                                                      es
                                                        tra
                                                         tto
STUDI MICENEI ED EGEO-ANATOLICI
NUOVA SERIE

SUPPLEMENTO 1



Paths into Script Formation
in the Ancient Mediterranean
edited by
Silvia Ferrara and Miguel Valério




                                    Edizioni Quasar
                                                                          es
                                                                            tra
                                                                             tto
STUDI MICENEI
ED EGEO-ANATOLICI
NUOVA SERIE
SUPPLEMENTO 1

è una pubblicazione del Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Roma

ISBN    978-88-7140-898-9


Direttore / Editor-in-chief
Anna D’Agata (CNR, Roma)




Undertaken with the assistance of
Institute for Aegean Prehistory (INSTAP), Philadelphia
*

Printed with the support of
Gerda Henkel Stiftung, Düsseldorf
*

The editors are grateful to Judith Weingarten for revising
the English of the original manuscript




Immagine di copertina / Cover illustration
Writing Travels the Sea, drawing by Miguel Valério based on signs
from the Cretan Hieroglyphic, Byblos and Anatolian Hieroglyphic scripts


Stampa e distribuzione / Printing and distribution
Edizioni Quasar di Severino Tognon s.r.l.
Via Ajaccio 41-43 – 00198 Roma
tel. +39 0685358444, fax +39 0685833591
email: info@edizioniquasar.it
www.edizioniquasar.it

© 2018 CNR - Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche
Autorizzazione Tribunale di Roma nr. 288/2014 del 31.12.2014
                                                                            es
                                                                              tra
                                                                               tto
SOMMARIO




Anna Lucia D’Agata
Preface                                                                         7
Silvia Ferrara, Miguel Valério
Introduction                                                                    9
Image-Bound Scripts at the Inception of Writing
1. Roeland P.-J.E. Decorte
The Origins of Bronze Age Aegean Writing: Linear A,
Cretan Hieroglyphic and a New Proposed Pathway of Script Formation             13
2. Mark Weeden
Hieroglyphic Writing on Old Hittite Seals and Sealings?
Towards a Material Basis for Further Research                                  51
Adaptations: Between Pictorialism and Schematism
3. Juan Pablo Vita, José Ángel Zamora
The Byblos Script                                                              75
4. Miguel Valério
Cypro-Minoan: An Aegean-derived Syllabary on Cyprus (and Elsewhere)           103
5. Javier de Hoz
The Southwestern Palaeo-Hispanic Script:
State of Knowledge, Hypotheses and Controversies                              129
6. Ignasi-Xavier Adiego
Local Adaptations of the Alphabet among the Non-Greek Peoples of Anatolia     145
7. Alex de Voogt
The Meroitic Writing System: Change and Variation                             163
Patterns and Diversity: A World of Possibilities
8. Gordon Whittaker
Aztec Hieroglyphic Writing: A Comparative Perspective                         173
9. Piers Kelly
The Invention, Transmission and Evolution of Writing:
Insights from the New Scripts of West Africa                                  189
                                                                                                                                   es
                                                                                                                                     tra
                                                                                                                                             tto
CHAPTER 3

THE BYBLOS SCRIPT

Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora


Summary
The discovery of the first pseudo-hieroglyphic inscription in 1929 in the city of Byblos (modern Jbeil, Lebanon) by Maurice
Dunand marks the beginning of the modern history of this type of inscriptions, the current corpus currently being made
up of about fifteen texts. Written in a pictographic signary, probably a syllabary and seemingly Egyptian-inspired, almost
one hundred different signs are attested. These inscriptions were all found in Byblos in unclear archaeological contexts (they
are usually dated from the early stages of the second millennium BC) and are incised on various supports. The area and
period of reference might suggest that the language used in these texts is Northwest Semitic, though no internal evidence
supports this claim. Yet, despite numerous efforts, the script must still be considered as undeciphered. Notwithstanding
all the difficulties attached to this epigraphic corpus, the pseudo-hieroglyphic script is highly significant for the history of
ancient writing. It reveals that local scripts other than Egyptian hieroglyphic and Mesopotamian cuneiform systems existed
in the Syro-Palestine area prior to or simultaneous with the first linear alphabet or alphabets. Syria-Palestine in the second
millennium BC thus appears to be a hotbed of disparate languages and scripts which fostered the development of new
systems. This chapter will review the history of research, the chronological issues, the morphology of signs and the layout
of lines, the direction of the script, punctuation marks, etc. An internal analysis of the script system will also be attempted,
with the due caveat that this is an undeciphered script recording an unknown language. We will examine the possible stems,
declension patterns, suffixes, logograms, etc. The ultimate purpose is not to identify the underlying language, but rather to
gain a greater understanding of how this script works.


INTRODUCTION
In the late 1920’s and early 1930’s a small group of texts, carved on a couple of metal tablets, some fragments of
stone stelae and several bronze spatulas, was discovered during Dunand’s archaeological excavations at Byblos (Fig.
1). They were written, probably in the second millennium BC, in a linear script usually called pseudo-hieroglyphic
of Byblos due to the resemblance of its signs, noticeably pictographic, to Egyptian hieroglyphs.
        Nevertheless, the designation ‘pseudo-hieroglyphic of Byblos’ poses some issues. While the geographi-
cal reference is quite appropriate to refer to the script known chiefly in pre-classical Byblos (though it is not
certain that the script actually originated in the city), the adjective ‘pseudo-hieroglyphic’ seems inferential
(as it a priori links its name to the Egyptian script)1 and unclear (it may apply to any, even non epigraphic,
hieroglyph-like element).2 Other possibly more accurate options, such as ‘Byblos syllabary’ (or the bolder
variant ‘Canaanite syllabary’), also presupposes conclusions on its functioning and/or historical use. The least
problematic designation given to this script consequently alludes exclusively to the place the documents were
mainly found: ‘the Byblos script’. While not entirely trouble-free3 when other terms could perhaps be more



1 As we shall see, the resemblance of the signs to Egyptian hieroglyphs actually originated the term. As a reference to a similar graphical
system, the term is equally inappropriate.
2 In archaeological literature the term “pseudo-hieroglyphic inscriptions” is used on some occasions to refer to those using Egyptian signs,
either imitating them or for purely decorative reasons, without conveying a coherent text.
3 The script dealt with here is not the only script attested in Byblos. In fact, the Greek name of the city is used to identify other scripts
and groups of documents such as the Phoenician inscriptions from the first millennium BC found at the site (as both the language and the
script used in these inscriptions constitute clearly differentiated variants within the Phoenician corpus). As a matter of fact, in that context,
“the Byblos script” would refer to the palaeographic variant of the Phoenician linear alphabet used in the city.

SMEA NS SUPPL. 1, 2018, 75-102
                                                                                                                            es
76 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                              tra
                                                                                                                                      tto
                       Byblos/Jbeil




Fig. 1. Map of Lebanon showing the location of modern Jbeil, ancient Byblos (on Google Maps) and aerial photograph of the city’s archaeo-
logical area (after Francis-Allouche, Grimal 2012, fig. 1).



appropriate,4 ‘the Byblos script’ will be the term used herein (we will refer to the sources as ‘documents in the
Byblos script’).
       This paper will produce a detailed account of the corpus in the Byblos script and of its features, its geograph-
ical and chronological framework, and the various theories regarding its formation. Finally, brief conclusions and
final considerations will be presented.


CORPUS OF TEXTS

Dunand’s inscriptions
The modern history of inscriptions goes back to 1929 when French archaeologist Maurice Dunand found the first
instance of this script during his eighth archaeological campaign at the ancient city of Byblos (modern Lebanon).
One year later Dunand published the find, a fragment of a stela engraved with an, until then, unknown script
(Dunand 1930).
       Later campaigns unveiled further inscriptions in the Byblos script. In 1945 Dunand published in one vol-
ume, Byblia Grammata, all the inscriptions found during his excavations at Byblos with the purpose of reaching
an improved knowledge of the origin and development of the alphabet. He gathered different types of inscriptions
from different periods, including ten inscriptions in the Byblos script. Following the order in which they were
found, he identified them with letters a to j. They consisted of four stelae (a, g, h, j), four spatulas (b, e, f, i) and
two bronze tablets (c, d).


4 Sznycer (1975, 82) suggested using the term “Gublite” to refer to this script, derived from the local name of the city, Gubla or Gebel.
The label “Gublian script” would indeed reduce misunderstandings since, in this way, ‘Byblos’ or Byblian’ would thus be used to refer
only to inscriptions from the first millennium BC (in accordance with the later Greek version of the name for the city beyond a mere
conventionalism). His proposal, however, has had little influence.
                                                                                                            es
                                                                                            The Byblos Script        77




                                                                                                              tra
                                                                                                                     tto
     A few years later Dunand published four further inscribed fragments of stelae, which he named from k to n
(Dunand 1978). In total, he located and published the fourteen texts in Byblos script presented herein.

Tablets
— Tablet c (Fig. 2)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 74-76.
Material: Bronze.
Number of lines: 15 (A: 13 + B: 2).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 225.
Number of diverse signs: 46 + 3.
Direction of text: From right to left. This is demonstrated by the fact that lines start right next to the right edge of
the piece and mostly finish before reaching the end of the left edge (including several consecutive lines, thus ruling
out the possibility of a boustrophedon text). Unlike the Mesopotamian practice, in order to read the reverse the
tablet needs to be turned on a theoretical vertical axis without inverting the obverse (as we would nowadays turn
the pages of a book).
Dividers: No division lines between lines. No dots, lines or division spaces between letters.
Material segmentation indicators: Lines that have blank beginnings or ends.




Fig. 2. Photograph and drawing of Tablet c (Dunand 1945, pl. IX, fig. 28).
                                                                                                                 es
78 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                   tra
                                                                                                                           tto
— Tablet d (Fig. 3)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 76-78.
Material: Bronze.
Number of lines: 41 (A: 22 + B: 19).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Approx. 457 + 3 numerals.
Number of diverse signs: 65 + 3.
Direction of text: From right to left. In this case, the reverse was read by turning the tablet on a theoretical horizontal
axis, turning the back upside down (that is, identical to Mesopotamian custom).
Dividers: No division lines between lines. No dots, lines or division spaces between letters.
Material segmentation indicators: Non-existent.




                                                                            Fig. 3. Photograph and drawing of Tablet d (Dunand
                                                                            1945, pl. X, fig. 29).
                                                                                                       es
                                                                                        The Byblos Script      79




                                                                                                         tra
                                                                                                               tto
Stelae
— Stela a (Fig. 4)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1930; 1945, 71-73.
Material: Limestone.
Number of lines: 10.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 123.
Number of diverse signs: 34 + 3.
Direction of text: From right to left.
Dividers: Text lines divided by horizontal lines.
Material segmentation indicators: Non-existent.




Fig. 4. Photograph and drawing of Stela
a (after Dunand 1945, pl. VIII, fig. 26).

— Stela g (Fig. 5)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 80-81.
Material: White limestone.
Number of columns: 6 (5 of them are textual in all certainty; the column on the right end is hardly visible).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 40.
Number of diverse signs: 18 + 3.
Direction of text: Judging by the bird-shaped sign in the first column (provided each sign is oriented as in other
inscriptions), the text should be read from right to left. The arrangement of signs into columns is reminiscent of
Egyptian practice, unlike the succession of signs following sequentially.
Dividers: Double division lines between columns, though apparently no dividers are used between signs.
Material segmentation indicators: Non-existent.




Fig. 5. Photograph and drawing of Stela g (after Dunand 1945,
pl. 11.g, fig. 32).
                                                                                                                 es
80 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                   tra
                                                                                                                           tto
— Stela h (Fig. 6)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 82.
Material: Stone, unspecified.
Number of lines: 4 (three of them certainly textual).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 7.
Number of diverse signs: 4 + 3.
Direction of text: From right to left (judging by the anepigraphic spaces on the left margin of lines).
Dividers: No dividers between signs. Text lines separated by horizontal lines.
Material segmentation indicators: Non-existent.




                                                                       Fig. 6. Photograph and drawing of Stela h (after Dunand
                                                                       1945, pl. XI.h, fig. 33).

— Stela j (Fig. 7)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 83-76. According to Dunand 1945, 83, it is highly likely that fragments h and j may
correspond to the same inscription.
Material: Limestone.
Number of lines: 4 preserved, though one of them, the first on the upper part, is scarcely visible.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Approx. 16.
Number of diverse signs: 10 + 3.
Direction of text: Presumably from right to left, as some lines do not cover all the space available on the left margin.
Dividers: Text lines separated by horizontal lines.
Material segmentation indicators: Dividers between letters; end of lines 2 and 4.




                                                                       Fig. 7. Photograph and drawing of Stela f (after Dunand
                                                                       1945, pl. XI.f, fig. 35).


— Stela k (Fig. 8)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1978, 51-53.
Material: Limestone.
Number of lines: 5.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 30.
Number of diverse signs: 18 + 1.
                                                                                                                es
                                                                                               The Byblos Script         81




                                                                                                                  tra
                                                                                                                         tto
Direction of text: Apparently from right to left (some lines do not cover all the space on the left).
Dividers: Possible divider between signs 4 and 5 of the fourth line. Unclear stroke between signs 1 and 2 of the fifth line.
Material segmentation indicators: The divider (provided it exists, as seems to be the case).




Fig. 8. Photograph and drawing of Stela k (after
Dunand 1978, pl. V, fig. 1).


— Stela l (Fig. 9)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1978, 53-56. See also Hoch 1995.
Material: Limestone.
Number of lines: 13.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Approx. 74.
Number of diverse signs: Approx. 51.
Direction of text: Probably from right to left, but cf. l. 12.
Dividers: Possible dividers between signs.
Material segmentation indicators: Unclear.




Fig. 9. Photograph and drawing of Stela l (after
Dunand 1978, pl. VI, fig. 2).

— Stela m (Fig. 10)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1978, 58.
Material: Limestone.
Number of lines: 3.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 14.
Number of diverse signs: 8.
Direction of text: From left to right (if, for instance, the orientation of sign      on the second line is analogous to
that of other preserved inscriptions).
                                                                                                                   es
82 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                     tra
                                                                                                                             tto
Dividers: Possible dividers between signs 2 and 3 on the first line and signs 3 and 4 on the second line.
Material segmentation indicators: Dividers.




                                         Fig. 10. Drawing of Stela m (after Dunand 1978, fig. 3).


— Stela n (Fig. 11)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1978, 58-59.
Material: Stone, unspecified.
Number of lines: 5. No noticeable signs on the first line, the most poorly preserved. No indication of a sixth line can
be noticed under the fifth preserved line.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Approx. 19.
Number of diverse signs: 18.
Direction of text: Probably from right to left (cf. for example sign on line 5).
Dividers: Possible divider after the second visible sign on the third line.
Material segmentation indicators: Unclear.




                                                                        Fig. 11. Photograph and drawing of Stela n (after Dunand
                                                                        1978, pl. VI, fig. 4).

Spatulas
— Spatula b (Fig. 12)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 73-74.
Material: Bronze.
                                                                                                                 es
                                                                                                The Byblos Script         83




                                                                                                                   tra
                                                                                                                          tto
Number of lines: 7 (A: 4 + B: 3).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 43 (39 + 4 dividers).
Number of diverse signs: 23 + 4 (dividers).
Direction of text: From right to left, as revealed, for instance, by the first sign on line 3, repeated on several occasions.
Dividers: No division lines between lines. Four dividers of sign sequences (on lines 1, 2, 3 and 6).
Material segmentation indicators: Beginning and end of text. Dividers on lines 1, 2, 3 and 6.




Fig. 12. Photograph and drawing of Spatula b (after Dunand
1945, pl. XIII.1, fig. 27).

— Spatula e (Fig. 13)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 78-79.
Material: Bronze.
Number of lines: 3 (A: 3 + B: 0).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): 17 (12 + 5 numbers).
Number of diverse signs: 11 + 1.
Direction of text: From right to left. Lines are laid out aligned from the right and end irregularly on the left. The last
two lines do not cover all the available space on the left margin.
Dividers: No division lines between lines. No division lines between signs.
Material segmentation indicators: Beginning and end of text. End of line 2 and beginning of 3.




Fig. 13. Photograph and drawing of Spatula
e (after Dunand 1945, pl. XII.e, fig. 30).


— Spatula f (Fig. 14)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 79-80.
Material: Bronze.
Number of lines: 7 (A: 3 + B: 4).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Approx. 50 (47 + 3 numbers).
Number of diverse signs: Approx. 28.
Direction of text: From right to left on side A, and from left to right on side B (where the orientation of some signs,
not all, is flipped horizontally), judging by the arrangement of the signs on the spatula.
Dividers: No division lines between lines. No clear division lines between letters.
Material segmentation indicators: Beginning and end of text; perhaps also the end of some lines.
                                                                                                              es
84 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                tra
                                                                                                                        tto
                                                                                 Fig. 14. Photograph and drawing of Spatula
                                                                                 f (after Dunand 1945, pl. XII.f, fig. 31).

— Spatula i (Fig. 15)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1945, 82.
Material: Bronze.
Number of lines: 9 (A: 4 + B: 5).
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Approx. 96.
Number of diverse signs: Approx. 36.
Direction of text: Apparently, from right to left. Lines start quite well aligned from the right and end irregularly on
the left. The last line does not cover all the space available on the left margin.
Dividers: No division lines between lines. Small vertical division lines between letters.
Material segmentation indicators: Dividers (in addition to the beginning and the end of the text).




                                                                                 Fig. 15. Photograph and drawing of Spatula
                                                                                 i (after Dunand 1945, pl. XII.i, fig. 34).


       Summing up, it could be claimed that while sign appearance and line arrangement may vary depending on
the surface (on bronze, strokes are simple and lines are horizontal; on stone, however, signs present double strokes,
and lines can also be arranged vertically), these sources reveal a remarkably homogenous script from a graphic view-
point. Its use seems also quite regular: while some spatulas present a different direction of text on each side, most
documents are written from right to left. Another significant feature is the use of word or word-group dividers in
some inscriptions (as in the Ugaritic alphabet or in the archaic Phoenician alphabet, and must therefore have ap-
plied also to the linear alphabet of the second millennium BC, at least in some of its versions). Moreover, while the
                                                                                                           es
                                                                                           The Byblos Script        85




                                                                                                             tra
                                                                                                                    tto
exact inventory of preserved signs of the Byblos script is yet to be established with certainty (and quite probably we
do not possess the complete repertoire), most estimates agree in its comprising no fewer than one hundred signs. It
therefore seems to consist of a syllabic or logosyllabic script.
        Furthermore, the core of the documents in the Byblos script originates, as already stated, in undetermined
locations within the city. Texts appear on a variety of surfaces which, besides affecting the shapes of the signs sig-
nificantly, reflect different uses of the objects themselves. In the absence of reliable chronological data, it is also
highly possible that the texts were produced in different periods. Likewise, it is apparent that a relatively high
number of scribes and etchers were involved. In fact, graphic variants are noted in the signs, possibly resulting
from one or several of the above circumstances. Yet it is nonetheless possible to identify clearly the same script
in all the inscriptions, a fact that provides some homogeneity to the corpus. Everything seems to suggest that
this script was regulated by well-defined rules and that its use was extensive and varied, at least in certain circles
at Byblos.
        Given the exhaustive excavation method deployed by Dunand at the site of ancient Byblos, a script with such
varied attestations could be expected to be more conspicuous. The limited number of documents found, however,
contradicts this expectations. The scarcity could mean that, contrary to what stated above, the Byblos script was
not actually widely used in the city or was used only for a short period of time. However, this does not necessarily
need to be the case: as it is well known, the extant documents do not directly attest to the overall use of the script
but only to its use on potentially durable material. As a matter of fact, the documents imply that such surfaces were
sought deliberately for text preservation, which indicates the existence of proper epigraphy in the Byblos script – in
other words, the development of a specific epigraphic tradition (as a monumental use of the script, intended as a
permanent link between a text and an object, or as the conscious creation of a lasting document).


OTHER TEXTS POSSIBLY WRITTEN IN THE BYBLOS SCRIPT

Texts in “Linear Pseudo-Hieroglyphic”
Besides the fourteen texts presented above, the corpus in the Byblos script may actually be larger. Dunand (1934)
also published an inscription on a stone block whose script he called “Linear Pseudo-Hieroglyphic” (cf. Dunand
1945, 135) (Fig. 16a). Moreover, the author considered that the morphology of the signs was close to that of the
earliest Phoenician alphabet, but similarities were even closer to the morphology of signs in the Byblos script. Ac-
cording to Dunand, it therefore consisted of a morphologically evolved and simplified Byblos script that was closer
to a purely linear tradition, though still related. Results later reached by Martin after directly examining the piece
reinforced these considerations. Martin identified new signs underneath the inscription published by Dunand
(who had already pointed out the presence of previous incisions under the better visible ones; indeed, deliberate
strokes can be noticed at least on the second line). Despite its poor condition, Martin claimed that these strokes
clearly corresponded to signs in the Byblos script from a previous inscription (Fig. 16b); the inscription could hence
be a palimpsest (Martin 1962a, 258-260; Röllig 1972-1975, 394):

— Stela in “Linear Pseudo-Hieroglyphic” (Fig. 16a-b)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1934, 567-571. See also Dunand 1945, 135-138.
Material: Limestone.
Number of lines: 3.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Ca. 22 + 2.
Number of diverse signs: Ca. 14-15.
Direction of text: From right to left (Dunand 1934, 568: “sens qui s’accommode le mieux de l’orientation des lettres
d’apparence phénicienne”).
                                                                                                                        es
86 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                          tra
                                                                                                                                  tto
Fig. 16a. Photograph and drawing of the block with “Linear Pseudo-Hieroglyphic” inscrip- Fig. 16b. Drawing of the block with “Linear
tion (after Dunand 1945, pl. XIVb, fig. 47).                                             Pseudo-Hieroglyphic” inscription (after Mar-
                                                                                         tin 1961, 69).



Dividers: Ruling between lines and possible dividers (vertical strokes) between signs: possible division mark on the
first line, at the beginning of the left edge of the damaged area, and on the second line (third from the right; cf.
Dunand 1934, 568).
Material segmentation indicators: No clear indicators.

Palimpsests
Martin published three other palimpsests in the same article, which consist of Phoenician texts incised over ancient
inscriptions originally written in the Byblos script, which had been erased, but were still noticeable in certain areas.
In particular, he identified a text written in the Byblos script on a spatula showing a Phoenician inscription on one
side (Dunand 1938, 99-107; KAI 3), and signs which Dunand already suggested could be ‘pseudo-hieroglyphic’ on
the other side (Fig. 17a). The text in the Byblos script, identified by Martin as a Semitic language, can be seen on
just one of the sides of the spatula (Fig. 17b) but, in Martin’s opinion, it possibly extended also to the other side,
where the Phoenician text was later incised (Martin 1961, 47-63; see also Sass 1988, 86-87):

— “Palimpsest” spatula (Fig. 17a-b)
Editio princeps: Dunand 1938, 99-107; Dunand 1945, 85-86.
Material: Bronze.
Number of lines: Underneath the Phoenician text, possible traces of several lines. On the other side, four probable lines.
Total number of signs (visible or partially visible): Underneath the Phoenician text, impossible to quantify. On the
other side, 15 to 20 in well preserved areas.
Number of diverse signs (visible or partially visible): Both underneath the Phoenician text and on the other side,
impossible to quantify.
Direction of text: Probably from right to left.
Dividers: No dividers between lines, impossible to trace dividers between signs.
Material segmentation indicators: No certain indications of text segmentation.
                                                                                                                              es
                                                                                                           The Byblos Script            87




                                                                                                                                tra
                                                                                                                                         tto
Fig. 17a. Photograph and drawing (side A) of “Palimpsest spatula”     Fig. 17b. Recent photographs of both sides (by J. Á. Zamora) and draw-
(Dunand 1945, pl. XIII.2, fig. 51).                                   ing of side A (after Martin 1961, fig. 4) of the “Palimpsest spatula”.



— The Yehimilk inscription as a palimpsest
Martin also noticed signs in the Byblos script underneath the Phoenician inscription of Yehimilk (Dunand 1930,
321-331, KAI 4) (Martin 1961, 63-67) (Fig. 18). These signs are indeed apparently visible at the end of some lines
wherever they are not covered by the Phoenician text. Furthermore, the obvious re-elaboration of the surface of the
stone block (division lines originally existing between the text lines are only partially preserved) does suggest the
existence of a previous inscription.5




Fig. 18. Recent photograph (by J.-Á. Zamora) and drawing
(after Martin 1961, fig. 6) of the inscription of Yehimilk.



5 The ruling between text lines (clearly reminiscent of those used in monumental Egyptian Hieroglyphic script) are incidentally a feature
of some Phoenician inscriptions from Byblos (such as the Yehimilk inscription) and do not appear in most of the inscriptions found outside
the city – therefore pointing to a continuity trait in terms of traditions already in use in the Byblos script (see n.7).
                                                                                                                                es
88 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                                  tra
                                                                                                                                           tto
— The Ahirom inscription as a palimpsest
Martin also saw signs in the Byblos script, nowadays more doubtfully identifiable, at the beginning of the inscrip-
tion on the Ahirom sarcophagus (KAI 1; Martin 1961, 70-76) (Fig. 19).6




                                                                                           Fig. 19. Recent photograph (by J.-Á. Zamora)
                                                                                           and drawing (after Martin 1961, fig. 8) of the
                                                                                           beginning of the inscription on the Ahirom sar-
                                                                                           cophagus.

Other possible inscriptions
More recently Colless (1996-1997, 45-55; 1998, 29-33) suggested that a series of inscriptions, which, up until
then, had not been satisfactorily interpreted, should be identified and read as texts written in the Byblos script.
These comprise: an inscription on a ring found in Megiddo;7 Sinai inscription 526; an inscription on an Egyptian
ostracon, and three inscriptions on lamps found in Egypt; one inscription on a clay tablet found in Trieste (Italy);
and an inscription on a scaraboid seal of unknown origin (Fig. 20).




                                                                                       Fig. 20. Drawings of inscriptions interpreted as writ-
                                                                                       ten in the Byblos script by Colless: a) Megiddo ring
                                                                                       (after Colless 1996-1997, 46); b) Sinai inscription
                                                                                       526 (after Colless 1996-1997, 47); c) Thebes ostra-
                                                                                       kon (after Colless 1998, 32); d) Lamp inscription 1
                                                                                       (after Colless 1996-1997, 51); e) Lamp inscription 2
                                                                                       (after Colless 1996-1997, 53); f ) Lamp inscription 3
                                                                                       (after Colless 1996-1997, 54); g) Scaraboid seal (af-
                                                                                       ter Colless 1998, 30); h) Trieste plaque (after Colless
                                                                                       1998, 31).


6 Regarding subjectivity in the identification of some of these signs, note the criticism by Sass 2005, 78: “Yet these underlying ‘pseudo-
hieroglyphic’ texts may well be a figment of Martin’s imagination: Not one of those who quoted Martin ever professed to have seen them
with their own eyes; nor was I able to make out these texts on the originals or their photographs”. However, the existence of signs of the
Byblos script seems clear, at least underneath the inscription of Yehimilk and on one of the sides of the spatula, which demonstrates, at the
very least, that one script succeeded the other at Byblos. The possible coexistence in use of both graphic systems poses more problems, as it
may only be deduced with certainty that the authors of the inscriptions in Phoenician knew the inscriptions in the Byblos script. We cannot
know whether they could read them and, if so, for how long they still preserved this knowledge.
7 Puech (1999) suggests reading the inscription on this ring as a purely alphabetic Semitic text. The inscription could bear the name of
the ring owner and his patronymic.
                                                                                                             es
                                                                                             The Byblos Script        89




                                                                                                               tra
                                                                                                                      tto
Finally, Garbini (apud Garbini, Luiselli, Devoto 2004, 377-381) proposed to identify as representing the Byblos
script an inscription on a cylindrical seal which, according to the author, could have originated from Byblos and
ought to be dated to the middle of the fourteenth century BC (Fig. 21). Its signs could be a simplified and sche-
matised version of Byblos signs.




Fig. 21. Photographs of inscriptions on the cylin-
der seal (after Garbini, Luiselli, Devoto 2004, fig.
2-4).

       Evidently, unlike the homogeneous group of fourteen inscriptions found in Byblos and published by Dunand
as proper Byblos script, and unlike the less clear inscriptions on the palimpsests, the texts proposed by Colless and
Garbini constitute a much more heterogeneous and problematic ensemble. Even if we were to accept their very
dubious identification as Byblos script, the differentiation and configuration of each of its signs, and their alleged
relationship with the graphic material extracted from the Byblos corpus, seem quite often – and at the very least –
highly speculative.


CONTEXT OF THE BYBLOS SCRIPT: SPACE AND TIME

Area of use of the Byblos script: Byblos centrality
Most of the inscriptions in the Byblos script originate in different locations at the site. The documents originating
outside Byblos and proposed as specimens of the Byblos script are few and highly dubious. This script may thus
only be considered with certainty to have been used within the city’s confines. Obviously, it cannot be discounted
that documents written in the Byblos script circulated over a wider area (all the more probable if we assume that
the material used for writing was perishable), but no direct or indirect evidence of this can be observed. This was
thus, in all likelihood, a local system, plausibly originating from Byblos itself, to record texts in the language of the
area. Nonetheless, the scarcity of available documents allows for no secure inferences.

Period of use of the Byblos script: The issue of chronology
The dating of the inscriptions in the Byblos script poses serious issues. For stratigraphical reasons, Dunand (1945,
87; cf. also 78, 131-132) did not consider any of the inscriptions in the Byblos script to be earlier than the 12th
Egyptian Dynasty, or later than the 18th Dynasty, thus placing them between 1900 and 1600 BC approximately.
This chronological horizon is accepted by a substantial number of scholars. Along these lines, after comparing the
morphology of its signs to the Egyptian Hieratic script, Posener (1969, 239) proposed dating the Byblos script to
the nineteenth century BC. Hoch (1990, 119), however, concluded that the comparison to the Egyptian Hieratic
script allowed for an even earlier date: it could have been developed between the Ancient and Middle Egyptian
Kingdoms, while the basic forms of the Byblos script could have been established before the 12th Dynasty.
       A different chronological clue, pointing to a later date, is provided by the spatula which features signs of
the Byblos script along with a Phoenician inscription (Dunand 1938, 99-107; 1945, 85-86, 155-157; KAI 3; see
above). The fact that the Phoenician inscription may be dated, according to some views, to the tenth century BC
                                                                                                                                es
90 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                                  tra
                                                                                                                                           tto
                                                             (KAI 3; Sass 1988, 87) or even later (Sass 2005, 54), has
                                                             led scholars to conclude that the Byblos script possibly
                                                             remained in use as late as the first decades of the ninth
                                                             century BC (Sass 1988, 86 with n. 58; 2005, 54).
                                                                     The date of the Phoenician inscription is, howev-
                                                             er, unclear as are the implications in dating the Byblos
                                                             script.8 While the spatula involves the physical associa-
                                                             tion on the same surface of two scripts, namely Byblos
                                                             and linear Phoenician, it is not clear whether they were
                                                             both simultaneously in use or whether the latter script
                                                             was used on this object, when its surface was no longer
                                                             legible. Should this be the case, although the piece must
                                                             have been in relatively good condition when it was etched
                                                             in Phoenician, it is not easily deduced how long before
                                                             it had been engraved in the Byblos script and when this
                                                             older system may have been abandoned.
                                                                     Moreover, the noticeable graphic variants in the
                                                             Byblos script and the existence of documents that might
                                                             be evidence of later stages or derivations of the script
                                                             (such as the inscription referred to by Dunand as “Lin-
                                                             ear Pseudo-Hieroglyphic”, see above) suggest a relatively
                                                             long period of use. The scarcity of documents, conversely,
                                                             could point to a limited lifespan, (because a short period
                                                             of use would theoretically explain why no more traces of
Fig. 22. First table of signs by Dunand 1930, 5.             the script remain). Yet we must not forget that the change
                                                             of the script from its specific everyday supports to monu-
mental or consciously chosen hard surfaces is exceptional for the Levant in the Bronze Age (Zamora 2006; 2007).
In that case, the scarcity of documents has no chronological relevance: the Byblos script may well have been used
for a significantly long period of time, mainly for practical purposes on probably perishable material, which would
have left few traces. This would explain, to a large extent, the limited but existent development of a local epigraphic
culture.


CHARACTERISTICS AND FORMATION OF THE BYBLOS SCRIPT
When the Byblos script was discovered, it was perceived as different from any other script known up until then, even
though its appearance, epigraphic technique and (likely logosyllabic) structure seemed quite familiar. It looked incised,
formed by an abundant though limited inventory of signs (thus excluding e.g. alphabetical systems, rather pointing to
a sort of syllabic script not different from the ones already known in the area); these, well defined, were linear though
potently pictographic, with similar shapes to the signs used in other graphic systems at the time in the area.
        In his edition of the Stela a, the first published text, Dunand (1930) pointed out that, in the condition it
was when it was recovered, the inscription displayed 119 certain signs, though three more could be conjectured. He
grouped these signs into 38 different classes as shown in fig. 22.



8 This is a question to be framed also within recent discussions on the chronology of the oldest instances of alphabetic script in the Levant.
See above all Sass (2005), who reduces the dates traditionally attributed to the oldest Phoenician inscriptions from Byblos, not without
rejections (see i.e. Rollston 2008). Confront with recent summary by Amadasi Guzzo (2014).
                                                                                                           es
                                                                                           The Byblos Script       91




                                                                                                             tra
                                                                                                                   tto
       He analysed their morphology and compared them to signs of other ancient scripts. He concluded that most
signs were remarkably hieroglyph-like, half way between Egyptian and Hittite hieroglyphs in their design. In terms
of shape and orientation, between seven and nine signs were, according to Dunand, practically identical to archaic
Phoenician signs, while fifteen corresponded to similar signs in the Egyptian Hieroglyphic script. The remaining
ten signs were without corresponding parallels in either of these two writing systems.
       In 1945, Dunand (1945, 88-131) undertook a renewed, extensive and meticulous analysis of the signs in
the ten texts in the Byblos script he had published. He concluded that these texts presented a total of 114 different
signs, which still fell short of a complete system. He grouped them into different categories depending on the class
of object they seemed to depict: A – animals, B – vegetables, C – sky, water, D – buildings, E – tools, F – cult, G –
geometrical shapes, H – unidentified objects, I – uncertain signs (Fig. 23a).




Fig. 23a. Expanded and classified table of signs by Dunand 1945, 88-89.


         He next looked for purely formal equivalences in scripts from different times and places (Fig. 23b). Thus, he
compared sign 1 to a sign on the Phaistos Disc, sign 14 to signs in Phoenician, Cretan and even Chinese scripts,
sign 15 to a sign in Phoenician and South Arabian alphabets and also to a Sinaitic sign, he also compared sign 16
to an Anatolian hieroglyphic sign, etc.
         Nevertheless, the author was well aware that this type of purely formal and external comparisons was of
little significance, admitting that most of these parallels should be considered merely fortuitous (Dunand 1945,
                                                                                                                               es
92 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                                 tra
                                                                                                                                         tto
122-131). When dealing with the Proto-Sinaitic script, for instance, he contended that both this and the Byblos
script must be understood as two parallel and independent scripts, though with a common origin: the Egyptian
Hieroglyphic script. Dunand believed that some of the signs in the Byblos script bore what he called “striking”
similarities to Egyptian hieroglyphs. Such similarities, according to the author, were even greater when compared
to Hieratic signs. In total, these similarities would apply to about 50 signs in the Byblos script, 25 of which would
have been extracted directly from the Egyptian Hieroglyph repertoire (Fig. 23b).




Fig. 23b. Tables by Dunand 1945, 122-123 comparing signs in the Byblos script (“hiéroglyphes phéniciens” or “signes phéniciens”) to Mi-
noan signs (left) and to Egyptian hieroglyphs and hieratic signs (right). Below, signs in the Byblos script directly extracted from Egyptian
hieroglyphs.



        In conclusion, Dunand contributed two key notions which have served as the basis for a number of later
analyses concerning the Byblos script. On the one hand, the fact that the script had been elaborated under the di-
rect influence of Egyptian hieroglyphs and Hieratic signs; on the other hand, the fact that the system of the Byblos
script could have been the source of Phoenician alphabetic signs (Dunand 1945, 130-131).
        Later, Martin (1962a; 1962b) revised Dunand’s proposal and conducted his own analysis of the signs. His
was an internal analysis of the Byblos script itself, without comparing it to any other writing systems. He first pro-
posed the following classification: 1. bird, 2. insect, 3. snake, 4. fish, 5. ox-head, 6. head (frontal), 7. head (lateral),
8. eye, 9. mouth, 10. hand, 11. hand, bough, 12. human figure, 13. tree, prop, 14. plant, stick, 15. blossom, 16.
crooked staff, 17. twisted rope, 18. cruciform, 19. building, monument, 20. courtyard, house, 21. door, 22. masse-
bah (“pillar, memorial stone”), 23. angle, 24. star, 25. hill-country, 26. water, 27. numerals (Martin 1962a, 261). In
his later analysis, he concluded that all the signs could actually be grouped into 26 fundamental classes (Fig. 24),
to which a final group could be added comprising signs with a numeral function (Martin 1962b, 350). A number
of variants could be identified within each group which he defined as “a sign which results from the addition of a
stroke to a fundamental type and whose function in the script is thereby modified”.
                                                                                                         es
                                                                                         The Byblos Script       93




                                                                                                           tra
                                                                                                                 tto
Fig. 24. Martin’s classification of the signs in the Byblos script (1962b).


        As Daniels (1996, 30) points out, “[i]t is clear from the descriptions attached and from certain remarks in
the text that he was trying to make the script into an ordinary alphabet (i.e. abjad). The absence of further publi-
cations suggests that the attempt was not successful”.
        As explained above, Dunand stressed the
noticeable influence of Egyptian Hieroglyphic and
Hieratic on the Byblos script. Several Egyptologists
have pursued this line of thinking. Posener (1969),
for instance, investigated the problem of the formal
relationships between the Byblos and Egyptian Hier-
atic scripts. After analysing certain signs (Fig. 25), he
concluded on the basis of palaeographical features of
Hieratic that the terminus ante quem for the formation
of the Byblos script could be set in the nineteenth
century BC.



Fig. 25. Comparison with Hieratic signs, as suggested by Po-
sener 1969.
                                                                                                                           es
94 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                             tra
                                                                                                                                     tto
                                                                                                Next, Hoch (1990,
                                                                                         116) claimed that, as Mend-
                                                                                         enhall (1985) had already
                                                                                         suggested, the acrophonic
                                                                                         principle was a regular fea-
                                                                                         ture in the Byblos script,
                                                                                         whose signs could derive
                                                                                         both from Egyptian Hiero-
                                                                                         glyphic and Hieratic signs.
                                                                                         Some signs could have been
                                                                                         borrowed directly from the
                                                                                         Egyptian Hieroglyphic rep-
                                                                                         ertoire, others were possi-
                                                                                         bly of the same origin but
                                                                                         with considerable modifica-
                                                                                         tions, and finally other signs
                                                                                         could have been sourced
                                                                                         from Egyptian signs and
                                                                                         afterwards subjected to sig-
                                                                                         nificant adaptations. Again
                                                                                         according to Hoch, most of
                                                                                         these Byblos signs of alleged
                                                                                         Egyptian origin or back-
                                                                                         ground would have been ro-
                                                                                         tated with regard to the usual
                                                                                         Egyptian orientation. Other
                                                                                         signs in the Byblos script,
                                                                                         however, constituted local
                                                                                         innovations (Hoch 1990,
                                                                                         116-117; Zauzich 2015, 18)
Fig. 26a. Analysis of signs in the Byblos script by Hoch 1990, 115-118.                  (Fig. 26a).
                                                                                         Hoch also highlighted the
graphic closeness between some signs in the Byblos script and signs in alphabetic “Proto-Sinaitic” inscriptions
(Hoch 1990, 119) and proposed the identification of several signs in the Byblos script with signs in later linear
alphabetic systems (Hoch 1990, 120). He also suggested that some of the signs which were not incorporated into
the Canaanite alphabet reappeared, however, in the much later Old South Arabic (Sabaean) and Ethiopic scripts
(Hoch 1990, 120). The author concludes that “the remains of the Byblian syllabary formed the core of the Semitic
linear alphabets” (Fig. 26b).
        Other scholars later continued to explore the two key notions put forward by Dunand: 1) at least some of
the signs in the Byblos script are heavily influenced by the Egyptian script, and 2) these signs are the origin of some
of the signs in later Semitic alphabetic systems. This is the idea underlying the reconstruction of the Byblos script
suggested by Colless (1998, 34-35) (Fig. 27), a script he refers to as “Canaanite syllabary”.9



9 According to Colless (1998, 36-38): “The Canaanite syllabary could be described as a vocalic script, in that it shows the vowels along
with the consonants […] is a simple monosyllabic script, with a much smaller signary than Egyptian hieroglyphic writing or Babylonian
cuneiform writing […] it is a logo-syllabary, such that a sign can stand for the word it represents as well as a syllable”.
                                                                                                                               es
                                                                                                            The Byblos Script            95




                                                                                                                                 tra
                                                                                                                                          tto
Fig. 26b. Comparison of signs in the Byblos script to Proto-Sinaitic signs, Canaanite signs and Old South Arabic signs by Hoch 1990, 119-121.




Fig. 27. Reconstruction of the graphic system in the Byblos script by Colless 1998, 34-35.
                                                                                                         es
96 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                           tra
                                                                                                                    tto
                                        Fig. 28a. Comparison of signs in the Byblos script to Egyptian and Creatan
                                        (sic) signs according to Woudhuizen 2007, 750-751.



                                               Woudhuizen, in turn, proposes a series of correspond-
                                        ences between signs in the Byblos script and Egyptian hiero-
                                        glyphs, adding some possible correspondences with Cretan
                                        Hieroglyphic and Linear A signs (Fig. 28a). He also suggests
                                        some writing variants for a series of signs in the Byblos script
                                        (Fig. 28b). Nevertheless, as is also the case with other authors
                                        (Mendenhall, Colless, Garbini), his highly speculative approach
                                        results in unacceptable translations – both from philological
                                        and historical perspectives.
                                               More recently, other Egyptologists have briefly reassessed
                                        the Byblos script. According to Morenz (2011, 251-252), as
                                        also proposed by other scholars before him (see above), some of
                                        the signs in the Byblos script may derive from Egyptian signs
                                        through acrophony. Later on, the same principle could have
                                        been operating to facilitate the transfer of some of the Byblos
                                        signs onto linear alphabets (Fig. 29). In comparison to the
                                        Egyptian Hieroglyphic script, Morenz points out the limited
                                        number of signs representing birds, as well as the lack of rep-


                                        Fig. 28b. Writing variants of the graphic system in the Byblos script according
                                        to Woudhuizen 2007, 756.
                                                                                                                               es
                                                                                                            The Byblos Script           97




                                                                                                                                 tra
                                                                                                                                         tto
Fig. 29. Acrophony, Egyptian origin and Canaanite derivation of the Byblos script according Fig. 30. Signs in the Byblos script, their rela-
to Morenz 2011, 251-252.                                                                    tion with Egyptian signs and their acrophon-
                                                                                            ic value, according to Zauzich 2015, 124.




resentation of the human body. In general, the Byblos script could be much more abstract than the later Canaanite
linear script and the Egyptian Hieroglyphic script itself. He also suggests the possibility that the prestige of the
Egyptian script could have been at the same time the prompt for the creation, and the root of the obsolescence of
the Byblos script itself.
       Zauzich (2015, 17-18, 122-125) also suggests the possibility that acrophony may have operated (Fig. 30),
but puts more emphasis on the possibility that almost all the signs in the older Phoenician alphabet may have an
equivalent sign in the Byblos script.
       In conclusion, comparisons that are strictly graphic have led researchers to seek the origin and inspiration
for the Byblos script in the Egyptian (Hieroglyphic, but also Hieratic) scripts, though a precise chronological
framework and reconstruction has not yet been established. Furthermore, graphic similarities (particularly in light
of documents taken as intermediate between the properly Byblos script and the Phoenician alphabet) have prompt-
ed – with more difficulties – the suggestion that the Byblos script represented the first step in the creation of the
Northwestern Semitic linear alphabet. Nonetheless, in both cases, difficulties arise when attempts to tie the script to
a graphic tradition and understand its formation process become mixed with efforts at deciphering it. These efforts
have proved to be ridden with uncertainties.
                                                                                                                                es
98 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                                  tra
                                                                                                                                           tto
       The plausible hypotheses guiding both the study of graphic formation and any attempts at reading this script
consist of presupposing on the one hand a syllabic system created by some sort of reinterpretation of the Egyptian
system in a Northwestern Semitic linguistic context, and, on the other, an alphabetic derivation somehow based
on acrophony which eventually could have resulted in the linear alphabet that later became standard. But given the
scarce or dubious results reached by various decipherment proposals, the hypotheses on the creation and develop-
ment of the graphic system have not found solid material to be supported.

CONCLUSIONS AND FINAL CONSIDERATIONS

The Byblos script, an undeciphered graphic system
Indeed, any attempt at reconstructing the Byblos script formation process must be assessed bearing in mind the
almost total lack of certainties in terms of attributing phonetic values to its signs and even a basic understanding of
how it worked. It must be accepted that despite numerous efforts,10 this undeciphered script conceals a language yet
to be identified.11 Further attestations (alas, quite unlikely) may probably be needed to achieve such decipherment,
either in the form of a significant increase in the number of available texts to facilitate the successful application of
statistic methods, or through the appearance of bilingual or parallel texts allowing for more solid conventional ap-
proaches. Besides, advances in the understanding of other graphic systems in the area could contribute to integrate
the available documentation within a broader and better known framework, thus leading to the cogent reading of
the texts in the Byblos script, and fostering the formulation of new and better-grounded hypotheses.12

The corpus: Characteristics and implications
Therefore, we can only establish more or less solid starting points from which we can draw some reasonable con-
clusions in the light of our current knowledge. The Byblos script is attested on a very small number of documents.
Those belonging to the proper corpus originate in just one place, the ancient city of Byblos. The variety of objects
engraved with this script, whose morphology and sign ductus feature variants, suggests that it was used for diverse
purposes and genres, perhaps throughout a significantly long period of time. Yet, the core of the extant documents
does reveal the kind of homogeneity that could be attributed to a well defined, regularly used script. It would appear
that the graphic system was extensively and variously used for some time at least in some circles in the city of By-
blos – probably amongst (some of ) its scribes. It must have been mainly used for ordinary matters on non-preserved
supports, only leaving behind remains of what seem to be proper epigraphic – and probably exceptional – uses.
        Indeed the use of a script on surfaces other than those commonly used seems to have been exceptional in the
Bronze Age Levant, where local graphic systems seem to have been particularly used, above all, for practical, daily
purposes, being only rarely preserved on hard supports and seldom applied to purely epigraphic practices and gen-
res13. All this, together with the number and variety of documents in the Byblos script, is totally compatible with a
regular use for a significant period of time. Used mainly for practical purposes on probably perishable material,14 as


10 See above all the analyses by Dunand 1930; 1945; Hrozny 1944; Dhorme 1946; Sobelman 1961; Mendenhall 1985; Colless 1992;
1993; 1994; 1995; 1996-1997; 1998; Woudhuizen 2007; Best 2008; Best, Rietveld 2010; Garbini 2009a; 2009b. See, more in general, the
history of investigation presented by Sznycer 1994; Israel 2003; Van de Sande 2004.
11 This is an opinion shared by a large number of scholars: see, for instance, Röllig 1972-1975, 394; Lipiński 1993, 363; Daniels 1996, 29-30;
Woodard 2004, 6; 2008, 2; Huehnergard 2008, 580; Charaf 2014, 446. See, as a recent summary, the considerations by Amadasi Guzzo 2014, 72;
cf. also n. 17: “les différentes tentatives entreprises dernièrement ne me semblent pas avoir résolu le problème de cette écriture”.
12 Unfortunately, chances of fully deciphering the Byblos script seem remote. See also the considerations made by Daniels 1996, 141-142,
or Hackett 2002, 66.
13 Compare, for instance, to the case of Ugarit, Zamora 2006; 2007.
14 This is probably papyrus, in light of the intense relations between Byblos and Egypt and the privileged use of this material in the Nile
valley. The city of Byblos became the great centre of the papyrus trade in the eastern Mediterranean at least from the first millennium BC, a
fact which explains that the name of the city was the origin, as is well known, of the Greek word for ‘book’ (byblos).
                                                                                                                                  es
                                                                                                               The Byblos Script            99




                                                                                                                                    tra
                                                                                                                                             tto
the possible existence of cursive features in some sign variants indicates, only a very small percentage of potentially
preservable texts might have existed (of which, even a smaller percentage could have been preserved, discovered
and identified).

Space and time: Byblos in the second millennium BC as the place of birth and use of the Byblos script
The local urban use and the context of the Bronze Age appear to be the space and time framework in which we
should set the inception and use of the Byblos script, as can be concluded from the available material evidence. As
regards the geographical framework, Byblos clearly played a central role in terms of written documents. Lack of
evidence precludes us from considering a potential widespread use outside the city, although this option certainly
may not be discarded. Moreover, further data make Byblos the ideal place where the graphic system could have
been born and developed.
        Byblos’ relationship with writing was indeed prolonged and intense. The Egyptian Hieroglyphic script was
well known there at least from the middle of the third millennium BC (Helck 1974; Redford 1992, 41) and all
clues indicate that in the ensuing millennium, scribes in the city, or scribes who frequented it, were able to use it.
The tradition of Mesopotamian writing was also well known in Byblos from a very early period, as finds at the site
and testimonies in the Amarna and Ugarit archives confirm.15
        These documents demonstrate that the syllabic cuneiform script was known in Byblos by the third millenni-
um BC and regularly in use in the city, at least in compiling international documents until the thirteenth century
BC.16 The scribes in Byblos in the Bronze Age must have therefore been accustomed to several scripts linked to
different languages and regularly exposed to their underpinnings. In this context, it is hardly surprising that, for still
unknown reasons (such as administrative purposes or suitability to record cultic texts), scribes in Byblos felt at some
point the need to also record their own language in writing and that, in order to do so, instead of adapting a foreign
script they had already mastered, which was linked to a specific foreign language, they chose to develop their own.17

The second millennium BC as the period of development and use of writing in the Byblos script
The Bronze Age, namely the second millennium BC, seems to be the most plausible chronological framework
where the origin and use of the Byblos script ought to be set. In spite of the challenging issues in terms of dating,
this is the period indicated by the archaeological context where the documents were found (as far as Dunand’s con-
clusions on stratigraphy are based on reliable excavation techniques) and by the graphic relationships between the
Byblos script and the Egyptian (despite the fact that the particulars of such correlations continue to be debated).
        The precise moment when the Byblos script system was created and how long it was in operation can not be
easily determined, although it would appear that this period must not have been specific or limited, as the attested
variants seem to indicate some diachronic development. The attestation of documents where the Byblos script
appears to be supplanted by archaic versions of the Phoenician linear alphabet prompts further considerations as
to its demise. While some of these scripts must not have been chronologically distant, and may even have existed
simultaneously at some stage, the Byblos script could have preceded the Phoenician until the Phoenician eventually
prevailed in the late Bronze Age across the Levant, including Byblos. Perhaps the Byblian epigraphic culture main-
tained some of the features of the previous local tradition, all the same.


15 In the same excavation site that was explored by Dunand, a cuneiform school text from the third millennium BC was found. See
Dossin 1969; Klengel 1992, 32.
16 It should also be recalled that Byblos is the place where the oldest monumental inscriptions using the Phoenician alphabet were found
(KAI 1-8), which supports the hypothesis that its linear precedents in the second millennium BC were also extensively used. See below.
17 This also happened, possibly soon afterwards, to the eventually triumphant linear alphabet, seemingly used from the beginning to
record in writing the local languages in the Levant. In this respect, it is relevant to mention the case of Ugarit where this alphabet adapts to
the cuneiform technique in order to register texts in the local language (almost never using the syllabic cuneiform, mastered by scribes in
Ugarit, to record the Ugaritic language). Even in cases where the surface was different, they favoured the script linked to the local language,
rather than use the script linked to a different language. See again Zamora 2006; 2007.
                                                                                                                           es
100 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                             tra
                                                                                                                                     tto
       Graphic relationships between signs in the Byblos script and alphabetic signs (and the obvious geographical
continuity) have repeatedly led scholars to suggest, as explained above, that that relation could somehow also imply
development; that is, that the linear alphabetic script could have originated in the probably syllabic Byblos script.
In fact, beyond the comparison of the signs in both scripts, the only material support for this hypothesis is the ex-
istence of documents which could be interpreted as intermediate stages of such a development. But these possible
intermediate steps are in fact few and obscure and, once more, attempts at producing a precise interpretation of this
development have not yielded solid conclusions.

The formation of the Byblos script
The most commonly supported hypothesis to explain the genesis of the Byblos script, namely the Egyptian inspira-
tion or derivation of, at least, the morphology of a substantial number of its signs, is therefore well at home in the
historical context of Byblos in the second millennium BC, not least in light of the intense and continuous relations
between the city and Egypt at that time.18 However, the specific process, or the precise moment (or moments),
when it may have taken place remains unclear.
       In fact, strictly speaking, we cannot affirm that the relationship between the signs of the Byblos script and
those of the Egyptian scripts was exclusive, or that there was necessarily a direct transmission between the two sys-
tems as we know them. Overall, we are once more confronted with the paradox that the most reasonable hypothesis
(the creation of a local system in Byblos, most probably syllabic, originating on the knowledge of the Egyptian
scripts to record a Northwestern Semitic language in the second millennium BC) does not yield more convincing
decipherment proposals. We can only hope that closer integration in the studies on the Byblos script and further
research on the formation processes of scripts in the ancient Mediterranean may open up new and more fruitful
routes.

Abbreviations
KAI    Donner H., Röllig W. 2002, Kanaanäische und aramäische Inschriften, 5th edition, Wiesbaden.

References
Acquaro E., Mazza F., Ribichini S., Scandone G., Xella P. 1994, Biblo. Una città e la sua cultura, Rome.
Amadasi Guzzo M.G. 2014, ‘Alphabet insaisissable’. Quelques notes concernant la diffusion de l’écriture consonantique,
   Transeuphratène 44, 67-86.
Best J. 2008, Breaking the Code of the Byblos Script, UgaritF 40, 129-133.
Best J., Rietveld, L. 2010, Structuring Byblos Tablets c and d, UgaritF 42, 15-40.
Charaf H. 2014, The Northern Levant (Lebanon) during the Middle Bronze Age, in Steiner M.L., Killebrew A.E. (eds), The
   Oxford Handbook of the Archaeology of the Levant c. 8000-332 BCE, Oxford, 434-450.
Colless B.E. 1992, The Byblos Syllabary and the Proto-Alphabet, Abr-Nahrain 30, 55-102.
Colless B.E. 1993, The Syllabic Inscriptions of Byblos: Text D, Abr-Nahrain 31, 1-35.
Colless B.E. 1994, The Syllabic Inscriptions of Byblos: Texts C and A, Abr-Nahrain 32, 59-79.
Colless B.E. 1995, The Syllabic Inscriptions of Byblos: Texts B, E, F, I, K, Abr-Nahrain 33, 17-29.
Colless B.E. 1996-1997, The Syllabic Inscriptions of Byblos: Miscellaneous Texts, Abr-Nahrain 34, 42-57.
Colless B.E. 1998, The Canaanite Syllabary, Abr-Nahrain 35, 28-46.
Daniels P.T. 1996, The First Civilizations, in Daniels P. T., Bright W. (eds), The World’s Writing Systems, New York-Oxford,
   21-32.
Dhorme É. 1946-1948, Déchiffrement des inscriptions pseudo-hiéroglyphiques de Byblos, Syria 25, 1-35.



18 On the relations between Byblos and Egypt (which began much earlier and went on much later) see for instance Redford 1992; Helck
1974; 1994; Morenz 2011, 253-254. Regarding the history of pre-classical Byblos, see for instance Acquaro et al. 1994; Klengel 1992. Cf.
Elayi 2009 for the first millennium BC and, more generally, Jidejian 1968.
                                                                                                                        es
                                                                                                     The Byblos Script          101




                                                                                                                          tra
                                                                                                                                  tto
Dossin G. 1969, Trois inscriptions cunéiformes de Byblos, MUSJ 45, 243-255.
Dunand M. 1930, Nouvelle inscription découverte à Byblos, Syria 11, 1-10.
Dunand M. 1945, Byblia Grammata. Documents et recherches sur le développement de l’écriture en Phénicie, Beirut.
Dunand M. 1978, Nouvelles inscriptions pseudo-hiérogliphiques découvertes à Byblos, Bulletin du Musée de Beyrouth 30, 51-59.
Elayi J. 2009, Byblos, citée sacrée (8e-4e s. av. J.-C.), Paris.
Février J.G. 1950, Les écritures, in Pirot L. (ed.), Supplément au Dictionnaire de la Bible 5, 299-317.
Francis-Allouche F., Grimal N. 2012, “Byblos et la Mer.” Rapport préliminaire de la 1ère campagne, Beyrouth. Available at
    https://www.academia.edu/4173349/FRANCISALLOUCHE_M._GRIMAL_N._Byblos_et_la_mer_Rapport_
    pr%C3%A9liminaire_de_la_1%C3%A8re_campagne_2012
Garbini G. 2009a, Decifrazione e origine della scrittura ‘pseudo-geroglifica’ di Biblo, in La scrittura nel Vicino Oriente antico,
    Milan, 37-61.
Garbini G. 2009b, Avvio alla lettura delle iscrizioni ‘pseudo-geroglifiche’ di Biblo, Atti della Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei,
    Rendiconti Classe di Scienze Morali, Storiche e Filologiche, s. 9, 20, 233-273.
Garbini G., Luiselli M.M., Devoto G. 2004, Sigillo di età amarniana da Biblo con iscrizione, Atti della Accademia Nazionale
    dei Lincei, Rendiconti Classe di Scienze Morali, Storiche e Filologiche, s. 9, 15, 377-392.
Hackett J.A. 2002, The Study of Partially Documented Languages, in Izre’el Sh. (ed.), Semitic Linguistics: The State of the Art
    at the Turn of the Twenty-First Century, Winona Lake, 57-75.
Helck W. 1974, Byblos, in Helck, W., Eberhard, O. (eds), Lexikon der Ägyptologie 1/6, 889-891.
Helck W. 1994, Byblos und Ägypten, in Acquaro E., Mazza F., Ribichini S., Scandone G., Xella P. (eds), Biblo. Una città e la
    sua cultura, Rome, 105-111.
Hoch J.E. 1990, The Byblos Syllabary: Bridging the Gap between Egyptian Hieroglyphs and Semitic Alphabet, SSEAJ 20,
    115-124.
Hoch J.E. 1995, Egyptian Hieratic Writing in the Byblos Pseudo-hieroglyphic Stele L, Journal of the American Research Center
    in Egypt 32, 59-65 .
Hrozny B. 1944, Die hieroglyphische Stele von Byblos, ArOr 15, 138-157.
Huehnergard J. 2008, Languages of the Ancient Near East, in Doob Sakenfeld K. (ed.), The New Interpreter’s Dictionary of the
    Bible, vol. 3, Nashville, 576-580.
Israel F. 2003, Studi prefenici I: Le iscrizioni pseudogeroglifiche di Biblos: A) Documentazione bibliografica, in González
    A., Vita J.-P., Zamora J.-Á. (eds), De la tablilla a la inteligencia artificial. Homenaje al Prof. Jesús Luis Cunchillos en su 65
    aniversario, Zaragoza, 365-373.
Jidejian N. 1968, Byblos through the Ages, Beirut.
Klengel H. 1992, Syria 3000 to 300 B.C., Berlin.
Lipiński E. 1993, Pseudo-hiérogyphes giblites, in Lipiński E., Baurain C., Bonnet C., Debergh J., Gubel E., Krings V. (eds),
    Dictionnaire de la civilisation phénicienne et punique, Turnhout, 363.
Martin M. 1961, A Preliminary Report after Re-Examination of the Byblian Inscriptions, Orientalia 30, 46-78.
Martin M. 1962a, Revision and Reclassification of the Proto-Byblian Signs, Orientalia 31, 250-271.
Martin M. 1962b, Revision and Reclassification of the Proto-Byblian Signs (Continued), Orientalia 31, 339-363.
Mendenhall G.E. 1985, The Syllabic Inscriptions from Byblos, Beirut.
Morenz L.D. 2011, Die Genese der Alphabetschrift: Ein Markstein ägyptisch-kanaanäischer Kulturkontakte (Wahrnehmungen
    und Spuren Altägyptens 3), Würzburg 2011.
Posener G. 1969, Sur les inscriptions pseudo-hiéroglyphiques de Byblos, in Fleisch H. (ed.), Mélanges offerts à Maurice Dunand,
    vol. I, Beirut, 223-239.
Puech É. 1999, Un anneau inscrit du Bronze Récent à Megiddo, in Chazan R., Hallo W.W., Schiffman L.H. (eds), Ki Baruch
    Hu. Ancient Near Eastern, Biblical and Judaic Studies in Honor of Baruch A. Levine, Winona Lake, 51-61.
Redford D.B. 1992, Egypt, Canaan, and Israel in Ancient Times, Princeton.
Röllig W. 1972-1975, Hierogyphen von Byblos, in Reallexikon der Assyriologie 4, 393-394.
Sass B. 2005, The Alphabet at the Turn of the Millennium, Tel Aviv.
Sznycer M. 1975, Les inscriptions pseudo-hiéroglyphiques de Byblos, in Leclant J. (ed.), Le déchiffrement des écritures et des
    langues, Paris, 75-84.
Sznycer M. 1994, Les inscriptions ‘pseudo-hiéroglyphiques’ de Byblos, in Acquaro E., Mazza F., Ribichini S., Scandone G.,
    Xella P. (eds), Biblo. Una città e la sua cultura, Rome, 167-178.
                                                                                                                        es
102 Juan-Pablo Vita, José-Ángel Zamora




                                                                                                                          tra
                                                                                                                                  tto
Van de Sande A. 2008, Les pséudo-hiéroglyphes de Byblos. Bibliographie et remarques générales, Res Antiquae 5, 465-470.
Woodard R.D. 2004, Introduction, in Woodard R.D. (ed.), The Cambridge Encyclopedia of the World’s Ancient Languages,
   Cambridge, 1-18.
Woodard R.D. 2008, Language in Ancient Syria-Palestine and Arabia: an introduction, in Woodard R.D. (ed.), The Ancient
   Languages of Syria-Palestine and Arabia, Cambridge, 1-4.
Woudhuizen F.C. 2007, On the Byblos Script, UgaritF 39, 689-756.
Zamora J.-Á. 2006, Les utilisations de l’alphabet lors du IIe millénaire av. J.-C. et le développement de l’épigraphie alphabétique :
   une approche à travers la documentation ougaritique en dehors des tablettes (II), in Del Olmo G., Feliu Ll., Millet A. (eds),
   Šapal tibnim mû illakū. Studies Presented to Joaquín San­martín on the Occasion of His 65th Birthday, Saba­dell-Barcelona,
   491-528.
Zamora J.-Á. 2007, Les utilisations de l’alphabet lors du IIe millénaire av. J.-C. et le développement de l’épigraphie alphabétique :
   une approche à travers la documentation ougaritique en dehors des tablettes (I), in Michaud J.-M. (ed.), Le royaume
   d’Ougarit de la Crète à l’Éuphrate. Nouveaux axes de recherche, Sherbrooke, 9-47.
Zauzich K.-T. 2015, Hieroglyphen mit Geheimnis. Neue Erkenntnisse zur Entstehung unseres Alphabets, Darmstadt.

Juan-Pablo Vita
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC)
Instituto de Lenguas y Culturas del Mediterráneo y Oriente Próximo (ILC)
Calle Albasanz, 26-28,
28037 Madrid
Spain
 juanpablo.vita@cchs.csic.es

José-Ángel Zamora
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC)
Instituto de Lenguas y Culturas del Mediterráneo y Oriente Próximo (ILC)
Calle Albasanz, 26-28,
28037 Madrid
Spain
joseangel.zamora@cchs.csic.es
                                              es
                                                tra
                                                 tto




Finito di stampare nel mese di ottobre 2018
 presso Global Print srl – Gorgonzola (MI)
