Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


I 


/>/ 


I 


'A 


'^T^^^^^'^m 


«<*«*"|*i*#f*J 


/*.'■••    '  "^ 


HhUbMh 


M^^»^^  I  <^     Mi     I 


THE  NEW  YORK  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 
RBFBRBNGB  DBPARTMBNT 


J 


This  book  !•  under  no  oiroumstsnoet  to  be 
teken  from  the  Building 


;  JUN  i  6  „^, 


for  III  4to 


^. 


»  •    »      •   w 


ir 


fv^i 


1 


.^^; 


-V 


.x^^.. 


A  * 


'    V         ' 


•»  r-- 


t  ,'         • 


l> 

•» 

A 

^■r<. 

V 

tK 

T 

1 

\K 

i. 

,  > 

;'*^ 

H 

■-^• 

"• 

Kh 

% 

/ 
•^■4 

h 

''4-: 

^ 

» 

-.  /I 

r 

f-  -. 

1 

r*'- 

*  * 

V 

<.'^> 

^|: 

ft 

^Jr 

.*i 

^^H 

* 

J  fl 

->3 


V, 


■  «  -» 


?\N^. 


V  •- 


(; 


u 


J 


MEMOIR 


OF  THE  LIFE  AND  CHARACTER 


OF  THE 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE; 


WITH  SPECIMENS  OF  HIS  POETRY  AND  LETTERS, 


AND  AN 


ESTIMATE   OF  HIS  GENIUS  AND   TALENTS, 


COMFARBD  WITH   TH06B   OF  HIS 


GREAT  CONTEMPORARIES. 


BY  JAMES  PRIOR,  ESQ. 


SECOND  EDITION, 

ENLARGED   TO   TWO    VOLUMES, 

BY    A   VARIBTY   OF  ORIGINAL   LBTTBRS^   ANBCOOTBS^   PAPBR8, 
AND  OTHBR  ADDITIONAL   MATTBR. 

VOL.  II. 


LONDON: 
PRINTED  FOR  BALDWIN,  CRADOCK,  AND  JOY. 

1826. 


I 


(.  Bal<lvli,  Prlii4«r, 
New  Urid^tt-ttrert,  Loodon. 


'\ 


i" 


CONTENTS, 


CHAPTER  I. 

Anecdote  of  Burke  at  Mr.  Crewe's-^Adventnxe  widi  a  Poor 
Artist — R^ency  Question. — Letter  to  Mr.  Pitt. — Letter 

to    Mr.    Montagu. — -Fxendi    Revolution. ^Letters   to 

M.  Menonville.— Letters  from  Edmund^  the  two  Richardf, 
and  lAn,  Burke>  to  Mrs.  FrencL-^Rupture  with  Mr* 
Sheridan.— Correspondence  with  Mr.  Mercer^— Parlia* 
mentary  Business. — Mr.  G.  Hamilton 1 

CHAPTER  n. 

Publication  of  Reflections  on  the  Revolution  in  Frances- 
Testimonies  in  its  favour.— Reply  of  Burke  to  the  Uni- 
versities of  Dublin  and  Oxford,  and  to  Mr.  Cumberland*-— 
Thmnas  Paine. — Character  of  Henry  IV.  of  France. — 
Letter  to  a  Member  of  the  National  Assembly.— Riqpture 
with  Mr.  Fox. — Jury  Bill  of  1791* — Parliamentary  Bud- 
ness.— Anecdotes 100 

CHAPTER  HI. 

Anecdote  of  Burke's  Unobtrusive  Spirit. — Appeal  from  the 
New  to  the  Old  Whigs.*— French  Emigranta^— Letter  to 
Mr.  (now  Baron)  Smith.-— Writings  on  French  AStm, 
and  on  the  Roman  Catholic  Claim8.«-^ir  Joshua  Re3mold8. 
— Parliamentary  Business. — Letter  on  the  Death  of  Bilr. 
Shackletoii.— War  with  France. — Letter  of  Mr.  R. 
Burke,  jun.  to  Mr.  Smith •    166 

CHAPTER  IV. 

Letter  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  on  the  Conduct  of  the  Miw>* 
rity.— -Letter  to  Mr.  Smith.— Character  of  Mr.  Dundas.— 
Remarks  on  the  Policy  of  the  Allies.— Letters  to  General 
CHara,  Mr»  Murphy/  and  Mr*  Dolphin^— Richard  •  Buike 
the  elder. — Report  upon  the  Causes  of  the  Duration  of 
Mr.  Hasting's  TriaL— Death  of  Young  Burke. — Dr.  Law- 
rence's Letters 227 


v 


IV  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  V; 

FAOB. 

Correspondence  ]¥ith  William  Smith,  Esq.  (of  Ireland)  on 
the   Roman    Catholic    Que8tion.«-Seoond  Letter  to  Sir 
Herculus  Langrishe,    on  the  same  Subject. — ^Letter  to 
William  Elliott,  Esq.,.  on  the  Attach  of  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk  in  the  House  of  Lords.-^Letters  to  Mrs.  Sallsbuzy 
Haviland. — Letter  to  Lord  Auckland,  with  Remarks  on . 
his  Paiooiphlet. — Letter  to  WOliam  Smith,  Esq. — Thoughts 
and. Details  on  Scarcity. — Anecdotes. — Grant  of  a  Pension.. 
Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord,. in  Reply  to  an  Attadc  ofthe- 
I^uke  of  Bedford  and  the  Earl  of  Lauderdale,  in.  the 
House  of  Lords , .  L * 885 

CHAPTER  VL 

Establishment. of  the  Emigrant  School  at  Penn. — Letters.to 
W.  H ^f  and  to  J.  Gahagan,  Esq.— -Letters  on  a  Regi- 
cide Peace.—- His  Prophetic  Spirit, .  as  opposed  to  that.,  of 
Mr.  Pitt.«— Report  concerning  him.— Letter  to  Mrs.  Lead- 
beater.— ^Letter  on  the  Affairs  of  Ireland.— His  Illness 

^  and  Death '..... • 352 

CHAPTER  VII. 

His  Person.— Manners.-^Habits« — Conversational  Powers 
and  Sallies.— Private  Character. — ^Ardour  of  Temper  and 
reputed  Irritability.— Contemporary  Opinions  formed  of 
hhn. 408 


•       • 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

His  Eloquence.*— His  Writings.— His  leading  Principles  as  a 
Statesman. — Mr.  Burke,  Mr.  Pitt,  Mr.  Fox. 454 

Addenda.^ »«.».., , »»• 515 

Index  , «; ..*•• ••••• r».«««.'  689 


CHAPTER  h 

Anecdote  of  Burke  at  Mr.  Crewe's. — ^Adventure  with  a  poor 
Artist. — Regency  Question. — ^Letter  to  Mr.  Pitt. — ^Letter  to 
Mr.  Montagu. — French  Revolution. — Letters  to  M.  Menon- 
ville. — Letters*  from  £dmundj  the  two  Richards^  and  Mrs. 
Burke,  to  Mrs.  French.— Rupture  with  Mr.  Sheridan. — Cor* 
zespondenoe  with  Mr.  Mercer. — Parliamentary  Business. — ^Mr. 
G.  Hamilton. 


During  the  period  of  the  application  to  Par- 
liament of  His  Royal  Highness  the  Prince  of  Wales 
for  an  increase  of  income  in  order  to  the  liquidation 
of  his  debts,  Mr.  Sheridan,  who  was  then  supposed 
to  stand  high  in  the  confidence  of  the  illustrious 
personage,  was  commenting  in  strong  terms,  when 
dining  one  day  at  the  table  of  Mr.  Crewe,  on  the 
hardship  of  the  case,  and  the  disinclination  shown 
by  the  executive  government  to  assist  him;  con-^ 
duding  with  a  kind  of  authoritative  assertion,  that 
if  not  granted.  His  Royal  Highness  must  discon- 
tinue the  necessary  repairs  of  Cariton  House,  and 
must  retire  from  the  dignity  of  his  public  station 
into  the  obscurity  of  private  life. 

Mr.  Burke,  who  with  several  other  members  of 
Opposition  was  •  present,  observed  in  reply,  that 
though  no  one  coidd  wish  more  heartily  than  him*" 
self 'that  no  obstacle  should  be  thrown  by  Mr.  Pitt 
in  the  way  of  an  amicable  accommodation,  yet  even 
were  the  application  refused,  he  saw  no  perfectly 
satisfactory  reason  for  adopting  the  threatened 
alternative.     "  Admitting,"  said  he,  **  that  some 

VOL.   II.  B 


2  IJFE    OF   THE 

inconveniences  may  be  occasioned  to  His  Royal 
Highness^  yet  on  the  whole  it  will  be  more  wise  to 
submit  to  them  than  to  resort  to  retirement,  which 
I  consider  extremely  impolitic  and  ill-judged,  and 
may  induce  people  to  believe  that  there  is  in  such  a 
mode  of  proceeding  more  of  petulance  than  prudence ; 
while  many  will  be  induced  to  question  whether 
dignity  thus  easily  and  voluntarily  thrown  aside, 
may  not  in  time  be  dispensed  with  altogether. 
Besides,  submission  is  in  itself  a  virtue,  and  ulti- 
mately will  have  its  eflfect." 

Considerable  discussion  ensued  upon  the  point. 
It  was  urged  that  it  was  better  not  to  appear  in 
public  at  all,  than  to  appear  with  diminished  splen-t 
dour ;  and  at  any  rate  the  expenses  of  the  public 
establishment  alone  would  absorb  the  whole  of  his 
Royal  Highnesses  income,  leaving  nothing  for  those 
private  enjoyments  which  royalty  as  well  as  private 
men,  look  to  as  the  chief  soothers  and  sweeteners  of 
life. .  *^  Taking  the  question  even  on  this  showing/* 
replied  Burke,  ^*  if  we  inquire  very  minutely,  some-f 
thing  may  be  found  even  for  this  purpose.  But  I 
must  continue  to  think,  that  a  Royal  Personage 
ought,  in  some  cases,  to  make  this  among  his  other 
sacrifices.  My  idea  is,  Sir,  (alluding  to  the  paramount 
duty  of  supporting  the  royal  dignity  in  preference 
to  any  private  gratification) — ^that  we  should  starve 
Ae  man  in  order  to  fatten  the  prince,  rather  than 
starve  the  prince  in  order  to  fatten  the  man." 

*VBut  after  all,  he  continued,  there  will  be  no 
Becessity  for  this  now ;  I  think  I  can  make  it  ovl% 
very  satisfactorily ;  let  us  trace  the  outline  on  paper." 
Paper  was  accordingly  brought^     "  To  a  palace^ 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  8 

three  things  are  indispensable — a  chapel,  a  library, 
and  a  riding  house,  to  provide  for  the  wants  of 
religion,  of  the  understanding  at  large,  and  of  the 
health  of  the  body,  but  our  views  being  economical, 
the  chaplain  must  likewise  perform  the  duty  of 
librarian.  Another  point  I  deem  essentially  proper, 
if  not  politically  useful,  that  is  for  His  Royal  High- 
ness to  give  a  dinner  once  a  fortnight  to  all  the 
leading  members  of  both  houses  of  parliament 
without  distinction  of  party."  He  went  on  to  state 
his  ideas  of  a  royal  establishment  on  many  other 
matters  connected  with  public  display ;  continuing 
the  detail  to  the  description  and  quality  of  the  offi^rs 
of  the  household,  the  number  of  servants,  of  horses, 
of  C£Lrriages,  (he  limited  the  latter  to  two  as  suffi- 
cient for  all  useful  purposes)  the  necessary  annual 
repairs  of  the  royal  residence,  proceeding  through 
every  other  item  of  probable  expense  down  to  the 
most  minute,  showing  an  extraordinary  acquaintance 
with  the  customary  wants  of  a  palace  though  so 
little  acquainted  practically  with  its  interior — a 
knowledge  probably  acquired  from  the  minute 
research  necessary  to  perfect  the  details  of  the  eeo^ 
nomical  reform  bill.  The  result  of  his  calculation 
was,  that  after  paying  all  state  expenses,  upon  a 
scale  which  the  company  present  seemed  to  think 
sufficiently  liberal,  there  would  still  be  a  residue  of 
10,000/.>  which  might  be  appropriated  to  private 
purposes.  "  I  always  knew  Burke's  capacity  to 
comprehend  great  things,"  said  Mr.  Courtenay,  who 
was  present  on  the  occasion,  "  but  I  was  not  so  well 
aware  that  he  had  leisure  enough  to  master  the 
small."^ 

9  2 


4  LIFE  OF  THE 

Of  his  desire  to  encourage  and  assist  unfriended 
talent,  or  any  thing  that  bore  the  semblance  of 
talent,  another  instance,  which  occurred  about  this 
time,  ought  not  to  be  omitted. 

Travelling  from  town  toward  Beaconsfield  during 
the  summer,  he  overtook  on  the  road  a  person  almost 
overcome  with  heat  and  fatigue,  and  whose  habili- 
ments having  evidently  seen  more  than  their  due 
period  of  service,  tacitly  hinted  that  their  owner 
found  it  inconvenient  to  provide  any  other  convey- 
ance than  that  which  nature  had  given  him.  Mr. 
Burke  believing  he  saw  something  of  character  in  his 
countenance,  offered  him  (no  uncommon  thing  with 
him  to  occasional  travellers .  of  not  absolutely  dis- 
reputable appearance)  a  ride  in  his  carriage  as  far  as 
their  way  lay  together,  which  was,  of  course,  grate- 
fully accepted.  The  pedestrian  proved  to  be  a  poor 
artist, — or  rather  what  is  termed  a  piece  of  an 
artist;  for  having  been  brought  up  to  something 
else,  he  had  but  lately  intruded  into  the  regions  of 
taste,  and  had  met  with  from  the  world  the  usual 
fate  of  all  intruders,  a  cool  reception.  Specimens  of 
his  abilities  probably  meant  to  ^^  shame  the  rogues  " 
for  their  defect  in  judgment,  he  carried  with  him. 
These  the  orator  examined  ;  and  finding  some  germ 
of  talent  that  might  in  time  become  respectable 
though  not  at  all  likely  to  be  great,  he  carried  him 
to  Beaconsfield,  kept  him  for  a  day  or  two,  and 
dismissed  him  with  a  little  money  and  much  good 
advice,  "  to  study  hard  and  work  diligently,  for 
those  alone  constituted  the  foundations  of  all  excel- 
lence and  all  success." 

The  man,  however,  having  too  good  an  opinion 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  5 

of  himself  to  believe  that  so  much  work  was  neoes- 
saiy,  or  perhaps  conceiving  how  much  easier  it  was 
to  live  bf  the  liberality  of  a  patron  than  by  his  own 
plodding  industry,  became  troublesome  in  his  appli- 
cations for  pecuniary  assistance.  This,  Mr.  Burke 
plainly  told  him,  it  was  not  in  his  power  to  give  to 
any  extent ;  but  if  determined  to  be  industrious,  he 
would  by  his  influence  among  the  chief  artists  in  the 
country,  take  care  to  ensure  him  constant  employ- 
ment. He  also  wrote  him  two  letters  of  advice — 
one  of  them  the  writer  is  informed  very  excellent— 
for  though  promised  to  him,  he  has  not  yet  seen  it ; 
the  other  is  transcribed  firom  the  original  now  before 
him. 

«  Sir, 

*^  I  have  received  your  letters,  and  if  I  have  given 
you  offence  by  not  answering  your  first  in  proper 
time,  I  am  sorry  for  it,  and  beg  your  pardon. 

**  You  will  be  so  obliging  to  recollect  that  the 
most  I  ever  gave  you  the  least  hope  of  was  some 
occasional  assistance  whilst  you  perfected  yourself 
in  drawing  at  such  hours  as  you  could  spare  from 
your  business ;  as  you  showed  me  some  essays  in 
engraving  by  which  it  appeared  to  me  (though  it  was 
too  late  to  think  of  painting)  you  might  possibly  by 
application  obtain  a  livelihood,  or  some  help  towards 
it  by  that  art,  which  is  lately  come  into  very  great 
request.  More  than  that  I  covld  not  honestly  give 
you  the  least  hope  of ;  and  this,  I  think,  I  repeated 
to  you  more  than  once.  When  I  come  to  town,  I 
shall,  so  far  as  such  a  trifling  aid  as  I  can  afford, 
give  you  a  little  help. 


6  LIFE  OF  THE 

^^  As  to  your  arrangements  in  other  respects  I  am 
not  at  all  entitled,  and  feel  as  little  disposed^  to 
abric^  your  liberty  by  any  direction  of  mine.  It  is 
not  my  custom  to  take  upon  me  the  regulation  of 
any  person's  conduct,  even  of  those  who  are  better 
known  to  me  than  you  are.  It  is  impossible  that  I 
should  have  any  objection  to  your  application  to  the 
gentleman  you  mention,  who  is  a  man  of  undoubted 
merit ;  and  one  for  whom  I  have  much  esteem. 

*^  As  to  what  you  write  about  other  matters  I 
must  beg  leave  to  siiggest  to  you  that  if  you  can 
reconcile  it  to  your  own  mind  to  have  any  meddling 
with  prophecies  and  prophets,*  it  were  more  advisable 
to  keep  such  thoughts  to  yourself ;  as  to  those  who 
are  not  used  to  make  the  allowances  I  am  disposed 
to  make  for  the  singularities  of  men,  it  must  tend  to 
give  them  very  disadvantageous  impressions  of  you. 
I  am  with  good  wishes  for  your  success, 

"  Sir,  yoiu:  most  humble  servant, 

"  Edmund  Burke." 

"  BeaconsEeld,  Sept.  9i  1787." 

Toward  the  end  of  October,  1788,  the  melancholy 
illness  of  the  King  withdrew  public  attention  from 
all  other  subjects  to  the  consequent  proceedings  in 
Parliament,  in  which  Mr.  Burke,  who,  it  might  be 
thought,  had  enough  to  do  with  the  complicated 
labours  of  the  impeachment,  was  destined  to  take  an 
equally  conspicuous  part. 

It  is  more  than  doubtful  whether,  at  the  com* 
mencement  of  the  business,  this  was  quite  congenial 

*  Alluding  to  an  inclination  of  the  artist  to  become  a  follower 
of  tlic  prophet  Brothers. 


RIGHT    HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  7 

to  hid  wfehes.  But  the  absence  from  England  at 
first,  and  the  subsequent  ilhiess  of  Mr.  Fox,  threw 
the  labouring  oar  upon  him  ;  and  a  sense  of  poMy 
honour  or  necessity,  joined  to  a  conviction  in  his 
mind  of  the  Heir  Apparent  being  treated  with 
injustice  and  disrespect  by  the  Ministry,  carried  him 
forward  to  wield  it  with  as  much  of  energy  as  he 
had  ever  shown  upon  any  occasion,  but  with  less 
moderation  of  temper.  Personal  favour  or  aggran* 
dizement  he  had  no  reason  to  expect ;  for  above  nine 
weeks  of  the  emergency  had  elapsed  when  he  point- 
edly declared  in  the  House  of  C!ommons  (22d 
December) — and  the  omission  was  then  well  known 
in  the  political  world,  though  remedied  soon  after- 
ward,— ^that  he  knew  as  little  of  the  interior  of 
Carlton  House  as  he  did  of  Buckingham  House. 
This  did  not  in  the  least  abate  the  zeal  of  his 
exertions. 

A  minute  detail  of  these  labours,  as  they  may  be 
found  in  all  publications  whether  of  biography  or 
history  connected  with  this  period,  it  is  not  necessary 
to  give  here ;  it  is  sufficient  to  say  they  comprised 
nearly  all  that  argument,  wit,  constitutional  know- 
ledge, and  sarcastic  ridicule,  could  urge,  and  were 
zealously  continued  in  almost  every  debate  on  the 
subject  for  about  two  months.  He  contended  for 
the  exclusive  right  of  the  Prince  of  Wales  to  the 
Regency,  in  opposition  to  Mr.  Pitt,  who  maintained 
that  any  other  person  approved  by  Parliament,  had 
an  equal  right  to  it ;  he  strenuously  resisted  the  two 
cidef  resolutions  moved  by  him^ — ^that  it  was  the 
eiq)ress  duty  of  the  two  Houses  to  provide  a  Re- 
gency, in  case  of  interruption  to  the  royal  authority 


8  LIFE  OF  THE 

—and  that  they  alone  shcfuld  determine  oa  the 
means  to  give  the  royal  assent  to  the  bill  con«» 
stituting  such  a  Regency. 

From  the  following  note  written  about  this  time 
to  ^eridan,  we  might  almost  imply,  that  he  did  not 
realfy  think  some  part  of  the  argument  of  Mr.  Fox 
and  himself  on  this  subject  quite  so  strong  and 
decisive  as  they  wished  to  impress  upon  tlie  publie 
mind. 

**  My  bear  Sir, 
^^  My  idea  was,  that  on  Fox's  declaring  that  the 
precedents,  neither  individually  nor  collectively,  do 
at  all  apply,  our  attendance  ought  to  have  been 
merely  formal.  But  as  you  think  otherwise,  I  shall 
certainly  be  at  the  committee  soon  after  one.  I 
rather  think  that  they  will  not  attempt  to  garble : 
because,  supposing  the  precedents  to  apply,  the 
mqfor  part  are  certainly  in  their  favour.  It  is  not 
likely  that  they  mean  to  suppress,— but  it  is  good  to 
be  on  our  guard. 

"  Ever  most  truly  yours,  &c. 

"  Edmund  Burke.'* 

Ceraidostreety  Thtursday  Morning. 

The  bill  itself,  introduced  as  it  was  with  so  many 
restrictions,  he  stigmatized  as  derogatory,  injurious^ 
suspicious,  and  insulting  to  the  Prince,  who  was  thua 
left  to  exercise  all  the  invidious  duties  of  government 
without  any  of  its  power  to  encourage  or  reward 
merit ;  he  therefore  debated  it,  clause  by  clause,  with 
unabated  spirit  till  toward  the  end  of  February, 
when  the  happy  recovery  of  the  Sovereign,  at  length 


RIGHT  HON*  EDMUND   BURKE.  ^      9 

pttt  an  end  to  the  faickeriiigs  and  peroondlities  on  all 
sides  produced  by  this  contention.  The  usual  and 
indeed  uncommon  diligence  with  which  Mr.  Burke 
sought  for  information  on  all  topics  of  interest,  may 
he  conceived  from  what  took  place  on  the  present 
occasion ;  when  it  is  known,  that,  besides  ransacking 
our  history  for  precedents  or  points  of  coincidence, 
he  examined  all  the  medical  books  treating  of  the 
disease,  and  visited  several  receptacles  for  persons  so 
afflicted,  in  order  more  thoroughly  to  trace  its  general 
progress  and  results,  besides  being  in  constant  attend* 
ance  on  the  examinations  of  the  physicians.  Neither 
was  his  pen  less  exercised  upon  this  occasion  than 
any  other  of  his  powers ;  and  credit  has  been  given 
to  it  for  a  variety  of  short  pieces  published  in  the 
newspapers  of  the  day,  such  as  the  questions  to  the 
Lord  Mayor,  some  speeches,  letters,  answers,  and 
representations  said  to  be  written  for  exalted  per- 
sonages, a  few  of  which  breathe  strong  insinuations 
against  the  character  and  designs  of  Administration. 

These  however  were  inferior  missiles  compared 
with  another  production,  which,  from  the  quarter 
whence  it  nominally  emanated,  the  important  political 
sentiments  it  contained,  the  style  in  which  they  were 
conveyed,  and  the  celebrity  which  the  paper  not  only 
acquired  at  the  moment,  but  has  ever  since  retained, 
claimed  an  importance  which  it  was  suspected  could 
only  be  given  to  it  by  the  same  gifted  penman. 

On  the  30th  December,  1788,  Mr.  Pitt  addressed 
a  letter  to  His  Royal  Highness  the  Prince  of  Wales^ 
specifying  in  detail  the  restrictions  to  be  imposed 
upon  him  in  the  exercise  of  his  duty  as  Regent. 
The  reply,  which,  as  a  matter  of  cQurse,  would 


10  LIFE  OF  THE 

meet  the  public  ejre»  required  in  its  composition  no 
ordinary  share  of  skill,  discretion,  and  sound  coiisti* 
tutional  feeling  as  wdl  as  knowledge ;  for  tidiile  it 
was  unavoidable  for  the  Prince  to  express  some  dis- 
pleasiure  at  the  ungenerous  suspicions  insinuated 
against  his  future  conduct,  considerable  reserve 
became  necessary  even  in  touching  upon  this  and 
upon  every  other  part  of  the  question,  so  as  not  to 
commit  himself  or  his  political  friends,  with  Parlia-' 
m^it,  with  the  public,  with  the  Queen,  or  with  his 
Majesty,  in  case  of  his  recovery.  For  the  execution 
of  this  delicate  -duty  the  eyes  of  the  party  directly 

turned  upon  Burke.     In  his  hands,  while  it  would 

• 

be  sure  to  acquire  the  requisite  vigour,  information^ 
and  address  necessary  for  the  occasion ;  the  heat 
which  occasionally  attended  him  in  debate,  was 
known  to  be  almost  wholly  discarded  from  his  com- 
positions in  the  closet.  This  paper,  though  little 
time  was  given  him  for  defliberating  on  the  matter, 
fully  confirmed  their  anticipations ;  indeed  it  is 
almost  siirprising  how  readily  and  completely  he 
quits  at  a  moment's  notice  the  warmth  of  the  par- 
tisan for  the  imposing  dignity  of  the  Prince.  This 
peculiarity  combined  perhaps  with  the  known  fact  so 
i^ecently  proclaimed  by  himself  of  being  little  familiar 
with  the  interior  of  Carlton  House,  have  frequently 
given  birth  to  doubts  whether  he  was  really  the 
author  of  the  piece ;  but  of  this  fact  there  is  no 
question:  ^a  few  trifling  alterations  indeed,  said 
to  be  made  in  his  draught  of  it,  were  emphatically 
pronounced  at  the  time  to  be  not  for  ike  better. 

**  The  Prince  of  Wales  learns   from  Mr.  Pitt's 
letter,  that  the  proceedings  in  Parliament  are  now  in 


RIGHT   HOK.   SbMUKD  BURKE.  11 

a  tr^  which  enables  Mr.  Pitt,  according  to  the  in* 
timation  in  his  former  letter,  to  communicate  to  the 
Prince  the  outline  of  the  plan  which  His  Majesty's 
confidential  servants  conceive  to  be  proper  to  be  pro- 
posed in  the  present  circumstances. 

^  Concerning  the  steps  already  taken  by  Mr«  Pitt, 
the  Prince  is  silent.  Nothing  done  by  the  two 
Houses  of  Parliament  can  be  a  proper  subject  of  his 
animadversion ;  but  when,  previously  to  any  discus- 
sion in  Parliament,  the  outlines  of  a  scheme  of  go- 
vernment are  sent  for  his  consideration,  in  which  it 
is  proposed  that  he  shall  be  personally  and  princi- 
pally concerned,  and  by  which  the  royal  authority 
and  the  public  welfare  may  be  deeply  affected,  the 
Prince  would  be  unjustifiable,  were  he  to  withhold 
an  explicit  declaration  of  his  sentiments.  His 
silence  might  be  construed  into  a  previous  appro-» 
bation  of  a  plan,  the  accomplishment  of  which  every 
motive  of  duty  to  his  father  and  sovereign,  as  well 
as  of  regard  for  the  public  interest,  obliges  him  to 
consider  as  injurious  to  "both. 

*'  In  the  state  of  deep  distress  in  whidi  the  Prince 
and  the  whole  royal  family  were  involved  by  the 
heavy  calamity  which  has  fallen  upon  the  King,  >and 
at  a  moment  when  government,  deprived  of  its  chief 
energy  and  support,  seemed  peculiarly  to  need  the 
cordial  and  united  aid  of  all  descriptions  of  good 
subjects,  it  was  not  expected  by  the  Prince,  that  a 
plan  should  be  offered  to  his  consideration,  by  which 
government  was  to  be  rendered  difficult,  if  not  im- 
practicable, in  the  hands  of  any  person  intended  to 
represent  the  King,  much  less  in  the  hands  of  *his 
eldest  son,  the  Heir  Apparent  of  his  kingdoms,  and 


12  LIFE   OF   THE 

the  person  most  bound  to  the  maintenance  of 
Majesty's  just  prerogatives  and  authority,  as  well  as 
most  interested  in  the  happiness,  the  prosperity,  and 
the  glory  of  the  people. 

^*  The  Prince  forbears  to  remark  on  the  several 
parts  of  the  sketch  of  the  plan  laid  before  him.  He 
apprehends  it  must  have  been  formed  with  sufficient 
deliberation,  to  preclude  the  probability  of  any  argu- 
ment of  his  producing  an  alteration  of  sentiment  in 
the  projectors  of  it.  But  he  trusts  with  confidence 
to  the  wisdom  and  justice  of  Parliament,  when  the 
whole  of  this  subject,  and  the  circumstances  conr 
nected  with  it,  shall  come  under  their  deliberation. 

^^  He  observes,  therefore,  only  generally  on  the 
heads  communicated  by  Mr.  Pitt ;  and  it  is  with 
deep  regret  the  Prince  makes  the  observation,  that 
he  sees  in  the  contents  of  that  paper,  a  project  for 
producing  weakness,  disorder,  and  insecurity,  in 
every  branch  of  the  administration  of  affairs, — a 
project  for  dividing  the  royal  family  from  each 
other — ^for  separating  the  court  from  the  state ;  and, 
therefore,  by  disfoining  government  from  its  natural 
and  accustomed  support,  a  scheme  for  disconnecting 
the  authority  to  command  service  from  the  power  of 
animating  it  by  reward — and  for  allotting  to  the 
Prince  all  the  imadious  duties  of  government,  with- 
out the  means  of  softening  them  to  the  public  by  any 
one  act  of  grace,  favor,  or  benignity. 

**  The  Prince's  feelings,  on  contemplating  this 
plan,  are  also  rendered  still  more  painful  to  him,  by 
observing  that  it  is  not  founded  on  any  general  prin-* 
ciple,  but  is  calculated  to  infuse  jealousies  and  suspi- 
cions, wholly  groundless  he  trusts,  in  that  quarter 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  IS 

whose  confidence  it  will  ever  be  the  first  pride  of  his 
life  to  merit  and  obtain. 

"  With  regard  to  the  motive  and  object  of  the 
limitations  and  restrictions  proposed,  the  Prince  can 
have  but  little  to  observe*  No  light  or  information 
is  offered  him  by  His  Majesty's  Ministers  on  these 
points.  They  have  informed  him  what  the  powers 
are  which  they  mean  to  refuse  him,  not  why  they 
are  withheld. 

^<  The  Prince,  however,  holding,  as  he  does,  that 
it  is  an  undoubted  and  fundamental  principle  of  this 
constitution,  that  the  powers  and  prerogatives  of  the 
crown  are  vested  there  as  a  trust  for  the  benefit  of 
the  people,  and  that  they  are  sacred  only  as  they  are 
necessary  to  the  preservation    of  that   poise  and 
balance  of  the  constitution,  which  experience  has 
proved  to  be  the  true  security  of  the  liberty  of  the 
subject,  must  be  allowed  to  observe,  that  the  plea  of 
public  utility  ought  to   be  strong,  manifest,   and 
urgent,  which  calls  for  the  extinction  or  suspension 
of  any  one  of  those  essential  rights  in  the  supreme, 
power  or  its  representative ;  or  which  can  justify 
the  Prince  in  consenting,  that  in  his  person  an  ex- 
periment shall  be  made  to  ascertain  with  how  small 
a  portion  of  the  kingly  power  the  executive  govern* 
ment  of  this  coimtry  may  be  carried  on. 

^  The  Prince  has  only  to  add,  that  if  security  for 
His  Majesty's  re-possessing  his  rightful  government, 
whenever  it  shall  please  Providence,  in  bounty  to  the 
country,  to  remove  the  calamity  with  which  he  is 
afflicted,  be  any  part  of  the  object  of  this  plan,  the 
Prince  has  only  to  be  convinced  that  any  measure  is 
necessary,  or  even  conducive  to  that  end,  to  be  the 


14  LIFE   OF  THE 

first  to  urge  it,  as  the  preliminary  and  paramount 
consideration  of  any  settlement  in  which  he  would 
consent  to  share. 

^^  If  attention  to  what  is  presumed  might  be  His 
Majesty's  feelings  and  wishes  on  the  happy  day  of 
his  recovery  be  the  object,  it  is  with  the  truest  sin- 
cerity, the  Prince  expresses  his  firm  conviction,  that 
no  event  would  be  more  repugnant  to  the  feelings  of 
his  royal  father,  than  the  knowledge  that  the  govern- 
ment of  his  son  and  representative  had  exhibited  the 
sovereign  pow^  in  a  state  of  degradation,  of  cur- 
tailed authority,  and  diminished  energy — ^a  state 
hurtful,  in  practice,  to  the  prosperity  and  good  go- 
vernment of  his  people,  and  injurious,  in  its  prece- 
dent, to  the  security  of  the  monarch,  and  the  rights 
of  his  family. 

<^  Upon  that  part  of  the  plan  which  regards  the 
King's  real  and  personal  property,  the  Prince  feels 
himself  compelled  to  remark,  that  it  was  not  neces- 
sary for  Mr.  Pitt,  nor  proper  to  suggest  to  the  Prince, 
the  restraint  he  prdposes  against  the  Prince's  grant- 
ing away  the  King's  real  and  personal  property.  The 
Prince  does  not  conceive,  that  during  the  King's 
life  he  is  by  law  entitled  to  make  any  such  grant ; 
and  he  is  sure  that  he  has  never  shown  the  smallest 
inclination  to  possess  any  such  power.  But  it  re- 
mains with  Mr.  Pitt  to  consider  the  eventual  inte- 
rests of  the  royal  family,  and  to  provide  a  proper 
and  natural  security  against  the  mismanagement  of 
them  by  others. 

'*  The  Prince  has  discharged  an  indispensable 
duty,  in  thus  giving  his  free  opinion  on  the  plan 
submitted  to  his  consideration.  His  conviction  of 
the  evils  which  may  arise  to  the  King's  interests,  to 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  15 

tlie  peace  and  happiness  of  the  rojral  £unily,  and  to 
the  safety  and  welfare  of  the  nation^  from  the  go- 
remment  of  the  counlay  remaining  longer  in  its 
present  maimed  and  debilitated  state,  outweighs,  in 
the  Prince's  mind,  every  other  consideration,  and 
will  determine  him  to  undertake  the  painful  trust 
imposed  upon  him  by  the  present  melancholy  necesU 
sity,  which,  of  all  the  King's  subjects,  he  deplores 
the  most,  in  full  confidence  that  the  affection  and 
loyalty  to  the  King,  the  experienced  attachment  to 
the  House  of  Brunswick,  and  the  generosity  which 
has  always  distinguished  this  nation,  will  carry  him 
through  the  many  difficulties  inseparaUe  from  this 
most  critical  situation,  with  comfort  to  himself,  with 
honour  to  the  King,  and  with  advantage  to  the 
puUic. 

*'  Carlton  House,  January  2d,  1789." 

The  jealousy  and  displeasure  contrived  to  be  in«- 
stilled  into  the  mind  of  the  Queen  toward  her  son, 
without  reasonable  groimds  for  such  feelings,  were 
not  among  the  least  remarkable  proofs  of  the  sinister 
art  and  insinuation  exerted  upon  this  occasion.  Of 
some  of  his  Royal  Highness's  presumed  friends  and 
advisers,  particularly  the  heads  of  opposition,  stiU 
worse  opinions  were  formed.  Mr.  Burke  about  thi» 
time  used  to  say  that  some  pains  had  been  more  than 
once  taken,  though  without  any  provocation  on  his 
part,  to  cause  him  to  stand  ill  with  her  Majesty ;  in 
the  first  instance  on  occasion  of  the  economical  reform 
bill ;  in  the  second  by  the  impeachment  of  Hastings, 
whom  she  thought  favourably  of  and  was  believed  to 
patronise  and  support ;  in  the  third  by  the  parlia- 
mentary proceedings  on  the  present  question.     An 


16  LIFE   OF*  THfi 

instance  of  the  paltiy,  though  perhaps  not  unsacce^-* 
ful  arts,  made  use  of  on  the  former  occasion  to  his 
disadvantage,  came  to  his  knowledge  soon  after  it 
occurred,  and  was  several  times  mentioned  in  con- 
versation with  his  familiar  friends,  as  an  exemplifica- 
tion of  a  strong  phrase  of  his  own,  for  which  he  had 
been  sometimes  jocularly  taken  to  task  for  using,  *^  the 
low  pimping  politics  of  a  court."  Her  Majesty,  it  seems, 
had  been  accustomed  to  use  a  lemon  every  morning 
for  purposes  of  the  toilet,  but  immediately  after  the 
passing  of  the  reform  bill  in  1782,  foimd  regularly 
half  a  lemon  substituted  for  a  whole  one.  Upon 
inquiring  into  the  cause,  she  was  informed  it  arose 
from  the  operation  of  Mr.  Burke's  bill,  which  under 
the  plea  of  economy,  was  intended  to  diminish,  or  to 
deprive  her,  and  those  about  her,  of  all  their  little 
comforts  and  conveniendes — *^  and  however  con- 
temptible the  shafts,"  said  he,  '*  levelled  in  this  and 
other  similar  methods,  I  found  they  were  not  with- 
out their  venom." 

In  the  vehement  abuse  poured  out  upon  him 
during  the  discussions  on  the  Regency,  it  has  been 
said  that  he  displayed  a  kind  of  triumph,  or  at  least 
an  indelicacy  to  the  unhappy  condition  in  which  His 
Majesty  was  placed ;  a  charge  which  his  general  and 
indeed  extreme  humanity  upon  all  occasions,  and  a 
fair  interpretation  of  his  expressions  such  as  every 
extempore  debater  requires  and  commonly  solicits 
from  his  hearers,  sufficiently  refute. 

It  is  well  known  indeed  that  he  felt  much  too 
warmly  upon  all  public  topics ;  that  he  gave  vent  to 
his  feelings  too  freely ;  and  that  he  committed  upon 
this,  as  upon  some  other  occasions  in  his  life,  the 
fault  of  being  too  unreserved  with  the  public  at  large» 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  17 

whieh,  afi  experience  has  frequently  proved,  treats 
those  statesmen  with  the  least  consideration  who 
exhibit^  towards  it  the  greatest  candour  and  con- 
M&iee ;  so  that  concealment  and  art,  though  con- 
sidered as  the  vices  of  a  high  public  character,  are 
almost  necessary  to  such  a  person  to  enjoy  the  favour 
of  those  whom  he  serves.  In  debate  Mr.  Burke's 
warmth  was  sufBciently  punished  on  this  question  by 
unjust  insinuations  in  the  House,  by  abundant  abuse 
in  the  newspapers,  and  by  cries  of  order !  frequently 
repeated,  which,  being  once  pertinaciously  urged 
in  what  he  thought  a  frivolous  or  party  spirit, 
drew  from  him  the  following  observation  in  reply, 
having  more  than  once  expressed  contempt  at  the 
use  of  this  exclamation : — 

^^  Order  is  an  admirable  thing,  perfect  in  all  its 
limbs,  but  unfortunately  it  squints,  or  can  see  only 
on  that  side  which  tells  for  itself.  Delicacy  also  I 
hav^  the  utmost  wish  to  preserve;  but  delicacy, 
though  a  being  of  perfect  symmetry,  like  the  former, 
is  only  a  subsidiary  virtue,  and  ought  always  to 
give  way  to  truth,  where  the  case  is  such  that  the 
truth  is  of  infinitely  more  importance  than  the  de- 
licacy." On  another  occasion  he  observed,  that 
<*  delicacy  was  to  truth,  but  as  the  ru£Qe  to  a  shirt, 
and  he  did  not  admire  the  taste  of  those  who  were 
content  to  lay  aside  the  shirt  and  to  display  only  the 
ruffle.'' 

Politicians  militant  commonly  make  the  greatest 
excuses  for  each  other ;  and  there  were  many 
apologies  for  the  warmth  of  Mr.  Burke  in  the 
undoubted  and  admitted  manoeuvring  of  Ministjy, 
which  would  have  enabled  them  to  jockey  his  friends 

VOL.  !!•  c 


Ig  LIFE  OF  THE 

out  of  the  useful  exercise  of  that  power  which  thejr 
Were  on  the  point  of  acqturing,  had  thejr  even 
gained  it ;  likewise  in  the  artful  eoncealment  of  the 
design  till  the  middle  of  December  when  it  was  ripe 
for  execution ;  in  the  means  made  use  of  to  instil 
ungenerous  suspicions  of  her  children  into  the  mind 
of  the  Queen ;  in  the  anomalous  principle  of  an 
elective  regency  in  an  hereditary  monarchy ;  in  the 
fraud  and  fiction,  as  he  strongly  termed  it,  of  making 
the  Great  Seal,  a  thing  of  wax  and  copper,  a  substi- 
tute for  a  King,  when  a  living,  lawful,  intelligent 
heir  was  at  hand  $  in  the  number  and  nature  of  the 
restrictions  imposed ;  in  the  conflicting  opinions  of 
the  physicians ;  and  something  possibly  in  his  own 
increasing  irritability,  the  common  offspring  of  in<- 
creasing  infirmity  and  age.  No  one  understood  the 
necessity  for  such  allowances,  or  acted  more  fairly 
upon  them,  than  Mr.  Pitt ;  for  though  keenly  sensi^ 
tive  to  the  sarcasms  of  his  opponent,  particularly 
When  taunted  with  being  a  competitor  for  the  Re- 
gency with  the  Prince^  and  to  which  he  replied  by 
an  imgenerous  accusation  that  Mr.  Biu'ke  did  not 
wish  the  King  to  recover,  the  occasion  had  no  soono: 
ceased  than  it  was  forgotten  on  the  part  of  both ; 
botli  probably  feeling  that  had  thdr  situations  as  to 
power  been  reversed,  their  conduct  might  not  have 
materially  differed. 

The  emergency,  to  any  Minister,  was  new  and 
difficult,  but  the  characteristic  dexterity  of  Mr.  Pitt, 
and  the  demO^ratical  view  which  the  preservation, 
or  the  speedy  resumption  of  his  ministerial  power, 
rendered  it  expedient  for  him  to  take  of  it,  tickled 
the.populat  labeling  into  a  decided  approval  of  all  that 


RIGHT  RON.  SBMDKD  BURKE.  19 

be  did*  It  wtt  tif  eourse  no  more  than  natural  that 
he  shmild  wish  to  retain  the  high  and  important 
station  wfaieh  he  then  held ;  and  it  is  equally  certain 
that  had  he  thought  there  was  the  most  distant  hope 
of  retaining  it  under  the  Regent,  the  restrictiooiB 
upon  the  latter  would  not  have  been  imposed.  No 
man  of  any  party  can  possibly  doubt  this.  The 
justice  of  the  restrictions  was  therefore,  to  say  the 
least,  questionable ;  they  cast  a  suspicion  where  no 
suspicion  ought  to  have  fallen ;  and  a  deep  manceuyre 
to  preserve  a  Ministry  became  the  means  not  only  of 
impeding  the  useful  exercise  of  the  power  of  the 
Crown  for  a  time,  but  perhaps  more  permanently 
to  weaken  public  respect  for  it ;  a  proceeding  which, 
at  any  other  time,  or  under  other  circumstances,  Mr, 
Pitt  hhnself  would  have  most  loudly  reprobated. 

Whatever  be  the  opinion  of  that  gentleman's  public 
measures,  or  the  purity  of  his  motives,  his  private 
conduct  certainly  was  manly;  too  unceremonious 
perhaps,  too  lofty,  too  unbending  toward  an  HIub^ 
trious  Personage  to  be  consistent  with  the  deference 
due  to  his  high  station  In  the  state,  though  the  Mi-^ 
nister  disclaimed  the  slightest  intentional  disrespect. 
The  Chancellor  displayed  more  art  and  infinitely  more 
pliancy.  Rough  and  knotted  in  chai  act»  only  when 
his  official  existence  was  not  in  danger,  he  on  this 
occasion  exhibited  more  of  the  willow  than  the  oak 
in  his  composition,  oscillating  between  the  cont^nd-p 
ing  interests  with  a  degree  of  elasticity  of  which  he 
was  previously  not  thought  capable,  and  which,  in 
the  eyes  of  near  observers,  did  not  tend  to  exalt 
his  character.  For  it  is  well  known  he  was  negoci* 
ating  at  Carlton  House  for  the  preservation  ci  hii 

c  2 


so  LIF£   OF  THE 

office  nearly  up  to  the  moment  that  the  recovery  of 
the  King  became  probable.  Mr.  Burke,  necessarily 
aware  of  this,  assailed  him  with  several  sarcasms, 
particularly  on  hearing  of  a  burst  of  the  pathetic, 
accompanied  by  tears,  from  him  in  the  House  of 
Lords,  in  allusion  to  the  afflicting  condition  of  His 
Majesty,  when  he  said,  ^'  when  I  forget  His  Majesty's 
favours  may  God  forget  me/' 

^*  The  theatrical  tears  then  shed,  were  not  the 
tears  of  patriots  for  dying  laws,  but  of  Lords  for 
their  expiring  places ;  the  iron  tears  which  flowed 
down  Pluto's  cheek  rather  resembled  the  dismal 
bubbling  of  the  Styx  than  the  gentle  murmuring 
streams  of  Aganippe :  in  fact,  they  were  tears  for 
his  Majesty's  bread ;  and  those  who  shed  them  would 
stick  by  the  King's  loaf  as  long  as  a  single  cut  of  it 
remained,  while  even  a  crust  of  it  held  together." 
Of  tbe  affectionate  behaviour  of  the  Illustrious  Per- 
sonage most  interested  in  these  discussions,  to  both 
parents  under  invidious  and  trjdng  circumstances,  it 
is  more  difficult  to  speak,  as  the  language  of  truth 
might  be  mistaken  for  impertinent  praise.  But  when 
eulogy  can  have  no  aim,  and  the  motive  cannot  be 
mistaken  of  those  who  speak  of  the  fact  as  it  de- 
serves, it  will  be  adduced  as  an  example  to  diildren 
in  every  condition  of  life. 

During  the  progress  of  this  business,  the  corres- 
pondence of  Mr.  Burke  with  Lord  Charlemont,  who 
took  the  lead  in  the  Irish  House  of  Lords,  and 
formed  one  of  the  deputation  bearing  its  Address  to 
the  Prince,  was  frequent  and  confidential ;  he  being 
indeed  the  only  channel  used  for  communication  of 
the  public  opinion  of  Ireland,  between  that  Noble- 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  81. 

man  and  his  Royal  Highness.     Of  the  latter,  with  ' 
whom  he  had  several  interviews,  he  speaks  highly 
in  a  letter  to  his  Lordship  of  April  4th,  1789  : — 

"  My  dearest  Lord, 

^'  You  do  no  more  than  strict  justice  in  allowing 
the  sincerity  of  my  attachment  to  you,  and  my 
readiness  on  all  occasions  to  obey  your  commands. 
My  affections  are  concerned  in  your  thinking  so, 
and  my  pride  in  having  it  believed  by  as  many  as 
know  me. 

"  Aft^r  I  had  received  your  letter  of  the  S4th  of 
March  I  lost  no  time  in  attending  the  P — .  I  can- 
not say  that  I  executed  your  Lordship's  commissicfn 
literally :  I  thought  it  better  to  let  you  speak  for 
yourself.  To  have  done  otherwise  would  not  have 
been  to  do  justice  to  the  P.,  to  your  Lordship,  or 
even  to  the  person  charged  with  your  commission. 
There  never  was  any  thing  conceived  more  justly,  or 
expressed  with  more  elegance,  than  what  you  have 
said  of  his  R.  H.  I  did  not  think  it  right  to  spoil  ao 
just  and  so  handsome  a  compliment,  by  giving  it  in 
any  other  words  than  your  own.  I  risked  more ; 
and,  without  your  authority,  put  the  letter  into  his 
hands.  The  P.  was  much  pleased,  and  I  think 
affected.  The  account  your  Lordship  has  given  of 
the  state  of  politics  in  Ireland  was  certainly  not  what 
we  could  have  wished,  and  indeed  expected;  It  was,  . 
however,  a  relief  to  his  R.  H.  as  he  found  things 
jnuch  better  than,  from  other  accounts,  he  had  con- 
ceived them. 

**  I  never  had  the  least  idea  that  the  Opposition  ir 
Ireland  could  continue  against  the  presiding  Ad- 


ii  LIFE   OF   THE 

ministration  here,  however  some  individuals  might 
be  on  principle  adverse  to  it.  I  am  charmed  with 
what  I  have  heard  of  the  Duke  of  Leinster.  I  am 
happy  to  find  him  add  a  character  of  firmness  to  the 
rest  of  his  truly  amiable  and  respectable  qualities. 
Ponsonby *  then  is,  it  seems,  the  Proto-Martyr.  I 
never  saw  him  until  the  time  of  your  embassy ;  but 
I  am  not  mistaken  in  the  opinion  I  formed  of  him, 
on  our  first  conversation,  as  a  manly,  decided  cha- 
racter, with  a  right  conformation  of  mind,  and  a 
dear  and  vigorous  understanding.  The  world  will 
see  what  is  got  by  leaving  a  provoked,  a  powerful 
enemy ;  and  how  well  faith  is  kept  by  those,  whose 
situation  is  obtained  by  their  infidelity,  one  would 
have  thought  that  personal  experience  was  not 
necessary  for  teadiing  that  lesson.  As  to  what  you 
have  said  of  the  care  to  be  taken  of  the  Martyrs  to 
their  duty,  that  is  a  thing  of  course,  in  case  an  c^ 
portunity  occurs.  They  would  not  be  injured  so 
much,  as  the  leaders  would  be  eternally  disgraced, 
if  they  were  not  made  their  first  objects.  It  woidd 
be  a  shame,  indeed,  if  those  who  surrender  should 
profit  more  by  the  generosity  of  their  enemies,  than 
those  who  hold  out  to  the  last  biscuit  might  by  the 
justice  and  gratitude  of  their  friends.  Here  we  seem 
to  have  forgot  all  serious  business. 

**  I  have  a  thousand  things  to  say  to  your  Lord- 
diip  on  the  part  of  the  P.  with  regard  to  your  prin- 
ciples, your  liberality  of  sentiment,  the  goodness  of 
your  heart,  and  the  politeness  of  your  manners.  I 
think  him  a  judge  of  these  things,  and  I  see  that  he 

*  Afterwards  Lord  Ponsonby;  dismissed,  after  the  Regency 
question^  from  the  office  of  Post-Master  General. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BUBKE.  SS 

knaWB  th^  value  of  a  cowpUmeiit  from  one^  who  has 
his  civility  for  every  body,  but  the  expresjsion  of  his 
approlMtitioii  for  very  few."  * 

It  is  remarkable  that  though  every  one  else 
thought  the  exertions  of  Mr.  Burke  on  this  questt9|i 
very  labcMrioujSy  he  did  not  seem  to  have  the  same 
opinion  of  them  himself.  **  My  time  of  life,"  said 
he,  writing  to  the  same  Nobleman,  July  lOth^^  on 
this  and  other  matters,  **  the  length  of  my  service, 
and  the  temper  ol  the  public,  rendered  it  very  unfit 
for  me  to  exert  myself  in  the  icommon  routine  of 
Opposition."  Yet  he  had  exerted  himself  on  several 
topics  in  parliament,  with  great  zeal,  in  addition  to 
the  unceasing  slavery  of  the  impeachment  in  West- 
minster Hall. 

With  Mr.  Fox,  though  without  expressly  naming 
him,  he  was  evidently  dissatisfied  on  the  Regency 
queistion,  and  also  with  others  of  his  coadjutors  ^ 
alluding  to  these,  and  to  oontinaed  ill-success,  not- 
withstanding his  extraordinary  exertions,  he  has  the 
following  remarks  in  another  passage  of  the  same 

letter: — 

**  Perpetual  failure,  even  though  nothing  in  that 
failure  can  be  fixed  on  the  improper  choice  of  objects, 
or  the  injudicious  choice  of  means,  will  detract  every 
day  more  and  more  from  a  man's  credit,  imtil  he 
ends  without  success  and  without  reputation.  In 
fact,  a  constant  pursuit  even  of  the  best  objects, 
wit/tout  adequate  insbruments^  detracts  something 
from  the  opinion  of  a  man's  judgment.    This  I  think 

*  Hardj'8  Life  of  Lord  Charlemont. 


24  LIFE  OF  THE 

may  be,  in  part,  the  cause  of  the  inacHviiy  feathers 
of  our  friends y  who  are  in  the  vigour  of^  Ufe^  and 
in  possession  of  a  great  degree  of  lead  and  au^ 
thoritjf.  *  *  * 

'^  My  particular  province  has  been  the  East  Indies. 
We  have  rest,  or  something  like  it,  for  the  present  ;s 
but  depend  upon  it  I  shall  persevere  to  the  end,  and 
shall  not  add  myself  to  the  number  of  those  bad 
examples,  in  which  delinquents  have  wearied  out 
the  constancy  of  the  prosecutors.  We  may  not  go. 
through  all  the  charges ;  I  fear  it  will  be  out  of  our 
power  to  do  this  ;  but  we  shall  give  a  specimen  of 
each  great  head  of  criminality,  and  then  call  for 
judgment.  So  far  as  to  a  general  view  of  my  sole 
share  of  business.'' 

The  trial  of  Mr.  Hastings  to  which  he  so  point- 
edly alludes  in  the  preceding  letter,  had  with  him  at 
least  lost  none  of  its  interest ;  for  the  spirit  of  an 
animated  apostrophe  which  he  addressed  to  a  friend 
on  meeting  him  in  the  street,  the  day  after  the 
impeachment  was  first  voted,  in  allusion  to  that  and 
other  political  events  of  the  moment,  seemed  stiU  to 
actuate  him.  **  What  a  proud  day,"  he  exclaimed, 
"  for  England ! — ^What  a  glorious  prospect ! — Her 
justice  extending  to  Asia — ^her  humanity  to  Africa 
— ^her  friendship  to  America— and  her  faith  anck 
good  wiU  to  all  Europe  !" 

A  bold  though  indirect  attempt  was  now  made  to 
detach  him  from  the  pursuit  of  an  object  upon 
which  he  had  already  expended  so  much  talent  and 

incidentally  stated  before  the  House  of  Lords  that 
Mr.   Hastings  had  murdered   Nundcomar  by  the 


EIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  25 

hands  of  Sir  Elijah  Impqr,  the  fonner  caused  a 
petition  to  be  presented  to  the  Commons  by  his 
agent  Major  Scott,  complaining  of  the  words  as 
irrelevant  to  the  matter  at  issue,'  and  calculated  to 
prejudice  him  in  the  opinion  of  his'  judges.  Mr. 
Burke  replied  that  they  were  not  irrelevant ;  for  in 
urging  a  charge  of  pecuniary  Corruption  against  the 
culprit,  it  was  to  be  expected  he  would' not  let  slip 
the  opportunity  of  naming  the  agent  by  whom  the 
bribe  was  conveyed  (from  Munny  Begum)  and  the 
means  by  which  such  agent  was  afterwards  got  rid 
of  when  he  had  threatened  to  become  an  accuser. 
On  the  same  subject  he  also  addressed  the  following 
letter  to  Mr.  Montague,  who  read  it  to  the  House  as 
part  of  his  speech. 

"  M  X-  DEAE  SiK, 

**  With  the  consent,  as  you  know,  and  the  appro- 
bation of  the  committee,  I  am  resolved  to  persevere 
in  the  resolution  I  had  formed,  and  had  declared  to 
the  House,  that  nothing  should  persuade  me  upon 
any  occasion,  least  of  all  upon  the  present  occasion, 
to  enter  into  a  laboured,  litigious,  artificial  defence  of 
my  conduct.  Such  a  mode  of  defence  belongs  to 
another  sort  of  conduct,  and  to  causes  of  a  different 
description. 

^*  As  a  faithful  and  ingenuous  servant,  I  owe  to 
the  House  a  plain  and  simple  explanation  of  any 
part  of  my  behaviour  which  shall  be  called  in  ques- 
tion before  them.  I  have  given  this  explanation, 
and  in  doing  so  I  have  done  every  thing  which  my 
own  honour  and  my  duty  to  the  House  could  pos- 
sibly require  at  my  hands.     The  rest  belongs  to  the 


M  LIFE  OF  THE 

House.  Thef,  I  harenodoubt,  will  act  in  a  manner 
fit  for  a  wise  body,  attentive  to  its  imputation.  I 
must  be  si^posed  to  know  scmiething  of  the  duty  of 
a  ^roseeutor  for  the  public ;  otherwise  neither  ought 
the  House  to  hare  ooiif»red  that  trust  upon  me,  nor 
ought  I  to  have  accepted  of  it.  I  have  not  been 
disapj^ved  by  the  first  abilities  in  the  kingdom, 
appointed  by  the  same  authority  not  only  for  my 
assistance,  but  for  my  direction  and  omtroul.  You 
who  hBve  honoured  me  with  a  partial  fri^idship, 
continued  without  interruption  fw  tw^ity-four 
years,  would  not  have  failed  in  giving  me  that  first 
and  most  decigdv^  proof  oi  friendship,  to  enlighten 
my  ignorance  and  to  rectify  my  mistakes.  You 
have  not  done  either ;  and  I  must  act  on  the  infer- 
ence. It  is  no  compliment  to  mention  what  is 
known  to  all  the  world,  how  well  qualified  you  are 
!for  that  office,  from  your  deep  parliamentary  know- 
ledge, and  your  perfect  acquaintance  with  all  eminent 
examples  of  the  anciait  and  modem  world. 

^  The  House  having  upon  an  opini<m  of  my  dili- 
g^ice  and  fidelity  (for  they  could  have  no  other 
motive,)  put  a  great  trust  into  my  hands,  ought  to 
give  me  an  entire  credit  for  the  veracity  of  every 
fact  I  affirm  or  deny.  But  if  they  fail  with  regard 
to  me,  it  is  at  least  in  my  power  to  be  true  to  myself. 
I  will  not  commit  myself  in  an  unbecoming  conten- 
tion with  the  agents  of  a  criminal,  whom  it  is  my 
duty  to  bring  to  justice.  I  am  a  member  of  a  com- 
mittee of  secrecy,  and  I  will  not  violate  my  trust  by 
turning  myself  into  a  defendant,  and  bringing  for- 
ward in  my  own  exculpation,  the  evidence  which  I 
have  prepared  for  his  conviction.     I  will  not  let  him 


RIGHT   HON.  XDMUND  BUBKE.  87 

know  who  the  witnesses  for  the  prosecution  are, 
nor  what  thef  have  to  depose  against  him.  Though 
I  have  no  sort  of  doubt  of  the  constancf  and  integr 
rity  of  those  witnesses,  yet  becatuse  tbey  are  men, 
and  men  to  whom,  from  my  situation,  I  owe  jhto- 
teetion,  I  ought  liot  to  expose  them  either  to  tenp- 
ti^on  or  to  danger,  I  will  not  hold  them  oat  to  be 
iji^portuned,  or  menaoed,  or  discredited,  or  run 
down,  or  possibly  to  be  ruined  in  their  fortunes  by 
the  power  aid  influence  of  this  deUnqnent ;  except 
where  the  national  service  supersedes  all  oHkt  con- 
siderations. If  I  must  suffer,  I  will  sufier  alone. 
No  man  shall  fall  a  sacrifice  to  a  feeble  sensibility  an 
my  part,  that  at  this  time  of  day  might  make  me 
Impatient  of  those  libels,  which  by  despising  through 
so  many  years,  I  have  at  length  obtained  the  honcnur 
of  being  joined  in  commission  with  this  committee, 
and  of  becoming  pn  humUe  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  public  justice. 

^*  The  only  favour  I  have  to  supplicate  from  the 
House  is,  that  their  goodness  would  spare  to  the 
weakest  of  their  members  an  unnecessary  labour ; 
by  letting  me  know  as  speedily  as  possiUe,  whether 
they  wish  to  dischai^e  me  from  my  present  oflBux^ ; 
if  they  do  not,  I  solemnly  promise  them,  that  with 
Crod's  assistance,  I  will,  as  a  member  of  their  com- 
mittee, pursue  their  business  to  the  end;  that  no 
momentary  disfavour  shall  slacken  my  diligence  in 
the  great  cause  they  have  undertaken ;  that  I  will 
lay  open  with  the  force  of  irresistible  proof,  this 
dark  scene  of  bribery,  peculation,  and  gross  pecu- 
niary corruption  which  I  have  begun  to  unfold,  and 
in  the  midst  of  which  my  course  has  been  arrested* 


28  LIFE   OF  THE 

**  This  poor  Indian  stratagem  of  turning  the 
accuser  into  a  defendant,  has  been  too  often  and  too 
uniformly  practised  by  Deby  Sing;  Mr.  Hastings, 
and  Ounga  Govind  Sing,  and  other  Banyans,  black 
and  white,  to  have  any  longer  the  slightest  effect 
upon  me,  whom  long  service  in  Indian  conunittees 
has  made  well  acquainted  with  the  politics  of  Cal- 
cutta. If  the  House  will  suffer  me  to  go  on,  the 
moment  is  at  hand  when  my  defence,  and  included 
in  it  the  defence  of  the  House,  will  be  made  in  the 
only  way  in  which  my  trust  permits  me  to  make  it, 
by  proving  judicially  on  this  accusing  criminal  the 
facts'  and  the  guilt  we  have  charged  upon  him.  As 
to  the  relevancy  of  the  facts,  the  committee  of  the 
impeachment  must  be  the  sole  judge,  until  they  are 
handed  over  to  the  court  competent  to  give  a  final 
decision  on  their  value.  In  that  court  the  agent  of 
Mr.  Hastings  will  soon  enough  be  called  upon  to 
give  his  own  testimony  with  regard  to  the  conduct 
of  his  principal ;  the  agent  shall  not  escape  from  the 
necessity  of  delivering  it ;  nor  will  the  principal 
escape  from  the  testimony  of  his  agent. 

^'  I  hope  I  have  in  no  moment  of  this  pursuit, 
(now  by  me  continued  in  one  shape  or  other  for  near 
eight  years)  shown  the  smallest  symptom  of  collusion 
or  prevarication.  The  last  point  in  which  I  could 
wish  to  show  it  is  in  this  charge,  concerning  pecu- 
niary corruption; — a  corruption  so  great  and  so 
spreading  that  the  most  unspotted  character  will  be 
justified  in  taking  measures  for  guarding  themselves 
against  suspicion.  Neither  hope,  nor  fear,  nor 
anger,  nor  weakness,  shall  move  me  from  this  trust ; 
nothing  but  an  act  of  the  House  formally  taking 


EIGHT   HON.  KDMUKD  BURKE.  99 

away  my  .commiasion,  or  totally !  cutting  off  the 
means  of  performing  it.  I  trust  we  are  all  of  us  ani« 
mated  by  the  same  sentiment 

^*  This  perseverance  in  us  may  be  called  obstinacy 
inspired  by  malice.  Not  one  of  us  however  has  a 
cause,  of  malice.  What  knowledge  have  we  of  Sir 
Elijah  Impey,  with,  whom  you  know  we  b^^n ;  or 
of  Mr.  Hastings,  whom  we  afterwards  found  in  our 
way  ?  Party  views  cannot  be  our  motive.  Is  it  not 
notorious,  that  if  we  thought  it  consistent  with  our 
duty,  we  might  have  at  least  an  eqiud  share  of  the 
Indian  interest,  which  now  is  ahnost  to  a  man 
against  us? 

«  I  am  sure  I  reverence  the  House  as  a  member 
of  parliament  and  an  Englishman  ought  to.do ;  and 
shall  submit  to  its  decision  with  due  humility.  I 
have  given  this  apology  for  abandoning  a  formal 
defence,  in  writing  to  you,  though  it  contains  in 
effect  not  much  more  than  I  have  delivered  in  my 
place.  But  this  mode  is  less  liable  to  misrepresen- 
tation and  a  trifle  more  permanent.  It  will  remain 
with  you  either  for  my  future  acquittal  or  condem- 
nation, as  I  shall  behave. 

*^  I  am,  with  sincere  affection  and  respect, 

"  My  dear  Sir, 
/^  Your  faithful  friend  and  humble  servant, 

«  Edmund  Bukke." 

Discussions  on  this  matter  took  place  in  the 
Commons  on  the  27th  and  SOth  of  April,  and  the  Ist 
and  4th  of  May,  when,  on  the  latter  day,  the  Mar- 
quis of  Graham  moved  that  the  words  complained  of 
^^  ought  not  to  have  been  spoken,"  which  was  car*- 


90  LIFE  OF  THE 

ried  bjr  k  consideraUd  majority.  Mr.  BouTerie 
immediately  moved,  **  That  the  thanks  of  this 
House  be  given  to  the  right  honourabte  £idmimd 
Burke,  and  the  rest  of  the  managers,  for  their 
exertions  and  assiduity  in  the  proaecntion  of  the 
impeachment  against  Warren  Hastings,  Esq.  and 
that  they  be  desired  to  persevere  in  the  same." 
This  being  objected  to  by  the  Master  of  the  Rolls  as 
preniattire  and  inq[>roper,  the  previous  question  was 
moved  by  him  and  carried.  The  result  of  these 
votes  gave  considerable  dfenoe  to  the  committee  of 
managers.  Two  several  meetings  were  held,  one 
the  same  evening,  the  other  the  following  morning, 
to  consider  of  the  propriety  of  surrendering  at  once 
a  laborious  duty,  in  the  performance  of  which  they 
were  thus  coldly  supported ;  but  after  some  discus- 
sion it  was  resolved  to  proceed. 

To  this  restdt  Mr.  Burke,  as  may  be  supposed, 
mainly  contributed.  From  the  first  presentation  of 
Mr.  Hastings's  petition,  countenanced  as  it  obviously 
was  by  ministry,  he  entertained  suspicion  of  a  design 
indirectly  to  interrupt,  or  wholly  to  get  rid  of  a 
proceeding,  never  very  agreeable  to  the  highest 
authority  in  the  kingdom,  by  exciting  disgust  in  the 
minds  of  those  appointed  to  carry  it  on.  This 
stratagem,  as  he  even  some  years  afterwards  con-» 
sidered  it,  he  determined  should  not  take  effect  with 
him ;  and  to  intimate  his  resolution  more  generally 
that  nothing  short  of  a  formal  vote  of  the  House  to 
remove  him,  should  slacken  his  exertions,  the  fore- 
going letter  to  Mr.  Montague  was  written. 

He  prided  himself  on  his  perseverance  on  this 
occasion.  Alluding  to  it  two  years  afterwards  in 
conversation  with  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  and  Wilkes, 


RIGHT  HON.  EBMUND  BUItKE.  81 

he  said,  '<  the  moflt  briUiant  day  of  my  hfy^  and 
tJaat  which  I  would  most  wish  to  live  orer  again^ 
was  the  day  I  appeared  at  the  bar  of  the  House  of 
Lords  with  the  censure  of  the  Conunons  in  my 
hand.  I  had  but  an  hour  to  prepare  myself;  the 
resolution  of  the  other  managers  to  proeeed  in  the 
business  having  only  just  been  taken.  Mr.  Fox 
strongly  urged  me  to  relinquish  the  prosecution  at 
that  time : — ^Mr.  Pitt  as  anxiously  hoped  I  should ; 
but  had  there  been  no  higher  motive^  no  moral  prin- 
ciple at  work  to  induce  me  to  persevere,  the  dis- 
grace of  such  a  retreat,  on  account  of  such  a  pro- 
vocation, and  the  weakness  of  mind  it  would  have 
indicated,  must  have  proved  fatal  to  any  pnUic  dla^ 
racter." 

The  following  letter  relates  to  an  earlier  stage  of 
the  proceedings;  it  is  to  Mrs.  Sheridan,  and  was 
meant  as  a  stimulant  to  the  memory  of  her  husband^ 
whose  indolence  or  n^ligence  in  public  or  private 
^(airs,  often  required  this  species  of  refresher. 

"  Madam, 
**  I  am  sure  you  will  have  the  goodness  to  excuse 
the  liberty  I  take  with  you  when  you  consider  the 
interest  which  I  have  and  which  the  public  have, 
(the  said  public  being  at  least  half  an  inch  a  taller 
person  than  I  am)  in  the  use  of  Mr.  Sheridan's 
abilities.  I  know  that  his  mind  is  seldom  unem-^ 
ployed ;  but  then,  like  all  such  great  and  vigorous 
minds,  it  takes  an  eagle  flight  by  itself  and  we  can 
hardly  bring  it  to  rustle  along  the  groimd  with  us 
birds  of  meaner  wing,  in  coveys.  I  only  beg  that 
you  will  prevail  on  Mr.  Sheridan  to  be  with  us  this 
day,  at  half  after  three,  in  the  committee.     Mr. 


SS  LIFE  OP  THE 

Wombwell,  the  paymaster  of  Ottde,  is  to  be  examined 
there  to-day.  Oude  is  Mr.  Sheridan's  particular 
province ;  and  I  do  most  serionsly  ask  that  he  would 
favour  us  with  his  assistance.  What  will  come  of 
the  examination  I  know  not ;  but  without  him  I  do 
not  expect  a  great  deal  from  it ;  with  him  I  fancy 
we  may  get  out  something  material.  Once  more  let 
me  intreat  your  interest  with  Mr.  Sheridan,  and 
your  forgiveness  for  being  troublesome  to  you,  and 
to  do  me  the  justice  to  believe  me  with  the  most 
sincere  respect, 

**  Madam,  your  most  obedient 

*'  And  faithful  humble  servant, 
*'  Thunday,  9  o'clock.  «<  Edm.  Bubke." 

Another,  addressed  to  Sheridan  himself,  iterates 
something  of  the  same  feeling  of  the  necessity  for 
pushing  forward  his  more  careless  colleague  to  the 
effectual  performance  of  the  important  duty  he  had 
undertaken ;  and  evidently  alludes  to  the  wit  having 
broken  a  previous  appointment  on  the  subject,  and 
his  own  chagrin  in  consequence  of  it. 

*«  My  DEAiL  SlE, 

**  You  have  only  to  wish  to  be  excused  to  succeed 

in  your  wishes ;  for  indeed  he  must  be  a  great  enemy 

to  himself  who  can  consent,  on  account  of  a  momen- 

•  tary  ill-humour,  to  keep  himself  at  a  distance  from 

you. 

'<  Well,  all  will  turn  out  right, — and  half  of  you, 
or  B  quarter,  is.  worth  five  other  men.     I  think  that 
^  this  cause,  which  was  originally  yoiurs,  will  be  recog- 
nized by  you,  and  that  you  will  again  possess  your- 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND   BURKE.  SS 

self  of  it.  The  owner's  mark  is  on  it,  and  all  our 
docking  and  cropping  cannot  hinder  its  being  known 
and  cherished  by  its  original  master.  My  most 
humble  respects  to  Mrs.  Sheridan.  I  am  happy  to 
find  that  she  takes  in  good  part  the  liberty  I  pre* 
sumed  to  take  with  her.  Grey  has  done  much,  and 
will  do  every  thing.  It  is  a  pity  that  he  is  not 
always  toned  to  the  full  extent  of  his  talents. 

"  Most  truly  yours, 

'*  Monday.  "  Edm.  BurKE, 

**  I  feel  a  little  sickish  at  the  approaching  day.  I 
have  read  much — ^tdo  much  perhaps — and  in  truth 
am  but  poorly  prepared.  Many  things  too  have 
broken  in  upon  me," 

Another  measure,  scarcely  less  dear  to  his  reason 
end  his  feelings,  was  the  abolition  of  the  slave  trade, 
for  which  he  pronounced  (May  12th)  an  animated 
and  argumentative  address.  '*  He  thought  the 
House,  the  nation,  and  all  Europe  under  very  great 
and  serious  obligations  to  the  honourable  gentleman 
(Mrl  Wilberforce)  for  having  brought  the  subject 
forward  in  a  manner  the  most  masterly,  impressive 
and  eloquent.  A  trade  begun  with  savage  war, 
prosecuted  with  unheard-of  cruelty,  continued  during 
the  mid-passage  with  the  most  loathsome  imprison- 
ment, and  ending  in  perpetual  exile  and  unremitted 
slavery,  was  a  trade  so  horrid  in  all  its  circumstances, 
that  it  was  impossible  a  single  satisfactory  argument 
could  be  adduced  in  its  favour.'' 

The  penal  laws  became  another  subject  for  the 
exertion  of  his  humane  spirit,  (May  28th,  on  a  bill 
for  encouraging  the  growth  of  roots,  trees,  and 

VOL.   II.  D 


34  LIFE   OP   THE 

shrubs)  reprobating  their  number  and  severityt 
stating  the  whole  system  to  be  radically  defective 
and  derogatory  to  a  civilized  country,  though  undue 
punishments  were  still  attempted  to  be  multiplied-— 
9  course  of  legislation  he  always  had  opposed,  and 
should  ever  continue  to  oppose.  A  revision  of  the 
whole  criminal  code  was  necessary,  for  in  its  present 
state  it  was  abominable.  On  the  question  of  the 
choice  of  a  Speaker  (June  8th)  he  supported  his 
friend  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot  against  the, Minister's  friend 
(Mr.  Addington,  now  Lord  Sidmouth),  and  as  a  con- 
trast perhaps  to  some  depreciating  remarks  of  Mr. 
Pitt  on  the  opposition  candidate,  laid  claim  to  a 
merit  which  has  never  been  denied  him»  **  What- 
ever faults  he  (Mr.  Qurke)  might  have,  he  never  had 
attempted  to  lower  rising  talents  in  public  esteem. 
On  the  contrary,  if  he  ever  had  any  merit,  it  was  in 
hailing  those  superior  talents  whenever  he  had  dis* 
covered  them.  The  blossoming  abilities  of  young 
members  always  afforded  him  the  highest  satis- 
faction, because  it  struck  him  as  a  renovation  of  the 
stock  of  public  talent,  and  a  pleasing  earnest  of  the 
preservation  of  the  constitution," 

These,  with  some  discussions  respecting  libels  on 
the  House,  published  in  the  paper  called  the 
**  World,"  and  several  matters  of  less  importance, 
formed  his  chief  exertions  in  parliament  imtil  its 
rising.  The  cessation  of  labour,  however,  brought 
with  it  little  pleasure,  for  the  political  horizon  pre- 
sented no  cheering  prospect.  Something  of  this 
feeling  seems  to  be  expressed  in  the  conclusion  of 
the  letter  to  Loi'd  Charlemont,  of  July  10,  1789, 
already  quoted.     "  As  to  the  politics  of  Ireland,  as 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  85 

I  see  nothing  in  them  very  pleasant,  I  do  not  wish 
to  revive  in  your  mind  what  your  best  philosophy 
is  required  to  make  tolerable.  Enjoy  your  Marino* 
and  your  amiable  and  excellent  family.  These  are 
comfortable  sanctuaries  when  more  extensive  views 
of  society  are  gloomy,  and  unpleasant,  and  unsafe.** 
m         m         m         *         m         *         * 

At  the  close  of  this  session,  indeed,  a  period  of 
parliamentary  as  well  as  of  general  tranquillity 
seemed  at  hand.  No  object  of  prominent  interest  was 
before  the  public.  The  late  contest  about  the  Regency 
had  been  set  at  rest  by  the  recovery  of  the  King. 
The  impeachment,  however  fresh  in  the  minds  of  its 
conductors,  had  lost  much  of  its  hold  on  public 
curiosity.  And  the  preceding  letter  indicated  a 
damp  on  the  mind  of  the  ^vriter  of  being  doomed  to 
some  degree  of  jwlitical  inaction,  a  state  which, 
though  he  sometimes  appeared  in  his  letters  to  covet, 
was  in  fact  wholly  alien  to  his  temperament  and 
habits;  for  these,  however  occasionally  delighted 
with  retirement,  were  in  spirit  and  by  practice  of 
the  most  active  description. 

But  a  week  had  not  elapsed  after  it  was  written, 
when  the  storming  of  the  Bastille  in  Paris,  the 
defection  of  the  army,  the  lawless  massacres  of  the 
mob,  the  flight  of  many  of  the  nobility  and  part  of 
the  royal  family,  and  the  entire  dissolution  of  the 
powers  of  government,  seemed  the  consiunmation 
by  open  outrage  of  the  moral  disorders  which  for 
two  or  three  years  had  pervaded  a  neighbouring 
kingdom. 

*  A  beautiful  villa  near  Dublin,  commanding  the  whole  sweep 
ef  the  bay,  and  much  of  the  surrounding  country. 

D  2 


36  WF^OF  THl! 

France,  in  the  eyes  of  an  Englishman,  had  for 
centuries  presented  a  striking  contrast  to  his  own 
country,  especially  in  one  conspicuous  and  leading 
point.  Long  her  equal  in  science,  in  the  arts,  in 
letters,  in  war,  abounding  in  men  of  great  genius 
and  attainments,  and  in  clear  and  extended  views^ 
and  pre-eminent  in  all  the  amenities  of  polished  life, 
she  was  yet  but  a  savage  in  the  knowledge  or  proper 
appreciation  of  freedom.  She  had  acquired  all 
things  but  that  alone  which  is  the  most  valuable  of 
all,  and  which  most  ennobles  man  in  his  own  dpi" 
nion ; — ^the  light  of  liberty  was  the  only  light  which 
had  not  shone  upon  her ;  the  spirit  to  acquire  na- 
tional freedom  was  the  only  spirit  in  which  she  had 
shown  herself  deficient.  Little  desirous  of  amending 
her  old  institutions  of  despotism,  she  had  continued 
quietly  to  submit  to  them  for  nearly  two  centuries 
after  England  had  thrown  the  greater  part  com- 
pletely off;  as  if  example  itself  in  this  most  conta- 
gious of  all  feelings,  and  occurring  even  at  her  doors, 
was  fated  to  fall  dead  to  the  ground  without  imita^ 
tion,  and  with  scarcely  a  feeling  of  sympathy.  A  por- 
tion of  this  indifference  arose  from  her  overweening 
vanity.  Conceited  beyond  all  nations,  she  despised 
whatever  was  not  her  own ;  and  wrapped  up  in  the 
splendours  of  military  glory  and  absolute  monarchy, 
she  not  only  could  not  understand  the  advantage  of 
our  more  popular  form  of  government,  but  con- 
temned it  as  inefficient  to  her  favourite  purposes  of 
war  and  aggrandizement.  With  characteristic  self- 
complacency,  some  of  her  statesmen  and  all  her 
courtiers,  pronounced  it  as  suited  only  to  a  people 
whose  national  spirit  and  manners  they  were  pleased 


RIGHT   HON.   £t>MUN0  BURKE.  ST 

to  say  partook  equally  of  barbarity.  Some  occasional 
consciousness  of  political  degradation  had  indeed 
been  exhibited  by  many  of  her  eminent  men  during 
the  preceding  fifty  years,  but  it  was  partial  and  soon 
forgotten.  The  wheels  of  government  continued  to 
roll  on,  clogged  indeed  by  the  filth  which  an  absolute 
monarchy  has  a  natural  tendency  to  engender,  but 
still  in  motion,  and  might  have  continued  still  to 
move,  had  not  financial  difficulties,  soon  after  the 
close  of  the  American  war,  precipitated  an  event  for 
which  the  people  in  power  were  wholly  unpre* 
pared. 

To  remedy  these  inconveniencies  and  to  restore 
public  credit,  the  Notables^  a  selection  from  the 
higher  order  of  each  class  of  persons  in  the  king- 
dom, were  at  length  assembled,  followed  by  the  con-* 
vocation  of  her  ancient  legislature,  the  States  Gene* 
ral,  when,  by  very  ordinary  efforts  of  honesty  and 
common  sense,  France  might  have  acquired  for 
herself  all  that  could  be  desired  in  the  way  of 
freedom  and  security.  But  the  mass  of  her  people 
were  ignorant ;  the  nobility  and  clergy  bigoted  to 
invidious  privileges  and  exemptions  above  other 
orders  in  the  state ;  the  ties  of  religion  loosened  in 
the  higher  and  middling  classes,  by  a  most  extensive 
and  extraordinary  conspiracy  of  Atheists  and  Deists ; 
the  state  of  morals,  among  the  same  classes,  scanda-* 
lously  licentious ;  and  when  the  moment  of  difficulty 
came,  the  King— himself  a  Lot  in  the  midst  of  Oo« 
moirah — ^was  compelled  to  encounter  a  most  alarm^ 
ing  state  of  things  surrounded  by  few  good  men,  and 
scarcely  a  single  wise  one. 

The  scenes  that  ensued  need  not  be  retraced ;  they 


S9  LIFE    (XF   THE 

are  painful  to  contemplate,  and  two  or  three  centu- 
ries hence  will  scarcely  be  believed.  But  the  deli- 
berative body,  the  assembled  virtue^  and  property^ 
and  tcdent  of  the  nation,  presented  the  most  fearful 
as  well  as  the  most  curious  spectacle  of  all.  It  is 
difficult  even  now  to  tell  whether  knavery  or  folly 
predominated  most  in  its  proceedings.  It  is  true 
there  were  in  it  some  clever,  and  many  good  men, 
but  these  were  far  outnumbered  by  the  designing, 
the  unprincipled,  the  ignorant ;  by  dreamers,  and 
by  speculative  philosophers  ignorant  of  the  first  ele- 
ments of  political  science,  who,  in  attempting  to  carry 
their  fancifiil  reveries  into  effect,  converted  anarchy 
into  a  species  of  system. 

They  took  a  constitution  in  hand,  as  a  savage 
would  a  looking-^glass,  or  a  boy  a  Chinese  puzzle ;  it 
was  requisite  to  pull  it  to  pieces  in  order  to  discover 
the  coheringbuthidden  charm  within.  All  the  balances 
of  the  State  were  therefore  overtiuned,  the  rights  of 
property  infringed,  distinctions  asoldas  thefoundation 
of  the  kingdom  abrogated.  There  was  no  att^npt 
made  to  retain  the  shattered  elements  of  the  State 
which  were  in  themselves  good— no  wise  design,  as 
Lord  Bacon  expresses  it,  to  weed,  to  prune,  and  to 
graft,  rather  than  to  plough  up  and  plant  all  afresh 
— ^bttt  a  seeming  desire  to  drag  up  every  thing  by 
the  roots,  to  enjoy  a  species  of  moral  chaos,  to  revel 
in  the  luxury  of  inextricable  confusion;  and  so 
generally  was  this  spirit  disseminated  that  many  of 
the  nobility  and  clergy,  whose  interei^ts  and  very 
existence  were  at  st^e  by  the  sdiemes  in  agitation, 
became  the  most  forward  instruments  of  their  own 
destruction ;  some  from  a  love  for  popularity,  but 


RIGHT   HON,   EDMUND   BURKE.  89 

the  majority  from  attar  want  of  foresight  as  to  coik* 
sequences.  Among  the  Members  of  the  Assembly, 
the  presumed  wisdom  of  the  nation,  might  be  seen 
(very  soon  afterwards  at  least)  that  theoretical  per* 
fection  of  representation  so  much  admired  by  one 
class^  oir  politicians  practically  put  to  the  test.  Every 
class  of  society,  almost  to  the  offal,  was,  as  the  drama 
advanced,  ransacked  for  deputies.  The  fruits  were 
such  as  might  b^  expected  ;  men  without  wisdomi 
without  dignity,  without  property,  without  expe« 
rience,  or  consistency  of  conduct,  whose  meetings 
had  little  of  the  character  of  deliberation,  and  whose 
deeds,  as  the  revolution  proceeded,  woiild,  but  for 
their  atrocity,  have  been  as  laughable  for  folly  as 
they  were  defective  in  every  quality  of  grave  consi^ 
deration. 

A  curious  inquirer  might  trace  among  many  of 
its  members,  and  among  the  chief  agents  who  worked 
their  way  by  their  follies  or  daring  crimes  into  the 
service  of  the  State  during  the  confusion,  a  remark- 
able animosity  in  individuals  toward  their  former 
avocations  or  attachments. 

Here  were  to  be  seen  noblemen  denouncing  the 
order  of  nobility ;  ministers  of  a  despotic  monarchy 
calling  for  a  republic;  courtiers  cutting  off  the 
King's  head ;  priests  voting  religion  a  nuisance ; 
lawyers  overturning  all  semblance  of  law  or  justice ; 
philosophers  admitting  of  no  aigument  but  the  guil* 
totine;  poets  chaunting  the  necessity  for  Uood; 
painters  coolly  catching  the  finishing  touches  of  their 
art  in  the  dying  struggles  of  the  scaffdd ;  for  all 
these  facts  literally  occurred. — Below  these  again, 
and  still  more  active  in  the  work  of  revolutionary 


40  LIFE    OF   THE 

purification^  were  tradesmen— butchers,  brewers^ 
bakers,  and  others — busily  occupied  in  thinning,  bjr 
means  of  the  guillotine,  the  mouths  they  had  contri-^ 
buted  to  feed;  and  school-masters,  musicians,  players^ 
dancing-masters,  exterminating  those  orders  of  society 
who  had  previously  formed  their  chief  or  only  means 
of  support. 

The  people  at  large  were  not  unworthy  of  such 
representatives,  and  such  authorities.  Paris,  and 
much  of  the  country,  became  transformed  into  a  den 
of  uncaged  maniacs,  acting  the  most  wild  and  hor- 
rible extravagances,  such  as  no  country  barbarous 
or  civilized  ever  before  offered ; — ^beyond  even  the 
murderous  jollities  of  Ashantee.  Were  not  the 
facts  notorious,  it  would  be  difficult  to  believe  that 
human  nature  had  been  so  bad ; — ^the  rights  of  man^ 
ostentatiously  proclaimed,  and  every  instant  atro- 
ciously violated ;  religion  defamed  and  abolished,  to 
make  way  for  the  goddess  of  reason ;  morality  de- 
rided ;  public  massacres  sanctioned ;  anarchy  legal- 
ized ;  quarter  to  English  prisoners  of  war,  disal- 
lowed by  the  public  vote  of  the  Deputies  of  the 
nation ;  proscription  and  bloodshed  decreed  to  be  the 
duty,  almost  the  recreation^  of  the  execrable  ruffians 
in  power ;  even  the  dead  torn  from  their  graves  to 
undergo  the  most  revolting  indignities.  All  the  ties 
that  bind  men  together  seemed  to  be  dissolved.  Obli- 
gations had  no  longer  power  to  conciliate,  or  grati- 
tude to  bind  the  dependant  to  his  benefactor ;  brother 
warred  with  brother;  the  son  with  his  father, 
wherever  there  appeared  the  least  hesitation  in 
dooming  to  destruction  all  who  possessed  wealth, 
rank,  or  principle.     For  about  five  years  all  Europe 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  41 

gazed  with  affright  and  astonishinent  at  this  spec^ 
tacle,  which,  embodying  the  crimes  and  barbaritied 
of  the  most  ferocious  of  mankind  within  the  compass 
of  a  single  state,  rendered  its  government  or  rather 
its  tyrants  detestable,  its  people  infamous,  and  liberty 
thus  abused  the  direst  of  all  curses. 

In  England,  the  first  movements  of  the  Revolu-^ 
tion  were  hailed  as  the  regeneration  of  a  large  portion 
of  the  human  race.  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr.  Pitt  tendered 
it  their  tribute  of  admiration.  Mr.  Burke  alone  was 
more  cautious^  or  more  penetrating.  He  professed 
to  admire  the  principle  as  much  as  any  one;  but^ 
either  from  that  uncommon  sagacity  he  had  ever 
displayed  on  great  national  questions,  from  his 
greater  age  and  consequent  experience  in  life,  from  a 
greater  knowledge  of  mankind,  or  from  a  dearer 
insight  into  the  French  character,  he  entertained 
from  the  first  some  extraordinary  misgivings  as  to 
its  mode  of  operation  and  result. 

Few  things  in  political  history  are  more  interest* 
ing  than  to  trace  the  first  symptoms  of  this  hesitation 
to  approve,  what  other  and  even  great  men  thought 
it  almost  their  duty,  instantly,  and  by  acclamation^ 
to  admire.  Among  his  first  sentiments  on  this  topic 
ccmimitted  to  paper,  if  not  the  very  first,  was  a 
letter  to  Lord  Charlemont,  dated  9th  of  August 
17899  about  three  weeks  after  the  storming  of  the 
Bastille,  in  which  he  opens  his  mind  without 
reserve : — 

*'  As  to  us  here,  our  thoughts  of  every  thing  at 
home  are  suspended  by  our  astonishment  at  the 
wonderful  spectacle  which  is  exhibited  in  a  ndgh- 
bouring  and  rival  country.     What  spectators,  and 


42  LIFE   OF   THE 

what  actoi-s  ?  Siuglaud  gating  with  astonishment  a^ 
a  French  struggle  for  liberty,  and  not  knowing 
whether  to  blame  or  to  applaud. 

*'  The  thing,  indeed,  though  I  thought  I  saw 
'  something  like  it  in  progress  for  several  years,  has 
still  somewhat  in  it  paradoxical  and  msrsterious.  The 
spirit  it  is  impossible  not  to  admire ;  but  the  old 
Parisian  ferocity  has  broken  out  in  a  shocking  man* 
ner.  It  is  true,  that  this  may  be  no  more  than  a 
sudden  explosion ;  if  so,  no  indication  can  be  taken 
from  it ;  but  if  it  should  be  character ^  rather  than 
accident,  then  that  people  are  not  fit  for  liberty,  and 
must  hare  a  strong  hand,  like  that  of  their  former 
masters,  to  coerce  them. 

'*  Men  must  have  a  certain  fund  of  natural  mode- 
ration to  qualify  them  for  freedom,  else  it  becomes 
noxious  to  themselves,  and  a  perfect  nuisance  to 
every  body  else.  ^Vhat  will  be  the  event,  it  is  hard, 
I  think,  stilK  to  say.  To  form  a  solid  constitution 
requii^es  wisdom  as  well  as  spirit ;  and  whether  the 
French  have  wise  heads  among  them,  or  if  they 
possess  such,  whether  they  have  authority  equal  to 
their  wisdom,  is  yet  to  be  seen.  In  the  mean  time 
the  progress  of  thi^  whole  affair  is  one  of  the  most 
curiousmattersof  speculation  thatever  was  exhibited.'* 

Nothing  can  be  more  unambiguous  and  unre- 
served, or  more  consistent  with  the  active  part  he 
afterwards  took,  than  this  avowal  made  in  the  con- 
ffdence  of  friendship — that  the  spirit  to  aim  at 
liH>erty  was  praiseworthy,  but  that  the  ultimate  ap- 
proval by  wise  and  good  men  must  depend  upon  the 
manner  in  which  that  desire  should  be  carried  into 
effect     The  apprehensions  which  overshadowed  his 


RIGHT   HON..  EX>MUNI>  BURKE.  43 

mind  are  obvious  in  this  letter,  and  similar  senti-^ 
meats  were  commumcated,  both  verbally  and  la 
writing,  to  other  friends.  His  judgment  might  be 
said  (without  a  figure)  to  be  suspended  over  it  like 
the  sivord  of  Damocles,  and  with  almost  equal  power 
to  destroy. 

!  In  l^e  mean  time,  with  his  accustomed  diligence, 
no  means  were  left  imtried  of  procuring  ipformation^ 
deairii^  all  his  acquaintance  in  Paris,  and  all  who 
were  going  thither,  to  transmit  him  whatever  they 
could  collect,  whether  of  a  private  nature,  or  the 
more  public  documents  which  might  appear  on  either 
side.  Among  his  correspondents  at  this  momeikti 
besides  M.  Dupont  and  other  natives  of  distinction 
of  the  reasonable  class  of  weU-wishers  to  freedom, 
were  otha»,  mostly  foreigners,  of  a  diiSrarent  stamp ; 
such  as  Mr.  Christie,  the  noted  Thomas  Paine,  wd 
the  equally  notorious  Baron  (otherwise  Anacharsis) 
Clootz ;  tiie  two  latter  more  especiallyj^ho^  though 
in  principle  the  very  fanatics  of  revolution  and 
republicanism,  were  at  .this  moment  fated  to  dup-r 
ply,  unintentionally  on  their  part,  some  of  the 
materials  which  Mr.  Burke^  with  equal  speed  and 
dexterity,  sharpened  into  their  most  powerful  anti-r 
dotes. 

To  another  correspondent,  M.  de  Menonville,  si 
relation  of  the  Baron  de  Menou  and  a  member  of 
the  National  Assembly,  who  requested  his  opinion 
of  their  affairs  towards  the  end  of  September,  1 789* 
he  wrote  early  in  the  foUowing  month,  plainly  exhi- 
biting  the  gradual  development  of  his  opinions  and 
apprehensions,  as  events  took  a  i|iore  decided  turn : 

**  As  you  are  pleased  to  think,  that  your  splendid 


44  LIFE  OF  THE 

flame  of  liberty  was  first  lighted  up  at  my  fj^int 
and  glimmering  taper,  you  have  a  right  to  call  upon 
me  for  my  sentiments  on  whatever  relates  to  that 
subject.    ♦    *    ♦    ♦ 

<^  You  may  easily  believe,  that  I  have  had  my 
eyes  turned  with  great  curiosity,  and  no  small  con** 
cemment,  to  the  astonishing  scene  now  displayed  in 
France.  It  has  certainly  given  rise  in  my  mind  to 
many  reflections,  and  to  some  emotions.  These  are 
natural  and  unavoidable ;  but  it  would  ill  become 
me,  to  be  too  ready  in  forming  a  positive  opinion 
upon  matters  transacted  in  a  country,  with  the  cor- 
rect political  map  9f  which  I  must  be  very  imper- 
fectly acquainted.  Things,  indeed,  have  already 
happened  so  much  beyond  the  scope  of  all  specula-* 
tion,  that  persons  of  infinitely  more  sagacity  than  I 
have  ought  to  be  ashamed  of  any  thing  like  confidence 
in  reasoning  upon  the  operation  of  any  principle,  or 
the  effect  o%  any  measure.  It  would  become  me 
least  of  all  to  be  so  confident,  who  ought  at  my  time 
of  life  to  have  well  learned  the  important  lesson  of 
self-distrust — a  lesson  of  no  small  value  in  company 
with  the  best  information — ^but  which  alone  can 
make  any  sort  of  amends  for  our  not  having  learned 
other  lessons  so  well  as  it  was  our  business  to  leam 
them. 

*'  I  beg  you  once  for  all  to  apply  this  corrective  of 
diffidence  in  my  own  judgment  to  whatever  I  may 
happen  to  say  with  more  positiveness  than  suits  my 
knowledge  and  situation.  Never  suppose  that  any 
appearance  that  I  may  show  of  disapprobation  to 
what  is  now  transacted  is  meant  to  express  more 
than  a  doubt.    We  have  but  one  advantage  over  you 


BIGHT  HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  45 

in  France — we  are  nearer  to  the  character  of  cool 
bye-standers. 

**  You  hope,  Sir,  that  I  think  the  French  deserv* 
ing  of  liberty.  I  certainly  do.  I  certainly  think 
that  all  men  who  desire  it,  deserve  it.  It  is  not  the 
reward  of  our  merit,  or  the  acquisition  of  our  in- 
dustry. It  is  our  inheritance.  It  is  the  birth-right 
of  our  species.  We  cannot  forfeit  our  right  to  it, 
but  by  what  forfeits  our  title  to  the  privileges  of  our 
kind,  /  mean  the  abuse  or  oblivion  of  our  national 
faculties ;  and  a  ferocious  indocility,  which  makes 
us  prompt  to  wrofng  and  violence^  destroys  our  social 
nature,  and  transforms  us  into  something  Uttie  better 
than  a  description  of  wild  beasts.  To  men  so  de- 
graded a  state  of  strong  constraint  is  a  sort  of  neces- 
sary substitute  for  freedom ;  since,  bad  as  it  is,  it 
may  deliver  them  iii  some  measure  from  the  worst 
of  all  slavery,  that  is,  the  despotism  of  their  own 
blind  and  brutal  passions.  You  have  kindly  said 
that  you  began  to  love  freedom  from  your  inter- 
course with  me.  Permit  me  then  to  continue  our 
conversation,  and  to  tell  you  what  the  freedom  is 
that  I  love.  It  is  not  solitary,  unconnected,  indivi- 
dual, selfish  liberty.  It  is  social  freedom.  It  is 
that  state  of  things  in  which  the  liberty  qfno  man, 
and  no  body  of  men,  is  in  a  condition  to  trespass  on 
the  liberty  of  any  person,  or  any  description  qfper- 
sons,  in  society.  This  kind  of  liberty  is,  indeed,  but 
another  name  for  justice,  ascertained  by  wise  laws, 
and  secured  by  well-constructed  institutions.  I  am 
sure  that  liberty  so  incorporated,  and  in  a  manner 
identified  with  justice,  must  be  infinitely  dear  to 
every  man,  who  is  capable  of  conceiving  what  it  is. 


4f6  LIFE   OF  THE 

But  whenever  a  separation  is  made  between  liberty 
and  justice,  neither  is,  in  my  opinion,  safe.  I  do 
not  believe  that  men  ever  did  submit,  certain  I  am 
that  they  never  ought  to  have  submitted,  to  the  arbi- 
trary pleasure  of  one  man,  but  under  circumstances^ 
in  which  the  arbitrary  pleasure  of  many  persons  in 
the  community,  pressed  with  an^^intolerable  hardship 
upon  the  just  and  equal  rights  of  their  fellows. 
Such  a  choice  might  be  made  as  among  evils.  The 
moment  mil  is  set  above  reason  and  justice  in  any 
community,  a  great  question  may  arise  in  sober 
minds,  in  what  part  or  portion  of  the  community 
that  dangerous  dominion  of  will  may  be  least  mis- 
chievously placed.     *     *     *     ♦ 

**  I  have  nothing  to  check  my  wishes  towards  the 
establishment  of  a    solid  and  rational  scheme  of 
liberty  in  France.     On  the  subject  of  the  relative 
power  of  nations,  I  may  have  prejudices ;  but  I  envy 
internal  freedom,  security,  and  good  order^  to  none. 
When,  therefore,  I  shall  learn  that  in  France,  the 
citizen,  by  whatever  description  he  is  qualified,  is  in 
a  perfect  state  of  legal  security,  with  regard  to  his 
life,  to  his  property,  to  the  uncontrolled  disposal  of 
his  person,  to  the  free  use  of  his  industry  and  his 
faculties ; — ^when  I  hear  that  he  is  protected  in  the 
beneficial  enjoyment  of  the  estates,  to  which,  by  the 
course  of  settled  law,  he  was  born,  or  is  provided 
with  a  fair  compensation  for  them ;  that  he  is  main- 
tained in  the  full  fruition  of  the  advantages,  belong- 
ing to  the  state  and  condition  of  life,  in  which  he  had 
lawfully  engaged   himself,  or  is  supplied  with  an 
equitable  equivalent; — ^when  I  am  assured,  that  a 
simple  citizen  may  decently  express  his  sentiments 


BIGHT  HON.   fitoMUND   BURKE.  47 

upon  public  affairs,  without  hazard  to  his  life  or 
liberty,  even  though  against  a  predominant  and 
^Ebshionable  opinion ; — when  I  know  all  thi^  of 
France,  I  shall  be  as  well  pleased  as  every  one  must 
be,  who  has  not  forgot  the  general  communion  of 
mankind,  nor  lost  his  natural  sympathy  in  local  and 
accidental  connexions." 

This  paper,  though  not  published  by  one  of  Mi*. 
Burke's  friends,  is  in  itself  too  masterly  and  too 
characteristic,  to  be  mistaken  for  the  work  of  any 
other  writer  of  the  age  ;  and  the  sentiments  surely 
are  .such,  as  the  most  ardent  lover  of  liberty  cannot 
find  fault  with.  In  a  second  communication  to  the 
same  correspondent,  he  becomes  more  explicit  as  the 
scene  itself  becomes  changed : 

"  With  regard  to  the  state  of  things  in  France  I 
am  afraid  that  as  matters  appear  to  me  at  present,  I 
cannot  at  all  agree  with  you,  until  at  least  my  infor- 
mation is  as  good  as  your's.  I  hope  you  do  not 
think  me  weak  enough  to  form  my  opinion  of  what 
is  doing  there  from  the  representations  in  news- 
papers,  much  less  upon  those  of  the  newspapers  of 
a  country  in  which  the  true  spirit  of  the  several 
transactions  cannot  be  generally  known. 

^*  As  for  me,  I  have  read,  and  with  some  attention, 
the  authorized  or  rather  equally  authentic  documents 
on  this  subject ;  from  the  first  instructions  to  the 
representatives  of  the  several  orders,  down  to  this 
time.  What  else  I  have  read  has  been  for  the 
greater  part  on  the  side  of  those  who  have  a  consi- 
derable share  in  the  formation  and  conduct  of  public 
measures.  A  great  many  of  the  most  decisive  events, 
I  conceive,  are  not  disputed  as  facts,  though,   as 


48  LIFE  OF  THE 

usual,  there  is  some  dispute  about  their  causes  and 
their  tendencies.  On  comparing  the  whole  of  fact» 
t>f  public  document,  and  of  what  can  be  discerned  of 
the  general  temper  of  the  French  people,  I  perfectly 
agree  with  you  that  there  is  very  little  likelihood  of 
the  old  government's  regaining  its  former  authority. 
Were  the  King  to  escape  from  his  palace,  where  he  is 
now,  in  reality,  a  prisoner  with  his  wife  and  almost 
his  whole  family,  to  what  place  could  he  fly  ?  Every 
town  in  France  is  a  Paris.  I  see  no  way  by  which 
a  second  revolution  can  be  accomplished.  The  only 
chance  seems  to  consist  in  the  extreme  instability  of 
-every  species  of  power,  and  the  uncertainty  of  every 
kind  of  speculation.  In  this  I  agree  with  you ;  iu 
most  other  particulars  I  can  by  no  means  go  so  far. 
That  a  police  is  established  in  Paris,  I  can  readily 
believe.  They  have  an  army,  as  I  hear,  of  6000 
men,  apparently  under  their  command.  *  ♦  ♦  ♦ 
They  have  the  means  of  preserving  quiet ;  and  since 
they  have  completely  attained  their  ends,  they  must 
have  the  disposition.  A  total  anarchy  is  a  self-destruc- 
tive thing.  JBut  if  the  same  ends  should  hereq/ier 
require  the  same  course,  which  have  been  already 
pursued,  there  is  no  dofubt  hut  the  same  Jerodous 
del^ht  in  murder,  and  the  same  savage  cruelty,  tvill 
be  again  renewed.  If  any  of  those  horrid  deeds, 
which  surely  have  not  been  misrepresented  to  us, 
were  the  acts  of  the  rulers,  what  are  we  to  think  of 
an  armed  people  under  such  rulers  ?  Or  if  (which 
possibly  may  be  the  case)  there  is  in  reality  and 
substance  no  ruler,  and  that  the  chiefs  are  driven 
before  the  people,  rather  than  lead  them  ;  and  if  the 
armed  corps  are  composed  of  men,  who   have  no 


KIGHT   HON.   ED^IUND   BURKE.  49 

£xed  principle  of  obedience,  and  are  embodied  only 
by  die  prevalence  of  some  general  inclination ;  who 
can  repnte  himself  safe  among  a  people  so  furious, 
and  so  senseless  ? 

^  As  to  the  destruction  of  the  Bastile,  of  which 
you  speak,  we  both  know  it  was  a  thing  in  itself  of 
no  consequence  whatever.  The  Bastile  was  at  first 
intended  as  a  citadel  undoubtedly ;  and  when  it  was 
built  it  might  serve  the  purposes  of  a  citadel.  Of 
late,  in  that  view,  it  was  ridiculous.  It  could  not 
contain  any  garrison  sufficient  to  awe  such  a  dty  as 
Paris.  As  a  prison  it  was  of  as  little  importance. 
Oive  despotism,  and  the  prisons  of  despotism  will 
not  be  wanting,  any  more  than  lamp-irons  will  be 
•wanting  to  democratic  fury. 

*^  In  all  appearance,  the  new  system  is  a  most 
bungling  and  unworkmanlike  performance.  I  con- 
fess I  see  no  principle  of  coherence,  co-operation,  or 
just  subordination  of  parts  in  this  whole  project,  nor 
any  the  least  aptitude  to  the  conditions  and  wants 
of  the  state  to  which  it  is  applied,  nor  any  thing 
well  imagined  for  the  formation,  provision,  or  direc- 
tion of  a  common  force.  The  direct  contrary  appears 
to  me.    ♦    ♦    ♦ 

**  Man  is  a  gregarious  animal.  He  will  by  degrees 
provide  some  convenience  statable  to  this  his  natural 
disposition;  and  this  strange  thing  (^  sygtem 
adopted  by  the  National  Assembly)  may  some  time 
or  other  assume  a  more  habitable  form.  The  fish 
will  at  length  make  a  shell  which  will  fit  him.  I 
beg  pardon  for  dwelling  so  long,  and  emplo3ring  so 
much  thought  upon  a  subject,  on  which  its  con- 
trivers have  evidently  employed  so  little.     I  cannot 

VOL.  II.  E 


50  LIFE   OF   THE 

think,  with  you,  that  the  Asgembly  have  done  ranch. 
They  have,  indeed,  undame  a  great  deal;  and  so 
eompletdy  broken  up  their  country  as  a  Slate,  tiiat 
I  assure  you  there  are  few  here  such  a$UigaUUaM 
as  not  to  feel  some  pity  on  the  deplorable  view  of 
the  wreck  of  Franoe.  I  confess  to  you,  that  till  I 
saw  it,  I  could  not  conceive  that  any  men  in  pnhUc 
could  have  shown  so  little  mercy  to  their  country. 

**  You  say,  my  dear  sir,  they  read  Montesquieu — 
I  believe  not.  If  they  do,  they  do  not  understand 
him.  He  is  often  obscure,  sometimes  misled  by 
system ;  but  on  the  whole,  a  learned  and  ingenious 
writer,  and  sometimes  a  most  profound  thinker. 
Sure  it  is  that  they  have  not  followed  him  in  any 
one  thing  they  have  done.  Had  he  lived  at  this 
tune,  he  would  certainly  be  among  the  fugitives  from 
France.  With  regard  to  the  other  writers  you 
speak  of,  I  do  believe  the  directors  of  the  present 
system  to  be  influenced  by  them !  Such  masters ! 
Such  scholars !  Who  ever  dreamt  of  Voltairo  and 
Rosseau  as  l^islators  ?  The  first  has  the  merit  of 
writing  agreeably;  and  nobody  has  ever  united 
blasphemy  and  obscenity  so  happily  together.  The 
other  was  not  a  little  deranged  in  his  intellects,  to 
my  almost  certain  knowledge.  But  he  saw  things 
in  bold  and  uncommon  lights,  and  he  was  very  elo- 
quait, — ^But  as  to  the  rest,  I  have  read  long  sinoe 
tiie  Omtrat  Social.  It  has  left  very  few  traces 
upon  my  mind.  I  thought  it  a  performance  of  little 
or  no  merit ;  and  little  did  I  conceive  that  it  could 
ever  make  revolutions,  and  give  law  to  nations. 
Butsoit  is.  I  see  some  people  here  are  wUlingthat 
we  should  become  their  scholars  too,  and  reform  our 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  51 

Slate  on  tha  French  modek  They  haire  begun ;  and 
it  k  high  time  for  thooe  who  wish  to  prttorve 
m»em  nuiffomm  to  look  about  them.'' 

At  the  time  this  was  written^  few  indeed  oonld 
agree  in  (^anion  with  the  sagaetotta  writer,  of  the 
evils  attendant  on  the  Bavohition*  Yek  after  every 
idkfwanee  tar  die  generous  feelings  of  the  moment 
in  fiMmir  of  a  phantom  which  bore  some  xesem* 
bkmce  to  fireedom,  all  consUsrate  men  nmst  have 
been  oonvineed,  that  the  utter  subversion  of  every 
institutiQii  long  established  in  a  State,  can  neveat^ 
under  any  circumstances^  be  justifiable  or  wise* 
Bven  great  changes  in  the  supreme  authoritiesi 
tiiough,  perhaps,  sometimes  neoassary,  are  alwajrs 
fearfiolly  dangerous.  They  must  not  be  adopted  but 
in  the  last  extremity,  and  then  managed  only  by  the 
most  delicate  and  experienced'  hands.  Bartbqpudces 
and  hurricanes  possibly  produce  good,  but  fiew.  sdber 
men  like  to  be  within  the  sphere  of  their  operation. 
It  is  just  so  with  revolutions.  The  good  is  often 
praUematicBl.  The  way  to  it  at  least  is  tiirough  a 
hog  of  confusion  and  evil^  a  quagmire  of  moral 
deaolation-^-mf  over-turned  la/ws,  property,  and  con*- 
nezioBa-^in  which  wantonly  to  throw  down  every 
ancient  land-onark,  is  wiUuIly  to  wander  out  of  the 
road,  to  sink  deeper  at  every  step  we  take,  and  ts 
plunge  into  ineztricaUe  difficulties  which  destroy 
every  hope  of  attaining  the  destination  in  view. 
Such,  however,  was  the  effect  of  example,  that  amny 
penons  in  England^  disregarding^Ae  blessings  of  the 
peaotical  fivedom  they  enjoyed,  pnxfessed  not  only 
to  admire  tlie  speculative  reveries  of  France,  but  a 
wish  to  put  seme  of  the  principal  of  them  iste 

£  2 


52  LIFE   OF   THE 

practice.  The  delusion  was  widely  spread  and 
deeply-rooted, — ^more  general,  indeed,  than  it  is  now 
easy  or  agreeable  to  believe  ;  nor  did  it,  with  a  few 
even  of  our  greatest  men,  speedily  pass  away. 

A  domestic  affliction  about  this  time  detached  his 
mind  for  a  moment  from  contemplating  public  evils, 
to  experience  personally  imfeigned  private  sorrow-— 
a  more  vulnerable  point  of  suffering,  as  even  the 
most  patriotic  spirit  must  confess,  to  all  men.  This 
was  the  death  of  his  sister,  Mrs.  French.  A  variety 
of  private  circumstances  had  tended  to  keep  up  little 
more  than  an  epistolary  communication  during  life, 
yet  still  with  a  hope  fondly  entertained  by  both,  of 
spending  the  evening  of  their  lives  nearer  to  each 
other.  To  a  friend  and  neighbour  of  Mrs.  French's 
family  (Oliver  Dolphin,  Esq.  of  Loughrea,  Ireland) 
he  addressed  the  following  letter  shortly  after  hearing 
of  the  melancholy  event. 

"  Dear  Sir, 
.  **  I  have  just  received  the  afflicting  news  of  my 
poor  sister's  death.  You  who  knew  her  best,  know 
the  loss  that  I  have  had.  Indeed,  though  four  and 
twenty  years  have  passed  since  I  had  the  happiness 
of  seeing  her,  her  virtues  which  endeared  her  to  me 
much  more  than  our  nearness  of  relation,  have  made 
this  misfortune  truly  afflicting  to  me.  The  will  of 
Providence  had  separated  us  for  a  great  (the  much 
greater)  part  of  our  lives — ^and  now  the  same 
Sovereign  dispensation  has  separated  us  on  this  side 
of  the  grave  for  ever.  She  was  one  of  the  best- 
hearted  of  the  human  race.  I  was  in  some  hopes  at 
times  that  t  might  make  the  latter  part  of  a  life 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  SS 

spent  under  difficulties  and  afflictions  a  little  plea- 
sant  to  her.  But  that  hope  which  I  believe  was 
hers,  and  my  consolation  is  vanished — and  this  is 
one  of  the  greatest  and  most  mortifying  disappoint-; 
ments  I  have  felt  through  life. 

'^  Sir,  I  do  not  know  in  what  relation  you  stand 
to  a  gentleman  of  your  name,  Mr.  Redmond  Dol- 
phin, whom  very  many  years  ago  I  had  the  honour 
of  knowing  and  esteeming,  as  all  did  with  whom  he 
was  acquainted.  Whatever  your  relation  to  him 
may  be,  your  relation  to  me  by  your  kindness  to  my 
poor  sister,  and  your  protection  to  my  afflicted  niece, 
is  very  close  and  strong.  I  am  indeed  infinitely 
obliged  to  you.  Continue  to  comfort  her  with  the 
same  humanity  with  which  you  have  begun,  until 
my  friend  Mr.  Kieman  can  do  something  for  her 
settlement.  I  am  afraid  that  my  poor  sister  had 
not  the  consolation  of  seeing  him  before  her  depar- 
ture *  *  *  Be  assured  that  I  am  tlioroughly  sen- 
sible of  my  obligations  to  you  and  to  your  family,  to 
whom  I  have  not  the  happiness  to  be  known,  but  to 
whom  I  wish  you  to  present  my  most  sincere 
acknowledgments. 

**  I  am,  with  the  greatest  respect  and  regard, 

«  Dear  Sir, 
I*  Your  most  faithful  and  obliged  humble  servant, 

"  Beaoonsaeld,  Jan.  12, 1790."  '  "  Edm.  BurkE." 

♦  «  ♦  «  « 

Since  the  above  was  transcribed  for  the  press,  the 
following  letters,  in  the  original,  addressed  to  Mrs. 
French  by  her  brother  Edmund,  his  lady  and  son, 
and  also  from  her  brother  Richard,  have  been  put 
into  the  hands  of  the  writer  by  a  gentleman  whose 


54  LIFE   OF   TH£ 

retetioBfihip  to  the  parties  randefs  his  eonmiiuika* 
tlons  as  valuaUe  and  authentic  as  th^  are  kind. 
Those  given  here,  are  a  selection  from  among  many 
ofliers  which  relate  solely  to  tamily  oflfairs.  They  are 
a  discovery  made  only  within  a  few  weeks,  having 
been,  it  appeajrs,  carefolly  put  away  in  a  bundle  of 
other  papers,  deposited  with  an  intimate  friend  of 
Mrs.  French's  family,  and  not  opened  for  a  pariod  of 
nearly  forty  years. 

The  first  is  from  Mrs.  Burke,  the  wife  of  Edmund, 
addressed  to  Mrs.  French  on  her  miuriage,  by  which 
it  appears  that  her  zealous  and  industrious  husband, 
who  had  just  commenced  his  first  session  with  the 
Rockingham  party,  was  so  immersed  day  and  night 
in  ministerial  business,  that  he  had  only  time  to 
addashwt  postscript  to  the  letter,  expressive  of  hk 
satisfkction  on  the  occasion. 

^  I  most  truly  and  affectionately  wish  you,  my 
dear  sister,  joy  on  the  change  you  have  made  in  Hfe. 
It  is  a  dbtange  that  I  make  not  the  least  doubt  will 
insure  hq^iness  to  you,  and  to  all  your  friends  the 
pleasure  and  satisfaction  that  an  union  made  by  you 
must  give  them;  we  are  all  very  happy  in  being 
connected  with  a  man  of  Mr.  French's  character, 
which  Mr.  Ridge  has  very  fully  and  very  Satis- 
factorily given  us.  I  wish  you  many  years  to  enjoy 
the  satis£Action  and  happiness  that  lies  before  you ; 
and  many  years  I  hope  you  will  live  to  enjoy  it ;  I 
can  only  add  my  prayers  and  hearty  wishes  that  you 
(diould,  which  I  do  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart.  I 
leave  it  to  you,  and  surely  I  cannot  leave  it  in  better 
hands,  to  make  my  love  to  Mr.  French.    I  wish  I 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE«  5fi 

had  it  in  my  pow^  to  wish  you  both  joy  myself  l^ 
word  of  mouth,  but  I  hope  before  the  summer  is 
over  I  shall  do  so,  as  we  think,  if  possible,  to  taike  a 
turn  to  Ireland  about  that  time. 

•*  I  had  wrote  thus  far  when  I  got  your  letter, 
and  it  makes  us  all  very  happy  to  hear  you  are  well, 
and  so  much  pleased  with  your  present  situation. 
Ned  is  so  taken  up  that  he  has  scarce  time  to  eat, 
drink,  or  sleep ;  he  has  not  been  in  bed  this  week 
until  three  or  four  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  his 
hurry  will  not  be  over,  I  am  afraid,  the  whole 
winter.  If  he  can  he  will  add  to  this,  but  if  he 
should  not  be  able  so  to  do,  I  am  sure  you  will  not 
doubt  of  his  love  and  affection  for  you  both.  Dick* 
is  not  yet  come  home,  but  we  expect  him  every  day, 
nay  he  may  be  here  before  I  seal  this,  and  if  he  is, 
you  shall  hear  of  him. 

**  Your  nqphewf  is  grown  very  stout,  strong,  and 
tall  J  he  is  at  school  about  four  miles  from  town,  at 
present  learning  Latin,  and  very  eager  he  is  at  it ;  he 
does  not  forget  his  aunt  Julia,  nor  her  goodness  to 
him.  He  is  to  be  home  on  Saturday  for  a  week, 
which  he  has  got  on  account  of  his  birth-day,  so 
that  you  see  what  consequence  a  birth-day  is  to  tis 
now. 

<<  Mr.  William  Burke  desires  I  would  assure  you 
from  him  how  happy  he  is  at  every  thing  that  gives 
you  pleasure,  and  that  he  sincerely  wishes  you  joy 
on  the  present  occasion.  My  father  joins  in  the 
same  wish,  and  in  love  and  compliments  to  Mr. 
French  and  you :  believe  me,  my  dear  sister,  no  one 

*  Richard  Burke.  t  It  Burke,  Jun.  her  ion. 


56  LIFE   OF   THE 

more'  truly  and  afiectioiiateljr  loves  you,  or  wishes* 
for  every  happiness  to  attend  you  more  than  your 
affectionate  sister  and  humble  servant. 

«  Queen  Anne  Street,  «  JaNE  BueKE*'* 

''  Feb.  6, 1766.*' 

The  P.  S.  itom  Edmund  bears  evident  traces  in* 
the  MS.  as  well  as  in  the  style,  of  being  written  in 
haste. 

«  My  dear  Julian. 
^  Upon  my  word  I  have  only  time  to  say  I  most 
heartily  wish  you  and  Mr.  French  much  joy ;  and  to 
you  both  the  good  sense  and  good  nature  to  make  it 
your  endeavour  to  contribute  all  you  can  to  one 
another's  happiness :  I  wish  you  both  many  years 
enjoyment  of  it,  and  am,  with  my  re^;ards  to  my 
brother,  my  dear  Julia, 

^  Your  most  affectionate, 

"  E.  BUBKE." 

The  following,  written  by  the  mother  of  Edmund, 
Mrs.  Mary  Burke,  to  her  niece,  Mrs.  Henessy,  gives 
an  aocoimt  of  her  daughter,  (Mrs.  French's)  conlBne- 
ment  of  the  daughter  who  afterwards  became  Mrs. 
Haviland ;  and  likewise  some  particulars  of  her  son's 
visit  to  Loughrea  immediately  after  the  dissolution 
of  the  first  Roddngham  administration,  with  a  just 
tribute  of  maternal  admiration  to  his  heart  and 
understanding. 

"  Loughrea,  October  85, 1706L 

**  My  deab  Nelly. 
**  The  last  post  brought  me  your  very  agreeable 
and  welcome  letter,  and  I  am  greatly  pleased  to  hear 


KI6HT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  57 

that  you  and  our  friends  with  you  are  all  well,  and' 
am  sure  it  will  be  very  agreeaUe  to  you  to  hear,  that 
poor  Julia  is  doing  as  well  as  can  be  expected  *  *  *• 
It  happened  on  the  evening  of  the  day  that  her 
brothers  and  sister  set  off  for  Dublin. 

^  I  believe  I  need  not  tell  you  that  my  pleasure 
in  having  them  here,  where  I  kept  them  constantly 
in  view  during  the  period  of  their  stay,  was  heartily 
dashed  at  parting.  All  the  gentlemen  and  ladies  of 
this  town  and  neighbourhood  made  a  point  to  visit 
them,  and  they  had  as  many  invitations  to  dinner^ 
had  they  thought  fit  to  accept  them  all,  as  would 
have  occupied  a  great  many  days.  Mr.  French,  of 
Rasan,  was  (absent)  in  Corke  when  they  came  to  this 
country ;  but  on  the  morning  after  his  arrival,  he^ 
Miss  Nagle,  Mrs.  CXFlaherty,  and  Miss  DriscoII 
came,  here,  and  two  days  after  we  were  all  engaged 
at  Rasan,  where  we  dined,  and  could  not  well  get 
from  thence  that  night,  and  it  was  with  much  to  do 
Jane  and  I  could  get  away. 

^  Mr.  French,  (of  Rasan)  Ned  and  Dick  went  to 
look  at  Gtolway,  and  at  a  great  lake  which  is  near  to 
it:  as  soon  as  they  arrived  in  the  town  the  beUs 
were  set  ringing  in  honour  of  them ;  on  the  Monday 
following  the  C!orporation  met  and  voted  the  freedom 
of  tfai^  City  to  Ned,  to  be  sent  to  him  in  a  silver 
box.  My  dear  Nelly,  I  believe  youll  think  me  iwry 
vain,  but  as  you  are  a  mother,  I  hope  you  will  excuse 
it.  I  assure  you  it  is  not  the  honours  that  are  ^ione 
him  which  make  me  vain  of  him,  but  the  goodness 
of  his  heart,  than  which  I  believe  no  man  living  has 
a  better ;  I  am  sure  there  cannot  be  a  better  son,  nw 
I  think  a  better  daughter-in-law,  than  his  wife.     I 


58  LIFE   OF   THE 


will  say  nothing  of  Diok^  for  you  would  have  no 
longer  patience  with  me  *  *  *  *• 

«  This  is  a  very  agreeable  town  to  live  in,  and  I 
believe  there  is  not  another  in  Ireland  so  small  that 
has  in  it  so  many  families  of  fortune  as  residents. 
I  hope  to  be  in  Dublin  about  the  middle  of  next 
month,  where  I  shall  find  a  great  change  from  a  very 
good  table  of  two  courises,  and  abroad  a  coach  and 
six  to  take  the  air,  to  return  to  a  leg  of  mutton,  and 
otherwise  a  plain  style  of  living  at  home  and  of 
going  abroad.  However,  I  will  be  as  content  with 
tile  latter  as  with  the  former,  and  will  think  m]r8elf 
very  happy  if  it  pleases  God  to  preserve  me  the  few 
children  I  have  left  alive  and  well  *♦♦♦♦.  i 
have  filled  my  paper,  and  have  only  room  left  to 
wish  you  all  haj^ness,  and  to  believe  me  to  be 

<'  Your  most  aflfectionate  aunt^ 

'^  Ma&y  Burke/* 

Some  further  particulars  of  the  election  for  Bristol 
lure  given  by  Mr.  Burke  himself  in  the  fcrfloMring 
communication,  written  from  the  scene  of  contest-— 

'*  My  dear  Sister, 
^  I  seldom  write  to  you,  or  to  my  brother  French; 
I  am  a  bad  correspcNident  at  the  best.  But  believe 
mc^  you  are  neither  of  you  ever  out  of  my  mind 
or  estranged  from  my  affections.  If  it  were  in  my 
power  to  contribute  any  thing  to. your  ease,  advan- 
tage, or  satisfaction,  I  would  most  cheerfully  do  it 
But  the  part  I  have  acted,  and  must  continue  to  act, 
whilst  things  continue  as  they  are,  mak^  me  a  very 


BIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  59 

ingignificant  person.  The  only  reeempenee  I  have 
is,  that  I  tometimes  receiye  some  marks  of  public 
approbation.  I  know  it  will  give  you  both  pleasure 
to  hear,  that  after  having  been  elected  for  Malton  in 
Yorkshire,  several  respectable  people  of  this  dty 
invited  me  to  stand  a  candidate  here,  and  that  J  am 
dected  by  a  niajarity  of  251,  after  one  of  the  longest 
and  warmest  contests  that  has  been  remembered. 
The  party  that  has  lost  the  election  threatens  a  peti- 
tion ;  but  I  am  satisfied  they  have  no  solid  grounds 
to  proceed  upon.  The  election  has  lasted  a  month. 
I  was  put  in  nomination  several  days  before  I  came 
hither.  My  absence  gave  the  other  party  great  ad- 
vantages. My  brother,  who  was  in  London,  wh^i 
the  messengers  from  this  city  arrived  at  my  house 
there,  came  to  Bristol  and  prevented  our  affairs  from 
suffering  so  much  as  otherwise  they  would  have  done 
by  my  absence.  For  I  was  then  two  hundred  and 
twenty  milcB  from  London,  and  870  at  least  from 
Bristol.  Hiis  event  has  given  us  all  great  satis- 
foction,  and  will  give,  I  trust,  a  great  deal  to  you. 
This  is  the  second  city  in  the  kingdom ;  and  to  be 
invited,  and  chosen,  for  it  without  any  request  of 
mine,  at  no  expense  to  myself,  but  with  much  chaige 
and  titrable  to  many  public«spirited  gaitlemen,  is  an 
honour  to  whidi  we  ought  not  to  be  insensible. 

*'  Your  sister  was  well  when  I  heard  from  her. 
Since  I  left  London  thieves  broke  into  our  howe  in 
town ;  but  they  were  discovered  before  they  could 
take  away  any  thing  valuable;  and  Mrs.  Burke, 
who  is  used  to  receive  expresses  at  all  hours  of  the 
night,  hearing  an  alarm  in  the  house,  thought  it  aa 


60  LIFE   OF   THE 

express  from  Bristol,  and  therefore  was  much  less 
frighted  than  otherwise  she  would  have  been.  The 
robbers  made  their  escape. 

^  Your  nephew,  Richard,  has  returned  from 
France,  and  is  now  at  the  University  of  Oxford. 
Your  brother  joins  me  in  the  most  affectionate  re- 
gards to  you,  to  my  brother,  and  your  little  one. 
Adieu  my  dear  sister,  and  believe  me  your  ever 

affectionate  brother, 

'^  Edmund  Bubke. 

'^  Bristol,  Nov.  2cL  1774." 

To  his  cousin,  Mrs.  Henessy,  he  was  obliged  to 
communicate  the  disappointment  of  some  hopes  he 
had  been  inadvertently  the  cause  of  exciting — 

«  My  dear  Nelly, 
^*  I  send  you  enclosed  the  copies  of  two  letters, 
which  cannot  be  more  displeasing  to  you  than  they 
were  to  me.  I  send  them  to  let  you  see,  when  I 
gave  you  hopes,  I  had  reason  to  hope  myself,  and 
that  if  you  are,  as  you  must  be,  cruelly  disappointed, 
the  fault  is  not  mine.  The  gentleman,  the  copy  of 
whose  letter  you  have,  is  a  young  maa  of  an  excel- 
lent character,  large  fortune,  and  my  particular 
friend.  I  had  not  the  least  idea  given  to  me  of  a 
purchase,  Thad  never  heard  of  any  such  thing  be- 
fore in  the  Company's  service ;  and  I  had  actually 
given  my^  thanks  to  this  gentleman,  and  to  another 
friend,  as  for  a  favour  gratuitously  obtained.  The 
cause  of  my  turning  my  thoughts  to  a  military  esta- 
blishment in  India  for  your  son,  was  upon  an  appli- 
cation from  Mrs.  French,  of  Rahasane,  to  procure  a 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  61 

Cadetcy  for  a  friend  of  hers.  Whilst  I  was  in  pur- 
suit of  this  object  my  friend  pointed  out  to  me  a 
Lieutenancy  in  the  new  Clorps,  as  a  thing  much 
better,  and,  as  he  conceived,  fiill  as  easily  obtained. 
He  spoke  so  'warmly,  and  just  at  that  instant  I 
seemed  to  have  so  good  an  interest,  that  I  spoke  for 
two.  My  first  thoughts  were  for  James  Nagle,  of 
the  Somersetshire  Militia,  who  has  already  engaged 
in  the  military  line,  but  on  a  peace  would  be  left 
wholly  unprovided  and  helpless.  But  on  further 
recollection,  as  he  has  some  immediate  means  of 
subsistence,  and  that  as  it  was  not  impossible  that 
between  this  and  the  time  of  peace  I  might  get  him 
into  some  old  regiment,  I  turned  my  mind  to  you  ; 
and  actually  got  from  Mr.  Pitt*  a  power  of  changing 
my  nomination.  I  actually  got  a  promise  both  for 
Mrs.  French's  friend  and  for  your  son.  How  I  have 
been  disappointed  you  see. 

^  This,  my  dear  friend,  is  a  true  history  of  the 
affair,  an  affair  perfectly  vexatious  to  me.  I  am 
not  apt  to  raise  expectations  in  my  friends.  The 
part  which  my  opinion  of  duty  obliges  me  to 
take  in  public  gives  me  no  opportunity  of  serving 
them ;  and  I  should  be  sorry  to  become  the  means 
of  deceiving  them.  Ned  Barrett  sticks  in  my 
stomach  for  many  years.  But  I  believe  he  is  good 
enough  to  think  that  if  I  have  deceived  him,  I  was 
first  imposed  on  myself.  My  wife  desires  her  affec- 
tionate compliments  to  you,  to  your  father,  and  the 
whole  family.  My  brother  and  son  are  on  the 
Circuit,  one  in  the  North,  the  other  in  the  West. 

*  A  relative  of  the  future  Minister. 


6li  LIFE  OF  THE 

Will  you  forgive  the  disappointmait  I  have  caused 
to  you? 

**  I  am  ever  with  aiacera  affection^ 
^  My  dear  CouaiB^ 
^  Your  faitiifttl  firiaad  and  kinaman, 

**  Edmund  Bueks. 

''  BetflonsfieU,  Sept  5,  1781/' 

Inuxiediately  after  the  accession  of  the  Whigs  to 
office  in  I78S5  the  event  was  conununicated  to  their 
nlation,  in  the  following  joint  letter  from  the  two 
Richards^  unde  and  n^hew»  and  Mrs*  BurJk^^- 

"  My  deab  Sister, 

*^  I  should  not  know  how  to  begin  or  end  a  letter 
to  you,  if  I  had  not  the  most  perfect  reUaace  on 
your  good  nature  and  love  for  ua  all*  Iiubed  my 
dearest  Julia,  my  long  cruel  silence  has  not  been 
from  neglect,  much  less  from  choice.  Surely  our 
akter  will  not  think  that  she  ivas  for  a  moment  for* 
got  by  either  of  her  brothers,  by  her  sister,  to  whom 
she  is  very  dear,  or  her  nephew,  to  whom  we  are  all 
dear.  We  do  not  choose,  however,  to  enter  into 
many  particular  reasons  for  that  silence  in  a  past 
letter;  we  wtirely  trust  to  your  good  sense,  and 
your  good  nature  on  that  occasion. 

'^  I  am  very  sorry  that  it  was  not  in  the  power  of 
any  of  us  to  be  the  first  to  inform  you  of  the  late 
dianges ;  your  nephew  during  the  whole  time  was 
absent  from  town  on  the  Northern,  and  I,  on  the 
Western  CijMniit  Edmund  was  too  much  involved 
in  business,  and  I  am  very  little  less.  You  have, 
however,  some  time  since  been  fully  informed  of  the 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  68 

r 

kite  changes  here ;  and  you,  therefdre,  know,  that 
after  seventeen  years  of  the  most  laborious  and 
general  service.  His  Majesty  has  been  pleased  to  take 
your  brother  Edbnnnd  into  his  mora  inmiediate 
service.  He  is  Paymaster,  and  sworn  into  the  Privy 
Ciouncil.  Ridiard  is  his  Deputy  Paymaster,  and  I 
(through  him),  am  Secretary  to  the  Treasury,  an 
office  perfectly  to  my  satisfaction  in  every  respect 
My  dear  sist^,  you  have  been  the  first  object  of 
Edmund's  thoughts  and  attention,  and  measures  are 
idready  taken  for  putting  you  and  your  daughter  at 
your  ease;  for  the  present  we  send  for  your  im- 
mediate use  one  hundred  pounds  English,  through 
Mr.  Kieman.  He  will  forward  this  letter  to  jmi, 
and  receive  your  direction  for  the  money.  May 
God,  my  dear  sister,  bless  you  and  your  child ;  Idss 
her  for  us,  and  tell  her  iSbBt  we  love  her  heartily, 
and  bid  her  love  us  even  without  knowing  us.  Adieu, 
my  dear  woman,  and  believe  me, 

**  Your  truly  affectionate  brother, 

**  RiCHAED  BUUKE. 

"  London,  6th  ApriL 

<<  Let  us  hear  from  you  immediately ;  direct  to 
either  of  us  or  to  your  sister." 

**  My  deaaest  Aunt, 

**  Since  I  have  so  long  delayed  what  I  ought  long 
ago  to  have  done,  I  mean  opening  a  correspondence 
with  you,  I  am  happy  to  be  able  to  do  it  at  a 
moment  which  promises  that  our  acquaintance  will 
not  be  confined  to  letters.  Till  very  lately  my  hopes 
of  seeing  you  were  far  removed,  now  I  trust  we 


64  LIFE   OF   THE 

shall  not  be  very  long  asunder.  There  is  nothing 
Unore  near  my  heart  than  to  see  all  those  united 
together  in  place  and  in  happiness,  who,  I  trust,  are 
-most  cordially  so  in  affection.  You  hardly  remember 
me  I  am  afraid ;  if  you  do  it  is  but  as  a  child ; 
since  I  have  been  otherwise  you  have  iio  great 
reason  to  be  pleased  with  me.  I  only  remember 
you  by  the  impressions  which  your  kindness  to  my 
childhood  made  on  me.  Some  day  or  other  I  hope 
to  convince  you  that  they  are  strong  and  sincere ;  at 
present  I  can  only  persuade  you  of  my  affection,  by 
4;dling  you,  that  as  I  love  my  father  and  my  unde, 
for  their  sakes,  with  whom  I  am  more  acquainted,  I 
.cannot  be  indifferent  to  you.  Do  me  the  favour  to 
write  to  me,  and  let  me  know  all  circumstances 
which  concern  you  and  yours.  There  is  one  person 
in  whom  I  am  much  interested ;  her  indeed  I  do  not 
know,  for  she  was  bom  since  I  saw  you.  I  mean 
my  cousin.  Assure  her  of  my  sincere  affections. 
She  is  indeed  the  nearest  relation  I  have  that  any 
way  approaches  to  my  time  of  life.  I  wish  most 
impatiently  to  see  both  her  and  you,  and,  as  many 
of  the  circimistances  which  have  separated  us  are 
now  removed^  that  time  is,  I  hope,  not  far  distant. 
My  father  and  uncle  are  bpth  in  perfect  health,  par- 
ticularly the  first,  I  believe  a  little  altered  from  what 
you  remember  them,  but  not  much.  My  mother 
perfectly  well ;  she  will  conclude  this  letter  by  tell- 
ing you  that  she  loves  you.  Give  my  love  to  my 
Cousin,  and  desire  her  to  write  to  me.  Adieu  my 
dear  Aunt,  and  believe  to  be  your  affectionate  and 
dutiful  nephew,  "  Richard  Burke. 

"  London,  April  7th,  1782." 


EIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  66 

"  My  dear,  dear  Sister, 
•*  I  never  wrote  to  you  with  more  heartfelt  satis- 
faction than  I  do  at  present,  for  I  can  tell  you,  that 
now  we  can  be  a  comfort  and  use  to  you,  my  dear 
sister,  and  my  dear  little  niece,  whom  we  all  love. 
I  got  your  letter,  and  the  deed  is  making  out  to 
enable  Mr.  Burke  to  resign  the  lease  in  Mr.  William 
Burke's  name.  But  as  you  have  the  lease,  we  ought 
to  know  whether  the  old  lease  is  for  lives  or  years. 
This  you  must  tell  us  as  soon  as  possible.  Mr. 
Burke  says  you  may  now,  as  you  have  qual\fied^ 
take  it  in  your  own  name,  which  will  be  the  best 
way  of  doing  it.  My  Jove  to  my  little  niece,  and  I 
am,  dear  sister,  ever  yours  affectionately, 

^'  April  6th,  1782."  "  JaNE  BurkE. 

*  This  alludes  to  the  repeal  some  time  before  of  certain  clauses 
in  the  Penal  Laws  against  the  Roman  Catholics.  Mr.  Burke  had 
good  reason  to  detest  this  abominable  code,  not  merely  as  an 
enlightened  statesman,  but  from  the  evil  effects  it  had  produced 
in  his  own  fanulj.  Mr.  French,  who  was  of  that  communion, 
possessed  a  handsome  personal  property  at  the  time  of  his  mar- 
xiage  with  Miss  Burke,  but  being  unable  to  purchase  lands,  or 
otherwise  invest  it  in  a  secure  and  permanent  way  on  account 
of  being  restricted  in  such  disposal  of  his  money,  by  the 
grinding  oppression  of  the  laws  in  question,  embarked  it  in  build- 
ing houses  on  the  lands  of  others,  and  in  farming  and  gnuing 
upon  an  extensive  scale.  In  neither  pursuit  was  he  very  suc- 
oessfuL  A  great  mortality  among  sheep  and  cattle  some  years 
afterwards  almost  rumed  him ;  and  between  repairs,  bad  tenants, 
and  the  lapse  of  leases,  his  houses  proved  little  more  profitable. 
The  consequence  was  the  involvement  of  his  family  in  occasional 
difficulties,  which  Edmund,  out' of  his  own  scanty  income,  re- 
lieved at  all  times  with  a  generosity  and  kindness  tcaly  cha* 
racteristic  of  the  man,  and  of  which  (and  to  others  as  well),  were 
it  necessary  ostentatiously  to  parade  such  matters  beforp  the 
public— the  writer  could  furnish  a  great  variety  of  instances. 

VOL.  II.  F 


66  LIFE  OF   THE 

After  the  accession  of  the  Coalition  Ministry  to 
office,  when  her  brother's  prospects  again  brightened, 
Mrs.  French  received  the  following  (among  others, 
not  preserved)  from  Mrs.  Burke,  expressive  of  the 
anxiety  of  the  family  to  do  all  in  their  power  for 
their  niece — 

''Charles-street,  April  5,  1783. 

"  My  dear  Sister, 

"  I  have  now  news  for  you,  that  will  again  make 
you  happy,  and  consequently  I  could  not  let  any 
time  pass  without  letting  you  know  it.  Yesterday 
your  brother  Ned  kissed  the  King's  hand  on  being 
appointed  Pa3anaster,  and  your  brother  Richard  is 
again  Secretary  of  the  Treasury. 

"  You  shall  hear  from  some  of  us  in  a  post  or  two, 
with  something  to  enable  you  to  go  on.  Now,  my 
dear  sister,  it  is  time  for  you  to  fix  upon  some  scheme 
for  my  niece's  education ;  the  sending  her  to  France 
for  a  couple  of  years  will  be  your  only  plan,  and  no 
time  ought  to  be  lost. 

"  God  bless  you,  we  all  love  you,  and  we  tell 
her  so. 

"  I  am,  my  dear  Sister,  ever  most  affectionately, 

"  Jane  Burke." 

"  My  dear  Sister, 
"  You  are  much  better  to  me  than  I  deserve,  by 
your  very  kind  and  affectionate  uneasiness  about  my 
health.  If  great  affection  for  you  and  my  niece  is  a 
merit,  which  I  consider  none,  that  I  have  for  you 
both,  most*  truly  and  cordially ;  you  are  my  only 
sister,  «id  a  good  one  ;  why  then  should  I  not  love 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BUItK£.  67 

you  ?  So  God  bless  you,  aud  make  you  happy  here 
in  your  child  and  frieuds  ;  and  bejpeafter^  93  we  all 
hope  and  wish  to  be. 

**  I  am  anxious  about  the  settlemeQt  of  n)y  niece 
in  France  for  a  couple  of  yeans ;   I  think  Mrs. 
French,*  who  is  a  well  bred  sensible  woman,  will 
he  the  best  qualified  of  any  person  J  know,  to  direct 
and  advise  you  upon  that  head ;  she  has  had  experi- 
ence herself,  having  had  her  children  abroad  for 
education ;  take  her  opinion  about  it,  and  through 
her  friendship   and   advice   direct  yourself.      The 
difficulty  will  be  to  get  her  to  France ;  if  you  could 
meet  with  a  sober,  discreet  clerg3mian  to  go  with 
you  and  her,  and  when  you  see  her  safe  lodged,  re- 
turn with  you  again,  that  would  be  the  best  way  to 
get  her  over.     For  as  to  your  staying  with  her,  it 
would  be  very  uncomfprtable  to  you,  not  speaking 
the  language  of  the  country ;  and  a  disadvantage  to 
my  niece,   to  h^ve  any  one  near  her  that  spoke 
Ei^Iish.    Let  her  be  placed  so  as  to  bring  her  for- 
ward as  fast  as  possible ;  for  she.  has  no  time  to  lose 
at  her  time  of  life ;  aad  I  am  sure  she  will  have 
s^nse  enough  to  make  use  of  her  time,  to  enable  her 
to  come  back  to  her  friends,  accomplished  as  they 
wish,  and  hope  to  see  her.     Perhaps  your  friends  in 
Cork  may  be  able  to  put  you  in  a  way  of  going  into 
France.     On  your  return,  you  can  take  us  in  your 
way.     My  dear  sister,  I  need  not  tell  you,  I  hope, 
how  happy  I  should  be  to  see  you,  and  the  pleasure 
it  would  give  your  brothers  and  nephew,  it  would 
indeed  make  us  all  very  happy.     They  all  join  me 

*  Of  Rakasane  (or  Ufma). 
F    S 


68  LIFE   OP   THiE 

in  love  and  blessing  to  you  and  my  niece,  whom  we 
love  as  a  child  of  our  own.    God  for  ever  bless  you. 

"  I  am,  my  dear  Sister, 
"  Ever  and  ever  yours,  most  affectionately, 

''  London,  May  20,  1788.  **  JaNE  BuKKE.*' 

On  Mr.  Burke's  visit  to  Dublin  in  1786,  he  could 
not  find  sufficient  leisure,  it  being,  as  already 
remarked,  a  rapid  and  impremeditated  journey,  to 
visit  his  sister ;  and  the  regret  of  both  father  and 
son  on  this  occasion  was  expressed  in  a  letter  firom 
e^ch. 

"  My  dear  Sister, 
*^  I  am  now  in  Dublin  with  my  son ;  and  it  is  to 
us  both,  I  assure  you,  a  matter  of  the  most  sincere 
concern,  that  we  should  be  on  the  same  side  of  the 
water  with  you  and  my  dear  niece,  without  having 
it  in  our  power  to  indulge  ourselves  in  the  satis- 
faction which  we  have  long  and  earnestly  wished  to 
embrace  you  and  her.  But  as  the  thought  of  coming 
hither  at  all  was  sudden,  so  it  was  very  late,  and  we 
shall  not  be  able  to  give  ourselves  a  week  more  (or, 
I  believe,  twelve  days  at  the  utmost)  for  oiu*  stay  in 
Dublin.  I  am  obliged  to  be  at  the  meeting  of  Par- 
liament, which  will  be  more  early  than  I  expected, 
and  Dick  must  be  in  Westminster  Hall  the  first  day 
of  term.  But  I  hope  and  trust,  that  as  we  have 
found  our  way  across  the  Irish  Channel,  we  shall  be 
able  to  visit  you  next  year  at  a  more  early,  and  to  us 
a  more  happy  season,  when  we  may  have  the  plea- 
sure, which  with  great  mortification  to  us  we  must 
abai^don  for  the  pi'esent.     It  will  give  your  sister 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  6^ 

and  your  brother  Richard  the  most  real  satisfaction^ 
as  well  as  to  my  son  and  me,  to  hear  that  you  are 
well.  We  left  your  brother  and  sister  so  at  Beacons- 
field«  Frank  Kieman  and  Mrs.  Kieman  desire  most 
cordially  to  salute  you  both.  We  do  so  from  our 
hearts.  My  dearest  Julia,  you  have  an  unprofitable 
brother,  but  one  who  loves  you  most  truly,  as  you 
deserve  to  be  loved,  who  have,  under  misfortunes^ 
aflSictions,  and  disappointments,  kept  up  your  spirits, 
your  courage,  and  your  inimitable  good  nature. 
God  will  one  time  or  other  reward  those  virtues ;  I 
have  no  doubt  of  it  My  best  compliments  to  Mr. 
Lemon,  and  thank  him  for  his  protection  to  yout  I 
write  this  on  a  supposition  that  you  are  at  Loughrea, 
where  if  you  be,  you  will  salute  all  there  who  have 
been  kind  to  you  in  my  name.  Ck>d  Almighty  bless 
and  defend  you,  and  believe  me  ever,  my  dearest 
Sister, 

**  Most  affectionately  yours, 

"  Edmund  Burke. 

'«  College  Gxeen,  October  12^  1786." 

*♦  My  dear  Aunt, 
'<  I  find  that,  by  an  accident,  the  letter  my  father 
wrote  to  you,  on  our  arrival  here,  did  not  go  off  for 
two  or  three  days  after,  which  is  certainly  the  reason 
we  have  not  heard  from  you.  We  both  certainly 
very  much  regret  that  we  are  so  near  you,  without 
being  able  to  see  you.  My  father  has  already  told 
you  how  unpremeditated  our  expedition  was,  and 
how  little  time  was  left  us  to  perform  it  in,  by  our 
several  occupations  in  England.  However,  I  am  in 
hope  that,  now  having  once  undertaken  this  journey, 


70  LIFE   OF   THE 

I  may  perhaps  attempt  it  again  at  a  more  favourable 
season.  I  really  long  to  see  my  cousin.  Captain 
Nagle*  tells  me  she  is  so  good  as  to  express  some 
iregard  for  me,  though  I  am  afraid  I  have  not  very 
mu6h  deserved  it.  The  times,  however,  have  not 
been  very  favourable,  but  I  hope  they  will  mend. 
In  the  mean  time  let  us  sometimes  hear  from  you. 
We  are  just  going  to  ehibark  again  for  England  in 
this  night's  packet.  I  find,  in  making  up  my  little 
accounts  here,  that  I  have  rather  more  left  than  I 
imagined,  viz.  50/.  which  I  enclose  to  you  for  my 
cousin,  and  beg  you  to  make  use  of  it  for  her  as  you 
think  fit.  1  am  happy  to  be  dble  to  give  hel*  this 
little  testimony  of  my  affection :  it  is  not  necessary 
to  mention  it  in  your  letters  to  my  father  or  uncle. 

"  Believe  me,  dear  Aunt, 

•  "  Your  affectionate  nephew, 

"  Richard  Bukke." 

Previously  to  the  meeting  of  Parliament  in  1790, 
the  proceedings  of  the  National  Assembly  of  France 
seeming  to  rise  in  the  estimation  of  many  persons  in 
this  country,  drew  from  Mr.  Burke,  in  private,  severe 
Condemnation  of  the  popular  feeling ;  terming  it  "  a 
gross  infatuation,"  **  a  tolerance  of  crime,*'  "  an 
absurd  partiality  to  abstract  follies  and  practical 
wickedness.*'  Every  arrival  from  France  seemed 
more  than  to  realize  his  worst  anticipations  of  the 
evils  already  perpetrated  and  impending.  When  in- 
formed  of  the  opinions  of  Mr.  Fox,  with  whom 
there  had  been  a  material  cessation  of  confidential 

*  The  present  Sir  Edmund  Nagle. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  71 

intercourse  for  above  three  years  past,  being  opposed 
to  his  own,  he  expressed  some  surprise,  and  on  one 
occasion  said,  '*  Fox  has  too  much  good  nature  not 
to  like  any  thing  that  promises  benefit  to  his  fellow- 
men,  but  in  this  matter,  the  severities  of  his  judg- 
ment must  soon  correct  the  venial  errors  of  his  dis- 
position." Further  information  made  him  less  san- 
guine in  this  hope  respecting  his  friend,  and  the  fear 
of  open  and  direct  disagreement  induced  him  to 
resolve  not  voluntarily  to  obtrude  his  sentiments  on 
the  question  to  Parliament, — ^not  at  least  until  com- 
pelled so  to  do  by  a  sense  of  duty  paramount  to  all. 
private  considerations.  Such  an  occasion  very  soon 
called  him  forth. 

In  two  debates  on  the  army  estimates  (5th  and 
9th  of  February,  1790,)  Mr.  Fox  not  only  eulogized 
the  Revolution  in  France  generally,  but  was  impru- 
dent enough  to  specify  some  points  of  particular 
admiration — among  others  the  total  defection  of  the 
French  military  from  their  officers  and  government, 
which  was,  in  fact,  nothing  else  but  connivance  at 
the  worst  excesses  of  the  populace.  Colonel  Phipps, 
as  a  military  man,  and  other  members,  reprobated 
these  sentiments  loudly  as  subversive  of  all  discipline 
and  subordination.  Mr.  Burke,  on  the  second  occa- 
sion (9th  February),  expressing  the  highest  admira- 
tion  for  the  talents  of  his  Hon.  Friend,  and  the 
oonsequ^it  danger  to  our  own  country  of  giving  the 
sanction  of  his  name  to  such  doctrines,  entered  into 
an  examination  of  the  state  of  France,  the  prin- 
ciples, proceedings,  and  tendencies,  of  the  Revolution ; 
condemning  in  bitter,  terms  the  incurable  ignorance 
of  the  leaders,  their  folly,  injustice*  and 


72  LIFE   OF   THE 

their  pedantic  theories,  their  abuse  of  elementarf 
principles ;  and  contrasted  it  very  powerfully  with 
the  English  Revolution;  in  which,  though  some 
were  fond  of  comparing  them,  he  could  find  not  a 
single  point  of  resemblance.  In  England,  nothing 
had  been  changed  but  what  absolute  necessity  re- 
quired. In  France,  on  the  contrary,*  nothing  what- 
ever, not  even  the  most  necessary  or  praiseworthy 
imstitutions,  were  preserved.  He  hated  the  old  des- 
potism of  France,  and  still  more  he  hated  the  new : 
it  was  a  plundering,  ferocious,  bloody,  tjrrannical 
democracy,  without  a  single  virtue  to  redeem  its 
niunerous  crimes ;  and  so  far  from  being,  as  his  hon. 
friend  had  inadvertently  said,  worthy  of  imitation, 
he  would  spend  his  last  breath,  and  the  last  drop  of 
his  blood — ^he  would  quit  his  best  friends,  and  join 
his  worst  enemies,  to  oppose  the  least  tittle  of  such 
a  spirit,  or  such  an  example,  in  England. 

This  speech,  which  contained  no  compliment  to 
administration,  but  on  the  contrary  displayed  towards 
it  rather  an  adverse  spirit,  was  nevertheless  received 
by  the  members  of  that  body  and  by  a  great  majo- 
rity of  the  House  with  loud  applause.  Mr.  I^itt  was 
among  the  most  conspicuous ;  he  himself  had  been 
incautiously  led  to  express  some  opinion  in  favour  of 
the  struggle  then  going  on ;  but,  alarmed  at  its  fur- 
ther progress  and  aspect,  he  now  appeared  to  wheel 
round  to  concur  in  the  sentiments  of  Mr.  Burke.  No 
matter,  he  said,  how  they  had  differed  on  former 
points  of  policy,  he  felt  for  him  on  that  occasion  the 
highest  gratitude  and  reverence,  and  not  only  the  pre- 
sent generation  but  the  latest  posterity  would  revere 
his  name,  for  the  decided  part  he  had  that  day  taken. 


AIOHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  7S 

The  reply  of  Mr.  Fox  \f as  mild  and  conciliatorjr. 
He  had  ever,  and  did  then,  entefrtain  the  highest 
veneration  for  the  judgment  of  his  hoh.  friend ;  by 
him  he  had  been  instructed  more  than  by  all  other 
men  and  books  put  together ;  by  him  he  had  been 
taught  to  love  our  constitution ;  from  him  he  had 
acquired  nearly  aU  his  political  knowledge ;  all  cer- 
tainly which  was  most  essential,  and  which  he  most 
valued ;  "  his  speech  on  that  day,  some  argumenta 
and  observations  excepted,  was  one  of  the  wisest 
and  most  brilliant .  flights  of  oratory  ever  delivered 
in  diat  House,''  but^  with  all  these  admissions,  his 
opinions  on  the  subject  in  question  continued  un- 
shaken. 

A  rejoinder  from  Mr.  Burke  expressed  an  equally 
complimentary  and  conciliatory  spirit ;  and  the  sub- 
ject, tender  as  it  evidently  was,  would  hav^  dropped; 
at  least  for  the  present,  without  further  consequences^ 
had  not  the  zeal  of  Mr.  Sheridan,  in  support  of  th6 
new  opinions,*  urged  him  on  to  charge  his  old 
political  associate  as  a  deserter  from  his  former  prin* 
ciples — as  an  assailant  of  the  basis  of  freedom  itself 
.—as  the  advocate  and  apologist  of  despotism— and 
the  libeller  of  men  struggling  in  the  most  glorious 
of  all  causes.  The  reply  to  these  unmeasured  cen^ 
sures,  which  were  however  mingled  with  some  strag- 
gling compliments,  was  calm,  but  decided.  Sudh 
terms,  Mr.  Burke  said,  might  have  been  spared,  if 

*  Like  most, other  men^  he  in  time,  as  Burke  told  him  he 
would,  changed  his  opinion  of  France  and  French  principles.  A 
memorandum  of  his  sa3rs— ''  I  like  it  no  better  for  coming  from 
France— whence  all  ills  come.  Altar  of  liberty— begrimed  at 
onoe  with  Uood  and  mire." 


74  LIFE  OF  THE 

for  nothing  more  than  as  a  sacrifice  to  the  ghost  of 
departed  friendship ;  they  were  but  a  repetition  of 
what  was  said  by  the  reforming  clubs  and  societies 
with  which  the  hon.  gentleman  had  lately  become 
entangled,  and  for  whose  applause  he  had  chosen  to 
sacrifice  his  friend ;  though  he  might  in  time  find 
that  the  value  of  such  praise  Was  not  worth  the 
price  at  which  it  was  purchased.  Henceforward,  he 
added,  they  were  separated  in  politics,  for  ever. 

This  schism  threatened  such  serious  consequences 
to  the  interests  of  the  party,  that  attempts  were 
instantly  made,  and  repeated  two  days  afterwards,  to 
heal  it  by  mutual  explanation,  in  presence  of  the 
Duke  of  Portland,  Mr.  Fox,  and  others  of  the  chief 
Members  at  Burlington  House ;  they  met  at  ten 
o'dodc  at  night,  and  debated  the  matter  until  three 
next  morning,  separating  then,  as  they  met,  with 
irrecondleable  clifferenoes  of  opinion.  The  display  of 
talents  on  both  sides  is  said  to  have  been  remarkable. 
Mr.  Burke  preserved  his  temper  unruffled,  expressing 
the  most  amicable  sentiments  towards  the  individual, 
but  unfeigned  abhOTrence  of  the  cause  he  had  advo- 
cated; and  the  im^^ssion  as  to  services^  pow^rs^ 
and  opinicms,  proved  so  much  in  hiis  favour  upon  the 
minds  of  those  present,  that  Mr.  Sheridan  took 
offence,  and  for  the  remainder  of  this  session  and 
the  beginning  of  tiie  next,  ceased  from  his  usualf 
active  support  in  Parliament 

Some  personal  dislike  prevailed  between  these  dis- 
tinguished men  ever  afterwards,nor  were  they  perhaps 
very  cordial  for  a  short  time  before.  Mr.  Burke, 
who  always  complimented  his  talents,  did  not  for 
many  reasons  place  equal  confidence  in  his  general 


HIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  7* 

condilM  or  principles ;  one  reason  for  whieh  was  his 
alleged  breach  of  political  faith  in  intriguing  for  one 
of  the  highest  Cabinet  situations  in  the  new  arrange- 
ments consequent  on  the  settling  of  the  Regency, 
to  the  exclusion  of  older  and  higher  claimants.  He 
suspected  also^  that  he  was  the  cause  of  Mr.  Fox 
withdrawing  from  him  his  political  confidence ;  and 
there  were,  it  is  said,  some  other  private  sources  of 
disagreement. 

The  wit,  on  the  other  hand,  as  he  rose  high  in  the 
private  favour  of  an  illustrious  personage,  and  in 
the  esteem  of  his  party,  felt  some  impatience  of  the 
preponderance  of  Mr.  Burke,  for  he  possessed  little 
of  the  humility  of  the  latter  in  the  estimate  of  his 
own  importance.  With  much  less  of  steady  talent 
or  qualifications  for  office,  he  had  more  than  his 
ambition ;  and  forgetful  of  the  disciplined  subordi- 
nation of  the  old  Whig  school,  aimed  at  vaulting  at 
once  to  the  head  of  that,  connexion,  over  superior 
talents  and  longer  services,  though  without  private 
weight  in  himself,  without  any  strong  hold  on  public 
confidence,  and,  as  was  generally  believed,  without 
the  diligence  or  punctuality  necessary  to  conduct 
public  business.  After  their  disa^eement,  it  was 
remarked,  that  he  always  sat  silent  in  private  com* 
pany,  when  Mr.  Burke  was  a  theme  of  praise  with 
every  one  else ;  in  Parliament  he  spoke  of  him  more 
than  once,  '*  as  one  for  whose  talents  and  personal 
virtue  he  entertained  the  highest  esteem,  veneration, 
and  regard ;  '*  a  compliment  which  did  not  prevent 
him  from  making  frequent  pointed  and  personal 
attacks  on  the  object  of  it,  but  which  Mr.  Burke 
rarely  deigned  to  regard.     To  his  councils,  also,  it 


76  LIFE  OF   THE 

has  always  been  said,  that  the  subsequent  quarrel  of 
the  former  with  Mr.  Fox  was  owing. 

The  more  zealous  friends  of  Mr.  Sheridan,  little 
calculating  on  the  violence  of  the  political  storm 
Aen  in  progress  in  France,  and  not  thinking  per- 
haps that  any  public  question  whatever  should  be 
permitted  to  interfere  with  private  connection,  began 
to  tax  their  ingenuity  for  the  cause  of  the  unexpected 
disclaimer  of  him  by  Burke,  and  discovered  at  length 
that  it  must  he  Jealousy  of  his  talents  and  influence. 
Among  others,  Dr.  Parr,  though  an  ardent  admirer 
of  Burke,  was  too  staunch  a  Whig  and  Foxite  to  see 
his  former  pupil,  Sheridan,  thus  unceremoniously 
thrown  off  without  administering  to  the  self-love  of 
his  friends  by  assigning  some  such  cause.  He  wrote 
thus  immediately  after  the  quarrel. — 

*<  It  is  not  merely  French  politics  that  product 
this  dispute; — ^they  might  have  been  settled  pri** 
vately.  No,  no — ^there  is  jealousy  lurking  under- 
neath— jealousy  of  Mr.  Sheridan's  eloquence ; — -jea* 
lousy  of  his  popularity ; — jealousy  of  his  influence 
with  Mr.  Fox ; — jealousy  perhaps  of  his  connection 
with  the  Prince." 

A  suggestion  of  this  nature  usually  comes  from  an 
a^rieved  party,  who  either  does  not  admit,  or  does 
not  find  it  convenient  to  acknowledge,  any  other ;  it 
is  easily  made,  and  precludes  a  specific  reply.  In 
the  present  instance  the  accusation  was  scarcely 
plausible.  It  is  true,  as  has  been  already  said,  that 
Mr.  Burke  believed  he  had  sufficient  reasons  for 
disliking  the  conduct  of  Sheridan,  particularly  since 
the  agitation  of  the  Regency  question.  But  it  ought 
likewise  to  be  stated,  that  Mr.  Fox  participated  fully 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  77 

in  the  same  feelings ;  and  though  they  were  not  bo 
openly  exhibited  by  him  in  the  first  instance,  and 
afterwards  by  the  exigendes  of  politics  were  some- 
times shrouded  altogether,  they  did  not  the  less 
cease  to  influence  the  mind  of  that  statesman,  as  iB 
well  known  to  his  friends,  even  to  the  end  of  his  life. 
Mr.  Burke  therefore,  if  actuated  by  displeasure 
towards  the  wit,  did  not  stand  alone  in  that  feeling. 
lUe  ostensible  leader  of  the  party  joined  him  in  it. 
As  to  jealousy,  in  the  sense  here  insinuated,  it  was 
80  wholly  improbable,  that  either  as  orators  or  states- 
men, in  private  character  or  in  public  estimation,  no 
one  who  thoroughly  understood  the  distinguishing 
merits  of  both,  would  venture  to  place  them,  on  such 
matters,  in  comparison. 

.  It  is  ungracious  and  irksome  to  dwell  upon  the 
failings  of  the  great,  more  particularly  when  they 
are  themselves  gone  to  answer  the  account  at  the 
last  and  greatest  tribunal — ^nor  should  a  breath  of 
this  kind  go  forth  against  Sheridan  here,  except  for 
this  charge,  which,  when  alive,  he  was  willing  to 
countenance ;  and  now,  when  harmless  vanity  can  no 
longer  be  gratified  by  the  tale,  is  imprudently,  if  not 
absurdly,  repeated.*  If  any  further  ground  be  re- 
quired for  the  disimion  with  Burke,  let  it  be  sought 
where  perhaps  it  will  be  most  certainly  found,  in 
the  totally  dissimilar  characters  of  the  men.  Their 
minds  were  cast  in  a  wholly  different  mould.  Their 
habits  of  life  as  diametrically  opposite.  Nothing 
but  the  emergencies  of  politics  Could  have  kept  such 
persons  for  twelve  months  together,  united  by  any 
tye  resembling  esteem  or  sincere  friendship,  when  it 

*  In  hiB  Life,  recently  puUuhed. 


78  LIFE   OF   THE 

is  considered  that  one  was  religious,*  moral,  tempe- 
rate, principled,  benevolent,  laborious  in  public 
business,  active  and  diligent  in  his  private  duties ; 
the  other  so  remarkably  deficient  in  these  and  other 
virtues  calculated  to  fix  solid  esteem,*  that  his  bio^ 
grapher  has  scarcely  been  able  to  produce  a  sin^e 
instance  of  either.  If  it  be  further  added,  that  one 
was  conscientious  and  punctual  in  the  discharge  of 
his  obligations  to  society,  the  other  reckless  to  an 
uncommon  degree  of  the  misery  and  disrepute  accru- 
ing to  himself  and  others  from  their  constant  violar 
tion; — ^that  one  in  the  performance  of  his  public 
functions  was  unafiected,  and,  in  the  estimate  of  his 
own  importance,  commonly  unassuming ;  the  other 
vain  and  fond  of  display,  sometimes  resorting  to  trick 
and  finesse  to  increase  vulgar  admiration  of  his  powers; 
that  one  drew  upon  Eis  purse  and  his  influence  on 
all  occasions,  to  forward  the  views  of  unfriended 
merit,  while  the  other,  from  his  incorrigible  negli- 
gence, is  believed  to  have  di^usted  or  consigned  to 
obscurity  many  promising  claimants  to  dramatic 
literature : — ^if  these  and  many  minor  peculiarities  be 
contrasted,  there  may  be  found  perhaps  very  ample 
grounds  for  jealousy,  but  proceeding  from  quite  the 
opposite  quarter  to  that  which  the  preceding  passage 
would  insinuate. 

*  Mr.  Burke  frequently  expteeaed  Yob  disgust  at  Sheridan's 
jests  in  private  society  against  religion.  A  favourite  subject  for 
ridicule  with  the  wit^  was  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity ;  whicb^ 
having  become  the  subject  of  his  ribaldry  more  than  once  at  the 
table  of  Lord  Crewe^  gave  much  offence  to  his  lordship  and  his 
amiable  lady^  who  from  this  and  other  causes  found  it  advisable  to 
decline  giving  him  fiixther  invitations  to  dinner,  long  before  they 
deemed  it  expedient  to  interdict  him  their  house  altogether. 


EIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BUKftE.  79 

Anotiher  part  of  the  same  letter  gives  a  lively 
picture  of  the  agitation  occasioned  by  this  dispute 
among  the  friends  of  Opposition — 

<'  The  ferment  and  alarm  are  universal,  and  some^ 
thing  must  be  done ; — for  it  is  a  conflagration  in 
which  they  must  perish,  unless  it  be  stopped.  All 
the  papers  are  with  Burice, — even  the  Foxite  papers 
which  I  have  seen.  I  know  his  violence,  and  tern* 
per,  and  obstinacy  of  opinion,  and— but  I  will  not 
speak  oiit,  for  I  think  htm  the  greatest  man  upen 
the  earth.  ♦  *  *  He  is  uncorrupt,  I  hnow^  but 
his  passions  are  quite  headstrong/' 

In  the  midst  of  the  first  heated  discussions  occa^ 
sioned  by  this  rupture  at  home,  Mr.  Burke  was  taken 
to  task  for  his  doctrines  on  the  same  subject,  from 
a  more  distant  quarter,  by  a  gentleman  with  whom, 
though  their  acquaintance  was  not  of  long  standing, 
he  had  formed  some  degree  of  intimacy. 

Mr.  or  Captain,  Mercer,  who  in  venturing  to  argue 
the  question  only  flourished  the  sword  of  Harlequin 
against  the  armour  of  Achilles,  was  a  man  who,  hav- 
ing successfully  accomplished  the  common  business  of 
life,  that  of  making  money,  believed  himself  also  qua« 
lified  to  make,  or  at  least  to  judge  of  and  to  explain, 
the  laws  which  influence  and  bind  together  a  great 
nation.  The  son  of  a  small  trader  in  the  north  of 
Ireland  who  had  little  to  give  him  but  a  common 
education,  he  found  himself  early  in  life  thrown  upon 
his  own  resources  ;  and,  having  figured  as  an  under 
derk  in  a  counting-house  in  Dublin  and  Liverpool, 
a  young  sailor  in  a  merchant-ship,  and  a  captain  of 
a  West  Indiaman,  he  at  length  turned  his  attention 
to  the  East  Indies.  Here,  as  captain  and  general 
merchant,  he  accumulated  in  20  years,  without  any 


80  LIFE   OF   THE 

imputation  on  his  int^^ty,  a  fortune  of  more  than 
60,000/.»  with  which,  and  the  esteem  of  those  who 
knew  him,  among  whom  was  Lord  Macartney,  at 
that  time  Governor  of  Madras,  he  returned  in  17879 
to  spend  the  remainder  of  his  days  in  ease  and  honour 
in  his  native  place  of  Newry. 

He  united  to  a  vigorous  understanding  a  mind 
disposed  to  the  performance  of  good,  and  an  ardour 
of  character  i^hich  carried  him  forward  to  act  with 
energy,  and  sturdily  to  maintain  such  sentiments  as 
he  had  formed.  He  possessed  a  taste  for  information ; 
but,  like  all  self-educated  men,  he  had  read  much 
rather  than  well ;  and  having  jumbled  together  the 
good  and  the  bad  without  much  discrimination,  had 
not  found  time  in  his  active  intercourse  with  the 
world  to  set  his  mind  to  work  to  analyze  the  mass 
.  thus  collected,  and  to  detach  the  gold  from  the  dross. 
He  was,  as  such  persons  usually  are,  opiniated ;  for 
knowledge,  with  them,  beginning  only  to  flow  in  at 
a  later  period  of  life  than  usual,  the  understanding 
becoines  too  rigid  and  too  tenacious  of  its  conse- 
quence, easily  to  part  with  acquisitions  so  recently 
made.  His  views,  on  subjects  with  which  he  had 
an  opportunity  of  becoming  personally  acquainted, 
were  frequently  original  and  just ;  while  on  those 
picked  up  from  chance  rather  than  systematic  in- 
struction— ^from  prejudice  rather  than  close  inquiry 
— they  were  as  often  common-place  and  erroneous. 
The  society  with  which  he  had  chiefly  mingled,  had 
not  materially  tended  to  correct  the  original  defects 
under  which  he  laboured.  But  of  his  spirit  and 
general  cast  of  mind,  a  favourable  opinion  will  be 
formed  from   the  following  passage  engraved  on  a 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   B13RKE.  81. 

plate  of  gold,  hung  up  originally  in  the  cabin  of  the 
shiphe  conunanded  in  India,  and  afterwards  transferred 
to  the  mantleshelf  of  his  parlour  in  Arno's  Vale. 

**  Hail !  Independence ;  hail !  Heav'n's  next  best  gift 
To  that  of  life,  and  an  immortal  soul^ 
The  life  of  life !  that  to  the  banquet  high. 
And  sober  meal,  gires  taste." — 

It  would  not  have  been  necessary  to  advert  so 
particularly  to  this  gentleman,  except  as  he  formed  a 
fair  specimen  of  that  numerous  class  of  persons  who 
first  expressed  their  astonishment  at  the  opinions  of 
Mr.  Burke,  and  then  simultaneously  rushed  to  attack 
them,  though  totally  disqualified  by  education,  habits 
of  life,  or  talents,  to  discuss,  much  less  to  solve,  the 
abstruse  political  problems  they  involved.  The  fol- 
lowing is  his  first  letter  on  the  subject  to  his  illus- 
trious acquaintance ;  and  the  reader  will  be  amused, 
if  he  can  repress  his  astonishment,  at  the  coolness 
with  which  the  writer  talks  of  subverting  a  govern- 
ment,— as  if  it  were  an  affair  of  little  more  con- 
sequence than  pulling  down  a  cow-shed,  and  re- 
building it  in  the  newest  fashion  at  the  pleasure  of 
the  owner — a  feeling  indeed  vulgar  and  pernicious, 
but  among  a  certain  class  of  society,  too  general. — It 
will  be  observed  there  is  little  attempt  at  reasoning ; 
the  commimication,  however,  deserves  insertion  for 
the  reply  it  drew  forth. 

"  Dear  Sir, 
**  My  veneration  for  your    character  was  great 
before  I  had  the  honour  of  your  personal  acquaint- 
ance, and  it  was  not   diminished  when  I  had  the 

VOL.  II.  G 


82  Life  of  the 

pleasure  of  seeing  and  conversing  with  you.  I  had 
long  considered  you  the  determined  enemy  of  tyranny 
and  oppression  of  every  kind — ^the  friend  of  man — 
and  of  every  thing  which  might  promote  his  felicity. 

"  It  was  therefore  with  extreme  surprise  that  I 
read  in  my  English  newspaper  of  last  post,  the  im- 
putation '  to  you  of  sentiments  exceedingly  inimical 
to  what  is  thought  by  many  a  most  glorious  revolu- 
tion in  France. 

**  The  newspaper  represents  you  as  complaining, 
that  the  National  Assembly  had  totally  subverted 
their  ancient  form  of  government,  and  that  they  had 
also  subverted  their  church. 

**  To  complain  of  the  subversion  of  a  government 
implies  a  belief  of  its  having  been  a  good  one.  But 
I  caniiot  persuade  myself  to  think  that  such  was 
your  opinion  of  the  defunct  government  of  France. 
Every  body  has  read,  more  or  less,  of  the  late  French 
government ;  but  every  one  has  not  been  in  France 
as  I  have  been,  to  see  how  it  operated  to  the  distress 
and  vexation  of  the  people.  I  saw  so  much  of  this, 
that  the  word  gavernmeni  never  had  a  place  in  my 
mind  when  I  considered  the  condition  of  the  French 
people.  In  a  word  I  saw  nothing  but  the  most 
despotic  tyranny,  the  subversion  of  which  would,  as 
I  thought,  give  the  greatest  pleasure  to  every  sincere 
lover  of  civil  liberty,  of  whatever  nation  he  might 
be. 

"  With  respect  to  the  subversion  of  the  church,  it 
does  not  appear  that  any  change  in  its  doctrine  has 
been  attempted.  In  its  discipline  there  may  be  some 
alterations,  as  it  is  probable  the  National  Assembly 
will  enlarge  those  exemptions  from  the  jurisdiction 


EIGHT  HON.  EDMUND   BURKE.  89 

of  the  Coiirt  of  Rome  which  it  formerly  enjoyed,  and 
which  were  called  the  privileges  of  the  Galilean 
Church.  For  the  rest— if  to  take  from  pampered 
and  luxurious  prelates  a  part  of  those  sumptuous 
livings  which  were  accumulated  in  the  times  of 
ignorance  and  superstition,  and  to  provide  for  the 
more  comfortable  subsistence  of  parish  priests,  be 
the  subversion  of  a  church,  millions  of  good  men 
and  good  Christians  will  heartily  wish  (for  the 
honour  of  true  religion  distinct  from  pageantry  and 
hypocrisy)  that  all  such  may  in  this  manner  be 
speedily  subverted. 

'*  Suffer  a  plain  independent  man  to  make  some 
fiuiher  observations. 

"  Power  over  our  felloW-men,  by  whatever  means 
it  has  been  acquired — ^whether  by  fraud,  or  force, 
or  thoughtless  aequiesc^ace — seems  to  be  considered 
by  its  possessor  as  his  dearest  birth-right.  He 
would  lose  his  right  hand  or  even  his  life,  rather 
thpn  part  with  a  jot  or  tittle  of  it.  He  extends  it 
from  object  to  olgect  until  the  yoke  becomes  too 
heavy  and  too  galling  to  be  longer  borne.  And  by 
what  means  are  the  aggrieved  to  get  rid  of  it  ?  Not 
by  the  most  reasonable  and  eloquent  representations 
— not  by  the  most  humble  and  abject  intercessions ; 
for  both  would  be  equally  scouted  and  laughed  to 
scorn — ^not  by  an  appeal  to  the  lawa  of  the  country, 
for  the  laws  were  made  under  the  influence  of  the 
ponf er  complained  of,  and  with  a  view  to  its  perpe- 
tuation. There  is,  therefore,  no  remedy  to  be  foimd 
but  in  what  is  called  a  revolution ;  the  intention  of 
which  being  either  to  curtail,  or  annul,  or  place  in 
other  hands,  the  powers  which  be,  it  cannot    be 

G  2 


84  LIFE  OF  THE 

effected  without  some  convulsion  ;  nor  is  it  possible 
ISO  to  order  the  matter,  but  in  some  cases  many  in- 
dividuals may  suffer  injury  and  outrage ;  and  this, 
as  far  as  it  goes,  is  to  be  lamented.  But  if  it  ends 
in  freedom,  in  the  deliverance  of  a  nation  from  the 
despotism  of  one  man,  no  price  can  be  thought  too 
dear  to  pay  for  it. 

<<  I  flatter  myself,  my  dear  Sir,  that  you  do  not 
differ  essentially  from  the  sentiments  expressed  in 
this  letter.  I  am  persuaded  you  feel,  and  will  always 
acknowledge,  that  there  cannot  be  a  government  fit 
for  rational  beings  to  live  under  and  submit  to,  but 
where  the  l^slative  part  of  it  is  chiefly  composed  of 
the  representatives  of  the  bulk  of  the  people,  freely 
and  unbiassedly  elected.  The  new  French  govern- 
ment promises  to  be  such  a  one ;  and  notwithstand- 
ing what  newspapers  report  to  the  contrary,  I  will 
not  take  to  myself  the  mortification  of  supposing  that 
my  judgment  of  points  of  high  and  essential  im- 
portance to  the  happiness  of  mankind,  differs  ex- 
ceedingly from  the  opinions  of  a  man  celebrated  for 
the  clearness  of  his  head,  and  the  philanthropy  of 
his  heart. 

^^  Perhaps  you  will  cheer  me  with  an  assurance 
that  we  do  not  differ  widely ;  than  which '  nothing 
would  be  a  more  exhilirating  cordial  to  one,  who 
has  the  honour  to  be,  with  every  possible  respect, 
your  most  faithful  and  humble  servant, 

''  Thomas  Mercer. 


Amo'fl  Vale,  near  Newry,  Ireland, 
19th  February,  1790." 


The  following  was  the  reply : 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  85 


To  Thomas  Mercer,  Esq. 
''  Dear  Sir, 

"  The  speedy  answer  I  return  to  your  letter,  I 
hope  will  convince  you  of  the  high  value  I  set  upon 
the  regard  you  are  so  good  to  express  for  me,  and 
the  obliging  trquble  which  you  take  to  inform  my 
judgment  upon  matters  in  which  we  are  all  very 
deeply  concerned.  I  think  perfectly  w^U  of  your, 
heart  and  your  principles,  and  of  the  strength  of 
your  natural  understanding,  which,  according  to 
your  opportunities,  you  have  not  been  wanting  in 
pains  to  improve. 

*^  If  you  are  mistaken,  it  is  perhaps  owing  to  the 
impression  almost  inevitably  made  by  the  various 
careless  conversations  which  we  are  engaged  in 
through  life;  conversations  in  which  those  who 
propagate  their  doctrines  have  not  been  called  upon 
for  much  reflection  concerning  their  end  and  ten- 
dency ;  and  in  which  those  who  imperceptibly  im- 
bibe the  doctrines  taught,  are  not  required,  by  a 
particular  duty,  very  closely  to  examine  them,  or  to 
act  from  the  impressions  they  receive.  I  am  obliged 
to  act,  and  am  therefore  bound  to  call  my  principles 
aiid  sentiments  to  a  strict  account.  As  far  as  .  my 
share  of  a  public  trust  goes,  I  am  in  irtust  religiously 
to  maintain  the  rights  and  properties  of  all  descrip* 
tions  of  people  in  the  possession  which  legally  they 
hold ;  and  in  the  rule  by  which  alone  they  can  be 
legally  secure  in  any  possession.  I  do  not  find 
myself  at  Uberty  either  as  a  man,  or  as  a  trustee  for 
men,  to  take  a  vested  property  from  one  man  and  to 
give  it  to  another,  because  /  think  that  the  portion 


86  LIFE   OF  THE 

of  one  is  too  great,  and  that  of  another  too  small. 
From  my  first  juvenile  rudiments  of  speculative 
study  to  the  grey  hairs  of  my  present  experience,  I 
have  hever  learned  any  thing  else.  I  can  never  be 
taught  any  thing  else  by  reason ;  and  when  farce 
comes,  I  shall  consider  whether  I  am  to  submit  to 
it,  or  how  I  am  to  resist  it.  This  I  am  sure  of, 
that  an  early  guard  against  the  manifest  tendency  of 
9  contrary  doctrine,  is  the  only  way  by  which  those 
who  love  order  can  be  prepared  to  resist  such  force. 

'*  The  calling  men  by  the  names  of  ^  pampered 
and  luxurious  prelates,'  &c.  is  in  you  no  more  than 
a  mark  of  your  dislike  to  intemperance  and  idle 
expence ;  but  in  others  it  is  used  for  other  puposes. 
It  is  often  used  to  extinguish  the  sense  of  justice  in 
our  minds,  and  the  natural  feelings  of  humanity  in 
our  bosoms.  Such  language  does  not  mitigate  the 
cruel  effects  of  reducing  men  of  opulent  condition, 
and  their  innumerable  dependents,  to  the  last  dis- 
tress. If  I  were  to  adopt  the  plan  of  a  spoliatory 
reformation,  I  should  probably  employ  such  lan- 
guage ;  but  it  would  aggravate  instead  of  extenu- 
ating my  guilt  in  overturning  the  sacred  principles 
of  property. 

<*  Sir,  I  say  that  church  and  state,  and  human 
society  too,  for  which  church  and  state  were  made, 
are  subverted  by  such  doctrines,  joined  to  such  prac- 
tices, as  leave  no  foundation  for  property  in  long 
possessions.  My  dear  Captain  Mercer,  it  is  not  my 
calling  the  use  you  make  of  your  plate  in  your  house, 
either  of  dwelling  or  of  prayer,  'pageantry  and 
hypocrisy,*  that  can  justify  me  in  taking  from  you 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  87 

your  own  property,  and  your  own  liberty  to  use  your 
own  property  according  to  your  own  ideas  of  orna- 
ment. When  you  find  me  attempting  to  break  into 
your  house  to  take  your  plate,  under  any  pretence 
whatsoever,  but  most  of  all  under  pretence  of  purity 
of  religion  and  Christian  charity,  shoot  me  for  a 
robber  and  an  hypocrite,  as  in  that  case  I  shall 
certainly  be.  The  *  true  Christian  Religion '  never 
taught  me  any  such  practices  ;  nor  did  the  religion 
of  my  nature,  nor  ajtiy  religion,  nor  any  law. 

<<  Let  those  who  never  abstained  from  a  full  meal, 
and  as  much  wine  as  they  could  swallow,  for  a  single 
day  of  their  whole  lives,  satirize  'luxurious  and 
pampered  prelates '  if  they  will.  Let  them  abuse 
such  prelates,  and  such  lords,  and  such  squires,  pro- 
vided it  .be  only  to  correct  their  vices.  I  care  not 
much  about  the  language  of  this  moral  satire,  if 
they  go  no  further  than  satire.  But  there  are 
occasions  when  the  language  of  Falstaff  reproaching 
the  Londoners,  whom  he  robbed  in  their  way  to 
Canterbury,  with  their  gorbellies  and  their  city 
luxiuy,  is  not  so  becoming. 

*'  It  is  not  by  calling  the  landed  estates,  possessed 
by  old  prescriptive  rights^  the  *  accumulations  of 
Ignorance  and  superstition,'  that  can  support  me  in 
shaking  that  grand  title,  which  supersedes  all  other 
title,  and  which  all  my  studies  of  general  jurispru- 
dence have  taught  me  to  consider  as  one  principal 
cause  of  the  formation  of  states  ;  I  mean  the  ascer- 
taining and  securing  prescription.  But  these  are 
donations  made  in  *  ages  of  ignorance  and  supersti- 
tion.*     Be  it  so.     It  proves  that  these  donations 


88  LIFE   OF   THE 

were  made  long  ago ;  and  this  is  prescription ;  and 
this  gives  right  and  title.* 

**  It  is  possible  that  many  estates  about  you  were 
originally  obtained  by  arms,  that  is»  by  violence,  a 
thing  almost  as  bad  as  superstition,  and  not  much 
short  of  ignorance :  but  it  is  old  violence ;  and  that 
which  might  be  wrong  in  the  beginning,  is  cons^ 
crated  by  time,  and  becomes  lawful.  This  may  be 
superstition  in  me,  and  ignorance ;  but  I  had  rather 
remain  in  ignorance  and  superstition,  than  be  en-^ 
lightened  and  purified  out  of  the  first  principles  of 
law  and  natural  justice. 

^*  I  never  will  suffer  you,  if  I  can  help  it,  to  be 
deprived  of  the  well-earned  fruits  of  your  industry, 
because  others  may  want  your  fortime  more  than 
you  do,  and  may  have  laboured,  and  do  now  labour, 
in  vain,  to  acquire  even  a  subsistence.  Nor,  on  the 
contrary,  if  success  had  less  smiled  on  your  endea- 
vours, and  you  had  come  home  insolvent,  would  I 
take  from  any  ^  pampered  and  luxurious  lord  *  in 

*  The  writer  of  Junius's  Letters,  in  one  of  his  private  commu- 
nications to  Wilkes  (18th  September,  1771)>  has  a  passage  so 
similar  in  spirit  to  this  as  to  deserve  notice ;  it  is  in  defence  of 
dose  boroughs. — ^*  You  ask  me  from  whence  did  the  right  (of 
parUamentaiy  representation  in  small  places)  Qriginate, .  and  for 
what  purpose  was  it  granted  ?  I  do  not  see  the  tendency  of  these 
questions,  but  1  answer  them  without  scruple:  '  In  general  it 
arose  from  the  King's  writs,  and  it  was  granted  with  a  view  to 
balance  the  powers  of  the  nobility,  and  to  obtain  aids  from  the 
people.'  But  without  looking  back  to  an  obscure  antiquity  from 
which  no  certain  information  can  be  collected,  you  will  find  that 
the  laws  of  England  have  much  greater  regard  to  possession  (of 
a  certain  length)  than  to  any  other  title  whatsoever ;  and  that  in 
every  kind  of  property  which  savours  of  the  reality,  this  doctrine 
is  most  wisely  the  basis  of  our  English  jurisprudence" 


BIOHT   HOK.  EDMUND   BUBKE.  89 

your  neighbourhood  one  acre  of  his  land,  or  one 
spoon  from  his  side-board^  to  ccnnpehsate  your  lolises,- 
though  incurred  (as  they  would  have  been  incurred) 
in  the  course  of  a  t^ell-spent,  virtuous,  and  indus-" 
trious  life.  God  is  the  distributor  of  his  own  Uess-* 
ings.  I  will  not  impiously  attempt  to  usurp  hi? 
throne,  but  will  keep  according  to  the  subordinate 
place  and  trust  in  which  he  has  stationed  me,  to 
secure  the  order  of  property  which  I  find  established 
in  my  country.  No  guiltless  man  has  ever  been, 
nor  ever  will,  I  trust,  be  able  to  say  with  truth,  that 
he  has'been  obliged  to  retrench  a  dish  at  his  table  for 
any  reformations  of  mine.- 

^  You  pay  me  the  compliment  to  suppose  me  w 
foe  to  tyranny  and  oppression,  and  you  are,  there- 
fore, surprised  at  the  sentiments  I  have  lately  de- 
livered in  Parliament.  I  am  that  determined  foe  to 
tjrranny,  or  I  greatly  deceive  myself  in  my  cha- 
racter ;  and  I  am  sure  I  am  an  ideot  in  my  conduct. 
It  is  because  I  am,  and  mean  to  continue  so,  that  I 
abominate  the  example  of  France  for  this  country.  I 
know  that  tyranny  seldom  attacks  the  poor>  never 
in  the  first  instance.  They  are  not  its  proper  prey. 
It  falls  on  the  wealthy  and  the  great,  whom  by 
rendering  objects  of  efnvy,  and  otherwise  obno:8iou8 
to  the  multitude,  they  may  more  easily  destroy ;  and 
when  they  are  destroyed,  that  multitude  which  was 
led  to  that  ill-work  by  the  arts  of  bad  men,  is  itself 
undone  for  ever. 

'^  I  hate  tyranny,  at  least  I  think  so ;  but  I  hate 
it  most  of  all  where  most  are  concerned  in  it.  The 
tyranny  of  a  multitude  is  a  multiplied  tyrsxaxy.  If, 
as  society  is  constituted  in  these  large  countries  of 


99  LIFE  OF  THE 

France  and  England,  full  of  unequal  propertjr,  I 
BBuat  make  my  choice  (which  God  avert !)  between 
the  despotism  of  a  single  person,  or  of  the  many, 
my  election  is  made.  As  much  injustice  and  tyranny 
has  been  practised  in  a  few  months  by  a  French  de- 
mocracy, as  in  aU  the  arbitrary  monarchies  in 
Europe  in  the  forty  years  of  my  observation.  I 
speak  of  public  glaring  acts  of  tyranny;  I  say 
nothing  of  the  common  effects  of  old  abusive  govern- 
ments, because  I  do  not  know  that  as  bad  may  not 
be  found  in  the  new. 

^  This  democracy  begins  very  ill ;  and  I  feel  no 
security,  that  what  has  been  rapacious  and  bloody 
at  its  commencement,  will  be  mild  and  protecting  in 
its  final  settlement.  They  cannot,  indeed,  in  future 
rob  so  much,  because  they  have  left  little  that  can 
be  taken.  I  go  to  the  fiill  length  of  my  principle. 
I  should  think  the  government  of  the  deposed  King 
of  France,  or  of  the  late  King  of  Prussia,  or  the 
present  Emperor,  or  the  present  Czarina,  none  of 
them  pertiaps  perfectly  good  people,  to  be  far  better 
than  the  government  of  twenty-four  millions  of  men, 
all  as  good  as  yott,  and  I  do  not  know  any  body 
Wtter ;  supposing  that  those  twenty-four  millions 
would  be  subject,  as  infallibly  they  would,  to  the 
same  unrestrained,  though  virtuous  impulses;  be- 
cause it  is  plain  that  their  majority  would  think 
every  tiling  justified  l^  their  warm  good  intentions — 
they  would  heat  one  another  by  their  conunon  zeal — 
counsel  and  advice  would  be  lost  upon  them — they 
would  not  listen  to  temperate  individuals,  and  they 
would  be  less  capable,  infinitely,  of  moderation  than 
the  most  heady  of  those  princes. 


EIGHT   HON.   BDMtTND   BURKE.  01 

<<  What  have  I  to  da  with  France,  but  as  the 
CGmmon  interest  of  hnmanity,  and  its  example  to 
this  country,  engages  me?  I  know  France,  by 
observation  and  inquiry,  pretly  tolerably  for  a 
stranger ;  and  I  am  not  a  man  to  fell  in  love  with 
the  £ault8  or  follies  of  the  old  or  new  government 
You  reason  as  if  I  were  running  a  parallel  between 
its  former  abusive  government  and  the  present 
tynxmy.  What  had  all  this  to  do  with  the  opinions 
I  delivered  in  Parliament,  which  ran  a  parallel 
between  tke  liberty  they  might  hofce  had  and  thie 
JranMe  delueion.  This  is  the  way  by  which  you 
Uind  and  deceive  yourself,  and  beat  the  air  in  your 
argument  with  me.  Why  do  you  instruct  me  on  a 
state  of  the  case  which  has  no  existence  ?  You  know 
how  to  reason  very  well.  What  most  of  the  news^ 
papers  make  me  say,  I  know  not,  nor  do  I  much 
care.  I  do  not  think,  however,  they  have  thus  stated 
me.  There  is  a  very  fair  abetract  of  my  speech  * 
printed  in  a  little  pamphlet,  which  I  would  send  you 
if  it  were  worth  putting  you  to  the  expense. 

**  To  discuss  the  affairs  of  France  and  its  revo- 
lution would  require  a  volume,  perhaps  many 
volumes.  Your  general  reflections  about  revolutions 
may  be  right  or  wrong ;  they  conclude  nothing.  I 
do  not  find  myself  disposed  to  controvert  them,  for 
I  do  not  think  they  apply  to  the  present  affairs,  nay 
I  am  sure  they  do  not.  I  conceive  you  have  got 
very  imperfect  accounts  of  these  transactions.  I 
believe  I  am  much  more  exactly  informed  of  them. 


*  This  was  by  his  own  authority^  and  has  now  a  place  in  his 
Works. 


92  LIFE   OF  THE 

<<  I  am  sorry,  indeed^  to  find  that  our  opinions  do 
differ  essentially^  fundamentally,  imd  are  at  the 
utmost  possible  distance  from  each  other,  if  I  under- 
stand you  or  myself  clearly  on  (fiis  subject.  Your 
freedom  is  far  from  displeasing  to  me ;  I  love  it ;  for 
I  always  wish  to  know  the  full  of  what  is  in  the 
mind  of  the  friend  I  converse  with.  I  give  you 
mine  as  freely ;  and  I  hope  I  shall  offend  you  as  little 
as  you  do  me. 

**  I  shall  have  no  objection  to  your  showing  my 
letter  to  as  many  as  you  please.  I  have  no  secrets 
with  regard  to  the  public.  I  have  never  shrunk 
from  obloquy ;  and  I  have  never  courted  popular 
applause.  If  I  have  met  with  any  share  of  it,  *  nam 
recepi  sed  rapuV  No  difference  of  opinion,  how- 
ever, shall  hinder  me  from  cultivating  your  friend- 
ship, while  you  permit  me  to  do  so.  I  have  not 
written  this  to  discuss  these  matters  in  a  prolonged 
controversy  (I  wish  we  may  never  say  more  about 
them),  but  to  comply  with,  your  commands,  which 
ever  shall  have  due  weight  with  me. 
'<  I  am  most  respectfully, 

"  And  most  affectionately  yours, 

«  London,  Feb.  26,  1 790.  «  EdMUND  BurKE.*' 

His  correspondent,  however,  possessed  too  much 
pugnacity,  or  too  good .  an  opinion  of  himself,  to 
submit  to  be  written  down  by  any  pen  however 
celebrated,  and  therefore,  instead  of  attending  to  the 
wish  expressed  in  the  latter  part  of  the  preceding 
letter,  he  drew  up  a  rejoinder  in  support  of  his 
opinions,  which  is  much  too  long  for  insertion  here. 
It  abounds,  as  may  be  supposed,  in  the  fundamental 


BIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  03 

errors  Imd  common-place  arguments  of  superficial 
readers  and  thinkers.     He  lays  claim  indeed  to  be 
**  not  a  total  stranger  to  the  subject,"  **  not  a  careless 
or  inattentive  observer,"  as  had  been  insinuated ; 
and  further  goes  on  to  say,  that  a  knowledge  of 
such  matters  is  *^  attainable  by  almost  every  under- 
standing."    In  proof,  no  doubt,  of  the  latter  asser- 
tion, he  boldly  attempts  to  maintain,  that  the  offices 
and  revenues   of  the  chiurch  may  be  carved  out, 
fashioned,  and  appropriated  at  any  time  and  all 
times,  entirely  at  the  pleasure  of  the  state ;  that  the 
whole  of  its  income  and  property  belong  of  right  to 
the  civil  power  as  the  original  owner ;  that  vested 
rights  and  legal  possession  do  not  apply  to  them  in 
the  same  manner  as  to  private  property ;  that  the 
seizure  of  the  whole  by  the  state  would  be  **  no 
infringement  on  the  principles  of  reason,  or  justice, 
or  equity ;"  and  that  the  imion  of  church  and  state 
**  are,  ('  I  beg,'  says  the  writer,  with  a  passing  dash 
of  modesty,  •  you  will  bear  with  my  great  freedom ') 
little  else  than  an  alliance,  or  to  speak  more  pro- 
perly,   a    combination,    between    superstition   and 
tyranny."     The  conduct  of  monarchs,  he  contends, 
**  is  no  more  sacred  by  prescription  than  the  property 
of  the  church;"  **  the  respected  word  Gavemtnent 
ought  not  to  be  applied  to  such  diabolical  conspiracies 
against  the  improvement,  protection,  and  happiness 
of  mankind,"  **  as  the  Russian  and  Prussian  schemes 
of  domination  "  (meaning  their  governments) ;  and 
as  an  appropriate  finish  to  this  effusion  of  liberal 
sentiments  and  patriotic  wisdom  and  moderation, 
thinks  the  French  nation  were  right  in  not  repairing 
or  amending  the  old  national  institutions ;  **  they 


94  LIPE  OF  THE 

attempted  an  entirely  new  fonn  of  government,  and 
I  mo0t  sincerely  wish  they  will  be  able  to  perfect  a 
model  constUuiian  for  all  nationeJ" 

HarrnksB  as  such  absurdities  as  these  would  have 
been  at  any  other  time>  Mr.  Burke  saw  some  cause 
for  disquiet  now,  when  he  found  them  reiterated  from 
innumerable  quarters  by  many  honest  and  well 
pieaning  men,  several  of  them,  as  in  this  instance,  his 
personal  fnends--4>y  men  of  some  weight  from  their 
property,  and  some  reputation  for  sense  and  clever- 
ness frpm  their  success  in  life,  but  all  very  inju«- 
didous  and  mistaken  politicians.  Unimportant 
therefore  as  this  correspondence  was  in  other 
respects,  it  confirmed  him  in  the  design  to  endeavour 
to  undeceive  such  men,  by  examining  the  subject  in 
detail,  in  a  work  expressly  fitted  for  the  puUic  eye. 
There  is  no  doubt  also,  that  the  remarks  of  this  cor^ 
respondent  on ,  ecclesiastical  matters,  gave  births  or 
at  least  greater  length,  to  the  defence  contained  in 
that  work  of  church  establishments. 

The  next  avowed  difierence  of  opinion  of  Mr.  Burke 
with  Opposition  was  oa  the  repeal  of  the  C!orporation 
and  Test  Acts,  moved  by  Mr.  Fox  on  the  Sd  of  March; 
but  it  seemed  rather  an  opposition  as  to  times  and 
circumstances,  than  from  principle ;  and  in  the  course 
of  it  he  warmly  defended  his  right  honourable  friend, 
the  mover,  firom  insinuations  thrown  out  against  his 
enterprising  character,  in  case  of  coming  into  power, 
by  Mr.  Pitt.  ^  He  was  surprised  that  the  Chancellor 
of  the  Elxehequer  should  think  ill  of  a  friend  of  the 
dissenters, — ^more  especially  when  it  was  remem- 
bered that  a  former  minister  of  this  country — a  man 
of  brilliant  talents  and  acknowledged  abilities — ^who 


RIOHT   QON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  9S 

had  directed  the  goy&tnmjsat  with  great  gkvy  to  its 
national  character,  and  great  safety  to  the  constitu* 
tion  in  church  and  state— 4i  man  whom  he  belicTed 
the  right  honourable  gentleman  would  not  think 
lightly  of — ^he  meant  the  Earl  of  Chatham — had 
been  considered  an  especial  protector  of  the  dissen- 
ters. That  Noble  L<»d  had  gone  so  far  as  to  tell 
the  House  of  Peers,  in  reply  to  an  accusation  of  Dr. 
Drummond,  Archbishop  of  York,  of  the  pastors  of  the 
dissenters,  being  **  men  of  close  ambition."  *^  They 
are  so,  my  hords ;  and  their  ambition  is  to  keep 
dose  to  the  college  of  fishermen,  not  of  cardinals ; 
to  the  doctrine  of  inspired  apostles,  not  to  the 
degrees  of  interested  and  aspiring  bishops.  They 
contend  for  a  spiritual  creed  and  spiritual  worship. 
We  have  a  Calvinistic  creed,  a  popish  liturgy,  and 
an  Arminian  clergy."  Thus  his  lordship  selected 
the  worst  names  of  other  religions  to  applyto  our 
church  and  liturgy. 

*  Had  the  present  question,  he  continued,  been 
brought  on  ten  years  sooner,  he  himself  would  have 
felt  bound  to  vote  in  the  affirmative ;  but  such  doubts 
had  since  arisen  in  his  mind,  that  when  the  same 
thing  was  moved  in  1787  and  1789  (by  Mr.  Beaufoy), 
extremely  miwilling  to  vote  against  it,  yet  not  satii^ed 
that  he  was  right  in  voting  for  it,  he  had  quitted  the 
House  without  voting  at  all.  At  the  present  mo- 
ment, he  thought  the  repeal  more  particularly  inex- 
pedient— there  was  a  wild  spirit  of  innovation 
abroad  which  required  not  indulgence  but  restraint 
—for  the  avowed  leadars  of  the  dissenters,  alluding 
to  Drs.  Price,  Priestley,  Kipf»s,  Towers,  and  others, 
had,  in  their  speeches,  writings,  resolutions,  and  even 


96  L1P£  OP  THE' 

catechisms  and  sermons^  given  countenance  not 
merely  to  the  worst  portion  of  the  politi<»l  spirit  of 
the  day,  but  some  of  them  had  openly  threatened  a 
direct  attack  upon  the  church  establishment 

*  Such,  he  firmly  believed,  was  not  the  intention 
of  the  respectable  body  with  which  those  persons 
were  connected:  he  had  ever  entertained  for  that 
body  the  highest  respect  and  esteem,  and  among  its 
members  were  some  of  his  best  friends ;  but  while 
they  permitted  such  persons  to  take  the  lead  in  their 
affairs,  they  became  in  the  general  opinion,  and  in 
fact,  responsible  in  some  degree  for,  and  identified 
with,  such  sentiments.  After  all,  as  some  test  would 
probably  be  required  by  the  country  if  these  acts 
were  repealed,  he  had  brought  the  draught  of  one 
in  his  pocket; — ^the  present  he  had  always  thought 
a  bad  and  insufficient  test  for  the  end  it  was  meant 
to  accomplish ;  it  was  a  great  abuse  of  the  sacra- 
mental rite — a  rite  infinitely  too  sacred  and  too 
solemn  to  be  prostituted,  as  it  often  was,  for  very 
trivial  purposes.' ^Whatever  was  the  cause — ^whe- 
ther from  the  effect  of  this  speech,  which  embraced 
many  details  of  the  hostile  spirit  of  dissenters  to 
the  church,  or  the  exertions  of  Mr.  Pitt,  or  the 
general  alarm  in  the  country,  this  question,  that  in 
the  preceding  session  received  a  faint  negative  from 
no  more  than  20,  was  now  smothered  by  a  majority 
of  189. 

In  the  general  abuse,  which,  whether  right  or 
wrong  ^nd  at  all  hazards,  the  favourers  of  French 
politics  thought  it  their  duty  soon  afterwards  to  pour 
upon  Mr.  Burke,  miany  pages  were  written  to  prove 
him  guilty  of  ^  gross  inconsistency  in  thus  opposing 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BUEKE.  .      97 

a  measure  which  ^  he  had  formerly  supported  with 
all  his  powers.  It  is  likewise  remarkable  that  nearly 
as  many  pages  were  employed  to  defend  him  from  this 
charge,  on  the  ground  that  the  dissenters  of  1790 
being  busy  meddling  politicians,  whose  aim  was  the 
possession  of  political  power  rather  than  religious 
freedom,  he  was  justified  in  denying  to  them  what 
he  had  wished  to  concede  to  the  conscientious  body 
who  soUdted  his  support  in  1772* 

This  attack,  like  many  others  made  upon  him, 
arose  from  misinformation ;  and  the  defence  therefore 
though  well-meant  was  unnecessary.  He  did  920/ advo- 
cate the  repeal  of  the  test  act  in  1772,  for  the  simple 
reason  that  no  such  repeal  was  proposed.  The  facts  of 
the  matter  were  these.  At  the  period  in  question  the 
dissenting  ministers  applied  for  an  enlargement  of 
the  toleration  act,  or  for  a  repeal  of  the  clause  which 
req-uired  subscription  to  the  articles  as  a  condition  of 
eugoying  the  benefits  of  that  act.  This  claim — and 
this  alone — ^he  supported  ;  as  he  continued  to  do  in 
1773,  and  again  in  1779  when  it  was  conceded ;  but 
at  neither  of  these  periods  was  there  an  application 
made  for  the  repeal  of  the  test  act. 

The  other  chief  measures  in  which  he  took  part 
were  in  voting  an  increase  of  income  to  the  Speaker 
of  the  House  of  Commons,  paying,  in  the  course  of 
fais  speech,  several  compliments  to  Mr.  Addington, 
who  then  filled  the  chair,  for  his  **  impartiality, 
attention,  and  diligence,  which  had  not  only  an- 
awered  the  expectations  of  his  own  friends,  but 
satisfied  the  House  in  general ; "'  on  the  claim  of 
the  Duke  of  Athol  for  certain  rights  in  the  Isle  of 
Man,  which  he  stigmatized  as  a  job,  and  which  from 

VOL.  11.  H 


98:  LIFE   OF  THE 

the  sense  of  the  House  appearing  against  it,  was 
put  off;  on  the  quarrel  with  Spain  respecting  Nootka 
Sound,  his  opinion  being  strongly  in  favour  of  ac« 
commodation,  for  that  ^*  as  we  never  ought  to  go  to 
war  for  a  profitable  wrong,  so  we  ought  never  to  go 
to  war  for  an  unprofitable  right ;  and  therefore  he 
hoped  that  the  intended  armament  would  be  consi- 
dered not  as  a  measure  calculated  to  terminate  the 
war  happily,  but  to  enable  Ministers  to  carry  on  the 
negikdation  vigorously;"  on  a  censure  passed  on 
Major  Scott  for  a  libel  on  the  House ;  and  on  two 
resolutions  of  the  managers  of  the  impeachment 
moved  by  himself,  which  were  to  persevere  in  the 
trial  generally ;  while,  for  the  sake  of  expedition  in 
deciding  it,  they  were  to  select  only  the  more 
important  charges  for  adjudication. 

In  addition  to  these  exertions,  he  opposed  a  motion 
by  Mr.Floodforparliamentary  reform,  which  produced 
a  very  candid  confession  from  Mr.  Fox,  that  though 
he  thought  such  a  measure  advisable,  the  country  at 
large  did  not  seem  to  be  of  the  same  opinion.  A  jest 
of  Burke  on  this  question,  widely  disseminated  in 
private  society,  threw  much  ridicule  upon  the  en- 
thusiasts in  this  cause.  A  new  party  of  Reformers, 
he  said,  had  arisen  still  more  pure  in  their  creed 
than  the  rest,  who  deemed  annual  parliaments  not 
sufficiently  frequent,  and  quoted,  in  support  of  their 
doctrine,  the  latter  words  of  the  Statute  of  Edward 
in.,  that  **  a  parliament  shall  be  holden  every  year 
once  and  mare  often  tfneed  he''  How  to  designate 
these  gentlemen  from  their  less  orthodox  associates 
he  knew  not,  except  indeed  their  tenets  furnished  the 
hint,  and  they  be  known  as  the  Qfiener'if'-needJpe's! 


RIGHT  HON,  EDMUNU  BURKE.  99 

A  proposition,  through  the  medium  of  some 
common  friends,  was  made  to  Mr.  Burke  about  this 
period,  by  his  former  acquaintance  Gerrard  Hamilton, 
to  renew  that  intimacy  which  had  so  long  suffered 
estrangement,  but  this  offer  he  declined.  He  had 
told  Mr.  Flood  at  the  time,  there  was  **  an  eternal 
separation  '*  between  them, — that  "  he  would  not 
keep  a  memorial  of  such  a  person  about  him,'*  and 
possibly  the  recollection  of  some  random  sarcasms, 
which  Hamilton,  though  he  always  did  full  justice 
to  his  uncommon  powers,  had  occasionally  let  off 
against  his  party  and  himself,  might  have  tended  to 
make  him  keep  his  word.  The  reply  made  to  the 
communication  was,  that  without  entertaining  the 
slightest  resentful  or  unfriendly  feeling  toward  Mr« 
Hamilton,  there  were  several  circumstances  in  their 
connexion  and  separation,  and  long  subsequent 
alienation,  which  would  prevent  his  enjojdng  the 
some  pleasure  as  formerly  in  his  society,  and  there- 
fore a  renewal  of  intimacy  might  not  be  very  satis- 
fiftctory  to  either.  It  is  said,  that  had  Lord  Temple 
ever  become  Minister,  it  was  his  intention  to  make 
Mr.  Hamilton  his  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer ;  and 
it  must  ever  be  considered  an  enigma,  that  any  one 
looking  forward  to  such  a  post,  should  not  have 
made  himself  of  more  importance  in  Pariiament 
than  he  did,  by  frequently  speaking.  No  explana- 
tion has  ever  been  given  of  his  taciturnity,  except 
the  illiberal  one  be  surmised,  that  he  already  enjoyed 
in  a  rich  sinecure  all  the  substantial  return  Jie  could 
expect  for  much  talking. 


H  S^ 


100  LIFE   OF   THE 


CHAPTER  II. 

Publication  of  Reflections  on  the  Revolution  in  France.— Testi* 
monies  in  its  favour. — Reply  of  Burke  to  the  Universities  of 
Dublin  and  Oxford^  and  to  Mr.  Cumberland. — Thomas  Paine. 
— Character  of  Henry  IV.  of  France. — Letter  to  a  Member  a£ 
the  National  Assembly. — Rupture  with  Mr.  Fox. — Jury  Bill 
of  1791  • — Parliamentary  business-^Anecdotes. 


From  the  moment  of  the  rupture  with  Mr.  She- 
ridan, Mr.  Burke,  perceiving  that  his  opinions  on 
the  French  Revolution  were  very  generally  misun- 
derstood or  misrepresented,  and  willing  also  to  state 
them  more  fully  and  forcibly  to  the  world  than  even 
parliamentary  speaking  would  allow,  as  well  as  to 
enable  the  reflecting  part  of  mankind  to  think  more 
justly,  as  he  believed,  of  the  event  itself,  decided  to 
call  in  the  aid  of  the  press. 

This  task  was  begun  and  carried  on  during  the 
summer  with  his  wonted  ardour  and  disr^;ard  of 
labour,  and,  alluding  to  the  anxious  emotions  to 
which  it  gave  rise,  he  says,  in  a  letter  to  Lord  Charle- 
mont,  of  the  25th  May,  **  I  have  been  at  once  much 
occupied  and  much  agitated' with  my  employment.'' 
The  elements  of  the  work,  however,  had  been  for 
some  months  floating  in  his  mind,  and  in  fact  no 
inconsiderable  portion  of  it,  or  at  least  matter  nearly 
similar,  were  akeady  in  various  forms  committed  to 
paper.  These  were  collected,  re-written,  enlarged, 
amended,  and  re-modelled  to  the  form  in  which  he  had 
determined  to  publish — ^that  of  a  letter  to  the  French 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  101 

gentleman  who  had  before  consulted  him  on  the 
subject.  The  whole  was  polished  with  extraordinary 
care,  more  than  a  dozen  of  proofs  being  worked  oflF 
and  destroyed' according  to  Dodsley's  account,  before 
he  covld  please  himself;  it  was  set  off  with  eveiy 
attraction  of  the  highest  style  of  eloquence  of  which 
the  English  language  is  susceptible,  and  the  most 
vivid  and  striking  imagery  in  the  whole  compass  of 
English  prose ;  it  was  impressed  on  the  judgment 
by  acute  reasoning,  by  great  penetration  into  the 
motives  of  human  action,  by  maxims  of  the  most 
sound  and  practical  wisdom ;  by  expositions  of  the 
impracticable  nature  of  the  new  government,  and 
the  evil  designs  of  its  framers;  nothing,  indeed, 
which  his  genius,  his  knowledge,  or  his  observation 
could  supply,  was  omitted  to  give  popularity  to  the 
"  Reflections  on  the  Revolution  in  France.** 

In  the  beginning  of  November,  1790,  this  cele- 
brated work  made  its  appearance,  and  a  French 
translation,  by  his  friend  M.  Dupont,  an  advocate 
formerly  in  Paris,  quickly  spread  its  reputation  over 
allEurope.  Thepublication proved  one  of  theremark- 
able  events  of  the  year,  perhaps  of  the  century ;  for 
it  may  be  doubted  whether  any  previous  political 
production  ever  excited  so  much  attention,  so  much 
discussion,  so  much  praise  from  one  party,  so  much 
animadversion  from  another,  but  ultimately,  among 
the  great  majority  of  persons,  such  general  convic- 
tion of  the  correctness  of  his  views,  as  to  have  fully 
succeeded  in  turning  the  stream  of  public  opinion  to 
the  direction  he  wished,  from  the  channel  in  which 
it  had  hitherto  flowed.  The  circulation  of  the  book 
corresponded  with  its  fame ;  within  the  first  year 


102  LIFE  0]>:   THE 

about  19^000  copies  were  80I4  in  England^  aad 
about  18,000  in  France;  the  whole  number  sold 
of  English  copies  is  estimated  at  more  thim  80»000 
-.4ind  this  at  a  time  when  there  was  not  a  third  of 
the  demand  for  books  of  any  kind  that  there  is  at 
present; — and  some  experienced  booksellers  have 
said  that  the  sale  was  greater  than  any  preceding 
book  whatever  of  the  same  price.  The  interest 
which  it  excited  did  not  cease  with  the  moment,  for 
it  was  sought  after  then  and  since  by  persons  little 
prone  to  political  discussion,  for  the  wisdom  of  the 
lessons  it  taught ;  by  many  for  its  literary  beauties ; 
by  many  in  order  to  retrace  the  outline  of  fearful 
and  extraordinary  events  there  in  great  measure 
foretold  ;  and  it  will  ever  be  a  source  of  deep  into* 
rest  to  the  practical  statesman,  and  of  unfeigned 
admiration  to  the  man  of  taste  and  genius. 

A  laboured  analysis  of  this  or  any  other  of  the 
more  celebrated  writings  of  this  eloquent  man,  is 
not  intended  here,  rather  perhaps  from  want  of  in- 
clination in  the  writer  than  from  want  of  materials, 
which  would  add  more  certainly  to  the  size  of  the 
present  work  than  perhaps  to  the  edification  of  the 
reader.  In  the  instance  before  us  it  is  particularly 
unnecessary.  Almost  every  man  who  pretends  tc 
read  at  all,  has  read  it.  To  him  who  has,  such  a 
disquisition  would  be  at  best  meagre  and  imsatisfac* 
tory^  To  him  who  has  not,  it  would  impart  no 
means  of  justly  appreciating  the  force  and  beauty  of 
the  original ;  for  of  Burke  it  has  been  said,  as 
Johnson  remarked  of  Shakspeare,  that  to  attempt 
to  recommend  him  by  select  extracts  would  be  but 
to  follow  the  example  of  the  pedant  in  Hierocles, 


KIGHT   HON.   £DMUVD   BURKE.  103 

who,  when  he  offered  his  house  to  sale»  carried  a 
brick  in  his  podket  as  a  specimen.  Many  of  the 
passages  in  it  form  matter  of  continual  quotation 
for  their  eloquence ;  and  few  of  its  pages  but  contain 
something  profound  in  remark,  novel  in  thought, 
and  ingenious  and  beautiful  in  illustration.  The 
peroration,  though  in  general  but  little  noticed,  is 
not  the  least  striking  passage ;  nor  will  the  prophetic 
remaric  on  the  vicissitudes  likely  to  be  experienced 
in  the  forms  of  the  new  government,  be  lightly 
passed  over  by  the  reader. 

"  I  have  told  you  candidly,''  he  says  to  his  cor* 
respondent,  ^  my  sentiments.  I  think  they  are  not 
likely  to  alter  your's.  I  do  not  know  that  they 
ought.  You  are  young;  you  cannot  guide,  but 
must  follow  the  fortune  of  your  country.  But  here- 
after they  may  be  of  some  use  to  you,  in  some  future 
form  which  your  commonwealth  may  take.  In  the 
present  it  can  hardly  remain;  hiU  before  its  final 
settlement  it  may  be  obliged  to  pass,  as  one  of  our 
poets  saySf  *  through  great  varieties  of  untried 
beings'  and  in  all  its  transmigrations  to  be  pur^d 
by  fire  and  Mood. 

**  I  have  little  to  recommend  my  opinions  but 
long  observation  and  much  impartiality.  They 
come  from  one  who  has  been  no  tool  of  power,  no 
flatterer  of  greatness ;  and  who  in  his  last  acts  does 
not  wish  to  belie  the  tenour  of  his  life.  They  come 
from  one  almost  the  whole  of  whose  public  exertion 
has  been  a  struggle  for  the  liberty  of  others ;  from 
one  in  whose  breast  no  anger  durable  or  vehement 
has  ever  been  kindled,  but  by  what  he  considered  as 
tyranny ;  and  who  snatches  from  his  share  in  the 


104  LIFE  OF  THE 

endeavours  ^diich  are  used  by  good  men  to  dkcredit 
qpulent  oppression,*  the  hours  he  has  employed  on 
your  affairs ;  and  who  in  so  doing  persuades  himself 
he  has  not  departed  from  his  usual  office :  they  come 
from  one  who  desires  honours,  distinctions,  and 
emoluments,  but  little ;  and  who  expects  them  not 
at  all ;  who  has  no  contempt  for  fame,  and  no  fear 
of  obloquy ;  who  shuns  contention  though  he  will 
hazard  an  opinion :  from  one  who  wishes  to  preserve 
consistency;  but  who  would  preserve  consistency 
by  varying  his  means  to  secure  the  unity  of  his 
end ;  and  when  the  equipoise  of  the  vessel  in  which 
he  sails  may  be  endangered  by  overloading  it  upon 
one  side,  is  desirous  of  carrying  the  small  weight  of 
Ids  reasons  to  that  which  may  preserve  its  equi- 
poise."! 

The  testimonies  of  approval  which  flowed  in  upon 
the  writer  from  every  quarter  soon  after  the  ap- 
pearance of  his  book,  evinced  not  merely  the  admi- 
ration of  his  eloquence  and  literary  talents ;  but  his 
power  over  the  question  in  discussion :  no  writer 
probably  was  ever  before  so  complimented. 

The  Sovereigns  subsequently  assembled  at  Pilnitz, 
particularly  the  Emperor  of  Grermany,  transmitted 
to  him  through  one  of  his  Ministers,  with  whom  Mr. 
Burke  had  some  future  correspondence,  a  tribute  of 
decided  approbation.     The  French  Princes  did  the 

*  In  allusion  to  the  proeecution  of.  Mr.  Hastings. 

t  To  preserve  the  euphony  of  the  last  sentence^  the  completeness 
of  the  nautical  metaphor^  and  to  save  the  repetition  of  the  word 
equipnge  which  exists  in  the  same  sentence^  a  sailor  would  have 
finidied  it  thusj— ''  which  may  preserve  it  upon  an  even  keeL** 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  105 

same  through  his  son  and  Mons:  Cazales.  Catherine 
of  Russia  directed  her  Embaissador,  Count  de  Worow- 
zow»  to  communicate  in  her  name  sentiments  of  a 
similar  nature.  His  late  Majesty,  George  III.,  not 
only  gave  the  work  an  attentive  perusal,  but  had  a 
number  of  copies  elegantly  bound,  which  he  distri- 
buted among  his  friends  with  the  remark,  that  it  was 
^  a  book  which  every  gentleman  ought  to  read." 
Stanislaus,  the  unfortunate  King  of  Poland,  to  whom 
Mr.  Burke  was  personally  known,  sent  him  his  like- 
ness on  a  gold  medal,  with  a  letter  written  in  Eng- 
lish, deeming  that  language,  as  he  said,  the  most 
copious  and  energetic  to  convey  the  high  sense 
which  he  entertained  of  his  patriotism  and  talents. 

The  reply  of  the  orator  stated  in  expressive  terms 
that  so  high  a  mark  of  esteem  might  be  supposed 
to  awaken  his  vanity,  but  it  tended  rather  to  excite 
his  veneration   and  esteem  for  the  character  of  a 
Prince  whom  he  had  long  admired.     He  possessed, 
.he  said,  no  cabinet  of  medals,  but  had  he  the  richest 
in  the  universe,  he  was  persuaded  he  would  be  at  a 
loss  in  what  illustrious  series   to  place  that  of  his 
Majesty : — ^it  must  be  placed  the  first  of  a  new  one  : 
— ^he  had  a  son,  and  happy  would  it  be  for  that  son 
if  he  lived  to  be  able  to  add  a  second  to  it.     He 
praised  the   revolution  in  Poland,   the  origin  and 
progress  of  which  he  ascribed  to  the  King;  **  you," 
said  he,  **  that  may  be  truly  called  the  father,  and 
not  the  proprietor  of  your  people." 

The  praises  of  the  learned,  however,  preceded,  in 
the  order  of  time,  the  approval  of  the  great.  The 
first  tribute  of  this  kind  which  he  received  from  a 


lOfi  LIFE  OF   THE 

public  body,  came  very  appropriately,  as  the  nurse 
of  his  genius,  from  Trinity  College,  Dublin.  In 
December  1790,  on  a  motion  of  the  Provost  (the 
head  of  the  University)  the  honorary  d^^ree  of 
LL.D,  was  unanimously  conferred  upon  him  in 
full  convocation,  and  an  address  afterwards  pmented 
in  a  gold  box,  to  express  their  senae  of  his  services 
— ^*  as  the  powerful  advocate  of  the  constitution, 
the  6asaA  of  public  order,  virtue,  and  the  happiness 
of  mankind ;  and  in  testimony  of  the  high  respect 
entertained  by  the  University  for  the  various  endow- 
ments of  his  capacious  mind,  and  for  his  superior 
talents  and  abilities."  The  following  was  his  reply, 
addressed  to  the  Provost. 

"My  deae  Sie, 
"  I  find  it  difficult  indeed  to  make  a  proper  ac- 
knowledgment to  you  for  the  very  flattering  mark 
I  received  of  your  continued  friendship  and  partiality 
to  me  in  your  letter  of  the  13th  of  this  month.  This 
proof  of  your  private  friendship  is  as  valuable  to  me 
as  the  public  distinction  which  I  owe  to  your  motion, 
and  which  comes  through  your  hands,  though  you 
wUl  believe  that  I  feel  the  approbation  of  the  Uni- 
versity as  one  of  the  greatest  honours  which  could 
be  conferred  upon  me.  The  University  is  indeed 
highly  generous  in  accepting  with  so  much  indul- 
gence the  produce  of  its  own  gifts.  I  am  infinitely 
happy  that  that  learned  body  has  been  pleased  to 
recognize  in  the  piece  it  condescends  to  favour,  the 
unaltered  subsistence  of  those  principles  of  liberty 
and  morality  along  with  some  faint  remains  of  that 
taste  of  composition,   which  are  infused  and  have 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BUUKE.  107 

ftlways  been  infused  together,  into  the  minds  o£  those 
who  have  the  happiness  to  be  instructed  by  it. 

**  I  received  this  most  honourable  testimony  of 
your  approbation  just  as  I  was  going  to  the  House 
of  Commons  yesterday  to  recommence  my  tenth 
year's' warfare  against  the  most  dangerous  enemy  to 
the  justice,  honour,  laws,  morals,  and  constitution  of 
this  coimtry  by  which  they  have  ever  been  attacked : 
I  mean  the  corruption  which  has  come  upon  tfe  from 
the  East,  and  in  which  I  act  with  every  thing  re- 
spectable in  every  party  in  the  House.  Though  I 
had  been  for  some  days  ill  in  health,  and  not  very 
full  of  spirits,  your  letter  enabled  me  to  go  through 
a  long  and  fatiguing  day,  if  not  with  strength,  at 
least  with  resolution.  I  thought  that  the  university 
which  had  bred  me,  called  upon  me,  not  to  disgrace 
in  my  last  stage,  the  lessons  she  had  taught  me  in 
the  early  period  of  my  life ;  and  I  hope,  old  as  I 
am,  I  shall  prove  as  docile  to  her  lessons  as  when  I 
was  subject  to  her  discipline. 

**  Excuse  my  not  saying  all  that  my  heart  would 
dictate  on  this  occasion  to  you  and  the  gentlemen  of 
the  university ;  but  the  consequences  of  a  late  day 
disable,  and  I  hope  will  excuse  me.  But  believe 
me,  when  I  assure  you  that  I  am  ever,  with  the 
most  perfect  respect  and  affection, 

"  My  dear  Sir, 
**  Your  most  obliged  and  faithful  humble  servant, 

«*  Duke  Street,  St  James's,  "  EdMUND  BurKE. 

*'  Decs.  18,  1790." 

An  address  from  the  resident  graduates  of  Oxford 
was  about  the  same  time,  presented  to  him  through 


108  LIFE  OF  THE 

Mr.  Windham,*  which  spoke  the  sentiments  of 
nearly  the  whole  of  the  university,  though  a  tern** 
porary  cabal  or  misimderstanding  among  the  heads 
of  houses,  prevented  the  diploma  degree  of  LL.D. 
being  conferred  upon  a  Writer  whose  philosophical 
essay  on  the  Sublime  and  Beautiful,  forms  a  book  of 
reference  connected  with  the  education  of  youth  in 
their  establishment,  and  whose  eloquence  in  this 
instance  tended  to  preserve  and  honour  that  esta- 
blishment itself.  The  reply  to  Mr.  Windham  was 
as  follows : — 

"  My  dear  Sir, 
^*  The  valuable  present  I  received  from  the  resi- 
dent graduates  in  the  university  of  Oxford,  becomes 
doubly  acceptable  in  passing  through  your  hands. 
Gentlemen  so  eminent  for  science,  erudition,  and 
virtue,  and  who  possess  the  uncommon  art  of  doing 
kind  things  in  the  kindest  manner,  would  naturally 
choose  a  person  qualified  like  themselves  to  convey 
their  favours  and  distinctions  to  those  whom  they 
are  inclined  to  honour.     Be  pleased  to  assure  those 

*  ^*  To  the  Right  Honourable  Edmund  Burke. 

*^  We  whose  names  are  hereunto  subscribed^  resident  graduates 
in  the  University  of  Oxford^  request  you  to  accept  this  respectful 
declaration  of  our  sentiments^  as  a  tribute  which  we  are  desirous 
of  paying  to  splendid  talents  employed  in  the  advancement  of 
pubUc  good.  We  think  it  fit  and  becoming  the  friends  of  our 
church  and  state  to  avow  openly  their  obligations  to  those  who 
distinguish  themselves  in  the  support  of  our  approved  establish- 
ments; and  we  judge  it  to  be  our  especial  duty  to  do  this  in 
seasons  peculiarly  marked  by  a  spirit  of  rash  and  dangerous  inno- 
vation. 

**  As  members  of  an  university  whose  institutions  embrace  every 
useful  and  ornamental  part  of  learning,  we  should  esteem  oilr- 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  109 

learned  gentlemen  that  I  am  beyond  measure  happy 
in  finding  my  well-meant  endeavours  well  received 
by  them ;  and  I  think  my  satisfaction  does  not  arise 
from  motives  merely  selfish,  because  their  declared 
approbation  must  be  of  the  greatest  importance  in 
giving  an  effect  (which,  without  that  sanction,  might 
well  be  wanting)  to  an  humble  attempt  in  favour  of 
the  cause  of  freedom,  virtue,  and  order,  united. 

*^  This  cause  it  is  our  common  wish  and  our 
common  interest  to  maintain ;  and  it  can  hardly  be 
maintained  without  securing  on  a  solid  foundation, 
and  preserving  in  an  uncorrupted  purity,  the  noble 
establishments  which  the  wisdom  of  our  ancestors 
has  formed  for  giving  permanency  to  those  blessings 
which  they  have  left  to  us  as  our  best  inheritance. 

*^  We  have  all  a  concern  in  maintaining  them  all : 
but  if  all  those  who  are  more  particularly  engaged 
in  some  of  those  establishments,  and  who  have. a 
peculiar  trust  in  maintaining  them,  were  wholly  to 
decline  all  marks  of  their  concurrence  in  opinion,  it 
might  give  occasion  to  malicious  people  to  suggest 
doubts,  whether  the  representation  I  had  given  was 
really  expressive  of  the  sentiments  of  the  people  on 

selves  justified  in  making  this  address,  if  we  had  ooly  to  oflfer  you 
our  thanks  for  the  valuable  accession  which  the  stock  of  our 
national  literature  has  received  by  the  publication  of  your  import- 
ant '  Reflections.'  But  we  have  higher  objects  of  consideration^ 
and  nobler  motives  to  gratitude :  we  are  persuaded  that  we  con- 
sult the  real  and  permanent  interests  of  this  place,  when  we 
acknowledge  the  eminent  service  rendered  both  to  our  dvil  and 
religious  constitution  by  your  able  and  disinterested  vindication  of 
their  true  principles ;  and  we  obey  the  yet  more  sacred  obligation 
to  promote  the  cause  of  religion  and  morality,  when  we  give  this 
proof  that  we  honour  the  advocate  by  whom  they  are  so  eloquently 
and  effectually  defended. 


lift  LIFE  OF  THE 

tliose  subjeets.     I  am  obliged  to  those  gentlemen  for 
haying  removed  the  ground  of  those  doubts. 

*^  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  &c.  &c.  &c. 

**  Edmund  Burke." 

The  Archbishop  of  Aix,  and  others  of  the  dig- 
nified clergy  of  France,  wrote  several  letters  to  him 
expressive  of  their  obligations  and  acknowledgments 
*^  that  the  first  orator  of  England*  had  become  their 
defender."  Nearly  all  the  superior  members  of  our 
own  church,  the  great  body  of  the  nobility,  the  moet^ 
eminent  statesmen  with  a  few  exceptions,  and  seveiai 
of  the  chief  men  of  letters,  pronounced  him  the 
saviour  not  merely  of  the  English  but  of  ail  esta« 
blished  governments. 

One  of  those  who  from  his  heart,  principles,  and 
taste,  he  thought  best  qualified  to  form  an  opinion^ 
was  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds;  to  him  therefore  the 
work  was  submitted  in  manuscript,  and  it  receii^ 
his  imqualified  approval.  Gibbon  proved  particu- 
larly warm  in  his  applause.  ^^  I  thirst,"  said  he,  a 
sdiort  time  before  he  saw  the  volume,  **  for  Mr. 
Burke's  Reflections  on  the  Revolution  in  France." 
After  perusing  it,  he  wrote  on  two  occasions — 
**  Burke's  book  is  a  most  admirable  medicine  against 
the  French  disease.  I  admire  his  eloquence;  I 
approve  his  politics;  I  adore  his  chivalry;  and  I 
can  almost  forgive  his  reverence  for  church  establish- 
ments ;"  showing  in  the  last  clause  of  this  sentence 
what  inconsistency  a  prejudice  may  cause  a  learned 
and  acute  man  to  commit,  as  if  he  seemed  uncon- 
scious that  not  to  uphold  the  church  would  be  to 


RIOHT  HON.  BBMTTND  BUKKE.  Ill 

relinquish  one  of  the  strongest  arguments  for  the 
stability  of  the  state. 

^  I  conceive,"  writes  Cumberland,  who,  though 
seldom  given  to  eulogize  a  brother  author,  was  on 
this  occasion  surprised  into  an  express  letter  of  con- 
gratulation the  first  week  after  the  publication,  a 
proof  at  least  of  his  critical  judgment — **  there  is 
not  to  be  found  in  all  the  writings  of  my  day,  per- 
haps I  may  say  not  in  the  Englfeh  languagie,  so 
brilliant  a  cluster  of  fine  and  beautifid  passages  as 
we  are  presented  with  in  Edmund  Burke's  inimitable 
tract  on  the  French  Revolution.  It  is  most  highly 
coloured  and  most  richly  ornamented,  but  there  is 
eh^nce  in  its  splendour,  and  dignity  in  its  mag- 
nificence. The  orator  demands  attention  in  a  loud 
and  lofty  tone,  but  his  voice  never  loses  its  melody, 
nor  his  periods  their  sweetness.  When  he  •  has 
roused  us  with  the  thunder  of  his  eloquence,  he  can 
at  once,  Timothensrlike,  choose  a  melancholy  theme, 
and  melt  us  into  pity :  there  is  grace  in  his  anger ; 
for  he  can  inveigh  without  vulgarity ;  he  can  modu« 
late  the  strongest  burst  of  passion,  for  even  in  his 
madness  there  is  music." 

To  the  letter  from  this  gentleman  the  following 
was  the  reply: — 

'<  Beaeonsiield^  November  IS,  1790; 

**  Dear  Sir, 

'*  I  was  yesterday  honoured  with   your  most 

obliging  letter.     You  may  be  assured  that  nothing 

could  be  more  flattering  to  me  than  the  approbation 

of  a  gentleman  so  distinguished  in  literature  as  you 


112  tIFE  OV  THE 

are,  and  in  so  great  a  variety  of  its  branches^  It  is 
an  earnest  to  me  of  that  degree  of  toleration  in  the 
public  judgment,  which  may  give  my  reasonings 
some  chance  of  ^  being  useful.  I  know  however 
that  I  am  indebted  to  your  politeness  and  your  good 
natiureas  much  as  to  your  opinion,  for  the  indulgent 
.  manner  in  which  you  have  been  pleased  to  receive 
my  endeavour. 

".  Whether  I  have. described  our  cpuntrfrmen  pror 
perly,  time  is  to  show :  I  hope  I  have,  but.  at  aay 
rate  it  is  perhaps  the  best  way  to  persuade  them  to 
be  right  by .  supposing  that  they .  are  so.  Great 
bodies  like  great  men  must  be  instructed  in  the  way 
in  which  they  will.be  best  pleased  to  receive  instruc- 
tion ;  flattery  itself  may  be  converted  into,  a  mode 
of  counsel ;  laudando  admonere  has  not  always 
been  the  most  unsuccessful  method  of  advice.  In 
this  case  moral  policy  requires  it,  for  when  you 
must  expose  the  practices  of  some  kinds  of  men, 
you  do  nothing  if  you  do  not  distinguish  them  from 
others. 

<'  Accept  once  more  my  best  acknowledgments  for 
the  very  handsome  manner  in  which  you  have  been 
pleased  to  consider  my  pamphlet,  and  do  me  the 
justice  to  believe  me,  with  the  most  perfect  respect, 

"  Dear  Sir, 
"  Your  most  faithful  and  obliged  humble  servant, 

"  Edmund  Bukke.'* 

Several  eulogies  as  strong  as  that  of  Cumberland 
might  be  transcribed,  but  one  delivered  soon  after^ 
ward  by  a  professed  political  opponent,  the  late  Lord 


&IOHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  113 

(then  Mr.)  Erskiiie,  is  too  ju8t  and  characteristic  to 
be  omitted. 

^  I  shall  take  care  to  put  Mr.  Burke's  work,  on 
the  French  Bevolution,  into  the  hands  of  those 
whose  principles  are  left  to  my  formation.  I  shall 
take  care  that  they  have  the  advantage  of  doing,  in 
Che  regular  progression  of  youthful  studies,  what  I 
have  done  even  in  the  short  intervals  of  laborious 
life;  that  they  shall  transcribe,  with  their  own 
hands,  from  all  the  works  of  this  most  extraordinary 
person,  and  from  the  last  among  the  rest,  the  sound- 
est truths  of  religion;  the  justest  principles  of 
morals,  inculcated  and  rendered  delightful  by  the 
most  sublime  eloquence ;  the  highest  reach  of  philo- 
sophy,  brought  down  to  the  level  of  common  minds, 
by  the  most  captivating  taste ;  the  most  enlightened 
observations  on  history,  and  the  most  copious  col- 
lection of  useful  maxims  from  the  experience  of 
common  life ;  and  separate  for  themselyes  the  good 
from  the  bad." 

Another  writer*  who  himself  possesses  no  incon- 
siderable claims  to  eloquence,  speaks  of  the  execution 
of  the  work  in  nearly  a  similar  style.  But  its  doc- 
trines were  as  little  to  his  taste  as  to  that  of  the 
great  advocate  just  mentioned,  for  both  being  infected 
by  the  political  epidemic  of  the  day,  and  deluded  by 
the  prevailing  revolutionary  nomenclature  of  original 
rights— nature— perfectibility — a  jargon  dignified 
with  the  name  of  reason,  prostrated  their  intellect 

*  The  Rev.  Robert  Hall«  a  diwenting  minuter  of  Leicester-*- 
**  Apology  for  the  Freedom  of  the  Preas." 
VOL.  II.  I 


11  ♦  LIFE   OF   THE 

to  the  worship  of  this  wooden  idol  which  they 
would  feign  have  exalted  into  a  deity. 

^*  It  is  pretended  that  the  moment  we  quit  a  state 
of  nature,  as  we  have  given  up  the  controid  of  our 
own  actions  in  return  for  the  superior  advantages  q£ 
law  and  government,  we  can  never  appeal  agam  ta 
any  original  principles,  but  must  rest  content  witti 
the  advantages  that  are  secured  by  the  terms  of  the 
society. 

*'  These  are  the  views  which  distinguish  the 
political  writings  of  Mr.  Burke,  an  author  whose 
splendid  and  unequalled  powers  have  given  vogue 
and  fashion  to  certain  tenets,  which  from  any  other 
pen  would  have  appeared  abject  and  contemptible. 
In  the  field  of  reason  the  encounter  would  not  be 
difficult,*  but  who  can  withstand  the  fascination  and 
magic  of  his  eloquence?  The  excursicHis  of  his 
genius  are  immense  !  His  imperial  fancy  has  laid  all 
nature  under  tribute,  and  has  collected  riches  from 
every  scene  of  the  creation,  and  every  walk  of  art. 
His  eulogium  on.  the  Queen  of  France  is  a  master- 
piece of  pathetic  composition ;  so  select  are  its 
images,  so  fraught  with  tenderness,  and  so  ridi  with 
colours  ^^  dipt  in  heaven,"  that  he  who  can  read  it 
without  rapture  may  have  merit  as  a  reasoner,  but 
must  resign  aU  pretensions  to  taste  and  sensibility. 
His  imagination  is  in  truth  only  too  prolific:  a 
world  of  itself,  where  he  dwells  in  the  midst  of 

*  Easy  88  the  matter  seems  to  this  writer^  no  opponent  has  ven- 
tured into  this  "  field  of  reason/'  without  receiving  a  signal  over- 
throw ;  for  there  is  litde  or  nothing  in  Mr.  Burke's  doctrines  with 
which  a  constitutional  inqoker  of  steady  patriotism  and  modevate 
views  can  find  suhstantial  fault 


BIGHT   HON.   SDMUKD  BURKE.  115 


diiramcal  alaams,  is  the  dupe  of  hk  own  ^ttdumt^ 
meats,  and  starts  like  Prospero,  at  the  spectres  of 
his  own  creation.'^ 

Dr.  Beattie,  who,  as  far  as  opinions  went,  hed 
always  hitherto  heen  opposed  to  him  in  politics,  hut 
who  knew  the  soundness  of  his  prindj^  when  any 
real  danger  threatened  the  state,  thus  writes,  April 
25,  1790,  six  months  before  the  publication.-*-^^  I 
wish  Mr.  Burke  would  publish  what  he  intended  on 
the  present  state  of  France.  He  is  a  man  of  prin* 
dple,  and  a  friend  to  religion,  to  law,and  to  monarchy, 
as  well  as  to  liberty." 

One  of  the  suspected  authors  of  Junius's  Letters 
(Hugh  Boyd)  in  allusion  to  this  production  of  his 
old  acquaintance,  and  the  event  it  was  meant  to 
reprobate,  thus  writes  ^-— 

^  But  to  turn  to  the  more  pleasing  view,  where 
the  finest  talents  combat  on  the  side  of  truth.  We 
have  seen  their  triumph  in  the  noblest  cause ;  in  the 
cause  of  religion,  law,  and  order;  in  defence  of 
every  sacred  post  and  barrier,  essential  not  alone  to 
the  security  and  happiness  of  mankind,  but  to  the 
very  existence  of  society.  The  sublime  comprehen- 
sion of  that  penetrating  genius  (Bfr.  Burke)  whidi 
in  the  eariy  dawn  of  democracy  saw  the  destructive 
principle  of  general  conflagration  that  was  to  flame 
in  its  meridian,  gave  the  alarm  to  the  world ;  and 
Us  warning  voice  was  heard.  The  baleful  influence 
tlureatening  every  confine  of  humanity,  was  averted ; 
and  the  portentous  meteor  consumed  in  its  own 
fires,  passes  away  for  ever." 

On  the  other  hand,  this  book  was  reprobated  as 
assailing  the  very  foundations  of  liberty,  by  a  party 

IS 


116  LIFE  OF  THE 

bold»  numerous,  and  able,  at  the  head  of  whidi,  or 
at  least  countenancing  it,  stood  Mr.  Fox.  His  cen* 
sures  were  not  merely  unreserved,  but  deUvered,  as 
he  himself  avowed,  in  all  companies,  public  and  pri- 
vate, whenever  it  became  a  subject  of  discussion* 
Some  months  afterwards  he  termed  it  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  with  more  of  pique,  or  less  of  judg- 
ment, than  could  be  expected  from  such  a  man,  ^  a 
libel  on  all  free  governments,''  and,  '<  he  disliked  it 
as  much  as  any  of  Mr.  Paine's;"  remarks  not  very 
delicate  or  conciliatory  as  applied  to  the  production 
of  a  firiend,  and  the  latter  certainly  di8pla)dng  a 
peculiar  political  taste ;  but  both  almost  verifying  a 
remark  of  Burke  at  a  future  period,  that  **  the 
French  Revolution  had  not  merely  shaken  all  the 
thrones  of  Europe,  but  shaken  his  friend  Fox's 
heart  and  understanding  out  of  their  right  places." 
This  party  besides  embraced  many  other  Membais 
of  Opposition,  his  foUowers,  some  philosophers,  the 
great  body  of  second-rate  literary  men,  some  clergy- 
men, many  lawyers,  many  dissenting  ministers,  and 
nine-tenths  of  the  profession  of  physic — all  there- 
fore belonging  to  the  educated  classes,  but  the  great 
majority  without  claim  to  any  practical  acquaintance 
with  politics ;  men  deep  in  speculation,  and  in 
books,  but  wholly  ignorant  of  the  workings  of 
governments ;  who  knew  nothing  of  human  nature 
in  great  and  untried  emergencies,  such  as  the  state 
of  France  then  exhibited ;  who  mistook  warm  feel- 
ings and  prejudices  for  sound  principles  ;  some  who, 
with  good  intentions  toward  mankind,  would  have 
committed  the  grossest  errors  in  reducing  them  to 


RIGHT  HON«   EDMUND  BURKE.  117 

practice ;  and  many  wfaose  views  upon  the  constitu- 
tion  of  the  country  were  more  than  questionable. 

By  this  body  Mr.  Burke  and  his  Work  *  were 
assailed  with  a  degree  of  animosity  unprecedented 
in  the  political  warfare  even  of  England,  and  so 
perseveringly  continued  to  the  present  day  by  the 
diattered  remnants  of  the  same  order  of  politicians, 
that  among  the  half-read  classes  of  society  who 
seldom  like  the  labour  of  inquiring  or  thinking  for 
themselves,  there  is  a  kind  of  common  agreement  to 
oensure  his  conduct  and  doctrines  without  knowing 
what  they  really  were  or  to  what  they  tended.  No 
pains  indeed  were  spared  to  produce  this,  effect. 
Every  epithet  of  abuse  in  the  language  was  applied 
to  him ;  and  every  action,  or  expression  of  his  life, 
that  could  be  tortured  into  a  sinister  meaning,  was. 
raked  up  in  order  to  show  his  inconsistency,  yet 
after  all,  they  proved  so  few  and  frivolous,  that  they 
have  not  been  thought  worth  repeating ;  and  thus, 

*  A  celebrated  phrase^  contained  in  this  book,  was  bruited  about 
in  every  form  of  speech  and  writing,  in  order  to  excite  the  popular 
indignation.  In  speaking  of  the  destruction  of  the  nobility  and 
clergy,  he  said,  that  along  with  these,  its  natural  protectors,  learn- 
ing would  be  *'  trodden  down  under  the  hoofs  of  a  swinish  niul« 
titude."  The  expression,  though  plainly  figurative,  was  tortured 
to  mean  that  he  actually  thought  the  people  no  better  than  swine, 
yet  all  other  impassioned  writers  have  dealt  in  the  same  license  of 
language  without  reproach,  or  even  remark;  among  which  the 
reader  will  immediately  recollect  ''  the  common  dung  o'  the  soil," 
and  many  others  as  strong,  applied  to  the  mass  of  mankind.  Even 
Republican  Milton  uses  the  words  ''  herd  confused,"  "  miscella- 
neous rabble  '*  applied  to  the  multitude,  so  little  respect  was  there 
in  the  mind  of  that  sturdy  opponent  of  monarchy  for  the  ''  ma-- 
jcsty  of  the  people." 


118  ^  UFE   OF   THE 

he  **  whfMie  whole  life  had  been  a  strug^  for  the 
liberty  of  others,"  was  reviled  as  the  enemy  of  all 
liberty. 

The  truth  perhaps  was,  that  their  and  his  ideas 
of  liberty  were,  and  always  had  been,  different. 
They  chose  to  become  angry  because  a  man  so  loi^ 
and  so  generally  celebrated  as  its  advocate,  should 
hesitate  to  give  his  sanction  to  any  thing  which 
assumed  the  name,  however  questionable  might  be 
the  substance ;  they  made  no  allowances  for  havii^ 
mistaken  him,  or  for  his  not  agreeing  with  them  in 
the  detail ;  because  he  differed  in  opinion  with  them, 
it  was  inferred,  however  absurdly,  that  he  must  differ 
from  himself.  They  thought  that  liberty,  no  matter 
in  what  shape  and  garb  it  came,  or  how  accompanied^ 
or  by  whatever  qualities  or  characteristics  distin- 
guished, must  necessarily  be  good.  They  looked 
chiefly  to  the  abstract  idea  of  the  thing,  not  to  the 
form  it  assumed,  or  the  effects  it  produced. 

Mr.  Burke,  on  the  contrary,  would  not  allow  the 
term  liberty  to  be  applicable  to  a  sjrstem  whose 
course  was  stained  by  incessant  violence  .and  blood- 
shed ;  whidi  inflicted  or  permitted  the  most  grind* 
ing  tyramiy  and  injustice  on  persons  and  property ; 
which  was  in  itself  a  crude  and  untried  theory 
unsanctioned  by  reason  and  undisciplined  by  law ; 
at  variance  with  the  experience  of  mankind,  and 
with  the  ancient  and  reasonable  habits  and  insdtn- 
tions  of  the  country  itself.  The  liberty  decreed  by 
the  National  Assembly  he  considered  the  vilest  of 
mockeries.  Liberty,  no  matter  how  plausible  the 
form  or  high-sounding  its  pretensions,  was  in  his 
opinion  liberty  only,  when  it  secured  equal  civil 


BIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BUBKE.  119 

figlitej  e%ual  justice  and  protection^  equal  social 
enjojrmentB  and  privileges  to  all  members  of  the 
community. 

Sentim^its  similar  to  these  occur  so  frequently  in 
his  earlier  and  later  Works,  in  all  his  speeches  and 
writings  on  the  subject,  that  it  seems  strange  how 
fliey  could  ever  be  misunderstood.     The  passage 
already  quoted  from  his  speech  against  the  repeal  of 
the  Marriage  Act,*  in  1781,  speaks  this  language  so 
forcibly  and  explicitly  that  no  excuse  can  avail  for 
mistaking  or  misrepresenting  it.    Another  passage 
from  an  old  report  of  one  of  his  speechesat  Bristol, 
in  1774,  illustrates  similar  sentiments:  **  The  dis- 
tinguishing part  of  our  constitution  is  its  liberty. 
To  preserve  that  liberty  inviolate,  seems  the  par- 
ticular duty  and  proper  trust  of  a  Member  of  the 
House  of   Commons.     JBut  the  liberty,  the  only 
Uberiy  I  mean,  ie  a  liberty  connected  with  order ; 
that  not  only  exists  along  with  virtue  and  order,  but 
which  cannot  exist  without  themr    Addressing  the 
same  constituents  in  1780,  in  allusion  to  the  con- 
dition of  the  Roman  Catholics,  he  says,  ^*  /  must 
fairly  tell  you,  that  so  Jar  as  my  principles  are  con- 
cemed  (principles  that  I  hope  will  only  depart  with 
my  last  breath),  that  I  have  no  idea  ijf  a  liberty 
unconnected  with  honesty  and  justice ;  *  *  factions 
in  republics  have  been  and  are  full  as  capable  as 
monarchs  of  the  most  cruel  oppression  and  injustice ; 
it  is  but  too  true,  that  the  love  and  even  the  very 
idea  of  genuine  liberty  is  extremely  rarer — 

Any  one  professing  such  sentiments  as  these  could 

*  See  page  389,  vol.  i. 


120  LIFE  OF   THE 

not  in  fact,  to  preserve  his  consistency,  do  otherwise 
than  oppose  the  French  Revolution  as  Mr.  Burke 
opposed  it,  for  it  corresponded  with  none  of  his 
conceptions  of  genuine  fireedom.  We  have  seen  that 
he  had  his  doubts  of  its  nature  from  the  first,  and 
fer  from  blowing  hot  and  cold  upon  it  in  a  breath 
like  some  of  his  contemporaries,  gradually  rose  firom 
caution  to  apprehension,  from  apprehension  to  cer<* 
tainty,  that  such  proceedings  as  he  saw  going  on 
ODuld  be  productive  only  of  enormous  evils.  He  did 
not  hate  the  revolution  in  France  simply  because  it 
was  a  revolution,*  but  because  it  was  an  execrably 
bad  one  ;  or  rather  the  utter  dissolution,  at  a  blow, 
of  government,  religion,  and  morals, — all  the  ele- 
ments which  not  merely  bind  men  together,  but  have 
in  fact  from  the  condition  of  savages  made  us  men. 
He  did  not  war  against  liberty,  but  against  the 
abuses  committed  under  its  name ;  not  against  ft'ee- 
dom  but  against  licentiousness.  He  allowed  no 
inherent  power  in  the  half  or  the  majority  of  a  nation 
to  annihilate  the  persons,  the  property,  or  the 
honours  of  the  remainder,  at  their  will  and  pleasure, 
by  way  of  political  experiment  or  speculative  im- 
provement ;  ^  he  could  not  admit  the  right  of  any 

*  It  is  well  known  that  he  highly  approved  of  the  revolution  in 
Poland  going  on  about  the  same  time,  because,  instead  of  plmig- 
ing  their  country  into  anarchy,  the  leading  men  there  exerted  all 
their  talents  to  rescue  it  from  such  a  state  by  instituling  a  wise 
and  constitutional  form  of  government  Unhappily  it  proved  ill- 
timed.  Catherine  of  Russia  made  it  a  pretext  for  annihilating 
both  it  and  the  existence  of  the  country  as  an  independent  state  ; 
^nd  Buonaparte,  when  it  was  in  his  power,  had  not  generorit]^ 
eixough  to  reverse  the  iniquitous  proceedings 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  181 

people  to  do  what  they  pleased,  until  he  first  knew 
what  it  pleased  them  to  do.** 

It  is  a  remarkable  fact,  and  another  instance  of 
the  keenness  and  length  of  view  of  Mr.  Burke,  that 
though  the  danger  was  obvious  to  him,  neither  the 
government  nor  the  nation  at  large  had  any  idea  that 
French  opinions  and  principles  were  so  generally 
diffused  in  England,  or  that  they  had  made  so  many 
Gonv^is.  But  the  publication  of  his  book  disclosed 
the  extent  of  the  mischief  which  had  been  silently 
though  rapidly  spreading,  by  the  number  of  answers 
it  produced ;  the  writer  of  this  has  counted  no  less 
than  38  which  came  out  within  a  few  months,  and 
several  have  doubtless  escaped  his  notice,  while 
others  may  have  appeared  at  a  later  period;  but 
were  all  the  letters,  essays,  fragments,  and  invectives 
of  every  denomination  collected,  which  have  ap- 
peared then  and  since,  in  magazines,  reviews,  news- 
papers, annual  registers,  and  every  form  of  publica- 
tion, periodical  and  otherwise,  on  this  prolific  theme, 
they  would  amount  to  many  thousands. 

In  the  list  of  opponents  were  the  names  of 
Priestley,  Price  (who  dying  soon  after  the  appear- 
ance of  the  ''Reflections,"  which  his  sermon  had 
partly  provoked,  was  said  by  his  friends  to  have 
hurt  him  and  by  others  to  have  killed  him).  Earl 
Stanhope,  Mrs.  Wolstonecraft,  Mrs.  Macaulay^ 
Graham,  the  historian,  Mr.  (now  Sir  James)  Mack- 
intosh, and  Thomas  Paine.  Some  of  their  works 
have  voluntarily  sought  oUivion,  and  some  have 
been  reluctantly  forced  into  it.  The  **  Vindiciae 
Grallicae"  alone  was  the  production  of  a  more  sober 
inquirer,  a  scholar,  and  a  gentleman,  who  though  he 


laS  JLIFB   OF  THE 

then  wrote  upon  politics  witU  the  dim  and  flickering 
light  of  a  closet  philosopher,  has  since  learned  to 
judge  and  to  act  in  a  more  practical  spirit,  chiefly  bjr 
the 'teaching  of  that  very  master  whom  he  had  thua 
yentured  to  oppose,  and  whom  he  soon  afterwards 
characterized  as — ^^  A  writer  who  was  admired  by 
al)  mankind  for  his  eloquence,  but  who  is,  if 
possible,  still  more  admired  by  all  competent 
judges  for  his  philosophy ;  a  writer  of  whom  I  may 
justly  say,  that  he  was  gramssimus  et  deeendi  et 
intdUgendi  auctar  et  magister.^'  Even  from  the 
first,  however,  he  exhibited  the  confidence  in 
himself  of  one  who  could  afford  to  be  at  once 
bold  and  liberal  in  his  opposition  to  the  great  orator 
— *who  could  advocate  what  he  thought  freedom  to 
others  without  madly  assaulting  the  foundations  of 
our  own,  who  could  investigate  doctrines  without 
descending  to  personal  abuse  of  the  author,  who,  in 
endeavouring  to  refute  them  could  admit  his  worth, 
his  extraordinary  powers,  and,  in  spite  of  the 
clamour  to  the  contrary,  the  general  consistency  of 
his  life  and  principles.  Such  a  man  was,  and  still 
is.  Sir  James  Mackintosh,  a  statesman  of  the  first 
class,  who,  if  not  at  the  head  of  the  party  with  whom 
he  has  so  long  and  so  vainly  laboured,  is  certainly 
not  justled  from  it  by  any  thing  like  superiority  of 
mind  among  its  more  acknowledged  leaders. 

Of  a  very  different  description  was  **  The  Rights  of 
Man,"  by  Thomas  Paine.  This  remarkable  character, 
who  had  arrived  from  America  in  1787»  brought  with 
him  a  letter  of  introduction  to  Mr.  Burke  from  the 
Hon.  Henry  Laurens,  Ex-President  of  Congress, 
and  who  it  will  be  remembered  had  been  released 
from  the  Tower  in  1781,  by  the  exertions  of  the 


BIGHT  HON.  SDBCUND  BURKE.  12S 

fomier,  requesting  tihe  exertion  of  his  influence  to 
attract  public  notice  to  some  mechanical  contrivances 
of  Mr.  Paine,  particularly  the  model  of  an  iron 
bridge.  Mr.  Burke,  with  Us  accustomed  hospitality, 
invited  him  to  Beaconsfield,  took  him  during  a  sum- 
mer excursion  to  Yorkshire  to  several  iron-f ounderies 
there  in  order  to  gain  the  opinions  of  practical  men, 
and  introduced  him  to  several  persons  of  rank ;  to' 
Which  there  is  an  allusion  in  the  following  note  to 
Mr.  Wilkes  :— 

«  My  deab  Sib, 
*^  I  come  at  your  requisition  to  the  service  of  a 
cause  rendered  dearer  to  me  by  your  accession  to  it. 
Since  you  will  have  it  so  I  will  eat  venison  in  honour 
of  old  England;  let  me  know. at  Gerrard  Street 
when  and  where.  You  make  too  much  of  the  prattle 
of  the  world  and  the  effect  of  any  opinion  of  mine, 
whether  real  or  supposed.  The  libels  and  the 
pan^yrics  of  the  newspapers  can  neither  frighten 
nor  flatty  me  out  of  my  principles ;  but  (except  for 
the  evil  of  example)  it  is  no  matter  at  all  if  they  did. 
However,  since  you  think  my  appearance  something, 
you  shall  have  me  in  my  blue  and  buff;  we  all  in- 
deed long  very  much  to  see  you,  and  are  much  your 
humble  servants.  I  am  just  going  to  dine  with  the 
Duke  of  Portland,  in  company  with  the  great  Ame- 
rican Paine,  whom  I  take  with  me. 

"  Ever,  my  dear  Sir, 
<<  Your  most  affectionate  faithful  friend, 

"  Edmukd  Burke. 

<«  Beacoosfield,  August  18th^  1788." 
At  this  time,  Paine,  whom  it  is  doubtful  that  he 


184  UF£  OF  T9E 

knew  to  be  nn  Englishman,  professed  to  have  wholly 
relinquished  polities.  But  soon  afterwards  hairing 
visited  France  in  order  to  inspect  the  plans  and 
models  in  the  Public  Office  of  Bridges  and  Highways 
introduced  by  a  letter  from  Dr.  Franklin  to  the 
Duke  de  la  Rochefoucauld,  the  incipient  disorders 
gf  that  country  revived  in  his  mind  the  dormant 
spirit  of  turbulence  and  dissatisfaction  towards 
existing  institutions,  which  seemed  inherent  in  him;< 
he  returned  to  England  to  all  appearance  welU 
informed  of  the  designs  of  the  popular  leaders^  of 
which  many  intelligible  intimations  were  dropped  to 
Mr.  Burke,  with  a  recommendation  to  him  that  he 
should  endeavour  to  introduce  a  more  enlarged 
system  of  Uheriy  into  England,  using  Reform  in 
Parliament  as  the  most  obvious  means. 

This  hint,  thrown  out  probably  to  sound  him, 
was,  as  may  be  believed,  coldly  received.  **  Do 
you  really  imagine,  Mr.  Paine,  that  the  constitu- 
tion of  this  kingdom  requires  such  innovations,  or 
could  exist  with  them,  or  that  any  reflecting  man 
would  seriously  engage  in  them  ?  You  are  aware 
that  I  have  all  my  life  opposed  such  schemes  of  reform; 
of  course,  because  I  knew  them  npt  to  be  reform," 
Not  discouraged  by  this  rebuff,  Paine  continued  his 
correspondence  from  Paris  in  the  summer  of  17899 
and  there  is  no  doubt  whatever,  first  communicated 
to  his  distinguished  acquaintance  certain  information 
that  the  destruction  of  the  monarchy  was  resolved 
upon;  that  the  leaders  had  determined  to  set  fire 
to. the  four  comers  of  France  sooner  than  not  carry 
their  principles  into  practice;  and  that  no  danger 
was  to  be  apprehended  from  the  army,  for  it  was 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  125 

gained.  This  remarkable  note  is  said  by  a  friend 
of  Mr.  Bnrke's  to  be  dated  only  three  days  before 
the  destruction  of  the  Bastile. 

Though  his  intimacy  with  Mr.  Burke  had  some- 
/vdiat  declined  previously  to  the  appearance  of  the 
^*  Reflections,"  his  more  noxious  peculiarities  re- 
mained unknown,  the  leveller  and  the  deist  being 
shrouded  imder  the  guise  of  the  ingenious  mechanist. 
But  the  **  Ri^ts  of  Man,"  written  as  an  answer  to 
Mr.  Burke's  work,  exhibited  at  once  the  mental  de- 
formity of  the  man,  inimical  to  nearly  every  thing 
that  bore  the  stamp  of  authority,  or  of  time,  or  of 
opinion.  In  accordance  with  this  unhappy  and  mis- 
chievous disposition,  he  had  long  before  stifled  the 
best  feelings  of  our  nature  by  voluntary  dereliction 
of  the  marriage  ties  and  duties;  he  had  divested  him- 
self of  the  troublesome  restraints  of  religion;  he  had 
shaken  off  all  confined  notions  of  attachment  to  his 
coimtry.  Nothing  of  an  Englishman  remained  of 
him  but  the  name,  and  even  this  he  tried  to  extinguish 
by  becoming  successively  by  adoption  an  American 
and  a  Frenchman :  but  as  his  principles  were  a 
scandal  to  all,  so  all  perhaps  would  willingly  be 
rid  of  the  dishonour  attached  to  owning  such  a 
citizen. 

It  was  his  aim,  by  perverting  what  capacity  he 
possessed,  not  to  make  men  better  or  happier,  but  to 
be  discontented  with  what  they  were,  with  what 
they  knew,  or  with  what  they  already  enjoyed.  His 
systems,. both  in  religion  and  politics,  led  not  merely 
to  the  disorganization  of  states,  but  of  the  human 
mind  itself,  by  setting  it  adrift  on  the  waters  of 
*doubt  and  despair,,  without  a  resting-place,  or  land- 


186  LIFB  OF  THE. 


mark  for  its  guidance  in  this  world,  or  hope  in  the 
next.  To  a  stjrie  of  writing  and  reasoning  well 
adapted  to  impose  upon  ordinary  understandings,  he 
added  a  oool  temper  and  designing  head,  unfettered 
by  the  common  restraints  and  scruples  of  mankind. 
To  the  trades  of  stayoiaker,  schoolmaster,  and 
exciseman,  in  his  native  country,  he  had  added  what 
is  so  often  the  resort  of  desperate  men,  the  profession 
of  a  patriot  in  America.  He  had  proved  a  brute  to 
Us  wife,  a  cheat  to  his  trust,  a  traitor  to  his  countiy, 
a  reviler  of  his  God  and  of  his  King ;  and  having 
already  successfully  aided  and  abetted  rebelUoB 
abroad,  seemed  to  be  cut  out  for  the  presiding  genius 
of  a  revolution  at  home,  if  not  prematurely  taken 
off  by  the  hand  of  the  executioner.  But,  as  if  in 
his  own  person  to  warn  us  of  the  desolating  tea^ 
dency  of  his  doctrines,  he  completed  the  catalogue 
of  his  offences  by  adultery  witH  the  wife  of  his 
friend,  by  the  brutal  treatment  and  desertion  of  his 
victim,  by  inveterate  drunkenness,  and  abominable 
filth  of  person.  The  very  excess  of  his  moral 
degradation  almost  made  him  an  object  of  compas- 
sion.    His  life  was  evil,  and  his  end  miserable. 

The  book  was  diaracteristic  of  the  man.  Its  pur- 
pose was,  through  the  debasing  principle  of  envy 
which  is  after  all  the  main  principle  of  a  levdler,  to 
reduce  all  mankind  to  one  standard,  to  write  up  a 
sort  of  ctmfiuum  made  etuy^  by  addressing  the  baser 
to  war  against  the  better  passions  of.  our  nature  by 
polling  down  superior  statiim,  talents,  virtues,  and 
disdnetions  to  the  level  of  the  lowest  It  was  an 
ofea  dedaration  of  hostility  to  all  the  institutions 
which  we  in  England  had  been  accustomed  to  eon- 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  1ST 

sider  as  our  ornament  and  pride ;  not  a  reform  of 
the  real  or  imaginary  abuses  of  govemment»  but  a 
pretty  plain  recommendation  to  pull  it  down  alto- 
gether for  the  pleasure  of  building  afresh  on  the 
republican  model — good  perhaps  in  the  eyes  of  an 
American,  but  at  variance  with  the  habits^  the  feel- 
ings, the  opinions,  the  honest  convictions  and  pre- 
judices of  an  Englishman.  It  affords  an  illustration 
of  the  phrenzy  of  the  day,  that  this  production  was 
devoured  rather  than  read,  idolized  rather  than 
praised  by  that  strong  party,  many  of  them  of  rank 
and  influence,  who  intent  on  committing  a  species  of 
moral  suicide,  disseminated  it  in  cheap  editions 
through  the  country ;  thus  flinging  a  fire-brand  into 
every  cottage  to  burst  out  and  consume  themselves ; 
while  in  the  clubs  and  societies  of  cities  the  same 
insane  spirit  of  animosity,  under  cover  of  affected 
satisfaction,  was  shown  in  the  favourite  toast  con- 
stantly drunk— '^  thanks  to  Mr.  Burke  for  the  dis- 
cussion he  has  provoked,'^ — as  if  they  malignantly 
hoped  or  wished  the  world  to  believe,  that  he  had 
injured  those  vital  interests  of  the  state,  of  which  in 
fact  his  book  proved  the  salvation. 

It  may  not  be  unworthy  of  remark,  that  two 
others  of  his  literary  opponents  on  this  question,  Mr. 
Cihristie  and  Mr.  Bousefield,  w^re  among  the  nwn- 
ber  of  his  personal  acquaintance.  The  latter,  who 
proved  to  be  the  most  virulent,  had  h^eo,  reoom- 
mended  to  the  notice  of  Burke  by  some  of  his  firiend$ 
in  the  county  of  Cork,  of  which  that  person  was  a 
native,  and  had  in  consequence  participated  largety 
in  the  hospitalities  of  Beaponsfield,  as  well  as  some- 
thing in  the  friendship  of  its  owner.     T^e  only 


12B  LIF£  OF  THE 

return  he  made  was  by  venting  upon  him  nearly  all 
the  abuse  of  which  he  was  master.  Of  another  of 
his  republican  acquaintance  of  rather  more  celebrity 
than  these  persons^  he  gave  the  following  account, 
when  speaking  of  the  address  of  a  deputation  from 
the  constitutional  society  of  London,  formed  of  Joel 
Barlow  and  John  Frost,  to  the  National  Convention, 
with  a  message  expressing  a  hope  that  all  nations 
woidd  soon  foUow  their  example  in  effecting  a  similar 
revolution,  and  making  a  patriotic  present  of  a  thou^ 
sand  pairs  of  shoes  to  the  soldiers  of  liberty : — 

*^  The  extravagance  of  Anacharsis  Clootz  in  wish- 
ing to  embrace  China,  Quebec,  Bulam,  and  in  short 
all  the  world,  in  the  confraternity  of  France,  was 
not  peculiar  to  him,  but  was  also  entertained  by  all 
the  members  of  the  Assembly.  This  Clootz  was  an 
old  acquaintance  and  correspondent  of  his,  being 
very  respectably  introduced  to  him,  and  had  no 
small  share  in  producing  the  French  Revolution. 
He  was  a  Prussian  by  birth,  highly  conversant  in 
every  branch  of  literature,  and  much  better  qualified 
to  act  the  part  of  a  philosopher  than  John  Frost  as 
a  deputy  from  the  people  of  Great  Britain.  In  June 
1790  this  man  appeared  at  the  bar  of  the  National 
Assembly,  accompanied  by  men  of  all  nations, 
Asiatic,  African,  and  European,  of  which  latter  the 
English  made  no  inconsiderable  part.  There,  as 
orator  of  the  human  race,  he  invoked  for  them  all 
the  protection  and  confraternity  of  France;  and 
this  happened  on  the  very  day  when  the  Assembly 
demolicAied,  by  a  decree,  the  nobility  of  France." 

The  translator  of  the  **  Reflections "  (Mons. 
Dupont)  conceiving  that  the  character  given  in  that 


RIGHT  HO}^.   EDMUND  BURKE.  129 

work  of  Heiuy  IV.  of  France  was  somewhat  harsh» 
and  might  be  unpleasing  to  royalist  ears  in  that 
country,  requested  him  to  revise  and  soften  it,  and  in 
reply,  received  the  following  justification  of  what  he 
had  already  advanced;  which,  as  containing  his 
opinion  of  a  great  historical  character,  the  reader 
will  not  be  displeased  to  see  here,  particularly  as  he 
will  not  find  it  any  where  else.  The  passage  ob- 
jected to  runs  thus — 

"  Henry  of  Navarre  was  a  politic  and  active 
prince.  He  possessed  indeed  great  humanity  and 
mildness  ;  but  an  humanity  and  mildness  that  never 
stood  in  the  way  of  his  interests.  He  never  sought 
to  be  loved  without  first,  putting  himself  in  a  way  to 
be  feared.  He  used  soft  language  with  determined 
conduct.  He  asserted  and  maintained  his  humanity 
in  the  gross,  and  distributed  his  acts  of  concession 
only  in  the  detail.  He  spent  the  income  of  his  pre- 
rogative nobly,  but  he  took  care  not  to  break  in  upon 
the  capital ;  never  abandoning,  for  a  moment,  any 
of  the  claims  which  he  made  under  the  fundamental 
laws,  nor  sparing  to  shed  the  blood  of  those  who 
opposed  him,  often  in  the  field,  sometimes  upon  the 
scaffold." 

"  Sir, 
"  Yesterday  I  had  the  honour  of  receiving  your 
letter,  in  which  you  desire  that  I  may  revise  and 
soften  the  expressions  which  I  have  made  use  of  con- 
cerning Henry  IV.,  King  of  France.  I  am  not  at 
all  surprised  at  your  request,  for,  since  your  child- 
hood, you  have  heard  every  one  talk  of  the  pleasing 
manners  and  mild  temper  of  that  Prince.     Those 

VOL.  11.  K 


180  LIFE   OF   THE 

qualities  have  shaded,  and  almost  obliterated,  that 
vigilance  and  vigour  without  which  he  would  never 
have  either  merited  or  enjoyed  the  title  of  Great. 
The  intention  of  this  is  sdf-evident  The  name  oi 
Henry  IV.  recalls  the  idea  of  his  popularity ;  the 
sovereigns  of  France  are  proud  to  have  descended 
from  this  hero,  and  are  taught  to  look  up  to  him  as 
to  a  model.  It  is  under  the  shelter  of  his  venerable 
name  that  all  the  conspirators  against  the  laws, 
against  religion,  and  against  good  order,  have  dared 
to  persuade  their  King  that  he  ought  to  abandon  all 
the  precautions  of  power  to  the  designs  of  ambition. 
After  having  thus  disarmed,  they  have  resolved  to 
deliver  their  Sovereign,  his  nobility,  and  his  magis- 
trates (the  natural  supporters  of  his  throne),  into  the 
hands  of  thieves  and  of  assassins.  It  is  a  long  time 
since  this  plot  was  first  formed.  It  was  resolved  to 
put  it  into  execution  according  to  circumstances ; 
and  the  mode  adopted  of  every  where  suspending 
the  portraits  of  Henry  IV.  was  one  of  the  means 
employed  for  the  success  of  the  design — a  means 
truly  perfidious,  as  it  holds  out  snares  to  the  un- 
wary, and  catches  mankind  by  the  bait  of  their  own 
virtues. 

"  Every  time  that  this  politic  Prince  had  occasion 
to  deliver  one  of  his  insinuating  harangues  (which 
was  very  often),  he  took  particular  care  not  to  be 
too  literal  in  his  expressions.  It  was,  I  suppose,  to 
a  kind  of  assembly  of  notables  that  he  spoke  of  his 
design  to  free  himself  entirely  from  their  restraint. 
But  when  he  employed  these  courtly  threats,  of  which, 
by  the  bye,  he  was  very  liberal,  he  advanced  his 
right  foot,  and,  as  he  himself  says,  *  always  clapped 


RIGHT  HON.   tDMUND   BURKE*  181 

his  band  upon  the  hilt  of  his  s^rord.*  Those  men 
whose  power  is  envied,  and  against  whon  wolent 
fiEiedons  are  formed,  cannot  with  safety  be  good  in 
any  other  manna*.  Trajan,  Marcus  Aurelius,  and 
all  others  in  similar  situations,  who  have  dared  to  be 
virtuous,  could  never  have  enjoyed  this  arduous  and 
critical  pre-eminence  but  by  inviolably  pursuing  all 
the  means  in  their  power  of  attracting  respect,  and 
of  sustaining  their  authority.  Without  this,  they 
could  not  have  exercised  their  benevolence.  In  such 
a  situation  a  prince  may  with  safety,  and  with  as 
much  sagacity  as  glory,  divide  his  authority  with 
his  people,  because  then  he  has  the  power  to  divide 
it  at  his  discretion,  and  is  not  forced  to  abandon  it* 
'^  Whatever  may  be  the  honour  annexed  to  such  a 
voluntary  division,  whatever  may  be  the  political 
motive  that  can  induce  a  sovereign  to  make  such  a 
sacrifice  in  certain  cases,  Henry  IV.  neither  did  the 
one  nor  the  other ;  he  never,  in  any  manner  what-^ 
ever,  parted  with  an  atom  of  his  authority.  Did  he 
ever  leave  it  to  the  judgment  of  the  citizens 
to  determine  the  right  which  the  laws  of  die 
dom  gave  him,  of  being  their  King  and  their  Sove- 
reign ?  Bid  they  ever  enter  into  any  treaty  with 
him  concerning  his  title  to  the  throne  ?  Where  is 
there,  in  the  long  catalogue  of  the  unlimited  pre- 
rogatives of  the  King  of  France  (be  they  just  or 
unjust)  an  article  which  he  ever  abandoned,  limited, 
or  even  submitted  to  inquiry?  He  would  have 
been  still  more  illustrious,  if,  after  having  purchased 
and  conquered  his  kingdom,  he  had  done  this,  and  if 
he  had  become  the  founder  of  a  regular  constitution. 
Historical  facts  have  not  furnished  me  with  the  means 

K  2 


132  LIFE   OF   THE 

of  deciding,  in  a  proper  manner,  if  ever  he  found  him- 
self in  a  situation  to  acquire  this  glory»  or  if  he  then 
c6uld  have  made  any  attempts  of  that  kind,  with  a 
greater  d^ee  of  safety  than  has  been  done  on  a 
recent  occasion.  But  it  is  very  probable  that  he 
never  had  any  of  this  kind.  If  you  read  the  Me^ 
moirs  of  Sully  with  attention  (and  I  suppose  that  the 
opinions  of  the  Minister  differed  little  from  those  of 
his  master),  you  will  easily  perceive  that  they  were 
both  royalists  in  all  the  extent  of  the  expression, 
and,  with  some  few  exceptions,  they  constantly 
maintained  that  spedes  of  government. 
^*  As  to  the  blood  that  Henry  shed,  he  never  spilt 
one  drop  more  than  was  necessary  for  the  mainte- 
nance of  his  right,  which  he  on  no  occasion  would 
isubmit  to  any  species  of  popular  dedsion ;  he  how- 
ever could  kill  when  it  was  necessary.  How  many 
bloody  battles  did  he  not  fight  against  the  majority 
of  the  French  nation  ?  How  many  cities  did  he  not 
sack  and  pillage  ?  Was  his  Minister  ashamed  of 
sharing  the  booty  that  fell  into  his  hands  ?  It  is 
true,  that  while  closely  besieging  his  own  capital, 
he  relieved  and  protected  the  unfortunate  families 
who,  at  the  peril  of  their  lives,  sallied  forth  to  gather 
a  scanty  harvest  under  the  walls  of  this  very  capital. 
I  approve  thi&  conduct,  but  it  does  not  inspire  me 
with  an  enthusiastic  admiration.  He  would  have 
almost  been  a  monster  in  cruelty,  and  an  idiot  in 
politics,  had  he  done  otherwise.  But  while  he  was 
so  compassionate  to  a  few  wretches  dying  of  hunger, 
one  cannot  forget  that  it  was  he  himself  who 
famished  them  by  hundreds  and  by  thousands,  before 
he  was  in  a  situation  to  treat  thus  compassionately 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  133 

a  few  isolated  individuals.  It  is  true,  indeed,  that 
in  starving  Paris  he  did  nothing  but  what  was 
conformable  to  the  right  of  war ;  but  that  was  a 
right  which  he  enforced  in  all  its  plenitude.  He 
followed  the  dictates  of  his  heart  and  of  his  policy 
in  the  acts  of  compassion  attributed  to  him ;  as  to 
the  famine  which  he  occasioned,  it  was  in  conse- 
quence of  the  position  of  his  army.  ^  But  can  you 
support  the  panegyrists  of  Henry  IV.  in  regard  to 
this  very  siege  of  Paris,  when  you  recollect  the  late 
deplorable  scarcity,  and,  above  all,  what  has  been 
done  in  consequence  of  that  unhappy  epoch  ?  Of 
the  occurrences  that  followed  I  shall  not  speak  at 
present,  although  I  think  that  that  ought  to  be  done 
to  inspire  every  honest  heart  with  horror  and  indig- 
nation. 

**  As  to  the  *  scaffold,'  it  is  impossible  to  decide 
at  this  moment  whether  it  would  not  have  been  more 
prudent  for  Henry  IV.  to  have  saved  the  Marechal 
de  Biron,  instead  of  cutting  off  his  head  within  the 
walls  of  the  Bastile.  He  was  under  great  obliga^ 
tions  to  this  Marechal  of  France,  as  well  as  to  his 
father ;  but  Henry  was  less  remarkable  for  his  gra- 
titude than  his  clemency.  As  he  never  shed  blood 
but  for  just  reasons,  I  suppose  that  he  thought  him- 
self obliged  to  do  it  then,  on  account  of  the  good  of 
his  people  and  the  security  of  his  throne.  It  must 
be  allowed,  however,  that  if  he  had  pardoned  .this 
rash  and  impetuous  man,  he  would  never  have  been 
reproached  with  this  act  of  commiseration.  If  he 
imagined  that  the  Marechal  de  Biron  was  capable  of 
some  of  those  scenes  which  we  have  lately  seen 
exhibited  in  your  kingdom  ;  if  he  supposed  that  he 


134  L1F£  OF   THE 

might  produce  the  same  anarchy,  the  same  confusioiiy 
and  the  same  distress,*  as  the  same  preliminaries  to 
a  humiliating  and  vexatious  tyranny,  which  we  are 
on  the  point  of  beholding  in  France  under  the  name 
of  a  Constitution ;  it  was  right,  very  right,  to  cut, 
on  its  very  formation,  the  very  first  thread  of  so 
many  treasons ! 

**  He  would  never  have  merited  the  crown  that  he 
acquired,  and  which  he  wore  with  so  much  glory,  if, 
interposing  his  compassion  to  defeat  the  preservative 
effects  of  a  severe  execution,  he  had  scrupled  to 
pxmish  those  traitors  and  enemies  of  their  country, 
and  of  the  human  race ;  for,  believe  me,  there  can  be 
BO  virtue  where  there  is  no  wisdom.  Weakness 
<mly,  that  is  to  say,  the  parent  and  ally  of  crimes, 
would  have  allowed  itself  to  be  affected  by  misdeeds, 
which  have  a  connexion  with  power,  and  which  aim 
at  the  usurpation  of  a  certain  d^ree  of  authority. 
To  pardon  such  enemies,  is  to  do  the  same  thing  as 
those  who  attempt  the  destruction  of  religion,  of  the 
laws,  of  policy,  of  morality,  of  industry,  of  liberty, 
and  of  the  prosperity  of  your  country.  If  Henry 
IV.  had  such  isubjects  as  those  who  rule  France  at 
this  very  moment,  he  would  do  nothing  more  than 
his  duty  in  punishing  them.  The  present  Sovereign 
is  in  the  situation  of  a  victim,  and  not  the  avenger  of 
rebellion.  It  is  rather  a  hiisfortune  than  a  crime, 
that  he  has  not  prevented  this  revolution  with  that 
vigorous  precaution,  that  activity,  and  that  momen- 
tary decision,  which  characterized  Henry  IV.  Louis 
XVI.,  according  to  what  I  hear  and  believe,  has 
ireceived  from  nature"  as  perfect  an  understanding, 

*  An  alludun  to  the  conduct  of  the  Duke  of  Orleans. 


BIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  ISi 

and  a  heart  as  soft  and  humane,  as  his  illustrious 
ancestors.  These  are,  indeed,  the  elements  of  virtue ; 
but  he  was  bom  under  the  canopy  of  a  throne,  and 
was  not  prepared  by  adversity  for  a  situation,  the 
trials  of  which  the  most  perfect  and  the  most  abso- 
lute virtue  could  have  scarce  resisted. 

'^  As  to  the  men,  the  means,  the  pretexts,  the 
projects,  the  consequences  arising  from  false  plans 
and  false  calculations,  of  every  nature  and  every 
species,  which  have  reduced  this  Sovereign  to  appear 
in  no  better  light  than  an  instrument  for  the  ruin 
of  his  country — these  are  circumstances  to  be  re- 
corded and  commented  on  by  the  historian.-*-These 
remarks.  Sir,  have  been  occasioned  by  reading  your 
letter ;  you  may  print  them  as  an  appendix  to  your 
work,  or  in  whatever  manner  you  please ;  or  you 
may  keep  them  for  your  own  private  satisfaction. 
I  leave  it  entirely  to  your  discretion. 
«  I  am,  Sir, 

"  Your  very  humble  servant, 

"  Edmund  Burke. 

**  BeaocnufieUf,  January  2d,  1791-" 

A  reply  from  the  French  correspondent  to  whom 
the  *^  Reflections "  had  been  addressed,  dated  17th 
November,  1790,  gave  Mr.  Burke  an  opportunity 
of  following  up  his  blow  by  a  rejoinder  entitled 
**  Letter  to  a  Member  of  the  National  Assembly."  In 
this,  which  appeared  in  February,  I79I9  he  advances 
many  new  observations,  sets  others  in  stronger  lights, 
and  glances  at  the  characters  of  some  of  their 
writers  whose  principles  it  was  the  fashion  to  follow, 
as  being  no  better  than  what  he  on  another  occasion 
termed  '*  the  mere  jays  and  magpies  of  philosophy." 


1S6  LIFE   OF   THE 

Bosseau  he  sketches  in  strong  yet  not  undue  terms, 
when^considered  as  he  says  he  must  be,  either  **  as 
Br  moralist  or  as  nothing/' 

*•  We  have  had  the  great  professor  and  founder  of 
the  philosophy  of  vanity  in  England.*  As  I  had 
good  opportunities  of  knowing  his  proceedings 
almost  from  day  to  day,  he  left  no  doubt  on  my 
mind  that  he  entertained  no  principle  either  to  in- 
fluence his  heart  or  to  guide  his  understanding,  but 
vanity.  With  this  vice  he  was  possessed  to  a  degree 
little  short  of  madness.  It  is  from  the  same  de* 
ranged  eccentric  vanity  that  this,  the  insane  Socrates^ 
of  the  National  Assembly  was  impelled  to  publish 
a  mad  confession  of  his  mad  foults,  and  to  attempt  a 
new  sort  of  glory  from  bringing  hardily  to  light  the 
obscure  and  vulgar. vices  which  we  know  may  some- 
times be  blended  with  eminent  talents.  He  has 
not  observed  on  the  nature  of  vanity  who  does  not 
know  that  it  is  omnivorous ;  that  it  has  no  choice 
in  its  food ;  that  it  is  fond  to  t&lk  even  of  its  own 
faults  and  vices  as  what  will  excite  surprise  and 
draw  attention,  and  what  will  pass  at  worst  for 
openness  and  candour. 

^^  It  was  this  abuse  and  perversion  which  vanity 
makes  even  of  h}rpocrisy,  which  has  diiven  Rosseau 

*  In  1766,  when  he  came^  on  the  invitation  of  Hume,  and 
behaved  to  him  in  a  manner  so  extraordinary  as  to  be  inexplicable 
in  any  other  way  than  to  suppose  him  to  be  whoUy  possessed  by 
what  may  be  termed  the  insanity  of  vanity.  Mr.  Burke  was  then 
in  frequent  communication  with  Hume,  from  the  connexion  of  the 
latter  with  Lord  Hertford,  who,  with  his  brother,  General  Con- 
way, supported  and  indeed  formed  part  of  the  Rockingham  admi- 
nistration, and  from  the  philosopher  himself^  he  personally  heard 
the  proceedings  of  his  extraordinary  guest. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BUBKE.  1S7 

to  record  a  life,  not  so  much  as  chequered  or  spotted 
here  and  there  with  vhtues,  or  even  distinguished 
by  a  single  good  action.  It  is  such  a  life  he  chooses 
to  offer  to  the  attention  of  miuikind.  It  is  such  a 
life  that,  with  a  wild  defiance,  he  flings  in  liie  face  of 
his  Creator,  whom  he  acknowledges  only  to  brave. 
Your  Assembly  knowing  how  much  more  powerful 
example  is  found  than  precept,  has  chosen  this  man 
(by  his  own  account,  without  a  single  virtue)  for  a 
model.  To  him  they  erect  thdr  first  statue.  From 
him  they  commence  their  series  of  honours  and  dis* 
tinctions." 

He  asserts  in  this  letter  from  almost  positive 
knowledge  that  the  excesses  of  the  revolution  were 
not  accidental,  as  some  believed,  or  pretended  to 
believe,  but  were  systematically  designed  from  the 
beginning,  even  previous  to  the  meeting  of  the 
8tates*general.  He  hints  likewise  at  the  necessity 
for  that  coalition  of  the  sovereigns  of  Europe  against 
France,  which  first  actually  took  place  a  few  months 
afterward  {  and  explicitly  states  the  intention  of  the 
prevailing  faction  to  put  the  King  to  death  whenever 
his  name  should  become  no  longer  necessary  to  their 
designs. 

The  declaration  by  the  French  Embassador,  at 
this  period,  of  his  Sovereign's  acceptance  of  the  new 
constitution,  drew  from  Mr.  Burke  a  paper  privately 
presented  to  the  Ministry,  *•  Hints  for  a  Memorial 
to  M.  De  Montmorin." — It  recommended  the  offer 
of  British  mediation  between  that  Monarch  and  his 
subjects  on  the  basis  of  a  free  constitution,  to  be 
guaranteed,  if  required,  by  England  ;  and  in  case  of 
refusal  by  the  popular  party,  to  intimate  the  design 


138  LIFE  OF  THE 

of  withdrawing  our  Minister  firom  a  Court  where 
the  Sovereign  no  longer  enjoyed  personal  liberty  or 
pcditical  consideration.  General  opinion  since  has 
been  in  &Tour.of  the  policy  of  the  advice. 

In  the  mean  time  several  threatening  indica- 
tioiKB  proclaimed  an  approaching  breach  of  the 
most  appalling  kind  in  the  Whig  party,  very 
few  of  whom,  or  indeed  scarcely  one  except  three 
or  four  of  his  personal  friends,  could  be  persuaded 
by  Mr.  Burke  of  the  irretrievable  mischiefe  at 
work  in  France,  and  likely  to  approach  our  own 
shores.  Mr.  Fox  expressed  his  approval  of  the 
prindples,  thou^  not  of  the  proceedings  there, 
twice  or  thrice  in  no  measured  terms ;  once,  April 
15  th,  in-  a  debate  on  the  Russian  armament,  when 
Mr.  Burke  rising  to  reply,  was  overpowered  by  con- 
tinued cries  of  question  £rom  his  own  side  of  the 
House,  and  by  the  late  hour  (three  o'clock)  in  the 
morning ;  and  again  on  a  Bill  providing  a  con- 
stitution for  Canada,  April  8th,  when  ^Burke  was 
not  present.  On  this  occasion  Mr.  Fox  directed 
pointed  censure  against  some  of  the  chief  doctrines 
in  Mr.  Burke's  late  publications,  directly  questioning 
the  utility  of  hereditary  power  or  honours,  or  of 
titles  of  rank,  and  concluding  with  a  sneer  at  ^*  rib- 
bons red  and  blue."  These  opinions  might  have 
been  honest,  though  perhaps  neither  very  sound  nor 
in  the  very  best  taste ;  they  were  unquestionably 
imprudent;  they  were  verbatim  the  revolutionary 
cant  of  the  day,  to  which  sanction  was  thus  given 
by  a  man  of  no  ordinary  weight  and  influence  in  the 
country ;  and  they  could  not  well  be  considered 
otherwise  than  as  a  direct  challenge  to  discussion  on 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  189 

a  most  irritable  theme^  addressed  indirectly  by  bim 
to  his  old  associate.* 

As  such  Mr.  Burke  evidently  considered  it,  when, 
on  the  6th  of  May,  on  the  same  bill,  he  rose  to  state 
his  sentiments  in  reply.  But  in  adverting  to  the 
French  Constitution  by  name,  and  the  unhappy 
scenes  to  which  it  had  given  rise,  he  was  loudly 
called  to  order  from  the  Opposition  benches.  Mr. 
Fox,  who  had  himself  made  allusions  as  strong  by 
implication  and  by  name  to  the  same  measure,  unex- 
pectedly assailed  him  by  an  ironical  defence,  recom- 
mending to  the  House  in  effect  to  let  him  say  what 
he  pleased.  Mr.  Burke,  after  noticing  this  drcum- 
stance,  resumed  his  argument,  and  again  experienced 
successively  seven  other  formal  interruptions  at 
short  intervals,  accompanied  by  speeches  to  order 
from  different  members  of  his  own  party,  while  at 
the  same  moment,  others  on  the  opposite  or  minis- 
terial side  maintaining  he  was  perfectly  in  order, 
this  contention  presenting,  amid  contending  shouts 
of  Chair !  chair !  Hear  !  hear !  Order !  order !  Go 
on !  go  on !  a  scene  which  Mr.  Burke  remarked  at 
the  moment  was  only  to  be  paralleled  in  the  political 
meetings  of  a  neighbouring  country  of  which  he  was 
endeavouring  to  convey  some  idea  to  the  House. 

At  length,  an  express  vote  of  censure  for  noticing 
the  affairs  of  France  was  moved  against  him  by 
Lord  Sheffield,  and  seconded  by  Mr.  Fox ;  Mr.  Pitt, 
on  the  contrary,  who  had  repeatedly  cheered  the 
speech,  leaned  to  his  views,  urged  that  he  was  in 

^  Mr.  Sheridan  had  also  about  the  same  time  reiterated  the  same 
ojHnions. 


140  LIFE   OF   THE 

order,  that  he  was-grateful  to  the  right  hon.  gentle- 
man for  the  manly  struggle  made  by  him  against 
French  principles,  that  his  views  should  receive  his 
support  whenever  the  danger  approached,  and  that 
his  zeal  and  eloquence  in  such  a  cause  entitled  him 
to  the  warmest  gratitude  of  all  his  fellow  subjects^ 
Mr.  Fox  followed  in  a  vehement  address,  alternately 
rebuking  and  complimenting  Mr.  Burke,  in  a  high 
strain,  and  while  vindicating  his  own  opinions, 
questioning  the  truth  and  consistency  of  those  of  his 
right  hon.  friend  who  he  must  ever  esteem  his  masttt 
but  who  nevertheless  seemed  to  have  forgotten  the 
lessons  he  had  taught  him ;  and  in  support  of  the 
charge  of  inconsistency  thus  advanced,  he  quoted 
several  sarcastic  and  ludicrous  remarks  of  little 
moment  at  any  time  and  scarcely  worth  repeating 
then,  but  which,  as  they  had  been  expressed  14  and 
16  years  before,  seemed  to  have  been  raked  up  pur- 
posely for  the  occasion. 

There  was  an  appearance  of  premeditation  and 
want  of  generosity  in  this,  which  hurt  Mr.  Burke, 
as  he  afterwards  expressed  to  a  friend,  more  than 
any  public  occurrence  of  his  life,  and  he  rose  to  reply 
imder  the  influence  of  very  painful  but  very  strong 
feelings.  He  complained,  after  debating  the  main 
question,  of  being  treated  with  harshness  and  malig- 
nity for  which  the  motive  seemed  unaccountable — of 
being  personally  attacked  from  a  quarter  where  he 
least  expected  it  after  an  intimacy  of  more  than  22 
years, — of  his  public  sentiments  and  writings  being 
garbled,  and  his  confidential  communications  violated, 
to  give  colour  to  an  unjust  charge  ;  and  that,  though 
at  his  time  of  life  it  was  obviously  indiscreet  to  pro- 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  141 

yoke  enemies  or  to  lose  friends,  as  he  could  not  hope 
for  the  opportunities  necessary  to  acquire  others,  yet 
if  his  steady  adherence  to  the  British  constitution 
placed  him  in  such  a  dilemma,  he  would  risk  all,  and 
as  public  duty  and  public  prudence  taught  him,  with 
his  last  breath  exclaim  ^^  Fly  from  the  French  con-> 
stitution ! "  Mr.  Fox  here  whispered^  '^  there  is  no 
loss  of  friendship."  **  I  regret  to  say,  there  is,"  was 
the  reply — "  I  know  the  value  of  my  line  of  con- 
duct ;  I  have,  indeed,  made  a  great  sacrifice ;  I  have 
done  my  duty  though  I  have  lost  my  friend ;  there 
is  something  in  the  detested  French  constitution  that 
envenoms  every  thing  it  touches;"  and,  after  a 
variety  pf  comments  on  the  question,  previous  and 
subsequent  to  this  avowal,  concluded  with  an  elo- 
quent apostrophe  to  the  two  great  heads  of  their 
respective  parties,  steadfastly  to  guard  against  inno- 
vation and  new  theories,  whatever  might  be  their 
other  differences,  the  sacred  edifice  of  the  British 
constitution. 

Unusually  agitated  by  this  public  and  pointed 
renunciation  of  long  intimacy,  Mr.  Fox  rose  evi- 
dently^ much  affected,  and  at  length  found  relief  in 
tears. — Some  moments  elapsed  before  he  had  reco- 
vered sufficiently  to  proceed  in  his  address,  when, 
besides  touching  on  the  bill  and  on  French  affairs^ 
an  eloquent  appeal  burst  forth  to  his  old  and  revered 
friendr— to  the  remembrance  of  their  past  attach- 
ment— ^their  unalienable  friendship — ^their  reciprocal 
affection,  as  dear  and  almost  as  binding  as  the  ties 
of  nature  between  father  and  son.  Seldom  had 
there  been  heard  in  the  House  of  Commons  an 
appeal  so  pathetic  and  so  pergonal.     Yet  even  at  this 


148  LIFE   OF  THE 

moment  when  he  was  seemingly  dissolv?^  in  tender- 
ness, the  pertinacity  of  the  professed  and  thorough- 
bred disputant  prevailed  over  the  feelings  of  the 
man ;  he  gave  utterance  to  unusually  bitter  sar- 
casmS)  reiterated  his  objectionable  remarks,  adding 
others  not  of  the  most  conciliatory  tendency,  and  of 
course  rather  aggravating  than  extenuating  the 
original  offence.  Rejoinders  on  both  sides  followed, 
without  subsiding  into  more  amicable  sentiments, 
and  thenceforward  the  intimacy  of  these  illustrious 
men  ceased. 

Such  are,  in  brief,  the  facts  connected  with  this 
memorable  dispute,  which  excited  more  general 
interest,  and  produced  more  important  results,  than 
any  thing  similar  in  our  political  annals.  Opposition 
instantly  saw  in  it  the  loss  of  much  of  that  con- 
sequence they  had  hitherto  enjoyed  as  a  body  in  the 
State,  and  though  at  first  thunderstruck  at  the  con- 
sequences, soon  proceeded  to  utter  the  harshest 
animadversions  upon  Mr.  Burke,  both  at  the  break- 
ing up  of  the  House,  as  well  as  on  all  occasions 
afterwards  during  his  life,  and  cmitinued  by  writers 
of  the  same  political  partialities  even  to  this  day, 
not  one  of  whom,  however,  but  misrepresents  the 
circumstances  of  the  quarrel,  or  attributes  it,  on  the 
part  of  that  gentleman,  either  to  a  preconcerted 
scheme  to  quit  them,  or  to  splenetic  ilUhumour  at 
not  being  permitted  to  dictate  the  line  of  conduct  of 
the  body  of  which  he  was  a  member. 

These  assertions  are  now  known  to  be  whoUy 
false.  If  design  can  be  attributed  to  either  party,  it 
would  seem  assuredly  to  have  rested  rather  with 
Mr.  Fox  and  his  friends  than  with  Mr.  Burke,  for 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BUBKE.  14S 

though  they  probably  did  not  desire  an  open  rupture 
with  him,  they  went  the  precise  way  to  work  in 
order  to  effect  it ;  for  there  is  not  a  stronger  instance 
in  Parliamentary  history  than  this^  of  what  may  be 
termed  a  dead  *et*  being  made  upon  a  Member  to 
prevent  him  from  delivering  his  sentiments  on  an 
extraordinary  and  questionable  event  upon  the  trifling 
pretext  of  being  out  of  order.  Admitting  him  for 
argument  sake  to  have  been  out  of  order,  which  was 
not  the  case  as  the  House  decided,  was  it  the  busi- 
ness of  his  friends  to  attack  him  upon  that  head  ? — 
of  the  men,  with  whom  he  had  been  so  long  associated, 
whose  career  he  had  often  directed,  whose  battles  he 
had  fought,  whose  credit  he  had  been  the  first  to  raise 
in  public  esteem — ^to  assail  him  with  vehement  dis- 
approbation, persevering  interruptions,  and  votes  of 
censure  ?  All  that  he  asked  for,  or  expected  at  the 
moment,  was  the  liberty  of  expressing  his  sen-* 
timents — and  this  they  in  effect  told  him  he  should 
not  be  permitted  to  have  uiK)n  that  particular  sub- 
ject. The  natural  inference  was,  that  it  was  too 
precious  in  their  esteem  to  be  suffered  to  be  exposed 
to  the  Sirocco  of  his  eloquence,  lest  it  should  be 
incurably  scorched,  or  wholly  destroyed  by  the 
blast.  There  was  something  in  this  of  political 
ingratitude,  and  obviously  no  small  portion  of  folly 
and  indiscretion,  for  it  impressed  a  general  belief  in 
the  country  that  the  minority,  instead  of  viewing 
the  French  question  as  a  matter  of  indifference,  or 

^  Barke  himself  wittily  obflerved  at  a  subsequent  time,  that  the 
topic  of  France,  though  open  to  every  one  else,  was  by  the  oppo- 
ntion  iahoded,  to  him — ^by  what  rite  of  authority,  or  superstition, 
he  could  not  di\4ne. 


144  LIFE   OF   THE 

even  as  one  of  calm  inquiry  and  deliberation,  had  at 
once  and  so  heartily  adopted  its  spkit,  as  to  proceed 
to  the  last  extremities  with  one  of  the  heads  of 
their  body,  sooner  than  hear  him  treat  it  with  repro- 
bation. 

There  are  a  variety  of  other  reasons  which  tell 
strongly  in  favour  of  Mr.  Burke.  Far  from  being 
the  first  to  broach  the  topic  as  a  provocative  to 
quarrel,  he  had,  on  the  contrary,  studiously  avoided 
it  in  this  and  the  preceding  sessions,  until  introduced 
by  the  very  persons  who  now  professed  to  wish  to 
avoid  the  subject.  It  was  obviously  his  interest  not 
to  disagree  with  those  with  whom  he  had  been  so 
long  connected,  and  more  especially  at  this  moment, 
when  it  was  believed,  in  consequence  of  words  which 
fell  from  the  King  on  the  dispute  with  Russia,  that 
they  were  likely  to  come  into  power.*  He  had 
already  explicitly  declared  his  intention  to  separate 
from  the  dearest  friends  he  possessed,  who  should 
give  countenance  to  the  revolutionary  doctrines  then 
afloat,  and  the  breach  with  Mr.  Sheridan  proved  that 
this  was  no  idle  threat.  He  doubtless  felt  displeased 
that  his  general  principles  should  be,  if  not  misre- 
presented, at  least  so  far  misapplied,  as  to  become 
the  means  of  charging  him  with  dereliction  of  prin- 
ciple. He  might  be  angry  that  this  should  be  done 
by  one  who  had  so  long  been  his  friend,  and  who 
made  it  his  chief  boast  even  at  the  moment  of  con- 
test that  he  was  his  disciple.     He  could  not  be  well 

*  Mr.  Fox  had  himself  communicated  to  Burke  a  few  dayv 
before  a  speech  made  by  the  King  at  the  levee  to  the  effect^  that 
if  the  government  could  not  be  properly  conducted  by  Mr.  Pitt  it 
might  be  done  by  others^  for  he  was  not  wedded  to  him. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  145 

pleased  that  this  disciple  should  condemn  his  book 
without  ceremony,  as  an  attack  on  all  free  govern- 
ments. He  could  not  be  highly  conciliated  by  that 
friend  withdrawing  from  him,  as  had  been  the  case 
for  several  preceding  years,  much  of  that  public 
confidence  which  he  had  hitherto  reposed  in  him  ;  for 
as  little  similarity  existed  in  their  private  pursuits, 
they  were  political  friends  or  they  were  nothing ; 
and  the  withholding  of  confidence  on  such  subjects 
became,  in  fact,  a  tacit  dissolution  of  the  compact  by 
which  they  were  united. 

But  in  addition  to  these  considerations,  there 
were  in  the  cause  of  disunion,  circumstances  which 
rendered  it  quite  impossible  they  could  continue  on 
the  same  terms  as  before.  The  dispute  was  not 
about  a  private  or  trivial,  but  a  great  constitutional 
matter  which  superseded  aU  minor  considerations, — 
not  a  hackneyed  or  speculative  topic  on  which  they 
might  amicably  differ  and  pass  on  to  the  considera- 
tion of  others  on  which  they  agreed,  but  one  in  its 
consequences  involving  the  very  existence  of  the 
state.  It  was  a  question  wholly  new ;  it  was  one 
which  agitated  almost  every  man  in  the  kingdom ; 
it  was  constantly  and  progressively  before  the  eyes 
of  Parliament ;  it  met  the  leaders  at  every  turn  in 
debate,  and  in  some  form  or  another  mingled  in 
every  discussion  of  fact  or  principle.  It  was  in 
itself  fiill  of  difficulties,  of  jagged  points  and  sharp 
angles,  against  which  neither  of  them  could  rub 
without  feeling  some  degree  of  irritation ;  and  it 
was  one  on  which  from  the  first  each  seemed  to  have 
staked  his  whole  reputation  for  political  wisdom 
against  the  other ;  Mr.  Fox  with  all  the  enthusiasm 

VOL.  II.  L 


146  i,iFfi  OF  th£ 

of  a  geapierousy  confiding,  and  unwary  man;  Mr. 
BurkQ  'with  the  penetration  of  a  profound  philoso- 
pher and  the  celculating  sagacity  of  a  practical 
statesman.  In  support  of  their  opinions  both  were 
quite  as  yehement  as  the  case  required;  the  one 
pushing  on,  or  being  pushed  by,  Opposition,  to 
apologiase  for  the  misdeeds  of  the  French  Revolu* 
tion ;  the  other  outstripping  the  van  of  the  Ministry 
in  their  bitter  reprobation. 

Constant  contention  such  as  this  promised  to  be^ 
^*  hand  to  hand  and  foot  to  foot,"  as  Mr.  Burke 
expressed  his  determination  to  contend,  could  lead, 
especially  with  an  old  associate,  only  to  coldness ;  and 
from  coldness  to  alienation,  from  alienation  to  dislike, 
the  steps  are  few,  and  quick,  and  certain.  A  breach^ 
therefore,  sooner  or  later  appeared  to  be  inevitable. 
Whether  it  ought  not  to  have  taken  place  by  d^ees 
and  with  less  of  publicity,  is  merely  matter  of  opi- 
nion and  at  best  is  of  little  consequence.  An  open 
and  decisive  expression  of  his  mind  (to  a  fault)  had 
hitherto  characterized  Mr.  Burke  upon  all  occasions^ 
and  he  probably  thought  the  same  mode  of  conduct 
now  more  honourable  in  itself,  and  more  calculated 
to  impress  upon  the  country  a  sense  of  the  mag- 
nitude of  its  danger,  and  the  sincerity  of  his  con- 
viction that  the  danger  waa  near. 

From  the  moment  indeed  that  Mr.  Fox  pronounced 
such  decided  panegjrica  upon  the  French  Ccmatitu- 
tion,  «nd  pwticularly  on  the  1^  of  April,  when 
Mr.  Burke,  aa  already  noticed,  was  prevented  from 
replying  to  it  by  the  clamour  of  hia  own  party,  a 
rupture  between  them .  distinctly  appeared  at  hand. 
The  former  long'aftearwards  used  to  regret  the  inter- 


. » 


RIGHT   HON.  SDMUNQ   BURKE.  147 

ruption  the  latter  had  then  reeeiTed,  B^jing  that 
though  the  conflict  between  them  migMs  have  been 
hottar  and  fiercer  at  the  moment,  it  wo«k}d  probably 
have  left  no  unpleasant  feelings  behind.  In  fact,  the 
vtry  next  morning  after  this  unhandsome  conduct  n 
general  alarm  at  the  consequences  of  it  spread 
through  the  party.  Several  conciliatory  expjanationa 
were  offered  to  Mr.  Burke,  and  some  apdogies, 
while  many  who  agreed  in  Mr.  Fox's  opinions  did 
not  hesitate  to  condemn  him  for  imprudence  in 
expressing  them,  though  it  is  equally  true  that  he 
had  been  urged  to  the  measure  by  those  very  persons, 
and  for  not  having  already  done  so,  two  or  three  oi 
the  number  had  been  tempted  to  say  he  was  deficient 
infimmess. 

On  the  other  hand  some  of  Mr.  Burke'^  personal 
friends  and  the  connexioBS  of  the  Duke  of  Portland, 
though  tiiey  thought  nearly  as  he  did  of  the  pro- 
ceedings in  France,  wished  him  nevertheless  to  pass 
over  the  opinions  and  the  challenges  of  Mr.  Fox  and 
Mr.  Sheridan  in  silence.  This  he  urged  was  impos-« 
sible.  He  was  willing  to  forget,  he  said,  the  total 
want  of  consideration  and  respect  shown  to  himsdf 
CNQi  several  recent  occasions,  and  the  pretty  plain 
abuse  directed  against  his  writings,  yet  in  addition 
to  thifise,  without  any  overt  act  of  his  to  cause  sucb 
a  proeeedii^,  he. had  been  thrice  within  a  week 
pointedly  dared  to  the  discussion,  and  standing  aa 
he  did,  pledged  to  the  House  and  to  the  country 
upon  the  subject  in  a  manner  whidh  no  other  Mem- 
ber was,  it  would  look  like  political  cowardice  in  him 
to  shrink  from  the  contest.  Besides,  h/e  thought 
Mr.  Fox^s  opinions  of  great  weight  in  the  country, 

l2 


148  LIFE   OF  THE 

and  should  not  be  pennitted  to  circulate  through  it 
uncontradicted.  He  was  further  impelled,  he  added, 
by  an  imperious  sense  of  public  duty,  which  he  con- 
sidered paramount  to  all  other  considerations.  These 
reasons,  however,  were  deemed  scarcely  sufficient  by 
his  Mends,  though  this  did  not  relax  his  deter- 
mination. 

In  the  mean  time  he  was  informed  that  the 
adherents  of  Mr.  Fox  had  determined  to  interrupt 
him  on  any  allusions  to  French  affairs,  by  urging 
the  point  of  order ;  and  that  gentleman  him- 
self, in  company  with  a  friend,  waited  upon  him 
to  request  that  the  discussion  might  be  postponed  till 
another  opportunity,  which  Mr.  Burke,  in  answer, 
pointed  out  was  not  likely  to  occur  again  during  any 
other  business  of  the  Session.  To  convince  Mr. 
Fox,  however,  that  nothing  personal  or  offensive 
would  proceed  from  him,  he  stated  explicitly  what 
he  meant  to  say,  mentioning  the  heads  of  his  argu- 
ments and  the  limitations  he  designed  to  impose  on 
himself;  an  instance  of  candour  which  Mr.  Fox 
returned  by  relating  the  favourable  expressions  of 
himself  just  alluded  to,  recently  uttered  by  the 
King.  The  interview,  therefore,  though  not  quite 
satisfactory,  excited  no  hostile  feelings ;  on  the  con- 
trary, they  walked  down  to  the  House  together,  and 
together  entered  it,  but  found  that  Mr.  Sheridan  had 
moved  to  postpone  the  re-commitment  of  the  bill 
until  after  the  Easter  holidays. 

As  a  proof,  however,  of  the  spirit  which  actuated 
the  late  associates  of  Burke,  one  of  them,*  as  if 
fated  to  fan  afresh  the  now  almost  extinguished 

•  Mr.  M.  A.  Taylor. 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND   BURKE.  149 

flame  of  dissension,  on  this  very  evening  took  occa* 
sion  to  observe  that  the  affair  of  the  Quebec 
Government  had  been  improperly  treated,  by  in- 
volving the  consideration  of  the  general  principles 
of  government  and  the  constitutions  of  other  coim- 
tries;  on  which  occasion  insinuations  had  been 
thrown  out  against  the  opinions  of  some  of  the 
gentlemen  with  whom  he  acted.  If,  therefore,  he 
found  the  minister,  or  any  other  right  honourable 
gentleman,  wander  from  the  strict  discussion  of  the 
matter,  he  should  call  him  to  order  and  take  the 
sense  of  the  House  upon  it.  The  allusion  to  Mr. 
Burke  was  palpable,  and  so  he  considered  it,  but 
nevertheless  did  not  rise  to  reply. 

Mr.  Fox,  with  more  candour  and  consideration, 
admitted,  that,  in  forming  a  government  for  a  colony, 
some  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  general  prin- 
ciples of  all  governments ;  and  he  himself  had 
during  this  session  alluded,  perhaps  too  often,  to  the 
French  Revolution;  he  had  also  spoken  much  on 
the  government  of  the  American  States,  because 
they  were  in  the  vicinity  of  Canada;  but  on  the 
Quebec  bill  he  had  only  uttered  one  silly  levity,*  not 
worth  recollection,  relative  to  the  French  Revo- 
lution; he  meant  an  allusion  to  the  extinction  of 
nobility  in  France,  and  its  revival  in  Canada.  He 
wad  not  in  the  habit  of  concealing  his  opinions ; 
neither  did  he  retract  any  which  he  had  heretofore 
advanced  on  this  subject ;  aud  when  the  Quebec  bill 
came  again  to  be  discussed,  though,  from  the  respect 

*  This  was^  that  '*  nobility  stunk  in  the  nostrils  of  the  people  of 
America/'  and  much  more  to  that  effect.  The  phrase  itself  was 
not  original^  but  had  been  used  by  Burke  many  years  before  in 
allusion  to  a  former  unpopular  House  of  Commons. 


150  LIF£  OP   Tttfi 


he  entertained  for  some  of  his  friends,  he  should  be 
soity  to  differ  from  them,  yet  he  MMtdd  deliver  his 
opinions  fearlessly.  Mr.  Powys  remarked,  in  return, 
that  the  debate  had  lumed  irregularly  both  on 
retrospect  and  antidpatton,  and  hinted  that  Mt^.  Fox 
sh<MQd  have  followed  die  example  of  Mr.  Burke,  in 
writing,  rather  than  in  speaking  tiiere,  of  the  Fraieh 
Revolution. 

Mr.  Burke,  in  a  very  affecti^  manner,  assured  the 
House  that  nothing  depressed  him  more — nothing 
had  ever  more  affected  him  in  body  and  mind — ^than 
the  thought  of  meeting  his  friend  as  a&  adversary 
and  antagonist  After  noticing  the  anticipation  just 
suggested,  and  the  observations  acoompan3ring  it,  he 
dedared  his  sentiments,  that  in  framing  a  new  con- 
stitution, it  became  necessary  to  refer  to  prindples  of 
government  and  examples  of  other  constitutions, 
because  a  material  part  of  every  political  question 
was  to  see  to  what  extent  obtain  prindples  bad  been 
adopted,  and  how  they  had  sueoeeded  in  other 
places.  Hs3  opinions  on  government  he  'presumed 
not  to  be  unknown,  as  gentlemen  had  latdy  become 
ibnd  of  quoting  him  in  that  House ;  and  the  more 
he  considered  the  French  Constitution,  the  more 
sorry  he  was  to  see  it  viewed  with  any  degree 
of  favour.  Once  in  the  preceding  session  he  had 
thought  himself  under  the  necessity  of  speaking 
V^  folly  upon  the  subject ;  but  since  that  time 
he  had  newr  mentioned  it  either  direetlff  «r 
indirect ;  no  man^  tikere/bref  could  charge  him 
with  having  provoked  the  conversation  that  had 
passed.  He  should,  however,  give  his  opinion  on 
particular  prindples  of  government  in  the  future 
progress   of  the  Quebec  bill.     He  acquitted   with 


EIOHT   HON.  KDMUNB  BURKE.  151 

tftaeh  candour  his  right  ho&oiirabte  Mend  of  any 
personal  offoioe  to  himself  in  the  intemiption  he 
had  lately  experienced  (April  15),  in  attempting  to 
answer  his  recent  panegyric  on .  France ;  and  he 
finished  by  saying,  that,  should  he  and  his  friend 
differ,  he  desired  it  to  be  recollected,  that  however 
dear  he  considered  his  friendship,  there  was  some- 
thing still  dearer  in  his  mind-^the  love  of  his  coun*- 
try ;  neither  was  he  stimulated  to  the  part  he  should 
take  by  any  connexion  with  people  in  office ;  for 
whatever  they  knew  of  his  political  sentiments,  they 
had  learned  from  him,  not  he  from  them. 

Such  was  the  precursor  of  the  day  of  quarrel. 
Mr.  Fox  we  see  had  given  the  challenge,  and  yet 
was  dissatisfied  that  it  should  be  accepted ;  while  his 
Irienda,  jMroceeding  a  point  further,  boldly  declared 
their  determination  to  interrupt  any  one  who  should 
advert  to  it.  Mr.  Burke's  observations  in  reply  are, 
as  we  see,  expressed  in  th6  most  conciliatory  spirit, 
though  film ;  and  the  threat  used,  made  it  more 
imperative  upon  him  to  resolve  not  to  be  bullied 
into  silemte.  During  the  interval  between  this  and 
the  6th  of  May,  tiie  same  determination  oi  calling 
him  to  order  wasjrepeatedly  hinted  in  the  opposition 
newspapers^  and  their  abuse  of  him  otherwise  indi- 
cated something  of  premeditated  hostility. 

That  the  behaviour  of  this  body  to  him  in  the 
whole  of  the  business  was  unfair,  hostile,  and  im- 
prudent, if  not  meriting  harsher  names,  has  been 
gwerally  agreed.  That  of  Mr.  Fox  it  is  also  difficult 
to  explain.  In  treating  of  a  new  constitution  for 
a  colony  which  embraced  English,  and  French, 
and  American  interests,  it  was  perfectly  in  order  for 
he  himself  to  advert  to,  and  to  contrast,  (heir  re- 


15S  LIFE   OF   TH£ 

spective  eooetitutioiis  with  that  of  the  one  proposed; 
but  it  seemed  strange  that  the  same  privilege  should 
be  denied  to  another  member,  of  at  least  equal  talents» 
and  of  the  same  party^  because  he  drew  a  different 
conclusion.  Why,  it  was  pertinently  asked,  should 
Mr*  Fox  and  Mr.  Sheridan  have  free  license  to  extol 
the  French  revolution  or  constitution,  when  speak- 
ing upon  the  Quebec  or  any  other  bill,  while  to  Mr. 
Burke,  and  Mr.  Burke  alone,  the  topic  of  France 
should  be  wholly  forbidden  ?  It  formed  also  matter 
for  surprise  that  the  former  gentleman  should  pro- 
fess such  warm  admiration  of  the  French  revolution^ 
when  confessedly  not  one  beneficial  result  had  arisen 
from  it  to  that  country,  or  seemed  likely  to  arise 
either  to  it  or  to  any  other.  If  this  admiration  were 
sincere,  what  are  we  to  conclude  of  his  political 
wisdom  and  prudence  ?  If  it  were  not,  the  infer- 
ence is  equally  against  his  political  honesty.  It  is 
no  more  than  justice  to.  him  to  state,  however,  that 
what  he  panegyrised  in  the  gross,  he  condemned 
almost  uniformly  in  the  detail,  and  much  more  in 
private  conversation  than  he  coidd  be  brought  to 
express  in  parliamentary  debate.  It  is  on  record, 
likewise,  that  though  on  two  occasions  he  applauded 
by  name,  and  in  the  hearing  of  the  whole  House, 
the  new  French  Constitution^  as  ^*  the  most  stupend- 
ous and  glorious  edifice  of  liberty  which  had  been 
erected  on  the  foundation  of  human  integrity  in  any 
time  or  country,"  he  afterwards,  when  pushed  by 
Mr.  Burke,  explained  away  his  meaning  by  saying 
that  it  applied  to  the  Revolution, — ^not  to  the  Con- 
stitution. His  sentiments  seemed,  in  fact,  more 
than  once  doubtful  and  wavering  as  to  the  line  of 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BUBKIU  158 

conduct  it  was  most  proper  for  hini  to  pursue ;  it 
has  been  always  believed  that  he  was  urs^d  on  by 
simster  influent,  and  an  innate  passion  for  popu. 
larity,  to  take  that  side  which  he  did ;  and  that, 
having  irrecoverably  lost  Mr.  Burke  by  going  too  far^ 
he  was  obliged  to  go  further  in  order  to  retisdn  Mr. 
Sheridan,  who,  it  is  said,  exacted  an  explicit  de- 
claration of  his  opinions  on  this  head  as  the  price  of 
his  continued  exertions  in  Parliament.  It  has  been 
asserted,  and  even  by  some  of  the  Members  who 
continued  to  adhere  to  him — ^that  he  would  ulti* 
mately  have  been  brought  over  to  Burke's  views,  had 
not  the  precipitate  separation  of  the  latter  affected 
his  pride  too  keenly ;  for  that  after  the  publicity  of 
the  quarrel,  if  he  shoidd  relinquish  his  opinions, 
even  if  wrong,  in  order  to  effect  a  reconciliation,  it 
would  look  so  much  like  weakness,  as  probably  to 
lose  him  the  lead  in  his  party,  if  not  in  the  public 
esteem.  It  is  likewise  pretty  certain  that  Burke 
himself  expected  to  have  made  a  convert  of  him, 
even  after  that  dissension.  Yet  to  a  distant  observer 
these  sanguine  conclusions  were  not  at  all  probable. 
Mr.  Fox  perfectly  knew,  and  the  idea  haunted  his 
mind,  that  by  joining  administration  he  must  be- 
come  a  secondary  personage  to  Mr.  Pitt,  who  could 
not  be  expected  voluntarily  to  surrender  a  full  half 
of  that  power  which  he  enjoyed  as  a  whole ;  while, 
on  the  other  hand,  by  not  accepting  of  office,  but 
merely  showing  himself  in  Parliament  to  re-echo  the 
voice  of  Ministry,  or  by  seceding  altogether  from 
business,  he  equally  ran  the  hazard  of  losing  some- 
thing  of  his  public  importance.  There  was  the 
further  consideration  whether  even,  if  admitted  to 


154  LIFE  OF  THE 

an  eqilalitjr  of  power,  it  was  probaUe  h6  and  Mr. 
Pitt  shonM  agree  in  their  general  measures.  A  cal- 
<mlation  of  these  chances,  and  perhaps  a  real  belief, 
hoWeter  emmeous,  that  he  was  serving  the  cande  <rf 
liberty  by  remaining  at  the  head  of  Opposition, 
determined  him  to  ke^  his  station.  Far  be  it  from 
tile  wish  of  the  present  writer  to  ''  lean  upon  the 
memory  of  a  great  man;"  but  bare  justice  to  another 
equally  great,  and,  in  some  respects,  greater,  re- 
quires that  truth  should  be  opposed  to  that  multi- 
plied, tmwearied,  and  still-continued  abuse  and  mis- 
representation applied  to  him  in  consequ^ice  of  this 
schisin.* 

An  anecdote  of  this  memorable  evening,  related 
by  a  Memb^  who  had  adopted  Mr.  Fox's  opinions, 
Ifvinoes,  contrary  to  the  inference  he  draws,  that 
Mr.  Burke,  instead  of  displaying  the  calmness  of  one 
who  had  come  down  td  the  House  prepared  for  a 
rupture,  felt  all  the  irritation  which  unpremeditated 
quarrels  always  produce,  and  the  harsh  reception  he 
had  experienced  was  so  much  calculated  to  excite. 

**  The  most  powerful  feelings,^'  says  Mr.  Curwen,f 
*<  were  manifested  on  the  adjournment  <rf  the  House. 
Whilst  I '  was  waiting  for  my  carriage  Mr.  Burke 
came  up  to  me  and  requested,  as  the  night  was  wet, 
I  would  set  him  down-^I  could  not  reftise — ^though 
I  confess  I  felt  a  reluctance  in  complying.  As  soon 
as  the  carriage-door  was  shut,  he  complimented  me 


^  For  a  more  detailed  ftoonmt  of  it,  and  of  the  dzcunutaiioes 
by  which  it  was  preceded  aad  aooompanied  (the  only  full  and 
fair  one  indeed  which  exists),  see  Dodsley's  Annual  Register 

for  1791. 

t  Travels  in  Ireland^  vol.  ii. 


RIGHT  HON.   l!tDMUHD   BUKKE.  ISS 

on  my  hdng  no  friend  to  the  revolutionary  dMtrinei^ 
of  the  French,  on  which  he  spolce  wUh  great  warmth 
for  a  few  minutes,  when  he  paused  to  afford  me  an 
opportunity  of  approving  the  view  he  had  taken  of 
those  measures  in  the  House.  Former  experience 
had  taught  me  the  consequences  of  differing  from  his 
<^nions,  yet  at  the  moment  I  could  not  help  feeling 
disinclined  to  disguise  my  sentiments^  Mr.  Burke, 
catdiing  hold  of  the  check-string,  furiously  exclaimed^ 
*  You  are  one  of  these  people !  set  me  down  !'  With 
some  difficulty  I  restrained  him;-'^we  had  then 
reached  Charing  Cross — a  silence  ensued,  whid^  was 
preserved  till  we  reached  his  house  in  Gerrard  Street, 
whei  he  hurried  out  of  the  csOriage  without  Speak- 
ing, and  thus  our  intercourse  ended.** 

It  is  to  the  credit  of  Mr»  Buj^ke,  however,  thM 
when  his  own  personal  and  political  interests  were 
at  stake,  he  displayed  nothing  of  this  spirit  of 
irritation,  as  the  following  anecdote,  recorded  by 
the  same  gentl^oaan,  testifies,  and  it  is  only  one 
among  many  others : — *^  On  the  first  question  of  the 
Regency  I  differed  from  Mr.  Fox :  when  the  division 
was  proceeding,  Mr.  Burke  espied  me  remaining  in 
my  seat ;  he  turned  about,  and  r^atedly  called  on 
me,  but  ts  I  obeyed  not  the  summons,  a  laugh  at 
his  expense  ensued  $  though*  he  was  evidently  dis- 
pleased, I  must  do  him  the  justice  to  say  he  did  not 
resent  it." 

The  House  having  adjourned  till  the  11th,  Mr. 
Fox  again  explained  away  his  opinions  against 
aristocracy,  which  Mr.  Pitt  rather  sarca8(6cally  said, 
he  was  glad  to  hear,  for  he  and  every  one  else  had 
formed  a  different  estimate  of  his  meaning,  from 


156  LIFE  OF  THE 

what  had  fallen  from  him  the  evening  they  had  last 
assembled.  Mr.  Burke  spoke  at  length  on  the  ques- 
tion, and  on  the  situation  in  which  he  stood  with 
his  party.  Mr.  Fox  again  assailed  him  with  some 
censures  and  personalities,  at  the  same  time  saying, 
that  if  he  wished  to  return  to  his  party,  it  would 
receive  him,  respect  him,  and  love  him  as  heretofore. 
Of  this  censure  and  invitation  Mr.  Burke,  in  a  re- 
joinder, took  scarcely  any  notice,  neither  did  he 
utter  a  syllable  of  recrimination ;  so  that  in  the 
whole  of  this  affair  the  loss  of  temper  would  seem 
to  have  been  quite  as  great  in  the  former  gentleman 
as  in  the  latter. 

It  was  not  one  of  the  least  remarkable  events  of 
the  period,  that  the  very  next  measure  which  occu- 
pied the  House  of  Commons  was  one  brought  for- 
ward by  Mr.  Fox,  which,  though  daily  in  the  habit 
of  dropping  hints  upon  inconsistency,  seemed  calcu- 
lated to  render  his  own  more  particularly  marked, 
as  in  the  late  quarrel  he  had  expressly  alluded  to 
difference  of  opinion  with  Mr.  Burke  on  this  very 
point — ^to  whom,  in  fact,  the  present  undertaking 
was  a  strong  though  unavowed  acknowledgment  of 
the  superiority  of  his  views  at  an  early  period  of 
his  political  life,  on  a  great  constitutional  matter. 
This  measure  was  the  bill  for  empowering  juries  to 
try  the  questions  both  of  law  and  fact  in  prosecu- 
tions for  libel. 

It  has  been  already  noticed,  that  a  bill  for  this 
purpose  was  introduced  by  Mr.  Dowdeswell,  in 
January  I77I9  in  consequence  of  the  discussions 
which  arose  from  the  verdict  of  the  Jury  in  Almon's 
trial  for  publishing  Jimius's  Letter  to  the  King. 
This  bill,  Mr.  Burke,  as  the  moving  spirit  of  his 


RIGHT    HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  167 

party,  not  only  suggested  but  drew  up  with  his  own 
hand,  and  supported  in  the  House  by  an  able  speech. 
Ministry  however  resisted  it,  and  among  others  Mr. 
Fox  pointedly.  Lord  Shelbume  and  his  friends 
gave  it  a  hollow  support ;  Mr.  George  Grenville  and 
his  party  scouted  it,  and  Mr.  Home  Tooke  attacked 
it  anonymously  in  the  newspapers,  though  all  these 
persons  formed  sections  of  Opposition — so  much 
were  the  judgment  and  constitutional  knowledge  of 
Mr.  Burke  even  then  in  advance  of  those  of  his 
ablest  contemporaries.  This  ungracious  reception 
probably  prevented  him  from  renewing  it.  Mr.  Fox, 
at  the  present  moment,  seized  upon  the  question  as 
a  useful  prop  to  his  falling  popularity,,  and  though 
it  is  an  understood  rule  for  one  Member  of  Parlia- 
ment,  before  he  seizes  upon  the  proposition  of  an- 
other, to  co^nmunicate  with  him  on  the  subject,  Mr. 
Fox  did  not  think  this  compliment  necessary  although 
no  breach  had  then  (February)  taken  place  between 
them :  he  said  nothing  to  Mr.  Burke,  made  no 
apology,  acknowledged  no  obligation,  but  adopted 
the  spirit  and  substance,  and,  as  nearly  as  possible, 
the  words  of  the  bill  of  1771,  as  his  own  exclusive 
property.^    It  is  difficult  to  suppose  he  did  not  know 

*  For  the  information  of  the  reader  the  chief  heads  of  each 
are  subjoined. 


Jury  Bill  of  1771. 
I.  Whereas  doubts  and  con- 
tiovemes  have  arisen  concern- 
ing the  rights  of  Jurors  to  try 
the  whole  matter  charged  in 
indictments,  and  informations 
for  seditious  and  other  libels; 
for  settling  and  deaiinff  the 
same  in  time  to  come,  be  it  en- 
aeted,  itc  that  from  and  af ter> 
&C.J  ibe  jurors  who  shall  be  duly 


Jury  Bill  of  1791. 
I.  Whereas  doubts  have 
arisen,  whether  on  the  trial  of 
an  indictment  or  information 
for  the  making  or  publishing 
any  libel,  where  an  issue 
or  issues  are  joined  between 
the  King  and  the  defendant  or 
defendants,  on  the  plea  of  not 
guilty  pleaded,  it  be  competent 
to  the  jury  impanelled  to  try 


158 


LIFB   OF  THE 


wbo  the  real  author  was»  though  this  may  b^  poa-r 
siUe ;  but  the  bill  itself,  from  having  opposed  it*  aud 
groan  his  late  referenee  to  it»  he  could  not  well  hare 
forgotten.  Whatever  merit,  therefore,  be  in  ihl9 
celebrated  measure,  aitd  there  is  unquestionably 
much,  the  larger  {proportion  of  it,  beytmd  all  doubt, 
belongs  to  Mr.  Burke. 

His  labours  at  the  oommeneement  of  this  trouUed 
session  had  been  equally  arduous,  though  less  pexs. 
sonally  agitating  than  those  which  occurred  towards 
Its  close.  An  important  constitutional  question  was 
mooted,  whether  the  impeachment  had  not  abated 
by  the  dissolution  of  Parliament  in  1790?  He 
maintained,  with  great  vigour  and  ability,  that  it 
did  not ;  Mr.  Fox,  Mr.  Pitt,  Mr.  Dundas,  Mr.  Ad- 


impanelled  and  sworn  to  try  the 
issue  between  the  King  and  the 
defendant^  \xpaB.  any  indictment 
or  information  for  a  seditious 
libel,  or  a  libel  under  any  other 
denomination  or  desQription> 
shall,  to  all  intents  and  pur- 
poses, be  held  and  reputed,  in 
law  and  in  right,  competent  to 
try  eVery  part  of  the  matter  laid 
or  chargea  in  the  said  indict- 
ment or  information,  compre- 
hending the  criminal  intention 
of  the  defendant,  and  evil  ten- 
dency ci  the  libel  charged,  as 
well  as  the  mere  fact  of  the 
publication  thereof;  and  the 
application  by  inueado  of  blanks, 
initial  letters,  pictures,  and  other 
derices,  any  law  or  usage  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding. 

II.  Provided  that  noUiing  in 
the  act  be  construed  to  prevent 
or  restrain  the  judges  or  justices 
before  whom  such  iawes  shall 
be  tried,  from  instructing  the 
jurors  cmcfiming  the  law  upon 


the  same>  to  give  their  verdict 
upon  the  whole  matter  in  issue  ; 
be  it  therefore  declared  and  en* 
acted,  &c  &c,  that  on  every 
such  trial,  the  jury  sworn  to  try 
the  issue  may  ^ve  a  genexik 
verdict  of  guilty  or  not  guilty 
upon  the  whole  matter  put  in 
issue  upcm  such  indictneot  or 
informatioD,  and  shall  not  be 
required  or  directed  by  the 
Court  or  Judge  before  -wbam 
such  indictment  or  information 
shall  be  tried,  to  find  the  defend- 
ant or  defendants  ffuilty,  merely 
on  the  proof  of  the  publicatioa 
by  such  defendant  or  defend- 
ants, of  the  paper  charged  to  be 
aUbel,  and  <k die  sense  ascribed 
to  the  same  on  such  indietineiit 
or  infbnnation. 

Ih  Provided  alwajrst,  that  oa 
every  such  trial  the  court  er 
judgQ  before  whom  such  indict- 
ment er  iofovmation  shall  be 
tried»  shall,  aecocding  to  fehor 
or  UiB  diflopetioii,  give  tkdr  or 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMVXD  BURKK. 


Wft 


diHgtonthe  Speaker^  Mr.  Adam,  and  the  chief  talest 
of  both  Houses,  supporting  the  same  views.  Nearly 
all  the  lawyers,  however,  were  of  an  opposite  opl^ 
nion,  and  among  them  Mr.  Erskine,  who  laboured 
hard  to  support  this  imconstitutional  doctrine.  This 
cireumstance  drew  from  the  chief  manager  many 
sarcastic  remarks,  especially  after  Mr.  Erskine,  who 
had  been  professionally  retained  in  a  cause  on  the 
other  side,  and  who  of  course  was  not  free  from  bias 
on  the  question,  had  remarked  that  they  were  not 
€it  heme  in  that  House,  when  Mr.  Burke  said,  he 
believed  they  were  not ;  ^  they  were  birds  of  a  dif- 


die  natter  loinusoe^aB  fully  as 
may  be  done  in  other  misde- 
meanors, where  the  jurors  do 
and  ought  to  try  the  whole  mat* 
ter ;  nor  to  restrain  the  jurors 
from  finding  the  matter  special, 
if  the  law  to  them  shall  seem 
difficult  and  doubtful 

III.  Provided  also,  that  no- 
thing herein  contained  shall  be 
oonstrued  to  take  from  the  de- 
fendant, afler  verdict  found,  the 
li^t  of  la3ring  such  evidence 
before  the  Court  in  whiph  <>uch 
verdict  was  found,  as  may  tend 
to  mitigation  er  extenuation  of 
his  said  offence,  as  has  been 
usually  practised  before  this  act. 


his  ofmuon  of  directiona  to  the 
jury  on  the  matter  in  issue  be^ 
tween  the  King  and  the  defend- 
ant or  defendants^  in  like  man- 
ner as  in  other  criminal  cases. 


III.  Provided  also,  that  no- 
thing herein  contained  shall  ex- 
tend, or  be  construed  to  extend, 
to  prevent  the  jury  from  finding 
a  special  verdict  in  their  discre- 
tion, as  in  other  criminal  cases. 


IV.  Provided  also,  that  in 
case  the  jury  shall  find  the  de- 
fendant or  defendants  guilty,  it 
shall  and  may  be  lawfiu  for  the 
said  defendant  or  defendants  to 
move  in  arrest  of  judgment  on 
such  ground  and  in  such  man- 
ner as  by  law  he  or  they  might 
have  done  before  the  passing  of 
this  act,  any  thing  herein  con- 
tained to  thie  oontraiy  notvith^ 
standing. 


160  LIFE   OF*  THE 

ferent  feather,  and  only  perched  in  that  House  on 
their  flight  to  another — only  resting  their  tender 
pinions  there  for  a  while,  yet  ever  fluttering  to  be 
gone  to  the  region  of  coronets ;  like  the  Hibernian 
in  the  ship,  they  cared  not  how  soon  she  foundered, 
because  they  were  only  passengers — their  best  bower 
anchor  was  always  cast  in  the  House  of  Lords.**  In 
another  sentence  he  expressed  a  wish  **  to  see  the 
country  governed  by  law,  but  not  by  lawyers."  On 
the  14th  of  February,  when  Mr.  Erskine,  who  had 
already  sustained  many  of  his  biting  sarcasms,  com- 
plained of  the  length  of  the  trial,  Mr.  Burke,  after 
an  able  defence  of  the  managers,  upon  whom  certainly 
no  blame  rested  in  the  opinions  both  of  Ministry  and 
Opposition,  asked  **  whether  the  learned  gentleman 
remembered,  that  if  the  trial  had  continued  three 
years,  the  oppressions  had  continued  for  20  years  ? 
whether,  after  all,  there  were  hour-glasses  for  mea- 
suring the  grievances  of  mankind  ?  or  whether  those 
whose  ideas  never  travelled  beyond  a  nmprius  cause» 
were  better  calculated  to  ascertain  what  ought  to 
be  the  length  of  an  impeachment,  than  a  rabbit  who 
breeds  six  times  in  a  year  had  to  judge  of  the  time 
proper  for  the  gestation  of  an  elephant  ?  "  Mr.  Fox 
was  equally  severe  in  his  strictures  upon  the  legal 
profession. 

The  other  chief  public  measures  in  which  Mr. 
Burke  took  part  were,  by  an  eloquent  speech,  se- 
conded by  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr.  Pitt,  in  support  of  Mr. 
Mitford's  bill,  granting  indulgence  to  protesting 
Roman  Catholic  Dissenters,  or  those  who  denied  the 
Pope's  supremacy  in  temporal  matters  ;  on  the  slave 
trade ;  on  the  Russian  armament ;  and  a  very  elo- 


RIGHT   H<nr.   BDMUKD   BURKE.  1^ 

^uent  one  (Majr  ISQx)  on  Mr.  Gfef^  niotioii  fof  a 
commttee  to  hiqmire  mtoflfaeeffeet^of  imptiamkiAtAt 
for  dabi-^-a  praciiee  to  whiofa  llid  humaM  pr^n- 
sitiea  Were  at  afi  times  keenly  aUTe }  ao4  t%fe  legi»- 
latiue  of  tke  present  day  by  passing  the  Insolvent 
Act  seeiflB  to  hs&re  adopted  the  spferit  of  his  ideas. 

'*  They  had,  he  said,  not  only  their  prisons  falh 
bttt  they  kad  a  commonwealth  of  debtors^  a  coMM)o¥f- 
weaUb  of  prison^s }  a  commonwealth  as  naitterous 
as  fiaany  tiiat  had  existed  in  ancient  history.     T%ese 
prisoners^  mi^ere  not  diatiBguisfaed  from  ^Tes,  but 
actually  were  slaves,  existmg'  in  a  ebunttry  valuing 
itaelf  ^uk  its  laws^  and  boasting  of  ita  freedom,  bat  in 
whaeb  they  CTidiH*ed  a  greater  portion  of  slaver}^ 
thm  aver  had  been  exercised  1^  the  most  deSpMie 
yaweas.     It  certainly  was  m  Uemish'  in  our  h.w  Avi% 
it  produoed  idl  die  effeets  ci  thb  moat  abject  slavery. 
It  waa  a  paradox  strange  ilid  xrretondleabte.    Ond 
thing  he  willed  to  suggest^  wbidi  waa,  that  it  was 
not  to  be  held  that  this  business  was  in  all  cases  eoi^ 
neeted  with  dommerce;     The  eontraeting  of  d^btid 
often  hi^peaed  amm^  the  lower  classes  (tf  men  in 
tbs  common  transaetfonif  of  life$  and  werd  deemed 
civil  sui6i  founded  on  fidse  credit.    Commei^  wa» 
too  eautious  to  act  upon  such  a  folladous  prindple^ ; 
in  eases^  of  eotnmeree  the  cr<edltor  only  wished  tO' 
secure  the  ee89»  bcn&rum.    Not  only  tlie  tradings 
part  of  the  comnnnouty,  therrfbire,  but  every  man  ih 
the  Idsgdom  was  deeply  interested  in  the  in^juiry.*' 

In  the  early  part  of  the  summer  tee  piiid  a  visit  to 
Margate,  for  the  benefit  of  the  waitt  salt-water 
baths  for  Mrs.  Burke»  whence  an  anecdote  is  i^lated 
indicative  of  his  strict  sense  of  propriety  in  the  per* 

VOL.    II.  M 


Itt8  LIFE   OF   THB     . 

formance  of  religious,  duties.  At  church,  one  day; 
he  was  unexpectedly  saluted  with  a  political  sermoD, 
which,  though  complimentary  to  his  own  views  of 
public  affairs,  was  so  little  suited  in  his  opinion  to 
the  place,  that  he  displayed  unequivocal  symptoms 
of  disapprobation  by  rising  frequently  during  its 
continuance,  taking  his  hat  as  if  to  depart,  and  re- 
seating  himself  with  an  air  of  evident  chagrin. 
"  Surely,"  said  he,  on  another  occasion,  "  the  church 
is  a  place  where  one  day's  truce  may  be  allowed  to 
the  dissensions  and  animosities  of  mankind." 

During  the  stay  of  the  family  here,  his  niece.  Miss 
French,  who  had  come  from  Ireland  to  reside  with 
them,  was  accustomed  to  relate  a  little  incident  of 
the  ingenuity  and  knowledge  of  small  things  pos- 
sessed by  her  uncle,  being  imexpectedly  put  to  the 
test.  A  ball  being  to  take  place  at  the  rooms,  the 
ladies,  who  had  been  little  in  public  in  consequence 
of  Mrs.  Burke's  indisposition,  became  anxious  to 
ascertain  the  prevailing  colours  and  modes  in  that 
then  very  fashionable  place  of  resort,  but  were  sadly 
puzzled  to  find  a  fit  messenger  to  dispatch  upon 
this  important  .errand.  Mr.  Burke  overhearing  the 
conversation,  immediately  removed  the  difficulty  by 
jocularly  offering  himself  as  Embassador  extraor- 
dinary on  the  occasion,  and  when  he  found  that 
much  merriment  was  excited  by  the  proposal,  and 
some  remarks  made  upon  his  unfitness  for  a  mission 
requiring  a  special  knowledge  of  caps,  dresses, 
flounces,  tuckers,  and. all  the  paraphernalia  of  female 
dress,  good-hnmouredly  replied,  "  Come,  come,  I 
know  more  of  these  things  than  you  give  me  credit 
for ;  my  knowledge  must  not  be  und^valued  until 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  16S 

it  is  tried.'*  To  the  rooms  accordingly  he  went  duly 
instructed  by  the  ladies,  made  his  remarks,  accord-- 
ing  to  his  instructions,  and  returned  with  a  humour- 
ous, and,  as  it  proved,  very  correct  account  of  all  he 
had  observed. 

Toward  the  end  of  August  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds 
published  a  print  of  him,  engraved  by  Benedetti, 
from  the  best  portrait  painted  by  himself  in  1776  ; 
underneath  it  the  President  caused  to  be  engraved 
the  following  lines  from  the  fifth  book  of  Paradise 
Lost — ^the  conduct  of  the  good  Abdiel;  a  strong 
allusion,  it  will  be  perceived,  to  the  recent  political 
quarrel,  and  expressive  of  his  own  sense  of  the 
proceedings  of  Opposition,  as  well  as  of  their  treat- 
ment, on  that  occasion,  of  his  friend : — 

"  So  spake  the  fervent  Angela  but  Iiis  zeal 
None  seconded^  as  out  of  season  judged. 
Or  singular  and  rash  ■ 


unmoved^ 


Undiaken^  unseduced>  unterrified ; 

His  loyalty  he  kept,  his  love,  his  zeal ; 

Nor  number  nor  example  with  him  wrought 

To  swerve  from  truth,  or  change  his  constant  mind 

Though  single.     From  amid'st  them  forth  he  passed 

Long  way  through  hostile  scorn,  which  he  sustain'd 

Superior,  nor  of  violence  fear'd  aught ; 

And  with  retorted  scorn  his  back  he  tum'd 

On  those  proud  towers  to  swift  destructimi  doomM." 


Mr.  Burke»  whose  humility  was  as  distinguished 
as  any  o^Stker  of  his  qualities,  and  who  did  not  see 
the  plate  ujitil  a  considerable  number  of  impressions 
had  been  worked  off,  urged  the  strongest  remon- 
strances against  the  application  of  tf:uch  lines  to  him.; 

M  2 


164  LIFE  or   THE 

and  inaiated,  almost  as  the  ccmditioti  of  eoatfaiued 
friendship^  that  they  should  be  obliterated,  or- the 
plate  and  all  the  impressions  from  it  which  had  not 
been  distributed,  destroyed.  Sir  Joshna  submitted 
to  this  determination  of  his  friend  with  great  reluct- 
ance, and  it  was  so  unrelentingly  carried  into  effect 
that  very  few  are  now  to  be  found.  So  far  did  Mr. 
Burke  carry  this  feeling,  squeamish  or  affected  as 
some  may  consider  it,  that  whenever  ke  met  with 
one  of  these  prints  in  the  house  of  a  friend,  he  used 
to  beg  it  as  a  particular  favour,  in  exdbange  for  one 
without  the  lines,  and  it  was  no  soon^  obtained 
than  destroyed. 

.  At  this  period  also  it  may  be  remarked,  th,at  the 
war  of  caricatures  which  had  been  carried  on  agmmst 
him  for  many  years  with  some  wit  and  address,  as 
well  as  against  Mr.  Fox  and  others  of  the  Opposition, 
now  turned  in  some  degree  in  his  fevour.  The 
Jesuit's  dress,  by  which  and  by  his  spectacles  he  had 
hitherto  been  commonly  represented  was  omitted, 
and  he  was  afterwards  chiefly  drawn  as  oostfoimding 
or  exposing  in  debate  the  apologists  of  the  Revolu- 
tion. A  collection  of  these  graphic  though  fleeting 
memorials  of  the  whims  or  satire  of  the  day,  made 
by  an  admirer  of  Mr.  Burke  and  an  acquaintance  of 
the  writer,  affords  some  amusing  scenes  at  this 
period  of  time ;  the  likenesses  preserved  in  them  are 
as  faithful  as  caricature  pretends  to  be,  and  some  of 
his  oratorical  attitudes  are  very  correctly  caught. 

This  pictorial  wit,  however,  even  when  most  hostile 
to  him,  far  from  inflicting  pain,  frequently  became 
a  source  of  amusemetit  to  himself  and  his  friends,  as 
th^  following  anecdote   will   testify.     Some  years 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  I6tf 

since,  when  dining  at  Lord  Tankerville's,  the  con- 
versation turning  on  caricatures,  a  gentleman  re- 
marked, that  he  believed  Mr.  Fox  had  been  oftener 
exhibited  in  that  way  than  any  other  man  in  the 
kingdom^^**  I  beg  pardon,"  said  Mr.  Burke,  '*  but 
I  think  I  may  put  in  my  claim  to  a  greater  number 
and  variety  of  exhibitions  in  that  line  than  my 
bonourable  friend."  ^  I  hope,"  observed  Mr.  Fox, 
'^  they  give  you  no  imeadHess.''  *'  Not  in  the  least," 
was  the  reply,  **  I  have,  I  believe,  seen  them  all, 
laughed  at  them  all,  and  pretty  well  remember  them 
all ;  and  if  you  feel  inclined  to  be  amused,  and  it 
would  not  be  trespassing  on  the  indulgence  of  the 
company,  I  can  repeat  the  different  characters  in 
which  I  have  figured  in  the  shops,  obedient  to  the 
mimic  powers  of  tiie  pencil."  Accordingly  he  began, 
and  ddAiled  them  all  in  so  humourous  a  manner  as 
to  keep  the  table  in  continual  laughter  during  his 
description. 


166  LIFE  OF  TH£ 


CHAPTER  III. 

Anecdote  of  Burke's  unobtrusive  spirit.— -Appeal  from  tlie  Sew 
to  the  Old  Whigs. — French  Emigrants. — Letter  to  Mr.  (now 
Baron)  Smith. — ^Writings  on  French  Afiairs>  and  on  the  Ronuin 
Catholic  Claims. — Sir  Joshua  Reynolds. — Parliamentary  Busi- 
ness.— Letter  on  the  Death  of  Mr.  Shackleton. — War  witli 
France.-«-Letter  of  Mr.  R.  Burke>  Jun.  to  Mr.  Smith. 


Allusions  having  been  made  in  this  work  to  that 
unobtrusive  spirit,  which,  whether  called  humi- 
lity or  modesty,  constantly  actuated  Mr.  Burke  in 
restraining  his  partial  and  admiring  friends  from 
giving  to  the  world  through  the  customary  channels, 
those  biographical  notices  and  domestic  details  and 
aiiecdoies  so  well  calculated  to  exhibit  him  in  an 
amiable  light,  and  many  of  which  are  necessarily 
lost,  an  instance  of  the  fact  may  be  given,  though 
it  occurred  some  time  before  the  period  at  which 
we  are  now  arrived. 

One  of  these  friends,  the  very  oldest  and  one  of 
the  very  warmest  he  possessed,  finding  his  name  to 
occupy  so  frequently  and  so  highly  a  large  share  of 
the  public  attention,  conceived  it  might  gratify 
general  curiosity,  and  pay  a  debt  at  once  to  eminent 
merit  and  long  friendship,  by  communicating  more 
at  large  a  few  of  those  personal  and  domestic  cir- 
cumstances  which  impart  the  only  true  knowledge 
of  character,  and  which  his  opportimities  for  obser- 
vation enabled  him  very  well  to  supply.  This  was 
accordingly  done,  and  inserted  in  a  newsjwiper  of  the 


HIGHT   HON.  EDMUND   BURKE.  167 

day.  Here  the  piece  met  the  eye  of  the  orator,  and 
though  no  more  than  justice  had  been  rendered  by  it 
to  the  characters  of  himself,  his  lady,  and  family  in 
the  way  of  eulogy,  the  circumstance  caused  him  no 
small  degree  of  annoyance,  and  even  imusual  irrita^ 
tion.  Suspecting  the  quarter  whence  it  proceeded 
by  the  information  it  contained,  he  instantly  wrote 
to '  the  presumed  author,  reprehending  him  most 
severely  for  taking  the  unwarrantable  liberty  of 
intruding  what  he  termed  his  "bed  and  board" 
upon  the  public  eye — of  impertinently  meddling 
with  what  the  world  had  no  concern  whatever — of 
doing  that  which  the  pen  of  malice  and  faction  how- 
ever busy  with  his  political  character,  had  never 
dared  to  touch — and  for  this  unjustifiable  officiousness 
in  the  garb  of  praise,  renouncing  almost  in  positive 
terms,  any  further  acquaintance  or  correspondence. 

Surprised,  and  beyond  measure  hurt,  at  a  result  so 
little  to  be  anticipated,  the  unlucky  friend  returned 
a  dejected,  though  pathetic  and  extremely  well- 
written  reply,  confessing  his  offence,  urging  that 
though  perhaps  open  to  the  charge  of  officiousness, 
he  could  not  divine  that  so  venial  an  error  should 
excite  so  much  displeasure  ;  that  in  doing  as  he  did, 
he  had  no  other  motive  than  to  evince  the  sincere 
love  and  honest  admiration  for  his  talents  and  cha- 
racter which  had  ever  been  the  -  ruling  passions  of 
his  breast— and  if  for  this  cause  he  was  to  be 
deprived  of  the  honour  of  his  future  correspondence 
and  .regard,  a  regard  springing  up  from  their  most 
boyish  days,  and  never  yet  for  a  moment  interrupted, 
he  should  regret  it  as  the  heaviest  misfortune  of  his 
life,  but  if- the  determination  was  finally  taken  as 


46b  lifk  oir  Tiu 

i^  teaor  ^f  liis  jb^ter  «0eiMA  to  knj^ft  kefaide  him 
^orpMidPuIl^  m^aeA  and  icawiUiiigfy'  an  his  part»  it 
li^ag,  bat  4M?i  nffection^tp  end  mqieclfiil  fiurewdL 
This  appeal  com^tely  eubdued  Burke.  Ha  wrota 
ot^  ipstaalJy  a  letter  of  apolagjr  mudi  more  humUa 
iu  its  |;emia  tiiw  that  of  bis  friendt  depreeating  the 
loss  pf  his  regard)  deeiriog  to  recall  his  hasty  and 
impf oj^V  comintmicatioQ)  and  to  bury  in  obliWon  its 
h^rsh  tone,  aiid  sinoerely  b^ging  his  fbrgiveneas  for 
displaying  toif  a^ds  hiqi  even  for  a  moment  that  oon« 
stitutional  irritability  whiph  he  so  well  knew  was  a 
failing  of  hi9  n^tur^,  but  which  he  should  take  care 
should  neyer  ^gaiu  be  permitted  to  interfere  with 
f h^ir  long  and  h^  hoped  imfailing  friendship. 

Ills  eady  and  esteemed  acquaintance,  Mr.  Shaddo* 
ton,  of  Ballitore,  who  viaited  London  v«ry  frequently 
in  the  spring,  to  attend  the  annual  meetii^  ctf  the 
Friends'  Society,  spent  a  oonsiderable  portion  of  his 
time  either  at  Butler's  Court  or  at  the  house  of  the 
family  in  town,  and  when  business  or  other  daima 
ftppn  his  time  carried  him  elsewhere,  Mr.  Burke 
always  regretted  the  disappointmoit  The  foUoving 
is  puf  of  his  notes  to  him,  written  in  the  early  part 
of  this  year. 

**  My  d£ae  Shackleton,  ' 
<•'  I  shall  be  most  happy  to  see  you.    My  wife  will 
be  in  town  on  this  day ;  at  least  I  hope  so.    Why 
can't  you  dine  with  us  also?   I  have  refused 
invitations  this  morning  to  keep  myself  for  you. 

**  Yours  most  truly, 
"  Edmund  Bueke. 

*'  Friday." 


RIGHT  WQH*   XBMUND   BURKE.  16^ 

A  few  days  after  tlie  rapture  with  Mr.  Fox^  a  ^ 

paragraph  hsving  appeared  in  the  Morning  Chnv 
nicle  *  slating  that  the  great  body  of  the  Whig  party 
having  decided  on  the  late  dispute  between  Mr.  Fox 
and  Mr.  Burke  in  fevour  of  the  purer  tenets  of  the 
former,  the  latter  was  in  consequence  to  retire  from 
Parliament.     This  sentence  of  ejectment  from  his  ' 

seat,  though  wholly  gratuitous,  and  if  not  meant  as 
a  slight  to  him,  probably  intended  to  mislead  the 
pubHc  mind  on  the  unanimity  of  the  party,  only 
reiterated  a  declaration  which  he  had  some  time 
before  made,  of  intending  to  retire  from  the  House 
of  Commons  whenever  the  impeachment  should  ter* 
,  minate.  As  a  trick,  therefore,  it  was  unworthy  of 
his  notice.  But  the  intimation  conveyed  in  the  first 
portion  of  the  paragraph  relative  to  the  purer 
Whiggism  of  the  m^nber  for  Westminster,  bein^ 
re-echoed  in  and  out  of  Parliament  by  persons 
attached  to  him,  an  answer  became  necessary  in  the 
opinion  of  his  antagonist,  in  order  to  test  what 
Whig  jH^dples  really  were,  by  comparing  those 
avowed  by  Mr.  Fox  and  his  friends  with  those  main« 
tained  at  the  revolution,  the  era  of  their  supposed 
greatest  purity. 

For  this  purpose  appeared  towards  the  end  of  the 
summer,  ^  An  Appeal  from  the  New  to  the  Old 
Whigs."     In  this  pamphlet,  which  is  couched  in  a 

*  May  12,  1791—'*  The  great  and  firm  body  of  the  Whigs  of 
Ei^andj  tnie  to  their  piindples,  have  decided  on  the  dispute  j 

between  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr.  Burke ;  and  the  former  is  declared  to  | 

have  maintained  the  pure  doctrines  by  which  they  are  bound  toge*  ' 

thctj  and  upon  which  they  have  invariably  acted*  The  conse- 
quence is  that  Mr.  Burke  retires  from  Parliament." 


170  LIFE   OF   THB 

very  calm  tone^  and  written  in  the  third  person;  he 
successfully  accomplishes  his  purpose  of  proving 
that  his  doctrines  were  in  perfect  coincidence  with 
the  allowed  standard  of  correctness,  and  that  from 
these  he  had  not  swerved.  He  defends  his  conduct 
in  the  whole  of  the  recent  dispute,  with  a  modera- 
tion of  manner  and  a  statement  of  circumstances, 
sunple  and  undeniable  in  themselves,  which  perhaps 
preclude  any  sufficient  answer  being  given  to  him. 
He  maintains  his  consistency  as  one  of  the  most 
valuable  parts  of  his  public  character,  and  retraces 
the  general  complexion  of  his  exertions,  as  well  as 
the  very  words  made  use  of  on  several  important 
occasions,  in  order  to  prove  their  perfect  conformity 
with  those  advanced  in  that  work  (the  Reflections) 
which  the  party  had  taken  so  much  pains  to  con- 
demn. The  chief  reasons  for  writing  it  are  given 
briefly  but  forcibly,  and  among  them  are  the  fol- 
lowing : 

*^  He  proposed  to  prove  that  the  present  state  of 
things  in  France  is  not  a  transient  evil,  productive, 
as  some  have  too  favourably  represented  it,  of  a 
lasting  good,  but  that  the  present  evil  is  only  the 
means  of  producing  future  and  (if  that  were  pos- 
sible) worse  evils.  That  it  is  not  an  imdigested, 
imperfect,  and  crude  scheme  of  liberty,  which  may 
gradually  be  mellowed  and  ripened  into  an  orderly 
and  social  freedom,  but  that  it  is  so  fundamentally 
wrong  as  to  be  utterly  incapable  of  correcting  itself 
by  any  length  of  time,  or  of  being  formed  into  any 
mode  of  polity  of  which  a  member  of  the  House  of 
Commons  could  publicly  declare  his  approbation.** 
The  decisive  .boldness  of  this  and  many  similar  pre- 


KIOHT   HO:^?    EDMUND   BUBKE.  171 

dictions  and  their  subsequent  exact  fulfilment,  will 
often  astonish  the  reader  in  the  writings  of  this 
extraordinary  man. 

As  an  exemplification  of  his  power  to  assume  any 
style  which  suited  the  whim  or  the  necessity  of  the 
moment,  the  present  pamphlet  is  not  unworthy  of 
notice.  It  resembles  most  nearly  the  "  Short  Ac- 
count of  a  late  short  Administration ; "  the  one  a 
statement  of  facts  illustrative  of  the  career  of  a  mi- 
nistry, the  other  explanatory  of  his  own ;  and  both 
so  different  from  his  impassioned  style  of  writing  as 
to  present  scarcely  a  feature  of  resemblance. 

Few  things  affected  his  sensibility  more  about 
this  period,  and  indeed  for  some  time  before,  than 
the  hordes  of  emigrants  driven  from  opulence  and 
respectability  in  their  native  country,  to  poverty  and 
obscurity  in  this,  by  means  of  the  secret  menace  or 
open  violence  of  the  sanguinary  characters  who  exer^ 
cised  the  municipal  authority  in  a  large  portion  of 
France.  Forthereliefofthepoorer  class,  besidesgiving 
as  much  in  the  way  of  relief  as  his  own  means  permitted, 
he  exerted  all  his  influence  by  raising  private  subscrip- 
tions among  his  friends,  by  appeals  to  the  public,* 

*  The  foUowing  plain  and  dispassionate  appeal  to  public  libe* 
rality  in  favour  of  the  distressed  body  of  French  Clergy,  drawn 
up  by  Mr.  Burke/ and  distributed  in  September,  179^^  produced 
a  handsome  subscription ;  it  is  given  here  on  account  of  not  ap-^ 
pearing  in  any  other  volume  coniiected  with  him. 

"  It  is  wdl  known  that  a  cruel  and  inhuman  persecution  is  now 
and  hath  for  some  time  past  been  carried  on  by  a  faction  of 
aUieists,  infidels,  and  other  persons  of  evil  principiles  and  disposi- 
tions, calling  themselves  philosophers,  against  our  brethren  the 
Christians  of  France.  In  this  persecution,  a  vast  multitude  of 
Iiersons  of  all  agest,  sexes,  and  conditions,   and  particularly  the 


172  LIFE  OF  THE 

and  afterwards  by  applicationB  to  government*  To 
others  of  higher  rank,  his  house  and  table  were  open 

clergy,  have  sufiered  in  a  giievoot  manner.  Many  of  them  have 
been^  with  drcumstanoes  of  great  barbarity  and  outrage,  put  to 
deaths  and  their  bodies,  according  to  the  customs  lately  prevalent 
in  France,  treated  with  savage  indignities. 

**  Several  women,  of  whom  some  weie  of  rank,  dedicated  to 
religion,  in  the  peculiar  elerciae  of  a  sublime  charity,  by  an  at* 
tendance  on  the  sick  in  hospitals,  have  been  stripped  naked,  and 
in  public  barbarously  scourged.  Thousands  of  other  respectable 
religious  women,  mostly  engaged  in  the  education  of  persons  of 
their  own  sex,  and  other  laudable  occupations,  have  been  deprived 
of  their  estates,  and  expelled  from  their  houses,  in  which  they 
had  puichaaed  a  property  by  the  portions  given  to  them  by  their 
parents.  These  respectable  women  axe  many  of  them  far  advanced 
in  years,  and  labouring  under  great  infirmities;  the  major  part 
are  at,  or  near,  the  declining  period  of  life,  and  all  are  utterly  in- 
conversant in  the  afiairs  of  the  world,  and  in  the  means  of  pro- 
curing themselves  any  subsiBtenoe.  They,  by  whose  charity  they 
scantily  subsisted,  under  every  species  of  insult,  vexation,  and 
oppressLon,  before  their  expulsion  from  their  houses  by  the  philo- 
sophic faction,  are  now,  for  the  most  part,  themselves  obliged  to 
fly  their  country,  or  are  reduced  to  almost  an  equal  degree  of 
penury  with  those  they  had  been  accustomed  to  relieve. 

**  Many  thousand  of  the  parochial  clergy,  after  having  been 
driven  from  their  livings  and  houses,  and  robbed  of  their  \efgaX 
property,  have  been  deprived  of  the  wretched  pension^  which  had 
been  by  public  faith  stipulated  to  be  paid  to  them  when  that  rob- 
bery and  expnlsion  were  ordered ;  and  have  been  exposed  to  perish 
by  famine.  Others,  in  very  great  numben,  have  been  arUtrarily 
thrown  into  unwhoksome  prisons^  and  kept  there  a  long  time 
without  any  redress,  against  all  kw,  and  against  the  direet  oidara 
of  the  supreme  magbtrate  of  their  new  c(»stitution,  whose  du^ 
it  was  to  see  that  no  illegal  punishment  should  be  exeeutedi  At 
length,  after  a  tedious  impriflonment,  (sufiered  with  a  mildnnsB, 
a  patience,  and  a  constancy  which  have  not  been  denied  by  their 
very  persecutors^  whose  rage  and  malice,  however,  these  examples 
of  Christian  virtue  have  fidled  in  the  least  degree  to  mitigate,) 
the  municipal  bodies,  or  the  factious  clubs  who  a^qioint  and  giude 


BIGHT   HON.   CDMimB  BURKE.  17S 

tmtil  a  more  permanent  residence  could  be  protored 
for  them  ;  and  in  performing  this  work  of  christiaa 

Iken,  have  hy  their  proper  autbority  transported  into  m  ftieign 
Idngdo—  a  conndeffaUe  number  of  these  prisonen  in  Atre  dups. 
At  the  same  tune,  all  the  rest  of  the  dergy,  who  hf  lying  hid^  dr 
flying  from  plaee  to  place,  have  hitherto  escaped  confinement; 
and  endeaToured  in  private  to  wordup  God^  acooxdiBg  to  their 
eosscienoesy  and  the  ancient  fundamental  laws  of  their  country^ 
are  hunted  out  like  wild  beasts ;  and  a  decree  of  the  National 
AnonUy  itself  has  now  ordered  them>  in  tenns  the  most  insulting 
and  atrocious  ever  used  by  a  public  assembly,  to  quit  the  kingdosa 
wiAin  15  days,  without  the  least  preparation  and  provisioPy  ov> 
together  wilJi  those  imprisoned,  and  yet  not  exiled,  to  be  instantlf 
tBMSported  to  the  most  wild,  uncultivated,  and  pestiferoos  peat  o£ 
the  whofe  globe ;  that  is  to  Guiana,  in  South  Ameiica. 

^  An  thishas  been  done  without  calling  upon <ine  single penoK: 
of  the  many  thousands  subject  to  this  severe  and  imquibous  scntanoe^ 
as  well  as  to  all  the  cruel  preceding  oppvessians;,  to  answer  any  spe^ 
dfted  ofienee  or  chaige  whatsoever.  Several  of  the  snd  elerg3r> 
some  fif  vrhom  are  aged  and  infirm  pezsons,  to  avoid  impnsonnieat 
and  tfie  other  various  vexations  above-mentioned,  and  in  many 
oases  to  prevent  the  commission  of  furdier  comes,  in  the  destruo* 
tion  of  their  respective  flocks  for  their  attachment  to  their  pastors, 
have  been  ddiged  to  fly  their  country,  and  to  take  refege  in  th* 
Britidn  dominions,  where  their  general  exemplary  behaviour  has 
greatly  acUbd  to  the  compassion  excited  by  th^  unmerited  suftr- 


**  It  is  confidently  hoped  that  a  difference  in  religious  persuasion 
wiB  not  shut  the  hearts  of  the  English  public  agaanst  their  msB^^ 
mg  hDetfaien,  the  cfaristiansof  France  ;  but  that  all  true  sons  of 
the  chnr^  of  En^nd,  all  true  subjects  ni  our  Saviour,  Jesus 
Christ,  who  are  not  ashamed,  in  this  time  of  apostacy  or  prevari- 
Gati0n>  to  confess  their  obedience  to,  and  imitation  of  their  divine 
master  in  their  charity  to  their  suffering  brethren  of  all  deno- 
minatums — ^it  is  hoped,  that  aD  persons  who  from  the  imbied  sen- 
timents of  a  generous  nature  cultivate  the  virtues  of  humanity •«• 
it  is  hoped,  that  all  persons  attached  to  the  cause  of  religious  and 
civil  liberty  as  it  is  connected  with  law  and  order — it  is  hoped, 
that  all  these  will  be  gratified  in  having  an  opportunity  of  con- 


174  LIFE   OF   THE 

beneficence  and  charity  it  ought  to  be  mentioned 
to  his  honour,  that  some  of  the  pecuniary  difficulties 

tributing  to  the  support  of  these  worthy  sufferers  in  the  dtuse  of 
honour^  virtue^  loyalty,  and  religion."  (Mention  is  then  made  of 
the  subscriptions  for  the  people  of  LisboOj  after  the  earthquake, 
and  that  for  the  French  prisoners  of  war^  in  176I.) 

''  We  trust  that  such  of  our  countiymen  as  were  then  alive  are 
still  mindfld  of  their  former  virtue ;  and  that  the  generation  which 
has  succeeded  is  emulous  of  the  good  actums  of  their  anoeston. 
The  gentlemen  for  whom  this  subscription  is  proposed^  have  never 
been  guilty  of  any  evil  design  against  us.  They  have  fled  for 
refuge  to  this  sanctuary.  They  are  here  under  the  sacred  pro- 
tection of  hoqsitality. — Englishmen  who  cherish  the  virtue  of 
hospitality,  and  who  do  not  wish  an  hard  and  scanty  constructioa 
of  its  laws,  will  not  think  it  enough  that  such  guests  are  in 
safety  from  the  violence  of  their  own  countrymen,  while  they 
perish  from  our  neglect. 

''  These  respectable  sufferers  are  much  greater  objects  of  com- 
pasdon  than  soldiers  and  mariners,   men  professionally  formed 
to  hardships,  and  the  vidssitudes  of  life — our  sufferers  are  men 
of  peaceful,  studious,  uniform  habits ;  in  a  course  of  life  entered 
into  upon  prospects  and  provisions  held  out  by  the  laws,  and  by 
all  men  reputed  certain.     Perhaps  of  all  persons  in  the  world, 
they  had  the  least  reason  to  look  for  imprisonment,  exile,  and 
fi^mne.     Englishmen  will  not  argue  crime  from  misfortune. 
They  will  have  an  awful  feeling  of  the  uncertain  nature  of  all 
human  prosperity.     These  men  had  their  establishments  too; 
they  were  protected  by  laws ;  they  were  endowed  with  revenues. 
They  had  houses,  they  had  estates.    And  it  is  but  the  other  day 
that  these  very  persons  distributed  alms  in  their  own  country,  for 
whon^  in  their  extreme  necessities,  alms  are  now  requested  in  a 
foreign  land."    (The  Bishop  of  St.  Pol  de  Leon  is  proposed  to 
distribute  the  subscription,  as  best  acquainted  with  the  wants  and 
claims  of  the  sufierers ;  and  a  postscript  is  added.) — *'  Since  the 
drawing  up  of  this  case,  many  hundreds  of  the  clergy  have  been 
massacred  at  Paris,  with  the  venerable  Archbishop  of  Aries,  a 
prelate,  the  greatest  ornament  of  the  GaUican  Church,  in  virtue 
and  knowledge,  and  four  other  eminent  and  worthy  bishops  at 
their  head.     Some  bishops,  and  a  considerable  number  of  th^ 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  175 

-with  which  he  had  to  struggle,  were  incurred.  A 
modem  writer  (C.  Butler,  Esq.)  gives  the  follow- 
ing account  of  one  of  the  almost  daily  levees  of  Mr. 
Burke,  to  these  unfortunate .  persons,  at  which  he 
was  present : — 

"  Some  time  in  the  month  of  August,  1791,  the 
Reminiscent  called  on  that  great  man,  and  found 
him,  as  he  usually  was  at  this  time,  surrounded  by 
many  of  the  French  mobility,  and  haranguing  with 
great  eloquence  on  the  horrors  of  the  French  revo- 
lution, and  the  general  ruin  with  which  it  threatened 
every  state  in  Europe.  One  of  his  hearers  inter- 
rupted him  by  saying,  with  somewhat  more  of 
levity  than  suited  either  the  seriousness  of  the  sub- 
ject, or  the  earnestness  with  which  Mr.  Burke  was 
expressing  himself — ^^  Mais  enfin.  Monsieur,  quand 
est  96  que  nous  retoumerons  dans  la  France?" 
"  Jamais  *' — was  Mr.  Burke's  answer. — It  was  a 
word  of  woe  :  he  pronounced  it  in  a  very  impressive 
manner,  and  it  evidently  appalled  the  whole  audience. 

**  After  a  short  silence,  during  which  his  mind 
appeared  to  be  labouring  with  something  too  big 
for  utterance — •"  Messieurs,"  he  exclaimed,  "  les 
fausses  esperan9es  ne  sont  pas  une  monnoie,  que 
j'ai  dans  mon  tiroir  : — dans  la  France  vous  ne  retour- 
nerez  jamais."  **  Quoi  done,"  cried  one  of  the  au- 
dience, "  9es  coquins  T'  "  Coquins !"  said  Mr. 
Biirke,  ^'  ils  sOnt  coquins ;  mais  ils  sont  les  coquins 
les  plus  terrible  que  le  monde  a  connu !  "r— "  It  is 
most  strange,"  he  then  said  in  the  English  language 
— ^^  I  fear  I  am  the  only  person  in  France  or  Eng^ 

inferior  clergy  are  arrived^    and  are  daily  and  almost  hourly 
arriving,  since  that  horrihle  slaaghter." 


176  UF£  OF  THC 

land;  who  isi  xwvace  oi  the  extent  of  the  dsaiget  widi 
which  we  are  threatened."  **  But,"  said  the  Rtod- 
aiscent^  wishing  to  prolong  the  very  intereitii^^  cxm- 
versation,  **  the  Duke  of  Bmnswiek  is  to  set  all 
right."— "The  Duke  of  Brunswick!"  exdbiinied 
Mr.  Burke — "  the  Duke  oi  Bniinswick  to  do  any 
good !  A  war  of  poets  to  suhdue  France !  "--^Another 
silence. — **  Ce  qui  me  desespere  de  jAus,"  be  then 
aaid — "  est  que  grajid  j^  ptibie  dans  hemisphere  po« 
litique  je  ne  vdis  gueres  une  t^te  ministeriette  k  ta 
hauteur  des  cireonstan9ea." 

Among  his  other  visitsrs  £re«t  France  about  this 
time  was  the  fiunous  Madame  de  Geidis,  who,  with 
her  charaberlain  and  suite  took  up  their  aiiode  toff 
a  short  time  at  Butler's  Court,  and  of  whom,  the 
following  anecdotes  were  current  in  the  hndfy. 
Tlie  chamberlain,  almoeit  as  seon  as  he  had  secuMd 
a  footing  in  the  house,  commnBicated  that  Madame 
le  Comtesse  could  not  sleq^  if  the  feast  portion  of 
light  gained  admission  into  her  bed->roonk  The 
darkest  was  therefidre  appropriated  to-  her,  but  tiiiis 
would  not  do;  the  sbatters  were  fitted  afresh  to 
exclude  the  intrusiT^  mocning,  but  in  Tain;  thicfe 
window-eurtains  were  suiKradded^  to>  so  purpose ; 
dense  bed-curtains  ckmly  drawn  to  boot,  but  aQ 
ineffectually  for  thtpest^  light  was,  or  was  said  to 

be,  stiiJt  vivsible ^A  carpenter  was  at  length  added 

to  the  establidbunent  of  the  ooansiony  whose  business 
it  was  erery  evening  to  nail  up  blankets  against 
every  crevice  by  which  it  was  possible  ibr  a  ray  of 
light  to  enter,  and  in  the  morning  to  remove  them 
— and  this  remedy,  happily  for  the  peace  of  the 
house  and  the  slumbers  of  the  lady,  proved  effectual. 


RIGHT   HON.   lEDMtrKD   BURKE.  li7 

Madame,  hawever,  did  not  prove  so  great  a  favour- 
ite with  some  of  the  friends  of  her  distinguished  host 
$s  was  expected.  Her  great  ambition  or  failing  was 
to  do,  or  to  be  thought  to  do,  every  thing ;  to  possess 
a  universal  genius  both  in  mind  and  in  mechanical 
powers,  beyond  the  attainments  of  her  own,  or  even 
of  the  other  sex.  A  ring  which  she  wore  of  very 
curious,  indeed  exquisite  workmanship,  having  at- 
tracted the  notice  of  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  While  she 
remained  at  Butler's  Court,  he  inquired  by  what 
good  fortune  it  had  come  into  her  possession,  and 
received  for  answer  that  it  was  executed  by  herself. 
— Sir  Joshua  stared,  but  made  no  reply.  "  I  have 
done  with  her,** — said  he  the  first  time  he  was  alone 
with  Mr.  Burke  afterwards — **  to  have  the  assurance 
to  tell  me  such  a  tale !  Why,  my  dear  Sir,  it  is  an 
antique  ;-^no  living  artist  in  Europe  can  equal  it.'* 

One  of  the  most  pleasing  results  derived  to  Mr. 
Burke  from  his  literary  and  parliamentary  exertions 
against  the  wild  politics  of  the  day,  was  the  reason-' 
able  train  of  thought  which  they  tended  to  excite  or  to 
confirm  in  yoimg  men  of  superior  talents  and  station 
in  life,  and  in  those  who  were  intended  for  the  libersd 
professions,  of  whom  some  might  in  time  be  ex- 
pected to  possess  authority  in  the  state,  and  thus 
tlux)ugh  his  instrumentality  become  the  future  safe- 
guards of  the  constitution.  His  disciples  indeed 
soon  became  numerous,  in  effect  and  substance  at 
least  if  not  in  name.  From  several  of  those  who 
are  now  the  chief  ornaments  of  both  Houses  of 
Parliament,  he  received  testimonies  of  respect  and 
admiration,  such  as  were  gratifying  to  age  to  receive, 
and  honourable  to  youth  to  pay. 

VOL.  II.     ^  N 


178  LIFE  OF  XHE 

Among  others  of   this  class  wjbib  Mr.  WiUiam 
Smith,*  son  of  Sir  Michael  Smith,  Bart^  Master  of 
the  Rolls  in  Ireland,  who,  educated  at  CSurist  Church, 
Oxford,  learned  there  to  estimate  at  their  due  value 
the  merits  of  his  illustrious  countryman.    To  fight 
therefore  under  his  banners  became  almost  a  matter 
of  course.      Though  very  young,  he  had  not  suf- 
fered himself  to  be  misled  by  those  illusive  specur 
lations  promulgated  imder  the  name  of  liberty,  and 
so  well  calculated  to  impose  upon  youth ;  and  thqugh 
a  man  of  genius,  he  did  not  deem  it  necessary  to  dis- 
play that  fashion  of  it  which  waywardly  runs  counter 
to  the  opinions  of  the  aged,  the  observant,  and  the 
wise  of  his  own  time.     Possessing  a  spirit  too  active 
to  remain  neuter  or  idle  in  the  conflict  then  raging 
with  what  were  considered  republican  principles,  he 
enlisted  as  an  author  militant  against  them,  and  as 
the  forerunner    of    those  eminent  talents   which 
have  raised  him  to  his  present  distinguished  sta- 
tion in  his  native  country,  produced  several  pieces 
which  attracted  considerable  notice.    One. of  these, 
<'  The  Bights  of   Citizens,"   he  dedicated  to    Mr. 
Burke.    Its  main  object  was  to  insist  upo(i  what,  in 
the  enthusiasm  of  the  moment,  seen^d  to  have  been 
almost  forgotten,  the  stability  and  value  of  men's 
social  and  civil  rights,  as  contradistinguished  &om 
those  precarious  and  fantastic  ones,  which  Paine  had 
been  conjtending  for  .under  the  specious  title  of  Rights 
of  Man.    The  idea  was  weU-timed ;  for  something 
seemed  requisite  to  sober  men  down  firom  the  heated 
contemplation  of  that  which  it  was  impracticable  to 

*  Now  the  Hon/  Sir  William  C.  Smith,  Bart.,  Second  Banm 
of  the  Exchequer  in  Ireland. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  179 

grant  of  usetess  and  in  faef  pernicidus  if  attdned^- 
to  a  jHiBter  estimate  of  the  siAsfantial  good  whidi^ 
thejr  already  enjoyed.  In  return  for  the  dedication, 
the  ingenious  writer  received  the  following  charakv 
teristic  and  admirable  letter,  forwarded  to  him  at 
Spa,  whither  he  had  th<en  proceeded,  whidi  in  more 
than  one  respect  is  w6ll  worthy  the  attention  of  the 
reader. — 


c« 


Sir, 
By  some  neglect  at  my  house  in  town,  I  have 
been  deprived,  till  this  morning,  of  the  satisfaction 
of  reading  your  book.  The  use  I  have  made  of  my 
morning  has  convinced  me  how  much  I  have  suflTeretf 
by  that  n^lect  and  its  consequent  delay. 

^'  I  have  run  over  too  rapidly  your  book :  but  in 
that  rapid  view,  I  am  able  to  estimate  the  value  of 
the  honour  which  has  been  done  me,  by  inscribing 
to  my  name  the  work  of  so  agreeable  a  writei^,  and 
so  deep:  a  thinker,  as  well  as  so  acute  and  distin- 
guishing a  reasoner.  Your  work  is,  indeed,  a  very 
satisfactory  refutation  of  that  specious  folly  of  the 
Rights  of  Man ;  and  I  am  not  a  little  proud  that  I 
have  had  the  good  fortune  (as  you  will  see  sometime 
or  other)  to  coincide  with  some  of  3rour  ideas,  in  a 
piece  which  is  just  printed,  but  not  yet  published.* 
The  points  in  which  we  happen  to  coincide,  you  have 
certainly  handled  much  more  fully  and  much  better. 
I  have  only  touched  upon'  them.    It  was  not  my 

*  This  was  the  ''  Appeal  from  the  New  to  the  Old  Whigs/' 
in  which,  for  the  purpose  of  oompariiig  fohner  opinions  with  those 
broached  hythe  apologists  of  the  revolutions  or  at  least  the  results 
tQ  which  they  led^  he  had  quoted  passages  ftom  Paine. 

N  2 


180  LIFE  OP  THE 

{dan  to  go  deeply  into  the  abstract  subject ;  because 
it  was  rath^  my  desire  to  defend  myself  against  the 
extraordinary  attacks  of  some  of  my  late  political 
friends,  than  formally  to  set  about  the  refutation  of 
what  you  very  properly  call  visions ; — ^indeed  they 
may  be  called  delirious,  feverish  ravings.  To  refute 
such  things,  required  a  capacity  for  such  deep  and 
large  views  of  society  and  human  affairs,  as  you 
have  shown. — But  the  more  clearly  you  refute  them, 
the  less  you  are  comprehended  by  those  whose  dis- 
tempered reason  you  would  cure. 

'*  The  discharge  of  peccant  matter  must  have  its 
course ;  and  will  continue  as  long,  I  am  afraid,  as 
the  disease  from  whence  it  proceeds  has  matter  to 
feed  it : — ^I  mean  the  ambition  of  certain  descrip- 
tions of  men,  to  distract  that  society,  in  which, 
though  they  are  not  without  their  proper  share  of 
attention,  they  think  they  do  not  possess  all  the 
importance  to  which  they  are  entitled. 

"  You  talk  of  Paine  with  more  respect  than  he 
deserves.  He  is  utterly  incapable  of  comprehending 
his  subject.  He  has  not  even  a  moderate  portion  of 
learning  of  any  kind.  He  has  learned  the  instru" 
mental  part  of  literature ;  a  style^  and  a  method  of 
disposing  of  his  ideas ;  without  having  ever  made  a 
previous  preparation  of  study,  or  thinking,  for  the 
use  of  it.  Junius^  and  other  sharply-penned  libels 
of  otur  time,  have  furnished  a  stock  to  the  adven- 
tulrers  in  composition,  which  gives  what  they  write 
an  air,  (and  but  an  air,)  of  art  and  skill ;  *  but  as  to 

*  This  passage  has  always  appeared  to  Sir  Williain  Smith  a 
decisive  refutation  of  the  o6njecture  that  the  Letters  of  Junius 
were  writtenliy  Mr.  Burke.  It  wiU  have,  no  doubt>  much  weight 
in  the  list  of  contra-indicants. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BUBKE.  181 

the  resty  Paine  possesses  nothing  more  than  what  a 
man  whose  audacity  makes  him  careless  of  logical 
consequences,  and  his  total  want  of  honor  and  mo- 
rality makes  indifferent  as  to  political  consequences, 
can  very  easily  write. 

**  They  indeed,  who  seriously  write  upon  a  prin- 
ciple of  levelling,  ought  to  be  answered  by  the  ma^ 
gistrate,  and  not  by  the  speculatist.  The  people 
whom  they  would  corrupt,  and  who  are  very  cor- 
ruptible, can  readily  comprehend  what  flatters  their 
vices,  and  falls  in  with  their  ignorance;  but  that 
process  of  reasoning  which  would  show  to  the 
poorest  how  much  his  poverty  is  comparative  riches, 
in  his  state  of  subordination,  to  what  it  woidd  be  in 
such  an  equality  as  is  recommended  to  him,  is  above 
his  comprehension,  even  if  it  were  pleasing  to  his 
pride ;  because  it  involves  in  it  a  long  and  laboured 
analysis  of  society.  If  he  will  not  receive  it  on 
authority,  he  is  incapable  of  receiving  it  at  all ;  and 
where  a  man  is  incapable  of  receiving  a  benefit 
through  his  reason,  he  must  be  made  to  receive  it 
through  his  fears.  Here  the  magistrate  must  stand 
in  the  place  of  the  professor :  they  who  cannot,  or 
will  not,  be  taught,  must  be  coerced. 

'*  With  more  of  your  approbation  than  I  can  pre- 
sume to  lay  any  claim  to,  I  meet  some  of  your  cen- 
sure, which  I  perhaps  better  deserve.  You  thiidc 
that  my  way  of  treating  these  subjects  is  too  much  in 
the  concrete ;  {here  the  manuscript  is  too  much  blotted 
to  be  legible) — ^too  large  a  share  of  circumstancesi. 
feelings,  &c.  &c.  However,  I  console  myself  in  this» 
because  I  think,  before  you  have  done,  you  condema 
the  abstract  mode  as  much  as  I  do ;  and  I  am  the 
less  ashamed  of  being  in  the  wrong,  when  I  am  in 


182  LIFE   OF   THE 

such  very  good  compaay.  But  surely  you  forget 
that  I  was  throwing  out  reflections  on  a  political 
event,  and  not  reading  a  lecture  upon  the  origin  and 
principles  of  government.  How  I  should  treat  such 
a  subject  is  not  for  me  to  say ;  for  I  never  had  that 
intention.  The  event  itself  too  was  of  a  very  mixed 
nature. 

**  On  all  this,  however,  I  hope  I  sh^U  have  the 
pleasure  of  conversing  with  you  more  fully  at  Bea- 
consfield,  on  your  return,  if  you  should  go  to  the  con* 
tinent  as  early  as  you  intend ;  but  I  hope  something 
may  keep  you  in  London  'till  I  can  get  to  town.  I 
shall  be  ambitious  of  improving  the  acquaintance 
with  which  you  flatter  me. 

*'  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  great  respect  and 
many  thanks.  Sir,  your  most  obedient  humble  ser- 
vant, "  Edmund  Bubke. 

'<  To  William  Smith,  Eaq."  &c  8tc 

In  December,  Mr.  Burke  keeping  his  eye  steadily 
fixed  on  the  progress  of  the  Revolution,  as  the  great 
centre  of  interest  to  a  statesman,  drew  up  a  paper^ 
entitled,  ^^  Thoughts  on  French  Afiajbrs,"  which  was 
submitted  to  the  private  consideration  of  Ministry, 
and  is  marked  by  the  same  spirit  of  fore-knowledge 
as  his  other  writings  on  the  subject.  He  arrives  at 
three  conclusions  of  which  subsequcyit  experience 
has  taught  us  tjhe  truth — rthat  no  counter-revQlution 
in  France  was  to  be  expected  from  interz^d  causes 
only ;  tJtiat  the  longer  the  system  existed  it  would 
become  stronger  both  within  aiid  without ;  and  that 
while  it  did  exist,  it  would  be  the  intefrest  of  iifp 
rulers  there  to  dist^rb  and  distract  all  other  govern- 
ments. 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BUBKE.  188 

The  commiinication  made  to  him  from  the  Em- 
press of  Russia,  through  Count  de  Woronzow  and 
Mr.  Fawk^er  the  British  Minister,  and  already 
alluded  to,  produced  in  return  a  dignified  and  com- 
plimentary letter,  dated  from  Beaconsfield,  Novem- 
ber the  Ist,  insinuating  forcibly  the  necessity  for  her 
Majesty  adopting,  by  active  exertion  as  well  as  by 
declaration,  the  cause  of  all  Sovereigns,  all  churches, 
all  nobility,  and  all  society ;  that  the  debt  due  by 
her  predecessors  to  Europe  for  civilizing  a  vast 
empire,  should  now  be  repaid  by  that  empire  to 
rescue  Europe  from  the  new  barbarism.  An  air  of 
doubt,  however,  pervades  this  letter,  as  if  he  had 
some  suspicion  of  her  zeal  in  the  cause ;  and,  if  so, 
the  result  proved  he  did  not  mistake  her  character, 
as  she  did  nothing,  and  probably  never  meant  to  do 
any  thing,  against  the  revolutionary  faction.  Ca- 
therine, who  possessed  many  of  the  qualities  of  a 
great  Monarch,  was  nevertheless  the  most  selfish  of 
politicians;  to  crime  and  selfishness,  in  fact,  she 
owed  her  crown ;  and  feeling  that  no  danger  to  it 
existed  among  her  own  subjects  where  the  first 
elements  of  freedom  were  unknown,  she  had  not 
generosity  enough  to  step  forward  and  assist  others 
in  distress  when  there  appeared  no  prospect  of 
immediate  profit  from  the  exertion.  The  purpose  of 
her  commimication  to  Mr.  Burke  was  probably  to 
extract  from  him  a  letter  of  admiration  and  praise, 
being  always  ambitious  of  the  notice  of  the  great 
literary  names  of  Europe ;  but  in  returning  the 
courtesy  due  to  a  Sovereign  and  a  female,  it  may 
be  questioned  whether  he  did  not  inflict  some  vio- 
lence on  his  inclination.     Of  her  private  character 


184  LIFE  OF  THE 

there  could  be  but  one  opinion.  To  the  general 
politics  of  her  court,  as  evinced  toward  Turkey  and 
Poland,  he  was  no  greater  friend,  particularly  in  the 
business  of  the  partitions  of  the  latter,  of  which  he 
avowed  that  honest  detestation  which  every  man, 
not  a  profligate  politician,  or  a  robber  by  profession^ 
must  ever  entertain. 

The  grievances  of  the  Irish  Catholics  exciting^ 
increased  discussion  and  dissatisfaction  in  that 
country,  he  was  solicited  to  state  and  support  their 
claims  to  the  English   Ministry,  for  relaxation  of 

the  penal  laws.  His  son  also  was  appointed  their 
agent,  and  early  in  January  1792,  proceeded  to  Ire- 
land to  influence  their  proceedings  by  such  moderate 
counsels  as  might  give  effect  to  his  father's  exertions 
here.  He  carried  with  him,  from  his  fond  parent, 
the  following  letter  to  Lord  Charlemont : 

«  My  dear  Lord,       *<  Beaamsfidd,  Dec  29,  1791- 

**  I  have  seldom  been  more  vexed  that  when  I 
found  that  a  visit  of  mere  formality  had  deprived 
me  of  the  substantial  satisfaction  which  Mrs.  Burke 
and  my  brother  had  in  seeing  you,  as  well  as  they 
had  ever  remembered  you.  Many  things,  at  that 
time,  had  contributed  to  make  that  loss  very  great 
to  me.  Your  Lordship  is  very  good  in  lamenting 
the  difference  which  politics  had  made  between  Mr^ 
Fox  and  me,  Your  condolence  was  truly  kind ;  for 
my  loss  hap  been  truly  great  in  the  cessation  of  the 
partiality  of  a  man  of  his  wonderful  abilities  and 
amiable  dispositions.  Your  Lordship  is  a  little 
angry  at  politics  that  can  dissolve  friendships.  If 
it  should  please  God  to  lend  me  a  little  longer  life. 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  185 

thef  will  not,  I  hope,  cause  me  to  lose  the  few  friends 
I  have  left ;  for,  I  have  left  all  politics  I  think,  for 
ever.*  Every  thing  that  remains  of  my  relation  to 
the  public^  will  be  only  in  my  good  wishes,  which 
are  warm  and  sincere,  that  this  constitution  should 
be  thoroughly  understood,  for  then  I  am  sure  it  will 
be  sincerely  loved ;  that  its  benefits  may  be  widely 
extended,  and  lastingly  continued ;  and  that  no  man 
may  have  an'  excuse  to  wish  it  to  have  another  for-  ' 
tune  than  I  pray  it  may  long  flourish  in.  I  am  sure 
that  your  coimtry,  in  whose  prosperity  I  include  the 
most  valuable  Interest  of  this,  will  have  reason  to 
look  back  on  what  you  have  done  for  it  with  grati- 
tude, and  will  have  reason  to  think  the  continuance 
of  your  health  for  her  ftirther  service,  amongst  the 
greatest  advantages  she  is  likely  to  expect 

Here  is  my  son,  who  will  deliver  this  to  you.  He 
will  be  indenmified  for  what  I  have  lost.  I  think  I 
may  speak  for  this  my  other  and  better  self,  that  he 
loves  you  almost  as  much  as  I  do." 

Shortly  before  this,  Mr.  Burke  had  commenced 
writing  his  celebrated  ^  Letter  to  Sir  Hercules  Lan^ 
grishe^  JBart  M.P.^  as  auxiliary  to  his  son's  mission 
in  favour  of  the  Catholic  claims.  It  bears  date  Ja« 
nuary  3d,  179S,  enforces  the  policy  of  removing  the 
chief  restrictions  to  which  they  were  subject,  parti- 
cularly that  which  denied  them  the  elective  fran-* 

*  ThiB  idea  was  frequently  eacpresaed  by  Mr.  Buxke,  and  for 
the  moment  he  might  possihly  intend  it ;  but,  in  reality,  his  ndnd 
was  too  active  and  too  intent  on  such  topics,  to  lie  dormant  when-> 
ever  an  important  question  presented  itself  for  exercising  his  captr* 
cious  understanding,  and  great  political  knowledge. 


186  LIFE   OF   THE 

ehise,  and  appeals  to  the  recollection  of  his  Mend 
whether  his  opinions  upon  the  question  were  not  as 
fully  matured  and  as  strongly  expressed  S8  years 
before  (1760)  as  at  that  momeat.  So  successful  were 
his  exertions,  aided  in  part  by  those  of  other  friends^ 
that  a  bill  was  speedily  introduced  into  the  Irish 
Parliament  by  whidh  the  profession  of  the  law» 
hitherto  interdicted  to  Roman  Catholics,  becaaie 
Gpen  to  them;  intermarriages  with  Protestants 
legalized;  restraints  upon  their  education,  and  the 
petty  obstruction  to  arts  and  manufactures  shown  in 
Ihniting  the  number  of  apprentices  to  masters  of 
that  persuasion,  r^oioved;  and  next  year  (1793) 
they  gained  the  elective  franchise. 

It  has  been  oiben  the  fate  of  the  political  leaders 
of  Ireland,  not  to  have  their  designs  approved,  or 
perhaps  fiilly  comprehended,  by  persons  of  the  «ame 
dass  in  England,  either  from  some  radical  differenoe 
of  opinion  or  conduct,  or  fr*om  the  opposite  views 
which  the  immediate  seat  of  government,  and  a  de- 
pendency of  such  government,  may  deem  it  their 
interest  to  entertain.  On  this  occasion  th^  were 
not  more  fortunate  than  on  others.  Young  Burke, 
though  from  various  causes  of  prepossession,  in- 
clined to  take  the  most  favourable  view  of  their 
leading  men  at  that  time,  found  something  in  their 
cimduct  not  to  his  taste.  He  had  some  reasons 
perhaps  for  <being  fastidious.  To  moderation,  good 
sense,  and  sterling  talents,  he  united  a  firmness  and 
rectitude  of  character  which  led  him  to  augur  ill 
of  a  country  where  what  he  considered  contrary 
qualities  prevailed  among  some  of  her  chief 
people,  as  the  following  extract  of  a  letter  to  Mr. 


RIGHT   HPN.  EDMUl^D  BURKE.  167 

(mw  Hmmi)  Smith,  written  soon  afterwards,  pretty 
j^ainly  evinoes-r- 

<<  Upon  this  prindple,  as  f ar  as  mjr  little  sphere 
exte^cls,  I  shall  act,  hecanse  I  think  the  time  requires 
it.  The  great  disorder  of  this  country  (Ireland) 
fH^eiQs  to  me  to  consist  in  the  complication  of  its 
politics ;  aiad  I  ohserve  a  very  dangerous  fluctuation 
md  unsteadiness  in  the  opinions  and  conduct  of  most 
of  its  public  men.  In  these  circumstances  it  seems 
to  me  to  be  every  man's  duty  to  give  a  determination 
to  hia  awn  principles  and  ccmduct,  which  if  every 
man  dofis^.some  order  will  soon  rise  out  of  the  {»«- 
aent  chaos.  For  one  I  mean  to  do  so ;  which  in- 
duces me  the  rather  to  desire  your  favourable  inter- 
pretation, if  I  cannot  obtain  your  active  co-opera- 
tion.'' 

In  the  spring  of  the  year  (SSrd  February)  died  Sir 
Joshua  Heynolds,  one  of  the  most  valued  friends  of 
the  subj^  of  this  memoir,  bequeathing  him,  in 
return  for  ttbe  trouble  of  executorship,  the  sum  of 
3,000/.  ai^d  also  cancelling  a  bond  for  the  same 
amount.  This  proof  of  regard  was  a  legacy  paid 
to  35  years  of  close  and  uninterrupted  intimacy,  in 
whkh  most  g£  their  friendships,  many  of  their  seiH 
tinaents  and  feelings  were  the  same.  A  rumour  has 
pretty  generally  {urevailed  that  tiie  President  was 
indebted  to  the  pen  of  Mr.  Burke  for  the  substance 
oi  his  celebrated  Lectures  on  Painting ;  but  of  this 
there  is  no  proof,  not  even  that  he  corrected  th^m, 
though  tiiis  common  act  of  friendship  is  not  impro- 
bable. There  is,  however,  little  doubt  of  t^e  artist 
having  profited  much  by  the  society,  and  by  those 
jmpremeditated,  yet  often  brilliant  effusions  of  an 


188  LIFE  OF  THS 

origiiial  and  vigorous  mind,  frequently  tkrown  out 
by  the  orator  upon  art  as  well  as  upon  general 
subjects,  traces  of  which  have  been  found  in  the 
lectures  by  some  of  those  staunch  literary  pointers 
whom  nothing  in  the  shape  of  coincidence  escapes^ 
though  after  all,  they  do  not  detract,  in  any  material 
degree,  from  the  painter's  merit  "  What  the  illus- 
trious Scipio  was  to  Lelius,"  says  Mr.  Malone,  *^  the 
all-knowing  and  all-accomplished  Burke  was  to  Rey- 
nolds/' A  passage  in  one  of  Bany's  letters  informs 
us  of  the  uses  to  which  an  able  artist  in  the  higher 
walk  of  his  profession  could  put  the  overflowings  of 
such  an  intellect,  scattered  around  as  they  were  with 
a  profusion  wjuch  rendered  the  recollection  of  his 
own  offspring  scarcely  probable:  but  it  is  only  a 
superior  mind  perhaps  that  can  make  such  use  of 
another  superior  mind. — ^Writing  from  Rome  he 
says — **  It  is  impossible  to  describe  to  you  what 
an  advantage  I  had  in  the  acquaintance  of  Mr. 
Burke;  it  was  a  preparative,  and  facilitated  my 
relish  for  the  beautiful  things  of  the  arts  here: 
and  I  will  affirm,  from  experience,  that  one  gentle- 
man of  a  literary  turn  and  delicate  feelings  for  the 
ideal,  poetical,  and  expressive  parts  of  the  art,  is 
likely  to  be  of  the  greatest  service  to  a  young  artist." 
Mr.  Burke  first  suggested  to  Sir  Joshua  the  well- 
known  picture  of  Ugolino ;  while  in  return  he  en- 
tertained so  favourable  an  opinion  of  the  painter's 
judgment  and  discrimination  as  a  philosopher 
as  to  submit  to  him  in  manuscript  the  Reflec- 
tions on  the  Revolution  in  France,  to  which  he 
gave  the  highest  praise.  Mr.  Burke  directed  the 
imposing  ceremonial  of  his  friend's  funeral;    but 


EIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURK£.  189 

when  at  die  conclusion  of  the  day  he  attempted  to 
return  thanks  in  the  council-room  in  the  name  of 
the  family,  to  the  Members  of  the  Royal  Academy 
for  the  attention  shown  to  the  remains  of  their  late 
President,  his  feelings  found  vent  only  in  tears,  for, 
unable  to  utter  a  word,  he  was  obliged  to  give  up 
the  attempt  after  several  fruitless  efforts.* 

A  character  of  the  deceased,  drawn  up  for  the 
newspapers  a  few  hoiu*s  after  his  death,  was  imme- 
diately  attributed  to  Mr.  Burke,  and  has  been  uni« 
versally  admired  for  that  felicity  of  thought  and 
elegance  of  diction  rarely  equalled  by  our  finest 
writers,  on  their  finest  subjects,  and  which,  on  a  topic 
where  he  felt  any  interest,  seems  ever  to  have  guided 
his  pen. — *^  It  is,"  says  the  learned  Seward,  "  the  eu- 
logium  of  Parrhasius  pronounced  by  Pericles — ^it  is 
the  eulogium  of  the  greatest  painter  by  the  most  con- 
summate orator  of  his  time."  Even  a  virulent  enemy 
terms  it  *'as  fine  a  portrait  as  Reynolds  ever  painted." 

^'  His  illness  was  long,  but  borne  with  a  mild  and 
cheerful  fortitude,  without  the  least  mixture  of  any 
thing  irritable  or  querulous,  agreeably  to  the  placid 
and  even  tenor  of  his  whole  life.  He  had,  from  the 
beginning  of  his  malady,  a  distinct  view  of  his  dis« 

*  He  became  guardian  to  Miss  Palmer,  Sir  Joshua's  niece  and 
heiress,  who  afterwards  was  Marchioness  of  Thomond.  When  the 
marriage  articles  were  brought  to  be  signed,  Mr.  Burke  addressed 
her  in  an  elegant  and  impressive  speech  applicable  to  her  intended 
change  of  condition,  which,  however,  agitated  her  so  much  as  to 
render  her  utterly  incapable  of  holding  the  pen.  Every  effatt 
was  made  to  calm  her  in  order  to  procure  the  signature,  but  in 
vain ;  all  his  soothing  powers  were  exerted  endearingly  and  perse- 
▼eringly  without  e£Pect ;  and  the  party  separated  for  the  time 
unable  to  accomplish  the  purpose  of  their  meeting. 


I90f  LIFE   OF  THB 

soltttieii;  and  he  cbntrtnplated  it  widi  that  entity 
composure,  whidi  notbiiig'bttt  th^  iAnotenrto,  inte^* 
nty,  and  tisefdlnesft  of  Us  •  life,  and  an  uliafiected 
submission  to  the  will  of  Proridenoe,  conML  beMow. 
In  this  situation  he  had  every  consolation  from 
fiuniljr  tendemessv  which  his  own  kinldness  to  his 
family  had  indeed  well  deserved. 

^  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  was,  on  very  many  ac- 
counts, one  of  the  most  memorable  men  of  his  time. 
H^'was  the  first  Englishman  who  added  the  prai^ 
of  the  el^ant  arts  to  the  other  glories  of  his  coun^ 
try.  In  taste,  in  grace,  in  facility,  in  happy  inven'*' 
tion,  and  in  the  richness  and  harmony  of  colouring, 
he  was  equal  to  the  great  masters  of  the'  renowned 
ages.  In  portrait  he  went  beyond  them;  for  he 
oommunicated  to  that  department  of  the  art  in 
which  English  artists  are  thd  most  engaged^  a  vknetf^ 
a  fancy,  and  a  dignity  derived  from  the  higher 
brandiies,  whidi  even  those  who  professed  them  in  a 
superior  manner  did  not  always  [nreserve  when  they 
delineated  individual  nature.  His  pcnrtraits  remind 
the- spectator  of  the  invention  of  history  and  of  the 
amenity  of  landscape.  In  painting  portraits  he  ap- 
pears not  to  be  raised-  upon  that  platform,  but  to  de* 
scend  to  it  from  a  higher  sphere.  His  paintings  il- 
lustrate his  lessons,  and  his  lessons  seem  to  have  been 
derived  from  his  paintings.  He  possessed  the  theory 
as  per£8Gtly  as  the  practice  of  his  art.  To  be  such  a 
pamteryhewBsaprofoundand  penetratingphiloBopher. 

'<  In  full  happiness  of  foreign  and  domestic  fame; 
admired  by  the  expert  in  art  and  by  the  learned  in 
science,  courted  by  the  great,  caressed  by  sovereign 
powers,  and  celebrated  by  distinguished  poets,  his 


BIGHT   BON.  EDMUND  BURKK.  191 

native  hunulitf,  modesty,  aad  caadaur  neYer.  for^ 
sook  him,  even  on  surprise  or  provocatioa ;  uMvam 
tbe  least  degree  of  arrogance  or  assumptkn  visible 
to  the  most  scnitinizing  eye  in  any  part  of :  his  com 
duct  or  discourse. 

**  His  talents  of  every  kind — ^powerfiil  ficoni 
nature,  and  not  n^anly  cultivated  by  letter»«— his 
social  virtues  in  all  the  relations  and  in  all.  the  habi-* 
tttdes  of  life,  rendered  him  the  centre  of  a  very 
great  and  unparalleled  variety  of  agreeable  societies, 
which  wiU  be  dissipated  by  his  death.  He  had  too 
much  merit  not  to  provoke  some  jealousy,  too  much 
innocence  to  provoke  any  enmity.  The  loss  of  no 
man  of  his  time  can  be  felt  with  more  sincere, 
general,  and  unmixed  sorrow. 

<<  HaU !  and  farewell !" 

The  legacy  bequeathed  by  Sir  Jodiua  was  not  a 
s^tary  instance  of  the  regard  entertained  for  Mr* 
Burke  by  his  friends.  Dr.  Brocklesby  accidentally 
hearing  he  was  pressed  by  some  temporary  diffi^ 
cttlty,  delicately  observed  that  as  a  slight  token  o£ 
remembrance  he  had  put  down  hia  name  in  his  wHl* 
for  1000/.  but  on  considering  there  would  be  more 
pleasuf e  in  becoming  his  own  executor,  he  had: 
resolved  to  anticipate  time  and  to  pay  the  money 
immediately ;  and  it  was  paid  acisordingiy. 

The  question  of  the  Slave  Trade  being,  discussed, 
in  Aprils  Mr.  Burke  forwarded  to  Mr.Dundas  a 
*^  Sketch  of  a  Negro  Code,"  which  he  had  drawn^upt 
in  1780,  when,  as  he  observes,  the  abolition,  however 
mudi  to  be  desired^-  seeming  altogeduesr  chimerical' 
on  account  of  the  strong  party  opposed  to.  i(^  he 
aimed  at  carrying  into  effect  the  next  best  remedies! 


198  LIFE  OF 

he  could  devise— -that  of  subjecting  the  trade  to  the 
strictest  possible  regulations,  and  hj  legislative 
enactmients  ameliorating  the  condition  of  the  slaves 
in,  and  to  be  brought  into,  the  islands.  On  this 
project,  much  inquiry,  consideration,  and  labour 
were  expended;  it  is  not  a  mere  draught  of  a 
common  act  of  Parliament,  but  an  extensive  system, 
coherent  in  its  parts  and  bearings,  and  does  honour 
to  the  benignant  spirit  of  its  author,  ever  active  in 
the  service  of  suffering  humanity. 

During  this  session  of  Parliament  he  exerted 
himself  less  than  on  most  former  occasions,  being 
now,  he  said,  a  worn-out  veteran  in  the  service, 
desirous  himself  to  retire,  and  only  coming  forward 
now  and  then  as  veterans  are  accustomed  to  do,  when 
the  garrison  of  the  constitution  is  exposed  to  open 
attack.  A  measure  which  he  considered  of  this 
nature  was  the  notice  of  a  motion  by  Mr.  Grey 
(80th  April,  1792),  for  Parliamentary  Reform, 
brought  forward  at  the  instigation  of  persons  who 
had  taken  that  measure  under  their  special  protec- 
tion and  assuming 'the  title  of  ^<  Friends  of  the 
Peoplg^"  This  association,  counting  among  its  mem- 
bers many  persons  of  consequence  in  and  out  of  par- 
liament, and  daily  increased  by  the  junction  of  mer- 
chants and  professional  and  literary  men  throughout 
thecountry,  hestigmatised  as  of  a  dangerous  tendency. 
'  The  object  at  which  tiiey  aimed,'  he  said,  'was  little 
better ;  the  motives  of  many  concerned  in  it  were 
doubtless  innocent,  but  the  way  they  went  to  work 
was  as  decidedly  wrong ;  the  sense  of  the  people 
had  not  been  in  the  least  declared  on  the  measure  ; 
no  specific  grievance  had  been  pointed  out,  no  spe- 


EIGHT  HON.  EDMtJND  &UB&E.  19f 

dfic  remedy  assigned,  and  without  these  wect 
explicitly  set  forth,  there  might  be  imiovation 
attempted,  but  it  would  not  be  reformation.  Sup* 
pose  a  design  of  this  nature  to  be  partially  begun^ 
did  any  member  of  the  society  who  gave  himself 
the  trouble  to  think  at  all,  imagine  it  would  8t<^ 
there,  or  that  it  would  be  possible  to  controul  its 
progress  ?  Our  House  of  Commons,  as  a  body,  might 
not  be  pure,  no  more  tihan  any  individual  member  of 
it  was  wholly  pure  from  sin,  frailty,  vice  or  folly  of 
some  description  or  another ;  yet  it  was  constituted 
perhaps  as  well  as  it  could  be,  as  well,  in  the  main, 
as  human  nature  would  permit  it  to  be.  At  any 
rate,  while  he  could  raise  a  voice  or  an  arm  to  pre*- 
vent  it,  it  should  never  assimilate  to  the  National 
Assembly.  In  that  body  there  were  700  members, 
400  of  whom  were  lawyers,  800  of  no  description 
that  he  could  name,  and  out  of  the  whole,  he 
believed  there  were  not  a  dozen  who  possessed  in 
any  one  way  a  hundred  pounds  per  annum.  Such 
might  be  the  perfection  of  representation  in  the  eyes 
of  some,  nay,  he  understood  it  to  be  the  opinion  of 
many  of  the  new  sect  in  politics,  but  he  trusted  to 
the  good  sense  of  the  people  of  England  never  to 
permit  such  a  mob,  nor  any  thing  resembling  it,  to 
usurp  the  sacred  office  of  their  legislature.' 

The  next  important  question  in  which  he  took 
part  was  on  the  motion  of  Mr.  Fox,  May  11th,  to 
repeal  certain  statutes,  bearing  upon  the  Unitarian 
body,  from  whom  that  gentleman  had  presented  a 
petition  to  that  effect  three  days  before.  An  outline 
of  this  clever  speech  seemingly  drawn  up  after  its 
delivery,  as  it  alludes  to  some  points  advanced  in 

VOL.  II.  o 


194  LIFE  OF  THE 

tke  debate,  iq^peara  in  his  works.*  He  oppoaed 
their  daims  on  the  ground  of  their  being  the  avowed 
enemies  of  the  church.  They  had  lately  accused 
themselves  of  a  disgraceful  timidity  with  respect  to 
the  concealment  of  their  sentiments,  and  now  they 
were  to  atone  for  that  timidity  by  an  extraordinary 
lM>ldnes8.  They  had  op^y  declared  their  hostility 
to  the  establishment.  They  had  confessed  their 
determination  to  propagate  their  doctrines.  They 
were  avowedly  a  society  for  the  propagation  of  ojn* 
nions  immediately  hostile  to  our  church-«-they  had 
incorporated  for  that  purpose — ^they  had  published 
pamphlets  with  that  view — ^they  had  raised  a  large 
fund  to  be  employed  in  that  service — they  had 
entered  into  a  solemn  compact  to  obtain  that  end — 
and  it  was  well  known  that  Dr.  Priestley  was  their 
patriarch.  He  went  on  to  urge  that  £rom  their  new 
lights  in  theology,  and  their  new  lights  in  politics, 
which  latter  had  been,  if  possible,  more  ostentatiously 
and  offensively  proclaimed  than  the  former,  they  did 
not  present  any  sufficient  claim  to  the  favourable 
consideration  of  the  House.  The  motion  was  lost 
by  142  to  63. 

The  proclamation  issued  some  time  afterwards 
against  seditious  writings  and  doctrines  elicited 
strong  symptoms  of  that  difference  of  opinion  among 
the  great  body  of  the  Opposition,  which  it  was  evi- 
dent must  soon  lead  to  a  disjunction  of  interests ; 
the  old  Whigs,  or  the  Duke  of  Portland's  friends, 
wholly  disagreeing  on  knost  topics  of  the  day  with 
the  necT,  or  the  fcrilowers  of  Mr.  Fox.    A  nominal 

*  Biifke'ft  Works,  vol.  x. 


BIGHT   HON.   EDMCNB   BURKE.  105 

ludon  indeed  still  existed  between  them  in  the 
Hoase.  But  the  dangers  of  the  country  becoming 
daily  more  apparent,  and  the  predictions  of  their 
more  ancient  ally  and  leader,  Mr.  Burke,  being  day 
after  day  verified,  impressed  a  gradual  and  general 
belief  in  that  connexion,  of  the  greater  prudence 
and  patriotism  of  following  his  opinions. 

In  the  mean  time,  some  whim  or  ill  humour  of 
the  Chancellor,  Lord  Thurlow,  inducing  him  to 
oppose  in  the  House  of  Lords  certain  measures  oi 
Mr.  Pitt,  the  latter  found  it  necessary  to  procure  his 
dismissal  from  office,  intimating,  soon  afterwards,  a 
desire  for  a  Idnction  with  the  Portland  party ;  and 
as,  in  such  a  season  of  apprehension,  it  was  desirable 
to  bring  all  the  talents  of  the  country  into  its  ser- 
vice, he  did  not  object  to  include  Mr.  Fox  among  the 
number.  The  latter  arrangement  was  particularly 
pressed  upon  the  Minister  by  Mr.  Burke,  who  also 
pressed  the  policy  of  acceding  to  it  upon  Mr.  Fox 
through  indirect  channels  ;  and  the  fact  is  honour- 
able to  his  candour,  his  patriotism,  and  even  his 
friendship ;  yet  as  another  specimen  of  the  spirit  of 
party  malevolence,  he  was  frequently  accused  at  the 
moment  while  thus  employed  of  being  that  gentle- 
man's personal  enemy.  Mr.  Fox,  however,  refused 
to  accede  to  the  proposition  unless  Mr.  Pitt  resigned 
the  head  of  the  Treasury,  when  they  might  better 
treat  upon  terms  of  perfect  equality  and  enter  the 
Cabinet  as  new  men— -a  piece  of  humility  not  justly 
to  be  expected  from  the  Minister,  or  perhaps  from 
any  other  man  holding  the  same  situation.  The 
negociation  consequently  for  the  present  proved 
fruitless ;  but  the  Prince  of  Wales  seeing  the  neces- 

oS 


108  LIFE  OF   THK 

eonvulsion  in  that  countiy,  "wvre  almost  beyond 
belief,  as  well  in  thinking,  in  writing,  in  debating,  in 
corresponding  upon  it  with  many  of  the  chief  per- 
sons in  Britain  and  in  Europe,  in  imparting  infor^ 
mation,  and  in  unwearied  diligence  in  procuring  it. 
For  the  latter  purpose  principally,  he  had  dispatched 
his  son  the  preceding  year,  with  the  knowledge  of 
government,  to  the  French  Princes  and  others 
assembled  at  Coblentz,  who  on  his  return  brought 
with  him  to  England  the  famous  M.  Cazales,  a  man 
of  superior  tal^its,  distinguished  in  the  National 
Assembly  as  the  chief  opponent  of  Mirabeau,  bat 
who^  like  most  other  persons  of  common  sense  and 
common  honesty,  found  it  necessary  soon  aft^  to 
consult  his  safety  in  emigration;  and  who  was 
further  remarkable  for  bearing  so  great  a  resemblance 
to  Mr.  Fox  as  to  have  been  mistaken  for  him  two  or 
three  times  in  the  streets  of  London.^  By  means  of 
his  son,  on  this  trip,  Mr.  Burke  also  opened  a  com* 
munication  with  some  of  the  Ministers  of  tlie 
Emperor  of  Austria  and  the  King  of  Prussia,  par- 
ticularly the  former,  suggesting  hints  for  quieting 
the  disorders  of  the  Netherlands  and  of  Hungary, 
and  alluding  to  those  of  France.  Some  additional 
communications,  written  and  verbal,  said  to  have 

*  This  gentleman  subsequenlly  flpent  much  of  has  time  at 
Butler's  Court,  and  evinced  warm  admiration  for  the  great  talents 
and  virtues  of  his  host  An  anecdote  told  of  him  on  his  first 
arrival  in  the  house,  used  to  be  afterwards  a  source  of  laughter 
and  amusement  to  himseif.  He  had  often  heaid  of  what  he  cdleA 
Tosi'h^  as  aleading  and  indispensalde  diaih  to  all  EngliAmcgn,  bat 
was  so  perfectly  ignorant  of  what  it  meant  that  he  took  u^  a  slice 
of  toast  at  breakfast,  paiLsed  for  some  time,  and  then  inquired 
whether  this  was  not  the  great  staple  of  an  English  stomach  of 
which  he  had  heard  so  much  f 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  109' 

been  made  by  him  to  Lord  OnenviUe  on  the  latter 
fertile  theme,  have  never  been  made  pubUe  i  but  his 
suggestions,  of  whatever  nature,  were  probably  not 
adopted,  his  views  differing  materially  on  many 
points  from  those  of  persons  in  oflSce. 

His  further  views  at  this  time  are  stated  in  the 
fdllowing  extract  of  a  letter  to  his  son  in  Dublin,-^ 
^*  I  am  now  in  town  trying  to  take  my  little  part  in 
measures  which  may  quiet  the  unhappy  divisions  of 
the  country,  and  enable  us  to  make  head  against  the 
common  enemy  of  the  human  race.  To  do  any 
good,  there  ought  to  be  a  general  cessation,  as  much 
as  may  be,  of  all  public  and  all  private  animosities ; 

and  first  the  R- ^1  f y  ought,  in  my  firm 

opinion,  in  this  question  of  the  very  existence  of 
monarchy,  as  a  basis,  to  be  reconciled  within  itself; 
the  next  is,  that  the  Opposition  should  be  reconciled 
to  the  Ministry;  and  that,  for  that  purpose,  its 
dissonant  parts  should  be  brought  to  some  agreed 
ment  if  possible— if  not,  that  the  well-intentioned 
should  be  separated  from  the  contagion  and  distrac- 
tion attendant  upon  an  apparent  connexion  with 
those  who,  under  the  false  colour  of  a  common  party, 
are  as  completely  separated  in  views  and  in  opinions 
as  the  most  adverse  and  factious  ever  have  been  or 
can  be :  the  last  part  of  the  plan  is,  that  there  should 
be  a  reconciliation  })etween  the  Catholics  and  Pro- 
testants of  Ireland." — In  all  these  plans  he  succeeded, 
but  in  the  last  the  least ;  either  because  government 
could  not  or  would  not  pursue  the  plan  he  had 
chalked  out,  on  account  probably  of  the  scruples  <^ 
the  King,  or  perhaps  the  equally  strong  obstacles 
presented  by  the  violent  antipathies  of  the  ruling 
piirty  in  Ireland  to  their  Roman  Catfadic  coun*^ 


800  LIFE  OF  THE 

trymeo.  Mr.  Pitt,  there  is  no  possible  doubt»  felt 
some  jealousy  of  appearing  to  be  too  much  guided 
by  his  advice,  for  fully  aware  of  his  enei^  and  re- 
sources of  mind  on  every  subject,  he  fancied  that  by 
adopting  his  suggestions,  he  should  be  only  inviting 
a  continuance  of  them,  which  might  possibly  bring 
him  too  much  under  the  influence  of  so  active  a 
coadjutor.  Yet  had  his  advice  been  fully  followed 
up  by  the  Minister  sanctioning  the  subsequent 
arrangements  made  by  Earl  Fitzwilliam,  there  is  a 
general  impression  among  the  best  informed  men  of 
that  Country  that  the  rebellion  woxQd  not  have  taken 
place. 

The  first  day  of  the  Session,  1792-3»  December 
ISth,  brought  him  forward  again,  **  not,"  he  said» 
<'  as  the  defender  of  Opposition,  or  of  Ministry,  but 
of  the  country."  Mr.  Fox  still  not  merely  retained 
but  enforced  with  a  warmth  that  astonished  and  oon« 
founded  many  of  his  most  devoted  admirers,  his 
former  opinions  as  to  the  quiet  state  of  the  coimtry, 
the  total  absence  of  any  spirit  in  It  hostile  to  the 
Constitution  or  Government,  and  asserted  that  the 
alarm  arose  from  the  artful  designs  and  practices  of 
Ministers ;  moving  an  amendment  to  the  address  to 
this  effect.  On  the  report  being  brought  up  the 
following  day,  he  again  proposed  an  amendment  to 
avert  the  calamities  of  war  with  France,  by  entering 
into  negodation  with  her  rulers*  This  Mr.  Burke 
replied  to  with  great  effect,  ui^ng  that  could  war  be 
avoided  it  were  advisable,  but  he  saw  a  spirit  at 
work  that  would  leave  them  no  option — that  he  could 
not  recognise  a  tittle  of  that  peaceful  spirit  which 
those  persons  were  stated  to  possess,  who,  without 
th^  formality  of  a  public  declaration,  were  as  hostilQ 


EIGHT  HON.  EBMtJND  BTTAEE.  SK)I 

to  the  government,  property,  and  respectability  of 
England  as  they  well  could  be ;  who  had  received  at 
the  bar  of  their  Convention  as  representatives  of  the 
English  people,  a  few  obscure  and  worthless  men, 
deputed  by  obscure,  nuschievous  societies ;  who  had 
passed  many  decrees  which  were  in  effect  declarations 
of  war  against  every  government,  and  who  had 
declared  their  determination  to  retain  their  new  con* 
quests  in  the  Netherlands,  which  it  seemed  to  be 
the  general  sentiment  in  the  House,  and  in  the 
country,  they  must  give  up.  Between  the  nations 
there  was  at  that  moment  a  moral  war,  which  must 
soon  become  an  actual  war. 

Uninfluenced  by  the  results  of  these  proposals^ 
Mr.  Foz  disregarding  the  general  feeling  of  the 
country  to  the  contrary,  brought  forward  on  the 
third  day  of  this  struggle  (15th  December),  a  motion 
for  sending  a  Minister  to  Paris,  to  treat  with  the 
Provisional  Government.  To  this  likewise  Mr. 
Burke  opposed  a  negative ;  and  took  the  opportunity 
of  pajring  a  handsome  compliment  to  the  discrimina- 
tion, good  sense,  and  sound  patriotism  of  the  present 
Earl  of  Liverpool,  who,  he  remarked,  though  young» 
did  not  permit  his  understanding  to  be  warped  by 
the  infatuation  of  the  day,  but  nobly  stood  forward 
to  resist  the  growing  evils.  In  him,  and  in  the  other 
promising  young  men,  his  friends,  by  whom  he  was 
accompanied,  he  was  happy  to  find  that  the  new 
doctrines  would  find  powerful  opponents.*    He  com* 

•  *  The  late  Lord  ETskine,  wHo  came  frequently  under  hia  lash, 
experienced  it  again  on  the  present  occasion.  ''  He  was  sorry  he 
could  not  say  the  same  of  the  learned  gentleman,  whose  speech 
they  had  just  heard^  who  always  instructed  that  House  as  the 
ancient  philosophers  did  their  pup3s>  hy  proposing  himself  as  their 


J 


908  LIFE   OF   THE 

plained  of  being  singled  out  for  acrimony  and  in- 
vective whenever  the  French  Revolution  was  men- 
tioned/ as  if  in  the  eyes  of  Opposition  he  had  com- 
mitted an  inexpiaible  crime  by  attacking  it.  He  de- 
fended Government  from  principle,  not  from  in- 
terest — ^'  For  strange  as  it  may  appear  (said  he)  to 
certain  gentlemen  who  now  think  unfavourably  of 
me ;  I  affirm  in  the  face  of  the  House  and  of  the 
country,  that  I  retain,  and  ever  will  retain,  my 
independence." 

The  sentiments  uttered  by  Mr.  Fox  on  these 
occasions,  and  the  pertinacity  with  which  the  line  of 
conduct  dictated  by  them  was  pursued,  gave  much 
offence  to  many  of  the  Opposition,  who  were  either 
less  personally  attached  to  him  than  others,  whose 
opinions  had  undergone  a  change,  or  who,  like  Burke^ 
preferred  the  performance  of  a  great  public  duty  to 
any  private  consideration  whatever.  Among  these 
was  Lord  Sheffield,  who,  from  partiality  to  Mr.  Fox, 
or  from  not  percdving  at  first  to  what  his  opinions 
tended,  it  will  be  remembered  was  a  principal  cause 
of  the  rupture  with  Mr.  Burke ;  he  now  went  so 
far  as  to  say,  that  he  was  ashamed  of  ever  having 
^tertained  any  enthusiasm  for  the  right  honourable 
mover  of  sudi  a  measure  as  that  now  recommended. 

example.  Concerning  the  law^  the  constitution^  or  the  govern- 
ment of  France^  the  learned  gentleman  indeed  had  said  nothing : 
he  was  rights  for  France  had  no  law^  no  government^  no  oonsti- 
tntion^  and  therefore  he  was  very  properly  silent ;  but  although 
the  French  had  none^  the  learned  gentlexoan  had  a  great  deal  of 
law,  a  great  deal  of  government  of  himself,  and  an  excellent  con- 
stitution. But  being  a  general  lover  of  new  constitutions  and 
enthusiastically  fond  of  projectors,  he  was  not  surprised  at  hi& 
having  undertaken  to  plead  the  cause  of  Citisen  Paine^" 


KI6HT   HON.  £DMITKD  BURKE.  iO$ 

Others,  if  less  strong,  were  not  less  explicit  or  loud 
in  tbeir  terms  of  disapprobation. 

While  the  opinions  of  Mr.  Burke  continued  thus 
to  gain  ground  even  in  the  camp  of  his  opponents, 
an  incident  which  occurred  at  this  time  turned  their 
attention  for  a  moment  from  his  matter  to  his.man- 
ner.  A  bill  was  introduced  for  the  regulation  of 
Aliens,  in  favour  of  which  he  made  a  long  and  able 
speedi  (28th  December),  on  the  principle  that  the 
Hiinisters  of  a  monarchy  could  not  and  ought  not  to 
have  their  hands  tied  behind  them,  whUe  the 
emissaries  of  republicanism,  regicide,  and  atheism, 
poured  into  their  country  with  the  design  to  destroy 
it,  and  yet  be,  by  the  weakness  of  the  law,  secure 
from  controul ;  and  further,  that  war  being  probably 
at  hand,  he  could  not  reconcile  it  to  himself  to  give 
to  the  servants  of  the  crown  now  a  layer  of  sup- 
port, and  now  a  layer  of  opposition,  but  sys- 
tematically to  aid  a  measure  which  only  formed 
part  of  a  system  of  measures  conscientiously  meant 
to  benefit  the  country  by  warning  off  it,  and  out  of  it, 
murderers  and  atheists ;  enemies  to  church  and  state ; 
to  religion  and  God ;  to  morality  and  happiness. 

In  conunenting  upon  a  decree  of  the  Convention, 
by  which  the  system  of  fratemieing  was  indirectly  to 
be  propagated  by  the  sword,  he  mentioned  the  cir- 
cumstance of  three  thousand  daggers  having  been 
bespoke  at  Birmingham,  of  which  seventy  had  been 
delivered,  and  as  a  tangible  illustration  of  his  state- 
ment and  argument,  drew  forth  a  concealed  one 
which  he  flung  indignantly  upon  the  floor  of  the 
House.  "  7%f>,"  said  he,  pointing  to  the  weapon, 
**  is  what  you  are  to  gain  by  an  alliance  with  France; 


204  LIFE  OF  THE 

^erever  their  principles  are  introduced,  their  prac* 
tice  must  follow :  you  must  equally  proscribe  their 
tenets  and  their  persons  from  our  shores/'  His 
speech  upon  the  occasion  produced  considerable  effect 
upon  the  House.  Whether  this  unusual  peroration, 
so  completely  *^  suiting  the  action  to  the  word/'  was 
in  such  good  taste,  may  admit  of  some  doubt,  though 
certainly  well  calculated,  as  he  meant  it  should,  to 
draw  universal  notice,  and  possibly  to  impress  the 
most  inconsiderate  with  a  sense  of  the  danger 
accruing  from  intercourse  with  the  emissaries  of  the 
desperate  faction  which  ruled  France.  On  the  other 
hand,  his  political  opponents  termed  it  a  vile  oratori- 
cal flourish,  a  theatrical  pantomimic  trick,  unworthy 
of  a  great  orator,  who  could  by  other  and  more 
legitimate  means  command  the  attention  and  sym- 
pathies of  the  House;  but  the  vehemence  of  the 
censure  it  provoked,  only  proved,  as  his  friends 
remarked,  the  effect  it  was  believed  likely  to  produce 
in  the  country. 

.  The  course  of  nature  (as  well  as  the  unhappy 
politics  of  the  time),  was  now  exacting  from  him 
the  hardest  tax  perhaps  which  age  has  to  pay,  that  of 
seeing  our  friends  gradually  dropping  into  the  grave 
around  us,  without  our  possessing  that  activity  or 
elasticity  of  spirit  necessary  to  form  and  cement  new 
connexions.  Shortly  before  this  period,  he  had  lost 
his  early  friend  Mr.  Shackleton,  whose  occasional 
visits  and  letters  kept  alive  that  ardour  of  affection 
with  whidi  the  associates  of  our  youth  are  regarded 
in  every  subsequent  period  of  life,  and  never  per- 
haps so  tenderly  as  when  from  increasing  infirmity 
their  tenure  of  life  becomes  daily  more  precarious* 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  205 

To  the  letter  of  Mrs.  Leadbeater  announcing  the 
event,  he  wrote  the  following  reply,  dated  September 
8th,  1792  :— 

Mt  dear  MaDam, 

"  After  some  tears  on  the  truly  melancholy  event 
of  which  your  letter  gives  me  the  first  account,  I  sit 
down  to  thank  you  for  your  very  kind  attention  to 
me  in  a  season  of  so  much  and  so  just  sorrow  to 
yourself.  Certainly  my  loss  is  not  so  great  as  yours, 
who  constantly  enjoyed  the  advantage  and  satis- 
faction of  the  society  of  such  a  companion,  such  a 
friend,  such  an  instructor,  and  such  an  example: 
yet  I  am  penetrated  with  a  very  sincere  aiSliction ; 
for  my  loss  is  great  too.  I  am  declining  or  rather 
declined  in  life,  and  the  loss  of  friends,  at  no  time 
very  reparable,  is  impossible  to  be  repaired  at  all  in 
this  advanced  period.  His  annual  visit  had  been  for 
some  years  a  source  of  satisfaction  that  I  cannot 
easily  express.  He  had  kept  up  the  fervour  of 
youthful  affections ;  and  his  vivacity  and  cheerfid- 
ness,  which  made  his  early  days  so  pleasant,  con- 
tinued the  same  to  the  last ;  the  strictness  of  his 
virtue  and  piety  had  nothing  in  it  of  morose  or 
austere ;  and  surely  no  life  was  better,  and  (it  is  a 
comfort  for  us  to  add)  more  happily  spent  than  his. 
I  knew  hun  from  the  boyish  days  in  which  we  began 
to  love  each  other. 

'^  His  talents  were  great,  strong,  and  various : 
there  was  no  art  or  science  to  which  they  were  not 
sufficient  in  the  contemplative  life ;  nor  any  employ- 
ment that  they  would  not  more  than  adequately  fill 
in  the  active.     Though  his  talents  were  not  without 


S06  LIFE  OF   THE 

that  ambition  which  generally  aocompanies  great 
natural  endowments,  it  was  kept  imder  by  great 
wisdom  and  temperance  of  mind ;  and  though  it  was 
his  opinion  that  the  exercise  of  virtue  was  more 
easy,  its  nature  more  pure,  and  its  means  more 
certain  in  the  walk  he  chose,  yet  in  that  the  activity 
and  energy  which  formed  the  character  of  his  mind 
were  very  visible.  Apparently  in  a  private  path  of 
life,  his  spirit  was  public.  You  know  how  tender  a 
father  he  was  to  children  worthy  of  him  by  their 
genius  and  their  virtue ;  ***  yet  he  extended  him- 
self more  widely ;  and  devoted  a  great  part  of  his 
time  to  that  society,  of  no  mean  extent,  of  which  the 
order  of  the  Divine  Providence  had  made  him  a 
member.  With  a  heart  far  from  excluding  others, 
he  was  entirely  devoted  to  the  ben^t  of  that  society, 
and  had  a  zeal  very  uncommon  for  every  thing 
which  regarded  its  welfare  and  reputation;  and 
when  he  retired,  which  he  did  wisely  and  in  tame, 
from  the  worthy  occupation  which  he  filled  in  a 
superior  manner,  his  time  and  thoughts  were  given 
to  that  object.  He  sanctified  his  family  benevolence, 
his  benevolence  to  his  society,  and  to  his  friends, 
and  to  mankind,  with  reference  in  all  things  to  diat 
Supreme  Being,  without  which  the  best  dispositions 
and  the  best  teaching  will  make  virtue,  if  it  can  be  at 
all  attained,  uncertain,  poor,  hard,  dry,  cold,  and 
comfortless. 

^'  Indeed  we  have  had  a  loss.  I  console  mjnself 
under  it  by  going  over  the  virtues  of  my  old  friend, 
of  which  I  believe  I  am  one  of  the  earliest  witnesses, 
and  the  most  warm  admirers  and  lovers.  Believe 
me  this  whole  family  who  have  adopted  my  interest 


BIOHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  907 

in  my  excellent  departed  friend,  are  deeply  toudied 
with  our  common  loss,  and  sympathize  with  you 
most  sincerely.  My  son  is  just  arrived  in  Dublin. 
My  vrife  is  not  very  well,  and  is  preparing  for.  a 
journey  to  Bath,  which  I  trust  will  re-establish  her. 
My  brother,  who  will  hear  this  news  with  a  sorrow 
equal  to  mine,  is  now  at  Cheltenham  for  the  benefit 
of  the  waters. — ^Compose  yoiurself,  my  dear  Madam, 
you  have  your  work  to  do.  *  *  *  Pray  remember 
me  to  the  gentleman  I  have  not  the  honour  of  know- 
ing, but  whose  happiness  you  make.  Thank  for 
me  my  worthy  firiend  Abraham  for  his  good-natured 
letter,  and  beg  him  to  consider  it  as  answered  in 
this.  I  hope  you  will  assure  my  dear  friend  Mrs. 
Shackleton,  the  worthy  wife  of  my  late  invaluable 
friend,  that  we  sympathize  cordially  in  all  she  feels; 
and  join  our  entreaties  to  yours  that  she  will  pre- 
serve to  you  as  much  as  possible  of  the  friend  and 
parent  you  have  lost." 

The  war  which  he  had  so  long  predicted  as  in- 
evitable was  now  at  hand,  precipitated  perhaps  by 
the  opening  of  the  Scheldt,  by  the  promise  of  assist- 
ance from  the  National  Convention  to  all  people  who 
should  wish  to  throw  off  the  tyranny  of  Kings,  and 
particularly  by  the  execution  of  Louis  XVI.  Mr. 
Burke,  however,  was  not  pleased  with  the  assign- 
ment of  the  former  motive,  deeming  it  weak  in  com- 
pariscm  with  some  others. — **  A  war  for  the  Scheldt!" 
exclaimed  he  in  his  forcible  phraseology  as  soon  as  it 
was  mentioned ;  "  A  war  for  a  cham — rr  p — t !" — 
War  at  this  moment  however  was  no  longer  matter 
of  choice  with  the  ministry,  being  formally  declared 


SOB  LIFE  OF  TH£ 

against  England  by  the  Republic  on  the  Ist  of 
February.  The  propriety  and  the  necessity  of  it 
on  our  part,  were  already  acknowledged  by  the  old 
Whigs,  who  thus  became  separated  by  a  distinct  line 
of  political  feeling  and  conduct  from  Mr.  Fox,  leaving 
him  not  only  much  reduced  in  numbers  in  Parlia- 
ment, but  greatly  impaired  in  moral  strength  of 
character,  and  in  political  credit  in  the  general 
opinion  ;  for  his  remaining  friends,  though  unques- 
tionably men  of  talents,  possessed  not,  in  more  than 
one  sense,  the  confidence  of  the  country. 

It  must  always  be  matter  of  surprise  to  numbers, 
and  of  regret  to  many,  how  that  eminent  man  could 
so  perseveringly  resist  and  condemn  a  measure  which 
was  in  itself  unavoidable,  and  which  was  supported 
by  the  general,  and  as  it  proved  in  the  result  the 
just,  judgment  of  the  country,  or  how  he  could 
have  acted  otherwise  than  Mr.  Pitt  did  act,  had  he 
himself  been  Minister.  It  may  be  possible,  however, 
that  had  Mr.  Pitt  led  the  Opposition,  the  spirit  so 
inherent  in  poUtical  rivalry  would  have  induced  him 
to  do  just  as  Mr.  Fox  did ;  or  in  other  words,  that 
with  the  difference  of  men,  the  results  to  the  country 
would  have  been  precisely  similar.  In  saying  this 
no  reflection  is  for  a  moment  insinuated  against  the 
strict  integrity  of  principle  of  either ;  but  we  are  all, 
even  the  wisest  and  the  best  intentioned  of  men,  the 
creatures  of  circumstances.  It  is  therefore  utterly 
impossible  for  the  most  conscientious  statesman  that 
ever  lived,  to  view  with  the  same  degree  of  favour 
or  through  the  same  medium,  measures  originated 
by  himself,  or  by  those  to  whom  he  is  politically  op- 
posed ;  or  to  estimate  public  affairs  and  measures  by 


EIGHT   HON.   EDMtJND   BURKE.  209 

the  same  standard;  whether  hie- be  in,  or  whether  but 
of  power.  Had  Mr.  Foic  been  in  office  at  this  time>  his 
viewSyhis  feelings,  his  prejudices,  his  judgnient, would 
have  certainly  differed,  with  thfe  difference  of -his  pub- 
lic relations  to  the  government ;  his  anxieties  would 
have  been  greater,  and  his  apprehensions  more 
easily  excited ;  his  penetration  more  sharp  and 
sensitive  by  the  very  weight  of  his  charge  ;  he  could 
scarcely  have  seen  or  heard,  it  may  be  said,  with  the 
same  eyes  and  ears,  as  when  at  the  head  of  the 
Opposition;  and  all  this  without  any  sacrifice  of 
principle.  The  workings  of  the  mind,  arising  from 
heavy  responsibility,  nearer  views,  better  informa- 
tion, and  more  direct  contact  with  the  machinery  of 
the  state,  and  of  the  real  rather  than  the  ostensible 
grounds  of  its  proceedings,  are  so  imperceptible  very 
often  in  dieir  operation,  that  a  statesman  is  often 
wound  gradually  round  from  the  opinions  he  may 
have  formerly  entertained  to  others  of  a  different 
description,  almost  without  being  aware  of  the 
change,  and  is  sometimes  surprised,  and  sometimes 
indignant,  when  told  he  is  inconsistent  with  himself. 
This  allowance  ought  to  be  made  for  all  public  men, 
though  it  is  one  which  is  generally  denied  them. 
X  Mr.  Pitt,  it  is  perfectly  certain,  no  more  than 
Mr.  Fox,  had  no  great  appetite  for  war.  His  glories 
had  been  hitherto  peculiarly  of  the  peaceful^cctst,  his 
popularity  was  acquired  in  a  state  of  prosperity  and 
tranquillity.  War  might  destroy,  but  was  hot  likely 
to  add  to  them.  His  interest  therefore  Was  to  avoid 
hostilities ;  and  so  well  did  he  know  this  and  desire 
by  all  the  means  in  his  power  to  accomplish  it,  that 
be  could  not  be  brought  to  believe  what  Mr.  Burke 

VOL.   II.  p 


810  LIFE  OF  THE 

had  repeatedly  told  him  almost  constantly  for  two 
years  before^  that  war  must  ultimately  ensue.  Far 
from  precipitating  that  erent  therefore  he  pushed  it 
off  until  the  very  last  moment,  when,  in  fact,  there 
was  no  alternative  left  him. 

» 

How  Mr.  Fox,  placed  in  the  same  situation,  could 
have  avoided  the  storm,  it  is  impossible  to  con- 
jecture. He  was  above  all  state  quackery,  and  never 
professed  to  have  discovered  any  infallible  nostrum 
by  which  to  subject  raging  political  madmen,  whe^ 
ther  at  home  or  abroad,  to  the  dominion  of  quiet  and 
reason.  He  was,  indeed,  in  many  respects  an  easy 
man,  a  friendly  liian,  an  illustrious  man,  with  great 
capacity  of  head,  and  much  of  the  milk  of  humaa 
kindness  in  his  heart,  but  the  foreign  race  of  revcH 
lutionists  showed  no  particular  attention  to  indi* 
vidual  character  except  in  cutting  off  the  heads  of 
those  who  enjoyed  it,  and  there  is  no  reason  to 
believe  that  their  disciples  here  would  have  been 
more  merciful ;  a  sentence  which  would  have  been 
pronounced  the  moment  he  interfered  with  any  part 
of  their  system  of  confusion,  having  firsts  in  order 
the  more  effectually  to  accomplish  it,  made  him  their 
dupe. 

Admitting,  however,  that  his  vigilance  on  this 
point  was  greater  than  he  avowed,  it  is  not  impro* 
bable  ttant,  as  Minister  at  this  moment,  he  might 
have  parleyed  a  little  longer  with  th^  Republic ; 
he  might  have  withheld  some  of  our  reasonable 
demands  ;  he  might  have,  for  the  forlorn  hope  of 
peace,  overlooked  slighter  affronts;  he  might  still 
have  tolerated  the  revolution^  and  constitutional,  and 
corresponding.societies,  and  their  innumerable  a^i«- 


RIGHT   KON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  lilll 

tioiis ;  he  might  hiire  submitted  sobm  time  longer  to 
daily  importatiGtas  of  the  emissaries  and  porincipled 
of  anarchy;  bat  as  the  demands  on  bis  patience 
rose»  so  even  bis  concessions  loiust  have  bad  an  end« 
With  all  his  partialities  to  popular  licence,  he  inuptr^ 

have  discovered  to  what  these  abuses  of  it  telS^edi 

I. 

He  could  not  have  trifled  with  the  quick  discem^rat 
of  the  late  King-,  whose  decision  in  momentk  of 
alarm  has  never,  perhaps,  been  rated  at  its  due  value. 
He  could  not  have  resisted  the  deliberate  conviction 
of  his  co-adjutors  in  office,  and  especially  of  the 
great  Whig  families,  the  supporters  and  partners  of 
his  fame  fDr  so  many  years ;  and  least  of  all,  could 
he  hare  withstood,  as  Minister,  th^  intuitive  saga* 
city,  the  prophetic  warnings  so  constantly  fulfilled, 
the  dear  views,  and  conclusive  reasonings  of  Mr« 
Burke;  though  as  leader  of  Opposition  his  pride 
shrunk  from  acquiescing  in  any  thing  which  implied 
tadt  deference  to  the  measures  of  Mr.  Pitt.  That 
war  woiild  therefore  have  ensued  had  even  he  been 
at  the  helm,  it  is  impossible  to  doubt ;  that  he  would 
have  conducted  it  difierently  may  be  probable ;  that 
it  would  have  been  better  conducted  is  at  best  but 
matter  of  opinion.  But  there  is  some  ground  to 
fear  that  it  might  have  been  delayed  until  the  enemy 
had  gained  more  ground  and  more  proselytes  \  tmtil 
the  situation  of  the  allied  powers  had  become  more 
precarious;  until  the  throne  and  the  constitution 
Were  beginning  to  totter  under  outrageous  assaults ; 
and  consequently  imtil  our  means  of  defence  had 
been  weakened. 

When  Mr.  Pitt  brought  down  the  King^s  message 
regarding  the  declaration  of  war  by  France,  and  Mr< 

p  2 


.^ 


212  LIFE   OP   THE 

Fox  on  the  following  day  (12th  of  February)  moved 
an  amendment  to  the  address,  weakening  its  force, 
Mr.  Burke  gave  it,  judging  by  the  outline  which 
remains  of  thesjpeech,  a  triumphant  reply.  Touch- 
ing on  the  singular  care  of  Mr.  Fox's  friends,  that 
not,  an  idea,  or  a  merit  of  any  kind  belonging  to 
him  should  be  lost  to  the  public,  a  peculiarity  which 
strikes  every  reader  of  political  history  during  his 
career,  he  turned  this  fact  to  accoimt,  on  an  observa- 
tion made  by  Mr.  Fox. 

*^  The.right  honourable  gentleman  had  complained 
bitterly  of  the  misrepresentation  of  his  expressions 
in  that  House.  To  him  it  appeared  very  extra^ 
ordmary  how  a  person  of  talents  so  clear,  so  power- 
ful, and  so  perspicuous  could  possibly  be  misunder- 
stood— ^how  a  person  who  took  so  much  pains  by 
repetition,  and  going  over  the  same  grounds  again 
and  again  to  bring  his  superior  powers  to  the  low 
level  of  the  vulgar  eye,  could  possibly  be  subject  to 
misrepresentation — ^how  a  gentleman  whose  friends 
out  of  doors  neglected  no  hmnan  art  to  display  his 
talents  to  their  utmost  advantage,  and  to  detail  his 
speeches  to  the  public  in  such  a  manner,  that*  he, 
though  a  close  observer  of  the  right  honourable 
gentleman,  had  never  been  able  to  recollect  a  single 
idea  of  his  that  had  escaped  the  industrious  atten- 
tion of  his  friends,  while  those  of  a  right  honourable 
friend  of  his  (Mr.  Windham),  whose  abilities  were 
equalled  by  his  virtues,  were  so  mangled  and  so 
confused  in  the  reports  that  were  made  of  them,  as 
to  be  utterly  unintelligible  to  the  public."  *  *  *  ♦ 
"  The  right  honourable  gentleman  had.  said  that  he 
hoped  he  was  not  reputed  an  advocate  fojr  France. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  21 S 

To  this  he  would  8ay»  tbat  if  the  cause,  of  France 
was  an  honest  cause,  it  was  justice  to  this  country, 
and  to  mankind,  to  undertake  her  defence.  The  true 
skill  of  .an  advocate  was,  to  put  forward  the  strong 
part  of  his  client's  case,  and  gloss  over  and  hide  the 
weak.;  to  exhibit  all  its  right  in  the  brightest  point 
of  view,  and  palliate  the  wrong }  when  he  could  no 
longer  palliate,  to  contrive  that  tlie  punishment 
should  be  as  slight  as  possible^  or  to  bring  his  writ 
of  error,  and  by  every  quirk  evade  it  as  well. as  he 
could ;  and  no  man  possessed  that  power  in  a  greatei: 
degree  than  the  right  honoiirable  gentleman.  To 
his  .speeches  he  always  attended  with  admiration 
and  respect.  That  which  he  had  just  heard. he 
Qoujd  not  help  estimating  less  highly,  seeing  that  he 
had  read  every  part  of  it  in  Brissot's  speeches  in 
the  National  Convention,  one  part  only  excepted, 
and  that  was  the  part  in  which  the  right  honourable 
gentleman  had  asserted  **  that  France  had  used  every 
means  to  conciliate  the  regards  and  good  will  of 
Great  Britain." 

Adverting  to  the  war,  and  his  own  opinion  on 
that  head  for  some  time  past,  he  said — ^war  was  no 
common  matter,  no  pastime  for  occupying  the  atten-^ 
tion  of  a  party,  to  be  inconsiderately  taken  up  or  put 
down  at  pleasure.  In  a  case  of  such  importance  to 
this  country  and  to  mankind  as  the  present  was, 
gentlemen  should  examine  whether  they  had  any 
sinister  motive,  as  if  they  were  in  the  divine  pre- 
sence, and  act  upon  the  pure  result  of  such  exa- 
mination. He  declared  he  had  no  hesitation  to  pro- 
nounce, as  if  before  that  presence,  that  Ministers 
had  not  precipitated  the  nation  into  war,  but  were 


tl4  LIFK  OF  T|I& 

farooght  intQ  it  by  oTeiwruling  neoessitjr.  ^  I  possess 
as  deep  a  sense  of  the  severe  inflictions  ^  ww  as 
any  man  can  possibly  do. 


C€ 


Trembling  I  touch  it,  but  with  honest  seal.' 


I  alirays  held  it  as  ooe  of  the  last  of  evils,  and 
wish  only  to  adopt  it  now  Arom  the  conviction  that 
at  no  distant  period  we  shall  be  obliged  to  encounter 
it  at  a  much  greater  disadvantage.  For  four  years 
past  it  has  grieved  me  to  the  soul,  it  has  almost 
leduoed  me  to  death,  when  I  observed  how  things 
were  going  on,  and  felt  my  utmost  exertiox»  unable 
to  produce  upon  the  government  of  the  country,  or 
la  the  public  mind,  a  conviction  of  the  danger  that 
approached  them.  At  length  the  infatuation  was 
removed — ^Ministers  awoke  to  the  peril  that  awaited 
thenx  ere  it  was  too  late.**  ♦  *  ♦  «  J3>  readily 
aBc^wed  that  this  was  the  most  dangerous  war  we 
were  ever  engaged  in ;  that  we  had  to  contend  with 
a  set  of  men  now  enured  to  warfare,  and  led  on  by 
enthusiasm  and  the  ardour  of  conquest  to  such  a 
degree  that  they  bartered  the  arts,  commerce,  indus- 
try, manufactures,  and  civilisation  itself,  for  the 
sword."  The  latter  passage  is  chiefly  remarkable 
for  exhibiting  the  wholly  different  view  of  the 
nature  of  the  war  which  he  entertained  from  the 
lifinister,  who  now  as  for  years  afterwards,  main- 
tained that  it  was  a  war  of  little  danger  to  oimselves, 
that  it  would  not  continue  long,  and  the  event  be 
not  at  all  doubtful. 

Six  days  afterwards  (February  18th)  Mr.  Fox 
Inrought  forward  five  resolutions  condemnatory  of 
t^he  war,  and  of  the  principles  on  which  it  wan 


RIGHT   HONv   BDMUND  BURKE.  215 

imdertJdcen,  which  Mr.  Bnrice  again  opposed  with 
all  his  powers.  At  the  condusion  of  his  speedi,  he 
presented  the  current  doctrines  of  the  day  in  a  new  as- 
pect-— "  Gentlemen,"  he  said, "  who  were  so  charmed 
with  the  lights  of  this  new  philosophy,  might  say 
that  age  had  rendered  his  eyes  too  dim  tx>  percdve 
the  glorious  blaze.  But  old  though  he  was,  he  saw 
well  enough  to  distinguish  that  it  was  not  the  light 
of  heaven,  but  the  Hght  of  rotten  wood  and  stinking 
fish-^-Ihe  gloomy  sparklii^  of  collected  filth,  corrup- 
tion, and  putrefaction. 

<'  So  have  I  seen  in  larder  dark. 

Of  Teal  a  sparUing  loin, 
R^ete  with  many  a  brilliant  gpark^ 
As  sage  plulosopliers  remark. 

At  once  both  stink  and  shine.'* 

In  the  debate  on  Mr.  Sheridan's  motion,  brought 
forward  March  4,  relative  to  the  existence  of  sedi- 
tious practices  said  to  prevail  in  the  country,  an 
altercation  productive  of  some  warm  words  arose 
between  Mn  Fox  and  Mr«  Burke,  on  a  contradiction 
given  by  the  former  to  some  statements  made  by  the 
latter,  of  which  he  said  he  had  proofis  in  his  pos- 
session, respecting  the  Princess  Lamballe  and  M% 
Egalite  (Duke  of  Orleans).  To  another  insinuatioB 
made  by  Mr.  Fox,  that  he  himself  was  deserted  by  his 
party  from  their  weariness  of  travelling  so  long  in  the 
barren  track  of  opposition,  Burke  replied  that  ^*  the 
new  track  through  which  he  had  called  upon  them 
to  follow  him  was  no  common  waste,  but  the  bar- 
renest  of  the  barren — ^the  desarts  of  Arabia.  Bui 
if  a  caravan  travelling  through  those  desarts  should 
fyoA  that  th?ir  leader*  from  passion  or  obstinacy,  had 


216  L1F£  OF  THE 

wandemL  ftom  the  right  rand,  and  that  by  foUowii^ 
him  they  were  in  danger  of  being  attacked  by  some 
plundering  Sheik,  they  might  be  allowed  to  think  a 
little  of  their  own  safety,  and  take  measures  for 
securing  it 

.  ^  He  could  say  for  himself  that  he  had  deserted 
no  party ;  and  that  of  those  with  whom  he  had 
been  accustomed  to  act,  there  was  not  one  that 
differed  from  him  in  opinion  on  the  present  state  of 
affairs,  or  disapproved  of  a  single  vote  he  had  given 
in  the  course  of  the  present  session.  Tliose  who  had 
incidentally  joined  that  party  by  the  tvay,  had  no 
daim  upon  him.  As  the  right  honourable  gentleman 
had  learned  f¥om  Dr.  Price  the  doctrine  of  cashiering 
Kings,  he  presumed  he  would  admit  that  leaders  of 
parties,  when  they  did  wrong,  might  likewise  be 
cashiered.  If  the  leader  should  seem  to  consider 
the  party  as  made  only  for  him,  instead  of  con- 
sidering himself  as  but  a  part  of  it ;  if  he  shoYdd 
adopt  a  line  of  conduct  without  consent  or  consulta- 
tion ;  if  he  should  make  speeches  and  motions  as  if 
he  meant  to  say  *  you  dislike  what  I  did  to-day — ^I 
will  do  more  to-morrow ;  if  you  disapprove  of  What 
I  do  to-morrow,  worse  awaits  you  the  day  after 
that,'  it  might  then  be  supposed  that  the  party  was 
at  liberty  to  leave  him." 

The  Traitorous  Correspondence  bill  (March  22d) 
produced  two  speeches  from  him  in  its  support,  in 
the  first  of  which  he  denoimced  several  of  thie  clubs 
of  France  who  had  assailed  his  name  with  threats 
arid  obloquy.  He  also  noticed  part  of  a  speech  from 
a  member  of  the  National  Convention,  Citizen  La- 
source,  who  laments  that — *^  The  moment  is  not  yet 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  217 

arrived  in  which  may  he  seen  at  the  har  of  the  rero- 
lutionary  tribunal,  that  Orestes  of  the  British  Par- 
liament, the  madman  Burke,  that  insolent  Lord 
Grenville,  or  that  plotter  Pitt.  But  the  moment  is 
arrived  in  which  the  public  have  smnmoned  them  to 
the  bar  of  their  opinion.  The  moment  is  arrived  in 
which  they  are  consigned  to  the  detestation  of  all 
nations  whose  execrations  and  anathemas  they,  so 
richly  deserve — scourges  of  the  earth,  and  vulture? 
preying  upon  the  vitals  of  the  people,  they  have 
failed  not  to  scatter  their  crimes  and  their  gold  to 
distract  a  natilon  which  they  despaired  of  being  able 
to  conquer  .*  ♦  *  *  *.  Soon  shall  they  be  laid 
prostrate' before  the  altar  of  liberty,  from  which  they 
shall  rise  only  to  mount  the  scaffold  that  awaits 
them,  and; to  es^iate  by  their  deaths  the  evils  in 
which,  ihey  have  involved  thie  human  race." 
r  The  second  speiech  (9th  April)  was  exceedingly 
able  and  argumentative,  by  far  the  best  delivered 
updnthe  ocQasion.  Touching  on  the  supposed  injury 
to  commerce,'  he  said,  **  England  was  a  commercial 
nation — so  was  every  other,  as  far  as  it  could.  But 
if  by  commercial  nation  it  was  implied  that  commerce 
was  her  ultimate,  her  only  end,  he  would  deny  it ; 
her  commerce  was  a  subservient  instrument  to  her 
greater  interests,  her  security,  her  honour,  and  her 
religion.  If  the  commercial  spirit  tended  to  break 
those,  he  insisted  that  it  should  be  lowered.'^  «  «  «  « 
<*  Let  us  not  turn  our  every  thing,  the  love  of  our 
country,  our  honour,  our  virtue,  our  relig^n,  our 
security, .  to  traffic — and  estimate  them  by  the  scale 
of  pecuniary  or  commercial  reckoning.  The  nation 
that  goes  to  that  calculation^  destroys  itself."  *  *** 


SI  8  LIFE   OF  THE 

Sai^ioeiiig  liie  case  6f  an  English  contractor,  dead  to 
every  principle  but  avarice,  bargaining  witji  the 
French,  he  fancied  him  recommending  his  goock  in 
the  following  way.  '^  Should  our  Sovereign,  impelled 
by  parental  feelings  for  his  people,  hazard  his  august 
person,  and  take  the  field  against  you,  behold  here  is 
powder  of  the  first  quality,  and  here  are  bullets  that 
will  do  his  business.  I  do  not  cheat  you ;  believe 
me  they  are  good.  Or  should  his  childr^o,  stimulated 
by  an  hereditary  thirst  for  glory,  take  the  field,  tiieir 
avarice  shall  defeat  their  courage ;  those  bullets  and 
bayonet  shall  go  to  their  hearts,  and  <3veat 
and  her  commerce  be  the  gainer." 

On  the  17th  of  June  he  came  forward  vigorously 
to  oppose  Mr.  Fox's  motion  for  an  address  to  His 
Majesty,  for  the  re-establishment  of  peace  with 
France.  **  Let  us,"  said  he,  ^*  consider  of  the  pos- 
sibility of  n^;ociation.  Supposing  that  England 
was  to  send  an  ambassador  to  the  Sans-Culottes  con- 
vention to  make  the  amende  honorable^  in  a  white 
dieet  at  the  bar  of  the  meeting,  and  by  way  of 
approximating  to  their  system  of  equality,  confer 
that  agreeable  and  honourable  office  on  some  noble- 
man of  high  rank,  how  were  we  sure  that  instead  of 
a  respectful  reception  he  would  not  be  saluted  a  Id 
mode  de  Samterre^  holding  the  bloody  head  of  Louis 
XVI.  as  an  example  to  bll  sovereigpu  ? 

**  Would  you  next  have  him  to  apply  to  the 
Minister,  Le  Brun  ?  Unfortunately  the  poor  fellow 
is  in  gaol,  and  it  may  be  very  tmoertain  whether 
they  would  consent  to  grant  him  a  day  rule.  Would 
you  apply  to  the .  minister,  Clavierre?  You  then 
would  have  nan  est  inventus  returned  upon  the  bade 


RIGHT  HOK.  EDMUND  BURKE.  B19 

of  the  writ,  for  it  seems  he  is  not  to  be  found. 
Would  you  have  recourse  to  Roland  ?  Why,  he  is 
not  0Bly  in  gaol,  but  also  his  wife  along  with  him, 
who  is  said  to  be  the  real  minister.  The  wife  too 
may  be  inaccessible ;  for  as  Roland  is  known  to  be 
uxorious,  he  is  the  more  likely  to  be  jealous,  and 
would  not,  perhi^,  readily  admit  the  visit  of  your 
ambassador.  Apply  to  Brissot,  who  has  so  many 
friends  in  this  country,  and  let  your  ambassador 
take  care  he  leaves  his  watch  behind  him.  But 
alas  !  here  again  Brissot  is  likewise  in  gaol,  bearing 
a  repetition  of  that  sort  of  misfortune  to  which  it  is 
hoped  that  habit  has  reconciled  him.  Pay  your 
addresses  to  Egalite,  and  you  will  find  him  in  his 
dungeon  at  Marseilles,  sighing  at  the  reflecticm  of 
those  hopes  he  once  entertained  of  being  lieutenant- 
genend  of  the  crown  of  France.  There  then  only 
remains  my  celebrated  friend,  the  mSId  and  merafal 
Marat,  whom  a  negociator  might  address  with  very 
excellent  effect,  if  he  carried  credentials  or  recom- 
mendations from  me.  Such  are  the  list  of  sovereignSc 
who  are  to  receive  the  submission  and  amemlk 
honorable  of  the  British  nation." 

Since  the  open  disunion  of  Mr.  Burke  and  Mr.^ 
Fox,  some  cessation  of  public  intercourse,  though 
none  whatever  of  esteem  or  private  friendship,  had 
occurred  between  the  former  and  the  Duke  of  Port*^ 
land,  from  an  idea  entertained  by  his  grace  that  the 
latter  would  in  time  be  brought  round  to  form 
sounder  opinions  upon  the  great  question  in  dispute,^ 
and,  in  the  mean  time,,  lest  an  impression  of  marked 
favour  or  partiality  should  interfere  to  prevent  it» 
be  desired  to  keep  somewhat  aloof  from  both  g^itte^ 


220  LIFE  OF  THE 

men.  The  motive  for  this  Mr.  Burke  perfectly  un- 
derstood, and  did  not  disapprove,  being  as  anxious 
as  his  grace  to  make  a  convert  of  his  former  friend. 
But  daily  occurrences  rendering  this  event  more  and 
more  improbable,  less  ceremony  became  necessary 
in  their  intercourse,  and  during  the  sununer,  the 
Burkes,  father  and  son,  accompanied  the  Duke  to 
Oxford,  on  his  form&l  installation  as  Chancellor  of 
the  University,  the  former  having  likewise  attended 
a  private  ceremony  of  the  same  nature  at  Bulstrode, 
his  grace's  seat,  the  preceding  October.  He .  was 
received  by  the  heads  of  this  seat  of  learning  with 
all  the  marked  respect  and  attention  which  his  cele- 
brity claimed  at  their  hands,  but  it  is  said  privately 
refused  to  be  proposed  for  the  honorary  degree  of 
LL.D,  which,  on  a  former  occasion  there  had  been 
some  hesitation  to  grant.  His  son  however,  as.  well 
as  Mr.  Windham  and  others,  received  this  mark  of 
attention.  He  himself  resided  chiefly  with  Mr.  Win- 
stauley.  Principal  of  Alban  Hall,  and  Camden  Pro- 
fessor of  Ancient  History,  who  was  much  impressed 
by  the  various  knowledge  and  brilliancy  of  conversa- 
tion of  his  guest,  and  of  whose  qualifications  as  a 
philologer  he  thus  wrote  soon  afterward : — 

^^  It  would  be  indeed  as  useless  as  it  would  be 
presumjptuous  in  me  to. attempt  to  add  to  the  reputa- 
tion of  Mr.  Burke.  Among  the  studies  to  which  I 
have  immediately  applied,  there  is  one  which  from 
his  attention  to  the  more  important  concerns  of 
active  life,  it  might  be  supposed  that  he  had  over^ 
looked : — I  mean  that  of  ancient  and  modem  lan- 
guages. Those  however  who  were  acquainted  with 
the  universality  of  his  information,  will  not  be  sur* 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND   BURKE.  821 

prised  to  Hear  that  it  'would  have  been  exceedingly 
difficult  to  have  met  with  a  person  who  knew  more  of 
the  philosophy,  the  history  and  filiation  of  languages^ 
or  of  the  principles  of  etymological  deduction,  than 
Mr.  Burke." — His  society  indeed  proved  a  treat  to 
all  who  possessed  themselves,  or  who  knew  how  to 
value  in  others,  intellectual  superiority:  Gibbon, 
who  had  just  arrived  from  Switzerland  after  some 
years'  absence,  sought  him  out  immediately,  and 
writes  at  this  time  twice  in  his  letters,  ^*  I  spent  a 
delightful  day  with  Burke." 

To  his  son,  who  had  spent  the  earlier  part  of  the 
year  in  Ireland,  on  the  business  of  his  mission  in 
favour  of  the  Roman  Catholics,  he  began  to  address 
a  letter  on  that  important  question,  which,  however, 
was  never  finished.  A  passage  in  it  will  be  read 
at  the  present  moment  with  some  interest,  and  may 
give  rise  to  some  serious  reflections,  among  those 
who  take  part  in  that  great  question. 

^^  I  am  sorry,  to  find  that  pride  and  passion,  and 
that  sort  of .  zeal  for  religion  which  never  shows  any 
wonderful  heat  but  when  it  afflicts  and  mortifies  our 
neighbour,  will  not  let  the  ruling  description  perceive, 
that  the  privileges  for  which  your  clients  contend;  is 
very  nearly  as  much  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
refuse  it,  as  those  who  ask  it.  I  am  not  to  examine 
into  the  charges  that  are  daily  made  on  the  adnunis- 
tration  of  Ireland.  I  am  not  qualified  to  say  how 
much  in  them  is  cdd  truth,  arid  how  much  rheto-- 
rical  exaggeration.  Allowing  some  foundation ,  to 
the  complaint,  it  is  to  no  puripose  that  these  people 
allege  that  their  government  is  a  job  in  its  adminis- 
tration.    I  am  sure  it  is  a  job  in  its  constitution; 


SSS  LIFE  OF   THE 

nor  is  it  possible  a  sdieme  of  poKty,  which,  in  total 
exduflion  of  the  bodf  of  the  communtty',  confines 
(with  little  or  no  regard  to  their  rank  or  condition 
in  life)  to  a  certain  set  of  favoured  dtiaens  the  rights 
whidi  formerly  belonged  to  the  whc4e>  should  not 
by  the  operation  of  the  same  selfish  and  narrow 
principles,  teach  the  persons  who  administer  in  that 
government,  to  prefer  their  own  particular,  but  well 
understood  private  interest,  to  the  false  and  ill«cal- 
culated  private  interest  of  the  monopolizing  company 
they  belong  to. 

^'  Eminent  characters,  to  be  sure,  over-rule  places 
and  drcumstances.  I  have  nothing  to  say  to  that 
virtue  which  shoots  up  in  full  force  by  the  native 
vigour  of  the  seminal  principle,  in  spite  of  the  ad-* 
verse  soil  and  climate  that  it  grows  in.  But  speak- 
ing of  things  in  their  ordinary  course^  in  a  country 
of  monopoly  there  can  be  no  patriotism.  There  may 
he  a  party  spirit^-^but  public  spirit  there  can  be 
none.  As  to  a  spirit  of  liberty  stUl  less  can  it  exist, 
or  amy  thing  like  it.  A  liberty  made  up  of  penal- 
ties !  a  liberty  made  up  of  incapacities !  a  liberty 
made  up  of  exclusions  and  proscriptions,  continued 
for  ages,  of  foi»*fifths  perhaps  of  the  inhabitants  of 
all  ranks  and  fortunes !  In  what  does  such  liberty 
differ  from  the  description  of  the  most  shocking  kind 
of  servitude  ? "" 

A  letter  of  young  Burke  at  this  time  to  his  Mend 
Mr.  Smith,  already  introduced  to  the  reader,  reite* 
rates  his  opinion  of  the  leaders  of  Irish  politics,  and 
alludes  to  some  of  their  mutual  writings. 


EIGHT  HOH.  BDMUND  BURKE.  228 

«  My  DEAE  Sib,  **  DuHJn,  THeadaj. 

^I  should  have  more  {Measure  than  I  bav»  in 
sending  you  the  enclosed,  if  it  w^e  better  worth 
your  acceptance  than  it  is.  It  has  all  the  faults 
which  some  of  its  censurers  have,  in  jMrint,  found 
with  it ;  but  ^f  it  had  as  many  more,  I  am  not  sure 
that  it  would,  on  this  account^  be  substantially  the 
worse.  I  do  not  know  whether  I  am  capable  of 
jNTodudng  a  work  of  literary  merit,  but  I  know  I 
was  not,  in  this  instance,  attempting  any  thing  ol 
the  kind.  I  merely  wished  to  ring  a  bell  that  should 
be  heard ;  and  felt  no  particular  anxiety  as  to  the 
sweetness  of  its  tone.  Your  criticisms  I  shall 
indeed  listen  to  with  interest  and  attention ;  because 
I  know  you  attend  more  to  the  matter  than  to  the 
manner  of  a  thing. 

**  It  appears  that  when  you  wrote,  a  letter  of  mine 
had  not  yet  reached  you.  When  it  was  sent  to  your 
house  in  Hume  Street,  the  messenger  was  told  that 
you  had  left  Dublin,  but  that  it  should  be  sent  after 
you  without  delay.  It  is  therefore  likely  that  you 
have  received  it  by  this  time ;  and  if  so,  you  have 
discovered  your  mistake  in  supposing  that  I  had  not 
found  time  (I  should  have  made  time)  to  read .  over 
what  you  sent  me.  I  have  read  the  whole  of  it  with 
pleasure,  and  will  you  think  me  too  comfdimentary 
if  I  add — ^parts  of  it  with  admiration.  The  Visiim 
and  the  Fable  rival  each  other  with  me ;  and  if  it 
were  not  for  the  reception  given  to  Rekub  in  the 
former,  I  do  not  well  know  which  I  should  prefen 
The  controlling  effect  which  you  suppose  his  ascen^^ 
dant  to  produce  on  his  opponent,  is  very  happily 
imagined,  and  executed  with  great  skill.     I  may — 


1 


224  LIFE   OF   THE     \ 

indeed  I  must -be  partial,  where  my  father  is  con- 
oemed.  But  I  will,  notwithstanding,  venture  to 
say  that  I  do  not  think  him  undeserving  of  the  praise 
which  you  have  bestowed,  with  so  much  cordiality 
and  good  taste. — ^Numbers  7  and  15  are  also  very 
good.  In  parts  of  the  former  there  is  a  felicity  of 
expression  which  I  h^ve  seldom  seen  surpassed. 

**  But  yet,  if  you  have  received  my  letter,  you 
know  that  I  would  dissuade  you  from  giving  your 
thoughts  to  the  public  in  this  form.  The  path  which 
you  are  treading  has  been  already  trodden,  since  the 
days  of  the  Tatler  and  Spectator,  not  only  by  first 
but  by  second  rate  writers ;  and  one  who  neither 
knew  the  author,  nor  happened  to  fall  upon  a  fasci- 
nating passage,  might  take  up  and  open  your  book, 
only  to  shut  and  lay  it  down  again. 

<^You  must  introduce  me  to  your  father.  Not 
to  his  acquaintance ;  for  I  have  done  this  myself ; 
perhaps  forwardly  enough ;  but  under  eircunistances 
which,  when  you  hear  them,  you  will  say  amount 
to  an  apology,  or  something  near  it.  Accordingly 
I.  am  forgiven;  for  I  am  to  be  his  guest  on  Sa- 
turday ;  but  I  fear  without  much  chance  of  meeting 
you.7— What  I  want  you  to  introduce  me  to,  is  his 
favourable  opinion.  I  flatter  myself  that  to  do  thisj 
will  be  but  to  communicate  your  own.  We  have 
not  indeed  met  often,  or  known  each  other  long; 
but;on  the  day  when  I  sat  next  you  at  Beaconsfield, 
it  seeined  to  me  that  we  made  as  much  progress  in 
intimacy  as  could  well  be  made  in  an  afternoon ; 
especially  by  two  lemonade  drinkers,  which  I  re- 
member we  were  at  the  time. 

"  The  more  I  detect  of  the  spirit  of  your  Irish 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMITXD  BURKE.       .      386 


txmndlS) the  less  I  like  them,  n^-"  and -i«~-  may 
be  what  you  call  them.  But  I  fear  you  are  doing 
what  you  do  not  mean  to  do,  complimenting  them. 
I  suspect  their  bigotry  to  be  no  better  than  a  mask ; 
ugly  enough  in  all  conscienoe ;  but  hiding  what  is 
less  honest,  and  therefore  more  deformed.  Then 
the  vessel  of  your  state !  It  seems  to  be  without  a 
rudder,  or  without  a  steersman ;  tossed  at  the  will 
of  wind  and  current,  or  of  a  management  which  is 
shifting,  contradictory,  and  capricious;  and  what 
port  it  is  to  find,  or  whether  it  is  to  find  any,  I  take 
to  be  rather  a  matter  of  chance  than  of  calculation. 

^^  On  some  of  these  points,  if  you  do  not  altoge- 
ther differ  from  me,  neither,  I  fear,  are  we  quite 
agreed.  I  am  some  years  older  than  you;  and  I 
think  time  will  remove  whatever  differences  of  opi« 
nion  at  present  exist  between  us  on  these  subjects. 
In  the  mean  while  let  me  say  you  are  too  candid. 
Not  content  with  throwing  weighty  reasons  into 
yoiur  own  scale,  you  are  also  for  flinging  arguments 
into  that  of  your  adversaries,  which,  without  your 
assistance,  many  of  them  would  not  have  discovered ; 
but  which  you  will  find  them  ready  enough  to  turn 
to  an  un£ur  and  ungrateful  purpose. 

^  In  my  last  letter  you  will  have  found  me  almost 
soliciting  your  active  co-operation.  This  I  do  not 
expect;  nor  perhaps,  under  all  the  circumstances, 
ought  I  ever  to  have  expected.  Yet  there  is  nothing 
in  the  substance  of  my  letter  which  I  repent  of. 
What  I  should  do,  if  I  were  now  revising  it,  would 
be  to  make  it  less  formal  than  I  believe  it  to  have 
been.  From  the  kindness  of  your's  which  is  now 
before  me,  it  appears  that  you  have  not  forgotten 

VOL.   II.  Q 


226  LIFE  OF  THE 

an  evening  to  which  I  have  been  alluding,  and  I  am 
led  to  hope  that  you  will  pronounce  mine  (his  letter) 
to  have  been  too  ceremonious,  and  will  consider 
our  Beaconsfield  afternoon  to  have  put  me  on  a 
footing  of  more  familiarity  with  you  than  I  have 
used.  I  shall  feel  greatly  obliged  by  your  reproaches 
upon  this  score. 

**  Most  fidthfiilly  your's, 

u  To  William  Smith.  Esq.  *^  RiCHARD  BUBXE.'' 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  S27 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Letter  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  on  the  Conduct  of  the  Minority^-— 
Letter  to  Mr.  Smith. — Character  of  Mr.  Dundas.^— Remarks  on 
the  Policy  of  the  Allies. — ^Letters  to  General  O'Hara^  Mr. 
Murphy,  and  Mr.  Dolphin — Richard  Burke  the  Elder.— Re- 
port upon  the  causes  of  the  duration  of  Mr.  Hastings's  TriaL — 
Death  of  Young  Burke.— Dr.  Laurence's  Letters. 


The  tendency  of  the  politics  of  Mr.  Fox  becom- 
ing more  generally  questioned  in  the  country,  and 
to  many  a  source  of  suspicion,  if  not  of  apprehen- 
sion, he  thought  it  necessary  to  explain  and  defend 
his  conduct  more  at  large,  hf  a  letter  addressed  to 
his  constituents,  the  electors  of  Westminster.  This 
piece  Mr.  Burke  characterized  generally  as  eloquent, 
but  displa}ang  more  forbearance  than  his  friend 
Fox  thought  it  necessary  to  display  towards  his 
**  Reflections,"  he  refrained  from  invidious  criticism. 
Dr.  Parr,  however,  though  so  staunch  a  friend  of 
the  **  Man  of  the  People,"  expressed  himself  slight- 
ingly of  the  taste  and  literary  merits  displayed  in 
its  execution,  observing  in  conversation,  <Uhere 
were  in  it  passages  at  which  Addison  would  have 
mniled  and  Johnson  growled. 

A  resolution  of  the  Whig  Club  about  this  time, 
moved  by  Lord  William  Russell, — that  their  confi- 
dence in  Mr.  Fox  was  confirmed,  strengthened,  and 
increased  by  the  calumnies  against  him — did  not 
appear  to  operate  much  in  setting  him  right  in  public 
opinion.  But  being  evidently  levelled  at  the  exeep- 
tions  taken  to  his  parliamentary  conduct  by  Mr. 


228  LIFE  OF   THE 

Burke,  Mr.  Windham,  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  and  others, 
they  immediately  withdrew  their  names  from  the  Club 
to  the  number  of  forty-five  noblemen  and  gentlemen^ 
writing  their  reasons  for  seceding ;  and  it  being  insi- 
nuated that  the  Duke  of  Portland  had  concurred  in 
the  obnoxious  resolution,  Mr,  Burke  in  justification 
of  his  own,  and  his  friends'  ooosures,  drew  up  for 
the  consideration  of  his  gracie,  as  the  head  of  the 
party,  the  famous  ^*  Observations  an  the  Conduct  of 
the  Minority.^ 

This  paper  details,  under  fifty-four  heads,  a  strong 
case  against  Mr.  Fox,  which  that  gentleman's  friends, 
with  their  usual  zeal,  characterized  as  an  unjustifiable 
proceeding ;  but  it  is  difikult  to  conceive  for  what 
reawm,  except  it  be  deemed  unfair  and  injudicious  to 
detach  those  we  respect  and  desire  to  setve,  from 
attachments  and  from  proceedings  which  we  ourselves 
hold  to  be  wrong,  and  which  are  held  to  be  so  by 
the  great  body  of  the  nation.  Thinking  upon  public 
affairs  as  Mr,  Burke  was  known  to  do,  it  is  not  to  be 
supposed  that  he  would  act  otherwise  than  be  did. 
The  paper  was  transmitted  to  the  Duke  as  a  confi- 
dential communication  sealed  up,  with  an  intimation 
that  he  did  not  even  desire  it  to  be  read  by  him  until 
a  disconnexion  of  interests  with  Mr.  Fox  should  take 
place,  which  the  sagacious  writer  pronotmced  to  be 
ultimately  inevitable.  It  cannot  therefore  be  justly 
characterized  as  being  meant  to  produce  a  rupture 
between  that  nobleman  and  his  leader  in  the  House 
x>f  Commons,  but  rather  as  a  matter  for  considera- 
tion consequent  upon  such  an  event  occurring  from 
other  causes.  His  own  words  in  the  letter  to  the 
Duke  which  accompanied  the  paper  are — 

I  now  make  it  my  humble  request  to  your  Grace, 


it 


RIGHT   HON.   £DMUNB  BURKE.  S99 

that  yon  will  not  give  any  sort  of  answer  to  the 
paper  I  send,  or  to  this  letter,  except  barely  to  let 
me  know  that  you  have  received  them.  I  even  wish 
that  at  present  you  may  not  read  the  paper  which 
I  transmit ;,  lock  it  up  in  the  drawer  of  your  library 
table,  and  when  a  day  of  compulsory  reflection  comes, 
then  be  pleased  to  turn  to  it.  Then  remember  that 
your  Grace  had  a  true  friend,  who  had,  compara- 
tively with  men  of  your  description,  a  very  small 
interest  in  opposing  the  modem  S3rstem  of  morality 
and  policy ;  but  who  under  every  discouragement 
was  faithful  to  public  duty  and  to  private  friend- 
ship. I  shall  then  probably  be  dead.  I  am  sure 
I  do  not  wish  to  live  to  see  such  things ;  but,  whilst 
I  do  live,  I  shaU  pursue  the  same  course." 

C!ommunicated  thus  in  confidence,  it  might  have 
remained  for  ever,  or  for  along  time  at  least,  unknown 
to  the  world,  but  for  the  scandalous  breach  of 
confidence  committed  by  the  amanuensis  of  Mr. 
Burke,  an  ungrateful  and  imprincipled  man  named 
Swift  whom  he  had  rescued  from  abject  poverty, 
who  having  kept  a  copy  of  what  he  was  employed 
to  transcribe,  surreptitiously  printed  it  in  1797, 
undear  the  invidious  title  of  **  Fifty-four  Articles  of 
Impeachment  against  the  Right  Hon.  C.  J.  Fox.*^ 
Mr.  Burke  being  then  at  Bath  confined  to  his  bed, 
his  friends  in  town  obtained  an  injunction  from  the 
Chancellor  to  stop  the  circulation,  but  too  late  to 
prevent  the  distribution  of  many  copies  through  the 
country.  He  wrote  directly  to  Dr.  Lawrence,  de-* 
siring  him  to  disclaim  the  act  and  the  intention  of 
publication,  but  not  one  of  the  sentiments  which 
the  paper  contained. 

The  aim  of  it  was  unquestionably  to  beat  down 


230  LIFE   OF   THE 

the  belief  that  either  the  late  conduct  or  opinions  of 
Mr.  Fox  were  constitutional,  and  to  show  that  his 
proceedings  on  many  recent  occasions  evinced  an 
ambitious,  a  meddling,  almost  a  treasonable,*  any 
thing  indeed  but  a  patriotic  spirit.  The  heated 
exaggerations  of  his  friends  perhaps  required  to  be 
cooled  down  to  this  freezing  level.  The  care  with 
which  they  reported  his  speeches  and  detailed  his 
sentiments,  so  that  not  a  single  idea  worthy  of  notice, 
or  a  merit  of  any  kind  belonging  to  him  should  be 
lost  to  the  public,  was  pointedly  mentioned  in  the 
late  session  by  the  subject  of  this  memoir,  and  the 
fact  will  recur  to  the  memory  of  most  readers  of 
political  history.  Mr.  Burke,  however,  should  not 
have  mentioned  what  in  great  measure  originated 
with  himself,  except  indeed  he  imagined  he  possessed 
an  exclusive  privilege  to  pull  down  the  idol  he  hai 
chiefly  contributed  to  raise.  He  it  was  who  first 
gave  Mr.  Fox  to  the  world  as  a  great  man.  He 
wrote  him  and  spoke  him  into  public  esteem.  He 
enlisted  him  into  his  party.  He  pushed  him  for- 
ward to  lead  to  a  certain  degree  the  Rockingham 
connexion  even  over  his  own  head,  regardless  of 
personal  interests,  or  of  that  still  greater  object,  per- 
sonal importance,  which  was  sure  to  accrue  to  him- 
self from  keeping  such  an  ally  at  a  distance.  He 
knew  that  Mr.  Fox,  as  much  by  his  connexions  as 
by  his  talents  and  rising  popularity,  would  be  most 
useAil  to  his  party,  and  that  from  his  friendships 

*  This  alludes  to  sending  his  friend  Mr.  Adair  with  his  cypher 
to  St  Petenburg,  to  counteract  the  ohjects  at  which  the  Emhasn- 
dor  of  the  C^wn  aimed — an  unprecedented  occurrence  in  the 
history  of  the  Opposition. 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  831 

with,  and  sway  over,  the  moBt  promismg  young  men 
coming  forward  in  Parliament,  he  was  likely  to  pos- 
sess a  weight  there  which  he  himself,  from  many 
causes  already  specified,  could  not  hope  to  acquire. 
There  was  the  further  motive  of  the  r^;ard  of  a 
master  for  a  favourite  pupil,  for  he  tells  us  that  Fox 
was  brought  to  him  when  only  a  boy  of  fourteen ;  the 
triumph  of  one  therefore  was  in  some  degree  a  merit 
of  both. 

All  this  partiality,  therefore,  was  not  without  an 
object ;  but  it  was  a  party,  not  a  private  object ;  and 
therefcHre  exhibited  his  personal  disinterestedness. 
The  fact  shows  us  likewise  the  total  absence  on  his 
part  of  any  feeling  akin  to  jealousy.  It  must  not 
however  be  understood  that  he  ever  submitted  to  be- 
come  a  secondary  person  in  this  junction  of  interests, 
which  was  strictly  in  the  nature  of  an  alliance  rather 
than  a  subjection  of  one  to  the  other,  for  both  conti- 
nued to  be  principals ;  Burke  being  perhaps  on  the 
majority  of  occasions  the  real  actuating  spirit,  and 
Fox  the  nominal  leader  of  the  party.  It  is  at  least 
certain  that  whatever  the  one  had  determined  to  do, 
the  other  found  it  expedient  to  approve.  There 
wiU  not  be  a  question  therefore  among  those  who  are 
best  acquainted  with  the  political  history  of  their 
mutual  careier,  that  Mr.  Fox  would  never  have  arrived 
at  that  pre-eminence  in  his  party,  or  in  the  country, 
which  he  possessed^  had  it  not  been  for  the  active 
aid  and  counsel  of  Burke.* 

The  following  letter,  written  about  this  time  to 


*  Of  hit  fimdnMi  to  appbnd,  oe  as  somebody  bas  tennad  it,  to 
pmjf  bis  pupil  as  much  on  private  as  on  public  oocasionB,  tbe  fdU 


332  LIFE   OF   THE 

his  young  friend  in  Irtltnd»  Mr.  &nith,  alludes  playw 
fulljr  to  several  of  the  lighter  productions  of  that 
gentleman,  whose  pen  was  diligently  employed  oa 
literary  as  well  as  political  matters. 

"  My  deae  Sir, 
**  I  have  tak^i  possession  of  one  of  your  packets, 
and  will  forward  the  other  as  you  desire.  Peter 
Parallel*  is  a  very  pleasant  fellow ;  and  tells  serious 
truths  with  consideraUe  humour.  I  need  not  tell 
you  how  much  my  son  admires  The  Vmanj*  for  I 
know  that  he  has  told  you  this  himself.  But  thou^ 
I  too  thought  highly  of  it  from  the  first,  you  either 
must  have  improved  it,  or  I  appear  to  have  done  it 
scanty  justice.  But  the  fable  of  The  Rights 
(^  Waters*   continues  to  be  my  favourite;    and 

lowing  extract  of  a  letter  to  his  oousm  Ni^e^  written  in  October, 
1777>  during  die  wit  of  Mr.  Fox  to  Irdamd,  it  an  in«tanoR :-~ 

'^  I  am  heartily  gladand  obliged  to  youfbr  your  letter,and  for 
your  kind  remembrance  of  me  wben  you  bappened  to  see  so  many 
of  my  most  particular  friends  in  so  remote  and  sequestered  a  spot 
as  tbe  Lfiike  of  Killamey.  Ned  Nagle  tdd  me  thattbey  were  at 
3F0ur  lodge,  \ntt  ywxr  letter  only  expresses  tbat  you  dined  widi 
them.  Wbaaerer  you  saw  ihedi  I  am  sore  diat  you  passed  a  plea- 
sant day ;  and  I  may  veoture  to  soy,  widi  no  lew  certain^,  tbal 
tbe  satisfactions  of  tbe  Lake  of  Killamey  were  beigbtened  by 
meeting  you  tbere^  and  by  your  obliging  attention  to  tbem.*  *  *  * 
Don't  you  like  Cbarles  FoxF  If  you  were  not  pleased  on  tbat 
■bait  acquaintance  you  would  on  a  lurtber ;  for  be  is  one  of  tbe 
pleasantest  men  in  tbe  worlds  as  well  as  tbe  greatest  genius  diai 
perbaps  tbis  country  bas  ever  produced.  If  be  is  not  extraordi- 
Dary^  I  assure  you  tbe  Britisb  dominions  cannot  fumiab  any  tbing 
beyond  bim.    I  long  to  talk  witb  bim  about  you  and  your  Lougb  " 

*  Tbeae  passages  kave  xeferenoe  to  pdyitiiial  essays  of  wbicb 
Mr.  Smitb  was  tbe  autbor.     The  ''  Big^  of  Wateza*"  heie 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BUHKE.  tSS 

this  jrou  eertainly  have  retouched,  and  to  good 
effect.     Your  manuscripts  too  are  in  high  request.* 

Miss  dedares  that  if  she  was  a  Naiad,  she 

would  he  afraid  of  you ;  though  I  have  made  hor 
confess  that  there  is  nothing  satyrical  in  your  gal-* 

lantries.    C says  your  French  is  exquisite ; 

and  as  he  is  a  Frenchman,  and  no  flatterer,  he  may 
probahly  he  trusted.  I  am  no  competent  judge  of 
this  matter ;  but  I  certainly  think  your  English  ia 
exquisitely  tender.  I  write  in  haste,  but  hope  I 
have  said  enough  to  prove  that  if  the  Muse  should 
present  you  with  any  further  pledges  of  attachment, 
they  might  be  sent  to  nurse  here  with  every  pros^ 
pect  of  a  good  reception.  You  must  dot,  however, 
become  a  poet,  or  a  gallant,  even  t>f  th^  NaiadS; 
Nature  meant  you,  or  I  am  mistaken,  for  some- 
thing more  respectable  and  useful.  Yet  I  mitet  con- 
fess that  the  compliments  and  regards  with  which  I 
am  charged,  are  intended  for  the  poet.  But  I,  who 
am  an  old  politician,  naturally  direct  my  adieux  to 
the  embryo  statesman,  &c.  &c.       ••  Edm.  Burke." 

spoken  of  io  favourably  by  Mr.  Burke^  formed  aa  ingenious  pa- 
rallel with  the  course  of  human  life,  in  which>  from  the  order  of 
things  established  by  the  Great  Creator  of  l^e  unifcrse^  it  is  or- 
dakiedthat  some  must  swim  on  the  soriaoe,  some  at  the  bottom  of 
the  great  stream  of  society,  more  eq>eciaUy  dnlised  society ;  but 
that  the  dispositions  are  not  so  fixed  as  not  to  exhibit  continual 
fluctuations  and  changes  of  position.  It  was  a  blow  at  the  princi- 
ples inculcated  by  "  The  Rights  of  Man/*  and  similar  productions. 
*  These  manuscripts  were  juvenile  poems— ^one  addreased  to 
tlie  Naiad  of  BrynkineLt  in  North  Wales,  in  commemoirsti0&  of  the 
exceUenoe  of  the  water  of  a  qpring  in  the  demesne  of  Lord  Dun-*, 
gannon ;  another  inscribed  to  the  Naiad  of  Tears^  being  an  imita-> 
tion  of  Gray's  lines,  "  O  lacrymarumfonSy'  &c.  These  lines  Mr. 
Smith  had  likewise  paraphrased  in  French. 


2S4  LIFE  OF  THE 

As  a  mark  of  respect  for  his  unwearied  laboiirsy 
and  the  interest  which  he  took  in  the  public  cause» 
events  of  importance  on  the  continent  connected  with 
the  war»  were  communicated  to  him  as  to  a  cabinet 
minister,  by  a  special  messenger.  When  the  news 
of  the  surrender  of  Valenciennes  arrived,  a  commu- 
nication of  this  nature  found  him  at  the  little  theatre 
of  Chalfont-St.-Peter,  a  few  miles  from  Beaconsfield, 
when  he  interrupted  the  performance  for  the  purpose 
of  reading  aloud  the  contents  of  the  dispatch  to  the 
audience,  pointing  out,  as  he  proceeded,  the  impor- 
tance  of  the  conquest ;  and  giving  money  to  the 
humble  orchestra  to  'drink  his  Majesty's  health, 
ordered  them  to  play  God  save  the  King,  which 
ivas  accompanied  by  the  audience  in  chorus. 

The  information  forwarded  on  this  occasion,  and 
ca^  dviliU«  of.,  simib,  nature  Aown  hta  br 
the  Ministry,  usually  came  through  the  channel  of 
Mr.  Dundas,  with  whom,  of  all  the  members  of  the 
cabinet  at  this  time,  he  was  most  intimate,  and 
for  whom  he  had  the  greatest  regard,  arising  as 
much  from  real  respect  for  his  talents,  as  for 
knowing  him  to  possess  qualities  which  form  the 
surest  pledges  for  the  excellence  of  the  heart. 

This  gentleman  exhibited  another  instance  of  an 
eminent  British  Statesman,  detached  not  merely 
from  the  law  as  a  study,  but  from  the  active  practice 
of  it  almost  in  tho  highest  rank  of  the  profession  in 
his  native  country,  to  aim  at  a  still  higher  prize  in 
the  lottery  of  political  life  in  England.  He  was  a 
younger  son  of  the  Lord  President  of  the  Court  of 
Session  in  Scotland,  and  applying  himself  diligently 


RIGHT  HON.  BDItfUNB  BUBKE.  S85 

toforensicpursuits^attainedthe  importantpostof  Lord 
Advocate  at  the  age  of  thirty-four.  Nearly  about  the 
same  time  he  commenced  his  career  in  Parliament, 
as  member  for  the  county  of  Edinburgh,  and  the 
American  war  breaking  out  immediately  afterwards, 
he  thought  it  his  duty  to  support  the  views  and 
measures  of  ministry  in  that  unfortunate  contest. 
Under  Lord  Shelbume's  Administration,  however, 
he  accepted  the  office  of  Treasurer  of  the  Navy, 
and,  on  this  account,  was  charged,  as  all  statesmen 
are  at  some  period  or  other  of  their  lives,  with 
inconsistency  in  quitting  his  former  opinions  on  that 
topic,  as  well  as  with  political  ingratitude  in  deserting 
the  falling  fortunes  of  his  original  patron.  Lord 
North.  It  was  in  this  situation  that  he  formed  that 
intimate  acquaintance,  both  personal  and  political, 
with  Mr.  Pitt,  which  continued  with  luiinterrupted 
regard  for  the  remainder  of  their  lives,  and  which 
tended  so  materi^y  to  his  own  political  success..  With 
him  he  was  thrown  out  by  the  coalition  ministry  in 
178S ;  with  him  he  again  returned  to  power  and 
resumed  his  office,  in  addition  to  becoming  President 
of  the  Board  of  Controul  under  the  new  system  of 
government  for  India ;  with  him  he  debated  side  by 
side  the  great  and  trying  questions  agitated  during 
the  revolutionary  war ;  and  with  him  he  quitted 
office  in  1801,  when  unable  to  acquire  for  the  Roman 
Catholics  of  Ireland  those  concessions  which  had 
been  indirectly  promised. 

Soon  after  his  return  to  power,  in  company  with  his 
great  friend  as  first  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  having 
been,  in  the  meantime  raised  to  the  peerage  by  thetitle 


SS6  LIFE  OF  TH& 

of  Viscount  Melville,  a  denfie  cloud  burst  upon  his 
heed,  and  seemed  for  a  moment  to  overshadow  his 
fiEune.  This  was  the  tenth  report  of  the  commis- 
sioners of  naval  inquiry,  who,  in  their  examinatiim 
into  the  business  of  the  various  offices  in  that 
department,  charged  him,  if  not  with  peculation,  at 
least  with  mismanagement  of  the  public  money 
Intrusted  to  his  care,  in  his  former  office  of  Trea- 
surer of  the  Navy.  This  shade  however  passed 
away,  and  has  left  nothing  of  stain  behind  it.  Of 
any  thing  like  guilt  he  was  fully  acquitted  by  the 
House  of  Lords,  on  the  impeachment  to  which  the 
charge  gave  rise ;  and  the  utmost  censure  to  which 
he  is  amenable,  is,  perhaps,  some  degree  of  irregu- 
larity and  negligence,  arising  rather  from  the  mis- 
conduct of  others  than  of  his  own,  and  against 
which  it  is  difficult  for  any  minister  in  a  leading 
department  of  the  state  to  guard,  whose  unavoid- 
able confidence  in  his  deputies  in-  office,  is  unge^ 
nerously  abused. 

As  a  Minister  he  was  sagacious,  acute,  practical  in 
his  views,  unwearied  in  the  duties  of  his  office,  fond 
indeed  of  performing  them,  and  not  difficult  of 
access.  The  country  is  indebted  to  him  in  no  incon- 
siderable degree,  for  a  variety  of  measures  and  sug- 
gestions, many  of  which,  however,  remain  yet  to  be 
appropriated  to  the  rightful  owner.  The  India 
department  seemed  to  be  for  some  years  almost  his 
own.  His  knowledge  of  it  was  necessarily  much 
more  eittensive  and  minute  than  that  of  any  other 
man  in  or  out  of  Parliament,  except  Burke,  while 
in  acquaintance  with  the  details  of  the  local  govern- 
ments there,  he  possessed  from  his  official  situation 


BIGHT  HONs  EDMUND  BUBKE.  SS7 

several  advantages.     Between  them  there  might  be 
said  to  be  a  monopoly  of  this  branch  of  information. 

With  Burke  also  he  participated  in  the  errort  if 
any  error  can  ever  be  proved  to  have  been  com- 
mitted, of  being  the  original  accuser  of  Mr.  Hast* 
ings.  Some  useful  and  important  alterations  con- 
nected with  the  administration  of  the  government 
of  India  owe  their  origin  to  him.  Among  these 
was  that  extension  of  power  to  the  Governor  General 
of  that  country,  which,  while  it  left  less  room  for 
those  bickerings  and  contentions  between  Grovemor 
and  Council,  which  had  formerly  prevailed  to  so 
great  a  degree,  exacted  from  the  former  in  return 
for  such  confidence,  a  proportionate  personal  respon- 
sibility. At  the  commencement  of  the  war  with 
France,  the  volunteer  system  received  an  impulse 
from  his  judicious  measures,  which  tended  mate- 
rially to  rouse  the  spirit  of  the  country.  He  planned 
and  conducted,  in  opposition  it  is  said  to  several 
dissentient  voices  in  the  Cabinet,  the  expedition  to 
Egypt  which  expelled  the  French  from  that  country. 
On  his  accession  to  the  Admiralty,  the  same  active 
spirit  of  improvement  accompanied  him  thither,  and 
many  judicious  measures  were  devised  for  the  com- 
forts of  the  seamen,  and  the  improv^nent  of  the 
situation  of  more  than  one  dass  of  the  subordinate 
officers,  until,  to  the  unfeigned  regret  of  all  the  other 
classes  of  that  service  over  which  he  presided,  the 
unexpected  charge  alluded  to,  interrupted  his  career. 

During  nearly  the  whole  of  his  political  life,  his 
influence  in  his  native  country  was  extensive,  per- 
haps of  late  years  unexampled ;  and  it  implies  no 
ordinary  merit  on  his  part  to  find  the  quiet,  the 


^ 


S38  LIFE   OF   THE 

external  prosperity,  and  the  domestic  improvement 
of  the  country  to  have  kept  pace  with  his  tenure  of 
power.  No  murmurings  during  this  long  period 
were  heard ;  no  dissatisfaction  expressed  against  him 
for  the  exercise  of  this  power,  at  undue  partiality  on 
the  one  hand,  or  unmerited  disfavour  on  the  other. 
In  England  it  was  his  lot  to  be  almost  equally  for- 
tunate ;  and  it  must  ever  be  considered  a  proof  of 
singular  exemption  from  great  faults,  or  of  a  mode- 
ration of  conduct  which  deprived  popular  prejudice 
of  its  favourite  food,  that  in  a  period  of  the  most 
envenomed  political  warfare,  nothing  more  serious 
could  be  urged  against  him  than  a  few  harmless 
jests  of  Peter  Pindar. 

In  Parliament,  he  never  pretended  to,  and  never 
sought,  the  character  of  a  finished  and  imposing 
orator ;  for  his  manner  was  ungraceful,  and  his  dia- 
lect provincial :  content  with  grasping  directly  and 
forcibly  the  substance  of  his  argument,  he  appeared 
little  solicitous  about  the  elegance  of  the  manner  in 
which  it  should  be  handled.  But  there  was  a  bold- 
ness and  decision  in  his  mode  of  address  that  always 
conmaanded  attention,  and  a  solidity  and  acuteness 
in  the  matter  it  conveyed  which  seldom  failed  to  per* 
form  their  office  of  convincing.  No  ministry  could 
have  possessed  a  more  useful  member.  He  was 
not  so  much  cut  out  for  brilliant  and  overpowering 
efforts  on  special  occasions,  as  for  the  necessary  and 
laborious  duties,  the  expositions  and  defences  of 
measures,  which  he  had  daily  to  undertake  in  carry- 
ing on  the  actual  business  of  the  state.  He  was 
rarely  to  be  taken  unawares,  but  ready  as  it  seemed, 
every  day,  and  every  hour  of  the  day,  for  debate. 

Constantly  opposed  as  he  and  Mr.  Burke  were  to 


EIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BXTRKE.  289 

each  other  in  the  great  theatre  of  national  eloquence, 
neither  the  conflicting  opinion,  the  hiting  sarcasm, 
nor  the  vehement  reprehension  with  which  a  minister 
is  often  gratuitously  saluted  by  a  leader  of  Opposi- 
tion, produced  between  them  any  thing  like  feelings 
of  hostility.  They  first  became  more  personally 
familiar  in  the  session  1780-81,  in  consequence  of 
serving  on  East  India  Committees ;  and  saw  in  each 
other  kindred  qualities  which  subsequently  served 
to  soften  something  of  the  acerbity  of  party..  From 
about  the  year  1790  until  the  death  of  Burke,  occa- 
sional  communication  on  public  matters  took  place 
between  them.  There  was  in  Mr.  Dundas  a  good- 
ness of  heart  that  claimed  esteem ;  he  was  conti- 
nually called  upon  by  persons  of  whom  he  knew 
little  to  do  kind  offices,  and  he  did  them  in  the  kind- 
est, often  in  the  most  generous  manner;  he  was 
frank,  sociable,  careless  of  money,  and  affectionate 
in  his  attachments,— qualities  which  acquired  him 
nearly  as  many  friends  as  he  possessed  acquaintance. 
Other  and  more  imposing  characteristics  may  belong 
to  the  statesman,  but  these  call  upon  ua  to  love,  to 
distinguish,  and  unaffectedly  to  respect  the  memory 
of  the  man. 

Mr.  Burke,  though  a  warm  supporter  of  the  war, 
as  the  only  means  of  saving  the  country,  differed 
frequently  with  Ministry  on  its  details,  more  parti- 
cularly the  mode  of  carrying  it  on,  which  was 
scarcely  ever  to  his  satisfaction ;  and  looking  only 
to  the  results,  his  objections  would  seem  to  have 
been  well  groimded.  One  of  the  chief  papers  on  the 
subject  was  *^  Remarks  on  the  Policy  of  the  Allies 
with  respect  to  France,"  begun  in  October  1793,  d 


S40  urn  of  thb 


paaBage  of  whidi  diftplajns  such  an  instiiietive  know* 
ledge  of  France  and  of  Frenchmen,  tbat  the  cause 
of  the  ill-sucoess  of  the  Bourbons  in  conciliating  the 
public  mind  of  that  country  in  1814,  will  become 
immediately  obvious,  while  it  exhibits  another  in* 
stance  ci  die  sagacity  which  could  teach  that  family, 
twenty-one  years  before  tl^e  event,  the  only  mode  of 
securing  their  kingdom  in  case  they  should  again 
acquire  it* 

<'  Whoever  claims  a  right  by  birth  to  govern  there, 
must  find  in  his  breast,  or  conjure  up  in  it  an 
energy  not  to  be  expected^  not  always  to  be  wished 
for,  in  well  ordered  states.  The  lawful  prince  must 
have  in  every  thing  but  crime  the  character  of  an 
usurper.  He  is  gone  if  ke  imagines  himself  the 
quiet  possessor  of  a  throne.  He  is  to  contend  for 
it  as  much  after  an  aiqparent  conquest  as  before. 
His  tadc  is  to  win  it;  he  must  leave  posterity  to 
enjoy  and  to  adorn  it.  No  velvet  cushions  for  him. 
He  is  to  be  always  (I  speak  neariy  to  the  letter)  on 
horseback.  This  opinion  is  the  result  of  much 
patient  thinking  on  the  subject,  which  I  conceive  no 
event  is  likely  to  alter."  The  terms  and  spirit  of 
the  declaration  or  manifesto  issued  by  the  British 
Government,  under  date  of  October  29th  (1793),  he 
hi^y  approved  of,  but  thought  its  promulgation 
ill*timed  and  imprudent  at  a  moment  when,  from 
the  successes  of  the  enemy,  and  the  reverses  of  our 
own  arms,  hostile  manifestoes  appear  more  petulant 
than  formidable. 

In  another  passage  he  specifically  points  out,  in 
express  terms,  as  if  futurity  was  open  to  his  view, 
diat  no  settlement  of  France  could  be  hoped  to  be 
immediate,  and  that  a  military  government,  or  some- 


RIGHT   HON/  EDMUND  BUBKS.  S41 

ihing  tantamount  to  it,  must  precede  the  formatioii 
of  a  regular  government. 

**  What  difficulties  will  be  met  with  in  a  country 
exhausted  by  the  taking  of  its  capital  (in  money)  and 
among  a  people  in  a  manner  new-principled,  trained, - 
and  actually  disciplined  to  anarchy,  rebellion,  dis- 
order, and  impiety,  may  be  conceived  by  those  who 
know  what  jacobin  France  is,  and  who  may  have  oc* 
cupied  themselves  byrevolving  in  their  thoughts  what 
they  were  to  do  if  it  fell  to  their  lot  to  re-establish 
the  affairs  of  France.  What  support  or  what  limi- 
tations the  restored  Monarchy  must  have,  may  be  a 
doubt,  or  how  it  will  pitch  or  settle  at  last ;  but  one 
Mng  I  conceive  to  be  Jar  beyond  a  doubt;  that  the 
settlement  cannot  be  immediate ;  but  that  it  must  be 
preceded  by  some  sort  of  power ^  equal  at  least  in 
vigour,  vigilance,  promptitude  and  decision  to  a 
military  government.  For  such  a  preparatory  go- 
vernment no  slow-paced,  methodical,  formal,  lawyer* 
like  system,  still  less  that  of  a  showy,  superficial, 
trifling,  intriguing  court,  guided  by  cabals  of  ladies, 
or  of  men  like  ladies ;  least  of  .all  a  philosophic^ 
theoretic,  disputatious  school  of  sophistry — ^none 
of  these  ever  wiU,  or  ever  can  lay  the  foundations 
of  an  order  that  will  last." 

Toulon  being  now  in  our  possession,  he  wrote  the 
following  letter  in  favour  of  a  deserving  officer,  to 
the  commandant  of  that  place,  Lieutenant-General 
O'Hara,  who  was  an  old  acquaintance : — 

^  My  D£ae  Sie, 
**  Some  very  pleasant  things  have  happened  to  me 
lately,  because  they  connect  the  public  advantage 

VOL.  II.  11 


Ii4i  LIFE  OF   TH£ 


my  private  regards  and  aflfectioDS.  Toulon  ia 
our's  (I  trust  it  still  is),  and  my  frien4  General  O'Hara 
oommaads.  I  heartily  congratulate  the  nation,  my- 
self, and  you»  upon  this  happy  combination  of  dr- 
comstances ;  and  I  promise  myself  every  thing  firom 
it.  Will  you  be  so  good  as  to  keep  an  old  humble 
servant  of  your's  in  your  thoughts ;  and  be  so  good 
as  to  excuse  also  this  mode  of  reminding  you  of  one 
that  has  always  respected,  and  always  will  very 
sincerely  respect  you. 

*^  The  person  who  will  have  the  honor  of  deliver- 
ing this  to  you  is  Captain  Edwards,  an  officer  of 
thirty-two  years  imimpeached  and  meritorious 
service.  He  is  a  person  whom  I  recommend  with  an 
earnestness  very  different  from  that  which  generally 
dictates  ordinary  letters  of  recommendation.  I  am 
extremely  interested  in  every  thing  which  can  con* 
tribute  to  his  honor  and  advantage;  and  if  I  can 
obtain  for  him  your  &vour  and  protection,  few  things 
pould  happen  more  agreeable  to  me.  I  have  known 
him  for  many  years ;  and  I  have  esteemed  him  as 
I  have  known  him.  He  is  a  man  of  worth  and  in- 
tegrity,  if  any  man  is  so;  and  one  i^  whose  sode^ 
it  is  impossible  not  to  find  great  satisfaction  from  his 
good  principles,  good  temper,  and  good  nature.  His 
object  now  is  to  be  on  the  staff. 

'^  Qnoe  more  give  me  leave  to  assure  you  of  my 
most  sincere  regards ;  and  do  me  the  justice  to 
me  always,        **  My  dear  Sir, 

*'  Your  most  obedient, 
'^  And  faithful  humUe  servant, 

^  Edmund  Bubke. 

'<  %fKXHMfield,  October  87. 179S." 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUNB  BURKE.  843 


'Rie  dedication  of  Us  translation  of  Tacitus,  hy 
Mr.  Murphy,  drew  two  letters  from  Mr.  Burke  of 
mingled  acknowle(%m6|ito  and  criticism;  the  one 
written  from  Duke-fitree*,  May  96,  17995  the  other 
ftom  Beaconsfield,  in  December  of'  the  same  year. 
In  the  former  he  says, — 

'*  I  thank  you  for  the  partial  light  in  which  you 
regard  my  weak  endeavours  for  the  conservation  of 
that  ancient  order  of  things  in  which  we  were  bom, 
and  in  which  we  have  Mved  neither  unhappily  noi? 
disgracefally,  and  (you  at  least)  not  unprofitably  to 
your  country.  As  to  me,  in  truth  I  can  claim  no- 
thing more  than  good  intention  in  the  part  I  have 
to  act.  Since  I  am  paUicly  placed  (however  little 
flMitahly  so  to  my  abilities  or  indination),  I  have 
struggled  to  the  best  of  my  power  against  two  great 
PmUk  JEtiU,  growing  out  of  the  most  sacred  of  all 
tilings,  Liberty  and  Authority.  In  the  writings 
which  you  are  so  indulgent  as  to  bear,  I  have  strug- 
gled against  the  Tyranny  of  Freedom ;  in  this  my 
longest  and  last  struggle  (the  impeachment,  to  which 
lie  had  alluded  in  the  foregoing  part  of  the  letter) 
I  eostend  against  the  Licentiousness  of  Power. — 
When  I  retire  from  this,  suceessAi)  or  defeated,  your 
work  will  either  add  to  my  sfitisfaction  or  furnish 
Boe  with  com^jirt.  Seeuriarem  et  uberiorem,  male' 
riam  senectuH  seposuiJ* 

The  second  letter  is  interesting  for  the  literary 
criticism  which  it  contains. 

**  I  have  read  the  first  book  (the  ^lanslation  of 
Tacitus)  through,  besides  dipping  here  and  there 
into  other  parts.  I  am  eactremely  delighted' with  it. 
You  have  done  what  hitherto  I  think  has  not  been 

r2 


244  LIFE   OF   THE 

done  in  England ;  you  have  given  us  a  translation  of 
a  Latin  prose  writ^,  which  may  be  read  with  plea- 
sure.    It  would  be  no  compliment  at  all  to  prefer 
your  translation  to  the  last,  which  appeared  with  such 
a  pomp  of  patronage.     Grordon  was  an  author  fashi- 
onable in  his  time,  but  he  never  wrote  any  thing 
worthy  of  much  notice  but  that  work,  by  which  he 
has  obtained  a  kind  of  eminence  in  bad  writing,  so 
that  one  cannot  pass  it  by  with  mere  neglect.     It  is 
dear  to  me  that  he  did  not  understand  the  language 
from  which  he  ventiu*ed  to  translate ;  and  that  he 
had  formed   a   very  whimsical   idea  of  excellence 
with  regard  to  ours.     His  work  is  wholly  remote 
from  the  genius  of  the  tongue  in  its  purity,  or  in 
any  of  its  jargons.     It  is  not  English  nor  Irish,  nor 
even  his  native  Scotch.     It  is  not  fish  nor  flesh,  nor 
good  red-herring :  yours  is  written  with  facility  and 
spirit,  and  you  do  not  often  depart  from  the  genuine 
native  idiom  of  the  language.     Without  attempting, 
therefore,  to  modernize  terms  of  art,  or  to  disguise 
ancient  customs  under  new  habits,  you  have  contrived 
things  in  such  a  manner  that  your  readers  will  find 
themselves  at  home.     The  other  translations  do  not 
familiarise  you  with  ancient  Rome,  they  carry  you 
into  a  new  world.     By  their  uncouth  modes  of  ex- 
pression they  prevent  you  from  taking  an  interest  in 
any  of  its  concerns.     In  spite  of  you  they  turn  your 
mind  from  the  subject,  to  attend,  with  disgust,  to 
their  unskilful  manner  of  treating  it;  from  such 
authors  we  can  learn  nothing. 

^*  I  have  always  thought  the  world  much  obliged 
to  good  translators  like  you.  Such  are  some  of  the 
French.     They  who  understand  the  original,  are 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  S46 

hot  those  who  are  under  the  smallest  obligations  to 
you :  it  is  a  great  satisfaction  to  see  the  sense  of 
one  good  author  in  the  language  of  another.  He  is 
thus  alias  et  idem.  Seeing  your  author  in  a  new 
point  of  view,  you  become  better  acquainted  with 
him ;  his  thoughts  make  a  new  and  deeper  impres- 
sion on  the  mind.  I  have  always  recommended  it 
to  yoimg  men  in  their  studies,  that  when  they  had 
made  themselves  thorough  masters  of  a  work  in  the 
original,  then  (but  not  till  then)  to  read  it  in  a  trans- 
lation, if  in  any  modem  language  a  readable  trans- 
lation was  to  be  found.  What  I  say  of  your  trans- 
lation is  really  no  more  than  very  cold  justice  to  my 
sentiments  of  your  great  undertaking.  I  never 
expected  to  see  so  good  a  translation.  I  do  not  pre- 
tend that  it  is  wholly  free  from  faults,  but  at  the 
same  time  I  think  it  more  easy  to  discover  them 
than  to  correct  them.  There  is  a  style  which  daily 
gains  ground  amongst  us,  which  I  should  be  sorry 
to  see  further  advanced  by  the  authority  of  a  writer 
of  your  just  reputation.  The  tendency  of  the  mode 
to  which  I  allude,  is  to  establish  two  very  different 
idioms  amongst  us,  and  to  introduce  a  marked  dis- 
tinction between  the  English  that  is  written,  and 
the  English  that  is  spoken.  This  practice,  if  grown 
a  little  more  general,  would  confirm  this  distemper, 
such  I  must  think  it,  in  our  language,  and  perhaps 
render  it  incurable. 

^^  From  this  feigned  manner  oifalsetto^  as  I  think 
the  musicians  call  something  of  the  same  sort  in 
singing,  no  one  modem  historian,  Eobertson  only 
excepted,  is  perfectly  free.  It  is  assumed,  I  know, 
to  give  dignity  and  variety  to  the  style ;  but  what- 


246  LIF£   OF   THE 

erar  siieeedB  tlie  ^atteatpt  imay  noam^kae^  hwe,  it  Sm 
Hlwayis  oMlitned  at  the  wp&iBe  of  :p«ri(y  and  of  the 
graces  that  are  natural  aaid  .i^^^^riate  to  cmr  lan- 
guage. It  is  true  that  when  the  exigesce  liiills  for 
tfaadliaries  of  all  sorts,  aad  odmmon  lai^uege  be* 
oc»3fte8  unequal  to  the  demands  ^  extraordmaiy 
ihtaghts,  something  ought  to  be  ccmceded  to  the 
neciessities  which  make  ^  asibitioii  virtue  ;"  but  the 
allowances  to  necessities  ought  not  to  grow  into  a 
practice.  Those  portents  and  prodigies  oi^fat  not 
to  grow  too  common.  If  you  have  here  and  there 
(much  more  rarely  however  than  otii^hs  of  great  and 
mot  unmerited  fame)  fallen  into  adsi  error,  wluch  is 
«ot  that  of  the  dull  or  careless,  you  have  an  author 
who  is  himself  guilty  in  his  own  tongue  of  ibe  same 
fault  in«  very  hi^  degree.  No  author  thinks  more 
deei^y,  or  paints  more  strongly,  but  he  seldom  or 
never  expresses  himself  naturaUy.  It  is  plain  that 
comparing  him  with  Plauius  -and  Terence^  or  the 
beautiful  fragments  of  Publius  Syrus,  he  did  not 
write  the  language  of  good  conversation.  Cicero  is 
much  nearer  to  it.  Tacitus,  and  the  writers  of  his 
time,  have  fallen  into  that  vice  by  aiming  at  a 
poetiofld  style.  It  ie  true  that  eloquence  in  both 
modes  of  rhetoric  is  fundamentally  the  same ;  but 
the  ittfmner  of  handling  is  totally  different,  even 
where  words  and  phrases  may  be  transfer!^  from 
the  one  of  these  departments  of  writing  to  the 
othm'* 

His  niece.  Miss  French,  being  about  to  bestow 
her  hand  upon  Captain  Haviland,  Mr.  Burke  com- 
nranieated  the  circumstance  to  the  gentleman  already 


BIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  S47 

menticmed,  Mr.  Dolphin,  wbose  attentikm  to  hor 
fkmdly  was  Mmembered  with  gratitude,  and  who 
still  possened  the  management  of  its  jpeeuniarj^ 
concemsh— 

"  vo  oitim  DoiiFHm,  bsq.,  jJovaaBOOA,  immhiJKp^ 

. "  My  dear  Sir, 

^'  The  parental  care  which  you  and  Mrs.  Dolphin 
have  had  the  goodhess  to  show  to  my  niece,  Mary 
French,  calls  at  all  times  for  my  gratitude,  and  at 
this  time  for  the  communication  which  I  think  ought 
to  be  made  to  you  of  whatever  is  of  importance  with 
regard  to  her.  I%e  is  at  this  time  on  the  point  of 
engaging  in  an  important  matter  to  all  human  crea- 
tures. A  young  gentleman  in  my  neighbourhood, 
and  whom  I  have  known  from  his  infancy,  has  been 
for  a  good  while  much  attached  to  her,  and  she  has 
shown  a  liking  to  him :  I  bdieve  him  to  be  a  most 
worthy  and  honourable  man,  and  likely  to  rise  in 
the  military  profession ;  it  is  Captain  Haviland  (in 
the  next  promotion  to  be  Major),  son  of  the  late 
General  Haviland.  He  has  something  at  present 
beside  his  commissicm,  not  wholly  inconsiderable, 
and  on  his  mother's  death  will  have  a  reasonably 
good  estate ;  so  that  on  his  side  Mrs.  Burke  and  I 
could  have  no  just  objection  to  their  union. 

^^  In  giving  him  this  young  woman,  I  think  I 
make  him  a  very  valuable  present.  I  do  not  know 
a  better  creature ;  her  temper  is  admirable,  infinite 
good  nature,  a  great  deal  of  piety,  much  affection  to 
her  relations,  and  I  am  sure  a  mind  full  of  love  and 
gratitude  to  you  and  Mrs.  Dolphii^  of  whom  she 


848  LIFE   OF   THE 

never  speaks  without  being  sensibly  affected.  I 
think  these  dispositions  in  her  promise  as  much 
happiness  as  is  to  be  expected  in  any  marriage. 

''  I  now  beg  that  as  you  have  hitherto  been  so 
very  kind  as  to  interest  yourself  in  her  poor  affairs, 
you  will  be  pleased  to  send  over  a  statement  of  them 
so  as  to  enable  us  to  direct  a  proper  settlement ;  and 
that  in  future  you  would  continue  the  protection 
which  has  hitherto  been  matter  of  so  much  advan- 
tage and  consolation  to  her.  I  have  seen  your  son 
Mr.  Dolphin,  though  from  unpleasant  occupations, 
not  so  much  or  so  often  as  I  wished.  I  am  not 
singular  in  a  very  high  opinion  of  the  talents  and 
virtues  of  this  young  gentleman,  and  the  amazing 
progress  which  at  his  time  of  life  he  has  made  in 
whatever  distinguishes  a  man  in  letters  and  leads  to 
professional  distinction.  I  hope  to  be  more  fortunate 
when  he  returns  amongst  us.  Mrs.  Burke  and 
Mary  desire  their  most  affectionate  regards  to  you 
and  Mrs.  Dolphin ;  and  do  me  the  favour  to  believe 
me,  my  dear  Sir, 

*'  Your  most  faithful 

<<  And  obedient  humble  servant, 

«  Edmund  Bukke. 

»  Beaconsfidd^  Nov.  28,  1793." 

Early  in  February  1794,  the  affections  of  Mr. 
Burke  received  a  severe  shock  in  the  death  of  his 
brother  Richard,  with  whom,  and  indeed  witli  all 
his  relatives,  he  had  ever  lived  in  a  degree  of  har- 
mony and  affection  rarely  witnessed  in  the  most 
united  families.  There  was  but  little  difference  in 
their  ages.     They  had  started  nearly  at  the  same 


RIGHT  HON.  EBMUND  BURKE.  1149 

tiine^  and  under  circumstances  nearly  similar,  thougb 
with  very  different  capacities,  to  work  up  the  hill 
of  life  together ;  and  whenever  the  weaker  powers 
of  the  younger  caused  him  to  lag  behind,  the  hand 
of  the  elder  was  immediately  extended  to  aid  him  on 
the  journey.  For  many  years  they  had  but  one 
purse  and  one  house,  and  many  of  their  friendships 
and  pursuits  were  in  common.  The  talents  of 
Richard,  though  bearing  no  comparison  with  those 
of  his  brother,  were  much  above  mediocrity,  and 
would  have  placed  him  high  in  any  sphere  of  life, 
had  not  a  constitutional  vivacity  and  love  of  plea- 
sure rendered  him  less  patient  of  application  than 
his  brother :  he  wrote  extremely  well,  but  wanted 
industry.  Lord  Mansfield,  who  had  formed  a  high 
opinion  of  his  powers,  pronounced  him  a  rising  man 
at  the  bar ;  but  an  inclination  to  politics,  and  the 
acceptance  of  the  situation  of  one  of  the  secretaries 
to  the  Treasury,  in  1782,  and  again  in  1783,  in- 
jured his  prospects  as  a  lawyer,  though,  through 
the  interest  of  his  brother,  he  became  afterwards 
Recorder  of  Bristol,  and  one  of  the  counsel  on  the 
trial  of  Mr.  Hastings.  His  person  was  good ;  his 
features  handsome ;  his  manners  prepossessing ; 
which,  with  his  wit  and  humour,  gave  him  a  ready 
introduction  to  the  fashionable  society  of  the  me- 
tropolis. 

Goldsmith,  with  whom  he  was  in  habits  of  in- 
timacy, characterizes  him  almost  as  happily  as  he 
has  done  his  brother  Edmund — 

*'  Wliile  Dick  with  his  pepper  shall  heighten  the  savour/' 


1 


850  LIFE  OF  THE 

'<  Here  lies  honest  Richatd,  whose  fate  I  mxut  m^  at ; 
Alas,  that  sach  firolic  should  now  be  so  quiet ! 
What  spirits  were  his !  what  wit  and  what  whim  ! 
Now  breaHng  a  jest  and  now  brealdng  a  limb ! 
Now  wrangling  and  gnimbling  to  keep  up  the  ball ! 
No#  teasing  and  vexing,  yet  lang^king  at  all ! 
In  shorty  so  provoking  a  devil  was  Dick, 
That  we  wished  him  full  ten  times  a^y  at  Old  Nick  ; 
But  missing  his  mirth  and  agreeable  vein. 
As  often  we  wished  to  have  Dick  back  again.'' 

One  particular  species  of  the  waggery  here  at- 
tributed to  him  occasionally  afforded  amusement  to 
the  domestic  circle  of  his  brother.  He  claimed  the 
office  it  seems  of  reading  the  newspaper  aloud  every 
morning  at  th^  breakfast  table,  making  such  cxMn- 
ments  on  the  circiitostances  of  the  day  as  his  whim 
and  humour  suggested;  and  #hen  these  proved 
barren  of  matter  for  his  g^us,  he  would  turn  to 
his  brother's  speech  of  the  preceding  night,  read  a 
part  of  it  correctly,  then  suddenly  introduce  scxne- 
thlng  of  his  own  of  quite  an  opposite  purport  to  the 
report,  and  continue  aj^mrently  to  read  with  a  grave 
face  until  interrupted  by  Edmund,  with  the  ex- 
clamation— ^*  This  is  all  wrong,  Dick ;  they  quite 
mistake  me."  A  silent  assent  was  nodded  by  the  wag, 
who  nevertheless  continued  his  teasing  career  of  in- 
vention.— "  These  people,"  again  would  Mr.  Burke 
exclaim,  **  are  quite  malicious  or  foolish  to  make  me 
say  such  things."  The  wit,  still  unmoved  by  the 
simple  perplexity  of  his  brother  at  the  stupidity  ci 
the  reporters,  would  go  on  with  something  still  more 
outrageous  until  finally  stepped  by  the  earnest  and 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMITHD  BURKE.  &61 

solemn  asfiuraiice,  ^  I  declare  to  God,  Dkfe,  I  said 
notMug  of  tkis  kifid." 

When  in  Ae  West  IndSes,  Rkhasd,  It  appeiw, 
ttade  a  piir<^i!ai3e  tehidi  ttdiied  ont  nnfertunate,  tmA 
^thnsbAf  oetaslcmed  him  c^ndSde^aUe  pecuniarf 
loss.  To  tMs  circumaftance  Edmund  allndea  in  ft 
letter  to  Ut.  Nagle,  of  Jnly,  1772^ 

**  Since  my  fepotihei'  came  hotee  he  has  not  been 
negligent  in  iihe  management  of  his  i^ontested  pup- 
idiase.  How  th6  matter  may  finally  terminate  I 
know  not ;  but  hithefrto  he  has  gone  on  so  success*^ 
fully  as  to  obtain  a  report  of  the  Board  of  Trade,  t^ 
oonmiending  to  the  Gc^uncil  the  disallowance  of  the 
act  of  Provincial  Assembly,  which  had  put  him  out 
of  possession  and  declared  his  title  void.  Thus  ht 
he  has  succeeded.  Of  the  quiet  and  unmolested 
possession  I  do  not  despair ;  but  as  it  is  an  affair  of 
magnitude,  so  it  will  be  a  work  of  time  and  patience.'' 
Again  in  August,  1776,  he  says — ^*  Richard  the 
elder  is  in  town.  If  his  business  had  prospered,  you 
would  have  been  one  of  the  first  to  hear  of  it.  But 
we  do  not  trouble  our  firiends  except  with  pleasing 
news.  He  has  had  mueh  wrong  done  to  him  ;  but 
the  thing  is  not  yet  desperate.  I  believe  that  tlie 
Commissioner  who  goes  out  will  hot  have  advarse 
instructions."* 

Mr.  Burke  took  little  share  in  parliamentary 
business  until  the  ses^on  was  pretty  far  advanced, 
and  then  chiefly  by  speaking  in  favour  of  volunta]^ 
subscriptions  and  enrolment  of  troops  as  not  being 
unconstituti(mal,  and  as  an  evidence  to  the  enemy  <tf 

*  New  Monthly  Magazine,  December  1825. 


S52  LIFE  OF   THE 

the  patriotic  spirit  of  the  countiy ;  of  pennittiiig 
foreigners,  more  especially  French  Royalists,  to 
enlist  in  the  British  army ;  and  of  detaining  persons 
suspected  of  designs  against  the  government  He  op- 
posed, as  he  had  before  done,  when  himself  a  professed 
economical  reformer,  a  violent  amputation  of  the  emo- 
luments of  pensions,  sinecures,  and  particularly  of  the 
efficient  offices  of  administration,  in  a  bill  proposed  at 
this  time  by  Mr.  Harrison ;  observing  that  the  amount 
would  be  contemptible  in  itself,  and  the  principle  abso- 
lutely dangerous — **  As  it  went  to  a  direct  invasion  of 
the  rights  and  properties  of  individuals ;  for  the  emo- 
luments of  places  held  under  the  Crown  were  posses- 
sions as  sacred  as  that  of  any  landed  property  in  the 
country,  and  a  motion  might  as  well  be  made  for 
taking  a  certain  part  of  the  property  of  a  man  who 
possessed  an  estate  of  ten  or  twenty  thousand 
a  year/'* 

A  motion  by  General  Fitzpatrick  to  address  his 
Majesty  to  interfere  with  the  King  of  Prussia  for 
the  release  of  La  Fayette,  then  confined  in  one  of 
his  prisons,  drew  from  Burke  the  severest  animad- 
versions upon  that  conceited  pretender  to  patriotism, 
who  by  his  mischievous  yet  contemptible  conduct 
proved  the  origin  and  author  of  most  of  the  calami- 
ties of  France.  Instead  of  being  termed,  he  said,  an 
**  illustrious  exile,"  he  was  then,  and  ought  to  be 
always  considered,  the  outcast  of  the  world,  who 
having  neither  talents  to  guide  nor  in  the  least  to 
influence  the  storm  he  had  so  diligently  laboured  to 
raise,  fled  like  a  dastard  from  the  bloodshed  and 

*  Similar  sentiments  had  been  on  a  former  occasion  declared  by 
Mr.  Fox. 


BIOHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  S53 

massacre  in  which  he  had  involved  so  many  thou- 
sands of  imoffending  persons  and  families. 

In  the  debate  on  the  Volunteer  Bill,  some  squib- 
bing  took  place  between  him  and  Mr.  Sheridan ;  the 
former  observing  that  long  speeches  without  good 
materials  were  sometunes  dangerous  to  venture 
upon,  even  for  a  popiQar  man,  quoting  some  doggrel 
to  that  effect,  printed  in  the  American  war : 

''  Solid  men  of  Boston,  banuh  strong  potatkms, 
Solid  men  of  Boston,  make  no  long  orations. 

Bow,  wow,  wow.** 

When  the  wit,  conceiving  the  first  line,  if  not  the 
second,  might  be  aimed  at  him,  keenly  retorted  by 
saying  that  he  remembered  some  other  lines  from 
the  same  approved  author : 

"  Now  it  hapt  to  the  country  he  went  for  a  hlessing. 
And  from  his  state  daddy  to  get  a  new  lesson ; 
He  went  to  daddy  Jenky,  by  trimmer  Hal  attended 
In  such  company,  good  lack !  how  his  morals  must  be  mended. 

Bow,  wow,  wow." 

On  the  5th  of  March,  he  moved  for  a  committee 
to  inspect  the  Lords'  journals,  relative  to  the  pro- 
ceedings  on  the  trial  of  Mr.  Hastings,  and  to  report 
the  facts  and  their  observations  thereon  to  the 
House.  This  report,  occupying  nearly  200  octavo 
pages,  was  accordingly  made  on  the  17th  of  April, 
and  is  reputed  by  those  who  are  presumed  to  be 
competent  judges  of  the  subject,  which  embraces 
very  important  questions  in  law,  one  of  the  ablest 
and  most  elaborate  papers  that  have  come  from  the 
pen  of  Mr.  Burke.  It  observes  in  detail,  under  the 
various  heads  of  Jurisdiction  of  the  Lords — ^Law  of 


854  LIFE  OF  THE 

ParUtm6Bt*«RaIe  of  Pleading — ^PuMidtf  of  Judges' 
opinions  —  Debates  on  E  vidence — Circumstanttat 
Uvideno^— Practice  of  the  Courts  below — and 
otibers*  as  weU  as  upon  all  mmof  oocurrencea  con-* 
nected  with  the  impeachmwt;  and  the  greatest  source 
of  snqHrise  to  the  reader  will  be  the  recondite  and 
various  knowledge  of  l^;al  fonns^  principles,  and 
history  whieh  it  eadiibits,  atnd  which  must  hereafter 
make  it  a  source  of  interest  to  the  legal  profession, 
upon  which  it  comments  with  so  much  force  and  free- 
dom, but  without  the  least  hostility. 

•'  This  report,'*  sajrs  a  living  lawyer  of  eminence,* 
'^  was  penned  by  Mr.  Burke,  and  may  be  ranked 
among  the  most  valuable  productions  of  his  pen.  It 
turns  on  a  question  of  the  highest  importance,  both 
in  l^slation  and  jurisprudence — ^whether  in  cases 
for  which  neither  the  written  nor  unwritte^  law  of 
a  nation  has  provided  courts  of  IftW  may  make  a 
provision  for  it,  by  conforming  existing  laws  and 
principles  to  it,  or  by  subtracting  it  from  their 
operation.  The  question  occurs  on  a  nice  point  in 
the  doctrine  of  testimony ;  and  to  this  the  descrip- 
tion in  the  report  principally  applies ;  but  it  em- 
Inraoes  the  whole  of  the  subject,  and  abounds  in 
learning  and  profound  observation;  unfortunately 
its  title  is  far  from  alluring,  and  it  has  therefore 
beeu  little  read." 

^*  A  shcort  acopunt,"  adds  a  modem  historian,  **  of 
the  s^it  of  this  document,  and  of  the  principal 
nuitt^*s  which  it  contains,  is  of  high  impcnrtance.  It 
is  a  criticism  not  only  upon  this  trial,  but  upon  the 
1aW»  a  thing  in  this  country  of  great  rarity,  fr<om  a 

*  Charlei  Butler,  Esq. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  S55 

source  of  high  anthoritsr.  It  would  aba  be  a  tking 
of  great  utility,  if  it  would  show  the  people  of  the 
country  what  they  have  been  carefully  disciplined 
not  to  believe,  that  no  greater  service  can  be  ran* 
dered  to  the  community  than  to  expose  the  abuses 
of  the  law ;  without  which  the  hope  of  its  amend- 
ment is  for  ever  excluded  *  *  *  ♦.  Acutely  sensible, 
however,  to  the  spur  of  the  occasion,  he  (Mr.  3urke) 
felt  the  abuses  which  crossed  him  in  his  path.  These 
he  has  displayed  with  his  usual  felicity  of  language ; 
and  these  it  is  of  importance  with  respect  to  the 
Imitative  herd  of  mankind  to  have  stamped  with  the 
seal  of  his  reprobation."* 

The  report  being  published  without  authority  in 
the  form  of  a  pamphlet,  Lord  Thurlow,  the  constant 
friend  of  Mr.  Hastings  in  his  legal  difficulties,  laid 
hold  of  th^  opportunity,  which  the  forms  of  parlia^ 
ment  of  not  noticing  in  one  house  what  is  said  in 
the  other  would  otherwise  have  prevented,  to  vent 
his  indignation  in  the  House  of  Lords  upon  a  publi- 
cation, the  matter  of  which  he  termed  ^^  disgrace- 
ful and  indecent,"  '^  which  tended  to  vilify  and  mi»* 
represent  the  conduct  of  judges  and  magistrates 
entrusted  with  the  administration  of  justice,  and  the 
laws  of  the  country." 

Ob  the  following  day  (May  28d),  Mr.  Burke,  in 
his  plaee,  adverted  to  this  attack  in  a  brief  and 
pointed  reply,  which,  imperfect  as  is  the  report  of 
it,  is  too  masterly  upon  such  a  great  constitutional 
matter  to  be  omitted : 

''  The  license  of  the  present  times,  makes  it  vexy  difficult  to  talk 
upon  certain  subjects  in  which  padiamentaxy  order  is  involved. 

«  MilFs  British  India,  vol  v.  pp.  991—2. 


S56  LIFE  OF  THE 

It  18  diSkidt  to  ipeak  of  them  with  regularity^  or  to  be  rilent 
with  dignity  or  wisdom.  ,  All  our  proceedings  have  been  con- 
stantly  published^  according  to  the  discretion  and  ability  of  in- 
dividuals, with  impunity,  almost  ever  since  I  came  into  Parlia- 
ment. By  prescription  people  had  obtained  something  like  a  right 
to  this  abuse.  1  do  not  justify  it.  The  abuse  is  now  grown  so 
invetemte,  that  to  punish  it  without  a  previous  notice  would 
have  an  appearance  of  hardshipj  if  not  injustice.  These  publLca* 
tions  are  frequently  erroneous  as  well  as  irregular,  but  not  always 
so :  what  they  give  as  reports  and  resolutions  of  this  House  have 
sometimes  been  fairly  given. 

'*  It  has  not  been  uncommon  to  attack  the  proceedings  of  the 
House  itself,  under  colour  of  attacking  these  irr^olar  pubUca* 
tions ;  and  the  House,  notwithstanding  this  colourable  plea,  has, 
in  some  instances;  proceeded  to  punish  the  persons  who  have  thus 
insulted  it.  When  a  complaint  is  made  of  a  piratical  edition  of  a 
work,  the  author  admits  that  it  is  his  work  that  is  thus  piratically 
published;  and  whoever  attacks  the  work  itself  in  these  un- 
authorised publications  does  not  attack  it  less  than  if  he  had  at- 
tacked it  in  an  edition  authorised  by  the  writer. 

''  I  understand,  that  in  a  place  which  I  greatly  respect,  and  by 
a  person  for  whom  I  have  likewise  great  respect,  a  pamphlet,  pub» 
lished  by  a  Mr.  Debrett,  has  been  very  heavily  censured.  That 
pamphlet,  I  hear  (for  I  have  not  read,  it),  purports  to  be  a  report 
made  by  one  of  your  committees  to  this  House.  It  has  been 
censured  (as  I  am  told)  by  the  person  and  in  the  place  I  have 
mentioned  in  very  harsh  and  very  unqualified  terms.  It  has 
been  said,  and  so  far  very  truly,  that  at  all  times,  and  particularly 
at  this  time,  it  is  necessary  for  the  preservation  of  order  and  the 
execution  of  the  law,  that  the  characters  and  reputation  of  the 
Judges  of  the  Courts  in  Westminster  Hall  should  be  kept'  in  the 
highest  degree  of  respect  and  reverence  ;  and  that  in  this 
pamplet,  described  by  the  name  of  a  libel/  the  characters  and 
conduct  of  those  Judges  upon  a  late  occasion  had  been  aspersed, 
as  arising  from  ignorance  or  corruption. 

'*  I  think  it  impossible,  combining  aD  the  circumstances,  not  to 
suppose  that  this  speech  does  reflect  upon  a  report  which,  by  an 
order  of  the  committee  on  which  I  served,  I  had  the  honour  of 
presenting  to  this  House.  For  any  thing  improper  in  that  report, 
I  am  responsible,  as  well  as  the  other  memb^hi  of  the  committee, 
to  this  House,  and  to  this  House  only.    The  matters  contained  in 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE,  867 

it^  aad  tlie  dbiervBtions  upon  them^  are  mibmitted  to  the  wiidoni 
of  the  Hoiue^  that  it  may  act  upon  hoth  in  the  time  and  manner 
that  to  your  judgment  may  seem  moat  expedient^  or  that  you  may 
not  act  upon  them  at  all,  if  you  should  think  it  most  useful  to  the 
public  good.  Your  committee  has  obeyed  your  orders;  it  has 
done  its  duty  in  making  that  report.  I  am  of  opinion  with  the 
eminent  person  by  whom  that  report  is  censured^  that  it  is  neces- 
oazy,  at  this  time  very  particularly  to  preserve  the  authority  of 
the  Judges.  This,  however,  does  not  depend  upon  u»,  but  upon 
ikem$doe$*  It  is  necessary  to  preserve  the  dignity  and  respect  of 
all  the  constitutional  authorities.  This,  too,  depends  upon  our- 
selves. It  is  necessary  to  preserve  the  respect  due  to  the  House 
of  Lords :  it  is  full  as  necessary  to  preserve  the  respect  due  to  the 
House  of  Commons :  upon  which,  whatever  may  be  thought  of 
us  by  some  persons,  the  weight  and  force  of  all  other  authorities 
within  this  kingdom  essentially  depend.  •  If  the  power  of  the 
House  of  Commons  is  degraded  or  enervated,  no  other  can  stanfl. 
We  must  be  true  to  ourselves ;  we  ought  to  animadvert  upon  any 
of  our  members  who  abuse  the  trust  we  place  in  them :  we  must 
support  those  who,  without  regard  to  consequences,  perform  their 
duty. 

"For  your  committee  of  managers,  and  for  myself,  1  must  say, 
that  the  report  was  deliberately  made,  and  does  not,  as  I  con- 
ceive, contain  any  very  material  errors,  or  any  undue  or  indecent 
reflection  upon  any  person.  It  does  not  accuse  the  Judges  of 
ignorance  or  corruption.  Whatever  it  sa3rB,  it  does  not  say  (»lum- 
nioualy.  This  kind  of  language  belongs  to  persons  whose  elo- 
quence entitles  them  to  a  free  use  of  epithets.  The  report  stateS;^ 
that  the  Judges  had  given  their  opinions  secretly,  contnuy  to  the 
almost  uninterrupted  tenor  of  Parliamentary  usage  on  such  occa- 
•lons.  It  states  that  the  opinions  were  given,  not  upon  the  law, 
but  upon  the  cone.  It  states,  that  the  mode  of  giving  the  opinions 
ffya#  unprecedented,  and  contrary  to  the  privileges  of  the  House  of 
Commons.  It  states,  that  the  committee  did  not  know  upon  what 
rules  and  principles  the  judges  had  decided  upon  those  cases,  as  they 
neither  heard  them,  nor  are  they  entered  upon  the  journals.  It 
is  very  true,  diat  we  were  and  are  extremely  dissatisfied  witb 
those  opinions,  and  the  consequent  determination  of  the  Lords, 
and  we  do  not  think  such  a  mode  of  proceeding  at  all  justified  by 
the  most  numerous  and  the  best  precedents.    None  of  these  sen-^ 

VOL.  II.  S 


S5i  LIVE  OF  TH£ 

timents  ave  tlie  oommittee,  as  I  cxmoAre,  (and  I  fbtt  as  littla  as 
any  of  them)  disposed  to  retract  or  to  soften  in  the  smaUest 
degree. 

''  The  report  speaks  for  itself.  Whenever  an  occasion  shall  he 
regularly  given  io  matittotn  every  thing  rf  suhstance  in  thai  paper ^ 
I  shall  be  ready  to  meet  the  proudest  name  for  abilily,  learning,  or 
tank,  that  this  kingdom  contains,  upon  thai  subject.  Do  I  say  this 
from  any  confidence  in  myself?  Far  from  it !  It  is  from  my  con* 
fidence  in  our  cause,  and  in  the  ability,  the  learning,  and  the  oon« 
stitutional  principles,  which  this  House  contains  within  itsdf,  and 
which  I  hope  it  will  ever  contain ;  and  in  the  assistance  wliidi  it 
will  not  fail  to  afford  to  those  who,  with  good  intention,  do  their 
best  to  maintain  the  essential  privileges  of  the  House,  the  ancient 
law  of  Parliament,  and  the  public  justice  of  the  kingdom. 

No  one,  as  may  be  supposed,  seemed  inclined  to 
take  up  the  gauntlet  thrown  down  in  the  concluding 
part  of  this  address.  On  the  20th  of  June,  Mr. 
Pitt  moved  the  thanks  of  the  House  to  the  managers 
<*  for  their  faithful  management  in  their  discharge  of 
the  trust  reposed  in  them,"  which  was  carried.  Mr. 
Burke,  in  the  course  of  his  reply,  observed  with 
great  liberality,  that  prejudices  against  himself 
arising  from  personal  friendship,  or  personal  obliga- 
tions to  the  accused,  were  too  laudable  for  him  to  be 
discomposed  at.  He  had  thrown  no  general  reflec- 
tions on  the  Company's  servants ;  he  had  merely 
repeated  what  Mr.  Hastings  himself  had  said  of  the 
troops  serving  in  Oude ;  and  the  House  had  marked 
their  opinion  of  the  officers  in  the  very  terms  h« 
had  used.  As  for  the  other  expressions  attributed 
to  him,  they  had  been  much  exaggerated  and  mis* 
represented. 

This  was  the  last  day  he  appeared  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  having  immediately  afterwards  accepted 
the  Chiltem  Hundreds. 


EIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUEKE.  259 


To  a  translation  made  some  time  before  this  by 
Mr.  William  Burke,  of  ''  Brissot'a  Address  to  his 
Constituents,'^  Edmimd,  though  without  )us  name, 
game  a  masterly  preface,  whidi,from  exdrting  general 
notice,  caused  some  demand  for  a  book  now  no 
longer  read  by  any  one,  and  whose  very  name,  noth 
withstanding  the  revolutionary  notoriety,  of  the 
autiior,  »  nearly  forgotten.  This  introduction 
sketches  a  concise  but  powerful  portrait  of  the 
Girondist  faction,  its  principles  and  progress  until 
overwhelmed  and  guillotined  by  that  of  Robespi^re 
or  the  Mountain;  but  particularly  of  its  chiefs 
Roland  and  Brissot,  of  the  latter  of  whom  he  says, 

''  He  is  a  ehief  actor  in  all  the  scenes  which  he 
presents.  No  man  can  object  to  him  as  a  royalist  f 
the  rojral  party  and  the  Christian  religion  never 
had  a  more  determined  enemy.  In  a  word,  it  is 
Brissot — ^it  is  Brissot  the  republican,  the  jacobin, 
and  philosopher,  who  is  brought  to  give  an  account 
of  jacobinism,  and  of  republicanism,  and  of  phi* 
loeophy." 

Immediately  after  the  conclusion  of  the  session, 
in  July,  1794,  the  junction  of  the  Portland  party 
with  Ministry,  which  previously  existed  in  fact, 
tocdk  place  in  form  by  the  Duke  receiving  a  blue 
riband,  the  office  of  Third  Secretary  of  State  with 
the  management  of  Ireland;  Sari  Fitzwilliam 
becoming  at  first  President  of  the  Council,  and  then 
Lord  Lieutenant  of  that  country ;  Rarl  Spencer, 
Lord  Privy  Seal,  and  soon  afterward  First  Lord  of 
the  Admiralty;  and  Mr.  Windham,  Secretary  at 
War ;  Lord  Loughborough  afaready  held  the  offiee  of 
Lord  Chaiicellor. 

s  2 


S60  LIFE   OF  THK 

This  union,  which  was  effected  by  Mr.  Burke, 
from  a  conviction  of  its  being  intimately  connected 
with  the  safety  of  the  country,  was  stigmatized  by 
the  inconsiderate  friends  of  Mr.  Fox,  as  an  inter- 
ested desertion  of  him,  their  liege  lord — as  ah  act  of 
moral  rebellion  against  him  whom  they  were  politi- 
cally boimd  to  honour  and  obey.  This  story  being 
still  occasionally  told,  a  single  retrospective  glance 
at  the  history  of  the  party  may  serve  to  show  its 
untruth — and  that  he  in  fact  deserted  them,  and  not 
they  him. 

It  will  be  recollected  that  on  being  dismissed  from 
his  connexion  with  Ministry,  by  a  contemptuous 
note  from  Lord  North  in  1774,  Mr.  Fox,  as  might 
be  expected,  joined,  in  fact  if  not  in  name,  that 
division  of  opposition  of  which  the  Marquis  of 
Rockingham  was  the  head,  and  Mr.  Burke  the 
efficient  leadei:  and  soul  in  the  House  of  Ciommons. 
His  admiration  of  the  latter,  which  even  at  this 
time  was  unreserved,  as  well  perhaps  as  a  family 
disinclination  to  range  himself  under  the  banners  of 
his  father's  former  adversary.  Lord  Chatham,  who 
led  the  other  branch  of  the  Minority,  might  have 
strengthened  this  determination ;  but  in  point  of 
fact  the  Rockingham  party  contained  by  far  the 
greater  portion  of  talents,  as  well  as  of  numbers ; 
in  its  general  principles  he  professed  his  warm 
acquiescence,  and  it  promised  the  readiest  road  to 
power.  A  direct  junction  with  it  was  therefore  the 
most  obvious  step  which  an  ambitious  man,  in  fur* 
tfaerance  of  his  own  views,  could  well  take.  Mr. 
Burke,  in  a  most  friencQy,  and  indeed  affectionate 
lett^  already  alluded  to,  written  to  him  to  Ireland, 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  261 

in  October  1777*  and  beginning  My  dear  Charles^ 
instead  of  attempting  to  bias  his  choice  of  political 
friends  by  undue  persuasion,  expressly  says^  '*  Do 
not  be  in  haste.  Lay  your  foundations  deep  in 
public  opinion.  Though  (as  you  are  sensible)  I  have 
nev-er  given  you  the  least  hint  of  advice  about 
joining  yourself  in  a  declared  connexion  with  our 
party,  nor  do  I  now ;  yet,  as  I  love  that*  party  very 
well,  and  am  clear  that  you  are  better  able  to  serve 
them  than  any  man  I  know ;  I  wish  that  things 
should  be  so  kept  as  to  leave  you  mutually  very 
open  to  one  another  in  all  changes  and  contingen- 
cies ;  and  I  wish  this  the  rather,  because  in  order  to 
be  very  great,  as  I  am  anxious  you  should  be 
(always  presuming  that  you  are  disposed  to  make  a 
good  use  of  power),  you  will  certainly  want  sbmie 
better  support  than  merely  that  of  the  crown."* 

The  choice  of  his  associates  was  therefore  volun- 
tarily, no  doubt  wisely,  and  at  least  deliberately 
made  by  Mr.  Fox.  He  acceded  ultimately  to  the 
Rockingham  party  and  to  its  principles  in  form ;  he 
dissented  from  it  in  no  matter  of  moment ;  on  the 
contrary  acknowledging,  after  the  death  of  the  Mar- 
quis, the  Duke  of  Portland  and  Earl  Fitzwilliam  as 
the  new  heads  of  the  connexion,  and  consulting 
them  on  all  public  measures,  with  the  deference  due 
to  their  rank  and  public  weight  in  the  country  imtil 
the  occurrence  of  the  French  Revolution,  when  his 
views  either  changed,  or  at  least  when  the  change 
became  obvious  to  his  coadjutors. 
*    By  this  time,  however,  he  had  formed  a  consider- 

^  Burke's  Works^  yoL  ix.  Syo.  ed.  p.  156. 


fi68  LIFE   OF  THE 

able  party  of  his  own.  He  had  gathered  around  him 
a  number  of  ingenious  and  able  men,  niany  of  them 
young,  dome  of  them  abnost  grown  up  tmder  his 
eye  in  Parliament,  who,  attracted  by  the  splendour 
of  his  talents  and  reputation,  eagerly  sought  his 
friendship,  embraced  his  opinions,  and  who,  dis* 
r^;arding  or  not  acknowledging  any  other  influence* 
looked  to  him  alone  as  their  leader.  In  return  for 
this  distinction,  he  probably  found  it  necessary  to 
accommodate  some  of  his  opinions  to  theirs ;  and 
fbe  eventful  scenes  passing  in  France  being  well 
calculated  to  engage  in  their  favour  the  ardent  feel- 
ings of  these  friends  as  well  as  his  own  to  a  con- 
siderable degree,  in  addition  to  the  hope  of  strong 
popular  support,  the  re-action  of  sudi  mingled 
feelings  and  expectations  upon  each  other  probably 
produced  that  degree  of  heat  in  the  cause  he  had 
now  embraced,  and  that  dissent  from  his  more 
ancient  connexions  whidi  had  hitherto  been  evident 
only  on  the  single  question  of  parliamentary  reform. 
It  was  also  urged  by  his  adherents,  tiiat  his  views 
and  principles  in  public  affairs  were  more  on  a  level 
with  the  free  and  enlightened  spirit  of  the  age  than 
those  of  Mr.  Burke,  who  was  represented  as  fettered 
by  <dd  systems  and  prejudices,  and  too  strong  an 
adherence  to  the  notions  of  the  aristocracy  in  matters 
of  government. 

Whatever  be  the  cause,  just  at  the  critical  moment 
in  question,  Mr.  Fox  appeared  to  push  to  excess  in 
theory,  and  seeming  approval  in  practice,  doctrines 
which  the  Old  Whigs,  as  well  as  others,  conceived 
to  be  at  variance  with  sound  discretion.  ^  In  my 
journey  with  them  through  life»"  said  Mr.  Burke, 


RIGHT  HQK.   EDMUND  BURltE.  268 

"  I  met  Mr.  Fox  ia  my  toad,  and  I  travelled  with 
hkn  very  cheerfully  as  long  as  he  appeared  to  me  to 
pursue  the  same  direction  with  those  in  whose  eomr 
pany  I  set  out.  In  <he  latter  stage  of  our  progress 
a  new  scheme  of  liberty  and  equality  was  produced 
in  the  world,  which  either  dazzled  his  imagination, 
or  was  suited  to  some  new  walks  of  ambition  which 
were  then  opened  to  his  view.  The  whole  frame 
and  fashion  of  his  politics  appeared  to  have  suffered 
about  that  time  a  very  material  alteration." 

At  tlus  period  he  withdrew  his  political  allegiance 
from  the  acknowledged  heads  of  the  party,  who  were 
no  longer  consulted  on  any  of  his  measures ;  and  in 
Parliament  he  treated  with  asperity  and  ridicule 
their  opinions  and  their  fears  for  the  public  safety. 
Still,  with  the  exception  of  Mr.  Burke  and  a  few 
others,  the  nugority  were  unwilling  to  come  to  an 
open  rupture ;  they  were  loth  to  quit  him,  and  yet 
knew  not  how,  with  propriety  or  satisfaction  to 
themselves,  to  continue  to  act  with  him ;  and  it  was 
not  one  of  the  least  curious  anomalies  of  the  time 
to  hear  many  who  gave  him  their  votes  and  general 
support  in  the  House,  condemn  their  own  votes  and 
all  hid  proceedings  in  detail,  the  moment  they  quitted 
it.  The  general  belief  was,  that  time  and  expe^ 
xience  would  produce  an  alteration  of  sentiments 
as  the  crimes  of  the  revolutionists  became  developed. 
More  than  three  years'  experience,  however,  cour- 
vinced  the  whole  of  that  body  that  his  co«operation 
was  not  to  be  expected ;  the  junction,  as  already 
stated,  therefore  took  place,  but  the  deliberate  con- 
sideration that  preceded,  and  the  pecuniary  arrange- 
ments which  attended  it,  so  far  as  ha  was  concerned, 


864  LIFS   OF   TfiB 

* 

left  him  without  the  slightest  cause  for  complaint. 
It  was  petulant,  therefore,  and  incorrect  on  the  part 
of  his  partizans  to  accuse  them  of  deserting  him, 
when,  as  has  been  said,  the  contrary  might  be  said  to 
be  nearer  to  the  truth.  T^hey  were  the  head  of  the 
connexion ;  to  their  system  he  had  acceded ;  and  if 
he  found  cause  to  dissent  from  the  general  principles 
which  they  had  always  hitherto  acknowledged,  the 
difference  could  not  be  justly  laid  to  their  charge. 

The  conduct  of  this  body  indeed  at  the  moment 
displayed  any  thing  rather  than  undue  eagerness  for 
power.  The  first  deteniiination  of  the  Duke  of 
Portland  and  Mr.  Windham  was  not  to  accept  of 
office,  believing  that  more  support  might  be  given 
to  government  by  an  open  and  uninfluenced  vote  in 
Parliament  than  by  becoming  officially  connected 
with  it — a  disinterested  and  patriotic  idea  certainly, 
but  not  perhaps  a  very  sound  conclusion  in  the  busi- 
ness of  governing  a  kingdom.  Mr.  Biirke  soon 
taught  them,  and  was  well  enabled  to  teach  themf, 
better ;  for  long  and  hardly-earned  experience  had 
satisfied  him,  in  his  own  case  if  in  no  other,  how 
comparatively  useless  are  the  most  splendid  talents 
and  the  best  intentions,  without  the  possession  of 
power  to  give  them  effect.  It  is  to  his  honour,  that 
the  handsome  annuity  settled  by  the  party  on  Mr. 
Fox  previous  to  their  final  separation,  met  with  his 
warm  approval. 

Several  attempts  had  been  previously  made  by 
mutual  friends  to  bring  these  distinguished  men  to 
something  like  their  former  intimacy;  but  Burke 
constantly  observed  that  it  would  be  mere  mockery 
to  meet  in  a  formal  interview,  when  their  radical 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  865 

dilBTerences  of  political  principle  precluded  either  unity 
of  feeling  or  erf  action.  •*  My  separation  from  Mr. 
Fox,"  said  he,  **  iaa  principle  and  not  a  passion ; 
I  hold  it  a  sacred  duty  while  the  present  disorgan- 
izing system  continues  in  operation  in  Europe,  to 
confirm  what  I  have  said  and  written  against  it  by 
this  sacrifice,  and  it  is  no  trifling  test  of  my  sincerity* 
To  me  the  loss  is  great ;  but  to  what  purpose  would 
be  our  meeting  when  our  views  and  conduct  con- 
tinue  so  essentially  at  variance  ?  I  could  take  no 
delight  with  him,  nor  he  probably  with  me." 

A  calamity  now  overtook  Mr.  Burke  of  the  most 
grievous  as  well  as  the  most  imexpected  description, 
which  all  his  religion  and  philosophy  were  in  vain 
exerted  to  siumount,  and  which  fell  with  additional 
weight  from  being  so  shortly  preceded  by  the  loss  of 
his  brother.  This  was  the  death  of  his  son,  Mr.  Richard 
Burke,  on  the  2nd  August,  1794,  at  the  early  age  of 
thirty-six.  His  health,  although  for  some  time  in  an 
unsettled  state,  was  so  far  from  proving  a  source  of 
uneasiness  or  apprehension  to  the  fond  father,  that 
he  had  looked  forward  with  anxiety  to  the  moment 
when,  by  his  own  retirement  from  Parliament,  he 
ishould  be  enabled  to  give  him  that  opportunity  for 
taking  part  in  public  affairs  to  which  he  conceived 
his  talents  in  every  way  equal.  Accordingly,  imme- 
diately after  he  had  vacated  his  seat,  they  both  pro- 
ceeded to  Malton,  and  the  parliamentary  return  of 
his  son  for  the  borough,  according  to  his  anxious 
desire,  took  place.  The  latter,  on  the  next  day, 
addressed  the  following  affectionate  letter  to  his 
cousin,  now  become  Mrs.  Haviland :— 


s66  life  of  tub 

'<  My  d£A»£0T  Maby^ 

«<  I  caanot  let  this  post,  which  is  the  first  after  my 
ekctioa,  go  out  without  fissnuing  you  of  my  most 
atfectioQate  remembrance,  and  giving  you  the  satis- 
faction of  receiving  one  of  my  first  francs,  as  I  am 
sure  there  is  no  person  who  takes  a  more  sincere  in* 
terest  in  any  good  ev^it  that  can  b^al  me.  I  should 
have  written  to  you  from  London,  but  that  the  hurry 
I  was  in  for  some  da)^  before  I  left  town  rendered 
it  nearly  impossible.  We  have  been  much  gratified 
by  Captain  Haviland's  constant  correspondence 
from  Tonbridge  and  by  your  very  good  letters,  whidh 
show  how  little  excuse  you  had  for  writing  so  little 
before.  But  I  see  you  are  resolved  to  get  rid  of  all 
your  faults,  which  were,  however,  neither  numerous 
nor  important  ones. 

*^  I  have  by  no  means  forgot  your  bracelets,  and  I 
hope  you  will  be  pleased  with  them  as  a  token  of  my 
affection,  though  my  purse  does  not  enable  me  to 
make  it  very  worthy  of  you.  Nor  have  I  forgot 
Captain  Haviland's  commission ;  Mr.  Greenwood  (I 
diink  his  name  is)  the  agent  tdd  me  Colonel  Forbes's 
regiment  would  be  complete  in  about  a  month.  My 
love  to  Captain  Haviland  and  Mrs.  Carey,  who  I 
suppose  is  still  with  you. 

"  Your*s  ever, 

"  Richard  Bubke.'* 

The  father  was  further  gratified  by  having  him 
appointed  secretary  to  his  friend  Earl  FitzwiUiam, 
the  new  viceroy  of  Ireland ;  and  at  a  dinner  given  to 
several  friends  on  their  return  to  town,  he  was  anti- 
cipating for  him,  wholly  unconscious  of  the  impend- 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  SSl 

ing  danger,  a  brilliant  career  of  senrioe  in  that  conn* 
try,  although  the  guests  viewed  his  hectic  and  dis- 
ordered countaianee  with  very  different  emotions. 
None  of  these,  notwithstanding  their  intimacy,  ven<- 
tured  to  express  their  fears.  Neither  did  the  physi- 
cians think  it  prudent  to  alarm  him  by  premature 
disclosure,  in  case  of  the  disease,  which  was  judged 
to  be  a  decline,  proving  gradual  and  lingering ;  Dr. 
Brocklesby  giving  it  as  his  opinion,  from  perfect 
acquaintance  with  the  strong  paternal  affection  and 
sensitive  feelings  of  Mr.  Burke,  that  a  knowledge  of 
the  real  nature  of  the  disease  and  of  the  danger  at- 
tending it,  would  probably  prove  fatal  to  him  sooner 
than  to  his  son.  Cromwell  House  at  Brompton  was 
however  taken  for  him  by  their  advice^  to  be  in  the 
air,  and  yet  near  to  town  preparatory  to  his  journey 
to  Ireland.  Here  he  became  rapidly  worse ;  and 
concealment  being  no  longer  possible,  the  melancholy 
truth  was  at  l^igth  communicated,  just  a  week  before 
the  fetal  event  occurred,  to  the  father ;  who,  from 
this  time  till  the  fate  of  his  offspring  was  decided, 
slept  not,  scarcely  tasted  food,  or  ceased  from  the 
most  affecting  lamentations ;  seeming  to  justify  the 
prediction  of  the  phjrsidan,  that  had  it  been  commu- 
nicated to  him  sooner  his  own  death  might  have  been 
the  result. 

In  the  ck)sing  scene  itself  there  were  some  cir- 
cumstances sufficiently  affecting ;  but  of  these  Dr. 
Frendi  Laurence,  the  civilian,  and  afterwards  wdl 
known  in  Parliament,  the  intimate  friend  of  Mr. 
Buike,  and  a  constant  visitor  at  his  house,  must  be 
the  historian.  A  series  of  his  letters,  addressed  to  the 
senior  Mr«.  Haviland,  descriptive  of  the  melancholy 


268  LIFE   OF   THE 

scenes  now  passing  in  the  family,  exists,  whidi  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  submitting  to  the  reader.  They 
are  riot  merely  well,  but  pathetically  written ;  evinc- 
ing all  that  feeling  and  commiseration  which  one 
generous  mind  suffers  in  witnessing  the  affliction  of 
another,  and  that  other  a  great  and  admired  man,  as 
well  as  an  esteemed  friend. 

"  My  dear  Madam,  «  August  ist,  1794. 

'^  As  Dr.  King  undoubtedly  communicated  to  you 
the  melancholy  contents  of  my  yesterday's  letter,  you 
will  certainly  be  anxious  to  know  whether  another 
day  has  brought  any  new  hope.  There  is  a  little, 
feeble  and  faint.  The  sentence  is  at  least  respited 
for  a  time.  A  second  letter  from  Mr.  Burke  yester- 
day in  the  evening,  informed  me  that  the  physiciaiis 
forbade  him  to  despair.  At  the  same  time  I  received 
a  note  from  Dr.  Brocklesby,  at  whose  house  I  had 
called,  and  this  morning  I  have  seen  him.  He  says 
there  is  no  such  immediate  danger  as  his  father 
apprehends,  but  he  fears  the  ultimate  event. 

*^  The  disorder  is  a  consumption,  which  has  how- 
ever not  yet  actually  reached  the  substance  of  the 
lungs,  but  has  spread  to  the  lower  part  of  the  trachea, 
as  it  is  technically  called,  or  the  wind-pipe.  It  is  ' 
supposed  to  have  extended  as  far  as  the  point  where 
the  tube  divides  itself  into  two  branches.  The 
family  are  with  poor  Richard  in  country  lodgings  a 
little  beyond  Brompton.  It  is  a  house  of  mourning 
indeed,  a  scene  of  affliction,  Dr.  Brocklesby  says, 
almost  too  much  for  him,  who,  as  a  phjrsician,  is 
inured  to  these  sights,  and  in  some  degree  callous 
to  them.  Mrs.  Burke,  he  says,  sustains  herself 
nobly,    to  keep  np  the  fortitude   of  her  husband. 


BIGHT  HOK.  EDMT7KD  BUEKE.  S69 

Mr.  Burke  writes  to  me  that  she  sedcs  tran- 
quillity in  prayer;  he  is  himself  (as  he  tells  me) 
almost  dried  up ;  there  is  however,  in  his  last  letter, 
plainly  a  gleam  of  hope,  and  a  tone  of  comparative 
calmness  of  spirit.  The  conclusion  of  his  first  letter 
was  highly  affecting.  He  ended  with  an  abrupt 
exclamation,  **  Oh  !  my  brother  died  in  time." — 
Some  of  them  wrote  to  William  Burke  yesterday ; 
I  should  otherwise  have  written.  The  letter  was 
franked  I  suppose  by  poor  Richard. — Present  my 
best  compliments  to  all  your  society.  I  write  in 
great  haste.     Adieu. 

**  Dear  madam, 

"  Very  sincerely, 
^^  Your  afflicted  humble  servant, 

**  P.  Laurence." 

*<  DeaE  Madam,  <<  August  4th«  1794k 

"  When  I  shortly  informed  you  of  the  melan- 
choly event  on  Saturday,  I  was  acquainted  with 
the  event,  and  nothing  more,  from  the  mouth  of 
Dr.  Brocklesby.  Some  of  the  particulars  I  have 
since  collected,  as  well  as  I  could ;  and  as  every  little 
circumstance  must  be  interesting  to  you,  who  had 
known  him  from  his  infancy,  I  shall  faithfully  relate 
to  you  what  I  have  heard.  It  may  afflict  you,  but 
there  is  a  pleasure  in  such  sorrow,  which  he  who 
cannot  taste,  deserves  to  be  pitied. 

"  From  my  former  letters  to  Dr.  King  and  your- 
self, you  know  every  thing  till  the  night  previous 
to  his  death.  During  that  night  he  was  restless  and 
discomposed.  In  the  morning  his  lips  were  observed 
to  have  become  black.  His  voice,  however,  was 
better,  and  for  the  first  time  since  his  attack  on  the 


270  I.IFE   OF  THU 

preceding  Monday,  some  assee'  milk  and  some  other 
little  ffidtentoce  whidi  he  took,  vevained  q[uaetljr 
OB  im  stomach.  But  his  father  and  mother  did 
not  auffw  thettselves  to  be  too  mudi  flattered  by 
these  favoiyrable  symptoms,  which  might  be,  wfast 
they  too  surely  proved  to  be  in  the  event  Their 
lamentations  reached  him  where  he  lay.  He  instant^ 
arose  from  his  bed,  and  to  make  his  emadatad 
aiqvearance  less'shoddng  to  his  parents,  changed 
his  linen  and  washed  himself;  he  then  desired  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Webster^*  whose  tender  care  of  him  was 
unremitting,  to  support  him  towards  the  door  of 
the  room  where  his  father  and  mother  were  sitting 
in  tears.  As  soon  as  he  arrived  at  the  door,  he 
exerted  himself  to  spring  forward  alone,  and  tread- 
ing firmly,  (as  you  remember  was  his  usual  mode 
of  walking,  but  then  treading  so  more  studiously  for 
the  purpose  of  convincing  his  father  how  little  his 
streqgih  was  diminished)  he  crossed  the  room  to  the 
window,  and  afterwards  to  the  quarter  where  they 
were.  He  endeavoured  to  enter  into  conversation 
with  his  father,  but  grief  keeping  the  latter  silent, 
he  aaid,  after  some  observations  on  his  own  condi- 
tion, '*  Why,  Sir,  do  you  not  chide  me  for  these  un* 
manly  feelings?  I  am  under  no  terror;  I  feel 
myself  better  and  in  spirits,  yet  my  heart  flutters  I 
know  not  why.  Pray  talk  to  me.  Sir ;  talk  of  reli- 
gion, talk  of  morality,  talk  if  you  will  on  indifferent 
subjects."  Then  turning  round,  he  asked,  **  What 
noise  is  that?  Does  it  rain?  Oh!  no;  it  is  the 
rustling  of  the  wind  through  the  trees ;''  and  imme- 
diately with  a  voice  as  dear  as  ever  in  his  life,  with 

*  Old  and  fluthful.Mrvants  in  th«  family. 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  f71 

the  most  correct  and  impressive  delivery,  and  a 
more  than  common  ease  and  grace  of  action,  he 
repeated  three  beautifnl  lines  from  Adam's  morning 
hymn  in  Milton.  You  will  certainly  anticipate  me 
in  the  lines ;  they  are  favonrite  lines  of  his  father's, 
and  were  so,  as  I  recollect,  of  his  poor  imcle,  to 
whom  he  was  then  going  with  these  very  lines  on 
his  tongue. 

''  His  praise^  ye  winds,  that  from  four  quarters  blow. 
Breathe  soft  or  loud ;  and  wave  your  tops,  ye  pines. 
With  er'iy  plant  in  sign  of  worship  wave." 

He  began  again,  and  again  pronounced  the  verses 
with  the  same  happiness  of  elocution  and  gesture, 
waved  his  head  in  sign  of  worship,  and  worshipping, 
sunk  into  the  arms  of  his  parents  as  in  a  profound 
and  sweet  sleep. 

^  Afflicted  as  I  have  been  for  this  year  past  with 
the  apprehension  of  this  calamity,  I  now,  on  calm 
consideration,  thank  Ood  for  all  the  circumstances 
of  his  end ;  since  his  departure  was  fixed  in  the  in- 
scrutable purposes  of  Providence.  I  thank  God,  that 
his  father  and  mother  did  not  seriously  feel  his 
danger  till  the  last  week  of  his  life ;  I  thank  him 
that  they  had  some  short  time  of  preparation ;  and 
I  thank  Him  also  that  they  were  not  doomed  for 
whole  months,  as  the  physician  had  expected,  to 
languish  and  consume  themselves  with  unavailing 
sorrow  over  a  beloved,  and  justly  beloved  son,  dying 
by  inches  before  their  eyes. 

'*  The  behaviour  of  our  two  poor  remaining 
friends  is  such  as  might  be  expected  from  them  by 
those  who  rightly  knew  both  their  sensibility  and 
strength  of  reason :  though  perhaps  for  the  exertion 
of  the  latter  under  so  severe  a  dispensation,  we  hardly 


872  UFK  OF  THE 

gare  them  sufficient  credit.  During  the  first  day, 
the  father  was  at  times,  as  I  have  heard,  truly  ter- 
rible in  his  grief.  He  occasionally  worked  himself 
up  to  an  agony  of  affliction,  and  then  bursting  away 
from  all  controul,  would  rush  to  the  room  where 
h]3  son  lay,  and  throw  himself  headlong,  as'  it  hap- 
pened, on  the  body,  the  bed,  or  the  floor.  Yet  at 
intervals  he  attended  and  gave  directions  relative  to 
every  little  arrangement,  which  their  situation  ren- 
dered necessary,  pleasing  himself  most  with  thinking 
what  would  be  most  consonant  to  the  living  wishes 
and  affections  of  his  lost  son. 

*^  At  intervals  too  he  would  argue  against  the 
ineffectual  sorrow  of  his  wife.  She,  on  the  other 
band,  sometimes  broke  into  fits  of  violent  weeping, 
sometimes  showed  a  more  quiet  but  a  more  deter- 
mined grief,  and  at  other  times  again  a  more  serene 
composure  than  her  husband.  Instead  of  dashing 
herself  down,  like  him,  she  only  lamented,  that  when 
on  Thursday,  by  an  accidental  fall  she  sprained  her 
wrist,  *  it  had  not  been  her  neck : '  but  when  her 
husband  attempted  to  persuade  her,  that  she  had  no 
business  still  to  remain  in  the  house,  she  answered 
steadily,  '  No,  Edmund ;  while  he  remains  here  I 
will  not  go/  I  am  happy,  however,  to  inform  you 
that  on  Saturday  evening  she  took  and  gave  a  pro- 
mise that  neither  of  them  would  ever  enter  more 
the  chamber  where  their  son  lay.  They  have  re- 
pented ;  both  however  have  fulfilled  their  mutual 
promises,  and  she  has  consented,  notwithstanding 
her  resolution  above  mentioned,  to  leave  the  house 
this  day. 

**  This  letter  is  longer  than  I  intended,  or  than 
my  time  can  well  afford.     But  you,  I  am  sure,  will 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  278 

not  think  it  too  minute :  yon  will  rather  find  ten 
thousand  omissions  of  things,  into  which  you  would 
enquire ;  and  I  perhaps  could  have  added  many 
things,  if  I  had  stopped  to  consider  what  I  should 
write.  Yet  on  the  whole,  if  I  can  trust  the  infor- 
mation of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nugent  and  Mrs.  Carey,  com- 
pered with  what  I  received  from  the  servant  of  our 
departed  friend,  I  helieve  I  have  given  you  a  suffi- 
ciently correct  notion  in  general  of  the  circumstances 
attending  the  fatal  event,  as  well  as  the  present  situ- 
ation of  things  in  that  miserahle  ruin  of  a  family. 

**  On  Saturday,  I  understand,  that  I  shall  prohahly 
be  at  Beaconsfield. — Oh!  God!  on  what  an  occa- 
sion ! — perhaps  for  the  last  time,  except  in  transient 
visits  to  those  friends  there,  whom  I  shall  ever 
esteem. 

*^  Most  sincerely, 

"  Your*s  ever,    - 

"  French  Lawrence. 

"  P.  S.  I  have  just  received  a  note  from  Dr.  King. 
He  says,  *  none  or  little  change  yet  for  the  better.' 
Dupont,  who  brought  it  to  me,  tells  me  that  after 
poor  Richard  sunk  down,  he  was  undressed  and 
put  to  bed,  where  poor  Jane  Burke,  rubbing  him 
with  vinegar,  or  any  other  such  vain  methods  of 
recalling  his  fleeting  spirit,  received  one  last  sigh, 
and  with  her  own  hand  then  closed  his  eyes  for  ever.'* 

«  Dear  Madam,  «  August  7th,  179*. 

^  At  last  I  have  seen  poor  Burke.  His  grief 
was  less  intolerable  than  I  had  supposed.  He  took 
me  by  surprise,  or  I  should  then  have  avoided  him. 

VOL.  II.  T 


Vr*  LIFB  OF  THB 

Hte  toid  me  he  was  biiiiguighis  miad  hy  degraei  to 
his  Biiserable  situatioB,  and  he  laiBented  that  lie 
went  to  tee  his  son  after  deaiA^  as  itk  dead  ntwntff 
lianoe  las  made  sEch  an  iiiipressioii  cm  Ms  imagi- 
naltion  titBt  he  camiot  retrace  ia.  lA  memoty  the  fe»- 
tores  and  air  6F  Ids  living  BiduiM.  He  did  net  stajr 
longiiiliie  rooBA,  but  from  Dr.  Kimgf  iii4iom  I  also  saw 
last  night  for  the  first  tune,  I  letaked  mor^^aMieiilaifi. 

<<  He  confirmed  the  accounts  which  I  gave  you 
in  my  former  letters,  with  some  s^ght  diffilrttices. 
His  falter  was  aione  in  the  M6m  wh^t  he  walked 
in  as  I  informed  y^n,  but  the  sabe^ueat  coAversa- 
tiofn  did  not  pass  there.  After  staying  a  very  short 
time,  p6or  Richard  retarned  t6  hi6  bed^amber  aid 
laid  Mmself  on  his  bed.  R  was  i^hen  4ihe  eon^^^fte- 
tion  took  place  in  presence  of  both  his  parents,  aad 
when  he  asked  if  it  tained,  hs  father,  and  not  him- 
self, explained  what  4;he  •catfse  really  was— the  wind 
rustling  through  the  frees.  On  which,  after  twice 
repeating  the  lines  from  Milton,  he  sunk  into  the 
arhtS  of  his  jlanents,  and  a  short  struggle  eHHwing, 
Mrs.  Bttrke  was  {nrevailed  tt^n  to  retire^  4ifl  JDlr. 
King  announced  to  her  that  all  wasovcfr. 

^*  Yesterday,  for  the  first  titne, 'Mr.  and  MM.  Burke 
ate  their  dinner ;  "but  he  with  more  ajlpetite  wmr 
parbtively  than  she  did.  He  has  in  general  slqrt 
•Inretty  well.  She  I  belter  not  '^so  'WeB.  William 
Burke  has  conie,  but  has  'nbt  yet  seen  i;hiem.  fie 
weeps  like  a  child. 

**  I  went  or  sent  yesterday  'to  all  the  newspapers, 
and  got  promises  'that  the  paragraph  *  should  luN;  be 

^  The  purport  of  the  paragraph  here  alluded  to  does  not  appear, 
but  it  pfobably  related  to  some  of  the  circumstances  in  the'Buike 
family  connected  with  the  loss  they  had  just  experienced. 


RIGHT  HPN.  BDMUND  BURKE.  475 

maerM^.  At  onp  place  I  learn  that  it  actually  iraa 
cut  out  for  the  purpose  of  being  inserted.  At  the 
Herald  office  I  was  told  that  it  actually  came  from  a 
corre8poii4ent  in  the  country,  and  that  it  was  in  a 
female  hand-writing.  They  assured  me  that  they 
would  stop  and  send  to  me  any  thing  in  fixture  com- 
municated to  them  on  the  same  (^ulgect,  if  any  such 
should  reach  them ;  at  the  same  time  they  observed 
that  they  could  not  answer  that  they  might  not  put 
in  paragraphs  from  the  same  quarter,  which,  being 
difltant  allusions,  they  might  not  understand,  though 
the  lady  and  myself,  as  well  as  our  friends,  might 
yery  well  know  what  was  meant. 

^*  I  am,  dear  Madam, 

**  Very  sincerely,  your*s  ever, 

•*  F.  Lawrence." 

«  My  dear  MaBAM,  «  Augast  12,  J794. 

^*  At  last  I  have  had  the  pleasure  (I  may  truly  say 
under  the  circumstances)  of  seeing  our  dear  Mrs. 
Burke ;  and  I  have  the  satisfaction  of  informing  you 
that  I  found  her  better  than  I  was  taught  to  expect. 

**  After  the  first  noeet^ng  she  was  more  composed 
thaQ  he,  or  she  played  her  part  more  naturally  in 
order  not  to  discompose  him.  When  I  was  sepa^ 
rated  frt>m  her  arms,  he  took  me  by  the  hand,  and 
spoke  to  me  with  a  tone  of  artificial  and  laborious 
fortitude :  she  saw  through  the  disguise  and  gently 
reproved  him  for 'not  supporting  himself  as  he  pro- 
mised. She  entered  occasionally  with  apparent  sin- 
cerity into  some  of  the  topics  of  consolation  upon 
whidi  I  touched  a  little,  when  any  expressions  of 
his  seemed  to  render  them  necessary ;  and  occasion- 

T  2 


276  LIFE   OF   THE 

ally  she  took  part  in  the  general  topics  of  conversa- 
tion which  were  introduced.  But  once  when  he  had 
walked  to  the  other  end  of  the  room,  and  once  when 
he  was  reading  to  himself,  she  raised  her  hands  and 
cast  upward  at  the  same  time  a  piteous  look  of  silent 
affliction.  His  mind  seemed  to  be  more  fully  en- 
gaged than  her's,  by  the  general  conversation,  but 
he  had  frequent,  though  not  excessive,  bursts  of 
grief. 

"  I  was  very  much  delighted  with  one  thing  which 
I  heard.  Mrs.  Burke,  who  for  three  nights  had 
taken  a  gentle  opiate,  omitted  it  on  Sunday  night, 
and  slept  well  without  it.  She  assured  me  too  that 
the  complaint  in  her  limbs  was  at  present  better. 

**  I  was  told  by  him,  that  they  had  read  a  good 
deal  in  the  course  of  the  day,  which  I  very  much 
approved. 

'*  On  my  asking  when  they  would  go  into  the 
coimtry,  she  turned  to  him,  who  answered,  when- 
ever she  pleased.  She  then  said  some  time  in  the 
course  of  the  week.  I  expressed  a  desire  to  go  with 
them,  but  she  only  said,  without  any  direct  yes  or 
no,  that  they  should  have  some  business.  At  part- 
ing  he  begged  me  to  come  as  much  to  him  as  I  could. 
It  was  however  so  much  the  request  of  poor  Wil- 
liam and  Mrs.  Nugent  at  Beaconsfield  that  I  would 
come,  that  my  plan  is  at  all  events  to  come  to  you 
for  a  few  days ;  or  if  the  Captain  and  Mrs.  Thomas 
Haviland  take  up  their  abode  with  you,  then  to  take 
possession  of  his  house.  I  can  then  be  at  Butler's 
Court  all  the  day  or  the  greatest  part  of  it,  as  may 
be  useful  and  most  convenient.  I  beg  you  will  not 
think  it  necessary  to  give  yourself  the  trouble  of  an 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  277 

answer,  but  arrange  things  at  your  discretion  for  the 
best  against  Thursday,  or  whatever  day  we  may 
come. 

**  I  am,  dear  Madam, 

"  Very  sincerely  your's, 
"  Fr.  Lawrence." 

"  Dear  Madam,  «  August  i3, 1794. 

**  Yesterday  evening  I  was  happy  again  to  learn 
that  our  poor  Jane  Burke  had  slept  well  without  the 
aid  of  medicine.  Mr.  Burke  was  somewhat  lower, 
which  a  little  affected  her,  but  I  think  it  was  only 
the  natural  progress  of  his  grief,  settling  regularly 
from  sudden  bursts  mingled  with  intervals ,  of 
forced  composure,  into  a  more  even  and  sober  me- 
lancholy. 

**  They  talk  of  removing  to  Butler's  Coiurt  on  Fri- 
day, but  said  nothing  inviting  me  with  them.  I 
shall  therefore  come,  and  on  reflection,  to  Captain 
Haviland's  house,  as  I  bring  papers  with  me  to 
occupy  my  leisure  minutes. — If  I  should  not  see 
your  son,  I  presume  you  have  authority  sufficient  to 
give  me  possession. 

"  As  you  heard  the  contents  of  a  letter  *  which 
I  wrote  from  your  house,  I  hold  it  due  to  my  truly 
noble  friend  that  you  should  also  know  the  answer. 
It  bears,  in  every  respect  the  express  image  of  his 
mind.     He  explains  to  me  his  silence  when  Dr.  W. 

King  mentioned  to  him  his  letter  to  Lord . 

He  says  that  he  never  has  asked  Lord ,  or 

*  To  Mr.  Burke ;  which  expressed  his  wish  to  get  into  Par<« 
liament^  and  remotely  hinted  at  the  exertion  of  his  influence  to 
aid  him  in  the  attempt. 


278  LIFE  OP  THE 

any  friend  of  his  own  wllio  possesses  the  same  sort  of 
parliamentaiy  interest  and  makes  the  same  use  of 
it  that  Lord  — —  does,  a  syllable  respecting  fte 
destination  of  it.  And  this  is  a  fixed  principle  wiUi 
him.  This  was  the  reason  of  his  taking  no  imme- 
diate notice  of  what  Dr.  King  told  him.  He  then 
passes  to  the  general  part  of  my  letter,  and  infonris 
me,  •  He  is  glad  to  know  that  Parliament  is  my 
wish,  because  he  will  endeavour  to  contribute  to  its 
accompUshment,  although  he  cannot  speak  with 
precision  as  to  the  mode  or  time  of  effecting  it,  and 
he  hopes  it  is  useless  to  assure  me  that  he  cannot 
have  a  greater  pleasure  than  in  testifying  to  me  and 
the  world  the  friendship  which  he  feels  for  me.' 

'*  It  gives  me  the  most  lively  satisfaction  on  re- 
flection to  be  able  to  say,  that  what  I  expressed  in 
kny  letter  to  him  I  sincerely  felt.  I  had  no  doubt  of 
his  friendship — I  write  m  great  haste. — ^Adleu  till 
We  meet. 

^'  Very  sincerely  yours, 

**  French  Lawrence." 

The  son  thus  deeply  lamented  had  Uways  et^n- 
ducted  himself  witli  so  much  filial  duty  and  aJftction 
towards  both  parents,  and  more  especially  in  sooth- 
ing the  unavoidaUe  irritations  to  Whidb  his  feriSicir 
was  subjected  by  the  prominent  part  he  tbdk  ih 
public  affairs,  as  to  sharpen  the  natural  ftelings  of 
60rrow  of  the  parent,  by  reflecting  lihat  hk  had  also 
lost  a  counsellor  aiid  friend.  Their  cdnfidence  on 
all  subjects  was  even  more  unreserved  than  commonly 
prevails  between  father  and  s6n,  and  their  Esteem  for 


RIGHT   QQ^.   fipBfUirB  BURKE.  S79 

etdi  otk^  l4ghB9n  The  »m  iQok^  to  tl^e  f itt^  99 
0W  fii  tbf^  first,  if  not  tlie  very  fir^t,  eharacter  In 
IlistQiy;  ti|^  fatlier  Ji^d  fonped  the  veiy  highest 
opinion  of  the  talents  of  the  son,  and  among  \^ 
fii^ds  ififa^  them  9ttperioF  tp  his  owp;  he  had 
mlargj^  th^  h<HisQ  at  Be9con3$el4  for  hi9  paftipifl^ 
pmrsuits  apd  ^ecominodi^ioQ ;  he  consulted  h|f9  for 
wal^  yeaifs  h^foipe  his  death  pn  ^^ost  every  sulgiMst, 
whfthir  of  a  pablie  or  privat0  nal^ire,  that  cvtxarred, 
ud  very  oftw  followed  his  judgment  ii^  preference 
Xq  Iw  Qwn  where  th^y  happened  to  differ.  I{e  pos- 
sessed solid  part^,  miudi  knowledge,  aiid  firmness 
and  d^cisi^m,  uniited  wit^  s^ct  integrity  of  mind. 

T^e  h)ps  of  sijcb  a  coqip^on  and  confidant,  the 
liiP^iy$»cte4  wd  iiT^i^di^ble  destruction  of  the  jbuopes 
entertained  of  his  advanpement  aijid  faj^flie,  and  a9 
llie  only  r^fsm^inlng  child  l^e  possessed,  the  conse- 
qgiwti^  eiEtuMUon  gf  the  jbopes  cf  descendants  to  con- 
Ijme  his  siame,  was  natifOaUy  feljt  with  excessiye 
y^jgaaaiy.  It  shook  his  Ir^ame  indeed  to  its  Gentre> 
mA  thoiigti  jldtho^t  tb^  slightest  e^eot  on  his  intel- 
Iwtuftl  ^n^gies,  his  hpdi^  fiow^v  rapidly  dedined. 
H^  9^er  i#erwaffds  could  bear  ^  look  towards 
QeamKlsfielddChurfCJti,  jthe  idaee  of  \m  interment ;  nor 
W9»  lie  perhaps  for  uny  length  qf  time  ever  absent 
^miosivuAd^exGcqpit  when  engage  in  litei^ary  comr 
position,  whidi  therj^qre  becfiiae  FRther  a  i:eUef  thm^ 
a  labour.  The  late  Bishop  of  Meath  (O'BeJMn&e) 
.used  to  say  that  the  firat  time  he  hfid  W  .q|^rt|ini1iy 
«f  .seeing  him  aftw  tiie  melaneboly  evcint,  he  Wfl9 
ahooked  to  observe  the  change  which  it  had  pro- 
duced in  lus  appearance ;  his  countenance  displayed 


280  LIFE  OF  THB 

traces  of  decay  and  of  mental  anguish,  his  chest  was 
obviously  much  sunk,  and  altogether  exhibited  the 
appearance  of  one  bowed  down  both  in  frame  and  in 
spirit  by  afflictioh. 

Nearly  all  his  private  letters  and  publications 
written  after  this  time  contain  many  and  pathetic 
allusions  to  his  loss,  and  in  his  conversation  they 
were  still  more  frequent.  He  called  him  "  the  hope 
of  his  house,''  '^  the  prop  of  his  age,"  ^  his  other 
and  better  self/'  Writing  to  a  relation  on  the  birth 
of  a  son,  he  said,  **  may  he  live  to  be  the  staff  of 
your  age  and  close  your  eyes  in  peace,  instead  of, 
like  me,  reversing  the  order  of  nature  and  having 
the  melancholy  office  to  close  his."^  To  Mr.  (now 
Baron)  Smith  he  writes :  ^*  So  heavy  a  calamity  has 
fallen  upon  me  as  to  disable  me  for  business  and  to 
disqualify  me  for  repose.  The  existence  I  have  I  do 
not  know  that  I  can  call  life  ♦  *.  Good  nights  to 
you — I  never  can  have  any."  In  a  private  letter  to 
the  same  gentleman  he  says,  '*  Yes ;  the  life  which 
has  been  so  embittered  cannot  long  endure.  The 
grave  will  soon  close  over  me  and  my  dejections." 
To  Sir  Hercules  Langrishe  he  talks  of  the  remainder 
of  his  *^  short  and  cheerless  existence  in  this  world.'* 
In  a  letter  to  Lord  Auckland,  he  says,  *^  For  myself 
or  for  my  family  (alas  !  I  have  none)  I  have  nothing 
to  hope  or  to  fear  in  this  world."  The  Letter  to  a 
noble  Lord  speaks  of  ^*  the  sorrows  of  a  desolate  old 
man."  And  again,  **  The  storm  has  gone  over  me  ; 
and  I  lye  like  one  of  those  old  oaks  which  the  late 
hurricane  has  scattered  about  me.  I  am  stripped  of 
all  my  honours  ;  I  am  torn  up  by  the  roots  and  lye 
prostrate  on  the  earth."     *'  I  am  alone.   I  have  none 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  881 

to  meet  my  enemies  in  ^e  gate.  I  greatly  deceive 
myself  if  in  this  hard  season  of  life  I  would  give  a 
peck  of  refuse  wheat  for  all  that  is  called  fame  and 
honour  in  the  world."  To  William  Elliot,  Esq,  he 
writes,  *^  desolate  at  home,  stripped  of  my  boast,  my 
hope,  my  consolation,  my  helper,  my  counsellor,  and 
my  guide.  You  know  in  part  what  I  have  lost,  and 
would  to  God  I  could  clear  myself  of  all  neglect  and 
fault  in  that  loss,"  and  numberless  others  of  a  simi- 
lar sorrowful  import  are  scattered  through  his  sub<- 
sequent  writings.  It  was  a  matter  of  the  least 
consideration  that  except  for  this  heavy  af&iction 
Mr.  Burke  was  to  have  been  raised  to  the  honours 
of  the  peerage,  but  become  now  infirm,  childless, 
and  desponding,  every  feeling  of  ambition  became 
extinguished  in  his  breast,  as  the  preceding  expres- 
sions plainly  intimate.  Notwithstanding  this,  per- 
haps, the  honour  should  have  been  bestowed  and 
accepted ;  it  would  have  been  a  satisfaction,  if  not 
to  himself,  at  least  to  his  friends  and  to  his  admirers, 
as  a  testimony  of  national  gratitude  to  a  man  of 
such  extraordinary  and  varied  talents,  exerted  with 
extraordinary  vigour  in  every  department  of  the 
public  service ;  and  as  a  passport  to  the  greater 
favour  and  consideration  of  that  numerous  class  of 

* 

the  community  (and  those  too  not  of  the  least  rank 
or  influence),  who  would  estimate  at  a  very  different 
value  the  exertions  and  services  of  plain  Mr.  Burke, 
and  those  of  Lord  Burke,  or  Lord  Beaconsfield. 

Li  person,  young  Burke  was  not  so  tall  or  so 
muscular  as  his  father,  but  well  formed  and  active, 
his  features  smaller  and  more  delicate,  though  hand- 
some and  expressive,  supposed  to  bear  some  resem- 


S82  LIFE  OF  THE 


blance  to  those  of  hk  unela  Ridbaid,  axid  hi*  com* 
plexKw  florid.  A  picture  of  him  hy  8ir  Joihuft 
RqnioLdfl  ifi  an  admirable  likeness,  "  as  exact,"  said 
a  literary  lady,  a  friend  o{  the  family,  who  saw  it  at 
the  painter's  before  it  was  sent  home,  **  as  the 
reflection  of  a  mirror."  From  this  portrait  his 
fother^  somsi  after  his  death,  caused  a  print  to  be 
engra^ied,  which  preserves  much  of  the  spirit  of  the 
original.  Uod^neatii  it,  after  his  name,  age,  and 
the  date  of  his  death,  are  the  following  lines,  altered 
in  a  slight  degree  from  Dryden's  degiae  poem  of 
Eleoncra — 

<«  Ai  pEedous  gwnB  «e  not  for  oomnun  fixe, 
Th^  bat  peifttiae  tiie  temgile  aai  exfnie  ; 
So  was  be  soon  exbaled  and  yanish'd  hcaoej 
A  abort  sweet  odour  at  a  vast  expense.*' 

Adding  to  these,  as  at  once  characteristic  of  his 
grief,  and  his  pridq, 

'^  O  dolor  atque  docus." 

The  ibilowing  character  of  him  from  tibie  pen  of 
Dr.  Walker  King,  the  present  Bishop  of  Rodiester, 
his  intimate  friend  from  youth,  -appeared  in  the 
newspapers  a  few  days  afterward. 

"  JOied  on  Saturday  last,  at  Cromwell  House,  aged 
36,  Bichard  Burke,  £Ssq.  MP.  for  the  Borough  of 
Malton,  and  the  only  son  of  4he  Bight  Honourable 
JBdmund  Burke. 

''  The  irreyparable  loss  which  his  country,  his 
friends  and  relations  have  sustained  by  this  events  is 
known  best  to  those  who  knew  him  best. 

^'  His  talents^  whether  for  business  or  speculatioB^ 
were  not  exceeded  by  any  which  the  preaent  or 
perhaps  any  former  age  could  boast.    In  that  share. 


BIGHT  HON.  CDMtXKD  BURKE.  MS 

unfortiinately  small,  Whicb  fell  to  his  lot  in  public 
affidrs,  the  superior  alnlttieB  which  he  manifested 
were  acknowledged  by  the  first  characters  in  public 
life.  Perhaps  it  was  owing  to  their  magnitude  and 
solidity,  disproportioned  to  the  currency  of  the 
times,  that  they  nemained  without  farth^  employ-^ 
ment.* 

^  The  variety  land  extetft  of  his  wudition  wus 
great :  but  what  distinguished  him  in  literature  ww 
the  justness,  refinement,  and  accuracy  of  his  taste. 

'^  In  society  his  maittiard  were  elegant ;  and  the 
best  judges  both  ^t  home  and  abroad,  thought  him 
one  of  the  best  iHred  men  of  the  age.  He  Was,  at 
the  same  time,  rigidly  and  severely  sincere.  He  was 
of  moderate  stature,  but  of  a  beautiful  countenance, 
and  an  elegant  and  graceful  figure :  He  wanted  no 
accomplishment  of  body  or  mind. 

*'  In  the  discharge  of  all  the  duties  of  friendship, 
and  in  acts  of  dharity  and  benevolence,  his  exertions 


ill  wifts  the  opmion  of  manyof  Mr.  Buike's  6ieiidB>  nk^ 
tire  to  the  major  part  of  the  Minisliyy  arismg  no  doubt  from  l^e 
obvioas  jealousy  which  Mr.  Pitt  oocasioBally  displayed  to  having 
men  in  the  Cabinet  with  him,  whose  talents  might  interfere  either 
in  the  public  or  in  thelroyal  Opinion,  whh  his  d#n.  l!ffr.'%izA:e 
himself  also  conceived  tlieve  was  a  didncUHatioa  to  briiig^arvMlMi 
his  son  into  public  life.  In  the  letter  to  William  Elliot,  Esq. 
(1795)  he  says : 

''  Had  it  pleased  Providence  to  have  spared  him  for  the  trying 
situations  that  seem  to  be  coming  on,  notwithstanding  that  he  was 
sometimes  a  little  dispirited  hy  the  dispogiiion  which  we  thought 
shown  to  depress  him  and  set  him  aside;  yet  he  was  always 
buoyed  up  again;  and  on  one  or  two  occasions,  he  discovered 
what  might  -be  expected  from  the  vigour  and  elevation  of  his 
mind,  from  his  unconquerable  fortitude,  and  from  the  extent  of 
dis  resources  for  every  purpose  of  speculation  and  of  action/' 


284  LIFE  OF  THE 

were  without  bounds :  they  were  often  secret** 
always,  like  all  his  other  virtues,  unostentatious.  He 
had  no  expences  which  related  to  himself;  what  he 
wanted  from  the  narrowness  of  his  means,  was  made 
up  from  the  abundance  of  his  heart  and  mind ;  and 
the  writer  of  this,  who  knew  him  long  and  inti- 
mately, and  was  himself  under  the  most  important 
obligations  to  him,  could  tell  how  many  deserving 
objects  he  assisted,  and  some  of  whom  he  snatched 
£rom  ruin  by  his  wise  counsel  and  indefatigable 
exertions.  He  never  gave  up  a  pursuit  of  this  kind 
whilst  it  was  possible  to  continue  it. 

<^  But  it  was  in  the  dearer  relations  of  nature  that 
his  mind,  in  which  every  thing  was  beautiful  and  in 
order,  shone  with  all  its  lustre.  To  his  father  and 
mother  his  affection  and  assiduity  were  such  as 
passed  all  description,  and  aU  examples  that  the 
writer  of  this  has  ever  seen :  here  every  thing  of 
self  was  annihilated;  here  he  was  as  perfect  as 
human  nature  can  admit.  At  home  and  to  his 
family,  he  was  indeed  all  in  all.  He  lived  in  and  for 
his  parents,  and  he  expired  in  their  arms. 

<^  A  sincerely  afflicted  mind  seeks  a-  momentary 
consolation  in  drawing  this  imperfect  sketch  of  his 
ever  to  be  honoured  and  lamented  friend. 

''  Gray's  Inn,  Aug.  5, 179*.  "  W.  K." 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  9S5 


CHAPTER  V. 


Correspondence  with  William  Smithy  Esq.  (of  Ireland)  on  the 
Roman  Catholic  Question. — Second  Letter  to  Sir  Hercules 
Langrishe,  on  the  same  suhject. — Letter  to  William  Elliot, 
Esq.  on  the  Attack  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk^  in  the  House  of 
Lords. — ^Letters  to  Mrs.  Salisbury  Haviland. — Letter  to  Lord 
Auckland,  with  Remarks  on  his  Pamphlet. — Letter  to  William 
Smith,  Esq. — Thoughts  and  Details  on  Scarcity. — ^Anecdotes. 
— Grant  of  a  Pension. — Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord  in  Reply  to  an 
Attack  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  and  the  Earl  of  Lauderdale  in 
the  House  of  Lords. 


Fob  some  months  after  the  afflicting  loss  he  had 
experienced,  the  mind  of  Mr.  Burke  was  too  seriously 
hurt  by  it  to  take  so  active  an  interest  as  he  had 
hitherto  done  in  most  questions  connected  with 
public  affairs  ;  nor  did  his  friends  deem  it  decorous 
to  intrude  upon  the  almost  sacred  privacies  of  a 
grief  so  profound  by  solicitations  for  his  opinion. 
But  as  he  became  more  composed,  a  return  to  the 
consideration  of  such  matters,  which  had  long  been 
a  species  of  daily  aliment  to  him,  was  eagerly 
desired  by  them  as  serving  to  prevent  the  continual 
intrusion  of  more  melancholy  thoughts.  His  com- 
munications with  Ministry,  however,  from  this  time 
forward  in  a  great  degree  ceased  with  the  life  of  his 
son,  his  influence,  whatever  it  was,  being  exerted 
through  the  cHannel  of  the  press,  and  therefore 
wholly  public. 

The  question  of  Roman  Catholic  Emancipation 


91816  LIFE  OF  TUB 

occupied  then,  as  it  still  contintfes  to  do,  a  large 
share  of  the  attention  of  the  statesmen  of  England 
and  Ireland.  In  the  latter  country,  as  being  chiefly 
concerned  in  the  result,  it  was,  of  course,  warmly 
debated;  the  late  concessions  there,  the  continued 
exertions  of  Mr.  Orattan,  and  the  inflammatory 
state  of  politics  altogether,  producing  in  many  a 
conviction  of  its  necessity ;  in  othera  as  starong  an 
aversion  to  any  fiorther  indulgence.  An  appeal  to 
Mr,  Burke  from  several  of  his  friends  in  Dublin, 
whose  x^inions  were  either  not  folly  formed,  or  who 
wished  their  doiabts  oa  the  matta*  entirely  resolved, 
was  therefore  made*  Among  the  number  was  his 
young  friend,  Mr.  SxQitibu  He  had  now  secured  a 
seat  in  the  legislature  of  his  country,  and  being  fur- 
tiMr  placed  in  the  not  wicommon  situation  in  Irdand 
of  having  one  parent  of  the  Protestant  and  the  .other 
6i  the  Roman  Caftholic  faith,  and  broagbt  up  a 
Ptotestoat  himself,  he  considered  it  no  less  desirable 
than  just,  to  gain  from  such  a  man  all  the  additional 
light  he  could  throw  upon  the  subject,  in  order  to  be 
himscffiP  enabled  to  act  wisely  and  conscientiously 
towards  his  reU^n,  towards  his  parent  as  one  of 
the  obnoxious  persuasion,  and  towards  his  country. 
His  lettar  on  this  occasion  is  useful  to  advert  to  for 
its  own  sake,  as  well  as  for  the  sake  of  the  answer 
it  produced. 

^  I  am  about  to  make  a  very  usual  return  far 
great  kindness,  by  imposing  a  further  tax  on  him 
from  whom  I  have  received  it.  The  funds,  |iow- 
ever,  on  which  I  draw,  whatever  modesty  or  pru- 
dence may  induce  you  to  allege,  are  universally 
known  to  be  abundant.     Besides,  what  I  ask  for  is 


EIGHT  HON.  EBMUNP  BUBKS.  S67 

advice ;  in  giviof;  which  you  can  enrich  me  without 
impoTeriBhing  Tourself . 

«  You  are  aware  that  a  measure  of  vast  import- 
ance will  dKxrily  come  before  our  Parliament  I 
mean  that  on  which  the  CaUu^ics  have  judidoiMly 
enough  bestowed  the  title  of  Smandpation.  I  feel 
Ae  magnitudie  of  this  question ;  and  wish  greatly 
to  have  apon  it  the  assistance  of  your  views.  Your 
opinion  I  indeed  anticipate;  or,  mone  jMroperly 
qpeaking^  know ;  and  what  I  now  solicit  from  yon 
is  inther  an.outline  (I  cannot  preanme  to  lode  for 
Biore)»  of  the  grounds  on  whidk  your  judgment  has 
been  formed. 

^<  The  popularity  nf  libis  measure  seems,  with 
many  of  its  advocates,  to  be  founded  upon  sentiments 
whidi  I  do  not  entertain.  Hie  £adiionable  toast,  of 
^  Rdigion  establislied ;  and  no  established  religion  V 
is  a  quaint  treachery  which  I  camiot  prevail  wKh 
myself  to  echo ;  ^nor  do  I  concur  in  the  impartial* 
ncncfaalaDce  of  those  who  think  4he  Protestant  and 
CSaflidMc  ^dootrkiss  to  be  IwHl  ao  good,  that  tiwy 
aieitbar  care  which  is  the  best,  nor  w^cy  well  know 
;wMeh  is  which.  I  suspect  that  tins  liberal  inatten- 
Him  to  specific  difference  nd^^  be  traced  toa  coot* 
tempt  for  Gfaristianily  in  general.    At  all  events,  it 

a  liberatity  to  which  I  make  no  :pretensions  ;  :and, 

tthe  contrary,  if  the  want  of  it  be  bigotry,  must 
admit  myself  a  bigot.  I  am  a  Protestant,  not 
merely  'because  it  is  the  faith  in  which  I  happened 
to  be  brought  up,  but  on  conviction ;  and  not  onfy 
consider  the  Catholic  system  to  be  ^erroneous,  but  io 
be  infected  with  errors  "Which,  as  well  from  their 
intrinsic  cfaaraoter,  as  from  'their  political  relatians. 


1 


288  LIFE   OF   TH£ 

are  of  a  tendency  the  most  pernicious ;  and  rather 
disentitle  the  professors  of  this  religion  to  liberal 
indulgence,  than  the  reverse.  At  least  these  would 
not,  I  fear,  be  likely  to  practise  the  toleration  which 
they  recommend  ;  and  cannot,  well  rest  their  claims 
upon  the  Gospel  precept,  *  *  *  * 

**  If  I  have  spoken  strongly  of  Catholic  doctrines, 
their  tendency  and  danger ;  it  yet  should  seem  that 
I  have  not  imbibed  prejudices  at  all  hostile  to  the 
professors  of  that  religion.  My  father,  whose  line 
of  politics  it  would  be  my  wish  to  pursue,  as  long  as 
he  was  in  Parliament,  supported  their  pretensions. 
My  mother,  a  most  excellent  woman,  and  all  hex 
family  are  Catholics ;  between  whom  and  me  a  very 
cordial  and  affectionate  intercourse  subsists.  But 
knowing  my  connexion  with  Doctor  Duigenan,  you 
may  suspect  me  of  having  taken  up  some  of  his 
opinions  ;  seasoned  too  with  a  portion  of  his  warmth 
and  zeal.  This,  however,  I  can  assure  you,  is  far 
from  being  the  case.  He  is  a  well  informed,  able, 
and,  I  think,  upright  man ;  with  an  intellect  perhaps 
coarse ;  beyond  all  question  strong.  But  still  his 
views  of  things  are  very  different  from  mine.  There 
is  something  as  it  were  dissonant,  and  antipathetic, 
in  the  frame  and  construction  of  our  minds  ;  and  of 
whatever  friendship  there  is  between  us,  neither 
idem  veUe,  nor  idem  sefUire,  are  the  source.  Besides, 
he  has  ever  held  me  and  my  understanding  very 
cheap :  and  though  his  estimate  may  have  been  a 
just  one,  it  was  not  calculated  to  seduce  me  into  an 
implicit  adoption  of  all  his  thoughts. 

*^  But  if  the  circumstance  of  my  mother's  family 
being  Catholic  has  protected  me  from  prejudice,  it 


UIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BUKKE.  289 

has  at  the  same  time  laid  open  sources  of  informa- 
tion, to  which  persons  situated  differently  from  me 
m^ht  not  have  access*  If  many  of  that  persuasion 
be,  as  many  are»  exempt  from  all  those  prejudices^ 
which  armed  with  power  might  lead  to  mischief,  the 
exemption  I  fear  arises  rather  from  individual  cha- 
racter, or  peculiar  situation,  than  from  the  genius  of 
the'  religion.  They  are  liberal,  not  hecausey  but 
nalmikstanding  they  are  Catholics.  Besides,  what- 
ever dangerous  spirit  popery  may  be  suspected  to 
contain,  is  repressed  and  chilled,  while  this  religion 
is  under  controul  and  in  the  shade.  But  we  know 
from  Scripture  that  the  smallest  of  all  seeds,  if 
allowed  to  grow  and  flourish,  may  overshadow 
nations. 

'*  Perhaps  the  language  I  have  been  using  may 
seem  inconsistent  with  sentiments  which  you  have 
heard  me  more  than  once  avow;  and  you  may 
suppose  that  I  am  writing  my  recantation  from  all 
favourable  dispositions  to  the  church  of  Rome. 
This,  however,  is  not  the  case.  I  am  strongly 
disposed  to  give  the  Catholics  what  they  ask :  I 
wish  to  be  convinced  that  it  would  be  right  to  do 
so ;  and  what  I  have  been  saying  merely  tends  to 
this,  that  they  ought  not  to  be  gratified  at  our 
expense.  But  we  shoidd  not,  in  an  effusion  of 
liberality,  neglect  ou^  own  defence;  or  by  dis- 
mantling the  fortresses  of  the  true  religion  esta- 
blished amongst  us,  lay  it  open  to  the  pious  inroads, 
and  with  reference  to  their  motive,  perhaps  laudable 
oppressions,  which  pro  salute  animarum^  our  Catho- 
lic brethren  might  think  it  their  duty  to  inflict.*' 

«  «•  41  ♦  4»  l|»  « 

VOL.  II.  U 


n 


390  LIFE    OF   THE 

^^  I  am  presumptuous  in  discussing  the  question 
with  you  as  I  do ;  but  should  be  more  so^  if  I  were 
not  prepared  to  surrender  my  notions,  with  un- 
affected deference  and  humility,  to  your  opinion.  I 
am  not  so  arrogant,  as  from  my  indulging  in  these 
dissertations  you  might  think.  I  do  not  forget  that 
I  have  not  been  quite  one  year  in  parliament,  nor 
quite  twenty»nine  years  in  the  world;  and  shall, 
besides,  in  favoiir  of  the  Catholics,  be  conmnced^ 
not  against  but  with  my  vnU. — That  a  man's  re- 
ligious opinions  should  abridge  his  civil  powers, 
(in  other  words  that  he  should  be  mulcted  for  being 
conscientious),  is  a  maxim  which;  in  the  abstract,  I 
reprobate  as  profane ;  and  should  feel  indebted  to 
the  reasoner  who  would  show  me  that  the  opposite 
axiom  can  be  brought  to  bear  upon  the  subject  now 

before  us." 

■■♦«♦         ««««# 

^*  I  have  myself  observed,  that  since  the  last  re- 
laxations of  the  Popery  law,  there  are  certain  pri- 
vileges  which  though  in  theory  the  Catholics  pos- 
sess,  they  have  not  begun  perfectly,  if  at  all,  to  en- 
joy in  practice.  These  barren  and  unproductive 
rights  are  worse  than  none  at  all.  They  exasperate 
and  tantalize  those  who  on  the  contrary  should  be 
conciliated  and  contented;  ^nd  perhaps  this  fro* 
voking  evil  could  not  have  arisen,  if  we  had  taken 
as  good  care  of  the  Catholics  as  of  the  Pope ;  and 
surrounded  their  civil  rights  with  a  body-giuud  of 
political  powers,  for  their  protection.  A  certain 
number  of  these  latter  they  indeed  possess;  and 
the   question    is,   whether   the   guard   be    strong 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  291 

enough  for  .  their  defence  {  or  can  be  further 
strengthened,  compatibly  with  a  due  regard  to  our 
own  safety. 

**  Of  some  of  the  donations  which  we  have  made, 
I  (as  you  know)  disapprove.  In  giving  their  forty 
shilling  freeholders  the  elective  franchise,  I  think 
that  we  did  wrong  ;*  and  even  doubt  whether  ^e 
did  not  lose  an'  opportimity  for  depriving  this 
grovelling  class ;  the  pleps  it^fima  of  our  countiy, 
whether  Protestant  or  Popish,  of  the  right  (or 
rather  abuse  and  wrong)  of  voting;  and  for  ooH'^ 
ferring  this  privilege  indiscriminately  on  twenty-* 
pound  freeholders  of  both  religions. .  You  have  had 
the  patience  to  rqad,  and  the  kindness  to  approve^ 
the  tract  in  whidi  I  started,  this  idea.  But  now  the 
thing  is  done ;  the  concession  is  made ;  ..and.  in 
making  it  we  furnished  an  argument  for  the  present 
daims.  The  power  of  forty  shilliag  freeholders  is, 
in  fact  and  practice,  the  influence  (and  that  it  should 
be  so,  is  perhaps  the  lesser  evil),  of  those  landlords 
under  whom  they  hold. :  It  is  these  latter  therefore* 
that  in  thus  extending,  the  elective  franchiae»  w0 
have  aggraadiaed.  In.  finding  a  market  fox  .the 
flock,  it  is  not  the  sheep,  but  the  owner  of  the  ^tock 
and  pasture,  that  we  serve.  Thus,  while  Catholics 
are  ineli^ble  into. Parliament,  we. may  (contrary  to 

.  *  TUs  opinio^  <)pefli  cre^i^^  ^  ^^*  Smith's  aagadtyj  for  Ireland 
would  now  willingly  j^t  rid  of  the  abuse  if  she  could ;  it  will  be 
remembered  that  a  measure  for  this  purpose  was  introduced  lately 
(18S5)  into  Parliament,  intended  to  follow  die  fortunes  of  that  for 
tiie<  reKaf  of  the  Catholics,  and  aoeordingly  they  wq»  thfoam 

put.  together.  ,  ..  . 

II  2  • 


tf  •    V  V 


292  I.IFE  OP   THE 

our  intention)  have  been  aggrandizing  the  Protestant 
gentry  at  their  expense. 

♦        ♦♦»«»♦ 

*'  You  have  akeady  observed,  I  believe  it  is  in 
your  letter  to  Sir  Hercules  Langrishe,  that  the  penal 
code  ought  not  to  have  been  even  touched,  except 
by  those,  who  were  prepared  for  its  entire,  though 
perhaps  gradual  abrogation.  But  without  disputing 
this,  at  least  without  disputing  it  directly,  I  may 
sfuggest,  that  of  the  liberty  which  identifies  with 
power,  we  may  with  propriety  be  frugal ;  lest  in 
bestowing  freedom  upon  others,  we .  should  be  im- 
posing chains  upon  ourselves.  Our  security,  and 
liberties  ought  not  to  be  the  fund,  out  of  which,  by 
deductions  from  it,  the  Catholic  demands  are  to  be 

supplied. 

m  ''     m         mm         m         m         m 

**  But  it  will  seldom  be  a  sufficient  reason  for  re- 
jecting an  application,  that  it  is  ungraciously  or 
even  insolently  made.  The  intrinsic  merits  and 
reasonableness  of  the  demand  itself  should,  in  general, 
be  gone  into.  Nor  though  petitioners  should  falsely 
represent  their  circumstances  to  be  worse  than  these 
really  are,  ought  we  merely  upon  this  account  to 
decline  improving  their  situation,  if  it  can  be 
ameliorated  with  safety  to  ourselves.  Complainants 
nine  times  out  of  ten  magnify  the  alleged  grievance 
which  they  are  seeking  to  have  removed,  the  delu- 
sions of  amour  propre  first  aggravate  it  to  them- 
selves ;  and  their  representation  of  what  they  en- 
dured again  enhances  upon  this ;  in  order  that  the 
supposed  magnitude  of  their  suffering  may  supply 
an  argument  for  its  removal.    Resentment  may  also 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND   BUHKE.  293 

sometiines  contribute  its  part;   and  induce  them' 
to  exaggerate  their  oppressions,  both  to  themselves, 
and  to  those  whom  they  consider  as  oppressors. 

*^  The  longer  the  provocations  last,  the  more 
exasperation  and  ill-blood  will  be  produced ;  and  the 
greater  will  be  the  risk  which  must  at  length  per- 
haps be  run.  If  then  the  restrictive  system  with 
respect  to  Catholics  ought  at  some  time  to  have  an 
end,  what  better  moment  could  be  chosen  than  the 
present,  when,  from  the  loyal  conduct  which  they 
have  hitherto  pursued,  it  may  be  inferred  that  they 
have  not  yet  been  stung  or  stimulated  into  dis- 
affection ;  a  moment  in  which  allegiance  is  exposed 
to  uhprecendented  perils  and  temptations ;  and 
swarms  of  innovators  are  busy  in  every  quarter  of 
the  country;  when  old  establishments  are  slcping' 
their  heads  to  their  Jbundaiians ;  and  all  that  is 
passing  round  us  in  the  world  seems  to  inculcate  the 
necessity  of  cementing  for  our  own  security  id 
firmissimum  imperiumy  quo  obedientes  gaudent  ? 

**  We  ought  not,  if  it  can  be  avoided,  to  inflict 
upon  our  brethren  the  unkindness  which  she*  feared 
from  imperious  enemies,  for  her  son :  we  ought  not 
to  hold  the  cup  of  privilege  to  their  lips ; .  and  then 
stint  them  to  a  mere  relish,  better  calculated  to  in- 
flame their  thirst,  than  to  assuage  it.  This  is  a 
moment  not  merely  for  doing  strict  and  penurious 
justice ;  but  for  gratifying  feelings,  and  exciting 
zeal.     Suppose  the  Catholics  are  now  requiring,  not 

*  An  allusion  to  Andromache's  fears  for  the  captivity  of  her  son 
Astyanax. 


294  LIFE   OF   THE 

what'  may  be  eaUed  the  necessaries^  and  ordinary 
sustenance' of  ci^il  life,  but  a  regale  Of  honours  and 
distinctions,  to  please  the  palate  and  soothe  the  pride 
of  their  ambition ;  why  should  they  not  ask  this  ? 
why  should  they  not  obtain  it,  if  it  can  be  given 
with  safety?  if  it  can  be  given,  iirtthout  manifest 
and  very  serious  danger  ?  '  Why  should  CittholioB  he 
doomed  to  thirst  in  vain  fot  honours,  thethiiBt  for 
which  is  a  main  incentive  to  public  spirit,  and  has 
perhaps  its  wigin  in  public  virtue  ?  Why  should 
the  geinial  current  of  their  fair  affections  and 
natural  appetites  be  frozen  ?  Or  how  at  least  can 
we  who  freeze  it^  in  the  same  breath  require  that  it 
shall  flow  warmly  for  our  defence  ?  Can  we  prevent 
a  Catholic  from  feeling  that  he  is  as  well  entitled  by 
nature  to  distinction  as  we  are  ?  that  he  is  as  well, 
qualified,  as  any  Protestant,  for  filling  an  emin^it 
situation  with  credit  to  himself,  and  advantage  to 
the- public?  Or  what  more  serioua  peril  can  we 
Well  incur,  than  that  of  convincing  this  great  body 
of  oiiLr  countrymen  that>  iinder  the  present  order  of 
things,  43iey  must  stifle  their  fair  ambition,  for  that 
we  consider  theiv  depressicm  as  ^  sine  qud  nan  of 
our  safety? 

**  I  have  stated  my  difficulties,  in  order  that  you 
should  remove  them,  or  indicate  a  road  to  liberality, 
by  taking  which  I  may  avoid  them.  Much  in  fact 
of  what  I  have  been  considering  as  arduous,  you 
may  show  me  to  be  mere  mole-hills,  which  an 
erroneous  view  of  the  subject  has  magnified  into 
mountains.     Or,   as    I   said    before,  leaving   these 


HIOHT   HCNNT.  EDMUND  BUBK£.  295 

moimtams,  as  Mahomet  left  his,  in  their  own  plad^^ 
you  majr^  instead  of  going  to  them  as  he  did,  point 
out  another  road;  a  pass,  by  means  of  which  we 
can  ehide.  them  all.  Accordingly  (indeed  at  all 
events),  I  am  far  from  expecting  that  you  should 
discuss  my  objections  seriatim ;  or  regularly,  refute 
them  all.  In  perusing  them  without  impatience^ 
you  will  have  been  sufficiently  indulgent.  What  I 
ask  for  is  your  opinion ;  and  such  objections  as  you 
pass  imnoticed,  I  shall  consider  you  to  have  over^ 
ruled." 

The  reply  of  Mr.  Burke  bears  date  January  SI9th, 
1795,  and  being  handed  about  in  Dublin,  found  its 
way  into  the  press,  though  without  permission  of 
the  writer  or  his  correspondent.  He  does  not  enter 
into  the  detail  of  the  question  with  all  the  minute- 
ness perhaps  whidi  was  solicited,  but  gives  his  views 
upon  it  generally,  and  pleads  for  the  removal  of  the 
whole  of  the  disabilities  of  the  Roman  Catholic  body. 
Speaking  of  their  religion  itself,  he  applies  to  it  the 
language  of  men  of  sense  and  statesmen — ^that  as  the 
faith  of  four-fifths  of  the  community  of  the  country, 
it  should  not  be  hostilely  treated — ^that  as  a  thing  in 
itsdf  irremoveable  by  either  force  or  persuasion,  it 
should  be  the  business  of  wisdom  not  to  bicker  and 
contend  with,  but  to  make  the  most  of  it. 

He  urges  unanimity  upon  the  Christian  world,  as 
now  more  than  ever  necessary  when  the  foundations 
of  Christianity  itself  were  attacked,  and  that,  were  it 
possible  to  dispute,  rail,  and  persecute  the  Roman 
Catholics  out  of  their  prejudices,  it  is  not  probable 
they  would  take  refuge  in  ours,  but  rather  in  an  in- 


896  LIFE^  OF   THE 

difference  to  all  religion ;  and  that  were  the  Catholic 
religion  destroyed  by  infidels,  it  is  absurd  to  sup-, 
pose  that  the  Protestant  churdi  could  long  endure. 

"  All  the  principal  religions  in  Europe,'*  he  says, 
^*  stand  upon  one  common  bottom.  The  support,  that 
the  whole,  or  the  favoured  parts,  may  have  in  the 
secret  dispensations  of  Providence,  it  is  imppssiUe  to 
say ;  but  humanly  speaking,  they  are  all  prescriptive 
religions.  They  have  all  stood  long  enough  to  make 
prescription,  and  its  chain  of  legitimate  prejudices, 
their  main  stay.  The  people,  who  compose  the  four 
grand  divisions  of  Christianity,  have  now  their  re- 
ligion as  an  habit,  and  upon  authority,  and  not  on 
disputation ;  as  all  men,  who  have  their  religion 
derived  from  their  parents,  and  the  fruits  of  educa^ 
tion,  mtiBt  have  it ;  however  the  one,  more  than  the 
other,  may  be  able  to  reconcile  his  faith  to  his  own 
reason,  or  to  that  of  other  men. 

'*  Depend  upon  it  they  must  all  be  supported,  or 
they  must  all  fall  in  the  crash  ei  a  common  ruin. 
The  Catholics  are  the  far  more  numerous  part  of  the 
Christians  in  your  country ;  and  how  can  Christianity 
(that  is  now  the  point  in  issue)  be  supported  under 
the  persecution,  or  even  under  the  discountenance, 
of  the  greater  number  of  Christians  ?  It  is  a  great 
truth,  and  which  in  one  of  the  debates  I  stated  as 
strongly  as  I  could  to  the  House  of  Commons  in  the 
last  session,  that  if  the  Catholic  religion  is  destroyed 
by  the  infidels,  it  is  a  most  contemptible  and  absurd 
idea,  that  this,  or  any  Protestant  church,  can  sur- 
vive that  event.  Therefore  my  humble  and  decided 
opinion  is,  that  all  the  three  religions,  prevalent 
more  or  less  in  various  parts  of  these  islands,  ought 


RIGHT   HOK.   EDMUND  BtRKE.  Z9t 

aU,  in  subordination  to  the  legal  establishMents.  as 
they  stand  in  the  several  countries,  to  be  all  coun- 
tenanced, protected,  and  cherished ;  and  that  in  Ire- 
land particularly  the  Roman  Catholic  religioia  should 
be  upheld  in  high  respect  and  veneration ;  and  should 
be,  in  its  place,  provided  Mnth  all  the  means  of 
making  it  a  blessing  to  the  people  who  profess  it ; 
that  it  ought  to  be  cherished  as  a  good  (though  hot 
as  the  most  preferable  good,  if  a  choice  was  now  to 
be  made),  and  not  tolerated  as  an  inevitable  evil. 

*'  If  this  be  my  opinion  as  to  the  Catholic  religion, 
as  a  sect,  you  must  see,  that  I  must  be  to  the  last 
degree  averse  to  put  a  man,  upon  that  account,  upon 
a  bad  footing  with  relation  to  the  privileges,  which 
the  fundamental  laws  of  this  country  give  him  as  a 
subject.  I  am  the  more  serious  on  the  positive  en- 
couragement to  be  given  to  this  religion  (always, 
however,  as  secondary),  because  the  serious  and 
earnest  belief  and  practice  of  it  by  its  professors 
forms,  as  things  stand,  the  most  effectual  barrier,  if 
not  the  sole  barrier  against  jacobinism.  The  Catho- 
lics form  the  great  body  of  the  lower  ranks  of  your 
community ;  and  no  small  part  of  those  classes  of 
the  middling,  that  came  nearest  to  them.  You 
know  that  the  seduction  of  that  part  of  mankind 
from  the  principles  of  religion,  morality,  subordina- 
tion, and  social  order,  is  the  great  object  of  the 
jacobins.  Let  them  grow  lax>  sceptical,  careless^ 
and  indifferent  with  regard  to  religion,  and  so  sure 
as  we  have  an  existence,  it  is  not  a  zealous  Anglidan 
or  Scottish  church  principle,  but  direct  jacobinism, 
which  will  enter  into  that  breach.  Two  hundred^ 
years  dreadfully  spent  in  experiments  to  for^e  that 


S98  LIFE   OF.  THE 

people  to  chax^e  the  form  of '^^  their  religicMi  have 
proved  fruitless.  You  have  now  your  choice,  for 
full  four-fifths  of  your  people,  ^  of  the  Catholic  r^ 
ligioa  or  jacobinism.  If  things  appear  to  you  to 
fiftand  on  this  alternative^  I  think  you  will  not  be 
lopg  in  making  your  option. 

«         m         «         *         m         »        .♦ 

...  .    . 

*^  As  to  the  capacity  of  sitting  in  Parliament,  after^ 
all  th^  capacities  for  voting,  for  the  army,  for  the 
navy,  for  the  professions,  for  civil  offices,  it  is  a  dis- 
pute de  land  caprind,  in  my  poor  opinion ;  at  least 
on  the  part  of  those  who  oppose  it.  In  the  first 
place^  this  admission  to  office,  and  this  exclusion  from 
Parliament,  on  the  principle  of  an  exclusion  from 
political  power,  is  the  very  reverse  of  the  principle 
of  the  English  test  act.  If  I  were  to  form  a  judg-« 
ment  from  experietice  rather  than  theory,  I  should 
doubt  much  ~  whether  the  capacity  for,  or  even  the 
possession  of,  a  seat  in  Parliament,  did  really  convey 
muoh  of  power  to  be  properly  called  political.  I 
have  sat  there,  with  some  observation,  for  nine  and 
twenty  years,  or  thereabouts.  The  power  of  a  Mem- 
ber of  Parliament  is  uncertain  and  indirect :  and  if 
power  rather  than  splendour  and  fame  were  the 
object,  I  should  think  that  any  of  the  principal 
clerks  in  office  (to  say  nothing  of  their  superiors, 
several  of  whom  are  disqualified  by  law  for  seats  in 
Parliament)  possess  far  more  power  than  nine-tenths 
ci  the  members  of  the  House  of  Commons.  I  might 
say  this  of  men,  who  seemed  from  their  fortunes,  their 
weight  in  their  country,  and  their  talents,  to  be  per^ 
sons  of  figure  there ;  and  persons  too  not  in  oppo* 
:dtion.to  the  prevailing  party  in  government. 


RIGHT   HDK.  £DMUND  BUBKE.  299 

**  But  be  they  what  they  will,  on  a  fair  canvass  c^ 
the  aeveral  prevailing  parlian)entary  interests  in  Ire* 
land,  I  cannot,  out  of  the  three  hundred  members,  of 
whom  the  Irish  Parliament  is  composed,  discover,  that 
above  three,  or  at  the  utmost  four,  Catholics  would 
be  returned  to  the  House  of  Commons.  But  sup^ 
pose  they  should  amount  to  thirty,  that  is  to  a  tenth . 
part,  (a  thing  I  hold  impossible  for  a  long  series  of 
years,  and  never  very  likely  to  happen),  what  is  this 
to  those,  who  are  to  balance  them  in  the  one  House, 
and  the  clear  and  settled  majority  in  the  other  ? 
For  I  think  it  absolutely  impossible  that,  in  the 
course  of  many  years,  above  four  or  five  peers  should* 
be  created  of  that  communion.  In  fact,  the  exclu-' 
sion  of  them  seems  to  be  the  only  way  to  mark  jea- 
lousy and  suspicion,  and  not  to  provide  security  in 
any  way." 

The  measures  now  contemplated  to  benefit  Ireland 
by  the  new  Lord  Lieutenant  Earl  Fitzwilliam,  being 
disapproved  by  the  English  ministry,  the  disagree- 
ment imhappily  terminated  in  his  recal,  and  the 
ferment  occasioned  by  this  impolitic  act  was  ter- 
minated only  by  the  rebellion.  Heated  discussions 
were  in  the  mean  time  carried  on  in  Dublin  in  public 
assemblages  of  the  Catholics  and  Anti-^CatholiCs,  the 
former  in  Francis-street,  the  latter  in  College  Green:* 
a  debate  on  the  subject  had  likewise  taken  place  in 
the  House  of  Commons.  In  this  situation  Mr.- 
Burke  wrote  his  Second  Letter  to  Sir  Hercules- 
JLangrishe,  who  had  sent  him  his  speech  oh  that' 
occasion,  and  he  urges  several  new  arguments  to 
support  the  view  of  it,  which  he  and  his  friend  the 
baronet  had  taken.     His  feelings  on  the  change  in 


300  LIFE  OF  THE 

the  Irish  administration  were  of  the  most  desponding 
nature,  and  more  so  in  private  conversation  than  he 
thought  proper  to  publish. 

'*  I  really  thought  that  in  the  total  of  the  late  cir- 
cumstances with  regard  to  persons,  to  things,  to 
principles,  and  to  measures,  was  to  be  found  a  con- 
juncture favourable  to  the  introduction  and  to  the 
perpetuation  of  a  general  harmony,,  producing  a 
general  strength,  which  to  that  hour  Ireland  was 
never  so  happy  as  to  enjoy.  My  sanguine  hopes 
are  blasted,  and  I  must  consign  my  feelings  on  that 
terrible  disappointment  to  the  same  patience  in  which 
I  have  been  obliged  to  bury  the  vexation  I  suffered 
on  the  defeat  of  the  other  great,  just,  and  honourable 
causes,  in  which  I  have  had  some  share ;  and  which 
have  given  more  of  dignity  than  of  peace  and  ad- 
vantage to  a  long  and  laborious  life." 

Immediately  after  this  letter  had  been  dispatched 
to  its  destination,  he  thought  it  necessary  to  defend 
himself  from  an  attack  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  in 
the  House  of  Lords,  who  in  the  debate  concerning 
Earl  Fitzwilliam,  took  occasion  to  advert  to  him  as 
the  cause  of  that  nobleman's  secession  from  the  party. 
The  number,  variety,  and  magnitude  of  Mr.  Burke's 
talents,  he  said,  were  known,  and  he  fiilly  admitted 
them  all,  but  they  had  not  been  put  to  a  right  use  : 
by  the  book  which  he  had  published  he  had  provoked 
dangerous  replies,  particularly  that  of  Mr.  Paine ; 
yet  he  continued  to  wage  war  against  Whig  prin- 
ciples, and  against  the  spirit  and  the  securities  of 
freedom. 

The  answer,  which  is  couched  in  a  strain  of  sar- 
castic humour,  forms  a  Letter  to  WiUiarn  Elliots 


RIGHT  DON.  ITDMUND  BURKE.  801 

JEsq.  He  confesseB  he  is  somewhat  obstinate  in 
adhering  to  the  opinions  and  party  with  which  he 
set  out  in  life,  instead  of  being  lectured  into  the  new 
opinions  of  a  new  party,  some  of  whoin  were  not 
bom  into  the  world,  and  all  of  them  were  children, 
when  he  entered  into  the  connexion-^that  he  con- . 
tinues  somewhat  purblind  to  the  blessings  of  French 
freedom,  and  must  persevere  in  the  path  he  had 
chosen,  that  is,  to  try  to  save  his  Grace,  and  persons 
like  his  Grace,  from  themselves — **  I  admit,  indeed, 
that  my  praises  of  the.  British  government,  loaded 
with  all  its  incumbrances ;  clogged  with  its  peers 
and  its  beef ;  its  parsons  and  its  pudding ;  its  com- 
mons and  its  beer,  and  its  dull  slavish  liberty  of 
going  about  just  as  one  pleases>  had  something  to 
provoke  a  jockey  of  Norfolk,  who  was  inspired  with 
the  resolute  ambition  of  becoming  a  citizen  of 
France." 

Adverting  to  the  toasts,  witticisms,  and  allusions 
frequently  made  to  him  by  the  political  dubs  and 
associations  of  the  day,  as  well  as  in  the  speeches  of. 
Mi.  Erskine,  in  the  late  trials  for  high  treason  and  on 
other  occasions  at  the  bar,  he  gives  the  reins  to  his 
peculiar  fancy. 

*^  Mr.  Erskine  supplied  something,  I  allow,  from 
the  stores  of  his  imagination,  in  metamorphosing  the 
jovial  toasts  of  clubs,  into  solemn  special  arguments 
at  the  bar.  So  far  the  thing  showed  talent :  how- 
ever I  must  still  prefer  the  bar  of  the  tavern  to  the 
other  bar.  The  toasts  at  the  first  hand  were  better 
than  the  arguments  at  the  second.  Even  when  the 
toasts  began  to  grow  old  as  sarcasms,  they  were 
washed  down  with  still  older  pricked  election  port ; 


SOe  LIFE   OF   THE 

ihen  the  acid  of  the  wine  made  some  amends  for  the 
want  of  any  thing  piquaint  in  the  wit.  .  But  when 
his  Grace  gave  them  a  second  transformation,  and 
terought  out  the  yapjid  stuff,  which  had  wearied  the 
clubs  and  disgusted  the  courts ;  the  drug,  nmde-  up 
of  the  bottoms  of  rejected  bottles,  all  smelling  so 
wofully  of  the  cork  and  the  cask,  and  of  every  thing 
except  the  honest  old  lamp,  and  when  that  sad 
draught  had  been  feu*ther  infeeted  with  the  gaol 
pollution  of  the  Old  Bailey,  and  was  dashed  and 
brewed,  and  ineffectually  stunned  agam  into  a  sena- 
tori^  exordium  in  the  House  of  Lc«rds,  I  found  all 
the  high  flavour  and  mantling  of  my  honouirs,  tast^ 
less,  flat,  aQd  stale.  Unluckily,  the  new  tax  on 
wine  is  felt  even  in  the  greatest  fortunes*  and  his 
Grace  submits  to  take  up  with  the  heel-^taps  of  Mr. 
Erskine." 

Touching  sarcastically  on  the  inexperience  of 
many  of  the  juvenile  politicans  of  the  day,  who 
would  fain  teach  him  what  true  whiggism,  freedom, 
and  constitutional  principles  were ;  and  on  the  sub- 
stantial knowledge  of  such  persons  as  the  Duke,  in 
certain  practices  no  doubt  equally- constitutional,  he 
says — 

^*  I  give  due  credit  to  the  censorial  brow,  to  the 
broad  phylacteries,  and  to  the  imposing  gravity  of 
these  magisterial  rabbins  and  doctors  in  the  cabala 
of  political  science.  I  admit  that  *  wisdom  is  as  Uie 
grey  hair  to  man,  and  that  learning  is  like  honorable 
old  age/  But,  at  a  time  when  liberty  is  a  good  deal 
talked  of,  perhaps  I  might  be  excused,  if  I  caught 
something  of  the  general  indocility.  It  might  not 
be  surprising,  if  I  lengthened  my  chain  a  link  or 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  80S 

two,  and  iii  an  age  of  relaxed  discipline,  gava  a 
trifling  indulgence  to  my  own  notions.  If  that  could 
be  allowed,  perhaps  I  might  sometimes  (by  acddent, 
and  without  an  unpardonable  crime)  trust  as  much 
to  my  own  very  careful  and  very  laborious,  though, 
perhaps,  somewhat  purblind  disquisitions,  as  to 
their  soaring,  intuitive,  eagle^yed  authority;  but 
the  modem  liberty  is  a  precious  thing.  It  must  not 
be  profaned  by  too  vulgar  an  use.  It  belongs  only 
to  the  chosen  few,  who  are  bom  to  the  hereditary 
representation  of  the  whole  democracy,  and  who 
leave  nothing  at  all,  no,  not  the  offal,  to  us  poor 
.outcasts  of  the  plebeian  race. 

**  Amongst  those  gentlemen  who  came  to  *  au«* 
thority,  as  soon,  or  sooner  than  they  came  of  age, 
I  do  not  mean  to  include  his  Grace.  With  all  those 
native  titles  to  empire  over  our  minds' which  dis- 
tinguish the  others,  he  has  a  large  share  of  experi- 
ence. He  certainly  ought  to  understand  the  British ' 
Constitution  better  than  I  do.  He  has  studied  it  in 
the  fundamental  part.  For  one  election  I  have  seen, 
he  has  been  concerned  in  twenty.  Nobody  is  less  of 
a  visionary  theorist ;  nobody  has  drawn  his  specula- 
tions more  from  practice.  No  peer  has  condescended 
to  superintend  with  more  vigilance  the  declining 
firanchises  of  the  poor  Commons.  'With  thrice 
great  Hermes  he  has  outwatched  the  bear.'  <  Often 
have  his  candles  been  burned  to  the  snuff,  and 
glimmered  and  stunk  in  the  sockets,  whilst  he  grew 
pale  at  his  constitutional  duties ;  long  sleepless 
nights  has  he  wasted ;  long,  laborious,  shiftless 
joumies  has  he  made,  and  great  sums  has  he  ex- 
pended, in  order  to  secure  the  purity,  the  independ- 


904  IJF£  OF  TH£ 

ance»  and  the  sobriety  of  elections,  and  to  give  a 
check,  if  possible,  to  the  ruinons  charges  that  go 
nearly  to  the  destruction  of  the  right  of  election 
itself. 

*'  Amidst  these  his  labours,  his  Grace  will  be 
pleased  to  forgive  me,  if  my  zeal,  less  enlightened 
to  be  sure  than  his  by  midnight  lamps  and  studies, 
has  presumed  to  talk  too  favourably  of  this  Consti- 
tution, and  even  to  say  something  sounding  like  ap- 
probation of  that  body,  which  has  the  honour  to 
reckon  his.  Grace  at  the  head  of  it.  Those  who  dis* 
like  this  partiality,  or,  if  his  Grace  pleases,  this 
flattery  of  mine,  have  a  comfort  at  hand.  I  may 
be  refuted  and  brought  to  shame  by  the  most  con- 
vincing of  all  refutations,  a  practical  refutation. 
Every  individual  peer  for  himself  may  show,  that  I 
was  ridiculously  wrong ;  the  whole  body  of  those 
noble  persons  m^y  refute  me  for  the  whole  corps. 
If  they  please,  they  are  more  powerful  advocates 
against  themselves,  than  a  thousand  scribblers  like 
me  can  be  in  their  favour.  If  I  were  even  possessed 
of  those  powers  which  his  Grace,  in  order  to  heighten 
my  offence,  is  pleased  to  attribute  to  me,  there  would 
be  little  difference.     The  eloquence  of  Mr.  Erskine 

might  save  Mr. from  the  gallows,  but  no 

eloquence  could  save  Mr.  Jackson*  from  the  effects 
of  his  own  potion." 

Remembering  the  influence  which  he  exerted  over 
the  public  mind,  on  nearly  all  the  great  questions  in 


» 


The  clergyman,  who  being  apprehended  on  a  treasonable 
nuBsion  to  Ireland,  tried  and  convicted,  poisoned  himself  in 
prison. 


RIGHT   BON;   EDHUND   BURKE.  .996 

wlmh.  he  tbok  a  leading  pert»  and  most  of  aU  on  the 
French  Revolution,  the  idea  thrown  out  in  the 
following  sketch  applies  to  no  man  so  much  as  to 
himself. 

.  *^  How  often  has  public  calamity  been  arrested  on 
the  very  brink  of  ruin  by  the  seasonable  energy  of  a 
single  man !  Have  we  no  such  man  amongst  us  ?  I 
am  as  sure  as  I  am  of  my  beings  that  one  vigorous 
mind  without  office,  without  situation,  without 
public  functions  of  any  kind  (at  a  time  yrhem  the 
want  of  such  a  thing  is  felt  as  I  am  sure  it  is),  I  say 
one  such  man  confiding  in  the  aid  of  God,  and  full 
of  jttst  reliance  on  his  own  fortitude,  vigour,  enter** 
prise  and  perseverance,  would  first  diraw  to  him  some 
few  like  himself,  and  then  that  multitudes  hardly 
thought  to  be  in  existence  would  appear  and  troop 
about  him. . 

<^  If  I  saw  this  auspicious  beginning,  baffled  and 
frustrated  as  I  am,  yet  on  the  very  verge  of  a  timely 
grave,  abandoned  abroad,  and  desolate  at  home, 
stripped  of  my  boast,  my  hope,  my  consolation,  my 
helper,  my  counsellor,  and  my  guide,^  yet  thus,  even 
thus,  I  would  rake  up  the  fire  under  all  the  ashes 
that  oppress  it.  I  am  no  longer  patient  of  the 
puUic  eye ;  nor  am  I  of  force  to  win  my  way,  and 
to  justle  and  elbow  in  a  crowd.  But  even  in  soli* 
tude  something  may  be  done  for  society.  The 
meditations  of  the  closet  have  infected  senates  with 
a  subtle  frenzy,  and  inflamed  armies  with  the  brands 
of  the  furies.  The  cure  might  come  from  the  same 
source  us  llie  distemper.    I  would  add  my  part  to 

*  Hia  ion. 
VOL.  IL  X 


806  LIFE  OF   THE 

those  who  would  animate  the  people  (whose  hearts 
are  yet  right)  to.new  exertions  in  the  old  cause." 

Ahout  this  time  he  had  to  lament  another  severe 
family  affliction  in  the  death  of  Major  Hayiland^  the 
husband  of  his  nieoe^  who  having  accompanied  his 
regimetit,  the  45th,  to  the  West  Indies  (from  a  sense 
of  duty,  though  contrary  to  the  wishes  of  his 
family),  died  at  Martinique,  just  as  he  was  gazetted 
a  colonel.  Mrs.  Haviland,  who  remained  at  home, 
received  the  melancholy  intelligence  of  being  a 
widow  shortly  before  she  became  a  mother.  To 
this  sad  event  the  following  letters  of  Mr.  Burke, 
addressed  with  two  exceptions  to  the  senior  Mrs. 
Haviland,  chiefly  relate. 

"  My  dearest  Madam, 

^*  You  know  that  I  partake  from  the  very  bottom 
of  my  soul  the  affliction  you  suffer.  It  is  not  my 
relation  to  him,  and  through  him  to  you  that  alone 
affects  me.  I  loved  him  as  a  friend,  and  I  loved  you 
as  a  friend,  both  of  you  most  sincerely,  before  we 
had  any  other  connexion :  but  sorrow  and  suffering 
are  our  lot ;  and  the  same  God  who  makes  the  dis* 
pensation,  must  be  our  comfort  imder  it. 

*<  As  to  the  excellent  poor  creature  here  who 
approaches  to  her  time  very  nearly,  we  cannot  pos« 
sibly  trust  her  with  what  I  fear  too  much  is  the  r^ 
state  of  her  case.  She  is  far  advanced,  and  if  she 
hears  it  before  she  gets  to  town  and  has  help  at 
hand,  I  think  it  may  be  death  to  her,  so  we  thank 
you  most. cordially  for  the  cold.*    She  was  dressed ; 


*  An  excuse  made  by  Mrs.  Haviland^  to  avoid  an  interview  wi 
ber  daugbter-in-law^  just  after  the  news  of  her  loss  bad  arrived. 


RIGHT   HOK.   SDMUND  BURKE.  807 

and  nothing  else  could  hinder  her  going  to  you. 
May  the  Almighty  strengthen  us  all,  and  bow  us  ift 
this  and  in  all  things  to  his  wise  disposal.  May 
every  blessing  attend  you.  Adieu^  and'  believe  me 
ever  faithfully  *  and  affectionately  yours,  and  Mrs. 
Aston's  sincere  friend  and  obliged  humble  servant, 

"  Edmund  Burke. 
"  Mrs.  Burke  is  to  you  both  with  all  her  usual 
affection." 

^*  TO  OLIVBR  DOLPHIN,  B8Q.  LOUOHRBA,  ISBLAND. 

"  My  dear  Sir, 

**  Your  humanity  cannot  fail  to  be  affected  with 
the  subject  on  which  I  take  the  liberty  to  write. 
Our  unhappy  family  furnishes  little  else  than  dis- 
asters to  ourselves,  and  subjects  of  grief  to  those 
who  are  compassionate  enough  to  be  our  friends. 
The  poor  object  of  your  protection,  my  niece  Mary 
Haviland,  could  hardly  call  herself  a  wife  when  she 
became  a  widow.  Major  Haviland,  who  had  been 
just  appointed  a  colonel,  died  before  his  appoint- 
ment could  reach  him  in  the  West  Indies ;  she  is 
within  a  few  weeks  of  her  l3dng-in,  and  as  yet  I 
have  not  informed  her  of  her  unhappy  fate.  I 
tremble  to  do  it  from  the  effect  it  may  have  upon 
her  in  her  present  state,  but  we  cannot  conceal  it 
above  a  day  longer  at  the  utmost.  I  am  bound  to 
apprise  you  of  every  thing  concerning  her,  who  have 
ever  taken  so  kind  and  paternal  an  ilaterest  in  this 
friendless  and  excellent  creature. 

*<  You  have  protected  her  as  an  orphan ;  I  now 
must  owe  to  you  the  same  care  of  her  affairs  as  a 
widow.     Mrs^  Burke  haa  brought  her  to  to#n  that 

X  8 


d08  JC.IFE  OF  THE 

in  case  she  should  be  suddenly  taken  ill  by  this 
news,  she  may  have  help  from  the  physicians,  on 
whom .  above  all  others  our  poor  Mary  has  the 
greatest  reliance.  Your  son,  one  of  the  finest  young 
m^n,  and  the  most  promising  for  parts  and  morals 
that  I.  know,  did  us  the  favour  of  affording  a  day  at 
our  house  before  his  departure  for  the  sea  coast. 

"  I  am  ever,  with  sincere  respect  and  affection, 

"  My  dear  Sir, 

*^  Your  most  faithful  and  obedient  servant, 

**  Edmut^d  Burke. 

"  London,  August  5,  179^- 

"  I  shall  return  to  the  country  in  a  day  or  two, 
whither  you  will  be  pleased  to  direct  to  me." 

(No  date,  but  about  7th  or  8th  of  August,  179^0 

*'  My  dear  Mrs.  Haviland, 
**  I  waited  to  see  how  things  turned  out  with  your 
poor  child  before  I  troubled  you  on  the  subject.  A 
melancholy  one  it  is  to  us  all.  She  was  not  made 
acquainted  with  her  irreparable  loss  until  yesterday 
morning*  She  had  from  our  manner  been  prepared 
to  expect  bad  news  of  some  kind  or  other ;  and  the 
tmfojTtunate  business  was  opened  so  gradually  that 
though  grief  beyond  expression  was  caused  by  it  (a 
thing  inevitable  in  a  case  of  so  heavy  a  loss  falling 
on  so  much  sensibility)  yet  there  was  nothing  of 
surprise.  An  agony  of  sorrow  continued  the  whole 
day ;  and  her  night  was  not  good.  Dr.  Poinan,  in 
whom  she  has  much  confidence,  has  seen  her  since, 
and  he  had  been  previously  consulted.  He  was  of 
opinion  that  the  communication  might  be  more 
aaftly  made  to  her  before  her  lying  in,  ihan  after  or 


KIUHT  HON.  £DAnJNl}  BU&KE.  S09 

very  near  the.  time.  It  was  imjioBsiMe  to  cdneeal  it» 
even  had  it.  been  advisable  bo  to  do,  for  many  days 
longer.  He  is  not  apprehensive  of  danger  in  the 
least  degree. 

**  I  have  been  in  town  the  whole  day  ahnost  to 
this  minnte ;  since  my  return,  I  have  been  at  her 
lodgings,  where  she  is  likely  to  be  quiet.  The  air  is 
good,  and  the  family  kind  and  attentive.  Mrs. 
Burke  feels  for  you  with  a  most  tender  and  cordial 
sympathy ;  as  I  do  very  truly  as  much  as  an  old 
heart  worn  out  with  Incurable  affiction  can  do.  I 
am^  with  my  best  love  to  Mrs.  Aston, 

**  My  dear  Madam^ 
'^  Your  affectionate,  old,  miserable  friend, 

*'  Newington,  Thuxsday.  '*  EdMUND  BuBKE.** 

ft  ■    ■  *     • 

The  following  is  to  his  niece,  written  some  short 
time  after  the  birth  of  her  son* 

^  September  4, 1795. 

"  My  dear  lfttle  Mary, 
*'  Your  aunt  goes  to  London  to  bee  you.  I  cannot 
attetad  her,*  else  you  may  be  sure  I  should  hare 
great  comfort  in  seeing  you  and  your  little  one. 
But  I  cannot  let  her  go  without  telling  you  that  I 
love  you  very  dearly;  and  that  it  is  my  earnest 
prayer  to  Almighty  God  that  you  may  live  long  and 
happily ;  and  that  you  may  see  your  son  f  k  8iq>port 
to  your  old  age ;  an  honour  and  satisfaction  to  you» 

'*  The  cause  was  a  visit  to  Mr.  Burke^  iran  somo  memben  of 
tbe  royal  family  of  France : — the  present  King,  and  the  Duloes  de 
Berri  and  iD'Angouleme. 

f  The  present  Mr.  Thomas  Haviland  Bnrke. 


313  LIFE  or  THS 

•ward,  wholly  dissents  from  his  views  as  exfailnted  ill 
this  wk>ric,  and  expresses  that  dissent  in  the  strongest 
terms  he  can  use.  The  first  paragraph,  it  will  he 
ohserved,  displays  that  desponding  and  occasionally 
qnemloiis  tone  which  he  assumed  when  subdned  by 
private  grief,  or  by  the  contemplation  of  farther 
public  calamity  from  the  ill  success  of  our  own  and 
the  arms  of  our  allies  against  republican  France  <m 
the  Continent,  where,  above  all  other  places,  he 
urged,  success  was  most  to  be  desired*  ^  Buried  in 
the  anticipated  grave  of  a  feeble  old  age,  fbrgettiim^ 
and  forgotten,"  must  therefore  be  taken  as  words  of 
course.  They  could  not,  with  any  truth,  be  applied 
to  himself,  whose  miental  enei^es  were  constantiy 
acting  through  the  press  in  as  strong  and  as  bright 
a  manner  as  they  ever  were ;  whose  doctrines  were 
constantly  in  discussion ;  whose  name  was  daily 
bandied  about  in  every  form  of  publication  frx)m 
the  newspaper  to  the  quarto,  a  theme  of  alternate 
praise  and  censure,  even  much  more  than  most  of 
the  ministers  of  the  country;  and  from  whose 
thoughts  public  topics  were  never  for  any  lengA  of 
time  absent.^*^ 

^  My  dbar  Lord, 

*'  I  am  perfectly  sensible  of  the  very  flattering 
honour  you  have  done  me  in  turning  any  part  c€ 
your  attention  towards  a  dejected  old  man,  biiitied  in 
the  anticipated  grave  of  a  feeble  old  age,  foi^;etting 
and  forgotten  in  an  obscure  and  melancholy  retreat. 

**  In  this  retreat  I  have  nothing  relative  to  this 
world  to  do  but  to  study  all  the  tranquillity  that  in 
the  state  of  my  mind  I  am  capable  of.     To  that  enct 


RIGHT  dOK.  £DMtT^A  BURKE.  ^1^ 

I  find  it  but  too  necessary  to  eab  to  iii^  aicl  an 
oblivion  of  most  of  the  circumstances  pleasant  and 
unpleasant  of  my  Ufe ;  to  think  as  little,  and  indeed 
to  know  as  little  as  I  can  of  every  thing  that  is 
doing  about  me ;  and,  above  all,  to  divert  my  mind 
from  all  presagings  and  progno^ications  of  what  I 
must  (if  I  let  my  speculations  loose)  consider  as  of 
absolute  necessity  to  happen  after  my  death,  and 
possibly  even  before  it.  Your  address  to  the  public 
which  you  have  been  so  good  as  to  send  to  me^ 
obliges  me  to  break  in  upon  that  plan,  and  to  look  a 
little  on  what  is  behind,  and  very  much  on  what  is 
before  me.  It  creates  in  my  mind  a  variety  of 
thoughts,  and  all  of  them  unpleasant. 

**  It  is  true,  my  Lord,  what  you  say,  that  through 
our  public  life,  we  have  generally  sailed  on  some- 
what different  tacks.  We  have  so  undoubtedly,  and 
we  should  do  so  still,  if  I  had  continued  longer  to 
keep  the  sea.  In  that  difference  you  rightly  observe 
that  I  have  always  done  justice  to  your  skill  and 
ability  as  a  navigator,  and  to  your  good  intentions 
towards  the  safety  of  the  cargo  and  of  the  ship's 
company.  I  cannot  say  now  that  we  are  on  different 
tacks.  There  would  be  no  propriety  in  the  meta^ 
phor.  I  can  sail  no  longer.  My  vessel  cannot  be 
said  to  be  even  in  port.  She  is  wholly  ooiidemned 
and  broken  up.  To  have  an  idea  of  that  vessel  you 
must  call  to  mind  what  you  have  often  seen  on  the 
Kentish  road.  Those  planks  of  tough  and  hardy 
oak  that  used  for  years  to  brave  the  buffets  of  ttie 
Bay  of  Biscay,  are  now  turned  with  their  warped 
grain  and  empty  trunnion  holes  into  very  wretched 
pales  for  the  enclosure  of  a  wretched  fiarm-yard. 


814  JLIFfi  OP  THE 

^  The  style  of  your  pamphlet,  and  the  eloquence 
and  power  of  composition  you  display  in  it»  are 
such  as  do  great  honour  to  your  talents ;  and  in 
conveying  any  other  sentiments  would  give  me  very 
great  pleasure.  Perhaps  I  do  not  very  perfectly 
comprehend  your  purpose,  and  the  drift  of  your 
arguments.  If  I  do  not — ^pray  do  not  attribute  my 
mistake  to  want  of  candour,  but  to  want  of  saga* 
dty.  I  confess  your  address  to  the  public,  togedier 
with  other  accompanying  circumstances,  has  filled 
me  with  a  degree  of  grief  and  dismay  which  I 
camiot  find  words  to  express.  If  the  plan  of  politics 
there  recommended,  pray  excuse  my  fireedom,  diould 
be  adopted  by  the  King's  Councils  and  by  the  good 
people  of  this  kingdom  (as  so  recommended  undoubt- 
edly it  will)  nothing  can  be  the  consequence  but 
utter  and  irretrievable  ruin  to  the  Ministry,  to  the 
Crown,  to  the  succession,  to  the  importance,  to  the 
independence,  to  the  very  existence  of  this  country. 

<<  This  is  my  feeble  perhaps,  but  dear,  positive, 
decided,  long  and  maturely-reflected,  and  fire- 
quently  declared  opinion,  firom  which  all  the  events 
whidi  have  lately  come  to  pass,  so  far  from  turning 
me,  have  tended  to  confirm  beyond  the  power  of 
alteration,  even  by  your  eloquence  and  authority.  I 
find,  my  dear  Lord,  that  you  tiiink  some  persons 
who  are  not  satisfied  with  the  securities  of  a  Jacobin 
peace,  to  be  persons  of  intemperate  minds.  I  may 
be,  and  I  fear  I  am  with  you  in  that  description : 
but  pray,  my  Lord,  recollect  that  very  fisw  of  the 
causes  which  make  men  intemperate,  can  operate 
upon  me.  Sanguine  hopes,  vehement  desires,  inor- 
dinate ambition,  implacable  animosity,  party  attach- 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  315^ 

ments^  or  party  mteresfs ;  all  these  with  me  have 
no  existence.  For  myself  or  for  a  family  (alas  !  I 
have  none),  I  hate  nothing  to  hope  or  to  fear  in  this 
world.  I  am  attached  by  principle,  inclination,  and 
gratitude  to  the  King,  and  to  the  present  Ministry. 

^*  Perhaps  you  may  think  that  my  animosity  to 
Ofqposition  is  the  cause  of  my  dissent  on  seeing  the 
politics  of  Mr.  Fox  (which  while  I  was  in  the  world 
I  combated  by  every  instrument  which  God  had  put 
into  my  hands,  and  in  every  situation  in  which  I 
had  taken  part),  so  completely  adopted  in  your 
Lordship's  book :  but  it  was  with  pain  I  broke  with 
that  great  man  for  ever  in  that  cause— and  I  assure 
you,  it  is  not  without  pain  that  I  differ  with  your 
Lordship  on  the  same  principles.  But  it  is  of  no 
eoncem.  I  am  far  below  the  region  of  those  great 
and  tempestuous  passions.  I  feel  nothing  of  the 
intemperance  of  mind.  It  is  rather  sorrow  and 
dejection  than  anger. 

*'  Once  more  my  best  thanks  for  your  very  polite 
attention,  and  do  me  the  favour  to  believe  me  with 
the  most  perfect  sentiments  of  respect  and  regard, 

**  My  dear  Lord, 

"  Your  Lordship's 
^  Most  obedient  and  humble  servant, 

"  Beaconsfield,  Oct.  SO,  1795.  "  E.  BUKKE.'* 

The  work  thus  sent  and  acknowledged  'was  a 
pamphlet  intended  to  be  published  in  London  on  the 
same  day,  under  the  title  of  ''  Remarks  an  the  Ap^ 
parent  Circumstances  of  the  War  in  the  Fourth 
Week  of  October,  1796."  Its  main  purpose  was  to 
insinuate,  for  nothing  was  distinctly  recommended. 


316  LIFE  OF  THfi 

the  propriety  of  peace  with  France— that  the  thing 
was  desirable  and  the  moment  favoiurable;  both 
which  propositions  are  refuted  by  his  correspondent 
with  much  sarcastic  humour  and  vigour  of  reason- 
ing in  the  "  Fourth  Letter  on  a  Regicide  Peace^ 
addressed  to  Earl  Pitzwilliam,  which,  though  pub- 
lished only  in  his  posthumous  works,  was  the  first  of 
the  series  begun  on  that  subject.  Lord  Auckland 
therefore,  has  the  merit,  indirectly,  of  having  been 
the  occasion  of  writing  these  able  essays;  their 
opinions,  it  will  be  observed,  were  nearly  as  oppo- 
site as  they  had  been  on  the  American  war ;  and  on 
both  subjects  it  will  not  require  much  deliberation 
to  decide  to  whom  is  to  be  given  the  award  of 
superior  sagacity. — 

**  A  piece  has  been  sent  to  me,^'  he  says  in  the 
letter  just  mentioned,  '^  called  *  Remarks  on  the 
apparent  Circumstances  of  the  War  in  the  Fourth 
Week  of  October,  1795,'  with  a  French  motto — 
Que  faire  encore  une  fois  done  une  teUe  nuit  f — 
Attendre  le  jour.  The  very  title  seemed  to  me 
striking  and  peculiar,  and  to  announce  somethiiig 
uncommon. 

**  In  the  time  I  have  lived  to,  I  always  seem  to 
walk  on  enchanted  groimd.  Every  thing  is  new, 
and,  according  to  the .  fashionable  phrase,  revolu- 
tionary. In  the  former  days  authors  valued  them- 
selves upon  the  maturity  and  fulness  of  their  delibe- 
rations. Accordingly  they  predicted  (perhaps  with 
more  arf'ogance  than  reason)  an  eternal  duration  to 
their  works.  The  quite  contrary  is  our  pres^it 
fashion.  Writers  value  themselves  now  on  the  in- 
stability of  their  opinions,  and  the  transitory  life  of 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  317 

iheir  productions.  On  this  kind  of  credit  the  mo<* 
dern  institutors  open  their  schools.  They  write  for 
youth,  and  it  is  sufficient  if  the  instruction  *  lasts  as 
long  as  a  present  love/ — or  as  *  the  painted  silks  and 
cottons  of  the  season.' 

'*  The  doctrines  in  this  work  are  applied,  for  their 
standard,  with  ^eat  exactness  to  the  shortest  pos- 
sible periods  both  of  conception  and  duration.  The 
title  is,  **  Some  Remarks  on  the  apparent  Circum- 
stances of  the  War  in  the  Fourth  Week  of  October, 
1795.'  The  time  is  critically  chosen.  A  month  or 
so  earlier  would  have  made  it  the  anniversary  of  a 
bloody  Parisian  September,  when  the  French  massa-^ 
ere  one  another.  A  day  or  two  later  would  have 
carried  it  into  a  London  November,  the  gloomy 
month,  in  which  it  is  said  by  a  pleasant  author  that 
Englishmen  hang  and  drown  themselves.  In  truth, 
this  work  has  a  tendency  to  alarm  us  with  symptoms 
of  public  suicide.  However,  there  is  one  comfort 
to  be  taken  even  from  the  gloomy  time  of  year.  It 
is  a  rotting  season.  If  what  is  brought  to  market  is 
not  good,  it  is  not  likely  to  keep  long.  Even  build- 
ings run  up  in  haste  with  untempered  mortar  in  that 
humid  weather,  if  they  are  ill-contrived  tenements, 
do  not  threaten  long  to  encumber  the  earth. 

**  The  author  tells  us  (and  I  believe  he  is  the  very 
first  author  that  ever  told  such  a  thing  to  his  read- 
ers) ^  that  the  entire  fabric  of  his  speculations  might, 
be  overset  by  unforeseen  vicissitudes ; '  and  what  is 
far  more  extraordinary,  <  that  even  the  whole  consi- 
deration might  be  varied  whilst  he  was  writing  those 
pages.*  Truly,  in  my  poor  judgment,  this  drcunir 
stance  fonned  a  very  substantial  motive  for  his  not 


r 


818  LIFE   OF   THE 

publishing  those  ill-considered  considerations^  at  all. 
He  ought  to  have  followed  the  good  advice  of  his 
motto,  Quejbire  encore  dans  une  telle  nuit  f — Atten^ 
dre  le  jour.  He  ought  to  have  waited  till  he  had 
got  a  little  more  day-light  on  this  subject.  Night 
itself  is  hardly  darker  than  the  fogs  of  that  time. 

"  Finding  the  last  week  in  October  so  particularly 
referred  to,  and  not  perceiving  any  particular  event 
relative  to  the  war,  which  happened  on  any  of  the 
days  in  that  week,  I  thought  it  possible  that  they 
were  marked  by  some  astrological  superstition,  to 
which  the  greatest  politicians  have  been  subject.  I 
therefore  had  recourse  to  my  Rider's  Almanac 
There  I  found  indeed,  something  that  characterized 
the  work,  and  that  gave  directions  concerning  the 
sudden  political  and  natural  variations,  and  for  es- 
chewing the  maladies,  that  are  most  prevalent  in  that 
aguish  intermittent  season,  '^he  last  week  of  Octo- 
ber.' On  that  week  the  sagacious  astrologer.  Rider, 
in  his  note  on  the  third  column  of  the  calendar  side, 
teaches  us  to  expect  ^  varicAle  and  cold  weather ; ' 
but  instead  of  encouraging  us  to  trust  oturselves  to 
the  haze  and  mist,  and  doubtful  lights  of  that 
diangeable  week,  on  the  answerable  part  of  the 
opposite  page,  he  gives  us  a  salutary  caution  (indeed 
it  is  very  nearly  in  the  words  of  the  author's  motto) : 
*  Avoid  (says  he)  being  out  late  at  nighty  and  in 
foggy  weather,  for  a  cold  now  caught  may  last  the 
whole  winter.^  This  ingenious  author,  who  dis- 
dained the  prudence  of  the  almanac, .  walked  out  in 
the  very  fog  he  complains  of,  and  has  led  us  to  a 
very  unseasonable  airing  at  that  time.  Whilst  this 
noble  writer,  by  the  vigour  of  an  excellent  constitu- 


BIGHT   HON.  KDMITND  BUltKE.  fltl9 

tion,  formed  for  the  violent  changes  he  prognosti- 
cates, may  shake  off  the  importunate  rheum  and 
malignant  influenza  of  this  disagreeable  week,  a 
whole  Parliament  may  go  on  spitting  and  snivelling, 
and  wheezing  and  coughing,  during  a  whole  session. 
All  this  from  listening  to  variable,  hebdomadal  poli- 
ticians, who  run  away  from  then-  opinions  without 
giving  us  a  month's  warning ;  and  for  not  listening 
to  the  wise  and  friendly  admonitions  of  Dr.  Carda- 
mus  Rider,  who  never  apprehends  he  may  change 
his  opinions  before  his  pen  is  out  of  his  hand,  but 
always  enables  us  to  lay  in,  at  least,  a  year's  stock 
of  useful  information. 

**  At  first  I  took  comfort.     I  said  to  myself,  that 
if  I  should,  as  I  fear  I  must,  oppose  the  doctrines  ^ 
the  last  week  of  October,  it  is  probable,  that,  by  this 
time,  they  are  no  longer  those  of  the  eminent  writer 
to  whom  they  are  attributed.     He  gives  us  hopes, 
that  long  before  this  hd  may  have  embraced  the 
direct  contrary  sentiments.     If  I  am  found  in  a  con- 
flict with  those  of  the  last  week  of  October,  I  may 
be  in  full  agreement  with  those  of  the  last  week 
in  December,  or  in  the  first  week  of  January,  1796. 
But  a  second  edition,  and  a  French  translation  (for 
the   benefit,  I  must  suppose,  of  the  new  Regicide 
Directory)  have  let  down  a  little  of  these  flattering 
hopes.    We  and  the  Directory  know  that  the  au- 
thor, whatever  changes  his  works  seemed  made  to 
indicate,  like  a  weather««ock  grown  rusty,  remains 
just  where  he  was  in  the  last  week  of  last  October. 
It  is  true,  that  his  protest  against  binding  him  to 
his  opinions,  and  his  reservation  of  a  right  to  what- 
ever opinions  he  pleases,  remain  in  their  fiiQ  force. 


S9Q  LIFE  OF  THE 

This  variabilitjT  is  feasant,  and  shows  a  fertilitjr 
of  fancy; 

**  Yet,  doing  all  justice  to '  the  sportive  yarialnlity 
of  these  weekly,  daily,  or  hourly  speculators,  shall 
I  be  pardoned,  if  I  attempt  a  word  on  the  part 
of  us  simple  country  folk  ?  It  is  not  good  for  a», 
however  it  may  be  so  for  great  statesmen,  that  we 
should  be  treated  with  variable  politics.  I  consider 
different  relations  as  prescribing  a  different  conduct. 
I  allow  that,  in  transactions  with  an  enemy,  a  Mi« 
nister  may,  and  often  must,  vary  his  demands  with 
the  day,  and  possibly  with  the  hour.  With  an  ene- 
my, a  fixed  plan,  variable  arrangements.  This  is 
the  rule  the  nature  of  the  transaction  prescribes. 
«  »  «  «  « 

*^  Such  is  the  spirit  of  the  proceedings  in  the 
doubtful  and  transitory  state  of  things  between  en^ 
mity  and  friendship.  In  this  change  the  subjects 
of  the  transformation  are  by  nature  carefully  wrap* 
ped  up  in  their  coccoons.  The  gay  ornament  of 
summer  is  not  seemly  in  his  aurelia  state.  This 
mutability  is  allowed  to  a  foreign  negociator ;  but 
when  a  great  politician  condescends  publicly  to  in* 
struct  his  own  countrymen  on  a  matter  which  may 
fix  their  fate  for  ever,  his  opinions  ought  not  to  be 
diurnal,  or  even  weekly.  These  ephemerides  of 
politics  are  not  made  for  our  slow  and  coarse  under* 
Standings.  Our  appetite  demands  a  piece  qfreei^ 
ance*  We  require  some^food  that  will  stick  to  the 
ribs.  We  call  for  sentiments  to  which  we  can  attach 
ourselves ;  sentiments  in  which  we  can  take  an  inte* 
rest ;  sentiments  on  which  we  can  warm,  on  which 
we  can  ground  soine  confidence  in  ourselves  or  ta 


BIOHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE..  $21 

others.  We  do  not  want  a  largess  of  inconstancy. 
Poor  souls,  we  have  enough  of  that  sort  of  poverty 
at  home.  There  is  a  difference  too  between  delibe- 
ration and  doctrine :  a  man  ought  to.  be  decided  in 
his  opinions  before  he  attempts  to  teach.  His  fugi- 
tive lights  may  serve  himself  in  some  unknown  re- 
gion, but  they  cannot  free  us  from  the  effects  of  the 
error  into  which  we  have  been  betrayed.  His  active 
Will-o*-the-Wisp  may  be  gone,  nobody  can  guess 
whither,  whilst  he  leaves  us  bemired  and  benighted 
in  the  bog." 

It  was  about  this  time  that  his  ingenious  friend 
Mr.  Smith,  who  had  distinguished  himself  in  the 
Irish  House  of  Commons  by  a  speech  in  favour  of 
Roman  Catholic  emancipation  in  the  spirit  of  the 
advice  of  his  great  correspondent,  printed  and  sent  it 
to  him.  There  is  something  at  once  very  affecting 
and  eloquent  in  the  first  paragraph  of  the  reply  of 
Burke ;  it  alludes  of  course  to  the  loss  of  his  son. — 

*•  My  dear  Sir, 

**  I  could  not  without  ingratitude  defer  my  ac- 
knowledgments of  your  letter,  which  breathes  the 
very  spirit  of  sjonpathy  and  condolence.  Others 
have  offered  me  comfort,  but  not  of  a  kind  that  I 
could  accept.  You  alone  have  touched  the  chord  to 
which  my  feelings  vibrate ;  and  touched  it  the  more 
soothingly  because  you  have  touched  it  sadly. — Yes ; 
— ^the  life  which  has  been  so  embittered  cannot  long 
endure. — The  grave  will  soon  close  over  me  and  my 
dejections. — But  I  will  not  make  so  ill  a  return  for 
your  kindness  as  to  overcast  your  young  mind  with 
the  gloom  that  covers  mine. 

VOL.  u.  Y 


8S8  LIFE  OF   THE 

*'  I  hare  read  your  speech  with  the  greatest  sa^ 
tisfection.    Yet  I  am  assured  l^  some  who  heard 
you,  that  it  is  not  done  justice  to  in  the  report     Be 
this  as  it  may,  take  my  word  for  it  you  will  never 
live  to  repent  of  the  vote  which  you  have  given,  or 
to  hlush  for  the  arguments  with  which  you  have 
supported  your  opinion.     They  are  free  from  all  the 
Jacobinic  impurity  of  our  day ;  and  drawn  from  the 
pure  and  genuine  sources  of  the  constitution.     The 
allusion  with  which  you  open  to  what  had  been  said 
by  a  member  who  preceded  you  in  the  debate  is  a 
very  happy  one;    and  gives  a  spirited  air  of  im- 
promptu to  the  entire  speech.      It  seems  to  show 
that  though  your  general  topics  might  have  been 
revolved,  your  ideas  were  allowed  to  arrange  and 
clothe  themselves  on  the  spot.     Lucan  had  little 
notion  that  he  was  expressing  a  great  political  and 
moral  truth,  when  he  wrote  that  line  of  which  yoa 
have  made  so  felicitous  a  use.*    You  had  already 
apprized  me  that  you  were  a  Christ  Chuich  man  ; 
but  I  must  give  you  credit  for  having  turned  this 
fact  to  so  good  and  argumentative  a  purpose* 

''  In  tracing  any  of  your  reasoning  to  me,  as 
having  supplied  its  source,  you  do  me  aa  h<Mu>ur 
which  I  might  be  proud  of,  but  which  I  caa 
scarcely  claim.  Unless-  in  a  passage  in  which  yea 
suggest  that  the  half  citizen  might  become  whole 
Jacobin,  I  meet  with  no  argument  which  recals 
any  thing  that  I  had  written  to  my  mind.  I  have 
about  as  mudi  share  in  the  merits  of  your  speech,  as 

"*  — ^  imagur  teUms 

SUU  quia  wmmaJitgiL 
Used  for  the  purpose  of  Bhowing  that  superficial  chanfe  may 
produce  fundamental  stabiUQr. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  383 

the  bell-*ringer  had  in  the  merits  of  the  dermon  to 
which  he  had  been  suftimoning  a  congregation. 
What  assistance  you  may  have  received  firom  your 
good  father,  to  whom  I  beg  to  offer  my  respects*  I 
cannot  say.  I  am  aware  that  you  are  treading  in 
his  political  footsteps ;  and  I  congratulate  yau  on 
having  subh  a  pattern ;  and  him  on  having  such  an 
imitator, 

^'  Pardon  the  length  of  this  letter.  I  little  thought 
when  I  began  it  that  I  should  have  an  apology  of 
this  land  to  offer. — ^Adieu ! 

"  Your's,  &c.  &c. 

"  Edmund  Burke. 

«  To  Wm.  Smith,  Esq/' 

Considerable  distress  arising  about  this  time  from 
the  dearness  of  provisions,  and  manyremedial  schemes 
being  in  consequence  proposed  for  the  adoption  of 
govermnenty  he  collected  and  addressed  to  Mr.  Pitt 
in  November  of  this  year,  ^*  Thoughts  and  Details 
on  Scarcity."     In  this  tract  are  expounded,  in  an 
intelligible  manner,  some  of  the  doctrines  of  political 
ecQUomists  bearing  upon  agriculture  as  a  trade.     He 
adverts  likewise  to  the  absurdity  of  some  of  the 
schemes  proposed  to  be  carried  into  effect,  such  ai 
settling  a  maximum  of  prices,  regulating  the  wages 
of  labour  between  farmer  and  servant  by  authority, 
and  establishing  public  granaries  in  towns  by  go- 
vernment to  supply  the  wants  of  the  people  at  a 
fixed  price.     To  those  who  are  most  clamorous  in  a 
dear  season,  he  puts  the  argument  thus — 

*' The  cry  of  the  people  in  cities  and  to wns,  though 
imfortunately  from  a  fear  of  their  multitude  and 

Y  2 


S34  LIFE  OF  THE 

combinatioii,  the  most  regarded,  ought  in  fad  to  be 
the  least  attended  to  on  this  subject ;  for  citizens  are 
in  a  state  of  utter  ignorance  of  the  means  by  whidi 
they  are  to  be  fed,  and  they  contribute  little  or  no* 
thing,  except  in  an  infinitely  circuitous  manner,  to 
their  own  maintenance.  They  are  **  Bruges  can- 
sumere  naii.^'  They  are  to  be  heard  with  great  re- 
spect and  attention  upon  matters  within  their  pro- 
vince, that  is,  on  trades  and  manufactures ;  but  on 
any  thing  that  relates  to  agriculture,  they  are  to  be 
listened  to  with  the  same  reverence  which  we  pay  to 
the  dogmas  of  other  ignorant  and  presumptuous 
men. 

"  If  any  one  were  to  tell  them,  that  they  were  to 
give  in  an  account  of  all  the  stock  in  their  shops  ; 
that  attempts  would  be  made  to  limit  their  profits, 
or  raise  the  price  of  the  labouriug  manufacturers 
upon  them ;  or  recommend  to  government,  out  of  a 
capital  from  the  public  revenues,  to  set  up  a  shop 
of  the  same  commodities  in  order  to  rival  them  and 
keep  them  to  reasonable  dealing,  they  would  very- 
soon  see  the  impudence,  injustice,  and  oppression  of 
such  a  course.  They  would  not  be  mistaken ;  bat 
they  are  of  opinion  that  agriculture  is  to  be  subject 
to  other  laws,  and  to  be  governed  by  other  principles. 

''A  greater  and  more  ruinous  mistake  cannotbe  fallen 
into  than  that  the  trades  of  agriculture  and  grazing  can 
be  conducted  upon  any  other  than  the  common  princi- 
ples of  commerce ;  namely,  that  the  producer  should 
be  permitted  and  even  expected  to  look  to  all  possible 
profit,  which  without  fraud  or  violence  he  can  make ; 
to  turn  plenty  or  scarcity  to  the  best  advantage  he 


RIGHT   HON    £DMUKD   BURKE.  895 

can ;  to  keep  back  or  to  bring  forward  bis  commo- 
dities at  pleasure ;  to  account  to  no  one  for  bis  stock 
or  for  bis  gain.  On  any  otber  terms  be  is  tbe  slave 
of  tbe  consumer ;  and  tbat  be  sbould  be  so  is  of  no 
benefit  to  tbe  consumer/' 

On  tbe  general  principle  of  legislative  interference 
on  sucb  matters,  particularly  in  seasons  of  scarcity, 
be  says — 

**  In  tbat  state  of  affairs  and  of  tbe  public  witb 
relation  to  tbem,  tbe  first  tbing  tbat  government 
owes  to  us,  tbe  people,  is  information ;  tbe  next  is 
timely  coercion ; — tbe  one  to  guide  oiu:  judgment, 
tbe  otber  to  regulate  our  tempers. 

**  To  provide  for  us  in  our  necessities  is  not  in  tbe 
power  of  government.  It  would  be  a  vain  presump- 
tion in  statesmen  to  tbink  tbey  can  do  it.  Tbe  peo- 
ple maintain  tb^m,  and  not  tbey  tbe  people.  It  is 
in  tbe  power  of  government  to  prevent  mucb  evil ; 
it  can  do  very  little  positive  good  in  tbis  or  perbaps 
in  any  tbing  else.  It  is  not  only  so  of  tbe  state  and 
statesman,  but  of  all  tbe  classes  and  descriptions  of 
tbe  ricb — tbey  are  tbe  pensioners  of  tbe  poor,  and 
are  maintained  by  tbeir  superfluity.  Tbey  are  un- 
der an  absolute,  bereditary,  and  indefeasible  depend- 
ence on  tbose  wbo  labour  and  are  miscalled  tbe  poor. 

*'  Tbe  labouring  people  are  only  poor  because 
tbey  are  numerous.  Numbers  in  tbeir  nature  imply 
poverty.  In  a  fair  distribution  among  a  vast  multi- 
tude none  can  bave  mucb.  Tbat  class  of  dependent 
pensioners  called  tbe  ricb  is  so  extremely  small,  tbat 
if  all  their  tbroats  were  cut,  and  a  distribution  made 
of  all  tbey  consume  in  a  year,  it  would  not  give  a 


^  I 


8S6  LIFE   OF   THE 

bit  of  bread  and  cheese  for  one  night's  supper  to 
those  who  labour,  and  who  in  reality  feed  both  the 
pensioners  and  themselves. 

''  But  the  throats  of  the  rich  ought  not  to  be  cut, 
nor  their  magazines  plundered ;  because  in  their  per- 
sons  they  are  trustees  for  those  who  labour,  and  their 
hoards  are  the  banking-houses  of  these  latter.  Whe» 
ther  they  mean  it  or  not,  they  do  in  effect  execute 
their  trust — some  with  more,  some  with  less  fidelity 
and  judgment.  But  on  the  whole,  the  duty  is  pan- 
formed  and  every  thing  returns^  deducting  some  very 
trifling  commission  and  discount,  to  the  place  firom 
whence  it  arose.  When  the  poor  rise  to  destroy  the 
rich,  they  act  as  wisely  for  their  own  purposes  as 
when  they  bum  mills  and  throw  com  .into  the  river, 
to  make  cheap  bread." 

Adverting  to  the  impolicy  of  stopping  the  distil- 
lery from  an  idea  of  its  affecting  the  price  9f  com, 
when  in  reality  it  was  damaged  corn  unfit  for  bread, 
and  the  very  lowest  quality  of  barley  and  malt  that 
were  used  for  the  purpose,  he  considers  the  spirit  as 
^  dear  gain  to  the  nation,"  and  its  loss  as  a  serious 
deduction  from,  the  articles  of  revenue  and  trader 
The  half-jocular  apology  for  its  use  exhibits  tiie 
same  just  appreciation  of  the  habits  and  wants  <^ 
mankind  in  opposition  to  the  inconsiderate  condem- 
nation of  common-place  moralists  and  {diiloeo- 
phers— *-  « 

**  Aato  what  is  said  in  a  physical  and  moral  view 
against  the  home  consumption  of  spirits,  experience 
has  long  since  taught  me  very  little  to  respect  the 
declamations  on  that  subject — ^Whether  the  thunder 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BUKKE.  S37 

of  the  laws,  or  the  thunder  of  eloquence  *  be  hurled 
on  gin^'  always  I  am  thunder  proof.  The  alembic 
in  my  mind  has  furnished  the  world  a  far  greater 
benefit  and  blessing,  than  if  the  opus  maximum  had 
been  really  found  by  chemistry,  and  like  Midas,  we 
could  turn  every  thing  into  gold." 

Haying  attended  to  him  on  this  topic  as  an  eco* 
nomist  and  moralist,  let  us  hear  him  conclude  it  as  a 
physician ;  there  are  few  perhaps  who  will  not  coin* 
eide  in  opinions  so  well  sustained  by  facts. 

*^  Undoubtedly  there  may  be  a  dangerous  abuse  in 
fheexceas  of  spirits ;  and  at  one  time  I  am  ready  to 
believe  the  abuse  was  great.  When  spirits  are  cheap, 
the  business  of  drunkenness  is  achieved  with  little 
time  or  labour,  but  that  evil  I  consider  to  be  nearly 
done  away.  Observation  for  the  last  forty  years,  and 
very  particularly  for  the  last  thirty,  has  furnished 

• 

me  with  ten  instances  of  drunkenness  from  other 
causes,  for  one  from  this.  Ardent  spirit  is  a  great 
medicine,  often  to  remove  distempers — ^much  more 
frequently  to  prevent  them,  or  to  chase  them  away 
in  their  beginnings.  It  is  not  nutritive  in  any  great 
degree.  But  if  not  food,  it  greatly  alleviates  the 
want  of  it.  It  invigorates  the  stomach  for  the  di* 
gestion  of  poor  meagre  diet  not  easily  alliable  to 
the  human  constitution.  Wine  the  poor  cannot 
touch ;  beer,  as  applied  to  many  occasions  (a»  among 
seamen  and  fishermen  for  instance)  will  by  no  means 
do  the  business.  Let  me  add,  what  wits  inspired  with 
champaign  and  claret  will  turn  into  ridicule — it  is 
medicine  for  the  mind.  Under  the  pressure  of  the 
cares  and  sorrows  of  our  mortal  condition,  men  have 


SS8  MF£   OF   TH£ 

at  all  times  and  in  all  countries,  called  in  8<mie  phy- 
sical aid  to  their  moral  consolations — ^wine,  beer, 
opium,  brandy,  or  tobacco." 

Few  things,  it  has  been  often  remarked,  escaped 
the  comprehensive  range  of  his  observatioh ;  nothing 
indeed  which  more  particularly  concerned  the  well- 
being,  the  necessities,  the  business,  or  the  desires  of 
men  generally,  or  those  more  immediately  around 
him.  His  knowledge  of  farming,  and  of  stock  live 
and  dead,  was  so  highly  estimated  by  his  neighbours 
as  to  occasion  frequent  applications  for  advice  upon 
such  matters.  He  surprised  a  distinguished  literary 
and  political  character  who  about  this  time  paid  him 
a  visit,  by  entering  into  a  history  of  rural  affairs,  of 
the  rents,  taxes,  the  variations  in  the  poor's  rates  of 
fifty  parishes  in  the  county  during  several  consecutive 
years,  and  the  improvements  adopted  by  the  neigh- 
bourhood in  tillage  and  grazing,  with  the  fulness  of 
a  farmer  who  had  little  else  to  attend  to,  though  it 
might  be  supposed  that  the  meditation  and  contention 
attendant  on  a  most  active  public  life,  had  left  little 
time  for  acquiring  and  retaining  such  details. 

The  *'  Thoughts  on  Scarcity  "  he  had  at  one  time 
determined  to  enlarge  by  the  introduction  of  much 
more  of  the  same  kind  of  facts,  furnished  from  his 
own  observation,  and  to  re-model  and  publish  them 
under  the  title  of  *^  Letters  on  Rural  (Economics, 
addressed  to  Mr.  Arthur  Young."  The  work  was 
even  advertized,  but  the  more  urgent  claims  of  poli- 
tics probably  caused  it  to  be  at  first  deferred  and 
finally  relinquished.  Few  could  have  given  to  such 
a  subject  a  more  popular  form,  or  perhaps  more  real 
knowledge,  as  his  letters  to  his  cousin  Mr.  Garret 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BUBK£.  3Sd 

Nagle,  which  relate  chiefly  to  rural  matters,  display. 
In  the  beginning  of  this  very  sufnmer  also  he  had, 
from  the  appearance  of  the  young  wheat,  predicted 
an  insufficient  harvest ;  but  finding  little  credence 
given  to  his  prognostics  in  the  country,  he  carried  ift 
large  quantity  of  young  wheat  ears  in  his  carriagie 
to  exhibit  to  his  agricultural  friends  in  town,  who 
proved  nearly  as  incredulous,  until  the  result  fully 
evinced  his  penetration.  Harvest-home  was  always 
celebrated  at  Butler's  Court  with  abundant  hospi- 
tality, the  family  mingling  in  the  gaiety  and  sports 
of  the  time  without  reserve,  and  vying  in  attention 
to  their  humble  guests. 

Several  plans  for  bettering  the  condition  of  the 
poor  in  the  neighbourhood  originated  at  his  sugges- 
tion.    Among  these,  ds  likely  to  promote  a  spirit  of 
honest  independence  which  formed  a  kind  of  pledge 
for  the  existence  of  other  good  qualities,  he  recom- 
mended institutions  for  mutual  suppwt  in  cases  of 
age  and  mfirmity,  in  the  nature  of  benefit  societies, 
which  were  then,  and  are  still,  much  less  common 
among  the  rural  population  than  in  towns.     Of  on^ 
of  these  he  became  a  patron  and  member,  subscribed 
to  it  as  a  poor  man  would  do,  attended  its  meetinggi 
visited  those  who  claimed  reUef,  and  usually  took 
the  opportunity  of  inculcating  sentiments  of  piety, 
loyalty,  order  and  industry  among  its  members.    Se^ 
venty  of  the  brethren  of  this  sodety  clad  in  uMmm- 
ingattended  him  to  the  grave. 
.  "In  1795  and  1796,"  writes  a  gentleman  of  the 
neighbourhood  to  the  author  of  this  work,  «  coni 
became  much  incareased  in  price,  and  the  poor  felt 
the  pressure  severely.    Mr.  Burke,  who  was  ever 


580  LIFE  OF  THE 

fmiinf^y  alive  to  their  wants,  and  never  backward  in 
exerting  himself  to  afford  relief,  had  a  windmill  in 
the  park  at  Butler*B  CSourt,  in  which  he  directed  good 
com  to  be  gronnd,  made  it  into  bread  at  his  own 
]ioiiiae,  and  retailed  it  to  the  poor  at  a  very  reduced 
price.  This  he  said  was  a  better  plan  than  merely 
to  make  them  a  present  of  it.  The  broad  was  of 
course  unadulterated  and  excellent.  He  had  it  iserved 
at  his  own  table.  I  partook  of  it  there ;  and  he  re* 
quested  me  to  t^e  a  loaf  to  Wycombe  in  order  to 
show  to  the  more  opulent  people  in  that  town  and  in 
the  vicinity,  how  much  might  be  done,  and  with 
comparatively  little  trouble,  for  the  benefit  of  the 
community.'' 

.  With  the  poor  in  his  neighbourhood  he  was 
generally  a  favourite,  having  the  address  to  can- 
verse  much  with  them,  visit  their  cottages,  overlook 
or  regulate  their  pastimes  as  well  as  their  labours^ 
without  losing  any  thing  of  his  dignity.  StroUixig 
out  at  a  very  late  period  of  his  life  during  the  break- 
fast hour  cf  his  people,  he  found  in  a  comer  of  one 
of  the  fields  a  lad,  the  son  of  one  cf  his  superintend- 
ing men  named  Rolfdi  «t  his  morning's  rqmst,  com- 
posed €i  a  kind  of  hodge-podge  very  common  in  the 
county*  Mr.  Burke  tasted  and  commended  it ;  the 
boy  with  some  pride  of  heart  replied,  that  it  was  not 
so  good  as  he  usually  had,  but  if  he  would  come  and 
taste  it  at  dinn^,  and  see  how  well  his  moth^  made 
it  when  ^^  father  was  there,"  he  would  say  it  was 
mudi  better.  ^^  Well  then«  my  boy,  go  home  and  tell 
your  mother  that  I  mean  to  dine  with  yoti  to  day  cff 
tilis  £Eivouxito  diah,.  at  the  usual  hour."  The  bsyt 
executed  his  errand,  to  the  no  small  surprise  of  his 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  S8l 

mother,  who,  however,  not  dotAiting  the  corractoeoi 
of  the  message,  exerted  her  very  best  housewifery 
upon  the  occasion;  and  acoovdingly  <*  the  Master" 
made  his  appearance  at  the  appointed  time^  partook 
heartily  of  their  humble  fare,  and  expressed  himself 
highly  gratified  with  his  visit. 

He  was  firequently  accustomed  upon  public  occa^* 
sions,  and  upon  the  occurrence  of  any  event  gratify- 
ing to  his  private  feelings,  to  treat  his  lahourera  and 
people  about  him  with  a  cask  of  strong  he^,  his 
directions  about  which  were,  when  the  news  was 
particularly  joyous,  to  tap  it  at  both  ends.  Some 
time  before  the  death  of  his  son,  intelligence  was 
brought  to  the  house,  and  communicated  to  the  father 
in  a  hasty  manner,  that  he  had  met  with  a  serious 
accidentwhichendangered  his  life.  The  distress whjeh 
this  occasioned  maybe  conceived,until  a  friend  arrived 
soon  afterwards  with  the  pleasing  information  that 
he  had  sustained  no  bodily  harm.  *'  Call  up  Webster^'' 
cried  out  Mr.  Burice  in  a  moment,  '^  tell  him  to  get 
all  the  assistance  he  can  to  turn  the  largest  movecible 
cask  of  strong  beer  out  of  the  cellar--^fariii^  hither 
Ihe  people  to  partake  of  it — and  be  sure  to  tap  it 
at  both  ends  with  the  largest  gimlet  in  the  house/' 

It  may  be  doubted  whether  his  antipathy  to  revo^ 
lutionary  France  atthis  moment  did  not  extend  in  part 
to  its  produce,  as  the  following  anecdote,  communi- 
cated by  a  gentleman  who  occasionally  visited  him, 
would  almost  seem  to  testify. — *^  Calling  at  Butler^s 
Court  one  day  in  the  year  179^>  aft^  passing  tiurough 
a  drendiing  shower  of  rain,  Mr.  Burke  pcessedme  to 
take  a  glass  of  strong  sherry,  which  he  said  was  of 
his  own  importation,  and  the  very  best  he  could 


SSS  LIFB  OF   THE 

procure.  *  I  cannot,'  he  added,  *  offer  you  farandy, 
for  I  will  never  pay  a  guinea  per  gallon  for  that  or 
for  any  other  article  from  that  country.'  What  would 
he  have  said  had  he  lived  to  see  brandy  forty-eight 
shillings  per  gallon  ?  " 

**  I  cannot  conceive,''  writes  the  same  gentlemaD^ 
^why  Mr.  Burke  should  have  been  suspected  of 
being  a  Roman  Catholic,  when  there  was  nothing 
whatever  to  countenance  such  an  assertion,  except 
his  having  some  relations  of  that  persuasion,  which 
is  a  common  thing  in  Ireland,  arising  from  inter- 
marriages ;  and  his  advocating  their  cause  in  Parlia- 
ment, and  in  the  press.  This  stupid  prejudice  was 
not,  however,  confined  to  the  lower  class  of  people, 
for  I  once  heard  a  person  holding  a  considerable 
office  under  government  term  him  *  a  kiln-dried 
Roman  Catholic'  Shortly  after  this,  it  so  happened 
that  I  was  invited  to  dine  at  Butler's  Court.  *  You 
will  meet,'  said  Mr.  Burke  to  me,  *  the  Bishop  of 
St  Pol  de  Leon  of  the  Roman  Catholic  church,  and 
Dr.  Walker  King,  a  dignified  clergyman  of  our  mare 
Jbrttmate  and  purer  church.'  The  latter  part  of 
the  sentence  was  pronounced  emphatically,  in  allu- 
sion  perhaps  to  the  then  unhappy  state  of  the  French 
church  and  clergy,  and  the  words  made  a  strong 
impression  upon  me,  as  contradicting  so  strongly 
the  ungenerous  imputation  I  had  lately  heard. 

**  At  table  accordingly  I  met  with  the  reverend 
persons  he  had  mentioned,  along  with  several  others 
of  the  right  honourable  gentleman's  friends.  I  shall 
never  forget  the  manner  in  which  he  descended  the 
grand  flight  of  stone  steps  to  receive  me — ^the  cordial 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BU&KE.  SS$ 

pressure  of  his  hand—and  the  graceful  and  dignified 
demeanour  of  introducing  me  to  his  other  guests. 

^  Burke  had  a  way  of  doing  these  little  things 
which  struck  me  as  being  peculiarly  his  own,  and 
calculated  to  make  a  strong  impression  on  the  mind  of 
a  stranger.  He  was  particularly  attentive  in  his  own 
house,  or  at  his  own  table,  to  any  man  who  was  of 
inferior  rank ;  he  would  frequently  address  his  con- 
versation to  such  person  in  order  to  overcome  any 
diffidence  he  might  feel,  and,  as  the  phrase  is,  draw 
him  out  to  exhibit  any  peculiar  merit  or  talent  he 
possessed.  His  own  conversation,  in  his  gayer  mo* 
ments,  was  various  and  excursive ;  he  did  not  dwell 
long  on  common  matters,  but  giving  you  some  bright 
and  brilliant  thoughts  or  happy  phrases  which  it 
seemed  difficult  to  forget,  would  pass  on  to  some 
kindred  or  relative'  topic,  and  throw  out  the  cor- 
ruscations  of  his  wit  or  imagination  upon  that  also, 
thus  keeping  up  a  kind  of  intellectual  sharp-shooting 
on  every  subject  that  offered. 

**  It  will  be  supposed  there  was  some  effort  in 
this,  and  it  is  not  improbable ;  but  it  was  not  oh* 
vious.  His  mind,  however,  seemed  to  be  mostly  on 
the  stretch,  and  few  things  escaped  it.  I  think  it 
was  impossible  ever  to  mistake  him  for  an  every-day 
man ;  for  if  in  his  efforts  to  siistain  his  reputation 
for  superiority  in  private  society,  he  sometimes 
failed  in  his  hits,  and  stumbled  into,  or  below,  me- 
diocrity, he  recovered  in  a  moment  his  dignity  and 
proper  station." 

In  October,  1795,  a  grant,  though  somewhat  tardy 
in  its  jEtppearance,  was  at  length  awarded  to  his  emi- 


584  LIFE  OF  THE 

nent  public  services  in  a  pensioki  of  1200/.  per  an- 
niim  on  tiie  citiI  list,  and  aftertrards  another  of 
9BO0L  on  the  foxxr  and  a  half  per  cent  fnnd ;  neitiber 
ef  them  solicited  diredfy  or  indirectly,  but  said  to 
have  originated  in  die  express  wish  of  the  King. 
n»  manner  in  which  this  bounty  came,  formed 
koweyer  no  ol]|ect  of  consideration  with  the  political 
party  to  whdm  he  was  opposed ;  the  simple  fact  of 
zeoeiving  it  being  deemed  sufficient  to  justify  pretty 
strong  eensures  in  Parliament,  and  from  the  less 
respectable  portion  of  it  out  of  doors  connected  with 
the  jvesa,  the  most  rancorous  abuse,  and  the  most 
unjust  and  ungenerous  imputations,  whidi  among 
the  same  class  of  perdons  are  occasionally  current  to 
the  present  day. 

It  was  in  vain  to  urge  that  it  was  deserved  by 
lengthened  and  very  remarkable  public  services-^ 
by  his  personal  disinterestedness  on  many  occasions 
— by  surrendering  about  20,000/.  per  annum  as  his 
perquisites  from  the  Pay  Offic&-*-by  his  Reform  biU^ 
which  for  twelve  years  past  had  saved  the  country 
nearly  80,000/.  annually  in  hard  money,  as  well  as 
the  extinction  of  a  source  of  what  might  have  been 
converted  to  undue  influence  in  Parliament — ^by  the 
reformation  of  the  Pay  Office  in  guarding  against 
the  serious  deficits  so  frequently  experienced  there, 
and  rendering  available  to  the  public  service  about 
1»000,000/.,  the  frequent  amount  of  the  balance  in 
hand— »4md  if  for  nothing  else,  by  his  exertions  against 
the  revolutionary  opinions  of  the  day ;  which  in  tile 
general  belief  warded  off  ihe  most  imminent  peril 
with  whidi  the  constitution  of  the  country  had  been 
threatened  since  the  time  of  James  II.    These  latter 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMUKB  BmtnU  S9ff 

labours,  however,  so  different  are  politieal  tastaa^ 
seaned  to  constitute  his  sole  offence  in  the  eyes  of  hia 
former  coadjutors  and  admirers ;  they  had  no  odnr 
charge  indeed  to  eiBsge  against  him  ;  and  the  ae^ 
e^tance  at  the  pension  was  considered  as  ^  the  oott^ 
summation  of  the  crime.  The  heat  of  the  momeiit 
caused  them  to  forget  that  a  pension  m.  the  uatial 
and  most  open  and  honourable  mode .  of  luwardlng 
great  abilities  devoted  to  tlie  advancement  of  the 
puUic  good ;  that  if  receiving  it  were  9C  proof  of 
corruption,  few  oi  their  own  friends  at  that  moment 
but  were  equally  corrupt ;  and  that  in  fact,  tried  by 
this  standard  of  purity,  there  was  scarcely  a  single 
honest  public  name,  not  teoepting  Lord  CShathaii 
himseir,  to  be  found  in  our  annals.  Against  those 
effusions  of  irritation  rather  than  of  good  senae^ 
good  feeling,  or  sound  argument,  Mr.  Bilrke  had  te 
place  a  public  life  of  thirty  years  of  unsullied  purity, 
which,  in  the  language  of  an  eminent  Whig  when 
alluding  to  the  fact,  '^  was  proof  against  his  own 
embarrassed  dreumstances.'' 
-  The  effects  of  damour  and  abuse,  whether  rij^t 
or  wrong,  when  perseveringly  continued,  are  rarely 
inconsiderable.  Some  even  of  his  admirers  b^an 
to  doubt  the  propriety  of  his  aecepting  the  boon) 
among  whom  was  the  anonymous  author  of  the 
**  Pursuits  of  Literature,"  who,  though  convinced^ 
as  he  said,  that  no  man  ever  better,  or  pbssihtyao 
well,  deserved  public  reward,  seems  inclined  to  tUmb 
he  ought  not  to  have  received  it,  in  order  to  avoid  the 
possibility  of  impirtation  upcfa.  his  mothreft  This  is 
a  refinement  of  fastidiousness  not  to  be  kokril.  Iwi 
scarcely  to  be  desired,  in  the  affairs  of  the  W0rid» 


SS6  LIFE  OF  THE 

aad  wliichy  if  attended  tot  would  preclude  most 
public  eervauts  from  experiendug  any  thing  like 
piri>lic  gratitude.  If  a  statesman  has  honourably 
earned  reward^  if  it  be  honourably  offered  to  his  ac- 
c^tance,  and  if  he  be,  firom  the  nature  of  his  private 
drcnmstmices,  really  in.  want  of  it,  why,  it  may  be 
asked,  should  the  benefit  not  be  received  ?  Would 
it  not  indicate  weakness  rather  than  strength  of 
mind  to  be  frighted  from  it  by  vulgar  abuse,  or  by 
waiting  to  obtain  that  which  never  was,  and  never 
can  be  received  by  any  man — ^universal  assent  to  his 
deserts  ?  Or  is.  it  meant  to  be  maintained  that  the 
insigmficaiat  in  talents,  the  worthless  and  inefficient 
members  of  the  state,  or  those  who  are  already  ridi 
and  do  not  want  it,  are  alone  to  profit  by  the  public 
bounty?  '' The  word  pension,"  said  Lord  Macart- 
ney, a  statesman  of  experience  and  of  unspotted  in- 
tegrity even  in  Indian  when  India  was  a  hot  bed  of 
t^Qiptation  even  to  sturdy  virtue,  *^  gives  great  offence 
to  some  gentlemen;  but  for  my  part  I  haVe  lived 
too  much  in  the  world  to  suffer  myself  to  be  imposed 
upon  by  a  word  or  a  name.  In  every  other  country 
of /Europe,,  a  pulsion  is  considered  the  most  honour- 
able recompence  which  a  subject  can  enjoy — ^I  speak 
of  fr'ee  countries,  such  for  instance  as  Sweden.*  *  '* 
A  peBsi<m  is  infiiniteLy  more  honourable  than  a 
sinecure  office ;  the  one  loudly  speaks  its  meaning, 
but  the  other  hypocritically  lurks  under  a  supposition 
of  duty  whore  there  is  nothing  to  do."  His  Lordship 
might  have  added,  that  though  it  is  the- fashion  ilk 
England  to  rail  against  pensions  whether  well  or 
ill  bestowedf^  most  men,  when  they*  have  the  oj^r* 
tUnity,  find  it  very  convenient  to  accept  thend. 


RIGHT   HON;   EDMUND   BUBKE.  887 

'  The  hostility  to  Mr;  Burke  on  this  oocaaioii  was 
carried  into  the  House  of  Lords  by  the.  Btike  of 
Bedford,  and  the  Earl  of  Lauderdale,  though :  ah* 
swered  by  an  animated  defence  £rom  Lord  Grenyille 
there;  and  from  Mr.  Windham  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons. '  Some  surprise  was  expressed  that  men  of 
such  consideration  in  the  country,  making  every 
allowance  for  party  feelings,  should  display  so  much 
iUiberality  toward  the  defender,  p^rhiaps  the  saviour 
of  that  very  rank  and  property  which  served  to  ele- 
vate them  above  the  mass  of  mankind,  and  from 
an  atom  of  which,  notwithstanding  the  countenance 
given  by  them  to  the  new  opinions,  they  would  have  been 
extremely^ loth  to  part.  It  seemed  ungenerous. that 
this  should  be  done  by  former  associates  in  political 
life,  by  men  who  had  acquic^^iced  in  grants  to  .other, 
though  much  less  distinguii^ed,  public  men  for 
public  services,  and  who  from  their  position  in  the 
state  might  be  supposed  to  rate .  at  its  proper  v^lue 
a  long  and  laborious  career,  and  to  estimate  those 
stiU  more  intense  though  unseen  and  unrewarded 
labours,  which  form  the  toilsome  preparative  to 
pUbJUc  eminence. 

The  attack,  however,  had  the  effect  of  drawing 
forth' the  celebrated  '* Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord;"  on 
the  whole  the  most  brilliant  exhibition,  of  powers 
perhaps  in  the  whole  range  of  English  prose ;  which 
on  first  meeting  with,  the  present  writer  read  over 
twice  (many  parts  half  a  dozen  times)  without  inter- 
mission, and  with  no  ordinary  wonder  at  the  min- 
gled powers  of  sarcasm,  of  irony,  of  indignkmt  remon- 
strance, of  pointed  rebuke,  and  of  imagery,  in  those 
few  but  bold  and  extraordinary  figures,  which  not 

VOL.  II.  Z 


388  LIFE   OF   THE 

Boerely  imiHress  the  mind  of  the  reader  at  the  moment 
by  theur  force,  but  are  seldom  afterwards  forgottea. 
The  striking  passages  whieh  it  contains  are  nearly 
as  numerous^  as  the  sentences — ^the  whole  forming  a 
collection  of  what  may  be  termed  the  flashes  of  in- 
dignant genius,  roused  by  a  sense  of  injury  and 
aggression  to  throw  out  its  consuming  fires  with 
no  common,  force  on  the  heads  of  the  aggressors  v--^ 
**  I  perceive  in  it/*  says  the  author  of  '  The  Thirsuits 
of  Literature/  **  genius,  ability,  dignity,  imagination, 
and  sights  more  than  youthful  poets  when  they 
dreamed,  and  sometimes,  the  philosophy  of  Plato 
and  the  wit  of  Lucian/' 

The  pathetic  lamentation  for  the  loss  of  his  son, 
and  the  glowing  tribute  to  the  memory  of  his  old 
friend,  in  whose  heart,  he  says,  he  had  a  place  till 
the  last  beat.  Lord  Keppel,  uncle  to  the  Duke  of 
Bedford,  show  a  different,  though  not  less  strikinir 
style  of  powers.  It  has  been  objected,  that  the  in- 
troduction of  these  topics,  as  they  have  little  to  do 
with  the  main  question,  are  irrelevant  This  criti- 
cism, even  were  it  just,  is  trifling;  but  in  fact  these 
allusions  evince  much  rhetorical  skill,  by  tending  to 
throw  odium  on  the  illiberal  and  ungenerous  spirit 
shown  in  attacking  a  retired  public  servant,  old, 
infirm  and  desponding,  from  the  loss  of  that  son  who 
would  have  stood  forth  his  defender ;  and  of  the 
ingratitude  of  at  least  one  of  his  assailants  towards 
the  hoBom  friend  and  counsellor  of  his  unde,  and 
the  defender  of  his  honour,  as  he  expressly  tells  us, 
''  in  his  rudest  trials." 

The  jealousies  with  which  he  had  to  encounter 
during  the  whole  of  his  public  career,  and  to  which 


RIGHT   HOIf.  UDMUND   BURKE.  8^ 

allusion  has  been  made  in  this  work,  are  trdfy  ttviy 
and  forcibly  adverted  to  in  the  foll6Wiiig  passage  >^ 

**  I  possessed  not  one  of  the  qualithsi  nor  cultivated 
one  of  the  arts  that  recommend  men  to  the  favour 
and  protection  of  the  great.  I  was  not  made  for  k 
minion  or  a  tool.  As  little  did  I  follow  the  tr^de  of 
winning  the  hearts  by  imposing  on  the  understandings 
of  the  people.  At  every  step  in  my  progress  in  If^e 
(for  in  every  step  was  I  traversed  and  opposed),  and 
at  every  turnpike  I  met,  I  was  obliged  to  show  my 
passport,  and  again  and  again  to  prove  my  sole  titlie 
to  the  honour  of  being  useful  to  my  country  by  a 
proof  that  I  was  not  wholly  unacquainted  with  its 
laws  and  the  whole  systeih  of  its  interiests  bolh 
abroad  and  at  home.  Othisrwise  no  rabk,  no  toleM- 
tion  even  for  me.  I  hiA  tto  arts  but  manly  itttl. 
On  them  I  have  stood,  tod,  please  God,  in  spite  ^ 
the  Duke  of  Bedford,  and  the  fiarl  of  Lauderdale,  to 
the  last  gasp  will  I  stand." 

At  the  Duke,  who  had  long  passed  to  the  coniHioh 
receptacle  of  Whig  and  Tory,  of  Commoner  and 
Peer,  he  particularly  points  his  eprehension.  Htb 
Grace's  little  experience  in  public  bttsihegrtB,  his  p^- 
tiality  to  the  party  whose  tenets  Were  supposed  to 
dap  or  to  threaten  the  foundations  of  all  ^ank  and 
property,  th6  enormous  gi^ants  of  the  c^Wti  to  kk 
family  in  former  days,  and  his  youth,  were  openings 
to  an  effective  assault  from  any  wHter,  but  to  ah 
intellectual  gladiator  like  Mr.  Burke,  offered  oVe#- 
poWidring  advantages.  To  contend  with  such  a  man 
who  poss^sed  every  weapon  of  argument  at  commM<)« 
alwajrs  was  a  service  of  sdme  danger,  for  the  aMeSt 
opponents  never  escaped  from  him  without  bewilg 

zS 


840  LIFE   OF  THE 

-traces  of  some  grievous  infliction ;  like  the  electrical 
.fish,  if  you  touched  him  in  hostility  he  shook  yovL 
to  your  centre.  ^"  I  decline,"  said  the  indignant 
vetei'an,  ^  his  Grace's  jurisdiction  as  a  judge. '  I  chal- 
lenge the  Duke  of  Bedford  as  a  juror  to  pass  upon 
the  value  of  my  services.  I  cannot  recognize  ifr  his 
few  and  idle  years,  the  competence  to  judge  ^of  my 
long  and  laborious  life.'' 

Not  content  with  overthrowing  the  politician,  he 
aims  a  more  deadly  blow  at  his  possessions  in  alluding 
to  the  mode  by  which  they  were  said  to  be  acquired : 
one  of  the  figures  used  is  equaUy  singular  and  power- 
ful,, rising  as  it  does  to  a  high  strain  of  eloquence, 
and  furnishing  one  of  the  most  forcible  examples  in 
rhetoric  of  the  argumentum  ad  hominem, — ^*  The 
.grants  to  the  house  of  Russel  (by  Henry  VIII.)  were 
so  enormous  as  not  only  to  outrage  economy,  but 
even  to  stagger  credibility.  The  Duke  of  Bedford 
is  the  leviathan  among  all  the  creatures  of  the  crown. 
He  tumbles  about  his  unwieldy  bulk ;  he  plays  and 
frolics  in  the  ocean  of  the  royal  bounty.  Huge  as 
he  is,  ,and  whilst  ^  he  lies  floating  many  a  rood'  he 
.is  still  a  creature.  His  ribs,  his  fins,  his  whalebone, 
his  blubber,  the  very  spiracles  through  w^ch  he 
spout9  a  torrent  of  brine  against  his  origin,  and 
covers  me  all  over  with  the  spray — every  thing  of 
him,  and  about  him,  is  from  the  crown.  Is  it 
for  him  to  question  the  dispensation  of  the  royal 
favou?*?" 

The  express  purpose  of  the  pamphlet  bdng  to 
justify  the  bounty  of  the  crown  towards  himself,  it 
became  necessary  to  advert  to  his  daims  and  services, 
which  he  does  by  running  a  parallel  between  them 


KIOHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURK£.  S41 

and  those  of  the  Duke's  ancestor,  who  had  pro6t0i 
so  largely  by  the  same  bounty.  If  the  retrospect  be 
deemed  harsh<  or  invidious,  it  .must  likewise  be  "ad- 
mitted there  was  no  inconsiderable  provocation.^— 

*'  I  have  supported  with  very  great  zeal,  and  I  am 
told  with  some  degree  of  success,  those  opinions,  or 
if  his  Grace  likes  another  expression  better,  those; 
old  prejudices  which  buoy  up  the  ponderous  mass  of 
his. nobility;  wealth,  and  titles.     I  have  omitted,  no* 
exertion  to  prevent  him  and  them  from  sinking  to* 
that  level,  to  which  the. meretricious  French  faction 
his  Orace  at  least  coquets  with,  omit  no  exertion  to 
reduce  both.     I  have  done  all  I  could  to  discounten- 
ance their  inquiries  into  the  fortunes  of  those  who. 
hold  large  portions  of  wealth  without  any  apiparent 
merit  of  their  own.     I  have  strained  every  nerve  to 
keep  the  Duke  of  Bedford  in  that  situation  which 
alone  makes  him  my  superior." 

**  Why  will  his  Grace,  by  attacking  me,  force  me 
reluctantly  to  compare  my  little  merit  wi<ii  that 
which  obtained  from  the  crown  those,  prodigies  'of 
profuse  donations  by  which  he  tramples  on  .the  me- 
diocrity of  humble  and  laborious  individuals  ? 
«         «         «         »         «         «         m 

*^  The  first  peer  of  the  name,  the  first  purchaser 
of  the  grants,  was  a  Mr.  Russel,  a  person  of  an  an- 
cient gentleman's  family  raised  by  being  a  minion  of 
Henry  the'  Eighth.  As  there  generally  is  some  re- 
semblance of  character  to  create  these  relations,  the 
favourite  was  in  all  likelihood  much  such  another,  as 
his  master.  The  first  of  those  immoderate  grants 
was  not   taken  from  the  ancient  demesne  of   the 


S42  LIFE   OF  THE 

ofomn,  but  from  tba  veemt  conAacation  of  the  aa- 
dent  ndiillty  ef  tbe  land.  The  Hon  having  sucked 
tile  Uood  of  hifi  prejr,  threw  the  offal  oarcase  to  the 
jackall  in  wmting.  Havii^  taated  once  the  food  of 
QBofiBcation,  the  fayourites  became  fierce  and  raven- 
one.  This  worthy  favourite's  first  grant  was  &om 
&e  lay  nobility.  The  second^  infiiiikely  improving 
upon  the  enonniiy  of  the  firsts  was  from  the  plunder 
of  the  church.  In  truth  his  Qraoe  is  somewhat 
excusable  for  his  dislike  to  a  grant  like  mine,  not 
only  in  ils  quantity,  but  in  its  kind  so  diffeirent  from 
his  own. 

^  Mine  was  from  a  mild  and  benevcdent  sovereign; 
his  from  Henry  the  Eighth. 

^  Mine  had  not  its  fund  in  the  murder  of  any  in- 
nocent person  of  illustrious  rank»  or  in  the  pillage 
of  any  body  of  unoffending  men.  His  grants  were 
from  the  aggregate  and  consolidated  funds  of  judg- 
ments iniquitously  legal,  and  from  possessions 
voluntarily  surrendered  by  the  lawful  proprietors 
with  tile  gibbet  at  their  door. 
.  **  The  merit  of  the  grantee  whom  he  derives  from, 
was.  that  of  being  a  prompt  and  greedy  instrument 
of  a  leeeUing  tjorant,  who  oppressed  aU  descriptiona 
of  his  people,  but  who  fell  with  particular  fiiry  on 
efwy  thing  that  was  great  and  noble. 

^  Mine  has  been,  in  endeavouring  to  screen  every 
man,  in  every  class,  from  oppression,  and  particu- 
kuiy  in  defending  the  high  and  eminent,  who  in  the 
bad  times  of  confiscating  princes,  confiscatii^  diief 
govoi^nors,  or  confiscating  demagogues,  are  the  most 
exposed  to  jealousy,  avarice,  and  envy. 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  S4S 

^  Tlie  merit  of  the  original  grantee  of  his  Grace's 
|Kmsioii85  was  in  giving  his  hand  to  the  work,  and 
partaking  the  spoil  with  a  prince,  who  plundered 
a  part  of  the  national  diureh  of  his  time  and 
country. 

**  Mine  was  in  defending  the  whole  oi  the  national 
church  of  my  own  time  and  my  own  country,  aod 
the  whole  of  the  national  churches  of  all  countries, 
from  the  principles  and  the  examples  which  lead  to 
ecclesiastical  pillage,  thence  to  a  contempt  of  all 
prescriptive  titles,  thence  to  the  pillage  of  all  pro* 
perty,  and  thence  to  universal  desolation. 

**  The  merit  of  the  origin  of  his  Grace's  fortune 
was  in  being  a  favourite  and  chief  adviser  to  a 
pfmce,  who  left  no  liberty  to  their  native  country. 

'<  My  endeavour  was  to  obtain  liberty  for  the 
municipal  country  in  which  I  was  born,  and  for  all 
descriptions  and  denominations  in  it.  Mine  was  to 
support  with  unrelaxing  vigilance  every  right,  every 
privily,  every  franchise,  in  this  my  adopted,  my 
dearer,  and  more  comprehensive  country.;,  and  not 
only  to  preserve  those  rights  in  this  chief  seat  of 
empire,  but  in  every  nation,  in  every  land,  in  every 
climate,  language,  and  religion,  in  the  vast  domain 
that  is  still  under  the  protection,  and  the  larger 
that  was  once  under  the  protection  of  the  British 
Crown. 

*'  His  founder's  merits  were,  by  arts  in  which 
he  served  his  master  and  made  his  fortune,  to 
bring  poverty,  wretchedness,  and  depopulation  on 
his  country. 

*'  Mine  Were  under  a  benevolent  priAce,  in  pro- 


S44  LIF£   OF   TH£ 

mating  the  oomnerce,  manu^Ktures,  and  agricultiire 
of  his  kingdotn ;  in  wMch  his  Majestjr  shows  an 
eminent  ezaninle.  who  even  in  his  amusements  is  a 
patriot,'  and'  in  hours  of  leisure  an  improvec  of  his 
native  soil. 

^  His  foimder's  merit,  was  the  merit  of  a  gentle* 
man  raised  by  the  arts  of  a  Court,  and  the  protection 
of  a  Wolsey,  to  the  eminence  of  a  great  and  potent 
lord.  His  merit  in  that  eminence  was  by  instigating 
a  tyrant  to  injustice,  to  provoke  a  people  to  re- 
bellion. : 

**  My  merit  was,  to  awaken. the  sober  piart  of  the 
country,  that  they  might  put  themselves  on  their 
guard. agaiiist  any  one  potent  lord,. or  any  gi^ter 
numb^.of  potisnt*  lords,  or  any  combinatidn.of  grtet 
leading  mai  of  any  sdart,  if  even  they  should  attempt 
to  proceed' in  the  same  courses/ but  in.  this  reverse 
order,  that  is,  by  instigating  a  corrupted  populace 
to  rebellion,  and  through  that  rebellion,  introducing 
a  tyranny  yet  worse  tha^  the  tjrranny  which  his 
Grace's  ancestor  supported,  and  of  which  he  profited 
in  the  manner  we  behold  in  the  despotism  of  Henry 

theBightt.  ^ 

**  The  pditical  merit  of  the  first  pensioner  of  liig 
Grace's  house,-  was  that  of  being  concticned'  as  a 
counsellor  of  state  in  advising,  and  in  his  petison 
executing  the  conditions  of  a  dishonourable  peade 
with  France  ;  the  surrendermg  the  fortress  •  of 
Boulogne,  then  our  out-guard  on  the  Continent. 
By  that  surrender,  Calais,  the  key  of  France,  and 
the  bridle  in  the  mouth  of  that  power,  was,  not 
many  years  afterwards,  finally  lost. 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUKB  BXIRKE.  S4£ 

**  M7  merit  has  been  in  resiidting  the  power  and 
pride  of  France,  under  any  form  of  its  rule ;  but  in 
opposing  it  with  the  greatest  zeal  and  earnestness, 
when  that  rule  appeared  in  the  worst  form  it  could 
assume ;  the  worst  indeed  which  the  prime  cause  and 
principle  of  all  evil  could' possibly  give  it.  It  was 
my  endeavour  by  every  m'eiuis  to  excite  a  spirit  in 
the  house,  where  I  had  the  honour  of  a  seat,  for 
carrying  on  with  early  vigour  and  decision,  the  most 
clearly  just  and  necessary  war,  that  this  or  any 
nation  ever  carried  on ;  in  order  to  save  my  coimtry 
from  the  iron  yoke  of  its  poVer,  and  from  the  more 
dreadful  contagion  of  its  principles ;  to  preserve, 
while  they,  can  be  ptreserved,  pure  and  untainted,  the 
ancient,  inbred  integrity,  piety,  good  nature,  and 
good  humour  of  the'  people  of  England  from  the 
dreadful '  pestilence  which,  beginning  in  France, 
threatens  to  lay  waste  the  whole  moral,  and'  in  a 
great  dqpree  the  whole  physical  world,  having  done 
both  in  the  focifis  of  its  most  intense  malignity. 

^  The  labour  of  his  Grace's  foimder,  merited  the 
eurseis,  not  loud  but  deep,  of  the  Commons  of  Eng^ 
land,  on  whom  he  and  his  master  had  effected  a 
complete  ParUamentary  Befcrm^  by  making  them 
in  their  slavery  and  humiliation,  the  true  and  ade- 
quate representatives  of  a  debased,  degraded,  and 
undone  people. 

*<  My  merits  were,  in  having  hod  an  active ^  though 
not  cJmays  an  ostentatious  share,  in  every  one  actf 
without  eaiception,  of  undispiUed  constitutional  uH' 
lity  in  my  time,  and  in  haVing  supported  on  all 
occasions,  the  authority,  the  efficiency,  and  the  pri- 


846  LIFE  OF  TH£ 

TikgcB  of  the  Commons  of  Qreat  BritaiiL  I  ended 
my  aerviceB  hy  a  recorded  and  fully  reasoned  asser-' 
taon  on  their  own  journals  of  their  constitutional 
fights,  and  a  yindieation  of  their  constitutional  con- 
duct. I  laboured  in  all  things  to  merit  their  inward 
aj^^bation,  and  (along  with  the  assistance  of  the 
largest,  the  greatest,  and  best  of  my  endeavours),  I 
Beeeived  their  free,  unbiassed^  public,  and  solemn 
tihanks. 

«  Thus  stands  the  account  of  the  comparative 
merits  of  the  crown  grants  which  compose  the  Duke 
of  Bedford's  fortune  as  balanced  against  mine.  In 
the  name  of  common  sense,  why  should  the  Duke  of 
Bedford  think,  that  none  but  of  the  house  of  Russd 
are  entitled  to  the  favour  of  the  crown  ?  Why  should 
he  imagine  that  no  king  of  England  has  been  capable 
of  judging  of  merit  but  King  Henry  the  Eighth  ?  " 

The  collective  character  of  the  mad  and  mistaken 
philosophers  who  accomplished  the  overthrow  of 
the  French  monarchy,  is  drawn  with  equal  fotee  and 
precision. 

^  In  the  French  Revolution  every  thing  is  new ; 
and  from  want  of  preparation  to  meet  so  unlooked- 
for  an  evil  every  thing  is  dangerous.  Never  before 
this  time  was  a  set  of  literary  men  converted  into  a 
gang  of  robbers  and  assassins.  Never  before  did  a 
den  of  bravoes  and  banditti  assume  the  garb  and 
tone  of  an  academy  of  philosophers.  Let  me  tell 
his  grace  that  an  union  of  such  character^,  mon- 
strous as  it  seems,  is  not  made  for  producing 
despicable  enemies.     *     *     ♦ 

**  I  assure  his  grace  that  if  I  state  to  him  the 


EIGHT  HO^.  &PMUKD  BURKE.  347 

designs  of  his  enemies,  in  a  Bftamifir  which  ivay 
appear  to  him  ludicrous  jox  impoaBible^  I  teU  him 
nothing  th«t  hias  not  oxaotly  happened  point  by 
points  but  twenty-&ur  miles  from  ow  own  shares* 
*  *  He  ia  made  for  Hiem  in  every  part  of  their 
double  character.  As  robbers,  to  them  he  is  nobto 
booty :  as  speculatists,  he  is  a  glorious  subject  for 
their  experimental  philosophy.  He  affords  matter 
for  an  extensive  analysis  in  all  the  branches  of  their 
science,  geometrical,  physical*  civil  imd  politicaL 

**  I  am  better  able  to  ent^  into  the  character  of 
this  description  of  men  than  the  noble  Duke  can  be. 
I  have  lived  long  and  variously  in  the  world.  With- 
out any  considerable  pretensions  to  literature  in 
myself,  I  have  aspired  to  the  love  of  letters.  I  have 
lived  fqr  a  great  many  years  in  habitudes  with  those 
who  professed  them.  I  can  form  a  tolerable  estimate 
of  what  is  likely  to  happen  from  a  character  chiefly 
dependant  for  fame  and  fortune  on  knowledge  and 
talent,  as  well  in  its  morbid  and  perverted  state,  as 
in  that  which  is  sound  and  natural.  Naturally,  men 
so  formed  and  finished  are  the  first  gifts  of  Provi- 
dence to  the  world.  But  when  they  have  once 
thrown  off  the  fear  of  God,  which  was  in  all  ages 
too  often  the  case,  and  the  fear  of  man,  which  i» 
now  the  ease,  and  when  in  that  state  they  come  to 
understand  one  another  and  to  act  in  corps,  a  more 
dreadful  calamity  cannot  arise  out  of  hell  to  scourge 
mankind.    *    *    *    ♦  . 

"  These  philosophers  consider  men  in  their  expe- 
riments, no  more  than  they  do  mice  in  an  air  pump 
or  in  a  recipient  of  mephitic  gas.  Whatever  his 
Grace  may  think  of  himself,  they  look  upcm  him» 


348  LIF£  OF  THE 

and  every  thing  that  belongs  to  him,  with  no  more 
regard  thanvthey  do  upon  the  whiskers  of  that 
little  long-tailed  animal,  that  has  been  long  the  game 
of  the  grave,  demure,  insidious,  spring-nailed,  'vdvet- 
pawed,  green-eyed  philosophers,  whether  going  upon 
two  legs  or  upon  four. 

**  His  Grace's  landed  possessions  are  irrteistibly 
inviting  to  an  agrarian  experiment.  They  are  a 
downright  insult  upon  the  rights  of  man.  They- 
are  more  extensive  than  the  territory  of  many  of 
the  Grecian  repuUics ;  and  they  are  without  com- 
parison more  fertile  than  most  of  tbetn.  There  are 
now  republics  in  Italy,  in  Germany,  and  in  Switzer- 
land, which  do  not  possess  any  thing  like  so  fair  and 
ample  a  domain.  There  is  a  scope  for  seven  phi- 
losophers to  proceed  in  their  analytical  experiments, 
upon  Harrington's  seven  different  forms  of  repub- 
lics, in  the  acres  of  this  one  Duke. 

*<  Hitherto  they  have  been  wholly  unproductive  to 
speculation ;  fitted  for  nothing  but  to  fatten  bullocks 
and  to  produce  grain  for  beer,  still  more  to  stupify 
the  dull  English  understanding.  Abbe  Sicyes  how-' 
ever  has  whole  nests  of  pigeon-holes  full  of  con- 
stitutions, ready  made,  ticketed,  sorted,  and  num- 
bered ;  suited  to  ev«y  season'  and  every  fancy ; 
some  with  the  top  of  the  pattern  at  the  bottom,  and 
some  with  the  bottom  at  the  top  ;  some  plain,  some 
flowered ;  some  distinguished  for  their  simplicity ; 
others  for  their  complexity ;  some  of  blood  colour ; 
some  of  houe  de  Paris;  some  with  directories, 
others  without  a  direction ;  some  with  councils  oi 
elders  and  councils  of  youngsters;  some  without 
any  council  at  all.  ,  Some  where  the  electors  choose 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  349 

the  representatives ;  others  where  the  representa- 
tives choose  the  electors.  Some  in  long  coats  and 
some  in  short  cloaks  ;  some  with  pantaloons  ;  some 
without  breeches.  Some  with  five  shilling  qualifica- 
tions ;  some  totally  unqualified.  .  So  that  no  con- 
stitution-fancier may  go  unsuited  from  his  shop, 
^provided  he  loves  a  pattern  of  pillage,  oppression, 
arbitrary  imprisonment,  confiscation,  exilb,  revolu- 
tionary judgment,  and  legalized  premeditated  mur- 
der, in  any  shapes  into  which  they  can  be  put. 
What  a  pity  it  is  that  the  progress  of  experimental 
philosophy  should  be  checked  by  his  Grace's  mono- 
poly !    *    *    *    . 

*'  Is  it  not  a  singular  phenomenon  that  whilst  the 
sans-ciilottes  carcase  butchers,  and  the  philosophers 
of  the  shambles,  are  pricking  their  dotted  lines  upon 
his  (the  Duke's)  hide,  and  like  the  print  of  the  poor 
ox  that  we  see  at  the  shop  windows  at  Charing  Cross, 
alive  as  he  is,  and  thinking  no  harm  in  the  world, 
he  is  divided  into  rumps,  and  sirloins,  and  briskets, 
and  into  all  sorts  of  pieces  for  roasting,  boiling,  and 
stewing,  that  all  the  time  they  are  measuring  Am, 
his  Grace,  is  measuring  me ;  ia  invidiously  comparing 
•the'  bounty  of  the  crown  with  the  deserts  of  the 
defender  of  his  order,  and  in  the  same  moment 
fawning  on  those  who  have  the  knife  half  out  of  the 
sheath — ^poor  innocent, 

*  Pleafl'd  to  the  last/he  crops  the  flowery  food^ 
And  licks  the  hand  just  xais'd  to  shed  his  hiood.'** 

Report  asserts  that  the  account  given  in  this  work 
of  the  origin  of  the  Russel  possessions  is  erroneous, 
though  it  has  been  said  that  the  information  was 


S50  LIFS   OF   THE 

suppled  from  the  libraiy  of  his  kte  Majesty  aft 
Buckinghain  House ;  be  this  as  it  may,  no  formal 
contradiction  of  the  dtatement  was  made,  and  Mr. 
Biuke  is  not  likely  to  have  risked  mete  conjecture 
where  confutation  was  so  easy.  It  was  on  his  pert 
nrther  a  violent,  but  not  an  unfair  retaliation ;  for 
against  an  invading  and  wanton  enemy  all  arms  may 
be  «sed,  and  he  must  be  a  poor  soldier  who  diooses 
the  weaker  in  preference  to  the  stronger  weapon. 
Ther^;ret  perhaps  ia^  that  he  wielded  his  advantage 
rat^  imprudently  than  unjustly,  by  ftimishing 
hints  to  the  Agrarians  or  Jacobins  of  a  fiiture  day, 
who  may  be  inclined  to  make  experiments  in  paro^ 
ling  out  those  extensive  and  flourishing  domains 
which  he  calls  the  ''  low,  tat,  Bedford  level." 

His  other  assailant  on  this  occasion,  the  Earl  of 
Lauderdale,  still,  to  the  delight  of  his  friends,  adtxna 
that  house  of  which  he  has  long  been  so  distinguished 
a  member.  Doubtless  he  has  regretted  the  moment- 
ary  iigustice  done  to  an  old  acquaintance  and  political 
leader  with  the  same  sincerity  *  ai  he  is  also  said 
to  have  read  his  recantation  from  the  then  prevailing 
partialities  toward  the  French  system  of  freedom  of 
179S»  and  to  that  other  stock  subject  for  patriotic 
oratory,  Parliamentary  Reform.    While  so  many 

*  From  many  complimentary  effiisions  of  his  Lordship  to  Mr. 
Burke,  the  following  handsome  one,  applied  to  his  Reform  BUI  in 
1781,  is  selaotod'-"  He  (Mr.  Burke)  was  the  only  man  in  the 
ooiintry  wbiM  p«weka  were  m^atl  to  tba  farming  and  aotompliah- 
ing  10  systematic  and  able  a  plan  of  reform ;  not  a  mean,  nanow, 
wretched  scheme  of  retrenchment,  breaking  in  upon  the  dignity 
of  the  crown,  and  the  honour  of  the  nation,  but  a  great  and 
beautiAil  arrftngement  of  office,  cdcmlated  not  to  degrade  a 
gorermneat,  tut  to  exalt  and  to  adorn  it" 


RIOHT  HONt  EDMUND  BURKE.  S51 

able  men  however  were  thus  misled  upon  such  sub* 
jects,  it  must  impress  us  still  more  with  a  conviction 
of  the  sagacity  of  their  great  opponent,  who  distin- 
guished at  a  glance,  what  it  cost  others  so  mudi 
teaching  and  lecturing,  and  mental  hammering  and 
annealing,  to  learn,  in  &e  school  of  political  mistake 
and  failure. 


852  LIFE  OF  THE 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Establuhment  of  the  Emigrant  Sdiool  at  Peim.-*Letten  to  W. 

H i  and  to  J.  Gahagan^  Esq. — Letters  on  a  R^dde 

Peace. — His  prophetic  Spirit  as  opposed  to  that  of  Mr.  Pitt — 
Report  oonceming  him. — Letter  to  Mrs.  Leadbeater. — Letter 
on  the  Affidrs  of  Ireland. — His  Illness  and  Death. 


It  shotild  have  been  mentioned  in  a  previous  page, 
that  in  the  year  1794,  Mr.  Burke,  commiserating 
the  destitute  condition  of  man^  of  the  emigrant  chil- 
dren whose  fSEtthers  had  perished  either  by  the  goillo- 
tine  or  the  sword  in  the  general  convulsion  of  their 
country,  and  of  others  whose  means  were  inadequate 
to  the  purposes  of  education,  applied  to  government 
forassistanceinordertoform  an  establishment  adapted 
to  supply  this  want,  which  he  volunteered  to  superin- 
tend. This  request  was  very  liberally  complied  with. 
The  house  appropriated  for  the  purpose  had  been  the 
residence  of  his  old  friend  General  Haviland,  which 
Mr.  Biurke,  in  the  year  1793,  induced  government  to 
lease  from  the  person  to  whom  it  had  been  sold  by 
the  devizees  of  the  General,  in  order  to  fit  it  up  for 
the  reception  of  several' of  the  unhappy  French  clergy 
who,  houseless  and  pennyless,  were  scattered  through 
the  country,  subsisting  on  charity.  From  some  un- 
expected difficulties  which  occurred,  this  humane 
design  at  the  moment  did  not  take  efiect.  The  house 
however  continued  in  possession  of  the  head  of  the 
barrack  establishment.  General  de  Lancey,  in  trust 
for  his  Majesty,  by  whom  it  was  now  given  up,  by 


RIGHT   HON«   EDMXrKD  BUBKE.  358 

otder  of  tlie  Lords  of  the  Treaguiy,  to  the  Duke  of 
Portland,  the  Maiquis  of  Budcingham,  the  Lord 
ChaaceUor,  Mr«  Windham,  Mr.  Burke,  Dr.  Walker 
iOng,  and  otheie,  as  trustees  for  the  xnanageiaent  of 
Ae  sdMMrf,  and  it  was  opened  immediately  after- 
vmxda.  The  Abb6  Maxuine  presided  over  this  es- 
tabKshment^  and  had  far  his  ooadjutiNr  the  kamed 
and  anuafole  Abb6  Cbevallier. 

Aa  antiquarian  correspondent,  i;trho  was  eoiasected 
with  this  institution  as  ti^easuiw,  aft^  the  death 
of  due  original  founder,  having  kindly  communicated 
to  the  «ul2ior  some  memoran^  concerning  it>  €key 
eannot  -perhaps  be  better  given  than  in  his  own 
words. 

^  Penn,  in  Buddnghauffihire,  a  bold  promontory, 
to  whidi  Mr.  Burke  frequently  resorted,  at  one  time 
w  the  firiend  of  General  Haviland,  and  latterly  as 
the  patnm  of  the  emignurt  scho^  there^  is  situated 
about  three  miles  north-west  of  Beaconsfield.  Many 
of  the  residents  are  distinguished  for  patriarchal  loty- 
gevity,  not  a  few  of  them  attaining  a  century  of  years. 
The  family  of  Grove  trace  an  uninterrupted  descent 
£rom  ike  eoniQuest  as  proprietors  of  the  same  estate. 
The  last  possessor,  Mr.  Edmund  Grove,  died  in  Jime 
18S8,  at  the  advanced  age  of  ninety^ur ;  and  being 
well  known  in  tiiis  part  of  the  countiy  as  a  fair 
representative  of  the  ancient  English  yeoman,  may 
be  worth  noticing.  When  young,  he  had  been  the 
play-^ow  of  the  late  Viscount  CurEon,  and  of  John 
BidEer  Hofaroyd,  who  died  Earl  ol  Sheffield,  and  was 
known  to  most  of  the  surrounding  nobility  and 
gentry  by  the  name  of  Yeoman  Orove-^'^  name  now 
^Ifeused^ft^  the  mme  assuming  appellation  of  Esquire, 

TOL.  11.  2  a 


S54  LIF£   OF   THE 

but  formerly  applied  to  thoee  who  farmed  their  own 
estates.  Yeoman  Grove  was  likewise  known  to  his 
late  Majesty,  who  permitted  him  an  unusual  freedom. 
Whenever  they  met  in  the  street  at  Windsor,  which 
was  not  unfirequent  on  market-day, '  he  would  grasp 
the  royal  hand  with  fervour,  and  in  a  way  peculiarly 
his  own,  inquire—^  How  does  your  Majesty  do  ?-r^ 
How  is  the  Queen  ?-r-How  are  all  the  children  ? ' 
which  commonly-  occasioned  the  Royal  Personage  a 
hearty  good-humoured  laugh. 

'*  Tyler's  Green  House,  the  residence  of  General 
Haviland,  was  formerly  the  property  and  residence  of 
the  Bakers,  ancestors  of  the  Earl  of  Sheflleld,  of 
Sheffield  Place,  county  of  Sussex.  It  is  now  no 
more ;  '  nought  could  reprieve  the  tottering  mansion 
from  its  fall.'  In  1822  it  was  sold  by  auction  in  loti^ 
of  course  pulled  down  and  carried  away,  so  that 
scarcely  a  vestige  now  remains  to  mark  the  spot  wherp 
senators  were  wont  to  converse,  and  wit,  whim,  and 
eloquence  to  flow  in  no  ordinary  current  amid  the 
.social  circle  formed  by  the  Burkes.  Previous  to  the 
demolition,  I  had  a  correct  drawing  made .  of  the 
front,  which  I  have  placed  among  my  illustrations 
of  the  county  of  Bucks. 

**  To  those  who  are  acquainted  with  the  country, 
the  guides  to  the  site  of  the  mansion  are  two  of  the 
largest  and  most  lofty  fir-trees  in  the  kingdom.  The 
Greneral  was  accustomed  to  call  them  his  two  grena- 
diars ;  one  was  more  lofty  than  the  other,  an  unlucky 
monkey  kept  by  Mrs.  Haviland  having  a3cend^d  to 
the  summit  of  the  other,  and  cropped  the  leading 
branch.  These  trees  may  be  distinctly  seen  from 
the  terrace  at  Windsor — ^from  Harrow-on-the-Hill 


AIOHT   HONI  EDMTTXD  BURK£.  855 

—from  St.  Paul's  Church— and  from  the  rising 
ground  near  Reading :  in  the  woody  nielghbouriiood 
of  Penn  they  occasionally  serve  as  a  guide  to  bewil- 
dered pedestrians.  I  saved  them  from  the  levelling 
axe  in  1798/  by  my  representation  of  their  utility, 
and  I  am  assured  that  the  present  noble  proprietor, 
Richard  Earl  Howe,  will  not  suffer  so  grand  a  fea- 
ture on  his  extensive  domains  in  Buckinghamshire 
to  be  destroyed. 

"  However  incredible  it  may  appear,  it  is  vouched 
for  as  a  fSact  by  persons  of  respectability  in  the 
neighbourhood,  that  the  cannonading  at  the  reduce 
tion  of  Valenciennes  in  1793  was  distinctly  heard 
by  the  inhabitants  of  Penn.  This  no  doubt  will  be 
laughed  at  by  many  as  utterly  beyond  belief,  but 
there  are  many  authentic  instances  on  record  of  the 
distance  to  which  sound  occasionally  travels,  depend- 
ing no  doubt  on  a  peculiar  state  of  the  atmosphere 
at  the  time :  it  is  understood,  beyond  question,  that 
the  cannonading  on  that  occasion  was  heard  at  Do- 
ver. During  Ae  late  war,  the  firing  of  cannon  when 
ships  were  engaged  at  sea  during  the  night  has  like- 
wise been  distinguished  at  Penn ;  the  time  has  been 
frequently  noted,  and  the  fact  shortly  afterward 
ascertained  from  the  pubHc  papers. 

**  In  April,  1796,*  the  emigrant  school  was  open- 
ed, and  Mr.  Burke,  for  the  remainder  of  his  life, 
watched  over  it  with  the  solicitude,  not  merely  of  a 

*  Tbu  must  be  an  error  of  my  oonespandeat  The  school  at 
leaat  eiisted  previous  to  this  time>  but  may  have  been  removed  at 
the  time  stated  to  the  house  in  question,  as  in  another  communi- 
cation he  says  he  delivered  up  possession,  on  the  part  of  govern- 
ment, lo  Mr.  Burke,  March  SO,  1796. 

2  A  2 


S56  LIFE  OF   THE 

friend,  but  of  a  father.  His  smiles  might  be  said 
to  have  gladdened  the  hearts  of  the  exiles ;  I  have 
witnessed  many  interesting  scenes  there  of  that  mt- 
ture; — they  were  doomed,  alas!. too  soon  to  lose 
their  kind  protector.  At  the  annual  distribution  qf 
prizes,  the  senior  scholar  delivered  a  Latin  oratiott 
in  the  presenoe  of  a  large  assembly  of  nobility  and 
gentry  in  the  great  hall,  in  which  Mr.  Burke  was 
always  alluded  to  as  their  parent  and  friend. 

<<  Mr.  Burke  assigned  to  these  youths  a  blue  uni- 
form, wearing  in  their  hats  a  white  cockade  inscribed 
*  Vive  le  Roi ; '  those  who  had  lost  their  fathers  had 
it  placed  on  a  bloody  label,  those  who  had  lost  uncles 
on  a  black  one.  The  Marquis  of  Buckingham  made 
them  a  present  of  a  small  brass  cannon,  and  a  pair 
of  colours,  which  were  displayed  on  public  days,  and 
seemed  a  source  of  no  little  pride  and  gratification 
to  those  future  defenders  of  loyalty. 

<^  After  the  death  of  Mr.  Burke  I  was  appointed 
treasurer,  and  received  from  the  Lords  of  the  Trea^ 
sury  fifty  pounds  per  month  for  the  support  of.  the 
establishment.  Upon  the  restoration  of  legitimate 
monarchy  in  France  in  1814,  the  money  was  remitted 
to  me  thence,  imtil  the  dissolution  of  the  institutieH 
on  the  1st  of  August,  18£0,  when  on  the  departuro 
of  the  superior  and  the  pupils,  the  colours  were  pre- 
sented tome  as  a  token  of  remembrance,  and  Ixetaia 
them  with  much  satisfaction,  from  the  intercsting 
associations  they  recal  to  mind. 

^  Many  of  the  youths  educated  in  this  coU^e  so 
humanely  founded  through  the  influence  and  under 
the  auspices  of  Mr.  Burke,  at  present  occupy  im- 
portant stations  in  various  parts  of  the  dominions 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  357 

of  die  King  of  France^  and  for  their  aucoess  in  fife 
they  on^it  ever  to  fq;iard  with  flentmients  of  gmti*- 
tiide  and  veneration  the  memory  of  that  great  and 
good  man." 

The  snperintendance  of  this  school  became  a 
SQfiiree  of  occupation  and  amnsement,  cakulated  to 
divert  an  occasional  gloom  that  darkened  his  mind, 
and  as  a  relaxation  from  the  weight  of  heavier  la^* 
boors.  The  interest  which  be  took  in  its  success  and 
ccmtiauanoe  may  be  judged  by  the  earnest  manner  in 
which  he  bequeaths  it  in  his  will  to  the  protection 
and  favour  of  the  noble  persons  joined  with  him  in 
the  trusty  while  the  wish  is  expressed  that  it  may  be 
jdaced  under  the  immediate  care  of  Dr.  Walker 
King  and  Dr.  Lawrence ;  conceiving  perhaps  that,  as 
being  his  personal  fidends,  and  from  their  greater 
acquaintance  with  such  matters,  those  gentlemen 
would  take  more  interest  than  strangers  could  be 
supposed  to  dO|  in  giving  stability  to  an  institution 
to  which  he  had  given  existence. 

Instances  of  his  personal  kindness  and  attention 
towards  the  members  oi  the  establishment  and  their 
friends^  were  shown  in  a  variety  of  little  wa3n9|  more 
particularly  in  presents  from  his  larder  of  any  deli* 
cacy  which  it  did  not  so  much  lie  in  their  way  to 
procure.  This  very  often  occasioned  an  ftmnaiiig 
scene  to  the  friends  of  the  family,  between  him  and 
his  housekeeper,  Mrs.  Webster.  She,  it  seems,  had 
more  regard  for  the  credit  of  her  master's  table  than 
for  the  appetites  of  the  emigrants,  and  whenever 
there  was  any  thing  nice  in  the  larder,  such  as  a 
haunch  of  venison,  or  game  intended  for  the  second 
course,  she  was  obliged  to  keep  watch  over  the  dainty. 


S58  LIFE   OF  THE 

lest  it  should  be  slily  dispatched  off  to  the  *'  French 
people  "  by  her  improvidmt  master,  and  her  skill  and 
management  in  conducting  the  repast  be  thus  called 
in  question  by  his  visitors.  Sometimes  however  he 
contrived  to  elude  her  vigilance,  and  sometimes  he 
was  caught  and  disappointed.  In  attempting  one 
day  to  send  off  a  present  of  venison  intended  to  be 
dressed  for  company,  the  wary  housekeeper,  who 
was  upon  the  alert,  darted  upon  him  as  upon  a  thief 
caught  in  the  fact—''  Sir,  Sir,"  she  cried  out,  fasten- 
ing upon  the  article  in  question — *'  I  cannot  pert 
with  my  haunch — I  cannot  indeed — ^I  shall  be  ruined 
if  I  lose  my  haunch—we  shall  have  nothing  else  fit 
to  dress  for  dinner."  **  But  my  dear  Mrs.  Web- 
ster, pray  consider  these  poor  people^—"  ''  I  can 
consider  nothing,  Sir,  but  that  we  shall  have  na 
second  course-^-give  it  away  to  French  people  in- 
deed ! "  ''  But  these  poor  people  have  been  accus- 
tomed to  such  things  in  their  own  country,  and  for 
one  day  I  think  we  can  do  without  them."  *'  Bless 
me.  Sir,  remember  there  are  Lord  and  Lady  ■ 

and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  '• —  coming  to  dinner,  and 

without  something  of  this  kind  I  shall  get  into 
shocking  disgrace-— No,  no.  Sir,  I  cannot  part  with 
my  haunch  ; " — and  adhering  rigidly  to  this  deter- 
mination her  master  was  at  length  obliged  to  retreat^ 
foiled  in  his  object. 

The  Abb6  Maraine,  the  superior  of  the  school, 
who  was  a  good  natured  man,  and  had  little  idea  of 
English  school  discipline,  was  complaining  one  day 
of  the  indocility  of  some  of  his  pupils,  when  Mr. 
Burke  told  him  he  must  exert  his  cane  with  more 
vigour,  and  if  that  would  not  do,  he  must  flog — and 


RIGHT   HON.   £DMUND   BURKE.  359 

flog  soundly.  The  Abb£  appeared  somewhat  shocked 
at  the  idea  of  this  punishment.  **  Do  not  fear  its 
success,"  replied  Mr.  Burke,  **  it  is  our  chief  receipt 
in  England  for  turning  out  eminent  men — ^it  seldom 
fails — good  scholars,  nay  good  poets  are  made  by 
the  rod-— and  why  not  good  soldiei^  ?  "  The  superior 
ultimately  adopted  the  recipe,  and  after  a  time  com- 
fessed  (in  his  own  words)  **  that  he  believed  Mon-  * 
sieiu*  Burke  was  as  right  in  that  point  as  he  had 
been  in  so  many  others.*^ 

.  His  little  personal  communication  with  most  of 
the  Ministry  about  this  period,  appears  evident  from 

the  following  letter  written  to  William  H , 

Esq.,  afterwards  of  Hanwell  Park,  Middlesex,  who 
had  applied  for  his  interest  in  the  India  House, 
a  place  where,  above  all  others,  it  was  least  likely, 
for  obvious  reasons,  to  have  effect. 

•*  My  dear  Sir, 
'^You  have  always  had  my  opinion  and  good 
wishes ;  and  your  conduct  has  been  such,  that  I  am 
sure  in  serving  your  interest,  I  should  do  good  ser- 
vice to  the  public.  But  why  you  *^  formed  any  of 
your  hopes  on  the  support  which  you  may  derive 
from  that  influence  which  /  alone  can  give  to  your 
application '  is  to  me  quite  inconceivable.  If  I  did 
not  know  your  kind  partiality  towards  me,  I  should 
think  you  laughed  at  me.  I  to  have  influence  in  the 
India  House  or  the  Board  of  Control !  I  to  have 
influence  to  protect  any  of  those  whom  Hastings  is 
resolved  to  ruin !  Surely  you  know  that  I  coidd 
not  name  a  cadet  to  go  to  India.  I  could  not  raise 
or  kick  down  an  Indian  ant-hill ;  much  less  remove 


360  LIFE  OF  TH£ 

tke  inountaiaB  tbat  HaBtioga  he^e   oa  those  be 
means  to  erusk 

**  If  you  uHagine  that  I  have  any  inftiene^witk  Mr. 
— ^ — ^  (what  you  call  the  Board  of  Control  ia  bub 
a  nane)  in  India  qffair^^  you  are  saiatdu&y  m  apUm 
of  the  ezperianoe  you  have  had  of  the  iuatility  of 
my  endeayours  to  prevent  .  ■  ^  and  all  iniqiiifcjF 
in  hhn,  from  being  sent  to  India.  Beaidea^  I  sddoBX 
see  one  of  the  Ministers.  Mr.  Pitt  not  for  more 
than  a  twelvemonth.  The  Duke  of  Portland  not  £» 
several  months.  Mr.  Duadas  but  oiioe  on  a  parti- 
cular affair  as  remote  as  pole  from  pele  fram  Ind&i 
and  its  concerns.  The  Chaacdler  onoe  or  twice 
only,  and  I  know  that  in  ihese  thii^  he  will  not 
interfere.  lu  my  ojpinion  nothing  could  possiUy  be 
more  fatal  to  you  than  the  smaUest  use  of  my  name 
in  any  matter  relating  to  Bengal. 

*<  The  truth  is,  that  Mr.  Dundas,  I  have  some 
reason  to  believe,  has  a  good  will  towards  me ;  and 
would  not  persecute  any  pers<m  on  my  account^ — 
but  I  know,  and  you  know  too^  that  your  busiaeBa 
is  invoLved  in  twenty  (or  bawly,  the  exact  wwd 
cannot  be  made  out  frtwi  the  origkud  which  now 
Ilea  before  me)  difficulties,  which  those  who  hate 
your  cause  in  the  direction  could  aaaike  use  of  te 
frustrate  your  espectationa ;  and  I  know  te  a  cex^ 
tainty  that  he  would  not  enter  into  a  ooi^iet  witih 
them  on  my  account,  nor  struggle  with  these  embaiv 
rasments  which  in  a  case  of  a  warm  private  friend 
he  would  exert  himself  to  surmount. 

<'  The  only  man  in  office  I  habitually  see  is  Mr. 
Windham ;  who  has  been  here  sevnal  times  since 


EIGHT  HOK.  EDMUND  BURK£.  361 

my  cabmity.  He  was  hoe,  and  jwt  gtuag  off, 
whea  I  received  yowr  letter;  I  had  just  time  to 
apeak  to  him  oa  the  busineaa.  I  reeommended  yoit 
to  him  as  strongly  as  I  could;  butfaeean  danoilhing. 
HoweTw  you  have  his  leave  to  call  upon  him — and 
I  am  sure  he  will  serve  you  if  he  can ;  of  whiek 
however,  as  I  have  told  you,  I  have  mudt  doubt. 
But  use  the  hest  means  you  have.  You  think  I  eaa 
do  much  with  A  » which  is  mose  than  I  think 

myself-"--!  will  write  to  him  with  pleasure.  I  most 
sincerely  wish  you  all  good,  and  am  with  great 
regard  and  esteem, 

"  My  dear  Sir, 

^  Your  most  faithful  and 

^  Obedient  humble  servant, 
«  Jfl&  ft^  1796.  "  EDjtfUND  Burke.** 

The  following  is  in  a  different  strain ;  but  it  more 
particularly  explains  the  cause  of  the  sedusion  in 
which  he  lived,  as  mentioned  in  the  preceding,  which 
it  thus  appears  was  a  grief  that  nothing  could  over- 
come. It  is  addressed  to  Mr.  Gahagan,  the  father 
of  the  present  Baroness  de  Montesquieu. 

'<  My  dkab  Sir, 
^*  You  have  been  very  good  and  charitable  in 
wishing  to  visit  this  infirmary,  where  my  wife,  my 
-goGT  old  friend  WilL  Burke,  and  mjrseli^  are^  all 
lame;  Mrs.  Burke  with  the  very  same  lameness 
which  took  her  some  years  ago,  without  effect,  to 
Margate,  where  we  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you* 
The  sight  of  such  a  sympathising  friend  is  a  comfort 
to  those  who  are  no  loilger  in  society.     Since  my 


362  LIFE   OF  THE 

calamity  *  I  have  not  dined  out  of  my  own  house ; 
nor  am  I  fond  of  receiving  any  new  acquaintance; 
my  business  and  my  pleasure  in  this  life  being  both 
of  them  completely  over. 

**  When  I  mentioned  Mons.  de  Montesquieu^  it 
was  not  as  a  man  I  wished  to  see  on  account  of  his 
own  distinguished  merit,  or  the  fame  of  his  family, 
which  the  world  is  so  full  of,  and  to  whose  labours 
the  world  owes,  so  much :-— it  is  as  part  of  an  old 
friend  that  I  who  refuse  all  new  acquaintance  took 
the  liberty  of  desiring  him  to  accompany  you.  Our 
house  has  very  little  lodging-room,  and  it  is  all  we 
could  do  to  lodge  you  two.  Our  settled  faifnily  takes 
up  four  beds,  and  my  old  friend  Dr.  Walker  King, 
whom  I  have  not  seen  for  a  good  while,  and  whom 
I  am  not  likely  to  see  for  this  year  again,  we  expect 
here,  with  his  wife  and  child.  We  have  not  a  bed 
£Dr  a  third  person ; — so  that  I  must  deny  myself 
for  the  present  (and  it  is  a  real  self-denial)  the  so- 
ciety of  the  worthy  and  most  respectable  gentleman 
you  proposed  to  accompany  yourself  and  your  son 
the  Baron. 

**  Alas !  my  dear  friend,  I  am  not  what  I  was 
two  years  ago.— -Society  is  too  much  for  my  nerves. 
I  sleep  ill  at  night ;  and  am  drowsy  and  sleep  much 
in  the  day. — Every  exertion  of  spirits  which  I  make 
for  the  society  I  cannot  refuse,  costs  me  much,  and 
leaves  me  doubly  heavy  and  dejected  after  it.  Such 
is  the  person  you  come  to  see ;  or  rather  the  wreck 
of  what  was  never  a  very  first-rated  vessel.— 4Such  as 
I  am,  I  feel  infinitely  for  the  kindness  of  those  old 

*  The  death  of  hb  son. 


RIOHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  363 

friends  who  remember  me  with  compafision.  Ab  to 
new,  I  never  see  one  but  sudi  Fr&oicti  as  come  to* 
visit  the  school,  which  supplies  to  me  the  void  in  my 
own  family,  and  it  is  my  only  comfort.  For  the 
sake  of  that  I  still  submit  to  see  some  who  are  still 
more  miserable  than  I  am. 

'*  Adieu,    my  dear  sir,    until   Monday.      Mrs. 
Burke  and  my  niece  salute  you  cordially. 

"  Ever  yours, 

«  June  22,  1796.  "  EDMUND  BURKE." 

This  letter  furnishes  a  striking  picture  of  a  great 
mind  reduced  by  the  influence  of  sorrow  to  a  state- 
of  the  most  painful  despondency.     Yet  it  must  serve  - 
to  give  us  a  higher  impression  of  the  original  and 
even  still  untamed  vigour  of  that  mind,  to  find  him  at^ 
this  moment  detaching  it  from  all  these  melancholy  ^ 
yet  unavoidable  contemplations  to  renewed  exertions 
with  his  pen  now  almost  pronounced  to  be  irresisti- 
ble, for  Ihe  patriotic  purpose  of  dissipating  a  gather^', 
ing  gloom  over  the  public  mind,  nearly  as  heavy  aS' 
that  which  overshadowed  his  own. 

The  misfortunes  of  the  war,  and  the  triumphant 
career  of  the  republican  arms,  unchecked  by  any 
reverse  on  the  continent  of  Europe,  had  occasioned' 
a  momentary  revulsion  of  public  feeling,  not  uncom- 
mon in  England.  From  warm  antidpaticms  of  suc- 
cess, fears  still  stronger  began  to  be  entertained  of 
the  final  result  of  the  struggle.  Several  friends  of 
the  ministry,  if  not  some  of  the  ministry  themselves, 
were  among  the  victims  of  these  fears;  and  Lord' 
Auckland's  pamphlet,  already  alluded  to,  became  a 
kind  of  ground-work  to  the  superstructure  of  appre- 


364  UPB  CMP  THE 

hfindons  raised  by  this  timid  older  of  pelitidaoit  and 
by  thofle  wholiad  from  tbe  first  on^osed  the  conteet 
with  Fnmoe.  A  cry  for  peace  was  thcopefora  pretty 
generaUy  diffiwed,  Mr.  Pitt,  either  really  affected 
by  it,  or  wiUii^  to  chime  in  with  the  humoor  of  ik» 
day,  acquiesced,  by  openiag  negodiatioiis  through 
two  or  ihcee  differoit  chamiels,  with  the  agents  of 
the  Republic  who  reodiyed  our  advances  as  any  oae 
acquainted  with  the  revolutionary  character  must 
have  known  and  expected,  with  no  little  insolence. 
Indignation,  however,  was  not  immediately  roused. 
We  sustained  a  rebuff  or  two  paticoitly.  In  this  situ- 
ation, Mr.  Burke,  feding  for  the  natioDal  dignity, 
and  determined  to  peisuade  or  to  shame  it  out  of 
its  fearsi^  produced  towairds  ihe  end  of  the  summer^ 
in  two  liters,  addressed  to  a  Member  of  the  Heuae 
of  GommoBs,  **  Tktm^kbt  an  a  Begicide  Pemce/* 

TbiA  is  another  of  those  marvellous  productions, 
which,  combining  strong  and  various  powers  of 
argumentation,  with  great  eh)quence  and  rhetorical 
ddllf  conveyed  with  little  or  no  meretricious  oma^ 
ment  to  the  understanding,  occasioned  a  host  ei  r»« 
plies,  but  scarcely  any  tlung  which  can  be  dignified 
with  the  name  of  answ^.  The  best  perhaps  is  in  <Hie 
<ff  the  critical  journals  of  the  digr;*  itissaidtohave 
been  written  by  an  eminent  literary  character,  now  a 
most  distii^guishiRd  member  oi  the  House  of  Com^ 
mona.  On  theqiueation  at  issue,  their  opinions  were 
uttedy  at  varimce.  But  as  genius  can  seldcnn  be 
inseasiUe  to  genius^  however  q[>poBite  their  political 
speculations,  this  writer  characterises  the  work  of 
his  great  opponent  in  the  following  tenns  >^ 

*  Monthly  Review. 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  866 

^  Sudi  is  die  cmtiine  of  this  pnUicatioii ;  of  whidi 
if  it  be  eonsidered  meiAy  w  a  work  of  literatonit 
might  be  sufficient  to  say » that  it  is  scarcely  surpassed 
in  excellence  by  any  of  the  happatt  pnAuttkam  of 
die  best  days  of  its  author.  TbB  aaae  Tastneath 
and  comprehension  of  ideir-^be  same  xmboiuided 
variety  of  allnsios,  ilfanttatioEn,  and  omameoty  dravn 
from  every  provinos  of  nature  and  of  sripami » 
the  same  nnrivelled  mastery  over  langinge«^Mtfae 
same  versatility  of  imagination  irhkh  at  viJl  teana- 
forms  itself  from  sublime  and  terrific  geaius  into 
gay  and  playAd  fancy— «die  same  happy  power  of 
relieving  the  harshness  of  political  dispute  by  bomti- 
ful  effusioiis  of  sentiment,  and  of  dignifying  composi- 
tion by  grave  and  lofty  maxim  of  moral  asd  civil 
wisdom — ^the  same  inexhaustible  ingemnly  in  pte- 
aenting  even  common  ideas  under  new  and  f asdna- 
liag  shapes-^he  same  unlimited  sway  over  the  hu- 
Kian  passions,  which  fills  us  at  his  pleasure  with  jn- 
cUgnation,  with  horror,  or  with  pity ;  which  eqpially 
tDommands  our  laughter  or  our  tears;  in  a  word»  the 
same  wit>  humour,  palbos,  invention,  fiorae,  dignity, 
copiousness,  and  magnificence,  ae  canspifoasmB  in 
this  production,  widdi  wifi  inmiortalize  Ae  oAcr 
writings  of  Mr.  Burke,  lliere  is  noliuflg  ordinaiy 
m  his  view  of  a  sul^ect  He  is  peihapB  of  all  wiitsn 
the  one  of  whom  it  may  be  said  with  the  most  atadot 
truth,  that  no  idea  appears  hadcneyed  in  Ids  haads ; 
no  topic  seems  common  place  wIma  he  treate  It. 
When  the  subject  must  (from  the  very  narrowiMBBof 
human  conception  which  bouxids  evm  tibe  geaisBB  of 
Mr.  Barke)  be  borrowed,  the  turn  o£  Aooght  and 


S66  LIFE  OF  TBS 

the  maim^  of  presmtiiig  it  are  hfe  own.    The  at- 
titude and  drapery  are  peculiar  to  the  master/' 

It  mmf  be  noticed  that  two  or  three  others  of  his 
most  able  7«i4etermined  opponents  (and  the  itict  is 
mentioned  because  hostile  testimony  on  such  an  oc- 
casion will  be  least  suqiectad  of  exaggeration)  lode 
upon  this  work  as  his  greatest  effbrt  in  politics — 
4»rtainly  the  greatest  on  the  questi<m  of  the  Frendi 
Revolution ;  in  the  strong,  fiill,  yet  clear  train  of 
argoment  he  pursues,  the  precision  of  view  and 
unity  of  purpose  displayed  in  the  plan,  and  the 
sobriety  with  which  they  are  submitted  to  the  serious 
consideration  of  the  kingdom. 

As  the  Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord  might  in  many  of  its 
passages  be  considered  a  kind  of  field-day  to  the 
light  troops  of  his  imagination,  sarcasm,  and  hu- 
mour, so  the  ''  Regicide  Peace"  may  be  considered 
the  heavy  artillery — ^the  breaching  battery  of  his 
judgment  and  reifisoning  powers.  Besides  it  is  a  kind 
of  dying  l^acy  to  his  country.  It  was  the  last 
thing  he  lived  to  publish ;  and  it  is  believed  to  have 
had  no  common  eflfect  in  re-animating  the  drooping 
courage  of  the  nation.  **  To  a  people  who  have  been 
imce  proud  and  great,  and  great  because  they  wer^ 
proud,"  he  observes  in  his  first  page,  <*  a  change  in 
the  national  spirit  is  (he  most  terrible  of  all  revolu- 
tions." 

The  outset  offers  ^  profound  remark,  which  in  a 
few  words  appears  tq  demolish  a  favourite  popular 
notion,  that  kingdon^  resemble  men  in  having  their 
period^  of  youth,  mi^turity,  and  total  decay,  and  is 
levell^  at  the  fears  of  those  who  fancied  that  Eng- 
land vfaa  approaching  her  last  stage-* 


RIGHT  HON.  SDMUNB  BUKXE.  367 


*<  I  am  not  quite  df  the  mind  of  those  specnlatoTB 
/vdio  seem  assuredihat  necessarily,  and  by  the  con- 
stitution of  things,  all  states  have  the  same  periods 
of  infancy,   manhood,    and  decrepitude,  that  are 
found    in    the    individuals    who    compose    them. 
Parallels  of  this  sort  rather  furnish  similitudes  to 
illustrate  or  to  adorn,  than  supply  analogies  from 
.whence  to  reason.    The  objects  which  are  attempted 
.to  be  forced  into  an  analogy  are  not  found  in  the 
.same  classes  of  existence.    Individuals  are  physical 
beings  subject  to  laws  universal  and  invariable.  The 
immediate  cause  acting  in  these  laws  may  be  obscure; 
the  general  results  are  subjects  of  certain  calculation. 
But  commonwealths  are    not  phjrsical  but  moral 
essences.    They  are  artificial  combinations,  and  in 
their  proximate .  efficient  cause,  the  arbitrary  pro- 
ductions, of  the  human  mind.    We  are  not-yet  ae- 
quainted  with  the  laws  which  necessarily  influence 
the  stability  of  that  kind  of  work  made  by  that  kind 
of  agent. 

'*  There  is  not  in  the  physical  order  (with  which 
:they.  do  not  appear  to  hold  any  assignable  connexion) 
a  distinct  cause  by  which  any  of  those  fabrics  must 
necessarily  grow,  flourish^  or  decay;  nor  in  my 
opinion  does  the  world  produce  any  thing  more 
determinate  on  that  subject,  than  what  may  serve 
as  an. amusement  (liberal  indeed,  and  ingenious,  but 
still  only  an  amusement)  for  speculative  men.  I 
doubt  whether  the  history  of  mankind  is  yet  com- 
plete enough,  if  ever  it  can  be  so,  to  furnish  grounds 
for  a  sure  theory  on  the  internal  causes  which  neces- 
sarily affect  the. fortune  of  a  state.  I  am  far  from 
denying  the  operation  of  such  causes ;  but  they  are 


^8  LIFS  OF  THE 

infinitely  uncertain  and  nmdi  more  obseure,  and 
much  more  difficult  to  trace  tlum  tlie  foreign  csumb 
that  tend  to  raise^  to  dqireea,  and  aomedmee  to  oror- 
ndielm  a  onannwmity/' 

Toudbing  on  thia  sul^ect  in  the  letter  to  W. 
EUiotySsq*,  hes^TB — 

.  ^  I  am  not  of  opinion  that  the  race  of  men  and 
the  oommonwealtha  thejr  cnate,  like  the  bodies  of 
iadlTiduala,  grow  effete,  and  languid,  and  Uoodleas, 
and  ossify  by  the  necessities  of  their  own  confonn*- 
tion,  and  the  &ial  operation  of  longevity  and  tarns. 
These  analogies  between  bodies  natural  and  politk^ 
thou^  they  may  sometimes  illustrate  argvmeBta, 
fitmish  no  aigument  of  themselves.  They  are  but 
too  trften  used  under  colour  of  a  spedons  philoso|^y» 
to  find  apologies  fi^r  the  despair  of  laainess  and  puail- 
lanimity^and  to  excuse  the  want  4)f  all  manly  effints, 
when  the  farigencies  of  our  country  call  for  thnm 
more  loudly." 

The  first  letter  relates  generally  to  the  ovcrtuxeB 
fior  peace,  in  which  some  inddeaatal  and  relative 
matters  are  discussed.  The  second  enters  into  an 
examination  of  the  genius  and  character  ei  the 
French  JSevolution,  as  it  regards  other  nations,  and 
an  opinion  is  hazarded,  suj^rted  by  soeae  facts,  Hiat 
die  a^Eandizement  of  the  nation  at  tiie  expence  of 
part,  or  tiie  whole  of  the  rest  of  Europe,  fai  a  more 
direct  and  violent  way  than  the  common  policy  af 
states  would  warrant,  formed  an  induoement  with 
some  of  her  statesmen  to  countenance  the  first  es- 
eesses  of  the  peq>le. 

in  the  first  letter  he  contends,  that  tiie  regicide 
-fiustion  is  not  France,  and  that  to  treat  with  it  ia^ 


V 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND   BIHIKE.  369 

recognise  robbery  and  usurpation.  To  attael:  otA: 
feelings  and  prejudices  on  the  most  vulnerable  side, 
all  the  art  of  the  rhetorician  is  called  in  to  the  aid  of 
the  statesman,  hy  inquiring  what  we  should  think 
were  the  case  our  own,  as  in  the  following  splendid 
passage:— 

^^  Mere  locality  does  not  constitute  a  body  politic. 
'Had  Cade  and  his  gang  got  possession  o^  Londou, 
they  would  not  have  been  the  Lord  Mayor,  Alder- 
men, and  Common  Coundl.  The  body  politic  of 
France  existed  in  the  majesty  of  its  throne ;  in  the 
dignity  of  its  nobility ;  in  the  honour  of  its  gentry ; 
in  the  sanctity  of  its  clergy ;  in  the  revei^enee  of  its 
magistracy ;  in  the  weight  and  consideration  due  to 
its  landed  property  in:  the  severd  bailliages ;  in  the 
respetet  due  to  its  moveable  substance  repiresenCed  by 
the  cor^rations  of  l!he  kiiUjgdom.  All  these  parti* 
cnlar  moleeuke  united,  ferih  the  great  nlass  of  what 
is  truly  the  body  politic  in  all  countries.  They  are 
So  many  deposits  and  receptacles  of  judtiee ;  because 
they  can  only  eidst  by  jUbtiiccf.  Nation  is  a  mora! 
Msence,  not  a  geographical'  ai^togement,  6if  a  deno« 
minatioii'  6(  the  nomehclator.  France,  thdugh  out 
of  her  territorial  possession,  exists ;  because  the  sote 
possible  didmant,  I  mean  the  proprietary,  and  the 
government  to  which  die  proprietary  adheres,  existi^ 
and-  claims;  God  forbid,  that  if  yott  were  expelled 
from  your  house  by  riiffiatU  and  assassins,  that  I 
shduld  taH  the  material  Walls,  doors,  and  windows 

of    r,  th^  ancient  add  honourable  family  of 

;  aM .  I  to  transfer  to  the  intruders,  who,  not 

contient  to  turn  you  out  naked  to  the  wbrld,  would 
1^  you' of  your  vety  name,  all  the  esteem  and  respect 

TOL.  II.  2  B 


$79  I-IFE   OF   THE 

I  owe  to  you?  The  regicides  in  France  are  not 
France.  France  is  out  of  her  bounds,  but  the  king- 
dom  is  the  same. 

^^  To  illustrate  my  opinions  on  this  subject,  let  ns 
suppose  a  case,  which,  after  what  has  happened,  we 
cannot  think  absolutely  impossible,  though  the 
enquiry  is  to  be  abominated,  and  the  event  depre- 
cated with  our  most  ardent  prayers.  Let  us  sup- 
pose then,  that  our  gracious  Sovereign  was  sacri- 
legiously murdered ;  his  exemplary  queen,  at  the 
head  of  the  matronage  of  this  land,,  murdered  in  the 
same  manner;  that  those  princesses  whose  beauty 
and  modest  elegance  are  the  ornaments  of  the  coun- 
try, and  who  are  the  leaders  and  patterns  of  th^ 
ingenuous  youth  of  their  sex,  were  put  to  a  cruel 
and  ignominious  death,  with  hundreds  of  othersp 
mothers  and  daughters,  ladies  of  the  first  distinctioit ; 
that  the  Prince  of  Wales  and  the  Duke  of  York, 
princes  the  hope  and  pride  of  the  nation,  with  all 
their  brethren,  were  forced  to  fly  from  the  knives  of 
assassins — ^that  the  whole  body  of  our  exoeUent 
dergy  were  either  massacred  or  robbed  of  aU,  and 
transported — ^the  Christian  religion,  in  all  its  deno- 
minations, forbidden  and  persecuted ;  the  law  totally, 
fundamentally,  and  in  all  its  parts  destroyed — the 
judges  put  to  death  by  revolutionary  tribunals — the 
Peers  and  Commons  robbed  to  the  last  acre  of  their 
estates  ;  massacred,  or  in  exile  and  in  beggary— ^that 
the  whole  landed  property  should  share  the  very 
same  fate — that  every  military  and  naval  officer  of 
honour  and  rank,  almost  to  a  man,  should  be  placed 
in  the  same  description  o£  confiscatiooi  and  exile—* 
that  the  principal  merdiants  and  bankers  shoold  be 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  371 

drawn  out,  as  £rom^  an  hen-coop,  for  slaughter---^ 
that  the  citizens  of  our  greatest  and  most  flourishing 
cities/ when  the  hand  and  the  machinery  of*  the 
hangman  were  not  found  sufficient^  should  have*  been 
collected  in  the  public  squares,  and  massacred  by 
thousands  with  cannon ;  if  three  hundred  thousand 
others  should  have  been  doomed  to  a  situation  worse 
than  death  in  noisome  and  pestilential  prisons ;  in 
such  a  case,  is  it  in  the  faction  of  robbers  I  am  to 
look  for  my  country  ?  Would  this  be  the  England 
that  you  and  .1,  and  even  strangers,  admired, 
honoured,  loved,  and  cherished?  Would  not  the 
exiles  of  England  alone  be  my  government  and  my 
fellow  citizens  ?  Would  not  their  places  of  refuge  be 
my  temporary  country?  Would  not  all  my  duties 
and  all  my  affections  be  there  and  there  only? 
Should  I  consider  myself  as  a  traitor  to  my  country, 
and  deserving  of  death,  if  I  knocked  at  the  door  and 
heart  of  every  potentate  in  Christendom  to  succour 
my  friends,  and  to  avenge  them  on  their  enemies  ? 
Could  I,  in  any  way,  show^ myself  more  a  patriot? 
IVhat  should  I  think  of  those  potentates  who  insulted 
their  suffering  brethren ;  who  treated  them  as  va- 
grants, or  at  least  as  mendicants ;  and  could  find  no 
allies,  no  friends,  but  in  regicide  murderers '  and 
robbers  ?  What  ought  I  to  think  and  feel,  if  being 
geographers  instead  of  kings,  they  recognised  the 
desolated  cities,  the  wasted  fields,  and  the  rivers 
polluted  with  blood,  of  this  geometrical  measure- 
ment, as  the  honourable  member  of  Europe,  called 
England  ?  In  that  condition  what  should  we  think 
of  Sweden,  Denmark,  or  HoUand,  or  whatever 
power  afforded  us  churlish    and  treacherous 

3  B  S 


878  LI^S  OF  THE 

pitality,  if  they  ahoiild  invite  vm  to  joiB  the  standard 
of  onr  king,  our  laws,  and  our  reUgion»  if  thejr 
should  give  us  a  direct  promise  of  iMN>tectian — if 
after  all  this,  taking  advantage  of  onr  deplorable 
situation,  which  left  us  no  choice,  they  were  to  treat 
ns  as  the  lowest  and  vilest  of  all  meroenaries  ?  If 
they  were  to  send  us  £ar  frcm,  the  aid  of  our  king*, 
and  our  suffering  country,  to  squander  ns  away  im 
the  most  pestilential  climates  for  a  venal  enlarge- 
ment of  their  own  territories,  for  the  purpose  of 
trucking  them,  when  obtained,  with  those  very 
robbers  and  murderers  they  had  called  upon  ns  to 
oppose  with  our  blood?  What  would  be  our  ssa^ 
tim^its,  if  in  that  miserable  service  we  were  not  to 
be  considered  either  as  Englisdb,  or  as  Swedes,  Dutdi, 
Danes,  but  as  outcasts  of  the  human  race?  Whilst 
we  were  fighting  those  battles  of  thdr  interests,  and 
as  their  soldiered  how  should  we  feel  if  we  were  to 
be  excluded  from  all  th^ir  cartels  ?  How  must  we 
feel,  if  the  pride  and  flower  of  the  Snglish  nobility 
and  gentry,  who  mig^ht  escape  the  pestjltntial  dime 
and  the  devouring  sword,  sh<^d»  if  taken  prisonos, 
be  delivered  over  a$  rebel  subjects,  to  be  condeoined 
as  rebels,  as  traitors,  as  the  vUest  of  aU  crinrinals, 
by  tribunals  formed  of  Maroon  n^;ro  slaves,  covered 
over  with  the  blood  of  tkek  masters,  who  were 
made  free  and  cNrganised  bito  judges,  for  their  ro^ 
beries  and  murdars?  What  should  we  feel  under 
this  inhuman,  insulting,  and  barbarous  protection  of 
WtUf^^^i^  Swedes  or  Hcdianders  ?  Should  we  not 
oht^  Heaven,  and  whatever  justice  there  is  yet  on 
eapth  ?  Oppression  makes  wise  men  mad ;  but  the 
distemper  is  still  the  madness  of  the  wise,  whidi  is 


RIGHT  HON.  EDBiVND  BURKE.  373 

brtter  than  the  sobriety  of  fools.  The  cry  is  the 
^ce  of  sacred  misery,  exalted,  not  into  wild  raving, 
but  into  the  sanctified  phrenzy  of  prophecy  and 
inspiration-^in  that  bitterness  of  soul,  in  that  indigo 
nation  of  suffering  virtue,  in  that  exaltation  of 
despair,  would  not  persecuted  English  loyalty  cry 
out,  with  an  awful  warning  voice,  and  denounce  the 
destruction  that  waits  on  monarchs,  who  consider 
fidelity  to  them  as  the  most  d^ading  of  all  vices, 
who  suffer  it  to  be  punished  as  the  most  abominable 
of  all  crimes;  and  who  have  no  respect  but  for 
rebels,  traitors,  regicides,  and  furious  negro  slaves, 
whose  crimes  hove  broke  their  chains  ?  Would  not 
this  warm  language  of  high  indignation  have  more 
of  sound  reason  in  it,  more  of  real  affection,  more  of 
true  attachment,  than  all  the  lullabies  of  flatterers, 
who  would  hush  monarchs  to  sleep  in  the  anns  of 
death?  Let  them  be  well  convinced,  that  if  ever 
this  example  should  prevail  in  its  whole  extent,  it  will 
have  its  full  operation.  Whilst  kings  stand  firm  on 
their  base,  though  under  that  base  there  is  a  sure 
wrought  mine,  there  will  not  be  wanting  to  their 
levees  a  single  person  of  those  who  are  attached  to 
their  fortune,  and  not  to  their  persons  or  cause :  but 
hereafter  none  will  support  a  tottering  throne.  Some 
will  fly  for  fear  of  being  crushed  under  the  ruin ; 
some  will  join  in  making  it  They  will  seek  in  <lie 
destruction  of  royalty,  fame,  and  power,  and  wealth, 
and  the  homage  of  kings,  with  Beubel,  with  Camot, 
with  Bevettiere,  and  with  the  Mefiins,  and  the 
Talliens,  rather  than  suffer  exile  and  be^g;ary  with 
the  CandeSy  or  the  BrogUoSy  the  CMtries,  the 
UAwaisy  the  SerrentSy  the  Cmaleify  and  the  long 


374  LIFE   OF   THE 


line  of  loyal»  sufferixig  patriot  nobility,  or  to  be 
butchered  with  the  oracles  and  the  victims  of  the 
laws,  the  TfOrme^ons^  the  DfEgprememU^  and  the 
MalesherheM.  This  example  we  shall  give,  if 
instead  of  adhering  to  ou^  fellows  in  a  cause  which 
is  an  honour  to  us  .all,  we  abandon  the  .lawful 
government  and  lawful  corporate  body  of  France,  to 
hunt  for  a  shameful  and  ruinous  fraternity,  with  this 
odious  usurpation  that  disgraces  civilized  society  and 
Uie  human  race. 

**:  ^dis  then  esoimple  nothing?  It  is  every  thing* 
Example  is  the  school  of  mankind,  and. they  will 
learn  at  no  other.  This  war  is  a  war  against  that 
example. .  It  is  not  a  war  for  Louis  the  Eighteenth, 
or  even  for  the  property,  virtue,  fidelity  of  France* 
It  Is  a  war  for  George  the  Third,  for  Francis  the 
Second,  and  for  all  the  dignity,  property,  honour, 
virtue,  and  religion  of  England,  of  Germany,  and  (tf 
all  nations.** — 

A  third  letter,  treating  on  the  rupture  of  tfie 
negodations,  the  terms  of  peace  proposed,  and  the 
resources  of  the  country  for  the  continuance  of  the 
war,  was  in  progress  through  the  press  when  death 
snatched  the  great  writer  from  the  scene  of  his 
labours.  A  fburth  letter  also,  which,  it  has  been 
already  observed,  was  written  but  not  completed^ 
pursues  the  subject  through  its  various  relations, 
chiefly  in  the  form  of  comment  on  that  of  Lord 
Auckland;  to  the  doctrines  of  whidi  it  gives  as 
complete  an  overthrow  in  reasoning,  as  it  is  possible 
for  any  thing  of  the  kind  to  receive. 

In  conversation  his  opinions  were  quite  as  decided 
and  not  less  forcibly  expressed.    When  the  n^o* 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  S75 

dations  at  Lisle  which  he  thought  bo  derogatory  to 
the  country,  were  going  on,  and  in  the  opinions  of 
some  promised  peace,  he  said  from  the  first  that  such 
a  result  wias  impossible — "  that  he  was  only  asto- 
nished how  the  people  of  England,  or  such  a  body 
of  men  as  the  English  Ministry,  could  for  a  moment 
believe  that  the  republican  leaders  would  grant  peace, 
even  werepeace  desirable,  without  first  requiring  the 
surrender  of  our  national  honour.  They  are  doubly 
foes,'*  he  added ;  "  for  they  would  not  only  injure  but 
insult  you.*'  To  a  gentleman  who  began  to  talk  to 
him  on  the  probable  success  of  the  negociation  then 
pending,  and  consequent  termination  of  the  revolu- 
tion ;  "  The  termination  of  the  revolution !  to  be 
sure ! "  exclaimed  Mr.  Burke.  "  The  revolution 
over !  Why,  Sir,  it  is  scarcely  begun !  As  yet  you 
have  only  heard  the  first  music ;  youll  see  the  actors 
presently ;  but  neither  you  nor  I  shall  see  the  dose 
of  the  drama." 

Mr.  Fox  himself  is  more  than  once  said  to  have 
expressed  his  astonishment  at  the  singular  fulfilment 
of  his  predictions ;  and  when  a  nobleman  of  some 
political  celebrity,  in  allusion  to  the  vehemence  of 
Mr.  Burke  on  the  question  of  revolutionary  politics, 
hinted  an  opinion  that  he  was  a  splendid  madman — 
*^.  Whether  mad  or  inspired,"  is  reported  to  have 
been  the  answer,  <^  fate  seems  to  have  determined 
that  he  shall  be  an  uncommon  political  prophet." 

These  letters  are  worthy  to  be  recurred  to  by 
those  who  have  passed  through  the  tempestuous  and 
alarming  period  of  which  they  treat,  or  to  those  who, 
too  young  at  the  time  for  much  reflection  on  public 
matters,  may  wish  to  know  what  it  really  was,  and 


376  LIFE   OF   THE 

to  whfjt  degf;ee  of  terror  the  icontiqiied  success  of 
the  revplutionfry  ^rms  and  prmciides  j{^ad  given  rise* 
They  furnish  the  best  idea,  if  not  of  the  origin^  at 
least  of  thie  deadly  nature  of  the  war  in  i^lpich  the 
country  was  engaged ;  of  the  impossibility  of  con* 
eluding  peace  upon  any  terms  consistent  with  the 
national  honour  and  security ;  and  they  prove,  what 
perhaps  will  not  now  be  disputed^  that  peace  ^;^  tbft 
moment  in  any  way  would  have  been  more  dangerous 
to  our  best  interests  than  the  hostility  in  which  we 
were  compelled  to  persevere.  The  character  which 
is  drawn  of  what  he  call^  ^^  the  Cannibql  Bepublic^" 
in  different  parts  of  the  letters,  is  indeied  an  extra* 
ordinary  effort,  for  any  thi^g  eq^ual  to  ivhiph  in  com-« 
pleteness  and  force  the  reader  will  in  vain  look  in 
any  historical  detail,  ancient  or  modern.  The  expp^ 
sure  is  as  complete  as  if  every  individual  member  ot 
the  fearful  machine,  however  minute,  was  directly 
under  his  eye.  It  is  the  finished  piece  of  dissecti(m. 
of  a  wonderful  political  anatomist,  who  not  merely 
traces  the  broad  outline,  the  external  figure  and 
features  of  his  subject,  but  whose  knife  penetrates  Uk 
the  heart,  and  whose  ^aw  bares  evep  the  ^ensarkim 
of  this  great  moral  monster,  displaying  the  whole  of 
its  secret  workings,  motives,  and  principles  to  the 
view  of  the  world,  the  causes  of  its  inflammatory 
temperament,  and  morbid  yet  fearful  vigour. 

Nothing  is  more  remarkable  in  these  letters  than 
the  prophetic  truths  which  they  contain.  Futurity 
may  almost  be  said  to  have  been  open  to  his  view 
on  the  subject  they  discuss.  He  wrote  under  a 
strong  impression  that  his  death  was  not  far  dis* 
tant.     **  I  shall  qpt  live  to  behold,"  he  sa;^  in  his 


niGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  STT 

*  *. 

first  p^ge»  '' tfae  uurftvePlqg  of  the  intrkste  plot 
whick  saddens  ^id  perplexes  the  aiii^ul  drama  of 
Providence  ik)w  ap^ing  on  4ie  m^ral  tb^ve  of  the 
world*  Whethpr  for  thought  qr  for  aistion.I  am  at 
the  end  of  my  cai^^/'  At  the  condusion  of  the 
first  letter  ll^  Pgain  add^ — ^*  What  1 8$y,  I  JHHstwy 
at  once.  Whatevi^r  I  vmte  i|s  in  its  vtatnre  t^t»r 
mentary.  It  9197  have  the  weaUcne^s^  but  it  ha9 
the  sincerity  of  a  dying  declaration."  When  peaiCe 
was  eagerly  sought,  and  as  eagerly  anticipated 
perhaps  because  it  was  sought,  he  calmly  tells  the 
country,  "  We  are  not  at  the  end  of  our  struggle, 
nor  near  it.  Let  us  not  deceive  ourselves;  we 
are  at  the  beginnhig  of  great  troubles."*  Speak-*' 
ing  of  the  lukewarmness  of  the  friends  of  Ministry 
against  the  regicides  as  a  body,  we  are  told,  '^  much 
less  were  they  made  tp  infuse  into  our  minds  that 
stubborn  persevering  spirit  which  alone  is  capable  of 
bearing ,  up  against  those  vicissitudes  of  fortune 
which  will  probably  occur,  and  those  burthens  which 
must  be  inevitably  borne  in  a  long  war.  I  spe^k  it 
emphatically,  and  with  a  desire  that  it  should  be 
marked,  in  a  long  warr  A  little  further  on,  he 
hints  at  a  period  oi  twenty  years  or  more ; — ^with 
what  surprising  accuracy  on  all  these  points  it  is 
needless  to  point  out. 

Alluding,  in  another  part,  to  the  partition  of 
Poland,  which  he  had  never  ceased  to  reprobate,  are 
the  following  remarkable  words — ^*  Hereafter  the 
world  tvill  have  cause  to  me  this  iniquitous  measure^ 
and  they  most  who  were  mo$t  concerned  in  it.""  Who, 
on  reading  ibip,  will  not  immediately  bring  to  re- 
membrance the  calamities  and  degradations  sustained 


878  LIFE  OF  THte 

for  so  many  years  afterwards  by  Atistria,  Prussia, 
and  Russia,  and  more  particularly  the  former  tW09 
the  actors  in  that  spoliation, — under  the  iron  gripe 
of  Buonaparte?  Will  not  these  be  immediately 
acknowledged  as  the  Unerring  marks  of  retributive 
justice  ?  Is  it  quite  dear,  notwithstanding  the  pre- 
sent calm,  that  the  measure  of  retributionis  fiiU  ? 
Against  the  spoliation  of  the  territory  of  France 
also,  as  of  that  of  Poland,*  Mr.  Burke  laboured  hard 
to  teach  the  Allies  the  impolicy  in  1792  and  1793, 
but  he  laboured  in  vain ;  and  the  consequences  ulti- 
mately were,  that  condign  punishment  for  the  attempt 
which  he  anticipates  for  them  throughout  these 
letters.  They  may  be  considered  indeed  that  great 
man's  political  will.  The  fulfilment  of  so  many 
predictions  is  one  of  the  most  curious  circumstances 
in  modem  history.  At  all  times,  it  is  true,  dying 
words  have  been  considered  not  merely  impressive 
things,  but  in  many  instances  have  turned  out  sur- 
prisin^y  correct ;  and  indeed  if  men  are  ever  for  a 
moment  permitted  by  the  Almighty  to  have  the 

*  It  teems  to  have  escaped  general  notice,  that  the  mitfartunes 
of  Poland' in  her  final  partition,  may  he  in  some  degree  attributed, 
however  undesignedlj  on  their  part,  to  Mr.  Fox  and  the  Opposi- 
tion, in  the  strong  and  unusual  means  made  use  of  to  thwart  Mr. 
Pitt  in  the  business  of  Ocsakow.  They  lay  daim,  it  is  true,  to  the 
merit  of  having  prevented  war  on  that  (Occasion.  But  if  war  had 
then  taken  place  with  England  for  one  act  of  violence  compara* 
tively  trivial^  Russia,  in  all  probability,  would  not  have  ventured 
upon  a  second  and  still  greater,  aggression,  involving  the  existence 
of  a  nation,  with  the  certainty  of  a  second  war.  Nothing  after  aU 
might  have  saved  Poland  from  the  combination  then  on  foot 
against  her;  but  it  is  certain  that  Mr.  Pitty  from'  recent  expe- 
rience, had  little  encouragement  to  make  the  aMampt. 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUXD  BUBKE.  S79 

slightest  d^^ree  of  foreknowledge,  it  is  probaUy 
near  to  the  termination  of  life»  when  the  mind,  al- 
most abstracted  from  its  totterii^  tenement,  and  in 
same  degree  purified  from  teinporal  interests  and 
passions,  forms  the  most  correct  and  unprejudiced 
estimate  of  surrounding  circumstances, — of  what  is, 
and  perhaps  of  what  is  to  come.  The  sentiments  of 
ordinary  men  at  such  times  are  worth  serious  con- 
sideration. But  those  of  a  wise  and  pre-eminent 
person,  such  as  in  the  instance  before  us,  distin- 
guished through  life  for  the  possei^on  of  much 
penetration  and  knowledge  claim  no  inconsiderable 
portion  of  our  reverence  and  r^ard. 

It  has  been  already  observed,  that  though  a  de- 
cided advocate  for  war  as  the  less  evil  to  which  the 
country  was  exposed,  he  condemned  almost  imi- 
formly,  after  the  first  few  months,  not  only  some 
part  of  the  principle,  but  almost  the  whole  of  the 
plan  on  which  it  was  conducted.  That  it  was  most 
unfortunate  is  true ;  but  thou^  this  would  seem  to 
corroborate  Mr.  Burke's  judgment  o£  the  matter,  it 
by  no  means  finally  decides  the  question  against 
those  who  took  the  most  active  part  in  directing  the 
separate  measures.  There  were  other  diiferences, 
however,  in  his  and  in  Mr.  Pitt's  views,  which  seem 
also  to  tell  in  favour  of  the  superior  sagacity  of  the 
former,  and  as  they  bore  on  what  have  sinee  proved 
some  of  the  leading  points  of  the  contesti  may  be 
worth  enumerating. 

Mr.  Burke,  from  a  very  early  period  in  its  pro- 
gress, declared  that  it  would  be  an  arduous  and  a 
long  war. 

Mr.  Pitt,  on  the  contrary,  not  only  publicly  in  the 


880  LIFE  OF  TH£ 


House  of  Gommoiis,  but  at  his  own  fire-side,  at  his 
own  tabla^  and  in  the  most  unxeserved  manner  to 
Us  oonfi^tential  friends,  maintained  that  the  tpmr 
would  be  i^rt,  and  the  superiority  on  our  part 
not  doubtful. 

Mr.  Burke,  from  the  moment  of  the  declaration  of 
hostilities,  entreated,  nay,  almost  prayed,  to  the  coa-- 
lesoed  powers,  that  theintegrityof  the  French  territory 
should  be  preserved  sacred  and  inviolate,  as  neoes- 
sary,  not  only  to  their  own  immediate  success,  but  to 
the  fixture  equilibrium  of  Europe. 

Mr.  Pitt,  from  the  circumstances  attending  the 
surrender  of  her  first  towns  to  the  Allies,  pretty 
plainly  intimated  some  intention  of  permitting  her 
to  be  dismembered,  and  this  is  said  to  have  been 
the  first  thing  that  thoroughly  roused  her  to  indig- 
nation, and  to  the  most  determined  resistance. 

Mr.  Burke  wished  to  have  it  perfectly  understood 
in  France,  that  the  war  was  levelled  at  the  faction 
which  governed  her,  not  against  the  nation. 

Mr.  Pitt  thought  it  unnecessary  or  useless,  in  his 
public  manifestoes,  to  be  very  precise  in  drawing 
the  distinction  between  them. 

Mr.  Burke  urged  that  from  the  peculiar  nature 
of  the  contest,  France  should  be  attacked  only  in 
France,  and  that  frittering  away  our  force  against 
her  colonies,  and  even  reducing  them  one  after  ano- 
ther, neither  crippled  her  in  the  slightest  degree, 
nor  in  point  of  fact  advanced  one  step  nearer  to 
subduing  her. 

Mr.  Pitt,  by  the  sacrifices  he  made  to  effect  these 
conquests,  evidently  attributed  an  importance  to  them 
which  subsequent  events  by  no  means  warranted. 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  S8l 

At  the  conclnmon  of  the  struggle  we  have  seen 
all  Mr.  Burke's  ophuous  verified  or  foDowed  to-  the 
vmy  letter.  The  war  pro ved  trying  and  long  beja^nd 
precedent.  France  to  be  overpowered  was  obliged 
to  be  attacked  in  France.  The  aBied  Sovereigns^ 
who  in  self-defienoe  had  to  attack  the  old  root  of 
jacobin  aggression  which  had  sprouted  afresh  in  the 
form  of  an  Emperor,  found  it  necessarf  to  come  for- 
ward and  declare  that  they  made  war  not  upon  her, 
bat  upon  her  ambitious  ruler.  And  with  some  hun« 
dreds  of  thousands  of  men  at  their  backs,  which 
would  have  seemed  to  place  the  country  at  their  nod, 
th^  were  obliged  explicitly  to  declare  and  to  gua- 
rantee the  strict  integrity  of  her  territory  before  iiiey 
could  h<^  to  succeed  in  their  design. 

In  all  the  later  writings  of  Burke,  taking  the 
passi^f^es  almost  at  random,  they  give  us  his  idea 
of  the  ^rU  which,  in  the  first  instance  at  least,  the 
war  was  attempted  to  be  carried  on. 

«  It  was  not  «*  that  sort  of  war,- aUttding  to  the 
selfish  and  interested  motives  of  the  Allies,  <'  that 
I  was  amongst  the  least  considerable,  but  amongst 
the  most  zealous  advisers ;  and  it  is  not  by  the  sort 
of  peace  now  talked  of  that  I  wish  it  concluded.  It 
would  answer  no  great  purpose  to  enter  into  the 
pairticular  errors  of  the  war.  The  whole  has  been 
but  one  error.  It  was  but  nominally  a  war  of  al- 
liance. As  the  comUned  powers  pursued  it,  there 
was  nothii^  to  hold  an  alliance  together.  There 
could  be  no  tie  of  honor,  in  a  society  for  piUage." 

"  They  (the  combined  powers)  were  easily  led  to 
consider  the  flames  that  were  consuming  France  not 


SSife  LIFE  OIT  THE 

as  a  warning  to  protect  their  own  biuldings,  (which 
were  without  any  party  wall,  and  linked,  by  a  con- 
tiguatii»»  into  the  edifice  of  France,)  but  as  an  happy 
occasion  for  pi&iging  the  goods  and  for  carrying  off 
the  material^  of  their  neighbour's  house.  Their 
provident  fears  were  changed  into  avaricious  hopes- 
They  carried  on  their  new  dcssigns  without  seeming 
to  abandon  the  principles  of  their  old  policy.  They 
pretended  to  seek^  or  they  flattered  themselves  thai 
they  sought,  in  the  accession  of  new  fortresses,  and 
new  territories,  a  defensive  security."  f  ♦  . »  ♦ 
''  This  error  obliged  them,  even  in  their  offensive 
operations,  to  adopt  a  plan  of  war,  against  the  suc- 
cess of  which  there  was  something  little  short  of 
mathematical  demonstration.  Hiey  reftised  to  take 
any  step  which  might  strike  at  the  heart  of  afiairs. 
They  seemed  unwilling  to  wound  the  enemy  in  any 
vital  part.  They  acted  through  the  whole  as  if  they 
really  wished  the  conservation  of  the  jacobin  power ; 
as  what  might  be  more  favourable  than  the  lawful 
government  to  the  attainment  of  the  petty  objects 
they  looked  for.  They  always  kept  on  the  circum- 
ference ;  and  the  wider  and  remoter  the  circle  was, 
the  more  eageriy  they  chose  it  as  their  sphere  of 
action  in  this  centrifugal  war.  The  plan  they  pur- 
sued in  its  nature  demanded  great  length  of  time. 
In  its  execution  they  who  went  the  nearest  way  to 
work  were  obliged  to  cpver  an  incredible  extent  of 
country.  It  left  to  the  enemy  every  means  of  de* 
stroying  this  extended  line  of  weakness.     Ill  success 

t  Letten  on  Regicide  Petoe. 


aiGHT  HONi   EDMUND  BtJRKE.  388 

himy  part  was  sure  to  defeat  the  effect  of  the  whole. 
This  is  true  of  Austria.    It  is  still  mare  true  4^ 
England.''  * 

Of  the  war  policy  which  led  us  to  expensive  and 
destruetiye  expeditious  to  the  West  Indies  and  other 
places,  he  says—* 

**  A  remote,  an  expensive,  a  murderous,  and,  in 
the  ^d,  an  unproductive  adventure,  carried  on  upon 
ideas  of  mercantile  kniirht-errantry,  without  any  of 
the  generous  wildness  of  Quixotism,  is  considered 
as  sound,  solid  sense ;  and  a  war  in  a  wholesome 
dimate,.  a  war  at  our  door,  a  war  directly  on  the 
enemy,  a  war  in  the  heart  of  hju9  country,  a  war 
in  concert  with  an  internal  ally,  and  in  combination 
with  the  external,  is  regarded  as  foUy  and  romance."! 

Similar  disapprobation  of  the  policy  of  our  cabinet 
is  expressed  in  the  last  political  paper  to  which  he 
gave  his  mind,  dictated  about  two  months  before  his 
death : — t 

<<  Nothing  is  more  notorious  than  that  I  have  the 
misfortune  of  thinking,  that  no  one  capital  measure 
relative  to  political  arrangements  and  still  less  that 
a  new  military  plan  for  the  defence  of  either  king- 
dom (Ireland  is  included)  in  this  arduous  war,  has 
been  taken  upon  any  other  principle  than  such  as 
must  conduct  us  to  inevitable  ruin." 

Mr.  Windham  constantly  suj^rted  his  views, 
but  is  understood  to  have  been  over-ruled  by  his 
colleagues  in  the  Ministry. 

An  incident  which  occurred  about  this  time  is  said 

*  Letters  on  Regicide  Peace. 
t  lUd.  vol.  YiiL  p.  SSS^  Sva  ed. 
%  Burke's  Worki ,  toL  ix.  p.  455* 


^i  LXFB  OF   TItE 


to  hanre  gired  Mm  as  poor  an  o9i!iiio'&  of  Mr.  Pfittfs 
taste  and  virtii  as  he  entertained  of  tke  meadiii^s  of 
his  Cabinet  The  Grand  Dnke  of  Florence,  pressed 
all  thssi  moment  for  mbnef,  find  in  dread  of  losing 
Uft  magnificent  eoHectioit  of  works  of  art  wit&oat 
any  equivalent  by  the  rapid  progress  of  the  FrefiA 
kk  Itety,  is  reported  to  have  offered  to  send  them  to 
this  eountry  as  seirttfity  foi'  the  loan  of  2(Hh00(tf. 
and  to  Become  permanently  the  property  of  fingland 
if  Ae  money  sfeMdd  not  Be  returned  in  ten  years. 
This  propose  the  Minfisfer  declined;  finding  peiv 
haps  that  he  had  ali^ady  quite  as  many  claimants 
upon  hi^  \f  ays  and'  means  as*  he  eonlid  well  satisfy. 

A  present  of  tbe  ^  Letters  on  a  Regicide  Peapoe" 
were-  nent  to  His  Serene  Highness  the  Hereditaiy 
Prince  of  Wurtemberg,  wh&  vims  then  in  England,  a 
short  time  before'  Itr.  Ikake  quitted*  BalSx,  aecom^ 
pani^by  the  foUoWfing  nbte^--^ 

*<  The  aiitlibr  of '  the  Letters  whith  his  kinsman 
nM  ha^^lke*  honour  of  laying  before  the  Princo  of 
Wmlemberg,  WOidd'  not  have  presumed  to  tHink 
themr  ilk  <fie  smalleet  di^ree  V^orthy  of  b<^ing  so  pre- 
sented)  if  the  extraordinary  eondescension  of  His 
Serene  Highness  had  not  made  it  his  duty  to  acknoir- 
ledge.  his  respectftii  sense  of  that  condescension  by 
sueh  an  offering  to  it  as  was  alone  in  his  power. 

'^  Me  would  have  presented  himself  pemonally, 
according  to  His  Serene  Higfine^*s  gmdous  permis* 
sion,  signified'  tb  him  through  his  friend  Sir  John 
Hippesley,  to  pay  the  homage  which  every  one  owes 
to  the  rank  and  virtues  of  the  Prince  of  Wurtem- 
berg,  but  he  did  not  choose  to  afflbet  his  compassion 


BIGHT  HON.   £DMUKD   BUBKE.  SB6 

by  ezhibithig  to  Hte  Serene  Highiiegi  thte  nttttdiiA 
of  an  object  worn  oat  bjr  Age^  gtkf^  md  ibfilfmity^ 
and  condemned  to  perpetual  tis^teat. 

''  Thfe  antiior  is  cmiTihced  iiM  the  ftivoniable  ms^ 
timents  at  tbe  Prince  In  regard  to  tiiose  letters,  tti^ 
not  owing  to  the  talents  of  tl»s  writer,  btit  to  th^ 
cause  which  he  has  undertaken,  ho#eTer  weakly,  to 
defend,  and  of  which  His  Serene  BKghness  is  the 
protector  by  situation  and  by  disposition. 

**  The  author  hopes  that  if  it  should  please  @od^ 
by  his  all-powerful  interposition,  to  preserve  the 
ruins  of  the  civilized  world.  His  Serene  Highness 
will  become  a  great  instruiMnt  in  ite  necessary  repa« 
Mtion ;  and  that  not  only  ill  the  noble  estates  which 
coniJiriBe  his  own  patrimony^  but  ifa  the  t#o  great 
empires  in  which  he  has  so  natural  atid  jukt'  m  in* 
flneiee^as  well- as  in  the  tfihrd,*  whieh  His  Serene 
Higimesiii  i^  going  to  unit^  in  interest  and  «ffeet»>kl 
with  die  other  tWo;  In  tliis  he  will  co-<^rate  i;Hth 
the  benefieinl  ahd  enlArj^  views  of  the  iiluitrioas 
hodse  ^Q  its  virtuon$  ehief^  who  ai«  on  the  point  of 
having  the  happiness  bf  hid  alliance.  To  the  com- 
-pieU  success  of  that  alliance,  {iublic  and  doniestic^ 
sbpe  of  the  author's  latest  and  most  ardeiit  vowis 
will  be  directed ! 

<<  in  the  great  task  allotted  to  the  Sovereigns  who 
shaU  f^m^h.  His  Sisvene  fiiglitidss  WiH  find  it  neces- 
sary to  ekereise  in  his  own  territories,'  and  also  to 
reeoinmeha  vi^faerever  his  i^hieiii^e  shall  reat^,  a 
judicionsi  wietl-tempered,  and  tfianly  severity  in  the 

*  GrsAt  Britidn  jr-iii  allusioii  to  the  projected  knsUrriage  of  the 
Prittoe  widi  tbe  Princess  Boyal  of  En^nd. 

VOL.  II.  2  C 


S86  LIFE   OF  THE 

support  of  law,  order,  religion,  and  morals ;  and  this 
will  be  as  expedient  for  the  happiness  of  the  people, 
as  it  will  be  to  follow  the  natural  bent  of  his  own 
good  heart,  in  procuring,  by  more  pleasant  modes, 
the  good  of  the  subject,  who  stands  everywhere  in 
need  of  a  firm  and  vigorous,  fiill  as  much  as  of  a 
lenient  and  healing,  government. 

**  With  sentiments  of  the  most  profound  regard. 
His  Serene  Highness's  most  faithful  and  obliged 
servant,  ''  Edmund  Burke. 

''  Bath,  2Sth  April,  1797" 

The  sagacity  which  had  enabled  Mr.  Burke  to  pene- 
trate the  unhappy  results  in  the  train  of  the  French 
Revolution,  and  the  consequent  energy  and  pertina* 
dty  with  which  he  opposed  it  both  in  speaking  and 
in  writing,  excited  among  many  persons  who  had  not 
the  same  length  of  view  as  himself,  or  indeed  no  con- 
ception whatever  of  the  evils  impending,  a  variety  of 
conjectures  as  to  the  cause.  At  first  they  were  merely 
surprised  at  the  boldness  of  his  predictions ;  but  when 
he  seemed  determined  to  act  upon  them,  by  the 
breach  which  took  place  with  his  party  for  what  they 
thought  no  more  than  speculative  differences  of  opi* 
nion,  they  put  him  down  as  but  a  remove  from  in- 
sanity ;  an  idiea  which  was  afterwards  industriously 
circulated,  and  to  which  he  partly  alluded,  after  a 
vdiement  sally  in  the  House  of  Commons,  by  a  deli- 
berate address  to  the  chair  in  the  words  of  St.  Paul, 
**  I  am  not  mad,  most  noble  Festus,  but  speak  the 
words  of  truth  and  soberness.?  To  an  observation 
of  his  niece  one  day  on  the  violence  and  absurd  ru- 
mours by  which  he  was  incessantly  assailed,  he 


RIGHT  HON.  fiBMUND  BUBKE.  S87 

plied— *^  Some  part  of  the  world,  my  dear-~I  mean 
the  Jacobin  part  of  it— -even  think  or  affect  t9  think 
that /am  mad;  but  believe  me,  the  world  twenty  years 
hence  will,  and  with  reason  too,  think  from  their 
conduct  that  they  must  have  been  mad/'  With 
those  who  foimd  an  interest  in  decrying  his  public 
exertions,  the  rumour  was  frequently  renewed,  ^mrti- 
cularly  after  the  death  of  his  son,  when  his  grief  was 
known  to  be  extreme ;  and  it  sometimes  had  the 
effect  even  of  imposing  upon  his  friends,  an  instance 
of  which  occurred  soon  after  the  publication  of  the 
"  Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord/' 

A  report,  under  the  guise  of  seeming  precaution 
and  secresy,  reached  them  in  town  that  he  was  af<- 
flicted  with  such  total  alienation  of  mind  as  to  wan- 
der about  his  park  during  the  day,  kissing  his  cows 
and  horses ; — a  circumstance  which,  if  true,  would 
be  no  more  than  is  daily  done  by  many  honest  and 
fond  farmers  and  stable-boys,  without  any  imputa* 
tion  upon  them  of  a  wandering  of  the  wits ;  and 
which  with  Mr.  Burke's  warm  affection  towards  the 
dumb  as  well  as  the  speaking  members  of  his  esta- 
blishment would  have  been  no  great  matter  for 
wonder,  as  he  had  in  fact  some  favourite  cows  *  who, 
to  be  more  under  his  own  eye,  were  put  to  grasse 
near  the  house.  A  man  of  rank,  however,  left  Lon- 
don instantly  to  learn  the  particulars,  and  was  re- 
ceived in  the  usual  manner  of  an  old  friend  without 
his  observing  any  perceptible  change  in  his  host.   Not 

*  A  pretty  piece^  by  Reinagle,  delineating  the  house  and 
ground^  represents  Mr.  Burke  in  front  of  the  mansion  patting  a 
fiivouxite  cow,  and  his  lady  and  a  female  friend  W9lking  at  alittle 
distance. 

SC  S 


390  LIFE   OF  TH£ 

he  despised.  Of  the  latter,  an  instance  occurred 
about  this  time  which  furnishes  a  pretty  good  sample 
of  ihejuHke  with  which  he  was  commonly  assailed. 
A  bookseller  named  Owen,  who  published  the 
Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord,  and  was  in  the  mean  time 
entrusted  with  the  MS.  of  the  first  two  letters  of 
Regicide  Peace  for  publication,  represented  to  some 
friends  of  their  author  who  called  upon  him  to  ac- 
count for  the  profits  of  the  first  work,  that  tliese  bad 
been  surrendered  to  him  by  that  gentleman  as  a  gift. 
This  story  Mr.  Burke  had  no  other  means  of  dis- 
proving than  by  his  word  to  the  contrary,  which  no 
one  who  knew  him  could  for  a  moment  disbelieve. 
Unwilling  however  to  enter  into  a  contest  on  such  a 
matter  with  such  a  man,  he  put  up  with  the  loss. 
This  was  not  all ;  for  with  the  characteristic  assur- 
ance of  a  pirate,  Owen,  as  soon  as  he  found  that  the 
manuscriptof  Regicide  Peace,''  was  to  be  withdrawn 
out  of  his  hands,  published  it  on  his  own  accoimt, 
not  only  without  the  concurrence,  but  against  the 
positive  prohibition  of  the  author.  This  impudent 
invasion  of  literary  property  he  attempted,  in  a  pre- 
face to  the  surreptitious  copy  of  the  work,  to  de- 
fend ;  *  it  was  stopped,  however,  by  legal  interfe- 
rence ;  and  as  an  appropriate  conclusion  to  such  an 
unprincipled  proceeding,  his  defeated  cupidity  found 

*  One  of  the  ablest  critical  journals  of  the  tune,  in  spealdng  of 
the  work,  thus  noticed  the  transaction : 

'« Before  we  proceed  to  consider  the  more  importanl  parts  of 
these  interesting  and  extraordinary  productions,  our  attention  is 
naturally  attracted  by  the  strange  competition  which  seems  to 
prevail  between  the  genuine  and  the  surreptitious  editions.  It 
affinrds  die  first  Instance,  as  far  as  we  recollect,  of  a  literary  piracy 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  891 

vent  in  an  abusive  advertisement  against  **  Edmund 
Burke,  the  Pensioner."* 

This  person,  whose  representations  it  is  difficult 
to  credit,  used  to  say  that  his  men,  who  carried  to 
Mr.  Burke  the  proof  sheets  of  his  publications  for 
correction,  were  so  roundly  rated  for  their  nustakes, 
that  at  length  none  of  them  would  venture  to  ap- 
proadi  his  house,  particularly  when  any  error  greater 
than  usual  had  been  committed.  He  was  therefore 
often  obliged  to  take  them  himself.  Dodsley's  (his 
preceding  publisher's)  men  told  quite  a  different  story. 
They  represented  him  as  affable  and  courteous  (as 
was  his  custom  indeed  to  the  working  class  of  people), 
taking  particular  pains  to  explain  what  he  wished  to 
be  done,  frequently  ordering  them  liquor,  and,  on 
their  withdrawing  from  the  room,  never  permitting 
them  to  have  the  last  bow. — They  were  accustomed 
to  remark  that  though  he  was  sometimes  surrounded 

being  openly  avowed  and  defended.  Hitherto  no  property  has 
been  thought  more  sacred  than  that  of  an  author  in  his  unpub- 
lished works. .   *     •     • 

"  It  appears^  from  Mr.  Owen's  own  statement  that  he  was 
entrusted  with  a  manuscript  with  a  view  to  publication ;— -subject 
certainly  to  the  pleasure  of  the  author^  and  to  every  change  of 
opinion  which  might  take  place  in  his  mind.  A  trustee  thus  dr- 
cumstanoed  had  undoubtedly  no  more  right  to  puUiBh  the  work 
without  the  consent  of  the  writer,  than  if  the  manuscript  had 
been  procured  by  breaking  open  the  library  at  Beaconsfield. 
The  defence  set  up  by  Mr.  Owen  not  a  little  aggravates,  in  our 
opinion,  the  impropriety  of  his  conduct.  He  informs  us,  that 
Mr.  Burke,  after  having  made  him  a  present  of  the  profits  of  his 
letter  against  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  sent  some  Mends  to  demand  an 
account  of  the  sale  of  that  publication.  He  does  not  teU  us  that 
he  was  actually  compelled  to  refund  these  profits :  he  only  affirms 
that  he  was  desired  to  account  for  them ;— and  this  he  ofi*ers  in 
defence  of  an  acknowledged  breach  of  trust." 


S9S  MFS  OF  THE 

bjr  1^  iarge  $nd  vppu&atiy  cavSimtA  maw  of  papcn, 
he  could  immediately  put  his  iMndUpw  mj  ptftieu- 
lar  «n9  9fU^  migbt  b^  waptfd* 

Finttf^  medical  aid  cf  little  arall  in  lestoring 
IUb  bfttltb,  Mr.  Burke  proceeded  to  Batii  early  in 
f^jdmny  1797^  for  the  li^tiefit  of  tibe  waten,  wfaidi 
in  early  life  had  prored  ao  beneficial.  Here  he  con- 
l4|iU0d  for  about  four  numtibis  ctrnfinad  to  his  bed  or 
|9  hia  couch  th^  greater  part  of  the  time;  '*  My 
jt^tb;'  8(ud  he,  in  a  letter  dictated  at  the  time» 
^hm  gone  down  very  rapidly;  and  I  have  been 
brought  hither  with  very  faint  hopes  of  life,  and 
enfeebled  to  such  a  degree,  as  those  ^^fao  had  known 
neaome  time  a^Q,  could  Bcaicely  think  credible. 
Since  I  came  hither,  my  sufferings  hav^  been  greatly 
f^ggsavated,  and  my  little  strengtli  still  further  re- 
duced ;  so  that  though  I  am  told  the  symptoms  of 
toy  disorder  begin  to  carry  a  more  favourable  aspeet, 
I  pass  the  far  larger  part  of  the  twenty-four  hours, 
indeed  almost  the  whole,  either  in  my  bed  or  lying 
upon  the  couch  from  which  I  dictate  this.*' 

The  letter  from  which  this  extract  is  taken  was 
written  upon  the  affairs  of  Ireland,  in  reply  to  one 
addressed  to  him  from  that  country ;  and  though,  as 
W^  see,  tndicted  by  snatches  amidst  pain  an^suffer- 
ing,  enforces  with  little  diminution  of  force  the  same 
wise  policy  toward  healing  her  internal  divisions 
which  he  had  always  advised,  but  which  still  remains 
for  some  fortunate  statesman  to  complete.  He  hints 
at  something  like  the  Union,  by  urging  that  the  seat 
of  her  superior  or  Imperial  politics  should  be  in 
England ;  Ireland  is  hurt,  he  says,  not  by  too  much 
English,  but  by  too  much  Irish  influence, — by  whjat 


RIGHT   HON.  ¥:D]KUKD  BUBKE.  393 

he  tenn^  a  small;  higotp&i,  but  more  ^specfaUjr  a 
Belfish  faction — ^f^  There  1$  4  great  cry  agam$t  Eaa^ 
lish  influence.  |  f^^  quite  sure  that  it  id  Jri^b  inr 
fiuenoe  that  dreads  the  English  h^^bits*'' 

'<  I  think,"  it  is  added,  adyerting  to  the  rehellious 
designs  weU  knpuni  to  be  then  in  agitation,  **  thot 
Great  Britain  would  be  ruined  by  the  s^>a:raticA  of 
Ireland ;  but  as  there  are  degrees  eren  in  ruiii,  it 
would  fall  the  most  heavily  on  Irdand.  By  siich 
a  separation  Ireland  would  be  the  niost  completely 
undone  country  in  the  world ;  the  most  wretched, 
the  most  distracted,  and,  in  the  end,  the  most  deso- 
late part  of  the  habit^hl^  globe.  Little  do  many  peo- 
I^e  in  Ireland  conip^^  how  mi}^  of  its  prosgerity 
has  been  owing  to,  and  still  depends  upoq,  its  inti- 
mate connexion  witl^  this  kingdom." 

Of  the  repal  of  Lord  Fitzwilliam,  H^e  sqrurca,  it 
is  to  be  feared,  of  most  of  the  subsequent  miseries 
which  afflicted  Ireland,  h^  writer — 

^  Yoiir  mistake  with  regard  tp  me  Ues  in  suppos- 
ing that  I  did  not,  when  his  remoYal  was  in  agita- 
tion, i^trongly  and  personally  represent  to  several  (rf 
his  Majesty's  Ministers,  to  whom  I  could  have  thb 
mo^t  ready  acc^s,  the  true  i^tate  of  Ireland,  and  thd 
mischi^  which  sooner  or  later  must  arise  from 
subjecting  the  mass  of  the  people  to  the  dapripoUS 
and  interested  domination  of  an  exceeding  small 
faction  and  its  dependencies." — It  is  added^  that  he 
had  scarcely  seen  those  Ministers  since  that  repre- 
aentation-<^-that  they  were  then  (1797)  no  friends  of 
his,  or  of  any  one  who  held  his  opinions. — ^There  is 
little  doubt  that  Mr.  Pitt  felt  jealous  of  his  interfe- 
rence even  in  some  points  on  which  they  did  not 


394  LIFE   OF   THE 

materially  differ ;  and  on  this  business  of  the  Roman 
Catholics,  if  we  are  to  believe  public  £ame,  the  Mi- 
nister ultimately  adopted  his  opinions.  It  appears 
likewise  that  the  junior  Burke  took  so  much  inte- 
rest in  the  success  of  this  question  as  to  converse 
with  his  father  about  it  not  more  than  half  an  hour 
before  his  death. 

The  day  before  he  quitted  Bath,  the  following 
letter  was  dictated  to  Mrs.  Leadbeater,  and  signed 
by  his  tremulous  hand ;  it  was  among  the  last  dis- 
patched of  his  private  letters : — 

**  My  dear  Mrs.  Leadbeater, 
*'  I  feel  as  I  ought  to  do  your  constant  hereditary 
kindness  to  me  and  mine.  What  you  have  heard  of 
my  illness  is  far  from  exaggerated.  I  am,  thank 
God,  alive,  and  that  is  all.  Hastening  to  my  disso- 
lution, I  have  to  bless  Providence  that  I  do  not 
suffer  a  great  deal  of  pain.  *  *  ♦  *  * 

*'  Mrs.  Burke  has  a  tolerable  share  of  health  in 
every  respect,  except  much  use  of  her  limbs.  She 
remembers  yoiu*  mother's  most  good-natured  atten- 
tions, as  I  am  sure  I  do,  with  much  gratitude.  I 
have  ever  been  an  admirer  of  your  talents  and  vir- 
tues, and  shall  ever  wish  most  cordially  for  every 
thing  which  can  tend  to  your  credit  and  satisfaction. 
I  therefore  congratulate  you  very  heartily  on  the 
birth  of  your  son ;  and  pray  remember  me  to  the 
representative  of  your  family,  who  I  hope  still  keeps 
up  the  school  of  which  I  have  so  tender  a  remem- 
brance; though  after  so  long  an  absence,  and  so 
many  unpleasant  events  of  every  kind  that  have 
distracted  my  thoughts,  I  hardly  dare  to  ask  for  any 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BUEKE.  395 

one,  not  knowing  whether  they  are  living  or  dead 
lest  I  should  be  the  means  of  awakening  unpleasant 
recollections.  Believe  me  to  be,  with  the  most 
respectful  and  affectionate  regards,  my  dear  Mrs. 
Leadbeater, 

**  Your  faithful  friend, 

"  And  very  humble  servant, 

''  Bath,  2Sd  May,  1797-  "  EdmUND  BurKE. 

**  P.  S.  Pray  remember  me  to  Mr.  Leadbeater.  I 
have  been  at  Bath  these  four  months  to  no  purpose, 
and  am  therefore  to  be  removed  to  my  own  house  at 
Beaconsfield  to*morrow,  to  be  nearer  to  a  habitation 
more  permanent,  humbly  and  fearfully  hoping  that 
my  better  part  may  find  a  better  mansion." 

There  is  something  very  touching  in  the  mild  and 
cheerful  tone  of  this  resignation  to  the  Divine  will,  as 
well  as  in  the  allusions  to  his  usual  residence  being 
so  near  to  where  he  had  determined  should  be  his 
final  resting-place  (Beaconsfield  Church) ;  and  the 
release  of  his  spirit  from  its  infirm  and  fragile 
earthly  inclosure  to  a  state  of  more  perfect  freedom. 
Of  this  letter  the  late  Bishop  of  Meath  justly  ob- 
served in  a  communication  to  the  lady  to  whom  it  is 
addressed ;  <'  The  great  scene  on  which  Providence 
gifted  and  allotted  him  to  move*  was  now  closing ; 
and  no  record  can  ever  be  produced  to  mark  the 
leading  features  of  his  character  so  strongly  as  that 
you  possess  in  this  letter.  It  shows  him  still  che- 
rishing the  early  affections  of  his  heart,  among  the 
higher  cares  which  the  station  he  had  attained  im- 
posed upon  him;  and  after  having  controlled  the 


396  LIFE  OF  THE 

deBtinies  of  tjie  world,  as  all  now  agree  he  did,  by 
his  later  writings,  turtung  his  last  thoughts  to  the 
retired,  unassuming  daughter  of  the  friend  of  his 
youth.*** 

To  Beaconsfield,  therefore,  where  he  had  enjoyed 
so  many  of  the  honours  and  comforts  of  life,  he 
returned  to  die;  for  there  is  something  of  satis- 
faction to  the  human  heart  in  breathing  our  last  and 
in  depositing  our  bones  in  the  spot  where  we  have 
spent  the  most  honourable  and  useftil  part  of  our 
being ;  **  It  is  so  far  at  least,"  said  he  to  some  one 
just  before  quitting  Bath,  **  on  my  way  to  the  tomb, 
and  I  may  as  well  travel  it  alive  as  dead.** 

While  awaiting  the  event  which  was  delayed  for 
a  month  longer,  he  gave  directions  about  the  dis-. 
posal  of  some  of  his  papers,  particularly  desiring 
that  the  chief  of  those  relating  to  the  impeachment 
should  be  published,  repeating  the  same  opinion  of 
th6  whole  proceeding  which  he  had  always  expressed. 
Public  affairs  occupied  much  of  his  thoughts  to  the 
last  moment ;  **  Never,"  said  he^  <*  succumb  to  the 
enemy;  it  is  a  struggle  for  your  existence  as  a 
nation ;  and  if  you  must  die,  die  with  the  sword  in 
your  hand ;  but  I  have  no  fears  whatever  for  die 
result ;  there  ifi  a  salient,  living  principle  of  energy 
in  the  public  ibind  of  England  which  only  requires 
proper  direction  to  enable  her  to  withstand  this  or 
any  other  ferocious  foe ;  persevere  therefore  till  this 
tyranny  be  overpast."  To  his  own  increasing  weak- 
ness he  submitted  with  the  same  placid  and  chria- 
tian-like  resignation,  undisturbed  by  a  murmur; 

*  Poemft  by  Mary  Leadbeaier,  p.  823. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  897 

hoping,  as  he  said,  to  obtain  the  divine  mercy  through 
the  intercession  of  a  blessed  Redeemer,  which,  in  his 
own  words,  ^<  he  had  long  sought  with  unfeigned 
humiliation,  and  to  which  he  looked  with  a  trembling 
hope." 

Shortly  before  the  fatal  event  took  place.  Earl 
Fitzwilliam  communicated  to  Mr.  Fox  the  informa- 
tion that  it  could  not  be  far  distant,  and  that  gentle- 
man having  sent  off  a  letter  of  inquiry  on  the 
subject  to  Mrs.  Burke,  received  next  day  by  express 
an  answer  couched  in  nearly  the  following  terms. 
Whatever  may  be  the  opinion  of  the  rigidity  with 
which  the  subject  of  this  note  performed  what  hb 
thought  his  duty,  it  is  impossible  not  to  admire  the 
exalted  principle  which  prompted  it. 

'*  Mrs.  Burke  presents  her  compliments  to  Mr. 
Fox,  and  thanks  him  for  his  obliging  inqtiiries. 
Mrs.  Burke  communicated  his  letter  to  Mr.  Burke, 
and,  by  his  desire,  has  to  inform  Mr.  Fox  that  it  has 
cost  Mr.  Burke  the  most  heart-felt  pain  to  obey  the 
stem  voice  of  his  duty  in  rending  asunder  a  long 
friendship,  but  that  he  deemed  this  sacrifice  neces- 
sary; that  his  principles  remained  the  same;  and 
that  in  whatever  of  life  yet  remained  to  him,  he 
conceives  that  he  must  live  for  others  and  not  fot 
himself.  Mr.  Burke  is  convinced  that  the  principles 
which  he  has  endeavoured  to  maintain  are  necessary 
to  the  welfare  and  dignity  of  his  coimtry,  and  that 
these  principles  can  be  enforced  only  by  the  general 
persuasion  of  his  sincerity.  For  herself  Mrs.  Burke 
has  again  to  express  her  gratitude  to  Mr.  Fox  for 
his  inquiries." 

A  presentiment  almost  of  the  moment  of  the  final 


898  LIF&  OF  THE 

snimnons  from  the  world  seemed  to  have  ]»evailed 
with  him ;  for  several  of  the  preyious  hours  were 
emgiojed  in  sending  messages  of  affectionate  remem- 
brance to  absent  friends,  in  expressing  his  forgive- 
ness of  all  who  had  in  any  manner  injured  or 
offended  him,  and  in  requesting  the  same  from  all 
whom  his  general  or  particular  infirmities  had 
emended.  He  recapitulated  his  motives  of  action  in 
great  public  emergencies,  his  then  thoughts  on  the 
alarming  state  of  the  country,  ^  the  ruling  passion 
even  in  death,"  gave  some  private  directions  con- 
nected with  his  approaching  decease,  and  afterwards 
listened  attentively  to  the  perusal,  by  his  own  desire, 
of  some  serious  papers  of  Addison  on  religions  sub- 
jects and  on  the  immortality  of  the  souL  TTiese 
duties  finished,  his  attendants,  with  Mr.  Nagle  of 
the  war-office,  a  relation,  were  conveying  him  to  his 
bed,  when,  indistinctly  articulating  a  blessing  on 
those  around  him,  he  sunk  down  and  after  a  momen- 
tary struggle  expired,  July  9th,  1797»  in  the  sixty- 
eighth  year  of  his  age.  ^*  His  end,"  said  Dr.  Law- 
rence with  great  truth,  *^  was  suited  to  the  simple 
greatness  of  mind  which  he  displayed  through  life, 
every  way  unaffected,  without  levity,  without  osten- 
tation, full  of  natural  grace  dnd  dignity.  He  ap- 
peared neither  to  wish  nor  to  dread,  but  patiently 
and  placidly  to  await  the  appointed  hour  of  his  dis- 
solution." "  When  I  have  revolved  his  various 
labours,"  writes  the  author  of  the  Pursuits  of  Lite- 
rature after  an  animated  apostrophe  to  his  memory, 
*'  I  would  record  in  lasting  characters,  and  in  our 
holiest  and  most  honourable  temple,  the  departed 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  999 

orator  of  £ngland»  the  statesman,  and  the  christian, 
Edmund  Burke!  '<  Bemuneratio  ^us  Cum  Altis^ 
simoT 

When  examined  after  death,  his  heart  was  foimd 
to  be  pretematurally  enlarged,  affording  some  con- 
firmation to  the  belief,  if  the  common  idea  of  the 
S3anpathy  between  the  heart  and  the  affections  of 
the  mind  have  any  foundation  in  fact,  that  grief  for 
the  loss  of  his  son  killed  him.  An  abscess  had  like- 
wise formed  in  his  side,  which  some  of  his  medical 
attendants,  among  whom  was  Dr.  Lynn,  of  Windsor, 
considered  of  a  cancerous  nature;  and  this,  no 
doubt,  formed  the  origin  of  that  extreme  debility  of 
which  he  had  latterly  complained,  and  which  had 
almost  deprived  him  of  the  power  of  locomotion. 

On  the  15th  of  July  he  was  buried,  according  to 
his  own  direction,  in  Beaconsfield  church,  in  the  same 
grave  with  his  son  and  brother;  the  body  being 
removed  to  the  house  of  Mrs.  Salisbury  Haviland, 
in  the  town  of  Beaconsfield,  the  day  before,  for  the 
convenience  of  a  walking  procession  to  the  church, 
in  which  ceremony  seventy  members  of  the  benefit 
society  he  had  patronised,  clad  in  mourning,  preceded 
the  corpse.  "  Soon  after  five  o'clock,"  writes  the 
antiquarian  friend,  whose  communications  have  been 
already  noticed,  ^^  an  immense  number  of  carriages 
had  arrived  in  the  town  from  London,  and  other 
places,  which  conveyed  many  distinguished  members 
of  both  houses  of  parliament  to  pay  the  last  mark 
of  attention  to  the  remains  of  this  admired  and  cele- 
brated man.  I  never  witnessed  a  more  imposing 
solemnity.  It  was  not  merely  mourning  in  exterior ; 
I  knew  many,  more  especially  among  the  poorer 


400  IJFE  OF  THE 

classes,  who  felt,  and  showed  that  they  Mt,  the  loss 
of  a  friend.    The  pall  was  borne  hy 

Duke  of  DeyonflluTey  KG. 


Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  afterwards 

Bail  of  Minto. 
The  Speaker  of  the  Holue  of 

Commonfly  now  Ld.  Sidmouth. 
The  Duke  of  Portland,  KG. 
Earl  FitzwiUiam. 


« 


Eatl  of  Itadnquin,  aiherWarda 
MarquiB  of  Tkomond. 

Mr.  Windham. 

Lord  Chancellor  Loug^borougfay 
afterwards  Earl  of  RosslTn. 

Few  gentry  of  the  surrounding  country  (as 
you  have  observed  in  your  first  edition)  omitted 
to  be  in  attendance  on  this  occasion ;  and  all  the 
neighbouring  pulpits,  in  alluding  to  his  loss,  paid 
that  tribute  to  his  private  virtues*  which  none 

*  An  old  Ballitore  friend  gaVe  vent  to  yeiy  natural  and  sinoere 
feelings  on  Hie  loss  of  a  friend^  it  whom  the  fcttHy  had  usuen  to 
be  proud,  in  a  piece  from  which  the  foUowiag  is  an  extract: — 

'**  ON  THS  DBATH  01^  BDM0NI>  BttllKS. 

**  'Tis  o'er : — ^that  lamp  is  quenched  in  endless  night. 
Which  Nature  kindled  at  her  purest  flame; 
By  science  fiuin'd, — if  sctence  covdd  enhknoe 
A  gen^s  from  which  science  caught  new  rays : 
No,  'tis  not  quenched;  the  spark  ethereal  lives. 
And  it  shall  blaze  along  the  track  of  time« 
While  we,  who  joy'd  beneath  the  radiant  beam, 
ShaU  mix  unheeded  with  our  kindled  clay. 

That  star  is  set,  on  earth  to  shine  no  more. 

On  which  admiring  nations  wond'ring  gax^d : 

TfaAt  po^rfbl  stream  of  eloquence  isdry. 

Which  with  con^manding  forc^  o'erwhdm'd  the  mind. 

O !  mourn  for  this^  that  from  a  bgiren  worid 

Such  excellence  is  fled !  But,  public  care 

Apart,  in  pennve  solitude  retired. 

Lamenting  friendship  drop^  the  silent  tear. 

There  teiider  recollection  calls  to  mind 

The  sweet  benevolence  which  matk'd  that  mien  ; 


RIGHT  HON.  SBMUNJD  BURKE.  401 

whatever  mig^t  be  their  political  opinions,  could 
well  withhold."  Mr.  Fox  proposed  in  the  House 
of  Oommons  that  he  should  be  interred  in  the 
national  receptacle  for  illustrious  talents^  West* 
minster  Abbey — an  honour,  however,  which  he 
was  informed  the  terms  in  which  the  will  of  the 
deceased  was  couched,  quite  precluded.  The  writer 
has  been  informed  from  authority  which  he  cannot 
question,  that  this  fact  was  commimicated  to  Mr. 
Fox  previous  to  his  proposition  being  made  in  the 
House,  and  the  inference  drawn  from  it  by  some  of 
Mr.  Burke's  friends  was,  that  as  he  knew  the  pro- 
posal could  not  be  complied  with,  he  introduced  it  to 
preserve  a  seeming  show  of  liberality  towards  his 
memory  which  he  did  not  in  reality  feel.  This  it  is 
to  be  hoped  is  a  mistake,  or  at  least  an  erroneous 
conclusion.  But  it  is  true,  that  the  reply  of  Mr. 
Fox  to  a  letter  of  Mr.  Nagle,  who  wrote  off,  to  him 
an  account  of  the  decease  of  Mr.  Burke  soon  after 
it  took  place,  and  detailing  some  plarticulars  of  the 
conversation  which  preceded  it,  was  a  cold  common- 
place. 

That  mien  which  uiuidmiring  who  could  view  ? 
Tis  hen^  with  soft  regiet  and  pleasing  paia^ 
To  trace  the  social  and  domestic  scene. 
Where,  ever  shining,  most  of  all  he  shone. 
She  saw  the  lih'rol  hand,  the  healing  halms 
Dispense  unhoasdng ;  and  to  haggard  eyes, 
Bedimm'd  with  poverty,  and  pain,  and  care. 
The  vivid  rays  of  health,  and  hope  restore. 
Th'  unvarjring  friendship,  and  the  candid  mind. 
Prompt  to  forgive,  and  ready  to  atone. 
Were  his.^  And  O !  how  close  the  tender  ties 
Of  father,  hushand,  brother,  bound  his  heart!" 

VOL.  II.  2   D 


402  1.IFE  OF  THE 


In  his  will,  a  dkinclination  is  eiqiresaed  to  unne- 
cessary expence  in  his  funeral,  or  to  any  posthumous 
honours  beyond  a  simple  inscription  on  the  flag 
stone,  or  on  a  small  tablet  on  the  churdi  waU.  This 
restriction,  though  in  accordance  with  his  common 
unpretending  habits,  may  be  considered  an  unusual 
instance  of  self-denial  in  a  public  man ;  for  thou^ 
rank,  and  honours,  and  money  may  be  refused  by 
such  persons  when  alive,  tiiere  are,  perhaps,  none 
who  would  decline  the  monumental  brass,  and  mar- 
ble, and  inscription  which  conveys  to  posterity  some 
intimation  that  their  merits  were  at  least  in  part 
estimated  and  valued  by  their  contemporaries.  His 
reason  for  adverting  to  the  subject  he  expresses  to  be 
**  because  I  know  the  partial  kindness  to  me  of  some 
of  my  friends ;  but  I  have  had  in  my  life  but  too 
much  of  noise  and  compliment." — The  first  clause  in 
this  testamentary  document  marks  in  a  manner 
equally  striking,  his  piety,  and  his  attachment  to  his 
departed  kindred :  **  According  to  the  ancient,  good, 
and  laudable  custom  of  which  my  heart  and  undo^ 
standing  recognize  the  propriety,  I  bequeath  my  soul 
to  God,  hoping  for  his  mercy  only  through  the  merits 
of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  My  body  I 
desire  to  be  buried  in  the  church  at '  Beaconsfield, 
near  to  the  bodies  of  my  dearest  brother  and  my 
dearest  son,  in  all  humility  praying  that  as  we  have 
lived  in  perfect  unity  together,  we  may  together 
have  a  part  in  the  resinrrection  of  the  just.'*  His 
brother-in-law,  Mr.  John  Nugent,  he  bequeaths  to 
the  protection  of  his  political  friends,  in  order  to 
provide  for  his  interests;  and  to  his  **  entirely 
beloved  and  incomparable  wife,  Jane  Mary  Burke,*" 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  408 

19  giv^n  the  whole  of  his  'propetty  in  fee-simple; 
leaving  a  legacy  to  his  niece,  Mre.  Haviland^  who6« 
husband  was  alive  at  the  time  the  will  was  drawn 
up,  of  1000/. 

On  a  tablet  sudb  as  he  desired  in  the  south 
aisle  of  Beaconsfield  church,  is  the  following  in- 
scription : — 

Near  this  place  lies  interred  all 

That  was  mortal  of  the 

Right  Honourahle  Edmund  Burke^ 

Who  died  on  the  9th  of  July,  1797,  aged  6S  years : 

In  the  same  grave  are  deposited  the  remains  of  his  only  son, 
Bidiard  Burke,  Esq.,  representative  in  Parliament  for  the 
Borough  of  Malton, 

Who  died  the  2d  August,  1794>  aged  85 : 

Of  his  iKOther  Richard  Burke,  Esq.,  Barrister  at  Law, 

And  Reocnrder  of  the  City  of  Bristol, 

Who  died  on  the  4th  Fehruary,  1794 : 

And  of  his  widow  Jane  Maiy  Burke,  who  died  on  the  2d  April, 

1812,  aged  78.* 

From  the  intimate  connexion  of  this  family  with 
that  of  Haviland,  it  may  not  he  extraneous  to  in- 
troduce, from  the  authority  of  the  same  antiquarian 
friend,  the  mortuary  notices  upon  the  latter  in  Penn 
ehurch;    the  words  of   the  inscription  upon  the 


*  A  friend  adds  the  family  arms— 

On  a  mural  monument  in  the  south  aisle  of  Beaconsfield 
dmrch—- The  arms  of  Burke  impaling  Nugent,  sculptured  in 
bold  relief. 

On  a  cross  gules,  the  first  quarter  charg^  with  a  lion  rampani 
sable — Burke  impaling  Nugent — Ermine,  two  bars  gules — 
Nugent. 

Crest — On  a  wreath,  a  mountain  cat  sejant  guardant  proper, 
gorged  with  a  pUia  collar  and  chained  or. 

2  D  2 


404  LIFE  OF   THE 

General,  few  as  they  aire,  but  expressive,  being  the 
suggestion  of  Mr.  Burke. 

'^  Near  the  vestry  door,  on  a  tablet  sculptured 
with  military  trophies  and  other  appropriate  em- 
blems, by  Hickey— the  arms  of  Haviland — argent 
three  embattled  castles  sable,  impaling — Aston — 
argent — a  fess  and  in  chief  three  lozenges  sable — ^in- 
scribed— ^here  rest  the  remains  of  General  William 
Haviland,  late  Colonel  of  the  45th  Regiment  of 
Infantry. — ^An  experienced  and  successful  com- 
mander without  ostentation.  A  firm  friend  without 
profession.  A  good  man  without  pretence.  He 
died  Sept.  16,  1784,  aged  67  years. — Also  of  Mary^ 
relict  of  Wm.  Townly  Balfour,  Esq.  of  the  kingdom 
of  Ireland,  who  departed  this  life  August  2,  17899 
aged  56  years— after  having  by  her  exemplary 
patience,  pious  resignation  under  a  long  and  severe 
illness,  impressed  a  genuine  value  upon  those 
amiable  qualities  both  of  the  understanding  and  of 
the  heart,  which  made  her  the  delight  of  all  who 
knew  her. — ^Also  of  Mary,  wife  of  Samuel  Ruxton 
Fitzherbert,  Esq.  of  the  kingdom  of  Ireland, — ^in 
whom  simplicity  of  manners  adorned  a  fine  under- 
standing— ^the  love  of  her  duty  adorned  the  pradioe 
of  it — and  her  affection  was  rendered  inestimable 
by  the  sincerity  and  truth  with  whidi  it  was  accom- 
panied. She  died  Sept.  13th,  1786,  aged  29  years. 
This  monument,  sacred  to  the  memory  of  the  best 
of  husbands,  an  affectionate  twin  sister,  and  a  duti- 
ful daughter,  is  erected  by  their  disconsolate  sur- 
vivor.  Salisbury  Haviland. 

^*  Mrs.  Salisbury  Haviland  herself  was  buried  at 
Penn,  October  6,  1807 ;  and  her  unmarried  sister,. 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  405 

Abigail  Aston,  who  had  lived  with  her/ was  likewise 
inteired  Feb.  11th,  1814,  aged  30  years. — ^And  as  the 
more  humble  friends  of  IVIr.  Burke's  family  must  not 
be  foi^tten  in  this  list  of  the  departed,  it  may  be  men- 
tioned that  those  old  and  faithful  servants,  Webster 
and  his  wife,  repose  near  the  remains  of  their  master, 
in  thet;emetery  at  Beaconsfield;  the  former  dying  in 
December,  1810,  the  latter  in  August,  1818." 

Mrs*  Burke  continued  to  reside  at  Butler's  Court, 
visited  and  esteemed  by  all  the  friends  of  her  late 
husband,  among  whom  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Windham 
were  at  all  times  particularly  attentive,  until  her 
death,  April  2,  1812,  being  previously  in  a  great 
degree  crippled  in  the  use  of  her  limbs  through 
rheumatism.  It  was  believed  for  some  time  that 
she  was  the  author  of  a  novel  published  in  1800, 
called  "  Elliott,  or  Vicissitudes  of  Early  Life,"  but 
her  friends  imiversally  disbelieve  the  fact,  though 
the  publisher  of  the  work  (Mr.  Cawthorn)  had  some 
correspondence  on  the  subject  of  it  with  a  lady  of  that 
name  residing  at  Beaconsfield,  whom  he  understood  to 
be  the  widow  of  Edmund  Burke.  The  real  author 
however  was  probably  a  Mrs.  Burke,  who  published 
the  *^  Sorrows  of  Edith,"  and  some  other  tales. 

Some  time  previous  to  her  death,  Mrs.  Burke 
sold  the  mansion  and  estate  of  Butler's  Court  to  her 
neighbour,  James  Du  Pre,  Esq.  of  Wilton  Park,  for 
38,500/.,  reserving  the  use  of  the  house  and  grounds 
during  her  life,  and  for  one  year  after  her  death. 
Mrs.  Thomas  Haviland,  the  niece  of  Mr.  Burke, 
lived  with  her  until  her  decease,  under  the  promise 
of  being  made  her  heir,  which  however  did  not  take 
effect ;  she  received  however  a  legacy  of  5000/.,  the 


406  LIFE  OT  THE 

remainder  of  the  prq>erty  being  bequeathed  to  Mrs. 
Burice's  own  nephew,  Mr.  Nugent.  Mrs.  Haviland 
was  a  most  amiable  and  deserving  woman,  not  un- 
worthy of  her  relationship  to  her  celebrated  uncle, 
who,  as  we  have  seen  in  his  letters,  was  always 
lavish  in  her  praises.*  She  retired  to  live  at  Brom;^ 
ton  for  the  benefit  of  her  health,  and  died  there  in 
March,  1816,  at  the  age  of  forty-six. — Her  son, 
Thomas  Haviland  Burke,  Esq.  of  Lincoln's  Inn,  in 
consequence  of  Mr.  Burke's  brothers  dying  unmarried, 
becomes  the  lineal  representative  of  the  fiimily,  and 
as  such  has  assumed  the  name  and  arms  of  his  uncle, 
no  other  person  standing  in  the  same  degree  of 
lationship  to  that  distinguished  man.  The 
and  all  the  tokens  of  regard  and  admiration  which 
he  had  received  from  the  good  and  great  of  the  world, 
devolved,  with  the  bulk  of  the  property,  to  Mr. 
Nugent.  The  pieces  of  sculpture  which  ornamented 
the  house  were  sold  by  auction  by  Christie,  and  some 
of  them  now  grace  the  British  Museum. 

An  old  and  costly  carved  chair  of  particular  w<^k- 
manship,  which  had  been  for  many  years  used  in 
the  House  of  Commons,  was,  upon  some  alteration 
there^  displaced  and  presented  to  Mr.  Burke.  It 
was  sold  among  his  other  remains,  and  purchased  by 
Peregrine  Dealtry,  Esq.  of  Bradenham  House,  and 
after  his  decease  in  1814  was  presented  by  his  sisters 
to  Dr.  Parr,  who  preserved  it  as  one  of  the  great 

*  Haying  occasion  to  consult  an  eminent  sui^geon  in  Loiiidan 
(Sir  C.  B.),  after  being  a  widow,  he  fell  in  love  with  her,  and 
being  extremely  rich,  made  an  offer  of  a  splendid  settlement  along 
with  his  hand,  which  however,  from  some  scruples  as  to  the  pro- 
priety of  second  marriages,  she  thought  proper  to  decline. 


RIGHT   HOK.  EDMUND   BUBKE.  407 

ornaments  and  curiosities  of  Hatton.  On  his  death, 
in  March  1825,  it  was  transferred  by  bequest  to 
Dr.  John  Johnstone,  of  Birmingham,  in  whose 
possession  it  now  is. 

Butler's  Court  was  burnt  down  on  the  morning 
of  the  33d  April,  1813,  having  been  let  to  a  clergy- 
man named  Jones,  for  the  purposes  of  a  school,  in 
whose  occupation  the  accident  took  place.  It  is  re- 
markable that  Cliefden,  the  seat  of  his  intimate 
friend  the  Marquis  of  Thomond,  •  only  five  miles 
distant,  shared  the  same  fate  a  few  years  before^ 
being  burnt  down  in  May  1795.  Cliefden  is  cele- 
brated by  Pope;  and  there  his  present  Majesty 
passed  some  of  his  younger  dayB.  This  house  as 
well  as  Butler's  Court  were  built  upon  the  plan  of 
Buckingham  House,  with  a  grand  centre  connected 
U)  wings  by  corridors. 


408  LIFE   OF   THJQ 


CHAPTER  VII. 

His  Pen(m.*^Mtii]iers.^HatAts.---CoiiTer8atioiial    Powen  and 
.  Sallies.— Private  Character.*— Ardour  of  Temper  and  cquted 
InitabiUty.— Contemporaiy  Opinions  formed  of  him. 


In  adverting  to  some  of  the  public  and  private 
characteristics  of  this  celebrated  man^  there  will  be 
found  so  much  to  commend,  that  simple  justice  may 
run  the  risk  of  being  deemed  indiscriminate  pane- 
gjrric.  Against  this  the  writer  is  solicitous  to  guard 
himself  by  giving,  in  additibn  to  any  estimate  of 
those  merits  .he  may  himself  form,  the  opmions  of 
others  more  competent  perhaps  to  convey  a  correct 
judgment  upon  the  matter,  and  who  were  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  origmal,  as  well  as  with  the  facts 
they  respectively  state,  and  several  of  whom  being 
opposed  to  him  on  political  topics  will  not  be  siis- 
pected  of  bestowing  undeserved  praise. 

To  give  a  just  representation  of  a  great  political 
character,  whose  life  has  been  spent  in  the  constant 
contention  inseparable,  in  England  at  least,  from  the 
calling  he  pursues,  is  a  laborious  indeed,  but  not  an 
impracticable  undertaking.  To  give  such  a  repre- 
sentation as  shall  be  universally  acceptable,  is  im- 
possible*  A  statesman  is  at  all  times  to  the  mass  of 
the  world,  an  object  of  suspicion  during,  or  near  to, 
the  time  in  which  he  lives.  If  there  be  two  ways  of 
construing  his  conduct,  the  unfavourable  side  is  com- 
monly taken ;  yet  the  contrary  impression  would  be 


BIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BUBK£.  409 

im^uestionably  nearer  to  the  truth,  for  of  all  public 
men  he  is  the  most  interested  in  doing,  or  in  aiming  to 
do,  rights  whether  he  looks  to  the  continuance  of  pr^ 
sent  power,  or  to  the  possession  of  that  which  every 
man  would  have,  if  he  could,  namely,  posthumous  re» 
putation.  Itistheduty,  therefore,  of  the  biographer 
or  historian  diligently  to  attend  to  this  ;  to  give  even 
to  a  questionable  diaracter  an  attentive  and  impar- 
tial, if  not  a  favourable  consideration.  This  is  the 
business  not  merely  of  common  charity  but  of  strict 
justice ;  for  there  is,  notwithstanding  such  constant  ex* 
damations  against  poor  human  nature,  much  more  of 
gjood  among  mankind  than  we  are  always  willing  ta 
acknowledge.  Many  statesmen,  therefore^,  however 
unpopular  or  imprudent  in  their  politics,have  not  been 
without  their  public  as  well  as  private  virtues.  But, 
an  the  other  hand,  where  no  crimes  are  charged, 
where  no  suspicion  attaches,  and  where  even  adver- 
saries have  been  compelled  to  render  praise,  the 
task  of  the  narrator  is  as  easy  as  it  is  agreeable. 
Such  is  the  case  with  Mr.  Burke.  Judged  therefore 
by  this  standard,  he  will  be  acknowledged  to  be  not 
merely  a  great  man,  but  an  eminently  good  one,  in 
whose  character  or  conduct  there  will  be  found  little 
which themostdevotedadmirerneed be  afraid  to  probe, 
little  of  human  infirmity  over  which  an  enemy  can 
trium]^ }  for  his  errors,  whatever  they  were,  chiefly 
arose  from  pushing  the  passions  of  virtue  to  excess. 
In  person,  he  was  five  feet  ten  inches  high,  erect, 
well-formed,  never  very  robust;  when  young,  ex-, 
pert  in  the  sports  of  his  country  and  time,  active  in 
habits  suited  to  his  years  until  his  last  illness,  and 
always,  it  scarcely  need  be  added,  particularly  active 


410  LIF£  OV  THE 

in  mind,  having  nothing  of  what  he  called  **  that 
master-yice,  sloth"  in  his  composition*  His  counte* 
nance  in  early  life  possessed  considerable  sweetness, 
and  by  his  female  friends  was  esteemed  handsome. 
At  a  later  period,  it  did  not  appear  to  be  marked, 
particularly  when  in  a  state  of  quiescence,  by  that 
striking  expression  which  from  the  well-known 
qualities  of  Ins  mind  many  persons  expected  to  see ; 
but  the  lines  of  thought  were  evident,  and  when 
excited  by  discussion  there  was  an  occasional  woric-^ 
ing  of  the  brow,  occasioned  partly  by  being  near- 
sighted, which  let  the  attentive  observer  into  the 
secret  of  the  powerful  workings  within.  From  this 
defective  state  of  vision,  he  almost  constantly,  from 
about  the  year  1780,  wore  spectacles.  An  Irish 
literary  lady  of  talent— and  ladies  are  posaiUy  the 
best  judges  of  these  matters — who  enjoyed  the 
pleasure  of  his  acquaintance,  thus  describes  him 
at  the  age  of  50  in  a  letter  to  the  present  writer : 

*'  He  was  the  handsomest  man  I  recollect  to  have 
seen ;  his  stature  about  six  feet,  well-made,  portly, 
but  not  corpulent.  His  countenance  was  sudi  as  a 
painter  would  find  it  difficult  precisely  to  draw  (and 
indeed  I  always  understood  they  complained  of  the 
difficulty) ;  its  expression  frequently  Varying,  but 
always  full  of  benevolence,  marked,  in  my  opinion, 
by  strong  intellect  and  softened  by  sensibility.  *  *  * 
A  frdl  length  portrait  of  him  hangs  in  the  Examina- 
tion Hall  of  Dublin  University;  the  figure,  features, 
and  complexion  are  like  his,  but  the  countenance  as 
a  whole  by  no  means  does  him  justice.  *  *  *  He  was 
a  most  delightfril   companion,  and  had  the  art  of 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUEKE.  411 


rendering  the  timid  easy  in  Ms  company.  His  con- 
versation, which  was  often  serious  and  instmcUye^ 
abounded  at  other  times  with  wit,  pleasantry,  and 
good  humour;  whatever  subject  he  spoke  upon,  and  he 
spoke  upon  all,he  excelled  in,  as  if  it  had  formed  a  par-a 
ticular  study ;  and  his  language,  though  sometimes 
considered  ornamented  on  public  occasions,  was  dis- 
tinguished  by  a  fascinating  simplicity,  yet  powerfol 
and  appropriate  beyond  what  I  can  tell/'—Another 
lady,  with  whose  husband,  who  was  a  relation,  he 
occasionally  spent  a  day  in  Lamb's  Cionduit-street, 
in  London,  describes  him  nearly  in  the  same  terms--** 
**  His  address  frank,  yet  dignified ;  his  conversation 
interesting  and  various  ;  and,  particularly  to  female 
society,  playful  and  amusing  in  a  high  degree.''--* 
The  best  picture  of  him  is  that  painted  by  Reynolds 
in  1775,  from  which  the  engraving  which  accom- 
panies this  volmne  is  taken ;  the  origiiml  is  in  the 
possession  of  Earl  FitzwiUiam,  being  bequeathed  to 
him  by  Mrs.  Burke.  That  which  hangs  in  the  Exa^ 
mination  Theatre  of  the  University  of  Dublin  was 
taken  at  a  much  later  period  of  life,  the  face  shorter 
than  in  Sir  Joshua's,  with  something  of  contempla- 
tive severity  in  the  expression.  A  better  likeness,  as 
is  commonly  said,  is  that  modelled  in  wax,  and  finety* 
finished  by  T.  R.  Poole,  who  was  medallion  modeller 
to  his  Royal  Highness  the  Prince  of  Wales,  but 
it  sihould  be  remembered  that  it  was  taken  at  a 
much  later  period  of  life  than  the  picture  by  Sir 
Joshua. 

Of  the  bust  by  Hickey,  which  has  been  noticed 
as  having  been  recently  presented  by  his  nephew. 


41S  LIFE  OP  THE 

T.  Hayiland  Burke,  Esq.,  to  the  British  Museum,  the 
history  is  somewhat  curious.  It  af^pears  that  her 
late  Majesty  Queen  Caroline,  when  Princess  of  Wales, 
professing  great  admiration  of  Mr.  Burice,  wrote  ta 
Mrs.  Burke  at  Butler's  Court,  requesting  permission, 
for  a  cast  to  he  taken  from  the  bust  in  her  poesessiiHi, 
for  a  collection,  which  she  was  then  making  of  the 
celefarated  men  of  the  British  nation.  Mrs*  Burke^ 
naturally  desirous  to  have  all  due  honour  done  ta 
her  late  husband,  and  conceiving  that  this  memorial 
of  him  could  not  be  better  or  more  safely  placed  than 
in  royal  custody,  offered  to  her  Royal  BQghness's  ac- 
ceptance a  present  of  the  bust  itself.  The  offer  was 
accepted.  No  such  collection  however  as  had  been 
stated,  was  ever  formed.  At  the  sale  of  her  BjoyaL 
Highnesses  effects  at  Connaught  House,  the  bust  was 
found  buried  amid  some  household  rubbish,  and  along 
with  other  things,  received  a  place  as  an  article  of  sale 
in  the  catalogue  of  the  auctioneer.  In  tiiis  situation 
Mrs.  Thomas  Haviland  heard  of  it,  and  gave  a  com* 
mission  to  have  this  relic  of  her  unde  purchased  pri-^ 
vately,  but  the  sum  demanded  being  exorbitant,  it 
was  thought  better  to  wait  for  the  public  sale.  Here 
there  was  a  strong  contest  for  it  with  Tumerelli,  the 
sculptor,  who  seemed  extremely  anxious  for  the  po&* 
session  of  the  bust,  upon  which  he  evidently  put  a 
high  value;  and  to  him,  in  consequence  of  a  mistdce 
of  the  agent  employed  by  Mrs.  Haviland,  it  was 
knocked  down.  A  dispute  arising,  however,  it  wu^ 
again  put  up.  Tumerelli  was  in  the  mean  time  in^ 
formed  that  as  a  relation  of  Mr.  Burke  was  desirous 
of.  possessing  the  object  of  contention,  let  him  bid 
what  sum  he  might,  he  would  be  outbid,  and  finding 


RIGHT  HONl  EDMUND  BUBKE.  413 

this  to  be  the  case,  after  one  or  two  attempts,  he  gave 
vp  any  further  effort,  and  it  was  procured  for  com-« 
paratively  a  small  sum. 

Like  Mr.  Fox,  Mr.  Burke  was  somewhat  negli* 
gent  in  common  dress,  being  latterly  distinguished 
by  a  tight  brown  coat,  which  seemed  to  impede  all 
freedom  of  motion,  and  a  little  bob-wig  with  curls, 
which,  in  addition  to  his  spectacles,  made  his  person 
be  recognized  by  those  who  had  never  previously 
seen  him,  the  moment  he  rose  to  speak  in  the  House 
of  Commons.  Though  an  ardent  lover  of  poetry, 
which  he  prized  at  every  period  of  life,  and  more 
especially  of  that  of  Milton  *  in  particular  as  fur- 
nishing the  grandest  imagery  in  the  language ;  yet, 
contrary  to  the  common  idea  that  love  for  poetry  and 
music  go  together,  he  had  little  ear  for  the  latter ; 
Mr.  Fox,  it  is  known,  had  none  at  all ;  and  it  has 
been  remarked  as  a  singular  coincidence  .that  the 
ears  of  Mr.  Pitt  and  Dr.  Johnson  should  have  been 
equally  tuneless. 

From  some  little  peculiarity  in  his  gait,  which  has 
been  already  noticed.  Sir  Joshua  who,  as  an  artist,  had 
an  eye  to  these  things,  used  to  say  that  it  sometimes 
gave  him  the  idea  of  his  having  two  left  1^.     He 


Jahximi,  Goldfliiitli,  and  many  othenf,  he  had  a  very 
poor  opinion,  as  is  evident  in  his  letter  of  criticisni.  on  the  arts  to 
Barry^  of  Ossian ;  besides  which,  three-fourths  at  least,  he  said, 
of  the  productions  ascribed  to  that  ancient,  he  considered  to  be 
forgeries,  so  entirely,  that  the  writer  had  not  even  tradition  iti 
build  upon,  though,  in  othen.no  doubt  he  had  made  use  of  local 
and  romantic  tales.  "  It  was  only  a  tricfc  of  cool  Scotch  effion« 
teiy/'  he  once  said,  ^'  to  try  the  precise  range  of  English  gullibi- 
lity ;  nothing  but  the  blind  nationality  of  Scotchmen  themsdves 
gave  the  least  countenance  to  the  imposture." 


414  LIFE  OF  THE 

received  people  frequently  in  his  library  and  di€B6* 
ing-room;  and  here  when  buaily  occupied  on  im« 
portant  subjects,  which  during  much  of  his  parlia- 
mentary life  was  the  case^  he  was  accustomed  to  dic- 
tate letters  and  answers  with  facility.  With  writings 
intended  £Dr  the  press  he  was  on  the  contrary  fastidi* 
oua,  and  took  great  pains  with  them  by  frequent  and 
careful  revision,  whenever  he  aimed  at  makingastxmig 
impression ;  in  these,  therefore,  there  was  nothij^  of 
carelessness.  Blottings  and  erasures  were  of  course 
numerous,  so  as  to  render  his  manuscripts  frequently 
difficult  to  decipher  to  any  one  not  accustomed  to 
the  task.  The  matter  itself  of  his  compositions  was 
rarely  altered,  but  the  arrangement  and  illustration 
of  it,  and  the  turn  of  the  sentences,  not  unfirequently. 
Habit,  however,  had  roidered  the  most  perspicuous 
modes  of  expression  so  fiamiliar  to  him,  that  in  this 
respect  his  most-hastily  written  and  confidential  com- 
munications offer  little  for  censure. 

His  address  in  private  life  possessed  something  of 
a  chivalrous  air— noble,  yet  unaffected  and  unre- 
served, unpressmg  upon  strangers  of  every  rank,  im* 
perceptibly  and  without  effort,  the  conviction  of  his 
being  a  remarkable  man.  "  Sir,"  said  Johnson^  to 
exemplify  this,  ''  if  Burke  were  to  go  into  a  stable 
to  give  directions  about  his  horse,  the  ostler  would 
say, '  We  have  had  an  extraordinary  man  here.'**  His 
manner  in  mixed  society  was  unobtrusive,  surren- 
dering at  once  his  desire  to  talk  to  any  one  who  had, 
er  who  thought  he  had,  the  least  daim  to  be  heard : 
^  Where  a  loud-tongued  talk^  was  in  company,'* 
writes  Cumberland,  "  Edmund  Burke  dedined  all 
daims  upon  attention."    When  Johnson  one  eve- 


RIGHT   HON.   SDMUHD  BX7RKE.  415 

mng  seized  upon  every  topic  of  discourse  that  was 
started,  and  an  auditor,  after  separating,  remarked 
to  Mr.  Burke  that  he  should  have  liked  to  hear  more 
from  another  person,  meaning  him,  *^  Oh  no,"  r&> 
plied  the  latter,  **  it  is  enough  for  me  to  have  mng 
the  bell  to  him."  To  the  lower  dass  of  people,  it 
has  been  remarked,  he  was  slways  affable.  When  a 
youth,  who  was  on  a  visit  to  him  at  Beaconsfield, 
treated  the  respectful  salutation  of  a  servant  con* 
temptuously,  Mr.  Burke  called  him  aside,  and  ter« 
minated  a  remonstrance  with  him  on  the  subject  by 
saying,  **  Never  permit  yourself  to  be  outdone  in 
courtesy  by  your  inferiors.'*  Of  literary  society  he 
was  extremely  fond,  preferring  it,  more  perhaps  than 
his  own  political  interests  demanded,  to  that  which 
was  merely  distinguished  by  rank  and  fashion ;  but 
after  the  deaths  of  his  older  firiends  he  did  not  culti-* 
vate  it  as  before. 

His  conversational  powers  partook  of  the  same 
fulness  of  mind  which  distinguished  his  eloquence ; 
they  never  ran  dry;  the  supply  for  the  subject 
always  exceeded  the  demand.  *'  Burke,*'  said  John** 
son,  **  is  never  what  we  call  hum-drum ;  never  in  a 
hurry  to  begin  conversation,  at  a  loss  to  carry  it  on, 
or  eager  to  leave  off."  On  many  other  occasions  also 
the  moralist  celebrated  the  excellence,  of  ^'  his  talk," 
and  though  in  some  degree  of  a  different  character 
from  his  own,  it  was  not  less  instructive,  and  little 
less  forcible.  Among  friends,  his  sallies  of  thought 
were  frequently  of  a  serious  cast,  sometimes  philo-* 
sophical,  sometimes  moral,  the  elevation  of  the  sen* 
timent  commonly  forming  a  contrast  to  the  unaf- 
fected simplicity  with  which  it  was  delivered.     A 


416  LIFE  OF  THE 

profound  reflection^  or  great  moral  truth,  often  slip- 
ped from  him  as  if  by  accident,  without  seeming  to 
have  cost  any  trouble  in  the  elaboration ;  while 
Jdmson's  throes  in  the  delivery  of  bright  thoughts 
Were  obvious,  and  he  took  care,  by  his  loud  and  au- 
thoritative manner,  to  hammer  the  ofl^ring  into  his 
hearers.  What  we  have  of  the  sayings  of  Burke 
make  us  anxious  for  more ;  he  has  himself  indeed 
drawn  up  the  line-of-battie  of  his  genius  to  the 
public  gaze  in  his  works,  but  who  does  not  r^pret 
tiiat  he  had  no  Boswell  in  attendance  to  note  down 
the  transient  sallies  of  his  social  hours — ^to  collect  and 
arrange  tiie  flying  squadron  of  his  brain? 

When  Croff s  Life  of  Dr.  Young  was  spoken  of 
as  a  good  imitation  of  Johnson's  style,  ^  No,  no,** 
said  he,  **  it  is  not  a  good  imitation  of  Johnson ;  it 
has  all  his  pomp  without  his  force ;  it  has  all  the 
nodosities  of  the  oak  without  its  strength ;  it  has  all 
the  contortions  of  the  Sybil  without  the  inspiration.** 
Speaking  of  the  new  sect  of  philosophers  of  1793, 
^  These  fellows,"  said  he,  **  have  a  wrong  twist  in 
their  heads,  which  ten  to  one  gives  them  a  wrong 
twist  in  their  hearts  also."' 

When  told  of  Mr.  Godwin's  definition  of  gratitude 
in  Political  Justice,  <^  I  should  take  care  to  spare  him 
the  commission  of  that  vice  by  never  conferring  upon 
him  a  favour."-— '^  Swaggering  paradoxes,*  he  added, 
^when  examined,  often  sneak  intopitiful  logomachies.** 

Of  reasoning  upon  political  theories,  he  observed, 
^  The  majors  make  a  pompous  figure  in  the  battle, 
but  the  victory  of  truth  depends  upon  the  littie 
minor  of  circumstances." 

When  a  present  of  wine  to  the  Literary  Club  was 


BIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BUBK]£*  417 

almost  expended,  he  playfully  observed^  '^  I  under- 
stand the  hogshead  of  claret  which  this  society  was 
fovoured  with  by  our  friend  the  Dean  (Barnard)  is 
nearly  out :  I  think  he  should  be  written  to,  to  send 
another  of  the  same  kind.  Let  the  request  be  made 
with  a  happy  ambiguity  of  expression,  so  that  we 
may  have  the  chance  of  his  sending  it  also  as  a  pre- 
sent." Dr.  Johnson  was  voted  secretary,  or  pun- 
ningly,  dictator  for  the  occasion.  **  Were  I  your 
dictator,"  said  the  moralist,  **  you  should  have  no 
wine.  It  would  be  my  business,  cavere  ne  quid  de* 
trimenti  Mespublica  caperet,  and  wine  is  dangerous. 
Rome  was  ruined  by  luxury." — ^^  If  you  allow  no 
wine  as  dictator,"  said  Biurke,  **  you  shall  not  have 
me  for  your  master  of  horse." 

Like  Johnson,  he  preferred  London  as  a  place  of 
constant  residence,  to  avoid  the  inquisitorial  remarks 
Gonunon  in  a  country  town.  Boswell  observes  on 
this,  **  Mr.  Burke,  whose  orderly  and  amiable  do- 
mestic habits  might  make  the  eye  of  observation 
less  irksome  to  him  than  to  most  men,  said  once 
very  pleasantly  in .  my  hearing,  *  Though  I  have 
the  honour  to  represent  Bristol,  I  should  not  like 
to  live  there ;  I  should  be  obliged  to  be  so  much 
upon  my  good  behaviour' " 

On  the  question  whether  a  man  would  live  his 
life  over  again  if  it  were  in  his  power,  he  used  a 
very  ingenious  argument.  ^^  Every  man  (said  he) 
would  live  his  life  over  again ;  for  every  '  man  is 
willing  to  go  on  and  take  an  addition  to  his  life, 
which,  as  he  grows  older,  he  has  no  reason  to  think 
will  be  better,  or  even  so  good  as  what  has  pre- 
ceded." 

VOL.  II.  2   E 


418  UF£  OF  THE 


He  had  a  rtry  poor  opinion  of  the  merits,  literuy 
or  moral,  of  the  ^^  Beggar's  Opera."  **  There  is  no* 
thing  exhibited  in  that  piece  (said  he)  which  a  cor- 
rect man  would  wish  to  see,  and  nothing  taught  in  it 
which  any  man  would  wish  to  learn." 

At  table  his  habits  were  temperate,  preferring  the 
Ugbter  to  the  stronger  wines,  in  opposition  to  John- 
son's gradation  of  liquors,  ^'  claret  for  boyiB,  port  fixr 
men,  brandy  for  heroes ; "  '*  then,"  said  he,  ^  giro 
me  claret,  for  I  like  to  be  a  boy  and  partake  of  the 
honest  hilarity  of  youth."  At  a  later  period  of  his 
life,  when  exhausted  by  mental  exertion  or  attacks 
of  indigestion  arising  from  close  application,  he  was 
accustomed  to  take  large  quantities  of  water  as  hot 
as  it  could  be  drunk;  ''warm  water,"  said  he, 
^  sickens,  but  hat  water  stimulates."  In  allusion 
partly  to  this  habit,  the  writer  of  a  piece  in  imita- 
tion of  *'  Retaliation,"  who  applies  the  different 
kinds  of  wine,  ais  Goldsmith  had  done  dishes,  to 
his  characters — as  port  to  Johnson,  champaign  to 
Garrick,  burgundy  to  Reynolds,  thus  says  of  the 
orator : 

To  Burke  a  pure  libatkm  faring. 

Fresh  drawn  from  pure  Castalian  spring ; 

With  dvic  oak  the  goblet  bind. 

Fit  emblem  of  his  patriot  mind ; 

Let  Clio  as  his  taster  sip. 

And  Hemes  hand  it  to  his  lip. 

An  amiable  feature  in  Mr.  Burke's  disposition 
was  a  dislike  to  any  thing  like  detraction,  or  that 
insinuation  against  private  character  too  often  tole- 
rated even  in  what  is  called  good  society,  which, 
without  amounting  to  slander,  produces  nearly  the 
same  effects.    When  this  occurred  in  his  own  house 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  419 

bjr  Boaf  one  with  whom  he  was  familiar,  he  would 
direcfly  check  it,  or  drop  a  hint  to  that  effect ; 
^  Now  that  jrou  have  b^un  with  his  defects,"  he- 
woidd  say,  ''  I  presmne  you  mean  to  finish  with  a 
catalc^e  of  his  virtues;'*  and  sometimes  said, 
though  mildly,  ^  censoriousness  is  allied  to  none  of 
the  virtues."  When  remarks  of  this  kind  were  in- 
Ixoduoed  by  others  whom  it  might  have  been  rude 
to  interrupt,  he  took  the  part  of  the  accused  by 
apologies^  or  by  urging  a  different  construction  of 
their  actions,  and,  as  soon  as  he  could,  changed  the 
subject ;  exemplifying  the  advice  he  once  familiarly, 
but  wisely,  gave  to  a  grave  and  anxious  acquaint- 
ance, who  was  giving  vent  to  some  querulous  la- 
mentations, **  Regard  not  trifles,  my  dear  Sir ;  live 
pleasantly." 

A  dispute  occurring  with  the  lord  of  the  manor  in 
which  his  property  at  Beaconsfield  was  situated, 
about  the  right  of  ownership  in  a  number  of  oak 
trees  which  stood  outside  of  his  park-paling,  it  was 
referred,  the  value  being  considerable,  to  the  de- 
cision of  a  comi;  of  law.  So  confident  was  his  ad- 
versary of  gaining  the  cause,  that  he  had  directed  the 
bell-ringers  to  be  in  readiness,  the  moment  the  news 
arrived,  to  celebrate  his  victory.  The  result,  how- 
ever, proved  directly  contrary  to  what  he  expected ; 
and  Mr.  Burke's  servants,  thinking  their  master  en- 
titled to  the  same  demonstration  of  village  joy, 
upon  his  suceess,  were  proceeding  to  express  it,  when 
hearing  what  was  going  on,  he  gave  peremptory 
orders  to  desist.-^^^  It  is  bad  enough  to  quarrel 
with  a  neighbour,"  said  he,  "  without  attempting 
to  triumph  over  him ; "  and  added,  when  the  in- 

2  £  2 


4S0  LIFE   OF   THE 

tendon  of  the  other  was  urged,  **  What  ke  mi^t 
have  done  is  of  no  consequence ; — it  is  necessary  to 
consider  what  /  ought  to  do." 

Johnson,  who  denied  him  scarcely  any  other  tal^tt 
or  merit,  would  not  admit  that  he  possessed  wit ;  he 
always  got  into  the  mire,  he  said,  by  attempting  it. 
Wilkes,  however,  who  certainly  was  no  mean  judge 
of  this  £aculty,  thought  differently ;  so  did  Boswell ; 
so  did  Mr.  Wiodham ;  so  did  Mr.  Courtenay,  him- 
self a  wit,  who  thus  commences  an  ode  addressed 
to  Mr.  Malone,  from  Bath — 

Whikt  you  illumine  Shakspeaie's  page» 
And  dare  the  future  critic's  rage. 

Or  on  the  past  refine ; 
Here  many  an  eve  I  pensive  sit^ 
No  Burke  pours  oui  the  stream  tfwit. 

No  Boswell  joys  o'er  wine. 

Dr.  Robertson,  the  historian,  maintained  he  had 
a  great  flow  of  wit,  as  his  surprising  allusions,  bril- 
liant sallies  of  vivacity,  and  novel  and  ingenious  con- 
ceits, exhibited  daily  in  his  conversation  and  speeches 
in  Parliament,  furnished  evidence.  Dr.  Beattie  en- 
tertained the  same  opinion.  Alluding  to  the  disin- 
clination of  Johnson  to  admit  the  possession  of  this 
talent  in  men  to  whom  the  world  generally  allowed 
it,  he  says,  in  one  of  his  letters,  "  Even  Lord  Ches- 
terfield, and  what  is  more  strange^  even  Mr.  Burke 
he  would  not  allow  to  have  wit."  Sir  Joshua  Rey- 
nolds likewise  agreed  in  the  opinion  of  his  fertility 
in  wit,  observing,  «  That  he  has  often  heard  Burke 
say  in  the  course  of  an  evening  ten  good  things,  each 
of  which  wou^d  have  served  a  noted  wit  (whom  he 
named)  to  live  upon  for  a  twelvemonth." 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURK£.  4Sl 

Nearly  the  same  opinion  was  entertained  and  ex- 
pressed hy  many  successive  Houses  of  Commons,  and 
more  especially  by  those  members,  and  they  were  no 
small  number,  who  smarted  under  its  lash — and 
among  whom  there  were  frequent  exclamations 
against  what  they  termed  **  the  wantonness  of  his 
wit  and  the  licentiousness  of  his  eloquence,'' — the 
former  a  quality  which,  as  an  auxiliary  in  debate, 
when  under  prudent  management,  and  subservient 
to  something  more  solid,  he  foimd  very  effective ; 
Lord  North  was  in  this  respect  his  only  competitor, 
and  Mr.  Sheridan  afterwards  his  only  superior. 
Mr.  Pitt,  when  he  had  no  more  effectual  answer  to 
give  to  his  keener  sallies,  which  was  not  unfrequently 
the  case  in  the  war  of  words  they  had  so  long  car- 
ried on,  used  to  term  them,  *^  the  overflowings  of 
a  mind,  the  richness  of  whose  wit  was  unchecked 
for  the  time  by  its  wisdom  ;"  and  an  able  anonjrmous 
writer,  during  the  American  war,  among  other  dis- 
tinguishing characteristics  of  his  mind,  particularly 
points  to  his  **  sarcastic  wit." 

For  Johnson's  remark,  however,  there  was  some 
foimdation  in  occasional  fits  of  punning,  to  which  he 
gave  way  round  the  social  table  among  intimate 
friends,  in  order,  as  he  said,  to  amuse  the  ladies ; 
and  these  were  sometimes  so  indifferent  as  to  draw 
down  smart  rallies  from  his  niece.  Miss  French,  with 
**  Really,  imcle,  that  is  very  poor."  **  There  now, 
you  have  quite  spoiled  it ;  we  expected  something 
better ; "  but  there  was  some  little  malicious  pleasure 
even  in  his  failures ;  for  the  less  credit  he  gained  by 
his  efforts,  the  more  he  was  accustomed  to  smile  at 
die  disappointment  of  those  who  were  in  expectation 


423  l^IFE   OF   THE 

of  hearing  something  very  fine.  This  punning  spi- 
rit majr  be  exemplified  bjr  the  following  conclusion 
of  a  note  to  Mrs.  Haviland,  in  allusion  to  the  mili- 
tary title  of  her  husband : — **  In  order  that  I  may 
turn  over  a  new  leaf  with  you,  in  wishing  you,  and 
all  with  you,  in  General^  and  in  particular,  a  thou* 
sand  and  one  happy  years — ^when  may  every  one  of 
them,  and  even  the  odd  one,  be  as  pleasant,  but  a 
little  more  real  than  the  Thousand  and  One  Arabian 
Entertainments !  This  we  all  cordially  wish.  Mrs. 
Balfour  is  well,  to  all  appearance,  of  all  rheumatism. 
May  you  all  be  well  of  all  complaints.  God  bless 
you.  Your's  ever,  my  dear  Madam,  Sirs,  young 
and  middle  aged — ^for  self,  wife,  and  son,  &c. 

"  Edmund  Bubke." 

His  main  strength  in  conversation,  however,  did 
not  lie,  like  Johnson's,  so  much  in  cutting  repartee, 
as  in  a  more  playful  cast  of  jocularity,  though  by  no 
means  destitute  of  pungency ;  sometimes  quaint  and 
humorous,  sometimes  coarse  enough,  frequently  of 
classical  origin  or  allusion,  as  several  of  the  spe- 
cimens preserved  by  Boswell  evince,  but  with* 
out  the  biting  severity  of  the  lexicographer  which 
he  characterized  on  one  occasion  very  pr<Hnptly  and 
happily  in  reply  to  Dr.  Robertson  the  historian,  who 
observing  that  Johnson's  rebukes  were  but  righteous 
oil  which  did  not  break  the  head ;  *^  Oil ! "  replied 
Mr.  Burke,  *•  oil  of  vitriol ! " 

When  his  friend  the  Rev.  Dr.  Marlay  was  ap- 
pointed to  the  Deanery  of  Ferns,  **  I  do  not  like  the 
name,"  said  he,  **  it  sounds  so  lik^  a  barren  title." 

Alluding  to  livings,  he  observed  that  Horace  had 


KIGHT  HON.  EOMUKD  EUBKE.  4S8 

a  good  one  in  vifiw,  in  speaking  €&-^£iit  modus  in 
rtbuB  sunt  cerH  deniqne  find ;  which  he  trawlated^ 
*^  a  modus  in  the  tjrthes  and  fines  certain.^ 

'When  some  one  inquired  whether  the  Isle  of  Man 
was  worth  a  journey  thither  to  see,  ^  By  all  means/' 
said  Mr.  Burke,  <*  the  proper  study  of  mankind  is 


» 


BosweU,  when  trying  to  give  a  definition  iA  man, 
called  him  a  cooking  animal ;  ^  Your  definition  is 
good/'  replied  Mr.  Bturke ;  <*  I  now  see  the  fliU 
force  of  the  common  proverb,  *  there  is  reason  in  the 
roasting  of  eggs.' " 

When  the  same  industrious  chronider  was  de» 
scrifaing  some  learned  ladies  assembled  around,  and 
vjring  in  attention  to  a  worthy  and  tall  firknd  of 
their's  (Johnson),  ''  Ay,"  said  Mr.  Burke,  <"  like 
maids  round  a  may-pole." 

In  allusion  to  the  chairing  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  he  ap* 
plied  to  it  Horace's  description  of  Pmdar's  numbersy 
**  Ftrtur  numeris  l^  sclmtis^  altering  tibe  second 
word  to  humeris;  he  (Wilkes)  is  carried  on  should 
ders  uncontrolled  hy  law. 

Conversing  with  a  young  gentleman  firom  Ireland 
of  better  birth  and  capadty  than  fortune,  who  waa 
venting  his  indignation  against  the  purse-proud  aiw 
rogance  of  some  Scotch  trader  who  had,  according 
to  his  account,  made  his  money  chiefly  by  dealing  in 
kdp,  and  who,  in  consequence  of  his  wealth,  looked 
down  with  affected  superiority  on  gentlemen  by 
birth  and  by  accomplishments,  ^  Aye,"  replied  Mr. 
Burke,  '*  he  thinks 


'  £t  genus  et  virtus  nisi  cum  n«  vilior  alga  est' 


it 


424  LIFE  OF  THE 

A  mudi  higher  feature  of  his  eharacter  than  wit, 
WHS  a  fervent  and  unfeigned  spirit  of  piety,  cheetfol 
but  humble,  unallied  to  any  thing  like  fanaticism,  and 
ecq>res8ive  of  a  deep  dependanoe  on  the  dispensatiixis 
of  Providence,  traces  of  which  are  to  be  found  in 
the  letters  of  his  boyhood ;  for  having  been  early, 
by  his  own  statement,  taught  to  study  the  sacred 
volume  with  reverence,  an  intimate  acquaintance 
with  its  lessons  and  phraseology  rested  on  his  mind, 
and  may  be  seen  ia  his  subsequimt  writings  aad 
iqieeches,  sometimes  to  a  fault.  In  the  great  trial 
of  his  fortitude,  the  loss  of  his  son,  the  most  affecting 
lamentations  are  accompanied  by  confessions  of  his 
weakness,  the  vanity  of  his  desires,  and,  whatever  he 
might  wish  or  think  to  the  contrary,  the  superior 
wisdom  of  the  Divine  decree,  in  disposing  of  him  as 
he  thought  proper.  He  preferred  the  Cbureh  of 
England  to  all  others,  as  on  the  whole  the  most  pure 
i^d  estimable ;  like  Johnson,  he  viewed  the  Roman 
Catholics  with  more  favour  than  many  others  were 
inclined  to  show  them ;  and  going  still  further  than 
him,  professed  strong  regard  for  the  dissenters,  from 
which,  if  he  ever  swerved  for  a  momoit,  it  was  in 
the  alarming  situation  of  the  country  in  1792,  when 
the  leaders  of  that  body  sunk  the  character  of  mU 
nisters  of  religion  in  that  of  a  violent  and  very 
questionable  order  of  politicians. 

His  moral  character  stood  wholly  unimpeadied 
by  any  thing  that  approached  to  the  name  of  vice. 
**  The  unspotted  innocence,  the  firm  int^^ty  of 
Burke,"  said  Dr.  Parr,  <*  want  no  emblazoning, 
and  if  he  is  accustomed  to  exact  a  rigorous  ac- 
count of  the  moral  conduct  of  others  {in  public 


RIGHT  HON  EDMXmD  BURKE.  435 


matters),  it  is  justified  in  one  wiio  shiins  not  Hie 
most  inquisitorial  scrutiny  into  his  own/'    Unlike 
some  of  his  greatest  contemporaries,  he  made  neither 
the  bottle  nor  the  dice  his  household  deities ;  he  had 
no  taste  for  pursuits  that  kill  time  rather  than  pass 
it;  ""  I  have  no  time,''  said  he,  << to  be  idle."    In  the 
country,  the  mornings,  often  at  an  early  hour,  were 
devoted  to  agricultural  pursuits,  with  a  26al  and  in- 
tell^noe  which  sopn  enabled  him  to  assume  and 
deserve  the  name  of  a  practical  farmer.    In  town 
they  were  usually  appropriated  to  study,  liteanary 
composition,  or  political  business,  bending  his  Way, 
m  the  afternoon,  to  the  House  of  Conunons,  whence 
he  returned  on  the  termination  of  business,  some- 
times, to  literary  society,  more  frequently  fatigued 
and  occasionally  fretted,  to  the  soothing  comforts  of 
his  own  fire-side.    **  No  wonder,"  said  he,  jocularly, 
on  some  occasions,  ^  that  my  friend  Charles  (Fox)  is 
so  often  more  vigorous  than  I  in  the  House,  for  when 
I  call  upon  him  in  my  way  thither,  jaded  by  the  oc- 
cupations of  the  day,  there  he  is,  just  out  of  bed, 
breakfasting  at  three  o'dodk,  fresh  and  unexhausted, 
for  the  contentions  of  the  evening." 

The  same  affectionate  disposition  which  Mr* 
Shackleton  remjEirked  in  the  boy,  continued  through 
li£e  in  the  domestic  relations  of  the  man ;  his  duties 
there  might  be  said,  in  a  peculiar  d^ree,  to  be  his 
pleasures ;  and  one  of  the  best  proofs  of  it  was  the 
cordial  attachment  and  unanimity  prevailing  in  a 
Uirge  family  connexion,  of  which  he  formed  flie 
centre.  He  never  forgot  an  old  friend  or  an  obli- 
gation, often  lamenting  that  his  short  tenure  of  power 
precluded  the  possibility  of  giving  them,  as  he  could 


486  LIFE  OF  THE 

have  Wished^  substantial  proofs  of  his  regard.  Hk 
philanthropy,  which  frequently  drew  praises  from 
his  political  antagonists^  was  often  appealed  to  by 
numerous  begging  letters,  sometimes  requiring  a 
large  portion  of  the  morning  to  peruse  and  to  an* 
swer ;  and  his  exertions  for  some  of  the  superior 
class  of  applicants,  such  as  literary  men  and  othen^ 
were  occasionally  repaid  with  gross  ingratitude.  His 
hospitality  was  always  greater  than  his  means^  and 
at  no  time  did  he  appear  to  more  advantage  than 
when  doing  the  honours  of  his  house  and  table. 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Crabbe,  who  was  wdl  acquaisoted 
with  him,  adds  his  testinumy  to  that  of  many  others 
— '^  Of  his  private  worth,  of  his  wishes  to  do  good ; 
of  his  affability  and  condescension ;  his  readiness  ta 
lend  assistance  where  he  knew  it  was  wanted ;  and 
his  delight  to  give  praise  where  he  thought  it  was 
deserved."  *'A11  know,"  continues  he,  ''that  his 
powers  were  vast,  his  acquirements  various,  and  I 
take  leave  to  add,  Ihat  he  applied  thein  with  unve- 
mitted  attention  to  those  objects  which  he  belkved 
tended  to  the  honour  and  welfare  of  his  country ; 
but  it  may  not  be  so  generally  understood  that  he 
was  very  assiduous  in  the  more  private  duties  of  a 
benevolent  nature ;  that  he  delighted  in  giving  ^i^ 
couragement  to  any  promise  of  ability,  and  assist- 
ance to  any  appearance  of  desert.  To  what  por* 
poses  he  employed  his  pen,  and  with  what  eloquenoe 
he  spake  in  the  senate,  will  be  told  by  many,  who 
yet  may  be  ignorant  of  the  solid  instruction  as  well 
as  the  fascinating  pleasantry  found  in  his  commoD 
conversation  among  his  friends ;  and  his  affectimiate 
manners,  amiable  disposition,  and  zeal  for  their  hap- 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  497 

piness,  whidi  he  nuuiifested  in  the  honrt  of  retii^ 
ment  with  his  family." 

Partaking  something  of  the  temperament  of  his 
country,  his  resentments  were  warm  and  open^ 
though  placahle,  but  the  instances  in  which  they 
were  exhibited  were  few  in  nimiber,  for,  during  a 
long  and  most  tempestuous  public  life,  he  conciliated 
the  esteem  of  his  chief  opponents,  nor  is  it  remem* 
bered  that  he  was  engaged  with  any  of  them  in  one 
hostile  personal  squabble.  It  has  been  said,  with 
gross  perversion  of  the  truth,  that  he  bore  ill-will 
toward  Mr.  Fox  after  their  quarrel.  So  far  is  tiiia 
from  being  the  case,  that  though  freely  condemning 
his  politics,  he  spoke  of  him  otherwise  among  hk 
private  friends  with  affection,  by  saying,  ^  he  was  a 
man  made  to  be  loved ;  there  was  not  a  partide  at 
gall  in  his  composition ;"  and  it  has  been  shewn  tltet 
the  nature  of  his  politics  alone  prevented  a  renewal 
of  as  cordial  a  friendship  as  had  ever  existed  between 
them.  He  valued  himself,  he  said,  for  the  regat^ 
that  gentleman  had  once  professed  for  him,  and  felt 
proportional  regret  on  its  cessation. 

It  may  be  true,  perhaps,  that  he  occasionally  gave 
way  to  starts  of  irritability,  but  these  were  so  tran- 
sient as  to  be  scarcely  exhibited  before  they  were 
subdued.  A  single  instance  of  this  kind  occurring' 
in  public  is  commonly  sufficient  to  fix  the  charge  per«> 
petually  on  him  who  displays  it.  Such  was  the  case 
with  Mr.  Burke.  Many  stories  are  therefore  told  of 
him  which  are  wholly  imtrue,  and  those  that  possess 
a  shade  of  truth  are  much  exaggerated.  The  fol- 
lowing, which  has  been  lately  afloat  in  the  maga- 
zines and  newspapers,  may  be  taken  as  a  sample  >-* 


4S8  LIFB  OF  THE 

**Tlie  irritability  of  Burke  is  wdl  known,  and 
was  strongly  exemplified  on  many   occasions   in 
Hastings's  impeachment,  in  his  conduct  not  only 
towards  his  <^iponents,  but  also  towards  his  col- 
leagues.   On  one  occasion,    Mr.  Midiael   Angelo 
Taylor  had  nearly  fallen  a  victim  to  this  infirmity. 
Burke  had  put  a  question,  the  only  one,  it  is  said, 
which  he  had  ever  put  that  was  unexceptionable, 
both  in  substance  and  in  form.    Mr.  Law,  the  late 
Lord  Ellenborough,  one  of  Hastings's  counsel,  ob« 
jected  to  it,  and  was  stating  the  grounds  of  his  ob- 
jection, when,  perceiving  Mr.  M.  A.  Taylor  entering 
the  manager's  box,  he  congratulated  the  House  that 
the  candour  and  legal  experience  of  the  learned  ma- 
nager, meaning  Mr.  Taylor,  would  at  once  induce  him 
to  admit  that  such  a  question  could  not  be  put  con- 
sistently with  those  rules  of  evidence  with  which  his 
learned  friend  was  so  eminently  conversant.    Upon 
which,    Mr.  Taylor,  who  had  never  before  been 
so  respectfuUy  referred  to  as  an  authority,  (and  who 
was  worked  upon  like  the  crow  in  the  fable,  com- 
plimented on  his  singing),  coming  forward,  requested 
the  learned  counsel  to  restate  the  question,  whidi 
Mr.  Law  having  done,  Mr.  T.  instantly  observed 
that  it  was  impossible  to  contend  that  it  was  ad- 
missible.    On  this,   Mr.  Burke,  forgetting  every 
thing  but  his  question,  seized  Mr.  Taylor  by  the 
collar,  exclaiming,  '  You  little  villain !  put  him  in 
irons,  put  him  in  irons  P  dragged  him  down,  and 
bad  almost  succeeded  in  throttling  him,  when  Mr. 
Fox  came  in  to  his  rescue.     The  scene  is  by  no  one 
more  {deasantly  described  than  by  Mr.  Michael  An- 
gelo .  Taylor  himself." 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  4£9 

To  analyze  critically  the  truth  of  this  story,  made 
up,  probably,  to  divert  a  dinner  company,  or  coined, 
perhaps,  by  one  of  those  ingenious  gentlemen  who 
is  asked  to  dinner  for  the  sake  of  his  stories,  may 
be  akin  to  that  misapplication  of  labour,  which 
would  ^  break  a  butterfly  on  the  wheel.''  fiut  as 
there  are  in  it  some  pretensions  to  authenticity,  a 
few  words  may  settle  that  matter  with  the  reader. 

We  are,  in  the  first  place,  told  that  Mr.  M.  A. 
Taylor  had  nearly  Jhllen  a  victim  to  this  alleged  in« 
firmity  of  Burke,  which,  in  other  words,  means  that 
the  latter,  not  having  the  fear  of  God  or  of  the  Peers 
before  his  eyes,  was  on  the  point  of  committing  mur- 
der, or  manslaughter,  in  Westminster  Hall.  This, 
indeed,  looking  to  the  light  way  in  which  the  matter 
is  treated,  may  only  be  an  attempt  by  the  ingenious 
author  at  that  strikiBg  figure  of  speedi  termed  hyper, 
bole ;  and  considering  that  the  provocation  to  this 
violence  was  so  heinous,  and  that  the  nobility  of  the 
land,  the  judges,  lawyers,  and  spectators  were  silent 
witnesses  of  it,  this  rhetorical  effort  at  accurate 
description  must  be  considered  as  very  happily 
judged. 

We  next  learn  that  the  question  put  by  this  elo- 
quent almost-homidde,  was  unexceptionable ;  but 
tiien  it  is  insinuated,  with  equal  gravity,  and  no 
doubt  correctness,  that  it  was  the  only  one  among 
innumerable  questions  that  was  so.  Yet,  even  to  this 
unexcq)tionable  among  the  exceptionables,  the  law- 
yer objects.  Whether  this  ingenious  and  vigorous 
satire  be  directed  against  Mr.  Burke  or  Mr.  Law^ 
the  reader  will  at  once  detect  its  accuracy  and  point. 

Mr.  Taylor  is  then  introduced  upon  the  scene  ftr 


490  LIFE  OF  THE 

the  bvKHHrous  pnrpoee,  (putting  the  contenqptiious 
siniile  of  the  crow  out  of  the  question)  of  making 
hintfidf  appear 

«■  A  tool 

^Tbat  knaves  do  work  wiUij  call'd  a  fooL" 

This  is  a  partiadarly  happy  hit  of  the  author  of  the 
9iorff  conBidering  that  he  makes  Mr.  Taylor  himsdf 
the  narrator  of  his  own  vanity  and  folly. 

WoT^e,  still  worse,  remains  bdiind.  Poor  Mr. 
Taylor  is  no  soona:  r^nresented  as  flattered  into  an 
absurdity  by  Mr.  Law,  than  he  is  ludicrously  fig;ured 
to  us  as  bttfietted  (we  presume  out  of  it)  by  Mr. 
Bmke ;  he  is  sdsed  by  the  throat^— <uilled  <*  a  litHe 
villain" — dragged  about — almost  strangled^  and, 
finally,  rescued  by  Mr.  Fox :  but  in  what  light  poor 
Mr.  Taylor  viewed  this  novel  spedes  of  persuasion 
from  the  great  orator  of  the  nge,  or  wheth^  he  re- 
sented it»  does  not  appear.  No  doubt,  if  this  story- 
tdl^  be  believed,  he  considered  it  as  a  capital  joke; 
and  his  taste  in  this  way  not  being  fastidious,  and 
his  resentments  not  strong,  he  continued  to  f(^w 
the  traiii  of  his  leader,  in  the  ezjiectation,  perimps, 
of  experiencing  a  few  more  such  practical  jokes,  for 
the  pleasure  of  retailing  them  to  his  friends.  How  the 
offimded  dignity  of  the  Peers  rdished  this  joke,  is 
likewise  left  to  conjecture.  We  must  suj^poae  that 
their  lordships  were  asleep ;  the  judges  deeply  occu- 
]|^ed  in  consultation ;  the  lawyers  turned  aside  from 
looking  at  the  managers  to  the  perusal  of  their 
-papem ;  the  historian  of  the  trial  asleep ;  and  the 
eyectaters  all  blinded  by  the  dust  raised  by  the  scuffle 
•~for  none  of  th^oi  heard  or  saw  anything  of  this 
Mw  display  of  manual  liietoric 


EIGHT  RON.  BDMUND  BUBKE.  431 

Not  cne  of  ike  least  merits  of  Mr.  Burke  was  in 
being  so  perfectly  free  from  any  thing  like  envy  or 
jealousy  of  contemporary  talent,  as  often  to  surrender 
to  others  during  the  first  sixteen  years  of  his  Par- 
liamentary life,  the  reputation  of  constitutional  mea« 
sures,  which  he  not  only  suggested,  but  chi^y 
achieved.  The  Nullum  Tempus  act,  the  Jury  bill» 
the  first  relief  to  the  roman  catholics,  and  many 
others,  were  of  this  dass.  It  may  appear  strange, 
or  a  very  lumsual  effort  of  generosity,  that  any  public 
man  who  had  to  work  up-hill  every  step  of  his  way  to 
eminence  should  do  this  to  a  certain  degree  in  his  own 
wrong  by  withholding  from  himself  to  bestow  upon 
others  that  which  was  calculated  to  ensure  honest  and 
undisputed  fame ;  but  the  fact  was  he  always  looked  to 
the  success  of  his  party,  while  other's  regarded  that 
which  was  chiefly  personal  to  themselves.  He  al- 
ludes, with  evident  satisfaction,  to  this  liberality  of 
spirit  in  the  retrospect  of  his  political  career  con- 
tained in  the  Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord.  In  speaking 
of  the  popularity  and  lead  he  had  acquired  in  the 
troubled  period,  from  1780  to  1782,  ^'  when  wild 
and  savage  insurrection  quitted  the  woods,  and 
prowled  about  our  streets  in  the  name  of  reform  ;*' 
he  %ayB— 

*^  1  know  well  enough  how  equivocal  a  test  this 
kind  of  popular  opinion  forms  of  the  merit  that  ob- 
tained it.  I  am  no  stranger  to  the  insecurity  of  its 
tenure.  I  do  not  boast  of  it.  It  is  mentioned  to 
show  not  how  highly  I  prize  the  thing,  but  my  right 
to  value  the  use  I  made  of  it.  I  endeavoured  to 
turn  that  short-lived  advantage  to  myself  into  a  per- 
manent benefit  to  my  country. 

^^  Far  am  I  from  detracting  from  the  merit  of 


4S2  LIFE  OF  THE 

some  genfleman,  out  of  office,  or  in  it,  on  timt  ooca- 
fiion.  No ! — ^It  is  not  my  wish  to  refuse  a  fiill  and 
heaped  measure  of  justice  to  the  aids  that  I  receive. 
I  have,  through  life,  been  willing  to  give  every  thing 
to  others,  and  to  reserve  nothing  for  myself  but  the 
inward  conscience  that  I  had  omitted  no  paim  to 
discover,  to  animate,  to  discipline,  to  direct  the  abili- 
ties of  the  country  for  its  service,  and  to  place  them 
in  the  best  light  to  improve  their  age,  or  to  adorn  it ; 
•*-4his  conscience  I  have.  I  have  never  suppressed 
any  man ;  never  checked  him  for  a  moment  in  his 
course  by  any  jealousy,  or  by  any  policy.  I  was 
always  ready  to  the  height  of  my  means,  (and  they 
were  always  infinitely  below  my  desires)  to  forward 
those  abilities  which  overpowered  my  own : — he  is 
an  ill-furnished  undertaker  who  has  no  machineiy 
but  his  own  hands  to  work  with.'' 

The;  allusions  to  Mr.  Fox,  in  this  passage,  are  ob- 
vious ;  and  to  this  discipline,  teaching,  and  prompts- 
ing  there  is  no  question  but  he  owed  much  of  his 
fame :  he  himself  had  the  candour  to  acknowledge, 
on  four  different  occasions,  in  the  House  of  (Com- 
mons, that  to  these  he  owed  nearly  it  all. 

The  greatest  defect  of  Mr.  Burke  approached  so 
near  to  what  is  often  a  virtue,  that  it  is  sometimes 
difficult  to  draw  the  Une  between  them.  It  was  a 
heat,  or  ardour  of  temperament,  which,  by  meeting 
with  much  opposition  in  pursuing  a  measure  that  he 
had  once  satisfied  himself  was  right,  sometimes  be- 
came zeal,  sometimes  irritability,  sometimes  obsti- 
nacy, sometimes  passion,  in  its  support.  '<  Exquisite 
powers,"  writes  Lord  Buchan,  in  a  Letter  to  Bo- 
nomi  the  artist,  in  allusion  to  this  characteristic  of 
Mr.  Burke,  '*  has  its  root  in  exquisite  sensibility.** 


RIGHT   HOK.  EDMUND   BURKE.  488 

And  this  peeujinr  8en«fitite&es8  of  gemtxs  has  been 
m  oftto  ntoMBL  one  of  its  marked  features,  that  per^- 
lia^  we  are  scarcely  at  liberty  to  lament  what  «p^ 
peax^  to  possess  some  oceult  eoiKnexion  with  its  rery 
excelleaoe.  Frequent  observation  proves,  thaft  soihe 
of  the  strongest  minds  are  under  the  dominion  of 
very  powerful  feelings  and  passions,  and  by  the  sti- 
mnlmr  whidi  these  supply  to  Ihe  r^ason^  enflible  it 
Co  fioeomplish  much  which  ininds  equally  greflt,  wMh- 
ont  such  strong  excitements,  would  be  unable  or  afhdd 
to  attempt.  Thus,  the  mild  spirit  of  Melancthon  nevet 
cdtild  have  done  the  Woilc  of  Luther,  Calvin,  or  Knox. 
Thus  Mr.  Fox,  or  Mr.  Pitt,  in  all  probability,  could 
not  have  excited  the  public  mind  on  the  American 
war  as  Mr.  Burke  by  the  variety  of  his  powers  and 
passions  exdted  it.  It  is  almost  (Certain  that  they 
could  never  have  rendered  popular  the  trial  of  Mr. 
Hastily,  as  was  done  at  least  for  a  time  by  him : 
l€  is  unquestionable  that  it  was  not  within  the  range 
fxf  <!be  powers  of  either,  singly,  to  influence  the  nation 
as  lie  iikftuenced  it  on  the  question  of  theFrench  Revo- 
lution. Men  constituted  as  he  was,  uniting  extraordi- 
nary flcquiremaits  with  invincible  2eal,  perseverance, 
and  genius^are  peculiai^y  cut  out  by  nature  for  import- 
ant and  trying  exigencies.  He  has  a  remark  himself 
somewhere,  that  **  a  Vigorous  mind  is  as  nec^sarrly 
accompanied  with  violent  passions  as  a  great  fire  wUsh 
great  heat."  ^'  Strong  pa8sion,''said  he,at  another  time, 
and  the  observation  displays  mudi  knowledge  of  chii- 
racler,  *^  under  the  direction  of  a  feeble  reason  feeds  a 
low  fever,  which  serves  only  to  destroy  the  body 
that  entertains  it.  But  vehement  passion  does  not 
always  indicate  an  infirm  judgment.  It  often  accom- 
VOL.  II.  2f 


484  LIFE  OF  THE 

ponies,  and  actuates,  and  is  even  auxiliary  to  a 
powerful  understanding ;  and  when  they  both  con- 
spire and  act  harmoniously,  their  force  is  great  to 
destroy  disorder  within  and  to  repel  injury  from 
abroad"  ''  No  revolution  (in  public  sentiment), 
dvil  or  religious,"  says  Sir  Gilbert  Elliott,  writing  in 
1758  to  the  historian  Dr.  Robertson,  ^*  can  be  accom- 
plished without  that  degree  of  ardour  and  passion 
which  in  a  later  age  will  be  matter  of  ridicule  to  m^i 
who  do  not  feel  the  occasion,  and  enter  into  the 
spirit  of  the  times." 

Useful  as  this  peculiar  frame  of  mind  is — rand 
nothing  great  was  ever  accomplished  without  it — it 
is  frequently  prejudicial  when  carried  into  the  dis- 
cussion of  ordinary  affairs,  or  the  common  routine 
of  opposition  in  the  House  of  Commons,  as  Mr. 
Burke  himself  now  and  then  experienced.  It  some- 
times led  him  to  express  undue  warmth  and  posi- 
tiveness  in  matters  of  inferior  moment,  and  by 
seeming  to  master  his  temper,  was  also  believed  by 
those  who  did  not  know  him  well,  to  interfere  with 
the  due  exercise  of  his  judgment.  To  many  who 
neither  saw  so  far  nor  so  clearly  into  the  tendency 
of  measures  as  himself,  it  had  the  appearance  of 
arrogance ;  to  many,  of  dictation,  obstinacy,  or  in- 
tractability. It  gave  rise  not  unfrequently  to  illi- 
beral surmises  that  he  must  have  some  personal 
interest  in  matters  which  he  urged  with  so  much 
heat  and  pertinacity ;  and  impaired  the  effect  of  his 
eloquence  on  the  opposite  benches  of  the  body  whom 
he  had  to  address,  by  an  opinion,  however  nn^ 
founded,  that  his  views  at  times  sprang  from  mo- 
mentary passion  or  impulse  rather  than  from  mature 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMCTND  BUBKE.  485 

deliberation.  Convinced  in  his  own  mind  of  beii^ 
right,  he  was  somewhat  impatient  of  not  being  aUe 
to  convince  others  equally  soon ;  he  did  not  perhaps 
make  sufficient  allowance  for  inferior  understand- 
ings, for  duller  apprehensions,  for  more  defective 
information ;  or  always  consider  that  as  even  ob* 
vious  moral  truths  are  of  slow  prc^fress  among  the 
mass  of  mankind,  so  political  truth,  as  involving  a 
greater  variety  of  interests,  is  received  with  still 
more  caution,  particularly  from  those  who  happen 
not  to  possess  political  power,  and  who  are  therefore 
suspected  of  aiming  only  to  acquire  it.  He  was 
early  informed  of  this  peculiarity  in  his  public  tem- 
perament, and  expresses  an  intention  to  amend  it  so 
fiEur  back  as  1777 :  the  passage,  which  is  remarkable 
for  advising  Mr.  Fox  to  beware  of  the  same  error, 
is  contained  in  the  letter  written  to  him  in  Ireland 
— **  I  remember  some  years  ago  when  I  was  pressing 
some  points  with  great  eagerness  and  anxiety,  and 
complaining  with  great  vexation  to  the  Duke  of 
Richmond  of  the  little  progress  I  made,  he  told  me 
kindly,  and  I  believe  very  truly,  that  though  he  was 
far  from  thinking  so  himself,  other  people  could  not 
be  persuaded  I  had  not  some  latent  private  interest 
in  pushing  these  matters,  which  I  urged  with  an- 
eamestness  so  extreme  and  so  much  approaching  to 
passion.  He  was  certainly  in  the  right.  I  am  tho- 
roughly resolved  to.  give  both  to  myself  and  to  my 
friends  less  vexation  on  these  subjects  than  hitherto 
I  have  done ; — ^much  less  indeed.  If  you  should 
grow  too  earnest,  you  will  be  stiU  more  inexcusable 
than  I  was.  Your  having  entered  into  affairs  so 
much  younger  ought  to  make  them  too  familiar  to 

2  F  2 


4S6  LIFK   OF   THE 

yaw  to  be  the  cause  of  much  agitation."^    Od  ane4&«p 
oeeafiion  he  adrerted  in  the  House  to  this  dis^ 
tineCioii  of  character — ^  an  earnest  and  aaidons  per-* 
severance  of  mind  which  with  aU  ite  good  and  aU 
itB  evil  effects  is  moulded  into  my  nature."    In  pri- 
vate V£e  it  was  never  offensive  and  rardy  observabte, 
except  when  employed  in  pushing  the  interests  of 
his  firiends  or  in  the  duties  of  humanity  and  charity. 
In  examining  a  few  of  the  more  marked  features 
tf  his  mind,  th^re  will  be  found  belonging  to  him 
peculiarities  almost  contradictory  in  their  nature; 
qualities  which,  if  not  inconsistent  with  each  other^ 
have  been  so  rarely  conjoined  in  the  same  person  as 
to  be    thought   inconsistent.    Some  of  the    most 
striking  are,  a  variety  in  his  powers  almost  un- 
bounded, a  brilliancy  which  imposes  upon  the  ima^ 
gination,  a  soli<Mty  which  convinces  the  judgm^it, 
a  femcy  singularly  excursive  in  pursuit  of  striking 
and  afluring  figures,  and  which  may  be  termed  the 
presents  of  genius  to  the  service  of  persuasion  and 
truth,  and  a  wisdom  which  when  employed  in  the 
affairs  of  mankind  was  rigidly  pinned  down  to  the 
plain  and  straight-forward,   and  that  which   was 
founded  upon  experience  and  practice.     This  is  so 
unusual  a  combination  that  perhaps  another  instance 
is  not  to  be  found.     He  not  merely  excelled  all  his 
contemporaries  in  the  number  of  his  powers,  but 
some  in  the  peculiar  excellence  •belonging  to  each  ; 
as  for  instance,  we  find  him  a  tolerable  poet  even 
while  a  boy,  a  penetrating  philosopher,  an  acute 
criljic,    and   a  judicious    historian   when    a  very 
young  man ;  a  judge  of  the  fine  arts,  whose  opinions 
even  Reynolds  valued,  a  political  economist  when 


RIGHT  HON.  BDMUND  BURKE.  487 


the  sctence  was  scarcely  knowa  in  tfaiii  country^  ot 
kaowp  to  very  few»  a  statesman  often  pionounced 
one  of  the  wisest  that  ever  adorned  our  country,  an 
orator  second  to  none  of  any  age,  a  writer  of  extra- 
ordinary powers  on  every  subject,  and  on  politics 
the  first  for  depth  and  eloquence  in  our  language ; 
and  in  addition  to  these,  possessed  of  a  vast^  and 
multifarious  stwe  of  knowledge  of  which  all  who 
had  any  intercourse  with  him,  whether  friend  or 
oppon^it,  haye  spoken  in  terms  of  strong  admiration 
and  surprise.  Like  the  celdiirated  Berkeley,  Bishop 
of  Cioyne,  whose  philosophy  regarding  matter  he 
had  once  set  himself  the  task  to  refute,  there  was 
nothing  useful  of  which  he  could  be  said  to  be 
ignorant. 

The  testimony  borne  to  his  tal^its  and  acquire- 
ments during  so  many  years  by  Dr.  Johnson,  a  few 
of  which  have  been  repeated  in  this  work,  and  more 
are  to  be  found  in  Boswell's  amusing  volumes,  would 
alone  stamp  the  fame  of  any  man.  Even  while 
travelling-  in  the  Hebrides  this  favourite  topic  of  the 
great  moralist  was  not  forgotten :  <^  I  do  not,"  said 
he  to  Boswdil,  alluding  to  what  he  considered  in- 
ferior minds  who  had  acquired  a  lead  they  did  not 
deserve  in  public  affairs,  '*  grudge  Burke  being  the 
first  man  in  the  House  of  Commons,  for  he  is  the 
first  man  everywhere." 

Lord  Thurlow,  after  so  many  years  o£  political 
bickerings,  and  whose  judgment  in  consequence  was 
not  likely  to  be  biassed  by  undue  partiality,  spoke  a 
language  not  less  strong,  when  in  a  private  company 
where  there  was  some  allusion  to  the  comparative 
merits  of  the  three  great  orators  and  statesmen  of 


488  lAtB  OF  THE 

the  age,  he  obBerved^ — **  The  name  of  Burfce  will  be 
remembered  with  admiration,  when  those  of  Pitt 
and  Fox  will  be  comparatively  forgotten.** 

The  celebrated  Mirabeau  was  known  to  speak  of 
him  more  than  once  with  great  applause,  and  what 
was  more  singular,  delivered  in  the  National  As- 
sembly on  several  occasions  large  passages,  with 
some  trivial  alterations  from  the  printed  speeches 
and  writings  of  Mr.  Burke,  as  his  own;  on  being 
reproached  with  this  once,  he  admitted  the  fact; 
apologising  for  it  by  saying  that  he  had  not  had 
time  to  arrange  his  own  thoughts  on  some  of  the 
many  topics  he  was  obliged  to  discuss,  and  that  in 
no  other  productions  could  he  find  such  an  union  of 
argument  and  eloquence. 

As  coming  from  the  pen  of  the  scarcely  less  cele- 
brated opponent  of  Mirabeau,  the  following  pos- 
sesses much  interest ;  it  was  at  first  attributed  to 
Peltier,  but  was  really  written  by  M.  Cazales; — 
*^  Died  at  his  house  at  Beaconsfield,  with  that  simple 
dignity,  that  unostentatious  magnanimity  so  con- 
sonant to  the  tenour  of  his  life  and  actions,  the  Right 
Honourable  Edmimd  Burke.  There  never  was  a 
more  beautiful  alliance  between  virtue  and  talents. 
All  his  conceptions  were  grand,  all  his  sentiments 
generous.  The  great  leading  trait  of  his  character, 
and  that  which  gave  it  all  its  energy  and  its  colour^ 
was  that  strong  hatred  of  vice  which  is  no  other  than 
the  passionate  love  of  virtue.  It  breathes  in  all  his 
writings ;  it  was  the  guide  of  all  his  actions.  But 
even  the  force  of  hM  eloquence  was  insufficient  to 
transfuse  it  into  the  weaker  or  perverted  minds  of 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  4S9 

his  contemporaries.  This  has  caused  much  of  thie 
miseries  of  Europe ;  this  has  rendered  of  no  effect 
towards  her  salvation  the  sublimest  talents,  the 
greatest  and  rarest  virtues  that  the  beneficence  of 
Providence  ever  concentred  in  a  single  character 
for  the  benefit  of  mankind. .  But  Mr.  Burke  was  too 
superior  to  the  age  in  which  he  lived.  His  pro- 
phetic genius  only  astonished  the  nation  which  it 
ought  to  have  governed." 

Mr.  Windham,  who  was  his  devoted  friend  and 
admirer,  often  expressed  similar  sentiments,  and  in 
the  same  spirit  as  the  concluding  sentence  of  the 
preceding  passage,  wrote  Tin  a  private  letter  about 
this  time,  what  as  a  Minister  it  would  not  perhaps 
have  been  quite  so  decorous  towards  his  co-adjutors 
to  say  in  public :  **  I  do  not  reckon  it  amongst  the 
least  calamities  of  the  times,  certainly  not  among 
those  that  affect  me  least,  that  the  world  has  now 
lost  Mr.  Burke.  .  Oh !  how  much  may  we  rue  that 
his  councils  were  not  followed !  Oh  !  how  exactly  do 
we  see  verified  all  that  he  has  predicted." 

On  the  first  allusion  to  the  French  Revolution  in 
1790,  Mr.  Fox  said  that  **  his  reverence  for  the 
judgment  of  his  right  honourable  friend  was  un- 
feigned ;  for  that  if  he  were  to  put  all  the  political 
information  he  had  gained  from  books,  all  that  he 
had  learned  from  science,  and  all  that  the  know- 
ledge of  the  world  and  its  affairs  had  taught  him, 
into  one  great  sicale,  and  the  improvement  he  had 
derived  from  the  conversation  and  instruction  of  his 
right  honourable  friend  in  the  other,  the  latter  would 
preponderate."    Some  time  afterwards  he  repeated 


440  LIFE  OF   T0E 

diat  ^  from  him  he  had  learned  ^e$|rl]r  all  }m  poH- 
tical  knowledge."  At  the  moment  (4  their  dimiuoii 
he  observed,  ^*  that  however  th^  might  difii^r  on 
present  matters,  he  must  still  loc^  to  his  boqouiiible 
friend  as  his  master;"  adding  upon  the  same  oc- 
casion, **  He  m^st  again  repeat  that  all  he  ^ver 
knew  of  men,  that  all  he  ever  read  in  bpokp,  that 
all  his  reasoning  faculties  informed  him  €i,  or  hia 
fancy  suggested  to  him,  did  not  impart  that  exalted 
knowledge,  that  superior  information,  which  he  had 
acquired  from  the  lessons  of  his  right  honooral^e 
friend.  To  him  he  owed  all  his  fame,  if  fame  he 
had  any.  And  if  he  (Mr.  Fox)  should  now  or  at 
any  time  prevail  over  him  in  discussion,  he  coold 
admowledge  his  gratitude  for  the  capability  and 
pride  of  the  conquest  in  telling  him — 

'  Hoc  ipsum  quod  vindt  id  est  tuum.'" 

At  the  moment  of  proposing  his  interment  m 
Westminster  Abbey,  he  again  repeated  the  same 
acknowledgments  in  terms  which,  in  the  words  of 
a  Member  in  attendance,  **  drew  tears  from  every 
one  present  who  had  any  feelings  at  all,  or  coulcl 
sympathize  in  the  excellence  of  tiie  great  genius 
then  before  them,  or  with  the  still  greater  exoellaacQ 
of  the  genius  who  had  departed." 

When  some  one  expressed  an  opinion  that  Burke 
wais  sometimes  only  a  sophist,  though  an  extraorr 
dinarily  eloquent  one»  Mr.  Fox  is  said  to  have  im^ 
mediately  remarked,  that  he  entertained  a  very 
different  opinion.  ^'  The  eloquence  of  Mr.  Burke^** 
continued  he,  **  is  not  the  greatest  of  his  powers  2  it 
is  often  a  veil  over  his  wisdom  :  moderate  his  more 


RIGHT  ]9K>N.   l^DMUNP  BUBKE.  4M 

veti«iamt  sallkfs,  l9wm^  his  laqgaage,  wiUidraw 
bis  imsLg^ry,  and  you  will  find  that  he  is  more  wise 
tilmn  doqu^t:  you  will  have  your  full  weight 
of  the  m0tfd,  though  you  should  melt  down  the 
cjbssing." 

<<  Biirke»"  sidd  Mr.  Gerard  Hamilton  {whom  Mr. 
Grattan  pronounced  a  great  judge  af  men  aiftd  thij^), 
nt  the  period  of  their  greatest  coolness,  "  understands 
every  thing  but  gaming  imd  music.  In  the  Houee 
of  Commons  I  sometimes  think  him  only  the  second 
man  in  Bngland ;  out  of  it  he  is  always  the  fiiM.'' 

The  unknown  author  of  the  ^  Pursuits  of  Litera*- 
ture/  who  seems  to  have  no  oth  w  point  of  agreement 
with  Dr.  Parr*  agrees  with  him  at  least  in  rapturous 
eulogy  of  Mr.  Burke,  scattered  through  a  variety  of 
passages  of  his  work,  in  verse  and  in  prose»  in 
Greek,  in  Latin,  in  English,  and  all  al  them  in  no 
ordinary  terms,  '  First  in  the  East/  <  Regent  of 
Day,'  '  Luminary  of  Europe,'  *  great  and  un^uaUed 
man,'  **  who  opened  the  eyes  of  the  whole  nation  to 
the  systems  of  internal  destruction  and  irreversible 
misery  which  awaited  it,  and  who  only  displayed 
tiiem  to  confound  and  wither  them  by  his  powers," 
applying  to  him  the  praise  of  Paterculus  to 
Cicero — 

"  Animo  vidit,  ingenio  complexus  est,  eloquentia  iUnminavit.* 

^<  Let  me,"  says  Dr.  Parr,  ''  speak  what  my  mind 
prompts  of  the  eloquence  of  Burke*— of  Burke,  by 
whose  sweetness  Athens  herself  would  have  been 
soothed,  with  whose  amplitude  and  exuberance  she 
would  have  been  enraptured,  and  on  whose  lips  that 
prolific  mother  of  genius  and  science  would  have 


442  LIFK  OF  TH£ 

adored,  confesfled,  the  Goddess  of  Persnasioii.* 
*'  Who  is  there,"  adds  the  same  learned  critic, 
**  among  men  of  eloquence  or  learning  more  pro- 
foundljr  versed  in  every  branch  of  science  ?  Who  is 
there  that  has  cultivated  philosophy,  the  parent  <^ 
aU  that  is  illustrious  in  literature,  or  exploit,  with 
more  felicitous  success?  Who  is  there  that  can 
transfer  so  happily  the  result  of  laborious  and  intri- 
cate research  to  the  most  familiar  and  popular  topics? 
Who  is  there  that  possesses  so  extensive  yet  so  ac- 
curate an  acquaintance  with  every  transaction  recent 
or  remote  ?  Who  is  there  that  can  deviate  from  his 
subject  for  the  purposes  of  delight  with  such  en- 
gaging ease,  and  insensibly  conduct  his  readers  from 
the  severity  of  reasoning  to  the  festivity  of  wit  ? 
Mlio  is  there  that  can  melt  them  if  the  occasion 
requires  with  such  resistless  power  to  grief  or  pity  ? 
Who  is  there  that  combines  the  charm  of  inimitable 
grace  and  urbanity  with  such  magnificent  and  bound- 
less expansion  ?" 

Mr.  Curwen,  whose  political  opinions  have  been 
already  noticed,  thus  writes  of  him  on  viewing^ 
Ballitore,  the  scene  of  his  early  ^U^uisitions  in  know- 
le()ge.  ^*  The  admiration,  nay  astonishm^it,  with 
which  I  so  often  listened  to  Mr.  Burke  gave  an  in- 
terest  to  every  spot  connected  with  his  memory,  and 
forcibly  brought  to  my  recollection  the  profundity 
and  extent  of  his  knowledge,  while  the  eneigy, 
warmth,  and  beauty  of  his  imagery  captured  the 
heart  and  made  the  judgment  tributary  to  his  will. 
As  an  orator  he  surpassed  all  his  contemporaries, 
and  was  perhaps  never  exceeded." 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BUBKE.  448 

• 

Another  Parliamentary  contemporary  and  sup- 
porter previous  to  the  French  Revolution,  but  who 
was  so  incurably  bitten  by  that  event  that  he  has 
never  since  recovered  a  sober  understanding,  ac- 
knowledges amidst  several  gross  misrepresentations, 
^*  The  political  knowledge  of  Mr.  Burke  might  be 
considered  almost  as  an  Encyclopaedia ;  every  man 
who  approached  him  received  instruction  from  his 
stores.^'  "  Learning,"  writes  a  contemporary  of  a 
different  stamp,  but  who  nevertheless  never  voted 
with  him  except  during  the  period  of  the  coalition 
Ministry,  <*  waited  upon  him  like  a  hand-maid,  pre- 
senting to  his  choice  all  that  antiquity  had  culled  or 
invented;  he  often  seemed  to  be  oppressed  under 
the  load  and  variety  of  his  intellectual  treasures. 
Every  power  of  oratory  was  wielded  by  him  in  turn; 
for  he  could  be  during  the  same  evening  pathetic 
and  humorous,  acrimonious  and  conciliating ;  now 
giving  a  loose  to  his  indignation  and  severity ;  and 
then  almost  in  the  same  breath  calling  to  his  assist- 
ance ridicule,  wit,  and  mockery." 

''As  an  orator,"  ^ds  another  adversary  on  the 
question  of  revolutionary  politics,  ''  notwithstand- 
ing some  defects,  he  stands  almost  unrivaUed.  No 
man  was  better  calculated  to  arouse  the  dormant 
passions,  to  call  forth  the  glowing  affections  of  the 
human  heart,  and  to  '  harrow  up'  the  inmost  re- 
cesses of  the  soul.  Venality  and  meanness  stood 
appalled  in  his  presence ;  he  who  was  dead  to  the 
feelings  of  his  own  conscience  was  still  alive  to  his 
animated  reproaches;  and  corruption  for  a  while 
became  alarmed  at  the  terrors  of  his  countenance. 


444  JLIFE  OF  TUB 

Had  be  died  during  tlie  meridian  of  his  £Hiie  and 
fharacter  he  could  scarcdy  have  been  coa^derad 
eeoond  to  any  man  either  of  ancient  or  modem  times." 
The  mefidioM  qf  hisfaame  and  character  means,  in 
this  writer's  opinion^  before  he  assajliRd  the  Fiendi 
Revolution,  and  persons  of  similar  sentiments  all 
^eak  the  same  language;  but  the  rest  %A  the  world 
who  think  differently  and  moffe  justly,  deem  his 
exertions  upon  that  8ul{|ect  the  climax  of  his  reputa- 
tion and  powers. 

^  His  learning  is  so  various  and  extensive,**  said 
the  Rev.  Thomas  Campbell,  author  ^  the  History 
of  Ireland,  ^  that  we  might  praise  it  for  its  range 
and  compass,  were  it  not  still  more  praise-worthy 
for  its  solidity  and  depth.  His  imagination  \&  so 
lively  and  so  creative,  that  he  may  justly  be  called 
the  child  of  fancy ;  and  therefore  his  enemies,  for 
even  he  is  not  without  them,  would  persuade  us, 
that  his  fEuicy  overbears  his  judgment.  Whereas, 
this  fine  frenzy  is,  as  it  ought  to  be,  only  a  seconds 
ary  ingredient  in  the  high  composition  of  a  man, 
who  not  (mly  reflects  honour  on  his  native  coun- 
try, but  elevates  the  dignity  of  human  nature.  In 
his  most  eccentric  flights,  in  his  most  seemingly 
wild  excursions,  in  the  most  boisterous  tempest  of 
his  passion,  there  is  always  a  guardian  angel  whidi 
rides  in  the  whirlwind,  and  directs  the  storm.  His 
grand  diaracteristic  is  genjus,  and  ruling  fiaculty  is 
judgment,  though  certainly  not  of  that  cold  kind 
which  the  law  would  call  prudence ;  but  his  reason 
is  enlightened  by  intuition,  and  whilst  he  persuadea 
as  an  orator,  he  instructs  as  a  philosopher. 

<'  A  nobleman  of  the  highest  station  and  abilities 


RIGHT   HOBT.   JUD^MU  IL'il  BURKE.  443 

m  England  tifeo«gft  vf  an.  opposite  pattj  in  |MDlitic8, 
wkeH  he  heard  die  petty^  miniinBB:  oi  Ae  daj  decry 
his  powers^  stofqied  ^tem  short,  amd  saiil,  *  Come, 
eome,  hold  your  tongUB,  the  tvext  age  ca«ld  not 
know  that  Htsre  was  oratory  ia  this,^  if  Edmmid 
Burke  had  uot  printed  his  speeches.'  And  Dr. 
J<dinson9  generally  a  niggaerd  ii>  panegyric,  speaking 
of  that  parity  of  tatenta  which  is  genendity  distri- 
bnted  to  the  sons  of  men,  has  been  heard  to  say,  Aat 
during  his  aeq|Tiaiirtanee  wlAh  life,  he  knew  but  two 
ttien  who  had  risen  considerably  above  the  oommon 
standard ;  the  one  was  Lord  Chatham,  the-  oth^ 
was  Edmund  E^ke.'^ 

^  His  doquenoe,"  said  Mr.  Wilbevforoe  on  anodiet 
eccaslMt — and  it  was  rarely  tbeir  lot  to  agree  on 
political  matters—^  had  ahrays  attracted,  his 
naagination  continuaQy  channed,^  his  neasonings 
often  coimneed  Mm.  Of  his  head  and  of  his  heart, 
of  his  abilities  and  of  his  humanity,  of  his  rectitude 
and  of  his  perseverance,  no  man  coold  e»tertam  a 
higher  opinion  than  he  did." 

A  critic  of  considerable  repute  thus  indirectly 
alludes  to  the  oratory  of  Mr.  Burke,  in  anafysing 
that  of  Mr.  Grattan — 

^  It  is  not  the  roundness,  the  ore  roiwndo  of  Mr. 
Pitt ;  it  is  not  the  simple  majesty  of  Mr.  Fox ;  H  is 
not  the  brilliancy  of  Mr.  Sheridan.  Occasionally  we 
caught  a  tint,  a  feature  of  resemblance  to  Mr.  Burke, 
but  he  has  not  that  commanding  figure  and  mann^, 
that  voltune  of  voice,  that  superabimdant  richness 
and  fertility  of  fancy,  that  vast  grasp  and  range  of 
mind  which  Mr.  Burke  possessed  beyond  all  other 
created  beings." 


449  LIFE  OF  THE 

To  these  might  be  added  some  himdreds  of  similar 
eulogies  of  his  diaracter  and  powers  from  inferior 
men ;  language  indeed  has  been  nearly  exhausted  in 
diaracteiizing  them ;  and  the  terms  *^  a  vast  store- 
house of  knowledge/'  *^  an  illustrious  man,**  '*  a 
wonderful  man/'  **  an  unequalled  man ;"  **  a  mighty 
mind/'  '^  an  all-knowing  mind,"  *^  a  boundless  mind,** 
^  an  exhaustless  mind,"  ''the  most  consummate  orator 
o£  the  age,"  ''  the  greatest  orator  and  wisest  states- 
man of  modem  times,"  occur  to  the  reader  of  nearly 
every  work,  untainted  by  party  spirit,  in  which  he 
is  mentioned. 

In  this  enumeration,  the  character  drawn  of  him 
by  his  intimate  firiend  Dr.  French  Lawrence  must  not 
be  omitted.  After  mentioning  his  death  sometime  in 
the  night  of  July  8,  17979  he  sa3rs — 

<*  His  end  was  suited  to  the  simple  greatness  of 
mind  which  he  displayed  through  life,  every  way 
tmaffected,  without  levity,  without  ostentation,  fiill 
of  natural  grace  and  dignity :  he  appeared  neither 
to  wish  nor  to  dread,  but  patiently  and  placidly  to 
await  the  hour  of  his  dissolution.  He  had  been 
listening  to  some  Essays  of  Addison's,  in  which  he 
ever  took  delight ;  he  had  recommended  himself,  in 
many  affectionate  messages,  to  the  remembrance  of 
those  absent  friends  whom  he  had  never  ceased  to 
love;  he  had  conversed  some  time  with  his  ac- 
customed force  of  thought  and  expression  on  the 
awful  situation  of  his  country,  for  the  welfare  of 
which  his  heart  was  interested  to  the  very  last  beat; 
he  had  given  with  steady  composure  some  private 
directions,  in  contemplation  of  his  approaching 
death;   when,    as  his  attendants  were  conveying 


RIOHT  HON.  EDMUKD  BUBKE.  447 

liim  to  bis  bed»  he  sunk  down,  and,  after  a  shbit 
strugi^le,  passed  quietly,  and  without  a  groab  to 
eternal  rest,  in  that  mercy  which  he  had  just  declared 
he  had  l(Hig  sought  with  unfeigned  humiliation,  and 
to  which  he  looked  with  a  trembling  hope ! 

^  Of  his  talents  and  acquirements  in  general,  it  is 
unnecessary  to  speak.  They  were  long  the  glory  df 
his  country,  and  the  admiration  of  Europe;  thqr 
might  have  been  (had  it  so  consisted  with  the  in- 
scrutable counsels  of  divine  Providence !)  the  salva- 
tion of  both.  If  not  the  most  accomplished  orator, 
yet  the  most  eloquent  man  of  his  age;  perhaps 
second  to  none  in  any  age :  he  had  still  more  wisdom 
than  eloquence.  He  diligently  collected  it  from  the 
wise  of  all  times ;  but,  what  he  had  so  obtained  he 
enriched  from  the  vast  treasury  of  his  own  observa^ 
tion;  and  his  intellect,  active,  vigorous,  comjoe- 
hensive,  trained  in  the  disdpline  of  true  philosophy, 
to  whatever  subject  he  applied  it,  penetrated  at  onoe 
through  the  surface  into  the  essential  forms  of 
things. 

**  With  a  fancy  singularly  vivid,  he  least  of  all 
men,  in  his  time,  indulged  in  splendid  theories. 
With  more  ample  materials  of  every  kind  than  any 
of  his  cotemporaries,  he  was  the  least  iii  his  own 
skill  to  innovate.  A  statesman  of  the  most  enlarged 
views — ^in  all  his  policy  he  was  strictly  practical; 
and  in  his  practice  he  always  r^arded,  with  holy 
reverence,  the  institutions  and  manners  derived  fitmi 
our  ancestors.  It  seemed  as  if  he  had  been  endowed 
with  such  transcendant  powers,  and  informed  with 
such  extensive  knowledge,  only  to  bear  the  more 
striking  testimony,  in  these  days  of  rash  presump- 


444)  Lrtn,  Cft  TflTK 


tioa^  ItoW  nmdb  tihe  grrategt  miiid  ig  •Ingiy'  iitf<^to» 
to  tife  wcumdatoil  eiferts  <rf  imnmienUe  ndaii  M 

^  Hii  prlviile  oonvevrntton  hAd  dve  ftaaoe  thietoM 
with  his  pBbHc  eloqaeaeLce,  He  tometimes  aribmed 
ind  d^nified  it  with  philosophy,  but  he  ne\^r  tost 
tte^arm  ef  natural  ease.  There  was  tio  mli^eet 
90  triviia  which  he  did  not  transiently  ilhoninaite 
with  the  hrilliaifiey  of  hi»  im^nation.  In  wtMmgy 
in  spealdiig^  is  dxe  senate,  or  roiOHl  tbe  tables  it 
WW  eai^  to  tnee  the  ^^lerstioiffi  of  the  aooEie  gumis. 

^  To  the  Pi^testant  rel^fon,  as  by  law  eataUiBfaed, 
he  was^  «Ctacfaed  from  shic^e  oonviction ;  nor  was 
hi0  a  bamn  belief,  witSioat  inflnence  on  his  moral 
eoEvtael;.  He  wa0  rigid  isi  the  systsm  of  duties  by 
whidti  he  tegidated  hia  own  actaona ;  liberal  in  am* 
struingf  those  of  other  nen;  warm,  but  jiAacable; 
resetting'  mote  the  offeneev  eonundtted  against  those 
who  were  desr  to^  hhn,  than  against  hhnseif ;  vehe- 
ment anfd  indignant  only  where  he  thoogbt  pnblk 
justice  insulted ;  compassionate  to  private  distress ; 
tani^t  to  suffering  guUt  As  a  frirad,  he  was,  per- 
hi^  too  partiak  to  those  he  esteemed ;  over-ratai|| 
every  little  merit,  overlookn^  aU  their  defeets }  m- 
defikt^able  In  servhig  them ;  stndning  *m  their 
fkfour  whatever  influence  he  possessed;  aad^  tot 
their  nhes  more  than  his  own,  regrettii^,  that 
dxtring  so  long  a  politiiad  life,  he  had  so  seldon 
bore  any  share  hi  powar,  whidi  he  ieonsideRd  only 
aa  an  instrament  of  more  diffnsivie  good.  In  Im 
domestic  rehitions  he  was  worthy,  and  more  than 
worthy  he  could  not  be,  of  the  emiaeiit  feUdly 
which  for  many  j^ars  he  enjoyed ;  a  husband  of 


RIOHT   HON.  EDMUND   BURKE.  449 

exemplary  tenderness  and  fidelity ;  a  father  fond  to 
excess ;  the  most  affectionate  of  brothers  ;  the  kind- 
est master;  and»  on  his  part,  he  has  often  been 
heard  to  declare,  that  in  the  most  anxious  moments 
of  his  public  life,  every  care  vanished  when  he  en- 
tered his  own  roof. 

'*  One,  who  long  and  intimately  knew  him,  to  di- 
vert his  OMHi  sorrow,  has  paid  this  very  inadequate 
tribute  to  his  memory.  Nothing  which  relates  to 
such  a  man  can  be  uninteresting  or  uninstructive  to 
the  public,  to  whom  he  truly  belonged.  Few,  in- 
deed, whom  the  divine  goodness  has  largely  gifted, 
are  capable  of  profiting  by  the  imitation  of  his  ge- 
nius and  learning ;  but  all  mankind  may  grow  bet- 
ter by  the  study  of  his  virtues."  * 

*  Of  Dr.  Lawrence  himflelf^  for  a  long  period  the  valued  ac- 
quaintance of  Mr.  Burke,  the  reader  may  not  be  displeased  to  see 
the  following^  printed  in  the  newspapers  soon  after  his  decease : 

*'  To  the  fomudahle  catalogue  of  eminent  deceased  characters, 
who  have  successively  been  snatched  from  society  within  the  last 
few  years,  is  now  to  be  added  the  name  of  French  Lawienoe^ 
LL.D.,  and  Member  of  Parliament  for  Peterborough,  who  fell  the 
victim  of  rapid  and  unexpected  decline.  He  expired  on  Monday, 
Feb.  27,  1S09,  in  the  vigour  of  his  days,  and  the  maturity  of  Us 
talents. 

"  Distoiguished  as  a  civilian,  a  political  philosopher,  a  poet,  and 
a  senator,  his  death  must,  without  partiality  to  him  individually, 
be  considered  as  a  public  bereavement.  By  the  operation  of  a 
vigonniB  intellect,  combined  with  persevering  application.  Dr. 
Lowienoe  soon  rose  into  high  professional  estimation.  He  be- 
came, at  length,  politically  known  by  the  active  part  which  he 
took,  during  1784,  in  favour  of  Mr,  Fox's  memorably  contested 
election  for  Westminster.  His  career  in  the  senate  was  highly 
respectable.  His  sentiments,  which  he  not  unfrequently  deli- 
vered in  the  House  of  Commons,  were  the  result  of  deep  thought, 
couched  in  striking  and  nervous  language,  and  were  always  we^' 

VOL.  II.  2  G 


450  LIFE  OF  THK 

Mudh  the  greater  part  of  these  praises  were  be- 
stowed hy  persons  who  knew  him,  not  merely  in  the 
casual  bustle  of  political  life,  but  in  moments  when 
the  statesman  was  sunk  in  the  social  acquaintance-; 
and  this  is  the  most  valuable  species  of  testimony  ; 
for  it  sometimes    happens  that  a  nearer  view  of 

spectfully  received.  If  he  seldom  attempted  to  enliven  l^islativa 
discussions  with  the  scintillations  of  wit,  it  was  because  be  felt 
the  gravity  of  tbe  senatorial  cbaracter  to  be  utterly  incompatiUe 
with  ostentatious  displays  of  this  land. 

"  Estimated  as  a  poet  and  wit,  however,  the  RoDiad  and  Pin* 
bationary  Odes,  of  which  the  preface  and  notes  to  the  former  were 
chiefly  from  his  pen,  have  established  his  reputation  beyond  the 
chances  of  mutability.  He  was  likewise  the  writer  of  several 
election  ballads,  which  reflect  credit  on  his  genius,  and  of  vazious 
little  poems,  inserted  in  the  poedcal  register/  which  suflbjentlj 
evince  the  extent  and  versatility  of  his  talents. 

*'  As  one  of  the  executors  of  the  late  Edmund  Burke,  it  became 
the  province  of  Dr.  Lawrence,  in  discharge  of  the  trust  so  reposed 
in  him,  to  superintend  the  posthumous  publicationsy  together  with 
the  other  literary  property,  of  his  illustrious  friend.  Amongst 
thdse  woiks,  the  conducting  of  the  original  Annual  Register,  in 
the  composition  of  which  Dr.  Lawrence  had  long  assisted,  came, 
on  the  death  of  Mr.  Burke,  entirely  under  his  direction.  Of  the 
volumes  immediately  subsequent,  the  prefaces,  and  some  parts  of 
the  History  of  Europe,  were  written  by  Dr.  Lawrence.  It  is 
greatly  to  be  regretted,  that  his  other  avocation^,  multifarious 
and  embarrassing,  prevented  him  from  extending  his  credit  as  an 
author. 

''  Endeared  to  his  friends  by  his  virtues,  valued  Tyy  lihe  public 
for  his  writings,  and  esteemed  by  his  compatriots  as  a  senator, 
he  is  exempted  from  the  common  oblivion  of  men ;  as  one  whose 
talents  and  whose  virtues  will  linger  some  tame  longer  in  reooileo* 
tion.  Considered  with  reference  to  his  political  views  and  feel<* 
ings,  Dr.  Lawrence  was  one  of  those  who  seem  to  have  been  liap* 
pily  removed  from  those  public  evils  -which  are  evidently  impend-* 
ing.  He  partook  of  noUer  views,  and  lived  in  better  times.  Ht 
was  one  of  the  last  great  men  of  the  old  school  i "  t 


RIGHT  HON,  SBMUNO  BURKE.  451 


piiblic  men  diminishes  much  of  that  wonder  we  fieel 
Ht  a  distance.  On  the  contrary  it  appears  that  in- 
tanacy  with  Mr.  Burke  increased  it.  His  more  pri« 
yate  friends,  who  happened  to  be  little  or  not  at  all 
connected  with  public  affieurs,  and  who  had  the  best 
possible  opportunities  of  probing  and  exploring  the 
man,  loved  him  the  best,  and  prized  him  the  most. 
The  same  feeling  existed  among  his  relations.  No 
man,  it  has  been  said,  is  a  hero  to  his  valet  de 
chambre,  and  from  the  same  feeling  of  familiarity, 
jfew  men,  perhaps,  however  great  in  the  estimation 
of  the  world,  carry  the  impressions  of  greatness  into 
tbejt  bosoms  of  their  own  families.  But  even  here, 
where  most  imveiled  and  unreserved,  he  had  the 
fortune  to  secure  both  profound  attachment  and 
respect ;  and  the  following  anecdote  proves  that  he 
contrived  to  belie  the  proverb  just  quoted.  When 
some  one  was  congratulating  his  old  servant  Web- 
ster on  the  honour  of  serving  so  good  a  master  and 
so  great  a  man — **  Yes,  Sir,"  said  the  faithful  at- 
tendant, '^  he  is  a  great  man ; — ^he  knows  and  does 
every  thing  but  what  is  mean  or  little."  Mr.  Wind- 
ham used  to  say  that  this  was  one  of  the  finest  pa- 
;aegyrics  upon  him  which  could  be  uttered. 

Richard  his  brother,  and  William  Burke,  them- 
selves able  men,  his  companions  from  youth,  the 
partakers  of  his  fortunes,  the  participators  in  many 
of  his  studies,  who  knew,  if  any  men  could  know, 
-the  value  of  his  mind,  and  the  labours  bestowed  upon 
its  culture,  looked  up  to  him  with  a  feeling  of  ve- 
neration. Sentiments  of  this  kind  frequently  appear 
in  the  letters  of  both.  At  an  early  period  of  his 
public  life,  Richard,  writing  to  a  friend  in  Ireland, 

2  G  2 


458  LIFE  OF   THS 

tluis  ooocfaideft  an  oilogium  upon  him — **  Whatever 
he  has  is  his  own ;  he  owes  the  pablic  nothing,  what- 
ever the  pfoblic  may  owe  to  him.  It  is  but  just  to 
his  character  to  say  that  for  honour,  for  int^rity, 
and  for  abili^,  no  man  ever  stood  higher  in  public 
estimation  in  this  kingdom ;  and  I  will  add,  but  it  ia 
to  you  that  I  write,  no  man  ever  better  deserved  it.** 
William  Burke,  writing  about  the  same  time,  speaks 
the  same  language.  Though  no  relation  oi  Edmund, 
tiiis  gentleman  was  so  nmch  attached  to  him  from 
boyhood,  and  so  proud  of  the  ccmnexion,  that,  in 
the  language  of  a  friend  of  the  &mily,  **  he  would 
have  knocked  any  man  down  who  had  dared  to 
dispute  the  relationship.'' 

The  respectful  admiration  of  his  son  equalled  that 
of  his  brother  and  friend.  During  the  last  virit  to 
Ireland  in  1786,  w)ien  Mr.  Shacldeton,  after  listen- 
ing attentively  to  some  ingenious  and  profound  ob- 
servations of  his  father,  turned  aside  soon  afterwards 

with  his  son  and  ranarked  in  conversation,  ^*  he  is 

• 

the  greatest  man  of  the  age ; "  **  He  is,"  replied  the 
son,  with  filial  enthusiasm,  and  a  very  near  approx- 
imation to  the  truth,  **  the  greatest  man  of  any  age.** 
Dr.  Parr,  we  have  seen,  was  of  the  same  opinion. 
Lord  Thurlow's  estimate  of  him  has  just  been  given. 
Ifar.  Lawrence's  sentiments  are  on  record;  while  a 
few  living,  and  a  host  of  dead  friends,  concurred  in 
the  same  tone  of  admiration. 

Nothing  perhaps  more  strongly  exhibits  the  ho- 
mage paid  to  his  vigour  of  mind  than  the  influence 
it  gave  him  over  the  most  eminent  men  with  whom 
political  connexion  brought  him  into  dose  contact : 
over  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham,  a  man  of  sound 


RIGHT  HON.   EDMUNQ  BURKE.  4S3 

talents  unquestionably ;  over  Mr.  Dowdeswell,  and 
all  the  ablest  of  that  party ;  over  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land ;  over  Mr.  Fox ;  oyer  Mr.  Windham ;  over  all 
his  private  friends  without  exception ;  over  the  most 
distingtiished  of  the  Old  Whig  party  now  living; 
over  several  of  the  coalition  Ministry ;  in  a  consi- 
derable degree  over  Mr.  Pitt  and  his  colleagues  in 
1792)  at  least  as  much  as  the  habitual  pride,  and 
jealousy  of  idl  political  talents  entertained  by  the 
Minister,  would  permit ;  and,  on  nearly  aU  the  great 
questions  he  embraced,  eventually  over  the  Whole 
nation.  If  it  i^uire  a  strong  understanding  to 
gain  a  leading  influence  over  even  the  ignorant  and 
the  weak,  what  must  that  be  which  subjects  to  its 
dominion  the  enlightened,  and  the  powerful,  and  iii 
talents  not  merely  the  great  but  the  vast  ? 


454  LIFE  OF  THE 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

Hb  eloquenoe^— His  writu^^s* — Hu  leadiiig  principles  as  v 
Stotennaa*— Mr.  Burke,  Mr.  Pitt»  Mr.  Fox. 


.  Of  the  conception  which  we  have  been  tai]^t  to 
^itertain  of  what  a  great  and  commanding  oratoc 
ahould  be ;  whose  moral  character^  as  the  and^tto 
endeavour  to  impress  upon  us,  ought  to  be  puie; 
whose  knowledge  must  be  universal ;  whose  gemus 
serves  to  animate  and  adorn  bis  knowledge ;  whose 
language  flows  at  will ;  whose  delivery  is  requirei 
to  be  impressive ;  whose  powers  of  reasoning  ami 
imagination  are  equally  strong;  whose  presence rf 
mind  rarely  deserts  him ;  whoscreadiness  to  combine 
all  these  qualities,  or  to  draw  upon  each  separately 
as  circumstances  may  require,  is  unlimited — ^there  is 
no  man,  perhaps,  in  the  history  of  English  oratory, 
who  comes  near  to  Mr.  Burke.  It  has  been  re- 
marked with  some  truth,  that  his  powers,  if  shared 
out,  would  have  made  half  a  dozen  of  good  oraton. 
It  must  at  least  be  regarded  as  an  uncommon  coin- 
cidence that  he  should  unite  in  an  eminent  d^ree 
nearly  every  one  of  the  requisites  which  the  critics 
of  the  classic  days  of  Rome  point  out  as  necessary 
to  the  character.  Others  of  the  great  political  names 
<^  our  country  possess  only  two  or  three  of  the  qiia- 
Ijfies  here  enumerated.  Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr.  Fox,  fiir 
instance,  equalled  him  in  vigour  of  reasoning,  in 
judgment,  and  in  fluency ;  Mr.  I^eridan  in  coohiess, 


RIGHT  HON.  BDMUHD  BUBKE.  455 

promptitade  and  wit ;  Lord  Chatham  had  the  ad-> 
vantage  in  a  bold,  and  indeed  overpowering  delivery, 
and  perhaps.  Lord  Bolingbroke  also  in  some  degree ; 
CSiarles  Townshend  in  a  peculiar  parliamentary 
skill  in  seizing  the  favourable  moment  to  push  a  sub- 
ject, and  in  the  adaptation  of  his  powers  to  the  point 
at  issue,  as  well  as  to  the  present  temper  of  the 
House,  whatever  temper  that  might  be ;  but  none 
of  them  possessed  the  combination  peculiar  to  Mr. 
Burke.  Neither  had  any  of  these  eminent  persons 
his  originality  of  thought,  his  force  of  language,  his 
striking  phraseology,  or  that  inexhaustible  fertility 
upon  every  topic  which  constitutes  the  soiQ  of  elo- 
quence, and  which,  when  his  opponents  had  little  else 
to  find  fault  with,  they  urged  against  him  as  a  defect. 
He  would  seem  therefore  to  have  been  cut  out  for  a 
great  orator,  partly  by  some  natural  gifts,  and  partly 
by  having  grounded  and  reared  himself  upon  the 
model  which  the  Augustan  age  of  literature  recom- 
mends. And  this  must  have  been  done  at  an  early 
period  of  life ;  led  to  it  probably  not  so  much  from 
any  sanguine  expectation  of  ever  becoming  the  cha- 
racter which  he  admired,  as  by  the  expected  duties 
of  the  profession  he  at  first  contemplated,  or  by  that 
latent  instinct  which,  without  knowing  precisely 
whitlier  it  tends,  so  often  propels  and  guides  in  the 
pursuits  of  life. 

^  A  distinction  may  be  made,  and  perhaps  hold  good, 
between  a  great  orator  and  a  debater.  It  has  been 
said,  that  in  the  latter  respect  Mr.  Fox  acquired  the 
superiority  over  all  men.  No  speaker  certainly  was 
ever  heard  with  more  consideration  by  those  opposed 
to  him,  or,  perhaps,  with  so  much  partiality  by  those 


456  LIFE  OF  THE 

whom  he  led  in  theHouse  of  Comiiioii8»  as  irell  from 
his  imquestioned  talents  and  popularity;  as  from  the 
strong  attachment  of  the  latter  to  his  person,  whid& 
scarcely  any  other  political  kader  has  had  the  good 
fortone  to  secure,  or  to  secure  in  the  same  degree. 
It  will,  nerertheless,  he  difficult  to  point  out  where 
Mr.  Burke's  presumed  inferiority  lay.  In  infimoa^ 
tion,  in  wisdom  upon  all  great  occasions,  and  in 
variety  of  talents  to  secure  them  a  farourable  recep- 
tion frx>m  his  hearers,  he  had  no  equal ;  in  readinett 
and  vigour  no  superior;  and  he  was  accused  of 
being  frequent  and  fertile  to  a  fault. 

Aflter  all,  however,  it  may  be  doubted  whether  this 
great  reputed  dexterity  in  debate  of  Mr.  Fox,  be  any 
just  criterion  of  the  highest  order  of  intellect,  or  whe- 
ther his  style  which  commonly  accompanied  it  was  of 
the  highest  style  of  oratory — that  style  whidb  is  not 
merely  effective  in  the  British  Senate,  but  which 
commands  the  admiration  of  all  men,  of  all  countries, 
as  the  perfection  of  the  art.  Judged  by  this  stand- 
ard he  comes  much  short  of  Mr.  Burke.  A  good 
debater,  although  a  character  ahnost  wholly  English, 
as  there  was  scarcely  any  such  (their  speeches  being 
chiefly  writte?)  among  the  ancients,  and  little  re- 
sembling him  in  the  rest  of  Europe  at  the  pres^it 
day,  is  more  of  a  mechanic,  perhaps,  than  he  k 
willing  to  acknowledge.  His  range  is  commonly 
narrowed,  his  aim  bounded  by  local  or  tonporary 
circumstances,  which,  though  calculated  to  meet  some 
petty  interest  or  emeigency  of  the  moment,  often 
become  an  obstacle  to  a  very  wide  expansion  of  mind; 
he  may  be  said  to  move  within  a  moral  circle,  to 
work  in  a  species  of  political  tread-mill ;  and  his  art 


RIGHT   H|>H.  EDMITMD  BUEKE.  457 

has  been  attained,  as  in  the  cases  6f  Mr.  Foic»  Mr. 
Pitt,  and  others,  and  it  is  but  fair  to  calculate,  ma^  be 
again  acquired,  at  an  agie  when  other  and  much  high^ 
faculties  remain  stitt  unfolded.  A  good  debater, 
therefore,  may  in  a  great  measure  be  made.  The 
power  of  a  great  and  oommaading  orator^  in  the 
highest  acceptation  of  the  term,  must,  like  that  of 
the  poet,  be  chiefly  bom  with  him.* 

The.  oratorical  style  of  Mr.  Burke  is  not  only  of 
the  very  highest  order,  but  it  possesses  the  first  eha* 
racteristic  of  genius — c»:igindity.  We  have  nothing 
that  is  very  similar  to  it,  and  little,  perhaps,  equal  to 
it,  in  our  language,  though  of  its  nature  and  power, 
its  vigour  and  variety,  its  novelty  of  thought,  and 
intellectual  brilliancy  which  flashes  athwart  every 
subject,  and  transmutes  all  objects  that  it  meets  with 
into  auxiliaries  to  his  main  purpose,  a  very  inade- 
quate idea  can  be  conveyed  by  description,  and  no 
specimen  can  do  it  justice.  When  Johnson  was 
asked  whether  Mr.  Burke  resembled  TuUius  Cicero  ? 
"  No,  Sir,''  was  the  reply,  "  he  resembles  Edmund 

.  *  Since  tbis  was  in  the  press^  the  opinion  of  a  great  geniufl,  re- 
centLy  giren  to  the  worU>  seems  to  coEzobonite  that  of  the  pie* 
sent  writer. 

Lord  Byron  has  observed,  that  no  parliamentary  speaker  of  our 
own  day  gave  him  the  idea  of  a  great  orator.  Grattan,  he  stddj, 
wlw  near  to  it.  Fox  he  only  regarded  as  a  debater^  and  between 
sueh  a  diaracter  and  a  great  orator  there  is  no  more  resembbnee^ 
he  adds,  than  between  an  improvisatore,  or  a  versifier^  and  a  great 
poet.  Lord  Chatham  and  Burke^  were,  in  his  opinion,  the  only 
English  orators  who  approached  perfection— —If  the  contest  for 
superiority  lies  between  these  two  great  men,  it  will  be  n6  diflt 
,cult  matter,  perhaps,  to  decide'  to  whom  the  prefetenee  will  be 
ultimately  given. 


458  LIFE  OF  THE 

Burke.**  Taken  as  a  whole,  however^  Ui 
partakes  of  the  grandeur  <tf  the  doqoeBt  Roman^ 
with  more  of  riAnew,  of  knowledge,  of  maaculiiie 
energy,  and  altogether  a  greater  reach  of  mind  than 
he  displays  ;  though  with  less  of  chastity,  of  elabo* 
rate  elegance,  or  of  methodical  arrangmient,  which, 
however,  we  have  no  right  to  expect  in  speedies 
which,  imlike  those  of  the  great  ancient,  were  not 
peUahed  into  perfection  before  they  were  spoken. 
In  detached  passages  he  Sometimes  assumes  an  air 
of  severity,  and  of  that  simpler  dignity  which 
belongs  to  Demosthenes,  to  whom,  as  an  orator,  he 
himself  gave  the  preference.* 

His  eloquence  will  be  found  less  remarkable  for 
the  predominance  of  any  one  £Eiculty  of  the  mind,  than 
for  that  distinguishing  feature  already  alluded 


*  A  writer,  already  quoted,  says  of  him — "  Equal  to  that  great 
man  (Cicero)  in  dialectic,  in  imagery,  in  occasional  splendour, 
and  in  general  information ;— excelling  him  in  political  "wisdom, 
and  the  application  of  history  and  philosophy  to  politics  {there  $9 
little  doubt  but  that  be  aUo  excelled  him  in  the  preceding  fowte  m 
which  he  is  only  rated  as  equal) — he  yields  to  him  in  pathos,  in 
grace,  in  taste,  and  even  in  that  which  was  not  the  forte  of  Cicero, 
indiscretion.  *  •  •  *  What  particularly  dis- 
tinguishes him  from  the  Greek  and  Roman  orators,  and  from  his 
contemporary  rivals,  were  the  countless  lessons  of  civil  and  wool 
wisdom  hy  which  he  dignified  his  compositions,  andhoth  enforced 
and  illustrated  his  arguments ;  his  sudden  transitions  from  the 
grand  to  the  gay,  from  suhHmity  to  pleasantry,  from  the  refined  and 
teoondite  to  the  ordinary  and  ohvious ;  and  his  frequent  admixture 
of  coarse  and  low  expressions  even  into  his  most  splendid  passages 
The  effect  of  those  W9S  sometimes  great,  but  they  deformed  and  dis- 
gusted. 'The  Venus  of  Phidias,'  Wilkes  used  to  say,  <  was  so 
lovely,  that  the  Atheniana  called  her  the  Venus  of  Roses :  lovely 
too,  speaking  generally,  is  the  Venus  of  Burke;  but  she  sometimes 
is  the  Venus  of  whisky.' " 


RIGHT  HOK.   £DMUNI>  BUEKE.  459 

a  ecmibi&atibn  of  them  all ;  a  peculiarity  whidi  had 
so  much  confused  the  judgment  of  many,  and  not 
mean  critics,  as  to  give  rise  to  the  most  contradictory 
opinions.     Some  tespreBent  him  as  addressing  tbo 
passions  and  imagination  more  than  the  undiustaikd* 
ing ;  others  of  overwhelming  his  sutrject  by  pouring 
in  ai^^ument  much  more  than  enough ;   some  of 
dealing  in  that  bold,   flowing,  loose,  yet  powerfiil 
style  which  they  term  licentious ;  others  of  being 
often  abrupt  and  severe ;  some  for  indulging  in  too 
much  wit,  and  ornament,  and  lighter  matter ;  oth^s 
for  .being  too  metaphysical  and  refined,  and  too  much 
above  the  intellectual  level  of  the  assembly  he  ad* 
dressed,  though  that  assembly  was  the  House  of 
Commons.    Such  seems  to  have  been  in  some  mea- 
sure the  opinion  of  Groldsmith,  who  describes  him  as 
|>eing  doomed  (in  allusion  also  to  the  fatigue  and 
privations  of  debate) — *^  To  eat  mutton  .cold,  and 
cut  blocks  with  a  razor."    Some  again  have  honestly 
confessed,  that  after  much  meditation  they  can  make 
nothing  at  all  of  him — ^that  his  qualities  contradict 
each  other,  and  that  his  powers  and  his  mode  of 
]wielding  them  are  equally  indescribable* 
•    All  these  opinions,  it  is  clear,  cannot  be  true,  and 
the  confusion  perhaps  arises  from  each  viewing  him 
in  the  light  which  strikes  strongest  at  the  moment ; 
from  attending  not  so  much  to  the  conjoined  effect  of 
the  whole  of  his  argument,  as  to  single  parts,  each 
of  which  indeed  is  so  striking  in  itself,  as  to  appear 
a  principal  in  the  cause  in  which  it  is  embodied  only 
as  an  auxiliary.     Examine  any  single  oration  he  has 
published ;  that  on  American  Taxation  for  instance, 
lihc  first,  though  perhaps  not  the  best  that  he  gave 


460  LIFE  OF  THE 

to  the  worlds  and  the  pervading  feding  in  the  mind 
ci  the  reader  aftar  perusal,  is  a  conyicti0n  of  soandy 
8traq(ht^orwanl  sense,  enlargement  of  mind,  in- 
genioos,  and  yet  solid  and  honest  vieirs,modaration  of 
t<me,and  acnte,  distrfminating  wisdom  in  the  speaker. 
Let  him  omit  the  grajAde  sketdies  of  dttracter,  if 
these  should  be  deemed  eztranedos  or  tnetietrtdonft, 
and  there  is  little  to  offend  even  a  £BBtidioiii^  taste : 
Nothing  wlutever  whidi  can  be  considered  floti'^tty 
(an  accusation  sometimes  laid  to  Bfr.  Bnr|jei*s  chai^ 
by  a  strange  confusion  of  language,  thdtigh  thefe  ib 
not  even  an  approach  to  sttch  a  quality  in  Btiy  obe 
of  his  speeches  or  ^writings) ;  nothing  merely  amus- 
ing or  mnamental;  nothing  which  the  jdainest  mi- 
derstanding  may  not  instantly  comprehend ;  nothing 
which  merely  solidts  the  imagination  for  a  fig^nre, 
without  that  figure  strikes  hard  and  home  in  some 
form  or  otter  npcm  the  argument ;  but  a  total  of  vi- 
gour and  effect  (m  this,as  on  any  question  wliich  much 
engaged  his  attention,  that  no  other  modem  orator 
imparts,  and  which  the  records  of  Paltiament  teadi 
us  no  other  could  have  imparted.  His  great  aim,  as  to 
manner,  in  this,  as  in  all  his  pablic  speeches  ami  liis 
writings,  is  strength.  To  this  he  often  sacrifices  die 
minor  consideration  of  el^ance  or  beauty  of  {Amse, 
which  were  reserved  chiefly  for  his  private  commu- 
nications. He  approaches  to  a  contest  therefore, 
not  with  two  or  three,  but  with  that  variety  of  qua- 
lities which  may  be  compared  to  a  whole  armory  of 
weapons ;  and  the  skill  with  which  they  were  used, 
and  the  consequent  difficulty  experienced  by  tbe 
ablest  opponents  in  meeting  huit  fully  on  eTery  point 
of  attack,  made  him  at  all  timera  most  forndddxle 


KIOHT  HOK.  EDMUKO  BUfiKE.  461 

assaflant  ia  Parliame!iit~a  kind  of  Briareus  among 
political  disputentSt 

To  arrive  at  this  result  his  mind  poeeegaed  a  pe- 
eoliarlf  discomive  feculty ;  like  a  bird  of  prey  upon 
tba  wing  it  was  ever  on  the  watch  for  something  on 
wfaifrh  to  levy  contributions.    Few  things,  therefcMre, 
whether  great  or  little,  whether  of  nature  or  of  art, 
whether  belcmging  to  earth  or  to  a  higher  region, 
escape  him ;  he  dart^  upon  them  without  materially 
ioqi^ding  his.cQurpe,  or  hais  the  nurer  art,  in  moist 
of  Imb  deyilitJAns,  to  i»rry  his  i^jjBct  along  with  him, 
H«i  seldom  inde^  stj(^  to  selept ;  he  grasps  at  much 
which  a  severer  judgment  would  reject ;  but  what- 
Qvepr  he  aei^  he  has  the  art  beyotid  any  other  man 
of  putting  to  US4&,  and  his  progress  often  reminds  us 
Qf  a  torrent  sweeping  rock  and  tree  and  earth  along 
with  it»  yet  acquiriiig  additional  power  even  from  the 
heterogeneous  nature  of  its  accumulations.  In  theses 
generally  speaking,  there  is  very  little  of  common 
place,  or  when  a  common  idea  is  used,  it  is  dressed  in 
so  novel  and  attractive  a  garb,  that  we  are  sometimes 
at  a  loss  to  recognize  an  old  acquaintance.    His  con- 
ceptions, without  violent  straining,  are  almost  always 
original.    We  meet  with  things  in  him  which  ar^  to 
be  found  in  no  other  quarter,  which  are  wholly  un- 
expected in  themselves,  and  which  perhaps  scarcely 
any  oqe  ever  before  imagined,  or  at  least  thought  of 
oonjoiniog  and  adapting  to  such  purposes  as  he  had 
in  view.    He  has  drilled  more  extraordinary  and 
bold  auxiliaries  to  the  art  of  persuasion  than  any 
other  orator,  ancient  or  modem;  and  while  their 
novelty  creates  surprise,  we  are  often  at  a  loss  to 
diseoirer  not  only  how  they  get  into  their  new  situa- 


464  LIFE  OF  THS 

tion,  but  by  'what  dexterity  of  mental  magie  they 
are  made  to  play  so  conspicuous  a  part. 
•    At  times  he  seems  on  the  yerge  of  extraTagance, 
not  indeed  that  species  of  it  which  excites  laugliter 
or  contempt,  but  rather  astonishment.    Along  tins 
dangerous  precipice,  dangerous  in  many  respects  to 
an  ambitious  orator  or  writer,  he  treads  in  perfect 
Security,  while  other  and  even  eminent  men  in  at- 
tempting to  pursue  his  track  have  not  been  aUe  to 
preserve  themselves  from    falling  into  absurdity, 
chiefly  because  they  mistake  the  severe  boldness  of 
his  occasionally  figurative  manner  for  a  flowery  man* 
ner,  than  which  no  two  things  can  be  more  opposite ; 
the  fdrmer  being  the  ofi*spring  of  stronger,  the  latter 
in  ^neral,  of  looser  and  weaker  intellectual  powen. 
Nothing  indeed  is  more  peculiar  to  his  impassioned 
style  than  this  difliculty  of  imitation.     To  be  con- 
vinced of  it  let  any  one  take  a  page  or  two  of  anj^  of 
our  English  classics,  Addison  or  Johnson,  for  in« 
stance,  and  aim  at  hitting  off'  their  chief  characterise 
tics,  and  he  may  probably  make  the  resemblance 
re£^>ectable ;  let  him  again  attempt  those  of  Burke, 
and  he  will  almost  certainly  fail ;   he  will  either 
overdo  or  imderdo  it     Even  Mr.  Sheridan,  with  all 
his  genius,  who  had  his  eye  upon  this  great  model  in 
the  early  part  of  his  career  and  in  several  of  his 
speeches  on  the  impeachment,  soon  found  out  that 
the  endeavour  was  almost  hopeless,  and  therefore 
prudently  gave  it  up.*    It  is  remarkable  that  Mr. 

*  Since  the  fint  edition  of  this  memoir  wa^  published,  a  wotk 
already  aUuded  to  (The  Life  of  Sheridan)  has  appeared,  which 
incidentally  corroborates  or  follows,  nearly  every  one  pi  the  viewf 


BIGHT  HON.  ED^fUNB  BURKE. 

« 

Burke  huaouBelf  more  than  once  experienced  tfiat  his 
excellencies  were,  or  were  represented  to  be,  defects, 
and  that  the  very  number  of  his  talents  served  as  a 
handle  to  impair  the  effect  he  expected  to  produce ; 
for  there  is  a  large  dass  of  auditors  to  be  found  in 
the  House  of  Conunons  as  elsewhere,  who  Uiink  that 
an  argument  to  be  good  must  be  dull,  that  wit  in 
the  course  of  it  is  misapplied,  and  that  a  flash  of 
genius  is  a  kind  of  sudden  death  to  the  whole  process 
of  reasoning— an  idea  to  which  even  Mn  Pitt  with 
characteristic  dexterity  was  fond  of  giving  counte- 

the  present  writer  has  taken  of  Burke^  in  the  points  in  which  he 
diSered  from,  and  excelled^  his  great  contemporaries. — 

''  His  (Sheridan's)  attempts^  indeed^  at  the  florid^  or  figurative 
style,  whether  in  his  speeches  or  his  writings^  were  seldom  very 
snccesafuL  That  luxuriance  of  fancy  which  in  Burke  was  natural 
and  indigenous,  was  in  him  rather  a  forced  and  exotic  growtL  It 
is  a  remarkable  proof  of  the  difierence  between  them,  that  while, 
in  the  memorandums  of  speeches  left  behind  by  Burke,  we  find 
that  the  points  of  ailment  or  bumness  were  those  which  he  pre- 
pared, trusting  to  the  ever-ready  wardrobe  of  his  fancy  for  their 
adornment,— in  Mr.  Sheridan's  notes  it  is  chiefly  the  decorative 
passages  that  are  worked  up  beforehand  to  their  fuU  polish;  while 
on  the  resources  of  his  good  sense,  ingenuity,  and  temper,  he  seems 
to  have  relied  for  the  management  of  his  reasonings  and  facts. 
Hence  naturally  it  arises,  that  the  images  of  Burke  being  called 
up  on  the  instant,  like  spirits,  to  perform  the  bidding  of  his  argu- 
ment, minister  to  it  throughout  with  an  almost  co-ordinate  agency; 
while  the  figurative  fancies  of  Sheridan,  already  prepared  for  the 
occasion,  and  brought  forth  to  adorn,  not  assist  the  business  of  the 
discourse,  resemble  rather  those  sprites  which  the  magicians  used 
to  keep  enclosed  in  phiaLs,  to  be  produced  for  a  momentary  en- 
chantment and  then  shut  up  again. 

*'  In  truth,  the  similes  and  illustrations  of  Burke  form  such  an 
intimate,  and  often  essential  part  of  his  reasoning,  that  if  the  whole 
strength  oi  the  Samson  does  not  lie  in  those  luxuriant  locks,  it 
would  at  least  be  considerably  diminished  by  their  loss,  whereas, 


464f  L1F£  OF  THE 

nanoe,  when  he  had  nothk^  better  at  hand  to  offer 
to  the  hard-pushing  and  keen  and  various  powers  of 
his  gifted  adversary. 

It  may  be  true,  that  in  performing  the  frequent 
duty  of  an  Opposition  leader — ^that  of  making  an  elo- 
quent speech  out  of  little  or  nothing — ^he  sometimes, 
on  lighter  matter,  at  least,  delighted  to  play  widi 
his  subject;  to  wanton  in  the  luxuriance  of  his  imagi- 
nation, wit,  and  sarcasm ;  to  dally  and  amuse  him- 
self as  well  as  others  on  the  dull  road  it  was  so  often 

in  the  speech  of  Mr.  Sheridan  (on  the  Begum  charge)  theie  u 
hardly  one  of  the  rhetorical  ornaments  that  might  not  be  detached 
without  in  any  degree  injuring  the  force  of  the  general  state- 
ment. 

**  Anotiher  oonsequenoe  of  this  difierence  between  them  is  ob- 
servable in  their  respective  modes  of  transition  ftasa  what  may  be 
called  the  business  of  a  speech  to  its  more  generalised  and  xlieto- 
lical  parts.  When  Sheridan  rises^  his  elevation  is  not  sufficiently 
prepared ;  he  starts  abruptly  and  at  once  from  the  lev^  of  bis 
statement,  and  sinks  down  into  it  again  with  the  same  saddennesb 
But  Burke,  whose  imagination  never  allows  even  business  to  sab- 
side  into  mere  prose;,  sustains  a  pitch  throughout  which  aocosUMBs 
the  mind  to  wonder,  and  while  it  prepares  us  to  accompany  him 
in  his  boldest  flights,  makes  us,  even  when  he  walks,  still  feel  that 
he  has  wings: — 

'  Mime  quand  Vciseau  marches  on  sent  qu'il  a  des  ailesJ 

"  It  is  surely  a  most  unjust  disparagement  of  the  doquenoe  of 
Burke,  toi'apply  to  it  at  any  time  of  his  life,  the  epithet  'flowery*— 
a  designation  only  applicable  to  l^t  ordinary  ambition  of  style, 
whose  chief  display  by  necessity  consists  of  ornament  witlioot 
thought,  and  pomp  without  substance.  A  succession  of  bright 
images,  dothed  in  simple  transparent  language — even  when,  as  in 
Burke,  they  *  crowd  upon  the  aching  sense'  too  dasslingly — diouM 
never  be  confounded  with  that  mere  verbal  opulence  of  style, 
which  mistakes  the  glare  of  words  for  the  glitter  of  ideas,  and,  like 
the  Helen  of  the  sculptor  Lysippus,  makes  fmery  supply  the  place 
of  beauty." 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND  BURKE.  46B 


hiB  lot  to  travel,  by  giving  a  kind  of  Julnlee  to  Ins 
animal  quints.  But  his  power  over  the  main  ques^ 
tion  was  as  visible  on  these  as  on  more  serious  ooea^ 
sions ;  it  wa&  often  termed  the  ^*  wantonness  of  b1o«- 
quence,'*  and  might  be  called  the  conaciousneas  of 
mental  power ;  he  reminds  us  of  a  horse-soldier  in 
an  engagement,  exercising  preliminary  sabre^flou* 
rishes  over  the  head  of  a  defenceless  enemy  on  foot, 
previous  to  putting  him  to  death.  It  would  be  ha- 
zardous to  pronounee  these  or  any  other  of  his  devi- 
ations misplaced,  for  some  of  the  most  ^kilful  pas^^ 
sages  in  oratory  are  those  wMeh  occasionally  glance 
from  the  main  point  to  prepare  attentipn  for  what 
is  to  follow.  Homer  is  said  to  nod,  and  Burke  may 
occasionally  trifle,  but  both  are  probably  the  effects 
of  design.  Few  subjects  admit  of  continued  ex* 
eifement  of  mind  for  a  length  of  time,  and  ies^  audi^ 
enoes  relish  for  three  or  four  hours  together  what  is 
called  a^continued  chain  of  reasoning.  Rests  are  as 
useful  and  necessary  in  a  long  ^  speech  as  in  a  long 
journey,  and  their  judicious  intermixture;  as  thejr 
occasion  the  least  fatigue,  are  liliely  to  impart  the 
greater  pleasure.  '*  To  have  attained  a  relish  for  bis 
(Mr,  Burke's)  charms,"  says  an  emiaent  critic,  ''  ia 
greatlj  to  have  advanced  in  literature.'' 

Certain  peculiarities  in  his  eloquence,  such  as  the 
strength  of  imagination,  the  vehanence,  the  force  of 
invective,  the  almost  morbid  acuteneas  of  feeling 
(which  nevertheless  is  one  of  the  requisites  to  an 
OKatxnr  to  make  his  hearers  also  feel),  belong  as  much 
perhaps  to  his  country  as  to  the  individual.  Several 
of  the  orators  of  Ireland  exhibit  something  of  the 
same  spirit  in  die  few  specimens  preserved  oi  thf  ir 

VOL.   II.  2  H 


466  LIFE  OF  THE    ' 

most  animated  contentioiis.  Eng^h  Parliamentary 
oratory,  so  far  as  it  is  preserved,  has  little  of  this 
character.  But  the  specimens  of  older  date  are  so  few 
and  imperfect  as  to  make  it  difficult  to  judge,  for 
very  little  exists  previous  to  the  commencement  of  the 
late  reign,  which  gives  us  any  tolerable  idea  of  the 
speeches,  or  style  of  speaking,  of  the  great  names,  in 
our  political  annals.  Even  the  supposed  early  effu- 
sions of  Lord  Chatham  are  well  known  to  derive 
their  chief  merit  from  the  pen  of  Dr.  Johnson, 
who  rarely,  if  at  all,  heard  him  speak  at  that  time, 
and  who  wrote  his  and  the  other  speeches  given 
to  us  as  parliamentary  debates,  sometimes  from 
a  few  meagre  hints,  frequently  from  none  at  all, 
simply  from  knowing  which  side  of  the  argu- 
ment the  speakers  had  taken.  Statesmen. th^  con- 
tended as  if  their  eloquence  was  only  bom  to  die 
with  the  debate  of  die  day;  to  become  for  ever 
extinguished  and  forgotten  in  the  very  spot  which 
gave  it  birth,  leaving  to  posterity  no  memorial  of 
their  noUest  stand  against  an  unconstitutional  mea- 
sure or  Minister,  but  tlie  record  of  the  rejection  of 
the  one,  or  the  dismissal  from  officeof  the  other.  It 
is  also  true  what  Mr.  Burke  somewhere  observes, 
that  debates  a  century  ago  were  comparative  parish- 
vestry  discussions  to  what  they  afterwards  became. 
This  change,  according  to  the  general  belief  of  bis 
contemp<H*aries,  was  chiefly  owing  to  himself.  He  is 
considered,  by  the  enlarged  views,  the  detailed  expo- 
sitions of  policy,  the  intermixture  of  permanent 
truths  bearing  upon  temporary  facts,  and  the  general 
lustre  and  air  of  wisdom  which  he  was  the  first  to 
introduce  4it  large  into  Parliamentaiy  discussion. 


RIGHT   HON.   EbmmQ  BUKKE.  467 

greatly  to  have  exalted  tbie  character  of  Ptuiiame&t 
itself ;  and  by  the  display  of  his  own  characteristiGS, 
to  have  excited  the  emulation  of  others.  No  com- 
pariscm  at  least  can  be  drawn  between  the  tone  and 
value  of  Parliamentary  eloquence  previous  to  his 

-  appearance  there,  and  since. 

As  an  accuser,  his  power  was  truly  terrific ;  he 
has  exhausted  the  whole  compass  of  the  English 
language  in  the  fierceness  of  his  invective  and  the 
bitterness  of  his  censure ;  fur  even  Junius,  with  all 
the.advantages  of  indiscriminate  personality,  private 
scandal,  and  the  mafik  under  which  he  fought,  has 
not  exceeded  him  in  severity,  while  he  falls  infinitely 
short  of  him  in  reach  of  thought,  command  of  lan- 
guage, energy  of  expression,  and  variety  of  reproach. 
Junius  is  more  pungent  in  his  assaults,  Mr.  Burke 
more  powerful ;  Junius  imparts  the  idea  of  keen- 
ness,  Mr.  Burke  of  force ;  Junius  of  possessing 
powers  to  a  certain  d^pree  circumscribed,  Mr.  Burlre 
of  a  magnitude  nearly  boundless ;  Junius  hews  down 
his  victim  with  a  double-edged  sabre,  Mr.  Burke 
fells  him  with  a  sledge-hammer,  and  repeats  his 

,  blow  so  often,  and  in  so  many  different  modes,  that 
few  can  again  recognize  the  carcase  he  has  once 
taken  it  in  hand  to  mangle. 

Much  of  this  wrathful  spirit  arose  from  what  he 
thought  tyranny  or  crime,  or  where  great  public 
offences  or  great  supposed  culprits  were  in  questiott^ 
and  when  he  conceived  himself  bound  to  summon 
up  every  faculty  he  possessed  not  merely  to  over- 
power but  to  destroy  them.  In  reply  to  the  attack 
of  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  though  he  curbs  much  of 
his  natural  vehemence  from  the  provocation  being 

2  H  S 


468  LIFE  OF  THE 

permmai  to  himelf ,  tbefe  is  great  vigour,  wiih  gome* 
thing  of  a  lofty  contempt  of  bis  opponent.  Bat  few, 
if  any^  records  of  exertions  hy  one  man  equal  in 
vdiem^ice  of  censure  or  variety  of  reproadi,  in 
kbour  or  in  talents,  those  against  the  French  Revo- 
lution and  Mr.  Hastings.  Against  tihe  latter  his 
•peedies  ^ere  heard  with  an  awe  lyproarhing  to 
terror ;  and  though  by  some  their  severity  has  been 
censured,  die  best  apologies,  to  which  little  perhaps 
can  be  added,  were  volunteered  at  the  moment  by 
two  political  adversaries,  Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr.  Wilber- 
force ;  *  but  it  must  be  r^nembsred  that  hesolemnly 
denied  having  used  any  of  the  more  offensive  ex- 
pressions and  phrases  which  were  put  into  his  mouth 
by  die  idle  or  designing  rumours  oi  the  day. 

In  the  more  mechanical  part  of  oratory^^elivery, 
his  manner  was  usually  bold,  less  graceful  than  pow- 
erfhl,  his  enunciation  vehement  and  unchecked  by 
any  embarrassment,  his  periods  flowing  and  harmo* 
nious,  his  language  Blways  f<M*cible,  sometimes  choice, 

*  The  latter,  in  an  animated  addresfl^  said,  he  did  not  wonder 
at  the  mind  of  Mr.  Burke  being  wanned,  and  his  feelings  excited, 
by  the  nature  of  the  supposed  crimes  of  the  accused ;  for  he  was 
aware  of  the  transactions  in  India  before  almost  any  one  else;  he 
had  been  brooding  over  them  for  yean ;  and  it  was  natural  far 
hhn  to  see  their  enonnity  in  a  mi^piified  point  of  view.  Mr.  Pitt 
(9ihMay,  1787>)  ''  adnutted  that  he  was  once  of  qpinioii  that  tbe 
language  of  those  who  chiefly  pramoied  the  present  proceeding  was 
tbo  full  of  acerbity,  and  much  too  passionate  and  exaggerated ;  but 
when  he  found  what  the  nature  o^  the  crimes  alleged  was,  and 
how  stvong  the  presunption  tihat  the  aDegaticna  were  true,  lie 
confessed  that  he  could  not  expect  lliat  gentlemen^  when  reciting 
what  they  thought  actions  of  treachery^  actions  of  violence  and 
oppression,  and  demanding  an  investigation  into  those  actions, 
should  speak  a  language  different  from  that  which  would  natu* 
rally  arise  from  the  contemplation  of  such  actions." 


EIGHT   HON.  EBMUKD  BUEKE.  4fi9 

but,  whan  strongly  excited  hy  tiie  sulgect^  acrimo-^ 
nioiiB  or  sarcastic,  his  epithets  numerous,  and  ooeo^ 
aionally  strong  or  coarse,  his  invective  furious,  and 
sometimes  overpowering,  and  to  the  last  he  retained 
much  of  the  Irish  accent,  which,  in. the  opinion  of 
Qiany,  materially  marred  the  power  of  his  eloquence. 
At  times  his  gesticulaticni  was  violent,  his  tone  harsh, 
and  an  halritual,  undulating  motion  of  the  head 
(which  is  alluded  to  in  the  lines  before  quoted  froQi 
Simkin's  Letters)  had  the  appearance  of  indieatijig 
something  of  a  self-confident  or  intractable  spirit ; 
he  seemed  as  if  he  would  command  fully  as  mu^ 
as  he  would  persuade,  the  auditors  of  the  opposite 
benched,  and  the  effect  proved  occasionally  disad* 
vantageous  to  his  views. 

His  speeches,  though  always  abounding  in  instruc- 
tive and  ingenious  matter,  were  isometimes,  like  those 
of  Mr.  Fox,  too  long,  both  orators  sinning  in  this 
respect  from  a  fullness  of  mind  which,  having  once 
begun  to  disburthen  itself,  appeared  inexhaus- 
tible. Three  houi:s  from  each  being  a  common 
effort,  left  nothing  for  any  one  else  on  the  same  side 
to  say.  Some  Members  expressed  discont^tit  ab 
being  thus  thrown  into  the  shade,  particularly  those 
of  Opposition  after  the  quarrel  on  the  French  Revo^ 
lution,  when  one  of  the  principal  is  said  to  have 
complained  of  Mr.  Burke  being  too  much  of  a  mo- 
nopolist in  this  way,  though  he  admitted  him  to  be 
'^  undoubtedly  the  best  informed  man  in  either  HoUse 
of  Parliament,  the  most  eloquent  man,  and  frequently 
the  wittiest  man."  The  three  great  orators  of  the 
age  sinned  in  this  way  nearly  alike.  A  modem 
writer  of  merit  says,  "  Both  orators  (Mr.  Fox  and 
Mr.  Pitt)  were  verbose — ^the  former  by  his  repeti- 


470  LIFE  OF   THE 


tioii»*<4he  latter  by  Ms  amplifioetioiis.'*  To  this  it 
may  be  added,  tliat  llr.  Burke's  fault  was  ffdness— 
a  profuaioii  of  illustrative  matter — mostly  origiiial, 
commonly  powerful,  always  various — ^but  even  va- 
riety will  not  at  all  times  omipensate  for  length. 
This  fault  is  mwe  venial  however  than  that  of 
either  of  his  contemporaries  in  repetitions  or  am^ 
fi^UuxticM.  There  are  moments  indeed  when 
the  best  speakers,  especially  out  of  power,  cannot 
obtain  an  attentive  hearing  from,  hungry  and  impa- 
tient auditors ;  a  debater  must  often  wait  for  the 
moiBiMma  temporajandi ;  and  the  great  subject  of 
this  sketch  himself  particularly  commends  Charles 
Townsbend's  skill  in  this  respect,  as  ^'  hittii^  the 
house  between  wind  and  water/' 

A  description  of  the  manner  as  well  as  of  the 
power  of  Mr.  Burke  in  debate,  by  the  Duke  de  Levis, 
is  interesting  as  coming  from  a  foreigner ;  the  re- 
marks on  his  dress  will  be  thought  not  a  littie  char 
racteristic  of  a  Frenchman's  constitutional  attache 
ment  to  show  and  effect,  in  opposition  to  English 
plainness  and  simplicity.  The  occasion  was  a  de- 
bate on  the  French  Revolution : — 

^*  The  man  whom  I  had  the  greatest  desire  to 
hear  was  the  celebrated  Mr.  Burke,  author  of  the 
Essay  on  the  Sublime  and  Beautiful,  and  often  him- 
self sublime.  At  length  he  rose,  but  in  beholding 
him  I  could  scarcely  recover  from  my  surprise.  I 
had  so  frequently  heard  his  eloquence  compared  to 
that  of  Demosthenes  and  Cicero,  that  my  imagina- 
tion associating  him  with  those  great  names,  had 
represented  him  to  me  in  a  noble  and  imposing  garb. 
I  certainly  did  not  expect  to  find  him  in  the  British 


EIOHT  HOK.  £DMVND  BURKE.  471 

ParHameiit  dressed  in  the  andent  togA;  Bor  was! 
-prepared  to  see  him  in  a  tight  brown  coat,  which 
seemed  to  impede  every  movement,  and,  above  all, 
the  little  bob-wig  with  curls.  *  *  *  In  the  mean  time 
he  moved  into  the  middle  of  the  House,  contrary 
to  the  usual  practice^  for  the  members  speak  standing 
and  uncovered;  not  leaving  their  places.  But  Mr. 
Burke,  with  the  most  natural  air  imaginable,  with 
seeming  humility,  and  with  folded  arms,  began  his 
speech  in  so  low  a  tone  of  voice  that  I  could  scarcely 
hear  him.  Soon  after,  however,  becoming  animated 
by  degrees,  he  described  religicfti  attacked,  the  bonds 
of  subordination  broken,  civil  society  thi^tened  to 
its  foundations ;  and  in  order  to  show  that  England 
could  depend  only  upon  herself,  he  pictured  in 
glowing  colours  the  political  state  of  Europe ;  the 
spirit  of  ambition  and  folly  which  pervaded  the 
greater  part  of  her  governments  ;  the  culpable  apa- 
thy of  some,  the  weakness  of  all.  When  in  the 
course  of  this  grand  sketch  he  mentioned  Spain,  that 
immense  monarchy,  which  appeared  to  have  fallen 
into  a  totall^arthy,  ^  What  can  we  expect,'  said  he, 
*  from  her  ? — ^mighty  indeed,  but  unwieldy — vast  in 
bulk,  but  inert  in  spirit — a  whale  stranded  upon  the 
sea-shore  of  Europe/  The  whole  house  was  silent ; 
all  eyes  were  upon  him,  and  this  silence  was  inter- 
rupted only  by  the  loud  cries  of  hear  !  hear  !  a  kind 
of  accompaniment  which  the  friends  of  the  speaking 
Member  adopt  in  order  to  direct  attention  to  the 
most  brilliant  passages  of  his  speech.  But  these 
cheerings  were  superfluous  on  the  present  occasion ; 
every  mind  was  fixed ;  the  sentiments  he  expressed 
spread  themselves  with  rapidity ;  every  one  shared 


47S  UFK  OF  TB£ 

his  emotion^  whether  he  i^resaited  the  miiiidterB 
of  idigion  proscribed,  inhumanly  persecuted  and  ba- 
nished, imploring  the  Ahnighty  in  a  foreign  land  to 
forgive  their  ungratefnl  country;  or  when  he  de- 
]»eted  in  the  most  affecting  manner  the  misfortunes 
of  the  Royal  Family^  and  the  humiliation  of  the 
dau^ter  of  the  Gf^ars.  Every  eye  was  bathed  in 
tears  at  the  recital  of  these  sad  calamities  su^qported 
with  such  heroic  fortitude.  Mr.  Burke  then,  by  an 
easy  transition,  pai^^  on  to  the  exposition  of  those 
absurd  attempts  of  inexperienced  men .  to  estaUiah 
a  chimmcal  liberty ;  nor  did  he  spare  the  petulant 
vanity  of  upstarts  in  their  pretended  love  for  equa* 
Uty.  The  truth  of  these  strikiis^  and  animated  pie* 
tares  made  the  whole  House  pass  in  an  instant  from 
the  t^[|derest  emotaops  of  feeling  to  bursts  of  laugh* 
ter ;  nev^  was  the  electiic  power  of  eloquence  ttiore 
imperiously  felt ;  this  extraordinary  man  seined  to 
raise  and  quell  the  passions  of  his  a;udi(iors  with  as 
much  ease,  and  as  rfq»idly,  as  a  skilful  musician 
passes  into  the  various  modulations  of  his  haipsi- 
chprd.  I  have  witnessed  many,  too  many  political 
assemblages  and  striking  scenes  where  eloquence 
performed  a  noble  part,  but  the  whole  of  them  ap» 
pear  insipid  when  compared  with  this  ^mazkig 
effort."  * 

*  Tastes  proTerbially .  difier.  Having  therefore  heard  a  fo» 
reigner  upon  the  maimer  of  Burke,  let  us  attend  to  a  iiTal  ontor 
of  our  own  countty,  who  must>  however,  be  list^D^d  to  iii  tUs 
matter  by  the  reader  with  many  grains  of  allowance*  The  ane^ 
dote  appears  in  a  note  to  the  life  of  Dr.  £.  D.  Clarke,  the  traveller, 
from  a  memorandum  kept  by  bim. 

**  Monday,  July  5, 1S19* — ^While  we  were  watting  at 
Lodge  for  ^e  deputation  £eom  the  Senate  |o  oonduet  the 


RIGHT  HOOr.   EDMUKD  BUEKE.  478 

Ckmsidetable  differenoe  of  manner  may  be  ob* 
served  in  his  speedhes  and  writings,  the  former  bav- 

cellor,  I  had  a  oonversadon  with  Lard  Erskine  upon  the  qualificar 
tions  of  Burke  as  an  orator.  Lord  Erskine  said  that  his  defect 
was  episode.  *  A  public  speaker^'  said  he^  '  should  never  'be  epi* 
sodtcalr^it  is  a  reiy  great  mistake.  I  hold  it  to  be  a  rule  respect* 
ing  public  qpeaking,  which  ought  nerar  to  be  vidated^  that  the 
speaker  should  not  Introduoe  into  his  oratory  insular  brilliant  pas- 
sages— ^thej  always  tend  to  call  off  the  minds  of  his  hearers^  and 
to  make  them  wander  from  what  ought  to  be  the  main  business  of 
his  speech.  If  he  wish  to  introduce  brilliant  passages,  ikey  skoM 
Hin  edong  ike  line  of  hi$  tubjeel  maUer,  and  never  quit  it.  Burke^s 
episodes  were  hi^y  beautiful — I  know  pothing  tmjre  beoutifttl, 
but  they  were  his  defects  in  speaking.'  Then  he  introduced  one 
of  his  most  beautiful  episodes,  taken  from  a  speech  on  the  American 
war ;  and  repeated  by  heart  the  whole  of  that  part  of  the  speech 
in  which  he  introducies  the  quotation  'Acta  Parentbm/  &e.  '^aU 
this'  said  he>  'is  very  beautiful,  but  it  ou^^t  to  be  avoided.  Now 
1  will  give  you  another  specimen  from  his  speedies  on  the  same 
war,  in  which  his  oratory  is  perfect^^whete  the  most  commoB, 
^miliar,  and  even  low  teobnieal  expressions  are  made  to  blend 
themselves  with  the  finest  passages;  iind  where  having  lull  pos- 
aesflkni  of  the  minds  of  his  hearers,  he  never  lets  them  go  bom 
him  for  an  instant'    Then  he  repeated  all  that  speech. 

*'  Lord  EiskiDe  also  told  me  that  Burke's  manner  was  sometimes 
bad — ^ii  woe  like  that  of  an  Irish  chairman.'  '  Once,'  said  h^  '  I 
was  so  tired  of  hearing  him  in  a  debate  upon  the  India  bill,  that 
not  liking  he  should  see  me  leave  the  House  of  Commons  while 
ks  was  apeaking,  I  cvept  along  under  the  benches  and  got  oa^ 
and  went  to  the  Isle  of  Wight.  Afterwards  that  very  ^eech  df 
his  was  publiflhed,  and  I  found  it  to  be  so  extremely  beautiful 
tkat  I  ochuMf  utore  U  into  pieces  hf  readmg  it' " 

Upon  this  piece  of  conversational  criticisn,  if  correctly  reported 
by  Dr.  Clarke  a  few  words  may  not  be  nxisidaoed. 

The  tone  of  it  belongs  to  that  vague  and  lareless  oommon'^plaoe 
rattle  in  which  Lord  Erskine  frequently  indulged,  vri^ut  much 
considering  thepredse  import  of  his  wards.  The  |)lsce  was  somewhat 
odd;  ibr  as  Burke,  Dr.  Jdmson  has  tdd  us,  was  great  even  when 
encoimtered  caffially  under  agotonvi^,  so.  Lord  Eiskia^  who  it  is 


474  LIFE  OF  THE 

ing  a  more  rapid,  yehement,  freeddm  of  style,  throw- 
ing off  shorter  and .  less  finished,  though  not  less 
spirited  sketches  than  the  latter ;  there  is  likewise 
more  aim  at  effect,  the  sentences  shorter  and  more 
epigrammatic,  and  the  subject  on  the  whole  more 
condensed.  A  belief  prevailed  for  a  short  time  in 
the  early  part  of  his  career  of  their  being  written 
previous  to  delivery — an  impression  arising  from 
their  admitted  superiority  over  those  of  his  cont^n- 
poraries ;  but  this  was  not  the  case.  He  meditated 
deeply,  and  was  sometimes  heard  to  express  his 
thoughts  aloud.  On  new,  or  very  important  ques- 
tions, he  committed  some  of  the  chief  heads  of  his 


well  known  had  this  great  example  frequendy  in  his  eye,  thought 
he  could  not  do  less  than  attempt  something  worth  recording  when 
conversing  in  an  anticipated  interview  with  a  Professor  in  a  Uni- 
vendty  lodge.  The  time  was  peculiar,  for  it  was  at  a  period  when 
his  lordship  was  said  to  have  outlived  not  only  his  reputation,  hut 
his  faculties.  The  subject  likewise  is  worthy  of  notice  ;  for  these 
orations^,  though  oeitainly  not  more  perfect  than  any  other  human 
productions,  he  had  three  years  hefore  at  Edinburgh  pronoiinoed 
to  he  immortal  and  inimitable,  and  in  his  own  oratory  had  oc- 
casionally attempted  to  imitate  their  style;  but  having,  like  She- 
ridan, failed  in  the  design,  had,  like  him  also,  soon  given  it  up  ; 
besides,  he  has  himself  told  us,  that  ''^he  had  transcribed  with  his 
own  hand  all  the  most  admirable  passages  in  tiie  writings  and 
speeches  of  this  most  extraordinary  man." 

His  general  remarks  on  episode  (though  these  were  not  original^ 
but  borrowed  from  a  contemporary  journal  of  criticism)  may,  or 
may  not  be  true;  they  prove  nothing;  for  such  tilings  depend 
upon  times,  circumstances,  and  situations,  to  which  general  nilea 
do'  not  apply.  Some  of  the  finest  tilings  to  be  met  with  in  oretory 
are  in  their  nature  episodical.  Whether  Burke's  episodes  be  im- 
properly introduced  is  a  question  to  be  decided  by  taste,  and  a  con- 
sideration of  circumstances,  rather  than  by  an  abstract  critical 
dogma.    In  the  speech  .on  American  taantion,  for  instance,  the 


RIGHT  HON.  £BMUKD  BURKE.  475 

aigument  to  paper,  but  for  the  language  in  which 
*it  was  conveyed,  the  colouring,  illustration,  and  the 
whole  artillery  of  that  forcible  diction  and  figurative 
boldness  in  which  he  has  not  merely  no  equal,  but 
no  competitor,  he  trusted  to  a  wellnstored  mind, 
a  retentive  memory,  and  a  readiness  which,  from 
constant  discipline  in  the  school  of  debate,  never 
foiled  him. 

As  to  his  published  speeches  we  have  the  autho* 
rity  of  Gibbon  who  heard  them,  as  well  as  of  still 
more  intimate  friends,  for  the  truth  of  the  fact  that 
they  received  no  embellishments  in  passing  through 
the  press.    It  is  well  known  indeed  that  the  frag- 


characters  drawn  of  Charles  Townshend,  George  Grenville^  and 
Lord  Chatham^  may>  hy  many  readers,  be  deemed  too  much  in  the 
nature  of  episode ;  yet,  independent  of  their  beauty,  they  are  not 
without  much  of  that  very  test  of  propriety  which  Lord  Erddne 
expressly  specifies,  namely,  running  along  the  Une  of  kU  whjed* 
So  of  his  deviations  in  other  speeches  from  the  direct  line  of 
march  of  his  argument. 

The  obseryation  of  his  lordship  as  to  Burke's  manner*  being 
like  that  of  *  an  Irish  chairman*  is  an  extravagant  exaggeration  ; 
and  the  story  of  creeping  along  under  the  benches  (if  taken  liter* 
ally)  must  be  a  positive  untruth,  for  such  a  thing  was  not  practi- 
cable. The  whole  conversation  bears  traces  of  that  loose  juveni- 
lity of  manner  to  which  he  was  prone,  but  to  which  no  great 
weight  can  be  attached  from  the  terms  in  which  it  is  given. 
Burke,  on  the  floor  of  the  House  of  Commons,  was,  as  has  been 
already  said  in  this  work,  sometimes  unduly  positive— sometimes 
dictatorial  in  his  mode  of  address ;  but  vulgarity  was  as  wholly 
foreign  to  his  manner,  either  in  public  or  private,  as  to  his  mind. 

*  Of  Lord  £rskine*s  own  manner  Lord  Byron  sarcastically  ob- 
served, that  ''it  was  true  he  had  never  heard  him  at  the  bar,  but 
after  hearing  him  in  the  House  he  had  no  further  wish  to  hear 
him  any  where." 


476  LIFE   OF   THE 

ments  preserved  of  several  of  them  were  written 
down  after  and  not  before  delivery,  asssisted  by  the 
notes  and    recollection  of  different    Members,  his 
friends,  and  not  unfreqnently  of  the  public  reporters. 
A  writer  oi  consideration,*  however,  seems  to 
insinuate  that  the  speeches  actually  delivered  in 
Parliament  differed  from  those  that  issued  from  tbe 
press.     This  is  a  misrepresentation ;   unintentional 
no  doubt,  though  not  unexpected  from  a  Foxite,  who 
must  always  be  excused  where  the  credit  of  his  prin- 
cipal is  in  question,  and  he  admits  that  there  is  nothing 
in  Fox  or  Pitt,  or  indeed  in  any  other  orator  up  to 
Cicero,  to  be  compared  in  any  degree  with  the  pub^ 
lished  speeches  of  Burke.    If  there  be  in  reality,  as  he 
states,  any  difference  between  the  speeches  uttered  and 
the  speeches  printed,  it  must  be  remembered  that  he 
AfW^  published  no  speech  after  that  on  the  Nabob 
of  Arcot's  debts  in  1785,  except  an  abstract  of  that 
on  the  army  estimates  in  1790 ;  and  therefore  is  not 
responsible  for  any  variations  there  may  be  in  the 
reports  given  of  them  from  what  he  actuaUy  deli- 
vered.    Up  to  the  period  in  question,  or  nearly  so. 
Gibbon,  who  was  opposed  to  him  in  politics,  had  to 
listen  to  him  night  after  night,  assailing  not  only 
the  Ministry  generally,  but  more  especially  the  very 
oflice  (that  of  a  Lord  of  Trade)  which  he  held,  and 
who  therefore,  it  may  be  presumed,  looked  pvetty 
sharply  to  what  he  said.     The  historian  gives  us  his 
testimony  expressly  as  is  here  stated.     He  is  there- 
fore directly  opposed  to  the  writer  in  question ;  and 
of  his  superior  means  of  judging,  from  being  a  Mem- 

*  Mr.  Charles  Butler — Remiiiisoences^  p.  166. 


RIGHT   KOV.   BDMTJND  BURKE.  477 

ber  of  the  House  and  a  eonstaift  attendant  upon  it, 
there  can  be  no  dispute. — But  it  should  ever  be 
borne  in  mind  hy  the  reader;  that  no  man  who  con*' 
aiders  Mr.  Fox's  line  of  politics  in  1798  prudent  or 
wise,  or  who  thinks  that  the  French  revolutionary 
war  was  unnecessary,  or  could  have  been  avoided, 
ought  ever  to  trust  himself  with  speaking  of  Mr^ 
Burke.— There  is  a  fog  ovear  his  mental  vision  which 
distorts  every  object  in  that  line  of  view  which  he 
looks  at. 

HIS  WRITINGS. 

Next  to  the  thirst  for  oratorical  renown,  perhaps 
quite  equal  to  it  in  degree,  Mr.  Burke  aimed  at 
acquiring  weight  and  celebrity  by  his  pen ;  seeming 
to  think  that  fame  in  the  senate  never  reached  its 
highest  value  until  stamped  by  the  approving  seal 
of  the  press.  Avaricious,  as  it  appears,  of  excel- 
lence, he  grasped  at  superiority  in  both  modes  of 
distinction,  desirous  to  show  the  world  that  though 
hi  a  series  of  2000  years  {with  the  single  exception 
of  Lord  Bolingbroke,  if  he  can  be  deemed  an  excep- 
tion) one  of  them  had  been  found  sufficient  for  the 
£EU!ulties  of  any  one  man,  hie  at  least  possessed  the 
ability  to  write  with,  if  possible,  still  more  power 
than  he  covld  speak.  Of  this  sort  of  distinction  he 
judged,  and  judged  truly,  that  no  superior  party 
influenqe,  no  mere  personal  attachments,  no  jealousy, 
BO  misrepresentation  either  by  Whig  or  Tory,  no 
weight  of  purse,  no  family  connexion  however  high, 
could  deprive  him  ;  for  the  world  at  large  is  a  tole- 
rably impartial  tribunal. 

Yet  as  men  have  an  obvious  aversion  to  the  union 


478  LIFE  OF  THE 


in  any  one  person,  tiie  moment  he  was 
pronomiced  the  greatest  writer  of  the  age — a  verdict 
which  none  even  of  YA  adyersaries  has  withhdd — 
some  attempts  were  made  to  question,  what  was  never 
questioned  before«that  time,  his  power  in  the  House 
of  Commons ;  exemplifying  the  remark  of  Dr.  Parr 
when  speaking  of  him  ;  '<  There  is  an  unwillingness 
in  the  world  to  admit  that  the  same  man  has  ex- 
celled in  various  pursuits ;  yet  Burke's  compositions, 
diversified  as  they  are  in  their  nature,  though  eadi 
excelling  in  its  kind,  who  does  not  read  with  in- 
struction and  delight  ?  "  When  this  was  written  it 
must  be  remembered  the  French  Revolution  had  not 
taken  place,  and  consequently  half  his  str^sgth  re- 
mained still  unknown.  That  event  drew  it  forthwith 
indescribable  effect.  He  had  to  contend  with  umA 
of  the  political,  and  by  far  the  greater  part  of  the 
literary  strength  of  the  country,  at  least  that  portion 
of  it  which  was  seen  most  frequently  in  the  press, 
without  a  single  second  of  even  moderate  talents  in 
the  literary  dass,  to  assist  him,  yet  he  overpowered 
them  all.  His  arm  was  indeed  so  irresistible  as  to 
give  countenance  to  the  general  opinion  that  no 
allies  *  were  necessary  to  one  who  was  in  himself  an 

*  An  anecdote  of  one  of  the  ablest  exhibits  anotfaer  i««fr«*w^i> 
of  Mr.  Burke's  chaiacieristic  Idndness.  The  present  Serjeant 
Godd,  of  the  Irish  bar/  then  an  aspiring  but  briefless  barrister, 
excited  by  admiration  of  the  ^*  Reflections  on  the  Rerolution  in 
France/'  and  of  their  great  author,  and  then  lately  returned  fiom 
Paris,  where  he  had  witnessed  the  practical  effects  of  tiie  new 
system  of  liberty,  wrote  a  xeply  to  several  of  Mr.  Burke's  assail- 
ants. At  this  time  he  was  wholly  unknown  to  the  latter.  Some 
time  afterwards,  however,  he  received  in  Dublin  a  letter  from 
Um,  stating  that  he  had  not  forgotten  his  obliging  pamjddet,  and 


RIGHT  HON.  BDMUND  BURKE.  479 

army ;  for  aid  would  be  more  likely  to  enfiBeble  than 
to  support  him — and  the  advice  given  l^  an  acute 
writer  was  in  consequence  literally  followed  ^-^ 

«*  — __ ; — _-  In  rensUeflB  profe> 

Leave  Bazke  Akme  to  thunder  cm  our  foes*" 

PmrmtiU  of  IMerahire.  * 

It  was  therefore  with  great  propriety,  in  allusion 
to  his  power  over  public  opinion  even  some  years 
previous  to  the  French  Revolution,  that  Boswell, 
who  knew  him  so  well,  in  a  pamphlet  published  in 
1785,  applied  to  him  the  words  of  Virgil— -i 

Regum  cquabat  opes  animis. 

It  was  early  remarked  among  his  characteristics 
that  to  a  perseverance  not  to  be  overcome,  to  the 
greatest  original  genius,  and  to  extraordinary  ac- 
quirements, he  joined  in  the  discussion  of  a  subject 
unusual  comprehensiveness  of  outline  with  minute 
knowlec^  and  accuracy  of  detail* 

What  he  says  of  Alfred  the  Great,  in  the  Essay 
on  English  History  (p.  297»  8vo.  edit.)  may,  with 
strict  truth  be  applied  to  the  distinguishing  featiures 
of  his  own  mind-^*'  In  a  word,  he  comprehended  in 

that  he  begged  leave  to  return  the  favour  by  giving  Um  an  intro- 
duction that  might  be  serviceable  to  his  interests ;  for  Earl  Fits« 
wilHam^  the  new  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  being  to  spend  a 
few  days  with  him  at  fieaconsfield  before  his  departure,  if  he 
would  come  over  and  join  the  party,  he  mif^t  find  the  excursion 
neither  unpleasant  nor  unpmfitaUe.  Mr.  Goold,  after  some  diffi- 
culty in  raising  the  maierid  for  the  journey,  came,  but  too  late ; 
the  society  of  such  a  man,  however,  well  compensated  the  trou- 
ble ;  and  he  returned  to  Dublin  widi  such  letters  of  introduction 
as  #ould  have  had  due  weight,  had  the  noUe  Earl  continued  in 
that  government. 


480  LIFB  OF  THB 

the  greatnesB  cf  faia  inmd  thcf  wh^e  c}f  g<9V!sriiiiieiit; 
and  all  its  parts  at  onte ;  rad  wbat  is  most  difficult 
to  human  frailtjr,  was  at  the  same  time  sufoUme  and 
minute." 

The  reader  of  his  works  will  be  frequently  led  to 
appiopriate  this  remark  to  him  who  made  it^  by  ob- 
serving his  eagemesii  to  embrace  the  whole  of  a  sub- 
ject, to  leave  no  part  of  it  unsifted,  to  place  it  in  every 
variety  of  light,  and  to  apply  every  possible  illustra- 
tion ;  to  turn  it  back  and  front,  inside  and  out,  upside 
and  down,  so  that  no  point  likely  to  afford  aid  to  the 
investigation  of  truth  shall  pass  unexamined.     This, 
which  is  one  of  the  first  merits  of  a  fair  disputant, 
was  also  his  natural  disposition.     He  cannot  bear, 
apparently,  to  blink  or  narrow  a  question,  even . wh«i 
doing  so  may  be  supposed  favourable  to  his  views^ 
but  sometimes  gives  the  first  hint  of  a  difficulty  in 
order  to  show  his  skill  in  overcoming  it  Itiscontraiy 
to  the  nature  of  the  man  to  be  pent  up  within  a  snokall 
compass ;  he  must  have  room ;  give  him  veni  or  he 
continually  threatens  to  explode  and  overwlrelm  yow^ 
He  can  no  mme  be  thrust  up  into  the  sta^aileiied 
comer  of  a  subject~a  trick  which  the  {wadtised 
debater  and  reasoner  plays  off  on  the  more  inexpe- 
rienced—^Iban  you  can  squeeze  an  elephant  into  the 
cage  of  a  parrot ;  for  the  cast  of  his  frame  is  too 
ponderous,  and  his  ^perceptions  too  acute,  to  submit 
to  be  eai;^ht  in  a  trap  which  is  commonly  set  to 
hamper  the  unwary.     He  seldom  takes  a  topic  in 
hand  without  so  far  exhausting  it,  that  we  find  little 
interest,  and  frequently  very  little  profit,  in  follow- 
ing any  one  else  in  the  same  track  of  argmnent. 
One  of  his  chief  excellencies  is  in  being  an  original 


BIOHT  HON,  SOlfUND  BUBKE.  481 


and  profound  thinker.  He  ccmtinuaUy  strikes  out 
something  which  is  either  new^  or  new  in  the  oon** 
nexion  in  which  it  stands,  and  has  contrived  to  throw 
together  more  numerous  and  important  political 
truths,  intermixed  with  a  great  variety  of  moral 
truths  drawn  from  acquaintance  with  the  world, 
than  any  other  writer  on  public  affairs.  The  same 
profundity  of  thought  which  qualifies  him  to  make 
BO  many  discoveries  in  his  progress,  enables  him  also 
to  dispel  a  variety  of  errors.  He.  traces  a  propoei* 
tion  up  to  its  source,  and  from  its  source  through 
all  its  ramifications,  so  that  if  there  be  a  fallacy  in 
any  part  he  is  pretty  sure  to  detect  it.  Axioms  and 
opinions  relative  to  our  domestic  politics,  which 

» 

were  scarcely  ever  before  doubted,  are  no  sooner 
touched  by  him  than  they  prove  to  be  weak  or  ques- 
tionable; several  which  might  be  mentioned  he  has 
wholly  overthrown. 

The  desire  thoroughly  to  dear  the  way  before,  him, 
to  afford  the  fullest  information,  and  to  leave  noliiing 
unexplained  or  unanswered,  has .  given  rise  to  the 
charge  of  his  being  diffuse.  Diffuseness,  however, 
implies  something  of  weakness  and  verbosity ;  and 
he  must  be  a  hardy  critic  who  shall  venture  to  de« 
dare  that  these  are  in  any  degree  characteristic  of 
his  writings.  He  may  be  full;  unnecessarily  so  per- 
haps in  the  opinions  of  some,  but  this  abundance 
presents  ample  matter  for  the  exerdse  of  the  under- 
standing ;  there  is  no  accumulation  of  sentences  to 
spin  out  a  thought,  no  mere  verbiage ;  but  on  alt 
occasions  a  corresponding  infhix  of  ideas  which 
open  out  great  truths,  enlarge  the  bounds  or  add  to 
the  particulars,  of  knowledge,  or  unveil  the  latent 

VOL.   II.  2   I 


/ 


4ftft  LIFC  OF  TH£ 

tpring^  of  hwnan  passions  and  aclmis  as  thef  ope- 
rate <Mi  those  human  institiitions  wfaidi  so  nnidi  of 
his  life  was  emj^ojed  in  improving  or  defending ; 
and  thejr  serve  to  make  us  not  merefy*  wiser  pcdili- 
dans  but  mudi  wiser  men. 

We  rise  from  the  perusal  of  his  labours,  satisfied 
that  we  have  not  spent  our  time  in  diflcnsaioBB 
merely  applicable  to  temporary  or  party  intetcste. 
There  is  a  conviction  of  knowing  what  we  did  not 
know  before,  of  feeling  something  whieh  we  did  not 
before  feel,  like  permanent  enlargement  cS  mind ; 
and  this  probaUy  arises  from  the  influence  of  that 
combination  of  qualities  which  constitute  his  peculiar 
greatness ;  by  finding  genius  blended  widi  knowled^; 
di^^ance  of  exposition  with  depth  of  thought;  in- 
genuity with  solidity;  principles  with  facts;  phi- 
losophy with  practical  politics ;  maxims  of  abstract 
wisdom,  with  those  of  his  own  experience  among 
men ;  serving  to  bear  upon,  to  illustrate,  and  toex- 
plain  each  other.  To  this  task  the  mere  politician, 
or  the  mere  philosopher,  would  have  been  equally  in- 
competent; it  is  the  rare  union  of  the  characters 
which  gives  that  d^ree  of  value  to  his  writings  so 
as  to  cause  them  to  be  quoted  every  night  in  both 
Houses  of  Parliament,  as  the  greatest  autliority  of 
our  time.  And  this  testimony  cannot  well  be  dis- 
puted as  partial,  since  it  is  borne  by  Wh^  and 
Tories,  by  Ministry,  and  by  Opposition,  by  bD 
grades  in  political  opinion — ^LordsOrenville,  London- 
derry, and  Erskine-— and  by  almost  every  other  man 
of  talents  and  celebrity,  who  have  united  (in  this  in- 
stance at  least  if  in  no  other)  to  pronounce  them,  in 
tbeir  place  in  Parliament,  immortal. 


BIOHT  RON.  £DMI7ND  BtmEE.  48S 

Their  influenoe  upon  the  public  miad  at  large  haa 
long  been  admitted.  To  them  we  owe  not  onty 
much  of  that  system  of  policy  which  has  saved  Eng- 
land and  all  Europe  from  that  subjugation  which 
France,  whether  influenced  by  National  Convention, 
Directory,  Consuls,  or  Emperor,  has  peraeveringly 
attempted ;  but  also  the  chief  arguments  in  support 
o£  that  policy  urged  in  Parliament  during  the  last 
twenty  years*  On  a  variety  of  other  great  questions 
of  national  interest,  Mr.  Burke's  influence  is  nearly 
as  great.  He  has  anticipated  much  of  what  is  daily 
urged  on  many  of  the  most  populiur  ^pics ;  while 
many  even  of  the  most  brilliant  passages,  in  the 
very  best  speeches  in  both  Houses,  whether  in 
reasoning  or  in  rhetorical  art  and  address,  are  im- 
mediately obvious  to  the  diligent  reader  of  his  works, 
as  but  repetitions  of  his  thoughts  and  manner ;  some- 
times in  his  own  language,  often  with  little  varia^ 
tion,  the  speakers  probably  not  aware  at  the  momait 
of  die  source  whence  they  borrow. 

The  same  remark  applies  to  several  of  our  popular 
writers,  miscellaneous  as  well  as  those  devoted  to 
the  discussion  of  public  affairs — ^pamphletteers,  re- 
viewers, and  political  essapsts.  His  works  form 
their  chief  stock  in  trade ;  the  mine  from  which  ig 
dug  out  their  most  sterling  ore;  the  aliment  on 
which  they  exist ;  the  bread  and  beef,  and  wine,  on 
which  they  daily  feed  and  fatten ;  his  ideas  dissected 
out  of  their  connecting  positions,  and  hashed  up  in 
some  new  form  to  suit  the  particular  tastes  of  the 
writers,  or  the  voracious  appetite  of  the  public,  for 
something  new,  and  strong,  and  striking,  but  still 

2  I  S 


484  LIFE  OF    THE 

substantially  his  ideas.  Few  of  these  persons,  it  may 
be  added,  have  grace  enough  fully  to  acknowledge 
their  obligations. 

His  phraseology  is  another  characteristic  and 
popular  feature,  on  which  contributions  are  levied 
in  all  the  popular  publications  of  the  age,  to  an 
extent  of  which  many  readers  have  little  conception. 
They  are  often  of  a  very  original  cast,  unusually 
forcible,  expressive,  and  often  condense  much  mean- 
ing within  a  small  compass.  In  the  use  of  epithets 
he  is  too  free  and  unguiEurded ;  they  were  mostly  the 
offspring  of  vehement  feeling  in  debate,  but  at  any 
time,  perhaps,  form  a  weak  point  in  oratory, 
as  being  open  to  the  charge  of  exaggeration,  or 
to  omtradiction,  reprehension,  and  sometimes  to 
ridicule. 

He  is  almost  the  first  of  our  writers,  for  Junius 
cannot  be  said  to  have  preceded  him,  who  has  thrown 
the  rays  of  genius  and  eloquence  over  political  dis- 
cussion ;  previous  to  his  time,  a  political  book,  and 
a  dull  book,  were  nearly  synonymous  terms.  Lord 
Bolingfaroke's  pieces  form  perhaps  the  only  ecceep- 
tion  to  this  remark,  though  many  do  not  admit 
him  to  be  an  exception,  as  his  writings,  political 
and  philosophical,  are  now  nearly  forgotten;  and 
he  has  neither  that  firm  ground-work  of  truth, 
that  vigour  of  reasoning  or  of  language,  that  varieiy 
and  sjdendour  of  genius,  which  Mr.  Burke  has  em- 
ployed in  communicating  abstract  truth  and  in  dis- 
cussing subjects  not  in  themselves  of  the  most 
enlivening  description,  but  which  acquire  spirit  and 
vivacity  under  his  management ;  for  while  his  argu- 
ment clears  the  road,  his  flashes  of  genius  and  his 


AIOHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  485 

wH  enliven,  his  imagination  adorns  it.  Scarcely  any 
other  man  but  himself  cotild  have  produced  such 
speeches  as  he  has  left  us  on  the  unplromising  topics 
of  economical  Reform,  and  on  the  debts  of  the  Nabob 
of  Arcot. 

A  minute  critic  may  find  in  his  numerous  writings 
traces  of  three,  or  even  more,  different  sorts  of  styles, 
or  shades  of  the  same  style,  adapted  no  doubt,  like  a 
skilful  rhetorician,  to  the  nature  of  the  topic  on  which 
he  had  to  treat.  The  Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord,  a  con- 
siderable part  of  the  Reflections  on  the  Revolution 
in  France,  and  large  portions  of  his  Speeches,  may* 
be  taken  as  specimens  of  a  highly  poetical  and  im- 
passioned style :  the  Thoughts  on  the  Discontents, 
the  Letter  to  the  Sheriffs  of  Bristol,  to  Sir  Hercules 
Langrishie,  and  others  on  Irish  and  French  Affairs, 
with  the  Thoughts  on  Regicide  Peace,  and  perhaps 
the  Essay  on  the  Sublime  and  !^autiful,  as  coming 
under  the  denomination  of  his  middle  style:  the 
Charges  against  Mr.  Hastings,  which  are  drawn  up 
with  uncommon  skill,  the  Addresses  to  the  King, 
and  to  the  Americans,  on  the  proposed  Secession 
from  Parliament  in  1777,  the  Historical  Articles  in 
the  Annual  Register  for  several  years,  and  his 
Abridgment  of  English  History,  as  his  plainest  or 
grave  style.  The  Vindication  of  Natural  Society, 
and  the  Account  of  the  European  Settlements  in 
America,  differ  perhaps  in  some  degree  from  each  of 
these  as  well  as  from  each  other.  And  the  short 
account  of  a  Short  Administriation,  and  the  Appeal 
from  the  New  to  the  Old  Whigs,  present  a  diff(^« 
ence  in  manner  from  the  whole  of  the  others. 

His  letters,  generally  speaking,  though  with  several 


486  LIFE  OF  TH£ 

exoeptioiis,  bdang  to  his  plain  style.  In  noAin^ 
are  his  powers  more  evident  than  in  his  oorreBpoiKU 
ence,  kept  up  for  thirty  years,  with  the  most  end- 
nait  men  in  the  country,  and  with  several  foreigBerB 
of  distinction,  some  of  which  have  been  already  pub- 
lished, while  others  of  high  character  are  hereafter 
to  appear ;  thou^  few  can  be  expected  to  exceed 
the  letters  to  Barry.  They  partake  generally  of  mudi 
of  the  instructive  character  of  his  writings,  and  of 
the  same  force  of  observation,  though  often  expressed 
with  more  elegance  than  he  employs  in  his  publica- 
tions ;  some  of  them,  without  losing  any  thing  of 
epistolary  ease,  amount  almost  to  disquisitions  on 
the  subjects  on  which  they  touch,  especially  on  pub- 
lic affairs,  and  on  criticism.  In  vivacity,  which  many 
esteem  the  chief  recommendation  of  a  familiar  letter- 
writer,  he  is  deficient,  evidently  not  firom  want  of 
power,  but  of  inclination  to  deal  in  mere  pleasantry 
upon  paper ;  his  aim  was  rather  to  inform  than  to 
amuse. 

Allusions  have  been  already  made  in  this  woik, 
to  a  vulgar  though  frequent  error — ^frequent  at  leart 
among  those  who  know  little  of  the  original,  or  wfao^ 
possessing  little  critical  discrimination,  confound 
two  things  essentially  different — that  his  style  is 
flowery.  Not  only  is  this  not  the  case,  but  it  may 
be  questioned  whether  it  can  be  called  an  ornamented 
style,  all  the  common  characters  of  such  a  style,  as 
it  is  exhibited  by  others,  being  at  variance  with 
those  peculiarities  which  distinguish  the  productions 
of  Mr.  Burke,  If  a  definition  be  required  of  its 
nature,  it  will  be  difficult  to  give  this  without  peri- 


RIGHT   HON.   BDMUNJ^   BUMkfi.  487 

phraas,  but  it  may  be  termed  an  impassioned  atyk* 
the  product  of  ardent  genius  and  strong  feelings 
studded  with  some  bold  figures,  not  laid  on  for  the 
aake  of  ornament,  but  springing  out  of  the  intaojsrty 
of  his  conceptions;  meant  not  to  adorn,  but  to  am* 
Yey  a  more  perfect  imdge  to  the  mind.  Of  these 
figures  mudi  is  occasionally  said ;  yet  they  are  on 
the  whole  less  remarkable  for  number,  than  for  a 
certain  daring  originality  of  feature  not  to  be  foimd 
in  any  other  orator,  and  in  none  of  our  poets,  ex* 
cept  in  some  of  the  most  sublime  conceptions  of 
Paradise  Lost ;  and  their  effect  usually  is  to  sink 
deep  into  the  mind,  and  to  be  recalled  by  memory 
as  things  worthy  of  recollection,  when  the  same  idea 
eaqpressed  in  common  language,  would  have  been  for- 
gotten probably  as  soon  as  heard.  A  figure,  there- 
fore, such  as  Burke  commonly  uses,  is  wholly  dis^ 
tinct  in  its  nature  from  mere  ornament ;  it  may 
rather  be  considered  an  appeal  to  the  judgment 
through  the  attractive  medium  of  the  imagination. 
In  the  conception,  he  aims  much  less  at  the  beauti- 
Ail,  than  at  the  great,  the  striking,  and  the  sublime ; 
often  he  is  eminently  happy  in  their  nature,  and  in 
their  use;  now  and  then,  though  rarely,  rather 
atrained;  occasionally  coarse  or  unseemly;  but 
always  forcible. 

He  deals  occasionally,  but  not  offensively,  in  an- 
tithesis ;  rather  sparingly  in  climax ;  sometimes  in 
personification  and  apostrophe ;  in  interrogatory  he 
is  often  powerful ;  but  his  taste  in  pursuii^  a  simile 
too  far  may  at  times  afford  matter  for  dispute.  His 
favourite  and  most  brilliant  figure  is  metaphor,  and 
in  this  he  is  frequently  amenable  to  the  laws  of  cri- 


488  LIFE  OF  THE 

tlctem  from  Its  being  inrpeifect  or  broken ;  offend!]^ 
in  this  way,  like  all  great  and  original  minds,  againrt 
the  strict  canons  of  art,  yet  overpowering  them  aB 
by  his  genius.  An  instance  of  this  mingled  beauty 
and  imperfection  may  be  taken  at  random.  He  is 
aMuding  to  the  bickerings  with  America,  eardted  hf 
Mr.  George  Grenville,  whose  character  he  is  sketdi* 
ing,  and  whom  he  represents  to  have  understood 
more  of  buisiness  and  of  the  forms  of  o&ce  on  com- 
mon occasions,  than  of  enlarged  and  prudent  jp(Acf 
on  great  emergencies — 

**  These  forms  are  adapted  to  ordinary  occasioiifl, 
and  therefore  persons  who  are  nurtured  in  office  do 
admirably  well  as  long  as  things  go  on  in  their  coib- 
mon  order ;  but  when  the  high  roads  are  broken  np, 
and  the  waters  are  out,  when  a  new  and  troubled 
scene  is  opened^  and  the  file  qffords  no  precedent, 
then  it  is  that  a  greater  knowledge  of  mankind,  and 
a  far  more  extensive  comprehension  of  things,  is  re- 
quisite, than  ever  office  gave,  or  than  office  can  ever 
give."  FUbHc  discontent  and  confusion  overspreaft* 
ing  the  country  like  a  vast  inundation,  effiidng  all 
former  beacons  for  the  guidance  of  its  rules,  and 
leaving  the  judgment  to  its  own  unassisted  efforts,  is 
a  noble  idea;  but  something  of  metaphorical  pro- 
priety and  grandeur  is  lost  by  being  joined  to  the 
literal  reaUtjr  of  the  ''file  ofqffiicer 

An  instance  of  strained  metaphor  has  been  already 
partially  quoted  in  aUusion  to  what  he  thought  the 
over-done  economy  of  Mr.  Pitt,  in  some  regulatioBS 
proposed  in  1785 — <*  He  (Mr.  Pitt)  chooses  to  sup 
pose  (for  he  does  not  pretend  more  than  tO' suppose) 
d  naked  possibility  that  he  shall  draw  some  Tesouroe 


EIGHT  HON.  EBMUyD  BUBKE.  489 

I  out  of  crumlMi  dropped  from  the  trenchers  of  peinuy  i 
^  that  something  shaU  be  laid  in  store  from  the  short 
I  allowance  of  revenue  officers  overloaded  with  duty, 

I  and  famished  for  want  of  bread;  by  a  reduction 

I  from  officers,  who  are  at  this  very  hour  ready  to  bat- 

ter the  Treasury  with  what  breaks  throu^ 
sUme  walls,  for  an  increase  of  their  appointments. 
From  the  marrowless  bones  of  these  skeleton  esta- 
blishments, by  the  we  ^  every  sort  qf  cuttings  and  qf 
every  sort  ^Jretting  UhjI^  he  flatters  himseffthat  he 
may  chip  and  rOsp  an  empirical  alimentary  powder f 
to  diet  into  some  similitude  qf  health  amd  s/uhetam/ee 
the  languishing  chimeras  of  fraudulent  reformation.'' 
The  metaphorical  allusions  in  the  first  sentence  of 
this  passsge  are  unobjectionable  and  forcible,  while 
*  in  the  second  they  pass  into  the  simile,  and  appear 
oonstrfdned  and  unnatural,  though  applicable  to  every 
part  of  the  character  he  had  given  of  the  bill  in  the 
previous  portion  of  his  speech.  This  instance  of  ez*- 
.  travagant  simile,  selected  for  its  objiectionable  nature, 
'  may  however  be  considered  as  scarcely  fair  towards 
his  reputation,  as  it  is  the  most  constrained  in  his 
works. 

Trivial  imperfections  of  this  kind,  amid  numberkss 
specimens  remarkable  for  fitness  and  correctness,  d^ 
tract  little  from  the  merit  of  an  orator ;  abstracted 
from  the  subject  they  may  be  open  to  objection,  but 
taken  along  with  it  few  readers  think  them  worthy 
of  notice,  and  fewer  still  woidd  wish  them  expunged. 
An  imperfect  metaphor  forms  indeed  fine  food  for 
the  indignation  of  the  critic,  who  fastens  upon  die 
unhappy  offender  as  he  would  upon  a  thief  caught 
in  tiie  act  of  purloining  his  prc^rty,  and  commonly 


490  LtFB  OF  THB 

handles  him  with  little  less  mercy.  Bat,  after  all, 
it  may.  be  doubted  whether  mlich  of  this  critieal 
horror  does  not  partake  of  the  character  of  learned 
trifling ;  for  if  we  appeal  to  experience,  to  the  facts 
fUmished  every  day  by  the  intercourse  of  life  and 
business,  we  find  that  though  metaphors  are  in  con- 
tinual use  by  all  ranks  of  people,  few  of  them  when 
examined  are  critically  perfect.  To  be  so,  th^ 
mostly  require  to  be  studied,  and  the  most  beautiful 
require  it  the  most.  In  extemporaneous  oratory, 
such  as  we  usually  hear  in  the  British  Senate,  this 
is  not  to  be  expected.  He  who  would  stop  in  the 
career  of  his  argument  to  labour  a  metaphor  with 
minute  point  and  polish,  might  gain  the  reputation 
of  a  sensitive  critic,  but  he  would  probably  gain  no 
oth^r.  Few  writers,  perhaps,  would  desire  to  see 
their  ideas  submitted  to  the  world  in  their  first 
words,  and  still  greater  allowances  require  to  be 
made  for  thd  orator. 

A  charge  has  been  brought  against  him  from  hi^ 
authority  (Dugald  Stewart,  Esq.),  that,  though  ocmr 
fessedly  one  of  the  greatest  masters  of  the  English 
hmguage,  he  often  debases  his  style  by  the  inter- 
mixture  of  cant  and  colloquial  words  and  allusions. 
The  fact  of  such  intermixture  may  be  true,  but  a 
different  inference  may  be  drawn  from  their  use ;  it 
is  but  fair  at  least,  before  we  wholly  condemn  hk 
practice,  to  consider  his  object. 

Haying  sometimes  to  address  a  popular  assembly, 
intelligent,  and  well  educated  indeed,  but  still  essen- 
tially popular,  and  at  other  times  the  public  at  large 
through  the  medium  of  the  press,  upon  topics  whidi 
intimately  concerned  the  welfare  of  all,  and  with 


BIGHT  HON.  EDMtJN^D  BUBKE.  491 

which  all  ware,  or  fancied  they  were,  acquainted^ 
he  aimed,  as  already  hinted,  at  being  strong  rather 
than   dignified;   bold,  dear,  and  intelligible,    ra» 
tiler  than  refined ;    mastering  their  opinions  by 
his  power  rather  than  by  his  elegance;  omitting 
nothing  which  he  thought  might  inflnenoe  tiiem, 
and  for  this  purpose  calling   in   the   aid  of  the 
most  familiar,  perhaps  homely,  associations.    Like 
Swift,  another  of  our  most  powerful  writers,  he  was 
determined  at  whatever  cost  or  sacrifice,  though  he 
never  like  him  descends  to  gross  abuse  and  coarse- 
ness, to  make  a  deep  and  indelible  impression.      He 
conceived  deeply  and  felt  strongly, , and  would  not 
weaken  the  force  of  his  first  ideas,  by  any  thing  like 
squeamishness  of  expression;   he  was  too  prone 
perhaps  to  the  use  of  the  vulgar  tongue  in  occa- 
sionally ill-chosen  epithets,  though  not  in  sentiment. 
Oratory,  however,  has  a  licence  in  language  which 
is  denied  to  history,  to  criticism,  to  judicial  state- 
ments and  investigations,  or  to  the  philosophical 
treatise ;  in  the  former,  therefore,  if  his  taste,  judged 
by  his  own  practice,  be  often  faulty,  the  error  pro- 
bably arose  from  an  exaggerated  idea  of  his  privi- 
lege, as  under  the  other  heads  just  mentioned,  his 
History,  the  Essay  on  the  Sublime,  and  the  Articles 
of  Charge  against  Mr.  Hastings,  the  style  is  unob- 
jectionable ;  in  the  latter  indeed  it  is  so  precise  and 
ai^ropriate,  that  though  occupying  an  octavo  volume 
and  a  half,  I  do  not  remember  (what  many,  from 
the  common  idea,  entertained  of  Mr.  Burice,  will 
scarcely  believe)  meeting  with  but  one  or  two  meta- 
phorical allusions,  and  nothing  that  can  be  considered 
too  familiar  or  coll€)quial. 


49S  LIFS  OF  TH£ 

Itis likewiae vofgeAf  and  probaUy  with morefixtee^ 
that  he  is  too  liberal  in  the  use  of  terms  borrowed 
firom  art  and  science^  as  these,  though  serving  to  give 
variety  to  imagery,  may  not  be  so  universally  intel- 
ligible to  the  mass  of  readers.  It  is  rare,  howev&r, 
that  they  are  beyond  general  comprehension ;  bathe 
certainly  levies  upon  all  professions  and  occupap- 
tions  without  scruple ;  upon  the  divine,  the  mo* 
ralist,  the  philosopher,  the  physician,  the  astronomer^ 
the  chemist,  the  mathematician,  the  lawyer,  the  sur- 
geon, the  fiormer,  the  soldier,  the  seaman,  and  many 
odiers,  down  even  to  the  baker,  and  butcher,  instanoea 
of  all  of  which  may  be  collected  from  his  works* 
His  nautical  allusions,  which  were  gleaned  probably 
from  Lord  Keppel,  Sir  Charles  Saunders,  and  other 
intimate  naval  friends,  are  not  only  numerous,  but  are 
applied  with  more  propriety  than  a  landsman  can 
usually  aciDomplish ;  as  in  <<  trimming  the  ship,"  in 
<«  heaving  the  lead  every  inch  of  way  I  made,"  a  me- 
taphor strongly  expressive  of  the  care  and  caution 
exerted  upon  the  economical  Reform  bill ;  in  lawyers 
(who  are  said  to  bend  their  eyes  by  instinct  on  the 
peerage)  *^  casting  their  best  bower-anchor  in  the 
House  of  Lords,*"  and  a  great  variety  of  others.  In 
surgery,  the  terms  <*  solution  of  continuity,"  and 
**  working  off  the  slough  of  slavery,"  may  not  be 
so  easily  understood  by  the  unprofessional,  as  <'  the 
broad-cast  swing  of  the  arm"  of  the  farmer,  and  the 
suiqposed  questions  of  the  agrarian  butchers  of  the 
Duke  of  Bedford's  acres — **  how  he  cuts  up  ?** 
^how  he  tallows  in  the  cawl  or  on  the  kidnejrs*" 

Another  resource  for  his  exuberant  genius  was 
the  use  of  scriptural  phraseology,  which  was  applied 


SIGHT  HON.  EDKUNS  BUEKE.  .  498 

to  political  drcumstancee  with  too  nmch  fireed0m» 
though  certainly  without  the  least  idea  of  irrevereiice, 
but  to  those  who  did  not  know  him  or  make  allow- 
ance for  his  sallies,  conveying  sometMag  of  ti^  im- 
pression ;  as  in  calling  Lord  Hillsborough's  Letter  to 
the  Colonies  during  the  disputes,  '<  a  canonical  book 
of  ministerial  scripture^ — ^the  epistle  general  to  the 
Americans ;"  **  it  is  good  for  us  to  be  here ;''  '^  brother 
Lazarus  is  not  dead,  but  sleepeth ;"  and  many  more 
of  a  similar  description.  Ifthelanguage  of  sacred  writ 
be  ever  admissible  in  general  discussions-«-and  the 
propriety  of  the  practice  is  very  doubtful— it  is  per- 
haps least  objectionable  when  used  by  a  great  orator 
on  a  great  occasion,  affecting  the  general  interests 
of  nations,  or  of  large  bodies  of  the  commimity,  and 
when  neither  the. speaker  nor  the  subject  is  likely 
to  degrade  it.  Lord  Chatham  used  it  frequently. 
To  any  one  indeed  who  has  a  proper  relish  for.  a 
high  order  of  literary  beauty,  it  requires  some  self- 
d^ual  not  to  seize  upon  phrases  which  seem  to  stand 
so  opportunely  in  the  way;  for  they  recur  con* 
tinually  to  the  memory,  they  are  in  themselves 
often  sublime,  always  expressive,  and  have  the 
advanti^  of  being  universally  familiar. 

Add  diis  error,  however,  to  his  other  literary  sins 
—to  ^  his  prolific  imagination,  which  (in  the  lan- 
guage of  Mr.  Pitt)  had  so  long  been  the  wonder  and 
pleasure  of  the  House,"  to  his  irregular  or  broken 
figures,  to  his  occasional  dallying  with  his  subject, 
to  the  too  frequent  use  of  terms  of  art,  to  his  frequent 
invective,  to  the  introduction  of  undignified  and 
colloquial  expressions— «nd  to  how  little  do  they  all 
amount  ?     On  the  other  hand,  where  shall  we  find 


494  LIFE  OP  TSE 

among  oratorB  or  statesmen  so  mudi  depth  and 
originality  of  tiuraght^  fulness  of  information,  variety* 
of  diction^  Tigour  of  expression,  bold  and  suUime 
imagery ;  so  much  of  gnmdeur  *  and  energy  of  elo- 
foence,  or  of  beautifiil  and  impressive  writing  ? 

HIS  LEADING  PUBLIC  PRINCIPLES.     . 

As  a  statesman,  Mr.  Burin's  distinguishing  poliey 
is  to  be  traced  in  his  speeches  and  writings.  Theses 
as  forming  a  valuable  manual  for  reference  to  fdtaxe 
leirislators  and  ministers  of  the  country,  will  be  eoor 
suited  for  the  opiniims  which  they  teach,  and  the 
difficulties  they  tend  to  solve,  for  their  vigour  and 
eloquence  as  compositions,  for  clear  and  enlarged 
views  on  great  constitutional  questions,  for  a  tho- 
rough acquaintance  with  the  duties  of  rulers  and 
sttl^ects  in  their  various  relations  of  obedience  and 
GontroL  To  all  his  ideas  on  these  points  universal 
assent  may  not  be  given,  nor  was  tbeir  justice  always 
admitted  at  the  time.  But  experience  has  proved 
they  were  grounded  in  sound  judgment,  and  in  a  pene- 
trating and  prospective  spirit — the  first  qualities 
beyond  all  others  for  those  who  fill  public  statious, 
and  for  the  want  of  which  no  others  can  compensate 
—and  in  a  wisdom  not  abstruse  or  perplexed,  but  in 
its  application  obvious  and  easy. 

It  was  peculiar  to  him — one  of  the  many  distinc- 

*  **Jmiin$,'*  flomewhere  observes  an  ftcute  critic  (Mr.  HasHtt), 
wlio  will  not  be  suspected  of  undue  partiality  to  Mr.  Burke,  "  is 
the  first  of  his  class^  but  that  class  is  not  the  highest.  Junius's 
manner  is  the  strut  of  a  petit-maitre,  Burke's  the  stalk  of  a  giant ; 
if  grandeur  is  not  to  be  found  in  Buike^  it  is  to  be  found 
aowhere" 


RIGHT   HON  EDMTmD  BURKE.  495 


tions  which  belonged  to  his  ehaiacter««*tfaat,  po»* 
sessed  of  a  fancy  and  imaginatdoa  singularly  brilliant^ 
of  vast  stmres  of  knowledge,  of  a  liberal  and  philoso* 
phical  turn  of  mind,  added  to  having  passed  much 
time  among  books— all  the  elements  which  unite  to 
compose  a  beautiful  system-maker  and  imposing 
theorist,  produced  in  him  a  directly  opposite  effect. 
He  would  admit  of  no  innovating  speculations  info 
the  business  of  government  He  was,  if  any  man 
was,  a  practical  man.  He  professed  to  build,  as  the 
wise  of  all  times  have  done,  upon  the  basis  of  his- 
tory and  experience.  ^'  I  prefer  the  collective  wish 
dom  of  f^es,**  said  he,  alludixi^  to  Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr. 
Fox,  **  to  the  abilities  of  any  two  men  living ; "  but 
this  would  have  done  little  for  his  fiame,  without  that 
happy  conforraati<m  of  mind  to  enable  him  to  discri- 
minate the  nature  of  the  deductions  to  be  drawn  from 
It ; — ^between  what  to  apply  to  use,  and  what  was 
inapplicable.  He  entertained  for  ancient  institutions 
that  respect  and  admiration  which  all  sober  minds  feel 
^^en  these  institutions  have  been  productive  of 
good ;  and  as  long  as  the  effects  continued  the  same, 
he  disapproved  of  attempts  to  alter  the  practice. 

His  aim  therefore,  in  our  domestic  policy,  was  to 
jn'eserve  all  our  institutions,  in  the  main,  as  they  are ; 
for  the  simple  reason  that  under  them,  the  nation  had 
become  great,  and  prosperous,  and  happy.  It  was  not 
his  desire  that  we  should  shut  our  eyes  to  abuse — his 
whole  life,  he  said,  had  been  spent  in  resisting  and 
repealing  abuses — ^but  to  amend  deliberately  and 
cautiously;  to  innovate  not  at  all,  for  innovation 
was  not  reformation ;  to  overturn  nothing  which 
had  the  sanction  of  time  and  many  happy  days  in 
its  favour;  to  correct  and  perfect  the  superstruc- 


496  UFS  OF  THE 

tores,  but  to  leave  all  the  foundatioiis,  the  antiquity 
of  whidii  formed  a  guarantee  of  their  usefulness  and 
stability  in  the  general  opinion,  sacred  and  unharmed. 
'^The  love  of  things  andent,"  says  Hooker/'doth  ai^oe 
stayedness ;  but  levity  and  want  of  experience  maketh 
apt  unto  innovations."  Bacon  thought  time  the  great 
innovator ;  Mr.  Burke  seemed  to  think  that  in  the 
nice  connexion  between  the  supreme  governing  au- 
^ority  and  the  people,  he  was  the  chief,  or  the  only 
one,  who  could  act  without  exciting  jealousy  on  the 
one  part  or  on  the  other.  He  did  not  regard  a  form 
of  government  as  necessarily  good,  because  it  was 
plausible  upon  paper,  but  rather  looked  to  its  actual 
workings ;  to  its  effects  rather  than  to  its  nominal 
merits ;  to  benefit  to  the  people  as  it  was  obvious 
to  the  sense,  rather  than  to  perfection  in  the  theories 
on  which  it  was  believed  to  be  founded.  He  believed 
that  no  material  or  abrupt  deviation  in  the  established 
constitution,  or  in  the  mode  of  governing  acommunity, 
could  take  place  without  danger ;  and  the  event  ol 
the  first  great  political  struggle  in  which  he  was 
engaged,  evinced  the  accuracy  of  this  opinion.  His 
constant  admonition  to  England  respecting  America 
was — **  Talk  not  of  your  abstract  rights  of  govern- 
ment I  I  hate  the  very  sound  of  them ;  follow  expe- 
rience and  common  sense ;  desist  from  the  innova- 
tion you  are  now  attempting;  do  as  you  have 
always  done  before,  in  permitting  her  to  tax  her- 
self;  and  in  all  ordinary  circumstances  of  the  world 
the  effects  will  be  the  same — ^namely,  peace,  security, 
and  attachment."  * 

*  An  eminent  American^  talking  not  long  ago  to  an  aoquaiii- 
tanoe  of  Mr.  Burke^  aaid^  **  Had  tlie  advice  of  your  iJ 


RIGHT  HOW.   EDMUND   BURKE.  497 

This  minute  atteation  to  the  uses  and  habits  which' 
unite  governors  and  governed,  and  of  which  the 
▼eneratioQ  he  expressed  for  the  component  parts  of 
our  constitution,  framed  a  natural  part,  although  re^ 
presrated  by  the  party  to  whom  he  stood  opposed  in 
1791  as  the  effects  of  a  narrow  and  fettered  system 
which  he  had  formed  for  himself,  will  by  others  be 
dieemed  the  strongest  proof  of  enlarged  wisdom.  Tlie 
natarel  firame  ci  his  politics  indeed  was  of  the  most 
ie^xpanded  cast.  He  always  contended  for  a  liberal 
and  conciliatory  line  of  conduct  in  national  questions, 
a  disregard  of  small  and  temporary  benefits  for  the 
8ai{:e  of  great  and  permanent  interests ;  seeming  to 
think  that  England  had  lost,  and  might  again  be  a 
loser  by  sdfishness,  but  never  had  sustained  injury  by 
her  kindness  and  gmerosity.  For  this  reason  he  would 
not  run  the  risk  of  losing  the  American  Continent 
for  the  sake  of  a  revenue,  which  even,  if  acquired, 
he  early  perceived  could  be  no  more  than  nominal. 
In  ttie  same  spirit,  he  called  for  coneessicm  to  the 
Iri^  legislature, — to  her  oppressed  and  restricted 
eommeroe— «nd  to  her  vast  body  of  rosDsn  cathoUc 
sul]jects  from  the  disabilities  under  which  they  la* 

fiaend  boen  folloved  at  the  bftgianing  of  our  oontest,  I  do  not 
poiitivelj  say  that  Aioerica  at  this  day  would  hay«  heen  yoMia^ 
though  in  ^Fery  wise  hands,  and  with  concessioos  to  her  trade  and 
advandng  knowledge,  even  this  might  have  heen  possiUie.  But  I 
am  yery  Bare  that  our  sepafstion  would  have  heen  more  easy,  more 
itapcrsqitilile,  nora  good^uaMuied ;  and  possifaly  we  might  have 
been  afterwards  lialced  together  b^  mutual  interests  as  strangHj 
as  by  doiiunion.  Burke  would  have  saved  your  country  much 
bloodshed^  .above  one  hu^dr^  millions  of  money,  and,  mpr^  than 
tiiat,  have  prevented  a  hostOe  feeling  between  die  nations  ^ddk 
^y  now  never  be  oUayed." 

TOL.   U.  2  K 


4i98  I'IFE   OF   THE 

boured ;  for  justice  and  future  security  to  the  peojple 
of  India ;  for  liberty  of  conscience  to  the  dissenters ; 
for  the  relief  of  small  debtors  ;  for  the  suppression 
of  general  warraiats  ;  for  the  abolition  of  negro  sla- 
very, as  a  trade,  and  for  the  better  treatment  of 
those  who  were  in  the  islands  ;  for  the  extension  of 
the  power  of  juries ;  for  the  liberty  of  publishing  tbe 
Parliamentary  debates ;  for  the  re-establishment  of 
Mr.  Wilkes  in  his  seat  for  Middlesex ;  for  the  enacts 
ment  of  Mr.  Grenville's  most  useful  bill,  regulating 
2ontro verted  elections,  which  met  with  much  unac- 
countable opposition,  and  found  in  Mr.  Burke  one 
of  its  ablest  supporters ;  for  the  Nullum  Tempus 

* 

Act,  securing  the  property  of  the  subject  against 
dormant  claims  of  the  crown  ;  for  another  which  he 
endeavoured  to  carry  against  similar  claims  of  the 
church ;  for  retrenching  the  public  expenditure 
without  parsimony  toward  public  servants  and  ser^^ 
vices,  or  infringing  upon  the  dignity  of  the  crown; 
for  a  more  unrestrained  system  of  commercial  inter- 
course ;  for  a  more  generous  policy  towards  France 
and  the  French  princes  in  the  earlier  part  of  the  war 
than  Mr.  Pitt  was  inclined  to  show;  and  in  innu- 
merable other  instances  on  record  ;  all  indicating  love 
to  popular  interests,  and  to  the  most  enlarged  and 
liberal  views.  In  most  of  these  questions  his  under- 
standing may  be  said  to  have  assumed  the  post  of 
honour, — that  is,  it  did  not  follow,  but  rather  led 
the  public  voice.  He  had,  in-  fact,  an  unfeigned  con- 
tempt for  statesmen  without  ^Marge,  liberal,  and 
prospective  views,"  for  what  he  called  "  mechanical 
politicians,''  and  '^pedlar  principles."  *^ Littleness 
in  object  and  in  means,"  said  he,  seeming  to  faint  at 


RIOHT  HON,  EDMUND  BURKE.  499 

some  of  the  Ministiy,  or  their  connexions,  in  1796, 
"to  them. appears  soundness  and  sobriety.  They 
think  thare  is  nothing  worth  pursuit  but  that  which 
they  can  handle :  which  they  can  measiure  with  a 
two^foot  rule;  which  they  can  tell  upon  ten  fi^- 
gers.** 

As  it  has  been  frequently  maintained  that  he  ul- 
timately swerved  from  those  principles  of  freedom 
with  which  he  set  out  in  political  life,  a  re«>perusal 
of  his  earlier  writings,  and  a  fair  induction  from  his 
general  arguments,  will  convince  us  that  at  no  period 
did  he  assume  the  character  of  what  is  called  a  flaming 
patriot,  having  on  the  contrary  early  declared  in 
the  House  of  Conmions  '*  that  being  warned  by  the 
ill  effects  of  a  contrary  procedure  in  great  examples," 
(he  had  the  Earl  of  Bath,  and  some  others  in  his  eye, 
at  the  moment)  *^  he  had  taken  his  ideas  of  liberty 
very  low ;  in  order  that  they  should  stick  to  him^ 
and  that  he  might  stick  to  them,  to  the  end  of  his  life.** 
— ^Averse,  therefore,  from  professions  of  patriotism, 
few  statesmen  paid  more  attention  to  the  substance ; 
and  in  pursuing  what  he  thought  the  true  interests 
of  the  country,  never  very  eagerly  sought,  and  per- 
haps never  much  valued,  popular  applause;  especially 
if  to  obtain  it  required  the  sacrifice  of  a  single  priur 
dple,  or  a  point  of  sound  wisdom.  He  did  not  seem  so 
much  openly  to  despise,  as  tacitly  to  consider  present 
popularity  as  a  species  of  approbation  which  does  not 
always,  nor  even  generally,  extend  its  influence  to  the 
page  of  history,  where  alone  the  deserts  of  a  great 
man  are  justly  balanced,  and  receive  their  due  re.ward. 
In  the  eyes  of  many  he  was,  so  far  as  his  personal  in- 

2  K  2 


lOQ  UFE   OF  THE 

terests  were  concerned,  over-tenadous  in  nev€r  sur- 
rendering his  own  to  the  popidar  opinion. 

The  same  enlightened  patriotism,  superior  to  all 
party  considerations,  whidi  proffered  support  to  go- 
vernment during  the  riots  in  1780,  *^when  (as  he 
says)  wild  and  savage  insurrection  quitted  the  woods 
and  prowled  about  our  streets  in  the  name  of  re- 
fimn,''  brought  him  forward  with  irresistible  power 
in  the  still  more  fearful  crisis  produced  by  the  great 
convulsion  in  a  neighbouring  country.  There  was 
at  all  times  a  gallant  spirit,  a  kind  of  old-faduoned 
generosity  about  the  opinions  and  character,  both 
public  and  private,  of  Burke,  which,  whenever  he 
saw  one  branch  of  the  constitution,  or  any  one  order 
of  the  community,  pressed  down  or  threatened  by 
the  others,  made  him  fling  himself  into  the  lighter 
scale,  to  restore,  if  possible,  the  equipoise.  Sadi 
was  his  conduct  on  this  most  important  of  all  occa- 
sions. He  thought  it  his  duty  to  stand  in  the  Ixeadi, 
evoi  if  alone ;  to  reason,  and  if  necessary,  to  contend 
with  his  former  political  companions  who  seraoied  to 
be  misled  beyond  the  line  of  prudence  by  die  enthu- 
siasm of  the  moment ;  to  appeal  from  hilip  Pdrunk 
to  Philip  sober ;  to  pronounce  aloud  the  warning 
voice,  to  the  people  at  large  should  they  labour  under 
the  same  delusion; — ^to  point  out  the  mischiefr 
irtiich,  not  their  neutrality  merely,  but  (heir  good 
sense  and  decided  hostility  were  required  to  prevent 
The  results  of  these  endeavours,  were  a  violent 
clamour  against  mm  for  assaulting  the  cause  -of  K- 
berty.  What  species  of  liberty  it  was  widdi  he  10 
said  to  have  assaulted,  is  newt  Teatured  to  be  ex* 


RIGHT   HON.   EDMUND   BURKE.  3D1 

plained,  but  it  is  necessary  that  die  reader  sfaooid 
know  it  was  that  of  France  in  1793.  What  the 
liberty  was  which  he  defended  and  approved  is  raore 
obvious,  for  he  has  told  us  pretty  explicitly — that  it 
wtEus  English  liberty — ^it  was  that  system  of  things 
which  secured  to  every  order  in  the  state,  to  thfemo^ 
narchy,  to  the  aristocracy,  and  to  the  people,  and  to 
every  person  within  those  orders,  the  Aill  enjo3nnent 
of  as  many  rights,  as  full  security,  and  as  much  free- 
dom of  action,  as  was  consistent  with  the  same  rights ^ 
the  same  security,  and  the  same  freedom  of  action,  to 
every  other  order  and  individual. 

For  reprobating  the  former,  and  supporting  the 
latter  system,  he  was  accused  of  inconsistency,  as  if 
between  the  practice  of  France  and  the  practice  of 
England  there  prevailed  the  slightest  ai&nity — ^wide 
as  vice  and  virtue,  as  wrong  and  right  asunder.  The 
distinction  which  he  drew  between  them,  and  the  elec* 
tion  which  he  made  of  the  latter,  reqidred  no  efforts  of 
subtlety,  but  were  the  ordinary  results  of  sound  sense 
and  a  dear  understanding.  Attached  to  the  monarchy 
from  principle  and  from  conviction,  and  brought 
forward  in  life  by  the  aristocracy,  he  professed  for 
both  a  warm,  though  not  a  '^  slavish  respect,"  and 
in  the  moment  of  need  did  them  service  which  never 
can  be  repaid,  and  which  ought  never  to  be  forgotten. 
As  one  sprang  from  the  middle  rank  of  the  people, 
he  wished  to  preserve  that  rank  also  as  well  as  the 
others,  respectable,  unawed  by  the  tyranny  (as  in 
France)  of  the  mob.  Sincere  in  the  veneration  of 
religion,  he  contemplated  the  spoliation  of  its  in- 
stitutions first,  and  subsequent  extinction  as  a  priii«- 
ciple  of  belief  in  that  country,  with  horror*     E» 


002  LIFE  OF  THE 

emplaiy  in  the  performance  of  his  social  and  idofbI 
duties,  he  could  not  see  them  involved  in  the  genaral 
ruin  of  every  thing  decent  and  valuable,  without  the 
strongest  indignation*  He  was  arrived  too  at  au 
age  when  the  judgment,  in  matters  of  government, 
is  out  of  the  reach  of  crude  schemes,  and  more  ju- 
venile follies ;  when  the  lust  of  innovation,  if  it  has 
ever  prevailed  in  the  mind,  is  cooled  hy  the  calcul»* 
tions  of  experience.  His  practical  knowledge  of 
States,  and  governments,  and  the  conflicting  interests 
and  passions  of  politicians,  had  been  laboriously 
earned,  his  observation  had  been  keen,  his  powers  to 
combine,  analyze,  and  deduce  important  truths  from 
the  contemplation  of  the  whole,  great  as  it  appeared, 
beyond  example*  Looking  at  such  a  man  in  the 
abstract,  without  previously  knowing  what  part  he 
did  take,  no  doubt  could  be  entertained  of  the  part 
he  toould  take. 

After  all,  the  greatest  and  most  useful  of  his 
many  gifts  was  that  capacity  to  point  out  conse- 
quences, which,  stretching  itself  beyond  even  wis- 
dom,  became  almost  prescience.  In  this  point  he 
stands  alone;  no  other  statesman  has  approached 
him,  or  is  likely  so  to  do,  in  the  exercise  of  the  same 
faculty.  His  predictions,  though  so  numerous  and 
various,  and  which  at  first,  by  their  boldness,  af^ 
forded  matter  for  surprise,  became,  by  their  fulfil«> 
ment  to  the  letter  in  almost  every  instance,  a  sub- 
ject of  general  astonishment;  though  the  Frendi 
Revolution  was  by  no  means  the  first  occasion  on 
which  this  quality  was  developed.  An  attentive  inr 
quirer  will  find  it  marked  in  most  of  the  great 
events  of  his  publiq  life. 


RIGHT    HON.    EDMUND   BUKKE.  503 

He  lived  just  long  enough  to  find  himself  acknow- 
ledged the  prince  of  political  prophets ;  to  see  the 
reprobation  he  had  ventured  to  pass  on  the -most 
remarkable  event  of  modem  times  more  than  justi- 
fied by  the  horrid  scenes  to  which  it  had  given  rise ; 
to  confirm  the  body  of  the  nation  in  the  belief  that 
it  had  acted  wisely,  and  to  convince  many  of  the 
opposite  party  that  their  judgment  had  been  wrong- 
Had  he  even  erred  in  estimating  the  dangers  which 
threatened  our  own  institutions,  it  would  be  difficult 
to  blame  his  caution.  A  government  like  that  of 
England,  commonly  upright  in  design,  in  the  main 
pure  in  practice,  and  under  which  the  people  have 
become  great,  free,  and  prosperous  beyond  all  ex- 
ample, is  entitled  to  our  best  exertions  in  moments 
of  peril,  notwithstanding  the  existence  of  a  few 
trivial  defects  or  errors,  which  after  all,  interfere 
with  no  fundamental  right  of  the  people,  and  which 
it  is  easier  to  point  out  than  to  remedy.  The  fabric 
of  all  constitutions,  and  perhaps  of  our  own  espe- 
cially, is  valuable  only  when  the  materials  which 
compose  it  are  in  close  imion ;  disunited,  they  are 
nearly  valueless.  It  was  the  praise  of  Mr.  Burke 
to  tie  them  more  closely  at  a  moment  when  the 
mistakes  of  some,  and  the  designs  of  others,  threat- 
ened to  sever  them  for  ever ;  and  by  this  one  merit, 
which  is  only  one  item  in  a  long  list  of  public  ser- 
vices, has  left  a  name  as  imperishable  as  the  countcy 
which  he  saved  and  adorned.  > 

Let  it  be  supposed  on  the  other  hand  that  his 
mind  had  been  less  happily  regulated,  that  hiswisdom 
or  patriotism  had^  been  l^s  enlarged,  that  he  had 
fallen  in  with  the  views  of  the  theorists  and  the 


fi04  I:iF£   OF  TH£ 

moHs  in  order  to  render  them  a  stq^ng-etone  to 
place»  or  even  to  the  perpetration  of  criminal 
sdbemes ;  that  deluded  by  a  spirit  of  insane  ambition 
he  had  led  the  van,  supported  by  Paine  and  so  many 
hundreds  of  other  incendiaries  and  dreamers  of  no 
ordinary  rank  and  talents,  to  batter  down  the  vene- 
^rable  institutions  of  the  land  in  expectation  of  rising 
upon  the  rttins» — -there  is  perhaps  little  doubt  but 
he  might  have  accomplished  sudi  designs.  With 
all  his  assistance,  the  struggle  agmnst  such  persona 
and  principles  was  arduous.  But  with  his  energies 
exerted  on  the  contrary  side,  we  should  now  probaUy 
have  no  constitution  to  find  fault  with,and  no  country, 
not  an  independent  one  at  least,  to  claim. 

As  a  minister,  for  the  short  time  he  was  in  office,  he 
was,  as  we  have  seen,  punctual,  laborious,  and  disinte- 
rested in  an  unusiml  degree.  His  rrform  bill  was  the 
most  important  measure  carried  through  Parliament 
during  the  century,  whether  we  consider  the  actual 
saving  of  money,  the  regulation  of  office,  or  the  aboK* 
tion  of  places  which  might  have  been  rendered  souroea 
of  undue  influence,  or  at  any  rate  of  suspicion,  in  the 
votes  of  thirty-six  members  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons— a  number  almost  sufficient  of  themselves  to 
form  a  House.  That  he  would  have  displayed  a 
different  spirit  if  placed  in  a  more  leading  department 
of  government,  there  is  no  reason  to  believe;  hia 
integrity  of  purpose  was  never  questioned.  It  is 
possible  he  might  not  have  been  popular.  He 
showed  too  much  zeal  in  urging  favourite  measures ; 
and  zeal  in  the  eyes  of  the  million  is  suspicious.  He 
did  not  at  all  times  consult  expediency.  He  exhi* 
bited  occasionally  too  much  candour  in  disclosing 


RIGHT   HON.  EBMVKD  BUBKE.  Mff. 

the  wihole  of  his  views  in  pofalie  prapmitkaaB  if  tttiK 
mifotf  while  other  penoius  in  power,  with  less  of  eon* 
itige  or  more  of  management,  thought  it  mote  {nmdent 
to  let  them  slide  into  the  world,  like  iU-news,  pieee*. 
meal.  And  having  never  adopted  a  measure  of  great 
consequence,  except  after  intense  consideration  and 
the  clearest  conviction  of  its  being  rights  he  could 
not  perhaps  have  yielded  with  a  very  good  gtaite  to 
public  opinion,  had  it  set  in  ever  so  stroii^y  in  the 
contrary  way. 

MR.   BURKE,   MR.   PITT,   MR.   FOX. 

It  may  be  an  object  of  inquiry  among  those  who 
look  minutely  to  developement  of  toind,  to  estimate 
the  relative  capacity  and  powers  which  these  three 
great  statesmen  and  orators  displayed  during  their 
career,  and  the  rank  which  they  are  likely  to  hold 
upon  the  roll  of  history.  No  formal  parallel,  however, 
will  be  attempted  to  be  drawn  here;  each  has  bis  par- 
tizans,  and  each  certainly  possesses  peculiar  merits  of 
his  own.  But  as  it  is  not  the  pre-eminence  of  one  or 
two  faculties,  but  the  general  results  of  various  excel- 
lence, that  forms  the  criterion  by  which  great  men  are 
usually  judged  and  compared  by  posterity,  so  as  in  this 
view  Cicero  has  been  awarded  the  superiority  among 
the  Romans,  and  perhaps  may  also  excel  the  first  of  the 
Greeks,  Mr.  Burke  is  pretty  certain  to  take  the  same 
^tand  among  the  modems.  At  present  indeed,  poli- 
tical feelings  and  partialities  may  tempt  many  to 
^eetion  this ;  for  he  is  yet  too  near  our  own  time. 
His  great  competitors  have  besides  left  their  names 
as  watch-words  and  rallying  points  to  two  great 
parties  in  the  state,  who,  influenced  by  a  sense  of 


506  LIFE  OP  THE 

party  honour  and  oonsequenoe,  daun  the  same  dis- 
tinction each  for  its  particular  leader.  But  party 
feelings,  at  least  towards  individuals,  seldom  outlive 
the  generation  they  influence.  A  century,  or  less, 
completely  dissolves  the  spell.  Men  begin  then  to 
look  around  them  for  some  better  evidences  of  desert 
than  the  possession  of  temporary  power  or  popularity 
furnish.*  Fame  indeed  is  a  capricious  offering; 
Milton  had  little  or  no  reputation  as  a  poet  while 
he  lived,  and  for  years  afterwards;  Dryden  did 
not  possess  more  of  it  than  some  other  writers,  his 
contemporaries,  whose  names  are  now  sunk  in  utter 
obscurity;  several  men  have  almost  governed  our 
House  of  Commons  during  their  day,  whose  claim  to 
such  distinction  no  one  now  acknowledges;  Mira- 
beau  ruled  the  National  Assembly  of  France,  yet 
what  historian  will  venture  to  class  him  among  the 
good,  or  the  truly  great  ?  Even  Demosthenes  and 
Cicero  during  their  lives  only  divided  public  applause 
with  rivals  in  reputation  whom  none  would  now 
think  of  placing  in  comparison ;  and  such  it  is  almost 
certain  will  be  the  fate  of  Burke. 

No  man  has  excelled,  or  possibly  equalled  Mr. 
Pitt  in  the  management  of  the  Cabinet,  in  a  tact  for 
business,  in  finance,  in  that  uncommon  dexterity 
which  adapting  itself,  though  without  subserviency, 
at  once  to  the  wishes  of  the  sovereign,  and  to  the 
fluctuating  feelings  of  the  public,  never,  during  so 

*  '^  £iren  now,"  says  a  writer  who  does  not  overiload  Iubi  wit|i 
praise,  ''  wbile  the  ashes  of  Fox  and  Pitt  are  yet  warm,  and  tbeir 
eloquenoe  may  be  said  yet  to  sound  in  our  ears,  how  much  more 
are  the  speeches  of  Burke  read^  how  much  more  of  them  is  gene^ 
rally  remembei^. 


RIGHT  HON.  EDMUND  BVRKE.  507 

long  a  period  of  time,  lost  the  confidence  of  either. 
His  powers  were  only  exceeded  by  his  prudence. 

In  no  point  of  ability  could  Mr.  Fox  be  deemed 
inferior^  and  in  bursts  of  overpowering  eloquence 
was  considered  often  to  have  the  advantage.  But 
more  particularly  as  a  popular  idol,  as  one  bom  to 
lead  a  formidable  party  in  Parliament,  and  to  extract 
out  of  casual  political  coadjutors  devoted  and  en- 
thusiastic personal  friends,  he  stood  alone,  and  far 
above  all  other  men.  Mr.  Burke  never  did,  and  Mr. 
Pitt,  had  it  been  his  lot  to  labour  during  his  life  in 
the  ungracious  work  of  Opposition,  never  could  have 
approached  to  an  equality  with  him  in  this  respect. 
His  only  wants,  perhaps,  were  that  caution  and  mo- 
deration in  which  Mr.  Pitt  excelled. 

Mr.  Burke,  on  the  other  hand,  in  addition  to  dis- 
playing an  equality  with  them  in  their  most  distin- 
guished political  characteristics,  possessed  other  and 
various  powers  to  which  they  had  little  pretension ; 
and  considering  that  he  had  to  fight  his  way  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  from  comparative  obscurity, 
through  vexatious  jealousies  and  difficulties  which 
never  thwarted  the  career  of  his  great  competitors,  and 
buoyed  up  solely  by  his  talents,  he  may  be  said  to  have 
accomplished  much  more  than  they  did  for  fame. 
A  few,  and  but  a  few,  of  his  principles  of  policy  have 
been  noticed  in  this  work ;  the  detail  belongs  to  the 
history  of  the  country,  and  would  require  a  larger  vo- 
lume than  the  present  to  itself.  Theyembraced,during 
a  period  of  thirty  years,  the  whole  of  our  foreign,  colo- 
nial, and  domestic  relations,  under  every  variety  of 
form  and  situation ;  his  views  extremely  clear,  more 
enlarged  sometimes  than  those  of  Mr.  Pitt, — ^more 


S09  LIFE  OF  TBk 

pf^edse  and  aecorate  thra  those  of  Mr.  Fox ; 
though  it  ia  not  meant  to  daim  for  him  infallihilitjr^ 
Ho  statesman  who  took  so  decided  a  part  on  such  a 
muldpUdty  of  subjects  has  committed  so  few  mi»^ 
italDes.  It  would  be  a  haeardous  matter  to  point  out 
any  gift  or  capad^,  as  a  statesman,  in  which  Mr» 
JBurke  was  defident ;  in  Ibr^i^t,  the  first  and  most 
important  of  all,  he  confessedly  flEU*  excdled  his.  great 
contempormes,  and  all  his  predecessors. 
.  The  same  superiority  belongs  to  him  in  most  of 
the  natural  and  acquired  powers  necessary  to  coa- 
stitute  a  great  orator ;  and  this  is  not  merely  the 
verdict  of  the  critic  in  his  study,  but  he  actually  ex-- 
hibited  a  power  over  his  audience,  sometimes  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  and  more  than  once  in  West^ 
minster  Hall,  to  which  they  never  attained.  ^  For 
remarkable  passages,"  observes  the  able  historian  of 
the  impeachment,  <^  separable  from  their  novelty,  or 
|)»eir  striking  original  importance  in  idea  or  dictioii^ 
Mr.  Burke  is  the  mighty  master.  Those  of  Mr.  Fox 
,were  not  so  distinguished." — In  the  speeches  of  Mr. 
Pitt  and  Mr.  Fox  there  is,  beyond  all  question*  a 
great  deal  of  common  place, — much  of  which  nery 
4ordinary  men  would  say  on  similar  occasions ;  but  it 
jbs  difficult  to  read  a  page  or  two  of  Burke,  and  not 
f^el  a  conviction  that  his  speeches  belong  to  another 
and  to  a  higher  order  of  intellect  The  oratory  (^  his 
i^mpetitors  was  often  inferior  to  his  in  the  extent  of 
information  it  conveyed,  and  almost  always  in  new 
imd  fordble  illustration.  It  was  inferior  likewke  in 
not  impressing  the  mind  with  the  same  feeling  of  the 
enlarged  wisdom  of  the  speaker;  also  in  wit  and  ridi- 
cule; in  pathos;  in  imi^pery ;  in  force  of  invective,  an 


RIOHT  HDir.  BDMITKD  BURKE.  Mflf. 

wefiil,  but  sometimes  daageroufl  power;  tmd'iKiora' 
tiAQ  «U,  it  was  infatior  ia  that  kindling  of  genius 
called  by  the  critics  the  eloquence  of  pesaioii,  and' 
which  they  deem  essentiallyneoessaiy  to  great  success. 
In  ordinary  business  his  powers  were  perhaps  less  ooo^ 
spicuous  than  in  aflGairs  of  importance ;  his  speeches 
on  the  latter  occasions  imparted  something  like  tha 
idea  of  an  ocean  of  mind,  at  once  deep  and  boiiadh^»i 
He  did  not  latterly  engngein,  or  like,  tlia  obbhiois 
routine  of  opposition,  but,  as  has  been  isaid'  oB 
Shakspeare,  he  was  always  j^reat^v^ien  ai  great  oik 
casioB  called  for  it.  '       ^ 

If  in  so  many  requisites,  which  go  to  the  forma- 
tion of  a  (fistinguished  political  character,  we  find 
Mr.  Burke  on  a  levd,  or  above  his  great  rivals  iet 
publie  life,  there  are  others  of  no  slight  mom^ait  iii 
which  comparison  tells  to  dieir  disadvantage.  * 

As  a  writer,  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  advert  Co 
his  vast  superiority.  Mr.  Pitt,  indeed,  did  not  se- 
riously contend'  for  the  honours  of  the  i»^8.  Mr.- 
Fox  composed  dowly  and  witii  labour,  veiy  uftlflccf 
his  mode  of  speaking,  sometimes  complaining  of  tihio 
difficulty  of  the  process  as  almost  vexatious.  •  Mr. 
Burke  was  rapid  in  composition,  though  patient  in  i^ 
much  greater  degree  than  is  common  witli  men  of 
genius,  in  careful  revision,  and,  independeiy;  of  m^ara 
literary  execution,  there  are  more  traces  of  Vigour  4tf 
thought^  and*  ingenuity  and  or^inality  of  mind  Uk- 
any  one  of  his  pamphlets,  than  in  Mr.  Fox's  hie^ 
lory.  In  the  extent  of  his  general  knowi^ge  h^ 
exctfllsd  them  both.  As  a  man  of  general  gen^ 
(Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  certainly  had  him  in  his  ey# 
in  the  definition  of  that  quality),,  who  seemed  eqiiK 


510  LIFE  OF  THE 

ble  of  ampassing  in  any  panuit  to  wfaidi  he  chose 
to  devote  his  attention,  he  excelled  them.  As  a  phi- 
losophical critic,  the  Essay  on  the  Sublime  and 
Beautifbl  places  him  £ar  above  them ;  and  in  that 
general  truth  of  deduction  from  experience  and  from 
i^pearances,  whether  in  the  moral,  natural,  or  poli- 
tical world,  which  constitutes  the  philosopher,  his 
superiority  is  equally  incontestible«  In  powers  of 
conversation  he  far  excelled  them.  In  a  fine  and 
correct  taste  for  the  arts  he  excelled  them.  In  clas- 
sical learning  he  was  at  least  on  a  par  with  them  ; 
and  in  classical  criticism,  though  Mr.  Fox  was  an 
excellent  critic,  he  had  perhaps  the  advantage  in 
depth  and  ingenuity.  Even  in  epistolary  communi- 
cation, which  forms  the  business  of  some  men,  and 
the  occasional  occupation  of  all,  the  same  marked 
superiority  over  his  great  rivals,  whether  in  the 
familiar  letter  or  tbe  more  formal  exposition  of  pub- 
lic business,  is  as  obvious  as  in  any  other  of  his 
talents.  Of  his  pre-eminence  over  Mr.  Fox,  with 
whom  he  has  been  more  particularly  compared  in 
the  various  excellence  constituting  a  very  great  man. 
Dr.  Johnson,  with  characteristic  precision,  stated 
his  conviction  in  a  single  sentence ;  '^  Sir,**  said  he, 
alluding  to  some  political  opinions  of  Sir  Joshua 
Reynolds,  ^^  he  is  too  much  under  the  influence  of 
the  Fox  (dog)  ^tor,  and  the  Irish  constellaiUmr 
Among  politicians  he  will  be  considered  to  be  what 
Michael  Angelo  is  among  artists. 

Viewed  in  whatever  light,  he  must  always  be  con- 
sidered a  most  extraordinary  man — extraordinary  in 
his  talents,  in  his  acquirements,  in  his  rise,  in  his 
progress,  and  in  his  end ;  for  the  last  efforts  of  his 


UIOHT  HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  511 

mind  rise  in  power  and  in  brilliancy  dver  almost 
any  of  the  preceding.  He  lived  in  a  momentous 
time,  aind  seemed  made  for  such  an  occasion  by  the 
delight  he  felt  in*  strong  excitements,  and  the  splen* 
dour  of  the  exertions  to  which  they  gave  rise.  He 
may  be  considered  in  politics  what  the  great  re- 
formers were  in  religion — ^possessed  of  zeal,  powers; 
and  perseverance,  altogether  boundless,  to  influence 
at  favourable  moments,  the  minds  of  men  from  their 
customary  channek  of  thought  to  such  as  he  deemed 
more  consistent  wi4^  truth  and  public  advantage. 
He  was  peculiarly  fitted  for  being  the  great  pre- 
siding  genius  of  a  country,  and  his  great  contem- 
poraries should  have  been  his  ministers.  He  should 
have  originated  measures,  and  they  should  have 
carried  them  into  execution.  Public  servants,  as  able 
as  they  were,  and  (if  that  be  any  criterion  of  merit) 
infinitely  more  successful,  have  been  often  seen  in 
the  world,  but  it  has  required  two  thousand  years 
to  produce  one  Cicero  and  one  Burke.  Great  as  his 
fame  is,  it  is  not  probably  near  its  height ;  calculated 
as  he  is,  in  the  various  characters  of  statesman, 
orator,  and  writer,  to  descend  to  a  late  period  of 
time ;  to  gain  in  reputation  as  he  recedes  firom  the 
fleeting  animosities  and  prejudices  of  the  day ;  and 
perhaps  to  excite  regret  and  surprise  that  we  should 
have  had  among  us  the  great  master-spirit  in  poli- 
tical prophesying  and  teaching,  and  notoftener  have 
profited  by  his  admonitions. 

"  If  we  are  to  praise  a  man  in  proportion  to  his 
usefuhiess,"  says  a  distinguished  German  writer, 
whose  volumes  are  admired  throughout  Europe,  **  I 
am  persuaded  that  no  task  can  be  more  difficult  than 


$1%  LfF£  OF  THK 

thirt  of  Mug  justice  to  aaothar  EDglisliiiuui,  Mb 
(fiir  W.  Jon68's>  oontemporaiy,  the  Statesman  ami 
Orator  Borke.  This  man  has  been  to  his  oiwk 
cfomatry  and  to  all  £urope~-in  a  verjr  partrailar 
manner  to  Oermanf -*-«a  new  light  of  political  wisdom 
and  iBoral  experience.  He  corrected  his  age  wben 
it  was  at  the  height  of  its  revoluticmar^  phrenqr ; 
alii^^wtttioiit  naiotaining  any  system  ai  phalosD^y 
Ins  seems  to  have  seen  farmer  into  the  tame  natuM 
cKf  VMfety,  and  to  hare  more  clearly  comprdieadad 
tii0  eflbct  of  religion  in  connecting  individual  seen* 
tity.  wttii  national  welfare,  than  any  philosc^ihery  or 
Mty  system  of  philosophy,  of  any  preceding  age."  * 

^  This  I  deliberatdy  and  steadily  afBrm/'  writes 
a  learned  mati  more  than  once  quoted,  after  an 
aatmated  eulogy  on  him  as  a  critic  and  philosopher, 
*^  thttt  of  all  the  men  who  are,  or  who  ever  hava 
been,  4ttnlnent  for  energy  or  t^lendour  of  eloquence, 
or  for  dcill  and  grace  in  composition,  there  is  not 
one  who,  in  genius  or  erudition,  in  philanthr(4>y  or 
piety,  or  in  any  of  the  qualities  of  a  wise  and  good 
man,  surpasses  Burke/' 

^  If,"  said  Mr.  Fox,  in  opening  the  first  chaige 
of  the  impeachment,  and  the  allusion  to  Mr.  Burke 
was  rapidly  caught  by  the  auditory,  '^  If  we  are  no 
iMger  in  shamdful  ignorance  of  India ;  if  India  no 
ibngef  makes  us  blnsh  in  the  eyes  of  Eun^ ;  let 
itt  know  and  feel  our  OBLIGATIONS  to  HJM~ 
whose  admirable  resources  of  <^nion  and  aSettUm 
^— -whose  uniiring  toil,  sublime  genins,  and  higfa- 
49pir!ng  honour,  raised  him  up  cons^cuous  among 
ihh  nM^t  ben^eent  worthies  of  manldad !  ** 


RIGHT   HON.  EDMUND  BURKE.  51S 

^*  To  whom,**  said  Sheridan  in  his  happier  mo- 
ments, before  the  false  lights  of  French  liberty  mis- 
led him,  '^  I  look  up  with  homage,  whose  genius  is 
commensurate  to  his  philanthropy,  whose  memory 
will  stretch  itself  beyond  the  fleeting  objects  of  any 
little,  partial,  temporary  shuffling,  through  the  whole 
range  of  human  knowledge  and  honourable  aspira- 
tions after  human  good,  as  large  as  the  systen^ 
which  forms  life,  as  lasting  as  those  objects  which 
adorn  it ;" — ^*  a  gentleman  whose  abilities,  happfly 
for  the  glory  of  the  age  in  which  we  live,  are  not 
entrusted  to  the  perishable  eloquence  of  the  day, 
but  will  live  to  be  the  admiration  of  that  hour  when 
all  of  us  shall  be  mute,  and  most  of  us  forgotten." 


VOL.  11.  2  L 


ADDENDA. 


Vol.  If  page  10 — line  31  from  top. 

Spenser  thus  alludes  to  Sir  Walter  Raleigh's  visits  to 
him  when  resident  at  Kilcolman  Castle — 

^  There  a  strange  shepherd  chanc'd  to  find  me  out. 
Whether  allured  hj  my  pipers  delight, 
Whoee  pleasing  sound  yskilled  far  about. 
Or  thither  led  by  chvice^  I  know  not  right; 
Whom  when  I  asked  from  what  place  he  came. 
And  how  he  bight,  himself  he  did  ydeep^ 
<The  shepherd  of  the  ocean  by  name/ 
And  said  he  came  far  from  the  main  sea  deep.*' 


VoL  I,  page  62 — begin  the  page. 

It  was  about  this  time  that  Mr,  Burke  accidentally  formed 
an  acquaintance  in  St.  James's  Park,  with  a  very  enter- 
prising  and  original  character^  who,  though  a  native  of  the 
East,  nearly  friendless  in  England,  and  who,  consequently, 
appeared  in*  rather  a  ''  questionable  shape/'  presented 
evidences  of  a  mind  so  much  above  his  situation,  that  he 
instantly,  to  the  best  of  his  power,  befriended  him.  This 
man,  with  a  little  more  of  the  favour  of  fortune,  might 
have  turned  out  one  of  the  most  conspicuous,  as  he  was 
one  of  the  most  adventurous,  spirits  of  modem  times.  Sir 
W.  Jones  thus  writes  of  him,  (May,  1786)  to  Sir  John 
Macpherson,  when  Governor  General  of  India : 

''  I  have  already  thanked  you  for  your  attentions  to 
Emin,  and  I  beg  to  repeat  them ;  many  in  England  will  be 

2  l2 


516  ADDENDA. 

equally  thankful.  He  is  a  fine  fellow ;  and  if  actire  aenrioe 
should  be  required,  he  would  seek  nothing  so  much  as  to 
be  placed  in  the  most  perilous  edge  of  the  battle." — ^Lord 
Teignmouth,  in  his  Aiemoirs  of  Sir  W.  Jones,  gives  an 
abstract  of  his  career : 

''  Few  persons  have  passed  through  a  greater  variety  of 
hardships  and  perilous  adventures  than  the  person  mea- 
tioned  by  Sir  W.  Jones,  under  the  name  of  Emin.  Bom 
at  Hamadan,  in  Persia,  of  Armenian  parents,  and  exposed 
during  his  infancy  to  uncommon  disasters,  while  a  mere 
youth  he  followed  his  father  and  ruined  family  to  Calcutta. 
He  had  there  an  opportunity  of  observing  the  superiority  of 
Europeans  in  arms,  arts,  and  sciences,  over  the  Asiatics ; 
and  the  impression  which  he  received  from  it  inspired  an 
invincible  desire  in  Emin  to  acquire  the  knowledge  which 
they  possessed.  For  this  purpose  he  determined  at  all 
hazards  to  visit  England ;  and  after  a  long  opposition  from 
his  father,  having  obtained  his  reluctant  assent,  he  adopted 
the  only  means  left  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  purpose, 
by  working  his  passage  as  a  common  sailor  in  one  of  the 
ships  belonging  to  the  East  India  Company.  After  his 
arrival  in  England,  he  lost  no  tiine  in  beginning  to  acquire 
the  instruction  which  he  so  anxiously  desired,  but  his 
progress  was  retarded  by  the  narrowness  of  his  circum- 
stances, and  he  was  compelled  to  submit  to  menial  oocu- 
pations  and  laborious  employments,  to  procure  a  subsist- 
ence.  Fortune  favoured  his  peiBeverance,  and  in  a 
moment  of  despair  he  was  accidentally  intioduced  to  the 
notice  of  the  Duke  of  Northumberland,  and  afterwards  to 
that  of  many  gentlemen  of  rank  and  fortune,  by  whose 
assistance  his  views  were  promoted. 

<'  The  great  object  of  Emin  was  to  obtain  a  knowledge 
of  military  tactics,  in  the  hopes  of  ^ploying  it  sue* 
cessfully  in  rescuing  the  liberty  and  religion  of  the  country 
of  his  ancestors  from  the  despotism  of  the  Turks  and  Perf- 
sians.  After  serving  with  the  Prussian  and  English  amues 
in  Germany,  he  procured  the  means  of  transporting  him- 
self into  the  mountains  of  Armenia,  in  the  view  of  offering 


ADDENDA*  517 

his  services  to  Hetaclms,  the  reigning  Prince  of  Georgia, 
and  of  rousing  the  religious  zeal  and  martial  spirit  of  his 
countrymen.  He  had  there  the  mortification  to  find  his 
resources  inadequate  to  the  magnitude  of  the  enterprize, 
and  he  was  compelled  to  return  disappointed  to  England. 
After  some  time  spent  in  solicitation,  he  was  enabled^  by 
the  assistance  of  his  patrons,  to  proceed  with  recommen- 
dations to  Russia,  and  thence,  after  various  fatigues  and 
impediments,  which  his  fortitude  and  perseverance  sur- 
mounted, he  reached  Teflis,  the  capital  of  Georgia.  After 
eight  years  of  wanderings,  perils,  and  distresses,  through 
the  mountains  of  that  country  and  Armenia,  he  was  ob- 
liged to  abandon  his  visionary  project,  and  returned  to  his 
father  in  Calcutta.  Still  anxious  for  the  accomplishment 
of  his  plans,  and  no  ways  intimidated  by  past  dangers  and 
difficulties,  he  made  a  third  attempt  for  the  execution  of 
them,  and  proceeded  to  Persia.  This  proved  equally  un- 
successful, and  he  again  returned  to  Calcutta. 

''  In  Emin  we  see  the  -same  man  who  was  a  sailor,  a 
porter,  a  menial  servant,  and  subsisting  by  charity — the 
companion  of  nobles,  and  patronized  by  princes  and 
monarchs ;  ever  preserving,  in  his  deepest  distresses,  a 
sense  of  honour,  a  spirit  of  integrity,  a  reliance  upon  Pro- 
vidence, and  a  firm  adherence  to  the  principles  of 
Christianity,  in  which  he  had  been  educated.  During  his 
residence  in  Calcutta  he  published  an  account  of  his 
eventful  life,  which  Sir  William  Jones  condescended  to 
revise,  so  far  only  as  to  correct  orthographical  errors,  but 
without  any  amendment  of  the  style." 

Previous  to  his  introduction  to  the  Duke  of  Northum- 
berland, Emin  had  become  acquainted  with  Edmund 
Burke,  whom,  as  already  stated,  he  accidentally  met  in  the 
Park.  After  some  conversation,  Mr.  Bmke  invited  Emin 
to  his  apartments  at  the  sign  of  Pope's  Head,  a  bodk- 
seller's,  near  the  Temple.  Emin,  ignorant  of  the  name  of 
the  gentleman  who  had  treated  him  with  so  much  courtesy, 
begged  to  be  favoured  with  it ;  and  Mr.  Burke  politely 
answered,  '^  Sir,  my  name  is  Edmund  Burke,  at  your  ser- 


518  ADDENDA. 

vice ;  I  am  a  runaway  son  from  a  father,  as  yon  are/' 
He  then  presented  half-a-guinea  to  Emin,  saying,  ''UpoQ 
my  honour,  this  is  what  I  have  at  present — please  to 
accept  of  it/' 

Mr.  Bdrke  next  day  visited  Emin,  and  assisted  him  with 
his  advice  as  to  the  books  which  he  should  read.  He  in* 
troduced  him  to  his  relation  Mr.  William  Burke ;  and  for 
thirty  years  Emin  acknowledges  that  he  was  treated  with 
unceasing  kindness  by  both. 

At  the  period  of  the  commencement  of  his  acquaintance 
with  Mr.  Burke,  Emin  had  little  l^ft  for  his  maintenancey 
and  the  prospect  of  accomplishing  the  purpose  of  his 
voyage  to  England  became  daily  more  gloomy.  "  Had 
not  Mr.  Burke  consoled  him  now  and  then/'  to  nse  die 
words  of  Emin,  he  might  have  been  lost  for  ever  through 
despair ;  but  his  friend  always  advised  him  to  put  his 
trust  in  God,  and  he  never  missed  a  day  without  seeing 
Emin.  He  was  writing  books  at  the  time,  and  desired  the 
author  (i.  e.  Emin)  to  copy  them :  the  first  was  an  imitse 
tion  of  the  late  Lord  Bolingbroke's  Letter ;  the  second, 
the  ''Treatise  of  Sublime  and  Beautiful."— The  whole  of 
this  story  is  characteristic  in  a  high  degree  of  the  bo- 
manity  and  generosity  which  always  distinguished  this 
great  and  virtuous  ornament  of  our  nation. 

To  an  application  from  Emin  many  years  subsequent  to 
this  period,  to  procure  for  him  some  situation  of  profit  in 
India,  Mr.  Burke  wrote  the  following  reply  :— 

"to  YUSEPB  emin,  CALCUTTA 

''my  dear  old  friend  emin, 

'<  You  reproach  me  but  too  justly  for  not  having  r^u- 
larly  answered  your  letters,  but  I  assure  you  that  neither 
my  wife  nor  1  have  forgot  you ;  nor  has  my  son  been  left 
unacquainted  with  our  regard  and  good  wishes  to  you ;  so 
that  he  begs  leave  to  be  ranked  among  your  old  friends, 
thougl^  you  could  only  know  him  in  his  infiincy. 

**  I  have  never  had  much  interest  in  India.    Lord  Clive 


addenda:  510 

OBoe  thought  himself  obliged  to  me  for  having  done  what 
I  thought  an  act  of  justice  towards' him.  The  only '  use  J 
made  of  his  inclination  towards  me^  was  to  get  him  to  re- 
commend you  to  some  military  proQiotion.  This  was  in 
the  year  1772.  I  am  convinced  he  did  write,  but  I  believe 
he  was  far  from  well  with  the  people  then  in  power.  Since 
that  time  none  of  those  who  governed  India,  either  abroad 
or  at  home,  have  been  my  particular  friends.  Some,  per- 
haps, have  been  ill-disposed  towards  me.  My  parlia- 
mentary occupation  with  regard  to  India  was  naturally  not 
very  pleasing  to  those,  the  faults  of  whose  government  it 
fell  to  my  lot  to  reprehend.  My  friends  have  suiFered ;  I 
have  not  gained.  I  shall,  however,  be  well  paid  for  a 
great  deal  of  trouble  if  I  can  make  the  burden  of  the 
English  government  over  the  people  of  India  a  little- more 
tolerable  than  it  has  been. 

'*  As  to  you,  my  friend,  you  have  been  tossed  in  many 
storms,  and  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  It  is  fit  that  your 
declining  years  should  have  some  rest.  I  am  glad  you 
have  sought  it  in  the  comforts  of  a  good  conscience,  and 
the  domestic  satisfactions  of  a  good  father  of  a  family ; — 
every  thing  else  is  but  show  without  substance. 

''  There  are  many  changes  here  of  all  kinds  since  you 
left  us.  The  Duke  of  Northumberland,  your  friend,  is 
dead.  Mrs.  Montague  is  still  alive,  and  when  I  see  her 
I  shall  put  her  in  mind  of  you.  Many  changes,  too,  of  a 
much  more  striking  nature  have  happened  since  you  and 
I  first  became  acquainted.  Who  could  have  thought  the 
day  I  first  saw  you  in  St.  James's  Park,  that  this  kingdom 
would  rule  the  greater  part  of  India  ?  But  kingdoms  rise 
and  pass  away — ^Emperors  are  captive  and  blinded — ^Ped- 
lars  become  Emperors.  We  are  alive,  however,  and  have, 
I  hope,  sense  enough  to  derive  lessons  of  private  consola- 
tion from  great  events.  They  do  not  always  teach  the 
great,  for  whom  they  seem  to  be  made ;  somebody  ought 
to  profit  of  them.  You  have  attempted  great  tilings  on 
noble  principles.  You  have  failed,  and  you  are  better  off 
for  yourself  than  if  you  had  succeeded ;  for  you  are  an 


530  A0(D«K  l»A.« 

konesl^  and  if  jou  plaue^  a  iufqpy  prfivnle  dPttn.  B^ne 
me,  if  ocamm  ofievs,  I  -Aatt  hqI  forget  jkmi.  Ify  ma 
aad  McB.  Bodce  desire  their  Jkindeet  xevembiBnoe ;  ani 
pray  believe  me  to^be,  with  gseat  e^kmn  wd  eiflfeolieKy«f 
wcffilAiy  old  friend, 

<'  Your  moat-finlhfitl  and 

^'Obedient  humble  8erv«ot, 

♦'March 29, 1789.  ^^ Edmund  Burkb." 


mm 


Vol.  I,  page  169 — ^^^  2SJrom  top. 

ItBetme  that  part  of  the  piopecty  which  he  tnlmtad  is 
beland  l»d  been  htigaied  by  some  of  hie  relatioiiB  with 
hiselder  brother.  To  this  there  ie  aUvaMNa  m  the^oUow^ 
ing  letter,  and  the  sentiments  oontained  in  it  funkik 
fardier  prOtof  of  the  ekoeUstioe  of  his  heaul — 

*'  MT  DSAB  SIR, 

''The  present  unhappiT  staAf  of  public  afl^Mya  has  r^m 
qnire^  my  daily  and  abnpslb  hou%  atte^dw^  in  tbo 
House  of  Commq^s*  I  ha^,  therefojce,  not  had  a  siiig^ 
i9,oment'8  time  to  ^nswor  your  letter  of  the  15th  iQloFem- 
ber  &ojfi  the  counly  of  K^n^,  .an4  wl^u^  eofc^sed  ova 
^om  Mr.  J(dm  Henessy  tp  you,  mitil  thia  day..  I  «pa 
equally  surprised  and  t^ocked  at  tb^  jpicture  tli^  genvUe* 
fian  has  drawn  of  what  j(ie  .9iyi|poaes  the  adepts  of  my. 
Q.9nduct.  He  indeed  p]^ljg^ly  attii;ibutes  it  to  m^  igop* 
i^oe  of  tib^  tn^  state  of  the  rights  aM^sufferinipof  tbt, 
claimants*  But  if  th^  ignorance  Jt^ad  arisen  iroofi  aiqr 
neglects  imputable  to  mt^  the  favU  would  have  ba^a 
nearly  the  sav^is  as  if  I  had  bejep  unjust  and  inhuman  with 
the  clearest  kno^edge  of  the  case. 

'^  I  am  sorry  that  I  am  obliged  to  remind  yon  of  thf  f^ 
cumstances  of  a  ma;tter«  of  which  you  must  yourself  be  At 
least  as  well-informed  as  I  am.  I  will  now,  in  a  few 
words,  lay  them  before  you* 

^^In  the  year  1765,  my  brother  died ;  and  aowmg  other 


tUtfigi  beqiwitliftci  fta  mB  biB  iotefeil  in  Clohir,  wluch  m 
At  Attb^ct  of  yoiin  wd  Mr.  HeoeMy't  letter*  I  uidev* 
Btood,  ihttt  dming  my  biotber'ft  life^imey  wbjiat  the  tranav 
•dioB  wae  seoenly  and  all  the  parlies  ami  witaeaaes  liviiig, 
the  affair  was  litigated ;  that  the  litigation  had  proved  iuh 
attcceaefiil ;  and  Umi  a  decree  of  a  court  of  equity  had 
ealabtiabed  him  in  peaceable  posseaaion. 

^<  I  Buppoee  that  nobody  will  think  me  nnjoat  inaup^ 
piQBing  that  I  had  a  Air  title  to  what  waa  ao  left,  and  so 
confirmed.  In  this  light  things  appeared  to  me^  and  I 
believe  frets  so  atood,  when,  about  a  year  after  the  death 
of  my  brother,  I  was  for  two  or  three  weeha  in  your 
QauDtey.9  Aat  is,.afaou(t  deven  yean  i^,  in  Ae  aiitnBm 
ofthe  year  1766. 

^  U  only  cemaina  for  me  to  accttunt  for  what  has  ha^ 
penad  ainGe.^  Hot  having  been  aUe  to  visit  Iieland  in  itk 
that  long  spaoe  of  time,  nor,  conse^ently^  to  look  after 
the  rights  of  others,  or  even  of  myself ;  I  did  what  J  thoogha 
moat  eflfeotual  towards  remedying  the  ill  consequenoaa  oC 
my  Ignorance  with  regard  to  the  one  or  tosthe  other.  I 
placed  that  afiair,  iogediMr  with  all  the  vest  of  my  littla 
conceins  in  Ireland,  of  whatsoever  nature,  in  the  hands  of 
my  friend,  die  laie  Counsellor  Ridge,  implioitly  reaignkig 
myself  to  his  dureolion,  .and  referring  whiofly  to  him  eMiiy 
application  thai  should  be  ^made  to  me  in  velaition  to  any 
biah  business.  His  great  integrity,  and  his  sound  know**' 
ledge  in  his  peofesaionf  gave  me  all  die  reason  in  ^e 
world  to  be  pemuaded,  that  he  never  woiild  advise  me  to 
the  assertion  cf  any  nght  which  I  could  notsupport  in  hmi 
and  which  in  honour  md  eoMmence  waa  not  justifidyle. 
From  tha^  iyam  to  this  I  have  metwiihno  ifistahance.  I 
am  pemuaded^  nf  bettor  mediod  could  be  found  out  to 
pcevent  any  iU  effsota  which  might  hflqppen  fixmiimy  long 
absence,  and  consequent  ignorance  of  my  affairs.  I  most 
certainly  never  desired,  or  remotely  wished  him,  to  con- 
trovert for  a  moment  the  just  rights  of  any  man  living.  1 
think  I  should  not  have  done  so  for  interests  of  the  great- 
est magnitude  in  the  worid,  much  less  for  one,  which 


593  ADDEITDA. 

thov^h  in-  my  cirGumBt«nceft  not  to  be. neglected  by^ane^ 
is  as  nothing  in  comparison  of  those  which  I  slight  evieiy 
>day  of  my  life,  in  favour  of  what  I  think  fair  and  honest. 
Indeed,  it  is  little  worthy  of  any  injustice  either  to  obtain 
or  hold. 

'^  So  far  as  to  my  just  presumption  in  fiivour  ^f  my  legal 
right.  But  I  must  say,  that  I  should  think  it  a  very  poor 
account  of  my  conduct,  if  satisfied  with  having  such  a 
right,  I  had  reason  to  think  there  had  been  any  original 
wrong  in  the  obtaining  it,  though  not  by  my  act  or  con- 
sent. But  your  father,  a  man,  I  believe,  of  as  perfect  in^ 
tegrity  as  ever  lived,  is  my  authority  for  the  fairness  of 
the  original  tran9action.  I  apprehend  it  is  misstated  in  the 
case  which  you  have  transmitted  to  me.  For  he  expressly 
told  me,  that  it  was  carried  on,  not  only  with  the  clearest 
light  into  its  true  nature,  but  at  the  earnest  entreaty 
of  the  parties;  my  brother,. who.  was  in  his. disposition 
timid,  and.  cautious,  having  for  a  long  time  declined  to 
meddle  with  it.  The  narrative  says,  that  on  some  doubtful 
intentions  of  my  deceased  brother,  and  on  having  received 
an  unsatisfactory  answer,  Mr.  Robert  Nagle  immediately 
went  to  Dublin,  and  equipped  himself  with  a  new  religion, 
in  order  to  entitle  himself  as  a  protestant  discoverer,  to 
bring  his  bill  for  vesting  in  him  this  whole  interest.* 
Whether  he  would  not  have  acted  more  honestly,  and,  in 
the  event,  more  prudently,  in  endeavouring  by  some  means 
to  enforce  the  agreement  he  had  made,  if  the  performance, 
as  he  says,  had  been  evaded,  is  more  than  I,  can  say,  un- 
acquainted as  I. am  with  the  intricacies  of  those  unhappy 
lawsf  on  which  this  business  turns.  Most  certainly, 
tfiose  who  have  adhered  to  that  agreement  have  no  reason 
to  complain  of  their  condition.  But  by  thus  endeavouring 
to  set  aside  his  own  act,  and  to  get  the  whol^  interest  into 

*  Ooe  of  the  barbarous  enactmeots  of  the  penal  laws  against  tbe 
Eoman  Catholics  of  Ireland,  by  which  one  member  of  a  family  of  that 
persnasioni  by  becoming  a  protestant,  could  deprive  his  elder  brothers  of 
their  property  and  birthright. 
:  t  The  pfsoai  laws  alluded  to  above. 


ADDENDA.  &i3 

hiB  own  hands^  to  which,  if  his  original  title  had  be^n 
valid  in  law,  he  would  only  have  been  entitled  tor  a  part, 
he  did  all  that  he  could  do  for  the  ruin  of  hia  family. 
His  distress,  whatever  it  may  be,  is  of  his  own  making. 
I  could  not  admit,  his  claim,  made  as  he  made  it,  without 
affecting  my  brotlier's  memory,  and  without  bringing  to 
beggary  the  mother  of  this  unhappy-man^  his  brother,  and 
a  very  large  family  of  children,  hiff  and  your  nearest  rela- 
tions. Your  father,  I  think  yourself — I  am  sure.  Garret 
Nagle,  all  told  me  that  this  would.be  the  infallible  event 
of  his  success  in  his  suit. 

**  As  to   his  mother,    whose  situation    Mr.  Henessy 
paints  in  such  strong  colours,  I  thought  I  had,  in  some 
measure,  relieved,  instead  of  causing  it.    I  saw  her  when 
I  was  in  Ireland.    I  then  gave  something,  I  forget  what, 
for  her  relief,  and.  directed  in  general  terms  that,  she 
should  have  such  helps  to  put  her  at  her  ease  as  she  asked. 
If  she  had  asked  for  more  than  she  has  done,  she  should 
have  assuredly  had  it ;  for,  I  trust,  I  am  not  altogether 
grudging,  or  penurious,,  on  such  occasions.     This  I  know, 
that  she  seemed  perfectly  satisfied ;  whereas,  I  understood 
from  herself,  that  she  had  considered  her  son's  success, 
and  her  being  turned  out  of  her  own  little  tenement,  as  one 
and  the  same  thing.  As  to  Garret  Nc^le,  heknows  whether 
I  have  been  a  sharp  or  oppressive  landlord  to  him,  either 
as  to  the  term  of  his  lease,  or  to.  any  other  particular* 
There  are  some  others  who  hold  leases  under  my  title,  on. 
what  I  conceive  to  be  very  moderate  terms.   If  you,  or  aay 
judicious  person,  had  told  me  they  were  otherwise,!  should 
instantly  have  thought  it  my  duty  to  make  an  abatement* 
These  people  are  all  dependent,  perhaps,  >  for  their  exist- 
ence, on  my  right.    The  question,  therefore,  in  point  of 
humanity  (to  which  Mr.  H.  appeals)  was,  whether  I  ought 
to  suffer  Mr.  R.  Nagle  to  continue  in  a  distress,  brought 
on  by  his  own  act,  or  by  admitting  his  new  claims,  re- 
jected by  a  court  of  law,  to  subvert  and  ruin  several 
innocent  families,  who  are,  or  ought  to  be,  in  a  thriving 
condition  under  .me.      I  did, >  in  general,  know.  .that,  he 


526  ADDBKDA. 

last;  and  it  is  paying  off  its  arrears  of  heat,  with  compoand 
interest ;  indeed,  I  long  sincerely  to  see  you ;  and  if  I  were 
not  held  by  yaiious  ties,  and  engaged  in  various  occiqpa* 
tions  (though  neither  very  pleasant  nor  important) ;  and  if  I 
were  as  rich,  as,  I  thank  Ood,  I  amstiUiiealthy  and  actire, 
I  should  this  summer  pay  you  a  visit  in  your  wood-house, 
that  is  to  say,  if  you  would  deign  to  receive  so  humble  a 
person,  after  all  your  great  and  titled  guests.  If  I  see 
Lord  Kenmare,  I  shall  certainly  thank  him  for  his  civilities 
to  you.  I  certainly  am  as  much  pleased  with  them,  as  if 
they  were  offered  to  myself,  and,  indeed,  a  Uttle  more. 
My  acquaintance  with  Lord  Winchelsea  is  very  slight ; 
but  I  have  known  Lord  Pembroke,  pretty  intimately,  for 
some  time.  We  may  meet  this  summer,  and  we  shall  talk 
you  over.    I  wish  you  had  named  me  to  him. 

^*  What  you  say  of  Loi-d  Shelbume  is  more  important. 
I  very  well  remember  your  application  to  me-some  time 
ago ;  I  remember  too,  that  I  mentioned  it  to  Colonel  Baire. 
Nothing  further  came  of  it ;  I  believe  that  agency  was  not 
vacant  when  you  wrote.    Between  ourselves,  and  I  would 
not  have  it  go  farther,  there  are,  I  believe,  few  who  can 
do  less  with  Lord  Shelbume  than  myself.    He  had  for* 
merlyj  at  several  times,  professed  much  friendship  to  me; 
but  whenever  I  came  to  try  the  ground,  let  the  matter  have 
been  never  so  trifling,  I  always  found  it  to  foil  under  me. 
It  is,  indeed,  long  since  he  has  made  even  professions. 
With  many  eminent  qualities,  he  has  sqme  singularities 
in  his  character.    He  is  suspicious  and  whimsical ;  and, 
perhaps,  if  I  stood  better  with  him  than  I  do,  perhaps  my 
recommendation  would  not  have  the  greatest  weight  in  the 
world.    This,  I  mention,  as  between  ourselves.    In  the 
mean  time,  if  an  opportunity  occurs,  I  shall  do  the  best  I 
can  for  you.    I  hope  I  am  not  inattentive  to  my  friends  to 
the  best  of  my  power ;  and  let  me  assure  you  that  I 
have  ever  looked  upon  you  as  a  friend,  whose  ease  and 
welfare  I  have  at  heart  as  much  as  the  interest  of  any 
person  whatsoever.** 


ADDENDA.  627 


Vol.  II,  page  182— &ie  17. 


<*  RECOLLECTIONS    OF    THE     RIGHT     HON*    EDMUND 

BURKE. 

*'  It  has  been  already  noticed  that  the  letter  of  Mr; 
Burke  to  Mr.  Smith/  in  which  the  publications  of  Thomas 
Paine  are  animadverted  upon,  with  such  strength  and  jus- 
tice, was  received  at  Spa.  It  was  written  while  the ''  Ap- 
peal from  the  New  to  the  Old  Whigs"  was  at  press.  On  the 
return  of  Mr.  Smith,  then  a  very  young  man,  from  the 
continent,  a  few  months  afterward,  he  made  his  first  visit 
to  Butler's  Court,  and  was,  for  the  first  time,  introduced 
to  the  personal  acquaintance  of  its  distinguished  owner. 

**  There  was  company  in  the  house  at  the  time,  and 
when  he  arrived  from  town  they  had  already  sat  down  to 
dinner*  He  entered  the  dining-room,  in  some  measure 
unobserved,  but  found  a  seat  at  the  foot  of  the'  table 
beside  Mr.  Richard  Burke  the  younger,  whose  premature 
death}  in  no'  very  long  time  after,  plunged  his  father  into 
siich  deep  affliction ;  and  between  whom  and  Mr.  Smith 
nearer  advances  to  intimacy  were  made  during  the  evening 
than  the  short  period  of  their  acquaintance  might  give 
room  to  expect.  This  would  seem  to  disprove  an  assertion 
sometimes  made  by  persons  who  saw  him  but  little,  or 
whom  he  might  not  possibly  like,  that  his  habits  to  a' 
stranger  were  so  reserved  as  to  present  an  obstacle  to' 
intimacy. 

^'  The  guests  present  were  rather  numerous.  Among 
them  were  M.  Cazales,  a  distinguished  member  of  the 
first  National  Assembly  of  France,  and,  unless  the  writer's 
memory  deceives  him,  a  Vicomte,  previous  to  the  abolition 
of  titles ;  and  M.  Dillon,  reputed  a  favourite  of  the  un-» 
fortunate  Marie  Antoinette  of  France,  and    commonly 

•  Now  the  Hon.  Sir  William  Cusack  Smith,  Bart.   FRS.  Second 
Biron  of  the  Court  of  Exchequer  in  Ireland. 


528  ADDBNDA. 

known  by  the  appellation  ^  Le  Beau  Dillon/  These,  at 
least  the  former  more  particularly^  appeared  to  speaks  or 
even  to  understand  En^h  very  imperfectly.  Mr.  BudLe, 
consequently,  addressed  much  of  his  conversation  to  them 
in  French ;  he  did  not  seem  to  pronounce  it  or  speak  it  well, 
but  was  perfectly  able  to  express  himself- intelligibly,  and 
with  reasonable  flueatrf ;  and  tiiis  waa  maaifdstiy  all  that 
he  aimed  at*  He  appeared  not  merely  abo^e  the  vanitff 
of  attempting  to  make  a  display  of  profieieney ;  but  alM 
above  the  mote  exeusable  feeling  of  relnetSAoe  to  betny 
his  want  of  it*  The  revolutioiiary  events  whieh  were  then 
arowding  upon  the  seene>  seemed  veiy  mfuch*  to  engraaa 
him,  and  Batuiadly  formed  a  eonaideialxle  portion  of  his 
conversation. 

*'  During  dinner,,  a  servant  whispeied  to  him  Ike  amvat 
ef  Mr.  Smith,  on«  which  he  n>se  from  the  head  of  the  table 
where  he  had  been  sitting,  walked  down  to  the  latter, 
shook  hands  with  and  welcomed  him,'andthen netumed  to 
hie  seat.  In  the  manner  in  ii4iich  this  Wai  done,  tbete  a^ 
peaced'  to  the  writer  of  these-  recollections,  a  mixtniB  of 
something  resembling  formality,  (or  should  it  be  oaiiad 
vieUh'Couit  stateliness  ?)  with  hospitable  feeiiDg  and  fiank 
good  nature,  ofwhioh  he  woidd  not  find  it  easy  to  conwy 
a  just  idea  to  the  reader. 

'^When  the  kdies  appewed.  about  lo  qnit  the  room, 
Mr.  BuiLGr  shopped  them,  and  went  out  faimaalf.  Qo^hm 
vetur%  ix^  a  minute  or  two,  diey  retf red.  He  lind  in^  Ike 
meantime,  it  i^peared,  been  examining  the  dugmu  4f 
heat  of  their  drawing-rDom,  where  thermometers  wen 
pkttsd  for  the  purpose  of  aseerttdniag  the  tempemfdre 
with  precisionk  Mrst.Buike  was  tfaevia a deliuiute  slate 
of  health,  labouring,,  as  the  writer  apprahewki,  under  a 
eomplaint  of  die  rheumatic  kind ;  and  this  wua  the  cause 
of  the  afhctionate  and  attentive,  precmition  obsomd  by 
herhusband« 

'^  Richard  Burke,  the  brother  of  Edmund,  and  Re- 
eofder  of  Bristol,  formed  one  of  the  oompany,  and  ap- 
peared to  be  a  person  of  pleasanttfy,  humour,  and  ready 


ADDBNDA.  6^ 

wit.  The  younger  Richard^  who,  however,  was  not  in 
▼ery  good  healthy  seemed^  if  not  diffident  or  reserved,  at 
least  disinclined  to  take  part  in.  the  general  conyersation, 
and  rather  disposed  to  confine  his  communications  to  those 
more  immediately  about  him,  and  to  deliver  his  sentiments 
in  an  under  tone  of  voice.  The  share  of  his  conversation 
which  he  gave  to  Mr.  Smith  was  considerable ;  and  in  its 
purport  as  well  as  quality,  extremely  gratifying  to  the  latter. 
His  health  appeared  delicate ;  a  cold,  to  all  appearance, 
had  taken  fiusA  hold  of  him,  and  fixed  upon  his  chest 
Both  his  father  and  mother  betrayed  anxiety  on  this  sub- 
ject, and  might  be  said  to  have  spoken  at  him,  with 
reference  to  his  declared  intention  of  going  next  day  to 
London.  The  weather,  his  cough,  the  little  inconvenience 
which  would  arise  from  postponing  for  a  few  days  his  in- 
terview, with  Mr.  Pitt,  were  in  turn  adverted  to.  He  ap- 
peared to  the  writer  to  cut  these  parental  anxieties  and 
recommendations  too  short,  by  the  at  once  careless  and 
peremptory  way  in  which  he  said  '  I  shall  go,  however ;' 
and  in  some  time  after,  he  suggested  to  one  of  the  ladies 
Ae  necessity  of  her  having  her  commissions  for  town 
ready  that  night,  as  he  purposed  to  start  early  in  the 
monimg. 

**  In  the  course  of  the  evening,  after  the  gentlemen  had 
adjourned  to  the  drawing-room,  M.  Cazales  made,  in  his 
attempts  to  express  himself  in  English,  more  and  greater 
blunders  than  the  writer  could  have  expected.  Some  of 
these  mistakes  he  conceives  himself  to  recollect;  but  as 
they  would  be  more  vrais  than  vraisemblables,  he  thinks  it 
as  well  not  to  record  them.  He  seemed  to  have  a  desire 
to  amuse  and  to  excite  laughter,  and  he  succeeded.*    Mr. 

*  M.  CazaleS)  who  was  a  good-homoored  mao,  with  all  the  indinatioa 
to  please  and  to  be  pleased,  which  is  often  characteristic  of  his  oonntiyy 
had  picked  up  the  air,  and  some  of  the  words  of  the  strange  and  not  very 
intelligible  or  elegant  old  song  called  '<  Feat  tqnm  a  trencher  f  The 
words  seemed  to  tickle  his  imagination,  but  not  knowing  them  periectlj, 
he  asked  Mr.  Smith  to  give  them  to  him  accurately.  This  that  gen- 
tleman was  unable  to  do,  but,  to  the  credit  of  his  promptitude  and  inge- 

VOL.  II.  2m 


680  AIIDBNDA. 

Burke  contrihuted  an  occasional  anile  to  the  genend 
merriment^  and  nothing  more  ^  and  even  this  vras  acconb- 
panied  by  a  curl  of  the  lip,  that  appeared  to  doubt  whether 
there  were  much  good  taste,  whatever  there  might  be  of 
good  humour,  shewn  in  the  proceeding. 

^*  Mn  Smith  remained  for  a  few  days  at  the  house  of 
this  eminent  man,  and  repeated  his  visit  more  than  once 
afterwards.  So  great  a  portion  of  time,  however,  has 
since  elapsed,  that  he  has  doubtless  foi^otten  much  which 
deserved  to  be  remembered,  and  all  of  which  he  would 
desire  to  remember,  could  those  bright,  but  flitting 
thoughts  and  sentiments,  which  make  up  the  charm  of 
conversation  with  a  great  genius,  be  always  held  fast  by 
the  memory,  or  transfixed  at  once  to  paper.  Some  of  the 
particular  occasions  also,  on  which  a  pari  of  what  he  stiU 
retains  may  have  occurred,  are,  in  part,  forgotten. 

**  During  one  of  these  visits,  a  morning  was  devoted  by 
Mr.  Burke  to  walking  round  the  grounds  and  vicinity 
with  his  visitor,  discoursing  with  him  upon  agricultural 
subjects,  evincing  not  only  much  apparent  interest  in,  bat, 
as  is  well  known  to  his  friends,  displaying  much  practical 
knowledge  of  such  matters.  He  talked  likewise  of  lie- 
land,  and  seemed  to  think  of  it,  and  to  recal  the  series  of 
his  early  life  with  some  tenderness  of  feeling.  He  pointed 
out  the  mansion  which  had  belonged  to  the  family  of 
Penn ;  and  either  shewed  a  house  traditionally  represented 
as  having  been  inhabited  by  the  poet  Waller,  or  pointed 
at  the  church  as  containing  his  remains.* 

nnity,  wrote  the  fbllowing  basty  paraphrase,  or  Tersion,  with  a  peodl  on 
the  badL  of  a  letter,  both  tupplied  by  hit  amusing  Frendi  friend :  they 

answer  the  air  very  well — 

^  Gar^on  i^iportez  moi,  moi, 
Des  pois,  de  pedts  pois,  pois; 
Sticr^  Monsieur  ?---C'est  mienz,  je  crcis; 
£t  I'assiette  de  bois,  hois.''     Editor. 

•  Waller's  house  still  eiists  in  the  neighbourhood. 


ADOBNDA.  631 

''On  the  profesaioD  of  tbe  law,  which  Mr.  Snuthi  con- 
templated, Mr.  Burke  made  a  variety  of  observations. 
So  tut,  he  said,  as  his  experience  led  to  the  forming  of  an 
opinion,  he  considered  it  as  not  calculated  to  develope  the 
general,  or  higher  powers  of  the  mind, — an  idea  which  he 
has  likewise  thrown  out  in  the  speech  on  American  tax- 
ation^ when  sketching  tbe  character  of  Mr.  George  Gren- 
ville.  He  sought  to  illustrate  this  view  of  the  matter  by 
some  instances  which  it  might  be  invidious,  and  does  not 
seem  necessary,  to  record. 

''  At  the  same  time  he  did  not  seem  wholly  wedded  to 
his  theory  'y — said  that  very  possibly  it  was  an  erroneous 
one ;  that  even  were  it  correct,  there  were  several  splendid 
exceptions  to  the  rule,  and  that  even  in  cases  to  which  the 
rule  applied,  the  pursuits  and  studies  of  the  bar  might 
sharpen  the  understanding  on  many  points,  and  did,  in 
hjct,  render  its  professors,  as  far  as  they  permitted  their 
faculties  to  expand,  acute  and  penetrating.  It  assisted 
likewise  to  give  some  degree  of  logical  precision  to  the 
mode  of  thinking ;  but  the  general  eflfect  after  all  was  to 
reduce  the  mind  from  a  wholesale  to  a  retail  dealer,  in 
subordinate  and  petty  topicks  of  information.  He  added, 
that  he  understood  the  members  of  the  Irish  bar  to  be  in- 
ferior in  legal  learning  to  their  English  brethren,  but  in 
other  respects  to  possess  some  advantages.  It  is  appre- 
hended that  a  material  change  in  this  respect  has  since 
taken  place ;  that  the  Irish  bar  may  now  compete  with 
that  of  England  in  legal  information ;  and  that  on  die 
other  hand,  the  former  can  no  longer  lay  claim  to  sup^ 
riority  over  the  latter,  on  other  grounds. 

''  It  appeared  to  Mr.  Smith,  that  there  was  nothing  arro- 
gant, peremptory,  or  dogmatical  in  the  way  in  which  Mr. 
Burke  put  forward  hin  opinions,  though  such  charges 
have  been  sometimes  adduced  against  his  mode  of  argu*. 
mentation.  Mr.  Smith  submitted  a  short  tract  to  his 
perusal.  Mr.  Burke  objected  to  the  theory  which  a  para- 
graph in  it  implied.  The  former  immediately  proposed, 
in  deference  to  such  authority,  to  draw  his  pen  across  it, 

2m2 


632  ADDENDA. 

but  was  stopped  by  Mr.  Burke,  who  said,  'Do  not  strike 
it  out  until  I  turn  the  matter  more  in  my  mind.'  Next 
day  he  made  a  few  changes  and  interlineations  in  the 
manuscript,  and  said,  that  thus  qualified,  the  theories  of 
the  paragraph  might  stand.  These  scenes  occurred  in  the 
study  at  Butler's  Court 

''  Imperfect  as  these  recollections  may  be  deemed,  and 
thrown  together  as  they  are,  with  more  haste  than  the 
writer  could  havedesired,  though  prevented  by  momentary 
circumstances  from  devoting  more  time  to  their  detail  and 
arrangement,  they  may  not  be  wholly  without  interest  to 
those  who  delight  in  contemplating  the  great  character  to 
whom  they  relate.'' 


Lamented  sage  I  whose  prescieDt  scan. 


Pierced  through  foul  auarchy's  gigantic  plan. 

Prompt  to  incred'lous  hearers  to  disclose 

The  guilt  of  France,  and  Europe's  world  of  woes— 

Thou  on  whose  name  each  distant  age  shall  gaze. 

The  mighty  sea-mark  of  these  troubled  days ; 

Ohl  laige  of  soul,  of  genius  unconfin'd, 

Bom  to  delight,  instruct,  improTO  mankiod." 


Vol  II,  page  207. 


^    / 


Since  this  work  was  printed  off,  a  pamphlet  has  been 
published  by  Mr.  R.  Therry,  which  contains  some  letters 
written  by  Mr.  Burke  to  his  son,  who  had  proceeded 
again  to  Ireland,  on  the  business  of  the  Roman  Catholics 
early  in  September,  1792.  They  relate,  of  course,  chiefly 
to  their  aflairs,  and  evince  his  characteristic  wisdom  in  the 
advice  he  offers,  as  to  the  means  to  be  adopted  for  ac- 
complishing their  views.  These  admonitions  differ  in  no 
respect  from  those  still  urged  by  the  wisest,  firmest,  and 
most  moderate  friends  of  that  body,  though  its  leaders 
did  not  then,  no  more  than  they  do  now,  follow  the 
friendly  recommendations  thus  given — ^A  few  passages 
from  them,  as  possessing  much  interest  at  the  present 
moment,  may  be  quoted: — 


ADDENDA.  533 

' ''  {d  those  letters*  I  gave  you  my  ideas  in  general ;  par- 
ticularly I  pressed  what  I  now  press  again ;  that  those  to 
whose  cause  we  wish  well  in  Ireland,  would  leave  off  the 
topic,  of  which  some  of  them  are  so  fond,  that  of  attri- 
buting the  continuance  of  their  grievances  to  English  in- 
terests or  dispositions,  to  which  they  suppose  the  welfare 
of  Ireland  is  sacrificed.     I  do  not  know  whether  they 
believe  me  or  not ;  or  whether  they  may  not  think,  that 
I  too  speak  from  that  sort  of  policy :  but,  believe  what 
they  will,  there  is  not  one  story  which  the  Protestant  as- 
cendency tells  of  them  that  is  more  perfectly  groundless 
than  that  notion.    What  interest  has  any  individual  here, 
or  what  interest  has  the  whole  kingdom  collectively,  that 
the  Catholics  of  Ireland  should  have  no  share  in  the  elec- 
tion of  members  of  Parliament  ?  f  Since  the  independency, 
and  even  before,  the  jobs  of  that  government  are  almost 
wholly  in  their  own  hands ;  the  whole  that  England,  or 
that  Englishmen,  get  from  it  is  a  very  trifle,  not  worth  the 
consideration  of  any  the  smallest  body  of  men ;  and  if 
they  think  that  the  court  party,  or  the  ministerial  party, 
or  any  party  whatsoever  on  this  side  of  the  water,  wish  to 
keep  down  the  Catholics,  in  order  to  keep  the  whole  mass 
of  Ireland  feeble,  they  do  an  injury  to  the  quietness  of 
their  character ;  at  the  same  time  infinitely  too  great  an 
honour  to  the  profundity  of  their  politics.    I  have  never 
known  any  of  the  successive  governments,  in  my  time,  in- 
fluenced by  any  passion  relative  to  Ireland,  than  the  wish 
that  they  should  hear  of  it  and  its  concerns  as  little  as 
possible :  for  this  reason,  the  present  set  of  ministers, 
who  partake  of  that  disposition  in  a  lai^er  measure  than 
any  of  their  predecessors  with  whom  I  have  been  ac- 
quainted, have  left  the  whole  to  the  persons  to  whom  they 
have  abandoned  Ireland,  and  they  again  to that  junta 

*  Two,  which  had  been  preFiously  forwarded  to  his  son. 
t  This  right,  as  has  been  abready  stated,  was  conceded  to  Roman 
Catholics  in  1793,  chiefly  through  the  exertions  of  Mr.  Burke. 


534  ADDENDA. 

of  jobbers,  who  endeavour  to  secure  to  themselyes  lucratire 
repose  against  the  faction  who  may  oppose  them  llieie^  or 

the  rivals  who  may  want  to  succeed  them  from  hence 

our  friends  are  greatly,  radically,  and  to  themselves  meet 
dangerously  mistaken,  if  they  do  not  know  that  the  wh<de 
of  what  they  suffer  is  'from  cabals  purely  Irish/'— -(S^. 
20, 1792.) 

*^  As  to  your  clients,  in  my  opinion,  as  long  as  they  keep 
themselves  firm  to  the  solid  ground  of  the  British  consti- 
tution ;  they  are  safe  for  the  present,  and  must  be  sucoess- 
fril ;  but  if  they  have  any  mistaken  theorists  to  carry  them 
into  any  thing  like  the  principles  adopted  in  France,  they 
will  not  only  be  baffled,  but  baffled  with  shame/' — {Oct. 
1,  1792.) 

'M  am  glad  to  find  I  coincided  in  opinion  with  you. 
To  petition  the  king  is  a  right,  and  that  word  for  word, 
as  you  conceive  it ;  as  to  petition  parliament  in 
its  present  temper,  would  be  foolish ;  this  might  be  de- 
clared in  some  firm,  modest,  and  temperate  tone,  more  in 
the  style  of  lamentation.  What  you  say  of  the  friendly 
Protestants  is  of  more  importance  than  all  the  rest,  both, 
in  my  opinion,  for  the  credit  of  their  body,  as  for  the  ad- 
vantage of  your  clients.  I  long  much  to  talk  to  you  on 
this  subject.  But  it  is  more  important  that  you  should 
be  where  you  are,  so  'tis  possible  that  the  bar  could  begot 
to  declare  any  thing  useful  in  any  tolerable  numbers. 
Your  adversaries  are  very  busy  every  where,  and  have 
filled  the  mind  of  the  people  with  the  idea  of  a  rebellion 
of  the  Roman  Catholics  ready  to  break  out."— (Oc^. 
17,  1792.) 

''  As  to  you,  my  dear  Richard,  be  assured  that  in  private 
conversations,  in  an  affair  of  this  difficulty  and  extent, 
you  can  do  nothing.  Reserve  and  coolness,  and  unwiDing- 
ness  to  begin  or  continue  discourses  on  the  subject,  and 


A&DENBA.  535 

not  too  great .  a  quickness  to  hear,  give  the  enemy  a 
better  opinion  of  yotir  discretion,  and  make  them  respect 
you  more.  Besides,  by  leaving  them  to  themselves,  they 
will  be  less  heated  with  controversy,  and  disposed  to  think 
more  dispassionately  on  the  subject. 

^*  Your  mind  you  will  open  to  your  confidential  friends 
in  the  Committee ;  there  it  is  necessary ;  and  that  restraint, 
which  is  prudence  with  enemies,  is  treachery  with  friends. 
What  degree  of  temperate  and  steady  firmness  you  may 
find  cmiongst  them  I  know  not.  But  every  thing  will 
depend  on  that  combination,  that  is  the  combination  of 
perseverance  with  coolness,  and  great  choice  in  measures. 
You  cannot  too  often  inculcate  to  your  chief  friends,  that 
this  affair  is  of  such  a  nature,  that  it  cannot  possibly  be 
the  work  of  a  single  day,  or  of  a  single  act.  The  web  has 
been  too  long  weaving  to  be  unravelled  in  an  instant.  No 
evils,  but  much  good  would  happen  were  it  so  unravelled; 
but  that  is  hardly  to  be  expected  without  some  event 
which  we  cannot  produce,  and  would  not  produce  if  we 
could,  such  as  the  American  war,  and  its  issue,  which 
brought  on  ideas  of  Irish  independence,  and  these  again 
the  necessity  of  conciliating  the  Catholics.  This  hastened 
their  relief  to  the  point  in  which  it  stands  by  many  years. 
The  petition  to  the  king  I  hold  an  essential  preliminary 
for  any  further  application  to  parliament  (whether  to  be 
sure  you  must  come  at  last)  until  the  mind  of  government 
and  the  public  in  both  kingdoms  is  better  prepared  than 
it  now  is."— (Dcc€/»fcr  10, 1792.) 

'^  I  am  sure  I  do  not  pretend  to  know  Ireland  as  well  as 
they ;  but  I  think  I  know  England  as  well  as  most  people, 
or  I  have  lived  long  to  little  purpose.  The  sentiments  of 
this  nation  must  finally  decide  the  dispute  between  them 
and  the  jobbing  ascendancy.  If  they  are  not  sensible  of 
it,  their  enemies  are;  and  there  is  no  degree  of  pains 
which  they  do  not  take  to  prejudice  people  here  against 
them.  *  ♦  #  # 


636  ADDBMBA. 

''They  (the  leaden  of  the  Roman  Catholics)  think  tlttt 
the  condact  of  the  Castle*  is  the  result  of  directions firom 
hence;  and  that  here  they  do  nothing  bat  plot  some 
mischief  against  Ireland.    Alas !  I  wish  they  conld  be 
got  seriously  and  with  a  ruling  spirit,  to  think  of  it  at  all. 
But  things  move  in  the  reyerae  order  from  what  they 
imagine.       They  think  that  ministry  here  instract  the 
Castle ;  and  that  the  Castle  sets  the  jobbing  ascendancy 
in  motion ;  whereas  it  is  now  whoUy,  and  has  ew€X  since  I 
remember,  been  for  the  greater  part  the  direct  contrary. 
The  junta  in  Ireland  entirely  goyems  the  Castle;  tlie 
Castle,  by  its  representations  of  the  country,  goyems  the 
ministry  here ;  so  that  the  whole  evil  has  always  origi- 
nated, and  does  still  originate  amongst  ourseWes.   I  could 
enter  further  into  this,  but  if  they  do  not  take  my  word 
for  it,  I  am  sorry  for  it.    Many  arguments  would  only 
weaken  what  I  take  to  be  an  evident  truth/'-»(N(n;.  2, 
1792.)  

Vol.  II,  page  329— after  13M  line. 

On  the  question  of  the  circulating  medium  as  an  im- 
portant branch  of  political  economy,  he  seems  early  to 
have  entertained  opinions,  which  are  now  considered  the 
most  sound  and  stable.  In  a  recent  debate,  (Feb.  13, 
1826)  on  Country  Banks,  and  the  general  pecuniary 
distress  experienced  throughout  the  country,  they  were 
thus  adverted  to  by  the  Right  Hon.  6.  Canning : 

<'  There  was  no  period  of  our  history  at  which  there  was 
greater  distress  or  greater  difficulty  and  dismay  than  in 
1793.  At  that  period  there  was  published  by  Mr.  Burke, 
a  gentleman  of  no  ordinary  or  doubtful  authority,  a  book, 
every  point  and  sentence  of  which  was  questioned  at  the 
time,  but  the  truth  of  which  was  subsequently  most  fully 
established.    Mr.  Burke,  in  describing  the  French  revo* 

*  The  official  resideuce  in  Dublin  of  the  Lord  lieutenant,  and  conse- 
quently the  seat  of  government. 


ADDENDA.  537 

hitionary  proceedings,  pointed  out  the  mistakes  into  winch 
they  fell  with  respect  to  our  paper  currency ,  and  observed 
that  they  seemed  to  imiagine  *  that  the  prosperity  of  Great 
Britain  grew  out  of  her  paper  currency,  whereas,  in  point 
of  fact,  the  paper  currency  grew  out  of  her  prosperity.'^ 
•  •*••« 

**  It  had  been  his  (Mr.  Canning's)  fortune  to  hear  and 
to  know  Mr.  Burke — a  man,  whose  eloquence  and  whose 
soundness  of  opinions  distinguished  him  as  a  member  of 
that  House.  Unfortunately,  however,  he  had  only  known 
him  but  two  years  before  his  death ;  he  received  a  letter 
from  him  when  confined  at  Bath  to  a  sick  bed,  from 
which  he  never  arose,  on  the  subject  of  the  stoppage  of 
cash  payments  by  the  Bank,  in  which  the  concluding 
sentence  was  to  the  following  effect : — '  Tell  Pitt,  that  if  he 
circulates  one  pound  notes  at  the  same  time  with  guineas, 
he  vrill  never  see  the  guineas  again/  This  was  the  ob- 
servation of  that  great  man,  who,  in  giving  utterance  to 
this  sentiment,  seemed  to  exercise  a  spirit  of  prophecy, 
which  had  so  very  recently  been  verified.'' 


Vol.  II,  page  476 — after  the  4th  line. 

A  dictum  of  Mr.  Fox  has  been  lately  ushered  into  the 
world,  which,  if  truely  stated,  must  be  considered  either  as 
very  unsound  criticism,  or  as  showing  a  strong  leaning  to 
to  his  own  style  of  oratory,  which  was  certainly  deficient  in 
the  point  he  is  made  to  undervalue.  It  is  represented,  that 
when  a  speech  was  praised  in  his  presence,  he  usually 
inquired  whether  it  read  well  ?  and  if  answered  in  the 
affirmative,  replied  '  then  it  was  a  bad  speech.'  No  satis- 
factory reason  perhaps  can  be  assigned  for  such  a  curious, 
perhaps  extravagtmt,  opinion,  which,  if  countenanced  by 
a  shadow  of  truth,  in  a  few  instances  in  our  own  day,  is 
at  variance  with  the  whole  experience  of  the  ancient,  and 
much  of  the  greater  part  of  the  modem  world ;  for  if  it 
were  correct,  it  must  follow  that  the  speeches  of  Demos- 


538  ADDENDA. 

thenes  and  Cicero  were  bad  speeches ;  and  this  will 
scarcely  be  maintained.  The  origin  of  this  critical  he- 
terodoxy, if  it  were  ever  seriously  entertained,  was  per- 
haps some  slight  feeling  of  jealousy  in  the  mind  of  the 
eminent  man  in  question,  of  the  daily  increasing  celebrity 
of  Burke's  speeches,  while  his  own,  he  might  conceive, 
containing  fewer  of  the  same  materials  for  immortality 
which  characterised  those  of  his  old  friend  and  master, 
and  when  no  longer  supported  by  the  influence  of  his  per- 
sonal popularity  or  party  attachments,  might  either  remain 
Stationary,  or  possibly  retrograde  in  opinion. 


Vol.  II,  page  34— o/i^er  the  8th  line. 

In  pointing  out  the  necessity  for  a  revision  of  the 
criminal  laws  of  the  country,  which  he  urged  were  wholly 
disproportioned  in  the  severity  of  the  punishments  they 
directed  c^ainst  trivial  offences,  he  was  accustomed  to 
tell  a  story  indicative  of  the  indifference  with  which 
these  vindictive  enactments  were  frequently  permitted  to 
pass  through  parliament.  On  an  evening,  when  an  im- 
portant discussion  was  expected  to  come  on  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  he  entered  the  smoking]  room,  which  con- 
tained many  members  who  were  not  usually  at  their  posts, 
and  on  inquiring  of  one,  who  looked  particularly  dis- 
appointed, the  cause  of  his  dejection,  received  for  answer 
— ^^  Have  you  not  heard  then?  The  great  debate  is  put 
off; — and  I  left  them  doing  nothing  but  voting  a  few 
capital  felonies."  The  admirers  of  Mr.  Burke  will  be 
hiq)py  to  find,  that  this  subject  which  was  so  near  to  his 
heart,  and  the  little  attention  to  which  was  regretted  by 
him  still  more  in  private  society  than  in  public,  has  been 
so  ably  and  successfully  taken  up  by  Mr.  Peel ;  a  measure 
that  must  render  his  name  pre-eminent  among  the  great 
benefactors  of  his  country.    ** 


INDEX 


Abdisl^  Mr.  Burke  oompaxei  to ii.  16S 

Abingdon^  Earl  of. i.  S28 

Absentees,  Irish,  proposed  tax  upon i.  251 

Addington,  Mr. ii.  34,  97 

AJairsi,  heads  for  consideration  on  ' L  196 

Agency  for  New  York i,  241 

America,  meditates  going  to i.  49,  73 

American  ConciHation,  speech  on L*288 

Taxation,  speech  on i,  259 

— ^— — ^— ^—  question  of  the  right  of i.  299 

Annual  Register    i.    85 

Answers  to  reflections  on  French  Revolution '.   iL  121 

Appeal  from  New  to  Old  Whigs ii.  169 

Arcot,  Nabob,  speech  on  the  debts  of i.  467 

Arms,  the  family,  of  Burke ii.  403 

Army  estimates,  debate  on    iL    71 

Artist,  adventure  with  an iL      4 

Arts,  communication  on  the,  to  Barry i.  421 

Aucldand's,  Lord,  letter  to  Burke iL  311 

I  I  from  Buike iL  312 

—————  pamphlet,  answer  to iL  316 

Authorship i*  59,  ^ 

Bwrott,  SirW L219,221 

Bafiitore L    11 

Bane,  Colonel,  enthusiasm  of  on  one  of  Burke's  speeches..   L  337 

— ^— —  pension  to L  413 

Barrett,  the  painter L  203 

Barry,  the  painter i.  125,  200,  287,  ^&5 

letters  to,  L  174,   177,  201,  204,  208,  210, 

213,  266,  268, 272,  324 

Bath,  Mr.  Burke  at L    60 

Beattie,  Dr. L  238  ;  iL  115 

Bede,  the  venerable,  character  of L    75 

Bedford,  Duke  of. iL  387,  S39 

Beggars,  charity  of  Burke  to L  463 

Birmingham,  merchants  of,  letter  to  Burke L  286 

Black  horse,  anecdote  of  Burke's  humanity  to i.  123 

BoKngbrdLe,  Lord,  imitation  of  the  manner  of. L    5S 


540  INDEX. 

Bolingfaroke,  Lord^  lus  modeof  oompoddan L    57 

Boston  Port  Bill    , L  25(5 

Bojd,  Hugh ][..   H.  115 

Bourl^nSj  advice  to  the. L  240 

Brecon,  Archdeacon  of,  and  Burke i  172 

Brissot's  Address  to  his  Constituents  • n.  259 

Bristol,  Mr.  Burke  elected  for i.  280 

->  his  letter  oonoeming ii.    5S 

,  rejected  at L  370 

Brockleshy,  Dr. i.  13,42;  ii.  I91 

Brooke,  Henry,  ridiculed  by  Burke L    3S 

Bull,  a,  made  by  Burke i.  245 

Burgh,  Thomas,  Esq.,  letter  to L  35^ 

Burke,  Edmund's,  father^  letter  to    i.    50 

birth  of i.      6 

compared  with  Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr.  Fox. .  ii.  505 

alleged  irritability  of. iL  427 

-^— ^— — —  conversation  of ii.  415 

■  considered  as  an  orator ii.  454,  468 

■  death  and  funeral  of. iL  SQSy  399 

— — — —  disinterestedness  of L  16S,  173,  407 

freedom  from  envy  of ii.  281,  431 

eloquence,  ceneral  character  of. iL  458 

humility  of   , ii.  ifig 

--— —  first  effort  in  parliament L  149 

humanity  of L  123,  367,  883,  381 

srief  of  for  the  loss  of  his  son iL  272,  279 

letter  to  his  father i    50 

— — — —  moral  character  <rf    iL  424 

■  opinions  of. iL  438 

person  of iL  409 

piety  of. iL4«4 

'  public  principles  of iL  494 

'■  qualifications  of  for  parliament  ......    i.  17O 

false  reports  concerning L  6I,  367;  ii.  386 

reoollecCions  of,  by  Baron  Smith ii.  527 

•— schools  educatal  at L  8,  11 

speeches  of   ii.  475 

wit  of L  310,  325,  351, 355 ;  iL  420 

general  character  of  the  writings  of,  iL  477,  486 

«eal  of ii.  432 

anecdotes  of iL  329,  353 


family  of L      2 

Garrett    ' . . .  13,5 

Mrs.  Jane  Mary I6O;  n,  272,  405 

poetical  tribute  to L    65 


Richard,  brother  to  Edmund,  L  5,  7, 100,  150, 415 ;  iL  248 

Jun.  son  to  Edmund,  L  74,  379,  468;  ii.  184|, 

199,  223,  265,  266 
•  lamentations  for  the  death  of ii.  280 


INDEX.  541 

Burke^  Ricfaard,  jun.  letters  from,  to  Mr«  Smith , . . .  iL  ISL  223 

— — — ^—  letter  to  Miss  French  ^ ii,  266 

■  letters  to  Mrs.  French li.  63,  69 

Thomas  Haviland 1.6;  iL  406,  412 

William 1311 

Buivoyne^  General I  39S,  399 

Butter's  Court,  poetical  description  of. • .    i.  460 

■  destruction  of  by  fire ii.  407 

Campbell's,  Dr.,  anecdote  of  Burke L  505 ;  ii.  444 

Cannibal  Republic,  character  of  the ii.  376 

Canon  of  Litchfield,  anecdote  of i    92 

Caricatures  of  Burke  and  Fox ii  l64 

Castletown  Roche i.  2>  8 

Catherine  of  Russia • i  183 

Caaal«i,  M ii.  1 98,  438,  527 

Charlemont,  Lord i.  105,  168,506 

letters  to,  from  Burke,  L  312,  408,  514,  515; 

ii.  21,  23, 34,  41, 100,  184 

Chatham,  Lord  i.  149^  156,  339 

Children,  Mr.  Burke's  fondness  for  L  1 12 

Clootz,  Anacharsis ii  128 

Coalition  ministry i.  415 

— — ^— -  dismission  of   i.  440 

Conduct  'of  the  minority,  observations  on,  by  Burke  ....  ii.  228 

Corporation  and  Test  Acts    . ; ii    9^ 

Crabb,  Rev.  Mr. ii  426 

Crewe's,  Mr.,  anecdote  of  Burke  and  Sheridan  at    ii.     1 

Cruger,  Mr i  284 

Curwen,  Mr. ii  154,  442 

Cumberland,  Mr ii  111 

letter  to ii  111 

Dagger  produced  by  Mr.  Burke  in  the  House  of  Commons,  iL  203 

Debates,  publishing  of  the i.  236 

Debt,  imprisonment  for. .  • ii  I6I 

Debt  Sing,  cruelties  of i.  493 

Dialogue  with  Burke i.  506 

Discontents,  pamphlet  on  the i.  231 

Dissenters,  relief  of  the i  242  ;  ii.  94, 193 

Dolphin,  Oliver,  Esq.  letters  to ii  52,  247,  307 

Dowdeswell,  Mr.,  Epitaph  on i  317 

Doyle,  Mr.,  trick  upon  Foote ,,    i.  166 

Dunning,  Mr. i  357,  413 

Dundas,  Right  Hon.  Henry ii  234 

Dyer,  Mr.,  suspected  as  the  author  of  Junius's  Letters  • .    i.  194 


x/ 


Economical  reform i  354, 380,  406 

Eden,  Mr.,  first  proposer  of  the  coalition  in  1783    i  416 

EUenborough,  Lord ii  479 


542  INDEX. 

Elliot^  Wm.  Esq.  kUer  to «...  iLSOO 

Emigrants,  anecdote  of  with  Buile iL  175 

Emin,  Yuser^^  account  of iL  515 

Eneidj  Mr.  Burke's  estimate  of. L    2S 

England,  he  travels  in •  • . . .  i.    40 

English  history,  puhlication  of  the  abrid^ent  of L    74 

Epitaph,  a  jocular,  on  Burke,  by  Goldsnuth L  264 

<■     ■    "  pcoDOsed  alteration  of  that  on  Goldsmith L  514 

■  on  Mr,  Dowdeswell  L  317 

■             on  Sir  Greoige  Saville. L  452 

Er8kine,Lotd LdOl,410;  iL  118, 1 59>  301,  472 

European  settlements  in  America,  history  of  the L   66 

Eustatius,  St. L  295,  410 

Fitzherbert,  Mr.    L  95, 134,  153 

FitzwiUiam,  Earl ii.  259>  266,  299>  393,  397 

Flood,  Mr.,  letter  to L  1 1 4, 120 

'  motion  for  reform ii.    QS 

Florence,  Grand  Duke  of,  proposal  to  Mr.  Pitt iL  384 

Vn,  Mr.,  L  222,  301,  401 ;  ii.  138,  157,  195, 200,  201,208,  215 

218,  227>  260,  439,  512 

letter  to L829,  397 

Foote,  the  wit,  trick  upon L  166 

France,  visited  by  Mr.  Burke  . .» • . .  L  73, 246 

■    revolution  in iL    35 

Francis,  Mr.,  letter  to ,^ L  327 

Franklin,  Dr. L  1 85,  258j  306,  392,  ^6 

French  Bevdution iL  35,  70 

■       reflections  on iL  101 

French  a£Giirs, memorial  on iL  182 

■  ■  ■        Mrs. L4;]L54 

letters  to. iL  54,  58,  62,  63,  65,66,  68,  €9 

-— — «  clergy,  appeal  in  favour  of. ii.  17I 


Gahwm,  Mr.,  letter  to iL  36l 

Gentibmen  of  Bristol,  two  letters  to •  • . . .    L  341 

G^nlis,  Madame  de iL  176 

Gaorgic,  translation  of  part  of  the  second L    24 

Gibbon,  Mr. L  357 ;  ii.  1 1 0,  22 1 

Gill,  Wm.,  a  play-mate  of  Burke L    I6 

Goldsmith,  Dr. L  128 

Goold,  Serjeant » .  • .  iL  478 

Gordon,  L<ird  George  • L  361 

GrattaOf  Mr.,  opinion  of  Burke L  9^  ;  iL  446 

Giegories, estateof. L  177 

Hall,  Rev.  Robert iLll3 

Hamilton,  Mr.  Gerrard L  106,  113;  u.  99>  ^1 

Hartley,  Mr.,  anecdote  of  Burke's  wit  upon    i  310 

Hardy,  Mr.,  account  of  a  visit  to  Beaconsfield L  5l6 


INDEX.  548 

HastlngSj  Mr.j  character  of « .  •  •    i  489 

■  prosecution  of *     L  470 

peroration  to  the  charges  againBt L  496 

Havilandj  General^  anecdotes  of i.  454,  456;  iL  404 

Mrs.  Salisbury. ...  i.  457, 459 ;  ii-  306,  808,  810, 404 

Mrs.  Mary    ii  866,  809 

Henry  IV.  of  France^  charaoter  of  , , . . , , .  ii.  129 

Hennesscrjr^  Mrs.,  letters  to    •  •  ii.  56«  60 

HiBtorical  Society,  the,  of  Dublin L    82 

Hickey,  Mr.,  the  sculptor !•  409;  ii.  411 

House  of  Commons,  character  of  the L  248 

«>—*———  effects  of  speaking  well  in i  820 

Howard,  the  philanthropist,  character  of L  878 

Hume,  the  historian i.    9^ 

Hutcheson,  Dr.  Francis,  character  of   i.    48 

India  Affidrs,  reports  upon • « . .    i.  418 

IndiaBill i  488 

•^— —  speech  on,  by  Burke i.  488 

Indians,  motion  on  the  military  employment  of,  in  America,  i.  SS6 
Ireland,  trade  of,  motion  for  revising  the  laws  relating  to     L  889 

visited  by  Burke L  40,  110^  128,  162,502 

affairs  of i  859, 892 

Irish  absentees,  proposed  tax  upon ...••«    i*  250 

■  ■    ■  propositions L  466 

Johnson,  Dr.'s,  acquaintance  with  Burke, ••••••..    L    90 

»  his  admiration  of  him , . . .  i.  91 ;  ii*  487 

■  anecdotes  of L  275 

■  compared  with  Burke i  276 

'  deau  of i,  454 

>  sarcasm  against  Mallet  and  Bolinghroke. .    i    54 

Jones,  Sir  W.,  letters  to    i.  850,  887 

Junius's  Letters ,    L  186 

'    ■■  authorship  of. .,,,... * L  189 

■  '  character  of , L  288 ;  iL  467 

Jury  Bill   i.2S6;  ii,  157 

Kenmare,  Lord L  100,  895 

Keppel,  Admiral,  character  of L  844 

Kilcolman,  Spenser^s  Castle L      2 

King  John,  character  of i.   88 

Kin^s,  Dr.  Walker,  chancter  of  young  Burke iL  282 

Lamranc,  Archbishop L    81 

Lancrishe,  Sir  Hercules,  letters  to iL  185, 299 

Lauoerdale,  Earl  of iL  850 

Laurens,  Hon.  H L  895,  899;  iL  122 

Law  and  Lawyers iL  l60 

Lawrence,  Dr.  French,  letters  of  . . . .  iL  268,  269,  278,  275,  277 
■  ■  ■'  character  of  Burke iL  446 


544  INDEX. 

Lawrence^  Dr.  French,  his  chancier   iL449 

Leadbeater,  Mrs i  12;  u.  205,  994 

letters  to i  461 ;  iL  205,  394 


•,  General,  letter  to » L  257 

Lectures  on  Commerce L  455 

Letter  to  Sherifis  of  Bristol i.  522 

Levis',  Duke  de,  opinion  of  Burke's  oratory li.  470 

Libels,  dennsed  by  Burke  • L  576 

Literary  dub i  128 

Litchfield,  Canon  of L    9^ 

Logan,  Rev.  Mr L  585 

London,  first  visit  to,  by  Burke i    56 

Loughrea,  visited  by  Burke L  l64 

Lucas,  Dr.  Charles,  ridiculed  by  Burke. .  •  • i.    55 

Mackintosh,  Sir  James iL  122 

Macartney,  Lord i  67,  579 ;  ii-  556 

Malton,  returned  Member  for    i.  280,  575 

Man,  Rights  of ii.  122, 126 

Maraine,  Abb6 iL  555,  558 

Margate,  anecdotes  of  Burke  at    iL  l62 

Marky,  Dean,  poetry  of L  459 

Marriage  Act,  speech  against  the  repeal  of :    L  587 

Meath,  Bishop  of L  120;  ii.  279,  395 

Menonville,  M.  de,  letters  to    » ii.    45,    47 

Mercer,  Mr. iL  79*  81,    92 

letter  to iL    SS 

Metaphysics  and  Metaphyddans,  opinions  of L  238 

Middle  Temple,  Burke's  entry  at  the  1.    55 

Milton,  a  favourite  poet  of  Burke L    51 

Minority,  observations  on  the  conduct  of  the    ii.  228 

Mirabeau,  M.  de iL  458 

Montague,  Mr.,  letter  to  ...• iL    25 

Montesquieu,  M.  de iL  50,  568 

Montmorin,  M.  de,  proposed  memorial  to. iL  157 

Momine  Chronicle,  paragraph  in iL  169 

Moser,  Mr.,  letter  to L  479 

Murphy,  Mr. i.  48,  149 

letters  to iL  245 

Nagile,  Sir  Edmund L      6 

Mr.,  letters  to. ... .' L  88,  100,  156,  l66,  174 

Mr.  Garret,  letters  to,  L 176,  228, 239,  240,  241 ;  iL  951, 

525 

National  Assembly,  letter  to  a  Member  of iL  135 

— _«—...—..-  character  of , iL  195 

Neero  Code •  •  iL  191 

Noble  Lord,  letter  to iL  537 

Noble,  Mr. L  376,  378 

■   ■  letter  to  the  author L  576 


INDEX.  545 

N«rrti,  Lord i.  Wf,  8S7,  «51,  S5S,  35«,  416 

Norfolk,  Duke  of ii.  303 

Nugent,  Dr i.  60,  307 

,  Mi88>  becomes  the  wife  of  Burke    i-    60 

i  ■,  character  of i.    61 

CyBeime,  Bishop i  120;  iL  279,  ^95 

Obedieoce  of  a  Kepresentative  to  Constituents  questioned   L  281 

O'Hidloran,  the  first  sdioolmaster  of  Burke    i.      8 

CHtw,  General,  letter  to    ii.  241 

Omer,  St,  reports  of  Burke  beii^g  educated  at i  46,  376 

— — ,  Mr.  Wilkes's  story  about i    46 

Order,  Burke's  description  ef   it    17 

Owen,  the  bookseller,  conduct  of »  ii  390 

Oxford,  Mr.  Burke  at    11220 

Pame,  Thomas,  recommended  to  Buike  iL  ISS 

■  ,  character  of ii  124 

,  his  pamphlet ii  126 

Parliamentary  Reform i.  418,  466 

— *- ,  letter  on,  hf  Burke i  360 

PaiT,Dr.    i.  618 ;  ii  76,  227,  441,  517 

Parties,  state  of,  in  1765 i  141 

Party,  choice  of i  405 

>,  supposed  to  favour  the  Frendi  Rerolution ii.  116 

Patronage  not  to  be  declined i  181 

Peera^  intended  for  Burke ii.  281 

Pelissier,  Dr.,  tutor  to  Burke    i    20 

Peon,  emigrant  school  at ii  352 

Pensions  received  by  Mr.  Burke i  113 ;  ii  334 

Pitt,  Mrs.  Anne i    94 

,  Mr.,  (Earl  of  Chatham)  compliments  Burke's  first 

speech  in  Parliament,    i  149 
,  his  administration  in  1766  characterised   ....    i.  156 

,  his  public  character i  157 

,  satire  upon , i.  159 

',  Right  Hon.  W.,  (lie  son)  character  of i  442 

— ■     .  ■'  ii.  18,  72,   139,   195,  209 

difference  of  his  views 


and  Burke's  on  the  war,  ii.  379 
leading     points    of 


character  as  a  statesman,  ii.  506 
letter  to,  from  the 


Prince  of  Wales  0a  the  Regency,  ii.    10 

Plaistow,  Mr.  Burke  at • i    ^ 

Poet,  distressed,  relieved  by  Burke    , i  381 

Poetry,  specimens  of  his  own i  25,    29 

Policy  of  the  Allies,  remmrks  on   ii.  239 

Portland,  letter  to  the  Duke  of ii.  228 

— — ^—  party  join  the  Ministry ii  259 

VOL.  II.  2  N 


546  INDEX. 

Pfiestlcnr>  Dr.,  anecdateof  Botke  by. iS66 

Print  of  Mr.  Burke    . . . ,  ^ iL  IdS 

'  his  son    . . , iL  482 

Qaeen,  anecdote  of  the  ,,.,,., , iL    16- 

Regency  question^  the   , iL     6 

Regicide  Peace,  letters  on  a iL  96^ 

Revolution  in  France   . . « w « iL  35,  Al,  ^$  47,  70 

— •- — ^ : — [ —  Burke's  first  opinions  on  .  . .  .iL  41,  48,  47 

■   ■      : —  Reflections  on  the,  published   .  • . .  iL  101 ' 

.  in  Poland. , , ii.  140 

IteporjLi  (^Select  Committee  on. India  affiiirs ^ . .    L  41S 

R^ort  upon  the  Journals  of  the  Lords,  respecting  HastingB' 

trial,  iL  25S 

■  speech  in  support  of « iL  ft55 

Reynolds,  Sir  Joshua,  and  Madame  de  Genlis iL  177 

•.-^ ^-; ^ print  of  Burke iL  iSS 

-^ -—  death  of  . . . , , iL  1S7 

■  ■  character  of,  by  Burke ii,  189 

Richards,  Baron,  anecdote  of  Burke L  172 

Rights  of  Man  characterised IL  126 

Rioters,  interceded  for  by  Burke , L  363 

Robertson,  Dr.,  the  historian,  lettei'  to, , L  332 

Robin  Hood,  debating  society  at  the L  127 

Rockingham,  Marquis,  character  of i.  133 

,    ^ and  Burke,,  anecdote  of. L  135 

:-: — — L  140,  153,  180,319,410 

.  ' —  insmption  on  the  monument  to  . .    i.  519 

Rodney,  Admiral L  380,  410 

Roman  CathoUcs,  L  342,  $95  ;  ii.  l60,  184,  186,  221,  USB,  2dS> 

.299 
Rousseau,  J.  J.,  character  of iL  136 

Round  Robin  sent  to  Dr.  Johnson L  S14> 

Saville,  Sir  George,  character  of L  450 

— P^ ^^  epitaph  on L  452 

Scarcity,  thoughts  and  details  on iL  323,  328 

Schlegel,  M.,  opinion  of  Burke « iL  512 

Scotsmen,  opinion  of L  449 

Shackleton,  family  of L^  12 

-I ,  Richard,  L  14,  19,  40,  112,  362,  459;  ii-  166,  1«8, 

i      204 

■  ,  lines  addressed  to  on  his  marriage  . .    L    99 

«.*-«^— -,  Miss,  lines  of,  on  Butler's  Court. L'460 

— —  letter  to,  from  Burke   i..4iri 

Shelbume,  Lord    L  404,  406,  410,  412,  414,  5B5 

Sheridan,  Mr L  390,  501 ;  ii.  1, 32,  73,  77^  253,  468,  61« 

■■  Mrs « .   iL  .  81 

Short  account  of  a  late  short  Administration .^    L  1-58 


INDEX.  $4^ 

Simkin'8  letters^  allusioa  in,  toBorke  , u  479 

Slave  Tjade    i.  368;  ii.  38 

Slei^,  Dr. i.  13,  4« 

South,  Dr.  Adam ^ . . .    i.    97 

Smith,  Wm.,  Esq.  (now  Baxon)    ii.  178 

— lettefB  to L,  179.  223,  232,  295,  321 

■  Ifittesr  from,  to  Bux^   u.  286 

Spenser,  the  Poet i.      s 

^jbale  of  the  nation,  obaemtions  on  (pamphlet) ,    u  18S 

Statue  to  Bnrke,  proposed  in  Ireland   i.  3^ 

Statute  of  £dward  I ,.., L  S08 

Stewart,  Dugald,  Eaj. i  43,  45;  449 

Strolling  players  and  Burke,  anecdote  of i.  384 

Studies,  early,  of  Burke i.    22 

SuUime  and  Beautiful,  Essay  on L    57 

Swinish  multitude,  phrase  of ii.  117 

Tadtus,  criticism  on  the  style  of ii  243 

Test  and  Corporation  Acts ii    94 

Thurlow,Lord i.  365;  ii.  195,255,437 

^,  reply  to ii  255 

Unirenity  of  Dublin i.  19,  21 

■     ■  ,  address  from ii.  106 

— ,  letter  to  from  Burke ii.  106 

' Gksgow i.  36,448 

■ Oxford,  address  from iL  108 

"                                   letter  to  Mr.  Windham  concerning,  ii.  108 
■   '  visited  by  Mr.  Burke    iL  220 


Valenciennes,  surrender  of ii.  234 

Vemey,  Lord i.  13p 

Vesey,  A.,  Esq.,  letter  to i,  103 

Vindication  of  natural  society  ii    53 

Vdtaire ii    50 

Waite,  Mr,  Secretary,  letter  from i.  1 17 

Wales,  His  R.  H.  the  Prince  rf i.  378,  ii.  10,  2oi  195 

Walker,  Elocution,  anecdote  of. i.  s65 

Walpole,  Sir  Robert i.  lOj 

Wannirton,  Bishop,  anecdotes  of i.  94,  95 

Watson,  Bish(m 1.  3S8 

War,  French  Revolutionary ii  207 

Webster,  Mrs i.  384;  il  270,  357,  405,  451 

Wife,  idea  of  a  perfect  one   , i.    62 

Wilberforoe,  Mr ii.  445,  468 

Whigs,  state  of,  in  1765    i.  132 

Whittmffton,  letter  of i,  159 

Wilkes,  Mr. i.  46,  152,  184 

— letter  to ii.  123 

2  N  2 


% 


54S  INDEX. 

William  the. Conqueror L   79 

Windhwa,  Mr u.  964,  499 

Wmatsalej,  Rev.  Mr 11.  220 

Wirteinberg>  Prince  q(,  letter  to m  5S4 

Woffington,  Mrs.   i.    49 

Wolf»  tfieariog  the. . , i.  39s 

Wimaamsm%  Connt.de iL  185 

«  •   •       •  •   • 

Yfokf  conduct  of  the  AichhUiop  of &.  482 


THB   BND. 


C.  Baldwin,  Printer,  •  T^y. 

N«w  Bi1dK«  Street.  London. 


X'T 


-'f  •       »"    ,-  T   ' 


iM3?  a3a:^jf 


■  s 


>    , 


-<         ' 


Lki^ox  Library 


f 


J      Bntwrxrll  CxrlUiiittm.      ! 


