presented  to 

Xfbran? 

of  tbe 

of  Toronto 


Mrs.  J.S.  Hart 


THE     FRANCIS 
LETTERS 


T 


HE  FRANCIS 
LETTERS 


SIR   PHILIP   FRANCIS 

AND  OTHER  MEMBERS  OF  THE  FAMILY 

.    .    .   Edited  by  BEATA  FRANCIS 

and  ELIZA  KEARY  . 


WITH  A   NOTE  ON         *       *       *       *       * 

THE  JUNIUS   CONTROVERSY 

By    C   F.   KEARY        =      -      -      -      - 


WITH    PORTRAITS 


VOL.  II 


NEW   YORK  ^ 

E.  R  DUTTON  AND  CO 
LONDON  *  *  *  * 
HUTCHINSON  AND  CO 


DR 


F8RH 


PRINTED  BY 

HAZELL,   WATSON,  AND  VINEY,   LD. 
LONDON  AND  AYLESBURY. 


CONTENTS. 


PERIOD  IV.  (1781—1802) 34I 

V.  (1802-1804) .  497 

„       VI.  (1804-1818) 577 


ILLUSTRATIONS. 


PAGE 

SIR    PHILIP   FRANCIS,    FROM   A    LIFE-SIZE  PORTRAIT   BY    HOPPNER, 
TAKEN  iNiSn Frontispiece 

GEORGIANA,  DUCHESS  OF  DEVONSHIRE    .                432 

GEORGE,  PRINCE  OF  WALES 475 

ELIZABETH,  SECOND  DAUGHTER  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS      .        .        .  508 

MRS.    FlTZHERBERT 561 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  SON  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS 579 

ELIZA  JOHNSON,  WIFE  OF  PHILIP  FRANCIS 596 

CATHERINE,  YOUNGEST  DAUGHTER  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  SECOND 

WIFE  OF  GEORGE  JAMES  CHOLMONDELEY 635 

GEORGE  JAMES  CHOLMONDELEY 688 


PERIOD     IV. 
1781—1802. 

This  Period^  which  covers  a  considerable  number  of  years,  begins 
with  letters  from  Philip  Francis  to  his  friends  in  India,  describing 
the  Society  and  politics  of  home.  Francis's  Parliamentary  career  begins 
in  1784,  and  is  here  continued  through  three  General  Elections.  There 
are  letters  of  Francis  to  his  Indian  friends,  and  a  correspondence 
with  Edmund  Burke,  all  largely  concerned  with  the  impeachment  of 

Warren  Hastings.  Later  we  have  a  correspondence  between  Francis 
and  Georgiana,  Duchess  of  Devonshire.  Francis's  intimacy  with  the 
Prince  of  Wales  begins  about  1790,  and  from  that  time  he  and  his 
family  were  much  at  Brighton.  Letters  are  written  by  his  daughters 
from  that  place,  others  from  their  homes  at  St.  James's  Square  and 
at  East  Sheen,  or  from  different  houses  at  which  they  were  staying : 
Broadlands  (Lord  Palmerstori),  Woburn  (the  Duke  of  Bedford}, 

Waver  ley  (Mr.  Poulett-Thomson},  Courteen  Hall  (Sir  W.   Wake],  etc. 


VOL.    II.  341 


PERIOD   IV. 

1781 — 1802* 
PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MACKENZIE  IN  INDIA. 

"  LONDON, 
"Nov.  24,  1781. 

"  DEAR  MACKENZIE, 

"  You  must  not  expect  many  words  from  a 
man  in  such  a  Hurry  as  I  am.  Our  great  Friend, 
(for  I  promise  you  he  is  mine  as  well  as  yours)  was 
one  of  the  first  Persons  I  sought,  the  Day  after  my 
Arrival.  He  was  not  in  Town  ;  but  he  favor'd  me 
with  the  Honor  of  a  Visit,  as  soon  as  he  returned, 
tho'  he  did  not  know  that  I  had  been  in  quest  of 
him.  You  will  not  wonder  that  /  shou'd  approve, 
(as  I  do  most  cordially)  all  of  his  doctrines  and 
Advice,  when  I  tell  you  that  he  pronounc'd  my 
panegryic  thro'  all  and  every  part  of  my  publick 
Conduct,  in  the  warmest  and  most  powerful  Terms. 
He  asserts  too,  what  indeed  is  confirmed  to  me  from 
all  quarters,  that  all  men's  opinions,  about  me,  run 
in  the  same  channel.  He  spoke  of  you  with  the 
utmost  kindness  and  regard.  On  a  certain  subject 
I  am  convinc'd  he  is  totally  uninform'd,  and  I  hope 
he  will  always  be  so.  For  God's  Sake  my  Friend, 
take  a  manly  decided  Resolution  at  Once.  Be 
assured  there  is  no  salvation  for  you  without  it. 


343 


344  ^be  jfrancis  Xetters  [1781 

"  Mr.  Wheler  will  tell  you  how  graciously  I   have 

been  received  everywhere  \ 

"  Yours  Yours, 

"P:F: 

"  My  family  are  all  perfectly  well,  so  is  our  Friend 
Duncan  Davidson,  Sunbury  is  a  Paradise !  and  they 
wish  me  to  have  it.  I  saw  your  Friends  the  Gemmels 
two  days  ago  all  in  good  health.  My  Lord  Lough- 
borough  did  me  the  favour  to  dine  here  last  Sunday, 
en  famille  at  his  own  Desire.  Nobody  but  Mrs.  F., 
and  my  three  Daughters,  who  all  desire  their  Compli- 
ments to  you." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  SIR  JOHN  DAY.1 

"  LONDON, 
"November  24^,  1781. 

"  I  beg  you  will  tell  Lady  Day  that  I  took  special 
care  of  her  parcel  for  the  Queen,  and  brought  it  on 
shore  with  me  in  a  cutter,  in  which  I  had  the  pleasure 
of  travelling  forty  miles  in  the  dead  of  night,  and 
which  landed  me  at  last  at  Dover,  on  October  igth. 
I  sent  the  parcel  next  morning,  as  directed.  Mr. 
Ramus  was  at  Windsor,  and  I  have  not  seen  him  ; 
but  Mrs.  Ramus  sent  me  a  very  obliging  message. 
When  I  had  the  honour  of  being  presented  to  the 
Queen,  on  the  25th  of  last  month,  I  told  her  Majesty 
what  I  had  done.  She  said  she  had  not  received 
it,  but  honoured  me  with  many  thanks,  &c.  You 
must  know  I  was  told  by  everybody  that  the  Queen 
was  the  politest  woman  in  Europe  (N.B.  they  know 
nothing  of  the  politeness  of  Asia  or  St.  Helena),  and 

1  Advocate-General  in  India. 


iy8i]  Ube  jfrancis  Xettere  345 

I  declare  I  think  so ;  at  least  it  has  not  fallen  to  my 
lot  to  see  anything  comparable  to  the  gracefulness, 
affability,  and  dignity  with  which  she  expressed  herself 
to  me  and  to  everybody.  In  addition  to  all  which, 
I  did  not  know  there  had  been  so  many  diamonds 
in  the  world  as  her  Majesty  was  covered  with.  I 
had  the  honour  of  a  most  gracious  reception  from 
the  King  a  day  before.  They  say  it  was  distinguished. 
Having  paid  my  duty  at  St.  James's  and  my  visit 
to  my  Lord  North,  I  have  literally  sought  no  man, 
except  my  own  particular  friends.  Indeed,  there  are 
very  few  people  in  town.  The  honourable  Court  of 
Directors  have  shown  no  sign  of  life  ;  but  they  know 
that  I  am  alive,  and,  as  long  as  they  know  that,  I  think 
they  will  not  quarrel  with  me.  When  you  read  my  letter 
to  them  of  October  i2th,  1780,  you  will  not  wonder 
that  they  are  not  passionately  fond  of  my  company. 

"  I  am,  dear  Sir, 

"  Your  most  obedient  and  most  faithful 
"  humble  servant 

"P.  FRANCIS." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  WIFE. 

"  PAULTON'S,1 

"Monday  Morning,  9  o 'Clock, 
"31  Dec.,  1781. 

"  MY  DEAREST  WIFE, 

"  I    have   nothing   to   tell   you,    but   that    1 
arrived  here  last  night  about  seven   in  good  order  ; 

1  The  house  of  Welbore  Ellis,  Esq.  It  was  through  Ellis  (then 
Secretary  at  War)  that  Francis  obtained  his  post  of  First  Clerk  in 
the  War  Office. 


346  TTbe  jfrancls  Xetters  [1781 

and  found  a  most  comfortable  house  with  accommo- 
dations of  every  sort.  This  is  the  Stile,  in  which  I 
should  like  to  live.  I  have  enough  to  eat,  without 
being  tormented  to  eat  it.  There  is  no  Company 
here,  so  I  have  Mr.  Ellis  to  myself. 
'  Remember  me  kindly  to  my  Offspring, 

"  Yours,  dearest,  yours 

"P.  F. 

We  are  in  Excellent  quarters,  before  Heaven !  " 
PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  GEORGE  SHEE. 

"  LONDON, 
"  i$th  January,  1782. 

"  DEAR  SHEE, 

"  Livius  and  Hay  will  give  you  my  history 
in  Detail.  Suffice  it  then  to  tell  you  that  I  am  in 
good  health  and  Spirits,  contented  and  happy.  My 
family  is  everything  I  could  wish,  and  I  shall  have 
fortune  enough  to  maintain  them.  .  .  .  Your  worthy 
Uncle  [J.  Bourke],  I  think  is  in  higher  Order 
than  ever,  I  never  saw  greater  health  and  spirits 
nor  a  Whiter  Head.  He  has  possession  of  all  your 
Letters  to  me  and  I  hope  will  answer  them  himself.  .  .  . 
Inclosed  I  send  you  a  very  curious  pamphlet.  You 
had  better  however  not  be  known  to  possess  it. 
Except  that  I  would  have  you  send  it  to  Collings 
when  you  are  sure  of  a  safe  Conveyance.  I  hope 
you  and  he  are  doing  well,  and  that  we  shall  all 
meet  once  more,  but  not  in  Bengal ;  I  mean  always, 
before  we  meet  in  heaven.  .  .  .  We  have  all  the 
Bengal  News  to  the  End  of  January  1781.  New 


1782]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetter0  347 

Establishments,  Increase  of  Expenses,  etc.,  without 
end  or  moderation  !  Observe  that  I  have  sold  out 
all  my  India  Stock,  except  a  single  Qualification 
tho'  at  the  loss  of  above  ,£2,000.  This  Day  Twelve- 
month, I  have  no  doubt  of  being  able  to  purchase 
the  same  Stock  at  half  the  Price  I  sold  at.  Be 
assured  I  shall  not  invest  your  property  in  that  Fund. 
"  And  so  farewell, 

"  Yours  etc., 

"  P.  FRANCIS. 

"  GEORGE  SHEE  ESQ.,  I  hope  at  Ferokabad." 

In  the  last  letter  Francis  mentions  his  means ; 
whilst  he  was  in  India  he  wrote  to  Mr.  D'Oyly  : — 

"  I  shall  take  your  advice  and  never  think  of 
England  without  an  independent  Fortune." 

The  fortune  which  he  made,  partly  by  his  winnings 
at  whist  and  partly  by  saving  out  of  his  income,  was 
not  a  large  one ;  but  it  enabled  him  to  live  inde- 
pendently, without  being  obliged  to  seek  any  employ- 
ment for  pay  and  thus  gave  him  the  leisure  and  the 
power  to  devote  his  life  to  Politics  and  public  affairs. 

In  another  letter  Francis  says  he  had  an  income 
°f  ^3»ooo  a  year,  and  adds  that  even  with  the  strictest 
economy  he  found  it  difficult  to  live  on  that  sum 
in  London  according  to  his  needs 

The  high  praise  given  to  him  concerning  the  time 
of  his  employment  in  India  is  that  "  in  an  age  and 
country  of  corruption  with  every  opportunity  of  en- 
riching himself  at  the  expense  of  the  Indian  Public, 
he  preserved  his  hands  and  his  conscience  clean." 


348  ZTbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  [1782 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  GEORGE  HORSELEY 
AT  BOMBAY. 

"  LONDON, 
"DEAR   SIR,  "^th  January,  ,782. 

"  .  .  .  You  and  your  friends  at  Bombay,  I 
think,  are  materially  concerned  in  some  of  the 
Declarations  made  by  Mr.  Hastings  to  the  Court 
of  Directors.  Look  to  it.  It  does  not  belong  to  me 
to  defend  you.  He  probably  foresaw  that  the  Maratta 
War  would  be  held  in  Horror  and  Execration  in 
England,  as  it  is  universally.  His  avowed  object 
therefore  is  to  transfer  the  whole  Merit  of  the 
Measure,  if  he  can,  from  himself  to  the  Presidency 
of  Bombay  ;  but  this  I  believe  he  will  find  a  difficult 
Task — We  have  yet  heard  nothing  of  any  Pacification 
with  the  Marattas.  In  my  Opinion  he  did  not  take 
the  right  way  to  accomplish  it  and  so  I  told  him. 
A  great  Government  should  have  measured  its  step 
with  more  deliberation  and  dignity  than  we  did.  It 
is  not  less  imprudent  to  retreat,  than  to  advance 
with  Precipitation.  We  renounce  every  Maxim  and 
Principle  of  Experience,  Policy  and  Common  Sense, 
and  yet  we  expect  to  succeed.  Mr.  Hastings'  projects 
always  gave  me  the  idea  of  a  Lottery,  with  an  Infinity 
of  Blanks  to  one  possible  Prize,  which  he  constantly 
depended  on  winning,  and  was  constantly  disappointed. 
I  hope  your  Sister  will  have  told  you  that  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  meeting  her  more  than  once  at  Sunbury.  If 
anything  be  left  us  in  India,  I  pray  you  to  preserve  it, 
everything  in  the  West  is  going  headlong  to  the  Devil. 

"  I  am  dear  Sir  yours  &c., 

"  P.  FRANCIS. 


1 782]  ZTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  349 

"  We  have  lately  heard  that  in  the  latest  Opinion 
of  the  Governor  General  and  Council  [that  is  of  Mr. 
Hastings]  nothing  could  be  so  fortunate  as  the  Marattas 
not  accepting  the  Terms  which  he  solicited  them  most 
humbly  to  accept.  He  must  be  a  capital  Statesman, 
whose  Merit  consists  wholly  in  the  failure  of  his 
Designs,  and  who  never  is  unfortunate  because  they 
never  succeed." 

Mr.  Francis  was  much  occupied  with  Indian  affairs, 
as  we  see  by  his  correspondence  at  this  time.  Mr. 
Hastings  did  not  leave  India  until  the  year  1785, 
but  Committees  of  Enquiry  into  his  conduct  as 
Governor  there  were  already  formed,  and  Mr.  Francis, 
from  having  been  six  years  on  the  Council  at  Calcutta 
under  Mr.  Hastings'  Presidency,  was  in  a  position 
to  supply  many  particulars. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EDWARD  WHELER  AT  CALCUTTA. 

"  LONDON, 

"  i%th  January,  1782. 
"  MY    DEAR   SlR, 

" .  .  .  Other  Expresses  from  Mr.  Hastings,  I 
find,  have  been  received  at  the  India  House,  since 
Major  Scott's  l  Arrival,  with  Accounts  of  a  Victory 
over  Maddajee  Sindia,  of  which  you  and  I  thoroughly 
know  the  Value  and  the  Price.  .  .  . 

"  It  will  give  you  pleasure  to  hear  that  Mr.  Thomas 
Pitt,  to  whom  for  many  Years  I  have  had  the  warmest 
Attachment,  has  lately  spoken  of  you  to  me  with 
Expressions  of  the  greatest  Regard  and  Esteem. 

1  Major  Scott,  an  agent  of  Hastings. 


35° 


ZTbe  frauds  betters  [1782 


Since  the  death  of  his  uncle,  I  doubt  whether  England 
can  boast  of  so  great  a  man  as  Mr.  Pitt.  I  am  sure 
there  are  few  so  virtuous.  .  .  . 

"  I  am  &c., 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 
PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EDWARD  HAY  IN  INDIA. 

"  LONDON, 

"Mv  DEAR  HAY,  ••*«*/«*.,  .782. 

"  I  have  written  to  you  with  infinite  Vigour 
and  Perseverance,  having  a  lively  Faith  that  you 
will  do  as  much  in  Return.  Observe  that  it  is  not 
in  your  Power  to  write  too  much,  nor  to  take  too 
much  care  of  my  Affairs.  I  shall  not  be  easy  in  my 
mind,  that  is  in  my  Fortune  (as  the  Book  says)  until 
you  have  remitted  the  whole  of  my  Property  that  I 
left  behind  me.  You  must  apply  for  my  House  Rent 
at  1,000  Arcot  Rupees  a  month  from  March  to 
November  1781,  both  inclusive.  They  have  allowed 
it  to  Harwell  and  the  Precedent  is  not  a  very  bad 
one  for  Mr.  Wheler.  Take  care  that  I  am  paid  by 
a  good  Draft  on  London,  for  any  Claret  that  may 
have  been  sent  me  after  my  Departure.  Since  I  left 
off  getting  Money  I  think  of  Nothing  else.  I  cannot 
eat  in  this  Wicked  Country  under  ,£2,500  a  year  ;  and 
even  with  that  I  can  feed  nobody  but  myself.  Three 
entertainments  in  a  Winter  would  send  me  to  the 
King's  Bench.  .  .  .  All  the  female  part  of  your  Family 
are  very  much  my  friends  and  humble  Servants,  your 
playfellow  and  namesake  thrives  charmingly,  and  in 
time  shall  be  your  Pupil.  .  .  . 

"  Yours  Ever, 

"  P.  FRANCIS. 


1782]  Ube  jfrancte  betters  35 i 

"  Return  the  inclosed  to  Mr.  Montague  with  my 
compliments.  As  thy  soul  liveth,  take  care  of  my 
money." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MR.  LIVIUS  IN  INDIA. 

"  LONDON, 
"  i^th  January,  1782. 

"  DEAR  LIVIUS, 

"  I  have  the  finest  disposition  in  the  World 
to  write  you  a  Voluminous  Letter  ;  not  that  I  have 
received  a  single  Line  from  you,  though  you  might 
have  contrived  to  write  by  Major  Scott  and  others. 
If  you  have  literally  married  the  Wrangham,  or  if 
Mackenzie  should  have  married  her  or  Collings  or 
Archdekin,  I  must  beg  Leave  to  decline  your  Society 
in  future,  at  least  until  the  death  of  her  Father  and 
Mother,  whom  Heaven  Confound.  I  spent  5  Months 
with  them  very  agreeably  in  the  Middle  of  the 
Atlantic,  and  most  devoutly  pray  that  I  may  never 
see  the  Face  of  either  of  them  again.  You  need  not 
mention  this  Affair  to  the  Daughter,  nor  even  to 
Mrs.  Stevenson.  I  should  be  sorry  to  wound  their 
delicate  Sensations,  or  any  of  the  refined  sentiments 
they  derive  from  St.  Helena.  If  ever  you  visit  that 
Island  keep  your  Hands  on  your  Pocket.  .  .  . 

"If  you  will  have  the  generosity  to  send  me 
Cargoes  of  Mr.  Blaquier's  best  Muslin  Handkerchiefs, 
you  will  oblige  me  much,  and  enable  me  to  oblige 
others.  I  gave  Lady  North  a  dozen,  some  to  Mrs. 
Ellis  and  so  on.  They  are  received  with  many 
Demonstrations  of  Gratitude,  and- do,  both  him]  and 
me  infinite  Credit.  Pray  tell  him  so  with  my 
particular  Compliments,  and  best  wishes  ;  I  went  a 


352  Ube  jfrancis  OLetters  [1782 

few  days  ago  to  your  Brother,  as  I  trust  he  will  tell 
you,  on  purpose  to  rouse  and  animate  him  to  write 
to  you  Copiously.  Having  but  one  Pair  of  hands  to 
feed  so  many  Vultures,  I  must  leave  it  to  Mr.  Wheler 

to  tell  you  all  the  news.  .  .  . 

"  Yours  ever, 

"P.  FRANCIS." 

From  Oakley  Park,  the  residence  of  Lady    Clive, 
Philip  Francis  writes  to  Mrs.  Francis  : — 

"  Thursday  \  past  two 
«'  20th  June,  1782. 

"  MY  DEAREST  BETSY, 

"  I  arrived  here  about  an  hour  ago,  after  a 
very  pleasant  Ride,  and  with  better  spirits  than  I 
set  out  with.  This  is  a  most  magnificent  house  and 
beautiful  Grounds.  I  never  saw  anything  more  to  my 
Mind.  Lady  Clive  is  just  as  I  expected ;  friendly, 
benevolent,  and  very  glad  to  see  me.  She  and  Miss 
Charlotte  have  just  done  shewing  me  the  House. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robinson  are  here,  and  I  think  I  shall 
pass  a  day  or  two  very  pleasantly.  In  short,  I  see 
things  thro'  a  better  Medium,  than  I  did  last  night, 
and  thought  you  would  like  to  hear  it.  I  intend  to 
be  very  gay  and  to  combat  all  those  dismal  fancies. 
I  see  plainly  that  I  have  wanted  Resolution,  and  that 
the  more  I  yield  to  low  Spirits,  the  worse  they  are. 
So  I  am  determined  to  be  merry  and  to  make  you  all 
as  merry  as  myself.  The  Girls  may  depend  on  what 
I  say.  It  is  most  likely  that  I  shall  dine  with  Mrs. 
Chandler  on  Sunday.  My  Love  to  my  Daughters. 
"  Yours  most  affectionately, 

"  P.  FRANCIS. 


1782]  TTbe  jfrancte  Xetters  353 

"  Lady  Clive  was  just  going  to  write  to  me  when 
I  came  in." 

WHILST  ON  A  TOUR  IN  BELGIUM,  PHILIP  FRANCIS 
TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

«  SPA, 
"August  iqth,  1783. 

"  MY  DEAREST  BETSY, 

"  I  take  this  to  be  Tuesday,  for  Heaven 
knows  I  have  completely  lost  my  chronology.  On 
Friday  morning  I  set  out  for  Maestricht,  and  thence 
to  Brussels.  So  that,  barring  accidents,  and  allowing 
five  or  six  days  for  loitering  on  the  way,  you  may 
expect  to  see  me  about  the  yth  of  next  month. 
•  •  ....  .  > 

"  The  benefit  I  have  received  from  this  residence 
in  point  of  health,  spirits,  and  fat,  is  very  distinguished 
indeed,  and  forms  the  admiration  of  Spa ! 

"  Tell  the  dear  girls,  my  younger  sisters,  that  I 
never  can,  will,  may,  might,  would,  could  or  should 
forget  them,  and  that  I  am  theirs  in  all  times  and 
tenses,  moods  and  conjugations.  And  so,  ma 
charmante  famille,  portez-vous  bien,  amusez-vous  bien, 
et  souvenez-vous  toujours  que  vous  avez  id  votre 
tres-cher  petit  papa,  qui  prend  les  eaux,  et  qui  ne  se 
meurt  pas  de  tristesse. 

"Yours,  yours,  yours,  yours, 

"  P.  F." 

Francis  obtained  a  seat  in  the  House  of 
Commons  at  the  General  Election  of  April,  1784. 
He  sat  for  Yarmouth,  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  and  was  a 
member  of  the  Opposition  under  Fox. 


354  tlfoe  ffrancfs  ^Letters  [1784 

Mr.  Francis's  first  speech  in  Parliament  was 
delivered  on  July  2nd,  1784,  the  subject  being  the 
financial  affairs  of  the  East  India  Company. 

During  the  vacation  of  that  year  he  writes  to  his 
wife  : — 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"PARIS, 

"  7th  Septr.,  1784. 

"  MY  DEAREST  BETSY, 

"If  you  pass  your  time  half  as  well  as  I  do 
you  have  no  reason  to  complain.  The  Weather  is 
particularly  fortunate,  and  at  Paris  that  is  half  the 
battle.  I  wrote  to  you  from  Calais  and  last  Friday 
again.  I  know  not  what  to  add  but  that  I  enjoy  a 
brilliant  State  of  health,  and  that  a  day  at  Paris  seems 
to  consist  of  no  more  than  twelve  hours.  Judge  then 
whether  it  be  possible  for  me  to  send  you  a  Homily  in 
a  Letter.  Madame  de  St.  Albin,  the  prettiest  Woman 
in  England  when  she  arrives  there,  serves  me  for  a 
Messenger.  Comment !  une  lettre  a  votre  femme  / 
oh  voila  du  nouveau,  laissez  moi  la  porter  je  vous  prie, 
cest  pour  la  premiere  fois  de  ma  vie,  mon  cher,  vous 
etes  unique^  il  riy  a  point  de  maris  comme  vous.  So, 
she  shall  have  my  letter  and  by  this  time,  all  France 
knows  what  a  marvellous  husband  you  have  got.  Oh 
lord  !  I  wish  I  could  carry  the  Infantry  to-night  to  a 
new  play  here,  called,  Les  noces  de  Figaro.  Never 
saw  the  like  in  all  my  life ! 

"  Ducarel  has  found  his  Uncle  and  Aunt,  or  rather 
they  have  found  him.  He  was  forced  to  get  on  a 
chair  to  put  his  Arms  round  his  Uncle's  neck  ;  and  he 
has  worn  my  blue  box  to  rags  to  keep  his  feet  from 


1784]  tTbe  ffrancis  ^Letters  355 

dangling  in  the  Chaise.     And  so  ma  chere  moitie1  je 

vous  embrasse.     Adieu. 

"P.  F." 


PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EDWARD  WHELER  IN  INDIA. 

"LONDON, 
"January  iith,  1785. 

"  DEAR  SIR, 

<(  Mr.  Hastings  seems  to  have  no  thoughts 
of  resigning  ;  for  though  in  February  last  when  he  set 
out  for  Lucknow,  he  wrote  to  the  directors  in  a  very 
desponding  style  he  seems  to  have  recovered  his 
spirits  when  he  arrived  there,  and  as  usual  promises 
to  do  wonders  if  he  be  continued  in  the  Govern- 
ment. .  .  . 

"If  you  could  prevail  on  Hastings  to  resign  you 
might  hold  the  government  a  year  or  two  before  any 
appointment  from  hence  could  supersede  you. 

"  I  should  look  on  that  event  as  the  salvation  of 
India,  for  I  know  you  will  do  right. 

"  Poor  Tilghman  is  to  deliver  you  this  letter.  It 
will  be  a  great  happiness  to  him  to  see  you  once  more, 
and  he  will  communicate  to  you  everything  that  I 
know  or  think  about  the  State  of  affairs.  I  pray  you 
my  friend  to  serve  him  if  you  can.  I  have  no  other 
object  now  in  life  very  deeply  at  heart. 

"  He  will  tell  you  himself  how  cruelly  and  unjustly 
the  directors  have  treated  him.  But  I  hope  it  will 
make  no  great  difference  for  the  present,  and  that 
things  will  come  about  again.  .  .  . 

"  Indian  affairs  cannot  stand  as  they  are — and  while 
they  are  canvassed  at  all,  it  is  impossible  for  me  to 
avoid  taking  a  principal  share  in  them. 


356  TTbe  ffrancte  Xetters  [1785 

"  I  have  been  and  always  shall  be  your  friend  and 
advocate  to  the  utmost  of  my  ability.  .  .  . 

"  Our  funds  are  extremely  low,  and  a  war  on  the 
continent  is  thought  to  be  unavoidable.  I  hope  you 
will  be  able  to  keep  peace  in  India.  With  my  best 
wishes  to  Mrs.  Wheler,  I  am  ever  faithfully  and 
affectionately  yours, 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 


The  last  letter  never  reached  Mr.  Wheler,  who  had 
died  in  India  before  it  was  written.  Francis  alludes 
to  this  in  the  following  letter,  addressed  to  R. 
Tilghman  : — 

"April  14/7*,  1785. 

"  DEAR  TILGHMAN, 

"  I  am  just  come  home  from  dinner  at  my 
neighbour  Mr.  Bevan's  where  I  have  heard  that  the 
Button's  pacquet  goes  to  Portsmouth  this  night,  so  I 
take  the  chance  of  a  letter  by  the  post  to  tell  you  that 
we  have  just  heard  of  Mr.  Wheler's  death  by  a  letter 
overland  from  Mr.  Hastings.  I  lament  his  loss  for 
his  own  sake  and  I  feel  it  very  sensibly  for  yours. 
However  keep  up  your  spirits.  You  know  there  are 
people  here  who  will  stand  by  you  in  all  extremities. 
If  ever  there  be  a  change,  all  the  interest  I  may  gain 
by  it  shall  be  exerted  for  you.  If  you  keep  your 
health  I  have  no  doubt  of  your  success.  If  not  come 
away  directly.  Better  live  any  where  than  die  in 
Bengal.  .  .  . 

"  Yours  always, 

"  P.  F." 


1785]  ttfoe  ffrancfs  letters  357 

R.  Tilghman  died  in  India  in  the  year  1787. 

The  following  letter  is  addressed  to  Mr.  George 
Thicknesse,  who  had  been  headmaster  at  St.  Paul's 
School  when  Francis  was  a  scholar  there.  Mr.  Thick- 
nesse bore  the  character  of  a  singularly  just  and 
conscientious  tutor,  greatly  beloved  by  his  pupils. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MR.  THICKNESSE. 

"  UPPER  HARLEY  STREET, 

"yd  March,  1785. 
"  MY    DEAR    SlR, 

"In  my  last  Letter  I  think  I  mentioned  to 
You  that  there  was  a  Business  of  some  Moment  to 
me,  on  which  I  wished  to  consult  you.  I  have  an 
only  Son,  whom  I  propose  to  send  to  the  University 
in  the  Course  of  the  ensuing  Autumn.  He  will  then 
be  seventeen,  and  I  hope  qualified,  as  well  at  least  as 
Boys  commonly  are,  to  proceed  to  College  and  to  get 
Improvement  there.  He  has  been  bred  at  Harrow 
under  Dr.  Heath  ;  and,  tho'  I  think  that,  with  his 
Capacity  more  might  have  been  done,  I  cannot  com- 
plain that  his  education  has  been  neglected.  The 
point  on  which  I  would  request  your  Advice,  is  to 
which  of  the  Universities  and  to  what  College  it  will 
be  most  advisable  to  send  him.  I  wish,  if  it  were 
possible,  to  give  him  the  best  chance  of  Learning, 
without  Exposing  his  Morals,  as  little  as  may  be 
at  least,  to  Corruption,  Now,  dear  Sir,  can  you 
advise  me  ?  I  fear  indeed  that  you  have  quitted  all 
Connection  with  Colleges  so  long,  that  you  may  not 
know  in  what  state  they  actually  are  ;  but  still  I  have 
hopes  that  if  you  cannot  directly  advise  me  yourself, 
you  can  put  me  in  a  way  to  obtain  Information. 
VOL.  ii.  2 


358  Ube  jfrancts  Xettets  [1785 

"  Think  of  this  matter  when  you  have  positively 
nothing  else  to  think  of,  and  favour  me  with  your 
opinion  about  it,  when  you  have  literally  nothing  else 
to  do.  I  was  going  to  make  an  apology  for  giving  so 
much  trouble,  but  surely  it  would  be  superfluous.  It 
is  in  the  regular  order  of  things,  and  it  naturally  belongs 
to  the  relation,  in  which  we  have  stood  to  each  other, 
that  I  should  ask  advice  and  that  you  should  give  it. 
I  am  ever,  with  the  sincerest  affection  and  respect, 
"  Dear  Sir, 

"  Your  most  obliged  and 

"  faithful  Servant, 

"P.  FRANCIS." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  A  FRIEND. 

"15  March,  1785. 

"  DEAR  SIR, 

"  I  have  been  waiting  with  impatience  for 
this  night's  Post  to  remove  a  Mistake  into  which  I 
see  you  have  fallen.  You  imagine  that  Mr.  Dundas l 
is  the  Author  of  the  ninth  Report  of  the  Select 
Committee,  and  you  justly  give  him  Credit  for  infinite 
Industry  and  superior  Ability.  I  do  assure  you  he  is 
no  more  capable  of  such  a  Work,  than  I  am  of  moving 
Mount  Caucasus.  The  Author  is  Edmund  Burke, 
and  the  Performance  is  worthy  of  the  most  powerful 
Talents  and  the  most  enlightened  Judgment,  that  I 
do  believe  exist  in  this  Kingdom,  or  perhaps  in  this 
World.  The  Gleam  of  Comfort  is  written  by  a  young 

1  Henry  Dundas,  Lord  Advocate  of  Scotland  and  President  of 
one  of  the  Committees  of  the  House  of  Commons  sitting  on  Indian 
affairs  ;  Edmund  Burke  was  President  of  the  other. 


1785]  ftbe  ffrancis  Xetters  359 

man  of  the  Name  of  O'Brien,  who  has  distinguished 
himself  on  other  occasions,  as  a  political  writer. 

"  I  pray  you  never  to  think  of  answering  my  letters 
but  when  it  is  perfectly  easy  and  convenient  to  you. 

"  Many  Petitions  are  now  brought  up  against  the 
Irish  Plan  of  Settlement,  praying  that  the  Petitioners 
may  be  heard  by  their  Council ; — So  I  fancy  that 
Scheme  will  not  be  concluded  quite  so  soon  as  the 
Minister  intended. 

"  I  am  ever  most  faithfully  yours, 

"  P.  F." 

EDMUND  BURKE  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"  BEACONSFIELD, 
"November  *ydt  1785. 

"  MY  DEAR  SIR, 

"  I  shall  be  with  you  on  Saturday  next,  if 
some  accident  that  I  don't  foresee  should  not  prevent 
me.  I  have  lately  passed  a  very  pleasant  day  with 
Mr.  Fox  here.  I  shall  be  happy  in  having  the  same 
satisfaction  renewed,  with  the  improvement  it  must 
receive  at  Sheen. 

"  I  do  not  well  see  how  the  East  can  be  kept  out 
of  our  conversation  ;  but  if  I  were  to  choose,  it  should 
make  mere  matter  of  conversation  and  not  the  subject 
of  a  business  consultation.  There  can  be  no  difference 
between  us  on  the  general  principles  of  Indian 
politics.  On  the  same  abstract  view  of  things  the 
plan  of  conduct  you  propose  must  meet  the  appro- 
bation of  almost  everybody.  Therefore,  any  further 
discussion  of  the  subject  as  an  affair  of  parliamentary 
management  is  unnecessary.  When  you  or  he  bring 
any  Indian  question  before  the  House,  the  single  vote 


36o  ftbe  jfrancfs  Xetters  [1785 

to  which  I  am  reduced  will  be  given  to  justice  in  the 
first  place,  in  the  next  to  you  and  to  Mr.  Fox.  If  I 
were  to  enter  into  any  further  detail,  besides  the 
indecorum  of  making  a  man's  personal  feelings  a  topic 
in  the  consideration  of  a  great  public  concern,  I  should 
fall  into  the  more  disgusting  impropriety  of  seizing  you 
upon  points  on  which  I  have  more  than  once  troubled 
you  already.  If  a  man  is  disabled  from  rendering  any 
essential  service  to  his  principles  or  to  his  party,  he 
ought  at  least  to  contrive  to  make  his  conversation  as 
little  disagreeable  as  he  can  to  the  society  which  his 
friends  may  still  be  indulgent  enough  to  hold  with  him. 
Since  I  came  from  Scotland  (or  rather  for  some 
time  after  my  return)  I  have  endeavoured  to  banish 
India  from  my  thoughts.  I  have  not  opened  a  drawer 
on  that  subject  nor  looked  over  a  paper,  except  two 
or  three  memorials  which  were  sent  to  me,  and  which, 
to  say  the  truth,  are  curious  enough.  I  will  take  them 
with  me  when  I  go  to  you.  Adieu.  Believe  me, 
with  the  most  sincere  affection,  my  dear  Francis, 

"  Most  truly  yours,  &c., 

"  EDM.   BURKE." 

Mr.  Francis  had  taken  a  house  at  East  Sheen,  to 
which  place  his  family  frequently  went  from  London. 
Their  town  house  was  in  Harley  Street  until  the  year 
1791,  when  they  removed  to  St.  James's  Square. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  JOHN  BRISTOW  IN  INDIA. 

"  LONDON, 
"April  15^,  1786. 

"  DEAR  BRISTOW, 

"  I  do  assure  you,  that  I  have  written  to  you 
by  every  opportunity  in  my  power,  for  the  last  two 


1786]  ZTbe  francfs  Xetters  361 

years,  and  particularly  I  am  sure  I  wrote  by  the  Fox 
Pacquet,  but  having  nobody  to  help  me,  it  was  im- 
possible to  keep  copies  of  my  letters.  I  am  now  to 
acknowledge  yours  of  October  25th,  1785,  but  whether 
I  answer  it  fully  or  not  with  my  own  hand,  you  must 
take  the  will  for  the  deed.  I  am  nearly  overwhelmed 
with  the  toil  that  has  fallen  unavoidably  to  my  lot  in 
preparing  and  conducting  the  impeachment.  The 
slavery  I  have  gone  through  in  that  business,  added 
to  my  attendance  in  Parliament  and  my  efforts  to 
overset  the  India  Bill  of  1784,  has  been  too  much  for 
me  ;  and,  what  is  worst  of  all,  the  pain  of  the  wound  I 
received  in  August,  1 780,  has  lately  returned  with  great 
violence,  so  that  I  can  hardly  sit  straight  in  a  chair  or 
sleep  in  my  bed.  I  shall  make  a  shift  to  tell  you,  how- 
ever, what  may  be  most  material,  and  leave  the  rest  to 
your  nephew,  whom  I  have  instructed  as  well  as  I  could. 
"  I  think  you  have  acted  right  not  to  quit  the  ground, 
while  any  accusations  against  you  were  depending. 
The  papers  which  you  have  already  recorded  or 
transmitted  to  me  are  very  material,  but  I  wish  you 
had  not  withheld  any  of  your  proofs  ;  now  as,  in  my 
private  judgment,  the  business  of  the  impeachment 
will  not  be  concluded  in  the  present  session,  do  not 
act  on  a  presumption  that  anything  you  have  still  to 
transmit  will  arrive  too  late,  but  send  everything  you 
have  by  every  opportunity.  I  would  give  a  finger  to 
have  you  here  at  present,  especially  as  I  do  not  think 
you  can  stay  long  in  that  country.  In  my  judgment, 
it  will  soon  be  too  hot  to  hold  any  of  you  ;  the  French 
and  Dutch  are  certainly  forming  plans  and  collecting 
forces  in  India  which  threaten  us  with  ruin." 


362  Hfoe  jfrancfs  ^Letters  [1786 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MACKENZIE  IN  INDIA. 

"  LONDON, 
41  i$th  April,  1786. 

"  MY  DEAR  MACKENZIE, 

"  I  work  myself  to  Death  and  no  Body 
is  satisfied.  You,  among  the  rest,  complain  that  I 
do  not  write  to  you.  For  God's  Sake,  make  some 
Allowance  for  my  Situation.  I  am  overwhelmed  with 
Toil  of  every  kind ;  and  yet  I  have  written  to  you 
frequently.  No  sooner  did  I  get  your  Letter  of 
25th  October,  but  I  went  to  seek  Mr.  Cheap  at 
his  House ; — then  after  Him  to  the  India  house — 
then  to  Bedford  Square  to  Lord  Loughborough. 
After  much  hunting,  I  have  seen  &  conversed  with 
them  both.  Mr.  Cheap  will  tell  you  the  Substance 
of  our  Conversation ;  for  I  assure  you  I  am  just 
dead  with  Fatigue.  My  opinion  is,  that,  from  the 
Nature  of  the  Thing,  the  Committee  of  Revenue 
cannot  execute  the  Office  of  Custom  Master ;  yet  I 
hope  and  trust  you  have  accepted  even  a  deliberative 
Seat  at  that  Board,  because  it  gives  you  a  Hold  upon 
your  proper  Office,  or  a  certain  succession  to  another. 
Depend  upon  it,  this  Spirit  of  Reform  is  too  furious 
to  last  long.  It  is  true,  that  I  remonstrated  against 
the  exorbitant  Salaries  and  Establishments  created 
by  Mr.  Hastings.  But  I  never  recommended  the 
violent  &  absurd  Reductions,  which  I  hear  have  been 
ordered.  In  Truth,  I  never  was  consulted.  Ignorant 
people  know  of  no  remedy  for  extreme  Abuse,  but 
extreme  Violence.  The  Consequence  always  is,  that 
the  Violence  soon  ceases  to  act,  &  the  Abuse  returns 
ten  Times  worse  than  ever.  When  you  reduce  Men 


1 786]  zrbe  jfrancis  %etter0  363 

to  starve,  you  order  them  to  plunder  ;  and  then  the 
Plunder  will  extend  to  the  utmost  Limits  of  every 
Man's  Power.  The  People  here  are  not  in  Earnest, 
except  to  gain  a  momentary  Credit  by  the  Name  of 
a  rigid  Reform.  John  Shore  is  to  succeed  Mr.  Stables 
in  Council.  Lord  Macartney,  Sir  George  Staunton, 
General  Sloper  &  General  Bailing  have  all  got 
Pensions  from  the  Directors,  amounting  together  to 
,£4,500  a  Year.  So  much  Bounty  may  be  a  Proof 
of  Wealth,  but  it  indicates  no  great  diversity  in  the 
present  Spirit  of  Reformation.  Mr.  Cheap  will  do 
every  Thing  for  you,  that  can  be  done  in  the  Direc- 
tion;  but  you  must  not  be  too  exacting  with  your 
Friends. — whatever  we  do  must  be  accomplished  by 
Management,  not  Power.  For  greater  Security,  I 
send  the  enclosed  Letter  for  Bristow  under  your  Cover. 
Pray  take  special  Care  that  it  be  delivered  to  Him 
immediately.  Your  other  Friends  must  give  you  an 
Account  of  the  Impeachment,  for  I  am  fairly  worn  out. 
We  have  got  it  into  a  State  in  which  nothing,  but  main 
Power,  can  stop  it's  going  to  the  Lords.  Two  Months 
ago,  no  Man  living  would  have  believed  it  possible 
it  could  ever  get  so  far.  Wonders  have  already  been 
done  by  the  Perseverance  of  two  Individuals,  against 
the  whole  Kingdom  &  against  every  Power  &  In- 
fluence in  it.  Burke  and  I  regard  no  difficulties,  but 
go  on.  The  Event  is  in  the  Hand  of  God.  It  is 
His  own  Cause.  ^>The  Part,  which  Sir  James  Erskine 
has  taken  with  us,  has  brought  Him  and  me  together, 
&  I  am  much  mistaken  if  we  are  not  Friends  for 
Life.  There  is  an  Ability,  a  good  Temper,  &  an 
Industry  in  this  young  Man  that  already  performs 


364  Ube  jfrancfs  Xetters  [1786 

a  great  Deal,  &  promises  every  Thing  in  future.  My 
constant  Effort  shall  be  to  make  Him  work.  My 
own  Son  is  studying  hard  at  St.  John's  Cambridge. 
He  has  already  distinguished  Himself,  &  I  hope 
will  do  well.  Our  most  unfortunate  Friend  Tilghman, 
I  find,  is  coming  Home,  dying  &  poor ;  &  this  is 
the  Way  that  Virtue  is  rewarded.  Mr.  Hastings,  I 
am  well  informed,  is  sunk  into  the  lowest  State  of 
misery  and  Dejection.  Major  Scott,  with  infinite 
Effort,  maintains  a  continued  ghastly  Smile  upon  his 
Face  ;  but  it  requires  no  great  skill  in  Phisiognomy 
to  perceive  what  Feelings  are  working  within  Side 
of  Him.  A  Mask  which  conceals  Nothing,  betrays 
every  Thing.  I  am  quite  jaded  with  writing,  so 
must  bid  you  Farewell.  Fear  Nothing.  The  Tide 
must  turn. 

"  Yours  ever, 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 

In  the  year  1786  Mr.  Francis's  eldest  daughter, 
Sally,  of  whose  frequent  illnesses  we  read  in  the 
mother's  Journal,  fell  seriously  out  of  health,  and 
was  ordered  to  try  the  climate  of  Nice  for  a  winter. 
Her  father  himself  took  her  there.  He  had  pre- 
viously written  to  Mr.  Burke,  asking  advice  concerning 
the  travel  and  for  introductions  for  the  invalid. 

EDMUND  BURKE  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"August  6th,  1786. 

"  You  are  not  to  doubt  that  Mrs.  Burke  and  my- 
self always  have  thought  and  always  shall  think  you 
a  very  sensible  man  whenever  you  agree  with  our 


1786] 


ffrancte  betters 


365 


sense,  and  shall  think  that  you  take  every  step  proper 
for  an  affectionate  father  whether  it  be  taken  according 
to  our  own  opinion  or  not.  I  have  great  hopes  from 
this  Nicene  journey,  and  I  hope  God  will  bless  that 
undertaking :  I  assure  you  we  wish  it  here  most 
cordially.  I  scarce  know  anybody  in  France.  Dick 
is  better  acquainted  there;  but  I  doubt  whether  his 
letters  will  arrive  in  time  to  be  of  any  service.  The 
only  persons  I  know  are  the  Bishop  of  Auxerre  and 
his  family  and  the  Parisots  of  Auxerre.  Your  way 
lies  through  that  town,  and  as  you  may  possibly  find 
it  necessary  to  rest  a  day  or  two  on  your  journey, 
you  may  find  their  attentions  useful.  Not  that,  in 
general,  I  have  found  attentions  to  ailing  people  of 
any  great  use,  unless  they  are  to  make  a  permanent 
abode  in  a  place ;  because  attention  requires  some 
reciprocal  attention,  and  there  is  always  some  matter 
of  restraint  that,  above  all  things,  oppresses  in  certain 
situations  of  the  mind  and  body.  Proper  directions 
and  recommendations  at  Nice  will  be  more  important ; 
but  there  I  can  be  of  no  service  at  all,  for  I  know 
no  creature  there.  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  who  is  so 
strong  an  instance  of  the  benefit  of  that  place,  can, 
I  believe,  give  the  best  directions  both  as  to  the 
route  and  to  the  rules  to  be  observed,  and  can  recom- 
mend (as  well  as  any  one  can  recommend)  to  a  place 
where  hardly  any  can  be  considered  as  residents. 
I  will  send  you  letters  to  the  bishop  and  Madame 
Parisot,  as  soon  as  I  can  get  Miss  Hickey  to  write 
them  for  me  to  be  transcribed,  for  you  will  easily 
conceive  that  I  do  not  wish  to  see  my  French  in 
black  and  white.  By  the  way,  I  have  just  recollected 


366  Ube  jfrancfs  Xetters  [1786 

that  I  know  Abbe*  Dillon  and  his  brother.  The  house 
of  the  Dillons  are  very  civil  to  the  English,  who  are 
well  received  there.  The  archbishop  may  not  be 
at  Paris  or  the  Comte,  but  you  will  take  your  chance. 
The  Abbe  as  well  as  his  brother  the  Chevalier  under- 
stand English,  the  latter  very  well  ;  so  I  can  risk 
writing  to  them  without  the  aid  of  my  French  secretary. 
"  Your  ladies  have  been  so  excessive  in  rating 
Mrs.  Burke  and  my  little  attentions  to  them,  that 
we  can  say  nothing  about  them  that  will  not  look 
like  a  sort  of  payment  in  kind.  But  indeed  we  are 
infinitely  flattered  in  their  liking  of  us,  and  we  think 
so  well  of  them  (whatever  we  may  do  of  ourselves) 
as  to  be  persuaded  that  in  their  expressions  of  regard 
there  is  something  more  than  politeness.  As  to 
Philip,  he  fully  answers  the  opinion  I  had  formed 
of  him.  He  is  really  a  fine,  lively,  intelligent,  and 
natural  lad.  I  ndeed  you  are  happy  in  your  family.  God 
bless  you,  and  give  all  success  to  your  voyage,  and 
may  the  young  lady  whom  you  accompany  find  her 
excellent  mother  and  sisters  on  her  return  in  health  to 
enjoy  all  the  health  she  will  bring  with  her,  and  that  I 
hope  will  be  such  to  do  credit  to  the  climate  of  Nice. 

"  Ever  most  truly  yours, 
"EDM.  BURKE." 

On    his   return  journey    Mr.    Francis   writes   from 

Paris  : — 

"  PARIS, 
"Scptr.,  1786. 

"  MY  DEAREST  BETSY, 

"  I  returned  hither  on  Monday  last  after 
28  days  of  hard  labour,  much  Plague,  and  many 
difficulties.  Sally  is  as  well  established  at  Nice  as 


1786]  Ube  jfrancts  betters  367 

it  was  in  my  power  to  contrive  ;  but  I  assure  you  it 
was  no  easy  matter.  She  did  not  seem  to  feel  or 
regard  the  fatigue  of  the  journey  ;  tho'  it  was  enough 
to  have  worn  out  the  strongest  Constitution.  Except- 
ing a  few  hours  in  two  days  only,  the  heat  was  never 
troublesome.  I  need  not  enlarge  on  the  subject  of 
my  travels  as  I  hope  to  be  at  Sheen  in  a  fortnight.  I 
believe  I  have  now  had  enough  to  last  me  for  the 
remainder  of  my  Life.  My  love  to  the  Children.  If 
they  could  have  seen  what  we  have  suffered  ! 

"  Yours, 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 


EDMUND  BURKE  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"  BEACONSFIELD, 
"November  %th,  1786. 

"  I  did  not  receive  your  letter  until  this  morning, 
and  am  very  sorry  to  hear  of  the  cold,  by  whatever 
name  it  is  to  be  adjured,  or  conjured,  or  exorcised.  I 
proposed  to  be,  and  would  have  been  in  London  long 
before  this,  but  I  stay  here  to  compel  Richard  to  stay 
along  with  me.  He  has  no  decided  complaint,  but 
is  by  no  means  well,  though  he  has  a  mind  to  act 
as  if  he  was.  I  long  very  much  to  see  you,  and  if  I 
were  in  condition  to  plan  matters  according  to  my 
own  good  liking,  I  should  certainly  fall  in  with  your 
wishes  and  go  to  Sheen  to  bring  you  to  Beaconsfield. 
But  since  I  cannot  assure  myself  that  I  shall  be  able 
to  do  this,  why  cannot  you  bring  one  of  your  fair 
ladies  along  with  you,  if  Mrs.  Francis  is  absolutely 
immovable,  and  take  this  long  journey  hither  ?  It  is 
not  altogether  so  far  as  to  Nice,  the  roads  tolerable, 


368  Ubc  ffrancis  betters  [1786 

the  horses  and  postilions  not  such  as  to  make  you 
swear  a  great  deal,  the  inns  clean  and  decent,  the 
charges  reasonable,  the  provisions  eatable,  the  cookery 
not  poisonous,  the  climate  not  intolerably  severe,  and 
the  manners  and  customs  of  the  natives  of  the  several 
counties  through  which  you  pass  not  extremely  rude 
and  ferocious.  With  all  these  encouraging  circum- 
stances, I  hope  to  see  you  here.  If  not,  pray  tell 
me  so  as  soon  as  you  receive  this. 

«E.  B." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  GEORGE  SHEE. 

"  LONDON, 
"December  tfk,  1786. 

"  MY  DEAR  SHEE, 

"  I  take  the  opportunity  of  a  gentleman  who 
goes  to  Bengal  in  a  foreign  ship  to  acknowledge  the 
receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  i4th  of  March  last  in 
duplicate.  You  behave  yourself  much  better  than  I 
had  any  reason  to  expect,  for  as  you  are  a  violent 
gentleman,  and  are  apt  to  conclude  rapidly  from 
appearances,  you  might  naturally  suspect  that  I  was 
negligent  or  forgetful  of  you  ;  but  your  writing  so 
copiously,  with  that  impression  upon  your  mind,  is 
very  meritorious.  The  real  truth  is  that  I  neither 
have  the  same  dexterity  in  writing  nor  the  same 
opportunities  of  sending  letters  that  I  had  in  Bengal. 
I  was  then  in  high  exercise,  and  had  plenty  of  secre- 
taries to  copy  for  me.  I  knew  of  the  departure  of 
ships,  which  now  I  never  hear  of,  and.  had  the  times 
and  seasons  of  writing  at  my  command.  All  these 
circumstances  are  reversed  ;  but  beware  of  suspecting 
that  anything  else  about  me  is  altered.  I  fear  I  do 


1786]  ftbe  jfrancte  Xetters  369 

not  persevere  in  hating  some  people  so  long  as  I 
ought  to  do;  in  everything  but  my  enmities  I  am 
tolerably  obstinate.  You  draw  pictures  to  admiration. 
As  long  as  the  scenes  shift,  pray  let  your  pencil  be 
employed. 

"  By  this  time  you  have  been  witness  to  a  marvel- 
lous transition  from  small  wares  to  coronets,  to 
ignorance  with  dignity  from  ignorance  without  it.  It 
is  hard  that  integrity  should  have  nothing  to  support 
it.  Now  observe  you  are  never  to  show  this  letter 
to  anybody  but  Mrs.  Shee,  on  whose  friendship  and 
discretion  I  place  a  particular  dependence.  The 
prosecution  of  your  friend  Mr.  Hastings  will  be 
revived  with  a  renewal  of  vigour  as  soon  as  Parliament 
meets.  He  has  had  a  pleasant  summer  of  it.  An 
attempt  will  also  be  made  to  impeach  Sir  Elijah 
Impey,  in  whose  fate  I  know  you  are  interested.  Let 
the  event  to  their  persons  be  what  it  may,  the  charges 
will  gibbet  their  characters  to  all  eternity. 

"  From  various  passages  in  your  letters  a  stranger 
would  be  apt  to  imagine  that  I  had  the  whole  trust 
and  absolute  management  of  your  fortune  in  England, 
but  to  this  hour  I  have  never  seen  an  account  of  your 
remittances,  nor  am  I  able  to  tell  you  precisely  what 
your  uncle  has  done  with  them.  Ducarel  lives  a 
hundred  miles  off  in  perfect  obscurity,  and,  as  to  me, 
I  don't  guess  what  it  is  you  expect  me  to  transact. 
This  I  do  know,  that  your  affairs  are  in  the  hands  of 
as  honest  and  as  prudent  a  man  as  lives.  The  account 
he  gives  me  of  your  property  here  is  not  so  high  as 
you  state  ;  but  why  the  devil  don't  you  send  me  an 
exact  account  of  it  in  proper  form  ?  You  talk  very 


370  Ube  jfrancis  ^Letters  [1786 

loosely  about  ten  thousand  pounds.  When  you  have 
five  times  that  sum  realised  here,  I  give  you  leave  to 
come  to  England,  not  sooner.  You  are  a  mad  man 
if  you  think  of  it.  I,  for  example,  have  above  three 
thousand  pounds  a  year  to  spend,  and  I  live  with 
rigid  economy  ;  yet  it  is  the  utmost  I  can  do  not  to 
exceed  my  income. 

"  Another  thing.  Take  my  advice  once  in  your 
life  :  lay  aside  forty  thousand  rupees  for  a  seat  in 
Parliament.  In  this  country,  that  alone  makes  all  the 
difference  between  somebody  and  nobody. 

"  I  kiss  the  fair  hand  that  copies  your  letter,  and 
am  affectionately  and  faithfully  yours." 

EDMUND  BURKE  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"January  2nd,  1787. 

"  Fox  and  Windham  came  hither  one  day  (I  forget 
what  day)  last  week,  and  returned,  the  one  to  town, 
the  other  to  St.  Anne's  Hill,  the  next  morning.  I 
cannot  say  that  our  conversation  produced  much,  but 
I  think  they  feel,  both  of  them,  about  India  nearly  as 
I  could  wish,  and  as  we  do  ourselves.  I  always 
think  I  have  a  good  deal  to  say  to  you,  but  it 
evaporates  before  we  meet,  and  perhaps  it  is  not  so 
much  as  at  moments  I  fancy.  The  Duke  of  Portland 
tells  me  that  Sheridan  has  warmed  with  a  sort  of  love 
passion  to  our  Begums.  General  Smith  says,  what 
I  am  much  inclined  to  believe,  that  he  will  make  such 
a  figure  on  that  subject  as  has  not  been  hitherto  seen, 
and  for  part  of  this  figure  he  takes  some  credit  to 
himself  for  his  hints  and  instructions.  Would  it  not 


1787]  ZTbe  jfrancis  ^Letters  371 

be  clever  in  you  to  come  down  hither  on  the  receipt 
of  this,  and  bring  one  of  your  young  ladies  with  you, 
and  let  us  talk  a  little  on  the  business  of  India,  and 
other  business  ?  It  is  not  to  be  conceived  how  rusty 
I  am  on  all  sorts  of  business. 

"  Adieu.  Mrs.  Burke  most  cordially  salutes  Mrs. 
Francis  and  all  yours.  By  the  way  it  is  holiday  time 
and  why  should  you  not  bring  the  younger  Francis 
with  you  ?  " 

The  following  letter 1  from  Edmund  Burke  to  Mrs. 
Francis  was  written  on  the  occasion  of  Mr.  Francis's 
great  speech  in  the  House  of  Commons  (April  iQth, 
1787),  when  he  gave  the  history  of  his  contentions 
with  Mr.  Hastings  in  India.  In  that  speech  he 
claimed  that  his  hostility  to  the  man  was  wholly 
because  of  his  public  actions  and  had  no  root  in 
personal  feeling  or  concern  with  private  discordance. 

EDMUND  BURKE  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"GERRARD  ST., 
"April  2oth,  1787. 

"My  DEAR  MADAM, 

"  I  cannot,  with  an  honest  Appetite  or  clear 
Conscience,  sit  down  to  my  Breakfast,  unless  I  first 
give  you  an  account  which  will  make  your  family 
Breakfast  as  pleasant  to  you,  as  I  wish  all  your  family 
meetings  to  be.  Then,  I  have  the  Satisfaction  of 
telling  you,  that,  not  in  my  Judgment  only  but  in  that 
of  all  who  heard  him,  no  man  ever  acquitted  himself 
on  a  day  of  great  Expectation  to  the  full  of  the 

1  This  letter  has   been  published   in  Burke's   Correspondence, 
vol.  Hi.,  p.  56,  of  the  edition  of  1844. 


372  Ufoe  ffrancfs  Xetters  [1787 

Demand  upon  him,  so  well  as  Mr.  Francis  did 
yesterday.  He  was  clear,  precise,  forcible,  and 
eloquent  in  a  high  degree.  No  intricate  business  was 
ever  better  unravelled,  and  no  iniquity  ever  placed 
so  effectually  to  produce  its  natural  horrour  and 
disgust.  It  is  very  little  for  the  credit  of  those,  who 
are  Mr.  Francis's  Enemies,  but  it  is  infinitely  to  his, 
that  they  forced  him  to  give  an  History  of  his  whole 
publick  Life.  He  did  it  in  a  most  masterly  Manner, 
and  with  an  address  which  the  display  of  such  a  Life 
ought  very  little  to  want,  but  which  the  Prejudices  of 
those,  whose  lives  are  of  a  different  character  made 
necessary.  He  did  justice  to  his  own  Actions  ;  but  he 
did  justice  to  the  feelings  of  others  too  ;  and  I  assure 
you  Madam  that  the  Modesty  of  his  Defence  was  not 
the  smallest  part  of  its  Merit.  All,  who  heard  him, 
were  delighted,  except  those  whose  Mortification 
ought  to  give  pleasure  to  every  good  Mind.  He 
was  two  hours  and  a  half,  or  rather  more,  on  his  legs, 
and  he  never  lost  attention  for  a  moment.  Indeed  I 
believe  very  few  could  have  crowded  so  much  Matter 
into  so  small  a  Space.  Permit  me  most  sincerely  to 
congratulate  you  and  the  Ladies,  and  Mr.  Philip  of 
Cambridge,  if  he  is  yet  among  you ;  He  has  a  great 
example  before  him,  in  a  father  exerting  some  of  the 
first  Talents  that  ever  were  given  to  a  man,  in  the 
Cause  of  Mankind.  Again  and  Again  I  give  you 
joy,  and  I  am  with  most  unaffected  respect  and  affection 
my  dear  Madam, 

"  Your  most  faithful  and  Obedient 

"  Humble  Servant, 

"  EDMUND  BURKE. 


1787]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  373 

"  P.S.  I  don't  know  whether  I  write  very  intelligibly. 
I  made  a  sad  Debauch  last  night  in  some  very  good 
Company,  where  we  drank  the  Man  we  were  so  much 
obliged  to  in  a  bumper.  Mr.  F.  ought  to  lose  no 
Time  in  taking  the  Matter  of  his  Charge  to  be  drawn 
up  formally." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EDWARD  HAY  IN  INDIA. 

"  LONDON, 
"May  22nd,  1787. 

"  MY  DEAR  HAY, 

"  I  have  received,  by  the  Swallow,  your 
letters  of  the  1 5th  and  iQth  of  November  last,  with 
all  the  papers  and  letters  enclosed.  My  answer,  and 
even  my  thanks,  must  be  as  brief  as  I  can  make 
them.  In  the  first  place,  I  am  afflicted  at  hearing  of 
your  intention  of  sending  me  another  pipe  of  Madeira. 
I  have  actually  more  than  I  can  drink  in  ten  years. 
You  will  forgive  me  then  if,  whenever  this  second 
pipe  arrives,  I  dispose  of  it  to  the  best  advantage,  and 
pay  over  the  amount  to  your  agent,  or  banker. 
Moreover,  I  request  that  you  will  send  me  our  account 
current,  that  I  may  liquidate  the  balance  by  the 
earliest  opportunity.  My  dear  boy,  you  are  too 
generous  to  everybody.  Recollect,  I  beseech  you, 
that  you  ought  not  to  be  an  exile  for  ever. 

"  I  rejoice  to  hear  that  you  stand  so  well  with  Lord 
Cornwallis,  and  I  have  no  doubt  that,  sooner  or  later, 
his  favour  will  turn  to  a  profitable  account.  In  the 
meantime,  is  it  no  reward  to  be  able  to  hold  up  your 
head  in  such  times  as  these  and  to  bid  defiance  to 
inquiry  ?  I  am  sure  you  feel  as  I  do  on  this  occasion. 

VOL    II.  * 


374  ftfoe  jfrancte  ^Letters  [1787 

If  you  were  to  see  how  low  and  degraded  the  wealth 
of  India  is  at  this  moment  in  England,  you  would  not 
only  not  regret  your  poverty,  but  be  proud  of  it.  To 
your  brother  William  and  to  the  newspapers  I  must 
refer  you  for  all  the  business  of  Indian  politics,  &c. 
You  and  I  are  under  a  tacit  engagement  not  to 
meddle  with  public  affairs  ;  yet  I  cannot  help  recom- 
mending to  your  perusal  the  Morning  Herald  of  the 
5th  of  April  instant.  You  will  there  see  how  and  by 
what  honourable  courses,  the  cause  of  Mr.  Hastings 
has  been  supported.  All  I  shall  say  is,  you  may 
depend  upon  it  the  famous  talisman  is  broken  and  the 
enchanted  castle  is  dissolved.  I  fear  I  shall  not  be 
able  to  write  to  my  good  friend  Wilton.  Pray  tell 
him,  however,  that  whereas  my  inclination  heretofore 
led  me  to  love  him,  his  conduct  in  office,  confirmed 
to  me  by  Lord  Cornwallis's  approbation,  entitles  him 
to  my  sincere  and  hearty  esteem  ;  and  this  sentiment 
assuredly  will  last." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  WHO  WAS  AT  THE 
UNIVERSITY,  TO  HIS  SISTER  HARRIET. 

"  CAMBRIDGE, 
"June  io//z,  1787. 

"  MY  DEAR  HARRIET, 

"  I  wrote  to  Mrs.  Francis  last  Thursday, 
under  cover  to  my  father  directed  to  Harley  Street. 
But  I  suppose  it  has  miscarried,  or  has  been  sent  to 
my  father  in  a  mistake,  as  I  have  not  been  favoured 
with  a  line  in  return  from  any  one,  which  would  have 
been  highly  pleasing  to  me.  But  perhaps  you  have 
already  left  Town  and  on  that  supposition  I  shall 
direct  this  to  Sheen.  Victoria !  I  am  in  the  first 


1787]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  375 

Class — and  higher  than  I  could  possibly  expect — I  am 
the  fourth  from  the  top — so  you  see  my  labours  are 
rewarded  by  a  prize,  which  I  intend  bringing  home 
with  me — as  likewise  one  I  gained  last  year,  if  the 
head  Tutor  has  got  them  by  him.  I  am  in  high  spirits 
on  the  Occasion,  as  I  know  it  will  give  my  father 
great  pleasure,  and  convince  him  that  I  have  not  idled 
my  Time — concerning  which,  on  account  of  my  former 
follies,  he  may  still  be  in  some  doubt.  .  .  .  Pray 
inform  Mr.  Rosenhagen,  if  you  see  him,  of  my 
success,  as  I  act  under  his  Auspices  and  under  such 
who  could  fail.  How  goes  on  Italian  ?  I  am  feeding 
myself  up  with  the  thoughts  of  hearing  you  play  on 
the  Harpsichord — I  am  grown  so  distractedly  fond  of 
music  that  I  am  hardly  ever  happy  without  it.  I  am 
continually  teasing  Wynne  to  play  me  Mrs.  Jordan's 
songs — one  of  them  I  flatter  myself  I  can  play  with 
one  finger.  My  heart  bounds  at  the  thoughts  of 
returning  into  the  society  of  women — Men !  Men  ! 
what  a  Bore  to  see  nothing  else.  You  may  conceive 
this  to  be  all  nonsense  and  foppery — But  I  assure  you 
I  speak  from  the  Bottom  of  my  heart,  there  is  no 
pleasure  really  complete,  out  of  their  society — I  do 
not  say  that  one  must  be  always  tacked  to  the  tails  of 
women,  that  I  think  very  silly,  trifling  and  effeminate. 
My  soul  expands  at  the  Idea  of  hearing  and  seeing 
such  glorious  women  as  London  abounds  with.  Let 
people  say  what  they  will  concerning  the  beauties  of 
Circassia  &c.,  &c.,  England  is  the  only  place  where 
you  meet  with  them  in  perfection.  In  short,  in  my 
1  humble  '  opinion  (I  will  not  say  '  humble  '  for  I  glory 
in  it)  it  is  Women  alone  that  render  life  Tolerable — 


376  tEbe  jftanciB  Xetters  [1787 

now  you  have  got  my  real  thoughts  you  see.  I  set 
out  on  pretty  good  foundations,  now  model  me  as  you 
like — I  can  take  any  shape  you  please.  You'll  think 
me  mad,  but  one  has  a  license  to  be  a  little  distracted 
in  such  weather  as  this.  .  .  . 

"  Your  most  affectionate  Brother, 

"P.  FRANCIS." 

EDMUND  BURKE  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  WRITTEN 
APPARENTLY  IN  1788. 

"It  was  with  unmixed  pleasure  that  I  heard 
Mr.  Fox  the  other  day  do  justice  to  my  friend,  by 
owning  the  information  he  had,  and  the  wisdom  he 
might  have  gained,  had  he  had  such  a  flapper  at  his 
elbow  in  his  most  high  and  palmy  days.  '  I  have 
sucked  many  brains  in  my  time  (he  said),  and 
seldom  found  more  to  reward  me.  Few  men  say  so 
much  in  so  few  words.'  (  Aye,  sir,'  I  replied,  '  multum 
in parvo  :  his  style  has  no  gummy  flesh  about  it.'  But 
I  must  not  enlarge ;  for  I  am  so  much  yours,  and  have 
so  much  of  yours,  that  your  triumphs  puff  me  up  as 
with  a  sense  of  personal  merit.  Still  I  may  allow 
myself  the  more  satisfaction  in  finding  that  Mr.  Fox 
acknowledges  your  value  ;  as  I  know  he  has  earwigs 
about  him,  who  buz  in  his  ears  all  the  pitiful  calumnies 
that  a  Hastings  or  a  B.  and  Co.  have  deluged  the 
town  with,  since  your  return  from  India  ;  and  I  feared 
the  fatal  facility  of  his  temper,  which  yields  to 
proximity  rather  than  be  at  the  trouble  of  examining 
and  detecting." 

The  following  letter  from  Francis  to  Burke  is  an 


1 79°]  ftbe  If  rands  Xetters  377 

acknowledgment  of  and  a  criticism  upon  Burke's 
"  Reflections  on  the  Revolution  in  France,"  the  draft 
of  which  had  apparently  been  sent  to  Francis  for 
perusal  before  publication. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EDMUND  BURKE. 

"February  19,  1790. 

"  MY  DEAR  MR.   BURKE, 

"  I  am  sorry  you  should  have  had  the  trouble 
of  sending  for  the  printed  paper  you  lent  me  yesterday, 
though  I  own  I  cannot  much  regret  even  a  fault  of  my 
own  that  helps  to  delay  the  publication  of  that  paper. 
I  know  with  certainty  that  I  am  the  only  friend,  and 
many  there  are,  who  ventures  to  contradict  or  oppose 
you  face  to  face  on  subjects  of  this  nature.  They 
either  care  too  little  for  you,  or  too  much  for  themselves 
to  run  the  risk  of  giving  you  immediate  offence,  for 
the  sake  of  any  subsequent  or  remote  advantage  you 
might  derive  from  it.  But  what  they  withhold  from 
you,  they  communicate  very  liberally  to  me ;  because 
they  think,  or  pretend,  that  I  have  some  influence 
over  you,  which  I  have  not,  but  which,  on  the  present 
occasion,  I  most  devoutly  wish  I  had.  I  am  not 
afraid  of  exasperating  you  against  me,  at  any  given 
moment ;  because  I  know  you  will  cool  again  and 
place  it  all  to  the  right  account. 

"It  is  the  proper  province  and  ought  to  be  the 
privilege  of  an  inferior  to  criticise  and  advise.  The 
best  possible  critic  of  the  Iliad  would  be,  ipso  facto, 
and  by  virtue  of  that  very  character,  incapable  of 
being  the  author  of  it.  Standing  as  I  do  in  this 
relation  to  you,  you  would  renounce  your  superiority, 
if  you  refused  to  be  advised  by  me. 


378  Ube  jfrancts  Xettets  [179° 

"  Waving  all  discussion  concerning  the  substance 
and  general  tendency  of  this  printed  letter,  I  must 
declare  my  opinion,  that  what  I  have  seen  of  it  is  very 
loosely  put  together.  In  point  of  writing,  at  least,  the 
manuscript  you  showed  me  first  was  much  less 
objectionable.  Remember  that  this  is  one  of  the 
most  singular,  that  it  may  be  the  most  distinguished, 
and  ought  to  be  one  of  the  most  deliberate  acts 
of  your  life.  Your  writings  have  hitherto  been  the 
delight  and  instruction  of  your  own  country.  You 
now  undertake  to  correct  and  instruct  another  nation, 
and  your  appeal,  in  effect,  is  to  all  Europe.  Allowing 
you  the  liberty  to  do  so  in  an  extreme  case,  you 
cannot  deny  that  it  ought  to  be  done  with  special 
deliberation  in  the  choice  of  the  topics,  and  with  no 
less  care  and  circumspection  in  the  use  you  make  of 
them.  Have  you  thoroughly  considered  whether  it  be 
worthy  of  Mr.  Burke — of  a  privy-counsellor — of  a  man 
so  high  and  considerable  in  the  House  of  Commons  as 
you  are — and  holding  the  station  you  have  obtained  in 
the  opinion  of  the  world,  to  enter  into  a  War  of 
pamphlets  with  Dr.  Price  ?  If  he  answered  you,  as 
assuredly  he  will,  (and  so  will  many  others)  can  you 
refuse  to  reply  to  a  person  whom  you  have  attacked  ? 
If  you  do,  you  are  defeated  in  a  battle  of  your  own 
provoking,  and  driven  to  fly  from  ground  of  your  own 
choosing.  If  you  do  not,  where  is  such  a  contest  to 
lead  you,  but  into  a  vile  and  disgraceful,  though  it 
were  ever  so  victorious,  an  altercation?  'Di  meliora.' 
But  if  you  will  do  it,  away  with  all  jest,  and  sneer,  and 
sarcasm  ;  let  every  thing  you  say  be  grave,  direct,  and 
serious.  In  a  case  so  interesting  as  the  errors  of  a 


1790]  ^be  tfrancte  Xetters  379 

great  nation,  and  the  calamities  of  great  individuals, 
and  feeling  them  so  deeply  as  you  profess  to  do,  all 
manner  of  insinuation  is  improper,  all  gibe  and  nick- 
name prohibited.  In  my  opinion  all  that  you  say  of 
the  Queen  is  pure  foppery.  If  she  be  a  perfect  female 
character,  you  ought  to  take  your  ground  upon  her 
virtues.  If  she  be  the  reverse,  it  is  ridiculous  in  any 
but  a  lover  to  place  her  personal  charms  in  opposition 
to  her  crimes.  Either  way,  I  know  the  argument 
must  proceed  upon  a  supposition,  for  neither  have  you 
said  anything  to  establish  her  moral  merits,  nor  have 
her  accusers  formally  tried  and  convicted  her  of  guilt. 
On  this  subject,  however,  you  cannot  but  know,  that 
the  opinion  of  the  world  is  not  lately,  but  has  been 
many  years  decided.  But  in  effect,  when  you  assert 
her  claim  to  protection  and  respect,  on  no  other  topics 
than  those  of  gallantry,  and  beauty  and  personal 
accomplishments,  you  virtually  abandon  the  proof  and 
assertion  of  her  innocence,  which  you  know  is  the  point 
substantially  in  question.  Pray,  sir,  how  long  have 
you  felt  yourself  so  desperately  disposed  to  admire  the 
ladies  of  Germany  ?  I  despise  and  abhor,  as  much  as 
you  can  do,  all  personal  insult  and  outrage,  even  to 
guilt  itself,  if  I  see  it,  where  it  ought  to  be,  dejected 
and  helpless,  but  it  is  in  vain  to  expect  that  I,  or  any 
reasonable  man,  shall  regret  the  sufferings  of  a 
Messalina,  as  I  should  those  of  a  Mrs.  Crewe  or  a 
Mrs.  Burke ;  I  mean  all  that  is  beautiful  or  virtuous 
among  women.  Is  it  nothing  but  outside  ?  Have 
they  no  moral  minds  ?  Or  are  you  such  a  determined 
champion  of  beauty  as  to  draw  your  sword  in  defence 
of  any  jade  upon  earth,  provided  she  be  handsome  ? 


380  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1790 

Look  back,  I  beseech  you,  and  deliberate  a  little, 
before  you  determine  that  this  is  an  office  that  per- 
fectly becomes  you.  If  I  stop  here,  it  is  not  for  want 
of  a  multitude  of  objections.  The  mischief  you  are 
going  to  do  yourself,  is,  to  my  apprehension,  palpable. 
It  is  visible.  It  will  be  audible.  I  snuff  it  in  the 
wind.  I  taste  it  already.  I  feel  it  in  every  sense  ; 
and  so  will  you  hereafter,  when,  I  vow  to  God,  (a 
most  elegant  phrase,)  it  will  be  no  sort  of  consolation 
for  me  to  reflect  that  I  did  everything  in  my  power  to 
prevent  it.  I  wish  you  were  at  the  devil  for  giving 
me  all  this  trouble ;  and  so  farewell. 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 

EDMUND  BURKE  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"GERHARD  ST., 
"  Feb.  20,  £  after  P.M.,  1790. 

"  MY  DEAR  SIR, 

"  I  sat  up  rather  late  at  Carlton  House,  and 
on  my  return  hither  I  found  your  letter  on  my  table. 
I  have  not  slept  since.  You  will  therefore  excuse 
me  if  you  find  anything  confused,  or  otherwise  ex- 
pressed than  I  could  wish  in  speaking  to  you  upon 
a  matter  which  interests  you  from  your  regard  to 
me.  There  are  some  things  in  your  letter  for  which 
I  must  thank  you  ;  there  are  others  which  I  must 
answer  ;  some  things  bear  the  mark  of  friendly  ad- 
monition, others  bear  some  resemblance  to  the  tone 
of  accusation. 

"  You  are  the  only  friend  I  have  who  will  dare 
to  give  me  advice.  I  must  have  then,  something 
terrible  in  me,  which  intimidates  all  others  who  know 
me  from  giving  me  the  only  unequivocal  mark  of 


1790]  3be  jfnmcis  Xetters  381 

regard.  Whatever  this  rough  and  menacing  manner 
may  be,  I  must  search  myself  upon  it  ;  and  when 
I  discover  it,  old  as  I  am,  I  must  endeavour  to  correct 
it.  I  flattered  myself,  however,  that  you  at  least 
would  not  have  thought  my  other  friends  altogether 
justified  in  withholding  from  me  their  services  of 
this  kind.  You  certainly  do  not  always  convey  to 
me  your  opinions  with  the  greatest  possible  tender- 
ness and  management,  and  yet  I  do  not  recollect, 
since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  your  acquaintance,  that 
there  has  been  a  heat  or  a  coolness  of  a  single  day's 
duration  on  my  side  during  that  whole  time.  I 
believe  your  memory  cannot  present  to  you  an  instance 
of  it.  I  ill  deserve  friends  if  I  throw  them  away  on 
account  of  their  candour,  and  simplicity  of  their  good 
nature.  In  particular,  you  know  that  you  have  in 
some  instances  favoured  me  with  your  instructions 
relative  to  things  I  was  preparing  for  the  public. 
If  I  did  not  in  every  instance  agree  with  you,  I 
think  you  had  on  the  whole  sufficient  proofs  of  my 
docility  to  make  you  believe  that  I  received  your 
corrections  not  only  without  offence,  but  with  no 
small  degree  of  gratitude.  Your  remarks  upon  the 
two  first  sheets  of  my  Paris  letter,  relate  to  the 
composition  and  the  matter.  The  composition  you 
say  is  loose ;  and  I  am  quite  sure  it  is.  I  never 
intended  it  should  be  otherwise ;  for  purporting  to 
be,  what  in  truth  it  originally  was,  a  letter  to  a  friend, 
I  had  no  idea  of  digesting  it  in  a  systematick  order. 
The  style  is  open  to  correction,  and  wants  it.  The 
natural  style  of  writing  is  somewhat  careless  ;  and  I 
should  be  happy  in  receiving  your  advice  towards 


382  Ube  jfrancts  ^Letters  [1790 

making  it  as  little  vicious  as  such  a  style  is  capable 
of  being  made.  The  general  character  and  colour 
of  a  style  which  grows  out  of  the  writer's  peculiar 
turn  of  mind  and  habit  of  expressing  his  thoughts 
must  be  attended  to  in  all  connections.  It  is  not 
the  insertion  of  a  piece  of  stuff,  though  of  a  better 
kind,  which  is  at  all  times  an  improvement. 

"  Your  main  objections  are  however  of  a  much 
deeper  nature,  and  go  to  the  political  opinions  and 
moral  sentiment  of  the  piece,  in  which  I  find  (though 
with  no  sort  of  surprise  having  often  talked  with 
you  on  the  subject)  that  we  differ  only  in  everything. 
You  say,  '  the  mischief  you  are  going  to  do  yourself 
is  to  my  apprehension  palpable,  I  snuff  it  in  the 
wind,  and  my  taste  sickens  at  it.'  this  anticipated 
stench  that  turns  your  stomach  at  such  a  distance 
must  be  nauseous  indeed.  You  seem  to  think  I  shall 
incur  great  (and  not  wholly  undeserved)  infamy  by 
this  publication.  This  makes  it  a  matter  of  some 
delicacy  to  me  to  suppress  what  I  have  written,  for 
I  must  admit  in  my  own  feeling,  and  in  that  of  those 
who  have  seen  this  piece,  that  my  sentiments  and 
opinions  deserve  the  infamy  with  which  they  are 
threatened.  If  they  do  not,  I  know  nothing  more 
than  that  I  oppose  the  prejudices  and  inclinations 
of  many  people.  This  I  was  well  aware  of  from  the 
beginning,  and  it  was  in  order  to  oppose  these  in- 
clinations and  prejudices  that  I  proposed  to  publish 
my  letter.  I  really  am  perfectly  astonished  how  you 
could  dream  with  my  paper  in  your  hand — that  I 
found  no  other  cause  than  the  Beauty  of  the  Queen 
of  France  (now  I  suppose  pretty  much  faded)  for 


1790]  TIbe  jfrancte  Xetters  383 

disapproving  the  Conduct  which  has  been  held  towards 
her,  and  for  expressing  my  own  particular  feelings. 
I   am  not  to  order  the   Natural    Sympathies  of  my 
own  Breast,  and  of  every  honest  breast  to  wait  until 
all  the  Japes  of  all  the  anecdotes  of  the  Coffee  houses 
of  Paris   and    of  the    dissenting   meeting   houses   of 
London  are  scoured  of  all  the  slander  of  those  who 
calumniate  persons  that  afterwards  they  may  murder 
them  with  impunity  ?     I  know  nothing  of  your  story 
of  Messalina.     Am  I   obliged  to  prove  juridically  the 
Virtues  of  all  those  I  shall  see   suffering  every  kind 
of  wrong,   and  contumely,  and  risk  of  Life  before  I 
endeavour  to   interest  others  in  their  sufferings  and 
before  I  endeavour  to  excite  an  horror  against  mid- 
night assassins  at  back  stairs,  and  their  more  wicked 
abettors    in    Pulpits  ?      What,    are    not    high    Rank, 
great  splendour  of  descent,  great  personal  Elegance, 
and  outward  accomplishments  ingredients  of  moment 
in  forming  the  interest  we  take  in  the  Misfortunes  of 
others?     The  minds  of  those  who  do  not  feel  thus 
are   not  even  dramatically  right.       '  What's   Hecuba 
to  him  or  he  to   Hecuba  that   he   should    weep   for 
her?'  why,  because  she  was   Hecuba,  the  Queen  of 
Troy,  the  wife  of  Priam,  and  suffered  in  the  close 
of  Life  a  thousand  Calamities.     I  felt  too  for  Hecuba 
when    I    read   the   fine    Tragedy  of  Euripides  upon 
her  story ;  and  I  never  enquired  into  the  Anecdotes 
of  the  Court  or  City  of  Troy  before  I  gave  way  to 
the  sentiments  which  the  author  wished  to  inspire  ; 
nor  do   I   remember  he  ever  said  one  word  of  her 
Virtues.       It    is    for   those    who   applaud    or   palliate 
assassination,    regicide   and    base    insults   to   Women 


384  Ufoe  jftancis  betters  [179° 

of  illustrious  place  to  prove  the  Crimes  in  the 
sufferers  which  they  allege  to  justify  their  own. 
But  if  they  had  proved  fornication  on  any  such  a 
Woman,  taking  the  Manners  of  the  world  and  the 
Manners  of  France,  I  shall  never  put  it  in  a  parallel 
with  assassination.  No !  I  have  no  such  inverted 
Scale  of  Faults  in  my  heart  or  my  head.  You  find 
it  perfectly  ridiculous  and  unfit  for  me  in  particular, 
to  take  these  things  as  my  ingredients  of  Commisera- 
tion. Pray  why  so?  Is  it  absurd  in  me,  to  think 
that  the  Chivalrous  Spirit,  which  dictated  a  veneration 
for  women  of  condition  and  of  beauty  without  any 
consideration  whatever  of  enjoying  them  was  the 
great  source  of  those  manners  which  have  been  the 
pride  and  ornament  of  Europe  for  so  many  ages  ? 
and  I  am  not  to  lament  that  I  have  lived  to  see 
those  manners  extinguished  in  so  shocking  a  manner 
by  mean  speculations  of  finance  and  the  false  science 
of  a  sordid  and  degenerate  philosophy  ?  I  tell  you 
again  that  the  recollection  of  the  manner  in  which 
I  saw  the  Queen  of  France  in  the  year  1774  and 
the  contrast  between  that  brilliancy,  splendour,  and 
beauty  with  the  prostrate  homage  of  a  nation  to  her, 
compared  with  the  abominable  scene  of  1789  which 
I  was  describing  did  draw  tears  from  me  and  wetted 
my  paper.  These  tears  came  again  into  my  eyes 
almost  as  often  as  I  looked  at  the  description.  They 
may  again.  You  do  not  believe  this  fact,  nor  that 
these  are  my  real  feelings,  but  that  the  whole  is 
affected  or  as  you  express  it  *  down  right  foppery,' 
my  friend,  I  tell  you  it  is  truth,  and  that  it  is  true 
and  will  be  true  when  you  and  I  are  no  more,  and 


1 79°]  ttbe  Brands  ^Letters  385 

will  exist  as  long  as  men  with  their  natural  feelings 
exist.  I  shall  say  no  more  on  this  foppery  of  mine. 
Oh !  by  the  way  you  ask  me  how  long  I  have  been 
an  admirer  of  German  Ladies  ?  Always  the  same. 
Present  me  the  idea  of  such  massacres  about  any 
German  Lady  here  and  such  attempts  to  assassinate 
her,  and  such  a  triumphal  procession  from  Windsor 
to  the  old  Jewry,  and  I  assure  you  I  shall  be  quite 
as  full  of  natural  concern  and  just  indignation.  As 
to  the  other  points  they  deserve  serious  consideration 
and  they  shall  have  it.  I  certainly  cannot  profit  quite 
as  much  by  your  assistance  as  if  we  were  agreed. 
In  that  case  every  correction  would  be  forwarding 
the  design,  we  should  work  with  one  common  view. 
But  it  is  impossible  that  any  man  can  correct  a 
work  according  to  its  true  spirit  who  is  opposed 
to  its  object  or  can  help  the  expression  of  what  he 
thinks  ought  not  to  be  expressed  at  all. 

"  I  should  agree  with  you  about  the  vileness  of 
the  controversy  with  such  miscreants  as  the  Revolu- 
tion Society  and  the  National  Assembly,  and  I  know 
very  well  that  they  as  well  as  their  allies  the  Indian 
delinquents  will  darken  the  air  with  their  arrows. 
But  I  do  not  yet  think  they  have  the  advowson  of 
reputation,  I  shall  try  that  point.  My  dear  Sir,  you 
think  of  nothing  but  controversies,  *  I  challenge  into 
the  field  of  battle  and  return  defeated.'  If  their 
having  the  last  word  be  a  defeat,  they  most  assuredly 
will  defeat  me,  but  I  intend  no  controversy  with 
Dr.  Price  or  Lord  Shelburne  or  any  of  their  set. 
I  mean  to  set  in  a  full  View  the  danger  from  their 
wicked  principles  and  their  black  hearts,  I  intend 


386  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  (.1790 

to  state  the  true  principles  of  our  constitution  in 
Church  and  State,  upon  grounds  opposite  to  theirs. 
If  any  one  be  the  better  for  the  example  made  of 
them  and  for  this  exposition,  well  and  good.  I  mean 
to  do  my  best  to  expose  them  to  the  hatred,  ridicule 
and  contempt  of  the  whole  world,  as  I  shall  always 
expose  such  calumniators,  hypocrites,  sowers  of 
sedition,  and  approvers  of  murder  and  all  its  triumphs. 
When  I  have  done  that,  they  may  have  the  field  to 
themselves  and  I  care  very  little  how  they  triumph 
over  me  since  I  hope  they  will  not  be  able  to  draw 
me  at  their  heels  and  carry  my  head  in  triumph  on 
their  poles.  I  have  been  interrupted,  and  have  said 
enough.  Adieu,  believe  me  always  sensible  of  your 
friendship,  though  it  is  impossible  that  a  greater 
difference  can  exist  between  any  sentiments  on  those 
subjects  than,  unfortunately  for  me,  there  is  between 
yours  and  mine. 

"  E.  BURKE." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  SIR  R.  CHAMBERS.1 

"ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"April  27/7?,  1791. 

"In  my  situation  there  has  been  no  sort  of  change, 
except  that  I  have  removed  into  a  very  convenient 
house  in  St.  James's  Square,  where  I  believe  I  am 
at  anchor  for  life.  The  name  of  the  situation  sounds 
well  ;  but  you  would  be  much  mistaken  in  concluding 
that  I  lived  in  a  palace,  or  at  all  like  a  prince.  Some 
lucky  accidents  have  enabled  me  to  venture  once 
more  into  Parliament,  though  at  a  great  expense. 
1  Chief  Justice  at  Calcutta. 


1791]  ftbe  ffrancte  betters  387 

This  is  the  last  time  of  asking.  My  daughters  are 
everything  I  could  wish,  and  very  likely  to  be  happy 
too,  if  they  can  reconcile  themselves  to  believe  that 
happiness  may  be  had  without  marriage.  Security 
and  independence  they  shall  have,  at  least  as  long 
as  fortune  can  be  secured  in  England.  My  son  has 
been  two  years  in  the  Temple,  and  also  studying 
under  a  special  pleader.  So  I  have  done  my  part 
for  him,  and  infinitely  more  than  was  done  for  me. 
The  idea  of  actual  war  with  Russia  seems  to  be 
abandoned  by  everybody,  and  particularly  disclaimed 
by  the  friends  of  Mr.  Pitt.  Yet  the  expense  of  the 
armament  is  continued,  and  the  pressing  of  seamen, 
both  here  and  in  Ireland,  goes  on  as  strenuously 
as  if  war  had  been  declared.  I  really  intend  to 
behave  better  than  I  have  done,  and  to  be  a 
laudable  correspondent  hereafter.  But  I  know  my 
own  frailty  too  well  to  make  solemn  engagements 
about  writing.  Much  depends  upon  the  topics  of 
the  day,  the  temper  of  the  moment,  the  immediate 
occasion,  and  the  general  habit  of  writing.  While 
I  was  in  training  in  Bengal,  I  had  no  mercy  on 
my  friends  in  England.  I  wrote  volumes  of  private 
letters,  and  thought  nothing  of  it.  My  silence  and 
negligence  now,  I  do  assure  you,  is  no  proof  of  a 
want  of  good  will.  Give  me  credit  for  more  than 
I  say,  and  do  not  rigorously  measure  my  merits  by 
my  practice.  I  look  back  to  old  times  and  remember 
old  friends  with  a  tender  affectionate  interest,  con- 
sidering them  as  objects  in  which  I  have  long  had 
a  property.  They  are  not  like  the  events  or 
connexions  of  yesterday,  which  have  not  had  time 


388  tTbe  jf  rands  Xetters  [1791 

to  take  root  in  the  mind.  My  wife  and  family, 
too,  have  been  brought  up  to  think  that  they  in 
some  sort  belong  to  you,  and  that  they  do  not  go 
out  of  their  own  family,  when  they  wish  to  be 
united  with  you  and  with  yours. 

"  Is  there  anything  in  this  England  in  which  I 
can  contribute  to  your  service  or  to  your  satisfaction  ? 
I  should  like  to  be  tried. 

"  Your  most  sincerely  and  affectionately, 

"P.  F. 

"  As  to  the  ninth  report,  which  is  indeed  a 
masterpiece  of  human  wisdom,  the  fact  is  I  wrote 
a  very  small  part  of  it,  and,  as  to  the  composition, 
corrected  the  whole. 

"  On  memory  only,  and  speaking  without  book,  I 
think  I  can  say  with  truth  that  there  is  not  one  material 
principle  or  deduction  in  it  which  may  not  be  fairly  and 
honestly  traced  back  to  some  antecedent  opinions  of  my 
own,  dilated  on  and  expanded  by  a  superior  power. 
In  some  respects  I  am  the  acorn.  But,  if  you  want  to 
see  the  oak  in  all  its  beauty,  dignity,  and  strength, 
read  the  ninth  report,  the  sole  undoubted  property  of 
the  commanding  master-mind  of  Edmund  Burke. 

"It  is  true  he  sucked  the  saccharine  juices  out 
of  all  vegetation,  even  from  such  a  wild  weed  as 
myself,  and  turned  it  to  his  purpose  ;  but  he  alone 
was  the  wonderful  artificer,  who  made  the  wax,  the 
comb,  and  the  honey." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  JOHN  BRISTOW  AT  CALCUTTA. 
"  I  agree  with  Ld.  Cs.  [Cornwallis]  that   to   culti- 
vate grain  beyond  the  Measure  of  Consumption,   or 


1790  ttbe  fftancia  letters  389 

Exportation,  would  be  Labour  thrown  away.  But  take 
Care  you  do  not  stop  short  of  that  Measure.  Better 
over  do  it,  than  fail.  The  first  Object  of  every  prudent 
Government,  the  sine  qua  non,  not  only  of  Prosperity, 
but  Safety,  is  to  provide  for  the  abundant  Subsistence 
of  the  People.  At  the  very  season,  when  it  was 
suggested  to  me  that  the  Cultivation  of  Grain  was 
carried  too  far,  all  the  Letters  from  Bengal  were 
filled  with  the  most  shocking  and  melancholy  accounts 
of  the  Effects  of  a  Famine  all  over  the  Country, 
and  of  the  People  perishing  by  hundreds  in  the 
Streets  of  Calcutta.  If  Opium  were  a  Necessary 
of  Life,  there  might  be  some  wisdom  in  extending 
the  Cultivation  of  the  Poppy ;  but  then  it  ought  not 
to  be  the  subject  of  a  Monopoly.  The  true  Way 
to  extend  the  Cultivation  of  any  Article  whatsoever 
is  to  leave  the  Sale  and  Cultivation  of  it  perfectly 
free.  On  the  other  Hand,  if  you  will  engross  the 
Commodity,  you  ought  not  to  extend  the  Cultivation, 
particularly  of  a  pernicious  Drug,  whose  Tendency 
is  to  lessen  the  Number  of  it's  Consumers.  The 
principle  of  all  Monopoly  is  to  make  the  greatest 
possible  Profit  in  the  smallest  possible  Quantity. 
Arbitrary  Power  may  grasp  a  lucrative  Object  that 
lies  in  a  narrow  Compass.  Beyond  that  point  the 
more  you  extend  the  less  you  can  engross.  You 
really  talk  to  me  of  Opium  as  you  would  do  of 
Rice,  or  Wheat ;  as  if  you  had  an  open  market  for 
it ;  or  as  if  no  human  Creature  could  sleep  without 
it.  ...  We  had  not  the  good  Fortune  to  see  Mrs. 
Bristow  for  some  Weeks  before  her  Departure,  On 
our  Part,  I  hope  and  believe  that  Nothing  was 
VOL.  ii.  4 


390  ZTbe  if  rands  Xetters  [1791 

omitted.  Undoubtedly  she  had  more  than  enough 
to  occupy  and  distract  her  Mind.  I  can  assure  you 
she  carries  the  hearty  good  Wishes  of  all  this  Family 
along  with  Her.  I  shall  make  up  this  Pacquet 
now.  If  any  thing  material  should  occur,  you  shall 
have  it  in  a  separate  Letter. 

"  Yours 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CHRISTOPHER  D'OYLY. 

"4/$  August,  1791. 

"  I  returned  about  a  Week  ago  from  Paris,  and 
have  seen  as  much  of  the  Country  as  such  a  Tour 
would  permit.  I  have  seen,  observed,  and  inquired 
into  every  Thing  to  the  utmost  of  my  power ;  and  I 
think  I  may  tell  you  with  Confidence,  that  France 
promises  to  be  the  most  flourishing  Country  in  the 
World,  excepting  North  America.  Undoubtedly  they 
still  have  great  difficulties  to  encounter.  But  when 
was  there  any  Thing  great  and  eminent  done  in  the 
World,  without  Labour,  Contest,  and  Hazard  ? 
Believe  me,  they  know  their  own  Affairs  best,  &  they 
laugh  at  the  flimsy  Criticisms,  so  much  puffed  and 
admired  in  England.  I  cannot  answer  for  the  Event 
of  External  Violence,  tho'  I  see  no  appearance  of  its 
being  attempted.  Contrary  Winds  may  retard  their 
Voyage.  A  Tempest  may  sink  the  stoutest  Ship. 
All  human  skill  may  be  overpowered  by  the  Force  of 
the  Elements.  But  these  are  Accidents  beyond  the 
Reach  of  Calculation.  The  national  Assembly,  in 
my  opinion,  have  done  everything  that  brave  and 
wise  men  could  do  to  serve  their  Country. 


ffrancte  Xettets  39* 

"  I  send  you  inclosed  the  Heads  of  what  I  said 
about  the  Slave  trade.  I  know  the  price  I  shall  pay 
for  having  said  so  much,  &  yet  I  am  ashamed  of 
having  said  so  little.  I  should  like  to  hear  that  Mrs. 
D'Oyly  and  you  enjoy  better  health  in  the  Country, 
than  you  did  in  town.  But  I  will  not  ask  you  to 
write  even  a  Line,  if  it  be  more  Labour  than  you 
can  bear. 

"  Elizabeth  has  been  very  ill  indeed  for  nearly 
four  Months.  She  is  now  recovering,  &  we  hope 
that  Seabathing  will  make  her  well.  My  most 
affectionate  Duty  waits  on  Mrs.  D'Oyly. 

11  Yours, 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTER  ELIZABETH. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"2U/  Oct.,  1791. 
"  MY    DEAREST    FAT    CAT, 

"It  was  very  good  of  you  to  write  me  such 
a  kind  Letter  ;  and,  God  knows,  I  wish  you  could 
have  added  something  satisfactory  about  your  health. 
I  have  done  everything  I  could  to  make  you  all 
happy  ;  but  I  cannot  be  so  myself,  if  any  of  you  are 
sick.  .  .  .  The  weather  here  has  been  violently  bad 
for  some  days  ;  and  there  is  no  pacquet  on  this  side ; 
and  you  may  be  sure  I  shall  not  trust  myself  to  any- 
thing less  than  a  quiet  sea,  and  a  fair  Wind.  I  am 
pleased  with  your  going  to  the  Archery,  insomuch 
that,  if  the. Charges  should  be  heavy,  I  shall  be  ready 
to  contribute.  .  .  .  Cultivate  with  Mrs.  Bouverie,  if  it 
falls  in  your  way  sans  faire  semblant  de  rien.  I  take 
her  to  be  one  of  the  most  accomplished  women  in 


392  t£be  jfrancte  Xetters 

England.     Last  night  at  Thomson's  with  Mrs.  Fitz* 

[Fitzherbert]     and     tonight    am     solicited     to  Mrs. 

Canneck's   and   don't   like   it.     I   thought  that  letter 

had   been   from    Breton.      You   must   know    I  don't 
want  the  Company  of  any  of  them. 

"  Yours  solemnly, 

"  P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  WIFE. 

"  PARIS, 

"30^  Oct.,  1791. 
"  MY  DEAR  MRS.  F., 

"  I  wrote  you  a  few  lines  from  Dieppe. 
Since  that,  my  Arrival  in  this  place  is  the  only  im- 
portant thing,  that  has  occurred  to  me.  Wind  and 
weather  have  hitherto  done  everything  they  could 
to  serve  me.  Windham  is  here  and  of  course  we 
have  been  a  good  deal  together.  I  believe  I  shall 
easily  prevail  on  him  to  stay  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks 
longer.  In  persuading  him  not  to  resolve,  and  still 
more  not  to  execute,  I  have  every  thing  that  belongs 
to  him,  in  my  favour. — There  is  certainly  a  spell  upon 
me  about  Joseph  Macnamara.1  The  first  person  I 
heard  of,  and  the  second  I  saw  was  his  noble  self;  so 
I  was  forced  to  pay  a  visit  to  his  Lady,  who  received 
me  at  the  head  of  her  children  with  all  Manner  of 
Affability.  They  have  taken  a  house  near  Paris, 
where  they  intend  to  pass  the  Winter.  Mrs.  Wheler 
is  here  too  and  I  have  paid  her  a  visit  which  I  flatter 
myself  will  never  be  repaid.  And  you  shall  hear  by 
and  bye  of  my  going  thro'  all  the  Ceremonies  like 

1  Captain  Macnamara,  a  captain  in  the  Navy,  and  an  acquaint- 
ance of  Mrs.  Francis. 


1791]  tTbe  jfrancte  Xettcrs  393 

a  Lord  of  the  Bedchamber.  As  yet  I  have  had  no 
time.  As  far  as  I  can  discern,  these  people  are 
happier  without  money  than  with  it.  Not  an  Atom 
of  Gold  or  Silver  have  I  seen,  but  what  I  brought 
with  me.  My  pockets  are  stuffed  with  Bank  Notes, 
every  one  of  which  is  worth  threepence  3  farthings, 
or  thereabouts.  And  they  all  understand  it  to  a 
Miracle.  If  you  pay  a  Hackney  Coachman  a  shilling, 
he  allows  you  the  discount  and  settles  it  in  paper. 
Yet  everything  seems  to  thrive,  and  who  would  be 
plagued  with  Money  when  paper  does  the  Business  ? 
I  wish  to  hear  that  you  are  all  well,  but  alas,  I  fear 
for  poor  Elisabeth.  My  hearty  love  to  you  all.  If 
you  find  the  weather  grow  very  bad  or  the  place  too 
solitary  and  uncomfortable  remove  to  Town  when 
you  like.  Undoubtedly  I  shall  stay  here  a  Fortnight 
or  three  weeks.  While  Mrs.  Culverden  staid  at 
Sheen,  I  suppose  you  went  on  pretty  well.  But  now 
that  the  leaves  have  left  you,  as  well  as  she,  perhaps 
you  would  find  it  pleasanter  in  London.  All  I  can 
say  is,  please  yourselves.  If  you  write  direct  to  me 
a  f  Hotel  des  Ambassadeurs, 

rue  neuve  St.  Marie, 

a  Paris 

and  pray  tell  me  everything  you  know  concerning 
Mr.  Burt's  death,  and  how  she  is  provided  for — How 
Mrs.  C.  has  behaved  herself  on  the  Occasion  and 
what  the  Consequence  of  it  is  likely  to  be.  Any  of 
the  Girls  may  assist  in  composing  a  long  Letter  on 
a  Sheet  of  Fool's  Cap.  The  post  to  Paris  goes  every 
Tuesday  and  Friday.  Yours  and  theirs  cordially, 

"P.  F. 


394  ^be  jfrancfs  ^Letters  [1791 

"  Give  my  love  to  Philip  and  desire  him  to  go  and 
look  at  Mr.  Thicknesse's  Bust  at  Mr.  Heckey's 
Statuary  No.  122  I  think  in  Oxford  Road  and  offer 
him  his  Remarks  and  Improvements." 

Mr.  George  Thicknesse,  Francis's  old  master  at 
St.  Paul's,  died  in  1 790,  and  was  buried  at  Warmington. 
Francis  composed  a  Latin  epitaph  for  his  tomb,  which 
he  sent  to  Mr.  Burke  to  read,  asking  his  opinion  of 
it  as  a  composition,  and  also  as  a  tribute  to  his  friend. 
Mr.  Burke,  in  his  reply,  says  : — 

"  I  thank  you  for  the  honour  you  have  done  me 
in  thinking  that  my  obselete  and  worn  out  ideas  of 
classical  expression  can  be  of  any  use  to  you. 

"  Such  as  they  are  they  are  at  your  service. 

"  I  have  scribbled  in  your  margin  a  trifling  note  or 
two.  ...  I  think  you  have  said  more  of  Mr.  Thick- 
nesse in  your  conversations  with  me  than  is  said  in 
the  inscription." 

Francis  had  called  Mr.  Thicknesse  "  the  wisest, 
learnedst,  quietest  and  best  man  "  he  ever  knew. 

Since  his  return  from  India  Francis,  along  with 
the  other  statesmen  of  the  Whig  Party,  had  become 
intimate  with  the  Prince  of  Wales  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert. 
He  was  a  constant  visitor  at  the  Pavilion,  Brighton, 
where  he  was  always  a  welcome  guest. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  FITZHERBERT. 

"  PARIS, 
"Nov.  7th,  1791. 

"  MADAM, 

"  I   should  have  lived  a  Fortnight  at  Paris 
to  very  little  purpose,  if  I  had  not  learned  by  this  time, 


1791]  £be  ffrancte  betters  395 

with  great  certainty,  that  all  persons,  who  are  trusted 
are  bound  to  give  an  account.  These  people  are 
grown  so  fond  of  Responsibility,  that  a  frenchman 
would  refuse  to  be  employed  if  you  denied  him  the 
Satisfaction  of  telling  you  how  well  he  had  behaved 
himself.  I  should  like  to  see  such  a  principle  prevail 
in  England.  The  Compte  rendit  of  Mr.  Pitt  for 
example,  would  be  distinguished  in  History.  Permit 
me  to  follow  the  Fashion  of  the  place  I  live  in,  though 
I  suspect  there  may  be  more  vanity  than  virtue  at 
the  Bottom  of  it.  In  some  cases  it  gives  them  an 
opportunity  of  talking  to  persons  they  admire,  and 
at  all  times  the  Consolation  of  talking  about  themselves. 
But  I  am  writing  a  long  Preface  to  a  short  History. 
I  hope  it  will  suggest  to  you  some  reason  or  other 
for  excusing  the  Trouble  I  am  giving  you.  Mr.  John 
Payne  had  departed  this  Life  a  few  days  before  my 
Arrival.  The  pacquet  you  intrusted  to  me  may 
contain  Letters  of  Consequence.  I  shall  not  be  in 
London  before  the  seventh  of  next  Month,  and  you 
gave  me  no  instructions  about  sending  it  back,  but 
rather,  if  I  recollect  right,  to  keep  it  till  my  Return. 
If  I  hear  nothing  to  the  Contrary,  I  shall  conclude 
that  this  is  still  your  Intention. 

"  Be  so  good  as  to  take  the  Trouble  of  believing, 
that  I  am  perfectly  acquainted  with  the  Politicks  of 
this  Country ;  that  I  am  possessed  of  many  Anecdotes 
about  the  Court,  and  that  nothing  but  extreme 
Discretion  could  have  prevented  me  from  offering 
you  a  great  deal  of  Information  on  these  Subjects. 
But  there  are  other  points,  on  which  I  may  venture 
to  speak  without  Reserve.  This  Town  is  full  of  some 


396  Ube  jfrancte  ^Letters  [1791 

Disaster  which  they  say  has  befallen  Lord  Cornwallis, 
and  they  are  in  great  anxiety  about  the  fate  of  their 
Settlement  at  St.  Domingo.  It  happens  oddly  that 
each  of  the  two  Nations  hears  of  its  own  Misfortune 
by  the  channel  of  the  other.  There  are  Multitudes  of 
English  at  Paris.  Lord  &  Lady  Cholmondeley  are 
to  stay  the  Winter  and  I  should  think  it  cannot  be 
long  before  the  arrival  of  Lord  Malpas — Selon  toutes 
les  Apparences  il  ne  fera  pas  un  mauvais  pas.  The 
Dutchess  of  Devonshire  and  Lady  Duncannon  are 
expected  here  to-day.  There  are  twice  as  many 
public  places  open  as  the  Town  can  support,  and 
not  a  Louis  a"or  to  be  seen,  except  at  a  Game  Table. 
Under  the  shelter  of  all  this  interesting  Intelligence, 
allow  me  to  add  one  Article  in  which  Nobody  is 
concerned  but  myself,  that  I  am  and  think  it  an 
honour  to  be 

"  Madam, 

"  Your  most  obedient 

"  humble  Servant 

"  P.  FRANCIS. 

"  P.S.  If  you  should  have  any  Commands  for  me, 
Monsieur  Pirregaux  will  convey  them  to  me." 

Mary  Francis,  then  twenty-two  years  old,  Francis's 
fourth  daughter,  was  married  in  March,  1792,  to  Mr. 
Godschall  Johnson,  of  Putney,  a  widower  who  had 
two  sons  and  two  daughters  :  Godschall,  Ralph,  Eliza, 
and  Emily. 

The  daughter  Eliza  afterwards  (in  1805)  became 
the  wife  of  Mary's  brother  Philip. 


1792]  TOe  ffrancte  betters  397 

Mr.  G.  Johnson  the  elder  (Mary's  husband)  was  a 
very  handsome  man,  and  was  always  called  the  Beau 
by  his  father-in-law. 

Francis  writes  to  Lady  Palmerston  on  the  occasion 
of  his  daughter's  marriage. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  VISCOUNTESS  PALMERSTON. 

"ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"  loth  March,  1792. 

"  DEAR  MADAM, 

"  If  you  were  but  half  as  well  accustomed  to 
receive  Favors,  as  you  are  to  confer  them,  you  would 
accept  of  the  enclosed  [a  favour],  as  I  am  sure 
you  will  wear  it,  with  a  better  Grace  than  any  Lady 
of  your  Acquaintance ; — tho'  very  much  tempted,  I 
dare  not  say  of  mine.  After  providing  for  your 
Appearance,  you  will  see  that  I  have  not  neglected 
a  more  substantial  Consideration  [bride  cake].  The 
Beauty  that  is  adorned,  must  be  supported.  Eat 
freely,  dear  Madam,  and  remember,  while  you  are 
eating,  that  I  do  not  confine  myself  to  empty  Praise, 
when  I  assure  you  I  am,  with  as  much  Admiration 
as  I  can  spare,  as  well  as  with  all  possible  Attachment, 
11  Your  most  dutiful  servant, 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON,  AFTER  HER 
MARRIAGE. 

"  ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
'•''March  \2th,  1792. 

"  DEAR  MARY, 

"  Here  I  am  at  Haylets  the  Painter.     Eliza- 
beth is  sitting  for  her  Picture  and  I   think  it  a  good 


398  TTbe  jfrancis  betters  [1792 

opportunity  of  writing  to  you — first  I  think  it  natural 
to  speak  of  Saturday  in  speaking  my  own  sentiments 
I  believe  I  shall  include  the  good  opinion  of  those 
you  most  wish  should  think  well  of  you — You  behaved 
exactly  as  we  all  wished,  and  my  Father  in  particular 
approved  it.  My  father  and  Elizabeth  dined  at 
Cholmondeley's — a  very  pleasant  dinner  and  she 
stayed  the  evening.  I  went  to  the  Concert  with 
Mrs.  Webb,  it  was  a  beautiful  selection  and  I  was  very 
much  entertained— by  the  way  I  shall  send  you  on 
Friday  '  Nel  cor  piu  non.'  I  never  saw  anything  so 
affected  as  Philip,  after  dinner  there  came  an  Organ 
into  the  square  and  played  some  charming  Tunes  he 
again  Burst  into  a  flood  of  Tears,  and  his  Eyes  were 
so  swelled  that  I  feared  he  would  not  be  fit  to  go  to 
the  Concert.  Yesterday  was  spent  literally  in  receiving 
congratulations.  Everybody  came  instead  of  sending 
Cards  and  our  party  in  the  evening  pretty  numerous— 
In  the  course  of  the  day  we  saw  Culverdens,  Drakes, 
Thomson,  Stanley  (you  see  I  am  partial  to  the  Flats] 
Palmerstons,  Wakes,  Taylors,  Godfreys,  Hatfield 
(whom  I  was  particularly  happy  to  see)  Lady  Payne, 
Keith  Elphinstone,  Angersteins,  Mrs.  Nesbit,  Hay, 
Eden,  Archdekin,  Inchiquin,  Sloane,  Elliott,  Windham, 
Cholmondeley,  Maddocks,  in  short  almost  everybody 
whom  you  like — nothing  could  be  more  kind  and  civil 
than  they  were  in  general.  My  Father  dined  at  the 
Speaker's  where  amongst  others  he  met  Michael 
Taylor  x  who  being  dissatisfied  with  the  dinner  enter- 
tained us  for  half  an  hour  with  his  objections  to  it  and 

1  Michael    Angelo    Taylor,    a    well-known    Amphitryon    and   a 
friend  of  most  of  the  leading  Whigs. 


1792]  TTbe  if rands  Xetters  399 

ended  by  saying  he  should  not  go  any  more,  it  was  a 
sort  of  thing  he  could  not  submit  to — you  never  heard 
such  Pompous  Nonsense.  Lady  Palmerston  had  on 
your  Favour.  .  .  .  You  will  see  by  the  paper  that 
Bedine  Wynn  was  married  on  Saturday  to  Lord 
Percival,  Lord  Egmont's  son.  .  .  .  ' 


SARAH  FRANCIS  TO  HER  SISTER  MRS.  JOHNSON,  TO 
WHOM  SHE  HAD  BEEN  PAYING  A  VlSIT  AFTER 
THE  MARRIAGE  OF  THE  LATTER. 

"ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"Sunday  noon  [1792]. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"...  I  think  you  fortunate  indeed,  and 
this  opinion  includes  not  only  that  of  all  here,  but  of 
all  who  know  him,  the  latter  tho'  not  necessary  to 
your  happiness,  is  yet  a  very  grateful  and  flattering 
encomium  on  your  judgment  and  discernment ;  no  one, 
is  perfect  but  he  has  fewer  weaknesses  (for  failings  he 
has  none)  than  almost  any  man,  and  above  all  he 
possesses  in  a  very  superior  degree  that  affectionate 
consideration  which  is  essential  to  all  in  the  like 
situation,  but  doubly  so  to  you  whose  health  and 
welfare  depend  upon  it.  ... 

"  Monday.  I  have  now  but  little  to  add,  Mr.  F. 
went  to  dine  with  his  Love  yesterday,  and  will  remain 
either  there,  or  at  Isle  worth  till  to-morrow;  he  is 
quite  recovered,  but  I  seriously  believe  prefers 
Johnson  to  you  and  what  will  not  surprise  you, 
knowing  his  great  predilection  for  extreme  youth  and 
beauty,  Emily  to  either. 

"  We  were  quite  alone  last  night,   Mr.   and  Mrs. 


4oo  ^be  jfrancts  Xetters  [1792 

Cholmondeley  excepted  who  were  with  us  the  chief 
of  the  evening  ;  he  was  as  absurd  and  as  delightful  as 
ever,  and  his  Wife  strange  to  say  quite  animated  and 
agreeable,  well  dressed  and  looking  in  great  beauty.  .  .  . 
"  Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

"  SARAH  FRANCIS." 

Philip  Francis,  the  younger,  writes  to  his  mother  from 
Rouen  where  he  had  gone  to  study  French  : — 

"  ROUEN, 
"Tuesday  the  $ist,  July,  1792. 

*'  DEAR  MRS.  FRANCIS, 

"  Taking  it  for  granted  that  Mr.  Francis 
received  my  letter  dated  Dieppe  I  resume  my 
journal.  .  .  . 

"  So  far  my  journal,  now  for  some  cursory  and 
miscellaneous  remarks.  It  happens  by  chance  that 
we  are  come  to  the  most  tranquil,  and  indeed  the  only 
secure  town  in  France.  But  this  material  circum- 
stance draws  with  it  a  great  Inconvenience — viz.  that 
the  place  is  crowded  with  people.  The  Inhabitants 
of  the  Province  are  collected  in  the  Capital.  I  am 
told  that  there  are  30,000  extraordinary  heads  here. 
Lodgings  are  not  to  be  had  for  love  or  money — and  it 
was  by  the  merest  good  luck  we  got  a  Room  in  an 
Inn.  The  Price  of  every  Article  of  Provision,  Con- 
venience, or  Luxury  is  nearly  trebled — and  by  the 
present  rate  of  Exchange  a  Pound  Sterling  English 
money  is  worth  only  40  livres  in  Assignats.  With 
respect  to  Politicks — aristocratic  Principles  prevail 
here — but  people  of  all  parties  and  ways  of  thinking 


1792]  Ube  Brands  Xettets  .  401 

(by  the  by,  no  two  persons  are  of  the  same  way  of 
thinking  on  the  subject  of  Government ;  here  every 
one  has  a  system  of  his  own)  are  dissatisfied,  as  they 
well  may  be  with  the  present  situation  of  Affairs.  All 
parties  blame  the  present  proceedings  of  the  National 
Assembly  more  or  less — that  they  have  repeatedly 
invaded  and  broken  in  upon  the  Constitution,  every 
body  seems  to  allow — and  notwithstanding  the  ardent 
courage  which  is  displayed  on  all  sides  for  the  defence 
of  the  Constitution,  it  is  universally  believed  that  its 
total  destruction,  resistance  being  determined  upon,  is 
at  hand.  Perhaps  the  parties  will  at  last  come  to 
terms — but  despair  only,  and  the  most  desperate 
Slaughter  will  force  the  Constitutionalists  to  Sub- 
mission. The  Armament  of  England  has  caused  great 
anxiety,  and  people  are  perpetually  enquiring  of  us 
(as  if  it  were  the  discretionary  act  of  the  English 
nation)  what  the  intent  of  it  is.  The  Environs  of  this 
Town  are  beautiful,  it  is  in  a  very  fine  situation,  and 
the  Air  is  healthy — I  am  charmed  with  the  french 
women,  their  manners  are  infinitely  engaging,  and 
with  respect  to  beauty  I  confess  fairly  that  I  never  in  any 
one  day  in  London  have  seen  as  many  pretty  women, 
as  I  have  seen  in  one  morning  here — I  am  in  perfect 
health,  and  am  growing  fat  upon  french  food  (which  is 
excellent)  apace.  We  have  very  few  English  here, 
none  luckily  that  we  have  the  smallest  acquaintance 
with.  Townshend  not  being  very  well  satisfied  either 
with  the  situation,  or  the  sort  of  life,  has  some  thoughts 
of  quitting  me,  and  seeking  his  brother,  who  is  about 
to  travel  into  Switzerland.  If  I  am  allowed  to  remain 
here  two  months  I  shall  be  perfect  master  of  the  french 


402  ZTbe  jfrancte  betters  [1792 

language.      I   am  going  to  learn    it   again   regularly. 
Adieu.  .  .  . 

"  Your  most  affectionate  and  dutiful  Son 

"  P.  FRANCIS. 

"If  anyone  is  as  good  as  to  write  to  me  I  would 
thank  Mr.  Francis  for  a  line  in  the  letter  on  the 
subject  of  this  Armament  of  Mr.  Pitt." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  WIFE. 

"8M  August,  1792. 

11  DEAR  MRS.  F., 

"  I  return  you  Philip's  Letter,  which  you 
received  this  Morning.  For  the  future  you  may 
open  any  that  appear  to  be  directed  in  his  hand.  I 
believe  I  shall  be  able  to  write  to  him  directly  from 
Southampton.  We  dined  yesterday  at  Mrs.  Dance's. 
The  Place  beautiful,  the  House  magnificent,  &  the 
Stile  altogether  entirely  noble.  Pray  order  the  Doctor, 
alias  Paul  Richardson  Esqr.  to  write  to  me  very 
much  at  large  on  the  following  Topics.  France,  & 
the  Invasion. — Poland  ; — the  Subscription  and  my 
Speech  ; — with  all  manner  of  domestic  Intelligence 
&  politics.  Lord  Malmesbury  left  us  last  night,  to 
return  in  a  few  days.  Sir  Harry  Englefield  is  ex- 
pected to-day.  Nothing  can  equal  the  good  living 
of  this  place  except  the  good  humour  of  the  natives. 
We  are  meditating  an  Expedition  to  the  Isle  of 
Wight.  Poor  Mrs.  Cull  seems  very  low  and  dispirited. 
I  pray  you  to  be  very  kind  to  her  &  Doll  likewise. 
These  worthy  persons  seem  to  have  no  intention  of 
parting  with  us  ;  and,  in  effect,  I  think  I  find  myself 
extremely  at  my  ease.  We  catch  Salmon,  Jack,  and 


1792]  ttbe  jfrancis  Xetters  403 

Eels  every  night,  and  eat  them  alive  next  day.  One 
night  we  seized  a  Jack  that  weighed  twelve  pounds, 
and  I  have  been  twice  swimming  vigorously  at  South- 
ampton. And  so  dear  Madam,  with  my  Cordialities 
to  Doll,  I  remain  yours  indelibly,  tt  p  p  „ 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  JOHN  BRISTOW. 

"  ST.    JAMES'S    SQUARE, 
-DEAR    BRISTOW,  »™t  February,  1793. 

"  You  have  so  much  reason  of  your  side, 
and  have  put  me  so  completely  in  the  wrong  that 
you  ought  to  be  in  perfect  good  Humour  not  only 
with  yourself  but  with  me  ;  for,  if  I  had  not  behaved 
wretchedly  in  not  writing  to  you,  as  God  knows  I 
ought  to  have  done  long  ago,  you  would  have  lost 
all  the  advantages  of  a  meritorious  Conduct  com- 
pared with  mine  which  I  shall  not  attempt,  because 
I  do  not  know  how,  to  Excuse.  I  pray  you  never- 
theless to  have  Patience  with  me  a  little  longer ; 
as  I  am  sure  you  would  if  you  saw  what  sort  of  a 
Life  I  am  condemned  to  lead.  These  latter  Ships 
shall  not  depart,  I  promise  you,  without  such  a  Letter 
from  me  as  shall  not  only  pacify,  but  surprise  you. 
In  the  mean  time,  consider  the  inclosed  Letter  to 
Collings  as  written  to  yourself,  only  forward  it,  when 
you  have  read  it.  It  is  said,  that  an  Express  has 
been  sent  to  Lord  Cornwallis  to  request  him  to 
stay  in  India,  how  true  I  know  not.  In  truth  I 
know  nothing,  or  next  to  nothing,  of  India  affairs. 
All  that  I  can  pick  up  you  shall  have  in  detail. 
Yours  very  sincerely  and  also  with  some  Humility, 

"  P.  F. 


4o4  Ebe  jfrancis  Xettets  [1793 

"  I  am  finally  convinced  that  none  of  the  parties 
concerned  in  this  Everlasting  Trial  have  the  remotest 
Chance  of  living  to  see  the  end  of  it. 

"  When  I  began  this  Letter  a  War  with  France 
was  only  in  posse  now  it  is  in  esse  ;  that  is  we  are 
going  to  be  tried  for  our  Lives,  so  God  send  us 
a  good  Deliverance.  Two  nights  ago,  I  was  one 
of  forty-six  against  two  or  three  hundred  who  I 
suppose  thought  it  a  very  proper  Thing  that  the 
High  Contracting  Parties  should  settle  a  Plan  of 
internal  Government  for  France.  They  refused  to 
bind  themselves  not  to  do  it,  which,  in  parliamentary 
Construction  is  pretty  much  the  same  Thing.  If 
that  be  the  Object,  and  if  we  adhere  to  it,  it  is 
possible  there  may  be  a  final  Pacification  in  the  course 
of  the  next  Century.  But  what  are  all  these  trouble- 
some Transactions  to  you  who  live,  like  the  Gods 
of  Epicurus,  at  too  great  a  distance  from  us 
Mortals  to  be  affected  by  any  Thing  that  either 
pleases  or  afflicts  us  ? — I  do  in  my  Conscience  be- 
lieve that  you  are  better  where  you  are  than  you 
could  be  in  England.  You  may  live  in  India  with- 
out Care,  which  I  defy  you  or  any  body  else  to  do 
in  this  Country,  farewell." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EDWARD  TILGHMAN, 
PHILADELPHIA. 

"  LONDON, 
"April  vjth,  1793. 

"  DEAR  SIR, 

"  This  letter  of  introduction  will  be,  I  hope 
ere  long  delivered  to  you  by  one,  who  is  to  be 
accompanied  by  another,  of  my  oldest  and  most 


1793]  ^be  jfrancte  Xetters  405 

intimate  friends.  The  first  is  Mr.  David  Godfrey, 
the  second  Mr.  James  Archdekin,  and  they  were 
both  of  them  closely  and  cordially  united  with  our 
dear  and  ever  to  be  lamented  Richard  Tilghman. 
They  are  literally  going  to  look  at  America  for  a 
few  weeks,  and  by  no  means  to  seek  their  fortune 
there.  They  look  forward  to  emergencies  on  this 
side  of  the  Atlantic  which  may  possibly  determine 
them  to  provide  a  retreat  on  the  other.  Such 
thoughts  rarely  enter  into  the  minds  of  wealthy 
men,  unless  their  minds  are  above  their  fortune. 
But  to  themselves  I  leave  it  to  explain  to  you 
their  motives,  views,  and  projects  in  this  expedition. 
I  pray  you  to  show  them  attention  for  my  sake, 
and  I  recommend  it  to  you  to  cultivate  their  friend- 
ship for  your  own. 

"  Be  so  kind  as  to  inform  Mr.  Godfrey  exactly 
of  the  flourishing  state  of  my  acres  in  Pennsylvania, 
and  give  him  a  well-argued  opinion  on  the  question 
of  keeping  or  selling  them  ;  I  do  not  think  I  shall 
ever  be  able,  though  marvellously  disposed,  to 
cultivate  them  with  my  own  hands. 

"  And  so,  citizen  farewell. 

"P.  FRANCIS." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  MARGATE, 
"Monday,  2ist  October,  1793. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

" .  .  .  As  I  believe  you  never  were  at 
Margate,  it  cannot  be  interesting  to  you  (otherwise 
than  as  I  tell  you  it  is  the  best  situation)  that  our 
House  is  in  the  Church  Field,  it  is  immediately 

VOL.  ii.  5 


406  tlbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1793 

opposite  to  the  principal  Library  which  besides  being 
a  very  good  collection  of  Books  is  the  fashionable 
Lounge  every  morning  from  12  to  4.  The  Bathing, 
though  I  am  unwilling  to  admit  that  this  Place  is 
better  in  any  respect  than  Brighton  is  certainly  not 
only  to  be  prefer'd,  but  is  as  fine  as  possible,  and 
we  have  bathed  constantly — which  together  with 
Elizabeth's  having  rode  on  Horseback  I  hope  will 
compleat  her  cure.  The  Bretons  have  a  charming 
House — about  4  miles  from  hence,  close  to  the  sea, 
it  is  a  place  of  all  others  that  I  should  like  to  call  mine 
—  Laura  is  not  altered  much  in  her  face  but  is  grown 
too  fat.  She  enquired  very  kindly  after  her  friend 
Mary — for  she  allotted  Mrs.  Webb  to  Catherine. 
Lavinia  is  a  very  elegant  pretty  girl  and  much  admired 
by  everybody — Eliza  is  too  young  to  say  what  she  will 
turn  out  except  very  tall  and  fair — the  eldest  plays 
extremely  well  on  the  Harp.  .  .  .  Philip  was  with 
them  6  weeks  and  everybody  says  that  he  was  deeply 
smitten  with  Lavinia.  I  did  not  discover  it,  his  is 
a  flexible  heart,  and  I  never  saw  it  insensible  to 
Beauty, — the  Erskines  have  been  at  Ramsgate,  we 
dined  with  them  one  day  and  went  to  the  Ball  at 
Night.  The  Duchess  of  Rutland  is  there  and  all 
her  family.  She  is  greatly  altered  for  the  worse, 
and  her  Daughter  never  will  be  as  handsome  as  she 
has  been  ...  the  Chevaliere  D'Eon  is  here,  we  were 
at  the  Play  on  Saturday,  when  she  fenced  with  a 
french  Emigrt,  she  was  an  over-match  for  him,  but 
it  was  far  from  an  interesting  or  pleasing  sight  to  me. 
She  is  so  poor  that  a  Club  of  Gentlemen  here  have 
given  her  20  guineas.  En  grande  Politique  we  have 


1793]  ft  be  ffrancte  ^letters  407 

her  Royal  Highness  the  Duchess  of  Cumberland, 
she  seems  to  live  upon  french  news.  Lady  E. 
Luttrell  lives  with  her  who  made  us  a  visit,  which 
implies  permission  to  wait  upon  her  Highness — this 
we  did  and  found  them  at  their  Breakfast,  she  is  very 
affable  and  well  bred,  and  we  sat  with  her  near  2 
hours.  She  comes  to  the  Library  every  day  at  the 
same  hour  where  she  talks  french  Politicks  incessantly 
— it  is  a  cruel  thing  that  she  should  not  have  a  greater 
income,  but  the  Dignity  and  Propriety  of  her  behaviour 
seems  to  secure  her  as  much  attention  and  Respect 
as  any  fortune  could  do.  There  are  many  pretty 
women  here  particularly  a  Miss  Estwick,  who  is  going 
to  be  married  to  a  younger  son  of  Sir  Harry  Bridge- 
man,  but  one  of  the  ladies  I  most  admire  is  a  Miss 
Manners,  daughter  of  Genl.  Manners.  She  likewise 
is  soon  to  be  married  to  a  Mr.  Sneyd  ...  he 
gave  a  very  elegant  supper  at  the  Rooms  last 
night  to  which  he  invited  us.  ...  Sir  Horace 
Mann1  is  living  here  en  Grand  Seigneur.  My  father 
has  dined  with  him  several  times,  and  last  Thursday 
Elizabeth  and  I  were  of  the  Party.  Elizabeth  is  gone 
to  the  Ball  with  Miss  Mann  tonight  from  which  you 
will  infer  that  she  is  gayer  than  I.  ...  I  had  nearly 
forgotten  to  congratulate  you  upon  the  Embassy  to 
Toulon — if  our  adherents  continue  to  drop  off  in  the 
same  easy  manner  they  have  done  lately,  the  Opposition 
will  be  something  less  than  select ;  a  chosen  few  &c., 
&c.  Some  people  talk  here  very  seriously  of  a  french 
invasion  in  the  dark  nights,  while  others  laugh  at  it, 
but  perhaps  it  is  hard  to  say  what  a  desperate  and 
1  Walpole's  correspondent. 


408  Ube  jfrancte  betters  [1793 

enraged  people  will  not  do,  granting  that  we  have  a 
force  to  oppose  them  I  should  not  like  it  to  be  brought 
to  such  a  question.  Mr.  Breton  who  is  not  more 
easily  alarmed  than  people  in  general  thinks  such  a 
report  a  very  good  reason  for  removing  his  family 
to  Town  earlier  than  he  would  otherwise  have  done. 
.  .  .  Believe  me,  my  dear  Mary, 

"  Most  affectionately  yours, 

"H.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTER  ELIZABETH. 

"  THORNHILL,  l 
"nth  January,  1794- 

"My  DEAR  ELIZABETH, 

11  The  postman,  who  brought  me  your  first 
Letter  yesterday  Morning,  ran  away  before  I  could 
add  a  Line,  to  acknowledge  it,  in  that  which  I  wrote 
to  your  Mother.  The  news  is  interesting  indeed,  and 
you  may  judge  of  the  Anxiety  and  Impatience  with 
which  we  are  expecting  more  of  it.  Every  day 
between  3  and  4,  if  you  can,  pick  up  any  Thing  that  is 
not  in  the  Morning  paper.  The  post  does  not  come 
in  to-day,  so  we  must  pine  and  languish  till  to-morrow. 
This  day  will  I  write  to  the  first  of  Men,  to  send  me 
the  earliest  political  Intelligence  of  every  post.  The 
Life  here  is  very  comfortable  and  very  uniform,  plenty 
of  Stuffing,  excellent  beds,  and  everlasting  Fires. 
Those  cursed  Gallants  will  not  come  till  Sunday.  The 
Frost  is  intense,  but  accompanied  with  brilliant  sun 
&  a  clear  sky.  Finer  winter  Weather  cannot  be 
imagined.  The  little  Cadeaux  I  brought  with  me 
were  kindly  received.  Mrs.  Cree  is  as  good-humoured 
1  Residence  of  Mr.  Cree,  a  friend  of  the  family. 


1794]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  409 

&  agreeable  as  possible.  Upon  the  whole  our  State 
of  Existence  is  much  to  my  satisfaction.  Mr.  Cree 
has  put  me  into  possession  of  a  piece  of  plain  Muslin 
for  you,  which,  I  believe,  for  Beauty  and  Value,  is 
not  to  be  surpassed.  So,  I  suppose,  my  Return  will 
not  be  a  very  unwelcome  Event  in  the  Square. 

"Whenever  you  see  G.  I.  or  his  Rib,  set  the  pump 
to  work.  Apropos  ; — the  Water  here  is  as  bright  as 
the  Eyes  of  Lady  Jane  ; — but  for  Taste  so  diabolical, 
that  I  cannot  even  bear  it  in  the  Tea.  So  I  breakfast 
on  Milk. 

"  Tell  Harriet,  when  she  writes,  to  be  as  minute  as 
Miss  Byron.  My  hearty  good  will  to  her  &  Sarah, 
and  Catharine  &  Mawmaw.  Mrs.  Cree  says  her  heart 
is  broken  by  your  barbarity  in  not  coming  with  us. 
All  she  can  do  is  to  live  till  Spring. 

"  My  dear  Grimalkin,  I  can  write  no  more. 

«  P.  F." 

The  five  following  letters,  written  in  March,  1795, 
from  Francis,  are  dated  from  Bath,  where  he  had 
gone  for  his  health. 

Francis  had  invented  pet  names  for  all  his  family. 
Elizabeth  he  was  fond  of  calling  "  the  Fat  Cat,"  Harriet 
was  "  Doll,"  his  daughter-in-law  Eliza  "  Elysium," 
his  wife,  as  we  have  seen  in  his  early  letters,  he  often 
addressed  as  his  "  dearest  Honesty." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTERS. 

"  BATH, 

"  Thursday,  ^th  March^  1795. 
"  MOST    DEAR    LITTLE    CHILDREN, 

"  Since  writing  that  long   Letter   to    Town 
this  Morning,  I  have  got  two  Newspapers,  and  Tom's 


4io  TTbe  ffrancis  Xetters  [1795 

Letter.  To-day  the  Weather  begins  to  feel  &  look 
like  Spring,  &  I  have  just  now  had  200  Strokes  of  the 
pump,  &  I  believe  it  will  answer.  Tell  me  precisely 
what  has  happened  to  the  beautiful  face  of  Mrs. 
Tickel.  I  am  much  more  interested  about  her  than 
the  Ministry.  Damn  the  Domestics,  I  mean  the 
Servants.  Please  heaven,  they  shall  know  who  is 
Master. 

'  Et  dans  quelque  retraite  que  le  del  Feut  fait  naitre, 
Le  monde,  en  le  voyant,  eut  reconnu  son  maitre? 

Pray  tell  me  how  Breton  goes  on.  Right  sorry 
should  I  be  for  him. 

"  Yours  &  the  boy's  &  the  Kits. 

"P.  F. 

"  Much  obliged  to  your  Maw  Maw  for  her  kind 
Letter." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTER  CATHERINE,  WHEN 
SHE  WAS  ON  A  VlSIT  AT  BROADLANDS. 

"  BATH, 
"  II  March,  1795. 

"  Why  my  dear  little  Child,  did  they  send  you  to 
that  strange  place,  all  alone  and  quite  by  yourself. 
Indeed  you  are  much  too  young  to  be  trusted  so  far 
from  home  without  some  grave  person  to  look  after 
you.  Je  vous  prie  de  faire  ma  paix  avec  Mr.  D. 
Cest  un  forte  honnete  homme  quoiquun  pen  epais.  II 
ne  brille  pas  dans  la  conversation,  mais  il  a  du  Solide. 

"  My  arm  I  think  is  somewhat  more  manageable 
than  it  was  ;  but  I  am  afraid  I  shall  not  recover  the 
perfect  use  of  it  for  a  long  time.  En  attendant  I  am 
as  weary  of  my  Life  as  anybody  ought  to  be  who 


1795]  ^be  ffrancte  Xetters  4" 

lives  in  a  State  of  Separation  from  his  beautiful 
Spouse.  How  does  Lord  P.  bear  it?  Her  Ladyship 
talks  of  sending  for  his  Lordship  and  all  their  children. 

"  I  rejoice  to  hear  of  poor  dear  Sally's  amendment, 
why  can't  we  all  be  well  together  !  I  expect  to  hear 
from  Mary  and  Harriet  this  day ;  but  the  post  comes 
in  so  late  that  I  must  close  this  before  I  receive 
their  letters.  Ah  !  mon  pauvre  Beau  !  que  je  vous 
plains !  Que  diable  est  devenu  Mr.  Uamson.  The 
Baron  [Rosenhagen]  has  got  four  deputations  of 
Chaplains  to  as  many  Regiments  and  no  other  duty 
demanded  of  him  but  to  get  drunk  every  day  with 
each  commanding  officer  in  his  turn,  and  that  he 
swears  he  shall  religiously  perform  ;  amidst  all  these 
honours  so  unexpectedly  heaped  on  neglected  merit, 
I  should  think  it  will  be  difficult  for  him  to  preserve 
that  rigorous  Incognito,  which  has  hitherto  secluded 
him  from  an  inquiring  world. 

"  My  duty  to  your  Mother, 

"  and  so  I  kiss  the  Paws  of  all  the  Cats  addio. 

«  p    p  " 


PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HARRIET  FRANCIS. 

"BATH, 

"  12  March,  1795. 

"  Why,  my  own  dear  Harriet,  I  had  no  reason  for 
stinting  myself  in  paper,  but  to  lay  up  a  Fortune 
for  you  and  the  little  children.  But  since  you  dis- 
approve of  so  much  parsimony  I  give  all  my  savings 
to  the  winds.  I  am  very  much  indebted  to  worthy 
Mary  for  her  kind  Letter  and  should  be  very  glad 
to  answer  it,  if  I  knew  what  to  say.  The  man,  they 


412  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  [1795 

have  used  worst  is  the  only  honest  man  among  them 
and  he  deserves  it  richly.  I  wish  he  knew  as  well 
as  I  do  with  what  scorn  and  mockery  he  is  spoken 
of  by  the  Royalists,  L.  P.  confesses  she  always  thought 
him  a  very  weak  man.  What  will  become  of  him 
now  ?  I  desire  the  fat  Cat  will  tell  me  everything 
she  hears  about  him  and  all  manner  of  Politics.  I  am 
indeed  very  sorry  for  the  dear  Beau  as  also  for  my 
own  shoulder,  which  is  much  better  in  point  of  motion 
but  devilish  painful.  My  complimental  affections  wait 
on  your  Mother  and  Sally  and  all  of  you.  Mr. 
Canning  has  written  to  somebody  in  this  place  that 
Lord  Fitzwilliam's  conduct  in  Ireland  is  just  as  absurd 
as  if  Mrs.  Siddons  being  engaged  for  a  whole  season 
should  play  all  her  parts  in  the  first  three  nights. 
Let  that  be  known  but  not  from  me. 

"  How  do  the  Duke  of  Portland  and  Earl  Spencer 
take  it? 

"  Yours  ;  nay  yours, 

"P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZABETH  FRANCIS. 

11  BATH, 
41  \$th  March,  1795. 

MY  OWN  DEAR  ELIZABETH, 

"  I  have  received  both  your  kind  Letters 
in  due  order  ;  and  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  I  wrote 
to  you  in  person  on  Friday  last.  All  that  night  it 
snowed  furiously,  and  the  weather  was  so  bad  yester- 
day that  I  could  not  go  down  to  the  pump,  which 
is  nearly  a  mile  from  my  dwelling.  I  am  deeply 
concerned  for  poor  Johnson  ;  for  many  reasons ;  but 
particularly  because  the  more  I  know  him  the  more 


1795]  OTe  dfrancfs  Xetters  413 

I  value  him.  I  cannot  say  quite  as  much  of  some 
of  your  political  connexions.  But  we  must  take  this 
dirty  world  as  we  find  it,  and  keep  ourselves  as  clear 
from  contamination  as  we  can.  It  is  a  nation  of 
scoundrels,  and  not  worth  the  smallest  Sacrifice. 
Some  of  your  friends  have  found  that  Truth  by 
Instinct,  long  before  I  did  by  experience.  Keep 
your  thoughts  to  yourself,  and  let  us  endeavour  to 
pass  through  Life  as  quietly  and  as  merrily  as  we 
can.  Few  Individuals  have  so  many  resources  as 
we  have.  Of  this  place  I  can  only  say  that  the 
Greeks  have  used  me  tolerably  well,  and  that  Mrs. 
Mullins  is  to  be  speedily  divorced.  So  says  my 
quondam  or  rather  grandam  friend  Mrs.  C.  I  have 
not  had  a  hearty  meal  since  my  arrival  except  Sunday 
last  when  I  dined  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Walsh.  My 
love  to  the  heiress.  I  do  not  know  that  wealth 
could  fall  into  better  hands.  How  does  she  bear 
it  ?  Kind  love  and  many  thanks  to  worthy  Mary. 
Take  special  care  of  Johnson  for  me. 

"  Yours  dear  puss, 

«  p    p  " 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  BATH, 
"$\st  March,  1795. 

"  MY    DEAR  PRETTY    PuSS,  MY  OWN  DEAR  GRIMALKIN, 

"  Have  you  left  off  purring  for  good,  or 
have  you  lost  the  use  of  your  forepaw  for  evil  ?  or  is 
your  back  up  at  anything  ?  or  has  anybody  affronted 
you,  and  now  I  am  gone  will  nobody  scratch  your  head 
and  stroke  you  ?  Miaow,  Miaow  ...  is  that  all !  poor 
pussy,  come  lap  up  this  cream  and  wipe  your  fair 


414  ^be  ffrancis  ^Letters  [1795 

round  face  with   your  velvet    forefoot,    and    keep    in 
your  claws. 

"  What  do  you  think  ?  I  went  last  night  to  a 
concert,  and  whom  should  I  meet  but  my  cidevant 
flame  Lil  ?  remember  I  tell  you,  I  never  will  do 
so  any  more,  a  painted  skeleton  by  all  that's  ugly, 
passte,  fante,  flttrie  et  delabrte — but  wonderfully 
kind  and  almost  flattering,  so  it's  my  turn  now. 
Then  came  C.,  followed  by  her  stupid  spouse  who 
is  really  a  person  of  some  moment  in  his  own  con- 
templation. Then  came  a  Lady  of  a  certain  age 
with  a  fieri  facias  (ask  Philip)  '  I  fancy  sir  you  don't 
know  me.'  '  Plead  you  to  me  fair  dame  ? '  *  Sir, 
I  am  Mrs.  L.'  '  The  Devil  you  are  ! '  and  then  she 
was  very  kind  to  me  and  was  at  home  every  Tuesday 
and  I  promised  to  take  the  first  opportunity,  which 
I  did,  and  left  her.  A  quondam  Governor  paid  me 
a  visit  or  rather  left  his  name  soon  after  my  arrival, 
but  I  never  returned  it  and  would  not  speak  to  the 
fellow  when  I  met  him,  and  then  you  might  have 
seen  a  true  picture  of  mortification  before  death — in 
short  I  am  grown  as  proud  as  the  Devil  and  shall 
hardly  know  any  of  you  when  I  return.  Will  you 
tell  me  how  my  Bo  goes  on,  and  have  you  taken 
care  of  him  as  I  bid  you  ?  I  am  always  in  some 
pain,  but  my  arm  is  more  at  command  and  I  believe 
I  shall  recover.  This  is  the  cursedest  pen  that  ever 
man  was  blest  with  as  Johnson  says  of  his  spouse. 
Indeed  dear  Kate  it  was  very  unkind  of  you  to  fall 
sick  the  moment  I  left  you.  Will  you  take  the 
trouble  to  dash  my  respects  at  the  feet,  I  mean  the 
forefeet,  of  Mrs.  Webb,  and  tell  her  that  I  never 


1795]  ft  be  Jf  rands  Xetters  415 

cease  hoping  for  the  day  when  she  and  I  shall  rule 
the  roast  at  Roehampton.  Who  can  say  more  ?  Yes, 
I  can.  My  duty  to  your  Maw-maw." 

Year  after  year  we  find  Francis  working  hard  to 
secure  a  suitable  house  for  the  season  for  his  wife 
and  daughters  at  Brighton,  that  they  might  share  in 
the  festivities  and  benefit  by  the  sea  air.  This  seems 
to  have  been  a  matter  of  no  small  difficulty,  for  the 
demand  for  furnished  houses  during  the  favourite 
months — then,  as  now,  October  and  November — was 
very  great :  he  writes  to  his  daughter  Elizabeth, 
October  7th,  1795  : — 

"  Believe  me,  it  is  not  my  fault  that  I  cannot  give  you 
any  certain  account  of  a  house.  The  man  with  whom 
I  hoped  to  have  contracted  is  so  exhorbitant  that  I 
cannot  yield  to  his  demand  so  I  pray  you  have  patience 
till  you  hear  from  me  by  tomorrow's  post.  You  shall 
not  be  disappointed  of  a  house  though  I  fear  you  will  in 
every  other  respect.  The  Weather  is  perfectly  fine 
but  I  never  knew  Brighton  so  dull  and  melancholy. 
Not  a  creature  in  the  Rooms,  nor  a  card  to  be  seen." 

Two  days  later  he  writes  : — 

"  I  hope  the  Direction  of  this  letter  will  not  have 
raised  your  hopes.  I  have  none  to  offer  you.  But 
if  you  can  think  of  a  Compensation  of  any  kind 
against  my  return,  you  shall  find  me  more  than 
willing  to  contribute  to  it.  Your  Letter  is  like 
yourself,  fat  and  comely.  I  beg  you  will  make  it 
your  business  to  console  your  Mother  and  Sisters, 
and  keep  up  the  spirits  of  Fanny  and  the  Dog,  The 


4i6  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1795 

two  latter  must  have  hard  Hearts  if  they  could 
part  with  me  with  dry  Eyes.  I  expect  Archdekin 
every  hour,  and  shall  settle  the  match  out  of  hand. 
Questionless  they  were  born  for  one  another ;  if 
haply  he  be  not  too  young  for  her.  It  is  plain  that 
his  age  ought  not  to  be  an  Objection  ;  since  if  he 
were  infinitely  older,  and  within  an  hour  of  his 
decease,  no  prudent  woman  would  refuse  him.  .  .  . 
My  love  to  all  my  relations,  and  so  farewell.  I  kiss 
your  fat  fists  as  a  dutiful  father  should  do. 

"P.  F." 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"Sunday,  Eighteenth  October,  1795. 

"  MY  DEAR  MAMAN, 

"...  The  weather  is  delightful  and  this 
place  as  much  in  favor  with  us  all  as  ever.  Yester- 
day the  Gallants  assembled  at  Mr.  Breton's,  we  joined 
the  party  in  the  evening,  and  played  Cassino  till 
eleven  when  we  always  separate.  Mrs.  Breton  says, 
she  is  sure  if  you  was  here  you  would  become  a 
perfect  Mistress  of  the  Game,  as  it  is  I  hope  you 
do  not  quite  give  it  up,  but  prepare  yourself  to 
encounter  us  on  our  return.  My  Father  is  highly 
delighted  with  this  place  as  he  may  well  be,  for  I 
never  saw  him  appear  to  greater  advantage,  both  as 
to  health  and  spirits.  The  Bretons  come  to  us 
tonight  and  if  you  will  not  think  it  very  wicked 
I  will  tell  you  that  we  mean  to  have  our  game,  the 
same  as  another  day.  Harriet  and  Eliza  have  been 
to  Church  to  hear  Mr.  Hoole  preach  and  returned 
much  gratified.  Sir  Harry  called  here  yesterday  to 


i79s]  tTbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  417 

take  leave,  but  we  did  not  see  him.  .  .  .  The  Bretons 
wish  us  very  much  to  go  to  the  Rooms  to-night 
but  we  oppose  it  for  though  this  place  is  quite  full 
yet  as  people  do  not  mix  but  live  wholly  in  small 
parties  at  their  own  houses  we  think  we  are  much 
merrier  here,  yet  as  they  wish  it  we  may  perhaps 
still  go.  ...  Elizabeth  begs  you  will  tell  Sally  she 
would  be  obliged  to  her  if  there  are  any  letters 
to  be  sent  here  under  cover  to  my  father  to  have 
them  weighed  before  she  sends  them,  as  you  know 
how  particular  Mr.  F.  is  in  that  respect  We  could 
not  have  had  any  friends  here  more  agreeable  to  us 
than  the  Bretons,  I  like  them  better  the  more  I  see 
of  them,  and  they  suit  us  so  well  in  every  respect, 
are  quite  as  fond  of  walking  and  not  less  partial  to  a 
certain  Game.  I  have  the  satisfaction  to  inform  you 
that  Lady  Jersey  was  safely  delivered  of  a  Son  last 
Friday,  to  the  great  joy  of  all  the  family.  This  is  all 
the  news  I  have  to  tell  you,  wherefore  with  best  love 
and  regards  to  you  and  the  dear  Chick  with  many  thanks 
for  her  interesting  letter  I  am,  my  dearest  Maman's 
"  own  Affectionate, 

"  LITTLE  CAT." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  L.  COLLINGS  l  IN  INDIA. 

"  LONDON, 
"  17  th  April,  1796. 
"  MOST   DEAR   AND   WORTHY    COLLINGS, 

"  You  may   safely   take   the   following  pro- 
positions for  granted,  without  farther  debate, 
"i.  I  am  alive  and  so  are  you. 

1  Mr.  Collings  had  an  appointment  in  India.  Collings  and 
Livius  had  lived  in  a  house  outside  Calcutta  with  Francis  and 
Mackrabie  at  the  beginning  of  Francis's  residence  in  India. 


4i8  TTbe  jfrancte  betters  [1796 

"  2.  That  mode  of  existence,  which  you  like  the 
least,  is  the  most  difficult  to  forget. 

"  3.  Every  one  of  your  instructive  Letters,  to  the 
ist  November  1795  inclusive,  has  been  duly  received  ; 
and,  when  I  am  called  upon  to  make  up  my  last 
Account,  they  shall  be  duly  answered. 

"4.  I  have  now  had  the  honour  of  sitting  13  years 
in  a  certain  Assembly,  most  unjustly  charged  with 
not  being  a  true  and  faithful  Representation  of  the 
People.  The  Charge,  I  do  assure  you  is  an  infamous 
calumny.  There  never  was  a  nation  so  correctly 
represented  as  the  English.  The  Cream  is  ^exactly 
the  very  best  of  the  milk. 

"  5.  In  this  School  of  Virtue,  I  have  learned  much, 
and  paid  more.  Let  it  comfort  you  then  to  know 
that  my  Morals  and  my  Fortune  are  equally  im- 
proved, and  that  having  finished  my  Education,  I 
am  preparing  to  travel  into  the  wide  World,  which,  I 
assure  you,  is  all  before  me,  and  just  as  it  was  when  I 
was  first  born,  as  they  say  in  my  Native  country. 

"  6.  Your  ancient  Philosophers  despised  wealth. 
I  do  more.  I  hate  the  rich  cordially. 

"  7.  And  yet,  would  you  believe  it,  I  am  as 
merry  as  a  Beggar  and  care  now  as  little  as  yourself, 
what  happens  to  myself. 

"  8.  If  a  thin  pair  of  Breeches  be  of  any  use 
in  going  through  the  world,  he  who  has  none  is 
still  better  equipped. 

"  9.  For  three  or  four  years  past  Mrs.  Bristow  has 
sworn  to  me,  by  all  her  Gods,  that  she  would  take 
you  and  your  affairs,  under  her  immediate  Patronage 
and  protection.  So  I  saw  her  last  Night  at  the 


1796]  ftbe  JFrancte  Xetters  419 

Opera ;  and  I  think  her  Perjuries  seem  to  agree 
with  her  mightily.  Every  vow  she  breaks  creates 
a  new  Charm  ;  and  there  am  /  such  a  Fool  as  to 
tell  her  so.  So  I  leave  you  to  judge  what  Chance 
you  have  of  her  ever  keeping  her  word  again. 

"  10.  Encouraged  by  my  success  in  my  Care  of 
the  East,  I  have  lately  turned  my  thoughts  to  the 
West;  from  Hindoos  to  Negroes,  from  Betel  to 
Tobacco,  to  Sugar  and  Molasses.  And  Mrs.  Bristow 
says,  "  What  signify  Negroes  ?  aren't  they  black  ? 
and  don't  I  make  a  slave  of  every  man  I  meet  ?  " 

"  Fare  you  better,  Neighbour  Collings.  You  are 
without  Remedy.  So  am  I. 

"  What  can  I  say  more  ?  "  P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  BRISTOW. 
"  HONOURED  MADAM,  "17  April,  1796. 

1 '  To  save  you  Trouble,  I  have  left  the  in- 
closed wide  open  for  your  perusal.  Whether  you  read 
it  or  not,  I  pray  you  to  seal  it  carefully  with  your  own 
pretty  Fist.  Your  Arms  may  be  better  employed. 

"  When  you  have  nothing  else  to  do,  be  so  good 
as  to  squander  some  loose  Thoughts  upon 
"  Your  most  dutiful  Servant, 

"P.  F." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"Sx.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"  MY    DEAR    MARY,  "vindjune,  1796. 

«  .  .  .  My  Mother  and  Elizabeth  remained 
at  Sheen  on  Sunday  Evening  quite  well  and  happy 
and  full  of  Business  I  mean  in  furnishing  the  Blue 
Room.  Catherine  and  I  came  to  Town  after  passing 
a  true  Summer's  Day  and  very  agreeable.  Monday 


420  Ube  jfrancis  betters  [1796 

we  passed  at  Hampstead.  .  .  .  Tuesday  we  were 
much  entertained  at  the  opera  with  the  Revival  of 
the  Deserter  Ballet,  it  is  so  affecting  that  many 
people  cried  at  it.  On  Wednesday  we  went  a 
large  party  Sloanes,  Palmerstons  &c.,  to  visit  the 
Parrot,  it  is  a  most  surprising  Bird.  Col.  O' Kelly 
had  very  politely  provided  Ices  &c.,  and  after  par- 
taking of  them  we  proceeded  to  Weeks  Museum 
which  exhibits  everything  that  is  Beautiful.  My 
father  then  went  to  dinner  at  Holland  House,  no 
other  lady  but  Lady  Holland,  the  prince  and  a  very 
large  party  ;  we  went  to  Ranelagh  which  was  very 
bad  but  we  had  a  pleasant  little  party  and  did 
not  mind  it.  Last  night  we  had  a  large  Party  to 
Vauxhall  but  it  was  thought  a  better  scheme  to 
return  to  sup  at  our  House  which  they  did.  It  is 
a  great  Pity  that  people  will  not  go  there  for  it  is 
still  a  charming  place.  Angersteins,  Mrs.  Boucharett, 
Macmahon,  Ld.  P.,  Mr.  Cholmondeley  and  a  very 
pleasant  evening.  .  .  .  Catherine  and  I  are  finally 
going  to  Sheen  on  Sunday.  I  daresay  you  will  not 
believe  it,  but  Elizabeth  will  return  for  a  few  days. 
My  Father  is  so  much  engaged  that  he  only  says 
he  wishes  that  he  had  time  to  go.  .  .  . 
"  God  bless  you  all. 

"  H.  F.r 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"27//fc  Ocibr.,    1797. 
"  MY    EVER    DEAR    MARY, 

"  .  .  .  Your  Papa  left  Brighton  on  Thursday 
only    H.R.H.    and    him    in   the    Chaise    a    beautiful 


1797]  ^be  jfrancis  Xetters  421 

Carriage  with  four  fine  Horses  going  as  quick  as 
possible  and  3  servants  on  Horseback  followed  by 
another  Carriage  containing  the  Pages.  John  Godfrey 
was  walking  their  road  and  they  overtook  him  who 
gave  us  this  account.  I  hope  you  always  burn  my 
Letters  as  I  should  not  like  any  Person  but  you  who 
are  equally  interested  with  myself  to  suppose  that 
I  mentioned  these  circumstances  from  Vanity,  On 
Saturday  we  dined  and  passed  the  Evening  much  to 
our  satisfaction — they  are  charming,  and  have  been 
the  greatest  pleasure  to  us  at  this  Place.  Yesterday 
[Sunday]  was  a  beautiful  Day,  after  Church  Elizabeth 
drove  out  with  Mr.  Eyre  and  I  took  a  fine  walk  with 
his  Brother  and  Lord  Pfalmerston]  the  latter  then 
mounted  his  Horse,  and  after  a  little  rest  Elizabeth 
and  I  went  out  again  with  Lady  John  Townshend, 
and  staid  out  till  it  was  time  to  Dress.  Lord  P.  dined 
with  us  and  in  the  Evening  he  went  with  us  to  Mrs. 
Sneyd's  where  we  had  a  very  pleasant  Party  and 
supper — we  found  a  letter  from  my  Father  at  night, 
brought  by  some  Gentleman's  Servant  to  Brighton, 
he  is  delighted  with  Pet  worth,  his  Compagnon  de 
Voyage  &c.,  &c.  This  has  been  another  fine  Day 
and  we  are  just  returned  from  a  charming  walk  on  the 
Sands  with  Ld.  and  Lady  John.  I  am  tired  and  cold 
but  having  a  Frank  thought  it  a  pity  to  waste  it.  We 
are  all  going  to  Drink  Tea  with  them  this  evening — 
tomorrow  she  Dines  with  us  and  Ld.  P.  though  we 
have  no  man  servant,  and  in  the  evening  we  are  all 
going  to  Mrs.  Noel's,  Miss  Jenning's  Mother.  Lord 
P.  often  talks  of  our  poor  friend  and  of  you  with  the 
utmost  kindness  and  Respect  for  your  good  Conduct 

VOL.    II.  6 


422  Ube  ffrancte  Xetters  [1797 

— which  in  after  times  my  dear  Mary  will  be  a 
satisfactory  reflexion  to  you.  Remember  that  You 
are  one  of  Us,  and  the  dear  Children  too,  most  most 
dear  to  our  Affections.  The  Fat  Cat  joins  me  in 
love,  and  believe  me  ever  most  truly  Yours, 

"  H.  F." 

Mrs.  Francis  began  to  fail  in  health  about  this  time, 
and  soon  became  a  permanent  invalid,  living  almost 
entirely  in  her  own  rooms,  cards  being  her  chief 
solace. 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"  BRIGHTON^ 
"  October  ^th,  1797. 

"  DEAREST  MAWMAW, 

"  We  had  a  very  good  journey  on  Sunday, 
though  not  an  Expeditious  one  to  this  Place  ;  owing 
to  the  Delay  of  changing  Horses,  which  caused  us 
not  to  arrive  till  some  time  after  five,  which  was  rather 
provoking,  as  we  supposed  Mrs.  Thomson  would  be 
waiting  Dinner  for  us,  we  might  have  spared  ourselves 
this  Anxiety  as  we  found  upon  our  arrival  that  she 
had  dined  at  3  o'clock,  and  was  taking  her  afternoon's 
Walk.  We  had  some  Mutton  Chops  and  Cold  Beef 
for  our  Dinner,  and  to  say  the  truth  I  liked  it  as  well. 
Upon  enquiry,  she  had  not  received  my  Letter,  the 
stupid  Man  at  the  Post  Office  had  not  given  it  to 
her  though  he  had  seen  her  several  times.  My 
Father  was  very  agreeable  as  usual  upon  the  journey, 
he  said  he  hoped  that  our  Friend  Mr.  C[holmondeley] 
would  pass  Sunday  with  you  which  might  console  you 
for  our  departure.  Mrs.  T.  and  Miss  Whyte  received 


1797]  Gbe  jfrancte  Xetters  423 

me  very  kindly,  the  evening  was  beautiful  and  Papa 
and  I  took  a  walk  by  the  Sea  after  Tea.  She  has  got 
a  very  nice  clean  House  with  an  Excellent  Pump  of 
Spring  Water  which  is  not  common  near  the  sea,  I 
have  the  Bedroom  adjoining  the  Drawing  Room, 
and  very  comfortable.  My  Father  had  a  fine  Hunt 
on  Monday  and  again  yesterday,  but  we  keep  such 
early  hours  that  we  do  not  meet  very  often.  My 
Father  dined  yesterday  at  Culling  Smiths  with  a  very 
agreeable  party,  Lord  and  Lady  Say  and  Sele  &c.  .  .  . 
Monday  Lady  Shelley  and  her  daughter  whom  you 
remember  called  upon  us ;  she  is  a  very  Elegant 
agreeable  woman  and  we  have  promised  to  go  there 
of  an  evening,  they  have  been  here  since  May  and 
are  to  remain  till  April,  one  of  her  Daughters  who 
was  with  her  in  prison  has  a  Bad  Leg  and  cannot 
set  her  Foot  to  the  Ground, — and  Sea  Bathing  which 
they  have  contrived  to  get  at  Home  is  the  only  thing 
likely  to  recover  her.  The  Place  is  quite  full  but 
nobody  goes  to  the  Balls  or  does  anything  but  Drive 
about  and  Walk.  We  Breakfast  at  9,  Dine  at  3,  walk 
from  five  till  seven  when  we  drink  Tea,  after  which 
we  amuse  ourselves  with  Musick,  Reading  and  working 
till  a  little  after  9  when  the  supper  is  brought  up  and 
soon  after  ten  we  retire.  Mrs.  Thomson  is  by  no 
means  well  and  wishes  to  turn  this  trip  to  the  account 
of  Health.  Nobody  can  be  more  goodnatured  and 
agreeable  than  she  &  Miss  Whyte,  and  I  hope,  the 
Place  will  be  of  service  to  her  likewise.  My  Father 
holds  his  intention  of  returning  to  Sheen  on  Sunday 
so  you  will  order  the  Landaulet  to  meet  him  at  Ewell 
that  day,  he  will  be  there  before  3  so  the  Coach  Man 


424  TOe  dfrancts  Xetters  [1797 

must  go  in  time  to  have  the  Horses  rested  and  be 
ready  to  set  out  towards  Home  at  that  time.  Tell 
the  Cats  that  I  shall  write  to  them  tomorrow.  Sir 
G[eorge]  W[ombwell]  is  living  en  Prince  at  Wick,  my 
Father  is  to  dine  with  him  on  Saturday — it  has  rained 
a  little  this  morning,  but  excepting  that  the  Weather 
has  been  divine — we  drive  out  in  the  Landaulet  every 
morning  which  I  like  much.  As  Catherine's  Friend 
the  Man  of  Feeling  is  here  I  hope  to  get  this  franked 
but  if  I  do  not  I  hope  you  will  not  grudge  the  postage 
of  so  elegant  a  Letter — with  love  to  every  Body 
believe  me,  Affectionately  yours. 

"  H.  F." 


GODSCHALL  JOHNSON,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO 

MRS.  JOHNSON,  HIS  STEPMOTHER. 

"ORIEL  COLLEGE, 

"  \*th  May,  1798. 

"  MY  DEAR  MRS.  JOHNSON, 

"  If  we  lived  in  a  magic  land,  then  what 
wonders  could  one  reconcile  to  ourselves,  with  the 
greatest  facility,  but  alas  !  we  may  now  puzzle  our 
Brains  in  vain  to  discover  what  strange  old  Witch 
or  Magician  has  been  at  work,  or  rather  what 
malignant  Fever  has  been  raging  so  universally  as 
to  turn  the  Heads  of  so  many  Doctors,  Proctors,  and 
all  manner  of  Clergymen.  My  Father  tells  me  that 
there  is  no  chance  of  an  Invasion.  If  so  I  cannot 
see  the  reason  for  this  strange  change  in  the  Order 
of  Things.  Why  does  the  Drum  &  Fife  prcecede 
the  College  Bells,  why  are  the  Caps  and  Gowns 
laid  aside  for  a  more  Military  Dress,  and  why  does 


1798]  TTbe  frauds  betters  425 

the  Musket  and  Bayonet  supply  the  Place  of  Books, 
while  beneath  each  Oxford  Parson's  Wig  lurks  a 
Captain  or  Lieutenant.  Such  at  present  is  the  state 
of  things  here  ;  and  I  no  longer  ago  than  this  morning 
saw  a  Doctor  of  Divinity  knock  down  an  Under 
Graduate  with  his  Musket ;  how  long  such  Terrible 
Acts  are  to  be  committed  I  am  ignorant  ;  I  hope  they 
will  be  at  an  end  in  about  a  Week,  as  I  expect  then 
to  get  out  again  ;  I  am  at  present  confined  to  my 
Room  and  have  been  so  for  these  two  or  three  days 
past,  consequently  live  rather  abstemiously,  with 
regard  both  to  eating  and  Drinking  ;  as  for  the  latter 
of  these  accomplishments  it  flourishes  to  a  greater 
degree  than  I  ever  yet  knew  it  in  Oriel.  I  hope 
that  you  are  all  pretty  well  at  Putney.  .  .  .  Pray 
remember  me  to  my  Father  as  well  as  Eliza  and 
believe  me,  dear  Madam,  yours  very  affectionately 

"  GODSCHALL  JOHNSON." 

Miss  LLEWELYNN  (A  YOUNG  FRIEND) 

TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 
"  MY  DEAR  MAMA, 

"...  I  was  coming  yesterday  to  enquire  but 
came  home  too  late,  being  engaged  to  the  Play. 
By  the  way  I  think  I  have  no  business  in  London 
for  I  am  grown  so  fastidious,  or  so  stupid,  (which 
entre  nous  I  believe  to  be  the  truth}  that  few  enter- 
tainments afford  me  much  amusement,  and  not  any 
that  I  have  witnessed,  compleat  satisfaction.  Henry 
the  8th  is  got  up  in  a  splendid  style  and  the  Acting 
is  certainly  entitled  to  much  commendation,  but  it 
was  (in  my  opinion)  by  no  means  as  perfect  as  I 


426  Ube  ffrancte  ^Letters  [1798 

had  been  led  to  expect.  I  thought  Mrs.  Siddons 
in  some  parts  monotonous  and  Drawling',  whining 
would  not  be  applicable  to  her  voice  entirely  though 
it  was  not  far  removed  from  it.  Her  delivery  is 
certainly  too  slow.  Pope's  King  was  by  no  means 
well  performed,  but  Kemble's  Wolsey  carried  the 
Palm  of  the  Evening  and  was  admirable. 

"  Tomorrow  if  the  weather  is  fine  and  I  am  better, 
I  shall  enjoy  a  real  gratification  being  engaged  in  a 
party  to  visit  Kew  Gardens.  ...  If  I  go  to  Kew 
I  shall  return  to  dinner,  and  if  you  have  no  company 
will  endeavour  to  call  upon  you  in  the  evening. 
Dear  Caty's  Book  &  Caps  are  safe.  .  .  . 

"  Ever  yours, 

"F.  L." 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

41  ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"July,  1798. 

"  I  fear  you  will  have  thought  me  unkind  dearest 
Marie  in  neglecting  you  so  long  but  I  have  been 
unfortunate  in  falling  down  and  spraining  my  right 
Hand.  .  .  . 

"  Harry,  as  she  is  your  regular  correspondent,  has 
probably  told  you  that  Mrs.  Thomson  was  to  make 
us  a  visit  this  week.  She  came  on  Thursday  and 
also  Mr.  Cholmondeley,  Mr.  Maddocks  yesterday,  and 
to-day  our  party  is  increased  by  Julia  Angerstein.  .  .  . 
Mr.  F.  is  much  too  agreeably  engaged  to  think  of 
us,  he  has  not  yet  been  here,  but  we  expect  that  he 
will  dine  here  to-day  if  it  is  only  to  take  leave  of 
us  as  on  Monday  he  is  going  to  Wooburn  for  a  week, 
and  we  to  console  ourselves  are  going  to  a  large  party 


1798]  ZTbe  jfrancfs  Xetters  427 

by  water,  to  dine  at  the  Folly  House  beyond  Green- 
wich. .  .  .  My  Father  is  just  arrived  and  I  think  you 
will  be  amused  if  I  tell  you  how  he  passed  yesterday. 
At  two  o'clock  he  embarked  in  a  twenty-oared  Boat, 
followed  by  a  smaller  one  with  the  Duke  of  York's 
Band,  the  party  consisting  of  Lady  Oxford  Ly. 
Cunningham,  Ld.  J.  Russell,  Mrs.  Wilmot  and  the 
Sheridans  with  many  gentlemen  too  tedious  to 
mention,  they  rowed  up  to  Lady  Diana  Beauclerks 
and  then  returned  to  dine  at  the  Castle  at  Richmond 
where  everything  was  prepared  in  a  sumptuous  style, 
they  returned  to  London  in  the  same  way,  and  he 
arrived  in  St.  James's  Square  at  12  o'clock,  dressed 
with  the  utmost  expedition  and  went  to  Mr.  Sheridan's 
where  the  party  were  assembled  with  many  additions, 
the  F£te  ended  with  a  Ball  and  your  Papa  danced 
like  the  youngest,  this  is  the  sort  of  life  he  has  led 
for  some  time  past,  and  I  think  you  will  allow  it  is 
a  merry  one. 

"  Adieu   my   dearest    Mary   with    kindest   love   to 
Johnson. 

"  CATTY." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTER  HARRIET. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"  Sunday  Morning •,  5  August,  1798. 

"  WORTHY  HARRIET, 

"  In  a  Word,  this  Place  is  everything  '  That 
youthful  Poets  fancy  when  they  love,  Riding,  racing, 
swimming,  drinking,  And  many  a  Freak,  that  dies  in 
thinking.'  Make  your  own  party  for  October,  and 
reckon  upon  me  for  a  sure  Card.  I  have  dined  every 
day  at  the  pavilion,  with  the  Stadtholder,  and  Prince 


428  TTfoe  ffrancte  betters  [1798 

Ernest  (Who  promises  to  be  a  good  neighbour  to 
me  in  future,  and  speaks  highly  of  the  said  Peach) 
and  twenty  others.  And  this  morning,  I  set  off,  in 
half  an  hour,  for  Arundel  Castle  in  Bob  Heathcote's 
Curricle,  to  spend  the  Day,  by  Invitation,  with  the 
Earl  Marshal  [Duke  of  Norfolk]  and  return  tomorrow. 
The  Lewes  Races  will  detain  me  here  till  Friday 
or  Saturday,  and  then  to  visit  Breton  in  my  way 
home.  From  this  moment,  I  hereby  bid  adieu  to 
maundering. 

"  Mrs.  Drake  has  been  very  gracious — if  I  could 
be  young  again,  you  should  soon  see  me  a  Favourite. 

"  So  fare  you  well. 
"P.  F. 

"  Con  amore  alia  madre." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  FAMILY. 

"  CHATSWORTH, 
"  Wednesday,  12th  Sept.,  1798. 

"  Bulletin. 

"  I  dined  at  Derby  on  Sunday,  and  got  to  Matlock 
about  eight  that  evening ;  four  hours  to  perform  1 7 
miles  in  a  torrent  of  Rain.  Staid  at  Matlock  all 
Monday  and  was  very  well  occupied  in  seeing  and 
surveying  the  most  beautiful  scenery  I  believe  in 
England,  dined  and  supt  with  fifty  very  agreeable 
people,  was  witness  to  a  Ball,  and  well  fed  for  next 
to  nothing. 

"  Tuesday  after  breakfast,  a  delightful  Ride  of 
eleven  miles  to  this  place  compared  to  which  all 
other  places,  even  Blenheim,  are  inconsiderable ;  I 
mean  for  Beauty  of  Ground  and  Plantation  extent 


1798]  Ube  ffrancte  Xetters  429 

and  variety  of  the  most  charming  views.  The  House 
is  on  an  immense  scale  and  at  present  not  a  fourth 
of  it  occupied.  So  I  steer  through  it  by  a  compass, 
and  to  find  the  Altitude  of  my  Bedchamber  make  use 
of  a  Quadrant.  The  Duke  of  Bedford  and  Lady 
Elizabeth  are  here  and  nobody  else,  au  reste,  on  ma 
refu  on  ne  peut  pas  mieux.  This  is  beyond  all 
comparison  the  finest  place  I  ever  saw,  and  with 
more  Company  I  could  stay  here  a  Fortnight.  At 
present  I  can  form  no  conjectures  about  my  farther 
proceedings. 

"  This  letter,  you  will  observe  is  jointly  and 
severally  to  all  of  you.  Tell  Philip  he  may  take 
possession  of  the  black  horse,  and  ride  him  into 
Essex. 

"  And  so  dearest,  Farewell, 

"Yrs,  P.  F. 

"  Some  day  Philip  must  accompany  these  young 
Ladies.  Their  voices  are  delightful.  It  is  now  past 
two.  The  Duke  of  Devonshire  is  just  come  down 
to  breakfast,  about  an  hour  after  the  Duke  of  Bedford 
and  I  had  finished  our  Repast." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  FAMILY. 

"  CHATSWORTH, 
"  Sunday,  16  Sept.,  1798. 

"  CARISSIME  MIE  DONNE, 

"  My  present  views  and  projects  lead  me 
to  believe  that  I  shall  leave  this  place  on  Tuesday, 
and  see  Hardwicke  in  my  way.  If  nothing  intervenes 
I  shall  probably  be  at  home  on  Friday,  but  do  not 
expect  me,  or  give  yourselves  the  trouble  of  saying 
anything  about  me  to  anybody.  The  Duke  of 


430  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1798 

Bedford  went  away  yesterday  morning,  and  Lord 
Yarborough  came  to  dinner.  The  Dutchess,  un- 
fortunately for  herself  and  me,  has  been  very  ill, 
first  with  a  nervous  headache  and  then  with  the 
Cramp  in  her  stomach,  and  confined  to  her  Bed  for 
three  days  ;  but  we  hope  to  see  her  to-day.  The 
characteristic  Feature  of  this  place  is  Tranquillity 
rarely  interrupted  by  talking  or  any  other  vain 
Levities.  I  do  everything  I  think  fit,  and  nobody 
cares  a  straw  what  I  do.  I  am  supposed  to  be  of 
a  restless  habit  because  I  get  up  at  ten,  and  am  in 
a  hurry  to  breakfast,  as  I  do  by  myself,  at  eleven, 
from  that  till  seven  I  do  what  I  will ;  so  I  ride  and 
read  and  dress,  and  then  to  dinner.  Lord  Yarborough, 
thank  God,  has  a  turn  for  Talking.  Everybody  else 
is  dumb  ;  most  of  the  servants  are  as  old  as  the  house, 
and  the  greatest  part  of  them  stone  deaf.  Yesterday 
I  rode  out  two  hours  with  Lady  Elizabeth  and  Lady 
Georgiana ;  but  they  are  both  as  grave  as  judges,  and 
never  speak  without  reflection.  In  short,  the  Dutchess 
being  ill  spoils  everything,  nevertheless  and  notwith- 
standing, as  I  am  a  free  Agent  and  nobody  minds 
me  I  pass  my  time  very  well  and  like  it  mightily. 
Tomorrow  the  Duke  has  a  public  day,  that  is  he 
has  a  Dinner  for  all  the  Neighbourhood  ;  or  for  all 
the  county,  if  they  choose  to  come,  so  I  shall  see  a 
good  many  of  the  Natives,  and  learn  something  of 
the  manners  of  the  Country.  Mr.  Yarrow's1  natural 
taciturnity  is  considerably  improved  by  the  examples 
before  him.  He  walks  about  like  a  Ghost  and  is 
as  silent  as  the  Grave. 

1  Francis's  Valet. 


1798]  £be  Jfrancis  Xetters  431 

11  Nothing  further  occurs  at  present,  and  so  farewell. 
This  instructive  letter  is  for  the  common  good,  I 
mean  of  you  three. 

"Yrs.  P.  F. 

"  6  o'clock. 

11  Just  returned  from  what  they  call  a  morning's 
ride  with  Lord  Yarborough,  to  visit  a  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Eyre  who  live  on  a  Mountain  and  pass  the  winter 
there  in  their  own  society. 

"  The  Dutchess  is  come  down  with  her  usual 
Looks,  but  the  Duke  has  got  the  Gout,  and  I  am 
afraid  will  not  be  visible  today." 

"  CHATSWORTH, 
"  Tuesday,  \%th  September,  1798. 

"  MY  OWN  DEAR  CATHARINE  BETTY  AND  MAWMAW, 
"  Many  thanks  to  dear  Betty  for  her  kind 
letter.  All  my  arrangements  were  made  for  an  early 
departure  this  very  morning ;  but  the  mention  of  it 
produced  so  many  kind  invitations  from  my  noble 
Host  of  the  Garter,  which  the  Dutchess  appeared 
to  concur  in,  that  I  have  yielded  to  stay  another 
day,  and  you  know  as  well  as  I  do  what  my  destination 
may  be  tomorrow ;  but  I  believe  I  shall  dine  at 
Buxton,  and  stay  there  all  night,  as  there  are  people 
there  whom  I  should  like  to  see. 

11  This  would  be  an  excellent  place  for  the  lady 
who  liked  to  have  her  time  to  herself.  Events  never 
happen  at  Chatsworth,  except  a  public  dinner  every 
Monday,  and  the  waterworks  playing  all  the  time. 
We  have  one  fountain  that  rises  94  feet  and  a  cascade 
like  a  flight  of  steps,  a  quarter  of  a  mile  long.  It 


432  ftbe  jfrancte  Otters  [1798 

must  be  my  own  fault  if  I  do  not  make  Reflections 
enough  while  I  am  here  to  last  me  for  a  year  or  two. 
Lord  Yarborough  went  off  this  morning,  and  as  to 
the  inhabitants  I  shall  see  none  of  them  till  seven. 
Au  Reste  I  have  all  the  comforts  and  enjoyments 
compatible  with  a  state  of  uninterrupted  solitude,  the 
best  of  breakfasts,  riding,  walking,  reading,  and  fine 
weather.  As  for  silence  the  Abbaye  of  La  Trappe 
is  a  mere  Babel  to  this  house.  I  asked  the  Gardener 
how  long  he  had  lived  here  and  who  he  conversed 
with.  He  said,  40  years,  and  seldom  spoke  to  any- 
body. Talking  it  seems  had  been  left  off  ever  since 
the  marriage  of  the  present  Duke's  grandfather  who 
died  in  King  William's  time.  The  Dutchess  tried 
to  bring  conversation  into  fashion,  but  to  no  purpose  ; 
and  even  poor  Lady  Elizabeth  is  not  allowed  to  talk 
except  upon  her  fingers. 

"  Her  Grace  has  said  that  I  must  introduce  her 
to  all  my  family,  to  which  I  have  consented.  The 
little  ones  are  as  fond  of  Music  as  any  of  us,  and 
sing  very  agreeably  together. 

"  Having  now  seen  enough  of  the  World  to  last 
me  a  fortnight  I  long  to  be  at  Sheen  again. 

"  Yours  dutifully, 

"P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  THE  GEORGIANA,  DUCHESS  OF 
DEVONSHIRE. 

"  November  nth,  1798. 

"  I  returned  to  town  on  Wednesday,  and  found 
your  benevolent  letter  of  the  iyth  waiting  for  me 
impatiently.  In  the  first  place,  I  was  charmed  with 


GEORGIANA,   DUCHESS   OF    DEVONSHIRE. 

To  face  page  432.] 


1798]  ITfoe  jfrancte  Xetters  433 

the  size  of  it :  but,  to  show  you  that  I  know  how  to 
command  myself,  and  that  I  am  not  invariably  hurried 
away  by  the  impression  of  the  moment,  I  shall 
suppress  all  my  compliments,  and  proceed  to  business. 

"  As  long  as  you  are  writing  to  me,  I  know  who 
you  are  thinking  of;  and  though  I  see  with  a  breaking 
heart  that  I  am  not  uppermost  in  your  thoughts,  still 
I  defy  you,  with  all  your  airs,  to  write  to  anyone  for 
two  hours  without  thinking  of  him  for  two  minutes. 
Tant  gagnt  au  mains  :  so  like  a  true  gamester,  I 
shall  pocket  what  I  win,  and  wrangle  for  the  rest. 
The  generous  Passions  are  always  eloquent,  especially 
on  a  favourite  subject.  You  love  him  with  all  his 
faults  because  they  are  his.  I  wish  I  was  one  of 
them.  I  should  keep  good  company,  and  share  in 
your  Regard.  Since  that  cannot  be,  I  have  nothing 
left  for  it  but  to  envy  him  for  the  first  time,  and 
to  hate  him  as  I  used  to  do,  con  amore.  You  say 
you  will  never  be  detached  from  his  standard  ;  a  la 
bonne  heure :  but  where  is  it,  or  who  has  thrown  it 
down  ?  If  it  exists  anywhere  but  in  your  own  fertile 
fancy,  I  desire  nothing  better  than  to  repair  to  it  in 
your  society,  and  to  fight  under  it,  as  I  have  done 
for  fourteen  years,  not  only  without  pay  but  without 
hope.  You  affirm  with  an  air  of  Triumph  '  that  anyone 
who  thinks  a  party  can  exist  without  him  will  find 
themselves  mistaken.'  I  believe  so  ;  but  then,  is  it 
really  a  subject  for  exultation  ?  He1  las,  belle  dame, 
faurai  bien  des  choses  a  vous  dire  ;  but  not  till  time 
and  many  prayers  of  mine  as  well  as  your  own  have 
inclined  your  heart  unto  wisdom. 

"  I    am    overwhelmed   with   consternation    at    the 


434  ftbe  Jfrancfs  betters  [1798 

multitude  of  beautiful  things  you  say  about  G. 
T[ierne]y.  Has  he,  or  any  mortal  for  him,  ever  said, 
heard,  or  understood,  that  he  aspired  to  be  the  Leader, 
or  that  he  thought  himself  qualified  to  fill  the  seat,  and 
to  supply  the  place,  of  C.  F.  ?  Far  from  it.  I  know 
that  he  has  said  and  done  everything,  that  depended 
on  him,  to  prevent  the  vacancy.  But  I  hope  you 
will  allow  that  they  who  are  forsaken  (without 
concert,  notice,  or  warning  of  any  kind)  have  a  right 
to  do  the  best  they  can  for  themselves.  God  knows, 
that  is  very  little  indeed.  You  say  it  is  Presumption 
to  suppose  that  he  can  do  without  Fox.  If  Mr. 
Fox  has  left  his  friends  and  party  for  the  special 
purpose  of  convincing  them  that  they  cannot  do 
without  him,  and  that  it  is  in  vain  for  them  to  try, 
I  confess  that  the  Experiment  has  answered  com- 
pletely. But  we  knew  it  beforehand,  and  wanted  no 
such  evidence.  Forgive  me  dear  Madam.  He  who 
cannot  look  forward  without  despair  must  and  will 
look  back  with  indignation.  You  expect  and  you 
encourage  me  to  deal  frankly  with  you.  You  give 
your  own  sentiments  freely,  and  with  an  openness 
for  which  I  am  bound  to  you  for  ever.  Shall  I 
suffer  in  your  opinion  by  following  your  example  ? 
Sooner  than  incur  that  penalty,  /  am  ready  to  be 
persuaded. 

"  I  really  have  not  seen,  for  no  reason  but  because 
it  was  impossible,  your  '  dearest,  loveliest,  best  of 
sisters';1  but  if  I  live  and  do  well,  I  shall  have  that 
happiness  next  week.  I  shall  soon  know,  by  her 
behaviour,  whether  you  have  spoken  of  me  favourably 
1  The  Duchess's  own  words  of  Lady  Bessborough. 


1798]  ttbe  ifrancfs  betters  435 

or  not.  If  she  frowns  upon  me,  you  shall  hear  of  it, 
and,  what's  more,  you  shall  pay  for  it :  that  is,  with 
some  of  those  particular  smiles  that  are  reserved 
for  favourites. 

"  I  send  the  pamphlet  by  this  post.  It  was  all 
true,  though  at  present  out  of  date.  Stocks  are 
falling  back  again.  It  is  odd,  but  true,  that  the 
higher  they  are  the  less  the  probability  of  selling 
the  land  tax.  I  do  not  believe  that  a  third  of  it 
will  be  bought,  and  that  only  by  proprietors. 

"  Pray  tell  me  that  you  are  not  angry  with  me  ; 
I  am  mortally  frightened  at  what  I  have  written.  I 
go  to  town  on  Monday,  and  am  very  much  disposed 
to  stay  there  till  Thursday.  Two  of  the  infantry, 
my  inseparable  companions,  are  left  carousing  at 
Waverley  Abbey ;  good  living  had  nearly  killed  me. 

"  I  hope,  as  I  most  devoutly  wish,  that  the  Duke 
will  not  find  it  necessary  to  go  to  Buxton.  If  he 
does,  Lord  !  how  I  shall  write  to  you  out  of  mere 
generosity  and  compassion. 

"P.  F." 

THE  DUCHESS  OF  DEVONSHIRE  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"November  29^,  1798. 

"  I  am  particularly  vexed  at  having  been  prevented 
writing,  lest  you  should  think  I  was  affronted  or 
unworthy  of  your  kindness.  It  must  be  a  bad  heart 
who  could  be  otherwise  than  delighted  (even  when 
differing  from  you)  at  your  warm  and  eloquent  ex- 
pressions, and  a  mind  devoid  of  taste  who  could 
relinquish  such  a  correspondent.  But,  besides  having 
been  at  a  country  ball,  and  having  had  a  house  full 


436  ftfoe  ffrancte  ^Letters  [1798 

of  Derbyshire  savages,  I  have  been  vexed  to  my 
heart's  core.  Oh  !  my  dear  Mr.  Francis,  you  must  have 
spoilt  me,  since  I  feel  a  pleasure  in  telling  you  how 
worried  I  have  been,  though  I  cannot  tell  you  the 
cause,  though  you  can  do  me  no  good,  and  though 
my  poor  heart  has  been  torn  to  pieces.  You  know 
not  what  you  have  done  in  taking  some  interest  in 
such  a  being  as  I  am ;  you  must  often  listen  to 
lamentation,  because,  though  in  reality  an  old  woman, 
my  heart  and  mind  are  still  childish  ;  nor  can  I 
encounter  without  pain  a  world  that  is  too  wise  for 
me.  I  must  feel  unkindness  when  I  meet  with  it, 
and  anxiety  when  it  presses  round  me.  Do  not  be 
angry  at  my  boring  you  with  all  this  stuff;  indeed,  if 
you  knew  me  such  as  I  am,  you  would  know  that  I 
pay  you  a  compliment  in  writing  thus. 

"  How  can  you  suppose  me  angry  for  your  averring 
your  opinion  ?  I  knew  it  long  ago,  and  wished  to 
bring  you  to  own  it,  that  I  might  attack  it,  but  low 
spirits,  which  have  taken  from  me  the  power  of 
writing  for  these  ten  days,  have  also  weakened  my 
strength  as  a  champion.  You  are  wrong,  indeed 
you  are.  Charles  has,  and  always  had,  faults  of 
heedlessness,  that  may  injure  him,  and  have,  as  a 
statesman,  but  never  as  the  greatest  of  men.  Who, 
at  one  glance,  took  in  the  view  of  the  French 
revolution  ?  Who  saw  its  consequence  and  warned 
us  of  the  inutility  of  opposing  its  progress  ?  Will 
not  posterity  remember  this  and  bless  him  ?  Will 
not  they  remember  his  merciful  wishes  on  the  con- 
demnation of  Lewis  XVI.,  and  the  various  times 
he  would  have  checked  (and  it  could  have  been 


1798]  Ube  jfrancte  Xettets  437 

done  then)  our  wild  career  ?  Who  has  sacrificed 
even  his  darling  popularity  to  his  principles  ?  His 
standard  is  in  the  hearts  of  men,  in  my  heart  of 
hearts,  in  your  own,  for  you  are  one  of  those  formed 
by  nature  with  the  fire,  the  animation  that,  I  am 
sure,  must  make  you  shrink  from  any  other  cause. 

"  I  blame  not  George  Tierney  ;  but  he  is  no  great 
man  ;  a  man  who  is  only  bright  in  the  absence  of 
superior  merit  is  in  the  right  to  make  use  of  his 
opportunity,  for  it  will  not  last  long.  No,  would  I 
were  a  man,  to  unite  my  talents,  my  hopes,  my 
fortune,  with  Charles's,  to  make  common  cause,  and 
fall  or  rule,  with  him. 

"  In  my  mind,  he  is  greater  than  any  splendid 
situation  can  make  him,  he  has  warned  us  of  danger ; 
he  has  pointed  the  relief,  and  had  he  had  the  voice 
of  the  charmer,  he  could  have  done  no  more.  Being 
no  longer  of  any  use,  he  retired,  and  his  retirement 
has,  I  think,  opened  more  eyes  than  any  other 
measure  could  have  done.  The  extreme  fretful  dislike 
my  Pittite  friends  express  to  the  secession  proves  to 
me  that  they  have  reason  to  fear  it. 

"  Indeed,  I  was  unjust  to  Tierney  ;  but  I  have  a 
proud  spirit,  and  an  irritable  one,  and  I  could  not 
bear  his  supposing  he  could  stand  alone,  and  avow 
his  intention  as  an  important  fact,  when  I  am  sure 
(and  I  think  you  will  see),  if  he  does  entirely  detach 
himself,  he  will  either  sink  into  oblivion  or  join 
the  minister. 

"  The  confidence  of  men  is  with  Pitt ;  they  respect 
him,  as  often  a  wife  does  her  husband ;  think  him 
a  very  disagreeable  fellow,  but  a  good  manager  of 

VOL.    II.  7 


438  tTbc  ifrancte  Xetters  [1798 

their  views  and  happiness ;  and  now,  though  they 
think  he  has  been  going  and  going  on  too  far,  yet 
they  still  cling  to  their  spouse,  lest  the  separation 
or  divorce  should  bring  on  immediate  ruin  ;  for  they 
have  given  up  all  their  settlements,  jointure,  and 
even  pin-money  into  his  hands  ;  but,  whilst  they  are 
mingled  in  the  interests  of  il  caro  sposo,  their  hearts 
are  with  Charles.  He  is  not  rich  enough  for  an 
elopement  with  him  ;  and  the  husband,  by  extreme 
jealousy  and  misrepresentation,  has  hurt  him  a  little 
in  their  opinion  ;  but  still  they  love  him  in  secret. 
He  has  a  heart.  Pitt  has  none.  Now  I  cannot  think 
that  they  will  look  on  Tierney  or  Lord  Moira,  or 
any  pretender  I  know  of,  even  in  the  light  of  a 
gallant,  or  even  flirt.  They  feel  themselves  in  a  bad 
situation,  and,  if  long  trial  at  last  engages  the  people 
to  break  all  connection  with  Pitt,  it  will  be  for  no 
petty  intrigue,  but  for  the  lover,  whose  abilities  and 
genius  could  save  them  by  some  vast  effort  of  genius, 
and  whom  they  have  so  long  felt  to  be  their 
destiny. 

"As  I  am  very  sure  you  do  not  think  that  I,  as 
a  woman,  ever  was,  could  be,  or  am,  in  love  with 
Charles  Fox  you  will  allow  that,  in  fervour,  enthusiasm, 
and  devotion,  I  am  a  good  friend,  and  I  assure  you, 
dear  Mr.  Francis,  short  as  our  acquaintance  has  been, 
I  could  and  would  make  a  very  noble  battle  for  you, 
should  anybody  attack  you,  which  hitherto  has  not 
been  the  case,  as  all  I  have  seen  admire  you  as 
I  do. 

"  But  I  want  you  to  explain  the  beginning  of  your 
letter ;  who  am  I  thinking  of  when  I  write  to  you  ? 


1798]  tTbe  jfrancte  Xettets  439 

I  am  ashamed  of  sending  this  letter,  so  incorrect, 
and  so  mad  as  I  fear  it  is,  but  I  am  really  extremely 
ill  indeed.  I  will  write  again  when  I  am  better ; 
but  pray  write  a  celle  qui  sail  si  bien  apprecier  le 
plaisir  de  recevoir  de  telles  lettres. 

"  Adair  went  to-day,  and  the  Lambs,  the  youngest 
of  whom  is  the  finest  creature  I  ever  saw  in  mind 
or  body.  I  should  like  to  send  you  some  verses 
of  his  on  Charles  Fox ;  they  answer  even  my  idea 
of  praise. 

"  Tell  me  that  you  are  not  angry,  and  that  I 
may  write  on  as  I  think. 

"  Form  no  judgment  of  my  dear  sister;  for  she  is 
ill  and  low,  as  she  too  often  is  at  the  beginning  of 
the  cold  weather." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  THE  DUCHESS  OF  DEVONSHIRE. 

"  December  yd,  1798. 

"  Some  cruel  words  in  the  letter  I  received  from 
you  yesterday  have  filled  me  with  deep  and  serious 
anxiety,  and  the  more  as  I  cannot,  if  I  would,  con- 
jecture what  grief  they  relate  to,  or  what  is  the 
nature  or  extent  of  it.  The  Causes  and  Objects  of 
fear  are  infinitely  more  formidable  in  the  dark  than 
when  they  are  distinctly  seen  :  for  then  they  may 
be  measured  and  provided  for.  Do  not  believe  it 
possible  that  your  heart  can  be  ( torn  in  pieces,'  and 
that  mine  can  be  un wounded.  On  a  subject  so 
described,  it  would  be  equally  unbecoming  and  useless 
in  me  to  ask  a  question  or  to  solicit  an  Explanation. 
Neither  am  I  of  a  curious  temper,  nor  is  it  consistent 
with  my  judgment  or  principles  to  encourage  the 


44°  Ube  jfrancts  ^Letters  [1798 

communication  of  secrets  unless  it  be  to  answer  some 
serviceable  purpose.  Sorrow  is  certainly  softened  by 
participation.  To  share  the  burden  is  to  lighten 
it ;  but  that  case  supposes  a  long  and  mutual  Intimacy, 
and  cannot  be  extended  to  many.  From  woman  to 
woman,  it  is  most  dangerous.  From  the  good  and 
generous  to  the  reserved  or  the  interested,  it  gives 
dominion  at  least,  which  may  be  abused.  Confidence 
plants  itself,  and  will  not  grow  by  forcing.  There 
may  be  an  exception,  for  I  have  some  faith  in 
sympathy,  unaccountable  as  all  faith  is.  In  a  few 
instances,  I  have  hated  at  first  sight.  In  others,  as 
you  perhaps  may  think  possible  enough,  I  have  loved 
without  waiting  for  a  second.  But  mere  love  should 
beware  of  confessing  anything  to  its  Object,  except 
its  own  passion.  The  party  that  desires  more  intends 
to  command.  With  all  these  wise  considerations 
before  you,  it  is  for  your  own  discretion  to  judge 
whether  any  Service,  or  Counsel,  or  Consolation,  of 
mine  can  be  of  any  use  to  you.  If  not,  you  ought 
not  to  tell  me ;  for  though  /  know  you  would  be 
safe,  you  do  not.  It  was  not  intended  that  the  affairs 
of  this  world  should  be  governed,  or  the  happiness 
of  individuals  secured,  by  anything  without  prudence. 
Virtue  suffers,  and  vice  enjoys,  and  then  they  change 
places.  The  passions  defeat  themselves,  or  make  us 
pay  too  dear  for  their  indulgence.  Talents,  genius, 
science,  when  left  to  themselves  and  their  own 
guidance,  very  often  constitute  the  Misery  of  those 
who  possess  them.  Religion  comes  late,  and  serves 
only  to  console.  Can  you  endure,  and  will  you 
forgive,  these  moral  airs  in  a  man  who  never 


1798]  tTbe  ffrancfe  OLettets  441 

pretended  to  be  anything,  and  to  be  a  moralist  least 
of  all  ?  With  all  possible  veracity,  I  do  confess  to 
you  that  I  am  very  wise  for  everybody  but  myself. 
Wisdom  has  been  beaten  into  me  by  experience, 
of  which  no  man,  I  believe,  has  had  more  than  I 
have  had,  to  my  cost,  crowded  into  the  same  number 
of  years.  Yet  born  and  bred  as  I  was  in  adversity, 
and  traversed  by  Disappointment  in  every  pursuit  of 
my  life,  I  never  should  have  been  unhappy  if  it  had 
been  possible  for  me  never  to  be  imprudent.  My 
mind  is  come  at  last  to  its  maturity,  of  which  you, 
if  you  please,  or  if  you  want  it,  may  at  all  times 
have  the  benefit.  Should  I  fail  in  judgment,  you 
will  find  me  safe,  faithful,  and  discreet.  You  talk 
of  the  shortness  of  our  acquaintance ;  why,  then,  if 
all  this  be  not  mere  Moonshine,  and  if  we  are  really 
and  seriously  to  be  friends,  we  have  no  time  to  lose. 
The  fact,  however,  is  that  /  have  known  you  many 
years,  and  long  before  the  date  of  our  acquaintance. 
It  is  true  I  saw  you  at  a  great  distance,  and  as  a 
bird  of  passage.  The  planet  passed  by,  and  knew 
nothing  of,  the  poor  Astronomer  who  watched  her 
motions  and  waited  for  the  transit.  Hereafter,  I 
hope,  you  will  not  insist  on  my  seeing  you  through 
a  telescope.  Honestly  and  honourably,  I  believe  I 
meant  nothing,  but  that,  while  you  were  writing  to 
me,  you  thought  of  nobody  but  C.  F.  Not  at  all, 
however,  in  the  sense  of  being  in  love  with  him. 
That  idea  never  entered  into  my  thoughts.  On  that 
subject,  I  begin  to  be  what  fine  ladies  call  nettled, 
by  your  eternally  answering  me  at  cross  purposes, 
or  telling  me,  as  you  do  in  effect,  that  six  and  four 


442  Ufoe  jfrancfs  Xetters  [1798 

do  not  make  nineteen,  and  as  if  I  had  maintained 
the  contrary.  My  allegation  is  that  I  am  forsaken, 
&c.  Your  defence  is  that  he  is  a  man  of  transcendent 
abilities,  and  extremely  amiable  in  private  life.  I 
admire  the  discovery,  but  it  gives  me  no  sort  of 
consolation.  Your  petty  ministerial  friends  abuse  the 
secession,  and  therefore  you  conclude  that  the  minister 
suffers  by  it.  No  such  thing.  It  lowers  their  con- 
sequence with  him,  it  annihilates  the  venal  value  of 
their  vote  ;  he  wants  no  support,  because  he  is  not 
opposed,  and  of  course  will  not  pay  them  for  their 
attendance.  Of  course,  they  abuse  the  Secession. 
But,  it  seems,  '  you  are  too  proud  and  too  irritable 
to  bear  that  G.  T.  should  suppose  it  possible  he 
could  stand  alone!'  Why,  what,  in  the  name  of 
your  own  idol,  would  you  have  him  do  ?  Would 
you  have  him  hang  himself  because  C.  F.  chooses 
to  live  at  St.  Anne's  Hill  ?  I  fret  like  gummed  velvet, 
and  wish  I  could  hate  you  for  half  an  hour,  that  I 
might  cut  you  into  a  thousand  little  stars,  and  live 
under  the  canopy." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  THE  DUCHESS  OF  DEVONSHIRE. 

"  December  *>th,  1798. 

"  On  Monday  I  wrote  till  I  could  not  see,  without 
saying  half  what  I  intended.  You  say  I  must  have 
spoilt  you.  Will  you  be  so  good  as  to  tell  me  what 
sort  of  being  you  were  before  you  were  spoiled.  As 
for  me,  it  is  a  clear  case  that  I  must  be  bewitched, 
or  I  never  would  trust  a  declared  Enemy  with  such 
a  letter  as  the  enclosed.  Perhaps  the  answer  to  it 
if  it  ever  was  answered,  was  directed  to  yourself. 


1798]  ftbe  ffvancis  Xetters  443 

I  never  received  any,  nor  ever  heard  a  word  on  the 
subject,  though  I  lived  with  your  friend  a  week  at 
Woburn  in  July.  .  .  .  You  say  '  I  knew  your  opinion 
long  ago,  and  wished  to  bring  you  to  own  it,  that 
I  might  attack  it.'  Most  dear  insidious  person  !  I 
had  no  disposition  to  inveigh  against  Mr.  Fox's 
conduct,  nor  should  I  have  said  word  about  it  if 
you  had  not  provoked  me  on  one  side,  and  ensnared 
me  on  the  other.  Will  you  now  be  honourable, 
and  can  you  be  just  ?  Did  such  a  letter  deserve  no 
answer  ?  Did  such  an  attachment  as  mine  for  so 
many  years,  and  with  the  Sacrifice  of  every  view  of 
interest  or  ambition,  with  all  the  et  ceteras  of 
friendships  renounced  and  enmities  incurred  for  him, 
entitle  me  to  no  return,  to  no  acknowledgment,  not 
to  a  single  word  at  parting,  but  to  be  thrown  aside 
comme  un  paquet  de  Huge  sale  ?  Then,  whose  advice 
does  he  pretend  to  have  followed  ?  Believe  me, 
they  were  none  of  them  qualified  to  advise  on  such 
a  subject.  But  it  was  a  mere  Pretence.  His  own 
heart  and  soul  were  bent  upon  St.  Anne's  Hill. 
In  no  case,  however,  and  with  no  secret  council, 
ought  he  to  have  resolved  on  such  a  measure  without 
a  general  meeting  and  consultation  with  all  his  friends. 
For  the  General  himself  to  disband  his  army,  to  turn 
his  party  adrift,  as  if  all  his  duties  ended  with  Sauve 
qui  peut  \  The  Princess  of  Eboli  said  to  Philip 
the  Second,  '  Trayciones  de  vassal os  a  reyes  muchas 
se  han  visto.pero  de  rey  a  vassalos  munca  tall  He 
understands  Spanish,  and  is  the  properest  Person  in 
the  world  to  explain  these  words  to  you.  One 
remark  more,  and  then  I  shall  implore  you  to  drop 


444  ^be  jfrancts  Xetters  [1798 

the  subject.  You  say,  *  Would  I  were  a  man,  to 
unite  my  talents,  my  hopes,  my  fortune,  with  Charles's, 
to  make  common  cause,  and  fall  or  rule,  with  him.' 
These  are  the  Sentiments  that  belong  to  a  generous 
heart.  I  love  you  for  them,  and  not  at  all  the  less 
because  they  have  misled  you.  In  the  first  place, 
if  you  had  your  wish,  you  must  carry  your  talents, 
your  hopes,  and  fortune,  to  St.  Anne's  Hill ;  and 
then  I  should  like  to  know  what  use  you  would  make 
of  them.  Secondly  you  always  suppose  that  there  is 
a  standard  to  repair  to,  and  then  you  argue  as  if 
we,  who  in  fact  have  been  disbanded  in  the  most 
ungracious  manner,  were  no  better  than  Deserters. 

With  respect  to  G.  T y,  it  seems  to  me  that  your 

objection  would  not  be  good,  even  if  the  fact  were 
true  as  you  state  it ;  namely,  that  he  thought  himself 
qualified  to  supply  the  place  of  Mr.  Fox.  He  has  no 
such  thoughts  ;  but  if  he  had,  the  true  Objection 
lies  against  Mr.  Fox,  who  quits  a  place  which  nobody 

can  fill  when  he  has  left  it.     G.  T y  holds,  and 

has  always  held,  a  certain  rank  and  station  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  without  high  Pretensions,  or 
aiming  at  more  than  he  can  perfectly  make  good. 
Within  the  limits,  which  his  own  judgment  prescribes 
to  him,  and  far  from  all  competition  with  Mr.  Fox, 
he  is  well  heard  and  generally  respected.  His 
Opposition  yesterday,  standing  alone  as  he  did,  totally 
unsupported,  does  honour  to  his  personal  character, 
as  well  as  to  his  abilities ;  and  whether  you  believe 
me  or  not,  I  beg  of  you  to  remember  what  I  say, 
that  he  will  gain  ground  in  the  Esteem  of  the  country, 
that  he  will  gain  and  preserve  it, 


1798]  t£be  jfrancte  Xettets  445 

"  I  had  the  honour  of  dining  with  Lord  Bessborough 
on  Wednesday  last,  with  Lord  and  Lady  Holland, 
Duke  of  Bedford,  Lord  Thanet,  Lord  Wycombe, 
and  General  Fitzpatrick.  I  thought  your  sister  looked 
uncommonly  well  in  health  and  beauty,  and  full  of 
spirits  and  gaiety.  The  dinner  and  conversation  was 
very  agreeable.  Lord  Wycombe  quite  a  curiosity. 
His  eyes  are  wild,  and  sometimes  mad  ;  he  is  deaf,  and 
his  voice,  of  which  he  does  not  know  the  sound  or 
impression  is  a  perpetual  Discord.  He  talks  much, 
and  with  great  vehemence,  but  answers  nobody, 
because  he  hears  nothing.  Nevertheless,  I  was 
delighted  with  his  company,  and  do  not  remember 
to  have  met  with  anything  so  odd  in  the  delivery,  or 
so  entertaining  In  the  substance,  as  his  conversation. 
Having  now  vented  all  my  spleen  on  an  ungrateful 
Topic,  I  humbly  beg  pardon,  and  promise  not  to 
do  so  any  more.  Will  you  discard  me  for  my  Honesty, 
or  will  you  be  gracious  and  tell  me  that  you  do 
not  hate  me  because  I  have  received  very  vile  treat- 
ment, or  despise  me  because  I  have  submitted  to  it  ? 

"  P.  .F." 

From  Brighton,  where  Francis  was  the  guest 
of  Lord  and  Lady  Thanet  : — 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"  Saturday  Morning,  8  December ;  1798. 

"  DEAR  BETTY, 

"  On  my  Arrival  here  I  found  a  Card  from 
the  Prince  of  Wales  to  desire  me  to  dine" with  Him 
on  Sunday ;  so  you  must  make  my  Excuses  to  the 


446  TTbe  ffrancte  Xettets  [1798 

Bo   and    all    Friends,    and   say   how    infinitely   sorry 
I  am  &c.,  &c. 

"  Also  tell  the  Groom  to  be  here  on  Monday  at 
twelve,  with  Leather  Troisiemes,  and  Whip  ; — he  need 
not  bring  the  Boots. 

"  I  saw  H.R.H.  afterwards  who  enquired  very 
kindly  for  the  Young  Ladies.  Also  Sir  T.  M.  dead 
drunk,  who  wod  if  he  cod,  have  spoken  in  Raptures  of 
a  Lady  he  met  at  the  Bishop's  !  Staid  with  Bob  and 
Tom  till  four  this  morning. 

"  Yours  dutifully, 

"  P.  F. 

"  This  old  fury  has  some  thoughts  of  hanging 
herself.  Then  I  should  be  sorry.  Think  of  that, 
for  an  Old  Woman  too ! " 

The  postscript  is  a  joking  reference  to  his  hostess 
Lady  Thanet,  at  that  time  at  Brighton,  who  was 
neither  old  nor  a  fury.  The  Lord  Thanet  of  that  day 
was  Sackville  Tufton,  ninth  Earl,  distinguished  as  a 
political  reformer  and  a  great  agriculturist.  He  seated 
Francis  for  Appleby  at  the  General  Election  of  1802. 

Lady  Thanet  was  a  Hungarian  of  the  family  of 
Bojanowiez  and  a  very  charming  woman.  Francis 
was  much  attached  to  both  of  them,  and  spent  a  great 
deal  of  time  with  them  at  Hothfield,  in  Kent,  from 
which  place  he  wrote  numbers  of  letters.  On  one 
occasion  when  he  was  writing  home  Lady  Thanet 
looked  over  his  shoulder.  Without  appearing  to  be 
aware  of  her  presence  he  continued  his  letter  in  a 
very  uncomplimentary  strain  towards  his  hostess,  and 
from  that  time  and  for  many  years  he  amused  himself 


1798]  ftbe  jfrancts  betters  447 

by  writing  all  sorts  of  nonsense  about  her,  particularly 
with  reference  to  her  temper,  and  that  she  should  read 
it  and  comment  indignantly  on  it  became  a  standing 
joke.  Many  years  later  he  writes  from  Hothfield  :  — 

"  My  Lady  here  says  with  good  security  she  thinks 
I  might  behave  well  for  ten  days  in  any  house  if 
everything  went  to  my  mind,  after  that  I  should  play 
the  tyrant  if  it  were  in  Paradise.  ...  I  should  write 
a  great  deal  more  about  many  things  that  you  wot  of 
but  I  am  forced  to  shew  my  letter  to  my  Lady  to 
prevent  her  opening  it.  I  trust  however  she  will 
have  enough  of  inspecting  our  letters  as  she  may 
find  more  than  she  expects  though  not  half  what  1 
could  say." 

In  another  letter  he  writes  : — 

"  My  Lady  scolds  the  servants  all  day  and  my 
Lord  all  night  which  makes  a  variety  (if  that  can  be 
various  which  never  abates  for  an  instant)  and  keeps 
some  life  in  the  house. 

"  DIALOGUE. 

"  '  Monsieur  le  Cook,  Vat  you  mean  by  sending 
up  the  soup  stone  cold  ? ' 

" '  C'est  qu'il  fait  si  froid  Milady.' 

"  '  Sachez  Monsieur  que  je  suis  capable  de  vous 
renvoyer  sur  le  champ  ?  ' 

"  '  A  la  bonne  heure  Milady  J'aimerais  mieux 
mendier  mon  pain  dans  les  rues  de  Londres  que  de 
vivre  dans  ce  maudit  Climat  et  avec  (aside)  une 
carogne,  acariatre,  reveche,  begueule,  drogue  et 
diablesse  fieffee.  (Aloud]  Une  belle  et  douce 
personne  comme  votre  Ladiship.' 


448  Ufoe  jfrancte  Xetters  [1798 

"  '  Allez  vous  en,  cuisinier  de  tout  les  diables.  .  .  . 
Je  suis  bien  sotte  de  parler  a  un  animal  comme 
vous.' 

"  You  must  know  her  voice  is  as  loud  as  a  drum 
and  as  sweet  as  a  bag-pipe  and  I  hear  it  in  all 
quarters  of  the  House.  The  tympanum  of  Mossop 
is  so  affected  by  it,  that  he  is  afraid  to  come  back, 
three  days  ago  all  the  cats  ran  away  at  the  sound  of 
her  pipes  though  they  are  pretty  well  used  to  it.  If 
my  Lady  was  within  two  miles  of  you  you  never 
would  sleep  again.  ...  I  wish  to  heaven  I  was  safe 
out  of  her  clutches  and  talking  to  my  own  dear  Baby." 

In   1802  he  writes: — 

"  Tell  me  everything  you  hear,  but  beware  of 
personal  reflections  particularly  on  this  Lord  or  Lady. 
They  are  mere  Devils  for  jealousy  and  suspicion 
and  my  Lady  opens  all  post  letters  and  says,  '  it  is 
de  custom  of  dis  house!  ' 

In   1814  the  same  joke  continues  : — 

"  The  Earl  is  the  very  best  company  as  long  as  his 
mind  and  temper  are  under  his  own  government. 
My  lady  is  a  perfect  dragon  born  and  bred,  and  I 
might  as  well  try  to  break  her  neck  as  to  break  her 
heart,  which  she  accuses  me  of  wishing  to  do, 
however  I  think  I  have  got  her  down  at  last  veni 
vidi  vici  and  if  I  let  her  get  up  again  all  my  victories 
over  her  would  be  thrown  away.  You  must  know  she 
pretends  to  be  very  careful  of  the  letters  and  keeps 
the  key  of  the  post-bag  herself.  As  soon  as  she  gets 
it  she  locks  herself  up  and  opens  all  the  letters 
particularly  mine  to  know  what  I  say  of  her.  For 


1798]  ftbe  Brands  Xetters  449 

her  comfort  however  she  meets  with  nothing  but 
abuse  with  which  she  reproaches  me  when  she  forgets 
how  she  came  by  the  knowledge  of  it.  Though 
she  reads  incessantly  she  retains  nothing  having  no 
more  brains  than  a  sparrow  with  gall  enough  for  an 
ostrich.  I  write  all  this  con  amore  because  I  know 
not  a  word  of  it  will  be  lost  on  her." 


HARRIET  FRANCIS   TO   MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  nth  March,  1799. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

" .  .  .  We  were  so  lucky  as  to  get  the 
Prince's  Box  for  the  Messiah  on  Friday  and  were 
much  delighted  with  part  of  it.  On  Saturday  we  took 
Miss  Angerstein  to  the  Opera.  She  is  in  remarkable 
good  looks.  You  may  recollect  that  she  was  no 
favourite  of  mine  at  one  time,  but  that  is  no  longer  the 
case.  Yesterday  morning  the  3  Miss  Abrams  called 
upon  us,  they  are  very  well  behaved  Women,  and  pray 
tell  Catherine  that  they  made  particular  enquiries  after 
her.  My  father  dined  at  Lord  Thanet's,  where  there 
was  a  very  agreeable  Party.  Lady  Palmerston  had 
an  assembly  last  night,  it  might  be  said  of  Beauty 
and  Fashion.  It  was  very  fine  but  what  was  more 
material  to  us,  it  was  very  agreeable.  Mrs.  Stanhope 
looked  beautiful,  Miss  Seymour  was  much  admired 
but  I  do  not  think  her  a  pleasing  Beauty.  She 
supped  there  and  Lady  Cholmondeley  and  various 
others  too  tedious  to  mention. — we  were  not  at  home 
till  past  two.  .  .  .  The  Court  mourning  is  general 
everybody  was  in  Black  Muslins  last  night  and 
Elizabeth  sounding  the  depth  of  my  finances  has  this 


ffrancte  Xettets  [1799 

morning  bought  me  one.  You  know  that  she  is  rather 
correct  about  Publick  Decorum,  and  was  shocked  at 
my  appearing  again  in  a  White  Gown.  Tomorrow 
the  Palmerstons,  Stanhopes,  Col.  Payne  and  Dudley 
North  dine  here.  To-day  we  dine  at  Sloane's  where 
of  course  it  will  be  sufficiently  flat. 

"...  My  mother  is  very  well  excepting  a  cold 
and  at  this  moment  a  good  deal  occupied  by  preparing 
her  Court  Mourning. 

"  Yours  ever  most  sincerely, 

"  H.F." 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  Saturday. 

"  DEAREST  MARIE, 

"  .  .  .  I  suppose  you  know  that  Mr.  Anger- 
stein  has  bought  a  Box  at  Drury  Lane,  we  had 
secured  an  order  for  it  to  hear  Mrs.  Billington,  and 
after  dinner  in  your  Papa's  little  room  we  set  off  in 
time  for  the  opening  of  the  piece.  I  was  delighted 
with  the  first  Duo  between  Mrs.  B.  and  Mrs.  Moun- 
tain, in  every  other  part  of  the  Opera  I  think  Philip's 
judgment  perfect,  only  that  I  thought  her  singing  of 
*  The  soldier  tired '  not  only  masterly  but  elegant. 
However  I  came  away  convinced  that  she  can  never 
sing  to  the  heart  as  Banti  does,  nor  do  I  like  her 
recitation.  Mrs.  M.  is  a  graceful  little  creature  and 
sings  sweetly.  .  .  .  Mr.  Sloane  was  of  our  party 
...  we  had  a  very  agreeable  evening,  your  Papa 
as  much  amused  as  any  of  us  and  we  did  not  part 
without  Mr.  S.  engaging  us  all  to  dine  with  him  the 
next  day.  .  .  .  The  morning  was  spent  in  shopping 
and  we  arrived  in  Harley  St.,  at  ^  past  5,  found  only 


I799J  ftbe  jfnmcte  Xetters  451 

old  Mr.  Dickenson,  W.  Sloane  and  our  host.  We 
all  agreed  that  we  had  never  seen  Mr.  S.  so  cheerful 
or  so  amiable — we  stayed  till  near  eleven  playing  at 
cards  and  got  safe  home  through  a  fog  so  thick  that 
Harry  in  her  fright  wished  us  to  send  to  my  Father 
to  beg  him  to  stay  and  sleep  at  Brooks's,  this  of  course 
we  did  not  do. 

"Yrs,  CATTY." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HARRIET  FRANCIS. 

"  WOOBURN,1 

"  iqth  July,  1779. 

"  WORTHY  HARRIET  OR  RATHER  DIGNE  ENFANT, 

"Your  kind  letter  was  very  acceptable,  I 
should  say  comfortable,  considering  what  a  cold  wet 
day  it  is.  Thurloe  went  off  this  morning,  sulky  and 
growling,  but  we  have  had  sundry  recruits,  viz., 
Sheridan,  Lord  Holland,  Lord  Robert  Spencer  &c., 
&c.,  and  as  to  good  living,  suffice  it  to  say  that  I  am 
fat  enough  and  shall  take  myself  out  of  the  Coop 
tomorrow.  On  Sunday  I  must  dine  at  the  Tower.  .  .  . 
"  Remember  me  kindly  to  all  who  do  not  enquire 
for  me.  They  who  do,  need  not  be  reminded  of  me. 

"  Yours  and  theirs, 

"  P.  F." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  COURTEEN  HALL,* 
"  i8M  Sep.,  1799. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  .  .  .  In  spite  of  the  rain,  after  my  Father 
was  gone  to  Dinner,  Catherine  and  I  sallied  into  the 

1  Woburn,  the  seat  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford. 

2  Seat  of  Sir  W.  Wake. 


452  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1799 

streets,  to  various  shops,  which  detained  us  till  seven 
o'clock,  when  we  returned  to  an  excellent  Tea,  which 
served  us  for  Dinner  also.  The  next  morning  was, 
as  you  may  recollect  Divine,  and  we  were  in  the 
carriage  soon  after  six,  had  a  very  good  Breakfast 
at  Barnet,  where  we  parted  with  our  own  Horses, 
had  the  coach  box  taken  off,  and  went  post  the 
remainder  of  our  journey,  which  so  far  from  being 
fatiguing  was,  from  the  fineness  of  the  Day,  really 
a  Party  of  Pleasure.  We  got  here  at  half  past  6  to 
a  Dinner  that  was  extremely  acceptable  which  was 
served  in  China,  the  same  as  your  Tea  China  that  I 
admire  so  much,  and  all  the  Middle  (I  mean  dishes) 
of  Silver  by  candlelight  and  in  one  of  the  most  elegant 
rooms  you  ever  saw.  The  Library  you  would  be 
charmed  with,  four  sophas  very  low  and  plenty  of 
Cushions  and  Bolsters,  quantities  of  Roses  and  Jassa- 
mine  in  the  room.  Books  and  a  Piano  forte.  It  is 
impossible  to  be  more  at  your  ease,  in  any  place,  or 
for  anybody  to  behave  with  more  Politeness  and 
kindness  than  Lady  Wake.  You  know  that  he  is 
always  the  same.  .  .  .  We  had  made  a  party  to  see 
Althorpe  this  morning  but  it  is  put  off  which  I  am 
not  sorry  for.  .  .  .  Every  person  in  this  county  is 
devoted  to  Hunting  and  Shooting  and  you  cannot  get 
them  to  do  anything  else  of  a  morning,  but  by  no 
means  sleepy  country  squires  of  an  evening.  They 
subscribe  to  two  Libraries  at  Northampton  which 
added  to  their  own  Books  supply  you  with  sufficient 
reading,  plenty  of  Musick  and  Cards  fill  up  the 
evening.  My  Father  enjoys  the  Hunting  very  much 
and  his  Horse  has  behaved  like  a  Hero.  It  seems 


1799]  ^foe  Iftancte  ^Letters  453 

to  be  a  sociable  Neighbourhood,  and  a  great  deal  of 
Dinner  Company.  .  .  .  Philip's  life  is  devoted  to 
shooting  which  he  performs  on  a  very  quiet  pony  that 
stands  Fire.  I  never  saw  him  in  better  Health,  nor 
indeed  my  Father  in  better  health  ;  the  place  seems 
to  agree  with  them  admirably.  The  Park  is  small 
but  well  planted  and  full  of  sheep  and  cattle,  I  mean 
cows — of  which  I  am  not  afraid.  I  took  a  beautiful 
walk  yesterday  to  a  village  called  Quintin  to  see  a 
very  pretty  cottage  which  you  would  have  admired, 
and  how  much  I  should  have  liked  you  to  have  crossed 
the  fields  with  me,  the  air  was  so  pure  and  invigorating. 
The  house  is  noble,  in  spite  of  the  drawing-room  not 
being  finished,  which  it  would  take  2  thousand  Pounds 
to  do  properly.  The  Bedrooms  are  excellent  and 
handsomely  furnished.  The  kitchen  and  Pleasure 
Gardens  very  large  and  a  Shrubbery  measuring  a 
mile  and  a  half,  which  in  the  winter  in  this  dirty 
country  must  be  very  valuable  to  them.  There  is 
a  very  pretty  Rustick  church  in  the  Park,  where  I 
went  on  Sunday  and  heard  an  excellent  sermon — 
I  cannot  say  enough  in  praise  of  Lady  Wake's 
agreeableness,  kindness  and  politeness,  it  is  impossible 
not  to  like  her,  indeed  I  believe  my  father  is  charmed 
with  her.  I  have  had  a  long  letter  from  Lord 
Palmerston  with  an  account  of  his  Tour,  which  he 
seems  to  have  enjoyed  very  much.  .  .  .  and  so  the  Fat 
Creature  is  gone  to  Hartingfordbury,  I  suspected  that 
she  would  do  so.  ...  I  should  be  glad  to  hear  how 
poor  Johnson  is  going  on  and  I  hope  you  will  take 
some  evening  to  write  to  me  for  the  morning  I  know 
would  give  you  the  Head  Ache. 

VOL.    II.  8 


454  ^be  jfrancte  Xetters  [1799 

"  Of  course  you  never  will  first  or  last  shew  any  of 
my  letters  to  Johnson  and  that  you  always  destroy 
them  as  soon  as  read,  you  know  I  hate  writing  but 
I  shall  write  to  you  very  willingly  if  you  assure  me 
that  you  will  adhere  to  the  above  conditions.  .  .  .  and 
now  my  dear  Mary  I  must  take  my  leave  of  you. 
Inclosed  is  a  Letter  from  my  Mother,  so  I  say  nothing 
of  her,  Elizabeth  and  Catherine  join  me  in  affectionate 
regards  to  you  and  wishes  for  your  Happiness. 
"  Farewell,  Dearest  Mary, 

"  H.  F." 

Mary's  husband,  Godschall  Johnson,   spoken  of  so 
often  as  ailing,  died  early  in    1800. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTER  HARRIET. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
{'2%thjuly,  1799. 

"  DEARISSIMA  HENRIETTA, 

"  The  first  words  of  your  Letter  were  as 
good  as  Balm  to  me,  and  much  better  than  Honey, 
which  does  not  agree  with  me,  nor  ever  did,  as  you 
very  well  know, — tho'  not  why,  nor  Sir  Charles 
neither  to  whom  I  have  laid  open  that  part  of  my 
Constitution.  And,  since  he  cannot  explain  it,  who 
can  ?  But  whether  it  be  balm,  or  whether  it  be 
honey,  I  care  very  little.  I  can  bear  many  hardships 
but  Elizabeth's  Sorrow  is  not  one  of  them.  Many 
thanks,  or  as  a  Dutchess  says  ' grazie  tante"  \  you 
have  given  me  a  Cordial  against  the  rain  ;  whereof 
I  have  had  more  than  my  share.  At  Godstone,  the 
said  Rain  obliged  me  to  proceed  in  a  chaise  to 
Breton's,  where  I  passed  a  very  pleasant  day  ;  nobody 


1799]  TOe  jfrancis  Xetters  455 

there,  for  strangers,  but  a  little  Miss  T n,  who 

might  pass  for  two,  if  Quantity  stood  for  Numbers. 
.  .  .  Next  Morning  proceeded  to  this  place,  where 
my  Excellent  Friend  and  Debtor  James  Valance, 
insisted  on  my  lodging  at  his  House,  where  I  have 
two  excellent  Rooms,  and  everything  to  my  Mind. 
The  Races,  they  say,  are  but  indifferent,  and  the 
Company  worse — but  I  neither  know  nor  care,  though 
I  live  with  the  Jockeys.  .  .  .  Today  I  am  to  dine 
with  Sir  Godfrey,  and  tomorrow  Morning  I  return 
to  Bretons.  They  expected  their  son  on  the  day 
I  left  them. — If  you  hear  nothing  to  the  contrary, 
let  the  Chaise  be  at  Croydon  on  Wednesday,  time 
enough  for  me  to  set  off  from  thence  before  three, 
and  order  your  Dinner  at  \  past  five.  I  hope  the 
children  will  come  home  on  Saturday  at  farthest. 

"  Love  to  Sally. 

"  Duty  to  your  Mother. 

"  Compliments  to  Lord  and  Lady   P[almerston]. 

'*  And  Civilities  to  the  Cat,  who  I  think  should  be 
called  Timur  Shaw  in  future. 

"  Who  can  say  more  is  no  Man." 

Francis,  it  will  be  seen,  was  always  exceedingly  fond 
of  cats.  He  and  the  old  Doctor,  his  father,  had  one 
when  they  lived  together,  to  which  both  were  equally 
attached.  At  the  time  of  his  engagement  to  Miss 
Mackrabie,  to  which  his  father  objected,  there  was 
a  long  coolness,  during  which  father  and  son  never 
spoke  to  one  another.  At  dinner  each  addressed 
his  remarks  to  the  cat,  who  sat  on  a  chair  between 
them  during  the  repast.  Much  later  in  life,  after  his 
return  from  the  East,  Philip  Francis  had  a  favourite 


456  ftbe  ffrancis  ^Letters  [1799 

cat  at  his  house  in  St.  James's  Square  which  he  named 
"  Rama  Drug"  after  an  Indian  god.  This  beloved 
object  was  so  attached  to  his  master  that  once  during 
his  temporary  absence  from  home  he  refused  to  be 
consoled,  and  rushed  up  the  chimney  in  despair.  On 
his  master's  return  he  was  persuaded  to  come  down, 
wasted  to  a  skeleton.  Francis  let  the  vials  of  his 
wrath  loose  on  his  whole  family.  "You  have  among 
you,"  he  cried,  with  scathing  emphasis,  "  starved 
Rama  Drug!" 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"Octbr.  nth,  1799. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  ...  I  am  sure  you  will  be  glad  to  hear 
that  we  like  Brighton.  It  is  one  of  the  finest  Days 
perhaps  you  ever  saw  in  your  Life,  and  I  only  regret 
that  it  is  not  longer  that  I  might  have  more  time 
to  enjoy  it.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Concannon  arrived  last 
night,  my  Father  met  them  at  Mr.  Sneyds  where  he 
went  to  play  at  Whist.  The  Prince  likewise  came 
last  night  and  this  morning  soon  after  Breakfast 
walking  out  alone  upon  the  Steyne  I  met  him — 
nothing  could  be  more  kind  or  gracious,  he  turned 
about  and  walked  with  me  a  considerable  time,  and 
proposed  to  go  and  visit  my  Father,  but  I  told  him 
that  he  was  out,  he  met  him  soon  after  when  he 
invited  him  to  Dine  at  the  Pavillion  to  Day  which 
he  is  to  do.  His  Manners  are  certainly  charming 
and  he  looks  remarkably  well.  Lord  and  Lady 
John  Townshend  are  here  and  we  see  a  great  deal 
of  them, — he  is  as  he  has  always  been  a  most 


J799]  TOe  Jfrancte  ^Letters  457 

charming  man  and  I  have  not  seen  for  many  a  Day 
a  Person  I  like  as  much  as  I  do  her — she  is  not 
the  least  handsome  but  remarkably  pleasing  and 
what  I  call  agreeable.  She  is  a  great  Walker  and  so 
am  I  as  you  know,  Lord  John  is  gone  riding  with  my 
Father  and  Elizabeth  walking  with  her.  We  have  a 
very  good  House  certainly  in  the  gayest  situation 
of  Brighton.  Mr.  Eyre  was  so  unlucky  as  to  hurt  one 
of  his  Curricle  Horses  in  Driving  him  down  which 
prevents  his  taking  Elizabeth  out,  however  she  is 
very  well  and  the  bathing  agrees  with  her.  .  .  . 
Mrs.  Georges  enquired  very  much  after  you  and 
poor  Johnson.  They  have  a  charming  House  here 
for  which  they  give  12  Guineas  a  week.  We  give 
9  which  I  think  enough  for  such  poor  Folks  as 
we  are.  .  .  .  Lady  John  Townshend  has  admired 
your  Cloak  so  much  that  she  talks  of  trying  to  work 
one  like  it.  ...  My  Father  often  talks  with  the  most 
affectionate  kindness  of  *  Mary  and  our  2  Girls ' — John 
Godfrey  is  better  and  I  am  as  usual  in  great  Health. 
I  am  not  sure  that  this  Letter  will  ever  reach  you, 
but  I  could  not  prevail  upon  Lord  John  to  direct  it  in 
any  other  manner.  Farewell  my  Dear  Mary  and 
believe  me  ever, 

"  Most  affectionately  yours 

«H.  F. 

"  I  should  be  happy  to  hear  from  you  when  you 
have  a  leisure  half  hour." 

Lord  John  Townshend  was  an  intimate  friend  of 
Fox's,  through  whose  exertions  he  gained  a  triumphant 
victory  over  Lord  Hood  at  the  election  of  1788  as 
member  for  Westminster,  with  a  majority  of  800 


4$8  ttbe  jftancis  Xetters  [1799 

votes.  The  riots  in  London  on  that  occasion  are 
said  to  have  been  nearly  as  disgraceful  as  those 
of  1784. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTERS. 

"PETWORTH, 

"  Sunday \  27  Oct.,  1799. 

"  MES    ENFANS, 

"  Je  saisis  F  occasion  du  depart  dun  courier 
du  chevalier  Godfrey  pour  vous  faire  savoir  que  je  ne 
suis  pas  mort,  malgrt  tons  les  efforts,  que  I' on  fait  id 
pour  me  faire  crtver.  Le  titre  de  pere  auquel  vous  me 
paroissez  avoir  renonce1,  mappartient  deja  pour  la  Vie. 

"La  Bonte1,  et  si  je  I'ose  dire,  Pamitit  de  S.A.R., 
ne  s'est  jamais  demcntie  un  moment — enfin  on  ne  peut 
pas  pousser  plus  loin  le  veritable  bon  coeur. 

"As  to  this  place,  all  I  can  say  is,  the  Magnificence, 
Beauty,  Luxury  and  Hospitality  of  Petworth,  leave 
everything  I  ever  saw  at  a  great  distance,  but  of  all 
this  hereafter.  I  hope  to  see  you  before  friday.  If 
not  you  shall  hear  again.  Entre  nous,  I  begin  to  pine 
for  the  Mutton  chops  and  pure  element  of  Sheen. 
"  Yours  care  bambine  con  Amore, 

"  P.  F. 

11  My  humble  Duty  to  Lady  John  and  the  fair 
Jennings." 

SARAH  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON  AFTER  THE  DEATH 
OF  HER  HUSBAND. 

"  EAST  SHEEN, 
11  Sunday  Night.    (Early  in  1800.) 

"  MY  OWN, 

"...   I  have  made  the  enquiry  with  respect 
to  the  Mourning,  and  what  you  are  to  do  is  this,  you 


i8oo]  ftbe  jfrancts  %etters  459 

must  continue  the  same  shaped  gown  with  long  sleeves, 
weepers,  crape  handkerchief,  cap,  etc.,  you  now  wear 
till  the  end  of  the  first  six  months,  at  which  time  you 
must  have  a  round  Gown  of  Bombazin  with  short 
sleeves  made  of  crape  and  ornamented  with  the  same, 
as  fancy  directs — Your  head  dress  anything  you  like, 
but  what  must  not  be  omitted  is  a  black  Mode  Cloak 
richly  quilted  with  broad  hem'd  crape,  all  this  is  to  be 
worn  till  nearly  the  end  of  four  Months  more,  then 
a  black  silk  for  six  weeks,  and  the  last  fortnight  or 
three  weeks  black  and  white,  or  plain  white. 

"Godschall1  was  here  yesterday,  he  is  much  im- 
proved and  I  think  will  make  what  Mrs.  Chandler 
would  call  '  a  very  pretty  Gentleman/  I  am  afraid  he 
will  find  the  Prince  of  Wales's  Regiment  very  expen- 
sive, but  a  young  man  should  have  some  ambition  so 
/  forgive  him.  ...  I  called  upon  Mrs.  Burt  the  other 
morning.  .  .  .  Colonel  Paulett  was  there  and  from 
some  observations  I  have  no  doubt  but  that  Mary 
Gascoyne  is  a  Bride  elect,  his  recent  acquisition  of 
fortune  is  a  good  two  thousand  a  year  with  an  excellent 
house,  beautiful  grounds  &c.  but  I  understand  he  has 
no  thoughts  of  leaving  Twickenham.  .  .  . 

"  Ever  your  Affectionate, 

"S.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZABETH  AND  CATHERINE. 

"ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"tfhjuly^  1800. 

"  DIGNES  ENFANS, 

"  Wednesday    was    a    day    of   Triumph    at 
Sheen. — Plot,  Character,  Dialogue,  increasing  Interest, 
1  Mrs.  Godschall  Johnson's  stepson. 


460  ZTbe  jfrancfs  ^Letters  [1800 

and  a  brilliant  Catastrophe,  made  it  a  perfect  piece. 
Before  the  Curtain  drew  up,  Philips,  The  cursed 
Poulterer,  had  thrown  Harriet  into  Fits,  the  old 
Lady  wept,  and  Zara  raved.  It  was  a  pitiful 
sight. 

"  Yesterday  I  came  to  London  to  dine  on  Turtle 
with  the  said  Earl  of  Thanet  and  many  Lords,  and 
then  to  Brookes's. 

"  Tomorrow  I  shall  take  Harriet  to  breakfast  at 
Chiswick  where  you  were  all  invited. 

"  For  all  these  Losses  the  Baroness  is  answerable 
and  must  give  Credit. 

"If  our  wise  Ministers  were  to  succeed  in  Their 
Schemes,  it  would  be  the  ruin  of  public  Credit ;  their 
Measures  are  defeated  and  Stocks  rise  accordingly. 

"  P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTER  CATHERINE. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"8/fc  August,  1800. 

"  WORTHY  INFANT, 

"  I  shall  dine  at  Sheen  on  Sunday  being 
obliged  to  go  to  town  the  next  day  on  Business. 
On  Tuesday  I  return  to  this  place,  and  shall  stay  at 
least  a  Week  because  the  Celebration  cannot  be  till 
Monday  Sennight,  on  account  of  Lewes  Races  as 
Mr.  Wade  tells  me. 

"  By  all  means  go  to  Balls  on  Wednesday  next. 

"  The  Macmahons1  came  the  day  before  yesterday, 
but  cannot  have  the  House  till  the  Races  are  over.  .  .  . 
So  there  she  is  in  a  Lodging,  bite  and  cry.  .  .  . 

1  Mr.  John  (afterwards  Colonel)  Macmahon,  was  Keeper  of  the 
Privy  Purse  to  the  Prince  of  Wales  and  one  of  his  secretaries. 


i8oo]  ZTbe  jFrancis  ^Letters  461 

"  I  fancy  I  shall  have  secured  a  House  for  Mary. 
Last  night  conversed  vigorously  with  Mesdames 
Jersey,  Phyn,  Boehm,  Stanhope,  Davidson  &c.,  and 
this  morning  won  half  a  crown  of  Miss  Dn.  and  left 
her  roaring  on  the  Course. 

"  Any  person  who  thinks  Life  too  short  may  take 
a  voyage  to  India,  or  Lodging  at  St.  Helena. 

"  Yours  con  amore, 

"  P.  F. 

"  Very  sorry  for  the  throat  of  Elizabeth." 
PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTERS. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"  igth  August,  1800. 

"  DEAR  ELIZABETH  AND  DEAR  HARRIET, 

"  This  sweet  place  is  not  at  all  like  Balls, 
tho'  it  produced  a  very  fine  one  last  night,  and  a 
beautiful  Supper  at  which  I  assisted  with  a  pretty 
Davidson  on  each  side  of  me.  They  are  both  in 
love  with  me,  to  say  nothing  of  the  Widow,  or  of 
Mrs.  Ray,  or  Miss  Dallas. 

"  Mrs.  Davidson's  Hall  is  in  the  Street,  or  she  has 
none.  Her  Drawing-room  is  6  foot  one  way  and  nine 
the  other,  and  everything  else  in  proportion,  except 
herself. 

"  Mrs.  Macmahon  got  possession  of  her  house 
yesterday  and  charming  it  is. 

"  I  shall  make  you  stare  with  the  Account  I  can 
give  of  persons.  In  the  meantime  be  satisfied  with 
a  List  of  their  Names. 

"  Mrs.  Hastings,  Mrs.  Scott  Waring,  Marchioness 
of  Wolseley,  Countess  of  Lucan,  Lady  Impey, 


462  ftbe  jfrancte  Xettets  [1800 

Countess  of  Berkeley,  Lady  Anne  Lambton,  Lady 
Sarah  Bailey,  Lady  Jersey,  Mrs.  Wilmot,  Duchess  of 
Marlborough,  Marchioness  of  Donegal,  and  the  Lord 
knows  how  many  more,  all  as  good  as  those  I  have 
reckoned.  Tomorrow  I  go  to  Sheen,  today  I  do 
nothing  but  envy  you  the  happiness  of  such  society. 
Poor  Mary,  it  is  impossible  to  get  a  house  for  her. 
It  is  so  hot  that  I  cannot  express  myself  properly  to 
Lord  and  Lady  John,  but  to  the  fair  Audrey  I  am 
devoted  as  she  well  knows. 

"  Your  injured  Sire, 

"  P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  HIS  FAMILY. 

"COURTEEN  HALL, 

"  1800. 
"  To  all  whom  it  may  concern, 

"  The  beginning,  progress  and  end  of  an  Expedi- 
tion into  Wales,  undertaken  by  Mr.  Philip  Francis, 
a  superannuated  Barrister,  in  the  hottest  part  of 
the  summer  1800. 

"  Set  out  with  Val-de  Cham — and  90  Lb.  weight 
of  Luggage  from  the  Golden  Cross  Charing  Cross, 
in  a  certain  Vehicle  called  a  slap-bang,  made  for  TO 
inside  passengers,  but  carrying  twelve — seven  on  the 
outside  besides  Coachman,  and  an  immense  weight 
of  boxes,  portmanteaus,  parcels  &c.  on  the  top — a 
blue  cloudless  sky,  and  scorching  sun,  that  had  forgot 
the  Dog  days  were  over ;  with  the  direction  of  the 
air  (if  indeed  anything  besides  the  dust  could  be  said 
to  be  in  motion)  at  setting  out  North  west,  afterwards 
South  West.  A  constant  noise  in  our  ears,  like  that 
of  a  fire-engine  dragged  along  the  streets,  made  it 


i8oo]  tlbe  jf  rands  betters  463 

clear  that  the  carriage  really  proceeded,  a  point  that 
upon  a  cursory  comparison  of  times  and  distances, 
one  should  have  been  inclined  to  doubt.  In  the 
course  of  50  miles  the  company  were  called  upon  6 
different  times  to  get  out  and  walk  in  the  road  to 
relieve  the  horses.  The  Coachman  might  well  fear 
that  four  horses  should  not  succeed  in  doing  that, 
which  any  one  would  have  thought  hard  work  for  six. 
However  that  be,  the  fact  is  equally  true  that  by 
way  of  Variety,  the  passengers  took  six  walks  of 
nearly  a  quarter  of  a  mile  each  through  oceans  and 
clouds  of  dust,  (for  it  lay  in  waves  and  rose  in  vapour) 
and  under  the  direct  scorching  heat  of  the  sun.  It 
must  be  confessed  however  that  the  inside  of  the 
vehicle  had  nothing  to  reproach  the  outside  with  upon 
the  Subject  of  dust — which  came  in  at  10  regular 
openings  besides  cracks  and  crannies.  The  noses 
of  the  passengers  were  filled  with  it  and  got  colds. 
Their  throats  and  lungs  were  filled  with  it,  and  they 
got  coughs.  The  Heat  cannot  be  described  by  any- 
one, nor  even  conceived  but  by  those  who  felt  it. 
One  of  the  company  had  2  entertaining  books  with 
him — but  it  was  too  hot  to  read — no  one  was  disposed 
to  converse,  but  all  to  complain.  We  then  looked  to 
sleep  for  relief.  It  was  alas  !  too  hot  to  sleep.  This 
same  person  came  to  a  clear  determination — that  no 
consideration  should  ever  again  induce  him  to  get 
into  a  slap-bang  for  a  summer's  journey — but  a  circum- 
stance soon  occurred  which  made  him  get  out  of  this 
as  soon  as  possible.  About  3  miles  on  this  side  of 
Stony  Stratford,  (it  was  now  8  in  the  evening,  so 
that  we  had  been  13  hours  going  48  miles)  the  bang 


464  ftfoe  jfrancte  ^Letters  [1800 

was  observed  to  be  crazy — to  warp  and  give,  with 
every  turn  of  this  rough  and  stony  road,  and  to  strain, 
as  if  about  to  come  to  pieces  from  the  weight  within 
and  without,  particularly  on  the  outside  on  which  this 
gentleman  sat.  Upon  which  he  and  another  got  out 
and  walking  a  few  yards  behind  it  to  observe  its 
motion,  they  saw  very  plainly  that,  upon  any  sidelong 
road,  it  must  infallibly  fall  to  pieces.  They  deter- 
mined not  to  get  in  again — and  the  rest  of  the 
company  in  a  little  time  becoming  equally  sensible 
of  the  danger  got  out  also,  and  most  of  them  walked 
the  rest  of  the  way  to  Stony  Stratford.  There  the 
Coachman  pretended  that  by  altering  the  situation 
of  the  weight  and  luggage,  he  could  make  the  carriage 
perfectly  safe.  I  for  one  determined  not  to  trust 
myself  for  the  night  to  such  a  carriage — in  which 
determination  I  was  assisted  by  a  violent  headach 
and  sickness,  the  effect  as  I  conceive  of  a  coup  du 
soleil,  or  something  like  it.  At  Stony  Stratford 
therefore  I  took  out  my  luggage,  bid  adieu  to  my 
Welsh  scheme,  put  myself  and  Val,  into  a  post  chaise, 
and  arrived  at  Courteen  Hall  at  1 1  o'clock  to  the 
surprise  and  dismay  of  the  Family. — Wake  got  out 
of  bed  to  come  down  and  receive  me,  and  con- 
gratulated me  at  once  upon  my  escape  and  arrival. — 
This  morning  I  am  better  but  still  weak  and  unwell 
from  what  I  have  undergone.  Good  God  what  a 
day  it  is !  If  possible  hotter  than  yesterday!  I 
should  certainly  have  gone  mad  in  the  bang !  I 
have  resolved  not  to  quit  these  walls  till  a  fall  of 
rain.  .  .  .  And  so  my  dear  Mama  ends  your 
dutiful  son's  melancholy  story.  Every  word  of 


i8oo]  ZTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  465 

which  you   and  all  who  read   may  believe  for    it    is 
literally  true. 

"  P.  F." 


CATHERINE  AND  SARAH  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  LONDON, 
"Feb.  n,  1801. 

"  DEAREST  MARIKIN, 

"  I  have  just  got  your  letter  .  .  .  you 
shall  hear  constantly  from  us,  and  I  assure  you  these 
are  times  that  produce  events  worthy  your  attention. 
The  Ministry  are  changed,  Mr.  Pitt  is  out  of  Office, 
also  Ld.  Spencer,  Windham,  Dundas,  Ld.  Grenville 
and  of  course  all  their  adherents  and  to  the  surprise 
of  the  whole  town  Mr.  Addington  the  Speaker  is 
chosen  to  succeed  Mr.  Pitt,  the  other  arrangements 
are  not  yet  concluded  but  the  confusion  all  this  has 
occasioned  in  this  busy  town  cannot  easily  be  described, 
it  is  supposed  that  this  new  administration  will  not 
stand.  What  next  may  arise  is  in  the  Book  of  fate, 
but  a  change  may  lead  to  peace  and  the  very  idea  of 
it  enlivens  one.  When  Mr.  P.  is  no  longer  Minister 
one  knows  not  what  may  happen,  pray  get  the  papers 
and  read  all  the  debates  and  everything  concerning 
the  subject,  you  will  be  greatly  interested.  .  .  . 

"  Catherine  is  unequal  to  finishing  this  and  desires 
me  to  do  so  though  without  telling  me  what  to  say. 
The  Law  arrangements  are  certainly  fixed  and  at 
present  I  believe  the  only  ones  that  may  be  depended 
upon.  Lord  L.,  I  mean  the  Chancellor,  to  be  suc- 
ceeded by  Ld.  Eldon,  Mr.  Lewis  who  you  may 
remember  both  to  have  heard  and  seen,  to  be  Attorney 


466  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1801 

General.  Mr.  Percival  to  be  Solicitor  General  and 
Mr.  Grant  Master  of  the  Rolls. — There  is  an  end  of 
Lord  Castlereagh  and  of  course  Elliott  also.  The 
Duke  of  Portland  is  still  in  but  it  is  said  not  for  long. 
Cholmondeley  is  here,  dressing,  going  to  the  Levee 
just  to  prove  he  is  alike  satisfied  with  those  that 
are  in  and  those  that  are  out.  .  .  .  Cawthorne  has 
sent  you  a  good  French  Dictionary  which  Elise  shall 
take  charge  of;  that  little  Child,  with  Emily,  comes  to 
us  on  Friday  for  a  couple  of  nights  which  are  to  be 
alternately  spent  at  the  Play  and  at  the  Opera  House. 
I  have  just  read  a  tolerable  English  novel  called 
Adonia,  see  if  you  can  get  it.  ...  I  have  been  very 
indifferent  ever  since  you  left  us.  ...  Ever  yours 
darling  Marie 

"S.  F." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  WAVERLEY, 
41 2gtA  January,  1801. 

"  MY  DEAREST  MARY, 

"  .  .  .  Tuesday  was  a  Spring  Day.  I 
took  a  very  long  farewell  Walk  at  Broadlands,  only 
Mr.  W.  at  dinner  and  two  French  Gentlemen  in  The 
Evening,  which  we  passed  agreeably  in  Work,  Con- 
versation and  Cards — they  have  impaired  my  Finances 
very  considerably  but  in  pleasant  Company  I  cannot 
mind  it.  Yesterday,  Wednesday,  we  were  up  in  good 
time,  and  I  made  the  Breakfast,  Ld.  P.  soon  appeared, 
and  the  rest  of  the  Company  soon  joined  us.  I  wished 
the  *  Fiero  istante '  of  parting  over,  it  was  to  appear 
to  be  without  Emotion,  but  it  was  felt  with  great. 
Sentimental  feelings  are  out  of  Fashion,  and  I  am 


i8oi]  <&be  jfrancte  Xetters  467 

too  great  an  Admirer  of  the  present  Modes  ever  to 
betray  what  passes  in  my  Heart.  We  all  kissed, 
I  muttered  something  like  an  acknowledgment  of  all 
their  kindness  and  got  into  the  Chaise.  I  have 
passed  a  month  there  very  chearfully  and  agreeably, 
some  hours  very  much  so,  Lady  P.  did  her  utmost 
to  please  us,  and  in  future  I  mean  to  shew  her 
that  I  am  not  ungrateful." 

Apparently  Catherine  and  Harriet  had  been  together 
at  Broadlands. 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

[No  date,  1801  ?] 

"  .  .  .  You  know  how  kind  Miss  Angerstein  has 
always  been  to  me  and  I  must  tell  you  of  a  pretty 
present  she  made  me  the  other  day.  You  may 
remember  the  bead  Bandeau  Elisa  made  for  me  last 
year.  My  present  is  a  complete  cap  of  Beads  which 
covers  all  my  hair  and  has  a  very  good  effect. 

(CONTINUED  BY   HARRIET  FRANCIS.) 

"Your  black  Sister  wrote  the  above  last  night, 
and  I  go  on  in  continuation.  .  .  .  Friday  your 
sister,  the  fat  cat,  got  two  tickets  for  the  new  Vocal 
concert  to  which  she  went  with  Mrs.  Tierney, — 
I  dropped  in  with  your  Brother  to  a  party  at  Mrs. 
Crewes,  she  has  laid  2  rooms  into  one  and  made 
it  very  nice.  There  were  a  great  many  men  but 
very  few  Ladies.  .  .  .  There  was  a  good  deal  of 
Music  in  the  course  of  the  evening,  and  one  part 
of  it  charmed  me,  a  young  Irishman,  a  Mr.  Moore 
who  composes  both  words  and  music,  a  tiny  Tenor 


468  Hbe  jfrancis  Xettets  [1801 

Voice.  The  performance  was  upon  the  whole  Unique, 
I  never  heard  anything  that  resembled  it,  the  first 
song  described  all  the  Mistresses  he  had  had,  and 
at  last  is  conquered  by  Chloe,  rather  comick  but 
very  sentimental — he  is  to  come  here  some  evening 
soon.  .  .  .  Yesterday  Lord  Palmerston  came  and 
gave  Sally  £$  for  the  French — it  was  a  sad  wet 
night  so  I  very  comfortably  for  a  shilling  went  in 
a  chair  to  the  Opera,  met  Mrs.  Maude  in  the  box, 
she  is  very  pretty  and  equally  agreeable.  I  gave 
Ralph  a  ticket  for  the  Opera  which  together  with 
the  new  Dance  was  a  charming  performance,  and 
the  Pit  quite  full.  It  was  a  new  serious  Opera,  by 
name  '  Alzide '  taken  from  Voltaire.  .  .  . 

"H.  F. 

11  Sunday  Evening." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  Saturday. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

11 ...  I  think  you  are  mad  to  think  of  the 
Loan  ever  mounting  to  8  premium  but  of  course 
your  orders  will  be  obeyed.  It  was  a  charming  party 
last  night  at  Mrs.  Crewe's,  Musick  and  Company  in 
the  2  large  Rooms,  supper  in  the  2  smaller  and 
after  supper  the  Carpet  taken  up  and  a  Fiddle 
and  Harp.  .  .  .  Catharine  just  returned  from  a 
Ride  with  your  Papa,  who  looks  better  and  hand- 
somer every  day,  Philip  and  Mr.  Eyre.  ...  On 
Monday  I  shall  not  have  time  to  write  as  my  time 
will  be  taken  up  with  the  Dinner.  Palmerstons, 
Sloanes,  Maudes,  Mr.  Elliott,  D.  North — in  the 
evening  there  is  to  be  a  grand  Musick  Party  at 


i8oi]  ttbe  jfrancts  betters  469 

Mr.  Angerstein's.  I  have  got  a  quantity  of  double 
Violets,  I  wish  I  could  send  some  to  you.  Your 
Sisters  looked  their  best  last  night.  My  Mother  is 
charmed  with  the  little  one's  Letter.  Farewell. 

"H.  F. 
"  Burn  my  letters." 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"Si.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"  Tuesday  Night,  March  19,  1801. 

"  My  OWN  MARIE, 

" .  .  .  Last  night  we  had  a  party  here, 
it  was  larger  than  usual  and  went  off  with  spirit.  .  .  . 
The  Miss  Abrams  were  our  great  support,  and  with 
the  Thomsons,  Miss  Tate  and  our  own  little  powers 
made  up  a  charming  concert.  We  had  besides  a 
Mr.  Moore,  an  Irish  gentleman,  whose  singing  is 
at  this  moment  quite  the  fashion.  You  would  be 
charmed  with  it  though  great  judges  pretend  to  laugh, 
he  sings  only  Ballads  of  his  own  Composition  both 
words  and  music,  but  they  are  well  suited,  with 
the  smallest  voice  you  ever  heard,  taste,  and  a 
perfect  articulation,  so  that  you  lose  none  of  the 
poetry.  I  was  much  pleased  and  so  was  the  greater 
part  of  the  company.  We  sat  down  five  and  thirty 
to  supper  Godschall  one  of  our  smartest  beaus  and 
Ralpho  looking  very  well.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Llewellyn 
enjoyed  meeting  some  of  the  old  happy  party  of 
Harley  St.  Young  Elliott  was  with  us  and  it  was 
pleasant  to  see  that  we  were  not  separated  from 
all  our  former  friends.  Poor  Fanny  is  so  much 
altered  that  at  first  no  one  acknowledged  her  for  the 
gay  smart  Miss  Goring  of  Ten  years  ago.  You  never 

VOL.  n.  9 


47&  ftbe  Jftancts  ^Letters  [1801 

saw  so  bad  a  Dresser,  think  of  a  morning  Cap  with 
a  Diamond  Pin  stuck  in  front  and  long  earrings 
laying  on  her  Shoulders. — but  she  is  as  sensible  as 
ever  and  I  was  quite  happy  to  have  her  amongst 
us  once  more.  She  leads  but  a  dull  life  with  Mrs. 
Goring  who  is  as  vulgar  as  maybe,  however  I  trust 
she  will  do  handsomely  by  her  Daughter  and  make 
up  for  neglecting  her  all  her  youth  back.  .  .  .  The 
Bretons  were  here  Monday,  Elisa  looking  very 
handsome  indeed,  but  a  display  that  would  have 
been  better  concealed ;  by  the  way,  this  fashion  is 
come  to  a  pass  that  would  shock  you  quiet  modest 
Ladies.  Handkerchiefs,  Tuckers  &c.  are  entirely 
laid  aside,  and  it  is  Nature  displayed  with  (as  Philip 
says)  a  Vengeance.  ...  I  must  not  forget  to  inform 
you  that  I  have,  begun  learning  to  sing  of  Cimador, 
and  like  him  very  much." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

" .  .  .  We  had  a  very  pleasant  chearful 
day  at  Mrs.  Webbs  on  Wednesday,  and  in  spite  of  the 
times  a  most  Elegant  and  expensive  Dinner.  Only 
think  of  a  couple  of  small  Chickens  costing  17 
shillings  and  everything  else  dear  in  the  same  pro- 
portion. Thursday  Elizabeth  and  I  went  with  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Tierney  to  see  '  Deaf  and  Dumb,'  it  is  an 
interesting  story  and  very  well  got  up.  Yesterday 
.  .  .  Elizabeth,  Philip,  and  I  went  early  to  Lady 
Palmerston's,  in  expectation  of  seeing  Lady  Hamilton, 
but  we  were  disappointed  she  was  111  and  did  not  go. 

.  .   I  am  to    dine    early    with   Mrs.  Webb  and  go 


1801]  Ube  ffnmcte  betters  471 

with  her  to  the  Magdalen.     I    wish   you  could  be  of 
our   party,   you   would    be    very   much   pleased   and 
affected  by  it.  ... 

"  Farewell  dearest  Marie, 

«H.  F." 
THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  SHEEN, 
"Sunday  Evening. 

"  Lord  Palmerston  came  to  Dinner,  and  Mr. 
Mossop,  the  Clergyman,  a  very  well-behaved, 
sensible  Man — we  have  had  a  pleasant  dinner,  my 
father  behaving  in  his  best  manner  to  the  Young 
Man." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  ...  I  went  in  the  evening  to  the 
Prince's  Box  at  Covent  Garden.  It  was  offered  to 
us  very  late  in  the  day  but  to  see  a  new  Play  and 
beautiful  after  Piece  ('  Perouse ')  was  not  to  be  refused, 
so  your  brother  and  I  went,  I  sent  to  Mr.  Eyre  to 
come,  he  could  not,  but  Ralph  happened  to  be  dining 
with  him  and  set  off  instantly.  I  sent  the  coach  for 
John  Godfrey  which  was  the  whole  of  the  party.  We 
were  very  merry  and  delighted  with  the  performance. 
I  left  Ralph  in  possession  of  the  Box  in  the  middle  of 
the  Farce  and  withdrew  to  Mr.  Godfrey's  where  I 
found  a  most  inviting  supper  waiting  my  arrival. 

"...  Elizabeth  dines  at  Mr.  Angerstein's  to- 
day and  goes  to  the  Ancient  Music,  Catherine  at  Mr. 
Tate's,  Your  Papa  at  Lord  Thanet's,  and  your  Brother 
and  I  are  going  in  the  evening  to  Miss  Berry's.  .  .  . 

"  God  bless  you, 

«H.  F." 


472  ^be  ffrancfs  betters  [1801 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  Monday ',  iyrd  March. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  I  had  got  a  frank  to  write  to  you  on  Satur- 
day but  I  really  could  not  find  a  quarter  of  an  hour  at 
my  own  disposal.  I  set  out  upon  a  walk  immediately 
after  Breakfast  to  Miss  Tate's  in  Grosvenor  Place, 
caught  in  the  Rain  on  my  return,  took  a  Felucca,  the 
Coachman  chose  to  take  the  Westminster  Route, 
thought  that  I  should  be  overturned  in  petty  France, 
insisted  upon  getting  out  which  I  did  in  a  sea  of  Mud. 
Blew  a  Hurricane  and  in  this  state  of  Things  walked 
home  fatigued  to  Death,  changed  my  Dress,  various 
Visitors,  Coach  at  the  Door,  taken  out  to  visit  till  near 
Dinner  Time.  When  we  get  home  find  a  Box  from 
Mr.  Boucharett  in  Lincolnshire  containing  a  great 
quantity  of  the  most  beautiful  natural  flowers,  Roses 
Provence,  Blush,  and  Moss,  Pinks,  Double  Wall- 
flowers, Beautiful  Hyacinths,  Orange  Flowers  in 
perfection,  various  beautiful  Geraniums  it  was  a  most 
valuable  and  delicious  present. 

"  The  party  on  Friday  at  Mrs.  Thomsons  was  very 
numerous  and  some  good  Musick.  Cimador  was 
there,  he  is  a  charming  singer.  .  .  .  Farewell  dearest 
Mary.  .  .  .  Have  you  burnt  every  one  of  my  letters  ? 

"H.  F." 
THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

Sunday  Evening ,  April  6,  1801. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

" .  .  .  I  never  told  you  nor  ever  shall 
that  your  present  life  would  be  agreeable  to  my  Taste, 
but  on  the  other  hand,  London  is  so  dissipated  a  place 


i8oi]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  473 

that  you  never  I  believe  will  be  able  to  live  in  it — no 
doubt  it  appears  to  you  that  we  have  our  share  of 
Gaiety  and  Amusement,  but  compare  our  Lives  with 
most  of  our  Acquaintance  and  see  what  the  account 
would  be  ;  we  in  Comparison  would  seem  to  lead  the 
Lives  of  Hermits.  ...  I  advise  you  to  have  a 
little  new  Milk  every  morning  and  sleep  an  hour  after 
it,  it  will  fatten  you  and  there  is  no  Beauty  in  these 
days  without  Flesh.  Elisabeth  and  I  went  yesterday 
in  the  Landaulet  to  Sheen.  .  .  .  Catherine  rode 
there  with  Mr.  Eyre  but  returned,  we  dined  upon  Cold 
Meat,  and  in  the  Cool  of  the  Evening  had  a  most 
delicious  Ride  to  Town,  no  Sun  or  Dust.  My  Father 
dined  out  as  usual  which  left  us  at  Liberty  to  execute 
this  little  scheme  ...  we  sat  an  hour  upon  the 
Lawn  after  Dinner  recalling  many  things  that  are 
past.  .  .  . 

"  Farewell  Dearest  Mary. 

"  H.  F." 

Mrs.  Godschall  Johnson  lived  in  the  country. 
CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  Thursday ',  April,  1801. 

"  MY  DEAREST  MARIE, 

"  I  suppose  you  have  seen  from  the  papers 
the  great  events  that  have  taken  place  in  the  last  3 
days.  I  inclose  you  the  two  notes  which  gave  us  the 
first  intelligence  of  the  death  of  the  Emperor,1  and  you 
may  believe  we  have  been  guided  by  them,  how  much 
we  rejoice  that  you  had  steadiness  to  resist  our 

1  Paul,  the  Tsar  of  Russia,  and  father  of  Alexander  I.     He  was, 
in  fact,  put  to  death  by  his  courtiers. 


474  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  [1801 

persuasions  about  the  loan,  it  is  rising  so  fast  that  we 
have  determined  to  keep  ours  till  it  is  ten  per  cent, 
the  news  of  our  Victory  at  Copenhagen  will  of  course 
raise  the  stocks  considerably  and  before  it  was  known 
they  were  at  seven.  I  dined  yesterday  in  Pall  Mall, 
you  never  saw  a  more  joyous  party,  the  Thomsons, 
Bonars,  Boucharetts  and  all  the  Angersteins,  the  death 
of  Paul  makes  the  difference  only  of  five  Thousand 
a  year  to  Mr.  Thomson  and  in  proportion  all  the 
rest  are  affected  by  it.  I  was  the  only  person  not 
[nearly  ?]  and  personally  interested  and  yet  I  could 
not  but  feel  for  my  friends,  to  say  nothing  of  yours, 
and  our  little  fortunes  that  are  pending.  I  do  suppose 
the  death  of  one  individual  never  gave  more  general 
happiness.  Poor  Count  Worenzow  had  received 
positive  orders  to  leave  this  country,  he  had  taken 
many  steps  in  consequence,  bid  adieu  to  all  his  friends, 
and  was  on  the  eve  of  his  departure  when  the 
dispatches  arrive,  and  every  assurance  from  the  new 
Emperor  that  restoration  shall  be  made  to  him  and 
that  his  friends  in  England  may  be  easy  on  his  account 
— think  what  a  change  from  the  prospect  of  all  the 
horrors  of  Siberia,  and  perhaps  worse ;  I  suppose 
there  never  was  a  more  wicked  madman  than  the  late 
Emperor.  Tonight  there  are  to  be  illuminations  in 
honour  of  the  victory.  They  say  that  Lord  Nelson 
has  outdone  himself  but  it  was  a  bloody  engagement, 
and  that  consideration  must  always  damp  the  joy 
of  such  an  event,  thank  God  we  have  no  friends 
to  grieve  for.  .  .  .  The  King  is  much  better  and 
the  Lord  Chancellor  has  resigned  the  seals  to  Lord 
Eldon." 


GEORGE,   PRINCE    OF    WALES. 


Page  475-] 


i8oi]  ftbe  jftancfs  Xettets  475 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  We  hope  to  hear  of  you  today  my  own  Marie, 
and  that  you  are  well  pleased  at  the  finale  of  your 
little  adventure  in  the  stocks,  we  are  all  delighted  and 
the  more  so  as  there  is  no  reason  to  expect  that  you 
would  have  been  more  fortunate  had  you  waited  still 
longer.  We  think  of  selling  in  a  day  or  two  unless 
some  new  event  should  give  us  better  hopes  of  peace. 
I  take  it  for  granted  that  you  much  love  a  little  bit 
of  news  and  have  myself  great  pleasure  in  telling  it 
you.  The  k.  you  may  have  seen  by  the  papers  is  so 
much  recovered  as  to  have  rode  to  Blackheath  on 
Saturday,  and  with  his  health  his  affection  for  our 
dear  Prince  is  reviving,  he  has  expressed  it  lately  in 
many  ways.  They  had  a  tete  a  t£te  dinner  the  other 
day  and  we  hear  that  he  shewed  him  the  strongest 
proofs  of  affection,  saying  how  much  he  always  loved 
him  tho'  he  had  not  appeared  to  do  so  lately,  that  he 
knew  he  had  no  vices  and  that  he  had  been  too 
severe  on  his  frailties ;  he  has  given  him  his  favourite 
Hanoverian  Horse,  and  in  short  they  are  all  harmony 
and  happiness  ;  the  Prince  is  much  affected  by  this 
change  you  may  suppose.  Lizzy  met  him  at  half  past 
nine  this  morning  in  the  Park  going  to  B.  House. 
All  his  friends  are  much  interested  in  this  event  and  I 
chuse  to  consider  you  as  one  of  them.  I  was  at  Mr. 
Angerstein's  last  night  and  met  an  old  acquaintance  of 
yours,  Mrs.  Moore.  ...  I  think  her  a  charming 
woman  and  as  she  is  quite  one  of  us  on  the  subject  of 
our  prince  she  was  particularly  pleasing  to  me  last 
night.  I  enclose  you  another  beautiful  dance  and  now 


476  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1801 

I  know  how  to  amuse  you,  shall  lose  no  opportunity  of 
doing  so.  ...  Adieu  my  dearest  Marie,  I  have  only 
time  to  say  that  I  love  you  dearly  dearly. 

"  THE  CATTY." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 
"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  .  .  .  10  per  cent,  seems  a  good  profit 
and  I  think  that  you  should  give  some  orders 
about  your  Loan,  and  when  you  have  sold  it  pray 

do  not  fail  to  write  Mr.  A a  very  kind  letter  to 

thank  him.  You  must  read  the  Newspaper  Language 
and  determine  for  yourself  what  may  be  the  Effect 
of  France  opening  a  Treaty  with  us,  or  what  may  be 
equally  likely,  the  failure  of  it.  ... 

"  Saturday. 

"We  had  a  very  agreeable  Party  at  Mr.  Tates 
last  night  where  we  staid  till  past  2.  .  .  .  In  the 
Course  of  the  Evening  Lady  Clarges  sung  a  good 
deal  which  was  a  novelty  to  us,  and  Mrs.  Rigby.  .  .  . 

"  Farewell. 

"  H.  F." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

11  April,  1801. 

" .  .  .  Mr.  Angerstein  is  got  much  better,  I  went 
to  the  Opera  with  Mrs.  Webb.  *  Semiramide '  which 
I  now  like  at  least  as  well  as  when  first  I  heard  it.  ... 
My  Father  dined  out,  he  met  the  Prince  this  morning 
in  the  Park  who  congratulated  him  upon  the  good 
lojks  of  his  Horse.  .  .  .  My  mother's  cough  is  almost 
well  and  so  for  tonight  God  bless  you  all, 


i8oi]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  477 

11  I  am  serious  when  I  tell  you  that  I  cannot  continue 
writing  to  you  if  you  keep  my  letters." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 
"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  .  .  .  We  had  a  general  round  of  con- 
gratulations as  soon  as  we  were  up,  on  the  birthday 
of  our  constant  favourite.1  Elizabeth  was  the  principal 
person  of  the  Drama,  and  was  complimented  upon  the 
occasion  as  if  she  had  been  the  Mother  instead  of 
the  Godmother.  Your  poor  Papa  drank  the  sweet 
one's  health.  He  is  very  fond  of  her,  but  as  he  is 
a  great  lover  of  Justice  and  Equality  he  reminds  us 
continually  that  we  have  another  niece.  You  know 
how  much  he  always  stands  her  friend.  .  .  .  This  is 
May  Day  but  far  from  Warm.  The  poor  little 
chimney  sweepers  must  miss  their  kind  Bene- 
factress. .  .  .  The  Ladies'  Concert  was  held  in  the 
evening  yesterday,  to  which  I  went  and  after  it  my 
sisters  went  to  Miss  Abram's  and  Philip  to  Almacks. 
Your  poor  Papa,  who  is  not  yet  well,  but  I  believe 
a  little  tired  of  staying  at  home,  is  going  to  dine  at 

Sir  Thomas  Miller's.  ,,  r?          n 

"  Farewell, 

"H.  F." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  Having  got  a  frank  I  think  it  is  a  pity 
not  to  scratch  you  a  few  lines,  though  I  am  hurried 
almost  out  of  my  wits.  My  father  has  not  been  well 
for  some  time  .  .  .  you  know  that  when  he  is  ill  he 
requires  constant  attention  and  amusement,  and  as 
1  Mary  Johnson,  daughter  of  Mrs.  Godschall  Johnson, 


478  Ube  jfrancts  Xettets  [1801 

he  has  promised  not  to  stir  out  this  day  I  wish  him 
to  find  the  sacrifice  as  little  disagreeable  as  may  be — 
he  is  in  very  good  spirits  but  does  not  like  the  trouble 
of  being  sick.  Poor  Cholmondeley  is  still  confined  to 
his  house  with  the  jaundice,  some  of  us  go  there  every 
evening.  Catharine  has  copied  the  enclosed  dance 

for  you.  ..  ~  n 

*  Farewell, 

"  H.  F." 
THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  You  must  naturally  be  very  anxious  to 
hear  some  account  every  day  of  your  poor  Papa. 
I  wish  that  I  could  tell  he  was  better,  though  in 
reason  it  is  not  to  be  expected,  as  the  Medicines  that 
ultimately  I  trust  will  cure  him,  in  their  operation 
and  immediate  effect  reduce  him  to  great  weakness. 
His  spirits  happily  are  not  low,  but  he  is  very  languid 
and  feeble,  nothing  can  be  so  kind,  patient,  and  good 
natured  as  he  is,  I  tremble  to  think  what  would  be 
our  unhappiness  if  he  were  in  a  dangerous  state, 
but  I  thank  God  that  there  is  no  reason  to  fear 
his  getting  well,  though  it  is  a  lingering  and  tedious 
illness.  .  .  .  We  do  not  intend  leaving  your  Papa 
again  till  he  is  better,  but  he  likes  us  to  go  out  in  turn 
and  pick  up  a  little  news,  which  he  attends  to  as  much 
as  if  it  was  something  of  great  importance.  .  .  . 

"  Farewell." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"  MY    DEAR    MARY,  ^Sunday. 

"  I  begin  with  the  most  interesting  subject 
first  namely  that  your  poor  Papa  is  better.  .  .  .  You 


i8oi]  zrbe  jfrancis  ^Letters  479 

may  suppose  that  our  attention  has  been  a  good  deal 
engaged  by  his  Illness  ...  he  sits  in  the  front 
Parlour  which  is  as  you  know  a  very  gay  pleasant 
Room  and  much  more  commodious  for  the  reception 
of  various  Persons  who  come  to  visit  him.  .  .  . 

"  Yesterday  I  dined  with  Mrs.  Webb  ...  at  half 
past  8  we  went  to  the  Opera,  Miss  Sloane  sat  in 
our  Box,  I  had  a  spare  ticket  for  her.  She  prefers 
the  Opera  to  any  pleasure  London  affords,  I  do  not 
give  it  such  a  preference  though  I  think  it  a  very 
agreeable  luxury.  ...  Mr.  Jekill  is  full  of  Attention 
to  Miss  Sloane,  but  whether  he  will  induce  her  to 
accept  of  his  name  I  know  not,  but  if  she  means 
nothing  I  think  she  will  get  into  a  foolish  scrape. 

"  When  I  returned  from  the  Opera  I  found 
Col.  M[acmahori]  and  Mr.  Adair  sitting  with  my 
Father.  .  .  .  The  King  I  believe  is  not  the  least 
better,  but  in  spite  of  that,  a  Thanksgiving  for  his 
Recovery  was  read  today  in  Church.  .  .  .  Do  pray 
burn  all  my  Letters,  it  is  not  right  to  keep  such 
nonsense,  and  tell  me  that  you  have  done  so.  ... 
God  bless  you  dearest. 

«H.  F." 

After  a  visit  paid  to  Cheltenham  by  Mr.  Francis 
and  his  daughter  Elizabeth,  for  the  health  of  the 
former : — 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  Tuesday,  2nd  June. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

0  It  was  late  when  my  Father  and  Elizabeth 
came  today  or  I  should  have  written  you  a  few  lines 
to  tell  you  that  the  former  is  certainly  much  better 


480  Ube  fftancfs  ^Letters  [1801 

The  fortnight  they  have  been  at  Cheltenham  has 
I  suppose  appeared  like  two  months  to  them,  he 
knew  several  men  there,  but  was  unequal  to  having 
any  pleasure  in  their  society  and  Conversation,  and 
the  effects  of  his  daily  sufferings  and  Patience  upon 
Elizabeth  were  very  melancholy.  .  .  .  The  Fat  Cat 
is  quite  well  and  has  behaved  like  an  Angel  but 
you  know  her  Merits  in  any  situation  which  requires 
either  personal  Sacrifices  or  exertion  of  constant 
kindness  and  attention.  My  Father  is  fully  sensible 
of  her  Affection  for  him.  .  .  .  Friday  Evening  I  was 
at  Mrs.  Crewes,  a  most  agreeable  one,  small  Party 
chiefly  men  and  very  elegant  Supper.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Windham  were  there,  and  he  brought  me  home  at 
night.  They  are  come  to  live  in  Pall  Mall.  .  .  . 
Mr.  Kemble  was  there  and  Mr.  Lewis,  writer  of 
the  Castle  Spectre.  We  came  off  about  one,  but 
not  before  Tea  and  Coffee  had  been  handed  about. 
This  is  a  new  Fashion  and  very  bad  for  nervous 
Persons,  I  was  prevented  from  sleeping  as  soundly 
as  usual  by  drinking  a  Dish  of  Coffee.  .  .  .  Farewell 
dearest  Mary. 

"H.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ONE  OF  HIS  DAUGHTERS. 

"yd July,  1 80 1. 

"  HONOURED  INFANT, 

"  I  have  entered  into  Articles  of  Agreement 
with  Mrs.  Godfrey  to  attend  her  to  Vauxhall  on 
Thursday  next,  and  to  contribute  all  I  can  to  make 
a  tolerable  party  for  her.  But  this  will  not  be  in 
my  power,  unless  you  help  with  Men,  as  well  as 
with  your  own  Company.  She  means  to  ask  Miss 


jfrancts  Xetters  481 

Cottons  and  Miss  Williams's.  So  pray  consider  of 
it.  On  this  occasion  Choly.  might  do  good  service. 
The  Burthen  of  Battle  always  falls  on  you.  On  this 
occasion  all  the  fame  will  be  your  own. 

t(  Love  to  Sally.      For   the    rest,    I    refer   you   to 
Mrs.  F." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"WAVERLEY,1 

"July  6th t  1801. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

11 .  .  .  If  you  could  look  in  upon  me  at  this 
Instant  you  would  give  me  credit  for  writing  to  you. 
Miss  Abrams's  are  here  and  singing  most  beautifully. 
There  never  was  such  a  musical  treat.  Nobody  can 
have  an  idea  of  their  powers  from  only  hearing  them 
now  and  then  of  an  evening  in  London.  They  excel 
quite  as  much  in  Italian  as  English  Musick.  We  had 
a  very  good  journey  here  on  Saturday,  the  sweetest 
Day  that  could  be,  we  arrived  in  time  to  be  very 
comfortably  dressed,  went  to  Dinner,  found  3  Miss 
Abrams,  Lord  P.,  Mr.  Andrews,  Philip,  Mr.  Fulham, 
and  Mr.  Bonnor  Junior,  extremely  chearful  and 
agreeable,  plenty  of  strawberries  and  cream  which 
Philip  after  eating  for  3  weeks  seems  much  the 
better  for — immediately  after  Dinner  came  to  the 
door  a  jaunting  car,  sociable,  and  curricle,  which 
accommodated  all  the  Company,  and  we  took  a 
charming  drive,  returned,  and  found  such  a  The* 
prepared  as  if  nobody  had  dined,  this  meal  being 
over  we  set  out  upon  a  Walk,  returned  to  the  singing 
and  supper.  Yesterday  was  passed  in  much  the  same 
1  Place  of  the  P.  Thomsons. 


482  ftbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1801 

manner,  only  with  the  variation  of  the  Singers  being 
in  the  Boat  on  the  Water,  and  our  driving  about  the 
Ruins  in  the  Car.  Catharine  rides  of  a  morning 
which  is  her  Delight,  I  am  satisfied  with  a  walk  in 
the  shade.  The  clocks  are  advanced  an  hour  which 
I  think  answers  very  well  in  the  country.  This 
evening  we  are  to  have  a  grand  procession  of  Nuns, 
one  to  take  the  Veil,  in  the  Ruins  of  the  Abbey, 
singing  of  a  solemn  sort  by  these  sister  Syrens,  every- 
body is  now  engaged  in  preparing  for  this  performance 
and  we  are  to  dine  early  to  allow  time  for  it.  I  wish 
you  were  with  us  to  enjoy  this  beautiful  scene  all 
together.  They  are  making  hay  in  the  meadow 
opposite,  which  adds  much  to  the  effect  of  the  Water 
and  Ruins.  You  know  how  good  natured  the 
Thomsons  always  are  to  us,  and  people  must  have 
very  bad  Taste  not  to  be  satisfied  with ,  the  Life  at 
this  Place.  Ld.  P.  seems  to  be  much  at  his  ease 
and  everybody  in  good  humour.  .  .  .  Farewell  dearest 
Mary,  get  up  your  best  Spirits  and  Looks." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO   HARRIET  FRANCIS. 

"WooBURN  ABBEY, 
"jth  July,  1 80 1. 

"  WORTHY  CHILD, 

"  I  leave  it  to  you  to  judge  whether  all  the 
parties,  who  have  it  now  in  Contemplation  to  meet 
at  Vauxhall  on  Thursday  next,  are  likely  to  coalesce, 
particularly  at  Supper,  remember  the  names  I  men- 
tioned to  you  in  my  last  ;  and  let  me  see  some 
brilliant  proofs  of  your  activity  and  Discretion,  that 
is  first  in  providing,  and  then  in  Arranging. 


i8oi]  ube  Brands  Xetters  483 

"...  My  intention  is  to  be  in  town  tomorrow 
evening,  so,  if  you  have  anything  more  to  say,  you 
must  write  to  the  Square — I  really  rejoice  at  the 
approaching  Nuptials.  What  a  brace  of  Goslings 
they  were  not  to  try  it  sooner !  Our  party  here  has 
been  reinforced  by  the  arrival  of  Grey,  Whitbread, 
Duke  of  Devonshire,  Duke  of  Norfolk  and  a  lively 
Turtle.  Next  week  I  am  to  pass  a  few  days  with 
Ld.  Robert  at  Woolbeding  ;  and  on  the  22nd  I  must 
be  at  my  Manor  house  in  Essex. 

"  Pray  be  very  kind  to  Mrs.  Culverden  in  my  name 
and  on  my  account.  Also  to  Mrs.  F.  and  Sally. 

"Why  shouldn't  Lord  P.  come  back  in  time  for 
Vauxhall  ? 

"  Your  own 

"P.  F." 

ELIZABETH  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"BROADLANDS, 

"Sep.  25/A,  1801. 

"  MY  DEAR  MAMA, 

"  Shall  you  be  happy  to  see  your  two  poor 
Children  again  ?  and  if  you  are,  you  are  [to  be  ?] 
very  good  to  them  for  though  happy  to  return  to  you 
and  the  Chick,  they  leave  a  very  pleasant  party  here 
I  assure  you.  ...  I  was  much  pleased  to  hear  of 
the  Prince's  offer  to  Ralph,  but  that  is  all  the  appro- 
bation I  can  give  it,  for  the  expense  of  living  in  the 
Regiment  is  quite  certain  ruin  to  those  who  have 
something,  but  to  poor  folks  the  thing  is  impossible. 

"...  We  dine  upon  Turtle  and  Venison  every 
day  and  I  often  wish  I  could  send  you  a  bit  in  a 
Frank.  Your  friend  Mr.  Andrews  made  himself  very 


484  ZTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  [1801 

agreeable  while  he  staid  and  charged  me  to  remember 
him  to  you  which  I  know  you  always  are  glad  to  hear, 
and  so  now  God  bless  you  all, 

"  from  Yours, 

Dr.  Mama, 

"  E.  F." 

HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"LONDON, 

"Sept.  2$th,  1 80 1,  Tuesday  Night. 

11  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  .  .  .  London  is  at  this  important  moment 
a  very  busy  scene,  the  State  of  the  King  I  believe 
is  a  very  serious  one,  the  Ministry  remains  in  the 
same  unsettled  state  and  even  if  it  were  otherwise, 
the  Abilities  of  the  Persons  likely  to  Compose  a  new 
One  are  not  of  a  sort  to  excite  much  confidence  in  the 
mind  of  the  Publick  at  so  alarming  a  Crisis — how  it 
will  end  remains  to  appear,  every  Parliamentary 
exertion  is  postponed  upon  some  ground  or  other, 
and  every  hour  gives  birth  to  Many  conjectures. 
You  may  suppose  that  this  subject  occupies  all  our 
thoughts  as  in  our  Hearts  we  are  all  Politicians, 
the  Parks  are  swarming  with  Ladies  and  Gentlemen 
in  the  morning  with  enquiries  at  Buckingham  House, 
but  little  transpires  that  is  satisfactory.  .  .  .  Lord 
Palmerston  came  to  see  us  to  Day,  he  is  very  grave 
on  the  state  of  Publick  Affairs,  Mrs.  J.  Angerstein  also, 
and  brought  her  little  boy,  .  .  .  Lady  Shelley  and 
Miss  Shelley  Lady  Montague  Lady  John  Townshend 
and  Cholmondeley,  you  may  suppose  that  a  succession 
of  these  Visitors  enlivened  by  others  to  my  Father 


i8oi]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  485 

were  tolerably  confusing,  but  Sally  has  just  declared 
how  much  she  likes  it.   .  .  . 

"  Farewell,  Burn  my  Letters 

"  H.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZABETH  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"DEAR  BETTY,  "4  Octr"  ltol- 

"  I  am  very  glad  to  hear  that  you  have 
relinquished  all  thoughts  of  Ramsgate.  .  .  .  This 
great  event  opens  a  new  scene,  Such  a  Peace,  after 
such  a  War !  it  is  stupendous  ;  but,  Silence.  You 
will  like  to  read  the  following  extract  of  a  Letter  I 
have  received  from  Mrs.  Godfrey,  and  I  suppose  you 
will  have  no  objection  to  her  Request  for  a  Week, 
before  this  delicious  Month  is  at  an  end. 

"  *  Having  made  my  Apologies,  which  I  trust  you 
will  accept  most  cordially,  I  have  to  tell  you  I  am 
looking  forward  to  the  performance  of  your  promise 
of  coming  to  the  Cottage.  It  is  a  pleasure  I  shall 
not  easily  give  up,  and  I  flatter  myself  dear  Elizabeth 
will  not  forget  she  has  some  friends  at  Hertingford- 
bury,  who  will  be  happy  if  she  will  accompany  you, 
and  greatly  disappointed  indeed  if  she  does  not.  A 
petit  roti,  a  good  fire  and  a  sincere  welcome  will  be 
your  Lot ;  More  I  cannot  say.' 

"  This  you  see,  comes  from  her  heart,  and  I  think 
will  answer  very  well.  .  .  . 

"  Kind  love  to  your  Mother  and  the  Children, 
thanks  to  Sally  for  her  Letter.  I  never  lived  so 
much  to  my  content  as  at  this  place,  then  the  weather 
has  been  exquisite.  Your  own  parent, 

"P.  F." 

VOL.    II.  IO 


486  ITbe  ifrancia  Xctteta  [1801 

MRS.    FULLERTON1    TO    MRS.    JOHNSON. 

"RICHMOND, 

"  Octr.  13,  1 80 1. 

"  MY  DEAR  MRS.  JOHNSON, 

"  .  .  .  I  conclude,  you  have  been  all  rejoicing 
at  Ramsgate,  on  Account  of  Peace,  and  was  as  much 
surprised  as  I  was  at  the  News.  Dr.  More's  son 
who  is  (I  believe)  in  the  Secretary  of  State's  Office; 
was  the  Person  employed  to  write  all  the  Confidential 
Dispatches  on  the  Subject  on  both  Sides ;  for 
Secresy  was  made  so  great  of  (I  suppose,  to  prevent 
Gambling  in  the  Funds)  that  (greatly  to  Mr.  More's 
Honor),  M.  Otto  chose  to  employ  Him,  to  write  His 
dispatches,  in  preference  to  any  of  his  own  People. 
It  was  signed,  at  12  o'clock,  on  Thursday  Night. 
It  was  not  to  be  made  known  till  seven  next  Morning  ; 
at  that  hour  Mr.  More  flew  down  to  inform  his  Father 
of  what  was  doubly  interesting  to  Him,  from  his 
excessive  Anxiety  to  see  the  General  again  before  his 
Death ;  but  which,  from  the  Dr.'s  sad  state  of  Health 
I  fear  he  will  not  do.  Dr.  M.  sent  immediately  to 
Sir  Rt.  Baker,  who  came  to  me  before  Ten.  Mr.  M. 
had  told  it  in  every  Village  as  He  came  along ;  many 
could  scarcely  believe  it  but  in  a  few  Hours  the  whole 
Country  seemed  electrifyed.  Our  illuminations  took 
place  last  Night,  and  were  very  brilliant,  though  from 
the  great  demand  for  Transparencies  and  Lamps  many 
were  disappointed,  and  obliged  to  take  up  with 
Candles  at  the  last  moment.  Sir  Rt.  Baker's  were 
simple  and  elegant  to  a  great  degree,  an  Arch  of 
coloured  Lamps,  mixed  with  Laurel  over  each  Gate 
1  Cousin  to  Mr.  Godschall  Johnson. 


i8oi]  afoe  jfrancte  Xetters  487 

way,  and  mixing  in  with  the  fine  Elms  before  the 
House,  Mrs.  Furze's  a  Transparency,  'Thank  God' 
with  a  Glory  round  it,  mine  a  Wreath  of  Olive,  a 
Cornucopea  and  P.P.  with  a  large  crown  above  and 
G.R.,  on  the  Sides  in  Coloured  Lamps;  there  were 
many  others  in  the  Town  and  on  the  Hill,  that  were 
very  handsome  ;  but  I  did  not  go  out,  therefore  only 
heard  of  them.  Many  cottages  were  lighted  with  a 
degree  of  taste  that  shewed  the  heartfelt  joy  of  the 
Lower  Orders  of  People  with  whom  the  Streets  were 
crowded  from  all  parts — but  alas,  our  Public  Joy  has 
been  sadly  overcast  with  private  Sorrow,  Mr.  Robert 
Darell  is  dead  :  he  had  been  dangerously  ill  for  a 
Fortnight,  but  on  Saturday  was  so  much  better  that 
the  Family  were  quite  in  spirits,  and  thought  he  would 
certainly  recover,  but  at  4  o'clock  while  conversing 
chearfully  with  Mrs.  Crofts  he  fell  back  in  his  chair 
and  expired  without  a  Groan,  before  she  could  get  a 
Servant  into  the  Room  to  him.  The  family  are,  I 
believe,  the  oldest  in  the  Place  and  much  beloved  and 
esteemed  by  all  Ranks  of  People,  could  they  have 
witnessed  the  Gloom  of  Sorrow  that  has  pervaded  all 
our  Parties  since  his  Illness  and  Death  it  must  have 
been  very  gratifying  to  their  feelings.  Indeed  I  must 
say  for  the  Honor  of  Richmond,  there  are  few  Places 
where  more  sincere  Friendship  is  to  be  found,  the 
Circle  is  large,  and  much  Gaiety  and  Dissipation  in  it, 
but  we  are  a  Knot  of  true  Friends,  and  I  am  sure 
I  have  lost  one  in  him.  .  .  . 

"Affecly.  yours, 

"C.    FULLERTON." 


488  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1801 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HARRIET  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

-WORTHY  CHILD,  "25*^,1801. 

"  You  are  a  very  good  Infant,  and  I  am 
much  indebted  to  you,  and  Lady  T.  has  read  both 
your  Letters  and  she  says  '  I  do  suppose  dis  is  de 
favorite.'  We  have  never  had  a  soul  to  make  a 
fourth,  and  yet  I  swear  I  never  passed  my  time  more 
agreeably.  L 'ennui  is  a  thing  not  only  unknown  but 
unheard  of  among  us.  Philip  will  be  here  to  dinner, 
as  you  may  collect  from  the  inclosed  Letter  if  you  read 
it.  This  place  furnishes  everything  but  news,  for  that 
we  must  depend  on  your  abundant  Sources  of  Infor- 
mation and  the  Activity  of  your  pen.  .  .  . 

"  I  send  you  my  Blessing  en  Masse  ;  divide  it  fairly 
among  you.  ((  p   p  „ 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZABETH  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 
"  POOR   DEAR   PUSHAWDRY,  "^  *9'  '8o1' 

"  Never  mind  what  any  of  the  Grimalkins 
miaou  to  the  contrary.  You  are  Queen  of  the  Cats, 
now  Margery's  dead.  Brave  news,  I  shall  be  in  town 
tomorrow  night,  and  dine  with  you  on  Tuesday.  .  .  . 
This  day  what  a  glorious  sun!  (<y 

"  P.  F." 
HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.   FRANCIS. 

11  WAVERLEY, 

"  My  DEAR  MRS.  F.,  "4*/~««y.  i*». 

"  I  should  not  have  been  so  long  without 
writing  to  you  but  that  I  would  not  put  you  to  charges 


Ube  jfrancts  ^Letters  489 

for  my  letter.       I   write  to  you  to-day  intending  to 
avail  myself  of  Lord   P.'s  privilege  of  franking,  the 
instant    I    arrive   at    Broadlands,    which    I    trust   we 
shall   do   safe   and    sound   tomorrow.       I    have   been 
really  ill  as  you  know  with  a  Cold  and  Violent  Cough. 
This  interruption  to  my  general  good  health  has  at 
least   served   to  remind  me  of  my   good   fortune   in 
enjoying   the    Health   I    commonly   do — I    have   had 
2    Blisters   on    my    chest.  ...   I    have   taken    every 
species  of  Lozenge  (but   I   think  Dawson's  the  best) 
syrup  and  slop,  have  had   a   fire   like   a   furnace   in 
my   room,    and    everything    which    Mrs.    Thomson's 
kindness  and  skill  could  suggest.     We  have  passed 
our  time  much  in  the  same  way  from  Day  to  Day, 
but  that  has  been  very  chearfully  and  agreeably  .  .  . 
we   breakfast  at   half  past   9   and    dine   at    4 — which 
early  hour  makes  the  supper  at  10  by  no  means  an 
insignificant  meal.  .  .  .  Pray  tell  the  F.  K.  that  Jones 
forgot  to  put  up   either   of  my  own  Muslin   Cloaks 
or  hers.     This  is  very  unlucky  as  my  Blister  makes 
my  Dress  very  troublesome.  .  .  .  Many  happy  New 
Years   to   you   my   dearest    Mrs.    F.    and   God  bless 

you  all. 

"H.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HARRIET  FRANCIS. 

"  1 6  January,  1802. 
"  CnfcREST   DIGNE    ENFANT, 

"  I  grieved  for  your  Sickness  and  rejoice  at 
your  recovery.  I  should  have  written  long  ago,  as 
you  well  know  if  I  could  have  found,  as  I  have  at 
last  a  good  bit  of  paper  for  the  purpose.  Pray  tell 
me  how  you  go  on  in  that  Castle.  Concord  or 


490  tbe  frauds  Xetters  [1802 

Discord  ?  Did  my  Lady  ever  take  notice  of  a  printed 
paper  I  sent  her?  Does  Philip  mean  to  attend  the 
Gallants  on  Thursday  next,  or  to  go  with  me  the 
next  day  to  Lord  Thanet's  ?  I  have  seen  heard  and 
understood  Count  Romford.  How  goes  Sir  Charles, 
my  Lady,  my  Lord,  and  all  the  Culverdines  ?  Answer 
all  this  minutely.  Tell  them  I  hope  that  I  live  in 
their  memory  though  not  at  their  expense.  The 
richest  person  in  the  World  is  Elizabeth,  and  the 
most  generous. 

"  the  best  of  parents 

"  My  own  Self." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"24  January,  1802. 

"  MOST  DEAR  BABBY, 

"  I  was  very  sorry  to  be  obliged  to  disturb 
you  on  Friday  at  that  unseasonable  Hour  in  this 
inclement  Season  ;  but  I  hope  you  did  not  catch  the 
Cold.  ...  I  send  you  another  beautiful  Letter  from 
Doll,  as  well  as  a  very  polite  one  in  print  from  Doctor 
Chilver  (Baronet  in  embrio)  which  you  will  read  on 
the  other  side  in  very  legible  characters.  If  you 
send  him  ^15  and  take  a  receipt,  being  double  his 
bill  I  think  it  will  be  quite  enough  in  these  times. 
If  our  house  in  the  Square  be  not  set  on  fire  very 
soon  by  some  friend  or  neighbour  I  must  burn  it 
myself  and  send  in  my  bill,  as  he  does.  Take  a 
Receipt.  Yesterday  and  Friday  were  drest  in  sun- 
shine, and  I  got  here  before  four.  The  Turkey 
roasted  and  ready  to  receive  me,  but  no  Trufles ; 
such  is  the  uncertainty  of  human  Affairs.  In  other 


i8oa]  ttbe  jfrancte  Xetters  491 

respects  I  fare  pretty  well.  We  three  are  as  merry 
as  Greeks  and  a  good  deal  of  it  at  the  expense  of 
those  whom  it  concerns,  viz.,  all  our  Absent  Friends. 
Love  to  your  Mother  and  Duty  to  those  Infants. 
Tell  me  everything  you  hear ;  but  beware  of  personal 
Reflections,  particularly  on  this  Lord  or  Lady.  They 
are  mere  Devils  for  Jealousy  and  Suspicion ;  and  my 
Lady  opens  all  post  letters  and  says,  It  is  de  custom 
of  dis  house. 

"  dear  Fat,  beware  of  skin  and  bone, 

"  Yrs,  con  amore, 

"  P.  F. 

"  Send  this  to  Doll  to  eke  out  what  I  am  going 
to  write  to  her." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HARRIET  FRANCIS. 

11  HOTHFIELD, 

"24  January,  1802. 

"  MOST  DEAR  DOLL, 

"  For  your  last  two  beautiful  Letters,  I 
thank  you  vehemently,  pray  continue,  and  tell  me 
everything  you  hear.  Cat  will  send  you  one,  which 
she  will  receive  by  this  post.  So,  between  this  and 
that,  there's  Fund  for  Chat.  I  sent  that  foolish 
pamphlet  to  Philip,  which  Sir  Charles  has  fathered 
on  me  ;  so  you  may  judge.  Why  doesn't  that  hound 
write  to  me  ?  As  to  his  coming  hither,  you  may 
tell  him  we  don't  want  his  company.  For  the  un- 
fortunate    I  feel  a  Deep  and  serious  concern, 

religion  and  palsy  are  too  much  at  a  time.  The 
former  shall  never  be  charged  with  my  death,  or 
with  making  me  mad.  I  can  die  quite  soon  enough 


492  tTbe  Jfrancfs  Xetters  [1802 

of  my  own  accord  ;  and  before  I  go  mad,  I  must 
contrive  to  fall  in  Love ;  but  never  with  the  beauty 
of  Holiness.  In  return  for  Service  and  Merit  in 
this  World,  I  like  ready  money  payments ;  and  as 
to  a  bright  reversion  in  the  Skies,  the  Arch  Bishop 
of  Canterbury  cannot  value  it  less  than  I  do.  Tell 
Philip  to  write  a  Novel  with  the  Title  of  the  True 
History  of  the  Injured  Lady,  or  the  perfidious 
Musician,  who  by  the  bye,  vows  vengeance,  and 
will  beat  him  as  well  as  time,  whenever  they  meet. 
This  with  my  letter  to  Babby  makes  five  sides  ;  so, 
with  my  love  to  Culverden  and  duty  to  his  Spouse, 
the  Compliments  of  the  Season,  if  not  too  late,  to 
Lord  and  Lady  P.,  and  ut  re  mi  sol  fa  to  the  dear 
enchanting  Abrams,  I  conclude, 

"  Your  beloved  parent, 

"  P.  F." 


HARRIET  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

{Apparently  February,  1802.] 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  Though  I  am  about  frozen  with  cold  yet 
I  cannot  let  the  Waterman  return  without  taking 
you  a  few  Lines,  to  say  that  we  shall  be  happy  to 
see  you  and  Eliza  Monday  i5th  March,  when  we 
shall  take  you  to  a  very  agreeable  party  in  the 
evening  at  Mr.  Angerstein's.  ...  I  am  nearly  well 
and  if  it  was  not  for  this  cold  weather  should 
probably  be  quite  so.  Tonight  I  am  going  in  a 
Chair  to  the  Opera,  I  have  not  been  out  of  an 
Evening  for  near  a  Month.  The  poor  Duke  of 
Bedford  has  desired  in  his  Will  that  his  Younger 


1802]  TTbe  jftancte  ^Letters  493 

Brother  Ld.  William's  Debts  may  be  paid  (having 
paid  them  once  in  his  Life)  and  a  Gift  of  thirty-five 
thousand  pounds  besides  five  Thousand  to  Fox — and 
a  Legacy  to  R.  Adair,  but  what  I  do  not  know. 
What  a  sad  Fate  !  Lord  Thanet  is  much  affected 
by  his  Death,  but  writes  to  my  Father,  that  if  his 
Friends  do  attend  his  Funeral  that  he  will  summon 
all  his  fortitude  to  do  the  same. 

"  Farewell, 

"  H.  F." 

PHILIP   FRANCIS  TO  HARRIET  FRANCIS. 

"  APPLEBY  CASTLE, 
41  Wednesday  morning,  7  July,  1802.     , 

"  MY  OWN  DEAR  HARRIET, 

"  The  Fact  is  that  yesterday  morning, 
between  1 1  &  12  I  was  unanimously  elected  by 
one  Elector,  to  represent  this  Ancient  Borough  in 
Parliament,  and  I  believe  I  am  the  very  first  Member 
returned  in  the  whole  kingdom.  There  was  no 
other  Candidate,  no  Opposition,  no  Poll  demanded, 
Scrutiny,  or  petition.  So  I  had  nothing  to  do  but 
to  thank  the  said  Elector  for  the  Unanimous  Voice 
by  which  I  was  chosen.  Then  we  had  a  great 
Dinner  at  the  Castle,  and  a  famous  Ball  in  the 
evening  for  that  part  of  the  Community  which  my 
lady  calls  the  Raggamuffins.  On  Friday  Morning  I 
shall  quit  this  triumphant  Scene  with  flying  Colours, 
and  a  noble  Determination  not  to  see  it  again  in 
less  than  seven  years.  We  visited  Burghley  in  our 
way  hither,  and  shall  visit  York  in  our  return. 
Nevertheless  I  hope  to  be  in  town  on  Monday 
Night ;  and  dine  with  you  on  Tuesday  after  voting 


494  Ubc  jftancts  Xetters  [1802 

for  Sir  Francis  Burdett  at  Brentford.  .  .  .  The  wind 
here  has  been  almost  invariably  South  and  South 
west,  which,  I  hope,  has  been  of  use  to  you.  In  this 
Climate  it  produces  nothing  but  rain,  and  furnishes 
very  few  Reflections.  This  makes  the  Inhabitants 
very  melancholy ;  insomuch  that  my  Elector  intends 
to  hang  himself  in  November,  and  then  I  shall  elect 
myself;  and  that  will  do  as  well. 

"  I  am  very  impatient  to  go  anywhere  else;  so  you 
may  depend  on  seeing  me  as  soon  as  I  possibly  can  ; 
and,  if  I  find  you  well  mended,  I  shall  be  better 
pleased  than  with  the  Election. 

"  Love  and  kindness  jointly  and  severally. 

"  Yrs, 
"  P.  F." 


PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"  26  Sept.,  1802. 

"  MOST  DEAR  Miss  KITTY, 

"  Your  letter  of  yesterday  does  you  great 
credit,  and  has  given  me  great  Comfort,  as  you  may 
well  believe.  As  long  as  the  main  object  and  purpose 
of  the  journey  promise  well,  we  are  all  rewarded.  .  .  . 

"  I  was  as  happy  here  before,  as  I  could  be 
without  such  good  Tidings,  and  now  I  am  quite 
satisfied.  Mr.  Mossop  has  dined  here  every  day, 
he  shoots  as  much  as  he  likes,  and  has  killed  a 
good  deal  of  Game  for  the  Family.  This  morning 
my  Lord  and  my  Lady  and  I  with  almost  all  the 
Servants,  with  Yarrow  at  the  head  of  them,  went 
to  Church  for  the  first  time  in  their  lives,  and  I 


1802]  Ube  jfrancts  betters  495 

thought  that  Mossop  l  acquitted  himself  very  well. 
On  the  whole  it  appears  to  me  that  he  is  likely 
enough  to  be  a  favourite  with  the  parish. 

"  The  Quaker  at  Mile  End  has  written  to  say 
that  he  has  returned  the  Map  and  the  Print ;  so  I 
suppose  you  will  find  them  in  the  Square.  The  Duke 
of  Bedford  is  expected  today,  and  in  all  probability 
I  shall  not  leave  this  before  Tuesday  Sennight ;  nor 
then,  unless  we  should  have  rain.  The  Weather  is 
perfectly  marvellous  and  as  hot  as  the  Dog  days. 
So  no  more  at  present, 

"  From  your  loving  Sire, 

"  P.  F. 

"  My  Lady  was  well  pleased  with  the  handkerchief. 
I  have  written  to  the  Quaker." 

1  Formerly  mentioned  at  Sheen. 


PERIOD  V. 
1802—1804. 

This  Period  begins  with  the  illness  of  Harriet  Francis,  the  third 
daughter,  which  ended  fatally  in  1803.  //  compelled  her  journey  to 
Nice  escorted  by  her  brother  and  sister  j  and  from  the  younger  Philip 
Francis  we  have  some  letters  describing  the  Court  of  the  Tuileries.  A 
new  correspondent  is  introduced,  Eliza  Johnson,  step-daughter  of  Mary 
Johnson,  afterwards  the  wife  of  Philip  Francis.  Elizats  letters  were 
written  chiefly  from  a  country-house  in  Oxfordshire.  The  elder  Francis's 
letters  are  addressed  to  his  daughters,  and  to  Lord  and  Lady  Thanet. 
At  the  end  of  this  period  Elizabeth,  Francis's  favourite  daughter,  also  died. 


497 


PERIOD  V, 

1802—1804* 

DURING  the  autumn  of  the  year  1802  Harriet's 
health  became  a  source  of  grave  anxiety  to  her 
family,  and  it  was  decided  to  send  her  abroad  for 
the  winter,  to  Nice,  where  Sally  had  gone  some 
years  ago.  Philip  and  Elizabeth  were  her  com- 
panions, and  her  father  accompanied  the  party  as 
far  as  Paris  ;  a  friend  of  young  Philip's — Harry  Eyre 
— also  travelled  with  them.  They  left  England  in 
August,  and  Philip  writes  to  his  sister  Sarah  from 
Paris  :— 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  SARAH  FRANCIS. 

"  PARIS, 
"  i^th  August,  1802. 

11  MY  DEAR  SALLY, 

"  Elizabeth  will  give  me  no  better  a  sheet 
of  paper  to  write  to  you  upon,  therefore  you  must 
e'en  be  content  with  this.  .  .  .  On  Saturday  we 
dined  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Saladin.  My  father  was 
also  asked  but  engaged  at  Gamba's.  We  had  an 
excellent  dinner  and  very  fine  wines.  .  .  .  Among 
the  company  were  the  Swiss  Minister,  Antony  St. 
Leger,  and  a  nephew  of  General  ^Minon.  They 

499 


soo  TTbe  jfrancte  Xetters  [1802 

were  very  polite  and  kind  to  us  particularly  to  myself 
quits  ont  comblt  £konnitet£%  to  use  a  French  phrase. 
Yesterday  was  Buonaparte's  birthday.  Of  course  a 
day  of  public  fete  and  rejoicing.  We  went  to  Court 
with  the  rest  of  the  world  to  congratulate  him.  The 
Levee  was  very  numerous  and  splendid,  all  the  foreign 
Ministers  being  decorated  with  their  orders  and 
insignia  enriched  with  jewels.  The  Premier  Consul's 
own  people  too  were  all  in  their  finest.  Bob  Adair, 
St.  Leger,  and  some  other  English  were  presented. 
The  Prince's  uniform  having  attracted  the  notice  of 
the  Consul,  he  did  me  the  Honour  this  time  of 
addressing  me.  He  renewed  his  acquaintance  with 
my  father  and  was  very  civil  to  him.  When  we 
returned  we  found  two  billets  from  the  Prdfet  du 
Palais  which  Merry  had  sent  us,  they  having  been 
previously  sent  to  him  from  the  Thuilleries,  inviting 
us  to  the  Thuilleries,  i.e.,  Mr.  F.  and  myself.  I  was 
much  mortified  that  they  had  passed  over  Harry  [Eyre]. 
But  it  not  being  a  regular  day  of  presentation  to 
Madm.  Buonaparte  (the  drawing-rooms  are  always 
on  the  1 8th  of  their  month — that  is  3  days  after 
the  Presentation  at  the  Levde)  strangers  could  not 
go  unless  they  were  prtis — and  of  all  the  English 
only  five  were  invited,  Lds.  Holland  and  Mount 
Cashel.  Mr.  F.  and  myself  and  Mr.  Cottrell.  In 
the  end  Ld.  Holland  my  father  and  myself  were 
the  only  persons  of  the  5  present.  It  was  a  very 
great  civility  to  us — to  me  at  least,  nor  do  I  know 

how  we   obtained  it,  except  by  the  effect  of  's 

very  strong  letter  to  Merry.  Everything  here  is 
done  upon  the  strictest  Court  Etiquette,  and  a 


1802]  Ubc  jfrancts  Xetters  501 

Government  recommendation  for  such  objects  at 
least  is  the  best  recommendation  you  can  have.  As 
usual,  that  is  as  the  English  always  are,  we  were 
too  late  ;  tho'  in  time  according  to  the  Prefect's 
notice.  The  circle  had  by  accident  assembled  earlier 
than  the  appointed  hour — the  presentations  to  Madme. 
Buonaparte  were  over — and  when  we  came  in  the 
Company  were  just  quitting  the  long  card-room,  which 
here  is  the  Assembly  and  presentation  room  to  go 
and  see  the  fireworks  from  another  part  of  the  palace. 
We  followed  with  the  throng,  and  the  Ladies  placed 
themselves  at  the  windows  of  a  number  of  smaller 
rooms  in  a  suite  looking  upon  the  Seine  from  the 
bridges  of  which  they  were  playing  off  fireworks — 
the  men  stood  behind  them,  and  the  crowd  thickened 
gradually,  till  these  small  rooms  became  so  full,  as 
to  be  hot  and  uncomfortable.  This  inconvenience 
was  remedied  by  a  worse — a  draught  of  all  the  worst 
air  in  Paris  through  open  windows  on  all  sides  of 
you.  This  to  me  with  a  sore  throat,  was  no  recom- 
mendation of  Madme.  Buonaparte's  drawing-room ; 
but  I  was  very  well  entertained.  In  the  first  place 
the  view  from  the  Thuilleries  the  whole  of  which 
and  of  the  Louvre  was  itself  brilliantly  illuminated 
was  the  most  beautiful  thing  that  can  be  conceived. 
The  Champs  Elysees  and  Gardens  of  the  Thuilleries, 
in  a  blaze  of  pyramidical  light.  It  was  a  general 
Illumination  of  all  Paris.  The  Place  de  Venddme 
exceeded  in  splendour  anything  I  saw  or  heard  of 
at  our  Illumination  for  the  peace.  Of  the  illumination 
they  [Elizabeth  and  Harriet]  however  can  give  you 
a  better  account  than  myself,  as  they  walked  about  to 

VOL.    II.  1 1 


502  trbe  jfvancte  Xettevs  [1802 

see  them  with  H.  Eyre.  Mr.  Saladin  took  me  about 
and  pointed  out  to  me  all  the  famous  Generals,  and 
pretty  women — once  more  I  am  sorry  to  say  that 
even  at  Court  the  quantity  of  beauty  was  very 
small.  There  might  be  5  or  6  decently  pretty 
women  amongst  the  whole.  One  very  much 
superior  to  the  rest,  a  Madme.  Lavalette,  Mdme. 
Buonaparte's  niece,  indeed  a  very  sweet  creature, 
both  in  face  and  person.  They  were  all  well  dressed 
without  hoops  as  our  women  would  be  for  a  dressed 
Ball  or  an  Assembly.  Great  Profusion  of  fine 
Jewels — very  courtly  and  well  behaved,  and  tho'  a 
good  deal  displayed  not  indecently.  Madme.  Buona- 
parte appears  to  be  about  40.  I  think  well-looking, 
and  incomparable  manner.  The  women  were  very 
few  in  number  compared  with  the  men,  I  think 
not  above  70  in  all.  Buonaparte  walked  about 
without  any  attendance  quite  at  his  ease,  talking  to 
whom  he  liked,  so  that  I  saw  a  great  deal  of  him. 
He  was  last  night  particularly  gracious  to  the  Ladies 
to  whom  he  seldom  speaks.  It  struck  St.  Leger, 
as  it  did  me  that  Ly.  Cathe.  is  his  likeness.  After 
the  fireworks  were  over  the  company  returned  into 
the  Card  room  (the  long  Gallery  hung  with  Gobelin 
Tapestry — lighted  with  many  lustres — about  20  card 
tables  all  at  length  very  handsome).  The  ladies  sat 
in  a  line  with  Madme.  B.  at  the  end — the  Gentlemen 
stood  opposite.  Just  here  I  believe  we  might  have 
been  presented,  but  my  father  was  not  to  be  found. 
Madme.  B.  went  out  for  5  minutes,  and  when  she 
returned  sat  immediately  down  to  cards.  This  lasted 
an  hour  and  a  half  during  which  time  we  waited  in 


ZTbe  jfrancts  %etters  5^3 

hopes  of  having  an  opportunity  of  making  our  bow,  but 
it  was  impossible.  The  instant  the  partie  was  over 
Madme.  B.  got  up  and,  led  out  by  the  Prdfet  du  Palais, 
retired.  .  .  .  We  retired  too.  .  .  .  We  are  going  on 
Thursday  to  the  Hameau  de  Chantilly,  a  place  of 
entertainment  something  like  Frascati.  ..." 
"  My  best  duty  to  my  mother  and  believe  me, 

"  Your 

"  P.  F." 

In  another  letter  either  Elizabeth  or  Harriet 
described  the  First  Consul  thus  : — 

"He  is  a  little  man,  very  pale,  with  grey  eyes 
and  a  most  sweet  countenance.  His  mouth  is 
beautiful.  His  likeness  to  the  Malmesbury  family 
struck  me  greatly." 

Philip  the  younger,  in  describing  this  party  later  in 
life,  used  to  say  that  Napoleon  stood  for  some  time 
behind  Josephine's  chair  watching  her  play,  and  as  he 
turned  away  he  dropped  his  purse  into  her  lap. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"5/#  Oct.,  1802. 
"  MY    OWN    DEAREST    CATHERINE, 

"  I  received  the  enclosed  this  morning  [a 
letter  from  Harriet].  Pray  take  special  care  of  this 
incomparable  letter.  I  would  not  lose  it  for  untold 
gold.  I  know  of  but  one  Angel  on  earth,  and  she  is 
I  hope  very  near  Nice  by  this  time.  Think  of  her 
leaving  Paris  in  Despair,  and  yet  Heroine  enough  to 
suppress  it.  If  this  Life  were  a  Martyrdom,  if 


504  tTbe  ffrancte  ^Letters  [1802 

Existence  were  a  Torment,  I  could  bear  it  for  her  Sake, 
and  live  for  her  Happiness  and  to  contribute  to  it. 
In  removing  to  Woodlands  you  have  taken  an  advis- 
able step/and  now  let  me  advise  you  to  stay  there. 
On  Friday  my  intention  is  to  dine  with  dear  Mary  and 
Company  at  Brighton.  In  this  country  we  are  weary 
of  fine  Weather,  and  are  languishing  for  a  Deluge. 
My  humble  duty  to  Lady  Ju.  and  hearty  thanks,  not 
compliments,  to  Mrs.  Angerstein *  and  all  your  Society. 
"  I  am  your  Affectionate  Sire, 

"  P.  F. 

"  If  you  want  money,  desire  Miss  An.  [Angerstein] 
to  advance  you  three  shillings  and  sixpence  out  of  her 
own  pocket,  on  my  account,  which  I  shall  repay  with 
lawful  Interest.  I  am  no  friend  to  Usury,  particularly 
when  I  borrow." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"  iqth  Oct.,  1802. 

"  DEAR  MADAM  F., 

"  .  .  .  Dear  Eliz.  &  Co.  certainly  left  Lyons 
before  your  Letters  could  reach  that  City,  but  I  have 
no  doubt  they  will  all  be  regularly  received  at  Nice. 
If  I  thought  otherwise,  my  heart  would  ache  for  their 
Disappointment.  From  the  bottom  of  it  I  rejoice  at 
Miss  Berry's  going  to  Nice.  I  shall  not  trouble  her 
with  anything  but  letters ;  but  we  must  all  write 
vigorously.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Macmahbn  are  in  town. 
Suppose  Sally  were  to  invite  them  to  Sheen  for  a 

1  John  Julius  Angerstein  was  the  head  of  a  great  Russian  house. 
He  is  known  through  his  collection  of  pictures,  which  was  the 
foundation  of  our  National  Gallery.  Woodlands  was  his  seat. 


i8o2]  Ube  frauds  letters  s°5 

night  or  two.  He  drinks  Sherry,  of  which  there  are 
a  few  bottles  on  the  left  at  top,  sealed  with  red  wax. 
"  In  this  existence  I  pass  my  time  tolerably.  Dine 
always  at  the  pavillion,  and  spend  the  evening  at 
Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  or  at  your  friend  the  Countess 
Ctgchetzdsbfs,  a  Russian  lady  of  Fashion  and  three 
little  Rushlings.  And  I  never  see  these  infants  but  at 
Breakfast.  So,  with  the  help  of  hunting,  I  am  as 
well  as  can  be  expected. 

"  Yours  dutifully, 

"P.  F." 

The  Misses  Berry,  who  were  old  friends  of  the 
family,  went  to  Nice  soon  after  the  Francis  party  and 
proved  most  kind  and  helpful  to  the  poor  invalid. 

MARY  JOHNSON  TO  HER  SISTERS  AT  NICE. 

"BRIGHTON,    l8o2. 

11  MY  DEAREST  ELIZABETH,  AND  MY  DEAREST  LITTLE 
HARRY, 

"  .  .  .  We  heard  from  Catharine  some  days 
ago  that  Miss  Berrys  leave  England  the  25th  of  this 
month,  and  are  going  to  pass  the  Winter  at  Nice,  and 
offered  to  take  charge  of  any  Letters  to  you — this  was 
very  delightful  news  to  us  all — we  rejoice  in  having 
this  opportunity  of  conveying  some  letters  safely — that 
we  are  sure  you  will  receive — besides  that  we  hope 
and  believe  their  society  (being  old  acquaintances)  will 
prove  an  agreeable  pleasure  and  comfort  to  you.  I 
must  now  in  the  first  place  tell  you  that  we  are  waiting 
and  expecting  with  the  utmost  impatience  and  anxiety 
a  Letter  from  some  one  of  the  party — to  announce 
your  safe  and  happy  arrival  at  Nice,  and  I  trust  a 


so6  ftbe  frauds  Xetters  [1802 

satisfactory  favourable  account  of  the  state  of  our  own 
dearest  Harriet,  after  this  long,  long  journey  that  has 
carried  you  to  such  a  sad  immeasurable  distance  from 
all  those  friends  who  are  the  most  deeply  interested  in 
everything  that  concerns  your  happiness  and  welfare, 
when  we  have  once  received  this  wished-for  Letter, 
with  a  comfortable  account  of  you  both,  and  your  two 
kind  protectors  dear  Philip  and  Harry  Eyre — we  shall 
indeed  feel  our  minds  relieved  of  a  great  weight  of 
suspense  and  anxiety.     How  have  you,  dear  fat  one, 
and   our   poor   little  sick  one  borne   all   the  fatigues 
difficulties  and  distresses  you  have  encountered  in  the 
land  of  troubles  through  which  you  have  passed  ?  per- 
petually have  we  talked  of  you  and  how  often  have  we 
vainly  wished, that  by  any  powerful  art  or  magic,  we 
could  have  had  a  momentary  glimpse  of  you  all  on  the 
road   or  at  any  of  the  places  where  you  rested  and 
recruited   your   wearied  frames — still  I  flatter  myself 
you  are  at  length  arrived  at  the  end  of  your  travels 
and   torments  and   are   at   this   hour   in   the   perfect 
enjoyment  of  the  novelty,  beauty  and   tranquillity  of 
Nice.     What  a  charming  scene  and  delicious  climate  ! 
It  will  I  trust  produce  a  thousand  delights  and  gratifi- 
cations for  you  both  and  God  grant  it  may  restore  our 
dear  dear  Harry  to  her  former  enviable  health  !     As 
my  Father  and  Eliza  are  writing  at  this  time,  we  are 
likely   to   repeat   the   same   transactions,  but  as  that 
cannot  under  the  circumstances  be  avoided  I  proceed 
to  inform  you,  we  have  had  the  happiness  of  being 
presented  to  your  favourite  charming  Prince.     Every 
day  since  my  Father  arrived  here  he  has  dined  at  the 
Pavilion  and  has  been  so  continually  engaged  there — 


i8o2]  ftbe  ffrancts  ^Letters  s°7 

at  the  Club  or  hunting  over  the  Downs  that  we  see 
but  little  of  him,  except  at  Breakfast  though  he  has  an 
apartment  chez  nous.  He  is  as  young,  handsome  and 
full  of  spirits  and  activity  as  ever  I  saw  him,  though 
he  cannot  forbear  often  sighing  and  wishing  for  '  his 
own  dear  fat  Creature,  and  dearest  Doll' — of  whom 
he  always  speaks  with  the  greatest  tenderness  and 
affection.  Nothing  can  exceed  his  constant  good 
humour  and  kindness  to  us  all,  I  mean  the  Lizzy, 
myself  and  Babes,  who  you  know  make  my  little 
family  circle.  I  very  earnestly  wished  and  intreated 
Catharine  to  come  and  pass  a  month  with  us — but  as 
yet  she  has  refused,  dreading  that  the  air  might  occa- 
sion a  return  of  her  illness,  however  I  do  not  quite 
despair  that  Mr.  C[holmondeley]  may  bring  her  down 
for  a  short  time  at  least — it  would  be  so  good  an 
opportunity  of  improving  her  acquaintance  with  the 
Prince — to  whom  I  must  now  return,  and  tell  you 
that  on  Sunday  last  on  the  Steyne  he  saw  me 
walking  with  my  Father,  who  immediately  went 
to  join  him,  and  the  Prince  then  observed  to  him 
that  I  was  the  only  one  of  his  family  with  whom 
4  he  had  not  the  pleasure  of  being  acquainted^ 
and  begged  that  as  he  was  to  have  a  party  and 
music  at  the  Pavilion  in  the  evening — that  Eliza 
and  I  would  come — you  may  imagine  that  we 
were  highly  pleased — and  went  there  at  9  o'clock  with 
my  Father — both,  without  vanity  looking  uncommonly 
well  and  well  dressed.  I  cannot  do  justice  to  the 
perfect  elegance,  grace  and  extreme  kindness  of  his 
first  address — which  was  indeed  so  gracious  and  so 
charming  that  it  put  me  (who  had  you  may  be  sure, 


5°s  Ube  jfrancts  Xettets  [1802 

many  natural  and  nervous  fears  and  feelings  on  the 
occasion)  almost  at  my  ease,  and  impressed  me  only 
with  the  utmost  admiration  of  him." 

Here   the   letter  breaks  off,   the  rest  having  been 
either  lost  or  destroyed. 


PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTER  ELIZABETH. 

14  BRIGHTON, 
"2isl  October,  1802. 
"  MY  OWN  DEAREST  ELIZABETH, 

"  The  date  of  your  most  Excellent  letter 
from  Lyons,  gives  me  a  hope  that  possibly,  before  this 
is  closed,  we  shall  have  the  happiness  to  hear  of  your 
Arrival  and  Settlement  at  Nice.  My  heart  was  not 
big  enough  to  hold  another  Drop  of  Love  for  you ;  so 
all  your  Letter  could  do  was  to  make  it  overflow. 
I  cannot  say  more  ;  but  if  ever  I  abate  or  alter,  you 
may  safely  conclude  that  my  Identity  is  gone,  and 
that  I  am  no  longer  an  accountable  being.  Your 
Account  of  dearest  Harriet's  Improvement,  tho' 
liable  to  checks,  promises  more  than  I  had  expected 
in  so  short  a  Time,  and  under  all  the  Miseries  of  such 
a  Journey.  Catherine  wrote  repeatedly  and  minutely 
to  Lyons,  and  all  possible  precautions  were  taken  at 
the  Post  Office ;  so  I  cannot  doubt  of  your  receiving 
her  Letters  at  Nice.  The  present  Conveyance  at  all 
events  cannot  fail.  On  the  25th  instant  the  Miss 
Berries  are  to  set  out  to  join  you.  Except  yourselves, 
I  never  wished  anybody  a  good  Journey  more  heartily 
than  I  do  to  them.  Besides  their  Company,  you  will 
have  a  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brooke,  friends  of  Colonel 
Macmahon,  who  recommends  them  warmly ;  so,  I 


ELIZABETH, 

SECOND    DAUGHTER    OF    SIR    PHILIP    FRANCIS. 


To  face  page  508.] 


1802]  n:be  ffrancts  betters  509 

think,  if  our  dearest  Harriet  continues  to  mend,  you 
will  not  pass  an  intolerable  Winter  at  Nice.  Once 
for  all  I  forbid  Economy.  Deny  yourself  nothing  that 
can,  ever  so  minutely  contribute  to  your  happiness  or 
Comfort,  unless  you  wish  to  destroy  mine.  As  to 
your  return,  think  not  of  it  until  the  Time  approaches. 
You  shall  have  no  Care  nor  Trouble,  that  my  genius, 
or  the  Rack  of  Invention,  can  contrive  to  save  you. 
Mr.  Yarrow,  at  least  has  a  fair  chance  of  seeing  the 
Mediterranean  before  he  dies.  I  shall  not  undertake 
to  write  separately  to  the  old  boy  [Philip]  ;  so  let 
this  serve  for  you  all  jointly  and  severally.  He  is 
spoken  of  here,  with  the  greatest  kindness  and  always 
by  the  Title  of  my  good  friend  Philip.  To  my 
Excellent  associate  H[arry}  E[yre]  I  really  would 
say  something  particular  and  very  expressive  but  that 
I  know  he  is  actually  in  better  hands.  There  sits  the 
fair  and  now  the  fat  Elysium  [Eliza  Johnson]  writing 
to  him  with  a  fury  and  a  Vengeance.  Those  gentle 
Emotions  partake  of  passion,  and  one  passion  creates 
another,  and  there  I  leave  the  Conclusion  to  your  own 
Sagacity.  Of  my  Affections  at  least  he  may  rest 
assured,  that  he  shall  carry  them  with  him  to  his 
grave.  Catharine,  I  suppose,  omits  nothing,  true 
or  false  in  the  family  History.  So,  on  my  own 
private  Account  all  I  have  to  say  is  that  on  Sunday 
the  i  Qth  of  September,  I  arrived  at  Hothfield  to 
dinner,  and  I  staid  there  till  the  8th  of  this  month 
very  agreeably,  the  finest  weather  imaginable  and 
no  company  but  the  Rev.  Mr.  Mossop,  who  is  not 
only  in  possession  of  his  Living  but  very  well  estab- 
lished in  the  House  of  his  Patron.  So  there  I  leave 


sio  Ube  ffrancte  Xetters  [1802 

him  to  make  his  own  way  as  fast  as  he  can,  to 
Canterbury  or  Durham.  On  the  9th  instant  I  took 
up  my  quarters  with  dear  Mary,  and  here  I  live  ; 
but  have  invariably  dined  with  P[rince  of]  Wfales] 
of  whose  kindness  to  her,  and  to  that  Vixen  Elysium 
I  hope  to  give  you  a  true  and  faithful  account.  Lord 
Thurloe  and  a  certain  right  Revd.  Prelate  are  their 
constant  Society,  which  makes  them  both  as  proud 
as  the  Devil.  My  Evenings,  for  the  most  part, 
are  past  at  Blindman's  Buff  with  Ladies  of  Quality 
from  Moscow  and  Archangel.  They  want  me  to 
embrace  the  Errors  of  the  Greek  Church ;  but,  I 
flatter  myself,  my  principles  are  not  within  the  reach 
of  Conversion.  By  this  Conveyance,  you  will  receive 
as  many  Dispatches  as  the  Secretary  of  State  for  the 
Foreign  Department.  Every  hand  in  the  Family 
is  employed  in  your  Service.  As  to  me,  chere  Elise, 
what  can  I  say  of  Love  for  you  both  that  would  not 
fall  far  short  of  the  truth !  I  am  your  joint  and 
common  property.  Let  others  answer  for  themselves. 
Vous  riaurez  jamais  un  autre  pere  tel  que  moi.  This 
accomplished  Letter  was  proceeding  to  a  conclusion 
when  Lo  !  and  behold,  this  very  morning  at  breakfast 
the  said  Mary  produces  an  invaluable  piece  of  manu- 
script dated  at  Avignon,  and  all  of  it  written,  with 
her  own  pretty  fist,  by  the  dearest  Doll  that  ever 
was  in  the  South  of  France,  except  a  little  bit  by  a 
Cat  with  a  paw ;  and  we  all  cried  for  joy.  Little 
did  I  think  that  cursed  voyage  would  have  proved 
so  calamitous !  but  it  is  past,  and  so  I  hope  are  all 
your  troubles  by  this  time.  You  talk  of  Marseilles, 
as  if  you  meant  to  go  that  way.  I  hope  you  have 


Zlfoe  jfrancte  ^Letters  5^ 

done  so.  That  City  and  Toulon  are  worth  seeing 
and  the  difference  of  time  overpaid  by  the  roads.  Of 
your  merits  and  patience  every  heart  in  this  house 
has  a  deep  Impression,  and  somehow  or  other,  we 
even  love  our  Doll  the  better  for  being  the  Object 
of  your  Care.  Philip's  Character  comprehends  the 
Hero  and  the  Doctor  equally.  It  is  hard  to  say  which 
of  them  becomes  him  best.  This  very  day  will 
Elysium  and  I  walk  up  to  the  Windmill,  and  look 
over  the  Sea  and  think  of  future  happiness  on  the 
same  Cliff!  This  incomparable  infant  is  now  sitting 
opposite  to  me  working  her  fingers  to  the  Bone  ;  and 
all  the  Horseleys  dine  here  today,  and  I  must  desert 
the  pavillion.  I  saw  little  Mary  write  every  Word 
of  that  Letter  herself  without  Help  !  Adieu,  chers 
petits.  There  is  no  room  to  tell  you  .  .  .  and  if  I 
had  I  could  not  .  .  . 

"P.  F." 

On  the  arrival  of  the  party  at  Nice,  Philip  writes 
to  one  of  his  sisters  in  London,  referring  to  the 
journey  : — 

"  November i  1802. 

"  When  I  look  back  at  what  we  have  done,  when 
I  consider  that  it  has  been  done  in  6  days  [from  Paris 
to  Nice]  that  our  poor  Invalid  with  the  'remainder 
of  a  heavy  cold  upon  her  which  she  caught  on  Board 
the  Vessel  was  one  of  the  Party,  all  her  symptoms 
increased  by  the  agitation  of  her  fatigue  and  fears, 
when  I  reflect  upon  all  this  and  that  we  are  now 
safely,  nay  successfully  arrived  at  Nice  without  having 
met  with  the  slightest  disaster  or  bad  accident  I  am 
almost  disposed  to  consider  it  as  a  dream,  that  the 


si2  Gbe  jfrancts  betters  [1802 

thing  has  been  done  for  us  in  our  sleep,  and  that  we 
just  now  awake  to  see  and  enjoy  the  benefit  resulting 
from  it.  .  .  ." 

Elizabeth  also  writes  : — 

"  Sally  I  daresay  remembers  the  entrance  into 
Nice  is  by  a  road  with  pretty  white  Houses  at  ten, 
twenty,  thirty  yards  distance  from  one  another  and 
which  is  called  Rue  d'Anglois  and  where  all  the 
English  live,  sheltered  above  on  one  side  by  beautiful 
Mountains  covered  with  Flowers  and  on  the  other 
side  the  sea.  For  the  first  house  we  were  too  late,  two 
Gentlemen  having  taken  it  the  night  before,  but  the 
next  was  precisely  the  thing  we  wanted,  which  consists 
of  the  first  floor,  first  a  little  anti-room,  on  the  right 
of  which  goes  the  drawingroom,  a  very  handsome 
sized  room  at  the  bottom  of  which  is  a  small  room 
with  one  window  looking  into  the  Road  and  up  those 
beautiful  Mountains,  this  is  to  be  exclusively  my 
property,  on  the  left  of  the  anti  which  is  rather  a 
handsome  article  in  itself  is  one  bedroom,  a  very 
good  room,  all  these  to  the  sun,  the  sea,  and  the 
Garden,  a  very  large  one  full  of  orange  trees,  where 
my  child  may  crawl  in  and  out  twenty  times  a  day, 
and  at  the  bottom  a  very  fine  terrace  built  high  and 
the  shingles  below,  I  am  sorry  to  say  there  are  no 
sands.  Out  of  our  room  a  door  into  another  equally 
good,  which  Oliver  is  to  sleep  in  and  is  otherwise  to 
be  occupied  as  I  like.  This  is  very  nicely  furnished 
and  everything  put  into  it  that  I  have  asked  for,  we 
pay  30  louis  for  6  months  very  decent  proper  people 
living  in  it,  and  no  Lodgers  but  ourselves.  I  have 


i8o2]  zrbe  jfrancte  %etters  513 

secured  a  Pianoforte  at  a  Louis  a  month  which  is 
worth  its  weight  in  gold,  I  have  secured  a  woman  to 
bring  a  cow  to  be  milked  at  the  Door  every  day, 
am  expecting  the  character  of  a  famous  Valet  de  Place, 
and  am  only  wishing  Sunday  was  come  that  we  might 
take  possession  of  all  these  comforts,  for  we  cannot  go 
to  our  house  before." 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  LONDON, 
"25^  November,  1802. 

"...  The  medicine  Baillie  has  given  me  I  hope 
will  do  me  good,  but  its  first  effect  is  to  make  me 
very  sick.  It  is  Snakeroot  and  so  nauseous  that 
Mr.  Chilver  called  yesterday  to  enquire  who  in  the 
family  could  be  obliged  to  take  anything  so  nasty.  .  .  . 
Your  Mamma,  and  I  go  on  with  the  picquet  and  I 
have  won  so  much  money  lately,  that  she  has  assured 
me  unless  I  allow  her  sometimes  to  win  she  must  give 
it  up.  You  will  be  surprised  to  hear  how  handsomely 
Colonel  Ironsides  has  rewarded  his  wife  for  all  he  has 
made  her  suffer  during  his  lifetime.  He  has  left  her 
,£4,000  per  annum,  house,  jewels  &c.  .  .  ." 

MARY  JOHNSON  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"SOUTH  PARADE, 
"Friday,  \yth  Novr.,  1802. 
"  MY   DEAR   SlR, 

"  The  little  society  here,  were  extremely 
pleased  by  the  arrival  of  your  Letter  yesterday 
morning,  as  it  was  a  proof  that  they  retained  some 
place  in  your  remembrance,  which  indeed  is  but  just — 
as  their  feelings  of  regret  for  your  loss  are  renewed 
daily.  At  Breakfast  time  I  am  no  longer  wakened 


si4  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1802 

and  roused  by  the  animating  sound  of  your  voice 
on  the  stairs  calling  for  Elysium,  who  deeply  sighing 
often  casts  a  melancholy  look  at  your  empty  chair, 
vainly  wishes  you  there  and  that  she  was  again 
employed  in  your  service — however  you  give  us  the 
consolation  of  hoping  you  will  return  before  Christmas, 
that  hope  supports  our  drooping  spirits — so  pray,  do 
not  disappoint  us. 

"  We  are  in  admiration  at  the  constancy  of  the 
Countess's  attachment — change  of  scene  cannot  banish 
you  from  her  thoughts,  even  life  itself  seems  to  be 
painful  and  uninteresting  in  your  absence — her  daughter 
and  M'amselle  Pietron  dine  with  us  today — I  have 
invited  the  Beau  .Ralph  to  meet  them — and  in  the 
evening  his  fair  Scotch  friends  Mrs.  and  the  Miss 
Browns.  The  Bishop  and  family  to  give  an  air  of 
gravity  and  decorum  to  the  party.  We  dined  at  Lord 
Thurlow's  on  Tuesday  and  staid  till  1 1  o'clock,  and 
have  passed  the  two  last  evenings  at  the  Bishop's. 
We  are  still  anxiously  expecting  to  hear  of  the  dear 
ones  at  Nice.  I  had  flattered  myself  we  should  have 
had  some  account  of  them  from  Sheen  this  morning — 
but  of  that  we  are  disappointed.  Adieu  mon  tres  cher 
Pere.  God  bless  you  and  all  our  dear  friends  who 
will  tomorrow  be  assembled  in  St.  James's  Square. 
Ever  yours  affectionately, 

"  M.  JOHNSON." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"  MOST  DEAR  CHARINE,  "26  Decr"  I8°2' 

"  I  arrived  here  at  seven  last  night,  after  a 
tedious  journey  of  fourteen  hours,  of  which  four  were 


jfrancts  Xetters  515 

in  utter  darkness,  an  excellent  dinner  was  ready  to 
receive  me  and  all  my  Distresses  were  forgotten  in 
a  moment.  Philip's  Letter  furnishes  comfort  and 
Hope.  I  try  all  I  can  to  keep  my  thoughts  within 
that  limit  ;  beyond  it  Speculations  are  useless.  The 
Distance  and  the  Intervals  between  the  letters  are 
tormenting  but  we  are  in  the  case  and  this  is  part  of 
it.  When  you  write  next,  insert  the  following  words. 
4  My  Father  desires  and  insists  that  the  word  Money 
may  be  mentioned  to  him  no  more.  Philip  has  a 
credit  on  Drummond,  and  Elizabeth  on  Gamba  to 
any  amount.  When  the  whole  Account  is  made  up, 
he  will  look  at  nothing  but  the  Balance  and  pay  it.' 
.  .  .  Mary  and  Eliza,  if  their  pen  is  equal  to  the 
Task,  will  inform  you  how  much  they  have  been 
honoured  at  the  Pavilion,  and  with  what  kindness 
and  cordiality  they  are  always  received  there.  Supping 
every  night,  and  yesterday  to  eat  their  Christmas 
dinner.  It  is  devilish  cold  here  ;  that  is  out  of  doors. 
Everything  within  side  is  happy ;  and  here  I  am  at 
rest.  So,  with  kind  love  to  Sally  and  Maw,  I  bid 
you  heartily  farewell. 

"  P.  F." 

The  "  Minny "  referred  to  in  the  following  letter 
was  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  adopted  daughter,  of  whom 
the  Prince  was  very  fond. 

MARY  JOHNSON  TO  SARAH  FRANCIS. 

"SOUTH  PARADE, 
"27/#  December,  1802,  Monday. 

"  MY  DEAREST  SALINE, 

"  I  was  quite  sorry  that  I  had  not  a  moment 
to  write  to  you  yesterday  but  thank  you  a  thousand 


516  ZTbe  jfrancte  ^letters  Li8°2 

times  for  dear  Philip's  Letter,  which  has  brought  us 
very  great  comfort  and  happiness,  as  it  confirms  our 
anxious  hopes  of  our  own  dear  Harriet's  amendment — 
and  encourages  us  to  trust  in  the  gradual  advancement 
of  her  recovery.  .  .  . 

"  We  have  passed  every  evening  (till  near  3  o'clock 
in  the  morning)  at  the  Pavilion  this  last  week.  I 
cannot  do  justice  by  all  that  I  can  say,  to  the  charming 
Prince's  gracious  kindness  and  goodness  to  us.  Eliza 
is  almost  equally  captivated  with  him  as  your  Sister, 
who  acknowledges  her  weakness  (if  it  must  be  called 
so)  and  extreme  admiration  of  all  his  amiable  qualities, 
fascinating  manners,  and  uncommon  accomplishments 
— his  talents  for  conversation  and  powers  of  enter- 
tainment are  truly  extraordinary  and  delightful.  We 
have  had  many  proofs  that  the  excellence  of  his  heart 
is  equal  to  his  incomparable  understanding — but  you 
will  think  me  distracted,  so  I  must  proceed  more 
moderately  and  inform  you  that  his  R.H.  had  the 
goodness  to  invite  us  in  the  kindest  and  prettiest 
manner  to  dine  with  him  on  Christmas-day — you  may 
imagine  we  were  highly  gratified — a  most  happy 
joyous  day  it  was — for  in  the  morning  I  received 
your  Letter  and  good  accounts  of  our  dearest  Harriet. 
My  Father  you  know  left  us  early,  which  I  regretted, 
but  every  other  event  of  the  day  was  interesting. 
Little  Minny  dined  with  the  Children — and  the  dear 
Prince  came  in  the  morning  to  see  them  (all  at  high 
romps)  and  us — he  staid  with  us  some  time  and 
nothing  could  exceed  his  agreeableness  or  kindness. 
His  R.H.  was  so  good  as  to  send  his  Carriage  which 
conveyed  us  at  six  o'clock  to  the  Pavilion,  where  he 


1802]  Ufoe  ifrancts  Xetters  5*7 

received  us  with  his  peculiar  grace  and  elegance. 
The  Prince  handed  me  in  to  dinner.  I  sat  on  one 
side  of  him  and  Mrs.  Fitz  on  the  other,  and  Eliza 
amongst  a  crowd  of  Beaus.  We  three  were  the 
only  Ladies  and  13  or  14  gentlemen.  A  magnificent 
dinner  and  animated  Conversation  chiefly  supported 
by  His  R.H.  in  the  evening  a  very  large  party  and 
delightful  Concert.  We  spent  yesterday  evening  at 
the  Pavilion  and  staid  there  till  near  3  o'clock  this 
morning — it  was  the  most  interesting  of  all — with 
heavy  hearts  we  took  leave  of  the  charming  P[rince] 
and  Mrs.  F[itzherbert]  who  left  Brighton  this 
morning — a  melancholy  day  (tho'  affording  many 
agreeable  flattering  recollections)  it  has  been.  I 
have  not  time  for  another  word  but  must  not  forget 
to  mention  that  I  sang  last  night  at  the  Pavilion 
'  Cara  Nina '  and  '  Sogni!  I  hope  you  will  be  able 
to  read  this  long  history  and  believe  me  Your  Most 
Affectionate 

"  MARIE." 

"  Pray  burn  this  Letter  for  I  should  not  like  my 
attachment  to  our  future  Sovereign  to  be  publicly 
known,  so  I  beg  you  will  not  leave  it  out  but  destroy 
it.  I  hope  you  have  received  the  Brawn." 

JOHN  GODFREY  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

[1802.] 

"  Indeed  my  Dear  Francis  all  this  cooping,  Stuffing 
and  Cramming  seems  to  agree  with  you  wonderfully 
well,  for  your  Letter  is  wrote  in  that  stile  that  denotes 
Health  and  Spirits,  and  that  you  may  long  enjoy 
them  is  my  earnest  wish.  But  as  all  things  in  this 

VOL.    II.  12 


ITbe  jfvancte  Xetters  [1802 

best  of  all  Possible  worlds  have  their  limits  I  am 
not  without  hopes,  that  tired  at  last  with  all  your 
feastings  and  Junkettings,  Blindman's  buff  and  all, 
you  will  yet,  before  we  quit  this  place  (which  at 
present  we  have  no  intention  of  doing  till  the 
beginning  of  December)  find  your  way  here  and  in 
humble  rustication,  plain  living  and  Temperance  do 
penance  for  past  sins  and  lay  in  a  store  of  vigour 
for  the  Commission  of  new  ones.  This  Spot  is  not 
however  without  its  attractions  and  pleasures.  As 
a  Proof — next  Saturday,  Lord  and  Lady  John,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Dent,  Mrs.  Chapman  and  four  Lovely 
Damsels  from  16  to  20  years  of  age  Dine  and  pass 
the  Evening  with  us,  perhaps  you'll  think  they  want 
the  soft  musical  name  of  your  Russian  Nimphs.  But 
here  we  are  not  so  fastidious  and  Beauty  even 
without  a  name  is  Good  enough  for  me.  I  am 
rejoiced  at  hearing  so  good  an  account  of  Mrs. 
Johnson  and  the  fair  Eliza.  But  whilst  they  take 
such  dignified  Beaux  under  their  Protection  let  them 
take  care  of  their  Hearts.  They  know  the  world 
is  malicious  and  will  not  spare  either  a  learned  Judge 
or  a  Reverend  Bishop.  Remember  us  kindly  to  all 
the  Family.  If  it  should  come  a  Propos,  I  should 
be  obliged  to  you  if  you  would  mention  me  to  the 
Prince,  and  hint  my  regret  at  being  prevented  by 
Circumstances  from  presenting  my  Humble  duty 
and  thanks  for  his  kind  Interference  which  restored 
to  me  the  wine  from  Bourdeaux  which  would  have 
been  lost  without  him.  You  know  best  how  and 
which  way  that  ought  to  be  done,  and  to  your 
Superior  Judgment  I  leave  it.  But  at  the  same 


1802]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  519 

time  pray  do  not  forget  to  say  everything  proper 
from  me  and  Mrs.  G.  to  Mrs.  Fptzherbert]  she 
was  very  kind  and  friendly  to  us  at  Malvern.  I 
shall  avail  myself  of  your  Intelligence  of  the  Miss 
Berries  and  will  send  a  letter  to  your  home  by 
Saturday  next.  I  have  received  a  charming  Epistle 
from  Elizabeth  dated  Lyons — they  were  to  embark 
the  next  day ;  our  warmest  and  sincerest  Good 
wishes  attend  them.  Her  health  and  that  of  the 
Interesting  Invalid  are  drank  every  day  in  this 
Cottage  and  nothing  can  afford  us  greater  satisfaction 
than  to  hear  of  her  return  to  Health  and  Happiness. 
As  to  us  we  are  in  statu  quo.  I  do  not  think  I 
grow  young,  but  I  do  not  find  I  wear  fast ;  and 
for  your  sake  I  will  last  as  long  as  I  can.  Indeed 
I  shall  not  like  to  quit  you.  I  shall  be  in  Town 
the  Qth  and  loth  of  next  month  and  perhaps  you 
will  contrive  to  be  there  too  and  travel  down  with 
me  on  the  nth.  But  that's  a  long  way  off.  Mrs. 
G.  sends  her  love  and  Duty  to  her  Guardian  and 
hopes  he  will  not  let  the  autumn  pass  without  coming 
to  see  her.  Miss  Fitter  is  with  us  and,  was  she  not  a 
Maiden  Damsel,  would  send  her  love  too.  Adieu. 
Believe  me  ever  yours, 

"  J-  G." 

The  hopes  of  the  family  as  to  the  ultimate  benefit 
of  the  winter  at  Nice  to  the  invalid  were  doomed  to 
bitter  disappointment.  Harriet  ("  Dearest  Doll")  died 
early  in  the  year  1803,  and  was  the  first  English 
person  buried  in  the  Protestant  bury  ing-ground,  which 
had  just  been  set  apart  for  the  purpose.  The  funeral 
took  place  in  the  night  by  torch-light ;  but  in  spite 


S2o  Ufoe  jfrancts  Xetters  [1802 

of  this  precaution  the  people  found  out  the  hour  at 
which  the  unusual  ceremony  could  be  witnessed,  and 
crowds  arrived  on  the  spot  beforehand,  and  climbing 
on  the  walls  which  enclosed  it,  watched  the  pro- 
ceedings with  a  mixture  of  curiosity  and  compassion. 
As  soon  as  the  funeral  was  over,  Philip  and  Elizabeth 
set  off  for  England.  The  weather  was  intensely  cold 
and  the  roads  almost  impassable,  and  Elizabeth,  en- 
feebled as  she  was  by  the  long  nursing  of  her  sister 
and  by  grief  at  her  loss,  performed  a  great  part  of 
the  journey  on  horseback.  The  brother  Philip  wrote 
to  his  mother  from  Aix-les- Bains  en  route,  describing 
their  journey  and  condition  up  to  that  place,  Elizabeth 
herself  adding  a  few  lines. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  MRS.  FRANCIS. 

"Aix,  HOTEL  DU  COURSE, 
"Monday,  Feby.  yth,  1803. 

"  MY  DEAREST  MOTHER, 

"  We  left  Nice  on  Wednesday  Morning  the 
2nd,  as  my  letter  to  Sally  of  that  date  announced — 
and  arrived  here  yesterday  at  2 ;  without  accident 
or  difficulty  of  any  kind. — Elizabeth  rode  the  greater 
part  of  the  way,  by  which,  besides  avoiding  the 
fatigue  she  must  otherwise  have  undergone  in  the 
carriage,  she  got  a  great  deal  of  wholesome  exercise 
which  has  been  of  service  to  her. — Having  got  our 
carriage  over  the  Estrelles,  and  along  these  desperate 
roads  of  Provence,  without  fracture  of  any  kind  we 
bid  defiance  to  any  difficulty  of  that  kind,  which  may 
yet  await  us. — The  cold  was  intense  but  we  were 
well  prepared  against  it,  particularly  Lizzie,  who  by 
the  kind  attentions  of  various  friends  at  Nice  has  been 


1803]  ZTbe  ffrancis  Xetters  521 

armed  from  head  to  foot  for  combat  with  the  Frozen 
north.  We  now  only  wait  for  our  companion  Harry 
[Eyre]  who  went  with  his  carriage  and  the  Luggage 
by  sea  to  Marseilles,  and  for  letters  to  be  forwarded 
to  us  from  Nice  here,  to  proceed  on  our  journey. — 
But  you  must  not  be  impatient,  one  does  not  travel 
in  France  at  this  season,  as  you  would  from  Bath 
to  London.  Bad  roads  certainly  will,  and  falls  of 
snow  may  delay  us.  But  tho'  we  may  proceed  slowly, 
be  satisfied  that  it  is  at  the  same  time  surely.  .  .  . 
Elizabeth  is  perfectly  well  and  does  her  best  to  keep 
up  her  spirits.  We  are  here  in  the  same  party  with 
the  Poores — they  are  going  to  Montpellier — but  must, 
as  well  as  ourselves  wait  for  Harry,  who  has  their 
carriage  in  charge.  A  thousand  embraces  to  dear 
Sally  and  Mary — and  believe  me  your  Affectionate 

Son. 

H  p   p  » 

ELIZABETH  FRANCIS  AT  THE  END  OF  HER  BROTHER'S 

LETTER. 

"In  the  few  moments  I  am  allowed  I  ought  not  to 
attempt  describing  the  impatience  I  feel  daily  and 
hourly  to  be  once  again  with  those  dear,  most  dear 
friends  still  so  far  off- — but  I  think  of  nothing  else 
unless  it  be  the  kindness  I  have  received  and  must 
ever  remember  from  those  we  have  left,  in  truth  my 
heart  is  too  full  to  add  anything  to  all  dear  Phil 
will  so  much  better  have  told  you — but  let  us  look 
forward  and  hope  happiness  is  to  unite  all  that  are 
left  for  long  and  many  years  to  come.  God  bless 
and  preserve  you  all." 


$**  Ube  ifrancte  letters  tl8°3 

Meanwhile,  through  some  unfortunate  postal  mistake, 
Philip's  letters  from  Nice  describing  his  sister's  last 
illness  and  death  never  reached  England.  This  un- 
accountable break  in  the  receipt  of  letters  probably 
alarmed  the  father  and  friends  at  home,  for  we  hear 
of  Francis  as  well  as  his  daughter  Catherine  and 
Eliza  Johnson  being  in  Paris  in  January,  1803, 
whether  with  the  intention  of  proceeding  south- 
wards does  not  appear.  Whilst  they  were  in  Paris 
they  heard  of  Harriet's  death  through  a  friend,  and 
Francis  wrote  to  Sally  : — 

"  HOTEL  DE  L'EMPIRE,  PARIS, 
"Jan.  2tfht  1803. 

"  DEAR  SALLY, 

"  Of  course  you  know  the  fatal  Event,  which 
has  fixed  us  here  till  the  arrival  of  the  dear  Survivors 
of  that  irreparable  Calamity  ! 

"  We  hope  to  hear  every  day  of  their  having  left 
N  ice ;  and  then  we  shall  be  able  to  calculate  at  what 
time  we  may  expect  to  see  them.  Before  the  end  of 
this  month  I  cannot  allow  myself  to  think  of  that 
happiness.  .  .  .  Our  having  the  Company  of  dearest 
Eliza  was  more  than  fortunate,  as  an  Event  it  was 
against  all  the  chances  ; — as  a  source  of  Comfort 
and  Consolation  to  me  and  of  Essential  benefit  to 
Catherine  it  cannot  be  estimated  or  conceived  but 
by  us  who  have  felt  it.  What  should  I  have  done,  if 
Catherine  had  had  no  care  or  Company  but  mine, 
poor,  dear  Soul,  her  Courage  is  far  beyond  her 
strength. 

"  I  suppose,  but   without   knowledge,   that  they  set 
out  on  or  before  the   loth.     Of  their  progress   I  can 


1803]  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  523 

make  no  Calculation.  I  rely  on  your  strength  of 
mind  to  console  your  poor  Mother  and  Sister,  as 
well  as  you  can.  My  dear  Companions  desire  to 

fill  up  the  rest  of  the  paper. 

"Yours,  yours, 

"  P.  F." 

ELIZA  JOHNSON  TO  SARAH    FRANCIS,  LONDON. 

"  HOTEL  DE  L'EMPIRE,  PARIS, 
"24/&  January,  1803. 

"  I  hope  my  dearest  Friends  you  will  feel  some 
little  comfort  in  hearing  that  poor  Catherine  has  really 
borne  up  under  this  sad  affliction  better  than  we  could 
have  hoped.  Her  mind  is  so  bent  on  giving  con- 
solation to  dear  Elizabeth  and  Philip  on  their  arrival, 
that  she  exerts  herself  to  the  utmost  of  her  strength 
and  is,  thank  God,  quite  composed.  ...  I  fear 
your  Father  allows  too  little  for  the  delays  their 
distress  may  occasion  when  he  tells  us  we  may  hope 
to  see  them  the  end  of  this  month. 

"  We  have  no  sort  of  Account  but  H.  Eyre's  Letter 
of  the  3rd  to  Mrs.  G.  If  you  have  heard  any  thing 
of  poor  Elizabeth  of  a  later  date  it  would  be  a  great 
relief  to  Catherine  to  know  it — for  her  anxiety  about 
her  is  not  to  be  described.  She  is  well  in  health, 
but  her  ceaseless  anxiety  about  those  dear  sufferers 
whom  she  imagines  on  their  road  hither  makes  me 
pray  for  their  speedy  arrival,  or  at  least  for  some 
tidings  of  them.  .  .  . 

"  E.  JOHNSON." 

Eliza  Johnson  was  right  in  thinking  that  Francis  had 
allowed  too  short  a  time  for  the  travellers  to  reach 
Paris.  By  her  son's  letter  to  Mrs.  Francis  we  saw 


524  ZTbe  ffrancta  Xetters  [1803 

that  they  did  not  get  to  Aix  until  the  end  of  the 
first  week  in  February.  As  time  went  on  and  neither 
travellers  nor  tidings  arrived  in  Paris,  Francis,  was 
unable  to  bear  the  suspense,  and  undertook  to  go  and 
meet  his  son  and  daughter,  first  sending  Catherine 
and  Eliza  home. 

But  in  spite  of  this  effort  he  missed  the  party, 
and  had  to  return  to  England  disappointed  and  alone. 
His  irritable  temperament  led  him  to  the  conclusion 
that  Philip  had  neglected  to  write  to  him,  and  he 
managed  somehow  to  convey  a  most  bitter  and  re- 
criminating letter  to  his  son,  who  in  passing  through 
Paris  found  all  the  letters  he  had  written  home  at 
the  Post  Office.  Writhing  under  a  sense  of  cruel 
injustice  at  such  a  reception  after  all  he  had  undergone, 
the  younger  Philip  arrived  in  St.  James's  Square  with 
his  sister,  and  on  entering  his  father's  presence  flung 
his  own  letters  on  the  table,  exclaiming  :  "  There, 
sir,  I  have  brought  you  your  daughter  Elizabeth, 
and  there  are  my  letters."  The  misunderstanding 
was  soon  forgotten  on  both  sides,  and  Francis 
devoted  himself  to  the  care  of  this  dearly  loved 
daughter,  who  appears  to  have  been  the  most  gifted 
physically  and  mentally  of  the  five. 

In  the  autumn  of  this  year  Francis,  when  visiting 
at  Hothfield,  writes  to  his  wife  : — 

"  HOTHFIELD, 
"2yd  Septr,  1803. 

"  MADAME,  ET  TRES  HONOREE  MERE, 

"  You  know  as  well  as  I  do  what  the  Weather 
was  yesterday;  so  all  that  remains  for  me  to  tell  you 
is  that  my  journey  was  prosperous,  and  my  Arrival 


1803]  Ube  ffrancfs  Xetters  525 

fortunate.  The  house  was  exactly  where  I  left  it, 
the  dinner  ready,  and  the  said  Mossop  in  higher 
feather  than  usual,  having  killed  many  birds. 

"  Except  eating  heartily,  drinking  copiously,  and 
sleeping  soundly,  I  have  done  little  or  nothing.  And 
so,  honoured  Lady 

dear  Sally 

do    Mary 

do    Catharine 

do    Tiddy  [Mary's  youngest  daughter]. 
I  bid  you  farewell,  as  I  am  in  a  hurry  to  copy  this 
for  the  2  Elizas  [Elizabeth  and  Eliza  Johnson]. 

"P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTERS. 

11  HOTHFIELD, 

"30**  Sepr.,  1803. 
"  MOST    DEAR  INFANTS, 

"  I  write  today  because  I  cannot  write 
tomorrow.  All  the  elements  here  conspire  to  make 
me  happy  ;  but  Separation  from  some  spoils  the  rest. 

"  Lord  Cowper  is  just  gone,  and  now  the  Survivors 
are  going  to  a  Sale  of  Sir  Horace  Mann's  goods 
and  Chattels  about  seven  miles  off  Elizabeth  re- 
members his  magnificence  at  Margate.  En  voila  le 
denouement.  I  look  to  the  reunion  of  us  three  with 
an  impatience  that  ruins  enjoyment.  Where  the 
Devil  did  Parson  Sneyd  get  twelve  thousand  pounds ! 
The  poor  dear  Berries  were  eight  days  at  Sea. 
However,  it  is  well  they  are  on  shore. 

"Who  can  say  more?  My  heart  is  with  you  in 
undivided  moieties. 

"  P.  F." 


s*6  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1803 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"  27th  Sept,,  1803. 

"  My  own,  the  dear  Secretary's  Letter  of  Sunday  is 
some  satisfaction  in  hard  times  and  bad  quarters. 
No.  41,1  should  think,  must  be  high  in  North  Street, 
and  that  may  keep  you  out  of  mischief.  Lord  Coleraine 
better  known  by  the  Name  of  blmy  left  us  on  Sunday, 
and  was  succeeded  by  Lord  Cowper  and  Bob  Adair, 
and  they  both  got  drunk  yesterday  in  the  absence 
of  Lord  Thanet,  who  went  to  Sittingbourne  to  look 
after  the  Volunteers,  who  begin  to  grow  devilish 
unwilling.  He  is  a  Lieutenant  Colonel  already  and 
before  the  French  land,  may  very  well  be  a  Field 
Marshall. 

"  Miladi  frets  like  a  broken  Fiddlestick,  and  swears 
she  won't  stay  in  the  House  with  us  if  we  are  resolved 
to  get  drunk  in  this  manner,  every  minute.  Let  who 
will  do  the  mischief  I  always  pass  for  the  Author  of 
it.  But  I  won't  mind  her.  There's  nothing  like  a 
good  Conscience,  except  a  good  dinner.  Having 
both,  and  a  breakfast  into  the  Bargain,  I  make  a 
shift  not  to  repine.  Adair  has  seen  the  Berries,  they 
are  well,  and  have  suffered  no  material  hardship, 
except  travelling  through  Hanover,  where  the  French 
General  was  very  polite  and  offered  to  marry  them, 
and  make  them  a  Settlement  of  any  Baron's  Chateau 
they  fancied,  and  they  declined  it,  being  betrothed  in 
England. 

"  Now,  dearest  Infants  I  have  nothing  more  to  say 
but  that  I  look  charmingly  and  am  inviolably  yours, 

"  P.  F. 


1803]  ZTbe  jfrancte  betters  5*7 

"  P.S.  One  of  these  footmen  has  lately  married  Miss 
Penley,  a  divine  creature,  who  used  to  clean  Mossop's 
lodgings  at  Sheen,  and  so  he  joined  their  hands.  I 
wish  you  would  speak  to  Adair  not  to  make  so  many 
wry  faces,  which  miladi  calls  Grimaces  in  french. 
Alas !  I  fear  I  cannot  answer  for  my  arrival  at 
Brighton  in  less  than  a  Week  after  the  Day  on  which 
you  receive  this.  The  most  distant  hint  on  that  delicate 
Subject,  would  make  Miladi  frantic,  insane,  cracked, 
out  of  her  Wits ;  or,  in  plain  English,  stark  mad." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  THE  EARL  OF  THANET. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"  October  14,  1803. 

"  Suffice  it  to  say  that  the  dog  may  weep,  but  he 
shall  bleed  too,  the  vital  drops  that  animate  his  purse. 
Your  reputation  at  Drummonds  is  safe.  I  wish  I 
could  say  as  much  of  your  property.  If  I  ever  saw 
that  letter  from  F.  to  P.  [Fox  to  the  Prince  of 
Wales  ?]  may  my  lady  take  me.  It  is  true  he  repeated 
the  contents,  and  those  I  have  forgot.  A  letter  of 
a  most  secret  nature,  from  Surrey,  informs  me  that 
the  alternate  and  eternal  party  at  Addington's  or  at 
Tierney's  consists  of  those  two  and  of  Erskine, 
Sheridan,  Dallas  and  Adam  to  the  everlasting  exclusion, 
confusion  &c.,  of  Hiley  and  Bragge.  .  .  .  Tyrwhit  Jones 
is  sometimes  admitted  and  then  they  are  complete. 

"  Of  feasting  there  was  no  end  till  yesterday,  when 
P.  went  to  town  to  return  next  week. 

"  No  grievances,  much  less  any  retrospect,  Miladi 
and  I  are  sworn  friends  for  life  ;  and  now  I  defy  all 
your  vain  Ligurian  arts.  I  am  quite  sure  that  we  can 


528  Ube  ffrancte  Xctters  [1803 

never  be  divided,  unless  we  are  cut  in  two.  I  fear 
that  reverend  divine  will  forget  the  only  cunning  he 
possesses.  Not  a  fowl  have  I  seen,  but  that  poor 
little  provision  which  I  had  the  good  fortune  to  bring 
with  me.  These  two  children  have  eaten  nothing  else 
since  my  arrival.  All  the  play  in  which  you  ever 
acted  or  suffered  is  mere  pippin  squeezing  compared 
with  what  is  perpetually  going  forward  here  at  Raggets. 
Every  day  we  hear  of  ten  or  twenty  thousand  won  and 
lost.  The  actors  are  Messieurs  Aubrey,  Johnstone, 
Burrows,  Taylor,  Trevis,  Gage,  &c.  .  .  .  Captain 
Capel  offered  one  day  to  bet  a  hundred,  which  for 
some  time  was  not  accepted,  and  at  last  out  of  mere 
civility,  and  to  accommodate  the  gentleman.  I  am 
now  the  only  man  in  the  world  who  doubts  about 
invasion.  So  not  to  be  foolhardy,  where  so  many 
women  are  in  question,  I  have  written  to  a  friend  to 
secure  me  a  retired  house  about  thirty  miles  north  of 
London  ;  and  I  advise  you  to  pick  up  as  many  guineas 
as  you  can  find.  Master  Shallow,  I  owe  you  two 
pounds.  Yes,  Sir  John,  and  I  wish  you  would  let  me 
have  it  with  me.  That  may  not  be,  Master  Shallow. 

"As  to  Miladi  that  finale  was  a  coup  de  grace.  .  .  . 
In  short  I  am  much  more  hers  than  my  own  ;  but  not 
quite  so  much  hers  as  of  a  beautiful  damsel  here,  to 
whom  I  have  made  a  promise  of  marriage." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  6th  Nwr.,  1803. 
"  MOST    DEAR   AND    EXCELLENT    CATHERINE, 

"  Arriving   in  town,    I   called  on  Windham, 
and   saw   the   Necessity  of  attending   the    House   of 


1803]  ZTbe  jfrancfs  ^Letters  529 

Commons.  So  I  dispatched  Crane  with  this  fatal 
intelligence  and  a  remuneration  of  a  Shilling  to 
Sloane  St. 

"  Nevertheless  I  arrived  there  in  person  between 
seven  and  eight,  found  everything  comfortable  and 
ready  and  dined  happily.  The  infants,  raging  with 
health  and  inability  to  sleep,  insisted  on  sitting  up 
to  keep  me  company,  and  carried  their  point  by  force 
of  roaring. 

"  Send  for  Sprunt  and  advise  with  him  how  we 
shall  manage  the  cows,  I  mean,  including  dear  Betty's 
heifer.  I  think  they  may  be  kept,  under  cover — viz., 
the  two  cows  in  the  cowhouse,  but  not  fastened  by 
the  neck,  and  the  child  in  the  farthest  woodhouse. 
They  must  be  fed  with  Hay.  .  .  .  Philip  who  had 
dined  here,  walked  home  with  me  in  the  Teeth 
of  the  fiercest  North  East  wind  I  ever  beheld  ;  and, 
between  eleven  and  twelve  there  was  the  heaviest  fall 
of  snow  that  ever  fell  in  one  hour  in  London. 

"So  dearest  Infant  take  care  of  yourself,  for  I  have 
taken  my  final  resolution  not  to  survive  you  or 
anybody,  I  need  not  tell  you  how  anxious  I  am  to 
hear  of  the  poor  dear  Invalid. 

"  P.  F." 

"  Your  letter  by  Yarrow  is  just  arrived,  for  which 
I  am  most  thankful.  The  account  I  heard  last  night 
relieved  me  a  good  deal — but  pray  never  represent 
things  better  than  they  are." 

"The  invalid"  was  Elizabeth,  whose  health  was 
failing  rapidly  as  Harriet's  had  failed. 

Yarrow  has   been    mentioned    in    previous    letters. 


Ube  ffrancts  Xetters  [1803 

He  was  Francis's  valet,  a  very  highly  valued  and 
faithful  servant  for  many  years.  The  following  anec- 
dote is  told  of  him  :  One  night  on  Francis's  return 
to  his  house,  Yarrow,  then  old,  and  rarely  quitting 
the  porter's  chair  in  the  hall,  met  his  master  with  a 
very  long  face.  He  must  quit  him  that  night !  The 
reason  he  gave  was  this.  Thirty  years  before  that 
time  his  wife  and  he  had  deliberately  parted  company 
in  India  ;  "  and  now,"  said  he,  "  she  has  found  me  out 
and  proposes  that  we  should  live  together.  She  is 
coming  to  me  again  to-morrow  afternoon,  and  I  am 
determined  she  shan't  find  me."  At  cockcrow  next 
day  he  was  gone — and  no  one  ever  knew  whither. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

\About  December )  1803,  Part  missing^ 

"  With  regard  to  any  Letters  I  receive,  I  beg  of 
you  to  rest  satisfied,  until  you  have  reason  to  think 
otherwise,  that  I  am  not  only  trusty  but  discreet. 
By  tomorrow's  coach  I  shall  send  you  a  pot  of  the 
best  Cavear  I  was  ever  master  of.  Forgive  this 
paper,  I  cannot  find  another  bit  in  the  house.  You 
may  tell  Lord  T.  that  the  greatest  admirers  of 
Volunteering  are  startled  at  some  late  Vagaries  in 
that  Department.  Others  begin  to  think  that  the 
thanks  of  the  House  of  Commons  might  as  well 
have  waited  for  the  Service.  At  last  we  have  found 
out  that  the  only  use  of  six  hundred  thousand  Men  in 
Arms  is  to  garrison  the  two  Islands,  to  make  a  vigorous 
Defence,  and  to  repel  Invasion. 

"  Philip  will  shew  you  how  to  eat  the  Cavear.  At 
Sheen  we  go  on  much  as  usual,  and  I  hope  not  worse. 


1803]  ZTbe  fftancis  Xetters  531 

"  Lady  Talbot  died  suddenly  of  an  Inflammation, 
Tom  Stepney  complained  to  me  bitterly  last  night  that 
Lord  Thanet's  letter  to  him  was  not  sealed.  Howorth 
and  I  are  to  share  in  a  Lottery  Ticket  which  I  am  to 
pay  for.  To  write  or  to  utter  a  parcel  of  words  without 
meaning,  merely  to  kill  time  or  fill  paper,  does  not 
deserve  to  be  called  Conversation  or  Correspondence. 
Souvenez  vous  de  cela,  belle  dame,  et  de  moi" 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  DEAR  KATE,  "&*  D*c->  l8°3- 

"  I  forgot  to  tell  you  that  I  must  be  in  the 
House  of  Commons  on  Friday,  so  that  it  will  be 
useless  as  well  as  very  inconvenient  for  me  to  go 
to  Sheen  before  Saturday.  On  that  day  let  the 
Groom  be  in  town  with  my  saddle  horses  at  one 
o'clock  and  bring  a  line  from  you  with  him.  There 
was  wine  left  in  the  Cabinet  in  my  room  below 
stairs.  .  .  .  came  to  Sloane  Street  at  two  this  day 
to  communicate  your  Letter  to  these.  .  .  . 

"P.  F." 

One  of  "  these  "  [Eliza  Johnson]  writes  on  the  same 
sheet  from  Sloane  Street  to  Miss  Catherine  Francis 
at  Sheen  : — 

"Your  Father  as  you  see  has  just  been  making 
us  happier  by  your  account  of  this  morning  and — since 
the  Waterman  was  here — has  taken  the  agreeable 
resolution  of  staying — I  trust  these  next  three  days' 
quiet  will  help  your  dear  Lizzie  in  spite  of  the  cold. 
The  snow  fell  a  foot  deep  last  night  in  an  hour  and  \. 
Your  Papa  has  brought  us  his  speech,  as  a  reward  for 
our  patience  last  night.  His  visit  and  your  Brother's 


532  tTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  [1803 

were  as  follows.  The  dinner  hour  fixed  ^  past  5 — 
No  tidings  of  either  till  ^  past  six  when  Philip 
arrived  and  apologised  for  his  late  appearance  by  the 
state  of  anxiety  and  suspense  he  had  been  kept  in 
from  the  moment  he  came  to  Town  by  the  non- 
appearance  of  his  property.  Tully  had  left  it  in 
charge  with  the  man  at  Putney  Bridge  to  put  into 
the  first  stage  and  was  at  last  obliged  to  end  his 
own  disgrace  and  his  Master's  uneasiness  by  another 
walk  there  and  back  ;  his  return  to  the  Temple  with 
the  Baggage  was  a  seasonable  relief  to  him  and  us. 

"  We  sat  down  to  Dinner  and  had  concluded  about 
half  an  hour  when  your  Father  arrived  from  the 
House,  so  full  of  politics  and  speeches  that  having 
learnt  all  we  could  tell  him  of  Sheen — he  commanded 
a  profound  silence — forbid  the  door  being  opened  after 
the  mutton  chops  were  once  admitted  and  the  children 
sent  off  to  Bed — eat  his  dinner,  woke  Philip  out  of 
a  sound  sleep,  in  which  the  stillness  of  the  party 
had  encouraged  him,  and  set  him  to  writing  his  speech 
which  was  not  completed  to  his  satisfaction  till  ten 
o'clock  and  ended  with  '  Now  sir,  you  may  walk  off 
instantly  to  the  Press  with  that.'  They  both  took 
their  leave  and  left  us  to  reconsider  all  these 
grievances  which  were  not  as  light  of  digestion  as 
you  may  imagine.  We  did  not  retire  till  past  12. 
However  to-day  he  has  made  his  peace  by  bringing 
your  letter.  .  .  . 

"  We  are  just  going  out  to  walk  and  he  says  this 
must  go  to-day,  so  with  kindest  love  to  dear  Lizzie. 

"  Your  ever  affectionate, 

"  E.  JOHNSON. 


1803]  ttbe  ffrancte  Xetters  533 

"  If  I  cannot  send  the  Books  sooner  you  will 
have  them  on  Friday  by  the  coachman." 

Eliza  Johnson,  after  spending  a  short  time  at 
Sheen,  pays  a  visit  to  Boulney  Court. 


PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZA  JOHNSON. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"Jan.  %tht  1804. 

"  Why,  my  own  dearest  Infant,  you  have  not 
been  able  to  explain  to  me  yet,  by  what  Legerdemain 
you  were  suddenly  conveyed  from  Sheen  to  Boulney. 
How  came  Mrs.  Strode  to  be  invited  ?  What  is  her 
connexion  ?  and  why  the  Devil  could  not  she  go  by 
herself?  Whoever  wants  to  travel,  must  take  Eliza 
for  a  Pelisse.  In  short  the  loss  of  you  is  insupport- 
able and  I  can  bear  this  place  no  longer.  Mr.  Yarrow 
and  I  set  out  tomorrow  at  nine,  and  on  Tuesday 
I  proceed  to  Sheen  then  to  Town  on  Wednesday, 
when  and  where  I  hope  to  receive  a  detailed  history 
of  your  Adventures  from  your  own  pretty  Fist. 
Philip,  in  order  to  complete  his  recovery  chooses  to 
stay  another  week,  which  is  more  than  Milady 
chooses.  It  snows  impetuously,  and  Milady  is  as 
mad  as  Bedlam  at  the  horrid  prospect  of  losing  me. 
Lord  George  Cavendish  came  on  Thursday  and 
stayed  two  nights.  In  return  I  just  took  the  trouble 
of  winning  two  Guineas  from  him.  This  is  all 
the  Variety  we  have  had,  in  other  respects  we  are 
much  the  same.  Accounts  this  morning  from  Sheen 
not  so  favourable.  The  bitter  change  in  the  weather 
made  me  fear  it.  ...  This  Solitude  would  not 
be  solitary  if  we  could  prevail  on  anybody  to  visit 

VOL.  ii.  13 


534  Ube  jfrancis  betters  [1804 

us.  We  invite  the  whole  World.  We  have  an 
incomparable  House,  and  keep  an  excellent  Table, 
and  nobody  comes  to  us,  so  My  Lady  and  I  take 
a  Chaudt  together  every  night,  hot,  strong,  and 
narcotic,  but  to  sleep  without  dreaming  would  be 
absurd,  and  to  dream  of  any  object  but  one  impossible, 
so  you  see  my  nights  are  as  uniform  as  my  days — 
Dearest  Elisa, 

"  Why  did  you  go  ? 

"  How  long  do  you  stay  ? 

"  When  do  you  return  ? 

"  Always  end  your  letters  with  a  question  and  as 
abruptly  as  possible.  Ceremony  in  Letters  is  as  dull 
as  in  Society. 

"P.  F." 

The  writer  of  the  following  letter  is  Mrs.  Hodges, 
wife  of  Colonel  Hodges,  of  Boulney  Court,  Henley- 
on-Thames.  Colonel  Hodges  was  uncle  to  Eliza 
Johnson  on  her  mother's  side — the  first  wife  of 
Godschall  Johnson. 

MRS.  HODGES  TO  MRS.  JOHNSON. 

11  BOULNEY  COURT, 
"6th  Jan.,  1804. 

"  MY  DEAR  MRS.  JOHNSON, 

"  I  rejoice  to  hear  so  good  accounts  of  your 
young  ones  who,  Eliza  tell  me,  are  looking  vastly  well, 
how  well  she  looks  herself,  is  grown  quite  fat  which 
becomes  her  exceedingly. 

"  I  had  a  letter  yesterday  from  Harriet  Eyre  (from 
Ireland)  written  with  trembling  hands,  not  having 
recovered  the  alarm  of  Tuesday  morning  when  the 


1804]  t£be  jfrancte  betters  535 

Troops  were  ordered  under  arms  at  5  o'clock,  a 
fleet  being  in  sight,  supposed  to  be  the  French,  but  she 
says  in  the  latter  part  of  her  letter  they  were  in 
hopes  it  would  prove  a  false  alarm,  or  at  least  that 
their  little  Island  was  too  inconsiderable  to  be  an 
object  to  Buonaparte. 

"  I  am  afraid  that  Dover  is  more  likely  to  be 
attempted  which  will  rather  annoy  our  Bride  and 
Bridegroom.  Mrs.  Eyre  gives  a  very  good  account 
of  my  son  John  and  says  that  he  quite  enjoyed  the 
bustle  of  that  morning,  did  not  mention  Harry  who, 
I  daresay,  was  not  less  alert.  .  .  . 

"  Our  best  compts.  attend  all  the  family  at  Sheen, 
kiss  the  two  little  girls  for  me,  and  believe  me, 

"  Truly  yours, 

"  S.  HODGES." 

The  following  eight  letters  were  written  from 
Boulney  Court  by  Eliza  Johnson,  who  had  gone  to 
spend  a  fortnight  with  her  uncle  and  aunt.  Eliza's 
younger  sister  Emily  (aged  15)  was  also  on  a  visit 
there — Emily  generally  lived  with  her  father's  cousin, 
Mrs.  Fullerton.  The  other  guests  mentioned  by 
Eliza  Johnson  in  her  letters  are  Annette,  a  married 
daughter  of  Colonel  and  Mrs.  Hodges,  Annette's 
three  children,  a  Mrs.  Strode,  a  Mr.  Grey,  and  a 
schoolboy  from  Henley.  There  were  also  in  the 
house  Harriet  and  Sally  Hodges,  the  latter  about 
Emily's  age,  and  Frederick,  a  young  son. 

Eliza's  letters  were  written  almost  daily  ;  they  were 
addressed  to  Catherine  and  Elizabeth  Francis  at 
Sheen  and  marked  "  For  the  sick  room."  Eliza 
wrote  chiefly  for  the  sake  of  affording  amusement 


536  tCbe  jfrancts  Xettevs  [1804 

to  Elizabeth,  who  was  almost  confined  to  her  bed 
by  this  time.  Eliza  Johnson  was  very  much  attached 
to  Elizabeth  and  Catherine  Francis,  who  were  like 
sisters  to  her. 

ELIZA  JOHNSON  TO  ELIZABETH  AND  CATHERINE 
FRANCIS. 

"  I  hope  my  dearest  friends,  you  are  none  the 
worse  for  this  very  white  weather.  ...  I  am  not 
by  any  means  at  home  in  the  strange  things  I  find 
going  on  here  but  I  suppose  I  shall  soon  understand 
them  better,  meantime  I  shall  keep  a  sharp  look  out 
after  Emily  who  is  by  no  means  come  here  to  devote 
herself  to  her  relations  only — She  &  Sally  are  the 
rival  beauties — but  poor  Emily  is  quite  eclipsed  having 
only  brought  her  plain  Frocks  and  Gowns,  while 
Sally  has  the  advantage  of  her  whole  Wardrobe  & 
dresses  with  endless  variety  at  Mr.  Grey  who  is  by 
no  means  the  quiet  creature  I  imagined.  It  is  a 
Scene  of  flirtation  I  was  not  prepared  for,  any  more 
than  for  seeing  Sally  come  down  to  dinner  in  a  blue 
Chambray — with  white  sleeves  &  her  head  dressed 
with  a  quantity  of  false  bands  of  hair  &  scarlet 
beads — Emily  had  done  her  utmost — which  however 
only  amounted  to  a  pink  velvet  on  her  head — a  good 
many  necklaces  &  a  vast  deal  of  squiggling,  Sally 
has  greatly  the  advantage  in  this  particular  &  has 
most  spitefully  left  off  Stays  to  give  greater  effect 
to  it — So  that  all  the  squiggling  avails  nothing.  I 
find  before  I  came  they  had  a  vast  deal  of  dancing 
&c.  but  I  have  only  seen  them  play  chess  &  Net 
purses — &  find  them  all  extremely  busy  in  getting 


i8o4]  TTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  537 

up  the  play  of  the  Rivals  in  which  they  have  reserved 
the  part  of  Sir  Lucius  o'Trigger  for  Mrs.  Strode,  and 
Julia  for  me — I   do    not    think  all  the  parts  will   be 
learnt  in  my  time,  if  they  are  our  audience  will  consist 
of  my  Uncle    &   Aunt  &   the   Babes — but    the   per- 
formers in  general  will  be  satisfied  with  each  other's 
applause — Sally  is  to  be  Lydia  Languish,  &  Emily 
Mrs.   Malaprop,  Annette  a  Gentleman,  I  am  to  have 
a   Beau  from    Henley    of   14,    to    act    Faulkland,    & 
Frederick  is  Sir  Anthony  Absolute,  Mr.  Grey  Young 
Absolute  &   Harriet   Lucy — I  don't   at  this   moment 
know   the   plot  of  the  play   much    less  a  Syllable  of 
my    part.       After    I    wrote    to    you    Yesterday    we 
ventured  out  into   the  Snow   for   an   hour  or  two  & 
then  settled  to  Work — reading  is  difficult  for  the  parts 
are  incessantly  repeating,  &  the  three  Children  con- 
stantly   at    play    in    the    Room,    they   are    a    great 
amusement  to  me,  particularly  the  youngest  Boy  who 
is  quite  a  little  character — the  Girl  is  the  least  pretty 
of  them  but  a  nice  Baby  &  just  of  a  nursing  size — 
None  of  the  Family  went  to  the  Ball  at  Park  Place 
tho'  they  were  invited,  for  my  Aunt   kept  back  the 
card  till  it  was  over — I  fear  I   shall   not  get  fishing 
unless    I    angle   out    of  the   parlour   Window    but    I 
hope  the  dear  Elizabeth  has  recovered  some  degree 
of  her  original  appetite  &  returned  to  the  Roast  Fowl 
— We  had  nothing  tempting  yesterday,  the  Chickens 
were    boiled — I     hate   such    insipid     things,    &    Pea 
Soup  &  Roast  Beef  &  Mince  pies  are  all  too  common — 
I  liked  the  Cold  Sparib  best,  &  even  that  would  not 
have  suited  her.     We  have  excellent  brown  bread — 
but  then  she  could  not   eat    it  with    bad    Butter,   & 


538  Ube  Brands  Xetters  [1804 

they  are  grown  so  miserable  they  have  neither  Milk 
Cream  or  butter  of  their  own — I  am  quite  considered 
as  one  of  the  old  folks  since  Emily  &  Sally  are  so 
come  on — so  they  make  me  play  at  Cassino  with  my 
Uncle  &  Aunt  &  Mrs.  Strode."  ' 

ELIZA  JOHNSON  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

11  BOULNEY  COURT, 
"Jan.  gth,  Sunday  Morning, 

"  I  hope  my  dear  Catty  your  poor  Head  Stomach 
&  understanding  are  better  than  when  you  wrote — I 
have  not  breakfasted  so  well  since  I  came  here  as 
on  the  Rabbits  &  Onions  your  dear  Lizzie  bespoke 
in  her  Bed.  .  .  .  Yesterday,  the  drawing  Room  was 
a  scene  of  ranting,  languishing  &  spouting  that  was 
no  bad  representation  of  Bedlam — but  I  must  tell 
you  how  we  passed  it  &  indeed  the  day  before. — 
We  were  all  engaged  after  I  wrote  to  you  in  learning 
our  parts  when  my  Beau  arrived  from  Henley  & 
declined  the  part  of  Faulkland  declaring  he  found 
it  impossible  to  look  jealous  enough,  even  with  such 
a  Julia  in  view  as  myself — this  occasioned  a  new 
distribution  of  the  parts — Emily  took  the  part  of 
Faulkland  &  made  over  Mrs.  Malaprop  to  Annette, 
who  gave  up  Acres  to  my  Beau — We  proceeded 
with  great  alacrity  all  day  &  had  made  some  progress 
— when  yesterday  a  little  Misfortune  deranged  us 
all  again — You  must  know  the  Park,  being  under 
Water,  is  now  a  complete  Sheet  of  Ice  &  immediately 
after  breakfast  the  two  Misses  and  Mr.  Grey  sallied 
forth  &  amused  themselves  with  performing  various 
feats,  one  of  which  was  his  Skating  &  driving  them  by 
turns  in  a  Chair  before  him  which  looked  so  pleasant 


1804]  ft  be  jfrancte  Xettets  539 

from  the  windows  that  we  all  ventured  out  to  try  it ; 
they  then  began  skipping  which  I  fancied  I  cd  do 
as  well  as  the  rest — but  pride  must  have  a  fall  & 
mine  had  so  complete  a  one  that  it  suffer'd  considerably 
in  the  end  of  my  nose  which  was  the  first  part  that 
touched  the  Ice— the  damage  is  not  so  considerable 
as  to  give  me  much  uneasiness — but  unfortunately 
a  black  plaister  is  indispensable  &  to  act  the  part 
of  a  sentimental  heroine  with  so  conspicuous  a  blemish 
impossible,  so  after  some  dilemma  Emily  &  I  have 
changed  characters,  she  is  to  be  Julia  &  I  her 
Faulkland — as  she  does  not  object  to  a  few  honourable 
Scars  in  her  admirer.  It  is  a  dreadful  long  part  even 
when  curtailed  of  oaths  &c. — which  however  are  only 
to  be  softened  down — I  have  agreed  to  say  '  the 
devil '  &  '  confound  it '  &  to  make  as  spirited  a 
gentleman  as  I  am  capable  of.  Emily  is  in  her 
glory — even  Stingue  is  forgot, — but  while  there  are 
two  to  contend  for  the  notice  of  their  galant  Mr. 
Grey  I  am  not  uneasy.  It  is  really  amusing  to  see 
the  part  my  Uncle  &  Aunt  take  in  these  proceedings  — - 
he  never  speaks  at  all  &  she  but  very  rarely  &  only 
to  represent  the  impossibility  of  the  drawing  Room 
being  converted  into  a  Theatre  which  however  is  a 
measure  perfectly  resolved  on  by  the  Young  Ladies 
&  either  by  fair  means  or  foul  Mr.  Grey  has  engaged 
to  introduce  a  green  curtain  &c.  Mrs.  Strode  has 
brought  down  some  novels  for  her  entertainment, 
but  finds  it  so  difficult  to  fix  her  attention  while  they 
are  rehearsing  that  she  has  adopted  the  fashion  of 
reading  aloud  for  her  own  amusement ;  Frederick 
who  is  to  be  orchestra  practices  vigorously  on  the 


540  TTbe  jfrancte  Xettets  [1804 

fiddle  ;  &  the  children  beat  their  drums  &  all  in  the 
same  room  &  at  one  time  (Babel  was  a  joke  to  it). 
I  rejoice  that  it  is  Sunday,  as  I  hope  we  shall  have 
a  respite  ;  I  find  some  advantage  in  William's  absence 
for  our  noise  is  very  harmonious — I  mean  no  quarrels 
— for  as  far  as  sound  goes  it  is  discordant  enough 
God  knows.  I  am  afraid  it  will  be  a  cruel  moment 
that  separates  Emily  from  her  new  favorite,  it  is  really 
a  high  diversion  to  us  all  to  watch  her  &  Sally  during 
Dinner  &  see  the  looks  they  cast  at  each  other,  he 
sits  between  &  deals  out  his  attentions  as  equally 
as  he  can,  but  it  is  a  difficult  part  &  he  has  not  a 
moments  respite  from  morning  till  night.  I  almost 
think  he  answers  to  the  idea  of  a  seducer  but  it 
is  astonishing  what  indistinct  notions  I  am  left  with 
on  a  subject  I  have  heard  so  much  of — pray  my 
dear  Catty  be  not  uneasy  at  the  idea  of  my  falling 
in  Love  I  shall  attend  to  that  &  every  other  caution 
you  give  me.  My  Uncle  &  Aunt  never  leave  their 
Nests  before  two  o'clock — the  rest  of  the  Family 
assemble  About  eleven — I  contrive  to  crawl  down 
between  9  &  10  Wrapped  up  in  my  great  coat,  I 
believe  the  Thermometer  would  stand  at  zero,  there 
is  nothing  for  it  but  to  eat  &  drink  immoderately — 
loads  of  Brown  bread  for  Breakfast  &  home  made 
cake  for  Luncheon  &  as  for  the  dinners  I  contrive 
to  pick  up  a  meal,  but  My  Aunt  is  at  her  old  tricks 
in  house-keeping,  a  grand  Feast  the  first  day  to  give 
an  impression,  &  less  &  less  every  day  since — the 
substantiate  yesterday  were  dwindled  to  roast  mutton 
at  one  end  &  boiled  mutton  &  broth  at  the  other 
but  always  cold  Pork, 


1804]  ZTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  541 

"  Emily  is  just  come  down  to  Breakfast  dressed 
in  a  new  stile,  she  has  romped  till  every  Gown  she 
has  is  more  or  less  Unfit  for  service  except  a  very 
old  clear  &  short  Muslin  Frock — the  body  of  which 
defies  all  the  arts  of  squiggling  &  therefore  she 
has  put  on  over  it  a  white  calico  Spencer  which 
has  no  strings  in  it — to  remedy  this  defect  she  ties 
a  light  blue  string  round  the  waist — &  the  Neck 
is  allowed  to  hang  open  &  display  her  poor  frost 
bitten  neck.  She  suffers  considerably  from  the  cold 
in  her  feet  &  would  gladly  wear  a  pair  of  list  shoes — 
but  alas — Mrs.  Wm.  Hodges  carried  off  one — the 
remaining  one  however  she  wears  on  her  left  foot, 
&  on  her  right  a  purple  dancing  shoe  which  with 
a  pair  of  worsted  stockings  &  the  clear  frock — 
which  hardly  covers  the  calf  of  her  leg  makes  a  good 
medley.  Sally  sails  in  triumphant  with  a  clean 
Cambrick  Gown  &  plaited  habit  shirt — indeed  Emily 
would  be  quite  cast  down  if  she  had  not  discovered 
that  Mr.  Grey  admires  tall  people." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"Monday  Morning. 

"  Good  Morning  to  you  my  dearest  Friends.  .  .  . 
I  have  been  considerably  disturbed  by  the  toasted 
cheese  &  sausages  My  Uncle  dined  on  yesterday — 
he  gave  notice  early  in  the  night  that  he  felt  the 
heart  burn  &  took  good  care  that  nobody  within 
hearing  should  sleep  while  he  was  awake — I  sleep 
next  Room  to  them  with  a  door  between.  ...  I 
have  the  comfort  of  seeing  a  complete  Thaw  which 
I  rejoice  at,  first  for  your  sakes — &  a  little  for  my 


542  ttbe  jfrancte  Xettets  [1804 

own — for  the  company  invented  a  new  sport  yesterday 
which  did  not  very  well  agree  with  the  state  of  the  air. 
Mrs.  Strode  had  made  an  engagement  with  us  to 
walk  to  Church  yesterday  but  as  she  never  made  her 
appearance  till  near  eleven  that  was  given  up  &  we 
had  Church  at  home  which  was  over  by  one  o'clock 
&  we  then  took  a  long  walk  &  returned  about  | 
past  2.  My  Aunt  had  forbid  the  rehearsal,  being 
Sunday,  &  I  thought  the  day  promised  to  pass 
quietly  enough,  when  Frederick  introduced  a  famous 
Bow  &  Arrows  he  had  lately  bought  &  the  Com- 
pany were  all  seized  with  a  desire  of  trying  their 
skill.  Mrs.  Strode  in  particular  declared  she  had 
been  a  famous  archer  in  her  Youth — &  a  Target 
was  set  up  about  twenty  yards  from  the  House 
— meantime  it  began  to  snow  &  there  was  no 
venturing  out,  but  it  was  kindly  suggested  by  Mr. 
Grey  that  she  might  shoot  out  of  the  window  which 
was  instantly  thrown  up  to  the  Top,  &  each  of  the 
party  took  their  turn — without  the  smallest  considera- 
tion of  the  few  who  could  not  partake  of  the  sport  & 
sat  shivering  by  the  Fire.  This  airy  amusement 
continued  full  an  hour  &  half  when  My  Aunt  came 
sailing  in  with  an  appearance  that  could  not  fail  of 
reminding  us  more  forcibly  than  words  that  it  was 
time  to  go  &  dress — She  had  made  an  extraordinary 
effort  in  her  own  toilette  &  you  shall  judge  if  it  had 
notanswer'd.  A  Mob  Cap  the  lappets  of  which  were 
composed  of  part  of  an  old  Lawn  petticoat  work'd 
by  Mrs.  Fullerton  in  large  Spots,  Mama  must  re- 
member it — these  were  trimmed  with  a  coarse  edging, 
the  rest  of  the  Cap  was  puckered  Muslin,  which  has 


1804]  ZTbe  Brands  betters  543 

lain  by  some  time  &  does  not  look  the  whiter  for  being 
pucker'd.  A  scarlet  &  purple  ribbon  which  was 
put  round  her  head,  a  bow  in  front — one  behind, 
&  one  under  the  Chin.  A  double  Muslin  handker- 
chief on  her  neck  very  much  starched — a  ruff  round 
her  throat  of  Gauze  &  blond  Lace — A  Sattin  Gown 
(one  of  my  oldest  Friends)  light  blue  &  orange 
in  a  sort  of  stripe — full  tops  of  the  same  &  long 
white  sleeves  underneath  made  of  coarse  checked 
muslin  &  a  petticoat  of  the  same  description  but  of 
a  different  pattern'd  check — a  sash  of  white  Sattin 
Ribbon  &  the  front  of  the  Gown  which  was  an  open 
one  trimmed  down  with  black  velvet.  Under  her 
white  Sleeve  the  tops  of  a  pair  of  dark  Gloves. 
She  was  really  irresistible.  I  did  not  dare  to  take 
more  than  one  glance  at  first.  We  all  endeavour'd 
to  accommodate  ourselves  to  the  order  of  the  day — 
&  a  very  well  dressed  party  I  assure  you  we 
were  but  the  best  of  us  would  describe  but  flatly 
after  the  Queen  of  the  Set.  A  better  dinner  than 
common  &  all  in  very  good  humour — but  in  the 
middle  of  the  desert — we  met  with  a  slight  in- 
teruption — there  is  a  party  of  Strolling  players  at 
Henley  who  finding  Sunday  a  leisure  eveg — took  the 
trouble  of  Walking  over  to  solicit  My  Aunt  to  bespeak  a 
play  as  all  other  Ladies  in  the  Neighbourhood  have 
done.  My  Uncle  seemed  only  then  to  have  received 
the  Gift  of  Speech — &  the  use  he  made  of  it  has 
quite  reconciled  us  to  his  usual  tranquility — but  he 
was  overcome  in  the  end  &  a  play  bespoke  for  one 
night  this  week,  the  day  to  be  fixed  hereafter — the 
choice  of  the  piece  was  refer' d  to  Frederick,  who 


544  TTbe  jfrancis  Xettevs  [1804 

taking  into  consideration    the    conveniences   of  their 
Theatre  which  is  a   Stable    has    order'd  '  the   Castle 
Spectre '  with  superb  scenery  &  Machinery,   &    '  no 
Song  no  Supper/  &  we  are  to  fill  the  Stage  Box — 
We  thought    it    necessary  to   be  a  little   considerate 
of  My  Uncle  after  the  severe  attack  on  his  nerves, 
so  Annette  &   I   staid  with  him  in    the  parlour  the 
whole  evening   as  the  most  sober  of  the   company, 
&  the  rest  adjourn'd  to  their  sports  in  the  drawing 
Room — I   took  two  or  three   naps   in    the  course   of 
the  evening  but  made  good  use  of  my  time  between 
whiles  &  really  thought  I  had  deserved  better  of  him 
than    to  be  disturbed  all    night  with  hearing  of  his 
heart-burn.     I  go  on  slowly  with  my  part — we  have 
but  one  copy  of  the   Rivals  among   us   so    that   we 
have  each  been  obliged  to  write  our  parts  out.     Mine 
in  my  scrawl   fills    16   pages  of  paper  &  we  are  to 
perform    it    on    Thursday    so    that    I    have    full    em- 
ployment— We    made    an   attempt  yesterday   to   put 
an  end  to  it  but  it  produced  such  despair  in  the  two 
heroines   that  we   have  promised  to    do   our  best — 
the    truth  is    I    have   had   almost    enough    of    it.     I 
like  very  much  the  passing  an  hour  with  you  in  this 
way  the  first  thing.  ...   I  am  really  to  be  pitied  for 
being  already  an  Observer  of  these  interesting  scenes 
&  never   a   principal  ;  but  my  turn    will    come — that 
prospect  is  the  only  Consolation  I  have  to  turn  to  when 
I  find  myself  slighted  by  Mr.  Grey    &  Frederick  in 
favour   of  these    two    Misses — for    Frederick    is   not 
wholly    discouraged    by   the    elegant    figure    of   his 
Rival,  from  endeavouring  to  make  himself  agreeable 
to    Emily — I    have   two   little    Beaux   however   who 


1804]  ZTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  545 

are  very  fond  of  me — the  little  one  has  been  told 
I  am  his  God  Mama  &  calls  me  his  God  Almighty 
Mama, — I  never  saw  so  odd  a  child." 


THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

11  Tuesday  Morning. 

"  ...   I  do  like  to  unburden  my  Mind  of  one  days 
nonsense   before   I    engage  in  another  &  in  half  an 
hours  time  the  scene  will  open  for  the  day,  or  perhaps 
a  little  later  as  we  did  not  get  to   Bed  till  near  two 
o'clock  this  morning — After  breakfast  Yesterday  we 
had  a  rehearsal — in  which   I    took  part  for  the  first 
time — I  knew  but  little  of  my  part  &  that  little  did 
not  give  satisfaction.     Emily  says  I  do  not  look  the 
least  as  if  I  was  in  love  with  her  &  She  is  very  sure 
Julia  would  never  have  admired  such  a  little  insignifi- 
cant Man  as  I  make — full  a  head  shorter  than  herself. 
It  is  hardly  worth  while  to  dress  herself  as  elegantly 
as  she  intends  for  such  a  Faulkland — I    reminded  her 
that  all  these  objections  came  too  late  but  she  says 
nobody  could  have  believed  I  shd  look  so  very  bad  as 
I  do  in  a  long  great  coat  &  Hat — however  perhaps  I 
may  be  more  tolerable  by  Candlelight — Annette  has 
been  equally  unlucky  for  after  learning  great  part  of 
Mrs.  Malaprop  we  find  there  are  objections  not  to  be 
obviated   to   her  wearing   the   dress    &    Harriet  has 
undertaken  it  after  making  one  bargain  that  her  hair 
shall   not  be  dragged  off  her  forehead.     She  cannot 
make  up  her  mind  to  looking  so  very  ugly  even  in 
joke.     We  have  given  up  this  point  to  her,  for  her 
figure    in   all    other   respects    is   incomparable  —  My 
Aunt's  Maid  has  lent  her  a  pompadour  silk  Gown  & 


546  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  tl8°4 

petticoat  that  stand  alone,  &  which  were  given  to  her 
by  my  mother  on  her  wedding  day — they  are  made 
correctly  in  the  then  fashion  &  worn  with  a  fly  hoop 
the  waist  so  long  that  when  Harriet  is  dressed  in 
them  her  length  from  the  Hip  downwards  is  quite 
absurd — long  double  Ruffles — a  fly  Cap,  the  wings  of 
old  fashion'd  lace  &  the  cap  of  Yellow  White  Crape 
with  a  pompoon  of  Garnets  in  the  front  &  a  Capital 
necklace  &  earings  to  match.  A  White  Lace  Apron  & 
a  pair  of  very  high  heeled  white  shoes  with  Stone 
Buckles — altogether  with  her  little  upright  figure  she 
is  a  perfect  figure  for  the  Stage.  Mr.  Grey  in  a  full 
dressed  velvet  suit  of  the  Col's  &  his  hair  in  a  Bag 
and  powder  d — Frederick  in  a  Capital  white  wig  & 
Emily  &  Sally  two  complete  fine  Ladies.  This 
dressed  rehearsal  has  given  all  the  performers  great 
encouragement  except  Mrs.  Strode  &  myself  who 
find  we  make  but  a  pitiful  appearance — &  to  say  the 
truth  I  am  rather  sick  of  the  Stage  altogether.  About 
2  o'clock  Yesterday  the  Henley  players  judging  from 
the  badness  of  the  weather  I  suppose  that  they  were 
not  likely  to  have  any  other  audience,  sent  to  beg  they 
might  perform  the  play  my  Aunt  bespoke  in  the 
even* — Of  course  she  was  indifferent  as  to  the  day  & 
therefore  consented,  &  at  6  o'clock  we  set  off  8  in 
the  coach — which  did  not  break  down,  the  most 
remarkable  circumstance  in  the  expedition.  I  believe 
it  was  that  the  players  gained  so  much  in  comparing 
them  with  our  company  for  certainly  they  performed 
so  well  I  was  quite  disappointed — the  '  Castle  Spectre  ' 
if  not  as  interesting  as  Mrs.  Powell  was  a  much 
more  horrible  figure  which  perhaps  suited  the  audience 


1804]  ftbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  547 

in  general  better — there  were  about  twenty  people  in 
the  Pit  &  ourselves  in  the  Boxes — that  is  to  say  on 
a  bench — plac'd  the  whole  length  of  the  Manger  for 
the  Theatre  was  literally  a  Stable  as  you  could  not 
doubt  if  you  gave  your  nose  credit  for  being  a  person 
of  any  veracity.  I  think  the  only  remarkable  blunder 
was  in  the  scene  where  Percy  who  is  in  prison  is  to 
get  out  at  the  window  while  his  two  black  gaolers 
are  throwing  for  his  purse.  Unluckily  the  window 
being  rather  of  the  smallest — he  stuck  so  fast  that  the 
Piece  must  have  been  quite  interupted  but  for  the 
presence  of  mind  of  one  of  the  blacks  who  sprang 
forward  and  gave  him  a  friendly  push — he  returned 
instantly  to  his  dice  &  did  not  appear  at  all  less 
surprised  than  his  companion  when  he  discover'd  the 
prisoner's  escape — We  had  the  satisfaction  of  finding 
the  Earl  of  Northumberland  was  not  the  worse  for  his 
adventure  as  he  came  forward  as  soon  as  the  Curtain 
drop'd  &  performed  a  famous  hornpipe  in  his  tragedy- 
dress  to  save  time.  As  it  was  we  did  not  get  home  till 
one  o'clock — I  begin  to  think  I  am  growing  very  old  for 
I  own  I  should  not  like  many  of  these  parties  of  pleasure 
whereas  Emily  &  Sally  are  very  anxious  to  go 
again  immediately.  ...  I  have  got  a  Letter  from 
your  Father  who  says  he  has  had  a  less  favorable 
account,  but  not  a  word  in  explanation — I  did  not  use 
him  so  when  I  knew  more  than  he  did — but  pray 
thank  him  for  the  rest  of  his  Letter — I  find  he  will  be 
with  you  to  day. 

"  Mrs.  Strode,  Sally,  &  Mr.  Grey  are  gone  up  to 
make  Mrs.  Innes  a  visit  &  there  I  shall  join  them 
when  I  have  put  this  in  the  Post — for  go  it  shall  for 


548  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  [1804 

fear  you  should  think  I  have  forgot  you.  Mrs. 
Strode's  walking  so  nearly  resembles  standing  still 
that  I  do  not  imagine  we  shall  get  home  before 
dressing  time,  so  much  the  better,  for  I  miss  Annette 
&  Harriet  &  my  little  Beaux  sadly,  &  besides  now 
they  are  gone  I  am  obliged  to  be  agreeable  with 
Mrs.  Strode  for  my  Aunt  never  comes  near  us — &  I 
hate  being  agreeable  before  dinner, — Frederick  is  left 
at  home  with  Emily — I  feel  the  imprudence  of  leaving 
her  in  so  dangerous  a  situation  but  I  hope  he  is  a 
little  cooled,  by  the  bloody  nose  he  got  last  night — 
literally  he  &  Mr.  Grey  have  been  fighting  about 
Emily.  I  could  not  come  at  the  bottom  of  the  story 
but  one  of  Fred's  outrages  I  find  was  the  tearing 
Stingue's  Picture  out  of  her  Pocket  Book  which  Mr. 
Grey  resented  by  way  of  precaution,  his  own  having 
lately  been  allowed  a  place  there.  I  only  wish  he 
was  as  galant  to  me  for  I  have  been  left  to  scramble 
over  the  ploughed  field  without  the  smallest  assistance 
while  Sally  has  had  the  benefit  of  his  arm  the  whole 
way  but  then  to  be  sure  her  Pelisse  is  of  a  full  rose 
colour — God  bless  you  all  my  dearest  friends  I  shall 
try  &  wait  with  patience  for  a  line  tomorrow. 

"  Yr  affectionate 

"  Liz." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  Thursday. 

"  .  .  .  So  this  is  quite  a  Gala  day. — Yesterday  was 
a  very  dismal  one. — do  not  fear  my  putting  a  stop 
to  any  improprieties  I  observe  tho'  I  must  confess 
both  the  young  Ladies  make  rapid  strides,  since 


1804]  Gbe  jfrancte  Xetters  549 

Annette    left    us    I    have    had    more   opportunity   of 
observing    them,    &   am    really   astonished    at    their 
progress. — I    believe    I    never    have    mentioned   the 
subject  of  dress  since  I  told  you  of  the  grand  Toilette 
we   all   made   in   compliment   to   my   Aunt.     Things 
have  taken  a  new  turn  since  that,  the  appearance  of 
the   company  on    that    memorable   day,  brought   the 
subject  of  dress  much  into  consideration,  &  Mr.  Grey's 
taste  was  discover'd  to  be  simplicity  !  a  sad  blow  upon 
the  two  Girls  who  had  exhausted  their  inventions  to 
make  a  variety  in  their  ornaments,  but  it  is  never  too 
late  to  correct  ones  errors,  &  never  had  any  admirer 
more  reason  to  be  flattered  than  Mr.  Grey.     Emily 
who  had  before  thought  her  success  depended  very 
much  on  squiggling  on  a  Worked  habit  Shirt  every 
afternoon, — Appear'd  at  Dinner  yesterday  without  an 
atom  of  t^lcked  handkerchief — or  shirt  &  her  Frocks 
being  old  &  scanty   her   simplicity  almost   amounted 
to  a  state  of  nature — few  people  can  more  safely  do 
their   worst  in  this  respect,    than  Emmy,  yet  I  con- 
fess I  was  tempted  to  interfere, — however  I  thought 
to  rectify  it  after  she  had  once  made  her  appearance 
would  only   make  the  matter   worse.      So  it  passed, 
&  Sally  kept  her  pretty  well  in  Countenance.     Mr. 
Grey   was  so  flatter'd  with  this  delicate  attention  to 
his  wishes  that  he  made  himself  even  more  interesting 
than  common — indeed  I  give  him  the  greatest  credit 
for  the  equal  distribution  he  endeavours  to  make  of 
his  favours.    Yesterday  morning  his  partiality  to  Emily 
manifested  itself  in  rather  a  violent  assault  upon  Fred, 
&   poor    Sally    was    so    mortified   at    not   being  the 
Heroine  of  so  interesting  a  scene,  that  she  burst  into 
VOL.  ii.  14 


55°  ftbe  jfrancts  Xetters  [1804 

Tears,    left  the  room,    &  wd  not  speak  to  Emily  till 
we  return'd  from  Henley,  &  Mr.  Grey  had  restored 
her  peace  of  mind,  by  his  attentions  during  our  walk  ; 
but  I  shall  make   Emily  write  you  a  full  account  of 
this  fray  herself, — in  the  evening  I  had  the  honor  of 
playing   them    many   reels   which    they    danced    with 
great  spirit.     I  think   myself  very  ill  used,  for  never 
was  there  a  Lady  so  ungalantly  treated  by  so  galant  a 
Man.     What  do  you  think  of  his  letting  me  drag  home 
my  load  of  Books  from  Henley  that  his  arm  might  be 
free   for    Miss    Sally  ?     Our    expedition   ended   very 
agreeably  by  our  getting  a  lift  for  about  a  Mile  in  a 
Farmer's  Cart,  &  we  reached  home  about  4  o'clock, — 
dined  at  5 — on  a  famous  Roast  Turkey  and  sausages. 
My  Aunt  gnashed  her  teeth  dreadfully  during  Dinner, 
at    Sally's    simple   appearance,    this    is   her   constant 
way  of  manifesting  her  displeasure,  when  she  is  denied 
the  relief  of  words — to  be  sure  she  had  reason  to  be 
angry,  for    no  mother  ever   set   a    more   astonishing 
example  of  correctness  in  this  particular,  her  greatest 
enemy  cannot   reproach   her  with  an  excess  of  sim- 
plicity,  &  she  is  as  much   cover'd   up  as  one    could 
desire,  besides  being  considerably  larger  at  the  bottom 
of  her  waist  than  at  the  Top.     She  was   not  amiss 
yesterday.     A    Green    Lutestring   open   Gown,    &   a 
muslin  petticoat  work'd  in  large  Stars, — a  small  Chip 
bonnet  with  orange  colour'd  ribbons,  &  a  little  black 
Feather,  which  is  so  well  known  at  the  Bath  parties, 
that   she  can   never  venture  to  appear  there  with  it 
again    &    has    therefore   determined    to    wear   it   at 
home,  for  economy,  Sally  having  had  the  refusal  of 
it,   &  considerately  declined    it.     My   Uncle  chooses 


1804]  ITbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  551 

to  sham  a  fit  of  the  Gout  in  two  of  his  fingers,  which 
are  wrapped  in  flannel  &  furnish  a  good  excuse  for 
his  being  spared  the  only  effort  he  has  made  time  out 
of  mind, — the  lifting  his  hand  to  his  head  at  Dinner 
time,  which  office  is  now  become  too  fatiguing,  &  my 
Aunt  fed  him  yesterday  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
Roast  Turkey.  I  am  convinced  he  has  only  con- 
ceived a  disgust  to  his  right  hand,  since  it  went  into 
his  Pocket  &  drew  out  that  ^25  for  Annette,  &  has 
therefore  given  up  the  use  of  it, — or  perhaps  the  hand 
itself  was  overcome  by  such  an  extraordinary  fatigue — 
for  Gout  he  has  none.  We  play'd  Cassino  neverthe- 
less very  much  at  our  leisure,  in  the  evening, 
waiting  the  pleasure  of  his  left  hand  between  every 
card,  I  won  half  a  crown  &  made  the  excuse  of  a 
head  ache  to  go  to  Bed  &  remove  so  odious  an  object 
from  his  eyes,  half  a  crown  is  an  exorbitant  Sum  to 
be  sure  at  3d  cassino  but  I  am  resolved  to  have  it. 
As  to  my  performances  on  the  Ice,  Emmy  assures 
me  I  did  not  exhibit  higher  than  my  Garter  &  adds 
with  a  Sneer — *  but  you  need  not  be  uneasy,  Mr. 
Grey  was  not  looking  at  you' — My  nose  is  happily 
restored  to  its  original  perfection  &  what  I  dis- 
regarded at  the  time  is  become  a  more  serious  disaster 
namely  a  strained  arm — which  I  cannot  lift  to  my 
head  without  great  pain — but  it  is  better  to  day  for 
remedies  &  I  do  not  think  I  shall  return  wounded  to 
Sheen  which  I  have  rather  amused  myself  with  the 
thoughts  of.  I  have  bruises  enough  indeed,  but  they 
do  not  lay  open  to  inspection.  Emily  is  come  down 
this  Morning  greatly  distressed,  or  affecting  to  be  so, 
by  the  loss  of  a  Bracelet  of  her  own  hair,  she  was 


552  ttbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1804 

plaiting  for  a  Friend,  which  the  presumptuous  Grey 
has  secreted.  Sally  has  immediately  set  about  making 
one  in  great  hopes  that  it  will  meet  the  same  fate. 
As  to  me,  I  might  safely  scatter  all  my  locks  upon  the 
Floor,  &  no  one  would  stoop  to  pick  them  up.  I 
shall  be  happy  for  my  own  sake  when  Monday  comes 
but  I  dread  it  for  Emily.  She  has  just  asked  me 
whether  we  could  not  convey  Mr.  Grey  to  Town 
whither  he  goes  next  week." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  Friday. 

"  MY  DEAREST  FRIENDS, 

"  Em  is  writing  to  you  but  I  cannot  let 
the  Morning  pass  without  adding  a  few  lines.  It 
seems  that  Mr.  Grey  is  the  prime  mover  of  every 
thing  relating  to  Em — She  who  in  general  crawls 
down  about  ten,  nay  frequently  so  late  that  she 
&  Sally  &  Mr.  Grey  are  obliged  to  have  a  separate 
Breakfast  in  another  Room — being  informed  last  night 
that  he  was  going  out  coursing — contrived  to  make 
his  Breakfast  this  morning  at  8  o'clock  &  came 
to  my  Room  to  announce  her  intention  of  going 
to  course  with  him,  here  I  was  obliged  to  act  eldest 
sister,  not  on  account  of  the  impropriety  but  the 
fear  of  her  catching  cold — I  never  found  her  so 
obstinate,  &  I  doubt  which  would  have  got  the 
better  had  it  not  begun  to  rain  hard.  She  then 
submitted  with  a  tolerable  grace  but  I  know  she 
thinks  me  a  great  plague  &  I  own  I  behaved 
very  unkindly  last  Night,  for  being  a  good  deal  worn 
out  with  Cassino,  I  begg'd  Mr.  Grey  to  take  my 
place,  &,  for  a  whole  rubber,  She  &  Sally  were 


1804]  ftfoe  jfrancis  ^Letters  553 

left  to  their  own  flat  conversation — they  usually  play 
chess  &  he  sits  close  in  between  them  pretending  to 
instruct  them.  He  has  had  the  misfortune  to  lose 
his  Watch  &  Em  being  just  now  very  rich  has 
serious  thoughts  of  giving  him  one  —  but  I  am 
endeavouring  to  persuade  her  there  is  nothing  so 
unsentimental  from  a  Lady  to  a  Gentleman  &  that 
it  would  be  a  very  flat  return  for  a  Locket  with 
his  hair  which  she  has  on  her  neck  at  this  moment. 
The  Locket  was  presented  empty,  whether  as  a  hint 
I  will  not  pretend  to  say  but  it  was  received  as  such 
by  Emily  who  coloured  extremely  &  accepted  it, 
but  observed  She  could  not  wear  it  till  she  had  got 
some  of  my  hair  or  Sally's  to  put  into  it  for  a  Locket 
without  hair  was  a  very  stupid  thing.  I  was  at  work 
during  this  interesting  scene  for  unless  I  put  myself 
forward  they  consider  me  no  more  than  if  I  was 
superannuated.  On  this  occasion  I  could  hardly 
contain  myself — Mr.  Grey's  reply  was  not  in  words — 
they  would  have  been  far  less  expressive — he  took  my 
scissors  from  the  Table  cut  off  a  Lock  of  his  own  hair 
&  presented  it  in  a  manner  never  to  be  forgotten — 
any  more  than  the  look  &  attitude — while  she  put 
it  into  the  Locket — which  she  did  without  speaking — 
but  as  red  as  scarlet — I  confess  I  was  curious  to  see 
whether  the  same  distinction  had  been  confer'd  on 
Sally.  She  came  down  without  a  Locket  poor  Girl, 
admired  Emily's,  &  looked  quite  cast  down — Mr. 
Grey  immediately  lamented  to  her  that  he  had  only 
been  able  to  procure  one  Locket,  but  had  bespoke 
another  which  she  was  to  have  in  a  few  days  but 
not  before  Monday — this  was  doing  all  he  could, 


5S4  ttbe  jfrancfs  SLettets  [1804 

but  I  see  Emily  flatters  herself,  she  has  made  the 
deeper  impression — in  short  it  grows  so  very  interest- 
ing &  sentimental  as  the  parting  approaches — that  I 
really  pity  them  both — for  I  begin  to  think  he  has 
really  discovered  which  is  his  favorite.  Em  having 
exhausted  her  own  Wardrobe  has  had  recourse  to 
mine — which  you  may  think  a  desperate  resource, 
but  I  assure  you  she  is  not  amiss  in  my  gowns  for  we 
dont  mind  shewing  legs.  My  Aunt  has  done  nothing 
but  gnash  at  the  locket — &  has  taken  both  the  Girls 
to  Task  for  their  late  coquetry — I  confess  I  take  part 
with  Emmy  in  her  triumph  for  I  thought  Sally  would 
carry  the  day  but  circumstances  have  been  adverse 
to  her.  The  other  day  Em  was  so  fortunate  as  to 
turn  extremely  faint  at  Dinner  &  was  obliged  to  leave 
the  room,  I  believe  Sally  would  give  up  a  Week's 
Health  to  do  the  like — for  Mr.  Grey  did  not  eat  any 
Mince  Pye,  &  went  up  stairs  to  enquire  after  her 
three  times  before  Tea,  when  she  appeared  again  in 
perfect  Health  &  ready  for  Chess — Poor  Mrs.  Strode 
is  eternal  in  her  chat — not  the  least  discouraged  by 
the  silence  of  the  company  in  general  or  by  my 
absences  which  begin  to  occur  pretty  frequently  while 
I  am  making  my  remarks  &  to  say  the  truth  I  have 
had  almost  chat  enough  in  the  last  3  days.  I  am  not 
so  unreasonable  as  to  look  for  a  Letter  to  day. — As 
to  your  Father  he  will  hardly  write  as  I  have  not 
answered  his  last  Letter  and  besides  would  not  go 
into  any  particulars.  I  walked  Yesterday  to  Henley 
by  appointment  to  visit  not  Mrs.  Innes — but  her 
Husband  who  begged  I  would  honour  him  so  far  as 
to  come  &  look  over  some  curious  old  Books  he  had 


1804]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  555 

bought  lately  at  Henley, — this  was  too  tantalizing  in 
the  sound  but  when  I  got  there  I  had  the  satisfaction 
of  finding  they  were  not  at  all  in  our  way — he  shewed 
me  likewise  all  sorts  of  curiosities  &  offer'd  to  make 
me  a  present  of  a  monster  of  the  serpent  tribe  pre- 
served in  spirits  but  I  was  obliged  to  decline  it  as  I 
thought  Mama  would  not  admit  so  extraordinary 
an  inmate  in  Sloane  St.  I  have  the  pleasure  at 
least  of  knowing  I  do  not  leave  Boulney  without 
having  made  one  conquest  &  that  not  an  incon- 
siderable one." 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"Sunday, Jan.  ibth,  1804. 

"  .  .  .  Our  party  here  are  in  general  very  sorry 
for  the  approach  of  tomorrow.  Yesterday  I  devoted 
to  making  what  reparation  I  could  to  the  Girls  for 
some  parts  of  my  conduct  of  which  they  make  heavy 
complaints.  I  offered  Myself  at  Breakfast  as  a 
Chaperon  on  any  party  of  pleasure  they  chose  to  go 
upon,  Mrs.  Strode  being  so  unwell  that  she  declined 
walking.  An  expedition  to  Henley  was  agreed  on, 
the  Girls  Mr.  Grey  &  Myself  waded  thro'  a  foot 
of  mud  the  whole  way,  the  object  of  our  walk  I  was 
not  to  know  till  we  arrived  at  Henley — Mr.  Grey 
conducted  us  straight  to  the  confectioners  where  we 
were  treated  with  the  best  cakes  it  afforded  &  the 
Girls  then  informed  me  we  were  going  about  a  mile 
further  to  a  Farm  House.  I  represented  that  we 
had  already  walked  near  three  miles  but  they  reminded 
me  of  my  own  offer  &  proceeded  to  the  Farmers', 
took  a  second  luncheon  of  Apples  &  Ginger  Wine — 


556  ftbe  JFrancte  Xetters  [1804 

after  which  the  Farmers  Dung  Cart  with  some  clean 
Straw  at  the  bottom  &  drawn  by  a  Sober  old  Horse 
was  brought  to  the  door  &  Mr.  Grey  proposed  driving 
us  home  in  it,  this  was  in  truth  their  only  object  in 
coming  so  far.  I  was  a  little  afraid  of  mischief 
myself,  &  knew  my  Aunt  would  be  very  angry  but 
being  fairly  in  for  it  we  mounted  our  beautiful  equipage 
&  arrived  in  safety  after  a  most  delicious  ride  by  the 
Cart  Road  to  Boulney,  found  the  whole  Family  drawn 
out  at  the  door  expecting  to  find  we  had  met  with 
some  disaster  which  had  induced  us  to  travel  in  this 
new  stile.  I  bore  as  much  of  the  Lecture  as  I  could 
but  the  Girls  did  not  entirely  escape  a  few  animadver- 
sions on  this  levity  of  conduct,  however  we  got 
thro'  it  pretty  well  and  after  Dinner  my  Aunt  &  Mrs. 
Strode  were  so  complaisant  as  to  join  in  several 
Games  that  required  Numbers.  One  was  extremely 
sentimental — it  was  guessing  thoughts  &  many  were 
brought  to  light  that  were  not  a  little  diverting.  We 
then  played  at  thread  paper  verses,  questions  & 
answers,  &  many  other  Games  all  tending  to  put  the 
company  in  possession  of  each  other's  opinions  & 
sentiments.  Emily  recollected  with  great  sorrow  that 
it  was  impossible  to  play  at  chess  &  finish  a  purse 
she  has  been  netting  for  Mr.  Grey — but  upon  reflection 
gave  chess  the  preference  &  intends  to  send  him  the 
purse  in  a  Frank." 

The  following  letter  describes  a  visit  paid  by 
Mrs.  G.  Johnson  and  her  step-daughter  Eliza  to 
Mrs.  Strode,  and  was  written,  like  the  previous  ones, 
to  amuse  the  invalid  : — 


1804]  Ube  jfrancts  betters  557 

ELIZA  JOHNSON  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  Thursday  night. 

11  MY  DEAR  CATTY, 

"...  We  set  out  on  our  expedition — with  a 
good  deal  of  alacrity — for  the  first  omission  was 
quite  repaired  after  we  named  the  day  by  a  long  note 
full  of  the  Pleasure,  the  Liberty,  &c.  to  apologize  for 
asking  us  quite  en  famille  which  it  literally  proved. 
We  set  out,  at  \  before  4,  A  good  deal  dressed, 
Cap  lined  with  blue — Mr.  Lockes  white  Ribbon  round 
it  and  a  Bunch  of  white  flowers  &  mignonette — worked 
muslin  Gown — Real  necklace  &  diamond  rings — All 
meant  as  a  little  compliment  to  the  Lady  of  the  House 
on  our  first  visit — found  literally  Mrs.  Strode  &  Harriet 
Hodges, — the  Trevanions  had  been  asked  but  failed 
— &  Walpole,  out  of  Town.  Mrs.  Strode  extremely 
polite  &  brimfull  of  chat  but,  I  fancy,  is  pretty  well 
emptied  by  this  time  for  it  flowed  without  ceasing. 
We  all  bore  our  parts  occasionally,  but  H.  H.  &  I 
did  not  find  ours  a  very  difficult  one  &  had  the  full 
benefit  of  many  complete  discussions — some  not 
altogether  new  at  least  to  me — for  instance  his  R.H. 
— &  the  correspondence,  but  even  this  appear'd  for 
a  minute  in  a  new  light  when  Mrs.  Strode  observed 
that  there  was  a  great  deal  of  the  Father  in  all  the 
King's  conduct  &  even  in  his  Letter.  I  confess  I  was 
not  prepared  for  the  discovery,  but  I  like  to  hear 
all  sides  of  a  question.  I  fancy  we  leave  her  a  warm 
advocate  for  the  P — ce  for  she  is  very  tractable — in 
return  we  bring  away  new  lights  as  to  the  Manage- 
ments of  Cows  who  live  in  Houses.  She  assures 
us  that  it  is  absolutely  essential  to  their  wellbeing 


ifrancis  letters  ti8°4 

that  they  should  be  regularly  dressed  every  day  like 
Racers,  combed  not  with  a  Currey  Comb — for  their 
skins  are  too  tender,  but  a  Bone,  Ivory,  or  Tortoise 
shell  comb,  as  best  befits  the  cow's  station  in  Life.  I 
fancy  no  one  will  deny  that  ours  is  a  cow  of  the  very 
first  distinction.  After  this  she  is  to  be  rubbed  with 
a  flesh  brush — by  a  man  hired  expressly  for  the 
purpose,  this  is  absolutely  necessary — for  the  length 
of  time  this  operation  must  be  continued  to  produce 
the  full  effect,  would  interfere  with  all  commoner 
occupations.  Our  Cow's  Valet  de  Chambre  must 
therefore  be  a  personage  distinct  from  her  Butler 
&  Footman.  We  are  fully  satisfied  that  it  is  im- 
possible a  Cow  should  give  Milk  without  being 
Combed  &  Brushed — indeed  we  should  be  very 
incredulous  to  remain  in  any  other  persuasion — after 
the  many  instances  we  have  heard,  particularly  Ld 
Teignmouth  who  with  a  dairy  of  20  cows  could 
never  get  Butter  enough,  for  his  Lordship's  own 
Breakfast  till  he  took  3  boys  into  the  Stable  to  rub 
night  &  day,  Since  which  the  Family  have  been 
abundantly  supplied — I  only  tell  you  this  that  you  may 
be  aware  what  the  cream  will  be  you  will  hence- 
forward be  supplied  with.  Your  Cook  has  sent  back 
all  the  Bottles — I  like  to  do  justice.  The  day  your 
Father  came  to  Town  he  vowed  vengeance  on  the 
race  of  cooks  for  after  the  Morning  fracas  which  he 
repaired  by  writing  Mama  a  very  droll  note  the 
moment  he  got  to  Town,  he  came  to  Dinner  in  high 
good  humour  impatient  to  taste  the  Soup  &  Bouillie 
that  had  been  order'd  expressly  for  him  &  the  first 
mouthful  set  him  in  a  flame  with  the  pepper  the  Cook 


tEbe  jrancis  Xetters  5^9 

had  chose  to  put  in.  She  was  had  up  to  give  an 
account  of  herself  &  assured  us  she  had  added  it  on 
purpose  for  Mr.  Francis  who  she  knew  often  dined 
at  great  Tables  &  liked  things  high.  All  these  little 
mishaps  however  made  us  the  more  determined  to 
be  pleased  the  rest  of  the  day  &  you  would  have 
liked  his  uncommon  kindness  to  little  Marny  [Mrs. 
Johnson's  eldest  child].  I  was  glad  the  Dinner  was 
not  one  of  Catty's  providing,  I  know  My  dearest 
Lizzie  likes  to  know  people  are  not  starved  so  I  must 
tell  you  our  dinner  of  this  day  gave  great  satisfaction  ; 
Soup,  Fish,  Roast  Beef,  Patties,  Roast  fowl,  Rabbits 
&  Onions,  Mince  Pies,  Vegetables  &c.  We  sat  a 
decent  time  at  Table  &  then  went  up  to  our  work 
&  chat  till  10  o'clock  when  we  were  brought  home 
without  trouble  or  expense  by  the  kindness  of  some 
unknown  Friends ;  brought  off  the  Pattern  of  a  new 
cap  which  is  always  something  as  we  well  know, 
and  parted  highly  satisfied  with  each  other." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  ELIZABETH 
FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"  12  Jany.,  1804. 
'  MY   DEAR    LlZZIE, 

"...  My  fathers  letter  to  Lady  Thanet 
gave  us  a  great  deal  of  entertainment.  She  threatens 
to  answer  it  in  a  way  that  shall  put  her  out  of  his 
debt.  .  .  . 

"Your  own  little  brother, 

"  PHILIP. 

4 'Get  from  the  Library  a  new  edition  of  Lady  M. 


56°  ftbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  [1804 

Wortley   Montague's  works  in  5   Vols.  by  Dallmeny 
you  will  be  much  entertained." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"January  22,  1804. 

"  HONOURED  MADAM, 

"  The  historical  fact  is  that  I  arrived  here 
on  Friday,  and,  before  I  was  two  hours  old  in 
the  place,  found  myself  perfectly  settled,  completely 
arrounded,  and  entirely  at  my  ease.  Since  that  I 
have  done  very  little  but  eat  and  drink  and  game. 
Now  if  these  particulars  are  not  so  interesting  as 
you  might  reasonably  expect  from  the  company  I 
keep,  you  must  give  me  credit  for  uncommon  dis- 
cretion. I  am  actually  bursting  with  a  hundred 
secrets  ;  and  yet  I  have  the  fortitude  to  keep  every 
one  of  them  for  your  private  ear,  when  we  are 
marching  on  the  common,  and  not  a  native  within 
sight  of  us.  One  thing  only  I  shall  venture  to  impart 
to  you  in  the  severest  confidence  ;  viz.,  that  his  Royal 
Highness,  que  Dios  guarde  muchos  anos,  is  on  the 
edge  of  giving  a  ball  on  Wednesday  ;  and  as  I  am 
a  useful  as  well  as  an  ornamental  person  at  such 
festivities,  I  shall  accordingly  stay,  and  do  my  very 
best.  The  object  of  this  enterprise  is  to  celebrate 
the  Queen's  birthday.  All  the  ladies  in  the  world, 
or  in  Sussex,  are  invited,  and  they  will  all  come,  if 
they  possibly  can,  without  distinction  of  age  or  sex. 
When  I  shall  return  to  Sheen,  you  know  better  than 
I  do,  and  care  not  at  all.  Will  you  put  fist  to  paper 
on  Tuesday,  and  tell  me  whether  the  threatened 
invasion  of  Hothfield  took  place,  and  how  the  enemy 


MRS.  FITZHERBERT. 


Page  561.] 


1804]  Ube  jfvancts  Xetters  561 

have  conducted  themselves,  and  what  is  finally  become 
of  the  traitor  whom  I  left  in  your  custody  ?  I  hear 
from  London  today  that  you  are  on  the  point  of 
being  restored  to  Mr.  Pitt's  good  government  once 
more.  So  this  ministry,  like  their  own  peace,  is 
nothing  but  a  measure  of  experiment.  How  many 
more  experiments  can  we  bear  without  dying  in  the 
operation  ?  Tell  his  Lordship  that  Humphrey 
Howorth  and  I  are  joint  owners  of  a  lottery  ticket 
which  I  alone  paid  for.  Never  mind  how  you  conclude 
a  letter.  You  cannot  be  too  abrupt.  Please  to  direct 
to  me  at  the  Pavilion.  Matthew  Day  has  lent  me  a 
horse  as  fat  as  himself  which  has  not  been  out  of 
the  stable  since  August,  and  does  not  know  his 
right  hand  or  foot  from  his  left,  for  want  of  practice. 
I  shall  work  him  tomorrow  after  the  harriers.  .  .  . 
This  morning  I  just  gave  him  a  breathing  on  the 
hills,  which  made  him  transpire  copiously.  ...  If  I 
break  his  wind  I  have  agreed  that  Lord  Thanet 
shall  pay  for  him." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZA  JOHNSON. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"  Sunday \  22nd  J any  ^  1804. 

"  My  Journey  on  Friday  was  better  than  tolerable, 
considering  the  Season,  till  three  o'clock  when  it  began, 
to  rain  heavily.  Landed  at  the  Pavillion,  and  was 
received  with  such  expressions  of  kindness  and 
pleasure,  as  cannot  be  exceeded.  In  short,  I  see 
enough  to  be  assured  that  I  could  not  have  taken 
a  more  proper  step,  or  more  acceptable  to  all  parties 
here,  and  even  more  so  to  Mrs.  F[itzherbert]  than 
to  Himself.  Her  Inquiries  about  you  were  as  cordial 


562  zrbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1804 

as  can  be  imagined.  H.R.H.  insisted  on  my  having 
a  Room  in  one  of  his  Lodging  houses  opposite  the 
Pavillion,  where,  after  a  fierce  Conference  of  an  hour 
and  a  half,  I  retired  to  dress,  but  did  not  dine  till 
seven,  as  agreeably  as  possible  .  .  .  then  cards,  and 
so  to  bed  at  one.  .  .  .  This  place  seems  quite  alive, 
but  principally  with  Officers,  Soldiers  and  horses. 
There  are  a  good  many  Ladies  too.  Last  night  I 
saw  Lady  Cranley,  Lady  Warren,  Mrs.  Morant  and 
others  who  play  at  Commerce ;  and  a  Whist  table 
besides.  I  hope  you  perceive  that  all  these  particulars 
are  extremely  interesting,  for,  if  they  are  not,  I  have 
no  remedy,  and  you  have  no  resource,  and  Babby 
must  fret.  So  the  Prince  is  to  give  a  grand  ball 
on  Wednesday  to  three  hundred  persons  of  all  Sexes 
and  various  Ages,  in  honour  of  the  Queen's  birthday, 
as  he  could  not  attend  it  in  London.  ...  I  shall 
accordingly  stay,  and  do  my  best ;  and  when  I  shall 
return  to  Sheen,  you  know  as  well  as  I  do.  Dearest 
Elysium,  I  beg  of  you  to  write  to  me  vigorously 
before  you  retire  to  Sloane  Street,  and  direct  to 
me  at  the  Pavillion  ;  and  tell  me  everything  about 
the  dear  invalid ;  and  give  me  some  comfort  if  you 
can.  This  morning  I  have  looked  attentively  at 
the  Sea,  in  hopes  of  descrying  a  French  Fleet  in 
the  Offing.  Let  them  come  ;  I  am  ready  and  willing 
to  eat  all  the  Frenchmen,  who  attempt  to  land  on 
this  Surf,  and  come  ashore  alive,  for  I  cannot  feed 
on  dead  bodies.  All  the  intelligence  I  have  been 
able  to  pick  up  is  contained  in  the  enclosed  letter 
from  General  Hastings,  who  desires  secrecy.  May 
I  perish,  if  I  can  think  of  anything  else,  except  that 


1804]  Ube  jfrancie  ^Letters  563 

I  am  plagued  with  the  Toothache,  and  am  actually 
going  to  take  the  wind  on  an  ambling  Nag  which 
Matthew  Day  reserves  for  his  own  use,  which  leads 
me  to  conclude  that  I  shall  be  safe  on  his  back,  for 
if  he  can  amble  under  the  said  Matthew  he  may  very 
well  trot  with  me.  Tomorrow  I  shall  follow  the 
hounds,  if  the  weather  permits,  as  I  have  my  choice 
of  Horses.  I  have  heard  nothing  of  Macmahon ; 
but  I  expect  to  see  him  at  the  Ball.  That  person 
does  not  live,  who  could  make  more  than  I  have 
now  done  out  of  such  a  dearth  of  materials.  And 
so,  with  kind  love  to  all  whom  it  concerns,  I  take 
my  leave,  and  bid  you  heartily  farewell. 

"  P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZA  JOHNSON. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"  26th  January,  1804. 

"  The  pavillion,  you  must  know,  is  now  so  com- 
pletely fitted  up  a  la  Chinoise,  that  the  Emperor  of 
China,  whenever  he  pays  us  a  Visit  will  find  himself  as 
much  at  home  in  it  as  if  he  had  not  left  Pekin.  Last 
night  it  was  illuminated  from  one  end  to  the  other, 
and  the  whole  thrown  open  except  the  Supper  room. 
At  nine  the  Company  assembled  to  the  Amount  of 
three  hundred  and  thirty  strangers.  The  principal 
Visitors  were  the  Dukes  of  Clarence,  Kent,  Orleans, 
Montpensier,  Norfolk,  and  Richmond.  Earls  of 
Egremont,  Uxbridge,  Craven,  Guildford,  Lord 
Grantly,  Newbury  and  sundry  others,  much  too 
tedious  to  mention.  The  French  Dukes  opened  the 
Ball,  and  performed,  as  it  appeared  to  me,  as  well  as 
they  possibly  could.  The  dancing  went  on  till  twelve, 


564  ttbe  Brands  Xetters  [1804 

when  the  Supper  room  was  opened,  as  brilliant  and 
magnificent   and   with  as  fine  a  Supper  as  could  be 
imagined.     Only  one  hundred  persons  could  be  accom- 
modated at  once,  and  none  but  Ladies  sat  down  in  the 
first    instance.     I    luckily    found    my   Way,    with    his 
Grace  of  Norfolk,  into  a  Side  room,  which   was  but 
little  known,  and  less  talked  of,  where  about  twenty  of 
us  supt  at  ease,  with   some  of  the  principal  beauties, 
viz.  Miss  Bishop,  the  two  fair  Lloyds,  whom  you  may 
remember,  and  a  third  lately  introduced   into  Life,  I 
don't   mean    Existence,  who   is  as   handsome    as    the 
other  two  put  together.  ...   If  you  won't  divide  my 
affections  fairly  among  you,  you  must  fight  for  them, 
and  Mary  must  resort  to  her  Weapons.     Lo,  you,  I 
have  had  such  a  Conversation  with  the  Cat  about  the 
Mice  as  would  make  you  all  weep  for  Joy.     My  Eyes 
have  never  been  dry  since,     And  what  do  you  think 
she  says  ?     Why,  exactly  what  you  shall  hear  when 
we  meet ;  and  now,   I   know  you'll  wait  for  me  with 
impatience;  and  now  I've  got  you  into  a  Cleft  Stick. 
I  wrote  to  Lady  Thanet  on  Sunday  ;  but  she  is  much 
too  melancholy  to  answer  me.     Be  cautious    not  to 
mention  the  Contents  of  this  Letter,  except  to  persons 
of  whose  discretion  you  have  a  reasonable  Assurance. 
Not  a  word  to  Dundas. 

"  Keep  down  the  pulse  and  up  the  Spirits  of 
S[arah]  and  E[lizabeth].  Do  you  and  Catherine 
walk  incessantly." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

11 2<)tk  Feb.,  1004. 

"  You    may   thoroughly   depend    on    my   punctual 
obedience   to   your   commands,    and   in    the    manner, 


1804]  TTbe  francte  Letters  565 

on   my  utmost   Circumspection.       They   who   choose 
their   friends    and    Confidants   by    the    cut    of    their 
Beards,    or   by   the    Colour   of  their   Eyebrows  may 
have  occasion    ever  after   to   lament   that  their   con- 
duct  was    not    governed   by   the    Maxim  you    allude 
to.       To   apply    it   indiscriminately    would   be   unjust 
and  not  at  all  prudent.      Without   confidence   some- 
where, the  Action  of  Life  would  stand  still.     I   am 
writing  in  the  House  of  Commons  while  our  names 
are  calling  for  Committees  to  try  the  Middlesex  and 
Coventry     Petitions,    both    which    are    accomodated, 
and  Peter  Moore   will   keep   his    Seat.      This   bitter 
weather  is  very  adverse  to  my  own  dear  Elisabeth. 
She  is  not  worse  however,  and  the  Faculty  see  no 
reason   to   despair.     I    shall   give    Lord  Thanet   the 
best  and  earliest  Intelligence  I  can  get.     At  present 
I  see  no  sign  of  his  being  summoned  to  Parliament, 
but    I    think   there   is   a   serious    Probability   of    his 
being    employed    in    his    military    capacity.       I    am 
growing   a   Convert    at   last   to    Invasion,    on   much 
better    Evidence    than    the    Assertion   of  Ministers, 
though  they  are  as  Express  and  distinct  as  possible. 
Mr.  Yorke  in  a  circular  letter  dated  the    ist  of  this 
Month  says,  that  an  immediate  and  formidable  Attack, 
by  a  powerful  and  implacable  enemy  which  threatens 
the  Independence  and  Existence  of  the  Country,  is  to 
be  expected.     The  only  news  I    know   of  is   in  the 
enclosed    Paper   which    I  know  to  be  authentic,  and 
which  ever  way  I   look    I    see    nothing   but   serious 
causes  of  Despondence.     Yours,  but  who  can  tell  how 
long  I  may  belong  to  any  body,  or  care  for  anything. 

"  P.  F. 

VOL.    II.  15 


566  Ube  jfrancts  I/etters  [1804 

"  Tarleton  is  just  excused,  having  sworn  that  he  is 
liable  to  be  called  on  Military  Service  at  a  Moments 
Notice." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"  $th  Aptil,  1804. 

"  While  Burroughs  and  Sheridan  are  arguing 
about  Liskeard,  I  may  as  well  tell  you  that  various 
Whispers,  dull  Rumours,  and  deaf  surmises  are  afloat 
about  H.M.'s  health ;  and  that  some  people  entertain 
a  Suspicion  that  a  Regency  is  in  Contemplation.  If 
the  probable  ever  happened,  I  should  lean  to  that 
Opinion. 

"  I  came  hither  to  move  for  my  Marat ta  papers  ;  but 
Lo  !  and  behold,  Lord  Castlereagh  tells  me  that,  at 
this  hour,  they  have  not  received  a  single  Line  from 
Lord  Wellesley  on  the  Subject  of  the  War !  nor 
in  fact,  a  letter  of  any  sort  from  that  noble  Marquis 
since  I  moved  the  matter  last.  ..." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

"ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"April  19,  1804. 

"  MY  OWN  DEAR  LADY, 

"  I  am  the  slave  of  the  lamp;  and,  as  long 
as  you  continue  to  unite  uncommon  firmness  with 
your  invariable  sweetness  of  temper,  I  desire  nothing 
better  than  to  be  incessantly,  unremittingly,  and  in 
effect  constantly  employed  in  your  service,  which,  to 
say  the  best  of  it,  is  not  perfect  freedom.  Mr.  Pitt  is 
suddenly  touched  with  a  gouty  affection,  or  a  qualm 
of  conscience  ;  and  the  grand  conflict's  deferred  till 
Monday.  I  thought  the  Doctor's  countenance,  after 
the  last  division,  had  an  azure  cast.  Everything  else 


1804]  Ube  jfrancfs  Xetters  567 

looks  well  ;    and   I   hope  ere  long  to  dispose  of  his 
Lordship's  proxy  to  advantage. 

"  The  Bishop  of  London  is  actually  sitting  at  my 
left  hand,  talking  about  the  weather  and  the  Dutch 
fleet,  and  a  multitude  of  foreign  fowls,  from  Brook's 
menagerie,  who  are  sent  into  our  square  for  their 
health,  and  left  there  screaming  and  starving  all  day 
and  night,  and  the  bishop  assures  me  that  this 
violation  of  decorum  is  connived  at  by  the  Duke 
of  Norfolk,  who  pockets  sixpence  a  week  for  each 
of  these  cursed  bipeds,  who,  not  having  a  feather 
left,  look  very  like  Christians  in  adversity.  Poor 
dear  Elizabeth  suffers  sadly ;  but  hope  travels  on. 
A  loaf  on  Monday  or  Tuesday  si  cela  vous  fait 
plaisir. 

"  Mr.  Stinton  assures  me  that  he  brews  like  an 
angel ;  so  I  hope  to  taste  some  rational  small-beer 
at  Hothfield,  before  I  die  there. 

"  The  Bishop  of  London  and  I  are  to  have  a  meet- 
ing on  special  affairs  on  the  27th  instant,  to  which  the 
Duke  of  Norfolk  and  the  Earl  of  Rosselyn  are  invited, 
in  order  to  see  whether  any  means  can  be  devised 
to  prevent  the  future  beating  of  carpets  in  this 
Tetragon.  The  base  practice  is  patronised  by  George 
Byng,  who  says  he  does  not  choose  to  trust  his 
carpets  out  of  his  sight.  En  attendant,  we  have 
the  full  and  undivided  benefit  of  all  the  dust  in  all 
the  carpets  within  two  miles  of  us.  With  sitting  up 
to  vote  against  Addington,  I  have  got  the  lumbago, 
at  his  Lordship's  service.  In  future  I  must  vote 
horizontally  and  pointblank  if  I  can. 

"  Mr.  Stinton  has  taken  two  places  in  the  Ashford 


568  Ube  frauds  Xetters  [1804 

stage,  for  Sunday  morning  at  five  o'clock.  Call  you 
not  this  despatch?  How  are  you  to  distinguish  one 
from  the  other?  I  cannot.  The  safest  way  will  be 
to  send  for  Stinton  first,  and  lecture  him  copiously 
before  he  feeds.  An  empty  stomach  indicates  a 
recipient  mind." 


PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

"  April  26,  1804. 
"  CHERE  ET  TRES-HONOREE, 

"  I  will  execute  your  commands  as  expedi- 
tiously  and  punctually  as  I  can  ;  but  I  pray  you  to 
recollect  that  all  human  powers  are  limited,  which  is 
more  than  I  can  say  of  your  opinion  of  mine.  As 
to  finding  the  successor  of  a  grocer,  who  formerly 
lived  in  St.  Paul's  Churchyard,  and  served  Lord 
Thanet's  family  some  time  in  the  last  century,  you 
might  as  well  expect  me  to  tell  you  the  name  of 
Priam's  nurse  ;  or  which  way  the  wind  blew  twenty 
years  ago. 

"  Your  mind  is  so  dazzled  with  the  eclat  of  the  said 
Stinton's  accomplishments  that  you  have  totally  forgot 
the  merits  of  his  satellite,  and  what  impression  they 
have  made  on  his  Lordship.  .  .  .  On  this  subject  you 
may  easily  dilate,  without  neglecting  the  primary 
planet,  who,  I  suppose,  is  now  revolving  round  that 
centre  of  attraction,  Madame  Drummer,  or  watching 
the  transit  of  Penley. 

"  Not  a  word  of  the  parson  ! 

"  Not  a  word  of  my  letter,  which  I  desired  and 
desire  again  may  be  returned  to  me  by  next  post,  or  I 
write  no  more. 


1804]  ZTbe  jfrancte  letters  569 

"If  the  Doctor  does  not  now  perceive  that  his  own 
case  is  as  desperate  as  that  of  his  patients,  all  I  can 
say  is,  he  knows  nothing  of  topography. 

"As  to  my  arguing  with  his  lordship,  you  know  I 
might  as  well  sing  psalms  to  a  blind  horse.  .  .  .  Did 
I  not  leave  Fox  drinking  at  Brookes's  this  morning 
at  four,  and  Richard  Brindsley  into  the  bargain  ?  All 
day,  he  had  played  least  in  sight ;  not  so  when  the 
supper  came. 

" //  riy  a  que  vous,  madame,  qui  avez  toujours 
raison,  as  you  very  jiistly  observed.  This  day  I 
vainly  hoped  I  should  not  have  seen  that  infernal 
House  of  Commons,  but  I  reckoned  without  my  host, 
or  rather  without  Tom  Sheridan,  upon  whom  I  cannot 
bring  myself  to  visit  the  sins  of  his  sire ;  so  I  must 
go  and  sit  out  a  call  of  the  house,  though  you  know 
I  am  engaged  to  George  Johnstone,  who  gives,  or 
I  hope  will  give,  a  famous  dinner  to  Fox,  Bobby 
[Adair]  and  me,  this  very  day.  We  have  loaves 
enough  now,  dear  lady,  till  this  day  se'nnight. 

"  Everybody    in    the  world  said  last  night  that   a 

pension  of  ,£1,200  to   G.    T y  and  of  £"600   to 

his  lady  was  completed  in  due  form  yesterday.  I  do 
not  know  the  fact,  but  I  believe  it.  This  and  other 
things  have  the  air  of  winding  up  a  bottom.  As  to 
the  world  to  come,  all  I  know  is  that  '  It  cannot  use 
us  worse  than  this  has  done.'  I  at  least  do  not  fall 
within  that  class  of  fools,  though  I  may  into  some 
other,  of  whom  it  was  beautifully  said  by  the  finest 
writer  of  the  present  age  or  any  other  that  'their 
expectations  were  maintained  against  experience,  and 
their  confidence  nourished  by  disappointment.' 


S7o  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1804 

"  Pray  keep  all  my  letters  in  a  box,  or  a  drawer,  or 
a  bag."' 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"  loth  May,  1804. 

"All  I  can  tell  you  is  that  Pitt  has  kissed  hands 
this  Day,  and  that  the  principal  Arrangements  are 
made. 

"  Lord  Melville — Admiralty. 

"  Hawkesbury  and  Castlerea  to  continue. 

"  Mulgrave  Secretary  of  State. 

"  Canning  and  Granville  Levison  not  at  all  satisfied. 

"  Ireland  offered  to  Lord  Stafford,  who  I  have 
heard,  will  not  accept.  These  are  the  rumours.  I 
answer  for  nothing,  except  that  Pitt  sent  an  Express 
to  Lord  Moira  on  Monday  before  he  saw  the  King. 

"  Olivet's  is  the  best  Edition  of  Cicero ;  but  it 
is  dear,  in  9  Volumes.  I  shall  enquire  the  price  and 
let  you  know.  I  fear  I  am  in  disgrace,  for  my  Lady 
never  writes  to  me,  even  about  Drummer." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"17  May,  1804. 

"  Now  and  at  all  times,  you  shall  have  the  use  and 
benefit  of  my  Faculties,  while  I  have  any  left.  The 
Paris  Edition  of  Olivet's  Tully  would  cost  1 8  Guineas ; 
and  for  your  use  I  should  think  the  Geneva  Edition 
for  half  the  Money,  just  as  good.  The  Type  in  both 
is  excellent.  I  know  nothing  of  Botany  ;  but  I  shall 
consult  the  Learned,  and  do  my  best.  The  Turnip 
Drill  shall  not  be  neglected. 

"  The  Newspapers  tell  you  Lies  enough  without  my 


1804]  Ube  ffrancts  betters  571 

Interference  ;  and  the  little  Truth  I  know  is  not  worth 
telling.  With  the  greatest  of  all  human  Afflictions 
hanging  over  me,  I  have  no  heart  to  talk  about 
Things,  which  interest  everybody  but  myself — I  care 
not  one  Straw,  what  they  do.  I  wish  my  Lady  would 
tell  me  that  this  fine  Weather  has  given  her  health 
and  Spirits.  Has  she  received  the  Cargo  of  the  Hoy, 
and  is  all  right  ? 

"  They  say  that  Lord  Hardwicke  has  been  desired 
to  stay  in  Ireland.  I  do  not  believe  in  Dissolution. 
Non  omnis  moriar." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

"2U/  May,  1804. 

"  I  wish  I  could  contribute  to  raise  your  Spirits. 
Dejection  of  Mind  is  the  worst  of  all  the  Maladies  ; 
but,  unless  you  are  positively  sick,  I  see  no  reasonable 
Motive  you  have  to  be  melancholy.  After  all,  isn't 
it  better  to  be  dull  in  the  Country,  than  tormented  in 
town  ?  Are  you  tired  of  a  Calm,  and  will  nothing 
serve  you  but  a  hurricane  ?  Fi  done  belle  dame ! 
What  signifies  what  is  past  ?  The  present  is  without 
pain,  and  the  future  promises.  Let  me  only  live  to 
see  my  own  Elisabeth  out  of  danger,  and  I  will  carry 
such  an  Overflow  of  Spirits  to  Hothfield,  as  shall 
make  you  and  all  your  family  mad  for  Joy.  With  that 
exception  the  Events  of  this  life  are  indifferent  to  me. 
Until  I  read  the  word  in  your  own  handwriting  I 
thought  it  was  the  cultivation  of  Grapes,  to  which  his 
Lordship  was  going  to  devote  himself.  I  have  argued 
about  Grasses  and  Turnips,  and  botany  with  every- 
body who  knows  anything,  and  with  many  who  know 


572  Ubc  jfrancis  Xetters  [1804 

nothing  of  those  Sciences.  .  .  .  Fox  advises  him  to 
read  Rousseau  on  botany.  Grey  says  the  Drill  is  on 
its  way  from  Northumberland  ;  if  not,  Lord  Robert 
undertakes  to  get  one  made  here.  The  Duke  of 
Bedford  was  very  sententious  about  grasing,  but,  I 
suppose  it  is  for  want  of  Memory,  I  cannot  recollect 
what  he  said,  so  I  must  try  him  again — His  Lordship 
shall  have  the  Paris  Edition  of  Olivet's  Tully,  when  I 
can  get  it,  since  nothing  less  will  serve  his  turn ;  but 
it  is  very  scarce,  and  requires  waiting.  We  three 
are  to  be  great  Classics  in  the  Course  of  next  Winter  ; 
mark  that  ;  and  brush  up  your  Latin." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"  2yd  May,  1804. 

"  .  .  .  Many  people  say  that  Pitt  has  over  shot 
himself,  and  that  the  only  rational  step  he  has  yet 
taken  to  form  an  Administration  is  the  Appointment 
of  Doctor  Simmons  which  appeared  last  night  in  the 
Gazette.  The  form  in  which  Lord  Wellesley  receives 
thanks  is  admirable,  '  Sir,  we  admire  and  applaud 
everything  you  have  done  in  the  prosecution  of  the 
War,  but  whether  you  may  not  deserve  to  be  hanged 
for  making  the  said  War  is  a  question  on  which 
we  can  give  no  Opinion  until  we  have  read  your 
Voluminous  Despatches,  in  the  mean  time,  we  are 
your  most  devoted  Admirers  &c.' 

"On  this  day  the  question  will  be  whether  the 
Amendments  made  by  the  Lords  in  the  Volunteer 
bill  do  not  make  it  a  Money  bill,  but  on  Monday 
next  will  be  the  Trial  of  Forces,  on  Pitt's  Scheme 
about  the  Army  of  Reserve.  Linnaeus  is  silent  on 


1804]  Ube  jfrancte  Xcttets  573 

the  Subject  of  Grasses  for  fattening  Scotch  Cattle. 
Now  you  talk  Latin  I  begin  to  understand  you.  If 
the  gramina  pascua  are  above  ground  you  shall  have 
them  speedily." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"  2$th  May,  1804. 

"  Why!  I  sent  the  Bookseller's  receipt  for  ^13.  10. 
to  my  Lady  long  ago,  and  if  she  has  made  use  of  it 
to  light  the  Candles,  it  is  very  hard  that  my  exactness 
should  be  called  in  question.  Enclosed  I  send  you 
another  lame  account  of  Gramina  Pascua.  The  whole 
world,  as  well  as  Messrs.  Ridgeway,  is  in  search  of 
the  book,  as  Mr.  Yarrow  shall  be  in  pursuit  of  the 
Leith  pacquet  and  the  Feversham  Hoy.  Proh 
Jupiter !  When  will  my  troubles  end  ?  I  have  at 
last  got  the  Paris  edition  of  Tully,  for  which  Thomas 
Payne  charges  15  guineas,  and  if  you  don't  read  it  I 
will,  and  the  Parson  shall.  Pray  give  him  all  your 
old  Maps,  the  Very  sight  of  them  in  the  Library 
would  be  worse  to  me  than  an  Emetic.  I  hope  you 
have  not  forgotten  that  this  is  Fast  Day  and  that  you 
will  make  the  Parson  remember  it.  I  never  desired 
to  have  him  overfed,  much  less  crammed  to  Death. 
Is  there  any  other  Office  in  your  Household  which 
you  would  wish  me  to  fill  up?" 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"  29  May,  1804. 

"  You  may  expect  to  see  Messieurs  Anson  and 
Coke  early  next  week.  They  will  convey  to  you 
the  remainder  of  your  Library — Among  the  Tracts 


574  ftbe  ^Francis  Xetters  [1804 

mentioned  in  the  inclosed  paper  there  is  one  upon 
Grasses — Would  you  like  to  have  the  book  ?  price 
7  sh. 

"The  opinion  that  prevailed  yesterday,  was  that 
Addington  would  not  unite  with  Pitt. — Tierney  said 
to  Grey  with  an  Air  of  Triumph,  that  there  would 
probably  be  a  strong  Division,  viz. — against  Pitt's 
Defence  Bill.  Helas  !  I  care  not." 

On  June  i4th,  1804,  Philip  Francis  wrote  to 
his  friend  Lady  Thanet  apparently  in  answer  to  an 
invitation  to  Hothfield  : — 

"...  The  dearest  being  to  whom  my  heart  is 
devoted  is  not  in  a  state  that  would  permit  me  to 
leave  her,  much  less  to  enjoy  any  satisfaction  at  a 
distance  from  her.  Every  hour  that  I  am  able  to 
dispose  of  is  spent  in  Sloane  Street,  though  I  seldom 
see  her  [Elizabeth  was  at  the  house  of  her  sister 
Mrs.  G.  Johnson]  ;  but  it  helps  to  alleviate  the  toils 
and  griefs  of  two  of  the  best  beings  that  ever  existed 
[Catherine  Francis  and  Eliza  Johnson]  who  wait  on 
her  incessantly,  night  and  day.  My  house  was  once 
gay  and  happy  ...  it  is  not  so  now,  nor  will  ever  be 
if  my  daughter  dies." 

Another  time  he  writes : — 

"  The  affliction  that  has  hung  over  me  so  long  will 
soon  be  completed.  Hope  is  gone,  ...  I  attend  the 
House  of  Commons  and  take  part  in  many  things  in 
which  I  have  no  concern  merely  to  occupy  my  mind 
or  to  distract  my  thoughts  and  to  be  as  little  alone  as 
possible.  I  must  live  for  others  and  long  enough  (I 
desire  no  more)  to  see  you  happy  as  I  trust  and  wish 


1804]  ftbe  Brands  Xetters  575 

you  may  be.  Sooner  or  later  adversity  that  does  not 
exclude  hope  pays  the  sufferer.  Lord  Thanet  and 
you  have  many  years  of  happiness  to  come  but  we 
must  not  expect  more  of  human  life  than  it  was 
intended  to  furnish.  Farewell." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

11 yd  July \  1804. 

"  On  Saturday  I  received  a  melancholy  but  most 
kind  letter  from  you,  which  nothing  but  a  tender  and 
benevolent  heart  could  have  dictated.  Alas,  my 
dearest  friend,  my  Sorrow  will  never  end  but  with 
my  life.  The  period  of  yours,  I  trust  is  not  very 
distant.  But  Mr.  Mossop  called  here  yesterday,  and 
gave  me  an  Account  of  your  ill  health  of  which  I  had 
no  knowledge  or  Suspicion.  If  my  own  Mind  were 
ever  so  light,  I  should  feel  for  every  thing,  in  which 
Lord  Thanet's  Happiness  and  yours  was  concerned. 
But  now,  I  am  overwhelmed  with  Affliction,  and  every 
Addition  to  it  sinks  deep.  .  .  . 

"  As  soon  as  I  have  a  moment  of  time  or  quiet,  I 
shall  send  Lord  Thanet  an  Account  of  his  Money. 

"  .  .  .  I  hope  he  is  not  dissatisfied  with  the  Choice 
of  books,  or  the  Maps,  or  the  Expense.  All  I  can 
say  is,  that  I  would  have  done  the  same  for  myself, 
and  that  he  has  the  full  Value  of  his  money.  A  great 
part  of  his  Library  was  literally  worth  nothing.  The 
Talk  of  Invasion  is  a  good  deal  revived.  I  dined 
yesterday  in  Company  with  Sir  Sidney  Smith,  he  sat 
next  me,  and  I  pressed  him  as  much  as  I  could  on  the 
Subject,  he  says  that,  granting  them  a  calm  of  24 
hours,  we  have  no  naval  power  that  could  stop  them, 


576  zibe  jftancte  betters  [1804 

and  he  has  no  doubt  of  their  making  the  Attempt  ; — 
for  all  which  he  gave  very  good  reasons — Whenever 
the  dreaded  Event  takes  place  in  this  family,  all 
manner  of  cares  for  others,  will  fall  upon  me,  for 
myself,  care  is  at  an  end.  I  have  no  doubt  of  your 
goodness  to  me,  and  believe  me,  I  shall  want  it. 
Undoubtedly  I  shall  wish  to  be  at  Hothfield — But 
what  will  it  signify  where  I  go,  or  what  shall  become 
of  me  !  My  heartfelt  gratitude  is  all  that  I  have  to 
offer  you." 

Elizabeth  Francis  died  on  July  i4th,  1804,  to  her 
father's  intense  grief.  Elizabeth  was  the  most 
charming  and  the  most  gifted  of  the  Francis  sisters. 
She  was  always  a  distinguished  member  of  the 
Society  in  which  she  moved.  "  The  most  elegant  and 
intellectual  young  lady  in  London "  was  the  descrip- 
tion which  the  Prince  gave  of  her.  At  the  same  time 
she  was  greatly  attached  to  her  home  life  and  employed 
her  time  and  her  money  (,£1,000  left  her  by  Mrs. 
Chandler)  in  beautifying  their  country  place  at  East 
Sheen,  of  which  all  members  of  the  family  were  so 
fond.  Her  father  could  not  endure  this  house  after 
his  daughter's  death,  and  sold  it  very  soon. 


PERIOD   VL 
1804—1818. 

These  letters  are  largely  taken  up  with  accounts  of  visit  paid  by 
different  members  of  Sir  Philip  Francis's  family.  His  son  Philip,  after 
his  marriage  and  Philips  wife  (Eliza  Johnson)  correspond  with  the  father 
and  sisters,  often  about  current  political  events,  down  to  the  proceedings  of 
Wellington's  Army  in  the  Peninsula.  The  accession  to  power  of  "  All 
the  Talents"  occurs  during  this  Period  (1806)  and  Francis's  knighthood 
and  his  final  retirement  from  Parliament  (1807).  Francis's  first  wife 
dies  in  1806,  and  his  acquaintance  with  Miss  Emma  Watkins  is  followed 
by  their  marriage  in  1814.  An  episode  of  this  Period  is  the  elopement  of 
Emily  Johnson  with  Captain  Darvall.  After  the  deaths  of  Harriet  and 
Elizabeth  the  family  correspondence  was  kept  up  by  the  elder  and  younger 
Philip  Catherine  Francis,  Mary  Johnson  and  Eliza  Johnson.  The  eldest 
daughter,  Sarah,  had,  like  her  mother,  bad  health.  She  and  Mrs.  Francis, 
as  a  rule,  kept  house  together,  and  after  the  sale  of  the  country  home  at 
East  Sheen  were  always  in  London,  in  St.  James's  Square. 


577 


PtERIOD   VI. 

1804— -1818* 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  CATHERINE 

FRANCIS. 

"  RAMSGATE, 
"5  August,  1804 
11  MY    DEAR   LITTLE    SlSTER, 

"  .  .  .  Tell  my  father  that  from  all  I  can 
learn  they  have  no  more  immediate  expectation  of 
Invasion  here  than  they  had  6  months  ago. — As  to 
apprehension  of  their  coming,  there  is  none — The  fear 
is  that  they  won't  come. — To  talk  of  an  attempt  on 
this  coast  in  the  face  of  our  fleet  in  the  Downs  is 
perfectly  ridiculous — On  any  morning,  when  the 
weather  is  clear  you  may  count  from  an  hundred  to 
150  sail  of  Ships  of  War — As  to  the  Expedition  to 
Ireland,  we  have  always  been  given  to  understand, 
that  the  Blockade  of  Brest  was  pretty  sure  during 
the  summer  months. — but  it  is  obvious  policy  to  keep 
the  minds  of  the  people  employed  about  Invasion — 
and  so  I  explain  his  Majesty's  speech,  which  after  all 
acknowledges  that  the  attempt  has  been  postponed  by 
the  enemy  ;  to  enable  them  to  increase  their  means  of 
attack — Upon  the  same  pretence  it  may  be  adjourned, 
while  we  are  taught  to  expect  it  from  day  to  day. — 


579 


Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  [1804 

They  expect  Lord  Keith  down  today  or  tomorrow, 
and  from  him  I  shall  endeavour  to  learn  something 
of  the  truth  of  the  case." 


PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  ELIZA  JOHNSON. 

"  RAMSGATE, 
"31  August,  1804. 

"  DEAREST  OF  ALL  POSSIBLE  INFANTS, 

"  Half  an  hour  ago  I  was  supremely  angry 
with  you,  and  now  I  am  equally  pleased,  just  as  a 
Child  is  with  a  Rattle,  for  I  have  got  your  Letters 
of  the  28th,  which  I  think  might  have  arrived  yesterday 
with  common  diligence.  I  did  also  receive  Catherine's 
of  the  preceding  Thursday,  directed  as  I  desired  and 
which  she  put  into  the  post  with  her  own  fist.  Your 
next  must  be  directed  to  me  at 

Hothfield, 

Maidstone. 

in  plain  English,  and  no  Earl  of  Thanet,  nor  Kent. 
...  I  am  weary  of  telling  you  these  particulars, 
which  you  never  mind  ;  and  now  you  may  direct  to 
me  in  the  World,  if  you  will.  Dear  Mary  has  been 
very  fractious  ;  and  last  night  the  Cook  was  at  the 
point  of  death.  I  should  be  sorry  for  the  funeral, 
but  I  hear  the  Jade  is  recovering  very  fast,  for  my 
Sins.  She  has  ruined  our  Victuals,  particularly  on 
Monday  the  27th  when  we  gave  a  feast  to  Miss 
Elphinstone  and  Margaret,  and  Madame  Dubuisson  ; 
and  on  Wednesday  we  dined  at  Lord  Keith's,  this  is 
all  the  good  Company  we  have  kept,  except  our  own, 
since  I  arrived.  My  Lady's  concern  at  parting  with 
me  last  Sunday  morning  had  more  the  Appearance 


PHILIP   FRANCIS, 

SON    OF    SIR    PHILIP    FRANCIS. 


Page  579.] 


1804]  3be  jfrancis  Xetters  581 

of  rage    than    Sorrow.       I    shall   dine   with    her   on 
Monday,  and  stay  three  Weeks,  if  that  be  possible. 
Then  to  London  to  look  after  the  house  and  other 
matters,  and  on  the  first  of  October  to  Brighton.     I 
do   all     I    can    to   keep    myself   in    motion,    and    my 
mind  in  Action.     Well,  we  shall  meet  again,  I  trust, 
and  not  to  separate  any  more.  .  .  .  Why  should  we 
die   before    Death  ?       I    think    our   friend   Godschall 
might  have  made   himself  sure,  before   he  paid  the 
Prince  that  flattering  Compliment ;  but  I  suppose  all 
the   Discretion,  that   belongs   to   the   family,   centres 
eventually  in  Ralph.  ...   I  wish  you  could  persuade 
him   to   bring    Emily    in   his   gig,    or   out    of    it,    to 
Ramsgate.     Mary  would  eat  her  alive  for  Joy  !     How 
she  is  to  hold  out  till  January,  you  may  conceive,  but 
I  cannot.  .   .  .  Philip,  you  may  defy  Invasion  &  scorn 
those  who   talk    of  it.     Captain  Stuart  laughs  at  it. 
He  assured  me  only  yesterday  that,   to   his   certain 
knowledge,    the    French   were   as   well    prepared    at 
Boulogne  three  months  ago  as  they  are  now.     Mind 
what  Peter  Moore  says,  actually  at  Brighton.     '  Buona- 
parte is  not  a  fool.     We  are  really  invaded  by  his 
not  coming,  and  the   Effects   are   tenfold  more   mis- 
chievous.' .  .  . 

"  Peter  Moore  went  a  sailing  last  Week,  &  met  a 
Man  of  War,  who  gave  him  charge  of  a  very  large 
turtle  for  the  Prince  ;  and  when  he  landed  with  it,  the 
whole   town    received   him    with    Triumph,   believing 
what  he  told  them,  that  he  had  caught  it  with  a  rod 
and  Line,  and  the  oldest  fishermen  declined — I  mean 
declared,  that  they  never  knew  such  an  instance. 
"  Now  dearest   Elysium,  take  great  Care  of  your 
VOL.  n.  1 6 


582  Ube  jfrancis  betters  [1804 

own  self,  and  behave  to  me  in  future  as  well  as  you 
possibly  can. 

"  Worthy  Catherine,  you  mistake  the  matter. 
Amusement  is  your  Talent,  catexe  chene,  but  never 
mind  that.  Love  me  as  hard  as  you  can,  and  I  shall 
return  it  with  Interest.  Philip,  Mary  affirms  that  yours 
is  a  consumptive  habit.  So  beware  of  Inflammation. 

"P.  F. 

"  These  Children  are  really  incomparable  .  .  .  their 
writing  &  their  French  are  marvellous  [Mary's 
children]." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"  RAMSGATE, 
"3U/  August,  1804. 

"  Brief  let  me  be.  Peter  Moore,  whose  letter 
I  send  you,  but  not  to  be  destroyed,  has  no  Rival 
in  the  Prolix.  Considering  that  I  am  to  have  the 
honour  of  dining  with  my  Lady  on  Monday,  I  see 
no  reason  why  I  should  write  at  all.  The  Seamen 
here  laugh  at  Invasion.  Captain  Stuart,  a  Son  of 
Lord  Bute,  and  a  very  clever  young  fellow,  assured 
me  yesterday,  ist,  that  to  his  certain  knowledge  the 
french  were  just  as  well  prepared  at  Boulogne,  three 
months  ago,  as  they  are  now,  and  2nd  that  it  would 
take  them  a  week,  to  get  all  their  Vessels  out  of 
the  Harbour,  without  Opposition.  But  why  are  our 
Ships  so  foolish  as  to  go  close  to  their  Batteries  ? 
While  I  was  at  dinner  at  Lord  Keith's  last  Wednesday, 
a  young  Lieutenant  Dennis  came  in  to  report  the 
loss  of  his  Vessel  of  120  Tons,  by  a  Bomb  which 
fell  perpendicularly  into  her  Waist,  and  made  such  a 


1804]  zrbe  ffrancfs  OLetters  583 

breach  that  she  sunk  in  ten  Minutes,  but  nobody  was 
lost  or  hurt.  My  humble  duty  waits  on  My  Lady. 
God  knows  with  what  Regret  we  parted  last !  " 

The  following  letters  are  addressed  to  Mrs. 
Godschall  Johnson,  and  the  Mary  and  Kitty  alluded  to 
were  her  two  little  girls.  On  the  death  of  her  husband 
Mary  Johnson  had  been  left  as  she  considered  very 
inadequately  provided  for.  Accustomed  to  a  large 
establishment  and  every  luxury,  she  could  not  reconcile 
herself  to  the  small  house  in  Sloane  Street  to  which  she 
had  removed  with  her  two  children,  and  her  extravagant 
habits  were  a  continual  source  of  anxiety  to  the  family 
in  St.  James's  Square,  They  seem  to  have  combined 
in  vain  attempts,  by  advice  judicious  and  injudicious, 
the  loan  of  "  the  coach,"  and  presents  of  money,  to 
keep  her  contented  and  out  of  debt.  Her  relations  with 
her  father  were  peculiar.  There  seems  to  have  been 
a  sincere  affection  between  them,  but  they  were 
continually  quarrelling.  A  journal  which  she  kept 
in  Sloane  Street  is  little  more  than  a  record  of  her 
visits  to  her  father's  house  and  the  incessant  dis- 
agreements with  him  which  took  place  there,  inter- 
spersed with  resolutions,  repeated  over  and  over  again 
and  apparently  never  kept,  not  to  exceed  her  income, 
and  lamentations  at  the  loneliness  of  her  situation. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"  14  Sept.,  1804. 
"  MY    DEAR    LITTLE    MARY, 

"  Fine    weather    you   don't   want,    and   this 
place  furnishes  nothing  else  except  game,  for  which 


584  ftbe  Jfrancts  Xetters  [1804 

I  have  no  conveyance.  So  I  send  you  a  Letter 
I  have  just  received  from  poor  Sally  who  is  as 
melancholy  as  many  Cats,  and  not  without  reason. 
But  the  superintendence  of  the  house  is  at  least 
something  to  do,  or  to  think  of.  My  present  intention 
is  to  be  in  town  on  the  24th,  stay  a  Week  in  Sloane 
St.,  and  then  to  Brighton.  .  .  .  My  old  Colleague 
Barwell  is  gone,  and  his  poor  Soul,  I  suppose  is  now 
gnashing  its  Teeth.  My  kind  love  and  many  kisses  to 
my  future  playfellows  ;  for  I  intend  to  be  an  infant 
myself,  and  the  sooner  the  better. 

"  Yours  Vehemently, 

"P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"  itfk  October,  1804. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

"  Your  letter  of  the  i  ith  was  very  acceptable. 
In  all  my  gaiety  here,  as  you  call  it,  I  have  many 
melancholy  hours,  and  want  consolation  as  much  as 
anybody.  Kitty's  birthday  entitled  her  to  take  the 
Lead  and  to  make  the  principal  Figure  in  your  Letter  ; 
but  I  still  should  have  liked  a  few  words  about  Mary. 
...  Oh !  remember — Pray  let  them  both  be  brought 
up  to  be  in  love  with  me,  as  I  am  with  them. 

"  The  prince  and  his  royal  brothers  went  to  London 
on  Thursday  and  he  is  not  likely  to  return  before 
Tuesday.  I  have  a  very  good  apartment  in  one  of 
his  houses,  opposite  the  Pavillion,  and  now  in  his 
absence  am  at  liberty  to  dine  with  my  friends,  who 
are  very  kind  and  give  me  good  Dinners  as  you  may 
judge  by  the  inclosed.  The  Travellers  I  believe  are 


1804]  ZIbe  jprancte  Xetters  585 

very  well  satisfied  with  their  Expedition,  and  I  hope 
they  will  derive  benefit  from  it.     Well,  we  shall  meet 
again,  but  it  cannot  be  very  soon.     The  house  in  town 
will   not  be  habitable  in  less  than  two  months,  if  so 
soon.     So  how  we  are  all  to  be  disposed  of  in  the 
interval  is  more  than  I  can  explain  to  you  at  present. 
If  I  stay  here  another  fortnight,  I  think  that  will  be 
the   utmost.       I   am  sensible   that   your   residence  at 
Ramsgate   cannot  be  very  ch earful,   and    I    know  of 
no  Objection  to  your  removing  to   Brighton,    if  you 
like  it,   except  the   Expense  of  which  you  alone  are 
to  judge.     Many  families  as  I  hear  have  taken  houses 
for  the  Winter.     Mr.  and  Mrs.  Tierney  for  November 
and  December.      Mrs.    Davidson   &c.,  will  stay  that 
time  at  least.     I   talked  of  you    last    night    to    Mrs. 
F[itzherbert]   and     I    said    everything    you    desired. 
She  was  and  always  is  very   kind,    and    I    am    sure 
will    be    glad    to    see    you ;    as    will    Minny   to    see 
the    infants.       She    often    enquires    about   them.      I 
wish  they  would  write  her  a  Letter.      If  you  should 
resolve  to   come  hither,    think  well   of  it   first.      Be 
very   exact   about   time,  and    I    am    ready    to  do  all 
I    can   to   provide    you    with    a   house.      You   must 
prescribe  the  Situation,  the  rent,  and  settle  everything 
beforehand.     So  God  bless  you  and  yours,  who  are 
mine,  and  don't  regard  giving  me  Employment.     Sally 
is  stark   mad  with  the  house  and  the  workmen.     If 
you  want  Money  let  me  know. 

"  Yours  dutifully, 

"  P.  F." 

"  The  travellers  "  were  Catherine  Francis  and  Eliza 
Johnson,  then  on  their  way  to  Exeter.     It  was  thought 


586  ZTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  tl8°4 

good  for  Catherine,  who  had  been  rather  ailing,  to 
spend  some  weeks  in  a  warm  country  place,  and 
Eliza  Johnson  went  with  her. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"BRIGHTON, 

-My  OWN  DEAR  CATHERINE,          "'7M  October>  l8°4' 

"  Whatever  you  think  right  and  likely  to 
secure  your  health  will  have  my  free  and  entire  con- 
currence, which  of  course  includes  all  the  means  as 
far  as  depends  on  me.  Who  can  say  more  ?  Every- 
thing else  must  provide  for  itself.  I  am  just  returned 
from  hunting,  and  I  have  other  letters  to  write.  The 
Prince  went  away  on  Thursday  the  nth  and  is 
expected  this  afternoon.  In  the  meantime  I  fare  well, 
having  many  friends  to  feed  me.  Lord  and  Lady 
Berkeley  are  as  hospitable  and  good  as  possible. 

"  Mary  has  it  in  her  thoughts  to  remove  to  Brighton, 
and  as  I  know  that  Ramsgate  must  be  deplorably 
dull  to  her,  I  have  not  discouraged  her,  provided 
she  is  able  to  encounter  the  expense,  The  Bishop 
of  St.  Asaph  and  his  family,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Trevor, 
Mrs.  Davidson  &c.,  are  here  and  Mr.  Breton  is 
expected  with  his  family,  so  she  will  have  some  society 
which  she  wants,  and  will  be  well  received.  I  send 
you  Mary's  letter  for  want  of  a  better.  Let  me  know 
your  plan  as  soon  as  you  have  settled  it. 

"P.  F." 
THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  BRIGHTON, 

"  DEAR  CATHERINE,  «md  October,  1804. 

"  Lady  Collier  tells  me  that  as  you  cannot 
live    near  the   sea,    one    of  the  pleasantest  places   in 


1804]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  587 

Devonshire  is  Tiverton  where  it  seems  she  has  some 
creditable  acquaintances  to  whom  she  would  introduce 
you.  Exeter  perhaps  would  lead  you  into  more 
society  than  you  would  like,  and  a  mere  village  would 
be  too  solitary.  Mary  says  she  is  determined  to  part 
with  her  house  in  Sloane  Street,  to  sell  her  furniture 
by  auction  and  to  remove  to  this  place  in  the  course  of 
next  month.  So  no  more  at  present. 

"  P.  F." 

"  I  am  quite  satisfied  with  everything  you  may,  can, 
will,  should,  or  ought  to  do.  Poor  Sally  as  you  will 
see  by  the  inclosed  is  very  unhappy,  and  not  without 
reason.  One  of  her  Distresses  is  however  removed 
by  my  paying  her  ^50  on  your  account.  Nothing 
else  occurs. 

"  Yours,  P.  F." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

"Sx.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
11  loth  Nwr.i  1804. 

"  MY  OWN  DEAR  LADY, 

"  I  came  to  Town  yesterday,  very  un- 
expectedly to  myself  and  all  the  world,  with  H.R.H. 
and  Lord  Moira — &  at  present  I  see  nothing  in  this 
journey,  that  is  likely  to  do  me  any  good,  except  the 
change  of  Air.  Your  own  pretty  mouth  and  mine 
have  been  so  often  filled  with  Moonshine,  that  I  am 
determined  to  leave  nothing  open  for  the  future, 
except  my  Countenance.  Before  I  left  Brighton  I 
got  possession  of  your  invaluable  letter  of  the  yth  by 
which  I  perceive  that  all  my  endeavours  to  create  bad 
blood  and  to  excite  a  Civil  War  at  Hothfield  have 


588  Ube  ffrancfa  Xetters  [1804 

ended,  as  my  projects  usually  do  in  my  own  dis- 
appointment and  disgrace,  and  in  uniting  the 
belligerent  Powers  against  me.  Well,  be  it  so, 
Peace  on  any  terms  is  desirable,  provided  it  be 
sincere  &  leaves  no  lurking  hostility  in  your  generous 
Mind.  I  was  fool  enough  to  think  yesterday,  that 
something  was  on  foot,  or  float,  or  in  the  Wind.  But 
life's  a  jest  and  now  I  know  it.  In  short,  I  came  for 
Wool  and  shall  go  back  shorn,  the  meaning  of  all 
which  may  safely  be  trusted  to  your  own  natural 
sagacity.  My  House  here  is  nearly  finished,  and  I 
hope  it  will  be  habitable  by  the  beginning  of  next 
Month.  My  daughter  and  Miss  Johnson  intend  to 
pass  the  winter  in  Devonshire,  where  I  intend  to  pay 
them  a  visit  if  it  be  possible.  Mrs.  F.s  health  is  most 
deplorable,  and  my  eldest  daughter  who  has  the  care 
of  all  is  hardly  alive. 

"  Farewell,  and  do  not  repine  at  being  out  of  this 
dirty  town.  The  moment  I  know  anything  with 
Certainty  Lord  Thanet  shall  hear  of  it." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  CATHERINE 

FRANCIS. 

"ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"  Tuesday,  nth  Deer.,  1804. 
"  4  o'clock  at  Noon,  From  Salty s  Room, 
the  door  open  between ,    and  your 
mama  chuckling  at  having  her  only 
hope  so  near  her. 

"  MY  DEAR  CATY, 

"  I  take  the  present  opportunity  of  writing 
you  a  few  lines,  merely  because  of  the  pleasure  I  know 
you  will  receive  from  this  place  of  date — not  that  I 


1804]  ttbe  jfrancfs  Xetters  589 

have  anything  to  add  to  my  copious  letter  of  yester- 
day, which  would  justify  me  in  writing  again  so  soon. 
My  father  set  off  for   Hd.   this  morning — and  I   am 
come    to   dine   with   your    Mama   and   Sally  at  their 
own   hour   and    in   your    Mama's    room — Judge    if  I 
am    welcome — I    have    just   been    sitting   with    Mrs. 
Fini   [Philip's    name   for   his   mother],    her    hand    in 
mine  while   I   gave  her  a   very  particular  account  of 
your  establishment  at  Exeter  the  market  and  prices  of 
provisions  &c.,  &c., — and  I  leave  her  only  to  tell  you 
that  she  is  quite  satisfied  with  my  little  attentions,  and 
very  chearful  and  good  humoured.     I  spoke  perhaps  a 
little  too  favourably  of  her   yesterday  ;    for   upon   a 
closer  inspection  of  her  by  daylight  I  must  confess  she 
looks  thin,  and  the  arms  which  we  have  always  coaxed 
so  much  are  neither  so  plump,  nor  so  smooth  as  they 
used  to  be — Both  these  circumstances  relate   to  the 
exterior  only  &  not  to  the  substance — In  the  essentials 
she  is  as  well  as  I  could  have  hoped  to  find  her,  par- 
ticularly in  the  head — by  which  you  are  not  to  under- 
stand that  she  has  more  of  intellect  generally  speaking, 
but  that  what  there  is,  is  not  clogged  and  oppressed 
with  that  weight  of  heaviness  she  appeared  to  labour 
under  in  the  summer. — Perhaps  she  is  better  in  this 
respect   for   looking   less    well  externally,   that  is  for 
having  less  flesh  and  blood — I   think  Sally  much  the 
least  well  of  the  two,  and  whether  it  be  from  illness  or 
melancholy  or  fatigue  or  from  all  together  she  seems 
to   have    suffered   severely.  .  .  .  She  has  got  a  bad 
cold  too — as  who  has  not  ? — My  father  has  taken  one 
to  Hd. — my  mother  has  got  one  ;  and  my  fatigue  and 
fever  have  ended  in  another   which  promises  to   be 


59°  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  [1804 

pretty  severe.  But  you  see  it  doesn't  prevent  my 
trying  all  my  little  arts  to  please  you.  .  .  .  Now  you 
are  not  for  to  go  for  to  suppose,  as  the  maids  say,  that  I 
shall  always  write  to  you  at  this  agreeable  rate.  No, 
no,  my  good  little  Sissy,  I  recommend  you  to  count 
more  upon  some  little  efforts  of  your  own  for  your 
amusement,  which  will  be  of  more  service  to  you,  I 
mean  your  resources  in  Geography,  drawing  and 
whatever  other  branch  of  the  fine  arts  you  may  deem 
worthy  your  attention — Then  if  I  hear  you  behave 
well,  and  I  may  hear  of  you  when  you  least  think  it,  I 
may  send  you  a  few  lines  now  and  then  to  encourage 
you.  .  .  . 

"  From  your  severe  Tyrant  and  brother, 

"  PHILIP." 


ELIZA  JOHNSON  TO  SARAH  FRANCIS. 

"  EXETER, 
"Dec.  31,  1804. 

"  .  .  .  We  are  going  to  dine  with  Miss  Archdale 
who  has  been  so  very  obliging  to  us  and  pressed  it  so 
much  we  cannot  refuse — I  hope  to  meet  Mrs.  Graves 
a  Lady  of  most  singular  Conduct  and  appearance — 
neither  herself  or  her  children  have  ever  had  their 
hair  cut  and  these  sweeping  Tails  are  exhibited  to 
every  body  who  visits  them  between  the  hours  of 
2  and  4,  her  own  lays  on  the  ground  and  in  colour 
and  quality  very  much  resembles  the  tail  of  a  black 
carthorse.  Admiral  Graves  is  an  unfortunate  quiet 
man  who  indulges  his  wife  in  all  whims,  one  of  which 
is  the  having  christened  her  youngest  daughter  Septima, 
Sexta  being  her  yth  child  and  her  6th  daughter  which 


1804]  ttbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  591 

has  hit  my  fancy  so  particularly  that  I  can  hardly 
speak  seriously  to  any  of  the  family — It  may  give  you 
some  conception  of  the  rest  of  their  proceedings  which 
are  equally  eccentric.  None  of  the  Children  are 
allowed  to  be  contradicted  and  when  3  or  4  of  them 
cry  at  once  for  the  same  thing  and  run  tearing  and 
screaming  about  the  Room  together  with  their  long 
Tails  the  effect  on  Strangers  is  rather  surprising. 
I  look  forward  to  cultivating  their  acquaintance  with 
great  satisfaction.  .  .  . 

"  Your  affecte- 

"  E.  JOHNSON." 

We  give  a  few  extracts  from  Mary  Johnson's 
Diary  : — 

DIARY  OF  MRS.  GODSCHALL  JOHNSON. 

"  Thursday,  Dec.  \$th,  1804.  Rules  of  Economy 
to  which  I  this  day  make  a  firm  Resolution  of  adhering 
strictly. 

"  Never  to  buy  anything  of  any  sort  for  Dress 
Ornament  or  Utility  that  I  do  not  absolutely  want, 
or  can  possibly  do  without  either  for  myself  or  the 
Children  or  the  House. 

"  To  reduce  the  expense  of  the  Weekly  House 
Bills  as  much  as  it  is  possible  and  the  Washing  Bills 
— particularly  for  myself  and  the  Children. 

"  One  of  the  best  rules  of  Economy,  and  a  certain 
means  of  knowing  the  amount  of  one's  expenses,  is 
never  to  have  a  Bill  at  any  shop,  but  for  those  things 
where  it  cannot  be  avoided  and  always  to  pay  them  as 
soon  as  possible — I  must  therefore,  never  allow  Bills 
for  myself  or  the  Children. 


592  tTbc  Francis  betters  [1804 

11  MAXIMS. 

"  A  well  practised  Economy  produces  Ease,  comfort 
&  independance,  without  which  there  is  no  satisfaction 
or  happiness  in  Life. 

"  '  Never  put  yourself  in  the  way  of  being  slighted,' 
My  Father  said  this. 

"SLOANE  STREET. 

''Saturday  night,  Dec.  29^,  1804.  One  excellent 
resolution  I  must  make  and  determine  firmly  to  keep 
before  I  finally  quit  this  quiet  retired  little  Mansion 
and  before  I  adopt  the  new  plan  of  life,  I  intend — 
which  is,  always  to  pass  eight  or  nine  months  in  the 
year,  by  the  Seaside  and  the  other  three  or  four  if  I 
can  afford  it  in  the  Spring  of  the  year  in  London. 
This  might  be  possible,  but  only  by  resolving  on  a 
constant  plan  of  Economy  with  respect  to  all  expenses. 
If  I  am  not  able  to  support  the  expense  of  taking  a 
small  ready- furnished  House  in  Town  for  3  or  4 
months  I  will  take  a  good  and  comfortable  one  at 
Brighton  which  shall  be  my  place  of  residence,  and 
I  will  determine  to  remain  there  constantly,  as  the 
Sea  air  and  Bathing  are  particularly  beneficial  and 
recommended  for  my  dear  Childrens'  Health ;  it  is 
a  good  chearful  Town,  even  in  Winter  where  I  can 
have  good  Masters  for  the  Children  and  always  a 
little  Society  for  myself.  From  Elisa's  frequent  long 
Absences  I  lead  a  solitary  life  and  must  consequently 
pass  many  melancholy  hours,  in  sad  painful  reflection 
on  the  past — this  is  one  of  my  principal  reasons  for 
quitting  Sloane  St.  (which  excepting  its  being  too  far 
distant  from  London,  has  many  pleasant  advantages — 


1804]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  593 

but  Life  is  too  short  and  fleeting  to  be  passed  in 
eternal  Solitude]  saying  all  this  I  have  digressed  from 
mentioning  my  resolution  in  case  I  am  so  fortunate  as 
to  part  with  my  house  and  furniture  without  much  loss 
soon  and  shall  then  remove  to  a  ready-furnished  House 
in  Town,  near  St.  James's  Square  and,  to  come  to 
the  point — My  regular  plan  and  pursuit  for  the  day, 
shall  not  be  altered  (but  as  little  as  can  be  avoided)  by 
my  living  in  London.  I  shall  devote  the  usual  hours 
to  my  darlings'  improvement  and  education,  which 
will  ever  be  my  first  object  and  most  interesting 
occupation — the  resources  of  Books,  Music,  Writing, 
Work  &c.,  will  come  in  constant  succession  and  with 
the  daily  necessary  care  and  management  of  domestic 
concerns,  visiting  occasionally  and  entering  into  a 
little  cheerful  Society  will  completely  and  not  irrationally 
employ  every  hour  of  the  day. 

"  The  comfort  and  satisfaction  of  this  plan  is  certain — 
if  I  can,  by  a  perseverance  in  Economy,  live  free  from 
pecuniary  distress  and  embarrassment  which  has  sadly 
embittered  my  feelings  for  some  months  past — however 
I  have  learnt  a  useful  Lesson  and  hope  to  profit  by  it, 
for  I  have  discovered  that  I  must  depend  on  myself,  and 
only  on  myself,  though  this  is  often  a  very  melancholy 
reflection  and  conveys  the  idea  of  being  desolate  and 
deserted,  yet  I  must  in  Gratitude  thank  God,  that  I 
do  not  depend  entirely  on  one  of  so  extraordinary  and 
uncomprehensible  a  character — which  would  destroy 
all  possibility  of  happiness  and  break  my  heart. 

"  Sunday,  Dec.  30^,  1804.  I  dined  in  St.  James's 
Square  (and  took  the  Children)  it  was  the  first  time 
I  had  seen  my  Father  since  our  violent  disagreement, 


594  TTbe  jfrancfs  Xetters  [1804 

or  I  should  rather  say,  since  the  Violent  Scene  on  the 
Subject  of  the  Coach.  However  I  punctually  settled 
my  account  with  him  at  the  time  I  promised  (on 
Thursday  the  27th),  he  received  me  and  the  Children 
with  particular  kindness,  and  seemed  to  wish  to  forget 
all  that  had  passed  which  was  so  painful  and  wounding 
to  me.  He  really  was  very  good  to  me,  and  remark- 
ably kind  to  the  children,  indeed  he  took  more  notice 
of  them  than  I  almost  ever  saw  him,  so  that  I  twice 
kissed  him  and  we  parted  on  the  best  terms,  which  I 
trust  will  continue,  for  I  am  determined  to  avoid  giving 
him  any  possible  Cause  of  Offence  or  dissatisfaction, 
and  therefore  must  not  put  myself  in  his  Way,  and 
will  never  go  unnecessarily  to  the  Square. — However 
his  behaviour  to  day  has  been  so  kind  that  I  feel  it  a 
consolation  to  have  been  there. 

"  Monday -,  Dec.  31^,  1804.  Philip  dined  with  me; 
he  wrote  from  Hothfield  a  very  kind  letter,  on  the 
subject  of  the  disagreement  between  us  when  he  last 
was  here.  We  are  all  reconciled  and  good  friends, 
which  I  trust  we  shall  continue,  for  I  will  never  again 
consult  him  on  a  pecuniary  subject.  I  must  always 
think  and  act  for  myself,  without  advice,  much  less 
expecting  assistance  from  any.  Philip's  situation  I  am 
aware  is  a  very  hard  one  and  therefore  naturally  causes 
and  justifies  some  feelings  of  hardness  and  indifference 
to  the  difficulties  of  others  who  he  considers  in  affluent 
circumstances  (that  is  might  with  my  Income  be  so  if 
not  imprudently  extravagant)  and  for  the  imprudence 
which  has  brought  on  me  these  difficulties  he  thinks 
I  deserve  to  suffer.  This  is  both  his  and  my  Father's 
severe  way  of  judging,  without  feeling  for  me,  without 


1805]  TTbe  jfrancte  Xetters  595 

consideration  or  comparison  of  my  present  confined, 
and  former  Affluent  situation,  which  might  justify  in 
great  measure  in  reflecting  and  tender  minds  my 
having  always  (for  the  last  four  years)  exceeded  my 
Income.  But  that  folly  is  over,  and  I  must  now  learn 
and  practise  prudence  and  economy  from  sad  experi- 
ence and  necessity,  from  the  time  I  part  with  this 
house  (which  I  think  will  be  soon)  I  shall  strictly  live 
within  my  Income  of  ,£1,000  a  year  and  if  possible  lay 
by  something. 

"  If  I  take  a  House  in  Town  for  a  few  months  it 
must  be  in  an  airy  situation,  close  to  St.  James's  or 
Hyde  Park,  for  the  benefit  of  the  Children  as  well  as 
myself.  I  wish  I  may  be  so  lucky  as  to  find  one  in 
Cleveland  Place  looking  to  the  Green  Park,  though 
I  fear  the  rent  will  be  too  high.  If  I  do  not  get  one 
at  a  reasonable  rent  I  will  certainly  go  immediately 
from  hence  to  Brighton  where  I  shall  take  a  House 
for  many  months. 

"  Monday,  Jan.  i^th,  1805.  This  day  my  Father 
had  at  Dinner  a  party  consisting  of  Fox,  Lord  Moira, 
Sheridan,  Windham,  Mr.  Adair,  and  Mr.  Calcraft, 
Philip. 

"  This  day  Mr.  Warren  in  the  kindest  manner  got 
a  hundred  pounds  advanced  me  from  the  Bankers 
Prescott  &  Grote.  (who  in  the  most  gentlemanlike 
manner  would  not  take  the  discount  saying  it  was 
so  trifling  it  was  not  worth  while).  .  .  .  This  season- 
able assistance  has  been  a  great  relief  and  very 
fortunate  for  me  at  this  time,  but  I  must  and  have 
resolved  never  again  by  any  thoughtless  foolish  ex- 
travagance to  put  myself  in  a  situation  of  wanting 


596  ftbe  jfrancis  Xettets  [1805 

Money  advanced,  before  my  quarterly  allowance 
becomes  due  ;  I  hope  and  believe,  I  have,  since  I 
returned  to  Town  from  Ramsgate  suffered  too 
much  and  too  painfully  for  my  unjustifiable  impru- 
dence and  extravagance  in  plunging  myself  into  such 
difficulties  and  embarrassment  ever  to  forget  what 
I  have  felt  and  suffered,  or  the  good  and  prudent 
resolutions  I  have  made  in  consequence  of  those 
most  distressing  and  mortifying  feelings  and  the 
perfect  conviction  they  have  given  me  of  the  absolute 
necessity  of  persevering  in  a  plan  of  constant  prudence 
and  economy  in  all  things,  for  I  have  so  much  pride 
and  spirit  that  it  would  I  believe  drive  me  distracted 
to  be  in  a  state  of  real  embarrassment  and  distress 
for  Money,  I  have  (I  trust  to  my  future  advantage) 
discovered  how  very  few  generous,  feeling,  and  tender 
hearts  there  are.  I  have  been  treated  with  harshness, 
which  at  the  time  I  felt  deeply,  but  it  has  done  me 
good,  and  I  am  now  even  grateful  for  the  severity 
which  I  thought  cruel  to  me  in  my  present  sad  and 
solitary  condition.  I  will  derive  good  from  evil." 

While  Catherine  Francis  and  Eliza  Johnson  were 
in  Devonshire,  the  younger  Philip  wrote  them 
numerous  letters.  Philip  was  at  this  time  engaged 
to  Eliza,  whom  he  calls  Pye.  They  were  married 
on  May  ist  of  this  year. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  CATHERINE 
FRANCIS. 

"TEMPLE, 

-MY  DEAR  CATY,  "17^/^,1805. 

"  .  .  .  In  truth  I  am  worn  and  harassed  to 
death   with   business   of  all    sorts — particularly    with 


ELIZA  JOHNSON, 

f\ 

WIFE    OF    PHILIP    FRANCIS. 


To  face  page  596.] 


1805]  ZTfoe  jfvancts  Xetters  597 

writing,  which  I  do  all  day  long  to  some  person  or 
other.  .  .  .  My  father  alone  occupies  a  third  of  my  life, 
either  with  his  business,  or  his  claims  upon  my  society. 
Mind,  I  am  only  stating  the  fact,  not  complaining  of  it 
except  on  account  of  its  effects  upon  my  irritable  nerves. 

"  Your  unkind  brother, 

"  PHILIP." 
THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"TEMPLE, 

"  MY  DEAR  CATY,  "  Saturda^  **/«"*.  l8°5- 

"  I  have  received  both  your  kind  little 
letters.  .  .  .  The  Dining  parlour  [in  St.  James's 
Square]  looks  very  neat  and  elegant  with  the  new 
curtains.  We  dined  in  it  on  Sunday  with  Sabloukoffs,1 
who  I  believe  were  much  gratified  with  their  reception, 
Company  Messrs.  May,  &  J.  Warren. — I  wished  my 
father  to  add  Elliott,  or  Bob  Adair,  but  he  would 
not,  and  substituted  John  Godfrey  who  did  not 
come,  and  would  have  been  no  use  if  he  had,  in 
my  sense. — A  word  while  I  think  of  it. — My  father, 
with  all  his  vapouring  about  seeing  company  when 
his  rooms  are  finished,  I  am  satisfied  is  more  than 
ever  attached  to  the  hugger  mugger  principle  of  a 
few  of  his  own  friends  and  society  sans  g§ne>  a  most 
beautiful  one  for  your  and  all  our  comforts  and 
satisfaction.  My  advice  is  to  resist  it  en  premier 
lieu — take  the  house  into  your  hands  in  a  high  stile, 
and  ask  good  company  which  shall  make  him  behave 
well — to  us — on  any  other  terms  you  will  see  little 
of  me.  ...  I  have  a  most  cordial  aversion  to  both 
medicine  and  physicians.  In  us  two  for  instance  they 
1  General  Sabloukoff  married  Julia  Angerstein. 

VOL.    II.  17 


598  ftbe  jfrancts  %etters  [1805 

would  never  discover  that  we  were  two  of  the  most 
irritable  people  in  our  systems  in  the  world. — nor 
think  of  imputing  as  they  ought  at  least  half  our 
ailments  to  that  single  cause.  God  keep  me  out  of 
their  hands!  Could  poor  Lady  P[almerston]  have 
done  worse  if  she  had  kept  up  her  strength  and 
neglected  her  disorder  ?  In  June  only  she  is  declared 
ill — In  January  she  is  no  more. — The  Poores  are 
come  to  town,  I  am  sorry  to  say  for  advice  for  her. 
...  I  saw  her  this  morning  and  though  she  is  thin 
I  don't  think  her  in  a  serious  state.  What  they  may 
bring  her  to  God  knows.  .  .  . 

"  My  father  has  put  up  a  Cartload  of  his  pictures  in 
that  elegant  Dining  room — you  will  guess  how  far  it 
is  improved  by  these  ornaments.  For  God's  sake  no 
mention  of  it  I  pray. — The  thing  is  without  remedy — 
and  observations  that  apply  to  a  matter  of  vanity, 
founded  upon  total  ignorance  and  want  of  taste  cut 
too  deep  to  be  risqued. 

"  Your  own  unkind  Brother, 

"  PHILIP." 

"  TEMPLE, 
"  Monday,  Feb.  tfht  1805. 

"  MY  DEAR  CATY, 

14  I  am  glad  to  hear  that  you  are  pleased 
with  your  unkind  brother.  En  revanche,  if  it  be  a 
satisfaction  to  you  to  know  it,  he  is  equally  so  with 
you.  Having  got  a  frank,  I  take  the  opportunity 
of  writing  you,  (don't  laugh)  a  few  lines  though  I 
have  not  much  to  say.  But  I  must  thank  you  for 
the  care  you  have  taken  of  my  own  dear  Pye.  I  beg 


1805]  Ube  jfrancte  betters  599 

you  will  continue  it,  and  not  let  her  write  even  to  me 
till  her  eyes  are  quite  well.  She  has  been  too  good 
to  me  already ;  and  will  make  me  love  her  so  much 
that  I  shall  be  unhappy — and  between  you  and  I,  it 
is  all  I  can  do  to  bear  this  detested  interval  of  200 
miles  between  us.  Next  to  her  goodness  however, 
in  writing  to  me,  it  has  been  a  principal  consolation 
to  me,  that  during  the  last  fortnight  you  have  both 
been  fostered  in  a  mild  climate,  instead  of  being 
exposed  to  weather  which  for  bitterness  and  detes- 
tability  I  scarcely  remember  in  London.  .  .  .  We  had 
a  party  at  the  Square  yesterday.  Ld.  Hutchinson, 
P.  Moore,  J.  Godfrey,  Macmahons,  Mary  &  Babies. 
Poor  Mama  dined  upstairs  a  L?  ordinaire — I  am  sure 
I  don't  know  why,  for  she  is  very  well,  but  on  account 
of  the  fear  of  cold-taking,  which  Sally  has  inculcated 
into  her.  When  you  come  to  town  I  hope  you  will 
take  her  in  hand  a  little  yourself.  She  is  very  good, 
kind,  and  satisfied  under  an  existence  the  most 
uninteresting  that  can  be  imagined.  .  .  . 

"...  The  Pictures  have  ruined  what  would  have 
been  a  perfectly  elegant  dining-room.  There  is, 
independent  of  the  boys  on  the  left,  to  which  alone 
well  framed  there  would  have  been  no  great  objection, 
a  string  of  such  as  Oliver  Cromwell  Madme.  Mazarin 
&c.,  hung  up  almost  close  to  the  ceiling  on  the  right. 
Not  a  word  on  this  subject  I  beseech  you.  Could  not 
be  forgiven.  The  curtains  are  very  handsome.  For 
the  present  he  does  not  think  of  furnishing  the 
drawing-room. 

"Yr.  unkind  BRUZZAR." 


6oo  tTbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  [1805 

MARY  JOHNSON'S  DIARY  CONTINUED. 

"Monday,  Jan.  28^,  1805.  I  this  day  made  Miss 
B[ertholletJ  [Governess]  a  present  of  a  set  of  Blair's 
Sermons,  which  cost  me  two  Guineas  and  God  knows 
how  very  inconvenient  for  me  to  part  with  at  this  time 
of  my  poverty  and  embarrassment,  but  I  felt  it  rather 
a  debt  of  honour,  having  when  we  were  at  Ramsgate 
and  good  friends  (that  is  I  felt  great  goodwill,  and  had 
a  high  opinion  of  her)  promised  her  a  present  of  a 
different  kind  which  would  have  been  much  more 
expensive  but  from  her  monstrous  ill-behaviour  and 
extreme  ingratitude  to  me  in  Blenheim  St.,  she  had 
entirely  forfeited  all  claim  to  any  such  kindness  from 
me,  still,  as  she  afterwards  made  by  her  letter,  an 
explanation  and  a  sort  of  apology  for  herself  I  passed 
it  over,  for  the  sake  principally  of  the  Children's 
Improvement,  as  I  wished  Miss  B.  should  continue 
to  instruct  them  in  French  and  Writing,  knowing  how 
capable  she  is,  and  having  great  reason  to  be  satisfied 
,with  the  progress  they  have  made.  Miss  B.  has  on 
the  whole  behaved  well  enough  since  I  returned  to 
this  House,  and  she  has  been  three  times  a  week  to 
give  the  children  Lessons.  I  have  therefore  in  giving 
her  these  Books  acquitted  myself  of  a  sort  of  feeling 
by  which  I  considered  myself  bound  to  make  her  a 
present  of  some  kind  after  what  had  passed  on  the 
subject  at  Ramsgate,  but  nothing  could  prevail  on  me 
on  any  occasion  whatever,  to  take  her  again  into  my 
family  (not  that  I  believe  she  would  for  any  temptation 
wish  to  return  into  my  family)  after  the  violent  and 
extraordinary  scene  that  passed  in  Blenheim  St. 


1805]  ttbe  jfrancts  Xetters  60 1 

"  All  I  shall  further  add  is  that  I  am  resolved  to 
make  no  more  promises  of  kindness  or  Liberality. 
1  Make  no  promises  '  is  a  most  useful  and  prudent 
Maxim,  and  one  that  should  never  be  forgot,  par- 
ticularly by  spirited  liberal  minded  people,  who  should 
always  consider  promises  as  sacred  and  therefore  how 
dangerous  it  is  to  make  them,  because  it  continually 
occurs,  that  it  is  very  difficult,  nay  sometimes  im- 
possible to  perform  them,  which  causes  feelings  of 
great  and  painful  mortification.  I  have  myself  on 
one  occasion  had  a  very  vexatious  experience  of  this 
truth,  and  am  determined,  in  future  of  being  very 
careful  '  Never  to  make  promises.' 

"  One  of  the  best  rules  of  excellent  prudent  Economy 
is  never  to  allow  Bills  to  run  on  at  any  Shop,  (except 
those  which  are  positively  not  to  be  avoided). 

"  Wednesday,  Feb.  \^th.  ...  I  walked  home  and 
found  Philip  who  was  come  to  dine  with  me.  ...  He 
has  at  last  disclosed  to  me  a  secret  I  have  long  sus- 
pected, in  which  the  most  important  Event  of  his  Life 
is  concerned,  no  less  than  his  serious  attachment  and 
engagement  to  Eliza.  I  was  not  surprised,  having 
long  had  reason  to  think  that  he  highly  valued 
admired  and  preferred  her.  I  can  only  wish  for 
that  which  will  be  most  likely  to  secure  his  happiness, 
though  I  once  certainly  thought  that  he  would  be 
ambitious  of  making  a  Marriage  of  more  dclat,  but 
.  .  .  The  cruel  afflicting  losses  we  have  sustained 
in  our  family,  and  the  sad  and  dreadful  scenes  it 
has  been  his  misfortune  twice  to  witness  have  deeply 
impressed  his  feelings,  and  moderated  all  his  desires. 
In  marrying  Eliza  he  will  unite  himself  to  a  most 


602  Ube  f  rancid  Xetters  [1805 

excellent,  amiable  and  estimable  Woman,  who  we  all 
have  the  strongest  reasons  to  value  for  the  uncommon 
goodness  and  tenderness  of  her  Heart,  which  we  can 
never  forget  during  the  anxious  and  most  melancholy 
attendance  on  poor  E.  .  .  .  This  brings  naturally  a 
reflection  to  mind  of  the  loss  I  shall  have,  by  this 
event,  of  Eliza  as  a  member  of  my  little  family,  and 
likewise  of  the  comfort  and  cheerfulness  of  her 
society,  but  still  I  have  determined  for  many  reasons 
not  to  do,  what  many  people  may  suppose  I  naturally 
should,  of  proposing  (in  the  very  probable  event  of 
Mrs.  Fullerton's  death)  to  take  Emily  to  live  with  me, 
but  this  I  shall  not  do,  though  in  every  other  respect 
I  would  shew  her  all  the  kindness  in  my  power,  from 
the  affection  and  esteem  I  really  have  for  her,  but  her 
Aunt  Mrs.  Hodges  is  the  proper,  natural  person  to 
make  her  this  offer. 

"  SLOANE  STREET. 

"Friday,  Feb.  \$th,  1805.  Resolutions  concerning 
Diet,  on  which  Health  so  principally  depends. 

"  To  continue  to  live  in  the  same  way  I  have  done, 
that  is  never  tasting  strong  things,  or  Rich  made 
Dishes  and  very  little  Pastry.  As  to  Wine  seldom  or 
never  to  allow  myself  to  taste  any  but  Port  Wine  and 
very  few  glasses  of  that,  never  more  on  the  whole 
than  three  in  a  day.  Whenever  I  taste  Madeira  I 
find  it  extremely  heating,  makes  me  very  uncomfort- 
able, and  certainly  disagrees  with  me,  so  that  I 
determine  against  that.  Port  Wine  is  the  only  Wine 
for  Women,  and  but  little  of  that. 

"  Tuesday,  Feb.  i^th.  Having  heard  this  day  of 
the  probability  of  my  making  above  a  hundred  pounds 


i8os]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  603 

by  my  little  share  of  the  Loan,  at  this  Moment  it 
is  such  good  fortune  for  me  that  I  ought  to  be  thank- 
ful and  satisfied,  though  if  my  Father  had  had  the 
goodness  of  offering  to  make  a  second  payment  for  me 
I  might  have  been  still  more  fortunate.  However  I 
must  not  repine,  but  be  grateful  that  I  could  even  gain 
that  sum,  and  resolve  not  weakly  to  be  tempted  into 
any  foolish  Expense  but  pay  my  Debts,  &  on  no 
account  incur  fresh  ones. 

"  Tuesday,  Feb.  26tk.  .  .  .  Philip  came  to  dinner. 
In  the  evening  we  went  into  the  never  failing,  endless 
subject  of  my  Affairs,  about  which  he  was  very  kind 
and  gave  me  much  further  Advice  concerning 
Prudence  and  constant  Economy." 


From  the  following  letter  it  appears  that  Philip  had 
asked  Catherine  to  help  him  in  making  arrangements 
with  his  father  before  he  married. 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE 
YOUNGER. 

"  EXETER, 
"  vjth  February,  1805. 

"  MY  DEAR  PHILIP, 

"  So  few  occasions  as  I  have  had  to  laugh 
for  many  a  day  may  well  excuse  my  catching  at  every 
trifle  that  can  give  me  a  pleasant,  though  but 
momentary  feeling.  You  must  not  suspect  me  how- 
ever of  laughing  now,  but  I  will  try  to  make  the  best, 
even  of  the  present  case,  unhappy  as  I  think  it  for  my 
own  individual  share.  All  that  you  say  of  yourself  is 
very  just,  and  whenever  I  see  the  opportunity  of 


604  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1805 

speaking  with  effect  I  will  do  so ;  but  in  pecuniary 
matters  I  am  sure  I  ought  not  to  interfere  till  my  father 
opens  the  subject  comfortably  to  me.  With  regard 
to  myself  I  rely  wholly  on  him  and  most  confidently, 
never  having  given  him  one  single  cause  of  offence  in 
my  life,  and  feeling  now  more  affectionately  attached 
to  him  (from  the  tenderest  reasons)  than  I  have  ever 
done.  It  would  be  strange  indeed  if  on  this  point  I 
was  not  at  ease.  Do  not  suppose  my  dear  Philip  that 
I  am  taking  up  a  part  against  you  if  I  state  (in 
opposition  to  what  you  say  of  our  devotion  to  his 
happiness  and  long  habits  of  indulgence)  some  of  his 
strongest  claims  upon  us,  rather  I  might  say  on  me, 
standing  as  I  do  in  the  place  of  those  that  are  gone. 
For  Sally  he  has  done  more  than  any  Father  ever  did 
who  had  others  so  justly  dearer  to  him.  Mary  he 
settled  according  to  her  wishes.  When  it  was  thought 
right  for  poor  Harry  to  go  to  Nice  he  consented  to 
everything  that  was  suggested.  In  the  following  year  in 
the  depths  of  winter  he  undertook  for  my  Lizzy's  sake 
such  a  journey  as  might  have  dismayed  the  youngest 
and  most  sanguine  disposition.  I  remember  all  the 
circumstances  of  that  moment,  and  as  I  then  engaged 
with  myself,  so  will  I  never  forget  them  ;  through  the 
9  anxious  months  of  last  year  he  let  us  do  all  &  every- 
thing we  had  a  hope  from,  &  when  all  hope  was  gone 
he  fulfilled  everything  he  had  promised  for  me,  he 
has  preserved  the  same  conduct  since  I  left  London, 
&  I  am  under  particular  obligations  for  the  manner 
of  his  consenting  to  my  coming  here.  I  might  wish 
that  his  remembrance  of  those  dear  creatures  was 
as  lively  as  mine  and  his  regrets  as  keen  but  I  should 


1805]  TIbe  jfrancts  Xetters  605 

be  unjust  to  expect  it.  At  his  age,  strong  and 
vigorous  as  he  is,  the  subject  must  be  more  painful  to 
him  than  to  us,  &  the  contemplation  of  all  that  relates 
to  it  naturally  warded  off!  Consider  too  my  dear 
Philip  what  would  be  my  situation,  if  instead  of  things 
being  as  they  are  he  was  given  up  to  melancholy  & 
wretchedness,  where  then  would  be  my  resource 
even  for  momentary  pleasures.  I  must  make  the  best 
of  all  things,  for  life,  a  long  one  perhaps,  is  still  before 
me,  I  am  past  the  age  of  illusions,  without  being  near 
that  time  when  all  things  become  alike  indifferent. 
It  has  been  a  relief  to  me  to  write  you  this  letter,  & 
I  have  felt  that  I  could  never  have  a  better  right  to 
expect  you  to  understand  it  in  the  sense  it  is  written 
than  at  this  moment,  when  I  am  so  heartily  engaged 
in  your  interests  and  so  anxious  to  see  you  happy. 
God  bless  you, 

"C.   FRANCIS. 

"  If  you  do  not  write  as  openly  as  ever,  I  shall  take 
it  for  granted  that  you  do  not  understand  me." 


MARY  JOHNSON'S  DIARY  CONTINUED. 
"  Wednesday,  Feb.  27  th,  1805.  I  wish  to  get  a 
house  of  Creditable  appearance  either  in  Clarges  St.  at 
the  end  close  to  the  Green  Park,  or  near  St.  James's 
Park.  I  am  determined  not  to  go  into  the  further 
parts  of  the  Town,  for  without  the  constant  use 
of  a  carriage,  it  is  a  continual  inconvenience  & 
expense,  &  I  must  never  forget  that  in  my  pursuit 
after  a  House.  ...  I  am  perfectly  aware  how 
difficult  it  will  be  to  get  a  House  of  this  description, 


6o6  Ube  ffrancte  Xettets  [1805 

very  Airy  &  healthy,  for  such  a  Rent  as  I  could  afford 
to  give. — however,  I  must  try,  whenever  I  have  parted 
with  this. — Airy,  pleasant,  &  close  to  the  Green  Park 
or  St.  James's  park  are  the  great  points. 

"Friday,  March  ist.  I  feel  more  than  ever  anxious 
to  dispose  of  my  house  here  in  Sloane  St.,  and  no 
arguments  or  entreaties  from  Philip  or  Catherine  shall 
persuade  me  against  it.  I  will  never  again  go  so  far 
&  such  an  inconvenient  distance  from  London. 

"  I  will  never  again  put  myself  so  much  out  of  the 
World,  as  I  unfortunately  have  by  taking  this  house 
in  Sloane  St.  but  I  have  purchased  my  experience, 
&  must  take  the  opportunity  of  the  fine  months  in  the 
Spring,  when  it  is  the  most  pleasant  &  tempting 
to  part  with  the  Lease,  even  if  I  keep  all  the 
Furniture. 

"  No  words  can  do  justice  to  describing  what  I  have 
felt  &  suffered  on  this  detestable  subject  of  Money,  but 
I  have  at  last  learnt,  &  with  perfect  conviction,  that  in 
this  Life  it  is  the  concern  of  the  most  important 
consequence,  &  never  never  to  be  managed  or 
regarded  with  indifference  or  carelessness. 

"  March  jtk.  The  solitary  hours  I  have  passed  for 
more  than  three  months,  in  this  house,  have  not  been 
entirely  lost,  on  the  contrary,  I  am  sure  all  the  time 
I  have  had  for  reflection  on  my  own  situation  & 
pecuniary  circumstances,  on  the  character  &  conduct 
of  my  own  family  &  the  World  in  general  will  be  most 
useful,  &  productive  of  Good  to  me  through  Life.  I 
mean,  having  written  down  my  opinions  &  best  & 
wisest  observations  in  this  Book,  which  shall  be  one  of 
daily  constant  reference  to  me,  that  I  may  never  never 


1 8os]  Ube  ffrancis  Xetters  607 

forget  my  resolutions  or  my  observations  ;  which  will 
enable  me  to  conduct  myself  with  much  more  discretion 
&  Wisdom  than  I  have  hitherto. 

"  One  rule  I  make  on  which  my  own  consequence 
depends  is  never  to  complain  of  any  body's  neglect  of 
me.  it  is  useless,  &  only  mortifying  to  oneself. 

"Friday,  March  i^th.  My  Father  called  this 
morning.  .  .  .  My  Father  stayed  but  a  few  minutes, 
&  had  little  to  say,  however,  I  endeavoured  to  in- 
terest him  by  talking  of  Sheen,  which  he  is  going 
to  dispose  of  finally. 

"  Saturday ',  March  ibth.  This  evening  my  Mother 
came  to  see  us,  it  is  the  first  time  she  has  been  in  the 
carriage  since  she  left  this  House  last  November, 
poor  fellow !  The  children  &  I  received  her  with 
the  utmost  kindness  &  she  was  quite  pleased  with 
her  visit. 

"  Thursday  evening \  June  6th.  Resolution  I  now 
make  before  I  go  to  St.  James's  Place.  To  avoid 
inviting  any  company  to  Dinner  with  the  exception  of 
one  party  I  wish  to  have,  &  have  some  pleasant  little 
scheme  for  the  evening. 

"  My  best  plan  when  this  month  in  St.  James's  Place 
is  expired,  which  will  bring  us  in  the  Summer  to  the 
9th  July  will  I  believe  be  to  go  immediately  to  the  sea, 
&  not  stay  any  longer  in  Town  &  never  to  London 
will  I  return  till  I  really  have  the  means  of  living  in  a 
good  comfortable  house  in  a  pleasant  convenient  situa- 
tion, I  mean  near  St.  James's  or  the  Green  park,  & 
near  St.  James's  Square. 

"  On  Monday  the  loth  of  June  1805  I  removed 
with  all  my  little  family  from  Sloane  St.  to  No.  8  St. 


608  ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1805 

James's   Place,  the   trouble  and  continual   tormenting 
visits  I  have  been  obliged  to  receive  from  the  Land- 
lord Mr.   Lee,  have  really  almost  distracted  me,  &  at 
times  made  me  quite  ill,  thank  God  it  is  now  over,  and 
very  soon  I  hope  Mrs.  Debretts  Leases  will  be  made 
out,    when  mine   are   to    be    immediately    cancelled. 
Walpole  Eyre  being  present  &  Witness  of  this  Act. 
"  I  have  not  yet  mentioned  a  very  unfortunate  affair, 
which  happened  a  few  days  before  I  left  Sloane  St. — 
no  less  than  Emily's   eloping   from  Godschall's  with 
Captain   Darvall.     I   had   some  time  ago  received  a 
letter  from  Mrs.    Fullerton,   desiring  and   hoping  for 
my  consent,  as  one  of  her  Guardians,  to  their  marriage, 
&  speaking  highly  of  his  character.     Mrs.  F.  has  in 
the  strongest  manner  encouraged  their  attachment,  but 
at  the  time  she  wrote  to  me  on  the  subject  I  did  not 
think  it  likely  to  be  an  advantageous  match  for  Emily, 
and  being  so  very  young,  (only  16)  was  another  objec- 
tion to  her  marrying — I  therefore  refused  my  consent, 
till  his,  Captain  D.'s  Fortune,  family,  and  everything 
relating  to  him  was  known,   as    I    never  could  have 
justified    giving    my    consent    to   a   disadvantageous 
Marriage   for    Emily,    both    her    Brothers  and   Eliza 
were  strongly  against  it.     Godschall  thought  it  quite 
necessary  to  remove  her  from  Richmond  where  Capt. 
D,  was  quartered,  &   persuaded    Emily    to  come  to 
them  at    Halliford   where   she    had    been    I    suppose 
about  a  month,  when  she  determined  on  this  most  rash 
and    indelicate    measure.      Of  course    it    has   created 
great   distress   and  anxiety  to  her  brothers,  Eliza,  & 
all  her  friends. — Emily  has  written  to  me,  but  in  so 
cool  and  easy  a  stile  respecting  this  disgraceful  &  most 


1805]  Ube  ffrancte  Xetters  609 

rash   proceeding   that    I  determined  not  to  take  any 
notice  of  her  letter." 

Captain  Darvall  &  Emily  were  married  at  Gretna 
Green  and  again  in  London  on  Wednesday  26th  June 
1805. 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"June,  1805. 
"MY    DEAREST    CATTY, 

"  I  did  not  know  till  this  morning  the  blow 
that  awaited  us,  &  have  not  yet  got  over  my  first  shock 
at  hearing  of  it.  Angry,  very  angry  I  am  with  her, 
she  is  without  excuse  &  has  understanding  to  know 
that  she  is  so.  In  how  many  ways  it  touches  me  I 
need  not  tell  you.  Philip  is  most  violently  incensed 
with  her,  but  her  Brothers  have  most  cause  to  com- 
plain of  her  ingratitude,  &  the  disgrace  in  which  she 
has  involved  us  all.  God  forbid  they  should  involve 
themselves  further  by  any  violence  toward  Mr.  D. — 
She  has  courted  her  fate  in  spite  of  entreaties  argu- 
ments and  devices  to  save  her  from  it.  She  has 
behaved  with  a  want  of  feeling  of  all  sorts  shocking  to 
be  thought  of  at  her  age,  and  she  must  bear  the 
punishment,  for  that  she  will  and  does  repent  who 
can  doubt  ?  not*  I  My  Catty,  and  when  I  think  of 
all  she  must  have  suffered  my  heart  bleeds  for  her, 
poor  unhappy,  perverse  little  Girl. — for  him  he  must 
be  a  wretch  indeed,  God  knows  what  is  to  become  of 
them  !  As  to  their  living  with  Mrs.  Fullerton  she  is 
dying  herself;  that  she  will  provide  for  them  I  doubt 
not — she  is  bound  by  every  tie — for  she  is  the  original 
wilful  author  of  their  fate  :  feeling  for  Godschall  should 


610  ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1805 

at  least  have  made  Emily  make  her  House  not  his  the 
scene  of  her  disgrace.  He  has  done  all  that  affection 
&  prudence  with  some  confidence  in  her  solemn 
promises  could  suggest,  &  this  is  the  ungrateful  return 
she  makes  to  him  &  dear  Ralph.  The  best  thing  I 
can  hope  for  is  to  hear  that  they  are  married  !  When 
I  think  how  it  grieves  me  to  the  heart  but  of  course 
the  best  face  must  be  put  on  it.  O  my  Catty  what  a 
World  it  is — surely  one  need  not  seek  for  misery.  I 
am  really  confounded  when  I  think  of  all  the  securities 
we  seemed  to  have  against  such  misconduct  from  her 
excellent  heart  and  understanding.  Nothing  I  am 
sure  would  have  prevented  her  since  she  has  acted  so 
shamelessly  after  such  things  as  have  passed — you 
know  not  the  half  of  them.  Pray  write  to  me.  I  am 
most  anxious  to  hear  of  dear  Ralph's  safe  return.  As 
for  my  poor  Emily  I  know  not  what  to  wish !  she  is 
most  unhappy. 

"  God  bless  you  dearest  Catty, 

"  Yr.  Ever  Affectionate, 

"  ELIZA  FRANCIS. " 

GODSCHALL  JOHNSON  TO  MRS.  JOHNSON. 

"1th  June,  1805. 

"  MY  DEAR  MRS.  JOHNSON, 

"  Mr.  Milles  I  hope  explained  to  you  that 
my  not  calling  in  Sloane  St.  did  not  proceed  from 
inattention  to  you. 

"We  traced  Emily  &  Captn.  Darvall  on  the  road 
towards  Oxford  as  far  as  Henley  where  I  left  Ralph 
with  a  proper  Companion  to  try  &  overtake  them. 
Their  point  appears  to  be  Holyhead  as  far  as  one  can 


1805]  ZTbe  jfrancig  OLetters  6n 

conjecture  and  thence  to  Ireland.  They  had  sixteen 
hours  start,  but  as  it  is  impossible  for  Emily  to  bear 
the  Fatigue  of  so  long  a  Journey  without  once 
stopping,  the  Bow  Street  Officer  expressed  his  certainty 
of  overtaking  them.  .  .  . 

"  I  am  Dear  Madam 

11  Yrs  Affectionately 

"  GODSCHALL  JOHNSON." 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  RAMSGATE, 
"June  qth. 

"  I  have  just  got  your  letter  &  none  from  Godschall 
since  yesterday  so  that  of  course  he  has  yet  no  tidings. 
We  know  however  certainly  that  they  did  not  go  the 
North  Road.  Godschall  &  Ralph  had  traced  them  to 
Henley  where  they  changed  Horses  at  12  o'clock  on 
Tuesday  night  and  where  Godschall  left  Ralph  &  the 
Officer  at  4  o'clock  on  Wednesday  afternoon,  who 
proceeded  with  all  expedition  on  their  track — the  only 
probable  conjecture  seems  that  they  are  gone  to 
I  reland — if  so  Ralph  may  yet  catch  them  at  the  port — 
.  .  .  You  see  they  had  exactly  16  hours  start  of 
Ralph — but  in  so  long  a  distance  he  might  recover 
this.  I  know  not  however  what  to  hope,  or  wish, 
if  they  should  have  stopt  on  the  road  I  imagine  Ralph 
would  not  wish  to  overtake  them.  Not  a  line  has  she 
left  to  any  one  to  assure  us  that  she  will  be  married 
directly  or  to  lessen  one  of  our  fears.  I  was  at  first 
persuaded  by  this  that  it  was  an  unpremeditated  act, 
that  she  had  met  him  for  the  purpose  of  taking  leave 
before  she  went  to  Jersey  and  that  he  had  taken 


612  tTbe  jfrancte  Xettcrs  [1805 

advantage  of  the  moment — but  her  cool  artifice  which 
proves  the  contrary  really  confounds  me.  Think  too 
of  Mrs.  Fullerton's  cool  assurance,  who  when  informed, 
expresses  neither  concern  nor  surprise  but  says  she 
has  no  doubt  they  will  be  very  happy,  &  in  time  very 
rich,  &  hopes  no  steps  will  be  taken  to  follow  them. 
One  would  really  conclude  she  was  in  their  confidence. 
It  is  some  little  extenuation  of  Emily's  guilt  that  she 
has  had  to  do  with  such  a  person — but  nothing  can 
excuse  her  loss  of  all  natural  feeling  &  all  sincerity. 
I  still  think  the  horror  of  her  situation  must  have 
come  home  to  her  long  since,  at  1 6  in  the  power  of 
such  a  man  !  She  could  not  surely  triumph  after  she 
was  fairly  embarked  in  this  shocking  undertaking.  .  .  . 
The  best  we  can  look  to  is  to  see  her  married  with 
as  little  disgrace  as  may  now  be,  &  secured  from 
pecuniary  distress,  &  this  with  so  worthless  a 
guardian  of  her  youth  and  imprudence  as  Mr,  Darvall 
is  indeed  a  sad  prospect.  When  I  think  how  promis- 
ing her  temper  &  understanding  were  I  must  ever 
lament  for  her — but  her  whole  character  has  really 
been  changed  since  this  unfortunate  connection. 
"  God  bless  you  my  dearest  Catty." 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"[/***  7]  1805. 

"  .  .  .  I  will  send  you  Emily's  letter.  ...  I  have 
been  so  much  hurt  at  her  treatment  of  Godschall  that 
I  have  been  much  less  touched  by  her  letter  to  me 
than  I  should  have  been.  I  did  however  much  wish 
to  answer  it,  but  Philip  would  not  hear  of  it  &  I  do 
not  now  regret  it  as  she  has  not  yet  written  to 


1 8os]  ZTbe  frauds  betters  613 

Godschall  or  Lucy  [wife  of  Godschall  Johnson],  but 
both  she  and  Captain  Darvall  have  contrived  to 
write  to  Mrs.  Fullerton  &  she  has  desired  them  to 
come  to  her  House  immediately  so  that  I  imagine 
they  will  be  up  in  the  course  of  this  week.  I  hope 
Godschall  &  Ralph  will  not  irritate  each  other 
against  Mr.  D.  but  at  present  Godschall  is  much 
incensed,  particularly  with  the  daring  air  of  defiance 
with  which  he  conducted  the  thing,  two  officers  of 
his  Regiment  rode  with  them  as  an  escort.  We 
have  written  all  we  can  to  pacify  G.'s  anger  against 
him  &  confine  it  more  to  Emily,  which  is  the  safest 
of  the  two,  &  truly  she  deserves  it. — this  fatal  con- 
nection seems  really  to  have  perverted  her  whole 
Character,  but  she  is  very  very  young,  &  may  yet 
return  to  a  sense  of  her  many  failures.  Certainly 
some  part  of  her  conduct  since  her  acquaintance 
with  Mr.  D.  has  been  foreign  to  her  natural 
Character.  She  was  formerly  remarkably  open, 
sincere,  &  natural,  &  I  must  believe  that  she  would 
still  have  been  so  but  for  the  strange  influence  this 
man  acquired  over  her,  his  Character  I  fear  is  artful 
in  the  extreme.  .  .  ." 

GODSCHALL  JOHNSON  TO  MRS.  JOHNSON. 

"  HALLIFORD, 
"  Thursday. 

"  MY  DEAR  MRS.  JOHNSON, 

"  Mrs.  Fullerton  received  a  Letter  from 
Emily  &  another  from  Captn.  Darvall  the  Day 
before  yesterday,  but  as  she  did  not  think  fit  to 
communicate  this  to  me  I  was  led  into  the  error  of 

VOL.  n.  1 8 


6 14  £be  jfrancis  Xetters  [1805 

telling  you  nobody  had  heard  from  them.  They  are 
staying  at  the  Inn  at  Carlisle,  &  have  been  for  a 
whole  week  since  the  Mock  Ceremony  of  a  Gretna 
Green  marriage,  without  signifying  the  least  Intention 
of  coming  up  to  be  properly  married.  Emily  has 
written  to  Eliza,  a  copy  of  which  Letter  I  received 
this  Morning,  in  it  she  lays  the  whole  of  her 
Misconduct  upon  me,  how  she  means  to  prove  that 
I  had  any  thing  to  do  with  it  I  do  not  know,  but  till 
she  &  Captain  Darvall  acknowledge  the  Infamy  of 
their  conduct  (which  has  been  in  many  ways  worse 
than  the  Act  of  running  away)  I  am  quite  resolved 
that  no  sort  of  friendly  Intercourse  shall  take  place 
between  them  &  me. — Mrs.  Fullerton  is  the  Person 
who  has  brought  all  this  Mischief  about  &  who 
now  pretends  to  justify  it,  she  is  the  Person  who 
will  receive  them  cordially  &  who  I  think  is  bound 
to  provide  for  them.  She  had  the  Assurance  to  tell 
Lucy  that  she  was  very  glad  it  had  not  happened 
from  her  House,  which  is  an  observation  I  never 
will  forgive  ;  she  was  absurd  enough  to  say  that 
any  Girl  but  Emily  would  have  done  this  long  since 
(long  since  at  16  !  \).  My  feelings  for  Emily  on  this 
occasion  are  entirely  done  away  by  her  conduct  since 
she  went  away,  &  by  her  own  coolness  on  the 
occasion,  &  I  must  confess  that  resentment  at  her 
neglect  of  her  Family,  &  at  her  Assurance  in  writing 
as  coolly  on  the  subject  as  if  she  had  literally  done 
no  harm  is  my  only  remaining  sentiment.  ...  I 
thought  it  better  to  trouble  you  with  this  to  inform 
you  she  had  written,  though  not  to  me,  from  whose 
House  she  went  away,  &  who  have  a  right  from 


TTbe  Brands  Xetters  615 

many  circumstances  to  consider  myself  as  the  most 
injured  Person  in  the  Business.  .  .  . 
"  Yrs.  Very  Affect*. 

"GoDSCHALL  JOHNSON." 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  RAMSGATE, 
"  Monday,  June,  1805. 

"  MY  DEAREST  KITTEN, 

"...  We  have  seen  but  little  of  the  World 
these  last  few  days.  The  Elphinstones,  Adams, 
Wakes,  &  I  believe  all  Ramsgate  are  gone  to  some 
stupid  Races  beyond  Deal.  .  .  .  The  Wakes,  par- 
ticularly my  Lady,  are  worn  out  with  the  place,  they 
know  nobody  but  Ld.  &  Lady  Spencer  &  have 
nothing  to  do  but  to  think  of  their  health.  She  is 
certainly  uncommonly  pleasant  though  as  whimsical 
as  need  be — he  passes  two  hours  every  morning  with 
us.  I  think  him  very  amusing  but  would  not  for  the 
earth  be  married  to  him.  If  my  kitten  could  have 
gone  with  us  to  Courteen  hall  I  am  sure  it  would  have 
done  her  good  ...  for  she  might  have  been  as 
indolent  as  the  day  was  long  without  being  singular. 
Two  such  idle  creatures  as  the  Wakes  I  never  saw.  .  .  . 
I  should  be  much  obliged  to  you  to  get  a  little  keep- 
sake for  me  for  Emmy.  I  do  not  mean  to  give  her 
anything  of  value  till  I  know  what  she  is  in  want  of, 
but  just  a  little  token  of  love — she  would  like  some 
of  my  hair,  I  think  you  have  some  that  you  kept — 
if  so  pray  let  Ash  make  her  a  thick  Bracelet  of  it 
one  of  those  very  thick  ones  that  you  do  not  like, 
to  go  once  round  &  fasten  with  a  large  gold  snap, 
when  he  has  done  it  let  him  send  it  to  Sally,  &  Em 


6i6  Ube  ffrancte  Otters  [1805 

shall  send  to  her  for  it.  Lucy  tells  me  his  Mother 
old  Mrs.  Darvall  has  set  her  up  in  clothes.  I  have 
not  heard  of  any  one  act  of  generosity  on  the  part 
of  Mrs.  Fullerton  but  I  am  not  surprised,  I  expect 
she  will  confine  herself  to  the  usual  present,  a  pair 
of  Candlesticks.  There  are  two  of  the  Officers  married 
to  very  Amiable  Women  which  will  be  a  great  circum- 
stance for  Em  when  they  join  the  Regiment,  After 
all,  we  never  know  what  is  best.  It  may  end 
happily,  at  all  events  we  must  make  the  best  of 
everything  in  this  uncertain  life." 

We  gather  from  this  letter  that  Emily's  family  had 
by  this  time  reconciled  themselves  to  her  marriage, 
and  in  the  following  letter  we  find  Captain  Darvall 
and  Emily,  in  company  with  Emily's  brother  Godschall 
and  his  wife,  paying  a  visit  to  friends  of  the  Johnsons 
in  Jersey,  by  whom  the  bride  and  bridegroom  were 
kindly  received. 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE, 
"  Thursday. 

"  MY  DEAREST  KITTEN, 

"...  I  am  very  sorry  to  hear  you  have  met 
with  nothing  at  all  enlivening,  but  I  hope  a  few  days 
may  produce  a  change  for  the  better  in  Clifton,  mean- 
time you  are  very  good  to  drink  the  waters.  Philip 
thinks  &  so  do  I  that  you  did  once  learn  to  sing  of 
Mr.  Small,  but  at  all  events  we  advise  you  not  to 
lose  the  opportunity  of  passing  a  little  of  your  time 
so  profitably  to  both  parties. — As  to  Mrs.  F.  &  your 
Sister  Sally  they  have  really  done  nothing  but  spoil 


1805]  Ube  jfrancte  ^Letters  617 

us  since  we  came  to  Town.  .  .  .  The  Jersey  party 
are  returned  after  passing  a  fortnight  very  pleasantly 
with  the  General  which  however  did  not  quite  make 
them  amends  for  their  dreadful  passage  out  ;  they  were 
beating  about  3  days  &  2  nights,  part  of  the  time  in 
a  violent  storm  &  the  sea  so  rough  that  during  a 
whole  night  they  could  not  put  up  a  sail.  They  were 
all  wretchedly  ill  except  Godschall,  but  particularly 
Lucy  &  Mr.  Darvall  who  arrived  in  a  deplorable 
plight,  think  what  she  must  have  suffered  poor  little 
Girl  in  not  being  able  to  take  her  cloathes  off  the 
whole  time !  .  .  .  they  were  much  pressed  to  stay 
but  Mr.  Darvall  could  not  get  his  leave  of  absence 
extended.  .  .  .  The  General  was  delighted  with  their 
visit  &  entertained  them  most  sumptuously,  he  was 
very  kind  to  Em  &  gave  her  ^50  to  buy  trinkets. 
I  have  not  yet  heard  from  himself  how  he  likes  Mr. 
Darvall  &  I  am  quite  determined  to  take  nothing  on 
report  in  future.  We  go  tomorrow  to  Richmond  to 
meet  them  at  Mrs.  Fullerton's." 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 
"  MY  DEAREST  KITTEN, 

"  .  .  .  I  conceive  your  Father  will  not  stay 
long  in  London,  as  to  Sally  I  am  now  convinced 
of  what  I  have  often  thought  that  her  greatest 
happiness  is  being  left  alone  in  Town  with  your 
Mother,  melancholy  as  I  should  think  the  life  in  all 
ways.  .  .  .  Now,  I  must  tell  you  I  have  at  last  seen 
the  Darvalls,  by  a  piece  of  good  luck  we  set  out 
yesterday  before  I  had  received  a  letter  from  Mrs. 
Fullerton  putting  us  off.  We  found  her  too  ill  to 


618  Ube  jfrancte  betters  [1805 

dine  with  us,  but  passed  a  long  day  with  dear  Emily 
and  Mr.  Darvall,  and  I  must  confess  returned  very 
thankful  for  finding  him  so  amiable.  Nor  was  there 
yesterday  anything  either  in  Emily's  dress  or  manner 
the  least  remarkable.  I  saw  a  great  deal  of  him  but 
Philip  still  more  and  we  were  both  equally  pleased 
with  all  we  observed.  He  is  not  certainly  a  man  of 
very  superior  understanding,  nor  did  Philip  conceive 
him  to  be  remarkably  well  informed  but  certainly 
not  one  young  man  in  10  in  these  days  is  either  and 
as  far  as  his  manner  and  common  conversation  go  I 
think  he  is  unexceptionable,  and  has  one  great  ad- 
vantage over  most  young  men  in  being  particularly 
well  bred  and  modest,  I  do  not  mean  awkward,  for 
he  was  perfectly  at  his  ease,  but  really  the  modesty 
of  not  thinking  too  highly  of  himself — and  I  am 
sure  he  is  very  fond  of  Emily  and  not  foolishly  so. 
She  is  looking  very  well  and  I  do  not  think  her 
the  least  altered  in  her  manner  which  makes  me 
hope  she  is  really  happy.  I  think  .  .  .  she  is  no 
longer  much  impressed  with  all  that  has  passed 
since  I  saw  her,  but  this  is  another  proof  that  she 
is  happy  and  therefore  I  rejoiced  to  find  it  so.  It 
was  remarkable  that  the  last  time  we  four  had  met 
at  Mrs.  Fullerton's  was  the  day  he  had  promised  to 
wait,  and  when  so  much  advice  was  given  her. 
If  she  had  felt  anything  like  regret  this  could  not 
but  have  occurred  to  her  painfully.  She  spoke  of 
it  on  the  contrary  laughing,  and  did  not  appear 
particularly  affected  in  any  way  by  seeing  us.  I 
regret  very  much  that  we  cannot  pass  a  little  time 
together  that  I  might  discover  more  certainly  the 


1805]  Ube  jfrancte  betters  6i9 

state  of  her  mind  ;  judging  from  yesterday  (and  I 
saw  no  appearance  of  constraint)  nothing  can  be 
happier.  The  only  thing  that  did  not  quite  satisfy 
me  was  that  I  think  the  attachment  is  stronger  on 
his  side  than  on  hers,  and  that  she  has  not  much 
respect  for  his  judgment.  Sincerely  do  I  regret 
now  all  that  was  said  to  put  her  out  of  conceit 
with  him,  but  the  only  thing  that  can  repair  the 
mischief  is  attending  very  much  to  him  and  making 
him  of  more  consequence  than  her.  I  do  not  think 
Godschall  &  Ralph  are  quite  kind  on  the  subject 
yet,  but  they  have  many  excuses.  I  shall  not  how- 
ever, pay  so  much  regard  to  their  account  in  future, 
I  have  now  been  able  to  judge  of  one  or  two  things 
myself  in  which  they  have  done  both  him  and  Emily 
injustice.  I  should  think  he  was  a  very  innocent 
uncorrupted  character  which  is  a  great  blessing  in 
these  days,  he  spoke  very  handsomely  of  Godschall 
and  Ralph.  .  .  .  We  all  parted  the  best  of  Friends, 
they  both  spoke  of  your  great  kindness  and  particularly 
of  your  Father's." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  CATHERINE 
FRANCIS. 

"  RAMSGATE, 
"  13  August,  1805. 

"  MY  DEAR  CATY, 

"  .  .  .  We  leave  this  on  Thursday  but 
shall  not  be  in  Town  till  Saturday  as  we  purpose 
passing  Friday  evening  at  Pheasant  Lodge.  .  .  . 
Yesterday  evening  we  drank  Tea  at  Mrs.  Popkins's 
and  were  much  amused  by  various  performances  on 
the  part  of  the  Pop  and  her  Portigee ;  who  has 


620  xtbe  jfrancfs  Xettcrs  [1805 

mounted  a  most  luxuriant  perruque — This  evening 
we  go  to  Lady  Balcarres's  to  meet  the  Keiths.  .  .  . 
The  Company  here  have  been  anxiously  expecting  the 
French  during  the  last  two  days — the  wind  having  been 
right  fair  for  them,  and  the  weather  most  favorable. 
At  noon  yesterday  we  were  amused  with  the  report 
of  a  most  tremendous  Cannonade  off  Boulogne  & 
Calais.  The  South  wind  brought  us  every  discharge 
distinctly.  Those  of  the  Boulogne  Mortar  Batteries 
were  magnificent.  We  have  not  yet  heard  what  the 
action  was  between  them  and  our  cruisers ;  but  it 
must  have  been  a  pretty  severe  one,  as  all  the  ships 
but  three  or  four  heavy  ones  left  the  Downs  to  take 
a  share  in  it.  From  the  French  coast  it  must  have 
afforded  the  grandest  spectacle  they  have  had  for 
some  time  of  that  kind.  But  those  admitted  to  the 
best  places,  I  trow  paid  pretty  dearly  for  them.  I 
have  as  little  ambition  as  I  have  apprehension  to 
see  such  a  sight  from  Ramsgate  Cliffs.  The  mere 
sound  without  the  sight  affected  our  nerves  here  in 
a  way  the  least  pleasant — and  many  would  have  it 
the  whole  flotilla  were  out  and  forcing  their  way 
across.  Luckily  for  them,  I  believe  they  took  good 
care  to  keep  close  to  their  own  batteries  and  harbour, 
and  to  get  back  with  the  first  symptom  of  change 
of  wind.  It  now  blows  a  gale  from  the  N.  West, 
and  were  the  Imperial  flotilla  now  all  out,  very 
little  of  it  could  escape  total  destruction  on  its  own 
coast  without  any  help  from  us — the  Wind  alone 
would  dispose  of  them.  But  if  we  know  this,  how 
much  more  do  they,  whose  immediate  concern  it  is. 
From  Boulogne  there  can  be  no  danger  without  a 


1805]  Ube  jftancis  betters  621 

superior  protecting  fleet.  To  be  sure  it  is  no  fault 
of  Sir  Robert  Calder,  if  they  have  not  such  a  fleet 
to  protect  them  and  cover  their  passage.  And 
Ministers  are  in  some  degree  justified  in  saying 
the  Country  is  in  danger,  till  we  know  where  the 
combined  fleet  is  gone.  When  the  danger  is  past, 
the  people  will  have  leisure  to  enquire,  as  they 
certainly  have  a  right  to  know  of  the  said  Sir 
Robert  Calder  three  things,  i .  Why  he  discontinued 
the  action.  2.  Why  he  did  not  renew  it.  3.  Why 
he  lost  sight  of  them.  If  these  3  questions  are  not 
all  satisfactorily  answered,  I  don't  think  any  punish- 
ment too  great  for  such  a  failure  to  the  nation  as 
his  appears  to  be.  To  call  it  a  victory  is  nonsense. 
It  smells  on  the  contrary  strongly  of  a  most  disgrace- 
ful defeat.  This  is  not  the  opinion  of  the  professional 
people  here,  but  I  understand  there  is  great  dissatis- 
faction in  London  upon  the  subject.  Cobbett  merely 
regrets  that  Lord  Nelson  (in  Italics)  did  not  fall  in 
with  them.  Sir  Robert  Calder  has  a  high  character 
and  I  shall  like  to  hear  how  he  justifies  himself. 

"  I  am  glad  you  have  got  into  so  pleasant  a  house, 
and  advise  you  not  to  leave  it  in  a  hurry. 

"  P.  F.- 
MARY JOHNSON'S  JOURNAL  CONTINUED. 

"  A  most  extraordinary  incomprehensible  man  my 
father  is.  Sally  told  me  today  that  he  had  repeatedly 
talked  to  her  on  the  subject  of  my  going  to  Brighton 
and  had  expressed  the  greatest  possible  objection  to 
my  talked-of  plan  of  living  there.  I  fancy  he  thinks 
it  would  be  very  disreputable  for  me  as  there  is  a 


622  Ube  Brands  ^Letters  [1805 

great  mixture  of  company  and  often  very  bad.  With 
respect  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  he  knows  I  like  her  and 
that  she  has  always  been  very  attentive  and  kind 
to  me  and  the  children ;  in  short  I  know  he  thinks 
I  should  be  tempted  to  live  constantly  in  society  many 
of  whom  composing  it  I  ought  not  to  associate  with. 
He  told  Sally  he  had  not  the  least  objection  in  the 
world  to  my  coming  to  Brighton,  for  six  weeks  or 
two  months  in  the  autumn  but  could  not  endure  the 
thoughts  of  my  passing  the  summer  months  there,  or 
that  I  should  make  it  my  place  of  residence.  So 
I  must  take  this  subject  into  consideration,  and 
certainly  not  risk  the  highly  offending  my  father  by 
going  to  live  at  Brighton  in  opposition  to  all  he  has 
said.  He  told  Sally  he  should  not  speak  to  me  on 
the  subject  as  I  had  often  boasted  I  was  my  own 
mistress  and  would  do  as  I  pleased  which  I  solemnly 
declare  I  never  did  speaking  to  him  or  in  his  hearing. 
The  fact  is  he  would  not  choose  to  speak  to  me  or 
to  risque  my  not  following  his  advice.  However  I 
am  glad  to  hear  his  opinion  even  in  an  indirect 
manner,  for  it  seems  to  me  he  never  speaks  freely 
or  ventures  to  give  any  opinion  at  all,  it  always 
appears  to  be  that  he  is  only  attending  to  and  making 
his  remarks  on  the  conversation  of  others." 

In  another  part  of  her  journal  Mrs.  Johnson  alludes 
with  disapproval  to  her  father  having  thought  fit  to 
explain  her  altered  circumstances  to  the  Prince,  lest  she 
should  be  drawn  into  expenditure  unsuitable  to  them. 
In  the  autumn  of  1805  Mrs.  Johnson  was  made  happy 
by  securing  a  house  in  Brighton  for  the  autumn  and 


1805]  ZTbe  jfrancis  betters  623 

winter.      Francis    writes   to   his    little   granddaughter 
before  the  house  was  finally  decided  on  : — 

"  Indeed,  indeed  my  own  little  Mary,  I  am  very 
much  obliged  to  you  for  your  kind  letter  of  Friday 
last.  Depend  upon  it  I  shall  do  all  I  can  to  make  it  a 
noble  jollification  at  Brighton.  But  Mama  need  not 
take  such  a  very  big  house,  as  /  shall  live  at  the 
Pavilion  and  Aunt  Kitty,  I  fear,  will  not  be  able 
to  live  tnere  at  all.  So  I  send  you  her  last  Letter, 
and  a  comical  Newspaper  and  remain  yours  and 
Kitten's  dutiful  Grand  Daddy,  <4  p  p  „ 

Francis  often  visited  his  daughter  at  her  Brighton 
house,  but  such  visits  must  have  been  a  doubtful 
joy  to  both  parties,  one  would  think.  The  following  is 
a  specimen  of  a  letter  to  her  after  one  of  their  quarrels, 
evidently  written  at  Brighton,  as  it  is  addressed  "  3 
Buff  &  Blue  "  :- 

"  This  note  is  only  to  apprize  you  that  I  do  not 
mean  to  dine  with  you  any  more  or  to  see  you  if 
I  can  avoid  it  nor  indeed  shall  I  stay  here  long  enough 
now  to  efface  any  part  of  the  impression  of  what 
has  lately  passed.  u  p  p  „ 

The  writer  of  the  following  letter,  Anne  Gunn,  is 
one  of  several  sisters  who  appear  to  have  been  Irish 
girls  in  Society  : — 

Miss  GUNN  TO  SARAH  FRANCIS. 

"  BRIGHTON,  No.  7,  PAVILLION  PARADE, 

-DEAR  Miss   FRANCIS,    "*«»»*"""  »*.  l8°5- 

"Can   I   address  you  after  my  long  neglect 
of  your  kind  request  of  writing  some  times  what  we 


624  Ube  jfrancte  betters  [1805 

were  about.     I  had  begun  several  Letters,  but  some 
accident  always  prevented  their  being  finished,  then, 
fear  of  your  not   hearing  what  I    had    to  say  in  my 
defence,    prevented    any   further    attempt   till    I    had 
the  pleasure  of  meeting  with  Mrs.  Johnson  here  who 
told  me  she  was  so  bad  a  correspondent,  that  I  should 
supply  her  place.     It  would  be  very  difficult  to  give 
you  an   exact  History  of  our    lives   and   adventures 
since    we   last   met,    as   they   were    so    various   it  is 
impossible  to  remember  them  all.     I  shall  go  as  far 
back    as    our   last   evening   in    London,    as    on    that 
important  night  we  got  acquainted  with  your  Favorite 
the   Prince,  at   Barry more's   Masquerade.      His  R.H. 
was  so  kind  to  us,   that   we  came   home  enchanted. 
We  sat  at  his  table,  and  sung  for  him  after  supper 
and  received  much  more  applause  than  we  deserved, 
as  we  were  most  terribly  frightened   and  sung  very 
bad,  I  think.     We  spent  a  few  days  at  Mrs.  Maddox 
pleasantly,  but  not  quite  reconciled  to  the  shades  and 
silvan  scenes,  as  our  hearts  were  set  on  some  gaieties 
we  had  left  behind.     We  had  a  very  pleasant  journey 
[to  Weymouth]  and  found  our  sisters  well  and  improved 
in  all  we  could  wish.     The  King  coming  soon  after, 
our  three  weeks  of  rest  were  just  sufficient  to  prepare 
us  for  what  was  to  come.     At  first  the  loss  of  sight 
of  his   Majesty  made  everyone  sad  but  he  soon  got 
on  at  this  his  favourite  place  and  we  began  our  fun. 
There  were  two  Fetes  very  good  indeed,  where  we 
all  were,   our   Brother  and  we ;  the    King   was  very 
good  to  him,  and  begged  he  might  come  to   Eton, 
presented  him  to  the    Master.       He    could  not  well 
distinguish    our    Sisters    dancing,    but  still   he    made 


i8os]  ZTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  625 

them  dance  one  of  his  old    Ballets.      The  Duke   of 
Gloucester's  death  put  a  stop   to  all    public   gaieties 
for  some  time  but  we  made  up  for  it  in  Private,  as 
we  were  at  home  continually  and   really  did  keep  a 
very  pleasant  House.     The  Princes  all  came  as  often 
as  we  would  admit,  particularly  our  Old  Favorite  the 
Duke  of  Cambridge  who  was   more   charming   than 
ever  and  lived  with  us  I  may  say.     The  Camps  were 
very  gay  and  the  Colonels  of  the  different  regiments 
gave  continual  dinners  &c.,  &c.,  particularly  Colonel 
Andrews  who  was  more  magnificent  than  the  others. 
You  might   have  seen  a  description  of  his    Fete  in 
the    Papers  to  the   Royal   Dukes — we   were  the  only 
Ladies  present,  of  course  had  them  all  to  ourselves. 
The  Duke  of  Cumberland  had  his  Band  to  play  twice 
a  Week  at  the  Rooms  which  was  a  famous  Lounge 
as  we  had  always  a  petit  Souper  after  it  at  home  or 
at  Lady  Charlevilles  which  supper  was  called  a   Tart. 
We  had  the  best  men   always   at   these    Tarts,  and 
much  fun  and  good   Humour.     Amongst  them  were 
Lords    Dundas,    Hinton,    Burghersh,    Westmoreland, 
Rivers — Gen1.    Meade,    Sir  Thomas   Dyer,   who  is  a 
Host  in  himself  of  wit  and  head,  with  several  others ; 
these  were  of  our  set  everywhere.      We  had  also   a 
charming  creature  Col1.  Taylor  Aide  de  Camp  to  the 
King — who  played   on    the    Violoncello   divinely — he 
was  also  handsome.     Our  hearts  were  in  Danger  very 
often    but    we    had    the    courage    to    resist    in  time. 
Soldiers  cannot  marry  in  these   sad   days,    we    must 
find    out    some    honest    Farmer.       The    sailing     at 
Weymouth   is  delightful,   and   we  enjoyed  it    in  per- 
fection  on   board   the   different   ships.      The   Queen 


626  Ube  jftancis  Xettets  [1805 

would  have  given  a  Gala  on  board  the  Yatches  when 
the  Prince  arrived  and  many  fine  things  on  that 
occasion  but  for  the  unlucky  exit  of  Old  Gloucester. 
There  were  innumerable  Sham  fights,  Reviews  &c., 
&c.,  and  the  Prince  the  Day  after  his  arrival  inspected 
the  whole  Line.  I  did  not  think  he  would  remember 
us  in  our  Sables,  but  he  did  us  the  Honor  to  give 
us  three  of  his  Bows.  The  Duke  of  Sussex  was  not 
well  with  a  bad  leg  and  begged  a  place  in  our 
Barouche  which  he  completely  filled.  We  had  much 
laughing  that  day  though  contrary  to  etiquette.  The 
Duke  of  Cambridge  requested  we  might  begin  old 
customs,  so  we  had  him  en  Famille  that  very  night. 
The  next  [day]  the  Prince  sent  to  say  he  would 
Honour  us  with  his  company  in  the  evening  after 
the  Lodge.  However  just  as  we  were  arranging 
with  the  Duke  of  C.  what  to  show  off  in,  a  note 
came  from  the  P[rincess]  Mary  to  say  His  R.H.  was 
unable  to  come  as  his  Leg  was  so  inflamed,  he  had 
sprained  a  sinew  I  believe.  At  the  Rooms  next 
evening  he  made  his  Apology  in  person  and  regretted 
it  very  much,  made  many  fine  speeches  to  Mamma 
and  hoped  she  would  come  to  Brighton  when  the 
King  left  Weymouth.  Papa  supped  with  him  twice 
and  was  as  much  pleased  with  him  as  all  the  world  on 
a  first  acquaintance.  He  did  me  the  Honor  of  sitting 
next  me  all  night,  at  the  Duke  of  C.'s  concert,  and 
repeated  his  wish  of  our  coming  here  ;  and  that  we 
should  find  it  everything  we  could  wish — he  said 
many  fine  things  which  were  flattering  if  I  had  the 
Vanity  to  believe  him,  but  alas  !  I  know  Princes  can 
say  prettier  things  even  than  other  men  and  mean 


Ube  ffrancte  Xettera  627 

nothing.  I  am  quite  au  fait  now  with  the  sex.  How 
far  we  shall  realise  all  these  fine  affairs  you  shall  learn 
hereafter,  as  Mrs.  Fitz.  being  so  ill  and  the  Prince 
not  remaining  here  more  than  four  days  since  we 
came  has  made  it  rather  Dull  and  at  the  Pavillion 
there  has  been  nothing.  His  R.H.  has  been  so  kind 
as  to  send  us  word  thro'  Mrs.  Fitz.  (who  told  it 
to  Gen1.  Dalrymple)  that  on  his  return  he  hoped  to 
see  us  at  the  Pavillion  and  Papa  at  Dinner.  I  long 
I  must  say  to  see  him  once  more  ;  as  his  manners 
are  quite  enchanting.  His  behaviour  on  the  late 
melancholy  death  of  our  Naval  Hero,  has  added  to 
the  interest  we  have  in  him.  You  have  felt  as 
everyone  must  on  this  sad  occasion  ;  no  Victory  can 
ever  compensate  for  so  great  a  loss. 

"  We  see  a  good  deal  of  our  friends  the  Thompsons 
we  meet  them  this  evening  at  the  Rooms,  and  to- 
morrow they  give  us  a  little  dance,  which  I  shall  enjoy 
very  much  as  we  have  [been]  rather  stupid  since  our 
arrival.  Our  Musicals  go  on  very  well  ;  we  had  such 
practice  this  summer.  We  had  the  Honor  of  singing 
for  Her  Majesty  and  the  Princess.  You  may  imagine 
our  alarm.  Their  kindness  was  so  great  that  we 
were  soon  put  at  ease  but  did  not  recover  our  Voices 
enough  :  However  Her  Majesty  told  several  people 
afterwards  (who  repeated  it  to  us)  that  she  was  very 
much  pleased.  The  Duke  of  Cumberland  remained 
some  time  with  us  after  the  Royal  Departure.  He 
did  us  the  favor  of  naming  us  wherever  he  dined  and 
then  expressing  a  wish  to  take  a  Family  dinner  with 
us.  This  Family  Dinner  in  a  Lodging  was  no  easy 
matter,  but  it  succeeded  a  merveille,  and  I  think  he 


628  ftbe  ffrancts  Xettets  [1805 

seemed  more  at  home  in  our  House  than  elsewhere. 
He  took  leave  next  Day  and  said  he  proposed  making 
Weymouth  his  head  quarters  and  hoped  to  find  us 
there,  which  kind  wish  we  have  disappointed  as  we 
have  no  inclination  for  any  more  dinners  en  Famille. 
Our  Journey  here  was  charming  and  thro'  a  beautiful 
country.  Our  Weather  fine  and  roads  good.  The 
first  day  we  dined  at  Milton  Abbey,  next  with  Lady 
A.  Ward  near  Southampton,  and  might  have  lived  all 
the  way  on  our  friends  but  were  too  modest  our 
Caravan  being  so  numerous.  We  have  got  a  snug 
House  for  a  Month  and  then  proceed  to  Tunbridge 
for  the  Winter,  till  the  Spring  call  us  to  London  when 
I  hope  we  shall  see  you  in  good  Health.  Mamma  is 
better  than  I  have  seen  her  for  a  long  time  and  with 
care  she  will  probably  keep  up  for  our  London  gaieties. 
If  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  write  me  an  answer  to 
this  sad  scribble  it  will  oblige  me  infinitely, 

"  Believe  me  sincerely  yours, 

"ANNE    GUNN." 

MARY  JOHNSON  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  5,  SOUTH  PARADE, 
"  Wednesday,  27 'th  NOT/.,  1805. 

"  I  intended  to  have  written  to  you  this  morning  my 
dear  Chick,  but  have  been  so  completely  occupied  and 
hurried  with  a  thousand  things  that  it  is  now  six 
o'clock  and  I  have  not  had  a  moment  to  do  as  I 
wished — but  however  I  must  write  you  a  line,  for  I 
was  truly  grieved  to  read  the  sad  account  you  wrote 
of  our  dear  Mother's  illness  and  of  the  frequent  returns 
she  has  lately  had  of  that  dreadful  complaint,  it  is 


i8o5]  Ube  jfrancfs  Xetters  629 

most  melancholy  for  her  and  you  !  the  more  so  as  it 
does  not  appear  to  be  in  Dr.  Baillies  power  to  do  her 
any    material    good  or  prevent  the  frequency  of  the 
attacks.     It  is  a  hard  task  to  keep  up  her  spirits  and 
your  own   in   such  a  scene  of  constant  anxiety  and 
alarm  but  it  will  ever  be  a  most  consoling  reflection 
to  know  you  have  done  all  that  was  possible  for  her 
poor  fellow !     My   Father  arrived   here   on    Monday 
evening  at  9  o'clock,  extremely  tired  and  sick  of  his 
tedious  cold  journey — but  had  a  good  night  and  woke 
the   next   morning   in   excellent   spirits  and  is  much 
pleased   with  my  new  house  on  the  South  Parade  ; 
into  which  we  removed  the  day  he  came.     When  we 
are  once  settled  I  think  we  shall  be  very  comfortable, 
it  is  certainly  much  warmer,  than  that  on  the  North 
Parade,   and  the  rooms  large  and   good — the  gaiety 
of  the  last  week  was  almost  too  much  for  me,  I  was 
out   every    night   and   three   times   at   the    Pavillion. 
Wednesday  evening   there  was  a   very   fine   concert 
there  and  Thursday  I  received  a  card  of  invitation  to 
a  Ball  the  next  evening,  which  was  numerous  gay  and 
elegant,  and  a  beautiful  supper,  the  Prince  particularly 
distinguished  Mrs.  Thomson,  of  course  she  was  much 
pleased   and    flattered    by    his    attention — his    R.H. 
desired  me  to  bring  the  little  girls  to  the  Pavilion  the 
next  evening  (Saturday)  as  he  meant  to  give  a  little 
Ball  to  the  Children,  it  being  Minny's  Birthday.     You 
may  imagine  how  delighted  Mary  and  Kate  were  on 
hearing  this  agreeable  intelligence.    They  were  dressed 
the  same  as  at  Mrs.  Thomson's  and  I  thought  looked 
very  pretty,  and  both  danced  with  less  fear  than  on 
the  first  occasion  of  their  performance.      There  was 
VOL.  n.  19 


630  zrbe  jFrancte  Xetters  [1805 

a  very  elegant  Supper  at  10  o'clock  after  which  the 
Children  returned  home  —  the  rest  of  the  party 
remained,  consisting  of  about  15  or  16  Ladies  and 
as  many  Gentlemen,  and  we  were  entertained  in 
a  very  uncommon  style  by  a  German  Baron — who 
exhibited  a  variety  of  extraordinary  Phantoms  and 
figures — the  party  being  introduced  into  a  room  where 
as  soon  as  we  were  seated  the  lights  were  all  ex- 
tinguished and  a  violent  Storm  of  Thunder,  lightning 
and  rain  commenced — after  which  the  ghastly  Phantom 
of  Death  stalked  in — at  the  same  moment  the  most 
solemn  beautiful  Music  was  heard.  You  may  imagine 
the  effect  of  such  a  sight  and  such  sweet  sounds — 
some  of  the  Ladies  pretended  or  were  much  terrified. 
Mr.  Sheridan  being  extremely  enlivened  was  disposed 
to  be  riotous  and  alarmed  the  Russian  Countess 
Gerelstoff  by  some  lively  sallies.  L.  Harrington  a 
Brother  of  Col1.  Stanhope's  sat  by  me  and  explained 
the  most  difficult  parts  of  this  Exhibition  which  lasted 
more  than  an  hour.  Now  God  bless  you  and  dear 
Mamma  my  dearest  Chick,  I  have  written  this  in  the 
greatest  haste.  Our  kindest  love  to  both  and  remain  ; 

"  Yours  Ever, 

"  MARIE." 

Mrs.   Francis's  long  invalid  life  was  drawing  to  a 
close — she  died  in  the  spring  of  the  year  1 806. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  BRIGHTON, 
"2oM  December,  1805. 

"In  short  it  rains  a  Cataract  and  blows  a  Hurri- 
cane.     At  this  writing  the  Square  and  the  road  to 


Ube  jfrancfs  Xetters  631 

it  are  equally  devoid  of  any  attraction  that  deserves 
to  be  called  irresistible.  De  L'autre  cott,  that  is,  on 
this  side,  I  am  in  possession  of  excellent  quarters, 
pleasant  Society,  and  everlasting  Festivity  at  the 
Pavillion.  Far  be  it  from  me  to  reckon  Eliza  Breton 
among  the  Arguments,  that  predominate  against 
Change  of  Place. 

"  Having  all  the  wise  heads  at  the  Cottage  in  my 
favour  I  may  defy  the  Critics.  The  only  thing  I  doubted 
was  the  a  propos  of  the  Dedication.  Did  you  feel  as 
if  you  liked  it,  on  the  first  Impression,  and  without 
Deliberation  ?  If  I  have  succeeded  I  have  the  full 
Merit  that  belongs  to  Difficulty  overcome.  In  all 
human  Probability,  you  will  not  see  me  before  the 
year  1806.  I  have  desired  my  Lady  to  send  you 
a  Turkey.  If  it  does  not  arrive  in  time  enough  for 
your  Christmas  dinner,  it  will  do  as  well  on  New 
Year's  day. 

"  Love  to  your  Mother  and  Sarah  and  Mrs. 
Macmahon,  and  desire  her  Spouse  to  have  Advice 
and  take  care  of  himself.  Mary  is  now  doctoring  the 
Children,  who  were  at  the  Ball  last  night,  where  one 
of  them  danced  with  Lord  Clare,1  the  other  with  Mr. 
FitzGibbon.  Pray  be  particular  about  dear  Madam 
Godfrey  and  John." 

The  Ministry  of  All  the  Talents  came  in  at  the 
beginning  of  1806.  Philip  Francis  naturally  expected 
to  receive  office  of  some  sort,  and  his  hopes  fixed 

1  The  second  Earl  of  Clare,  son  of  the  well-known  Irish  Chancellor. 
Mr.  Fitzgibbon,  the  brother  here  mentioned,  became  the  third  Lord 
Clare.  The  title  is  now  extinct. 


632  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1805 

themselves  upon  the  Governor-Generalship  of  India. 
Probably  he  was  considered  too  old  for  so  responsible 
a  post.  He  was,  as  will  be  seen,  offered  the  Govern- 
ment of  the  Cape,  with  a  salary  of  ,£10,000,  which  he 
declined.  He  received  the  Order  of  the  Bath. 


CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

"  14  March,  1806. 

"  MY  DEAR  MARY, 

t( .  .  .  By  the  first  words  of  my  letter  you 
will  see  that  it  is  only  for  your  own  Eye.  I  had 
wished  to  tell  you  some  days  ago  what  was  going  on 
here,  but  my  Father  thought  it  best  to  wait  till  things 
were  settled,  however  as  when  they  may  be  so  is 
uncertain  I  think  I  cannot  do  better  than  inform  you 
of  all  I  do  know,  and  remember  it  was  not  my  fault 
it  was  not  told  sooner — You  must  before  this  have 
guessed  that  the  first  object  of  his  wishes  was  not  to 
be  attained — he  has  been  offered  the  Government  of 
the  Cape  with  the  Salary  annexed  to  it  of  ;£  10,000 
a  year,  the  order  of  the  Bath,  and  to  be  one  of  the 
Privy  Council — The  Government  he  has  refused.  To 
quit  his  Country  again  for  any  Situation  but  that  which 
he  has  so  good  a  right  to,  and  which  would  gratify  all 
his  wishes,  could  not  be  expected  by  his  family,  and  / 
at  least  rejoice  that  he  has  refused  it ;  at  his  age  the 
first  of  blessings  is  such  a  state  of  health  as  he 
possesses,  and  to  risk  destroying  it  for  less  than  the 
object  he  has  laboured  for  so  many  years  would  be 
most  unwise,  more  I  cannot  tell  you  for  more  I  do  not 
know.  .  .  .  We  had  a  little  party  and  pretty  music 
but  the  weather  kept  two  thirds  of  our  company  away. 


1806]  ZTbe  ifrancte  Xetters  633 

Mr.  Choly.  dined  here  quite  unexpectedly — William 
Adeane  and  Count  Pahlen  a  very  agreeable  young 
man.  .  .  . 

"  Ever  yours 

"C.  F." 

On  the  subject  of  the  previous  letter  Eliza  Francis 
writes  : — 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

".  .  .  It  is  impossible  to  say  how  much  this  result 
pleases  me.  Thank  God  there  is  an  end  to  our 
Apprehensions  of  your  Father's  being  altogether 
neglected.  As  to  the  Government  of  the  Cape  it 
would  indeed  be  hard  after  all  he  has  done,  to  quit 
his  Country  for  any  object  but  the  gratification  he 
might  have  had  in  going  to  India.  Sincerely  do  I 
rejoice  that  he  has  however  now  ground  enough  upon 
which  to  ask  for  an  equivalent,  and  I  trust  he  will 
obtain  that  which  we  have  so  often  wish'd,  an  addition 
of  fortune  and  honour  quite  sufficient  to  give  a  little 
Animation  and  Spirit  to  the  long  uniform  course  of 
life,  and  that,  with  the  completely  maintaining  his 
political  dignity  is  I  think  all  that  in  our  most  sanguine 
moments  we  could  have  hoped  for." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER. 

"  1 6  August,  1806. 

"  So  I  dined  yesterday  by  special  Invitation  with 
our  friends  in  Charles  St.  as  happily  as  possible,  a 
very  good  dinner,  and  all  the  old  Cordiality  and 
Confidence.  About  tea  I  withdrew  to  Madame 
GerelstofFs  at  her  own  desire ;  and  while  we  were 


634  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1806 

at  Cards,  who  should  come  in  but,  lo  !  and  behold, 
our  own  two  Koffs  l ; — and  we  were  all  mightily  re- 
joiced at  meeting  as  well  as  grieved  at  parting ;  and 
it  is  not  impossible  that  I  may  dine  at  Woodlands 
next  Tuesday. — This  day  I  go  to  Strawberry  hill 
as  you  will  perceive  by  the  inclosed  and  there  I  shall 
stay  till  Monday.  Mr.  Fox's  recovery  is  insisted  on.  3 
The  prospect  abroad  tremendously  gloomy.  So  say 
the  Stocks  at  least.  Omnium  yesterday  at  55.  My 
own  Motions  are  not  determined  but  hope  to  be  off 
on  or  before  Thursday. 

"  Love  to  all  it  concerns. 

"  I  wish  Mary  would  tell  me  all  she  knows  about 
her  assessed  Taxes  for  the  year  ending  at  Lady  day 
1806 — She  is  charged  for  Horses  which  she  never 
kept  as  far  as  I  know.  I  conclude  she  never  made  a 
return.  I  must  write  to  the  Commissioners  on 
Monday ;  so  she  must  write  tomorrow,  pray  make 
her —  .  .  .  does  she  wear  hair  powder  or  does  she 
pay  for  her  servants  wearing  it." 

CATHERINE  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON. 

41  WOODLANDS,  BLACKHEATH, 
"  Monday,  lyth. 

"  DEAREST  MARIE, 

"  . .  .  Phil  will  tell  you  that  when  he  last  heard 
of  me  I  was  waiting  in  St.  James's  Square  expecting 
Julia  [Sabloukoffs]  to  convey  me  here,  she  arrived  at 
2  o'clock  in  her  Curricle  with  Miss  Lock,  &  we  pro- 
ceeded home  immediately,  found  a  large  party  consisting 
of  all  the  Locks,  two  foreigners,  Mr.  Moore,  Mr. 

1  Sabloukoffs. 

2  Hopes  which  were  unhappily  not  fulfilled. 


CATHERINE, 

YOUNGEST    DAUGHTKR    OF    SIR    PHILIP    FRANCIS,    SECOND    WIFE    OF 
GEORGE    JAMES    CHOLMONDELEY. 


Page  635.] 


i8o6]  Ube  jftancis  Xetters  635 

Lawrence1  and  the  Family  party  making  14  in  all,  we 
are  very  gay,  dine  at  six  &  the  evening  is  passed  in 
music  and  cards.     Mrs.  W.  L.  is  more  beautiful  than 
ever.     Mrs.   J.   A.    cannot   be   anything   that   is   not 
elegant,  but  she  is  looking  most   sadly  thin  &  pale. 
.   .   .   Yesterday  after  church  the  Princess  of  Wales 
came  here,  the  family  were  prepared  to  receive  her 
and  I  had  my  option  of  being  present  or  not  which 
of  course  was  to  gratify  my  curiosity  tho'   I  had  no 
idea  that  it  would  be  as  highly  as    it   proved ;    after 
some  conversation,  which  I  must    own    flagged    now 
&   then    we   had   a   hot   and    cold    Collation,    &   the 
subject  of  music  being  started  her  R.H.  said  that  she 
had  heard  how  well  I  sang,  this  was  followed  by  her 
asking  me.     I   was  much    frightened    but    there    was 
no  possibility  of  refusing  ;  after  my  performance  about 
which    she    was    very    good   humoured    Mrs.    W.    & 
Miss  L.  sung  and  then  her  R.H.  was  so  gracious  as 
to  join  us.     I  believe  it    is  forbidden    to    say  that   a 
Pr.   does  anything   ill  but  it  would  be  too  false  if  I 
said  that  she  sung  as  if  she  had  ever  received  the  least 
instruction ;   after  a  Quartetto  we   sang  Pandolfetto, 
the    P.    taking    the    second,    you    will    allow    that    it 
is  curious  that  I  should  have  sung  a  Duet  both  with 
my    future    K.    &    Q.      Would    any    one   guess   that 
little  insignificant  me  could  ever  be  so  honoured  ?  So 
it  is  and  I  lose    no   time    in    informing    you    of  this 
event,   she  is  a  very  pretty  woman  &  if  she  was  in 
any  other  situation  than  that  fate  has  placed  her   in 
I    should   think   she  was  formed   to   please  the  only 
person  who  cannot  like   her,  her   manners   are   very 
1  Afterwards  Sir  Thomas  Lawrence, 


636  zrbe  jfrancfs  ^Letters  [1806 

cheerful  but  not  without  dignity  &  if  it  is  possible 
to  judge  in  so  short  a  time  I  should  say  she  was 
certainly  clever,  but  I  think  I  may  decide  that  she 
is  extremely  good-natured.  To-day  almost  all  the 
party  dine  with  her  R.H.  I  should  not  have  been 
sorry  had  she  been  so  gracious  as  to  ask  me  but 
they  tell  me  there  is  nothing  to  regret  for  that  it 
will  be  very  dull.  .  .  . 

11  Believe  me  Ever  most  Truly 

"Yr  Faithful, 
"  CATTY." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"9  October,  1806. 

"  DEAR  CATHERINE, 

"  All  I  have  to  tell  you  is  that  I  dined  at 
Holland  house  on  Friday  last,  with  Fitzpatrick, 
Tierney  &c.  The  last  &  I  are  better  friends  than 
ever,  &  he  behaves  very  well.  I  have  just  received 
a  Letter  from  Lord  Spencer,  to  inform  me  '  That 
the  King  having  been  graciously  pleased  to  signify 
his  royal  Intention  of  investing  me  with  the  most 
Honourable  Order  of  the  Bath,  on  Wednesday  the 
29th  inst.,  it  is  His  Majesty's  Pleasure  that  I  should 
attend  on  that  day  at  the  Queen's  Palace  at  two  o'Clock.' 

l<  Now,  if  you  see  Lord  Henley,  I  wish  you  to  tell 
him  this  Secret,  with  my  Compliments,  &  my  request 
that  he  would  attend  on  that  day  to  help  to  constitute 
a  Chapter,  as  there  is  a  great  Scarcity  of  Knights  in 
London.  With  love  to  all,  and  singular,  and  many 
Kisses  to  little  Kitty  on  her  Birthday,  I  remain, 

"  Yours  dutifully, 

"P.  F. 


1806]  ttbe  jfrancte  Xetters  637 

"  I  have  just  made  a  strict  Friendship  with  Lady 
Winchester,  who  has  been  here  with  her  eldest  Son, 
and  taken  Sally  out  with  her  in  an  open  Carriage. 
Yesterday  I  had  the  Honour  of  a  Conference  with 
the  Prince,  who  has  been  very  ill  indeed,  but  now 
much  relieved.  Nothing  could  be  more  kind  and 
cordial.  He  returns  to  the  North  on  Sunday." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  HIS  DAUGHTERS. 

"  BRIGHTON, 

"  DEAR  CHILDREN,  "27*  Novr-  I8o6« 

"  At  nine  last  night  I  found  myself  in 
a  most  comfortable  room  at  Reigate,  and  soon 
after  in  an  Excellent  Bed,  where  I  slept  soundly  till 
seven  ;  then  breakfasted  with  Malvina,  and  arrived 
here  at  two  :  the  sun  was  positively  hot ;  so  I  need 
not  say  more  about  the  weather.  Mrs.  Fptzherbert] 
was  one  of  the  first  persons  I  saw.  Her  joy  to  see 
me  was  sincere  and  avowed  in  the  warmest  terms. 
H.R.H.  equally  kind,  and  I  believe  well  pleased. 
Mr.  Yarrow  and  I  are  lodged  upstairs  in  the  Pavillion, 
and  here,  I  suspect,  I  shall  be  resident,  as  long  as  the 
Prince  stays.  He  has  evidently  lost  flesh  in  the  Body, 
which  he  could  well  enough  spare ;  but  I  do  assure 
you  he  does  not  look  ill  in  the  face.  On  that  point,  as 
I  had  not  seen  him  for  several  Weeks,  I  was  a  better 
Judge  than  those  who  see  him  every  day.  The 
malady,  if  any,  is  in  his  mind  ;  and  I  hope  I  shall 
contribute,  in  some  little  degree,  to  remove  it.  At 
all  events,  I  shall  do  my  best.  I  would  wish  you 
to  read  this  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  M[acmahon]  and  tell 
him  I  have  perceived  already,  and  indeed  immediately 
that  he  was  quite  right  in  everything  he  suggested. 


638  trbe  fftancis  Xetters  [1806 

"  Mrs.  Creevy  has  got  an  incomparable  house,  at 
the  Back  of  the  South  Parade. 

"  Yours, 

"  P.  F." 

MATILDA  GUNN  TO  SARAH  FRANCIS. 

"  RAMSGATE, 
"  December  2nd,  1806. 

"  DEAR  Miss  FRANCIS, 

"  .  .  .  This  place  has  been  so  gay  the  last 
three  months  we  have  not  had  a  moment  to  breathe, 
for  some  time  it  was  as  bad  as  London,  five  Balls  a 
Week  and  a  Concert  on  Saturday,  as  they  would  not 
dance  of  a  Sunday  morning.  We  brought  the  Irish 
custom  of  suppers  into  fashion,  and  every  one  gave 
suppers  that  they  might  hear  us  sing  after,  for  last 
year  they  only  gave  tea  and  turn  out.  The  society 
was  of  the  first  fashion,  and  to  my  joy  of  the  Amiable 
part  of  the  Creation,  so  that  we  lived  with  the  most 
charming  people.  The  Mansfields,  the  great  delight 
of  Ramsgate  and  our  particular  friends,  went  yesterday, 
and  as  all  our  Beaux  are  gone  and  the  Ladies  going, 
we  shall  now  get  snug  over  our  firesides,  for  I  will 
not  go  to  Petticoat  Parties.  .  .  .  We  have  been  as 
usual  spoiled  this  season,  as  nothing  could  be  done 
without  us,  and  all  the  Ladies  to  our  joy  were  par- 
ticularly kind  to  us.  ...  Our  Beaux  were  chiefly 
Irish,  and  very  agreeable,  most  of  them  too  poor 
to  think  of  Hymen  who  has  been  shamefully  idle 
amongst  so  many  fair  Ladies.  We  had  two  agreeable 
Charioteers,  Mr.  Burke  and  Mr.  Bagot  who  drove  the 
Ladies  in  Barouches  and  four,  so  we  had  many 
pleasant  parties  to  Dover  &c.,  in  short  I  never  liked 


1806]  Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  639 

a  place  better,  not  even  Weymouth,  which  I  shall 
always  love.  As  they  say  the  Postscript  has  always 
the  chief  part  of  the  letter  I  must  now  request  a 
great  favor,  which  is  that  you  will  be  so  good  as  to 
let  us  know  immediately,  the  result  of  your  good 
intentions  for  us  with  an  Illustrious  Personage,  as 
we  have  heard  lately  of  some  more  lies  told  in  that 
quarter.  Pray  tell  us  all  about  him,  where  Mrs. 
Fitz  is  and  all  the  news  you  can  collect,  Mamma 
is  particularly  anxious  to  hear  what  was  said  or 
done  by  Mrs.  Macmahon  so  pray  answer  this  soon, 
as  Papa  will  be  away  but  a  week  and  we  don't  wish 
him  to  know  anything  about  it,  and  he  is  very  curious 
to  read  Ladies  Epistles.  Pray  write  immediately.  .  .  . 
Adieu  dear  Miss  Francis  and  Believe  me  ever 
"  Your  affectionate  friend, 

"  MATILDA  GUNN." 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  THE  YOUNGER,  TO  CATHERINE 
FRANCIS. 

"  T  [UNBRIDGE]  WELLS, 
"  \yth  Jany.,  1807. 

"  MY  DEAR  CATY, 

"  Much  as  I  have  suffered  from  my  swelled 
face,  ...  I  have  been  more  irritated  by  the  beggarly 
Order  in  Council  upon  the  subject  of  Buonaparte's 
Decree  of  Blockade  of  the  British  Isles — After  having 
set  forth  such  an  aggression  on  public  right  as 
is  therein  described,  to  conclude  with  such  a  base, 
sneaking  cowardly  measure  of  vengeance,  bespeaks  a 
total  want  of  the  common  spirit  of  men.  I  will  not 
say  of  the  vigour  of  statesmen.  It  is  incredible  that 
such  men  as  Mr.  Windham  and  Lord  Howick  could 


64o  Ube  ifrancte  Xetters  [1807 

set  their  hands  to  such  an  instrument — How  long  are 
these  accursed  French  to  insult  such  a  power  as 
England  with  impunity,  or  are  our  Ministers  only 
to  be  kicked  and  buffetted  into  courage !  They  have 
taken  care  we  shan't  know  the  terms  of  their  Con- 
vention with  America  until  after  the  Ratification, 
because  if  we  had  they  would  not  have  dared  to 
ratify  it — My  life  on't  it  is  nothing  but  a  Treaty 
of  Concession  of  the  Power,  Honor,  Dignity  of 
England  to  those  vile  slaves  and  Tributaries  of 
Buonaparte,  the  Americans.  —  I  have  read  the 
Pamphlet  '  War  as  it  is  and  War  as  it  should  be ' 
and  tho'  I  have  no  recollection  of  the  fact,  begin  to 
think  I  wrote  it  myself — so  exactly  does  it  set  forth 
all  my  principles  upon  the  subject — However  this 
be,  it  certainly  contains  my  political  creed — I  am 
ready  to  be  taxed  and  to  fight  by  it,  and  I  call  upon 
whatever  remains  of  spirit  or  wisdom  in  the  country 
to  adopt  it,  and  to  force  our  pusillanimous  Ministers 
to  adopt  it  and  act  upon  it.  I  am  forgetting  all  this 
time  that  you  are  not  likely  to  know  anything  whatever 
of  these  subjects  upon  which  I  rave  as  if  angry  with 
you — But  ill  as  I  am  I  must  vent  my  rage.  Sir 
Philip  will  explain  it  to  you. 

"  Your  own  brother 

"  PHILIP." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  MAIDSTONE,  IN  MY  WAY  TO  TUNBRIDGE  WELLS, 
"  22  Septr.,  1807. 

"  DEAR  CATE, 

"  I    shall    be    very    glad    to    see    you    on 
Thursday.      From   the  mysterious   Language  of  the 


1807]  ttfoe  ifrancte  Xetters  641 

inclosed,  I  collect  that  it  is  not  impossible  that  Sally 
may  be  actually  on  her  way  to  town.  You  need  not 
bring  the  Juvenal,  nor  the  Maratta  Speech  ;  but  be 
sure  to  bring  a  parcel  of  books  which  have  been  left 
by  Dubois.  Tell  Philip  that  I  expect  to  see  England 
excommunicated  by  a  unanimous  Resolution  of  all  the 
rest  of  Europe.  We  shall  then  be  a  Nation  or  a  Nest 
of  Pirates,  and  in  that  State,  a  year  or  two  we  may 
exist.  For  my  part,  I  wish  we  were  all  safe  in 
Kentucky. 

"  P.  F." 

CAROLINE  FITZGERALD  TO  SARAH  FRANCIS. 

"HAMPTON  COURT  PALACE, 
"Oct.  i,  1807. 

"  .  .  .  I  suppose  you  will  not  remain  much  longer 
at  Tunbridge.  The  weather  is  growing  so  cold.  The 
Thistlethwaytes  are  expected  on  Thursday  and  then  I 
shall  hope  to  hear  that  your  visit  is  fixed.  ...  As 
you  are  in  the  habit  of  shutting  out  the  light,  I  trust 
you  will  not  be  horror  struck  at  our  dark  rooms,  as 
some  of  our  friends  are  on  first  seeing  them.  I 
have  often  observed  them  putting  on  such  com- 
miserating looks  that  it  has  diverted  me  extremely. 
I  had  a  long  letter  from  la  Belle  *  yesterday  and  a  very 
entertaining  one,  it  was  filled  with  Tunbridge  news  ; 
it  seems  our  departure  was  a  signal  for  universal  joy, 
as  the  place  has  been  all  gaiety  and  amusement  ever 
since.  I  am  very  glad  of  it  for  the  sake  of  some  who 
were  fast  sinking  into  a  state  of  hopeless  despondency. 
The  anecdote  you  mention  of  our  handsome  favorite 
amused  me  very  much,  it  is  so  characteristic  of  the 
1  Miss  Emma  Watkins. 


642  Ube  ffrancte  Xetters  [1807 

name  of  Eden,  and  I  believe  of  his  family  in  particular, 
it  is  surprising  that  so  young  a  man  should  have 
imbibed  such  just  notions  of  the  politics  of  his  house, 
I  wish  he  may  be  equally  correct  in  attaining  the 
character  he  is  aiming  at  and  remember  your  dis- 
tinction between  a  fine  man  and  a  fine  gentleman.  A 
propos  of  a  fine  gentleman,  I  saw  a  most  perfect  one 
yesterday,  and  I  think  if  you  know  him  you  will  agree 
with  me.  I  went  with  a  Mrs.  Lisle  to  see  a  house 
that  is  to  be  sold  a  few  miles  from  hence,  belonging 
as  we  were  told  to  a  Colonel  Dillon,  we  expected  to 
find  it  empty,  but  the  family  were  still  in  it,  and  while 
we  waited  till  the  horses  were  rested,  the  door  opened 
and  a  very  elegant  and  still  handsome  man  entered 
who,  in  the  master  of  the  house,  proved  to  be  no  other 
than  le  beau  Dillon  of  whom  one  has  always  heard  so 
much.  I  never  saw  anyone  more  perfectly  well  bred 
or  with  a  more  refined  and  fascinating  manner.  I  can 
easily  imagine  that  he  must  have  been  very  captivating 
— I  like  the  answer  he  made  to  an  indiscreet  woman 
who  asked  him  if  he  was  related  to  le  beau  Dillon,  the 
favorite  of  the  Queen  of  France  ?  upon  which  he  said, 
'  Oh !  no  Madame,  he  is  long  since  dead.'  .  .  . 
Ever  my  dear  Miss  Francis  your  most  affecate. 

"  CAROLINE  F.  G." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

{Apparently  from  BERKELEY  CASTLE], 
"  Tuesday  Morning,  10  Nov.,  1807. 

"  OWN  DEAR  CATHERINE, 

"  I  arrived  yesterday  between  three  and  four, 
and  from  all  that  I  have  observed  and  experienced,  I 


1807]  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  643 

am  already  convinced  that  I  died  last  night  and  am 
actually  in  heaven.  All  that  you  ever  read  in  History 
or  romance  is  mere  folly,  the  black  veil  and  the  Castle 
of  Udolpho  a  dull  fiction  compared  to  the  realities  of 
this  inchanted  Mansion — Among  many  Singularities, 
here  is  one  of  the  younger  Berkeley  boys,  who  plays 
like  a  fallen  Angel  on  the  Organ.  All  night  he 
possest  me  with  the  Minuet  in  Ariadne — Love  to 
Mary  and  little  ones  ;  .  .  .  and  so  farewell, 

"  Yours 

"P.  F. 

"  I    have    had    no   time   yet   to    visit   the   deadly 
chamber  of  which  you  shall  hear  more." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

"  BERKELEY  CASTLE, 
"9  in  morning,  Nov.  n,   1807. 

"  DEAR  MADAM, 

"  Your  anxiety  to  know  something  of  this 
place  is  very  laudable  and  fit  to  be  gratified.  So  in 
strict  confidence,  I  can  assure  you  that  all  the  ancient 
ladies  you  have  seen  at  the  Wells  and  their  grand- 
mothers, if  they  had  any,  are  mere  modern  babies  and 
infants  compared  to  the  antiquities  of  both  sexes  with 
whom  I  made  an  acquaintance  yesterday.  You  must 
know  it  rained  all  day,  and  I  should  have  been 
drowned  but  that  the  room  I  live  in  (last  occupied  by 
King  Stephen)  is  two  hundred  feet  above  the  level  of 
the  Severn,  and  the  walls  twelve  feet  thick.  The 
crows,  who  dwelt  under  me,  were  all  washed  away. 

"  My  bed  is  of  solid  oak,  proportioned  to  the  walls. 
The  tester  is  of  ebony,  carved  and  gilt  in  the  Saxon 


644  Ubc  jftancis  Xetters  [1807 

fashion.  The  whole  apartment  had  been  neglected 
since  the  time  of  King  Harold,  but  was  repaired  and 
beautified  for  the  reception  of  William  Rufus,  since 
which  it  was  occupied  for  a  few  days  by  King 
Stephen,  and  by  no  other  person  until  I  came  and 
took  possession  of  it  on  Monday  last.  All  the 
windows  are  painted  with  the  arms  of  the  family, 
some  saints,  and  many  dragons ;  with  which,  indeed, 
the  ceilings  are  pretty  well  covered  ;  to  say  nothing 
of  swords  and  helmets  that  were  taken  from  the  Danes 
by  Alfred  the  Great.  All  this  however,  is  nothing 
compared  with  what  I  saw  in  a  certain  chamber  that 
must  be  nameless  ;  I  thought  I  heard  the  groans  of  an 
agonising  king.  I  lifted  up  a  black  veil,  spotted  with 
blood  ;  but  I  dropped  it  instantly,  and  dare  not  tell 
you  what  I  saw.  My  guide  dropped  his  candle  too, 
and  ran  away.  Confess  that  it  requires  a  very  good 
conscience  to  be  able  to  sleep  in  such  company.  I 
do  not  think  it  possible  to  make  my  escape  without 
seeing  an  apparition. 

"  You  may,  if  you  think  fit,  communicate  these 
particulars  to  Mrs.  Turner,  who  I  presume,  is  no 
enemy  to  old  times  and  ancient  fashions  ;  but  not  to 
such  giddy  persons  as  your  two  cousins.  There  are 
many  ways  of  taking  leave.  The  shortest  is  the  best ; 
and  so,  dear  madam,  I  remain  most  abruptly  yours, 

-P.  F." 

CAROLINE  FITZGERALD  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"HAMPTON  COURT, 
"Nov.  14,  1807. 

"  .  .  .  I  was  at  the  Toy  Ball  the  night  before  last, 
when  I  saw  your  friends  the  Miss  Gunns,  the  eldest 


Ube  jfrancte  Xetters  645 

dances  beautifully,  so  light  she  scarcely  seems  to  touch 
the  ground,  her  feet  are  perfect — She  and  her  sister 
danced  a  reel  with  two  officers,  remarkably  good 
dancers,  which  was  one  of  the  prettiest  things  I  ever 
saw.  It  was  rather  a  more  brilliant  ball  than  those 
we  were  at  together  at  Tunbridge,  for  we  had  a 
number  of  men,  a  capital  supper  and  we  danced  till 
five  o'clock  in  the  morning.  My  mother  desires  her 
love  and  joins  with  me  in  anxious  wishes  for  your 
speedy  recovery, 

"  Believe  me  ever  my  dear  Miss  Francis 
"  Your  affectionate  and  obliged 

"  CAROLINE  Frrz.G." 

MARY  JOHNSON,  FROM  TUNBRIDGE  WELLS,  TO  HER 

SISTERS. 

"  MOUNT  EPHRAIM, 
"Ftiday,  2nd  Dec. ,  1807. 

"  MY  DEAR  SISTERS, 

"  .  .  .  As  I  could -not  possibly  dine  out  my 
Father  goes.  He  is  perfectly  well  and  in  excellent 
spirits,  he  has  been  remarkably  kind  and  agreeable, 
we  shall  be  extremely  sorry  to  part  with  him  on 
Monday,  which  day  he  has  fixed  to  leave  us  and 
return  to  St.  James's  Square.  I  think  our  Papa 
has  passed  his  time  cheerfully  enough  here,  for  all 
the  old  and  young  Ladies  have  been  equally  delighted 
to  see  him  again,  and  he  has  an  engagement  and  his 
Whist  every  evening." 

Mrs.  Johnson  had  taken  a  house  at  Tunbridge 
Wells,  and  her  father  occasionally  stayed  with  her 
there. 

VOL.  n.  20 


646  zrbe  jfrancte  Xettere  [1807 

KATHERINE  JOHNSON  (MARY'S  DAUGHTER)  TO  SARAH 

FRANCIS. 

"MOUNT  EPHRAIM,  TUNBRIDGE  WELLS, 
41  Wednesday,  2nd  Deer.,  1807. 

"  My  DEAR  SALINE, 

" .  .  .  The  weather  has  been  milder  for 
the  last  2  or  3  days  and  Mamma  and  I  have 
ventured  our  persons  into  the  open  air  which  with 
gentle  exercise  has  greatly  revived  our  spirits.  She 
is  this  evening  going  to  join  the  ancient  Ladies 
select  party,  from  which  all  gentlemen  and  indeed 
everything  like  a  man  is  excluded.  This  is  Mrs. 
Highdigger's  night. 

"God    bless    you    my   dearest   Aunt    Sally,   your 
affectionate, 

"  KATE." 

From  this  time  forward  the  letters  become  much 
less  frequent. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  WORTHING, 
"4//&/«#/,  1808. 

"  MY  DEAR  CATY, 

"  .  .  .  The  Prospect  of  affairs  in  Spain  is 
highly  favorable  and  now  that  our  Ministers  have 
declared  themselves  is  I  think  likely  to  continue  so. — 
Eliza  will  have  told  you  what  a  patriot  I  am — a 
Spanish  Patriot  I  mean.  An  opportunity  is  at  length 
arrived  for  checking  the  Career  of  Buonaparte  ; 
perhaps  (for  surely  he  will  die  of  rage  should  the 
Spaniards  resist  him  successfully)  for  getting  rid 
of  him  altogether,  and  with  him  of  War  and  Taxation, 


i8os]  t£be  jfrancis  Xettets  647 

which  can  never  end  while  he  lives. — The  divine 
Atmosphere  and  sea  of  this  place  is  indescribable — 
all  the  stories  we  have  heard  about  it  nonsense — It 
has  but  one  fault,  and  that  is  a  serious  one,  it  is 
very  dear — I  hope  Sir  Philip  is  hearty  in  the  Spanish 
cause — that  is  that  he  thinks  it  will  be  triumphant — 
It  is  not  enough  to  wish  it — Favorable  opinions 
are  upon  such  occasions  a  greater  encouragement 
than  favorable  wishes — What  base  nonsense  his 
Grace  of  Norfolk  talked  the  other  day — Lord 
Hawkesbury  had  half  a  mind  to  take  him  at  his 
word,  but  for  the  rebuke  of  Lord  Holland — The 
Cadiz  news  however  has  raised  their  courage,  and 
they  have  promised  to  do  the  thing  handsomely. 
Perhaps  they  may,  but  I  wish  Lord  Holland  had 
the  management  of  it — He  feels  the  thing  as  it 
ought  to  be  felt — I  suppose  Lord  Holland  is  in 
possession  of  the  originals  of  those  noble  Declarations 
— I  would  give  much  to  see  them  in  their  native 
Spanish — I  have  been  working  this  week  past  by 
correspondence  with  my  friends  to  raise  the  pulse 
of  the  Public  in  this  most  glorious,  most  interesting 
cause — but  the  near  hope  of  getting  a  few  ships  has  I 
see  more  effect  with  this  base  trafficking  nation,  than 
any  arguments  founded  upon  national  honour  and  the 
true  interests  of  the  Country. — Dixi,  Your  own  Brother 

"  PHILIP." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"  Dec.,  1808. 

"  Many   thanks   for   your    Letter  of  yesterday.     I 
understand  that  fair  Lady  just  as  well  as  you  do,  and 


648  Ube  ifvancte  Xetters  [1808 

care  not  at  all  what  she  means.  The  weather  and 
mode  of  living  in  this  Country  are  so  much  to  my 
mind,  and  at  all  events  so  much  better  than  the 
Square,  that  I  think  I  shall  stay  here  at  least  a  week 
longer.  They  talk  of  visiting  London  in  about  ten 
days,  if  so,  I  shall  stay  for  them,  and  perhaps  return 
with  them  again.  So  you  see  I  am  in  favour.  .  .  . 
A  la  fin,  ma  Victoire  est  complete  et  reconnu.  Miladi 
nose  pas  souffler.  Au  reste  il  faut  avouer  qw  notre 
train  de  vie  est  suptrieurement  uniforme.  Yesterday 
we  had  three  Strangers,  or  Natives,  and  a  feast  ;  and 
I  was  glad  when  they  were  gone.  ...  It  signifies 
very  little,  who  is  in  or  who  goes  out ;  P  affaire  est 
finie.  So  we  must  look  to  our  navy  and  think  of 
nothing  else.  As  to  our  once  fine  Army  in  Spain,  I 
would  give  a  thousand  pounds,  out  of  anybody's 
pocket,  to  have  it  back  again.  ...  I  cannot  see  how 
it  is  possible  that  Sir  H[ew]  D[alrymple]  can  be  in 
any  danger  ;  tho'  I  doubt  not  the  Ministry  will  do  all 

they  can  to  sacrifice  him  to  Sir  Ar . 

"  so  with  love  to  all,  I  remain 

"  Yours  to  Command 

"P.  F." 

Shortly  after  the  death  of  Sir  Philip's  first  wife, 
in  1806,  he  made  the  acquaintance,  at  Lady  Bayne's 
at  Tunbridge  Wells,  of  Miss  Emma  Watkins,  the 
daughter  of  a  Yorkshire  clergyman.  A  few  years 
later  they  became  engaged,  and  were  married  in  1814. 
She  was  more  than  forty  years  the  younger  of  the  two. 
During  their  engagement  he  kept  up  a  voluminous 
correspondence  with  her.  His  letters  were  half  in 


jfrancis  Xetterg  649 

English  and  half  in  French.  These,  which  were 
mostly  of  a  trivial  nature,  he  insisted  on  her  destroying 
in  his  presence  ;  but  she  managed  to  make  copies  of 
a  good  many  without  his  finding  it  out,  and  amongst 
these  in  her  writing  are  a  few  written  from  Brighton 
or  London.  In  an  undated  letter  he  writes  thus  to 


"...  Perhaps  you  would  rather  hear  all  the  secrets 
of  the  prison-house  for  you  know  I  shall  steal  away  an 
hour  or  two  every  day  to  commune  with  my  own  heart 
in  my  chamber,  aye,  if  it  were  Paradise  and  the 
company  of  young  Houris.  As  for  you  no  pen 
would  you  take  into  your  pretty  fist  for  the  sake  of  my 
beaux  yeux,  but  to  go  vapouring  about  with  my  poor 
innocent  letters  among  your  cronies.  '  I  have  heard 
so  and  so  from  Ragley  '  or  '  my  correspondents  at  the 
Pavn  tell  me.'  Then  how  you  despise  the  newspapers. 
'  Ah  !  that's  what  the  papers  say  but  I  could  tell  a  very 
different  story.'  But  I  will  be  revenged  for  such 
infidelity.  I  will  have  an  auto  da  Fe  made  of  them 
in  my  presence.  As  for  those  whose  lives  you  saved 
to  console  you  when  I  am  gathered  to  my  fathers 
nous  verrons." 

Most  of  Sir  Philip's  letters  to  Miss  Watkins  are 
undated,  but  they  were  written  between  the  years 
1809  and  1814. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"  ALDEBURGH, 

-MY  DEAR  SIR,  "22^^,1809. 

"  .  .  .  We  were  under  great  anxiety  for  the 
Gazette    Returns   of  the    Battle   of  Talavera  ;    But, 


650  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1809 

black  as  they  were  for  so  many  families,  Ralph  [John- 
son] was  not  among  the  sufferers.  Tho'  in  the  thick 
of  the  fighting  the  whole  time  he  escaped  untouched — 
Godschall  has  sent  us  an  account  of  a  letter  he  has 
received  from  him  dated  3ist  July,  3  days  after  the 
battle.  The  relation  he  gives  of  the  business  is 
curious,  and  serves  to  explain  the  strange  dispatches 
of  Sir  Arthur.  Perhaps  you  may  not  have  heard  any- 
thing as  particular  on  the  subject.  On  the  23rd  the 
Spaniards  had  an  opportunity  of  totally  destroying  a 
body  of  8  squadrons  of  the  French  Cavalry  in  a  large 
plain ;  but  did  not  dare,  nor  could  be  induced  by  any 
representations  of  the  English  commanders  to  attack 
them,  though  the  Spanish  cavalry  consisted  of  as  many 
thousands — Upon  another  occasion  they  could  not  be 
persuaded  to  advance  against  a  small  column  of  In- 
fantry (only  3,000)  but  contented  themselves  with 
cannonading  them  out  of  shot.  In  the  afternoon  of 
the  23rd  it  was  ascertained  that  the  French  Army  was 
only  21,000,  the  combined  being  66,000.  Sir  A, 
wished  to  concert  a  plan  of  attack  on  them  with 
Cuesta,  and  requested  a  meeting  with  him  to  arrange 
it  at  6  the  next  morning  ;  but  the  General  was  not  up, 
and  no  one  dared  to  wake  him  to  keep  the  appoint- 
ment. He  did  not  come  to  the  Council  of  War  till  10, 
and  soon  fell  asleep  at  it — A  Plan  of  attack  was 
arranged  with  his  2nd  in  command,  during  the 
slumbers  of  the  Commander  in  chief — But,  when 
the  plan  agreed  upon  was  actually  putting  in  execu- 
tion, and  had  in  part  been  executed  by  our  Troops, 
the  Spaniards  refused  to  advance  to  execute  their  part 
— The  next  day  the  whole  British  Army,  indignant  at 


1809]  ftfoe  jfrancte  Xetters  651 

the  conduct  of  the  Spaniards,  set  out  to  attack  the 
French  alone,  but  found  they  had  retreated  during 
the  night — Ralph  swears  that,  if  the  Spaniards  had 
advanced,  the  French  Army  was  annihilated  —  In 
the  course  of  the  next  two  days,  the  French  were 
re-inforced  by  30,000  men,  and  thus  re-inforced  they, 
as  we  know,  became  the  Assailants — Ralph  says  that, 
during  the  whole  of  the  27th  and  28th,  there  was 
nothing  for  the  Cavalry  to  eat  or  drink,  not  even  for 
the  horses,  and  that  our  Commissaries  instead  of 
endeavouring  to  provide  for  the  want  of  the  Army, 
all  ran  away  in  a  fright.  He  says  that  on  the  morn- 
ing of  the  29th,  they  were  all  prepared  for  an  order  to 
retreat,  so  severe  had  been  our  loss  (inter  alia  13 
Lieutenant  Cols,  and  25  Majors  killed,  besides 
Captains,  Lieuts.  &c.)  and  so  deplorable  their  situa- 
tion as  to  provisions,  when,  to  their  astonishment, 
they  found  the  French  Army  had  themselves  retreated. 
— He  says  they  are  but  3  days  march  from 
Madrid,  but  wait  for  a  supply  to  enable  them  to 
move. — He  says  'Our  force  was  19,000  to  at  least 
50,000,  the  Spaniards  did  nothing,  though  I  have  no 
doubt  Sir  A.'s  situation  will  induce  him  to  say  every- 
thing he  can  in  their  favour.'  The  23rd  Dragoons 
are  cut  to  shivers,  only  120  men  left — N.B.  The 
Spanish  Army  was  46,000 — Gallant  Allies  we  have 
got.  For  once  I  am  not  inclined  to  blame  Sir  Arthur. 
Here  he  could  not  avoid  fighting  and  he  fought  well 
for  his  life.  He  could  not  be  prepared  for  such 
outrageous  cowardice  on  the  part  of  the  Spaniards. 

"  My  respects  to  My  Lord  and  Milady 

«  p    p  " 


652  Ube  jftancfs  Xetters  [1809 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"  HOTHFIELD, 

"25/A  Aug.  1809. 

"  DEAR  PHILIP, 

"  The  Spanish  part  of  your  Letter  appeared 
to  me  so  curious  and  interesting  that  I  sent  it  to 
Colonel  Bloomfield  to  be  communicated  to  H.R.H. 
and  then  to  Lady  Downshire.  It  seems  to  me  out 
of  all  probability  that  Sir  A.  W.  should  advance  to 
Madrid  ;  and  I  for  one  shall  be  satisfied  to  hear  what 
I  fear  is  not  much  more  likely,  that  he  and  his  Army 
were  safe  and  well  at  Lisbon. 

"  My  love  to  Eliza,  who  cannot  be  better  employed 
than  in  fattening  herself  and  the  young  ones.  There 
is  no  saying  how  soon  you  may  have  occasion  to  eat 
them.  I  shall  go  to  Tunbridge  Wells  on  Sunday, 
and  next  day  to  Town,  in  my  way  to  Ragley,  on  an 
earnest  Invitation  of  long  Standing,  and  now  repeated 
from  the  Marchioness  of  Hertford,  to  meet  the  Prince. 
From  thence  we  are  to  emigrate  to  Lady  Downshire's 
at  Ombresley  and  then  I  suspect  to  Berkeley  Castle. 
If  I  die  before  November,  it  must  be  of  Turtle  and 
Venison. 

"P.  F." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS  AND 
MARY  JOHNSON. 

4  'RAGLEY, 

"8  Sept.,  1809. 

"Mr.  Godfrey  was  to  have  been  in  Town  on 
Monday,  and  ought  to  have  received  a  letter  from 
me,  on  that  day,  in  which  I  pressed  him  to  go  and 
live  with  you  at  Tunbridge  Wells ;  but  I  have  never 


1809]  zrbe  jfvancte  Xetters  653 

heard  of  him  since.  This  and  the  painful  account 
given  me  of  him  from  Col.  Macmahon,  makes  me  very 
uneasy.  He  had  repeated  fainting  fits  at  Cheltenham, 
and  complains  bitterly  of  the  bad  Effect  of  those 
Waters.  Macmahon  also  is  far  from  well,  he  came 
here  to  dinner  on  Sunday,  and  left  us  next  day,  in 
his  way  to  London  to  consult  Cline,  his  Spouse  has 
not  been  at  Ragley.  About  the  middle  of  this  month, 
we,  that  is  the  Prince  and  I,  and  the  Duke  of  Sussex, 
if  he  comes,  are  to  remove  to  Berkeley  Castle  ;  and 
from  thence  to  the  charmante  Marquise  at  Ombresley. 
So  why  should  we  trouble  our  heads  about  the  Down- 
fall of  England.  Poor  Ralph  is  not  out  of  the  Scrape, 
nor  any  of  them. 

"  I  should  like  to  know  (entre  nous)  whether  it  be 
true  that  Lady  Clermont  refused  to  see  Mrs.  F[itz- 
herbert],  who  went  there  on  purpose  to  see  her.  Miss 
Taylor  could  tell  you,  but  you  must  find  it  out  dex- 
terously. I  am  strangled  with  stuffing ;  and  so 
farewell  ;  La  Cainea  and  Naldi  are  singing  to  me 
perpetually.  Everything  they  utter  is  cantabile,  and 
each  of  them  assures  me  that  his  partner  snores  in 
recitative.  I  have  cured  Lord  Bob  Seymour  of  sundry 
hypochondriacal  affections  insomuch  that  he  is  quite 
gay  and  profligate  and  swears  he  never  desires  to  see 
his  Lady  any  more ;  at  least  in  this  world." 

FROM  THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  RAGLEY, 
"  loth  Sep.,  1809. 

' 'You  will  not  read  the  enclosed  without  an  uneasy 
Impression.  I  fear  he  [Godfrey]  is  worse  than  he 
says.  He  is  one  of  the  few  remaining  Links,  that 


654  Ube  ffrancte  Xetters  [1809 

bind  me  to  Life.  The  Prince  too  is  far  from  well, 
he  contends  with  his  disorder  and  does  all  he  can  to 
be  chearful.  With  that  Abatement  which  indeed  is 
material,  we  have  every  Enjoyment  here  that  the  most 
splendid  Mansion,  the  best  Company  and  unbounded 
Magnificence  can  furnish.  I  promise  you  that 
Wooburn  and  Chatsworth  are  only  a  second  table 
to  Ragley.  Our  next  move  will  be  to  Berkeley 
Castle,  where  I  suspect  that  great  Preparations  are 
making  to  receive  me,  or  somebody  else.  Our  In- 
telligence received  this  day  from  that  cursed  Walcheren 
is  calamitous  and  frightful,  and  at  last  I  believe  and 
hope  we  must  abandon  it,  9,000  Sick  !  now,  if  you 
have  a  guinea  or  two  left,  keep  them.  We  are  coming 
to  the  Dregs,  and  keep  up  your  spirits  too,  if  you  can. 
Despair  is  a  resource ;  or  it  creates  indifference. 

"  Have  we  not  Cainea  and  Naldi  to  sing  to  us !  let 
me  know  all  the  Histories  of  those  fountains,  and 
whether  Miss  Taylor  has  shewn  any  sign  of  life  lately. 

"  I  embrace  you  4. 

"P.  F." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"BERKELEY   CASTLE, 

"22  Septr.,  1809. 

"...  Some  change  among  the  higher  powers, 
has  broken  up  the  arrangements  for  the  remainder 
of  the  year. 

"  The  P.  will  not  come  hither  nor  go  to  Ombresley  ; 
and  Lady  Downshire  remains  in  town.  So,  when  I 
leave  this  I  shall  take  Lord  Suffolk  and  Cheltenham 
on  my  Way,  and  contrive  to  be  in  town  about  the 
Middle  of  the  Month  but  not  to  stay  there  so  don't 


1809]  ZTbe  jprancte  Xcttcts  655 

mind  me,  but  follow  your  own  plans.  Nothing  can  be 
more  agreeable  to  me  than  the  way  of  living  at  this 
Castle,  and  the  Lord  and  Lady  of  it  quite  to  my  mind. 

"  Love  to  Mary  and  the  young  ones,  write  directly 
and  tell  me  how  you  go  on.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Macmahon 
went  to  Margate.  The  Duke  of  Sussex  is  here,  a 
Victim  to  the  Asthma. 

"  I  try  to  shut  my  eyes  to  everything  but  Pastime. 

"  Yrs, 

"  P.  F." 

SIR   PHILIP   FRANCIS   TO   EMMA   WATKINS,    SHORTLY 

AFTER  THEY  WERE  ENGAGED. 

"  .  .  .  So  they  have  made  a  doleful  story  of  youth 
&  beauty  running  mad  for  a  Patriarch.  Do  dear  Baby 
tell  me  all  about  it,  and  how  it  happened  ;  and  how 
long  it  will  last.  May  I  be  suddenly  cut  off  in  the 
prime  of  life  and  in  the  flower  of  my  youth,  or  die 
in  my  cradle,  if  I  believe  one  word  of  what  they  said  : 
You  know  well  enough  who  I  mean  Sycorax  & 
Urgunda.  ...  It  was  all  spite  &  jealousy,  the  whole 
family  wanted  to  marry  me  out  of  hand,  but  I  was 
too  coy  for  them,  besides  I  was  pretty  well  watched 
by  a  person  who  was  overheard  saying  to  herself  *  I 
don't  care  a  farthing  for  him  myself,  but  may  I  lead 
apes  round  this  world  &  the  next,  if  either  of  those 
old  cats  shall  have  him.' ' 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

"  BERKELEY  CASTLE. 

"  DEAR  LADY  AND  HONOURED  MADAM 

"  The  post  to  this  Castle  comes   and   goes 
unaccountably,  just  like  the  humours  of  a  fine  Lady 


656  Ube  ffrancte  xetters  [1809 

— out  at  Breakfast,  &  in  at  Dinner.  .  .  .  To  make 
amends  for  your  trouble  in  writing  me  a  benevolent 
letter,  I  think  the  best  thing  I  can  do  is  to  give 
you  a  narrative  of  my  way  of  life.  .  .  .  The  history 
of  one  day  will  do  for  any  other — For  example  I 
am  wakened  every  morning  between  7  &  8  by  a 
beautiful  Damsel,  who  comes  to  light  my  Furnace 
(Nota  bene — a  Forest  falls  once  a  month  to  warm 
the  Castle),  her  conduct  in  life  has  been  exemplary 
for  which  her  face  is  a  security  &  would  be  received 
as  such  in  any  Court  of  Justice  ;  I  am  then  taken 
up,  washed  &  combed  in  time  to  run  round  the 
Castle  twice  before  breakfast  which  begins  at  9 
precisely.  This  meal  would  serve  for  a  dinner  any 
where  else  ;  but  I  am  not  a  carniverous  animal  before 
Dinner,  so  I  content  myself  with  Coffee,  Tea,  Cream, 
&  Cakes,  to  say  nothing  of  a  certain  farinaceous 
spunge  called  muffin,  delicately  roasted  &  undulating 
with  butter.  Reading  &  writing  carry  me  forward 
to  one,  when  I  mount  an  old  horse,  who  was  wounded 
at  the  Battle  of  Tewkesbury,  and  ride  till  I  am 
petrified  &  look  like  an  Icicle.  So  I  sleep  till 
Dinner  which  begins  at  six  &  ends  soon  after  eight, 
Coffee  &  Cakes  then  prepare  me  for  Tea  & 
Muffins,  after  which  I  seldom  touch  any  thing  but 
Egg  wine  &  a  few  biscuits,  except  now  &  then  a 
Sack  Posset  to  prevent  faintness  after  I  am  in  bed. 
Lord !  How  Louis  Dixhuit  would  envy  me  if  he 
knew  how  I  am  fed!  In  return  for  all  this  nourish- 
ment I  play  whist  with  the  natives  from  9  till  12 
&  constantly  win  their  money." 


1809]  Ufoe  iftancts  Xettets  657 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"ALDBOROUGH, 
"Oct.    20,    1809. 

"  MY  DEAREST  KITTEN, 

"  We  are  curious  to  hear  what  post  Ld. 
Palmerston  will  be  called  upon  to  fill.  He  is  cer- 
tainly better  qualified  in  many  respects  than  most 
of  the  present  administration  who  surely  cannot  hang 
together  long  after  the  riot  at  the  Theatre  is  at  an 
end,1  but  at  present  that  seems  a  question  of  far 
greater  interest  to  the  public  than  the  forming  of  a 
Ministry,  the  Troops  lost  at  Walcheren  or  any  other 
question  of  State.  .  .  . 

"  Philip  is  gone  out  shooting  to-day  but  I  have 
just  opened  a  letter  from  your  Father  to  him  ;  he 
goes  to  Hothfield  Friday  and  says  '  he  shall  certainly 
stay  there  as  long  as  he  likes  in  spite  of  the  dragon ' 
so  I  hope  with  that  &  Tunbridge  he  will  fill  up  time 
enough  to  allow  of  all  your  visits.  .  .  . 

"  Ever  your  own  Mamma." 

ELIZA  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"ALDBOROUGH, 

"[Oct.  i?]  1809. 

"  MY  DEAREST  CATY, 

"  .  .  .  Philip  got  a  day's  pheasant  shooting 
on  Tuesday  which  has  made  him  more  anxious  than 
ever  to  get  a  few  days  of  this  uncommon  sport.  .  .  . 
We  did  great  honour  to  the  Jubilee  in  Aldborough. 
We  had  an  unfortunate  Band  who  played  '  Rule 
Britannia '  and  '  God  save  the  King '  in  different 

1  These  are  the  celebrated  O.  P.  riots. 


658  ZTbc  jfrancte  Xettets  [1809 

parts  of  the  Town  from  Sunrise  to  Sunset.  Lord 
Salisbury  illuminated  grandly  and  gave  fireworks  and 
a  supper,  besides  doing  a  great  deal  of  real  good 
in  the  place — the  common  people  had  a  Ball  on  a 
Green,  and  judging  from  the  noise  which  continued 
through  great  part  of  the  night  there  was  scarcely 
a  sober  person  in  Aldeburgh.  I  hope  you  were  no 
less  loyal.  I  see  Lord  Palmers  ton  is  talked  of  as 
Secretary  of  War.  It  will  be  a  feather  in  his  cap 
to  hold  it  ever  so  short  a  time,  but  there  seems  no 
chance  of  this  administration  holding  out  long.  Lds, 
Grey  and  Grenville  must  come  in.  Your  Father 
says  the  present  Ministers  are  the  scorn  of  Men 
and  Women  including  Children  and  little  Infants." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  DUBLIN, 
"2nd  August,  1 8 10.     Thursday  7  in  the  Evening. 

"  DEAR  CATHERINE, 

"  We  embarked  at  Holyhead  yesterday  at 
3  p.m.,  and  landed  this  day  at  the  Pigeon  house 
at  one,  that  is  to  say  six  hours  ago.  We  are  lodged 
in  an  h6tel  which  once  was  a  Palace,  and  I  hope 
will  be  so  again  one  of  these  days.  Tomorrow 
morning  at  six  we  set  out  for  Hillsborough,  90 
English  miles  off,  where  dinner  is  ordered.  Our 
passage,  though  not  very  short,  was  mild  and  pros- 
perous. The  Pier  runs  above  three  miles  into  the 
Sea,  and  the  moment  we  landed  we  were  accosted 
by  a  young  Gentleman,  whose  whole  Costume  would 
have  been  dearly  bought  at  three  farthings,  in  the 
following  terms.  '  Plase  your  honour,  is  it  to  Dublin 


i8io]  Ube  jfraucis  Xetters  659 

you're  going  ?  ' — '  Why  where  the  devil  else  do  you 
think?'  'Then  plase  to  mount  my  gingle,  and  I'll 
be  bound  I'll  take  you  there  in  a  Crack ;  '  which 
he  most  honourably  performed,  to  my  astonishment 
with  one  horse,  and  a  four-wheel  carriage,  without 
a  covering,  to  the  great  joy  of  the  Marquis,  Mr. 
Yarrow  and  myself. 

"  The  Duke  of  Richmond  is  gone  to  Mullingar, 
or  we  should  probably  have  staid  here  tomorrow, 
and  so  with  my  blessing  to  all  the  Infantry  I 
remain, 

"  P.  F. 

"  At  Langothlen  we  visited  the  Ladies,  as  they 
are  called,  viz.,  Lady  Elenor  Butler  and  Miss  Pon- 
sonby,  a  fairy  Castle,  made  by  Inchantment  and 
inhabited  by  Angels.  Their  Joy  to  see  us,  and  to 
know  that  I  was  born  in  their  Country,  affected 
me  more  than  I  thought  I  could  be  by  anything 
said  or  done  by  Ladies  of  their  Age." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  HlLLSBOROUGH,1 

"  13  Sept.,  1810. 

"  DEAR  CATHERINE, 

"  Yesterday  came  your  letter  of  the  8th,  by 
which  I  perceive  that  you  are  settled  in  the  Country 
very  much  to  your  mind.  ...  So  I  see  no  reason 
why  you  should  not  stay  where  you  are,  to  the  2oth 
of  next  month.  I  have  a  great  deal  to  eat  and  to 
drink  before  I  leave  Ireland,  though  hitherto  I  have 
not  been  idle.  On  Saturday  we  were  invited  to  dine 
with  Lord  and  Lady  Donegall,  who  were  very  kind 
1  Place  of  Lord  Downshire. 


660  Ufoe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1810 

and  fed  us  famously  ;  as  indeed  they  all  do,  gentle  and 
simple,  without  distinction  of  age  or  sex.  On  Monday 
to  Lord  Dufferin's,  a  noble  place,  claret  delicious,  and 
stuffing  endless.  Lady  H unlock,  who  has  travelled 
round  Ireland  with  her  one  pair  of  Horses  one  maid 
and  cockatoo,  met  us  at  Lord  Donegall's,  where  she 
and  /  sat  up  gaming  and  drinking  all  night.  She 
and  /  are  sworn  friends.  After  tea,  she  takes  nothing 
but  Madeira  and  Water.  So,  to  please  the  Ladies, 
we  are  going  to  have  races,  with  Pigs,  Donkies,  and 
Ladies  in  Sacks.  Before  that  however,  we  go  to 
Dublin,  and  possibly  to  Killarney  ;  but  as  to  Lord 
Donomore,  I  have  heard  nothing  about  him.  Then 
back  here,  then  home  by  Scotland ;  all  which  I  think 
will  be  to  the  2Oth.  .  .  .  Arthur  is  expected  here.  I 
desire  an  answer  in  plain  English,  and  not  to  be 
referred  to  a  treatise  on  Algebra  by  Mr.  Blake.  The 
proposition  to  be  proved  is  that  if  the  Bank  would 
contract  their  paper  from  20  millions  to  10,  the 
guineas  or  the  Gold,  now  on  the  Continent,  would 
come  back  of  themselves,  without  the  help  of  any 
other  cause,  motive,  reason  or  operation  whatsoever. 
To  my  dim  eyes  it  appears  that,  for  the  purpose  of 
producing  that  effect,  you  might  just  as  well  rub  your 
cheek  with  a  brickbat,  unless  you  believe  that  the 
moment  a  Merchant  at  Hamburgh  or  Amsterdam 
heard  that  the  Bank  paper  in  Circulation  is  reduced 
to  half  what  it  was,  he  will  immediately  send  all  his 
gold  to  London.  If  he  does,  I  say  he  must  be  mad  ; 
or  let  Philip  shew  me  the  reason  of  his  conduct.  .  .  . 
Tell  Philip  that  if  he  can  fall  upon  Walter  Boyd's 
letter  to  Mr.  Pitt,  on  the  Influence  of  the  stoppage 


i8io]  zrbe  jfrancis  Xetters  661 

of  Issues  in  Specie  on  the  Prices  of  all  Commodities, 
printed  in  1801  for  T.  Wright  in  Piccadilly  and 
T.  Gillet  in  Salisbury  Square,  he  will  find  it  a 
Masterpiece,  as  clear  as  a  Fountain,  and  no  hocus 
pocus.  In  1798,  somebody  said  'The  only  Security 
against  an  exorbitant  Issue  of  Paper,  was  the  obliga- 
tion to  pay  in  Specie  on  demand.  Take  away  that 
restraint,  and  then  what  is  the  Bank  or  what  may  it 
be  but  an  Instrument  of  enormous  Power  and  Fraud 
in  the  hands  of  Government ! ' 

"  Don't  let  Philip  bully  you  out  of  your  senses  with 
hictius  doctius  and  many  fine  phrases.  Insist  on 
plain  Answers  and  don't  be  choused  of  your  guineas, 
for  anything  he  can  say  about  real  Exchange,  or 
computed  Exchange,  or  any  other  Exchange  which  is 
neither  one  or  the  other. 

"  Lord  Downshire  sends  his  duty  to  you  all,  and  I 
mine,  and  abundance  of  Compliments  to  Lord  Bristol. 

"  Ures, 
«  P.  F." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EMMA  WATKINS. 

"TuNBRiDGE  WELLS. 

"  Eh  bien,  Mademoiselle  Cat  &  Moi  went  to  the 
Wells  on  Tuesday,  where  &  when  it  was  a  perfect 
triumph  &  festivity  to  make  us  welcome  &  well  fed. 
Mrs.  J[ohnson]  lives  in  a  very  good  house  on  Mount 
S[ion]  in  order  to  be  near  their  friends  &  to  escape  from 
the  Heidigger1  the  only  Cat  now  mousing  on  Mount 

1  Heidigger  was  a  name  he  gave  to  a  lady  at  Tunbridge  Wells 
whose  appellation  was  not  very  unlike,  but  the  reason  he  gave  was 
that  a  certain  (Heidigger)  in  the  reign  of  James  I.  was  the  ugliest 
of  human  beings. 

VOL.    II.  21 


662  ftbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1810 

E[phraim].     They  have  taken  S.  House  at  the  bottom 
of    the    Hill.  ...   I    fought    such    a   battle   for   that 
Viscountess  as  has  not  been  heard  of  since  the  days 
of  King  William  or  Amadis  de  Gaul  ;  for  B.  B.  told 
me  of  a  trick  which  Heidigger  played  the  poor  Lady, 
which  excited  my  cynical  feelings  towards  the  former. 
It  seems  Lady  B.  had  made  preparations  for  a  large 
party  who  had  accepted  her  invitations,  when  a  rumour 
came  round  the  place  that  all   Lord    B.'s  Dogs  had 
been  bitten  by  a  rabid  one  which  had  been  killed  a 
short  time  before  in  the  place,  but  my  Lady  would  not 
have  any  of  them   destroyed  as   they  were  valuable 
animals,  &  she  said  some  of  them  perhaps  might  not 
go  mad — nor  could  she  allow  them  to  be  confined,  as 
they  were  accustomed  to  the  fire-side  &  hearthrugs,  & 
if  they  took  cold  from  the  change  which  she  thought 
very  likely,  the  poor   things  would  be  destroyed  as 
mad  &c.     This  was  the  current  report  at  the  Wells. 
All  the  world  sent  excuses  except  some  few  who  had 
not    heard   or   did   not    believe    it ;    the   latter   soon 
enlightened  the  former,  as  to  the  cause  of  the  Com- 
pany being  more  canine  than  human,  for  the  Dogs 
were  as  usual  lying  about  in  all  directions  &  became 
objects  of  dread  suspicion.     Heidigger  had  a  party 
the  same  night,  &  being  as  you  know  almost  next 
door  it  was    high    fun  as   Lady  B.'s  party  dissolved 
like  a  snowball  from  the  utmost  fear  of  her  fireside 
to  see  them  slip  into  the  rival  house  where  they  were 
received    by  old  Heidigger  with    much   sympathy  & 
many     congratulations     on     their     escape     from     so 
dreadful    a    fate ;    some   few    remained    mystified    to 
the  last,  &  never  found  their  danger  out  till   it  was 


i8io]  ttbe  ffvancte  ^Letters  663 

over,  my  Lady  herself  being  one  of  these,  but  when 
the  Cat  was  let  out,  she  said  it  was  a  Dog's  trick 
Heidigger  had  played  her  &  fit  for  one  who  values 
nothing  in  life  equal  to  an  odd  trick.  ...  I  never 
felt  the  lapse  of  years  until  I  began  to  admire  a  young 
Lady,  that  was  the  first  part  of  my  education  for  old 
age,  the  first  service  you  did  me.  If  possible  I  will 
return  it  &  not  leave  you  till  I  see  what  sort  of  an 
old  Lady  you  will  turn  out.  How  I  should  like  to 
see  you  with  gray  hairs.  I  shall  leave  an  order  in 
my  Will  that  you  shall  never  wear  a  Wigg." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"9/ft  Dec.,  1 8 10. 

"  DEAR  CATHERINE, 

"...  Everything  here  goes  on  better  than 
ever,  at  least  in  my  experience,  recu  a  bras  ouverts, 
and  no  clouds  yet.  I  have  received  Philip's  letter 
from  town,  tell  him  that  I  dislike  Huskns  preface 
extremely,  as  mean,  fawning,  useless  verbiage.  He 
should  have  gone  at  once  into  his  subject  without 
explanations  about  himself,  or  any  canting  Apologies 
to  anybody.  What  I  have  read  of  the  Discussion 
itself  is  excellent.  But  who  will  believe  that  such 
a  Work  was  originally  prepared  for  an  indulgent  and 
limited  Circle  only  !  and  who  the  Devil  cares  whether 
it  was  or  no  ?  Oh  !  but  then  he  was  pressed  by  more 
than  one  of  his  friends  !  What  vile  pitiful  Trash,  what 
vulgar,  commonplace  stuff! 

"  I  hope  you  are  all  very  merry,  send  me  word  of 
your  proceedings.  Don't  stir  till  you  hear  of  my 
Resolutions,  Write  Cross  post  on  your  letter,  and 


664  Ube  ffrancte  ^Letters  [1810 

desire  Spraye  to  send  it  to  Maidstone,  so  with  love 
to  you  all,  jointly  and  severally,  yours, 

"  P.  F." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  ON  A  VISIT  TO  LORD  DOWNSHIRE, 
TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"BRIGHTON, 

"i6/yfc  April,  1811. 

"  DEAR  CAT, 

"  The  Journey  was  uncommonly  rapid  and 
pleasant,  and  the  Reception  tale  quale.  Instead  of 
finding  Yarrow  here,  as  he  should  have  been  an 
hour  before  me,  he  was  not  to  be  seen  or  heard  of 
at  \  past  7,  nor  of  course  any  part  of  my  effects.  So 
I  concluded  he  was  gone  to  Hothfield  and  so  I  suffered 
Death  and  Martyrdom  till  the  Villain  was  announced, 
speechless  with  Ale  and  stuttering  with  horror,  and 
we  have  not  exchanged  a  word  from  that  hour  to  this. 
We  are  in  a  charming  house  with  all  manner  of 
accommodation,  Lord  Cholmondeley  on  one  side  and 
the  fair  Creeveys  on  the  other.  With  these  last  I  past 
an  hour  last  night,  that  is  very  happily  with  the  help 
of  the  5  beauties.  Ld.  Chy.  has  just  been  here  to 
invite  us  to  dinner  on  friday  .  .  .  the  fair  cuttlefish 
is  gone.  Arthur  was  transported  at  the  sight  of  me 
and  offered  to  fall  off  his  horse  for  joy. 

"  Yours, 

"  P.  F." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD   DOWNSHIRE  ON  HIS 
MARRIAGE. 

"28/^  Oct.,  1811. 

''Not  doubting  but  that  you  have  provided  wisely 
for  the  future  as  well  as  happily  for  the  present,  I  beg 


i8n]  Ube  jfrancts  Xettetrs  665 

of  you  to  accept  my  Congratulations,  on  your  own 
account  and  offer  them  for  me  to  the  Marchioness  of 
Dre.  I  am  yet  too  young  to  think  of  settling  for  Life, 
but,  when  once  I  have  sown  my  wild  Oats,  I  shall 
take  the  earliest  Oppy.  of  shewing  you  that  a  judicious 
example  has  not  been  thrown  away  upon  me.  In  the 
meantime  and  at  all  events,  except  the  last  that  can 
happen  to  me,  I  desire  to  be  considered  as  Lady 
Downshire's  most  humble  Cavaliere  Servente. 

"  When  for  want  of  live  Company,  you  are  talking 
to  your  ancestors  in  the  Library,  be  so  kind  as  to 
introduce  Sir  T.  R.,  to  her  Ladyship  as  one  of  mine. 
I  hope  you  intend  to  come  back  before  I  am  called 
upon  to  visit  them  in  person. 

"  Yours  till  then, 

"  P.  F." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  CATHERINE  FRANCIS. 

"  29  Oct. 

"  A  fine  silver  favour  was  sent  to  you  on  the  very 
day  of  the  Nuptials,  and  to  me  too,  besides  an 
immense  slice  of  the  Wedding  Cake.  My  Lady 
Dowr.  arrived  at  Montreal  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
the  Ceremony,  and  left  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  after. 
The  couple  set  off  for  Roehampton  the  moment  they 
were  married,  and  from  thence  are  to  proceed  rapidly 
to  Ireland,  in  this  blessed  weather  !  Mrs.  Thompson 
tells  me  they  shall  stay  a  month  at  Wick.  The  Prince 
is  expected  here  today.  If  it  were  not  for  my  two 
old  friends  Deluge  and  Hurricane,  I  should  like  my 
Station  well  enough.  In  effect,  I  am  overfed.  On 
Monday  I  shall  probable  remove  to  Hothfield.  The 


666  ^be  jfrancte  ^Letters  [i8n 

Patriarch  at  Saxam  was  well  on  Saturday,  and  so 
farewell,  and  speak  well  of  me  to  those  three 
respectable  persons, 

"P.  F." 


SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EMMA  WATKINS. 

"  ST.  JAMES'S  SQUARE. 

"  ...  A  friend  of  yours  has  got  into  an  impatient 
habit  of  waiting  for  Saturday,  as  other  people  do  for 
Monday,  &  with  nearly  an  equal  passion  for  writing 
as  for  reading.  It  is  a  pleasure  which  I  never  thought 
I  should  ever  feel  again,  to  have  something  to  live 
for  from  week  to  week  ;  they  who  cannot  think,  or 
who  have  nothing  to  think  of  would  not  know  how 
to  fill  up  the  interval.  Why  ?  because  they  have  not 
wit  enough  to  turn  Blanks  into  Prizes.  It  is  the  heart 
that  furnishes  the  imagination  with  the  power  as  well 
as  the  materials  of  building  real  castles  at  the  disposal 
of  the  mind,  and  sure  of  lasting  as  long  as  the 
Architect.  ..." 

Sir  Philip  writes  to  the  same  : — 

"  What  you  say  about  friendship  is  very  pretty  & 
very  true  &  I  believe  it  may  exist  in  very  refined 
minds  even  between  the  sexes  without  passion.  I  can 
form  an  idea  of  a  beauty  and  merit  too  exalted  to  be 
an  object  of  sense,  that  has  something  divine  about 
it  which  calms  the  mind  &  arrests  it  in  pure,  unmixed 
admiration.  .  .  . 

"  I  have  sat  two  days  to  a  Painter  for  my  picture, 
or  rather  for  my  sins,  but  when  importunity  & 
opportunity  meet,  Gare  les  suites !  You  scorn  my 


ZEbe  jftancis  Xettets  667 

words  &  will  not  believe  that  the  portrait  of 
youth  &  beauty  is  worth  having,  yet  encourage 
Septuagenarian  Vanity,  I  believe  you  want  me  to 
see  how  old  I  look  &  so  far  it  promises  well,  yet 
be  it  known  to  all  men  and  one  woman  that  I  never 
sat  for  other  than  caricatures  till  my  7oth  year,  So 
I  shall  descend  to  the  3rd  &  4th  generation  as  a 
grey  beard  &  whatever  levities  may  have  escaped 
in  the  morn  or  noon  of  life  will  be  annexed  to  the 
only  idea  they  will  have  of  me.  .  .  ." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LORD  THANET. 

"  TUNBRIDGE  WELLS, 
"6M  Septr.,  1812. 

"  Marmont  was  to  blame  for  losing  his  arm  before 
the  battle  began.  I  see  nothing  else  to  find  fault 
with  in  his  conduct.  If  he  had  not  pursued  Welling- 
ton, then  retiring  to  Portugal  and  ready  to  leave 
Salamanca  to  take  care  of  herself,  Buonaparte  of 
course  would  have  shot  him.  Wellington's  merit 
on  this  occasion  consisted  in  taking  advantage  of 
an  unexpected  opportunity,  for  which  I  give  him 
full  credit.  The  loss  of  so  many  cannon,  stores, 
and  ammunition,  must  be  a  great  distress  to  the 
French,  and  the  Capture  of  Madrid  will  make  a 
loud  report  over  Europe.  The  echo  of  it  may  be 
heard  and  have  some  effect  on  the  Waters  of  the 
Dwina,  if  it  reaches  that  river  in  time  to  prevent 
a  Pacification  between  those  two  Emperors ;  both 
of  whom  you  have  my  leave  to  wish  at  the  devil, 
one  for  the  sake  of  the  other.  I  never  could  find 
out  a  plausible  reason,  why  Russia  should  be  an 


668  ube  ffrancte  Xetters  [1812 

European,  or  England  an  Asiatic  Power.  In  the 
last  hundred  years,  those  savages  have  done  nothing 
but  rob,  enslave,  and  murder,  wherever  they  could 
penetrate,  in  all  that  part  of  Europe  and  its  In- 
habitants ;  witness  Livonia,  Courland,  Finland,  Poland 
&c.  Prussia  too  was  another  barbarous  Horde  of 
banditti  of  much  the  same  character,  and  if  moral 
guilt  could  be  incurred  by  nations,  richly  deserved 
her  fate.  Remember  the  invasion  of  Holland  for 
the  sake  of  the  fat  Princess  of  Orange,  and  of 
Champagne  in  1792,  both  conducted  by  the  Duke 
of  Brunswick,  and  his  famous  Declaration  that  he 
would  annihilate  Paris,  as  some  other  Hero  has 
done  Babylon.  Let  these  Devils  punish  one  another; 
tanto  meglio,  I  have  no  pity  for  any  of  them. 
Buonaparte  is  an  avenging  Daemon  sent  on  purpose 
to  scourge  these  nations  for  submitting  to  be  the 
slaves  and  instruments  of  mean  barbarous  tyrants, 
who  differ  from  him  in  nothing  but  that  with  equal 
malignity,  they  have  none  of  his  Magnanimity,  and 
not  the  smallest  portion  of  his  Abilities.  Yet  I  am 
very  far  from  wishing  him  success,  except  that  he 
may  re-establish  the  Independence  of  Poland.  Why? 
— for  my  own  sake,  and  because  I  think  that,  with 
such  a  power  once  established  over  Europe,  England 
could  not  be  safe  ;  certainly  not  for  many  years,  if 
this  man  lives.  At  the  same  time,  I  well  know  my 
dilemma.  We  are  actually  tottering,  not  walking, 
on  a  narrow  Isthmus,  with  a  Precipice  on  each  side 
of  us.  You  dread  the  Torrent  on  one  side  ;  but  have 
you  nothing  to  fear  on  the  other  ?  .  .  . 

"  Vous  avez  beau  dire;   'neither   this   event,   nor 


1812] 


ZTbe  ffrancis  Xettets 


669 


any  other,  will  induce  the  Spaniards  to  make  exer- 
tions in  the  Cause  of  their  Country' l  They  say  it 
is  your  cause,  not  theirs,  and  that  they  are  utterly 
ruined  by  the  Contest.  They  are  not  only  unwilling, 
but  incapable  of  acting  in  concert  with  an  English 
Army.  I  asked  Wellesley  Pole  yesterday,  how  many 
Spaniards  Lord  Wn.  had  with  him  at  the  last 
Battle,  he  laughed  and  said  7,000 — but  that  he,  Wn. 
kept  them  for  shew,  and  in  a  safe  position,  knowing 
well  that,  if  they  were  within  a  mile  of  a  single 
cannon,  they  would,  unfortunately  run  away  and 
overtake  the  Portuguese.  Those  two  Spaniards  were 
indeed  very  unlucky !  to  be  killed  just  as  if  they 
belonged  to  the  Battle  when  they  only  intended  to 
look  on  till  it  was  over ;  and  then  side  with  the 
winners !  Now  I  tell  you  that  the  fate  of  the 
Peninsula,  and  of  Europe  too,  will  be  decided  in 
the  North.  If  Buonaparte  settles  that  question  to 
his  mind,  everything  else  will  follow.  If  he  be 
demolished  or  defeated,  of  which  /  am  told  there  is 
no  doubt,  why  then  you  may  speculate  on  Conse- 
quences as  much  as  you  please,  and  to  as  much 
purpose  as  Milton's  Devils  did,  when  they  argued 
about  '  Free  Will,  fixed  fate,  foreknowledge  absolute.' 
Sir  Walter  says  you  are  resolved  to  drink  those 
Waters  on  Party  principles ;  for  that  you  would 
not  have  minded  his  advice  if  the  Duke  of  Bedford 
and  some  other  Staunch  Whigs  had  not  given  you 
the  same  opinion.  You  are  much  too  good  a 
politician  to  be  satisfied  with  a  Civil  War  in  your 
intestines.  .  .  .  But  can  you  minister  to  a  mind 
1  Wellington's  words. 


670  Ztbe  ffrancte  Xettets  [1812 

diseased  ?  beware  of  leaving  me  alone  with  that 
Lamb  again,  pour  cette  fois,  je  Fai  echappe  belle. 
Remember  what  happened  to  the  fool,  who  went 
back  for  his  hat,  when  he  had  got  safe  out  of  the 
Boudoir  dune  certaine  aimable,  douce  et  tendre 
tigresse,  qui  venoit  d  aiguillonner  ses  griff es,  sans  faire 
semblant  de  rieu.  Why  you  told  me  yourself  that, 
if  you  had  the  money,  you  would  have  bought  that 
farm,  and  given  it  to  my  Lady  in  fee  simple.  So  she 
thinks  I  have  supplanted  her,  and  hates  me  cordially 
for  my  pains.  If  you  meet  Ld.  Hutchinson  at 
Leamington,  you  may  safely  buckle  him  to  you  with 
Ribs  of  steel. 

"  Last  night  I  had  the  honour  to  play  at  french 
crowns  and  swobbers  with  the  following  Ladies  of 
quality  and  two  Doctors  of  Physic  viz.,  Duchess 
Dowager  of  Rutland,  Marchioness  of  Donegal, 
Marchioness  of  Wellington,  Countess  of  Clermont, 
Countess  of  Rossmore  and  Tom  Jones.  So  I 
trounced  Rossmore  out  of  £4.  $s. 

"  I  think  I  hear  my  Lady  screaming  at  your  not 
letting  her  go  to  Skipton  this  summer,  if  it  were  only 
for  a  fortnight.  Poor  thing  she  sees  very  little  of  the 
World,  and  knows  less.  She  is  made  for  a  better. 
You  must  have  a  hard  heart  to  detain  her  here. 
Mo lliter  ossa  quiescant,  sit  tibi  terra  grams,  just 
enough  to  prevent  rising,  car  enfin  elle  seroit  capable 
de  revenir.  En  ce  cas,  je  connois  qu^lquun,  qui  Im 
montreroit  un  leger  paire  de  talons. 

"  Remember  that,  in  my  letter  to  Macmahon  I  put 
the  case  in  Spain  exactly  as  it  stands  now. 

"  Sir  Walter  told  me  yesterday,  in  strict  confidence 


zrbe  frauds  Xettevs  67 1 

and  with  many  tears,  all  of  his  own  shedding,  that 
Bethlehem,  compared  with  my  Lady's  brain,  was  the 
residence  and  abode  of  sound  sense  and  right  reason 
proh — Jupiter  !  " 

The  following  letters  were  written  by  the  younger 
Philip  to  interest  and  amuse  his  father  during  a  long 
and  serious  illness,  with  which  the  latter  was  laid  up 
in  St.  James's  Square.  The  son's  constant  letters  at 
the  same  period  to  his  sister  Catherine,  who  was 
nursing  Sir  Philip,  contain  nothing  but  the  most 
curiously  minute  directions  as  to  the  care  and  treat- 
ment of  the  father,  no  doubt  the  result  of  his  early 
experiences  when  in  charge  of  his  two  consumptive 
sisters  at  Nice. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

"BRIGHTON, 

"25^  Novr.,  1812. 
"  MY   DEAR    SlR, 

"  .  .  .  Everything  is  flat  here  in  the  absence 
of  news  from  the  North.  Spain  no  longer  attracts 
any  notice.  People  believe  that  Wellington]  will 
continue  to  retreat  without  fighting,  to  Portugal — and 
then  ' prfche  qui  vent  on  ne  parle  plus  de  celaJ  As  to 
the  North  I  continue  sanguine  and  the  more  because 
we  hear  nothing  from  the  other  side  of  the  water." 

"BRIGHTON, 
"3  Deer.,  1812. 

"  MY  DEAR  SIR, 

"  I  write,  though  I  have  nothing  to  say — 
you  don't  like  observations,  but  facts — now,  our  daily 
occurrences  here  are  facts  of  very  humble  Interest. 


672  ZTbe  jfrancte  Xettets  [1812 

This  house  is  become  a  mere  school  for  babies.  .  .  . 
We  are  all  agog  for  the  Russian  account  of  the  battle 
of  the  24th  at  Malo — Yaroslawetz,  in  which  you  may 
take  my  word  for  it,  the  French  were  severely  handled, 
and  Buonaparte's  person  in  great  danger.  There  is 
not  a  word  of  truth  in  his  having  got  himself  to 
Smolensk,  for  Ist  he  could  not  leave  his  army ;  2nd  I 
am  satisfied  his  communications  with  France  are 
entirely  cut  ofif  His  fortune  may  save  him.  But  he 
is  in  great  danger." 

11  loth  Deer.,  1812, 

"  MY  DEAR  SIR, 

"  Caty  says  you  are  of  opinion  that  it  is  up 
with  Bony.  I  hope  it  is — nay  I  should  be  sure  it  was, 
if  he  was  still  at  Smolensko  on  the  i4th  Novr. 
up  to  which  the  Journal  de  Paris  told  us  '  they  had 
accounts  of  him,  but  nothing  new'  Of  his  army  with 
which  he  left  Moscow,  he  will  now  save  30,000  men, 
you  always  maintained  that  his  retreat  to  Poland  was 
out  of  the  question — that  he  must  winter  at  Moscow, 
or  push  on  to  Petersburg.  These  two  objects  he 
found  equally  impracticable  and  I  found  myself  on 
your  authority  that  his  retreat  will  prove  equally  so. 
The  next  Bulletin  will  be  decisive  of  his  fate  but 
certainly  of  that  of  his  army.  Let  it  only  begin  '  The 
Emperor  is  still  at  Smolensko — Nov.  14'  and  I  ask 
no  more. 

"  Burdett,  I  see,  has  at  last  given  up  the  ministry — 
that  ministry  whom  he  and  Cobbett  kept  in  with  all 
their  might  to  the  destruction  of  the  country,  from 
their  mere  rancour  against  the  Talents.  At  last  even 


1812]  ZTbe  Brands  ^Letters  673 

he  is  worn  out  with  their  folly  and  extravagance.  .  .  . 
There  is  absolutely  '  nen  qui  vaille '  to  write  of  from 
this  place.  The  Fish  you  have  heard  of. 

"  P.  F." 

"  BRIGHTON, 
41 16  Deer.,  1812. 

"  DEAR  SIR, 

"  We  have  had  now  three  successive  days 
of  good  account  of  you  since  your  late  drawbacks.  .  .  . 
In  Sir  Evd.  Home  and  Mr.  Gatrum  you  have  the 
best  possible  professional  aid  towards  your  recovery. 
For  the  rest,  we  must  rely  mainly  on  your  undeviating 
and  most  scrupulous  observance  of  every  part,  small 
as  well  as  great  of  the  treatment  directed  for  you  ;  and 
secondarily  on  nature  and  your  excellent  constitution, 
which  has  never  yet  failed  you  at  a  pinch — witness 
your  severe  illness  in  1803,  and  last  year.  I  hear 
you  say  *  Don't  preach,  but  tell  me  some  news.'  Ask 
me  for  news,  when  the  whole  Paris  Press,  after  1 1 
days  interval  since  the  last  Bulletin,  have  not  told 
the  anxious  Bonapartists  one  single  syllable  about 
their  long-lost  Lord  and  master.  I  say,  not  one 
syllable,  and  for  a  very  simple  reason.  In  truth 
they  know  nothing  about  him.  He  may  be  at  Wilna 
at  Kiow,  at  Warsaw,  at  Berlin,  or  where  you  will ; 
but  they  know  it  not.  Of  this  I  am  satisfied,  and  I 
am  equally  so,  that  the  French  Army  (les  beaux 
restes  cest  a  dire]  are  at  Smolensko,  surrounded  by 
the  whole  force  of  the  Russians  concentrated  for  their 
destruction — and  the  Devil  give  'em  his  own  de- 
liverance, for  me.  Oh  !  for  the  29th  Bulletin  !  What 
will  he,  what  can  he  say !  Madison's  address  is  a 


674  ZTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  [1812 

most  paltry  performance — I  could  however,  forgive 
it  for  what  it  says  ;  but  for  its  entire  omission  of  the 
two  great  questions  depending  in  Spain  and  Russia — 
for  its  base  and  cautious  fear  of  offending  the  oppressor 
of  the  world — not  daring  to  hazard  one  line,  one  word 
of  qualification  of  his  execrable  invasion  of  those  two 
countries  struggling,  with  their  last  resources,  to  pre- 
serve their  national  independence — nor  one  of  hope 
for  the  success  of  either  against  him — for  such  sneak- 
ing, contemptible  subserviency  to  the  ambitious  and 
tyrannical  views  of  Bonaparte.  I  shall  ever  think 
meanly  of  the  President  of1  THE  AMERICAN  REPUBLIC.' 
His  going  to  war  with  us  was  foolish  enough  but  the 
temptation  held  out  to  him  to  try  what  he  could  do  to 
distress  England  under  suck  a  Government  /  /  was 
almost  irresistible.  They  will,  at  last,  perhaps  be 
goaded  into  vigor  and  exertion  by  the  sneers  and 
taunts  of  all  mankind,  and  then  America  will  pay  a 
heavy  price  for  Madison's  folly.  A  pretty  account 
Burdett  gives  of  the  hopeful  state  of  Reform !  In 
other  words  the  country  is  not  for  it.  This  you  have 
been  telling  him  this  6  years,  and  he  has  made  at 
last  the  notable  discovery !  but  observe  not  a  word 
for  the  Talents,  tho'  he  has  given  up  the  Ministry. 
Philly  and  John  went  to  dine  at  Miss  W[atkin]s  yes- 
terday— she  insisted  upon  having  them  ;  tho'  in  truth 
they  have  had  too  frequent  holiday-making  lately. 
She  is  going  away  from  this  for  good.  Amongst 
other  company  at  Ld.  B[ristol]'s  where  we  dined 
yesterday,  we  had  Sir  Thomas  Barnard  ;  who  gave 
us  an  interesting  account  of  the  distresses  of  the  poor 
in  the  manufacturing  towns,  and  of  the  plan  now  in 


1812] 


Ube  jfrancts  Xetters 


675 


a  course  of  execution  to  give  them  a  cheap  supply 
of  Fish.  This  important  article  of  subsistence,  now 
more  than  ever  so,  might  be  procured  to  any  amount 
for  the  supply  of  the  Capital  and  country,  but  for  the 
existence  of  the  exclusive  Billingsgate  Fish  market, 
and  some  advantages  derived  to  the  City  of  London, 
in  its  corporate  capacity  therefrom.  A  bill  is  to  be 
brought  into  Parliament  to  abolish  it,  which  will  of 
course  be  opposed  by  the  City  Interest,  but  which 
it  is  to  be  hoped  that  of  the  whole  country  concerned 
in  its  success,  will  be  able  to  carry  through.  Your 
little  playfellow  Henry  sends  the  duty  of  an  old 
soldier  to  his  Grandpapa.  Eliza  and  the  other  in- 
fantry beg  to  be  dutifully  and  kindly  remembered 
to  you. 

"P.  F." 

11  BRIGHTON, 
"20th  Deer.,  1812. 
"  MY   DEAR    SlR, 

"  You  did  not,  I  think,  during  the  progress 
of  Buonaparte  in  Russia  give  my  judgment  that  credit 
it  appears  to  have  deserved.  But  you  will  allow  that 
my  last  letter  to  you,  which  arrived  while  you  were 
reading  the  extraordinary  Gazette  was  correct  in  its 
speculations,  to  a  very  prophesy.  His  army  was  in 
Smolensk,  and  the  Devil  has  given  it  his  own 
deliverance.  It  was  too  bad  even  for  Buonaparte 
himself,  who  has  seen  a  good  deal  of  fighting,  and 
doesn't  mind  trifles,  but  who,  upon  this  occasion, 
fairly  ran  for  it  to  the  tune  of  '  Ouupet  extremum 
scabies '  which  we  render  '  The  Devil  take  the  hind- 
most.' Now  don't  suppose  I  am  as  sanguine  of 


676  TTbe  Jfrancfs  Otetters  [1812 

his  destruction,  as  I  was  of  that  of  his  army.  I 
think  he  has  clearly  escaped  with  some  30,000  men 
to  Wilna — and  from  thence  he  will  be  able  to  make 
a  securer  retreat  upon  resources  forwarded  to  him 
by  France  and  his  vassal  states.  For  I  am  not  one 
of  those  who  expect  any  rising  of  the  continent, 
much  less  of  France.  And  if  any  disposition  to  it 
existed  in  these  the  wet  blanket  thrown  upon  it  by 
Castlereagh's  idiot  observation  about  Peace  would  at 
once  extinguish  it.  Thus,  having  thrown  away  the 
crisis  produced  by  the  battle  of  Salamanca,  they 
throw  away  upon  the  back  of  it,  the  much  more 
important  one  of  the  destruction  of  Napoleon's  army. 
This  it  is  to  have  fools  to  govern  us.  To  get 
Whitbread's  and  Burdett's  vote  to  his  beggarly 
,£200,000  which  after  all  he  did  not  get,  he  drops, 
in  the  thoughtlessness  of  his  unutterable  folly,  the 
important  word  '  Peace '  ;  more  important  from  his 
mouth  as  an  English  Minister  than  in  that  of 
Romanzov  himself  under  the  present  circumstances. 
Because  it  tells  more  immediately  with  France  and 
the  Continent,  and  at  once  suppresses  insurrection 
and  helps  him  to  support.  This  portentous  word, 
which  for  the  last  6  months  our  whole  press  has 
been  devoting  Alexander  to  everlasting  infamy  if  he 
should  even  think  of,  much  less  use ;  this  has  first 
fallen  from  the  lips  of  an  English  Minister — and 
when  ?  At  the  very  high  tide  of  the  Russian  Suc- 
cesses, when  after  triumphant  victory  they  are  actually 
engaged  in  that  essential  part  of  it — 'having  good 
execution  of  the  enemy '  in  Cromwell's  language — but 
still  more,  at  the  moment  when  we  are  none  of  us 


jfrancts  Xetters  677 

without  our  apprehensions  not  only  that  he,  Buona- 
parte, has  himself  escaped,  but  escaped  '  to  become 
once  more  as  intractable  in  peace  as  formidable  in 
war ;  To  talk  of  Peace,  per  sey  est  la  plus  platte  de 
toutes  les  Judaises.  Who  is  there,  that  has  a  stake 
in  this  jaded,  exhausted  country,  who  is  not  for  it 
in  all  the  honesty  and  sincerity  of  his  heart  ?  But 
to  keep  it  is  the  concern  equally  of  every  thinking 
man.  There  is  but  one  way,  '  Reduce  the  power 
of  your  enemy  within  reasonable  bounds  ' — and  then 
you  may  get  not  only  terms  which  I  care  not  for, 
but  security  for  continuance.  Now  this  the  Russians 
are  doing  for  us,  for  they  have  not  yet  done  it,  believe 
me.  But  even  those  great  and  prodigious  efforts 
and  successes  are  to  be  of  no  avail  for  us,  from  the 
folly  of  our  own  Government,  who,  not  being  called 
upon  to  act,  but  only  to  profit  by  the  exertions  of  others, 
cannot  keep  their  foolish  tongues  between  their  teeth 
— but  must  help  out  a  thing  of  as  little  moment  as 
the  Subscription  for  Russia  by  an  expression  the 
most  blasting  to  the  hope  of  her  efforts  for  the  common 
cause  that  the  ingenious  folly  of  a  Walcherenite  could 
have  desired. 

"  Yours  Vere  Pacificus" 

11  BRIGHTON, 
"25//fc  Deer.,  1812. 
"  MY   DEAR    SlR, 

"  Caty  asks  in  her  letter  of  yesterday  '  What 
does  Philip  say  to  Buonaparte  now?'  Why,  I  say, 
that  a  week  ago  I  wrote  to  you  '  that  I  was  of  opinion 
he  had  escaped  to  Wilna  with  40,000  men.'  And  that 
therefore,  I  am  neither  surprised  nor  disappointed. 

VOL.    II.  22 


678  TTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1812 

It  is  not  easy  to  catch  the  Emperor?  as  Sir  Joseph 
Banks  can  tell  you,  much  less  such  an  Emperor 
as  Napoleon  Buonaparte.  People  who  have  got 
,£  1 00,000  of  omnium  are  perhaps  excusable  when 
their  judgments  are  misled  by  their  Interests.  I  had 
none  to  mislead  mine  from  without  the  safe  and  simple 
rule  of  probabilities.  But  I  ask  you,  Miss  Caty,  in 
return.  What  do  you  say  to  the  29th  Bulletin  ?  Is 
the  whole  of  his  Moscow  army  destroyed  or  not,  with 
all  its  equipments,  with  everything  that  belongs  to  an 
army — upon  that  evidence.  Aye  or  No  ?  But  I'll  tell 
you  more,  and  take  it  for  a  day  or  two  on  my  judg- 
ment till  the  Russian  Accounts  arrive.  He  has  not 
taken  40,000  men  off  with  him  to  Wilna.  I  don't 
mean  of  his  Moscow  army.  Their  bones  were  left  on 
the  East  of  the  Borysthenes,  but  of  those  fresh  troops 
under  Victor,  Oudinot,  Dombrouski,  &c.,  he  found 
on  this  side.  I  assert  that  these  too  were  utterly 
destroyed  in  the  battle  of  the  28th  on  the  Berezyna, 
and  in  some  previous  ones  of  which  we  have  yet  to  hear 
from  the  Russians.  Mark  me  well.  The  Bulletin  is 
to  me  sufficient  evidence  that  40,000  have  not  reached 
Wilna  but  if  you  want  a  better  wait  a  little.  My 
friend  Tchichagoff  to  whom  I  have  been  bawling  these 
2  months  did  come  at  last  to  Minsk,  in  time  to 
obstruct  their  retreat  and  to  destroy  them.  As  to  his 
Generals,  I  daresay  that,  like  their  master,  they  took 
as  good  care  of  themselves  as  he  would  let  them,  and 
cared  about  as  much  for  their  men.  But  it  remains  to 
be  proved,  how  many  of  them  escaped  to  Wilna  after 
their  master.  For  they  were  as  I  take  it,  a  little  way 

1  The  Emperor  butterfly,  Sir  Joseph  Banks  being  a  naturalist. 


jfrancis  Xetters  679 

behind.  And  a  little  upon  such  neck  and  neck  racing 
makes  a  good  deal  of  Difference,  and  so  I  bid  you 
Adieu. 

"P.  F." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EMMA  WATKINS. 

"  .  .  .  Souvenez  vous  que  dans  tons  les  objets  de 
ma  vie  je  nai  jamais  eu  le  moindre  succes,  pas  meme 
justice,  et  que  rien  ne  ma  rdussi,  malgrd  cela  je  ne 
dirai  pas  que  fat  toujours  M  malheureux.  ...  In 
looking  for  a  grain  of  wheat  one  may  find  a  precious 
Pearl.  Do  you  remember  those  pretty  lines  in  one  of 
old  Beaumont's  plays 

"  Oh !  mediocrity,  thou  priceless  jewel  ! 
Only  mean  men  find  and  cannot  value ; 
Like  the  precious  Pearl  found  in  the  dunghill 
By  the  ignorant  Cock. 

"  N.B.  Mean  does  not  imply  base  in  these  old 
English  writers  who  were  more  exact  in  their  language 
than  we  are,  they  use  the  word  as  in  the  golden  mean. 
I  have  tried  in  my  small  way  to  restore  the  original 
signification  to  some  terms  which  I  found  used  after 
the  manner  of  Mistress  Slipslop,  but  this  requires 
some  thought,  and  if  works  are  as  popular  and  sell  as 
well  without  such  niceties  why  should  they  not  con- 
clude that  '  thinking  is  but  an  useless  waste  of 
thought.'  " 

THE  SAME  TO  THE  SAME. 

" .  .  .  Mon  Mddecin  vient  de  me  quitter,  il  me 
donne  des  belles  esperances  de  revoir  nos  amis  comme 
autrefois,  il  me  dit  que  dans  toute  sa  practique  il  na 


680  ube  jfrancte  Xetters  [1812 

jamais  rencontrt  un  fore  comme  mot,  that  I  shall  go. 
down  flaring  into  the  socket,  et  que  le  dernier  soupir 
sera  de  feu  et  de  flamme." 

In  another  letter  to  Miss  Watkins  Sir  Philip  had 
said  he  wished  he  could  live  to  see  her  grey    hairs. 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  MR.  PERRY  OF  THE 

'  CHRONICLE.' 

11  [Private.] 

11  BRIGHTON, 
"October  19^,  1813. 

"  DEAR  SIR, 

"  In  the  midst  of  incessant  bodily  pain,  I 
think  myself  lucky  when  I  find  anything  that  furnishes 
me  with  a  little  reliefer  diversion.  I  did  so,  and  more 
than  I  thought  possible  in  reading  a  letter  in  your 
paper  of  Friday  last  on  the  subject  of  comedy.  I  may 
say,  as  Longinus  said  of  Moses,  the  author  of  it  is  no 
common  man,  and  truly,  whether  it  be  yourself  or 
anybody  else  I  should  like  to  know  his  name.  There 
are  a  few  words  and  passages,  nevertheless,  which  I 
should  like  to  have  corrected,  because  I  would  not 
have  anything  left  open  to  cavil  in  so  perfect  a  piece. 
First,  '  commonplaces,'  in  the  plural,  is  not  English  ; 
the  word  in  the  singular  number,  I  think,  is  commonly 
used  as  an  adjective  or  an  epithet.  The  observation 
that  follows  is  excellent,  viz.  '  That  I  am  always  apt 
to  distrust  these  modest  pretensions  to  plain  under- 
standing.' An  air  of  humility  is  very  often  only  a 
shelter  for  ignorance,  and  sometimes  a  weapon  of 
arrogance.  We  are  overrun  with  affectation  in  writing. 
Even  common  sense  is  affected.  A  plain  country 


1 8 13]  ttbe  jfrancte  betters  68 1 

gentleman  is  now  the  established  description  of  an 
ass.  He  says,  We  cannot  expect  to  reconcile  opposite 
things.  Certainly  not,  while  they  are  opposite,  but 
we  have  seen  coalitions.  It  is  only  contradictions 
which  cannot  be  reconciled.  He  mistakes  the  fact 
about  the  '  Me*decin  malgre  lui.'  It  is  not  a  long  play, 
but  a  mere  farce  of  two  acts,  or  three  at  most.  I  saw 
it  at  Paris  about  thirty  years  ago,  when  '  Le  Medecin ' 
was  acted  by  Mole*  and  laughed  from  the  beginning  to 
the  end  of  it.  As  to  the  Comtdie  pathttique,  or 
Sentimentale  or  Larmoyante,  I  consign  them  one  and 
all  to  the  devil  without  mercy.  Not  that  there  may 
not  be  a  pathetic  scene  in  a  comedy  as  there  may  be 
in  common  life,  of  which  comedy  is  or  ought  to  be 
the  representation.  Rousseau  has  annihilated  the 
'Misanthrope'  of  Moliere  in  his  admirable  letter  to 
D'Alembert,  as  Mrs.  Montague  has  the  *  Cinna '  of 
Corneille.  The  '  Tartuffe  '  as  a  dramatic  composition, 
is  a  masterpiece  ;  but  I  think  there  is  not  mirth  and 
gaiety  enough  in  it  for  a  comedy.  Since  the  first 
revival  of  '  Every  Man  in  His  Humour,'  I  know  of 
no  English  Comedy  so  well  acted  or  so  well  received 
as  that  was,  I  mean  with  incessant  laughter.  '  Le 
Mariage  de  Figaro,'  though  a  very  inferior  piece,  was 
received  in  the  same  way  at  Paris,  and  acted  fifty 
nights  consecutively,  because,  with  some  drollery  in 
the  contrivance  and  dialogue,  it  was  incomparably 
acted.  In  short,  I  have  no  better  idea  of  a  weeping 
comedy  than  of  the  blue  sound  of  a  trumpet.  Why 
not  Harlequin  in  tears,  and  Columbine  in  convulsions  ? 
Remember  that  Voltaire  and  D'Alembert  repeatedly 
affirm  that  the  French  theatre  is  a  la  glace.  The 


682  tEbe  jfrancte  Xetters  [1813 

tragic  heroes  one  and  all  are  htros  de  theatres  not 
in  nature.  They  strut,  too,  like  Lewis  XIV.,  who, 
instead  of  shoes,  wore  buskins  all  his  life. 

"  I  shall  now  turn  to  another  subject  of  much  more 
importance,  on  which  I  have  long  had  it  in  my  thoughts 
to  say  a  few  words  to  you,  but  have  hitherto  been 
prevented  by  severe  and  unremitting  illness.  Some 
experience  and  long  reflection  have  formed  my  opinion 
upon  it,  and  entitle  me  to  be  heard,  especially  as  it  is 
impossible  that  /  can  have  any  concern  in  the  question 
or  interest  in  the  decision.  I  entreat  you  to  consider 
well,  and  deliberate  long,  before  you  give  encourage- 
ment to  the  scheme  lately  adopted  of  sending 
missionaries  to  India  to  convert  the  Hindoos.  Let 
them  try  the  Mahometans  if  they  dare.  Remember 
Vellore.  The  possible  mischiefs  which  may  arise  out 
of  it  ought  to  be  obvious  enough  to  make  the  fiercest 
fanatic  shudder,  and  even  the  most  pious  and  best 
intentioned  men  to  hesitate  and  tremble  before  they 
act.  I  am  not  able  at  this  time  to  go  far  into  the 
subject.  But,  if  I  live,  I  will  do  it ;  and  the  rather 
because  I  do  not  now  value  the  terrors  of  this  world, 
nor  care  one  farthing  what  anybody  says  or  thinks 
of  me.  For  the  present  listen  to  the  poor  Brahmin, 
when  the  New  Testament  was  explained  to  him — 
'  Your  religion  may  be  very  good  for  you  and  your 
climate,  and  your  Lawgiver  seems  to  have  been  a 
wise  man  ;  for  he  says,  Judge  of  the  tree  by  the  fruits. 
To  us  that  fruit  has  been  bitter  ;  but  you  must  make 
a  desert  of  India  before  you  can  plant  the  tree  in  our 
land  ! '  Our  missionaries  I  dare  say,  will  not  begin  with 
persecution  for  lowliness  is  young  religions  ladder. 


Ube  francte  Xetters  683 

"  But  then  great  crimes  are  committed  in  India. 
Widows  are  burnt,  children  are  drowned,  and  horrible 
excesses  are  permitted  at  Juggernaut.  These  are 
offences  against  God  and  nature  and  all  religions, 
and  the  Hindoo  more  than  any  other.  The  first 
and  last  are  promoted  by  the  priesthood,  for  ends  of 
their  own.  The  second  is  the  result  of  famine  and 
despair.  In  the  most  fertile  country  in  the  world, 
and  where  the  natives  who  eat  nothing  but  rice,  are 
most  easily  satisfied  in  point  of  food,  you  hear  of 
thousands  perpetually  perishing  by  famine.  I  could 
tell  you  why,  and  will  hereafter.  Do  you  believe 
that  any  mother,  in  any  country,  would  murder  her 
child  if  she  had  the  means  of  giving  it  nourishment  ? 
But  why  are  these  crimes  (I  mean  those  which  the 
priesthood  encourage)  suffered  to  go  unpunished  ? 
Why  are  they  not  prevented  ?  Where  is  your  civil 
government  ?  What  has  it  been  hitherto,  and  why 
is  it  renewed  in  the  person  of  that  imaginary  person, 
the  India  Company?  Have  they  no  power  but  to 
tax,  to  desolate,  and  to  destroy  ?  Are  they  left- 
handed  the  moment  that  any  good  is  demanded  of 
them  ?  Are  they  paralytic  on  that  side  ?  Do  you 
think  that,  if  Mr.  Fox  had  found  it  coincide  with 
his  politics  or  his  partialities,  to  have  permitted  me 
to  return  to  India  in  1806,  in  the  office  that  was 
full  as  much  my  right  as  it  was  his  to  be  Secretary 
of  State,  I  would  not  have  put  a  stop  to  such 
enormities  ?  All  this  is  written  in  a  great  hurry 
and  intended  for  nothing  but  hints  to  put  you  on 
your  guard. 

"  Nevertheless,  if  you   will  send   missionaries  and 


684  Ube  Brands  Xetters  [1813 

make  converts,  begin  with  yourselves.  Make  Christians 
of  your  own  people,  if  you  can.  Though  God  knows 
I  am  but  a  sinner,  still  I  believe  I  am  now  a  better 
Christian  than  most  of  the  saints,  at  least  according  to 
the  Gospel. 

"  So  here  I  shall  conclude  with  one  general  obser- 
vation, which,  while  you  are  raving  about  Christianity, 
I  think  is  worth  your  attention.  There  is  not  at  this 
day  a  prince  or  power  in  Europe  or  America,  except 
the  Turks,  that  is  not  in  a  state  of  war,  and  happily 
employed  in  cutting  one  another's  throats,  and  they 
are  all  good  Christians,  full  of  charity  to  their  neigh- 
bours, and  passionately  fond  of  propagating  their 
religion  and  converting  heathens.  The  Church  of 
England,  of  itself,  is  wise  and  quiescent.  Our  Bishops, 
in  general,  are  learned  and  prudent  men.  But  they 
are  frightened  by  the  sectaries,  and  forced  to  go  with 
the  tide. 

"  Yours  very  truly,  that  is,  with  a  just  sense  of  your 
abilities  and  perseverance. 

"  P.  FRANCIS." 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  LADY  THANET. 

"I7//&  October,  1814. 

"  Apres  avoir  visitt  le  cercle  A  r clique,  et  ay  ant 
vue  tout  ce  quil  y  avait  a  voir  aux  courses  des 
chevaux  marins  a  Doncastre,  des  bals,  des  festins, 
et  des  ballons  qui  ne  finis  sir ent  pas,  mon  education, 
(au  moins  fen  crois]  est  finie  ;  les  voyages  ne  peuvent 
rien  aj outer  de  plus  ni  de  mieux,  to  my  former  ac- 
complishments. Pour  fare  parfait  il  ne  me  reste  plus, 
qua  rester  en  place,  like  George  Rose,  ainsi  me 


1814]  TTbe  ffrancte  Xetters  685 

voila  plants  a  Brighton  pour  quelques  semaines,  C^est 
a  vous  de  me  dire  comment  va  la  vegetation  a  Hoth- 
field)  a  moins  que  vous  riayez  pas  pris  racine  a 
Appleby,  ou  dans  quelquautre  latitude  plus  cherie 
que  ce  beau  chateau.  My  opinion  is,  sauf  mon 
respect  pour  la  votrey  que  Rastopchin  is  disgraced, 
and  banished  to  Siberia  ;  which,  in  order  to  let  him 
down  gently  on  the  ice,  he  is  at  liberty  to  call  a 
voluntary  retreat,  and  entirely  at  his  own  earnest 
request.  I  know  very  well  from  whom  the  Emperor 
Alexander  took  the  hint,  and  you  know  it  too,  when 
you  kicked  the  fair  Drummer — sweet  innocent !  out 
of  the  house,  only  for  yielding  to  the  tender  passions 
Love  and  Brandy,  and  then  gave  her  an  excellent 
character  to  the  first  place  she  could  get,  to  be 
shut  of  her,  as  they  say  at  Doncaster  Races.  Didn't 
I  see  the  tears  roll  down  her  furrowed  cheeks  as  big 
as  nutmegs  and  nearly  the  colour,  when  she  told  me 
how  the  Frenchman  who  keeps  a  shop  at  Ashford, 
had  ruined  her  reputation  by  offering  her  his  hand 
in  Wedlock,  when  the  traitor  well  knew  she  had 
already  2  husbands  and  3  fine  children  in  the  Stox, 
or  on  them.  If  you  return  me  this  letter  it  will 
do  very  well  for  another  Lady  of  higher  quality  or 
latitude,  and  save  me  from  a  great  waste  of  time 
and  invention,  whereof  I  have  but  little  to  spare  a 
mon  age.  Most  of  my  posterity  are  coming  to  this 
place  to  be  buried  and  have  begged  me  to  stay  to  attend 
their  respective  funerals.  It  comforts  me  however 
to  know  that  my  case  is  exactly  like  yours,  only 
somewhat  the  worse  for  wear,  as  if  it  had  been  in 
Lord  Eldon's  fair  hands  ever  since  you  were  in 


686  tlbe  ffrancts  Xetters 

bibs.  I  cannot  go  anywhere  without  trouble,  or 
stay  anywhere  without  disgust.  Not  that  I  am  weary 
of  the  world,  tale  quale,  but  dog-sick  or  Dantsic  or 
Leipsic,  of  my  own  self.  Having  now  vented  some 
of  my  spite  it  will  mortify  your  sweet  temper  to 
hear  that  I  am  considerably  relieved.  Little  did  I 
think  I  should  ever  live  to  get  over  the  third  page, 
sans  doute  c'est  Fappetit  qui  vient  en  mangeant,  on  la 
soif  a  force  de  boire. 

"...  So  one  of  the  fair  daughters  of  Madame  la 
Marquise,  she  tells  me,  is  married  lately  to  my  old 
friend,  Mellish,  who  assured  me,  at  the  Pavillion,  the 
first  time  I  ever  saw  him,  20  years  agone,  that  he  had 
prudentially  reduced  his  establishment  to  30  horses 
for  no  reason  in  the  world  but  because  he  had  not 
a  guinea  left.  So  I  upt  and  said,  that  was  no 
reason  in  the  world  for  a  gentleman  of  his  appearance 
for  I  did  not  then  know  his  name,  u  c  ive  lernt  to 
spell  by  the  hear  asudoo.  Que  dire  de  plus  ?  nest 
ce  pas  assy'' 

SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  TO  EMMA  WATKINS. 

"  You  are  quite  right  in  thinking  that  it  is  the  love 
of  novelty  &  the  amusement  derived  from  strong 
contrasts  that  makes  Princes  fond  of  vulgarity  at 
times,  wise  men  of  nonsense,  grave  men  of  merriment 
&c.,  &c.  No  man  affects  to  be  what  he  really  is, 
some  of  the  most  elegant  men  I  have  known  could 
on  occasion  be  the  greatest  blackguards,  but  look  at 
a  parvenu,  how  afraid  he  is  of  being  ungenteel  or 
old  fashioned,  and  a  second-rate  man  would  not  say 
a  silly  thing  for  the  world  ;  he  will  talk  Philosophy 


tTbe  jfrancte  ^Letters  687 

at  a  Banquet,  and  Politics  at  a  Play,  but  all  is  second- 
hand, he  must  have  the  stamp  of  authority  for  every- 
thing, and  the  oftener  it  has  been  said  the  more 
likely  you  are  to  hear  it  again  from  him.  Must  I 
become  like  xx  to  please  you  Madam  ?  Alas  !  it  is 
only  too  probable  that  I  shall  soon  be  a  grave  man, 
as  our  friend  Mercutio  says.  It  is  only  lately  that  I 
have  felt  any  wish  to  defer  that  transition  though 
I  am  only  a  Boy  compared  with  old  Isaac.  Tell 
me  honestly  whether  you  think  he  would  have 
reached  90  if  his  head  had  always  been  among  the 
stars  and  not  sometimes  under  the  bed  hunting  his 
kitten  ? 

"  We  have  it  in  circulation  here  that  Her  Majesty 
the  Queen  and  the  Royal  Family  are  coming  in  a 
few  days  to  the  Pavillion.  Of  course  great  doings 
are  expected  which  I  shall  avoid  if  I  can  without 
committing  absolute  treason.  I  do  not  love  the 
Strelitzia  Regina,  but  do  not  whisper  it  to  the  reeds 
of  the  Don  ;  it  may  be  as  well  for  that  royal  personage, 
for  most  of  the  Queens  who  have  won  my  heart  have 
lost  their  own  heads,  Mary  Stuart,  Anna  Boleyn, 
Jane  Gray,  and  Marie  Antoinette ;  not  that  I  would 
have  sacrificed  the  best  interests  of  this  Country,  and 
incurrred  a  debt  which  would  be  a  Millstone  round 
her  neck  from  Generation  to  Generation  to  avenge 
her  death  who  was  the  most  smiling  perfidious  foe 
to  England.  Franklin  told  her  plainly  that  but  for 
the  instigations  and  promises  of  her  Cabinet,  for  it 
was  hers,  and  poor  Louis  was  a  cypher,  they,  the 
Americans,  durst  never  have  thought  of  breaking 
with  England,  and  that  France  must  assist  them 


688  Ube  ffrancte  Xetters  [1814 

openly  as  well  as  covertly  (which  she  had  done  in 
spite  of  all  her  professions  to  us  of  perfect  neutrality) 
or  they  must  throw  themselves  at  our  feet  and  sing 
"  peccavi."  It  was  sport  to  her  Majesty's  gay 
Courtiers  to  see  her  most  winning  smiles  bestowed 
on  the  old  Quiz  of  a  Quaker,  he  was  her  preux 
chevalier,  her  Knight,  though  she  loved  a  republican 
as  Satan  does  holy  water,  and  in  her  heart  considered 
him  a  wicked  rebel  who  deserved  the  block  at  least. 
Time  will  shew  all  this  and  more  which  would  make 
each  particular  ringlet  on  your  head  stand  upright 
like  quills  upon  the  fretful  Porcupine,  to  say  nothing 
of  what  would  become  of  your  eyes,  to  prevent  which 
catastrophe  revenons  a  nos  moutons.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
F[rancis]  and  Mrs.  Cholmondeley  came  yesterday 
from  T.  B.  W.  to  look  out  for  sheds,  to  cover  their 
heads,  With  chambers  and  beds.  But  none  to  be 
had  which  makes  them  all  sad,  so  they  go  back 
tomorrow,  with  hearts  full  of  sorrow,  and  craws  full 
of  stuffing,  tea  crumpets  and  muffin.  They  came  in 
as  hungry  as  the  rocks  on  Mount  Ephraim,  my  Larder 
won't  recover  it  these  three  days.  They  say  they  are 
made  much  of  at  the  Wells,  and  considered  the  flower 
of  the  company  there.  As  to  the  first  I  see  no 
outward  symptoms  of  it,  the  other  may  very  well 
be  for  every  kind  of  meal  seemed  to  suit  them. 
Send  your  next  in  this  cover  and  I  pray  you  be 
not  so  short.  .  .  .  Your  perfidious  friend  has  my  leave 
to  love  me  as  much  as  she  dares,  but  I  shall  break 
her  heart  for  her  pains  were  it  *  of  one  entire  and 
perfect  Chrysolite.'  I  have  these  tender  passions 
declared  to  me  every  day,  but  such  chafif  won't  catch 


GEORGE  JAMES   CHOLMONDELEY. 


To  face  page  688.] 


1 8 14]  ZTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  689 

anything  better  than  Tomtits.  Alas  !  I  fear  all  this 
wooing  tells  but  the  fatal  truth  that  the  Parish  register 
of  my  first  appearance  on  any  stage  is  written  in  sad 
characters  upon  my  brow,  that  is  if  registers  were 
then  in  use.  .  .  ." 

The  hungry  party  described  here  were  Philip  and 
his  wife,  and  Sir  Philip's  faithful  daughter  Catherine. 
After  the  death  of  her  mother  and  three  unmarried 
sisters,  Catherine  remained  mistress  of  her  father's 
house  and  his  chief  companion  till  she  married  Mr. 
George  James  Cholmondeley,  shortly  before  Sir 
Philip's  second  marriage  in  1814.  She  appears  to 
have  been  a  most  lovable  character,  and  to  have 
kept  the  peace,  as  far  as  in  her  lay,  among  the  more 
irritable  members  of  the  family. 

CATHERINE  CHOLMONDELEY  TO  HER   FATHER,  ON  HIS 

MARRIAGE  WITH  Miss  WATKINS. 

"  TUNBRIDGE  WELLS, 
"December  n,  1814. 

"  MY  DEAR  SIR, 

"  Believe  me  I  cannot  hear  of  the  event 
which  your  letter  communicates  without  feeling  the 
most  earnest  and  most  affectionate  interest  in  it. 
Your  happiness  must,  as  long  as  I  live,  make  an 
essential  part  of  mine.  We — you  will  readily  under- 
stand that  when  I  say  we,  I  mean  Mr.  Cholmondeley 
and  myself — are  anxious  to  come  to  London  as  soon 
as  you  will  like  to  see  us,  that  we  may  both  in  person 
offer  our  congratulations  to  yourself,  and  to  her  whom 
you  gaily  call  my  stepmother,  but  who,  I  trust,  will 
always  find  in  me  a  dutiful  daughter-in-law.  I  will 


69o  Ube  ifrancis  Xetters  [1814 

not  apologise  for  the  shortness  of  this  letter  to  you, 
who  were  never  fond  of  long  ones,  and  who  want  no 
assurance  of  my  being  your  truly 

"  affectionate  daughter, 

"  CATHERINE  CHOLMONDELEY. 

"  May  you,  my  dear  sir,  be  very  long  as  happy  as 
you  have  made  me. 

"  G[eorge]  J[ames]  C[holmondeley]." 

SIR  P.  FRANCIS  TO  MARY  JOHNSON,  WRITTEN  A  YEAR 
AFTER  HIS  MARRIAGE. 

"i  8  Nwr.>  1815. 

"  DEAR  MARY, 

"  They,  who  tell  you  that  I  am  much  better 
since  I  came  to  town,  talk  at  their  ease,  as  most 
people  do  about  the  sufferings  of  others.  In  truth, 
my  life  is  a  burthen  to  me,  and  has  been  so  a  long 
time.  ...  I  am  glad  you  have  passed  your  time  so 
happily,  and  that  Mary  finds  that  gaiety  and  merriment 
agree  with  her.  But  why  is  Katharine  left  out,  or 
is  she  ?  In  contributing  to  the  happiness  of  your 
daughters,  you  insure  your  own,  and  there  is  no 
other  way. 

The  place  I  had  in  Surrey  was  every  way  desirable 
and  enjoyable,  with  accommodations  of  every  sort, 
such  as  Cows,  milk,  butter,  Cream,  vegetables,  sundry 
geese  and  fowls,  with  various  Pigs  &c.,  but,  even 
with  their  Company,  it  grew  solitary.  My  lady  here, 
who  is  my  indefatigable  nurse  and  physician,  desires 
her  love  to  you  and  her  duty  to  those  young  gentle- 
women her  quondam  playfellows." 

No   letters   have    been    preserved    written    to    Sir 


jfrancte  Xetters  69i 

Philip  Francis  by  his  second  wife,  who  survived  him 
many  years.     He  died  in  December,   1818. 

The  following  letter  was  written  by  Lady  Francis 
to  a  friend  a  few  days  after  her  husband's  death  : — 

"  I  was  alone  with  him  in  his  last  moments.  .  .  . 
Never  was  a  death  so  worthy  of  such  a  life :  his 
spirits  composed,  tranquil,  and  even  cheerful,  his 
mind  apparently  as  strong  as  ever  and  his  perception 
as  quick.  He  expressed  his  gratitude  for  all  my 
little  attentions  and  cares  during  the  last  sad,  solemn 
night,  in  the  most  touching  manner.  I  was  not  aware 
at  the  time,  though  I  now  am,  that  he  .knew  how 
short  his  time  was.  He  showed  great  anxiety  that 
I  should  not  leave  him  for  a  moment,  no  doubt  he 
anticipated  my  future  regrets  had  I  done  so ;  but  he 
never  expressed  fear  or  anxiety  on  any  other  subject. 
Towards  morning  he  fell  into  a  trance,  from  which 
he  revived  and  spoke  to  me,  and  took  some  refresh- 
ment. About  ten  he  fell  into  a  deep  sleep,  which 
lasted  four  hours.  I  was  flattering  myself  with  the 
hope  of  his  waking  much  restored,  Mrs.  Cholmondeley 
had  just  left  me,  when,  on  a  sudden,  the  breathing 
I  had  been  listening  to  so  contentedly  stopped.  I 
undrew  the  curtain  .  .  .  not  a  sigh,  not  a  motion,  not 
a  change  of  countenance.  Heart,  pulses  and  breath 
stopped  at  once  without  an  effort." 


Printed  by  Haaell,  Watson,  <S>  Vine*,  Ld.t  London  and  AyUsbitry. 


INDEX. 


Barrington,  Lord,  to  Philip  Francis  (Cavendish  Square,  Sept.  4,  1773), 

159 
Bourke,  John,  to  Philip  Francis  (London,  Oct.  29,  1776),  270;  (ditto, 

June   27,    1777),   281;    (ditto,   Jan.    14,    1778),   302;    (ditto, 

May  17,  1778),  305 

Burke,  Edmund, — 

to  Mrs.  Francis  (Gerrard  Street,  April  20,  1787),  371 
to  Philip  Francis  (June  9,   1777),  283 ;    (Beaconsfield,    Nov.  23, 
1785),  3591  (Aug.  6,  1786),  364;  (Nov.  8,  1786),  367;  (Jan.  2, 
1787),  37o;  (?  1788)  376;  (Gerrard  Street,  Feb.  20,  1790),  380 

Chandler,  Mr.   George,  to   Philip  Francis  (Preston  Street,  March  30, 
1774),  161 

Cholmondeley,   Catherine,    to  Sir  Philip   Francis  (Tunbridge   Wells, 
Dec.  11,  1814),  689 

Clive,  Lady,  to  Philip  Francis  (Walcot,  Aug.  31,  1773),  152  ;  (March  30, 
1774),  161 

Devonshire,  Georgiana,  Duchess  of,  to  Philip  Francis  (Nov.  29,  1798), 

435 
D'Oyly,  Christopher,  to  Philip  Francis  (April  20,  1777),  300 

Fitzgerald,  Caroline,  to  Sarah  Francis  (Hampton  Court  Palace,  Oct.  I, 
1807),  641  ;  (ditto,  Nov.  14,  1807),  644 

Francis,  Catherine, — 

to  Mrs.  Francis  (Brighton,  Oct.  18,  1795),  416 
to  Philip  Francis,  junior  (Exeter,  Feb.  27,  1805),  603 
to  Mrs.  (Mary)  Johnson  (St.  James's  Square,  July,  1798),  426 ;  450  ; 
(London,   Feb.    n,    1801),  465;   (Broadlands,    ?  1801),  467; 
(St.  James's  Square,  March  19,  1801),  469;  (April,  1801),  473, 
475;  (London,  Nov.  25,  1802),  513;  (March  14,   1806),  632; 
(Blackheath,  March  19),  634 
VOL.    II.  ^  23 


694 

Francis,  Elizabeth, — 

to  Catherine  Francis  (June,  1805),  609;  (Ramsgate,  June  9,  1805), 
611,612;  (ditto,  June,  1805),  615 ;  (St.  James's  Square),  616; 
617,  633;  (Aldborough,  Oct.  20,  1809),  657;  (ditto,  ?Oct.  I, 
1809),  657 

to  Mrs.  Francis  (Broadlands,  Sept.  25,  1801),  483 ;  521 

to  a  Sister  (Nov.,  1802),  512 
Francis,  Harriet, — 

to  Mrs.  Francis  (Brighton,  Oct.  4,  1797),  422 ;  (Waverley,  Jan.  4, 
1802),  488 

to  Mrs.  (Mary)  Johnson  (St.  James's  Square,  March  12,  1792),  397 ; 
(Margate,  Oct.  21,  1793),  405;  (St.  James's  Square,  June  22, 
1796),  419;  (Brighton,  Oct.  27,  1797),  420;  (March  11,  1799), 
449;  (Courteen  Hall,  Sept.  18,  1799),  451  ;  (Brighton,  Oct.  II, 
1799X456;  (Waverley,  Jan.  29,  1801),  466;  (Broadlands,?! 80 1), 
467,  468,  470;  (Sheen),  471 ;  (March  23,  1801),  472;  (April  6, 
1801),  472,  476,  477,478  ;  (June  2,  i8oi),479;  (Waverley,  July 
6,  1801),  481;  (London,  Sept.  25,  1801),  484;  (?Feb.,  1802),  492 

Francis,  Mrs.,  to  her  Husband  (London,  March  30,  1774),  170 ;  (ditto, 
April  15,  1774),  191;  (to  end  Oct.,  1774),  210;  (Nov.  22, 
1774),  234 ;  (Jan.  i,  1776),  275  ;  (Feb.  13,  1777),  276 ;  (June  2, 
1777),  277;  (Aug.  28,  1777),  278;  286;  (Nov.  7,  1777),  298; 
(Jan.  12,  1778),  315 ;  (June  2,  1778),  321 ;  (Nov.  18,  1780),  335  ; 
(Jan.  26,  1781),  337 

Francis,  Philip, — 

to  Mr.  Allen  at  Lisbon  (London,  Feb.  4,  1766),  72 

to  Major  Philip  Baggs  (War  Office,  Jan.,  1772),  133;  (ditto,  March 

20,  1772),  134 

to  Lord  Barrington  (Margate,  Sept.  6,  1773),  160 

to  John  Bourke  (Calcutta,  March  20,  1776),  264 

to  John  Bristow  in  India  (London,  April  15,  1786),  360,  388  ;  (Feb. 

21,  1793)  403 

to  Mrs.  Bristow  (April  17,  1796),  419 
to  Edmund  Burke  (Feb.  19,  1790),  377 
to  Dr.  Campbell  (Rome,  Oct.  17,  1772),  137 
to  Sir  R.  Chambers  (St.  James's  Square,  April  27,  1791),  386 
to  Mr.  Chandler  (March,  1766),  274;  278,  300 
to  L.  Collings  in  India  (London,  April  17,  1796),  417 
to  his  Daughters  (Bath,  March  5, 1795),  409 ;  (Chatsworth,  Sept.  12, 
1798),  428;  (ditto,  Sept.  1 6,  1798),  429;  (ditto,  Sept.  18,  1798), 
431  ;  (Petworth,  Oct.  27,  1799),  458;  (St.  James's  Square,  July  4, 
1800),  459;  (Brighton,  Aug.  19,  1800),  461  ;  (July  3, 1 80 1),  480; 
(Hothfield,  Sept.  30,  1803),  525;  (Brighton,  Nov.  27,  1806),  677; 
(Ragley,  Sept.  8,  1809),  652 ;  (ditto,  Sept.  10,  1809),  653 


695 

Francis,  Philip  (continued}, — 

to  his  Daughter  Catherine  (Bath,  March  n,  1795),  410;  (Brighton, 
Aug.  8,  1800),  460;  (Hothfield,  Jan.  24,  1802),  490;  (ditto, 
Sept.  26,  1802),  494;  (ditto,  Oct.  5,  1802),  503 ;  (ditto,  Dec.  26, 
1802),  514 ;  (Nov.  6,  1803),  528  ;  (Dec.  6,  1803),  531  ;  (Brighton, 
Oct.  17,  1804),  586;  (ditto,  Oct.  2,  1804),  586;  (ditto,  Dec.  20, 
1805),  630;  (Oct.  9,  1806),  636;  (Maidstone,  Sept.  22,  1807), 
640;  (?  Berkeley  Castle,  Nov.  10,  1807),  642;  (Worthing, 
July  4,  1808),  646;  (Hothfield,  Dec.,  1808),  647;  (Berkeley 
Castle,  Sept.  22,  1809),  654;  (Dublin,  Aug.  2,  1810),  658; 
(Hillsborough,  Sept.  13,  1810),  659;  (Dec.  9,  1810),  663; 
(Brighton,  April  16,  1811),  664:  (Oct.  29,  1811),  665 

to  his  Daughter  Elizabeth  (Brighton,  Oct.  21, 1791),  391  ;  (Thornhill, 
Jan.  11,  1794),  408;  (Bath,  March  15,  1795),  412;  (ditto, 
March  31,  1795),  413  ;  (Oct.  7,  1795),  4'5  I  (Oct.  9,  1795),  415  ; 
(Hothfield,  Oct.  4,  1801),  485;  (ditto,  Nov.  29,  1801),  488; 
(Brighton,  Oct.  21,  1802),  508 

to  his  Daughter  Harriet  (Bath,  March  12,  1795),  411;  (Brighton, 
Aug.  5,  1798),  427  ;  (Woburn,  July  19,  1799),  451 ;  (Brighton, 
July  28,  1799),  454;  (Woburn,  July  7,  1801),  462  ;  (Hothfield, 
Nov.  25,  1801),  488  ;  (Jan.  16,  1802),  489;  (Hothfield,  Jan.  24, 
1802),  491 ;  (Appleby  Castle,  July  7,  1802),  493 

to  his  Daughter  Sarah  (Paris,  Jan.  24,  1803),  522 

to  Sir  John  Day  (London,  Nov.  24,  1781),  344 

to  Georgiana,  Duchess  of  Devonshire  (Nov.  24,  1798),  432  ;  (Dec.  3, 
1798),  439;  (Dec.  5,  1798),  442 

to  Lord  Dovvnshire  (Oct.  28,  1811),  664 

to  Christopher  D'Oyly  (Calcutta,  Jan.  22, 1776),  248 ;  274;  (Aug.  4, 

I790»  390 

to  his  Father  (Portsmouth,  July  24,  1758),  37  ;  (at  sea,  Aug.  19, 
1758),  39;  Portsmouth,  Feb.  14,  1760),  41;  (ditto,  Feb.  21, 
1760),  42;  (Lisbon,  March  30,  1760),  43;  (ditto,  April  14, 
1760),  47 ;  (ditto,  May  17,  1760),  47  ;  (ditto,  June  8,  1760),  49 ; 
(ditto,  June  22,  1760),  52  ;  (ditto,  July  24,  1760),  53  ;  (ditto, 
Aug.  22,  1760),  54;  (ditto,  Oct.  11,  1760),  56;  (ditto,  Oct.  29, 
1760),  57 

to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  (Paris,  Nov.  7,  1791),  394 

to  General  Fraser  (Calcutta,  Aug.  21,  1776),  267 

to  a  Friend  in  Calcutta  (St.  Helena,  July  26, 1781),  314 ;  (March  15, 

1785),  358 
to  D.  Godfrey,  274;  (Sept.  16,  1776),  320;  (Feb.  4,  1778),  3°6; 

(March  2,  1780),  307;  (Nov.  17,  1780),  313 
to  Edward   Hay  in   India  (London,  Jan.  24,   1782),  350;    (ditto, 

May  22,  1787),  373 
to  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Hay  at  Barbadoes  (London,  Nov.  4,  I773)i  !54 


696 

Francis,  Philip  (continued), — 

to  Miss  Holden  at  Fulham  (Duke  Street,  Nov.  13,  1773),  156 

to  George  Horseley  at  Bombay  (London,  Jan.  15,  1782),  348 

to  Colonel  Ironside  (Nov.  5,  1780),  312 

to  Eliza  Johnson  (Hothfield,  Jan.  8,  1804),  533  ;  (Brighton,  Jan.  22, 
1804),  561;  (ditto,  Jan.  26,  1804),  563;  (Ramsgate,  Aug.  31, 
1804),  580 

to  Mrs.  (Mary)  Johnson  (Hothfield,  Sept.  27,  1803),  526 ;  (ditto, 
Sept.  14,  1804),  583;  (Brighton,  Oct.  14,  1804),  584;  (Nov.  18, 
1815),  690 

Journal  of  (May  9,  1777),  280 ;  (June  30,  1777),  284  ;  (Jan.  3,  1778), 
301 ;  (Dec.  11,  1778),  306;  (Aug.  5,  1780),  308;  (Nov.  7,  1780), 
313;  (Oct.  18,  1780,314 

to  Mr.  Livius  in  India  (London,  Jan.  14,  1782),  351 

/^.Mackenzie  in  India  (London,  Nov.  24,  1781),  343;  (ditto,  April 
15,  1786),  362 

to  Alexander  Mackrabie  (War  Office,  Dec.  5,  1767),  78;  London, 
March  12,  1768),  87;  (ditto,  April  16,  1768),  92;  (ditto,  May 
14,  1768),  93;  (War  Office,  June  II,  1768),  96;  (London,  Oct. 
3,  1768),  101  ;  (War  Office,  Jan.  4,  1769),  103;  (ditto,  April  5, 
1769),  105  ;  (London,  May  5,  1769),  105  ;  (War  Office,  June  7, 
1769),  106  ;  (ditto,  Feb.  7,  1770),  in  ;  (Margate,  July  I,  1770), 
119;  (London,  Feb.  12,  1771),  124;  (War  Office,  May  I,  1771), 
125;  (ditto,  Sept.  4,  1771),  126;  (ditto,  Dec.  4,  1771),  127 

to  Viscountess  Palmerston  (St.  James's  Square,  March  10,  1792), 

397 

to  Mr.  Perry,  of  the  Chronicle  (Brighton,  Oct.  19,  1813),  680 

to  George  Shee  (London,  Jan.  15,  1782),  346;  (ditto,  Dec.  4,  1786), 
368 

to  his  Son  Philip  (Calcutta,  Sept.  16,  1776),  269;  (Aug.  16,  1806), 
633;  (Hothfield,  Aug.  25,  1809),  652 

to  Henry  Strachey  (Calcutta,  Jan.  22,  1776),  252 

to  the  Earl  of  Thanet  (Brighton,  Oct.  14,  1803),  527  ;  (April  5,  1804), 
566;  (May  10,  1804),  570;  (May  17,  1804),  570;  (May  23, 
1804),  572;  (May  25,  1804),  573;  (May  29,  1804),  573; 
(Ramsgate,  Aug.  31,  1804),  582  ;  (Tunbridge  Wells,  Sept.  6, 
1812),  667 

to  Lady  Thanet  (Dec.,  1803),  530;  (Brighton  Jan.  22,  1804),  560; 
(Feb.  29,  1804),  564;  (St.  James's  Square,  April  19,  1804), 
566;  (April  26,  1804),  568;  (May  21,  1804),  571;  (June  14, 
1804),  574;  (July  3,  1804),  575;  (St.  James's  Square,  Nov.  10, 
1804),  587;  (Berkeley  Castle,  Nov.  u,  1807),  643;  (Oct.  17, 
1814),  684 

to  George  Thicknesse  (Upper  Harley  Street,  March  3,  1785),  357 

to  Edward  Tilghman,  Philadelphia  (London,  April  27,  1793),  404 


697 

Francis,  Philip  (continued}, — 

to  Richard  Tilghman  (April  14,  1785),  356 

to  Miss  Emma  Watkins,  649,  655 ;  (Tunbridge  Wells),  66 1  ; 
(St.  James's  Square),  666 ;  679  (2),  686 

to  Edward  Wheler,  Calcutta  (London,  Nov.  24,  1781),  339;  (ditto, 
Jan.  18,  1782),  349;  (ditto,  Jan.  12,  1785),  355 

to  his  Wife  (Duke  Street,  June  28,  1764),  65 ;  (July  6,  1764),  66; 
(July  10,  1764),  67  ;  (July  28,  1764),  68;  (June  8,  1765),  70; 
(June  n,  1765),  71  ;  (June  18,  1770),  129;  (July  10,  1770),  130; 
(Bath,  Dec.  23,  1770),  130;  (June  19,  1771),  131 ;  (Manchester, 
Aug.  4,  1771),  131;  (Bath,  Dec.  24,  1771),  132;  (WTalcot, 
July  24,  1773),  H9;  (ditto,  July  31,  1773),  150;  (Aug.  27,  1773), 
151;  158;  (London,  March  30,  1774),  162;  285;  (Calcutta, 
March  5,  1777),  297;  (ditto,  Nov.  17,  1780),  313;  (Paulton's, 
Dec.  31,  1781),  345  ;  (Oakley  Park,  June  20,  1782),  352  ;  (Spa, 
Belgium,  Aug.  19,  1783),  353;  (Paris,  Sept.  7,  1784),  354  J 
(ditto,  Sept.,  1786),  366;  (ditto,  Oct.  30,  1791),  392;  (Aug.  8, 
1792),  402 ;  (Brighton,  Dec.  8,  1798),  445 ;  447,  448  ;  (Brighton, 
Oct.  14,  1802),  504;  (Hothfield,  Sept.  23,  1803),  524 

Francis,  Philip,  Jun., — 

to  his  Family  (Courteen  Hall,  1800),  462 

to  his  Father  (Aldeburgh,  Aug.  22,  1809),  649;  (Brighton,  Nov.  25, 

1812),  671;  (ditto,  Dec.  3,  1812),  671;  (Dec.  10,  1812),  672; 

(Brighton,  Dec.  16,  1812),  673;  (ditto,  Dec.  20,   1812),  675; 

(ditto,  Dec.  25,  1812),  677 

to  his  Mother  (Rouen,  July  31,  1792),  400;  (Aix,  Feb.  7,  1803),  520 
to  his  Sister  Catherine  (Ramsgate,  Aug.  5,  1804),  579  ;  (St.  James's 

Square,  Dec.  u,   1804),  588;  (Temple,  Jan.  17,  1805),  596; 

(ditto,  Jan.  26,  1805),  597 ;  (ditto,  Feb.  4, 1805),  598  ;  (Ramsgate, 

Aug.  13,  1805),  619;  (Tunbridge  Wells,  Jan.  13,  1807),  639 
to  his  Sister  Elizabeth  (Hothfield,  Jan.  12,  1804),  559 
to  his  Sister  Harriet  (Cambridge,  June  10,  1787),  374 
to  his  Sister  Sarah  (Paris,  Aug.  14,  1802)  499 
to  a  Sister  (Nov.,  1802),  511 

Francis,  The  Rev.  Philip,  D.D.,  to  his  Son  Philip  (act.  13),  35  ;  (Sept.  26, 
1754).  36,  38;  (London,  July  27,  1758),  38;  (ditto,  Aug.  24, 
1758),  40;  (re  Lord  Kinnoul),  42  ;  (March  25,  1760),  46;  49; 
(Sept.  16,  1760),  55;  (London,  Oct.  14,  1760),  57;  (Bath, 
Sept.  3,  1768),  89;  (ditto,  Oct.  6,  1768),  101  ;  (undated),  146 

Francis,  Sarah,  to  Mrs.  (Mary)  Johnson  (St.  James's  Square,  Sunday, 
,  1792)  399  ;  (East  Sheen,  early  in  1800),  458 

Francis,  Colonel  Turbutt,  to  Philip  Francis  (Philadelphia,  May  4,  177°). 
"5 


698 

Fullerton,  Mrs.,  to  Mrs.  Johnson  (Richmond,  Oct.  13,  1801),  486 

Godfrey,  D.,  to  Philip  Francis  (London,  Feb.  17,  1776),  252  ;  (May  21, 
1776),  264;  (Jan.  3,  1778),  301 

Godfrey,  John,  to  Philip  Francis  (1802),  517 

Gunn,  Miss  Anne,  to  Sarah  Francis  (Brighton,  Nov.  11,  1805^,  623 
Gunn,  Miss  Matilda,  to  Sarah  Francis  (Ramsgate,  Dec.  2,  1806),  638 
Hodges,  Mrs.,  to  Mrs.  Johnson  (Boulney  Court,  Jan.  6,  1804),  534 

Johnson,  Eliza, — 

to  Catherine  Francis  (Sloane  Street,  1803),  531  ;  (Boulney  Court, 

Jan.  9,  1804),  538;  541,  545,  548,  552,  555,  557 
to  Elizabeth  and  Catherine  Francis  (Boulney  Court),  536 
to  Sarah  Francis  (Paris,  Jan.  24,   1803),  523;  (Exeter,  Dec.  31, 

1804),  590 

Johnson,  Godschall,  to  Mrs.  Johnson  (June  7,  1805),  610;  (Halliford, 
1805),  613 

Johnson,   Godschall,  Jun.,  to  Mrs.  Johnson  (Oriel  College,  May  18, 
1798),  424 

Johnson,  Katherine,  to  Sarah  Francis  (Tunbridge  Wells,  Dec.  2,  1807), 
646 

Johnson,  Mrs.  (Mary), — 

Diary  of  (Dec.  13,  1804),    591;    (Jan.  28,   1805),  600;  (Feb.   27, 

1805),  605 ;  621 

to  Catherine  Francis  (Nov.  27,  1805),  628 
to  Philip  Francis  (South  Parade,  Nov.  19,  1802),  513 
to  Sarah  Francis  (South  Parade,  Dec.  27,  1802),  515 
to  her  Sisters  (Brighton,   1802),  505;  (Tunbridge  Wells,  Dec.  2, 
1807),  645 

Llewelynn,  Miss,  to  Mrs.  Francis,  425 

Mackrabie,  Alexander, — 

to  the  Rev.  Stephen  Baggs  (Earl  of  Ashburnham,  Spithead,  April 
7,  1774),  167 ;  (Fort  William,  1775),  232 

Diary  of  Voyage  to  East  Indies  (on  board  Ashbttrnham,  March  30, 
1774),  164;  (April  9,  1774),  168;  (April  21,  1774),  176; 
(Madeira,  April  24  to  May  I,  1774),  179;  (Southern  Hemi- 
sphere, June,  1774),  180;  (July  17,  1774),  188  ;  (Ceylon,  Sept. 
16,  1774),  204 

to  Alexander  Duncan,  Esq.  (Madeira,  April  25,  1774),  177 

to  Mr.  Eden  (Calcutta,  Dec.  7,  1774),  219 


699 

Mackrabie,  Alexander  (continued}, — 

to  his  Family  (Calcutta,  Jan.  14,  1775),  222;  (Feb.  24,  1775),  225 

to  his  Father  (Madeira,  April,  1774),  177;  (Symond's  Bay,  July  14, 
1774),  184;  (Calcutta,  Nov.  30,  1774),  217;  (ditto,  March  23, 
1775).  230 

w  Mrs.  Francis  (Philadelphia,  March  9,  1768),  89;  (Calcutta, 
March  25,  1775),  233 

to  Philip  Francis  (on  board  the  Dragon,  Sept.  13,  1767),  75; 
(Philadelphia,  Oct.  8,  1767),  76;  (Bristol,  Penn.,  Jan.  20,  1768;, 
79;  (Philadelphia,  Feb.  18,  1768),  82;  (ditto,  March  5,  1768), 
84;  (New  York,  June  4,  1768),  94 ;  (ditto,  June  13,  1768),  97  ; 
(ditto,  June  15,  1768),  98;  (Philadelphia,  Aug.  17,  1768),  99; 
(ditto,  Jan.  2,  1769),  102;  (ditto,  Jan.  28,  1769),  104;  (ditto, 
Aug.  10,  1769),  106;  (ditto,  Dec.  12,  1769),  108 ;  (ditto,  Jan.  2, 
1770),  109;  (ditto,  March  10,  1770),  in;  (ditto,  April  24,  1770), 
112;  (ditto,  May  4,  r77o),  113;  (ditto,  June  9,  1770),  117; 
(ditto,  June  20,  1770),  118;  (Fort  Pitt,  July  14,  1770),  120; 
(Philadelphia,  Nov.  9,  1770),  123 

to  a  Friend  in  America  (Calcutta,  Dec.  20,  1774),  220 

Journal  of  (Calcutta,  Nov.  3,  1775),  256 

to  John  Kirkman  (Madeira,  April  26,  1774),  178 

to  Richard  Tilghman  (Calcutta),  222;  (ditto,  Feb.  26,  1775X228; 
(ditto,  March  15,  1775),  230 

Mackrabie,  Elizabeth, /0  Philip  Francis  (July  10,  1761),  60;  (Fulham, 
July  23,  1761),  6 1 ;  (ditto,  Sept.  11,  1761),  63 

Tilghman,  Richard,  to  Philip  Francis  (Philadelphia,  Nov.    10,    1771), 
127;  145  ;  (Aug.  30,  1773),  157  ;  (London,  Jan.  24,  1777),  276 


DA  Francis,    (Sir)  Philip 

506  The  Francis  letters 


1901 
v.2 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


i 


