nh rhe 4 Py \, Y 
vy, ‘ 7 y Mi A ‘ 3 , 


>, 4! . 
~ 
fav! 
Wy Ww? / 


7 


‘ 


Laas 
ty 
>» "ar ALS A 


Ve Vee ver VEEN 


CALIFORNIA 
THEOLOGICAL 


BAPTIST 
SEMINARY 


Covina 


Pee 


JUANIUS. 


STAT NOMINIS UMBRA. 


VOLE 


NFER, PATERNOSTER-ROW, 1 


hae Sn? 


pabe= - 


¢ 
rf: 


JIQPNAIA BS: 


INCLUDING 


LETTERS 
BY THE SAME WRITER, UNDER OTHER SIGNATURES, 


(NOW FIRST COLLECTED.) 


TO WHICH ARE ADDED, 


HIS CONFIDENTIAL CORRESPONDENCE 


WITH 


MR. WILKES, 


PRIVATE LETTERS 


ADDRESSED TO 


MR. H. S. WOODFALL. 


WITH 
A PRELIMINARY ESSAY, NOTES, FAC-SIMILES, &c. 


IN THREE VOLUMES. 


vy 


- Bs ayn AR ¥ 
VOL. Tani SEMINAS 


“STAT NOMINIS UMBRA; 
r ———__+_4- 


J 


LONDON : 


PRINTED BY G. WOODFALL, 


FOR F. C. AND J. RIVINGTON 5; T. PAYNE} WILKIE AND ROBINSON 3 
LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN; CADELL AND 
DAVIES; J. MURRAY; J. MAWMAN; AND R. BALDWIN, 


1812. 


i \ 
’ * 
oe * < oe ye "ee * fees. 
, 2) ee: FE: ¢- ES = 
> ee. od vs . Fa 5 
: os | ie. : J 
is ps 
>> 2 Or oh 
ae i 4 Y. . 
eyes ae 7% 
CAM AV 2 WOH A hs AE 
(ataed iat Jes 
: 
* 
i) lat /< at fi ‘ ; 
- e tw ¥ > 
. ~ _ 
us Pie. f; ai tt. 
. ae® ain rs —— 
. ~~ i as an > dat ey . ‘ 
' «it Li At 
6 > egies bres ; 
al . “as es RS 
op ; MV Ac Ceh tah men wes Oe 
> tn ‘ en 
5 Ly i 


> 
i 


. * , F 5 i —_ im 
SE Ghar stadn Tt ati Ov bd. (iii be 


tl 


Tor “_* . pe ae 


jd ytd 


BI, 4 
fae epee aaa 
a AD | { 4. aut ; 
Rey PNA pe 
Mien? 69 Shep roan dt) berated Js 


Saaaguanbiss reat woh ie AER mas ygie 

BA IAI I ec cnn 
line gt egg eye ; aa 
‘haven. eteesanai 


‘TABLE OF CONTENTS. 


VOL. I. 


PAGE 


SPER VEStED ES EIMLEGIN Binet, tot eso as ots cadannedtscuhesses Vv 
PRELIMINARY ESSAY ...... oresecereadeasees ben seeeees Ps 


Mr. Burke’s opinion of Junius, note.sereereeee  *5 
Lord North’s $v asecesoeess The abe 
Story of the late Duke of Richmond and W. G. 


Hamilton, note........... Eaten ass can dvede Pe datenders Sa ae 
Opinion of the style of Junius by a Contemporary 

hostile writer, note.......0+ss00 Caaaghaceeecsss caders sone * 89 
Persons to whom the letters have been attributed...... 22g 
On the pretensions of Mr. Charles Lloyd ............*100 
as John Roberts......... siganeae ib. 
—_—_—_——— Samuel Dyer..........00eeee ab. 


The Rt. Hon. Edm. Burke....*101 
Extracts from Mr. Burke’s speech on American 
TAKALON soo. cescercvecrens Wie cenddnadocnecdrpcntncacstecssdy *104 
On the pretensions of the Rt. Hon. W. G. Hamilton.,*116 
Extracts from Mr. Malone’s Preface to Parliamen- 
tary Logic, in disproof that Hamilton was the 
writer Of JUNIUS.....0.02000+ besweveessecvoses sees cooss 00, 
On the pretensions of Dr. Butler, bishop of Hereford.*119 
the Rev. Philip Rosenhagen...*121 
General Charles Lee..........+. 2b. 
Extracts from General Lee’s Lonel, coctienl20 
On the pretensions of Mr. Wilkes.,......-ssseesoereeee® 133 
Mr. Hugh Macauley Boyd 2b. 


vi CONTENTS. 


PAGE 
On the pretensions of Mr. Dunning, afterwards Lord 

Ashburtotiss...0«cdsesssvenenseas asapercgeets dx anes *155 
On the pretensions of Henry Flood, Esq. M. P. of 

Tre@bamidl f.:apc Bageek Ss «chee s Bebe ds. Sede. ce bee anata *156 
Extracts from a speech of Mr. Flood pes aia *158 
On the pretensions of Lord George Sackville........ *160 

PRIVATE LETTERS addressed to Mr. H. S. Woop- 

FALL DY J UNIUS pssrosges+acasscetese+<4asege «nin eieeee *163 
Middlesex Petition to the King, note..........-s0006 *166 
City of London — NOC. «++ -sceeaeaneeee *175 
Lord Holland’s Letter to the Lord Mayor, (Mr. 

Beckforth) snatessssi002555535. ntvectee sce ete *177 

_ Mr. Beckford’s answer to the foregoing note ....... *178 


Letter to a Liveryman, being a 

further answer to Lord Holland’s Letter, note,...*179 
Lord Holland’s Letter to Mr. H. S. Woodfail, in 
vindication of himself against the charge in the 
city petition, of being “ the public defaulter of 

unaccounted millions,” note......ssccecsccescssssscees *180 
History of the dispute between the Rt. Hon. 
George Onslow, now Lord Onslow, and Mr. 


Horne, afterwards Mr. Tooke, note...........06..6- *186 
Remonstrance of the city of Westminster, note.....*210 
Letter to Lord North, signed Brutus, note.......+...+6. *991 
Conclusion of a Letter from Mr. Wilkes to Mr, 

Horne,” Note s..4 oddest cust seate stone seco te tes Cas manne #Q05 
Letter from Junius to Mr. David Garrick ............*229 
Mr. Wilkes’s reply to Mr. Horne, and compli- 

ments to the genius of Mr. Garrick, note........... *230 
Case of Meares and Shepley against Ansell, note.....*240 

PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE between Junius and 

WES WrLeRSeccteo cca eesetaeedecapenpetessssetss ams *961 
Copy of the resolutions of the Supporters of the 

Bill of - Rights;: siobes i... tits sa Mes dsdsvee ieee oda #277 


Extracts from Mr, Wilkes’s Letter to the Livery 


CONTENTS. vil 

PAGE 
of London, in defence of himself from an attack 

made on him by Mr. Townshend, note.........0.++. *320 
Extract from Messrs. Wilkes and Bull’s address to 
the Livery on employing the military under the 


pretence of assisting the civil power, note........ *322 

JUNIUS’s Dedication to the English Nation.........00000+ ye 

mm Preface, .rcancscsesvarsarcocesecvnary ees deccrooees oa D 

Wondtall a Case notes seiettsucts lads ccrsucrd cecbedtbvcos 14 

LETTER 1. Juntus to the Printer of the P. A.....e.eceeee Sine 7 
u. Sir Wm. Draper’s answer to the foregoing letter of 

Junrus, addressed to the Primter of the P. A. ...... 62 

Short Sketch of Sir William Draper’s character, note... 69 

mm. Junius to Sir William Draper .........coscssoeseseseees 70 

Corsica reduced by the French, note......sssereeeeeeeees 72 

1V.,SinWm. Draper to JUNI. as. cncccrse Te tits isesndsseveees 78 

; INEGGLCS P AOLEs Te. ded oaesh cece shine secce 79 

Hoss e ses HE (GHOSE, HOLE « doe ces coessevseces 80 

Titus to the Printer of the P. A. note......,.ccseeeeeers 83 

v. Junius to Sir Wm. Draper ........... doanbans hast ¥eygs oop 95 

vi, Sir Wim. Draper 10. JUNIUS....cccovccesessensseese seeveenes 98 

vit. Juntus to Sir Wm. Drapet.......c.cscersnecsoeesevvensens 99 

Sir Wm. Draper to the Printer, note.........sseceeeeeees 102 

vu. Junius to the Duke of Grafton..........ccseccsevceeees 106 

Sir Wm. Draper to the Printer of the P. A. note....... 2b. 

Ix JoNtus to the Duke of Grattontss......c.cssecectecesenres 116 

X. ——— Mr. Edward Weston ............scccscoovcceses 121 

Crito  MLLOLEH Ss sates evs ceclec ses 122 

x1. Junius to the Duke of Grafton............sececescesseees 125 
Conclusion of Lord Mansfield’s speech on the reversal 

of Mr. Wilkes’s Outlawry, note .......sseserereeeeeeees 126 
Proceedings of the House of Commons on expelling 

Mr. Wilkes, note........+6> Rec GarcsesC AGA Mes oct vesds pices 132 

xu. Junius to the Duke of Grafton ....,.ssesereereerereees 139 


Short sketch of the Duke’s political life to the date of 
this Letter, note ae rey IEEE or POLE CRE eee 


CONTENTS. 


Vili 
LETTER PAGE 
xu. Statement of American politics at this period, note 147 
xi. Philo Junius to the Printer of the P. A.............153 
XV ——— Kem i — crenesderts LOO 
xv. Junius to the Duke of Grafton....... sovde sees tame +e LBS 
XVI. Printer of the P.A......... a Fee ATS 
Statement of Mr. Walpole’s expulsion from the H. 
Of CF notes! ....s00%% « Seobseeintisitenicetscsene 177—178 
xvu. Philo Junius to the Printer of the P. A. ..... itis 181 
G. A. to the Printer of the P. A. on Wilkes’s ex- 
pulsion, note......+. sbecbeeeededeccdties recodtv ett eanamE 182 
A speech without doors, (Sir Wm. Blackstone’s) on 
the same, Note...+..cecccescccees Sostectenscte etaethee LOX 
xvi Junius to Dr. Wim. Blackstones...:c..cssscevevesseneeses 191 
x1x. Philo Junius to the Printer of the P. A. ..........0006 200 
Publius to Junius, in defence of Dr. B. extracted 
from the St. James’s Chronicle, note.........sse0e« 2b. 
xx. Junius to the Printer of the P. A...........s00. Scooters 
Philo Junius TIOLE sac esse neeme vont 
xxi. SuNRUS $<. ha ereecceveees 0000 DO4 
xxu. Philo Junius —————-——_ evecbevsccstile seston 
xx. Junius to the Duke of Bedford...........csesceeees os 231 


On the unpopular peace of 1763, and anecdote of the 
WUE, NOLES o.ccet esse sores Teachettivcctess Sehenee 231—240 
On the contest for mayor, &c. for Bedford, note.....237 


ADVERTISEMENT. 


Tue present edition contains, besides the 
letters published by authority of Junius himself, 
others written by the same author, under various sig- 
natures, which appeared in the Public Advertiser from 
April, 1767, to May, 1772, together with his Private 
Letters, peculiarly curious and interesting, addressed 
to his printer, the late Mr. H.S. Woodfall, and his 
confidential correspondence with Mr. Wilkes. These 
latter papers only reached the proprietor’s hands after 
a considerable part of the work had been printed off, 
and will account for the unavoidable omission of any 
notice of them in the Preliminary Essay. 

It is in perfect consistency with the plan at first 
proposed by the author, but which he was compelled 
in some degree to depart from, as remarked in the 
Preliminary Essay, that the edition now offered con- 
tains, independently of his more finished compositions 
under the signature of Junius and Puito Junius, 
letters under other signatures, bearing nevertheless 
characteristic and unequivocal marks of proceeding 
from the same pen; and which, though written perhaps 
with more haste than the former, exhibit merit enough 
to accompany them; while they possess no small por- 


x ADVERTISEMENT. 


tion of additional value as comments upon points that 
require elucidation. 

The editor, in thus deciding upon materials which 
lie scattered through what the author terms six “ solid 
folios,” will be found seldom to have relied altogether 
upon his own judgment, but to have availed himself of 
a variety of minute clues resulting from incidental re- 
ferences, or open acknowledgments in the Private 
Letters; direct charges of contemporary labourers in 
the same political vineyard, which were not disavowed 
by Junius himself, as was his custom whenever “ other 
persons’ sins,” to adopt his own language, were at- 
tributed to him; or from numerous other casual hints 
both in the acknowledged and more palpable Miscel- 
laneous Letters, of which the reader, it is presumed, 
will meet with instances enough to satisfy himself as 
he proceeds. 

To the author’s explanatory notes, the present 
editor has added such others through the entire pro- 
gress of the work, as the intervening lapse of time has 
seemed to render necessary, and though some of them 
are longer than he could have wished, yet from the 
circumstance of their having been written in answer to 
letters from Junius, he has thought it more desirable 
that they should appear in the form in which they are 
now offered, than be pressed into the text of the work, 
by which means its present size must have been very 
considerably extended; and the plan, as devised by 
the author, have been in some instances departed from, 
Many of these notes, moreover, selected from the 
Public Advertiser, will be found in themselves ex- 
tremely curious and valuable, while at the same time 
they are no where else to be met with. The text has 
been carefully collated with the journal in which the 


ADVERTISEMENT. Xi 


letters originally appeared, and very numerous errors 
which have crept into all the editions, except the ge- 
nuine one published by Mr. H. S. Woodfall himself, 
and which have been considerably multiplied in the 
later impressions, have been carefully corrected or ex- 
punged. 

The various fac-similes of the hand-writing of Ju- 
NiIvus, which are executed with peculiar fidelity, have 
been selected from those parts of his manuscripts 
which present the greatest diversity of penmanship, 
though the differences, except in that numbered eight, 
are so trifling, that a hard or a soft, a good or a bad 
pen, is altogether sufficient to account for them. The 
papers which have been copied for specimens of the 
writing of Junius, will be found in their due order, 
among the Private Letters. The other fac-similes, as 
well as the seals, have been delineated with equal ac- 
curacy. 

The proprietor feels it a duty incumbent upon him, 
before he closes this ADVERTISEMENT, to make his 
warmest acknowledgments to several distinguished 
characters who have inspected the papers in his pos- 
session, and who have kindly afforded him much valu- 
able assistance. He begs more especially to offer his 
sincere thanks to the eminent person who obligingly 
furnished the specimen of Mr. Burke’s hand-writing, 
which will be found among the other fac-similes.. 

To the gentleman to whom he stands so much in- 
debted for the very valuable addition of the private 
correspondence between Junius and Mr. Wixxgs, 
and which probably renders the whole of the political 
writings of the former complete ; as also to another 
gentleman who procured for him the note from Mr, W. 
G. Hamilton, and who on various occasions has taken 


xii ADVERTISEMENT. 


great pains and trouble in pointing out sources of use- 
ful information, he begs most particularly to return his 
unfeigned gratitude. 

To his more immediate personal friends for the 
warm interest they have evinced in the success of his 
undertaking, he feels far beyond what he is able to 
express. And he now submits these volumes to the 
judgment of the political and literary world, with de- 
ference and respect, in the hope that his earnest en- 
deavours to present them for the first time with a com- 
plete and perfect edition of the Letters, and, as far as 
may be, the Political Works, of Junius, will not be 
wholly. unsuccessful, and that he shall experience the 
further satisfaction of finding it acknowledged, that — 
the task has been at least impartially executed, 


PATERNOSTER-ROW, 
July 15, 1812, 


ees eel) 2 "> as | dati 
Seri Aaartedeec bes of lhe -— es 
Y9-U0B? he 
a 3. te Ne. 
rer d 4 fir Oh le Cadl Ars You prwr Led mwas dbo 


f d 
f VW RACE fer . 
f 


from fh fateh; rf 2 (oe oe You a 4 

epee fal... Lon 
ie K al A Ke Dd, afe | Ai Vane woe fo 
hectitin~ ft; 
Ihe. reedit rhe Le. fra heen a 

sn theck- feat ee oo I~ Lhe, % 
hh OM or Kt) bro Bd ) Lf 


( 


. / 
Me ban He [ ie 
fA 7. of HQLRNW ee ae Lg He : Leas 
dé 


ow aces ' A Aes 5 ‘af le the i! 


j y a 
bes. Y, } C7 roe Se Lh 
) 
YM_tf! “ni sii oad. 
ee 
l= 
ee 


| — 
The } nor rf. Ye tite ‘ 


f ’ 
ry Kl ay fon wb. y 


ir ec purine ay cindl my 
(TR ORL. Ga HEN a , Yh au 
Pere abet ne, rs aes s) 


oh che. 


Libtete You. tenets te} - Whe have f 


Leadon Se—tethoct od thts, bal Wink 


Jig Vay be Mg afer red lo-e_d wan: 


eek — eae Fe 0 thet Parrehian 


face fed Uz Ae Glgaat or ff bon 


any ff AN ne Yrod v if Dae 
Meastddeter, 
bib who apoadive UYayrtim 

Bard CANAL ME tenes day WM 
in clad. me ge — fr He 


Yr Alt vey i tit pe hy, 


PlawiVel} 


ee of fuerte Len fis fore ee: Vihtevs li A’ Pai ovffil). 


ibe e 

pe rely theca hoz te. 
Ldaw jay o loft hey jefely te 
bef he lamarflan; bet 
WS oes Probe. You heed tél 
Ce, NS 


eid 
Ss er or a 
N? 2. 


_— 


Se 


vey 


\ 
) f) fey i) 
‘ fi wt} } £ ; h re J is Mory ve ) L 4 iy MA 


ff nid bh bMeg) 
Poo 


ly l vd web, hecef ary " { tho til iheatd Lh Cue 


gst Y ue tise Lome f On tn __ 


ie tindl vty vt wbicady aie ged | 


4 for — a4 ei Ah IW EL rf A Mow Nb dy eae 


ag hy WE Hur Rend 
| ee 


f tea) ecbcoratteny ot of Yoollome 
Me sus 


iM nb tis 
HE 


te Uy “Dp 


Vie 
fbn 


ee aE 
Moos 

Lo ak foe, 

ifge Tne 

Bo FAS 


ME Wilkes’s. 
Spa ee Murvnw a anally » 4 ite PUM 
phe Sis OLS hit a L anlee vat 


Om ae i L tht 20, tly 
goon Lidlheul, 19.8 Gallet “ eo YE 
the My of he Ve 
7 D perme Mi 
a A ayer ” Piped tha big 
rel 


tertigfi” HM, 


(2 [acini 
VE df tins nnd 


whee COFE AAT Le i fetue bet 


Me Horne Tooke’s. 


zabisfcad 1S 


woo gan ~~ of 


NEI a she S. 


ee: apie OE 


AUMIMS’S » 


jy W Prsabce dred iM 


hk 


Filo Lechernar 


es the. Caltor of he Niters 
io ls rede ple LedD and per 
; ri Le oo gm Mate ge 
PSE OU: 
re, Pe Ep ee lee pot Pie 1 
Wy habever i happens, oto 


PlateW. Voi. 


rasteite G 


Behr CAPEPE_ bres aa pores 2 As, 


ane Dee ep een 7 ALL hero well. 


by 
fll ee Aare? 


& Jertian? ta flor tts 
F2L of a Ez LDP” ipl aT . Leone 


ohich, fee erred fo you, Ve 
whith Yon re, AA, ie ee Mt ee, 

Js ot Fz 77 Pe ee ae be ve geo? 
ae a no? hive AR coe Ge eg 
f Sf pee > ae ae, et CALE 


7) 
pn rte Gal SOF eed as Ate 


7 Cis ruled. Couen HO ep 


ee Ago 


jwibel 


rf 
~~ s* 


Die Sit ot SS he ba! ogee 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Ir was not from personal vanity, but 
a fair estimate of his own merit, and the impor- 
tance of the subject on which he wrote, that the 
author of the ensuing letters predicted their im- 
mortality. The matter and the manner, the times 
and the talents they disclose, the popularity which 
attended them at their outset, the impression 
they produced on the public mind, and the tri- 
umph of the doctrines they inculcate, all equally, 
concur in stamping for them a passport to the 
most distant posterity. 

In their range these letters comprise a period 
of about five years; from the middle of 1767 to 
the middle of 1772: and never has the history 
of this country, from its origin to the present 
hour, exhibited a period of equal extent that 
more peremptorily demanded the severe, deci- 
sive, and overpowering pen of such a writer as 
Junius. The storms and tempests that, within 
the last twenty years, have shaken the political 
world to its centre, have been wider and more 
tremendous in their operation; but they have, for 

VOL. I. A 


*2 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


the most part, discharged their fury at a distance. 
The constitutions of other countries have been 
swept away by the whirlwind; but that of En- 
gland still towers, like the pyramids of Egypt, 
a wonderful and immortal fabric, overshadowing 
the desart that surrounds it, and defying the 
violence of its hurricanes. Inthe period before us, 
however, this stupendous and beautiful fabric it- 
self was attacked, and trembled to its foundation: 
a series of unsuccessful ministries too often pro- 
fligate and corrupt, and not unfrequently cun- 
ning, rather than capable; a succession of weak 
and obsequious parliaments, and an arbitrary, 
though able chief justice, addicted to the impoli- 
tic measures of the cabinet, fatally concurred to 
confound the relative powers of the state, and 
equally to unhinge the happiness of the crown 
and ofthe people; to frustrate all the proud and 
boasted triumphs of a glorious war, concluded 
but a few years before by an inglorious peace’; to 
excite universal contempt abroad, and universal 
discord at home. -Hence France, humiliated as 
she was by her losses and defeats, did not hesi- 
tate to invade Corsica in open defiance of the” 
remonstrances of the British minister; and sue- 
ceeded in obtaining possession of it, whilst Spain 
dishonourably nh bag to make good the ransom i 


t In 1763, through the hegotiation of the Duke of BelBonde'4 
2 1.26% 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. #3 


she had agreed to, for the restoration of the ca- 
pital of the Philippine Isles, which had been 
saved from pillage upon this express stipulation. 
They saw the weakness and distraction of the 
English Cabinet, and had no reason to dread the 
chastisement of a new war. 

The discontents in the American colonies, 
which a little address might at first have stifled 
for ever, were blown into a flame of open rebel- 
lion, by the impolitic violence of the very mi- 
nister who was appointed, by the creation of a 
new Office at-this very time and for this express 
purpose, to examine into the causes of dissatis- 
faction, and to redress the grievances complain- 
ed of : while, at home, the whole ways and means 
of the ministry, instead of being directed against 
the insolence of the common enemy, were ex- 
hausted against anindividual, who, perhaps, would 
never have been so greatly distinguished, had 
not the ill-judged and contumacious opposition 
of the cabinet, and their flagrant violation of 
the most sacred and important principles of the 
constitution, in order to punish him, raised him 
to a height of popularity seldom attained even 
by the most successful candidates for public ap- 
plause ;-and embroiled themselves on his ac- 
count in a dispute with the nation at large, al- 
most amounting to a civil war, and which, at 

A 2 


*4 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


length, only terminated in their own utter con- 
fusion. and defeat’. 

It was at this period, and under these circum- 
stances, that the ensuing letters successively 
inade their appearance in the Public Advertiser, 
the most current newspaper of the day*. The 
classical. chastity of their language, the exqui- 
site force and perspicuity of their argument, 
the keen severity of their reproach, the. exten- 
sive information they evinced, their fearless and 
decisive tone, and, above all, their stern and 
steady attachment to the purest principles of 
the constitution, acquired for them, with an al- 
most. electric speed, a popularity which na series 
of letters have since possessed, nor perhaps ever 
will; and what is of far greater consequence, 
diffused among the body of the people a clearer. 
knowledge of their constitutional rights than 
they had ever before attained, and animated 
them with a more determined spirit to maintain 
them inviolate?. Enveloped in the cloud of a 


* In the language of Lord Chatham, delivered.on May 1, 
1771, im the House of Lords, “ they rendered the very name 
of parliament ridiculous, by carrying on a constant war against 
Mr. Wilkes,” 

* They were generally copied from the Public Adzerines 
into all the daily and evening papers. 

* That the same general impression was ola by the 

9% 4 appearance 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *5 


fictitious name, the writer of these philippics, 
unseen himself, beheld with secret satisfaction, 
the vast influence of his labours, and enjoyed, 
though, as we shall afterwards observe, not: al- 
ways without apprehension, the universal hunt 
that was made to detect him in his disguise. He 


appearance of these letters ¢z Parliament, which is so well 
known to have been produced out of it, is evident from almost 
all the speeches of the day, if the editor had time to refer to 
them. But the two following extracts from a speech of. Mr. 
Burke and of Lord North will, he presumes, be sufficient for 


the purpose. 
The first ensuing is part of a a delivered by the tobi 


gentleman. 

“ Where then shall we look for the origin of this relaxation 
of the laws and all government? How comes this Junius to 
have breke through the cobwebs of the law, and to range un- 
controuled, unpunished, through the land? The myrmidons 
of the court have been ‘Jong, and/are still, pursaing him in 
vain. They will not spend their time upon me, or you, or 
you. No: they disdain sueh:vermin, when the mighty boar 
of the forest, that has broke through all their t ils, is before 
them. But what will all their efforts avail? No sooner has he 
wounded one than he lays down another dead at his feet. For 
my part, when I saw his attack upon the King, I own my 
blood ran cold. I thought he had ventured too far, and there 
was an end of his triamphs, not that he bad not asserted many 


Yes, Sir, there are in that composition many bold 


truths. 
It was the ran- 


truths, by which a wise prince might profit. 
cour and venom, with which I was struck. In these respects 
the North Briton is as much inferior to him, as ia strength, 
wit, and judgment. But while I expected in this daring fight 
his final ruin and fall, behold him rising still higher, and eam- 


ing 


#6 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


beheld the people extolling him, the court exe- 
crating him, and ministers and more than minis- 


ters trembling beneath the lash of his inyisible 
hand, . 


It is by no means, however, the intention of 
the editor of the present volumes to vindicate 


ing down souse upon both Houses of Parliament. Yes, he 
did make you his quarry, and ‘you still bleed from the wounds 
of his talons. You crouched, and still crouch, beneath his 
rage. Nor has he dreaded the terrors of your brow, Sir; he 
has attacked even, you—he has—and I believe you have no rea- 
son to triumph in the encounter. In short, after carrying away 
our Royal Eagle in his pounces, and dashing him against a 
rock, he has laid you prostrate. King, Lords, and Com- 
mons are but the sport of his fury. Were he a member of 
this house, what might not be expected from his knowledge, 
his firmness, and integrity? He would be easily known by 
his contempt of all danger, by his penetration, by his vigour. 
Nothing would escape his vigilance and activity. Bad minis- 
ters could conceal nothing from his sagacity ; nor could pro- 
mises nor threats induce him to conceal any thing from the 
public.” 

The following is part of a speech delivered by Lord North. 

« When factious and discontented men have brought things 
to this pass, why’ should we be surprised at the difficulty of 
bringing libellers to justice ?_ Why should we wonder that the 
great boar of the wood, this mighty Junius has broke through 
the toils and foiled the hunters? Though there may be at present 
no spear that willreach him, yet he may be some time or other 
caught. At any rate he will be exhausted with fruitless ef- 
forts ; those tusks which he has been whetting to wound and 
gnaw the constitution will be worn out. Truth will at last 
prevail. The public will see and feel that he has either ad- 


vanced 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. ay 


the whole of the method pursued by Juntus to- 
wards the accomplishment of the patriotic ob- 
jects on which his heart appears to have been 
most ardently engaged. Much of his individual 
sarcasm might perhaps have been spared with 
advantage—and especially the whole of his per- 
sonal assaults upon the character and motives of 
the king. Aware as he is of the arguments in 
favour of occasionally attacking the character of 
the chief magistrate, as urged by Junius him- 
selfin his Preface post p. 41 and 42 in Vol. II. p. 
315, he still thinks that no possible circumstances 
could justify so gross a disrespect and indecency; 
that no principle of the constitution supports it, 


vanced false facts, or reasoned falsely from true principles ; 
and that he has owed his escape to the spirit of the times, not 
to the justice of his cause. The North Briton, the most fla- 
gitious libel of its day, would have been equally secure, had 
it been as powerfully supported. But the press had not then 
overflowed the land with its black gall, and poisoned the minds 
of the people. Political writers had some shame left; they 
had some reverence for the Crown, some respect for the name 
of Majesty. Nor were there any members of Parliament 
hardy enough to harangue in defence of libels. Lawyers could 
hardly be brought to plead for them. But the scene is now 
entirely changed. Without doors, within doors, the same abu- 
sive strains prevail. Libels find patrons in both houses of Par- 
liament as well as in Westminster Hall. Nay, they pronounce 
libels.on the very judges. They pervert the privilege of this 
house to the purposes of faction, They catch and swallow the 
breath of the inconstant multitude, because, I suppose, they 
take their voice, which is now that of libels, to be the voice of 
God,” 


#8 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


and that every advantage it was calculated 
to’ produce, might have been obtained in an 
equal degree and to an equal extent, by ani- 
madverting upon the conduct of the king’s 
ministers, instead of censuring that of the king 
in person. In the volumes before us the editor 
is ready to acknowledge that these kinds of para- 
graphs seem at times not altogether free from, 
whatought never to enter the pages of a writer on 
national subjects—individual spleen and enmity. 

But well may we forgive such trivial aberrations of 
the heart, in the midst of the momentous matter 
these volumes are well known to contain, the 
important principles they inculcate ; and espe- 
cially under the recollection that but for the let- 
ters of Junius, the Commons of England might 
still have been without a knowledge of the trans- 
actions of the House of Commons, consisting 
of their parliamentary representatives—liave been 
exposed to the absurd and obnoxious harass- 
ment of parliamentary arrests, upon a viola- 
tion of privileges’ undefined and incapable of 
being appealed against—defrauded of their es- 
tates upon an arbitraty and interested claim of 
the crown—and deprived of the constitutional 
tight of a jury to consider the question of law 
as well-as that of fact. ‘To the steady patriotism 
of the late Mr. Fox is the nation solely indebted 
for'a direct legislative decision upon this last 
important point ;—but the ground was previ- 


PRELIMINARY “ESSAY. «9 


ously cleared by the letters before us ;. it is 
not oftén that a judge has dared openly to cons 
trovert this right since the clear -and unanswetr- 
able argument of Junrus upon this subject, in 
opposition to the arbitrary and illegal doctrine 
of Lord Mansfield, as urged in the case of the 
King against Woodfall’:—an argument which 
seems to have silenced every objection, -to have 
convinced every party, and without which per- 
haps even the zeal and talents of Mr. Fox him- 
self might have been exercised in. vain. 

’ But, after all, who or what was Junius?’ this 
shadow of a name, who thus shot his’ unerring 
arrows from an impenetrable concealment, and 
punished without being perceived? The ques- 
tion is natural; and it has been repeated almost 
without intermission, from the appearance of his 
first letter. Itis not unnatural, moreover, from 
the pertinacity with which he has at all times 
eluded discovery, that the vanity of many poli- 
tical writers of inferior talents should have in- 
duced them to Jay an indirect claim: to his Let- 
ters, and especially after the danger, of respon- 
sibility had considerably ceased, Yet while the 
Editor of the present impression does not under. 
take to cormunicate the real name of Junius, 
he pledges himself to prove, from incontroyert- 


- ? See this case more particularly detailer in, note to Preface’ 
p. 14 of this Vol. and note to Vol. LU. p. 62. 


*10 PRELIMINARY ESSAY, 


ible evidence, afforded by the’ private letters of 
Junius himself during the period in question, 
in connexion with other documents, that not 
one of these pretenders has ever had the small- 
est right to the distinction which some of them 
have ardently coveted. 

These private and confidential letters, ad- 
dressed to the late Mr. Woodfall, are now for 
the first time made public by his son, who isin 
possession of the author’s autographs’; and from 


* There must have been some misunderstanding either of the 
extent of the question, or the nature of the answer in that part of 
aconversation which Mr. Campbell, in his Life of Hugh Boyd, 
states to have occurred between Mr. H. S. Woodfall, (editor and 
one of the proprietors of the Public Advertiser,) and himself, in 
relation to the preservation of these autographs. “I proceeded,’ : 
says Mr. Campbell, “ to ask him if he had preserved any of the 
manuscripts of Junius ? He said ie had not.” p. 164. The vera- 
city of Mr. H. S. Woodfall is well known to have been unim- 
peachable ; and it is by no means the intention of the editor to 
suspect that of Mr, Campbell. It is probable that Mr. Wood- 
fall understood the question to be whether he had regularly 
preserved the manuscripts of Junrus, or had preserved any of 
the manuscripts of Junius which had publicly appeared under 
that signature? No man, not even Mr. Campbell himself 
could have suspected Mr. Woodfall to have been guilty of a 
wilful falsehood ; nor can any advantage be assigned or even 
conceived that could possibly have resulted from such a false- 
hood, had it taken place. at 

It is equally extraordinary that Mr. Campbell, in this same 
conversation, should represent Mr. Woodfall as saying that 


’ 


“as to the story about Hamilton quoting Junius to the late 
Duke of Richmond, he knew it to be a misconception.” In 


regard 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *1] 


the various facts and anecdotes they disclose, 
not only in relation to this extraordinary cha- 
racter, but to other characters as well, they can- 
not fail of being highly interesting to the poli- 
tical world. To have published these letters at 
an earlier period would have been a gross breach 
of trust and decorum: the term of trust, how- 
ever, seems at length to have expired; most of 
the parties have paid the debt of nature, and 
should any be yet living, the length of time 
which has since elapsed has so completely 
blunted the asperity of the strictures they 


regard to the story itself, Woodfall knew it to be founded in 
fact from Hamilton’s own relation—and has repeatedly men- 
tioned it as such; but he may have meant that the story as 
told by Mr. Campbell, was a misconception. 

In effect the late Duke of Richmond himself distinctly in- 
formed the son of the late Mr. Woodfall, that such a com- 
munication with Hamilton had taken place, while his Grace was 
riding with Sir John Peachey, afterwards Lord Selsea, in the park 
at Goodwood, though he could not at that distance of time 
recollect the particular letter to which it referred. The clue 
to the mystery is that Mr. Hamilton was acquainted with the 
late Mr. H. S. Woodfall, and used occasionally to call at his 
office; whence it is highly probable that Mr. Woodfall had 
shewn him or detailed to him a Letter from Junius then just 
received, and intended for publication on a certain day. Ha- 
milton alluded to the general purport of this letter, on the day 
on which it was to have been published as though he had just 
read it ; when to the astonishment of his Grace and Sir John 
Peachey, to whom he thus mentioned it, no such letter appeared, 
though it did appear the next day or the day after. 


*]2 PRELEMINARY ESSAY. 


contain, that they could scarcely object t6 so 
remote a publication of them. Junius, in the 
career of his activity, was the man of the peo- 
ple ; and when the former can receive’no injuty 
from the disclosure, the latter have certainly a 
‘claim to every information that can be commu- 
“nicated concerning him. 

It was on the 28th of April, in the year 
-1767, that the late Mr. H. S. Woodfall, received 
‘amidst other letters from a great number of cor- 
respondents for the use of the Public Advertiser 
‘of which he was a proprietor, the first public ad-_ 
dress of this celebrated writer. He had not. then 
‘assumed the name, or rather written under the 
signature of Junius; nor did he always indeed 
assume a signature of any kind. When he did 
‘so, however, his signatures were diversified, 
and the chief of them were. Mnemon and At- 
ticus, Lucius, Junius, and Brutus... Under the 
first he sarcastically opposed the ministry upon 
the subject of the Nullam Tempus bill, which in- 
volved the celebrated dispute concerning. the 
transfer on the part of the crown of the Duke of 
Portland’s estate of the forest. of Inglewood, and 
the manor and castle of Piltabessies Sir James 
Lowther, son-intaw of Lord Bute, upon the 
plea that these lands, which formerly belonged 
to the crown, had not been duly specified in. 
king William’s grant of them to the Portland 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. * IS 


faniily; and:that hence, although they had been 
in the Portland family for nearly seventy years, 
they of right belonged to the crown still. The 
letters signed Atticus and Brutus. relate chiefly 
to the growing disputes with the American 
colonies: and those subscribed Lucius exclu- 
sively to the outrageous dismission of Sir Jeffery 
Amherst from his post of governor of Virginia. 

The name of Mnemon seems to have been 
neatly taken up at hazard. ‘That of Atticus 
was unquestionably assumed from the author’s 
own opinion of the purity of his style, an opinion 
in which the public universally concurred : and: 
the three remaining signatures of Lucius, Junius, 
and Brutus were obviously deduced from a vene- 
ration for the memory of the celebrated Roman 
patriot, who united these three names in his own. 
_ There were also a variety of other names oc- 
casionally assumed by this fer tile political writer, 
to answer particular purposes, or more com- 
pletely to conceal himself, and carry forward. 
his extensive design. ‘That of Philo-Junius, he 
has avowed to the public, in the authorized: 
édition of the Letters of Junius: but besides 
this they have yet to recognize him under the 
mask of Poplicola, Domitian, Vindex, and a 
variety of others,.as the subjoined pages will 
sufficiently testify. a 

The most sinsibir of our author’s letters an- 
terior to those published with the signature of 


#14 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. ° 


Junius in 1769, were those subscribed Atticus 
and Lucius; to the former of which the few let- 
ters signed Brutus seem to have been little more 
than auxiliary, and are consequently not polished 
with an equal degree of attention. These letters, 
in point of time, preceded those with the signa- 
ture of Juntus by a few weeks: they are cer- 
tainly: written with admirable spirit and perspi- 
cuity, and are entitled to all the popularity they 
acquired :—yet they are not perhaps possest of 
more merit than our author’s letters signed 
Mnemon. They nevertheless deserve a more 
minute attention from their superior celebrity. 
The proofs of their having been composed by 
the writer denominated Juntus are incontestible : 
the manner, the phraseology, the sarcastic, ex- 
probratory style, independently of any other 
evidence, sufficiently identify them*. These 


* That those under the signature of Lucius were early 
and generally traced to the pen of Junius even by writers of 
the opposite party, may be fairly inferred from the following 
passage in a letter in the Public Advertiser of the date of April 
27th, 1769, signed “A long forgotten correspondent” in- 
tended as an antidote to the poison that Junius was supposed: 
to be propagating. 

“« In the warm and energetic, though keen sal sarcastic ayle 
of Junius, we may, I think, easily descry the Luctus, long 
dreaded by his opponents ; and from the warmth of his senti- 
ments, if they do indeed correspond with his expressions, we 
may expect a future Brutus, a patriotic character much to be 
dreaded by all those whe, content with the portion of power, 

: now 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY: #15 


therefore are now added, together with such 
others whose genuineness is equally indisputable, 


now in the hands of government, (if government had the 
spirit to exert it) wish not to see the people, by their factious 
and unmeaning rage, provoke their long-suffering Sovereign 
to throw real chains over them, and correct their madness 
with stripes and hunger, the proper cure for phrenzy, the 
only specific for such headstrong and vicious insanity.” 

The celebrity acquired by these earlier letters of Junius, 
under the signature of Lucius, induced several other writers of 
the same period to adopt the same signature ; and hence Lu- 
cius, and Lucius Verus are common signatures in the Public 
Advertiser during the years 1769, 1770. But there is no 
more reason to suppose that Junius himself ever had recourse 
to this signature than he had to that of Atticus, or Brutus, 
after the assumption of this last appellative. He would not 
degrade the name of Lucius by an unfinished production, and 
to all that he regarded as finished he continued to subscribe 
Junius as a still more popular signature. 

An attempt, also, for the same reason, was once made by 
another correspondent, to publish under the signature of Junius ; 
but the letter was refused to be inserted with that name by the 
printer, who signified his refusal in one of his notices to his 
correspondents. ‘Yet it is curious to observe, that one or two 
spurious letters under the signature of Philo-Junius, found ° 
their way, as genuine epistles, into the P. A. (probably from 
casual absence of the editor) if we may determine from the 
following statement written immediately after Junius’s public 
avowal: that the letters subscribed Philo-Junius were his own 
productions. 

TO. THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 

S1R, 

A paragraph having appeared in your paper of 
Saturday last, intimating that “you have the author’s consent 


to 


*16 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


to the acknowledged letters of Junius, to render 
his productions complete’. 


to declare that the letters published in that paper under the 
signature of Philo-Janius are written by Junius,” I take the 
liberty of acquainting you and the public, that during the 
course of the. years 1768 and 1769 several letters under that, 
signature were written and inserted in the Public Advertiser,. 
not by Junzus, but by 

Your humble servant, 

OSC SS eae ; G. F. 

«<The -printer presumes not to doubt the assertion of his 
correspondent, though it is not possible for him to charge his 
memory with the circumstances at this distance of time.]}’’ 
The printer might, however, with great safety have denied this 
assertion of G. F. which on the face of it bears evident marks 
of inaccuracy, as the first letter of Junius published in the 
genuine edition bears date January 21, 1769, and the only one 
under that signature printed in 1768 is Miscellaneous Letter, 
No. i. which did not receive support from an auxiliary signa- 
ture of any kind. The fact is that the only Philo-Junius not 
genuine is the one here more particularly alluded to. Philo- 
Junius, No. xxx1. was originally published in the Public Ad- 
vertiser under the signature of Moderatus. 

* When the late Mr. Woodfall, so early as the summer of 
1769, had an intention of re-publishing such of the Letters of 
Junius as had already appeared in the Public Advertiser, the. 
author, in Private Letter, No. 7, observed to the printer, “ Do. 
with my letters exactly what you please. I should think that: 
to make a better figure than Newberry, some others of my, 
letters may be added, and:so throw out an hint, that you have. 
reason to suspect they are by the same auther. If you adopt 
this plan, I shall point out those which I would recommend ; 
for, you know, I do not, nor indeed have d time to give equal 
‘care to them all.” 


a. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. #17 


It is no objection to their being genuine that 
they were omitted by Junius in his own edition 
_ published by Mr. Woodfall :—there is a material 
difference between printing a complete edition 
of the letters of Junius, and a complete edition 
of the letters of the writer of this name. The 
first was the main object of Junius himself, and 
it was not necessary therefore, that he should have 
extended it to letters composed by him under any 
other signature, excepting indeed those of Philo- 
Junius, which it was expedient for him to avow ; 
the second is the direct design of the edition 
before us ;—and it would be inconsistent with it 
to suppress any of his ietters, under what signa- 
ture soever they may have appeared, that pos- 
sess sufficient interest to excite the attention of 
the public. 

The first of the letters (signed Atticus) was 
written in the beginning of August, 1768. It 
takes a general, and by no means an uncandid, 
survey of the state of the nation at that period, 
and particularly in regard to its funded property, 
the alarming and dangerous depression of which, 
from the still hostile appearance of France, the 
prospect of a rupture with the American colo- 
nies, the wretchedness of the public finances, 
and the imbecility of the existing administration, 
struck the writer so forcibly as to induce him, as 

VOL. I. B 


243 PRELIMINARY ESSAY, 


he tells us, to transfer his property from the 
funds to what he conceived the more solid se- 
curity of landed estate. The conclusion of this 
letter exhibits so much of the essential style and 
manner of Junius, that it has every claim to be 
copied in this place as affording an internal proof 
of identity of pen. 

‘* We are arrived at that point when new 
taxes either produce nothing, or defeat the 
old ones, and when new duties only operate as 
a prohibition: yet these are the times when 
every ignorant boy thinks himself fit to be a 
minister. Instead of attendance to objects of 
national importance, our worthy governors are 
contented to divide their time between private 
pleasures and ministerial intrigues. Their acti- 
vity is Just equal to the persecution of a prisoner 
in the King’s Bench, and to the honourable 
struggle of providing for their dependents. If 
there be a good man in the king’s service they 
dismiss him .of course ; and when bad news ar- 
rives, instead of uniting to consider of a remedy, 
their time is spent in accusing and reyiling one 
another. Thus the debate concludes in some 
half misbegotten measure, which is left to exe- 
cute itself. Away they go: one retires to his 
country house ; another is engaged at an horse 
race ; @ third has an appointment with @ prosti« 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *19 


tute ;—and as to their country, they leave her, like 
a cast off mistress, to perish under the diseases 
they have given her.” 

It was just at this period that the very ex- 
traordinary step occurred of the dismissal of Sir 
Jeffery Amherst from his government of Vir- 
ginia, for the sole purpose, as it should seem, of 
creating a post for the Earl of Hillsborough’s inti- 
mate friend Lord Botetourt, who had completely 
ruined himself by gambling and extravagance. 
This post had been expressly given to Sir Jeffery 
for life, as a reward for his past services in Ame- 
rica, and it was punctiliously stipulated that a 
personal residence would be dispensed with. It 
was an atrocity well worthy of public attack and 
condemnation; and the keen vigilance of Ju- 
nius, which seems first to have traced it out, 
hastened to expose it to the public in all its in- 
decency and outrage, and with the warmth 
of a personal friendship for the veteran hero. 
The subject being of a different description 
from that he had engaged in under the signa- 
ture of Atticus, he assumed a new name, and 
for the first time sallied forth under that of 
Lucius, subscribed to a letter addressed to the 
Earl of Hillsborough, minister for the American 
department, and published in the Public Ad- 
vertiser Aug. 10th, 1768. A vindication, or 
rather an apology, was entered into, by three 

B 2 


*20 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


or four correspondents. under different signa- 
tures, but almost every one of whom was regard- 
ed by Junius, and indeed by the public at large, 
as the Earl of Hillsborough himself, or some in- 
dividual writer under his immediate controul, as- 
suming a mere diversity of mask the better: to 
accomplish the purpose of a defence. Lucius 
Junius followed up the contest without sparing, 
—the minister became ashamed of his conduct, 
and Sir Jeffery, within a few, weeks after his dis- 
missal and the resignation. of two-regiments 
which he commanded, was restored to the com- 
mand of one of them, and appointed to that of 
another; andin May, 1776, was created a peer 
of the realm, which the Duke of Grafton 
had refused him, under the strange and impoli- 
tic assertion that he had not fortune enough 
to maintain. such a dignity with the splendour 
it required. The sarcastic. remark of Lucius. 
upon this observation of his Grace, is entitled 

to attention, as identifying him.with Junzus in 

his peculiar severity of reproach. 

* The Duke of Grafton’s idea of the proper - 
object of a British peerage differs very materially 
from mine. His Grace, in the true spirit of bu- 
siness, looks for nothing but an opulent fortune; 
meaning, I presume, the fortune which can pur= 
chase, as well as maintain a title. We under 
stand his Grace, and know who dictated. that: 

2 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. #21 


article. Hehas declared the terms on which 
Jews, gamesters, pedlers, and contractors, (if 
they have sense enough to take the hint) may 
rise without difficulty into British Peers. There 
was a time indeed, though not within his Grace’s 
memory, when titles were the reward of public 
virtue, and when the crown did not think its 
revenue ill employed in contributing to support 
the honours it had bestowed. It is true his 
Grace’s family derive their wealth and greatness 
from a different origin, from a system which he, 
it seems, is determined to revive. His con- 
fession is frank, and well becomes the candour 
of a young man, at least. I dare say, that if 
either his Grace or your Lordship had had the 
command ofa seven years’ war in America, you 
would have taken care that poverty, however 
honourable, should not have been an objection 
to your advancement; —you would not have stood 
in the predicament of Sir Jeffery Amherst, who 
is refused a title of honour, because he did not 
create a fortune equal to it, at the expense,of 
the public.” 

He is not less severe upon Lord Hillsborough 
in a succeeding letter; and the editor extracts 
the following passage for the same purpose he 
has introduced the preceding. 

«¢ That you are a civil, polite person is true. 
Few men understand the little morals better or 


¥IQ PRELIMINARY ESSAY/ 


observe the great ones less than your Lordship. 
You can bow and smile in an honest man’s face, 
while you pick his ‘pocket. ‘These are the vir- 
tues of a court, in which your education has 
not been neglected. In any other school you 
might have learned that simplicity and integrity 
are worth them all. Sir Jeffery Amherst was 
fighting the battles of his country, while you, 
my Lord, the darling child of prudence and urba- 
nity, were practising the generous arts of a 
courtier, and securing an honourable interest 
in the antichamber of a favourite.” 

Having thus signally triumphed in the affair 
of Sir Jeffery Amherst, our invisible state-satyrist 
now returned to the subject he had commenced 
under the signature of Atticus, and pursued it 
in three additional letters, with the same signa- 
ture, from the beginning of October till the close 
of November, in the same year; offering a few 
general remarks upon collateral topics in two 
or three letters signed Brutus. The character- 
istics of Juntus are here often as conspicuous as 
in any letters he ever wrote: it will be sufficient 
to confine ourselves to two passages, since two 
competent witnesses are as good as a thousand. 
The following is his description of the prime 
minister of the day. 

“* When the Duke of Grafton first entered 
into office, it was the fashion of the times to 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 423 


‘suppose that young men might have wisdom 
without experience. They thought so them- 
selves, and the most important affairs of this 
country were committed to the first trial of their 
abilities. His Grace had honourably fleshed his 
maiden sword in the field of opposition, and 
had gone through all the discipline of the mi- 
nority with credit. He dined at Wildman’s, 
railed at favorites, looked up to Lord Chatham 
with astonishinent, and was the declared advo- 
cate of Mr. Wilkes. It afterwards pleased his 
Grace to enter into administration with his friend 
Lord Rockingham, and in a very little time, it 
pleased his Grace to abandon him. He then 
accepted of the treasury upon terms which Lord 
Temple had disdained. For a short time his 
submission to Lord Chatham was unlimited. He 
could not answer a private letter without Lord 
Chatham’s permission. I presume he was then 
learning his trade, for he soon set up for himself. 
Until he declared himself the minister, his cha- 
racter had been but little understood. I*rom that 
moment a system of conduct, directed by pas- 
sion and caprice, not only reminds us that he is 
a young man, but a young man without solidity 
of judgment. One day he desponds and threatens 
to resign, the next he finds his bloed heated, 
and swears to his friends he is determined to go 
on. In his public measures we have seen no proof 


4 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


either of ability or consistency. ‘The Stamp-act 
had been repealed (no matter how unwisely) 
under the preceding administration. ‘The co- 
lonies had reason to triumph, and were return- 
ing to their good humour. ‘The point was de- 
cided, when this young man thought proper to 
revive it without either plan or necessity; he 
adopts the spirit of Mr. Grenville’s measures, 
and renews the question of taxation in a form 
more odious and less effectual than that of the 
law which had been repealed.” 

The following is his character of the members 
of the cabinet generally. ‘ The school they were 
bred in taught them how to abandon their friends, 
without deserting their principles. There is a 
littleness even in their ambition; for money is 
their first object. Their professed opinions upon 
some great points are so different from those of 
the party, with which they are now united, that 
the council chamber 1s become a scene of open 
hostilities. While the fate of Great Britain is at 
stake, these worthy counsellors dispute without 
decency, advise without sincerity, resolve without 
decision, and leave the measure to be executed 
by the man who voted against it. ‘This, I con- 
ceive, is the last disorder of the state. The con- 
sultation meets but to disagree, opposite medi- 


cines are prescribed, and the last fixed on is 


changed by the hand who gives it.” 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *25 


The attention paid to these philippics, and 
the celebrity they had so considerably acquired, 
stimulated the author to new and additional ex- 
ertions: and having in the beginning of the 
ensuing year completed another with more than 
usual elaboration and polish, which he seems to 
_ have intended as a kind of introductory address 
to the nation at large, he sent it forth under the 
name of Junius, (a name he had hitherto assum- 
ed but once,) to the office of the Public Adver- 
tiser, in which journal it appeared on Saturday, 
January 21, 1769. ‘The popularity expected by 
the author from this performance was more than 
accomplished ; and what in some measure added 
to his fame, was a reply (for the Public Adver- 
tiser was equally open to all parties) from a real 
character of no small celebrity as a scholar, aswell 
asa manof rank, Sir Wm. Draper; principally 
because the attack upon his Majesty’s ministers 
had extended itself to Lord Granby, at that time 
commander in chief, for whom Sir William pro« 
_ fessed the most cordial esteem and friendship. 

Sir Wm. Draper appears, to have been a 
worthy, and, on the whole, an independent man; 
and Lord Granby was perhaps the most honest 
and immaculate of his Majesty’s ministers. Ju- 
nius did not begin the dispute with the former, 
and seems from a regard for his character, to 
have continued it unwillingly: “* My answer,” 


*26 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


says he to him in his last letter’, upon a second 
assault, and altogether without reason, ‘ shall be 
short; for I write'to you with reluctance, and 1 
hope we shall now conclude our correspondence 
for ever!’? At the latter he had only glanced in- 
cidentally, (for upon the whole he approved his 
conduct *,) and seems rather to have dene so 
from the company he consorted with, than from 
any gross misdeeds of his own. Nothing could 
therefore have been more improvident or im- 
politic than this attack of Sir Wm. Draper: if 
volunteered in favour of the ministry, it is im- 
possible for a defence to have been worse plan- 
ned ;—for by confining the vindication to the 
individual that was least accused, it tacitly ad- 
mitted that the charges advanced against all 
the rest were well founded; while, if volunteered 
in favour of Lord Granby alone, it might easily 
have been anticipated by the writer that his vi- 

sionary opponent would be hereby challenged to 
bring forward peccadillos which would other- 
wise never have been heard of, and that he 
would not fail at the same time, to scrutinize 
the character of Sir William himself, and to as- 
cribe this act of precipitate zeal to an interested 


* Letter xxv. Vol. II. p. 5 

* See his opinion of Lord Granby given under the-name of 
Lucius, in Miseellanecus Letters of this writer, Vol. IT. 
p- 107, as also in the note at the close of Junius, Vol. 1. p. 108. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY: 27% 


desire of additional promotion in the army. It 
was too much for Sir William to expect that 
Junius would be hurried into an intemperate dis- 
closure of his real name by a swaggering offer to 
measure swords with him; while the following 
rebuke was but a just retaliation for his chal- 
lenge. 

*¢ Had you been originally and without pro- 
vocation attacked by an anonymous writer, you 
would have some right to demand his name. But 
in this cause you are a volunteer. You engaged 
in it with the unpremeditated gallantry of a 
soldier. You were content to set your name in 
opposition to a man who would probably con- 
tinue in concealment. You understood the terms 
upon which we were to correspond, and gave at 
least a tacit assent to them. After voluntarily 
attacking me under the character of Junius, 
what possible right have you to know me under 
any other? Will you forgive me if I insinuate to 
you, that you foresaw some honour in the ap- 
parent spirit of coming forward in person, and 
that you were not quite indifferent to the display 
of your literary qualifications?”’ 

In reality Junius, though a severe satirist, 
was not in his general temper a malevolent writer, 
nor an ungenerous man. No one has ever 
been more ready to admit the brilliant talents of 
Sir William Blackstone than himself, or to ap- 


*IS PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


ply to his Commentaries for legal information, 
while reprobating his conduct in the unconsti- 
tutional expulsion of Mr. Wilkes from the House 
of Commons. “If I were personally your enemy,” 
says he in his letter to him upon this subject, 
«© I should dwell with a malignant pleasure 
upon those great and useful qualifications which 
you. certainly possess, and by which you once 
acquired, though they could not preserve to 
you the respect and esteem of your country. 
I should enumerate the honours you have lost, 
and the virtues you have disgraced: but having 
no private resentments to gratify, I think it suf- 
ficient to have given my opinion of your public 
conduct, leaving the punishment it deserves to 
your closet and to yourself.” 

The rescue of General Gansel, by means of 
a party of guards, from the hands of the Sheriff’s 
officers after they had arrested him for debt, was 
an outrage upon the law which well demanded 
castigation ; and the attempt to quash this trans- 
action on the part of the minister, instead of 
delivering the culprits over to the punishment 
they had merited, was an outrage of at least 
equal atrocity, and demanded equal reprobation. 
The severity with which the minister was re- 
peatedly attacked by Junius on this subject is 
still well known to many: but the reason is not 
yet known to any one perhaps, why he suddenly 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY.: *99 


dropped this subject, after having’ positively de- 
clared in-his letter of November 15, 1769. Vol. 
Il. p. 51, “if the gentlemen, whose conduct is 
in question, are not brought to a trial, the Duke 
of Grafton shall hear from me again.”’ From his 
Private Lettersto Mr. Woodfall, we shall nowlearn 
that he was solely actuated in. his forbearance 
by motives of humanity : “ The only thing,” says 
he, in a note alluding to this transaction, “ that 
hinders my pushing the subject of my last letter, 
is really the fear of ruining that poor devil Gansel, 
and those other blockheads *”’. 

In like manner having been betrayed by the 
first rumours of the day into what he afterwards 
found to have been too atrocious an opinion, and 
expressed himself with too indignant a warmth 
upon the conduct of Mr.. Vaughan: in his well 
known .attempt to purchase of the Duke. of 
Grafton the reversion of a patent place in Jamai-- 
ca, he hastened to make him both publicly 
and privately all the reparation in his power. 
«JT think myself obliged,” says he, in a letter to 
the Duke of Grafton, ‘to do this justice to an 
injured man, because I was deceived by the ap- 
pearances thrown out by your Grace, and have 
frequently spoken of his conduct with indigna- 
tion. If he really be, what I think him, honest, 


* See Private Letters, No. 11. 


*30 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


though mistaken, he will be happy in recovering 
his reputation, though at the expense of his 
understanding '.”” Vaughan himself had so high 
an opinion of our author’s integrity, though a 
total stranger to him, that he entrusted him 
with his private papers upon the subject in ques- 
tion, which Junius in return took care to employ 
to Vaughan’s advantage ”. 

Yrom the extraordinary effect produced by 
his first letter under the signature of Juntus, he 
resolved to adhere to this signature exclusively, 
in all his subsequent letters, in which he took 
more than ordinary pains, and which alone he 
was desirous of being attributed to himself; while 
to other letters composed with less care, and 
merely explanatory of passages in his more fin- 
ished addresses, or introduced for some other 
collateral purpose, he subscribed some random 
name which occurred to him at the moment. 
The letters of Philo-Junius are alone an excep- 
tion to this remark. ‘These he always intended 
to acknowledge; and in truth they are for the 
most part composed with so much of the pecu- 


1 Vol. IL p. 101. 

* Coinpare his private letter toW oodfall, Dec. 12,1769. No. 15. 
with his public letter tothe Duke of Grafton, February 14, 1770, 
after he had examined these papers, and especially the pas- 
sage, “ You laboured then, by every species of false suggestion, 
and even by publiching counterfeit letters, &c.”* Vol. IL. p, 101, 

4 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY, *SI 


liar style, and finished accuracy of the letters 
of Junius, properly so called, that it would have 
required but little discernment to have regarded 
the two correspondents as the same person under 
different characters,—idem et alter—if Junius 
himself had not at length admitted them to be his 
own productions which he expressly did, in an 
authorized note from the printer, inserted in the 
Public Advertiser, October 19, 1771. ‘ The 
auxiliary part of Philo-Junius,” says he in his 
Preface, page 10, ‘‘ was indispensably necessary to 
defend or explain particular passages in Junius, 
in answer to plausible objections ; but the subor- 
dinate character is never guilty of the indeco. 
rum of praising his principal. ‘The fraud was in- 
nocent, and [always intended to explain it.”” Yet 
whatever were the signatures he assumed, or the 
loose paragraphs he occasionally addressed to the 
public, without a signature of any kind, we have 
his own assertion, that from the time of his cor- 
responding, as Junius, with the editor of the Pub- 
lic Advertiser, he never wrote in any other news- 
paper. “I believe,”’ says he, ‘ I need not assure 
you that I have never written in any other paper 
since I began with yours ;” Private Letter, No. 
7. So also in another Private Letter, No. 13. I 
sometimes change my signature ; but could have 
no reason to change the paper; especially for one 
that does not circulate half as much as yours.” 


#32 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


That he was not only a man of highly culti- 
vated general talents and education, but had 
critically and successfully studied the language, 
the law, the constitution, and history of his 
native country is indubitable. Yet this is not 
all; the proofs are just as clear that he was 
also a man of independent fortune, that he 
moved in the immediate circle of the court, and 
was intimately acquainted, from its first concep- 
tion, with almost every public measure, every 
ministerial intrigue, and every domestic inci- 
dent. 

That he was a man of easy, if not of affluent 
circumstances, is unquestionable from the fact 
that he never could be induced in any way or 
shape to receive any acknowledgment from the 
proprietor of the Public Advertiser, for the 
great benefit and popularity he conferred on 
this paper by his writings, and to which he was 
fairly entitled. When the first genuine edition 
of his letters was on the point of publication, 
Mr. Woodfall again urged him either to ac- 
cept half its profits, or to point out some pub- 
lic charity or other institution to which an 
equal sum might be presented. His reply to 
this request is contained in a paragraph of one 
of his Private Letters, No. 59. and confers’ 
credit on both the parties. ‘ What you say 
about the profits is very handsome. I like to 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *33 


deal with such men. As for myself be assured 
that I am far above all pecuniary views, and no 
other person I think has any claim to share with 
you. Make the most of it, therefore; and let 
your views in life be directed to a solid, how- 
ever moderate independence: without it no man 
can be happy nor even honest.’ In this last 
sentence he reasoned from the sphere of life in 
which he was accustomed to move; and, con- 
fining it to this sphere, the transactions of every 
day shew us that he reasoned correctly... It. is 
air additional proof, as well of his affluence, 
as of his generosity, that not long after the 
commencement of his correspondence with 
the printer of the Public Advertiser, he wrote 
to him as follows: | ‘‘ For the matter of assist- 
ance, be assured that, if a question should arise 
upon any writings of my mine, you shall not 
want it;—in point of money be assured you 
shall never sufter’.”” In perfect and honour- 
able consonance with which, when the printer 
was at length involved in a prosecution in con- 
sequence of Junius’s letter to the King, he 
wrote to him as follows: ‘ If your affair should 
come toa trial, and you should be found guilty, 
you will then let me know what expense falls 
particularly on yourself : for I understand you 


* Private Letter, No. 6. dated Aug. 6, 1769. 
YOL. I. c 


Liwdaaeth’ 


CALIFORNIA BAPTIST THE0LOCIGN. 


i 
amit 


nary 


Covina, California 


cMINARY 


*34 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


are engaged with other proprietors. Some way 
or other you shall be reimbursed'.’” 

“* As you have told us,” says Sir W. Draper, in 
his last letter to Junrus, “ of your importance ; 
and that you are a person of rank and fortune, 
and above a common bribe, you may, in all pro- 
bability, be not unknown to his Lordship (Earl 
of Shelburne) who can satisfy you of the truth 
of what I say*.”’ Sir William alludes, in this pas- 
sage, to a short public note of Junius to the 
printer of the Public Advertiser, addressed in 
consequence of some verses which had just ap- 
peared in that paper, entitled ‘“* The tears of 
Sedition on the death of Junius ;’”’ in which he 
observes: ‘It is true I have refused offers 
which a more prudent or a more interested 
man would have accepted. Whether it be sim- 
plicity or virtue in me, I can only affirm that Z 
am in earnest, because I am convinced, as far 
as my understanding is capable of judging, that 
the present ministry is driving this country to 
destruction; and you, I think, Sir, may be 
satisfied that my rank and fortune place me 
above a common bribe?.” Sir William sneers 
at the appeal, and treats it as the mere unfound- 
ed boast of a man of arrogance and invisibility : 


* Private Letter, No. 19. * Vol. II. p. 3. 
* See Miscellaneous Letters, No. tiv. Vol. III. p. 197. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *35 


but the reader now sees sufficiently that it hada 
solid foundation to rest upon. 

That Junius moved in the immediate circle 
of the court, and was intimately and confiden- 
tially connected, either directly or indirectly, 
with all the public offices of government, is, if 
possible, still clearer than that he was a man of 
independent property; for the feature that pe- 
culiarly characterized him, at the time of his 
writing, and that cannot even now be contem- 
plated without surprise, was the facility with which 
he became acquainted with every ministerial ma- 
noeuvre, whether public or private, from almost 
the very instant of its conception. At the first 
moment the partisans of the prime minister were 
extolling his official integrity and virtue, in not 
only resisting the terms offered by Mr. Vaughan 
for the purchase of the reversion of a patent- 
place in Jamaica, but in commencing a prose- 
cution against him for thus attempting to corrupt 
him, Juwnrus, in his letter of Nov. 29, 1769, 
Vol. II. p. 52, exposed this affectation of coyness, 
as he calls it, by proving that the minister was 
not only privy to, but a party concerned in, the 
sale of another patent place, though the former 
had often been disposed of before in a manner 
somewhat if not altogether similar. The par- 
ticulars of this transaction are given in his letter 

c 2 


*56 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


to the Duke of Grafton, Dec. 12, 1769, Vol. IE. 
p- 54, and in his private note to Mr. Woodfall 
of the same date, No. 15. ‘The rapidity with 
which the affair of General Gansell reached him 
has been already noticed. In his letter to the 
Duke of Bedford he narrates facts which could 
“scarcely be known but to persons immediately 
acquainted with the family. And when the 
printer was threatened with a prosecution in con- 
‘sequence of this letter, he says to him in a 
private note, ‘it is clearly my opinion that you 
have nothing to fear from the Duke of Bedford. 
I reserve some things expressly to awe-him in 
case he should think of bringing you before the 
House of Lords. I am sure I can threaten him 
privately with such a storm as would make him 
tremble even in his grave’.”? He was equally 
acquainted with the domestic concerns of Lord 
Hartford’s family*. Of a Mr. Swinney, a cor- 


* Private Letter, No. 10. 

* The following are two of the paragraphs alluded ‘to in 
Private Letter, No. 42. ¥ 

The Earl of Hartford is most honourably employed as terrier 
to find out theclergyman that married the Duke of Cumberland, 
an errand well fitted to the man. He might, however, be much 
better employed in marrying his daughters at the public ex- 
pense. Witness the promise of an Irish peerage to eo are 
&e. &e. 

Nobody is so vociferous as the Earl of Hartford on the sube 
ject of the late unprecedented marriage ! 


7 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *37 


respondent of the printer’s, he observes in 
another confidential letter, “* That Swinney is a 
wretched but a dangerous fool: he had the im- 
pudence to go to Lord Sackville, whom he had 
never spoken to, and to ask him whether or no 
he was the author of Juntus—take care of him'.” 
This anecdote is not a little curious : the fact 
was true, and occurred but a day or two before 
the letter was written: but how Junrus, unless 
he had been Lord Sackville himself, should have 
been so soon acquainted with it, baffles all con- 
jecture. In reality several persons to whom this 
transaction has been related, connecting it with 
other circumstances of a similar tendency, have 
ventured, but too precipitately, to attribute the 
letters of Junius to his Lordship’. 


* Private Letter, No. 5. ; 

* In the Miscellaneous Letters, No. vir. Vol. II. p. 491, the 
reader will meet with the following passage, pretty conclusively 
shewing the little ground there ever has been for any such 
opinion. “I believe the best thing I can do willbe to consult 
with Lord G, Sackville. His character is known and respected 
in Ireland as much as it is here ; and I know he loves to be 
stationed in the rear as well as myself.’ The letter from 
which the above is an extract, independently of its containing 
the style and sentiments of Junius, is thus additionally brought 
home to him by the printer’s customary acknowledgment in. 
the P. A. being followed by the subjoined observation: “ Our 
friend and correspondent C. will always find the utmost at- 
tention paid to his fayours,”’ 


#35 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


His secret intelligence respecting public 
transactions is as extraordinary. ‘The accuracy 
with which he first dragged to general notice 
the dismission of Sir Jeffery Amherst from his 
governorship of Virginia has been already 
glanced at. ‘* You may assure the public,” says 
he, in a Private Letter, Jan. 17, 1771, % that 
a squadron of four ships of the line is ordered 
to be got ready with all possible expedition for 
the East Indies. It is to be commanded by 
Commodore Spry. Without regarding the lan- 
guage of ignorant or interested people, depend 
upon the assurance J give you, that every man 
in administration looks upon war as inevitable’.” 

But it would be endless to detail every in- 
stance of early and accurate information upon 
political subjects with which his public and 
private letters abound. In many cases he was 
able to indicate even to the printer of the Public 
Advertiser himself the real names of those who 
corresponded with him under fictitious signa- 
tures. ‘‘ Your Veridicus,” says he, in one letter, 


* Private Letter, No. 28. The knowledge of this prepar- 
ation was communicated four days before the meeting of par- 
liament: the war however did not take place; but the prepar- 
ation is now known to have been a fact, the ministry being 
themselves fearful that the temper of parliament would have 
forced them into hostilities, from which in truth they very nar- 
rowly escaped. See note to the Private Letter of this No, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *39 


*¢ is Mr. Whitworth’. I assure you I have not 
confided in him’.”? ‘ Your Lycurgus,”’ he ob- 
serves in another letter?, ** is a Mr. Kent, a 
young man of good parts upon town.” 

Thus widely informed, and applying the in- 
formation he was possessed of with an unsparing 
hand, to purposes of general exposure in every 
instance of political delinquency, it cannot but 
be supposed that Junius must have excited a host 
of enemies in every direction, and that his safe- 
ty, perhaps his existence depended alone upon 
his concealment. Of this he was sufficiently sen- 
sible. In his last letter to Sir W. Draper, who 
had endeavoured by every means to stimulate him 
to a disclosure of himself, he observes, “* As to 
me, it is by no means necessary that I should be 
exposed to the resentment of the worst and the 
most powerful men in this country, though I 
may be indifferent about yours. Though you 
would jight, there are others who would assassi- 
nate*.”’ To the same effect is the following 
passage in a confidential letter to Mr. Woodfall. 
«I must be more cautious than ever: I am sure 
I should not survive a discovery three days ; or, 
if I did, they would attaint me by bill’.”” On 


* Richard Whitworth, Esq. M. P. for Stafford. 
? Private Letter, No.6. ° Id. No.5. * Vol. II. p. 8. 
5 Private Letter, No. 41, 


6 


*40 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


many occasions, therefore, notwithstanding all 
the calmness and intrepidity he affected in his 
public letters, it is not’ to be wondered at that 
he should betray some feelings of apprehension 
in. his confidential intercourse. In one of his 
Private Letters, indeed, he observes, “ As tome 
be assured it is not in the nature of things that 
they (the Cavendish family) or you or any body 
else should ever know me, unless I make myself 
known : all arts, or enquiries, or rewards, would 
be equally ineffectual’.’”” But .in other letters 
he seems not a little afraid of detection or sur- 
mise. “ Tell me candidly,” he says, at an early 
period of his correspondence with Mr. Wood- 
fall under the signature of Junius, ** whether 
you know or suspect who I am’.”” ‘“ You must 
not write to me again,” he observes in another 
letter, “‘ but be assured I will never desert 
you’.’”’ “* Upon no account, nor for any reason. 
whatever are you to write to me until I give 
you notice*.”” “ Change to the Somerset Coffee- 
house, and let no mortal know the alteration. 
Tam persuaded you are-too honest a man to con- 
tribute in any. way to’ my destruction. . Act 
honourably by me, and at a proper time you 
shall know me°.” . 


® Private Letter, No. 10. * Id. No.3. 4 Id. No. I8. 
* Id. No. 47. 5 Id. No. 41. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *4] 


The Somerset Coftee-house formed only one 
of a great variety of places, at which answers 
and other parcels from the printer of the 
Public Advertiser were ordered to be left. No 
plan indeed could be better devised for secrecy 
than that by which this correspondence was 
maintained, A common name, such as was by 
no means likely to excite any peculiar attention, 
was first chosen by Junius and a common place 
of deposit indicated :—the parcels from Junius 
himself were sent direct to the printing-office, 
and. whenever a parcel or letter in return was 
waiting for him, it was announced in the notices 
to correspondents by such signals as “‘ N. E.C.’”” 
— a letter,” “ Vindex shall be considered,” “C. 
in the usual place,”’ “an old Correspondent shall 
be attended to,” the introductory C. being a 
little varied from that commonly used; or by a 
line of Latin poetry. ‘* Don’t always use,”’ says 
our author, ‘the same signal: any absurd Latin 
verse will answer the purpose’. And when 


* Private Letter, No. 43.—As instances of these signals of 
different kinds the reader may accept the following, taken from 
the Public Advertiser according to their dates. 

August 12. 1771. A Correspondent may rest assured that 
his directions ever have been, and ever will be, strictly attended 
to. 


September 13, Be 
f Wy si (ob 
21, Cc : 


September 


*4Q PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


the answer implied a mere negative or affirmative, 
it was communicated in the newspaper by a sim- 
ple yes or no. ‘The names of address more com- 
monly assumed were Mr. William Middleton, 
or Mr. John Fretly, and the more common 
places of address were the bar of the Somerset 
Coffee-house as stated above, of the New Ex- 
change, or Munday’s in Maiden Lane, the waiters 
of which were occasionally feed" for their pune- 
tuality. But these too were varied for other 
names and places of abode as circumstances 
might dictate. 

By what conveyance Juntus obtained his 
letters and parcels from the places at which they 


September 27. C, 
October — 19. C, 
November 0. Cy 
8, G 
13. Vindex shall be considered. 
Q). Die ‘quibas in terris, et mihi eris» 
magnus Apollo, 
26. Quid rides? de TE fabula narratur. 
28. Received. 
30. ——dicere verum 
Quid vetat ? 
December 5. Jam Nova progenies coelo dimittitar 
alto. 
6. Received. 
Quis te MAGNE CATO tacitum ? 
17. Infandum, recina! jubes renovare 
dolorem. 


* Private Letter, No. 39, 


« 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *43 


were left for him is not very clearly ascertained. 
From the passage quoted from his Private Letter, 
No. 10, as also from the express declaration in 
the Dedication to his own edition of his letters, 
that he was at that time “the sole depository 
of his own secret,” it should seem that he had 
also been uniformly his own messenger: yet in 
his Private Letter of January 18th, 1772, he ob- 
serves, “ the gentleman who transacts the con- 
veyancing part of our correspondence tells me 
there was much difficulty last night’. In truth 
the difficulty, and danger of his constantly per- 
forming his own errand must have been extreme; 
and it is more reasonable therefore to suppose 
that he employed some person on whom he could 
place an implicit reliance; while to avoid the 
apparent contradiction between such a fact and 
that of his aftirming that he was the sole depo- 
sitary of his own secret, it is only necessary to 
conceive at the same time that the person thus 
confidentially employed was not entrusted with 
the full scope and object of his agency’. He 


* Private Letter, No: 51. 

* Mr. Jackson, the present respectable proprietor of the Ips- 
wich Journal, was at this time in the employment of the late Mr. 
Woodfall, and he observed to the editor, in September last, that 
he once saw atall Gentleman dressed in a light coat with bag and 
sword, throw into the office door opening in Ivy Lane, a letter 
of Juntus’s, which he picked up and immediately followed 
the bearer of it into St. Paul’s Church-yard, where he got 

inte 


44 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


sometimes, as we learn from his own testimony, 
employed a common chairman as his messenger", 
and perhaps this, after all, was the method most 
usually resorted to. 

That a variety of schemes were invented ne 
actually in motion to detect him there can be 
no doubt; but the extreme vigilance he at all 
times evinced, and the honourable forbearance 
of Mr. Woodfall, enabled him to baffle every 
effort, and. to persevere in his concealment to 
the last. “Your letter,’’ says he in one of his 
private notes, ** was twice refused last night, and 
the waiter as often attempted to see the person 
who sent for it *,’’ 

On another occasion his alarm was excited 
in consequence of various letters addressed to 
him at the printing-oflice, with a view as he sus- 
pected of leading to a disclosure either of his 
person or abode. “I return you,” says he in 
reply; ‘the letters you sent me yesterday. A 
man who can write neither common English; nor 
spell, is hardly worth attending to. It is pro 
bably a trap for me: I should be glad to know 
what the fool means. If he writes again, open 
his letter, and if it contain any thing worth my 


into a hackney coach and drove off. But whether this was 
“the gentleman who transacted the conveyancing part” or 
Junius himself, it is impossible to ascertain, 

* See Private Letters, No. 58 and66 note. * Id, Ib. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *45 


knowing, send it: otherwise not. Instead of ¢C. 
in the usual place’ say only ‘a letter’ when 
you have occasion to write to me again. I shall 
understand you'.’”’ ; . 
Some apprehension he seems to have suffered, 
as already observed, from the impertinent curi- 
-osity of Swinney ; but his resentment was chiefly 
roused by thatof David Garrick, who appears from 
his own account, and from intelligence on which 
he fully relied, to have been pertinacious in his 
attempts to discover him. For three weeks or 
a month, he could scarcely ever write to Mr. 
Woodfall without cautioning him to be spe- 
cially on his guard against Garrick: and under 
this impression alone, he once changed _ his 
address*. He wrote°to Garrick a private note 
of severe castigation through the medium of the 
printer, which: the latter, from anidea that it 
was unnecessarily acrimonious, resubmitted. to 
his consideration with a view of dissuading him 
from sending * it, upon which our author desired 
him to. tell Garrick personally to desist or he 
would be amply revenged upon him. “ As it is, 
important,” says he, ‘ to deter him from med- 
dling, I desire you will tell him I am aware of 
his practices, and will certainly be revenged if 


* Private Letter, No. 12. 7 Id. No. 41. 
* Compare Private Letter, No. 41. with No. 43. The letter 
to Garrick will be found in the former of these, 


*46 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


he does not desist. An appeal to the ae 
from Junius would destroy him*.’” 

It is not impossible to form a plausible guess 
at the age of Junius, from a passage in one of 
his Private Letters ; an enquiry, which, though 
otherwise of little or no consequence, is render- 
ed in some measure important, as a test to de- 
termine the validity of the claims that have been 
laid to his writings by different candidates or 
their friends. ‘The passage referred to occurs 
in his letter to Woodfall, dated Nov. 27, 17713 
* after long experience of the world,” says he, “I 
affirm before God I never knew a rogue who 
was not unhappy*.’? Now when this declaration 
is coupled with the two facts, that he made it 
under the repeated promise and intention of 
speedily disclosing himself to his correspondent?, 
and that the correspondent thus schooled, by a 
moral axiom gleaned from his own “ long expe- 
rience of the world,” was at this very time some- 
thing more than thirty years of age; it seems 
absurd to suppose that Junius could be much 
less than fifty, or that he affected an age he had 
not actually attained. 

There is another point in the history of his 
life, during his appearance as a public writer, 
which for the same reason must not be suffered 


* Private Letter, No. 43. * Id, No. 44. 3 Id. No, 41. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 47 


to pass by without observation, although other- 
wise it might be scarcely entitled to notice; and 
that is, that during a great: part of this time, 
from January, 1769, to January, 1772, he uni- 
formly resided in London, or its immediate vi- 
cinity, and that he never quitted his stated ha- 
bitation for a longer period than a few weeks. 
This too, we may collect from his private cor- 
respondence, compared with his public labours. 
No man but he, who with a thorough knowledge 
of our author’s style, undertakes to examine all the 
numbers of the Public Advertiser for the three 
years in question, can haveany ideaof the immense 
fatigue and trouble he submitted to by the com- 
position of other letters, under other signatures, 
in order'to support the pre-eminent pretensions 
and character of Junius, attacked as it was by 
a multiplicity of writers in favour of administra- 
tion, to whom, as Junius, he did not chuse to 
make any reply whatever. Surely Junius him- 
self, when he first undertook the office of public 
political censor, could by no means foresee the 
labour with which he was about to encumber 
himself. And instead of wondering that he 
should have disappeared at the distance of about 
five years, we ought much rather to be surprised 
that he should have persevered through half this 
period with a spirit at once so indefatigable and 
invincible, Junrus had no time for remote ex- 


*48 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


cursions, nor often: for relaxation, even in the 
vicinity of the metropolis itself. 

Yet from his Private Letters we could almost 
collect a journal of his absences, if not an itine- 
rary of his little tours: for he does not appear 
to have left London at any time without some 
notice to the printer, either of his intention, or 
of the fact itself upon his return home; inde- 
pendently of which the frequency and regularity 
of his correspondence seldom allowed of distant 
travel. ‘‘ Ihave been out of town,” says he; 
in‘his letter of Nov. 8, 1769, ‘‘ for three weeks ; 
and though I got your last, could not conveni- 
ently answer it'.’—On another occasion, “ I 
have been some days in the country, and could 
not conveniently send for your letter until this 
night* :”’ and again, ‘‘ I must see proof-sheets 
of the Dedication and Preface; and these, if at 
all, I must see before the end of next week 3,’? 
In like manner “ I want rest most severely, and 
am going to find it in the country jor a jew 
days*.”” ys . 

The last political letter that ever issued under 
the signature of Junius was addressed to Lord 
Camden. It appeared in the Public Advertiser 
for Jan. 21, 1772, and followed the publication 
of his long and elaborate address to Lord: Mans- 


Davate Vetter, Notion Id. No.7. 2 dann 
4 Td. No. 43. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *49 


field-upon the illegal bailing of Eyre; and was 
designed to stimulate the noble earl to a renewal 
of the contest which he had commenced with 
the chief justice towards the close of the preced- 
ing session of parliament. It possesses the pe- 
culiarity of being the only encomiastic letter 
that ever fell from his pen under the signature 
of Junius. Yet the panegyric bestowed was not 
for the mere purpose of instigating Lord Cam- 
den to the attack in question. There is sufficient 
evidence in his Private Letters that Junius had 
a very high, as well as a very just opinion of the 
integrity of this nobleman ; and an ardent desire 
that the estimate he had formed of his integrity 
should be known to the world at large. In the 
whole course of his political creed there seems 
to have been but one point upon which they dif- 
fered, and that was the doctrine assented to by 
his Lordship, that the crown possesses a power in 
case of very urgent necessity, of suspending the 
operation of an act of the legislature. It is a 
mere speculative doctrine, and Junius only in- 
cidentally alluded to it in a letter upon a very 
different subject’. The disagreement upon this 
point seems eagerly to have been caught at, 
however, by another correspondent in the Pub- 
lic Advertiser, who chose the signature of Sce- 


* Letter ix. Vol. IL. p. 344. 
VOL. I. D 


*50 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


vola, apparently for the express purpose of in- 
volving the political satirist in a dispute with his 
lordship. ‘“ Sceevola,’”’ observes he in a private 
letter, “I see is determined to make me an 
enemy to Lord Camden. If it be not wilful 
malice, I beg you will signify to him, that when 
I originally mentioned Lord Camden’s declara- 
tion about the corn bill, it was without any view 
of discussing that doctrine, and only as an in- 
stance of a singular opinion maintained by a man 
of great learning and ¢éegrity. Such an in- 
stance was necessary to the plan of my letter ’.’” 
And again, shortly afterwards, finding that the 
communication had not been received as it ought 
to have been, ‘* I should not trouble you or my- 
self about that blockhead Sczevola, but that his 
absurd fiction of my being Lord Camden’s ene- 
my has done harm. Every fool can do mischief, 
therefore signify to him what I said’.”? Not sa- 
tisfied however with this hint to the printer, he 
chose, at the same time, under the subordinate . 
character of Philo-Junius, to settle the point, 
and preclude all possibility of altercation. by an 
address to the public, that should dextrously 
mark out this single difference in a mere specu- 
lative opinion; and while it amply defended the 
view he had taken of the subject, should evince 


* Private Letter, No. 45. * Id, No. 46. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *51 


such an evident approbation of his Lordship’s 
general conduct, as could not fail of being gra- 
tifying to him. ‘This letter appeared in the Pub- 
lic Advertiser, Oct. 15, 1771". 

Lord Camden, however, was not induced by 
this earnest attempt and last letter of Junrus to 
renew his attack upon Lord Mansfield; yet this 
was not the reason, or at least not the sole or 
primary reason for Junius’s discontinuing to 
write. It has already been observed, that so early 
as July, 1769, he began to entertain thoughts 
of dropping a character and signature’ which 
must have cost him a heavy series of labour, and 
perhaps not unfrequently exposed him to no small 
peril. ‘I really doubt,” says he, “ whether I 
shall write any more under this signature. I am 
weary of attacking a set of brutes, whose writ- 
ings are really too dull to furnish me with even 
the materials of contention, and whose measures 
are too gross and direct to be the subject of ar- 
gument, or to require illustration*.”’ | 

In perfect consonance with this declaration, 
in his reply to the printer, who had offered him 
half the profits of the letters at that time pub- 
lished under his own correction, or an equal 
sum for the use of any public institution he 
should chuse to name, he makes the following 


* Letter tx. Vol, II, p. 360. ? Private Letter, No.3. 
D2 


#8 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


remark, of which a part has been already quoted 
on another occasion: ‘* As for myself, be assured 
that I am far above all pecuniary views, and no 
other person, I think, has any claim to share 
with you. Make the most of it therefore, and 
let your views in life be directed to a solid, how- 
ever moderate, independence: without it no 
man can be happy, nor even honest. If I saw 
any prospect of uniting the city once more, I 
would readily continue to labour in the vineyard. 
Whenever Mr. Wilkes can tell me that such an 
union is in prospect, he shall hear of me. Quod si 
guis existimat me aut voluntate esse mutatd, aut 
debilitatad virtute, aut animo fracto, vehementer 
errat*.”’ 

Even so long afterwards as January 19, 1773, 
in the very last letter we have any certain know- 
ledge he ever addressed to Mr. Woodfall, he 
urges precisely the same motives for his continu- 
ing to desist. ‘* I have seen the signals thrown 
out for your old friend and correspondent. Be 
assured I have had good reason for not comply- 
ing with them. In the present state of things, 
if I were to write again, I must be as silly as any 
of the horned cattle that run mad through the 
city, or as any of your wise aldermen. J meant 


* Private Letter, No. 59. “ But if any one believes me to be 
changed in will, weakened in integrity, or broken in courage, 
he errs grossly.” 


6 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *53 


the cause and the public: BOTH ARE GIVEN ur. I 
feel for the honour of this country, when I see 
that there are not ten men in it who will unite 
and stand together upon any one question. But 
it is all alike vile and contemptible. You have 
never flinched that I know of: I shall always re- 
joice to hear of your prosperity. If you have 
any thing to communicate of moment to your- 


self, you may use the last address and give a 


* Private Letter, No. 63. The signals here referred to were 
thrown out on the very morning of the day on which this 
letter was written, and consisted of the following Latin quo- 
tation, inserted in the Public Advertiser for January 19, 
1773, among the other answers to correspondents. Iterum- 
que, iterumque monebo. The printer, within a few weeks af- 
terwards, availed himself of the liberty of making a commu- 
nication to Junius by the last address, and in the Public Ad- 
vertiser of March 8, gave the following hint: “ The letter 
from AN OLD FRIEND AND CORRESPONDENT, dated January 19, 
came safe to hand, and his ‘directions are sérictly followed. 
Quod si quis existimat aut, &e.”” The quotation is peculiarly 
happy: for it is not only a copy of what Junrus had cited 
himself in his last Private Letter but one, and was hence 
sure to attract his attention, but is a smart replication to the 
passage in the letter it immediately refers to, “ You have never 
flinched that I know of.’’ The subject of some part of the 
communication at this time made by the printer to Junrus, the 
éditor has been able to discover, by having accidentally found 
among Mr. Woodfall’s papers, and in his own hand-writing, a 
rough draft of one of the three letters of which it appears to 
have consiated. This letter the reader will meet with in the 

private 


*54 PRELIMINARY ESSAY: ~ 


In effect from the dissolution of the consoli- 
dated Whig party upon the death of George 
Grenville, the absurd divisions in the Bill of 
Rights Society, and the political separations in 
the city, our author had much reason to despair 
of the cause in which he had so manfully en- 
gaged. . 
To the moral character of Junius this letter 
is of more value than all the popular addresses 
he ever composed in his life. It is impossible to 
suppose it to flow from the affectation of an ho- 
nesty which did not exist in his heart. The cir- 
cumstances under which it was sent altogether 
prohibit such an idea: unknown as he was, and 


private correspondence, arranged according to its date, which 
is March 7, 1773, the day antecedent to the public notice given 
in the Public Advertiser as above. Among the answers to cor- 
respondents March 20, we find another signal of the very same 
kind in the following terms, ‘“ Aut voluntate esse mutatd ;’? 
and in the same place March 29, a third ensign under the fol- 
lowing form, “ Aut debilitatd virtute ;” both of which it will 
be observed, upon a comparison, are verbal continuations of 
Junius’s own quotation, and hence, identify with double force 
the person to whom they relate. In the Public Advertiser of 
April 7, we find the following signal of a similar description, 
and it is the last we have been able to discover, “ Dic quibus 
in terris.’ tis probable that these all related to matters of a 
personal concern, upon which, by the above private letter, the 
printer had still leave to address his correspondent: at least 
there is no reason for believing that Junius ever broke through 
the silence upon which he so inflexibly determined on Ja- 
nuary 19, or consented to re-appear before the public in any 

character 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *55 


unknown as he had now determined to continue, 
to his correspondent, there was no adequate mo- 
tive for his assuming the semblance of an inte- 
grity which he felt not, and which did not fairly 
belong to him. It was, it must have been, a 
pure, disinterested testimonial of private esteem 
and public patriotism, consentaneous with the 
uniform tenor both of his open and his confiden- 
tial history, and conscientiously developing the 
real cause of his secession. 

In truth it must have been, as he himself 
states it, insanity, to have persisted any longer 
in any thing like a regular attack; Lord Camden 
had declined to act upon his suggestion; the 
great phalanx of the Whig party was-broken up 


character whatever. There were some very excellent letters 
signed Atticus that appeared in the Public Advertiser between 
the dates of June 26, 1772, and October 14, 1773, and exhibit 
much of our author’s style, spirit, and sentiments ; and which, 
hence, by some tolerable judges, have been actually ascribed 
to him: but for various reasons, independently of that afforded 
by the above private letter, the editor is convinced they are not 
the production of Junius. The talents they afford proof of, 
though considerable, are inferior ; they contain attacks upon 
some statesmen who were never attacked by Junius; and it is 
well known from the following notice inserted among the ad- 
dresses to correspondents in the Public Advertiser for June 19, 
1773, as well as from other facts, that there was at this period, 
and had been for some time past, another writer in this journal 
who assumed the name of Atticus. “ Some circumstances 
render it necessary that the printer should communicate a line 
to Articus, not his oun Correspondent.” 


#56 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


by the death of Mr. George Grenville; the va- 
nity and extreme jealousy of Oliver and Horne 
had introduced the most acrimonious divisions 
into the Society for supporting the Bill of Rights; 
and the leading patriots of the city had so inter- 
mixed their own private interests, and their own 
private squabbles with the public cause, as to 
render this cause itself contemptible in the eye 
of the people at large. He had already tried, 
but in vain, to awaken the different contending 
parties to a sense of better and more honourable 
motives; to induce them to forego their selfish 
and individual disputes, and to make a common 
sacrifice of them upon the altar of the consti- 
tution’, Yet, at the same time, so small were his 
expectations of success, so mean his opinion of 
the pretensions of most of the leading dema- 
gogues of the day to a real love of their coun- 
try, and so grossly had he himself been occasion- 
ally misrepresented by them, that in his confi- 
dential intercourse he bade his correspondent 
beware of entrusting himself to them. ‘“ No- 
thing,’ says he, ‘‘ can be more express than my 
declaration against long parliaments: try Mr. 
Wilkes once more, (who was in private possession 
of his sentiments upon this subject* ;) speak for me 
in a most friendly but firm tone, that I will not 


* See Junius, Letter trx. Vol. II. p. 344, and Private Let- 
ter, No. 65. * See Private Letter, No. 66. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *57 


submit to be any longer aspersed. Between 
ourselves, let me recommend it to you to be 
much upon your guard with patriots*.’’ 

With his public address to the people, there- 
fore, in Letter trix. he seems in the first in- 
stance to have resolved upon closing his labours 
at least under the character of Junius, provided 
no beneficial effect were likely to result from it, 
and as the printer had expressed to him an ear- 
nest desire of publishing a genuine edition of 
his letters, in a collective form, in consequence 
of a variety of incorrect and spurious editions 
at that time circulating through the nation, he 
seems to have thought that a consent to such 
a plan would afford him a good ostensible motive 
for putting a finish to his public career; and on 
this account he not only acceded to the proposal, 
but undertook to superintend it as far as his in- 
visibility might allow him; as also to add a few 
notes, as well as a dedication and preface. 

Nothing can be more absurd than the idea 
entertained by some writers, that Junius himself 
was the previous editor of one or two of these 
irregular editions, and especially of an edition 
published but a short time anterior to his own, 
audaciously enough entitled «* The genuine let- 
ters of Junius, to which are prefixed, anecdotes 


* Private Letter, No. 44. 


*58 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


of the author" ;”? a pamphlet in which the anony-= 
mous anecdotist takes it for granted, from his 
very outset, that Junius and Edmund Burke 
were the same person, and then proceeds to rea- 
son concerning the former, from the known or 
acknowledged works of the latter. 

It was not till the appearance of Newberry’s 
edition, with which it is not pretended that our 
author had any concern, that even Woodfall 
himself had conceived an idea of the propriety 
of collecting these letters, and publishing them 
in an edition strictly genuine, in consequence of 
the numerous blunders by which the common 
editions were deformed; of these Newberry’s 
was perhaps, the freest from mistakes: yet New- 
berry’s had so many, that our author, upon re- 
ceiving a copy of it, addressed a note to Wood- 
fall, begging him to hint to Newberry, that as 
he had thought proper to reprint his letters, he 
ought at least to have taken care to have cor- 
rected the errata ; adding at the same time, “I 
did not expect more than the life of a news- 
paper; but if this man will keep me alive, let 
me live without being offensive*.”’ 

His answer upon Woodfall’s application to 
him for leave to reprint his letters collectively, 
and subject to his own revisal, was as follows: 


* See Mr. Chalmers’s Appendix to the Supplemental Apo- 
logy &c. p. 24. * Private Letter, No. 4, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 459 


“T can have no manner of objection to your 
reprinting my letters if you think it will answer, 
which I believe it might, before Newberry ap- 
peared. If you determine to do it, give mea 
hint, and I will send you more errata (indeed 
they are innumerable) and. perhaps a preface’. 
It was on this occasion he added, as conceiving 
it might afford him a proper opportunity for a 
general close of the character though so early 
in his correspondence under the name of Ju- 
nius, as July 1769, “I really doubt whether I 
shall write any more under this signature ; lam 
weary of attacking a set of brutes &c*.” In 
answer to Woodfall’s next letter upon the same 
subject he observes, ‘“‘ Do with my letters exactly 
as you please. I should think that to make a 
better figure than Newberry, some others of my 
letters may be added ; and so throw out a hint that 
you have reason to suspect they are by the same 
author. If you adopt this plan I shall. point out 
those which I would recommend, for you know £ 
do not, nor indeed have I time to give equal care 
to them all>.” 

The plan for publication, however, though 
it commenced thus early, was not matured till 
October 1771: when it was determined that the 
work should comprise all the letters which had 
passed under the signatures of Junius and Philo- 


* Private Letter, No. 5. > Td. No. 6, 3 Id. No. 7. 
tl 


"#60 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Junius to this period inclusively, and be oceasi- 
onally enriched by a selection of other letters 
under a variety of other signatures, which, inde- 
pendently of that of Philo-Junius, our author, as 
has been observed already, not unfrequently em- 
ployed to explain what required explanation, or 
defend what demanded vindication, and which 
he himself thought sufficiently correct to asso- 
ciate with his more laboured productions. In the 
prosecution of this intention however, he still 
made the two following alterations. Instead of 
closing the regular series of letters possessing 
the signature of Junius with that dated October 
5, 1771", upon the subject of “the unhappy dif- 
ferences,” as he there calls them, “‘ which had 
arisen among the friends of the people, and di- 
vided them from each other”—he added five 
others which the events of the day had impelled 
him to write during the reprinting of the letters, 
notwithstanding the intention he had expressed 
of offering nothing further under this signature. 
And instead of introducing the explanatory let- 
ters written under other signatures, he confined 
himself, in order that the work might be pub- 
lished before the ensuing session of parliament, 
to three justificatory papers alone: the first, 
under the title of “A Friend of Junius,” con- 
taining an answer to ‘‘ A Barrister at Law;” the 


* Letter 1x. Vol. IL p. 344. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *6l 


second an anonymous declaration upon certain 
points on which his opinion had been mistaken 
or misrepresented; and the third an extract 
from a letter to Mr. Wilkes, drawn up for the 
purpose of being laid before the Bill of Rights 
Society, and vindicating himself from the charge 
of having written in favour of long parliaments 
and rotten boroughs. ‘This last however was fur- 
nished, not by Mr. Wilkes, but from his own 
notes ; ** you shall have the eztract,’”’ says he, “to 
go into the second volume: it will be a short 


9: 


one . 


* Private Letter, No. 45 The reader will readily pardon, 
and perhaps thank us, for pointing out to his particular atten- 
tion the following exquisite paragraph with which the above 
letter closes, but which formed no part of it as originally ad- 
dressed to Mr. Wilkes. It refers to an able argument that 
an excision of the rotten boroughs from the representative 
system might perhaps produce more mischief than benefit to 
the constitution. “ The man, who fairly and completely answers 
this argument, shall have my thanks and my applause. My~ 
heart is already with him.—I am ready to be converted.—I 
admire his morality, and would gladly subscribe to the articles 
of his faith.—Grateful, as Iam, to the coop BEING, whose 
bounty has imparted to me this reasoning intellect, whatever 
itis, I hold myself proportionably indebted to him, from whose 
enlightened understanding another ray of knowledge commu- 
nicates to mine. But neither should I think the most exalted 
faculties of the human mind, a gift worthy of the divinity ; 
nor any assistance, in the improvement of them, a subject of 
gratitude to. my fellow-creature, if I were not satisfied, that 
really to inform the understanding corrects and enlarges the 
heart.” : 


*62 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Of the five letters added after he meant to 
have closed, and had actually begun to reprint 
his series, four of them are either expressly ad- 
dressed to Lord Mansfield, or incidentally relate 
to him, in consequence of his having ¢dlegally 
(as it was contended) admitted a felon of the 
name of John Eyre to bail, who, although pos- 
sessing a fortune of nearly thirty thousand pounds 
sterling, had stolen a quantity of paper in 
quires out of one of the public offices at Guild- 
hall, and was caught in the very theft. The 
other letter is addressed to his steady object of 
inveterate hatred, the Duke of Grafton, upon 
the defeat of his attempt to transfer the Duke 
of Portland’s estate in Cumberland, consisting of 
what had formerly been crown lands, to Sir James 
Lowther, in order to assist the latter in securing 
his election for this county. 

Yet such was his anxiety to get this work 
completed and published before the winter session 
of parliament that he was ready to sacrifice the 
appearance of the whole of these additional let- 
ters, even that containing his elaborate accusa- 
tion of Lord Mansfield, and which he acknow- 
ledged to have cost him enormous pains, rather 
than that it should be delayed beyond this period. 
‘“*I am truly concerned,” says he in a private 
letter dated January 20, 1772, “to see that the 
publication of the book is so long delayed. It 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *63 


ought to have appeared before the meeting of 
parliament. By no means would I have you 
insert this long letter, if it make more than the 
difference of two days in the publication. Believe 
me, the delay is a real injury to the cause '.” 

The difficulties, however, of sending proofs 
and revises forward and backward were so con- 
siderable, that the anxiety of the author was not 
gratified: parliament met, but the book was not- 
published. Junrus became extremely impatient ; 
yet still, in the most earnest terms pressed its 
publication before Alderman Sawbridge’s motion 
in favour of triennial parliaments which was to- 
be brought forward in the beginning of March. 
‘*‘ Surely,” says he, in his private letter of Fe- 
bruary 22%, “ you have misjudged it very much 
about the book. I could not have conceived 
it possible that you would protract the publica- 
tion so long. At this time, particularly before 
Mr. Sawbridge’s motion, it would have been of 
singular use. You have trifled too long with 
the public expectation: at a certain point of 
time the appetite palls: I fear you have lost the 
season. The book, I am sure, will lose the 
greatest part of the effect I expected from it.— 
But I have done.” 

He was soon however consoled by intelli- 


* Private Letter, No. 51. * Id. No, 55. 


*64 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


gence from his friend Woodfall that, unduly as 
the book had been postponed, it was not for want 
of any exertions of his own; and that late as 
the season was, it would still precede the ex- 
pected motion of Alderman Sawbridge*. He, 
in consequence, replied as follows: “Ido you 
the justice to believe that the delay has been 
unavoidable. ‘The expedient you propose of 
printing the Dedication and Preface in the Public 
Advertiser is unadviseable. The attention of 
the public would then be quite lost to the book 
itself! Your rivals will be disappointed : nobody 
will apply to them, when they can be supplied 
at the fountain-head.— All I can now say is make 
haste with the book*.”” ‘ 

The Dedication, Preface, and the materials 
for his notes were all finished about the begin- 
ning of the preceeding November (1771). The 
letters at large, excepting the first two sheets 
which were revised by the author himself, were 
from the difficulty of conveyance entrusted to 
the correction of Mr. Woodfall. The Dedica- 
tion and Preface were? confided to the correction’ 
of Mr. Wilkes, with whose attention he expresses 
himself well pleased. “When you see Mr. 


* The letters were actually published March 3, and Alder- 
man Sawbridge’s motion discussed the ensuing day—which 
motion, however was lost by a majority of 251 against 83. 

? Private Letter, No. 56. 3 Id. No. 40, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *65 


Wilkes,”’ says he in a note of February 29, 1772, 
‘pray return him my thanks for the trouble he 
has taken. I wish he had taken more’ :’’ inti- 
mating hereby that there were still errors of 
which he was aware, and would have corrected 
if possible. 
Yet though he thus continued to adhere 
rigidly to his determination never again to appear 
before the public in his full dress, or under the 
signature of Junius, as he expresses it in his 
Private Letter of November 8, 1771, he did not 
object occasionally to introduce his observations 
and continue his severe strictures in a looser and 
less elaborate form, and under some. appellative 
or other, that might not interfere with the claims 
of Junius as a whole, as in the case of his series 
of letters to Lord Barrington, see No. cv, 
cvu, &c. These, however, it was not easy, in 
spite of the characteristic style that still per- 
vaded them, for the world at large to bring 
completely home to the real writer, though 
many of them were frequently charged to the 
account of Junius by the political critics of the 
day, in different addresses to the printer upon 
this subject. _ 
To judge of the moral and political character 
of Junius from his writings, as well private as 


* Private Letters, No 57, 
YOL, I. E 


*66 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


public, he appears to have been a man of a bold 
and ardent spirit, tenaciously honourable in 
his personal connexions, but vehement and in- 
veterate in his enmities, and quick and irritable 
in conceiving them. In his state principles he 
was strictly constitutional, excepting perhaps 
upon the single point of denying the impecca- 
bility of the crown; in those of religion he, at 
least, ostensibly professed an attachment to the 
established church. __ 

Of his personal and private honour, however, 
we can only judge from his connexion with Mr. 
Woodfall. Yet this connexionisperhaps sufficient; 
throughout the whole of it he appears in a light 
truly ingenuous and liberal. “ If undesignedly,” 
says he in one of his letters, “ I should send you 
any thing you may think dangerous, judge for 
yourself, or take any opinion you may think 
proper. You cannot offend or afflict me but by 
hazarding your own safety’.” To the same 
effect in another letter, “For my own part I 
can very truly assure you that nothing would 
afflict me more than to have drawn you into a 
personal danger, because it admits of no recom- 
pense. <A little expense is not to be regarded; 
and I hope these papers have reimbursed you. 
T never will send you any thing that 7 think 


* Private Letters, No. 43. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY.. x67, 


dangerous; but the risk is yours, and you must 
determine for yourself ’.’’ 

~ Upon another occasion, being sensible that 
he had written with an asperity that might alarm 
his correspondent, he again begged him not to 
print if he apprehended any danger; adding 
that, for himself he should not be offended at 
his desisting ; and merely requesting that if he 
did not chuse to take the risk he would transmit 
the paper as sent to him, toa printer who was well 
known to be less cautious than himself. “The in- 
closed,” says he,in one of his notes, “is of such im- 
portance, so very material, that it must be given to. 
the public immediately. Z will not advise, though 
I think you perfectly safe. All I say is that I 
rely upon your care to have it printed either 
to-morrow in your own paper, or to-night in the 
Pacquet *.”—To the same effect is the following 
upon another occasion. ‘I hope you will ap- 
prove of announcing the inclosed Junius to- 
morrow, and publishing it on Monday. If, for 
any reasons that do not occur to me, you should 
think it unadviseable to print it as it stands, I 
must intreat the favour of you to transinit it to 
Bingley, and satisfy him that it is a real Juntus, 
worth a North Briton extraordinary. It will be 
impossible for me to have an opportunity of al- 
tering any part of it 3.” WY 

* Private Letters, No, 33. *Id. No, 38. 


3 Td. No. 34. 
E 2 


*68 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Upon the printer’s being menaced with a 
prosecution on the part of the Duke of Grafton, 
in consequence of the publication of Junrus’s 
letter to him of the date of December 12, 1769, 
accusing this nobleman of having, in the most 
corrupt and sinister manner, either sold or con- 
nived at the sale of a patent place in the collec- 
tion of the customs at Exeter, he writes as fol- 
lows: “ As to yourself I am convinced the mi- 
nistry will not venture to attack you; they dare 
not submit to such an enquiry. If they do, 
shew no fear, but tell them plainly you will jus- 
tify, and subpoena Mr. Hine, Burgoyne, and 
Bradshaw of the Treasury : that will silence them 
at once’.’? The printer, however, was still fear- 
ful, and could not avoid expressing himself so 
to his invisible friend ; who thus replied to his 
proposal of volunteering an apology: ‘* Judge 
for yourself, I enter seriously into the anxiety 
of your situation ; at the same time I am strongly 
inclined to think that you will not be called 
upon, They cannot do it without subjecting 
Hine’s affair to an enquiry, which would be worse 
than death to the minister. As it is they are 
more seriously stabbed with this last stroke than 
with all the rest. At any rate, stand firm: (I 
mean with all the humble appearances of cons 


® Private Letters, No. 15, 


“PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *69 


trition;) if you trim, or faulter you will lose 
friends, without gaining others’. The friend- 
ly advice thus shrewdly given was. punctiliously 
followed ; and the predictions of Junius were 
more than accomplished: for the minister not 
only did not dare to enforce his menaces, but at 
the same time thought it expedient to drop ab- 
ruptly the prosecution of Mr. Vaughan, which 
this attack upon him was expressly designed to 
fight off, and to drop it too, after the rule 
against Vaughan had been made absolute. 

Upon the publication of Junius’s letter to 
the King, Woodfall was not quite so fortunate— 
- but his invisible friend still followed him with as- 
sistance: he offered him, as has already been 
observed, a reimbursement of whatever might 
be his pecuniary expenses, and aided him in a 
still higher degree with the soundest prudential 
and legal advice. Upon a subsequent occasion 
also, he makes the following observation. ‘As 
to yourself, I really think you in no danger. 
You are not the object, and punishing you 
would be no gratification to the King*.”’—But 
upon this subject, the following is one of the most 
important notes, as, although he expressly denies 
all professional knowledge of the law, it sufficiently 
proves that he was better acquainted with it than 
many who are actual practitioners. ‘I have care- 


* Private Letters, No, 17. * Id, No. 43, 


*70 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


fully perused the Information : it is so loose and 

-ill-drawn that Iam persuaded Mr. DeGrey' could 
not have had a hand init. Their inserting the 
whole, proves they had no strong passages to fix 
on. I still think it will not be tried. If it should, 
it will not be possible for a jury to find you 
guilty?.” 

In his first opinion he was mistaken ; in his 
second he was correct. The cause was tried at 
‘ Nisi Prius—but no one has yet forgotten that 
the verdict returned was “ guilty of printing and 
publishing only ;” which in fact implied not 
guilly at all}. 

It is to this cause, as has been already glanced 
at, we are chiefly indebted for an acknowledged 
and unequivocal right in the jury to return a 
. general verdict—that is, a verdict that shall em- 
brace matter of law as well as matter of fact. 
Upon the ambiguity of the verdict however, in 
the case before us, a motion was made by the de- 
_fendant’s counsel in arrest of judgment ; at the 
same time that an opposite motion was advanced 
by the counsel for the crown, for a rule upon the 
defendant to shew cause why the verdict should 
not be entered up according to the legal import of 

the words. On both sides a rule to shew cause was 


* At that time Attorney General. — * Private Letters, No. 20. 
3 See Editor’s notes to p. 18 of sis Volume, and p. 62 of 
Vol, IT. ‘ 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. yh | 


_granted, and the matter being argued before the 
_court of King’s Bench, Lord Mansfield, whose 
opinion was strongly in favour of the verdict be- 
ing entered up, was supported by the single 
opinion of Mr. Justice Smyth alone—the rest 
of the judges: unanimously opposing his lord- 
ship’s construction. The result was the grant of 
_anew trial, which, however, was not proceeded. 
_in, for want of proof of the publication of the 
paper in question. 

That Junius was quick and irritable in con- 
ceiving disgust, and vehement and even at times 
malignant in his enmities, we may equally as- 
certain from his private and his public commu- 
nications. In the violence of his hatreds almost 
every one whom he attacks is guilty in the ex- 
treme; there are no degrees of comparison ei- 
_ ther in their criminality or his own detestation : 
_ the whole is equally superlative. If the Duke 
of Grafton be the object of his address, ‘* every 
. villain in the kingdom,’ says he, “ is your 
friend’—the very sunshine you live in is a pre- 
lude to your destruction*.”. If Lord Mansfield 
fall beneath his lash, “ I do not scruple to af- 
firm, with the most solemn appeal to God for 
my sincerity, that in my judgment he is the 
worst and most dangerous man in the king- 
dom?.” An opinion corroborated by him in 


* Vol. Ip, 401. *Jd.p.406.  # Vol. Il. p, 443. 


*72 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


his private correspondence: ‘“ We have got the 
rascal down,” says he, “ let us strangle him 
if it be possible’.” In like manner addressing 
himself to Lord Barrington, ** You are so de- 
tested and despised by all parties (because all 
parties know you) that England, Scotland, and 
Ireland have but one wish concerning you’; 
while his note to the printer. accompanying this 
address, closes thus: ‘ The proceedings of this 
wretch are unaccountable. There must. be some 
mystery in it which I hope will soon be disco- 
~vered to his confusion. Next to the Duke of 
Grafton I verily believe the blackest heart in the 
kingdom belongs to Lord Barrington3.’? Even 
Scevola, an anonymous writer, whom he knew 
not, is “a blockhead” and “ a fool*” for opposing 
him: Swinney, for his impertinent enquiry of 
Lord G. Sackville, “ a wretched and a dangerous 
fool’ ;”” and Garrick, on the same account, “ a 
rascal, and a vagabond °.’’ 

- Yet itis not difficult to account for the more 
violent of his political abhorrences ; and which 
seem, indeed, to have been almost exclusively 
directed against the three ministerial characters 
- Just enumerated in conjunction with the earl of 
Bute : for his attacks upon the Duke of Bedford 


* Private Letters, No. 24. * Miscellaneous Letters, No. cxi. 
3 Private Letters, No. 61. © Id. No. 46 and 47, 
3 Ids No. 5. © Td. No. 41 and 43. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. “73 


and Sir William Blackstone, are but light and 
casual when compared with his incessant and 
unmitigated tirades against these noblemen. 

Firmly rooted in the best Whig principles of 
the day, he had an invincible hatred of Lord Bute 
as the grand prop and foundation-stone of Tory- 
ism in its worst and most arbitrary tendencies : 
as introduced into Carlton-house against the con- 
sent of his present Majesty’s royal grandfather, 
through the overweening favouritism of the prin- 
- cess dowager of Wales; as having obtained an 
entire ascendancy over this princess, and through 
this princess over the King, whose non-age had 
been entirely entrusted to him, and throtgh the 
_ king over the cabinet and the parliament itself. 
The introduction of Lord Bute into the post of 
chief preceptor to his Majesty was in our au- 
- thor’s opinion an inexpiable evil. ‘* That,’ says 
he, ‘* was the salient point from which all the mis- 
chiefs and disgraces of the present reign took 
life and motion.”’ Vol. II. p. 65. Thus despising 
the tutor, he could have no great reverence for 
the pupil: and hence the personal dislike he too 
frequently betrays, and occasionally in language 
altogether intemperate and unjustifiable, for the 
Sovereign. Hence, too, his unconquerable preju- 
dice against Scotchmen of every rank. 

The same cause excited his antipathy against 
Lord Mansfield, even before his Lordship’s arbi- 


wd ‘PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


trary line of conduct had proved that our au- 
thor’s suspicions concerning him) were well- 
founded. Lord Mansfield was a Scotchman : 
but this was not the whole. Under the patron- 
age of Lord Stormont, he had been educated 
with the highest veneration for the whole Stuart 
family, and especially for the Pretender ; whose 
health, when a young man, had been his favor- 
ite toast, and to whom his brother was private 
and confidential secretary. It was for these sen- 
timents, and for the politics which intruded them- 
selves in his judicial proceedings, where the 
crown was concerned, that our author expressed 
himself in such bitter terms against the chief 
justice. “ Our language,” says he, in Letter xut. 
Vol. IL. p. 160, “has no term of reproach, the 
- mind has no idea of detestation, which has not 
» already been happily applied to you, and ex- 
- hausted.—Ample justice has been done, by abler 
> pens than mine to the separate merits of your life 
and character. Let it be my. humble office to 
collect the scattered sweets, till their united vir- 
tue tortures the sense. 
His detestation of the Duke of Gintios pro- 
ceeded from his Grace’s having abandoned his 
~ patron Lord Chatham, and the Whig principles 
into which he had been initiated under him, to 
gratify his own ambition on the first offer that 
- occurred: from his having afterwards united 
5 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *75 


“sometimes with the Bedford party, sometimes 
‘with Lord Bute, and sometimes with other con- 
nexions of whatever principles or professions, 
whenever the union appeared favourable to his 
personal views ; and from his having hereby pre- 
vented that general coalition of the different di- 
visions of Whig’ statesmen, which must in all 
probability have proved permanently triumphant 
over the power of the King himself. “* My ab- 
horrence of the Duke,” says Juntus, “arises from 
an intimate knowledge of his character, and 
from’a thorough conviction that his baseness has 
been the cause of greater mischief to England 
‘than even the unfortunate ambition of Lord 
~“Bute’.” : 
It was not necessary for Lord Barrington to 
be a Scotchman in order to excite the antipathy 
of Junius. He might justly despise and even 
“hate him (if it be allowable to indulge a private 
hatred against a public character of any kind) 
~ for his political versatilities and want of all prin- 
ciple ; for atrocities indeed, which no man can 
yet have forgotten, and which never can be bu- 
ried in forgetfulness but with the total oblivion 
of his name. Barrington, independently of these 
general considerations, however, was the man 


* Vol. If. p. 311. 


*76 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 
who moved for Wilkes’s expulsion from parlias 
ment, in which he was seconded by Mr. Rigby. 

These were the prime objects of our author’s 
abhorrence ; and in proportion as other politi- 
cians were connected with them by principles or 
want of principles, confederacy, nation or even 
family, he abhorred them also. 

His reasons for believing that the constitu- 
tion allows him to regard the reigning prince as 
occasionally culpable in his own person, are 
given at large in his Preface. ‘To few people 
perhaps in the present day will they carry 
conviction. But, bating this single opinion, his 
view of the principles and powers of the consti- 
tution, appears to be equally correct and per- 
spicuous. Upon the question of general war- 
rants; of the right of juries to return general 
verdicts, or in other words, to determine upon 
the law as well as upon the fact; of the unli- 
mited power of Lords Chief Justices to admit to 
bail; of the illegality of suspending acts of par- 
liament by proclamation, we owe him much ; he 
was a warm and rigid supporter of the co-extent, 
as well as co-existence of the three estates of 
the government, and it was from this principle 
alone'that he argued against the system of inde- 
finite privilege as appertaining to either house 
individually ; and as allowing it a power of ar- 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 877 


bitrary punishment, for what may occasionally 
be regarded as a contempt of such house, or a 
breach of such privilege. 

Personally and outrageously inimical, how- 
ever, as he was, to the reigning prince, and 
earnestly devoted as he seems to have been to 
the cause of the people, neither his enmity nor 
his patriotism hurried him into any of those 
political extravagancies which have peculiarly 
marked the character of the present age: a li- 
mited monarchy, like our own, he openly pre- 
ferred to a republic; he contended for the cen- 
stitutional right of impressing, in case of emer- 
gency, sea-faring men for the common service. 
of the country ; strenuously opposed the sup- 
porters of the Bill of Rights, in their endea- 
vours to restore annual parliaments, and their 
fanciful, but as it appeared to him, unconstitu- 
tional plan of purifying the legislature by dis- 
franchising a number of boroughs which they 
had chosen to regard as totally corrupt and rot- 
ten: and anterior to the American contest was 
as thoroughly convinced as Mr. George Gren- 
ville himself of the supremacy of the legislature 
of this country over the American colonies’. 

Upon the first point he observes: ‘“ I can more 


* See Miscellaneous Letters, No x. as well as various others 
jn the year 1768. 


2 


#48" PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


readily admire the liberal spirit and integrity,: 
than the sound judgment of any man, who pre- 
fers a republican form of government, im this or 
any other empire of equal extent, to a monarchy 
so qualified and limited as ours. I am con- 
vinced, that neither is it in theory the wisest 
system of government, nor practicable in this 
country’.”? Upon the second point he appears 
to have been chiefly influenced by judge Foster’s 
argument on the legality of pressing seamen, 
and his comment on that argument may be seen 
in his observations, Vol. II. p. 381 andp. 393, 
Upon the third and fourth points he thus ingen- 
uously expresses himself: ‘* Whenever the ques- 
tion shall be seriously agitated, I will endeavour 
(and if I live, will assuredly attempt it,) to con- 
vince the English nation by arguments, to my 
understanding unanswerable, that they ought to 
insist upon a friennial, and banish the idea of an 
annual parliament. As to cutting away the 
rotten boroughs, Iam as much offended as any 
man at seeing so many of them under the direct: 
influence of the crown, or at the disposal of pri- 
vate persons; yet I own I have both doubts 
and apprehensions, in regard to the remedy you 
propose. I shall be charged, perhaps, with an 
unusual want of political intrepidity, when I 


* Vol, II. p. 347, 348. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. * #yg * 


honestly confess to you, that I am startled at the 
idea of so extensive an amputation. In the first 
place, I question the power de jure of the legis- 
lature to disfranchise a number of boroughs upon 
the general ground of improving the constitu- 
tion.—When you propose to cut away the rot- 
ten parts, can you tell us what parts are perfect- 
ly sound? Are there any certain limits, in’ 
fact or theory, to inform you at what point you 
must stop,—at what point the mortification 
ends *??” 

Juntus has been repeatedly accused of having 
been a party-man, but perhaps no political sa- 
tirist was ever less so. To Mr. Wilkes and 
Mr. Horne he was equally indifferent, except 
in regard to their public principles and pub- 
lic characters. In his estimation the cause 
alone was every thing, and they were only of 
value as the temporary and accidental support- 
ers of it. ‘ Let us employ these men,” says 
he, “in whatever departments their various 
abilities are best suited to, and as much to the 
advantage of the common cause, as their differ- 
ent inclinations will permit.—If individuals have 
no virtues their vices may be of use to us. I 
care not with what principle the new-born patriot 
is animated, if the measures he supports are 
beneficial to the community. The nation is in- 


Vol, II. p. 445—8. 


#30 PRELIMINARY ESSAY: 


terested in his conduct. His motives are his own, » 
The properties of a patriot are perishable in: 
the individual, but there is a quick succession 
of subjects, and the breed is worth preserv- 
ing’.”? It was in this view of the politics of 
the day, that he privately cautioned his friend 
Woodfall, as has been already noticed, “ to be 
on his guard against patriots* ;” and in the 
consciousness of possessing a truly independent 
spirit, that he boasted of being “ disowned, 
as a dangerous auxiliary, by every party in the 
kingdom,” his creed not expressly comporting 
with any single party creed whatever. 

Yet there were statesmen whom he believed 
to be truly honest and upright, and for whom 
he felt a personal as well as a political reverence ; 
and it is no small proof of the keenness of his 
penetration that the characters, whom he thus 
singled out from the common mass of pretenders 
to genuine patriotism, have been ever since grow- 
ing in the public estimation, and are now justly 
looked back to as the pillars.and bulwarks of the 
English constitution. His high opinion of the 
general purity and virtue of Lord Camden we 
have already noticed. ‘‘ Lord Bute,” says he, 
in describing several others of whom.he equally 
approved, “ found no resource of dependence 
or security in the proud, imposing superiority 

* Vol. II. p. 346, 356. * Private Letters, No. 44, 
3 Vol. II. p. 205. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *81 


of. Lord Chatham’s abilities, the shrewd, in- 
flexible judgment of Mr. Grenville’, nor in the 
mild, but determined integrity of Lord Rock- 
ingham’*.”” He also seems disposed to have en- 
tertained a good opinion of Lord Holland; and 
this is the rather entitled to attention, as the 
opinion was communicated confidentially. <I 
wish,” says he, “ Lord Holland may acquit 
himself with honour: if his cause be good, he 
should at once have published that account to 
which he refers in his letter to the mayor?.’” 
With respect to Mr. Sawbridge, and his worthy 
colleague, he observes, “ My memory fails me 
if I have mentioned their names with disre- 
spect ;—unless it be reproachful to acknow- 
ledge a sincere respect for the character of Mr. 
Sawbridge, and not to have questioned the in- 
nocence of Mr. Oliver’s intentions*.”” And 
again, adverting to the former, “ It were much 
to be desired, that we had many such men as 
Mr. Sawbridge to represent us in parliament.—I 


* Of all the political characters of the day Mr, Grenville ap- 
pears to have been our author’s favourite ; no man was more 
open to censure in many parts of his conduct, but he is never 
censured: while, on the contrary, he is extolled wherever an 
opportunity offers; yet Junrus positively asserted that he had 
no personal knowledge of Mr. Grenville. Compare Miscella- 
neous Letters, No. x1. July 30, 1768, with Vol. I. p. 193, 

* P. 167 of this Vol. 3 Private Letters, No. 5. 
* Vol. IT. p. 310. 


VOL. I. F 


*82 _ PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


speak from common report and opinion only, 
when [impute to him a speculative predilection 
in favour of a republic.—In the personal con- 
duct and manners of the man, I cannot be mis- 
taken. He has shewn himself possessed of that 
republican firmness, which the times require, and 
by which an English gentleman may be as use- 
fully and as honourably distinguished, as any 
citizen of ancient Rome, of Athens, or Lace- 
deemon’.”’ 

Yet the times were too corrupt, and the in- 
stances of defection too numerous, to allow so 
wary a statesman as Junius to regard even these 
exalted characters without occasional suspicion 
and jealousy. Much as. he approved of the 
Marquis of Rockingham personally, he regarded 
him publicly as forming a feeble administration 
that dissolved in its own weakness*. He had 
more than once some doubts of the motives 
both of Lord Camden and Lord Chatham : their 
opposition at the commencement of the Ameri- 
can contest he was jealous of; and ascribed it 
rather to political pique than to liberal patriot- 
ism’. To his friend he writes thus confidenti- 
ally, “The Duke of Grafton has been long Ia- ' 
bouring to detach Camden*;”’ and in unison 
with this idea he tells his Lordship himself pub- 


* Vol. II. p. 349. * P. 243 of this volume. 
* Ad. Pp. O40 * Private Letters, No, 47. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *83 


licly, ‘* If you decline this honourable office, 
I fear it will be said that, for some months past, 
you have kept too much company with the Duke 
of Grafton’.” And even as late as August, 
1771, when Lord Chatham had been progres- 
sively growing on his good opinion, he thus 
cautiously praises him. ‘ Jf his ambition be 
upon a level with his understanding ;—7f he 
judges of what is truly honourable for himself, 
with the same superior.genius, which animates 
and directs him to eloquence in debate, to wis- 
dom in decision, even the pen of Juntus shall 
contribute to reward him. Recorded honours 
shall gather round his monument, and thicken 
over him. It is a solid fabric, and will support 
the laurels that adorn it.—I am not conversant 
in the language of panegyric.—These praises 
are extorted from me; but they will wear well, 
for they have been dearly earned’.” 

In his religious opinions Junius has been ac- 
cused of deism and atheism; but on what ac- 
count it seems impossible to ascertain: he has 
by others been conceived to have been a dis- 
‘senter?; yet with as little reason. To judge 
from the few passages in his own writings that 
have any bearing upon the question, and which 
occur chiefly in his letter, under the signature 


* Vol. II. p. 443. 2 Id. p. 310, 311. 2 Heron’s 
edition of the Letters of Junius, Vol. I. p, 69. 
F 2 


«84 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


of Philo-Junius, of August 26, 1771, he ap- 
pears to have been a Christian upon the most sin- 
cere conviction ; one of whose chief objects was 
to defend the religion established by law, and 
who was resolved to renounce and give up to 
public contempt and indignation every man who 
should be capable of uttering a disrespectful 
word against it. To the religion of the court, 
it must be confessed that he was no friend; and 
to speak the truth it constituted, at the period 
in question, an anomaly not a little difficult of 
solution. To behold a sanctuary self-surround- 
ed by a moat of pollution ; a prince strictly and 
exemplarily pious, selecting for his confidential 
advisers men of the most abandoned debauchery 
and profligacy of life, demanded, in order to 
penetrate the mystery, a knowledge never com- 
pletely acquired till the present day, which has 
sufficiently demonstrated how impossible itis for 
a king of England, to exercise at all times a 
real option in the appointment of his minis- 
ters. The severity with which our author uni- 
formly satirized every Violation of public de- 
corum, at least entitles him to public grati- 
tude, and does credit to the purity of his heart' ; 
and if his morality may be judged of by various 
occasional observations and advices scattered 
throughout his private intercourse with Mr. 


* See especially Vol. I. p. 153, 154, 155, 159, 160, 236, 237, 
7 4 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *85 


Woodfall, some instances of which have already 
been selected, it is impossible to do otherwise 
than approve both his principles and his con- 
duct. 

Whether the writer of these letters had any 
other and less worthy object in view than that 
he uniformly avowed, namely, a desire to sub- 
serve the best political interests of his country, it 
is impossible to ascertain with precision. It is un- 
questionably no common occurrence in history, 
to behold a man thus steadily, and almost inces- 
santly, for five years, volunteering his services 
in the cause of the people, amidst abuse and 
slander from every party, exposed to universal 
resentment, unknown, and not daring to be 
known, without having any personal object to 
acquire, any sinister motive of individual ag- 
grandisement or reward. Yet nothing either 
in his public or private letters affords us the re- 
motest hint that he was thus actuated’. Through- 
out the whole, from first to last, in the midst of 
all his warmth, and rancour, his argument and 
declamation, his appeal to the public, and his 
notes to his confidential friend, he seems to 
have been influenced by the stimulus of sound 
and genuine patriotism alone. With this he 


" The only hint which can be gathered that he had any 
prospect at any time of engaging in public life, is in Private 
Letters, No. 17: but even this is of questionable meaning. 


*86 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


commenced his career, and with this he retired 
from the field of action, retaining, at least a 
twelvemonth afterwards, the latest period in 
which we are able to catch a glimpse of him, 
the same political sentiments he had professed 
on his first appearance before the world, and still 
ready to renew his efforts the very moment he 
could perceive they had a chance of being at- 
tended with benefit. Under these circumstances, 
therefore, however difficult it may be to acquit 
him altogether of personal considerations, it is 
still more difficult, and must be altogether un- 
just, ungenerous, and illogical to suspect his 
integrity. . 
It has often been said, from the general 
knowledge he has evinced of English jurispru- 
dence, that he must have studied the law pro- 
fessionally : and in one of his Private Letters 
already quoted, he gives his personal opinion 
upon the mode in which the information of the’ 
King against Woodfall was drawn up, in a man- 
ner that may serve to countenance such an’ 
opinion. Yet on other occasions he speaks ob- 
viously not from his own knowledge, but from a 
consultation with legal practitioners : ‘ The in- 
formation,” says he, * will only be for a misde- 
meanour, and J am advised that no jury, and 
especially in these times, will find it’.” In like 


* Private Letters, No, 18. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *87 


manner, although he affirms in his elaborate letter 
to Lerd Mansfield, ‘I well knew the practice 
of the court, and by what legal rules it ought 
to be directed’ ;”? yet he is for ever contemning 
the intricacies and littlenesses of special pleading, 
and in his Preface declares unequivocally, ‘ I 
am no lawyer by profession, nor do I pretend 
to be more deeply read than every English gen- 
tleman should be in the laws of his country. If 
therefore the principles I maintain are truly con- 
stitutional, I shall not think myself answered, 
though I should be convicted of a mistake in 
terms, or of misapplying the language of the 
law’.”? 

That he was of some rank and consequence 
seems generally to have been admitted by his 
opponents, and must indeed: necessarily follow, 
as has been already casually hinted at, from the 
facility with which he acquired political informa- 
tion, and a knowledge of ministerial intrigues. 
In one place he expressly affirms that his “‘ rank 
and fortune place him above a common bribe? ;”” 
in another ‘‘I should have hoped that even 
my name might carry some authority with it, if 
I had not seen how very little weight or con- 
sideration a printed paper receives even from the 


* Vol. II. p. 409. - 2 P. 10, 11 of this volume. 
3 Miscellaneous Letters, No. itv. Vol, IIL. p, 202, 


*88 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


respectable signature of Sir W. Draper’.”? On 
two occasions he intimates an intention of com- 
posing a regular history of the Duke of Grafton’s 
administration. ‘‘ These observations,” says he, 
“«¢ general as they are, might easily be extended 
into a faithful history of your Grace’s adminis- 
tration, and may perhaps be the employment of 
a future hour’ ;” and in a note subjoined to a 
subsequent letter, ‘‘ the history of this ridiculous 
administration shall not be lost to the public?.”” 
And on one occasion, and on one occasion only, 
he appears to hint at some prospect, though a 
slender one, of taking a part in the government 
of the country. It occurs in a private letter to 
Woodfall : «I doubt much whether I shall ever 
have the pleasure of knowing you; but, zf things 
take the turn I expect, you shall know me by my 
. works*.” 

Of those who have critically analyzed the 
style of his compositions, some have pretended 
to prove that he must necessarily have been of 
Trish descent or Irish education, from the pecu- 
liarity of his idioms; while, to shew how little 
dependence is to be placed upon any such 
observations, others have equally pretended 
to prove, from a similar investigation, that he 


* P.71 of this volume: * Id. p. 132. 
3 Vol. IL. p. 76. * Private Letters, No, 17. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *89 


could not have been a native either of Scotland 
or Ireland, nor have studied in any university 
of either of those countries. The fact is, that 
there are a few phraseologies in his letters pecu- 
liar to himself; such as occur in the composi- 
tions of all original writers of great force and 
genius, but which are neither indicative of any 
particular race, nor referable to any provincial 
dialect. | 

The distinguishing features of his style are 
ardour, spirit, perspicuity, classical correctness, 
sententious, epigrammatic compression : his cha- 
racteristic ornaments keen, indignant invective, 
audacious interrogation, shrewd, severe, antithe- 
tic retort, proud, presumptuous disdain of the 
powers of his adversary, pointed and appropriate 
allusions that can never be mistaken, but are 
often overcharged, and at times perhaps totally ~ 
unfounded, similes introduced, not for the pur- 
pose of decoration, but of illustration and energy, 
brilliant, burning, admirably selected, and irre- 
sistible in their application’. In his similes, how- 


* The following character of his style and talents is the pro- 
duction of a pen contemporaneous but hostile to him. It oc- 
curs in a letter in the Public Advertiser subscribed Alciphron, 
and dated August 22, 1771. The writer had well studied 
him. 

« The admiration that is so lavishly bestowed upon this 
writer, affords one of the clearest proofs, perhaps, that can be 
found, how much more easily men are swayed by the imagi- 

nation, 


*90 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


ever, he is once or twice too recondite, and in 
his grammatical construction still more fre- 
quently incorrect. Yet the latter should in most 
instances perhaps, if not the whole, be rather 
attributed to the difficulty of revising the press, 
and the peculiar circumstances under which his 
work was printed and published, than to any in- 
accuracy or classical misconception of his own. 
As to the surreptitious copies of his letters, he 
frequently complains of their numerous errors, 
« Indeed,” says he, ‘ they are innumerable’ ;” 
and though the genuine edition labours under 
very considerably fewer, and on several occa- 
sions received his approbation on the score of 


nation, than by the judgment; and that a fertile invention, 
glittering language, and sounding periods, act with far greater 
force upon the mind, than the simple deductions of sober 
reasoning, or the calm evidence of facts, For the talents 
of Junius never appeared in demonstration. 

Rapid, violent, and impetuous, he affirms without reason, 
and decides without proof ; as if he feared that the slow methods 
of induction and argument would interrupt him in his progress, 
and throw obstacles in the way of his career. But though he 
advances with the largest strides, his steps are measured. His 
expressions are selected with the most anxious care, and his 
periods terminated in harmonious cadence. ‘Thus he captivates 
by his confidence, by the turn of his sentences, and by the 
force of his words. His readers are persuaded because they 
are agitated, and convinced because they are pleased. ‘Their 
assent, therefore, is never withheld ; though they scarcely know 
why, or even to what it is yielded.” 

* Private Letters, No, 5, 
6 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. no) 


aecuracy, yet it would be too much to assert 
that it is altogether free from errors. In truth 
this was not to be expected, for it is not known 
that a single proof sheet (excepting those con- 
taining the first two letters) was ever sent to 
him. ‘ You must correct the press yourself,’ 
says he in one of his letters to Woodfall; ‘ but 
I should be glad to see corrected proofs of the 
two first sheets’? The Dedication and Preface 
he certainly did not revise. 

Yet if the grammatical construction be oc- 
casionally imperfect, (sometimes hurried over by 
the author, and sometimes mistaken by the 
printer) the general plan and outline, the train 
of argument, the bold and fiery images, the 
spirited invective that pervade the whole, ap- 
pear to have been always selected with the ut- 
most care and attention. Such finished forms of 
composition bear in themselves the most evident 
marks of elaborate forecast and revisal, and the 
author rather boasted of the pains he had be- 
stowed. upon them than attempted to conceal 
his labour. In recommending to Woodfall to 
introduce into his purposed edition various let- 
ters of his own writing under other signatures, 
he adds, “If you adopt this plan I shall point 
out those which I would recommend ; for you 
know, I do not, nor have I time to give equal 


* Private Letters, No. 40. 


%99 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


care to them all.—As to Junius I must wait for 
fresh matter, as this is a character which must 
be kept up with credit’.” The private note ac- 
companying his first letter to Lord Mansfield 
commences thus, ‘The inclosed, though begun 
within these few days, has been greatly laboured ; 
it is very correctly copied; and I beg that you 
will take care that it be literally printed as it 


stands* :” 


The note accompanying his last and 
most celebrated letter observes as follows: “ At 
last I have concluded my great work, and as- 
sure you with no small labour’.”” On sending 
the additional papers for the genuine edition he 
asserts, “J have no view but to serve you, and 
consequently have only to desire that the Dedi- 
cation and Preface may be correct. Look to it ; 
—if you take it upon yourself, I will not forgive 
your suffering it to be spoiled. J weigh every . 
word ; and every alteration, inmy eyes at least, is 
a blemish*.” n like manner in his letter to Mr. 
Horne, he interrogates him, “ What public 
question have I declined, what villain have I 
spared? Ls there no labour in the composition of 
these letters’ ?”? In effect no excellence of any 
kind is to be attained without labour: and the 
degree of excellence that characterises the style 


* Private Letters, No. 7. ” Id. No. 24. 
3 Id. No. 40. 4 Id. No, 46, 
5 Vol. Il. p. 308, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. #93 


of these addresses, intrinsically demonstrates the 
exercise of a labour unsparing and unremitted. 
Mr. Horne, in his reply, attempts to ridicule this 
acknowledgment : “ I compassionate,’’ says he, 
“your labour in the composition of your letters, 
and will communicate to you the secret of my 
fluency.—Truth needs no ornament; and, in 
my opinion, what she borrows of the pencil is 
deformity’.”? Yet no man ever bestowed more 
pains upon his compositions than Mr. Horne has 
done : nor needed he to have been more ashamed 
of the confession than his adversary. ‘To have 
made it openly would have been honest to him- 
self, useful to the young, and salutary to the 
conceited. 

His most elaborate letters are that to the 
King, and that to Lord Mansfield upon the law 
of bailments: one of his most sarcastic is that 
to the Duke of Grafton, of the date of May 30, 
1769; and one of his best and most truly valu- 
able that to the printer of the Public Advertiser, 
dated Oct. 5, 1771, upon the best means of 
uniting the jarring sectaries of the popular party 
into one common cause. 

His metaphors are peculiarly brilliant, and 
so numerous, though seldom unnecessarily in- 
troduced, as to render it difficult to know where 
to fix in selecting a few examples. The follow- 


* Vol. II. p. 320. 


*O4 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


ing are ably managed, and require no explanation. 
* The ministry, it seems, are labouring to draw 
a line of distinction between the honour of the 
crown and the rights of the people. This new 
idea has yet been only started in discourse, for, 
in effect, both objects have been equally sacri- 
ficed. I neither understand the distinction, nor 
what use the ministry propose to make of it. 
The King’s honour is that of his people. ‘Their 
real honour and real interest are the same.—I am 
not contending for a vain punctilio.—Private 
credit is wealth; public honour is security. —The 
feather that adorns the royal bird, supports its 
flight. Strip him of his plumage and you fix him 
to the earth'.”” Again: “ Above all things, let me 
guard my countrymen against the meanness and 
folly of accepting of a trifling or moderate com- 
pensation for extraordinary and essential injuries. 
Concessions, such as these, are of little moment , 
to the sum of things ; unless it be to prove, that 
the worst of men are sensible of the injuries 
they have done us, and perhaps to demonstrate 
to us the imminent danger of our situation. 
In the shipwreck of the state, trifles float and 
are preserved ; while every thing solid and valu- 
able sinks to the bottom, and is lost for ever’.’’ 
Once more: ‘The very sun-shine you live in, 
is a prelude to your dissolution. When you 


Vol. IL. p. 194. Td. p. 359, 360, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. #95 


are ripe, you shall be plucked'.”” The com- 
mencement of his letter to Lord Camden shall 
furnish another instance: ‘I turn with pleasure, 
from that barren waste, in which no salutary 
plant takes root, no verdure quickens, to a 
character fertile, as I willingly believe, in every 
great and good qualification*.” 

In a few instances his metaphors are rather 
too far-fetched or recondite: ‘Yet for the benefit 
of the succeeding age, I could wish that your 
retreat might be deferred, until your morals shall 
be happily ripened to that maturity of corruption, 
at which the worst examples cease to be conta- 
gious?.”” The change which is perpetually taking 
place in the matter of infection gives it progres- 
sively a point of utmost activity :—after which 
period, by the operation of the same continued 
change, it becomes progressively less active, till 
at length it ceases to possess any effect whatever. 
The parallel is correctly drawn, but it cannot be 
followed by every one. In the same letter we 
have another example: ‘* His views and situ- 
ation required a creature void of all these pro- 
perties ; and he was forced to go through every 
division, resolution, composition, and refine- 
ment of political chemistry, before he happily 
arrived at the caput mortuum of vitriol in your 


* Vol. II. p. 406. > Id. p. 441. 
3 Vol. I. p. 172. 


*96 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Grace. Flat and insipid in your retired. state; 
but brought into action, you become vitriol 
again’. ‘This figure is too scientific, and not 
quite correct: vitriol cannot, properly speaking, 
be said to be, in any instance, a caput mortuum. 
He seems, however, to have been unjustly. 
charged with an incongruity of metaphor in his 
repartee upon the following observation of Sir 
W. Draper, “ You, indeed, are a tyrant of another 
sort, and upon your political bed of torture can 
excruciate any subject, from a first minister down 
to such a grub or butterfly as myself’.’”? To 
this remark his reply was as follows: “ If Sir 
W. Draper’s bed be a bed of torture, he has 
made it for himself. I shall never interrupt his 
repose>.”” We need not ramble so far as to vin- 
dicate the present use of this last word by re- 
ferring to its Latin origin: he himself has justly 
noticed under the signature of Philo-Junius, that 
those who pretend to espy any absurdity either 
in the idea or expression, ‘ cannot distinguish 
between a sarcasm and a contradiction*.” 

To pursue this critique further would be to 
disparage the judgment of the reader. Upon 
the whole these letters, whether considered as 
classical and correct compositions, or as ad-- 
dresses of popular and impressive eloquence, 


* Vol. I. p, 167, * Vol. Ui,. p,. 10, 3 Id. p. 15. 
4 Id. p. 29. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. ROT 


are well entitled to the distinction they have ac- 
quired ; and quoted as they have been, with 
admiration, in the senate by such nice judges 
and accomplished scholars as Mr. Burke and 
Lord Eldon, eulogized by Dr. Johnson, and 
admitted by the author of the Pursuits of Lite- 
rature, to the same rank among English classics 
as Livy or Tacitus among Roman, there can be 
no doubt that they will live commensurately 
with the language in which they are composed. 

These few desultory and imperfect hints are 
the whole that the writer of this essay has been 
able to collect concerning the author of the 
Letters of Junrus. Yet desultory and imperfect 
as they are he still hopes that they may not be 
utterly destitute both of interest and_ utility. 
Although they do not undertake positively to as- 
certain who the author was; they offer a fair 
test to point out negatively who he was not ; 
and to enable us to reject the pretensions of a 
host of persons, whose friends have claimed for 
them so distinguished an honour, 

From the observations contained in this 
essay it should seem to follow unquestionably 
that the author of the letters of Junius was an 
Englishman of highly cultivated education, 
deeply versed in the language, the laws, the 
constitution and history of his native country: 
that he was a man of easy if not of affluent. cir- 

VOL. I. G@ 


=95 PRELIMINARY. ESSAY. 


cumstances, of unsullied honour and generosity, 
who had it equally in his heart and in his power 
to contribute to the necessities of other persons, 
and especially of those who were exposed to 
troubles of any kind on his own account : that 
he was in habits of confidential intercourse, if 
not with different members of the cabinet, with 
politicians who were most intimately familiar 
with the court, and entrusted with all its secrets: 
that he had attained an age which would allow 
him, without vanity, to boast of an ample know- 
ledge and experience of the world: that during 
the years 1767, 1768, 1769, 1770, 1771, and 
part of 1772, he resided almost constantly in 
London or its vicinity, devoting a very large 
portion of his time to political concerns, and 
publishing his political lucubrations, under dif- 
ferent signatures, in the Public Advertiser; that 
in his natural temper, he was quick, irritable and 
impetuous ; subject to political prejudices and 
strong personal animosities; but possessed of 
a high independent spirit; honestly attached 
to the principles of the constitution, and fearless 
and indefatigable in maintaining them; that he 
was strict in his moral conduct, and in his at- 
tention to public decorum; an avowed member 
of the established church, and, though acquaint- 


ed with English judicature, not a lawyer by pro- 
fession. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *99 


What other characteristics he may have pos- 
sessed we know not; but these are sufficient ; 
and the claimant who cannot produce them con- 
jointly is in vain brought forwards as the author 
of the Letters of Juntus. 

The persons to whom this honour has at 
different times, and on different grounds been 
attributed are the following: Charles Lloyd, a 
clerk of the Treasury, and afterwards, a deputy 
teller of the Exchequer; John Roberts, also a 
clerk in the Treasury at the commencement of 
his political life, but afterwards successively 
private secretary to Mr. Pelham when chancel- 
lor of the exchequer, member of parliament for 
Harwich, and commissioner of the board of 
trade *; Samuel Dyer, a man of considerable 
learning, and a friend of Mr. Burke and of Dr. 
Johnson; William Gerard Hamilton, another 
friend and patron of Mr. Burke ; Edmund Burke 
himself; Dr. Butler, late bishop of Hereford ; 
the Rev. Philip Rosenhagen ; Major-General 
Charles Lee, well-known for his activity during 
the American war; John Wilkes; Hugh Mac- 
auley Boyd; John Dunning, Lord Ashburton ; 
Henry Flood; and Lord George Sackville. 

Of the three first of these reported authors 


* Anonymously accused of having written these letters in 
the Public Advertiser, March 21, 1772, et passin. 
ae 


o~ 


*100. PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


of the Letters of Junius, it will be sufficient to 
observe, without entering into any other fact 
whatever, that Lloyd was on his death-bed at 
the date of the last of Junt1us’s private letters ; 
an essay, which has sufficient proof of having 
been written in the possession of full health and 
spirits; and which, together with the rest of 
our author’s private letters to the Printer of the 
Public Advertiser, is in the possession of the 
proprietor of this edition, and bear date January 
19th, 1773. While as to Roberts and Dyer, 
they had both been dead for many months an- 
terior to this period: Lloyd died, after a lin- 
gering illness, January 22d,1773; Roberts July 
13th, and Dyer on September 15th, both in the 
preceding year. 

Of the two next reputed authors; Hamilton 
had neither energy nor personal courage enough 
for such an undertaking *, and Burke could not 


* Hamilton, from his having once made a brilliant speech in 
the lower House of Great Britain and ever afterwards remain- 
ing silent, was called Single-speech Hamilton. In allusion to this 
fact, and that he was the real Junius, there is a letter in the 
Public Advertiser of November 30, 1771, addressed to Wit- 
Liam Junius StincLe-sPEECH, Esq. The air of Dublin how- 
ever, should seem, according to Mr. Malone’s account of him, 
to have been more favourable to his rhetorical powers than that 
of Westminster : for this writer tells us that Mr. Hamilton made 
not less than five speeches in the Irish Parliament in the single 
Session of 1761—2. Parliamentary Logic, Pref. p. xxti. . 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *101 


have written in the style of Junrus, which was 
precisely the reverse of his own, nor could he 
have consented to have disparaged his own 
talents in the manner in which Junrus has dis- 
paraged them in his letter to the Printer of the 
Public Advertiser, dated October 5, 17713 in- 
dependently of which, both of them solemnly 
denied that they were the authors of these let- 
ters, Hamilton to Mr. Courtney in his last illness, 
as that gentleman has personally informed the 
editor ; and Burke expressly and satisfactorily to 
Sir William Draper, who purposely interrogated 
him upon the subject ; the truth of which denial 
is, moreover, corroborated by the testimony of 
the late Mr. Woodfall, who repeatedly declared 
that neither of them were the writers of these 
compositions. Why Burke was so early and 
generally suspected of having written them it is 
not easy to say ;, but that he was so suspected is 
obvious not only from the opinion at first enter- 
tained by Sir William Draper, but from various 
public accusations conveyed in different news- 
papers and pamphlets of the day; the Publie 
Advertiser in the month of October containing 
one letter under the signature of Zeno, addressed 
“to Junius, alias, Edmund, the Jesuit of St. 
Omers *;” another under the signature of Pliny 


* See Note to Letter Lx1. 


*102 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Junior, a third under that of Querist, a fourth 
under that of Oxoniensis, and a fifth under that 
of Sceevola; together with many others to the 
same effect: and, as has already been hinted at, 
an anonymous collector of many of the letters 
of Junius, prefixing to his own edition certain 
anecdotes of Mr. Burke, which he confidently 
denominated “ Anecdotes of Junius,” thus pur- 
posely, but fallaciously, identifying the two 
characters *. 

If however there should be readers so inflex- 
ible as still to believe that Mr. Burke was the 
real writer of the Letters of Junius, and that his 
denial of the fact to Sir William Draper was only 
wrung from him under the influence of fear, it 
will be sufficient to satisfy even such readers by 
shewing that the system of politics of the one 


* In addition to the above proofs that Burke and Junius 
were not the same person, the editor might refer to the prose- 
cution which Mr. Burke instituted against Mr. Woodfall, the 
Printer of the Public Advertiser, and conducted with the ut- 
most acrimony for a paper deemed libellous that appeared in 
this journal in the course of 1783. Considerable interest was 
made with Mr. Burke to induce him to drop this prosecution 
in different stages of its progress, but he was inexorable. The 
cause was tried at Guildhall July 15, 1784, and a verdict of a 
hundred pounds damages was obtained against the printer ; 
the whole of which was paid to the prosecutor. It is morally 
impossible that Junius could have acted in this manner : every 
anecdote in the preceding sketch of his public life forbids the 
belief that he could, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *103 


was in direct opposition to that. of ‘the other 
upon a variety of the most’ important points. 
Burke was a decided partisan of Lord Rocking- 
ham, and continued so during the whole of that 
nobleman’s life: Junrus, on the contrary, was 
as decided a friend to Mr. George Grenville. 
Each was an antagonist to the other upon the 
great subject of the American Stamp Act. 
JuNIUS was a warm and powerful advocate for 
triennial parliaments; Burke an inveterate ene- 
my to them. To which the editor may be 
allowed to add, that while Mr. Burke in correct- 
ing his manuscripts for the press, and revising 
them in their passage through it, is notorious for 
the numerous alterations he was perpetually 
making, the copy with which the late Mr. 
Woodfall was furnished by Junrus for the ge- 
nuine edition of his Letters contained very few 
amendments of any kind. 

The following extracts from Mr. Burke’s 
celebrated speech on American taxation, de- 
livered April 19, 1774, will put the reader into 
possession of that gentleman’s arguments upon 
each of the above public questions, and, com- 
pared with the short subjoined extracts from 
Junius, will justify the contrast which the editor 
has thus ventured to offer. It will also. present 
the reader with a brilliant specimen of the 
eloquence of both characters. 


*104 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Mr. Burke observes, in the course of this 
celebrated speech’, that ‘‘ In the year 1765, 
being in a very private station, far enough 
from any line of business, and not having 
the honour of a seat in this house, it was my 
fortune, unknowing and unknown to the then 
ministry, by the intervention of a common 
friend to become connected with a very noble 
person, and at the head of the treasury de- 
partment, [Lord Rockingham.] It was in- 
deed in a situation of little rank and no con- 
sequence, suitable to the mediocrity of my 
talents and pretensions. But a situation near 
enough to enable me to see, as well as others, 
what was going on; and I did see in that noble 
person such sound principles, such an enlarge- 
ment of mind, such clear and sagacious sense, 
and such unshaken fortitude, as have bound me, 
as well as others much better than me, by an 
inviolable attachment to him from that time 
forward’.” 

“<I think the enquiry lasted in the com- 
mittee for six weeks; and at its conclusion 
this house, by an independent, noble, spirited, 
and unexpected majority; by a majority that 
will redeem all the acts ever done by majorities 
in parliament; in the teeth of all the old mer- 


* See 8yo. edit of his works, Vol. II. p. 389. et. seq. 
* Burke’s Works, Vol. II. p. 399. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *105 


cenary Swiss of state, in despite of all the spe- 
culators and augurs of political events, in de- 
fiance of the whole embattled legion of veteran 
pensioners and practised instruments of a court, 
gave a total repeal to the stamp-act, and (if it 
had been so permitted) a lasting peace to. this 
whole empire’.” 

*« T will likewise do justice, I ought to do it, 
to the honourable gentleman who led us in this 
house [General Conway]. Far from the dupli- 
city wickedly charged on him, he acted his 
part with alacrity and resolution. We all felt 
inspired by the example he gave us, down even 
to myself, the weakest in that phalanx. I declare 
for one, I knew well enough (it could not be 
concealed from any body) the true state of 
things ; but, in my life, I never came with so 
much spirits into this house. It was a time for 
a man to act in. We-had powerful enemies ; 
but we had faithful and determined friends; and 
a glorious cause. We had a great battle to fight; 
but we had the means of fighting; not as now, 
when our arms are tied behind us. We did 
fight that day and conquer’.” . 

*« Tremember, Sir, with a melancholy plea- 
sure, the situation of the hon. gentleman [Ge- 
neral Conway] who made the motion for the 


* Burke’s Works, Vol. Il. p. 403. * Id. p. 40. 


*106 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


repeal; in that crisis, when the whole trading 
interest of this empire, crammed into your lob- 
bies, with a trembling and anxious expectation, 
waited almost to a winter’s return of light, their 
fate from your resolutions. When, at length, 
you had determined in their favour, and your 
doors thrown open, shewed them the figure of 
their deliverer in the.well-earned triumph of his 
important victory, from the whole of that grave 
multitude there arose an involuntary burst of 
gratitude and transport. ‘They jumped upon 
him like children on a long absent father. They 
clung about him as captives about their re- 
deemer. All England, all America, joined in 
his applause. Nor did he seem insensible to 
the best of all earthly rewards, the love and 
admiration of his fellow-citizens. * Hope ele- 
vated and joy brightened his crest.’ I stood 
near him; and his face, to use the expression 
of the scripture of the first martyr, ‘his face 
was asif it had been the face of an angel.’ I do 
not know how others feel; but if I had stood 
in that situation, I never would have exchanged 
it for all that kings in their profusion could be- 
stow. I did hope, that that day’s danger and 
honour would have been a bond to hold us all 
together for ever. But, alas! that, with other 
pleasing visions, is long since vanished. 

* Sir, this act of supreme magnanimity 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *107 


has been represented, as if it had been a mea- 
sure of an administration, that, having no 
scheme of their own, took a middle line, pil- 
fered a bit from one side and a bit from the 
other. Sir, they took no middle lines. They 
differed fundamentally from the schemes of both 
parties; but they preserved the objects of both. 
They preserved the authority of Great Britain. 
They preserved the equity of Great Britain. 
They made the declaratory act; they repealed 
the stamp-act. They did both fully ; because 
the declaratory act was without qualification, and 
the repeal of the stamp-act fofal*.”’ 

« Sir, the agents and distributors of false- 
hoods have, with their usual industry, circulated 
another lie of the same nature with the former. 
It is this, that the disturbances arose from the 
account which had been received in America of 
the change in the ministry. No longer awed, 
it seems, with the spirit of the former rulers, 
they thought themselves a match for what our 
calumniators choose to qualify by the name: of so 
Jeeble a ministry as succeeded: Feeble in one 
sense these men certainly may be called ; for 
with all their efforts, and they have made many, 
they haye not been able to resist the distempered 
vigour, and insane alacrity with which you are - 
rushing to your ruin’.” 


* Burke’s Works, Vol. II. p. 409. * Id. p. 414. 


*108 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


“« On this business of America I confess I 
am serious, even to sadness. I have had but 
one opinion concerning it since I sat, and before 
I sat in parliament. * * * * * Thonestly 
and solemnly declare, I have in all seasons ad- 
hered to the system of 1766, for no other reason 
than that I think it laid deep in your truest inter- 
ests, and that, by limiting the exercise, it fixes 
on the firmest foundations, a real, consistent, 
well-grounded authority in parliament. Until 
you come back to that system, there will be no 
peace for Iingland'.” 

<< No man can believe, that at. this time 
of day I mean to lean on the venerable memory 
of a great man, whose loss we deplore in com- 
mon. Our little party differences have been 
long ago composed; and I have acted more 
with him, and certainly with more pleasure 
with him, than ever I acted against him. - Un- 
doubtedly Mr. Grenville was a first-rate figure 
in this country. . With a masculine understand- 
ing, and a stout and resolute heart, he had an 
application undissipated and unwearied. He 
took public business not as a duty which he 
was to fulfil, but as a pleasure he was to en- 
joy; and he seemed to have no delight out of 
this house, except in such things as some way 
related to the business that was to be done with- 


* Burke’s Works, Vol. IL. p. 439. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *109 


init. If he was ambitious, I will say this for 
him, his ambition was of a noble and generous 
strain. It was to raise. himself not by the low 
pimping politics of a court, but to win his way 
to power, through the laborious gradations of 
public service ; and to secure himself a well- 
earned rank in parliament, by a thorough know- 
ledge of its constitution, and a perfect practice 
pivalbedtss business.4 (5 o*)iohab A ettigy Pou Fo ® 
He was bred in a profession. He was bred to 
the law, which is, in my opinion, one of the 
first and noblest of human sciences; a science 
which does more to quicken and invigorate the 
understanding, than all the other kinds of learn- 
ing put together; but it is not apt, except in 
persons very happily born, to open and to libe- 
ralize the mind exactly in the same proportion’.”” 

Let the reader compare the opinions con- 
tained in the above extracts with the following, 
taken almost at hazard, from different produc- 
tions of Junius, and he will have no difficulty 
in determining that the writer of the one set 
could not be the writer of the other. 

«To prove the meaning and intent of the 
legislature, will require a minute and tedious de- 
duction. To investigate a question of law de- 
mands some labour and attention, though very 


© Burke’s Works, Vol. II. p. 389. 


*110 PRELIMINARY ESSAY: 


little genius or sagacity. As a practical profes- 
‘sion, the study of the law requires but a mo- 
derate portion of abilities. The learning of a 
pleader is usually upona level with his integrity. 
The indiscriminate defence of right and wrong 
contracts the understanding, while it corrupts 
the heart. Subtlety is soon mistaken for wisdom, 
and impunity for virtue. If there be any in- 
stances upon record, as some there are un- 
doubtedly, of genius and morality united ina 
lawyer, they are distinguished by their singula- 
rity, and operate as exceptions’.” 

‘“¢ Whenever the question shall be seriously 
agitated, I will endeavour (and if I live, will ase 
suredly attempt it,) to convince the English 
nation, by arguments to my understanding un- 
answerable, that they ought to insist upon a 
triennial, and banish the idea of an annual 
parliament. * * * * * Iam convinced that, 
if shortening the duration of parliaments (which 
in effect is keeping the representative under the 
rod of the constituent) be not made the basis 
of our new parliamentary jurisprudence, other 
checks or improvements signify nothing*.”’ 

«« When the Septennial Act passed, the legis- 
lature did what, apparently and. palpably, they 


* Vol. Il.-p. 411, 412 of the present edition. 
* Id. p. 445. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *lik 


had no power to do; but they did more than 
people in general were aware of; they, in effect 
disfranchised the whole kingdom for four years’.’’ 

*¢ It would be to no purpose at present to re- 
new a discussion of the merits of the Stamp Act, 
though I am convinced that even the people 
who were most clamorous against it, either never 
understood, or wilfully misrepresented every part 
of it. But it is truly astonishing that a great 
number of people should have so little foreseen 
the inevitable consequence of repealing it. * * 
** * * * * * There was indeed one man, [G. 
Grenville ]whowisely foresaw every circumstance 
which has since happened, and who, with a pa- 
triot’s spirit, opposed himself to the torrent. He 
told us, that, if we thought the loss of out- 
standing debts, and of our American trade, a 
mischief of the first magnitude, such an injudi- 
cious compliance with the terms dictated by the 
colonies, was ‘the way to make it sure and una- 
voidable. It was ne moriare, mori. We see the 
prophecy verified in every particular, and if 
this great and good man was mistaken in any 
one instance, it was, perhaps, that he did not 
expect his predictions to be fulfilled so soon as 
they have been’.” 

** Jt is not many months since you gave me 


* Vol. IT. p. 447. * Id. p. 512, 513, 
6 


*112 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


an opportunity of demonstrating to the nation, as 
far as rational inference and probability could 
extend, that the hopes which some men seemed 
to entertain, or to profess at least, with regard 
to America, were without a shadow of founda- 
tion. * * * * * * * But whatever were their 
views or expectations, whether it was the mere 
enmity of party, or the real persuasion that they 
had but a little time to live in office, every cir- 
cumstance that I then foretold is confirmed by 
experience. * * * * * * * We find ourselves 
at last reduced to the dreadful alternative of 
either making war upon our colonies, or of suf- 
fering them to erect themselves into independent 
states. Itis not that I hesitate now upon the 
choice we are to make. Every thing must be 
hazarded. But what infamy, what punishment 
do those men deserve, whose folly or whose trea- 
chery hath reduced us to this state, in which 
we cannot give up the cause without a certainty 
of ruin, nor maintain it without such a struggle 
as must shake the empire. * * * * * * * Mr. 
Conway since last December has, in the face of 
the House of Commons, defended the resistance 
of the colonies upon what he called revolution 
principles. * * * * * * * Ifwe look for their 
motives, we shall find them such as weak and 
interested men usually act upon. They were 


weak enough to hope that the crisis of Great 
7 ; 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *113 


Britain and America would be reserved for their 
successors in office, and they were determined to 
hazard even the ruin of their country, rather 
than furnish the man [G. Grenville] whom they 
feared and hated, with the melancholy triumph 
of having truly foretold the consequences of 
their own misconduct. But this, such as it is, 
‘the triumph of a heart that bleeds at every vein, 
they cannot deprive him of. They dreaded the 
acknowledgment of his superiority over them, 
and the loss of their own authority and credit, 
more than the rebellion of near half the empire 
against the supreme legislature. * * * * * * * 
It is impossible to conceal from ourselves, that 
we are at this moment on the brink of a dread- 
ful precipice ; the question is whether we shall 
submit to be guided by the hand which hath 
driven us:to it, or whether we shall follow the 
patriot voice [G. Grenville’s] which has not 
ceased to warn us of our dangers, and which 
would still declare the way to safety and to ho- 
nour’.” 

‘‘ Whether it be matter of honour or reproach, 
it is at least a singular circumstance, that who- 
ever is hardy enough to maintain the cause of 
Great Britain, against subjects who disown her 
authority, or to raise his voice in defence of the 
laws and constitution, is immediately pointed 


* Miscellaneous Letters, No. xxix. Vol. III. p. 73. 


VOL. I. HH 


#114 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


out to the public for Mr. Grenville’s friend * * 
* * * * * * Tt is true he professes doctrines 
which would be treason in America, but in En- 
gland at least he has the laws on his side, and 
if it be a crime to support the supremacy of the 
British legislature, the Sovereign, the Lords and 
Commons are as guilty as he is. * * * * * * * 
If the pretensions of the colonies had not been 
abetted by something worse than a faction 
here the stamp act would have executed itself: 
Uivery clause of it was so full and explicit that 
it wanted no further instruction; nor was it of 
that nature that required a military hand to 
carry it into execution. For the truth of this 
I am ready to appeal even to the colonies 
themselves. * * * * * * * * * Your corres- 
pondent [who had answered Miscell. Lett. xxix. ] 
confesses that Mr. Grenville is still respectable ; 
yet he warns the friends of that gentleman not 
to provoke him, lest he should tell them what 
they may not like to hear. ‘These are but words. 
He means as little when he commends as when 
he condescends to applaud. Let us meet upon 
the fair ground of truth, and if he finds one 
vulnerable part in Mr. Grenville’s character, let 
him fix his poisoned arrow there’.”’ 

*< If there be any thing improper in this ad- 
dress, [a letter addressed to G. Grenville] the 


* Miscellaneous Letters, No, xxx1. Vol, III. p. 83. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *115 


singularity of your present situation will, I hope, 
excuse it. Your conduct attracts the attention, 
because it is highly interesting to the welfare of 
the public, and a private man who only expresses 
what thousands think, cannot well be accused 
sof, flattery. or, detraction..*.* .* *.* * * This 
letter, I doubt not, will be attributed to some 
party friend, by men who expect no applause 
but from their dependents. But you, Sir, have 
the testimony of your enemies in your favour. 
After years of opposition, we see them revert 
to those very measures with violence, with ha- 
zard and disgrace, which in the first instance 
might have been. conducted with ease, with 
dignity and moderation. 

While parliament preserves its constitutional 
authority, you will preserve yours. As long as 
there is a real representation of the people, you 
will be heard in that great assembly with atten- 
tion, deference and respect; and if fatally for 
England the designs of -the present ministry 
should at last succeed, you will have the conso- 
lation to reflect that your voice was heard, until 
the voice of truth and reason was drowned in 
the din of arms; and that your influence in par- 
liament was irresistible, until every question 
was decided by the sword’.” 

How far the same principles were supported 


* Miscellaneous Letters, No. xin, Vol. IIL. p, 192, 
H 2 


*116 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


by the same writer under the signature of Juntus, 
the reader will find in Vol. I. p. 54. and Vol. IT. 
p- 350. and it is not necessary to copy farther. 
Mr. Malone, in his preface to a well-known 
work of Mr. Hamilton, entitled Parliamentary 
Logic', offers a variety of remarks in disproof 
that this gentleman was the writer of the letters, 
several of which are possessed of sufficient 
force, though few persons will perhaps agree 
with him in believing that if Hamilton had 
written them, he would have written them 
better. The following are his chief arguments : 
‘¢ Now (not to insist on his own solemn as- 
severation near the time of his death, that he was 
not the author of Junrus*) Mr. Hamilton was so 
far from being an ardent party man, that during 
the long period above mentioned [from Jam. 
1769 to Jan. 1772] he never closely connected 
himself with any party. * * * * Notwithstand: 
ing his extreme love of political discussion, he 
never, it is believed, was heard to speak of any 
administration or any opposition with vehemence. 
either of censure or of praise; a character so 
opposite to the fervent and sometimes coarse 
acrimony of Junius, that this consideration 
alone is sufficient to settle the point, as far as 


* P. xxix. et seq. 
7 « Tt has been said that he at the same time declared that 
he knew who was the author; but unquestionably he never 
made any such deelaration,’’? MALONE, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *117 


relates to our author, for ever. * * * * On the 
question—who was the author ?—he was as free 
to talk as any other person, and often did ex- 
press his opinion concerning it to the writer of 
this short memoir ; an opjnion nearly coinciding 
with that of those persons who appear to have 
had the best means of information on the subject, 
In a conversation on this much agitated point, 
he once said to an intimate friend, in a tone 
between seriousness and _ pleasantry,—‘ You 
-know, H * * * * * * * *n, I could have written 
better papers than those of Junius :’ and so the 
gentleman whom he addressed, who was himself 
distinguished for his rhetorical powers, and a 
yery competent judge, as well as many other 
persons, thought. 

_ It may be added, that his style of eompo- 
sition was entirely different from that of this 
writer. * * * * ‘That he had none of that 
minute commissarial knowledge of petty military 
matters, which is displayed in some of the 
earlier papers of Junius. 

«¢ And finally it may be observed, that the 
figures and allusions of Junius are often of so 
different a race from those which our author 
[Hamilton] would have used, that he never 
spoke of some of them without the strongest 
disapprobation ; and particularly when a friend, 
for the purpose of drawing him out, affected to 
think him the writer of these papers; and ban- 


*118 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


tering him on the subject, taxed him with that 
passage in which a nobleman, then in a high 
office, is said to have ‘travelled through every 
sign in the political zodiac, from the scorPIoN, 
in which he stung Lord Chatham, to the hopes of 
a VIRGIN,’ &c. as if this imagery were much in his 
style,—Mr: Hamilton with great vehemence ex- 
claimed, ¢ had I written such a sentence as that, 
I should have thought I had forfeited all pre- 
tensions to good taste in composition for ever!’ ” 

Mr. Malone further observes, that Hamilton 
filled the office of chancellor of the exchequer in 
Ireland, from September 1763 to April 1784, 
during the very period in which all the letters 
of Junius appeared before the public; and it 
will not very readily be credited by any one that 
this is likely to have been the exact quarter from 
which the writer of the letters in question fulmi- 
nated his severe criminations against govern- 
ment. The subject moreover of parliamentary 
reform, for which Jun1us was so zealous an ad- 
vocate, Mr. Malone expressly tells us was consi- 
dered by Hamilton to be “ of so dangerous a 
tendency, that he once said to a friend now 
living, that he would sooner suffer his right hand 
to be cut off, than vote for it.” 

The only reason indeed that appears for these 
Jetters having ever been attributed to Hamil- 
ton is, that on a certain morning he told the 
Duke of Richmond, as has been already hinted 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *119 


at", the substance of a letter of Junrus which he 
pretended to have just read in the Public Adver- 
tiser ; but which, on consulting the Public Ad- 
vertiser, was found not to appear there, an apo- 
logy instead of it being offered for its post- 
ponement till the next day, when the letter thus 
previously adverted to by Hamilton did actually 
make its appearance. That Hamilton, therefore, 
had a knowledge of the existence and purport 
of this letter is unquestionable ; but without con- 
ceiving him the author of it, it is easy to account 
for the fact, by supposing him (as we have sup- 
posed already) to have had it read to him by his 
friend Woodfall,antecedently to its being printed. 
Another character that has been started as a 
claimant to the Letters of Junius, is the late Dr. 
Butler, bishop of Hereford, formerly secretary 
to the Right Hon. Bilson Legge, chancellor of 
the exchequer, and afterwards Lord Stawell. 
Dr. Butler was a man of some talents, and was 
occasionally a political writer, and felt no small 
disgust and mortification upon his patron’s dis- 
missal from office. But he never discovered those 
talents that could in any respect put him upon 
an equality with Junius. He was moreover a 
man. of mild disposition, and in no respect cele- 
brated for political courage. ‘To which general re- 
marks, incontravention of this gentleman’sclaim, 


* See Preliminary Essay, p. *11. 


*120 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


the editor begs leave to subjoin the following ex- 
tract of a letter upon the subject, addressed by a 
friend of Dr. Butler’s, and who himself took an 
active part in the politics of the times, toa high 
official character of the present day, and which 
he has been allowed the liberty of copying :— 

«¢ Mr. Wilkes shewed me the letters he re- 
ceived privately from Junius: parts of one of 
these were printed in the public papers at the 
request of the Bill of Rights. The autograph 
was remarkable—it was firm and precise, and did 
not appear to me at all disguised. Mr. Wilkes 
had been intimate with Bishop Butler when 
quartered as colonel of the militia at Winchester; 
and from some very curious concurrent circum- 
stances, he had strong reasons for considering 
that the Bishop was the author, and I had some 
reasons for conjecturing the same. Yet I must 
confess, that if these suspicions were stronger 
and more confirmed, yet I think I should re- 
quire more substantial proofs ; and my reasons 
are, that from all I was ever able to learn of the 
Bishop’s personal character, he was incapable of 
discovering, or feeling those rancorous senti- 
ments, so unbecoming his character as a christian, 
and his station as a prelate, expressed towards 
the Duke of Grafton, Lord North, Sir William 
Draper, and others—more especially the King. 
Nor do I think that his being the sole depository 
of his own secret, which, as Junius says, would 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *¥2) 


be, and I fancy was, buried in everlasting obli- 
vion, when he was entombed ; would have en- 
couraged him to have used such opprobrious 
language.” 

The pretensions of the Rev. Philip Rosen- 
hagen, though adverted to in a preceding edi- 
tion of these letters, are hardly worth noticing. 
He was at one time chaplain to the sth regiment 
of foot; and is said to have endeavoured to im- 
pose upon Lord North with a story of his having 
been the author of the letters in order to induce 
his Lordship to settle a pension upon him. It is 
sufficient to observe, that Mr. Rosenhagen, who 
was a school-fellow of Mr. H. 8S. Woodfall, con- 
tinued on terms of acquaintance with him in 
subsequent life ; and occasionally wrote for the 
Public Advertiser : but was repeatedly declared 
by Mr. Woodfall, who must have been a compe- 
tent evidence as to the fact, not to be the 
author of Junius’s letters. A private letter of 
Rosenhagen’s to Mr. Woodfall is still in the 
possession of his son, and nothing can be more 
different from each other than this autograph 
and that of Junius. 

It has been said in an American periodical 
work entitled “ The Wilmington Mirror,” that 
General Lee in confidence communicated to a 
friend the important secret that he was the 
author of these celebrated letters ; but, whether 
Lee ever made such a communication or not, 


*1 29 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


nothing is more palpable than that he did not 
write them—since it is a notorious fact, that dur- 
ing the whole, or nearly the whole of the period 
in which they successively appeared, this officer 
was on the continent of Europe, travelling from 
place to place, and occupying the whole of his 
time in very different pursuits. 

The friend to whom this communication is 
said to have been made, is a Mr. T. Rodney, who 
declares as follows in a communication inserted 
in the above-mentioned American periodical 
work. . . 
“ In the fall of 1773, not long after General 
Lee had arrived in America, I had the pleasure 
of spending an afternoon in his company, when 
there was no other person present. Our con- 
versation chiefly turned on politics, and was 
mutually free and open. Among other things, 
the Letters of Junius were mentioned, and 
General Lee asked me, who was conjectured to 
be the author of these letters. I replied, our 
conjectures here generally followed those started — 
in England; but for myself, I concluded, from 
the spirit, style, patriotism, and political in- 
formation which they displayed, that Lord 
Chatham was the author; and yet there were 
some sentiments there that indicated his not 
being the author. General Lee immediately 
replied, with considerable animation, affirming, | 
that to his certain knowledge, Lord Chatham 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *123 


was not the author; neither did he know who 
the author was, any more than Idid; that there 
was not a man in the world, no, not even 
Woodfall, the publisher, that knew who the 
author was; that the secret rested solely with 
himself, and for ever would remain with him. 

“ Feeling, in some degree, surprised at this 
unexpected declaration, after pausing a little, 
I replied : « No, General Lee, if you certainly 
know what you have affirmed, it can no longer 
reimain solely with him; for, certainly, no one 
could know what you have affirmed but the 
author himself” 

** Recollecting himself, he replied: ¢ I have 
unguardedly committed myself, and it would be 
but folly to deny to you that I am the author ; 
but I must request that you will not reveal it 
during my life ; for it never was, nor never will 
be revealed by me to any other.’ He then 
proceeded to mention several circumstances to 
verify his being the author ; and, among them, 
that of his going over to the Continent, and ab- 
senting himself from England most of the time 
in which these Letters were first published in 
London, &c. &c. This he thought necessary, 
lest, by some accident, the author should be- 
come known, or at least suspected, which might 
have been his ruin, -had he been known to the 
court of London, &c.” 


#124 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


The account from which we have made this 
extract was reprinted in the St. James’s Chro- 
nicle for April 16, 1803, which the editor pre-~ 
faces by observing, Of Mr. Rodney, or of the 
degree of credit that may reasonably be attach- 
ed to his declaration, we know nothing ; but 
the subject is so curious, that we think our 
readers will not be averse from having their at- 
tention once more drawn to it.” 

The public do not in any. degree appear to 
have been influenced either by General Lee’s 
pretended assertion, or Mr. Rodney’s positive 
declaration: and this claim had totally died 
away like the rest, when in 1807 it was revived 
by Dr. Girdlestone of Yarmouth, Norfolk, who 
endeavoured to establish General Lee’s preten- 
sions by a comparison of Rodney’s statement 
with Mr. Langworthy’s memoirs of the gene- 
ral’s life, in a pamphlet published anonymously, 
under the title of “ Reasons for rejecting the 
presumptive evidence of Mr. Almon, ‘that Mr. 
Hugh Boyd was the writer of Junius, with 
passages selected to prove the real author of the 
Letters of Junius.” And in consequence of this 
revival of Mr. Lee’s claim, the editor feels him- 
self called upon to examine its foundation some- 
what more in detail. 

The passages selected are in no respect con- 
vincing to his mind, and do not appear to have 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *195 


been so to that of the public. But without 
entering upon so disputable a question as that 
of a superiority of literary taste, it will be suffi- 
cient to remark that the great distance of Ge- 
neral Lee from England during the period in 
which the Letters of Junius were published, 
together with the different line of politics which 
he pursued, render it impossible that Lée could 
have been the author of these letters. 

The correspondence of General Lee previous 
to his quitting England for America, in August, 
1773, as published by Mr. Langworthy in the 
memoirs of his life, and adverted to in Dr. Gir- 
dlestone’s pamphlet, extend through a period of 
about thirteen months, from Dec. 1, 1766, to 
Jan. 19, 1768, and give us the following dates. 


1766, Dec. 1. To the King of Poland, from 
London. 
25. The Prince of Poland, the 
same. 
1767, May 1. Mr. Coleman, from Warsaw. 
2. Mrs. Macauley’, the same. 
4, Louisa C. the same. 
4, Lord Thanet, the same. 
Aug. 16. King of Poland, Kamineck. 
1768, Jan. 19. Sir C. Davers, Dijon. 


* The letter was not addressed to Mrs. Macauley, but to 
Lady Blake, Edit. of the present work, 


#126 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


The dates of the letters written by Junius 
under his occasional signatures are as follows ; 


1767, April 28. 
May 28. 


June 
Aug. 


Sept. 16. 
Oct. 12. 


no bs 
oS 


Poplicola. 

The same in answer to a 
letter of Sir William Dra- 
per’s, of May 21. 

Anti-Sejanus, Jun. 

A Faithful Monitor, on the 
subject of Lord ‘Towns- 
hend’s appointment to be 
Lord Lieut. of Ireland, 
which took place the pre- 
ceding Aug. 12. 

Correggio. 

Moderator in answer to a 
letter of October 6. 

Grand Council. 

No signature, in answer to a 
letter of Oct. 27. 

Y. Z. on the King’s speech, 
on opening the parliament 
Nov. 24, 1767: the re- 
ceipt of which will be 
found acknowledged by 
the printer in his usual 
method. among the “ an- 
swers to correspondents,” 
Noy. 80, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *1 27 


19. No signature, on the subject 
of Amefican politics. 
22. Downright. 

It is only necessary for the reader to com- 
pare these two lists of dates, and places; as for 
example, London, and Warsaw, or Kamineck, 
during the two months of May and August, 
and to observe the rapidity with which the 
Letters of Junrus were furnished, in answer to 
the different subjects discussed, to obtain a full 
proof that the latter list of letters could not 
have been written by the author of the former. 

These remarks however relate only to the 
year 1767. Let us see how the account stands 
for 1769, being the year in which the author 
first appeared before the public under his favour- 
ite signature (with the single exception of Mis- 
cellaneous Letter, No. tu.) It is difficult to ascer- 
tain exactly at what places General Lee was re- 
siding during this period. Langworthy’s memoirs 
abound. with erroneous dates, which are not ma- 
terial however to the present question. ‘The 
only serviceable hint that can be collected from 
them is, that he was rambling somewhere or 
other abroad, and “could never stay long in 
one place :” to which the editor adds, ‘¢ that we 
can collect nothing material relative to the ad- 
ventures of his travels, as his memorandum- 
books only mention the names of the towns and 

5 


2193 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


cities through which he passed. That he was a 
most rapid and very active traveller is certain,’ 
p- 8. The account furnished by Rodney con- 
firms this statement, by telling us, “ He then 
proceeded to mention several circumstances to 
verify his being the author ; and, among them, 
that of his going over to the Continent, and ab- 
senting himself from England most of the time 
in which these letters were first published in 
London, &c. &c. This he thought necessary, 
lest, by some accident, the author should be- 
come known, or, at least, suspected, which might 
have been his ruin, had he been known to the 
Court of London, &c.’’ 

It is clear, therefore, that during the whole 
or the greater part of 1769, General Lee was 
rambling over the continent; and of course had 
no possibility of keeping up a very close cor- 
respondence witli any person athome. Yet the 
following table of the Letters of Junius, written 
either under his favourite or occasional signa- 
tures, or privately to Mr. Woodfall, will shew 
that in the course of this very year, the author 
maintained not less than fifty-four communica- 
tions with Mr. Woodfall: that not a single month 
passed without one or more act of intercourse : 
that some of them had not less than seven, and 
many of them not less than six, at times direct- 
ed to events that had occurred only a few days 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *129 


antecedently: that the two most distant com- 
munications were not more than three weeks 
apart, that several of them were daily, and the 


greater number of them not more than a week 
from each other. 


1769. 

January 21. | July 8. | October 5. 
February 7. 15. 13. 
- 21.) — 17.| —— 17. 
March 3. | —— 19.; —— 19. 
18. | —— 21. 20. 

April 7. 29. | November 8. 
10. | August 1 12, 

aoe 12. 6.| ———— 14. 
a 20. | ——— 8.) ——— 15. 
a 21.; ——— _ 14.| ———— 16. 
— 24.) ——— 16.| ———— 25. 
27. 22.| ———— 25. 

May 6. | September 4. — 29. 
30. | ——— 7.| December 2. 

June 6.) ———- 8. | —— 12. 
10. | ———— 10.| ———— 19. 

eee 12.| ——— 19.} ————-_ 19. 
—- 22. | ————— 25. — 26. 


There is but one conclusion that can be 
drawn from a perusal of this table: which is, 
that the writer of the letters of which it forms 
a diary, could not have been travelling over the 
continent during the year 1769 to which it is 
limited, and consequently that General Lees 
who was travelling over the continent, and who 

VOL, Ie I 


*130 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


appears to have been chiefly in remote nuPsiene 
parts of it could not be Junius. 

The editor has observed that it is cial 
obvious General Lee could not havebeen Junius, 
from the different line of politics professed by 
the two characters ; and not merely professed. 
but fought for to his own outlawry by the former. 
Junius, it has been already remarked, was a warm 
and determined friend to Mr. George Grenville : 
a zealous advocate for the stamp act, Mr. Gren- 
ville’s most celebrated measure ; and a decided 
upholder of the power of the British parliament 
to legislate for America, in the same manner as 
for any county in England. And it was because 
Mr. Lee was an inveterate oppugner of these 
doctrines, and was determined to fight against 
them, and even against his native country, if 
she insisted upon them, that he fled to. the 
United States, took a lead in their armies, and 
powertully contributed to their independence. 
The ensuing extracts taken from his letters. 
contained in Mr. Langworthy’s Memoirs, give 
his own opinions in his own words; and they 
may be compared with those of Junrus that fol- 
low the preceding extracts from Mr. Burke. > ® 

“ You tell me the Americans are the most 
merciful people on the face of the earth : I think 
so too; and the strongest instance of it is, that 


r 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY, *13) 


“they did not long ago hang up you, and every 
advocate for the stamp act*.”? 

«¢ As to the rest who form what is called the 
opposition, they are so odious or contemptible, 
that the favourite himself is preferable to them ; 
such as GrenvitLE, Bedford, Newcastle, and 
their associates. ‘Temple is one of the most 
ridiculous order of coxcombs’.” 

«A formidable opposition is expected ; but 
the heads are too odious to the nation in general, 
in my opinion, to carry their point. Such as 
Bedford, Sandwich, G. GrenviLie, and, with 
submission, your friend Mansfield}. 

*¢ We have had twenty different accounts of 
your arrival at Boston, which have been re- 
gularly contradicted the next morning ; but as 
I now find it certain that you are arrived, I shall 
not delay a single instant addressing myself to 
you. It is a duty I owe to the friendship I have 
jong and sincerely professed for you ; a friend. 
ship to which you have the strongest claims 
from the first moment of our acquaintance ; 
there is no man from whom I have received so 
many testimonies of esteem and affection ; there 
is no man whose esteem and affection could in 
my opinion have done me greater honour. * * 


* Memoirs, p. 54, ina letter to W. H. Drayton, a member 
of congress. 
* Tb. p. 294. 3 Ib. p. 297. 
r2 


#132 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


* * * # * * #* 


I shall not trouble yor: 
with my opinion of the right of taxing America 
without her own consent, as I am afraid from 
what I have seen of your speeches, that you 
have already formed your creed on this article ; 
but I will boldly affirm, had this right been es- 
tablished by a thousand statutes, had America 
admitted it from time immemorial, it would be 
the duty of every good Englishman to exert his 
utmost to divest parliament of this right, as it 
must inevitably work the subversion of the 
Whole tempire; i) *?,*y *c */o"/) Sa 
these principles, I say, Sir, every good English+ 
man, abstracted of all regard for America, must 
oppose her being taxed by the British parlia- 
ment ; for my own part I am convinced that no 
argument (not totally abhorrent from the spirit 
of liberty, and the British constitution,) can be 
produced in support of this right. * * * * 
» * * * Thave now, Sir, only to entreat, 
that whatever measure you pursue, whether those 
which your real friends(myself amongst the rest) 
would wish, or unfortunately those which our ace 
cursed misrulers shall dictate, you will still be- 
lieve me to be personally, with the greatest sin- 
cerity and affection, yours, &c. C. Lee’.” 

It would be waste of time to pursue the 


* Letter to persuade General Burgoyne to join the Ameri- 
cans. Memoirs, p, 323—330. See Junius’s opinion of 
General Burgoyne, Vol. II. p. 58. 


- 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *133 


claim of General Lee any further: though a 
multitude of similar proofs to the same effect 
might be offered if necessary. 

Another character to whom these letters 
have been ascribed is Mr. Wilkes; but that he 
is not the author of them must be clear to every 
one who will merely give a glance at either the 
public or the private letters. Wilkes could not 
have abused himself in the manner he is occa- 
sionally abused in the former; ‘nor would he 
have said in the latter (since there was no neces- 
sity for his so saying) “ I have been out of town 
for three weeks'’’ at a time when he was closely 
confined in the King’s Bench. 

Of ali the pretenders however to the honour 
of having written the letters of Juntus, Hugh 
Macauley Boyd has been brought forward with 
the most confidence: yet of all of them there 
is not one whose claims are so easily and com- 
pletely refuted. It is nevertheless necessary, from 
the assurance with which they have been urged, 
to examine them with some degree of detail. 

Hugh Macauley Boyd was an Irishman of 
a respectable family, who was educated for the 
bar, which he deserted, at an early age, for poli- 


* Private Letters, No. 11. This letter is dated Nov. 8, 
1769. Wilkes entered the King’s Bench prison April 27, 
1768, and was liberated April 18, 1770.—See further the 
private correspondence between Junius and Mr, Wilkes. 


*134 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


tics, and an unsettled life, that perpetually 
involved him in pecuniary. distresses ; and who 
is known as the author of “The Freeholder,’’ 
which he wrote at Belfast, in the beginning of 
1776; ‘ The Whig,” consisting of a series of 
revolutionary papers which he published in the 
London Courant, between November, 1779, and 
March, 1780, and the ‘“ Indian Observer,” a 
miscellany of periodical essays published at Ma- 
dras in 1793". In his public conversation he 
was an enthusiastic admirer of the style and 
principles of Junius; and in his political effu- 
sions he perpetually strove to imitate his man- 
ner; and, in many instances, copied his ‘sen- 
tences verbally. On this last account the three 
advocates for his fame, Mr. Almon who has in- 
troduced him into his Biographical Anecdotes, 
Mr. Campbell who has published a life of him, 
and prefixed it to a new edition of ‘ Boyd’s 
Works,” and Mr. George Chalmers, who has 
entered largely into the subject, in his “ Ap- 
pendix to the Supplemental Apology,” have 
strenuously contended that Boyd and Junius 
were the same person ; an opinion which, they 


* He is also said by his friends to have written various letters 
in the Public Advertiser, in the years 1769, 1770, 1771, 
and afterwards in 1779; the former under a questionable 
signature, the latter under that of Democrates or Demo- 
eraticus, 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *135 


think, is rendered decisive from the following 
anecdote, as given in the words of Mr. Chalmers 
himself. 

*« Boyd was in the habit of frequenting the 
shop of Almon, who detected him, as the writer 
of Junrus, as early as the autumn of 1769. At 
a meeting of the booksellers and printers, H. S. 
Woodfall read a letter of Junrus, which he had 
just received, because it contained a passage, 
that related to the business of the meeting. Al- 
mon had thereby an opportunity of seeing the 
hand-writing of the manuscript, without dis- 
elosing his thoughts of the discovery. The 
next time that Boyd called on him in Piccadilly, 
Almon said to him, ‘ I have seen a part of one 
of Junius’s Letters, in manuscript, which I be- 
lieve is your hand-writing.”’ Boyd imstantly 
changed colour; and after a short pause, he 
said, ‘the similitude of hand-writing is not a 
conclusive fact,’ [proof.] Now, Almon does 
not deliver these intimations, as mere opinions ; 
but, he speaks, like a witness, to facts, which 
he knows to be true. It is a fact, then, that 
Almon taxed Boyd with being the writer of 
Juntus’s Letters; that Boyd thereupon changed 
colour ; and that he only turned off the impu- 
tation, by the obvious remark, that comparison 
of hand-writing is not decisive evidence, to prove 
the writer. Add to this testimony, that Boyd 


*136 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


was, by nature, confident, and, by habit, aman 
of the town, a sort of character, who is not apt 
to blush. From the epoch of this detection, it 
was the practice of Almon, when he was asked 
who was the writer of Junius, to say, ‘ that he: 
suspected Junrus was a broken gentleman, 
without a guinea in his pocket.’ 

Mr. Almon’s own words in relating this 
anecdote areas follows: “ The moment I saw 
the hand-writing I had a strong suspicion that it 
was Mr. Boyd’s, whose hand-writing I knew,. 
having received several letters from him concern=. 
ing books.’ And he afterwards adds in reter-, 
ence to Boyd’s reply to him, “though these words 
do not acknowledge the truth of the suspicion, 
they do not, however, positively deny it .” 

This reply, that ‘the similitude of hand. 
writing is not a conclusive proof,’ is called by 
Mr, Chalmers an “ obvious remark ;’’ he might 
have added that the remark is just as general as 
it is obvious, and consequently that it admits of 
no particular deduction. It neither denies nor 
affirms, but leaves the question, or rather the 
Suspicion, precisely where it was at first. 

But, say these gentlemen, it was preceded by | 
a change of colour: yet whether this change. 
were to a flush or a paleness, or any other hue: 


* Letter from J, Almon to L, D, Campbell, Esq. Dec. 10, 
1798. : 


- 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *137 


does not appear. Let it be taken for grant- 
ed, however, that they mean Macauley Boyd 
blushed, and consequently that he exhibited, on 
the spur of* the moment, a secret sense of 
shame: yet what had that man to be ashamed 
of, upon a detection of this kind, who openly 
gloried in the principles of Junius, who had 
carried his own avowed sentiments immeasur- 
ably farther, who was for ever publicly imi- 
tating his style and copying his phrases ?—this 
man, who was “by nature confident, and by: 
habit aman of the town, a sort of character who 
is not apt to blush,” nothing surely could have 
given him a higher delight than to have been 
suspected to have been Juntus himself; nothing: 
could more agreeably have flattered his vanity. 
His cheeks glowed with a flush of rapture upon 
the supposed detection, and he could not even 
consent to dissipate the fond illusion by telling 
the whole truth. Shame he could not feel; and 
as to the passion of fear it must not be mentioned 
for a moment: fear would have made him turn 
pale, but not have blushed. 

Yet these gentlemen, in the ardour of their. 
pursuit, prove too much for their own cause ; 
since we at length find that, after all, there 
was NO SIMILITUDE of hand-writing whatever, or 
at least none that could answer their purpose. 

7 


*138 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


The letter shewn by Woodfall, Almon asserted 
to be in the common hand-writing of Boyd, the 
hand-writing employed by him in his common 
and avowed transactions, and that he knew it 
to be Boyd’s on this very account. Now it so 
happened that Mr. Woodfall was also well ac- 

quainted, in consequence of a similar corres-— 
pondence, with the hand-writing of Mr. Boyd; 
and Woodfall, whose veracity could not be 
questioned, and who had far better opportuni- 
ties of comparing the autographs together, de- 
nied that the letters of Juntus were written in 
the hand-writing of Boyd ; adding, that Almon, 
from the casual glance he had obtained, had 
conjectured erroneously. The difficulty was felt 
and acknowledged; and the following inge- 
nious expedient was devised to get rid of it. 
It was contended that Boyd had, about the 
period of Juntus’s first appearance, accustomed 
himself to what he used to call, and his com- 
mentators and biographers call after him, a 
disguised hand; and that he uniformly em- 
ployed this disguised hand in writing these let- 
ters, in order to prevent detection. And this 
ingenious discovery was afterwards brought for- 
ward as an evidence of Boyd’s good sense and 
discretion, and an additional demonstration that 
he was the actual writer of these letters, “It 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. — *139 


would require strong proof indeed,” says Mr. 
Chalmers, ‘‘ to satisfy a reasonable mind, that 
the writer of Junius’s Letters would send them 
to the printer in his real hand-writing. It is im- 
possible to conceive, that such a man, as Boyd, 
would take such successful pains to disguise his 
hand-writing, if he had not had some design to 
deceive the world.” 

_ But this is to involve the argument in even 
more self-contradiction than ever. Junius, who- 
ever he was, wrote his letters, we are told, ina 
disguised hand-writing, in order to avoid detec- 
tion: the letter which Almon saw was not in a 
disguised hand-writing, but in the open and 
avowed hand-writing of Boyd, with which Al- 
mon was well acquainted, and which was made 
use of by Boyd 7m his common transactions and 
correspondence. Upon their own reasoning 
therefore, Boyd could not have been the author 
of the letters of Junius. 

But we are told, in reply to this second dif- 
ficulty, that the disguised hand-writing of Boyd, 
though different from his common hand-writing, 
was nevertheless not so different, but that those 
who were familiar with the latter could easily 
trace its origin, and identify it with the former : 
«I have already proved,” says Mr. Campbell, 
« that those who were acquainted with the one, 
would, upon inspection of the other, discover a 


*140 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


strong resemblance between them’. The re- 
sult of course is, that Almon penetrated the 
deception, although from a momentary glance, 
while Woodfall was incapable of doing so, not- 
withstanding his superior opportunities. Yet 
surely never was such a disguise either attempted 
or conceived before. The author wishes, we 
are told, to dissemble his hand-writing, in order 
to avoid detection ; and he devises a disguised 
hand-writing that can only be traced home, and 
identified by those who are acquainted with his 
common hand-writing; as if his common hand- 
writing could be identified by strangers as a 
matter of course. 

A disguised hand-writing that should conceal 
him from all who were ignorant of his real hand- 
writing, and expose him to all who were ac- 
quainted with it, was a truly brilliant invention, 
and altogether worthy of Mr. Boyd’s country 
and pretensions. Yet after all, we must not 
forget, that the hand-writing supposed to have 
been seen by Almon, if Boyd’s at all, was not the 
mystical, esoteric autography, the isea yeanmarc 
of the initiated, the disguised character that 
could be detected by nobody but those who 
were acquainted with his common writing, but - 
the common and undisguised character itself, 


* Life of Boyd, p. 157. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *141 


his general and avowed hand-writing employed 
on purposes of ordinary business, and which, 
says Mr. Almon, “I knew,” in consequence of 
*‘ having received several letters from him con- 
CERNING BOOKs.”’ 

But this is not the only disguise which Mr. 
Boyd must have had recourse to, and which he 
is admitted to have had recourse to, if he were 
the real author of these celebrated epistles. He 
must have disguised his wswal style even more 
than his usual hand-writing, and that by the very 
extraordinary assumption of an excellence which 
does not elsewhere appear to have belonged to 
him ; for it is not pretended by any of his advo- 
cates that the general merit of any one of his ac- 
knowledged productions is equal to the general 
merit of the letters of Junius; but merely as- 
serted that there is in his works a general imita- 
tion of the manner of the latter, together with 
an occasional copy of his very phrases and images, 
and that he has at times produced passages not 
inferior to some of the best that Junius ever 
wrote. ‘ Of all the characters,” says Mr. Chal- 
mers himself, “ who knew Boyd personally, I 
have only met with one gentleman who is of opi- 
nion that he was able to write Junius’s letters'.”” 
And Mr, Campbell has hence conceived it necess 


* Supplement, p. 94, 


#142 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


sary to offer two reasons for this palpable infe- 
riority of style. The one is, that all the acknow-. 
ledged productions of Boyd were written in 4 
hurry,—stans pede in uno—while the letters of 
Junius, contrary indeed to his otherwise uniform 
method, were possibly composed with consider- 
able pains, and corrected by numerous revisions. 
The other consists of a long extract from the 
Rambler, in denial of the position that ‘ be- 
cause a man has once written well, he can never 
under any circumstances write ill '.”” : 
Now the whole of this reasoning, if reasom- 
ing it may be called, is founded on gratuitous 
assumptions alone, and may be just as fairly ap- 
plied to any one else of the supposed writers of 
the Letters of Juntus as to Mr. Boyd. It is ad- 
mitted that he occasionally wrote passages of con- 
siderable merit; and it is admitted also, that he 
was an imitator of Juntus’s style, and a frequent 
copyist of his very words and images. But this 
last fact is against Boyd, instead of being in his 
favour, for the style of Junius is original and 
strictly his own, he is nowhere a copyist, and 
much less. copyist of himself. Boyd might cha- 
racteristically write, as he has done in his Free- 
holder, “ long enough have our eyes ached over 
this barren prospect, where no verdure of virtue~ 
guickens,”’ because Junius before him had writ-’ 


* Campbell’s Life of Boyd, p. 31. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *143 


ten, “I turn with pleasure from that barren 
waste in which no salutary plant takes root, no ver- 
dure quickens;” but Junius could not write so, 
because his genius was far too fertile for him to 
be driven to the dire necessity of copying from 
his own metaphors, and even had he done it in 
the present instance, he was too manly a writer 
to have introducedinto the simile the affected and 
contemptible alliteration of ‘‘ verdure of virtue.” 

If Boyd therefore wrote Junius, he must 
have been possessed of powers of which he has 
never otherwise given any evidence whatever, 
and must not only have disguised his hand, but 
as was well observed on a former occasion by the 
late Mr. W. Woodfall, have disguised his style at 
the same time; and this too “ in that most ex- 
traordinary way of writing above his own reach 
of literary talent,’’ judging of his abilities from 
every existing and acknowledged document. To 
conceive that a man of versatile genius might 
disguise his accustomed style of writing by adopt- 
ing some other style on a level with his own, is 
not difficult; but to conceive, under the cir- 
cumstances of his authenticated talents, that Boyd 
could disguise his avowed style by assuming that 
of Junius, is to conceive, though the difference 
between them was not altogether so extreme, 


that a sign-post painter n¥eht disguise himself 
° 


*144 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


under the style of Sir Joshua Reynolds, or a 
street-fiddler under that of Cramer. 

In effect Boyd appears to have been an en- 
thusiastic admirer of the writings of Junius, 
ambitious enough to try to imitate them, and 
vain enough to wish to be thought the author of 
them. By the deep interest he displayed in 
their behalf, he once or twice’ induced his wife 
to challenge him with having written them ;— 
when accidentally taxed by Almon with the same 
fact, he could not restrain his feelings, and his 
cheeks flushed with rapture beneath the suspi- 
cion; and when, upon a visit to Ireland in the 
year 1776, he wrote his address to the electors 
of Antrim, under the title of “‘ The Freeholder,” 
he so far succeeded by eulogizing Junius, by 
quoting his letters, and imitating his manner, as 
to induce a few other persons to entertain the 
same idea, and, what was of no small gratifica- 
tion to him, to acquire the honour of being ge- 
nerally denominated Junius the second. Yet, 
say his advocates, he never dared to avow that 
he was Junius, because Junius had declared in 
his Dedication, “I am the sole depositary of my 
own secret, and it shall perish with me.” 

Upon the whole, however, these visits to 


* Campbell’s Life of Boyd, p. 136. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *145 


Ireland are by no means favourable to Mr. Boyd’s 
claims; for the letters of Junius published in 
August, 1768, under the signatures of Atticus 
and Lucius, were written during one of them ; 
and from the rapidity with which they seized hold 
of the events of the moment, and replied to the 
numerous vindications and apologies of the go- 
vernment-party, must have been written (not at 
Belfast) but in London, or its immediate vicinity’. 


* Campbell, in his Life of Boyd, p. 22, relates the following 
anecdote of that gentleman, which occurred during the before- 
mentioned visit to Ireland in the summer of 1768. ‘ One even- 
ing while Mr. Flood sat at his own table, after dinner, enter- 
taining a large company, of which Mr. Boyd was one, he 
received an anonymous note, enclosing a letter on the state of 
parties, signed Sindercombe. 'The note contained a request that 
Mr. Flood would peruse the inclosed letter, and that if it met 
his approbation he would get it published, which he accord- 
ingly did in a paper of the following morning, and the letter 
produced a very strong sensation on the public mind.” Mr. 
Campbell proceeds to state that “ every endeavour was made, 
without effect, to discover the author: that Mrs. Boyd always 
thought that Sindercombe was her husband’s production, and. 
that many years afterwards she was satisfied that her conjecture 
was founded in fact.” If Mrs. Boyd were correct in her con- 
jecture, as to her husband being the author of the letter under 
this signature, it would, of itself, all but indisputably, prove that 
he was not the writer of the Letters of Junius; as on Dec: 26, 
1772, nearly twelve months after Junius had ceased to publish 
under this signature, and many months after he had declined 
to write under any other, Sindercombe addresses the following 
card to him : 


VOL, I. K “ For 


*146 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


While his visit to the same country in 1772 was 
chiefly in consequence of extreme pecuniary 
distress, which had oppressed him for the pre- 
ceding eighteen months or two years, and had 
driven him from the world, through a fear of 
being arrested; such were the opposite circum- 
stances of Junius, that the latter was refusing at 
this very moment, the moiety of the profits re- 
sulting from the sale of his own edition of his 
letters, repeatedly pressed upon him, and to 
_ which he was faizly entitled ; and, offering, from 
a competent purse, a pecuniary indemnification 
to Woodfall on account of his prosecution by the 
crown. 


There is, however, a note inserted in Juntus’s 


“ For the Public Advertiser. 

A CARD. Dec. 26, 17172.. 
« SinDERcoMBE laments that Juntus is silent at a sea- 
son that demands his utmost eloquence. Sindercombe has long 
waited with impatience for the completion of that promise, in 
which every friend to liberty is so deeply interested. Junius 
has long since pledged himself that the corrupt administration 
of Lord Townshend in Ireland ‘< shall not be lost to the public.’ 

He now calls upon Juntus to fulfil that promise.” __ 

That is Boyd, the writer of Junius, as Campbell contends, 
calls upon himself to fulfil a promise that he had not the small- 
est intention to perform, as may be seen by reference to Pri- 
vate Letter, No. 63. Sindercombe is a signature of considerable 
peculiarity, and never appeared in the Public Advertiser during 
any part of the time that the author, as Junrus, was a corre- 
spondent in that paper, which the reader will see was from 
April 28, 1767, to May 12,1772. epit. ~ 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *147 


own edition of these letters’, in relation to Lord 
Imham, and his baseness to a young and confi- 
dential friend, that has been conceived by these 
same gentlemen as almost decisive in favour of 
Mr. Boyd’s pretensions ; the young man here al- 
luded to, having been, as it should seem, one of 
Mrs. Boyd’s guardians; the two families to which 
the fact relates, from the peculiar motives they 
possessed for keeping it a secret, not being sup- 
posed to have divulged it to any one, and Mrs. 
Boyd herself having only communicated it in 
strict confidence to her husband. Yet the reader 
of the ensuing Private Letters, after witnessing 
the rapidity with which Junrus became informed 
of Mr. Garrick’s intimation to the King, and 
Swinney’s visit to Lord G. Sackville, will have 
no difficulty in conceiving that Junius, though 
totally unacquainted with Mr. Boyd or his family, 
might have easily acquired a knowledge of secrets 
far more securely locked up than the present. In 
reality, from Mr. Campbell’s own relation of this 
anecdote, it seems rather a matter of wonder that 
it should have been a secret to any one, than that 
it should have been known to Juntus at the time 
of his narrating it; for it appears that at least 
six persons were privy to the transaction almost 
from its first existence: the debauchee and the 


* See Vol. II. p. 402 of this work. 
K 2 


*148 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


prostitute, the injured bridegroom and his two 
brothers, and Mrs. Boyd as a part of the bride- 
eroom’s family’.—Yet, from these three slender 


* In point of fact, the anecdote here referred to, was publicly 
known and propagated not less than three years earlier than 
the first edition of the Letters of Junrus, in which it is intro- . 
duced as a note. For it appears in a letter in the Public Ad- 
vertiser of April 7, 1769, with the signature of Recens, written 
by this same Junius; from which the note in question is but a 
mere transcript, and given without altering a word. And yet 
Mr. Almon, in the preface to his own edition of Junivs’s let- 
ters, in which he has taken care to bestow abundant abuse on 
the Printer of the Public Advertiser and his brother, becatise 
they did not chuse to unfold to him all they were acquainted, 
with on this subject, has not scrupled to assert with his usual’ 
confidence, that “ this note certainly was not written till after 
Junius having finally ceased to write under that signature, col- 
lected his letters and published them together, with many ad- 
ditions; which was in the course of 1772.’ Pref. p. lvi. This; 
however, is only one specimen of Mr. Almon’s general accu- 
racy in the prosecution of. his favourite topic: yet it is useless 
to add more: the death of the writer has put him beyond all 
power of reply ; nor should even this have been noticed, but to 
shew how absurd were the pretensions of a man, so vain, so 
precipitate, and so incautious, to the character of an oracle 
upon this or any other subject; and how insolent it was in him 
to charge others with ignorance, incapacity and falsehood, who 
were possessed of better sources of information, and evinced a 
more punctilious adherence to truth. The letter itself is as’ 
follows: and it is copied for a comparison with the note. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 
MR. WOODFALL, 7 April, 1769. 
Tuere is a certain family in this country, on which nature 
seems to have entailed an hereditary baseness of disposition. 
As 


7 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *149 


facts,—Boyd’s imitation of the style of Junius, 
Almon’s suspicion concerning his hand-writing, 
and the anecdote of Lord Irnham, in conjunc- 


As far as their history has been known, the son has regularly 
improved upon the vices of his father, and has taken care to 
transmit them pure and undiminished into the bosom of his 
successor. In the senate, their abilities have confined them to 
those humble, sordid services, in which the scavengers of the 
ministry are usually employed. But in the memoirs of pri- 
vate treachery, they stand first and unrivalled. The following 
story will serve to illustrate the character of this respectable 
family, and to convince the world that the present possessor 
has as clear a title to the infamy of his ancestors, as he has to 
their estate. It deserves to be recorded for the curiosity of the 
fact, and should be given to the public as a warning to every 
honest member of society. 
The present Lord Irnham, who is now in the decline of life, 
lately cultivated the. acquaintance of a younger brother of a 
family, with which he had lived in some degree of intimacy 
and friendship. The young man had long been the dupe of a 
most unhappy attachment to a common prostitute. His friends 
‘and relations foresaw the consequences of this connexion, and 
‘did every thing that’ depended upon them to save him from 
«ruin. But he hada friend in Lord Irnham, whose advice ren- 
dered all their endeavours ineffectual. ‘This hoary letcher, not 
contented with the enjoyment of his friend’s mistress, was base 
‘enough to take advantage of the passions and folly of a young 
man, and persuaded him to marry her. He descended even 
‘to perform the office of father to the prostitute. He gave her 
to his friend, who was on the point of leaving the kingdom, 
and the next night lay with her himself. 

Whether the depravity of the human heart can produce any 
thing more base and detestable than this fact, must be left un- 


determined, until the son shall arrive at his father’s age and 
experience. RECENS. 


*150 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


tion with a few others of a nature merely colla- 
teral, and which, when separated from them, 
prove nothing whatever, these gentlemen under- 
take to “regard it as a moral certainty that 
Macaulay Boyd did write the Letters of Junius'.” 

The late Mr. Woodfall, indeed, made no 
scruple of denying the assertion peremptorily, 
admitting at the same time, that he was not ab- 
solutely certain who did write them. But this 
testimony, it seems, though from the printer 
of the letters themselves, and who, moreover, 
through the whole period of their publication, 
was in habits of confidential correspondence with 
the author, is of no consequence. Let us see 
by what curious process of logic this testimony 
is attempted to be invalidated: the reader will 
meet with it in Mr. Chalmers’s pamphlet, who 
thus observes and reasons: 

«© A few weeks after the publication of Al- 
mon’s anecdotes, in 1797, Mr. H. S. Woodfall, 
meeting the anecdote writer at Longman’s shop, 
complimented him on his entertaining book ; 
‘but said that he was mistaken, in supposing 
Mr. Boyd to have been the author of Junrus’s 
Letters; and then added, with an emphasis, that 
Mr. Boyd was not the author of them.’ To 
these emphatical observations Mr. Almon re- 


* See Chalmers’s Supplement, p. 94. Campbell’s Life, 173, 
277. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *15) 


plied, * that he had no doubt of Mr. Boyd’s be- 
ing the author of those letters; that as you, Mr. 
H. S. Woodfall, never knew who was the author, 
you cannot undertake to say who was not the 
author of those letters.’ Mr. Woodfall departed 
without making any reply. What reply could 
he make? It is absurd in any man, who does not 
know the true author of Junius’s letters; to say, 
that Macaulay Boyd was not the writer of them, 
in opposition to affirmative proofs. Yet, Mr. 
H. S. Woodfall afterwards told Mr. L. D. Camp- 
bell, that ‘ Mr. Boyd was not the writer of Ju- 
nius’s letters,’ without pretending, however, 
that he knew the true author.” 

“Now every one who knew Mr. H. 8. Wood- 
fall, knew him also to be a man of strict, unim- 
-peachable veracity ; a man who would not have 
ventured to have spoken decisively upon this or 
any other point, if he had not had very sufficient 
grounds. We are asked what reply he could have 
made? and are told that his negative assertion 
was absurd against the affirmative proofs oftered. 
These affirmative proofs have been already suffi- 
ciently noticed; our next business then is to 
state what reply Mr. Woodfall could have made 
if he had chosen, and perhaps would have made 
if he had been differently addressed, of the ab- 
surdity of which the reader shall determine when 
he has perused it: it shall be founded upon ze- 

6 


*152 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


gative arguments alone. Woodfall well knew the 
hand-writings of both Junius and Boyd, and was 
in possession of many copies of both; and know- 
ing them, he well knew they were different. He 
well knew that Junius was a man directly impli- 
cated in the circle of the court, and immediately 
ptivy to its most secret intrigues: and that 
Boyd was very differently situated, and that 
whatever information he collected was by cir- 
cuitous channels alone. Junius he knew to bea 
man of affluence, considerably superior to his 
own wants, refusing remunerations to which he 
was entitled, and offering reimbursements to 
those who suffered on his account :—Boyd to be 
labouring under great pecuniary difficulties, and 
ready to accept whatever was offered him; or, in 
the language of Mr. Almon, “ a broken gentle- 
man without a guinea in his pocket.” Junius he 
knew to be a man of considerably more than his 
own age, who from a long and matured experi- 
ence of the world, was entitled to read him lessons 
of moral and prudential philosophy ; Boyd to be 
at the same time a very young man‘, who had not 
even reached his majority, totally without plan, 
and almost without experience of any kind, who 


* Boyd was born in October 1746, and Junius’s first letter, 
under the signature of Poplicola, appeared in the Public Ad- 


vertiser April 28, 1767, when Boyd had not, as yet, attained his 
2st year. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *153 


im the prospect of divulging himself to Woodfall, 
could not possibly have written to him “ after a 
LONG experience of the world, 1 affirm before 
God I never knew a rogue who was not unhap- 
py.” Boyd he knew to be an imitator and co- 
pyist of Junius; Junius to be no imitator or 
copyist of any man, and least of all of himself. 
Junius he knew to be a decided mixt-monarch- 
ist, who opposed the ministry upon constitutional 
principles; Boyd to be a wild, random repub- 
lican, who opposed them upon. revolutionary 
views: Junius to be a writer who could not have 
adopted the signature of Democrates or Demo- 
craticus; Boyd a writer who could, and who, we 
are told did do so, in perfect uniformity with his 
political creed. Woodfall, it is true, did not pre- 
tend to know Juntus personally, but from his 
hand-writing, his style of composition, age, poli- 
tics, rank in life, and pecuniary affluence, he was 
perfectly assured that Juntus coup Nor BE Boyp. 

It was possible therefore for Mr. H. S. Wood- 
fall to have made some reply if he had chosen ; 
and it was possible also for him to have said, with- 
out absurdity, and in opposition to the affirmative 
proofs of his biographers, that Macaulay Boyd 
was not the writer of Junius’s Letters. 

A thousand other proofs, equally cogent and 
insurmountable, might be advanced, if neces- 


* Private Letters, No. 44, 


¥ 154 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


sary, against the pretensions of Mr. Boyd. 
Among these let the reader compare the letter 
of Junius, subscribed Vindex, March 6, 1771, 
Miscellaneous Letters, No. xc1, in which he 
publicly ridicules Mr. Laughlin Maclean, upon 
his defence of the ministry, in regard to the 
Falkland Islands. Mr. Laughlin Maclean is 
well known to have been the best and steadiest 
friend that Boyd ever possessed ; and a friend 
who adhered to him uninterruptedly from 1764 
to 1778', in which year Maclean commenced a 


* See Mr. Campbell’s Life of Boyd, p. 117, 125, 209, 210. 
Tn p. 141, he gives us the following account of Mr. Boyd, 
in support of his assertion that he was the writer of these 
letters. “ From this time [Nov. 27, 1771,] till the 20th 
of January following, Mr. Boyd’s whole time was occupied 
in examining the law books and state trials above men- 
tioned, and in writing with his usual secrecy for the Public 
Advertiser: Junius’s elaborate letter to Lord Mansfield, in 
which he strove hard to make good his charge against him, 
is dated the 2lst of January, 1772: about three weeks 
after the publication of this letter, Mr. Boyd went to Ireland ; 
and Junius ceased to write under that signature for the Public 
Advertiser.’ The reader will perceive by a reference to 
Private Letters, Nos. 40 and 48, that the letter to Lord Mans- 
field was finished some considerable time before it made its 
appearance in the Public Advertiser ; and by comparing the 
dates of the Private Letters, subsequent to that publication, 
up to March 5, 1772, of which there are no less than seven, 
he will be satisfied that it was totally impossible for the writer 
of the Letters of Junius to be in Ireland at the period described 
by Mr. Campbell. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *155 


voyage to India upon official business relating 
to the Nabob of Arcot. It was Maclean who, 
according to his biographer, furnished Boyd 
with the greater part of the secret transactions 
of our own government, and the intelligence he 
made use of in relation to the oriental concerns 
of the Nabob Mahomed Ali Khaan; who largely 
and liberally assisted him with pecuniary aid 
while at home, and < faithfully promised him 
he would, upon his return from India, assist in 
clearing him from all his pecuniary difficulties.” 
The proofs are unquestionable, that the above 
letter was written by Junius; and that he wrote 
it also in contempt and ridicule of Laughlin 
Maclean, who instead of being, as Mr. Camp- 
bell affirms, an opponent of the ministry at 
this time, was an avowed defendant of them. 
Will Mr. Boyd’s biographers and advocates, 
after this anecdote, so far vilify his memory as 
to contend that it was written by himself? 

Of all the reputed authors of these cele- 
brated addresses, Dunning, Lord Ashburton, 
offers the largest aggregate of claim in his 
favour; and, but for a few facts which seem 
decisive against him, might fairly be admitted 
to have been the real Juntus. Hisage and rank 
in life, his talents and learning, his brilliant wit, 
and sarcastic habit, his common residence, 
during the period in question, his political prin- 


*156 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


ciples, attachments and antipathies conspire in 
marking him as the man: but unfortunately for 
such a conclusion, Dunning was solicitor-gene- 
ral at the time these letters first appeared, and 
for more than a twelvemonth afterwards: and 
Junius himself has openly and solemnly affirmed, 
<< T am 20 lawyer by profession ; nor do I pretend 
to be more deeply read than every English 
gentleman should be in the laws of his country’.” 
Dunning was a man of high unblemished honour, 
as well as of high independent principles; it 
cannot therefore be supposed that he would have 
vilified the King, while one of the King’s confi- 
dential servants and counsellors: nor would he, 
as a barrister, have written to Woodfall in the 
course of a confidential correspondence, “ J am 
advised that no jury will find” a bill’. 

Another person who has had a claim ad- 
vanced in his favour upon the same subject, is 
the late celebrated Henry Flood, M. P. of Ire- 
Jand, ‘This claim has. only been urged within 
the last few weeks. Now, without wandering 
at large for proofs that Mr. Flood could not 
have been the writer of the Letters of Junrus, it 
is only sufficient to call the reader’s attention to 
the two following facts : | 

First, Mr. Flood was in Ireland throughout 


* Preface, p. 10, Private Letters, No. 18. 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. *157 


a great part of the summer of 1768, and ata 
time when Junius, whoever he may have been, 
was perpetually corresponding with the printer of 
the Public Advertiser, and with a rapidity which 
could not have been maintained, not only in 
Ireland, but even at a hundred, and occasionally 
at less than fifty miles distance from the British 
metropolis. This fact may be collected, among 
other authorities, from the following passage in 
Mr. Campbell’s Life of Boyd, and is just as ad- 
verse to the pretensions of the one as of the 
other. | 

“ In the summer of 1768 Boyd went to 
Ireland for a few months, on some private busi- 
ness. During his stay in Dublin he was con- 
stantly in the company of Mr. Flood.” 

Next, by turning to the Private Letters of 
Junius, No. 44, of the date of Nov. 27, 1771, 
the reader will find the following paragraph: “ I 
fear your friend Jerry Dyson will lose his Irish 
pension.—Say “‘ received.”” The mark “re- 
ceived’? occurs accordingly in the Public Ad- 
vertiser of the day ensuing. Now by turning to 
the Irish debates of this period, we shall find 
that the question concerning this pension was 
actually determined by the Irish parliament just 
two days before the date of the above mentioned 
Private Letter, and that Mr. Flood was one of 
the principal opponents of the grant, a circum- 


*158 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


stance which precludes the possibility of believ- 
ing him to have written the letter in question. 
We shall extract the article from whence this in- 
formation is derived, from the Public Advertiser 
of Dec. 18, 1771. . 

«« Authentic copy of the conclusion of the 
speech which Mr. Flood made in the Irish House 
of Commons, on Monday the 25th of Novem- 
ber last, when the debate on the pension of Je- 
remiah Dyson, Esq. came on before the com- 
mittee of supplies : 

ee But of all the burthens which it has 
pleased government to lay upon our devoted 
shoulders, that which is the subject of the pre- 
sent debate is the most grievous and intolerable. 
—Who does not know Jeremiah Dyson, Esq. ?— 
We know little of him indeed, otherwise than 
by his name in our pension list ; but there are 
others who know him by his actions. ‘This ishe 
who is endued with those happy talents, that he 
has served every administration, and served 
every one with equal success—a civil, pliable, 
good-natured gentleman, who will do what 
you will, and say what you please—for pay- 
ment. . . 

“ Here Mr. Flood was interrupted, and 
called to order by Mr. M , who urged_ that 
more respect ought to be paid to Mr. Dyson 
as one of his Majesty’s officers, and, as such, one 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. #159 


whom his Majesty was graciously pleased to re- 
pose confidence in. However Mr. Flood went on. 

«« As to the royal confidence reposed in Mr. 
Dyson, his gracious Majesty (whom God long 
preserve) has been graciously lavish of it, not 
only to Mr. Dyson, but to the friends of Mr. 
Dyson; and I think the choice was good: The 
royal secrets will, I dare say, be very secure in 
their breasts, not only for the love they bear to 
his gracious Majesty, but for the love they bear 
to themselves. In the present case, however, 
we do not want to be informed of that part of 
Mr. Dyson’s character—we know enough of him 
—every body knows enough of him—ask the 
British treasury—the British council—ask any 
Englishman who he is, what he is—they can all 
tell you, for the gentleman is well known.— 
But what have we to do with him? | He never 
served Ireland, nor the friends of Ireland. And 
if this distressed kingdom was never benefited 
by his counsel, interest, or service, I see no 
good cause why this kingdom should reward. 
him. Let the honourable members of this house 
consider this, and give their voices accordingly. 
—For God’s sake let every man consult his 
conscience: If Jeremiah Dyson, Esq. shall be 
found to deserve this pension, let it be conti- 
nued ; if not, let it be lopped off our revenue 
as burthensome and unnecessary.” 


*160 PRELIMINARY ESSAY. 


Let us proceed to the pretensions that have 
been offered on the part of Lord George Sack- 
ville as the real Junius. . The evidence is some- 
what indecisive even to the present hour. Sir 
William Draper divided his suspicions between 
this nobleman and Mr. Burke, and upon the 
personal and unequivocal denial of the latter, he 
transferred them entirely to the former: and 
that Sir William was not the only person who 
suspected his Lordship even from the first, is 
evident from the Private Letter of Junius, 
which asserts that Swinney had actually called 
upon Lord Sackville and taxed him with be- 
ing Junius, to his face’. ‘This letter is, in 
fact, one of the most curious of the whole 
collection: if written by Lord George Sack- 
ville it settles the point at once; and, if not 
written by him, presupposes an acquaintance 
with his Lordship’s family, his sentiments and 
his connexions so intimate as to excite no small 
degree of astonishment. Junius was informed 
of Swinney’s having called upon Lord George 
Sackville, a few hours after his call, and he 
knew that before this time he had never spoken 
to him in his life. It is certain then, that Lord 
George Sackville was early and generally sus- 
pected, that Junius knew him to be suspected 


¥ Private Letters, No. 5. 


7 


PRELIMINARY ESSAY. #161 


without denying, as in the case of the author of 
«The Whig", &c.” that he was suspected wrong- 
fully; and that this nobleman, if not Junius him- 
self, must have been inhabitsof close and intimate 
friendship with him. The talents of Lord George 
Sackville were well known and admitted, and 
his political principles led him to the same side 
of the question that was so warmly espoused 
by Junius. It is said, however, that on one 
occasion his Lordship privately observed to a 
friend of his, ‘* I should be proud to be capable 
of writing as Junius has done; but there are 
many passages in his letters I should be very sorry 
to have written*.”? Such a declaration, however, 
is too general to be in any way conclusive: even 
Junius himself might, in a subsequent period, 
have regretted that he had written some of the 
passages that occur in his letters. In the case 
of his letter to Junia, we know he did from his 
ownavowal. It is nevertheless peculiarly hostile 
to the opinion in favour of Lord George Sack- 
ville, that Junius should roundly have accused 
him of want of courage, as he has done in Vol. 
II. p. 491. The facts, however, are fairly before 
the reader, and he shall be left to the exercise 
of his own judgment. 


* Private Letters, No. 23. 2 See Chalmers’s Appendix te 
the Supplemental Apology, p. 7. 
yoL. I. i 


sae rat PAREN LITAT 

5 fortitre ot BH esky olf nt Be ae ra 
Sgitcrw bensiqent ect od tasty Sea 
sated o-idaG Sort Tirbersider eit 
dnmnitah bite sol to etidads stout el 
oMid9D BiG. To eristes ofT mii . 
hos .betieibs bin sword ilew Om w sit 
Shie oni od) of itil bel “eobeint 
Perr, xluwiny 1 Oe Eaw. jal? 08 
df tio shily a Povo Dine aPutY 
“g of bovidede ydhrhq qikbtel: ae Ms 
“gldagns ‘sd%ay Bio ab Bode Dg jobaort 
vow state tud ;oteb esd evel 
‘qitoe (ied ftcwngle T atadtol etd nt 
igo rgwott qaottinttooh nidou® sus 
gra“ ovielyiw> tow yas’ nisd Oba 
hein, Sasupordye oe. tt ae . 
ott gy in ten” hottirw bel ori tec 
“oaB5 aa nl varastet eit ti ure 
«iA merit Bib Sat Wb ber uae 
Volinenl yixailinsd eevlodito roe te 
“i? S105" BO ‘oe eis 
“bstuesd ovad ribaveg bhsotl 
nent 8 a 


PRIVATE LETTERS 


oY 


JUNIUS 


ADDRESSED TO 


MR. H. 8S. WOODFALL. 


; " ‘tz * PA 


CMP? 8 Tek 


: lia '> roy Aetitigg .% ty eo 7 Me 
seilthbdx 31 OT * gave: 
, an i. 6 
eh } iy 


-Qabiesaooin 2.8 


eh eo pits: 


PRIVATE LETTERS 


OF 


FU Nd Uy Se 


N° 1. 


MR. WOODFALL. 
SIR, April 20, 1169. 
I am preparing a paper, which you shall 
have on or before Saturday night. 


Advertise 
it for Monday *. Junius on Monday. 


C. 
If any enquiry is made about these papers, 


I shall rely on your giving me a hint. 


Nos 


Friday, May 5th, V169". 
Ir is essentially necessary that the inclos- 
ed should be published to-morrow, as the great 


SiR, 


* Junius, Letter xt. 


* This note was addressed to Mr. Woodfall, with a desiré 
that it should “be opened by himself only.” 


*166 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


question comes on on Monday, and Lord Granby 
is already staggered’. . 

If you should receive an answer to it, you 
will oblige me much by not publishing it, till 
after Monday. 

C. 


* The letter is printed in the Miscellaneous Collection, No. 
Ly. and the great question alluded to was upon the Middlesex 
petition against the seating of Col. Luttrell for that county. 
The dehate took place-on. Monday the 8th of May in the 
House of Commons, and continued from half past one o’clock 
in the afternoon, till half past four. the next morning, when, 
upon a division, there appeared for the petition 152, against it 
221. The speakers on this oecasion, in favour of the petition, 
were. Mr. Dowdeswell, Lord J. Cavendish, Mr. Wedderburne, 
Mr. Grenville, Mr. Cornwall, Mr. Burke, Mr. Seymour, and 
Sir George Saville: those against it, Mr. Stanley, Sir G. Osborne, 
Dr. Blackstone, Mr. W. Ellis, Mr. Thurlow, Mr, C. J. Fox, 
Mr. Moreton, and Sir F. Norton. 

In-consequence of the rejection of the petition to the House 
of Commons, the following was soon afterwards presented to 
the King; which we insert, as we shall also, in their due 
places, those of London and Westminster, upon similar: sab-. 
jects, with a view of giving some idea of the general polities 
of the day, and the warmth of the respective controversies 
that distinguished it. 

“0 THE KING’S MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY, 

“ The humble petition of the Freeholders of the oo of 
Middlesex. 

«© Most gracious Sover eign, 

“We, your Majesty’s dutiful and loyal subjects: the! 
Freeholders of the County of Middlesex, beg leave with all 
affectionate submission. and humility, to throw ourselves at 


diel! 


TO Mr. H.S. WOODFALL, * *167 


your royal feet, and humbly to implore your paternal attention 
to those grievances of which this county and the whole nation 
complain, and those fearful apprehensions with which the 
whele British empire is most justly alarmed. 

«With great grief and sorrow, we have long beheld the en- 
deavours of certain evil-minded persons, who attempt to infuse 
into your royal mind, notions and opinions of the most dan- 
gerous and pernicious tendency, and who promote and counsel 
such measures as cannot fail to destroy that harmony and 
confidence which should ever subsist between a just and vir- 
tuous Prince, and a free and loyal people. 

* For this.disaffected purpose they have introduced into 
every part of the administration of our happy, legal constitution, 
a certain unlimited. and indefinite discretionary power ; to pre- 
yent which is the sole aim of all our laws, and was the sole 
cause of all those disturbances and revolutions which formerly 
distracted’ this unhappy country; for our ancestors, by their 
own fatal experience, well knew that in a state where discre- 
tion begins, law, liberty and safety end. Under the pretence 
of this discretion, or, as it was formerly, and has been lately 
called—Law of state—we have seen 

“ English subjects, and even a member of the British Le. 
gislature, arrested by virtue of a general warrant issued by a 
secretary of state, contrary to the law of the land.— 

“ Their houses rifled and plundered, their papers seized, and 
used as evidence upon trial.-— ; 

“Their bodies committed to close imprisonment.— 

“ The Habeas Corpus eluded.— 

«“ Trial by jury discountenanced, and the first law officer of 
the crown publicly insinuating that juries are not to be trusted., 

“Printers punished by the ministry in the supreme court 
without a trial by their equals, without any trial at all.— 

_ “The remedy of the law for false imprisonment debarred 
and defeated,— j . 
«The 


*168 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


“ The Plaintiff and his Attorney, for their appeal to the law 
of the land, punished by expenses and imprisonment, and 
made, by forced engagements, to desist from their legal claim.— 

« A writing determined to be. a libel by a court where it 
was not cognizable in the first instance; contrary to law, be-~ 
eause all appeal is thereby cut off, and inferior courts and juries 
influenced by such predetermination.— 

« A person condemned in the said courts as the author of 
the supposed libel unheard, without defence or trial.— 

“ Unjust treatment of Petitions, by selecting only such parts 
as might be wrested to criminate the petitioner, and refusing 
to hear those which might procure him redress.— 

“The thanks of one branch of the Legislature proposed by 
4 minister to be given to an acknowledged offender for his of~ 
fence, with the declared intention of screening him from the 
law.— 

« Attachments wrested from their original intent of removing 
obstructions to the proceedings of law, to punish, by sentence 
of arbitrary fine and imprisonment, without trial or appeal, 
supposed offences committed out of court.— 

«‘ Perpetual imprisonment of an Englishman without trial; 
éonviction, or sentence, by the same mode of attachment, 
wherein the same person is at once party, be, judge, and 
jury.— 

“ Instead of the ancient and legal civil police, the military 
introduced at every opportunity, unnecessarily and unlawfully 
patrolling the streets tothe alarm and terror of the inhabi- 
tants.— 

“The lives of many of your Majesty’s innocent subjects: 
destroyed by military execution.— 

“Such military execution solemnly adjudged to be legal. 

“ Murder abetted, encouraged, and rewarded.— 

' The civil magistracy rendered contemptible by me ap~ 
ponents of improper and incapable persons.— 


« Thee 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL: *169 


“The civil magistrates tampered with by administration, and 
neglecting and refusing to discharge their duty.— 

«Mobs and riots hired and raised by the ministry, in order 
to justify and recommend their own illegal proceedings, and 
to prejudice your Majesty’s mind by false insinuations against 
the loyalty of your Majesty’s subjects.— 

«The freedom of election violated by corrupt and undue 
influence, by unpunished violence and murder.— 

“The just verdicts of juries, and the opinion of the judges 
over-ruled by false representations to your Majesty; and the 
determinations of the law set aside, by new, unprecedented, 
and dangerous means; thereby leaving the guilty without 
restraint, and the injured without redress, and the lives of 
your Majesty’s subjects at the mercy of every ruffian protected 
by administration.— . 

“ Obsolete and vexatious claims of the crown set on foot for 
partial and election purposes.— 

“ Partial attacks on the liberty of the press : the most daring 
and pernicious libels against the constitution and against the 
liberty of the subject, being allowed to pass unnoticed, whilst 
the slightest libel against a minister is punished with the utmost 
rigour.— ' 

-“ Wicked attempts to mcrease and establish a standing army, 
by endeavouring to vest in the crown an unlimited power over 
the militia, which, should they succeed, must, souner or later, 
subvert the constitution, by augmenting the power of admi- 
nistration in proportion to their delinquency.— 

“ Repeated endeavours to diminish the importance of mem- 
bers of parliament individually, in order to render them more 
dependent on administration collectively. Even threats having 
been employed by ministers to suppress the freedom of debate ; 
and the wrath of parliament denounced against measures au- 
thorized by the law of the land. 
~ © Resolutions of one branch of the legislature, set up as the 
law of the land, being a direct usurpation of the rights of the 

two 


£170 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


two other branches, and therefore a manifest infringement of 
the constitution. 

* Public money shamefully squandered and sisiomeetned 
for; and all enquiry into the cause of arrears into the civil 
list prevented by the ministry. , 

«Enquiry into a pay-master’s public accounts stopped in 
the Exchequer, though the sums unaccounted for by that pay- 
master amount to above forty millions sterling — 

** Public loans perverted to private ministerial purposes.— 

“ Prostitution of public honours and rewards to men who 
can neither plead public virtue nor services. — 

“Trreligion and immorality so eminently discountenanced 
by your Majesty’s royal example, encouraged by administra» 
tion, both by example and precept.— lov 

«The same discretion has been extended by the same evil 
counsellors to your Majesty’s dominions in America, and has 
produced to our suffering fellow-subjects in that part of the 
world, grievances and apprehensions similar to those which we 
complain of at home.— 

“ Most gracious Sovereign, 

« Such are the grievances and apprehensions which 
have long discontented and disturbed the greatest and_ best 
part of your Majesty’s loyal subjects. _ Unwilling however. to 
interrupt your royal repose, though ready to lay down our 
lives and fortunes for your Majesty’s service, and for the con- 
stitution as by law established, we have waited patiently ex- 
pecting a constitutional remedy by the means of our own re- 
presentatives, but our legal and free choice having been re- 
peatedly rejected, and the right of election now finally taken 
from us by the unprecedented seating of a candidate who was 
never chosen by the county, and who, even to become a can- 
didate, was obliged fraudulently to vacate his seat in parlia- 
ment, under the pretence of an insignificant place, invited 
thereto by the prior declaration of a minister, that whoever 
epposed our choice, though but with four votes, should be - 

4 declared 


TO Mr. H. $8: WOODFALL. ~ *171 


declared member for the county, we see ourselves by this 
last act, deprived even of the franchises of Englishmen, re- 
duced to the most abject state of slavery, and left without 
hopes or means of redress but from your Majesty or God. 

« Deign then, most gracious Sovereign to listen to the prayer 
of the most faithful of your Majesty’s subjects; and to banish 
from your royal favour, trust, and confidence, for ever, those 
evil and pernicious counsellors, who have endeavoured to ali- 
enate the affection of your Majesty’s most sincere and dutiful 
subjects, and whose suggestions tend to deprive your people 
of their dearest and most essential rights, and who have traitor- 
ously dared to depart from the spirit and letter of those laws 
which have secured the Crown of these realms to the House 
of Brunswick, in which we make our most earnest prayers. 
to God that it may continue untarnished to the latest poste- 
rity.” 

Signed by 1565 Freeholders. 


N°3. 
SIR, Saturday, July 15th, 17169. 
I nave received the favour of your note. 
From the contents of it, I imagine, you may 
have something to communicate to me ; if that. 
be the case, I beg you will be particular; and: 
also that you will tell me candidly whether you 


know or suspect who Iam, Direct a letter to 
Mr. William Middleton' to be left at the bar 


* «Mr. William Middleton’s Letter is sent as desired.” Ans 
swer to Correspondents in the P. A. of July 20ih, 1769. 


*172 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


of the New Exchange Coffee-house on Monday 
as early as you think proper. 
Iam, Sir, your most obedient, and 
most humble servant, 


C. 


N° 4, 
(Private) 
SIR, July 1 Tih, 1769. 


Mr. Newberry having thought pro- 
per to reprint my Letters’, I wish at least 
he had done it correctly. You will oblige 
me much by giving him the following hint * 
to-morrow. ‘The inclosed? when you think 


proper. 
“¢ Mr. Newberry having thought proper to 


* Newberry had thought proper at this time to publish a 
spurious and surreptitious edition of the first fifteen Letters, 
as printed in the author’s edition, under the title of “The Po- 
litical Contest ;’’? and it was these unauthorized publications 
that gave the first idea of publishing a genuine edition of the 
whole. 

* This request does not appear to have been complied with ; 
as the following answer to correspondents was inserted in the 
Public Advertiser of the 18th of July :—“ Reasons why the 
hint was not printed are sent to the last mentioned Coffee-house 
in the Strand, from whence our old correspondent will be 
pleased to send for them.” 

* Junius, Letter xvn 


9 
“ 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *173 


reprint Juntus’s Letters, might at least have 
corrected the errata, as we did constantly. 


Page 1, Line 13, for national read rational. 


— 3, — 4, — was ; — were. 

— 5, — 15, — indisputable — indispensable. 
Letter 7, — 4, — in all mazes — inall the mazes, 

— 15, — 24, — rightest — brightest. 

— 48, — 2, — indiscreet — indirect.”’ 


I did not expect more than the life of a 
newspaper, but if this man will keep me alive, 
let me live without being offensive. 


Speciosa quero pascere tigres. 


N° 5. 

SIR, July 21st, V169, Friday Night. 
I can have no manner of objection to 

your reprinting the Letters, if you think it will 
answer, which I believe it might, before New- 
berry appeared. If you determine to do it, give 
me a hint, and I will send you more errata (in- 
deed they are innumerable) and perhaps a Pre- 
face. I really doubt whether I shall write any 
more under this signature’. Iam weary of at- 
tacking a set of brutes, whose writings. are 
too dull to furnish me even with the materials of 
contention, and whose measures are too gross 


* See Dedication, p. 1. 


#174 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


and direct to be the subject of argument, or to 
‘require illustration. 

That. Swinney‘ is a wretched but a danger- 
ous fool. He had the impudence to go to-Lord 
G. Sackville, whom he had never spoken to, and 
to ask him whether or no he was the author of 
Junrus—take care of him, 

Whenever you have any thing to communi- 
cate to me, let the hint be thus C at the usual 
place, and so direct to Mr, John Fretley, at the 
same Coffee-house, where it is absolutely im- 
possible I should be known. 

I did zot mean the Latin to be printed. 

I wish Lord Holland may acquit himself 
with honour*. If his cause be good, he should 
at once have published that account, to which 
he refers in his letter to the Mayor °. 

Pray tell me whether George Onslow means 
to keep his word with you about prosecuting *. 


7 A Correspondent of the Printer’s. 

* The Editor has already observed, in the Dreliminars 
Essay, that Junius appears to have uniformly entertained a 
good opinion of, or at least a partiality for, Lord Holland, 
The remark is not new; it was noticed long ago by several 
of his opponents. Thus, in a letter subscribed by our author, 
Anti-Fox, and inserted in the Public Advertiser of October 
16th, 1771, he thus speaks of him: “I know nothing of Ju- 
nius; but I see plainly that he has designedly spared Jord 
Holland and his family.” 

3 See note A at the end of the Letter. . 

* See note B at the end of the Letter. 


- TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. ~ *175 


Yes or No will be sufficient. Your Lycurgus* 
isa Mr. Kent, a young man of good parts upon’ 
town. And so I wish you a good night. 
Yours, 
ex 


* Lycurgus was a frequent writer in the Public Advertiser 
during the spring and summer of 1769; and opposed the 


ministry, but with less violence than most of his contem- 
poraries, 


tre 


He seems to refer to a charge of embezzlement of the 
public treasure, made in the City Petition presented to his 
Majesty, July 5th, 1769, of which the following is a copy :— 


The humble Petition of the Livery of the City of London in 
Common Hall assembled. 


“ Most gracious Sovereign, 

“ We, your Majesty’s dutiful and loyal sub- 
jects, the Livery of the City of London, with all the humility 
which is due from free subjects to their lawful Sovereign, but 
with all the anxiety which the sense of the present oppressions, 
and the just dread of future mischiefs produce in our minds, 
beg leave to lay before your Majesty some of those intolerable 
grievances which your people have suffered from the evil con- 
duct of those who have been intrusted with the administration 
of your Majesty’s government, and from the secret unremitting 
influence of the worst of counsellors. 

. © We should be wanting in our duty to your Majesty, as 
well as to ourselves and our posterity, should we forbear to 
represent to the throne the desperate attempts which have 
heen; and are too successfully made, to destroy that constitu- 

tion, 


*176 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


tion, to the spirit of which we owe the relation which subsists. 
between your Majesty and the subjects of these realms, and to 
subyert those sacred laws which our ancestors have sealed with, 
their blood. | "i 

“ Your ministers, from corrupt principles, and in violation 
of every duty, have, by various enumerated means, invaded our 
invaluable and unalienable right of trial by jury. ? 

“They have, with impunity, issued general warrants, and 
violently seized persons and private papers. 

« They have rendered the laws non-effective to our security, _ 
by evading the Habeas Corpus. 

“ They have caused punishments, and even perpetual im- 
prisonment, to be inflicted without trial, conviction, or sentence. 

“« They have brought into disrepute the civil magistracy, by 
the appointment of. persons who are, in many respects, un- 
qualified for that important trust, and have thereby purposely. 
furnished a pretence for calling in the aid of a military power. 

« They avow, and endeavour to establish a maxim, absolutely 
inconsistent with our constitution, that ‘an occasion for effec- 
tually employing a military force always presents itself when 
the civil power is trifled with or dnsulted ;? and by a fatal and 
false application of this maxim, they have wantonly and 
wickedly sacrificed the lives of many of your Majesty’s imno-. 
cent subjects, and have prostituted your Majesty’s sacred’ 
name and authority, to justify, wascmmiaee and recommend their 
own illegal and bloody actions. oe aaa 

“ They haye screened more than one murderer from punish= 
ment, and in its place have unnaturally substituted reward. 

“ They have established numberless unconstitutional regula- 
tions and taxations in our colonies. They have caused a te~’ 
venue to be raised in some of them by prerogative. ‘They have 
appointed civil law judges to try revenue causes, and nfo 
paid from out of the condemnation money. 

“ After having insulted and defeated the law on aifferent' 
occasions, and by different contrivances, both at home and * 

abroad, 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *177 


abroad, they have at length completed their design, by violently 
wresting from tlie people the last sacred right we had left, the 
right of election; by the unprecedented seating of a candidate 
notoriously set up and chosen only by themselves. They have 
thereby taken from your subjects all hopes of parliamentary 
redress, and have left us no resource, under God, but in your 
Majesty. 

« All this they have been able to effect by corruption; by 
a scandalous misapplication and embezzlement of the public 
treasure, and a shameful prostitution of public honours and 
employments; procuring deficiencies of the civil list to be 
made good without examination; and, instead of punishing, 
conferring honours on a pay-master, the public defaulter of un- 
accounted millions. 

“ From an unfeigned sense of the duty we owe to your 
Majesty, and to our country, we have ventured thus humbly to 
lay before the throne these great and important truths, which 
it has been the business of your ministers to conceal. We 
most earnestly beseech your Majesty to grant us redress. It is 
for the purpose of redress alone, and for such occasions as the 
present, that those great and extensive powers are intrusted to 
the crown, by the wisdom of that constitution, which your 
Majesty’s illustrious family was. chosen to defend, and which 
we trust in God, it will for ever continue to support.’’ 

Lord Holland suspecting himself to be implicated in the last 
paragraph but one of the above petition, addressed the following 
letter to the Lord Mayor upon this subject :— 


rad THE RIGHT HONOURABLE THE LORD MAYOR. 


« My Lord, 

“Tn a petition presented by your Lordship it is 
mentioned as a grievance, Instead of punishing, conferring 
honours on a pay-master, the public defaulter of unaccounted 
millions. Lam told that Iam the pay-master here censured 3 
may I beg to know of your Lordship if it is so? If it is, lam 

VOL. I. uM sure 


#178 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


sure Mr, Beckford must have been against it, because he knows, 
and could have shewn your Lordship in writing, the utter false- 
hood of what is there insinuated. 

«J have not the honour to know your Lordship, so I cannot 
tell what you may have heard to induce you to carry to our 
Sovereign a complaint of so atrocious a nature. 

“ Your Lordship, by your speech made to the King at de- 
livering the petition, has adopted the contents of it; and I 
do not know of whom to enquire but of your Lordship concern 
ing this injury done to an innocent man, who am by this 
means (if I am the person meant) hung out as an object of 
public hatred and resentment. 

You haye too much honour and justice not to tell me 
whether I am the person meant, and if I am, the grounds upon 
which I am thus charged, that I may vindicate myself, which 
truth will enable me to do to the conviction of the bitterest 
enemy ; and therefore I may boldly say, to your Lordship’s 
entire satisfaction, whom I certainly have never offended, 

“ Tam, with the greatest respect, 
« My Lord, 
“ Your Lordship’s most obedient 
«« And most humble servant, 
« Holland House, Kensington, « HOLLAND,? 
“ July 9th, 17692” 


To this letter the Lord Mayor returned the following 
answer :— 
« The Lord Mayor presents his compliments to 
Lord Holland, and in answer to the honour of his Lordship’s 
letter delivered to him by Mr. Selwyn, he begs leave to say that 
he had no concern in drawing up the petition from the Livery 
of London to bis Majesty ; that he looks on himself only as the 
the carrier, together with other gentlemen charged by the 
Livery with the delivery of it; that he does not, nor ever did, 
hold himself accountable for the contents of it, and is a stranger 
to the nature of the supposed charge against his Lordship. 


“« Mansion House, July 10, 1769,”, 
Mr, 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *179 


Mr. Beckford, seeing his name implicated in this correspon- 
dence, wrote from the country the following letter to a friend, 
who was a Liveryman of the city :-— 


« Dear Sir, Fonthill, July 15, 1769. 


« J am as much surprised as you seein to be, at 
seeing my name, and papers in my possession, appealed to by 
a noble Lord.—You and my friends in the city think it incum- 
bent on me to vindicate (as they are pleased to express them- 
selves) my honour and character, which is called in question. 
The only proper satisfaction in my power to give you and my 
other friends, is to relate plain matters of fact, to the best of 
my recollection. 

“ In the last session of Parliament, on a question of revenue 
(as far as my memory serves) I did declare to the House that 
the public revenue had been squandered away, and that the 
money of the nation had not been regularly audited and ac- 
counted for. 

“«« That in the department of the pay-office I had been inform- 
ed there were upwards of forty millions not properly accounted 
for ; that the officers of the King’s Exchequer were bound in 
duty to see justice done to the public ; that process had issued 
out of the Court of Exchequer, and that all proceedings for a 
certain time had been suspended by the King’s sign manual. 
I then did declare, that it was an high offence for any minister 
to advise the King to stop the course of public justice, without 
assigning a very good reason for such his advice.—I desired the 
chancellor of the exchequer, and the lords of the treasury, 
who sat opposite to me, to set me right if my information was 
not well-founded ; but not a single word was uttered in answer 
by any of the gentlemen in administration. 

« After some days had elapsed, I met my friend Mr, Wood- 
house in Westminster Hall, he told me I had been misinformed 
as to what I had mentioned in the House of Commons, and 
that if I would give him leave, he would send mea paper from 
a noble Lord, which would convince me of my mistake. The 

| mum 2 paper 


#180 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


paper alluded to is in London, I therefore cannot speak of the 
contents with accuracy and precision; but this I recollect, that 
the perusal of the paper did not convince me that all I had 
heard was false. It was a private paper, and I do not recollect 
having shewn it to more than a single person. I have no 
doubt Mr. Woodhouse has a copy of the paper by him, and E 
hope he will submit the contents to the judgment of the pub- 
lic, in vindication of an rNNocENT man. 
« T am, dear Sir, 
“ Your ever faithfal and affectionate humble servant, 
“ WILLIAM BECKFORD.” 

It was in consequence of this letter that Lord Holland was 
induced to publish the account above referred to by Junius, 
and again by Mr. Beckford. Long as it is, it ought not to be 
omitted in this place. 


FOR THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


Letter to H. S. Woodfall. 
MR. WOODFALL, Kingsgate, July 20, 1769. 

« Lord Holland seeing in your paper a letter from 
Mr. Beckford to a Liveryman, of July 15, 1769, and Mr. 
Woodhouse being at Spa, m Germany, sends you an authentie 
copy of the paper which he sent by Mr. Woodhouse to Mr. 
Beckford. He hopes the perusal of it will convince the reader 
that all is false that can impute any crime to Lord Holland. 

«« The reader will see that some of Lord Holland’s accounts 
were then before the auditor; and there are two years’ ac- 
counts since lodged there. 

« He will see that Lord Holland’s accounts (voluminous and 
difficult beyond example) have not been kept back from incli- 
nation, but necessity ; and not longer than those of his prede- 
cessors. 

« He will see (and is desired to observe particularly) that 
savings, so far from remaining all in Lord Holland’s hands, had 
been given in and voted in aid of the public service, to the 
amount of £910,541. And £43,533. 19s. 7d. (upon some 

“" ¢ regimental 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. #18) 


regimental and other accounts being adjusted this last winter) 
have been since paid and voted. 

« He will read in it, that Lord Holland desired to be shewn 
how he could proceed faster than he did. If nobody has shewn 
or can show how that might have been, or may be done, does 
he deserve either punishment or censure? And had he not a 
right to think himself sure that Mr. Beckford must have been 
against the article in the petition relating to him, because Mr. 
Beckford knew, and could have shewn the Lord Mayor in 
writing, the utter falsehood of what is there insinuated. 

“ Lord Holland prints the memorial examined by the Trea- 
sury, and the sign manual it obtained ; stopping process (not 
accounts) for six months, which neither did nor could suspend 
or delay the pay-master’s accounts an hour. 

HOLLAND.” 


OBSERVATIONS ON THE ACCOUNTS OF THE PAY-MASTER GENERAL. 


Why were Lord Holland’s accounts, as pay-master general, 
for the years 1757, 1758, and 1759, not delivered to the au- 
ditors before the year 1768 ? 


ANSWER. 


The pay-master general’s officers being best acquainted with 
army accounts, are employed in making up the account of the 
preceding pay-masters. The accounts of the earls of Chat- 
ham, Darlington, and Kinnoul, and Mr. Potter, were made 
up by them, and regularly, and in due course delivered to the 
auditors. 

Great as the army and its expenses were during the last 
war, beyond all former example, dispersed in all quarters of 
the world, and difficult as it must have been to keep the ac- 
counts in any tolerable order, it will be found, upon examina- 
tion, that the accounts of Lord Holland, as pay-master gene- 
ral, are not further back than those of his predecessors, and 
that his Lordship’s accounts are not kept back, as has been sug- 
gested, from inclination, but necessity. 

The 


#182 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


The late Mr. Winnington’s accounts, for two years‘and a half, 
from December, 1743, to 24th of June, 1746, were declared the 
15th of May, 1760. The earl of Chatham’s accounts for nine 
years and a half, from the 25th June, 1746, to the 24th of 
December, 1755, are not yet declared. 

The earls of Darlington and Kinnoul for the year 1756, 
and the earl ef Kinnoul’s and Mr. Potter’s for six months, 
to the 24th of June, 1757, are now before the auditors. 

The accounts of Lord Hoiland for the years 1757, 1758, 
and 1759; likewise the accounts of his deputies, attending 
the army in Germany, from the commencement to the end of 
the late war, are also before the auditors for their examina 
tion, and his Lordship’s account for the year 1760, is almost 
ready to be delivered to them. 

From the nature and extension of army accounts, it is most 
evident te those that are best acquainted with them, that it is 
tedious and difficult to bring even regimental accounts to a 
final adjustment; other parts of the accounts are more so. 
Lord Holland, in the course of the years 1759, 1760, 1761, 
1762, 1763, and 1764, has paid to regiments and independ- 
ent companies £320,591 9s. 11d. whose accounts are at this 
time unadjusted, for want of proper authorities, and till those 
authorities are obtained, the auditor will not allow one shilling 
of said sum in his Lordship’s accounts. To obtain those au- 
thorities, his Lordship has often repeated his solicitations, 


What is the balance of cash in Lord Holland’s hands 2. 


ANSWER. 

The meaning of this question can be no other than, what 
savings are in Lord Holland’s hands? Or, in other words, how 
much has the expense in any case fallen short of the sum voted? 

As to the savings :—so far as the pay-oflice has been enabled 
to state the army accounts, they have been given inte parliament. 

From services that have fallen short of the sums voted, and 
from monies paid in by army accomptants, Lord Holland di- 

rected 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL, ~ #183 


rected accounts to be made up and laid before the House of 

Commons; and accordingly (out of these savings in Lord Hol- 

land’s hands) parliament from time to time availed itself of 

the following sums, viz. 

a Sm ids 

ia . . . oS 

Voted in aid of extraordinaries, to sa} 239,966 1 4) 
cember 24, 1763, 

Voted in the year 1764, in aid of ia 
man claims, ; 3 5 

Voted in the year 1765, in aid of raat 251,740 2 4 
service, . ‘ P ‘ 

Voted in the year 1768, in aid of vege) 60,638 2 10 
ordinary services, ; 

Voted in the year 1767, in aid of nail 171,571 13 3 
ordinaries and other services, 


Voted in the year 1768, in aid of ae 15,719 15% 
supply, . ‘ : : ; 


170,906 2 8 


£910,541 18 3 


His Lordship could by no other means ascertain and give 
into parliament the savings on the votes for the army, but by 
the final adjustment of army accounts; what further savings 
may be, is very uncertain, as they cannot be known before 
the services are absolutely determined and closed. 

His Lordship is very sorry tosay it, that in the years 1759, 
1760, 1761, 1762, 1763, and 1764, there aré not less than 
fifty-six regiments and companies now standing open and un- 
adjusted, for want of authorities; and in his Iedgers there are 
accounts to a much greater extent, as the pey of staff officers, 
&e. &e, 

It may be seen here that though Mr. Winningtorr died in 
April, 1746, and his executor, Mr. Ingram, used all possible 
mdustry to close his accounts, they could not bé closed till 
1760; fourteen years. The Earl of Chatham went out in De- 
ecember, 1755, yet are not his accounts closed till 1768; thir- 

teen 


#184 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


teen years. The Earl of Kinnoul’s-are not closed yet, though 
he has been out of the office eleven years. Lord Holland has 
been out three years and a half. Where is the wonder his are 
not closed ? 

If those who complain will shew Lord Holland how he can 
proceed faster than he does, he will be very much obliged to 
them. Let it be observed, that he has before the auditors al- 
ready, accounts for more years than Mr, Winnington or Lord 
Kinnoul had to account for. 


MEMORIAL FOR LORD HOLLAND TO HAVE LONGER TIME TO 
MAKE UP HIS ACCOUNTS AS PAY-MASTER GENERAL. 
May it please your Lordships, 

I beg toinform your Lordships that a process is in 
the hands of the sheriffs of Middlesex against me to account 
to his Majesty for the monies imprested to me, as pay-master 
general of his Majesty’s forces. 

I most humbly apprehend that the regular ordinary course 
of accounting in the Exchequer was calculated (when esta- 
blished) for transactions at home, which are easily-and readily 
to be collected and made up at short periods of time. 

The accounts of the army when employed abroad, particu- 
larly, must unavoidably be much in arrear from the nature of 
the service. . 

The army payments are necessarily in arrear ; and articles 
from accidents inevitable are obliged to remain often open a 
long time before they can finally be closed. 

The accounts of the last war are voluminous and difficult 
beyond example. The great yariety of operations, and the 
very great distance of the troops, made, and must make, the 
correspondence, and adjusting those accounts with the pay- 
masters and accountants attending them, very slow and tedious. 
These therefore will require longer time to make up, both from 
their bulk and difficulty. 

During the course of a war, the troops constantly changing 

and 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *185 


and. moving, and the service in thé utmost hurry; it cannot 
then be-done with the order and regularity absolutely neces- 
sary. Since the war the utmost diligence has been used in 
them. The great intricate article of Foreign expense, (viz. 
the German) has been got together for the whole time (which, 
after the former war, was several years about ;) and one year 
and an half’s general account is now made out, and ready to 
be laid before the auditors ; the rest will regularly be laid be- 
fore them as fast as it is possible to make them up. Though 
I have been two years out of employment, the payments for 
my time are not yet completed. 

I therefore pray your Lordships will be pleased to obtain 
his Majesty’s warrant, granting me longer time for making 
up my accounts as pay-master general of his Majesty’s forces. 


Pay Office, Horse Guards, Which is, &c. &c. 
25th June, 1767. HOLLAND. 


KING’S WARRANT, STAY OF PROCESS AGAINST LORD HOLLAND 
FOR SIX MONTHS, 


Copy. 
George R. 

Whereas our right, trusty, and well-beloved Henry 

Lord Holland hath, by the annexed memorial, represented, 
that from several unavoidable causes and difficulties he hath 
been prevented making up his accompts as late pay-master ge- 
neral of our forces ; and we having taken the said matter into 
our royal consideration, are graciously pleased to grant unto 
him a farther time for making up his said accompts. Our 
will and pleasure therefore is, and we do hereby direct, au- 
thorize, and require you to cause all process against the said 
Henry Lord Holland for his accompts, as late pay-master ge- 
neral of our forces, to be stayed for and during the term of 
six months, computed from the day of the date hereof. And 
for so doing this shall be your warrant. Given at our Court at 
Saint 


*186 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 
Saint Janies’s, the eighth day of July, 1767, in the seventh 
year of our reign. 
By his Majesty’s command, 
GRAFTON, 
C. TOWNSHEND. 
T. TOWNSHEND. 


To our right, trusty, and well-beloved Samuel Lord Mar- 
sham, our Remembrancer in our Court of Exchequer. 


B. 


The history of this dispute is as follows. In the Public 
Advertiser of July 14, 1769, the following letter made its ap- 
pearance, addressed 


TO THE RIGHT HON. GEORGE ONSLOW, ESQ. 
SIR, 

Ihave heard from very good authority that one of 
the Lords of the Treasury has lately gained a thousand pounds 
in a very common and usual manner, which is yet likely to be 
attended with a very uncommon and unusual consequence. 
Mr. applied to the Right Honourable Mr. - for 
his interest for a certain lucrative post in America. ‘The gen- 
tleman was informed that a thousand pounds placed im the 
hands of Mrs. would insure him the placer Mr. 
not having the money, prevailed on Colonel ——— to join 
with him in a bond for that sum to the lady to whom he was 
directed. So far, Sir, all is in the common track: What fol- 
lows is the wonderful part of the transaction. This Lord of 
the Treasury kept his word, and the gentleman was appointed 
to the office he had paid for! And stranger still, Lord ——~, 
who discovered this bargain and sale, is offended at it, and in- 
sists on the dismission of this Lord of the Treasury. Now, 


Sir, I must intreat you te favour one of your constituents with 
the 


TO Mr, H. 8. WOODFALL. *187 


the name of this Lord of the Treasury, for you, no doubt, 
who sit at that Board yourself, must be acquainted with him. 
Ash-Court, July 11. ANOTHER FREEHOLDER OF SURREY. 


To this letter Mr. Onslow made the following reply, which 
was published in the same newspaper, July 18, ensuing. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 

SIR, July 16. 

Having just now read a letter containing, by evident 
insinuation, a most audacious attack upon my character, print- 
ed by you, in your paper of Friday last, asserting a gross 
and infamous lie from beginning to end; Ido hereby publicly 
call upon you to name the person from whom you received the 
account you have presumed to publish. If you are either un- 
able or unwilling to do this, I shall most certainly treat you as 
the author, and in justice both to myself and others who are 
every day thus malignantly and wickedly vilified, shall take the 
best advice in the law if an action will not lie for such atro- 
cious defamation, and if I may not hope to make an example 
of the author of it. 

The scurrility in general which’ has been of late so heaped 
upon me in the public papers, I have hitherto treated with the 
contempt my friends and myself thought it deserved, and suf- 
fered it to pass with impunity ; but this last is so outrageous, 
and tends so much to wound my character and honour in the 
tenderest part, that I am determined, if practicable, to see if 
a jury will not do me and the public justice against such a li- 
beller, and whether they will not think the robbing an inno- 
cent man of his character is a robbery of the most dangerous 
kind, and that the perpetrators of it will stick at nothing. 

For the present I must content myself with only layimg be- 
fore the public the two following letters, which will explain to 
them all the knowledge I had of the detestable fraud, which 
has been taken advantage of to charge me with corruption ; 
a crime, which of all others, I hold the most in abhorrence. I 

defy 


*188 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


defy the whole world to prove a single word in your libellous 
letter to be true, or that the whole is not a barefaced, positive, 
and entire lie. That it is so I do assert, and I call upon any 
body, if they can, to disprove what I say. 
GEORGE ONSLOW. 
Copy of a Letter to Mr. Onslow, received the 27th of June. 


SIR, New Bond Street, June 25, 1769: 
I beg you will pardon my thus addressing you, a 
liberty I could not think of, was any thing less than my fas 
mily’s bread at stake. Some weeks past my husband paid a 
large sum of money (which gave us inexpressible sorrow to 
raise) to a party, who protest they are empowered by you to 
insure him in return, the Collectorship of Piscataway in New 
Hampshire. I have been told this day one Hughes is in pos- 
session of the same, and the Treasury Books confirm the news. 
I beg leave most earnestly to intreat you will inform me whee 
ther Mr. Hughes is under any engagement to resign, or whe- 
ther we are duped by those who have taken our money. 

Mr. Burns has had the strongest recommendations from 
persons of undoubted veracity, and I believe, on all accounts, 
will be found to be perfectly capable and worthy of the em- 
ployment. 

Once more I intreat, good Sir, you will excuse this trouble, 
which is caused by a heart almost broken with the fear and 
terror of a disappointment. With the profoundest respect, 

I am, Sir, 
Your most obedient 
humble Servant, 
MARY BURNS. 
Mr. Onslow’s Answer. 
MADAM, Ember Court, June 27, 1769. 
Your Letter was brought down to me hither only 
to-day, or I should have answered it sooner. Without having 
the honour of being known to you or Mr. Burns, it gives me 
much concern that any body should be so imposed upon as 
you 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *139 


you have been, and as much indignation that my name should 
be made so infamous a use of. I should have been under an 
equal degree of surprise, had I not this morning had some in- 
timation of the matter from Mr. Pownal and Mr. Bradshaw, 
and made some enquiry into it of Mr. Watkins at Charing 
Cross, with a determination to sift this shocking scene of vil- 
lany to the bottom, and which I shall now be encouraged in 
by the hopes of getting you your money restored to you, as 
well as the earnest desire I have to bring the perpetrators of 
this roguery to the punishment and shame they deserve. 

For this purpose, might I beg the favour of Mr. Burns to 
meet me at my house in Curzon Street, about ten o’clock on 
Friday morning.—I will go with him to Mr. Pownal’s, of 
which I have given him notice ; and I wish Mr. Burns would 
bring with him Mr. Watkins, or any body else that can give 
light into this unhappy and wicked affair. 

Till this morning I never in my life heard a single word of 
either the office itself, nor of any of the parties concerned. 
You will judge then of my astonishment, and indeed horror, 
at hearing of it to-day from Mr. Bradshaw. 

Iam, Madam, &c. 
GEORGE ONSLOW. 


Since writing of the above letters, more of this fraud has 
been detected, and further enquiry is making, in order to 
bring the actors in it to justice. A woman of the name of 
Smith, who lives near Broad Street, is the person who appears 
to be principally concerned in the fraud, the money being, it 
seems, for her use. 


The writer of the first address, now authorizing the printer 
to give Mr. Onslow his name, (which he did, and which was 
that of the Rev. John Horne,) once more attacked the Right 
Honourable Gentleman as follows, in the same paper, July 28. 


TO 


*190 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE GEORGE ONSLOW. 
GOOD SIR, 


; If with another 1xnocent man, Lord Holland, you 
were ambitious to add to the list of Mr. Walpole’s Right Hon- 
durable authors, you might, like him, have exposed ‘yourself 
with more temper, and have called names in better English. 

I should be sorry to libel you by mistaking your meaning, 
but the strange manner of wording your first sentence leaves — 
me at a loss to know whether you intend that my letter, or 
your own character is “ @ gross and infamous lie from be- 
ginning to end.” 

You may save yourself the expense of taking “ the best ad- 
vice in the law.’? Depend upon it you can never “ hope io. 
make an example of the author, when the publisher is unable or 
unwilling to give up his name.’ And you need not wait for a 
jury to determine, “ that robbing a man ts certainly a rob- 
bery.” But you should have considered some months since 
that it is the same thing whether the man be guilty or inno- 
cent; and whether he be robbed of his reputation or 
of his seat in parliament. 

In the Public Advertiser of Friday, July 14, there is a 
letter From you as well as ro you. If that is the scurrility 
you speak of, I agree with you that it has been treated with 
the contempt it deserves by all the world ; but how you can say 
that it has passed with zmpunity, I own I cannot conceive, un- 
less indeed you are of opinion with those hardened criminals 
who think that, because there is no corporal sufferance in it, 
the being gibbeted in chains and exposed as a spectacle makes 
no part of their punishment. 

The letter written by you to Mr. Wilkes tends more “ to 
wound your character and honour,’ than any other, and yet 
you pass it over in silence. But you shall, if you please, prove 
to the world that those who haye neither character nor honour, 

: may 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *191 


may still be wounded in a very tender part—their interest. 
And I believe Lord Hillsborough is too noble to suffer any 
Lord of the Treasury to prostitute his name and commission 
to bargains hke that I have exposed; but will, if he continues to 
preside at the Board of ‘Trade, resolutely insist either on such 
Lord’s full justification or dismission.—Hine tlle Lachryme. 

You “ defy the whole world to prove a single word. in my 
letter to be true ; or that the whole is not a barefaced, positive, 
and entire lie.” 'The language of the last part of the sentence 
is such as I can make no use of, and therefore I return it back 
on you to whom it belongs: The defiance in the first part, I 
accept, and will disprove what you say. 

My letter can only be false in one particular; for it con- 
tains only one affirmation, namely, that I heard the story I 
relate from very good authority. It then concludes with a 
question to you of—who is this Lord of the Treasury that so 
abhors corruption? Which question since you have answered, 
I too will gratify you, and in return for yours do hereby di- 
rect the printer to give you my name; which, bumble as it is, 
I should not consent to exchange with you in any other 
manner, 

Now, Sir, I do again affirm that I heard the story from the 
best authority: And that it is not my invention your own 
letter is a proof, for I might have heard it either from Mrs. 
Burns, or from Mr. Pownal, or Mr. Bradshaw, but I heard it 
from better authority. I go farther. I do still believe the story 
as I related it to be true; nor has any thing you have said 
convinced me to the contrary. I do not mean to charge you 
or ahy one; but since you have condescended to answer my 
former question, be kind enough to explain what follows. 

Mr. Pownal is secretary to the Board of Trade. Mr, Brad- 
shaw is secretary to the Treasury. Why did these two secre- 
taries come together to you? Were they sent by their Prin- 
cipals or not? Who first detected this very scandalous though 
very common traffic? Has not Lord Hillsborough that hon- 
our? And is not your exaggerated “ abhorrence of corrup- 

b tion, 


RIS? PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


tion, your astonishment, and indeed worror at this shocking 
scene of villany” vastly heightened by the calm, and there- 
fore unsuspected disapprobation of his Lordship; who does 
not seem to think with you that every whore should be hanged 
alive ; but only that they should be rurnep ovr of honest | 
company. 

How came you so instantly to entertain hopes of getting the 
money restored to Mrs. Burns ? when you declared, that « ¢lt 
that morning you never in your life heard a single word of either 
the office itself, nor of any of the par ties concerned.” Jonathan 
Wild used to return such answers; because he knew the theft 
was committed by some of his own gang. , 

You pretend to have given to the Public “ all the knowledge 
you have of this detestable fraud.” I cannot believe it, be- 
cause I find nothing in your letter on which to found your 
hopes of restoring the money to Mrs. Burns; and especially~ 
because in three weeks after this Letter, i. e. from June 27 to 
July 18, you have only discovered “ that Mrs. Smith appears to 
be principally concerned in this detestable fraud, the money be- 
tng, it seems, for her use.”? Sir, do you not know wHose wife Mrs. 
Smith is? And are you not acquainted with that gentleman ? 
Have you caused Mrs. Smith or any one else to be taken into 
custody? Have you taken “ the best advice in law, and are 
you determined to see if ajury will not do you and the public 
justice’ for this detestable fraud? Or is there yet left one crime 
which you abhor more -than corruption, and for which you 
reserve all your indignation ? But why this anger ? he that is 
innocent can easily prove himself to be so; 3 and should be 
thankful to those who give him the opportunity by making a 
story public. Malicious and false slander never acts in this 
open manner; but seeks the covert, and cautiously conceals 
itself from the party maligned, in order to prevent a justifica- 
tion. If any person have done your character an injury by a 
charge of corruption, they are most guilty who so thoroughly — 
‘believed you capable of that crime, as to pay a large sum of 

money 


TO Mr. H. S WOODFALL. *193 


money on the supposition: (an indignity which I protest I 
would not have offered to you, though you had negotiated the 
matter and given the promise yourself,) and yet I do not find’ 
you at all angry with them when they tell you their opinion 
of you without scruple. On the contrary, you pity Mrs. 
Barns in the kindest manner, which shews plainly that your 
honour is not like Cesar’s wife. Nay, you seem almost to doubt 
whether you “might beg the favour of Mr. Burns to meet you 
at your house in Curzon Street ;’’ that is, you humbly solicit 
Mr. Burns to do you the favour of accepting your assistance 
in the recovery of his money. Archbishop Laud thought to 
clear himself to posterity from all aspersions relative to popery, 
by inserting in his diary his refusal of a Cardinal’s hat; not 
perceiving the disgrace indelibly fixed on him by the offer. 
“ Mr. Burns has had the strongest recommendations from per- 
sons of undoubted veracity, and I believe on all accounts will 
be found to be perfectly capable and worthy the employment.” 
The letter from Mrs. Burns to you does by no means declare 
her to be an ideot. Colonel (whom you forbear to 
mention) is a man of sense, and well acquainted with the 
world. It is strange they should all. three believe you capable 
of this crime, which “ of all others you most hold in abhor- 
rence.’ Mr. Pownal, Mr. Bradshaw, and their principals, 
are supposed to know something of men and things, and there» 
fore I conclude they did not believe you concerned in this bu- 
siness : though I wonder much that, not believing it, both the 
secretaries should wait on you so seriously about it ; but per- 
haps they may think, that when honour and justice are not 
the rules of men’s actions, there is nothing incredible that may 
be for their advantage. But, Sir, whatever may be their sen- 
timents of you, I must intreat you to entertain no resentment 
to me, my opinion of your character would never suffer me 
to doubt your innocence. If indeed the charge of corruption 
had been brought against a low and ignorant debauchee, who, 

VOL. I. N without 


*194 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


without the gratifications and enjoyments of a gentleman, had 
wasted a noble patrimony amongst the. lowest prostitutes ; 
whose necessities had driven him to hawk about a reversion on 
the moderate terms of one thousand for two hundred ; whose . 
desperate situation had made him renounce his principles and 
desert his friends, those principles and those friends to which 
he stood indebted for his chief support; who for a paltry con- 
sideration had stabbed a DEAR OLD FRIEND, and violated the 
sacred rights of that grateful country that continued to the 
son the reward of his father’s services: if the charge had 
been brought against such an one, more fit to receive the pub- 
lic charity than to be trusted with the pisposaL and MANAGE- 
MENT of the public money, small proof would have been suf- 
ficient ; and instead of considering it as a crime the most to 
be abhorred, we might have suffered corruption to pass amongst 
the virtues of such a man. But yours, Sir, is a very different 
character, and situation. In the clear and unincumbered pos- 
session of the paternal estate with which your ancestors haye 
long been respectable ; with a pension of three thousand, and 
a place of one thousand a year ; with the certain prospect of 
Lord Onslow’s large fortune, which your prudence will not 
anticipate ; grateful to your country, faithful to your connex- 
ions, and firm to your principles, it ought to be as difficult to 
convict you of corruption, as a cardinal of fornication ; for 
which last purpose by the canon law, no less than seventy-two 
eye-witnesses are necessary. Thus, Sir, you see how far I am 
from casting any reflection on your integrity: however if 
notwithstanding all I have said you are still resolved to try: the 
determination of a jury, take one piece of advice from me: 
do not think of prosecuting me for an 1NsINUATION ; alter your 
charge before it comes upon record, to preventits being done ~ 
afterwards; for though Lord Mansfield did not know the dif- 
ference between the words when he substituted the one for the - 
other, we all know very well now that it is the TzNoR and not 
the 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *195 


the purrort that must convict fora libel, which indeed al- 
most every student in the law knew before. 
ANOTHER FREEHOLDER OF SURRY. 


- The names of Lord Hillsborough and Mr. Pownal having 
been introduced into the preceding letter, they thought proper 
to deny any other knowledge of Mr. Onslow’s supposed turpi- 
tude, than that proceeding from common report, and accord- 
ingly inserted the following letters in the Public Advertiser on 
the day after their respective dates. Long as this note is, we 
cannot, in justice to Mr. Onslow, here omit them. 


TO H. S. WOODFALL, 
Printer of the Public Advertiser. 

Havine observed in a newspaper of the 28th of July 
last, that it is msinuated that I have been the detector of a sup~ 
posed crime, imputed to the Right Honourable George On- 
slow, Esq. I do think it an act of common justice to declare, 
in this public manner, that I am entirely ignorant of the said 
supposed crime, and of all circumstances relative to it, except 
that I have heard the story mentioned in common conversation, 
and constantly treated as a calumny propagated to injure Mr. 
Onslow’s reputation, 

Hanover Square, HILLSBOROUGH. 
August 2, 1769. 


Ir having been suggested in a letter addressed to the 
Right Honourable George Onslow, Esq. published in a news- 
paper dated the 28th of July last, that I was, together with Mr- 
Bradshaw, sent to Mr. Onslow, on the subject of a scandalous 
transaction, in which Mr. Onslow is, in the said letter, stated 
to be concerned ; it is become necessary for me, in justice to 
that gentleman, to declare, that I never was sent to Mr. On- 
slow, on that or any other occasion; but having heard this 
story, I thought it but common justice to communicate it to 
Mr. Onslow, which I did through the channel of Mr. Brad- 
shaw. J. POWNAL. 


Whitehall, August 2, 1769. 
n2 An 


#196 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


An action for defamation against Mr. Horne, was brought 
by Mr. Onslow, agreeably to his menace, and the damages 
were laid at £10,000. It was tried before Mr, Justice Black- 
stone, at the Surry Assizes held at Kingston, April 6, 1770, 
and terminated in Mr. Onslow’s nonsuit, in consequence of 
the word pounds being inserted in the record, instead of the 
word pound. The cause was re-heard before Lord Chief Jus- 
tice Mansfield at the ensuing Summer Assizes, held at Guild- 
ford, when Mr. Onslow was again nonsuited. The trial is 
supposed to have cost Mr. Onslow upwards of £1500 in con- 
sequence of his having retained all the principal counsel upon 
the occasion. 


N° 6. 

SIR, Sunday, Aug. 6, 1769. 
Tue spirit of your letter’ convinces 

me that you are a much better writer than most 
of the people whose works you publish, Whe- 
ther you have guessed well or ill must be left to 
our future acquaintance. For the matter of 
assistance, be assured, that if a question should 
arise upon any writings of mine, you shall not 
want it. Yet yousee how things go, and I fear 
my assistance would not avail you much. For 
the other points of printing, &c. it does not de- 
pend on us at present. My own works you shall 
constantly have, and in point of money, be as- 
sured you never shall suffer. I wish the in- 


* The substance of Mr. Woedfall’s reply to Private Letter, 
No. 8. is not known, 


» 


TO Mr. H. 5. WOODFALL. M197 


closed' to be announced to-morrow conspicuously 
for Tuesday. I am not capable of writing any- 
thing more finished. 
Your friend, 
C, 


Your Veridicus 7 is Mr. Whitworth. I assure 
you I have not confided in him. 


Neds 

SIR, Wednesday night, Aug. 16, 1769. 
I nave been some days in the coun- 
try, and could not conveniently send for your 
letter until this night. Your correction was per- 
fectly right, the sense required it, and I am 
much obliged to you. When I spoke of znnwme- 
rable blunders, I meant Newberry’s pamphlet ; 
for I must confess that upon the whole your 

papers are very correctly printed. 
Do with my letters exactly what you please. 
I should think that, to make a better figure than 
Newberry, some others of my letters may be 
added, and so throw out a hint, that you have 
reason to suspect they are by the same author. 


¥ Junius, Letter xx. 
2 Veridicus was a frequent writer in the Public Advertiser, 
in the year 1769, and, as already observed in the Preliminary 
Essay, was Richard Whitworth, Esq. M.P. for Stafford. 


id 
’ 


*198 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


If you adopt this plan, I shall point out those 
which I would recommend; for you know, I do 
not, nor indeed have I time to give equal care 
to them all. ; 

I know Mr. Onslow perfectly. He is a false 
silly fellow. Depend upon it he will get nothing 
but shame by contending with Horne’. 

I believe I need not assure you, that I have 
never written in any other paper since I began 
with yours. As to Junius, I must wait for fresh 
matter, as this is a character which must be kept 
up with credit. Avoid prosecutions if you can ; 
but, above all things, avoid the Houses of Par. — 
liament,—there is no contending with them. At 
present you are safe, for this House of Com. 
mons has lost all dignity, and dare not do any 
thing. 

Adieu, 
C. 


‘ 


N° 8. 
(Private) é 
SIR, Sept. 10, 1769. 


Tue last letter you printed was idle 
and improper, and I assure you printed against 


* This contest is already related in the note to Private Let- 
ters, No. 5. 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. yg 


my own opinion’. The truth is, there are peo- 
ple about me, whom I would wish not to con- 
tradict, and who had rather see Junius in the 
papers ever so improperly than not at all. I wish 
it could be recalled. Suppose you were to say— 
We have some reason to suspect that the last letter 
signed Junius in this paper, was not written by 
the real Junius, though the observation escaped us 
at the time : or, if you can hit off any thing your- 
self more plausible, you will much oblige me, but 
without a positive assertion. Don’t let it be the 
same day with the enclosed. Begging your 
pardon for this trouble, I remain your friend and 
humble servant, ) 
C. 


N° 9, 
(Private) 
SIR, Friday night, Sept. 15, 1169. 
I sec you will to-morrow advertise 
Junius to another Duke in our next*. If Mon- 
day’s paper be engaged, then let it be for Tues- 


*Tt occurs in the Miscellaneous Letters, No. tix. In the 
genuine edition it was omitted for the reason which the author 
has here specified. 

2 This note accompanied the letter to his Grace the Duke of 
Bedford, Junius, No. xxi. and was announced agreeably to 
the above request in the Public Advertiser for September 18, 
1769. 


*200 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


day, but not advertised till Monday. You shall 
have it some time to-morrow night. It cannot 
be corrected and copied sooner. I mean to make 
it worth printing. 

Yours, 


N° 10. 
Thursday night, Oct. 5, 17169. 
I sxatt be glad to see the pacquet 
you speak of?. It cannot come from the Caven- 
dishes, though there be no end of the family. 
They would not be so silly as to put their arms on 
the cover. As to me, be assured that it is not in 
the nature of things, that they, or you, or any 
body else should ever know me, unless I make 
myself known. All arts or enquiries, or rewards 
would be equally ineffectual. 

As to you, it is clearly my opinion, that you 
have nothing to fear from the Duke of Bedford, 
I reserve some things expressly to awe him, in 
case he should think of bringing you before the 
House of Lords.—I am sure I can threaten him 
privately with such a storm, as would make him 
tremble even in his grave. You may send to- 
morrow to the same place without farther notice ; 
and if you have any thing of your own to com 


municate, I shall be glad to hear it. 
C. 


* The nature of this communication is not known. ° 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. - #201 


- 


N° Il. 

SIR, Nov. 8, 1769, 
I nave been out of town for three 
weeks, and, though I got your last, could not 
conveniently answerit. Be so good as to signify 
to A. B.C., either by word of mouth, or in your 
own hand, “ that his papers are received, and 
that I should have been ready to.do him the ser- 
vice he desires; but at present it would be quite 
useless to the parties, and might offend some 
persons who must not be offended.’? As to Mr. 

Mortimer’, only make him some civil excuse. 

I should be much obliged to you, if you 
would reprint (and in the front page, if not im- 
proper or inconvenient) a letter in the London 
Evening Post of last night, to the Duke of 
Grafton”. If it had not been anticipated, I 
should have touched upon the subject myself. 
However, it is not ill done, and it is very mate- 
rial that it should spread. The person alluded 
to is Lord Denbigh. I should think you might 
venture him with a D. As it stands few people 


* Mr. Mortimer was either at this time, or shortly afterwards, 
employed by Mr. Woodfall to procure intelligence for the 
Public Advertiser. 

* See Miscellaneous Letters, No, x1. 


*902 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


can guess who is meant. ‘The only thing that 
hinders my pushing the subject of my last letter, 
is really the fear of ruining that poor devil Gan- 
sel, and those other blockheads.—But as soon as 
a good subject offers. — Your types really wanted 
mending. 


C. 


No 
SIR, Novo. 12, 1769. 


I reTURN you the letters you sent me 
yesterday. A man who can neither write com- 
mon English, nor spell, is hardly worth attending 
to. It is probably a trap for me. I shouldbe glad, 
however, to know what the fool means.. If he 
writes again, open his letter, and if it contains 
any thing worth my knowing, send it: other- 
wise not. Instead of C. in the usual place, say 
only A Leiter when you have occasion to write 
to me again.—I shall understand you. — 


N° 13. 
Thursday, Nov. 16, 1769. 


As I do not chuse to answer for any 
body’s sins but my own, I must desire you to 
6 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *203 


say to-morrow, “* We can assure the Public that 
the letter, signed A. B. relative to the Duke of 
Rutland, is not written by the author of Ju- 
NIus".”’ 

I sometimes change my signature, but could 
have no reason to change the paper, especially 
for one that does not circulate half so much as 
yours. 

C. 

For the future, open all letters to me, and 
don’t send them, unless of importance.—I can 
give you light about Veridicus’*. 


N° 14. 
Sunday, Dec. 10, 1769. 


I woutp wish the paper (No. 2.) might 

be advertised for Tuesday’. 
By way of intelligence you may inform the 
Public that Mr. De la Fontaine, jor his secret 


* See Miscellaneous Letters, No. rx1. and note * appended 
to it. 

2 See note to Private Letters, No. 6. 

3 The paper here referred to is the Letter of Junius, No. 
xxxiv. The ensuing intelligence was published verbally in the 
Public Advertiser of the next day, Dec. 11. 


*204 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


services in the Alley, is appointed Barrack-master 
to the Savoy. 
I hope A. B. C. has got his papers again. 


N° 15. 

“SIR, December 12, 1769, 

You may tell Mr. A. B.C. that I did 
not receive his letter till last night, and have not 
had time to look into the paper annexed. I can- 
not at present understand what use I can make of 
it. It certainly shall not be an ungenerous one 
to him. If he or his counsel know how to act, I 
have saved him already, and really without in- 
tending it.—The facts are all literally true. Mr. 
Hine’s place is Customer at the port of Exeter. 
Colonel Burgoyne received 4000/. for it. To 
mend the matter, the money was raised by con- 
tribution, and the subscribers quartered upon 
Mr. Hine. Among the rest, one Doctor Brook, 
a physician at Exeter, has 100/. a year out of 
the salary. I think you might give these parti- 
culars in your own way to the public’. As to 


* The facts were given to the public by Junzus himself, in 
Letter xxx1v. Vol. II. p. 54, and are indeed touched upon- 
more than once in his subsequent letters. , 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *205 


yourself, I am convinced the ministry will not 
venture to attack you, they dare not submit to 
such an enquiry. If they do, shew no fear, but 
tell them plainly you will justify, and subpoena 
Mr. Hine, Burgoyne, and Bradshaw of the 
Treasury—that will silence them at once.—As 
to the House of Commons there may be more 
danger. But even there I am fully satisfied the 
ministry will exert themselves to quash such an 
inquiry, and on the other side, you will have 
friends :—but they have been so grossly abused 
on all sides, that they will hardly begin with 
you. 

Tell A. B. C. his paper shall be returned. 
I am now meditating a capital, and I hope a 
final piece ;—you shall hear of it shortly’. 


N° 16. 


Dec. 19, 1769. 

For material affection, for God’s sake 

read maternal; it is in the sixth paragraph’. 
The rest is excellently done. 


* He refers to the Letter to the King, Junius, No. xxxy. 
* Letter to the King, Junius, No. xxxv. 


*206 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


N° 17. 

SIR, Dec. 26, 1769. 
Wiru the inclosed alterations I should 

think our paper might appear’. As to em- 
bowelling, do whatever you think proper, pro- 
vided you leave it intelligible to vulgar capa- 
cities; but would not it be the shortest way at 
once to print it, in an anonymous pamphlet? 
judge for yourself. I enter sincerely into the 
anxiety of your situation, at the same time I am 
strongly inclined to think that you will not be 
called upon’. They cannot do it without sub- 
jecting Hine’s affair to an inquiry, which would 
be worse than death to the minister. As it is, 
they are more seriously stabbed with this last 
stroke than all the rest.—At any rate, stand 


* This paper is supposed to have been totally suppressed, 
the alterations introduced into it, not having perhaps satisfied 
the Printer of his safety in publishing it, as the signal of a 
private communication from him to the author appeared in 
the P, A. of the next day. 

* The Printer was threatened by the Minister with a pro- 
secution for publishing the letter of Junius, No. xxxu1. and 
the court of King’s Bench was actually moved on his behalf; but 
probably for the reason mentioned above, the threat was never 
executed. 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *207 


firm—(I mean with all the humble appearances 
of contrition)—if you trim or faulter, you will 
lose friends without gaining others. A.B.C. has 
done right in publishing his letter, it defends 
him more effectually than all his nonsense.— 
I believe I shall give him a lift, for I really 
think he has been punished infinitely beyond his 
merits.—I doubt much whether I shall ever have 
the pleasure of knowing you; but if things take 
the turn I expect, you shall know me by my 
works. 
C: 


N° 18. 


(Private) 
SIR, Jan. 12, 1770. 


I pestrep A.B,C. not to write to me 
until I gave him notice, he must therefore blame 
himself, if the detention of his papers has been 
inconvenient to him. Pray tell him this, and 
that he shall have them in a day or two. I 
shall also keep my promise to him', but to do 
it immediately would be useless to him, and un- 
adyiseable with respect to myself: I believe 


* See Junius, No. xxxi. and xxxv1. for an explanation of 


the fact and papers here referred to. 


*208 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


you may banish your fears. The information’ 
wil only be for a misdemeanour, and I am ad- 
vised that no jury, especially in these times, 
will find it. I suspect the channel, through 
which you have your intelligence. It will be 
carried on coldly. You must not write to me 
again, but be assured I will never desert you. 
I received your letters regularly, but it was im- 
possible to answer them sooner. You shall hear 
from me again shortly. 


N°? 1 QO, ~ 
(Private) 


SIR, Beginning of Feb. 17170. 
WHEN you consider to what excessive 

enmities I may be exposed, you will not wonder 
at my caution. I really have not known how to 
procure your last. If it be not of any great mo- 
ment I would wish you to recall it. If it be 
give mea hint. If your affair should come to a 
trial*, and you should be found guilty, you will 
then let me know what expense falls particularly 


* The information was for publishing the Letter to the King, 
Junius, No. xxxv. for the Pee of which see the author’s 
Preface, post p. 14. 

* The trial referred to is stated more fully in another part 
of this publication, and alludes to an information filed by the 


Attorney-General, in consequence of the printer’s having pub- 
lished 


TO Mr. H. §. WOODFALL. *209 


en yourself; for I understand you are engaged 
with other proprietors. Some way or other you 
shall be reimbursed. But seriously and bond 
Jide, 1 think it is impossible. 

C. 


N° 20. 

About Feb, 14, 1770. 
I wave carefully perused the informa- 
tion’. Itis so loose and ill-drawn, that I am 
persuaded Mr. De Grey could not have had 
a hand init. Their inserting the whole, proves 
they had no strong passages to fix on. [I still 
think it will not be tried. If it should, it is not 

possible for a jury to find you guilty. 


Nene he 
Saturday, March 17, 1770. 
To-morrow before twelve you shall 
have a Juntus, it will be absolutely necessary 
that it should be published on Monday. 


lished the letter of Junius to the King, No. xxxy. The copy 
of the information was procured in Hilary term, 1770, and the 
trial took place at Guildhall, June 13th following. The costs 
to the printer in defending himself, though ultimately suc- 
cessful, amounted to about 120/. a somewhat heavy fine for 
a person not found guilty. 

* The information here referred to, is that noticed in the 
note to the preceding letter. 


VOL. I. 0 


*210 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


Would it be possible to give notice of it to- 
night or to-mortow, by a dispersing a few hand- 
bills? Pray do whatever you think will answer 
this purpose best, for now is the crisis *. 


Cc. 


N22. 


Sunday, March t8, 1770. 


Tuis letter is written wide, and I sup- 
pose will not fill two columns. For God’s sake 
let it appear to-morrow. I hope you received 
my note of yesterday. 

Lord Chatham is determined to go to the 
Hall to support the Westminster remonstrance *. 
I have no doubt that we shall conquer them at 
last. 

C. 


* The letter referred to, is printed Junius, No. xxxvut. 

* Agreed upon at a general meeting of the electors of the 
city and liberty of Westminster, assembled in Westminster 
Hall, March 28, 1770, in consequence of their petition to his 
Majesty, requesting him to dissolve the Parliament which had 
expelled Mr. Wilkes, having been rejected. The following isa 
copy of the remonstrance :— 


‘‘The humble address, remonstrance, and petition of the 
electors of the city and liberty of Westminster, assembled in 
Westminster Hall the 28th day of March, 1770, 


“ We, your Majesty’s most dutiful and loyal subjects, the 
electors of the city and liberty of Westminster, having already 
presented our humble, but ineffectual, application to the throne, 

find 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL, *214 


find ourselves, by the misconduct of your Majesty’s ministers, 
in confederacy with many of our representatives, reduced to 
the necessity of again breaking in by our complaints upon your 
Majesty’s repose, or of acquiescing under grievances so NEW 
and so EXORBITANT, that none but those who patiently submit 
to them, can deserve to suffer them. 

« By the same secret and unhappy influence to which all our 
grievances have been originally owing, the redress of those 
grievances has been now prevented ; and the grievances them- 
selves have been repeatedly confirmed; with this additional 
circumstance of aggravation, that while the invaders of our 
rights remain the directors of your Majesty’s councils, the de- 
fenders of those rights have been dismissed from your Ma- 
jesty’s service—your Majesty having been advised by your 
ministers to remove from his employment for his vote in Par- 
liament, the highest officer of the law; because his principles 
suited ill with theirs, and his pure distribution of justice with 
their corrupt administration of it in the House of Commons. 

* We beg leave, therefore, again to represent to your Ma- 
jesty, that the House of Commons have struck at the most 
valuable liberties and franchises of all the electors of Great Bri- 
tain ; and by assuming to themselves a right of chusing, instead 
of receiving a member when chosen, by transferring to the re- 
presentative what belonged to the constituent, they have taken 
off from the dignity, and, we fear, impaired the authority of 
Parliament itself. ; 

«We presume again therefore humbly to implore from 
your Majesty, the only remedies which are any way propor- 
tioned to the nature of the evil: that you would be graciously 
pleased to dismiss for ever from your councils, those ministers 
who are ill-suited by their dispositions to preserve the princi- 
ples of a free, or by their capacities to direct the councils 
of a great and mighty kingdom ; and that by speedily dissolv- 
ing the present Parliament, your Majesty will shew, by your 
own example, and by their dissolution, that the rights of your 
people are to be inviolable, and that you will never necessitate 

02 so 


*212 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS : 


so many injured, and by such treatment exasperated subjects 
to continue to commit the care of their interests to those 
from whom they must withdraw their confidence ; to repose 
their invaluable privileges in the hands of those who have sacri_ 
ficed them ; and their trust in those who have betrayed it: 

* Your subjects look up with satisfaction to the powers which 
the constitution has vested in your Majesty—for it is upon 
them that they have placed their last dependance, and 
they trust, that the right of dissolving parliaments, which has,, 
ander former princes, so often answered the purposes of 
power, may under your Majesty prove an happy instrument of 
liberty. 

“ We find ourselves compelled to urge with the greater im- 
portunity, this our humble but earnest application to the 
throne, as every day seems to produce the confirmation of 
some old, or to threaten the introduction of some new injury. 
—We have the strongest reason to apprehend that the usur- 
pation begun by the House of Commons upon the right of 
electing, may be extended to the right of petitioning ; and 
that under the pretence of restraining the abuse of this right, 
it is meant to bring into disrepute, and to intimidate us from 
the exercise of the right itself. 

« But whatever may be the purposes of others, your Ma- 
jesty hath in your answer to the city of London, most gra- 
ciously declared, that you are always ready to receive the re- 
quests, and to listen to the complaints of your subjects. Your 
Majesty condescends likewise to esteem it a duty to secure to them 
the free enjoyment of those rights which your family were called 
to defend. 

« We rely, therefore, upon the Royal word thus given, that. 
our grievances will meet with full redress, and our complaints 
with the most favourable interpretation—that your Majesty. 
will never consider the arraignment of your ministers as a dis- 
respect to your person, a charge confined, by the very terms 
of it, to this House of Commons, as injurious to Parliament at 
large (the constitution of which we admire, and the abuse of. 

which 


TO Mr. H. S WOODFALL. *215 


N° 25. 


Friday Morn. Oct. 19, 1770. 

By your affected silence’, you encou- 
rage an idle opinion that I am the author of the 
Whig*, &c. though you very well know the con- 
trary. I neither admire the writer nor his idol. 
Thope you will soon set this matter right. 


(Private) 


Cae 


which is the very thing we lament) ; or a request for the dis- 
solution of Parliament, which your subjects have a right to 
make, and your Majesty to graut, as zrreconcileable to the prin- 
ciples of the constitution.” 

*« The Printer really did not arrecr a silence on a CERTAIN 

occasion, with a view of encouraging his readers or corres- 
pondents in an idle opinion: the motives for his conduct were, 
the fear of being thought impertinent by declaring (without 
direction) what he knew ; and the probability of rendering him- 
self liable to incur the displeasure of either of those who were 
pleased to favour him with their correspondence.’”’—Answer 
to Correspondents, Oct. 25, 1770. 
' * This letter was printed in the Public Advertiser under the 
signature of a Whig and an Englishman, Oct. 11,1770, and 
refers chiefly to the American Stamp Act, and the opinion of 
Lord Chatham, whom the author panegyrized in very warm 
terms. The same writer had already published several other 
letters in the same name: and the Printer, in compliance with 
the request of Junius, gave the following notice :— 


“ October 20. 


“‘ The Printer thinks it his duty to declare, that the Letters 
which have appeared in this paper under the signature of a 
Whig and an Englishman, were not written by the author of 
those signed Junius.” 


*214 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


N° 24, 


SIR, Monday Evening, Noo. 12,1770. 


Tue enclosed‘ though begun within 
these few days, has been greatly laboured. It 
is very correctly copied, and I beg you will 
take care that it be literally printed as it stands. 
I don’t think you run the least risque. We have 
got the rascal down, let us strangle him if it be 
possible. ‘This paper should properly have ap- 
peared to-morrow, but I could not compass it, so 
let it be announced to-morrow, and printed Wed- 
nesday. If you should have any fears, I en- 
treat you send it early enough to Miller, to ap- 
pear to-morrow night in the London Evening 
Post. In that case, you will oblige me by in- 
forming the Public to-morrow, in your own pa- 
per, that a real Junius will appear at night in 
the London.—Miller, I am sure, will have no 
scruples. | 

Lord Mansfield has thrown ministry into 
confusion, by suddenly resigning the office of 
Speaker of the House of Lords. 


* Letter xu. Junius to the Right Hon. Lord Mansfield. 


TO Me. H. S. WOQDFALL. *215 


N® 25. 

Wednesday Night, Nov. 21, 1770°. 

I sau be very glad to hear from your 

friend at Guildhall.—You may, if you think pro- 
per, give my compliments to him, and tell him, 
if it be possible, I will make use of any mate- 
rials he will give me. I will never rest till I 
have destroyed or expelled that wretch.—I wish 
you joy of yesterday.—The fellow truckles al- 


ready”. 
C. 


N° 206. 
Friday, 1 o’clock, Dec. 7, 1770, 


I wisH it were possible for you to print 
the enclosed to-morrow?, observe the Italics 
stricily where they are marked, Why don’t I 


* On the outside of this note was written, “the enclosed 
strikes deeper than you may imagine. C.”’ The Letter here 
referred to, is printed in the Miscellaneous Collection, No. 
Lxxvill, and is subscribed Testiculus. 

* In allusion to the unanimous judgment of the Court of 
King’s Bench, on the verdict for printing the Letter to the 
King,. given Novy. 20th, 1770; by which Lord Mansfield lost 
his object, and the Printer was granted a new Trial. 

* The paper here referred to, is Miscellaneous Letter, No. 
uxxix, signed Domitian, and was printed as requested. 


6 


*216 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


hear from Guildhall.—If he trifles with me, he 


shall hear of it’. 
oy 


N? 27. 
SIR, January.2, VTTI. 
I Haver received your mysterious epis- 
tle, I dare say a letter may safely be left at the 
same place; but you may change the direction 
to Mr. John Fretley. You need not advertise 
it. Yours, 


is 


N° 98. 

Jan. 16, 1771. 
You may assure the Public that a squa- 
dron of four ‘ships of the line is ordered to be 
got ready with all possible expedition for the East 
Indies. It is to be commanded by Commodore 
Spry. Without regarding the language of ig- 
norant or interested people, depend upon the 
assurance J give you, that every man in admi- 

nistration looks upon war as inevitable’. 


* The allusion is to a communication between the writer 
and Mr. Wilkes, which had been promised by the latter, but . 
had not been at this time received. . 

* Inserted in the Public Advertiser, January 17, nearly in 
the same words. The predicted war, however, did not fol- 


TO Mr. H. & WOODFALL. #217 


N° 99. 
Thursday, Jan. 31, W771. 


Tuer paper is extremely well printed, 
and has a great effect’; it is of the utmost im- 
portance to the public cause that the doors of 
the House of Lords should be opened on Tues- 
day next, perhaps the following may help to 
shame them into it. 

We hear that the ministry intend to move 
for opening the doors of both Houses of Parlia- 
ment on Tuesday next, in the usual manner, 
being desirous that the nation should be exactly 
informed of their whole conduct in the business 
of Falkland Island. 


low, but the preparation was actually made in the full belief, 
on the part of the cabinet themselves, that they would be 
compelled to go to war, by the existing temper of the peo- 
ple, irritated by the dishonourable negotiation concerning the 
Spanish seizure of Falkland Islands, and that they should be 
accused of indolence, and even cowardice, by the approach- 
ing Parliament. The session opened only four days after- 
wards, and the question of hostilities was so much upon a ba- 
lance, that in the lower House not fewer than 159 members 
divided against the Minister, upon the address of thanks and 
approbation, 

* It refers to Junius, No. xtu. For the nature of the sub- 
ject alluded to, see the Letter, and the Notes subjoined to it ; 
as also Miscellaneous Letters, No. uxxxvil. and the note in 
explanation. 


*218 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


(Next Day.) 


The nation expect, that on Tuesday next at 
least, both Houses will be open as usual, other- 
wise there will be too much reason to suspect, 
that the proceedings of the ministry have been 
such as will not bear a public discussion. 


We hear that the ministry intend to move, 
that no gentleman may be refused admittance 
into either House on Tuesday next. Lord 
North in particular thinks it touches his charac- 
ter, to have no part of his conduct concealed 
from the nation. 

The resolution of the ministry to move for 
opening both Houses on Tuesday next does 
them great honour. If they were to do other- 
wise, it would raise and justify suspicions very 
disadvantageous to their own reputation, and to 
the King’s honour. : 


Pray keep it up. C. 
N° 30. 
SIR, Tuesday Noon, Feb. 5, 1771. 


I pip not receive your letter until this 
day. I shall be very glad to hear what you have 
to communicate. 

C, 
You need not advertise any notice. 


TO Mr. H. 8S: WOODFALL. *219 


N° 3]. 


Monday, Feb. 11,1771. 

Our correspondence is attended with 

difficulties, yet I showd be glad to see the pa- 

per you mention; let it be left to-morrow with- 

out farther notice. I-am seriously of opinion 
that it will all end in smoke’. 


(Private) 


C. 


NCES Oa 

Monday, Feb. 18, 177}. 
Ir you are not grown too ministerial in 

your politics, I shall hope to see the enclosed 

announced to-morrow, and published on Wed- 

nesday”. 


* In reference to a notice from the Attorney-General for 
publishing Letter of Junrus, No. xi. but which was never 
farther proceeded upon. 

* This note accompanied No. xc. of the Miscellaneous Let- 
ters. The Printer had some scruples about publishing the 
whole of it; and in the Public Advertiser of Feb. 20, gave 
the usual mark, “ A Letter,’ that a private letter was in wait- 
ing upon this subject. In consequence of which the subse- 
quent note was received, dated Feb, 21. 


*220 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


N° 33. 
SIR, Feb. 21, 1771. 


Ir will be very difficult, if not imprac- 
ticable, for me to get your note. I presume it 
relates to Vindex'. I leave it to you to alter 
or omit as you think proper ;—or burn it.—I 


* The following is a copy of the letter which Mr, Woodfall 
addressed tothe author under the feigned name of Mr. John 
Fretley, and directed it to him at the New Exchange Coffee- 
house, in the Strand. 

Se SL is 

«To have deserved any portion of your good opi- 
nion, affords me no small degree of satisfaction—to preserve it 
shall be my constant endeavour. Always willing to oblige you 
as much as lies in my power, I, with great avidity, open your 
letters ; and sometimes, without reading the contents, pro- 
mise the publication.—Such is my present situation, and [hope 
you will not be offended at my declining to publish your Let- 
ter, as 1 am convinced the subject of it must, if I was to in- 
sert it, render me liable to very severe reprehension. That I 
am not grown too ministerial in my politics, every day’s paper 
will, I hope, sufficiently evince; though I rather hope some 
little regard to prudence will not by you be deemed squeam- 
ishness, or tend to lessen me in your opinion, as I shall ever 
think myself your 

« Much obliged humble Servant, 
Feb. 19, 1771. “ HENRY SAMPSON WOODFALL, 


« P.S. I shall wait your directions what to do with the pa- 
per in question, as I did not chuse to trust it under cover till 
I was further acquainted with your pleasure.” 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. | #22) 


think the argument about Gibraltar’, &c. is too 
good to be lost; as to the satirical part, I must 
tell you, (and with positive certainty,) that our 
gracious is as callous as stockfish to every 
thing but the reproach of cowardice. That alone 
is able to set the humours afloat. After a paper 
of that kind he won’t eat meat for a week’. 
You may rely upon it, the ministry are sick 
of prosecutions. ‘Those against Junius cost the 
Treasury above six thousand pounds, and after 
all they got nothing but disgrace. After the 
paper you have printed to-day, (signed Brutus?) 
one would think you feared nothing. For my 
own part I can very truly assure you that no- 
thing would afflict me more than to have drawn 


* For the explanation of this passage, see Miscellaneous 
Letters, No. xc. signed Vindex. 

? See Vol. II. p. 130, note. 

3 This Letter was addressed to Lord North, and as it is short, 
it is here transcribed, in proof that Junius was not severe in 
his opinion of it, nor singularly acrimonious in the phraseo- 
logy originally adopted by himself. 


TO THE RIGHT HON. LORD NORTH. 
MY LORD, 


I never address your Lordship but I feel the utmost 
horror and indignation ; for I consider you as a man totally re- 
gardless of your own honour, and the welfare of your country. 

The severity of a writer cannot be supposed to give your 
Lordship any uneasiness; a minister, whose schemes extend 
only to the exigencies of a year, but little regards his present 
or future reputation ; yet it is a duty we owe to the public to 

trace 


#222 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


you into a personal danger, because it admits of 
no recompence. A little expense is not to be 
regarded, and I hope these papers have reim- 
bursed you. I never will send you any thing 


trace out and expose the villain wherever we can perceive him 
working up the ruin of his country. . 

The choice of your friends is an eminent indication of your 
abilities and the blackness of your heart. 

Nam quicumq; impudicus, adulter, ganeo, alea, manu, ven- 
tre, bona patria laceravit, quique alienum a@s grande conflavit, 
immediately flies into your arms, and reimburses himself with 
the plunder of his country. 

Such are the guardians of our liberties and law : such are the 
men to whom our constitution is entrusted: and cannot we then, 
without any particular discernment, or any remarkable acute- 
ness of observation, trace out the origin of our present dis- 
contents ? 

It would be needless to follow you through that maze of vil- 
lany, in which you have long delighted to wander; I shall 
only attack those measures which occur te our more immediate 
consideration. : 

In what manner can you answer to your King for the scan= 
dalous prostitution of his crown and himself ? 

In what manner can you answer to your country for the 
total disregard of its welfare and dignity ? 

After all these formidable preparations ; after all this ex- 
pensive armament, you have made shift to patch up a tempo- 
rary ignominious compromise, at the trifling expense of about 
three millions, and the British honour. 

You imagine yourself sufficiently secured in the pursuit of 
your infamous intentions, and in the practice of every illegal 
and unconstitutional measure, by the countenance of the King. 
Rely not too much on that protection. His Majesty must not 
be suffered, through a blind and ridiculous attachment to an in- 

dividual, 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *223 


that Z think dangerous, but the risque’ is yours, 


and you must determine for yourself. 
Gy 
All the above is private. 


N° 34. 


Friday Noon, April 19, t77). 
I yore you will approve of announcing 
the inclosed Junius to-morrow’, and publishing 


dividual, or through a filial obedience, which then becomes 
criminal, to ruin and subvert his infatuated kingdoms. 

Your late acquisition of Lord Suffolk will not do you much 
honour : he is of the same stamp with the rest of your adhe- 
rents. His Lordship has given the world a very strong im- 
pression of his character ; and the disposition of his heart, by 
deserting his principal, and the cause in which he originally 
embarked, and by betraying that friendship, which in the 
more early and virtuous time of his life he had contracted. 
His former party need not regret the loss of him, for they are 
by his desertion disencumbered of a 

But I will now leave you, my Lord, to that mature insensi- 
bility which is only to be acquired by a steady perseverance, in 
infamy. 

Every principle of conscience you have long ago been hardy 
enough to discard. There has not been an action in the last 
two years of your life but what separately deserves imprison- 
ment. Thetime may come; and remember, my Lord, there 
is a very short period between a minister’s imprisonment and 
his grave. BRUTUS. 

* This peculiarity is the author’s. 
* Junius, Letter xiv. which was printed as requested. 


*294 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


it on Monday. If, for any reasons that do not 
occur to me, you should think it unadviseable 
to print it as it stands, I must entreat the favour 
of you to transmit it to Bingley, and satisfy him 
that it is a real Junrus, worth a North Briton 
Extraordinary. It will be impossible for me to 
have an opportunity of altering any part of it. 
I am, very truly, your friend, 


C. 


N° 35. 
Thursday, June 20, 1'771.- 
I am strangely partial to the enclosed *. 
It is finished with the utmost care. If I find 
myself mistaken in my judgment of this paper, 


I positively will never write again. 
C. 


Let it be announced to-morrow, Junius to 
the Duke of Grafton for Saturday. 

I think Wilkes has closed well. I hope he 
will keep his resolution not to write any more *. 


* Junius, No. xtix. to the Duke of Grafton. 

* In allusion to the dispute between Mr. Wilkes and Mr. 
Horne, conducted with great acrimony, till the former re- 
solved, as here advised, not to answer after a definite period 
any additional letters, in consequence of the total occupation 
of his time in his canvass for the office of Sheriff of London, for 
which he was then a candidate, and to which situation he ulti_ 

mately 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. #225 


N° 36. 
July 16, W771. 


To prevent any unfair use being made 
of the enclosed, I intreat you to keep a copy of 
it. Then seal and deliver it to Mr. Horne. 


I presume you know where he is to be found’. 
C. 


mately succeeded. The following is the conclusion of the 
letter here spoken of, which was, of course, addressed to Mr, 
Horne. 

* Whether you proceed, Sir, to a thirteenth, or a thirtieth let- 
ter, is to me a matter of the most entire indifference. You will 
no longer have me your correspondent. All the efforts of your 
malice and rancour cannot give me a moment’s disquietude. 
They will only torment your own breast. I am wholly indif- 
ferent about your sentiments of me, happy in the favourable 
opinion of many valuable friends, in the most honourable con- 
nections, both public and private, and in the prospect of ren- 
dering myself eminently useful to my country. Formerly in 
exile, when I was urbe patriaque extorris, and torn from every 
sacred tie of friendship, I have moistened my bread with my 
tears. The rest of my life I hope to enjoy my morsel at home 
in peace and cheerfulness, among those I love and honour, far 
from the malignant eye of the false friend, and the insidious 
hypocrite. 

‘Tam, Sir, 
« Your humble servant, 
JOHN WILKES.” 


* Note inclosing Junius’s Letter to the Rev, Mr. Horne, 
No, 11, 


VOL, I, Wi 


*226 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


N° 37. 
August 13, (771. 
Pray make an erratum for ultimate in 
the paragraph about the Duke of Grafton, it 
should be intimate, the rest is very correct’. If 
Mr. Horne answers this letter handsomely and 
in point, he shall be my great Apollo. 


N° 38. 
Wednesday Noon, Sept. 25, 1171. 
Tue enclosed is of such importance, 
so very material, that it must be given to the 
public immediately *. 

I will not advise ;—though I think you per- 
fectly safe :—all I say is that Z rely upon your 
care to have it printed either to-morrow in your 
own paper, or to-night in the Pacquet. 

I have not been able to get yours from that 
place, but you shall hear from me soon. 


* Junius, Letter 11v. This letter appeared on the 13th of 
August, 1771, though in the author’s edition it is by mistake 
dated the 15th. 

* The Letter referred to is Junius, No. rvs, and was printed 
in the P. A. Saturday, Sept, 28th, 1771. 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *227 


N° 39. 
About Nov. 5, 1771. 
Your reasons are very just about 
printing the Preface, &c. It is your own affair. 
Do what ever you think proper. I am con- 
vinced that the book will sell, and I suppose 
will make two volumes,—the type might be one 
size larger than Wheble’s. But of all this you are 
the best judge. I think you should give money 
to the waiters at that place to make them more 
attentive". The notes should be in smaller 
type. 

Pray find out, if you can, upon what day the 
jate Duke of Bedford was flogged on the course 

at Litchfield by Mr. Heston Homphrey ’*. 


N° 40. 
Friday, Nov. 8, 177k. 
Tur above to that Scotchman should 
be printed conspicuously to-morrow 3. At last 
I have concluded my great work, and I assure 
you with no small labour. I would have you 


* A coffee-house at which letters, &c. were left for Junius. 
2 See Junius, Letter xxi. 
3 See Letters of Junius, No. txvi. 


fry 


#208 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


begin to advertise immediately, and publish 
before the meeting of parliament ; let all my 
papers in defence of Junius be inserted’. I 
shall now supply you very fast with copy and 
notes. The paper and type should at least be as 
good as Wheble’s*. You must correct the press 
yourself, but I should be glad to see corrected 
proofs of the two first sheets. Shew the Dedica- 
tion and Preface to Mr. Wilkes, and if he has 
any material objection, let me know. I say ma- 
terial because of the difficulty of getting your 
letter. 
C. 
(Secret.) 
Beware of David Garrick ?, he was sent to 


pump you, and went directly to Richmond to 


* The Letters signed Philo-Junius: those numbered txm1. 
and Lxiv. and the extracts from the letters to the Supporters of 
the Bill of Rights. 

* The present respectable proprietor and publisher of the 
County Chronicle. 

3 Garrick had received a letter from Woodfall just before 
the above note of Junius was sent to the Printer, in which 
Garrick was told, in confidence, that there were some doubts 
whether Junius would continue to write much longer. Gar- 
rick flew with the intelligence to Mr. Ramus, one of the pages 
to the King, who immediately conveyed it to his Majesty, at 
that time residing at Richmond, and from the peculiar sources 
of information that were open to this extraordinary writer, 
Junius was apprized of the whole transaction on the ensuing 
morning, and wrote the above postscript, and the letter that 
follows it, in consequence. — 


TO Mr. H, S. WOODFALL. *229 


tell the King I should write no more. The De- 
dication must stand first. 


iN 
TO MR. DAVID GARRICK. 

Nov. 10, 1771. 

I am very exactly informed of your 
impertinent inquiries, and of the information 
you so busily sent to Richmond, and with what 
triumph and exultation it was received. I knew 
every particular of it the next day.—Now mark 
me, vagabond.—Keep to your pantomimes, or be 
assured you shall hear of it. Meddle no more, 
thou busy informer !—It is in my power to make 
you curse the hour in which you dared to inter- 


fere with 
JUNIUS *. 


* Mr. Garrick had, before this period, been threatened for 
his supposed political bias to the Court, as will appear from a 
charge which Mr. Horne brought forward against Mr, Wilkes, 
during the personal altercation which took place between them 
in the months of May and June preceding the date of this let- 
ter, and which is more particularly noticed in the note to 
Junius, Letter No. tur. Mr. Horne’s accusation is as follows :— 


« Whilst Mr. Wilkes was in the King’s Bench, he sent a 
threatening message to Mr. Garrick to forbid his playing the 
part of Hastings in the tragedy of Jane Shore ; on account of 
some lines in that play which Mr. Wilkes thought applicable 
to his own situation. Mr, Garrick complained exceedingly 

of 


*230 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


I would send the above to Garrick directly, 
but that I would avoid having this hand too 
commonly seen. Oblige me, then,.so much as 
to have it copied in any hand, and sent by the 
penny post, that is if you dislike sending it in 
your own writing.—I must be more cautious 
than ever. Iam sure I should not survive a 


of the cruelty of such an interdict, and wished to be permitted 
to proceed in his endeavours to please the public in the com- 
mon course of his profession, The patriot was inexorable ; 
and Mr. Garrick has not appeared in that character since, The 
Lord Chamberlain’s control by Act of Parliament over the 
pleasures of the public is exercised only over new plays.” ; 

To this charge Mr. Wilkes replied as follows, offering seve- 
ral justly merited compliments to the hitherto unrivalled 
genius of Mr. Garrick. 


©“ TO THE REV. MR. HORNE. 
STR, Prince’s Court, Thursday, June 6, 1771. 


« Your ninth Letter has relieved me not a little by 
taking me to the theatre, and recalling to my delighted re- 
membrance the amazing powers both of nature and art in the 
most wonderful genius that ever trod the English, or per- 
haps any stage, for his rival, Roscius, had a great defect, erat 
perversissimis oculis. You say ‘ whilst Mr. Wilkes was in the 
King’s Bench,’ &c. The whole of this pompous tale is, that 
some warm friends of Mr. Wilkes imagined that Mr. Garrick 
acted the part of Hastings at that time in a manner very 
different from what he had usually done, and marked too 
strongly some particular passages, unfavourable to the gene 
rous principles, and to the friends, of freedom. They talked 
of expressing their disapprobation in the theatre, at the next 
representation of Jane Shore, and likewise in the public prints. 

Mr. Wilkes 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. ~ #931 


discovery three days ; or, if I did, they would at- 
taint me by bill. Change to the Somerset Coffee- 
house, and let no mortal know the alteration. 
I am persuaded you are too honest a man to 


Mr. Wilkes therefore thought it prudent to state the case by 
two or three gentlemen to Mr. Garrick himself, and said, he 
feared the part of Hastings might bring on many disagreeable 
consequences to the great actor himself as well as to Mr. 
Wilkes and his connections, if continued in the manner then 
stated. Mr. Garrick received the friendly admonition in the 
most friendly way, but declared that the gentlemen, who had 
given Mr. Wilkes the account of his acting Hastings, had 
greatly mistaken, that he had not made the least alteration in 
the usual manner of acting that part on account of the politi- 
cal disputes of the times, but been solely guided by his own 
feelings: that he always had acted that part, and always 
should play it in the same manner, not however slavishly copy- 
ing himself, but with all the variety which from time to time 
his genius might dictate, preserving still the cast and spirit of 
the original character. Nothing more passed on this subject 
between Mr. Garrick and me, nor has that gentleman ever 
expressed the slightest displeasure against Mr. Wilkes, or 
his friends; so far has he been from complaining exceedingly 
of the cruelty of an interdict, which never existed. 

« Did it escape your memory, Sir, that one of the objec- 
tions made at that time by my friends, was the peculiar em- 
phasis Mr. Garrick was said to give to the following lines of 
Hastings, which some thought applicable to your situation :— ~ 

Til befall 
Such meddling Priests, who kindle up confusion, 
And vex the quiet world with their vain scruples ; 
By heaven ’tis done in perfect spight to peace, 
“ You say, ‘I think with half his (Mr. Garrick’s) merit I 


should 
7 


*232 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


contribute in any way to my destruction. Act 
honourably by me, and at a proper time you 
shall know me. 

I think the second page, with the widest 
lines, looks best. What is your essential reason 
for the change‘? I send you some more sheets. 
—I think the paper is not so good as Wheble’s,— 
but I may be mistaken—the type is good. The 


should have had twice his courage.’ If you mean theatrical 
merit, I can tell you of some parts, in which you would in- 
finitely exceed our great English actor. I mean all those parts. 
from which—fugiunt Pudor, Verumque, Fidesque. In quorum 
subeunt Locum Fraudes, Dolique, Insidieque, ce. &c. You 
would act, and be Iago with success. Mr. Garrick has that 
in him, which must ever prevent his acting well in that cha- 
racter. You have that zx you, which would make it easy and 
natural. Shylock too our Roscius must never attempt. The 
Christian Priest of Brentford has no vain scruples to prevent 
his undertaking and being applauded in that part. He might 
then talk of dying his black coat red with blood in an innocent 
way on the stage, which at Brentford inspired a savage horror, 

«“ The pleasing hours, which Mr, Garrick gave me at the 
King’s Bench, I have deducted from the injury of a long and 
cruel imprisonment, and I think of him as Cicero did of the 
great Roman actor, cum artifex ejusmodi sit, ut solus dignus 
videatur esse, qui in scena spectetur: tum vir ejusmodi est, ut 
solus dignus videatur, qui eo non accedat. 

“Tam, &c. 
“‘ JOHN WILKES.” 


*In allusion to a specimen of the intended genuine edition 
of the Letters, 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *233 


aspersions thrown upon my letter to the Bill of 
Rights* should be refuted by publication. 

Prevail upon Mr. Wilkes to let you have ex- 
tracts of my second and third lettersto him. It 
will make the book still more new. I would see 
them before they are printed, but keep this last 
to yourself*. 


N° 42. 

Nov. 11, 1771. 
Print the following as soon as you 

think proper, and at the head of your paper 3. 

I sent you three sheets of copy last night. 
When you send to me, instead of the usual 
signal, say, Vindewx shall be considered, and keep 

the alteration a secret to every body. 


* In the correspondence which took place between Mr: 
Wilkes and Junius, two of his letters related to the Bill of 
Rights Society, and were written in disapprobation of several of 
their measures. These letters were, in many respects, misre- 
presented to the public, and in his own opinion, purposely so 
by Mr. Horne. The explanatory extracts here referred to, 
were re-published at the close of the second volume of the 
genuine edition, and will be found in Vol. II. p. 444. The 
letters are given at length in the private correspondence of Ju- 
nius and Mr. Wilkes. 

* On the outside of this letter was written “ private and 
particular.” 

7 Certain paragraphs relating to the marriage of the late 
Duke of Cumberland, inserted in the Preliminary Essay, p, *36. 


¥234 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


N° 43. 
About Noo. 15, 1771. 
Ir you can find the date of the Duke 
of Bedford’s flogging, insert it in the note’ 
I think it was soon after the Westminster elec- 
tion.— The Philos are not to be placed as notes, 
except where I mention it particularly. I have 
no doubt of what you say about David Garrick— 
so drop the note. ‘The truth is, that in order to 
curry favour, he made himself a greater rascal 
than he was. Depend upon what I tell you ;— 
the King understood that he had found out the 
secret by his own cunning and activity.—As it 
is important to deter him from meddling, I de- 
sire you will tell him that I am aware of his prac- 
tices, and will certainly be revenged, if he does 
not desist. An appeal to the public from Junius 
would destroy him. 
Let me know whether Mr. Wilkes will give 
you the extracts *. ; 
I cannot proceed without answers to those 
seven queries. 
Think no more of Junius Americanus *.—Let 
him reprint his letters himself. He acts most 


™ See note to Letter xxi. of Juntus, post, p. 238. 
> Referred to in No. 41. 
3 Junius Americanus was a frequent writer in the Public 


Advertiser during the years 1769, 1770, and 1771. His let- 
ters 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *235 


dishonourably, in suffering Junrus to be so tra- 
duced ; but this falsehood will all revert upon 
Horne. In the mean time, I laugh at him. 

With submission I think it is not your inte- 
rest to declare that I have done. 

As to yourself, I really think you are in no 
danger. You are not the object, and punishing 
you (unless it answered the purpose of stopping 
the press) would be no gratification to the King. 
If undesignedly I should send you any thing 
you may think dangerous, judge for yourself, or 
take any opinion you think proper. You cannot 
offend or afflict me but by hazarding your own 
safety. They talk of farther informations, but 
they will always hold that language i terrorem. 

Don’t always use the same signal—any absurd 
Latin verse will answer the purpose '. 

Let me know about what time you may want 

more copy. 


ters chiefly related, as his signature readily suggests, to the 
disputes of the cabinet with the American colonies; and, in 
the course of his strictures, he attributed to Junius doctrines, 
in relation to their dependance on the legislature of Great 
Britain, wiiich he had never avowed, nor even inclined to. At 
this time there was some idea of publishing them collectively. 
They were written by a Dr. Charles Lee, as may be seen by a 
reference to the private correspondence of Junius and Mr, 
Wilkes. 
* See Preliminary Essay, page *41. 


*236 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


Upon reflection, I think it absolutely neces- 
sary to send that note to D.G.’ only say prac- 
tices instead of impertinent inquiries. I think you 
have no measures to keep with a man who could 
betray a confidential letter, for so base a purpose 
as pleasing * * * * * * KK * % He Me 
Tell me how long it may be before you want 
more copy.—I want rest most severely, and am 
going to find it in the country for a few days. 
Cumbriensis* has taken greatly. 


N° 44. 
Nov. 27, Vi71. 
THE postscript to Titus must be omitted’. 
—I did never question your understanding. Far 
otherwise. The Latin word simplex conveys to 


* David Garrick. See No. 41. 

* See Miscell. Letters, No. cir. Vol. III. p. 415. It was printed 
in the Public Advertiser, Nov. 13th, 1771, upon the marriage 
of the late Duke of Cumberland with Mrs. Horton, the sister 
of Col. Luttrell. 

His postscript addressed to Titus was added to his letter to 
Sir Wm. Draper, of Feb. 18, 1769. It engaged to give Titus 
a severe castigation, for having written with some degree of 
acrimony on the same side as the Knight of the Bath. The 
engagement, however, was not fulfilled under his signature of 
Junius, and hence the propriety of omitting the postscript in 
question in his own edition. See farther on this subject, note 
to Junius, Letter rv. post, p. 83. in which Titus’s letter is in- 
serted. 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *287 


me an amiable character, and never denotes 
folly. Though we may not be deficient in point 
of capacity, it is very possible that neither of us 
may be cunning enough for Mr. Garrick. But 
with a sound heart, be assured you are better 
gifted, even for worldly happiness, than if you 
had been cursed with the abilities of a Mansfield. 
After long experience of the world, I affirm be- 
fore God, I never knew a rogue who was not 
unhappy. 

Your account of my letter to the Bill of 
Rights astonishes me. I always thought the 
misrepresentation had been the work of Mr. 
Horne’. I will not trust myself with suspect- 
ing. ‘The remedy is in my own hands, but, for 
Mr. Wilkes’s honour, I wish it to come freely and 
honourably from himself. Publish nothing of 
mine until I have seen it. In the mean time be 
assured, that nothing can be more express, than 
my declaration against long parliaments.—Try 
Mr. Wilkes once more—speak for me in a most 
friendly but firm tone,—that I will not submit to 


* He here admits that he was mistaken in the conjecture that 
Horne had misrepresented the sentiments conveyed in his Let- 
ters to the Bill of Rights Society. Yet as he published the 
same opinion in his own edition, which is reprinted in Vol. IL. 
p- 444. he must afterwards have had fresh grounds for re-ac- 
crediting it, while in the present letter he seems more thar 
half to suspect Wilkes himself. 


6 


938 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


be any longer aspersed.—Between ourselves let 
me recommend it to you to be much upon your 
guard with patriots.—I fear your friend Jerry 
Dyson will lose his Irish pension’. Say received. 

In page 25, it should be the instead of your’, 
this is a woeful mistake ; —pray take care for the 
future—keep a page for errata. 

David Garrick has literally forced me to 
break my resolution of writing no more’. 


* He feared with reason. Jeremiah Dyson, Esq. was one of 
the lords of the admiralty, and in Feb. 1770, resigned his seat 
in favour of our late lamented foreign minister Mr. Fox, upon 
an Irish pension of £1500 per annum for his own life, and 
that of his three sons. The following is an account of the 
mode in which he lost it; c 

«“ In a committee of supply of the House of Commons of 
Treland, Noy. 25,1771, after a long debate the question was 
put, and, on a division, it was carried against the pension, by 
a majority of one, the numbers being for it 105, against it 106 ; 
on which the House immediately resolved, ‘ That the pension 
granted to Jeremiah Dyson, Esq, and his three sons, is an un- 
necessary Charge upon the establishment of Ireland, and ought 
not to be provided for.’ Ordered, ‘ That the said pension 
be struck off the list of pensioners upon the establishment of 
Ireland.” 

* In the opening of the Letters of Junius, No. im. it was 
originally printed in the genuine edition, “ Your defence,” &é. 
In the present edition the correction has been duly adopted, 

* The Letter alluded to is Junius, No, uxvn. 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *239 


N° ay. 
A5 eC week dL be 


TueEse papers are all in their exact 
order. ‘Take great care to keep themso. Ina 
few days more I shall have sent you all the copy. 
You must then take care of it yourself, except 
that I must see proof sheets of the Dedication 
and Preface, and these, if at all, I must see 
before the end of next week. You shall have 
the extract to go into the second volume, it will 
be a short one. Scavola, I see, is determined 
to make me an enemy to Lord Camden’. If it 
be not wilful malice, I beg you will signify to 
him, that when I originally mentioned Lord 
Camden’s declaration about the Corn Bill, it was 
without any view of discussing that doctrine, 
and only as an instance of a singular opinion 
maintained by a man of great learning and in- 
tegrity. Such an instance was necessary to the 
plan of my letter. I think he has in effect in- 
jured the man whom he meant to defend. 

When you send the above-mentioned proof 
sheets, return my own copy with them. 


° 
N AO. Dec. LO ea 


Tue inclosed completes all the materials 
that I can give you. I have done my part. Take 


* For further particulars of this dispute, see Letters of Ju- 
Nius, No, Lx. 


#240 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


care you do yours. ‘There are still two letters 
wanting, which J expect you will not fail to in- 
sert in their places. One is from Philo-Junius 
to Scevola about Lord Camden, the other to a 
friend of the people about pressing’. They 
must be in the course of October.—lI have no 
view but to serve you, and consequently have 
only to desire that the Dedication and Preface 
may be correct. Look to it. If you take it upon 
yourself, I will not forgive your suffering it to be 
spoiled. I weigh every word; and every altera- 
tion, in my eyes at least, is a blemish. 

I should not trouble you or myself about 
that blockhead Scevola, but that his absurd 
fiction of my being Lord Camden’s enemy has 
done harm.—Every fool can do mischief; there- 
fore signify to him what I said. 

Garrick has certainly betrayed himself, pro- 
bably * * * **'* * **'*) who makes it a rule to 
betray every body that confides in him. ‘That 
new disgrace of Mansfield is true?: what do 


* These two letters are numbered Philo-Junius, ux. and uxt. 

* The allusion is to a cause which was tried at the Summer 
Assizes for the county of Surrey, in 1771, Meares and Shepley 
against Ansell, for a trespass, in which his Lordship was sup- 
posed to have given a very partial charge in favour of the De- 
fendant, who hereby obtained a verdict. The Plaintiff’, how- 
ever, onthe Michaelmas Term following, moved’ the Court of 
Common Pleas for a new trial, on the ground of the misdirec- 
tion of the judge. The judge was called upon for his report, 
which 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *241 


you mean by affirming that the Dowager is 
better? I tell you that she suckles toads from 
morning till night’. I think I have now done 
my duty to you, so farewell. 


which he could not make without sending to the Plaintiff’s at- 
torney for his affidavit of the transaction.—He made his report 
at last, to which he subjoined that he was perfectly satisfied 
with the verdict of the jury—The Court of Common Pleas 
was Clearly of opinion, that Lord Mansfield had acted contrary 
to every principle of evidence both in law and equity, in ad- 
mitting Matthews and Hiscox to give parol evidence, contrary 
toa clear explicit agreement in writing, which they had at- 
tested—and asserted that, if such a practice was to obtain, it 
would go a great way towards subverting the Statute of Frauds 
and Perjuries, and would be a most dangerous inlet to perjury, 
and a means of rendering men’s properties very precarious and 
insecure. The Court therefore set aside the verdict, and or- 
dered a new trial; and it appeared to the Court to be so gross 
a misdirection, that it dispensed with the usual terms of pay- 
ment of costs. Although Lord Mansfield, in his direction to 
the jury, represented the trespasses as small and insignificant, 
and the action as litigious, the Court of Common Pleas said the 
trespasses were obstinate, wilful, and malicious. 

Mr. Rowlinson, the Plaintiff’s attorney, felt so dissatisfied 
with the conduct of Lord Mansfield upon the occasion, that in 
the same term a motion was made at his instigation, to have 
his name struck off the Rolls of the Court of King’s Bench, 
which was, after some expressions of astonishment, acquiesced 
in, when he was immediately admitted into the Common Pleas, 

* He refers to the following paragraph in the Public Adver- 
tiser for December 6, 1771 :— 

“ We have the pleasure to assure the public, from the most 
undoubted authority, that the repeated accounts of Her Royal 


VOL, I Q Highness 


¥242 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


N° 47. 

Dec. 171, 1771. 

Maxe your mind easy about me, I be- 

lieve you are an honest man, and I never am 
angry’.—Say to-morrow ‘ We are desired to 
inform Sceevola, that his private note was re- 
ceived with the most profound indifference and 
contempt*.” I see his design. The Duke of 


Highness the Princess Dowager of Wales being very ill, and 
her life in great danger, are entirely false, such reports being 
only calculated to promote the shameful spirit of gambling, by 
insurance on lives.”” The Princess Dowager was at this time 
afflicted with a cancer, and died on the 8th of January in the 
following year. 

* He had received a note from Mr. Woodfall, vindicating 
himself from any improper motive in his communication to 
Mr. Garrick, which has been already referred to. 

* The information to Scavola was duly communicated in 
the Public Advertiser: and the flippancy of this writer’s style, 
and the coquetry of his political attachments, fully merited the 
contempt here expressed for him. His first two or three letters 
were written as an apology for certain inconsiderate expressions 
which had fallen from Lord Camden, and were not deficient in 
merit. They were noticed by our author under the auxiliary 
signature of Philo-Junius, in Lutrers of Junius, No. Lx. 
Oct. 15, 1771. Scavola, whoever he was, became conceited 
by the attention thus bestowed upon him; and, more especially, 
as some other correspondent of the Public Advertiser had er- 
roneously ascribed his letters to Lord Camden himself. To 
prove, however, that he was not Lord Camden, he now, in 
the midst of his general admiration of his Lordship’s political 
character, attacks him upon a variety of, what he ventures to 

denominate, 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *243 


Grafton has been long labouring to detach Cam- 
den. This Scevola is the wretchedest of all 
fools, and dirty knave. 

Upon no accounts, nor for any reason what- 
soever are you to write to me, until I give you 
notice. 

When the book is finished, let me have a sett 
bound in vellum, gilt, and lettered Junius I. II. 
as handsomely as you can—the edges gilt—let 
the sheets be well dried before binding.—I must 
also have two setts in blue paper covers. This is 
all the fee I shall ever desire of you. I think 
you ought not to publish before the second 
week in January. 

The London Packet is not worth our notice. 
I suspect Garrick, and I would have you hint so 
to him. 


N° A8. 
January 6, 1172. 
I wAvE a thing to mention to you in 
great confidence. I expect your assistance, and 
rely upon your secrecy. 


denominate, capital errors, and that with, at least, as much 
violence as any of his Lordship’s avowed adversaries of the 
day. In few words he became a perpetual, wearisome, and 
contemptible scribbler; and well deserved the chastisement 
here given him by Junius. 


e@ 2 


*244 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


There is a long paper ready for publication, 
but which must not appear until the morning of 
the meeting of parliament, nor be announced in 
any shape whatsoever’. Much depends upon its 
appearing unexpectedly. If you receive it on 
the 8th or 9th instant, can you in a day or two 
have it composed, and two proof sheets struck 
off and sent me; and can you keep the press 
standing ready for the Public Advertiser of the 
21st, and can all this be done with such secrecy 
that none of your people shall know what is 
going forward, except the composer, and can 
you rely on fis fidelity ? Consider of it, and, if 
it be possible, say yEs, in your paper to-morrow. 

I think it will take four full columns at the 
least, but I undertake that it shall sell.—It is 
essential that I should have a proof sheet, and 
correct it myself. 

Let me know if the books are ready that I 
may tell you what to do with them. 


N° 49, 
Saturday, January 11, 1172. 


Your failing to send me the proofs, as 
you engaged to do, disappoints and distresses 


1 Letter to Lord Mansfield. Junius, No. xvii. 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *Q45 


me extremely’. It is not merely to correct the 
press (though even that is of consequence), but 
for another most material purpose*. ‘This will 
be entirely defeated, if you do not let me have 
the two proofs on Monday morning. 

The paper itself, is, in my opinion, of the 
highest stile of Junius, and cannot fail to sell.— 
My reason for not announcing it was that the 
party might have no time to concert his mea- 
sures with the Ministry. But, upon reflection, 
I think it may answer better (in order to excite 
attention) to advertise it the day before, Junius 
to Lord Chief Justice Mansfield to-morrow. 

Quoting from memory, I have made a mis- 
take about Blackstone, where I say that he con- 
Jines the power to the Court, and does not extend 
it to the Judges separately. Those lines must 
be omitted.—The rest is right.—If you have 
any regard for me or for the cause, let nothing 
hinder your sending the proofs on Monday. 


N° 50. 
January 16, 1772. 
I reTuRN you the proof, with the errata, 
which you will be so good as to correct care- 


* Of Junius No. txviu. referred to in the preceding letter. 
* He seems to allude to a promise, or expectation, of legak 
assistance from some friendly quarter. 


*246 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


fully. Ihave the greatest reason to be pleased 
with your care and attention, and wish it were 
in my power to render you some essential ser- 
vice.—Announce it on Monday. 


N° Ol. 


(Private) 
Saturday, Jan. 18, 1772. 


Tue gentleman’ who transacts the con- 
veyancing part of our correspondence tells me 
there was much difficulty last night. For this 
reason, and because it could be no way material 
for me to see a paper on Saturday which is to 
appear on Monday, I resolved not to send for 
it.—Your hint of this morning, I suppose relates 
to this *.—-I am truly concerned to see that the 
publication of the book is so long delayed.— 
It ought to have appeared before the meeting 
of Parliament.—By no means would I have you 
insert this long letter, if it made more than the 
difference of two days in the publication. Believe 
me the delay is a real injury to the cause. The 
letter to M.? may come into a new edition. 


~* OF this gentleman nothing is known. 

 « Mutare necessarium est.” Answer to correspondents, lea, 
18th, 1772. 

3 Letters of Junius, No, txvu. 


6 


TO Mr. H. 8S. WOODFALL. #247 


Mr. Wilkes seems not to know that Morris 
published that letter'.—I think you should set 
him right. 


N° 52. 

January 25, 1172. 

Havine nothing better to do, I pro- 

pose to entertain myself and the public, with 
Poeun ee eee sk * Oe # Bar. 
rington*. He has just appointed a French 
broker his deputy, for no reason but his rela- 
tion to Bradshaw +. I hear from all quarters, 
that it is looked upon as a most impudent insult 
to the Army.—Be careful not to have it known 


* Mr. Robert Morris was a barrister, who took a very active 
part in the city disputes, and on the popular side, and was se- 
cretary to the Bill of Rights Society. For a further account of 
him, see note to Miscellaneous Letters, No. xcim. Vol. II. 
p. 358. He occasionally wrote in the P..A. The publication 
of the letter alluded to, Wilkes had attributed to a Mr. Caw- 
dron. See Private Letter, No. 82. 

Lord Barrington was at this time Secretary for the War- 
Department. He had uniformly exhibited himself unfriendly 
to the popular cause, and when in the lower House, made the 
motion in 1769, for expelling Wilkes, which was seconded by 
Rigby. The letter that accompanied this note is numbered 
cy. in the Miscellaneous Collection, and the signature of Ju- 
nius will be found to be exchanged for that of Veteran. 

3 Mr. Chamier, brother in law to Bradshaw, the Duke of 
Grafton’s private Secretary. See some notice taken of him 
in No. txxxi. Vol, III. p. 306. of the Miscellaneous Letters— 
signature Domitian, date December 24, 1770, 


*248 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


to come from me. Such an insignificant crea- 
ture is not worth the generous rage of Junius, I 
am impatient for the book, 


N° 53. 

Monday, Feb. 3, 1772. 
I conress I do not see the use of the 
table of contents. I think it will be endless 
and answer no purpose ;—An index of proper 
names and materials would in my opinion be 
sufficient.—You may safely defy the malice of 
Mr. Wheble*. Whoever buys such a book will 
naturally prefer the Author’s Edition, and I think 
it will always be a book for sale, I really am 
in no hurry about that sett, Purling, I hear, is 
to come in for Eastlow.—A sure proof of the 
connection between him and government’: I 
would have you open any thing that may be 
brought to you for me (except from Mr. Wilkes) 

—and not forward it unless it be material. 


That large roll contained a Pamphlet. 


* Wheble had already printed an imperfect edition of the 


Letters of Junius. 
? Jobn Purling, Esq. one of the directors of the East India 


Company, who took a very active part in their affairs, at that 


period, 
4 


TO Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *249 


N° 54. 
Monday, Feb. 10, 1772. 
Ir you have any thing to communicate, 
you may send it to the original place for once 
N. E. C.—and mention any new place you think 
proper, West of Temple Bar. ‘The delay of 
the book spoils every thing. 


N° 50. 

Monday Night, Feb. 11, 1172. 
SurELy you have misjudged it very 
much about the book. I could not have con- 
ceived it possible that you could protract the 
publication so long.—At this time, particu- 
larly before Mr. Sawbridge’s motion’, it would 
have been of singular use. You have trifled too 
long with the public expectation.—At a certain 
point of time the appetite palls.—I fear you have 
already lost the seasonw—The book, I am sure, 
will lose the greatest part of the effect I expected 

from it.—But I have done. 


N° 50. 
About Feb. 22, 1772. 
I po you the justice to believe that 
the delay has been unavoidable. The expedient 
* In favour of triennial parliaments, as already noticed in a 
note to the Preliminary Dissertation. 


*250 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


you propose of printing the Dedication and Pre- 
face in the P. A. is unadyisable. The attention 
of the public would then be quite lost to the 
book itself. I think your rivals will be disap- 
pointed. Nobody will apply to them when they 
can be supplied at the fountain head. I hope 
you are too forward to have any room for that 
letter of Domitian’, otherwise it is merely in- 
different. The Latin I thought much superior 
to the English.—The intended bill, in conse- 
quence of the message, will be a most dangerous 
innovation in the internal policy of this coun- 
try*.—What an abandoned prostituted ideot is 
your Lord Mayor?. The shameful mismanage- 
~ ment which brought him into office, gave me the 
first and an unconquerable disgust.—AIl I can 
now say is make haste with the book.— 
C. 


The appointment of this broker* I am told 
gives universal disgust. That * * * * * * * 
* * * * * *5 would never have taken a step 
apparently so absurd, if there were not some 


* This letter, for the reason here stated, was not printed in 
the genuine edition. 

* The bill alluded to is the Royal Marriage Act. 

3 In allusion to the partial and impolitic conduct of Mr. 
Nash, at this time Lord Mayor, upon the common questions 
of city politics brought before him, especially in refusing to call 
a common hall, agreeably toa request very generally signified 
to him for this purpose. 

* Chamier. 5 Lord Barrington. 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *251 


wicked design in it more than we are aware of. 
At any rate the broker should be run down. 
That at least is due to his master. 


N° 57. 

Saturday, Feb. 29, 1772. 

Iam very glad to see that the book 

will be out before Sawbridge’s motion. There 
is no occasion for a mark of admiration at the 
end of the motto. But it is of no moment 
whatsoever. When you see Mr. W. pray return 
him my thanks for the trouble he has taken. I 
wish he had taken more*.—I should be glad 
to have a sett, sewed, left at the same place to- 


morrow evening. Let it be well sealed up. 
cx 


N° 58. 
Tuesday, March 3, 1'172. 
Your letter was twice refused last 
night, and the waiter as often attempted to see 
the person who sent for it.—I was impatient to 
see the book, and think I had a right to that 
attention a little before the general publica- 
* Mr. Wilkes, at the request of Junius, perused and re- 


vised the Dedication and Preface to the genuine edition of the 
letters, 


#959 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


tion’. When I desired to have two setts sewed 
and one bound in vellum, it was not from a 
principle of ceconomy. I despise such little 
savings, and shall still be a purchaser.—If I was 
to buy as many setts as I want, it would be 
remarked. 

Pray let the two setts be well parcelled up 
and left at the bar of Munday’s Coffee-house, 
Maiden Lane, with the same direction, and 
with orders to be delivered to a chairman who 
will ask for them in the course of to-morrow 
evening. Farewell. 


N° 59. 
Thursday, March 5, 1772. 


Your letters with the books are come 
safe to hand. ‘The difficulty of corresponding 
arises from situation, and necessity to which we 
must submit. Be assured I will not give you 
more trouble than is unavoidable.—If the vellum 
books are not yet bound, I would wait for the 
index. If they are, let me know bya line in the 
P. A.—When they are ready, they may safely 
be left at the same place as last night. 


* The genuine edition of the letters was published on the 
third of March, 1772, 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *253 


On your account I was alarmed at the price 
of the book.—But of the sale of books I am no 
judge, and can only pray for your success.— 
What you say about the profits ' is very hand- 
some. I like to deal with such men. As for 
myself, be assured that I am far above all pecu- 
niary views, and no other person I think has 
any claim to share with you. Make the most of 
it therefore, and let all your views in life be di- 
rected to a solid, however moderate independ- 
ence. Without itno man can be happy, nor 
even honest.— 

If Isaw any prospect of uniting the city 
once more, I would readily continue to labour in 
the vineyard. Whenever Mr. Wilkes can tell 
me that such an union is in prospect, he shall 
hear of me. 

Quod sé quis existimat me aut voluntate esse 
mutata, aut delilitatéa virtute, aut animo fracto, 
wehementer errat. Farewell. 


In the Preface, p. 20, line 7, read unseasonable 
p. 26, — 18, — accuracy’. 


* Woodfall made Junius an offer of half the profits of the 
book, or if he should decline accepting them for himself, to 
give a sum of money equal to their amount, to any charity 
which he should chuse to name. 

* These errors are corrected in the present edition, 


*204 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


N° 60. 
May 4, 1172. 
Ir pars pro toto’ be meant for me, I 
must beg the favour of you to recall it. At pre- 
sent it would be difficult for me to receive it.— 
When the books are ready, a Latin verse will be 
sufficient. 


N° 61. 

Sunday, May 3, 1772. 
Tam in no manner of hurry about the 
books. I hope the sale has answered.—lI think 
it will always be a saleable book. The inclosed 
is fact, and I wish it could be printed to-mor- 
row. It is not worth announcing. ‘The pro- 
ceedings of this wretch are unaccountable. 
There must be some mystery in it which I hope 
will soon be discovered to his confusion.—Next 
to the Duke of Grafton, I verily believe that the 
blackest heart in the kingdom belongs to Lord 

Barrington ’*. 

* A line in the Printer’s notice to correspondents, introduc- 
ed as in signal that a letter, or parcel, was in waiting for him 
at the usual place. ’ 

* This note accompanied the letter signed Scotus, addressed 
to his Lordship, and was printed as requested. See Miscella- 


neous Letters, No. cx1, The Autograph is still in the hands of 
the proprietor of this edition. 


TO Mr. H. S. WOODFALL. *255 


N° 62. 
May 10, 1772. 
Pray let this be announced, Memoirs 
of Lord Barrington in our neat’. Keep the 
author a secret. 


N° 63. 

January 19, 1773. 
I wave seen the signals thrown out for 
your old friend and correspondent. Be assured 
that I have had good reason for not complying 
with them. In the present state of things, if I 
were to write again, I must be as silly as any of 
the horned cattle, that run mad through the city, 
or as any of your wise aldermen. I meant the 
cause and the public. Both are gtven up. I feel 
for the honour of this country, when I see that 
there are not ten men in it, who will unite and 
stand together upon any one question. But it 

is all alike, vile and contemptible. 
You have never flinched that I know of; and 
I shall always rejoice to hear of your prosperity. 
If you have any thing to communicate (of 


* The annunciation under this title, appeared in the notice 
to correspondents, Public Advertiser, May 11, and the Memoirs 
were printed in a letter bearing the signature of Nemesis, May 
12. See Miscellaneous Letters, No, cx. 


*256 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


moment to yourself) you may use the last ad- 
dress, and give a hint’. 


N° 64. 
SIR, 

-I wave troubled you with the perusal 
of two letters, as that of the prior date accounts 
for the delay of not sending the books sooner ; 
and this acquaints you that I did not get them 
out of the bookbinder’s hands till yesterday ; 
nor though I desired them to be finished in the 
most elegant manner possible, are they done so 
well as I wished. But, Sir, if the manner of the 
contents and index are not agreeable to you, 
they shall be done over again according to any 
directions you shall please to favour me with.— 
With respect to City politics, I fear the breach 
is too wide ever to be again closed, and even my 
friend Mr. Wilkes lost some of his wonted cool- 
ness at the late election on Sawbridge, Oliver, 
&c. scratching against him*. I hope you will 


* This letter was thus noticed in the answer to correspon- 
dents inthe P. A. March 8, 1773. “ The letter from an oLp 
FRIEND and CORRESPONDENT, dated Jan. 19. came safe to hand, 
and his directions are strictly followed. Quod si quis existimat, 
aut, &c.” 

* Mr. Wilkes and Mr. Townshend were, after a sharp con- 
test, returned to the courtof Aldermen for them to make their 

election 


Mr. H. 8. WOODFALL. *257 


believe that however agreeable to me it must 
be to be honoured with your correspondence, I 
should never entertain the most distant wish 
that one ray of your splendour should be dimi- 
nished by your continuing to write.—Mr. Wilkes 
indeed mentioned to me the other day that he 
thought the East India Company a proper sub- 
ject; and asked if I could communicate any 
thing to you, to which my reply was that I could 
not tell, (as I did not know whether you might 
chuse to be intruded upon.) You will perceive 
by the papers that two persons have forced 
themselves upon us, who, without a tythe of 
Mr. Wilkes’s abilities, imagine the public will 
look up to them as their deliverers; but they 
are most egregiously mistaken, as every one 
who possesses a grain of common sense hold 
them in almost utter contempt. You will pro- 
bably guess who I mean, and were I capable of 
drawing a parallel, I should borrow some part 
of it from Shakespeare’s Iago and Roderigo. 


election of one of these gentlemen to the mayoralty for the 
year 1772, when their choice fell upon Mr. Alderman Town- 
shend, in consequence of Sawbridge and Oliver scratching 
against Wilkes. The candidates for that office, with the num- 
ber which they polled, were as under: 


Mr. Alderman Wilkes — 2301 
Townshend. — 2278 
Hallifax — 21296 
Shakespeare — 1912 


VOL. I. R 


*258 PRIVATE LETTERS OF JUNIUS 


Should it please the Almighty to spare your life 
till the next general election, and I should at 
that time exist, I shall hope you will deign to 
instruct me for whom I should give my vote, as 
my wish is to be represented by the most honest 
and able, and I know there cannot be any one 
who is so fit to judge as yourself. I have no 
connexions to warp me, nor am I acquainted 
with but one person who would speak to me on 
the subject, and that gentleman is, I believe, a 
true friend to the real good of his country; I 
mean Mr. Glover, the author of Leonidas. AsI 
thought serjeant Glyn deserving of something 
more than the mere fees of his profession, for 
the pains he took upon my trial, I have made a 
purchase of a small freehold at Brentford by way 
of qualification, in order to convince him, if he 
should offer himself at the next election, when- 
ever it should happen, that I hold his services in 
grateful remembrance. But I am since informed 
that it is not his intention, and that Lord Percy 
is to be joined with Sir W. B. Proctor, who is 
to be supported by the Duke of Northumber- 
land’s interest.—I have heard much of a most 
trimming letter from Mr. Stewart to Lord Mans- 
field on the Douglas cause, but cannot possibly 
get a copy, which probably would be a good 
letter to print.— 

If, Sir, you should not disapprove of the Con- 


4 
x 


TO Mr. H.S. WOODFALL, *259 


tents and Index, I thought of advertising them 
in the manner of the enclosed form, if I have 
your permission so to do, but not otherwise.— 
May I beg the favour of a line in answer? Believe 
me, Sir, to be, with gratitude and respect, 


Your much obliged 


humble servant to command, 


HENRY SAMPSON WOODFALL. 


Sunday, March 7, 1773. 


ead DETECT, Bit eAcOTs 


“enoskt onsite byeto, thas 1 cabal 
ied bi Te «i midt bordlaito:. add Fou 
_seberscdto tow jad ab 03 oath 

evoilath isaweea.rts oetibasc be pba vant aeht ip 

doaqeet bin, shuren iin og 


ide ae ~y vod yt of ' * 
tec, Popes wor. 

, Per a eon 

yp. ch) Tfiv Se Ses 


‘ 
eh Ag 
eit ueee bla) 


‘ 


PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE 


BETWEEN 


JUNIUS AND MR. WILKES. 


‘s 4 ¥ / 4 Fs, % 4 
a ot 
SO", ACMOTALAOD, AE ‘* 
, ey aiswiea a 7 
PRR AW: HE 3 PA, oS | 
Ot Pikes ont Jow ® wine 


Oa o ¢ : . 
ot tse viet | } > t wiérs} 1ita * ity 
7 +i 
t’4 rf ‘hes thls 34 a oe 
: rite FSS Scr Let 7) 
i " , 
i aa aint << 


(OAs WIGGG W Vatt SOY ork 


Meh fe wateatize: Beds terials fhe balg ag 
Seite at ssa gle i 


Pe as. 


PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE 


BETWEEN 


JUNIUS AND MR. WILKES. 


TO JOHN WILKES, ESQ. 


London, 2\st August, 1771". 


I presuME, Sir, you are satisfied that 
IT mean you well, and that it is not necessary to 
assure you that while you adhere to the resolu- 
tion of depending only upon the public favour, 
(which, if you have half the understanding I 
attribute to you, you never can depart from) 
you may rely upon my utmost assistance. What- 


* On this letter is written in Mr, Wilkes’s own hand, the fol- 
lowing memorandum : 
« August 21, 1771. 
« Received on Wednesday noon by a chairman, who said 
he brought it from a gentleman whom he saw in Lancaster 
Court, in the Strand. TAWwe. 


#264 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


ever imaginary views may be ascribed to the 
author, it must always make part of Junius’s 
plan to support Mr. Wilkes while he makes 
common cause with the people. I would en- 
gage your favourable attention to what I am 
going to say to you; and I intreat you not to 
be too hasty in concluding, from the apparent 
tendency of this letter, to any possible interests 
or connexions of my own. It is a very common 
mistake in judgment, and a very dangerous 
one in conduct, first to look for nothing in the 
argument proposed to us, but the motive of the 
man who uses it, and then to measure the truth 
of his argument by the motive we have assigned 
to him. With regard to me, Sir, any refine- 
ment in this way would assuredly mislead you; 
and though Ido not disclaim the idea of some 
personal views to future honour and advantage, 
(you would not believe me if I did) yet I can 
truly affirm, that neither are they little in them- 
selves, nor can they by any possible CRISHNEE 
be collected from my writings. 

Mr. Horne, after doing much mischief, is 
now, I think, completely defeated and disarmed. 
The author of the late unhappy divisions in the 
city is removed.—Why should we suffer his 
works to live after him? In this view, I confess, 
I am vindictive, and would visit his sins upon 
his children. I would punish him in his offspring, 

7 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. %265 


by repairing the breaches he has made.—Con- 
vinced that Iam speaking to a man who has 
spirit enough to act if his judgment be satis- 
fied, I will not scruple to declare at once, that 
Mr. Sawbridge ought to be Lord Mayor, and 
that he ought to owe it to your first motion, and 
to the exertion of all your credit in the city.—I 
affirm, without a doubt, that political prudence, 
the benefit of the cause, your public reputation 
and personal interest, do all equally demand 
this conduct of you.—I do not deny that a stroke 
like this is above the level of vulgar policy, or 
that if you were a much less. considerable man 
than you are, it would not suit you. But you 
will recollect, Sir, that the public opinion of 
you rises every day, and that you must enlarge 
your plan as you proceed, since you have every 
day a new acquisiticn of credit to maintain.— 
I offer you the sincere opinion of a man, who, 
perhaps, has more leisure to make reflections than 
you have, and who, though he stands clear of 
all business and intrigue, mixes. sufficiently. for 
the purposes of intelligence in the conversation 
of the world. ) 

Whatever language you in prudence assume 
to the public, you cannot but be sensible that 
the separation of those gentlemen who withdrew 
from the Bill of Rights was of considerable 
disservice to you. It required, in my opinion, 


*266 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


your utmost dexterity and resolution, and not a 
little of your good fortune, to get the better of 
it. But are you now really upon the best ground 
on which Mr. Wilkes might stand in the city? 
Will you say, that to separate Mr. Sawbridge 
from a connexion every way hostile to you, and 
to secure him against the insidious arts of Mr. 
Horne, and the fury of Mr. Townshend, (if it 
could be done without embarrassing your lead- 
ing measures, and much more if it promoted 
them) would not give you a considerable per- 
sonal gratification ?>—Will you say, that a public 
declaration of Mr. Sawbridge in your favour, 
and the appearance of your acting together, (I 
do not speak at present of a hearty coalition or 
confidence) would not contribute to give you 
a more secure, a more permanent, and without 
offence to any man, a more honourable hold upon 
the city than you have at present? What sensa- 
tions do you conceive a union between you and 
Mr. Sawbridge would excite in the breast of 
Mr. Horne’? Would it not amount to a decisive 
refutation of all the invidious arguments he has 
drawn from your being deserted by so many of 
the considerable figures of the party? The an- 
swer to these questions is too obvious to be mis- 
taken. But you will say to yourself what you 
would not confess to Juntus.—* Mr. Sawbridge 
is a man of unquestionable probity, and the con- 
6 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *267 


currence of his reputation would undoubtedly 
be of service to me; but he has not pliancy 
enough to yield to persuasion, and I, Wilkes, 
am determined not to suffer another to reap the 
harvest of my labours: that is, to take the lead 
of me in the city.’—Sir, I do not mean or expect 
that you should make such a sacrifice to any 
man. But besides difference in point of conduct 
between leading and going foremost, I answer 
your thoughts when I say, that although Mr. 
Sawbridge is not to be directed (and even this 
perhaps is not so literally and completely true 
as he himself imagines). on the other hand he 
does not mean to direct. His disposition, as 
you well know, is not fitted for that active ma- 
nagement and intrigue which acquire an operat- 
ing popularity, and direct the people by their 
passions. I attribute to you both the most ho- 
nourable intentions for the public, but you travel 
different roads, and never can be rivals.—It is 
not that Mr. Sawbridge does not wish to be po- 
pular; but, if I am not greatly mistaken, his 
virtues have not ostentation enough for the or- 
dinary uses of party, and that they lead rather 
to the esteem of individuals than to popular opi- 
nion.—This I conceive is exactly the man you 
want—you cannot always support a ferment in 
the minds of men. There will necessarily be 
moments of languor and fatigue ; and upon these 


*268 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


occasions Mr. Sawbridge’s reputed firmness and 
integrity may be a capital resource to you,— you 
have too much sagacity not to perceive how far 
this reasoning might be carried. 

In the very outset, you reap a considerable 
advantage, either from his acceptance or refu- 
sal.—What a copious subject of ostentation !— 
what rich colours to the public! your zeal to 
restore tranquillity to the city.—The sacrifice of 
all personal recollections in favour of a man whose 
general character you esteem ;—the public good 
preferred to every private or interested conside- 
ration, with along et cetera to your own ad- 
vantage.—Yet I do not mean to persuade you 
to so simple a part as that of contributing to 
gratify Mr. Sawbridge, without a reciprocal as- 
surance from him, that upon fair and honourable 
occasions he will in return promote your advan- 
tage.—Your own judgment will easily suggest 
to you such terms of acknowledgment as may 
be binding upon him in point of gratitude, and 
not offensive to his delicacy.—I have not entered 
into the consideration of any objections drawn 
from the fertile field of provocation and resent- 
ment.—Common men are influenced by common 
motives;—but you, Sir, who pretend to lead the 
people, must act upon higher principles. ‘To 
make our passions subservient to you, you must 
command your own. The man, who for any 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *269 


personal indulgence whatsoever, can sacrifice a 
great purpose to a little one, is not qualified for 
the management of great affairs.— 

Let me suppose then that every material dif- 
ficulty on your part is removed ; and that, as far 
as you alone are concerned, you would be ready 
to adopt the plan I propose to you. 

If you are aman of honour you will still have 
a powerful objection to oppose to me. Admit- 
ting the apparent advantage to your own pur- 
poses, and to the cause you are engaged in, you 
will tell me ‘ that you are no longer at liberty 
to chuse ;—that the desertion of those persons 
who once possessed a warm attachment to you, 
has reduced you to a situation in which you 
cannot do that which is absolutely best ;—that 
Mr. Crosby has deserved every thing from you 
and from the city, and that you stand engaged 
to contribute your whole strength to continue 
him another year in the mayoralty.’-—My reply 
to this very just objection is addressed rather to 
Mr. Crosby than to Mr. Wilkes. He ought at 
all events to be satisfied; andif I cannot bring 
him over to my opinion, there is an end of the 
argument ; for I do agree with you most hear- 
tily, that it is as gross a breach of policy as of 
morals, to sacrifice the man who has deserved 
well of us to any temporary benefit whatsoever. 
Far from meaning to separate you from Mr. 


#970 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


Crosby, it is essential to the measure I recom. 
mend, that it should be your joint act. Nay, it 
is he who in the first instance should open the 
communication with Mr. Sawbridge; nor is it 
possible for you to gain any credit by the mea- 
sure in which he will not of necessity be a con- 
siderable sharer. But now, for considerations 
which immediately affect Mr. Crosby. 

Your plan, as lam informed, is to engage 
the livery to return him with Mr. Bridgen.—In 
my own opinion the court of aldermen will choose 
Bridgen, consequently the sacrifice I require of 
Mr. Crosby would in effect be nothing. That 
he will be defeated is to my judgment inevitable. 
It is for him to consider whether the idea of a 
defeat be not always attended with some loss of 
reputation. In that case too he will have forced 
upon the citizens (whom he professes to love 
and respect) a magistrate, upon whose odious 
and contemptible character he at present founds 
his only hopes of success.—Do you think that 
the city will not once in the course of a twelve- 
month be sensible of the displeasure you have 
done them?—Or that it will not be placed in 
strong terms to your account. I appeal to Miss 
Wilkes, whose judgment I hear highly com- 
mended;—would she think herself much indebted 
to her favourite admirer, if he forced a most 
disagreeable partner upon her for a long winter’s 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *271 


night, because he could not dance with her him- 
self ? 

You will now say ;—* Sir, we understand 
the politics of the city better than you do, and 
are well assured that Mr. Crosby will be chosen 
Lord Mayor ;—otherwise we allow that upon 
your plan he might acquire credit without for- 
feiting any real advantage.’ Upon this ground 
I expect you, for I confess it is incumbent upon 
me to meet your argument, where it lies strongest 
against me.—Taking it for granted, then, that 
Mr. Crosby may be Lord Mayor, I affirm that 
it is not his interest, because it is not his greatest 
interest. The little profit of the salary cannot 
possibly be in contemplation with him.—I do 
not doubt that: he would rather make it an ex- 
pensive office to himself. His view must be di- 
rected then to the flattering distinction of suc- 
ceeding to a second mayoralty, and, what is still 
more honourable, to the being thought worthy 
of it by his fellow-citizens.—Placing this advan- 
tage in its strongest light, I say that every pur- 
pose of distinction is as completely answered by 
his being known to have had the employment 
in his power (which may be well insisted upon 
in argument, and never can be disproved by 
the fact) as by his accepting it. To this I add 
the signal credit he will acquire with every 
honest man by renouncing, upon motives of the 
clearest and most disinterested public spirit, a 


*272 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


personal honour, which you may fairly tell the 
world was unquestionably within his reach.— 
But these are trifles.—I assert that by now ac- 
cepting the mayoralty (which he may take 
hereafter whenever he pleases) he precludes 
himself from soliciting, with any colour of de- 
cency, a real and solid reward from the city.— 
I mean that he should be returned for London 
in the next Parliament.—I think his conduct 
entitles him to it, and that he cannot fail of suc- 
ceeding if he does not furnish his opponents 
with too just a pretence for saying that the city 
have already rewarded him. On the contrary 
with what force and truth may he tell his fellow- 
citizens at the next election, ‘for your sakes 
I relinquished the honour you intended me. 
The common good required it. But I did not 
mean to renounce my hopes that upon a proper 
occasion you would honour me with a oe 
mark of your approbation.’ 

You see I do not insist upon the good effects 
of Mr. Sawbridge’s gratitude, yet I am sure it 
may be depended upon. I do not say that he 
isa man to go all lengths with Mr. Wilkes; but 
you may be assured that it is not danger that 
will deter him, and that wherever you have the 
voice of the people with you, he will, upon prin- 
ciple, support their choice at the hazard of his 
life and fortune. 

Now, Sir, supposing all objections are re- 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. #273 


moved, and that you and Mr. Crosby are 
agreed, the question is in what manner is 
the business to be opened to Mr. Sawbridge. 
Upon this point too I shall offer you my opi- 
nion, because the plan of this letter would not 
otherwise be complete.—At the same time I 
do very unafiectedly submit myself to your 
judgment. 

I would have my Lord Mayor begin by 
desiring a private interview between him, Mr. 
Crosby and yourself. Very little preface will 
be necessary: You have a man to deal with who 
is too honourable to take an unfair advantage 
of you. With such aman you gain every thing 
by frankness and candour, and hazard nothing 
by the confidence you repose in him.—Notwith- 
standing any passages in this letter I would shew 
him the whole of it; in a great business there is 
nothing so fatal as cunning management;—and 
I would tell him it contained the plan upon 
which Mr. Crosby and you were desirous to act, 
provided he would engage to concur in it bond 
fide, so far forth as he was concerned. ‘There 
is one condition I own which appears to me a 
sine qua non; and yet I do not see how it can 
be proposed in terms unless his own good sense 
suggests the necessity of it to him.—I mean the 
total and absolute renunciation of Mr. Horne. It 

VOL. I. s 


*274 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


is very likely indeed that this gentleman may 
do the business for himself, either by laying aside 
the masque at once, or by abusing Mr. Saw- 
bridge for accepting the mayoralty upon any 
terms whatsoever of accommodation with Mr. 
Wilkes. : | 

This letter, Sir, is not intended for a correct 
or polished composition ; but it contains the very 
best of Junius’s understanding. Do not treat 
me so unworthily, or rather do not degrade 
yourself so much, as to suspect me of any in- 
terested view to Mr. Sawbridge’s particular ad- 
vantage. By all that’s honourable I mean no- 
thing but the cause; and I may defy your 
keenest penetration to assign a satisfactory rea- 
son why Junius, whoever he be, should have a 
personal interest in giving the mayoralty to 
Mr. Sawbridge, rather than to Mr. Crosby. 

I am heartily weary of writing, and shall re- 
serve another subject, on which I mean to ad- 
dress you, for another opportunity.—I think that 
this letter, if you act upon it, should be a secret 
to every body but Mr. Sawbridge and my Lord 
Mayor. 

JUNIUS*. 


* The plan recommended by Juntws in the above letter 
was not acted upon by Mr. Wilkes, for the reasons assigned by 
him in his letter of Sept. 12, 177], (No. 67.) The conse- 

quence 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *275 


N° 606. 
TO JOHN WILKES, ESQ. 

London, ‘Ith Sept. 1771. 

As this letter, Sir, has no relation to 

the subject of my last, the motives upon which 
you may have rejected one of my opinions, 
ought not to influence your judgment of ano- 
ther. Iam not very sanguine in my expecta- 
tions of persuading, nor do I think myself in- 
titled to quarrel with any man, for not follow- 
ing my advice; yet this, I believe, is a species 


quence was, that Mr. Alderman Nash, the ministerial candi- 
date, was elected Lord Mayor, to the infinite mortification of 
Junius, who, in Private Letter, No. 56, makes the following 
observation upon him and his election. “ What an aban- 
doned, prostituted ideot is your Lord Mayor! The shaineful 
mismanagement, which brought him into office, gave me the 
first, and an unconquerable disgust.” The subjoined is a list 
of the candidates for that office, with the numbers affixed to 
their respective names as they stood at the close of the poll «— 


For Mr. Alderman Nash - - 2199 
Mr. Alderman Sawbridge - 1879 
The Lord Mayor - - - 1795 
Mr. Alderman Halifax -— - 846 
Mr. Alderman Townshend - 151 
Sir Henry Bankes - - = - 36 


4 Marked by Mr. Wilkes, “ Received in Prince’s Court, 
Saturday, Sept. 7, 1771.” 
s 2 


#376 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


of injustice you have often experienced from 
your friends. From you, Sir, I expect im re- 
turn, that you will not remember how unsuc- 
cessfully I have recommended one measure to 
your consideration, lest you should think your- 
self bound to assert your consistency, and, in 
the true spirit of persecution, to pass the same 
sentence indifferently upon all my opinions. 
Forgive this levity, and now to the business; 

A man, who honestly engages in a public 
cause, must prepare himself for events which 
will at once demand his utmost patience, and 
rouse his warmest indignation. I feel myself, at 
this moment, in the very situation I describe ; 
yet from the common enemy I expect nothing 
but hostilities against the people. It is the con- 
duct of our friends that surprises and afflicts me. 
I cannot but resent the injury done to the com- 
mon cause by the assembly at the London 
Tavern, nor can I conceal from you my own 
particular disappointment. ‘They had it in their 
power to perform a real, effectual service to the 
nation ; and we expected from them a proof, not 
only of their zeal, but of their judgment.— 
Whereas the measure they have adopted is so 
shamefully injudicious, with regard to its de- 
clared object, that, in my opinion, it will, and 
reasonably ought, to make their zeal very 
questionable with the people they mean to serve. 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *277 


When I see a measure excellent in itself, and 
not absolutely unattainable, either not made the 
principal object, or extravagantly loaded with 
conditions palpably absurd or impracticable, I 
cannot easily satisfy myself, that the man, who 
proposes it, is quite so sincere as he pretends to 
be. You at least, Mr. Wilkes, should have 
shewn more temper and prudence, and a better 
knowledge of mankind. No personal respects 
whatsoever should have persuaded you to concur 
in these ridiculous resolutions. But my own zeal, 
I perceive, betrays me: I will endeavour to keep 
a better guard upon my temper, and apply to your 
judgment in the most cautious and measured 
Janguage. 

I object, in the first place, to the bulk, and 
much more to the stile of your resolutions of 
the 23d of July*; though some part of the 


* A copy of which is subjoined, to enable the reader the 
better to understand Junius’s objections to them. They are 
as follow :— 

London Tavern, July 23, 1771, 
SUPPORTERS OF THE BILL OF RIGHTS. 
SAVAGE BARRELL, ESQ. IN THE CHAIR. 
Resolved, 

Tuart the preamble, with the articles reported thjs day from 
the committee, be printed and published from this society, 

Whoever seriously considers the conduct of administration, 
both at home and abroad, can hardly entertain a doubt, that a 
plan is formed to subvert the constitution, 


in 


*278 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


preamble is as pointed as I could wish. You talk 
of yourselves with too much authority and im- 
portance. By assuming this false pomp and 
air of consequence, you either give general dis- 
gust, or, what is infinitely more dangerous, you 
expose yourselves to be laughed at. The Eng- 
lish are a fastidious people, and will not submit 


In the same manner, whoever attentively examines into the 
proceedings of the present House of Commons, must appre- 
hend, that such another house for seven years, after the ter- 
mination of the present parliament, would effectually accom- 
plish the views of the Court, and leave no hope of redress but 
in an appeal to God. 

The Middlesex election, taken on its true ground; the em- 
ployment of the standing army, in St. George’s Fields ; the. 
granting half a million, without enquiring into the expenditure 
of the civil list money, and upon the dangerous principle of 
considering the debts of the civil list as the debts of the nation ; 
and encroaching, to discharge them, upon the sinking fund, 
the great support of public credit ; the attempts made on juries, 
the last sacred bulwark of liberty and law; the arbitrary and 
venal hand with which government is conducted in Ireland ; 
the new and most unconstitutional mode of raising a revenue on 
the people of America, without asking the consent of their 
representatives; the introduction of an universal excise in 
America, instead of the laws of customs; the advancing the 
military above the civil power, and employing troops to awe 
the legislature ;—AIl these are measures of so marked, so 
mischievous a nature, that it is impossible they should be 
unfelt or misunderstood: yet these are measures which the 
House of Commons have acquiesced in, countenanced, or. 
executed. erat 

If the present House of Commons then have given such 

vita} 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *Q79 


to be talked to in so high a tone, by a set of 
private gentlemen, of whom they know nothing, 
but that they call themselves Supporters of the 
Bill of Rights. There are questions, which, in 
good policy, you should never provoke the people 
in general to ask themselves. At the same time, 
Sir, I am far from meaning to undervalue the 


vital wounds to the constitution, who is it can doubt, who is it 
can hope, that the conduet of such another House, will not be 
mortal to our liberties ? 

The trustees of the people should be pure of all interested 
communication with the Court or its ministers; yet the cor- 
rupt correspondence between the members of the House and 
the Court is as notorious now as it is abhorrent from every great 
and good purpose of their institution. Placemen, pensioners, 
contractors and receivers of lottery tickets, abound to such a 
degree in the House of Commons, that it is impossible a House 
so constituted can do their duty te the people. 

It must be plain to the most common apprehension, that 
men deputed by the people, to watch over and guard their 
rights against the Crown and its ministers, and, for that pur- 
pose, vested with the transcendent powers of refusing aid to 
the one, and impeaching the other, can never duly exercise 
those powers, or fulfil the intention of their election, if they 
are kept in pay of that Crown and those ministers. What is 
the plain and inevitable consequence then of entrusting such 
men with the guardianship of our rights, but that our rights 
must be betrayed and violated? Thus we have seen a House 
of Commons infringing, as the Court had pre-ordained, the 
sacred birthright of the people in the freedom of election ; 
erasing a judicial record; committing to the Tower, and 
threatening with impeachment, the friends of the people, and 
the defenders of the law ; while the favourites of the Court are 

suffered 


*280 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


institution of this society. On the contrary; 1: 
think the plan was admirable ; that it has already 
been of signal service to the public, and may be 
of much greater; and I do most earnestly wish,. 
that you would consider of, and promote a plan 
for forming constitutional clubs all through the 
kingdom. A measure of this kind would alarm 


suffered to sport with the laws, and trample on the constitu- 
tion, not only with impunity, but with approbation; curbing 
the people rigorously, and without feeling ; while they up- 
hold ministers, who are abhorred by the nation, in the most 
dangerous and alarming exertions of power; granting money 
with the most liberal, the most licentious hand to those ministers 
against whom the voice of the people calls loudly for impeach- 
ment. We have a suspecting people, and a confiding repre- 
sentative ; a complaining people, and an exulting representative ; 
aremonstrating people, and an addressing adulating representa- 
tive,—a representative, that is an engine of oppression in the 
hand of the Crown, instead of being a grand controuling in- 
guest in favour of the people. Such a representative is a- 
monster in the constitution, which must fill every considerate 
man with grief, alarm, astonishment, and indignation. 

It is corruption that has engendered, nursed, and nourished 
this monster. Against such corruption, then, all men, who 
value the preservation of their dearest rights, are called upon 
tounite. Let us remember, that we ourselves, our children, 
and our posterity, must be freemen or slaves; as we preserve 
or prostitute the noble birthright our ancestors bequeathed 
us: for should this corruption be once firmly rooted, we shall 
be an undone people. 

Already is it fixed among the representative, and we taste, 
a thousand ways, the bitter fruit which it produces; should it 
extend equally to the electors, we must fall, as Greece and 

Rome 


- 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *281 


government more, and be of more essential ser- 
vice to the cause, than any thing that can be 
done relative to new-modelling the House of 
Commons. You see then, that my objections 
are directed to the particular measure, not to 
the general institution. 

In the consideration of this measure, my 


Rome have fallen, by the same means, from the same liberty 
and glory, to slavery, contempt, and wretchedness. 

Impressed with these ideas, the gentlemen who compose the 
Society of the Bill of Rights, have determined to use their ut- 
most endeavours to exterminate this corruption, by providing for 
the freedom of election, the equal representation of the people, 
the integrity of the representative, and the redress of grievances, 
It is their great wish to render the House of Commons what it — 
constitutionally ought to be, the temple of liberty. With these 
views they have drawn up the following articles, which they 
now submit to the electors of Great Britain. At the same 
time they, with great deference, take the liberty of recommend- 
ing to the independent electors to form those articles into a 
solemn declaration, which the candidates, whom they support, 
shall be required as the imdispensable condition of their being 
supported to sign and seal, publicly, at the general meeting, or 
at the place of election, binding themselves, by oath, to a due 
and sacred observance of what is therein contained. 

The declaration so executed, may be deposited in the hands of 
the coroner, clerk of the peace, or magistrate before whom the 
oath was made, as a public memorial of what the constituent 
has demanded, and the representative has pledged himself to 
perform. J 

1. You shall consent to no supplies, without a previous re- 
dress of grievances. 

2. You shall promote a law, subjecting each candidate to an’ 

oath, 


#989 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


first objection goes to the declared purpose of 
the resolutions, in the terms and mode in which 
you have described it, viz. the extermination of 
corruption. In my opinion, you grasp at the 
ampossible, and lose the really attainable. — With- 
out plaguing you or myself with a logical argu- 
ment upon a speculative question, I willingly 
appeal to your own candour and judgment. 
Can any man in his senses affirm, that, as things 
are now circumstanced in this country, it is 
possible to exterminate corruption? Do you 
seriously think it possible to carry through both 
houses such a place-bill as you describe in the 
fifth article; or, supposing it carried, that it 
would, not be evaded? When you talk of con- 


oath, against having used bribery, or any other illegal means of 
compassing his election. 

3, You shall promote, to the utmost of your power, a full 
and equal representation of the people in parliament. 

4. You shall endeavour to restore annual parliaments. 

5. You shall promote a pension and place-bill, enacting, 
That any member who receives a place, pension, contract, 
lottery ticket, or any other emolument whatsoever from the 
Crown, or enjoys profit from any such place, pension, &e; shall 
not only vacate his seat, but be absolutely ineligible during his 
continuance under such undue influence. 

6. You shall impeach the ministers who advised the violat- 
ing the right of the freeholders in the Middlesex election 5 and 
the military murders in St. George’s Fields. 

7. You shall make strict enquiry into the conduet of Judges 
touching Juries. 4 

8. You 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *233 


tracts and lottery tickets, do you think that any 
human law can really prevent their being distri- 
buted and accepted, or do you only intend to 
mortify Townshend and Harley? In short, Sirs 
would you, bond fide, and as a manof honour, give 
it for your expectation and opinion, that there is a 
single county or borough in the kingdom, that 
will form the declaration recommended to them 
in these resolutions, and enforce it upon the 
candidates? Tor myself, I will tell you freely, 
not what I think, but what I know; the resolu- 
tions are either totally neglected in the country, 
or, if read, are laughed at, and by people who 
mean as well to the cause as any of us. 


8. You shall make strict ssi bai into the application of the 
public money. 

9, You shall use your utmost endeavours to have the resolu- 
tion of the House of Commons expunged, by which the ma-. 
gistrates of the city of London were arbitrarily imprisoned, for 
strictly adhering to their charter and their oaths ; and also that 
resolution by which a judicial record was erased to stop the 
course of justice. 

10. Youshall attend to the grievances of our fellow-subjects 
in Ireland, and second the complaints they may bring to the 
throne. 

11. You shall endeavour to restore to America the essential 
right of taxation, by representatives of their own free election; 
repealing the acts passed in violation of that right, since the 
year 1763; and the universal excise, so notoriously incompa- 
tible with every principle of British liberty, which has been 
lately substituted, in the colonies, for the laws of customs. 

Savacr Bargett, Esq; Caairman, 


3 


#234 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


With regard to the articles taken separately, 
I own I am concerned to see that the great con- 
dition, which ought to be the sine gud non of 
parliamentary qualification, which ought to be 
the basis, as it assuredly will be the only support, 
of every barrier raised in defence of the consti- 
tution; I mean a declaration upon oath to shorten 
the duration of parliaments, is reduced to the 
fourth rank in the esteem of the Society, and, 
even in that place, far from being insisted on 
with firmness and vehemence, seems to have 
been particularly slighted in the expression, you 
shall endeavour lo restore annual parliaments. Are 
these the terms which men who are in earnest 
make use of, when the salus reipublice is at stake ! 
I expected other language from Mr. Wilkes. 
Besides my objection in point of form, I disap- 
prove highly of the meaning of the fourth ar- 
ticle, as it stands :—Whenever the question shall 
be seriously agitated, I will endeavour (and if I 
live will assuredly attempt it) to convince the 
English nation, by arguments, to my understand- 
ing unanswerable, that they ought to insist upon 

a triennial, and banish the idea of an annual 
parliament. 

Article 1. The terms of the first article 
would have been very proper a century or two 
ago, but they are not adapted to the present 
state of the constitution. The King does not 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *285 


act directly either in imposing or redressing 
grievances. We need not now bribe the crown 
to do us justice; and, as to the refusal of sup- 
plies, we might punish ourselves indeed, but it 
would be no way compulsory upon the King. 
With respect to his civil list, he is already inde- 
pendent, or might be so, if he has common 
sense, or common resolution: and as for refus-« 
ing to vote the army or navy, I hope we shall 
never be mad enough to try an experiment every 
way so hazardous. But, in fact, the effort would 
be infinitely too great for the occasion. All we 
want is an honest representative, or at least such 
a one as will have some respect for the consti- 
tuent body. Formerly the House of Commons 
were compelled to bargain with the Sovereign. 
At present they may prescribe their own condi- 
tions. So much, in general, for grievances: as 
to particular grievances, almost all those we com- 
plain of are, apparently, the acts either of the 
Lords or the Commons. ‘The appointment of 
unworthy ministers, is not strictly a grievance, 
(that is, a legal subject of complaint to the King) 
until those ministers are arraigned and convicted 
in due course of law. If, after that, the King 
should persist in keeping them in office, it would 
be a grievance in the strict, legal sense of the 
word, and would undoubtedly justify rebellion 
according to the forms, as well as the spirit of 


5 


#286 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


the constitution. I am far from condemning 
the late addresses to the throne. They ought to 
be incessantly repeated. ‘The people, by the 
singular situation of their affairs, are compelled 
to do the duty of the House of Commons. 
Article 2. 1 object to the second article, be- 
cause I think that multiplying oaths is only mul- 
tiplying perjury. Besides this, I am_ satisfied 
that, with a triennial parliament (and without it 
all other provisions are nugatory) Mr. Gren- 
ville’s bill is, or may be made,a sufficient guard 
against any gross, or flagrant offences in this 
way. 
Article 3. The terms of the third article are 
too loose and indefinite to make a distinct or 
serious impression. ‘That the people are not 
equally and fully represented is unquestionable. 
But let us take care what we attempt. We may 
demolish the venerable fabric we intend to re- 
pair; and where is the strength and virtue to 
erect a better in its stead? I should not, for my 
own part, be so much moved at the corrupt and 
odious practices, by which inconsiderable men 
get into parliament; nor even at the want of a 
perfect representation, (and certainly nothing 
can be less reconcileable to the theory, than the 
present practice of the constitution) if means 
could be found to compel such men to do their 
duty (in essentials at least) when they are in 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES, #287 


parliament. Now, Sir, I am convinced that, if 
shortening the duration of parliaments (which 
in effect is keeping the representative under the 
rod of the constituent) be not made the basis 
of our new parliamentary Agisprudence, other 
checks or improvements signify nothing. On 
the contrary, if this be made the foundation, 
other measures may come in aid, and, as aux- 
iliaries, be of considerable advantage. Lord 
Chatham’s project, for instance, of increasing 
the number of Knights of Shires, appears to me 
admirable, and the moment we have obtained a 
triennial parliament, it ought to be tried. As to 
cutting away the rotten boroughs, I am as much 
offended as any man at seeing so many of them 
under the direct influence of the crown, or at 
the disposal of private persons, yet I own I have 
both doubts and apprehensions, in regard to 
the remedy you propose. I shall be charged, 
perhaps, with an unusual want of political intre- 
pidity, when I honestly confess to you, that I 
am startled at the idea of so extensive an ampu- 
tation. In the first place, I question the power 
de jure of the legislature to disfranchise a num- 
ber of boroughs upon the general ground of im- 
proving the constitution. ‘There cannot be a 
doctrine more fatal to the liberty and property 
we are contending for, than that which con- 
founds the idea of a supreme and an arbitrary 


*288 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


legislature. I need not point out to you, the 
fatal purposes to which it has been, and may be 
applied. If we are sincere in the political creed 
we profess, there are many things which we 
ought to affirm, cannot be done by King, Lords, 
and Commons. Among these I reckon the dis- 
franchising a borough with a general view to 
improvement. [I consider it as equivalent to 
robbing the parties concerned, of their freehold, 
of their birthright. I say, that although this 
birthright may be forfeited, or the exercise of 
it suspended in particular cases, it cannot be 
taken away by a general law, for any real or 
pretended purpose of improving the constitu- 
tion. I believe there is no power in this coun- 
try to make such a law. Supposing the attempt 
made, I am persuaded you cannot mean that 
either King or Lords should take an active part 
init. A bill, which only touches the represen- 
tation of the people, must originate in the House 
of Commons, in the formation and mode of pass- 
ing it. The exclusive right of the Commons 
must be asserted as scrupulously as in the case of 
a Money Bill.. Now, Sir, I should be glad to 
know by what kind of reasoning it can be proved, 
that there is a power vested in the representa- 
tive to destroy his immediate constituent: from 
whence could he possibly derive it? A courtier, 
I know, will be ready enough to maintain the 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *289 


affirmative. The doctrine suits him exactly, be- 
cause it gives an unlimited operation to the 
influence of the crown. But we, Mr. Wilkes, 
must hold a different language. It is no answer 
to me to say, that the bill, when it passes the 
House of Commons, is the act of the majority, 
and not of the representatives of the particular 
boroughs concerned. If the majority can dis- 
franchise ten boroughs, why not twenty? Why 
not the whole kingdom? Why should not they 
make their own seats in parliament for life? 
When the Septennial Act passed, the legislature 
did what apparently and palpably they had no 
power to do; but they did more than people in 
general were aware of; they disfranchised the 
whole kingdom for four years. For argument’s 
sake, I will now suppose, that the expediency 
of the measure, and the power of parliament, 
were unquestionable. Still you will find an in- 
surmountable difficulty in the execution. When 
all your instruments of amputation are prepared 
—when the unhappy patient lies bound at your 
feet, without the possibility of resistance, by 
what infallible rule will you direct the operation ? 
When you propose to cut away the rotten parts, 
can you tell us what parts are perfectly sound? 
Are there any certain limits, in fact or theory, 
to inform you at what point you must stop—at 
what point the mortification ends? To.a man so 
VOL, I. T 


#296 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


capable of observation and reflection as you are, 
it is unnecessary to say all that might be said 
upon the subject. Besides that I approve highly 
of Lord Chatham’s idea of ‘* infusing a portion 
of new health into the constitution to enable it 
to bear its infirmities,’ (a brilliant expression, 
and full of intrinsic wisdom,) other reasons con- 
cur in persuading me to adopt it. I have no ob- 
jection to paying him such compliments as carry 
a condition with them, and either bind him 
firmly to the cause, or become the bitterest re- 
proach to him if he deserts it. Of this last I 
have not the most distant suspicion. There is 
another man, indeed, with whose conduct I am 
not so completely satisfied. Yet even he, I 
think, has not resolution enough to do any thing 
flagrantly impudent in the face of his country, 
At the same time that I think it good po- 
licy to pay those compliments to Lord Chat- 
ham, which, in truth, he has nobly deserved, I 
should be glad to mortify those contempti- 
ble creatures, who call themselves noblemen, 
whose worthless importance depends entirely 
upon their influence ever boroughs, which can- 
not be safely diminished, but by increasing 
the power of the counties at large. Among 
these men, I cannot but distinguish the meanest 
of the human ‘species, the whole race of the 
‘Conways. I have but one word to add,—I would 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. #291 


not give representatives to those great trading 
towns, which have none at present. If the 
merchant and the manufacturer must be really 
represented, let them become freeholders by 
their industry, and let the representation of the 
county be increased. You will find the inter- 
ruption of business in those towns, by the trien- 
nial riot and cabals of an election, too dear a price 
for the nugatory privilege of sending members 
to parliament. 

The remaining articles will not require a 
long discussion ;—of the fourth and fifth I have 
spoken already. 

Article 6. The measures recommended in 
the sixth are unexceptionable. My only doubt 
is, how can an act apparently done by the House 
of Commons be fixed, by sufficient legal evi- 
dence, upon the Duke of Grafton or Lord 
North, of whose guilt Iam nevertheless com- 
pletely satisfied. As for Lord Weymouth and 
Lord Barrington, their own letters are a suffi- 
cient ground of impeachment. 

Article 7. The seventh article is also very 
proper and necessary. The impeachment of 
Lord Mansfield, upon his own paper, is indis- 
pensable. Yet suffer me to guard you against 
the seducing idea of concurring in any vote, or 
encouraging any bill, which may pretend to as- 
certain, while in reality it limits, the constitu- 

T 2 


*293 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


tional power of juries. I would have their right, 
to. return a general verdict in all cases whatso- 
ever, considered as a part of the constitution, 
fundamental, sacred, and no more questionable 
by the legislature, than whether the government 
of the country shall be by King, Lords, and 
Commons. Upon this point, an Enacting Bill 
would be pernicious; a Declaratory Bill, to say 
the best of it, useless. 

Article 8. I think the eighth article would 
be: more properly expressed thus: You shall 
grant no money, unless for services known to, and 
approved of, by Parliament. In general the sup- 
plies are appropriated, and cannot easily be mis- 
applied... ‘The House of Commons are indeed 
too ready in granting large sums under the head 
of extraordinaries incurred, and not provided for. 
But the accounts lie before them ;—it is their 
own fault if they do not examine them. The 
manner in which the late debt upon the civil list 
was pretended to be incurred, and really paid, 
demands a particular examination. Never was 
there a more impudent outrage offered toa pa- 
tient people. 

Article 9. The ninth is indispensable; but I 
think the matter of it rather fit for instruction, 
than for the declaration you have in view. Iam 
very apprehensive of clogging the declaration, 
and making it too long. ; 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *293 


' Articles 10 and 11. Inthe tenth and eleventh 
you are very civil to Ireland and America; and 
if you mean nothing but ostentation, it may 
possibly answer your purpose. Your care of 
Ireland is much to be commended. But, I 
think, in good policy, you may as well com- 
plete a reformation at home, before you attempt 
to carry your improvements to such a distance. 
Clearing the fountain is the best and shortest 
way to purify- the stream. As to taxing the 
Americans by their own representatives, I con- 
fess I do not perfectly understand you. If you 
propose that, in the article of taxation, they 
should hereafter be left to the authority of their 
respective assemblies, I must own I think you 
had no business to revive a question which should, 
and probably would, have lain dormant for ever. 
If you mean that the Americans should be.au- 
thorized to send their representatives to the Brit- 
ish parliament, I shall be contented with refer- 
ring you to what Mr. Burke has said. upon. this 
subject, and will not venture to add any thing of 
my own, for fear of discovering an offensive 
disregard of your opinion. » Since the repeal of 
the Stamp Act, I know of no Acts tending to 
tax the Americans, except that which creates 
the tea duty ; and even that can hardly be called 
internal. Yet it ought to be repealed, as an im- 
politic Act, not as an oppressive one. It pre- 


#994. PRIVATE LETTERS. 


serves the contention between the mother ¢coun- 
try and the colonies, when every thing worth 
contending for is in reality given up. When 
this Act’ is repealed, I presume you will turn 
your thoughts to the postage of letters; a tax 
imposed by authority of parliament, and levied 
in the very heart of the colonies. I am not suf- 
ficiently informed upon the subject of that ex- 
cise, which you say is substituted in North Ame- 
rica to the laws of customs, to deliver such an 
opinion upon it as I would abide by. Yet I can 
easily comprehend, that admitting the necessity 
of raising a revenue for the support of govern- 
ment there, any other revenue laws, but those 
of excise, would be nugatory in such a country 
as America. I say this with great diffidence as 
to the point in question, and with a positive pro- 
test against any conclusion from America to 
Great Britain. 

If these observations shall appear to deserve 
the attention of the Society, it is for them to 
consider what use may be made of them. I know 
how difficult and irksome it is to tread back the 
steps we have taken; yet, if any part of what I 
have submitted to you carries reason and convie- 
tion with it, I hope that no false shame will in- 
fluence our friends at the London Tavern. 

I do not deny that I expect my opinions 
upon these points should have some degree of 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *295 


weight with you. I have served Mr. Wilkes, 
and am still capable of serving him. I have 
faithfully served the public, without the possi- 
bility of a personal advantage. As Junius, I 
can never expect to be rewarded.—The secret 
is too important to be committed to any great 
man’s discretion. If views of interest or ambi- 
tion could tempt me to betray my own secret, 
how could I flatter myself that the man I 
trusted would not act upon the same principles, 
and sacrifice me at once to the King’s curiosity 
and resentment? Speaking therefore as a dis- 
interested man, I have a claim to your atten- 
tion. Let my opinions be fairly examined. 
JUNIUS. 


P.S. As you will probably never hear from 
me again, I will not omit this opportunity of 
observing to you, that I am not properly sup- 
ported in the newspapers. One would think 
that all the fools were of the other side of the 
question. As to myself it is of little moment. 
I can brush away the swarming insects) when- 
ever [ think proper. But it is bad policy to 
let it appear, in any instance, that we have not 
numbers as well as justice of our side. I wish 
you would contrive that the receipt of this letter 
and my last, might be barely acknowledged by 
a hint in the Public Advertiser. 


*296 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


N° 67. 


Prince’s Court, Monday, Sept. 9. 


Mr. Wirxes had the honour of re- 
ceiving from the same gentleman two excellent 
letters on important subjects, one dated Aug. 
21st, the other Sept. 7th. He begs the favour 
of the author to prescribe the mode of Mr. 
Wilkes’s communicating his answer’. 


N° 68. 


10 Sept. 1771. 


You may intrust Woodfall with a 
letter for me. Leave the rest to his manage- 
ment. 

I expect that you will not enter into any eX- 
planations with him whatsoever *. 


* This note was inserted in the Publie Advertiser on the day 
following its date. 

* Mr, Wilkes has written on it, “ Received by the Penny 
Post.”” 


JUNIUS AND: Mr. WILKES. “i SB0% 


N° 69. 


TO JUNIUS. 

SIR, Sept. 12, W771. 

I po not mean to indulge the imper- 

tinent curiosity ef finding out the most import- 

ant secret of our times, the author of Junius. 

I will not attempt with profane hands to tear 

the sacred veil of the sanctuary; I am disposed 

with the inhabitants of Attica, to erect an altar 

to the unknown god of our political idolatry, and 

will be content to worship him in clouds and 
darkness. 

This very circumstance, however, deeply 
embarrasses me. ‘The first letter with which I 
was honoured by Junius, called for a thousand 
anecdotes of Crosby, Sawbridge, and Towns- 
hend, too tedious, too minute, to throw upon 
paper, which yet must be acted upon, and as he 
well knows, mark the character of men. Junius 
has in my idea too favourable sentiments of 
Sawbridge. I allow him honest, but think he 
has more mulishness than understanding, more 
understanding than candour. He is become the 
absolute dupe of Malagrida’s gang. He has de- 
clared, that if he was chosen mayor this year, he 
would not serve the office, but fine, because 


*298 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


Townshend ought to be mayor. Such a decla- 
ration is certain, and in my opinion it borders 
on insanity. ‘To me Sawbridge complained the 
last year that his sheriffalty passed in a conti- 
nual secret cabal of Beckford, Townshend and 
Horne, without the communication of any thing 
to him till the moment of execution. Sawbridge 
has openly acted against us. Our troops will 
not be brought at present to fight his battles. 
Mrs. Macauley has warmly espoused the com- 
mon cause, and severely condemns her brother. 
Any overtures to Sawbridge, I believe, would 
have been rejected, perhaps treated with con- 
tempt, by not the best bred man in the island. 
How could I begin a negotiation when I was 
already pledged to Crosby, who has fed himself 
with the hope of that and the membership, by 
which I overcame his natural timidity? Juntus 
sees the confidence I place in him. Could there 
be a prospect of any cordiality between Saw- 
bridge and the popular party, at least so soon as 
his mayoralty? I should fear the Mansion House 
would be besieged, and taken by the banditti of 
the Shelburnes. But what I am sure-will be de- 
cisive to Juntus, I was engaged to Crosby before 
I received the letter of Aug. 21, and I have not 
since found in him the least inclination to yield 
the favourite point. The membership of the 
city is a security to the public for his steadiness 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES, *299 


in the cause. Surely then it would have been 
imprudent to have wished a change. My duty 
to the people only makes me form a wish for 
Crosby. ‘To make Crosby mayor, it is ne 
cessary to return to the court of aldermen ano- 
ther man so obnoxious that it is impossible for 
them to elect him. Bridgen I take to be this 
man. While he presided in the city he treated 
them with insolence, was exceedingly rude and 
scurrilous to them personally, starved them at 
the few entertainments he gave, and pocketed 
the city cash. As he has always voted on the 
popular side, we are justified to the livery in the 
recommendation of him, and the rest will be 
guessed. Crosby will probably be the locum te- 
nens of Bridgen, if Bridgen is elected. I wrote 
the letter on this subject in the Public Adver- 
tiser of Sept. 5. The argument there is specious, 
although my private opinion is, the House of 
Commons will not again fall into that snare. 
Into another I am satisfied they will. The House 
of Lords too, will, I think, furnish a most in- 
teresting scene, in consequence of the powers 
they usurp, and the sheriff means the attack. 
I wish this great business, as I have projected 
it, could be unravelled in a letter or two -to 
Junius, but the detail is too long and intricate. 
How greatly is it to be lamented that the few 
real friends of the public have so little commu- 


*300 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


nication of counsels, so few and only distant 
means of a_reserved intercourse ! 

I have no where met with more excellent and 
abundant political matter than in the letter of 
Junius respecting the Bill of Rights. He ought 
to know from me, that the American Dr. Lee (the 
Gazetteer’s Junius Americanus) was the author 
of the too long Preamble, Articles, &c. They 
were, indeed, submitted to me on the morning of 
the day on which they passed, but I made few 
corrections. I disliked the extreme verbiage of 
every part, and wished the whole put again on 
the anvil. Sir Joseph Mawbey and I were of 
opinion to adjourn the business for a reconsidera- 
tion, but the majority of the members were too 
impatient to have something go forth in their 
names to the public. It would have been highly 
imprudent in Sir Joseph or me to thwart them 
in so favourite a point, and the substance I in- 
deed greatly approve. At all times I hate taking 
in other people’s foul linen to wash. The So- 
ciety of the Bill of Rights have been called my 
committee, and it has been said that they were 
governed entirely by me. ‘This has spread a 
jealousy even among my friends. I was there- 
fore necessitated to act the most cautious and 
prudent part. You cannot always do all the good 
you wish, and you are sometimes reduced to the 
necessity of yielding in a particular moment to 

7 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. #301 


. conciliate the doubtful, the peevish, or the re- 
fractory. Junius may be assured that I will 
warmly recommend the formation of constitu- 
tional clubs in several parts of the kingdom. I 
am satisfied that nothing would more alarm the 
ministry. I agree that the shortening the dura- 
tion of parliaments is the first and most impor- 
tant of all considerations, without which all the 
rest would be nugatory; but I am unhappy to 
differ with Juntus in so essential a point as that 
of triennial parliaments. ‘They are inadequate 
to the cure of destroying dependence in the 
members on the crown. ‘They only lessen, not 
root out, corruption, and only reduce the pur- 
chase money for an annuity of three instead of 
seven years. I have a thousand arguments 
against triennial and in favour of annual parlia- 
ments. The question was fairly agitated at the 
London Tavern, and several of your friends 
owned that they were convinced. The subject 
is too copious for a letter. I hope to read Ju- 
nius’s mature and deliberate thoughts on this 
subject. I own that in the House of Commons 
sound policy would rather favour triennial par- 
liaments as the necessary road to annual, but 
the constitutional question is different. 

I am sorry likewise to differ with Junius as 
to the power de jure of the legislature to disfran- 
chise any boroughs. How originated the right, 


*302 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


and why was it granted? Old Sarum and Gatton, 
for instance, were populous places, when the right 
of representation was first given them. They 
are now desolate, and therefore in every thing 
should return to their former state. A barren 
mountain or a single farm-house can haye no re- 
presentation in parliament. I exceedingly ap- 
prove Lord Chatham’s idea of increasing ‘the 
number of Knights of Shires. If parliaments 
are not annual, I should not disapprove of a 
third part of the legislative body going out every 
year by: ballot, and of consequence an annual 
re-election in part. 
I am so much harassed with business at pre- 
sent, that I have not time to mention many 
particulars of importance, and these three days 
I have had the shivering fits of a slow lurking 
fever, a strange disorder for Wilkes, which makes 
writing painful tome. I could plunge the pa- 
triot dagger in the heart of the tyrant of my 
country, but my hand would now tremble in 
doing it. In general I enjoy settled confirmed 
health, to which I have for some years paid 
great attention, chiefly from public views. 
Iam satisfied that Junius now means me 
well, and I wish to merit more than his regards 
his friendship. He has poured balm imto my 
wounds, the deepest of which I sigh, when I 
recollect, were made by that now friendly hand, 
6. 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *308 


Iam always ready to kiss his rod, but I hope its 
destination is changed, and that it will never 
again fall as heavy upon me as towards the con- 
clusion of the year 1769, when ‘Thurlow said 
sneeringly, the government prosecuted Junius 
out of compliment to Wilkes. I warmly wish 
Junius my friend. As a public man I think 
myself secure of his support, for I will only 
depend on popular favour, and pursue only the 
true constitutional points of liberty. As a pri- 
vate person I figure to myself that Junius is as 
amiable in the private as he is great in the pub- 
lic walk of life. I nowJlive very much at home, 
happy in the elegant society of a sensible 
daughter, whom Junius has noticed in the most 
obliging manner. 

I have not had a moment’s conversation with 
Woodfall on the subject of our correspondence, 
nor. did I mean to mention it to him. All he 
can guess, will be from the following card, which 
Ishall send by my servant with this letter. ‘Mr, 
Wilkes presents his compliments to Mr. Wood- 
fall, and desires him to direct and forward the 
enclosed to Junius.” After the first letter of 
Junius to me, I did not go to Woodfall to pry 
into a secret I had no right to know. The 
letter itself bore the stamp of Jove. I was 
neither doubting nor impertinent. I wish to 
comply with every direction of Junius, to profit 


304 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


by his hints, and to have the permission of writ- 
ing to him on any important occasion. I desire 
to assure him, that in all great public concerns, 
I am perfectly free from every personality either 
of dislike or affection. The Stoic apathy is — 
really mine. 

Lord Chatham said to me ten years ago, 
“s**+*+* * is the falsest hypocrite in Eu- 
rope.” I must hate the man as much as even 
Justus can, for through this whole reign almost 
ithas been * * * * * * * * * versus Wilkes. This 
conduct will probably make it Wilkes versus* * * * 
*****, Juxivs must imagine that no man in 
the island feels what he writes on that occasion 
more than I do. 

This letter is an emanation of the heart, not 
an effort of the head. It claims attention from 
the honest zeal and sincerity of the writer, 
whose affection for his country will end pc 


with his life. 
JOHN WILKES, "7 


> 


N° 70. 
TO JOHN WILKES, ESQ’. 
SIR, London, 18th September, 171. 
Your letter of the 12th instant was 
carefully conveyed to me. I am much ery 


* Written on by him,“ Received Monday afternoon, Septem 
ber 18, 1771.” sai 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *305 


as you politely intended I should be, with the 
worship you are pleased to pay to the Unknown 
God of politics. I find I am treated as other 
Gods usually are by their votaries, with sacrifice 
and ceremony in abundance, and very little obe- 
dience. The profession of your faith is unex- 
ceptionable ; but I am a modest deity, and 
should be full as well satistied with good works 
and morality. | 

There is a rule in business that would save 
much time if it were generally adopted. 4 
question once decided is no longer a subject of 
argument. You have taken your resolution about 
the mayoralty. What I have now to say is not 
meant to alter it, but, in perfect good humour, 
to guard you against some inconveniences, which 
may attend the execution. It is your own aflair, 
and though I still think you have chosen inju- 
diciously, both for yourself and for the public, 
I have no right to find fault or to tease you with 
reflections, which cannot divert you from your 
purpose. 

I cannot comprehend the reason of Mr. 
Crosby’s eagerness to be Lord Mayor, unless 
he proposes to disgrace the office and himself’ 
by pocketing the salary. In that case he will 
create a disgust among the citizens, of which 
you and your party will feel the bad effects, and 
as for himself he may bid adieu to all hopes of 

VOL. I. : U 


*306 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


being returned for the city. That he should 
live with unusual splendour is essentially your 
interest and his own; and even then I do not 
perceive that his merits are so distinguished as to 
intitle him to a double reward. Of the dignity 
or authority of a Locum tenens, I know nothing ; 
nor can I conceive what credit Mr. Crosby is 
likely to derive from representing Mr. Bridgen. 
But suppose Bridgen should be lord mayor, and 
should keep his word in appointing Crosby his 
lieutenant, I should be glad to know, who is 
to support the expense and dignity of the office? 
It may suit such a fellow as Bridgen to shut up 
the Mansion-house, but I promise you his ceco- 
nomy will be of no service to Mr. Wilkes. If 
you make him mayor, you will be made answer- 
able for his conduct; and if he and Crosby be 
returned, you may depend upon it the court of 
aldermen will choose him. 

With regard to Mr. Sawbridge, since I can- 
not prevail with you to lay the foundation of a 
closer union between you, by any positive sa- 
crifice in his favour, at least let me entreat you 
to observe a moderate and guarded conduct 
towards him. I should be much concerned to 
see his character traduced, or his person insulted. 
He is not a dupe to any set of men whatsoever, 
nor do I think he has taken any violent or de- 
cided part against you.— Yet to be excluded from 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *307 


those honours which are the only rewards he 
pretends to, and to which he is so justly entitled, 
and to see them bestowed upon such men as 
Crosby and Bridgen, is enough to excite and 
justify his resentment. All this, Sir, is matter 
of convenience, which I hope you will consider. 
There is another point, upon which I must be 
much more serious and earnest with you. You 
seem to have no anxiety or apprehension but 
lest the friends of Lord Shelburne should get 
possession of the Mansion-house. In my opi- 
nion they have no chance of success whatsoever. 
The real danger is from the interest of govern- 
ment; from Harley, and the Tories.——If while 
you are employed in counteracting Mr. Towns- 
hend, a ministerial alderman should be returned, 
you will have ruined the cause.—You will have 
ruined yourself, and for ever. To say that Ju- 
nius could never forgive you is nothing ' ;—you 
could never forgive yourself:—Junius from that 
moment will be compelled to consider you as a 
man who has sacrificed the public to views which 
were every way unworthy of you. If then, upon 
a fair canvass of the livery, you should see a 
probability that Bridgen may not be returned, 
let that point be given up at once, and let Saw- 
bridge be returned with Crosby ;—a more likely 


* See note to Private Letters, No. 45, ante p. *250, 
u 2 


*308 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


way in my judgment to make Crosby lord 
mayor. 

Nothing can do you greater honour, nor be 
of greater benefit to the community, than your 
intended attack upon the unconstitutional powers. 
assumed by the House of Lords. You have my 
warmest applause ; and if I can assist, command 
my assistance. ‘The arbitrary power of fine and 
imprisonment, assumed by these men, would be 
a disgrace to any form of legal government not 
purely aristocratical.—Directly, it invades the 
laws, indirectly, it saps the constitution. Na- 
turally phlegmatic, these questions warm me.— 
I envy you the laurels you will acquire.— Banish 
the thought that Junius can make a dishonour- 
able or an imprudent use of the confidence you 
repose in him. When you have leisure, commu- 
nicate your plan to me, that I may have time to 
examine it, and to consider what part I can act 
with the greatest advantage to the cause. ‘The 
constitutional argument is obvious. I wish you 
to point out to me where you think the force 
of the formal legal argument lies. In pursuing 
such inquiries I lie under a singular disadvan- 
tage. Not venturing to consult those who are 
qualified to inform me, I am forced to collect 
every thing from books or common conversation. 
The pains I took with that paper upon privilege, 
were greater than I can express to you. Yet 


JUNiIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *309 


after I had blinded myself with poring over jour- 
nals, debates, and parliamentary history, I was 
at last obliged to hazard a bold assertion, which 
IT am now convinced is true (as I really then 
thought it), because it has not been disproved or 
disputed.—There is this material difference upon 
the face of the two questions. We can clearly 
shew a time when the lower house had not an 
unlimited power of commitment for breach of 
privilege. Whereas I fear we shall not have the 
same advantage over the House of Lords. It is 
not that precedents have any weight with me in 
opposition to principles ; but I know they weigh 
with the multitude. 

My opinion of the several articles of the pro- 
posed declaration remains unaltered. I cannot 
pretend to answer those arguments in favour of 
annual parliaments, by which you say the friends 
of Junius were convinced. ‘The question is not 
what is best in theory (for there I should un- 
doubtedly agree with you), but what is most ex- 
pedient in practice. You labour to carry the 
constitution to a point of perfection which it 
can never reach to, or at which it cannot long 
be stationary. In this idea I think I see the 
mistake of a speculative man, who is either not 
conversant with the world, or not sufficiently 
persuaded of the necessity of taking things as 
they are. ‘The objection drawn from the pur- 


%2Q 


310 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


chase of an annuity for three years instead of seven, 
is defective, because it applies in the same pro- 
portion to an annuity for one year. ‘This is not 
the question. The point is to keep the represen- 
tative as much under the check and controul of 
the constituent, as can be done, consistently with 
other great and essential objects. But without 
entering farther into the debate, I would advise, 
that this part of the declaration be expressed 
in general terms; viz. to shorten the duration 
of parliaments. ‘This mediating expedient will, 
for the present, take in both opinions, and leave 
open the quantum of time to a future discussion. 
In answer to a general argument, by which the 
uncontroulable right of the people to form the 
third part of the legislature is defended, you urge 
against me two gross cases, which undoubtedly 
call for correction. ‘These cases, you may be- 
lieve, did not escape me, and by the bye, admit 
of a particular answer. But it is not treating 
me fairly to oppose general principles with par- 
ticular abuses. It is not in human policy to 
form an institution from which no possible in- 
convenience shall arise. I did not pretend to 
deliver a doctrine, to which there could be no 
possible objection. We are to chuse between 
better and worse. Let us come fairly to the 
point.—Whether is it safer to deny the legisla- 


ture a power of disfranchising all the electors of 
7 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. FSi . 


a borough; (which, if denied, entails a number 
of rotten boroughs upon the constitution )—or to 
admit the power, and so leave it with the legis- 
lature to disfranchise ad arbitrium every borough 
and county in the kingdom. If you deny the 
consequence, it will be incumbent upon you to 
prove by positive reasoning that a power which 
holds in the case of Aylesbury or New Shore- 
ham, does not hold in the case of York, London, 
or Middlesex. To this question I desire a di- 
rect answer ; and when we have fixed our prin- 
ciples we may regularly descend to the detail. 
The case of Gatton and Old Sarum do not em- 
barrass me. ‘Their right to return members to 
parliament has neither fact nor theory to support 
it.—** They have, bond fide, no electors.” Con- 
sequently there is no man to be dispossessed of 
his freehold. No man to be disfranchised of his 
right of election. At the worst, supposing the 
annihilation of these pretended boroughs could 
no way be reconciled to my own principles, I 
shall only say, give me a healthy, vigorous con- 
stitution, and I shall hardly consult my looking- 
glass to discover a blemish upon my skin. 

You ask me, from whence did the right origi- 
nate, and for what purpose was it granted? I 
do not see the tendency of these questions, but I 
answer them without scruple: ‘ In general it 
arose from the King’s writs, and it was granted 


*312 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


with a view to balance the power of the nobility, 
and to obtain aids from the people.’—But 
without looking back to an obscure antiquity, 
from which no certain information can be col- 
lected, you will find that the laws of England 
have much greater regard to possession (of a cer- 
tain length) than to any other title whatsoever; 
and that in every kind of property which savours 
of the reality this doctrine is most wisely the 
basis of our English jurisprudence. Though I 
use the terms of art, do not injure me so much 
as to suspect I am a lawyer.—I had as lief be a 
Scotchman.—It is the encouragement given to 
disputes about titles, which has supported that 
iniquitous profession at the expense of the com- 
munity.—As to this whole argument about rot- 
ten boroughs, if I seem zealous in supporting 
my opinion, it is not from a conception that the 
constitution cannot possibly be relieved from 
them—lI mean only to reconcile you to an evil 
which cannot safely be removed. 

Now, Mr. Wilkes, I shall deal very plainly 
with you. The subject of my first letter was 
private and personal, and I am content it should 
be forgotten. Your letter to me is also sacred. 
But my second letter is of public import, and 
must not be suppressed. I did not mean thatit 
should be buried in Prince’s Court. It would be 
unfair to embarrass you with a new question, 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *313 


while your city election is depending. But if I 
perceive that within a reasonable time after that 
business is concluded, no steps are taken with 
the Bill of Rights to form a new, short, and ra- 
tional declaration (whether by laying my letter 
before the society, or by any other mode that 
you shall think adviseable), I shall hold myself 
obliged, by a duty paramount to all other consi- 
derations, to institute an amicable suit against 
the society before the tribunal of the public. 
Without asperity, without petulance or dis- 
respect, I propose to publish the second letter, 
and to answer or submit to argument. The ne- 
cessity of taking this step will indeed give me 
pain, for I well know that differences between 
the advocates are of no service to the cause. 
But the lives of the best of us are spent in 
choosing between evils.—As to you, Sir, you 
may as well take the trouble of directing that 
society, since whatever they do is placed to your 
account. 

The domestic society you speak of is much 
tobe envied. I fancy I should like it still better 
than you do. I too am no enemy to good fel- 
lowship, and have often cursed that canting par- 
son for wishing to deny you your claret. It is for 
him, and men like him, to beware of intoxication. 
Though I do not place the little pleasures of 
life in competition with the glorious business 

6 


*314 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


of instructing and directing the people, yet 
I see no reason why a wise man may not unite 
the public virtues of Cato, with the indulgence 
of Epicurus. 

Continue careful of your health. Your head 
is too useful to be spared, and your hand may be 
wanted. ‘Think no more of what is past. You 
did not then stand so well in my opinion; and 
it was necessary to the plan of that letter to rate 
you lower than you deserved. The wound is 
curable, and the scar shall be no disgrace to you. 

I willingly accept of as much of your friend- 
ship as you can impart, to a man whom you will 
assuredly never know. Besides every personal 
consideration, if I were known, I could no 
longer be an useful servant to the public. At 
present there is something oracular in the de- 
livery of my opinions. I speak from a recess 
which no human curiosity can penetrate, and 
darkness, we are told, is one source of the 
sublime.—The mystery of Junius increases his 


importance. 
JUNIUS. 


N° 71. 
Prince’s Court, Thursday, Sept. 19. 
Mr. Wirxes thanks Mr. Woodfall for the 
care of the former letter, and desires him to 
transmit the inclosed to JuNIUs. 


JUNIUS AND Mx. WILKES. *315 


TO JUNIUS. 

SIR, Sept. 19, 1771. 
I wap last night the honour of your 

letter of yesterday’s date. I am just going to 
the Common Hall, but-first take up che pen to 
thank you for the kindness you express to me, 
and to say that the Bill of Rights meet next 
Tuesday. I thought it necessary not to lose a 
moment in giving you this information, that 
whatever you judge proper may be submitted to 
that society as early as possible. Junius may 
command me in every thing. When he says 
«my second letter is of public import, and must 
not be suppressed. I did not mean that it should 
be buried in Prince’s Court,’’—does he wish it 
should be communicated to the society, and in 
what manner? ‘The beginning of the second let- 
ter refers to a first letter, and some other expres- 
sions may be improper for the knowledge of the 
society. I wait Junrus’s directions. 1 beg his 
free sentiments on all occasions. I mean next 
week to state a variety of particulars for his con- 
sideration and in answer to his letter. I had 
now only a moment to mention a point of busi- 


ness and a feeling of gratitude. 
JOHN WILKES, 


*316 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


PY» 
SIR, 21st September, 1 TTL", 
SINCE you are so obliging as to say, you 
will be guided by my opinion as to the manner 
of laying my sentiments before the Bill of Rights, 
I see no reason why the whole of the second 
letter may not be read there next Tuesday, eX- 
cept the postscript, which has no connection 
with the rest, and the word ridiculous, which 
may naturally give offence ;—as I mean to per- 
suade and soften, not irritate or offend. “Let 
that word be expunged. ‘The prefatory part you 
may leave or not as you think proper. You are 
not bound to satisfy any man’s curiosity upon 
a private matter, and upon my silence you may, 
I believe, depend entirely. As to other pas- 
sages I have no favour or affection, so let all 
go. It should be copied over in a better hand. 
If any objections are raised, which are an- 
swered in my third letter, you will, I am sure, 
answer for me, so far forth, ore tenus. 
JUNIUS. 
By all means let it be copied.—This manu- 
seript is for private use only. 


* Written on it by Mr. Wilkes, “ Received Sept. 21, 1771.” 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *317 


N° 73. 

SIR, Monday’. 

Wuen I wrote to you on Saturday, it 

did not occur to me that your own advertisement 

had already informed the public of your receiv- 

ing two letters; your omitting the preamble to 

the second letter would therefore be to no pur- 
pose. 

In my opinion you should not wish to de- 
cline the appearance of being particularly ad- 
dressed in that letter. It is calculated to give 
you dignity with the public. ‘There is more in 
it than perhaps you are aware of. Depend upon 
it, the perpetual union of Wilkes and mob does 
you no service. Not but that I love and esteem 
the mob.—It is your interest to keep up dignity 
and gravity besides. 1 would not make myself 
cheap by walking the streets so much as you do. 
Verbum sat. 


N° 74. 
TO JUNIUS- 
SIR, Wednesday, Sept. 25, 
Yesterpay I attended the meeting of 
the Society of the Bill of Rights, and laid before 
them the letter, which I had the honour of re- 


* Written on it by Mr. Wilkes, “ Received Sept. 23,1771.” 


*318 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


ceiving from you on the 7th of September. The 
few lines of the preamble I omitted, the word 
ridiculous, according to your directions, and a 
very few more lines towards the conclusion. 
All the rest was a faithful transcript, the exact 
tenor’. The season of the year occasioned the 
meeting to be ill attended. Only eleven mem- 
bers were present. The following resolution 
passed unanimously: ‘“ That Mr. Wilkes be 
desired to transmit to Junius the thanks of the 
Society for his letter, and to assure him, that it 
was received with all the respect due to his dis- 
tinguished character and abilities.” Soon after 
my fever obliged me to return home, and I have 
not heard of any thing further being done; but 
Mr. Lee told me he thought the letter capable 
of a full answer, which he meant on a future 
day, to submit to the Society, and would pre- 
viously communicate to me. ‘The letter is left 


* When Mr. Wilkes was prosecuted in the year 1764, for 
publishing the North Briton, No. 45, Lord Mansfield issued 
an order for Mr. Wilkes’s attorney or solicitor to attend at his 
house, on the morning previous to the trial, “to shew cause 
why the information in this cause should not be amended by 
striking out the word purport, in the several places where it 
is mentioned m the said information, (except in the first 
place) and inserting, instead thereof, the word tenor.’ The 
Chief Justice was accused of having suggested this alteration, 
and several objections were taken to it, which, in argument, 
were overruied by the Court. 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. #319 


in the hands of Mr. Reynolds, who has the care 
of the other papers of the Society, with direc- 
tions to permit every member to peruse, and 
even transcribe it, on the promise of non-pub- 
lication. Some particular expressions appeared 
rather too harsh and grating to the ears of some 
of the members. 

Surely, Sir, nothing in the advertisement I 
inserted in the Public Advertiser, could lead to 
the idea of the two letters I mentioned coming 
from Junius. I intreat him to peruse once more, 
that guarded advertisement. I hope that Mr. 
Bull’s, and my address of Saturday, was approved 
where I most desire it should be thought of fa- 
vourably. I know it made our enemies wince 
in the most tender part. 

I am too ill to-day to add more. 
JOHN WILKES. 


N° 75. 
SIR, 16th October, 1771. 
I cannot help expressing to you my 
thanks and approbation of your letter of this day’. 


* This was a long address from Mr. Wilkes to the livery of 
London, in his own defence, from an attack which had been 
made upon him by Mr. Alderman Townshend. We shall ex- 
tract such parts of it as are more particularly alluded to by 
Junius in this letter, 


*320 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


I think it proper, manly, and to the purpose. In 
these altercations nothing can be more useful, 
than to preserve dignity and sang froid—fortiter 
in re, suaviter in modo, increases both the force 
and the severity. Your conduct to Mr. Saw- 
bridge is every thing I could wish’. Be assured, 
you will find it both honourable and judicious. 
Had it been adopted a little sooner, you might 
have returned him and Crosby, and taken the 
whole merit of it to yourself. If I am truly in- 
formed of Mr. S.’s behaviour on the hustings, I 
must confess it does not satisfy me. But perse- 
verance, management, and determined good 
humour, will set every thing right, and, in the 
end, break the heart of Mr. Horne. Nothing 
can be more true than what you say about great 
men*. ‘They are indeed a worthless, pitiful race. 


* «Mr. Townshend asks, ‘ Does he (Mr. Wilkes) allow one 
man in the court of aldermen to be worthy of your confidence, 
except himself and Mr. Crosby ?’ Let me state the question 
about Mr. Sawbridge. Mr. Wilkes has declared under his 
hand, in all the public papers, ‘ No man can honour Mr. Saw- 
bridge more than Ido, for every public and private virtue, 
which constitutes a great and amiable character’ Was this 
praise cold or penurious? Was it not deserving a better re- 
turn than it seems to have found? Is not such a character 
worthy of your confidence ?” Mr. Wilkes’s letter of Oct. 15. 

* « Mr. Morris told us at the Bill of Rights, that when he 
pressed Mr. Townshend about the affair of the printers, his 
answer was, that he did not find he should be supported by 
any great man, and otherwise it would be dmprudent, therefore 

did 


JUNIUS AND Mx WILKES. *321 


Chatham has gallantly thrown away the scab- 
bard, and never flinched. From that moment 


I began to like him. 
I see we do not agree about the strict right 
of pressing’. If you are as sincere as I am, 


did not chuse to actin it. The prudent Mr. Townshend may 
wait the consent of great men. I will on a national call follow 
instantly the line of my duty, regardless of their applause or 
censure. Public spirit and virtue are seldom in the company 
of his Lordship or his Grace. [The case of the printers is 
detailed in note to Miscellaneous Letters, No. xci. Vol. III. 


p. 345.] 


* ser * * * * * 


** Has not, by the conduct of your Magistrates, a complete 
victory been gained over the usurped powers both of the 
Crown and the House of Commons? The two questions had 
been frequently agitated among the friends of liberty, even 
while I remained at the King’s Bench. When the city and the 
nation had clearly decided in favour of the cause, the great 
men followed, as they generally do, joined the public cry, and 
thronged to the Tower to pay their tardy tribute of praise to 
the persecuted patriots. The business had been completed 
without their assistance. In all such cases I am persuaded we 
shall find, that the people will be obliged to do their own 
business ; but if it succeeds, they may be sure of the concur- 
rence and applause of the great, and their even entering the 
most lothsome prisons or dungeons—on a short visit of 
parade.’ Mr. Wilkes’s letter of Oct. 15. 

* « Asa good Englishman and citizen, I thanked my bre- 
thren Sawbridge and Oliver for having so nobly discharged 
their duty as aldermen in the business of Press Warrants, on 
which I expatiated as the most cruel species of General War- 
rants.” Id. 


VOL, I, xX 


#322 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


we shall not quarrel about a difference of opi- 
nion. Ishall say a few words to-morrow on this 
subject, under the signature of Philo-Junius.— 
The letters under that name have been hastily 
drawn up, but the principles are tenable. I 
thought your letter about the military very 
proper and well drawn’. 
JUNIUS. 


* Shortly previous to Messrs. Wilkes and Bull entering upon 
their office of sheriffs of London, they addressed a short letter 
to the livery, containing a paragraph respecting the military, 
of which the following is a copy :— 

“« We have observed with the deepest concern, that a mili- 
tary force has, on several late occasicns, been employed by an 
unprincipled administration, under the pretence of assisting 
the civil power in carrying the sentence of the laws into exe- 
cution. The conduct of the present sheriffs, in the remark- 
able case of the two unhappy men who suflered in July, near 
Bethnal Green, was truly patriotic. We are determined to 
follow so meritorious an example, and as that melancholy part 
of our office will commence in a very few days, we take this 
opportunity of declaring, that as the constitution has entrusted 
us with the whole power of the county, we will not, during 
our sheriffalty, suffer any part of the army to interfere, or 
even to attend, as on many former occasions, on the pretence 
of aiding or assisting the civil magistrate. This resolution 
we declare to the public, and to administration, to prevent 
during our continuance in office, the sending of any detach- 
ments from the regular forces on such a service, and the pos- 
sibility of all future alarming disputes. The civil power of 
this country we are sure is able to support itself and a good 
government. The magistrate, with the assistance of those in 
his jurisdiction, is by experience known to be strong enough 

_ to 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. #323 


N° 76. 
SIR, Oct, 17, 1771. 


Iam not yet recovered, and to-day have 
been harassed with complaints against the great- 
est villains out of hell, the bailiffs; but so very 
polite and friendly a letter as Junrus’s of yes- 
terday demands my earliest and warmest ac- 
knowledgments. I only take up the pen to say 
that I think myself happy in his approbation, 
that a line of applause from him gives the same 
brisk circulation to my spirits, as a kiss from 
Chloe, and that I mean soon to communicate to 
him a project of importance.—I will skirmish 
with the great almost every day in some way or 
other. Does Junius approve the following ma- 


to enforce all legal commands, without the aid of a standing 
army. Where that is not the case, a nation must sink into an 
absolute military government, and every thing valuable to the 
subject be at the mercy of the soldiery and their commander. 
We leave to our brave countrymen of the army the glory of 
conquering our foreign enemies. We pledge ourselves to the 
public for the faithful and exact discharge of our duty in 
every emergency without their assistance. We desire to save 
them a service we know they detest, and we take on ourselves 
the painful task of those unpleasing scenes, which our office 
calls upon us to superintend. The laws of our country shall, 
in all instances during our sheriffalty, be solely enforced by 
the authority and vigour of the civil magistrate.” 


x 2 


*324 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


noeuvre, instead of going in a gingerbread cha- 
riot to yawn through a dull sermon at St. Paul’s. 
Old Bailey, Oct. 24th, 1771. 
“¢ Mr. Sheriff Wilkes presents his duty to 
the Lord Mayor, and asks his Lordship’s leave 
to prefer the real service of his country to-mor- 
row in the administration of justice here, to the 
vain parade on the anniversary of the accession 
of a prince, under whose inauspicious govern- 
ment an universal discontent prevails among the 
people, and who still leaves the most intolerable 
grievances of his subjects unredressed.”’—This 
card to be published at length. Will Juntus 
suggest any alteration or addition? It is a bold 
step.—The sessions will not be ended on the 
25th, and it is the duty of the sheriff to attend. 
I will follow all your hints about Mr. Sawbridge. 
—I am sorry to differ so much from you, about 
Press Warrants. I own that I have warmly 
gone through that opposition upon the clear 
conviction that every argument alledged for the 
legality of the Press Warrant would do equally 
well for ship money. I believe Junrus as Sin- 
cere as myself, I will therefore be so far from 
quarrelling with him for any difference of opi- 
nion, that when I find we disagree I will act 
with double caution, and some distrust of the 
certainty of my being clearly in the right. 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. #325 


T hope the Sheriff’s letter to Mr. Akerman 
has your approbation.. Does Junius wish for 
any dinner or ball tickets for the lord mayor’s 
day, for himself, or friends, or a favourite, 
or Junia? The day will be worth observation. 
Whether creté an carbone notandus, I do not 
know; but the people, Sir, the people are the 
sight. How happy should I be to see my Por- 
tia here dance a graceful minuet with Junius 
Brutus! but Junius is inexorable and I submit. 
I would send your tickets to Woodfall. 

To-morrow I go with the Lord Mayor and 
my brother sheriff to Rochester to take up our 
freedoms. We return on Sunday night. 

I entreat of Juntus to favour me with 
every idea, which occurs to him for the com- 
mon cause, in every particular relative to my 
conduct. He shall find me no less grateful than 


ductile. 
JOHN WILKES. 


London, 21 October, 1771. 

Many thanks for your obliging offer ; 

—but alas! my age and figure would do but 

little credit to my partner.—I acknowledge the 

relation between Cato and Portia, but in truth 

I see no connexion between Junius and a mi- 
nuet. 


*326 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


You shall have my opinion whenever you 
think proper to ask it, freely, honestly, and 
heartily.—If I were only a party man I should 
naturally concur in any enterprize, likely to 
create a bustle without risque or trouble to my- 
self. But I love the cause independent of per- 
sons, and I wish well to Mr. Wilkes indepen- 
dent of the cause. Feeling, as I really do, for 
others where my own safety is provided for, the 
danger to which I expose a simple printer, af- 
flicts and distresses me. It lowers me to myself 
to draw another into a hazardous situation which 
I cannot partake of with him. This considera- 
tion will account for my abstaining from * * * * 
** * * * so long, and for the undeserved mode- 
ration with which I have treated him. I know 
my ground thoroughly when I affirm that he 
alone is the mark. It is not Bute, nor even the 
Princess Dowager: It 13 * * * * * * 87" Sie. 
*e eK KKK HK K K KK * whom every honest 
man should detest, and every brave man should 
attack. Some measures of dignity and prudence 
must nevertheless be preserved for our own 
sakes. I think your intended message to the 
lord mayor is more spirited than judicious, and 
that it may be attended with consequences 
which (compared with the single purpose of 
KKK KR KKK RK KK HH K KK % *) are not worth 


hazarding—non. est tanti—consider it is not 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *327 


Junius or Jack Wilkes, but a grave sheriff (for 
grave you should be) who marks his entrance 
into office with a direct outrage to the * * * * * * * 
eS © eH *: that it is only an outrage, 
and leads to nothing.—Will not courtiers take 
advantage ? Will not Whigs be offended? And 
whether offended or not, will not all parties 
pretend to condemn you? If measures and not 
men has any meaning (and I own it has very 
little), it must hold particularly in the case of 
** * * * ** * 5 and if truth and reason be on 
one side, and all the common-place topics on 
the other, can you doubt to which side the mul- 
titude will incline? Besides that it is too early 
to begin this kind of attack, I confess I am anx- 
ious for your safety. I know that in the ordi- 
nary course of law they cannot hurt you; but 
did the idea of a Bill of Banishment never oc- 
cur to you? And don’t you think a demonstra- 
tion of this kind on your part might furnish go- 
vernment with a specious pretence for destroy- 
ing you at once, by a summary proceeding ? 
Consider the measure coolly and then determine. 

If these loose thoughts should not weigh 
with you as much as I could wish, I would then 
recommend a little alteration in the message. 
I would have it stated thus :— 


« Prince’s Court, 24 October, 1771. 


«© Mr. Wilkes presents his duty to the Lord 


*328 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


Mayor, and flatters himself he shall be honoured 
with his .Lordship’s approbation, if he prefers 
the real service of his country to-morrow in the 
administration of justice at the Old Bailey, to 
the vain parade of a procession to St. Paul’s.— 
With the warmest attachment to the House of 
Hanover, and the most determined allegiance 
to the chief magistrate, he hopes it will not be 
thought incumbent on him to take an active 
part in celebrating the accession of a prince, 
under whose inauspicious reign the English con- 
stitution has been grossly and deliberately vio- 
lated, the civil rights of the people no less dar- 
ingly invaded, and their humble petitions for re- 
dress rejected with contempt.”?— 

In the first part, to ask a man’s leave to prefer 
the real service ef our country to a vain parade, 
seems, if serious, too servile ;—if jest, unsea- 
sonable, and rather approaching to burlesque.— 
The rest appears to me not less strong than 
your own words, and better guarded in point of 
safety, which you neglect too much.—I am now 
a little hurried, and shall write to you shortly 


upon some other topics. . 
JUNIUS. 


N° 78. | 
Prince’s Court, Monday Morning, Nov. 4. 


On my return home last night I had 
the very great pleasure of reading the Dedication 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *329 


and Preface which Mr. Woodfall left for me. I 
am going with the city officers to invite the little 
great to the custard on Saturday. Perditur hoc 
inter. misero lux. I shall only add, accepi, legi, 
probavi. I am much honoured by the polite 
attention of Junrus'. 


N° 79. 

6 November, 1771. 
I ENTREAT you to procure for me co- 
pies of the informations against Eyre before the 
Lord Mayor. I presume they were taken in 
writing. If not I beg you will favour me with 
the most exact account of the substance of 
them, and any observations of your own that 
you think material. If I am right in my facts, 
I answer for my law, and mean to attack Lord 

Mansfield as soon as possible. 

My American namesake is plainly a man of 
abilities, though I think a little unreasonable, 
when he insists upon more than an absolute sur- 
render of the fact. I agree with him that it is a 
hardship on the Americans to be taxed by the 
British legislature ; but it isa hardship insepara- 
ble in theory from the condition of colenists, in 


* Upon this letter was written by Mr. Wilkes, “ On return- 
ing Junrus, the Dedication and Preface he sent me.” 


6 


*330 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


which they have voluntarily placed themselves. 
If emigration be no crime to deserve punish- 
ment, it is certainly no virtue to claim exemp- 
tion; and however it may have proved even- 
tually beneficial, the mother country was but 
little obliged to the intentions of the first emi- 
grants. But, in fact, change of place does not 
exempt from subjection :—the members of our 
factories settled under foreign governments, and 
whose voluntary banishment is much more laud- 
able with regard to the mother country, are 
taxed with the laws of consulage. Au reste, I 
see no use in fighting this question in the news- 
papers, nor have I time. You may assure Dr. 
Lee, that to my heart and understanding the 
names of American and Englishman are synony- 
mous, and that as to any future taxation of 
America, I look upon it as near to impossible 
as the highest improbability can go. 

I hope that since he has opposed me where 
he thinks me wrong, he will be equally ready to 
assist me when he thinks me right. Besides the 
fallibility natural to us all, no man writes under 
so many disadvantages as I do. I cannot consult 
the learned, I cannot directly ask the opinion 
of my acquaintance, and in the newspapers I 
never am assisted. 

Those who are conversant with books, well 
know how often they mislead us, when we have 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *331 


not a living monitor at hand to assist us in com- 
paring practice with theory. 


N°? SO. 
TO JUNIUS. 


SIR, Prince’s Court, Wednesday, Noo. 6. 

I po not delay a moment giving you 

the information you wish. I enclose a copy 
of Eyre’s commitment. Nothing else in this 
business has been reduced to writing. The exa- 
mination was before the sitting justice, Alder- 
man Hallifax, at Guildhall; and it is not usual to 
take it in writing, on account of the multiplicity 
of business there. The paper was found upon 
him. He was asked what he had to say in his 
defence, his answer was, I hope you will bail 
me. Mr. Holder, the clerk, answered, that is 
impossible. ‘There never was an instance of it, 
when the person was taken in the fact, or the 
goods found upon him. I believe Holder’s law 
is right. Alderman Hallifax likewise granted a 
search warrant prior to the examination. At 
Eyre’s lodgings many more quires of paper were 
found, all marked on purpose, from a suspicion 
of Eyre. After Eyre had been some time at 
Wood Street Compter, a key was found in his 
room there, which appears to be a key to the 


¥*332 PRIVATE LETTERS. 


closet at Guildhall, from whence the paper was 
stolen. The Lord Mayor refused to bail Eyre, 
but I do not find that any fresh examination was 
taken at the Mansion-house. ‘The circumstances 
were well known. I was present at the examina- 
tion before Hallifax, but as sheriff could not in- 
terfere, only I whispered Hallifax he could not 
bail Eyre. Anglus in to-day’s Public Advertiser 
told some particulars I had mentioned. I did 
not know of that letter; it is Mr. Bernard’s of 
Berkeley Square. As to the Americans, I de- 
clare I know no difference between an inhabi- 
tant of Boston in Lincolnshire, and of Boston 
in New England. I honour the Americans; but 
our ancestors who staid and drove out the tyrant, 
are justly greater in merit and fame than those 
who fled and deserted their countrymen. ‘Their 
future conduct has been a noble atonement, and 
their sons have much surpassed them. I will 
mention to Dr. Lee what you desire. You 
shall have every communication you wish from 
me. Yet I beg Junrus to reflect a moment, 
To whom am I now writing? I am all doubt 
and uncertainty, though not mistrust or suspi- 
cion. I should be glad to canvass freely every 
part of a great plan. I dare not write it to a 
man I do not know, of whose connexions I am 
totally ignorant. I differ with Junius in one 
point: I think by being concealed he has infi- 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *333 


nite advantages which I want. I am on the 
Indian coast, where, from the fire kindled round 
me, I am marked out to every hostile arrow 
which knows its way tome. ‘Those who are in 
the dark are safe, from the want of direction of 
the pointless shaft. I followed Juntus’s advice 
about the card on the anniversary of the King’s 
accession. I dropped the idea. I wish to know 
his sentiments about certain projects against the 
usurped powers of the House of Lords. The 
business is too vast to write, too hazardous to 
communicate to an unktiown person. Junius 
will forgive me. What can be done ?—** Alas!” 
where is the man after all Wilkes has experi- 
enced, in whose friendly bosom he can repose 
his secret thoughts, his noble but most dangerous 
designs? The person most capable he can have 
no access to, and all others he will not trust. I 
stand alone, iso/é as the French call it, a single 
column unpropped, and perhaps nodding to its 


fall. 
JOHN WILKES. 


oD. 
9 November, 1771. 
Tam much obliged to you for your 
information about Eyre. The facts are as I uns 


KQ 


334. PRIVATE LETTERS. 


derstood them, and, with the blessing of God, 
I will pull Mansfield to the ground. 

Your offer to communicate your plan against 
the Lords was voluntary. Do now as you think 
proper. I have no resentments but against the 
common enemy, and will assist you in any way 
that you will suffer yourself to be assisted. When 
you have satisfied your understanding that there 
may be reasons why Junius should attack the 
King, the minister, the court of King’s Bench, 
and the House of Commons, in the way that I 
have done, and yet should desert or betray the 
man who attacks the House of Lords, 1 would 
still appeal to your heart. Or if you have any 
scruples about that kind of evidence, ask that 
amiable daughter whom you so implicitly con- 
fide in—TJs it possible that Junius should betray 
me2 Do not conceive that I solicit new em- 
ployment. I am overcome with the slavery of 
writing. 
Farewell. 


N° 89, 


Prince’s Court, near Storey’s Gate, Westminster, 
* Wednesday, January 15, 1772. 


TO JUNIUS. 
A NECEssary attention to my health 
engrossed my time entirely in the few holidays 
q 


JUNIUS AND Mr. WILKES. *335 


I spent at Bath, and I am rewarded with being 
perfectly recovered. ‘The repairs of the clay 
cottage, to which I am tenant for life, seem to 
have taken place very successfully; and the 
building will probably last a few more. years in 
tolerable condition. 

Yesterday I met the Supporters of the Bill 
of Rights at the London Tavern. Much dis- 
course passed about the publication of Juntus’s 
letter. Dr. Lee and Mr. Watkin Lewes, who were 
both suspected, fully exculpated themselves. I 
believe the publication was owing to the indis- 
cretion of Mr. Patrick Cawdron, a linendraper 
in Cheapside, who shewed it to his partner on 
the Saturday. The partner copied it on the Sun- 
day, and the Monday following it appeared in 
the Morning Chronicle. The Gazetteer only 
copied it from thence. ‘The Society directed a 
disavowal of their publication of it to be sent to 
you, and are to take the letter into consideration 
at the next meeting. I forgot to mention that 
Mr. Cawdron keeps the papers of the Society. 

_ The winter campaign will begin with the 
next week. I believe that the sheriffs will have 
the old battle renewed with the Commons, and 
I suppose the lord mayor and the courtly alder- 
men will commit the printer for us to release. 
Another scene will probably open with the 
Lords. Junius has observed, “ the arbitrary 
power they have assumed of imposing fines, and 


*336 . PRIVATE LETTERS. 


committing during pleasure, will now be exer- 
cised in its fullest extent.’’ ‘The progress of the 
business I suspect will be this—a bitter libel 
against Pomfret, Denbigh, or Talbot, attack- 
ing the peer personally, not in his legislative or 
judicial capacity, will appear. His Lordship, 
passion’s slave, will complain to the House. 
They will order the printer into custody and set 
a heavy fine. ‘The Sheriffs the next morning 
will go to Newgate, examine the warrant of 
commitment, and, like the angel to Peter, take 
the prisoner by the hand and conduct him out 
of prison; afterwards they will probably make 
their appeal to the public against the usurpation 
of their Lordships, and their entirely setting 
aside the power of juries in their proceedings. 
Are there more furious wild beasts to be 
found in the upper den than the three I have 
named? Miller, the printer of the London 
Evening Post, at No. 2, Queen’s Head Passage, : 
Paternoster Row, is the best man I know for 
this business. He will print whatever is sent 
him. He isa fine Oliverian soldier. I intend 
a manifesto with my name on Monday to give 
spirit to the printers, and to shew them who 
will be their protector. I foresee it will make 
the two houses more cautious, but it is necessary 
for our friends, and the others shall be baited 


till they are driven into the snare. Adieu. 
JOHN WILKES. 


DEDICATION 


TO THE 


ENGLISH NATION. 


I pepicate to You a collection of 
Letters, written by one of Yourselves for the 
common benefit of us all. They would never 
have grown to this size, without Your continued 
encouragement and applause*. To me they 
originally owe nothing, but a healthy, sanguine 
constitution. Under Your care they have thriven. 
To You they are indebted for whatever strength 
or beauty they possess. When Kings and Mi- 
nisters are forgotten, when the force and di- 
rection of personal satire is no longer under- 


* See Private Letters, No. 5. in which the author, shortly 
after his appearance before the public under the signature of 
Junius, expresses an intention to discontinue writing under 
that name; nor would he in all probability have persevered, 
but for the reason assigned above. EDIT. 

VOL. I. B 


2 DEDICATION. 


stood, and when measures are only felt in their 
remotest consequences, this book will, I believe, 
be found to contain principles, worthy to be 
transmitted to posterity. When You leave the 
unimpaired, hereditary freehold to Your child- 
ren, You do but half Your duty. Both lberty 
and property are precarious, unless the posses- 
sors have sense and spirit enough to defend 
them.—This is not the language of vanity. If 
I am a vain man, my gratification lies within a 
narrow circle. I am the sole depositary of my 
own secret, and it shall perish with me*. 

If an honest, and, I may truly affirm, a la- 
borious zeal for the public service has given 
me any weight in Your esteem, let me exhort 
and conjure You never to suffer an invasion 
of Your political constitution, however mi- 
nute the instance may appear, to pass by, 
without a determined, persevering resistance. 
One precedent creates another. They soon ac- 


* This must be understood only in general terms. From the 
following passage in Private Letters, No. 8. it is obvious that 
there were persons to whom the writer unbosomed himself ; 
although there is still every reason for believing that such per- 
sons formed, as he has expressed it above, only a narrow circle. 
—‘ The last letter you printed was idle and improper, and, 
I assure you, printed against my own opinion. The truth is 
there are people about me, whom I would wish not to contradict» 
and who had rather see Junius in the papers, ever so. improperly, 
than not at all.” EDIT. 


DEDICATION. 3 


eumulate, and constitute law. What yesterday 
was fact, to-day is doctrine. Examples are sup- 
posed to justify the most dangerous measures, 
and where they do not suit exactly, the defect 
is supplied by analogy.—Be assured that the 
laws, which protect us in our civil rights, grow 
out of the constitution, and that they must fall 
or flourish with it. This is not the cause of fac- 
tion, or of party, or of any individual, but the 
common interest of every man in Britain. Al- 
though the King should continue to support his 
present system of government, the period is 
not very distant, at which You will have the 
means of redress in Your own power. It may 
be nearer perhaps than any of us expect, and I 
would warn You to be prepared for it. The 
King may possibly be advised to dissolve the 
present parliament.a year or two before it ex- 
pires of course, and precipitate a new election, 
in hopes of taking the nation by surprize. If 
such a measure be in agitation, this very caution 
may defeat or prevent it*. 


* The object to have been accomplished by obtaining a new 
parliament does not appear to have been of sufficient force to 
have precipitated such a measure ; ; and was, in consequence, 
relinquished : on which account the parliament in question was 
not dissolved till September 30th, 1774, after having existed six 
years, four months, and twenty-one days. Many of the letters 
of Junius turning upon the elective franchise, and the necessity 
of triennial parliaments, the reader’ may not be displeased to 

B 2 see, 


4 DEDICATION. 


I cannot doubt that You will unanimously 
assert the freedom of election, and vindicate 
Your exclusive right to choose Your representa- 
tives. But other questions have been started, 
on which Your determination should be equally 
clear and unanimous. Let it be impressed upon 
Your minds, let it be instilled into Your children, 
that the liberty of the press is the Palladium of 
all the civil, political, and religious rights of an 
Englishman, and that the right of juries to re- 
turn a general verdict, in all cases whatsoever, 
is an essential part of our constitution, not to 
be controuled or limited by the judges, nor in 


see, at one view, the respective dates of the dissolution and re- 
assembling of the several parliaments during the present reign. 


Met. Dissolved. Existed. 

eg RO 

26 Oct. 1760 20 March 1761 0 4 2 

19 May 1761 11 March 1768 6 9 2 

10 May 1768 30 Sept. 1774 6 4 Qi 

29 Nov. 1774 1Sept. 1780 a a 

31 Oct. 1780 25 March 1784 3. 4 96 

18 May 1784 11 June 1790 6 O 2% 

10 Aug. 1790 20 May 1796 be ee 
12 July 1796 31 Dec. 1800+ 

uNniTED kinGpom, G. B, & I. ts 11, 18 


22 Jan. 1801 29 June 1802 
31 Aug. 1802 24 Oct. 1806 4 2 25 
15 Dec. 1806 Q9April 1807 0 4 WS 
22 June 1807 

} Stat. 39-40 Geo, IIL, c, 67. Art. 4. EDIT. 


DEDICATION. 5 


any shape questionable by the legislature. The 
power of King, Lords, and Commons is not an 
arbitrary power*. They are the trustees, not 
the owners of the estate. The fee-simple is in 
US. They cannot alienate, they cannot waste. 
When we say that the legislature is supreme, we 
mean that it is’ the highest power known to the 
constitution :—that it is the highest in com- 
parison with the other subordinate powers es- 
tablished by the laws. In this sense, the word 
supreme is relative, not absolute. The power 
of the legislature is limited, not only by the 
general rules of natural justice, and the welfare 
of the community, but by the forms and prin- 


* This positive denial, of an arbitrary power being vested 
in the legislature, is not in fact a new doctrine. When the Earl 
of Lindsey, in the year 1675, brought a bill into the house of 
lords, To prevent the dangers, which might arise from persons 
disaffected to government, by which an oath and penalty was 
to be imposed upon the members of both houses, it was affirm- 
ed, in a protest signed by twenty-three lay-peers, (my lords 
the bishops were not accustomed to protest) ‘That the privi- 
lege of sitting and voting in parliament was an honour they 
had by birth, anda right so inherent in them, and inseparable 
from them, that nothing could take it away, but what, by the 
law of the land, must withal take away their lives, and corrupt 
their blood.””—These noble peers, (whose names are a re- 
proach to their posterity) have, in this instance, solemnly de- 
nied the power of parliament to alter the constitution. Under 
a particular proposition, they have asserted a general truth, in 
which every man in England is concerned. 


6 DEDICATION. 
ciples of our particular constitution. If this 
doctrine be not true, we must admit, that King, 
Lords, and Commons have no rule to direct 
their resolutions, but merely their own will and 
pleasure. They might unite the legislative and 
executive power in the same hands, and dissolve 
the constitution by an act of parliament. But 
I am persuaded You will not leave it to the 
choice of seven hundred persons, nétoriously 
corrupted by the crown, whether seven millions 
of their equals shall be freemen or slaves. The 
certainty of forfeiting their own rights, when 
they sacrifice those of the nation, is fio coven 
upon. the serbiigtet concession made to Herry 
the eighth, there are instances, in the history 
of other countries, of a formal, deliberate sur- 
render of the public liberty into the hands of 
the sovereign. If England does not share the 
same fate, it is because we have better resources, 
than in the virtue of either house of parliament. 
I said that the liberty of the press is the palla- 
dium of all Your rights, and that the right of ju- 
ries to return a general verdict is part of Your 
constitution. ‘To preserve the whole system, 
You must correct Your legislature. With regard 
to any influence of the constituent over the 
conduct of the representative, there is little dif- 
ference between a seat in parliament for seven 


DEDICATION. 7 


years and a seat for life. The prospect of Your 
resentment is too remote ; and although the last 
session of a septennial parliament be usually 
employed in courting the favour of the people, 
consider that, at this rate, Your representatives 
have six years for offence, and but one for atone- 
ment. <A death-bed repentance seldom reaches 
to restitution. If you reflect that in the changes 
of administration, which have marked and dis- 
graced the present reign, although your warmest 
patriots have in their turn been invested with 
the lawful and unlawful authority of the crown, 
and though other reliefs or improvements have 
been held forth to the people, yet that no one 
man in office has ever promoted or encouraged 
a bill for shortening the duration of parliaments, 
but that, (whoever was minister) the opposition 
to this measure, ever since the septennial act 
passed, has been constant and uniform on the 
part of government,—You cannot but conclude, 
without the possibility of a doubt, that long 
parliaments are the foundation of the undue in- 
fluence of the crown. ‘This influence answers 
every purpose of arbitrary power to the crown, 
with an expence and oppression to the people, 
which would be unnecessary in an arbitrary go- 
vernment. The best of our ministers find it the 
easiest and most compendious mode of con- 
ducting the King’s affairs; and all ministers 


8 DEDICATION~ 


have a general interest in adhering to a system, 
which of itself is sufficient to support them in 
office, without any assistance from personal 
virtue, popularity, labour, abilities, or experi- 
ence. It promises every gratification to avarice 
and ambition, and secures impunity.——These 
are truths unquestionable.—If they make no im- 
pression, it is because they are too vulgar and 
notorious. But the inattention or indifference 
of the nation has continued too long. You are 
roused at last to a sense of Your danger.—The 
remedy will soon be in Your power. . If Junius 
lives, You shall often be reminded of it. If, 
when the opportunity presents itself, You neglect 
to do Your duty to Yourselves and to posterity, 
—to God and to Your country, I shall have one 
consolation left, in common with the meanest’ 
and basest of mankind.—Civil liberty may still 
last the life of 
JUNIUS. 


PREFACE. 


THE encouragement given to a mul- 
titude of spurious, mangled publications of the 
letters of Junius, persuades me, that a complete 
edition, corrected and improved by the author, 
will be favourably received. ‘The printer will 
readily acquit me of any view to my own profit*. 
I undertake this troublesome task, merely to 
serve a man who has deserved well of me, and 
of the public; and who, on my account, has 
been exposed to an expensive, tyrannical prose- 
cution. For these reasons, I give to Mr. Henry 
Sampson Woodfall, and to him alone, my right, 
interest, and property in these letters, as fully 
and completely, to all intents and purposes, as 
an author can possibly convey his property in 
his own works to another. 

This edition contains all the letters of Junius, 
Philo Junius, and of Sir William Draper and 
Mr. Horne to Junius, with their respective 


* See Private Letters, No. 59. and note appended to it. 
EDIT. 


10 PREFACE. 


dates, and according to the order in which they 
appeared in the Public Advertiser*. The aux- 
iliary part of Philo Junius was indispensably 
necessary to defend or explain particular pas- 
sages in Junius, in answer toplausible objections ; 
but the subordinate character is never guilty of 
the indecorum of praising his principal. The 
fraud was innocent, and I always intended to 
explain itt. The notes will be found not only 
useful, but necessary. References to facts not 
generally known, or allusions to the current 
report or opinion of the day, are in a little time 
unintelligible. Yet the reader will not find him- 
self overloaded with explanations. I was not 
born to be a commentator, even upon my own 
works. 

It remains to say a few words upon the 
liberty of the press. The daring spirit, by 
which these letters are supposed to be distin- 
guished, seems to require that something serious 
should be said in their defence. J ‘am no 


* From this order there are two or three deviations, but 
too trivial to be worth pointing out. Eprr. 

+ It was, in point of fact, publicly avowed by the author, 
in the following notice inserted in the Public Advertiser 
October 20, 1771: 

« We have the author’s consent to say, that the letters, 
published in this paper under the signature of Philo Junius, 
are written by Junius.” Ep1T. 


PREFACE. il 


lawyer by profession, nor do I pretend to be 
more deeply read, than every English gentle- 
man should be in the laws of his country. If 
therefore the principles I maintain are truly 
constitutional, I shall not think myself answer- 
ed, though I should be convicted of a mistake 
in terms, or of misapplying the language of the 
law. I speak to the plain understanding of the 
people, and appeal to their honest, liberal con- 
struction of me. 

Good men, to whom alone I address myself, 
appear to me to consult their piety as little 
as their judgment and experience, when they 
admit the great and essential advantages ac- 
cruing to society from the freedom of the press, 
yet indulge themselves in peevish or passionate 
exclamations against the abuses of it. Betray- 
ing an unreasonable expectation of benefits, 
pure and intire, from any human institution, 
they in effect arraign the goodness of Provi- 
dence, and confess that they are dissatisfied 
with the common lot of humanity. In the 
present instance they really create to their 
own minds, or greatly exaggerate the evil they 
complain of. ‘The laws of England provide, as 
effectually as any human laws can do, for the 
protection of the subject, in his reputation, as 
well as in his person and property. If the 
characters of private men are insulted or in- 


12 PREFACE. 


jured, a double remedy is open to them, by actzon 
and indictment. If, through indolence, false 
shame, or indifference, they will not appeal to 
the laws of their country, they fail in their duty 
to society, and are unjust to themselves. If, 
from an unwarrantable distrust of the integrity 
of juries, they would wish to obtain justice by 
any mode of proceeding, more summary than 
a trial by their peers, I do not scruple to affirm, 
that they are in effect greater enemies to them- 
selves, than to the libeller they prosecute. 
With regard to strictures upon the characters 
of men in office and the measures of government, 
the case is a little different. A considerable lati- 
tude must be allowed in the discussion of public 
affairs, or the liberty of the press will be of no 
benefit to society. As the indulgence of private 
malice and personal slander should be checked 
and resisted by every legal means, so a constant 
examination into the characters and conduct 
of ministers and magistrates should be equally 
promoted and encouraged. ‘They, who con- 
ceive that our news papers are no restraint upon 
bad men, or impediment to the execution of 
bad measures, know nothing of this country. 
In that state of abandoned servility and prosti- 
tution, to which the undue influence of the 
crown has reduced the other branches of the 
legislature, our ministers and magistrates have 


PREFACE. 15 


in reality little punishment to fear, and few 
difficulties to contend with, beyond the censure 
of the press, and the spirit of resistance, which 
it excites among the people. While this cen- 
sorial power is maintained, to speak in the words 
of a most ingenious foreigner, both minister 
and magistrate is compelled, in almost every 
instance, to choose between his duty and his repu- 
tation. A dilemma of this kind, perpetually 
before him, will not indeed work a miracle 
upon his heart, but it will assuredly operate, in 
some degree, upon his conduct. At all events, 
these are not times to admit of any relaxation 
in the little discipline we have left. 

- But it is alledged, that the licentiousness 
of the press is carried beyond all bounds of 
decency and truth;—that our excellent mi- 
nisters are continually exposed to the public 
hatred or derision;—that, in prosecutions for 
libels on government, juries are partial to the 
popular side; and that, in the most flagrant 
cases, a verdict cannot be obtained for the 
King.—If the premises were admitted, I should 
deny the conclusion. It is not true that the 
temper of the times has, in general, an undue 
influence over the conduct of juries. On the 
contrary, many signal instances may be pro- 
duced of verdicts returned for the King, when 
the inclinations of the people led strongly to 


14 PREFACE. 


an undistinguishing opposition to government. 
Witness the cases of Mr. Wilkes and Mr. 
Almon*, In the late prosecutions of the printers 
of my address to a great personage, the juries 
were never fairly dealt. with.— Lord Chief Justice 
Mansfield, conscious that the paper in question 
contained no treasonable or libellous matter, 
and that the severest parts of it, however painful 
to the King, or offensive to his servants, were © 
strictly true, would fain have restricted the jury 
to the finding of special facts, which, as to 
guilty or not guilty, were merely indifferent. 
This particular motive, combined « with his 
general purpose to contract the power of juries, 
will account for the charge he delivered in 
Woodfalls trialt. He told the jury, in so many 


* The case of Wilkes here alluded to is his prosecution, 
for having written an obscene parody on Pope’s Essay on Man, 
which he called “ An Essay on Woman.” Alrnon was prose- 
cuted merely for having sold in a magazine entitled The 
London Museum, which -he did not. print; a transcript of 
Junius’s letter to the King, first published in the Public 
Advertiser, and thence copied into a variety of other news- 
papers. And the result was a verdict against him, although 
it did not appear to the court that he was privy to the sale, 
or eyen knew that’ the magazine, sold at his shop, con- 
tained the letter to the King. Epur. 

+ Memorable as this charge is on various accounts, and 
especially as having laid the foundation for a very. warm and 
animated discussion both in and out of parliament, it is ve 
extraordinary that it is no where reported in our senatorial 

documents, 


PREFACE, 15 


words, that they had nothing to. determine, 
except the fact of printing and publishing, and 
whether or no the blanks or innuendoes were 
properly filled up in the information;—but that, 


documents, and is indeed difficult to be obtained from any 
other quarter. The fact is, that although it was laid by 
Lord Mansfield on the table, in the house of lords, when 
summoned at his request to take it into consideration, yet as 
he did not make any express motion upon the subject, it was 
not entered into the journals, and was only left with the 
clerk for any noble lord to take a copy of it, who was 
desirous of doing so. The reader, therefore, will feel gratified 
by being put into possession of the charge, together with 
Lord Camden’s interrogatories in regard to it, proposed to the 
Lord Chief Justice in his proper place in the upper house, and 
to which the latter did not chuse to make any reply. To 
these it may be also advantageous to subjoin a summary of the 
speeches of the late Mr. Fox and Mr, Burke upon the same 
subject, when introduced into the House of Commons, as 
containing, in a condensed form, the argument of the opposite 
sides of the question. Mr. Fox, it is well known, was, at 
this period, in favour of the ministry; but the political error 
he then laboured under, he nobly redeemed a few years 
afterwards, and amply atoned for to the public, by the 
excellent and truly constitutional bill “to remove doubts re- 
specting the functions of juries in cases of libel,”’ introduced 
into the senate in the session of 1791, as more particularly 
noticed in another part of this work, and which, by his  in- 
defatigable perseverance was at length carried through the 
legislature, has nullified Lord Mansfield’s doctrine, and set 

the important ‘question completely at rest. 
Mr. Woodfall, as a party concerned, modestly forbore to 
offer any statement of this celebrated trial in the Public 
6 Adver« 


ee 


16 PREFACE. 


whether the defendant had committed a crimé 
or not, was no matter of consideration to twelve 
men, who yet, upon their oaths, were to pro- 
nounce their peer guilty, or not guilty. When 


Advertiser, in consequence of which the writer is obliged to 
avail himself of the following extract, though very imperfectly 
given, fram a contemporary journal. 


An account of the trial at Guildhall of the original publisher of 
Junivs’s Letter to the King. 

Yesterday morning, [June I3, 1770,] about nine o’clock, 
came on before Lord Mansfield, in the Court of King’s-bench 
at Guildhall, the trial of Mr. Woodfall, the original printer 
of Juntus’s letter in the Public Advertiser of December 19. 
Only seven of the special jury attended, viz. William Bond, 
foreman; Peter Cazalet, Alexander Peter Allen, Frederick 
Commerell, Hermen Meyer, John Thomas, and Barrington 
Buggin. 

Upon which the following five talesmen were taken out of 
the box, viz. William Hannard, Paul Verges, William Sibley, 
William Willett, and William Davis. 

The trial was opened by Mr. Wallis. 

Nathaniel Crowder swore he bought the paper of Mr, 
Woodfall’s publishing servant, whom he named. 

Mr. Harris proved that the duty for the advertisements and 
stamps were paid by Mr. Woodfall. And 

A Clerk of Sir John Fielding’s proved, by a receipt from 
Mr. Woodfall, his concern in and for the paper. 

The publication and direction of the paper by Mr. Woodfall 
being thus proved, 

Lord Mansfield, in his charge, told the jury, That there 
were only two points for their consideration: the first the 
printing and publishing the paper in question; the second, 
the sense and meaning of it: That as to the charges of its 

being 


PREFACE. 17 


we hear such nonsense delivered from the bench, 
and find it supported by a laboured train’ of 


being malicious, seditious, &c. they were inferences in law 
about which no evidence need be given, any more than that 
part of an ndictment need be proved by evidence, which 
charges a man with being moved by the instigation of the 
Devil: ‘That therefore the printing and sense of the paper 
were alone what the jury had to consider of; and that if the 
paper should really contain no breach of the law, that was 
a matter which might afterwards be moved in arrest of judg- 
ment: That he had no evidence to sum up to them, as the 
defendant’s counsel admitted the printing and publication to 
be well proved: That as to the’sense, they had not called in 
doubt the manner in which the dashes in the paper were 
filled up in the record, by giving any other sense to the 
passages ; if they had, the jury would have been to consider 
which application was the true one, that charged in the infor- 
mation, or suggested by the defendant. That the jury might 
now compare the paper with the information: That if they 
did not find the application wrong, they must find the de- 
fendant guilty, and if they did find it wrong, they must 
acquit him: That this was not the time for alleviation or 
aggravation, that being for future consideration: That every 
subject was under the controul of the law, and had a right to 
expect from it protection for his person, his property, and 
his good name: That if any man offended the laws, he was 
amenable to them, and was not to be censured or punished, 
but in a legal course: That any person libelled had a right 
either to bring a civil or a criminal prosecution : That in the 
latter, which is hy information or indictment, it is immaterial 
whether the publication be false or true: That it is no defence 
to say it is true, because it is a breach of the peace, and 
therefore criminal; but ina civil prosecution, it is a defence to 
say the charges in the publication are trae ; because the plaintiff 


WOL, I. Cc there 


18 PREFACE. 


sophistry, which a plain understanding is un- 
able to follow, and which an unlearned jury, 


there sues only for a pecuniary satisfaction to himself; and 
that this is the distinction as to that nature of defence.—His 
Lordship said, he was afraid it was too true that few charac- 
ters in the kingdom escaped libels: That many were very 
injuriously treated—and if so, that the best way to prevent it 
was by an application to the law, which is open to every marr: 
That the liberty of the press consisted in every man having 
the power to publish his sentiments without first applying for 
a licence to any one; but if any man_ published what was 
against law, he did it at his peril, and was answerable for it 
in the same manner as he who suflers his hand to commit an 
assault, or his tongue to utter blasphemy.” 

Between eleven and twelve the jury withdrew; at four the 
court adjourned; and a little after nine the jury waited on 
Lord Mansfield at his house in Bloomsbury-square, with their 
verdict, which was Guilty of erintinG and pusLisHinc ONLY. 

This charge having been laid upon the table of the House 
of Lords, December 10, 1770, by the Lord Chief Justice, the 
following questions were put to him, in his place, by Lord 
Camden, on the day ensuing. 

1. Does the opinion mean to declare, that upon the Bi wie 
issue of Not Guilty, in the case of a seditious libel, the jury 
have no right, by law, to examine the innocence or criminality 
of the paper, if they think fit, and to form their verdict 
upon such examination ? 

2. Does the opinion mean to declare, that in the case 
abovementioned, when the jury have delivered in their verdict, 
Guilty, that this verdict has found the fact only and not the 
law ? 

3. Is it to be understood by this opinion, that if. the juay 
come to the bar, and say that they find the printing and 


publishing, but that the paper is no libel, that in. that case 
the 


PREFACE. 19 


however it may shock their reason, cannot be 
supposed qualified to refute, can it be wondered 


the jury have found the defendant guilty generally, and the 
verdict must be so entered up? 

4. Whether the opinion means to say, that if the judge, 
after giving his opinion of the innocence or criminality of the 
paper, should leave the consideration of that matter, together 
with the printing and publishing, to the jury, such a direction 
would be contrary to law? 

5. I beg leave to ask, whether dead and living judges, then 
absent, did declare their opinions in open court, and whether 
the noble Lord has any note of such opinions ? 

6. Whether they declared such opinions, after solid argu- 
ments, or upon any point judicially before them ? 

To these queries Lord Mansfield made no reply, briefly 
observing that he would not answer interrogatories. 

The subject was introduced into the lower house, December 
6, 1770, on a motion made by Mr. Serjeant Glynn. 
“ That a committee should be appointed to enquire into the 
administration of criminal justice, and the proceedings of the 
judges in Westminster-hall, particularly in cases relating to 
the Liberty of the Press, and the constitutional power and 
duty of juries.” 

In the course of the discussion, the speakers on both sides 
alluded not only to the charge in Mr. Woodfall’s case, but also 
to Mr. Baron Smythe’s conduct in trying a Scotch serjeant at 
Guildford, which will be found more particularly detailed in 
the Editor’s note to Junius’s Letter xvii. Amongst the chief 
speakers on this occasion were, as we have already observed, 
on the side of the ministry, Mr. Fox, and on that of the 
people, Mr. Burke. The following summary of their argu- 
ment, which in truth contains the general argument of the 
rest, is extracted from a. pamphlet entitled Vor Senatis, 
printed previous to the contest which soon afterwards ensued, 

Cc 2 between 


20 PREFACE. 


that they should return a verdict, perplexed, 
absurd, or imperfect?—Lord Mansfield has not 


between the House of Commons and the Printers, respecting 
the publication of parliamentary debates, and which, in a 
great measure, led the way to that controversy. The speeches 
in this pamphlet were altogether reported by the late Mr. 
Wm. Woodfall, whose strength of memory, nice accuracy 
and rigid impartiality, were equally subjects of admiration, and 
held in the highest veneration, by the members of both houses 
of parliament, to whatever party they might belong, during 
the many years that he continued to exercise his talents in that 
most laborious, and we trust we may add, most important 
branch of public duty. 

Mr. Fox spoke as follows :-— 

«We are told by the abettors of this motion, that jealousies, 
murmurs, and discontents encrease and multiply throughout 
the nation ; that the people are under terrible apprehensions 
that the law is perverted, the juries are deprived of their 
constitutional powers, that the courts ef justice are not sound 
and untainted; in a word, that the judges have, like a dozen 
of monstrous Patagonian giants, either swallowed, or are going 
to swallow up both law and gospel. And how do they prove 
the truth of these allegations? the manner is pleasant enough, 
They refer us to their own libellous remonstrances, and to 
those infamous lampoons and satires, which they have taken 
care to write and circulate. They modestly substitute them- 
selves in the place of the nation, and call their own complaints 
the grievances of England. Their meaning is plain enough, 
and we understand perfectly how all their grievances might be 
redressed. For my part I am not disposed to take the voice 
of a miserable faction for the voice of my country. Were the 
people really dissatisfied, I should be glad to know how I am 
to ascertain ‘the reality of that dissatisfaction? I must freely 
confess, that I know no other way but that of consulting this 

, House, 


PREFACE, 21 


yet explained to the world, why he accepted of a 
verdict, which the court afterwards set aside 


House. Here the people are represented, and here their 
voice expressed. There is no other criterion but the majority 
of this assembly, by which we can judge of their sentiments. 
This man, in order to answer one purpose, and that man, 
in order to answer another, will tell you that a general cry 
has gone abroad against certain men and measures, but will 
you be so credulous as to take him upon his word, when you 
can easily penetrate his interested views and find him the 
original and prime mover of all the clamour? I can easily 
trace the authors of the outcry raised against the judges ; and I 
would point them out, had not they, as well as their ‘selfish ends, 
been already exposed in all their deformity. Why then, 
should we hesitate to put a negative upon a question, which 
‘sprung from such a low source? from dirt it came, and to 
dirt let it return. As to myself, I certainly will, as I can 
never acknowledge for the voice of the nation, what is not 
echoed by the majority of the house ; and I do not find that 
the majority of us entertain any suspicions, much less terrible 
apprehensions, of the judges; though, if there were any just 
foundation for complaint, we must certainly have been better 
informed of it than the people. 

Indeed if the adoption of this enquiry would answer any 
good purpose, I should not be such a violent opposer, con- 
vineed as I am that the judges are blameless. But I am fully 
persuaded, that would not be the case. For as I have shewn, 
it would be an attempt to remove discontents which do not 
exist but among those who have generated, fostered, and 
reared them up to their present magnitude, and would not, 
therefore, be satisfied, though Justice, though Astrea herself, 
should descend naked from heaven to exculpate our judges. 
And what is more, it would, on their own principles, prove 
fruitless and nugatory, even if we suppose.the people to be 

really 


22 PREFACE. 


as illegal, and which, as it took no notice of 
the imnuendoes, did not even correspond with 


really discontented. For what have they been doing for 
these two last years, but ringing constantly in our ears the 
contempt in which we are held by the people? have they 
not made these walls echo with the terms of reproach, which 
they alledged were cast upon us by men of every degree, by 
high and low, rich and poor, learned and unlearned? were 
we not, and are we not still, according to their account, held 
in universal detestation and abhorrence ? does not the whole 
empire, from one end to the other, reckon us equally weak 
and wicked? in a word, are we not become an abomination 
in the land? such is the language of the minority. How can 
they, with a serious face, desire us to undertake this enquiry, 
in order to satisfy the people? the people, if their former 
assertions are to be credited, will receive no good at our hands. 
They will regard what we say no more than a knot of coffee- 
house politicians. We are too ridiculous as well as odious, to 
do any thing that will appear gracious in their eyes. What is 
the conclusion to be drawn? let us satisfy ourselves. Let us 
act according to the dictates of honour and conscience, and be 
at peace with our own minds. It is thus that we shall sooner 
or later regain the confidence of our constituents, if we have 
lost it; and not by humouring, as foolish nurses humour great 
lubberly boys, the wayward whims of a misled multitude. 
The characteristic of this house, should be a firm and manly 
steadiness, an unshaken perseverance in the pursuit of great 
and noble plans of general utility, and not a wavering incon- 
stant fluctuation of counsels regulated by the shifting of the 
popular breeze. If we are not to judge for ourselves, but to 
be ever at the command of the vulgar, and their capricious 
shouts and hisses, I cannot see what advantage the nation can 
reap from a representative body, which they might not have 
reaped from a tumultuous assembly of themselves, collected 

6 at 


PREFACE. 23 


his own charge. If he had known his duty he 
should have sent the jury back.—I speak ad- 


at random on Salisbury Plain or Runningmede. And it is 
very well known, that such an irregular and riotous crowd 
are but very ill qualified to judge truly of their own interest, 
er to pursue it, even when they form a right judgment. 
They are but very unsteady guardians of liberty and property. 
Do you want proofs? consult the English history, and you 
will find them in every page.” 


Mr. Burke, in answer to Mr. Fox, and in support of the 
motion, spoke as follows :— 

“ The subject of our present debate; is in my opinion, a 
matter of a very serious and important nature ; and it is not 
therefore to be dismissed without mature deliberation. The 
honourable gentleman who introduced it, boldly arraigns 
the general conduct of our courts of justice ; and the gentle- 
man who seconded him, as boldly arraigns the conduct of a 
particular judge. Either charge should be alone sufficient to 
excite our closest attention. What effect ought then both in 
conjunction to produce ? they ought to impel us, if not to en- 
quiry, at least to a minute and elaborate discussion. For what 
has the mover of the question arraigned? he has arraigned 
the general principles of jurisprudence now adopted by our 
judges, and has, in his way, proved them not only unconstitu- 
tional, but illegal. He has laid before you two heads of accu- 
sation, two points, in which he conceives the judges have not 
done their duty. These two points are @ rule of law and a 
rule of evidence authorised, as he asserts, neither by precedent 
nor by the spirit of liberty. First he tells you that judges act 
illegally and unconstitutionally, in directing juries not to take 
cognizance of the malice or iunocence of a culprit’s intention 
in cases of libels; and secondly he tells you, that in cases of 
libels, they act illegally and unconstitutionally in acquainting 

the 


24 PREFACE. 


visedly, and am well assured that no lawyer 
ot character, in Westminster-hall, will contra- 


the jury that the law infers guilt from the prima facie evidence ; 
a position by which masters become, even in criminal cases, re- 
sponsible for the conduct of their servants. 

These are the doctrines which be arraigns, and which are 
nowy in issue before you. He asserts that they are not sanction- 
ed by precedent. But here his reading seems not to have been 
sufficiently extensive. There are precedents, and those too, I 
fear, of too much weight and authority. You have heard 
Lord Chief Justice Raymond’s words quoted, and nothing can 
be more explicit, than they are in favour of these doctrines: 
What! you will say can these be the doctrines of Lord Ray- 
mond, and yet be unknown to the learned serjeant? Why it 
is impossible. A case so much in point could never escape his 
industry and learning: and to render the thing certain, he 
gives the assertion a flat contradiction. But I say that it is not 
only possible and probable, but certain; and let me tell you, 
that the way to overturn the credit of grave and universally 
esteemed historians, is not to give them a flat contradiction. 
The most positive asseverations of a modern go for nothing, 
when they are unsupported by the contradictory testimony of 
some ancient contemporary author. Was this heresy then 
adopted as an article of faith, by Raymond? Yes, sir, it was; 
the fact is too clear, too well known, to bear dispute. Nor 
was it an innovation introduced by that great judge. No; he 
received it as a legacy from still greater judges, and among the 
rest, from the very bulwark of the revolution, Lord Holt. 

But what though this opinion has been sanctioned by a series 
of precedents; what though it has been embraced by men as 
deep skilled in law and casuistry as remarkable for inflexible 
patriotism ; have not the greatest lawyers, the profoundest 
casuists, and the staunchest patriots erred? Why then should 
the judges be thought exempted from the common lot of 

humanity ? 


PREFACE, 25 


dict me. To shew the falsehood of Lord 
Mansfield’s doctrine, it is not necessary to enter 


humanity? Why should they be deemed infallible more 
than other mortals? believe me, the wisdom of the whole 
nation can see farther than the sages of Westminster Hall. In 
a constitutional point, like this, the collective knowledge and 
penetration of the people at large are more to be depended on 
than the boasted discernment of all the bar. The reason is 
clear. Their eyes are not dazzled by the prospect of an oppo- 
site interest. The crown has no lure sufficiently tempting to 
make them forget themselves and the general good. 

Why then should not we on this occasion, listen to their 
voice, as it is heard sufficiently loud and distinct ? because, for- 
sooth, they have no voice! because their sentiments are only to 
be gathered from the determinations of the majority of this 
House ! because after a general election is closed, they have no 
legal existence, and have therefore no other mouth but that of 
their representatives ! Strange doctrine ! What then is become of 
petitioning? Are they not legally intitled to that right ? You 
cannot deny it without denying the authority of the Bill of 
Rights. How then can you pretend that they have no legal 
voice, but that of their representatives ? they have both a real 
and a legal voice, and they have uttered that voice. Consult 
the History of the reign of George the third. 1n that perform- 
ance, which will be an everlasting monument of the folly, in- 
capacity, and pernicious politics of our late and present minis- 
ters, you will find it demonstrated, that the majority of 
Englishmen have petitioned the King, and have consequently 
expressed their own sentiments by their own mouth, without 
the intervention of their deputies. By what rule then does the 
majority of this House square its conduct, when it acts in 
direct opposition to the majority of the people? by that rule of 
arithmetic, which by its almighty fiat, overturned the laws 
ef nature, decreed 296 to be greater than 1146, gave us 

Colonel 


26 PREFACE. 


into the merits of the paper which produced 
the trial. If every line of it were treason, his 


Colonel Luttrell for John Wilkes, a cuckoo in a magpy’s nest 
to suck its eggs. 

That there should be found gentlemen, who would annihilate 
the people, and acknowledge no other voice but that of this 
House, is to me not at all surprising! because the conduct of 
the most violent sticklers for this doctrine, has not deserved 
much applause or favour from them. But that they should 
have renounced reason and common sense, so far as to maintain 
that the majority of this assembly is the only organ, by which 
their sentiments can be expressed, is to me truly surprising : 
for where in the name of wonder, should the House acquire 
the necessary knowledge or intelligence ? is it by turning over 
these musty volumes, or by rummaging these gaudy boxes 
which lie on your table ? no; they contain none of these mys- 
teries. How then are they to be explored ? Is there any virtue 
or inspiration in these benches or cushions, by which they are 
communicated ? or does the echo of these walls whisper the 
secret in your ears? No; but the echo of every other wall, 
the murmur of every stream, the shouts, ay, and the hoots 
and hisses of every street in the nation ring it in your ears, and 
deafen you with their din. Deafen you did I say? alas! you 
were deaf before, or rather dead, else you would have heard ; 
for their voice is loud enough to waken almost the dead. For 
shame, gentlemen, let us hear no more such weak reasonings 
and sophistical refinements. Far from producing conviction, they 
cannot even extort a smile, except peradventure at the author, 
who resembles a hunter, that would catch an elephant in toils 
made of cobweb. The people have a voice of their own, and 
it must, nay it will be sooner or later heard ; and I, as in duty 
bound, will always exert every nerve, and every power, of 
which I am master, to hasten the completion of so desirable 
an event My reverence for the judges, against whom the 

popular 


PREFACE. 27 


charge to the jury would still be false, absurd, 
illegal, and unconstitutional. If I stated the 


popular cry is now so loud, will not deter me; because I 
know all judges are but men. Not only former judges, but 
juries have erred. Why not the present? Yes, sir, juries have 
erred, and they may err again. When they do, I shall be as 
ready to enquire into their conduct as I am now into that of 
the judges. Gentlemen may talk of their great respect for 
juries, and their readitiess to acquiesce in their determinations ; 
but Lam not disposed to be so complaisant, I will make no man 
nor any set of men a compliment of the constitution. It is too 
valuable an inheritance to be so lightly relinquished. When 
the actions of juries are praiseworthy, let them be applanded ; 
when they are criminal, let them be punished. Popularity 
should not be bought at so high a price. For my own part let 
the malicious and the ungenerous say what they will, lam a 
blind follower of no man, nor a bond slave to any party. I 
have always acted according to the best information of my 
judgment, and the clear dictates of my conscience. On this 
occasion I solemnly protest before God, that I entertain no 
personal enmity against any man, nor have I any interested 
schemes to promote. My sole object in supporting the proposed 
enquiry is the public welfare and the acquittal of the judges, 
for I am satisfied that an acquittal will be the consequence. In 
acting thus I think myself their best friend ; because no other 
plan will clear their character. Till this step is taken, in vain do 
they pretend to superior sanctity ; in vain do some gentlemen 
tread their halls as holy ground, or reverence their courts as 
the temples of the divinity. To the people they appear the tem- 
ples of idols, and false oracles, or rather as the dwellings of 
truth and justice, converted into dens of thieves and robbers. 
For what greater robbers can there be, than those who rob 
men of their laws and liberties?) No man has a greater vene- 
ration than I have for the doctors of the law ; and it is for that 

reason 


28 PREFACE. 


merits of my letter to the King, I should imitate 
Lorp MansFIeLp, and* TRAVEL OUT OF THE 


reason that I would thus render their characters pure and un- 
sullied as the driven snow. But will any of you pretend that 
this is at present the case? are not theirtemples profaned ? has 
not pollution entered them, and penetrated into the holy of holies ? 
Are not the priests suspected of being no better than those 
of Bell and the Dragon, or rather of being worse than those of 
Baal? and has not therefore the fire of the people’s wrath 
almost consumed them? The lightning has pierced the sanc- 
tuary, and rent the veil of their temple from the top even to 
the bottom. Nothing is whole, nothing is sound. The ten 
tables of the law are shattered and splintered. The ark of the 
covenant is lost, and passed into the hands of the uncireum- 
cised. Both they and ye are become an abomination unto 
the Lord. In order to wash away your sins, let Moses and 
the prophets ascend Mount Sinai, and bring us down the 
- second table of the law in thunder and hghtnings; for in 
thunder and lightnings the constitution was first, and must 
now be established. Let the judges mount up to the source 
of precedents and decisions, and trace the law clear and un- 
polluted along the stream of time, and the silent lapse of 
years. Let them march in procession to this house, ushered 
in by a long train of precedents and opinions,.and lay them 
all in a bundle in the middle of the room. Then, and not till 
then, will they stand justified. Then, and not till then, will 
you stand justified. In vain do you trust to the virtue of that 
furred gown, or to the magic of that bauble, as Cromwell 
truly called it. They confer neither real power, nor, what is 
often its parent, a fair character. These desirable possessions 
are acquired by an upright conduct, and the confidence of the 

people.” pir. 
* The following quotation from a speech delivered by Lord 
Chatham on the eleventh of December, 1770, is taken with 
exactness. 


PREFACE. 29 


RECORD. When law and reason speak plainly, 
we do not want authority to direct our under- 
standings. Yet, for the honour of the pro« 
fession, I am content to oppose one lawyer to 


exactness. The reader will find it curious in itself, and very 
fit to be inserted here. “ My Lords, the verdict, given in 
Woodfall’s trial, was guilty of printing and publishing onty ; 
upon which two motions were made in court ;—one, in arrest 
of judgment, by the defendant’s counsel, grounded upon the 
ambiguity of the verdict ;—the other, by the counsel for the 
crown, for a rule upon the defendant, to shew cause, why the 
verdict should not be entered up according to the /egal import 
of the words. On both motions, a rule was granted, and soon 
after the matter was argued before the court of King’s Bench. 
The noble judge, when he delivered the opinion of the court 
upon the verdict, went regularly through the whole of the 
proceedings at Nisi Prius, as well the evidence that had been 
given, as hisown charge to the jury. This proceeding would 
have been very proper, had a motion been made of either side 
for a new trial, because either a verdict given contrary to evi- 
dence, or an improper charge by the judge at Mist Prius, is 
held to be a sufficient ground for granting a new trial. But 
when a motion is made in arrest of judgment, or for establish- 
ing the verdict, by entering it up according to the legal import 
of the words, it must be on the ground of something appearing 
on the face of the record; and the court, in considering whether 
the verdict shall be established or not, are so confined to the 
record, that they cannot take notice of any thing that does not 
appear on the face of it ; in the legal phrase, they cannot travel 
out of the record. The noble judge did travel out of the record, 
and I affirm that his discourse was irregular, extrajudicial, and 
unprecedented. His apparent motive, for doing what he knew 


to be wrong, was, that he might have an opportunity of telling 
the 


30 PREFACE. 


another, especially when it happens that the 
King’s Attorney General has virtually disclaim- 
ed the doctrine by which the Chief Justice meant 
to insure success to the prosecution. The 


the public ertrajudicially, that the other three judges concurred 
in the doctrine laid down in his charge.” AuTHOR. 

The opinion of the court here referred to, was as follows ; 
and we give it as an extraordinary dictwm, not readily to be 
met with in the present day. It was delivered by the Lord 
Chief Justice Nov. 20, 1770. 

“This matter comes on before the court upon two rules, 
which have been obtained ; the one by the defendant’s coun- 
sel, to stay the entering up the interlocutory judgment in this 
cause ; the other by the Attorney General, to enter up the 
judgment according to the legal import of the verdict. In 
considering these rules, we are naturally led to begin with the 
last, because the last may decide the former; and in doing 
this, it will be previously necessary to state a report of the 
trial. ‘The defendant was tried for the printing and pub- 
lishing, in a paper called the Public Advertiser, a libel signed 
Junius; and in the information the tenor of the libel was set 
forth, with innuendoes, to complete the blanks, and with the 
usual epithets. (1.) The first witness, Crowder, proved the 
buying of the paper, which was produced, and twelve others, 
at the defendant’s printing-house, of his servant. (2.) Harris 
proved payments at the stamp-office, by the defendant, for the 
Public’ Advertiser, and that the duty for the stamp upon this 
paper was paid by the defendant’s servant. (3.) Lee, Sir 
John Fielding’s clerk, proved several payments to the de- 
fendant for advertisements in the Public Advertiser, and pro- 
duced his receipt.’. The proof upon the trial was clear, and 
not controverted by the defendant’s counsel, who called no 
witnesses. They rested their defence in objecting to some of 

the 


PREFACE. 3k 


opinion of the plaintiff’s counsel, (however it 
may be otherwise insignificant) is weighty in 
the scale of the defendant.—My Lord Chief 
Justice De Grey, who filed the information ex 
officio, is directly with me. Ifhe had concurred 
in Lord Mansfield’s doctrine, the trial must have 


the innuendoes, but principally applied to the jury to convince 
them, that the paper was innocent, and that some of the epi- 
thets in the information, did not apply to the intention of the 
defendant. No fact, in case the paper be innocent, can make 
the publication a subject of guilt; and if the jury find it so, 
the defendant may have advantage of its innocence by arrest 
of judgment in this court ; but that is not any question here. 
Nor is this a case, like some of those, where a publication of a 
paper may be justified, from particular circumstances. I di- 
rected the jury, that if they believed the innuendoes, as to per- 
sons and things, to have been properly filled up in the infor- 
mation, and to be the true meaning of the paper, and if they 
gave credit to the witnesses, they must find the defendant 
guilty; for, if they believed them, there is no doubt but there 
was sufficient evidence of the defendant’s printing and publish- 
ing. If the jury were obliged to determine, whether the 
paper was in law a libel or no, or to judge whether it was 
criminal, or to what degree, or if they were to require proofs 
of acriminal intention, then this direction was wrong. I told 
them, as I have always done before, that whether a libel or not, 
was a mere question of law, arising out of the record ; and that 
all the epithets inserted in the information, were also formal 
inferences of law. A general verdict of the jury, finds only 
what the law implies from the fact. There is no necessary 
proof of malice to be made; for that is scarce possible to be 
produced. The law implies, from the fact of publication, a 
criminal intent, The jury stayed out a long while—many 

hours— 


32 PREFACE. 


been a very short one. The facts were either 
admitted by Woodfall’s counsel, or easily proved 
to the satisfaction of the jury. But Mr. De 
Grey, far from thinking he should acquit him- 
self of his duty by barely proving the facts, 
entered largely, and I confess not without 


hours—and at last delivered in their verdict at my house (the 
objection to its being out of the city being cured by consent.) 
To the usual question of the officer, the foreman answered in 
these words, Guilty of printing and publishing only. The 
officer has entered up the words literally, without so much as 
adding the usual words of reference to connect the sense. An 
affidavit of one of the jury has been attempted to be laid before 
the court by the defendant’s counsel ; but we are all of opinion 
that it cannot be received.—Such affidavit can only be admit- 
ted in motion for a new trial, where there is a doubt upon the 
words in which the verdict was delivered, or upon the judge’s 
notes of the evidence: but an affidavit of a juryman cannot be 
admitted to explain or assert, what he thought, or intended, at 
the time of giving in the verdict. The motion of the Attorney 
General divides itself into two parts ; (1.) the first, to fill up 
the finding of the jury, with the usual words of reference, so 
as to connect the verdict with the information. The omission 
of these words, we are of opinion, is a technical mistake of the 
clerk, and may be now supplied. (2.) The second head of 
argument, is to omit the word only in the entry of the verdict. 
This we are all of opinion cannot be done; the word only 
must stand in the verdict. No reason can be urged for omit- 
ting the word only, but what goes to prove that it adds nothing 
to the sense of the verdict. If this word was omitted, the 
verdict would then be, guilty of printing and publishing, which 
is a general verdict of guilty; for there is no other charge*m 
the information, but printing and publishing, and that alone 

( | AdNilie 


PREFACE. 33 


ability, into the demerits of the paper, which 
he called @ seditious libel. Ue dwelt but lightly 
upon those points, which, (according to Lord 
Mansfield) were the only matter of consideration 
to the jury. ‘The criminal intent, the libellous 
matter, the pernicious tendency of the paper 


the jury had to enquire. In the case of the King and Wil- 
liams, for the North Briton, the jury found the defendant 
guilty of printing and publishing. The officer entered up the 
yerdict guilty generally: the defendant received the sentence 
of this court, and no objection was taken by his counsel. 
Where there are more charges in an information than one, the 
finding the defendant guilty of printing and publishing only, 
would be an acquittal of the other charges; but here the jury 
had nothing else to find. ‘They found him guilty of printing 
and publishing only, whieh was all of which they were to find 
him guilty, being the only crime with which he was charged. 
We are all of opinion, that my direction to the jury is right, 
and according to law ; the positions contained in it never were 
doubted; it never has been, nor is it now complained of, in 
this court. There clearly can be no judgment of acquittal, 
because the fact found by the jury is the only question they 
had to try. The single doubt that remains, is as to the mean- 
ing of the word only. It would be improper now to make a 
question of the law, as I lay it down. In all the reports which 
I haye made upon trials for libels, where my direction has 
been uniformly the same, the bar may remember the dead, 
and the living who are now absent, all to have concurred in 
agreeing, that it was law thus to direct the jury in matter of 
libel. Taking then the law to be thus, the only question is, 
whether any meaning, which will affect the verdict, can be put 
upon the word only, as it stands upon this record. If the Jury 
meant to say, they did not ind the paper a libel, or the intent 

VOL. I. D of 


54 PREFACE. 


itself, were the topics on which he principally 
insisted, and of which,. for more than an hour, 
he. tortured his faculties to convince the jury. 
If he agreed in opinion with Lord Mansfeld; 
his discourse was impertinent, ridiculous, and 
unseasonable. But, understanding the law as 
I do, what he said was at least consistent and 
to the purpose. 

If any honest man should still be inclined to 
leave the construction of libels to the court, I 
would intreat him to consider what a dreadful 
complication of hardships he imposes upon his 
fellow-subject—In the first place, the prosecu- 
tion commences by information of an officer of 
the crown, not by the regular constitutional 
mode of indictment before a grand jury.—As the 


of the defendant to be criminal in publishing it, or that they 
did not find the truth and application of the epithets in the in- 
formation, all this would have vitiated the verdict; for it would 
have been entering into matters not before them. But if they 
meant to say, that they did not find the meaning put upon the 
innuendoes, we should enter up judgment of acquittal ; but this 
would be contradictory to the former part of their verdict. It 
is impossible to say with certainty, what they meant. Possibly 
they meant differently, and some of them might intend not to 
find the whole sense put upon the innuendoes. This would be 
the most favourable supposition for the defendant, to which the 
Judges will always lean. But if a doubt arises on the import 
of the verdict, the Court should grant a venire facias de novo, 
which is in their power to do, when a verdict of acquittal Has 
not been found for the defendant.” pir. - n 


PREFACE. 35 


fact is usually admitted, or in general can easily 
be proved, the office of the petty jury is nuga- 
tory.—The court then judges of the nature and 
extent of the offence, and determines ad arbi- 
trium, the quanium of the punishment, from a 
small fine to a heavy one, to repeated whipping, 
to pillory, and unlimited imprisonment. Cutting 
off ears and noses might still be inflicted by a 
resolute judge; but I will be candid enough 
to suppose that penalties, so apparently shocking 
to humanity, would not be hazarded in these 
times.—In all other criminal prosecutions, the 
jury decides upon the fact and the crime in one 
word, and the court pronounces a certain sen- 
tence, which is the sentence of the law, not of 
the judge. If Lord Mansfield’s doctrine be re- 
ceived, the jury must either find a verdict of 
acquittal, contrary to evidence, (which, I can 
conceive, might be done by very conscientious 
men, rather than trust a fellow-creature to Lord 
Mansfield’s mercy) or they must leave to the 
court two offices, never but in this instance 
united, of finding guilty, and awarding punish- 
ment. — | 
But, says this honest Lord Chief Justice, ‘‘ If 
the paper be not criminal, the defendant,’ 
(though found guilty by his peers) ‘is in no 
danger, for he may move the court in arrest of 
judgment.”—True, my good Lord, but who 
D2 


36 PREFACE. 


is to determine upon the motion?—Is not the 
court still to decide, whether judgment shall be 
entered up or not; and is not the defendant 
this way as effectually deprived of judgment by 
his peers, as if he were tried in a court of civil 
law, or in the chambers of the inquisition? It 
is you, my Lord, who then try the crime, not 
the jury. As to the probable effect of a mo- 
tion in arrest of judgment, I shall only observe, 
that no reasonable man would be so eager to 
possess himself of the invidious power of inflict- 
ing punishment, if he were not predetermined 
to make use of it. 

Again;—We are told that judge and jury 
have a distinct office;—that the jury is to find 
the fact, and the judge to deliver the law. De 
jure respondent judices, de facto jurati. ‘The 
dictum is true, though not in the sense given to 
it by Lord Mansfield. ‘The jury are undoubt- 
edly to determine the fact, that is, whether the 
defendant did or did not commit the crime 
charged against him. ‘The judge pronounces 
the sentence annexed by law to that fact so 
found; and if, in the course of the trial, any 
question of law arises, both the council and the 
jury must, of necessity, appeal to the judge, 
and leave it to his decision. An exception or 
plea in bar may be allowed by the court; but, 
when issue is joined, and the jury have received 


PREFACE. 37 


their charge, it is not possible, in the nature of 
things, for them to separate the law from the 
fact, unless they think proper to return a special 
verdict. 

It has also been alledged that, although a 
common jury are sufficient to determine a plain 
matter of fact, they are not qualified to compre- 
hend the meaning, or to judge of the tendency 
of a seditious libel. In answer to this objection, 
(which, if well founded, would prove nothing 
as to the strict right of returning a general ver- 
dict) I might safely deny the truth of the asser- 
tion. Englishmen of that rank, from which juries 
are usually taken, are not so illiterate as, (to 
serve a particular purpose) they are now repre- 
sented. Or, admitting the fact, let a special 
jury be summoned in all cases of difficulty and 
importance, and the objection is removed. But 
the truth is, that if a paper, supposed to be a 
libel upon government, be so obscurely worded, 
that twelve common men cannot possibly see 
the seditious meaning and tendency of it, it is 
in effect no libel. It cannot inflame the minds 
of the people, nor alienate their affections from 
government; for they no more understand what 
it means, than if it were published in a language 
unknown to them. 

Upon the whole matter, it appears to my un- 
derstanding, clear beyond a doubt, that if, in 


33 PREFACE. 


any future prosecution for a seditious libel, the 
jury should bring in a verdict of acquittal not 
warranted by the evidence, it will be owing to 
the false and absurd doctrines laid down by Lord 
Mansfield. Disgusted at the odious artifices 
made use of by the judge to mislead and per- 
plex them, guarded against his sophistry, and 
convinced of the falsehood of his assertions, 
they may perhaps determine to thwart his de- 
testable purpose, and defeat him at any rate. To 
him at least, they will do substantial justice.— 
Whereas, if the whole charge, laid in the infor- 
mation, be fairly and honestly submitted to the 
jury, there is no reason whatsoever to presume 
that twelve men, upon their oaths, will not de- 
cide impartially between the King and the de- 
fendant. ‘The numerous instances, in our state- 
trials, of verdicts recovered for the King, suf- 
ficiently refute the false and scandalous imputa- 
tions thrown by the abettors of Lord Mansfield 
upon the integrity of juries. —But even admitting 
the supposition that, in times of universal dis- 
content, arising from the notorious maladminis- 
tration of public affairs, a seditious writer should 
escape punishment, it makes nothing against my 
general argument. If juries are fallible, to what 
other tribunal shall we appeal?—If juries cannot 
safely be trusted, shall we unite the offices of 
judge and jury, so wisely divided by the con: 


PREFACE. 39 
stitution, and trust implicitly to Lord Mansfield? 
—Are the judges of the court of King’s Bench 
more likely to be unbiassed and impartial, than 
twelve yeomen, burgesses; or gentlemen taken 
indifferently from the county at large?—Or, in 
short, shall there be no decision, until we have 
instituted a tribunal, from which no possible 
abuse “or inconvenience whatsoever can arise? 
—If Iam not grossly mistaken, these questions 
carry a decisive answer along with them*. 

Having cleared the freedom of the press from 
a restraint, equally unnecessary and illegal, I 
return to the use which has been’ made of it in 
the present publication. LH DG 
National reflections, I confess, are not to be 
justified in theory, nor upon any general princi- 
ples. To know how well they are deserved, and 
how justly they have been applied, we must have 
the evidence of facts before us. We must be 
* The questions are so decisive, and the general train of rea- 
soning here advanced so clear and convincing, that the point 
has been ever since settled upon the authority of common sense, 
in the feelings and understanding of every man, whether pro- 
fessional or unprofessional, And all that remained to be done 
was an interference of the legislature to prevent a revival of the 
question by any future judge upon any future case whatsoever; 
a business patriotically undertaken by a statesman whose nameé 
will ever be connected with genuine patriotism, the late Mr! 
Fox, who in 1791 introduced a bill into parliament for this pur- 


pose, and in 1792 succeeded in carrying it through both houses. 
See farther on this subject note to Junius, Letter xu1. EDIT. 


7 


40 PREFACE. 


conversant with the Scots in private life, and 
observe their principles of acting to us, and to 
each other;—the characteristic pruderice; the 
selfish nationality, the indefatigable smile, the 
persevering assiduity, the everlasting profession 
of a discreet and moderate resentment.—If the 
instance were not too important for ah experi- 
ment, it might not be amiss to confide a little 
in their integrity—Without any abstract rea- 
soning upon causes and effects, we shall soon. 
be convinced by experience, that the Scots, trans- 
planted from their own country, are always a 
distinct and separate body from the people who 
receive them. In other settlements, they only 
love themselves;—in England, they cordially love 
themselves, and as cordially hate their neigh- 
bours. For the remainder of their good quali- 
ties, I must appeal to the reader’s observation, 
unless he will accept of my Lord Barrington’s 
authority. In a letter to the late Lord Mel- 
combe, published by Mr. Lee, he expresses him- 
self with a truth and accuracy not very common 
in his lordship’s lucubrations.—“ And Cock- 
burne, ke most of his countrymen, is as abject 
to those above him, as he is insolent to those 
below him*.”—I am far from meaning to im- 
peach the articles of the Union. If the true 


* See the same passage quoted in Miscellaneous Letters, No. 
cxXI. EDIT. 


PREFACE. 4} 


spirit of those articles were religiously adhered 
to, we should not see such a multitude of Scotch 
commoners in the lower house, as representatives 
of English boroughs, while not a single Scotch 
borough is ever represented by an Englishman. 
We should not see English peerages given to 
Scotch ladies, or to the elder sons of Scotch 
peers, and the number of sizteen doubled and 
trebled by a scandalous evasion of the Act of 
Union.—If it should ever be thought advisable 
to dissolve an act, the violation or observance 
of which is invariably directed by the advantage 
and interest of the Scots, I shall say very sin- 
cerely with Sir Edward Coke, * “ When poor 
England stood alone, and had not the access 
of another kingdom, and yet had more and 
as potent enemies as it now hath, yet the King 
of England prevailed.” 

Some opinion may now be expected from me, 
upon a point of equal delicacy to the writer, and 
hazard to the printer. When the character of 
the chief magistrate is in question, more must 
be understood, than may safely be expressed. 
If it be really a part of our constitution, and not 
a mere dictum of the law, that the King can do no 
wrong, it is not the only instance, in the wisest 
of human institutions, where theory is at vari- 


* Parliamentary History, 7. V. p. 400. 
6 


£2 PREFACE. 


ance with practice.—That the sovereign of this 
country is not amenable to any form of' trial; 
known io the laws, is unquestionable. | But ex- 
emption from punishment is a singular privilege 
annexed to the royal character, and no way_ex- 
cludes the possibility of deserving it. How long, 
and to what extent a King of England may be 
protected by the forms, when he violates the 
spirit of the constitution, deserves to be consi- 
dered. A mistake in this matter proved fatal to 
Charles and his son.—For my own part, far from 
thinking that the King can do no wrong, far: 
from suffering myself to be deterred or imposed: 
upon by the language of forms, in opposition to 
the substantial evidence of truth, if it were my 
misfortune to live under the inauspicious reign 
of a prince, whose whole life was employed in 
one base, contemptible struggle with the free 
spirit of his people, or in the detestable endea- 
vour to corrupt their moral principles, I would 
not scruple to declare to him,—“ Sir, You alone: 
are the author of the greatest wrong to your 
subjects and to yourself. Instead of reigning: 
in the hearts of your people, instead of com- 
manding, their lives and fortunes through the: 
medium of their affections, has not the strength’ 
of the crown, whether influence or prerogative, 
been uniformly exerted, for eleven years to- 
gether, to support a narrow, pitiful system of 


PREFACE. 43 


government, which defeats itself, and answers 
no one purpose of real power, profit, or per- 
sonal satisfaction to You?—With the greatest 
unappropriated revenue: of any prince in Eu- 
rope, have we not seen You reduced to such 
vile, and sordid distresses, as would have con- 
ducted any other man to a prison?—With a 
great military, and the greatest naval power in 
the known world, have not foreign nations re- 
peatedly insulted You with impunity ?—Is it 
not notorious that the vast revenues, extorted 
from the labour and industry of your subjects, 
and given You to do honour to Yourself and to 
the nation, are dissipated in corrupting their re- 
presentatives?>—Are You a prince of the House 
of Hanover, and do You exclude all the lead- 
ing Whig families from your councils?—Do you 
profess to govern according to Law, and is it 
consistent with that profession, to impart your 
confidence and affection to those men only, 
‘who, though now perhaps. detached from the 
desperate cause of the Pretender, are marked in 
this country by an hereditary attachment to high 
and arbitrary principles of government ?—Are 
you so infatuated as to take the sense of your 
people from the representation of ministers, or 
from the shouts of a mob, notoriously hired to 
surround your coach, or stationed at a theatre? 
—And if You are, in reality, that public Man, 


44 PREFACE. 


that King, that Magistrate, which these ques- 
tions suppose You to be, is it any answer to 
your people, to say that, among your domestics 
You are good-humoured,—that to one lady you 
are faithful ;—that to your children You are in- 
dulgent?—Sir, the man, who addresses You in 
these terms is your best friend. He would wil- 
lingly hazard his life in defence of your title to 
the crown; and, if power be your object, would 
still shew You how possible it is for a King of 
England, by the noblest means, to be the most 
absolute prince in Europe. You have no ene- 
mies, Sir, but those, who persuade You to aim 
at power without right, and who think it flattery 
to tell You that the character of King dissolves 
the natural relation between guilt and punish- 
ment.” 

I cannot conceive that there is a heart so 
callous, or an understanding so depraved, as to 
attend to a discourse of this nature, and not to 
feel the force of it. But where is the man, 
among those who have access to the closet, re- 
solute and honest enough to deliver it. The 
liberty of the press is our only resource. It will 
command an audience when every honest man 
in the kingdom is excluded. ‘This glorious pri- 
vilege may be a security to the King, as well as 
a resource to his people. Had there been no 
star-chamber, there would have been no rebel- 


PREFACE. 45 


lion against Charles the First. The constant 
censure and admonition of the press would have 
corrected his conduct, prevented a civil war, 
and saved him from an ignominious death.—I 
am no friend to the doctrine of precedents ex- 
clusive of right, though lawyers often tell us, 
that whatever has been once done, may lawfully 
be done again. 

I shall conclude this preface with a quota- 
tion, applicable to the subject from a foreign 
writer*, whose essay on the English constitu- 
tion I beg leave to recommend to the public, as 
a performance, deep, solid and ingenious. 

** In short, whoever considers what it is, that 
constitutes the moving principle of what we 
call great affairs, and the invincible sensibility 
of man to the opinion of his fellow-creatures, 
will not hesitate to affirm that, if it were pos- 
sible for the liberty of the press to exist in a 
despotic government, and, (what is not less dif- 
ficult) for it to exist without changing the con- 
stitution, this liberty of the press would alone 
form a counterpoise to the power of the prince. 
If, for example, in an empire of the East, a 
sanctuary could be found, which, rendered re- 
spectable by the ancient religion of the people, 
might insure safety to those, who should bring 


* Monsieur de Lobne, 


46 PREFACE. 


thither their. observations of any kind; and 
that, from thence, printed papers should issue, 
which, under. a certain seal, might be equally 
respected ; and which, in their. daily appear- 
ance, should examine and freely discuss, the 
conduct of the Cadis, the Bashaws, the Vizir, 
the Divan, and the Sultan himself, that would 
introduce immediately some degree of liberty.” 


LETTERS 


OF 


JUNILUS, Se. 


LETTER I. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 21 January, 1769. 
Tue submission of a free people to the 
executive authority of government is no more 
than a compliance with laws, which they them- 
selves have enacted. While the national honour 
is firmly maintained abroad, and while justice is 
impartially administered at home, the obedience 
of the subject will be voluntary, chearful, and I 
might almost say, unlimited.. A generous nation 
is grateful even for the preservation of its rights, 
and willingly extends the respect due to the 
office of a good prince into an affection for his 


48 LETTERS OF 


person. Loyalty, in the heart and understand- 
ing of an Englishman, is a rational attachment 
to the guardian of the laws. Prejudices and 
passion have sometimes carried it to a criminal 
length; and, whatever foreigners may imagine, 
we know that Englishmen have erred as much 
in a mistaken zeal for particular persons and 
families, as they ever did in defence of what 
they thought most dear and interesting to them- 
selves. 

It naturally fills us with resentment, to see 
such a temper insulted and abused. In reading 
the history of a free people, whose rights have 
been invaded, we are interested in their cause. 
Our own feelings tell us how long they ought 
to have submitted, and at what moment it would 
have been treachery to themselves not to have 
resisted. How much warmer will be our resent- 
ment, if experience should bring the fatal ex- 
ample home to ourselves ! 

The situation of this country is alarming 
enough to rouse the attention of every man, who 
pretends to a concern for the public welfare. 
Appearances justify suspicion ; and, when the 
safety of a nation is at stake, suspicion is a just 
ground of enquiry. Let us enter into it with 
candour and decency. Respect is due to the 
station of ministers; and, if a resolution must 
at last be taken, there is none so likely to be 


JUNIUS. 49 


supported with firmness, as that which has been 
adopted with moderation. 

The ruin or prosperity of a state depends so 
much upon the administration of its govern- 
ment, that, to be acquainted with the merit of 
a ministry, we need only observe the condition 
of the people*. If we see them obedient to the 
laws, prosperous in their industry, united at 
home, and respected abroad, we may reason- 
ably presume that their affairs are conducted by 
men.of experience, abilities and virtue. If, on 
the contrary, we.see an universal spirit of dis- 
trust and dissatisfaction, a.rapid decay of trade, 
dissensions in all parts of the empire, and a 
total loss of respect in .the eyes of foreign 
powers, we may pronounce, without hesitation, 
that,the government of that country is weak, 


* The arrangement of the ministry, at the period in ques- 
tion, was as-follews:—Duke of Grafton, first lord of the 
treasury ; Lord; North, chancellor of the exchequer ; Lord 
Camden, lord chancellor; Lord Viscount Townshend, lord 
lieutenant of Ireland; Earl Rochford, minister for the foreign 
department ; Viscount Weymouth, (afterwards Marquis of 
Bath), for the home department; Earl of Hillsborough, (since 
Marquis of ‘Downshire), American minister ; Earl. Gower, 
lord president of the council; Earl Bristol, lord privy seal ; 
Sir Edw. Hawke, first lord of the admiralty ; Viscount Bar- 
rington, secretary at war; Marquis of Granby, master gen. 
of the ordnance; Lord Howe, treasurer of the navy; Mr. 
De Grey, (afterwards. Lord Walsingham), attorney-general ; 
and Mr..Dunning, solicitor-general. Epi. 

VOL. I. E 


50 LETTERS OF 


distracted, and corrupt. The multitude, in all 
countries, are patient to a certain point.  IIl- 
usage may rouse their indignation, and hurry 
them into excesses, but the original fault is in 
government. Perhaps there never was an in- 
stance of a change, in the circumstances and 
temper of a whole nation, so sudden and extraor- 
dinary as that which the misconduct of ministers 
has, within these very few years, produced in 
Great Britain. When our gracious sovereign as- 
cended the throne, we were a flourishing and a 
contented people. If the personal virtues of a 
king could have insured the happiness of his sub- 
jects, the scene could not have altered so entirely 
as it has done. The idea of uniting all parties, of 
trying all characters, and of distributing the offi- 
ces of state by rotation, was gracious and benevo- 
lent to an;extreme, though it has not yet pro- 
duced the many salutary effects which were in-, 
tended by it. To say nothing of the wisdom of 
such a plan, it. undoubtedly arose from an un- 
bounded goodness of heart, in which folly had 
no share. It was not a capricious partiality to. 
new faces;—it was not.a natural turn for low 
intrigue ; nor was it the treacherous amusement 
of double and triple negotiations.« “No, ‘Sir; it 
arose.from a continued anxiety, in the purest of 
all possible hearts, for the general welfare. Un- 
fortunately for us, the event has not been an- 


JUNIUS. 5} 


swerable to the design. After a rapid succession 
of changes, we are reduced to that state, which 
hardly any change can mend. Yet there is no ex- 
tremity of distress, which of itself ought to re- 
duce a great nation to despair. It is not the 
disorder, but the physician ;—it is not a casual 
concurrence of calamitous circumstances, it is 
the pernicious hand of government, which alone 
can make a whole people desperate. 

Without much political sagacity, or any ex- 
traordinary depth of observation, we need only 
mark how the principal departments of the state 
are bestowed, and look no farther for the true 
cause of every mischief that befals us. 

The finances of a nation, sinking under its 
debts and expences, are committed to a young 
nobleman already ruined by play*. Introduced 
to act under the auspices of Lord Chatham, and 
left at the head of affairs by that nobleman’s re- 
treat, he became minister by accident ;\ but de- 
serting the principles and professions, which gave 


* The Duke of Grafton took the office of Secretary of State, 
with an engagement to support the Marquis of Rockingham’s 
administration. He resigned however in a little time, under 
pretence that he could not act without Lord Chatham, nor bear 
to see Mr. Wilkes abandoned ; but that under Lord Chatham 
he would act in any office. This was the signal of Lord Rock- 
ingham’s dismission. .When Lord Chatham came in, the 
Duke got possession of the Treasury. Reader, mark the econ- 
sequence ! 


LE 2 


52 LETTERS OF 


him a moment’s popularity, we see him, from 
every honourable engagement to the public, an 
apostate by design. As for business, the world 
yet knows nothing of his talents or resolution ; 
unless a wayward, wavering inconsistency be a- 
mark of genius, and caprice a demonstration of 
spirit. It may be said perhaps, that it is his 
Grace’s province, as surely it is his passion, 
rather to distribute than to save the public mo- 
ney, and that while Lord North is Chancellor of 
the Exchequer, the First Lord of the Treasury 
may be as thoughtless and extravagant’ as he 
pleases. I hope however he will not rely too 
much on the fertility of Lord North’s genius for 
finance. His lordship is yet to give us the first 
proof of his abilities: It may be candid to sup- 
pose that he has hitherto voluntarily concealed 
his talents; intending perhaps to astonish the 
world, when we least expect it, with a know- 
ledge of trade, a choice of expedients, and a 
depth of resources equal to the necessities, and 
far beyond the hopes of his country. He must 
now exert the whole power of his capacity, if he 
would wish us to forget, that, since he has been 
in office, no plan has been formed, no system 
adhered to, nor any one important measure 
adopted for the relief of public credit. If his 
plan for the service of the current year be not 
irrevocably fixed on, let me warn him ‘to think 


JUNIUS. 53 


seriously of consequences before he ventures 
to increase the public debt *. Outraged and 
oppressed as we are, this nation will not 
bear, after a six years’ peace, to see new mil- 
lions borrowed, without an eventual diminu- 
tion of debt, or reduction of interest. The at- 
tempt might rouse a spirit of resentment, which 
might reach beyond the sacrifice of a minister. 
As to the debt upon the civil list, the people of 
England expect that it will not be paid without 
a strict enquiry how it was incurred. If it must 
be paid by parliament, let me advise the Chan- 
eellor of the Exchequer to think of some better 
expedient than a lottery. To support an expen- 
sive war, or in circumstances of absolute neces- 
sity, a lottery may perhaps be allowable; but, 
besides that it is at all times the very worst way 
of raising money upon the people, I think it ill 
becomes the Royal dignity to have the debts 
of a King provided for, like the repairs of a 
country bridge, or a decayed hospital. The 
management of the King’s affairs in the House 
of Commons cannot be more disgraced than it 
has been. A leading minister repeatedly called 
down for absolute ignorance ;—ridiculous mo- 
tions ridiculously withdrawn ;—deliberate plans 


eae GCG public debt at the conclusion of the Peace in 1763, 
amounted to £148,377,618. xEpit, 


54 LETTERS OF 


disconcerted*, and a week’s preparation of graces 
ful oratory lost in a moment, give us some, 
though not adequate idea of Lord North’s par- 
liamentary abilities and influence. Yet’ before 
he had the misfortune of being Chancellor of 
the Exchequer, he was neither an object of de- 
rision to his enemies, nor of melancholy pity to 
his friends. , 

A series of inconsistent measures had. alie- 
nated the colonies from their duty as subjects, 
and from their natural affection to their common 
country. When Mr. Grenville was placed at the 
head of the Treasury, he felt the impossibility of 
Great Britain’s supporting such an establishment 
as her former successes had made indispensable, 
and at the same time of giving any sensible re- 
lief to foreign trade, and to the weight of the 
public debt. He thought it equitable that those 
parts of the empire, which had benefited most 
by the expences of the war, should contribute 
something to the expences of the peace, and he 
had no doubt of the constitutional right vested 
in parliament to raise that contribution. But, 
unfortunately for his country, Mr. Grenville was 
at any rate to be distressed because he was mi- 
nister, and Mr. Pittt and Lord Camden were 


* This happened frequently to poor Lord North. 
+ Yet Junrus has been called the partizan of Lord Chatham! 


JUNIUS. 55 


to be the patrons of America, because they were 
-in opposition. Their declarations gave spirit and 
argument to the colonies, and while perhaps 
they meant no more than the ruin of a minister, 
-they in effect divided one half of the empire 
from the other. 4 

Under one administration the stamp act is 
made; under the second it is repealed ; under 
the third, in spite of all experience, a new mode 
of taxing the colonies is invented, and a ques- 
tion revived, which ought to have been buried 
in oblivion. In these circumstances a new office 
is established for the business of the plantations, 
and the Earl of Hillsborough called forth, at a 
most critical season, to govern America*. The 
choice at least announced to us a man of su- 
perior capacity and knowledge. Whether he be 
so or not, let his dispatches as far as they have 
appeared, let his measures as far as they have 
operated, determine for him. In the former we 


* Upon the death of Queen Anne a third secretaryship, 
antecedently unknown to the constitution, was created, pro- 
fessing to be for the superintendence of Scotland, which ter- 

» minated upon the cessation of the rebellion. In 1768, for the 
purpose of finding a post for the Earl of Hillsborough; the 
office of third Secretary was revived ; and Scotland ,having no 
peculiar demand for his talents, he was denominated Secretary 
for America. For the rest see our author’s preceding letters, 
subscribed Aééicus and Lucius, in the Miscellaneous Collection. 
EDIT. 


5b LETTERS OF 


have seen strong assertions without proof, de- 
clamation without argument, and violent cen- 
sures without dignity or moderation ; but neither 
correctness in the composition, nor judgment in 
the design. As for his measures, let it be re- 
membered, that he was called upon to conciliate 
and unite ; and that, when he entered into office, 
the most refractory of the colonies were still dis- 
posed to proceed by the constitutional methods 
of petition and remonstrance. Since that period 
they have been driven into excesses little short 
of rebellion. Petitions have been hindered from 
reaching the throne ; and the continuance of one 
of the principal assembliesrested upon an arbitrary 
condition*, which, considering the temper they 
were in, it was impossible they should comply 
with, and which would have availed nothing as 
to the general question, if it had been complied 
with. So violent, and I believe I may call it so 
unconstitutional, an exertion of the prerogative, 
to say nothing of the weak, injudicious terms in 
which it was conveyed, gives us as humble an 
opinion of his lordship’s capacity, as it does of 
his temper and moderation. While we are at 
peace with other nations, our military force may 
perhaps be spared to support the Earl of Hills- 
borough’s measures in America. Whenever 


* That they should retract one of their resolutions, and erase 
the entry of it. 


JUNIUS. 57 


that force shall be necessarily withdrawn or di- 
minished, the dismission of such a minister will 
neither console us for his imprudence, nor re- 
move the settled resentment of a people, who, 
complaining of an act of the legislature, are 
outraged by an unwarrantable stretch of prero- 
gative, and, supporting their claims by argu- 
ment, are insulted with declamation. 

Drawing lots would be a prudent and reason- 
able method of appointing the officers of state, 
compared to a late disposition of the secretary’s 
office. Lord Rochford was acquainted with the 
affairs and temper of the southern courts: Lord 
Weymouth was equally qualified for either de- 
partment*. By what unaccountable caprice has 
it happened, that the latter, who pretends to no 
experience whatsoever, is removed to the most 
important of the two departments, and the for- 
mer by preference placed in an office, where his 
experience can be of no use to him? Lord Wey- 
mouth had distinguished himself in his first em- 
ployment by a spirited, if not judicious conduct. 
He had animated the civil magistrate beyond the 
tone of civil authority, and had directed the ope- 
rations of the army to more than military exe- 


* It was pretended that the Earl of Rochford, while ambas- 
sador in France, had quarrelled with the duke of Choiseuil, 
and that therefore he was appointed to the Northern depart- 
ment, out of compliment to the French minister. 


58 - LETTERS OF 


cution. Recovered from the errors of his youth, 
from the distraction of play, and the bewitching 
smiles of Burgundy, behold him exerting the 
whole strength of his clear, unclouded faculties, 
in the service of the crown. It was not the heat 
of midnight excesses, nor ignorance of the laws, 
nor the furious spirit of the house of Bedford : 
No, Sir, when this respectable minister inter- 
posed his authority between the magistrate and 
the people, and signed the mandate, on which, 
for aught he knew, the lives of thousands de- 
pended, he did it from the deliberate motion of 
his heart, supported by the best of his judgment. 

It has lately been a fashion to pay a compli- 
ment to the bravery and generosity of the Com- 
mander in Chief*, at the expence of his under- 
standing. ‘They’ who love him least make no 
question of his courage, while his friends dwell 
chiefly on the facility of his disposition. Ad- 
mitting him to be as brave as a total absence of 
all feeling and reflection can make him, let us 
see what sort of merit he derives. from) the re- 
mainder of his character.” If it be generosity to 
accumulate in his own person and family a num- 
ber of lucrative employments ; to provide, at the 
public expence, for every creature that bears 
the name of Manners ; and, neglecting the merit 


* The late Lord Granby. 


JUNIUS. 59 


and. services of the rest of the army, to heap 
promotions upon his favourites and dependants, 
the present Commander in Chief is the most ge- 
nerous:man alive. Nature has been sparing of 
her gifts to this noble lord; but where birth and 
fortune ‘are united, we expect the noble pride 
and independence of a man of spirit, not the 
servile, humiliating complaisance of a courtier. 
As to the goodness of his heart, if a proof of 
it be taken from the: facility of never refusing, 
what; conclusion shall we draw from the inde- 
cency of never performing? And if the disci- 
pline of the army be in any degree preserved, 
what thanks are due to a man, whose cares, no- 
toriously confined to fillmg up vacancies, have 
degraded. the office of Commander in Chief to 
a broker of commissions! 

With-respect to the navy, I shall only say, 
that this:country is so highly indebted to Sir 
Edward . Hawke, .that..no expence shouldbe 
spared to secure to him an honourable and afflu- 
ent retreat. 

The pure and impartial administration of jus- 
tice is perhaps the firmest:bond to secure a chear- 
ful submission of the people, and to engage their 
affections to government. It is not sufficient that 
questions of private right and wrong are justly de- 
cided, nor that judges are superior to the vileness 
of pecuniary corruption. Jefferies himself, when 


60 LETTERS OF 


the court had no interest, was an upright judge. 
A court of justice may be subject to another 
sort of bias, more important and pernicious, as 
it reaches beyond the interest of individuals, and 
affects the whole community. A judge under 
the influence of government, may be honest 
enough in the decision of private causes, yet a 
traitor to the public. When a victim is marked 
out by the ministry, this judge will offer himself 
to perform the sacrifice. He will not scruple to 
prostitute his dignity, and betray the sanctity 
of his office, whenever an. arbitrary point: is to 
be carried for government, or the resentment 
of a court to be gratified. {we ait 
These principles and proceedings, oditeedided 
contemptible as they are, in effect are no less 
injudicious. A wise and generous people are 
roused by every appearance of oppressive, un- 
constitutional measures, whether those measures 
are supported openly by the power of govern- 
ment, or masked under the forms of a court of 
justice. Prudence and_ self-preservation’ will 
oblige the most moderate. dispositions to make 
common cause, even with a man whose conduct 
they censure, if they see him persecuted in a 
way, which the real spirit of the laws will not 
justify*.. The facts, on which these remarks 


* Mr. Wilkes. Epit. 


JUNIUS. 61 


are founded, are too notorious to require an 
application. 

This, Sir, isthe detail. In one view behold 
a nation overwhelmed with debt; her revenues 
' wasted; her trade declining; the affections of 
her colonies alienated; the duty of the magis- 
trate transferred to the soldiery ; a gallant army, 
which never fought unwillingly but against their 
fellow subjects, mouldering away for want of the 
direction of a man of common abilities and spirit; 
and, in the last instance, the administration of 
justice become -odious -and suspected to the 
whole body of the people. ‘This deplorable scene 
admits but of one addition—that we are govern- 
ed by counsels, from. which a. reasonable man 
can expect no remedy but poison, no relief but 
death. 

If, by the immediate interposition. of Provi- 
dence, it were’ possible for us to'escape a crisis 
so full of terror and: despair, posterity will not 
believe the history of the present-times. -They 
will either conclude-that'our distresses were ima- 
ginary, or that we had.the good.fortune to be 
governed. by men-of acknowledged.integrity and 
wisdom: they ‘will ‘not: believe it possible. that 
their ancestors. could have survived, or recovered 
from so-desperate ia-condition, while a.Duke of 
Grafton was Prime Minister, aJLord North Chan- 


62 LETTERS OF 


cellor of the Exchequer, a Weymouth and a 
Hillsborough Secretaries of State, a Granby 
Commander in Chief, and a Mansfield oleh cri- 


minal judge of the kingdom. DO Kien 
; Enercon 


LETTER II. 
TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 26 January, 1769. 
Tue kingdom swarms with such num: 

bers of felonious robbers of private character and 
virtue, that no honest or good man is safe; es- 
pecially as these cowardly, base assassins stab in 
the dark, without having the courage to sign 
their real names to their malevolent and wicked 
productions. A writer, who signs himself Junius, 
in the Public Advertiser of the 21st instant, 
opens the deplorable situation of this country in 
avery affecting manner ; with a pompous parade 
of his candour and decency, he-tells us, that 
_We see dissensions in all parts of the empire, an 
universal spirit of distrust: and- dissatisfaction, 
and a total loss of respect towards us in the eyes 
of foreign powers. But this writer, with ‘all his 
boasted candour, ‘has not told us the real cause 
of the evils he so pathetically enumerates.” I 
shall take the libérty to explain the cause for 


JUNIUS. 63 


him. Juntus, and such writers as himself, oc- 
casion all the mischief complained of, by falsely 
and maliciously traducing the best characters in 
the kingdom. For when our deluded people at 
home, and foreigners abroad, read the poisonous 
and inflammatory libels that are daily published 
with impunity, to vilify those who are any way 
distinguished by their good qualities and emi- 
nent virtues ; when they find no notice taken of, 
or reply given to these slanderous tongues and 
pens, their conclusion is, that both the ministers 
and the nation have been fairly deseribed ; and 
they act accordingly. I think it therefore the 
duty of every good citizen to stand forth, and 
endeavour to undeceive the public, when the 
vilest arts are made use of to defame and blacken 
the brightest characters among us. An eminent 
author affirms it to be almost as criminal to hear 
a worthy man traduced, without attempting his 
justification, as to be the author of the calumny 
against him. ‘For my own’part, I think it a sort 
of misprision of treason against society. No 
man therefore who knows Lord Granby, can 
possibly hear so good and great a character 
most vilely abused, without a warm and just in- 
dignation against this Junius, this high-priest of 
envy, malice, and all uncharitableness, who has 
endeavoured to sacrifice our beloved commander 
in chief at the altars of his horrid deities. Nor 


64 LETTERS OF 


is the injury done to his lordship alone, but to 
the whole nation, which may too soon feel the 
contempt, and consequently the attacks of our 
late enemies, if they can be induced to.believe 
that the person on whom the safety of these 
kingdoms so much depends, is unequal to ‘his 
high station, and destitute of those qualities 
which form a good general.’ One would have 
thought that his lordship’s service in the cause 
of his country, from the battle of Culloden to 
his most glorious conclusion of the late war, 
might have entitled him to;common respect and 
decency at least; but this uncandid, indecent 
writer has gone so far as to turn one of the most 
amiable men of the age into a’stupid, unfeeling, 
and senseless being ; possessed indeed of a per- 
sonal courage, but void of those essential quali- 
ties which distinguish the commander: from the 
common soldier. ) *ighager® 

-A very long, uninterrupted, impartial, I 
will add, a most. disinterested friendship with 
Lord Granby, gives me the right to affirm, that 
all Junrus’s assertions are false and scandalous. 
Lord Granby’s courage, though of the brightest 
and most ardent kind, is among the lowest of 
his numerous good qualities ; he was formed to 
excel in war by nature’s liberality to his mind as 
well as person. Educated and instructed by his 
most noble father, and a, most. spirited, as well 

7 


JUNIUS. 65 


as excellent scholar, the present bishop of Ban- 
gor*, he was trained to the nicest sense of ho- 
nour; and to the truest and noblest sort of pride, 
that of never doing or suffering a mean action. 
A sincere love and attachment to his king and 
country, and to their glory, first impelled him to 
the field, where he never gained aught. but ho- 
nour. He impaired, through his bounty, his 
own fortune ; for his bounty, which this writer 
would in vain depreciate, is founded upon the 
noblest of the human affections, it flows from a 
heart melting to goodness from the most refined 
humanity. Can aman, who is described as un- 
feeling, and void of. reflection, be constantly 
employed in seeking proper objects on whom. to 
exercise. those. glorious, virtues. of compassion 
and generosity? The distressed officer, . the 
soldier, the widow, the orphan, and a long list 
besides, know that vanity has no. share in his 
frequent donations; he gives, because he feels 
their distresses. Nor has he ever. been rapacious 
with one hand to be bountiful with the other ; 
yet this uncandid Junius would insinuate, that 
the. dignity of the commander in chief is de- 
praved into the base. office of a commission 
broker; that is, Lord Granby bargains for the 
sale of commissions; for it must have this 


* Dr. John Ewer. eEpir, 
VOL. I. ; F 


65 LETTERS OF 


meaning, if ithas any at all. But where is the 
man living who can justly charge his lordship 
with such mean practices? Why does not 
Junius produce him? Junius knows that he 
has no other means of wounding this hero, than 
from some missile weapon, shot from an obscure 
corner: | He seeks, as all such defamatory 
writers do,’ 


spargere voces 
In vulgum ambiguas 


to raise ‘suspicion in the minds of the people. 
But I hope that my countrymen will be no 
longer imposed upon by artful and designing 
men, or by wretches, who, bankrupts in bu- 
siness, in fame, and in fortune, mean nothing 
more than to involve this country in the same 
common ruin with themselves. Hence it is, 
that they are constantly aiming their dark and 
too often fatal weapons against those who stand 
forth as the bulwark of our national safety. 
Lord Granby was too conspicuous a mark not to 
be their object. He is next attacked for being 
unfaithful to his promises and engagements : 
Where are Junius’s proofs? Although I could 
give some instances, where a breach of promise 
would be a virtue, especially in the case of those 
who would pervert the open, unsuspecting mo- 
ments of convivial mirth, into sly, insidious 
applications for preferment, or party systems, 


JUNIUS. 67 


and would endeavour to surprise a good man, 
who cannot bear to see any one leave him dis- 
satisfied, into unguarded promises. Lord Gran. 
by’s attention to his own family and relations is 
called selfish. Had he not attended to them, 
when fair and just opportunities presented them- 
selves, I should have thought him unfeeling, 
and void of reflection indeed. How are any 
man’s friends or relations to be provided for, 
but from the influence and protection of the 
patron? It is unfair to suppose that Lord 
Granby’s friends have not as much merit as the 
friends of any other great man: If he is gene- 
rous at the public expence, as Junius invidiously 
calls it, the public is at no more expence for 
his lordship’s friends, than it would be if any 
other set of men possessed those offices. The 
charge is ridiculous! 

The last charge against Lord Granby is of 
a most serious and alarming nature indeed. 
Junius asserts, that the army is mouldering away 
for want of the direction of a man of common 
abilities and spirit. The present condition of 
the army gives the directest lie to his assertions. 
It was never upon a more respectable footing 
with regard to discipline, and all the essentials 
that can form good soldiers. Lord Ligonier 
delivered a firm and noble palladium of our safe- 
ties into Lord Granby’s hands, who has kept it 

F 2 


68 LETTERS OF 


in the same good order in which he received 
it. The strictest care has been taken to fill up 
the vacant commissions, with such gentlemen as 
have the glory of their ancestors to support, as 
well as their own, and are doubly bound to the 
cause of their king and country, from motives 
of private property, as well as public spirit. The 
adjutant-general*, who has the immediate care 
of the troops after Lord Granby, is an officer 
who would do great honour to any service in 
Europe, for his correct arrangements, good sense 
and discernment upon all occasions, and for a 
punctuality and precision which give the most 
entire satisfaction to all who are obliged to con-’ 
sult him. The reviewing generals, who inspect 
the army twice a year, have been selected with 
the greatest care, and have answered the im- 
portant trust reposed in them in the most laud- 
able manner. ‘Their reports of the condition of 
the army are much more to be credited than 
those of Juntus, whom I do advise to atone for 
his shameful aspersions, by asking pardon of 
Lord Granby, and the whole kingdom, whom 
he has offended by his abominable scandals. In 
short, to turn Junius’s own battery against him, 
I must assert, in his own words, “ that he has 
given strong assertions without proof, declama-- 


* Harvey. EDIT. 


JUNIUS. 69: 


tion without argument, and violent censures 


without dignity or moderation.’ | 
WILLIAM DRAPER** 


* As a correspondent of Junius in this and several other 
letters, the following short notice of Sir William Draper can- 
not be unacceptable to the reader. We take it by Mr. Chal- 
mers’s permission from his Appendix to the Supplemental 
Apology for the Believers in the suppesititious Shakespeare 
papers, p. 80. ' 

« Sir William, as a scholar, had been bred at Eton, and 
King’s college, Cambridge; but, he chose the sword, for his 
profession. In India, he ranked with those famous warriors 
Clive, and Laurence. In 1761, he acted at Bellisle, asa Bri- 
gadier. In 1763, he commanded the troops who conquered 
Manilla, which place was saved from plunder, by the promise 
of a ransom, that was never paid. His first appearance, as an. 
able writer, was in his clear refutation of the objections of the 
Spanish court. His services were rewarded with the command 
of the sixteenth regiment of foot, which he resigned to Colonel 
Gisborne, for his half-pay of 200/. Irish: This common 
transaction furnished Junius with many a sarcasm. Sir Wil- 
liam had scarcely closed his contest with that formidable op- 
ponent, when he had the misfortune to lose his wife, who died 
on the Ist of September, 1769. As he was foiled, he was, no 
doubt, mortified. And he set out, in October of that year, 
to make the tour of the Northern Colonies, which had now 
become objects of notice, and scenes of travel. He arrived at 
Charlestown, South Carolina, in January, 1770 ; and travel- 
ling northward, he arrived, during the summer of that year, 
in Maryland ; where he was received with that hospitality 
which she always paid to strangers, and with the attentions, that 
were due to the merit of such a visitor. 

“From Maryland, Sir William passed on to New York, where 
he married Miss De Lancy, a lady of great connections there, 

ane 


70 LETTERS OF 


LETTER III. 


TO SIR WILLIAM DRAPER, KNIGHT OF THE BATH. 


SIR, 7 February, 1769. 


‘Tue defence of Lord Granby does 
honour to the goodness of your heart. You 
feel, as you ought to do, for the reputation of 
your friend, and you express yourself in the 
warmest language of the passions. In any other 
cause, I doubt not, you would have cautiously 
weighed the consequences of committing your 
name to the licentious discourses and malig- 
nant opinions of the world. But here, I pre- 
sume, you thought it would be a breach of friend- 
ship to lose one moment in consulting your un- 
derstanding ; as if an appeal to the public were 
no more than a military cowp de main, where a 
brave man has no rules to follow, but the dic- 
tates of his courage. ‘Touched with your gene- 
rosity, I freely forgive the excesses into which 
it has led you; and, far from resenting those 
terms of reproach, which, considering that you 
are an advocate for decorum, you have heaped 
upon me rather too liberally, I place them to 


and agreeable endowments, who died in 1778 ; leaving him a 
daughter. In 1779, he was appointed Lieutenant-governor of 
Minorca ; a trust, which, however discharged, ended unhappily. 


He died at Bath, on the 8th of January, 1787.” pr. 
it 


JUNIUS. 71 


the account of an honest unreflecting indigna- 
tion, in which your cooler judgment and natural 
politeness had no concern. I approve of the 
spirit with which you have given your name to 
the public ; and, if it were a proof of any thing 
but spirit, I should have thought myself bound 
to follow your example. I should have hoped 
that even my name might carry some authority 
with it*, if I had not seen how very little weight 
er consideration a printed paper receives even 
from the respectable signature of Sir William 
Draper. 

You begin with a general assertion, that 
writers, such as I am, are the real cause of all 
the public evils we complain of. And do you 
really think, Sir William, that the licentious 
pen of a political writer is able to produce such 
important effects? A little calm reflection might 
have shewn you, that national calamities do not 
arise from the description, but from the real 
character and conduct of ministers. To have 
supported your assertion, you should have proved 
that the present ministry are unquestionably the 
best and brightest characters of the kingdom : 

* This expression will receive some farther ght from a 
feature of himself incidentally introduced by the author in a 
letter omitted in his own edition, but inserted in the present 
work, Miscellaneous Letter, No. itv. as also from other views 


of his sentiments and conduct as casually evinced in the Private 
Letters. EDIT. 


72 LETTERS OF 


and that, if the affections of the colonies have 
been alienated, if Corsica* has been shamefully 
abandoned, if commerce languishes, if public 
credit is threatened with a new debt, and your 
own Manilla ransom most dishonourably given 
upt, it has all been owing to the malice of po- 


* Corsica, in modern times, was first subjugated by the 
Genoese, who made use of so much insolence and oppression, 
as to induce the natives to throw off the yoke, and endeavour 
to recover their independence. ‘The contest was long and se= 
vere, and the Corsicans were reduced to beggary in the gene- 
rous struggle. Nieuhoff and Paoli chicfly figured as leaders of 
the Corsicans, the first of whom was actually elected king, but 
could not maintain his throne against the invaders. The Cor- 
sicans applied to many foreign courts for assistance, and among 
the rest to Great Britain; and Lord Shelburne (afterwards 
Marquis of Lansdown) was one of the warmest supporters of 
their cause; and most desirous, when in administration, to en- 
gage in it. But his colleagues opposed him, and the cause of 
Corsica was abandoned, though the citizens of London con- 
tributed largely to its support. Yet the Genoese could not 
totally subdue it ; and in consequence they sold it to France to 
be subdued by the French arms: and the tyranny which was:at 
first exercised over it by the Genoese, it was now doomed to 
suffer from the French. Reader, mark the result !—Corsica is 
at this moment reaping an ample revenge : for through the me- 
dium of Bonaparte she is now loading both France and Genoa 
with as severe a tyranny as herself ever submitted to from 
either. EDIT. : 

+ In the preceding war with Spain, Sir William (then Col. 
Draper) had commanded an expedition against the Spanish 
settlements in the Philippine Isles. It succeeded completely ; ; 
and the capital of Manilla was taken by assault. Yet the generous 
conquerors, instead of plundering the city, consented to accept 

for 


JUNIUS. - 73 


litical writers, who will not suffer the best and 
brightest of characters (meaning still the present 
ministry) to take a single right step for the 
honour or interest of the nation. But it seems 
you were a little tender of coming to particulars. 
Your conscience insinuated to you, that it would 
be prudent to leave the characters of Grafton, 
North, Hillsborough, Weymouth, and Mans- 
field; to shift for themselves; and truly, Sir 
‘William; the part you have undertaken is at 
least as much as you are equal to. : 

Without disputing Lord Granby’s courage, 
we are yet to learn in what articles of military 
knowledge nature has been so very liberal to his 
mind. «If you have served with him, you ought 
to have pointed out some instances of able dis- 
position and well-concerted enterprize, which 
might fairly be attributed to his capacity as a 


for the value of the spoil, bills drawn upon the Spanish govern- 
ment adequate to its supposed amount. These bills the Spanish 
government undertook to pay, but dishonourably forfeited 
its word on their becoming due. Sir William Draper, on his 
return frum India, repeatedly pressed the English minister to 
interpose upon the subject, on behalf of himself and his fel- 
low-soldiers. The English minister however did not interpose : 
Draper was personally rewarded by an election into the order 
of the Bath, in conjunction with certain pecuniary emoluments 
referred to in this correspondence ; while his colleague, Ad- 
miral Cornish, together with the soldiers and sailors under their 
commands were suffered to live and die altogether without re- 
dress. EDI. 


74 LETTERS OF 


general. It is you, Sir William, who make 
your friend appear aukward and ridiculous, by 
giving him a laced suit of tawdry qualifications, 
which nature never intended him to wear. 

You say, he has acquired nothing but honour 
in the field. Is the Ordnance nothing? Are 
the Blues nothing? Is the command of the 
army, with all the patronage annexed to it, 
nothing ? Where he got these nothings I know 
not; but you at least ought to have told us 
where he deserved them. 

As to his bounty, compassion, &c. it would 
have been but little to the purpose, though you 
had proved all that you have asserted. I meddle 
with nothing but his character as commander in 
chief; and though I acquit him of the baseness 
of selling commissions, I still assert that his 
military cares have never extended beyond the 
disposal of vacancies; and I am justified by the 
complaints of the whole army, when I say that, 
in this distribution, he consults nothing but 
parliamentary interests, or the gratification of 
his immediate dependants. As to his servile 
submission to the reigning ministry, let me ask, 
whether he did not desert the cause of the whole 
army, when he suffered Sir Jeffery Amherst to 
be sacrificed*, and what share he had in recalling 


* See upon this subject our author’s Miscellaneous Letters 
subscribed Lucius, and particularly that of Atticus, Letter 1. 
EDIT. 


JUNIUS. 75 


that officer to the service? Did he not betray 
the just interests of the army, in permitting 
Lord Percy to have a regiment? And does he 
not at this moment give up all character and dig- 
nity as a gentleman, in receding from his own 
repeated declarations in favour of Mr. Wilkes ? 

In the two next articles I think we are agreed. 
You candidly admit, that he often makes such 
promises as it is a virtue in him to violate, and 
that no man is more assiduous to provide for 
his relations at the public expence. I did not 
urge the last as an absolute vice in his disposition, 
but to prove that a careless disinterested spirit is 
no part of his character ; and as to the other, I 
desire it may be remembered, that Z never de- 
scended to the indecency of inquiring into his 
convivial hours. It is you, Sir William Draper, 
who have taken pains to represent your friend 
in the character of a drunken landlord, who 
deals out his promises as liberally as his liquor, 
and will suffer no man to leave his table either 
sorrowful or sober. None but an intimate friend, 
who must frequently have seen him in these 
unhappy, disgraceful moments, could have de- 
scribed him so well. 

The last charge, of the neglect of the army, 
is indeed the most material of all. I am sorry 
to tell you, Sir William, that, in this article, 
your first fact is false ; and as there is nothing 
more painful to me than to give a direct contra- 


76 LETTERS OF 


diction to a gentleman of your appearance, I 
could wish that, in your future publications, you 
would pay a greater attention to the truth. of 
your premises, before you suffer your genius to 
hurry you toa conclusion. Lord Ligonier did- 
not deliver the army (which you, in classical 
Janguage, are pleased to call a palladium). into 
Lord Granby’s hands. It was taken from him 
much against his inclination, some two or three 
years before Lord Granby was commander in 
chief. As to the state of the army, I should be 
glad to know where you have received your in- 
telligence. Was it in the rooms at. Bath, or at 
your retreat at Clifton? The reports of review- 
ing generals comprehend only a few regiments 
in England, which, as they are immediately 
under the royal inspection, are perhaps in some 
tolerable order. But do you know any thing of 
the troops in, the West-Indies, the Mediterra- 
nean, and North America, to say nothing of a 
whole army absolutely. ruined in Ireland? In. 
quire a little into facts, Sir William, before you 
publish your next panegyric upon Lord Granby, 
and believe me, you will find there is a fault at 
head-quarters, which even the acknowledged 
care and abilities of the adjutant-general cannot 
correct*. ; is 

Permit me now, Sir William, to address my- 


* Adjutant General Harvey. pir. 


JUNIUS. 4 


self personally to you, by way of thanks for the 
honour of your correspondence. You are by no 
means undeserving of notice ; and it may be of 
consequence even to Lord Granby to have it de- 
termined, whether or no the man who has 
praised him so lavishly, be himself deserving 
of praise. When you returned to Europe, you 
zealously undertook the cause of that gallant 
army, by whose bravery at Manilla your own 
fortune had been established. You complained, 
you threatened, you even appealed to the public 
in print. By what accident did it happen, that 
in the midst of all this bustle, and all these cla- 
mours for justice to your injured troops, the 
name of the Manilla ransom was suddenly buried 
in a profound, and, since that time, an uninter- 
rupted silence? Did the ministry suggest any 
motives to you, strong enough to tempt a man 
of honour, to desert and betray the cause of his 
fellow-soldiers? Was it that blushing ribband, 
which is now the perpetual ornament of your 
person? Or was it that regiment, which you 
afterwards (a thing unprecedented among sol- 
diers) sold to colonel Gisborne? Or was it that 
government, the full pay of which you are con- 
tented to hold, with the half-pay of an Irish 
colonel? And do you now, after a retreat not 
very like that of Scipio, presume to intrude 
yourself, unthought-of, uncalled-for, upon the pa- 


78 LETTERS OF 


tience of the public? Are your flatteries of the 
commander in chief directed to another regi- 
ment, which you may again dispose of on the 
same honourable terms? We know your pru- 
dence, Sir William, and I should be pe to stop 


your preferment. 
JUNIUS. 


LETTER IV. 
TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 
SIR, 17 February, 17169. 


I recetvep Juntus’s favour last night; 
he is determined to keep his advantage by the 
help of his mask; it is an excellent protection, 
it has saved many a man from an untimely end. 
But whenever he will be honest enough to lay it 
aside, avow himself, and produce the face which 
has so long lurked behind it, the world will be 
able to judge of his motives for writing such in- 
famous invectives. His real name will discover 
his freedom and independency, or his servility 
‘to a faction.. Disappointed ambition, resentment 
for defeated hopes, and desire of revenge, as- 
sume but too often the appearance of public. 
spirit; but be his designs wicked or charitable, 
Junius should learn that. it is possible to con- 


JUNIUS. 79 


demn measures, without a barbarous and cri- 
minal outrage against men. Juwius delights to 
mangle carcases with a hatchet; his language 
and instrument have a great connexion with 
Clare-market, and, to do him justice, he handles 
his weapon most admirably. One would imagine 
he had been taught to throw it by the savages of 
America. It is therefore high time for me to 
step in once more to shield my friend from this 
merciless weapon, although I may be wounded 
in the attempt. But I must first ask Junius, by 
what forced analogy and construction the mo- 
ments of convivial mirth are made to signify 
indecency, a violation of engagements, a drunken 
landlord, and a desire that every one in com- 
pany should be drunk likewise*? He must have 


* Whether such a conclusion were forced or natural from 
Sir William’s description of his friend, Junius, it seems, was 
not the only person who deduced it, if we may judge from a 
dispute the Knight of the Bath was involved in upon this very 
subjeet, with two other invisible correspondents, of whom the 
one signed himself Neocles, and the other the Ghost, and whe 
wrote in the same newspaper (The Public Advertiser). To 
the first correspondent, Sir William replies as follows. 


SIR, Clifton, Feb. 13, 1769. 


I must beg the favour of Neocles not to believe that I 
have described my friend to be frequently in a state of ebriety. 
Had I done so, I might indeed be justly accused of being in- 


sufficient to support his cause. 
' CEE RIES Sb RU EPEAT OB 


If 


80 LETTERS OF 


culled all the flowers of St. Giles’s and Billings- 
gate to have produced such a piece of oratory. 
Here the hatchet descends with tenfold ven- 
geance ; but, alas! it hurts no one but its mas- 


If Neocles is an officer, or a man of business, he must know 
that a commander in chief, or a minister of state, from a mul- 
tiplicity of applications, cannot trust their memories with the. 
whole of them: minutes and memorandums are necessary * 
when business is over, these are left with their secretaries, or 
in their bureaus. Should therefore any insidious man, either 
at dinner, or after dinner, importune a great person to give 
him some preferment, which, from the want of these minutes, 
he might not then recollect to be engaged, and thus obtain a 
promise of it; yet, if it should appear from the inspection of 
these memorandums afterwards, that such preferment was pre- 
engaged, I must again repeat, that in sucha case it would be 
a virtue to break the unguarded promise made at dinner, or in 
convivial mirth, and to adhere to the first engagement. These 
things have happened, do happen, and may happen again, to 
the most temperate men living. : 

Tam 
Neocles most humble servant, 
W.D. 

The fact is, that Lord Granby, and his friend Sir William, 
appear to have been both jolly companions. Mr. Campbell, 
says of the latter—that his favorite wine was Burgundy—the 
bewitching smiles of which had an irresistible influence on his 
heart. Life of Boyd, p. 186. Junius seems to have appealed 
to a known fact, as well as to an unguarded expression of the 
pen. Sir William’s answer to the Ghost occurs in the same 
newspaper, Mar. 2, 1769. 4 

«75 Dit, Clifton, Feb. 24. 
« Sir W. D. presents his compliments to the Ghost, and 
hopes, that when he shall please to revisit us, the cock may not 
crow 


JUNIUS. 81 


ter! For Junius must not think to put words 
into my mouth, that seem too foul even for his 
own. | 

My frienid’s political engagements I know not, 


crow too suddenly, and warn him hence, before he has suffi- 
ciently considered what Sir W. says with regard to anonymous 
writers. They are not condemned by him merely for being 
anonymous, but as they are defamatory and wicked ; as they 
act as incendiaries, as they privily shoot at those who are true 
of heart, and as they basely stab in the dark, When they are 
thus guilty, they are worthy of the severest censures, A very 
fine writer, Mr. Addison, has not stuck to rank them with 
murderers and assassins. It were to be wished, that all such 
writers would read the paper upon this subject, No. 451, vol. 6. 
Sir W. hopes likewise, that the Ghost will not believe that 
flattery, or gladiatorial vanity, or any desire of the golden cup, 
or its contents, called him forth. 

“ He stood forth upon a principle that no honest man should 
be ashamed of, upon the principle of Horace; who nebly and 
truly said, 

' — Amicuin 
Qui non defendit alio culpante—Hic niger est } 
more especially when that friend is most unjustly attacked. 
He thinks that a real signature is better than a fictitious one, 
as the knowledge of the man is the surest guide to form a judg- 
ment of his motives for writing. He has indeed the vanity to 
think that no man living writes from more. distnterested motives 
than himself, having studiously quitted what is called the great 
world, and all its pursazts. But he is not so totally lost to the 
sense of worldly knowledge, as not to foresee that the many 
distractions of this poor afflicted country must end in its ruin 
if some salutary means are not speedily taken to prevent it. 
This kingdom abounds with great men, capable of advising and 
of acting in the most efficacious manner for the public good ; 
VOL, I, G but 


82 LETTERS OF 


so cannot pretend to explain them, or assert 
their consistency. I know not whether Junius 
be considerable enough to belong to any party 3 
if he should be so, can he affirm that he has 


but unanimity must be the basis. If they can be prevailed 
upon to forgive, to forget, to unite, sincerely, there is no occa+ 
sion to despair of the common wealth. Sir W. cannot subseribé 
to the Ghost’s opinion, that the vox popul? is the vor Dei. Tk 
would be too irreverent, it would vainly attempt to convert the 
immutable Deity into a most changeable and capricious being ; 
nor would he take even the Ghost’s word, or that of the greatest 
lawyer in the kingdom, should he affirm it. The voice of the 
people was heard loudly and strongly in favour of our great 
minister, Mr. Pitt. In this one instance it was just; but was 
it formerly less strong, less loud, in the favour of Titus Oates, 
the most abandoned of men? the voice of the people, and the 
voice of truth, are not always together : the Jatter must descend 
from above, the former but too often arises from below. ‘In 
plain English, it generally comes out of the barrel and the 
cellar, as some honest bottle-men know full well.” pint 23 
In the following letter, inserted in the Publie Advertiser 
about the ‘same time, Lord Granby appears to have found a 
fuller, if not an abler advocate, than even his friend Sir William. 
It has various claims for an introduction in the present place ; 
but chiefly, because Junrus himself, in a postscript to the last 
letter (inserted in the copy that appeared in the Public Adver+ 
tiser, but omitted in his own edition) notices it with a view of 
answering it; although from a second resolution, not to reply 
under this signature to anonymous addresses, he never oe 
his intention. 'The postscript is as follows : rs 
“« T had determined to leave the commander in chief in the 
quiet enjoyment of his friend and his yteine by but ‘Titus deserves 
an answer, and shall have a complete one.” soled 
TO 


JUNIUS. — 83 
always adhered to one set of men and measures? 
Is he sure that he has never sided with those 


whom he was first hired to abuse ? Has he never 
abused those he was hired to praise? To say the 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 

SIR, 

Lone and impatiently have I waited to see justice 
done to a much injured character. From the goodness of the 
eause, my expectations were great, but I have been cruelly 
disappointed. To enter the lists against such an able antago- 
nist upon equal terms, would be the height of presumption ; 
but truth, plainly and simply told, I doubt not, will shew itself 
superior to falsehood, though dressed in the most beautiful 
language of the elegant Junius. 

Unprejudiced by party, unbiassed by faction, it grieves me 
exceedingly, that a spirit of licentiousness should be able so far 
to influence some of the greatest geniuses of this nation. Is it 
possible to see without concern some of the most respectable 
names, and the most unexceptionable characters, so undeserved- 
ly attacked, and detraction conveyed in the most persuasive 
language, from the masterly pen of an accomplished writer ? 
When every man of superior talents ought to exert himself to 
the utmost to support the dignity of government, how unfortu- 
nate is it that the greatest abilities are made subservient to a 
factious spirit, totally subversive of all the principles of social 
happiness ! But the times are become so unpardonably licen- 
tious, that the greater the name, the higher the rank, the more 
dignified the character, and the more exalted the station, the 
more they become the objects of envy, while the envenomed 
darts of illiberal abuse are pointed by the sons of sedition from 
every quarter, with unparalleled malice and unrelenting fury, 

Subordination and subjection is the province of some; supe- 
riority and command undoubtedly belongs to the station of 
others. Obedience to the laws, respect for the magistrate, and 


G2 duty 


84 LETTERS OF 


truth, most men’s polities sit much ‘tdo loosely 
about them. But as my friend’s: military cha- 
racter was the chief object that engaged me in 
this controversy, to that I shall return. . 


duty to superiors, are essentially necessary in every well go- 
verned state. Every attempt then to make the laws, or the 
magistrate, be less respected, and every endeavour to break the 
chain of subordination, so necessary in civil society, tends to 
the destruction of government, and to the introduction of 
anarchy and confusion. 

That factious, turbulent, licentious minds, should make this 
their constant employment, is not to be wondered at; but 
people of sense, judgment, and abilities, to make it their study, 
is amazing indeed !—What end can it answer? What purpose’ 
can it serve? If our superiors should do any thing contrary to 
the laws, or prejudicial to the interests of this country ; if they” 
should use any means to encroach upon our liberties, to de- 
prive us of our privileges, or to subvert that happy form of go- 
vernment which we now enjoy ; surely there are other means of 
redress left, besides calumniating magistrates, judges, generals, 
and ministers. Though party prejudice, and the fluence of 
passion, may carry even men of sense to extraordinary lengths 
sometimes, yet I am convinced, that a cool dispassionate mo- 
ment’s reflection, will point out more constitutional remedies ~ 
for all our misfortunes, than a factious appeal to a giddy, un- © 
thinking, uninformed mob: and. very little demonstration - 
will be necessary to make it evident, that the unbounded abuse ~ 
of dignities tends to make the bulk of the people trample on 
alllaw, despise subor dination, and destroy that government.from 
which they claim protection. 

Junius is possessed of superior abilities; he has a flow of 
fine language at his command, his composition is masterly, 
his stile elegant, and the arrangement of his words is beautiful 
and harmonious. What excellent purposes might these 

talents 


JUNIUS. ° 85 


Junius asks what instances my friend has 
given of his military skill and capacity as a ge- 
neral? When and where he gained his honour? 
When he deserved his emoluments? The united 


talents serve, were they employed for the service of his coun- 
try! What a pity they should be prostituted to depreciate 
government, and made subservient to such unphilosophic pas- 
sions! unworthy of the man—unworthy of the pen of the 
accomplished Junius !—Not one of the king’s servants escapes 
him ; but (for what cause heaven knows) his most pointed 
shafts have been directed against the Commander in Chief, who 
is, perhaps, the most unexceptionable character in the present 
administration. I was in hopes Sir W. Draper would have 
continued a defence so worthy of his abilities; but I imagine 
he is so busy at present about building his temple to Concord, 
and perhaps so taken up with his new friend, Mr. Wilkes, that 
he has forgot the correspondence he gave rise to, where Lord 
Granby is attacked in a most unpardonable manner ; where 
he has been insulted as a soldier, despised as a general, his ge- 
nerosity laughed at, and even his private hours of social 
relaxation have been most ungenerously held up as an object 
of ridicule to the public eye.-—For shame, Junius!—this was 
not well done.—Whatever censure may be due to a man’s 
public character, it is unmanly—it is cruel—it is unjust, to 
bring the secrets of social amusement, and the unguarded hour 
of convivial enjoyment, to be held out as an object of censure 
to the unfriendly world !—Have you a spark of generosity left, 
Junius! and can you read this without a blush ? 

My Lord Granby’s character, as a man, as a soldier, and even 
as a general, will stand the test. ‘The honesty of his heart, the 
integrity of his intentions, his intrepidity as a soldier, and his 
conduct as an officer, are unimpeached. It is true, his talents 
as Commander in Chief have never been tried in the field ; but 
if we may be allowed to judge from the whole of his conduct 

during 


B86 LETTERS OF 


voice of the army which served under him, the 
glorious testimony of Prince Ferdinand, and of 
vanquished enemies, all Germany will tell him. 
Junius repeats the complaints of the army against 


during the Jate war in Germany, where the execution of many 
important enterprizes were intrusted to him by one of the 
greatest generals, and one of the best judges of military merit 
in Europe, we may form great expectations, with the highest 
probability of not being disappointed—He knows how to obey; 
he knows that a good soldier never disputes the commands of his 
superior. He always discharged his duty to the satisfaction of 
Duke Ferdinand, whose approbation, thanks, and ‘acknowledge- 
ments he repeatedly obtained. Wherever he was employed, 
he gained honour to himself—he was beloved and esteemed 
by the army under his command—he was honoured and re- 
spected by the enemy-——dear to the victors! generous to the 
vanquished! You know, Junius, that he feared not to lead on 
the cavalry at Minden. He gained glory and honour at War- 
burg. It was the corps under his command who fought and 
gained the battle of Phillinghausen. He was principally con- 
cerned, and acted as became the soldier and general at Wil- 
helmstahl. And towards the end of the war, when the army 
was so situated, that if a rising ground on the left had been 
taken possession of by the French, it might have been attended 
with the worst consequences ; and when the generals destined 
to lead a corps to occupy it, declared the service impracticable, 
my Lord Granby arose from a sick-bed, in the middle of the 
night, assumed the command of the corps, marched, with a 
fever upon him, in an inclement season, took possession of the 
post, and secured the army.—'This did the soldier ! 

Is it necessary to ask where my Lord deserved every thing he 
has got after this? These are but few instances, among nrany 
others, where his Lordship acquired unfading laurels. But after 
all, what are the posts—what are the employments of trust and 
profit 


JUNIUS. 87. 


parliamentary influence. I love the army too 
well; not to wish that such influence were less. 
Let Junius point out the time when. it has not 


profit which he has centered. in himself and family, since he 
became Commander in Chief? He is at the head of the army 
without pay; one of the name of Manners has been promoted 
from half-pay to a troop, and another he has appointed his aid- 
de-camp : and those of his friends, who have been distinguished 
by royal favour, are so eminent in their profession, that 
hitherto the tongue of malice has not dared to move against 
them. His own employments are marks of royal favour and 
confidence, the consequence of long and faithful services.— 
These were not acquired by factious conduct, or licentious scrib- 
bling: no, Sir, he, like every man of honour, would disdain to 
be distinguished by such inglorious means. 

Well do you know, Junius, that it would have been in vain 
for my Lord Granby to have opposed the nomination of my 
Lord Percy ; and you know as well, that this is not the first 
time ministerial influence has been too powerful for a military 
commander. It is equally ungenerous and unjust therefore, to 
say that he has betrayed the interests of the army. It is 
well known, that the general condition of the army is better, 
much better, at present, than it has been for many years, even 
in America, and the garrisons abroad ; your information there- 
fore is ill founded in this point ; but the truth is, Junius is no 
friend to Lord Granby, and is willing to believe, and ready to 
propagate every infamous report to his disadvantage. 

My Lord Granby’s generosity, Sir, knows no bounds; but 
it is directed to much nobler objects than you would endeavour 
to insinuate. Often have I seen his generous hand stretched 
out to supply the wants of the needy soldier; nor did the 
meanest follower of the camp go hungry from his door. His 
house was open equally to British and foreigners: his table 
was hospitality itself, and his generous, open countenance gave 

a hearty 


88 LETTERS OF 


prevailed. It was of the least force in the time 
of that great man, the late Duke of Cumberland, 
who, as a prince of the blood, was able as well 


a hearty welcome to all his guests. Hence harmony reigned 
through the whole army, disputes had no existence, and offi- 
cers of different nations emulated the social virtues of the 
British chief. By such means he gained the hearts of all the 
army ; they followed him with confidence, and fought under 
him from attachment. No danger was too much—no attempt 
too daring, under his command. Whatever Junius may 
think (though he may, for aught I know, be perfectly un- 
acquainted with them himself) the gaining the affections of 
the soldiers will always be esteemed no mean (ae in 
a general. 

My Lord Granby has his foibles and weaknesses, no diniet 
of it; so has every man. Is there one on earth perfect ? But, 
io expose these foibles and weaknesses with all the power of 
persuasive language, while you conceal, slightly pass over, or 
endeavour to ridicule those shining parts of his character, 
those eminent virtues which you cannot imitate, it is —— 
rous, and very unlike the gentleman. 

You will forgive me I hope, Mr. Printer, for troubling you. 
with an epistle of such an amazing length ; but I hope you 
will think with me, that the subject required it. I acknow> 
ledge myself very unequal to speak of my Lord as he deserves ; 
but I have attempted this much, from an opinion that when 
such an unexceptionable character is attacked, the defence be-_ 
comes a public concern. It matters not, whether the malicious _ 
dart be pointed from the closet courage of a disgraced soldier, 
the oratorical powers of a disappointed dependant politician, or 
from the mad ravings of a lunatic adventurer; the sensible, 
unprejndiced part of mankind will see their infamous motives, 
and they will alike despise the illiberal production and the 
wngenerous author, TITUS, 


2 


JUNIUS. 89 


as willing to stem a torrent which would have 
overborne any private subject. In time of war 
this influence is small. In peace, when discon- 
tent and faction have the surest means to ope- 
rate, especially in this country, and when, from 
a scarcity of public spirit, the wheels of govern- 
ment are rarely moved, but by the power and 
force of obligations, its weight is always too 
great. Yet, if this influence at present has 
done no greater harm than the placing Earl 
Percy at the head of a regiment, I do not think 
that either the rights or best interests of the 
army are sacrificed and betrayed, or the nation 
undone. Let me ask Junius, if he knows any 
one nobleman in the army, who has had a regi- 
ment by seniority? I feel myself happy in see- 
ing young noblemen of illustrious name and 
great property come among us. ‘They are an 
additional security to the kingdom from foreign 
or domestic slavery. Junius needs not be told, 
that should the time ever come, when this nation 
is to be defended only by those, who have no- 
thing more to lose than their arms and their pay, 
its danger will be great indeed. A happy mix- 
ture of men of quality with soldiers of fortune 
is always to be wished for. But the main point 
is still to be contended for, I mean the discipline 
and condition of the army, and [ still must 
maintain, though contradicted by Junius, that 


90 LETTERS OF 


it was never upon a more respectable footing, as 
to all the essentials that can form good soldiers, 
than it is at present. Junius is forced to allow 
that our army at home may be in some tolerable 
order; yet how kindly does he invite our late 
enemies to the invasion of Ireland, by assuring 
them that the army in that kingdom is totally 
ruined! (The colonels of that army are much 
obliged to him.) I have too great an opinion of 
the military talents of the lord-lieutenant, and 
of their diligence and capacity, to believe it. 
If from some strange, unaccountable fatality, the 
people of that kingdom cannot be induced to 
consult their own security, by such an effectual 
augmentation, as may enable the troops there 
to act with power and energy, is the commander 
in chief here to blame? Or is he to blame, be- 
cause the troops in the Mediterranean, in the 
West Indies, in America, labour under great 
difficulties from the scarcity of men, which is 
but too visible all over these kingdoms! Many 
of our forces are in climates unfavourable to 
British constitutions : their loss is in proportion. 
Britain must recruit all these regiments from her 
own emaciated bosom, or, more precariously, by 
Catholics from Ireland. We are likewise sub- 
ject to the fatal drains to the East Indies, to 
Senegal, and the alarming emigrations of our 
people to other countries: Such depopulation 


JUNIUS. 91 


can only be repaired by a long peace, or by 
some sensible bill of naturalization. 

I must now take the liberty to talk to Juntus 
on my own account. He is pleased to tell me 
that he addresses himself to me personally. I 
shall be glad to see him. It is his émpersonality 
that I complain of, and his invisible attacks ; 
for his dagger in the air is only to be regarded, 
because one cannot see the hand which holds it ; 
but had he not wounded other people more deep- 
ly than myself, I should not have obtruded my- 
self at all on the patience of the public. 

Mark how a plain tale shall put him down, 
and transfiuse the blush of my ribband into his 
own cheeks. Junius tells me, that at my re- 
turn, I zealously undertook the cause of the 
gallant army, by whose bravery at Manilla my 
own fortunes were established; that I com- 
plained, that I even appealed to the public. I 
did so; I glory in having done so, as I had an 
undoubted right to vindicate my own character, 
attacked by a Spanish memorial, and to assert 
the rights of my brave companions. I glory 
jikewise that I have never taken up my pen, but 
to vindicate the injured. Junius asks by what 
accident did it happen, that in the midst of all 
this bustle, and all these clamours for justice to 
the injured troops, the Manilla ransom was sud- 
denly buried in a profound, and, since that time, 


92 LETTERS OF 


an uninterrupted silence? I will explain the 
cause to the public. ‘The several ministers whe 
have been employed since that time have been 
very desirous to do.us justice from two most laud- 


able motives, a strong inclination to assist injured 


bravery, and to acquire.a well deserved popula, 


rity to themselves. ‘Their efforts have been in. 


vain. Some were ingenuous enough to own, 
that they could not think of involving this dis- 
tressed nation into another war for our private 


concerns. In short, our rights for the present, 


are sacrificed to national convenience; and I 
must confess, that although I may lose five-and- 
twenty thousand pounds by their acquiescence to 


this breach of faith in the Spaniards, I think they , 


are in the right to temporize, considering the 
critical situation of this country, convulsed in 


every part by poison infused by anonymous, . 
wicked, and incendiary writers. Lord Shelburne: - 
will do me the justice to own, that, in September,, 


last, I waited upon him with a joint memorial), 
from the admiral Sir S. Cornish and myself,.in. 


behalf of our injured companions. His lordship 
was as frank upon the occasion as other secreta- 
ries had been before him. He did not deceive 
us by giving any immediate hopes of relief. 
Junius would basely insinuate, that my silence 
may have been purchased by my government, 


by my blushing ribband, by my regiment, by the. 


ad 


= 


1) 


JUNIUS. 93 


sale of that regiment, and by = half-pay as an 
Trish ‘colonel. 

His Majesty was pleased to give me my go- 
vernment*, for my services at Madras. I had my 
first regiment in 1757. Upon my return from Ma- 
nilla, his Majesty, by Lord Egremont, informed 
me; that I should have the first vacant red rib- 
band, as a reward for my services in an enter- 
prize, which I had planned as well as executed. 
The Duke of Bedford and Mr. Grenville con- 
firmed those assurances many months before the 
Spaniards had protested the ransom bills: To 
accommodate Lord Clive, then going upon a 
most important service to Bengal, I waved my 
claim to the vacancy whieh then happened. As 
there was no other vacancy until the Duke of 
Grafton and Lord Rockingham were joint mi- 

‘nisters, I was then honoured with the order, and 
it is surely no small honour to me, that in sucha 
succession of ministers, they were all pleased to 
think that I had deserved it; in my favour they 
were all united. Upon the reduction of the 
79th regiment, which had served so gloriously in 
the East Indies, his Majesty, unsolicited by me, 
gave me the 16th of foot as an equivalent... My 
motives for retiring afterwards are foreign to the 
purpose; let it suffice, that his Majesty was 


* Yarmouth, EDIT. 


84 LETTERS OF 


pleased to approve of them; they are such as no 
man can think indecent, who knows the shocks 
that repeated vicissitudes of heat and cold, of 
dangerous and sickly climates, will give to thé 
best constitutions in a pretty long course of ser- 
vice. I resigned my regiment to Colonel Gis- 
borne, a very good officer, for his halfspay, 2007. 
Irish annuity ;* so that, according to Junius, I 
have been bribed to say nothing more of the 
Manilla ransom, and sacrifice those brave men 
by the strange avarice of accepting three hun- 
dred and eighty pounds per annum, and giving 
up eight hundred! If this be bribery, it is not 
the bribery of these times. As to my flattery, 
those who know me will judge of it. By the 
asperity of Junrus’s stile, I‘cannot indeed call 


* The letter, as it appeared in the Public Advertiser, stated; 
by mistake; ‘ ¢welve hundred pounds Irish annuity!” and the 
error has been hitherto propagated through every edition of 
Junius’s Letters, without a single exception. In a note ad- 
dressed to the printer, however, and published in the same 
newspaper, Feb. 22, 1769, the mistake is announced, and cor- 
rected as follows. 

SIR, 

I beg the favour of you to correct the following error 
in my answer to Junius. 

Instead of 12001. please to put, “ and 200/. Irish a 

I am, Sir, 
Yours, &e. 
W. DRAPER. 


Feb. 19, EDIT. 


JUNIUS. | 95 


him a flatterer, unless it be as a cynic or a mase 
tiff; if he wags his tail, he will still growl, and 
long to bite. The public will now judge of the 
credit that ought to be given to Juntus’s writ- 
ings, from the falsities that he has insinuated with 
respect to myself. 

WILLIAM DRAPER, 


LETTER V. 
TO SIR WILLIAM DRAPER, KNIGHT OF THE BATH. - 


SIR, 21 February, 1769. 


I snoutp justly be suspected of acting 
upon motives of more than common enmity to 
Lord Granby, if I continued to give you fresh 
materials or occasion for writing in his defence. 
Individuals who hate, and the public who despise 
him, have read your letters, Sir William, with 
infinitely more satisfaction than mine. Unfor- 
tunately for him, his reputation, like that un- 
happy country to which you refer me for his last 
military achievements, has suffered more by his 
friends than his enemies. In mercy to him, let 
us drop the subject. For my own part, I -will- 
ingly leave it to the public to determine whether 
your vindication of your friend has been as able 
and judicious, as it was certainly well intended ; 

6 


96 LETTERS OF 


and you, I think, may be satisfied with the 
warm acknowledgments he already owes you for 
making him the principal figure in a piece, in 
which, but for your amicable assistance, he 
might have passed without particular notice or 
distinction 
In justice to your friends, let yout future 
labours be confined to the care of your own 
reputation. Your declaration, that you are happy 
in seeing young noblemen come among us, is 
liable to two objections. With respect to Lord 
Perey, it means nothing, for he was already in 
the army. He was aid-de-camp to the King, 
and had the rank of colonel. A regiment there- 
fore could not make him a more military man, 
though it made him richer, and probably at the 
expence of some brave, deserving, friendless 
officer.—The other concerns yourself. After 
selling the companions of your victory in one 
instance, and after selling your profession in 
the other, by what authority do you presume 
to call yourself a soldier? The plain evidence 
of facts is superior to all declarations. Before 
you were appointed to the 16th regiment, your 
complaints were a distress to government;— 
from that moment you were silent. The con- 
clusion is inevitable. You insinuate to us that 
your ill state of health obliged -you to quit the 
service. The retirement necessary to repair a 


JUNIUS. 97 


broken: constitution would have been as good. 
a reason for not accepting, as for resigning the 
command. of a regiment. ‘There is. certainly 
an error of the press, or an affected obscurity 
in. that. paragraph, where you speak of your 
bargain with colonel Gisborne*. Instead of 
attempting to answer what I really do not under- 
stand, permit me to explain to the public what 
I really know. In exchange for your regiment, 
you accepted of a colonel’s half-pay (at least 
220/. a year) and an annuity of 200/. for your 
own and lady Draper’s life jointly. And is 
this the losing bargain, which you would repre- 
sent to us, as if you had given up an income of 
800/. a year for 380/.? Was it decent, was it 
honourable, in a man who pretends to love the 
army, and calls himself a soldier, to make a 
traffic of the royal favour, and turn the highest 
honour of an active profession into a sordid 
provision for himself and his family? It were 
unworthy of me to press you farther. The 
contempt with which the whole army heard 
of the manner of your retreat, assures me that 
as your conduct was not justified by precedent, 
it will never be thought an example for imita- 
tion, 

The last and most important question re- 


* See the error corrected in the Editor’s note to the pre- 
ceding Letter. Epir. 
VOL. I. H 


98 LETTERS OF 


mains. When you receive your half-pay, do 
you, or do you~ not, take a solemn oath, 
or sign a declaration upon honour, to. the 
following effect? That you do not actually hold 
any place of profit, civil or military, under his 
Majesty. ‘The charge which this question plainly 
conveys against you, is of so shocking a com- 
plexion, that I sincerely wish you may be able 
to answer it well, not merely for the colour of 
your. reputation, but for your own inward peace 


of mind. . 
JUNIUS. 


' LETTER VI. 


TO JUNIUS. 
SIR, 27 February, ‘1769. 


I HAVE a very short answer for Junqus’s 
important question: I do not either take an 
oath, or declare upon honour, that I have no 
place of profit, civil or military, when I receive 
the half-pay as an Irish colonel. My most 
gracious Sovereign gives it me as a pension; he 
was pleased to think I deserved it. The an- 
nuity of 200/. Irish, and the equivalent for. the 
half-pay together, produce no more than 3801. 
per- annum, clear of fees and perquisites of 
office. I receive 167/. from my government of 


JUNIUS. 99 


Yarmouth. Total 547/. per annum. My con- 
science is much at ease in these particulars; 
my friends need not blush for me. 

Juntus makes much and frequent use of 
interrogations: they are arms that may be easily 
turned against himself. I could, by malicious 
interrogations, disturb the peace of the most 
virtuous man in the kingdom; I could take the 
decalogue, and say to one man, Did you never 
steal? To the next, Did you never commit 
murder? And to Juntus himself, who is put- 
ting my life and conduct to the rack, Did you 
never bear false witness against thy neighbour ? 
Junius must easily see, that unless he affirms 
the contrary in his real name, some people who 
may be as ignorant of him as I am, will be apt 
to suspect him of having deviated a little from 
the truth: therefore let Juntus ask no more 


questions. You bite against a file: cease viper. 
WwW. D: 


LETTER VII. 


TO SIR WILLIAM DRAPER, KNIGHT OF THE BATH. 


SIR, 3 March, 17169. 


An academical education has given 
you an unlimited command over the most 
beautiful figures of speech. Masks,’ hatchets, 

H 2 


100 LETTERS OF 


racks, and vipers dance through your letters in 
all the mazes of metaphorical confusion. These 
are the gloomy companions of a disturbed imagi- 
nation; the melancholy madness of poetry, with- 
out the inspiration. I will not contend with 
you in point of composition. You are a scholar, 
Sir William, and, if I am truly informed, you 
write Latin with almost as much purity as 
English. Suffer me then, for I am a plain un- 
lettered man, to continue that stile of interroga- 
tion, which suits. my capacity, and to which, 
considering the readiness of your answers, you 
ought to have no objection. Even Mr. Bingley* 
promises to answer, if put to the torture. 


* This man, being committed by the court of King’s 
Bench for a contempt, voluntarily made oath, that he would 
never answer interrogatories, unless he should be put to the 
torture. AUTHOR. 

Bingley was by trade a bookseller; and in the character here 
referred to, a witness for the crown, in a cause between govern- - 
ment and Wilkes. It is difficult to say for what purpose this 
man was subpeenaed on either side; for his obstinacy was so 
extreme, thathe could not be induced to answer the interroga- 
tories addressed to him on the part either of the plaintiff or 
defendant. It was on this account he was committed to the 
King’s Bench prison, where he continued as refractory as in 
the King’s Bench court—he was at length discharged, on the 
motion of the attorney general, without any submission on 
his own part, from the mere idea that he had suffered severely 
enough for his: contumacy.—See a further account of this. 
transaction, Junius, Letter xL1. EDIT. 


7 


JUNIUS. 101 


Do you then really think that, if I were 
to ask a most virtuous man whether he ever 
committed theft, or murder, it would disturb 
his peace of mind? Such a question might 
perhaps discompose the gravity of his muscles, 
but I believe it would little affect the tranquillity 
of his conscience. Examine your own breast, 
Sir William, and you will discover, that re- 
proaches and enquiries have no power to afflict 
either the man of unblemished integrity, or the 
abandoned profligate. It is the middle com- 
pound character which alone is vulnerable: the 
man, who, without firmness enough to avoid a 
dishonourable action, has feeling enough to be 
ashamed of it. 

I thank you for your hint of the decalogue, 
and shall take an opportunity of applying it to 
some of your most virtuous friends in both houses 
of parliament. 

You seem to have dropped the affair of your 
regiment; so let it rest. When you are ap- 
pointed to another, I dare say you will not sell 
it either for a gross sum, or for an annuity 
upon lives. 

I am truly glad (for really, Sir William, I 
am not your enemy, nor did I begin this contest 
with you*) that you have been able to clear 


* The politics of Sir William Draper were certainly not 


violent, and he appears to have been rather a private friend of 
the 


102 LETTERS OF 


yourself of a crime, though at the expence of 
the highest indiscretion. You say that your 
half-pay was given you by way of pension. I 
will not dwell upon the singularity of uniting 
in your own person two sorts of provision, 
which in their own nature, and in all military 


the Marquis’s than a partisan on either side of the question. 
The following letter, published by him in the Public Advertiser, 
in the very midst of his dispute with Junrus, is highly 
creditable to his liberality, and sufficiently proves the truth of 
the assertion of Junius, that he could not be, at least upon 
political principles, Sir William’s enemy. 


TO THE PRINTER. 


SIR, Clifton, February 6th, 769. 


Ir the voice of a well-meaning individual could be 
heard amidst the clamour, fury, and madness of the times, 
would it appear too rash and presumptuous to propose to the 
public that an act of indemnity and oblivion may be made for 
all past transactions and offences, as well with respect to ‘Mr. 
Wilkes as to our colonies? Such salutary expedients have 
been embraced by the wisest of nations : such.expedients have 
been made use of by our own, when the public confusion 
had arrived to some very dangerous and alarming crisis; and 
I believe it needs not the gift of prophecy to foretel that some 
such crisis is now approaching. Perhaps it will be more 
wise and praiseworthy to make such an act immediately, in _ 
order to prevent the possibility (not to say the probability) of an © 
insurrection at home and in our dependencies abroad, than. it 
will be to be obliged to have recourse to one after the mischief 
has been done, and the kingdom has groaned under all the 
miseries that avarice, ambition, hypocrisy, and madness, 

could 


JUNIUS. 103 


and parliamentary views, are incompatible ; but 
I call upon you to justify that declaration, where- 
in you charge your Sovereign -with having done 
an act in your favour, notoriously against law. 
The half-pay, both in Ireland and England, is 
appropriated by parliament; and if it be given 


could inflict upon it. An act of grace, indemnity, and 
oblivion, was passed at the restoration of King Charles the 
second; but I will venture to say that had such an act been 
seasonably passed in the reign of his unhappy father, the civil 
war had been prevented, and no restoration had been necessary. 
It is too late to recall all the messengers and edicts of wrath. 
Cannot the money that is now wasted in endless and mutual 
prosecutions, and in stopping the mouth of one person, and 
opening that of another, be better employed in erecting a 
temple to Concord? Let Mr. Wilkes lay the first stone, and 
such a stone as I hope the builders will not refuse. May this 
parliament, to use Lord Clarendon’s expression, be called 
« The healing parliament !” May our foul wounds be cleansed 
and then closed! The English have been as famous for good- 
nature as for valour: let it not be said that such qualities are 
degenerated into savage ferocity. If any of my friends in 
either house of legislature shall condescend to listen to and 
improve these hints, I shall think that I have not lived in 
vain. 
WILLIAM DRAPER. 
Sir William, in return, if he ever had any personal enmity 
azainst Junius, appears to have relinquished it completely a 
short time after the contest, if we may judge from the follow- 
ing anecdote given by Mr. Campbell in his life of Hugh Boyd, 
p- 185. 
«« Some months after the Letters of Juntus were published 
collectively, Boyd met Sir William Draper at the tennis court, 
where 


104 LETTERS OF 


to persons who, like you, are legally incapable 
of holding it, it isa breach of law. It would 
have been more decent in you to have called 
this dishonourable transaction by its true name; 
a job to accommodate two persons, by particular 
interest and management at the castle. What 
sense must government have had of your 
services, when the rewards they have given you 
are only a disgrace to you! 

And now, Sir William, I shall take my 
leave of you for ever. Motives very different 
from any apprehension of your resentment, 
make it impossible you should ever know me. 
In truth, you have some reason to hold your- 
self indebted to me. Irom the lessons I have 
given you, you may collect a profitable instruct- 
ion for your future life. They will either teach 
you so to regulate your conduct, as to be able 
to set the most malicious inquiries at defiance ; 
or, if that be a lost hope, they will teach you 
prudence enough not to attract the public at- 
tention to a character, which will only pass 


where their acquaintance was originally formed in the year 
1769, and where (being both great tennis players) they used 
often to meet; the conversation turning upon Junius, Sir 
William observed, “ That though Junius had treated him 
with extreme severity, he now looked upon him asa very 
honest fellow ; that he freely forgave him for the bitterness of 
his censures, and that there was no man with whom he would 
more gladly drink a bottle of old Burgundy.” prr, 


JUNIUS. 105 


without censure, when it passes without obser- 


vation. 
JUNIUS., 


It has been said, and I believe truly, that it was signified 
‘to Sir William Draper, as the request of Lord Granby, that he 
should desist from writing in his Lordship’s defence. Sir 
William Draper certainly drew Junius forward to say more of 
Lord Granby’s character, than he originally intended. He was 
reduced to the dilemma of either being totally silenced, or of 
supporting his first letter. Whether Sir William had a right 
to reduce him to this dilemma, or to call upon him for his name, 
after a voluntary attack on his side, are questions submitted to 
the candor of the public—The death of Lord Granby was la- 
mented by Junius. He undoubtedly owed some compensations 
to the public, and seemed determined to acquit himself of 
them. In private life, he was unquestionably that good man, 
who, for the interest of his country, ought to have been a great 
one. Bonum virum facile dixeris ;—magnum libenter. I speak 
of him now without partiality ;—I never spoke of him with 
resentment. His mistakes, in public conduct, did not arise 
either from want of sentiment, or want of judgment, but in 
general from the difficulty of saying no to the bad people who 
surrounded him. 

As for the rest, the friends of Lord Granby should remember, 
that he himself thought proper to condemn, retract, and dis- 
avow, by a most solemn declaration in the House of Commons, - 
that very system of political conduct, which Junius had held 
forth to the disapprobation of the public. autor. 

This took place January the 30th, 1770, in a committee on 
the state of the nation, in which the affair of the Middlesex 
election was particularly discussed; and on which occasion the 
Marquis of Granby delivered himself as follows :— 

“Tam sorry I am obliged to declare myself against the 
motion ; but I cannot see what right this House can have to re- 
eeiye any person into it asa member except by the full choice of 
his constituents. It was for want of considering the nice dis- 

tinction 


106 LETTERS OF 


LETTER VIII. 
TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF GRAFTON. 
MY LORD, 18 March, 1769. 


Berore you were placed at the head 
of affairs, it had been a maxim of the English 
government, not unwillingly admitted by the 


tinction between expulsion and incapacitation that I gave my 
vote for the sitting of a member who was not returned in the 
last session of this parliament. That vote I shall always lament 
as.the greatest misfortune of my life. I now see the Middle- 
sex election in another light: I now see that though this House 
has an unquestionable and long established right to expel, yet 
that a right to incapacitate is lodged only in the legislature col- 
lectively. I see that I was in an error, and I am not ashamed 
to make this public declaration of it, and give my vote for the 
amendment.” 

The belief of Junius, “ that it was signified to Sir W. D. 
as the request of Lord G. that he should desist from writing in 
his Lordship’s defence,” is farther confirmed by the following 
notice appended to a letter on the subject of this controversy, 
signed Aurelius, inserted in the Public Advertiser, March 11, 
1769. “We must now beg leave to drop this dispute, as the 
printer has received a hint that its continuance will be Sane 
able.” 

Sir W. Draper, as far as Lord Gries was Apricot 
dropped the subject ; though he subsequently wrote the follow- 
ing letter in defence of his own conduct, in which he again calls 
upon Junius to avow himself. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 
SIR, Clifton, April 24th, 1769. 


A Gentleman who signed, himself .4n Half-pay 
Subaltern, has ealled upon me to stand forth in the behalf of 
the 


JUNIUS. 107 


people, that every ungracious or severe exertion 
of the prerogative should be placed to the ac- 
count of the Minister; but that whenever an 


the much distressed officers now upon half-pay. He was 
pleased to say, that I have an effectual method of being really 
serviceable to the officers of my reduced regiment. I should 
have been happy in receiving, by a private letter, that gentle- 
man’s idea of relief for them ; could have wished he had made 
use of a more agreeable mode of application than a public 
newspaper; as unluckily’ these d/l seasoned provocatives are 
more apt to disgust than quicken the desire of doing good, es- 
pecially when they are accompanied by invidious reflections, 
both rash and ill founded: at present I am quite at a loss to 
find out by what means a person out of parliament, who has 
long retired from the great world, and who of course has but 
very little influence or interest, can be of much use to those 
gallant and distressed gentlemen; to many of whom I have 
the greatest obligations ; of which I have upon ail occasions, 
made the most public and grateful acknowledgments ; nor was 
there the smallest necessity to wake me in this loud manner to 
a remembrance of their important services, although the 
writer has been pleased to charge me with forgetfulness; a 
most heavy imputation ! as it implies ingratitude towards those 
by whom I have been so essentially assisted, and to whom I 
am so much indebted for my good fortune ; which however is 
not so great as the gentleman imagines: he himself forgets 
that the Spaniards have also forgot to pay the ransom. If he 
could quicken their memory, instead of mine, the aloes 
would be more obliged to him. 

Their bravery has given me a competency, a golden medio- 
crity, but net much affluence or luxury, which is a stranger to 
my house as well as to my thoughts ; and I here most solemnly 
declare (notwithstanding the false assertions of a Junius, who 
has told the world that I had sold the partners of my victory, 
and then gravely asked me if I were not guilty of perjury) that 

my 


108 LETTERS OF 


act of grace or benevolence was to be perform- 
ed, the whole merit of it should be attributed 
to the Sovereign himself *. It was a wise doc- 


my income is now less than when I first went to Manilla. | It 
istrue, that its being so is by my own choice: I am volunta- 
rily upon an equivalent for half-pay ; and although I would 
most willingly stand forth in the service of my king and coun- 
try, should the necessity of the times demand my poor assist- 
ance, yet I would not again accept of any regiment whatsoever, 
or interfere with the pretensions of those officers, whose good 
fortune has been Jess than their merits; and I here most 
solemnly declare, that I never received either from the East 
India Company, or from the Spaniards, directly or indirectly, 
any present or gratification, or any circumstance of emolu- 
ment whatsoever to the amount of five shillings, during the 
whole course of the expedition, or afterwards, my legal prize- 
money excepted. The Spaniards know that I refused the sum 
of fifty thousand pounds offered me by the archbishop, to miti- 
gate the terms of the ransom, and to reduce it to half a million, 
instead of a whole one: so that had I been disposed to have 
basely sold the partners of my victory, avarice herself could 
not have wished for a richer opportunity. 

The many base insinuations, that have been of late thrown 
out to my disadvantage in the public papers, oblige me to have 
recourse to the same channel for my vindication ; and flatter 
myself that the public will be candid enough not to impute it 
to arrogance, vanity, or the impertinence of egotism; and 
hope that as much credit will be given to the assertions of a 
man, who is ready to seal his testimony with his blood, as to 
a writer, who when repeatedly called upon to avow himself, 
and personally maintain his accusation, still skulks in the dark, 
or in the mean subterfuge of a mask. 

W.D. 

* Les rois ne se sont reservé que les graces. IIs renvoient les 

condemmations vers leurs officiers. Montesquieu, 


JUNIUS. 109 


trine, my Lord, and equally advantageous to the 
King and to his subjects ; for while it preserved 
that suspicious attention, with which the people 
ought always to examine the conduct of minis- 
ters, it tended at the same time rather to in- 
crease than to diminish their attachment to the 
person of their Sovereign. If there be not a 
fatality attending every measure you are con- 
cerned in, by what treachery, or by what ex- 
cess of folly has it happened, that those un- 
gracious acts, which have distinguished your ad- 
ministration, and which I doubt not were en- 
tirely your own, should carry with them a strong 
appearance of personal interest, and even of 
personal enmity in a quarter, where no such in- 
terest or enmity can be supposed to exist, with- 
out the highest injustice and the highest dis- 
honour? On the other hand, by what judicious 
management have you contrived it, that the 
only act of mercy, to which you ever advised 
your Sovereign, far from adding to the lustre of 
a character, truly gracious and benevolent, 
should be received with universal disapprobation 
and disgust? I shall consider it as a ministerial 
measure, because it is an odious one, and as 
your measure, my Lord Duke, because you are 
the minister. 

As long as the trial of this chairman was 


110 LETTERS OF 


depending*, it was natural enough that goverti- 
ment should give him every possible encourage- 
ment and support. The honourable service for 
which he was hired, and the spirit with which 
he performed it, made common cause between 
your Grace and him. ‘The minister, who by 
secret corruption invades the freedom of elec- 
tions, and the ruffian, wh» by open violence de- 
stroys that freedom, are embarked in the same 
bottom. They have the same interests, and. 
mutually feel for each other. To do justice to” 
your Grace’s humanity, you felt for Mac Quirk 
as you ought to do, and if you had been con- 
tented to assist him indirectly, without a noto- 
rious denial of justice, or openly insulting the 
sense of the nation, you might have satisfied 


* The contest for the Middlesex election, in which Wilkes, 
though an outlaw, was four times returned through the favour 
of the populace, was conducted on both sides with the utmost 
violence and outrage. The court as well as the popular party 
had its committees and its hired mobs. Edward M‘Quirk was 
one of the persons employed in the latter capacity, and how 
resolutely he fulfilled his office in heading one of the court mobs 
may be collected from his having been chiefly concerned in a 
fray, in which a man of the name of Clarke, belonging to the 
opposite mob, was killed. M*‘Quirk was committed to prison, 
and, on his trial the jury found him guilty of murder, and he 
was of course condemned to be executed. By the advice of 
the minister, however, his majesty interposed with his royal 
grace, and M‘Quirk was pardoned. © EDIT. 


6 


JUNIUS. Ill 


every duty of political friendship, without com- 
mitting the honour of your Sovereign, or ha- 
zarding the reputation of his government. But 
when this unhappy man had been solemnly tried, 
convicted and condemned ;—when it appeared 
that he had been frequently employed: in the 
same services, and that no excuse for him could 
be drawn either from the innocence of his former 
life, or the simplicity of his character, was it 
not hazarding too much to interpose the strength 
of the prerogative between this felon and the 
justice of his country*? You ought to have 


* Whitehall, March 11, 1769. His Majesty has been gra- 
ciously pleased to extend his royal mercy to Edward M‘Quirk, 
found guilty of the murder of George Clarke, as appears by 
his royal warrant to the tenor following. 

GEORGE R. 

Wuereas a doubt had arisen in Our Royal breast concern- 
ing the evidence of the death of George Clarke, from the re- 
presentations of William Bromfield, Esq. surgeon, and Solomon 
Starling, apothecary ; both of whom, as has been represented 
to Us, attended the deceased before his death, and expressed 
their opinions that he did not die of the blow he received at 
Brentford: And whereas it appears to Us, that neither of the 
said persons were produced as witnesses upon the trial, though 
the. said Solomon Starling had been examined before the cor- 
oner, and the only person called to prove that the death of the 
said George Clarke was occasioned by the said blow, was John 
Foot, surgeon, who never saw the deceased till after his death ; 
We thought fit thereupon to refer the said representations, 
together with the report of the Recorder of Our city of London, 
of the evidence given by Richard and William Beale, and the 


said 


112 LETTERS OF 


known that an example of this sort was never so 
necessary as at present; and certainly you must 
have. known that the lot. could not have fallen: 
upon a more.guilty object. What system of 
government is this? You are perpetually com- 
plaining of the riotous disposition of the lower 
class of people, yet when the laws have given — 
you the means of making an example, in every 
sense unexceptionable, and by far the most 
likely to awe the multitude, you pardon the 


said John Foot, on the trial of Edward Quirk, otherwise called 
Edward Kirk, otherwise called Edward M‘Quirk, for the murder 
of the said Clarke, to the master, wardens, and the rest of the 
court of examiners of the Surgeons company, commanding them ~ 
likewise to take such further examination of the said persons 
so representing, and of said John Foot, as they might think 
necessary, together with the premisses abovementioned, to form 
and report to us their opinion, ‘‘ Whether it did or did not ap- 
pear to them, that the said George Clarke died in consequence ~ 
of the blow he received in the riot at Brentford on the 8th of _ 
December last.” And the said court of examiners of the — 

Surgeons company having thereupon reported to Us ‘their 


opinion, “That it did not appear to them that he did; We — 


have thought: proper to extend Our royal mercy to him the 
said Edward Quirk, otherwise Edward Kirk, otherwise called 
Edward M‘Quirk, and: to grant him Our free pardon for the 
Murder of the said George Clarke, of which he has been found 
guilty: Our willand pleasure therefore is, That he the’said— 
Edward Quirk, otherwise called Edward Kirk, otherwise called’ 
Edward M‘Quirk, be inserted, for the said murder, in our first 
and next general pardon that shall come out for the poor'con- 
victs of Newgate, without any condition whatsoever ; and that 
in 


JUNIUS. 113. 


offence, and are not ashamed to give the sane 
tion of government to the riots you complain 
of, and even to future murders. You are partial 
perhaps to the military mode of execution, and 
had rather see a score of these wretches butcher: 
ed by the guards, than one of them suffer death 
by regular course of law*. How does it happen, 
my Lord, that, in your hands, even the mercy 
of the prerogative is cruelty and oppression te 
the subject? 

The measure it seems was so extraordinary, 
that you thought it necessary to give some 
reasons for it to the public. Let them be fairly 
examined. 

1. You say that Messrs. Bromfield and Star 
ling were not examined at Mac Quirk’s trial. I 
will tell your Grace why they were not. They 
must have been examined upon oath; and it 


in the mean time you take bail for his appearance, in order to 
plead Our said pardon. And for so doing this shall be your 
warrant. 

Given at Our court at St. James’s the 10th day of March, 

1769, in the ninth year of Our reign. 
By his Majesty’s command, 

To Our trusty and well beloved James ROCHFORD. 

Eyre, Esq. Recorder of Our city of 

London, the Sheriffs of Our said 

city and county of Middlesex, and 

all others whom it may concern. 

* See this subject farther touched upon in Miscellaneous 
Letters, No. xxiv EDIT. 

VOL. I. I 


114 LETTERS OF 


was foreseen, that their evidence would either 
not benefit, or might ‘be prejudicial to the pri- 
soner. Otherwise, is it conceivable that his 
counsel should neglect to call in such’ material 
evidence ? i 
You say that Mr. Foot did not see the de- 
ceased until after his death. A surgeon, my Lord, 
must know very little of his profession, if, upon 
examining a wound, or a contusion, he cammot 
determine whether it was mortal or not.—While 
the party is alive, a surgeon will be cautious of 
pronouncing ; whereas, by the death of the pa- 
tient, he is enabled to consider both cause and 
effect in one view, and to speak iia a certainty 
confirmed by experience. 
. Yet’ we are to thank your Grace for the es- 
tablishment of a new tribunal. Your ingquisitio 
post mortem is unknown to the laws of England, 
and does honour to your invention*. The only 


* This sentence in a note to one of the editions of the 
Letters of Junius is said to have no correct meaning. “Junrus,” 
says the commentator, “thought that he had hit upon a for- 
cible and quaintly allusive expression, hastily used it, and 
blundered’ into nonsénse in the use.” The reader however 
‘shall now determine whether it is the author or the commen- 
tator who has blundered into nonsense. . 

The expression is, in fact, perfectly correct, though liable to 
be misunderstood without some attention. Every coroner’s 
inquest, indeed, except in the cases of ship-wreck and treasure- 
trove, is, when exercised judicially, an inquisttio post mortem ; 

* but it ean only legally take place super visum corporis, “on 
; the 


© JUNIUS. 115 


material objection to it is, that if Mr. Foot’s 
evidence was insufficient, because he did not 
examine the wound till after the death of the 
party, much less can a negative opinion, given 
by gentlemen who never saw the body of Mr. 
Clarke, either before or after his decease, autho- 
rize you to supersede the verdict ofa jury, and 
the sentence of the law. 

Now, my Lord, let me ask you, Has it never 
occurred to your Grace, while you were with- 
drawing this desperate wretch from that justice 
which the laws had awarded, and which the 
whole people of England demanded against him, 
that there is another man, who is the favourite 
of his country, whose pardon would have been 
accepted with gratitude, whose pardon would 
have healed all our divisions*? Have you quite 


the sight of the corpse or dead body ;’’ on the spot where the 
death was produced; and by a jury summoned from the 
neighbourhood. In the instance before us none of these con- 
stitutional requisites, were attended to; and Junius might 
hence remark with the strictest accuracy, as well as the keenest 
irony, Your inquisitio post mortem is unknown to the laws of 
England, Epirt. 

* John Wilkes, formerly, and before the duke of Grafton 
had abandoned the party of Lord Chatham, and had formed 
a party for himself, was one of his Grace’s most confidential 
friends. He was at this time confined in the King’s Bench 
prison, having surrendered-himself to the jurisdiction of the 
court of this name, by which the sentence of outlawry had 
been pronounced against him. The immediate cause of the 

12 ministerial 


116 LETTERS OF 


forgotten that this man was once your Grace’s 
friend? Or is it to murderers only that you will 
extend the mercy of the crown? 

These are questions you will not answer, 
nor is it necessary. The character of your 
private life, and the uniform tenour of your 
public conduct, is an answer to them all, 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER IX. 
TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF GRAFTON. 
MY LORD, 10 April, 1769. 


I Ave so good an opinion of your 
Grace’s discernment, that when the author of 


ministerial persecution of Wilkes, was the zeal with which he 
had opposed the existing cabinet, and especially the odium 
and disgrace in which the ministry had involved themselves by 
issuing a general warrant to seize all the papers and persons 
of whomsoever they suspected to be concerned in writing the 
forty-fifth number of the famous political and periodical paper 
called the North Briton, a joint publication of John Wilkes, 
Charles Churchill, and Lord Temple. The question of general 
warrants was hereby necessarily brought before the public. 
The popular resentment was roused against the abettors of such 
a measure to the highest point of irascibility ; and Wilkes, 
upon the next general election that ensued, was chosen member 
of parliament for the county of Middlesex, notwithstanding 
his outlawry, as a proof of the utter contempt in which the 
ministry were at this time held by the nation, rather than out 
of any personal regard for Wilkes himself, whose own mis- 
conduct must otherwise have been the ruin of him. -Bp4T, 


JUNIUS. 117 


the vindication of your conduct assures us, that 
he writes from his own mere motion, without 
the least authority from your Grace*, I should 
be ready enough to believe him, but for one fatal 
mark, which seems to be fixed upon every 
measure, in which either your personal or your 
political -echaracter is concerned.—Your first at- 
tempt to support Sir William Proctor ended in 
the election of Mr. Wilkes; the second ensured 
success to Mr. Glynn. ‘The extraordinary step 
you took to make Sir James Lowther lord para- 
mount of Cumberland, has ruined his interest 
in that county for evert. The House List of 
Directors was cursed with the concurrence of 
governmentt; and even the miserable Dingley 
could not escape the misfortune of your Grace’s 
protection§. With this uniform experience 


* He alludes to a pamphlet containing a long and laboured 
vindieation of the Duke of Grafton, attributed to the pen of Mr, 
Edward Weston, writer of the Gazette. knit. 

t+ See note upon the Nullum Tempus bill, Junius No. 
Lvu. in which the contest between Sir James Lowther and the 
Duke of Portland is detailed at large. Epi. 

¢ At this period the whole four and twenty directors were 
annually chosen, and ten gentlemen, whose names were not 
inserted in the house list, were elected, notwithstanding the 
influence of government was exerted in its support. Epir. 

§ This unfortunate person lad been persuaded by the Duke 
of Grafton to set up for Middlesex, his Grace being deter- 
mined to seat him in the House of Commons, if he had but a 
single yote. It happened unluckily, that he could not prevail 

upon 


118 LETTERS OF 


before us, we are authorized to suspect, that 
when a pretended vindication of your principles 
and conduct in reality contains the bitterest re- 
flections upon both, it could not have been 
written without your immediate direction and 
assistance... The author indeed ‘calls God *to 
witness for him, with all the sincerity, and in 
the very terms of an Irish evidence, ‘to the best 
of his knowledge and belief’ My Lord, you 
should not encourage these appeals to heaven. 
The pious Prince, from whom you are supposed 
to descend, made such frequent use of them in 
his public declarations, that at last the people 
also found it necessary to appeal to heaven in 
their turn. Your administration has driven us 
into circumstances of equal distress ; beware 
at least how you remind us of the remedy. 

You have already much to answer for. You 
have provoked this unhappy gentleman to play, 
the fool once more in public life, in spite of his 
years and infirmities, and to shew us, that, as 
you yourself are a singular instance of youth 
without spirit, the man who defends you is a no 
less remarkable example of age without the 
benefit of experience. To follow such a writer 
minutely: would, like his own periods, be a 
Jabour without end. ‘The subject too has been 


upon any one freeholder to put him in nomination, and it was 
with difficulty he escaped out of the hands of the populace. 


JUNIUS. i 119 


already. discussed, and is sufficiently understood. 
I cannot help observing, however, that, when 
the pardon of Mac Quirk was the principal 
charge against you, it would have been but a 
decent compliment to your Grace’s understand- 
ing, to have defended you upon your own 
principles. _What credit does a man deserve, 
who tells us plainly, that the facts set forth in 
the King’s proclamation were not the true 
motives on which the pardon was granted, and 
that he wishes that those chirurgical reports, 
which first gave occasion to certain doubts in 
the royal breast, had not been laid before his 
Majesty. You see, my Lord, that even your 
friends cannot defend your actions, without 
changing your principles, nor justify a deliberate 
measure of government, without contradicting 
the main assertion on which it was founded. 
The conviction of Mac Quirk had reduced 
you to.a dilemma, in which it was hardly 
possible for you to reconcile your political 
interest with your duty. You were obliged 
either to abandon an active useful partisan, 
or to. protect a felon from public justice. With 
your usual spirit, you preferred your interest to 
every other consideration ; and with your usual 
judgment, you founded your determination upon 
the only motives, which should not have been_ 
given to the public. | 


126 LETTERS OF 


I have frequently censured Mr. Wilkes’s 
conduct, yet your advocate reproaches me with 
having devoted myself to the service of sedition. 
Your Grace can best inform us, for which of 
Mr. Wilkes’s good qualities you first honoured 
him with your friendship, or how long it»was 
before you discovered those bad ones in him, at 
which, it seems, your delicacy was offended. 
Remember, my Lord, that you continued your 
connexion with Mr. Wilkes long after he had 
been convicted of those crimes, which you have 
since taken pains to represent in the blackest 
colours of blasphemy and treason. How un- 
lucky is it, that the first imstance you have 
given us of a scrupulous regard to decorum is 
united with the breach of a moral obligation! 
For my own part, my Lord, I am proud to 
affirm, that, if I had been weak enough to form 
such a friendship, I would never have been base 
enough to betray it. But, let Mr. Wilkes’s 
character be what it may, this at least is certain, 
that, circumstanced as he is with regard to the 
public, even his vices plead forhim. The people 
of England have too much discernment to suffer 
your Grace to take advantage of the failings 
of a private character, to establish a precedent: 
by which the public liberty is affected, and which 
you may hereafter, with equal ease and satisfac- 
tion, employ to the ruin of the best men in the, 


JUNIUS. ig] 


kingdom. Content yourself, my Lord, with 
the many advantages, which the unsullied purity 
of your own character has given you over your 
unhappy deserted friend. Avail yourself of all 
the unforgiving piety of the court you live in, 
and bless God that you “ are not as other men 
are; extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even 
as this publican.’? In a heart void of feeling, 
the laws of honour and good faith may be violated 
with impunity, and there you may safely indulge 
your genius. But the laws of England shall not 
be violated, even by your holy zeal to oppress a 
sinner; and though you have succeeded in 
making him the tool, you shall not make him 
the victim of your ambition. 


JUNIUS. 


LETTER X. 


TO MR. EDWARD WESTON. 


SIR, 21 April, 1769. 


I sap you were an old man without 
the benefit of experience. It seems you are 
also a volunteer with the stipend of twenty 
commissions* ; and at a period when all pro- 


* Under the presumption that the pamphlet alluded to in 
the preceding letter, entitled a “ Vindication of the Duke of 
Grafton,” was written by Mr. Weston, and which was avowedly 

4 defended 


122 LETTERS OF 


spects. are at an end, you are still looking’ 
forward to rewards, which you’ cannot <enjoy.. 


defended by the author, whoever he was, in the Public 
Advertiser, under the signature of a _‘ Volunteer in the Govern- 
ment’s Service,” the following short letter, addressed to that 
gentleman, obviously from the pen of Junius, appeared” in 
the same paper. 


TO THE RIGHT. HON. EDWARD WESTON. 
SIR, April 20, 1769. 


Your age, though oppressed with bodily and mental 
infirmities, which, for the world’s edification, you have 
published to it, demands some respect, or the cause you have 
embarked in, would entitle you to none. The last glimmer-_ 
ings of your expiring taper, however, do your hero no honour ; 
and I fear the principle that has kindled it obtains you no 
credit. You are a privy counsellor in Ireland, writer of the 
Gazette, comptroller of the salt-office, a clerk of the signet, 
and a pensioner on the Irish establishment: such is the 
Volunteer! And you may remember when you were under 
secretary of state, the division of 500/. among the people left 
to your discretion, of which you modestly claimed 400/. for 
yourself. So honest, so upright, and so disinterested is the 
man! . Let Junius be the dirty rascal you call him, I know, 
you know, and the world knows, what vou are. CnrirTo. 

This letter produced a short reply from the Volunteer, 
in which he ‘denies that Mr. Weston is the author of the 
pamphlet, or of the letters under that signature ; and one from 
Poetikastos, who attacks Junius in the following words : 

“ You conclude your despicable vindication of an honour 
which you do not possess, by asserting ‘ that you are a master 
in the art of representing the-treachery of the minister, and . 
the abused simplicity of a ————~’ Villain! of whom? You, 

. who 


JUNIUS. | 123 


No man is better acquainted with the bounty of 
government than you are. 


ton impudence, 


Temeraire vieillard, aura sa recompense. 


But I will not descend~ to an altercation 
either. with the impotence of your age, or the 


who write under the name of Junius, are a base scoun- 
drel. You lie; and you may find out who gives you the lie.” 
These letters occasioned the under written answer :— 


‘TO THE -RIGHT HON, EDWARD WESTON. 


April 27, 17169. 
Tue old fox has been unkennelled, but is ashamed of his 
stinkirig tail. Either several people of intelligence and con- 
sideration have been grossly deceived, or our doughty Volunteer 
declares upon fis honour an untruth. I- cannot believe a 
misinformation, unless the world should have thought that no 
impertinent, expectant, old fellow, could have been found to 
dispatch so lame an errand but you. 

You seem ashamed of your generous distribution : I applaud 
your. modesty ; but it shall not be at the expense of truth. 
You did claim 400/. out of 500/. for your own self; and there. 
are, I suppose, at least half a dozen people who can attest it. 
And you shall find that I dare say something else to your 
mortification, if you suppose the world is not heartily tired of 
you, your petulance, and your crudities. 

I don’t believe the governors of Bedlam indulge their 
patients with news-papers, or I should have sypposed that’ 
Poetikastos had obtained his genteel residence there. The poor 
raving creature bawls aloud for swords and pistols, and requires’ 
the Jast argument instead of the best. The public has pro- 
nounced upon his reason the judgment of Felo de se, from his 
own pen;—TI am so impressed with humanity as to wish the: 
coroner may not have the trouble of passing the same sentence 

upon 


124 LETTERS OF 


peevishness of your diseases. Your pamphlet*, 
ingenious as it is, has been so little read, that 
the public cannot know how far you have a 
right to give me the lie, without the following 
citation of your own words. 

Page 6—‘ 1. That he is persuaded that the 
motives, which he (Mr. Weston) has alledged, 
must appear fully sufficient, with or without the 
opinions of the surgeons. 

‘2. That those very motives MUST HAVE BEEN 
the foundation, on which the Earl of Rochford 
thought proper, &c. | 

‘ 3. That he cannot But REGRET that the 
Earl of Rochford seems to have thought proper 
to lay the chirurgical reports before the King, 
in preference to all the other sufficient motives,’ 
&e. 

Let the public determine whether this be 
defending government on their principles or 
your own. 


upon his person from his sword. I should, however, pity the 
elegant Junius, who well deserves the thanks of the indepen- 
dent public, if he was obliged to take notice of every fool, 
sycophant, and bully. Criro. Epit. 

* It is possible Junius, though his information was generally 
accurate, was incorrect in attributing this pamphlet to Mr. 
Weston. For, in a letter inserted by Mr. Weston in the 
Public Advertiser a few months afterwards, October 14, he 
solemnly denies his having written this and a variety of. 
pamphlets and letters attributed to him. pit. 


JUNIUS. 125 


The style and language you have adopted 
are, I confess, not ill suited to the elegance of 
your own manners, or to the dignity of the 
cause you have undertaken. Every common 
dauber writes rascal and villain under his pic- 
tures, because the pictures themselves have 
neither character nor resemblance. But the 
works of a master require no index. His fea- 
tures and colouring are taken from nature. The 
impression they make is immediate and _ uni- 
form; nor is it possible to mistake his charac- 
ters, whether they represent the treachery of a_ 


minister, or the abused simplicity of a King. 
JUNIUS. 


LETTER XI. 
TO HIS GRACE. THE DUKE OF GRAFTON. 

MY LORD, 24 April, 1769. 
Tue system you seemed to have 

adopted, when Lord Chatham unexpectedly left 
you at the head of affairs, gave us no promise 
of that uncommon exertion of vigour, which 
has since illustrated your character, and dis- 
tinguished your administration. Far from dise. 
covering a spirit bold enough to invade the first 


rights of the people, and the first principles of 
the constitution, you were scrupulous of exer- 


126 LETTERS OF 


eising even those powers, with which the exe- 
cutive branch of the legislature-is legally in- 
vested. We have not yet. forgotten how long 
Mr. Wilkes was suffered to appear at large, nor 
how long he was at liberty to canvass for the 
city* and county, with all the terrors of an 
outlawry hanging over himt. | Our »gracious 


* Prior to his offering himself for the county of Middlesex, 
Wilkes had become a candidate for the metropolis, and it was 
in consequence of his failure in the city, that he pressed for- 
wards to the county. The populace, in both cases, were so 
numerously and so violently attached to him, that many 
serious riots were the consequence—and so outrageous were they 
in* two or three instances, that the court party strenuously 
asserted that the city and even the palace itself were not free 
from danger. Of these riots, the two most serious that 
occurred, were on the meeting of parliament, when the 
populace surrounded the King’s Bench prison from an expec- 
tation of seeing Wilkes, who had then been elected member for 
Middlesex, liberated, in order to take his seat in the senate, 
in the course of which several persons were killed by the 
firing of the military ; and on the counter address to that of 
the city being carried to St. James’s by those who were 
deputed for this purpose; on which last occasion the riot act 
was read at the palace gate, and Lord Talbot, the lord-steward, 
had his staff of office broken in his hand. Epit. 

+ As Junius was extremely severe in his censures on Lord 
Mansfield, it is deemed a mere act of justice to extract a part 
of his lordship’s speech on the reversal of Mr. Wilkes’s out- 
lawry, by which it will appear, such was the temper of the 
times, that the chief justice was even privately. threatened 
upon the occasion, should his decision of the cause be in 
opposition to the popular opinion of. the day. The extract 

3 is 


*JUNIUS. . be2 


Sovereign has not yet forgotten the extraordi- 
nary care you took of his dignity and of the 


is well worthy the reader’s perusal, as a specimen of eloquence 
not often equalled, and rarely excelled ; it forms the conclusion 
of his address. 

“I have now gone through the several errors assigned by 
the defendant, and which have been ingeniously argued, and 
confidently relied on by his counsel at the bar; I have given 
my sentiments upon them, and if upon the whole, after 
the closest attention to what has been said, and with the 
strongest inclination in favour of the defendant, no arguments 
which have been urged, no cases which have been cited, no 
reasons that occur to me, are sufficient to satisfy me in my 
conscience and judgment that this outlawry should bereversed, 
I am bound to affirm it—and here let me make a pause. 

“Many arguments have been suggested, both in and out of 
court, upon the consequences of establishing this outlawry, 
either as they may affect the defendant as an individual, or the 
public in general. As to the first, whatever they may be, the 
defendant has brought them upon himself; they are inevitable 
consequences of law arising from his own act; if the penalty, 
to which he is thereby subjected, is more than a punishment 
adequate to the crimehe has committed, he should not have 
brought himself into this unfortunate predicament, by flying 
from the justice of his country; be thought proper’to do so, 
and he must take the fruits of his own conduct, however bitter 
and unpalatable they may be ; and although we may be heartily 
sorry for any person who has brought himself into this situation, 
it is not in our power, God forbid it should ever be in our 
power, to deliver him from it; we cannot prevent the judg- 
ment of the law by creating irregularity in the proceedings ; 
we cannot prevent the consequences of that judgment by 
pardoning the crime; if the defendant has any pretensions to 
mercy, those pretensions must be urged,’ and’ that power 

exercised 


128 LETTERS OF 


safety of his person, when, at a crisis which 
courtiers affected to call alarming, you left the 


exercised in another place, where the constitution has wisely 
and necessarily vested it: the crown will judge for itself; it 
does not belong to us to interfere with punishment, we have 
only to declare the law; none of us had any concern in the 
prosecution of this business, nor any wishes upon the event of 
it; it was not our fault that the defendant was prosecuted for 
the libels upon which he has been convicted ;- I took no share 
in another place, in the measures which were taken to prosecute 
him for one of them ; it was not our fault that he was con- 
victed ; it was not our fault that he fled; it was not our fault 
that he was outlawed ; it was not our fault that he rendered 
himself up to justice; none of us revived the prosecution 
against him, nor could any one of us stop that prosecution when 
it was revived; it is not our fault if there are not any errors 
upon the record, nor is it in our power to create any if there 
are none ; we are bound by our oath and in our consciences, 
to give such a judgment as the law will warrant, and as our 
reason can prove; such a judgment as we must stand or fall 
by, in the opinion of the present times, and of posterity; in 
doing it, therefore, we must have regard to our reputation 
as honest men, and men of skill and knowledge competent to 
the stations we hold; no considerations whatsoever should 
mislead us from this great object to which we ever ought, 
and I trust, ever shall direct our attention. But consequences 
of a public nature, reasons of state, political ones, have been 
strongly urged, (private anonymous letters sent to me, I shall 
pass over) open avowed publications which have been judicially 
noticed, and may therefore be mentioned, have endeavoured 
to influence or intimidate the court, and so prevail upon us to 
trifle and prevaricate with God, our consciences and the 
public: it has been intimated that consequences of a frightful 
nature will flow from the establishment of this oullawry; it is 

said 


JUNIUS. 129 


metropolis exposed for two nights together, to 
every species of riot and disorder. The security 


said the people expect the reversal, that the temper of the 
times demand it, that the multitude will have it so; that the 
continuation of the outlawry in full force, will not be endured ; 
that the execution of the law upon the defendant will be 
resisted : these are arguments which will not weigh a feather 
with me. If insurrection and rebellion are to follow our 
determination, we have not to answer for the consequences, 
though we should be the innocent cause—we can only say 
Fiat justitia ruat celum ; we shall discharge our duty without 
expectations of approbation, or the apprehensions of censure ; 
if we are subjected to the latter unjustly, we must submit to 


- 


it; we cannot prevent it, we will take care not to deserve it. 
He must be a weak man indeed who can be staggered by such 
a consideration. . 

“The misapprehension, or the misrepresentation of the igno- 
rant or the wicked, the Mendax Infumia, which is the conse- 
quence of both, are equally indifferent to, unworthy the 
attention of, and incapable of making any impression on men 
of firmness and intrepidity-——Those who imagine judges are 
capable of being influenced by such unworthy, indirect means, 
most grossly deceive themselves; and for my own part I trust 
that my temper, and the colour and conduct of my life, have 
clothed me with a suit of armour to shield me from such 
arrows. If I have ever supported the King’s measures; if I 
have ever afforded any assistance to government; if I have 
discharged my duty as a public or private character, by 
endeavouring to preserve pure and perfect the principles of 
the constitution, maintaining, unsullied, the honour of the 
courts of justice, and by an upright administration of, to give 
a due effect to the laws, I have hitherto done it without any 
other gift or reward than that most pleasing and most honour- 
able one, the conscientious conviction of doing what was right. 

VOL. I. K I do 


130 LETTERS OF 


of the royal residence from insult was then 
sufficiently provided for in Mr. Conway’s firm- 


I do not affect to scorn the opinion of mankind; I wish 
earnestly for popularity; I will seek and will have popularity ; 
but I[ will tell you how I will obtain it; I will have that 
popularity which follows, and not that which is run after. It 
is not the applause of a day ; it is not the huzzas of thousands 
that can give a moment’s satisfaction to a rational being; that 
man’s mind must indeed be a weak one, and his ambition of 
a most depraved sort, who can be captivated by such wretched 
allurements, or satisfied with such momentary gratifications. 
I say with the Roman orator, and can say it~ with as much 
truth as he did, ‘ Ego hoc animo semper fui, ut invidiam 
virtute partam, gloriam non infamiam putarem:? But the 
threats have been carried further; personal violence has been 
denounced, unless public humour be complied with; I do not 
fear such threats ; I do not believe there is any reason to fear 
them: it is not the genius of the worst of men in the worst of 
times to proceed to such shocking extremities: but if such an 
event should happen, let it be so; even such an event might 
be productive of wholesome effects ; such a stroke might rouse 
the better part of the nation from their lethargic condition to 
a state of activity, to assert and execute the law, and punish 
the daring and impious hands which had violated it ; and those 
who now supinely behold the danger which threatens all 
liberty, from the most abandoned licentiousness, might, by 
such an event, be awakened to a sense of their situation, as 
drunken men are oftentimes stunned into sobriety. If the 
security of our persons and our property, of all we hold deat 
and valuable, are to depend upon the caprice of a giddy 
multitude, or to be at the disposal of a giddy mob; if, in 
compliance with the humours, and to appease the clamours 
of those, all civil and political institutions are to be disregarded 
or overthrown, a life somewhat more than sixty is not worth 

preserving 


JUNIUS. 131 


ness* and Lord Weymouth’s discretion; while 
the prime minister of Great Britain, in a rural 
retirement, and in the arms of faded beautyt, 
had lost all memory of his Sovereign, his country 
and himself. In these instances you might have 
acted with vigour, for you would have had the 
sanction of the laws to support you. The 
friends of government might have defended you 
without shame, and moderate men, who wish 
well to the peace and good order of society, 
might have had a pretence for applauding your 
conduct. But these it seems were not occasions 
worthy of your Grace’s interposition. You re- 
served the proofs of your intrepid spirit for trials 
of greater hazard and importance; and now, 
as if the most disgraceful relaxation of the execu- 


preserving at such a price, and he can never die too soon, 
who lays down his life in support and vindication of the policy, 
the government and the constitution of his country.”” Eprr. 

* The Hon. Henry Seymour Conway was brother to Lord 
Hertford, and father of the present Mrs. Damer, who consti- 
tutes indeed his only issue. He had enjoyed several places of 
high rank and confidence at court during the beginning of his 
Majesty’s reign, but was stripped of them all by the Duke of 
Grafton, in consequence of having voted in the lower house, in 
opposition to government, upon the question of General 
Warrants. He was a man of an independent mind, but often 
wavering in his opinion, and like his favourite cousin, Horace 
Walpole, much attached to literature and the fine arts. EprT. 

+ The duke of Grafton was, at that time, living with the 
eelebrated Nancy Parsons, afterwards Lady Maynard, eEprr. 

K 2 


132 LETTERS OF 


tive authority had given you a claim of credit 
to indulge in excesses still more dangerous, you 
seem determined to compensate amply for your 
former negligence; and to balance the non-exe- 
cution of the laws with a breach of the constitu- 
tion. From one extreme you suddenly start 
to the other, without leaving, between the 
weakness and the fury of the passions, one 
moment’s interval for the firmness of the under- 
standing. 

These observations, general as they are, 
might easily be extended into a faithful history 
of your Grace’s administration, and perhaps 
may be the employment of a future hour. But 
the business of the present moment will not 
suffer me to look back to a series of events, 
which cease to be interesting or important, be- 
cause they are succeeded by a measure so sin- 
gularly daring, that it excites all our attention, 
and engrosses all our resentment. 

Your patronage of Mr. Luttrell has been 
crowned with success*.. With this precedent 


* Tn the contest for the county of Middlesex, the House 
of Commons, on the 3d of February, 1769, had proceeded to 
the severe step of expelling Mr. Wilkes, for, among other 
offences, republishing, in the St. James’s Chronicle, Lord 
Weymouth’s letter to Mr. Justice Ponton, one of the 
magistrates for Surry, with the ensuing prefatory remarks : 
“ T send you the following authentic state paper, the date of 
which, prior by mere than three weeks to the fatal 10th of 

May, 


JUNIUS. 133 


before you, with the principles on which it was 
established, and with a future House of Com- 
mons, perhaps less virtuous than the present, 
every county in England, under the auspices of 
the treasury, may be represented as completely 
as the county of Middlesex. Posterity will be 


May, 1768, shews how long the horrid massacre in St. George’s 
Fields had been planned and determined upon, before it was 
carried into execution, and how long a hellish project can be 
brooded over by some infernal spirits, without one moment’s 
remorse.” Mr. Wilkes having admitted the publication, the 
house resolved, ‘“‘ That John Wilkes, Esq. a member of this 
house, who hath, at the bar of this house, confessed himself to 
be the author and publisher of what this house has resolved 
to be an insolent, scandalous, and seditious libel; and who 
has been convicted in the court of King’s Bench, of having 
printed and published a seditious libel, and three obscene and 
impious libels; and, by the judgment of the said court, has been 
sentenced to undergo twenty-two months imprisonment, and is 
now in execution under the said judgment, be expelled this 
house,” which was carried in the affirmative by 219 against 
137. On the 16th of February, 1769, he was a second time 
returned for Middlesex without opposition. On the day 
following the election was vacated, and he was declared by a 
majority of the house, incapable of being elected into that 
parliament. Notwithstanding this resolution of the house, he 
was a third time, March 10, elected without opposition; for 
Dingley, as before observed, had not been able to obtain even 
a nomination. This election, however, was also declared void 
the next day. The great mass of Middlesex freeholders, was 
in consequence thrown into a more violent commotion than 
ever, and insisted upon their right to return whomsoever they 
pleased, let parliament expel him as often as it pleased. Wilkes 
was a third time expelled : and to oppose him with a certainty 

of 


134 LETTERS OF 


indebted to your Grace for not contenting 
yourself with a temporary expedient, but entail- 
ing upon them the immediate blessings of your 
administration. Boroughs were already too 
much at the mercy of government. Counties 
could neither be purchased nor intimidated. 
But their solemn determined election may be 


of success, another device was now contrived, and under the 
promise that he should certainly be seated for the county in 
opposition to Wilkes, Col. Luttrell was prevailed upon to 
relinquish the seat he then held, and to oppose him with all 
the force that could be mustered up on the occasion. With 
every possible effort exerted in his favour, however, Luttrell 
was incapable of obtaining more than two hundred and ninety- 
six votes, and Wilkes was again returned a/most unanimously. 
The ministry were intimidated: but still resolved to carry their 
new device into effect. Wilkes was not now, therefore, to be 
openly re-expelled, but, which amounted to the same thing, 
to be declared incapable of sitting in parliament in consequence 
of his previous expulsion, and Luttrell was of course declared 
the sitting member. Yet, with an incongruity not often to be 
parallelled, the sheriffs, instead of being punished, were ad- 
mitted to have done their duty, in allowing Wilkes to have 
become a candidate, and in returning him as fairly elected. 

The nation at large now joined in the cause of the Middle- 
sex freeholders; the parliament from exercising the unconsti- 
tutional act of rejecting one person who was a real member of 
its body, without an adequate cause, and in admitting another 
person to be a member who had never been returned by a 
majority of yotes, was declared to have passed into a state of 
political incapacity, every vote and act of which must necessarily 
be incompetent and illegislative, and the throne was thronged 
with petitions and remonstrances from every part of the king- 
dom, beseeching his Majesty to dissolve it. Eprr. 


JUNIUS, 135 


rejected, and the man they detest may be ap- 
pointed, by another choice, to represent them 
in parliament. Yet it is admitted, that the 
sheriffs obeyed the laws and performed their 
duty*. The return they made must have been 
legal and valid, or undoubtedly they would 
have been censured for making it. With every 
good-natured allowance for your Grace’s youth 
and inexperience, there are some things which 
you cannot but know. You cannot but know 
that the right of the freeholders, to adhere to 
their choice. (even supposing it improperly 
exerted) was as clear and indisputable as that 
of the House of Commons to exclude one of 
their own members:—nor is it possible for you 
not to see the wide distance there is between 
the negative power of rejecting one man, and 
the positive power of appointing another. The 
right of expulsion, in the most favourable sense, 
is no more than the custom of parliament. The 
right of election is the very essence of the con- 
stitution, To violate that right, and much 
more to transfer it to any other set of men, is 
a step leading immediately to the dissolution of 
all government. So far forth as it operates, it 
constitutes a House of Commons, which does not 


* Sir Fletcher Norton, when it was proposed to punish the 
sheriffs, declared in the House of Commons that they, in return- 
ing Mr. Wilkes, had done no more than their duty. 


136 LETTERS OF 


represent the people. A House of Commons 
so formed would involve a contradiction and the 
grossest confusion of ideas; but there are some 
ministers, my Lord, whose views can only be 
answered by reconciling absurdities, and making 
the same proposition, which is false and absurd 
in argument, true in fact. 

_ This measure, my Lord, is however attended 
with one consequence, favourable to the people, 
which I am persuaded you did not foresee*. 
While the contest lay between the ministry and 
Mr. Wilkes, his situation and private character 
gave you advantages over him, which common 
candour, if not the memory of your former 
friendship, should have forbidden you to make 
use of. To religious men, you had an opportu- 
nity of exaggerating the irregularities of his 
past life ;—to moderate men you held forth the 
pernicious consequences of faction. Men, who 
with this character, looked no farther than to 
the object before them, were not dissatisfied at 
seeing Mr. Wilkes excluded from parliament. 
You have now taken care to shift the question ; 
or, rather, you have created a new one, in 
which Mr. Wilkes is no more concerned than 
any other English gentleman. You have united 
this country against you on one grand constitu- 


* The reader is desired to mark this prophecy. 


JUNIUS. 137 


tional point, on the decision of which our ex- 
istence as a free people, absolutely depends. 
You have asserted, not in words but in fact, 
that representation in parliament does not de- 
pend upon the choice of the freeholders. If 
such a case can possibly happen once, it may 
happen frequently ; it may happen always—and 
if three hundred votes by any mode of reason- 
ing whatsoever, can prevail against twelve hun- 
dred, the same reasoning would equally have 
given Mr. Luttrell his seat with ten votes, or 
even with one. The consequences of this attack 
upon the constitution are too plain and palpable 
not to alarm the dullest apprehension. I trust. 
you will find, that the people of England are 
neither deficient in spirit nor understanding, 
though you have treated them, as if they had 
neither sense to feel, nor spirit to resent. We 
have reason to thank God and our ancestors, 
that there never yet was a minister in this couns 
try, who could stand the issue of such a con- 
flict; and with every prejudice in favour of 
your intentions, I see no such abilities in your 
Grace, as should entitle you to succeed in an 
enterprize, in which the ablest and basest of 
your predecessors have found their destruction. 
You may continue to deceive your gracious 
master with false representations of the temper 
and condition of his subjects. You may com- 


138 LETTERS: OF 


mand a venal vote, because it is the common 
established appendage of your office. But never 
hope that the freeholders will make a tame sur- 
render of their rights, or that an English army 
will join with you in overturning the liberties 
of their country. They know that their first 
duty, as citizens, is paramount to all subsequent 
engagements, nor will they prefer the discipline, 
nor even the honours of their profession, to 
those sacred original rights, which belonged to 
them before they were soldiers, and which they 
claim and possess as the birthright of English- 
men. 

Return, my Lord, before it be too late, to 
that easy insipid system, which you first set out 
with. ‘Take back your mistress* ;—the name 
of friend may be fatal to her, for it leads to 
treachery and persecution. Indulge the people. 
Attend Newmarket. Mr. Luttrell may again 
vacate his seat; and Mr. Wilkes, if not per- 
secuted, will soon be forgotten. To be weak 
and inactive is safer than to be daring and cri- 
minal; and wide is the distance between a riot 
of the populace and a convulsion of the whole 


* The Duke, about this time, had separated himself from 
Ann Parsons, but proposed to continue united with her, .on 
some platonic terms of friendship, which she rejected with 


contempt. His baseness to this woman is beyond description 
or belief, oot 


JUNIUS. 139 


kingdom. You may live to make the experi- 
ment, but no honest man can wish you should 


survive it. 
JUNIUS, 


LETTER XII. 
TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF GRAFTON. 


MY LORD, 30 May, 1769. 


Ir the measures in which you have 
been most successful, had been supported by 
any tolerable appearance of argument, I should 
have thought my time not ill employed, in con- 
tinuing to examine your conduct as a minister, 
and stating it fairly to the public. But when I 
see questions, of the highest national import- 
ance, carried as they have been, and the first 
principles of the constitution openly violated, 
without argument or decency, I confess, I give 
up the cause in despair. The meanest of your 
predecessors had abilities sufficient to give a 
colour to their measures. If they invaded the 
rights of the people, they did not dare to offer 
a direct insult to their understanding ; and, in 
former times, the most venal parliaments made 
it a condition, in their bargain with the minister, 
that he should furnish them with some plausible 
pretences for selling their country and them- 

7 


140 LETTERS OF 


selves. You have had the merit of introducing 
a more compendious system of government and 
logic. You neither address yourself to the pas- 
sions, nor to the understanding, but simply to 
the touch. You apply yourself immediately to 
the feelings of your friends, who, contrary to 
the forms of parliament, never enter heartily 
into a debate, until they have divided. 
Relinquishing, therefore, all idle views of 
amendment to your Grace, or of benefit to the 
public, let me be permitted to consider your 
character and conduct merely as a subject of 
curious speculation.—There is something in 
both, which distinguishes you not only from 
all other ministers, but all other men. It is not 
that you do wrong by design, but that you 
should never do right by mistake. It is not that 
your indolence and your activity have been 
equally misapplied, but that the first uniform 
principle, or, if I may call it the genius of your 
life, should have carried you through every pos- 
sible change and contradiction of conduct, with- 
out the momentary imputation or colour of a 
virtue ; and that the wildest spirit of inconsis- 
tency should never once have betrayed you into 
a wise or honourable action. This, I own, gives 
an air of singularity to your fortune, as well as 
to your disposition. Let us look back together 
to a scene, in which a mind like yours will find 


JUNIUS. 141 


nothing to repent of. Let us try, my Lord, how 
well you have supported the various relations in 
which you stood, to your Sovereign, your coun- 
try, your friends, and yourself. Give us, if it 
be possible, some excuse to posterity, and to 
ourselves, for submitting to your administration. 
If not the abilities of a great minister, if not 
the integrity of a patriot, or the fidelity of a 
friend, shew us, at least the firmness of a man.— 
For the sake of your mistress, the lover shall be 
spared. I will not lead her into public, as you 
have done, nor will I insult the memory of de- 
parted beauty. Her sex, which alone made her 
amiable in your eyes, makes her respectable in 
mine. 

The character of the reputed ancestors of 
some men, has made it possible for their de- 
scendants to be vicious in the extreme, without 
being degenerate. Those of your Grace, for 
instance, left no distressing examples of virtue, 
even to their legitimate posterity, and you may 
look back with pleasure to an illustrious pedi- 
gree, in which heraldry has not left a single 
good quality upon record to insult or upbraid 
you*. You have better proofs of your descent, 


* The first Duke of Grafton was a natural son of Charles IT. 
During the progress of the revolution he abandoned the Stuarts 
for King William ; and his descendants had hitherto generally 
ranked themselves among the party of the Whigs.  Eprr. 


142 LETTERS OF 


my Lord, than the register of a marriage, or 
any troublesome inheritance of reputation. 
There are some hereditary strokes of character, 
by which a family may be as clearly distinguish- 
edas by the blackest features of the human face. 
Charles the first lived and died a hypocrite. 
Charles the second was a hypocrite of another 
sort, and should have died upon the same scaf: 
fold. At the distance of a century, we see 
their different characters happily revived, and 
blended in your Grace. Sullen and severe with- 
out religion, profligate without gaiety, you 
live lise Charles the second, without being an 
amiable companion, and, for aught I know, may 
die as his father did, without the reputation of 
a martyr. 

You had already taken your degrees with 
credit in those schools, in which the English 
nobility are formed to virtue, when you were 
introduced to Lord Chatham’s protection*. 
From Newmarket, White’s, and the Opposition, 
he gave you to the world with an air of popu- 
larity, which young men usually set out with, 
and seldom preserve :—grave and _ plausible 
enough to be thought fit for business; too young 
for treachery; and, in short, a patriot of no un- 
promising expectations. Lord Chatham was the 


* To understand these passages, the reader is referred to a 
noted pamphlet, called the History of the Minority. 


JUNIUS. 143 


earliest object of your political wonder and at- 
tachment*; yet you deserted him, upon the first 
hopes that offered of an equal share of power 
with Lord Rockingham. When the Duke of 
Cumberland’s first negociation failed, and when 
the favourite was pushed to the last extremity, 
you saved him, by joining with an administra- 
tion, in which Lord Chatham had refused to en- 
gage. Still, however, he was your friend, and 


* The Duke of Grafton was first introduced into the political 
world at an early period of life, under the auspices and pro- 
tection of Lord Chatham (then Mr. Pitt) as a determined 
Whig. To the administration of Lord Egremont and the 
Earl of Granville succeeded that of the Duke of Bedford, who 
soon became obnoxious to Lord Bute, the guardian of his 
Majesty’s non-age, and still his confidential adviser. The 
Duke of Cumberland was deputed to propose another admini- 
stration conjointly to Mr. Pitt, Lord Temple, and Lord Lyttle- 
ton. They all objected, however, to the undue influence of 
the noble favourite, and the duke’s proposal was declined. 
The Marquis of Rockingham was now applied to, aud pre- 
vailed upon to take the lead, and form an administration of 
his own: Mr. Pitt refused to unite in it, but the Duke of 
Grafton deserted him, and accepted the office of secretary of 
state. With this administration, however, he soon became 
chagrined and resigned his office. Lord Chatham again re- 
ceived him into communion ; and in the ministry, shortly after 
planned and carried into effect by himself, in which he held 
the privy seal, he nominated the Duke of Grafton first lord of 
the treasury. At the head of this new system, however, Lord 
Chatham did not long continue—he withdrew in disgust ; but 
the noble duke, instead of following him, took the lead upon 
himself, and commenced an administration of his own, Eprr. 


144 LETTERS OF 


you are yet to explain to the world, why you 
consented to act without him, or why, after 
uniting with Lord Rockingham, you deserted 
and betrayed him. You complained that: no 
measures were taken to satisfy your patron, and 
that your friend, Mr. Wilkes, who had suffered 
so much for the party, had been abandoned to 
his fate. They have since contributed, not a 
little, to your present plenitude of power ; yet, 
I think, Lord Chatham has less reason than ever 
to be satisfied ; and as for Mr. Wilkes, it is, 
perhaps, the greatest misfortune of his life, that 
you should have so many compensations to make 
in the closet for your former friendship with him. 
Your gracious master understands your charac- 
ter, and makes you a persecutor, because you 
have been a friend. 

Lord Chatham formed his last administration 
upon principles which you certainly concurred 
in, or you could never have been placed at the 
head of the treasury. By deserting those prin- 
ciples, and by acting in direct contradiction to 
them, in which he found you were secretly sup- 
ported in the closet, you soon forced him to leave 
you to yourself, and to withdraw his name from 
an administration, which had been formed on 
the credit of it. You had then a prospect of 
friendships better suited to your genius, and 
more likely:to fix your disposition. Marriage 
6 


JUNIUS. 145 


is the point on which every rake is stationary 
at last; and truly, my Lord, you may well be 
weary of the circuit you have taken, for you 
have now fairly travelled through every sign in 
the political zodiac, from the Scorpion, in which 
you stung Lord Chatham, to the hopes of a 
Virgin* in the house of Bloomsbury. One would 
think that you had had sufficient experience of 
the frailty of nuptial engagements, or, at least, 
that such’a friendship as the Duke of Bedford’s, 
might have been secured to you by the auspici- 
ous marriage of your late Duchess with t+ his 
nephew. But ties of this tender nature cannot 
be drawn too close; and it may possibly be a 
part of the Duke of Bedford’s ambition, after 
making her an honest woman, to work a miracle 
of the same sort upon your Grace. ‘This worthy 
nobleman has long dealt in virtue. There has 
been a large consumption of it in his own fa- 
mily ; and, in the way of traffick, I dare say, he 
has bought and sold more than half the repre- 
sentative integrity of the nation. 

In a political -view, this union is not impru- 
dent. The favour of princes is a perishable com- 
modity. You have now a strength sufficient to 


* His Grace had lately married Miss Wrottesley, niece of 
the Good Gertrude, Duchess of Bedford. 

+ Miss Liddel, after her divorce from the Duke, married 
Lord Upper Ossory. 

VOL, I. L 


146 LETTERS OF 


command the closet; and, if it be necessary to 
betray one friendship more, you may set even 
Lord Bute at defiance. Mr. Stuart Mackenzie 
may possibly remember what use the Duke of 
Bedford usually makes of his power* ; and our 
gracious Sovereign, I doubt not, rejoices at this 
first appearance of union among his servants. 
His late Majesty, under the happy influence of 
a family connexion between his ministers, was 
relieved from the cares of government. A 
more active prince may perhaps observe, with 
suspicion, by what degrees an artful servant 
grows upon his master, from the first unlimited 
professions of duty and attachment, to the pain- 
ful representation of the necessity of the royal 
service, and soon, in regular progression, to 
the humble insolence of dictating in all the ob- 
sequious forms of peremptory submission. The 
interval is carefully employed in forming con- 
nexions, creating interests, collecting a party, 
and laying the foundation of double marriagest; 


* Mr. Stuart Mackenzie was brother to the earl of Bute. The 
Duke of Bedford’s abuse of power here referred to, is again no- 
ticed in Junrus, Letter xxxvi. and consisted in compelling Iris 
Majesty to displace Mr. Mackenzie from the office of Lord 
Privy Seal of Scotland, shortly after his appointment, in fayour 
of Lord Frederick Campbell. In this act of coercion Mr. Gren- 
ville bore an equal part with the noble duke. Upon the re- 
signation of these ministers, Mr. Stuart Mackenzie was rein- 
stated in his former post. EpIT- a: 

+ See notes in the preceding page. Epi. 


JUNIUS. 147 


until the deluded prince, who thought he had 
found a creature prostituted to his service, and 
insignificant enough to be always’ dependent 
upon his pleasure, finds him at last too strong 
to be commanded, and too formidable to be re- 
moved. 

Your Grace’s public conduct, as a minister, 
is but the counterpart of your private history; 
—the same inconsistency, the same contradic- 
tions. In America we trace you, from the first 
opposition to the Stamp Act*, on principles of 


* At the period here referred to, the American colonies had 
acquired such a population, and proportion of public wealth, 
as to render it necessary to enquire, more critically than had 
hitherto been done into the peculiar mode of its political con- 
nexion with the mother country, and to bind it to the latter 
in a more definite bond. It was found that most of the pro- 
vincial departments were chartered by the crown and expressly 
exempted from legislative taxation, but that others were not 
chartered in any way, and of course possessed no such privi- 
lege. From the capacity of their being now able to contribute 
to the exigencies of the state, from a desire to equalize the 
entire colonization, and from a professed belief that charters 
granted by the crown with such an exemption as above, dis- 
played an undue stretch of the prerogative, it was determined 
upon, by Mr. Grenville’s administration, to bring the matter 
boldly to an issue, and for the legislature to claim an authority 
over the colonies by passing an act which should immediately 
affect them. The statute enacted for this purpose was the Stamp 
Act, which imposed a duty upon many of the articles most 
current through the colonies. The colonies were thrown 
into a general commotion by this measure, the duty could not 

Eee he 


148 LETTERS OF 


convenience, to Mr. Pitt’s surrender of the right; 
then forward to Lord Rockingham’s surrender 
of the fact; then back again to Lord Rocking- 
ham’s declaration of the right; then forward to 
taxation with Mr. Townshend ; and in the last 
instance, from the gentle Conway’s undeter- 
mined discretion, to blood and compulsion with 
the Duke of Bedford*: Yet if we may believe 


be collected, and almost every province became ripe for re- 
bellion. 

At home the members of opposition doubted, or affected to 
doubt, both the propriety and legality of the conduct of admi- 
nistration. Mr. Pitt denied the right, the Marquis of Rock- 
ingham admitted the right, but denied the expediency; while 
many politicians perplexed by the sophistry advanced by the 
pleaders on all sides, vacillated in their opinion, and sometimes 
united with one party and sometimes with another. Of this last 
description was the Duke of Grafton, who occasionally favoured 
Mr. Pitt’s opinion, occasionally the Marquis of Rockingham’s, 
and at last sided with Mr. Charles Townshend in a determined 
resolution to carry the system of taxation into effect at all ha- 
zards. EDIT. 

* Mr. Knox, in his “ Extra official State Papers,” from which 
extracts have been made in notes to Miscellaneous Letters, Nos. 
xxx1. and Liu. narrates the following anecdote as having hap- 
pened to himself on the repeal of the Stamp Act. 

“The morning after the resolution passed in the House of 
Commons, to repeal the Stamp Act, and to bring in the decla- 
ratory bill, I was sent for to a meeting of the Opposition at Mr. 
Rigby’s in Parliament Street; when I came there, Mr. Gren- 
ville and Mr. Rigby came out to me and told me, the Duke of 
Bedford and several others desired to know my opinion of the 
effects which those resolutions would produce in America. My 

2 answer 


JUNIUS. 149 


the simplicity of Lord North’s eloquence, at the 
opening of next sessions you are once more to 
be the patron of America. Is this the wisdom 
of a great minister? or is it the ominous vibra- 
tion of a pendulum? Had you no opinion of 
your own, my Lord? or was it the gratification 
of betraying every party with which you have 
been united, and of deserting every political 
principle, in which you had concurred? 

Your enemies may turn their eyes without re- 
gret from this admirable system of provincial 
government. They will find gratification enough 
in the survey of your domestic and foreign po- 
licy; 

If, instead of disowning Lord Shelburne, the 
British court had interposed with dignity and 
firmness, you know, my Lord, that Corsica would 
never have been invaded *. ‘The French saw 
the weakness of a distracted ministry, and were 


answer was in few words—addresses of thanks and measures of 
rebellion. Mr. Grenville smiled and shook his head, and Mr. 
Rigby swore by G—d he thought so, and both wished me a 
good morning.” EDIT. 

* Lord Shelburne, father to the present. Marquis of Lans+ 
down, while secretary of state, instructed our ambassador at the 
court of Versailles to remonstrate, in very spirited terms, on 
the intended invasion of Corsica by the French. His Lordship’s 
conduct, however, was disavowed by his colleagues, and he re- 
signed his situation, Oct. 21, 1768, But sce note to Letter 
iI. p. 72. 


150 LETTERS OF 


justified in treating you with contempt. They 
would probably have yielded in the first instance, 
rather than hazard a rupture with this country ; 
but, being once engaged, they cannot retreat 
without dishonour. Common sense foresees con- 
sequences, which have escaped your Grace’s 
penetration. ither we suffer the French to 
make an acquisition, the importance of which 
you have probably no conception of, or we op- 
pose them by an underhand management, which 
only disgraces us in the eyes of Europe, without 
answering any purpose of policy or prudence, 

rom secret, indirect assistance, a transition to 
some more open decisive measures becomes un- 
avoidable ; till at last we find ourselves principals 
in the war, and are obliged to hazard every thing 
for an object, which might have originally been 
obtained without expense or danger. I am not 
versed in the politics of the north; but this I 
believe is certain, that half the money you have 
distributed to carry the expulsion of Mr. Wilkes, 
or even your secretary’s share in the last sub- 
scription, would have kept the Turks at your 
devotion*. Was it economy, my Lord? or did 


* The Ottoman Porte was at this time in the hands of French 
influence; the court of Tuilleries supplying it with French offi- 
cers, and instructing it, through their meaus, in modern tactics, 
so as to enable it tosupport more successfully the war in which 
it was engaged with Russia. The growing extent of French 

influence 


JUNIUS: 151 


the coy resistance you have constantly met with 
in the British senate, make you despair of cor- 
rupting the Divan? Your friends indeed have 
the first claim upon your bounty, but if five 
hundred pounds a year can be spared in pension 
to Sir John Moore *, it would not have disgraced 
you to have allowed something to the secret ser- 
vice of the public. 

You will say perhaps that the situation of af- 
fairs at home demanded and engrossed the whole 
of your attention. Here, I confess, you have 
been active. An amiable, accomplished Prince 
ascends the throne under the happiest of all 
auspices, the acclamations and united affections 
of his subjects. The first measures of his reign, 
and even the odium of a favourite, were not 
able to shake their attachment. Your services, 
my Lord, have been more successful. Since._ 
you were permitted to take the lead, we have 
seen the natural effects of a system of govern- 
ment, at once both odious and contemptible. 
We have seen the laws sometimes scandalously. 
relaxed, sometimes violently stretched beyond 


influence over the continent, might in this instance perhaps 
have easily been curtailed by a little address, and even trans- 
ferred to the court of St. James’s. Epir. 

* Sir John Moore was an old Newmarket acquaintance of 
his Grace’s, where he succeeded in completely squandering 
away his private fortune. The Duke of Grafton, out of com- 
passion, obtained for him the pension in question, EbIr. 


152 LETTERS OF 


their tone. We have seen the sacred person of the 
Sovereign insulted ; and in profound peace, and 
with an undisputed title, the fidelity of his sub- 
jects brought by his own servants into public 
question*. Without abilities, resolution, or in- 
terest, you have done more than Lord Bute 
could accomplish with all Scotland at his heels. 
Your Grace, little anxious perhaps either for 
present or future reputation, will not desire to 
be handed down in these colours to posterity. 
You have reason to flatter yourself that the me- 
mory of your administration will survive even 
the forms of a constitution, which our ancestors 
vainly hoped would be immortal ; and as for your 
personal character, I will not, for the honour of 
human nature, suppose that you can wish to 
have it remembered. ‘The condition of the pre- 
sent times is desperate indeed; but there is a 
debt due to those who come after us, and it is 
the historian’s office to punish, though he cannot 
correct. Ido not give you to posterity as a 
pattern to imitate, but as an example to deter; 
and as your conduct comprehends every thing 
that a wise or honest minister should avoid, I 


* The wise Duke, about this time, exerted all the influence 
of government to procure addresses to satisfy the King of the 
fidelity of his subjects. They came in very thick from Scot- 
land ; but, after the appearance of this letter, we heard ne 
more of them, 


JUNIUS. 133 


mean to make you a negative instruction to your 
successors for ever. 
JUNIUS. 


LETTER XIII. 
TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 12 June, 1769. 


Tue Duke of Grafton’s friends, not 
finding it convenient to enter into a contest with 
JuNius, are now reduced to the last melancholy 
resource of defeated argument, the flat general 
charge. of scurrility and falsehood. As for his 
stile, I shall leave it to the critics. The truth of 
his facts is of more importance to the public. 
They are of such a nature, that I think a bare 
contradiction will have no weight with any man, 
who judges for himself. Let us take them in 
the order in which they appear in his last 
letter. 

1. Have not the first rights of the people, and 
the first principles of the constitution been openly 
invaded, and the very name of an election made 
ridiculous by the arbitrary appointment of Mr. 
Luttrell ? 

2. Did not the Duke of Grafton frequently 
lead his mistress into public, and even place her 
at the head of his table, as if he had pulled down 


154 LETTERS OF 


an ancient * temple of Venus, and could bury all 
decency and shame under the ruins ?—Is this the 
man who dares to talk of Mr. Wilkes’s morals? 

3. Is not the character of his presumptive 
ancestors as strongly marked in him, as if he had 
descended from them in a direct legitimate line? 
The idea of his death is only prophetic; and what 
is prophecy but a narrative preceding the fact? 

4. Was not Lord Chatham the first who rais- 
ed him to the rank and post of a minister, and 
the first whom he abandoned ? 

5. Didhe not join with Lord Rockingham, 
and betray him? 

6. Was he not the bosom friend of Mr. Wilkes; 
whom he now pursues to destruction ? 

7. Did he not take his degrees with credit at 
Newmarket, White’s, and the Opposition ? 

8. After deserting Lord Chatham’s principles, 
and sacrificing his friendship, is he not now close- 
ly united with a set of men, who, though they 
have occasionally joined with all parties, have in 
every different situation, and at all times, been 
equally and constantly detested by this country ? 

9. Has not Sir John Moore a pension of five 
hundred pounds a year?—This may probably 
be an acquittance of favours upon the turf; but 


* Miss Parsons had at this time surpassed the prime both of 
her youth and beauty. 

See this anecdote related more in detail in Miscellaneoua 
Letters, No. xx. EDIT. 


JUNIUS. 135 


is it possible for a minister to offer a grosser out- 
rage to a nation, which has so very lately cleared 
away the beggary of the civil list, at the expense 
of more than half a million? 

10. Is there any one mode of thinking or 
acting with respect to America, which the Duke 
of Grafton has not successively adopted and ° 
abandoned ? 

/11. Is there not a singular mark of shame 
set upon this man, who has so little delicacy and 
feeling as to submit to the opprobrium of marry- 
ing a near relation of one who had debauched 
his wife?—In the name of decency, how are 
these amiable cousins to meet at their uncle’s 
table ?—It will be a scene in C&dipus, without 
the distress.—Is it wealth, or wit, or beauty,— 
or is the amorous youth in love? 

The rest is notorious. That Corsica has been 
sacrificed to the French : that in some instances 
the laws have been scandalously relaxed, and in 
others daringly violated; and that the King’s 
subjects have been called upon to assure him of 
their fidelity, in spite of the measures of his ser. 
vants. 

A writer, who builds his arguments upon. 
facts such as these, is not easily to be confuted. 
He is not to be answered by general assertions, 
or general reproaches. He may want eloquence 
to amuse or persuade, but, speaking truth, he 


must always convince. 
PHILO JUNIUS. 


156 LETTERS OF 


LETTER XIV. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 22 June, 1769. 


Tuer name of Old Noll is destined to 
be the ruin of the house of Stuart. ‘There is an 
ominous fatality in it, which even the spurious 
descendants of the family cannot escape. Oliver 
Cromwell had the merit of conducting Charles 
the first to the block. Your correspondent OxLp 
Not1*, appears to have the same design upon the 
Duke of Grafton. His arguments consist better 
with the title he has assumed, than with the 
principles he professes; for though he pretends 
to be an advocate for the Duke, he takes care 
to give us the best reasons, why his patron should 
regularly follow the fate of his presumptive an- 
cestor.— Through the whole course of the Duke 
of Grafton’s life, I see a strange endeavour to 


* A correspondent under this signature replied to the pre~ 
ceding letter of Puito Junius, in the Public Advertiser, dated 
June 19; intreducing his observations with the following pa- 
ragraph. ; 

“ Though Puito Junius is, in every sense, unworthy of an 
answer as a writer; yet as he has compressed into small com- 
pass what he calls the facts advanced by Junius, I will answer 
them briefly one by one, and for ever drop a subject that could — 
only acquire consequence by discussing it in a serious manner.” 

EDIT. 


JUNIUS. 157 


unite contradictions, which cannot be reconciled. 
He marries to be divorced ;—he keeps a mistress 
to remind him of conjugal endearments, and he 
chooses such friends, as it is a virtue in him to 
desert. Ifit were possible for the genius of that 
accomplished president, who pronounced sen- 
tence upon Charles the first, to be revived in 
some modern sycophant*, his Grace, I doubt not, 
would by sympathy discover him among the 
dregs of mankind, and take him for a guide in 
those paths, which naturally conduct the mi- 
nister to the scaffold. 


* It is hardly necessary to remind the reader of the name of 
Bradshaw. AavTHoR. : 

And as little so that Old Noll was the nick name of Oliver 
Cromwell. There is a peculiar severity in the comparison of 
the two periods and the two families. The Duke of Grafton 
was descended from the Stuarts ; and Bradshaw was the name 
of the president of the regicide court, which, under the secret 
influence of Oliver Cromwell, (or Old Noll) condemned Charles 
the first to death. Bradshaw was the name of the Duke of 
Grafton’s private secretary at the present moment, and Junius 
here insinuates that he was also the author of the letter signed 
Old Noll, which had a chance of proving as fatal to his Grace’s 
cause, as ever the names of Bradshaw or Old Noll had proved 
fatal to his Grace’s ancestor. 

Bradshaw, before his present appointment, had been an 
under-clerk in the war-office, and was raised to the rank of 
private secretary, for his activity and dispatch of business. In 
the month of May, 1772, he was appointed a lord of the admi- 
ralty. 4 

Fora further account, see Letter xxxvi, note. EDIT, 


158 LETTERS OF 


The assertion that two thirds of the nation 
approve of the acceptance of Mr. Luttrell (for 
even Old Noil is too modest to call it an elec- 
tion) can neither be maintained nor confuted 
by argument. It is a point of fact, on which 
every English gentleman will determine for 
himself. As to lawyers, their profession is sup- 
ported by the indiscriminate defence of right 
and wrong, and I confess I have not that opinion 
of their knowledge or integrity, to think it ne- 
cessary that they should decide for me upon a 
plain constitutional question. With respect to 
the appointment of Mr. Luttrell, the chancellor 
has never yet given any authentic opinion*. 
Sir Fletcher Norton t is indeed an honest, a 
very honest man; and the Attorney General t 
is ex officio the guardian of liberty, to take care, 
I presume, that it shall never break out into a 
criminal excess. Doctor Blackstone is solicitor 
to the Queen. The Doctor recollected that he 
had a place to preserve, though he forgot that 
he had a reputation to lose. We have now the 
good fortune to understand the Doctor’s princi- 
ples, as well as writings. For the defence of 
truth, of law, and reason, the Doctor’s book may 


* Lord Camden. EIT. 

+ At this time Chief Justice in Eyre, and just appointed a 
privy counsellor, with a salary of 30001. eprr. 

t Mr. De Grey, afterwards Lord Walsingham.  Epit. 


JUNIUS. 159 


be safely consulted; but whoever wishes to 
cheat a neighbour of his estate*, or to rob a 
country of its rightst, need make no scruple of 
consulting the Doctor himself: 

The example of the English nobility may, for 
aught I know, sufficiently justify the Duke of 
Grafton, when he indulges his genius in all the 
fashionable excesses of the age ; yet, considering 
his rank and station, I think it would do him 
more honour to be able to deny the fact, than to 
defend it by such authority. But if vice itself 
could be excused, there is yet a certain display 
of it, a certain outrage to decency, and violation 
of public decorum, which, for the benefit of soci- 
ety, should never be forgiven. It is not that he 
kept a mistress at home, but that he constantly 
attended her abroad.—It is not the private in- 
dulgence, but the public insult of which I com- 
plain. The name of Miss Parsons would hardly 
have been known, if the first lord of the trea- 
sury had not led her in triumph through the 
Opera House, even in the presence of the 


* Doctor Blackstone had been, unfortunately for himself, an 
adviser of Sir James Lowther against the Duke of Portland, in 
the dispute concerning the Cumberland crown lands, upon the 
obsolete law of nullum tempus. See Letter vit. BDIT. 

+ Doctor Blackstone had also supported government in its 
rejection of Mr. Wilkes, as member for the county of Middle- 
sex. See Letters of Junius, No. xvut. as also Miscellaneous 
Letters, No. rvi, subscribed Simplex. birt. 


160 LETTERS OF 


Queen*. When we seea man act in this man- 
ner, we may admit the shameless depravity of 
his heart, but what are we to think of' his under- 
standing ? . 

His Grace, it seems, is now to be a regular 
domestic man, and as an omen of the future 
delicacy and correctness of his conduct, he mar- 
ries a first cousin of the man, who had fixed that 
mark and title of infamy upon him, which, at 
the same moment, makes a husband unhappy 
and ridiculous. ‘The ties of consanguinity may 
possibly preserve him from the same fate a se- 
cond time, and as to the distress of meeting, I 
take for granted the venerable uncle of these 
common cousins has settled the etiquette im 
such a manner, that, if a mistake should happen, 
it may reach no farther than from Madame ma 
Jemme to Madame ma cousine. 

The Duke of Grafton has always some excel- 
lent reason for deserting his friends.—The age 
and incapacity of Lord Chathamt;—the debility 
of Lord Rockingham ;—or the infamy of Mr. 
Wilkes. There was a time indeed when he did 
not appear to be quite so well acquainted, or so. 


* See this transaction more fully detailed in Miscellaneous 
Letters, No. xx. EDIT. 

+ Lord Chatham, it is well known, laboured under a prema- 
ture decrepitude of body, from frequent and violent attacks of 
the gout; but his mind was neyer affected by such paroxysms, 
EDIT. 


JUNIUS. 16} 


violently offended with the infirmities of his 
friends. But now I confess they are not ill ex- 
changed for the youthful, vigorous virtue of the 
Duke of Bedford ;—the firmness of General 
Conway* ;—the blunt, or if I may call it, the 
aukward integrity of Mr. Rigbyt, and the spot- 
less morality of Lord Sandwich#. 

If a large pension to a broken gambler || be 
an act worthy of commendation, the Duke of 
Grafton’s connexions will furnish him with 
many opportunities of doing: praiseworthy ac- 
tions; and as he himself bears no part of the 
expense, the generosity of distributing the pub- 
lic money for the support of virtuous families in 
distress will be an unquestionable proof of his 


Grace’s humanity. 


* See his character in Letter x1. note. EpitT. 

+ Mr. Rigby was introduced into political life by the Duke 
of Bedford, to whom he had chiefly recommended himself by 
his convivial talents. He at length attained the lucrative post 
of paymaster of the British forces. His pretensions to integrity 
are well known, even to the present’ moment; to have been 
rather aukward. 

t It was Lord Sandwich, who, in conjunction with Dr. War- 
burton, complained to the House of Lords, of Wilkes’s Essay 
on Woman, and induced their lordships interference; in con- 
sequence of which, the writer was prosecuted by the crown, 
The irony of the expression here adopted proceeds from the 
well known fact that Lord Sandwich was at this very time the’ 
most profligate and blasphemous of all the Bedford party. Eprr. 

|| Sir John Moore. 


VOL, I. M 


162 LETTERS OF 


As to public affairs, Old Noi is a little tender 
of descending to particulars. He does notdeny 
that Corsica has been sacrificed to France, and 
he confesses, that with regard to America, ‘his 
patron’s measures have been subject to some 
variation; but then he promises wonders of 
stability and firmness for the future. These are 
mysteries, of which we must not pretend to. 
judge by experience ; and truly, I fear, we shall 
perish in the Desart, before we arrive at the 
Land of Promise. In the regular course of 
things, the period of the Duke of Grafton’s mi- 
nisterial manhood should now be approaching. 
The imbecility of his infant state was committed 
to Lord Chatham. Charles Townshend took 
some care of his education * at that ambiguous 
age, which lies between the follies of political 
childhood, and the vices of puberty. The em- 
pire of the passions soon succeeded. His ear- 
liest principles and connexions were of course 
forgotten or despised. ‘The company he has 
lately kept has been of no service to his morals ; 


* Charles Townshend, younger brother of the first Marquis 
Townshend, who had been inducted into political life under the 
banners of the first Lord Holland, drew up the plan for taxing 
America, which the Duke of Grafton was persuaded to adopt, 
and thus avowed himself to be, in this instance, a pupil of 
Charles Townshend, who was Chancellor of the Exchequer at 
the period here referred to, in which office he died, and was 
sueceeded by Lord North in 1767. Epir. 


“SIUNIUSS 163 


and, in the conduct of public affairs, we see the 
character of his time of life strongly distinguish- 
ed. An obstinate ungovernable self-sufficiency 
plainly points out to us that state of imperfect 
maturity, at which the graceful levity of youth 
is lost, and the solidity of experience not yet 
acquired. It is possible the young man may in 
time grow wiser, and reform; but, if 1 under- 
stand his disposition, it is not of such corrigible 
stuff, that we should hope for any amendment 
in him, before he has accomplished the destruc- 
tion of this country. Like other rakes, he may 
perhaps live to see his error, but not until he has 
ruined his estate. 
PHILO JUNIUS. 


LETTER XV. 
TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF GRAFTON. 


MY LORD, 8 July, 1169. 
Tr nature had given you an understand- 

ing qualified to keep pace with the wishes and 
principles of your heart, she would have made 
you, perhaps, the most formidable minister that 
ever was employed, under a limited monarch, 
to accomplish the ruin of a free people. When 
neither the feelings of shame, the reproaches of 
conscience, nor the dread of punishment, form 
any bar to the designs of a minister, the people 

M 2 


164 LETTERS OF 


would have too much reason to lament their 
condition, if they did not find some resource in 
the weakness of his understanding. We owe it 
to the bounty of Providence, that the completest 
depravity of the heart is sometimes strangely 
united with a confusion of the mind, which coun- 
teracts the most favourite principles, and makes 
the same man treacherous without art, and a hy- 
pocrite without deceiving. ‘The measures, for 
instance, in which your Grace’s activity has 
been chiefly exerted, as they were adopted 
without skill, should have been conducted with 
more than common dexterity. But truly, my 
Lord, the execution has been as gross as the 
design. By one decisive step, you have de- 
feated all the arts of writing. You have fairly 
confounded the intrigues of opposition, and si- 
lenced the clamours of faction. A dark, am- 
biguous system might require and furnish the 
materials of ingenious illustration; and, in doubt- 
ful measures, the virulent exaggeration of party 
must be employed, to rouse and engage the pas- 
sions of the people. You have now brought the 
merits. of your administration to an issue, on 
which every Englishman, of the narrowest ca- 
pacity, may determine for himself. It is not 
an alarm to the passions, but a calm appeal to 
the judgment of the people, upon their own 
most essential interests. A more experienced 


JUNIUS. 165 


minister would not have hazarded a direct inva- 
sion of the first principles of the constitution, 
before he had made some progress in subduing 
the spirit of the people. With such a cause as 
yours, my Lord, it is not sufficient that you 
have the court at your devotion, unless you can 
find means to corrupt or intimidate the jury. 
The collective body of the people form that jury, 
and from their decision there is but one appeal. 

Whether you have talents to support you, at 
a crisis of such difficulty and danger, should 
long since have been considered. Judging truly 
of your disposition, you have perhaps mistaken 
the extent of your capacity. Good faith and 
folly have so long been received as synonimous 
terms, that the reverse of the proposition has 
grown into credit, and every villain fancies him- 
self a man of abilities. It is the apprehension 
of your friends, my Lord, that you have drawn 
some hasty conclusion of this sort, and that a 
partial reliance upon your moral character has 
betrayed you beyond the depth of your under- 
standing. You have now carried things too far 
to retreat. You have plainly declared to the 
people what they are to expect from the conti- 
nuance of your administration. It is time for 
your Grace to consider what you also may ex- 
pect in return from their spirit and ther resent- 
ment. 


166 LETTERS OF 


Since the accession of our most gracious So- 
vereign to the throne, we have seen a system of 
government, which may well be called a reign 
of experiments. Parties of all denominations 
have been employed and dismissed. ‘The advice 
of the ablest mem in this country has been re- 
peatedly called for and rejected; and when the 
Royal displeasure has been signified to a minister, 
the marks of it have usually been proportioned — 
to his abilities and integrity. ‘The spirit of the 
FAVOURITE had some apparent influence upon 
every administration ; and every set of ministers 
preserved an appearance of duration as long as 
they submitted to that influence. But there 
were certain services to be performed for the 
Favourite’s security, or to gratify his resent- 
ments, which your predecessors in office had 
the wisdom or the virtue not to undertake. The 
moment this refractory spirit was discovered, 
their disgrace was determined. Lord Chatham, 
Mr. Grenville, and Lord Rockingham have suc- 
cessively had the honour to be dismissed for 
preferring their duty, as servants of the public, 
to those compliances which were expected from 
their station. A submissive administration was 
at last gradually collected from the deserters of 
all parties, interests, and connexions: and no- 
thing remained but to find a leader for these 
gallant well-disciplined troops. Stand forth, my 


JUNIUS. 167 


Lord, for thou art the man. Lord Bute found 
no resource of dependance or security in the 
proud, imposing superiority of Lord Chatham’s 
abilities, the shrewd inflexible judgment of Mr. 
Grenville *, nor in the mild but determined in- 
tegrity of Lord Rockingham. His views and 
situation required a creature void of all these 
properties; and he was forced to go through 
every division, resolution, composition, and re- 
finement of political chemistry, before he hap- 
pily arrived at the caput mortuum of vitriol in 
your Grace. Flat and insipid in your retired 
state, but brought into action, you become vi- 
triol again. Such are the extremes of alternate 
indolence or fury, which have governed your 
whole administration. Your circumstances with 
regard to the people soon becoming desperate, 


* Mr. G. Grenville, younger brother of Lord Temple, and 
brother in law to Lord Chatham, was a political eléve of his 
maternal uncle Lord Cobham. He first attached himself to the 
Tory party, in consequence of marrying the daughter of Sir Wm, 
Wyndham, the confidential friend of Bolingbroke, and father 
of Lord Egremont ; and was made one of the secretaries of state, 
when Lord Bute in 1762 was appointed first Lord of the ‘Trea- 
sury. He planned the American Stamp Act, and commenced 
the opposition to Wilkes. He afterwards, however, became dis- 
gusted with Lord Bute, and, upon his resignation, firmly attached 
himself to the party of Lord Rockingham; the most pure and 
unmixt Whig leader of his day, with whom also Lord Temple 
and the Earl of Chatham had now united themselves, Ep1T. 


168 LETTERS OF 


like other honest servants, you determined to 
involve the best of masters in the same difficulties 
with yourself. We owe it to your Grace’s well- 
directed labours, that your Sovereign has been 
persuaded to doubt of the affections of his sub- 
jects, and the people to suspect the virtues of 
their Sovereign, at a time when both were un- 
questionable. You have degraded the royal 
dignity into a base, dishonourable competition 
with Mr. Wilkes, nor had you abilities to carry 
even this last contemptible triumph over a pri- 
vate man, without the grossest violation of the 
fundamental laws of the constitution and rights 
of the people. But these are rights, my Lord, 
which you can no more annihilate, than you can 
the soil to which they are annexed. The ques- 
tion no longer turns upon points of national ho- 
nour and security abroad, or on the degrees of 
expedience and propriety of measures at home. 
It was not inconsistent that you should abandon 
the cause of liberty in another country*, which 
you had persecuted in your own; and in the 
common arts of domestic corruption, we miss 
no part of Sir Robert Walpole’s systemt except 
his abilities. In this humble imitative line, you 
might long have proceeded, safe and contempt- 
ible. You might, probably, never have risen to 


* Corsica. EDIT. 
+ See note to Letter xvi. p. 177. epit: 


JUNIUS. 169 


the dignity of being hated, and even have been 
despised with moderation. But it seems you 
meant to be distinguished, and, to a mind like 
yours, there was no other road to fame but by 
the destruction of a noble fabric, which you 
thought had been too long the admiration of 
mankind. The use you have made of the mi- 
litary force introduced an alarming change in 
the mode of executing the laws. The arbitrary 
appointment of Mr. Luttrell invades the foun- 
dation of the laws themselves, as it manifestly 
transfers the right of legislation from those whom 
the people have chosen, to those whom they 
have rejected. With a succession of such ap- 
pointments, we may soon see a House of Com- 
mons collected, in the choice of which the other 
towns and counties of England will have as 
little share as the devoted county of Middlesex. 

Yet, I trust, your Grace will find that the peo- 
ple of this country are neither to be intimidated 
by violent measures, nor deceived by refine« 
ments. When they see Mr. Luttrell seated in 
the House of Commons by mere dint of power, 
and in direct opposition to the choice of a whole 
county, they will not listen to those subtleties, 
by which every arbitrary exertion of authority 
is explained into the law and privilege of par- 
liament. It requires no persuasion of argument, 
but simply the evidence of the senses, to con- 


170 LETTERS OF 


vince them, that to transfer the right of election 
from the collective to the representative body 
of the people, contradicts all those ideas of a 
House of Commons, which they have received 
from their forefathers, and which they have al- 
ready, though vainly perhaps, delivered to their 
children. The principles, on which this violent 
measure has been defended, have added scorn 
to injury, and forced us to feel, that we are not 
only oppressed, but insulted. 

With what force, my Lord, with what pro- 
tection are you prepared to meet the united de- 
testation of the people of England? The city of 
London has given a generous example to the 
kingdom, in what manner a king of this country 
ought to be addressed * ; and I fancy, my Lord, 
it is not yet in your courage to stand between 
your Sovereign and the addresses of his subjects. 
The injuries you have done this country are such 
as demand not only redress, but vengeance. In 
vain shall you look for protection to that venal 
vote, which you have already paid for—another 
must be purchased; and to save a minister, the 
House of Commons must declare themselves not 
only independent of their constituents, but the 
determined enemies of the constitution. Con- 


* See this subject farther noticed in Junrus’s Letter xxoxvie, 
Vol. II. p. 104. 


JUNIUS. 171 


sider, my Lord, whether this be an extremity 
to which their fears will permit them to advance; 
or, if their protection should fail you, how far 
you are authorized to rely upon the sincerity of 
those smiles, which a pious court lavishes with- 
out reluctance upon a libertine by profession. 
It is not, indeed, the least of the thousand con- 
tradictions which attend you, that a man, marked 
to the world by the grossest violation of all ce- 
remony and decorum, should be the first servant 
of a court, in which prayers are morality, and 
kneeling is religion. ‘Trust not too far to ap- 
_pearances, by which your predecessors have been 
deceived, though they have not been injured. 
Even the best of princes may at last discover, 
that this is a contention, in which every thing 
may be lost, but nothing can be gained; and as 
you became minister by accident, were adopted 
without choice, trusted without confidence, and 
continued without favour, be assured that, when- 
ever an occasion presses, you will be discarded 
without even the forms of regret. You will then 
have reason to be thankful, if you are permitted 
to retire to that seat of learning, which, in con- 
templation of the system of your life, the com- 
parative purity of your manners with those of 
their high steward, and a thousand other recom- 
mending circumstances, has chosen you to en- 
courage the growing virtue of their youth, and 


172 LETTERS OF 


to preside over their education *. Whenever the 
spirit of distributing prebends and bishopricks 
shall have departed from you, you will find that 
learned seminary perfectly recovered from the 
delirium of an installation, and, what in truth 
it ought to be, once more a peaceful scene of 
slumber and thoughtless meditation. ‘The ve- 
nerable tutors of the university will no longer 
distress your modesty, by proposing you for a 
pattern to their pupils. The learned dulness of 
declamation will be silent t; and even the venal 
muse t, though happiest in fiction, will forget 
your virtues. Yet, for the benefit of the suc- 
ceeding age, I could wish that your retreat might 
be deferred, until your morals shall happily be 
ripened to that maturity of corruption, at which 
the worst examples cease to be contagious. 
JUNIUS. 


* The Duke of Grafton was chancellor, and Lord Sandwich 
high steward of the university of Cambridge. Epit. 

+ Dr. Johnson is the person here supposed to be hinted at 
by the author. Ebr. 

{ He alludes to Gray’s celebrated Ode to Music, composed 
and performed on the installation of his Grace as chancellor of 
the university; beginning, 

Hence! avaunt! ’tis holy ground— 
Comus and his midnight crew, &c, EpIT. 


JUNIUS. 173 


LETIER. XVI. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 19 July, 1769. 


A creat deal of useless argument 
might have been saved, in the political contest 
which has arisen from the expulsion of Mr. 
Wilkes, and the subsequent appointment of Mr. 
Luttrell, if the question had been once stated 
with precision, to the satisfaction of each party, 
and clearly understood by them both. But in 
this, as in almost every other dispute, it usually 
happens that much time is lost in referring to a 
multitude of cases and precedents, which prove 
nothing to the purpose, or in maintaining pro- 
positions, which are either not disputed, or, 
whether they be admitted or denied, are entirely 
indifferent as to the matter in debate; until at 
last the mind, perplexed and confounded with 
the endless subtleties of controversy, loses sight 
of the main question, and never arrives at truth. 
Both parties in the dispute are apt enough to 
practise these dishonest artifices. “The man, who 
is conscious of the weakness of his cause, is in- 
terested in concealing it: and, on the other side, 
it is not uncommon to see a good cause mangled 
by advocates, who do not know the real strength 
of it. 


174 LETTERS OF 


I should be glad to know, for instance, to 
what purpose, in the present case, so many pre- 
cedents have been produced to prove, that the 
House of Commons have a right to expel one of 
their own members; that it belongs to them to 
judge of the validity of elections; or that the 
law of parliament is part of the law of the land*? 
After all these propositions are admitted, Mr. 
Luttrell’s right to his seat will continue to be 
just as disputable as it was before. Not one of 
them is at present in agitation. Let it be ad- 
mitted that the House of Commons were autho- 
rized to expel Mr. Wilkes; that they are the 
proper court to judge of elections, and that the 
law of parliament is binding upon the people; 
still it remains to be enquired whether the House, 
by their resolution in favour of Mr. Luttrell, 
have or have not truly declared that law. To 
facilitate this enquiry, I would have the ques- 
tion cleared of all foreign or indifferent matter. 
The following state of it will probably be thought 
a fair one by both parties; and then I imagine 
there is no gentleman in this country, who will 
not be capable of forming a judicious and true 
opinion upon it. I take the question to be strictly 
this: ** Whether or no it be the known, esta- 


* The reader will observe that these admissions are made, 
not as of truths unquestionable, but for the sake of argument 
and in order to bring the real question to issue, 


7 


JUNIUS. 175 


blished law of parliament, that the expulsion of 
a member of the House of Commons, of itself 
creates in him such an incapacity to be re-elect- 
ed, that, at a subsequent election, any votes 
given to him are null and void, and that any 
other candidate, who, except the person expel- 
led, has the greatest number of votes, ought to 
be the sitting member.” 

To prove that the affirmative is the law of 
parliament, I apprehend it is not sufficient for 
the present House of Commons to declare it to 
be so. We may shut our eyes indeed to the 
dangerous consequences of suffering one branch 
of the legislature to declare new laws, without 
argument or example, and it may perhaps be 
prudent enough to submit to authority; but a 
mere assertion will never convince, much less 
will it be thought reasonable to prove the right 
by the fact itself! The ministry have not yet 
pretended to such a tyranny over our minds. To 
support the affirmative fairly, it will either be 
necessary to produce some statute, in which that 
positive provision shall have. been made, that 
specific disability clearly created, and the con- 
sequences of it declared ; or, if there be no such 
statute, the custom of parliament must then be 
referred to, and some case or cases*, strictly in 


* Precedents, in opposition to principles, have little weight 
with Junrus; but he thought it necessary to meet the ministry, 
upon their own ground, 


176 LETTERS OF 


point, must be produced, with the decision of 
the court upon them; for I readily admit that 
the custom of parliament, once clearly proved, 
is equally binding with the common and statute 
law. 

The consideration of what may be reasonable 
or unreasonable makes no part of this question. 
We are enquiring what the law is, not what it 
ought to be. Reason may be applied to shew 
the impropriety or expedience of a law, but we 
must have either statute or precedent to prove 
the existence of it. At the same time I do not 
mean to admit that the late resolution of the 
House of Commons is defensible on general prin- 
ciples of reason, any more than in law. Thisis 
not the hinge on which the debate turns. 

Supposing, therefore, that I have laid down an 
accurate state of the question, I will venture to 
affirm, 1st, That there is no statute existing, by 
which that specific disability, which we speak of, 
is created. If there be, let itbe produced. The 
argument will:then be at an end: 7 

2dly, That there is no precedent in all the pro- 
ceedings of the House of Commons which comes 
entirely home to the present case, viz. ‘* where 
an expelled member has been returned again, 
and. another candidate, with an inferior number 
of votes, has been declared the sitting member.” 
If there be such a precedent, let it be given to 
us plainly, and I am sure it will have more weight 

6 


JUNIUS. 177 
than all the cunning arguments which have been 
drawn from inferences and probabilities. 

The ministry, in that laborious pamphlet, 
which, I presume, contains the whole strength of 
the party, have declared*, « That Mr. Walpole’st 
was the first and only instance, in which the elec- 
tors of any county or borough had returned a 
person expelled to serve in the same parliament.” 
Itis not possible to conceive a case more exactly 
in point. Mr. Walpole was expelled, and having 


* Case of the Middlesex election considered, page 38. 

+ This fact occurred while Mr. Walpole was in an inferior 
capacity to that in which he afterwards appeared so conspicu- 
ously as prime minister of George I. and George II. At the 
period in question, the Tories having obtained a majority in 
parliament, expelled him for the crime of having accepted pro- 
fits upon a military contract, while secretary at war, and at the 
same time possessed influence enough to have him committed 
to the Tower. He was member for Lynn Regis, the burgesses 
of which borough were warmly attached tohim. It was for this 
borough he had been returned at an early period of his life, by 
which he was enabled,while a young politician, to head the Whig 
party against St. John, afterwards Lord Bolingbroke, who took 
a leading part in the Tory administration of Harley. 

From the disgrace into which he was hereby for a long time 
plunged, he was at length relieved by the failure of the minis- 
ter’s favourite expedient of the South Sea incorporation, and the 
extreme unpopularity in which he was consequently involved. 
Walpole now triumphed upon the ruin of his rival; became 
prime minister, retained the post through the whole of the 
existing and part of the next reign, and for his services was 
created Earl of Orford. epir. 

VOL. I. N 


178 LETTERS OF 


a majority of votes at the next election, was re- 
turned again. The friends of Mr. Taylor, a can- 
didate set up by the ministry, petitioned the 
House that he might be the sitting member ™. 
Thus far the circumstances tally exactly, except 
that our House of Commons saved Mr. Luttrell 
the trouble of pétitioning. The point of law 
however was the same. It came regularly before 
the House, and it was their business to determine 
upon it. ‘They did determine it, for they de- 


* The following are the particulars of this case as extracted 
from the journals of the House of Commons: 

“ On the 23 of February 1711, a petition of the freemen and 
free-burghers of the borough of King’s Lynn, in the county of 
Norfolk, was presented to the House, and read; setting forth, 
that Monday the eleventh of February last, being appointed for 
chusing a member to serve in parliament for this borough, in 
the room of Robert Walpole. Esq. expelled this House, Samuel 
Taylor Esq. was elected their burgess; but John Bagg, present 
mayor of the said borough, refused to return the said Samuel 
Taylor, though required so to do ; and returned the said Robert 
Walpole, though expelled this House, and then a prisoner in the 
Tower, and praying the consideration of the House. 

“ March 6th. The order of the day being read of taking 
into consideration the merits of the petition of the freemen and 
free-burghers of the borough of King’s Lynn in the county of 
Norfolk, and a motion being made that council be called in, 
upon a division, it was resolved in the negative: Tellers for the 
yeas Sir Charles Turner, Mr. Pulteney, 127. Tellers for the noes, 
Sir Simeon Stuart, Mr. Foster, 212.—a motion being made, 
and the question put, that Robert Walpole Esq. having been, 
this session of parliament committed a prisoner to the Tower 

of 


JUNIUS. 179 


clared Mr. Taylor not duly elected. If it be 
said that they meant this resolution as matter of 
favour and indulgence to the borough, which 
chad retorted Mr. Walpole upon them, in order 
that the burgesses, knowing what. the law was, 
might correct their error. I answer, 

I. That it is a strange wa¥ of arguing, to op- 
pose a supposition, which no man can prove, to 
a fact which proves itself. 

II. That if this were the intention of the 
House of Commons, it must have defeated itself: 
The burgesses of Lynn could never have known 
their error, much less could they have corrected 
it, by any instruction they received from the pro- 
ceedings of the House of Commons. They might 
perhaps have foreseen, that, if they returned Mr. 
Walpole again, he would again be rejected ; but 
they never could infer, from a resolution by 
which the candidate with the fewest votes was 


of London, and expelled this House for an high breach of trust 
in the execution of his office, and notorious corruption, when 
secretary at war, was, and is, incapable of being elected a 
member to serve in this present parliament, it was resolved, 
upon a division, in the affirmative. Then a motion being made, 
and the question put, that Samuel Taylor Esq. is duly elected 
a burgess to serve in the present parliament for the borough of 
King’s Lynn in the county of Norfolk, it passed in the negative. 
Resolved, that the late election of a burgess to serve in the pre- 
sent parliament for the said borough of King’s Lynn, in the 
county of Norfolk, is a void election.” kyr, 
N 2 


180 LETTERS OF 


declared not duly elected, that, at a future elec- 
tion, and in similar circumstances, the House of 
Commons would reverse their resolution, and 
receive the same candidate as duly elected, 
whom they had before rejected. 

' This indeed would have been a most extra- 
ordinary way of declaring the law of parliament, 
and what I presume no man, whose understand- 
ing is not at cross-purposes with itself, could 
possibly understand. 

If, in a case of this importance, I thought 
myself at liberty to argue from suppositions ra- 
ther than from facts, I think the probability, in 
this instance, is directly the reverse of what the 
ministry affirm; and that it is much more likely 
that the House of Commons at that time would 
rather have strained a point in favour of Mr. 
Taylor, than that they would have violated the 
jaw of parliament, and robbed Mr. Taylor of a 
right legally vested in him, to gratify a refrac- 
tory borough, which, in defiance of them, had 
returned a person branded with the strongest 
mark of the displeasure of the House. 

But really, Sir, this way of talking, for I can- 
not call it argument, is a mockery of the com- 
mon understanding of the nation, too gross to 
be endured. Our dearest interests are at stake. 
An attempt has been made, not merely to rob 
a single county of its rights, but, by inevitable 


JUNIUS. 18] 


consequence, to alter the constitution of the 
House of Commons. This fatal attempt has suc- 
ceeded, and stands as a precedent, recorded for 
ever*. If the ministry are unable to defend 
their cause by fair argument, founded on facts, 
let them spare us at least the mortification of 
being amused and deluded like children. I 
believe there is yet a spirit of resistance in this 
country, which will not submit to be oppressed ; 
but Iam sure there is a fund of good sense in 


this country, which cannot be deceived. 
JUNIUS., 


LETTER XVII. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 1 August, 1769. 
Ir will not be necessary for Junrus to 

take the trouble of answering your correspondent 
G. A. or the quotation from a speech without 
doors, published in your paper of the 28th of 
last montht. ‘The speech appeared before Ju- 


* See the Editor’s note to Letter xvi. in which the reader 
will find a particular account of the steps taken by Mr. Wilkes 
to procure the erasure of these proceedings from the 6 Joupnale 
of the House of Commons. Epir. 

+ It seems but fair that the reader should be put into pos- 
session of both the papers which it is the object of the present 


letter to oppose; but more especially the latter, which was 
written 


152 LETTERS OF 


nius’s letter, and as the author seems to consider 
the great proposition, on which all his argument 
depends, viz. that Mr. Wilkes was under that 
known legal incapacity, of which Juntos speaks, 
as a point granted, his speech is, in no shape, an 


written by Dr. Blackstone, and a passage from another part 
of which Junius, in p. 230 of this volume, contrasts with one 
from the Commentaries. The Editor has therefore extracted 
them from the journal referred to. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 

I wave perused, with all due attention, the letter of 

Juntus, inserted in your paper of the 19th inst. I perfectly 
agree with him, that a great deal of useless argument might 
have been saved in the political contest which has arisen upon 
the expulsion of Mr. Wilkes, and the subsequent appoint- 
ment of Mr. Luttrell, if the question had been once stated with 
precision to the satisfaction of each party. Yet after all the 
ingenious pains Juntus has taken, I much doubt whether the 
question, as he has thought fit to state it, will at all satisfy more 
than one party. The question, as he has given it, is * Whe- 
ther or no it be the known established law of parliament, that 
the expulsion of a member of the House of Commons, of itself 
creates in him such an incapacity of being re-elected, that at 
a subsequent election, any votes given to him are null and void, 
and that any other candidate who, except the person expelled, 
has the greatest number of votes, ought to be the sitting mem- 
ber?” Junius having thus formed his question, entertains the 
reader with a few spirited flourishes, not perhaps directly ad 
rem; and then asserts, what probably the party he opposes 
will not deny, viz. “ That to support the affirmative fairly, 
it will either be necessary to produce some statute, in which 
that positive provision shall have been made, that specific dis- 
ability 


JUNIUS. 183 


answer to Junius, for this is the -very question in 
debate. 

As to G. A. I observe first, that if he did 
not admit of Junrus’s state of the question, he 
should have shewn the fallacy of it, or given us a 


ability clearly created, and the consequences of it declared ; 
or if there be no such statute, the custom of parliament must 
then be referred to, and some case, or cases, strictly in point, 
must be produced, with the decision of the court upon them.” 
Suppose, for argument’s sake, that no such statute, no such 
custom of parliament, no such case in point can be produced» 
does it therefore follow that the determination of the House of 
Commons, in regard to Mr. Wilkes and Mr. Luttrell, was 
wrong? Have not the members of the present House as good 
a right to establish a precedent, as the members of any antece- 
dent house ever had? Junius admits-a right in the House to 
expel. But was there not a time prior to all expulsion ? and 
was the first expulsion therefore wrong? Was there not a 
time prior to every other precedent in the Journals of the 
House? But was every such, or any such precedent therefore 
wrong? Are things wrong merely because they were never 
done before ? Or do wrong things become right by mere dint 
of repetition ? Should Junius think fit to answer these ques- 
tions, I may be induced perhaps to enlarge upon the subject. 
i I am, Sir, 
Your humble servant, 
July 26. G. A. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, July 28, 1769. 
In answer to the arguments and observations of your 
correspondent Juntvs (relating to the vote of the 9th of May, 
in favour of Colonel Luttrell) I send you the following extract 
from 


184 LETTERS OF 


more exact one ;—secondly, that, considering 
the many hours and days, which the ministry 
and their advocates have wasted, in public de- 
bate, in compiling large quartos, and collecting 
innumerable precedents, expressly to prove that 


from a pamphlet just published, which please to insert as soon 
as you can, and thereby oblige, 
AN OLD CORRESPONDENT. 


A speech without doors upon the subject of a vote given on the 
9th day of May, 1769. 


“Your question I will answer, having first premised, 
that if you are satisfied we did right in setting aside Mr. 
Wilkes’s election, I cannot believe it will be a very difficult task 
to convince you that the admitting of Mr. Luttrell was the 
unavoidable consequence. ‘No: (say you) for surely you 
might have declared it a void election. Why go greater 
lengths than in former times, even the most heated and violent, 
it was ever thought proper to go? Or upon what ground, either 
of reason or authority, can you justify the vote you gave, that 
Mr. Luttrell, who certainly had not the majority, was duly 
elected ?? The question you have a right to put to me, and I 
mean to give it a direct answer. 

“ Now the principle upon which I voted was this, that in all 
cases of election by a majority of votes, wherever the candidate 
for whom the most votes are given, appears to have been, at the 
time of the election, under a known legal incapacity, the per- 
son who had the next greatest number of votes ought to be 
considered as the person duly elected. And this, as a general 
principle, I take to be altogether uncontrovertible. We may 
differ in our ways of expressing the principle, or of explaining 
the grounds of it: some chusing to state it, that the electors 
voting for such incapable ‘person, do, for that time, forfeit 

their 


JUNIUS. 185 


the late proceedings of the House of Commons 
are warranted by the law, custom, and practice 
of parliament, it is rather an extraordinary sup- 
position, to be made by one of their own party, 
even for the sake of argument, that no such sta- 


their right of voting ; others, that their votes are thrown away; 
and others, that votes for a person not legally capable, are not 
legal votes. But in whatever way we assign the ground of the 
rule, the result and conclusion is still the same, that, in every 
such case, the election of the capable person by the inferior 
number of votes, is a good and valid election. 

“Nor is this rule, founded as it is in sound sense and public 
necessity, to be put out of countenance by a little ingenious 
sophistry, playing upon the ambiguity of certain undefined 
terms, taunting us with the reproach of elections by a minority» 
of inverting the rules of arithmetic, and the like. Not even 
the sacredness of the rights of the electors can stand against its 
authority ; for sacred as those rights ought ever to be held, the 
exercise of them, as wellas of all the other rights of individuals, 
must ever be confined within such bounds, and governed by 
such rules, as are consistent with the attainment of the great 
public ends for which they were established. But could any 
thing be more preposterous than if, while you are securing to 
individuals the right they have to take part in determining who 
‘shall be appointed to discharge the several public offices and 
trusts, no care should be taken that the public, in all events, 
may be secure of having any persons appointed at all? Yet to 
this inconvenience, the public must be perpetually exposed, if 
the rule were to be strictly and invariably followed, that no- 
thing but a majority of the electors could ever make a good 
election. ‘That a majority of the whole number intitled to have 
voice in the election, is not necessary, will be readily admitted ; 
for at that rate, the absence of one half of the electors might 

defeat 


186 LETTERS OF 


lute, no such custom of parliament, no such case in 
point can be produced. G. A. may however 
make the supposition with safety. It contains 
nothing, but literally the fact, except that there 
isa case exactly in point, with a decision of the 


defeat the possibility of any election at all. Neither is it ne- 
cessary, in order to a candidate’s being duly elected, that he 
should have the votes of more than one half of the electors 
present; since, if it were, diversity of inclinations among the 
electors, and the putting up of three candidates, might as com- 
pletely frustrate all possibility of supplying the vacancy, as the 
absence of one half of the electors would in the former case. 
Accordingly, therefore, we constantly see, that wherever there 
are more than two candidates for one vacancy, the election is 
determined, not so properly by a majority, as by a plurality 
of voices; and the candidate, who has more voices than any 
one of his competitors, although fewer than one half of the 
electors present, is always determined to be well and duly 
elected ; there being indeed no other method allowed by the 
constitution, of voting against one candidate, but by voting for 
another ; nor any liberty of declaring whom I would prefer in 
the second place, in case my first vote should prove ineffectual ; 
either of which allowances might prevent any election being 

made. 
“Thus far then we are guarded against the public service 
being disappointed, either by the remissness of the electors in 
absenting themselves from the election, or by such a diversity 
of opinions among the electors present, as though innocent in 
itself, would yet be of fatal consequence to the public, should 
it be suffered to operate so far as to prevent any effectual elec- 
tion from taking place. But much in vain have these rules 
been established, if it is still to be in the power of the same 
number of electors, by a little management, to effect the same 
purpose, 


JUNIUS. 187 


House, diametrically opposite to that which the 
present House of Commons came to in favour of 
Mr. Luttrell. 

‘The ministry now begin to be ashamed of 
the weakness of their cause, and, as it usually 
happens with falsehood, are driven to the neces- 


purpose, and put an effectual bar to all possibility of a valid 
election. Had they, by staying away, declared that they would 
take no part in supplying the vacancy, their fellow electors, 
who chose to exercise their franchise, and upon whom, in that 
case, the complete right would have devolved, might have ex- 
ercised their right accordingly, and the public service would 
have been provided for. But shall they be allowed to come, 
and by declaring that they will vote against one candidate, but 
for no other, or by voting for a person whom they know to 
be incapable of holding the office, as truly, to all intents and 
purposes, deprive their fellows of their right, and the public 
of its due, as if, instead of coming, they had only sent a pro- 
hibition of proceeding to any election till it should be their 
good pleasure to suffer one? Against such a mockery of the 
public authority common sense reclaims, and has therefore 
provided against this abuse, by pointing out this farther quali- 
fication of the rule by which elections are to be decided. That, 
as the electors who give no vote at all, have no power of ex- 
cluding any candidate for whom other electors do vote, so those 
who give their votes for a person whom they know to be by law 
incapable, are to be considered exactly on the same footing as 
if they gave no votes at all? Not to give any vote, to declare I 
vote for nobody, or to vote for the Great Mogul, must undoubt- 
edly have the same effect. 

“Thus then it appeared to me, that the general rule, that in 
case of a known legal incapacity in the person having the ma- 
jority of voices, the capable person next upon the poll, although 

chosen 


188 LETTERS OF 


sity of shifting their ground, and changing their 
whole defence. At first we were told that no- 
thing could be clearer than that the proceedings 
of the House of Commons were justified by the 
known law and uniform custom of parliament. 
But now it seems, if there be no law, the House 
of Commons have a right to make one, and if 
there be no precedent, they have a right to 
create the first ;—for this, I presume, is the 


chosen by a minority, is duly elected, is consonant to reason, 
is the dictate of common sense. 

« That it had also the sanction of authority, I was as clearly 
convinced. The practice of the courts of law, in such cases, 
seems not to be disputed; they have, by repeated decisions, 
established the principle. 

“Upon these grounds, therefore, both of reason and authority, 
I not only thought myself fully justified in giving my vote, that 
Mr. Luttrell was duly elected, but in truth I could not think my- 
self at liberty to vote otherwise, being convinced, that as, on 
the one hand, by so voting I should do no wrong to the 1143 
freeholders of Middlesex, who, for the chance of being able to 
overbear the authority of the House of Commons, which had 
adjudged Mr. Wilkes to be incapable, had chosen to forego 
their right of taking part in the nomination of a capable per- 
son in his room; so, by a contrary decision, I should have 
done a most manifest injustice to Mr. Luttrell, and to the 296 
freeholders who voted for him; and who, in failure of a nomina- 
tion by an equal number of freeholders of any other capable can- 
didate, had, upon every principle of reason, and eyery rule of 
law, as well as according to the uniform usage of parliament, 
conferred upon him a clear title to sit as one of the representa- 
tives for the county of Middlesex.” Epir. 


JUNIUS. 189 


amount of the questions proposed to Junius. If 
your correspondent had been at all versed in 
the law of parliament, or generally in the laws 
of this country, he would have seen that this de- 
fence is as weak and false as the former. 

The privileges of either House of Parliament, 
it is true, are indefinite, that is, they have not 
been described or laid down in any one code or 
declaration whatsoever; but whenever a ques- 
tion of privilege has arisen, it has invariably been 
disputed or maintained upon the footing of pre- 
cedents alone*. In the course of the proceed- 
ings upon the Aylesbury election, the House of 
Lords resolved, ‘* That neither House of Parlia- 
ment had any power, by any vote or declaration, 
to create to themselves any new privilege that 
was not warranted by the known laws and cus- 
toms of parliament.” And to this rule the House 
of Commons, though otherwise they had acted 
in a very arbitrary manner, gave their assent, 
for they affirmed that they had guided them- 
selves by it, in asserting their privileges.—Now, 
Sir, if this be true with respect to matters of pri- 
vilege, in which the House of Commons, indivi- 
dually and as a body, are principally concerned, 
how much more strongly will it hold against any 

* This is still meeting the ministry upon their own ground ; 
for, in truth, no precedents will support either natural injus- 
tice, or violation of positive right. 


6 


190 LETTERS OF 


pretended power in that House, to create or de- 
clare a new law, by which not only the rights of 
the House over their own member, and those of 
the member himself are concluded, but also 
those of a third and separate party, I mean the 
frecholders of the kingdom. To do justice to 
the ministry, they have not yet pretended that 
any one or any two of the three estates have 
power to make a new law, without the concur- 
rence of the third. ‘They know that a man who 
maintains such a doctrine, is liable, by statute, 
to the heaviest penalties. ‘They do not acknow- 
ledge that the House of Commons have assumed 
a new privilege, or declared a new law.—On the 
contrary, they affirm that their proceedings have 
been strictly conformable to and founded upon 
the ancient law and custom of parliament. Thus 
therefore the question returns to the point, at 
which Junius had fixed it, viz. Whether or no 
this be the law of parliament. If it be not, the 
House of Commons had no legal authority to 
establish the precedent ; and the precedent it- 
self is a mere fact, without any proof of right 
whatsoever. 

Your correspondent concludes with a ques- 
tion of the simplest nature: Must a thing be 
wrong, because it has never been done before? No. 
But admitting it were proper to be done, that 
alone does not convey an authority to do it. 

7 


JUNIUS. 195 


As to the present case, I hope I shall never see 
the time, when not only a single person, but a 
whole county, and in effect the entire collective 
body of the people may again be robbed of their 
birthright by a vote of the House of Commons. 
But if, for reasons which I am unable to com- 
prehend, it be necessary to trust that House with 
a power so exorbitant and so unconstitutional, 
at least let it be given to them by an act of the 
legislature. 

PHILO JUNIUS. 


LETTER. XVIII. 


TO DR. WILLIAM BLACKSTONE, SOLICITOR GENERAL 
TO HER MAJESTY. 


SIR, 29 July, 1769. 
I sHatt make you no apology for 
considering a certain pamphlet, in which your 
late conduct is defended, as written by your- 
self*. The personal interest, the personal re- 


* This was at last admitted by the friends of the Solicitor 
General. The pamphlet was entitled, “ An answer to the 
question stated; and was a reply to a pamphlet from Sir 
William Meredith, one of the most active members of parlia- 
ment of the Whig party, entitled, “ The question stated,” in 
reference to the adjudication of Wilkes’s incapacity to sit in 
parliament after his last election ; in the course of which also, 
the inconsistency of opinion between that delivered by the 

Solicitor 


192 LETTERS OF 


sentments, and above all, that wounded spirit, 
unaccustomed to reproach, and I hope not 
frequently conscious of deserving it, are signals 
which betray the author to us as plainly as if 
your name were in the title-page. You appeal 
to the public in defence of your reputation. 
We hold it, Sir, that an injury offered to an 
individual is interesting to society. On this 
principle the people of England made common 
cause with Mr. Wilkes. On this principle, if 
you are injured, they will join in your resent- 
ment. I shall not follow you through the 
insipid form of a third person, but address my- 
self to you directly. 

You seem to think the channel of a pam- 
phlet more respectable and better suited to the 
dignity of your cause, than that of a news- 


Solicitor General in his Commentaries, and that on the point 
in question was severely animasiverted upon. 

The press was overwhelmed with tracts on this dispute from 
both sides. . Of these, the chief, independently of Sir William 
Meredith’s, and the reply to it by Sir William Blackstone, 
were “ The case of the last election for the county of Middle- 
sex considered,” attributed to Mr. Dyson, who was _nick- 
named, by his opponents, Mungo: “ Serious Considerations ;”” 
« Mungo on the use of Quotations;” “ Mungo’s case con- 
sidered ;” “ Letter to Junius ;” “ Postscript to Junius,” 
published in a subsequent edition to Sir William Blackstone’s 
reply, and “ The False Alarm,” written by Doctor Johnson. 
Of all these some incidental notice is taken in the course of the 
volumes before us. EDIT, _ 


JUNIUS. 193 


paper. Be itso. Yet if news-papers are scurri- 
lous, you must confess they are impartial. 
They give us, without any apparent preference, 
the wit and argument of the ministry, as well 
as the abusive dulness of the opposition. The 
scales are equally poised. It is not the printer’s 
fault if the greater weight inclines the balance. 
Your pamphlet then is divided into an attack 
upon Mr. Grenville’s character, and a defence 
of your own. It would have been more con- 
sistent perhaps with your professed intentions, 
to have confined yourself to the last. But 
anger has some claim to indulgence, and railing 
is usually a relief to the mind. I hope you 
have found benefit from the experiment. It is 
not my design to enter into a formal vindica- 
tion of Mr. Grenville, upon his own principles. 
I have neither the honour of being personally 
known to him*, nor do I pretend to be com- 
pletely master of all the facts. I need not run 
the risk of doing an injustice to his opinions, 
or to his conduct, when your pamphlet alone 


* This, as already observed in the Preliminary Essay, is a 
truly singular assertion when taken in connection with the 
fact, that Mr. Grenville, of all the political characters of the 
day, appears to have been our author’s favourite. He volun- 
tarily omits every opportunity of censuring him, and readily 
embraces every occasion of defending and extolling his conduct 
and principles.  EpIT. 

VOL. I. Oo 


194 LETTERS OF 


carries, upon the face of it, a full vindication 
of both. . 
Your first reflection is, that Mr. Grenville* 
was, of all men, the person, who should not 
have complained of inconsistence with regard 
to Mr. Wilkest. This, Sir, is either an un- 
meaning sneer, a peevish expression of resent- 
ment, or, if it'means any thing, you plainly 
beg the question; for whether his parliamentary 
conduct with regard to Mr. Wilkes has or has 
not been inconsistent, remains yet to be proved. 
But it seems he received upon the spot a suffici- 
ent chastisement for exercising so unfairlyt his 


. * Mr. Grenville had quoted a passage from the Doctor’s 
excellent commentaries, which directly contradicted the doc- 
trine maintained by the Doctor in the House of Commons. 

+ It has been already observed that the opposition to Wilkes 
commenced with Mr. George Grenville, who advised the issue 
of the General Warrant. It is observed also in the same note, 
that Grenville afterwards deserted the ministry, and attached 
himself strenuously to the Whig party. See note in Vol. I. 
p. 167. Upon this apparent inconsistency Junius shrewdly 
remarks, that whatever propriety or impropriety there might 
have been in Mr. Grenville’s opposing Wilkes personally— 
the present question has nothing to do with it—as he now 
supports him not on account of his personal character, but as 
the instrument of the people at large, whose rights and privi- 
leges the ministry have grossly violated by their conduct 
towards him. pir. 

t An inaccurate expression in the pamphlet alluded to. 
The chastisement that ensued is related in Vol. 1 p. 203. 

Blackstone 


JUNIUS. 195 


talent of misrepresentation. You are a lawyer, 
Sir, and know better than I do, upon what 
particular occasions a talent for misrepresenta- 
tion may be fairly exerted; but to punish a 
man a second time, when he has been once 
sufficiently chastised, is rather too severe. It 
is not in the laws of England; it is not in your 
own commentaries, nor is it yet, I believe, in 
the new law you have revealed to the House of 
Commons. I hope this doctrine has no exist- 
ence but in your own heart. After all, Sir, if 
you had consulted that sober discretion, which 
you seem to oppose with triumph to the honest 
jollity of a tavern, it might have occurred to 
you that, although you could have succeeded in 
fixing a charge of inconsistence upon Mr. Gren- 
ville, it would not have tended in any shape to 
exculpate yourself. 

Your next insinuation, that Sir William 
Meredith had hastily adopted the false glosses 
of his new ally, is of the same sort with the 
first. It conveys a sneer as little worthy of the 
gravity of your character, as it is useless to your 
defence. It is of little moment to the public to 
enquire, by whom the charge was conceived, 


Blackstone was thunderstruck at the contradiction pointed out 

by Grenville, and was incapable of uttering a word in his 

defence :—a pause ensued, and Mr. Grenville insultingly shook 

his head; for the rest see the page as above referred to. Epir. 
02 


196 LETTERS OF 


ar by whom it was adopted. ‘The only question 
we ask is, whether or no it be true. The re- 
mainder of your reflections upon Mr. Gren- 
ville’s conduct destroy themselves. He could 
not possibly come prepared to traduce your 
integrity tothe House. He could not foresee 
that you would even speak upon the question, 
much less could he foresee that you would 
maintain a direct contradiction of that doctrine, 
which you had solemnly, disinterestedly, and 
upon soberest reflection delivered to the public. 
He came armed indeed with what he thought 
a respectable authority, to support what he was 
convinced was the cause of truth, and I doubt 
not he intended to give you, in the course of the 
debate, an honourable and public testimony of 
his esteem. Thinking highly of his abilities, I 
cannot however allow him the gift of divination. 
As to what you are pleased to call a plan coolly 
formed to impose upon the House of Commons, 
and his producing it without provocation at 
midnight, I consider it as the language of pique 
and invective, therefore unworthy of regard. 
But, Sir, I am sensible I have followed your 
example too long, and wandered from the 
point. 
The quotation from your commentaries is 
matter of record. It can neither be altered 
by your friends, nor misrepresented by your 


JUNIUS. 197 


enemies; and I am willing to take your own 
word for what you have said in the House of 
Commons. If there be a real difference between 
what you have written and what you have 
spoken, you confess that your book ought to be 
the standard. Now, Sir, if words mean any 
thing, I apprehend that, when a long enumera- 
tion of disqualifications (whether by statute or 
the custom of parliament) concludes with these 
general comprehensive words, ‘* but subject to 
these restrictions and disqualifications, every 
subject of the realm is eligible of common 
right,’’ a reader of plain understanding, must 
of course rest satisfied that no species of dis- 
qualification whatsoever had been omitted. The 
known character of the author, and the ap- 
parent accuracy with which the whole work 
is compiled, would confirm him in his opinion; 
nor could he possibly form any other judgment, 
without looking upon your commentaries in the 
same light in which you consider those penal 
laws, which though not repealed, are fallen into 
disuse, and are now in effect A SNARE TO THE 
UNWARY*. bi obf 

* If, in stating the law upon any point, a judge delibe- 
rately affirms that he has included every case, and it should 
appear that he has purposely omitted a material case, he does 
in effect lay @ snare for the unwary. AUTHOR. 


This last part of the sentence is a quotation artfully selected 
from Blackstone’s own works, and turned against himself. eprr. 


198 LETTERS OF 


You tell us indeed that it was not part of . 
your plan to specify any temporary incapacity, 
and that you could not, without a spirit of 
prophecy, have specified the disability of a 
private individual, subsequent to the period at 
which you wrote. What your plan was I know 
not; but what it should have been, in order to 
complete the work you have given us, is by no 
means difficult to determine. ‘The incapacity, 
which you call temporary, may continue seven 
years ; and though you might not have foreseen 
the particular case of Mr. Wilkes, you might 
and should have foreseen the possibility of such 
a case, and told us how far the House of Com- 
mons were authorized to proceed in it by the 
law and custom of parliament. The freeholders 
of Middlesex would then have known what they 
had to trust to, and would never have returned 
Mr. Wilkes, when colonel Luttrell was a candi- 
date against him. They would have chosen some 
indifferent person, rather than submit to be 
represented by the object of their contempt and 
detestation. 

Your attempt to distinguish between disa- 
bilities, which affect whole classes of men, and 
those which affect individuals only, is really 
unworthy of your understanding. Your com- 
mentaries had taught me that, although the 
instance, in- which a penal law is exerted, be 


JUNIUS, 199 


particular, the laws themselves are general. 
They are made for the benefit and instruction 
of the public, though the penalty falls only upon 
an individual. You cannot but know, Sir, that 
what was Mr. Wilkes’s case yesterday may be 
yours or mine to-morrow, and that consequently 
the common right of every subject of the realm 
is invaded by it. Professing therefore to treat 
of the constitution of the House of Commons, 
and of the laws and customs relative to that 
constitution, you certainly were guilty of a most 
unpardonable omission in taking no notice of a 
right and privilege of the House, more extra- 
ordinary and more arbitrary than all the others 
they possess put together. If the expulsion of 
a member, not under any other legal disability, of 
itself creates in him an incapacity to be re-elect- 
ed, I see a ready way marked out, by which the 
majority may at any time remove the honestest 
and ablest men who happen to be in opposition 
to them. To say that they will not make this 
extravagant use of their power, would be a 
language unfit for a man so learned in the laws 
as you are. By your doctrine, Sir, they have 
the power, and laws you know are intended 
to guard against what men may do, not to trust 
to what they will do. 

Upon the whole, Sir, the charge against you 
is of a plain, simple nature: It appears even 


200 LETTERS OF 


upon the face of your own pamphlet. On the 
contrary, your justification of yourself is full of 
subtlety and refinement, and in some places not 
very intelligible. If I were personally your 
enemy, I should dwell, with a malignant plea- 
sure, upon those great and useful qualifications, 
which you certainly possess, and by which you 
once acquired, though they could not preserve 
to you the respect and esteem of your country. 
I should enumerate the honours you have lost, 
and the virtues you have disgraced: but having 
no private resentments to gratify, I think it 
sufficient to have given my opinion of your 
public conduct, leaving the punishment it de- 


serves to your closet and to yourself 
JUNIUS, 


LETTER XIX. 
TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER, 
SIR, 14 August, 1769. 
A CORRESPONDENT of the St. James’s 
Chronicle first wilfully misunderstands Junius, 
then censures him for a bad reasoner*, Junrus 


* The following is a copy of the letter alluded to ;— 
For the St. James’s Chronicle. 
TO JUNIUS. 


SIR, 
Once more Mr. Junius, and but once, let me 


address a few words to you on the subject of your Antiblack- 
_ stonian 


JUNIUS. 201 


does not say that it was incumbent upon Doctor 
Blackstone to foresee and state the crimes, for 
which Mr. Wilkes was expelled. If, by a spirit 
of prophecy, he had even done so, it would 
have been nothing to the purpose. The question 
is, not for what particular offences a person may 


stonian letter, reminding you at the same time, that I am no 
formal defender of the celebrated commentator (who wants no 
such defence), but that it is my sole purpose to shew that you 
are not a competent reader of his works, or that you have 
wilfully and malevolently perverted them. 

You tell Mr. Blackstone that “his attempt to distinguish 
between disabilities that affect whole classes of men, and those 
which affect individuals only, is really unworthy his under- 
standing.” And yet, Sir, that is no new distinction ; it is not 
framed and invented by Mr. Blackstone. Private or personal laws, 
whether inflicting penalties and disabilities, or conferring privi- 
Jeges and immunities, on the particular object of them, and dis- 
tinguished from the general and permanent course of law, have 
been known under all states, and under every legislation, both 
ancient and modern, They are enacted pro re nata, and lose all 
their force as soon as they have operated upon the individuals 
marked out by them. But, “ you have been taught, yon say, 
(yet surely not from the commentaries) that, although the 
instance in which a penal law is exerted, be particular, the 
laws themselves (1 must suppose you to speak of the laws now 
under debate) are general.’ But, before you could write 
thus, what demon of confusion must have seized your noddle! 
Were the votes of the House, by which Sir Robert Walpole, 
Mr. Ward, and many others, have been expelled, and the act 
of parliament which inflicted a perpetual exclusion on the 
S$. S. Directors, general laws? Was the vote to expel Mr. 
Wilkes in the last parliament, a general law? So far from it, 

that 


202 LETTERS OF 


be expelled, but generally whether by the law 
of parliament expulsion alone creates a dis- 
qualification. If the affirmative be the law of 
parliament, Doctor Blackstone might and should 
have told us so. The question is not confined 
to this or that particular person, but forms one 
great general branch of disqualification, too im- 
portant in itself; and too extensive in its conse- 


that its force was quite evaporated, and it could not operate 
even upon him, in the present. Another vote of expulsion 
Was necessary ; and the two votes put together could no more 
expel Mr. Townshend and Mr. Sawbridge from the House of 
Commons, than the decree of the Roman senate, on Catiline 
and the rest of the conspirators, could send our hero and his 
whole gang to Tyburn. 

Acts of attainder come under the same description of 
personal, temporary and particular laws; and that I may 
help you the better to understand this whole matter, and 
shew you, at the same time, the accuracy and consistency of 
Mr. Blackstone, I shall give you his account of them: (Comm. 
b. iy. p. 256.) “ As for acts of parliament to attaint particular 
persons of treason and felony, or to inflict pains and penalties, 
beyond or contrary to the common law, to serve a special 
purpose, I speak not of them; (mark that, Junius,) being to 
all intents and purposes, new laws, made pro re nata, and by 
no means an execution of those already in being.” I shall 
now take my leave of you, having, I hope, sufficiently proved 
to Mr. Baldwin’s Readers, in the instance you have afforded 
me, how prettily sometimes a man may write, without being 
able to read. 


PUBLIUS. 
Middle Temple, August 6, 1769. EDIT. 


JUNIUS. 203 


quences, to be omitted in an accurate work 
expressly treating of the law of parliament. 

The truth of the matter is evidently this. 
Doctor Blackstone, while he was speaking in 
the House of Commons, never once thought of 
his Commentaries, until the contradiction was 
unexpectedly urged, and stared him in the 
face. Instead of defending himself upon the 
spot, he sunk under the charge, in an agony of 
confusion and despair. It is well known that 
there was a pause of some minutes in the House, 
from a general expectation that the Doctor 
would say something in his own defence; but it 
seems, his faculties were too much overpowered 
to think of those subtleties and refinements, 
which have since occurred to him. It was then 
Mr. Grenville received that severe chastisement, 
which the Doctor mentions with so much tri- 
umph. J wsh the honourable gentleman, instead 
of shaking his head, would shake a good argu- 
ment out of it. If to the elegance, novelty, and 
bitterness of this ingenious sarcasm, we add the 
natural melody of the amiable Sir Fletcher Nor- 
ton’s pipe, we shall not be surprised that Mr. 
Grenville was unable to make him any reply. 

As tothe Doctor, I would recommend it to 
him to be quiet. If not, he may perhaps hear 
again from Junius himself: | 

PHILO JUNIUS. 


204 LETTERS OF 


Postscript* to a Pamphlet intitled, « An Answer 
to the Question stated.’ Supposed to be 
written by Dr. Blackstone, Solicitor to the 
Queen, in answer to Junius’s Letter. 


Since these papers were sent to the 
press, a writer in the public papers, who subs 
scribes himself Junius, has made a feint of 
bringing this question to ashort issue. Though 
the foregoing observations contain in my opinion, 
at least, a full refutation of all that this writer 
has ‘offered, I shall, however, bestow a very 
few words upon him. It will cost me very 
little trouble to unravel and expose the sophistry 
of his argument. 

‘ I take the question,’ says he, ‘ to be strictly 
this: Whether or no it be the known established. 
law of parliament, that the expulsion of a mem- 
ber of the House of Commons of itself creates in 
him such an incapacity to be re-elected, that, 
at a subsequent election, any votes given to 
him are null and void; and that any other candi- 
date, who, except the person expelled, has the 
greatest number of votes, ought to be the sitting 
member,’ 


* This is the Postscript, added in a subsequent edition, to 
Sir William Blackstone’s reply to Sir William Meredith’s 
pamphlet, as noticed in note to page 191 of the present 
volume. EDiT. 


JUNIUS. 205 


Waving for the present any objection I may 
have to this state of the question, I shall venture 
to meet our champion upon his own ground; 
and attempt to support the affirmative of it, in 
one of the two ways, by which he says it can be 
alone fairly supported. * If there be no statute,” 
says he, ‘in which the specific disability is clearly 
created, &c. (and we acknowledge there is none) 
the custom of parliament must then be referred 
to, and some case or cases, strictly in point, 
must be produced, with the decision of the 
court upon them.’ Now I assert, that this has 
~ been done. Mr. Walpole’s case is strictly in 
point, to prove that expulsion creates absolute 
incapacity of being re-elected. This was the 
clear decision of the House upon it; and was a 
full declaration, that incapacity was the neces- 
sary consequence of expulsion. The law was 
as clearly and firmly fixed by this resolution, and 
is as binding in every subsequent case of expul- 
sion, as if it had been declared by an express 
statute, “ That a member expelled by a resolu- 
tion of the House of Commons shall be deemed 
incapable of being re-elected.”” Whatever doubt 
then there might have been of the law before 
Mr. Walpole’s case, with respect to the full . 
operation of a vote of expulsion, ‘there can be 
none now. ‘The decision of the House upon 
this case is strictly in point to prove, that ex. 

2 


206 LETTERS OF 


pulsion creates absolute incapacity in law of 
being re-elected. 

But incapacity in law in this instance must 
have the same operation and effect with in- 
capacity in law in every other instance. Now, 
incapacity of being re-elected implies in its very 
terms, that any votes given to the incapable 
person, at a subsequent election, are null and 
void. ‘This is its necessary operation, or it has 
no operation at all. It is vow et preterea nihil. 
We can no more be called upon to prove this 
proposition, than we can to prove that.a dead 
man is not alive, or that twice two are four. 
When the terms are understood, the proposition 
is self-evident. 

Lastly, It is in all cases of election, the 
known and established law of the land, ground- 
ed upon the clearest principles of reason and 
common sense, that if the votes given to one 
candidate are null and void, they cannot be 
opposed to the votes given to another candidate. 
They cannot affect the votes of such candidate 
at all. As they have, on the one hand, no 
positive quality to add or establish, so have 
they, on the other hand, no negative one to 
subtract or destroy. ‘They are, in a word, a 
mere nonentity. Such was the determination 
of the House of Commons in the Malden and 
Bedford elections; cases strictly in point to the 


JUNIUS. 207 


present question, as far as they are meant to be 
in point. And to say, that they are not in 
point, in all circumstances, in those particularly 
which are independent of the proposition which 
they are quoted to prove, is to say no more 
than that Malden is not Middlesex, nor Serjeant 
Comyns Mr. Wilkes. 

Let us see then how our proof stands. Ex- 
pulsion creates incapacity; incapacity annihilates 
any votes given to the incapable person. ‘The 
votes given to the qualified candidate stand 
upon their own bottom, firm and untouched, 
and can alone have effect. This, one would 
think, would be sufficient. But we are stopped 
short, and told, that none of our precedents 
come home to the present case; and are chal- 
lenged to produce “ a precedent in all the 
proceedings of the House of Commons that does 
come home to it, viz. where an expelled member 
has been returned again, and another candidate, 
with an inferior number of votes, has been de- 
clared the sitting member.” 

Instead of a precedent, I will beg leave to 
put a case; which, I fancy, will be quite as de- 
cisive to the present point. Suppose another 
Sacheverel, (and every party must have its 
Sacheverel) should, at some future election, 
take it into his head to offer himself a candidate 
for the county of Middlesex. He is opposed 

7 


208 LETTERS OF 


by a candidate, whose coat is of a. different 
colour; but however of a very good colour. 
The divine has an indisputable majority ; nay, 
the poor layman is absolutely distanced. The 
sheriff, after having had his conscience well 
informed by the reverend casuist, returns him, 
as he supposes, duly elected. The whole House 
is in an uproar, at the apprehension of so 
strange an appearance amongst them. A motion 
however is at length made, that the person was 
incapable of being elected, that his election 
therefore is null and void, and that his com- 
petitor ought to have been returned. No, says 
a great orator, First shew me your law for this 
proceeding. “ Either produce me a statute, 
in which the specific disability of a clergyman 
is created; or produce me a precedent wherea 
clergyman has been returned, and another candi- 
date, with an inferior number of votes, has been 
declared the sitting member.’”’? No such statute, 
no such precedent is to be found. What answer _ 
then is to be given to this demand? The.very_ 
same answer which I will give to that of Junius: 
That there is more than one precedent in the 
proceedings of the House “‘ where. an ins 
capable person has been returned, and, another ’ 
candidate, with an inferior number. of votes, 
has been declared the sitting member ; , and that . 
this is the known and established, lays, in all 


JUNIUS. 209 


cases of incapacity, from whatever cause it may 
arise.” | 

I shall now therefore beg leave to make a 
slight amendment to Juntus’s state of the ques- 
tion, the affirmative of which will then stand 
thus : mit 

“It is the known and established law of 
parliament, that the expulsion of any member 
of the House of Commons creates in him an in- 
capacity of being re-elected; that any votes 
given to him at a subsequent election are, in 
consequence of such incapacity, null and void; 
and that any other candidate, who, except the 
person rendered incapable, has the greatest 
number of votes, ought to be the sitting mem- 
ber.” 

But our business is not yet quite finished. 
Mr. Walpole’s case must have are-hearing. “It 
is not possible,” says this writer, ‘* to conceive 
a case more exactly in point. Mr. Walpole was 
expelled, and having a majority of votes at the 
next election, was returned again. ‘The friends 
of Mr. Taylor, a candidate set up by the. minis- 
try, petitioned the house that he might be the 
sitting member. Thus far the circumstances 
tally exactly, except that our House of Com- 
mons saved Mr. Luttrell the trouble of petition- 
ing. The point of law, however, was the same. 
It came regularly before the house, and it was 

VOL. I. P 


210 LETTERS OF 


their business to determine upon it. They did 
determine it; for they declared Mr. Tagine not 
duly elected.” 


Instead of examining the justness of this 
representation, I shall beg leave to oppose 
against it my own view of this case, in as plain 
a manner and as few words as I am able. 

It was the known and established law of 
parliament, when the charge against Mr. Wal- 
pole came before the House of Commons, that 
they had power to expel, to disable, and to 
render incapable for offences. In virtue of this 
power they expelled him. 

Had they, in the very vote of scilna, 
adjudged him, in terms, to be incapable of being 
re-elected, there must have been at once an end 
with him. But though the right of the house, 
both to expel, and adjudge incapable, was clear 
and indubitable, it does not appear to me, that 
the full operation and effect of a vote of ex- 
pulsion singly was so. ‘The law in this case had 
never been expressly declared. There had been 
no event to call up such a declaration. I trouble 
not myself with the grammatical meaning of the 
word expulsion. I regard only its legal mean- 
ing. This was not, as I think, precisely fixed. 
The house thought proper to fix it, and expli- 
citly to declare the full consequences of their 
former vote, before they suffered these conse- 

7 


JUNIUS. 2h1 


quences to take effect. And in this proceeding 
they acted upon the most liberal and solid prin- 
ciples of equity, justice and law. What then 
did the burgesses of Lynn collect from the se- 
cond vote? Their subsequent conduct will tell 
us: it will with certainty tell us, that they con- 
sidered it as decisive against Mr. Walpole; it 
will also, with equal certainty, tell us, that, up- 
on supposition that the law of election stood 
then, as it does now, and that they knew it to 
stand thus, they inferred, ‘‘ that at a future elec- 
tion, and in case of a similar return, the house 
would receive the same candidate, as duly elect- 
ed, whom they had before rejected.’’ They 
could infer nothing but. this. 

It is needless to repeat the circumstance of 
dissimilarity in the present case. It will be suf- 
ficient to observe, that as the law of parliament, 
upon which the House of Commons grounded 
every step of their proceedings, was clear be- 
yond the reach of doubt, so neither could the 
freeholders of Muddlesex be at a loss to foresee 
what must be the inevitable consequence of 
their proceedings in opposition to it. For upon 
every return of Mr. Wilkes, the house made en- 
quiry, whether any votes were given. to any 
other candidate ? 

But I could venture for the eve aee 
sake, even to give this writer the utmost he 

P2 


212 LETTERS OF 


asks; to allow the most perfect similarity through- 
out in these two cases; to allow, that the law 
of expulsion was quite as clear to the burgesses 
of Lynn, as to the freeholders of Middlesex. 
It will, I am confident, avail his cause but little. 
It will only prove, that, the law of election at 
that time was different from the present law. 
It will prove, that, in all cases of an incapable 
candidate returned, the law then was, that the 
whole election should be void. But now we 
know that this is not law. The cases of Mal- 
den and Bedford were, as has been seen, de- 
termined upon other and more just principles. 
And these determinations are, I imagine, ad- 
mitted on all sides, to be law. 

I would willingly draw a veil over the re- 
maining part of this paper. - It is astonishing, 
it is painful, to see men of parts and ability, 
giving into the most unworthy artifices, and de-. 
scending so much below their true line of charac- 
ter. But if they are not the dupes of their so- 
phistry, (which is hardly to be conceived) let 
them consider that they are something much 
worse. ere yee 
The dearest interests of this country are its 
laws and its constitution.. Against every attack - 
upon these, there will, I hope, be always found 
amongst us the firmest spirit of resistance ; su- 
perior to the united efforts of faction and ambi- 


JUNIUS. 213 


tion. For ambition, though it does not always 
take the lead of faction, will be sure in the end 
to make the most fatal advantage of it, and 
draw it to its own purposes. But, I trust, our 
day of trial is yet far off ; and there is a fund 
of good sense in this country, which cannot long 
be deceived, by the arts either of false reasoning 
or false patriotism. 


LETTER XX. 
TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, ; 8 August, 1769: 


Tue gentleman who has published 
an answer to Sir William Meredith’s pamphlet, 
having honoured me with a postscript of six 
quarto pages, which he moderately calls, be- 
stowing a very few words upon me, I cannot, in 
common politeness, refuse him a reply. The 
form and magnitude of a quarto imposes upon 
the mind; and men, who are unequal to the 
labour of discussing an intricate argument, or 
wish to avoid it, are willing enough to suppose, 
that much has been proved, because much has 
been said. Mine, I confess, are humble labours. 
I do not presume to instruct the learned, but 
simply to inform the body of the people; and I 
prefer that channel of conveyance, which is 


214 LETTERS OF 


likely to spread farthest among them. The ad-- 
vocates of the ministry seem to me to write for 
fame, and to flatter themselves, that the size of 
their works will make them immortal. They 
pile up reluctant quarto upon solid folio, as if 
their labours, because they are gigantic, could 
contend with truth and heaven. 

The writer of the volume in question meets 
me upon my own ground. He acknowledges 
there is no statute, by which the specific disa- 
bility we speak of is created, but he affirms, 
that the custom of parliament has been re- 
ferred to, and that a case strictly in point has 
been produced, with the decision of the court 
upon it.—I thank him for coming so fairly to the 
point. He asserts, that the case of Mr. Wal- 
pole is strictly in point to prove that expulsion 
creates an absolute incapacity of being re-elect- 
ed; and for this purpose he refers generally to 
the first vote of the house upon that occasion, 
without venturing to recite the vote itself. The 
unfair, disingenuous artifice of adopting that 
part of a precedent, which seems to suit his 
purpose, and omitting the remainder, deserves 
some pity, but cannot excite my resentment. He 
takes advantage eagerly of the first resolution, 
by which Mr. Walpole’s incapacity is declared ; 
but as to the two following, by which the can- 
didate with the fewest votes was declared “not 


JUNIUS. 215. 


duly elected,” and the election itself vacated, 
I dare say he would be well satisfied, if they 
were for ever blotted out of the journals of the 
House of Commons. In fair argument, no part 
of a precedent should be admitted, unless the 
whole of it be given to us together. The author 
has divided his precedent, for he knew, that, 
taken together, it produced a consequence di- 
rectly the reverse of that, which he endeavours 
to draw from a vote of expulsion. But what 
will this honest person say, if I take him at his 
word, and demonstrate to him, that the House 
of Commons never meant to found Mr. Walpole’s 
incapacity upon his expulsion only ? What sub- 
terfuge will then remain ? 

Let it be remembered that we are speaking 
of the intention of men, who lived more than 
half a century ago, and that such intention can 
only be collected from their words and actions, 
as they are delivered to us upon record. To 
prove their designs by a supposition of what they 
would have done, opposed to what they actually 
did, is mere trifling and impertinence. The 
vote, by which Mr. Walpole’s incapacity was 
declared, is thus expressed, “ That Robert Wal- 
pole, Esq. having been this session of parliament 
committed a prisoner to the Tower, and expell- 
ed this house for a high breach of trust in the 
execution of his office, and notorious corruption 


216 LETTERS OF 


when secretary at war, was and is incapable of 
being elected a member to serve in this present 
parliament*.” Now, Sir, to my understanding, 
no proposition of this kind can be more evident, 
than that the House of Commons, by this very: 
vote, themselves understood, and meant to de- 
clare, that Mr. Walpole’s incapacity arose from 
the crimes he had committed, not from the pu- 
nishment the house annexed tothem. The high 
breach of trust, the notorious corruption are 
stated in the strongest terms. They do not 
tell us he was incapable because he was ex- 
pelled, but because he had been guilty of such 
offences as justly rendered him unworthy of 
a seat in parliament. If they had intended to 
fix the disability upon his expulsion alone, the 
mention of his crimes in’ the same vote would 


* Tt is well worth remarking, that the compiler of a certain 
quarto, called The case of the late election for the county of Mid-. 
dlesex considered, has the impudence to recite this very vote, 
in the following terms, vide page 11, “ Resolved, that Robert 
Walpole, Esq. having been that session of parliament expell 
the house, was and is incapable of being elected a member to 
serve in that present parliament.”’ ‘There cannot be a stronger 
positive proof of the treachery of the compiler, nor a stronger 
presumptive proof that he was convinced that the vote, if truly 
recited, would overturn his whole argument. auTHoR. 

The editor has already remarked that the pamphlet alluded 
to in the above note of the author was from the pen of Mr. 
Dyson. See note to p. 191, of the present volume. EDIT. _ 


6 


~~ JUNIUS. 217 


“have been highly improper. It could only per- 
plex the minds of the electors, who, if they 
collected any thing from so confused a declara- 
tion of the law of parliament, must have con- 
cluded that their representative had been de- 
clared incapable because he was highly guilty, 
not because he had been punished. But even 
admitting them to have understood it in the 
other sense, they must then, from the very 
terms of the vote, have united the idea of his 
being sent to the Tower with that of his expul- 
sion, and considered his incapacity as the joint 
effect of both*. 


* TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER, 
SIR, 22 May, 1771. 


Very early in the debate upon the decision of 
the Middlesex election, it was observed by Junius, that the 
House of Commons had not only exceeded their boasted pre- 
cedent of the expulsion and subsequent incapacitation of Mr. 
Walpole, but that they had not even adhered to it strictly as 
far as it went. After convicting Mr. Dyson of giving a false 
quotation from the Journals, and having explained the pur- 
pose, which that contemptible fraud was intended to answer, 
he proceeds to state the vote itself, by which Mr. Walpole’s 
supposed incapacity was declared, viz.—* Resolved, that Ro- 
bert Walpole, Esq. having been this session of parliament 
committed a prisoner to the Tower, and expelled this house 
for a high breach of trust in the execution of his office, and 
notorious corruption when secretary at war, was and is in- 
capable of being elected a member to serve in this present 
parliament :”—and then observes that, from the terms of the 

vote, 


218 LETTERS OF 


I do not mean to give an opinion upon the 
justice of the proceedings of the House of Com- 
mons with regard to Mr. Walpole; but certainly, 
if I admitted their censure to be well founded, 
I could no way avoid agreeing with them in the 
consequence they drew from it. I could never 


vote, we have no right to annex the incapacitation to the ex- 
pulsion only, for that, as the proposition stands, it must arise 
equally from the expulsion and the commitment to the Tower. 
I believe, Sir, no man, who knows any thing of Dialectics, or 
who understands English, will dispute the truth and fairness of 
this construction. But Junius has a great authority to support 
him, which, to speak with the Duke of Grafton, I accidentally 
met with this morning in the course of my reading. It con- 
tains an admonition, which cannot be repeated too often. 
Lord Sommers, in his excellent tract upon the rights of the 
people, after reciting the vote of the convention of the 28th of 
January, 1689, viz.—< That King James the second, having 
endeavoured to subvert the constitution of this kingdom by 
breaking the original contract between King and people, and 
by the advice of Jesuits and other wicked persons having vio- 
lated the fundamental laws, and having withdrawn himself out 
of this kingdom, hath abdicated the government, &c,”’—makes 
this observation upon it. “The word abdicated relates to all 
the clauses aforegoing, as well as to his deserting the kingdom, 
or else they would have been wholly in vain.” And that there 
might be no pretence for confining the abdication merely to 
the withdrawing, Lord Sommers farther observes, that King 
James, by refusing.to govern us according to that lary, by which 
he held the crown, implicitly renounced his title to it. 

If, Junrus’s construction of the vote against Mr. Walpole be 
now admitted, (and indeed I cannot comprehend how it can 
honestly be disputed) the advocates of the House of Commons 

r must 


JUNIUS. 219 


have a doubt, in law or reason, that a man, con- 
victed of a high breach of trust, and of a noto- 


must either give up their precedent entirely, or be reduced to 
the necessity of maintaining one of the grossest absurdities 
imaginable, viz. “ That a commitment to the Tower is a 
constituent part of, and contributes half at least to the inca~ 
pacitation of the person who suffers it.” 

I need not make you any excuse for endeavouring to keep 
alive the attention of the public to the decision of the Middle- 
sex election. The more I consider it, the more I am con- 
vinced that, as a fact, it is indeed highly injurious to the rights 
of the people; but that, as a precedent, it is one of the most 
dangerous that ever was established against those who are to 
come after us. Yet I am so far a moderate man, that I verily 
believe the majority of the House of Commons, when they 
passed this dangerous vote, neither understood the question, 
nor knew the consequence of what they were doing. ‘Their 
motives were rather despicable, than criminal, in the extreme. 
One effect they certainly did not foresee. They are now re- 
duced to such a situation, that if a member of the present 
House of Commons were to conduct himself ever so improperly, 
and in reality deserve to be sent back to his constituents with a 
mark of disgrace, they would not dare to expel him ; because 
they know that the people, in order to try again the great 
question of right, or to thwart an odious House of Commons, 
would probably overlook his immediate unworthiness, and re- 
turn the same person to parliament.—But, in time, the pre- 
cedent will gain strength. A future House of Commons will 
have no such apprehensions, consequently will not scruple to 
follow a precedent, which they did not establish. The miser 
himself seldom lives to enjoy the fruit of his extortion ; but 
his heir succeeds to him of course, and takes possession without 
censure. No man expects him to make restitution, and, no 
matter for his title, he lives quietly upon the estate. 

PHILO JUNIUS. 


220 LETTERS OF 


rious corruption, in the execution of a public 
office, was and ought to be incapable of sitting in 
the same parliament. Far from attempting to in- 
validate that vote, I should have wished that the 
incapacity declared by it could legally have been 
continued for ever. 

Now, Sir, observe how forcibly the argument 
returns. The House of Commons, upon the face 
of their proceedings, had the strongest motives 
to declare Mr. Walpole incapable of being re- 
elected. They thought such a man unworthy 
to sit among them. To that point they pro- 
ceeded ;—no farther; for they respected the 
rights of the people, while they asserted their 
own. ‘They did not infer, from Mr. Walpole’s 
incapacity, that his opponent was duly elected ; 
on the contrary, they declared Mr. Taylor “ Not 
duly elected,” and the election itself void. 

Such, however, is the precedent, which my 
honest friend assures us is strictly in point to 
prove, that expulsion of itself creates an inca- 
pacity of being elected. If it had been so, the 
present House of Commons should at least have 
followed strictly the example before them, and 
should have stated to us, in the same vote, the 
crimes for which they expelled Mr. Wilkes ; 
whereas they resolve simply, that, “ having been 
expelled, he was and is incapable.’ In this” 
proceeding I am authorized to affirm, they have 
neither statute, nor custom, nor reason, nor one 


JUNIUS. 22) 
single precedent to support them. On the other 
side, there is indeed a precedent so strongly in 
point, that all the inchanted castles of ministerial 
magic fall before it. In the year 1698, (a period 
which the rankest ‘Tory dare not except against) 
Mr. Wollaston was expelled, re-elected, and ad- 
mitted to take his seat in the same parliament. 
The ministry have precluded themselves from 
all objections drawn from the cause of his ex- 
pulsion, for they affirm absolutely, that expulsion 
of itself creates the. disability. Now, Sir, let 
sophistry evade, let falsehood assert, and impu- 
dence deny—here stands the precedent, a land- 
mark to direct us through a troubled sea of con- 
troversy, conspicuous and unremoved. 

I have dwelt the longer upon the discussion 
of this point, because, in my opinion, it compre- 
hends the whole question. ‘The rest is unworthy 
of notice. Weare enquiring whether incapacity 
be or be not created. by expulsion. In the cases 
of Bedford and Malden, the incapacity of the 
persons returned, was matter of public notoriety, 
for it was created by act of parliament. But, 
really, Sir, my honest friend’s suppositions are 
as unfavourable to him as his facts. He well 
knows that the clergy, besides that they are re- 
presented in common with their. fellow-subjects, 
have also a separate parliament of their own;— 
that their incapacity to sit in the House of Com- 


222 LETTERS OF 


mons has been confirmed by repeated decisions 
of the house, and that the law of parliament, 
declared by those decisions, has been for above 
two centuries notorious and undisputed. The 
author is certainly at liberty to fancy cases, and 
make whatever comparisons he thinks proper; 
his suppositions still continue as distant from 
fact, as his wild discourses are from solid argu- 
ment. 

The conclusion of his Deities is candid to an 
extreme. He offers to grant me all I desire. 
He thinks he may safely admit that the case of 
Mr. Walpole makes directly against him, for it 
seems he has one grand solution in petto for all 
difficulties. Jf; says he, Z were to allow all this, 
it will only prove, that the law of election was dif- 
Jerent, in Queen Anne’s time, from what it ts at 
present. 

This indeed: is more than I expected. “The 
principle, I know, has been maintained in fact, 
but I never expected to see it so formally de- 
clared. What can he mean? does he assume 
this language to satisfy the doubts of the people, 
or does he mean to rouse their indignation; are 
the ministry daring enough to affirm, that the 
House of Commons have a right to make and un- 
make the law of' parliament at their pleasure?— 
Does the law of parliament, which, we are so 
often told is the law of the land ;—does. the com- 


JUNIUS. 223 


mon right of every subject of the realm depend 
upon an arbitrary capricious vote of one branch 
of the legislature The voice of truth and rea- 
son must be silent. 

The ministry tell us plainly that this is no 
longer a question of right, but of power and 
force alone. What was law yesterday is not law 
to-day: and now it seems we have no better 
rule to live by than the temporary discretion and 
fluctuating integrity of the House of Commons. 

Professions of patriotism are become stale and 
ridiculous. For my own part, I claim no merit 
from endeavouring to do a service to my fellow- 
subjects. Ihave done it to the best of my un- 
derstanding ; and, without looking for the ap- 
probation of other men, my conscience is satis- 
fied. What remains to be done concerns the 
collective body of the people. ‘They are now 
to determine for themselves, whether they will 
firmly and constitutionally assert their rights ; 
or make an humble, slavish surrender of them 
at the feet of the ministry. ‘To a generous mind 
there cannot be a doubt. We owe it to our an- 
_ eestors to preserve entire those rights, which 
they have delivered to our care: we owe it to 
our posterity, not to suffer their dearest inherit- 
ance to be destroyed. But if it were possible 
for us to be insensible of these sacred claims, 
there is yet an obligation binding upon ourselves, 


a 


294 LETTERS OF 


from which nothing can acquit us,—a personal 
. interest, which we cannot surrender.» To ali- 
enate even our own rights, would be a crime as 
much more enormous than suicide, as a life of 
civil security and freedom is superior to a bare 
existence ; and if life be the bounty of heaven, 
we scornfully reject the noblest part of the gift, 
if we consent to surrender that certain rule of 
living, without which the condition of human 


nature is not only miserable, but contemptible. 
JUNIUS. 


LETTER XXI. 
TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


SIR, 22 August, 1769. 

I must beg of you to print a few Imes, 

in explanation of some passages in my last letter, 
which I see have been misunderstood. 

1. When I said, that the House of Commons 
never meant to found Mr. Walpole’s incapacity 
on his expulsion only, I meant no more than to 
deny the general proposition, that expulsion 
alone creates the incapacity. If there be any 
thing ambiguous in the expression, I beg leave 
to explain it by saying, that, in my opinion, ex- 
pulsion neither creates, nor in any part, con- 
tributes to create the incapacity in question. 


JUNIUS: 225 


9. I carefully avoided entering into the merits 
of Mr. Walpole’s case. I did not enquire, whe- 
ther the House of Commons acted justly, or whe- 
ther they truly declared the law of parliament. 
My remarks went only to their apparent mean- 
ing and intention, as it stands declared in their 
own resolution. 

3. I never meant to affirm, that a commit- 
ment to the Tower created a disqualification. 
On the contrary, I considered that idea as an 
absurdity, into which the ministry must inevita- 
bly fall, if they reasoned right upon their own 
principles. 

The case of Mr. Wollaston speaks for itself. 
The ministry assert that expulson alone creates 
an absolute, complete incapacity to be re-elected 
to sit in the same parliament. ‘This proposition 
they have uniformly maintained, without any 
condition or modification whatsoever. Mr. Wol- 
laston was expelled, re-elected, and admitted 
to take his seat in the same parliament.—I leave 
it to the public to determine, whether this be a 
plain matter of fact, or mere nonsense and de- 


clamation. 
JUNIUS. 


VOL. I. Q 


236 LETTERS OF 


LETTER XXIL. 


TO THE PRINTER OF THE PUBLIC ADVERTISER. 


4 Sept. 1769. 

ARGUMENT against Facr ; or, A new system of 

political Logic, by which the ministry have 

demonstrated, to the satisfaction of their 

friends, that expulsion alone creates a eom- 

plete incapacity to be re-elected; alias, that 

a subject of this realm may be robbed of his 

common right, by a vote of the House of 
Commons. 


FIRST FACT. 


Mr. Wollaston, in 1698, was expelled, 
re-elected, and admitted to take his seat. 


ARGUMENT. 

As this cannot conveniently be reconciled 
‘with our general proposition, it may be necessary 
‘to shift our ground, and look back to the cause 
“of Mr. Wollaston’s expulsion. From thence it 
“will appear clearly that, “although he was ex- 
pelled, he had not rendered himself a culprit 
too ignominious to sit in parliament, and that 
having resigned his employment, he was no 
longer incapacitated by law.” Vide Serious 
Considerations, page 23. Or thus, ‘*The house, 
somewhat inaccurately, used the word EXPELLED ; 


JUNIUS. 227 


they should have called it A morion.” Vide 
Mungo’s case considered, page 11. Orin short, 
if these arguments should be thought insuflici- 
ent, we may fairly deny the fact. For example ; 
 ] affirm that he was not re-elected. The same 
Mr. Wollaston, who was expelled, was not again 
elected. The same individual, if you please, 
walked into the house, and took his seat there, 
but the same person in law was not admitted a 
member of that parliament, from which he had 
been discarded.” Vide Letter to Junius, page 
12. 


SECOND FACT. 


Mr. Walpole having been committed to the 
Tower, and expelled for a high breach of trust 
and notorious corruption in a public office, was de- 
clared incapable, &c. . 


ARGUMENT. 


From the terms of this vote, nothing can be 
more’ evident than that the House of Commons 
‘meant to fixthe incapacity upon the punishment, 
and not upon the crime; but lest it should ap- 
pear in a different light to weak, uninformed 
persons, it-may be adviseable to gut-the resolu- 
tion, and give it to the public, with all possible 
solemnity, in the following terms, viz. ‘ Re- 
solved, that Robert Walpole, Esq. having been 

Q 2 


228 LETTERS OF 


that session of parliament expelled the house, 
was anid is incapable of being electeda member to 
serve in that present parliament.” Vide Mungo, 
on the use of quotations, page 11. 

N. B. The author of the atiswer to Sir Wil- 
liam Meredith* seems to have made use of 
Mungo’s quotation, for in page 18, he assures 
us, “ That the declaratory vote of the 17th of 
February, 1769, was indeed a literal copy of the 
resolution of the house in Mr. Walpole’s case.’” 


THIRD FACT. 


His opponent, Mr. Taylor, having the small. 
est number of votes at the next election, was de- 
clared NOT DULY ELECTED. 


ARGUMENT. 


This fact we consider as directly in point to 
prove that Mr. Luttrell ought to be the sitting 
member, for the following reasons, ‘¢ The bur- 
gesses of Lynn could draw no. other inference 
from this resolution, but this, that at a future 
election, and in case of a similar return, the 
house would receive the same candidate as duly 
elected, whom they had before rejected.” Vide 
Postscript to Junius, p. 37. Or thus: “ This 
their resolution leaves no room to doubt what 
part they would have taken, if, upon a subse- 


* Sir W. Blackstone. 


JUNIUS. 229 


quent re-election of Mr. Walpole, there had 
been any other candidate in competition with 
him. For, by their vote, they could have no 
other intention than to admit such other candi- 
date.” Vide Mungo’s case considered, p. 39. 
Or take it in this light.—The burgesses of Lynn, 
having, in defiance of the house, retorted upon 
them a person, whom they had branded with the 
most ignominious ‘marks of their displeasure, 
were thereby so well intitled to favour and in- 
dulgence, that the house could do no less than 
rob Mr. Taylor of a right legally vested in him, 
in order that the burgesses might be apprized of 
the law of parliament ; which law the house took 
a very direct way of explaining to them, by 
resolving that the candidate with the fewest 
votes was not duly elected :—‘* And was not 
this much more equitable, more in the spirit of 
that equal and substantial justice, which is the 
end of all law, than if they had violently ad- 
hered to the strict maxims of law?” Vide. Se- 
rious Considerations, p, 33 and 34.“ And if the 
present House of Commons had chosen to follow 
the spirit of this resolution, they would have re- 
ceived and established the candidate. with the 
fewest votes.” Vide Answer to Sir W. M. p. 18. 

Permit me now, Sir, to shew you that the 
worthy Dr. Blackstone sometimes contradicts 


230 LETTERS OF 


the ministry as well as himself. The Speech 
without doors asserts*, page 9, “ That the legal 
effect of an incapacity, founded on a judicial 
determination of a competent court, is pr ecisely 
the same as that of an incapacity created by act 
of parliament.” Now for the Doctor.—The law 
and the opinion of the judge are not alias con- 
vertible terms, or one and the same thing ; since it 
sometimes may happen that the judge may mistake 
the law. Commentaries, Vol. I. p. 71. 

The answer to Sir W. M. asserts, page 23, 
“That the returning officer is not a judicial, but 
a purely ministerial officer. His return is no 
judicial act.’—At ’em again, Doctor. The 
Sheriff, in his judicial capacity is to hear and de- 
termine causes of 40 shillings value and under in 
hus county court. He has also a judicial power 
in divers other civil cases. Fe is likewise to de- 
cide the elections of knights of the shire (sulject 
to the control of the House of Commons ), to judge 
of the qualification of voters, and to return such 
as he shall perenmine to be duly elected. Vide 
Commentaries, page 332. Vol. I. 

What conclusion shall we draw from such 
facts, such arguments, and such contradictions? 
I cannot express my opinion of the present 

* See an extract from this speech, inserted in ue note to 
Letter xvi1. p. 184, Epit. 


JUNIUS. 231 


ministry more exactly than in the words of Sir 
Richard Steele, ‘‘ that we are governed by a set 
of drivellers, whose folly takes away all dignity. 
from distress, and makes even calamity ridicu- 


lous*.’” 
PHILO JUNIUS. 


: LETTER XXII. 


TO HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF BEDFORD. 


MY LORD, 19 Sept. 7169. 
You are so little accustomed to receive: 
any marks of respect or esteem from the publict, 


* In a pamphlet written by Steele upon the issue of the 
South-Sea incorporation, at the period when Walpole was just 
re-emerging from obscurity, to take a more decided and loftier 
management of public affairs. Epit. 

+ The unpopular peace of 1763 was negotiated by the 
Duke of Bedford, and gave rise to a variety of public commo-~ 
tions which at length broke out into acts of open insurrection 
among the Spital-fields weavers, who exclaimed that their trade 
was ruined by its commercial stipulations. 'The rumour be- 
came current that the French court had purchased this peace 
by bribes to the Princess Dowager of Wales, Lord Bute, the 
Duke. of Bedford, and Mr. Henry Fox, afterwards Lord 
Holland: and such was its general belief that the House of 
Commons thought proper to appoint a committee to examine 
into its truth; who traced it chiefly to a Dr. Musgrave, who 
nevertheless does not appear to have suffered from this libellous 
report, which, as he affirmed, he had brought home with him 
from Paris. The public disfayvour with which the terms of the 

peace 


232 LETTERS OF 


that if, in the following lines a compliment or 
expression of applause should escape me, I fear 
you would consider it as a mockery of your es- 
tablished character, and perhaps an insult to 
your understanding. You have nice feelings, 


peace were received, produced a fresh disagreement between 
Lord Bute and the Duke of Bedford on his return home. 

Upon the death of Lord Egremont however, Lord Bute found 
himself compelled once more to apply to the Duke of Bedford 
for his interest, who, conscious of his importance, exacted not 
only from Lord Bute but from the king himself a submission 
to whatever terms he chose to impose, and it was upon this 
occasion that he insisted upon the dismissal of Lord Bute’s 
brother, Mr. Stuart Mackenzie, from his office, although 
Mackenzie had received his majesty’s solemn promise that he 
should preserve it for life. 

Incapable of submitting to such severe treatment, his Majesty 
soon afterwards intreated the Duke of Newcastle and Lord 
Rockingham to rescue him from the Bedford party. They 
consented, and the Duke was again dismissed with contumely. 
When his Majesty became disgusted, as he soon did, with 
this ministry also, Lord Bute applied in the king’s name to 
George Grenville for support, and the Duke of Bedford, who 
was on terms of the closest friendship with him, once more 
strove to enter into the cabinet ; but on this occasion Lord 
-Bute had spirit enough to treat his offer with the utmost con- 
tempt. Lord Chatham was next applied to, who consented to 
take the lead, provided he was allowed the nomination of his 
own friends into certain offices he should designate ; and this 
being granted, to strengthen his own hands, he re-introduced 
the Duke of Bedford, along with his Grace of Grafton :—and 

_on his own resignation, he left them both in the respective 
offices they filled at the time of the address of the present letter 
to the former of these noblemen. EDIT. 


JUNIUS. 233 


my Lord, if we may judge from your resent. 
ments. Cautious therefore of giving offence, 
where you have so little deserved it, I shall leave 
the illustration of your virtues to other hands. 
Your friends have a privilege to play upon the 
easiness of your temper, or possibly they are 
better acquainted with your good qualities than 
Iam. You have done good by stealth. The rest 
is. upon record. You have still left ample room 
for speculation, when panegyric is exhausted. 
You are indeed a very considerable man. 
The highest rank;—a splendid fortune ; and a 
name, glorious till it was yours, were sufficient 
to have supported you with meaner abilities than 
I think you possess. From the first you derived 
a constitutional claim to respect; from the se- 
cond, a natural extensive authority ;—the last 
created a partial expectation of hereditary vir- 
tues. ‘The use you have made of these uncom- 
mon advantages might have been more honour- 
able to yourself, but could not be more in. 
structive to mankind. We may trace it in the 
veneration of your country, the choice of your 
friends, and in the accomplishment of every 
sanguine hope, which the public might have 
conceived from the illustrious name of Russell. 
The eminence of your station gave youa 
commanding prospect of your duty. The road, 
which led to honour, was open to your view. 


234 LETTERS OF 


You could not lose it by mistake, and you 
had no temptation to depart from it by design. 
Compare the natural dignity and importance 
of the richest peer of England ;—the noble 
independence, which he might have maintained 
in parliament, and the real interest and respect, 
which he might have acquired, not only in par- . 
liament, but through the whole kingdom; com- 
pare these glorious distinctions with the ambition 
ef holding a share in government, the emolu- 
ments of a place, the sale of a borough, or the 
purchase of a corporation* ; and though you may 
not regret the virtues, which create respect, you 
may see with anguish, how much real importance 
and authority you have lost. Consider the cha- 
racter of an independent virtuous Duke of Bed- 
ford ; imagine what he might be in this country, 
then reflect one moment upon what you are. If it 
be possible for me to withdraw my attention from 
the fact, I will tell you in theory what such a 
man might be. 

Conscious of his own weight and importance, 
his conduct in parliament would be directed by 
nothing but the constitutional duty of a peer. 
He would consider himself as a guardian of the 
laws. Willing to support the just measures of 
government, but determined to observe the con- 


* See note to p. 237. EpIt. 


JUNIUS. 235 


duct of the minister with suspicion, he would 
oppose the violence of faction with as much 
firmness, as the encroachments of prerogative. 
He would be as little capable of bargaining with 
the minister for places for himself, or his de- 
pendents, as of descending to mix himself in 
the intrigues of opposition. Whenever an im- 
portant question called for his opinion in par- 
liament, he would be heard, by the most profli- 
gate minister, with deference and respect. His 
authority would either sanctify or disgrace the 
measures of government.—The people would 
look up to him as to their protector, and a vir- 
tuous prince would have one honest man in his 
dominions, in whose integrity and judgment he 
might safely confide. If it should be the will 
of Providence to afflict him with a domestic 
misfortune*, he would submit to the stroke, with 
feeling, but not without dignity. He would 
consider the people as his children, and receive 
a generous heart-felt consolation, in the sympa- 
thizing tears, and blessings of his country. 
Your Grace may probably discover some- 
thing more intelligible in the negative part of 
this illustrious character. ‘The man I have de- 
scribed would never prostitute his dignity in 
parliament by an indecent violence either in op- 


* The Duke lately lost his only son, by a fall from his 


horse. r 


3 


236 LETTERS OF 


posing or defending a minister. He-would not 
at one moment rancorously persecute, at another 
basely cringe to the favourite of his Sovereign. 
After outraging the royal dignity with peremp- 
tory conditions, little short of menace and hos- 
tility, he would never descend to the humility 
of soliciting an interview* with the favourite, 
and of offering to recover, at any price, the 
honour of his friendship. Though deceived 
perhaps in his youth, he would not, through 
the course of a Jong life, have invariably chosen 
his friends from among the most profligate of 
mankind. His own honour would have for- 
bidden him from mixing his private pleasures or 
conversation with jockeys, gamesters, blasphe- 
mers, gladiators, or buffoons. He would then 
have never felt, much less would he have sub- 
mitted to the humiliating, dishonest necessity of 
engaging in the interest and intrigues of his de- 
pendents, of supplying their vices, or relieving 
their beggary, at the expence of his country, He 
would not have betrayed such ignorance, or such 
contempt of the constitution, as openly to avow, 
in a court of justice, the t purchase and sale of a 


* At this interview, which passed at the house of the late 
Lord Eglintoun, Lord Bute told the Duke that he was de- 
termined never to have any connection with a man, who had 
so basely betrayed him. 

+ In an answer in Chancery, in a suit against him to re- 
cover a large sum paid him by a person, whom he had un- 

dertaken 


JUNIUS, 237 


borough. He would not have thought it con- 
sistent with his rank in the state, or even with 
his personal importance, to be the little tyrant of 
a little corporation*. He would never have 
been insulted with virtues, which he had la- 
boured to extinguish, nor suffered the disgrace 
of a mortifying defeat, which has made him ri- 


dertaken to return to parliament, for one of his Grace’s bo- 
roughs. He was compelled to repay the money. 

* Of Bedford, where the tyrant was held in such contempt 
and detestation, that, in order to deliver themselves from hini, 
they admitted a great number of strangers to the freedom. 
To make his defeat truly ridiculous, he tried hiswhole strength 
against Mr. Horne, and was beaten upon his own ground, 

_ AUTHOR. 

This contest took place September 4th, 1769, on the elec- 
tion of mayor, bailiffs, and chamberlains for the borough of 
Bedford. His Grace having in vain objected to the making of 
any new freemen, at length prevailed on the corporation to 
allow some of his own particular friends to be put in nomina- 
tion, when about twenty of them were made accordingly. The 

“names of the freemen proposed to be elected on the popular 
side of the question, were then read, and were heard with pro- 
found silence by his Grace, ’till the name of John Horne was 

pronounced, when the Duke expressed himself with great 
bitterness towards that gentleman in particular ; the corpora- 
tion however divided upon the point, and Mr. Horne was 
elected, there being seventeen votes in his favour and eleven 
against him. The candidates for the office of mayor were on 

‘the popular side Mr. Cawne, and on the part of the Duke of 

Bedford, Mr. Richards, the former of whom was elected by 

458 votes against 26. The triumph over his Grace was of 

course complete. EprT. 


4 


238 LETTERS OF 


diculous and contemptible, even to the few by 
whom he was not detested.—I reverence the 
afilictions of a good man,—his sorrows are sacred. 
But how can we take part in the distresses of a 
man, whom we can neither love nor esteem 3 or 
feel for a calamity of which he himself is im- 
sensible ? Where was the father’s heart, when 
he could look for, or find an immediate conso- 
lation for the loss of an only son, in consulta- 
tions and bargains for a place at court, and even 
in the misery of ballotting at the India House ! 

Admitting then that you have mistaken or 
deserted those honourable principles, which 
ought to have directed your conduct; admitting 
that you have as little claim to private affection 
as to public esteem, let us see with what abili- 
ties, with what degree of judgment you have 
carried your own system into execution. A 
great man, in the success and even in the mag- 
nitude of his crimes, finds a rescue from con- 
tempt. Your Grace is every way unfortunate. 
Yet I will not look back to those ridiculous 
scenes, by which in your earlier days, you 
thought it an honour to be distinguished* ; the 


* Mr. Heston Homphrey, a country Attorney, horsewhip- 
pedthe Duke, with equal justice, severity, and perseverance, 
on the course at Litchfield. Righy and Lord Trentham were 
also cudgelled.in a most exemplary manner. This gaye rise\to 
the following story: “ When the late King heard that Sir 

Edward 


JUNTUS. 239 


recorded stripes, the public infamy, your own 
sufferings, or Mr. Rigby’s fortitude. These 
events undoubtedly left an impression, though 
not upon your mind. To such a mind, it may 
‘perhaps be a pleasure to reflect, that there is 
hardly a corner of any of his Majesty’s ‘king- 
doms, except I’rance, in which, at one time or 
other, your valuable life has not been in danger. 
Amiable man! we see and acknowledge the pro- 
tection of Providence, by which you have so 
often escaped the personal detestation of your 
fellow-subjects, and are still reserved for the 
public justice of your country. 

Your history begins to be important at that 
auspicious period, at which you were deputed 
to represent the Earl of Bute, at the court-of 
Versailles. It was an honourable office, and 
executed with the same spirit, with which it was 
accepted. Your patrons wanted an ambassador, 
who would submit to ‘make concessions, without 
daring to insist upon any honourable condition 
for his Sovereign*. Their business required a 


Edward Hawke had given the French a drubbing, his Majesty, 
who had never received that kind of chastisement, was pleased 
to ask Lord Chesterfield the meaning of the word.—Sir, says 
Lord Chesterfield, the meaning of the word—but here comes 
the Duke of mg who is better able to plain it to your 

Majesty than I am.’ 
* Soon after the death of the Duke of Bedford the follow- 
ing paragraph was inserted in the Public Advertiser, and as it 
remained 


240 LETTERS OF 


man, who had as little feeling for his own dignity 
as for the welfare of his country; and they 
found him in the first rank of the nobility. 
Belleisle, Goree, Guadaloupe, St. Lucia, Marti- 
nique, the Fishery, and the Havanna, are 
glorious monuments of your Grace’s talents for 


Temained uncontradicted, there is some reason to believe it 
authentic. As the Duke in this letter is arraigned in the most 
severe terms for the concessions made in negotiating the peace 
of 1763, it is but justice to his Grace, that a circumstance so 
honourable should be more generally known. The paragraph 
runs thus : 

« The following anecdote of the late Duke of Bedford may 
be depended upon as fact: When his Grace negotiated the 
late peace at Paris, he signed the preliminaries with the French 
minister Choiseul, and stipulated no farther for the possessions 
of the East India Company than he was advised to stipulate by 
the court of directors. A gentleman (a Dutch Jew of great 
abilities and character) hearing this, wrote a letter to the Duke 
of Bedford, informing him that the English East India Com- 
pany had materially neglected their own interest, as their chief 
conquests were made subsequent to the period at which they 
had fixed their claim of sovereignty; and if these latter con- 
quests were to be restored, an immense annual revenue would 
necessarily be taken from England. The Duke, struck with 
the force of the fact, yet embarrassed how to act, as prelimi- 
naries were really signed, repaired to Choiseul at Versailles, 
and addressed him thus:—‘ My Lord, I have committed a 
great mistake in signing the preliminaries, as the affair of the 
India possessions must be carried down to our last conquest in 
Asia.” To this Choiseul replied, ‘ Your Grace astonishes 
me ; I thought I had been treating with the minister of a great 
nation, and not with a student in politics, who does not consider 

the 


JUNIUS. ° 241 


negotiation*. My Lord, we are too well ac- 
quainted with your pecuniary character, to 
think it possible that so many public sacrifices 
should have been made, without some private 
compensations. Your conduct carries with it 
an internal evidence, beyond all the legal proofs 
of a court of justice. Even the callous pride of 
Lord Egremont was alarmedt. He saw and_ 


the validity of written engagements.” * Your reproach, my 
Lord, is just,’ returned the Duke, ‘but I will not add treachery 
to negligence, nor betray my country deliberately, because I 
have overlooked her interest unaccountably in a single circum- 
stance ; therefore, unless your Lordship agrees to cede the 
latter conquests in India, I shall return home in twelve hours, 
and submit the fate of my head to the discretion of an English 
parliament.’ Choiseul, staggered at the Duke’s intrepidity, 
complied ; and this country now enjoys above half a million 
annually through the firmness of a man, whom it is even 
patriotism at present to calumniate, but whose virtues have 
never yet received justice from the community. On the 
termination of the affair to his satisfaction, he gave his 
informant, the Dutch gentleman, the warmest recommenda- 
tions to England, who accordingly came over, and receives at 
this moment a pension of 500/. a year from the India Company 
as a reward for his services.”” EDIT. 

* The peace of 1763 was negotiated by his Grace of 
Bedford ; the conquests here specified were relinquished by its 
conditions : and the rumour, as already observed, was in general 
circulation that the Duke and his friends had been bribed 
into so prodigal a surrender. See the note in p. 231 of the 
present volume. EDIT. 

+ This man, notwithstanding his pride and Tory principles, 
had some English stuff in him. Upon an official letter he 

VoL, I. R wrote 


242 LETTERS OF 


felt his own dishonour in corresponding with 
you; and there certainly was a moment, at 
which he meant to have resisted, had not a fatal 
lethargy prevailed over his faculties, and carried 
all sense and memory away with it. 

I will not pretend to specify the secret terms 
on which you were invited to support an *ad- 
ministration which Lord Bute pretended to leave 
in full possession of their ministerial authority, 
and perfectly masters of themselves. He was 
not of a temper to relinquish power, though he 
retired from employment. Stipulations were 
certainly made between your Grace and him, 
and certainly violated. After two years sub- 
mission, you thought you had collected a 
strength sufficient to controul his influence, and 
that it was your turn to be a tyrant, because 
you had been a slave. When you found your- 
self mistaken in your opinion of your gracious 
Master’s firmness, disappointment got the better 
of all your humble discretion, and carried you 
to an excess of outrage to his person, as distant 
from true spirit, as from all decency and re- 
spectt. After robbing him of the rights of a 
wrote tothe Duke of Bedford, the Duke desired to be recalled, 
and it was with the utmost difficulty that Lord Bute could 
appease him. 

* Mr. Grenville, Lord Halifax, and Lord Egremont. 
+ The ministry haying endeavoured to exclude the Dowager 


out of the regency bill, the Earl of Bute determined to dise 
/ miss 


JUNIUS. ~ 243 


King, you would not permit him to preserve 
the honour of a gentleman. It was then Lord , 
Weymouth was nominated to Ireland, and dis- 
patched (we well remember with what indecent 
hurry) to plunder the treasury of the first fruits 
of an employment which you well knew he was 
never to execute*. 

This sudden declaration of war against the 
favourite might have given you a momentary 
merit with the public, if it had either been 
adopted upon principle, or maintained with 
resolution. Without looking back to all your 
former servility, we need only observe your 
subsequent conduct, to see upon what motives 
you acted. Apparently united with Mr. Gren- 
ville, you waited until Lord Rockingham’s feeble 
administration should dissolve in its own weak« 
ness.—The moment their dismission was sus- 
pected, the moment you perceived that another 
system was adopted in the closet, you thought it 
no disgrace to return to your former dependence, 
and solicit once more the friendship of Lord 
Bute. You begged an interview, at which 


miss them. Upon this the Duke of Bedford demanded an 
audience of the King, reproached him in plain terms, with 
his duplicity, baseness, falsehood, treachery, and hypocrisy, 
repeatedly gave him the lie, and left him in convulsions. 
* He received three thousand pounds for plate and equi- 
page money. 
nr 2 


e44 LETTERS OF 


he had spirit enough to treat you with con- 
tempt. 

It would now be of little use to point out, 
by what a train of weak, injudicious measures, 
it became necessary, or was thought so, to call 
you back to a share in the administration*. 
The friends, whom you did not in the last 
instance desert, were not of a character to add 
strength or credit to government; and at that 
time your alliance with the Duke of Grafton 
was, I presume, hardly foreseen. We must 
look for other stipulations, to account for that 
sudden resolution of the closet, by which three 
of your dependantst (whose characters, I think, 
cannot be less respected than they are) were 
advanced to offices, through which you might 
again controul the minister, and probably en- 
gross the whole direction of affairs. 

The possession of absolute power is now 
once more within your reach. ‘The measures 
you have taken to obtain and confirm it, are 
too gross to escape the eyes of a discerning 
judicious ‘prince. His palace is besieged; ° the 
lines of circumvallation are drawing round him; 


* When Earl Gower was appointed president of the coun- 
cil, the King, with his usual sincerity, assured him, that he 
had not had one happy moment, since the Duke of Bedford 


Jeft him. 
+ Lords Gower, Weymouth, and Sandwich, 


JUNIUS. 245 


and unless he finds a resource in his own activity, 
or in the attachment of the real friends of his 
family, the best of princes must submit to the 
confinement of a state prisoner, until your 
Grace’s death, or some less fortunate: event 
shall raise the siege. For the present, you may 
safely resume that stile of insult and menace, 
which even a private gentleman cannot submit 
to hear without being contemptible. Mr. Mac- 
kenzie’s history is not yet forgotten, and you 
may find precedents enough of the mode, in 
which an imperious subject may signify his 
pleasure to his Sovereign. Where will this 
gracious monarch look for assistance, when the 
wretched Grafton could forget his obligations to 
his master, and desert him for a hollow alliance 
with swch a man as the Duke of Bedford! 

Let us consider you, then, as arrived at the 
summit of worldly greatness; let us suppose, 
that all your plans of avarice and ambition are 
accomplished, and your most sanguine wishes 
gratified in the fear, as well as the hatred of the 
people: Can age itself forget that you are now 
in the last act of life? Can grey hairs make 
folly venerable? and is there no period to be 
reserved for meditation and retirement? For 
shame! my Lord: let it not be recorded of you, 
that the latest moments of your life were dedi- 


246 LETTERS OF 


cated to the same unworthy pursuits, the same 
busy agitations, in which your youth and man- 
hood were exhausted. Consider, that, although 
you cannot disgrace your former life, you are 
violating the character of age, and exposing 
the impotent imbecility, after you have lost the 
vigour of the passions. 

Your friends will ask, perhaps, Whither 
shall this unhappy old man retire? Can he re- 
main in the metropolis, where his life has been 
so often threatened, and his palace so often 
attacked? If he returns to Wooburn, scorn and 
mockery await him. He must create a solitude 
round his estate, if he would avoid the face of 
reproach and derision. At Plymouth, his de- 
struction would be more than probable; at 
Exeter, inevitable. No honest Englishman will 
ever forget his attachment, nor any honest 
Scotchman forgive his treachery, to Lord 
Bute. At every town he enters, he must 
change his liveries and his name. Which ever 
way he flies, the Hue and Cry of the country 
pursues him. 

In another kingdom indeed, the blessings 
of his administration have been more sensibly 
felt; his virtues better understood; or at worst, 
they will not, for him alone, forget their hospi- 
tality.—As well might Verrzs have returned to 


JUNIUS. 247 


Sicily. You have twice escaped, my Lord; 
beware of a third experiment. The indignation 
of a whole people, plundered, insulted, and 
oppressed as they have been, will not always be 
disappointed. 

It is in vain therefore to shift the scene. 
You can no more fly from your enemies than 
from yourself. Persecuted abroad, you look 
into your own heart for consolation, and find 
nothing but reproaches and despair. But, my 
Lord, you may quit the field of business, though 
not the field of danger; and though you cannot 
be safe, you may cease to be ridiculous. I 
fear you have listened too long to the ad- 
vice of those pernicious friends, with whose 
interests you have sordidly united your own, and 
for whom you have sacrificed every thing 
that ought to be dear to a man of honour. 
They are still base enough to encourage the 
follies of your age, as they once did the vices 
of your youth. As little acquainted with the 
rules of decorum, as with the laws of mo- 
rality, they will not suffer you to profit by 
experience, nor even to consult the propriety 
of a bad character. Even now they tell you, 
that life is no more than a dramatic scene, 
in which the hero should preserve his con- 
sistency to the last, and that as you lived 

6 


248 LETTERS OF JUNIUS. 


without virtue, you should die without repent- 


ance*, 
JUNIUS. 


* As some apprehension was entertained by the printer, 
that he might be brought before the House of Lords, for 
inserting this letter in his paper, Junrus wrote to him in 
Private Letter, No. 10, as follows:— As to you it is clearly 
my opinion that you have nothing to fear from the Duke of 
Bedford. I reserve some things expressly to awe him, in case 
he should think of bringing you before the House of Lords. 
I am sure I can threaten him privately with such a storm, as 
would make him tremble even in his grave.” See also Vol. IL. 
p. 18. Epir. . 


END OF VOL, I. 


a Se 
G. Woopra.t, Printer, Paternoster-row, London. 


, i letole spears 2k hpi oe ‘ee was 
wk fic gaysit 4 Pa ‘a es ee 
era Se sa 


: » genio overt are Ba ae A RE! i 
nm oa he peateininE: Sraciindl -- ae 


“ee <a wok i warwig | “es mit rhe wi A > aa 
abe Te "e east, Be 
yet Hig: iM iii rit tsi vet seu sare Theme." hee 

eS, F i % : foe aN ty 

‘A = Ke Pe “he r) 


: . ‘ 
‘ d i 
ms ‘ > Al oan ‘9 
wR) an 
x y ies { 
‘ ‘ » - ; 
ee a eee 
’ 
: a j 
w) 
FM, Ah in ™¢ 
obs ; 
y 
ai ' i Cie, 
; ti os - r 4 4 : . : 
‘ 4 F 
bf ‘ + > aed 
J . 
y RBs 5 .. 
ys , 
IN i : a ee 
| n@ : 
1 é . 
oe 7 ak 
¥ - 
i p ‘ 
i, i .. . 
¢ ete. 
beg . 
a ¥ 
‘ « 
- ' 


ae wane te > ve eee Tenens 
ta ha > S| sit a verey 


- mn a "se. J . ‘ —- er 
é _ 
e rs ‘ 
a7) 
WA's 4 :, 
wa # be 
; ‘ . 
. . aan } f 
‘ . “OL ae 
: A ae 1 re io > ee ia or igs 73M 
. ; ; ‘ \ 


etry: Pores Fan fietalal. die 


hy, * 


» ie 


Sees NN 
G porit ( i we Se k 


eae 


; 1) ri 76 * Ces K UNS rE KOM 
UNI, ON  i 


ard é / 
pA f P ¢ . 
Sy a 
f 4° Z 
OKO, 
7 I OT TOT 
CELE : 
> NO 
74 Bi ¢ ‘ 
(Se NaN es %, 
a Tar \ ¢ eee 
é & és 


« CA cx » NANA Cex ee ww 
one . 


om 
2 \ 
* 
< 
Bee xs 
“> Bea 4” %s 
, BO ra 
cS \ i : ~ a : 
iT .. a ¢ 
x \ \ F . 
; Se 
} is 
|} Sees 
[ % 
' & 
P x , 
i ” 
i a 4 
ee 
‘ ” 
ep.‘ 
, ae 
foe 
* { / “¥ 
\Y A Ny 
. 
* 
% d 
>. 
\ 
: 
\ r 
\ %. 
\ - 
| 
XN 
. 
> 
; 
2 
. 4 
\ y 
} 
iNZN ’ 
WX MAA AAAAN , . 
Jag 
’ ; ? 
) at 


ANN Ms } 


) ey 


