Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



JItliSQl 



A a:..:x fZ:..:^ 








iiv 






A 3^ 



i 



WILLIAM COWPER 




LETTERS 

OF 

WILLIAM COWPER 



SDITBD, WITH I 

Rev. W. BENHAM, B.D., F.S.A., 




Hcntsan 

MACMILLAN AND CO. 

1884 



Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh, 




% 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Introduction 



PAGB 

xi 



Letters from London. 

176a. To Clotworthy Rowley . . Se/t. 3 

1763. To Lady Hesketh . ..... Au^. 9 

Letters from Huntingdon. 

1765. To Joseph Hill ..,.■. funf 34 

To Lady Hesketh /I'fy i 

To the Same /ufy 4 

To the Same ...... Se/i. 14 

To Joseph Hill /w(v 3 

To the Same ..... . Au£^. 14 

To the Same Oci. 35 

To Mrs. Cowper Oct. ao 

To Joseph Hill . . . . . May 14 

To the Same /t*^y x6 

Leiters from Olney. 

X767. To Joseph Hill Oci. 10 

X769. To Mrs. Cowper Au£^. 31 

Z770. To Mrs. Madan March 24 

„ To Joseph Hill Sept. 25 

Z776. To the Same Nov. la 

a 



s> 



»» 



>> 



>> 



Z766. 

1767. 



>» 



I 
3 



5 
6 

7 

9 
zz 

J3 
14 
IS 
17 
z8 



ao 
az 
aa 
23 
84 



VI 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 













PAGE 


X778. 


To the Rev. W. Unwin . . . /ufy 18 


25 


1779. 


To the Same .... 






May 26 


26 


>» 


To the Same .... 






July 


27 


>l 


To the Same .... 






July 17 


29 


>l 


To the Same .... 






Sept. 21 


31 


»» 


To Joseph Hill . 






Oct. a 


3a 


»» 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






Oct. 31 


33 


1780. 


To the Same .... 






/%?*. 27 


35 


>l 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






May 3 


37 


l> 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






July 27 


39 


l> 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






Aug: 21 


40 


I78I. 


To the Same .... 






Jan. 21 


42 


1) 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






Fed. 6 


43 


»t 


To Joseph Hill 






Feb. 3 


46 


II 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






Feb. 18 


47 


l> 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






Feb. 27 


48 


l» 


To the Same .... 






May X 


50 


>s 


To Joseph Hill . 






May 9 


53 


1* 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






May 10 


53 


>» 


To the Same .... 






May 23 


55 


» 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






July 12 


59 


If 


To the Same .... 






Aug. x6 


6x 


>» 


To the Same .... 






Aug. 21 


63 


l> 


To the Same . 






Sept. 9 


66 


)} 


To the Same .... 






Sept. 18 


68 


l> 


To the Same .... 






Nov. 7 


70 


II 


To Joseph Hill . 






Nov. 30 


72 


1782. 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






Jan. 5 


72 


II 


To the Same .... 






April X 


75 


>» 


To the Same .... 






Aug. 3 


76 


If 


To Mrs. Nevrton . 






Nov. 23 


79 


II 


To Joseph Hill . 






Dec. 7 


82 


1783- 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






, Jan. 26 


83 


II 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






May 12 


85 


If 


To the Rev. William Bull 






June 3 


87 


II 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






Jufu 8 


88 


II 


To the Same .... 






Aug. 4 


90 


II 


To the Same .... 








93 


11 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






Nov. 30 


95 


1784. 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






. March 21 


98 


I» 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






March 29 


xoo 


»> 


To the Same .... 






April 26 


103 


*t 


To the Rev. W. Unwin 






July 3 


X06 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



VU 



1784. 



n 
If 
1* 
»i 
it 



1785. 



ti 



»» 
1786. 



it 

ti 
>f 

t) 
»t 



To the Rev. J. Newton 

To the Rev. W. Unwin 

To the Same . 

To the Jlev. J. Newton 

To the Same . 

To Mr. Johnson (Printer) 

To the Rev. W, Unwin 

To the Same . 

To the Rev. J. Newton 

To Lady Hesketh . 

To the Same . 

To the Same . 

To the Same . 

To the Rev. J. Newton 

To Lady Hesketh . 

To the Same . 

To Joseph Hill . 

To Lady Hesketh . 

To the Rev. W. Unwin 

To the Same . 



Se^i, z8 

Oct. 20 

Nov, I 

JViw. 27 

Dec, 13 

Dec. x8 

April 30 

Sept. 24 

Oct. Z2 

N(ro. 9 
Feb. 9 
April 10 
May 20 
May 25 
May 29 
June 9 
June 12 

Sept. 24 



PAGE 

Z08 
zxo 

"3 
"5 
X17 

Z20 
121 

i«3 

126 

130 

X36 

13B 

144 

X47 
150 

152 
153 
159 
z6z 



Letters from Weston Underwood. 

1786. To Lady Hesketh Nov. 26 164 

„ To the Same Dec. 4 z66 

„ To Joseph Hill Dec. 9 168 

„ To Lady Hesketh Dec. xi 168 

„ To the Same Dec. 21 X72 

„ To the Same Dec. 24 173 

Z787. To Samuel Rose July 24 177 

„ To Lady Hesketh Sept. 15 X78 

„ To the Same Oct. 5 178 

,, To the Same Nov. 27 x8z 

„ To the Rev. W. Bagot .... Dec. 6 183 

„ To Lady Hesketh Dec. xo 185 

„ To the Same Dec. 19 186 

1788. To the Same Feb. 7 189 

„ To the Same March 3 192 

„ To the Same July 28 194 

„ To Mrs. King Aug. 28 196 

„ To the Same Oct. ix 198 

,, To the Rev. W. Bagot .... Oct, 30 200 



Vlll 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 















PAGE 


1789. 


To Samuel Rose . . • . . /an. 19 


202 


it 


To the Same . 








/an. 24 


203 


f 


To the Rev. W, Bagot 








/an. 29 


203 


1* 


To Samuel Rose . 








/une 5 


ao4 


t> 


To Mrs. Throckmorton 








/ufy 18 


205 


»i 


To Samuel Rose . 








Au^'. 8 


206 


fi 


To Joseph Hill . 








Au^". 12 


207 


1790. 


To Mrs. Bodham . 








/^gi. 27 


208 


t» 


To John Johnson . 








Fed. 28 


210 


»t 


To Lady Hesketh . 








March 22 


312 


» 


To John Johnson . 








March 23 


214 


>> 


To the Same . 








A^il 17 


216 


i» 


To Mrs. Throckmorton 








May 10 


217 


•I 


To Lady Hesketh , 








May 28 


319 


i» 


To the Same . 








/ttne 3 


2x9 


>) 


To the Rev. W. Bagot 








/une 22 


320 


«» 


To John Johnson . 








/uly 31 


220 


»• 


To Mrs. Bodham . 








Sept. 9 


222 


!♦ 


To Samuel Rose . 








Sept. 13 


223 


• > 


To Joseph Hill . 








Sept. 17 


224 


1791- 


To John Johnson . 








/an. 21 


225 


• > 


To the Same . 








Feb. 27 


226 


t> 


To the Rev. Mr. HurdL 


3 






March 6 


227 


>> 


To Joseph Hill . 








March 10 


228 


• t 


To the Rev. W. Bagot 








March 18 


229 


l> 


To Mrs. I'hrockmorton 






April X 


231 


t> 


To the Rev. Mr. Buchanan . 






May n 


231 


• > 


To John Johnson . 






/une 1 


333 


• • 


To Lady Hesketh . 






/line 23 


232 


»* 


To the Same . 






/uly II 


234 


«> 


To the Rev. William Bull 






/uly 27 


237 


»> 


To John Johnson . 






Aug. 9 


238 


• t 


To Lady Hesketh . 






Aug. 30 


238 


I) 


To Samuel Rose . 






Sept. 14 


241 


»• 


To Mrs. King 






Oct. 21 


243 


«t 


To Joseph Hill . 






Nov. 14 


243 


• » 


To Samuel Rose . 






Dec. 21 


244 


1792, 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






Feb. 20 


24s 


»* 


To John Johnson . 






March 11 


247 


»> 


To the Rev. J. Newton 






March 18 


248 


»» 


To the Rev. Mr. Hurdis 






> March 23 


251 


ft 


To Lady Hesketh . 






March 25 


252 


ir- 


To William Hayley , 








April 6 


253 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



1792. To the Same . 

Ta Lady Hesketh . 

To William Hayley 

To the Same . 

To the Same . 

To the Rev. William Bull 

To William Hayley . 





IX 




PAGB 


June 5 


253 


June II 


256 


June 19 


»58 


July IS 


259 


July 22 


261 


July 25 


262 


July 29 


264 



Letters from Eartham. 



1792. 



To the Rev. Mr. Greathecd 
To Mrs. Courtenay . 
To Lady Hesketh . 
To the Rev. Mr. Hurdis 
To Lady Hesketh , . 
To Mrs. Courtenay 



Aug. 6 
Aug, 12 
Aug. 26 
Aug. 26 
Sept. 9 
Sept. xo 



266 
267 
269 
271 
27a 
274 



Letters from Weston Underwood. 



1792. 

>i 
»> 

}> 

1793- 
If 
>» 
>» 
sr 
n 

»> 
>> 
>) 



To William Hayley . 

To the Same . 

To John Johnson . 

To Samuel Rose . . 

To the Rev. J. Newton 

To John Johnson . 

To Lady Hesketh . 

To John Johnson . 

To Lady Hesketh . 

To the Rev. Mr. Hurdis 

To the Rev. John Johnson 

To the Rev. W. Bagot . 

To Thomas Park . 

To the Rev. J. Newton 

To Thomas Park . 

To Mrs. Charlotte Smith 

To the Rev. John Johnson 

To Mrs. Courtenay 

To William Hayley . 

To Mrs. Courtenay 

To Samuel Rose 



Sept. 21 


277 


Oct. 2 


278 


Nov. 5 


280 


Nov. 9 


28X 


Nov. 11 


s8a 


Nov. 20 


284 


Dec. 1 ■ 


285 


Jan. 31 


288 


Feb. 10 


289 


Feb. 23 


290 


April II 


29X 


May 4 


a93 


May 17 


293 


June 12 


29s 


Julyrs 


296 


July 25 


298 


Aug. 2 


299 


Aug. 20 


300 


Oct. s 


30X 


Nov. 4 


30a 


Dec. 8 


304 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Letters from Norfolk. 



ti 



» 



1795. To the Rev. Mr. Buchanan . 

To Lady Hesketh, Cheltenham 

To the Same, Cheltenham 
Z796. To the Same, at Bath . 
„ To the Same . 

To the Same . 

To the Same . 

To the Rev. J. Newton 

To Lady Hesketh . 

To the Rev. J. Newton 



1797. 
1798. 



»» 



>t 



1799- 





PAGE 


Se/t. S 


305 




306 


Se/i. 96 


308 


/an. 32 


3to 


Fed. 19 


3" 


May 15 


31a 


June t 


313 


July ag 


313 


Oct. 13 


314 


A^ril XX 


315 



INTRODUCTION. 



Two men of mark in English Literature, Southey and 
Alexander Smith, have called Cowper "the best of 
English letter-writers," and few will be found to chal- 
lenge this opinion. 

The charm of Cowper's letters, like that of his poetry, 
lies first of all in his nntnri^Jppgg and sing eiityr* He 
writes simply because he has something to say, or be- 
cause he loves his correspondent, and has no idea of 
posing for effect. He never dreamt of his letters being 
published when he wrote them. It was so with his first 
poems. He wrote to drive away melancholy, or to amuse 
his fHends, and carelessly sent the last piece written to 
whatever friend he happened to be addressing, and was 
nearly fifty years old before the idea of publishing any of 
these pieces was suggested to him. 

His letters, then, are the simple statement of whatever 
he has in his mind ; written in pure and beautiful 
English ; full of the information and refined taste of a 
well-read man; overflowing now with ^Juimoui^ now 
with H AAp y^iigiryy g feeling, for both were natural to him. 
It follows, as a matter of course, that they are deeply 
interesting as materials for the biography of the poet, 
though here one caution is needed. The letters will not 



Xll LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

iinfrequently give us a wrong impression if we forget his 
peculiar circumstances. We may read one coi^phed 
in terms of the deepest melancholy, and imagine that 
there was no sunshine in his life. That was not so. He 
set down on paper truly enough the sad thoughts of the 
moment, but he was also able, at all events for many 
years, to put such thoughts away by an effort, and to be 
quietly and tranquilly content and cheerful when the fit 
was over. His correspondence with Mr. Newton, for 
example, is nearly all of a gloomy character ; not so that 
with his cousins, L#ady Hesketh and John Johnson. I 
have elsewhere, I think, shown that Mr. Newton's influ- 
ence upon his life, though incontestably well-intentioned, 
was most disastrous. Cowper always writes as though 
talking personally to whomsoever he is addressing, and 
the imaginary presence of Newton before him is sure to 
depress him at once, and to bring thunderclouds into his 
sky. And as years went on, Newton, with a perversity 
that angers one all the more because of his good inten- 
tions, seemed to take care that the gloom should not be 
dispelled, by writing from time to time to scold the poor, 
delicate- nerved, timid poet for seeking to cast away his 
cares. 

But Cowper*s letters are far more than contributions 
towards his biography. The graceful affectionateness, 
the shrewd estim ate of men and things, the genuine 
love of fun and appreciation oTff in others, all contribute 
^o make his correspondence delightful. In fact, to many 
readers his prose will be more agreeable than his poetry, 
though, as in many like cases, his letters were only pub- 
lished because his poetry had made him famous. 

Cowper's letters have been preserved from a date much 
earlier than that of his appearance before the world as a 
poet. His friends cherished them, feeling that there 
was a peculiar charm about them, and after his death 



INTRODUCTION. Xlli 

in 1800 they were published in a piecemeal fashion by 
several rival editors, each of whom had some portions, 
and no one the whole. In consequence of which no 
edition to this day has all the letters complete, or in 
chronological sequence. Thus some of the most inter- 
esting of them were out of Southey's reach until he had 
finished his edition of the poet's life and works, and 
these he had therefore to place in a supplementary 
volume. This is not the only drawback to the multiform 
character of the editions. One of the editors, Grimshawe, 
took upon him to judge on religious grounds what 
portions of the letters were edifying and what not, and 
he has in consequence frequently cut out paragraphs, 
apparently only because they are amusing. Then again, 
not improperly, it was judged well to leave blanks in 
many cases for the names of people who were living at 
the time of publication. There is no such necessity now, 
and in the present selection I have collated the letters 
with the original manuscripts where they have been 
within my reach, and restored n\uch which had been 
suppressed. 

The arrangement followed is the simplest, namely, the 
chronological order. To the Globe Edition of his poems 
I have prefixed a full biography of Cowper, and there- 
fore refer to that for the details; but for purposes of 
convenient reference, I have set down the main heads of 

r 

the poet's life, and given short notices of the friends to 
whom letters are addressed. 

I. He was born at Berkhamstead Rectory in 1731 ; 
educated first at a village school in Hertfordshire, then 
at Westminster; entered of the Middle Temple, 1748; 
called to the Bar, 1754; lived in London some years, 
holding a Commissionership worth ;f6o a year, and^ 
writing a few magazine papers ; was appointed to a 



xiv LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

clerkship of the Journals of the House of Lords, but pre- 
vented from entering on the office by an attack of in- 
sanity, and was sent in December 1763 to Dr. Cotton's 
Asylum at St. Albans. 

Clotworthy Rowley^ of Tendring Hall, near Stoke-by- 
Nayland, was a friend and fellow -Templar. The two 
first of Cowper's extant letters are addressed to him. 
The first is in Latin ; the second is given in the present 
volume. As in the case of so many of his friends, 
Cowper ceased all correspondence with him for many 
years. It was renewed through Rowley's returning 
some books which Cowper had lent him twenty-five 
years previously. 

Harriet^ Lady Hesketh^ the wife of Sir Thomas Hesketh, 
was the daughter of Ashley Cowper, the poet's uncle, and 
the sister of Theodora, his youthful love. On his first 
leaving London he wrote several letters to Lady Hesketh, 
chiefly on religious subjects. The tone of them found 
no sympathy with her, and all correspondence between 
them ceased for twenty years. Then to the poet's over- 
flowing delight she began it again (see pp. 9 and 130, and 
Globe, p. lix), 

II. He remained at Dr. Cotton's until his recovery in 
June 1765, when he removed to Huntingdon, feeling that 
London was not a fitting place for him to live in, and 
desiring also to be within reach of his brother John at 
Cambridge. Here he began his acquaintance with the 
Unwin family, consisting of the Rev. Morley Unwin, 
Mary, his wife, and William and Mary, their children. 
They lived together at Huntingdon until Mr. Unwin 
was killed in 1767, then Cowper and Mrs. Unwin re- 
moved to Olney. The son took orders, and was soon 
appointed to a country living ; the daughter married Mr. 
Powley of Dewsbury. 



INTRODUCTION. XV 

III. The third division of his life is that of his resi- 
dence at Olney, lasting from Michaelmas 1767 until 1786. 
His first letters from Olney are some of the most delight- 
ful of all, amusing notes of what he has been reading, and 
accounts of his out-door occupations. They are addressed 
to Lady Hesketh, Hill, Mrs. Cowper, and Unwin. 

Joseph Hill was a school-fellow at Westminster, " no 
otherwise known," says Sou they, '* than as having been 
Cowper's correspondent and constant friend through lifci 
but this is to be well known." He proved one of the 
most valuable friends that the poet had, for he was a man 
of sound sense and good business habits, as well as of 
playful wit ; and at a time when Cowper would other- 
wise have come to ruin through straitened means, joined 
to want of management, Hill took charge of his finances. 
He was a successful lawyer, residing in George Street, 
Westminster, and became secretary to Thurlow when the 
latter became Lord Chancellor. To Hill Cowper ad- 
dressed some of the brightest of his letters. Many of 
them are on business affairs, yet it will b^ seen that he 
is able to combine with business rich pla3rful humour. 
As was the case with most of his friends, he nicknames 
him. Sometimes it is plain "Joe," but it is frequently 
" Sephus," short for " Josephus." He rarely writes to 
him without a broad hint that he would like a parcel of 
fish, for which he had always an extraordinary fond- 
ness. 

General and Mrs. Cowper were both of them the 
poet's first cousins, for the latter, Frances Maria Madan, 
was the daughter of John Cowper's sister, and she 
married her cousin. Her brother, Martin Madan, finds 
much mention in the poet's life, as being the author of 
Thelyphthora {Globe^ xliii). Mrs. Cowper's religious 
views were more in harmony with Cowper's than Lady 
Hesketh's were. It may be remembered that the General 



xvi LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and Lady Hesketh joined in making him an allowance 
when he came out of Dr. Cotton's asylum. The General, 
however, died in 1769. 

William Cawthome Univin was the son of the Rev. 
Morley and Mary Unwin. Readers of the life will 
remember how, when a young man, he made Cowper's 
acquaintance at Huntingdon, how he introduced him to 
his parents and sister, and how the acquaintance ripened 
into a lifelong friendship. William Unwin in course of 
time became rector of Stock in Essex, and it is hither 
that most of Cowper's letters to him are addressed. He 
died at Winchester, at the early age of forty-one, in 
December 1786. 

But the Olney life is broken into two distinct portions 
by a fresh interval of insanity. Threatenings of this 
appeared the year following his move to Olney, which 
developed into an acute attack in 1772, and lasted for 
many months. He wrote no letters between 1772 and 
1776. 

The curate in charge of Olney when Cowper b^an to 
reside there was the Rev. John Newton^ who died in 1807. 
For the main incidents of his life see the Globe Cowper^ p. 
XXXV. He left Olney in September 1779 for the rectory of 
St. Mary Woolnoth, and then Cowper's correspondence 
with him begins (see p. 37). The reference in this letter 
to Lord Bute's gardener is explained by the fact that Lord 
Bute lived at Luton, not far from Olney. In the first 
portion of the Olney life Cowper began the Olney 
Hymns in conjunction with Mr. Newton, but it was 
in the second that his fame as a poet begins. He had 
been in the habit of writing short poems and sending 
them to his friends, but in 1780 Mrs. Unwin urged him 
to try his hand at some larger work. Hence grew his 
first published volume, which appeared in 1782. Three 
years later he published The Task, a work which placed 



INTRODUCTION. XVll 

him by the common consent of his contemporaries at the 
head of the poets of his age. A curious illustration of 
his reserve with his intimate friends will be found in his 
correspondence with Newton and Unwin about these two 
volumes of poetry. In the case of the first volume he 
arranged with Newton for the publication, and said not 
a word to Unwin of what he was doing. At p. 50 will 
be found the letter in which he at length told him, and 
the awkwardness he feels is quite apparent. Evidently 
Mrs. Unwin has urged him to tell, and he is conscious 
that he has not treated a tried friend with frankness. 
Then on p. no we find him reversing his former pro- 
ceeding by secretly n^otiating with Unwin for the 
publication of his second volume. The Tasky and exclude 
ing Newton from his confidence. Both friends in turn 
were hurt, but Unwin shows to advantage in the course 
which each of them took, though in both cases peace was 
restored after a little while. 

The other correspondents of the Olney period were the 
four following : — 

The Rev. William Bull was an Independent minister 
of Newport Pagnell, about five miles from Olney. To 
his care Newton had commended Cowper on leaving for 
St. Mary Woolnoth. It w^as he who gave the poet Madame 
Guyon*s poems, which he has translated so gracefully. 

Samuel Rose^ the son of Dr. William Rose, a school- 
master at Chiswick, coming up from Glasgow University 
to London, turned aside for the express purpose of seeing 
the poet of Olney, and bringing to him the thanks of 
some Scotch professors. The poet took warmly to him, 
and wrote him several judicious letters of advice about 
his studies. Rose gave him a copy of the newly pub- 
lished poems of Burns, which he read through twice to his 
great delight. The friendship between them became so 
cordial that he stood godfather to one of Rose's children ; 



XVlll LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and when a pension of ;f 300 a year was conferred upon 
him by the Crown, Rose was appointed his trustee. 

John^ the son of Sir Robert Throckmorton, lived at 
Weston Underwood. The family, being Roman Catholics, 
were regarded with great suspicion by their neighbours, 
and some even insulted them. Cowper, however, having 
received civilities from them, was very grateful, and, to 
Newton's disgust, became very intimate with the family. 
Several of his smaller poems are on incidents connected 
with them. He used playfully to call Mr. Throckmorton 
and his wife **Mr. and Mrs. Frog." Sir Robert died at 
the age of eighty-seven in 1 791, and his son, on succeed- 
ing to the baronetcy, went to live at his father's old 
house in Oxfordshire. 

George Courtenay was the younger brother of Sir John 
Throckmorton, but had changed his name. He came 
to live at Weston when his brother left it. His wife is 
the "Catharina" of the poet They were both as kind 
to him as their predecessors had been. Mrs. Courtenay 
had proved for some time one of his most ardent helpers 
by making a fair copy of his Homer, and he named her 
**my lady of the ink-bottle." 

IV. The renewal of correspondence with Lady Hesketh 
led to her visiting him at Olney, and this again to the 
removal of the poet and Mrs. Unwin in November 178^ 
from Olney to Weston Underwood. The change was 
partly owing to the inconvenience and unhealthiness of 
their Olney abode, partly to their desire to be near their 
friends, the Throckmortons. But the remove had hardly 
been made when the poet and his faithful companion were 
shocked by the sudden death of Unwin. The last letter 
to him will be found at p. 161, and it has a painful interest 
independently of this. The " young gentleman " referred 
to is Henry Thornton, with whom Unwin was travelling 



INTRODUCTION. XIX 

as tutor when he caught fever and died at Winchester, 

But the main subject of the letter is the gentle poet's 

anger at Newton's cruel and unprovoked conduct in 

directly charging him with ** leading a life unbecoming 

the gospel " because he had been intimate with the 

Throckmortons, had invited the priest — "the Padre," as 

Cowper generally calls him — to dinner, and had walked 

out with his cousin on a Sunday evening. (jThe death of 

Unwin had an unfavourable effect on Cowper's health, 

though he had a remarkable power of shaking off 

depression. He had another fit of fierce insanity for six 

nK>nths in 1787^ He recovered from that, but remained in 

a state of melancnoly, which, however, he still more or less 

shook off when writing to most of his fiiends, though never 

to Newton (see, for examples, the letters between pp. 280 

and 284). In 1792 he made a new acquaintance, which 

proved a very important one. 

Wm. Hayleyt his future biographer, a native of Chester, 

was bom in 1745, ^^^ ^^^ ^^ 1820. He first made 

Cowper's acquaintance through hearing that the latter 

was engaged on an edition of Milton*s works. The 

circumstances are told in the following letter, which, as it 

forms the opening of a very important friendship, we 

quote at length : — 

" February 7, 1792, 
" Eartham, near Chichester. 

"Dear Sir — I have often been tempted, by affec- 
tionate admiration of your poetry, to trouble you with a 
letter ; but I have repeatedly checked myself, in recollect- 
ing that the vanity of believing ourselves distantly related 
in spirit to a man of genius, is but a sorry apology for 
intruding on his time. 

"Though I resisted my desire of professing myself 
your friend, that I might not disturb you with intrusive 
familiarity, I cannot resist a desire, equally affectionate. 



XX LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

of disclaiming an idea which I am told is imputed to me, 
of considering myself, on a recent occasion, as an anta- 
gonist to you. Allow me, therefore, to say, I was solicited 
to write a Life of Milton, for Boydell and Nicholl, before 
I had the least idea that you and Mr. Fuseli were con- 
cerned in a project similar to theirs. When I first heard 
of your intention, I was apprehensive that we might 
undesignedly thwart each other ; but on seeing your 
proposals, I am agreeably persuaded that our respective 
labours will be far from clashing, as it is your design to 
illustrate Milton with a series of notes, and I only mean 
to execute a more candid life of him than his late bio- 
grapher has given us, upon a plan that will, I flatter 
myself, be particularly pleasing to those who love the 
author as we do. 

"As to the pecuniary interest of those persons who 
venture large sums in expensive decoration of Milton, I 
am persuaded his expanding glory will support them all. 
Every splendid edition, where the merits of the pencil 
are in any degree worthy of the poet, will, I think, be 
secure of success. I wish it cordially to all ; as I have 
great affection for the arts, and a sincere regard for those 
whose talents reflect honour upon them. 

"To you, my dear sir, I have a grateful attachment, 
for the infinite delight which your writings have afforded 
me; and if, in the course of yoiu: work, I have any 
opportunity to serve or oblige you, I shall seize it with 
that friendly spirit which has impelled me at present to 
assure you, both in prose and rhyme, that I am your 
very cordial admirer, W. Hayl^y. 

** P.S, — I wrote the enclosed sonnet on being told that 
our names had been idly printed together, in a newspaper, 
as hostile competitors. Pray forgive its partial defects for 
its affectionate sincerity. 



INTRODUCTION. xxi 

** From my ignorance of your address, I send this to 
your booksellers, by a person commissioned to place my 
name in the list of your subscribers ; and let me add, if 
you ever wish to form a new collection of names for any 
similar purpose, I entreat you to honour me so far as to 
rank mine, of your own accord, among those of your 
sincerest friends. Adieu ! " 

SONNET 
TO WILLIAM COWPER, ESQ. 

ON HEARING THAT OUR NAMES HAD BEEN IDLY MEN- 
TIONED IN A NEWSPAPER AS COMPETITORS IN A 
LIFE OF MILTON. 

Cowper I delight of all who justly prize 

The splendid magic of a strain divine, 
That sweetly tempts th' enlighten'd soul to rise, 
As sunbeams lure an eagle to the skies. 

Poet I to whom I feel my heart incline 
As to a friend endear'd by virtue's ties ; 

Ne'er shall my name in pride's contentious line 

With hostile emulation cope with thine ! 
No ! let us meet, with kind fraternal aim, 

Where Milton's shrine invites a votive throng. 
With thee I share a passion for his fame, 
His zeal for truth, his scorn of venal blame : 

But thou hast rarer gifts, — to thee belong 

His harp of highest tone, his sanctity of song. 

This letter lay at the booksellers some weeks before 
Cowper received it, but as soon as he had done so, he 
wrote a very genial letter back, which Hayley has not 
published. His first published letter to his brother poet 
will be fotlnd at p. 253. Very shortly afterwards Hayley 
came to visit him at Weston, and during this visit Mrs. 
Unwin was seized with paralysis (see p. 255). 

At the end of July following Cowper visited Hayley at 
Eartham, a "tremendous exploit," as he well called it, 

b 



xxil LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

considering the recluse life that he had been leading for 
twenty years. Hayley returned more than once to Weston, 
and his advice and assistance proved most valuable when 
the heavy gloom was settling down finally on the mind of 
the poor poet. 

Charlotte Smith was introduced to the poet at Eartham, 
who delighted in her novels. The allusion at the end of 
the letter on p. 298 is to her pleasant story of The Old 
Manor-House. That which is spoken of as dedicated to 
him is The Emigrants. She died in 1806. 

Mrs. King of Pertenhall, in Cambridgeshire, had been a 
friend of his brother John, and in the b^inning of 1788 
sent to him some unpublished poems of his in his own 
handwriting. They were gladly welcomed, and produced 
some very interesting letters. The poet, as will be seen, 
expresses much anxiety about her health, which was well 
founded, for she died in 1793. 

Rev. Walter Bagot and four of his brothers had been 
school -fellows of Cowper at Westminster, "and very 
amiable and valuable boys they were," writes the poet. 
Correspondence, however, had ceased between the friends 
until Cowper began to translate Homer, when Bagot 
called upon him at Olney, and brought a subscription for 
;^20 towards the undertaking. The brother so frequently 
referred to by Cowper was Lewis, who became succes- 
sively Bishop of Bristol, Norwich, and St. Asaph. 

Rev. John Johnson — not to be confounded with Cowper's 
publisher of the same name — was grandson of his mother's 
brother, Roger Donne, rector of Catfield. Cowper had 
heard nothing of his mother's relations since his childhood, 
until John Johnson, a young man of twenty, a Cambridge 
undergraduate, called on him in 1790, and caused him 
as much delight as the renewed correspondence with 
Lady Hesketh had done. Cowper's letters to him are 
particularly charming, because of the sympathy they dis- 



INTRODUCTION. XXlll 

play with the young man's love of fun and frolic, as well 
as of the wisdom of the advice which he gives concerning 
the sacred profession for which Johnson is preparing. 
From their first introduction Cowper clung to him, and 
his vacations were spent at Weston. 

Mrs, Bodhaniy Cowper's first cousin, and his playfellow 
in youth, was brought to renew the acquaintance through 
Johnson, who returned from his first visit to Weston with 
rapturous accounts of his reception there. It was this 
account which led her to send him with an affectionate 
letter his mother*s picture. Of the lovely poem thereby 
produced we need not speak here. 

The Rev, J. Hurdis was rector of Bishopstone in Sussex 
(his birthplace), and professor of poetry at Oxford, He 
was author of The Village Curate^ and a tragedy on Sir 
Thomas More. 

The Rev, J, Buchanan, curate of Ravenstone, near 
Weston. The poem alluded to on p. 231 was The 
Four Ages of Man, which Buchanan had sketched out 
as a su^estion to him (see Globe, p. Ixvii). 

Rev, W, Greathead was a Dissenting minister at New- 
port Pagnell. 

V. In July 1795 his cousin, Mr. Johnson, finding Cowper 
growing daily more wretched, removed the two invalids 
to Norfolk, in hope that change to a more bracing climate 
might benefit them. How futile this hope was is shown 
in the whole of the Norfolk letters. No light seems to 
gleam through the darkness. They went first to 
Tuddenham, then to Mundsley, then to Dereham, where 
in December 1796 Mrs. Unwin died. Three years and a 
half later Cowper was buried by her side. 



COWPER'S LETTERS. 



LETTERS WRITTEN IN LONDON, 

1762. 

TO CLOTWORTHY ROWLEY. 

September 9i 1762. 
Dear Rowley — ^Your letter has taken me just in the 
crisis ; to-morrow I set off for Brighthelmstone, and there 
I stay till the winter brings us all to town again. This 
world is a shabby fellow, and uses us ill ; but a few years 
hence there will be no difference between us and our 
fathers of the tenth generation upwards. I could be as 
splenetick as you, and with more reason, if I thought 
proper to indulge that humour ; but my resolution is (and 
I advise you to adopt it), never to be melancholy while I 
have a hundred pounds in the world to keep up my 
spirits. God knows how long that will be ; but in the 
meantime lo Triumphel If a great man struggling with 
misfortune is a noble object, a little man that despises 
them is no contemptible one ; and this is all the philo- 
sophy I have in the world at present. It savours pretty 
much of the ancient Stoic ; but till the Stoics became 
coxcombs they were, in my opinion, a very sensible sect 
S> B 



2 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

If my resolution to be a great man was half so strong 
as it is to despise the shame of being a little one, I should 
not despair of a house in Lincoln's Inn Fields, with all 
its appurtenances ; for there is nothing more certain, and 
I could prove it by a thousand instances, than that every 
man may be rich if he will. What is the industry of half 
the industrious men in the world but avarice ? and, call it 
by which name you will, it almost always succeeds. But 
this provokes me, that a covetous dog, who will work by 
candle-light in the morning, to get what he does not 
want, shall be praised for his thriftiness, while a gentle- 
man shall be abused for submitting to his wants, rather 
than work like an ass to relieve them. Did you ever in 
your life know a man who was guided in the general 
course of his actions by anything but his natural temper ? 
And yet we blame each other's conduct as freely as if that 
temper was the most tractable beast in the world, and we 
had nothing to do but to twitch the rein to the right or 
the left, and go just as we are directed by others I All 
this is nonsense, and nothing better. 

There are some sensible folks who, having great estates, 
have wisdom enough too to spend them properly ; there 
are others who ar6 not less wise, perhaps, as knowing 
how to do without them. Between these two degrees 
are they who spend their money dirtily, or get it so. If 
you ask me where they are to be placed who amass much 
wealth in an honest way, you must be so good as to find 
them first,, and then I'll answer the question. Upon the 
whole, my dear Rowley, there is a degree of poverty that 
has no disgrace belonging to it ; that degree of it, I mean, 
in which a man enjoys clean linen and good company ; 
and if I never sink below this degree of it, I care not if I 
never rise above it. This is a strange epistle, nor can I 
imagine how the devil I came to write it ; but here it is, 
such as it is, and much good may you do with it. I have 



LETTERS WRITTEN IN LONDON. 3 

no estate, as it happens ; so if it should fall into bad 
bands, I shall be in no danger of a commission of lunacy. 
Adieu I Carr is well, and gives his love to you. — Yours 
ever, Wm. Cowper. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

The Temple, August 9, 1763. 
My dear Cousin — Having promised to write to you, 
I make haste to be as good as my word. I have a plea- 
sure in writing to you at any time, but especially at the 
present, when my days are spent in reading the journals, 
and my nights in dreaming of them — an employment not 
very agreeable to a head that has long been habituated to 
the luxury of choosing its subject, and has been as little 
employed upon business as if it had grown upon the 
shoulders of a much wealthier gentleman. But the num- 
skull pays for it now, and will not presently forget the 
discipline it has undergone lately. If I succeed in this 
doubtful piece of promotion, I shall have at least this 
satisfaction to reflect upon, that the volumes I write will 
be treasured up with the utmost care for ages, and will 
last as long as the English constitution — a duration which 
ought to satisfy the vanity of any author who has a spark 
of love for his country. Oh, my good cousin ! if I was 
to open my heart to you, I could show you strange sights ; 
nothing, I flatter myself, that would shock you, but a 
great deal that would make you wonder. I am of a very 
singular temper, and very unlike all the men that I have 
ever conversed with. Certainly I am not an absolute 
fool ; but I have more weakness than the greatest of all 
the fools I can recollect at present. In short, if I was as 
fit for the next world as I am unfit for this — and God for- 
bid I should speak it in vanity ! — I would not change 
conditions with any saints in Christendom. 



4 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

My destination is settled at last, and I have obtained a 
furlough. Margate is the word, and what do you think 
will ensue, cousin? I know what you expect, but ever 
since I was bom I have been good at disappointing the 
most natural expectations. Many years ago, cousin, there 
was a possibility I might prove a very different thing from 
what I am at present. My character is now fixed, and 
riveted fast upon me ; and, between friends, is not a very 
splendid one, or likely to be guilty of much fascination. 

Adieu 1 my dear cousin. So much as I love you, I 
wonder how the deuce it has happened that I was never 
in love with you. Thank Heaven that I never was ; for 
at this time I have had a pleasure in writing to you, which 
in that case I should have forfeited. Let me hear from 
you, or I shall reap but half the reward that is due to my 
noble indifference. — Yours ever and evermore, 

W. C. 



LETTERS FROM HUNTINGDON, 
1765-1767. 

TO JOSEPH HILL. 

Huntingdon, June 24, 1765. 

Dear Joe — The only recompense I can make you for 
your kind attention to my affairs during my illness, is to 
tell you that, by the mercy of God, I am restored to 
perfect health, both of mind and body. This, I believe, 
will give you pleasure, and I would gladly do anything 
from which you could receive it. 

I left St Albans on the 17th, and arrived that day at 
Cambridge, spent some time there with my brother, and 
came hither on the 22d. I have a lodging that puts me 
continually in mind of our summer excursions ; we have 
had many worse, and, except the size of it (which, how- 
ever, is sufficient for a single man), but few better. I 
am not quite alone, having brought a servant with me 
from St. Albans, who is the very mirror of fidelity and 
affection for his master. And whereas the Turkish Spy 
says, he kept no servant, because he would not have an 
enemy in his house, I hired mine, because I would have 
a friend. Men do not usually bestow these encomiums 
on their lackeys, nor do they usually deserve them ; but 
I have had experience of mine, both in sickness and in 
health, and never saw his fellow. 



6 LETIERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

The river Ouse — I forget how they spell it — is the 
most agreeable circumstance in this part of the world : at 
this town it is, I believe, as wide as the Thames at 
Windsor ; nor does the silver Thames better deserve that 
epithet, nor has it more flowers upon its banks, these 
being attributes which, in strict truth, belong to neither. 
Fluellen would say, they are as like as my fingers to my 
fingers, and there is salmon in both. It is a noble stream 
to bathe in, and I shall make that use of it three times a 
week, having introduced myself to it for the first time 
this morning. 

I beg you will remember me to all my friends, which 
is a task will cost you no great pains to execute — par- 
ticularly remember me to those of your own house, and 
believe me your very affectionate W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

Huntingdon, July i, 1765. 
My Dear Lady Hesketh — Since the visit you were 
so kind as to pay me in the Temple (the only time I 
ever saw you without pleasure), what have I not suffered ! 
And since it has pleased God to restore me to the use of 
my reason, what have I not enjoyed ! You know, by 
experience, how pleasant it is to feel the first approaches 
of health after a fever ; but, oh, the fever of the brain 1 
To feel the quenching of that fire is indeed a blessing, 
which I think it impossible to receive without the most 
consummate gratitude. Terrible as this chastisement is, 
I acknowledge in it the hand of an infinite justice ; nor 
is it at all more difficult for me to perceive in it the hand 
of an infinite mercy likewise. When I consider the effect 
it has had upon me, I am exceedingly thankful for it, and, 
without hypocrisy, esteem it the greatest blessing, next 



LETTERS FROM HUNTINGDON. ^ 

to life itself, I ever received from the divine bounty. I 
pray God that I may ever retain this sense of it, and then 
I am sure I shall continue to be, as I am at present, 
really happy. 

I write thus to you that you may not think me a forlorn 
and wretched creature, which you might be apt to do, 
considering my very distant removal from every friend I 
have in the world, — a circumstance which, before this 
event befell me, would undoubtedly have made me so ; 
but my affliction has taught me a road to happiness which, 
without it, I should never have found ; and I know, and 
have experience of it every day, that the mercy of God, 
to him who believes himself the object of it, is more than 
sufficient to compensate for the loss of every other blessing. 

You may now inform all those whom you think really 
interested in my welfare, that they have no need to be 
apprehensive on the score of my happiness at present. 
And you yourself will believe that my happiness is no 
dream, because I have told you the foundation on which 
it is built. What I have written would appear like 
enthusiasm to many, for we are apt to give that name to 
every warm affection of the mind in others which we 
have not experienced in ourselves ; but to you, who have 
so much to be thankful for, and a temper inclined to 
gratitude, it will not appear so. 

I b^ you will give my love to Sir Thomas, and believe 
that I am obliged to you both for inquiring after me at 
St. Albans. — Yours ever, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

HaNTINGDON, July 4, X765. 

Being just emerged from the Ouse, I sit down to thank 
you, my dear cousin, for your friendly and comfortable 



8 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

letter. What could you think of my unaccountable be- 
haviour to you in that visit I mentioned in my last ? I 
remember I neither spoke to you, nor looked at you. 
The solution of the mystery, indeed, followed soon after, 
but at the time it must have been inexplicable. The 
uproar within was even then begun, and my silence was 
only the sulkiness of a thunderstorm before it opens. I 
am glad, however, that the only instance-in which I knew^ 
not how to value your company was, when I was not in- 
my senses. It was the first of the kind, and I trust in 
God it will be the last. 

I reckon it one instance of the providence that has 
attended me throughout this whole event, that, instead of 
being delivered into the hands of one of the London 
physicians — who were so much nearer that I wonder I 
was not — I was carried to Doctor Cotton. I was not 
only treated by him with the greatest tenderness while I 
was ill, and attended with the utmost diligence, but when 
my reason was restored to me, and I had so much need 
of a religious friend to converse with, to whom I could 
open my mind upon the subject without reserve, I could 
hardly have found a fitter person for the purpose. My 
eagerness and anxiety to settle my opinions upon that 
long-neglected point made it necessary that, while my 
mind was yet weak, and my spirits uncertain, I should 
have some assistance. The doctor was as ready to ad- 
minister relief to me in this article likewise, and as well 
qualified to do it, as in that which was more immediately 
his province. How many physicians would have thought 
this an irregular appetite, and a symptom of remaining 
madness I But if it were so, my friend was as mad as 
m3^elf, and it is well for me that he was so. 

My dear cousin, you know not half the deliverances I 
have received ; my brother is the only one in the family 
who does. My recovery is, indeed, a signal one ; but a 



LETTERS FROM HUNTINGDON. 9 

greater, if possible, went before it. My future life must 
express my thankfulness, for by words I cannot do it 

I pray God to bless you and my friend Sir Thomas. — 
Yours ever, W, C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Huntingdon, September 14, 1765. 
My dear Cousin— The longer I live here, the better 
I like the place, and the people who belong to it. I am 
upon very good terms with no less than five families, be- 
sides two or three odd scrambling fellows like myself. 
The last acquaintance I made here is with the race of 
the Unwins, consisting of father and mother, son and 
daughter, the most comfortable, social folks you ever 
knew. The son is about twenty-one years of age, one of 
the most unreserved and amiable young men I ever con- 
versed with. He has not yet arrived at that time of life 
when suspicion recommends itself to us in the form of 
wisdom, and sets everything but our own dear selves at 
an immeasurable distance from our esteem and confidence. 
Consequently he is known almost as soon as seen, and, 
having nothing in his heart that makes it necessary for 
him to keep it barred and bolted, opens it to the perusal 
even of a stranger. The father is a clergyman, and the 
son is designed for orders. The design, however, is quite 
his own, proceeding merely from his being, and having 
always been, sincere in his belief and love of the Gospel. 
Another acquaintance I have lately made is with a Mr. 
Nicholson, a north country divine, very poor, but very 
good and very happy. He reads prayers here twice a 
day, all the year round, and travels on foot to serve two 
churches every Sunday through the year, his journey out 
and home again being sixteen miles. I supped with him 



lO LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

last night. He gave me bread and cheese, and a black 
jug of ale of his own brewing, and, doubtless, brewed by 

his own hands. Another of my acquaintance is Mr. , 

a thin, tall, old man, and as good as he is thin. He 
drinks nothing but water, and eats no flesh; partly, I 
believe, from a religious scruple (for he is very religious), 
and partly in the spirit of a valetudinarian. He is to be 
met with every morning of his life, at about six o'clock, 
at a fountain of very fine water, about a mile from the 
town, which is reckoned extremely like the Bristol spring. 
Being both early risers, and the only early walkers in the 
place, we soon became acquainted. His great piety can 
be equalled by nothing but his great regularity, for he is 
the most perfect timepiece in the world. I have received 

a visit likewise from Mr. . He is very much a 

gentleman, well read, and sensible. I am persuaded, in 
short, that if I had had the choice of all England, where 
to fix my abode, I could not have chosen better for myself, 
and most likely I should not have chosen so well. 

You say you hope it is not necessary for salvation to 
undergo the same afflictions that I have undergone. No 1 
my dear cousin. God deals with His children as a merciful 
father ; He does not, as He Himself tells us, afflict willingly 
the sons of men. Doubtless there are many who, having 
been placed by His good providence out of the reach of 
any great evil, and the influence of bad example, have, 
from their very infancy been partakers of the grace of His 
Holy Spirit, in such a manner as never to have allowed 
themselves in any grievous offence against Him. May you 
love Him more and more day by day, as every day, while 
you think upon Him, you will find Him more worthy of 
your love ; and may you be finally accepted by Him, for 
His sake, whose intercession for all His faithful servants 
cannot but prevail ! — Yours ever, W. C. 



LEITERS FROM HUNTINGDON. II 



TO JOSEPH HILL. 

Huntingdon, July 3, 1765. 

Dear Joe — Whatever you may think of the matter, it 
is no easy thing to keep house for two people. A man 
cannot always live upon sheep's heads and liver and lights, 
like the lions in the tower ; and a joint of meat, in so 
small a family, is an endless encumbrance. My butcher's 
bill for last week amounted to four shillings and tenpence. 
I set oiF with a leg of lamb, and was forced to give part 
of it away to my washerwoman. Then I made an experi- 
ence upon a sheep's heart, and that was too little. Next 
I put three pounds of beef into a pie, and this had like to 
have been too much, for it 'lasted three da3rs, though my 
landlord was admitted to a share of it. Then as to small 
beer, I am puzzled to pieces about it. I have bought as 
much for a shilling as will serve us at least a month, and 
it is grown sour already. In short, I never knew how 
to pity poor housekeepers before; but now I cease to 
wonder at the politic cast which their occupation usually 
gives to their countenance, for it is really a matter full of 
perplexity. 

I have received but one visit since here I came. I 
don't mean that I ha<e refused any, but that only one has 
been offered. This was from my woollen draper — a very 
healthy, wealthy, sensible, sponsible man, and extremely 
civil. He has a cold bath, and has promised me a key 
of it, which I shall probably make use of in the winter. 
He has undertaken, too, to get me the St, Jameses Chron- 
icle three times a week, and to show me Hinchinbrook 
House, and to do every service for me in his power ; so 
that I did not exceed the truth, you see, when I spoke of 
his civility. Here is a card - assembly, and a dancing 



12 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

assembly, and a horse-race, and a club, and a bowling- 
green — so that I am well off, you perceive, in point of 
diversions ; especially as I shall go to 'em just as much 
as I should if I lived a thousand miles off. But no matter 
for that ; the spectator at a play is more entertained than 
the actor, and in real life it is much the same. You will 
say, perhaps, that if I never frequent these places I shall 
not come within the description of a spectator ; and you 
will say right. I have made a blunder, which shall be 
corrected in the next edition. 

You are an old dog at a bad tenant ; witness all my 
uncle's and your mother's geese and gridirons. There is 
something so extremely impertinent in entering upon a 
man's premises, and using them without paying for 'em, 
that I could easily resent it if I would. But I rather 
choose to entertain myself with thinking how you will 
scour the man about, and worry him to death, if once you 
begin with him. Poor toad 1 I leave him entirely to your 
mercy. 

My dear Joe, you desire me to write long letters — I 
have neither matter enough nor perseverance enough for 
the purpose. However, if you can contrive to be tired of 
reading as soon as I am of writing, we shall find that short 
ones answer just as well ; and, in my opinion, this is a 
very practical measure. 

My friend Colman has had good fortune ; I wish him 
better fortune still ; which is, that he may make a right 
use of it. The tragedies of Lloyd and Bensley are both 
very deep. If they are not of use to the surviving part of 
the society it is their own fault. 

I was debtor to Bensley seven pounds, or nine, I forget 
which. If you can find out his brother, you will do him 
a great favour if you will pay him for me ; but do it at 
your leisure. — Yours and theirs, W. C. 



LETTERS FROM HUNTINGDON. 1 3 



TO THE SAME. 

August 14, 1765. 

Dear Joe — Both Lady Hesketh and my brother have 
apprised me of your intention to give me a call; and 
herein I find they were both mistaken. But they both 
informed me, likewise, that you were already set out for 
Warwickshire ; in consequence of which latter intelligence 
I have lived in continual expectation of seeing you any 
time this fortnight. Now how these two ingenuous per- 
sonages (for such they are both) should mistake an expe- 
dition to French Flanders for a journey to Warwickshire 
is more than I, with all my ingenuity, can imagine. I 
am glad, however, that I have still a chance of seeing 
you, and shall treasure it up amongst my agreeable 
expectations. In the meantime you are welcome to the 
British shoe, as the song has it, and I thank you for your 
epitome of your travels. You don*t tell me how you 
escaped the vigilance of the custom-house oflficers, though 
I daresay you were knuckle-deep in contrabands, and had 
your boots stuffed with all manner of unlawful wares and 
merchandises. 

You know, Joe, that I am very deep in debt to my 
little physician at St. Alban's, and that the handsomest 
thing I can do will be to pay him le plutot quHl sera pos- 
sible (this is vile French, I believe, but you can now 
correct it). My brother informs me that you have such a 
quantity of cash in your hands, on my account, that I 
may venture to send him forty pounds immediately. 
This, therefore, I shall be obliged if you will manage for 
me ; and when you receive the hundred pounds, which 
my brother likewise brags you are shortly to receive, I 
shall be glad if you will discharge the remainder of that 



14 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

debt, without waiting for any further advice from your 
humble servant. 

I am become a professed horseman, and do hereby 
assume to myself the style and title of the Knight of the 
Bloody Spur. It has cost me much to bring this point to 
bear ; but I think I have at last accomplished it. My 
love to all your family. — Yours ever, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Ociober^S, 1765. 
Dear Joe — I am afraid the month of October has 
proved rather unfavourable to the belle assemble at 
Southampton, high winds and continual rains being 
bitter enemies to that agreeable lounge, which you and 
I are equally fond of. I have very cordially betaken 
myself to my books and my fireside, and seldom leave 
them, unless for exercise. I have added another family 
to the number of those I was acquainted with when you 
were here. Their name is Unwin, — the most agreeable 
people imaginable ; quite sociable, and as free from the 
ceremonious civility of country gentlefolks as any I ever 
met with. They treat me more like a near relation than 
a stranger, and their house is always open to me. The 
old gentleman carries me to Cambridge in his chaise.- 
He is a man of learning and good sense, and as simple 
as Parson Adams. His wife has a very uncommon 
understanding, has read much to excellent purpose, and 
is more polite than a duchess. The son, who belongs to 
Cambridge, is a most amiable young man; and the 
daughter quite of a piece with the rest of the family. They 
see but little company, which suits me exactly ; go when 
I will, I find a house full of peace and cordiality in all 
its parts, and am sure to hear no scandal, but such dis- 



LETTERS FROM HUNTINGDON. 15 

course instead of it as we are all better for. You remem- 
ber Rousseau's description of an English morning ; such 
are the mornings I spend with these good people ; and 
the evenings differ from them in nothing, except that 
they are still more snug and quieter. Now I know them, 
I wonder that I liked Huntingdon so well before I kn£w 
them, and am apt to think I should find every place 
disagreeable that had not an Unwin. belonging to it. 

This incident convinces me of the truth of an observa- 
tion I have often made, that when we circumscribe our 
estimate of all that is clever within the limits of our own 
acquaintance (which I at least have been always apt to 
do), we are guilty of a very uncharitable censure upon 
the rest of the world, and of a narrowness of thinking 
disgraceful to ourselves. Wapping and Redriflf may con- 
tain some of the most amiable persons living, and such 
as one would go to Wapping and Redrifif to make 
acquaintance with. You remember Gray's Stanza : — 

Full many a gem of purest ray serene 
The deep unfathom'd caves of ocean bear ; 
Full many a flower is bom to blush unseen, 
And waste its sweetness on the desert air. 

Yours, dear Joe, W. C. 



TO MRS. COWPER. 

Huntingdon, October 20^ 1766. 
My dear Cousin — ^I am very sorry for poor Charles's 
illness, and hope you will soon have cause to thank God 
for his complete recovery. We have an epidemical fever 
in this country likewise, which leaves behind it a con- 
tinual sighing, almost to suffocation; not that I have 
seen any instance of it, for, blessed be God I our family 
have hitherto escaped it; but such was the account I 
heard of it this morning. 



1 6 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

I am obliged to you for the interest you take in my 
welfare, and for your inquiring so particularly after the 
manner in which my time passes here. As to amuse- 
ments — I mean what the world calls such — we have none ; 
the place, indeed, swarms with them, and cards and 
dancing are the professed business of almost all the gentle 
inhabitants of Huntingdon. We refuse to take part in 
them, or to be accessories to this way of murdering our 
time, and by so doing have acquired the name of 
Methodists. Having told you how we do not spend our 
time, I will next say how we do. We breakfast com- 
monly between eight and nine; till eleven we read 
either the Scripture, or the sermons of some faithful 
preacher of those holy mysteries ; at eleven we attend 
divine service, which is performed here twice every day ; 
and from twelve to three we separate, and amuse our- 
selves as we please. During that interval I either read 
in my own apartment, or walk, or ride, or work in the 
garden. We seldom sit an hour after dinner ; but, if the 
weather permits, adjourn to the garden, where, with 
Mrs. Unwin and her son, I have generally the pleasure 
of religious conversation till tes^vtime. If it rains, or is 
too windy for walking, we either converse within doors, 
or sing some hjnnns of Martin's collection ; and by the 
help of Mrs. Unwin*s harpsichord, make up a tolerable 
concert, in which our hearts, I hope, are the best and 
most musical performers. After tea we sally forth to 
walk in good earnest. Mrs. Unwin is a good walker, 
and we have generally travelled about four miles before 
we see home again. When the days are short, we make 
this excursion in the former part of the day, between 
church-time and dinner. At night we read and converse, 
as before, till supper, and commonly finish the evening 
either with hymns or a sermon, and last of all the family 
are called to prayers. I need not tell you that such a 



LETTERS FROM HUNTINGDON. 1 7 

life as this is consistent with the utmost cheerfulness; 
accordingly we are all happy, and dwell together in 
unity as brethren. Mrs. Unwin has almost a maternal 
affection for me, and I have something very like a filial 
one for her ; and her son and I are brothers. Blessed 
be the God of our salvation for such companions, and 
for such a life ; above all, for a heart to like it I 

I have had many anxious thoughts about taking orders, 
and I believe every new convert is apt to think himself 
called upon for that purpose ; but it has pleased God, by 
means which there is no need to particularise, to give 
me full satisfaction as to the propriety of declining it ; 
indeed they who have the least idea of what I have 
suffered from the dread of public exhibitions, will readily 
excuse my never attempting them hereafter. In the 
meantime, if it please the Almighty, I may be an instru- 
ment of turning many to the truth in a private way, and 
I hope that my endeavours in this way have not been 
entirely unsuccessful. Had I the zeal of Moses, I should 
want an Aaron to be my spokesman. — Yours ever, my 
dear cousin, W. C. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

May 14, X767. 

My dear Joe — I only know that I was once the 
happy owner of a red leather trunk, and that my brother, 
when I first saw him at Cambridge, upon my inquiring 
after my papers, etc., told me that in a red leather trunk 
Ihey were all safely deposited. The whole contents of it 
are little worth, and if I never see them more I shall 
be but very moderately afflicted by the loss, though I 
fancy the trunk upon the road will prove to be the very 
trunk in question. 

Together with your letter came a bill from my quondam 

c 



1 8 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

hosier in Fleet Street, Mr. Reynolds, for the sum of 
two pounds ten shillings, desiring present payment, cash 
being scarce. I sent him an order for the money by this 
day's post. My future expenses in the hosiery line will 
be small, for Mrs. Unwin knits all my stockings, and 
would knit my hats too, if that were possible. 

I imagine my brother will be in town about mid- 
summer, when he will be able to confer with you upon 

the subject of the inexorable Mr. E , more to the 

purpose than I can by letter. 

Having commenced gardener, I study the arts of 
pruning, sowing, planting, and enterprise everything in 
that way, from melons down to cabbages. I have a 
large garden to display my abilities in; and were we 
twenty miles nearer London, I might turn higgler, and 
serve your honour with cauliflowers and broccoli at the 
best hand. I shall possibly now and then desire you to 
call at the seed shop, in your way to Westminster, though 
sparingly. Should I do it often, you would begin to 
think you had a mother-in-law at Berkhampstead. — You^s, 
dear Joe, Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE SAME. 

July 1 6, 1767. 

Dear Joe — Your wishes that the newspapers may 
have misinformed you are vain. Mr. Unwin is dead, 
and died in the manner there mentioned. At nine o'clock 
on Sunday morning he was in perfect health, and as 
likely to live twenty years as either of us, and before ten 
was stretched speechless and senseless upon a flock bed, 
in a poor cottage, where (it being impossible to remove 
him) he died on Thursday evening. I heard his d3dng 
groans, the eftect of great agony, for he was a strong 
man, and much convulsed in his last moments. The few 



LETTERS FROM HUNTINGDON. 1 9 

short intervals of sense that were indulged him he spent 
in earnest prayer, and in expressions of a firm trust and 
confidence in the only Saviour. To that stronghold we 
must all resort at last, if we would have hope in our 
death ; when every other refuge fails, we are glad to fly 
to the only shelter to which we can repair to any purpose ; 
and happy is it for us when, the false ground we have 
chosen for ourselves being broken under us, we find 
ourselves obliged to have recourse to the rock which can 
never be shaken : when this is our lot, we receive great 
and undeserved mercy. 

Our society will not break up, but we shall settle in 
some other place ; where, is at present uncertain. — Yours, 

W. C. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 
1 767- 1 786. 

TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

Olney, October 10, 1767. 

Dear Joe — I am obliged to you for complying with 
my request, and shall be glad to have the matter ex- 
pedited as fast as may be. 

One more law question, and I believe the last. A 
man holds land in right of his wife — the rents payable 
half-yearly, viz. at Lady Day and Michaelmas— dies in 
July, are not the rising rents the property of the widow? 
I mean the rent of the whole last half-year. You are a 
better counsellor than I was, but I think you have not 
such a client in me as I had in Dick Harcourt. Much 
good may you do with me ! 

Neither have I any map to consult at present, but by 
what remembrance I have of the situation of this place 
in the last I saw,. it lies at the northernmost point of the 
country. We are just five miles beyond Newport Pagnell. 
I am willing to suspect that you make this inquiry with 
a view to an interview when time shall serve. We may 
possibly be settled in our own house in about a month, 
where so good a friend of mine will be extremely welcome 
to Mrs. Unwin. We shall have a bed and a warm fire- 
side at your service, if you can come before next summer. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 21 

and if not, a parlour that looks the north wind full in the 
face, where you may be as cool as in the groves of Valom- 
brosa. — Yours, my dear Sephus, affectionately ever, 

Wm. Cowper. 

P.S. — The stock is in the 3 per cent, consols. You 
may send the letter of attorney by the waggon from the 
George in Smithfield. It sets out on Tuesday morning 
early. But upon recollection, it had better come by the 
post. 



TO MRS. COWPER. 

Olney, August 31, 1769. 
My dear Cousin— a letter from your brother Fred- 
eric brought me yesterday the most afflicting intelligence 
that has reached me these many years. I pray to God 
to comfort you, and to enable you to sustain this heavy 
stroke with that resignation to His will which none but 
Himself can give, and which He gives to none but His 
own children. How blessed and happy is your lot, my 
dear friend, beyond the common lot of the greater part 
of mankind, that you know what it is to draw near to 
God in prayer, and are acquanted with a throne of grace ! 
You have resources in the infinite love of a dear Re- 
deemer, which are withheld from millions ; and the pro- 
mises of God, which are yea and amen in Jesus, are 
sufficient to answer all your necessities, and to sweeten 
the bitterest cup which your heavenly Father will ever 
.put into your hand. May He now give you liberty to 
drink at these wells of salvation, till you are filled with 
consolation and peace in the midst of trouble ! He has 
said, ** When thou passest through the fire I will be with 
thee, and when through the floods, they shall not over- 
flow thee." You have need of such a word as this, and 



22 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

He knows your need of it, and the time of necessity is the 
time when He will be sure to appear in behalf of those 
who trust in Him. I bear you and yours upon my heart 
before Him night and day, for I never expect to hear of 
distress which shall call upon me with a louder voice to 
pray for the sufferer. I know the Lord hears me for 
myself, vile and sinful as I am, and believe and am sure 
that He will hear me for you also. He is the friend of 
the widow, and the father of the fatherless, even God in 
His holy habitation ; in all our afflictions He is afflicted, 
and He chastens us in mercy. Surely He will sanctify this 
dispensation to you, do you great and everlasting good 
by it, make the world appear like dust and vanity in 
your sight, as it truly is, and open to your view the 
glories of a better country, where there shall be no more 
death, neither sorrow nor pain, but God shall wipe away 
all tears from your eyes for ever. O that comfortable 
word ! "I have chosen thee in the furnaces of affliction ; " 
so that our very sorrows are evidences of our calling, and 
He chastens us because we are His children. 

My dear cousin, I commit you to the word of His grace, 
and to the comforts of His Holy Spirit. Your life is 
needful for your family : may God in mercy to them 
prolong it, and may He preserve you from the dangerous 
effects which a stroke like this might have upon a frame 
so tender as yours. I grieve with you — I pray for you : 
could I do more, I would ; but God must comfort you. 
— Yours, in our dear Lord Jesus, W. C. 



TO MRS. MADAN, STAFFORD ROW, WESTMINSTER. 

Olnev, March 24, 1770. 

Dear Aunt — You may possibly by this time have 
heard of the death of my dear brother. I should not 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 23 

have left you to learn it from any but myself had I had 
either spirits or opportunity to write sooner. He died 
on Tuesday last, the 20th. It was not judged proper 
that I should attend the funeral ; I therefore took leave 
of the melancholy scene as soon as possible, and returned 
to Olney on Thursday. He has left me to sing of mercy 
and judgment. Greater sufferings than he underwent 
are seldom seen, greater mercy than he received, I be- 
lieve, never. His views of Gospel grace were as clear, 
and his sense of his interest in Christ as strong, as if he 
had been exercised in the Christian walk and warfare 
many years. This is my consolation, and great consola- 
tion I find it, that he is gone to his Father and my 
Father, to his God and my God. 

He is to be buried at his living, about seven miles 
from Cambridge, at his own desire, this day ; the masters 
and fellows attend the funeral. 

I shall be obliged to you, my dear aunt, if the next 
time you write to dear Mrs. Cowper at York, you will be 
so good as to inform her of this event. 

I am, my dear aunt, yours affectionately in the Lord, 

Wm. Cowper. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

September 25, 1770. 

Dear Joe — I have not done conversing with terrestrial 
objects, though I should be happy were I able to hold 
more continual converse with a Friend above the skies. 
He has my heart, but He allows a corner in it for all who 
show me kindness, and therefore one for you. The 
s.torm of sixty-three made a wreck of the friendships I 
had contracted in the course of many years, yours ex- 
cepted, which has survived the tempest 

I thank you for your repeated invitation. Singular 



/ 



24 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

thanks are due to you for so singular an instance of your 
regard. I could not leave Olney, unless in a case of ab- 
solute necessity, without much inconvenience to myself 
and others. W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

November X2, 1776. 

Deak Friend — The very agreeable contents of your 
last came safe to hand in the shape of two notes for 
thirty pounds. I am to thank you likewise for a barrel 
of very good oysters, received about a fortnight ago. 
One to whom fish is so welcome as it is to me, can have 
no great occasion to distinguish the sorts. In general, 
therefore, whatever fish are likely to think a jaunt into 
the country agreeable, will be sure to find me ready to 
receive them : butts, plaice, flounder, or any other. If 
herrings are yet to be had, as they cannot be had at 
Olney till they are good for nothing, they will be wel- 
come too. We have seen none this year, except a parcel 
Mrs. Unwin sent for, and the fishmonger sent stale 
ones, a trick they are apt to play upon their customers 
at a distance. 

Having suffered so much from nervous fevers myself, 
I know how to congratulate Ashley upon his recovery. 
Other distempers only batter the walls ; but they creep 
slowly into the citadel, and put the garrison to the sword. 

You see I have not made a squeamish use of your 
obliging offer. The remembrance of past years, and of 
the sentiments formerly exchanged in our evening walks, 
convinces me still that an unreserved acceptance of what 
is graciously offered is the handsomest way of dealing 
with one of your character. — Believe me yours, 

Wm. Cowper. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 25 

The Wellingborough diligence passes our door every 
Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday; and inns at the 
Cross Keysy St. John's Street, Smithfield. 

As to the frequency, which you leave to my choice too, 
you have no need to exceed the number of your former 
remittances. 

If it were to rain pupils, perhaps I might catch a 
tubful ; but till it does, the fruitlessness of my inquiries 
makes me think I must keep my Greek and Latin to 
myself. — Yours aflfectionately, Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE REV. W. UNWIN. 

July 18, 1778. 

My dear Friend — I hurry you into the midst of 
things at once, which, if it be not much in the epistolary 
style, is acknowledged, however, to be very sublime. 
Mr. Morley, mdelicet^ the grocer, is guilty of such 
neglect and carelessness, and has lately so much disap- 
pointed your mother that she is at last obliged to leave 
him, and begs you will send her Mr. Rawlinson*s address, 
that she may transfer her custom to him. She adds, 
moreover, that she was well aware of the unseasonable- 
ness of salmon, and did not mean that you should order 
any to Olney till the spring. 

We are indebted to you for your political intelligence, 
but have it not in our power to pay you in kind. Pro- 
ceed, however, to give us such information as cannot be 
learned from the newspaper, and when anything arises at 
Olney which is not in the threadbare style of daily oc- 
currences, you shall hear of it in return. Nothing of this 
sort has happened lately, except that a lion was imported 
here at a fair, seventy years of age, and as tame as a 
goose. Your mother and I saw him embrace his keeper 



26 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

with his paws, and lick his face. Others saw him receive 
his head in his mouth, and restore it to him again unhurt 
— a sight we chose not to be favoured with, but rather 
advised the honest man to discontinue the practice — a 
practice hardly reconcileable to prudence, unless he had 
a head to spare. The beast, however, was a very mag- 
nificent one, and much more royal in his appearance than 
those I have seen in the Tower. 

The paper tells us that the Chancellor is frequently at 
the Register Office, having conceived a design to shorten 
the proceedings in his court. If he has indeed such a 
purpose in view, he is so industrious and so resolute that 
he will never let it drop unaccomplished. Perhaps the 
practitioners will have no reason to regret it, as they may 
gain in such an event more by the multiplicity of suits 
than they do at present by the length of them. 

Your mother joins me in affectionate respects — I should 
have said love — to yourself, Mrs. Unwin, Miss Shuttle- 
worth, and little John. If you will accept this for a letter, 
perhaps I may be able to furnish more such upon occasion. 
—Yours, with thanks for your last, 

Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE SAME. 

May 96, 1779. 
My dear Friend — I must beg your assistance in a 
design I have formed to cheat the glazier. Government 
has laid a tax upon glass, and he has trebled it. I want 
as much as will serve for a large frame, but am unwilling 
to pay an exorbitant price for it. I shall be obliged to 
you, therefore, if you will inquire at a glass- manufacturer's 
how he sells his Newcastle glass, such as is used for 
frames and hothouses. If you will be so good as to send 
me this information, and at the same time the manufac- 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 7.^ 

turer*s address, I will execute the rest of the business 
myself, without giving you any further trouble. 

I am obliged to you for the Poets ; and though I little 
thought that I was translating so much money out of your 
pocket into the bookseller's when I turned Prior's poem 
into Lratin, yet I must needs say, that if you think it worth 
while to purchase the English classics at all, you cannot 
possess yourself of them upon better terms. I have 
looked into some of the volumes, but, not having yet 
finished the Register, have merely looked into them. A 
few things I have met with, which, if they had been burned 
the moment they were written, it would have been better 
for the author, and at least as well for his readers. There 
is not much of this, but a little is too much. I think it 
a pity the editor admitted any ; the English muse would 
have lost no credit by the omission of such trash. Some 
of them, again, seem to me to have but a very disputable 
right to a place among the classics ; and I am quite at a 
loss, when I see them in such company, to conjecture 
what is Dr. Johnson's idea or definition of classical merit. 
But if he inserts the poems of some who can hardly he 
said to deserve such an honour, the purchaser may com- 
fort himself with the hope that he will exclude none that 
do. 

Your mother sends her love and affectionate remem- 
brance to all at Stock, frbm the tallest to the shortest 
there, in which she is accompanied by yours, 

W. C. 

^ TO THE SAME. 

July, X779. 

My dear Friend — If you please, you may give my 
service to Mr. James Martin, glazier, and tell him that 
I have furnished myself with glass from Bedford for half 
the money. 



\ 



28 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

When I was at Margate it was an excursion of pleasure 
to go to see Ramsgate. The pier, I remember, was ac- 
counted a most excellent piece of stonework, and such I 
found it. By this time, I suppose, it is finished ; and 
surely it is no small advantage that you have an oppor- 
tunity of observing how nicely those great stones are put 
together, as often as you please, without trouble or 
expense. But you think Margate more lively. So is a 
Cheshire cheese, full of mites, more lively than a sound 
one ; but that very liveliness only proves its rottenness. 
I remember, too, that Margate, though full of company, 
was generally filled with such company as people who 
were nice in the choice of their company were rather 
fearful of keeping company with. The hoy went to 
London every week, loaded with mackerel and herrings, 
and returned loaded with company. The cheapness of 
the conveyance made it equally commodious for dead fish 
and lively company. So, perhaps, your solitude at 
Ramsgate may turn out another advantage, at least I 
should think it one. 

There was not, at that time, much to be seen in the Isle 
of Thanet besides the beauty of the country, and the fine 
prospects of the sea, which are nowhere surpassed except 
in the Isle of Wight, or upon some parts of the coast of 
Hampshire. One sight, however, I remember, engaged 
my curiosity, and I went to see it — a fine piece of ruins, 
built by the late Lord Holland at a great expense, which, 
the day after I saw it, tumbled down for nothing. Per- 
haps, therefore, it is still a ruin ; and if it is, I would 
advise you by all means to visit it, as it must have been 
much improved by this fortunate incident. It is hardly 
possible to put stones together with that air of wild and 
magnificent disorder which they are sure to acquire by 
falling of their own accord. 

We heartily wish that Mrs. Unwin may receive the 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 29 

utmost benefit of bathing. At the same time we caution 
you against the use of it, however the heat of the weather 
may seem to recommend it. It is not safe for thin habits 
hectically inclined. 

I remember (the fourth and last thing I mean to re- 
member on this occasion) that Sam Cox, the counsel, 
walking by the seaside as if absorbed in deep contempla- 
tion, was questioned about what he was musing on. He 
replied : "I was wondering that such an almost infinite 
and unwieldy element should produce a sprat. ^^ 

Our love attends your whole party. — ^Yours affection- 
ately, W. C. 

P,S, — You are desired to purchase three pounds of six- 
penny white worsted at a shop well recommended for 
that commodity. The Isle of Thanet is famous for it, 
beyond any other place in the kingdom. 



TO THE SAME. 

1 /«^ 17, 1779. 

My dear Friend— Hf¥c"efivy you your sea breezes. 
In the garden we feel nothing but the reflection of the 
heat from the walls, and in the parlour from the opposite 
houses. I fancy Virgil was so situated when he wrote 
those two beautiful lines : — 

" Oh quis me gelidis in vallibus Hsemi 
Sistat, et ingenti ramorum protegat umbra !" 

The worst of it is, that though the sunbeams strike as forc- 
ibly upon my harp-strings as they did upon his, they elicit 
no such sounds, but rather produce such groans as they are 
said to have drawn from those of the statue of Memnon. 
As you have ventured to make the experiment, your 
own experience will be your best guide in the article of 



30 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

bathing. An inference will hardly follow, though one 
should pull at it with all one's might, from Smollett's 
case to yours. He was corpulent, muscular, and strong — 
whereas if you were either stolen or strayed such a de- 
scription of you in an advertisement would hardly direct 
an enquirer with sufficient accuracy and exactness. But 
if bathing does not make your head ache, or prevent your 
sleeping at night, I should imagine it could not hurt you. 

I remember taking a walk upon the strand at Margate 
where the cliff is high and perpendicular. At long inter- 
vals there are cartways cut through the rock down to the 
beach, and there is no other way of access to it or from 
it. I walked near a mile upon the water edge without 
observing that the tide was rising fast upon it. When I 
did observe it, it was almost too late. I ran every step 
of the way back again, and had much ado to save my 
distance. I mention this as a caution, lest you should 
happen at any time to be surprised as I was. It would 
be very unpleasant to be forced to cling like a cat to the 
side of a precipice, and perhaps hardly possible to do it 
for four hours without any respite. 

It seems a trifle, but it is a real disadvantage, to have 
no better name to pass by than the gentleman you 
mention. Whether we suppose him settled and pro- 
moted in the army, the church, or the law, how uncouth 
the sound — Captain Twopenny I Bishop Twopenny ! 
Judge Twopenny I The abilities of Lord Mansfield would 
hardly impart a dignity to such a name. Should he 
perform deeds worthy of poetical panegyric, how difficult 
would it be to ennoble the sound of Twopenny I 

Muse ! place him high upon the lists of Fame, 
The wondrous man, -and Twopenny his name I 

But to be serious, if the French should land in the 
Isle of Thanet, and Mr. Twopenny should fall into their 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 3 1 

hands, he will have a fair opportunity to Frenchify his 
name, and may call himself Monsieur Deux Sous, which, 
when he comes to be exchanged by Cartel, will easily 
resume an English form, and slide naturally into Two 
Shoes, in my mind a considerable improvement. — Yours 
afiectionately, W. C. 



• TO THE SAME. 

September 2\i 1779. 
Amico Mio — Be pleased to buy me a glazier's dia- 
mond pencil. I have glazed the two frames designed to 
receive my pine plants. But I cannot mend the kitchen 
windows till by the help of that implement I can reduce 
the glass to its proper dimensions. If I were a plumber 
I should be a complete glazier ; and possibly the happy 
time may come when I shall be seen trudging away to 
the neighbouring towns with a shelf of glassj ianging at 
my back. If Government should impose another tax 
upon that commodity, I hardly know a business in which 
a gentleman might more successfully employ himself. A 
Chinese of ten times my fortune would avail himself of 
such an opportunity without scruple; and why should 
not I, who want money as much as any mandarin in 
China? Rousseau would have been charmed to have 
seen me so occupied, and would have exclaimed with 
rapture, "that he had found the Emilius who, he sup- 
posed, had subsisted only in his own idea." I would 
recommend it to you to follow my example. You will 
presently qualify yourself for the task, and may not only 
amuse yourself at home, but may even exercise your skill 
in mending the church windows ; which, as it would 
save money to the parish, would conduce, together with 
your other ministerial accomplishments, to make you 
extremely popular in the place. 



32 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

I have eight pair of tame pigeons. When I first enter 
the garden in the morning, I find them perched upon the 
wall, waiting for their breakfast ; for I feed them always 
upon the gravel walk. If your wish should be accom- 
plished, and you should find yourself furnished with the 
wings of a dove, I shall undoubtedly find you amongst 
them. Only be so good, if that should be the case, as to 
announce yourself by some means or other. For I 
imagine your crop will require something better than 
tares to fill it. 

Your mother and I last week made a trip in a post- 
chaise to Gayhurst, the seat of Mr. Wright, about four 
miles off. He understood that I did not much affect 
strange faces, and sent over his servant on purpose to 
inform me that he was going into Leicestershire, and that, 
if I chose to see the gardens, I might gratify myself 
without danger of seeing the proprietor. I accepted the 
invitation, and was delighted with all I found there. 
The situation is happy, the gardens elegantly disposed, 
the hothouse in the most flourishing state, and the 
orange-trees the most captivating creatures of the kind I 
ever saw. A man, in short, had need have the talents of 
Cox or Langford, the auctioneers, to do the whole scene 
justice. Our love attends you alL — Yours, W. C. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

October 2, X779. 

My dear Friend — ^You begin to count the remain- 
ing days of the vacation, not with impatience, but through 
unwillingness to see the end of it. For the mind of man, 
at least of most men, is equally busy in anticipating the 
evil and the good. That word anticipation puts me in 
remembrance of the pamphlet of that name, which, if 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 33 

you purchased, I should be glad to borrow. I have seen 
only an extract from it in the Review, which made me 
laugh heartily, and w^ish to peruse the whole. 

The newspaper informs me of the arrival of the 
Jamaica fleet. I hope it imports some pine-apple plants 
for me. I have a good frame and a good bed prepared 
to receive them. I send you annexed a fable, in which 
the pine-apple makes a figure, and shall be glad if you like 
the taste of it. Two pairs of soles, and shrimps, which 
arrived last night, demand my acknowledgments. You 
have heard that when Orion performed upon the harp 
the fish followed him. I really have no design to fiddle 
you out of more fish, but if you should esteem my verses 
worthy of such a price, — though I shall never be so re- 
nowned as he was — I shall think myself equally indebted 
to the muse that helps me. 

My affectionate respects attend Mrs. Hill. She has 
put Mr. Wright to the expense of building a new hot- 
house, the plants produced by the seed she gave me 
having grown so large as to require an apartment by 
themselves. — Yours, Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

Octohir 31, 1779. 

My DEAR Friend — T wrote my last letter merely to 
inform you that I had nothing to say, in answer to which 
you have said nothing. I admire the propriety of your 
conduct, though I am a loser by it I will endeavour to say 
something now, and shall hope for something in return. 

I have been well entertained with Johnson's biography, 
for which I thank you : with one exception, and that a 
swinging one, I think he has acquitted himself with his 
usual good sense and sufficiency. His treatment of Milton 
is unmerciful to the last degree. A pensioner is not likely 

D 



34 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

to spare a republican, and the Doctor, in order, I suppose, to 
convince his royal patron of the sincerity of his monarchical 
principles, has belaboured that great poet's character with 
the most industrious cruelty. As a man, he has hardly left 
him the shadow of one good quality. Churlishness in his 
private life, and a rancorous hatred of everything royal in 
his public, are the two colours with which he has smeared 
all the canvas. If he had any virtues, they are not to be 
found in the Doctor's picture of him, and it is well for 
Milton that some sourness in his temper is the only vice 
with which his memory has been charged ; it is evident 
enough that if his biographer could have discovered more, 
he would not have spared him. As a poet, he has 
treated him with severity enough, and has plucked onei 
or two of the most beautiful feathers out of his Muse's 
wing, and trampled them under his great foot He has 
passed sentence of condemnation upon Lycidas, and has 
taken occasion, from that charming poem, to expose to 
ridicule (what is indeed ridiculous enough) the childish 
prattlement of pastoral compositions, as if Lycidas wa3 
the protot3^e and pattern of them all. The liveliness of 
the description, the sweetness of the numbers, the classi- 
cal spirit of antiquity that prevails in it, go for nothing. 
I am convinced, by the way, that he has no ear for 
poetical numbers, or that it was stopped by prejudice 
against the harmony of Milton's. Was there ever any- 
thing so delightful as the music of the Paradise Lost ? It 
is like that of a fine organ ; has the fullest and the deepest 
tones of majesty, with all the softness and elegance of 
the Dorian flute : variety without end, and never equalled, 
unless perhaps by Virgil. Yet the Doctor has little or 
nothing to say upon this copious theme, but talks some- 
thing about the unfitness of the English language for 
blank verse, and how apt it is, in the mouth of some 
readers, to degenerate into declamation, /bh ! I could 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 35 

thrash his old jacket till I made his pension jingle in his 
pockets. ] 

I couldr talk a good while longer, but I have no room. 
Our love attends yourself, Mrs. Unwin, and Miss Shuttle- 
worth, not forgetting the two miniature pictures at your 
elbow. — Yours aflfectionately, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

February 27, 1780. 

My dear Friend — ^As you are pleased to desire my 
letters, I am the more pleased with writing them, though, 
at the same time, I must needs testify my surprise that 
you should think them worth receiving, as I seldom send 
one that I think favourably of myself. This is not to be 
understood as an imputation upon your taste or judgment, 
but as an encomium upon my own modesty and humility, 
which I desire you to remark well. It is a just observa- 
tion of Sir Joshua Reynolds, that though men of ordinary 
talents may be highly satisfied with their own productions, 
men of true genius never are. Whatever be their sub- 
ject, they always seem to themselves to fall short of it, 
even when they seem to others most to excel. And for 
this reason, — ^because they have a certain sublime sense 
of perfection, which other men are strangers to, and 
which they themselves in their performances are not able 
to exemplify. Your servant, Sir Joshua ! I little thought 
of seeing you when I began, but as you have popped in, 
you are welcome. 

When I wrote last, I was a little inclined to send you 
a copy of verses entitled the Modern Patriot, but was not 
quite pleased with a line or two which I found it difficult 
to mend, therefore did not. At night I read Mr. Burke's 
speech in the newspaper, and was so well pleased with 



36 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

his proposals for a reformation, and with the temper in 
which he made them, that I began to think better of his 
cause, and burnt my verses. Such is the lot of the man 
who writes upon the subject of the day ; the aspect of 
affairs changes in an hour or two, and his opinion with 
it ; what was just and well-deserved satire in the morn- 
ing, in the evening becomes a libel ; the author com- 
mences his own judge, and while he condemns with 
unrelenting severity what he so lately approved, is sorry 
to find that he has laid his leaf-gold upon touchwood, 
which crumbled away under his fingers. Alas ! what 
can I do with my wit ? I have not enough to do great 
things with, and these little things are so fugitive, that 
while a man catches at the subject, he is only filling his 
hand with smoke. I must do with it as I do with my 
linnet : I keep him for the most part in a cage, but now 
and then set open the door that he may whisk about the 
room a little, and then shut him up again. My whisking 
wit has produced the following, the subject of which is 
more important than the manner in which I have treated 
it seems to imply, but a fable may speak truth, and all 
truth is sterling ; I only premise, that in the philosophical 
tract in the Register, I found it asserted that the glow- 
worm is the nightingale's proper food. 

Have you heard ? — Who has not? for a recommendatory 
advertisement of it is already published — that a certain 
relation of your humble servant has written a tract, now 
in the press, to prove polygamy a divine institution. A 
plurality of wives is intended, but not of husbands. The 
end proposed by the author is to remedy the prevailing 
practice of adultery by making the female delinquent pro 
facto the lawful wife of the male. 

The officer of a regiment, part of which is quartered 
here, gave one of the soldiers leave to be drunk six weeks, 
in hopes of curing him by satiety. He was drunk six 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 37 

weeks, and is so slill, as often as he can find an oppor- 
tunity. One vice may swallow up another, but no 
coroner in the state of ethics ever brought in his verdict, 
when a vice died, that it vi^^—felo de se. 

They who value the man are sorry for his book, the 
rest say — 

Solvuntur risu tabulae, tu missus abibis. 

Thanks for all you have done, and all you intend ; the 
biography will be particularly welcome. My truly affec- 
tionate respects attend you all. — Yours, 

Wm. Cowper. 

When you feel postage a burden, send me some franks. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

^^y 3» 1780. 
Dear Sir — You indulge me in such a variety of sub- 
jects, and allow me such a latitude of excursion in this 
scribbling employment, that I have no excuse for silence. 
I am much obliged to you for swallowing such boluses as 
I send you, for the sake of my gilding, and verily believe 
I am the only man alive from whom they would be 
welcome to a palate like yours. I wish I could make 
them more splendid than they are, more alluring to the 
eye at least, if not more pleasing to the taste ; but my 
leaf-gold is tarnished, and has received such a tinge from 
the vapours that are ever brooding over my mind, that I 
think it no small proof of your partiality to me that you 
will read my letters. I am not fond of long-winded 
metaphors ; I have always observed that they halt at the 
latter end of their progress, and so does mine. I deal 
much in ink, indeed, but not such ink as is employed by 
poets and writers of essays. Mine is a harmless fluid, 



/ 



38 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and guilty of no deceptions but such as may prevail with- 
out the least injury to the person imposed on. /J^raw 
mountains, valleys, woods, and streams, and ducks, and 
dab-chicks. I admire them myself, and Mrs. Unwin 
admires them ; and her praise and my praise put together 
are fame enough for me. Oh ! I could spend whole days 
and moonlight nights in feeding upon a lovely prospect I 
My eyes drink the rivers as they flow. If every human 
being upon earth could think, for one quarter of an hour, 
as I have done for many years, there might perhaps be 
many miserable men among them, but not an unawakened 
one would be found, from the Arctic to the Antarctic 
circle. At present, the difference between them and me 
is greatly to their advantage. I delight in baubles, and 
know them to be so ; for rested in, and viewed without a 
reference to their Author, what is the earth, what are the 
planets, what is the sun itself but a bauble ? Better for a 
man never to have seen them, or to see them with the 
eyes of a brute, stupid and unconscious of what he 
beholds, than not to be able to say, " The Maker of all 
these wonders is my friend 1" Their eyes have never 
been opened to see that they are trifles ; mine have been, 
and will be till they are closed for ever. They think a 
fine estate, a large conservatory, a hothouse rich as a 
West Indian garden, things of consequence ; visit them 
with pleasure, and muse upon them with ten times more. 
I am pleased with a frame of four lights, doubtful whether 
the few pines it contains will ever be worth a farthing; 
amuse myself with a greenhouse which Lord Bute's 
gardener could take upon his back and walk away with ; 
and when I have paid it the accustomed visit, and watered 
it, and given it air, I say to myself — "This is not mine, 
'tis a plaything lent me for the present ; I must leave it 
soon." W. C. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 39 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

July 27, 178a 

My dear Friend — k& two men sit silent, after having 
exhausted all their topics of conversation, one sa)rs, ** It 
is very fine weather ;" and the other says, ** Yes ;" one 
blows his nose, and the other rubs his eyebrows — by the 
way, this is very much in Homer*s manner : — such seems 
to be the case between you and me. After a silence of 
some dajrs, I wrote you a long something that, I suppose, 
was nothing to the purpose, because it has not afforded 
you materials for an answer. Nevertheless, as it often 
happens in the case above stated, one of the distressed 
parties, being deeply sensible of the awkwardness of a 
dumb duet, breaks silence again, and resolves to speak, 
though he has nothing to say. So it fares with me : I am 
with you again in the form of an epistle, though, con- 
sidering my present emptiness, I have reason to fear that 
your only joy upon the occasion will be, that it is con- 
veyed to you in a frank. 

When I began I expected no interruption. But if I 
had expected interruptions without end, I should have 
been less disappointed. First came the barber, who, 
after having embellished the outside of my head, has left 
the inside just as unfurnished as he found it. Then came 
Olney Bridge, not into the house, but into the conversa- 
tion. The cause relating to it was tried on Tuesday at 
Buckingham. The judge directed the jury to find a 
verdict favourable to Olney. The jury consisted of one 
knave and eleven fools. The last -mentioned followed 
the afore-mentioned, as sheep follow a bell-wether, and 
decided in direct opposition to the said judge. Then a 
flaw was discovered in the indictment. The indictment 
was quashed, and an order made for a new trial. The 



40 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

new trial will be in the King's Bench, where said knave 
and said fools will have nothing to do with it. So the 
men of Olney fling up their caps, and assure themselves 
of a complete victory. A victory will save me and your 
mother many shillings, perhaps some pounds, which, 
except that it has afforded me a subject to write upon, 
was the only reason why I have said so much about it I 
know you take an interest in all that concerns us, and 
will consequently rejoice with us in the prospect of an 
event in which we are concerned so nearly. 

I will say of that book what I never said, and what no 
man ought to say of any other, that I could answer it with- 
out reading it, deriving all my arguments from principles 
of mere humanity, fidelity, and domestic expediency. My 
respects with your mother's love attend yourself and the 
ladies ; the children are never forgot. — Yours affectionately, 

W. C. 

My franks are out. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

August 9\, zySa 
The following occurrence ought not to be passed over 
in silence, in a place where so few notable ones are to be 
met with. Last Wednesday night, while we were at 
supper, between the hours of eight and nine, I heard an 
unusual noise in the back parlour, as if one of the hares 
was entangled, and endeavouring to disengage herself. 
I was just going to rise from table when it ceased. In 
about five minutes a voice on the outside of the parlour 
door inquired if one of my hares had got away. I im- 
mediately rushed into the next room, and found that my 
poor favourite Puss had made her escape. She had 
gnawed in sunder the strings of the lattice-work, with 
which I thought I had sufficiently secured the window. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 4 1 

and which I preferred to any other sort of blind, because 
it admitted plenty of air. From thence I hastened to the 
kitchen, where I saw the redoubtable Thomas Freeman, 
who told me, that having seen her, just after she dropped 
into the street, he attempted to cover her with his hat, 
but she screamed out, and leaped directly over his head. 
I then desired him to pursue as fast as possible, and added 
Richard Coleman to the chase, as being nimbler, and 
carrying less weight than Thomas ; not expecting to see 
her again, but desirous to learn, if possible, what be- v 
came of her. In something less than an hour Richard / 
returned, almost breathless, with the following account : 
That soon after he began to run, he left Tom behind him, 
and came in sight of a most numerous hunt of men, 
women, children, and dogs ; that he did his best to keefp 
back the dogs, and presently outstripped the crowd^so 
that the race was at last disputed between himself and 
Puss — she ran right through the town, and down the 
lane that leads to Dropshort— a little before she came to 
the house, he got the start and turned her ; she pushed 
for the town again, and soon after she entered it sought 
shelter in Mr. Wagstaff*s tariyard, adjoining to old Mr. 
Drake's — Sturge's harvest men were at supper, and saw 
her from the opposite side of the way. There she en- 
countered the tan-pits full of water ; and while she was 
struggling out of one pit and plunging into another, and 
almost drowned, one of the men drew her out by the ears 
and secured her. She was then well washed in a bucket, 
to get the lime out of her coat, and brought home in a 
sack at ten o'clock. 

This frolic cost us four shillings, but you may believe 
we did not grudge a farthing of it. The poor creature 
received only a little hurt in one of her claws, and in one 
of her ears, and is now almost as well as ever. 

I do not call this an answer to your letter, but such as 



42 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

it is I send it, presuming upon that interest which I know 

you take in my minutest concerns, which I cannot express l 

better than in the words of Terence a little varied — Nihil 

met a ie alienumpuias, — Yours, my dear friend, 

W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

January ai, 1781. 

My Dear Sir — I am glad that the Progress of Error 
did not err in its progress, as I feared it had ; and that 
it has reached you safe; and still more pleased that it 
has met with your approbation ; for if it had not I should 
have wished it had miscarried, and had been sorry that 
the bearer's memory had served him so well upon the 
occasion. I knew him to be that sort of genius which, 
being busied in making excursions of the imaginary kind, 
is not always present to its own immediate concerns, 
much less to those of others ; and having reposed the 
trust in him, began to regret that I had done so, when it 
was too late. But I did it to save a frank, and as the 
affair has turned out, that end was very well answered. 
This is committed to the hands of a less volatile person, 
and therefore more to be depended on. 

As to the poem called Truths which is already longer 
than its elder brother, and is yet to be lengthened by the 
addition of perhaps twenty lines, perhaps more, I shrink 
from the thought of transcribing it at present. But as 
there is no need to be in any hurry about it, I hope that 
in some rainy season, which the next mouth will probably 
bring with it, when perhaps I may be glad of employ- 
ment, the undertaking will appear less formidable. 

I suppose you know that Mr. Scott will be in town on 
Tuesday. He is likely to take possession of the vicarage 
at last, with the best grace possible ; at least, if he and 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 43 

Mr. Browne can agree upon the terms. The old gentle- 
man, I find, would be glad to let the house and abridge 
the stipend ; in other words, to make a good bargain for 
himself, and starve his curate. — Yours, my dear friend, 

Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

February 6, 1781. 

My Dear Friend — It is high time you should consult 
your own peace of mind, and not sufier the insatiable 
demands and unreasonable expectations of other men to 
be a source of unhappiness to yourself. You have lived 
long enough in the world to know that it swarms with 
people who are always ready to take advantage of the 
generosity of such men as you ; who say in their hearts, 
when they meet with such disinterested treatment as 
every one receives from your hands : "Now is the time ; — 
the man has a gentlemanly regard for his character, he 
loves peace more than money, and will make any con- 
cessions, so that he may but approve himself to his own 
conscience. Let us squeeze him ; he will yield well ; the 
more he complies the more we will insist, and make him 
pay dear for the character he wishes to deserve." I can- 
not doubt but your predecessor's curate is of this stamp ; 
his demand wants nothing but a cocked pistol to make it 
felony, without benefit of clergy. 

As to your proposal to the executors, if it does not 
give contentment, it must be for the reasons above men- 
tioned ; in which case I would recommend it to you by 
all means, to pay them exactly what they can lawfully 
demand for glebe and tithe, and not a farthing more, and 
in return to insist upon every penny you lay out in neces- 
sary repairs, and not a farthing less. It is wrong not to 



44 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

deal liberally with persons who themselves act upon 
liberal and honest principles; but it is weakness to be 
the willing dupe of artifice, and to sacrifice one's own 
interest for the sake of satisfying the insatiable or unjust 

We are obliged to you for the rugs, a commodity that 
can never come to such a place as this at an unseasonable 
time. We have given one to an industrious poor widow 
with four children whose sister overheard her shivering in 
the night, and with some difficulty brought her to confess 
the next morning that she was half perished for want of 
sufficient covering. Her said sister borrowed a rug for 
her at a neighbour's immediately, which she had used 
but one night when yours arrived. And I doubt not but 
we shall meet with others equally indigent, and deserving 
of your bounty. 

I hear this morning, via tonsorisy that Lord George [Gor- 
don] is acquitted. I take it for granted you feasf at the trial, 
for three reasons : First, because youVaAin town so lately ; 
Secondly, because you have a laudable curiosity, that acts 
as a spur upon your spirits on all such occasions ; and 
Thirdly, because you are slender and slim, and take up 
so little room that you are sure of a place when men of 
ampler dimensions are necessarily excluded. Tell us all 
that passed ; and if he is indeed acquitted, let us know 
upon what point his acquittal turned, for at present I am 
rather at a loss to conceive how he could escape if the 
law was allowed to take its course, uninterrupted by fear 
and uncontrolled by a spirit of party. 

Much good may your humanity do you, as it does so 
much good to others. You can nowhere find objects 
more entitled to your pity than where your pity seeks 
them. A man whose vices and irregularities have 
brought his liberty and life into danger will always be 
viewed with an eye of compassion by those who under- 
stand what human nature is made of. And while we 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 45 

acknowledge the severity of the law to be founded upon 
principles of necessity and justice, and are glad that there 
is such a barrier provided for the peace of society, if we 
consider that the difference between ourselves and the 
culprit is not of our own making, we shall be, as you are, 
tenderly affected with the view of his misery, and not the 
less so because he has brought it upon himself. I look 
upon the worst man in Chelmsford gaol with a more 
favourable eye than upon a certain curate, who claims a 
servant's wages from one who never was his master. 

What goes before was written in the morning. This 
evening I have read the trial as related in the General 
Evening, and can only add to what I said before, in the 
words of Horace — 

— *- *' Miror quo facto judicium Ulud fugerit." 

I give you joy of your own hair. No doubt you are a 
considerable gainer in your appearance by being disperi- 
wigged. The best wig is that which most resembles the 
natural hair ; why then should he that has hair enough 
of his own have recourse to imitation? I have little 
doubt but that if an arm or a leg could have been taken 
off with as little pain as attends the amputation of a curl 
or a lock of hair, the natural limb would have been 
thought less becoming, or less convenient, by some men, 
than a wooden one, and have been disposed of accordingly. 

Thanks for the salmon ; it was perfectly good, as were 
the two lobsters ; and the two guineas came safe. Having 
some verses to transcribe, and being rather weary, I add 
no more, except our love to the whole family, jointly and 
severally. Having begun my letter with a miserable 
pen, I was not willing to change it for a better, lest my 
writing should not be all of a piece, but it has w(»rn me 
and my patience quite out. — Yours ever, 

Wm. Cowper. 



46 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

Olnby, February 3, 1781. 
My dear Friend — It is possible that Mrs. Hill may not 
be herself a suflFerer by the late terrible catastrophe^ in the 
Islands, but I should suppose by her correspondence 
with those parts she may be connected with some that 
are. In either case, I condole with her ; for it is reason- 
able to imagine that, since the first tour that Columbus 
made into the Western world, it never before experienced 
such a convulsion, perhaps never since the foundation of 
the globe. You say that the state grows old, and discovers 
many symptoms of decline. A writer possessed of a 
genius for h3rpothesis, like that of Burnet, might construct 
a plausible argument to prove that the world itself is in a 
state of superannuation, if there be such a word. If not, 
there must be such a one as superannuity. When that 
just equilibrium which has hitherto supported all things 
seems to fail, when the elements burst the chain that had 
bound them, the wind sweeping away the works of man, 
and man himself together with his works, and the ocean 
seeming to overleap the command, "Hitherto shalt thou 
come and no further, and here shall thy proud waves be 
stayed," — ^these irregular and prodigious vagaries seemed 
to bespeak a decay, and forebode, perhaps, not a very 
distant dissolution. This thought has so run away with 
my attention that I have left myself no room for the 
little politics that have only Great Britain for their object. 
Who knows but that while a thousand and ten thousand 
tongrues are employed in adjusting the scale of our national 
concerns, in complaining of new taxes, and funds loaded 
with the debt of accumulating millions, the consummation 

1 The most destructive hurricane ever remembered in the West 
Indies. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 47 

of all things may discharge it in a moment, and the scene 
of all this bustle disappear, as if it had never been. 
Charles Fox would say, perhaps, he thought it very 
unlikely. I question if he could prove even that. I am 
sure, however, he could not prove it to be Impossible. — 
Yours, W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

Olney, February i8, 1781. 
My dear Friend — I send you Table Talk, It is a 
medley of many things, some that may be useful, and 
some that, for ought I know, may be very diverting. I 
am merry that I may decoy people into my company, and 
grave that they may be the better for it. Now and then 
I put on the garb of a philosopher, and take the oppor- 
tunity that disguise procures me to drop a word in favour 
of religion. In short, there is some froth, and here and 
there a bit of sweetmeat, which seems to entitle it justly 
to the name of a certain dish the ladies call a trifle. I 
did not choose to be more facetious, lest I should consult 
the taste of my readers at the expense of my own appro- 
bation ; nor more serious than I have been, lest I should 
forfeit theirs. A poet in my circumstances has a difficult 
part to act : one minute obliged to bridle his humour, if 
he has any ; and the next to clap a spur to the sides of it ; 
now ready to weep from a sense of the importance of his 
subject, and on a sudden constrained to laugh, lest his 
gravity should be mistaken for dulness. If this be not 
violent exercise for the mind, I know not what is ; and if 
any man doubt it, let him try. Whether all this manage- 
ment and contrivance be necessary I do not know, but 
am inclined to suspect that if my nurse was to go forth 
clad in Quaker colour, without one bit of riband to en- 



'■>' 



...A 



48 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

liven her appearance, she might walk from one end of 
London to the other as little noticed as if she were one 
of the sisterhood indeed. 

You had been married thirty-one years last Monday. 
When you married I was eighteen years of age, and had 
just left Westminster school. At that time I valued a 
man according to his proficiency and taste in classical 
literature, and had the meanest opinion of all other ac- 
complishments unaccompanied by that. I lived to see 
the vanity of what I had made my pride, and in a few 
years found that there were other attainments which 
would carry a man more handsomely through life than 
a mere knowledge of what Homer and Virgil had left 
behind them. In measure as my attachment to these 
gentry wore off, I found a more welcome reception 
among those whose acquaintance it was more my interest 
to cultivate. But all this time was spent in painting a 
piece of wood that had no life in it. At last, I began to 
think indeed ; I found myself in possession of many 
baubles, but not one grain of solidity in all my treasures. 
Then I learned the truth, and then I lost it, and there 
ends my history. I would no more than you wish to live 
such a life over again, but for one .reason. He that is 
carried to execution, though through the roughest road, 
when he arrives at the destined spot would be glad, not- 
withstanding the many jolts he met with, to repeat his 
journey. — ^Yours, my dear Sir, with our joint love, 

W. C. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

February 27, 1781. 
My dear Friend — In the first place my paper is in- 
sufferably bad, so that though this is the second sheet on 
which I have begun to write, and taken from another 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 49 

quire, I can hardly flatter in3rself that I shall be able to 
persevere to the end of it 

I thank you for your relation of Mr. Fytche's dispute 
with the Bishop ; it aifords matter for some reflections 
not altogether favourable to the episcopal order, as it is 
easy to see that if his Lordship had tfte power, he does 
not want the inclination to use the thunder of the Vatican, 
and anathematise a poor gentleman that dares to oppose 
him, without mercy. I know not in what part of Scrip- 
ture he will find it revealed that a patron, by taking a 
bond of resignation from the person he presents, for- 
feits all hope of mercy in this world and that which is to 
come. Yet he asserts it as gravely as if he knew it to 
be true ; but the laity at this time of day are wiser than 
when they gave their bishops credit for omnipotence ; 
that cheat will pass no longer. 

Alas, poor Vestris ! what a pitiable object, how truly 
French in his humiliation, when he bowed his head down 
to the stage and held it there, as if he never meant to 
raise it more ! As humble in his abasement as exalted 
in his capers, equally French in both. Which is most 
entitled to compassion, the dancer who is obliged, at the 
expense of all that is called dignity in man, to stoop to 
the arbitrary requisitions of an enraged assembly, or that 
assembly themselves who think it worth their while to 
spend hours in bellowing for satisfaction from the conces- 
sions of a dancer? Considering that life does not last 
for ages, and they know it, it is not unreasonable to say 
that both he and they might set a higher value upon 
their time, and devote it to a better purpose. It is 
possible, too, you may think, that the maker of this wise 
reflection might himself have been better employed than 
in writing what follows upon the subject I subscribe to 
the truth of the animadversion, and can only say, in my 
excuse, that the composition is short, did not cost me 

E 



50 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

much time, and may perhaps provoke a longer, which is 
not always useless. If you please, you may send it to 
the Poet's Corner : — 

[A Card, PoentSf p. 336.] 

I have not forgot, though when I wrote last I did not 
think of answering, your kind invitation. I can only say 
at present that Stock shall be my first visit, but that 
visiting at this time would be attended with insupportable 
awkwardness to me, and with such as the visited them- 
selves would assuredly feel the weight of. My witticisms 
are only current upon paper now, and that sort of paper 
currency must serve, like the Congress dollars, for want 
of the more valuable coin — myself. 

We thank you for the intended salmon, and beg you 
would get yourself made Bishop of Chichester as soon as 
possible, that we may have to thank you for every kind 
of eatable fish the British coast produces. — Yours ever, 

Wm. Cowper. 

I have hurried to the end as fast as possible, being 
weary of a letter that is one continued blot. 



TO THE SAME. 

May I, 1781. 
Your mother says I must write, and tnust admits of 
no apology ; I might otherwise plead that I have nothing 
to say, that I am weary, that I am dull, that it would be 
more convenient therefore for you, as well as for myself, 
that I should let it alone ; but all these pleas, and what- 
ever pleas besides either disinclination, indolence, or 
necessity might suggest, are overruled, as they ought to 
be, the moment a lady adduces her irrefragable argument, 
you must. You have still, however, one comfort left, 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 5 1 

that what I must write you may, or may not, read, just 
as it shall please you ; unless Lady Anne at your elbow 
should say you must read it, and then, like a true knight, 
you will obey without looking out for a remedy. 

I do not love to harp upon strings that, to say the least, 
are not so musical as one would wish, but you I know have 
many a time sacrificed your own feelings to those of others, 
and where an act of charity leads you, are not easily put 
out of your way. This consideration encourages me just to 
insinuate that your silence on the subject of a certain nomina- 
tion is distressful to more than you would wish ; in par- 
ticular to the little boy whose clothes are outgrown and 
worn out ; and to his mother, who is unwilling to furnish 
him with a new suit, having reason to suppose that the 
long blue petticoat would soon supersede it if she should. 

In the press, and speedily will be published, in one 
volume octavo, price three shillings, Poems, by William 
Cowper, of the Inner Temple, Esq. You may suppose, 
by the size of the publication, that the greatest part of 
them have been long kept secret, because you yourself 
have never seen them ; but the truth is, that they are most 
of them, except what you have in your possession, the 
produce of the last winter. Two-thirds of the compila- 
tion will be occupied by four pieces, the first of which 
sprung up in the month of December, and the last of them 
in the month of March. They contain, I suppose, in all 
about two thousand and five hundred lines ; are known, or 
are to be known in due time, by the names of Table-Talk, 
The Progress of Error, Truth, Expostulation. Mr. New- ' 
ton writes a Preface, and Johnson is the publisher. The 
principal, I may say the only, reason why I never 
mentioned to you, till now, an affair which I am just 
going to make known to all the world (if that Mr. All- 
the-world should think it worth his knowing), has been 
this, — that, till within these few days, I had not the 



52 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

honour to know it myself. This may seem strange, but 
it is true ; for, not knowing where to find underwriters 
who would choose to insure them, and not finding it 
convenient to a purse like mine to run any hazard, even 
upon the credit of my own ingenuity, I was very much in 
doubt for some weeks whether any bookseller would be 
willing to subject himself to an ambiguity that might 
prove very expensive in case of a bad market. But 
Johnson has heroically set all peradventures at defiance, 
and takes the whole charge upon himself. So out I 
come. I shall be glad of my Translations from Vincent 
Bourne in your next frank. My muse will lay herself at 
your feet immediately on her first public appearance. — 
Yours, my dear friend, with your mother's love, 

W. C. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

Maygt 1781. 

My dear Sir — I am in the press, and it is vain to 
deny it. But how mysterious is the conveyance of intel- 
ligence from one end to the other of your great city I 
Not many days since, except one man, and he but little 
taller than yourself, all London was ignorant of it ; for I 
do not suppose that the public prints have yet announced 
the most agreeable tidings ; the title-page, which is the 
basis of the advertisement, having so lately reached the 
publisher ; and now it is known to you, who live at least 
two miles distant from my confidant upon the occasion. 

My labours are principally the production of the last 
winter ; all, indeed, except a few of the minor pieces. 
When . I can find no other occupation I think, and when 
I think I am very apt to do it in rhyme. Hence it comes 
to pass, that the season of the year which generally pinches 
off the flowers of poetry unfolds mine, such as they are, 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 53 

and crowns me with a winter garland. In this respect, 
therefore, I and my contemporary bards are by no means 
upon a par./ They write when the delightful influences 
of fine weaihsU'^^ prospects, and a brisk motion of the 
animal spirits, make poetry almost the language of Nature ; 
and I, when icicles depend from all the leaves of the 
Parnassian laurel, and when a reasonable man would as 
little expect to succeed in verse as to hear a blackbird 
whistle. This must be my apology to you for whatever 
want of fire and animation you may observe in what you 
will shortly have the perusal of. As to the public, if 
they like me not, there is no remedy. A friend will 
weigh and consider all disadvantages, and make as large 
allowances as an author can wish, and larger, perhaps, 
than he has any right to expect ; but not so the world at 
large ; whatever they do not like they will not by any 
apology be persuaded to forgive, and it would be in vain 
to tell tAem that I wrote my verses in January, for they 
would immediately reply, "Why did you not write them 
in May ?" A question that might puzzle a wiser head 
than we poets are generally blessed with. W. C. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

May 10, 1781. 

My dear Friend — It is Friday ; I have just drunk 
tea, and just perused your letter ; and, though this answer 
to it cannot set off till Sunday, I obey the warm impulse I 
feel, which will not permit me to postpone the business 
till the regular time of writing. 

I expected you would be grieved ; if you had not been 
so, those sensibilities which attend you upon every other 
occasion must have left you upon this. I am sorry that 
I have given you pain, but not sorry that you bsji^ feV^ 



54 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

it. A concern of that sort would be absurd, because it 
would be to regret your friendship for me, and to be dis- 
satisfied with the effect of it. Allow yourself, however, 
three minutes only for reflection, and your penetration 
must necessarily dive into th6 motives of my conduct. 
In the first place, and by way of preface, remember that 
I do not (whatever your partiality may incline you to do) 
account it of much consequence to any friend of mine, 
whether he is, or is not, employed by me upon such an 
occasion. But all affected renunciations of poetical merit 
apart (and all unaffected expressions of the sense I have 
of my own littleness in the poetical character too), the 
obvious and only reason why I resorted to Mr. New- 
ton, and not to my friend Unwin, was this — that the 
former lived in London, and the latter at Stock ; the 
former was upon the spot to correct the press, to give 
instructions respecting any sudden alterations, and to 
settle with the publisher everything that might possibly 
occur in the course of such a business ; the latter could 
not be applied to for these purposes without what I 
thought would be a manifest encroachment on his kind- 
ness ; .because it might happen that the troublesome office 
might cost him now and then a journey, which it was 
absolutely impossible for me to endure the thought of. 

When I wrote to you for the copies you have sent me, 
I told you I was making a collection, but not with a 
design to publish. There is nothing truer than that at 
that time I had not the smallest expectation of sending 
a volume of poems to the press. I had several small 
pieces that might amuse, but I would not, when I pub- 
lish, make the amusement of the reader my only object. 
When the winter deprived me of other employments, I 
began to compose, and seeing six or seven months before 
me, which would naturally afford me much leisure for 
such a purpose, I undertook a piece of some length ; 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 55 

that finished, another ; and so on, till I had amassed the 
number of lines I mentioned in my last. 

Believe of me what you please, but not that I am in- 
different to you, or your friendship for me, on any occasion. 
We have no franks. —Yours, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

May 23, 1 781. 

My dear Friend — If a writer's friends have need of 
patience, how much more the writer I Your desire to 
see my muse in public, and mine to gratify you, must 
both suffer the mortification of delay. I expected that 
my trumpeter would have informed the world by this 
time of all that is needful for them to know upon such an 
occasion ; and that an advertising blast, blown through 
every newspaper, would have said — "The poet is 
coming ! " — But man, especially man that writes verse, 
is born to disappointments, as surely as printers and 
booksellers are born to be the most dilatory and tedious 
of all creatures. The plain English of this magnificent 
preamble is, that the season of publication is just elapsed, 
that the town is going into the country every day, and 
that my book cannot appear till they return, — that is to 
say, not till next winter. This misfortune, however, 
comes not without its attendant advantage : I shall now 
have, what I should not otherwise have had, an oppor- 
tunity to correct the press myself ; no small advantage 
upon any occasion, but especially important wherie poetry 
is concerned I A single erratum may knock out the 
brains of a whole passage, and that perhaps which, of all 
others, the unfortunate poet is the most proud of. Add 
to this, that now and then there is to be found in a print- 
ing house a presumptuous intermeddler, who will fancy 
himself a poet too, and what is still worse, a better than 



56 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

he that employs him. The consequence is, that with 
cobbling, and tinkering, and patching on here and there 
a shred of his own, he makes such a difference between 
the original and the copy, that an author cannot know 
his own work again. Now, as I choose to be responsible 
for nobody's dulness but my own, I am a little comforted 
when I reflect that it will be in my power to prevent all 
such impertinence ; and yet not without your assistance. 
It will be quite necessary that the correspondence be- 
tween me and Johnson should be carried on without the 
expense of postage, because proof-sheets would make 
double or treble letters, which expense, as in every 
instance it must occur twice, first when the packet is 
sent, and again when it is returned, would be rather 
inconvenient to me, who, you perceive, am forced to 
live by my wits, and to him, who hopes to get a little 
matter no doubt by the same means. Half a dozen 
franks therefore to me, and totidem to him, will be singu- 
larly acceptable, if you can, without feeling it in any 
respect a trouble, procure them for me — Johnson, Book- 
seller, S. Paul's Churchyard. 

My neckcloths being all worn out, I intend to wear 
stocks, but not unless they are more fashionable than the 
former. In that case, I shall be obliged to you if you 
will buy me a handsome stock -buckle for a very little 
money; for twenty or twenty-five shillings perhaps a 
second-hand affair may be purchased that will make a 
figure at Olney. 

I am much obliged to you for your offer to support me 
in a translation of Bourne. It is but seldom, however, 
and never, except for my amusement, that I translate, 
because I find it disagreeable to work by another man's 
pattern ; I should at least be sure to find it so in a busi- 
ness of any length. Again, that is epigrammatic and 
witty in Latin which would be perfectly insipid in 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 57 

English; and a translator of Bourne would frequently 
find himself obliged to supply what is called the turn, 
which is in fact the most difficult and the most expensive 
part of the whole composition, and could not perhaps, in 
many instances, be done with any tolerable success. If 
a Latin poem is neat, elegant, and musical, it is enough ; 
but English readers are not so easily satisfied. To quote 
mjrself, you will find, on coinparing the Jackdaw with the 
original, that I was obliged to sharpen a point which, 
though smart enough in the Latin, would, in English, 
have appeared as plain and blunt as the tag of a lace. 
I love the memory of Vinny Bourne. I think him a 
better Latin poet than Tibullus, Propertius, Ausonius, or 
any of the writers in his way, except Ovid, and not at all 
inferior to him* I love him, too, with a love of partiality, 
because he was usher of the fifth form at Westminster 
when I passed through it He was so good-natured, and 
so indolent, that I lost more than I got by him ; for he 
made me as idle as himself. He was such a sloven, as if 
he had trusted to his genius as a cloak for everything that 
could disgust you in his person ; and indeed in his writ- 
ings he has almost made amends for all. His humour is 
entirely original ; he can speak of a magpie or a cat in 
terms so exquisitely appropriated to the character he 
draws, that one would suppose him animated by the 
spirit of the creature he describes. And with all this 
drollery there is a mixture of rational, and even religious, 
reflection at times, and always an air of pleasantry, 
good-nature, and humanity, that makes him, in my mind, 
one of the most amiable writers in the world. It is not 
common to meet with a writer who can make you smile, 
and yet at nobody's expense ; who is always entertain- 
ing, and yet always harmless ; and who, though always 
elegant, and classical to a degree not always found even in 
the classics themselves, charms more by the simplicity 



58 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and playfulness of his ideas, than by the neatness and 
purity of his verse ; yet such was poor Vinny. I remem- 
ber seeing the Duke of Richmond set fire to his greasy 
locks, and box his ears to put it out again. 

I am delighted with your project, but not with the 
view I have of its success. If the world would form its 
opinion of the clerical character at large, from yours in 
particular, I have no doubt but the event would be as 
prosperous as you could wish. But I suppose there is 
not a member of either house who does not see within 
the circle of his own acquaintance a minister, perhaps 
many ministers, whose integrity would contribute but 
little to the effects of such a bill. Here are seven or eight 
in the neighbourhood of Olney who have shaken hands 
with sobriety, and who would rather suppress the Church, 
were it not for the emoluments annexed, than discourage 
the sale of strong beer in a single instance. Were I 
myself in Parliament, I am not sure that I could favour 
your scheme ; are there not to be found within five miles 
of almost every neighbourhood, parsons who would pur- 
chase well accustomed public-houses, because they could 
secure them a license, and patronise them when they had 
done ? I think no penalty would prevent the abuse, on 
account of the difficulty of proof, and that no ingenuity 
could guard against all the possible abuses. To sum up 
all in a few words, the generality of the clergy, especially 
within these last twenty or thirty years, have worn their 
circingles so loose, that I verily believe no measure that 
proposed an accession of privilege to an order which the 
laity retain but little respect for would meet with the 
countenance of the Legislature. You will do me the 
justice to suppose that I do not say these things to gratify 
a splenetic humour or a censorious turn of mind ; far 
from it, — it may add, perhaps, to the severity of the 
foregoing observations to assert, but if it does, I cannot 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 59 

help asserting, that I verily believe them to be founded 
upon fact, and that I am sure, partly from my own 
knowledge, and partly from the report of those whose 
veracity I can depend upon, that in this part of the world 
at least, many of the most profligate characters are the 
very men to whom the morals, and even the souls, of 
others are entrusted ; and I cannot suppose that the 
diocese of Lincoln, or this part of it in particular, is more 
unfortunate in that respect than the rest of the kingdom. 

Since I began to write long poems I seem to turn up 
my nose at the idea of a short one. I have lately entered 
upon one, which, if ever finished, cannot easily be com- 
prised in much less than a thousand lines ! But this 
must make part of a second publication, and be accom- 
panied in due time by others not yet thought of; for it 
seems (which I did not know until the bookseller had 
occasion to tell me so) that single pieces stand no chance, 
and that nothing less than a volume will go down. You 
yourself afford me a proof of the certainty of this intelli- 
gence by sending me franks which nothing less than a 
volume can fill. I have accordingly sent you one, but 
am obliged to add, that had the wind been in any other 
point of the compass, or, blowing as it does from the east, 
had it been less boisterous, you must have been contented 
with a much shorter letter, but the abridgment of every 
other occupation is very favourable to that of writing. 

Our love attends all the family at Stock. I am glad I 
did not expect to hear from you by this post, for the boy 
has lost the bag in which your letter must have been 
enclosed ; — another reason for my prolixity ! — Yours 
affectionately, Wm. Cowper. 

TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

July 12, 1781. 

My VERY DEAR Friend — I am going to send, what 



/ 

I 

i 



I 

i 



I 

I 

! 



60 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

when you have read, you may scratch your head, and 
say, I suppose, there's nobody knows, whether what I 
have got, be verse or not — by the tune and the time, it 
ought to be rhyme ; but if it be, did you ever see, 6f late 
or of yore, such a ditty before ? 

I have writ Charity , not for popularity, but as well as 
I could, in hopes to do good ; and if the reviewer should 
say, ** To be sure, the gentleman's muse, wears Methodist 
shoes ; you may know by her pace, and talk about grace, 
that she and her bard have little regard, for the taste and 
fashions, and ruling passions, and hoydening play, of the 
modem day ; and though she assume a borrowed plume, 
/ and now and then wear a tittering air, 'tis only her plan 

to catch, if she can, the giddy and gay, as they go that 
way, by a production, on a new construction ; she has 
baited her trap, in hopes to snap all that may come, with 
/ a sugar plum." — His opinion in this will not be amiss; 
'tis what I intend, my principal end ; and if I succeed, 
and folks should read, till a few are brought to a serious 
thought, I shall think I am paid, for all I have said, and 
all I have done, though I have run, many a time, after a 
rhyme, as far as from hence to the end of my sense, and 
by hook or crook, write another book, if I live and am 
here, another year. 

I have heard before, of a room with a floor, laid upon 
springs, and such like things, with so much art, in every 
part, that when you went in, you was forced to b^n a 
minuet pace, with an air and a grace, swimming about, 
now in and now out, with a deal of state, in a fig^ure of 
eight, without pipe or string, or any such thing ; and now 
I have writ, in a rhyming fit, what will make you dance, 
and as you advance, will keep you still, though against 
your will, dancing away, alert and gay, till you come to 
an end of what I have penned ; which that you may do, 
ere Madam and you are quite worn out with jigging 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 

about, I take my leave, and here you receive si 
found, down to the ground, from your humble n^ 

\ 



TO THE SAME. 

Aujgytst x6, X78X. 

My dear Friend — I might date my letter from the 
greenhouse, which we have converted into a summer 
parlour. The walls hung with garden mats, and the 
floor covered with a carpet, it affords us by far the 
pleasantest retreat in Olney. We eat, drink, and sleep 
where we always did ; but here we spend all the rest of 
our time, and find that the sound of the wind in the trees 
and the singing of birds are much more agreeable to our 
ears than the incessant barking of dogs and screaming of 
children. Not to mention the exchange of a sweet 
smelling garden for the putrid exhalations of Silver End, 
It is an observation that naturally occurs upon the occa 
sion, and which many other occasions furnish an oppor 
tunity to make, that people long for what they have not 
and overlook the good in their possession. This is so 
true in the present instance, that for years past I should 
have thought myself happy to enjoy a retirement even 
less flattering to my natural taste than this in which I am 
now writing ; and have often looked wistfully at a §nug 
cottage, which, on account of its situation at a distance 
from noise and disagreeable objects, seemed to promise 
me all I could wish or expect, so far as happiness may 
be said to be local, never once adverting to this com- 
fortable nook, which affords me all that could be found 
in the most sequestered hermitage, with the advantage of 
having all those accommodations at hand which no her- 
mitage could possibly afford me. People imagine they 
should be happy in circumstances which they would feel 



62 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

insupportably burthensome in less than a week. A man 
that has been clothed in fine linen, and fared sumptuously 
every day, envies the peasant under a thatched hovel; 
who, in return, envies him as much his palace and his 
pleasure-ground. Could they change situations, the fine 
gentleman would find his ceilings too low, and that his 
casements admitted too much wind ; that he had no cellar 
for his wine, and no wine to put in his cellar. These, 
with a thousand other mortifying deficiencies, would 
shatter his romantic project into innumerable fragments 
in a moment. The clown, at the same time, would find 
the accession of so much unwieldy treasure an encum- 
brance quite incompatible with an • hour's ease. His 
choice would be puzzled by variety. He would drink to 
excess, because he would foresee no end to his abundance ; 
and he would eat himself sick for the same reason. He 
would have no idea of any other happiness than sensual 
gratification ; would make himself a beast, and die of his 
good fortune. The rich gentleman had perhaps, or might 
have had, if he pleased, at the shortest notice, just such a 
recess as this ; but if he had it, he overlooked it, or, if he 
had it not, forgot that he might command it whenever he 
would. The rustic, too, was actually in possession of 
some blessings, which he was a fool to relinquish, but 
which he could neither see nor feel, because he had the 
daily and constant use of them; such as good health, 
bodily strength, a head and a heart that never ached, 
and temperance, to the practice of which he was bound 
by necessity, that, humanely speaking, was a pledge and 
a security for the continuance of them all. 

Thus I have sent you a schoolboy's theme. When I 
write to you I do not write without thinking, but alwa)rs 
without premeditation ; the consequence is, that such 
thoughts as pass through my head when I am not writing 
make the subject of my letters to you 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 63 

Johnson sent me lately a sort of apology for his printer's 
negligence, with his promise of greater diligence for the 
future. There was need enough of both. I have received 
but one sheet since you left us. Still, indeed, I see that 
there is time enough before us ; but I see likewise that no 
length of time can be sufficient for the accomplishment of 
a work that does not go forward. I know not yet whether 
he will add " Conversation " to those poems already in 
his hand, nor do I care much. No man ever wrote such 
quantities of verse, as I have written this last year, with 
so much indifference about the event, or rather, with so 
little ambition of public praise. My pieces are such as 
may possibly be made useful. The more they are ap- 
proved, the more likely they are to spread, and con- 
sequently the more likely to attain the end of usefulness, 
which, as I said once before, except my present amuse- ^ 
ment, is the only end I propose. And even in the pur- 
suit of this purpose, commendable as it is in itself, I have 
not the spur I should once have had ; — my labour must go 
imrewarded, and, as Mr. Raban once said, I am raising a 
scaffold before a house that others are to live in, and not I. 

I have left myself no room for politics, which I thought, 
when I began, would have been my principal theme. 

Mr. Symonds's letters certainly are not here. Our 
servants never touch a paper without leave, and are so 
observant of our injunction in this particular, that, unless 
I bum the covers of the news, they accumulate till they 
make a litter. — ^Yours, my dear Sir, 

Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE SAME. 

August 21, X781. 

My dear Friend — You wish you could employ your 
time to better purpose, yet are never idle. In all that 



64 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

you say or do ; whether you are alone, or pay visits, or 
receive them ; whether you think or write, or walk or sit 
still — the state of your mind is such as discovers even to 
yourself, in spite of all its wanderings, that there is a 
principle at bottom whose determined tendency is towards 
the best things. I do not at all doubt the truth of what 
you say, when you complain of that crowd of trifling 
thoughts that pesters you without ceasing ; but then you 
always have a serious thought standing at the door of 
your imagination, like a justice of the peace, with the Riot 
Act in his hand, ready to read it, and disperse the mob. 
Here lies the difference between you and me. My thoughts 
are clad in a sober livery, for the most part as grave as 
that of a bishop's servants. They turn, too, upon spiritual 
subjects, but the tallest fellow, and the loudest among 
them all, is he who is continually crying with a loud 
voice. Actum est de te ; periistil You wish for more at- 
tention, I for less. Dissipation itself would be welcome 
to me so it were not a vicious one ; but however earnestly 
invited, is coy, and keeps at a distance. Yet with all 
this distressing gloom upon my mind I experience, as 
you do, the slipperiness of the present hour, and the 
rapidity with which time escapes me. Everything 
around us, and everything that befalls us, constitutes a 
variety, which, whether agreeable or otherwise, has still 
a thievish propensity, and steals from us days, months, 
and years^ with such unparalleled address that even while 
we say they are here, they are gone. [From infancy to 
manhood is rather a tedious period, chiefly, X suppose, 
because at that time we act under the control of others, 
and are not suffered to have a will of our ownTl But 
thence downward into the vale of years is such a de- 
clivity that we have just an opportunity to reflect upon 
the steepness of it, and then find ourselves at the bottom. 
Here is a new scene opening, which, whether it per- 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 

form what it promises or not, will add fresh plumes to 
the wings of time, — at least while it continues to be a 
subject of contemplation. If the project takes effect, a 
thousand varieties will attend the change it will make in 
our situation at Olney. If not, it will serve, however, to 
speculate and converse on, and steal away many hours, 
by engaging our attention, before it be entirely dropped. 
Lady Austen, very desirous of retirement, especially of a 
retirement near her sister, an admirer of Mr. Scott as a 
preacher, and of your two humble servants now in the" 
greenhouse as the most agreeable creatures in the world, 
is at present determined to settle here. That part of 
our great building which is at present occupied by Dick 
Coleman, his wife, child, and a thousand rats, is the 
comer of the world she chooses above all others as the 
place of her future residence. Next spring twelvemonth 
she begins to repair and beautify, and the following 
winter (by which time the lease of her house in town will 
determine) she intends to take possession. I am highly 
pleased with the plan, upon Mrs. Unwin's accoimt, 
who, since Mrs. Newton's departure, is destitute of all 
female connexion, and has not, in any emergency, a 
woman to speak to. Mrs. Scott is indeed in the neigh- 
bourhood, and an excellent person, but always engaged 
by a close attention to her family, and no more than 
ourselves a lover of visiting. But these things are all at 
present in the clouds. Two years must intervene, and in 
two years not only this project, but all the projects in 
Europe, may be disconcerted. 

[Cocoa-nut naught, Poems^ p. 336.] 
Yours, my dear Sir, W. C. 



LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE SAME. 

September g^ 1781, 
My dear Friend-^I am not willing to let the post 
set off without me, though I have nothing material to put 
into his bag. I am writing in the greenhouse, where 
my myrtles, ranged before the windows, make the most 
agreeable blind imaginable, where I am undisturbed by 
noise, and where I see none but pleasing objects. The 
situation is as favourable to my purpose as I could wish, 
but the state of my mind is not so, and the deficiencies I 
feel there are not to be remedied by the stillness of my re- 
tirement, or the beauty of the scene before me. I believe 
it is in part owing to the excessive heat of the weather that 
I find myself so much at a loss when I attempt either verse 
or prose ; my animal spirits are depressed, and dulness is 
the consequence. That dulness, however, is all at your 
service ; and the portion of it that is necessary to fill up the 
present epistle I send you without the least reluctance. 

I am sorry to find that the censure I passed upon 
Occiduus is even better founded than I supposed. Lady 
Austin has been at his sabbatical concerts, which, it 
seems, are composed of song-tunes and psalm-tunes indis- 
criminately; music without words — and I suppose one 
may say, consequently, without devotion. On a certain 
occasion, when her niece was sitting at her side, she 
asked his opinion concerning the lawfulness of such 
amusements as are to be found at Vauxhall or Ranelagh, 
meaning only to draw firom him a sentence of disapproba- 
tion, that Miss Green might be the better reconciled to 
the restraint under which she was held when she found 
it warranted by the judgment of so famous a divine. But 
she was disappointed ; he accounted them innocent, and 
recommended them as useful. Curiosity, he said, was 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 67 

natural to young persons ; and it was wrong to deny 
them a gratification which they might be indulged in 
with the greatest safety; because the denial being un- 
reasonable, the desire of it would still subsist. It was 
but a walk, and a walk was as harmless in one place as 
another ; with other arguments of a similar import, which 
might have proceeded with more grace, at least with less 
offence, from the lips of a sensual lajman. He seems, 
together with others of our acquaintance, to have suffered 
considerably in his spiritual character by his attachment 
to music. The lawfulness of it, when used with modera- 
tion, and in its proper place, is unquestionable; but I 
believe that wine itself, though a man be guilty of 
habitual intoxication, does not more debauch and befool 
the natural understanding than music, — alwa)rs music, 
music in season and out of season, — ^weakens and destroys 
the spiritual discernment. If it is not used with an un- 
feigned reference to the worship of God, and with a 
design to assist the soul in the performance of it, which 
cannot be the case when it is the only occupation, it 
degenerates into a sensual delight and becomes a most 
powerful advocate for the admission of other pleasures, 
grosser perhaps in degree, but in their kind the same. 

Mr. Monk, though a simple, honest, good man, — such, 
at least, he appears to us, — is not likely to give general 
satisfaction. He preaches the truth, it seems, but not the 
whole truth ; and a certain member of that church, who 
signed the letter of invitation, which was conceived in 
terms sufficiently encouraging, is likely to prove one of 
his most strenuous opposers. The little man, however, 
has an independent fortune, and has nothing to do but 
to trundle himself away to some other place where he 
may find hearers neither so nice nor so wise as we are at 
Olney. — Yours, my dear sir, with our united love, 

W. C. 



68 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE SAME. 
The Greknhouse, September 18, 1781. 

My dear Friend — I return your preface, with many 
thanks for so affectionate an introduction to the public. 
I have observed nothing that in my judgment required 
alteration except a single sentence in the first paragraph, 
which I have not obliterated, that you may restore it if 
you please, by obliterating my interlineation. My reason 
for proposing an amendment of it was, that your meaning 
did not strike me, which therefore I have endeavoured to 
make more obvious. The rest is what I would wish it to 
be. You say, indeed, more in my commendation than 
I can modestly say of myself, but something will be 
allowed to the partiality of friendship on so interesting 
an occasion. 

I have no objection in the world to your conveying a 
copy to Dr. Johnson ; though I well know that one of 
his pointed sarcasms, if he should happen to be displeased, 
would soon find its way into all companies, and spoil the 
sale. He writes, indeed, like a man that thinks a great 
deal, and that sometimes thmks religiously; but report 
informs me that he has been severe enough in his animad- 
versions on Dr. Watts, who was nevertheless, if I am in 
any degree a judge of verse, a man of true poetical ability : 
careless, indeed, for the most part, and inattentive too 
often to those niceties which constitute elegance of ex- 
pression, but frequently sublime in his conceptions, and 
masterly in his execution. Pope, I have heard, had 
placed him once in the Dunciady but on being advised 
to read before he judged him, was convinced that he 
deserved other treatment, and thrust somebody's block- 
head into the gap, whose name, consisting of a mono- 
syllable, happened to fit it. Whatever faults, however, 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 69 

I may be chargeable with as a poet, I cannot accuse 
myself of negligence. I never suffer a line to pass till 
I have made it as good as I can ; and though my doctrines 
may offend this king of critics, he will not, I flatter myself, 
be disgusted by slovenly inaccuracy, either in the numbers, 
•rhymes, or language. Let the rest take its chance. It 
is possible he may be pleased ; and if he should, I shall 
have engaged on my side one of the best trumpeters in 
the kingdom. Let him only speak as favourably of me 
as he has spoken of Sir Richard Blackmore (who, though 
he shines in his poem called " Creation," has written more 
absurdities in verse than any writer of our country), and 
my success will be secured. 

I have often promised mjrself a laugh with you about' 
your pipe, but have always forgotten it when I have been 
writing, and at present I am not much in a laughing 
humour. You will observe, however, for your comfort 
and the honour of that same pipe, that it hardly falls 
within the line of my censure. You never fumigate the 
ladies, or force them out of company ; nor do you use it 
as an incentive to hard drinking. Your friends, indeed, 
have reason to complain that it frequently deprives them 
of the pleasure of your own conversation, while it leads 
you either into your study or your garden; but in all 
other respects it is as innocent a pipe as can be. Smoke 
away, therefore, and remember that if one poet has con- 
demned the practice, a better than he (the witty and 
elegant Hawkins Browne) has been warm in the praise 
of it. 

" Retirement " grows, but more slowly than any of its 
predecessors. Time was when I could with ease produce 
fifty, sixty, or seventy lines in a morning; now I 
generally fall short of thirty, and am sometimes forced 
to be content with a dozen. It ^consists at present, I 
suppose, of between six and seven hundred ; so that there 



70 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

are hopes of an end, and I daresay Johnson will give me 
time enough to finish it. 

I add nothing to this, but still I am 

Your most a£fectionate and humble William. 



TO -THE SAME. 

November Ty 1781. 

My dear Friend — So far as Johnson is to be depended 
on, and I begin to hope that he is now in earnest, I think 
myself warranted to furnish you with an answer to the 
question which you say so often meets you. Mr. Unwin 
made the same inquiry at his shop on his way to Stock 
from Brighthelmstone, when he assured him that the book 
would be printed off in a month, and ready for publication 
after the holidays. For some time past the business has 
proceeded glibly, and if he perseveres at the same rate, it 
is probable his answer will prove a true one. In my last 
despatches I sent him a new edition of the title-page, 
having discarded the Latin paradox which stood at the 
head of the former, and added a French motto to that 
from Virgil. It is taken from a volume of the excellent 
Caraccioli, c^lXt^ Jouissance de soi-tntme. 

Mr. Bull is an honest man. We have seen him twice 
since he received your orders to march hither, apd faith- 
fully told us it was in consequence of those orders that he 
came. He dined with us yesterday; we were all in 
pretty good spirits, and the day passed very agreeably. 
It is not long since he called on Mr. Scott. Mr. Raban 
came in. Mr. Bull began, addressing himself to the 
former : " My friend, you are in trouble, you are 
unhappy; I read it in your countenance." Mr. Scott 
replied he had been so, but he was better. "Come, 
then," says Mr. Bull, " I will expound to you the cause 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 7 1 

of all your anxiety. You are too common ; you make 
yourself cheap. Visit your people less, and converse 
more with your own heart. How often do you speak to 
them in the week?" "Thrice." "Ay, there it is I 
Your sermons are an old ballad ; your prayers are an old 
ballad ; and you are an old ballad too." ** I would wish 
to tread in the steps of Mr. Newton." " You do well to 
follow his steps in all other instances, but in this instance 
you are wrong, and so was he. Mr. Newton trod a path 
which no man but himself could have used so long as he did, 
and he wore it out long before he went from Olney. Too 
much familiarity and condescension cost him the estima- 
tion of his people. He thought he should ensure their 
love, to which he had the best possible title, and by those 
very means he lost it. Be wise, my friend ; take warning ; 
make yourself scarce if you wish that persons of little 
understanding should know how to prize you." 

When he related to us this harangue, "SO nicely 
adjusted to the case of the third person present, it did us 
both good, and as Jacques says, 

" It made my lungs to crow like chanticleer." 

Mrs. Unwin wishes me to inform you that the character 

of Thomas is no longer a doubtful one in Olney. 

He is much addicted to public -houses, and everybody 
knows it. Geary Ball led him home drunk from one of 
them not long since, where he had been playing at quoits, 
and regaling himself with drink till he was unable to stand 
unsupported. She thought it the part of a friend to 
communicate to you this piece of intelligence, that you 
may not lend him money and lose it. He used frequently 
to borrow of us, but we intend henceforth to discontinue 
our aids of that sort. 

I have only seen Mr. Jones since I received your last, 
and have had no opportunity to mention to him your 



72 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

inquiry. He was alive yesterday, however, and not long 
spoke of an intended journey to London. 

We wish your letter to your parishioners may have the 
best effects, and shall be glad to read it. Many thanks 
for three couple of mackerel, perfectly fresh. Our love of 
you both, though often sent to London, is still with us. 
If it is not an inexhaustible well (there is but one love 
that can, with propriety, be called so), it is, however, a 
very deep one, and not likely to fail while we are living. — 
Yours, my dear Sir, W. C. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

November yi, 1781. 

My dear Friend — Though I have a deal of wit, and 
Mrs. Unwin has much more, it would require more than 
our joint stock amounts to, to answer all the demands of 
these gloomy days and long evenings. Books are the 
only remedy I can think of, but books are a commodity 
we deal but little in at Olney. If, therefore, it may 
consist with your other multifarious concerns, I shall be 
obliged to you if you will be so good as to subscribe for 
me to some well-furnished circulating library, and leave 
my address upon the counter written in a legible hand, 
and order them to send me down a catalogue. Their 
address you will be so good as to transmit to me, and 
then you shall have no further trouble. 

This being merely a letter of business, I add no more 
but that I am yours, Wm. Cowper. 

TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

January 5, 1782. 

My DEAR Friend — Did I allow myself to plead the 
common excuse of idle correspondents, and esteem it a 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. y^ 

sufficient reason for not writing that I have nothing to 
write about, I certainly should not write now. But I 
have so often found, on similar occasions, when a great 
penury of matter has seemed to threaten me with an utter 
impossibility of hatching a letter, that nothing is neces- 
sary but to put pen to paper, and go on, in order to 
conquer all difficulties; that, availing myself of past 
experience, I now begin with a most assured persuasion 
that sooner or later, one idea naturally suggesting another, 
I shall come to a most prosperous conclusion. 

In the last " Review," — I mean in the last but one, — ^I saw 
Johnson's critique upon Prior and Pope. I am bound to 
acquiesce in his opinion of the latter, because it has 
always been my own. I could never agree with those 
who preferred him to Dryden ; nor with others (I have 
known such, and persons of taste and discernment too) 
who could not allow him to be a poet at all. He was 
certainly a mechanical maker of verses, and in every line 
he ever wrote we see indubitable marks of most inde- 
fatigable industry and labour. Writers who find it 
necessary to make such strenuous and painful exertions 
are generally as phlegmatic as they are correct ; but Pope 
was, in this respect, exempted firom the common lot of 
authors of that class. With the unwearied application of 
a plodding Flemish painter, who draws a shrimp with the 
most minute exactness, he had all the genius of one of 
the first masters. Never, I believe, were such talents and 
such drudgery united. But I admire Dryden most, who 
has succeeded by mere dint of genius, and in spite of 
a laziness and carelessness almost peculiar to himself. 
His faults are numberless, and so are his beauties. His 
faults are those of a great man, and his beauties are such 
(at least sometimes) as Pope, with all his touching and 
retouching, could never equal. So far, therefore, I have 
no quarrel with Johnson. But I cannot subscribe to what 



74 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

he sa)rs of Prior. In the first place, though my memory 
may fail me, I do not recollect that he takes any notice of 
his Solomon — in my mind the best poem, whether we 
consider the subject of it, or the execution, that he ever 
wrote. In the next place, he condemns him for intro- 
ducing Venus and Cupid into his love verses, and con- 
cludes it impossible his passion could be sincere, because 
when he would express it he has recourse to fables. 
But when Prior wrote those deities were not so obsolete as 
they are at present. His contemporary writers, and some 
that succeeded him, did not think them beneath their 
notice. TibuUus, in reality, disbelieved their existence 
as much as we do ; yet TibuUus is allowed to be the prince 
of all poetical inamoratos, though he mentions them in 
almost every page. There is a fashion in these things, 
which the Doctor seems to have foi^otten. But what 
shall we say of his fusty-rusty remarks upon Henry and 
Emma ? I agree with him, that, morally considered, both 
the knight and his lady are bad characters, and that each 
exhibits an example which ought not to be followed. 
The man dissembles in a way that would have justified 
the woman had she renounced him; and the woman 
resolves to follow him, at the expense of delicacy, pro- 
priety, and even modesty itself. But when the critic calls 
it a dull dialogue, who but a critic will believe him? 
There are few readers of poetry of either sex in this 
country who cannot remember how that enchanting piece 
has bewitched them — ^who do not know, that instead of 
finding it tedious, they have been so delighted with the 
romantic turn of it, as to have overlooked all its defects, 
and to have given it a consecrated place in their memories, 
without ever feeling it a burden. I wonder almost, that 
as the Bacchanals served Orpheus, the boys and girls do 
not tear this husky, dry commentator limb from limb, in 
resentment of such an injury done to their darling poet. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 75 

I admire Johnson as a man of great erudition and sense ; 
but when he sets himself up for a judge of writers upon 
the subject of love, a passion which I suppose he never 
felt in his life, he might as well think himself qualified to 
pronounce upon a treatise on horsemanship, or the art of 
fortification. 

The next packet I receive will bring me, I imagine, the 
last proof-sheet of my volume, which will consist of about 
three hundred and fifty pages honestly printed. — My 
public entree, therefore, is not far distant. — Yours, 

W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Ai>ril I, 1782. 

My dear Friend — I could not have found a better 
trumpeter. Your zeal to serve the interest of my volume, 
together with your extensive acquaintance, qualify you 
perfectly for that niost useful office. Methinks I see you 
with the long tube at your mouth, proclaiming to your 
numerous connexions my poetical merits, and at proper 
intervals levelling it at Olney, and pouring into my ear 
the welcome sound of their approbation. I need not en- 
courage you to proceed — ^your breath will never fail in such a 
cause ; and thus encouraged, I myself perhaps may proceed 
also, and when the versifying fit returns, produce another 
volume. Alas I we shall never receive such commenda- 
tions from him on the woolsack, as your good friend has 
lavished upon us. "Whence I learn, that however import- 
ant I may be in my own eyes, I am very insignificant in 
his. To make me amends, however, for this mortification, 
Mr. Newton tells me that my book is likely to run, spread, 
and prosper ; that the grave cannot help smiling, and the 
gay are struck with the truth of it ; and that it is likely 
to find its way into his Majesty's hands, being put into a 



76 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

proper course for that purpose. Now if the King should 
fall in love with my muse, and with you for her sake, such 
an event would make us ample amends for the Chan- 
cellor*s indifference, and you might be the first divine that 
ever reached a mitre from the shoulders of a poet. But, 
I believe, we must be content, — I with my gains, if I gain 
anj^ing, and you with the pleasure of knowing that I am 
a gainer. 

We laughed heartily at your answer to little John's 
question; and yet I think you might have given him a 
direct answer — "There are various sorts of cleverness, 
my dear — I do not know that mine lies in the poetical 
way, but I can do ten times more towards the entertain- 
ment of company in the way of conversation than our 
friend at Olney. He can rhyme, and I can rattle. If he 
had my talent, or I had his, we should be too charming, 
and the world would almost adore us." — ^Yours, 

W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

August 3, 1782. 

My dear Friend — Entertaining some hope that Mr. 
Newton's next letter would furnish me with the means of 
satisfying your inquiry on the subject of Dr. Johnson's 
opinion, I have till now delayed my answer to your last ; 
but the information is not yet come, Mr. Newton having 
intermitted a week more than usual since his last writing. 
When I receive it, favourable or not, it shall be communi- 
cated to you J but I am not over sanguine in my expecta- 
tions from that quarter. Very learned and very critical 
heads are hard to please. He may, perhaps, treat me 
with lenity for the sake of the subject and design, but the 
composition, I think, will hardly escape his censure. 
Though all doctors may not be of the same mind, there 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 'J'J 

is one doctor at least, whom I have lately discovered, my 
professed admirer. He, too, like Johnson, was with 
difficulty persuaded to read, having an aversion to all 
poetry, e*cept the ** Night Thoughts," which on a certain 
occasion, when being confined on board a ship, he had no 
other employment, he got by heart. He was, however, 
prevailed upon, and read me several times over ; so that 
if my volume had sailed with him, instead of Dr. Young*s, 
I perhaps might have occupied that shelf in his memory 
which he then allotted to the Doctor. 

It is a sort of paradox, but it is true, — ^we are never 
more in danger than when we think ourselves most secure, 
nor in reality more secure than when we seem to be most 
in danger. Both sides of this apparent contradiction were 
lately verified in my experience : Passing from the green- 
house to the barn, I saw three kittens (for we have so 
many in our retinue) looking with fixed attention on some- 
thing which lay on the threshold of a door nailed up. I 
took but little notice of them at first, but a loud hiss 
engaged me to attend more closely, when behold — a 
viper I the largest that I remember to have seen, rearing 
itself, darting its forked tongue, and ejaculating the afore- 
said hiss at the nose of a kitten, almost in contact with 
his lips. I ran into the hall for a hoe with a long handle, 
with which I intended to assail him, and returning in a 
few seconds missed him : he was gone, and I feared had 
escaped me. Still, however, the kittten sat watching 
immovably upon the same spot. I concluded therefore 
that, sliding between the door and the threshold, he had 
found his way out of the garden into the yard — I went 
round immediately, and there found him in close conversa- 
tion with the old cat, whose curiosity, being excited by 
so novel an appearance, inclined her to pat his head 
repeatedly with her fore foot, with her claws, however, 
sheathed, and not in anger, but in the way of philosophic 



78 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

inquiry and examination. To prevent her falling a victim 
to so laudable an exercise of her talents, I interposed in a 
moment with the hoe, and performed upon him an act of 
decapitation, which though not immediately mortal proved 
so in the end. Had he slid into the passages, where it 
is dark, or had he, when in the yard, met with no 
interruption from the cat, and secreted himself in any of 
the outhouses, it is hardly possible but that some of the 
family must have been bitten j he might have been trodden 
upon without being perceived, and have slipped away 
before the sufferer could have distinguished what foe had 
wounded him. Three years ago we discovered one in the 
same place, which the barber slew with a trowel. 

Our proposed removal to Mr. Small's was, as you 
suppose, a jest, or rather a joco-serious matter. We 
never looked upon it as entirely feasible, yet we saw in it 
something so like practicability, that we did not esteem 
it altogether unworthy of our attention. It was one of 
those projects which people of lively imaginations play 
with, and admire for a few days, and then break in pieces. 
Lady Austen returned on Thursday from London, where 
she spent the last fortnight, and whither she was called 
by an unexpected opportunity to dispose of the remainder 
of her lease. She has therefore no longer any connexion 
with the great city, and no house but at Olney. Her 
abode is to be at the vicarage, where she has hired as 
much room as she wants, which she will embellish with 
her own furniture, and which she will occupy as soon as 
the minister's wife has produced another child, which is 
expected to make its entry in October. 

Mr. Bull, a dissenting minister of Newport, a learned, 
ingenious, good-natured, pious friend of ours, who some- 
times visits us, and whom we visited last week, has put 
into my hands three volumes of French poetry, composed 
by Madame Guyon — b. quietist, say you, and a fanatic ; I 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 79 

will have nothing to do with her. — 'Tis very well, you are 
welcome to have nothing to do with her ; but in the 
meantime her verse is the only French verse I ever read 
that I found agreeable ; there is a neatness in it equal to 
that which we applaud with so much reason in the com- 
positions of Prior. I have translated several of them, and 
shall proceed in my translations till I have filled a Lili- 
putian paper book I happen to have by me, which, when 
filled, I shall present to Mr. Bull. He is her passionate 
admirer ; rode twenty miles to see her picture in the house 
of a stranger, which stranger politely insisted on his 
acceptance of it, and it now hangs over his chimney. It 
is a striking portrait, too characteristic not to be a strong 
resemblance, and, were it encompassed with a glory, 
instead of being dressed in a nun's hood, might pass for 
the face of an angel. — Yours, W. C. 



TO MRS. NEWTON. 

November 23, 1782. 
My dear Madam — ^The soles with which you favoured 
us were remarkably fine. Accept our thanks for them ; 
thanks likevdse for the trouble you take in vending my 
poems, and still more for the interest you take in their 
success. My authorship is undoubtedly pleased when I 
hear that they are approved either by the great or the 
small ; but to be approved by the great, as Horace 
observed many years ago, is fame indeed. Having met 
with encouragement, I consequently wish to write again j 
but wishes are a very small part of the qualifications 
necessary for such a purpose. Many a man who has 
succeeded tolerably well in his first attempt has spoiled 
all by the second. But it just occurs to me that I told 
you so once before, and if my memory had served me 



So LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

with the intelligence a minute sooner, I would not have 
repeated the observation now. 

The winter sets in with great severity. The rigour of 
the season, and the advanced price of grain, are very 
threatening to the poor. It is well with those that can 
feed upon a promise, and wrap themselves up warm in 
the robe of salvation. A good fireside, and a well-spread 
table, are but very indifferent substitutes for these better 
accommodations ; so very indifferent, that I would gladly 
exchange them both for the rags and the unsatisfied hunger 
of the poorest creature that looks forward with hope to a 
better world, and weeps tears of joy in the midst of 
penury and distress. What a world is this 1 How 
mysteriously governed, and, in appearance, left to itself ! 
One man, having squandered thousands at a gaming-table, 
finds it convenient to travel ; gives his estate to somebody 
to manage for him ; amuses himself a few years in France 
and Italy ; returns, perhaps, wiser than he went, having 
acquired knowledge which, but for his follies, he would 
never have acquired ; again makes a splendid figure at 
home, shines in the senate, governs his country as its 
minister, is admired for his abilities, and, if successfiil, 
adored, at least by a party. When he dies, he is praised 
as a demi-god, and his monument records everything but 
his vices. The exact contrast of such a picture is to be 
found in many cottages at Olney. I have no need to 
describe them ; you know the characters I mean. They 
love God, they trust him, they pray to him in secret, and 
though he means to reward them openly, the day of 
recompense is delayed. In the meantime they suffer 
everything that infirmity and poverty can inflict upon 
them. Who would suspect, that has not a spiritual eye 
to discern it, that the fine gentleman was one whom his 
Maker had in abhorrence, and the wretch last mentioned 
dear to him as the apple of his eye ? It is no wonder 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 8 1 

that the world who are not in the secret, find themselves 
obliged, some of them, to doubt a Providence, and others 
absolutely to deny it, when almost all the real virtue there 
is in it is to be found living and djdng in a state of neglected 
obscurity, and all the vices of others cannot exclude them 
from the privilege of worship and honour I But behind 
the curtain the matter is explained, very little, however, 
to the satisfaction of the great. 

If you ask me why I have written thus, and to you 
especially, to whom there was no need to write thus, I can 
only reply, that having a letter to write, and no news to 
communicate, I picked up the first subject I found, and 
pursued it as far as was convenient for my purpose. 

Mr. Newton and I are of one mind on the subject of 
patriotism. Our dispute was no sooner begun than it 
ended. It would be well, perhaps, if, when two disputants 
begin to engage, their firiends would hurry each into a 
separate chaise, and order them to opposite points of the 
compass. Let one travel twenty miles east ; the other as 
many west ; then let them write their opinions by the post. 
Much altercation and chafing of the spirit would be pre- 
vented 5 they would sooner come to a right understand- 
ing, and, running away from each other, would carry on 
the combat more judiciously, in exact proportion to the 
distance. 

My love to that gentleman, if you please ; and tell him 
that, like him, though I love my country, I hate its follies 
and its sins, and had rather see it scourged in mercy than 
judicially hardened by prosperity. 

Mrs. Unwin is not very well, but better than she has 
been. She adds her love to both. — Yours, my dear 
madam, as ever, Wm. Cowper. 



G 



82 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

December T, 1782. 

My dear Friend — At 7 o'clock this evening, being 
the 7th of December, I imagine I see you in your box at 
the coffee-house. No doubt the waiter, as ingenious and 
adroit as his predecessors were before him, raises the 
tea-pot to the ceiling with his right hand, while in his 
left the tea-cup, descending almost to the floor, receives a 
limpid stream; limpid in its descent, but no sooner 
has it reached its destination, than, frothing and foaming 
to the view, it becomes a roaring syllabub. This is 
the nineteenth winter since I saw you in this situa- 
tion ; and if nineteen more pass over me before I die, 
I shall still remember a circumstance we have often 
laughed at. 

How different is the complexion of your evenings and 
mine ! — ^yours, spent amid the ceaseless hum that proceeds 
from the inside of fifty noisy and busy periwigs ; mine, 
by a domestic fireside, in a retreat as silent as retirement 
can make it ; where no noise is made but what we make 
for our own amusement. For instance, here are two 
rustics and your humble servant in company. One of the 
ladies has been playing on the harpsichord, while I, with 
the other, have been playing at battledore and shuttlecock. 
A little dog, in the meantime, howling under the chair of 
the former, performed, in the vocal way, to admiration. 
This entertainment over, I began my letter, and having 
nothing more important to communicate, have given you 
an account of it. I know you love dearly to be idle, when 
you can find an opportunity to be so ; but as such oppor- 
tunities are rare with you, I thought it possible that a 
short description of the idleness I enjoy might give you 
pleasure. I'he happiness we cannot call our own, we yet 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY 83 

seem to possess while we sympathise with our friends who 
can. 

The papers tell me that peace is at hand, and that it 
is at a great distance; that the siege of Gibraltar is 
abandoned, and that it is still to be continued. It is 
happy for me that, though I love my country, I have but 
little curiosity. There was a time when these contradic- 
tions would have distressed me, but I have learnt by ex- 
perience that it is best for little people like myself to be 
patient, and to wait till time affords the intelligence which 
no speculations of theirs can ever furnish. 

I thank you for a fine cod with oysters, and hope that, 
ere long, I shall have to thank you for procuring me 
Elliot*s medicines. Every time I feel the least uneasiness 
in either eye I tremble lest, my -^culapius beii^ de- 
parted, my infallible remedy should be lost for ever. 
Adieu. My respects to Mrs. Hill. — Yours faithfully, 

Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

January 26, 1783. 

My dear Friend — It is reported among persons of 
the* best intelligence at Olney — the barber, the school- 
master, and the drummer of a corps quartered at this 
place — that the belligerent powers are at last reconciled, 
the articles of the treaty adjusted, and that peace is at the 
door. - 1 saw this morning, at nine o'clock, a group of 
about twelve figures very closely engaged in a conference, 
as I suppose, upon the same subject. The scene of con- 
sultation was a blacksmith's shed, very comfortably screened 
from the wind, and directly opposed to the morning sun. 
Some held their hands behind them, some had them folded 
across their bosom, and others had thrust them into their 



84 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

breeches pockets. Every man's posture bespoke a pacific 
turn of mind ; but the distance being too great for their 
words to reach me, nothing transpired. I am willing, 
however, to hope that the secret will not be a secret long, 
and that you and I, equally interested in the event, though 
not, perhaps, equally well informed, shall soon have an 
opportunity to rejoice in the completion of it. The powers 
of Europe have clashed with each other to a fine purpose ; 
that the Americans, at length declared independent, may 
keep themselves so if they can ; and that what the parties, 
who have thought proper to dispute upon that point, have 
wrested firom each other in the course of the conflict may 
be, in the issue of it, restored to the proper owner. Nations 
may be guilty of a conduct that would render an indi- 
vidual infamous for ever, and yet carry their heads high, 
talk of their glory, and despise their neighbours. Your 
opinions and mine, I mean our political ones, are not 
exactly of a piece, yet I cannot think otherwise upon this 
subject than I have always done. England, more perhaps 
through the fault of her generals than her councils, has in 
some instances acted with a spirit of cruel animosity she 
was never chargeable with till now. But this is the worst 
that can be said. On the other hand, the Americans, 
who, if they had contented themselves with a struggle for 
lawfid liberty, would have deserved applause, seem to me 
to have incurred the guilt of parricide by renouncing their 
parent, by making her ruin their favourite object, and by 
associating themselves with her worst enemy for the accom- 
plishment of their purpose. France and, of course,* Spain 
have acted a treacherous, a thievish part. They have 
stolen America firom England, and whether they are able 
to possess themselves of that jewel or not hereafter, it was 
doubtless what they intended. Holland appears to me 
in a meaner light than any of them. They quarrelled with 
a friend for an enemy's sake. The French led them by 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 85 

the nose, and the English have thrashed them for suffering 
it. My view of the contest being, and having been always 
such, I have consequently brighter hopes for England than 
her situation some time since seemed to justify. She is 
the only injured party. America may perhaps call her 
the aggressor, but if she were so, America has not only 
repelled the injury, but done a greater. As to the rest, 
if perfidy, treachery, avarice, and ambition can prove their 
cause to have been a rotten one, those proofs are found 
upon them. I think, therefore, that whatever scourge 
may be prepared for England on some future day, her ruin 
is not yet to be expected. 

Acknowledge, now, that I am worthy of a place under 
the shed I described, and that I should make no small 
figure among the quidnuncs of Olney. 

I wish the society you have formed may prosper. Your 
subjects will be of greater importance, and discussed with 
more sufl&ciency. The earth is a grain of sand, but the 
spiritual interests of man are commensurate with the 
heavens. 

Pray remind Mr. Bull, who has too much genius to 
have a good memory, that he has an account to settle for 
Mrs. Unwin with her grocer, and give our love to him. 
Accept for yourself and Mrs. Newton your just share of 
the same commodity, with our united thanks for a very 
fine barrel of oysters. This, indeed, is rather commending 
the barrel than its contents. I should say, therefore, for 
a barrel of very fine oysters. — ^Yours, my dear friend, as 
ever, W. C. 

TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

May X2, 1783. 

My dear Friend — A letter written from such a place 
as this is a creation ; and creation is a work for which 



86 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

mere mortal man is very indiflferently qualified. Ex nihilo 
nihil fit is a maxim that applies itself in every case where 
Deity is not concerned. With this view of the matter, I 
should chaise myself with extreme folly for pretending to 
work vdthout materials did I not know that although 
nothing could be the result, even that nothing will be 
welcome. If I can tell you no news, I can tell you at 
least that I esteem you highly ; that my friendship with 
you and yours is the only balm of my life, a comfort 
sufficient to reconcile me to an existence destitute of every 
other. This is not the language of to-day, only the 
effect of a transient cloud suddenly brought over me, and 
suddenly to be removed, but punctually expressive of 
my habitual frame of mind, such as it has been these 
ten years. 

In the "Review " of last month I met with an account of 
a sermon preached by Mr. Paley at the consecration of 
his friend, Bishop Law. The critic admires and extols 
the preacher, and devoutly prays the Lord of the Harvest 
to send forth more such labourers into his vineyard. I 
rather differ from him in opinion, not being able to con- 
jecture in what respect the vineyard will be benefited by 
such a measure. He is certainly ingenious, and has 
stretched his ingenuity to the uttermost in order to exhibit 
the Church established, consisting of bishops, priests, and 
deacons, in the most favourable point of view. I lay it 
down for a rule, that when much ingenuity is necessary to 
gain an argument credit, that argument is unsound at 
bottom. So is his, and so are all the petty devices by 
which he seeks to enforce it. He says first, "that the 
appointment of various orders in the Church is attended 
with this good consequence, — that each class of people is 
supplied with a clergy of their own level and description, 
with whom they may live and associate on terms of 
equality. " But in order to effect this good purpose there 



LEITERS FROM OLNEY. 87 

ought to be at least three parsons in every parish, — one 
for the gentry, one for traders and mechanics, and one for 
the lowest of the vulgar. Neither is it easy to find many 
parishes where the laity at large have any society with 
their minister at all. This, therefore, is fanciful, and a 
mere invention. In the next place, he says it gives a 
dignity to the ministry itself, and the clergy share in the 
respect paid to their superiors. Much good may such 
participation do them I They themselves know how little 
it amounts to. The dignity a parson derives firom the 
lawn sleeves and square cap of his diocesan will never 
endanger his humility. 
Pope says truly — 

Worth makes the man, and want of It the fellow ; 
The rest is all but leather or prunello. 

Again — "Rich and splendid situations in the Church 
have been justly regarded as prizes, held out to invite 
persons of good hopes and ingenious attainments." 
Agreed. But the prize held out in the Scripture is of a 
very different kind ; and our ecclesiastical baits are too 
often snapped by the worthless, and persons of no attain- 
ments at all. They are, indeed, incentives to avarice and 
ambition, but not to those acquirements by which only the 
ministerial function can be adorned, — zeal for the salvation 
of men, humility, and self-denial. Mr. Paley and I, there- 
fore, cannot agree. — Yours, my dear friend, 

W. C. 



TO THE REV. WM. BULL. 

/une 3, 1783. 

My dear Friend — My greenhouse, fronted with 
myrtles, and where I hear nothing but the pattering of a 
fine shower, and the sound of distant thunder, wants onl'^ 



88 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

the fumes of your pipe to make it perfectly delightful. 
Tobacco was not known in the Golden Age. So much 
the worse for the Golden Age. This age of iron, or 
lead, would be insupportable without it j and therefore 
we may reasonably suppose that the happiness of those 
better days would have been much improved by the use 
of it. We hope that you and your son are perfectly 
recovered. The season has been most unfavourable to 
animal life ; and I, who am merely animal, have suffered 
much by it. 

Though I should be glad to write^ I write little or 
nothing. The time for such fruit is not yet come ; but I 
expect it, and I wish for it. I want amusement, and, 
deprived of that, have none to supply the place of it. I 
send you, however, according to my promise to send you 
everything, two stanzas composed at the request of Lady 
Austen. She wanted words to a tune she much admired, 
and I gave her these on Peace. — ^Yours, W.C. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UN WIN. 

June 8, 1783. 

My dear William — Our severest winter, commonly 
called the spring, is now over, and I find myself seated 
in my favourite recess, the greenhouse. In such a situa- 
tion, so silent, so shady, where no human foot is heard, 
and where only my myrtles presume to peep in at the 
window, you may suppose I have no interruption to com- 
plain of, and that my thoughts are perfectly at my 
command. But the beauties of the spot are themselves 
an interruption, my attention being called upon by those 
very myrtles, by a double row of grass pinks just beginning 
to blossom, and by a bed of beans already in bloom ; and 
you are to consider it, if you please, as no small proof of 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 89 

my regard, that though you have so many powerful rivals, 
I disengage myself from them all, and devote this hour 
entirely to you. 

You are not acquainted with the Rev. Mr. Bull of 
Newport ; perhaps it is as well for you that you are not. 
You would regret still more than you do that there are 
so many miles interposed between us. He spends part 
of the day with us to-morrow. A Dissenter, but a liberal 
one ; a man of letters and of genius ; master of a fine 
imagination, or rather not master of it — an imagination 
which, when he finds himself in the company he loves, 
and can confide in, runs away with him into such fields 
of speculation as amuse and enliven every other imagina- 
tion that has the happiness to be of the party I At other 
times he has a tender and delicate sort of melancholy in 
his disposition, not less agreeable in its way. No men 
are better qualified for companions in such a world as 
this than men of such a temperament. Every scene of 
life has two sides, a dark and a bright one, and the mind 
that has an equal mixture of melancholy and vivacity is 
best of all qualified for the contemplation of either. He 
can be lively without levity, and pensive without dejection. 
Such a man is Mr. Bull. But — ^he smokes tobacco — 
nothing is perfect — 

Nihil est ab omni 

Parte beatum. 

I find that your firiend Mr. Fytche has lost his cause ; and, 
more mortifying still, has lost it by a single voice. Had 
I been a peer, he should have been secure of mine ; for I 
am persuaded that if conditional presentations were in 
fashion, and if every minister held his benefice, as the 
judges their office, upon the terms of quamdiu bene se 
gesserity it would be better for the cause of religion, and 
more for the honour of the Establishment. There ought 
to be discipline somewhere ; and if the Bishops will not 



90 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

exercise it, I do not see why lay patrons should have their 
hands tied. If I remember the state of your case (and I 
never heard it stated but by you), my reflections upon it 
are pertinent. It is, however, long since we talked about 
it, and I may possibly misconceive it at present ; if so, 
they go for nothing. I understand that he presented 
upon condition that if the parson proved immoral or 
negligent, he should have liberty to call upon him either 
for his resignation, or the penalty. If I am wrong, correct 
me. — Yours, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

August 4, 1783. 

My dear William — I feel myself sensibly obliged 
by the interest you take in the success of my productions. 
Your feelings upon the subject are such as I should have 
myself, had I an opportunity of calling Johnson aside to 
make the inquiry you propose. But I am pretty well 
prepared for the worst, and so long as I have the opinion 
of a few capable judges in my favour, and am thereby 
convinced that I have neither disgraced m5rself nor my 
subject, shall not feel myself disposed to any extreme 
anxiety about the sale. To aim with success at the 
spiritual good of mankind, and to become popular by 
writing on scriptural subjects, were an unreasonable 
ambition even for a poet to entertain in days like these. 
Verse may have many charms, but has none powerful 
enough to conquer the aversion of a dissipated age to such 
instruction. Ask the question therefore boldly, and be 
not mortified even though he should shake his head and 
drop his chin ; for it is no more than we have reason to 
expect. We will lay the fault upon the vice of the times, 
and we will acquit the poet. 

I am glad you were pleased with my Latin ode, and 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 9 1 

indeed with my English dirge, as much as I was myself. 
The tune laid me under a disadvantage, obliging me to 
write in Alexandrines ; which I suppose would suit no 
ear but a French one ; neither did I intend anything 
more than that the subject and the words should be 
sufficiently accommodated to the music. The ballad is a 
species of poetry I believe peculiar to this country, equally 
adapted to the drollest and the most tragical subjects. 
Simplicity and ease are its proper characteristics. Our 
forefathers excelled in it ; but we modems have lost the 
art. It is observed that we have few good English odes. 
But to make amends, we have many excellent ballads, 
not inferior perhaps in true poetical merit to some of the 
very best odes that the Greek or Latin languages have to 
boast of. It is a sort of composition I was ever fond of, 
and if graver matters had not called me another way, 
should have addicted myself to it more than to any other. 
I inherit a taste for it from my father, who succeeded well 
in it himself, and who lived at a time when the best pieces 
in that way were produced. What can be prettier than 
Gay's ballad, or rather Swdft's, Arbuthnot's, Pope^s, and 
Gay's, in the What-do-ye-call-it — "'Twas when the seas 
were roaring ? " I have been well informed that they all 
contributed, and that the most celebrated association of 
clever fellows this country ever saw did not think it 
beneath them to unite their strength and abilities in the 
composition of a song. The success, however, answered 
their wishes. The ballads that Bourne has translated, 
beautiful in themselves, are still more beautiful in his 
version of them, infinitely surpassing in my judgment all 
that Ovid or Tibullus have left behind them. They are 
quite as elegant, and far more touching and pathetic, than 
the tenderest strokes of either. 

So much for ballads and ballad -writers. "A worthy 
subject," you will say, " for a man whose head migjht be 



92 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

filled with better things:" — and it is filled with better 
things, but to so ill a purpose, that I thrust into it all 
manner of topics that may prove more amusing ; as for 
instance, I have two goldfinches, which in the summer 
occupy the greenhouse. A few days since, being employed 
in cleaning out their cages, I placed that which I had in 
hand upon the table, while the other hung against the 
wall J the windows and the doors stood wide open. I 
went to fill the fountain at the pump, and on my return 
was not a little surprised to find a goldfinch sitting on the 
top of the cage I had been cleaning, and singing to and 
kissing the goldfinch within. I approached him, and he 
discovered no fear ; stUl nearer, and he discovered none. 
I advanced my hand towards him, and he took no notice 
of it. I seized him, and supposed I had caught a .new 
bird, but casting my eye upon the other cage perceived 
my mistake. Its inhabitant, during my absence, had 
contrived to find an opening, where the wire had been a 
little bent, and made no other use of the escape it afforded 
him than to salute his friend, and to converse with him 
more intimately than he had done before. I returned him 
to his proper mansion, but in vain. In less than a minute 
he had thrust his little person through the aperture again, 
and again perched upon his neighbour's cage, kissing him, 
as at the firet, and singing, as if transported with the 
fortunate adventure. I could not but respect such friend- 
ship as, for the sake of its gratification, had twice declined 
an opportunity to be free, and, consenting to their union, 
resolved that for the fixture one cage should hold them 
both. I am glad of such incidents. For at a pinch, and 
when I need entertainment, the versification of them 
serves to divert me. W. C. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 93 



TO THE SAME. 

My dear Friend — It is hard upon us striplings who 
have uncles still living (N.B. I myself have an uncle still 
alive), that those venerable gentlemen should stand in our 
way, even when the ladies are in question ; that I, for 
instance, should find in one page of your letter a hope 
that Miss Shuttleworth would be of your party, and be 
told in the next that she is engaged to your uncle. WeU, 
we may perhaps never be uncles, but we may reasonably 
hope that the time is coming when others, as young as we 
are now, shall envy us the privileges of old age, and see 
us ei^oss that share in the attention of the ladies to which 
their youth must aspire in vain. Make our compliments, 
if you please, to your sister Eliza, and tell her that we 
are both mortified at having missed the pleasure of seeing 
her. 

Balloons are so much the mode, that even in this country 
we have attempted a balloon. You may possibly remember 
that at a place called Weston, a little more than a mile 
from Olney, there lives a family whose name is Throck- 
morton. The present possessor of the estate is a young 
man whom I remember a boy. He has a wife, who is 
young, genteel, and handsome. They are Papists, but 
much more amiable than many Protestants. We never 
had any intercourse with the family, though ever since we 
lived here we have enjoyed the range of their pleasure- 
grounds, having been favoured with a key, which admits 
us into all. When this man succeeded to the estate on 
the death of his elder brother, and came to settle at 
Weston, I sent him a complimentary card, requesting the 
continuance of that privilege, having till then enjoyed it 
by favour of his mother, who on that occasion went to 
finish her days at Bath. You may conclude that he 



94 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

granted it, and for about two years nothing more passed 
between us. A fortnight ago I received an invitation in 
the civilest terms, in which he told me that the next day 
he should attempt to fill a balloon, and if it would be any 
pleasure to me to be present, should be happy to see me. 
Your mother and I went. The whole country were there, 
but the balloon could not be filled. The endeavour was, 
I believe, very philosophically made, but such a process 
depends for its success upon such niceties as make it very 
precarious. Our reception, was, however, flattering to 
a great degree, insomuch that more notice seemed to be' 
taken of us than we could possibly have expected, indeed 
rather more than of any of his other guests. They even 
seemed anxious to recommend themselves to our regards. 
We drank chocolate, and were asked to dine, but were 
engaged. A day or two afterwards Mrs. Unwin and I 
walked that way, and were overtaken in a shower. I 
found a tree that I thought would shelter us both, a large 
elm, in a grove that fronts the mansion. Mrs. T. observed 
us, and, running towards us in the rain, insisted on our 
walking in. He was gone out. We sat chatting with 
her till the weather cleared up, and then at her instance 
took a walk with her in the garden. The garden is almost 
their only walk, and is certainly their only retreat in which 
they are not liable to interruption. She offered us a key 
of it in a manner that made it impossible not to accept it, 
and said she would send us one. A few days afterwards, 
in the cool of the evening, we walked that way again. 
We saw them going toward the house, and exchanged 
bows and curtsies at a little distance, but did not join them. 
In a few minutes, when we had passed the house, and had 
almost reached the gate that opens out of the park into 
the adjoining field, I heard the iron gate belonging to the 
courtyard ring, and saw Mr. T. advancing hastily towards 
us J we made equal haste to meet him ; he presented to us 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 95 

the key, which I told him I esteemed a singular favour, 
and after a few such speeches as are made on such occa- 
sions we parted. This happened about a week ago. I 
concluded nothing less than that all this civility and 
attention was designed on their part as a prelude to a 
nearer acquaintance ; but here at present the matter rests. 
I should like exceedingly to be on an easy footing there, 
to give a morning call, and now and then to receive one, 
but nothing more. For though he is one of the most 
agreeable men I ever saw, I could not wish to visit him 
in any other way ; neither our house, furniture, servants, 
nor income, being such as qualify us to make entertain- 
ments ; neither would I on any account be introduced to 
the neighbouring gentry, which must be the consequence 
of our dining there, there not being a man in the country 
except himself with whom I could endure to associate. 
They are squires — merely such — purse-proud, and sports- 
men. Mr. T. is altogether a man of fashion, and respect- 
able on every account. 

I have told you a long story. Farewell. We number 
the days as they pass, and are glad that we shall see you 
and your sister soon. — Yours, etc., W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

November 30, 1783. 

My DEAR Friend — I have neither long visits to pay 
nor to receive, nor ladies to spend hours in telling me 
that which might be told in five minutes, yet often find 
myself obliged to be an economist of time, and to make 
the most of a short opportunity. Let our station be as 
retired as it may, there is no want of playthings and 
avocations, nor much need to seek them, in this world of 
ours. Business, or what presents itself to us under that 



96 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

imposing character, will find us out, even in the stillest 
retreat, and plead its importance, however trivial in reality, 
as a just demand upon our attention. It is wonderful how, 
by means of such real or seeming necessities, my time is 
stolen away. I have just time to observe that time is 
short, and by the time I have made the observation time 
is gone. I have wondered in former days at the patience 
of the antediluvian world ; that they could endure a life 
almost millenary with so little variety as seems to have 
fallen to their share. It is probable that they had much 
fewer employments than .we. Their affairs lay in a narrower 
compass ; their libraries were indifferently furnished ; 
philosophical researches were carried on with much less 
industry and acuteness of penetration j and fiddles, perhaps, 
were not even invented. How then could seven or eight 
hundred years of life be supportable ? I have asked this 
question formerly, and been at a loss to resolve it ; but I 
think I can answer it now. I will suppose myself bom a 
thousand years before Noah was bom or thought of. I 
rise with the sun ; I worship j I prepare my breakfast ; I 
swallow a bucket of goat's milk, and a dozen good size- 
able cakes. I fasten a new string to my bow, and my 
youngest boy, a lad of about thirty years of age, having 
played with my arrows till he has stript off all the feathers, 
I find myself obliged to repair them. The morning is 
thus spent in preparing for the chase, and it is become 
necessary that I should dine. I dig up my roots ; I wash 
them ; I boil them ; I find them not done enough ; I boil 
them again ; my wife is angry ; we dispute ; we settle the 
point ; but in the meantime the fire goes out and must be 
kindled again. All this is very amusing. I hunt ; I bring 
home the prey ; with the skin of it I mend an old coat, 
or I make a new one. By this time the day is far spent ; 
I feel myself fatigued, and retire to rest. Thus what with 
tilling the ground and eating the fruit of it, hunting, and 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 97 

walking, and running, and mending old clothes, and 
sleeping and rising again, I can suppose an inhabitant of 
the primaeval worid so much occupied as to sigh over the 
shortness of life, and to find at the end of many centuries 
that they had all slipped through his fingers, and were 
passed away like a shadow. What wonder then that I, 
who live in a day of so much greater refinement, when 
there is so much more to be wanted, and wished, and to 
be enjoyed, should feel myself now and then pinched in 
point of opportunity, and at some loss for leisure to fill 
four sides of a sheet like this. Thus, however, it is; and 
if the ancient gentlemen to whom I have referred, and 
their complaints of the disproportion of time to the occa- 
sions they had for it, will not serve me as an excuse, I 
must even plead guilty, and confess that I am often in 
haste when I have no good reason for being so. 

This by way of introduction ; now for my letter. Mr. 
Scott is desired by Mr. De Coetlegon to contribute to the 
Theological Reviewy of which, I suppose, that gentleman 
is a manager. He says he has insured your assistance, 
and at the same time desires mine, either in prose or verse. 
He did well to apply to you, because you can afford him 
substantial help ; but as for me, had he known me better, 
he would never have suspected me for a theologian, either 
in rhjnne or otherwise. 

Lord Dartmouth's Mr. Wright spent near two hours 
with me this morning : a respectable old man, whom I 
always see with pleasure, both for his master's sake and 
for his own. I was glad to learn from him that his lord- 
ship has better health than he has enjoyed for some years. 
— Believe me, my dear friend, your affectionate, 

Wm. Cowper. 



H 



98 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

March 21, 1784. 

My dear William — I thank you for the entertain- 
ment you have aflforded me. , I often wish for a library ; 
often regret my folly in selling a good collection ; but I 
have one in Essex. It is rather remote ; indeed, too 
distant for occasional reference ; but it serves the purpose 
of amusement, and a waggon being a very suitable 
vehicle for an author, I find myself commodiously 
supplied. Last night I made an end of reading Johnson's 
Prefaces ; but, the number of poets whom he has vouch- 
safed to chronicle being fifty-six, there must be many 
with whose history I am not yet acquainted. These, or 
some of these, if it suits you to give them a part of your 
chaise, when you come, will be heartily welcome. I am 
very much the biographer's humble admirer. His un- 
common share of good sense, and his forcible expression, 
secure to him that tribute from all his readers. He has a 
penetrating insight into character, and a happy talent of 
correcting the popular opinion upon all occasions where 
it is erroneous ; and this he does with the boldness of a 
man who will think for himself, but, at the same time, 
with a justness of sentiment that convinces us he does not 
differ from others through affectation, but because he has 
a sounder judgment. This remark, however, has his 
narrative for its object, rather than his critical per- 
formance. In the latter I do not think him always just 
when he departs from the general opinion. He finds no 
beauties in Milton's Lycidas. He pours contempt upon 
Prior to such a degree, that, were he really as undeserving 
of notice as he represents him, he ought no longer to be 
numbered among the poets. These, indeed, are the two 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 99 

capital instances in which he has offended me. There 
are others less important, which I have not room to 
enumerate, and in which I am less confident that he is 
wrong. What suggested to him the thought that the 
Alma was written in imitation of Hudibras, I cannot 
conceive. In former years they were both favourites of 
mine, and I often read them j but never saw in them the 
least resemblance to each other ; nor do I now, except 
that they are composed in verse of the same measure. 
After all, it is a melancholy observation, which it is 
impossible not to make after having run through this 
series of poetical lives, that, where there were such shining 
talents, there should be so little virtue. These luminaries 
of our country seem to have been kindled into a brighter 
blaze than others, only that their spots might be more 
noticed I So much can nature do for our intellectual part, 
and so little for our moral. What vanity, what petulance 
in Pope ! How painftiUy sensible of censure, and yet 
how restless in provocation ! To what mean artifices 
could Addison stoop in hopes of injuring the reputation 
of his firiend I Savage, how sordidly vicious, and the 
more condemned for the pains that are taken to palliate 
his vices. Offensive as they appear through a veil, how 
would they disgust without one. What a sycophant to j 
the public taste was Dryden ; sinning against his feelings, \ 
lewd in his writings, though chaste in his conversation. 
I know not but one might search these eight volumes with 
a candle, as the prophet says, to find a man, and not find 
one, unless, perhaps, Arbuthnot were he. 

I shall begin Beattie this evening, and propose to my- 
self much satisfaction in reading him. In him, at least, 
I shall find a man whose faculties have now and then 
a glimpse from Heaven upon them, — a man, not indeed 
in possession of much evangelical light, but faithful to 
what he has, and never neglecting an opportunity to use it. 



lOO LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

How much more respectable such a character than that of 
thousands who would call him blind, and yet have not the 
grace to practise half his virtues I He, too, is a poet, and 
wrote the Minstrel. The specimen which I have seen of it 
pleased me much. If you have the whole, I should be 
glad to read it. I may, perhaps, since you allow me the 
liberty, indulge myself here and there with a marginal 
annotation, but shall not use that allowance wantonly so 
as to deface the volumes. 

Your mother wishes you to buy for her ten yards and a 
half of yard- wide Irish, from two shillings to two shillings 
and sixpence per yard ; and my head will be equally 
obliged to you for a hat, of which I enclose a string that 
gives you the circumference. The depth of the crown 
must be four inches and one-eighth. Let it not be a round 
slouch, which I abhor, but a smart, well-cocked, fashion- 
able affair. A fashionable hat likewise for your mother j 
a black one if they are worn ; otherwise, chip. — Yours, 
my dear William, W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

March 29, 1784. 

My dear Friend — It being his Majesty's pleasure 
that I should yet have another opportunity to write before 
he dissolves the Parliament, I avail myself of it with all 
possible alacrity. I thank you for your last, which was 
not the less welcome for coming, like an extraordinary 
gazette, at a time when it was not expected. 

As, when the sea is uncommonly agitated, the water 
finds its way into creeks and holes of rocks, which in its 
calmer state it never reaches, in like manner, the effect 
of these turbulent times is felt even at Orchardside, where 
in general we live as undisturbed by the political element, 






LETTERS FROM OLNEY. lOI 

as shrimps or cockles that have been accidentally deposited 
in some hollow beyond the water -mark by the usual 
dashing of the waves. We were sitting yesterday after 
dinner — the two ladies and myself — ^very composedly, and 
without the least apprehension of any such intrusion, 
in our snug parlour, one lady knitting, the other 
netting, and the gentleman winding worsted, when, to 
our unspeakable surprise, a mob appeared before the 
window, a smart rap was heard at the door, the boys 
hallooed, and the maid announced Mr. Grenville. Puss^ 
was unfortunately let out of her box, so that the candi- 
date, with aU his good friends at his heels, was refused 
admittance at the grand entry, and referred to the back 
door, as the only possible way of approach. 

Candidates are creatures not very susceptible of affronts, 
and would rather, I suppose, climb in at a window than 
be absolutely excluded. In a minute the yard, the 
kitchen, and the parlour were filled. Mr. Grenville, 
advancing towards me, shook me by the hand with a 
degree of cordiality that was extremely seducing. As 
soon as he and as many more as could find chairs were 
seated, he began to open the intent of his visit. I told 
him I had no vote, for which he readily gave me credit. 
I assured him I had no influence, which he was not 
equally inclined to believe, and the less, no doubt, 
because Mr. Ashbumer, the drapier, addressing himself 
to me at that moment, informed me that I had a great 
deal. Supposing that I could not be possessed of such a 
treasure without knowing it, I ventured to confirm my 
first assertion by saying that if I had any I was utterly 
at a loss to imagine where it could be, or wherein it 
consisted. Thus ended the conference. Mr. Grenville 
squeezed me by the hand again, kissed the ladies, and 
withdrew. He kissed likewise the maid in the kitchen, 

1 His tame hare. 



I02 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and seemed upon the whole a most loving, kissing, kind- 
hearted gentleman. He is very young, genteel, and 
handsome. He has a pair of very good eyes in his head, 
which not being sufficient, as it should seem, for the many 
nice and difficult purposes of a senator, he has a third also, 
which he wore suspended by a riband from his button- 
hole. The boys hallooed, the dogs barked, Puss 
scampered ; the hero, with his long train of obsequious 
followers, withdrew. We made ourselves very merry with 
the adventure, and in a short time settled into our former 
tranquillity, never probably to be thus interrupted more. 
I thought myself, however, happy in being able to affirm 
truly that I had not that influence for which he sued ; and 
for which, had I beea possessed of it, with my present 
views of the dispute between the Crown and the Commons, 
I must have refused him, for he is on the side of the 
former. It is comfortable to be of no consequence in a 
world where one cannot exercise any without disobliging 
somebody. The town, however, seems to be much at his 
service, and, if he be equally successful throughout the 
county, he will undoubtedly gain his election. Mr. 
Ashburner, perhaps, was a little mortified, because it was 
evident that I owed the honour of this visit to his mis- 
representation of my importance. But had he thought 
proper to assure Mr. Grenville that I had three heads, I 
should not, I suppose, have been bound to produce them. 
Mr. Scott, who you say was so much admired in your 
pulpit, would be equally admired in his own, at least by 
all capable judges, were he not so apt to be angry with 
his congregation. This hurts him, and, had he the 
understanding and eloquence of Paul himself, would still 
hurt him. He seldom, hardly ever indeed, preaches a 
gentle, well - tempered sermon, but I hear it highly 
commended ; but warmth of temper, indulged to a degree 
that may be called scolding, defeats the end of preaching. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 03 

It is a misapplication of his powers, which it also cripples, 
and teases away his hearers. But he is a good man, and 
may perhaps outgrow it. 

Many thanks for the worsted, which is excellent. We 
are as well as a spring hardly less severe than the severest 
winter will give us leave to be. With our united love, 
we conclude ourselves yours and Mrs. Newton's affec- 
tionate and faithful W. C. 

M. V. 

TO THE SAME. 

April 26, 1784, 

My dear Friend — ^We are truly sorry that you have 
been indisposed. It is well, however, to have passed 
through such a season, and to have fared no worse. A 
cold and a sore throat are troublesome things, but in 
general an ague is more troublesome ; and in this part of 
the world few have escaped one. I have lately been an 
invalid myself, and have just recovered from a rheumatic 
pain in my back, the most excruciating of the sort I ever 
felt. There was talk of bleeding and blistering, but I 
escaped with only an embrocation and a box of pills. 
Mr. Grindon attended me, who, though he fidgets about 
the world as usual, is, I think, a dying man, having had 
some time since a stroke of apoplexy and lately a paral3rtic 
one. His loss will be felt in this country. Though I do 
not think him absolutely an iEsculapius, I believe him to 
be as skilful as most of his fraternity in the neighbourhood ; 
besides which he has the merit of being extremely cautious, 
a very necessary quality in a practitioner upon the con- 
stitutions of others. 

We are glad that your book runs. It will not, indeed, 
satisfy those whom nothing could satisfy but your accession 
to their party ; but the liberal will say you do well, and 
it is in the opinion of such men only that you can feel 
yourself interested. 



I04 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

I have lately been employed in reading Beattie, and 
Blair's Lectures. The latter I have not yet finished. I 
find the former the most agreeable of the two, indeed the 
most entertaining writer upon dry subjects that I ever met 
with. His imagination is highly poetical, his language 
easy and elegant, and his manner so familiar, that we seem 
to be conversing with an old friend, upon terms of the 
most sociable intercourse, while we read him. Blair 
is, on the contrary, rather stiff; not that his style is 
pedantic, but his air is formal. He is a sensible man, and 
understands his subjects, but too conscious that he is 
addressing the public, and too solicitous about his success, 
to indulge himself for a moment in that play of fancy 
which makes the other so agreeable. In Blair we find a 
scholar, in Beattie both a scholar and an amiable man ; 
indeed so amiable that I have wished for his acquaintance 
ever since I read his book. Having never in my life 
perused a page of Aristotle, I am glad to have had an 
opportunity of learning more than, I suppose, he would 
have taught me, from the writings of two modem critics. 
I felt myself, too, a little disposed to compliment my own 
acumen upon the occasion. For, though the art of writing 
and composing was never much my study, I did not find 
that they had any great news to tell me. They have 
assisted me in putting my own observations into some 
method, but have not suggested many, of which I was not by 
some means or other previously apprised. In fact, critics 
did not originally beget authors ; but authors made critics. 
Common-sense dictated to writers the necessity of method, 
connexion, and thoughts congruous to the nature of their 
subject ; genius prompted them with embellishments ; and 
then came the critics. Observing the good effects of an 
attention to these items, they enacted laws for the observ- 
ance of them in time to come ; and, having drawn their 
rules for good writing from what was actually well written, 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. I05 

boasted themselves the inventors of an art which yet the 
authors of the day had already exemplified. They are, 
however, useful in their way, giving us at one view a map 
of the boundaries which propriety sets to fancy ; and 
serving as judges to whom the public may at once appeal 
when pestered with the vagaries of those who have had 
the hardiness to transgress them. 

The candidates for this county have set an example of 
economy which other candidates would do well to follow, 
having come to an agreement on both sides to defray the 
expenses of their voters, but to open no houses for the 
entertainment of the rabble ; a reform, however, which 
the rabble did not at all approve of, and testified their 
dislike of it by a riot. A stage was built, from which the 
orators had designed to harangue the electors. This 
became the first victim of their fury. Having very little 
curiosity to hear what gentlemen could say, who would 
give them nothing better than words, they broke it in 
pieces, and threw the fragments upon the hustings. The 
sheriff, the members, the lawyers, the voters, were instantly 
put to flight. They rallied, but were again routed by a 
second assault, like the former. They then proceeded to 
break the windows of the inn to which they had fled ; and, 
a fear prevailing that at night they would fire the town, a 
proposal was made by the freeholders to face about and 
endeavour to secure them. At that instant a rioter, 
dressed in a Merry Andrew's jacket, stepped forward, 
and challenged the best man among them. Olney 
sent the hero to the " field, who made him repent of 
his presumption. Mr. Ashburner was he. Seizing him 
by the throat, he shook him, he threw him to the earth, 
he made the hoUowness of his skull resound by the appli- 
cation of his fists, and dragged him into custody without 
the least damage to his person. Animated by this 
example, the other freeholders followed it ; and in five 



I06 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

minutes twenty-eight out of thirty ragamuffins were safely 
lodged in jail. 

Adieu, my dear friend ; writing makes my back ache, 
and my paper is full. — We love you, and are yours, 

W. & M. 



TO THE REV. WM. UNWIN. 

Jttly 3, 1784. 

My dear William — I was sorry that I could only 
take a flying leave of you. When the coach stopped at 
the door, I thought you had been in your chamber ; my 
dishabille would not otherwise have prevented my running 
down for the sake of a more suitable parting. We rejoice 
that you had a safe journey, and though we should have 
rejoiced still more had you had no occasion for a physician, 
we are glad that having had need of one, you had the good 
fortune to find him. Let us hear soon that his advice has 
proved effectual, and that you are delivered from all ill 
symptoms. 

Thanks for the care you have taken to furnish me with 
a dictionary. It is rather strange that at my time of life, 
and after a youth spent in classical pursuits, I should want 
one ; and, stranger still, that, being possessed at present of 
only one Latin author in the world, I should think it 
worth while to purchase one. I say that it is strange, and 
indeed I think it so mjrself. But I have thought that when 
my present labours of the pen are ended, I may go to 
school again, and refresh my spirits by a little intercourse 
with the Mantuan and the Sabine bard, and perhaps by a 
reperusal of some others, whose works we generally lay by 
at that period of life when we are best qualified to read 
them, when, the judgment and. the taste being formed, 
their beauties are least likely to be overlooked. 

This change of wind and weather comforts me, and I 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. I07 

should have enjoyed the first fine morning I have seen this 
month with a peculiar relish, if our new tax-maker had 
not put me out of temper. I am angry with him, not 
only for the matter, but for the manner of his proposal. 
When he lays his impost upon horses, he is even jocular, and 
laughs, though, considering that wheels, and miles, and 
grooms, were taxed before, a graver countenance upon the 
occasion would have been more decent. But he provokes 
me still more by reasoning as he does on the justification 
of the tax upon candles. Some families, he says, will 
suffer little by it. Why ? Because they are §0 poor that 
they cannot afford themselves more than ten pounds in 
the year. Excellent ! they can use but few, therefore 
they will pay but little, and consequently will be but little 
burdened — an argument which for its cruelty and effrontery 
seems worthy of a hero ; but he does not avail himself of 
the whole force of it, nor, with all his wisdom, had sagacity 
enough to see that it contains, when pushed to its utmost 
extent, a free discharge and acquittal of the poor from the 
pajnnent of any tax at all : a commodity, being once made 
too expensive for their pockets, will cost them nothing, 
for they will not buy it. Rejoice, therefore, O ye penni- 
less I the minister will indeed send you to bed in the dark, 
but your remaining halfpenny will be safe ; instead of 
being spent in the useless luxury of candlelight, it will 
buy you a roll for breakfest, which you will eat no doubt 
with gratitude to the man who so kindly lessens the 
number of your disbursements, and, while he seems to 
threaten your money, saves it. I wish he would remember 
that the halfpenny which Government imposes the shop- 
keeper will swell to twopence. I wish he would visit 
the miserable huts of our lace -makers at Olney, and 
see them working in the winter months, by the light 
of a farthing candle, from four in the afternoon till mid- 
night. I wish he had laid his tax upon the ten thousand 



Io8 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

lamps that illuminate the Pantheon, upon the flambeaux 
that wait upon ten thousand chariots and sedans in an 
evening, and upon the wax candles that give light to ten 
thousand card tables. I wish, in short, that he would 
consider the pockets of the poor as sacred, and that to tax 
a people already so necessitous, is but to discourage the 
little industry that is left among us, by driving the laborious 
to despair. 

A neighbour of mine, in Silverend, keeps an ass ; the 
ass lives on the other side of the garden wall, and I am 
writing in , the greenhouse ; it happens that he is this 
morning most musically disposed, either cheered by the 
fine weather, or by some new tune which he has just 
acquired, or by finding his voice more harmonious than 
usual. It would be cruel to mortify so fine a singer ; there- 
fore I do not tell him that he interrupts and hinders me, 
but I venture to tell you so, and to plead his performance 
in excuse of my abrupt conclusion. 

I send you the goldfinches, with which you will do as 
you see good. We have an affectionate remembrance of 
your late visit, and of all ®ur friends at Stock. — Believe 
me ever yours, W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

September i8, 1784. 
My dear Friend — Following your good example, I 
lay before me a sheet of my largest paper. It was this 
moment fair and unblemished, but I have begun to blot 
it, and, having begun, am not likely to cease till I have 
spoiled it. I have sent you many a sheet, that, in my 
judgment of it, has been very unworthy of your accept- 
ance ; but my conscience was in some measure satisfied 
by reflecting, that if it were good for nothing, at the 
same time it cost you nothing, except the trouble of read- 



LETl'ERS FROM OLNEY. I09 

ing it. But the case is altered now. You must pay a 
solid price for frothy matter, and though I do not ab- 
solutely pick your pocket, yet you lose your money, and, 
as the saying is, are never the wiser ; a saying literally 
fulfilled to the reader of my epistles. 

My greenhouse is never so pleasant as when we are just 
upon the point of being turned out o^ it. The gentleness 
of the autumnal suns, and the calmness of this latter 
season, make it a much more agreeable retreat than we 
ever find it in summer; when, the winds being gener- 
ally brisk, we cannot cool it by admitting a sufficient 
quantity of air without being at the same time incommoded 
by it. But now I sit with all the windows and the door 
wide open, and am regaled with the scent of every flower 
in a garden as full of flowers as I have known how to 
make it. We keep no bees, but if I lived in a hive I 
should hardly hear more of their music. All the bees in 
the neighbourhood resort to a bed of mignonette opposite 
to the window, and pay me for the honey they get out of 
it by a hum, which, though rather monotonous, is as 
agreeable to my ear as the whistling of my linnets. All 
the sounds that Nature utters are delightful, at least in 
Jhis country. I should not, perhaps, find the roaring of 
lions in Africa, or of bears in Russia, very pleasing ; but 
I know no beast in England whose voice I do not account 
musical, save and except always the braying of an ass. 
The notes of all our birds and fowls please me, without 
one exception. I should not, indeed, think of keeping 
a goose in a cage, that I might hang him up in the parlour 
for the sake of his melody; but a goose upon a common, 
or in a farmyard, is no bad performer. And as to insects, 
if the black beetle, and beetles, indeed, of all hues, will 
keep out of my way, I have no objection to any of the 
rest ; on the contrary, in whatever key they sing, from 
the gnat's fine treble to the bass of the humble bee, I 



/ 

/ 



no LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

admire them all. Seriously, however, it strikes me as a 
very observable instance of providential kindness to man 
that such an exact accord has been contrived between his 
ear and the sounds with which, at least in a rural situation, 
it is almost every moment visited. All the world is 
sensible of the uncomfortable effect that certain sounds 
have upon the nerves, and consequently upon the spirits ; 
and if a siniiil world had been filled with such as would 
have curdled the blood, and have made the sense of hearing 
a perpetual inconvenience, I do not know that we should 
have had a right to complain. But now the fields, the 
woods, the gardens, have each their concert, and the ear of 
man is for ever regaled by creatures who seem only to please 
themselves. Even the ears that are deaf to the Gospel 
are continually entertained, though without knowing it, 
by sounds for which they are solely indebted to its Author. 
There is somewhere in infinite space a world that does 
not roll within the precincts of mercy, and as it is reason- 
able, and even scriptural, to suppose that there is music 
in heaven, in those dismal r^ons perhaps the reverse of 
it is found ; tones so dismal as to make woe itself more 
insupportable, and to acuminate even despair. But my 
paper admonishes me in good time to draw the reins, and 
to check the descent of my fancy into deeps with which 
she is but too familiar. Our best love attends you both, 
with yours — Sum ut semper, tut studiosissimus, 

W. C. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

October 90y 1784. 

My dear William — ^Your letter has relieved me from 
some anxiety, and given me a good deal of positive pleasure. 
I have faith in your judgment, and an implicit confidence 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. Ill 

in the sincerity of your approbation. The writing of so 
long a poem is a serious business ; and the author must 
know little of his own heart who does not in some degree 
suspect himself of partiality to his own production ; and 
who is he that would not be mortified by the discovery 
that he had written five thousand lines in vain? The 
poem, however, which you have in hand will not of itself 
make a volume so large as the last, or as a bookseller 
would wish. I say this, because when I had sent Johnson 
five thousand verses, he applied for a thousand more. 
Two years since I began a piece which grew to the length 
of two hundred, and there stopped. I have lately resumed 
it, and, I believe, shall finish it. But the subject is firuit- 
ful, and will not be comprised in a smaller compass than 
seven or eight hundred verses. It turns on the question 
whether an education at school or at home be preferable, 
and I shall give the preference to the latter. I mean that 
it shall pursue the track of the former, — that is to say, it 
shall visit Stock in its way to publication. My design 
also is to inscribe it to you. But you must see it first ; 
and if, after having seen it, you should have any objection, 
though it should be no bigger than the tittle of an iy I will 
deny m)rself that pleasure, and find no fault with your 
refiisal. I have not been without thoughts of adding "John 
Gilpin " at the tail of all. He has made a good deal of 
noise in the world, and perhaps it may not be amiss to 
show, that, though I write generally with a serious inten- 
tion, I know how to be occasionally merry. The Critical 
Reviewers charged me with an attempt at humour. John 
having been more celebrated upon the score of humour 
than most pieces that have appeared in modem days, may 
serve to exonerate me from the imputation ; but in this 
article I am entirely under your judgment, and mean to 
be set down by it. All these together will make an octavo 
like the last. I should have told you that the piece which 



/ 



112 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

now employs me is in {rhyme. I do not intend to write 
any more blank. It is more difficult than rhyme, and not 
so amusing in the composition. If, when you make the 
offer of my book to Johnson, he should stroke his chin, 
and look up to the ceiling and cry." Humph ! " — anticipate 
him, I beseech you, at once, by saying — " that you know 
I should be sorry that he should undertake for me to his 
own disadvantage, or that my volume should be in any 
degree pressed upon him. I make him the offer merely 
because I think he would have reason to complain of me 
if I did not." But that punctilio once satisfied, it is a 
matter of indifference to me what publisher sends me forth. 
If Longman should have difficulties, which is the more 
probable, as I understand from you that he does not in 
these cases see with his own eyes, but will consult a brother 
poet, take no pains to conquer them. The idea of being 
hawked about, and especially of your being the hawker, is 
insupportable. Nichols, I have heard, is the most learned 
printer of the present day. He may be a man of taste as 
well as of learning ; and I suppose that you would not want 
a gentleman usher to introduce you. He prints the Gentle- 
mafias Magazine^ and may serve us if the others should 
decline ; if not, give yourself no further trouble about the 
matter. I may possibly envy authors who can afford to 
publish at their own expense, and in that case should write 
no more. But the mortification would not break my heart. 

I can easily see that you may have very reasonable 
objections to my dedicatory proposal. You are a clergy- 
man, and I have banged your order. You are a child of 
alma mater^ and I have banged her too. Lay yourself, 
therefore, under no constraints that I do not lay you under, 
but consider yourself as perfectly free. 

With our best love to you all, I bid you heartily fare- 
well. I am tired of this endless scribblement. Adieu ! 
—Yours, W. C. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. II3 



TO THE SAME. 

November i, 1784. 

My dear Friend — Were I to delay my answer, I 
must yet write without a frank at last, and iriay as well 
therefore write without one now, especially feeling, as I 
do, a desire to thank you for your friendly offices so well 
performed. I am glad for your sake, as well as for my 
own, that you succeeded in the first instance, and that the 
.first trouble proved the last. I am willing, too, to consider 
Johnson's readiness to accept a second volume of mine as 
an argument that at least he was no loser by the former. 
I collect from it some reasonable hope that the volume in 
question may not wrong him neither. My imagination 
tells me (for I know you interest yourself in the success 
of my productions) that your heart fluttered when you 
approached his door, and that it felt itself discharged 
of a burden when you came out again. You did well to 
mention it at the Thornton's ; they will now know that you 
do not pretend to a share in my confidence, whatever be the 
value of it, greater than you actually possess. I wrote to 
Mr. Newton by the last post, to tell him that I was gone 
to the press again. He will be surprised, and perhaps 
not pleased. But I think he cannot complain, for he 
keeps his own authorly secrets without participating them 
with me. I do not think myself in the least injured by 
his reserve ; neither should I, if he were to publish a 
whole library without favouring me with any previous 
notice of his intentions. In these cases it is no violation 
of the laws of friendship not to communicate, though there 
must be a fidendship where the .communication is made. 
But many reasons may concur in disposing a writer to keep 
his work secret, and none of them injurious to his friends. 
The influence of one I have felt myself, for which none of 

I 



114 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

them would blame me, — I mean the desire of surprising 
agreeably. And if I have denied myself this pleasure in 
your instance, it was only to give myself a greater, by eradi- 
cating from your mind any little weeds of suspicion that 
might still remain in it, that any man living is nearer to 
me than yourself. Had not this consideration forced up 
the lid of my strong box like a lever, it would have kept 
its contents with an inviolable closeness to the last ; and 
the first news that either you or any of my friends would 
have had of the Tasky they would have received from 
the public papers. But you know now, that neither as 
poet, nor as man, do I give to any man a precedence in 
my estimation at your expense. 

I am proceeding with my new work (which at present 
I feel myself much inclined to call by the name of "Tiro- 
cinium ") as fast as the muse permits. It has reached the 
length of seven hundred lines, and will probably receive 
an addition of two or three hundred more. When you 
see Mr. Smith, perhaps you will not find it difficult to 
procure from him half a dozen franks, addressed to your- 
self, and dated the fifteenth of December, in which case 
they will all go to the post filled with my lucubrations on 
the evening of that day. I do not name an earlier, because 
I hate to be hurried ; and Johnson cannot want it sooner 
than, thus managed, it will reach him. 

I am not sorry that ** John Gilpin," though hitherto he 
has been nobody's child, is likely to be owned at last. 
Here and there I can give him a touch that I think will 
mend him, the language in some places not being quite 
so quaint and old-fashioned as it should be ; and in one 
of the stanzas there is a false rhyme. When I have thus 
given the finishing stroke to his figure, I mean to grace 
him with two mottoes, a Greek and a Latin one, which, 
when the world shall see that I have only a little one of 
three words to the volume itself, and none to the books 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. I15 

of which it consists, they will perhaps understand as a 
stricture upon that pompous display of literature with 
which some authors take occasion to crowd their titles. 
Knox, in particular, who is a sensible man too, has not, 
I think, fewer than half a dozen to his Essa3rs. — Adieu. 

W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

November ay, 1784. 

My dear Friend— All the interest that you take in 
my new publication, and all the pleas that you urge in 
behalf of your right to my confidence, the moment I had 
read your letter, struck me as so many proofs of your 
regard — of a friendship in which distance and time make 
no abatement. But it is difficult to adjust opposite claims 
to the satisfaction of all parties. I have done my best, 
and must leave it to your candour to put a just interpreta- 
tion upon all that has passed, and to give me credit for it, 
as a certain truth, that whatever seeming defects, in point 
of attention and attachment to you, my conduct on this 
occasion may have appeared to have been chargeable with, 
I am in reality as clear of all real ones, as you would wish 
to find me. 

I send you enclosed, in the first place, a copy of the 
advertisement to the reader, which accounts for my title, 
not otherwise easily accounted for ; secondly, what is 
called an argument, or a summary of the contents of each 
book, more circumstantial and diffuse by far than that 
which I have sent to the press. It will give you a pretty 
accurate acquaintance with my matter, though the tenons 
and mortises by which the several passages are connected, 
and let into each other, cannot be explained in a syllabus ; 
and lastly, an extract as you desired. The subject of it, 
I am sure, will please you, and, as I have admitted into 



Il6 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

my description no images but what are scriptural, and 
have aimed as exactly as I could at the plain and simple 
sublimity of the Scripture language, I have hopes the 
manner of it may please you too. As far as the numbers 
and diction are concerned, it may serve pretty well for a 
sample of the whole. But the subjects being so various, 
no single passage can in all respects be a specimen of the 
bopk at large. 

iMy principal purpose is to allure the reader by character, 
by scenery, by imagery, and such poetical embellishments, 
to the reading of wh?it may profit him. Subordinately to 
this, to combat that predilection in favour of a metropolis 
that beggars and exhausts the country, by evacuating it 
of all its principal inhabitants ; and collaterally, and as far 
as is consistent with this double intention, to have a stroke 
at vice, vanity, and folly, wherever I find themS I have 
not spared the Universities. A letter which appeared in 
the General Evening Post of Saturday, said to have 
been received by a general officer, and by him sent to the 
press as worthy of public notice, and which has all the 
appearance of authenticity, would alone justify the severest 
censure of those bodies, if any such justification were 
wanted. By way of supplement to what I have written on 
this subject, I have added a poem, called "Tirocinium," 
which is in rhyme. It treats of the scandalous relaxation 
of discipline that obtains in almost all schools universally, 
but especially in the largest, which are so n^ligent in the 
article of morals, that boys are debauched, in general, the 
moment they are capable of being so. It recommends the 
office of tutor to the father, where there is no real impedi- 
ment ; the expedient of a domestic tutor, where there is ; 
and the disposal of bo3rs into the hands of a respectable 
country clergyman, who limits his attention to two, in all 
cases where they cannot be conveniently educated at 
home. Mr. Unwin happily affording me an instance in 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. II7 

point, the poem is inscribed to him. You will now, I 

hope, command your hunger to be patient, and be satisfied 

with the limcheon that I send till dinner comes. That 

piecemeal perusal of the work, sheet by sheet, would be 

so disadvantageous to the work itself, and therefore so 

uncomfortable to me, that, I dare say, you will waive 

your desire of it. A poem thus disjointed cannot possibly 

be fit for anybody's inspection but the author's. 

Tully's rule, 

** Nulla dies sine linea/' 

will make a volume in less time than one would suppose. 
I adhered to it so rigidly, that though more than once I 
found three lines as many as I had time to compass, still 
I wrote ; and finding occasionally, and, as it might happen, 
a more fluent vein, the abundance of one day made me 
amends for the barrenness of another. But I do not 
mean to write blank verse again. Not having the music 
of rhyme, it requires so close an attention to the pause 
and the cadence, and such a peculiar mode of expression, 
as render it, to me at least, the most difficult species of 
poetry that I have ever meddled with. 

I am obliged to you, and to Mr. Bacon, for your kind 
remembrance of me when you meet. No artist can excel 
as he does without the finest feelings ; and every man 
that has the finest feelings is, and must be amiable. — 
Adieu, my dear friend. Affectionately yours, 

W. C. 

TO THE SAME. 

December 13, 1784. 
My dear Friend — Having imitated no man, I may 
reasonably hope that I shall not incur the disadvantage of 
a comparison with my betters. Milton's manner was 
peculiar. So is Thomson's. He that should write like 
either of them would in my judgment deserve the name 



/ 



Il8 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

of a copyist, but not of a poet. A judicious and sensible 
reader therefore, like yourself, will not say that my manner 
is not good, because it does not resemble theirs, but will 
rather consider what it is in itself. Blank verse is sus- 
ceptible of a much greater diversification of manner than 
verse in rhyme ; and why the modem writers of it have 
all thought proper to cast their numbers alike, I know 
not. Certainly it was not necessity that compelled them 
to it. I flatter mjrself, however, that I have avoided that 
sameness with others, which would entitle me to nothing 
but a share in one common oblivion with them all. It 
is possible that, as a reviewer of my former volume found 
cause to say that he knew not to what class of writers to 
refer me, the reviewer of this, whosoever he shall be, may 
see occasion to remark the same singularity. At any rate, 
though as little apt to be sanguine as most men, and more 
prone to fear and despond than to overrate my own pro- 
ductions, I am persuaded that I shall not forfeit anything 
by this volume that I gained by the last. As to the title, 
I take it to be the best that is to be had. It is not possible 
that a book, including such a variety of subjects, and in 
which no particular one is predominant, should find a 
title adapted to them all. In such a case it seemed almost 
necessary to accommodate the name to the incident that 
gave birth to the poem ; nor does it appear to me that 
because I performed more than my task, therefore the 
Task is not a suitable title. A house would still be a 
house though the builder of it should make it ten times 
as big as he at first intended. I might, indeed, following 
the example of the Sunday newsmonger, call it the **01io." 
But I should do m)rself wrong ; for though it have much 
variety, it has, I trust, no confusion. 

For the same reason none of the interior titles apply 
themselves to the contents at large of that book to which 
they belong. They are, every one of them, taken either 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 19 

from the leading (I should say the introductory) passage 
of that particular book, or from that which makes the 
most conspicuous figure in it. Had I set off with a design 
to write upon a gridiron, and had I actually written near 
two hundred lines upon that utensil, as I have upon the 
"Sofa," the gridiron should have been my title. But the 
"Sofa" being, as I may say, the starting-post from which 
I addressed myself to the long race that I soon conceived 
a design to run, it acquired a just pre-eminence in my 
account, and was very worthily advanced to the titular 
honour it enjoys, its right being at least so far a good one, 
that no word in the language could pretend a better. 

The ** Timepiece " appears to me (though by some 
accident the import of that title has escaped you) to have a 
degree of propriety beyond the most of them. The book to 
which it belongs is intended to strike the hour that gives 
notice of approaching judgment, and, dealing pretty largely 
in the sipts of the times, seems to be denominated, as it 
is, with a sufficient degree of accommodation to the subject. 

As to the word worm, it is the very appellation which 
Milton himself, in a certain passage of the Paradise Lost, 
gives to the serpent. Not having the book at hand, I 
cannot now refer to it, but I am sure of the fact. I am 
mistaken, too, if Shakespeare's Cleopatra do not call the 
asp, by which she thought fit to destroy herself, by the 
same name. But not having read the play these five-and- 
twenty years, I will not affirm it. They are, however, 
without all doubt, convertible terms ; a worm is a small 
serpent, and a serpent is a large worm ; and when an 
epithet significant of the most terrible species of those 
creatures is adjoined, the idea is surely sufficiently ascer- 
tained. No animal of the vermicular or serpentine kind 
is crested, but the most formidable of all. 

We do not often see, or rather feel, so severe a frost 
before Christmas. Unexpected, at least by me, it had 



I20 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

like to have been too much for my greenhouse, my myrtles 
having found themselves yesterday morning in an atmos- 
phere so cold that the mercury was fallen eight degrees 
below the freezing point. 

We are truly sorry for Mrs. Newton's indisposition, and 
shall be glad to hear of her recovery. We are most liable 
to cold at this season, and at this season a cold is most 
difficult of cure. 

Be pleased to remember us to the young ladies, and to 
all under your roof and elsewhere who are mindful of us. 
— And believe me, your affectionate, 

William Cowper. 

Your letters are gone to their address. The oysters 
were very good. 



TO MR. JOHNSON^ [PRINTER]. 

I DID not write the line that has been tampered with 
hastily, or without due attention to the construction of it ; 
and what appeared to me its only merit is, in its present 
state, entirely annihilated. 

I know that the ears of modem verse writers are delicate 
to an excess, and their readers are troubled with the same 
squeamishness as themselves. So that if a line do not run 
as smooth as quicksilver, they are offended. A critic of 
the present day serves a poem as a cook does a dead 
turkey, when she fastens the legs of it to a post and draws 
out all the sinews. For this we may thank Pope ; but 
unless we could imitate him in the closeness and compact- 

1 It happened that some accidental reviser of the manuscript had 
taken the liberty to alter a line in a poem of Cowpcr's. This liberty 
drew from the offended poet the following very just and animated 
remonstrance, which I am anxious to preserve, because it elucidates, 
with great felicity of expression, his deliberate ideas on English 
versification.— Note by Haylev. 



LETTERS FROM OLI^. 

ness of his expression, as well as in the stt. 
numbers, we had better drop the imitation, 
no other purpose than to emasculate and we^ 
write. Give me a manly rough line, with a deaK 
ing in it, rather than a whole poem full of musical ^ 
that have nothing but their oily smoothness to recomv 
them ! 

I have said thus much, as I hinted in the beginning, 
because I have just finished a much longer poem than the 
last, which our common friend will receive by the same 
messenger that has the charge of this letter. In that poem 
there are many lines which an ear so nice as the gentle- 
man's who made the above-mentioned alteration would 
undoubtedly condemn ; and yet (if I may be permitted to 
say it) they cannot be made smoother without being the 
worse for it. There is a roughness on a plum which 
nobody that understands fruit would rub off, though the 
plum would be much more polished without it. But, lest 
I tire you, I will only add that I wish you to guard me 
from all such meddling ; assuring you that I always write 
as smoothly as I can ; but that I never did, never will, 
sacrifice the spirit or sense of a passage to the sound of it. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

December 18, 1784. 

My dear Friend — I condole with you that you had 
the trouble to ascend St. Paul's in vain, but at the same 
time congratulate you that you escaped an ague. I should 
be very well pleased to have a fair prospect of a balloon 
under sail, with a philosopher or two on board, but at the 
same time should be very sorry to expose myself for any 
length of time to the rigour of the upper regions, at this 
season, for the sake of it. The travellers themselves, I 
suppose, are secured from all injuries of the weather by 



122 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

that fervency of spirit and agitation of mind which must 
needs accompany them in their flight ; advantages which 
the more composed and phlegmatic spectator is not equally 
possessed of. 

The inscription of the poem is more your own affair 
than any other person's. You have therefore an undoubted 
right to fashion it to your mind, nor have I the least objec- 
tion to the slight alteration that you have made in it. I 
inserted what you have erased for a reason that was 
perhaps rather chimerical than solid. I feared, however, 
that the reviewers, or some of my sagacious readers, not 
more merciful than they, might suspect that there was a 
secret design in the wind ; and that author and friend had 
consulted in what manner author might introduce friend 
to public notice as a clergyman every way qualified to 
entertain a pupil or two, if perad venture any gentleman 
of fortune were in want of a tutor for his children. I 
therefore added the words " and of his two sons only " by 
way of insinuating that you are perfectly satisfied with 
your present charge, and that you do not wish for more ; 
thus meaning to obviate an illiberal construction which 
we are both of us incapable of deserving. But the same 
caution not having appeared to you to be necessary, I am 
very willing and ready to suppose that it is not so. 

I intended in my last to have given you my reasons for 
the compliment I have paid Bishop Bagot, lest, knowing 
that I have no personal connexion with him, you should 
suspect me of having done it rather too much at a venture. 
In the first place, then, I wished the world to know that 
I have no objection to a bishop, quid bishop. In the 
second place, the brothers were all five my schoolfellows, 
and very amiable and valuable boys they were. Thirdly, 
Lewis, the bishop, had been rudely and coarsely treated 
in the Monthly Review^ on account of a sermon, which 
appeared to me, when I read their extract from it, to deserve 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 23 

the highest commendations, as exhibiting explicit proof 
both of his good sense and his unfeigned piety. For these 
causes me thereunto moving, I felt myself happy in an 
opportunity to do public honour to a worthy man who had 
been publicly traduced ; and, indeed, the reviewers them- 
selves have since repented of their aspersions, and have 
travelled not a little out of their way in order to retract 
them, having taken occasion, by the sermon preached at 
the bishop's visitation at Norwich, to say everything hand- 
some of his lordship, who, whatever might be the merit 
of the discourse, in that instance at least, could himself 
lay claim to no other than that of being a hearer. 

Since I wrote I have had a letter from Mr. Newton 
that did not please me, and returned an answer to it that 
possibly may not have pleased him. His was fretful and 
peevish, and mine, if not chargeable with exactly the same 
qualities, was, however, dry and unsavoury enough. We 
shall come together again soon, I suppose, upon as amicable 
terms as usual. But at present he is in a state of mortifica- 
tion. He would have been pleased had the book passed out 
of his hands into yours, or even out of yours into his, so that 
he had previously had opportunity to advise a measure 
which I pursued without his recommendation, and had 
seen the poems in manuscript. But my design was to 
pay you a whole compliment, and I have done it. If he 
says more on the subject I shall speak freely, and perhaps 
please him less than I have done already. 

We wished to have thanked you sooner for three fine 
cod, with shrimps and oysters, all excellent in their way, 
but knew not where a letter might find you. — Yours, with 
our love to all, W. C. 

TO THE SAME. 

April ^o, 1785. 

My dear Friend — I return you thanks for a letter so 



124 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

warm with the intelligence of the celebrity of "John Gilpin." 
I little thought when I mounted him upon my Pegasus 
that he would become so famous., I have learned also 
from Mr. Newton that he is equally renowned in Scotland, 
and that a lady there had undertaken to write a second 
part, on the subject of Mrs. Gilpin*s return to London, 
but, not succeeding in it as she wished, she dropped it. 
He tells me likewise that the head master of St. Paul's 
school (who he is I know not) has conceived, in consequence 
of the entertainment that John has afforded him, a vehement 
desire to write to me. Let us hope he will alter his mind ; 
for should we even exchange civilities on the occasion. 
Tirocinium will spoil all. The great estimation, however, 
in which this knight of the stone bottles is held may turn 
out a circumstance propitious to the volume of which his 
history will make a part. Those events that prove the 
prelude to our greatest success are often apparently trivial in 
themselves, and such as seemed to promise nothing. The 
disappointment that Horace mentions is reversed : we 
design a mug, and it proves a hogshead. It is a little 
hard that I alone should be unfurnished with a printed 
copy of this facetious story. When you visit London next 
you must buy the most elegant impression of it, and bring 
it with you. I thank you also for writing to Johnson. I 
likewise wrote to him myself. Your letter and mine 
together have operated to admiration. There needs 
nothing more but that the effect be lasting, and the whole 
will soon be printed. We now draw towards the middle 
of the fifth book of the Task, The man Johnson is like 
unto some vicious horses that I have known ; they would 
not budge till they were spurred, and when they were 
spurred they would kick. So did he ; his temper was 
somewhat disconcerted, but his pace was quickened, and 
I was contented. 
I was very much pleased with the following sentence in 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 25 

Mr. Newton's last : — " I am perfectly satisfied with the 
propriety of your proceeding as to the publication. " Now, 
therefore, we are friends again. Now he once more inquires 
after the work, which, till he had disburdened himself of 
this acknowledgment, neither he nor I, in any of our 
letters to each other, ever mentioned. Some side-wind 
has wafted to him a report of those reasons by which I 
justified my conduct. I never made a secret of them ; but 
both your mother and I have studiously deposited them 
with those who we thought were most likely to transmit 
them to him. They wanted only a hearing, which once 
obtained, their solidity and cogency were such that they 
were sure to prevail. 

You mention Bensley. I formerly knew the man you 
mention, but his elder brother much better. We were 
schoolfellows, and he was one of a club of seven West- 
minster men, to which I belonged, who dined together 
every Thursday. Should it please God to give me ability 
to perform the poet's part to some purpose, many whom 
I once called friends, but who have since treated me with 
a most magnificent indifference, will be ready to take me 
by the hand again, and some, whom I never held in that 
estimation, will, like Bensley (who was but a boy when I 
left London), boast of a connexion with me which they 
never had. Had I the virtues, and graces, and accom- 
plishments of St. Paul himself, I might have them at 
Olney and nobody would care a button about me, yourself 
and one or two more excepted. Fame begets favour, and 
one talent, if it be rubbed a little bright by use and 
practice, will procure a man more friends than a thousand 
virtues. Dr. Johnson, I believe, in the life of one of our 
poets — I believe of Savage — says that he retired from the 
world flattering himself that he should be regretted. But 
the world never missed him. I think his observation upon 
it is that the vacancy made by the retreat of any individual 



126 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

is soon filled up ; that a man may always be obscure if he 
chooses to be so ; and that he who neglects the world will 
be by the world neglected. 

Your mother and I walked yesterday in the Wilderness. 
As we entered the gate a glimpse of something white, 
contained in a little hole in the gate-post, caught my eye. 
I looked again, and discovered a bird's nest, with two 
tiny eggs in it. By and by they will be fledged, and 
tailed, and get wing feathers, and fly. My case is some- 
what similar to that of the parent bird ; my nest is in a 
little nook ; here I brood and hatch, and in due time my 
progeny takes wing and whistles. 

We wait for the time of your coming with pleasant 
expectation. — Yours truly, W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

September 2^i 1785. 
My dear Friend^ — I am sorry that an excursion which 
you would otherwise have found so agreeable was attended 
with so great a drawback upon its pleasures as Miss 
Cunningham's illness must needs have been. Had she 
been able to bathe in the sea it might have been of service 
to her ; but I knew her weakness and delicacy of habit to 
be such as did not encourage any very sanguine hopes that 
the regimen would suit her. I remember Southampton 
well, having spent much time there ; but, though I was 
young, and had no objections on the score of conscience 
either to dancing or cards, I never was in the assembly 
room in my life. I never was fond of company, and 
especially disliked it in the country. A walk to Netley 
Abbey, or to Freemantle, or to Redbridge, or a book by 
the fireside, had alwajrs more charms for me than any 
other amusement that the place afforded. I was also a 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 27 

sailor, and, being of Sir Thomas Hesketh's party, who 
was himself born one, was often pressed into the service. 
But though I gave myself an air, and wore trousers, I had 
no genuine right to that honour, disliking much to be 
occupied in great waters, unless in the finest weather. 
How they contrive to elude the wearisomeness that attends 
a sea life who take long vo3rages you know better than I ; 
but for my own part, I seldom have sailed so far as from 
Hampton river to Portsmouth without feeling the confine- 
ment irksome, and sometimes to a degree that was almost 
insupportable. There is a certain perverseness, of which 
I believe all men have a share, but of which no man has 
a larger share than I, — I mean that temper, or humour, 
or whatever it is to be called, that indisposes us to a 
situation, though not unpleasant in itself, merely because 
we cannot get out of it. I could not endure the room in 
which I now write were I conscious that the door were 
locked. In less than five minutes I should feel myself a 
prisoner, though I can spend hours in it under an assur- 
ance that I may leave it when I please, without experi- 
encing any tedium at all. It was for this reason, I suppose, 
that the yacht was always disagreeable to me. Could I 
have stepped out of it into a cornfield or garden, I should 
have liked it well enough ; but, being surrounded by water, 
I was as much confined in it as if I had been surrounded 
by fire ; and did not find that it made me any adequate 
compensation for such an abridgment of my liberty. I 
make little doubt but Noah was glad when^ie was enlarged 
from the ark ; and we are sure that Jonah was when he 
came out of the fish ; and so was I to escape from the 
good sloop the " Harriet." 

In my last I wrote you word that Mr. Perry was given 
over by his friends, and pronounced a dead man by his 
physician. Just when I had reached the end of the fore- 
going paragraph, he came in. His errand hither was to 



128* LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

bring two letters, which I enclose ; one is to yourself, in 
which he will give you, I doubt not, such an account both 
of his body and mind as will make all that I might say upon 
those subjects superfluous. The only consequences of his 
illness seem to be that he looks a little pale, and that, 
though always a most excellent man, he is still more 
angelic than he was. Illness sanctified is better than 
health. But I know a man who has been a sufferer by a 
worse illness than his almost these fourteen years, and 
who at present is only the worse for it.i 

Mr. Scott called upon us yesterday. He is much inclined 
to set up a Sunday school, if he can raise a fund for the 
purpose. Mr. Jones has had one some time at Clifton, 
and Mr. Unwin writes me word that he has been thinking 
of nothing else day and night for a fortnight. It is a 
wholesome measure that seems to bid fair to be pretty 
generally adopted, and, for the good effects that it promises, 
deserves well to be so. I know not, indeed, while the 
spread of the Gospel continues so limited as it is, how a 
reformation of manners in the lower class of mankind can 
be brought to pass ; or by what other means the utter 
abolition of all principle ^mong them, moral as well as 
religious, can possibly be prevented. Heathenish parents 
can "only bring up heathenish children.; an assertion 
nowhere oftener or more clearly illustrated than at Olney, 
where children, seven years of age, infest the streets every 
evening with curses and with songs, to which it would be 
unseemly to grve their proper epithet. Such urchins as 
these could not be so diabolically accomplished unless by 
the connivance of their parents. It is well, indeed, if in 
some instances their parents be not themselves their 
instructors. Judging by their proficiency, one can hardly 
suppose any other. It is therefore doubtless an act of the 
greatest charity to snatch them out of such hands before 
the inveteracy of the evil shall have made it desperate. Mr. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. ' 129 

Teedon, I should imagine, will be employed as a teacher 
should this expedient be carried into effect. I know not, 
at least, that we have any other person among us so well 
qualified for the service. He is indisputably a Christian 
man, and miserably poor, whose revenues need improve- 
ment as much as any children in the world can possibly 
need instruction. 

I understand that Mr. Jones is in London ; it is possible 
that you may have seen him, and, if you have, are better 
acquainted with his present intentions respecting Lord 
Peterborough than myself. We saw him not long since, 
when he talked of resigning his office immediately ; but I 
hear that he was afterwards otherwise advised, and repented 
of his purpose. I think it great pity that he did. A thing 
that a man had better never have touched cannot too soon 
be relinquished. While his principal kept himself at a 
distance his connexion with him was less offensive ; but 
now, to all who interest themselves in his conduct as a 
minister of the gospel, it is an offence indeed. He seems 
aware of it, and we hope, therefore, will soon abandon it. 

Mrs. Unwin hopes that a hare, which she sent before 
Mrs. Newton went her journey, arrived safe. By this 
week's coach she also sent three fowls and a ham, with 
cabbage, of whose safe arrival she will likewise be glad 
to hear. She has long been troubled with a pain in her 
side, which we take to be of the spasmodic kind, but is 
otherwise well. She joins with me in love to yourself and 
Mrs. Newton, and to the young ladies; neither do we 
forget Sally Johnson. — Believe me, my dear friend, with 
true affection, yours. W. C. 

Hannah desires me to give her duty to Miss Cunningham 
and Miss Catlett. 



I30 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER, 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

October 12, 1785. 
My dear Cousin — It is no new thing with you to give 
pleasure. But I will venture to say that you do not often 
give more than you gave me this morning. When I came 
down to breakfast, and found upon the table a letter 
franked by my uncle, and when opening that frank I 
found that it contained a letter from you, I said within 
myself — *' This is just as it should be. We are all grown 
young again, and the days that I thought I should see no 
more are actually returned." You perceive, therefore, 
that you judged well when you conjectured that a line 
from you would not be disagreeable to me. It could not 
be otherwise than, as in fact it proved, a most agreeable 
surprise, for I can truly boast of an affection for you that 
neither years nor interrupted intercourse have at all 
abated. I need only recollect how much I valued you 
once, and with how much cause, immediately to feel a 
revival of the same value ; if that can be said to revive 
which at the most has only been dormant for want of 
employment. But I slander it when I say that it has 
slept. A thousand times have I recollected a thousand 
scenes, in which our two selves have formed the whole of 
the drama, with the greatest pleasure ; at times, too, when 
I had no reason to suppose that I should ever hear from 
you again. I have laughed with you at the Arabian 
Nights' Entertainment, which afforded us, as you well 
know, a fund of merriment that deserves never to be 
forgot. I have walked with you to Netley Abbey, and 
have scrambled with you over hedges in every direction ; 
and many other feats we have performed together upon 
the field of my remembrance, and all within these few 
years. Should I say within this twelvemonth I should 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. I31 

not transgress the truth. The hours that I have spent 
with you were among the pleasantest of my former da3rs, 
and are therefore chronicled in my mind so deeply as to 
fear no erasure. Neither do I forget my poor friend Sir 
Thomas. I should remember him indeed, at any rate, 
on account of his personal kindness to myself; but the 
last testimony that he gave of his regard for you endears 
him to me still more. With his uncommon understanding 
(for with many peculiarities he had more sense than any 
of his acquaintance), and with his generous sensibilities, 
it was hardly possible that he should not distinguish you 
as he has done. As it was the last, so it was the best 
proof that he could give of a judgment that never 
deceived him when he would allow himself leisure to 
consult it. 

You say that you have often heard of me ; that puzzles 
me. I cannot imagine from what quarter ; but it is no 
matter. I must tell you, however, my cousin, that your 
information has been a little defective. That I am happy 
in my situation is true ; I live, and have lived these 
twenty years, with Mrs. Unwin, to whose affectionate 
care of me during the far greater part of that time it is, 
under Providence, owing that I live at all. But I do not 
account myself happy in having been for thirteen of those 
years in a state of mind that has made all that care and 
attention necessary ; an attention and a care that have 
injured her health, and which, had she not been un- 
commonly supported, must have brought her to the grave. 
But I will pass to another subject ; it would be cruel to 
particularise only to give pain, neither would I by any 
means give a sable hue to the first letter of a correspond- 
ence so unexpectedly renewed. 

I am delighted with what you tell me of my uncle's 
good health. To enjoy any measure of cheerfulness at so 
late a day is much. But to have that late day enlivened 



132 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

with the vivacity of youth is much more, and in these 
post-diluvian times a rarity indeed. Happy for the most 
part are parents who have daughters. Daughters are not 
apt to outlive their natural affections, which a son has 
generally survived even before his boyish years are expired. 
I rejoice particularly in my uncle's felicity, who has three 
female descendants from his little person, who leave him 
nothing to wish for upon that head. 

My dear cousin, dejection of spirits, which I suppose 
may have prevented many a man from becoming an author, 
made me one. I find constant employment necessary, 
and therefore take care to be constantly employed. 
Manual occupations do not engage the mind sufficiently, 
as I know by experience, having tried many. But com- 
position, especially of verse, absorbs it wholly. I write, 
therefore, generally three hours in a morning, and in an 
evening I transcribe. I read also, but less than I write, 
for I must have bodily exercise, and therefore never pass 
a day without it. 

You ask me where I have been this summer. I.answer, 
at Olney. Should you ask me where I spent the last 
seventeen summers, I should still answer at Olney. Ay, and 
the winters also ; I have seldom left it, and except when I 
attended my brother in his last illness, never, I believe, a 
fortnight together. 

Adieu, my beloved cousin, I shall not always be thus 
nimble in reply, but shall always have great pleasure in 
answering you when I can. — Yours, my dear friend and 
cousin, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Olney, November 9, 1785. 
My dearest Cousin, whose last most affectionate 
letter has run in my head ever since I received it, and 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 133 

which I now sit down to answer two days sooner than the 
post will serve me — I thank you for it, and with a warmth 
for which I am sure you will give me credit, though I do 
not spend many words in describing it. I do not seek 
ftew friends, not being altogether sure that I should find 
them, but have unspeakable pleasure in being still beloved 
by an old one. I hope that now our correspondence has 
suffered its last interruption, and that we shall go down 
together to the grave, chatting and chirping as merrily as 
such a scene of things as this will permit. 

I am happy that my poems have pleased you. My 
volume has afforded me no such pleasure at any time, 
either while I was writing it or since its publication, as I 
have derived from yours and my uncle's opinion of it. I 
make certain allowances for partiality, and for that peculiar 
quickness of taste with which you both relish what you 
like, and, after all drawbacks upon those accounts duly 
made, find myself rich in the measure of your approbation 
that still remains. But, above all, I honour '* John Gilpin," 
since it was he who first encouraged you to write. I 
made him on purpose to laugh at, and he served his 
purpose well ; but I am now in debt to him for a more 
valuable acquisition than all the laughter in the world 
amounts to, the recovery of my intercourse with you, 
which is to me inestimable. 

My benevolent and generous cousin, when I was once 
asked if I wanted anything, and given delicately to under- 
stand that the inquirer was ready to supply all my occasions, 
I thankfully and civilly, but positively declined the favour. 
I neither suffer, nor have suffered any such inconveniences 
as I had not much rather endure than come under obliga- 
tions of that sort to a person comparatively with yourself 
a stranger to me. But to you I answer otherwise. I 
know you thoroughly, and the liberality of your disposi- 
tion ; and have that consummate confidence in the 



134 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

sincerity of your wish to serve me that delivers me from 
all awkward constraint, and from all fear of trespassing 
by acceptance. To you therefore I reply, yes. Whenso- 
ever, and whatsoever, and in what manner soever you 
please ; and add, moreover, that my affection for the 
giver is such as will increase to me tenfold the satisfaction 
that I shall have in receiving. It is necessary, however, 
that I should let you a little into the state of my finances, 
that you may not suppose them more narrowly circum- 
scribed than they are. Since Mrs. Unwin and I have 
lived at Olney we have had but one purse, although during 
the whole of that time, till lately, her income was nearly 
double mine. Her revenues indeed are now in some 
measure reduced, and do not much exceed my own ; the 
worst consequence of this is that we are forced to deny 
ourselves some things which hitherto we have been better 
able to afford, but they are such things as neither life, nor 
the well-being of life, depend upon. My own income has 
been better than it is, but when it was best it would not 
have enabled me to live as my connexions demanded that 
I should, had it not been combined with a better than 
itself, at least at this end of the kingdom. Of this I had 
full proof during three months that I spent in lodgings at 
Huntingdon, in which time, by the help of good manage- 
ment, and a clear notion of economical matters, I contrived 
to spend the income of a twelvemonth. Now, my beloved 
cousin, you are in possession of the whole case as it stands. 
Strain no points to your own inconvenience or hurt, for 
there is no need of it, but indulge yourself in communi- 
cating (no matter what) that you can spare without missing 
it, since by so doing you will be sure to add to the comforts 
of my life one of the sweetest that I can enjoy, — a token 
and proof of your affection. 

In the affair of my next publication, toward which you 
also offer me so kindly your assistance, there will be no 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 35 

need that you should help me in the manner that you 
propose. It will be a large work, consisting, I should 
imagine, of six volumes at least. The twelfth of this 
month I shall have spent a year upon it, and it will cost 
me more than another. I do not love the booksellers well 
enough to make them a present of such a labour, but intend 
to publish by subscription. Your vote and interest, my dear 
cousin, upon the occasion, if you please, but nothing more. 
I will trouble you with some papers of proposals when the 
time shall come, and am sure that you will circulate as many 
for me as you can. Now, my dear, I am going to tell you 
a secret. It is a great secret, that you must not whisper 
even to your cat. No creature is at this moment apprised 
of it but Mrs. Unwin and her son. I am making a new 
translation of Homer, and am on the point of finishing the 
twenty -first book of the Iliad, The reasons upon which 
I undertake this Herculean labour, and by which I justify 
an enterprise in which I seem so effectually anticipated 
by Pope, although in fact he has not anticipated me at 
aU, I may possibly give you, if you wish for them, when 
I c^n find nothing more interesting to say, a period which 
I do not conceive to be very near I I have not answered 
many things in your letter, nor can do it at present for want 
of room. I cannot believe but that I should know you, 
notwithstanding all that time may have done. There is 
not a feature of your face, could I meet it upon the road 
by itself, that I should not instantly recollect. I should 
say, that is my cousin's nose, or those are her lips and her 
chin, and no woman upon earth can claim them but her- 
self. As for me, I am a very smart youth of my years. 
I am not indeed grown gray so much as I am grown bald. 
No matter. There was more hair in the world than ever 
had the honour to belong to me. Accordingly, having 
found just enough to curl a little at my ears, and to inter- 
mix with a little of my own that still hangs behind, I 



136 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

appear, if you see me in an afternoon, to have a very 
decent head-dress, not easily distinguished from my natural 
growth ; which being worn with a small bag, and a black 
ribbon about my neck, continues to me the charms of my 
youth, even on the verge of age. Away with the fear of 
writing too often. — Yours, my dearest cousin, 

W. C. 

P,S. — ^That the view I give you of mysdf may be com- 
plete, I add the two following items, — that I am in debt 
to nobody, and that I grow fat. 



TO THE SAME. 

Olnev, February 9, 1786. 

My DEAREST Cousin — I have been impatient to tell 
you that I am impatient to see you again. Mrs. Unwin 
partakes with me in all my feelings upon this subject, and 
longs also to see you. I should have told you so by the 
last post, but have been so completely occupied by this 
tormenting specimen that it was impossible to do it. I 
sent the General a letter on Monday that would distress 
and alarm him ; I sent him another yesterday, that will, 
I hope, quiet him again. Johnson has apologised very 
civilly for the multitude of his friend's strictures ; and his 
friend has promised to confine himself in future to a com- 
parison of me with the original, so that, I doubt not, we 
shall jog on merrily together. And now, my dear, let 
me tell you once more that your kindness in promising us 
a visit has charmed us both. I shall see you again. I 
shall hear your voice. We shall take walks together. I 
will show you my prospects, the hovel, the alcove, the 
Ouse and its banks, everything that I have described. I 
anticipate the pleasure of those days not very far distant, 
and I feel a part of it at this moment. Talk not of an 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 37 

inn ! Mention it not for your life I We have never had 
so many visitors but we could easily accommodate them 
all ; though we have received Unwin, and his wife, and 
his sister, and his son, all at once. My dear, I will not 
let you come till the end of May, or beginning of June, 
because before that time my greenhouse will not be ready 
to receive us, and it is the only pleasant room belonging 
to us. When the plants go out we go in. I line it with 
mats, and spread the floor with mats ; and there you shall 
sit with a bed of mignonette at your side, and a hedge of 
honeysuckles, roses, and jasmine ; and I will make you a 
bouquet of myrtle every day. Sooner than the time I 
mention, the country will not be in complete beauty. And 
I will tell you what you shall find at your first entrance. 
Imprimis, as soon as you have entered the vestibule, if 
you cast a look on either side of you, you shall see on the 
right hand a box of my making. It is the box in which 
have been lodged all my hares, and in which lodges Puss 
at present. But he, poor fellow, is worn out with age, and 
promises to die before you can see him. On the right 
hand stands a cupboard, the work of the same author ; it 
was once a dove-cage, but I transformed it. Opposite to 
you stands a table, which I also made. But a merciless 
servant having scrubbed it until it became paralytic, it 
serves no purpose now but of ornament ; and all my clean 
shoes stand under it. On the left hand, at the farther 
end of this superb vestibule, you will find the door of the 
parlour, into which I will conduct you, and where I will 
introduce you to Mrs. Unwin, unless we should meet her 
before, and where we will be as happy as the day is long. 
Order yourself, my cousin, to the "Swan" at Newport, and 
there you shall find me ready to conduct you to Olney. 

My dear, I have told Homer what you say about casks 
and urns, and have asked him whether he is sure that it 
is a cask in which Jupiter keeps his wine. He swears 



138 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

that it is a cask, and that it will never be anything better 
than a cask to eternity. So if the god is content with it, 
we must even wonder at his taste, and be so to.— Adieu ! 
my dearest, dearest cousin, ' W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Monday^ April io» 1786. 

That's my good cousin ! now I love you ! now I will 
think of June as you do, that it is the pleasantest of all 
months, unless you should happen to be here in November 
too, and make it equally delightful. Before I have finished 
my letter, Mrs. Unwin will have" taken a view of the house 
concerning which you inquire, and I shall be able to give 
you a circumstantial account of it. The man who built it 
is lately dead. He had been a common sailor, and assisted 
under Wolfe and Amherst at the taking of Quebec. "When 
we came hither he was almost penniless ; but, climbing 
by degrees into the lace business, amassed money, and 
built the house in question. Just before he died, having 
an enterprising genius, he put almost his whole substance 
to hazard in sending a large cargo of lace to America, and 
the venture failing, he has left his widow in penury and 
distress. For this reason I conclude that she will have 
no objection to letting as much of her house as my cousin 
will have occasion for, and have therefore given you this 
short history of the matter. The bed is the best in the 
town, and the honest tar*s folly was much laughed at, 
when it was known that he, who had so often swung in a 
hammock, had given twenty pounds for a bed. But now 
I begin to hope that he made a wiser bargain than once 
I thought it. She is no gentlewoman, as you may suppose, 
but she is nevertheless a very quiet, decent, sober body, 
and well respected among her neighbours. 

But Hadley, my dearest cousin, what is to be said of 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 39 

Hadley? Only this at present, that having such an 
inhabitant as Mr. Burrows, and the hope belonging to it 
of such another inhabitant as yourself, it has all charms, 
all possible recommendations. Yes, had I the wings that 
David wished for, I would surely stretch them to their 
utmost extent that I might reach any place where I should 
have you to converse with perhaps half the year. But, 
alas, my dear, instead of wings I have a chain and a collar, 
the history of which collar and chain Mrs. Unwin shall 
give you when you come ; else would I fly, and she would 
fly also, with the utmost alacrity to Hadley, or whitherso- 
ever you should call us, for Olney has no hold upon us in 
particular. Here have we no family connexions, no 
neighbours with whom we can associate, no friendships. 
If the country is pleasant, so also are other countries ; and 
so far as income is concerned, we should not, I suppose, 
find ourselves in a more expensive situation at Hadley, or 
anjrwhere, than here. But there are lets and hindrances 
which no power of man can remove, which will make 
your poor heart ache, my dear, when you come to know 
them. I will not say that they can never be removed, 
because I will not set bounds to that which has no bounds 
— the mercy of God ; but of the removal of them there is 
no present apparent probability. I knew a Mr. Burrows 
once ; it was when I lived in the Temple ; so far knew 
him that we simpered at each other when we met, and on 
opposite sides of the way touched hats. This Mr. 
Burrows, though at that time a young man, was rather 
remarkable for corpulence, and yet tall. He was at the 
bar. On a sudden I missed him, and was informed soon 
after that he had taken orders. Is it possible that your 
Mr. Burrows and mine can be the same ? The imagina- 
tion is not famous for taking good likenesses of persons 
and faces that we never saw. In general the picture that 
we draw in our minds of an inconnu is of all possible 



I40 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

pictures the most unlike the originaL So it has happened 
to me in this instance ; my fancy assured me that Mr. 
Burrows was a slim, elegant, young man, dressed always to 
the very point of exactness, with a sharp face, a small voice, 
a delicate address, and the gentlest maimers. Such was 
my dream of Mr. Burrows, and how my dream of him 
came to be such I know not, unless it arose from what I 
seemed to have collected out of the several letters in which 
you have mentioned him. From them I learned that he 
has wit, sense, taste, and genius, with which qualities I 
do not generally connect the ideas of bulk and rotundity ; 
and from them I also learned that he has numerous con- 
nexions at your end of the town, where the company of 
those who have anything rough in their exterior is least 
likely to be coveted. So it must have come to pass that 
I made to myself such a very unsuitable representation of 
him. But I am not sorry that he is such as he is. He 
is no loser by the bargain in my account. I am not the 
less delighted with his high approbation, and wish for no 
better fortune as a poet than always so to please such men 
as Mr. Burrows. I will not say, my dear, that you your- 
self gain any advantage in my opinion by the difference ; 
for to seat you higher there than you were always seated 
is not possible. I will only observe in this instance, as 
always in all instances, I discover a proof of your own 
good sense and discernment, who, finding in Mr. Burrows 
a mind so deserving of your esteem and regard, have not 
suffered your eye to prejudice you s^ainst it ; d^faux pas 
into which I have known ladies of very good understanding 
betrayed ere now, I assure you. Had there been a question 
last year of our meeting at Olney, I should have felt 
mjrself particularly interested in this inattention of yours 
to the figure, for the sake of its contents, for at that time 
I had rather more body than it became a man who 
pretends to public approbation as a poet to carry about 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. I4I 

him. But, thanks to Dr. Kerr, I do not at present 
measure an inch more in the girth than is perfectly con- 
sistent with the highest pretensions that way. Apollo 
himself is hardly more chargeable with prominence about 
the waist than I am. 

I by no means insist upon making ladies of the Trojan 
women, unless I can reconcile you to the term. But I 
must observe, in the first place, that though in our language 
the word be of modem use, it is likewise very ancient. 
We read in our oldest Bibles of the elect Lady^ and of 
Babylon the Lady of kingdoms. In the next place, the 
Grecians, — Homer, at least, — when a woman of rank is ac- 
costed, takes care in many instances that she shall be 
addressed in a style suited to her condition, for which 
purpose he employs a word more magnificent in its 
amount than even lady, and which literally signifies very 
little less than a goddess. The word that I mean — that 
I may make it legible to you, is Daimonie, There were, 
no doubt, in Troy, — but I will say no more of it. I have 
that to write about to my English lady that makes all the 
ladies of antiquity nothing worth to me. 

We are this moment returned firom the house above 
mentioned. The parlour is small and neat, not a mere 
cupboard, but very passable ; the chamber is better, and 
quite smart. There is a little room close to your own 
for Mrs. Eaton, and there is a room for Cookie and 
Samuel. The terms are half a guinea a week ; but it 
seems as if we were never to take a step without a stumble. 
The kitchen is bad, — ^it has, indeed, never been used ex- 
cept as a wash-house ; for people at Olney do not eat and 
drink as they do in other places. I do not mean, my dear, 
that they quaff nectar or feed on ambrosia, but tout au 
contraire. So what must be done about this abominable 
kitchen ? It is out of doors : that is not amiss. It has 
neither range nor jack : that is terrible. But then range 



142 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and jack are not unattainables ; they may be easily sup- 
plied. And if it were not, — abominable kitchen that it is, 
— no bigger than half an egg-shell, shift might be made. 
The good woman is content that your servants should eat 
and drink in her parlour, but expects that they shall dis- 
perse themselves when they have done. But whither, 
who can say ? unless into the arbour in the garden, for 
that they should solace themselves in the said kitchen 
were hardly to be expected. While I write this, Mrs. U. 
is gone to attempt a treaty with the linen-draper over the 
way, which, if she succeeds, will be best of all, because 
the rooms are better, and it is just at hand. I must halt 
till she returns. — She returns; — nothing done. — She is 
gone again to another place. Once more I halt. Again 
she returns and opens the parlour door with these tidings : 
— " I have succeeded beyond my utmost hopes. I went 
to Maurice Smith's ** (he, you must know, my dear, is a 
Jack-of-all-trades). " I said, * Do you know if Mr. Bright- 
man could and would let lodgings ready furnished to a lady 
with three servants ? * Maurice's wife calls out " (she is a 
Quaker) " * Why dost thee not take the vicarage ? * I re- 
plied, * There is no furniture.* *Phsaw !* quoth Maurice's 
wife ; * we will furnish it for thee, and at the lowest rate : 
— from a bed to a platter we find all !'" "And what 
do you intend now ? " said I to Mrs. Unwin, " Why, 
now," quoth she, " I am going to the curate to see what 
he says. " So away she goes, and in about twenty minutes 
returns. — "Well, now, it is all settled. Lady H. is to 
have all the vicarage, except two rooms, at the rate of 
ten guineas a year ; and Maurice will furnish it for five 
guineas from June to November, inclusive." So, my 
dear, you and your train are provided for to my heart's 
content. They are Lady Austen's lodgings, only with 
more room, and at the same price. You have a parlour 
sixteen feet by fourteen ; chamber ditto ; a room for your 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 43 

own maid, near to your own, that I have occupied many 
a good time ; an exceedingly good garret for Cookie, and 
another ditto, at a convenient distance, for Samuel ; a 
cellar, a good kitchen, the use of the garden ; — ^in short, 
all that you can want. Give us our commission in your 
next, and all shall be ready by the first of June. You 
will observe, my beloved cousin, that it is not in all above 
eight shillings a week in the whole year or but a trifle 
more. And the furniture is really smart, and the beds 
good. But you must find your own linen. Come, then, 
my beloved cousin, for I am determined that, whatsoever 
king shall reign, you shall be Vicar of Olney. Come 
and cheer my heart. I have left many things unsaid, 
but shall note them another time. Adieu ! — Ever yours, 

W. C. 

I am so charmed with the subject that concludes my 
letter that I grudge every inch of paper to any other. 
Yet, must I allow myself space to say that Lord Dart- 
mouth's behaviour to you at the concert has won my 
heart to him more than ever. It was such a well-timed 
kindness to me, and so evidently performed with an equal 
design of giving pleasure to you, that I love him for it 
at my heart. I have never, indeed, at any time, had 
occasion to charge him, as I know that many have done, 
with want of warmth in his firiendship. — I honour you, my 
dear, for your constellation of nobles. I rejoice that the 
contents of my box have pleased you ; may I never write 
anything that does not ! My fiiend Bull brought me 
to-day the last GentlemarCs Magazine, There your cousin 
is held up again. Oh rare Coz ! 



144 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

Olnev, May 20, 1786. 

My dear Friend — ^Within this hour arrived three sets 
of your new publication, for which we sincerely thank 
you. We have breakfasted since they came, and con- 
sequently, as you may suppose, have neither of us had yet 
an opportunity to make ourselves acquainted with the con- 
tents. I shall be happy (and, when I say that, I mean it 
to be understood in the fullest and most emphatical sense 
of the word) if my frame of mind shall be such as may 
permit me to study them. But Adam's approach to the 
tree of life, after he had sinned, was not more effectually 
prohibited by the flaming sword that turned every way, 
than mine to its great Antitype has been now almost these 
thirteen years, a short interval of three or four days, 
which passed about this time twelvemonth, alone ex- 
cepted. For what reason it is that I am thus long ex- 
cluded, if I am ever again to be admitted, is known to 
God only. I can say but this, that if He is still my 
Father, this paternal severity has towards me been such 
as that I have reason to account it unexampled. For 
though others have suffered desertion, yet few, I believe, 
for so long a time, and perhaps none a desertion accom- 
panied with such experiences. But they have this be- 
longing to them, that, as they are not fit for recital, being 
made up merely of infernal ingredients, so neither are 
they susceptible of it ; for I know no language in which 
they could be expressed. They are as truly things which 
it is not possible for man to utter as those were which 
Paul heard and saw in the third heaven. If the ladder of 
Christian experience reaches, as I suppose it does, to the 
very presence of God, it has nevertheless its foot in the 
abyss. And if Paul stood, as no doubt he did, in that 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. I45 

experience of his to which I have just alluded, on the 
topmost round of it, I have been standing and still stand 
on the lowest, in this thirteenth year that has passed since 
I descended. In such a situation of mind, encompassed 
by the midnight of absolute despair, and a thousand times 
filled with unspeakable horror, I first commenced an 
author. Distress drove me to it, and the impossibility of 
subsisting without some employment still recommends it. 
I am not, indeed, so perfectly hopeless as I was ; but I am 
equally in need of an occupation, being often as much, 
and sometimes even more, worried than ever. I cannot 
amuse myself as I once could, with carpenters* or with 
gardeners' tools, or with squirrels and guinea-pigs. At that 
time I was a child. But since it has pleased God, what- 
ever else He withholds, to restore to me a man's mind, 
I have put away childish things. Thus far, therefore, it 
is plain that I have not chosen or prescribed to myself 
my own way, but have been providentially led to it ; 
perhaps I might say, with equal propriety, compelled 
and scourged into it : for, certainly, could I have made 
my choice, or were I permitted to make it even now, 
those hours which I spend in poetry I would spend 
with God. But it is evidently His will that I should 
spend them as I do, because every other way of em- 
ploying them He himself continues to make impossible. 
If, in the course of such an occupation, or by inevitable 
consequence of it, either my former connexions of it are 
revived or new ones occur, these things are as much a 
part of the dispensations, as the leading points of it them- 
selves ; the effect as much as the cause. If His purposes 
in thus directing me are gracious, He will take care to 
prove them such in the issue, and in the meantime will 
preserve me (for He is able to do that in one condition as 
in another) from all mistakes in conduct that might prove 
pernicious to myself, or give reasonable offence to others. 

L 



146 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

I can say it as truly as it was ever spoken. — Here I am ; 
let Him do with me as seemeth Him good. 

At present, however, I have no connexions at which 
either you, I trust, or any who love me and wish me well, 
have occasion to conceive alarm. Much kindness indeed 
I have experienced at the hands of several, some of them 
near relations, others not related to me at all ; but I do 
not know that there is among them a single person from 
whom I am likely to catch contamination. I can say of 
them all with more truth than Jacob uttered when he 
called kid venison, "The Lord thy God brought them 
unto me." I could show you among them two men 
whose lives, though they have but little of what we call 
evangelical light, are ornaments to a Christian country ; 
men who fear God more than some who even profess to 
love Him. But I will not particularise farther on such 
a subject. Be they what they may, our situations are so 
distant, and we are likely to meet so seldom, that, were 
they, as they are not, persons of even exceptionable 
manners, their manners would have little to do with me. 
We correspond at present only on the subject of what 
passed at Troy three thousand years ago ; and they are 
matters that, if they can do no good, will at least hurt 
nobody. 

Your friendship for me, and the proof that I see of it 
in your friendly concern for my welfare on this occasion, 
demanded that I should be explicit. Assure yourself 
that I love and honour you, as upon all accounts, so 
' especially for the interest that you take and have ever 
taken in my welfare, most sincerely. I wish you all 
happiness in your new abode, all possible success in your 
ministry, and much fruit of your newly-published labours, 
and am — with Mrs. Unwin's love to yourself and Mrs. 
Newton — most affectionately yours, my dear friend, 

W C 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 47 

TO LADY HESKETH. 

Olney, May 25, 1786. 
I HAVE at length, my cousin, found my way into my 
summer abode. I believe that I described it to you some 
time since, and will therefore now leave it undescribed. 
I will only say that I am writing in a bandbox, situated, 
at least in my account, delightfully, because it has a 
window in one side that opens into that orchard through 
which, as I am sitting here, I shall see you often pass, 
and which therefore I already prefer to all the orchards 
in the world. You do well to prepare me for all possible 
delays, because in this life all sorts of disappointments are 
possible ; and I shall do well, if any such delay of your 
journey should happen, to practise that lesson of patience 
which you inculcate. But it is a lesson which, even with 
you for my teacher, I shall be slow to learn. Being sure, 
however, that you will not procrastinate without cause, I 
will make myself as easy as I can about it, and hope the 
best. To convince you how much I am under discipline 
and good advice, I will lay aside a favourite measure, 
influenced in doing so by nothing but the good sense of 
your contrary opinion. I had set my heart on meeting 
you at Newport. In my haste to see you once again I 
was willing to overlook many awkwardnesses I could not 
but foresee would attend it. I put them aside so long as 
I only foresaw them myself, but since I find that you fore- 
see them too, I can no longer deal so slightly with them. 
It is therefore determined that we meet at Olney. Much 
I shall feel, but I will not die if I can help it, and I beg 
that you will take all possible care to outlive it likewise, 
for I know what it is to be balked in the moment of 
acquisition, and should be loath to know it again. 

Last Monday, in the evening, we walked to Weston, 
according to our usual custom. It happened, owing to a 



148 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

mistake of time, that we set out half an hour sooner than 
usual. This mistake we discovered while we were in the 
Wilderness. So, finding that we had time before us, as 
they say, Mrs. Unwin proposed that we should go into 
the village and take a view of the house that I had just 
mentioned to you. We did so, and found it such a one 
as in most respects would suit you well. But Moses 
Brown, our vicar, who, as I told you, is in his eighty-sixth 
year, is not bound to die for that reason. He said him- 
self when he was here last sunmier that he should live ten 
years longer, and for aught that appears so he may. • In 
which case, for the sake of its near neighbourhood to us, 
the vicarage has charms for me that no other place can 
rival But this, and a thousand things more, shall be 
talked over when you come. 

We have been industriously cultivating our acquaintance 
with our Weston neighbours since I wrote last, and they 
on their part have been equally diligent in the same cause. 
I have a notion that we shall all suit well. I see much 
in them both that I admire. You know, perhaps, that they 
are Catholics. 

It is a delightful bundle of praise, my cousin, that you 
have sent me. All jasmine and lavender. Whoever the 
lady is, she has evidenly an admirable pen and a cultivated 
mind. If a person reads, it is no matter in what language, 
and if the mind be informed, it is no matter whether that 
mind belongs to a man or a woman. The taste and the 
judgment will receive the benefit alike in both. Long 
before the Task was published I made an experiment one 
day, being in a frolicsome mood, upon my fiiend. We 
were walking in the garden, and conversing on a subject 
similar to these lines : — 

The few that pray at all, pray oft amiss, 

And seeking grace t' improve the present good, 

Would urge a wiser suit than asking more. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 49 

I repeated them, and said to him, with an air of nonchu' 
lance, " Do you recollect those lines ? I have seen them 
somewhere ; where are they ?" He put on a considering 
face, and after some deliberation replied, " Oh, I will tell 
you where they must be — ^in the Night Thoughts.'*'* I 
was glad my trial turned out so well, and did not undeceive 
him. I mention this occurrence only in confirmation of 
the letter -writer's opinion, but at the same time I do 
assure you, on the faith of an honest man, that I never in 
my life designed an imitation of Young or of any other 
writer ; for mimicry is my abhorrence, at least in poetry. 

Assure yourself, my dearest cousin, that both for your 
sake, since you make a point of it, and for my own, I 
will be as philosophically careful as possible that these fine 
nerves of mine shall not be beyond measure agitated when 
you arrive. In truth, there is much greater probability 
that they will be benefited, and greatly too. Joy of heart, 
from whatever occasion it may arise, is the best of all 
nervous medicines ; and I should not wonder if such a 
turn given to my spirits should have even a lasting effect 
of the most advantageous kind upon them. You must 
not imagine, neither, that I am, on the whole, in any great 
degree subject to nervous affections ; occasionally I am, 
and have been these many years, much liable to dejection. 
But at intervals, and sometimes for an interval of weeks, 
no creature would suspect it. For I have not that which 
commonly is a S3anptom of such a case belonging to me, — 
I mean extraordinary elevation in the absence of Mr. 
Bluedevil. When I am in the best health my tide of 
animal sprightliness flows with great equality, so that I 
am never at any time exalted in proportion as I am some- 
times depressed. My depression has a cause, and if that 
cause were to cease I should be as cheerful thenceforth, 
and perhaps for ever, as any man need be. But, as I 
have often said, Mrs. Unwin shall be my expositor. 



150 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Adieu, my beloved cousin. God grant that our friend- 
ship, which, while we could see each other, never suffered 
a moment's interruption, and which so long a separation 
has not in the least abated, may glow in us to our last 
hour, and be renewed in a better world, there to be per- 
petuated for ever ! For you must know that I should 
not love you half so well if I did not believe you would 
be my friend to eternity. There is not room enough for 
friendship to unfold itself in frill bloom in such a nook of 
life as this. Therefore I am, and must, and will be, yours 
for ever, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Olnky, May 29, 1786. 
Thou dear, comfortable cousin, whose letters among 
all that I receive have this property peculiarly their own, 
that I expect them without trembling, and never find any- 
thing in them that does not give me pleasure ; for which, 
therefore, I would take nothing in exchange that the 
world could give me, save and except that for which I 
must exchange them soon — and happy shall I be to do so 
— your own company. That indeed is delayed a little too 
long ; to my impatience at least it seems so, who find the 
spring, backward as it is, too forward, because many of 
its beauties will have faded before you will have an oppor- 
tunity to see them. We took our customary walk yesterday 
in the Wilderness at Weston, and saw with regret the 
laburnums, syringas, and guelder-roses, some of them 
blown, and others just upon the point of blowing, and 
could not help observing — all these will be gone before 
Lady Hesketh comes. Still, however, there will be roses, 
and jasmine, and honeysuckle, and shady walks, and cool 
alcoves, and you will partake them with us. But I want 
you to have a share of everything that is delightful here. 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 151 

and cannot bear that the advance of the season should 
steal away a single pleasure before you can come to enjoy it. 

Every day I think of you, and almost all the day long ; 
I will venture to say that even ycm were never so expected 
in your life. I called last week at the Quaker's to see the 
furniture of your bed, the fame of which had reached me. 
It is, I assure you, superb, of printed cotton, and the 
subject classical. Every morning you will open your eyes 
on Phaeton kneeling to Apollo, and imploring his father 
to grant him the conduct of his chariot for a day. May 
your sleep be as sound as your bed will be sumptuous, 
and your nights at least will be well provided for. 

I shall send up the sixth and seventh books of the Iliad 
shortly, and shall address them to you. You will forward 
them to the General. I long to show you my workshop, 
and to see you sitting on the opposite side of my table. 
We shall be as close packed as two wax figures in an old- 
fashioned picture frame. I am writing in it now. It is 
the place in which I fabricate all my verse in summer 
time. I rose an hour sooner than usual this morning, 
that I might finish my sheet before breakfast, for I must 
write this day to the General. 

The grass under my windows is all bespangled with 
dewdrops, and the birds are singing in the apple trees, 
among the blossoms. Never poet had a more commodious 
oratory in which to invoke his muse. 

I have made your heart ache too often, my poor dear 
cousin, with talking about my fits of dejection. Some- 
thing has happened that has led me to the subject, or I 
would have mentioned them more sparingly. Do not 
suppose or suspect that I treat you with reserve ; there is 
nothing in which I am concerned that you shall not be 
made acquainted with. But the tale is too long for a 
letter. I will only add, for your present satisfaction, that 
the cause is not exterior, that it is not within the reach of 



152 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

human aid, and that yet I have a hope m3rself, and Mrs. 
Unwin a strong persuasion, of its removal. I am indeed 
even now, and have been for a considerable time, sensible 
of a change for the better, and expect, with good reason, 
a comfortable lift from you. Guess then, my beloved 
cousin, with what wishes I look forward to the time of 
your arrival, from whose coming I promise myself not only 
pleasure, but peace of mind, at least an additional share 
of it. At present it is an uncertain and transient guest 
with me, but the joy with which I shall see and converse 
with you at Olney may perhaps make it an abiding one. 

W. C. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

Olney, June 9, 1786. 

My dear Friend — The little time that I can devote 
to any other purpose than that of poetry is, as you may 
suppose, stolen. Homer is urgent. Much is done, but 
much remains undone, and no schoolboy is more attentive 
to the performance of his daily task than I am. You 
will therefore excuse me if at present I am both unfrequent 
and short. 

The paper tells me that the Chancellor has relapsed, 
and I am truly sorry to hear it. The first attack was 
dangerous, but a second must be more formidable still. 
It is not probable that I should ever hear from him again 
if he survive ; yet of the much that I should have felt for 
him had our connexion never been interrupted, I still feel 
much. Everybody will feel the loss of a man whose 
abilities have made him of such general importance. 

I correspond again with Colman, and upon the most 
firiendly footing, and find in his instance, and in some 
others, that an intimate intercourse, which has been only 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 53 

casually suspended, not forfeited on either side by outrage, 
is capable not only of revival, but improvement. 

I had a letter some time since from your sister Fanny 
that gave me great pleasure. Such notices from old friends 
are always pleasant, and of such pleasures I have received 
many lately. They refresh the remembrance of early da3rs, 
and make me young again. The noble institution of the 
Nonsense Club will be forgotten when we are gone who 
composed it ; but I often think of your most heroic line, 
written at one of our meetings, and especially of it when 
I am translating Homer — 

"To whom replied the Devil, yard-long tail'd." 

There never was anything more truly Grecian than that 
triple epithet, and were it possible to introduce it into 
either Iliad or Odyssey^ I should certainly steal it. I am 
now flushed with expectation of Lady Hesketh, who 
spends the summer with us. We hope to see her next 
week. We have found admirable lodgings both for her 
and her suite,' and a Quaker in this town, still more 
admirable than they, who, as if he loved her as much as 
I do, furnishes them for her with real elegance. 

W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

June 12, 1786. 
I AM neither young nor superannuated, yet am I a 
child. When I had read your letter I grumbled, not at 
you, my dearest cousin, for you are in no fault, but at the 
whole generation of coachmakers, as you may suppose, 
and at yours in particular. I foresaw and foreknew that 
he would fail in his promise, and yet was disappointed ; 
was in truth no more prepared for what I expected with 
so much reason than if I had not at all expected it. I 



154 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

grumbled till we went to dinner, and at intervals till we 
had dined ; and when dinner was over, with very little 
encouragement, I could actually have cried. And if I 
had, I should in truth have thought them tears as well 
bestowed as most that I have shed for many years. At first 
I numbered months, then weeks, and then days, and was 
just beginning to number hours, and now I am thrown 
back to da3rs again. My first speech was, after folding up 
your letter (for I will honestly tell you all), " I am crazed 
with Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays, and St. 
Albans, and Totteridges, and Hadley. When is she set 
out ? When is she to be here ? Do tell me, for perhaps you 
understand it better than I." "Why," says Mrs. Unwin 
(with much more composure in her air than properly 
belonged to her, for she also had her feelings on the 
occasion), " she sets out to-morrow se'nnight, and will be 
here on the Wednesday after. " " And who knows that ? " 
replied I ; " will the coachmaker be at all more punctual 
in repairing the old carriage than in making the new one ? 
For my part, I have no hope of seeing her this month, 
and if it be possible, I will not think of it, lest I should 
be again disappointed. " And to say the truth, my dear, 
though hours have passed since thus I said, and I have 
had time for cooler consideration, the suspicion still sticks 
close to me that more delays may happen. A philosopher 
would prepare himself for such an event, but I am no 
philosopher, at least when the comfort of seeing you is in 
question. I believe in my heart that there have been just 
as many true philosophers upon earth as there have been 
men that have had little or no feeling, and not one more. 

Swift truly says : — 

" Indifference clad in reason's guise, 
All want of fortitude supplies." 

When I wake in the night I feel my spirits the lighter 
because you are coming. When I am not in Troy I am 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 55 

either occupied in the recollection of a thousand passages 
of my past life, in which you were a partaker with me, 
or conversing about you with Mrs. Unwin. Thus my 
days and nights have been spent principally ever since 
you determined upon this journey, and especially, and 
almost without interruption from any other subject, since 
the time of your journey has seemed near at hand. While 
I despaired, as I did for many years, that I should ever 
see you more, I thought of you, indeed and often, but 
with less solicitude. I used to say to myself, Providence 
has so ordered it, and it is my duty to submit. He has 
cast me at a distance from her, and from all whom I once 
knew. He did it, and not I ; it is He who has chosen my 
situation for me. Have I not reason to be thankful that, 
since He designed me to pass a part of my life, and no in- 
considerable one neither, in a state of the deepest melan- 
choly, he appointed me a friend in Mrs. Unwin, who 
should share all my sorrows with me, and watch over me 
in my helpless condition night and day? What and 
where had I been without her? Such considerations 
were sufficient to reconcile me at that time to perpetual 
separation even from you, because perpetual I supposed 
it must be, and without remedy. But now every hour of 
your absence seems long, for this very natural reason, 
because the same Providence has given me a hope that 
you will be present with me soon. A good that seems at an 
immeasurable distance, and that we cannot hope to reach, 
has therefore the less influence on our affections. But 
the same good brought nearer, made to appear practicable, 
promised to our hopes, and almost in possession, engages 
all our faculties and desires. All this is according to the 
natural and necessary course of things in the human 
heart ; and the philosophy that would interfere with it 
is folly at least, if not frenzy. A throne has at present 
but little sensible attraction for me. And why ? PetKa.^s 



156 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

only because I know that should I break my heart with 
wishes for a throne I should never reach one. But did 
I know assuredly that I should put on a crown to-morrow, 
perhaps I too should feel ambition and account the inter- 
posing night tedious. The sum of the whole matter, my 
dear, is this, that this villainous coach-maker has mortified 
me monstrously, and that I tremble lest he should do 
so again. From you I have no fears. I see in your 
letter, and all the way through it, what pains you take to 
assure me and give me comfort. I am and will be com- 
forted for that very reason, and will wait still other ten 
days with all the patience that I can muster. You, I 
know, will be punctual if you can, and that, at least, is 
matter of real consolation. 

I approve altogether, my cousin beloved, of your send- 
ing your goods by the waggon on Saturday, and Cookie 
by the coach on Tuesday. She will be here perhaps by 
four in the afternoon, at the latest, by five, and will have 
quite time enough to find out all the cupboards and 
shelves in her department before you arrive. But I de- 
clare and protest that Cookie shall sleep that night at 
our house, and get her breakfast here next morning. 
You will break her heart, child, if you send her into a 
strange house where she will find nothing that has life 
but the curate, who has not much neither. Servant, he 
keeps none. A woman makes his bed, and, after a 
fashion, as they say, dresses his dinner, and then leaves 
him to his lucubrations. I do therefore insist on it, and 
so does Mrs. Unwin, that Cookie shall be our guest for 
that time, and from this we will not depart. I tell thee, 
besides, that I shall be more glad to see her, than ever I 
was in my life to see one whom I never saw before. 
Guess why, if you can. 

You must number your miles — fifty-six instead of fifty- 
four. The fifty-sixth mile ends but a few yards beyond 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 1 57 

the vicarage. Soon after you shall have entered Olney, 
you will find an opening on your right hand. It is a lane 
that leads to our dwelling. There your coach may stop 
and set down Mrs. Eaton ; when she has walked about 
forty yards she will spy a green gate and rails on her left 
hand ; and when she has opened the gate and reached 
the house-door, she will find herself at home. But we 
have another manoeuvre to play off upon you, and in 
which we positively will not be opposed, or if we are, it 
shall be to no purpose. I have an honest fellow that 
works in my garden : his name is Kitchener, and we called 
him Kitch for brevity. He is sober and trusty as the 
day. He has a smart blue coat, that, when I had worn 
it some years, I gave him, and now he has worn it some 
years himself. I shall set him on horseback and order him 
to the "Swan" at Newport, there to await your arrival, 
and if you should not stop at that place, as perhaps you 
may not, immediately to throw himself into your suite 
and to officiate as your guide. For though the way from 
Newport hither is short, there are turnings that might 
puzzle your coachman, and he will be of use too in con- 
ducting you to your house, which otherwise you might 
not easily find, partly though the stupidity of those of 
whom you might inquire, and partly firom its out-of-the- 
way situation. My brother drove up and down Olney in 
quest of us, almost as often as you up and down Chancery 
Lane in quest of the Madans, with fifty boys and girls at 
his tail, before he could find us. The first man, there- 
fore, you shall see in a blue coat with white buttons, in 
the famous town of Newport, cry, Kitch I He will im- 
mediately answer. My Lady I and from that moment you 
are sure not to be lost. 

Your house shall be as clean as scrubbing and dry- 
rubbing can make it, and in all respects fit to receive you. 
My friend the Quaker, in all that I have seen of his doings. 



158 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

has acquitted himself much to my satisfaction. Some 
little things, he says, will perhaps be missing at first, in 
such a multiplicity, but they shall be produced as soon 
as called for. Mrs. U. has bought you six ducks, and is 
fatting them for you. She has also rummaged up a coop 
that will hold six chickens, and designs to people it for 
you by the first opportunity ; for these things are not to 
be got fit for table at Olney. Thus, my dear, are all 
things in the best train possible, and nothing remains but 
that you come and show yourself. Oh that moment ! 
Shall we not both enjoy it ? — ^That we shall. 

I have received an anomymous complimentary Pindaric 
ode firom a little poet who calls himself a schoolboy. I 
send you the first stanza by way of specimen. You shall 
see it all soon. 

" To WILLLA.M COWPER, of the Inner Temple, 
Esq., of his poems in the second volume. 

" In what high strains, my Muse, wilt thou 
Attempt great Cowper's worth to show f 
Pindaric strains shall tune the lyre, 
And 't would require 
A Pindar's fire 

To sing great Cowper's worth, 
The lofty bard, delightful sage. 
Ever the wonder of the age. 
And blessing to the earth." 

Adieu, my precious cousin, your lofty bard and delight- 
ful sage expects you with all possible affection. — Ever 
yours, Wm. Cowper. 

I am truly sorry for your firiend Burrows ! 

Our dinner-hour is four o'clock. We will not surfeit 
you with delicacies ; of that be assured. I know your 
palate, and am glad to know that it is easily pleased. 
Were it other than it is, it would stand but a poor chance 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY, 159 

to be gratified at Olney. I undertake for lettuce and 
cucumber, and Mrs. U. for all the rest. If she feeds you 
too well you must humble her. 



TO THE REV. WILLIAM UNWIN. 

My dear William — How apt we are to deceive our- 
selves where self-interest is in question ! You say I am 
in your debt, and I accounted you in mine, — a mistake to 
which you must attribute my arrears, if indeed I owe you 
any, for I am not backward to write where the uppermost 
thought is welcome. 

I am obliged to you for all the books you have oc- 
casionally furnished me with. I did not indeed read 
many of Johnson's Classfts — those of established reputa- 
tion are so fresh in my memory, though many years have 
intervened since I made them my companions, that it 
was like reading what I read yesterday over again : 
and as to the minor Classics, I did not think them worth 
reading at all — I tasted most of them, and did not like 
them. It is a great thing to be indeed a poet, and does not 
happen to more than one man in a century. Churchill, 
the great Churchill, deserved the name of poet. Such . 
natural unformed efiusions of genius, the world, I believe, 
has never seen since the days of Shakspeare. I have 
read him twice, and some of his pieces three times 
over, and the last time with more pleasure than the first. 
The pitiful scribbler of his life seems to have undertaken 
that task, for which he was entirely unqualified, merely 
because it afforded him an opportunity to traduce him. 
He has inserted in it but one anecdote of consequence, 
for which he refers you to a novel, and introduces the 
story with doubts about the truth of it. But his barren- 
ness as a biographer I could forgive, if the simpleton had 
not thought himself a judge of his writings, and, under 



l6o LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

the erroneous influence of that thought, informed his 
reader that "Gotham," "Independence," and the "Times" 
were catch-pennies. "Gotham," unless I am a greater 
blockhead than he, which I am far from believing, is a 
noble and beautiful poem, and a poem with which I make 
no doubt the author took as much pains as with any he ever 
wrote. Making allowance (and Dryden, perhaps, in his 
Absolam and Achitophel stands in need of the same in- 
dulgence) for an unwarrantable use of Scripture, it appears 
to me to be a masterly performance. "Independence" 
is a most animated piece, frill of strength and spirit, and 
marked with that bold masculine character whidi I think 
is the great peculiarity of this writer. And the " Times " 
(except that the subject is disgusting to the last degree) 
stands equally high in my opinion. He is indeed a care- 
less writer for the most part ; but where shall we find in 
any of those authors who finish their works with the ex- 
actness of a Flemish pencil, those bold and daring strokes 
of fancy, those numbers so hazardously ventured upon, 
and so happily finished, the matter so compressed and yet 
so clear, and the colouring so sparingly laid on, and yet 
with such a beautiful effect ? In short, it is not his least 
praise that he is never guilty of those faults as a writer, 
which he lays to the charge of others ; a proof that he 
did not judge by a borrowed standard, or from rules laid 
down by critics, but that he was qualified to do it by 
his own native powers, and his great superiority of genius. 
For he that wrote so much, and so fast, would through 
inadvertence and hurry unavoidably have departed from 
rules which he might have found in books, but his own 
truly poetical talent was a guide which could not suffer 
him to err. A race-horse is graceful in his swiftest pace, 
and never makes an awkward motion though he is pushed 
to his utmost speed. A cart-horse might perhaps be taught 
to play tricks in the riding-school, and might prance and 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. l6l 

curvet like his betters, but at some unlucky time would 
be sure to betray the baseness of his original. It is an 
affair of very little consequence perhaps to the well-being 
of mankind, but I cannot help regretting that he died so 
soon. Those words of Virgil, upon the immature death 
of Marcellus, might serve for his epitaph : 

" Ostendent terns hunc tantum fata, Deque ultra 
Esse sinent ." 

—Yours, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Olnev, Sepiemhir 24, 1786. 

My dear William — So interesting a concern as your 
tutorship of the young gentleman in question cannot have 
been so long in a state of indecision without costing you 
much anxiety. We have s)rmpathised with you under it 
all, but are glad to be informed that the long delay is not 
chargeable upon Mr. Hornby. Bishops are icaica ^ly/xa, 
yourrepes apyoi. You have heard, I know, from Lady 
Hesketh, and she has exculpated me from all imputation 
of wilful silence, from which, indeed, of yourself you are 
so good as to discharge me in consideration of my present 
almost endless labour. I have nothing to say in particular 
on the subject of Homer, except that I am daily advancing 
in the work with all the despatch that a due concern for 
my own credit in the result will allow. 

You have had your troubles, and we ours. This day 
three weeks your mother received a letter from Mr. 
Newton, which she has not yet answered, nor is likely to 
answer hereafter. It gave us both much concern, but her 
more than me ; I suppose because my mind being neces- 
sarily occupied in my work, I had not so much leisure to 

M 



1 62 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

browse upon the wormwood that it contained. The 
purport of it is a direct accusation of me, and of her an 
accusation implied, that we have both deviated into for- 
bidden paths, and lead a life unbecoming the Gospel ; that 
many of my friends in London are grieved, and the simple 
people of Olney astonished; that he never so much doubted 
of my restoration to Christian privileges as now; — ^in short, 
that I converse too much with people of the world, and 
find too much pleasure in doing so. He concludes with 
putting your mother in mind that there is still an inter- 
course between London and Olney ; by which he means 
to insinuate that we cannot offend against the decorum 
that we are bound to observe but the news of it will most 
certainly be conveyed to him. We do not at all doubt it ; 
we never knew a lie hatched at Olney that waited long 
for a bearer ; and though we do not wonder to find our- 
selves made the subjects of false accusation in a place ever 
firuitful of such productions, we do and must wonder a 
little that he should listen to them with so much credulity. 
I say this because if" he had heard only the truth, or had 
believed no more than the truth, he would not, I think, 
have found either me censurable or your mother. And 
that she should be suspected of irregularities is the more 
wonderful (for wonderful it would be at any rate), because 
she sent him not long before a letter conceived in such 
strains of piety and spirituality as ought to have convinced 
him that she at least was no wanderer. But what is the 
fact, and how do we spend our [time] in reality ? What 
are the deeds for which we have been represented as thus 
criminal ? Our present course of life differs in nothing 
from that which we have both held these thirteen years, 
except that after great civilities shown us, and many 
advances made on the part of the Throcks, we visit them. 
That we visit also at Gayhurst ; that we have frequently 
taken airings with my cousin in her carriage ; and that I 



LETTERS FROM OLNEY. 163 

have sometimes taken a walk with her on a Sunday evening, 
and sometimes by myself, which, however, your mother 
has never done. These are the only novelties in our 
practice ; and if by these procedures, so inoffensive in 
themselves, we yet give offence, offence must needs be 
given. God and our own consciences acquit us, and we 
acknowledge no other judges. 

The two families with whom we have picked up this 
astonishing intercourse are as harmless in their conversa- 
tion and manners as can be found anywhere. And as to 
my poor cousin, the only crime that she is guilty of against 
the people of Olney is, that she has fed the hungry, clothed 
the naked, and administered comfort to the sick ; except 
indeed that, by her great kindness, she has given us a 
little lift in point of condition and circumstances, and has 
thereby excited envy in some who have not the knack of 
rejoicing in the prosperity of others. And this I take to 
be the root of the matter. 

My dear William, I do not know that I should have 
teased your nerves and spirits with this disagreeable theme 
had not Mr. Newton talked of appljring to you for parti- 
culars. He would have done it, he says, when he saw 
you last, but had not time. You are now qualified to 
inform him as minutely as we ourselves could of all our 
enormities. Adieu ! 

Our sincerest love to yourself and yours, Wm. C. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 

1 786- 1 793. 

TO LADY HESKETH, 

Weston Lodge, November^, 1786. 

It is my birthday, my beloved cousin, and I determine 
to employ a part of it, that it may not be destitute of 
festivity, in writing to you. The dark, thick fog that 
has obscured it would have been a burden to me at Olney, 
but here I have hardly attended to it. The neatness and 
snugness of our abode compensate all the dreariness of 
the season, and whether the ways are wet or dry, our 
house at least is always warm and commodious. O for 
you, my cousin, to partake these comforts with us ! I 
will not begin already to tease you upon that subject, but 
Mrs. Unwin remembers to have heard from your own lips 
that you hate London in the spring. Perhaps, therefore, 
by that time you may be glad to escape from a scene 
which will be every day growing more disagreeable, that 
you may enjoy the comforts of the Lodge. You well 
know that the best house has a desolate appearance un- 
furnished. This house accordingly, since it has been 
occupied by us and our vieubUs, is as much superior to 
what it was when you saw it, as you can imagine. The 
parlour is even elegant. When I say that the parlour is 
elegant, I do not mean to insinuate that the study is not 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 65 

SO. It is neat, warm, and silent, and a much better 
study than I deserve if I do not produce in it an incom- 
parable translation of Homer. I think every day of those 
lines of Milton, and congratulate myself on having obtained 
before I am quite superannuated what he seems not to 
have hoped for sooner : 

" And may at length my weaty age 
Find out the peaceful hermitage." 

For if it is not a hermitage, at least it is a much better 
thing ; and you must always understand, my dear, that 
when poets talk of cottages, hermitages, and such like 
things, they mean a house with six sashes in front, two 
comfortable parlours, a smart staircase, and three bed- 
chambers of convenient dimensions; in short, exactly 
such a house as this. 

The Throckmortons continue the most obliging neigh- 
bours in the world. One morning last week they both 
went with me to the Cliff— a scene, my dear, in which 
you would delight beyond measure, but which you cannot 
visit except in the spring or autumn. The heat of summer 
and the clinging dirt of winter would destroy you. What 
is called the Cliff is no cliff, nor at all like one, but a 
beautiful terrace, sloping gently down to the Ouse, and 
from the brow of which, though not lofty, you have a 
view of such a valley as makes that which you see from 
the hills near Olney, and which I have had the honour to 
celebrate, an affair of no consideration. 

Wintry as the weather is, do not suspect that it confines 
me. I ramble daily, and every day change my ramble. 
Wherever I go I find short grass under my feet, and when 
I have travelled perhaps five miles, come home with shoes 
not at all too dirty for a drawing-room. I was pacing 
yesterday under the elms that surround the field in which 
stands the great alcove, when, lifting my eyes, I saw two 
black genteel figures bolt through a hedge *mlo >i!ti.e ^^!Cj\ 



1 66 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

where I was walking. You guess already who they were, 
and that they could be nobody but our neighbours. They 
had seen me from a hill at a distance, and had traversed 
a great turnip -field to get to me. You see, therefore, my 
dear, that I am in some request. Alas ! in too much 
request with some people. The verses of Cadwallader 
have found me at last. 

I am charmed with your account of our little cousin ^ at 
Kensington. If the world does not spoil him hereafter, 
he will be a valuable man. — Good -night, and may God 
bless thee 1 W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

The Lodge, December 4, 1786. 

I SENT you, my dear, a melancholy letter, and I do not 
know that I shall now send you one very unlike it. Not 
that anything occurs in consequence of our late loss more 
afflictive than was to be expected, but the mind does not 
perfectly recover its tone after a shock like that which has 
been felt so lately. This I observe, that though my experi- 
ence has long since taught me that this world is a world 
of shadows, and that it is the more prudent as well as the 
more Christian course to possess the comforts that we find 
in it as if we possessed them not, it is no easy matter to 
reduce this doctrine into practice. We forget that that 
God who gave them may, when he pleases, take them 
away ; and that perhaps it may please him to take them 
at a time when we least expect or are least disposed to 
part firom them. Thus it has happened in the present 
case. There never was a moment in Unwin's life when 
there seemed to be more urgent want of him than the 
moment in which he died. He had attained to an age 

1 Lord Cowper. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 67 

when, if they are at any time useful, men become more 
useful to their families, their friends, and the world. His 
parish began to feel, and to be sensible of, the advantages 
of his ministry. The clergy around him were many of 
them awed by his example. His children were thriving 
under his own tuition and management, and his eldest boy 
is likely to feel his loss severely, being by his years in some 
respect qualified to understand the value of such a parent ; 
by his literary proficiency too clever for a schoolboy, and 
too young at the same time for the university. The 
removal of a man in the prime of life, of such a character, 
and with such connexions, seems to make a void in society 
that can never be filled. God seemed to have made him 
just what he was that he might be a blessing 4o others, 
and when the influence of his character and abilities began 
to be felt, removed him. These are mysteries, my dear, 
that we cannot contemplate without astonishment, but 
which will nevertheless be explained hereafter, and must 
in the meantime be revered in silence. It is well for his 
mother that she has spent her life in the practice of an 
habitual acquiescence in the dispensations of Providence^ 
else I know that this stroke would have been heavier, after 
all that she has suffered upon another account, than she 
could have borne. She derives, as she well may, great 
consolation firom the thought that he lived the life and 
died the death of a Christian. The consequence is, if 
possible, more unavoidable than the most mathematical 
conclusion, that therefore he is happy. So farewell, my 
friend Unwin 1 The first man for whom I conceived a 
friendship after my removal from St. Albans, and for 
whom I cannot but still continue to feel a friendship 
though I shall see thee with these eyes no more. 

W. C. 



1 68 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

Wbston, December 9, 1786. 

My dear Friend — ^We had just begun to enjoy the 
pleasantness of our new situation, to find at least as much 
comfort in it as the season of the year would permit, when 
affliction found us out in our retreat, and the news reached 
us of the death of Mr. Unwin. He had taken a western 
tour with Mr. Henry Thornton, and, in his return, at 
Winchester was seized with a putrid fever, which sent 
him to his grave. He is gone to it, however, though 
young, as fit for it as age itself could have made him. 
Regretted, indeed, and always to be regretted by those 
who knew him, for he had everything that makes a man 
valuable both in his principles and in his manners, but 
leaving still this consolation to his surviving friends, that 
he was desirable in this world chiefly because he was so 
well prepared for a better. 

I find myself here situated exactly to my mind. Weston 
is one of the prettiest villages in England, and the walks 
about it at all seasons of the year delightful I know that 
you will rejoice with me in the change that we have made, 
and for which I am altogether indebted to Lady Hesketh. 
It is a change as great as (to compare metropolitan things 
with rural) from St. Giles* to Grosvenor Square. Our 
house is in all respects commodious, and in some degree 
elegant ; and I cannot give you a better idea of that which 
we have left than by telling you the present candidates for 
it are a publican and a shoemaker. W. C. 



TO LADY hesketh. 

The Lodge. December 11, 1786. 
Shenstone, my dearest cousin, in his commentary on 



LETl'ERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. .169 

the vulgar adage which says, Second thoughts are best, 
observes that the ^Aird thought generally resolves itself into 
ihe^rst. Thus it has happened to me. My first thought 
was to effect a transposition of the old glasses into the 
new frame ; my second, that perhaps both the old glasses 
and the new frame might be broken in the experiment ; 
and my third, nevertheless, to make the trial. Accord- 
ingly I walked down to Olney this day, referred the 
matter to the watchmaker's consideration, and he has 
succeeded in the attempt to a wonder. I am at this 
moment peering through the same medium as usual, but 
with the advantage of a more ornamental mounting. I 
conjecture, by the way, from a passage in your note that 
accompanied the parcel, that I am indebted not onfy to 
you for this new accession to my elegant accommodations, 
but to some kind Incognito likewise ; I beg that you 
will present my thanks accordingly. The clerk of the 
parish has made me a new pair of straps to my buckles ; 
and the gingerbread, by its genial warmth, has delivered 
me since dinner from a distention of stomach that was 
immoderately troublesome, so that I am the better for 
you, my dear, from head to foot. Long time I in vain 
endeavoured to make myself master of the lamp, and was 
obliged at last to call in William to my assistance. 
Now there are certain things which great geniuses miss, 
and which men bom without any understanding at all hit 
immediately. In justification of the truth of this remark, 
William, who is a lump of dough, who never can be 
more dead than he is till he has been buried a month, 
explained it to me in a moment ; accordingly we have 
used it twice to my great satisfaction. 

I sent Fuseli a hare by the coach that went up this 
morning, and certainly no man could better deserve it, 
though it was one of the largest that ever was seen. I 
could not resist the impulse that I felt to acknowledge^ \3k^ 



I70 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

obligations to his critical exertions; and yet shall be 
sorry that I complied with it, if in consequence of my 
civility he should become at all less rigorous in his de- 
mands, or less severe in his animadversions. I am on 
the point of finishing the correction of the ninth book, 
which I have now adjusted to two sheets filled with his 
strictures. He observes at the close of them, that to exe- 
cute a translation of this book in particular, with felicity, 
appears to him a prodigious task. He considers it, and 
I think justly, as one of the most consummate efforts of 
genius, handed down to us from antiquity, and calls upon 
me for my utmost exertions. I have not failed to make 
them, with what success will be seen hereafter; but of 
this I am sure, that I have much improved it. The 
good-natured Padre of the Hall has offered me, in Mrs. 
Throckmorton's absence, his transcribing assistance, of 
which I shall avail myself, and deliver over to him the 
book in question in a day or two. 

Mr. Chester paid me a morning visit about the middle 
of last week. He was, though a man naturally reserved, 
chatty and good-humoured on the occasion, and when he 
took leave begged that I would not put myself to incon- 
venience for the sake of returning his visit with a punctilious 
alacrity in this wet and dirty season ; an allowance for 
which I was much obliged to him, for since we now live 
five miles asunder, and I never ride, it does not at present 
occur to me by what means I could possibly get at him. 

Our old house is not yet tenanted, but there are can- 
didates for it. They are two who would divide the 
building between them, a shoemaker and the alemonger 
at the Horse and Groom. The carpenter in the mean- 
time has assured Mr. Smith, the -landlord, that unless it 
be well propped, and speedily, it will infallibly fall. 
Thank you, my dear, for saving our poor noddles from 
such imminent danger. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 171 

I learned to-day, at the ** Bull," that the liquors which 
the General has sent me I may expect to see here to- 
morrow : there are four hampers of sherry, and one of 
brandy and rum. The looking-glass which you destined 
to the study, — that, I mean, which came out of your 
chamber at the vicarage, — ^we have ventured to put up in 
the parlour. It is quite large enough, and makes a very 
smart appearance. The other, which you may remember 
to have seen in my chamber at Olney, we have trans- 
ferred to Nibbs, who, being paid for the new frame, is 
to furnish us with a new glass for it. 

What course have you taken with our friend Amott ? 
Has Lord Cowper discovered any intentions to perform 
the part of a Mecaenas toward me, or did he leave England 
forgetful that there was so important a character in it as 
myself? His little boy, I hope, has recovered. It would 
grieve me if the family should lose so much generosity as 
seems to be included in that small bosom. 

The cloud that I mentioned to you, my cousin, has 
passed away, or perhaps the skirts of it may still hang 
over me. I feel myself, however, tolerably brisk, and 
tell you so because I know you will be glad to hear it. 
The grinners at "John Gilpin" little dream what the 
author suffers sometimes. — How I hated myself yesterday 
for having wrote it 1 May God bless thee, my dear. 
Adieu ! — Ever yours, W. C. 

Soon after this reaches you we hope that you will re- 
ceive a turkey. It was Mrs. Throckmorton's legacy to 
us when she went. It never had the honour to be 
crammed, for she crams none, but perhaps may not be 
the worse in flavour on that account. She fed it daily 
with her own hand. 



172 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE SAME. 

Weston, December 21, 1786. 

Your welcome letter, my beloved cousin, which ought 
by the date to have arrived on Sunday, being by some 
untoward accident delayed, came not till yesterday. It 
came, however, and has relieved me from a thousand 
distressing apprehensions on your account. 

The dew of your intelligence has refreshed my poetical 
laurels. A little praise now and then is very good for 
your hard-working poet, who is apt to grow languid and 
perhaps careless without it. Praise, I find, affects us as 
money does. The more a man gets of it, with the more 
vigilance he watches over and preserves it. Such, at 
least is its effect on me, and you may assure yourself that 
I will never lose a mite of it for want of care. 

I have already invited the good Padre in general terms, 
and he shall positively dine here next week, whether he 
will or not. I do not at all suspect that his kindness to 
Protestants has an)rthing insidious in it, any more than 
I suspect that he transcribes Homer for me with a view 
for my conversion. He would find me a tough piece of 
business I can tell him ; for when I had no religion at 
all, I had yet a terrible dread of the Pope. How much 
more now 1 

I should have sent you a longer letter, but was obliged 
to devote my last evening to the melancholy emplo)mient 
of composing a Latin inscription for the tombstone of 
poor William, two copies of which I wrote out and en- 
closed, one to Henry Thornton, and one to Mr. Newton. 
Homer stands by me biting his thumbs, and swears that 
if I do not leave off directly, he will choke me with bristly 
Greek, that shall stick in my throat for ever. 

W. C. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 73 



TO THE SAME. 

The Lodge, December 24, 1786. 

You must by no means, my dearest Coz, pursue the plan 
that has suggested itself to you on the supposed loss of 
your letter. In the first place, I choose that my Sundays, 
like the Sundays of other people, shall be distinguished 
by something that shall make me look forward to them 
with agreeable expectation, and for that reason desire that 
they may always bring me a letter from you. In the next 
place, if I know when to expect a letter, I know likewise 
when to inquire after a letter if it happens not to come ; a 
circumstance of some importance considering how exces- 
sively careless they are at the " Swan," where letters are 
sometimes overlooked, and do not arrive at their destina- 
tion, if no inquiry be made, till some days have passed 
after their arrival at Olney. It has happened frequently 
to me to receive a letter long after all the rest have been 
delivered, and the Padre assured me that Mr. Throck- 
morton has sent notes three several times to Mrs. Marriott 
complaining of this neglect. For these reasons, my dear, 
thou must write still on Saturdays, and as often on other 
days as thou pleasest. 

The screens came safe, and one of them is at this moment 
interposed between me and the fire, much to the comfort 
of my peepers. The other of them being fitted up with a 
screw that was useless, I have consigned to proper hands, 
that it may be made as serviceable as its brother. They 
are very neat, and I account them a great acquisition. 
Our carpenter assures me that the lameness of the chairs 
was not owing to any injury received in their journey, but 
that the maker never properly finished them. They were 
not high when they came, and in order to reduce them to 
a level we have lowered them an inch. Thou knowest. 



174 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

child, that the short foot could not be lengthened, for 
which reason we shortened the long ones. The box con- 
taining the plate and the brooms reached us yesterday, 
and nothing had suffered the least damages by the way. 
Everything is smart, and everything is elegant, and we 
admire them all. The short candlesticks are short enough. 
I am now writing with those upon the table ; Mrs. U. is 
reading opposite, and they suit us both exactly. With 
the money that you have in hand you may purchase, my 
dear, at your most convenient time, a tea-urn ; that which 
we have at present having never been handsome, and 
being now old and patched. A parson once, as he walked 
across the parlour, pushed it down with his belly, and it 
never perfectly recovered itself. We want likewise a tea- 
waiter, meaning, if you please, such a one as you may 
remember to have seen at the Hall — a wooden one. To 
which you may add, from the same fund, three or four 
yards of yard -wide muslin, wherewithal to make neckcloths 
for my worship. If after all these disbursements anything 
should be left in the bottom of the purse, we shall be 
obliged to you if you will expend it in the purchase of 
silk pocket-handkerchiefs. There, my precious, I think 
I have charged thee with commissions in plenty. 

You neither must nor shall deny us the pleasure of 
sending to you such small matters as we do. As to the 
partridges, you may recollect possibly, when I remind you 
of it, that I never eat them, and Mrs. Unwin rejoiced in 
receiving them only because she could pack them away to 
you ; therefore never lay us under any embargoes of this 
kind, for I tell you beforehand that we are both incorrigible. 
My beloved cousin, the first thing I open my eyes upon 
in a morning, is it not the bed in which you have laid me ? 
Did you not in our old dismal parlour at Olney give me 
the tea on which I breakfast, the chocolate that I drink 
at noon, and the table at which I dine ? the everything, 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 75 

in short, that I possess in the shape of convenience, is it 
not all from you ? and is it possible, think you, that we 
should either of us overlook an opportunity of making 
such a tiny acknowledgment of your kindness ? Assure 
yourself that never, while my name is Giles Gingerbread, 
will J dishonour my glorious ancestry, and my illustrious 
appellation, by so unworthy a conduct. I love you at my 
heart, and so does Mrs. U., and we must say thank you, 
and send you a peppercorn when we can. So thank you, 
my dear, for the brawn and the chine, and for all the 
good things you announce, and at present I will, for your 
sake, say no more of thanksgiving. 

I have answered the Welshman's letter, and have a 
hope that I shall hear no more of him. He desired my 
advice whether to publish or not. In answer I congratu- 
lated him on the possession of a poetical talent with which 
he might always amuse himself when fatigued with the 
weightier matters of the law. As to publication, I recom- 
mended it to him by all means as the principal incentive 
to exertion. And with regard to his probability of success, 
I told him that as he had, I understood, already made the 
experiment by appearing in print, he could judge how that 
matter stood better than I or any man could do it for him. 
What could I say, my dear ? I was really unwilling to 
mortify a brother bard, and yet could not avoid it but at 
the expense of common honesty. 

The Padre is to dine with us on Thursday next. I am 
highly pleased with him, and intend to make all possible 
advances to a nearer acquaintance. Why he is so silent 
in company I know not. Perhaps he is reserved like some 
other people ; or perhaps he holds it unsuitable to his 
function to be forward in mixed conversation. Certain it 
is, that he has enough to say when he and I are together. 
He has transcribed the ninth book for me, and is now 
transcribing the twelfth, which Mrs. Throckmorton left 



176 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

unfinished. Poor Teedon has dined with us once, and it 
did me good to stuff him. 

We have heard from the poor widow after whom you 
so kindly inquire. She answered a letter of Mrs. Unwin*s 
about a week since. Her answer was affectionate, tender, 
and melancholy to a great d^;ree, but not without expres- 
sions of hope and confidence in God. We understand that 
she has suffered much in her health, as well as in her mind. 
It could not be otherwise, for she was attached to her 
husband in the extreme. We have learned by a side-wind 
since I mentioned her last, that Billy left everything, or 
almost everything, to the children. But she has at present 
one hundred pounds a year, and will have another hundred 
hereafter, if she outlives Mrs. U., being jointured in her 
estate. In the meantime her sister lives with her, who 
has, I believe, determined never to marry, from which 
circumstance she must doubtless derive advantage. She 
spent some time at Clapham after her return from Win- 
chester, is now with Mr. John Unwin at Croydon, and 
goes soon to her gloomy mansion, as she calls it, in Essex. 
We asked her hither, in hope that a little time spent at 
Weston might be of use to her ; but her affairs would not 
suffer her to come. She is greatly to be pitied, and 
whether she will ever recover the stroke is, I think, very 
uncertain. 

I had some time since a very clever letter firom Henry 
C, which I answered as well as I could, but not in kind. 
I seem to myself immoderately stupid on epistolary occa- 
sions, and especially when I wish to shine. Such I seem 
now, and such to have been ever since I began. So much 
the worse for you. Pray, my dear, send me a bit of 
Indian glue, and an almanack. 

It gives me true pleasure to learn that the (General at 
least says he is better ; but it would give me much more 
to hear others say the same. Thank your sister for her 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 77 

instructions concerning the lamp, which shall be exactly 
followed. — I am, my dearest, your most Gingerbread 
Giles, etc. Wm. Cowper. 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

Weston, July 24, 1787. 

Dear Sir — This is the first time I have written these 
six months, and nothing but the constraint of obligation 
could induce me to write now. I cannot be so wanting 
to myself as not to endeavour, at least, to thank you 
both for the visits with which you have favoured me, and 
the poems that you sent me. In my present state of 
mind I taste nothing ; nevertheless I read, partly from 
habit, and partly because it is the only thing that I am 
capable of. 

I have therefore read Bums's PoemSy and have read 
them twice ; and, though they be written in a language 
that is new to me, and many of them on subjects much 
inferior to the author's ability, I think them, on the 
whole, a very extraordinary production. He is, I believe, 
the only poet these kingdoms have produced in the lower 
rank of life, since Shakspeare (I should rather say since 
Prior), who need not be indebted for any part of his 
praise to a charitable consideration of his origin, and the 
disadvantages under which he has laboured. It will be a 
pity if he should not hereafter divest himself of barbarism, 
and content himself with writing pure English, in which 
he appears perfectly qualified to excel. He who can 
command admiration dishonours himself if he aims no 
higher than to raise a laugh. — I am, dear sir, with my 
best wishes for your prosperity, and with Mrs. Unwin's 
respects, your obliged and affectionate humble servant, . 

W. C. 

N 



178 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

The Lodge, September 15, 1787. 

My DEAREST Cousin — On Monday last I was invited 
to meet your friend Miss Jekyll at the Hall, and there we 
found her. Her good -nature, her humorous manner, 
and her good sense, are charming ; insomuch that even 
I, who was never much addicted to speech-making, and 
who at present find myself particularly indisposed to it, 
could not help saying at parting, — **I am glad that I 
have seen you, and sorry that I have seen so little of 
you. " We were sometimes many in company ; on Thurs- 
day we were fifteen, but we had not altogether so much 
vivacity and cleverness as Miss Jekyll, whose talent at 
mirth-making has this rare property to recommend it, 
that nobody suffers by it. 

I am making a gravel walk for winter use, under a 
warm hedge in the orchard. It shall be furnished with 
a low seat for your accommodation, and if you do but 
like it, I shall be satisfied. In wet weather, or rather after 
wet weather, when the street is dirty, it will suit you well, 
for, l3dng on an easy declivity through its whole length, it 
must of course be immediately dry. 

You are very much wished for by our friends at the 
Hall — ^how much by me I will not tell you till the second 
week in October. — Yours, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 



The Lodge, October 5, 1787, 
My DEAREST Cousin — My uncle's recommendation 
of my handwriting was the more agreeable to me as I 
have seldom received any on that subject. I write gener- 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 79 

ally in the helter-skelter way, concerning myself about 
nothing more than to be legible. I am sorry for his 
deafness, which I hope, however, by this time, the doctor 
and the doctor's engine have removed. It is well if he 
is cheerful under that malady, which oppresses the spirits 
of most men more than any other disorder that is not 
accompanied with pain. We have but few senses, and 
can spare none of them without much inconvenience. 
But I know that when my uncle's spirits are good, they 
are proof against all oppression. 

Mrs. Throck has not written to me, and now will not. 
Mr. Gregson had a letter from one of them to-day, in 
which they send compliments to us, and tell us they will 
be at home on Tuesday. How should she find time to 
write to me, who has been visiting her brother, one of 
the gayest young men in the world, who is building a 
great house, and has one of the finest pieces of water in 
England, with thirty boats on it? I am sorry to hear 
that his youth and his riches tc^ether bid fair to ruin 
him, — that he is a prey to his neighbours, plaj^ deep, 
and consequently cannot be rich long. Excessive good- 
nature is a quality attended with so much danger to a 
young man, that, amiable as it is, one cannot help pitying 
the man that owns it. 

Mrs. Chester paid her first visit here last Saturday, a 
prelude, no doubt, to the visit that she intends to you. 
I was angry with her for her omission of a civility to 
which you are so highly entitled ; but, now that she dis- 
covers symptoms of repentance, feel myself inclined to 
pardon her. She is onepf those women, indeed, to whom 
one pardons everything the moment they appear, not 
handsome, but showing a gentleness in her countenance, 
voice, and manner, that speaks irresistibly in her favour. 

Your newspaper, for which I thank you, my cousin, 
pleases me more than any that I have seen lately. The 



l8o LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

pertness of the Herall is my detestation, yet I alwa3rs read 
it ; and why ? because it is a newspaper, and should 
therefore doubtless read it were it ten times more dis- 
gusting than it is. Fielding was the only man who ever 
attempted to be witty with success in a newspaper, 
and even he could not support it long. But he led 
the way in his Convent Garden Journal^ and a thousand 
blockheads have followed him. I am not pleased, how- 
ever, with that furious attack upon the poor Abb^ Mann. 
The zealous Protestant who makes it discovers too much 
of that spirit which he charges upon the Papists. The 
poor Abba's narrative was in a manner extorted from 
him ; and when I read it, instead of finding it insidious 
and hostile to the interests of the Church of England, I 
was foolish enough to think it discreet, modest, and 
temperate. The gentleman, therefore, has either more 
zeal, or a better nose at a plot, than I have. 

The bedstead, my dear, suffered nothing by the long 
delay and the bad lodging that it met with : it could not 
have looked better than it does had it arrived at the time 
intended. It lost a screw indeed ; but our neighbour, 
the tailor, happening to have an odd one of exactly the 
right size, supplied the deficiency. It will have its fur- 
niture to-morrow. 

Poor Teedon, whom I daresay you remember, has 
never missed calling here once, and generally twice a 
week since January last. The poor man has gratitude if 
he has not wit, and in the possession of that one good 
quality has a sufficient recommendation. I blame m)^elf 
often for finding him tiresome, but cannot help it. My 
only comfort is that I should be more weary of thousands 
who have all the cleverness that has been denied to 
Teedon. 

I have been reading Hanway*s Travels^ and of course 
"The History of Nadir Shah, alias Kouli Khan " — a hero I 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. l8l 

my dear, — and I am old enough to remember the time 
when he was accounted one. He built up pyramids of 
human heads, and had consequently many admirers. 
But he has found few, I imagine, in the world to which 
he is gone to give an account of his building. I have 
now just entered upon Baker's Chronicle^ having never 
seen it in my life till I found it in the Hall library. It 
is a book at which you and I should have laughed im- 
moderately some years ago. It is equally wise and 
foolish, which makes the most ridiculous mixture in the 
world. — With Mrs. U.'s affectionate respects, my dearest 
cousin, I am, ever yours, Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE SAME. 

The'Lodge, November 27, 1787. 
It is the part of wisdom, my dearest cousin, to sit down 
contented under the demands of necessity, because they 
are such. I am sensible that you cannot, in my uncle's 
present infirm state, and of which it is not possible to 
expect any considerable amendment, indulge either of us, 
or yourself, with a journey to Weston. Yourself I say, 
both because I know it will give you pleasure to see 
Causidice mi once more, especially in the comfortable 
abode where you have placed him, and because, after 
so long an imprisonment in London, you, who love the 
country, and have a taste for it, would, of course, be glad 
to return to it. For my own part, to me it is ever new, 
and though I have now been an inhabitant of this village 
a twelvemonth, and have during the half of that time been 
at liberty to expatiate, and to make discoveries, I am 
daily finding out fresh scenes and walks, which you would 
never be satisfied with enjoying — some of them are un- 
approachable by you either on foot or in your carriage. 



1 82 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Had you twenty toes — ^whereas, I suppose, you have but 
ten — you could not reach them ; and coach-wheels have 
never been seen there since the flood. Before it, indeed 
(as Burnet says that the earth was then perfectly free 
from all inequalities in its surface), they might have been 
seen there every day. We have other walks both upon 
hill-tops, and in valleys beneath, some of which, by the 
help of your carriage, and many of them without its help, 
would be al^a-ys at your command. 

On Monday morning last Sam brought me word that 
there was a man in the kitchen who desired to speak with 
me. I ordered him in. A plain, decent, elderly figure 
made its appearance, and being desired to sit, spoke as 
follows : ** Sir, I am clerk of the parish of All-Saints in 
Northampton ; brother of Mr. Cox the upholsterer. It 
is customary for the person in my ofi&ce to annex to a bill 
of mortality, which he publishes at Christmas, a copy of 
verses. You would do me a great favour, sir, if you would 
furnish me with one." To this I replied, " Mr. Cox, you 
have several men of genius in your town, why have you 
not applied to some of them ? There is a namesake of 
yours in particular, Cox, the statuary, who, everybody 
knows, is a first-rate maker of verses. He surely is the 
man of all the world for your purpose." — "Alasl sir, 
I have heretofore borrowed help from him, but he is a 
gentleman of so much reading, that the people of our 
town cannot understand him." I confess to you, my 
dear, I felt all the force of the compliment implied in this 
speech, and was almost ready to answer, Perhaps, my 
good friend, they may find me unintelligible too for the 
same reason. But on asking him whether he had walked 
over to Weston on purpose to implore the assistance of 
my muse, and on his replying in the affirmative, I felt 
my mortified vanity a little consoled, and pitpng the 
poor man's distress, which appeared to.be considerable. 



I 

LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 83 

promised to supply him. The waggon accordingly has 
gone this day to Northampton loaded in part with my 
effusions in the mortuary style. A" fig for poets who 
write epitaphs upon individuals I I have written one that 
serves two hundred persons. 

A few days since I received a second very obliging letter 
from Mr. Mackenzie. He tells me that his own papers, 
which are by far, he is sorry to say it, the most numerous, 
are marked V. I. Z. Accordingly, my dear, I am happy 
to find that I am engaged in a correspondence with Mr. 
Viz, a gentleman for whom I have always entertained the 
profoundest veneration. But the serious fact is, that the 
papers distinguished by those signatures have ever pleased 
me most, and struck me as the work of a sensible man, 
who knows the world well, and has more of Addison's 
delicate humour than anybody. 

A poor man begged food at the Hall lately. The cook 
gave him some vermicelli soup. He ladled it about some 
time with the spoon, and then returned it to her sa3ring, 
" I am a poor man, it is true, and I am very hungry ; 
but yet I cannot eat broth with maggots in it. " Once 
more, my dear, a thousand thanks for your box full of 
good things, useful things, and beautiful things. — ^Yours 
ever, W. C. 

TO THE REV. WALTER BAGOT. 

Weston, December 6^ 1787. 
My dear Friend — A short time since, by the help of 
Mrs. Throckmorton's chaise, Mrs. Unwin and I reached 
Chicheley. "Now," said I to Mrs. Chester, "I shall 
write boldly to your brother Walter, and will do it im- 
mediately. I have passed the gulf that parted us, and he 
will be glad to hear it." But let not the man who trans- 
lates Homer be so presumptuous as to have a will of his 



1 84 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

own, or to promise anything. A fortnight has, I sup- 
pose, elapsed since I paid this visit, and I am only now 
beginning to fulfil what I then undertook to accomplish 
without delay. The old Grecian must answer for it. 

I spent my morning there so agreeably that I have 
ever since regretted more sensibly that there are five 
miles of a dirty country interposed between us. For the 
increase of my pleasure, I had the good fortune to find 
your brother the Bishop there. We had much talk about 
many things, but most, I believe, about Homer ; and 
great satisfaction it gave me to find, that on the most im- 
portant points of that subject his Lordship and I were 
exactly of one mind. In the course of our conversation 
he produced from his pocket-book a translation of the 
first ten or twelve lines of the Ilicd^ and in order to 
leave my judgment firee, imformed me kindly at the same 
time that they were, not his own. I read them, and, 
according to the best of my recollection of the original, 
found them well executed. The Bishop, indeed, ac- 
knowleged that they were not faultless ; neither did I find 
them so. Had they been such, I should have felt their 
perfection as a discouragement hardly to be surmounted ; 
for at that passage I have laboured more abundantly 
than at any other, and hitherto with the least success. 
I am convinced that Homer placed it at the threshold of 
his work as a scarecrow to all translators. Now, Walter, 
if thou knowest the author of this version, and it be not 
treason against thy brother's confidence in thy secrecy, 
declare him to me. Had I been so happy as to have 
seen the Bishop again before he left this country^ I 
should certainly have asked him the question, having 
a curiosity upon the matter that is extremely trouble- 
some. 

The awkward situation in which you found yourself 
on receiving a visit from an authoress, whose works, 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 85 

though presented to you long before, you had never read, 
made me laugh, and it was no sin against my friendship 
for you to do so. It was a ridiculous distress, and I can 
laugh at it even now. I hope she catechised you well. 
How did you extricate yourself? — Now laugh at me. 
The clerk of the parish of All-Saints, in the town of 
Northampton, having occasion for a poet, has appointed 
me to the office. I found m)rself obliged to comply. 
The bellman comes next, and then, I think, though even 
borne upon your swan's quill, I can soar no higher ! — I 
am, my dear friend, faithfully yours, W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

The Lodge, December 10, 1787. 

I THANK you for the snip of cloth, commonly called 
a pattern. At present I have two coats, and but one 
back. If at any time hereafter I should find myself 
possessed of fewer coats, or more backs, it will be of 
use- to me. 

Even as you suspect, my dear, so it proved. The ball 
was prepared for, the ball was held, and the ball passed, 
and we had nothing to do with it. Mrs. Throckmorton, 
knowing our trim, did not give us the pain of an invita- 
tion, for a pain it would have been. And why? as 
Stemhold says — Because, as Hopkins answers, we must 
have refused it. But it fell out singularly enough that 
this ball was held, of all the da3rs in the year, on my 
birthday — and so I told them — but not till it was all 
over. 

Though I have thought proper never to take any notice 
of the arrival of my MSS. together with the other good things 
in the box, yet certain it is, that I received them. I have 
furbished up the tenth book till it is as bright as silver, 



1 86 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and am now occupied in bestowing the same labour 
upon the eleventh. The twelth and thirteenth are in 

the hands of , and the fourteenth and fifteenth are 

ready to succeed them. This notable job is the delight 
of my heart, and how sorry shall I be when it is ended. 

The smith and the carpenter, my dear, are both in the 
room, hanging a bell ; if I therefore make a thousand 
blunders, let the said intruders answer for them all. 

I thank you, my dear, for your history of the G s. 

What changes in that family 1 And how many thousand 
families have in the same time experienced changes as 
violent as theirs I The course of a rapid river is the 
justest of all emblems, to express the variableness of our 
scene below. Shakespeare says none ever bathed himself 
twice in the same stream, and^ is equally true that the 
world upon which we close our eyesrat night is never the 
same with that on which we open them in the morning/ 

I do not always say, give my love to my uncle, because 
he knows that I always love him. I do not always 
present Mrs. Unwin*s love to you, partly for the same 
reason — Deuce take the smith and the carpenter I — and 
partly because I forget it. But to present my own I for- 
get never, for I always have to finish my letter, which I 
know not how to do, my dearest Coz, without telling you 
that I am ever yours, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

December 19, 1787. 
Saturday, my dearest cousin, was a day of receipts. 
In the morning I received a box filled with an abundant 
variety of stationery ware, containing, in particular, a 
quantity of paper sufficient, well-covered with good writ- 
ing, to immortalise any man. I have nothing to do there- 



LETTERS FkOM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 87 

fore but to cover it as aforesaid, arid my name will never 
die. In the evening I received a smaller box, but still 
more welcome on account of its contents. It contained 
an almanac in red morocco, a pencil of a new invention, 
called an everlasting pencil, and a noble purse, with a 
noble gift in it, called a bank-note for twenty-five pounds. 
I need use no arguments to assure you, my cousin, that 
by the help of ditto note, we shall be able to fadge very 
comfortably till Christmas is turned, without having the 
least occasion to draw upon you. By the post yesterday 
— that is, Sunday morning — I received also a letter from 
Anonymous giving me advice of the kind present which 
I have just particularised, in which letter allusion is made 
to a certain piece by me composed, entitled, I believe, 
"A drop of Ink." The only copy I ever gave of that 
piece I gave to yourself. It is possible therefore that 
between you and Anonymous there may be some com- 
munication. If that should be the case, I will beg you 
just to signify to him, as opportunity may occur, the safe 
arrival of his most acceptable present, and my most 
grateful sense of it. 

My toothache is in a great measure, that is to say, 
almost entirely removed : not by snipping my ears, as 
poor Lady Strangers ears were snipped, nor by any other 
chirurgical operation, except such as I could perform my- 
self. The manner of it was as follows : We dined last 
Thursday at the Hall; I sat down to table, trembling 
lest the tooth, of which I told you in my last, should not 
only refuse its own office, but hinder all the rest. Ac- 
cordingly, in less than five minutes, by a hideous disloca- 
tion of it, I found myself not only in great pain, but 
under an absolute prohibition not only to eat, but to speak 
another word. Great emergencies sometimes meet the 
most effectual remedies. I resolved, if it were possible, 
then and there to draw it. This I effected so dexterously 



1 88 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

by a sudden twitch, and afterwards so dexterously con- 
veyed it into my pocket, that no creature present, not 
even Mrs. Unwin, who sat facing me, was sensible either 
of my distress, or of the manner of my deliverance from 
it. I am poorer by one tooth than I was, but richer by 
the unimpeded use of all the rest. 

When I lived in the Temple I was rather intimate 
with the son of the late Admiral Rowley and a younger 
brother of the present Admiral. Since I wrote to you last 
I received a letter from him, in a very friendly and aflfec- 
tionate style. It accompanied half a dozen books, which 
I had lent him five-and-twenty years ago, and which he 
apologised for having kept so long, telling me that they 
had been sent to him at Dublin by mistake; for at 
Dublin, it seems, he now resides. Reading my poems, 
he felt, he said, his friendship for me revive, and wrote 
accordingly. I have now, therefore, a correspondent in 
Ireland, another in Scotland, and a third in Wales. All 
this would be very diverting had I a little more time to 
spare them. 

My dog, my dear, is a spaniel. Till Miss Gunning 
begged him, he was the property of a farmer, and while 
he was their property had been accustomed to lie in the 
chimney comer, among the embers, till the hair was 
singed from his back, and till nothing was left of his 
tail but the gristle. Allowing for these disadvantages, 
he is really handsome ; and when nature shall have 
furnished him with a new coat, — a gift which, in consider- 
ation of the ragged condition of his old one, it is hoped 
she will not long delay, — he will then be unrivalled in 
personal endowments by any dog in this country. He 
and my cat are excessively fond of each other, and play a 
thousand gambols together that it is impossible not to 
admire. 

Know thou that from this time forth, the post comes 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 89 

daily to Weston. This improvement is effected by an 
annual subscription of ten shillings. The Throcks invited 
us to the measure, and we have acceded to it. Their 
servant will manage this concern for us at the Olney 
post-office, and the subscription is to pay a man for 
stumping three times a week from Olney to Newport 
Pagnel, and back again. 

Returning from my walk to-day, while I was passing 
by some small closes at the back of the town, I heard 
the voices of some persons extremely merry at the top of 
the hill. Advancing into the large field behind our house, 
I there met Mr. Throck, wife, and brother George. Com- 
bine in your imagination as large proportions as you can 
of earth and water intermingled so as to constitute what 
is commonly called mud, and you will have but an im- 
perfect conception of the quantity that had attached itself 
to her petticoats ; but she had half-boots, and laughed at 
her own figure. She told me that she had this morning 
transcribed sixteen pages of my Homer. I observed in 
reply, that to write so much, and to gather all that dirt, 
was no bad morning's work, considering the shortness 
of the days at this season. — Yours, my dear, W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

The Lodge, February 7, 1788. 
My dearest Cousin— Thanks beforehand for the 
books which you give me to expect. They will all be 
welcome. Of the two editions of Shakspeare I prefer 
that which is printed in the largest t3rpe, independent 
of all other considerations. Don Quixote by any hand 
must needs be welcome, and by Smollett's especially, 
because I have never seen it. He had a drollery of his 
own, which, for aught I know, may suit an English taste 



I90 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

as well as that of Cervantes ; perhaps better, because to 
us somewhat more intelligible. 

It is pretty well known (the clerk took care it should be 
so), both at Northampton and in this county, who wrote 
the ** Mortuary Verses. " All that I know of their success 
is, that he sent a bundle of them to Maurice Smith at 
Olney, who sold them for threepence a piece, a high price 
for a Memento Mori, a commodity not generally in great 
request. The other small poem, addressed to Mrs. 
Throck, has given, as I understand, great satis&ction 
at Buckland. The old baronet and his lady, having 
heard that such a piece existed (Mrs. Bromley Chester, 
I suppose, must have been their informant), "wrote to 
desire a copy. A copy was sent, and they answered it 
with warm encomiums. 

Mr. Bull, the lame curate, having been lately preferred 
to a living, another was of course wanted to supply his 
place. By the recommendation of Mr. Romaine, a Mr. 

C came down. He lodges at Mr. Socket's in this 

village, and Mr. Socket lives in the small house to which 
you had once conceived a liking. Our lacquey is also clerk 

of the parish. C , a day or two after his arrival, had 

a corpse to bury at Weston. Having occasion to consult 
with the clerk concerning this matter, he sought him in 
our kitchen. Samuel entered the study to inform us that 
there was a clergjnnan without ; he was accordingly invited 
in, and in he came. We had but lately dined ; the wine 
was on the table, and he drank three glasses while the 
corpse in question was getting ready for its last journey. 
The moment he entered the room I felt m3rself incurably 
prejudiced against him ; his features, his figure, his address, 
and all that he uttered, confirmed that prejudice, and I 
determined, having once seen him, to see him no more. 
Two days after he overtook me in the village. " Your 
humble servant, Mr. Cowper ! a fine morning, sir, for a walk. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. IQI 

I had liked to have called on you yesterday morning to tell 
you that I had become your near neighbour. I live at 
Mr. Socket's." I answered, without looking at him, as 
drily as possible, "Are you come to stay any time in the 
country?*' He believed he was. "Which way," I 
replied, "are you going? to Olney?" "Yes." "I am 
going to Mr. Throckmorton's garden, and I wish you a 
good-day, sir. " I was in fact going to Olney m)rself, but 
this rencontre give me such a violent twist another way 
that I found it impossible to recover that direction, and 
accordingly there we parted. All this I related at the 
Hall the next time we dined there, describing also 
my apprehensions and distress lest, whether I would or 
not, I should be obliged to have intercourse with a man 
to me so perfectly disagreeable. A good deal of laugh 
and merriment ensued, and there for that time it ended. 
The following Sunday, in the evening, I received a note 
to this purport : ' * Mr. C 's compliments, " etc. Under- 
standing that my friends at the Hall were to dine with 
me the next day, he took the liberty to invite himself to 
eat a bit of mutton with me, being sure that I should be 
happy to introduce him. Having read the note, I threw 
it to Mrs. Unwin. " There," said I, "take that and read 
it ; then tell me if it be not an effort of impudence the 
most extraordinary you ever heard of. " I expected some 
such push from the man ; I knew he was equal to it. 
She read it, and we were both of a mind. I sat down to 
my desk, and with a good deal of emotion gave it just 
such an answer as it would have deserved had it been 
genuine. But having heard by accident in the morning 
that he spells his name with a C, and observing in the 
note that it was spelt with a K, a suspicion struck me that 
it was a fiction. I looked at it more attentively, and 
perceived that it was directed by Mrs. Throck. The 
inside I found afterwards was written by her brother 



192 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

George* This served us with another laugh on the subject, 

and I have hardly seen, and never spoken to Mr. C 

since. So, my dear, thafs the little story I promised you, 
Mr. Bull called here this morning ; from him I learn 

what follows concerning P . He waited on the Bishop 

of London, like a blundering ignoramus as he is, without 
his canonicals. The Bishop was highly displeased, as he 
had cause to be ; and, having pretty significantly given 
him to know it, addressed himself to his chaplain with 
tokens of equal displeasure, enjoining him never more to 
admit a clergyman to him in such attire. To pay this 
visit he made a journey from Clapham to town on horse- 
back. His horse he left at an inn on the Lambeth side of 
Westminster Bridge. Thence he proceeded to the Bishop's, 
and from the Bishop's to Mr. Scott. Having finished this 
last visit, he begged Mr. Scott's company to the inn where 
he had left his horse, which he said was at the foot of 
London Bridge. Thither they went, but neither the inn 

nor the horse were there. " Then, " sa3rs P , ** it must 

be at Blackfiriar's Bridge that I left it." Thither also they 
went, but to as little purpose. Luckily for him there was 
but one more bridge, and there they found it. To make 
the poor youth amends for all these misadventures, it so 
happened that the incumbent, his predecessor, died before 
the crops of last year were reaped. The whole profits of 

that year, by consequence, go into P 's pocket, which 

was never so stuffed before. 

Good-night, my dearest Coz. Mrs. Unwinds love attends 
you. — Affectionately yours, Wm. Cowper. 

TO THE SAME. 

The Lodge, March 3, 1788 
One day last week, Mrs. Unwin and I, having taken 
our morning walk, and returning homeward through the 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 93 

Wilderness, met the Throckmortons. A minute after we 
had met them we heard the cry of hounds at no great 
distance, and mounting the broad stump of an ehn 
which had been felled, and by the aid of which we were 
enabled to look over the wall, we saw them. They 
were all that time in our orchard ; presently we heard a 
terrier, belonging to Mrs. Throckmorton, which you may 
remember by the name of Fury, yelping with much 
vehemence, and saw her running through the thickets, 
within a few yards of us, at her utmost speed, as if in 
pursuit of something which we doubted not was the fox. 
Before we could reach the other end of the Wilderness 
the hounds entered also ; and when we arrived at the 
gate which opens into the grove, there we found the 
whole weary cavalcade assembled. The huntsman dis- 
mounting begged leave to follow his hounds on foot, for he 
was sure, he said, that they had killed him, — a conclusion 
which, I suppose, he drew from their profound silence. 
He was accordingly admitted, and with a sagacity that 
would not have dishonoured the best hound in the world, 
pursuing precisely the same track which the fox and the 
dogs had taken, though he had never had a glimpse of 
either after their first entrance through the rails, arrived 
where he found the slaughtered prey. He soon produced 
dead reynard, and rejoined us in the grove with all his 
dogs about him. Having an opportunity to see a cere- 
mony, which I was pretty sure would never fall in my 
way again, I determined to stay, and to notice all that 
passed with the most minute attention. The huntsman 
having by the aid of a pitchfork lodged reynard on the 
arm of an elm, at the height of about nine feet from the 
ground, there left him for a considerable time. The 
gentlemen sat on their horses contemplating the fox for 
which they had toiled so hard ; and the hounds assembled 
at the foot of the tree, with faces not less expressive of 

O 



194 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

the most rational delight, contemplated the same object. 
The huntsman remounted, cut oflF a foot, and threw it to 
the hounds — one of them swallowed it whole like a 
bolus. He then once more alighted, and drawing down 
the fox by the hinder l^s, desired the people, who 
were by this time rather numerous, to open a lane for 
him to the right and left. lie was instantly obeyed, 
when, throwing the fox to a distance of some yards and 
screaming like a fiend, '^ tear him to pieces " at least six 
times repeatedly, he consigned him over absolutely to 
the pack, who in a few minutes devoured him completely. 
Thus, my dear, as Virgil says, what none of the gods 
could have ventured to promise me, time itself, pursuing 
its accustomed course, has of its own accord presented 
me with. I have been in at the death of a fox, and you 
now know as much of the matter as I, who am as well 
informed as any sportsman in England. — ^Yours, 

W. C. 

TO THE SAME. 

The Lodge, /ufy 28, 1788. 

It is in vain that you tell me that you have no talent at 
description, while in fact you describe better than any- 
body. You have given me a most complete idea of your 
mansion and its situation; and I doubt not that with 
your letter in my hand by way of map, could I be set 
down on the spot in a moment, I should find myself 
qualified to take my walks and my pastime in whatever 
quarter of your paradise it should please me the most to 
visit. We also, as you know, have scenes at Weston 
worthy of description ; but because you know them well, 
I will only say that one of them has, within these few 
days, been much improved, — I mean the Lime Walk. 
By the help of the axe and the woodbill, which have of 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 95 

late been constantly employed in cutting out all straggling 
blanches that intercepted the arch, Mr. Throckmorton 
has now defined it with such exactness that no cathedral 
in the world can show one of more magnificence or 
beauty. I bless mjrself that I live so near it ; for were it 
distant several miles, it would be well worth while to 
visit it, merely as an object of taste ; not to mention 
the refreshment of such a gloom both to the eyes and 
spirits. And these are the things which our modem im- 
provers of parks and pleasure-grounds have displaced 
without mercy; because, forsooth, they are rectilinear. 
It is a wonder that they do not quarrel with the sunbeams 
for the same reason. 

Have you seen the account of five hundred celebrated 
authors now living ? I am one of them ; but stand charged 
with the high crime and misdemeanour of totally n^lecting 
method ; an accusation which, if the gentleman would 
take the pains to read me, he would find sufficiently 
refuted. I am conscious at least myself of having laboured 
much in the arrangement of my matter, and of having 
given to the several parts of every book of the Task, as 
well as to each poem in the first volume, that sort of 
slight connexion which poetry demands; for in poetry 
(except professedly of the didactic kind) a l(^cal pre- 
cision would be stiff, pedantic, and ridiculous. But there 
is no pleasing some critics ; the comfort is, that I am 
contented, whether they be pleased or not. At the same 
time, to my honour be it spoken, the chronicler of us 
five hundred prodigies bestows on me, for aught I know, 
more commendations than on any other of my confirater- 
nity. May he hve to write the histories of as many 
thousand poets, and find me the very best among them ! 
Amen ! 

I join with you, my dearest Coz, in wishing that I owned 
the fee-simple of all the beautifiil scenes around you, but 



196 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

such emoluments were never designed for poets. Am I 
not happier than ever poet was, in having thee for my 
cousin, and in the expectation of thy arrival here when- 
ever Strawberry Hill shall lose thee ? — Ever thine, 

W. C. 



TO MRS. KING. 

Weston Underwood, August 28, 1788. 

My dear Madam — Should you discard me from the 
number of your correspondents, you would treat me as I 
seem to deserve, though I do not actually deserve it. I 
have lately been engaged with company at our house, 
who resided with us five weeks, and have had much of 
the rheumatism into the bargain. Not in my fingers, 
you will say ; — ^true. But you know as well as I, that 
pain, be it where it may, indisposes us to writing. 

You express some degree of wonder that I found you 
out to be sedentary, at least much a stayer within 
doors, without any sufficient data for my direction. Now, 
if I should guess your figure and stature with equal suc- 
cess, you will deem me not only a poet but a conjurer. 
Yet in fact I have no pretensions of that sort. I have 
only formed a picture of you in my own imagination," 
as we ever do of a person of whom we think much, 
though we have never seen that person. Your height I 
conceive to be about five feet five inches, which, though 
it would make a short man, is yet height enough for a 
woman. If you insist on an inch or two more, I have 
no objection. You are not very fat, but somewhat in- 
clined to be fat, and unless you allow yourself a little 
more air and exercise, will incur some danger of exceed- 
ing in your dimensions before you die. Let me, there- 
fore, once more recommend to you to walk a little more. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 97 

at least in your garden, and to amuse yourself occasionally 
with pulling up here and there a weed, for it will be an 
inconvenience to you to be much fatter than you are, at 
a time of life when your strei^h will be naturally on the 
decline. I have given you a fair complexion, a slight 
tinge of the rose in your cheeks, dark brown hair, and, 
if the fashion would give you leave to show it, an open 
and well-formed forehead. To all this I add a pair of 
eyes, not quite black but nearly approaching to that hue, 
and very animated. I have not absolutely determined on 
the shape of your nose, or the form of your mouth ; but 
should you tell me that I have in all other respects drawn 
a tolerable likeness, I have no doubt but I can describe 
them too. I assure you that though I have a great desire 
to read him, I have never seen Lavater, nor have availed 
mjTself in the least of any of his rules on this occasion. 
Ah, madam 1 if with all that sensibility of yours, which 
exposes you to so much sorrow, and necessarily must 
expose you to it, in a world Hke this, I have had the 
good fortune to make you smile, I have then painted, 
whether with a strong resemblance or with none at all, 
to very good purpose. 

I had intended to have sent you a little poem which 
I have lately finished, but have no room to transcribe it. 
You shall have it by another opportunity. Breakfast 
is on the table, and my time also fails as well as my 
piper. I rejoice that a cousin of yours found my volumes 
agreeable to him, for, being your cousin, I will be answer- 
able for his good taste and judgment. 

When I wrote last, I was in mourning for a dear and 
much-valued uncle, Ashley Cowper. He died at the 
age of eighty-six. My best respects attend Mr. King ; 
and I am, dear madam, most truly yours, W. C. 



198 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE SAME. 

Weston Underwood, October 11, 1788. 

My dear Madam — You are perfectly secure from all 
danger of being overwhelmed with presents from me. 
It is not much that a poet can possibly have it in his 
power to give. When he has presented his own works, 
he may be supposed to have exhausted all means of 
donation. They are his only superfluity. There was a 
time, but that time was before I commenced writer for 
the press, when I amused myself in a way somewhat 
similar to yours ; allowing, I mean, for the difference 
between masculine and feminine operations. The scissors 
and the needle are your chief implements ; mine were the 
chisel and the saw. In those days you might have been 
in some danger of too plentiful a return for your favours. 
Tables, such as they were, and joint-stools such as never 
were, might have travelled to Pertenhall in most conveni- 
ent abundance. But I have long since discontinued this 
practice, and many others which I found it necessary to 
adopt, that I might escape the worst of all evils, both in 
itself and in its consequences — an idle life. Many arts 
I have exercised with this view for which nature never 
designed me ; though among them were some in which I 
arrived at considerable proficiency by mere dint of the 
most heroic perseverance. There is not a squire in all 
this country who can boast of having made better squirrel- 
houses, hutches for rabbits, or bird-cages, than myself ; 
and in the article of cabbage-nets I had no superior. I 
even had the hardiness to take in hand the pencil, and 
studied a whole year the art of drawing. Many figures 
were the fruit of my labours, which had, at least, the 
merit of being unparalleled by any production either of art 
or nature. But before the year was ended I had oc- 



LEITERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 1 99 

casi6n to wonder at the progress that may be made, in 
despite of natural deficiency, by dint alone of practice ; 
for I actually produced three landscapes, which a lady 
thought worthy to be framed and glazed. I then judged 
it high time to exchange this occupation for another, lest, 
by any subsequent productions of inferior merit, I should 
forfeit the honour I had so fortunately acquired. But 
gardening was, of all emplo)rments, that in which I suc- 
ceeded best, though even in this I did not suddenly attain 
perfection. I began with lettuces and cauliflowers ; from 
them I proceeded to cucumbers ; next to melons. I 
then purchased an orange-tree, to which, in due time, I 
added two or three myrtles. These served rae day and 
night with employment during a whole severe winter. 
To defend them from the frost, in a situation that ex- 
posed them to its severity, cost me much ingenuity and 
much attendance. I contrived to give them a fire heat ; 
and have waded night after night through the" snow, 
with the bellows under my arm, just before going to bed, 
to give the latest possible puff to the embers, lest the 
frost should seize them before morning. Very minute 
beginnings have sometimes important consequences. 
From nursing two or three little evergreens I became 
ambitious of a greenhouse, and accordingly built one ; 
which, verse excepted, afforded me amusement for a 
longer time than any expedient of all the many to which 
I have fled for refuge from the misery of having nothing 
to do. When I left Olney for Weston I could no longer 
have a greenhouse of my own ; but in a neighbour's 
garden I find a better, of which the sole management is 
consigned to me. 

I had need take care, when I b^n a letter, that the 
subject with which I set off be of some importance ; for, 
before I can exhaust it, be it what it may, I have gener- 
ally filled my paper. But self is a subject inexhaustible. 



200 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

which is the reason, that though I have said little, and 
nothing, I am afraid, worth your hearing, I have only 
room to add that I am, my dear madam, most truly 
yours, W. C. 

Mrs. Unwin bids me present her best compliments, 
and say how much she shall be obliged to you for the 
receipt to make that most excellent cake which came 
hither in its native pan. There is no production of yours 
that will not be always most welcome at Weston. 



TO THE REV. WALTER BAGOT. 

Weston, October ya^ 1788. 

My dear Friend — The good fortune that you wished 
me I have actually enjoyed, having had an opportunity, 
by means of Lady Hesketh's carriage, to see your brother 
Howard at Chicheley. I had the pleasure of spending 
near an hour with him in the study, for the consequences 
of his unfortunate fall which he got in Norfolk did not 
permit him to join the ladies in the saloon. It gave 
me much concern that not having seen him so many 
years, I should at last find him with a broken bone. He 
was, however, otherwise in good health, and, as I told 
him, had suffered less in his looks by the lapse of time 
that has passed since we were all at school tc^ether than 
any of us. 

I was truly happy to be the instrument of bringing the 
Chesters and my cousin to an acquaintance. She and 
your sister would love each other more than people gener- 
ally do in this neighbourhood, could they often come 
together. • Another year perhaps may afford more frequent 
opportunities than they are likely to find in the present, 
which is now far spent, and threatens us with foul weather 
soon and dirty roads, which makes Chicheley unap- 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 201 

proachable by mortal wight who is subject to fear in a 
carriage.' Menelaus tells Telemachus that had Ulysses 
returned safe from Troy it was his intention to have 
built him a city and a house in Argos, that he and his 
people, transferring themselves hither from Ithaca, might 
have become his neighbours. Had I the thousands with 
which some people are favoured I would gladly build for 
the Chesters, not a city, which they would not want, but a 
house at least as good as that which Menelaus had de- 
signed for Ulysses, in the precincts of Weston Under- 
wood, their non-residence here being the only defect in 
the situation. But I ought to account myself in my 
present circumstances here, if not so happy as in that 
case I should be, at least as happy as a world which I do 
not hold, as the sa3dng is, in a string, is ever likely to 
make me. We are but one remove from brother and 
sister, and that distance has long since been absorbed by 
a more than sisterly affection. 

The Northampton clerk has been with me again, and 
I have again promised him my assistance. You may 
depend on my sending you a printed copy of this my 
second meditation upon churchyard subjects as soon as I 
have received the impression. It is likely, indeed, to be 
an annual remittance ; for said clerk will, I daresay, 
resort to me for poetical aid till either he or I shall want 
an epitaph for ourselves. I am not sorry to be em- 
ployed by him, considering the task, in respect of the 
occasion of it, as even more important than Iliad and 
Odyssey together. To put others in mind of their latler 
end is at least as proper an occupation for a man whose 
own latter end is nearer by almost sixty years than it once 
was, as to write about gods and heroes. Let me once 
get well out of these two long stories, and if I ever 
meddle with such mJ^tters more call me, as Fluellen 
says, a fool and an ass and a prating coxcomb. 



202 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

It gives me much pleasure to hear that Lord Ba^ot 
is so well, and I sincerely wish that he may find the 
Naiads of Buxton as propitious to him as those of Chel- 
tenham. The Peerage can ill spare such Peers as he. 

With Mrs. Unwin's best respects, I remain, my dear 
friend, most truly yours, Wm. Cowper. 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

The Lodge, January 19, 1789. 

My dear Sir — I have taken, since you went away, 
many of the walks which we have taken together ; and 
none of them, I believe, without thoughts of you. I 
have, though not a good memory in general, yet a good 
local memory, and can recollect, by the help of a tree or 
stile, what you said on that particular spot. For this 
reason I purpose, when the summer is come, to walk with 
a book in my pocket ; what I read at my fireside I forget, 
but what I read under a hedge, or at the side of a pond, 
that pond and that hedge will always bring to my remem- 
brance ; and this is a sort of memoria technica which I 
would recommend to you if I did not know that you have 
no occasion for it. 

I am reading Sir John Hawkins, and still hold the same 
opinion of his book as when you were here. There are 
in it, undoubtedly, some awkwardnesses of phrase, and, 
which is worse, here and there some unequivocal indica- 
tions of a vanity not easily pardonable in a man of his 
years ; but on the whole I find it amusing ; and to me at 
least, to whom everything that has passed in the literary 
world within these five and twenty years is new, sufficiently 
replete with information. Mr. Throckmorton told me 
about three da)^ since that it was lately recommended to 
him by a sensible man as a book that would give him 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 203 

great insight into the history of modem literature and 
modem men of letters — a commendation which I really 
think it merits. Fifty years hence, perhaps, the world 
will feel itself obliged to him. W. C. 



TO TH£ SAME. 

The Lodge, January 24, 1789. 

My dear Sir — We have heard from my cousin in 
Norfolk Street ; she reached home safely, and in good 
time. An observation suggests itself which, though I 
have but little time for observation-making, I must allow 
myself time to mention. Accidents, as we call them, 
generally occur when there seems least reason to expect 
them ; if a friend of ours travels far in different roads, and 
at an unfavourable season, we are reasonably alarmed for 
the safety of one in whom we take so much interest 5 yet 
how seldom do we hear a tragical account of such a 
journey I It is, on the contrary, at home, in our yard or 
garden, perhaps in our parlour, that disaster finds us ; in 
any place, in short, where we seem perfectly out of the 
reach of danger. The lesson inculcated by such a pro- 
cedure on the part of Providence towards us seems to be 
that of perpetual dependence. 

Having preached this sermon I must hasten to a close ; 
you know that I am not idle, nor can I afford to be so ; I 
would gladly spend more time with you, but by some 
means or other this day has hitherto proved a day of 
hindrance and confusion. W. C. 



TO THE REV. WALTER BAGOT. 

Weston, January 29, 1789. 
My DEAR Friend — I shall be a better, at least a more 



204 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

frequent correspondent, when I have done with Homer. 
I am not forgetful of any letters that I owe, and least of 
all forgetful of my debts in that way to you ; on the con- 
trary, I live in a continual state of self-reproach for not 
writing more punctually ; but the old Grecian, whom I 
charge myself never to neglect, lest I should never finish 
him, has at present a voice that seems to drown all other 
demands, and many to which I could listen with more 
pleasure than even to his Os rotundum. I am now in the 
eleventh book of the Odyssey^ conversing with the dead. 
Invoke the muse in my behalf, that I may roll the stone 
of Sisyphus with some success. To do it as Homer has 
done it is, I suppose, in our verse and language, impos- 
sible; but I will hope not to labour altogether to as 
little purpose as Sisyphus himself did. 

Though I meddle little with politics, and can find but 
little leisure to do so, the present state of things unavoid- 
ably engages a share of my attention. But as they say, 
Archimedes, when S3rracuse was taken, was found busied 
in the solution of a problem, so, come what may, I shall 
be found translating Homer. — Sincerely yours, 

W. C. 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

The Lodge, June 5, 1789. 
My dear Friend — I am going to give you a deal of 
trouble ; but London folks must be content to be troubled 
by country folks ; for in London only can our strange 
necessities be supplied. You must buy for me, if you 
please, a cuckoo clock ; and now I will tell you where 
they are sold, which, Londoner as you are, it is possible 
you may not know. They are sold, I am informed, at 
more houses than one in that narrow part of Holborn 
which leads into broad St. Giles'. It seems they are 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 205 

well-going clocks, and cheap, which are the two best 
recommendations of any clock. They are made in Ger- 
many, and such numbers of them are annually imported 
that they are become even a considerable article of 
commerce. 

I return you many thanks for Boswell's Tour, I read 
it to Mrs. Unwin after supper, and we find it amusing. 
There is much trash in it, as there must always be in 
every narrative that relates indiscriminately all that passed. 
But now and then the Doctor speaks like an oracle, and 
that makes amends for all. Sir John was a coxcomb, and 
Boswell is not less a coxcomb, though of another kind. I 
fancy Johnson made coxcombs of all his friends, and they 
in return made him a coxcomb ; for, with reverence be 
it spoken, such he certainly was, and, flattered as he was, 
he was sure to be so. 

Thanks for your invitation to London, but unless London 
can come to me, I fear we shall never meet. I was sure 
that you would love my friend when you should once be 
well acquainted with him ; and equally sure that he would 
take kindly to you. 

Now for Homer. W. C. 



TO MRS. THROCKMORTON. 

July 18, 1789. 

Many thanks, my dear madam, for your extract from 
George's letter. I retain but little Italian, yet that little 
was so forcibly mustered by the consciousness that I was 
myself the subject, that I presently became master of it. 
I have always said that George is a poet, and I am never 
in his company but I discover proofs of it ; and the deli- 
cate address by which he has managed his complimentary 
mention of me, convinces me of it still more than ever. 



2o6 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Here are a thousand poets of us, who have impudence 
enough to write for the public ; but amongst the modest 
men who are by diffidence restrained from such an enter- 
prise are those who would eclipse us all. I wish that 
George would make the experiment ; I would bind on his 
laurels with my own hand. 

Your gardener has gone after his wife, but having 
neglected to take his lyre, alias fiddle, with him, has not 
yet brought home his Eurydice. Your clock in the hall 
has stopped, and (strange to tell ! ) it stopped at sight of 
the watchmaker. For he only looked at it, and it has 
been motionless ever since. Mr. Gregson is gone, and 
the Hall is a desolation. Pray don't think any place 
pleasant that you may find in your rambles, that we may 
see you the sooner. Your aviary is all in good health. I 
pass it every day, and often inquire at the lattice; the 
inhabitants of it send their duty, and wish for your return. 
I took notice of the inscription on your seal, and had we 
an artist here capable of fiimishing me with another, you 
should read on mine, Encore une lettre. — Adieu. 

W. C. 

TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

Weston, August 8, 1789. 

My dear Friend — Come when you will, or when you 
can, you cannot come at a wrong time, but we shall 
expect you on the day mentioned. 

If ypu have any book that you think will make pleasant 
evening reading, bring it with you. I now read Mrs. 
Piozzi's Travels to the ladies after supper, and shall pro- 
bably have finished them before we shall have the pleasure 
of seeing you. It is the fashion, I understand, to con- 
demn them. But we who make books ourselves are more 
merciful to book-makers. I would that every fastidious 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 207 

judge of authors were himself obliged to write ; there goes 
more to the composition of a volume than many critics 
imagine. I have often wondered that the same poet who 
wrote the Dunciad should have written these lines : 



" The mercy I to others show, 
That mercy show to me." 



Alas for Pope I if the mercy he showed to others was 
the measure of the mercy he received I He was the less 
pardonable, too, because experienced in all the difficulties 
of composition. 

I scratch this between dinner and tea ; a time when I 
cannot write much without disordering my noddle, and 
bringing a flush into my face. You will excuse me there- 
fore if, through respect for the two important considerations 
of health and beauty, I conclude myself ever yours, 

W. C. 

TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

August Z2, 1789. 

My dear Friend— I rejoice that you and Mrs. Hill 
are so agreeably occupied in your retreat August, I 
hope, will make us amends for the gloom of its many 
wintry predecessors. We are now gathering from our 
meadows not hay, but muck, such stuff as deserves not 
the carriage, which yet it must have that the after-crop 
may have leave to grow. The Ouse has hardly deigned 
to run in his channel since the summer began. 

My muse were a vixen if she were not alwa3rs ready to 
fly in obedience to your commands. But what can be 
done ? I can write nothing in the few hours that remain 
to me of this day that will be fit for your purpose ; and, 
unless I could despatch what I write by to-morrow's post, 
it would not reach you in time. I must add, too, that 
my friend, the vicar of the next parish, engaged me, the 



208 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

day before yesterday, to furnish him by next Sunday with 
a hymn, to be sung on the occasion of his preaching to 
the children of the Sunday School, of which h3rmn I have 
not yet produced a syllable. I am somewhat in the case 
of Lawyer Dowling in Tom Jones y and could I split 
myself into as many poets as there are muses, could find 
employment for them all. Adieu, my dear friend. — I 
am ever yours, Wm. Cowper. 

TO MRS. BODHAM. 

Weston, February 27, 1790. 
My dearest Rose — ^Whom I thought withered and 
fallen from the stalk, but whom I find still alive : nothing 
could give me greater pleasure than to know it, and to 
learn it from yourself. I loved you dearly when you were 
a child, and love you not a jot the less for having ceased 
to be so. Every creature that bears any affinity to my 
mother is dear to me, and you, the daughter of her 
brother, are but one remove distant from her : I love you, 
therefore, and love you much, both for her sake and for 
your own. The world could not have furnished you with 
a present so acceptable to me as the picture which you 
have so kindly sent me. I received it the night before 
last, and viewed it with a trepidation of nerves and spirits 
somewhat akin to what I should have felt had the dear 
original presented herself to my embraces. I kissed it, 
and hung it where it is the last object that I see at night, 
and bf course the first on which I open my eyes in the 
morning. She died when I had completed my sixth year ; 
yet I remember her well, and am an ocular witness of 
the great fidelity of the copy. I remember, too, a multi- 
tude of the maternal tendernesses which I received from 
her, and which have endeared her memory to me beyond 
expression. There is in me, I believe, more of the 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 209 

Donne than of the Cowper; and though I love all of 
both names, and have a thousand reasons to love those of 
my own name, yet I feel the bond of nature draw me 
vehemently to your side, p was thought in the days of 
my childhood much to resemble my mother, and in my 
natural temper, of which at the age of fifty-eight I must 
be supposed a competent judge, can trace both her, and 
my late uncle, your father. Somewhat of his irritability, 

and a little I would hope both of his and of her , I 

know not what to call it without seeming to praise my- 
self, which is not my intention, but speaking to you, I 
will even speak out, and say goad nature. Add to all 
this, I deal much in poetry, as did our venerable ancestor, 
the Dean of St. Paul's, and I think I shall have proved 
myself a Donne at all points^ The truth is, that what- 
ever I am, I love you all. 

I account it a happy event that brought the dear boy, 
your nephew, to my knowledge, and that, breaking 
through all the restraints which his natural bashfuln^ 
imposed on him, he determined to find me out. He is 
amiable to a degree that I have seldom seen, and I often 
long with impatience to see him again. 

My dearest cousin, what shall I say in answer to your 
affectionate invitation ? I must say this : I cannot come 
now, nor soon, and I wish with all my heart I could. 
But I will tell you what may be done perhaps, and it will 
answer to us just as well : you and Mr. Bodham can 
come to Weston, can you not ? The summer is at hand, 
there are roads and wheels to bring you, and you are 
neither of you translating Homer. I am crazed that I 
cannot ask you all together for want of house-room ; but 
for Mr. Bodham and yourself we have good room, and 
equally good for any third, in the shape of a Donne, 
whether named Hewitt, Bodham, Balls, or Johnson, or 
by whatever name distinguished. Mrs. Hewitt has par- 

P 



2IO LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

ticular claims upon me ; she was my playfellow at Berk- 
hampstead, and has a share in my warmest affections. 
Pray tell her so. Neither do I at all forget my cousin 
Harriet. She and I have been many a time merry at 
Catfield, and have made the parsonage ring with laughter. 
Give my love to her. Assure yourself, my dearest cousin, 
that I shall receive you as if you were my sister ; and 
Mrs. Unwin is, for my sake, prepared to do the same. 
When she has seen you she will love you for your own. 

I am much obliged to Mr. Bodham for his kindness to 
my Homer, and with my love to you all, and with Mrs. 
Unwin's kind respects, am, my dear, dear Rose, ever 
yours, W. C. 

P.S. — I mourn the death of your poor brother Castres, 
whom I should have seen had he lived, and should have 
seen with the greatest pleasure. He was an amiable boy, 
and I was very fond of him. 

Still another P»S, — I find, on consulting Mrs. Unwin, 
that I have underrated our capabilities, and that we have 
not only room for you and Mr. Bodham, but for two of 
your sex, and even for your nephew into the bargain. 
We shall be happy to have it all so occupied. 

Your nephew tells me that his sister, in the qualities of 
the mind, resembles you ; that is enough to make her 
dear to me, and I beg you will assure her that she is so. 
Let it not be long before I hear from you. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, February 28, 1790. 
My dear Cousin John — I have much wished to hear 
from you ; and though you are welcome to write to Mrs. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 211 

Unwin as often as you please, I wish myself to be num- 
bered among your correspondents. 

I shall find time to answer you, doubt it not. Be as 
busy as we may, we can always find time to do what is 
agreeable to us. By the way, had you a letter from Mrs. 
Unwin? I am witness that she addressed one to you 
before you went into Norfolk ; but your mathematico- 
poetical head forgot to acknowledge the receipt of it. 

I was never more pleased in my life than to learn, 
and to learn from herself, that my dearest Rose is still 
alive. Had she not engaged me to love her by the 
sweetness of her character when a child, she would have 
done it effectually now, by making me the most accept- 
able present in the world, my own dear mother's picture. 
I am perhaps the only person living who remembers her, 
but I remember her well, and can attest, on my own 
knowledge, the truth of the resemblance. Amiable and 
elegant as the countenance is, such exactly was her own ; 
she was one of the tenderest parents, and so just a copy 
of her is therefore to me invaluable. 

I wrote yesterday to my Rose to tell her all this, and 
to thank her for her kindness in sending it. Neither do 
I forget your kindness, who intimated to her that I should 
be happy to possess it. 

She invites me into Norfolk, but, alas ! she might as 
well invite the house in which I dwell; for all other 
considerations and impediments apart, how is it possible 
that a translator of Homer should lumber to such a dis- 
tance? But though I cannot comply with her kind 
invitation, I have made myself the best amends in my 
power, by inviting her and all the family of Donnes to 
Weston. Perhaps we could not accommodate them all 
at once, but in succession we could ; and can at any time 
find room for five, three of them being females, and one 
a married one. You are a mathematician ; tell me, then, 



212 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

how five persons can by lodged in three beds (two males 
and three females), and I shall have good hope that you 
will proceed a senior optime. It would make me happy 
to see our house so flumished. As to yourself, whom I 
know to be a subsccUarian, or a man that sleeps under 
the stairs, I should have no objection at all, neither could 
you possibly have any yourself, to the garret, as a place 
in which you might be disposed of with great felicity of 
accommodation. 

I thank you much for your services in the transcribing 
way, and would by no means have you despair of an 
opportunity to serve me in the same way yet again. 
Write to me soon, and tell me when I shall see you. 

I have not said the half that I have to say, but break- 
fast is at hand, which always terminates my epistles. 

What have you done with your poem ? The trimming 
that it procured you here has not, I hope, put you out of 
conceit with it entirely : you are more than equal to the 
alteration that it needs. Only remember that, in writing, 
perspicuity is always more than half the battle. The 
want of it is the ruin of more than half the poetiy that is 
published. A meaning that does not stare you in the 
face is as bad as no meaning, because nobody will take 
the pains to poke for it. So now adieu for the present. 
Beware of killing yourself with problems ; for if you do 
you will never live to be another Sir Isaac. 

Mrs. Unwin's affectionate remembrances attend you ; 
Lady Hesketh is much disposed to love you ; perhaps 
most who know you have some little tendency the same 
way. 

TO LADY HESKETH. 

Thb Lodge, March 22, X79a 
I R^OICE, my dearest cousin, that my MSS. have 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 213 

roamed the earth so successfully, and have met with no 
disaster. The single book excepted that went to the 
bottom of the Thames and rose again, they have been 
fortunate without exception. I am not superstitious, but 
have nevertheless as good a right to believe that adventure 
an omen, and a favourable one, as Swift had to interpret, 
as he did, the loss of a fine fish, which he had no sooner 
laid on the bank than it flounced into the water again. 
This, he teUs us himself, he always considered as a tjrpe of 
his future disappointments ; and why may not I as well 
consider the marvellous recovery of my lost book from the 
bottom of the Thames as typical of its future prosperity ? 
To say the truth, I have no fears now about the success 
of my Translation, though in time past I have had many. 
I knew there was a style somewhere, could I but find it, 
in which Homer ought to be rendered, and which alone 
would suit him. Long time I blundered about it ere I 
could attain to any decided judgment on the matter ; at 
first I was betrayed, by a desire of accommodating my 
language to the simplicity of his, into much of the quaint- 
ness that belonged to our writers of the fifteenth century. 
In the course of many revisals I have delivered myself 
from this evil, I believe, entirely ; but I have done it 
slowly, and as a man separates himself from his mistress 
when he is going to marry. I had so strong a predilection 
in favour of this style at first that I was crazed to find 
that others were not as much enamoured with it as 
myself. At every passage of that sort which I obliterated, 
I groaned bitterly, and said to myself, I am spoiling my 
work to please those who have no taste for the simple 
graces of antiquity. But in measure as I adopted a more 
modem phraseology, I became a convert to their opinion, 
and in the last revisal, which I am now making, am not 
sensible of having spared a single expression of the obsolete 
kind. I see my work so much improved by this altera- 



214 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

tion that I am filled with wonder at my own backwardness 
to assent to the necessity of it; and the more when I 
consider that Milton, with whose manner I account mjrself 
intimately acquainted, is never quaint, never twangs 
through the nose, but is ever3rwhere grand and elegant, 
without resorting to musty antiquity for his beauties. On 
the contrary, he took a long stride forward, left the 
language of his own day fax behind him, and anticipated 
the expressions of a century yet to come. 

I have now, as I said, no longer any doubt of the 
event, but I will give thee a shilling if thou wilt tell me 
what I shall say in my Preface. It is an affair of much 
delicacy, and I have as many opinions about it as there 
are whims in a weathercock. 

Send my MSS. and thine when thou wilt. In a day 
or two I shall enter on the last Iliad, When I have 
finished it I shall give the Odyssey one more reading, and 
shall therefore shortly have occasion for the copy in thy 
possession ; but you see that there is no need to hurry. 

I leave the little space for Mrs. Unwin's use, who 
means, I believe, to occupy it, -and am evermore thine 
most truly, W. C. 

Postscript in the hand of Mrs, Unwin, 

You cannot imagine how much your ladyship would 
oblige your unworthy servant if you would be so good to 
let me know in what point I differ firom you. All that at 
present I can say is, that I will readily sacrifice my own 
opinion, unless I can give you a substantial reason for 
adhering to it. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, March 23, 1790. 
Your MSS. arrived safe in New Norfolk Street, and I 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 21 5 

am much obliged to you for your labours. Were you now 
at Weston I could furnish you with employment for some 
weeks, and shall perhaps be equally able to do it in 
summer, for I have lost ray best amanuensis in this place, 
Mr. George Throckmorton, who is gone to Bath. 

You are a man to be envied, who have never read the 
Odyssey^ which is one of the most amusing story-books in 
the world. There is also much of the finest poetry in the 
world to be found in it, notwithstanding all that Longinus 
has insinuated to the contrary. His comparison of the 
Iliad and Odyssey to the meridian and to the declining 
sun is pretty, but I am persuaded not just. The pretti- 
ness of it seduced him ; he was otherwise too judicious a 
reader of Homer to have made it. I can find in the latter 
no sjrmptoms of impaired ability, none of the effects of 
age ; on the contrary, it seems to me a certainty that 
Homer, had he written the Odyssey in his youth, could 
not have written it better ; and if the Iliad in his old age, 
that he would have written it just as well. A critic would 
tell me that instead oi written I should have said composed. 
Very likely ; but I am not writing to one of that snarling 
generation. 

My boy, I long to see thee again. It has happened 
some way or other that Mrs. Unwin and I have conceived 
a great affection for thee. That I should is the less to be 
wondered at, because thou art a shred of my own mother ; 
neither is the wonder great that she should fall into the 
same predicament, for she loves everything that I love. 
You will observe that your own personal right to be 
beloved makes no part of the consideration. There is 
nothing that I touch with so much tenderness as the 
vanity of a young man ; because I know how extremely 
susceptible he is of impressions that might hurt him in 
that particular part of his composition; If you should 
ever prove a coxcomb, from which character you stand 



2l6 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

just now at a greater distance than any young man I 
know, it shall never be said that I have made you one ; 
no, you will gain nothing by me but the honour of being 
much valued by a poor poet, who can do you no good 
while he lives, and has nothing to leave you when he dies. 
If you can be contented to be dear to me on these con- 
ditions, so you shall ; but other terms more advantageous 
than these, or more inviting, none have I to propose. 

FarewelL Puzzle not yourself about a subject when 
you write to .either of us ; everything is subject enough 
from those we love. W. C. 



TO THE SAME, 

Weston, April 17, 1790. 

Your letter that now lies before me is almost three 
weeks old, and therefore of full age to receive an answer, 
which it shall have without delay, if the interval between 
the present moment and that of breakfast should prove 
sufficient for the purpose. 

Yours to Mrs. Unwin was received yesterday, for which 
she will thank you in due time. I have also seen, and 
have now in my desk, your letter to Lady Hesketh ; she 
sent it thinking that it would divert me; in which she 
was not mistaken. I shall tell her when I write to her 
next that you long to receive a line from her. Give your- 
self no trouble on the subject of the politic device you saw 
good to recur to when you presented me with your manu- 
script ; it was an innocent deception, at least it could 
harm nobody save yourself — an effect which it did not 
fail to produce ; and since the punishment followed it so 
closely, by me at least it may very well be forgiven. You 
ask how I can tell that you are not addicted to practices 
of the deceptive kind ? And certainly, if the little time 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 217 

that I have had to study you were alone to be considered, 
the question would not be unreasonable ; but in general, 
a man who reaches my years finds 

r That long experience does attain 
\ To something like prophetic strain." 

I am veryinuch of Lravater's opinion, an^ persuaded 
that faces are as l^ble as books, only with these circum- 
stances to recommend them to our perusal, that they are 
read in much less time, and are much less likely to deceive 
us. Yours gave me a favourable impression of you the 
moment I beheld it, and though I shall not tell you in 
particular what I saw in it, for reasons mentioned in my 
last, I will add that I have observed in you nothing since 
that has not confirmed the opinion I then formed in 
your fevour. In fact, I cannot recollect that my skill 
in physiognomy has ever deceived me, and I should add 
more on this subject had I room. 

When you have shut up your mathematical book, you 
must give yourself to the study of Greek ; not merely that 
you may be able to read Homer and the other Greek 
classics with ease, but the Greek Testament and the 
Greek Fathers also. Thus qualified, and by the aid of 
your fiddle into the bargain, together with some portion 
of the grace of God (without which nothing can be done) 
to enable you to look well to your flock, when you shall 
get one, you will be well set up for a parson ; in which 
character, if I live to see you in it, I shall expect and 
hope that you will make a very different figure firom most 
of your firatemity. — Ever yours, W. C. 



TO MRS. THROCKMORTON. 

•# 

Thb Lodge, May zO) 1790. 
My dear Mrs. Frog — ^You have by this time (I pre- 



2l8 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

sume) heard from the Doctor, whom I desired to present 
to you our best affections, and to tell you that we are 
well. He sent an urchin (I do not mean a hedgehog, 
commonly called an urchin in old times, but a boy, com- 
monly so called at present), expecting that he would find 
you at Buckland's, whither he supposed you gone on 
Thursday. He sent him charged with divers articles, 
and among others with letters, or, at least, with a letter ; 
which I mention, that if the boy should be lost, together 
with his despatches, past all possibility of recovery, you 
may yet know that the Doctor stands acquitted of not 
writing. That he is utterly lost (that is to say, the boy, 
for the Doctor being the last antecedent, as the gram- 
marians say, you might otherwise suppose that he was 
intended) is the more probable, because he was never 
four miles from his home before, having only travelled at 
the side of a plough-team ; and when the Doctor gave 
him his direction to Buckland's, he asked, very naturally, 
if that place was in England. So what has become of 
him Heaven knows ! 

I do not know that any adventures have presented 
themselves since your departure worth mentioning, 
except that the rabbit that infested your Wilderness has 
been shot for devouring your carnations ; and that I my- 
self have been in some danger of being devoured in like 
manner by a great dog, namely, Pearson's. But I wrote 
him a letter on Friday (I mean a letter to Pearson, not 
to his dog, which I mention to prevent mistakes ; for the 
said last antecedent might occasion them in this place 
also), informing him, that unless he tied up his great 
mastiflf in the day-time, I would send him a worse thing, 
commonly called and known by the name of an attorney. 
When I go forth to ramble in the fields I do not sally, 
like Don Quixote, with a purpose of encountering mon- 
sters, if any such can be found ; but am a peaceable poor 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 219 

gentleman, and a poet, who mean nobody any harm, 
the fox-hunters and the two universities of this land 
excepted. 

I cannot learn from any creature whether the Turnpike 
Bill is alive or dead ; so ignorant am I, and by such igno- 
ramuses surrounded. But if I know little else, this at 
least I know, that I love you and Mr. Frc^ ; that I long 
for your return, and that I am, with Mrs. Unwin's best 
affections, ever yours, W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH, 

The Lodge, May sS, 1790. 
My dearest Coz— I thank thee for the offer of thy 
best services on this occasion. But Heaven guard my 
brows from the wreath you mention, whatever wreath 
beside may hereafter adorn them ! It would be a leaden 
extinguisher clapped on all the fire of my genius, and 
I should never more produce a line worth reading. To 
speak seriously, it would make me miserable, and there- 
fore I an\ sure that thou, of all my friends, wouldst least 
wish me to wear it. Adieu ! Ever thine — in Homer- 
hurry, W. C. 



TO THE SAME, 

Weston, June 3, 1790. 
You will wonder when I tell you that I, even I, am 
considered by people, who live at a great distance, as 
having interest and influence sufficient to procure a place 
at Court for those who may happen to want one. I have 
accordingly been applied to within these few days by a 
Welshman, with a wife and many children, to get him 



220 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

made Poet-laureate as fast as possible. If thou wouldst 
wish to make the world merry twice a-year, thou canst 
not do better than procure the office for him. I will 
promise thee that he shall afford thee a hearty laugh in 
return, every birthday, and every new year. He is an 
honest man. Adieu I W. C. 



TO THE REV. WALTER BAGOT. 

Weston, June 2a, ^^yx 
My dear Friend — I rejoice with you in the good 
Bishop's removal to St. Asaph, and especially because 
the Norfolk parsons much more resemble the ants above 
mentioned than he the serpent. He is neither of vast 
size, nor unwieldy, nor voracious; neither, I daresay, 
does he sleep after dinner, according to the practice of 
the said serpent. But harmless as he is, I am mistaken 
if his mutinous clergy did not sometimes disturb his rest, 
and if he did not find their bite, though they could not 
actually eat through him, in a degree resembling fire. 
Good men like him, and peaceable, should have good 
and peaceable folks to deal with, and I hearily ;¥ish him 
such in his new diocese. But if he will keep the clergy 
to their business, he shall have trouble, let him go where 
he may; and this is boldly spoken, considering that I 
speak it to one of that reverend body. But ye are like 
Jeremiah's basket of figs. Some of you could not be 
better, and some of you are stark naught. Ask the 
Bishop himself if this be not true 1 W. C. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, July 31, 1790W 
You have by this time, I presume, answered Lady 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 221 

Hesketh*s letter ? if not, answer it without delay ; and 
this injunction I give you, judging that it may not be 
entirely unnecessary ;^or though I have seen you but 
once, and only for two or three days, I have found out 
that you are a scatter-brain. I made the discovery per- 
haps the sooner, because in this you very much resemble 
myself, who in the course of my life have, through mere 
carelessness and inattention, lost many advantages ; an 
insuperable shyness has also deprived me of many. And 
here again there is a resemblance between us. You will 
do well to guard against both, for of both, I believe, you 
have a considerable share as well as mysel0 

We long to see you again, and are only concerned at 
the short stay you propose to make with us. If time 
should seem to you as short at Weston as it seems to 
us, your visit here will be gone "as a dream when one 
awaketh, or as a watch in the night." 
^It is a life of dreams ; but the pleasantest one naturally 
wishes longesgj 

I shall find employment for you, having made already 
some part of the fair copy of the Odyssey a foul one. I 
am revising it for the last time, and spare nothing that I 
can mend. The Iliad is finished. 

If you have Donne's Poems bring them with you, for I 
have not seen them many years, and should like to look 
them over. 

£Trou may treat us too, if you please, with a little of 
your music, for I seldom hear any, and delight much in 
it. You need not fear a rival, for we have but two fiddles 
in the neighbourhood, — one a gardener's, the other a 
tailor's ; terrible performers both rj W. C. 



222 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

TO MRS. BODHAM. 

Weston, September q, 179a 
My dearest Cousin — I am truly sorry to be forced 
after all to resign the hope of seeing you and Mr. Bodham 
at Weston this year ; the next may possibly be more pro- 
pitious, and I heartily wish it may. Poor Catharine's 
unseasonable indisposition has also cost us a disappoint- 
ment, which we much regret ; and were it not that Johnny 
has made shift to reach us, we should think ourselves 
completely unfortunate. But him we have, and him we 
will hold, as long as we can ; so expect not very soon to 
see him in Norfolk. He is so harmless, cheerful, gentle, 
and good-tempered, and I am so entirely at my ease with 
him, that I cannot surrender him without a needs must, 
even to those who have a superior claim upon him. He 
left us yesterday morning, and whither do you think he 
is gone, and on what errand? Gone, as sure as you 
are alive, to London, and to convey my Homer to the 
bookseller's. But he will return the day after to-morrow, 
and I mean to part with him no more, till necessity shall 
force us asunder. Suspect me not, my cousin, of being 
such a monster as to have imposed this task myself on 
your kind nephew, or even to have thought of doing it. 
It happened that one day, as we chatted by the fireside, 
I expressed a wish that I could hear of some trusty body 
going to London, to whose care I might consign my 
voluminous labours, the work of five years ; for I purpose 
never to visit that city again myself, and should have 
been uneasy to have left a charge of so much importance 
to me altogether to the care of a stage-coachman. 
Johnny had no sooner heard my wish than, offering 
himself to the service, he ftilfilled it ; and his offer was 
made in such terms, and accompanied with a countenance 
and manner expressive of so much alacrity, that unreason- 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 223 

able as I thought it at first to give him so much trouble, 
I soon found that I should mortify him by a refusal. 
He is gone, therefore, with a box full of poetry, of which 
I think nobody will plunder him. He has only to say 
what it is, and there is no commodity I think a free- 
booter would covet less. W. C. 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

^^HE Lodge, September 13, 1790. 
My dear FRiEND-^Your letter was particularly wel- 
come to me, not only because it came after a long silence, 
but because it brought me good news — news of your 
marriage, and consequently, I trust, of your happiness?^ 
May that happiness be durable as your lives, and may 
you be the Felices ter et amplius of whom Horace sings 
so sweetly ! This is my sincere wish, and, though ex- 
pressed in prose, shall serve as your epithalamium. You 
comfort me when you say that your marriage will not 
deprive us of the sight of you hereafter. If you do not 
wish that I should r^ret your union, you must make 
that assurance good as often as you have opportunity, 
(^fter perpetual versification during five years, I find 
myself at last a vacant man, and reduced to read for my 
amusement. My Homer is gone to the press, and you 
will imagine that I feel a void in consequence. The 
proofs, however, will be coming soon, and I shall avail 
myself, with all my force, of this last opportunity to 
make my work as perfect as I wisT TltT] I shall not, there- 
fore, be long time destitute of employment, but shall 
have sufficient to keep me occupied all the winter, and 
part of the ensuing spring, for Johnson purposes to publish 
either in March, April, or May. My very Preface is 
finished ; it did not cost me much trouble, being neither 



224 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

long nor learned. I have spoken my mind as freely as 
decency would permit on the subject of Pope's version, 
allowing him at the same time, all the merit to which I 
think him entitled. I have given my reasons for translating 
in blank verse, and hold some discourse on the mechan- 
ism of it, chiefly with a view to obviate the prejudices 
of some people against it. I expatiate a little on the 
manner in which I think Homer ought to be rendered, 
and in which I have endeavoured to render him myself, 
and anticipiated two or three cavils, to which I foresee 
that I shall be liable from the ignorant or uncandid, 
in order, if possible, to prevent them. These are the 
chief heads of my Preface, and the whole consists of 
about twelve pages. 

It is possible, when I come to treat with Johnson about 
the copy, I may want some person to n^otiate for me ; 
and knowing no one so intelligent as yourself in books, 
or so well qualified to estimate their just value, I shall 
beg leave to resort to and rely on you as my negotiator. 
But I will not trouble you imless I should see occasion. 
£[My cousin was the bearer of my MSS. to London : he went 
on purpose, and returns to-morrow. Mrs. Unwin's af- 
fectionate felicitations, added to my own, conclude me, 
my dear friend, sincerely yoursp^ W. C. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

Sepietnber 17, 179a 
My dear Friend — I received last night a copy of 
my subscribers* names from Johnson, in which I see how 
much I have been indebted to yours and to Mrs. Hill's 
solicitations. Accept my best thanks, so justly due to 
you both. It is an illustrious catalogue, in respect of 
rank and title, but methinks I should have liked it as 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 225 

well had it been more numerous. The sum subscribed, 
however, will defray the expense of printing ; which is as 
much as, in these unsubscribing days, I had any reason 
to promise myself. I devoutly second your droll wish, 
that the booksellers may contend about me. The more 
the better. Seven times seven, if they please ; and let 
them fight with the fury of Achilles 

" Till every rubric-post be crimson'd over 
With blood of booksellers, in battle slain, 
For me, and not a periwig untom." * 

—Most truly yours, Wm. Cowper. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, January 21, 1791. 

I KNOW that you have already been catechised by Lady 
Hesketh on the subject of your return hither before the 
winter shall be over, and shall therefore only say, that if 
you CAN COME, we shall be happy to receive you. Re- 
member also that nothing can excuse the non-performance 
of a promise but absolute necessity ! In the meantime, 
my faith in your veracity is such that I am persuaded you 
will suffer nothing less than necessity to prevent it. Were 
you not extremely pleasant to us, and just the sort of 
youth that suits us, we should neither of us have said half 
so much, or perhaps a word on the subject. 

Yours, my dear Johnny, are vagaries that I shall never 
see practised by any other ; and whether you slap your 
ancle, or reel as if you were fuddled, or dance in the path 
before me, all is characteristic of yourself, and therefore 
to me delightful. I have hinted to you indeed sometimes 
that you should be cautious of indulging antic habits and 
singularities of all sorts, and young men in general have 

Q 



226 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

need enough of such admonition. But yours are a sort of 
fairy habits, such as might belong to Puck or Robin Good- 
fellow, and therefore, good as the advice is, I should be 
half sorry should you take it. 

This allowance at least I give you ; — continue to take 
your walks, if walks they may be called, exactly in their 
present fashion till you have taken orders ! Then indeed, 
forasmuch as a skipping, curvetting, bounding divine 
might be a spectacle not altogether seemly, I shall con- 
sent to your adoption of a more grave demeanour. 

W. C 



TO THE SAME. 

February 27, 1791. 

Now, my dearest Johnny, I must tell thee in few words 
how much I love and am obliged to thee for thy affec- 
tionate services. 

My Cambridge honours are all to be ascribed to you, 
and to you only. Yet you are but a little man ; and a 
little man into the bargain who have kicked the mathe- 
matics, their idol, out of your study. So important are 
the endings which Providence frequently connects with 
small beginnings. Had you been here, I could have 
furnished you with much employment ; for I have so 
dealt with your fair manuscripts in the course of my 
polishing and improving, that I have almost blotted out 
the whole. Such, however, as it is, I must now send it 
to the printer, and he must be content with it, for there 
is not time to make a fresh copy. We are now printing 
the second book of the Odyssey, 

Should the Oxonians bestow none of their notice on me 
on this occasion, it will happen singularly enough, that as 
Pope received all his university honours in the subscription 
way from Oxford, and none at all from Cambridge, so I 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 227 

shall have received all mine from Cambridge, and none 
from Oxford. This is the more likely to be the case, 
because I understand that on whatsoever occasion either 
of those learned bodies thinks fit to move, the other always 
makes it a point to sit still, thus proving its superiority. 

I shall send up your letter to Lady Hesketh in a day 
or two, knowing that the intelligence contained in it will 
afford her the greatest pleasure. Know likewise, for your 
own gratification, that all the Scotch universities have 
subscribed, none excepted. 

We are all as well as usual ; that is to say, as well as 
reasonable folks expect to be on the crazy side of this 
frail existence. 

I rejoice that we shall so soon have you again at oiu: 
fireside. W, C. 



TO THE REV. MR. HURDIS. 

Weston, March 6, 1791. 

Sir — I have alwa3rs entertained, and have occasionally 
avowed, a great degree of respect for the abilities of the 
unknown author of the " Village Curate," unknown at 
that time, but now well known, and not to me only, but 
to many. For before I was favoured with your obliging 
letter, I knew your name, your place of abode, your pro- 
fession, and that you had four sisters — all which I learned 
neither from our bookseller, nor from any of his con- 
nexions ; you will perceive, therefore, that you are no 
longer an author incognito. The writer, indeed, of many 
passages that have fallen from your pen could not long 
continue so. Let genius, true genius, conceal itself where 
it may, we may say of it, as the young man in Terence of 
his beautiful mistress, "Z>w latere non potest.*^ 

I am obliged to you for your kind offers of service, and 



228 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

will not say that I shall not be troublesome to you here- 
after ; but at present I have no need to be so. I have 
within these two days given the very last stroke of my 
pen to my long translation, and what will be my next 
career I know not. At any rate we shall not, I hope, 
hereafter be known to each other as poets only, for your 
writings have made me ambitious of a nearer approach to 
you. Your door, however, will never be opened to me. 
My fate and fortune have combined with my natural 
disposition to draw a circle round me which I cannot 
pass ; nor have I been more than thirteen miles from 
home these twenty years, and so far very seldom. But 
you are a younger man, and therefore may not be quite 
so immovable ; in which case, should you choose at any 
time to move Weston-ward, you will always find me 
happy to receive you ; and in the meantime I remain, 
with much respect, your most obedient servant, critic, and 
friend, W. C. 

P.S.-^l wish to know what you mean to do with Sir 
Thomas. For though I expressed doubts about his 
theatrical possibilities, I think him a very respectable 
person, and with some improvement well worthy of being 
introduced to the public 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

March xo, 1791. 

Give my affectionate remembrances to your sisters, and 
tell them I am impatient to entertain them with my old 
story new dressed. 

I have two French prints hanging in my study, both on 
Iliad subjects ; and I have an English one in the parlour, 
on a subject from the same poem. In one of the former, 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 329 

Agamemnon addresses Achilles exactly in the attitude of 
a dancing-master turning miss in a minuet ; in the latter 
the figures are plain, and the attitudes plain also. This 
is, in some considerable measure, I believe, the difference 
between my translation and Pope's ; and will serve as an 
exemplification of what I am going to lay before you and 
the pubHc. * W. C. 



TO THE REV. WALTER BAGOT. 

Weston, March 18, 1791. 

My DEAR Friend — I give you joy that you are about 
to receive some more of my elegant prose, and I feel 
mjrself in danger of attempting to make it even more 
el^^nt than usual, and thereby of spoiling it, under the 
influence of your commendations. But my old helter- 
skelter manner has already succeeded so well that I will 
not, even for the sake of entitling myself to a still greater 
portion of your praise, abandon it. 

I did not call in question Johnson's true spirit of poetry, 
because he was not qualified to relish blank verse (though, 
to tell you the truth, I think that but an ugly S3anptom) ; 
but if I did not express it, I meant, however, to infer it 
from the perverse judgment that he has formed of our 
poets in general, depreciating some of the best, and making 
honourable mention of others, in my opinion, not un- 
deservedly neglected. I will lay you sixpence, that, had 
he lived in the days of Milton, and by any accident had 
met with his Paradise Losty he would neither have directed 
the attention of others to it, nor have much admired it 
himself. Good sense, in short, and strength of intellect, 
seem to me, rather than a fine taste, to have been his 
distinguishing characteristics. But should you still think 
otherwise, you have my free permission ; for so long as 



230 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

you have yourself a taste for the beauties of Cowper, I 
care not a fig whether Johnson had a taste or not 

I wonder where you find all your quotations, pat as 
they are to the present condition of France. Do you 
make them yourself, or do you actually find them ? I am 
apt to suspect sometimes that you impose them only on 
a poor man who has but twenty books in the world, and 
two of them are your brother Chester's. They are, how- 
ever, much to the purpose, be the author of them who 
he may. 

I was very sorry to learn lately that my friend at 
Chicheley has been some time indisposed, either with gout 
or rheumatism (for it seems to be uncertain which), and 
attended by Dr. Kerr. I am at a loss to conceive how 
so temperate a man should acquire the gout, and am 
resolved therefore to conclude that it must be the 
rheumatism, which, bad as it is, is in my judgment the 
best of the two ; and will afford me besides some oppor- 
tunity to sympathise with him, for I am not perfectly 
exempt from it myself. Distant as you are in situation, 
you are yet, perhaps, nearer to him in point of intelligence 
than I ; and if you can send me any particular news of 
him, pray do it in your next. 

I love and thank you for your benediction. If God 
forgive me my sins, surely I shall love Him much, for I 
have much to be forgiven. But the quantum need not 
discourage me, since there is One whose atonement can 
suffice for all. 

ToO 8k Kad* atfia /tiev, Kal (toI, Kal ^fiol, xal dSeX^oTs 

Accept our joint remembrances, and believe me affec- 
tionately yours, W. C. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 23 1 

TO MRS. THROCKMORTON. 

April x^ ijgi. 

My dear Mrs. Frog — A word or two before break- 
fast, which is all that I shall have time to send you. You 
have not, I hope, forgot to tell Mr. Frog how much I 
am obliged to him for his kind, though unsuccessful, 
attempt in my favour at Oxford. It seems not a little 
extraordinary that persons so nobly patronised themselves, 
on the score of literature, should resolve to give no en- 
couragement to it in return. Should I find a fair oppor- 
tunity to thank them hereafter, I will not neglect it. 

" Could Homer come himself, distress'd and poor, 
And tune his harp at Rhedycina's door. 
The rich old vixen would exclaim, I fear, 
' Begone ! no tramper gets a farthing here.' " 

I have read your husband's pamphlet through and 
through. You may think, perhaps, and so may he, that 
a question so remote from all concern of mine could not 
interest me ; but if you think so, you are both mistaken. 
He can write nothing that will not interest me ; in the 
first place, for the writer's sake ; and in the next place, 
because he writes better and reasons better than anybody, 
with more candour, and with more sufficiency, and, con- 
sequently, with more satisfaction to all his readers, save 
only his opponents. They, I think, by this time wish that 
they had let him alone. 

Tom is delighted past measure with his wooden nag, 
and gallops at a rate that would kill any horse that had a 
life to loose. Adieu 1 W. C. 

TO THE REV. MR. BUCHANAN. 

Weston, Majf u, 1791. 
My dear Sir — You have sent me a beautiful poem. 



232 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

wanting nothing but metre. I would to Heaven that you 
would give it that requisite yourself; for he who could make 
the sketch cannot but be well qualified to finish it. But 
if you will not, I will ; provided always, nevertheless, 
that God gives me ability ; for it will require no common 
share to do justice to your conceptions. — I am muchyours, 

W. C. 

Your little messenger vanished before I could catch him. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, June i, 1791. 
My dearest Johnny — Now you may rest. — Now I 
can give you joy of the period, of which I gave you hope 
in my last ; the period of all your labours in my service. 
But this I can foretell you also, that if you persevere in 
serving your fiiends at this rate, your life is likely to be a 
life of labour. Yet persevere ! your rest will be the 
sweeter hereafter ! In the meantime I wish you, if at any 
time you should find occasion for him, just such a firiend 
as you have proved to me I W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

The Lodge, June 23, 1791. 
Send me a draft, my dearest Coz, for as much money 
as I hope thou hast by this time received on my account, 
viz. from Anonymous, and viz. from William Cowper, for 
we are driven to our last guinea. Let me have it by 
Sunday's post, lest we become absolutely insolvent. 

We have received beef, tongues, and tea, 
And certainly from none but thee ; 
Therefore with all our power of songs, 
Thanks for the beef, and tea, and tongues I 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 233 

As I said, so it proves. I told you that I should like our 
guests when they had been here a day or two, and accord- 
ingly I like them so well now that it is impossible to like 
them better. Mrs. Balls is an unafifected, plain-dressing, 
good-tempered, cheerful, motherly sort of a body, and 
has the affection of a parent for her niece and nephew. 
Her niece is an amiable young woman in all respects, a 
handsome likeness of Johnny, and with a smile so like my 
mother's, that in this cousin of mine she seems almost 
restored to me again. I would that she had better health, 
but she has suffered sadly in her constitution by divers 
causes, and especially by nursing her father in his last 
illness, from whose side she stirred not till he expired. 
Johnny, with whom I have been alwa3rs delighted, is also 
so much in love with me that no place in the world will 
suit him to live in at present except Weston. Where he 
lives his sister will live likewise, and their aunt is under 
promise to live with them, at least till Catharine shall 
have attained under her tuition some competent share of 
skill in the art of housekeeping. They have looked at a 
house, the next but one to ours, and like it. You may 
perhaps remember it ; it is an old house with girt case- 
ment windows, and has a fir tree in the little court in 
front of it. Here they purpose to settle, if Aunt Bodham, 
who is most affectionately attached to them all, can be 
persuaded not to break her heart about it. Of this there 
are some hopes, because, did they live in Norfolk, they 
would neither live with her nor even in her neighbourhood, 
but at thirty miles distance. Johnny is writing to her 
now, with a view to reconcile her with the measure, and 
should he succeed, the house will be hired immediately. 
It will please thee, I think, to know that we are likely to 
have our solitary situation a little enlivened, and therefore 
I have given thee this detail of the matter. 

I told thee, I believe, that my work is to be published 



234 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

on the first of July. So Johnson purposed when I heard 
from him last; but whether he will so perform or not 
must be left to time to discover. I see not what should 
hinder it. He has not yet made known on what terms 
he will treat with me for the copy. Perhaps he will stay 
till he has had an opportunity in some measure to learn 
the world's opinion of it, to which I have no objection. 
I do not wish more than a just price for it, but should be 
sorry to take less ; and there will be danger of either too 
much or too little till the public shall have stamped its 
value. 

My chief distress at present is that I cannot write, at 
least can write nothing that will satisfy myself. I have 
made once or twice a beginning, and, disgusted with what 
I have done, have dropped it. I have a subject, and a 
subject for a long work, a subject that I much like, and 
that will suggest much poetical matter. Mr. Buchanan 
gave it me, and it is called "The Four Ages of Man.'* 
But I had need to have many more ages before me unless 
I can write on it to better purpose. 

With affectionate compliments from our guests, and 
with Mrs. Unwin*s kindest remembrances, I remain, 
dearest Coz, ever thine, Wm. Cowper. 



TO THE SAME. 

The Lodge, July it, 2791. 
My DEAREST Coz — Your draft is safe in our posses- 
sion, and will soon be out of it, — that is to say, will soon 
be negotiated. Many thanks for that, and still more for 
your kindness in bidding me draw yet again, should I 
have occasion. None I hope will offer. I have a purse 
at Johnson's to which, if need should arise, I can recur 
at pleasure. The present is rather an expensive time 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 235 

with us, and will probably cause the consumption of 
some part of my loose cash in the hands of my book- 
seller. 

I am not much better pleased with that dealer in 
authors than yourself. His first proposal, which was to 
pay me with my own money, or in other words to get 
my copy for nothing, not only dissatisfied but hurt me, 
implying, as I thought, the meanest opinion possible of 
my labours. For that for which an intelligent man will 
give nothing can be worth nothing. The consequence 
was that my spirits sank considerably below par, and 
have but just begun to recover themselves. His second 
offer, which is, to pay all expenses, and to give me a 
thousand pounds next mid-summer, leaving the cop3nright 
still in my hands, is more liberal. With this offer I have 
closed, and Mr. Rose will to-morrow clench the bargain. 
Josephus understands that Johnson will gain two hundred 
pounds by it, but I apprehend that he is mistaken, and 
that Mr. Rose is right who estimates his gains at one. 
Mr. Hill's mistake, if he be mistaken, arises from his 
rating the expenses of the press at only five hundred 
pounds, whereas Johnson rates them at six. Be that as 
it may, I am contented. If he gains two, I shall not 
grudge ; and if he gains but one, considering all things, I 
think he will gain enough. 

As to Sephus's scheme of signing the seven hundred 
copies in order to prevent a clandestine multiplication of 
them, at the same time that I feel the wisdom of it, I 
feel also an insurmountable dislike of it. It would be 
calling Johnson a knave, and telling the public that I 
think him one. Now though I do not perhaps think so 
highly of his liberality as some people do, and I was once 
myself disposed to think, yet I have no reason at present to 
charge him with dishonesty. I must even take my chance, 
as other poets do, and if I am wronged, must comfort my- 



236 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

self with what somebody has said — ^that authors are the 
natural prey of booksellers. 

You judge right in supposing that I pity the King and 
Queen of France. I can truly say, that, except the late 
melancholy circumstances of our own (when our sovereign 
had lost his senses, and his wife was almost worried out 
of hers), no royal distresses have ever moved me so much. 
And still I pity them, prisoners as they now are for life, 
and, since their late unsuccessful attempt, likely to be 
treated more scurvily than ever. Heaven help them, for 
in their case all other help seems vain. 

The establishment of our guests at Weston is given up ; 
not for any impediment thrown in the way by Mrs. 
Bodham, for she consented with the utmost disinterested- 
ness, to the measure, but because on survejdng accurately 
the house in which they must have dwelt, it was found to 
be so near a ruin that it would have cost its value to make 
it habitable. They could only take it from year to year, 
for which reason the landlord would do nothing. 

Many thanks for the Mediterranean hint, but unless I 
were a better historian than I am, there would be no pro- 
portion between the theme and my ability. It seems indeed 
not so properly to be the subject for one poem as for a dozen. 

I was pleased with Bouillie*s letter, or, to say the truth, 
rather by the principles by which it was dictated. The 
letter itself seems too much the language of passion, and 
can only be cleared of the charge of extravagance by the 
accomplishment of its denunciations — an event, I appre- 
hend, not much to be expected. 

We are all well except poor Catharine, who yesterday 
consulted Dr. Kerr, and to-day is sick of his prescription. 
Our affectionate hearts all lay themselves at your pettitoes, 
and with Mrs. Unwin*s best remembrances, I remain for my 
own peculiar, most entirely thine, Wm. Cowper. 

The Frogs are expected here on Wednesday. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 237 



TO THE REV. WM. BULL, BRIGHTON, SUSSEX. 

Weston, J-uly 27, 1791. 

My dear Mr. Bull — Mindful of my promise I take 
the pen, though fearing, and with reason enough, that the 
performance will be hardly worth the postage. Such as 
it is, however, here it comes, and if you like it not, you 
must thank yourself for it. 

I have blest myself on your account that you are at 
Brighton and not at Birmingham, where it seems they 
are so loyal and so pious that they show no mercy to 
dissenters. How can you continue in a persuasion so 
offensive to the wise and gOQd 1 Do you not yet perceive 
that the Bishops themselves hate you not more than the 
very blacksmith of the establishment, and will you not 
endeavour to get the better of your aversion to red -nosed 
singing men and organs ? Come — ^be received into the 
bosom of mother church, so shall you never want a 
jig for your amusement on Sundays, and shall save 
perhaps your academy from a conflagration. 

As for me, I go on at the old rate, giving all my time 
to Homer, who I suppose was a Presbyterian too, for I 
understand that the Church of England will by no means 
acknowledge him as one of hers. He, I say, has all my 
time, except a little that I give every day to no very 
cheering promise of futurity. I would I were a Hottentot, 
or even a dissenter, so that my views of an hereafter were 
more comfortable. But such as I am, hope, if it please 
God, may visit even me ; and should we ever meet again, 
possibly we may part no more. Then if Presbyterians ever 
find the way to Heaven, you and I may know each other 
in that better world, and rejoice in the recital of the terrible 
things that we endured in this. I will wager sixpence with 
you now, that when that day comes, you shall acknow- 



238 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

ledge my story a more wonderful one than yours ; — only 
order your executors to put sixpence in your mouth when 
they bury you, that you may have wherewithal to pay me. 
I have received a long letter from an unknown some- 
body, filled with the highest eulogiums on my Homer. 
This has raised my spirits and is the true cause of all 
the merriment with which I have treated you this morning. 
Pardon me, as Vellum says in the comedy, for being 
jocular. Mrs. Unwin joins me in love to yourself and 
your very good son, and we both hope and both sincerely 
wish to hear of Mrs. Bull's recovery, — Yours affection- 
ately, Wm. Cowper. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, August 9, 1791. 
My dearest Johnny— The little that I have heard 
about Homer myself has been equally, or more flattering 

than Dr. *s intelligence, so that I have good reason 

to hope, that I have not studied the old Grecian, and 
how to dress him, so long, and so intensely, to no purpose. 
At present I am idle, both on account of my eyes, and 
because I know not to what to attach myself in particular. 
Many different plans and projects are recommended to 
me. Some call aloud for original verse, others for more 
translation, and others for other things. Providence, I 
hope, will direct me in my choice ; for other guide I have 
none, nor wish for another. God bless you, my dearest 
Johnny. W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

The Lodge, August 30, Z79Z. 
My dearest Coz — The walls of Ogressa*s chamber 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 239 

shall be furnished as elegantly as they can be, and at 
little cost, and when you see them you shall cry, Bravo ! 
Bedding we have, but two chairs will be wanting, the 
servants' hall having engaged all our supernumeraries. 
These you will either send or give us commission to buy 
them. Such as will suit may be found probably at 
Maurice Smith's, of house -furnishing memory, and this 
latter course I should think the best, because they are 
of all things most liable to fracture in a waggon. 

I know not how it can have happened that Homer is such 
a secret at Tunbridge, for I can tell you that his fame is 
on the wing, and flies rapidly. Johnson, however, seems 
to be clear from blame ; and when you recollect that the 
whole edition is his by purchase, and that he has no 
possible way to get his money again but by the sale of it, 
thou thyself will think so. A tradesman — an old stager 
too — may safely be trusted with his own interest. 

I have spoken big words about Homer's fame, and 
bigger, perhaps, than my intelligence will justify, for I 
have not heard much, but what I have heard has been 
pretty much to the purpose. First, little Johnny going 
through Cambridge in his way home, learned from his 
tutor there that it had found many admirers amongst the 
best qualified judges of that university, and that they 
were- very liberal of their praises. Secondly, Mr. Rye 
wrote me word lately that a certain candid fair critic 
and excellent judge, of the county of Northampton, gives 
it high encomiums. Thirdly, Mr. Rye came over him- 
self from Gayhurst yesterday on purpose to tell me how 
much he was delighted with it. He had just been reading 
the sixth Iliad^ and comparing it with Pope and with the 
original, and professed himself enchanted. Fourthly, Mr. 
Frog is much pleased with it ; and fifthly, Henry Cowper 

is bewitched with it ; and sixthly, so are you and I, 

— ca sujffit. 



24© LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

But now if thou hast the faculty of erecting thy ears 
lift them into the air, first taking off thy cap, that they 
may have the highest possible elevation. Mrs. Unwin 
says, No, don't tell her ladyship all, — tell her only enough 
to raise her curiosity, that she may come the sooner to 
Weston to have it gratified. But I say, Yes, I will tell 
her all, lest she should be overcharged and burst by 
the way. 

The Chancellor and I, my dear, have had a correspond- 
ence on the subject of Homer. He had doubts, it seems, 
about the propriety of translating him in blank verse, 
and wrote to Henry to tell him so, adding a translation 
of his own in rhyme of the speech of Achilles to Phoenix, 
in the ninth book, and referring him to me, who, he said, 
could elevate it, and polish it, and give it the tone of 
Homer. Henry sent this letter to me, and I answered it 
in one to his lordship, but not meddling with his verses, 
for I remembered what happened between Gil Bias and the 
Archbishop of Toledo. His lordship sent me two sheets 
in reply, filled with arguments in favour of rhyme, which 
I was to answer if I could ; and containing another trans- 
lation of the same passage, only in blank verse, leaving 
it to me to give it rhyme, to make it close, and faithfiil, 
and poetical All this I performed as best I could, and 
yesterday I heard from him again. In his last letter he 
says, ** I am clearly convinced that Homer may be best 
translated without rhyme, and that you have succeeded 
in the passages I have looked into." 

Such is the candour of a wise man and a real scholar. 
I would to Heaven that all prejudiced persons were like 
him ! — I answered this letter immediately ; and here, I 
suppose, our correspondence ends. Have I not made a 
great convert ? You shall see the letters, both his and 
mine, when you come. 

My picture hangs in the study. I will not tell thee 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 24 1 

what others think of it ; but thou shalt judge for thyself. 
I altogether approve Mrs. Carter's sentiments upon the 
Birmingham riots, and admire her manner of expressing 
them. The Frc^ come down to-day, bringing Catherina 
with them. Mrs. Frog has caught cold, as I hear, in her 
journey ; therefore how she may be now I know not, but 
before she went she was well and in excellent spirits. I 
rejoice that thy poor lungs can play freely, and shall be 
happy when they can do the same at Weston. My eyes 
are weak and somewhat inflamed, and have never been 
well this month past. 

Mrs. Unwin is tolerably well, — ^that is, much as usual. 
She joins me in best love, and in everything that you can 
wish us both to feel for you. Adieu, my dearest Coz. 
Ever thine, Wm. Cowper. 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

Thb Lodge, September 14, X79X. 

My dear Friend— -Whoever reviews me will in fact 
have a laborious task of it, in the performance of which 
he ought to move leisurely, and to exercise much critical 
discernment. In the meantime my courage is kept up 
by the arrival of such testimonies in my favour as give 
me the greatest pleasure, coming from quarters the most 
respectable. I have reason, therefore, to hope that our 
periodical judges will not be very averse to me, and that 
perhaps they may even favour me. If one man of taste 
and letters is pleased, another man so qualified can hardly 
be displeased ; and if critics of a different description 
grumble, they will not, however, materially hurt me. 

You, who know how necessary it is to me to be em- 
ployed, will be glad to hear that I have been called to a 
new literary engagement, and that I have not refused it. 



242 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

A Milton that is to rival, and if possible to exceed in 
splendour BoydelFs Shakespeare, is in contemplation, and 
I am in the editor's office. Fuseli is the painter. My 
business will be to select notes from others, and to write 
original notes ; to translate the Latin and Italian poems, 
and to give a correct text I shall have years allowed me 
to do it in. W. C. 



TO MRS. KING. 

Weston Underwood, October 21, 1791. 

My dear Madam — You could not have sent me more 
agreeable news than that of your better health, and I am 
greatly obliged to you for making me the first of your 
correspondents to whom you have given that welcome 
intelligence. This is a favour which I should have 
acknowledged much sooner, had not a disorder in my 
eyes, to which I have always been extremely subject, 
required that I should make as little use of my pen as 
possible. I felt much for you when I read that part of 
your letfer in which you mention your visitors, and the 
fatigue which, indisposed as you have been, they could 
not fail to occasion you. Agreeable as you would have 
found them at another time, and happy as you would 
have been in their company, you could not but feel the 
addition they necessarily made to your domestic attentions 
as a considerable inconvenience. But I have always said, 
and shall never say otherwise/^that if patience under 
adversity, and submission to thVafflicting hand of God, 
be true fortitude, which no reasonable person can deny, 
then your sex have ten times more fortitude to boast than 
ours ; and I have not the least doubt that you carried your- 
self with infinitely more equanimity on that occasion than 
I should have done, or any he of my acquaintance. Why 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 243 

is it, since the first offender on earth was a woman, that 
the women are nevertheless in all the most important 
points superior to men ? That they are so I will not 
allow to be disputed, having observed it ever since I was 
capable of making the observation. I believe, on recol- 
lection, that when I had the happiness to see you here, 
we agitated this question a little ; but I do not remember 
that we arrived at any decision of it. The Scripture calls 
you the weaker vessels ; and perhaps the best solution of 
the difficulty, therefore, may be found in those other words 
of Scripture, My strength is perfected in weakness. Unless 
you can furnish me with a better key than this, I shall be 
much inclined to believe that I have found the true one. 

I am deep in a new literary engagement, being retained 
by my bookseller as editor of an intended most magnificent 
publication of Milton's Poetical Works. This will occupy 
me as much as Homer did for a year or two to come ; 
and when I have finished it I shall have run through all 
the degrees of my profession, as author, translator, and 
editor. I know not that a fourth could be found ; but if a 
fourth can be found, I daresay I shall find it. 

Mrs. Unwin joins me in best compliments to yourself 
and Mr. King, who I hope by this time has entirely 
recovered from the cold he had when you wrote, and from 
all the effects of it. I shall be happy to learn firom you 
that you have had no more attacks of your most painful 
disorder in the stomach, and remain in the meantime, 
my dear madam, your affectionate friend and humble 
servant, W. C. 



TO JOSEPH HILL, ESQ. 

November 14, 1791. 

My dear Friend— I have waited and wished for your 
opinion with the feelings that belong to the value I have 



244 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

for it, and am very happy to find it so favourable. In my 
table-drawer I treasure up a bundle of suffrages sent me 
by those of whose approbation I was most ambitious, and 
shall presently insert yours among them. 

I know not why we should quarrel with compound 
epithets ; it is certain at least they are as agreeable to the 
genius of our language as to that of the Greek, which 
is sufficiently proved by their being admitted into our 
common and colloquial dialect. Black-eyed, nut-brown, 
crook-shanked, hump-backed, are all compound epithets, 
and, together with a thousand other such, are used con- 
tinually, even by those who profess a dislike to such 
combinations in poetry. Why, then, do they treat with 
so much familiarity a thing that they say disgusts them? 
I doubt if they could give this question a reasonable 
answer, unless they should answer it by confessing them- 
selves unreasonable. 

I have made a considerable progress in the translation 
of Milton's Latin poems. I give them, as opportunity 
offers, all the variety of measure that I can. Some I 
render in heroic rh3ane, some in stanzas, some in seven, 
and some in eight-syllable measure, and some in blank 
verse. They will altogether, I hope, make an agreeable 
miscellany for the English reader. They are certainly 
good in themselves, and cannot fail to please but by the 
fault of their translator. W. C. 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

The Lodge, December 21, 1791. 
My dear Friend — It grieves me, after having indulged 
a little hope that I might see you in the holidays, to be 
obliged to disappoint myself. The occasion, too, is such 
as will ensure me your sympathy. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 245 

On Saturday last, while I was at my desk near the 
window, and Mrs. Unwin at the fireside opposite to it, I 
heard her suddenly exclaim, "Oh I Mr. Cowper, don't 
let me fall I ** I turned and saw her actually falling, 
together with her chair, and started to her side just in 
time to prevent her. She was seized with a violent 
giddiness, which lasted, though with some abatement, 
the whole day, and was attended, too, with some other 
very very alarming s3niiptoms. At present, however, 
she is relieved from the vertigo, and seems in all respects 
better. 

She has been my faithful and affectionate nurse for 
many years, and consequently has a claim on all my 
attentions. She has them, and will have them as long as 
she wants them ; which will probably be, at the best, a 
considerable time to come. I feel the shock, as you may 
suppose, in every nerve. God grant that there may be 
no repetition of it I Another such a stroke upon her 
would, I think, overset me completely ; but at present I 
hold up bravely. W. C. 

TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

February 20, 1792. 

My dear Friend — When I wrote the words in 

question I was, as I almost always am, so pressed for 

time that I was obliged to put them do\vn in a great 

hurry. Perhaps I printed them wrong. If a full stop 

be made at the end of the second line, the appearance 

of inconsistency perhaps will vanish ; but should you still 

think them liable to that objection, they may be altered 

thus : — 

" In vain to live from age to age, 

We modem bards endeavour ; 

But write in Patty's book one page, 

You gain your point for ever." 



246 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Trifling enough I readily confess they are ; but I have 
always allowed myself to trifle occasionally ; and on this 
occasion had not, nor have at present, time to do more. 
By the way, should you think this amended copy worthy 
to displace the former, I must wait for some future op- 
portunity to send you them properly transcribed for the 
purpose. 

It is rather singular that the same post which brought 
me yours, in which you express your disapprobation of 
this trifle, as such, brought me likewise a request from 
a very pious lady that I would write for her a copy of 
verses on a pen stolen by a niece of hers from the Prince 
of Wales* standish. I am obliged to comply, and con- 
sequently must trifle again ; and thus it fares with poets 
by profession. Our wits are not at our own command, 
but must of necessity be sometimes directed to such 
subjects, not as we should choose for ourselves, but as 
our friends are pleased to choose for us. 

Your demand of more original composition from me 
will, if I live, and it please God to afford me health, in 
all probability be sooner or later gratified. In the mean- 
time you need not — and if you turn the matter in your 
thoughts a little, you will perceive that you need not — 
think me unworthily employed in preparing a new edition 
of Milton. His two principal are of a kind that call for 
an editor who believes the Gospel, and is well grounded 
in all evangelical doctrine. Such an editor they have 
never had yet, though only such a one can be qualified 
for the office. 

We mourn for the mismanagement at Botany Bay, and 
foresee the issue. The Romans were, in their origin, 
banditti ; and if they became in time masters of the 
world, it was not by drinking grog, and allowing them- 
selves in all sorts of licentiousness. The African colonisa- 
tion, and the manner of conducting it, has long been 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 247 

matter to us of pleasing speculation. God has highly 
honoured Mr. Thornton, and I doubt not that the 
subsequent history of the two settlements will strikingly 
evince the superior wisdom of his proceedings. 

I write now in a hurry not to be easily conceived, and 
am at this moment called to breakfast. Mrs. Unwin, I 
thank God, is still recovering, though still slowly. She 
unites with me in affectionate remembrances to yourself 
and Miss Catlett, and Lady Hesketh adds her compli- 
ments. Adieu, my dear friend. — I am most truly yours, 

Wm. Cowper. 

Many thanks for a barrel of oysters which came, not- 
withstanding the late warm weather, perfectly sweet and 
good. 

F.S. — Lady Hesketh made the same objection to my 
verses as you ; but she being a lady critic I did not heed 
her. As they stand at present, however, they are hers ; 
and I believe you will think them much improved. 

My heart bears me witness how glad I shall be to see 
you at the time you mention, and Mrs. Unwin says the 
same. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, March 11, 1792, 
My dearest Johnny — You talk of primroses that 
you pulled on Candlemas Day ; but what think you of 
me who heard a nightingale on New Year's Day ? Per- 
haps I am the only man in England who can boast of 
such good fortune — ^ood indeed, for if it was at all an 
omen it could not be an unfavourable one. The winter, 
however, is now making himself amends, and seems the 
more peevish for having been encroached on at so undue 



248 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

a season. Nothing less than a large slice out of the spring 
will satisfy him. 

Lady Hesketh left us yesterday. She intended, indeed, 
to have left us four days sooner ; but in the evening before 
the day fixed for her departure snow enough fell to occa- 
sion just so much delay of it. 

We have faint hopes that in the month of May we 
shall see her again. I know that you have had a letter 
from her, and you will no doubt have the grace not to 
make her wait long for an answer. 

We expect Mr. Rose on Tuesday, but he stays with us 
only till the Saturday following. With him I shall have 
some conferences on the subject of Homer, — ^respecting a 
new edition I mean, and some, perhaps, on the subject of 
Milton ; on him I have not yet begun to comment, or 
even fix the time when I shall. — Forget not your promised 
visit I ' W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

March 18, 1792. 

My dear Friend — We are now once more reduced 
to our dual state, having lost our neighbours at the Hall, 
and our inmate Lady Hesketh. Mr. Rose, indeed, has 
spent two or three days here, and is still with us ; but he 
leaves us in the afternoon. There are those in the world 
whom we love, and whom we are happy to see ; but we 
are happy likewise in each other, and so far independent 
of our fellow mortals as to be able to pass our time com- 
fortably without them ; as comfortably at least as Mrs. 
Unwin's frequent indispositions, and my no less frequent 
troubles of mind, will permit. When I am much distressed 
any company but hers distresses me more, and makes 
me doubly sensible of my sufferings ; though sometimes I 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 249 

confess it falls out otherwise, and by the help of more 
general conversation I recover that elasticity of mind 
which is able to resist the pressure. On the whole I 
believe I am situated exactly as I should wish to be were 
my situation to be determined by my own election ; and 
am denied no comfort that is compatible with the total 
absence of the chief of all. 

William Peace called on me, I forget when, but about 
a year ago. His errand was to obtain from me a certifi- 
cate of his good behaviour during the time he had lived 
with us. His conduct in our service had been such for 
sobriety and integrity as entitled him to it, and I readily 
gave him one. At the same time I confess myself not at 
all surprised that the family to which you recommended 
him soon grew weary of him. He had a bad temper, 
that always sat astride on a runaway tongue, and ceased 
not to spur and to kick it into all the sin and mischief 
that such an ungovernable member, so ridden, was sure 
to fall into. He had no sooner quitted us, which he did 
when he married, than he made even us, who had always 
treated him with kindness, a mark for his slanderous 
humour. What he said we know not, because we chose 
not to know ; but such things we are assured, and credibly 
too, as, had we known them, would have been extremely 
offensive to us. Whether he be a Christian or not is no 
business of mine to determine. There was a time when 
he seemed to have had Christian experience ; and there 
has been a much longer time in which, his attention on 
ordinances excepted, he has manifested, I doubt, no one 
symptom of the Christian character. Prosperity did him 
harm ; adversity, perhaps, may do him good. I wish it 
may ; and if he be indeed a pupil of divine grace, it 
certainly will, when he has been sufficiently exercised 
with it, of which he seems at present to have a very 
promising prospect. 



250 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

You judge well concerning the Prince, and better than 
I did. His seducers are certainly most to be blamed, 
and so I have been used both to say and to think ; but 
when I wrote my last they happened not to occur to me. 
That he and all dissolute princes are entitled to compassion 
on account of the snares to which their situation exposes 
them, is likewise a remark which I have frequently made 
myself, but did not on that occasion advert to it. But 
the day is come when it behoves princes to be a little 
more cautious. These allowances will not be made by 
the many; especially they will be apt to censure their 
excesses with a good deal of severity if themselves should 
be called upon to play the piper. That our royal hopes 
are not a little more discreet in their management at such 
a time as this seems utterly unaccountable, unless on a 
supposition that their practices have brought them to a 
state of blind and frantic desperation that will not suffer 
them to regard the consequences. The ministers of 
sedition are busy — indefatigable, indeed, and the expense 
that attends a kingly government is an argument which 
millions begin to feel the force of. But I shall tire you 
with my politics, and the more, perhaps, because they are 
so gloomy. The sable cloud, however, has a luminous 
edge. The unmanageable prince, and the no less un- 
manageable multitude, have each a mouth into which 
God can thrust a curb when He pleases, and kings shall 
reign and the people obey to the last moment of His 
appointment. 

Adieu ! my dear friend, with our united love to your- 
self and Miss Catlett. — I remain, affectionately yours, 

Wm. Cowper. 

Mr. Rose desires his respectful compliments. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 25 1 



TO THE REV. MR. HURDIS. 

Weston, March 23, 179a. 

My dear Sir — I have read your play carefully, and 
with great pleasure ; it seems now to be a performance 
that cannot fail to do you much credit. Yet, unless my 
memory deceives me, the scene between Cecilia and 
Heron in the garden has lost something that pleased me 
much when I saw it first ; and I am not sure that you 
have not likewise obliterated an account of Sir Thomas's 
execution that I found very pathetic. It would be strange 
if, in these two particulars, I should seem to miss what 
never existed ; you will presently know whether I am as 
good at remembering what I never saw as I am at for- 
getting what I have seen. But if I am right, I cannot 
help recommending the omitted passages to your recon- 
sideration. If the play were designed for representation, 
I should be apt to think Cecilia's first speech rather too 
long, and should prefer to have it broken into dialogue 
by an interposition now and then from one of her sisters. 
But since it is designed, as I understand, for the closet 
only, that objection seems of no importance ; at no rate, 
however, would I expunge it, because it is both prettily 
imagined and elegantly written. 

I have read your cursory remarks^ and am much pleased 
both with the style and the argument. Whether the 
latter be new or not I am not competent to judge ; if it be, 
you are entitled to much praise for the invention of it. 
Where other data are wanting to ascertain the time when 
an author of many pieces wrote each in particular, there 
can be no better criterion by which to determine the point 
than the more or less proficiency manifested in the com- 
position. Of this proficiency, where it appears, and of 
those plays in which it appears not, you seem to me to 



252 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

have judged well and truly j and consequently I approve 
of your arrangement 

I attended, as you desired me, in reading the character 
of Cecilia, to the hint you gave me concerning your sister 
Sally, and give you joy of such a sister. This, however, 
not exclusively of the rest, for though they may not be all 
Cecilias, I have a strong persuasion that they are all very 
amiable. W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

The Lodge, March 25, 1792. 

My dearest Coz — Mr. Rose's longer stay than he at 
firet intended was the occasion of the longer delay of my 
answer to your note, as you may both have perceived by 
the date thereof, and learned from his information. It 
was a, daily trouble to me to see it lying in the window- 
seat while I knew you were in expectation of its arrival. 
By this time, I presume, you have seen him, and have 
seen likewise Mr. Hayley*s friendly letter and compli- 
mentary sonnet, as well as the letter of the honest Quaker ; 
all of which, at least the two former, I shall be glad to 
receive again at a fair opportunity. Mr. Hayle/s letter 
slept six weeks in Johnson's custody. It was necessary 
I should answer it without delay, and accordingly I 
answered it the very evening on which I received it, 
giving him to understand, among other things, how much 
vexation the bookseller's folly had cost me, who had 
detained it so long ; especially on account of the distress 
that I knew it must have occasioned to him also. From 
his reply, which the return of the post brought me, I learn 
that in the long interval of my non-correspondence he had 
suffered anxiety and mortification enough ; so much, that 
I daresay he made twenty vows never to hazard again 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 253 

either letter or compliment to an unknown author. What, 
indeed, could he imagine less than that I meant by such 
an obstinate silence to tell him that I valued neither him 
nor his praises, nor his proffered friendship— in short, 
that I considered him as a rival, and therefore, like a true 
author, hated and despised him? He is now, however, 
convinced that I love him, as indeed I do, and I account 
him the chief acquisition that my own verse has ever 
procured me. Brute should I be if I did not, for he 
promises me every assistance in his power. 

I have likewise a very pleasing letter from Mr. Park, 
which I wish you were here to read ; and a very pleasing 
poem that came enclosed in it for my revisal, written 
when he was only twenty years of age, yet wonderfully 
well written, though wanting some correction. 

To Mr. Hurdis I return Sir Thomas More to-morrow, 
having revised it a second time. He is now a very 
respectable figure, and will do my friend, who gives him 
to the public this spring, considerable credit W. C. 



TO WILLIAM HAYLEY, ESQ. 

Weston, April t^ 1792. 

My dear Friend— God grant that this friendship of 
ours may be a comfort to us all the rest of our days, in a 
world where true friendships are rarities, and especially 
where, suddenly formed, they are apt soon to terminate I 
But as I said before, I feel a disposition of heart toward 
you that I never felt for one whom I had never seen ; and 
that shall prove itself I trust in the event a propitious 
omen. 



254 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Horace says somewhere, though I may quote it amiss 
perhaps, for I have a terrible memory — 

" Utrumque nostrum incredibili modo 
Consentit astrum. " 

* * * Our stars consent^ at least have had an influence some- 
what similar, in another and more important article. * * * 

It gives me the sincerest pleasure that I may hope to 
see you at Weston ; for as to any migrations of mine, 
they must, I fear, notwithstanding the joy I should feel 
in being a guest of yours, be still considered in the light 
of impossibilities. Coihe then, my friend, and be as 
welcome, as the country people say here, as the flowers 
in May I I am happy, as I say, in the expectation, but 
the fear, or rather the consciousness, that I shall not 
answer on a nearer view, makes it a trembling kind of 
happiness, and a doubtful. 

After the privacy which I have mentioned above, I 
went to Huntingdon : soon after my arrival there, I took 
up my quarters at the house of the Rev. Mr. Unwin ; I 
lived with him while he lived, and ever since his death 
have lived with his widow. Her, therefore, you will 
find mistress of the house ; and I judge of you amiss, or 
you will find her just such as you would wish. To me she 
has been often a nurse, and invariably the kindest friend, 
through a thousand adversities that I have had to grapple 
with in the course of almost thirty years. I thought 
it better to introduce her to you thus, than to present her 
to you at your coming, quite a stranger. 

Bring with you any books that you think may be 
useful to my commentatorship, for with you for an inter- 
preter I shall be afraid of none of them. And in 
truth, if you think that you shall want them, you must 
bring books for your own use also, for they are an 
article with which I am heinously unprovided ; being 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 255 

much in the condition of the man whose library Pope 
describes as 

<« no mighty store, 

His own works neatly bound, and little more ! '* 

You shall know how this has come to pass hereafter. 

Tell me, my friend, are your letters in your own hand- 
writing ? If so I am in pain for your eyes, lest by such 
frequent demands upon them I should hurt them. I had 
rather' write you three letters for one, much as I prize 
your letters, than thai should happen. And now, for 
the present, adieu. I am going to accompany Milton 
into the lake of fire and brimstone, having just begun my 
annotations. W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Weston, June 5, 179a. 

Yesterday was a noble day with us — speech almost 
perfect — eyes open almost the whole day, without any 
effort to keep them so — and the step wonderfully im- 
proved. But the night has been almost a sleepless one, 
owing partly, I believe to her having had as much sleep 
again as usual the night before ; for even when she is in 
tolerable health she hardly ever sleeps well two nights 
together. I found her accordingly a little out of spirits 
this morning, but still insisting on it that she is better. 
Indeed, she always tells me so, and will probably die 
with those very words upon her lips. They will be true 
then at least, for then she will be best of all. She is 
now (the clock has just struck eleven) endeavouring, I 
believe, to get a little sleep ; for which reason I do not 
yet let her know that I have received your letter. 

Can I ever honour you enough for your zeal to serve 
me ? Truly, I think not ; I am, however, so sensible of 



256 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

the love I owe you on this account, that I every day 
regret the acuteness of your feelings for me, convinced 
that they expose you to much trouble, mortification, and 
disappointment. I have, in short, a poor opinion of my 
destiny, as I told you when you were here ; and though 
I believe that if any man living can do me good, you 
will, I cannot yet persuade myself that even you will be 
successful in attempting it. But it is no matter : you are 
yourself a good which I can never value enough, and 
whether rich or poor in other respects, I shall alwa)rs 
account myself better provided for than I deserve, with 
such a friend at my back as you. Let it please God to 
continue to me my William and Mary, and I will be 
more reasonable than to grumble. 

I rose this morning wrapped round with a cloud of 
melancholy, and with a heart full of fears ; but if I see 
Mary's amendment a little advanced, when she rises, I 
shall be better. 

I have just been with her again. Except that she is 
fatigued for want of sleep, she seems as well as yester- 
day. The post brings me a letter from Hurdis, who is 
broken-hearted for a d)ring sister. Had we eyes sharp 
enough, we should see the arrows of Death flying in all 
directions, and account it a wonder that we and our 
friends escape them but a single day. W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

Weston, June 11, 1792. 
My dearest Coz — Thou art ever in my thoughts, 
whether I am writing to thee or not ; and my corres- 
pondence seems to grow upon me at such a rate, that I 
am not able to address thee so often as I would. In 
fact, I live only to write letters. Hayley is, as you see. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 257 

added to the number, and to him I write almost as duly 
as I rise in the morning ; nor is he only added, but his 
friend Carwardine also — Carwardine the generous, the 
disinterested, the friendly. I seem, in short, to have 
stumbled suddenly on a race of heroes, men who resolve 
to have no interests of their own till mine are served. 

But I will proceed to other matters that concern me 
more intimately and more immediately than all that 
can be done for me either by the great or the small, or 
by both united. Since I wrote last, Mrs. Unwin has 
been continually improving in strength, but at so gradual 
a rate that I can only mark it by saying that she moves 
about every day with less support than the former. Her 
recovery is most of all retarded by want of sleep. On the 
whole, I believe she goes on as well as could be expected, 
though not quite well enough to satisfy me. And Dr. 
Austen, speaking from the reports I have made of her, 
says he has no doubt of her restoration. 

During the last two months I seem to myself to have 
been in a dream. It has been a most eventful period, 
and fruitful to an uncommon degree, both in good and 
evil. I have been very ill, and suffered excruciating 
pain. I recovered, and became quite well again. I re- 
ceived within my doors a man, but lately an entire 
stranger, and who now loves me as his brother, and 
forgets himself to serve me. Mrs. Unwin has been 
seized with an illness that for many clays threatened to 
deprive me of her, and to cast a gloom, an impenetrable 
one, on all my future prospects. She is now granted to 
me again. A few days since I should have thought the 
moon might have descended into my purse as likely as 
any emolument, and now it seems not impossible. All 
this has come to pass with such rapidity as events move 
with in romance indeed, but not often in real life. 
Events of all sorts creep or fly exactly as God pleases. 

S 



258 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

To the foregoing I have to add, in conclusion, the 
arrival of my Johnny, just when I wanted him most, and 
when only a few days before I had no expectation of him. 
He came to dinner on Saturday, and I hope I shall keep 
him long. What comes next I know not, but shall 
endeavour, as you exhort me, to look for good, and I 
know I shall have your prayers that I may not be dis- 
appointed. 

Hayley tells me you begin to be jealous of him, lest I 
should love him more than I love you, and bids me say, 
"that should I do so, you in revenge must love him 
more than I do. " Him I know you will love, and me, 
because you have such a habit of doing it that you can- 
not help it. 

Adieu ! my knuckles ache with letter-writing. With 
my poor patient's affectionate remembrances, and Johnny's, 
I am ever thine, W. C. 



TO WILLIAM HAYLEY, ESQ. 

Weston, June ig, 1792. 

My Mary goes on well. Be it known to you that we 
have these four days discarded our sedan with two elbows. 
Here is no more carrying, or being carried, but she walks 
upstairs boldly, with one hand upon the balustrade, and 
the other under my arm, and in like manner she comes 
down in a morning. Still I confess she is feeble, and 
misses much of her former strength. The weather, too, 
is sadly against her; it deprives her of many a good 
turn in the orchard, and fifty times have I wished this 
very day that Dr. Darwin's scheme of giving rudders 
and sails to the Ice Islands, that spoil all our summers, 
were actually put into practice. So should we have 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 259 

gentle airs instead of churlish blasts ; and those ever- 
lasting sources of bad weather being once navigated into 
the southern hemisphere, my Mary would recover as fast 
again. We are both of your mind respecting the journey 
to Eartham, and think that July, if by that time she 
have strength for the journey, will be better than August 
We shall have more long days before us, and then we 
shall want as much for our return as for our going forth. 
This, however, must be left to the Giver of all good. If 
our visit to you be according to His will. He will smooth 
the way before us, and appoint the time of it ; and I thus 
speak, not because I wish to seem a saint in your eyes, 
but because my poor Mary actually is one, and would 
not set her foot over the threshold imless she had, or 
thought she had, God's free permission. • With that she 
would go through floods and fire, though without it she 
would be afraid of everything, — afraid even to visit you, 
dearly as she loves, and much as she longs to see you. 

W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Weston, July 15, 1792. 

The progress of the old nurse in Terence is very much 
like the progress of my poor patient in the road of 
recovery. I cannot, indeed, say that she moves but 
advances not, for advances are certainly made, but the 
progress of a week is hardly perceptible. I know not, 
therefore, at present, what to say about this long postponed 
journey. The utmost that it is safe for me to say at this 
moment is this : You know that you are dear to us both ; 
true it is that you are so, and equally true that the very 
instant we feel ourselves at liberty, we will fly to Eartham. 
I have been but once within the Hall door since the 



26o LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Courtenays came home, much as I have been pressed to 
dine there, and have hardly escaped giving a little offence 
by declining it ; but though I should offend all the world 
by my obstinacy in this instance, I would not leave my 
poor Mary alone. Johnny serves me as a representative, 
and him I send without scruple. As to the affair of 
Milton, I know not what will become of it. I wrote to 
Johnson a week since to tell him that the interruption of 
Mrs. Unwin's illness still continuing, and being likely to 
continue, I knew not when I should be able to proceed. 
The translations, I said, were finished, except the revisal 
of a part. 

God bless your dear little boy and poet 1 I thank him 
for exercising his dawning genius upon me, and shall be 
still happier to thank him in person. 

Abbot is painting me so true, 
That, trust me, you would stare, 
And hardly know, at the first view. 
If I were here, or there. 

I have sat twice ; and the few who have seen his copy of 
me are much struck with the resemblance. He is a 
sober, quiet man, which, considering that I must have 
him at least a week longer for an inmate, is a great 
comfort to me. 

My Mary sends you her best love. She can walk now, 
leaning on my arm only, and her speech is certainly much 
improved. I long to see you. Why cannot you and 
dear Tom spend the remainder of the summer with us ? 
We might all then set off for Eartham merrily together. 
But I retract this, conscious that I am unreasonable. It 
is a wretched world, and what we would is almost always 
what we cannot. 

Adieu 1 Love me, and be sure of a return. ,y ^ 



LEITERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 26 1 



TO THE SAME. 

Weston, July 22, 1792. 

This important affair, my dear brother, is at last 
decided, and we are coming. Wednesday se*ennight, if 
nothing occur to make a later day necessary, is the day 
fixed for our journey. Our rate of travelling must depend 
on Mary's ability to bear it. Our mode of travelling will 
occupy three days unavoidably, for we shall come in a 
coach. Abbot finishes my picture to-morrow ; on Wed- 
nesday he returns to town, and is commissioned to order 
one down for us, with four steeds to draw it ; 

-Hollow pamper'd jades of Asia, 



That cannot go but forty miles a day. 

Send us our route, for I am as ignorant of it almost as if 
I were in a strange country. We shall reach St. Alban's, 
I suppose, the first day ; say where we must finish our 
second day's journey, and at what inn we may best 
repose ? As to the end of the third day, we know where 
that will find us, namely, in the arms and under the roof 
of our beloved Hayley. 

General Cowper, having heard a rumour of this intended 
migration, desires to meet me on the road, that we may 
once more see each other. He lives at Ham, near 
Kingston. Shall we go through Kingston, or near it? 
For I would give him as little trouble as possible, though 
he offers very kindly to come as far as Barnet for that 
purpose. Nor must I forget Carwardine, who so kindly 
desired to be informed what way we should go. On what 
point of the road will it be easiest for him to find us ? On 
all these points you must be my oracle. My friend and 
brother, we shall overwhelm you with our numbers ; this 
is all the trouble that I have left. My Johnny of No\fcW«.^ 



262 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

happy in the thought of accompanying us, would be 
broken-hearted to be left behind. 

In the midst of all these solicitudes I laugh to think 
what they are made of, and what an important thing it 
is for me to travel. Other men steal away from their 
homes silently, and make no disturbance ; but when I 
move, houses are turned upside down, maids are turned 
out of their beds, all the counties through which I pass 
appear to be in an uproar ; Surrey greets me by the 
mouth of the General, and Essex by that of Carwardine. 
How strange does all «this seem to a man who has seen 
no bustle, and made none, for twenty years together. 
Adieu I W. C. 



TO THE REV. WM. BULL. 

July 25, 1792. 

My dear Mr. Bull — Engaged as I have been ever 
since I saw you, it was not possible that I should write 
sooner ; and busy as I am at present, it is not without 
difficulty that I can write even now ; but I promised you 
a letter, and must endeavour at least to be as good as my 
word. How do you imagine I have been occupied these 
last ten days ? In sitting — not on cockatrice eggs, nor 
yet to gratify a mere idle humour, nor because I was too 
sick to move; but because my cousin Johnson has an 
aunt who li^ ^ longing desire for my picture, and because 
he would, therefore, bring a painter from London to 
draw it. For this purpose I have been sitting, as I say, 
these ten days, and am heartily glad that my sitting time 
is over. You have now, I know, a burning curiosity to 
learn two things, which I may choose whether I will tell 
you or not. First, who was the painter ; apd secondly, 
how he has succeeded. The painter's name is Abbot. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 263 

You never heard of him you say. It is very likely ; but 
there is, nevertheless, such a painter, and an excellent 
one he is. Multa sunt qua bonus Bemadus nee vidity 
nee audivit. To your second inquiry I answer that he 
has succeeded to admiration. The likeness is so strong 
that when my friends enter the room where my picture is 
they start, astonished to see me where they know I am 
not. Miserable man that you are, to be at Brighton 
instead of being here to contemplate this prodigy of art, 
which therefore you can never see ; for it goes to London 
next Monday, to be suspended awhile at Abbot's ; and 
then proceeds into Norfolk, where it will be suspended 
for ever. 

But the picture is not the only prodigy I have to tell 
you of. A greater belongs to me, and one that you will 
hardly credit, even on my own testimony. We are on 
the eve of a journey, and a long one. On this very day 
se*ennight we set out for Eartham, the seat of my brother 
bard, Mr. Hayley, on the other side of London, nobody 
knows where, a hundred and twenty miles off. Pray for 
us, my friend, that we may have a safe going and return. 
It is a tremendous exploit, and I feel a thousand anxieties 
when I think of it. But a promise, made to him when 
he was here, that we would go if we could, and a sort of 
persuasion that we can if we will oblige us to it. The 
journey and the change of air, together with the novelty 
to us of the scene to which we are going, may, I hope, 
be useful to us both, especially to Mrs. Unwin, who has 
most need of restoratives. She sends her love to you and 
to Thomas, in which she is sincerely joined by your 
affectionate W. C. 



264 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

TO WILLIAM HAYLEY, ESQ. 

Weston, July 29, 1792. 

Through floods and flames, to your retreat, 

I win my desp'rate way, 
And when we meet, if e'er we meet, 

Will echo your huzza I 

You will wonder at the word desfrate in the second 
line, and at the if in the third ; but could you have any 
conception of the fears I have had to battle with, of 
the dejection of spirits that I have suffered concerning 
this journey, you would wonder much more that I still 
courageously persevere in my resolution to undertake it. 
Fortunately for my intentions, it happens that as the day 
approaches my terrors abate ; for had they continued to 
be what they were a week since, I must after all have 
disappointed you, and was actually once on the verge of 
doing it. I have told you something of my nocturnal 
experiences, and assure you now that they were hardly 
ever more terrific than on this occasion. Prayer has, 
however, opened my passage at last, and obtained for me 
a degree of confidence that I trust will prove a comfort^ 
able viaticum to me all the way. On Wednesday, there- 
fore, we set forth. 

The terrors that I have spoken of would appear ridi- 
culous to most ; but to you they will not, for you are a 
reasonable creature, and know well that to whatever 
cause it be owing (whether to constitution, or to Gk)d*s 
express appointment), I am hunted by spiritual hounds in 
the night season. I cannot help it. You will pity me, 
and wish it were otherwise ; and though you may think 
there is much of the imaginary in it, will not ^eem it for 
that reason an evil less to be lamented. So much for 
fears and distresses. Soon I hope they shall all have a 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 265 

joyfiil termination, and I, my Mary, my Johnny, and my 
dog, be skipping with delight at Eartham ! 

Well, this picture is at last finished, and well finished, 
I can assure you. Every creature that has seen it has 
been astonished at the resemblance. Sam's boy bowed 
to it, and Beau walked up to it, wagging his tail as he 
went, and evidently showing that he acknowledged its 
likeness to his master. It is a half-length, as it is technic- 
ally but absurdly called ; that is to say, it gives all but 
the foot and ancle. To-morrow it goes to town, and 
will hang some months at Abbot's, when it will be sent 
to its due destination in Norfolk. 

I hope, or rather wish, that at Eartham I may recover 
that habit of study which, inveterate as it once seemed, I 
now seem to have lost — lost to such a degree that it is 
even painful to me to think of what it will cost me to 
acquire it again. 

Adieu ! my dear, dear Hayley ; God give us a happy 
meeting. Mary sends her love. She is in pretty good 
plight this morning, having slept well, and, for her part, 
has no fears at all about the journey. Ever yours, 

W. C. 



LETTERS FROM EARTHAM. 

TO THE REV. MR. GREATHEED. 

Earth AM, August 6^ i792' 

My dear Sir — Having first thanked you for your 
affectionate and acceptable letter, I will proceed, as well 
as I can, to answer your equally affectionate request that 
I would send you early news of our arrival at Eartham. 
Here we are in the most elegant mansion that I have ever 
inhabited, and surrounded by the most delightful pleasure- 
grounds that I h^ve ever seen ; but which, dissipated as 
my powers of thought are at present, I will not undertake 
to describe. It shall suffice me to say that they occupy 
three sides of a hill, which in Buckinghamshire might 
well pass for a mountain, and from the summit of which 
is beheld a most magnificent landscape bounded by the 
sea, and in one part by the Isle of Wight, which may 
also be seen plainly from the window of the library in 
which I am writing. 

It pleased God to carry us both through the journey 
with far less difficulty and inconvenience than I expected. 
I began it indeed with a thousand fears, and when we 
arrived the first evening at Bamet, found myself oppressed 
in .spirit to a degree that could hardly be exceeded. I 
saw Mrs. Unwin weary, as she might well be, and heard 
such noises, both wiUiin the house and without, that I 



LETTERS FROM EARTHAM. 267 

concluded she would get no rest. But I was mercifully 
disappointed. She rested, though not well, yet sufficiently ; 
and when we finished our next day's journey at Ripley, 
we were both in better condition, both of body and mind, 
than on the day preceding. At Ripley we found a quiet 
inn, that housed, as it happened, that night no company 
but ourselves. There we slept well, and rose perfectly 
refreshed. And except some terrors that I felt at passing 
over the Sussex hills by moonlight, met with little to 
complain of till we arrived about ten o'clock at Eartham. 
Here we are as happy as it is in the power of terrestrial 
good to make us. It is almost a Paradise in which we 
dwell ; and our reception has been the kindest that it was 
possible for friendship and hospitality to contrive. Our 
host mentions you with great respect, and bids me tell 
you that he esteems you highly. Mrs. Unwin, who is, I 
think, in some points already the better for her excursion, 
unites with mine her best compliments both to yourself 
and Mrs. Greatheed. I have much to see and enjoy 
before I can be perfectly apprised of all the delights of 
Eartham, and will therefore now subscribe myself yours, 
my dear sir, with great sincerity, W. C. 



TO MRS. COURTENAY. 

Eartham, August la, 1792. 

My DEAREST Catharina — Though I have travelled 
far, nothing did I see in my travels that surprised me 
half so agreeably as your kind letter; for high as my 
opinion of your good nature is, I had no hopes of hearing 
from you till I should have written first, — a pleasure 
which I intended to allow myself the first opportunity. 

After three days* confinement in a coach, and suffering 



268 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

as we went all that could be suffered from excessive heat 
and dust, we found ourselves late in the evening at the 
door of our friend Hayley. In every other respect the 
journey was extremely pleasant. At the "Mitre," in Bar- 
net, where we lodged the first evening, we found our friend 
Rose, who had walked thither from his house in Chancery 
Lane to meet us ; and at Kingston, where we dined the 
second day, I found my old and much valued friend 
General Cowper, whom I had not seen in thirty years, 
and but for this journey should never have seen again. 
Mrs. Unwin, on whose account I had a thousand fears 
before we set out, suffered as little from fatigue as m)rself, 
and begins, I hope, already to feel some beneficial effects 
from the air of Eartham, and the exercise that she takes 
in one of the most delightful pleasure-grounds in the 
world. They occupy three sides of a hill, lofty enough 
to command a view of the sea, which skirts the horizon 
to a length of many miles, with the Isle of Wight at the 
end of it. The inland scene is equally beautiful, consisting 
of a large and deep valley well cultivated, and enclosed 
by magnificent hills all crowned with wood. I had, for 
my part, no conception that a poet could be the owner 
of such a Paradise ; and his house is as elegant as his 
scenes are charming. 

But think not, my dear Catharina, that amidst all 
these beauties I shall lose the remembrance of the peace- 
ful but less splendid Weston. Your precincts will be as 
dear to me as ever when I return ; though when that 
day will arrive I know not, our host being determined, 
as I plainly see, to keep us as long as possible. Give 
my best love to your husband. Thank lum most kindly 
for his attention to the old bard of Greece, and pardon 
me that I do not send you now an epitaph for Fop. I 
am not sufficiently recollected to compose even a bagatelle 
at present ; but in due time you shall receive it. 



LETTERS FROM EARTHAM. 269 

Hayley, who will some time or other, I hope, see you 
at Weston, is already prepared to love you both, and 
being passionately fond of music, longs much to hear 
you. — Adieu 1 W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

Eartham, August 26, 1792. 
I KNOW not how it is, my dearest Coz, but in a new 
scene, and surrounded by strange objects, I find my 
powers of thinking dissipated to a degree that makes it 
difficult to me even to write a letter, and even a letter to 
you ; but such a letter as I can, I will, and have the 
fairest chance to succeed this morning, Hayley, Romney, 
Hayley*s son, and Beau, being all gone together to the 
sea for bathing. The sea, you must know, is nine miles 
off, so that unless stupidity prevent, I shall have oppor- 
tunity to write not only to you, but to poor Hurdis also, 
who is broken-hearted for the loss of his favourite sister, 
lately dead : and whose letter, giving an account of it, 
which I received yesterday, drew tears from the eyes of 
all our party. My only comfort respecting even yourself 
is, that you write in good spirits, and assure me that you 
are in a state of recovery ; otherwise I should mourn not 
only for Hurdis, but for myself, lest a certain event 
should reduce me, and in a short time too, to a situation 
as distressing as his; for though nature designed you 
only for my cousin, you have had a sister's place in my 
affections ever since I knew you. The reason is, I sup- 
pose, that having no sister, the daughter of my own 
mother, I thought it proper to have one, the daughter of 
yours. Certain it is, that I can by no means afford to 
lose you ; and that unless you will be upon honour with 
me, to give me always a true account of yourself, at least 



270 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

when we are not together, I shall always be unhappy, 
because always suspicious that you deceive me. 

Now for ourselves. I am, without the least dissimu- 
lation, in good health ; my spirits are about as good as 
you have ever seen them ; and if increase of appetite and 
a double portion of sleep be advantageous, such are the 
advantages that I have received from this migration. As 
to that gloominess of mind which I have had these twenty 
years, it cleaves to me even here ; and could I be trans- 
lated to Paradise, unless I left my body behind me, 
would cleave to me even there also. It is my companion 
for life, and nothing will ever divorce us. So much for 
myself. Mrs. Unwin is evidently the better for her jaunt, 
though by no means as she was before this last attack ; 
still wanting help when she would rise from her seat, 
and a support in walking ; but she is able to use more 
exercise than she coujthat home, and moves with rather 
a less tottering step, yod knows what He designs 
for me; but when I seeSt^se who are dearer to me 
than myself distempered and enfeebled, and myself as 
strong as in the days of my youth, I tremble for the 
solitude in which a few years may place me. I wish her 
and you to die before me, indeed, but not till I am more 
likely to follow immediately. Enough of this 1 

Romney has drawn me in crayons, and in the opinion 
of all here, with his best hand, and with the most exact 
resemblance possible. 

The seventeenth of September is the day on which I 
intend to leave Eartham. We shall then have been six 
weeks resident here ; a holiday time long enough for a 
man who has much to do. And now farewell 1 

W. C. 

F.S. — Hay ley, whose love for me seems to be truly that 
of a brother, has given me his picture, drawn by Rom- 
ney about fifteen years ago — an admirable likeness. 



LETTERS FROM EARTHAM. 27 1 



TO THE REV. MR. HURDIS. 

Earth AM, August 26, 1793. 

My DEAR Sir — Your kind but very affecting letter 
found me not at Weston, to which place it was directed, 
but in a bower of my friend Hayley*s garden, at Eartham, 
where I was sitting with Mrs. Unwin. We both knew 
the moment we saw it from whom it came; and ob- 
serving a red seal, both comforted ourselves that all was 
well at Burwash ; but we soon felt that we were called 
not to rejoice, but to mourn with you. We do indeed 
sincerely mourn with you ; and if it will afford you 
any consolation to know it, you may be assured that 
every eye here has testified what our hearts have suf- 
fered for you. Your loss is great, and your disposition 
I perfeive such as exposes you to feel the whole weight 
of it.L^L>yiU not add to your sorrow by a vain attempt 
to assuage it ; your own good sense and the piety of your 
principles will, of course, suggest to you the njost power- 
ful motives of acquiescence in the will of Godl You will 
be sure to recollect that the stroke, severe as it is, is not 
the stroke of an enemy, but of a Father ; and will find 
I trust hereafter that like a father He has done you good 
by it. Thousands have been able to say, and myself as 
loud as any of them, it has been good for me that I was 
afflicted ; but time is necessary to work us to this per- 
suasion, and in due time it shall be yours. Mr. Hayley, 
who tenderly sympathises with you, has enjoined me to 
send you as pressing an invitation as I can frame, to join 
me at this place. I have every motive to wish your con- 
sent, — both your benefit and my own, which I believe 
would be abundantly answered by your coming, ought to 
make me eloquent in such a cause. Here you will find 
silence and retirement in perfection, when you would 



2/2 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

seek them ; and here such company as I have no doubt 
would suit you, — all cheerful, but not noisy; and all 
alike disposed to love you : you and I seem to have 
here a fair opportunity of meeting. It were a pity we 
should be in the same county, and not come tc^ether. I 
am here till the seventeenth of September, an interval 
that will afford you time to make the necessary arrange- 
ments, and to gratify me at last with an interview which 
I have long desired. Let me hear from you soon, that 
I may have double pleasure, — the pleasure of expecting 
as well as that of seeing you. 

Mrs. Unwin, I thank God, though still a sufferer by 
her last illness, is much better, and has received con- 
siderable benefit by the air of Eartham. She adds to 
mine her affectionate compliments, and joins me and 
Hayley in this invitation. 

Mr. Romney is here, and a young man, a cousin of 
mine. I tell you who we are, that you may not be 
afraid of us. 

Adieu ! May the Comforter of all the afflicted who 
seek Him be yours ! God bless you. W. C. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

Eartham, September ^ 1792. 

My dearest Cousin — I determine, if possible, to 
send you one more letter, or at least, if possible, once 
more to send you something like one, before we leave 
Eartham. But I am in truth so unaccountably local in 
the use of my pen that, like the man in the fable, . who 
could leap well nowhere but at Rhodes, I seem incapable 
of writing at all except at Weston. This is, as I have 
already told you, a delightful place ; more beautiful scenery 



LETTERS FROM EARTHAM. 273 

I have never beheld nor expect to behold ; but the charms 
of it, uncommon as they are, have not in the least alien- 
ated my affections from Weston. The genius of that 
place suits me better ; it has an air of snug concealment, 
in which a disposition like mine feels itself peculiarly grati- 
fied ; whereas here I see from every window woods like 
forests, and hills like mountains — a wildness, in short, that 
rather increases my natural melancholy, and which, were 
it not for the agreeables I find within, would soon con- 
vince me that mere change of place can avail me little. 
Accordingly, I have not looked out for a house in Sussex, 
nor shall. 

The intended day of our departure continues tp be the 
seventeenth. I hope to reconduct Mrs. Unwin to the 
Lodge with her health considerably mended ; but it is 
in the article of speech chiefiy, and in her powers of 
walking, that she is sensible of much improvement. Her 
sight and her hand still fail her, so that she can neither 
read nor work ; mortifying circumstances both to her, 
who is never willingly idle. 

On the eighteenth I purpose to dine with the General, 
and to rest that night at Kingston ; but the pleasure I 
shall have in the interview will hardly be greater than 
the pain I shall feel at the end of it, for we shall part 
probably to meet no more. 

Johnny, I know, has told you that Mr. Hurdis is here. 
Distressed by the loss of his sister, he has renounced the 
place where she died for ever, and is about to enter on a 
new course of life at Oxford. You would admire him 
much. He is gentle in his manners, and delicate in his 
person, resembling our poor friend Unwin, both in face 
and figure, more than any one I have ever seen. But he 
has not, at least he has not at present, his vivacity. 

I have corresponded since I came here with Mrs. Cour- 
tenay, and had yesterday a very kind letter from her. 

T 



274 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Adieu, my dear ! may God bless you I Write to me as 
soon as you can after the twentieth. I shall then be at 
Weston, and indulging myself in the hope that I shall 
ere long see you there also. W. C. 



TO MRS. COURTENAY, WESTON UNDERWOOD. 

Eartham, September lo, 1792. 

My dear Catharina — I am not so uncourteous a 
knight as to leave your last kind letter, and the last I 
hope that I shall receive for a long time to come, without 
an attempt, at least, to acknowledge and to send you 
something in the shape of an answer to it ; but having 
been obliged to dose myself last night with laudanum, on 
account of a little nervous fever, to which I am always 
subject, and for which I find it the best remedy, I feel 
myself this morning particularly under the influence of 
Lethean vapours, and consequently in danger of being 
uncommonly stupid. 

You could hardly have sent me intelligence that would 
have gratified me more than that of my two dear friends, 
Sir John and Lady Throckmorton, having departed from 
Paris two days before the terrible loth of August. I 
have had many anxious thoughts on their account, and 
am truly happy to learn that they have sought a more 
peaceful region, while it was yet permitted them to do 
so. They will not, I trust, revisit those scenes of tumult 
and horror while they shall continue to merit that de- 
scription. We are here all of one mind respecting the 
cause in which the Parisians are engaged, wish them a 
free people, and as happy as they can wish themselves. 
But their conduct has not always pleased us. We are 



LETTERS FROM EARTHAM. 275 

shocked at their sanguinary proceedings, and begin to 
fear, myself in particular, that they will prove themselves 
unworthy, because incapable of enjo)ring it, of the in- 
estimable blessings of liberty. My daily toast is, Sobriety 
and Freedom to the French, for they seem as destitute 
of the former as they are eager to secure the latter. 

We still hold our purpose of leaving Eartham on the 
17th, and £^ain my fears on Mrs. Unwin's account begin 
to trouble me, but they are now not quite so reasonable 
as in the first instance. If she could beax the fatigue of 
travelling then, she is more equal to it at present, and 
supposing that nothing happens to alarm her, which is 
very probable, may be expected to reach Weston in 
much better condition than when she left it. Her im- 
provement, however, is chiefly in her looks and in the 
articles of speaking and walking, for she can neither rise 
from her chair without help, nor walk without support, 
nor read, nor use her needles. Give my love to the good 
Doctor, and make him acquainted with the state of his 
patient, since he, of all men, seems to have the best right 
to know it. 

I am proud that you are pleased with the epitaph I 
sent you, and shall be still prouder to see it perpetuated 
by the chisel. It is all that I have done since here I 
came, and all that I have been able to do. I wished, 
indeed, to have requited Romney for his well-drawn copy 
of me, in rhyme, and have more than once or twice 
attempted it, but I find, like the man in the fable, who 
could leap only at Rhodes, that verse is almost impossible 
to me except at Weston. Tell my friend George that I 
am every day mindful of him, and always love him, and 
bid him by no means to vex himself about the tardiness 
of Andrews. Remember me affectionately to William 
and to Pitcaim, whom I shall hope to find with you at 
my return, and should you see Mr. Buchanaw, lo Vvvcsv 



276 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

also. I have now charged you with commissions enow, 
and having added Mrs. Unwin's best compliments, and 
told you that I long to see you again, will conclude 
myself, my dear Catharina, most truly yours, 

Wm. Cowper. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 

TO WILLIAM HAYLEY, ESQ. 

Weston, September 21, 1792. 

My dear Hayley — Chaos himself, even the chaos 
of Milton, is not surrounded with more confusion, nor 
has a mind more completely in a hubbub, than I ex- 
perience at the presept moment. At our first arrival, 
after long absence, we find a hundred orders to servants 
necessary, a thousand things to be restored to their proper 
places, and an endless variety of minutiae to be adjusted, 
which, though individusJlly of little importance, are most 
momentous in the aggregate. In these circumstances 
I find m)rself so indisposed to writing, that, save to your- 
self, I would on no account attempt it ; but to you I will 
give such a recital as I can of all that has passed since I 
sent you that short note from Kingston, knowing that if 
it be a perplexed recital, you will consider the cause, and 
pardon it. I will begin with a remark in which I am 
inclined to think you will agree with me, that there is 
sometimes more true heroism passing in a corner, and on 
occasions that make no noise in the world, than has often 
been exercised by those whom that world esteems her 
greatest heroes, and on occasions the most illustrious : I 
hope so at least ; for all the heroism I have to boast, and 
all the opportunities I have of displaying any, aie csC -a. 



278 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

private nature. After writing the note, I immediately 
began to prepare for my appointed visit to Ham; but 
the struggles that I had with my own spirit, labouring as 
I did under the most dreadftd dejection, are never to be 
told. I would have given the world to have been ex- 
cused. I went, however, and carried my point against 
myself with a heart riven asunder : I have reasons for all 
this anxiety, which I cannot relate now. The visit, 
however, passed off well, and we returned in the dark to 
Kingston; — I, with a lighter heart than I had known 
since my departure from Eartham, and Mary too, for 
she had suffered hardly less than m)^elf, and chiefly on 
my account. That night we rested well in our inn, and 
at twenty minutes after eight next morning set off for 
London ; exactly at ten we reached Mr. Rose's door ; 
we drank a dish of chocolate with him, and proceeded, 
Mr. Rose riding with us as far as St. Alban's. From 
this time we met with no impediment. In the dark, and 
in a storm, at eight at night, we found ourselves at our 
own back door. Mrs. Unwin was very near slipping out 
of the chair in which she was taken from the chaise, but 
at last was landed safe. We all have had a good night, 
and are all well this morning. God bless you, my dearest 
brother. W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

Weston, October Zy i79». 

My dear Hayley — A bad night, succeeded by an 
east wind, and a sky all in sables, have such an effect on 
my spirits, that if I did not consult my own comfort more 
than yours, I should not write to-day, for I shall not 
entertain you much ; yet your letter, though containing 
no very pleasant tidings, has afforded me some relief. It 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 279 

tells me, indeed, that you have been dispirited yourself, 
and that poor little Tom, the faithful squire of my Mary, 
has been seriously indisposed; all this grieves me, but 
then there is a warmth of heart, and a kindness in it, 
that do me good. I will endeavour not to repay you in 
notes of sorrow and despondence, though all my sprightly 
chords seem broken. In truth, one day excepted, I 
have not seen the day when I have been cheerful since 
I left you. My spirits, I think, are almost constantly 
lower than they were ; the approach of winter is perhaps 
the cause ; and if it is, I have nothing better to expect 
for a long time to come. 

Yesterday was a day of assignation with myself, the 
day of which I said some days before it came. When that 
day comes I will begin my dissertations. Accordingly, 
when it came I prepared to do so; filled a letter -case 
with fresh paper, furnished myself with a pretty good 
pen, and replenished my ink-bottle ; but partly from one 
cause, and partly from another, chiefly, however, from 
distress and dejection, after writing and obliterating about 
six lines, in the composition of which I spent near an 
hour, I was obliged to relinquish the attempt. An 
attempt so unsuccessful could have no other effect than 
to dishearten me, and it has had that effect to such a 
d^ree that I know not when I shall find cours^e to 
make another. At present I shall certainly abstain, since 
at present I cannot well afford to expose myself to the 
danger of a fresh mortification. 

Your kind postscript is just arrived, and gives me great 
pleasure. When I cannot see you myself it seems some 
comfort, however, that you have been seen by another 
known to me, and who will tell me in a few days that 
he has seen you. Your wishes to disperse my melan- 
choly would, I am sure, prevail, did that event depend 
on the warmth and sincerity with which you frame them ; 



28o LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

but it has baffled both wishes and prayers, and those the 
most fervent that could be made, so many years, that the 
case seems hopeless. But no more of this at present. 

Your verses to Austen are as sweet as the honey that 
they accompany, — kind, friendly, witty, and el^ant. 
When shall I be able to do the like ? Perhaps when my 
Mary, like your Tom, shall cease to be an invalid, I may 
recover a power at least to do something. I sincerely 
rejoice in the dear little man's restoration. My Mary 
continues, I hope, to mend a little. W. C. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

November Sy 1792. 

My dearest Johnny — I have done nothing since you 
went except that I have finished the sonnet which I told 
you I had begun, and sent it Hayley, who is well pleased 
therewith^ and has by this time transmitted it to whom it 
most concerns. 

I would not give the algebraist sixpence for his en- 
comiums on my Task, if he condemns my Homer, which, 
I know, in point of language is equal to it, and in variety 
of numbers superior. But the character of the former 
having been some years established, he follows the 
general cry ; and should Homer establish himself as well, 
and I trust he will hereafter, I shall have his warm suf- 
frage for that also. But if not it is no matter. Swift 
says somewhere — "There are a few good judges of 
poetry in the world, who lend their taste to those who 
have none," and your man of figures is probably one of 
the borrowers. 

Adieu — ^in great haste. Our united love attends your- 
self and yours, whose I am most truly and affectionately 

Wm. Cowper. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 28 1 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

Weston, November 9, 1792. 

My DEAR Friend — I wish that I were as industrious 
and as much occupied as you, though in a different way ; 
but it is not so with me. Mrs. Unwin's great debility 
(who is not yet able to move without assistance) is of 
itself a hinderance such as would effectually disable me. 
Till she can work and read, and fill up her time as usual 
(all which is at present entirely out of her power), I may 
now and then find time to write a letter, but I shall write 
nothing more. I cannot sit with my pen in my hand 
and my books before me, while she is in effect in solitude, 
silent, and looking at the fire. To this hinderance that 
other has been added, of which you are already aware, 
a want of spirits, such as I have never known, when 
I was not absolutely laid by, since I commenced an 
author. How long I shall be continued in these uncom- 
fortable circumstances is known only to Him who, as He 
will, disposes of us all. I may be yet able, perhaps, to 
prepare the first book of the Paradise Lost for the press 
before it will be wanted ; and Johnson himself seems 
to think there will be no haste for the second. But 
poetry is my favourite employment, and all my poetical 
operations are, in the meantime, suspended, for while a 
work to which I have bound myself remains unaccom- 
plished I can do nothing else. 

Johnson's plan of prefixing my phiz to the new edition 
of my Poems is by no means a pleasant one to me, and 
so I told him in a letter I sent him from Eartham, in 
which I assured him that my objections to it would not 
be easily surmounted. But if you judge that it may 
really have an effect in advancing the sale, I would not 
be so squeamish as to suffer the spirit of prudery to prevail 



282 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

in me to his disadvantage. Somebody told an author, I 
forget whom, that there was more vanity in refusing his 
picture than in granting it, on which he instantly com- 
plied. I do not perfectly feel all the force of the argu- 
ment, but it shall content me that he did. 

I do most sincerely rejoice in the success of your 
publication, and have no doubt that my prophecy con- 
cerning your success in greater matters will be fulfilled. ^ 
We are naturally pleased when our friends approve what 
we approve ourselves ; how much, then, must I be pleased 
when you speak so kindly of Johnny I I know him to be 
all that you think him, and love him entirely. 

Adieu ! We expect you at Christmas, and shaU, there- 
fore, rejoice when Christmas comes. Let nothing inter- 
fere. Ever yours, W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

Novemher ii, 1792, 

My dear Friend — I am not so insensible of your 
kindness in making me an exception from the number of 
your correspondents to whom you forbid the hope of 
hearing from you till your present labours are ended, as 
to make you wait longer for an answer to your last ; which 
indeed would have had its answer before this time had it 
been possible for me to write. But so many have demands 
upon me of a similar kind, and while Mrs. Unwin con- 
tinues an invalid my opportunities of writing are so few, 
that I am constrained to incur a long arrear to some with 
whom I would wish to be punctual. She can at present 
neither work nor read ; and till she can do both, and 

1 This alludes to Mr. Rose's edition of Decisions of the English 
Courts. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 283 

amuse herself as usual, my own amusements of the pen 
must be suspended. 

I, like you, have a work before me, and a work to 
which I should be glad to address myself in earnest, but 
cannot do it at present. When the opportunity comes I 
shall, like you, be under a necessity of interdicting some 
of my usual correspondents, and of shortening my letters 
to the excepted few. Many letters and much company 
are incompatible with authorship, and the one as much 
as the other. It will be long, I hope, before the world 
is put in possession of a publication which you design 
should be posthumous. 

Oh for the day when your expectation of my complete 
deliverance shall be verified ! At present it seems very 
remote ; so distant indeed that hardly the faintest streak 
of it is visible in my horizon. The glimpse with which 
I was favoured about a month ago has never been repeated, 
and the depression of my spirits has. The future appears 
gloomy as ever ; and I seem to myself to be scrambling 
always in the dark, among rocks and precipices, without 
a guide, but with an enemy ever at my heels prepared to 
push me headlong. Thus I have spent twenty years, but 
thus I shall not spend twenty years more. Long ere that 
period arrives, the grand question concerning my ever- 
lasting weal or woe will be decided. A question that 
seems to have interested the enemy of mankind peculiarly, 
for against none, so far as I have learned by reading or 
otherwise, has he ever manifested such fury as I have ex- 
perienced at his hands ; yet all that I have felt is little in 
comparison with what he often threatens me, so that even 
\iQjl^ omnipotence to save is a consideration that affords 
me no comfort while I seem to have a foe omnipotent to 
destroy. yThis may appear to you strange language, yet 
is it not altoget<her unwarranted by Scripture. Tell me 
who are the Principalities and Powers in heavenly places 



284 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

spoken of by Saint Paul ? Against them we have to war ; 
and they cannot be the angels who have fallen from their 
first estate, for they are said to have been long since 
thrust down in perdition, and to be bound in chains of 
darkness until the judgment of the great day. I recollect, 
and so do you perhaps, what was the opinion of Dr. Conyers 
on this subject, and it will be a pleasure to me to know 
yours. If my enemy's testimony could weigh with you 
as much as it does sometimes with me, you would not 
hesitate long in your answer, for he has a thousand times 
in my hearing boasted himself supreme. 

Adieu ! my dear friend. I have exhausted my time 
though not filled my paper. Our united thanks are due 
for some excellent skate, and with our united affectionate 
remembrances to yourself and Miss Catlett, I remain truly 
yours, Wm. Cowper. 

I enclose Nat*s receipt. The fourpence purchased a 
loaf for a hungry pauper. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

Weston, November 20, 1792. 

My dearest Johnny — I give you many thanks for 
your rhymes, and your verses without rhjrme; for your 
poetical dialogue between wood and stone ; between 
Homer*s head and the head of Samuel ; kindly intended, 
I know well, for my amusement, and that amused me 
much. 

The successor of the clerk defunct, for whom I used 
to write mortuary verses, arrived here this morning with 
a recommendatory letter from Joe Rye and a humble 
petition of his own, entreating me to assist him as I had 
assisted his predecessor. I have undertaken the service. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 285 

although with no little reluctance, being involved in many 
arrears on other subjects, and having very little depend- 
ence at present on my ability to write at aU. I proceed 
exactly as when you were here, — a letter now and then 
before breakfast, and the rest of my time all holiday ; if 
holiday it may be called, that is spent chiefly in moping 
and musing and ^^forecasting the fashion of uncertain 
evils." 

The fever on my spirits has harassed me much, and I 
have never had so good a night nor so quiet a rising 
since you went as on this very morning, a relief that I 
account particularly seasonable and propitious, because I 
had, in my intentions, devoted this morning to you, and 
could not have fulfilled those intentions had I been as 
spiritless as I generally am. 

I am glad that Johnson is in no haste for Milton, for I 
seem myself not likely to address m)^elf presently to that 
concern with any prospect of success ; yet something, now 
and then, like a secret whisper, assures and encourages 
me that it will yet be done. W. C 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

December 1, 1792. 
I AM truly glad, my dearest Coz, that the waters 
of Cheltenham have done thee good, and wish ardently 
that those of Bath may establish thy health, and prove 
the means of prolonging it many years, even till thou 
shalt become what thou wast called at a very early age, 
an old wench indeed. I have been a pauvre miserable 
ever since I came from Eartham, and was little better 
while there, so that whatever motive may incline me to 
travel again hereafter, it will not be the hope that my 
spirits will be much the better for it. Neither was Mrs. 



286 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Unwinds health so much improved by that frisk of ours 
into Sussex as I had hoped and expected. She is, how- 
ever, tolerably well, but very far indeed from having 
recovered the effects of her last disorder. 

My birthday (the sixty-first that I have numbered) has 
proved for once a propitious day to me, for on that day 
my spirits began to amend, my nights became less hideous, 
and my days have been such of course. 

I have heard nothing from Joseph, and having been 
always used to hear from him in November, am reduced 
to the dire necessity of supposing with you that he is 
heinously offended. Being in want of money, however, 
I wrote to him yesterday, and a letter which ought to 
produce a friendly answer ; but whether it will or not is 
an affair at present of great uncertainty. Walter Bagot 
is offended too, and wonders that I would have any con- 
nexion with so bad a man as the author of the Essay on 
Old Maids must necessarily be I Poor man ! he has five 
sisters, I think, in that predicament, which makes his 
resentment rather excusable. Joseph, by the way, has 
two, and perhaps may be proportionally influenced by 
that consideration. Should that be the case, I have 
nothing left to do but to wish them all good husbands, 
since the reconciliation of my two friends seems closely 
connected with that contingency. 

In making the first advances to your sister, you have 
acted like yourself, that is to say, like a good and affec- 
tionate sister, and will not, I hope, lose your reward. 
Rewarded in another world you will be no doubt ; but I 
should hope that you will not be altogether unrecompensed 
in this. Thou hast a heart, I know, that cannot endure 
to be long at enmity with any one, and were I capable of 
using thee never so ill, I am sure that in time you would 
sue to me for a pardon. Thou dost not want fire, but 
meekness is predominant in thee. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 287 

I was never so idle in my life, and never had so much 
to do. God knows when this will end ; but I think of 
bestirring myself soon, and of putting on my Miltonic 
trammels once again. That once done, I shall not, I 
hope, put them off till the work is finished. I have 
written nothing lately but a sonnet to Romney, and a 
mortuary copy of verses for the town of Northampton, 
having been applied to by the new clerk for that purpose. 

Johnson designs handsomely ; you must pardon Johnson 
and receive him into your best graces. He purposes to 
publish, together with my Homer, a new edition of my 
two volumes of Poems, and to make me a present of the 
entire profits. They are to be handsome quartos, with an 
engraving of Abbot's picture of me prefixed, I have left 
myself neither time nor room for politics. 

The French are a vain and childish people, and conduct 
themselves on this grand occasion with a levity and 
extravagance nearly akin to madness ; but it would have 
been better for Austria and Prussia to let them alone. 
All nations have a right to choose their own mode of I 
government, and the sovereignty of the people is a ' 
doctrine that evinces itself; for whenever the people 
choose to be masters they always are so, and none can 
hinder them. God grant that we may have no revolution . 
here ; but unless we have a reform we certainly shall. ^ 
Depend upon it, my dear, the hour is come when power 
founded in patronage and corrupt majorities must govern \ 
this land no longer. Concession too must be made to | 
dissenters of every denomination. They have a right to j 
them, a right to all the privileges of Englishmen, and ! 
sooner or later, by fair means or by force, they will have i 
them. 

Adieu I my dearest Coz. I have only time to add Mrs. 
U.'s most affectionate remembrances, and to conclude 
myself ever thine, Wm. Cowper. 



288 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

Mr. and Mrs. Rose came on the twenty-second, and 
Johnny with them ; the former to stay ten days. It is 
strange that anybody should suspect Mr. Smith of having 
been assisted by me. None writes more rapidly or more 
correctly — twenty pages in a morning, which I have often 
read and heard read at night, and found not a word to 
alter. This moment comes a very kind letter from 
Joseph. Sephus tells me I may expect to see very soon 
the strongest assurances from the people of property of 
every description to support the king and present constitu- 
tion. In this I do most sincerely rejoice, as you will. 
He wishes to know my political opinions, and -he shall 
most truly. 



TO JOHN JOHNSON, ESQ. 

January 31, 1793. 
lo PcEan! 

My dearest Johnny — Even as you foretold, so it 
came to pass. On Tuesday I received your letter, and 
on Tuesday came the pheasants ; for which I am indebted 
in many thanks, as well as Mrs. Unwin, both to your 
kindness and to your kind friend, Mr. Copeman. 

In Copeman's ear this truth let Echo tell, 
' Immortal bards like mortal pheasants' well. 
And when his clerkship's out I wish him herds 
Of golden clients for his golden birds.' 

Our friends the Courtenajrs have never dined with us 
since their marriage, because we have never asked them ; 
and we have never asked them because poor Mrs. Unwin 
is not so equal to the task of providing for and entertaining 
company as before this last illness. But this is no objection 
to the arrival here of a bustard ; rather it is a cause for 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 289 

which we shall be particularly glad to see the monster. 
It will be a handsome present to them. So let the 
bustard come, as the Lord Mayor of London said to the 
hare when he was hunting, ** Let her come, a' God*s 
name ; I am not afraid of her. " 

Adieu I my dear cousin and caterer. My eyes are terribly 
bad, else I had much more to say to you. — Ever affection- 
ately yours, Wm. Cowper. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

February 10, 1793. 

My pens are all split, and my ink-glass is dry/l 
.Neither wit, common-sense, nor ideas have I. I 

In vai^'S^ it been that I have made several attempts 
to write since I came from Sussex ; unless more comfort- 
able days arrive than I have confidence to look for, there 
is an end of all writing with me. I have no spirits ; when , 
the Rose came I was obliged to prepare for his coming by a 
nightly dose of laudanum — ^twelve drops suffice ; but with- 
out them I am devoured by melancholy. 

Apropos of the Rose I His wife, in her political notions, 
is the exact counterpart of yourself— loyal in the extreme. 
Therefore, if you find her thus inclined when you become 
acquainted with her, you must not place her resemblance 
of yourself to the account of her admiration of you, for 
she is your likeness ready made. In fact, we are all of 
one mind about government matters ; and, notwithstanding 
your opinion, the Rose is himself a Whig, and I am a 
Whig, and you, my dear, are a Tory, and all the Tories 
now-a-days call all the Whigs Republicans. How the 
deuce you came to be a Tory is best known to yourself; 
you have to answer for this novelty to the shades of your 
ancestors, who were always Whigs ever since we had any. 
Adieu ! W. C, 

u 



290 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE REV. MR. HURDIS. 

Weston, February 23, 1793. 

My dear Sir — My eyes, which have long been in- 
flamed, will hardly serve me for Homer, and oblige me 
to make all my letters short. You have obliged me 
much by sending me so speedily the remainder of your 
notes. I have begun with them again, and find them, as 
before, very much to the purpose. More to the purpose 
they could not have been, had you been poetry professor 
already. I rejoice sincerely in the prospect you have of 
that office, which, whatever may be your own thoughts 
of the matter, I am sure you will fill with great sufficiency. 
Would that my interest and power to serve you were 
greater I One string to my bow I have, and one only, 
which shall not be idle for want of my exertions. I 
thank you likewise for your very entertaining notices and 
remarks in the natural way. The hurry in which I write 
would not suffer me to send you many in return, had I 
many to send, but only two or three present themselves. 

Frogs will feed on worms. I saw a frog gathering 
into his gullet an earth-worm as long as himself; it cost 
him time and labour, but at last he succeeded. 

Mrs. Unwin and I, crossing a brook, saw from the 
foot-bridge somewhat at the bottom of the water which 
had the appearance of a flower. Observii^ it attentively, 
we found that it consisted of a circular assemblage of 
minnows ; their heads all met in a centre, and their tails 
diverging at equal distances, and being elevated above 
their heads, gave them the appearance of a flower half 
blown. One was longer than the rest ; and as often as 
a straggler came in sight, he quitted his place to pursue 
him, and having driven him away, he returned to it 
again, no other minnow offering to take it in his absence. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 29 1 

This we saw him do several times. The object that had 
attached them all was a dead minnow, which they seemed 
to be devouring. 

After a very rainy day, I saw on one of the flower- 
borders what seemed a long hair, but it had a waving, 
twining motion. Considering more nearly, I found it 
alive, and endued with spontaneity, but could not dis- 
cover at the ends of it either head or tail, or any 
distinction of parts. I carried it into the house, when 
the air of a warm room dried and killed it presently. 

W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN JOHNSON. 

Weston, A^l 11, 1793. 
My DEAREST Johnny — To do a kind thing, and in a 
kind manner, is a double kindness, and no man is more 
addicted to both than you, or more skilful in contriving 
them. Your plan to surprise me agreeably succeeded to 
admiration. It was only the day before yesterday that, 
while we walked after dinner in the orchard, Mrs. Unwin 
between Sam and me, hearing the hall clock, I observed 
a great difference between that and ours, and began im- 
mediately to lament, as I had often done, that there was 
not a sun-dial in all Weston to ascertain the true time 
for us. My complaint was long, and lasted till, having 
turned into the grass walk, we reached the new building 
at the end of it, where we sat awhile and reposed our- 
selves. In a few minutes we returned by the way we 
came, when what think you was my astonishment to see 
what I had not seen before, though I had passed close by 
it, a smart sun-dial mounted on a smart stone pedestal I 
I assure you it seemed the effect of conjuration. I 
stopped short and exclaimed — "Why, here is a sun-dial, 
and upon our ground ! How is this ? Tell me, Sam, 



292 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

how it came here I Do you know anything about it?" 
At first I really thought (that is to say, as soon as I 
could think at all) that this factotum of mine, Sam 
Roberts, having often heard me deplore the want of one, 
had given orders for the supply of that want himself, with- 
out my knowledge, and was half pleased and half offended. 
But he soon exculpated himself by imputing the fact to 
you. It was brought up to Weston, it seems, about 
noon ; but Andrews stopped the cart at the blacksmith's, 
whence he sent to inquire if I was gone for my walk. 
As it happened I walked not till two o'clock. So there 
it stood waiting till I should go forth, and was introduced 
before my return. Fortunately, too, I went out at the 
church end of the village, and consequently saw nothing 
of it. How I could possibly pass it without seeing it, 
when it stood in the walk, I know not, but certain it is 
that I did. And where I shall fix it now I know as 
little. It cannot stand between the two gates, the place 
of your choice, as I understand from Samuel, because the 
hay-cart must pass that way in the season. But we are 
now busy in winding the walk all round the orchard, and 
in doing so shall doubtless stumble at last upon some 
open spot that will suit it. 

There it shall stand, while I live, a constant monument 
of your kindness. 

I have this moment finished the twelfth book of the 
Odyssey; and I read the Iliad io Mrs. Unwin every evening. 

The effect of this reading is, that I still spy blemishes, 
something at least that I can mend ; so Uiat, after all, 
the transcript of alterations, which you and George have 
made, will not be a perfect one. It would be fooHsh to 
forego an opportunity of improvement for such a reason : 
neither will I. It is ten o'clock, and I must breakfast. 
Adieu, therefore, my dear Johnny I Remember your ap- 
pointment to see us in October. — Ever yours, W.C. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 293 



TO THE REV. WALTER BAGOT. 

Weston, May 4, 1793. 

My dear Friend — ^While your sorrow for our com- 
mon loss was fresh in your mind I would not write, lest 
a letter on so distressing a subject should be too painful 
both to you and me; and now that I seem to have 
reached a proper time for doing it, the multiplicity of 
my literary business will hardly stfTord me leisure. Both 
you and I have this comfort when deprived of those we 
love : at our time of life we have every reason to believe 
that the deprivation cannot be long. Our sun is setting 
too ; and when the hour of rest arrives we shall rejoin 
your brother, and many whom we have tenderly loved, 
our forerunners into a better country. 

I will say no more on a theme which it will be better 
perhaps to treat with brevity ; and because the introduc- 
tion of any other might seem a transition too violent, I 
will only add, that Mrs. Unwin and I are about as well 
as we at any time have been within the last year. — Truly 
yours, W. C. 



TO THOMAS PARK, ESQ. 

May 17, 1793. 

Dear Sir — It has not been without frequent self- 
reproach that I have so long omitted to answer your last 
very kind and most obliging letter. I am by habit and 
inclination extremely punctual in the discharge of such 
arrears, and it is only through necessity, and under con- 
straint of various indispensable engagements of a different 
kind, that I am become of late much otherwise. 

I have never seen Chapman's translation of Hornet^ 



294 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

and will not refuse your offer of it, unless by accepting 

it I shall deprive you of a curiosity that you cannot 

easily replace. The line or two which you quote from 

him, except that the expression "a well written soul" 

has the quaintness of his times in it, do him credit. He 

cannot surely be the same Chapman who wrote a poem, 

I think, on the battle of Hochstadt, in which, when I 

was a very young man, I remember to have seen the 

following lines : 

" Think of two thousand gentlemen at least, 
And each man mounted on his capering beast, 
Into the Danube they were pushed by shoals," etc etc. 

These are lines that could not fail to impress the 
memory, though not altogether in the Homerican style 
of battle. 

I am, as you say, a hermit, and probably an irre- 
claimable one, having a horror of London that I cannot 
express, nor indeed very easily account for. Neither am I 
much less disinclined to migration in general. I did no little 
violence to my love of home last summer when I paid 
Mr. Hayley a visit, and in truth was principally induced 
to the journey by a hope that it might be useful to Mrs. 
Unwin ; who, however, derived so little benefit from it 
that I purpose for the future to avail myself of the 
privilege my years may reasonably claim, by compelling 
my younger friends to visit me. But even this is a point 
which I cannot well compass at present, both because I 
am too busy, and because poor Mrs. Unwin is not able 
to bear the fatigue of company. Should better da)rs 
arrive, days of more leisure to me, and of some health to 
her, I shall not fail to give you notice of the change, and 
shall then hope for the pleasure of seeing you at Weston. 

The epitaph you saw is on the tomb of the same Mr. 
Unwin to whom the Tirocinium is inscribed, the son 
of the lady above mentioned. By the desire of his 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 295 

executors I wrote a Latin one, which they approved, but 
it was not approved by a relation of the deceased, and 
therefore was not used. He objected to the mention I 
had made in it of his mother having devoted him to the 
service of God in his infancy. She did it, however, and 
not in vain, as I wrote my epitaph. Who wrote the 
English one I know not. 

The poem called the " Slave " is not mine, nor have I 
ever seen it. I wrote two on the subject — one entitled 
** The Negro's Complaint," and the other ** The Morning 
Dream." With thanks for all your kindness, and the 
patience you have with me, I remain, dear sir, sincerely 
yours, W. C. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

June 12, 1793. 

My DEAR Friend — You promise to be contented with 
a short line, and a short one you must have, hurried over 
in the little interval I have happened to find between the 
conclusion of my morning task and breakfast. Study 
has this good effect at least ; it makes me an early riser, 
who might otherwise, perhaps, be as much given to 
dozing as my readers. 

The scanty opportunity I have, I shall employ in 
telling you what you principally wish to be told — the 
present state of mine and Mrs. Unwin's health. In her 
I cannot perceive any alteration for the better; and 
must be satisfied, I believe, as indeed I have great 
reason to be, if she does not alter for the worse. She 
uses the orchard walk daily, but always supported be- 
tween two, and is still unable to employ herself as 
formerly. But she is cheerful, seldom in much pain, 
and has always strong confidence in the mercy and 
faithfulness of God 



296 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

As to myself, I have always the same song to sing — 
well m body, but sick in spirit : sick, nigh unto death. 

" Seasons return, but not to me returns 
God, or the sweet approach of heavenly day, 
Or sight of cheering truth, or pardon seal'd, 
Or joy, or hope, or Jesus' face divine ; 
But cloud," etc. 

I could easily set my complaint to Milton's tune, and 
accompany him through the whole passage, on the sub- 
ject of a blindness more deplorable than his ; but time 
fails me. 

I feel great desire to see your intended publication ; a 
desire which the manner in which Mr. Bull speaks of it, 
who called here lately, has no tendency to allay. I 
believe I forgot to thank you for your last poetical 
present : not because I was not much pleased with it, 
but I write always in a hurry, and in a hurry must now 
conclude myself, with our united love, yours, my dear 
friend, most sincerely, Wm. Cowper. 



TO THOMAS PARK, ESQ. 

W. U.,/«(kxS»X793. 

Dear Sir — Within these few days I have received, 
by favour of Miss Knapps, your acceptable present of 
Chapman's translation of the Ilicid, I know not whether 
the book be a rarity, but a curiosity it certainly is. I 
have as yet seen but little of it, — enough, however, to 
make me wonder that any man, with so little taste for 
Homer or apprehension of his manner, should think it 
worth while to undertake the laborious task of translating 
him; the hope of pecuniary advantage may perhaps 
account for it. His information, I fear, was not much 
better than his verse, for I have consulted him in one 
passage of some difficulty, and find him giving sense of 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 297 

his own not at all warranted by the words of Homer. 
Pope sometimes does this, and sometimes omits the 
difficult part entirely. I can boast of having done 
neither, though it has cost me infinite pains to exempt 
myself firom the necessity. 

I have seen a translation by Hobbes, which I prefer 
for its greater clumsiness. Many years have passed since 
I saw it, but it made me laugh immoderately. Poetry 
that is not good can only make amends for that deficiency 
by being ridiculous; and because the translation of 
Hobbes has at least this recommendation, I shall be 
obliged to you, should it happen to fall in your way, if 
you would be so kind as to procure it for me. The only 
edition of it I ever saw (and perhaps there never was 
another) was a very thick i2mo., both print and paper 
bad, a sort of book that would be sought in vain, perhaps, 
anywhere but on a stall. 

When you saw Lady Hesketh you saw the relation of 
mine with whom I have been more intimate, even from 
childhood, than any other. She has seen much of the 
world, understands it well, and, having great natural 
vivacity, is of course one of the most agreeable of com- 
panions. 

I have now arrive^ almost at a close of my labours on 
the Iliad^ and have left nothing behind me, I believe, 
which I shall wish to alter on any future occasion. In 
about a fortnight or three weeks I shall begin to do the 
same for the Odyssey^ and hope to be able to perform it 
while the Iliad is in printing. Then Milton will demand 
all my attention, and when I shall find opportunity 
either to revise your MSS. or to write a poem of my 
own, which I have in contemplation, I can hardly say. 
Certainly not till both these tasks are accomplished. — 
I remain, dear sir, with many thanks for your kind 
present, sincerely yours, W. C. 



298 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

TO MRS. CHARLOTTE SMITH. 

Weston, July 25, 1793. 

My dear Madam — Many reasons concurred to make 
me impatient for the arrival of your most acceptable 
present, and among them was the fear lest you should, 
perhaps, suspect me of tardiness in acknowledging so 
great a favour, — a fear that, as often as it prevailed, dis- 
tressed me exceedingly. At length I have received it, 
and my little bookseller assures me that he sent it the 
very day he got it ; by some mistake, however, the waggon 
brought it instead of the coach, which occasioned a delay 
that I could ill afford. 

It came this morning about an hour ago; consequently 
I have not had time to peruse the poem, though you 
may be sure I have found enough for the perusal of the 
Dedication. I have in fact given it three readings, and 
in each have found increasing pleasure. 

I am a whimsical creature ; when I write for the public, 
I write, of course, with a desire to please — ^in other words, 
to acquire fame, and I labour accordingly ; but when I 
find that I have succeeded, feel myself alarmed, and 
ready to shrink from the acquisition. 

This I have felt more than once, and when I saw my 
name at the head of your Dedication I felt it again ; but 
the consummate delicacy of your praise soon convinced 
me that I might spare my blushes, and that the demand 
was less upon my modesty than my gratitude. Of that 
be assured, dear madam, and of the truest esteem and 
respect of your most obliged and affectionate humble 
servant, W. C. 

P,S. — I should have been much grieved to have let slip 
this opportunity of thanking you for your charming son- 
nets, and my two most agreeable old friends Monimia 
and Orlando. 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 299 



TO THE REV. JOHN JOHNSON. 

August a, 1793. 

My dearest Johnny — The Bishop of Norwich has 
won my heart by his kind and liberal behaviour to you, 
and if I knew him, I would tell him so. 

I am glad that your auditors find your voice strong, 
and your utterance distinct ; glad, too, that your doctrine 
has hitherto made you no enemies. You have a gracious 
Master, who, it seems, will not suffer you to see war in 
the beginning. It will be a wonder, however, if you do 
not, sooner or later, find out that sore place in every 
heart which can ill endure the touch of apostolic doctrine. 
Somebody will smart in his conscience, and you will hear 
of it. I say not this, my dear Johnny, to terrify, but to 
prepare you for that which is likely to happen, and 
which, troublesome as it may prove, is yet devoutly to 
be wished ; for in general, there is little good done by 
preachers till the world b^ns to abuse them. But un- 
derstand me aright, — I do not mean that you should 
give them unnecessary provocation by scolding and 
railing at them, as some, more zealous than wise, are 
apt to do. That were to deserve their anger. No; 
there is no need of it. The self-abasing doctrines of the 
gospel will of themselves create you enemies : but re- 
member this for your comfort, they will also, in due time, 
transform them into friends, and make them love you as 
if they were your own children. God give you many 
such ; as, if you are faithful to His cause, I trust He 
Willi 

Sir John and Lady Throckmorton have lately arrived 
in England, and are now at the Hall. They have brought 
me from Rome several engravings on Odyssey subjects by 
Flaxman, whom you have heard Hayley celebrate. They 



30O LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

are very fine, very much in the antique style, and a pre- 
sent from the Dowager Lady Spencer. Ever yours, 

W. C 



TO MRS. COURTENAY. 

Weston, August 20, 1793. 

My dearest Catharina is too reasonable, I know, to 
expect news from me, who live on the outside of the 
world, and know nothing that passes within it. The 
best news is, that though you are gone, you are not gone 
for ever, as once I supposed you were, and said that we 
should probably meet no more. Some news, however, 
we have; but then I conclude that you have already 
received it from the Doctor, and that thought almost 
deprives me of all courage to relate it. On the evening 
of the feast. Bob Archer's house affording, I suppose, the 
best room for the purpose, all the lads and lasses who 
felt themselves disposed to dance assembled there. Long 
time they danced, at least long time they did something 
a little like it ; when at last the company having retired, 
the fiddler asked Bob for a lodging. Bob replied "that 
his beds were all full of his own family ; but, if he chose 
it, he would show him a haycock, where he might sleep 
as sound as in any bed whatever." So forth they went 
together, and when they reached the place the fiddler 
knocked down Bob, and demanded his money. But, 
happily for Bob, though he might be knocked down, and 
actually was so, yet he could not possibly be robbed, 
having nothing. The fiddler, therefore, having amused 
himself with kicking him and beating him as he lay, as 
long as he saw good, left him, and has never been heard 
of since, nor inquired after indeed, being, no doubt, the 
last man in the world whom Bob wishes to see again. 

By a letter from Hayley to-day I learn that Flaxman, 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 30I 

to whom we are indebted for those Odyssey figures which 
Lady Frog brought over, has almost finished a set for 
the Iliad also. I should be glad to embellish my Homer 
with them, but neither my bookseller nor I shall probably 
choose to risk so expensive an ornament on a work whose 
reception with the public is at present doubtfiil. 

Adieu, my dearest Catharina. Give my best love to 
your husband. Come home as soon as you can, and 
accept our united very best wishes. W. C. 

TO WILLIAM HAYLEY, ESQ. 

Weston, October 5, 1793. 

My good intentions towards you, my dearest brother, 
are continually fiiistrated ; and, which is most provoking, 
not by such engagements and avocations as have a right 
to my attention, such as those to my Mary, and to the 
old bard of Greece, but by mere impertinences, such as 
calls of civility firom persons not very interesting to me, 
and letters firom a distance still less interesting, because 
the writers of them are strangers. A man sent me a 
long copy of verses, which I .could do no less than ac- 
knowledge. They were silly enough, and cost me eigh- 
teenpence, which was seventeenpence halfpenny farthing 
more than they were worth. Another sent me at the same 
time a plan, requesting my opinion of it, and that I would 
lend him my name as editor ; a request with which I 
shall not comply, but I am obliged to tell him so, and 
one letter is all that I have time to despatch in a day, 
sometimes half a one, and sometimes I am not able to 
write at all. Thus it is that my time perishes, and I can 
neither give so much of it as I would to you or to any 
other valuable purpose. 

On Tuesday we expect company — Mr. Rose and Law- 
rence the painter. Yet once more is my patience to 



302 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

be exercised, and once more I am made to wish that my 
face had been movable, to put on and take off at pleasure, 
so as to be portable in a bandbox, and sent to the artist. 
These, however, will be gone, as I believe I told you, 
before you arrive, at which time I know not that any- 
body will be here, except my Johnny, whose presence 
will not at all interfere with our readings. You will not, 
I believe, find me a very slashing critic : I hardly indeed 
expect to find anything in your Life of Milton that I shall 
sentence to amputation. How should it be too long? 
A well-written work, sensible and spirited, such as yours 
was, when I saw it, is never so. But, however, we shall 
see. I promise to spare nothing that I think may be 
lopped off with advantage. 

I began this letter yesterday, but could not finish it till 
now. I have risen this morning, like an infernal frog 
out of Acheron, covered with the ooze and mud of melan- 
choly. For this reason I am not sorry to find mjrself at 
the bottom of my paper, for had I more room, perhaps I 
might fill it all with croaking, and make an heartache at 
Eartham, which I wish to be alwa)rs cheerful. Adieu. 
My poor sympathising Mary is of course sad, but always 
mindfiil of you. W. C. 



TO MRS. COURTENAY. 

Weston, November 4, 1793. 

I SELDOM rejoice in a day of soaking rain like this ; 
but in this, my dearest Catharina, I do rejoice sincerely, 
because it affords me an opportunity of writing to you, 
which, if fair weather had invited us into the orchard 
walk at the usual hour, I should not easily have found. 
I am a most busy man — ^busy to a degree that sometimes 
half distracts me ; but if complete distraction be occa- 



LETTERS FROM WESTON UNDERWOOD. 303 

sioned by having the thoughts too much and too long 
attached to a single point, I am in no danger of it, with 
such a perpetual whirl are mine whisked about from one 
subject to another. When two poets meet, there are 
fine doings I can assure you. My Homer finds work for 
Hayley, and his Life of Milton work for me, so that we 
are neither of us one moment idle. Poor Mrs. Unwin in 
the meantime sits quiet in her comer, occasionally laugh- 
ing at us both, smd not seldom interrupting us with some 
question or remark, for which she is constantly rewarded 
by me with a " Hush — ^hold your peace 1 " Bless your- 
self, my dear Catharina, that you are not connected with 
a poet, especially that you have not two to deal with ; 
ladies who have, may be bidden indeed to hold their 
peace, but very little peace have they. How should they 
in fact have any, continually enjoined as they are to be 
silent ? 

* * * * * * 

The same fever that has been so epidemic there, has 
been severely felt here likewise ; some have died, and a 
multitude have been in danger. Two under our own 
roof have been infected with it, and I am not sure that I 
have perfectly escaped myself, but I am now well again. 

I have persuaded Hayley to stay a week longer, and 
again my hopes revive that he may yet have an oppor- 
tunity to know my fidends before he returns into Sussex. 
I write amidst a chaos of interruptions : Hayley, on the one 
hand, spouts Greek, and, on the other hand, Mrs. Unwin 
continues talking, sometimes to us, and sometimes, because 
we are both too busy to attend to her, she holds a dia- 
logue with herself. Query, is not this a bull ? and ought 
I not instead of dialogue to have said soliloquy ? 

Adieu 1 With our united love to all your party, and 
with ardent wishes soon to see you all at Weston, I 
remain, my dearest Catharina, ever yours, W. C. 



304 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO SAMUEL ROSE, ESQ. 

Weston, Deennber 8, 1793. 

My dear Friend — In my last I forgot to thank you 
for the box of books, containing also the pamphlets. We 
have read — that is to say, my cousin has, who reads to us 
in an evening — The History of Jonathan Wild^ and found 
it highly entertaining. The satire on great men is witty, 
and I believe perfectly just ; we have no censure to pass 
on it, unless that we think the character of Mrs. Heart- 
free not well sustained — ^not quite delicate in the latter 
part of it — and that the constant effect of her charms upon 
every man who sees her has a sameness in it that is tire- 
some, and betrays either much carelessness, or idleness, 
or lack of invention. It is possible, indeed, that the 
author might intend by this circumstance a satirical glance 
at novelists, whose heroines are generally all bewitching ; 
but it is a fault that he had better have noticed in another 
manner, and not have exemplified in his own. 

The first volume of Man as he is has lain unread in my 
study window this twelvemonth, and would have been 
returned unread to its owner had not my cousin come in 
good time to save it from that disgrace. We are now 
reading it, and find it excellent, abounding with wit and 
just sentiment, and knowledge both of books and men. 
Adieu ! W. C 



LETTERS FROM NORFOLK. 
1795-1799. 

TO THE REV. MR. BUCHANAN. 

MuNDSLEY, September 5, 1795. 



(f 



-to interpose a little ease, 



Let my frail thoughts dally with false stirmise I " 

I WILL forget for a moment that to whomsoever I may 
address myself, a letter from me can no otherwise be 
welcome than as a curiosity. To you, sir, I address this ; 
urged to it by extreme penury of employment, and the 
desire I feel to learn something of what is doing, and has 
been done, at Weston (my beloved Weston I ) since I 
left it. 

The coldness of these blasts, even in the hottest dajrs, 
has been such that, added to the irritation of the salt 
spray with which they are always charged, they have 
occasioned me an inflammation in the eyelids, which 
threatened a few days since to confine me entirely ; 
but by absenting myself as much as possible from the 
beach, and guarding my face with an umbrella, that 
inconvenience is in some degree abated. My chamber 
commands a very near view of the ocean, and the ships 
at high water approach the coast so closely that a man 
furnished with better eyes than mine might, I doubt not, 

X 



3o6 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

discern the sailors from the window. No situation^-at 
least when the weather is clear and bright — can be 
pleasanter ; which you will easily credit when I add that 
it imparts something a little resembling pleasure even to 
me. Gratify me with news of Weston 1 If Mr. Gregson 
and your neighbours the Courtenays are there, mention 
me to them in such terms as you see good. Tell me if 
my poor birds are living 1 I never see the herbs I used 
to give them without a recollection of them, and some- 
times am ready to gather them, forgetting that I am not 
at home. Pardon this intrusion. 

Mrs. Unwin continues much as usuaL 



TO LADY HESKETH, CHELTENHAM. 

Mr. Johnson is again absent — gone to Mattishall — a 
circumstance to which I am indebted for an opportunity 
to answer your letter as soon almost as I have received it. 
Were he present, I feel that I could not do it. You say 
it gives you pleasure to hear from me, and I resolve to 
forget for a moment my conviction that it is impossible 
for me to give pleasure to anybody. You have heard 
much from my lips that I am sure has given you none ; 
if what comes from my pen 1« less unpalatable, none has 
therefore so strong a claim to it as yourself. 

My walks on the sea-shore have been paid for by 
swelled and inflamed eyelids, and I now recollect that 
such was always the condition of mine in the same situa- 
tion, — a natural effect, I suppose, at least upon eyelids so 
subject to disorder as mine, of the salt spray and cold 
winds, which on the coast are hardly ever less than 
violent. I now therefore abandon my favourite walk. 



LETTERS FROM NORFOLK. 307 

and wander in lanes and under hedges. As heavy a price 
I have paid for a long journey performed on foot to a 
place called Hazeborough. That day was indeed a day 
spent in walking. I was much averse to the journey, 
both on account of the distance and the uncertainty of 
what I should find theie ; but Mr. Johnson insisted. We 
set out accordingly, and I was almost ready to sink with 
fatigue long before we reached the place of our destin- 
ation. The only inn was full of company ; but my 
companion, having an opportunity to borrow a lodging for 
an hour or two, he did so, and thither we retired. We 
learned on inquiry that the place is eight miles distant 
from this, and though by the help of a guide we shortened 
it about a mile on our return, the length of the way 
occasioned me a fever, which I have had now these four 
days, and perhaps shall not be rid of in four more ; per- 
haps never. Mr. J. and Samuel, after, dinner, visited the 
lighthouse ; a gratification which would have been none 
to me for several reasons, but especially because I found 
no need to add to the number of steps I had to take 
before I should find myself at home again. I learned, 
however, from them that it is a curious structure. The 
building is circular, but the stairs are not so, flight above 
flight, with a commodious landing at every twentieth 
stair, they ascend to the height of four stories; and 
there is a spacious and handsome apartment at every 
landing. The light is given by a patent lamp, of which 
there are two ranges ; six lamps in the upper range, 
and five in the lower ; both ranges, as you may sup- 
pose, at the top of the house. Each lamp has a broad 
silver reflector behind it. The present occupant was 
once commander of a large merchantman, but, having 
chastised a boy of his crew with too much severity, was 
displaced, and consequently ruined. He had, however, 
a friend in the Trinity House, who, soon after this was 



308 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

built, asked him if he would accept the charge of it ; and 
the cashiered captain, judging it better to be such a 
lamplighter than to starve, very readily and very wisely 
closed with the offer. He has only the trouble of scouring 
the silver plates every day, and of rising every night at 
twelve to trim the lamps, for which he has a competent 
salary (Samuel forgets the amount of it), and he and his 
family a pleasant and comfortable abode. 

I have said as little of myself as I could, that my letter 
might be more worth the postage. My next will perhaps 
be less worth it, should any next ensue, for I meet with 
little variety, and shall not be very willing to travel 
fifteen miles on foot again to find it. I have seen no fish 
since I came here, except a dead sprat upon the sands, 
and one piece of cod from Norwich, too stale to be eaten. 
Adieu 1 W. C. 



TO THE SAME, CHELTENHAM. 

MuNDSLBY, September 26, 1795. 

Mr. Johnson is gone forth again, and again, for the 
last time I suppose that I shall ever do it, I address a 
line to you. I knew not of his intentions to leave me 
till the day before he did so. Like everything else that 
constitutes my wretched lot, this departure of his was 
sudden, and shocked me accordingly. He enjoined me 
before he went, if I wrote at all in his absence, to write 
to Mr. Newton. But I cannot, and so I told him. 
Whither he is gone I know not ; at least I know not by 
information from himself. Samuel tells me that he thinks 
his destination is Weston. But why to Weston is un- 
imaginable to me. I shall never see Weston more. I 
have been tossed like a ball into a far country, from 
which there is no rebound for me. There indeed I lived 



LETTERS FROM NORFOLK. 309 

a life of infinite despair, and such is my life in Norfolk. 
Such indeed it would be in any given spot upon the face 
of the globe; but to have passed the little time that 
remained to me there, was the desire of my heart. My 
heart's desire, however, has been alwa3rs frustrated in 
ever3rthing that it ever settled on, and by means that 
have made my disappointments inevitable. When I left 
Weston I despaired of reaching Norfolk, and now that I 
have reached Norfolk, I am equally hopeless of ever 
reaching Weston more. What a lot is mine I Why was 
existence given to a creature that might possibly and 
would probably become wretched in the degree that I 
have been so? and whom misery, such as mine, was 
almost sure to overwhelm in a moment. But the question 
is vain. I existed by a decree from which there was no 
appeal, and on terms the most tremendous because un- 
known to, and even unsuspected by me ; difficult to be 
complied with had they been foreknown, and, unfore- 
known, impracticable. Of this truth I have no witness 
but my own experience — a witness whose testimony will 
not be admitted. But farewell to a subject with which I 
can only weary you, and blot the paper to no purpose. 
You assure me that I shall see you again ; tell me when 
and where I shall see you, and I will believe you if it be 
possible. 

Samuel desires me to present his duty to you. His 
wife is gone to Weston, and he wishes me to say that if 
Mrs. Herbert has any concerns there that Nanny can 
settle for her and will give her the necessary directions, 
she may depend upon their being exactly attended to. 
With Mrs. Unwinds respects, I remain the forlorn and 
miserable being I was when I wrote last. W. C. 



310 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 



TO THE SAME, AT BATH. 

January aa, 1796. 

I LITTLE thought ever to have addressed you by letter 
more. I have become daily and hourly worse, ever since 
I left Mundsley : there I had something like a gleam of 
hope allowed me, that possibly my life might be granted 
me for a longer time than I had been used to suppose, 
though only on the dreadful terms of accumulating fbture 
misery on myself, and for no other reason ; but even 
that hope has long since forsaken me, and I now consider 
this letter as a warrant of my own dreadful end : as the 
fulfilment of a word heard in better days, at least six and 
twenty years ago, — a word which, to have understood at 
the time when it reached me, would have been, at least 
might have been, a happiness indeed to me; but my 
cruel destiny denied me the privilege of understanding 
anything that, in the horrible moment that came winged 
with my immediate destruction, might have served to aid 
me. You know my story far better than I am able to 
relate it. Infinite despair is a sad prompter. I expect 
that in six days time, at the latest, I shall no longer 
foresee, but feel the accomplishment of all my fears. 
Oh, lot of unexampled misery incurred in a moment I 
Oh wretch ! to whom life and death are alike impossible ! 
Most miserable at present in this, that being thus miser- 
able I have my senses continued to me only that I may 
look forward to the worst. It is certain at least, that 
I have them for no other purpose, and but very im- 
perfectly even for this. My thoughts are like loose dry 
sand, which the closer it is grasped slips the sooner away. 
Mr, Johnson reads to me, but I lose every other sentence 
through the inevitable wanderings of my mind, and ex- 



LETTERS FROM NORFOLK. 311 

perience, as I have these two years, the same shattered 
mode of thinking on every subject and on all occasions. 
If I seem to write with more connexion, it is only 
because the gaps do not appear. Adieu. — I shall not be 
here to receive your answer, neither shall I ever see you 
more. Such is the expectation of the most desperate 
and most miserable of all beings. W. C. 



TO THE SAME. 

February 19, T796. 

Could I address you as I used to do, with what 
delight should I begin this letter ! But that delight, and 
every other sensation of the kind, has long since forsaken 
me for ever. The consequence is, that I neither know 
for what cause I write, nor of what materials to compose 
what shall be written ; my groans, could they be expressed 
here, would presently fill the paper. I write, however, 
at the instance of Mr. Johnson, and, as I always think 
so, alwa3rs on the last occasion, more assuredly than on 
any of the former, for the very last time. He, I know, 
inquired in a letter he lately sent you, when we might 
expect you here. Whatever day you name in your reply 
will be a day that I shall never see ; nor have I even the 
hope, unless it come to-morrow, that your reply itself 
will reach this place before I am taken from it. The 
uncertainty is dreadful, and all remedy for it impracticable. 
But why tell you what I think of myself, of my present 
condition, aiid of the means employed to reduce me to it? 
My thoughts on all these subjects are too well known to 
you to need any recital here. All my themes of misery 
may be summed up in one word, — He who made me, 
regrets that ever He did. Many years have passed since 
I heard this terrible truth from Himself, and the interval 



312 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

has been spent accordingly. Adieu. — I shall write to 
you no more. I am promised months of continuance 
here, and should be somewhat less a wretch in my present 
feelings, could I credit the promise, but effectual care is 
taken that I shall not. The night contradicts the day, 
and I go down the torrent of time into the gulf that I 
have expected to plunge into so long. A few hours 
remain, but among those few, not one is found a part of 
which I shall ever employ in writing to you again. Once 
more, therefore — adieu — and adieu to the pen for ever. 
I suppress a thousand agonies to add only W. C. 

Mr. Johnson says he shall expect me to resume the 
pen and my former employments on Tuesday se'ennight 
But what I have written here on my reperusal of it con- 
vinces me, as it may him, that it will be in vain. Some 
other dreadful thing will happen to me, and not the 
desirable one announced. 



TO THE SAME. 

May IS, T797. 

To you once more, and too well I know why, I am 
under cruel necessity of writing. Every line that I have 
everj sent you I have believed, imder the influence of 
infinite despair, the last that I should send. This I 
know to be so. Whatever be your condition either now 
or hereafter, it is heavenly compared with mine even at 
this moment It is unnecessary to add that this comes 
from the most miserable of human beings, whom a terrible 
moment made such. 



LETTERS FROM NORFOLK. 313 

TO THE SAME. 

June I, 1798. 

Under the necessity of addressing you, as I have 
done in other days, though these are such as seem to 
myself absolutely to forbid it, — I say as usual, my dear 
cousin; and having said it, am utterly at a loss to 
proceed. Mr. Johnson says that we are going on Monday 
to Mundsley, and bids me to tell you so ; but at present 
he acknowledges himself that it is uncertain whether we 
go or not, since we cannot know till to-morrow whether 
there is a place for us there, or the lodgings be already 
full. 

Whether the journey be practicable or otherwise, and 
wherever I am, my distress is infinite ; for I see no 
possible way of escape, in my circumstances, from miseries 
such as I doubt not will far exceed my most terrible ex- 
pectations. To wish, therefore, that I had never existed, 
which has been my only reasonable wish for many years, 
seems all that remains to one who once dreamed of 
happiness, but awoke never to dream of it again, and 
who, under the necessity of concluding as he began, 
subscribes himself your affectionate Wm, Cowper. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

July 29, 1798. 

Dear Sir— Few letters have passed between us, and 
I was never so incapable of writing as now, nor ever so 
destitute of a subject. It is long since I received your 
last, to which I have as yet returned no answer ; nor is it 
possible that though I write I should even now reply to 
it. It contained, I remember, many kind expressions, 
which would have encouraged, perhaps, and consoled any 
other than myself; but I was, even then, out of the 



314 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

reach of all such favourable impressions, and am at present 
less susceptible of them than at any time since I saw you 
last. I once little thought to see such days as these, for 
almost in the moment when they found me there was not 
a man in the world who seemed to himself to have less 
reason to expect them. This you know ; and what can 
I say of myself that you do not know ? 

I will only add, therefore, that we are going to the sea- 
side to-morrow, where we are to stay a fortnight ; at the 
end of which time may I expect to find a letter from you 
directed to me at Dereham ? — I remain, in the meantime, 
yours as usual, Wm. Cowper. 

Mr. Johnson is well, and desires to be kindly remem- 
bered to you. 



TO LADY HESKETH. 

MUNDSLEY, Oct. 13, X798, 

Dear Cousin — You describe delightful scenes, but 
you describe them to one who, if he even saw them, could 
receive no delight from them \ who has a faint recollection, 
and so faint as to be like an almost forgotten dream, that 
once he was susceptible of pleasure from such causes. 
The country that you have had in prospect has been 
alwajrs famed for its beauties ; but the wretch who can 
derive no gratification from a view of Nature, even under 
the disadvantage of her most ordinary dress, will have no 
eyes to admire her in any. 

In one day — in one minute, I should rather have said — 
she became an universal blank to me ; and, though from 
a different cause, yet with an effect as difficult to remove 
as blindness itself. In this country, if there are not 
mountains there are hills ; if not broad and deep rivers, 
yet such as are sufficient to embellish a prospect ; and an 



LETTERS FROM NORFOLK. 315 

object still more magnificent than any river, the ocean 
itself, is almost immediately under the window. Why is 
scenery like this, I had almost said, why is the very scene 
which many years since I could not contemplate without 
rapture, now become, at the best, an insipid wilderness ? 
It neighbours nearly, and as nearly resembles, the scenery 
of Catfield ; but with what different perceptions does it 
present me ! The reason is obvious. My state of mind 
is a medium through which the beauties of Paradise itself 
could not be communicated with any effect but a painful 
one. 

There is a wide interval between us, which it would be 
far easier for you than for me to pass. Yet I should in 
vain invite you. We shall meet no more. I know not 
what Mr. Johnson said of me in the long letter he 
addressed to you yesterday, but nothing, I am sure, that 
could make such an event seem probable. — I remain, as 
usual, dear cousin, yours, Wm. Cow per. 



TO THE REV. JOHN NEWTON. 

Dereham, April iz, 1799. 

Dear Sir — Your last letter so long unanswered may, 
and indeed must, have proved sufficiently that my state 
of mind is not now more favourable to the purpose of 
writing than it was when I received it ; for had any 
alteration in that respect taken place, I should certainly 
have acknowledged it long since, or at whatsoever time 
the change had happened, and should not have waited for 
the present call upon me to return you my thanks at the 
same time for the letter and for the book which you have 
been so kind as to send me. Mr. Johnson has read it to 
me. If it afforded me any amusement, or suggested to 



3l6 LETTERS OF WILLIAM COWPER. 

me any reflections, they were only such as served to 
embitter, if possible, still more the present moment by a 
sad retrospect to those days when I thought myself secure 
of an eternity to be spent with the spirits of such men as 
He whose life afforded the subject of it. But I was little 
aware of what I had to expect, and that a storm was at 
hand which in one terrible moment would darken, and 
in another still more terrible blot out, that prospect for 
ever. 

Adieu 1 dear sir, whom in those da3rs I called dear 
friend with feelings that justified the appellation. — I 
remain, yours, Wm. Cowper. 



THE END. 



Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh. 



I UNiFOBMLYprinted in 18mo, with Vignette Titles by J. £. Millais, 

T. WOOLNKR, W. HOLMAN HiTNT, SiB NOEL PatON, AbTHUB 

HroHES, Ac. En^ved on Steel by Jbens. Bound in extra doth, 
40. 6<f . each volume. Also kept in morocco and calf bindings. 

** Messrs. MacmiUan have, in tiieit Oolclen Treasnry; SMes, especially pio- 
'vided editioiui of standard wo^ks, volumes of selected poetiy, and original 

^jjeomposltibns, wMcSi entltte this sertes to be called classicaL Nothing 
«an oe better than lihe literary execution, nothing more elegant than the 
material workmanship. "—British Quabterlt Bkvisw. 

THE GOLDEN TREASURY OP THE BEST SONGS 
AND LYRICAL POEMS IN THE ENGLISH LAN- 
GUAGE. Selected and an-anged, with Kotes, by Fbancis 

TUBNSB PALORAVE. 

THE CHILDREN'S GARLAND PROM THE BEST 
POETS. Selected and arranged by Covektby Patmobb. 

THE BOOK OF PRAISE. From the best English Hynin 
Writers. Selected and arranged by Lobs Sblbobne. A Hew 
and Enlarged Edition, 

THE FAIRY BOQK ; the Best Popular Fairy Stories. Selected 
and rendered anew by the Author of ''John Halifax, 
GentlemAn." 

THE BALLAD BOOK. A Seiection of the Choicest British 
Ballads. Edited by William Allinoham. 

THE JEST BOOK. The Choicest Anecdotes and Sayings. 
Selected and arranged by Mabk Lemok. 

BACON'S ESSAYS AND COLOURS OF GOOD AND 
EVIL. With Notes and Glossarial Index by W. Aldis 
Wbioht, M.A. 

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS from this World to that 
which is to come. By John Bvntan. 



2 THE GOLDEN TREASUR Y SERIES. 

THE SUNDAY BOOK OF POETRY FOR THE 
YOUNG. Selected and arranged by C. F. Alexander. 

A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS of AU Times and AU I 
Countries. Grathered and Narrated Anew by the Author of 
"The Heib of Kbdolyffb." 



THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 
£dited, from the Oiiginal Edition^ ^ J. W. Clabk, M.A, 
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. 

THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO. Translated into EKGLisHf 
with Notes by J. Ll. Davdes, M.A.9 and D. J. Yauohan, H.A. 

THE SONG BOOK. Words and Tunes from the best Poets 
and Musicians. Selected and arranged by John HuLLAHy Pro- 
fessor of Vocal Music in King's College, London. 

LA LYRE FRANCAISE. Selected and arranged, with Notes, 
by GusTAYE Massok, French Master in Harrow SchooL 






TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS. By An Old Boy. 

A BOOK OF WORTHIES. Gathered from the Old Histories i 
and written anew by the Author of '*The Heir ov Red-^ 



I 



OLYFFB." 



A BOOK OF GOLDEN THOUGHTS. By Henry Att- 
well, Knight of the Order of the Oak Crown. 

GUESSES AT TRUTH. By Two Brothers. New EdUion. 

THE CAVALIER AND HIS LADY. Selections from the 
Works of the First Duke and Duchess of Newcastle. With 
an Introductory Essay by Edward Jenkins, Author of *' Ginz's 
Baby," &c. 

SCOTTISH SONG. A Selection of the Choicest Lyrics of Scot- 
land. Compiled and arranged, with brief Notes, by Mabt 
Carlyle Aiteen. 

DEUTSCHE LYRIK: The Golden Treasury of the Best Ger- 
man Lyrical Poems. Selected and arranged, with Notes and 
Literary Introduction, by Dr. Buohheim. 

HERRICK : Selections from the Lyrical Poems. Arranged, with 
Notes, by F. T. Palqraye. 

POEMS OF PLACES. Edited by H. W. Longfellow.. 
England and Wales. Two Vols. 



S] 



11 



\ 



THE GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES. 



MATTHEW ARNOLD'S SELECTED POEMS. 

(Also a Large Paper Edition, Crown 8vo, 12«. Qd.) 

THE STORY OF THE CHRISTIANS AND MOORS 
IN SPAIN. By C. M. Yonqb, Author of " The Heir of 
Redclyffe." l^ith Vignette by Holman Hunt. 

LAMB'S TALES FROM SHAKESPEARE. Edited by 
the Rev. A. Aingeb, M. A., Reader at the Temple. 

POEMS OF WORDSWORTH. Chosen and edited, with 
Preface, by Matthew Arnold. (Also a Large Paper Edition, 
Crown 8vo, 9».) 

SHAKESPEARE'S SONGS AND SONNETS. Edited 
with Notes by F. T. Palgravb. 

POEMS FROM SHELLEY. Selected and arranged by 
Stopford a. Bbooke, M.A. (Also a Large Paper Edition, 
Crown 8vo. 12*. U.) 

IB^SSAYS OF JOSEPH ADDISON. Chosen and edited 
by John RiOHABD Green, M.A., LL.D. 

3POETRY OF BYRON. Chosen and arranged by Matthew 
Arnold. (Also a Large Paper Edition, Crown Svo, 9s.) 

SIR THOMAS BROWNE'S RELIGIO MEDICI; Letter 
to a Friend, &c., and Christian Morals. Edited by W. A. 
GREENHILL, M.D. 

THE SPEECHES AND TABLE TALK OF THE 
PROPHET MOHAMMAD. Chosen and Translated, with 
an Introduction and Notes, by Stanley Lane-Poolb. 

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR, SELECTIONS FROM 
THE WRITINGS OF. Arranged and Edited by Professor 
Sidney Colvin. 

SELECTIONS FROM COWPER'S POEMS. With 
Introduction by Mrs. Oliphant. With a Vignette. 

SELECTIONS FROM COWPER'S LETTERS. By the 
Rev. W. Benham, B.D., Editor of the "Globe Edition" of 
Oowper's Poetical Works. \In the press. 

\* Other Volumet to follow, 
MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON. 



Now Publishing, In Crown Svo, prfce 2s, 64. each. 

ENGLISH MEN OF LEHERS. 

EDITED BT JOHN KOBLET. 

''This admirable series. "—British Quarterly Review. 
** Enjoyable and excellent little books." — Aecidemy. 



I 

I 



1 HN SON. 3y Leslie Stsphkst. 
SCOTT. By R. H. Hutton. 
QIBBQN. By J. G. Morisom. 

Shelley. By j. a. stmokds. 

HUME. By Prof. Huxlet, 

F R S 
GOLDSMITH. By Wiluam 

Black. 
DEFOE. By W. Minto. 
BURNS. By Principal Shairp. 
SPENSER. By R. W. Church, 

-IDeanofSt. Paul's. 
THACKERAY. By Anthony 

Trollope. 
BURKE. By John Morley. 
MILTON. By Mark Pattison. 
HAWTHORNE. By HenrIt 

Jamks 
SOUTHEY. By Prof. Dowden. 
CHAUCER. ByA. W.Ward. 
COWFER. By Goldwin Smith. 
BUNYAN. ByJ.A. Froude. 



BYRON. By John Niorol. 
LOCKE. By Thomas Fowler. 
POPE. By Leslie Stephen. 
CHARLES LAMB. B^ Ber. 

Alfred Ainoer. 
DE QUINCEY. By David 

Masson. V 

LAN DOR. By Sidney CoLviw. 
DRYDEN. By Georok Baibts. 

BURY. 

WORDSWORTH. By F. W. H. 

If YERS 

BENTLEY. By Professor R C. 

Jebb. 
SWIFT. By Leslte Stephxn. 
DICKENS. ByA. W. Ward. 
GRAY. ByE. W. GossE. 
STERNE. By H. D. Traill. 
MACAULAY. By J. G. Moaisov. 
SHERIDAN. By Mrs. OLiPHA»r.< 
FIELDING. By Austin IMbsoh. 
ADDISON. By W. J. Courthopb. 



\* Other Volume* to foUow. 



ENGLISH POETS. Selections, with Critical Introductions, 
by various Writers, and a General Introduction by Matthev Arnold. 
Edited by T. H. Ward, M.A. New Edition. 4 vols. Crown 8vo. 7«. 6d. 
each. 



Vol. L CHAUCER to DONNB. 
II. BEN JONSON to DRYDEN. 



Vol III. ADDISON to BLAKE. 

IV. WORDSWORTH to BOSSBTTI. 



I 



ESSAYS OF ELIA. Edited, with Introduction and Notes, 
by Alfred Ainqer, M.A. Globe 8vo. 69. 

A DICTIONARY OF MUSIC AND MUSICIANS (a.d. 
1450-1882) By Eminent Writers, English and Foreign. With IllustratioDfl 
and Woodcuts. Edited by Sir George Grove, D.C.L.; Director of the 
Royal College of Music. Svo. Parts I. to XIV., 3#. 6d, each. Parts XV. 
and XVI., 7«. Part XVII. and XVIII., 7«. 
Vols. I., II., and III. Svo. 21<. each. 



MACMILLAN & CO., LONDON. 



n^ 



