til 


i 


« 


!  m  )i  i 


!! 


I  1 


u 
A 

l 


lllliillli! 


Hi 


Ac 


??S 


LETTERS 


OF 


HORACE    WALPOLE 


TO 


SIR   HORACE   MANN. 


VOL.  III. 


•         •    •       •  _  * 

•  •      •    •  •♦  • 

•  •     •    •••  *• 

•  4   •     •     •  •    •  * 
•            •    •      •         •  • 


•         •         . 


»      *      • 

•     •  *   • 


*       • 


*     * 
•    •  • 


*        * 


«       •  • 


.  •  *  •      a 

.  •  •  •  • 


iJ<SfflS3Tl 


L  E  T  T  E  R  S 

I 

HORACE  W  A  LP  OLE, 


EARL  OF  ORFORD, 


TO 


SIR    HORACE    MANN, 


HIS    BRITANNIC   MAJESTY'S    RESIDENT  AT    THE    COURT 
OF  FLORENCE,  FROM  1760  to  1785. 

NOW  FIRST  PUBLISHED  FROM  THE  ORIGINAL  MSS. 


CONCLUDING    SERIES. 


VOL.  III. 


LONDON: 

RICHARD    BENTLEY,  NEW  BURLINGTON  STREET, 

jpufaltdjn-  fa  (©vtttnarg  to  f^cr  Piajeffty. 

M.DCCC.XLIV. 


LONDON : 

Printed  l>y  S.  &  J.  Be.ntj.ey,  Wilson,  &  Flkv. 
Bangor  House,  Shoe  Lane. 


3A 

4-23 

se.r-  X 
V>3 


ADVERTISEMENT 

BY    THE    EDITOR. 

In  a  late  number  of  the  Quarterly  Review,  in  an 
article  entitled  "  Horace  Walpole,"  the  Reviewer,  in 
the  course  of  an  estimate  which  he  makes  of  the 
character  and  talents  of  Walpole,  takes  the  opportu- 
nity of  indulging  in  some  strictures  on  what  he 
calls  "  his  scandalous  attempts  at  increasing  his  al- 
ready enormous  sinecure  income  ; "  observing,  "  so 
completely  had  this  man,  so  shrewd  and  sharp- 
sighted  in  detecting  the  follies  of  others,  blinded 
himself,  or  fancied  he  had  blinded  the  world  to  his 
real  motives,  that  we  find  that  during  the  long  life 
in  which  he  enjoyed  five  sinecure  offices,  producing 
him  at  least  six  thousand  three  hundred  pounds  a 
year,  he  was  not  ashamed  to  inveigh  bitterly  against 
the  abuses  of  Ministerial  patronage,  and  to  profess 
with  astonishing  effrontery,  that  the  one  virtue  which 
he  possessed  in  a  singular  degree,  was  disinterested- 
ness and  contempt  of  money."  How  far  this  censure 
was  merited,  both  as  regards  the  number  of  places 
held  and  the  amount  of  public  money  received  by 
Horace  Walpole  (for  the  whole  of  which  he  was  solely 
indebted  to  his  father  Sir  Robert),  and  especially  as 
vol.  in.  a 


VI  ADVERTISEMENT. 

regards  the  spirit  in  which  he  viewed  the  matter  him- 
self, will  be  seen  by  the  detailed  account  of  his  in- 
come given  in  the  Fourth  Volume  of  this  series  of 
letters.  As  Walpole  may  fairly  be  presumed  to  be 
the  best  judge  of  the  extent  of  his  own  ways  and 
means,  his  statement,  plain  and  straightforward  as  it 
is,  will,  we  take  for  granted,  be  considered  quite  suf- 
ficient refutation.  With  regard  to  the  assertion  that 
"  Mr.  Pelham  and  the  Duke  of  Newcastle  forfeited  his 
favour  by  refusing  to  do  a  very  profligate  pecuniary 
job  for  him/'  it  will  be  found  that  in  the  Memoir  to 
which  we  have  just  been  alluding,  mention  is  made  of 
this  "job;"  and  certainly,  as  Walpole  states  it,  we 
can  discover  nothing  "  profligate  "  in  the  character  of 
the  transaction. 

But  inaccuracy  of  statement  is  not  the  only  defect 
to  be  found  in  the  Reviewer's  article.  Speaking  of 
the  peculiarities  of  Horace  Walpole's  Letters,  he  likens 
them,  among  other  productions,  to  the  "  Annual  Re- 
gister," and  "Hansard's  Debates!"  And  yet,  in  the 
very  same  page  in  which  he  institutes  this  strange 
comparison,  he  confesses  that  "  no  painter  was  ever 
more  ready  to  sacrifice  accuracy  of  details  to  a  tone 
of  colour  than  Walpole,  and  he  carries  this  system  of 
embellishment  to  a  degree  that  diminishes,  even  in 
indifferent  matters,  our  confidence  in  his  veracity. 
Whenever  he  takes  offence,  he  distorts  facts,  disco- 
lours motives,  and  disparages  persons  with  the  most 
ingenious  and  inveterate  malignity."  In  another 
page    it    is    added,   "  to    look    to    Walpole   for    strict 


ADVERTISEMENT.  VI 1 

accuracy  and  impartiality  would  be  to  expect  from 
a  harlequin  the  gait  and  garb  of  an  undertaker." 
Now,  it  is  Avell  known,  that  the  chief — and  indeed 
the  sole — merit  of  the  "  Annual  Register,"  and  more 
especially  .  of  "  Hansard's  Debates,"  is  that  they  uni- 
formly maintain  a  tone  of  scrupulous  impartiality, 
and  are  mere  matter-of-fact  chronicles,  nothing  more. 
And  yet  the  Works  of  a  man  who,  we  are  told, 
"  sacrifices  accuracy  of  details  to  a  system  of  em- 
bellishment," and  whose  "  veracity  "  cannot  be  relied 
on,  are  coolly  and  gravely  compared  to  these  two 
most  rigidly  faithful  records  of  modern  times  ! 

London,  April,  1844. 


CONTENTS 


OF 


THE    THIRD    VOLUME. 


177(5. 

PAOK 

Dec.  20. — Walpole  complains  of  the  gout.  Dr.  Franklin  appoint- 
ed Plenipotentiary  to  the  Court  of  France.  War  in  America. 
General  Howe  and  Washington.     Retreat  of  the  latter  .         1 

1777. 

Jan.  24. — Nervousness  occasioned  by  the  gout.  Tide  of  victories 
in  America.  France  inclined  for  war  with  England.  Meeting 
of  Parliament.  Attempts  to  fire  Bristol  and  Portsmouth.  In- 
tended visit  to  Paris  of  the  Emperor  of  Germany         .  .         3 

Feb.  6. — Walpole's  dislike  to  the  change  in  manners.  Dearth  of 
news.  The  American  campaign  over  for  the  winter.  Storms 
brewing  in  the  North.     England  stark-mad.     Reflections  .         6 

March  5. — The  bootikins.  General  Washington.  Probability  of 
a  French  war.  Wisdom  of  the  retreat  of  the  Americans.  Death 
of  Sir  Thomas  Robinson  and  Lady  Shadwell.  Methusalems. 
Walpole's  old  age  agreeable  to  him.     Curious  story  .         9 

April  3. — Bad  position  of  affairs  in  America.  Lord  Pigot  trea- 
cherously imprisoned  in  India.  Reflections.  Walpole's  health 
better  in  London  than  in  the  country.     Specifics  for  the  gout      .       14 

April  28. — Lord  Orford's  phrenzy.  Miserable  house  in  which  he 
was  confined.  Dr.  Jebb.  Walpole's  endeavours  to  serve  his  ne- 
phew.    Insanity  of  the  latter        .  .  .  .18 

May  14. — Mann  afflicted  with  the  gout.  The  Duchess  of  Glouces- 
ter. Approaching  war  with  France  and  Spain.  Lord  Orford's 
madness.  Walpole's  chequered  life.  Reflections.  The  Du- 
chess of  Gloucester's  children.  Policy  of  France.  Probable 
loss  of  America.     New  Prince  of  Nassau  .  .       23 

vol.  in.  b 


VI  CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

June  18. — Lord  Chatham's  reappearance  in  the  House  of  Lords. 
Advantages  gained  by  Lord  Cornwallis  and  Governor  Tryon. 
Lord  Percy.  Avarice  of  the  Duke  of  Marlborough  i  Stores  and 
officers  sent  by  France  to  America.  The  Portuguese  Queen. 
Increase  of  silly  dissipation.  Late  hours.  Anecdote.  Lady 
Lucy  Mann.     Efficacy  of  sea-air  .  .  .28 

July  17.  —Illness  of  the  Duke  of  Gloucester.  Anxiety  of  the 
Duchess.  Her  three  daughters.  Uncertainty  of  American  affairs. 
Our  coast  infested  with  American  privateers.  Open  protection 
and  countenance  given  by  France  to  America  .  .       31 

Aug.  1 1 . — Dangerous  state  of  the  Duke  of  Gloucester.  The  Ame- 
rican war.  General  Howe.  General  Burgoyne's  pompous  ma- 
nifesto. Marriage  of  Lady  Mary  Churchill's  daughter  to  Lord 
Cadogan       .  .  .  .  .  .34 

Sep.  1. — The  Duke  of  Gloucester's  illness.  Capture  by  General 
Burgoyne  of  Ticonderoga.  General  Howe.  Fluctuation  of  af- 
fairs in  America.  Contradictory  reports.  Alienation  of  America 
from  this  country.  Continued  malady  of  Lord  Orford.  Reflec- 
tions on  age  .  .  .  .  .36 

Sep.  18. — Changes  in  the  Duke  of  Gloucester's  condition.  His  re- 
covery. Ravages  of  the  disease.  The  King's  kindness  to  his 
brother.  Uncertainty  as  to  America.  Walpole's  family  vexa- 
tions. Reports  from  America.  Strange  accident  to  Lord  Har- 
court.     Arrest  of  Count  Virry.     The  Prince  Masserano  .       39 

Oct.  26. — Uncertainty  of  the  state  of  affairs  in  America.  General 
uneasiness»as  to  the  result  of  the  war.  Arrival  in  England  of  the 
Duke  of  Gloucester.  His  appearance  and  that  of  the  Duchess. 
Their  children.  Inundation  of  Petersburgh.  The  Empress  of 
Russia  and  the  Duchess  of  Kingston.  Anecdote  of  the  Czarina 
and  the  Emperor  of  China  .  .  .  .44 

Nov.  7. — Report  of  a  total  defeat  of  Washington.  Distress  of  Bur- 
goyne's army.  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Gloucester.  Disas- 
trous prospect  of  a  French  war.  Speculations  on  the  war  in 
America       .  .  .  .  .  .47 

Dec.  4. — Confirmation  of  news  from  America.  Sir  William  Howe 
and  Washington.  General  Clinton.  Total  annihilation  of  Bur- 
goyne's army.  Parliamentary  skirmishes.  America  nearly  lost. 
Beginning  of  our  troubles.     Reflections  on  sickness  and  age        .       50 


CONTENTS.  vil 

PAGE 

L778. 

Jan.  4.— Speculations  on  the-  war  in  America.  Rumoured  treaty 
of  France  with  the  Americans.  High  road  to  foreign  war  and 
domestic  calamity.  Death  of  the  Bishop  of  Exeter.  Nohle  con- 
duct of  Sir  Edward  Walpole  to  his  daughter.  Bad  news  from 
America.     Mrs.  Anne  Pitt  .  .  .       55 

Feb.  (j. — Parliamentary  campaign.  Coolness  between  Lord  Chat- 
ham and  General  Rockingham.  Renewed  illness  of  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester.  Inquiries  in  Parliament  into  the  conduct  of  the 
war.     Walpole's  politics.     Indifference  of  age  .  .       58 

Feb.  18.— Lord  North's  conciliatory  plan.  Peace  solicited  with 
America.  Suspension  of  hostilities.  Treaty  between  France 
and  America.  Total  concession  of  everything  by  England  to 
America.     Retrospection  of  the  last  eight-and-thirty  years  .       CI 

March  5. — Death  of  Lady  Lucy  Mann.  Lord  North's  conciliatory 
plan.  National  humiliation.  Reflections.  State  of  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester's  health.  Death  of  Sir  Thomas  Hesketh.  Lord  Cow- 
per's  principality.  Affectation  of  wearing  orders  of  different 
countries.  (March  10.)— Captain  Digby  despatched  in  pursuit  of 
a  French  squadron.  Popular  dissatisfaction.  Dr.  Franklin's 
boast.     Lord  Temple  .  .  .  .64 

March  17. — Insult  from  France.  Lord  Stormont  recalled  from 
Paris.  Europe  about  to  be  a  theatre  of  blood.  Political  reflec- 
tions .  •  .  .  .  .70 

March  27. — Embargo  on  our  vessels  in  French  ports.  Rumours  of 
wars  beget  other  reports.  England  occupied  in  defending  itself. 
New-raised  regiments.  Independence  of  America.  Cruelty  of 
royal  ambition.     Lord  Orford's  recovered  sanity  .  .       72 

April  9. — Lord  Chatham's  last  appearance  in  the  House  of  Lords. 
Affecting  scene.  Incertitude  of  our  general  situation.  Demand 
by  the  King  of  a  provision  for  his  younger  children,  and  for  the 
children  of  the  Duke  of  Gloucester.     Lord  Orford's  absurdity     .       74 

May  9. — Sailing  of  the  Toulon  squadron.  Depredations  by  an 
American  privateer  commanded  by  Paul  Jones.  Lord  Chat- 
ham's dangerous  illness.  Suit  for  a  divorce  between  Lord  and 
Lady  Percy.     (May  11th.)— Death  of  Lord  Chatham  .       77 

May  31. — Inconsistency  of  popular  opinion  respecting  Lord  Chat- 
ham. Question  whether  he  is  to  be  buried  at  Westminster,  or 
in  St.  Paul's.  General  Burgoyne.  Quarrel  between  Temple, 
Luttrell,  and  Lord  George  Germain.  Anticipated  invasion  of 
this  country  by  France.  Spain  disclaims  hostility.  Rumoured 
revolts  in   Mexico.     Parliament    to  have   only   short   adjourn- 

b2 


Vlll  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


ments.  Senators  turned  soldiers,  and  disciplining  militia.  State 
of  opinion  in  London.  Death  of  Lord  Holdernesse.  Resigna- 
tion of  Lord  Bathurst.     Attorney-General  Thurlow  .  .       80 

June  16. — Rumour  of  changes  in  the  Administration.  The  Toulon 
squadron.  Destruction  of  American  sloops  in  the  Delaware. 
Admiral  Byron  sails  to  America.  England  spread  with  camps. 
The  English  Commissioners  in  America.  Death  of  Voltaire. 
Policy  of  Frederick  III.  of  Prussia.  Reflections  on  the  Ameri- 
can war        .  .  .  .  .  .84 

July  7. — Admiral  Keppel's  capture  of  two  frigates  of  the  Brest 
squadron.  Legislators  preferred  to  heroes.  England  threatened 
with  invasion.  Walpole's  reasons  for  not  fearing  it.  Prevalence 
of  military  spirit  among  men  of  quality.  Philadelphia  evacuated 
by  the  British  army.  Return  of  General  Howe.  Affectation  of 
enthusiasm  about  Lord  Chatham .     Reflections  on  war  .       87 

Aug.  4. — Singidar  character  of  the  war  with  France.  Flying 
fight  between  Admiral  Keppel  and  the  Brest  fleet.  Injury  by  a 
great  storm  to  the  fleets  of  Byron  and  D'Estaing.  Contempt 
shewn  to  our  Commissioners  in  America.  The  Emperor  of 
Austria  forced  to  beg  peace.  The  Duke  of  Gloucester  about  to 
make  the  campaign  under  the  King  of  Prussia.  Death  of  Lady 
Westmoreland  and  Lady  Fanny  Shirley      .  .  .92 

Aug.  25. — News  from  America.  Dissensions  between  Admiral 
Keppel  and  Sir  Hugh  Palliser.  The  German  peace.  The  Duke 
of  Gloucester.  Marvellous  summer.  Death  of  the  Duke  of 
Ancaster        .  .  .  .  .  .95 

Sep.  17. — Keppel  in  pursuit  of  the  Brest  fleet.  Safe  arrival  of  our 
merchant-fleets.  Lord  Howe  in  pursuit  of  D'Estaing.  Byron's 
squadron.  The  Duke  of  Gloucester's  services  handsomely  de- 
clined by  the  King  of  Prussia.  The  Duchess  of  Kingston.  Mr. 
Thomas  Pitt.  Death  of  Lady  Chesterfield.  Lies  propagated 
by  stock-jobbers,  and  by  newspapers.  Uncertainty  of  Spain's 
intentions.     Preposterous  conduct  of  the  Spanish  ambassador     .       97 

Oct.  8. — Admiral  Keppel's  fruitless  search  for  the  enemy.  French 
finesse.  Probability  of  negociations  with  France.  Bon-mot  of  the 
grand  Conde.  Anecdote.  Inspection  of  camps  by  the  King 
and  Sir  William  Howe.  Mrs.  Anne  Pitt.  Affectation  of  grief. 
Political  character  of  Lord  Chatham  .  .  .     100 

Oct.  30. — Return  of  Lord  Howe.  Intention  of  sending  twelve 
thousand  additional  men  to  America.  Return  of  Governor 
Johnstone.  The  Brest  squadron  again  at  sea.  Capture  of 
prizes    to  the  value   of  two   millions.     Death  of  the  Duke   of 


CONTENTS.  IX 

PAGE 
Queensberry  and  of  Lord  Lincoln.     The  bootikins.     Mrs.  Anne 
Pitt  .  .  .  .  .  .103 

Nov.  16. — Walpole  afflicted  with  gout.  Loss  of  Dominica.  Our 
fleets  and  armies.  The  Hibernian  family  at  Florence.  The 
Countess  Dowager  of  Berkeley     ....     107 

Nov.  27. — Sir  Horace  Mann's  nephew.  Treatment  of  the  gout. 
Opening  of  Parliament.  Sir  Henry  Clinton  and  our  West- 
Indian  islands.     The  French  party  in  Holland  .  .     109 

Dec.  18. — Late  hours.  Codicil  to  Walpole's  gout.  Rash  pro- 
clamation in  America.  Court-martial  on  Admiral  Keppel. 
Gallantry  of  great  dames.  Sale  of  the  pictures  at  Houghton. 
Death  of  Mr.  Worseley  .  .  .  .111 

177!). 

Jan.  5. — Prognostications  for  the  coming  year.  Unpopularity  of 
Admiral  Kejjpel's  trial.  Remonstrance  against  it  presented  to 
the  King  by  Lord  Hawke,  and  eleven  other  admirals.  Wal- 
pole's illness.  Mann's  indisposition  and  low  spirits.  Effusion 
of  his  friendship  for  Walpole.  Commencement  of  Keppel's 
trial  .  .  .  .  .  .115 

Jan.  29. —  The  Court-martial  on  Admiral  Keppel.  Its  probable 
effects.  Death  of  Garrick.  Report  about  Lord  Maynard.  The 
Duke  of  Dorset  and  Lady  Derby  .  .  .117 

Feb.  11. — Triumph  of  Admiral  Keppel.  Illumination.  Insurrec- 
tion in  Edinburgh  against  the  Papists.  Changes  expected,  par- 
ticularly in  the  Admiralty.  Retirement  of  Lord  Suffolk.  Lord 
Buckingham  quits  Ireland.  Mediation  of  Spain.  The  Duke  of 
Medina  Sidonia.  Virtue  of  patience  and  submission.  The 
Houghton  pictures.  Joy  on  the  acquittal  of  Keppel.  Old  Lady 
Albemarle.  Palliser's  escape  from  Portsmouth.  His  house  in 
Pall  Mall  forced  by  the  mob,  and  entirely  gutted.  Heat  of  the 
weather         .  .  .  .  .  .120 

Feb.  18. — Renewed  illuminations  on  the  acquittal  of  Admiral 
Keppel.  Vote  of  thanks  to  him  by  the  Lords  and  Commons. 
Palliser's  resignation  of  his  seat  at  the  Admiralty  and  in  Parlia- 
ment. Lord  Sandwich.  Negociations  with  the  Opposition. 
Admiral  Keppel  at  the  House  of  Commons.  More  illumination. 
Address  to  the  King  to  remove  Palliser  from  all  his  military  em- 
ployments.    Exultation  of  the  City  against  the  French  .     126 

Feb.  25. — Disgrace  brought  on  the  Court  by  the  persecution  of 
Admiral  Keppel.  Capture  of  St.  Lucia.  Expedition  to  Georgia. 
Deplorable  prospect.     The  loan.     New  taxes  and  new  discon- 


CONTEXTS. 


PAGE 


tent.  Indifference  and  dissipation  of  the  country.  War  of  pri- 
vateering. Backwardness  of  Spain.  England  saved  from  slavery, 
planned  by  the  Scots.  Temperate  behaviour  of  Admiral  Kep- 
pel.     Riots  .  .  .  .  .128 

March  9. — Fluctuation  of  the  majority  in  the  House  of  Commons. 
Questions  relating  to  the  Fleet.  Death  of  Lord  Suffolk.  Sir 
Horace  Mann's  nephew.  French  prizes.  D'Estaing's  woful  figure. 
Scarcity  of  heroes.  The  Emperor  and  the  King  of  Prussia. 
Dearth  of  private  news.  Political  invectives  in  the  newspapers. 
Lady  Maynard  and  the  Countesses  of  Berkeley  and  Orford. 
Speech  in  Parliament,  against  the  Court,  of  Sir  Horace  Mann 
the  younger  .....     131 

March  22. — Conquest  of  Pondicherry.  Mann's  nephew  votes 
again  with  the  Court.  The  place  of  Secretary  of  State  not  filled. 
Injury  to  the  French  trade  by  our  captures.  Bill  to  discourage 
the  crime  of  adultery.  Fallacious  hopes  and  promises.  Mon- 
sieur de  la  Fayette,  and  the  Congress  of  America.  D'Estaing 
blockaded  at  Martinico  .  .  .  .135 

April  17. — "  Parenthesis  of  Opposition,"  by  Sir  Horace  Mann's  ne- 
phew. The  political  horizon.  Sir  Hugh  Palliser's  trial.  Assas- 
sination of  Miss  Ray.  Trial  of  her  murderer.  His  execution. 
Fox's  motion  for  the  removal  of  Lord  Sandwich  .  .     139 

April  24. — Bootikins  for  hands  and  feet.  Expected  decision  of 
Spain.  Fallacy  of  the  rise  in  Stocks.  Motion  in  each  House  for 
the  removal  of  Lord  Sandwich.  Palliser.  The  Howes.  Lord 
Lyttelton.  Governor  Johnstone.  Rumours  of  peace.  Insin- 
cerity and  cunning        .....     142 

May  9. — Invasion  of  Jersey.  Admiral  Arbutlmot  and  General 
Conway.  Repulse  of  the  invaders.  Sailing  of  the  Brest  fleet. 
Ireland  following  the  example  of  America.  Impolitic  conduct  of 
the  English.  Inquiry  by  the  House  of  Commons  into  the  con- 
duct of  the  American  war.  Shameful  acquittal  of  Palliser.  By- 
ron and  D'Estaing.  The  Presbyterians  of  Scotland.  Mrs.  Anne 
Pitt.  Lady  Lucan's  talent  for  the  fine  arts.  Lord  Bristol, 
Bishop  of  Derry  .....     145 

May  29. — Neutrality  of  Spain.  Expected  attempt  on  Ireland. 
False  report  about  Byron  and  D'Estaing.  Examination  by  the 
House  of  Commons  into  the  conduct  of  Generals  and  Admirals. 
Tragedy  of  "  The  Mysterious  Mother."  Mann's  nephew.  De- 
pravation of  England.  Lord  Cornwallis  sent  to  command  Ame- 
rica.    Death  of  the  Duke  of  Rutland.     Discontent  of  the  Irish    .     152 

June  16. — Hostility  of  Spain.     Rising  of  Parliament.     The  Brest 


CONTENTS.  XI 

PAGE 
fleet.     National   delusion.     Retrospect  of  correspondence   with 
Mann.     Reflections  on  war.     Gloomy  speculations  of  a  solitary 
man  ......     155 

June  30. — Sir  Horace  Mann  the  younger.  Ruin  brought  upon  Eng- 
land by  incapable  politicians.  Expected  engagement  between 
our  fleet  and  the  united  one  of  France  and  Spain.  Ireland  in 
danger.  The  nation  infatuated.  Prophecies  of  the  Opposition 
verified.  Insolence  and  despotism  of  the  Ministry.  Obstinacy 
of  prerogative.  The  Administration  and  Opposition.  Walpole's 
ideas  on  the  state  of  affairs  .  .  .  .158 

July  7. — The  war  with  Spain.  Great  preparations  at  Cadiz  and  in 
the  ports  of  France.  Open  division  in  the  Ministry.  Projected 
visit  to  Mann  of  his  nephew.  Character  of  the  Italians  and  the 
French.  Death  of  the  Duke  of  Ancaster.  His  character. 
Magnificent  bounties  of  Fortune  to  Peter  Burrell's  family.  The 
Duchesses  of  Ancaster.  Medal  on  the  alliance  between  the 
Great-Duke  of  Tuscany  and  the  Emperor  of  Morocco.  Expected 
invasion  from  Havre.  Probable  surrender  of  Charlestown.  The 
fleet  at  Torbay.  Mr.  Conway.  Treachery  of  the  Court.  Booti- 
kins  sent  to  Mann.  Lady  Horatia  Waldegrave  and  the  late  Duke 
of  Ancaster.     Humiliation  of  England         .  .  .     163 

Aug.  4.  —  Safe  arrival  of  our  great  West-India  fleet.  Siege  of 
Gibraltar.  Junction  of  French  and  Spanish  ships.  Sale  of  the 
pictures  at  Houghton  to  the  Czarina.  General  Conway.  Con- 
quest of  St.  Vincent  by  the  French.     Policy  of  France  .     170 

Aug.  19. — Movements  of  the  French  and  Spanish  squadrons.  Re- 
flections on  public  and  private  duties  .  .  .173 

Sep.  .5. — The  combined  fleets.  Sir  Charles  Hardy.  Captain  Bote- 
ler's  gallant  defence  of  his  ship.  All  the  world  are  politicians  or 
soldiers         .  .  .  .  .  .175 

Sep.  16. — Dreadful  eruption  of  Vesuvius.  News  of  D'Estaing's 
success  against  Byron  and  Barrington,  and  of  the  capture  of  Gre- 
nada. Sir  Charles  Hardy  and  D'Orvilliers.  Our  aggressions 
in  the  East.  Reflections.  Death  of  Lord  Temple.  His  cha- 
racter ......     177 

Oct.  11. — Surprisal  of  Stony  Point  by  the  Americans.  D'Orvilliers. 
Mortality  in  the  combined  fleets.  Solemn  lies.  France  and  the 
Emperor  of  Germany.  State  of  Walpole's  health.  His  new 
house  in  Berkeley  Square.     Wisdom  of  visions  .  .17!) 

Oct.  14. — Introduction  of  Mr.  Windham  to  Sir  Horace  Mann         .     182 

Oct.  31. — Lady  Diana  Beauclerc's  drawings  of  scenes  in  "  The 
Mysterious  Mother."     Mr.  Windham.     Threatening  position  of 


Xll  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


Ireland.  The  combined  fleets  from  Brest.  Lord  Stormont's  pro- 
motion.    General  Conway  ....     184 

Nov.  12. — Zoffani's  picture  of  the  Tribune  at  Florence.  Disagree- 
ment among  the  admirals  of  the  combined  fleet.  Expected 
changes.  Walpole's  brother.  Return  to  London  of  Mann's  ne- 
phew.    Vesuvius  .  .  .  .  .188 

Nov.  28. — Meeting  of  the  Parliament.  Numbers  on  the  division. 
Convenient  method  of  voting.  Resignation  of  Lords  Gower  and 
Weymouth.  Concurrence  of  untoward  circumstances.  Lord 
North.  Accession  to  the  Ministry  of  Lords  Bathurst  and  Hills- 
borough. D'Estaing's  fleet  dispersed  by  a  tempest.  Ireland  in 
danger.  Wilkes  as  Chamberlain  of  London.  Mrs.  Montagu's 
poem  on  Shakspeare.  Sudden  death  of  Lord  Lyttelton  Duel 
between  Charles  Fox  and  Mr.  Adam  .  .  .     192 

Dec.  20. — Parliamentary  transactions  Great  concessions  to  Ire- 
land. Rich  captures  from  Spain.  Anecdote  of  a  sailor.  Infa- 
mous brutality  of  an  Irish  peer.     Defeat  of  D'Estaing  .     199 


1780. 

Jan.  4. — Probable  war  with  Holland.  Capture  by  Captain  Field- 
ing of  Dutch  merchant-men,  and  men-of-war.  Reflections  on  age 
and  illness  .  .  .  .  .203 

Jan.  13. — A  Dutch  war  not  likely.  General  discontent.  D'Estaing's 
reception  in  France.  Reflections  on  Sir  Robert  Walpole  and  his 
enemies,  Swift,  Bolingbroke,  Bathurst,  and  Gay.  Policy  of 
France  injurious  to  herself.  Character  of  Bolingbroke,  Bathurst, 
Gay,  and  Swift  .....     205 

Feb.  6. — Petitions  from  two-and-twenty  counties.  Consternation 
of  the  Court.  Counter-protests.  Meeting  in  Westminster.  Charles 
Fox  and  Wilkes.  Party  transformations.  Lord  George  Gordon, 
an  apostle  against  the  Papists.  Mad  Lords.  Gambling  at  the 
Cocoa-tree.  Anecdote  of  Mr.  O'Birne,  and  Mr.  (afterwards 
Admiral  Sir  Eliab)  Harvey.  Seizure  of  the  province  of  Oude. 
The  Grand  Lama.     Anecdote.     Reflections  .  .     210 

Feb.  22. — Rodney's  victory  over  the  Spaniards.  Approaching 
general  election.  Division  on  Sir  George  Savile's  demand  for  a 
list  of  the  King's  pensions.  Importance  of  provincial  committees. 
Probable  change  of  men  and  measures.  Stormy  aspect  of  the 
political  horizon.     Death  of  Lady  Catherine  Pelham  .     215 

March  3. — Mr.  Burke's  bill  of  Reformation.  Increase  of  associa- 
tions in  the  counties.     Sir  George  Rodney's  victory.     Admiral 


CONTENTS.  Xlll 

PAGE 

Parker's  success.     M.  Nccker's  church  reforms.      Reflections  on 
diversions,  politics,  and  age  .  .  .  .218 

March  14. — Ministry  defeated  on  Mr.  Burke's  bill.  Wrangling 
between  Lord  North  and  the  Speaker.  Obstinacy  of  the  Court. 
Desirableness  of  change  ....     221 

March  21. — Ministerial  majority  on  the  debate  on  the  King's 
household.  Career  of  the  Opposition  checked.  Dishonourable 
attack  on  Lord  North  by  Temple  Luttrell.  Extravagant  as- 
sumption of  the  county  associations  resisted  by  Lord  Rocking- 
ingham  and  his  party,  and  advocated  by  Lord  Shelburne  and 
Charles  Fox.  Reflections  on  attempts  to  mend  the  Constitution. 
The  Easter  recess.     A  "  grim  repose."     Duels  .  .     223 

April  8. — Signal  defeat  of  the  Court  on  Mr.  Dunning's  bold  motion. 
A  decisive  blow.  Reflections  on  the  crisis.  The  orator,  Dr. 
Jebb.  Duel  between  Lord  Shelburne  and  Mr.  Fullarton.  Wal- 
pole  the  dupe  of  his  own  penetration.  Declining  majority  against 
Ministers       ......     227 

April  17. — Fluctuation  in  the  House  of  Commons.  Ministerial 
majority.  Parliamentary  inconsistency.  Illness  of  the  Speaker. 
Adjournment  of  the  Commons.  Rejection  of  the  new  tests  of 
the  associations.  Manifesto  of  the  Court  of  St.  Petersburgh. 
Mr.  Windham  at  Florence.  Walpole  a  settled  Whig.  Return 
to  the  House  of  the  Speaker.  Rejection  of  Dunning's  motion. 
Discomfiture  of  the  Opposition     ....     232 

May  13. — Confirmation  of  the  Ministerial  recovery.  Reflections 
on  the  youth,  maturity,  and  senility  of  the  globe.  Languor  of 
the  war.  Death  of  Sir  Charles  Hardy.  Walpole's  shattered 
nerves.     Mann's  nephew  ....     236 

June  5. — Naval  engagement  in  the  West-Indies.  Lord  George 
Gordon  and  the  Protestant  Association.  Meeting  in  St.  George's 
Fields  of  the  conservators  of  the  Church  of  England.  Violence 
of  Lord  George  Gordon.  Peers  assaulted  in  their  way  to  the 
House  of  Lords.  Violent  riots.  Military  called  out.  Character 
of  Lord  George  Gordon.  Mann's  presents  to  Walpole.  More 
riots.  Attack  on,  and  destruction  of,  Lord  Mansfield's  house. 
Camp  of  ten  thousand  men  in  Hyde  Park  .  .     239 

June  14. — The  riots.  Damage  of  property.  Lord  George  Gordon 
in  the  Tower.  Traitorous  character  of  the  Scotch  nation.  Tran- 
quillity restored.  (June  16.) — Surrender  of  Charlestown  to  Sir 
H.  Clinton.  Reconciliation  of  the  King  with  his  brothers. 
Wilkes's  repulse  of  the  rioters  at  the  Bank  of  England.  Re- 
flections on  the  late  disturbances  .  .  .     246 


XIV  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


July  6. — Ridiculous   state   of    the   Government   and    Parliament. 
Contradictions  and  incoherences  of  the  last  six  months.     Trial 
of  the  rioters.  Paralyzed  condition  of  the  Government  during  the 
riots.     Approaching  marriage  of  Lord  Egremont  to  Lady  Maria 
Waldegrave.      Character  of  the  bride  and  bridegroom.      Wal- 
pole's  happiness  at  the  event.     Caprices  of  Fortune    .  .     249 

July  24. — Junction  of  the  fleets  of  Bourbon.     State  of  affairs  in 
America.      Present  from  Sir  Horace  Mann  to  Walpole.      Anec- 
dote  of  Mrs.  Bracegirdle.     The  marriage  of  Lord  Egremont  to 
Lady  Maria  Waldegrave  broken    off.     Similar  event    attending 
Lady   Laura  and  Lady    Horatia  Waldegrave.      Trial    of  Lord 
George  Gordon.     Many  of  the  late  rioters  mere  boys.     Cowar- 
dice and  negligence  of  the  Ministers  and  the  Justices  of  Peace    .     253 
Aug.  24. — The  Russian  fleet  in  our  channel.     Capture  of  our  East 
and  West-India  convoy  by  the  combined  fleets.     Want  of  news 
from   America.      Death   of  the  Countess  Cowper.     Mr.  Wind- 
ham.    Junction   of  Walsingham  and  Rodney.     Multiplicity  of 
lies  and  rumours  coined  daily       ....     257 

Sep.  19. — Want  of  important  events.  Re-election  of  Sir  H.  Mann, 
jun.     Impossibility  of  recovering  America.     Admiral  Keppel  at 
Windsor.     Creation  of  seven  new  Barons.     Mr.  Morrice  .     259 

Oct.  4.— The  "  History  of  the  House  of  Medici."     The  "  Famiglia 
estinta."      Carelessness  of  Mr.  Morrice.       Arrival   of  General 
Dalrymple.      Bad  news   from   America.     Accident  to  General 
Conway        ......     262 

Oct.  7. — Arrival  of  a  present  from  Sir  Horace  Mann.     Its  danger- 
ous journey  to  England.     Its  place  at  Strawberry  Hill.     Muni- 
ficence of  Sir  H.  Mann's  presents.     (Oct.  9.) — Death  of  Madame 
du  Deffand.     State  of  her  health  previous  to  death.     Apprehen- 
sion  of  Laurens,  President  of  the    Congress.     Gen.    Conway. 
Defeat  of  General  Gates  at  Carolina  .  .  .     264 

Nov.   2. — New   Members    of  Parliament.      Mr.    Cornwall  made 
Speaker.      The   Spanish    negociation.     Prince    Frederic.     The 
Prince   of  Wales.     Lord  Pomfret  and   the  Duke   of  Grafton. 
Anecdote.      Mr.  Windham.      The    Abbe  Richard's   "  Voyage 
d'ltalie."  Old  English  mansions.   Parliamentary  news.     Illness 
of  Lord  North  .....     268 

Nov.  20. — Proceedings  in  Parliament.  Lord  Pomfret's  submis- 
sion after  imprisonment  in  the  Tower.  Lord  George  Gordon. 
Arnold.  Major  Andre.  Rodney  and  Rhode  Island.  Reflec- 
tions. (Nov.  25.) — Proposal  of  the  Opposition  to  thank  Sir 
Fletcher  Norton.     Rupture  with  the  Dutch  expected  .     271 

Dec.  12. — Death   of   the   Empress    of  Germany.       Retrospection 


CONTENTS.  XV 

PAOE 

of  the  last  forty  years.  Keppel  and  Palliser.  Expected  cngage- 
nient  between  Darby  and  D'Estaing.  Lord  Pomfret  repri- 
manded at  the  House  of  Lords.      Horrors  attendant  upon  war     .     274 

Dec.  21. — War  with  Holland  declared.  Arrival  of  Admiral 
Darby.  The  Continental  post-office.  Emptiness  of  town. 
Hurricane  at  St.  Christopher's.     Admiral  Rowley       .  .     270 

Dec.  31. — The  Count  and  Countess  of  Albany.  Lady  Orford. 
War  with  Holland.  Departure  of  Count  Welderen.  Establish- 
ment of  a  household  for  the  Prince  of  Wales.  Superannuated 
idiots.  Europe  paying  its  debts  to  America.  Loss  of  ships  in 
the  hurricane.     Anecdote  ....     277 

1781. 

Jan.  9. — Seizure  of  Jersey   by    the    French.      Their   subsequent 
ejection         ......     280 

Jan  18. — The  Countess  of  Albany.     General  Conway's  dangerous 
voyage  to  Jersey.     Opening  of  Parliament.     Reconciliation  with 
Holland.     Walpole's    ignorance    of    the    affairs    of    the    world. 
Scandal   and  lies  of  the   newspapers.     Mr.    Benfield   and   the 
India  House.     England  in  a  state  of  ruin.     Expected  war  with 
Russia.     Trial  of  Lord  George  Gordon.     Arrival  of  the  East- 
Indian  fleet  in  Ireland  ....     282 

Feb.  6. — Lady  Orford's  death.     Lord  Orford's  sale  of  his  pictures. 

Lady  Orford's  will.     Trial  of  Lord  George  Gordon      .  .     286 

Feb.  11. — Validity  of  Lady  Orford's  will  questioned.     Lord  Or- 
ford's ingratitude  to  Walpole.     Death  of  Lady  Dick  and  Mrs. 
Pitt  .  .  .  .  .  .287 

Feb.  26. — Marriage  of  the  Hon.  Horatio  Walpole  with  Sophia 
Churchill.  Lord  Orford's  fortune.  Imagination  a  good  and 
wise  thing.  Degraded  state  of  the  English  nation.  The  French 
dancers,  Vestris  and  his  son.  Wreck  of  richly-laden  Indiamen 
on  the  Dutch  coast.  Revolt  of  a  body  of  Washington's  troops  .  289 
March  13. — Conquest  of  St.  Eustatia.  Rise  in  the  Stocks.  Ru- 
moured peace  with  the  Dutch.  Reflections  upon  the  unhappy 
situation  of  England.  Lack  of  news.  Jobs  in  Parliament. 
Their  Highnesses  of  Cumberland  and  the  Prince  of  Wales. 
The  political  hurricane  .  .  .     293 

March  30. — Ill-success  of  the  British  in  America.  Invasion  of  the 
Carnatic  by  Hyder  Ali  Khan.  Europe  in  ancient  and  modern 
times.  Gibraltar.  The  Dutch  reply  to  our  manifesto.  Re- 
flections      .  .  .  .  .  .295 


XVI  CONTENTS. 


PAGE 


April  27. — Proceedings  at  Gibraltar.  An  Extraordinary  Gazette 
or  two.  The  Vandals  of  the  North.  Inactivity  of  Parliament. 
The  newspapers  chronicle  the  most  trifling  facts  .  .     298 

May  6. — Relief  of  Gibraltar  by  Darby.  Walpole's  and  Sir  Ho- 
race Mann's  gout.     Wretched  state  of  our  affairs  in  the  East     .     300 

May  16. — Lord  Cornwallis's  victory  over  Greene,  in  America. 
Capture  of  the  Eustatia  convoy  by  De  la  Motte  Piquet.  Ap- 
proaching marriage  of  Sir  John  Dick.  Want  of  energy  in  the 
House  of  Lords.  State  of  the  House  of  Commons.  Dissipation 
of  the  times.  Gaming.  The  game  of  Faro.  Mr.  Fox.  Anec- 
dotes. Future  times.  Sir  Horace  Mann's  nephew,  and  Wal- 
pole's nephew  .....     301 

June  8. — Lord  Cornwallis.  Necker,  the  French  Comptroller- 
General,  dismissed  from  his  office.     Indian  affairs       .  .     307 

July  5. — The  Duke  of  Gloucester's  visit  to  the  Emperor.  Lord 
Orford  and  the  Rolle  estate.  The  barony  of  Clinton.  The 
barony  of  Say  and  Sele  adjudged  to  Mr.  Twistleton.  Present 
from  Sir  Horace  Mann  to  Walpole.  Benvenuto  Cellini's  silver 
chest.  Lord  Mulgrave's  failure  at  Flushing.  Rumoured  junc- 
tion of  Lord  Cornwallis  and  Arnold  .  .  .     308 

Aug.  1. — Proceedings  of  the  French  and  Spaniards.  Marriage  of 
Lord  Walpole's  son  to  Sophia  Churchill.  Sir  John  Dick  de- 
clines marrying.     "  Galluzzi's  History"     .  .  .       310 

Aug.  23. — Sea-fight  between  Parker  and  the  Dutch.  Visit  of  the 
King  and  Prince  to  the  Admiral  to  thank  him.  State  of  Gi- 
braltar. Removal  of  curiosities  from  the  Tribune  at  Florence. 
Pope's  garden  at  Twickenham  spoiled  by  Sir  Win.  Stanhope. 
Anecdote  of  Thomas,  Earl  of  Pembroke      .  .  .     312 

Sep.  7. — Arrival  of  the  combined  fleet  at  the  mouth  of  the  Chan- 
nel. State  of  our  naval  affairs.  Safety  of  Gibraltar.  Lord 
George  Gordon  candidate  for  the  City  of  London.  The  Great- 
Duke's  ordinance  against  high  head-dresses.  Wonderful  abili- 
ties of  Mrs.  Darner.     Lady  Wm.  Campbell  .  .     315 

Sep.  11. — The  combined  fleet  at  the  entrance  of  the  Channel. 
Their  probable  intentions  .  .  .  .318 

Sep.  19. — Interception  of  letters.  Contradictory  rumours  respect- 
ing the  combined  fleet  and  Darby.  Minorca  supposed  to  be 
ceded  to  Russia.  Lord  George  Gordon  and  the  City  of  London. 
Sir  Horace  Mann's  nephew.  "  Galluzzi's  History."  Dearth  of 
private  news.     Report  of  an  armistice  with  Holland    .  .     319 

Oct.  3. — Want  of  news.  Proceedings  of  France  and  Spain.  The 
combined  fleets  departed  homeward.     Arrival  of  the  fleet  from 


CONTENTS.  XV11 

PAGE 

the  Leeward  Islands.     Death  of  Lord  Rochford.    Supposed  ar- 
rival of  "  Prince  Cowper  "  in  England.     Death  of  Lord  Vere    .    321 

Oct.  18. — The  "  History  of  the  Medici."  Short  criticism  on  the 
work.  Attack  on  a  French  fleet  at  the  mouth  of  the  Chesapeak. 
Commodore  Johnstone  takes  four  Dutchmen.  Arrival  of  the 
Indian  fleet.  Lord  Cornwallis.  Death  of  Lord  Hawke.  No 
news  from  Minorca      .....     323 

Oct.  29. — Sir  Horace  Mann,  jun.  State  of  Walpole's  health,  and 
shattered  condition  of  his  nerves.  Expectation  of  the  loss  of 
Minorca.  Bungling  of  England,  France,  and  Spain.  Ill-fortune 
in  America.  Remarks  on  the  "  History  of  the  Medici."  The 
Great-Duke  Leopold.  The  Duchess  of  Gloucester.  Inoculation 
of  Prince  William        .....     32G 

Nov.  26. — Sir  Horace  Mann,  jun.  Mrs.  Darner.  Reported  sur- 
render of  the  British  army  to  Washington.  Reflections  there- 
on .....  330 

Nov.  29.  —  Arrival  of  Sir  Horace  Mann,  jun.  His  dangerous 
passage  home.  Surrender  of  Lord  Cornwallis's  army  in  Ame- 
rica. Anecdote  of  M  de  Maurepas.  The  Due  de  Nivernois. 
The  House  of  Commons.  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr.  Pitt.  Curious 
coincidence.  The  Stamp-Act,  and  its  disastrous  consequences. 
The  American  war  nearly  at  an  end.  Heroic  conduct  of  Ge- 
neral Murray  at  Minorca.  Mrs.  Damer  at  Rome.  Mr.  Terney. 
Third  set  of  "  Galuzzi's  History."  Cosmo  the  Great.  Bianca 
Capello.  John  Gaston.  The  Great-Duke's  collection  of  china. 
Medallions  by  Benvenuto  Cellini  .  .  .     332 

Dec.  21. — Defeat  of  Hyder  Ally  in  India.     Naval  affairs.     Admi- 
ral Kempenfelt,  and  the  French  expedition  to  the  West  Indies. 
Lord  Sandwich's  unskilfulness  and  negligence.     Lord  Rocking- 
ham complains  of  him  in  the  House  of  Lords.     The  King  of 
France  and  Cardinal  de  Bernis    ....     343 

Dec.  28. — Remarks  on  the  "  History  of  the  Medici."  Iniquities 
of  the  Popes.  Lord  Clarendon.  Knavery  of  the  Earls  of  Salis- 
bury. Henry  IV.  and  Sully.  The  Archbishop  of  Florence 
and  the  English  Parliament.  Portrait  of  Camilla  Martelli  by 
Allegrini.  Monument  to  Lady  Orford  at  Leghorn.  Lord  Or- 
ford's  new  domains  and  seats.  Lack  of  news.  Anecdote  of 
Lady  Pomfret.  Divorces  and  elopements  in  high  life.  Anec- 
dote.    Lord  Cholmondeley  ....     345 


PAGE 


XV111  CONTENTS. 

1782. 

-Jan.  17. — Attack  of  the  gout.  St.  Eustatia  taken  by  the  French. 
Approaching  meeting  of  Parliament.  Supposed  resignation  of 
Lord  George  Germain.  Reformation  of  German  nunneries. 
The  Jesuits. — The  King  of  Prussia  and  the  Czarina.  Popery- 
tottering.  The  world  on  the  eve  of  a  new  era.  Report  of  Lord 
George  Germain's  resignation  confirmed       .  .  .     351 

Feb.  7. — Cause  of  Lord  George  Germain's  resignation.  Changes 
and  appointments  in  the  Ministry.  Dearth  of  public  news. 
Prosecution  of  Lord  Sandwich.  Arrival  in  England  of  Lord 
Cornwallis  and  Arnold.  Horrible  accident  by  fire  in  the  City. 
Walpole's  health  and  regimen.  His  recluse  life.  Allegranti 
the  singer.  Pacchiarotti.  The  Pope  and  the  Great-Duke. 
The  inquiry  on  Lord  Sandwich.  The  Due  de  Chartres.  Re- 
port of  the  taking  of  Minorca       ....     355 

Feb.  25. — Renewal  of  the  attack  on  Lord  Sandwich  defeated  by 
a  majority.  Motion  for  peace  with  America.  Remarks  on  the 
Administration.  Prints  of  the  Medici.  The  Emperor  of  Ger- 
many and  the  Pope.  Ecclesiastical  reform.  Trial  of  Lady 
Worseley  for  adultery.  Anecdote  of  Lord  North.  Sir  Horace 
Mann  made  Minister  Plenipotentiary.  The  besieged  men  of 
Minorca.  Mr.  Morrice.  Death  of  Lady  Brown.  Lord  Orford. 
Cavalier  Mozzi.  Cipriani  the  painter.  Picture  of  the  story  of 
Theodore  and  Honoria,  from  Dryden's  Fables.  Lord  Orford's 
sketches.  Court  life.  Retrospection  of  the  last  fifty  years. 
Reflections  .....     360 

March  1. — The  Opposition.  Renewed  motion  for  an  address  of 
pacification  with  America.  Excellence  of  Mr.  Conway's  poli- 
tical character.  Expectation  of  great  changes.  Desires  for 
peace  ......     367 

March  11. — Proceedings  in  Parliament.  The  Opposition.  Ru- 
moured successes  of  Admiral  Hood.  Lord  North's  taxes. 
Critical  state  of  the  Ministers  with  regard  to  America.  Loss  of 
Minorca.  Miseries  attendant  on  Ministers.  (March  16.) — The 
new  taxes.  Rumours  of  Lord  North  resigning.  Parliamentary 
debates.  Futility  of  conjecture.  The  Marquis  of  Rockingham. 
Naval  affairs.  Sir  Horace  Mann's  preferment.  No  fresh 
news  ......     370 

March  21.  —  Inclemency  of  the  weather.  The  Administration 
dissolved.  Remarks  on  the  suddenness  of  the  event,  and  on 
the  character    of  the  Administration.     Sir    Horace  Mann,  jun. 


CONTENTS.  XIX 

PAGE 

Walpole's  desires  for  peace.  His  plan  of  life,  (March  22.)— 
Measures  for  a  new  Administration.     Lord  Shelburne  .     370 

March  26.—Interministerium.  Formation  of  a  new  Ministry. 
Lord  Shelburne  and  Lord  Rockingham.  List  of  the  Cabinet. 
Reflections  upon  politics  and  freedom.  Illness  of  Lady  William 
Campbell.  The  island  of  St.  Christopher's  taken  by  the 
French  .  .  .  .  .  .381 

April  7. — The  loss  of  Minorca  thought  little  of  in  England. 
General  Murray  and  the  Due  de  Crillon.  The  new  Ministry 
popular.  Ministerial  appointments.  Mrs.  Damer.  Lord  Or- 
ford  removed  from  the  Rangership  of  the  Parks.  Expected 
reconciliation  with  Holland.  Rupture  with  Ireland.  Iniquities 
of  the  late  Administration  ....     385 

May  5. — New  appointments  and  preferments.  Success  of  Admiral 
Harrington.  Bills  of  Reformation  in  the  House  of  Commons. 
Sir  Thomas  Rumholcl.  Unsettled  state  of  Ireland.  Marriage 
of  one  of  the  Duchess  of  Gloucester's  daughters.  Coldness  of 
the  spring.  Bon-mot  of  George  Selwyn.  The  Pope  and  the 
Emperor  of  Germany.  Character  of  the  new  Administration. 
Brilliant  talents  of  Mr.  Fox.  Mr.  Conway  at  the  head  of  the 
army.  Stupidity  of  Lord  Amherst.  Lord  Sandwich.  Wretched 
policy  of  the  late  Administration  .  .  .     391 


LETTERS 


FROM 


THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 


TO 


SIR   HORACE  MANN. 


LETTER  CCLXII. 

Arlington  Street,  Dec.  20,  1776. 

I  cannot  write  to  you  myself,  my  dear  sir,  for  I  have 
the  gout  in  my  right  hand  and  wrist,  and  feel  enough 
of  it  about  me  to  fear  that  it  will  make  its  general  tour  ; 
which,  by  this  third  year's  experience,  seems  to  have 
grown  annual  instead  of  biennial  :  however,  I  am  still 
so  partial  to  the  bootikins,  as  to  believe  that  it  is  they 
that  save  me  from  having  near  so  much  pain  as  other 
gouty  people  complain  of;  and,  while  I  do  not  suffer 
much,  there  is  no  great  hardship  in  an  old  man's  being 
confined  to  his  own  house.  It  is  not,  however,  to  talk 
of  myself  that  I  send  you  this  ;  but  to  tell  you  that  I 
have  received  your  letter  for  Lord  North,  and,  as  I 
could  not  carry  it  myself,  I  sent  it  to  him  by  a  friend, 
and  do  not  doubt  but  so  just  a  request  will  be  at- 
tended to. 

VOL.  III. NEW   SERIES.  R 


2  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

It  looks  very  much  as  if  we  should  kuow  soou  whe- 
ther America  is  to  be  subdued  or  saved  by  a  French 
war.  We  heard  on  Tuesday  last  that  Dr.  Franklin 
himself  was  landed  in  France — no  equivocal  step  ;* 
and  on  Wednesday  came  a  full  explanation.  General 
Howe  had  made  two  movements,  which  threatened  en- 
closing Washington,  and  cutting  him  off  from  his  ma- 
gazines :  a  small  engagement  ensued,  in  which  the 
Americans  were  driven  from  a  post  without  much  loss 
on  either  side.  Washington  has  since  retired  with  his 
whole  army  to  other  heights,  about  five  miles  off,  seem- 
ing to  intend  to  protract  the  war,  as  was  always  thought 
would  be  their  wisest  way  ;  but,  as  the  Americans  do 
not  behave  very  heroically,  and  as  the  King's  fleet  will 
now  be  masters  of  the  coast,  it  is  supposed  that  Wash- 
ington must  retire  northward,  and  that  the  Howes  will 
make  great  progress  in  the  south,  if  not  prevented  by 
the  rigour  of  the  season.  As  nearly  as  I  can  make 
out,  Dr.  Franklin  must  have  sailed  a  day  or  two  after 
Washington's  retreat ;  f  and  therefore  it  is  natural  to 

*  In  September,  1776,  three  Commissioners  were  appointed  by  Con- 
gress to  take  charge  of  the  affairs  of  America  in  Europe,  and  endeavour 
to  procure  a  treaty  of  alliance  with  France.  The  Commissioners  were 
Dr.  Franklin,  Silas  Deane,  and  Arthur  Lee.  The  Commission  continued 
till  February,  1778,  when  a  treaty  of  amity  and  commerce,  and  also  a 
treaty  of  alliance,  were  concluded,  and  Dr.  Franklin  appointed  Minister 
Plenipotentiary  to  the  Court  of  France. — Ed. 

t  Washington's  retreat  took  place  about  the  20th  of  October,  and 
Dr.  Franklin  sailed  from  Philadelphia  on  the  26th,  and  reached  Paris  on 
the  21st  of  December.  Madame  du  Deffand,  in  a  letter  to  Walpole  of 
the  18th,  says,  "  The  object  of  M.  Franklin's  visit  remains  a  problem  ; 
and,  what  is  still  more  singular,  nobody  can  tell  whether  he  is  actually  in 
Paris  or  not.     For  the  last  three  or  four  days,  we  have  been  told  in  the 


TO    SIR   HORAOK   MANN.  3 

conclude  that  lie  is  conic  to  tell  France,  that  she 
mast  directly  interpose  and  protect  the  Americans,  or 
that  the  Americans  must  submit  to  such  terms  as  they 
can  obtain.  If  I  am  not  wrong  in  my  reasons,  the 
question  is  thus  brought  to  a  short  issue,  and  there  I 
leave  it.'""  I  am  never  fond  of  speculations,  and  not  at 
all  so  when  I  am  not  quite  well.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCLXIII. 

Arlington  Street,  Jan.  24,   1777. 

In  my  last,  a  month  ago,  I  told  you  I  had  the 
gout.  It  is  now  gone,  and  I  have  been  once  out  to 
take  the  air.  As  I  love  to  make  the  best  of  every- 
thing, I  call  this  a  short  and  favourable  fit,  having,  from 
its  first  moment  to  my  airing,  lasted  but  six  weeks  ; 

morning  that  he  had  arrived,  and  in  the  evening  that  he  had  not  yet 
come."  On  the  22nd  she  again  wrote,  "  Yesterday  Franklin  arrived  at 
two  in  the  afternoon.  He  slept  the  night  hefore  at  Versailles.  He  was 
accompanied  by  two  of  his  grandsons,  one  seven  years  old,  the  other 
seventeen,  and  by  his  friend,  M.  Penet.  He  has  taken  lodgings  in  the 
Rue  de  l'Universite."— Ed. 

*  Mr.  Burke,  in  a  letter  of  the  6th  of  January,  to  the  Marquis  of 
Rockingham,  throws  out  the  following  conjecture  as  to  the  object  of 
Franklin's  visit.  "  I  persuade  myself  he  is  come  to  Paris  to  draw  from 
that  Court  a  definitive  and  satisfactory  answer  concerning  the  support  of 
the  Colonies.  If  he  cannot  get  such  an  answer  (and  I  am  of  opinion 
that,  at  present,  he  cannot),  then  it  is  to  be  presumed  he  is  authorized  to 
negotiate  with  Lord  Stormont  on  the  basis  of  dependence  on  the  Crown. 
This  I  take  to  be  his  errand  ;  for  I  never  can  believe  that  he  has  come 
thither  as  a  fugitive  from  his  cause  in  the  hour  of  its  distress,  or  that  he 
is  going  to  conclude  a  long  life,  which  has  brightened  every  hour  it  has 
continued,  with  so  foul  and  dishonourable  a  flight." — Ed. 

b  2 


4  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

and,  though  I  had  it  in  both  hands,  wrists,  and  elbows, 
there  was  not  much  pain  for  above  thirty  hours;  and 
my  feet  escaped.  These  douceurs  I  attribute  to  the  boot- 
ikins.  It  is  true  that,  for  the  last  three  years,  the  fits 
have  been  annual,  instead  of  biennial ;  but  if  they  are 
split  into  more  frequent,  though  much  shorter  portions,  I 
must  still  be  satisfied ;  for  could/  go  through  five  months 
and  a  half  of  pain  %  I  am  already  so  shattered  with  these 
attacks,  that  my  nerves  are  as  alarmable  as  the  sensi- 
tive plant.  The  clapping  of  a  door  makes  me  start 
and  tremble  ;  and  yet  I  don't  find  my  spirits  affected. 
In  fact,  my  inside  is  so  strong,  and  the  case  so  very 
weak,  that  I  believe  the  cottage  will  tumble  down,  and 
I  shall  have  nothing  but  the  inside  left.  I  am  think- 
ing of  going  to  Bath  or  to  the  sea-side,  which  has  often 
been  of  service  ;  not,  to  say  the  truth,  that  I  suppose 
it  will,  but  one  is  to  try,  and  to  pretend  to  suppose  it 
will.  Old  people  always  talk  as  if  they  expected  cures 
— but  surely  they  cannot ;  surely  they  cannot  forget 
how  they  used  to  laugh  at  their  seniors  who  had  such 
idle  hopes  !     But  enough,  and  too  much  of  myself. 

The  tide  of  victories  continues  :  Fort  Washington 
was  taken  at  the  end  of  the  year,  and  Rhode  Island 
since.  A  great  deal  is  still  to  do,  and  not  much  less  if 
the  war  was  over.  It  does  not  appear  yet  that  Dr. 
Franklin  has  persuaded  France  to  espouse  America 
openly.  One  hears  a  great  deal  of  underhand  support, 
and  in  general  the  disposition  of  the  French  for  war 
with  us ;  but  I  never  believe  but  on  facts,  seldom  re- 
ports, and  seldomer  prophecies  and  conjectures  ;  chance 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  5 

being  the  great  mistress  of  human  affairs  in  the  dernier 
ressort. 

The  Parliament  is  met,  but,  as  the  Opposition  does 
not  attend,  for  these  last  two  days  they  could  not  get 
a  House  of  one  hundred  members;  which  is  necessary, 
since  Mr.  Grenville's  Bill,  if  an  election  is  to  be  heard. 
We  were  alarmed  on  Sunday  with  an  account  of  Bris- 
tol being  in  flames,  and  of  several  attempts  to  fire  that 
city  and  Portsmouth."""  It  turns  out  almost  nothing  at 
all,  and  not  above  the  pitch  of  insurers.  There  was  a 
silly  story  of  two  new-invented  engines  for  firing  being 
found  in  the  lodgings  of  the  supposed  incendiary,  to- 
gether with  an  account  of  the  St.  Barthelemi  and  Dr. 
Price's  pamphlet  for  the  Americans,  f  If  true,  it  indi- 
cated a  madman. 

*  These  attempts  to  fire  Bristol  and  Portsmouth  were  the  work  of  the 
wretched  incendiary,  James  Aitken,  commonly  called  John  the  Painter. 
After  committing  numerous  highway  robberies,  burglaries,  and  petty 
thefts,  he  shipped  himself  off  to  America,  where  he  continued  three 
years.  On  his  return,  he  formed  the  detestable  design  of  destroying  the 
maritime  force  of  England  by  setting  fire  to  the  royal  dock-yards,  and 
burning  the  principal  trading  cities  and  towns,  with  their  shipping. 
For  this  purpose  he  took  extraordinary  pains  in  the  construction  of  his 
fireworks  and  combustibles ;  and  it  was  owing  to  the  unaccountable 
failure  in  one  of  his  infernal  machines,  that  the  nation  was  saved  from 
so  dreadful  a  shock.  He  succeeded  in  setting  fire  to  the  rope-house  at 
Portsmouth,  but  failed  in  his  attempt  on  Bristol,  where  he  only  destroyed 
six  or  seven  warehouses.  He  was  tried  at  Winchester  in  March,  and 
conveyed  for  execution  to  Portsmouth  dock-gate.  Before  he  was  turned 
off  he  acknowledged  the  justice  of  his  sentence,  and  recommended  strict 
vigilance  at  all  the  dock-yards,  "  because,"  he  said,  "  it  was  in  the  power 
of  any  determined,  resolute  man  to  do  a  great  deal  of  mischief." — Ed. 

f  This  celebrated  pamphlet  was  entitled  "  Observations  on  the  Na- 
ture of  Civil  Liberty,  the  Principles  of  Government,  and  the  Justice  and 
Policy  of  the  War  with  America."     It  was   circulated  with  profusion, 


6  THE  HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

Your  lord  paramount,  the  Emperor,  *  is  coming  to 
Paris  :  he  does  not  come  hither — he  needs  not.  We 
have  transplanted  the  flowers  of  our  follies  thither 
— horse -racing  and  gaming  ;  and  our  chief  missionaries 
preside  over  the  rites,  f  My  poor  hand  is  so  weak  that 
you  must  dispense  with  my  writing  you  no  longer  a 
letter.  For  eight  days  I  underwent  the  humiliation  of 
being  fed  ;  and,  when  one  comes  to  one's  pap  again,  no 
wonder  one  thinks  one's  self  ancient !     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCLXIV. 

Arlington  Street,  Feb.  6,  1777. 

After  a  confinement  of  seven  weeks,  I  begin  to 
go  about  again.  I  feel  no  great  joy  in  my  liberty  ; 
and,  had  I  any  excuse  for  bringing  people  to  me,  I 
should  not  feel  concerned  to  live  at  home  ;  for  all 

and,  for  writing  it,  the  Common  Council  of  London  voted  the  Doctor 
their  thanks,  and  presented  him  with  the  freedom  of  the  city  in  a  gold 
box.  Being  translated  into  the  Dutch  language,  it  is  supposed  to  have 
influenced  the  Hollanders  in  withdrawing  their  property  from  the  British 
funds.     It  was  repeatedly  quoted  in  both  Houses. — Ed. 

*  Joseph  II.,  Emperor  of  Germany  and  brother  of  Marie  Antoinette, 
Queen  of  France,  arrived  at  Paris  in  the  middle  of  April.  Under  the 
name  of  Count  Falkenstein  he  lived  and  travelled  like  a  very  pri- 
vate gentleman.  He  visited  but  little  at  Court,  and  spent  no  part  of  his 
time  in  forms  ;  but  laid  it  out,  with  the  attention  of  a  philosopher  and 
the  inquisitiveness  of  a  statesman,  in  examining  the  different  establish- 
ments of  that  country. — Ed. 

f  The  sport  of  horse-racing,  with  a  mixture  of  gambling,  was  at  this 
time  greatly  on  the  increase  in  France.  There  had  recently  been  two  in 
one  day :    the   first    between    the   Prince  de    Nassau  and   the  Marquis 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  7 

England  is  a  public  place,  and  nothing  so  difficult  to 
find  as  any  private  society.  Everything  is  changed; 
as  always  must  happen  when  one  grows  old,  and  is 
prejudiced  to  one's  old  ways.  I  do  not  like  dining  at 
nearly  six,  nor  beginning  the  evening  at  ten  at  night. 
If  one  does  not  conform,  one  must  live  alone  ;  and  that 
is  more  disagreeable  and  more  difficult  in  town  than 
in  the  country,  where  old  useless  people  ought  to  live. 
Unfortunately,  the  country  does  not  agree  with  me  ; 
and  I  am  sure  it  is  not  fancy ;  for  my  violent  partiality 
to  Strawberry  Hill  cannot  be  imposed  upon.  I  am 
persuaded  that  it  is  the  dampness  of  this  climate  that 
gives  me  so  much  gout ;  and  London,  from  the  number 
of  fires  and  inhabitants,  must  be  the  dryest  spot  in  the 
nation. 

There  is  nothing  new  of  any  sort.  As  there  is  no 
Opposition,  there  is  no  Parliament ;  I  mean  none  that 
is  talked  of  more  than  the  Assizes.  In  America  the 
campaign  seems  to  be  over.  It  is  to  be  very  warm 
next  summer  ;  but  there  will  be  a  spring  between  of 
some  consequence.  Then  will  be  seen  what  we  are  to 
expect  from  France.  Your  brother,  the  Emperor,  has 
put  off  his  journey  thither  :  some  think,  rebuffed  from 
Versailles ;  others,  that  storms  are  brewing  in  the 
North,  or  deaths'""  approaching  that  will  open  the 
flood-gates.     I  but  just  touch  these  points;  for  I  have 

de  Fenelon,  who  both  rode  their  own  horses  ;  the  other  between  the 
Due  de  Chartres  and  the  Due  de  Lauzun.  Louis  XVI.  and  Marie  An- 
toinette were  present.  Of  the  six  exalted  individuals  four  perished,  a 
few  years  after,  by  the  guillotine  ! — Ed. 

*  Probability  of  the  death  of  the  King  of  Prussia. 


8  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

no  private  intelligence  from  every  Court  in  Europe. 
I  can  see  very  little  way  into  futurity,  and  when  I 
think  I  do,  I  am  commonly  mistaken.  That  this  coun- 
try is  stark  mad  in  every  respect,  I  am  very  clear ;  a 
death  that  great  countries  are  apt  to  die  of.  I  have 
but  few  years  to  come,  have  no  children  to  leave,  and 
therefore  it  is  no  wonder  that  the  natural  insensibility 
of  age  increases  upon  me,  as  well  as  the  disposition  to 
censure  and  to  augur  ill.  In  common  life  one  thinks 
many  persons  dying  before  they  do  die — yet  they  do 
die  too.  One  is  still  more  in  the  right,  though  per- 
haps not  so  soon  as  one  expects  to  be,  when  one  fore- 
tells that  such  an  one  will  kill  himself  by  his  intem- 
perance. Some  will  think  that,  as  our  doctors  have 
given  us  over,  there  is  a  better  chance  of  our  recover- 
ing. It  is  true,  I  have  no  opinion  of  our  doctors — the 
Opposition  ;  still  I  think  the  patient  is  in  a  most  de- 
plorable way,  and,  as  in  consumptions,  he  has  no  sense 
of  his  danger.  Look  you  :  all  this  may  be  speculation 
and  vision  ;  I  do  not  trouble  myself  about  the  credit 
of  my  oracle.  If  I  did,  I  could  give  two  sides  to  my 
prophecy,  and  could  tell  you,  that  if  things  did  not 
turn  out  very  ill  one  way,  they  would  another  ;  and  I 
could  support  my  belief  with  an  oath  :  but  I  am  pretty 
indifferent  about  the  matter  when  I  cannot  help  it, 
and  have  no  more  notion  of  caring  about  what  will 
happen  ten  years  after  I  am  dead,  than  about  what 
will  happen  two  hundred.  We  have  been  in  an  un- 
natural state,  and  swelled  from  a  little  island  to  an 
empire  ;  but  I  doubt  the  island  will  not   shrink  just 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  9 

into  its  natural  corpulency  again  ;  and  there  is  a  new 
Held  for  speculation  !  Cut  I  am,  luckily,  at  the  end  of 
my  paper. 


LETTER  CCLXV. 

Arlington  Street,  Marcli  5th,  1777. 

My  last  has  already  told  you,  I  hope,  that  I  am 
entirely  recovered.  You  shall  believe,  if  you  please, 
that  a  moment  of  bootikins  weakened  you ;  but  allow 
me  to  be  certain  that  above  three  years  of  experience 
has  demonstrated  that  they  do  not  weaken  me ;  and  as 
to  all  reasonings  of  the  Italian  physicians,  why,  they 
are  still  more  ignorant  than  ours.  I  shall  not  argue 
with  them  or  you,  for  I  have  no  convert-making  zeal. 
I  content  myself  with  my  own  judgment  and  expe- 
rience for  my  own  use,  and  it  is  not  reasonable  to  ex- 
pect that  others  should  see  truth  with  my  eyes.  It 
has  rarely  happened  to  me  to  think  with  the  majority, 
and  I  have  so  much  respect  for  the  plural  number  as 
not  to  dispute  with  them.  There  never  were  more 
against  me  than  in  our  present  politics.  I  have  kept 
my  sentiments  pretty  much  to  myself,  but  nothing  has 
made  me  change  my  opinion.  At  present,  the  aspect 
is  not  as  if  I  had  been  totally  in  the  wrong.  The  cam- 
paign in  America  has  lost  a  great  deal  of  its  florid  com- 
plexion, and  General  Washington  is  allowed  by  both 


10  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

sides  not  to  be  the  worst  general  in  the  field.  The 
Stocks  are  grown  positive  that  we  shall  have  a  French 
war.  That  was  so  self-evident,  that  I  should  be 
ashamed  of  bragging  I  had  always  foreseen  it.  A 
child  might  foretell  many  of  the  consequences.  I  leave 
it  to  those  who  would  not  foresee  to  excuse  themselves 
as  they  can. 

The  Gazettes  will  tell  you  as  much  as  you  are 
allowed  to  know  or  believe.  If  you  do  not  under- 
stand them,  you  will  not  be  singular.  The  time  is 
coming,  I  doubt,  when  Truth  will  write  a  more  legible 
hand.  In  one  word,  the  retreat  of  the  Americans 
seems  to  have  been  wise ;  you  will  find  they  will 
fight  and  have  fought,  and  that,  when  we  believed 
Philadelphia  was  gone,  General  Howe  has  been  obliged 
to  contract  his  quarters.  I  should  think  less  than 
unlimited  submission'''"  would  content  us  at  present; 
and  I  leave  you  to  judge  whether  France  will  be 
omitted  in  the  negotiation,  and  whether  she  will  en- 
join the  Congress  to  be  very  tractable.  I  hope  there 
will  be  a  little  more  wisdom  in  making  the  peace 
than  there  was  in  making  the  war ;  but  they  who 
make  the  one,  do  not  always  consider  that  they  may 
not  be  equally  masters  to  make  the  other. 

There  is  scarcely  anything  of  private  news.  Two  old 
persons  that  you  remember  are  dead,  Sir  Thomas  Ro- 

*  Lord  George  Germain  declared  in  the  House  of  Commons,  when 
Secretary  of  State,  that  he  would  be  content  with  nothing  under  the  un- 
limited submission  of  America. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  11 

binson*  and  Lady  Shadwell  ;f  she  lived  to  ninety- 
six.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk,^  but  two  years  younger, 
is  recovered  from  a  dangerous  illness.  Lady  Ches- 
terfield §  has  had  a  stroke  of  palsy,  but  may  linger 
some  time  longer.  In  short,  my  dear  sir,  you  and 
I  can  only  talk  in  common  of  a  few  Methusalems, 
cock  and  hen ;  for,  as  to  the  travelling  boys  that 
you  get  acquainted  with  en  passant,  I  do  not.  I 
have  done  with  the  world,  except  parting  with  it 
in  form;  and  chiefly  pass  my  time  with  a  few  ac- 
quaintance or  alone  at  Strawberry  Hill,  where  I  never 
want  amusement.  My  old  age  is  as  agreeable  as  I 
desire  it:  oppressed  with  no  misfortunes,  disappoint- 
ments, or  infirmities, — for  I  am  determined  to  con- 
sider  the  gout   as   a   remedy   that   only    makes   my 

*  Sir  Thomas  Robinson,  of  Rokeby  in  Yorkshire,  who,  on  account  of 
his  stature,  was  commonly  called  "  Long  Sir  Thomas,"  and  also  to  distin- 
guish him  from  the  diplomatist,  Sir  Thomas  Robinson,  afterwards  Lord 
Grantham.  As  he  died  without  issue,  the  title  devolved  to  his  next 
brother.  Two  days  after  his  death,  his  fourth  brother,  Dr.  Richard 
Robinson,  Archbishop  of  Armagh,  was  created  Baron  Rokeby  of  Armagh. 
—Ed. 

f  Widow  of  Sir  John  Shadwell,  the  physician,  with  whom  she  had 
visited  Florence,  where  they  became  acquainted  with  Sir  Horace  Mann, 
and  also  with  Walpole.  Sir  John  was  a  spectator  of  the  great  eruption 
of  Mount  Vesuvius  in  1737,  and  published  an  account  of  it  in  the  Philo- 
sophical Transactions.  He  was  the  only  son  of  Shadwell,  the  dramatic 
poet,  and  filled  the  situation  of  physician  to  Queen  Anne,  George  I.  and 
George  II.  ;   by  the  former  of  whom  he  was  knighted. — Ed. 

%  Edward  Howard,  ninth  Duke  of  Norfolk.  He  died  on  the  20th  of 
September,  at  the  great  age  of  ninety-two. — Ed. 

§  Melusina  Schulembourg,  Countess  of  Walsingham,  niece  of  the 
Duchess  of  Kendal,  and  widow  of  the  celebrated  Philip  Stanhope,  Earl  of 
Chesterfield.     She  died  in  September,  1778. 


12  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

liberty  more  welcome ;  with  a  fortune  as  ample  as 
I  wish  either  for  pleasing  myself  or  for  doing  some 
kindnesses;  indifferent  to  pleasures  that  would  be 
ridiculous,  and  encumbered  with  no  glory  or  vanity 
that  would  impose  restraint  or  reserve  on  me.  I 
enjoy  the  remnant  with  cheerfulness,  and  think  I 
shall  lay  it  down  with  no  more  regret  than  what 
must  attend  parting  with  what  is  not  disagreeable. 
I  am  exceedingly  thankful  for  the  happiness  of  my 
lot,  and  own  it  has  been  far  greater  than  I  should 
have  dared  to  ask.  Can  I,  then,  but  be  content  when 
it  shall  terminate  1  This  is  the  thirty-seventh  year 
of  our  correspondence  :  we  are  the  Orestes  and  Py- 
lades  of  letter-writers,  yet  I  wish  our  meeting  had 
left  us  less  to  boast !     Adieu ! 

P.S.  I  must  add  a  curious  story,  which  I  believe  will 
surprise  your  Italian  surgeons,  as  much  as  it  has 
amazed  the  faculty  here.  A  sailor,  who  had  broken 
his  leg,  was  advised  to  communicate  his  case  to  the 
Koyal  Society.  The  account  he  gave  was,  that,  having 
fallen  from  the  top  of  the  mast  and  fractured  his  leg, 
he  had  dressed  it  with  nothing  but  tar  and  oakum,  and 
yet  in  three  days  was  able  to  walk  as  well  as  before  the 
accident.  The  story  at  first  appeared  quite  incredible, 
as  no  such  efficacious  qualities  were  known  in  tar,  and 
still  less  in  oakum;  nor  was  a  poor  sailor  to  be  cre- 
dited on  his  own  bare  assertion  of  so  wonderful  a 
cure.  The  society  very  reasonably  demanded  a  fuller 
relation,  and,  I  suppose,  the  corroboration  of  evidence. 
Many  doubted  whether  the  leg  had  been  really  broken. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  13 

That  part  of  the  story  had  been  amply  verified.  Still 
it  was  difficult  to  believe  that  the  man  had  made  use 
of  no  other  applications  than  tar  and  oakum ;  and  how 
they  should  cure  a  broken  leg  in  three  days,  even  if 
they  could  cure  it  at  all,  was  a  matter  of  the  utmost 
wonder.  Several  letters  passed  between  the  society 
and  the  patient,  who  persevered  in  the  most  solemn 
asseverations  of  having  used  no  other  remedies,  and  it 
does  appear  beyond  a  doubt  that  the  man  speaks  truth. 
It  is  a  little  uncharitable,  but  I  fear  there  are  sur- 
geons who  might  not  like  this  abbreviation  of  attend- 
ance and  expense.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  you  will  be 
charmed  with  the  plain  honest  simplicity  of  the  sailor : 
in  a  postscript  to  his  last  letter  he  added  these  words, 
"  I  forgot  to  tell  your  honours  that  the  leg  was  a 
wooden  one."  Was  there  ever  more  humour  %  What 
would  one  have  given  to  have  been  present,  and  seen 
the  foolish  faces  of  the  wise  assembly !  I  am  an  un- 
worthy member  of  that  learned  body,  and  never  at- 
tend their  meetings,  which  I  now  regret;  I  should 
have  been  paid  for  many  dull  hours  :  but  I  never 
had  patience  for  such  solemn  assemblies,  and  have 
neglected  that  of  the  Arts  and  Sciences,  as  well  as 
the  Royal.  I  shut  myself  entirely  out  of  the  An- 
tiquarian Society  and  Parliament,  the  archiepiscopal 
seats  of  folly  and  knavery. 


14  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCLXVI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  April  3,  1777. 

I  have  nothing  very  new  to  tell  yon  on  public 
affairs,  especially  as  I  can  know  nothing  more  than  you 
see  in  the  papers.     It  is  my  opinion  that  the  King's 
affairs  are  in  a  very  bad  position  in  America.     I  do 
not  say  that   his   armies   may    not   gain   advantages 
again ;  though  I  believe  there  has  been  as  much  de- 
sign  as   cowardice  in   the   behaviour  of  the   provin- 
cials, who  seem  to  have  been  apprized  that  protrac- 
tion of  the  war  would  be  more  certainly  advantageous 
to  them  than  heroism.     Washington,  the  dictator,  has 
shown  himself  both  a  Fabius  and  a  Camillus.  His  march 
through  our  lines  is  allowed  to  have  been  a  prodigy  of 
generalship.'''"     In  one  word,  I  look  upon  great  part  of 
America  as  lost  to  this  country !     It  is  not  less  de- 
plorable, that,  between  art  and  contention,    such   an 
inveteracy  has  been  sown  between  the  two  countries 
as  will  probably  outlast  even  the  war!      Supposing 
this  unnatural  enmity  should  not  soon  involve  us  in 
other   wars,    which   would   be   extraordinary   indeed, 

*  In  December,  when  the  cause  of  the  Americans  seemed  hopeless, 
the  English  commander,  having  extended  his  cantonments  to  a  prodi- 
gious length,  Washington  took  advantage  of  that  circumstance,  crossed 
the  Delaware  in  the  night,  surprised  the  left  wing  of  the  British  army, 
and,  attacking  a  body  of  Hessians  nearly  a  thousand  strong,  surprised 
them  so  completely  that  they  surrendered  and  were  captured.  Soon 
afterwards  he  gained  an  advantage,  also  in  the  dead  of  the  night,  over 
the  British  at  Prince-town. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  If) 

what  a  difference,  in  a  future  war  with  France  and 
Spain,  to  have  the  Colonies  in  the  opposite  scale, 
instead  of  being  in  ours !  What  politicians  are  those 
who  have  preferred  the  empty  name  of  sovereignty 
to  that  of  alliance,  and  forced  subsidies  to  the  golden 
ocean  of  commerce ! 

Alas  !  the  trade  of  America  is  not  all  we  shall  lose  ! 
The  ocean  of  commerce  wafted  us  wealth  at  the  return 
of  regular  tides  :  but  we  had  acquired  an  empire  too, 
in  whose  plains  the  beggars  we  sent  out  as  labourers 
could  reap  sacks  of  gold  in  three  or  four  harvests ;  and 
who  with  their  sickles  and  reaping-hooks  have  robbed 
and  cut  the  throats  of  those  who  sowed  the  grain. 
These  rapacious  foragers  have  fallen  together  by  the 
ears  ;  and  our  Indian  affairs,  I  suppose,  will  soon  be  in 
as  desperate  a  state  as  our  American.  Lord  Pigot  has 
been  treacherously  and  violently  imprisoned,  and  the 
Company  here  has  voted  his  restoration.  *  I  know  no- 
thing of  the  merits  of  the  cause  on  either  side  :  I  dare 
to  say,  both  are  very  blameable.  I  look  only  to  the 
consequences,  which  I  do  not  doubt  will  precipitate  the 
loss  of  our  acquisitions  there ;  the  title  to  which  I  never 
admired,  and  the  possession  of  which  I  always  regarded 

*  Lord  Pigot  had  been  appointed  Governor  of  Madras,  with  instruc- 
tions to  restore  the  Rajah  of  Tanjore,  under  certain  conditions  In  at- 
tempting to  carry  them  into  execution,  he  was  seized,  by  the  direction  of 
certain  members  of  his  own  council,  and  conveyed  to  a  place  called  the 
Mount ;  where  he  was  confined  in  the  strictest  manner.  Impaired 
by  age  and  an  Indian  climate,  the  constitution  of  Lord  Pigot  sank 
under  the  irritation  to  which  he  had  been  exposed  and  the  restraint  to 
which  he  was  subjected  ;  and  he  died  shortly  after,  the  prisoner  of  those 
over  whom  he  had  been  appointed  to  preside. — Ed. 


16  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

as  a  transitory  vision.  If  we  could  keep  it,  we  should 
certainly  plunder  it,  till  the  expense  of  maintaining 
would  overbalance  the  returns ;  and,  though  it  has  ren- 
dered a  little  more  than  the  holy  city  of  Jerusalem,  I 
look  on  such  distant  conquests  as  more  destructive  than 
beneficial ;  and,  whether  we  are  martyrs  or  banditti, 
whether  we  fight  for  the  holy  sepulchre  or  for  lacks  of 
rupees,  I  detest  invasions  of  quiet  kingdoms,  both  for 
their  sakes  and  for  our  own ;  and  it  is  happy  for  the 
former,  that  the  latter  are  never  permanently  bene- 
fited. 

Though  I  have  been  drawn  away  from  your  letter  by 
the  subject  of  it  and  by  political  reflections,  I  must 
not  forget  to  thank  you  for  your  solicitude  and  advice 
about  my  health  :  but  pray  be  assured  that  I  am  suffi- 
ciently attentive  to  it,  and  never  stay  long  here  in  wet 
weather,  which  experience  has  told  me  is  prejudicial. 
I  am  sorry  for  it,  but  I  know  London  agrees  with  me 
better  than  the  country.  The  latter  suits  my  age  and 
inclination  ;  but  my  health  is  a  more  cogent  reason, 
and  governs  me.  I  know  my  own  constitution  exactly, 
and  have  formed  my  way  of  life  accordingly.  No 
weather,  nothing  gives  me  cold  ;  because,  for  these  nine 
and  thirty  years,  I  have  hardened  myself  so,  by  braving 
all  weathers  and  taking  no  precautions  against  cold, 
that  the  extremest  and  most  sudden  changes  do  not 
affect  me  in  that  respect.  Yet  damp,  without  giving 
me  cold,  affects  my  nerves ;  and,  the  moment  I  feel  it,  I 
go  to  town.  I  am  certainly  better  since  my  last  fit  of 
gout  than  ever  I  was  after  one  :    in  short,  perfectly 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  17 

well ;  that  is,  well  enough  for  my  age.  In  one  word, 
I  am  very  weak,  but  have  no  complaint ;  and  as  my 
constitution,  frame,  and  health  require  no  exercise, 
nothing  but  fatigue  affects  me:  and  therefore  you,  and 
all  who  are  so  good  as  to  interest  themselves  about  me 
and  give  advice,  must  excuse  me  if  I  take  none.  I  am 
preached  to  about  taking  no  care  against  catching  cold, 
and  am  told  I  shall  one  day  or  other  be  caught — pos- 
sibly :  but  I  must  die  of  something  ;  and  why  should 
not  what  has  done  to  sixty,  be  right  %  My  regimen 
and  practice  have  been  formed  on  experience  and 
success.  Perhaps  a  practice  that  has  suited  the  weak- 
est of  frames,  would  kill  a  Hercules.  God  forbid  I 
should  recommend  it ;  for  I  never  saw  another  human 
being  that  would  not  have  died  of  my  darings,  especi- 
ally in  the  gout.  Yet  I  have  always  found  benefit ; 
because  my  nature  is  so  feverish,  that  everything  cold, 
inwardly  or  outwardly,  suits  me.  Cold  air  and  water 
are  my  specifics,  and  I  shall  die  when  I  am  not  master 
enough  of  myself  to  employ  them  ;  or  rather,  as  I  said 
this  winter,  on  comparing  the  iron  texture  of  my 
inside  with  the  debility  of  my  outside,  "  I  believe  I 
shall  have  nothing  but  my  inside  left !"  Therefore, 
my  dear  sir,  my  regard  for  you  will  last  as  long  as 
there  is  an  atom  of  me  remaining. 


VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES. 


18  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCLXVII. 

Barton  Mills,  April  28,  1777. 

After  an  interval  of  three  years,  in  which  my 
nephew  remained  as  much  in  his  senses  as  he  was  sup- 
posed to  be  before  his  declared  phrenzy,  he  was  seized 
a  fortnight  ago  with  a  fever  which  soon  brought  out  the 
colour  of  his  blood.     In  two  days  he  was  furious.    The 
low  wretches  by  whom  in  his  sensible  hours  he  has 
always  been  surrounded,  concealed  the  symptoms  till 
they  were  terrifying.     I  received  no  notice  till   the 
sixth  day,  and  then — by  the  stage-coach  !     I  set  out 
directly  for  the  hovel  where  he  is — a  pasnidge-\io\\s>Q, 
as  the  reverend  proprietor  "*  called  it  to  me,  on  the 
edge  of  the  fens,  which  my  lord  hires,  and  is  his  usual 
residence.     The  single   chamber  without  a  bed  is  a 
parlour  seven  feet  high,  directly  under  my  lord's  bed- 
chamber, without  shutters,  and  so  smoky  that  there  is 
no  sitting  in  it  unless  the  door  is  open.     I  am  forced 
to  lie  here,  five  miles  off,  in  an  inn — a  palace  to  his 
dwelling.     The  morning  after  my  arrival,  a  physician  I 
had  sent  for  from  Norwich,  forty  miles  from  hence,  coming 
down  to  tell  me  how  he  had  found  my  lord,  we  were 
alarmed  with  a  scream  and  a  bustle.     The  doctor  had 
ordered  the  window  to  be  opened  to  let  out  the  smoke, 

*  One  Ball,  Minister  of  Eriswell,  a  jockey-parson.  He  having  taken 
his  doctor's  degree  in  an  interval  of  his  correspondence  with  Mr.  Walpole 
on  Lord  Orford's  transactions  about  the  parsonage-house,  and  Mr.  Wal- 
pole directing  his  letter  to  him,  ignorant  of  his  titular  advancement,  "  To 
Mr.  Ball,"  the  man  in  his  answer  was  so  absurd  as  to  add  a  postscript  in 
these  words,  "  Dr.  Ball,  if  you  please,  the  next  time  you  favour  me." 


TO    SIR  HORACE   MANN.  10 

and,  the  moment  he  had  quitted  his  patient,  my  lord 
attempted  to  fling  himself  out  of  the  window,  hut 
was  prevented  by  his  keeper  and  servants,  who  flung 
him  on  the  bed.  You  will  scarcely  believe  that,  on  my 
arrival,  his  mistress,  his  steward,  and  a  neighbouring 
parson  of  the  confederacy,  on  my  declaring  I  should 
remove  him  directly  to  London  for  proper  assistance, 
cried  out,  that  I  should  kill  him  if  I  conveyed  him  from 
that  Paradise  in  which  was  all  his  delight,  and  where 
he  has  so  long  swallowed  every  apple  that  every  ser- 
pent has  offered  to  him.  The  very  day  before  he  had 
asked  where  he  was. 

At  the  desire  of  the  Norwich  physician,  I  sent  for 
Dr.  Jebb  from  London. *  Before  he  came,  the  fever  was 
gone,  and  an  interval  of  sense  was  returned.  Yet,  as 
before,  he  would  only  speak  in  a  whisper,  and  could 
not  be  persuaded  to  show  his  tongue  to  Dr.  Jebb, 
though  he  made  rational  answers.  Dr.  Jebb  pro- 
nounced, that  he  had  neither  fever  nor  understanding. 
He  has  had  a  slight  return  of  the  former,  and  no  de- 
lirium. Yet  both  his  physicians,  the  apothecary,  and 
even  his  mistress,  think  his  disorder  will  still  last  some 
weeks.  Perhaps  it  may  not  ;  nor  is  it  the  worst  con- 
sideration that  he  will  have  these  relapses  :  as  this 
arrived  in  very  cold  weather,  and  from  no  apparent 
cause,  the  madness  is  evidently  constitutional,  and 
leaves  both  himself  and  his  family  with  all  their  appro- 

*  Dr.  Richard  Jebb.  In  the  following  year  the  King  conferred  the 
honour  of  a  baronetage  upon  him,  in  consideration  of  his  attention  to  the 
Duke  of  Gloucester  during  his  severe  illness  in  Italy. — Ed. 

c  2 


20  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

hensions.  Mine  are,  that  as  both  now  and  formerly 
he  has  betrayed  mischievous  designs,  he  will  after  some 
lucid  interval  destroy  himself;  and  I  have  seen  that 
the  crew  about  him  will  not  call  in  help  till  perhaps 
too  late.  They  had  not  even  sent  for  a  physician ;  be- 
cause, as  they  told  me,  my  lord  (a  lunatic)  has  no 
opinion  of  physicians.  Judge  of  my  distress  !  My 
brother  and  I  have  too  much  tenderness  and  delicacy 
to  take  out  the  statute  of  lunacy.  All  my  care  and 
attention  to  him,  his  mistress,  and  fortune,  in  his  for- 
mer illness,  have  not  made  the  smallest  impression.  I 
have  not  even  seen  him  these  three  years,  though  he 
declared  on  his  recovery  that  he  approved  all  I  had 
done ;  and  I  must  say  that  I  meant  to  set  an  example 
of  tenderness  which,  I  believe,  was  never  seen  before  in 
a  parallel  case.  I  cannot  resent  it  from  him  ;  for  his 
misfortune  acquits  him  of  everything.  I  had  greatly 
improved  his  fortune,  and  should  have  effected  much 
more,  had  he  not  instantly  taken  everything  out  of  my 
hands.  This  treatment,  and  many  such  reasons,  had 
determined  me  never  more  to  meddle  with  his  affairs  : 
indeed,  the  fatigue,  joined  to  my  apprehension,  had  half 
killed  me.  I  had  done  everything  at  my  own  risk, 
and  some  things  at  my  own  cost.  Thus,  without  the 
sanction  of  law,  which  I  will  not  claim  for  my  lord's 
sake,  I  could  not  undertake  his  affairs  again.  I  now 
declared  I  would  take  on  me  the  care  of  his  person  and 
health,  but  never  of  his  fortune— what  will  become  of 
that,  I  know  not !  My  own  peace,  at  the  end  of  my 
life,  and  broken  as  I  am,  must  weigh  something.     I 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  21 

have,  from  the  instant  my  lord  came  of  age,  laboured  to 
serve  him — in  vain.  I  have  struggled  hard  to  rescue 
and  restore  my  family  ;  a  proud  view,  perhaps,  yet  as 
reasonable  as  most  we  have  !  Vision  for  vision.  That 
insubstantial  and  transitory  one,  called  Philosophy, 
that  is,  indifference,  is,  I  suppose,  the  best.  What  are 
distant  views  in  this  world  %  To  be  realized  when  we 
are  past  knowing  it.  How  idle  are  hopes  about  futurity, 
whether  about  our  family  or  our  country  ;  and  how 
little  different  in  duration  and  extent,  when  compared 
with  the  succession  of  ages  !  If  we  hope  our  name  and 
race,  or  if,  on  a  grander  scale,  we  wish  the  constitution 
of  our  country  may  last,  are  not  those  lofty  views  con- 
fined to  two  or  three  hundred  years,  which  are  but  a 
moment  in  the  revolution  of  endless  centuries  %  The 
moment  we  step  beyond  the  diminutive  sphere  of  our 
familiar  ideas,  all  is  boundless  and  lost  in  immensity  ! 
— I  descend  to  earth,  to  me  and  my  little  concerns. 

I  shall  stay  here  to  see  the  physician  from  Norwich 
to-morrow.  If  he  pronounces,  as  I  expect,  that  my 
lord  is  recovered,  I  shall  take  my  leave,  and  resign 
him  to  the  rudder  of  his  own  poor  brain.  I  pity  him, 
but  it  must  be  so.  My  character  and  Sir  Edward's  are 
at  stake,  and  to  preserve  them  we  must  obey  the  law 
literally.  The  last  time,  the  moment  the  physicians 
pronounced  him  sane,  we  submitted  and  threw  open 
his  doors;  though  neither  of  us  were  of  that  opinion. 
I  attended  him  to  Houghton,  and  saw  nothing  but 
evidence  of  distraction.  The  gentlemen  of  the  coun- 
try came  to  congratulate  him  on  his  recovery  ;  yet,  for 


22  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

more  than  six  weeks,  he  would  do  nothing  but  speak 
in  the  lowest  voice,  and  would  whisper  to  them  at  the 
length  of  the  table,  when  the  person  next  to  him  could 
not  distinguish  what  he  said.  Every  evening,  pre- 
cisely at  the  same  hour,  sitting  round  a  table,  he  would 
join  his  forehead  to  his  mistress's  (who  is  forty,  red- 
faced,  and  with  black  teeth,  and  with  whom  he  has 
lived  these  twenty  years),  and  there  they  would  sit  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  like  two  parroquets,  without  speak- 
ing. Every  night,  from  seven  to  nine,  he  regularly,  for 
the  whole  fortnight,  made  his  secretary  of  militia,  an 
old  drunken,  broken  tradesman,  read  Statius  to  the 
whole  company,  though  the  man  could  not  hiccup  the 
right  quantity  of  the  syllables.  Imagine  what  I  suf- 
fered !  One  morning  I  asked  the  company,  before  my 
lord  was  up,  how  they  found  him  ?  They  answered, 
just  as  he  had  always  been.  Then,  thought  I,  he  has 
always  been  distracted. 

Forgive  my  tiring  you  with  these  details  !  They 
have  rushed  into  my  memory  again,  and  I  cannot  help 
venting  them.  I  must  expel  them  once  more  ;  though 
every  sudden  knock  at  my  door  at  an  unusual  hour 
will  terrify  me,  as  it  did  for  thirteen  months  three 
years  ago.  I  have  gone  the  round  of  all  my  thoughts, 
and  can  rest  on  no  plan.  Were  families  to  have  more 
power,  it  would  be  abused ;  and,  as  the  law  has  fixed 
the  criterion  of  sense,  no  private  man  for  the  best 
purposes  must  or  can  control  it.  I  have  done  all  I  can  ; 
which  is,  to  warn  my  lord's  dependants  of  the  danger 
of  concealing  the  first  symptoms  of  his  infirmity  ;  and 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  23 

have  endeavoured  to  alarm  them,  for  their  own  sakes, 
with  the  risk  of  his  not  observing  rigid  temperance. 
Their  interest  in  his  health  must  combat  their  interest 
in  flattering  him.     Adieu  ! 

Arlington  Street,  May  2. 

The  Norwich  physician  said  he  found  my  lord  so 
much  better,  that  I  left  him  two  days  ago  ;  though  his 
mistress  desired  I  would  leave  the  keeper,  at  least  for 
a  month. 


LETTER  CCLXVIII. 

Arlington  Street,  May  14,  1777. 

Your  last  has  given  me  both  pain  and  pleasure. 
I  know  the  gout  too  well  not  to  suffer  for  you  ;  though, 
when  it  begins  but  late  in  life,  it  is  never  very  violent, 
and  certainly  is  very  wholesome  discipline.  It  is  ten 
times  worse  to  have  ceremony  and  princes  to  struggle 
with  at  such  a  moment ;  and  I  tremble  lest  your 
efforts  against  an  enemy  that  will  not  bear  an  instant 
of  contradiction,  should  have  redoubled  your  torment. 
Oh !  death  itself  does  not  regard  princes  less  than  the 
gout  does.  Then,  on  the  other  hand,  I  am  charmed 
with  the  Duke's  condescension;""  and  the  more,  as  he  will 
have  witnessed  your  disability.  I  am  sure,  in  some 
ministers,  he  might  with  reason  have  suspected  your 
confinement  was  political. 

You  do  not  owe  to  me,  I  assure  you,  the  Duchess's 

*  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Gloucester  were  then  at  Florence. 


24  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

graciousness.  I  did  not  even  imagine  they  would  pass 
through  Florence.  She  has  not  at  all  forgotten  that 
she  was  not  royally  born,  and  her  good-nature  and 
familiarity  are  not  expelled  by  dignity.  I  am  sure 
you  found  her  as  easy  and  natural,  as  if  she  had  not 
married  even  Lord  Waldegrave.  When  she  left  Eng- 
land, her  beauty  had  lost  no  more  than  her  good  qua- 
lities. I  am  glad  your  Court"*  have  behaved  as  they 
ought.  I  am  glad  the  English  see  that  there  is  no  nation 
so  contemptibly  servile  as  our  own.  Europe,  that  has 
hated  our  fierte,  is  reaping  revenge  fast.  Our  Western 
sun  is  setting,  and  dark  clouds  hang  over  our  East. 
France  and  Spain  have  spoken  pretty  intelligibly. 
The  former  offered  us  for  themselves,  and  for  the  lat- 
ter, a  naval  disarmament.  We  jumped  at  it ;  and 
France  coldly  answered,  that  Spain  would  not  come 
into  it.  So  a  war  is  sure,  whenever  they  think  us 
enough  undone  to  be  totally  ruined.  I  believe  a 
younger  minister  than  Monsieur  de  Maurepasf  would 
think  so  at  present. 

*  Leopold,  Grand-Duke  of  Tuscany,  son  of  Francis  of  Lorraine  and 
the  Empress  Queen  Maria  Theresa.  He  married  Maria  Louisa,  Infanta 
of  Spain.  Under  his  mild  and  parental  government,  which  continued 
twenty-five  years,  Tuscany  is  acknowledged  to  have  enjoyed  a  great  de- 
gree of  felicity,  as  well  as  prosperity.  His  political  conduct  was  distin- 
guished by  his  simplification  of  the  laws,  remission  of  oppressive  taxes, 
some  regulations  for  the  comfort  of  strangers  in  his  dominion,  and  a 
readiness  of  access  to  his  own  subjects  of  all  ranks.  In  1790,  he  suc- 
ceeded his  brother,  Joseph  II.,  as  Emperor  of  Germany,  and  died  in 
1792.— Ed. 

f  One  of  the  first  measures  of  Louis  XVI.,  on  his  accession  to  the 
throne  in  1774,  was  the  recall  of  the  Count  dc  Maurepas  to  Court; 
whence  he  had  been  banished  twenty-three  years.      He  had  formerly 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  25 

I  rejoice  that  you  have  got  your  nephew  again,  and 
Lady  Lucy,  and  that  she  is  so  much  better  than  you 
expected.  I  trust  Lord  Orford's  agreement  with  his 
grandfather's  creditors,  which  he  had  just  signed,  is 
good.  The  law  will  probably  think  so.  In  my  pri- 
vate opinion,  he  has  been  mad  these  twenty  years  and 
more.  On  his  coming  of  age,  I  obtained  a  fortune  of 
one  hundred  and  fifty-two  thousand  pounds  for  him  : 
he  would  not  look  at  her.  *     Had  I  remained  charged 

been  Minister  of  Marine  ;  the  superintendency  of  which  he  now  declined, 
but  accepted  a  seat  in  the  Privy  Council,  and  was  considered  the  chief 
mover  in  all  public  affairs.  Walpole,  in  a  letter  to  General  Conway,  de- 
scribes him  as  by  far  the  ablest  and  most  agreeable  man  he  knew  at  Paris. 
M.  de  Maurepas  was  at  this  time  in  his  seventy-seventh  year.  He  died  in 
1781.  His  "  Meinoires,"  in  four  volumes  octavo,  were  published  in 
1790-1792,  by  his  secretary,  M.  Salle.— Ed. 

*  Walpole  here  alludes  to  the  effort  made  by  him  in  1751  to  procure  a 
suitable  match  for  his  nephew.  The  nature  of  that  effort,  and  the  causes 
of  its  failure,  are  thus  stated  in  a  letter  to  Sir  Horace  Mann,  of  the  30th 
of  May  in  that  year  : — "  If  I  could  be  mortified  anew,  I  should  be  with 
a  new  disappointment.  The  immense  and  uncommon  friendship  of  Mr. 
Chute  had  found  a  method  of  saving  both  my  family  and  yours.  In 
short,  in  the  height  of  his  affliction  for  Whithed,  whom  he  still  laments 
immoderately,  he  undertook  to  get  Miss  Nicholl,  a  fortune  of  above 
150,000/.,  whom  Whithed  was  to  have  had,  for  Lord  Orford.  He  actu- 
ally persuaded  her  to  run  away  from  her  guardians,  who  used  her  inhu- 
manly, and  are  her  next  heirs.  How  clearly  he  is  justified,  you  will  see, 
when  I  tell  you  that  the  man,  who  had  eleven  hundred  a-year  for  her 
maintenance,  with  which  he  stopped  the  demands  of  his  own  creditors, 
instead  of  employing  it  for  her  maintenance  and  education,  is  since  gone 
into  the  Fleet.  After  such  fair  success,  Lord  Orford  has  refused  to 
marry  her  ;  why,  nobody  can  guess.  Thus  had  I  placed  him  in  a 
greater  situation  than  even  his  grandfather  hoped  to  bequeath  to  him, 
had  retrieved  all  the  oversights  of  my  family,  had  saved  Houghton  and 
all  our  glory  !  Now,  all  must  go  !  —  and  what  shocks  me  infinitely 
more,  Mr.  Chute,  by  excess  of  treachery,  is  embroiled  with  his  own 
brother." — Collective  Edition,  vol.  ii.  p.  338.  "  I  have  been  forced,"  he 
says,  in  another  letter,  "  to  write  an  account  of  the  whole  transaction,  and 


26  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

with  his  affairs  six  months  longer  on  his  last  illness,  he 
would  have  been  live  thousand  a-year  richer  than  the 
day  he  fell  ill.  My  reward  was,  not  to  see  him  for 
three  years.  But  I  see  I  cannot  help  talking  of  this. 
I  had  twice  expunged  all  thoughts  of  Houghton  and 
my  family  from  my  memory.  They  are  forced  on  me 
again  when  I  can  do  no  good.  Well,  it  was  not  my 
plan  of  old  age  to  pass  my  time  with  princes  or  mad- 
men !  Mine  has  been  a  chequered  life  of  very  various 
scenes !  But  it  has  taught  me  some  temper,  which  I 
was  not  born  with ;  and  the  best  of  all  lessons,  to  do 
right,  because  others  do  wrong.  It  is  not  enough  to 
be  indignant,  if  one  does  not  mend  one's  self.  I  had 
much  to  mend,  and  corrections  made  in  age  have  very 
little  grace.  One  seldom  conquers  one's  passions  till 
time  has  delivered  them  up  bound  hand  and  foot. 
Therefore  I  have  very  little  esteem  for  my  own  philo- 
sophy.    It  is  at  most  but  solicitude  to  make  a  decent 

have  been  kept  with  difficulty  from  publishing  it."  The  original  manu- 
script of  this  curious  document,  now  in  the  possession  of  Mr.  Bentley, 
is  entitled  "  A  Narrative  of  the  Proceedings  on  the  intended  Marriage 
between  Lord  Orford  and  Miss  Nicholl ;  in  a  Letter  addressed  to  Mrs. 
Harris,  my  Lord's  grandmother."  Miss  Nicholl  was  the  daughter  and 
sole  heiress  of  John  Nicholl,  of  Southgate  in  Middlesex,  Esq.  In  March 
1753  she  married  James,  Marquis  of  Caernarvon,  afterwards  third  and 
last  Duke  of  Chandos,  and  died  in  1768  without  issue.  That  Walpole's 
choice  was  in  every  respect  a  judicious  one,  would  appear  from  the  fol- 
lowing character  of  the  lady,  drawn  by  Sir  Egerton  Brydges : — "  Her 
great  abilities,  amiable  temper,  and  agreeable  person  qualified  her  to  have 
made  a  most  shining  figure  in  public  life  amongst  those  of  her  own  high 
rank  ;  but  her  natural  disposition,  joined  to  a  tender  and  delicate  consti- 
tution, induced  her  rather  to  cultivate  the  virtues  of  a  more  retired  life. 
Her  benevolence  extended  to  all  mankind  ;  her  charity  to  many  ;  her 
intimacy  only  to  a  few." — En. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  27 

exit,  and  applying  to  one's  character  what  Pope  makes 
an  expiring  beauty  say  of  her  face — 

"  One  would  not  sure  be  frightful  when  one  's  dead  !" 

Alas !  we  are  ridiculous  animals.  Folly  and  gravity 
equally  hunt  shadows.  The  deepest  politician  toils 
but  for  a  momentary  rattle.  There  is  nothing  worth 
wishing  for  but  the  smile  of  conscious  innocence  ;  and 
that  consciousness  would  make  the  smile  of  age  more 
beautiful  than  even  the  lovely  infant's  simplicity.  I 
possess  no  such  jewel;  but  one  may  admire  a  diamond, 
though  one  cannot  obtain  it.  You  see  how  my 
nephew  throws  my  mind  into  a  moral  train,  which  is 
naturally  more  gay  ;  and  my  wisdom  commonly  prefers 
accepting  the  vision  life  as  a  something,  to  analyzing- 
it.  But  one  is  the  creature  of  the  hour,  and  this  hap- 
pens to  be  a  serious  one.     Adieu  ! 

May  15. 

I  have  received  your  long  letter,  and  thank  you  for 
it  most  particularly ;  especially  for  one  part,  which  you 
may  guess  by  my  not  mentioning.  But  you  were  so 
pleased  with  the  Duchess's  manner,  that  you  forgot  her 
beauty  ;  which  I  thought  would  strike  you.  The  little 
Princess'5''  is  a  dear  soul,  and  I  do  not  intend  to  be  in- 
constant and  prefer  her  Brother  ;f  nor  do  I  think  the 
Duke  will. 

*  The  Princess  Sophia  Matilda,  born  at  Gloucester  House,  May  29, 
1773.— Ed. 

-f-  Prince  William  Frederick  of  Gloucester,  born  at  the  Thcodole 
Palace,  in  the  City  of  Rome,  January  15th,  1776.  On  the  death  of  his 
lather,  in  1805,  he  became  Duke  of  Gloucester  ;  and  in  1816,  married  the 
Princess  Mary,  fourth  daughter  of  George  III. — Ed. 


28  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

We  have  no  news.  France  has  imprisoned  the  crew 
of  a  privateer  that  took  one  of  our  pacquet-boats,*  and 
carried  it  into  Dunkirk.  She  is  determined  to  draw  us 
on  farther  on  the  hook,  and  we  dare  not  seem  to  suspect 
that  hook.  I  believe  America  gone  past  hope,  unless 
we  can  recover  it  with  half  the  number  that  was  not 
sufficient  last  year.  Adieu  !  I  shall  be  impatient  to 
hear  you  are  recovered.  Your  new  Prince  of  Nassau  f 
is  perfectly  ridiculous — a  real  peer  of  England  to  tum- 
ble down  to  a  tinsel  titularity !  Indeed,  an  English 
coronet  will  not  be  quite  so  weighty  as  it  was ! 


LETTER  CCLXIX. 

Strawberry  Hill,  June  18,  1777. 

The  papers  told  you  that  Lord  Chatham  has  again 
made  his  appearance,  f     In  his  place,  I  think  I  should 

*  The  Prince  of  Orange  pacquet-boat,  captured  by  an  American  pri- 
vateer, on  her  way  from  Harwich  to  Helvoets.  On  reaching  Dunkirk, 
she  was  immediately  released. — Ed. 

t  Earl  Cowpcr  had  obtained  a  titular  principality  from  the  Emperor, 
imagining  that  he  should  take  place  of  English  Dukes ;  but  finding  his 
mistake,  and  that  it  would  give  him  no  precedence  at  all  here,  he  dropped 
the  title  of  Prince.  ["  An  English  lady,  the  Countess  Cowper,  became," 
says  Wraxall,  "  at  this  time  distinguished  by  the  attachment  of  the 
Grand-Duke  of  Tuscany  ;  and  the  exertion  of  his  interest  with  his 
brother,  Joseph  II.,  procured  her  husband  to  be  created  a  Prince  of  the 
German  Empire  ;  an  honour  which,  I  believe,  had  not  been  conferred  on 
any  British  subject  since  the  great  Duke  of  Marlborough  was  raised  to 
the  dignity  of  Prince  of  Mildcnheim." — Hist.  Mem.  vol.  i.  p.  283.— Ed.] 

%  On  the  30th  of  May,  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  though  in  a  state  of  great 
weakness,  had  gone  down  to  the  House  of  Lords,  and  made  a  motion  for 
the  cessation  of  hostilities  with  America.    It  was  rejected,  after  a  long  de- 


TO   SIR    HORACE  MANN.  29 

not  have  done  so.  I  should  prefer  being  forgotten,  to 
putting  the  world  in  mind  of  me  without  effect.  He 
should  sleep  on  his  laurels,  and  leave  posterity  to 
make  the  comparison  between  him  and  his  successors  ; 
who  certainly  are  not  prolific  of  trophies.  Lord  Corn- 
wallis  has  gained  a  puny  advantage,  and  Governor 
Tryon  has  burnt  a  magazine,  which  is  thought  a  great 
blow  to  the  provincials ;  but  the  Howes  are  not  in 
fashion.  Lord  Percy  is  come  home  disgusted  by  the 
younger ;  and  the  elder  will  be  as  much  disgusted,  at 
least  his  family  declare  so  for  him,  at  missing  the  Trea- 
surership  of  the  Navy.  The  Duke  of  Marlborough's*'5, 
avarice  has  been  a  theme  of  much  abuse  of  late.  I  do 
not  think  this  age  has  a  right  to  cast  a  stone  at  the  pre- 
ceding. France  to  us  sends  most  fair  words  ;  to  Ame- 
rica, stores  and  officers.  Spain  has  seized  an  island 
from  the  Portuguese  Queen  ;f  just  as  the  powers  of  Eu- 
rope treated  the  Empress-Queen  on  her  father's  death. 
I  will  not  pity  her  Portuguese  Majesty,  lest  some  time 

bate  by  ninety-nine  against  twenty-eight.  His  illustrious  son,  the  future 
minister  of  the  country,  was  present,  and  thus  wrote,  on  the  following  clay, 
to  his  mother  : — "  I  cannot  help  expressing  to  you  how  happy,  beyond  de- 
scription, I  feel,  in  reflecting  that  my  father  was  able  to  exert,  in  their  full 
vigour,  the  sentiments  and  eloquence  which  have  always  distinguished  him. 
His  first  speech  took  up  half  an  hour,  and  was  full  of  all  his  usual  force 
and  vivacity.  He  spoke  a  second  time,  in  answer  to  Lord  Weymouth,  to 
explain  the  object  of  his  motion,  and  his  intention  to  follow  it  by  one  for 
the  repeal  of  all  the  acts  of  parliament  which  form  the  system  of  chas- 
tisement. This  he  did  in  a  flow  of  eloquence,  and  with  a  beauty  of  ex- 
pression, animated  and  striking  beyond  conception." — Ed. 

*  The  great  General  of  Queen  Anne. 

t  The  Spanish  fleet,  under  the  conduct  of  the  Marquis  of  Casa  Tilly, 
had,  in  February,  taken  possession,  almost  without  opposition,  of  the  isle 
of  St.  Catherine's,  on  the  coast  of  Brazil. — Ed. 


30  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

or  other  she  should  accede  to  a  partition  of  Poland.  I 
will  never  more  judge  of  princes  at  their  coronations, 
but  at  their  burials. 

One  effect  the  American  war  has  not  had,  that  it 
ought  to  have  had ;  it  has  not  brought  us  to  our 
senses.  Silly  dissipation  rather  increases,  and  without 
an  object.  The  present  folly  is  late  hours.  Everybody 
tries  to  be  particular  by  being  too  late  ;  and,  as  every- 
body tries  it,  nobody  is  so.  It  is  the  fashion  now  to 
go  to  Ranelagh  two  hours  after  it  is  over.  You  may  not 
believe  this,  but  it  is  literal.  The  music  ends  at  ten  ; 
the  company  go  at  twelve.  Lord  Derby's  cook  lately 
gave  him  warning.  The  man  owned  he  liked  his  place, 
but  said  he  should  be  killed  by  dressing  suppers  at 
three  in  the  morning.  The  Earl  asked  him  coolly  at 
how  much  he  valued  his  life  1  That  is,  he  would  have 
paid  him  for  killing  him.  You  see  we  have  brought 
the  spirit  of  calculation  to  perfection !  I  do  not  regret 
being  old,  for  I  see  nothing  I  envy.  To  live  in  a  crowd, 
to  arrive  everywhere  too  late,  and  to  sell  annuities  for 
forty  times  more  than  I  can  ever  pay,  are  not  such 
supreme  joys  as  to  make  me  wish  myself  young  again  : 
indeed,  one  might  execute  all  these  joys  at  four-score. 
I  am  glad  the  Emperor  did  not  visit  us.  I  hope  he  is 
gone  home,  thinking  France  the  most  trifling  nation  in 
Europe. 

I  am  extremely  glad  that  Lady  Lucy*  is  so  much 
mended,  and  I  trust  she  will  live  to  reward  your  ne- 

*  Sir  Horace  Mann,  the  younger,  had  married,  in  April  1765,  Lady 
Lucy,  daughter  of  Baptist  Noel,  fourth  Earl  of  Gainsborough. — En. 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  31 

phew's  great  merit  towards  her.  I  do  believe,  with 
your  physicians,  that  warm  weather  will  re-establish 
you.  Patience  I  need  not  preach  to  you — it  is  part 
of  you  ;  but  I  will  tell  you  what  would  expedite  your 
recovery  miraculously — the  sea-air.  Go  to  Leghorn, 
and  drive  on  the  shore ;  go  out  in  a  boat  for  a  few 
hours  :  you  will  walk  well  in  half-a-dozen.  I  have 
experienced  this  in  as  short  a  time  as  I  prescribe. 
You  will  be  angry,  perhaps, — I  mean,  as  much  as  you 
can  be, — but  I  am  not  sorry  you  have  a  little  gout ; 
it  will  be  a  great  preservative. 


LETTER  CCLXX. 

Strawberry  Hill,  July  17,  1777. 

You  are  very  kind,  my  dear  sir,  in  your  inquiries 
about  the  Duke  of  Gloucester.  You  will  have  heard, 
long  before  you  receive  this,  how  very  ill  his  Royal 
Highness  has  been.  I  wish  I  could  say  I  was  yet  quite 
easy  about  him.  We  are  very  impatient  for  to-mor- 
row's letters.  It  is  unfortunate  that  he  did  not  pass 
the  summer  again  at  Castel  Gondolfo.  The  heats  and 
nauseous  air  of  Venice  immediately  affected  him  deep- 
ly, and  I  fear  his  Royal  Ilighness's  mind  was  not  in  a 
situation  to  resist  outward  impressions.  He  fell  away 
exceedingly,  had  a  flux  at  Padua,  and  at  Yerona  was 
so  reduced,  that  he  was  persuaded  to  return  to  England. 
Before  he  could  set  out,  he  grew  daily  so  much 
worse,  that  he  was  taken  out  of  bed  and  put  into  a 
post-chaise,  and  made  journeys  for  two  days  of  twenty- 


32  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

six  and  thirty  miles  ;  at  the  end  of  which  he  slept  eight 
hours,  and  mended  a  little.  The  Duchess,  in  the 
mean  time,  half  distracted,  sent  a  courier  for  Dr.  Jebb 
and  Adair ;  who,  we  hope,  arrived  last  Saturday ;  for  Dr. 
Jebb  promised  to  post  without  pulling  off  his  clothes. 
The  Duke  got  to  Trent,  and  found  himself  refreshed 
from  the  cool  air  of  the  mountains ;  but  his  dysentery 
returned  with  violent  pains.  He  keeps  his  bed ;  but 
when  the  last  letters  came  away,  which  was  on  the 
4th  of  this  month,  his  surgeon-page  hoped  the  ex- 
tremity of  the  danger  was  over.  It  is,  indeed,  impossi- 
ble ever  to  be  secure  about  so  precarious  a  constitution ; 
and,  unless  his  Royal  Highness's  mind  is  set  at  peace 
about  his  family,  I  fear  he  has  not  strength  to  resist 
the  anxiety  that  preys  upon  a  state  of  health  too  ob- 
noxious to  every  kind  of  attack.  To  add  to  the 
Duchess's  misery,  her  little  boy  was  in  a  bad  wsij  at 
the  same  moment. 

You  inquire  about  America,  and  what  Lord  Percy  * 
says.  I  cannot  give  you  information  from  any  autho- 
rity. I  live  here,  and  see  nobody  of  either  side  that 
knows  anything.     The  Duchess's  three  daughters  f  are, 

*  Eldest  son  of  Hugh,  first  Duke  of  Northumberland.  His  lordship 
had  distinguished  himself  greatly  in  the  important  action  of  Lexington,  and 
the  reduction  of  Fort  Washington,  &c.  On  the  death  of  his  father,  in 
1786,  he  succeeded  to  the  family  honours. — Ed. 

t  The  Ladies  Laura,  Maria,  and  Horatia  Waldegrave,  daughters  of  the 
Duchess  of  Gloucester  by  her  first  husband,  James  Earl  of  Waldegrave. 
[Lady  Elizabeth-Laura  married  in  1782  to  Lord  Chewton,  afterwards 
fourth  Earl  Waldegrave  ;  Lady  Charlotte-Maria  married  in  1784  to  the 
Earl  of  Euston  ;  and  Lady  Anna-Horatia  married  in  1786  to  Lord  Hugh 
Seymour. — Ed.] 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  33 

by  his  Royal  Highnesses  goodness,  lodged  in  Hampton 
Court  Park  ;  which  is  very  near  me,  and  take  up  most 
of  my  time.  They  are  charming  girls  :  I  don't  mean 
only  their  persons,  but  good,  sweet-tempered,  admira- 
bly brought  up,  and  amiable  in  every  respect.  1  try 
to  amuse  and  improve  them ;  though  I  have  little  to  do 
on  the  latter  head,  and  they  are  so  reasonable  and 
easily  contented,  even  with  the  company  of  an  old 
uncle,  that  the  other  is  not  difficult.  But  what  is  all 
this  to  America,  except  that  it  proves  how  little 
it  occupies  me  %  The  last  Gazette  informed  us  that 
General  Howe  was  but  then  going  to  open  the  cam- 
paign, having  been  in  want  of  campaign  equipage.  I 
do  not  know  that  Lord  Percy  says  anything ;  for  I  have 
heard  he  is  very  circumspect.  He  certainly  does  not 
talk  of  pacification.  He  is  said  to  say,  that  this  cam- 
paign will  finish  the  war.  I  doubt  his  having  said  so, 
as  the  Ministers  are  not  said  to  be  of  that  opinion.  In 
the  mean  time,  American  privateers  infest  our  coasts  ; 
they  keep  Scotland  in  alarms,  and  even  the  harbour 
of  Dublin  has  been  newly  strengthened  with  cannon. 
But  there  is  a  much  bigger  cloud  ready  to  burst.  The 
open  protection  and  countenance  given  by  France  to  the 
Americans  is  come  to  a  crying  height.  We  complain  : 
I  know  not  what  civil  words  they  give,  but  they  certainly 
give  us  no  satisfaction.  The  general  opinion  is,  that  we 
are  at  the  eve  of  a  war  with  them.  Should  the  Ameri- 
cans receive  any  blow,  my  own  sentiments  are,  that 
France  would  openly  espouse  their  quarrel,  not  being 
at  all  disposed  to  let  them  be  crushed.     You  know 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  1> 


34  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

that  at  the  beginning  of  this  contest  I  told  you  I 
thought  it  would  be  an  affair  of  long  duration.  A 
French  war  would  abridge  it — but  how  1  I  will  pro- 
phesy nothing  on  that  head.  I  don't  like  to  look  into 
that  book. 

I  have  no  events  to  send  you.  London,  I  suppose, 
is  very  empty  at  this  season  ;  but  I  have  little  deal- 
ings with  it.  The  affairs  of  my  family  find  me  full 
employment,  and  it  is  the  most  suitable  one  at  my 
time  of  life.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCLXXI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  August  11,  1777. 

I  write  in  a  most  anxious  moment,  and  tremble 
lest  you  should  know  worse  than  we  have  heard  yet. 
I  had  a  letter  from  the  Duchess  on  Tuesday,  that  raised 
our  hopes.  Yesterday  brought  one  from  Dr.  Jebb 
to  my  brother,  that  dashed  them  down  again.  Sir 
Edward,  who  is  truly  very  sagacious  in  physical  cases, 
does  not  despond ;  and  I,  always  disposed  to  expect 
what  I  wish,  and  who  do  not  believe  that  it  is  so  easy  to 
die  as  is  imagined,  do  not  quite  despair — yet  that  word 
quite  would  scarce  turn  a  scale  against  a  feather.  I 
dare  not  look  farther,  nor  figure  the  distress  of  the 
Duchess,  if  the  dreadful  misfortune  should  happen. 
Lord  Cholmondeley*  is  gone  to  Trent,  and  will  be  of 

*  George-James,  fourth  Earl  of  Cholmondeley,  great-nephew  of  Horace 
Walpole  ;  and  upon  whose  death  he  succeeded  to  the  ancient  Walpole 
estates  at  Houghton,  &c.     In  1782,  he  was  appointed  Envoy  Extraordi- 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  35 

great  use  and  comfort  —  but  I  will  hope  yet.  Do 
not  wonder,  nor  take  it  ill,  that  nobody  thought  of 
writing  to  you  :  think  but  of  what  the  distress  and 
confusion  must  be  ;  and  how  little  they  could  attend 
to  anything  but  writing  to  England.  I,  here,  only 
contemplating  in  melancholy  tranquillity  the  misfor- 
tune hanging  over  my  poor  niece,  should  not  write  to 
many  but  you  at  such  a  moment.  The  Duke's  family 
must  be  exhausted  with  fatigue  and  anxiety,  and  I 
fear  barely  able  to  go  through  their  duty.  You  should 
pity  them,  not  suspect  them  of  neglect. 

I  can  tell  you  nothing  else  that  you  will  like  much 
better.  The  conquest  of  America  is  put  off  to  the 
millennium.'"  It  is  hoped,  and  thence  supposed,  that 
General  Howe  is  gone  to  take  some  place,  or  beat  some 
army,  that  is  more  practicable  than  dislodging  Wash- 
ington. Burgoyne  has  sent  over  a  manifesto,  that,  if 
he  was  to  overrun  ten  provinces,  would  appear  too 
pompous  ;f  and  yet,  let  him  achieve  ever  so  little,  it 

nary  and  Plenipotentiary  to  the  Court  of  Berlin  ;  and,  in  1815,  was  ad- 
vanced to  the  Earldom  of  Rocksavage  and  Marquisate  of  Cholmondeley. 
He  died  in  April  1827.— Ed. 

*  Gibbon,  at  that  time  in  Paris,  writing,  on  the  13th  of  August,  to 
Mr.  Holroyd,  says,  "  What  a  wretched  piece  of  work  do  we  seem  to  be 
making  of  it  in  America  !  The  greatest  force  which  any  European  power 
ever  ventured  to  transport  into  that  country,  is  not  strong  enough  even  to 
attack  the  enemy  ;  the  naval  strength  of  Great  Britain  is  not  sufficient  to 
prevent  the  Americans  (they  have  almost  lost  the  appellation  of  rebels) 
from  receiving  every  assistance  that  they  wanted  ;  and,  in  the  mean  time, 
you  are  obliged  to  call  out  the  militia  to  defend  your  own  coasts  against 
their  privateers.  Upon  the  whole,  I  find  it  much  easier  to  defend  the 
justice  than  the  policy  of  our  measures  ;  but  there  are  certain  cases, 
where  whatever  is  repugnant  to  sound  policy  ceases  to  be  just. — Ed. 

t  General  Burgoyne  had,  in  June,  dispersed  a  manifesto  calculated  to 

d  2 


36  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

will  be  sure  of  not  being  depreciated  ;  so  great  is  the 
want  of  something  to  keep  up  the  spirits  of  the  peo- 
ple, who  stare  a  little  at  being  bullied  on  their  own 
coasts,  after  being  told  that  five  thousand  men  would 
overrun  all  America.  France  sits  by  and  laughs,  re- 
ceives our  remonstrances,  sends  us  an  embassadress, 
and  winks  on  Dr.  Franklin  that  it  is  all  the  comfort 
she  will  give  us. — I  believe  you  will  not  wish  me  to 
expatiate  on  that  chapter. 

Lady  Mary  Churchill's"*  eldest  daughter  is  married 
to  Lord  Cadogan.f  She  is  very  pretty,  amiable,  and 
eight-and-twenty  ;  he,  rich  and  fifty.  It  is  a  great 
match  for  her,  and  in  my  opinion  preferable  to  one 
with  most  of  our  youths,  who  dissipate  enormous  for- 
tunes in  a  couple  of  years.  I  have  not  time  to  say 
more  now,  nor  any  event  to  tell  you. 


LETTER  CCLXXII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Sept.  1,  1777. 

The  Duke  is  still  struggling  at  Trent.     Ten  days 
ago  the  letters  were  suddenly  and  wonderfully  mended, 

spread  terror  among  the  contumacious,  and  particularly  to  revive  in  their 
minds  every  latent  impression  of  fear,  derived  from  knowledge  or  infor- 
mation of  the  cruel  operations  of  the  Indian  savages.  The  pompous 
turgidity  of  style  in  which  it  was  couched,  excited  the  ridicule  of  the 
Americans,  and  procured  for  the  General  the  sobriquet  of  Chrononho- 
tonthologos. — Ed. 

*  Mr.  Walpole's  sister. 

t  Charles  Sloane  Cadogan,  third  Lord  Cadogan.     In  1800,  his  lordship 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  37 

and  we  flattered  ourselves  the  danger  was  quite  over. 
The  next  post  brought  a  little  relapse,  and  great  com- 
plaint of  the  heats.  Two  days  ago  we  were  a  little 
comforted  again.  He  had  had  two  exceedingly  good 
nights ;  and  having  gained  so  much  time,  and  the  phy- 
sicians no  longer  speaking  despondingly,  though  they 
will  not  from  prudence  give  too  great  hopes,  we  trust 
we  shall  again  see  his  Royal  Highness  in  England. 
The  Duchess's  distress  has  equalled  anything  we  could 
figure.  For  three  weeks  she  did  not  write  a  syllable, 
nor  even  saw  Mrs.  Hey  wood.  *  She  tells  Lady  Laura, 
her  daughter,  that  she  did  nothing  but  pray  and  weep. 
She  has  still  much  to  go  through.  It  is  well  her 
constitution  and  courage  are  so  firm.  It  will  be  the 
end  of  October  at  soonest  before  they  can  be  at  home. 
When  the  Duke  is  able  to  travel,  I  shall  expect  great 
things  from  motion  and  change  of  air.  The  King  has 
sent  him  a  kind  message  :  it  will  do  more  than  twenty 
physicians,  and  I  believe  produced  the  amendment, 
for  his  heart  was  broken. 

General  Burgoyne  has  taken  Ticonderoga,  and  given 
a  new  complexion  to  the  aspect  of  affairs,  which  was 
very  wan  indeed.  General  Howe  is  gone  with  a  great 
force  some  whither,  and  the  moment  is  very  critical. 
I  don't  pretend  to  form  any  judgment.  Eleven  months 
ago  I  thought  America  subdued  ;  and,  a  fortnight  ago, 
it  was  as  little  likely  to  be  subdued  as  ever.     We,  the 

was  advanced  to  the  dignities  of  Viscount  Chelsea  and  Earl  Cadogan. 
Miss  Churchill  was  his  second  wife. — Ed. 

*  One  of  the  Women  of  the  Bedchamber  who  attended  the  Duchess 
of  Gloucester  abroad. 


38  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

people,  know  little  of  the  truth.*"  One  would  think 
the  more  informed  were  not  more  settled  in  their  opi- 
nions :  for  General  Howe's  retreat,  after  advancing  to- 
wards "Washington,  produced  despair ;  the  taking  of 
one  post  has  given  confidence.  So  much  fluctuation 
begets  a  thousand  reports.  It  is  now  said  at  once, 
that  we  are  to  hire  fifteen  thousand  Russians  for  next 
campaign,  and  that  we  are  treating  for  peace  by  the 
mediation  of  France.  If  you  ask  me  what  I  believe — 
nothing  but  what  is  past — and  perhaps  have  not  heard 
a  quarter  of  that.  In  one  thing  alone  all  that  come 
from  America  agree,  that  the  alienation  from  this 
country  is  incredible  and  universal;!  so  that,  instead 
of  obtaining  a  revenue  thence,  the  pretence  of  the  war, 
the  conquest  would  only  entail  boundless  expense  to 
preserve  it.  The  New  World  will  at  last  be  revenged 
on  the  Old. 

*  The  capture  of  Ticonderoga  by  General  Burgoyne,  in  July,  together 
with  a  hundred  and  twenty-eight  pieces  of  cannon,  occasioned  great  ex- 
ultation with  all  who  looked  forward  to  the  unconditional  submission  of 
the  colonies,  and  an  opinion  generally  prevailed  that  the  war  in  effect  was 
over. — Ed. 

f  The  feelings,  at  this  time,  of  the  people  of  America  towards  this 
country,  are  thus  set  forth  by  Dr.  Franklin,  in  a  letter  of  the  14th  of  Octo- 
ber, to  David  Hartley,  the  member  for  Kingston -upon-Hull : — "As  to  our 
submitting  to  the  government  of  Great  Britain,  it  is  in  vain  to  think  of  it. 
It  is  now  impossible  to  persuade  our  people,  as  I  long  endeavoured,  that 
the  war  was  merely  ministerial,  and  that  the  nation  bore  still  a  good-will 
to  us.  The  infinite  number  of  addresses  printed  in  your  gazettes,  all  en- 
couraging our  destruction  by  every  means  ;  the  great  majority  in  Parlia- 
ment constantly  manifesting  the  same  sentiments  ;  together  with  the  re- 
commendation of  the  same  measures  by  even  your  celebrated  moralists 
and  divines  in  their  writings  and  sermons — all  join  in  convincing  us,  that 
you  are  unfit  and  unworthy  to  govern  us,  as  not  being  able  to  govern  your 
own  passions." 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  39 

My  poor  nephew  remains  in  the  same  undecided 
state  ;  sometimes  furious,  sometimes  sullen.  I  prophesy 
no  more  about  him  than  about  America ;  but,  one  way 
or  other,  lie  will  be  a  source  of  vexation  to  me.  But 
one  speaks,  or  ought  to  speak,  with  more  indifference 
about  future  events,  when  the  clock  is  going  to  strike 
sixty.  Visions,  and  hopes,  and  prospects,  are  pretty 
playthings  for  boys.  It  is  folly  to  vex  one's  self  for 
what  cannot  last  very  long.  Indeed,  what  can,  even 
when  one  is  young  %  Cory  don  firmly  believes  he  shall 
be  wretched  for  ever,  if  he  does  not  marry  Phillis. 
That  misery  can  but  last  till  she  has  lost  her  bloom. 
His  eternal  woe  would  vanish,  if  her  nose  grew  red. 
How  often  do  our  griefs  become  our  comforts !  I 
know  what  I  wish  to-day ;  not  at  all  what  I  shall 
wish  to-morrow.  Sixty  says,  You  did  not  wish  for 
me,  yet  you  would  like  to  keep  me.  Sixty  is  in 
the  right ;  and  I  have  not  a  word  more  to  say. 


LETTER  CCLXXIII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Sept.  18,  1777. 

I  am  a  little  calm  at  present,  and  can  tell  what  I 
say;  which  would  not  have  been  the  case  last  week. 
The  changes  in  the  Duke  of  Gloucester's  condition 
have  been  so  frequent  and  so  unexpected,  that  I 
have  been  buffeted  with  every  opposite  agitation. 
On  Saturday  was  sevennight  we  heard  that  his  Royal 
Highness  was  in  a  very  fair  way.     On  the  next  Mon- 


40  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

day  we  were  advertized  that  he  was  riot  likely  to 
last  four  hours.  The  next  day  the  post  was  said 
to  be  arrived,  and  to  have  brought  no  letters  from 
Trent.  Fatal  as  this  seemed,  the  arrival  of  no  mes- 
senger left  a  gleam  of  hope ;  and  next  evening  a 
favourable  letter  proved  the  mistake  of  the  post 
having  arrived  sooner.  Two  more  posts  have  brought 
more  rapid  accounts  of  amendment  than  one  can 
scarce  credit,  if  two  circumstances  did  not  solve 
the  vast  improbability.  The  humour  had  fallen  on 
the  lower  parts,  but  with  such  violence  as  to  bring 
on  all  the  ordinary  prognostics  of  immediate  death  ; 
and  the  Duke  swelled  from  his  groin  to  his  foot. 
This  vent  cleared  the  bowels,  and,  as  the  stamina 
are  still  more  vigorous  than  the  royal  humour,  they 
seem  to  have  conquered.  For  the  swiftness  of  the  re- 
covery, it  is  owing  to  a  very  different  cause  ;  to  the 
removal  of  a  malady  which  had  co-operated  with  the 
disorder  in  the  blood  to  bring  on  so  violent  and  last- 
ing an  attack.  In  short,  the  King  has  sent  his  Royal 
Highness  a  most  kind  and  brotherly  letter,  and  the 
physicians  are  not  to  blame  for  not  having  prescribed 
a  medicine  that  was  not  in  their  dispensary. 

You  may  judge  to  what  a  skeleton  such  a  conflict  of 
body  and  mind,  in  bed  for  thirteen  weeks,  and  in  so 
sultry  a  climate,  must  have  reduced  the  Duke.  They 
could  hear  the  bones,  they  say,  rattle  in  his  skin. 
They  speak  of  the  Duchess's  distraction,  and  the 
change  in  her  person  and  beauty,  with  as  much 
energy.      Well  !  may   Ave  but  see  them  here  again  ! 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  41 

T  will  add  no  more  ;  I  have  curbed  myself  to  say- 
so  little.  But  what  a  week,  and  what  transitions! 
It  would  make  a  tragedy  to  paint,  as  I  did  to  my- 
self, the  Duchess  travelling  with  the  body,  which 
the  Duke  had  exacted  of  her,  and  with  two  infants, 
one  just  old  enough  to  lisp  daggers,  and  arriving  in 
a  succession  of  inns  to  be  stared  at,  when  she  would 
wish  herself  in  her  grave;  and  returning  to  her  own 
country  to  encounter  mortification,  triumph  in  her 
fall,  and  total  uncertainty  of  her  own  fate,  and  of 
that  of  her  children  !  It  had  been  Agrippina  again 
at  Brundusium.  No  King  ever  had  an  opportunity 
of  dispelling  more  woe,  and  his  Majesty  must  taste 
the  satisfaction  he  has  given.  It  is  the  reverse  of 
the  tinsel,  glory. 

I  know  nothing  else,  and  you  cannot  wonder  that  I 
have  had  room  for  nothing  else.  For  above  three 
weeks  we  have  been  totally  in  the  dark  about  Ame- 
rica. To  tell  you  anything  else  would  be  repeating 
conjectures,  which,  though  they  fill  up  every  cranny 
of  the  interstices  of  events,  are  most  unsubstantial 
mortar,  and  rarely  harden  into  part  of  the  build- 
ing. 

You  are  too  reasonable  about  your  own  lameness  to 
want  any  exhortation  to  patience.  I  am  very  weak  on 
my  feet  too;  but  always  say,  when  asked,  I  am  well 
enough.  The  absence  of  pain  is  the  pleasure  of  age. 
I  wish  you  a  great-nephew,  because  one  ought  to  culti- 
vate visions  :  it  is  true,  disappointment  is  not  quite  so 
airy,  nor  vanishes  like  the  fumes  which  conjured  it  up. 


42  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

Pray  don't  imagine  I  am  a  philosopher  but  when  I  am 
pretty  much  at  ease.  Last  week  would  give  me  the 
lie  soundly,  if  I  affected  airs  of  stoicism.  I  pretend 
to  nothing  but  to  having  chalked  out  for  myself  and 
pursued  a  plan  of  tranquillity ;  not  because  I  had  no 
passions,  but  because  I  knew  the  big  ones,  ambition 
and  the  chase  of  fortune,  would  produce  more  tempest 
in  my  passions  than  I  could  bear.  The  vexations  my 
family  have  occasioned  me  were  none  of  my  seeking. 
I  am  neither  so  insensible  as  not  to  feel  them,  or  not 
to  try  to  remedy  them.  A  little  common  sense  is  all 
the  philosophy  I  possess ;  and,  when  the  business  of 
others  does  not  torment  me,  nobody  is  more  contented 
or  can  find  more  amusement  than  I.  This  place,  my 
books  and  playthings,  are  empire  enough  for  me  ;  but, 
for  amusing  myself,  I  never  was  so  totally  debarred  of 
that  talent  as  this  summer.  I  sigh  to  be  my  own 
master  again  ;   that  is,  idle.     Adieu  ! 

P.S.  19th. — It  is  said  a  victualling-ship  has  brought 
an  account  of  the  Howes  having  attempted  to  cross 
the  Delaware,  in  order  to  attack  Philadelphia,  and  of 
Washington  having  marched  and  prevented  them  ;  and 
that  on  this  disappointment  they  were  sailed  to  Boston. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  provincials  are  said  to  have 
abandoned  Fort  Edward.  Few  days  will  ascertain  or 
contradict  these  events,  and  the  papers  will  let  you 
know. 

A  strange  accident  has  happened.  Lord  Harcourt 
was  missing  the  other  day  at  dinner-time  at  his  own  seat, 
and  at  last  was  found  suffocated  in  a  well  with  his  head 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  43 

downwards,  and  his  dog  upon  him.*  It  is  concluded 
that  the  dog  had  fallen  in,  and  that  the  Earl,  in  trying 
to  extricate  him,  had  lost  his  poize  and  tumbled  in 
too.  It  is  an  odd  exit  for  the  Governor  of  a  King, 
Ambassador,  and  Viceroy.  Another  Ambassador  has 
had  a  sad  fall  too  :  Count  Virry  f  is  arrested  at  Susa, 
and  ordered  to  present  himself  twice  a  day  to  the  Go- 
vernor.    Madame  J  has  leave  to  go  where  she  pleases. 

*  This  very  singular  accident  took  place  at  Nuneham  Park  on  the 
16th  of  September,  and  was  supposed  to  he  occasioned  by  his  lordship 
over-reaching,  in  order  to  save  the  life  of  a  favourite  dog,  which  was 
found  in  the  well,  standing  on  his  lordship's  feet.  Simon,  first  Earl 
Harcourt,  was  grandson  of  Lord  Chancellor  Harcourt,  and  son  of  the 
Hon.  Simon  Harcourt,  who,  in  1705,  married  Elizabeth,  grand-daughter 
of  John  Evelyn.  He  died  in  1720,  and  was  buried  at  Stanton-Harcourt ; 
where  a  monument  is  erected  to  his  memory,  with  the  beautiful  inscrip- 
tion by  Pope,  beginning — 

"  To  this  sad  shrine,  whoe'er  thou  art !  draw  near  ! 
Here  lies  the  friend  most  lov'd,  the  son  most  dear  ; 
Who  ne'er  knew  joy,  but  friendship  might  divide, 
.    Or  gave  his  father  grief,  but  when  he  dy'd." 

— Lord  Harcourt  had  been  Governor  of  George  III.  when  Prince  of 
Wales.  In  1761  he  was  nominated  Ambassador  Extraordinary  to 
Mecklenburgh-Strelitz,  to  demand  the  Princess  Charlotte  in  marriage  ; 
in  September,  was  declared  Master  of  the  Horse  to  her  Majesty  ;  in  1768, 
Ambassador  to  the  Court  of  Erance  ;  and,  in  1769,  Lord  Lieutenant  of 
Ireland;  which  high  office  he  held  till  the  January  of  this  year. — Ed. 

t  Count  Virry  was  son  of  one  of  the  same  title,  who  had  been  the 
Sardinian  Minister  in  England,  and  was  himself  Ambassador  in  France. 
While  in  England,  in  1760,  he  married  Miss  Speed,  niece  of  Lady  Cob- 
ham.  [The  poet  Gray,  in  speaking  of  this  marriage  at  the  time,  says, 
"  The  Count  is  about  twenty-eight  years  old  (ten  years  younger  than 
herself),  but  looks  nearer  forty.  This  is  not  the  effect  of  debauchery  ;  for 
he  is  a  very  sober  man,  good-natured  and  honest,  but  no  conjuror. — Ed.] 

%  The  Countess  Virry,  who  was  supposed  to  be  the  cause  of  her 
husband's  disgrace,  as  very  intriguing,  and  to  have  invited  him  to  keep 
up  a  secret  correspondence  at  Turin  for  making  himself  Prime  Minister, 
which  was  discovered.     Lord  Shelburne,  who  was  her  friend,   prevailed 


44  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

Whither  can  she  go  1  or  how  not  stay  with  her  hus- 
band ?  The  Prince  Masserano*  is  set  out,  so  ill,  that 
I  question  if  he  will  reach  Calais. 


LETTER  CCLXXIV. 

Arlington  Street,  Oct.  26,  1777. 

It  is  past  my  usual  period  of  writing  to  you ;  which 
would  not  have  happened  but  from  an  uncommon, 
and  indeed,  considering  the  moment,  an  extraordinary 
dearth  of  matter.  I  could  have  done  nothing  but  de- 
scribe suspense,  and  every  newspaper  told  you  that. 
Still  we  know  nothing  certain  of  the  state  of  affairs  in 
America ;  the  very  existence  where,  of  the  Howes,  is 
a  mystery.  The  General  is  said  to  have  beaten  Wash- 
ington, Clinton  to  have  repulsed  three  attacks,  and 
Burgoyne  to  be  beaten.  The  second  alone  is  cre- 
dited. Impatience  is  very  high,  and  uneasiness  in- 
creases with  every  day.  There  is  no  sanguine  face 
anywhere,  but  many  alarmed  ones.  The  pains  taken, 
by  circulating  false  reports,  to  keep  up  some  con- 
fidence, only  increase  the  dissatisfaction  by  disap- 
pointing.    Some  advantage  gained  may  put  off  cla- 

on  the  King  to  obtain  their  pardon  of  the  King  of  Sardinia  in  1783  ; 
about  which  time  she  died  suddenly.  She  was  one  of  the  heroines  of 
Mr.  Gray's  "  Long  Story,"  and  had  a  great  deal  of  wit. 

*  The  Spanish  Ambassador  had  obtained  leave  to  return  home,  on 
account  of  tlie  ill  state  of  his  health.  He  died  on  his  way  thither,  on  the 
1st  of  December.  He  was  succeeded  at  the  British  Court  by  the 
Marquis  de  Almodovar. — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  45 

mour  for  some  months  :  but  I  think,  the  longer  it 
is  suspended,  the  more  terrible  it  will  be  ;  and  how 
the  war  should  end  but  in  ruin,  I  am  not  wise  enough 
to  conjecture.  France  suspends  the  blow,  to  make  it 
more  inevitable.  She  has  suffered  us  to  undo  our- 
selves :  will  she  allow  us  time  to  recover  %  We  have 
begged  her  indulgence  in  the  first :  will  she  grant  the 
second  prayer  % 

The  Duke  of  Gloucester  is  arrived.  That  is  mi- 
raculous. He  is  almost  well,  and  that  is  less  sur- 
prising. Mr.  James  finds  his  face  plumper  than  at 
Rome  :  he  is  certainly  not  leaner,  nor  yellow,  though 
very  pale  ;  and  his  voice  shows  that  his  lungs  are  good. 
In  short,  the  remainder  of  his  illness  is  in  his  right 
leg;  which  is  still  swelled,  and  very  lame  when  he 
stands  too  much,  as  he  is  too  apt  to  do.  The  Duchess 
has  more  symptoms  of  what  she  has  suffered  than 
his  Royal  Highness;  and  as  she  is  much  fallen  away, 
and  even  shrunk,  her  face  looks  much  older,  which 
must  necessarily  happen  till  her  skin  fills  up  again. 
The  Princess  Sophia  is  a  fine  child,  though  less  pretty 
than  she  was.  The  Prince  a  pretty  boy.  If  there 
is  anything  more  to  tell  you,  it  is  yet  to  come. 

You  have  heard  of  the  inundation  at  Petersburgh.* 

*  A  violent  hurricane,  which  began -on  the  morning  of  September  the 
14th,  raised  the  waters,  in  the  space  of  four  hours,  to  the  height  of  four- 
teen feet  above  the  ordinary  level  of  the  Neva.  The  city  and  adjoining 
flat  country  were  rapidly  overflowed  ;  by  which  many  hundreds  of  the 
inhabitants  were  drowned,  and  thousands  ruined.  The  finest  trees  in  the 
palace  gardens  were  torn  up  by  the  roots  ;  the  bridges  destroyed  ;  ships 
thrown  into  gardens,  fields,  and  woods  ;  and  country-houses  swept  away 
or  destroyed. — Ed. 


46  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

That  ill  wind  produced  luck  to   somebody.     As  the 
Empress  had  not  distressed  objects  enough  amongst  her 
own  people  to  gratify  her  humanity,  she  turned  the 
torrent  of  her  bounty  towards  that  unhappy  relict  the 
Duchess  of  Kingston,  and  ordered  her  Admiralty  to 
take  particular  care  of  the  marvellous  yacht  that  bore 
Messalina  and  her  fortune.'""     Pray  mind  that  I  bestow 
the  latter  Empress's  name  on  the  Duchess,  only  because 
she  married  a  second  husband  in  the  lifetime  of  the  first. 
Amongst  other  benevolences,  the  Czarina  lent  her  grace 
a  courier  to  despatch  to  England — I  suppose  to  acquaint 
Lord  Bristol  that  he  is  not  a  widower.     That  courier 
brought  a  letter  from  a  friend  to  Dr.  Hunter,  with  the 
following  anecdote.     Her  Imperial  Majesty  proposed  to 
her  brother  of  China  to  lay  waste  a  large  district  that 
separates  their  two  empires,   lest  it  should,  as  it  has 
been  on  the  point  of  doing,  produce  war  between  them ; 
the  two  empires  being  at  the  two  extremities  of  the 
world,  not  being  distance  enough  to  keep  the  peace. 
The  ill-bred  Tartar  sent  no  answer  to  so  humane  a  pro- 

*  Elizabeth  Chudleigh,  Countess  of  Bristol,  married,  during  the  Earl's 
life-time,  to  the  Duke  of  Kingston,  had,  in  the  preceding  year,  been  tried 
in  Westminster  Hall  for  bigamy,  and  found  guilty.  After  the  trial  she 
left  England,  and  went  to  reside  at  St.  Petersburgh.  The  following  is 
an  extract  from  a  letter  written  by  her  Chaplain,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Forster, 
to  a  friend  in  England  : — "  At  our  arrival,  the  Vice-Admiral  came  on 
board  to  compliment  the  Duchess,  and  to  offer  to  place  her  yacht  in  the 
basin  where  the  men-of-war  lie.  As  soon  as  the  Empress  was  informed 
of  the  arrival  of  the  Duchess,  she  sent  her  an  invitation.  She  was  pre- 
sented by  the  Count  de  Czernechoff.  Her  Majesty  paid  her  the  highest 
mark  of  distinction,  by  placing  her  on  her  light.  The  famous  General 
Romanzoff  was  present,  and  also  the  Grand-Duke.  Indeed,  so  many 
honours  were  never  paid  in  this  Court  to  any  person  whatsoever." — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  47 

ject.     On  the  contrary,  he  dispersed  a  letter  to  the 
Russian  people,  in  which  he  tells  them  that  a  woman 
-he  might  have  said  the  Minerva  of  the  French  litterati 
— had  proposed  to  him  to  extirpate  all  the  inhabitants 
of  a  certain  region  belonging  to  him,  but  that  he  knew 
better  what  to  do  with  his  own  country  :  however,  he 
could  but  wonder  that  the  people  of  all  the  Russias 
should  still  submit  to  be  governed  by  a  creature  that 
had  assassinated  her  husband. — Oh !  if  she  had  pulled  the 
Ottoman  by  the  nose  in  the  midst  of  Constantinople,  as 
she  intended  to  do,  this  savage  would  have  been  more 
civilized.     I  doubt  the  same  rude  Monarch  is  still  on 
the  throne,  who  would  not  suffer  Prince  Czernichew  to 
enter  his  territories,  when  sent  to  notify  her  Majesty's 
hereditary  succession  to  her  husband  ;  but  bade  him 
be  told,  he  would  not  receive  an  ambassador  from  a 
murderess.     Is  it  not  shocking  that  the  law  of  nations, 
and  the  law  of  politeness,  should  not  yet  have  abro- 
gated the  laws  of  justice  and  good-sense  in  a  nation 
reckoned  so  civilized  as  the  Chinese  %    What  an  age  do 
we  live  in,  if  there  is  still  a  country  where  the  Crown 
does  not  take  away  all  defects !     Good  night ! 


LETTER  CCLXXV. 


Arlington  Street,  Nov.  7,  1777. 

You  will  have  seen  in  the  papers,  before  you  can 
receive  this,  such  accounts  of  a  total  defeat  of  Washing- 
ton, that  you  might  wonder  at  my  silence  if  I  did  not 


48  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

say  a  word  :  that  word  must  be,  that  I  very  much 
doubt  the  fact ;  and,  if  it  was  known  at  New  York  so 
long  ago  as  the  supposed  Gazette  thence  says,  it  would 
be  wonderful,  indeed,  that  General  Howe  should  keep 
it  a  profound  secret  from  the  Government  here,  whom 
he  might  suppose  a  little  interested  to  hear  some  good 
news  or  other  after  a  long  dearth. 

The  first  breath  of  this  report  was  said  to  come  from 
France  yesterday  sevennight.  On  Sunday  morning 
early  it  was  asserted  as  a  fact  by  a  New  York  Gazette 
arrived  at  Liverpool.  On  Tuesday  I  came  to  town,  in- 
tending to  write  to  you;  but,  finding  no  confirmation 
come,  I  thought  it  prudent  not  to  assert  what  I  knew 
no  better.  From  Tuesday  to  Friday  night  is  a  long  in- 
terval on  such  an  occasion  ;  and,  though  some  still  say 
that  they  believe  Washington  beaten,  they  do  not  use, 
I  observe,  much  stronger  terms  than  received  a  check. 
One  has  heard  of  towns  burnt  to  the  ground,  that  have 
turned  out  to  be  a  chimney  on  fire.  In  the  mean  time 
I  tell  you  all  I  know,  and  I  am  not  apt  to  believe 
more  of  things  at  such  a  distance. 

Of  what  there  is  no  doubt  is,  the  check  Burgoyne  has 
received,  and  the  distress  of  his  army,  that  the  last 
accounts  left  in  danger  of  being  starved.  There  have 
been  accounts  of  his  recovering  the  blow,  but  I  cannot 
find  one  person  who  believes  that.  In  one  word,  it  is 
a  very  serious  moment ;  and,  without  greater  views,  the 
misery  of  so  many  who  have  relations  and  friends  both 
in  Howe's  and  Burgoyne's  armies  is  terrible.  It  is 
known  that  the  latter  had  twenty-six  officers  wounded ; 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  49 

and,  as  their  names  are  not  come,  ten  times  the  number 
may  be  suffering  the  worst  anxiety.  The  distance  of 
the  war  augments  its  horrors  almost  as  much  as  its  ex- 
pense, and  makes  it  grow  every  day  more  irksome. 

I  have  no  private  news  to  send  you  of  any  sort. 
The  town  is  still  empty.  I  come  now  and  then  to  see 
the  Duke  and  Duchess.  He  does  not  recover  of  his 
lameness,  and  in  general  I  find  people  think  he  looks 
worse  than  it  appears  to  me.  She  looks  infinitely 
better  than  at  her  arrival,  but  she  has  a  perfect  consti- 
tution. 

I  see  no  prospect  of  an  end  to  this  American  war, 
but  from  our  inability  to  carry  it  on  :  and  what  can 
that  produce  but  a  war  from  France — I  don't  say  with 
France  ;  for  where  can  we  attack  them  if  we  lose 
America  ;  and  where  are  we  to  be  attacked  but  in  our 
own  islands  and  the  East  Indies — which  are  not  quite 
near  enough  to  assist  each  other  %  There  is  no  looking 
towards  such  a  prospect. 

If  Burgoyne's  army  is  destroyed,  little  force  left 
in  Canada,  only  seven  thousand  men  in  New  York, 
Howe's  army  not  increased  by  his  tedious  voyage,  and 
three  battles  with  Washington,  if  true — where  are  we 
to  stamp  and  conjure  up  new  armies  \  And  what  will 
less  armies  achieve,  which  such  large  ones  have  not 
compassed  in  three  campaigns  %  We  have  lost  Boston, 
have  got  New  York,  and  perhaps  Philadelphia.  If  the 
Americans  have  fought,  they  will  fight.  If  they  have 
not,  can  you  make  them  \  And  can  you  conquer  them 
without  beating  them  %    Can  you  maintain  the  country 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  E 


50  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

when  you  have  conquered  it  1  Will  a  destroyed  coun- 
try maintain  your  army  1  And  can  this  country  main- 
tain or  recruit  it,  when  you  can  already  get  no  recruits 
but  from  Germany  ?  We  are  like  Lord  Holland  pay- 
ing the  debts  of  his  sons  ;  he  ruined  himself,  and  left 
them  beggars.  * 


LETTER  CCLXXVI. 

Arlington  Street,  Dec.  4,  1777. 

This  letter  will  not  be  preceded  by  nine  postilions 
blowing  horns  ;  but  should  steal  into  Florence  as  mo- 
destly as  a  Roman  general,  who  at  most  hoped  to  obtain 
the  honour  of  an  ovation.  The  second  part  of  my  des- 
patch will  only  beg  you  not  to  despair  of  the  republic. 
After  living  a  whole  month  upon  a  New  York 
Gazette,  and  tired  of  asking  if,  No  news  yetf  Sir 
William  Howe's  aid-de-camp  arrived  on  the  first :  he 
confirmed  the  account  of  two,  not  three,  engagements 
between  the  General  and  Dictator  Washington.  In  the 
first,  Howe  certainly  had  the  advantage  ;  and  in  the 
second,  so  far,  that  Washington,  having  attacked  him  in 
his  post,  was  repelled,  and  is  retired  into  the  Jerseys, 
the  King  having  been  restored  to  the  sovereignty  of 

*  This  does  not  accord  with  the  following  passage  in  Walpole's  letter 
to  Sir  Horace,  of  the  3rd  of  August,  1774  :  "  Lady  Holland  is  dead — 
just  three  weeks  after  her  lord.  She  has  cleared  all  the  debts  of  her 
two  elder  sons  :  the  eldest  has  a  large  fortune,  and  Charles  a  decent 
beginning  of  another  ;  though  it  may  not  last  a  night  if  he  chooses  to 
make  it  a  codicil  to  all  he  has  lost,  and  scorns  to  he  indebted  to  any- 
thing but  his  own  parts  for  his  elevation." — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  51 

Philadelphia.  You  are  to  believe  that  though  Howe 
lost  eleven  hundred  men,  particularly  Hessians,  Wash- 
ington suffered  more  :  but  even  the  gazette  does  not 
enjoin  you  to  suppose  that  the  latter  is  totally  defeated. 
On  the  contrary,  for  fear  so  small  an  army  should 
effect  too  great  things,  you  are  authorized  to  figure  the 
provincial  army  in  the  Jerseys  as  still  consisting  of 
eleven  thousand  men  ;  and  there  are  a  few  reasons  to 
think  that  it  may  now  be  as  large  as  the  Congress  or 
the  provinces,  no  longer  checked,  may  please.  Sir 
William  delays  the  pursuit,  as  the  passage  of  the  Dela- 
ware is  not  yet  clear.  The  lord  his  brother  is  besieg- 
ing a  tough  fort,  and  has  already  lost  a  sixty-four  gun 
ship  and  a  frigate. 

General  Clinton  has  marched  to  relieve  or  find  Bur- 
goyne,  but  was  forced  to  be  content  with  taking  two 
forts,  and  showing  uncommon  valour.  The  next  para- 
graph will  tell  you  why  his  expedition  was  unnecessary. 

On  Tuesday  night  came  news  from  Carleton  at 
Quebec,  which  indeed  had  come  from  France  earlier, 
announcing  the  total  annihilation  (as  to  America)  of 
Burgoyne's  army.  Carleton  declares  he  has  no  authen- 
tic information;  but  from  all  the  intelligence  he  can 
get,  and  which  he  believes,  Burgoyne,  after  despatching 
Colonel  Fraser  with  one  thousand  men  to  seek  provi- 
sions, which  whole  body  with  their  commander  was  cut 
off,  fought  desperately  to  extricate  himself ;  but,  num- 
bers increasing  and  pouring  upon  him,  he  had  been 
forced  to  lay  down  his  arms,  and  the  whole  remaining 
army,  which  some  say  still  consisted  of  five  thousand, 

E  2 


52  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

but  probably  were  reduced  much  lower,  surrendered 
themselves  prisoners,  and  are  to  be  transported  to  Eng- 
land, on  parole  of  not  serving  more  in  America — no 
bad  circumstance  for  us,  if  they  were  but  here  %  Bur- 
goyne  is  said  to  be  wounded  in  three  places  ;  his  van- 
quisher Arnold  is  supposed  to  be  dead  of  his  wounds.*" 
You  may  imagine  this  occasions  some  consternation; 
but  none  at  all,  I  assure  you,  in  the  Temple  of  Con- 
cord. Unless  Croesus  besieged  the  senate  with  an 
army  of  ingots,  I  do  not  believe  there  would  be  a 
deserter  from  the  cause  of  Sacra  Fames.  There  have 
been  indeed  warm  skirmishes  in  both  the  Temples  of 
Honour  and  Virtue,  f  Lord  Chatham  himself  heading  the 
troops  of  the  Opposition,  but  without  making  any  impres- 
sion. Lord  George  Germain  has  received  several  wounds 
from  Charles  Fox;  and  Burke  and  Wedderburn  were 
on  the  point  of  a  closer  engagement ;  but  it  was  made 
up.|  The  Parliament  is  to  be  adjourned  to-morrow 
till  after  the  holidays. 

*  The  following  is  Gibbon's  account,  written  on  the  same  day,  to  Mr. 
Holroyd,  from  the  House  of  Commons  : — "  Dreadful  news,  indeed  ! 
An  English  army  of  nearly  ten  thousand  men  laid  down  their  arms,  and 
surrendered  prisoners  of  war,  on  condition  of  being  sent  to  England, 
and  of  never  serving  against  America.  They  had  fought  bravely,  and 
were  three  days  without  eating.  Burgoync  is  said  to  have  received 
three  wounds.  General  Frazer,  with  two  thousand  men,  killed.  A 
general  cry  for  peace." — En. 

+  Motions  for  an  inquiry  into  the  state  of  the  nation  had  been  moved 
in  both  Houses,  by  the  Duke  of  Richmond  and  Mr.  Fox  ;  and  the  Earl 
of  Chatham  had  also  moved  an  Address  to  the  King,  for  copies  of  General 
Burgoyne's  instructions. — Ed. 

X  No  account  of  these  "  skirmishes  "  has  been  preserved  in  the  Par- 
liamentary History.  The  following  is  from  a  letter  written  by  Lord 
March  to  George  Selwyn  :  "  Bunbury  has  made  an  opposition  speech  in 


TO   SIR    HORACE   MANN.  53 

What  will  be  next,  I,  the  most  unwise  of  men,  do 
not  guess.  Some,  a  little  wiser,  think  the  wisest  could 
not  tell  what  should  be.  The  Opposition,  who,  decried 
as  they  have  been,  have  at  least  not  been  contradicted 
in  their  prophecies  by  events,  think  that,  as  Canada  is 
left  defenceless,  and  New  York  is  not  overcrowded  with 
defenders,  the  whole  force  of  New  England,  which  is 
entire,  as  Burgoyne  experienced,  may  march  to  Quebec, 
or  join  Washington  and  besiege  Clinton  with  as  nume- 
rous an  army  as  they  choose  to  have.  In  that  case, 
Sir  William  Howe  must  abandon  Philadelphia,  and 
march  to  the  succour  of  New  York. 

You  may  be  sure  the  uninformed  expect  that,  as 
America  is  so  nearly  lost,  the  army  will  be  recalled. 
You  may  guess,  too,  that  I,  who  do  not  doat  on  France 
nor  desire  a  war  at  home,  should  not  be  sorry  we  had 
a  little  more  defence  ;  but  who  will  ask  my  advice,  or 
take  it  1  We  are,  in  fact,  very  near  the  end  of  the 
American  war,  but  I  doubt  we  are  at  the  beginning 
of  our  troubles.  Disgrace  is  the  present  chapter,  and 
sufficient  to  the  day  is  the  evil  thereof.  If  disappoint- 
ment opens  our  eyes,  it  has,  like  a  true  friend,  given 
us  bitter  but  wholesome  counsel.     If  obstinacy  is  mis- 

his  usual  manner,  full  of  damned  ,bad  metaphors  and  similes,  that  do 
not  apply.  Addressing  himself  to  Wedderhurn,  he  said,  that  though  a 
squalling  starling,  he  thought  he  had  a  right  to  reply  to  the  learned 
canary-bird.  In  another  part,  that,  though  a  poor  apothecary  and  quack 
in  politics,  he  might,  perhaps,  prescribe  a  remedy  with  success,  when 
the  regular  physician  had  failed  ;  that  he  should  recommend  anodyne 
plasters  rather  than  corrosive  blisters.  Burke  said,  that  his  honour- 
able friend  had  spoken  like  an  independent  country  gentleman,  and  a 
very  accomplished  orator."   Selwyn  Correspondence,  vol.  iii.,  p.  254. — Ed. 


54  THE    HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

taken  for  firmness,  it  will  obtain  at  last,  as  it  generally 
does,  its  genuine  appellation. 

I  am  sorry  you  are  losing  your  nephew  and  Lady 
Lucy,  and  more  sorry  that  you  continue  troubled  with 
lameness.     Though  I  am  a  little  younger,  you  must 
trust  my  greater  experience.     The  gout  will  bear  no 
contradiction.     You  must  submit  to  what  it  gives,  and 
what  it  leaves.     I  do  not  walk  a  mile  in  a  twelve- 
month, and  suffer  if  I  stand  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  but 
what  then  ?     There  are  chairs  for  us  old  folks,  and  in 
this  age   easy  ones   everywhere.     Within   these   two 
months,  sleep,  which  has  been  my  constant  support  and 
food,  has  begun  to  grow  coy.     Can  I  wonder  %     At 
first  I  had  a  mind  to  find  a  cause;  but  I  recollected 
that  twenty  years  ago  I  should  have  said  to  myself,  if 
a  person  of  sixty  complained,  "  The  poor  soul  does  not 
consider  it  is  three-score  !"     We  must  part  with  all  at 
once,  or  see  it  slip  away  by  degrees.     We  cannot  even 
choose  which  ;  nor  should  know  how  to  decide,  if  we 
might.     I  endeavour  to  take  patiently  everything  as  it 
comes.     You  have  a  better  temper,  and  can  do  so  more 
easily.     The  vision  has  been  pleasant  enough  upon  the 
whole  to  both  of  us.     Thank  God,  it  has   been   no 
worse  !     Let  us,  while  we  last,  hope  it  will  not  be. 
If  we  combat  age,  by  pretending  to  believe  that  its 
consequences  are  accidents  that  may  be  removed,  we 
only  deceive  and  torment  ourselves,  but  find  no  re- 
medy.    Adieu ! 


TO     SIR   HORACE  MANN.  55 


LETTER  CCLXXVII. 

Arlington  Street,  Jan.  4,  1778. 

The  period  of  a  month  is  elapsed  ;  and  therefore, 
not  to  break  through  an  ancient  custom  which  I  am 
not  young  enough  to  be  excused  violating,  (though 
legislators  often  dispense  themselves  from  observing 
their  own  laws,)  I  begin  a  letter  to  you,  not  at  all  fore- 
seeing with  what  it  is  to  be  filled.  The  distance  of 
place,  and  the  extreme  taciturnity  of  the  Howes,  must 
have  taught  you  a  little  not  to  expect  events  from 
America  every  day.  Even  Burgoyne  has  left  himself 
nothing  to  say — till  he  arrives.  We  have  lived  a 
fortnight  on  the  capture  of  Mud  Island,  though  it  is 
far  from  clear  that  it  is  yet  taken.  If,  on  the  con- 
trary, New  York  should  be  retaken  by  the  provincials 
— but  stay,  I  do  not  know  they  intend  it, — it  has  a 
most  slender  garrison,  so  has  Quebec  ;  but  Washington 
may  think  it  a  shorter  way  of  terminating  the  war 
by  overwhelming  the  army  under  Howe — if  he  can. 
In  truth,  I  am  no  judge  of  what  is  most  for  their 
interest — but  the  Congress  seem  to  know. 

You  must  not  suppose,  though  I  make  such  short 
work  of  it,  that  it  is  the  language  here  to  sit  down 
and  give  America  for  lost.  The  Ministers  had,  indeed, 
very  nearly  said  so,  and  Lord  North  was  to  bring  terms 
for  peace  after  the  holidays  ;*  mais  nous  avons  change 

*  On  the  10th  of  December,  Lord  Beauchamp  having  moved  an  ad- 
journment "  to  the  20th  of  January,"  Mr.  Burke  moved  to  substitute  the 
words  "this  day  se'nnight."  This  was  opposed  by  Lord  North;  who 
observed,    that   he   hoped   the   campaign   had   produced    events   which 


56  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

tout  cela,  and  nothing  is  talked  of  but  raising  regiments 
and  sending  another  army — I  don't  know  whither,  be- 
cause, supposing  a  new  army  can  be  raised,  which  is 
a  postulatum,  it  will  be  a  little  necessary  to  know 
whether  we  have  New  York,  or  Philadelphia,  or  Que- 
bec ;  and  though,  probably,  one  or  two  of  them — but  I 
really  do  not  know  what  I  say,  nor  have  I  found  any- 
body on  whose  sleeve  I  pin  my  faith  in  these  affairs. 
"We  have  had  assertion,  and  prophecy,  and  confidence, 
and  all  have  been  brought  to  shame,  and  none  of  them 
are  ashamed ;  and  so  I  refer  you  to  the  Chapter  of 
Accidents. 

The  Parliament,  when  it  shall  meet,  is  to  go  into  a 
great  inquiry,  which,  I  conclude,  will  end  in  nothing 
at  all,  or,  rather,  not  end.  The  talk  of  the  day  is, 
that  France  has  signed  a  treaty  with  the  provincials, 
and  the  Stocks  look  pale  upon  it ;  but  all  these  ru- 
mours only  fill  up  the  chinks  of  time,  and  will  be  for- 
gotten when  great  events  happen.  By  great  events  I 
mean  foreign  war  and  domestic  calamity.  We  are  on 
the  high  road  to  both.  The  present  moment  is  only 
like  the  half-hour  at  the  theatre  before  the  play  be- 
gins :  the  galleries  are  riotous,  pelt  the  candle-snuffers, 
or  bawl  for  the  overture  ;  when  the  curtain  is  drawn 
up,  nobody  thinks  but  of  the  tragedy. 

We  have  had  a  great  misfortune  in  our  family :  the 

would  enable  us  to  propose  and  enforce  terms  of  conciliation  with 
the  Colonies.  The  Opposition,  on  the  other  hand,  ridiculed  the  idea 
of  the  present  Ministers  becoming  negotiators  for  peace  and  conciliation, 
as  the  greatest  of  all  possible  absurdities. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  57 

Bishop  of  Exeter  *  is  dead,  who  married  my  brother's 
eldest  daughter.  She  is  left  with  four  children  and  a 
very  small  provision  indeed  ;  but  Sir  Edward  has  acted 
nobly,  and  gives  up  to  her  an  estate  at  Windsor  of 
eight  hundred  a-year,  and  a  house  in  town,  and  keeps 
her  a  coach.  He  has,  indeed,  been  a  most  bountiful 
father  always,  and  has  not  made  his  children  wait  for 
his  death. 

Jan.  7th. 

I  have  received  yours  of  the  10th  of  last  month. 
You  will  have  learnt  before  now  that  the  total  defeat 
of  Washington  was  converted  into  a  total  defeat  of 
Burgoyne,  and  it  is  very  much  the  opinion  of  the 
City  that  the  American  war  will  soon  be  turned  into 
a  French  one ;  but  I  doubt  France  will  stay  till  we 
have  not  a  regiment  left  in  the  island,  which  you 
know  would  save  a  great  deal  of  blood. 

Don't  trouble  your  head  any  longer  about  Lady 
Lucy's  having  a  son  ;  they  are  the  happiest  who  have 
no  children. 

We  are  not  content  with  having  lost  America  ;  we 
shall  not  have  an  army  to  defend  England.  Why  does 
not  Mrs.  Anne  Pitt  return  %  She  would  find  most 
people  as  mad  as  herself. 

*  Dr.  Frederick  Keppel,  fourth  son  of  William-Anne,  second  Earl  of 
Albemarle  ;  in  1754  appointed  Canon  of  Windsor,  and  in  1762  pro- 
moted to  the  Bishoprick  of  Exeter.  He  married,  in  September  1758, 
Laura,  the  eldest  of  the  three  daughters  of  Sir  Edward  Walpole. — Ed. 


58  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCLXXVIII. 

Feb.  6,  1778. 

It  is  odd,  that  in  the  heat  of  a  Parliamentary 
campaign,  enlivened  by  a  civil  war,  I  should  have  no- 
thing particular  to  tell  you.  The  troops  of  the  latter 
are  gone  into  winter  quarters.  The  others  are  in  the 
field,  and  skirmish  every  day.  If  any  of  the  generals 
are  wounded,  they  do  not  own  it.  Some  of  the  forces 
of  the  larger  army  have  deserted  to  the  enemy  ;  and 
on  Monday  the  numbers  of  the  Opposition  mounted 
to  an  hundred  and  sixty  odd.*  On  the  other  hand,  it 
is  commonly  believed,  that  the  old  general  of  the  mi- 
nority, Lord  Chatham,  is  to  command  the  King's  forces. 
It  is  certain  that  there  is  a  great  coolness  between  him 

*  On  Monday,  the  2nd  of  February,  Mr.  Fox  moved,  in  the  Commit- 
tee on  the  State  of  the  Nation,  "  That  no  more  of  the  Old  Corps  be  sent 
out  of  the  nation."  No  reply  was  made  to  his  speech,  and  the  question 
was  negatived  by  259  against  165.  The  motion  excited  much  interest 
out  of  doors.  At  an  early  hour  a  vast  multitude  assembled  in  the  lobby 
and  environs  of  the  House  ;  but,  not  being  able  to  gain  admission  by  en- 
treaty or  interest,  they  forced  their  way  into  the  gallery,  in  spite  of  the 
door-keepers.  The  House,  considering  the  intrusion  a  high  breach  of 
privilege,  directly  ordered  strangers  to  withdraw.  A  partial  clearance  of 
the  gallery,  however,  only  took  place  :  the  gentlemen  withdrew,  but  the 
ladies,  through  courtesy,  were  suffered  to  remain.  Upon  which  Governor 
Johnstone  observed,  that  if  the  motion  for  clearing  the  House  was  a  sup- 
posed propriety  to  keep  the  state  of  the  nation  concealed,  it  was  neces- 
sary that  all  strangers  should  withdraw.  "  This,"  says  Mr.  Hatsell, 
"  produced  a  violent  ferment  for  a  long  time,  the  ladies  showing  great 
reluctance  to  comply  with  the  orders  of  the  House  ;  so  that,  by  their  per- 
severance, business  was  interrupted  for  nearly  two  hours  :  but,  at 
length,  they  too  were  compelled  to  submit." — En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  59 

and  General  Rockingham,'''  but  I  think  that  disagree- 
ment so  much  more  beneficial  to  the  Court ;  and  I  see 
so  little  advantage  to  be  acquired  by  gaining  an  old 
commander  without  soldiers,  so  fractious,  so  unsettled, 
and  so  impracticable,  that  I  shall  wonder  much  if  he  is 
invited  to  take  the  lead.  It  might  add  to  the  present 
distractions,  and  could  cure  none. 

As  my  opinions  do  not  always  agree  with  the  majo- 
rity anywhere,  it  is  not  mine  that  we  are  on  the  brink 
of  a  French  war.  It  is  needless  to  repeat  my  reasons  ; 
I  have  told  you  them  before. 

The  Duke  of  Gloucester  has  again  been  out  of 
order ;  but  not  nearly  so  ill,  I  think,  as  some  thought, 
or  as  I  have  seen  him.  He  still  coughs  a  good  deal. 
His  constitution  is  always  alarming,  and  one  must  not 
trust  too  much  to  the  wonderful  recoveries  he  has  had ; 
yet  perhaps  frequent  advertisements  are  not  contrary, 
lest  his  youth  and  courage  should  make  him  presume 
too  much. 

*  The  coolness  between  these  distinguished  statesmen,  here  referred 
to  by  Walpole,  certainly  existed.  In  the  very  last  letter  ever  addressed 
by  Lord  Chatham  to  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham,  he  had  urged  the  ne- 
cessity of  making  a  firm  stand  for  the  sovereignty  of  England  over 
America  ;  to  which  letter  the  Marquis  gave  this  reply — "  What  your 
lordship  considers  as  a  fundamental  point,  is  one  which  I  can  by  no 
means  think  a  sine  qua  non,  in  a  treaty  to  restore  peace  and  friendship 
between  Great  Britain  and  America.  My  line  in  politics  has  ever  been, 
not  to  hold  out  flattering  expectations  to  the  people,  when  I  was^not 
able  to  see  the  probability  of  their  being  accomplished.  I  conceive  that 
America  will  never  again  assent  to  this  country's  having  actual  power 
within  that  continent.  I  cannot,  therefore,  so  far  betray  my  trust  to  the 
public  as  to  act  as  if  that  was  practicable,  which  I  thought  otherwise." 
—Ed. 


60  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

These  paragraphs  are  the  quintessence  of  my  letter, 
and  it  ought  to  end  here,  were  it  a  decent  quan- 
tity :  yet  why  should  one  write  more  than  one  has 
to  say  %  A  letter  tells  you  I  am  not  negligent, 
though  perhaps  I  grow  lazy.  I  never  was  good  at 
detailing.  The  event  of  things  is  all  I  mind  ;  which 
I  own  does  not  help  conversation.  I  leave  you  igno- 
rant of  nothing  decisive.  The  present  inquiries  in 
Parliament  into  the  conduct  of  the  war  I  look  on  as 
a  tale  of  a  tub.  The  Ministers  give  themselves  up  to 
be  teazed,  more  to  amuse  their  antagonists  than  in- 
form them ;  and  the  latter  are  pleased  with  making 
speeches.  But  can  all  this  make  peace,  or  carry  on 
the  war  %  Neither  :  but  the  inability  of  making 
either  will  produce  other-guess  events,  and  they  will 
be  serious. 

These  are  my  politics,  which  I  adopt  from  no  side, 
and  preach  to  nobody.  They  are  of  not  much 
use  even  to  myself;  for  I  am  not  of  an  age  to  trouble 
myself  about  what  is  to  happen.  When  one  talks  of 
the  times,  one  must  think  something ;  and,  isole  as  I 
am,  it  is  more  natural  to  look  at  the  affairs  of  nations 
than  at  the  feathers  and  fashions  of  the  young,  though 
perhaps  as  grave  a  subject.  I  would  neither  be  boy- 
ish nor  morose.  Age,  without  any  study  on  my  part, 
has  given  me  great  indifference,  and  yet  has  been  so 
good  as  to  leave  me  spirits  enough  to  be  tranquil  and 
to  amuse  myself.  It  is  enough,  not  to  wish  to  live 
or  die. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  (51 


LETTER  CCLXXIX. 

Arlington  Street,  Feb.  18,  1778. 

I  do  not  know  how  to  word  the  following  letter ; 
how  to  gain  credit  with  you !  How  shall  I  intimate 
to  you,  that  you  must  lower  your  topsails,  waive  your 
imperial  dignity,  and  strike  to  the  colours  of  the 
thirteen  United  Provinces  of  America  \  Do  not  trem- 
ble, and  imagine  that  Washington  has  defeated  General 
Howe,  and  driven  him  out  of  Philadelphia ;  or  that 
Gates  has  taken  another  army ;  or  that  Portsmouth 
is  invested  by  an  American  fleet.  No  :  no  military 
netu  event  has  occasioned  this  revolution.  The  sacri- 
fice has  been  made  on  the  altar  of  Peace.  Stop  again : 
peace  is  not  made,  it  is  only  implored, — and,  I  fear, 
only  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic.  In  short,  yesterday, 
February  17th,  a  most  memorable  era,  Lord  North 
opened  his  Conciliatory  Plan, — no  partial,  no  collusive 
one.'"  In  as  few  words  as  I  can  use,  it  solicits  peace 
with  the  States  of  America  :  it  haggles  on  no  terms  ; 

*  "  A  dull,  melancholy  silence,"  says  the  Annual  Register,  "  for  some 
time  succeeded  to  Lord  North's  speech.  It  had  been  heard  with  pro- 
found attention,  but  without  a  single  mark  of  approbation  to  any  part, 
from  any  description  of  men,  or  any  particular  man  in  the  House. 
Astonishment,  dejection,  and  fear  overclouded  the  whole  assembly.  Al- 
though the  Minister  had  declared,  that  the  sentiments  he  expressed 
that  day  had  been  those  which  he  always  entertained,  it  is  certain  that 
few  or  none  had  understood  him  in  that  manner  ;  and  he  had  been  re- 
presented to  the  nation  at  large,  as  the  person  in  it  the  most  tenacious  of 
those  parliamentary  rights  which  he  now  resigned,  and  the  most  remote 
from  the  submissions  which  he  now  proposed  to  make.  It  was  generally, 
therefore,  concluded,  that  something  more  extraordinary  and  alarming 
had  happened  than  yet  appeared,  which  was  of  force  to  produce  such  an 
apparent  change  in  measures,  principles,  and  arguments." — Ed. 


02  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

it  acknowledges  the  Congress,  or  anybody  that  pleases 
to  treat ;  it  confesses  errors,  misinformation,  ill-success, 
and  impossibility  of  conquest ;  it  disclaims  taxation, 
desires  commerce,  hopes  for  assistance,  allows  the  in- 
dependence of  America,  not  verbally,  yet  virtually, 
and  suspends  hostilities  till  June  1779.  It  does  a 
little  more  :  not  verbally,  but  virtually  it  confesses 
that  the  Opposition  have  been  in  the  right  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end."5' 

The  warmest  American  cannot  deny  but  these  gra- 
cious condescensions  are  ample  enough  to  content  that 
whole  continent ;  and  yet,  my  friend,  such  accommo- 
dating facility  had  one  defect, — it  came  too  late.  The 
treaty  between  the  high  and  mighty  States  and  France 
is  signed  ;  and,  instead  of  peace,  we  must  expect  war 
with  the  high  allies.f  The  French  army  is  come  to 
the  coast,  and  their  officers  here  are  recalled. 

The  House  of  Commons  embraced  the  plan,  and 
voted  it,  nemine  contradicente.     It  is  to  pass  both 

*  Gibbon,  in  a  letter  written  on  the  same  day  to  Mr.  Holroyd,  says, 
— "  Opposition,  after  expressing  their  doubts  whether  the  lance  of 
Achilles  could  cure  the  wound  which  it  had  inflicted,  could  not  refuse 
their  assent  to  the  principles  of  conduct  which  they  themselves  had  al- 
ways recommended.  I  do  not  find  that  the  world,  that  is,  a  few  people 
whom  I  happen  to  converse  with,  are  much  inclined  to  praise  Lord 
North's  ductibility  of  temper.  In  the  service  of  next  Friday  you  will, 
however,  take  notice  of  the  injunction  given  by  the  Liturgy  :  '  And  all 
the  people  shall  say  after  the  Minister,  Turn  us  again,  O  Lord,  and  so 
shall  we  be  turned.'  " — Ed. 

f  The  Marquis  of  Granby,  in  a  letter  to  Lord  Chatham,  of  the  same 
date,  states,  that  "  in  the  course  of  the  debate  Mr.  Fox  informed  the 
House,  that  a  report  strongly  obtained,  that  within  ten  days  France  had 
actually  signed  a  treaty  with  the  Americans,  acknowledging  their  inde- 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  G3 

Houses  with  a  rapidity  that  will  do  everything  but 
overtake  time  past.  All  the  world  is  in  astonishment. 
As  my  letter  will  not  set  out  till  the  day  after  to- 
morrow, I  shall  have  time  to  tell  you  better  what  is 
thought  of  this  amazing  step. 

Feb.  20. 

In  sooth  I  cannot  tell  you  what  is  thought.  No- 
body knows  what  to  think.  To  leap  at  once  from  an 
obstinacy  of  four  years  to  a  total  concession  of  every- 
thing ;  to  stoop  so  low,  without  hopes  of  being  for- 
given— who  can  understand  such  a  transformation  \ 
I  must  leave  you  in  all  your  wonderment;  for  the 
cloud  is  not  dispersed.  When  it  shall  be,  I  doubt 
it  will  discover  no  serene  prospect !  All  that  remains 
certain  is,  that  America  is  not  only  lost,  but  given  up. 
We  must  no  longer  give  ourselves  Continental  airs  !  I 
fear  even  our  trident  will  find  it  has  lost  a  consi- 
derable prong. 

I  have  lived  long,  but  never  saw  such  a  day  as  last 
Tuesday !  From  the  first,  I  augured  ill  of  this  Ame- 
rican war ;  yet  do  not  suppose  that  I  boast  of  my 
penetration.  Far  was  I  from  expecting  such  a  con- 
clusion !  Conclusion! — y  sommes  nous?  Acts  of 
Parliament  have  made  a  war,  but  cannot  repeal  one. 
They  have  provoked — not  terrified;   and  Washington 

pendence,  and  entering  into  an  alliance  with  them  :  the  Ministers  re- 
mained totally  silent,  until  Sir  George  Savile  pressed  the  question  to 
Lord  North  in  so  direct  and  positive  a  manner,  that  at  last  he  confessed 
'  that  he  had  received  the  same  intelligence,  though  not  officially,  and 
that  therefore  he  could  neither  affirm  nor  deny  the  authority  of  the 
account.'  " — Ed. 


64  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

and  Gates  have  respected  the  Speaker's  mace  no  more 
than  Oliver  Cromwell  did. 

You  shall  hear  as  events  arise.  I  disclaim  all  saga- 
city, and  pretend  to  no  foresight.  It  is  not  an  Eng- 
lishman's talent.  Even  the  second-sight  of  the  Scots 
has  proved  a  little  purblind. 

Have  you  heard  that  Voltaire  is  actually  in  Paris  ?* 
Perhaps  soon  you  will  learn  French  news  earlier  than 
I  can. 

What  scenes  my  letters  to  you  have  touched  on 
for  eight-and-thirty  years  !  I  arrived  here  at  the  eve 
of  the  termination  of  my  father's  happy  reign.  The 
Rebellion,  as  he  foresaw,  followed  ;  and  much  disgrace. 
Another  war  ensued,  with  new  disgraces.  And  then 
broke  forth  Lord  Chatham's  sun ;  and  all  was  glory 
and  extensive  empire.  Nor  tranquillity  nor  triumph 
are  our  lot  now  !  The  womb  of  time  is  not  with 
child  of  a  mouse, — but  adieu  !  I  shall  probably  write 
again  before  you  have  digested  half  the  meditations 
this  letter  will  have  conjured  up. 


LETTER  CCLXXX. 

-  Arlington  Street,  March  5,  1778. 

Your  letter,  my  dear  sir,  which  I  received  two 
days  ago,  is  dated  the  7th  of  last  month ;  and  you 

*  Madame  du  Deffand  had  written  to  Walpole  on  the  10th — "  Vol- 
taire arrived  here  yesterday,  at  four  in  the  afternoon,  with  his  niece 
Madame  Denis.  I  wrote  him  a  short  note,  to  which  he  has  returned 
this  answer : — '  J'  arrive  mort,  et  je  ne  veux  ressusciter  que  pour  me 
jettcr  aux  genoux  de  Madame  la  Marquise  du  DefFand.'  " — Ed. 


TO   SIR    HORACE    MANN.  65 

there  speak  with  great  distrust  of  seeing  Lady  Lucy 
again.  I  fear  your  forebodings  were  too  well  founded ; 
for  it  is  said  here  that  she  is  actually  dead."*  I  had 
heard  so  ten  days  ago,  but  nattered  myself  that  it  was 
not  true.  Now  I  see  it  mentioned  in  the  papers.  As 
you  only  just  knew  her  enough  to  love  and  lament 
her,  I  am  sorry  you  ever  did  see  her !  Your  nephew 
will  feel  the  loss  of  so  amiable  a  woman ;  and  yet  it 
is  better  for  him  that  it  is  over ;  as  he  was  only  witness 
to  her  decay,  and  perpetually  tortured  with  fears  and 
doubts.  His  behaviour  is  exceedingly  honourable  to 
him,  and  discovers  a  true  Mann's  heart, — unluckily, 
to  make  that  expression  just,  it  is  necessary  to  double 
the  n.  I  have  talked  to  you  philosophically  on  the 
vanity  of  being  attached  to  the  continuation  of  fami- 
lies ;  yet  it  is  so  natural,  and  I  am  so  susceptible  of 
that  vanity,  that  I  look  forward  to  your  nephew's 
marrying  again,  and  having  an  heir  to  Linton. 

You  will  have  been  impatient  for  the  consequences 
of  Lord  North's  Conciliatory  Plan.  The  substantial 
consequences  cannot,  you  are  sensible,  be  known  till 
the  Commissioners  arrive  in  America,!  and  return  the 

*  Lady  Lucy  Mann  died  in  Italy,  on  the  7th  of  January. 

t  The  three  Commissioners  appointed  to  treat  of  the  means  of  quiet- 
ing the  disorders  in  America,  were  the  Earl  of  Carlisle,  Mr.  Eden,  after- 
wards Lord  Auckland,  and  Governor  George  Johnstone.  They  left 
England  in  April,  in  the  ship  Trident.  In  a  letter  written  "  from  the 
middle  of  the  Atlantic  Ocean,"  to  his  friend  George  Selwyn,  Lord  Car- 
lisle gives  the  following  graphic  description  of  the  situation  of  the  Com- 
missioners :  "  This  is  the  first  of  May  ;  but  alas  !  we  have  no  chimney- 
sweepers and  garlands ;  no  milk-maids  dancing  before  us  !  We  have  no 
music  but  the  winds,  and  nothing  seems  inclined  to  dance  but  our  vessel. 
Sea-sickness  is,  I  flatter  myself,  got  the  better  of.     Conceive  our  dinner, 

VOL.  III. NEW    SERIES.  F 


66  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

answer  of  the  Congress  ;  unless  their  departure  is  an- 
ticipated by  some  strong  declaration  of  France  in  their 
favour,  and  which  would  render  a  treaty  hopeless  : 
many  expect  such  a  notification  immediately.  I  am 
grown  such  a  sceptic,  that  I  believe  nothing  but  facts 
past.  The  bills  meet  no  obstruction  in  the  House  of 
Commons.     They  are  to-day  before  the  Lords  ;  where 

and  judge  of  our  comforts.  To  keep  ourselves  close  to  the  table,  it  is 
necessary  to  hold  by  the  legs,  and  by  so  doing  you  must  abandon  your 
plate,  which  perhaps  is  flung,  by  the  violence  of  the  ship's  motion,  either 
into  your  own  or  your  neighbour's  lap.  The  conveyance  of  a  glass  to 
your  mouth  is  no  easy  matter  ;  but  it  requires  infinite  dexterity  in  the 
servant,  and  some  good  fortune,  to  bring  it  to  you.  Notwithstanding  all 
this,  I  was  able  to  attend  dinner  the  second  day,  though  it  blew  hard  ; 
and  am  now  so  little  affected  by  the  rolling  of  the  ship,  that  I  hardly 
know,  when  I  am  reading,  whether  there  is  any  motion  or  not.  Such  a 
child  of  habit  is  man  !  Close  confinement  must  have  its  moments  of 
melancholy.  A  walk  after  supper  upon  deck,  the  dashing  of  the  sea, 
the  noise  of  the  winds,  send  me  sometimes  to  bed,  with  thoughts  which 
woidd  not  be  productive  of  rest,  unless  they  were  got  the  better  of  by  a 
little  resolution.  You  will  allow  the  contrast  is  strong  between  my  pre- 
sent situation  and  that  I  was  in  some  days  ago.  You  know  the  wife  and 
children  that  I  have  torn  myself  from,  and  I  need  say  no  more  upon  this 
subject." — See  Selwyn  Correspondence,  vol.  iii.  p.  279.  Frederick 
Howard,  fifth  Earl  of  Carlisle,  the  writer  of  the  characteristic  letter 
above  quoted,  was  the  oidy  son  of  Henry,  fifth  Earl,  by  Isabella,  daughter 
of  William,  fifth  Lord  Byron.  In  1770,  he  had  married  Lady  Carolina, 
daughter  of  Granville  Leveson  Gower,  first  Marquis  of  Stafford.  In 
1798,  on  the  death  of  the  fifth  Lord  Byron,  he  was  appointed  guardian  of 
the  great  Poet  ;  who,  under  the  impression  that  his  relation  had  inten- 
tionally slighted  him,  published  some  sarcasms  upon  him  in  his  juvenile 
poems,  which  he  afterwards  regretted,  and  thus  alludes  to  in  the  third 
canto  of  Cliilde  Harold,  in  adverting  to  the  melancholy  fate  of  the  Hon. 
Frederick  Howard,  the  Earl's  youngest  son,  one  of  those  who  fell  glori- 
ously at  Waterloo  : — 

"  Their  praise  is  hymn'd  by  loftier  harps  than  mine  ; 
Yet  one  I  would  select  from  that  proud  throng, 
Partly  because  they  blend  me  with  his  line, 

Ami  partly  Unit  I  did  his  Sire  some  wrong.'" — En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  07 

I  suppose  they  will  experience  comments  rather  than 
impediments.     The  intended  pacification  is  not  very 
popular,   yet  at  most   produces   low  murmurs.     The 
nation  has   leaped    from    outrageous  war  to  a   most 
humiliating  supplication  for  peace,  with  as  little  emo- 
tion as  one  passes  in  an  ague  from  a  shivering  fit  to  a 
burning  one  ;  though  I  think  in  the  inverted  order,  for 
I  never  had  an  ague.     Methinks  the  patient's  being 
so  little  affected  by  the  sudden  transition  looks  as  if 
its   constitution   had   contracted   the   insensibility  of 
dotage.     Every  week   may  produce    an   era ;    yet   I 
think  nothing  very  important  will  happen  yet.    France 
has  patience  in  one  sense  of  the  word,  and  we  in 
another ;  and  therefore  we  shall  bear  as  long  as  they 
forbear.     They  best  know  what  term  they  have   set 
to   their   inactivity ;     my  whole  wisdom   consists   in 
abstaining   from    conjectures.      Penetration   is  a  fine 
thing  ;  a  genius  now  and  then  looks  into  futurity  : 
but  all  I  know  is,   that  I  have  no  such  talent,  nor 
believe  much  in  those  who   pretend  to  it.     My  old 
face,    like   the  one  of  Janus,   only  looks  back ;    the 
young  one  may  look  forward  to  what  will  belong  to 
it,  and  youth  is  apt  to  think  it  sees  far :   but  age  is 
as  often  mistaken,  when  it  takes  its  experience  for 
spectacles ;    they    magnify   the    dim   eye    that   looks 
through  them,  more  than  the  objects  they  look  to. 

I  will  certainly  mention  you  at  our  little  Court, 
when  they  return  to  town.  At  present  they  are  gone 
to  the  Duke's  lodge  in  the  New  Forest  for  change  of 
air.      Indeed,   it   seems   very  difficult   for   his   Royal 

F    2 


68  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Highness  to  find  a  situation  that  suits  him.  Heats 
destroy  him,  and  damps  are  as  bad.  He  caught  cold 
above  a  month  ago,  had  a  violent  cough,  and  the 
asthma  frightfully  since.^  It  is  a  terrifying  disorder 
to  see ;  yet  I  am  much  easier  when  he  suffers  under 
it,  than  when  the  humour  falls  on  his  bowels.  If  he 
does  not  mend  in  the  Forest,  they  will  make  a  voyage 
to  Bourdeaux  for  some  weeks  for  the  benefit  of  the 
sea-air,  and  return  when  the  great  heats  reign.  Mrs. 
Haywood  has  been  dying  of  a  fever — so  have  many 
persons.  Sir  Thomas  Hesketh  died  at  once  the  night 
before  last — but  has  long  been  dying."5' 

The  principality  of  Auverquerquef  is  a  sort  of  Iri- 
cism.  King  William  would  not  allow  the  Lords  Roch- 
ford  and  Grantham,  as  they  were  illegitimate  branches 
from  Prince  Maurice  and  Prince  Henry  Frederic,  to 
take  the  name  of  Nassau,  but  obliged  them  to  bear 
those  of  Zulestein  and  Auverquerque  ;  after  his  death 
they  assumed  that  of  Nassau.  The  Duke  of  Marlbo- 
rough never  preferred  the  principality  of  Mindleheim 
to  his  duchy  :  surely  an  English  peerage  with  sub- 
stantial privilege  in  one's  own  country  is  more  dig- 
nified than  a  nominal  principality  in  another  ;  when 
it  is  transferred  to  a  third  country,  it  is  still  more  ri- 
diculous. I  wonder  Mademoiselle  Pitt  does  not  beg 
the  Pope  to  create  her  Princess  Fossani.     I  knew  a 

*  This  is  one  of  Walpole's  smartisms,  and  means,  that  though  Sir 
Thomas  had  long  been  dying,  his  deatli  was  sudden  and  unexpected. — B. 

+  Lord  Cowper,  being  made  a  Prince  of  the  Empire,  had  a  mind  to  have 
that  title ;  his  mother  being  one  of  the  daughters  and  co-heiresses  of  Lord 
Grantham. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  CD 

foreigner  at  Paris  who  had  a  madness  of  wearing  the 
orders  of  different  countries.  He  was  forbidden  to 
assume  the  Saint  Esprit,  but  indulged  in  every  other 
knighthood.  I  have  seen  him  at  the  theatres  by  turns 
Knight  of  the  Garter,  Bath,  Thistle,  Elephant,  &c.  &c. 
We  had  once  a  mad  Queen  Elizabeth  here,  who  on  the 
first  day  of  the  session,  as  my  father  was  coming  down 
from  St.  James's,  gave  him  her  speech  and  ordered 
him  to  read  it  to  her  Parliament ; — it  was  not  Mrs. 
Pitt,  I  assure  you,  nor  Lady  Mary  Coke. 

Strawberry  Hill,  10th. 

It  looks  very  much  now  as  if  the  war  would  very 
soon  make  itself.  A  French  squadron  is  sailed  west- 
ward, and  Captain  Digby  has  been  despatched  with 
another  in  pursuit  of  it."*  Seamen  are  not  apt  to  be  so 
formal  and  dilatory  as  plenipotentiaries.  The  passions 
too  begin  to  awaken.  The  City  grows  moody  again  ;  the 
Stocks  fall ;  the  Ministers  are  warmly  pressed  in  both 
Houses.  The  new  loan  of  six  millions  does  not  take 
kindly.  The  bended  knee  to  America  does  not  please. 
Dr.  Franklin  boasts  that  Philadelphia  will  be  starved 
into  a  Burgoynism.  Lord  Temple  seems  to  snuff 
confusion  and  is  come  forth  again,  and  spoke  against 
the  conciliatory  bills,  f  Last  year  he  entrapped  John 
the  Painter :  I  suppose  he  solves  these  inconsistencies 

*  It  appears,  by  a  letter  from  Dr.  Franklin,  dated  Passy,  February  21, 
that  several  American  ships,  loaded  with  stores  for  the  Congress,  were 
about  to  sail,  under  the  convoy  of  a  French  squadron. — Ed. 

f  Lord  Temple  is  stated,  in  a  letter  from  Mr.  Vaughan  to  Dr.  Frank- 
lin, to  have  "  reprobated  the  concessions,  and  equally  the  mad,  foolish 
ministers,  who  could  neither  keep  peace,  make  war,  nor  negotiate  peace 


70  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

by  constancy  to  self.  In  that  light,  how  uniform  has 
his  whole  life  been  ;  though  every  brother  and  every 
friend  has  been  sacrificed  to  his  passions !  I,  who 
sit  aloof  from  the  conflict,  see  these  things  as  they 
are ;  and  should  behold  them  with  indifference,  if  the 
general  want  of  principle  were  not  a  worse  indication 
of  approaching  ruin  than  the  concomitant  circum- 
stances. All  men  see  a  prospect  of  rising  on  con- 
fusion :  no  man  reflects  that  want  of  virtue  cannot 
correct  what  the  want  of  it  has  occasioned.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCLXXXI. 

March  17,  1778. 

I  have  scarce  a  moment's  time  to  write,  and  it 
is  only — what  an  only ! — to  tell  you  that  the  French 
Ambassador  notified  to  Lord  Weymouth  on  Friday, 
that  his  Court  had  concluded  a  treaty  of  commerce 
and  amity  with  the  independent  States  of  America  ; 
but  had  had  the  attention  not  to  make  it  an  exclusive 
treaty :  so,  we  may  trade  with  America,  if  America 
will  condescend  to  trade  with  us.  I  doubt  there  were 
some  words  of  France  not  being  disposed  to  be  mo- 
lested in  their  commerce  with  their  new  friends.  In 
consequence  of  that  declaration,  Lord  Stormont's  re- 
call was  sent  oif  that  night.  To-day  the  Ministers 
are  to  acquaint  both  Houses  with  the  insult ;  and,  I 

again  :  lie  wanted  a  treaty  without  Parliament,  and  preliminaries  settled 
before  concession. "—Ed. 


TO  SIR   HORACE   MANN.  71 

suppose,  intend  to  be  addressed  with  vows  of  support.'"' 
The  Stocks,  not  being  members  of  Parliament,  do  not 
vote  for  war,  nor  behave  like  heroes. — Alas !  I  am 
ashamed  of  irony.  Neither  do  I  love  to  send  my 
auguries  through  every  post-house.  However,  every 
one  must  know  that  a  French  war  is  not  exactly  a 
compensation  for  the  loss  of  America.  We,  the  herd, 
the  Achivi,  must  take  the  beverage  our  rulers  brew 
for  us ;  and  we  that  can,  must  console  ourselves  with 
not  having  contributed  to  the  potion.  I  believe  it 
will  be  a  bitter  one  ;  but  I  should  be  still  less  tran- 
quil, if  I  had  furnished  a  drop. 

I  have  received  your  melancholy  letter  on  poor  Lady 
Lucy's  death,  and  had  written  to  you  on  it  before, 
nor  will  open  the  wound  again.  Our  situation  will 
remove  that  cloud,  and  fill  your  mind  with  others. 

Europe  is  going  again  to  be  a  theatre  of  blood,  as 
America  has  been.  The  Emperor  and  Prussia  are  going, 
I  think  have  begun  a  war !  ;Tis  endless  to  moralize  ; 
human  life  is  forced  to  do  so,  but  en  pure  yerte.  The 
system  changes,  not  the  consequences.  Force  was  the 
first  great  arbitress  of  human  affairs.  The  shrewd 
observed,  that  Art  could  counteract  and  controul 
Strength — and  for  a  long  time  Policy  ruled.  But,  Po- 
licy having  exhausted  all  its  resources,  and  having 
been  detected  in  them  all,  Impudence  restored  Force, 

*  A  message  from  the  King,  together  with  a  copy  of  the  Declaration 
delivered  hy  the  French  Ambassador  to  Lord  Weymouth,  had  this  day 
been  presented  to  both  Houses,  and  an  Address  of  Thanks  agreed  to. 
Orders  were  also  sent  to  our  Ambassador,  Lord  Stormont,  to  withdraw 
from  the  Court  of  France. — Ed. 


72  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

which  is  now  sole  governess.  She  seized  and  shared 
Poland,  and  now  sets  up  the  same  right  to  Bavaria. 
We  tried  the  plan  in  America,  but  forgot  we  had  not 
that  essential  to  the  new  jus  gentium,  an  hundred 
thousand  men,  and  that  our  Bavaria*  was  on  t'other 
side  of  the  Atlantic.  I  hope  the  ocean,  that  was  against 
us  there,  will  be  our  friend  at  home ! 

Adieu !  This  is  a  new  chapter  in  our  correspond- 
ence. I  will  write  as  events  rise  ;  you  must  excuse 
me  if  I  have  not  always  time,  as  I  have  not  at  present, 
to  make  my  letters  long  in  proportion  to  the  matter. 


LETTER  CCLXXXII. 

March  27,  1778. 

The  war  is  not  yet  arrived,  though  it  is  certainly 
at  next  door,  for  France  laid  an  embargo  on  all  our 
vessels  in  their  ports  ;  one  may  call  it,  seized  them. 
Lord  Stormont  himself,  though  got  to  Boulogne,  is 
forced  to  stay  there  for  want  of  conveyance,  or  must 
come  round  by  Holland.  This  made  us  stare  a  little 
two  days  ago  ;  but  last  night  I  heard  that  this  hos- 
tility is  conditional,  and  only  a  boisterous  way  of 
wrenching  out  of  our  hands  the  Kouli  Khan,  a  French 
ship  that  we  had  taken,  and  that  Monsieur  de  Noailles 
had  reclaimed  without  success.  I  doubt  we  shall  take 
and  give  so  many  of  these  slaps,  that  the  declaration 

*  The  Emperor  and  the  King  of  Prussia  were  at  war ;  the  Emperor 
claiming  part  of  the  domains  of  the  late  Elector  of  Bavaria. 


TO  SIR    BORACE    MANN.  73 

of  war  may,  to  save  trouble,  be  reserved  to  the  peace  ; 
and  then,  as  Hamlet  says, 

the  funeral  baked  meats 
Will  coldly  furnish  forth  the  marriage  tables. 

There  was  a  report,  too,  that  Spain  would  send  us  a 
notification  of  having  made  a  treaty  with  the  Ameri- 
cans also  ;  but  this  is  contradicted,  and  their  new 
Ambassador,  Almadovar,  is  said  to  have  received  orders 
to  come  to  us  forthwith.  In  short,  rumours  of  wars 
beget  a  thousand  other  reports.  The  town  has  ex- 
pected a  restoration  of  Lord  Chatham ;  but  that  notion 
has  subsided  too.  The  best  thing  I  do  know  is,  that 
we  are  very  seriously  occupied  in  defending  ourselves. 
No  more  troops  are  to  go  to  America  ;  we  are  collecting 
our  whole  force  ;  the  new-raised  regiments  will  have 
been  an  advantageous  addition,  as  they  were  not 
embarked  ;  and  the  militia,  which  is  complete  in  every 
county  but  two,  is  to  take  the  field.  As  to  America, 
it  will  certainly  retain  its  seat  among  the  sovereign- 
ties of  this  world :  so,  Columbus's  invasion  begins  to 
be  set  aside  ;  and  one  quarter  of  the  globe  will  not 
be  held  in  commendam  by  another !  Imagination 
could  expatiate  widely  on  that  chapter — but  what 
have  I  to  do  with  a  new  asra  in  the  annals  of  mankind  ? 

Our  own  old  continent,  that  has  so  long  been  ravaged 
by  ambition,  is  not  yet  abandoned  to  the  comfort  of 
decay.  Yet  one  now  hears  that  hostilities  between  the 
Emperor  and  Prussia  have  not  commenced,  as  was  said. 
I  doubt  that  imperial  philosopher,  who  scattered  so 
many  humane  apophthegms  last  year  at  Paris,  is  a  little 


74  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

too  impatient  to  employ  his  Austrian  talons.  What 
a  farce  to  visit  hospitals,  when  one  thinks  of  nothing 
but  stocking  them  with  maimed  carcases !  What 
buckets  of  blood  it  costs,  before  a  Prince  takes  his 
place  at  the  table  of  Fame,  that  might  be  earned  so 
much  better  by  benevolence !  The  enemies  of  man- 
kind arrogate  what  is  due  only  to  the  friends. 

I  was  going  on  perhaps  in  a  string  of  moralities, 
but  was  interrupted  by  Dr.  Monro;  who  came  to  tell 
me  that  Lord  Orford  is  come  to  himself.  This  is  such 
a  deliverance  to  me,  that  I  cannot  think  of  any  con- 
sequences :  indeed,  I  do  not  care  about  them.  Pray 
notify  this  lucid  interval  to  the  excellent  Signora 
Madre.     Adieu ! 


LETTER  CCLXXXIII. 

Thursday,  April  9th,  177S. 

I  am  not  going  to  announce  more  war  than  by 
my  last :  it  seems  to  sleep,  like  a  paroli  at  Faro,  and 
be  reserved  for  another  deal.  Though  I  write  oftener 
than  usual,  I  have  not  a  full  cargo  every  time  ;  but 
I  have  two  novel  events  to  send  you.  The  newspapers 
indeed  anticipate  many  of  my  articles ;  but,  as  I  sup- 
pose you  pay  me  the  compliment  of  opening  my  letters 
before  the  Gazettes,  I  shall  be  the  first  to  inform  you, 
though  but  by  five  minutes.  Lord  Chatham  has  again 
appeared  in  the  House  of  Lords,  and  probably  for  the 
last  time.     He  was  there  on  Tuesday,  against  the  ear- 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  75 

nest  remonstrance  of  his  physician ;  and,  I  think, 
only  to  make  confusion  worse  confounded.  He  had 
intended  to  be  very  hostile  to  the  Ministers,  and  yet 
to  force  himself  into  all  their  places  by  maintaining 
the  sovereignty  of  America,  to  which  none  of  the  Op- 
position but  his  own  few  followers  adhere  ;  and  they 
cannot,  like  a  strolling  company  in  a  barn,  fill  all  the 
parts  of  a  drama  with  four  or  five  individuals.  It 
appeared  early  in  his  speech  that  he  had  lost  himself ; 
he  did  not  utter  half  he  intended,  and  sat  down  :  but, 
rising  to  reply  to  the  Duke  of  Richmond,  he  fell 
down  in  an  apoplectic  fit,  and  was  thought  dead. 
They  transported  him  into  the  Jerusalem  Chamber, 
and  laid  him  on  a  table.  In  twenty  minutes  he  re- 
covered his  senses,  and  was  carried  to  a  messenger's 
house  adjoining,  where  he  still  remains.  The  scene 
was  very  affecting ;  his  two  sons,  and  son-in-law  Lord 
Mahon,  were  round  him.  The  House  paid  a  proper 
mark  of  respect  by  adjourning  instantly. * 

The  same  incertitude  remains  on  our  general  situa- 
tion. I  pretend  to  tell  you  facts  only,  not  reasonings  ; 
and  therefore  will  say  no  more  now  on  the  public.  One 
event,  indeed,  of  Parliamentary  complexion  touches  my 

*  On  the  6th  of  April,  Lord  Chatham  had  addressed  a  note  to  the 
Duke  of  Richmond,  expressive  of  his  concern  at  finding  himself  under 
so  very  wide  a  difference  with  his  Grace,  as  between  the  sovereignty  and 
allegiance  of  America,  that  he  despaired  of  bringing  about  successfully 
any  honourable  issue.  He  added,  that  "  he  was  inclined  to  try  it,  before 
this  bad  grew  worse,  and  hoped  to  be  in  town  on  the  morrow."  Ac- 
cordingly, on  the  morrow,  Lord  Chatham  appeared  in  the  House  of 
Lords  for  the  last  time  ;  when  the  affecting  scene  above  described  took 
place. — See  Chatham  Correspondence,  vol.  iv.  p.  548. — Ed. 


76  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

private  feelings  very  particularly.  The  King  has  de- 
manded a  provision  for  his  younger  children,  and  has 
been  so  good  as  to  add  the  Duke's  to  the  list — nobly 
too,  both  from  the  proportion  of  the  allowance,  and  the 
circumstances  of  the  times.  The  King's  sons  are  to 
have  ten  thousand  a-year  each,  his  daughters  six, 
Prince  William  eight,  and  Princess  Sophia  four.** 
Thus  both  income  and  rank  are  ascertained.  This  is 
a  great  thorn  extracted  from  all  our  sides,  and  I  trust 
will  have  good  influence  on  his  Royal  Highness's 
health. 

I  was  debarrasse'd  (not  in  so  comfortable  a  way)  of 
my  nephew.  He  has  resumed  the  entire  dominion  of 
himself,  and  is  gone  into  the  country  and  intends  to 
command  the  militia.  I  have  done  all  I  could,  when 
scarce  anything  was  in  my  power,  to  prevent  it ;  but 
in  vain.  He  has  even  asked  to  be  a  major-general, 
which  officers  of  militia  cannot  be.  What  a  humilia- 
tion to  know  he  is  thus  exposing  himself,  and  not  dare 
to  interpose  !  Yet  he  is  not  ignorant  of  his  situation. 
He  said  the  other  day  to  his  Dalilah,  speaking  of  Dr. 
Monro,  "  Patty,  I  like  this  doctor  !  don't  you  \  We 
will  have  him  next  time."  What  an  amazing  compost 
of  sense,  insensibility,  and  phrenzy  !     Adieu  ! 

*  A  message  from  the  King  to  this  effect  had  been  brought  down  to 
the  House  of  Commons  by  Lord  North  on  the  8th  of  April. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  77 


LETTER  CCLXXXIV. 

Strawberry  Hill,  May  9,  1778. 

As  I  have  engaged  myself  to  stock  your  impa- 
tience with  frequent  intelligence,  you  may  think  a 
month's  interval  a  breach  of  promise  ;  but  though  I 
write  to  display  my  diligence,  it  is  not  to  convey  any 
event.  You  yourself  have  told  us  all  the  fact  we 
know ;  at  least,  the  newspapers  have  done  you  the 
honour  of  sending  the  information  of  the  sailing  of  the 
Toulon  squadron — not  in  terms  ;  but  they  say  an  ex- 
press arrived  from  Sir  H.  Mann  without  eating,  drink- 
ing, or  sleeping  ;  and  we  know  nothing  else — I  mean 
we,  the  people, — that  corresponds  with  the  date  of  such 
importance.  Pray  can  you  tell  whether  our  fleet  is 
gone  after  it  \  For  the  newspapers  would  persuade  us 
that  Lord  Sandwich  has  detained  it  at  Portsmouth, 
to  divert  their  Majesties,  as  if  they  loved  shows  better 
than  dominions.'" 

We  shall  be  in  no  want  of  sights  this  summer  : 
every  county  will  have  a  camp  of  its  own  ;  the  coasts 
will  be  amused  with  sieges.  An  American  privateer 
has  attempted  Whitehaven,  and  plundered  Lord  Sel- 
kirk's house.f     This  is  a  little  ungrateful,  for  the  Ame- 

*  To  stimulate  the  seamen  and  artificers  at  their  different  occupations, 
the  King  and  Queen  visited  the  dock-yards  and  shipping  at  Chatham, 
Sheerness,  and  Portsmouth.  At  the  latter  place,  they  remained  a  week  ; 
during  which  time  the  King  held  a  levee  on  board  Admiral  Keppel's  ship, 
the  Prince  George. — Ed. 

t  This  privateer  was  commanded  by  the  celebrated  Paul  Jones,  a 
native  of  Selkirk,  who,  going  to  America  when  very  young,  became  a 


78  THE   HON.  HORACE    WALPOLE 

ricans  certainly  owe  their  independence  to  the  Scots; 
though,  to  be  sure,  in  strictness  it  was  not  what  the 
Scots  intended  for  them.  They  have  done,  or  will  do 
us  some  good  too,  though  perhaps  with  as  little  design  ; 
for  I  think  we  shall  be  forced  to  come  to  our  senses. 
Great  countries  ought  always  to  be  physicked  and 
dieted  after  long  peace  or  a  course  of  victories;  for 
prosperity  either  breeds  humours  in  the  body,  or  flies 
to  the  head  :  the  first  produce  tumours,  and  the  latter 
absolute  madness. 

Lord  Chatham  has  been  at  the  point  of  death,  but 
is  said  to  be  better.  It  is  not  very  likely,  however, 
that  he  should  recover  enough  to  come  forth  again. 
You  tell  me  his  sister  is  at  Florence.  Her  friends,  the 
Butes,  have  a  new  calamity  in  their  family,  for  which  I 
pity  them  :  Lady  Percy  is  enceinte,  and  the  suit  for  a 
divorce  is  commenced.*     Lady  Bute  has  been  very  un- 

dcnizen  of  that  country.  On  the  23rd  of  April,  he  made  a  descent 
at  Whitehaven  ;  where  he  destroyed  the  shipping  in  the  harbour.  He 
afterwards  landed  on  the  western  coast  of  Scotland,  and  pillaged  the  house 
of  Lord  Selkirk,  near  Kirkcudbright,  of  plate,  jewels,  and  other  move- 
ables of  value.  The  Earl  was  in  London,  but  his  lady  and  family  were  in 
the  house.  It  is  said  that  Jones's  design  was  against  the  liberty,  and  not 
the  property  of  his  lordship,  and  that  he  purchased  the  booty  from  his  crew 
and  returned  it  to  the  Countess.  There  is  reason  to  believe  that  such 
was  the  fact ;  as  Dr.  Franklin,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  him  from  Passy, 
on  the  27th  of  May,  says,  "  I  received  yours  of  the  18th,  enclosing  one 
for  the  Countess  of  Selkirk,  which  I  forward  this  day  by  way  of  Hol- 
land, as  you  desire.  It  is  a  gallant  letter,  and  must  give  her  ladyship 
a  high  and  just  opinion  of  your  generosity  and  nobleness  of  mind." — Ed. 
*  Earl  Percy  first  married,  in  July  1764,  Lady  Anne  Stuart,  third 
daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Bute  ;  by  whom  he  had  no  issue,  and  from 
wliom  he  was  divorced  in  1779.  In  the  same  year,  he  married  Frances- 
Julia,  third  daughter  of  the  late  Peter  Burrell,  Es(p,  and  sister  to  Lord 
Gwydir. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  79 

fortunate  in  her  children,  though  there  never  was  a 
better  or  more  discreet  mother.  Lady  Percy  is  very 
weak  ;  and  some  time  ago,  when  Lady  Bute  received 
some  intimation  on  her  conduct,  she  said,  "  Upon  my 
word,  I  have  not  room  in  my  head  for  that  misfor- 
tune !  " 

Though  I  write  this  on  the  Saturday,  it  cannot  de- 
part till  Tuesday.  Probably,  I  shall  have  little  to  add. 
Next  month  will  be  more  prolific  of  intelligence.  Yet 
make  no  account  of  my  auguries.  I  have  lived  too 
long,  and  have  been  too  often  mistaken  in  my  calcula- 
tions, to  trust  my  own  reason  or  that  of  others.  Half 
our  conjectures  are  built  on  Ignorance,  and  her  sister 
Chance  governs  the  rest.  My  mind  is  a  little  one, 
and  apt  to  fluctuate.  I  answer  for  nothing  but  my 
principles,  and  never  committed  them  to  the  guidance 
of  events  ;  so,  though  my  letters  may  have  been  affect- 
ed by  the  weather-glass,  the  sum  total  has  been  uni- 
form. I  have  hoped  or  feared;  but  always  in  the 
same  spirit — the  liberty  and  happiness  of  England. 


Arlington  Street,  11th. 


I  must  unsay  a  material  passage  in  my  letter  : 
Lord  Chatham  died  this  morning  !*  I  am  of  opinion 
that  Lord  Temple  died  at  the  same  moment,  or  had 
better  think  he  did.  We  shall  have  opportunities  of 
seeing  whether  the  mantle  of  the  former  is  descended 
upon  anybody  !  Lord  Shelburne  will  probably  pre- 
tend that  it  was  a  legacy  to  him ;  but,  without  Lord 

*  The  Earl  of  Chatham  died,  at  his  seat  at  Hayes,  on  the   11th  of 
April.     He  had  not  quite  completed  his  seventieth  year. — En. 


80  THE   HON.  HORACE    WALPOLE 

Chatham's  fortune  too,  a  cloak  will  be  of  little  use. 
Well !  with  all  his  defects,  Lord  Chatham  will  be  a 
capital  historic  figure.*  France  dreaded  his  crutch 
to  this  very  moment  ;  but  I  doubt  she  does  not  think 
that  it  has  left  a  stick  of  the  wood ! — no  offence  to 
Mrs.  Anne,  who,  I  allow,  has  great  parts,  and  not  less 
ambition  :  but  Fortune  did  not  treat  her  as  a  twin. 

Tuesday  morning. 

Last  night  the  House  of  Commons  voted  a  funeral 
and  monument  to  Lord  Chatham  at  the  public  expense, 
and  the  members  are  to  walk  at  the  burial. 


LETTER  CCLXXXV. 

Strawberry  Hill,  May  31,  1778. 

I  am  forced  to  look  at  the  dates  I  keep  of  my  let- 
ters, to  see  what  events  I  have  or  have  not  told  you; 
for  at  this  crisis  something  happens  every  day ;  though 
nothing  very  striking  since  the  death  of  Lord  Chatham, 
with  which  I  closed  my  last.  No? — yes,  but  there  has. 
All  England,  which  had  abandoned  him,  found  out,  the 
moment  his  eyes  were  closed,  that  nothing  but  Lord 
Chatham  could  have  preserved  them.  How  lucky  for 
him  that  the  experiment  cannot  be  made !     Grief  is 

*  Mr.  Burke,  in  his  celebrated  speech  on  American  taxation,  in  al- 
luding to  Lord  Chatham,  describes  him  as  "  a  great  and  celebrated 
name  ;  a  name  that  keeps  the  name  of  this  country  respected  in  every 
part  of  the  globe  :  it  may  be  truly  called 

Clarum  ct  venerabile  nomen 
Gentibus,  et  multum  nostra  quod  proderat  urbi." — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  S| 

fond,  and  grief  is  generous.  The  Parliament  will  Imry 
him  ;  the  City  begs  the  honour  of  being  his  grave  ; 
and  the  important  question  is  not  yet  decided,  whether 
he  is  to  lie  at  Westminster  or  in  St.  Paul's  ;  on  which 
it  was  well  said,  that  it  would  be  robbing  Peter  to  pay 
Paul.*  An  annuity  of  four  thousand  pounds  is  settled 
on  the  title  of  Chatham,  and  twenty  thousand  pounds 
allotted  to  pay  his  debts.  The  Opposition  and  the  Ad- 
ministration disputed  zeal;  and  neither  care  a  straw 
about  him.  He  is  already  as  much  forgotten  as  John 
of  Gaunt. 

General  Burgoyne  has  succeeded  and  been  the 
topic,  and  for  two  days  engrossed  the  attention  of  the 
House  of  Commons  ;  and  probably  will  be  heard  of  no 
more.  He  was  even  forgotten  for  three  hours  while 
he  was  on  the  tapis,  by  a  violent  quarrel  between 
Temple  Luttrell,  a  brother  of  the  Duchess  of  Cumber- 
land, and  Lord  George  Germain  ;  f  but  the  public  has 

*  The  House  had  voted,  that  the  remains  of  Lord  Chatham  should 
be  interred  in  the  collegiate  church  of  St.  Peter's,  Westminster  ;  upon 
which,  the  Common  Council  petitioned  that  they  might  be  deposited 
in  St.  Paul's,  as  a  mark  of  their  gratitude  and  veneration. — Ed. 

t  On  General  Burgoyne's  return  to  England,  on  his  parole,  in  May, 
the  King  refused  to  see  him,  and  he  in  vain  solicited  a  court-martial. 
Under  these  circumstances,  he  threw  himself  upon  Parliament,  and  a 
motion  was  made  in  the  House  of  Commons,  on  the  26th,  for  an  inquiry 
into  the  Convention  at  Saratoga  ;  which  was  got  rid  of  by  the  previous 
question.  Mr.  Temple  Luttrell,  in  the  course  of  the  debate,  having 
made  a  personal  attack  on  Lord  George  Germain,  who  replied,  that 
"  old  as  he  was,  he  would  meet  that  fighting  gentleman  and  be  re- 
venged," the  House  interfered ;  and  Mr.  Luttrell  was  about  to  be 
taken  into  the  custody  of  the  Serjeant-at-arms,  when  the  affair  was 
got  rid  of  by  both  parties  making  an  apology  to  the  House,  and  engaging 
that  the  dispute  should  go  no  further. — Ed. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  G 


82  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

taken  affection  for  neither  them  nor  the  General ;  being- 
much  more  disposed  at  present  to  hate  than  to  love — 
except  the  dead.  It  will  be  well  if  the  ill-humour,  which 
increases,  does  not  break  out  into  overt  acts. 

I  know  not  what  to  say  of  war.  The  Toulon  squadron 
was  certainly  blown  back.  That  of  Brest  is  supposed  to 
be  destined  to  invade  some  part  of  this  country  or  Ire- 
land ;  or  rather,  it  is  probable,  will  attempt  our  fleet. 
In  my  own  opinion,  there  is  no  great  alacrity  in  France 
— I  mean,  in  the  Court  of  France — for  war  ;  and,  as  we 
have  had  time  for  great  preparations,  their  eagerness 
will  not  increase.  We  shall  suffer  as  much  as  they  can 
desire  by  the  loss  of  America,  without  their  risk,  and  in 
a  few  years  shall  be  able  to  give  them  no  umbrage  ;  es- 
pecially as  our  frenzy  is  still  so  strong,  that,  if  France 
left  us  at  quiet,  I  am  persuaded  we  should  totally  ex- 
haust ourselves  in  pursuing  the  vision  of  reconquest. 
Spain  continues  to  disclaim  hostility,  as  you  told  me.  If 
the  report  is  true  of  revolts  in  Mexico,  they  would  be  as 
good  as  a  bond  under  his  Catholic  Majesty's  hand. 

We  shall  at  least  not  doze,  as  we  are  used  to  do, 
in  summer.  The  Parliament  is  to  have  only  short  ad- 
journments ;  and  our  senators,  instead  of  retiring  to 
horse-races  (their  plough),  are  all  turned  soldiers,  and 
disciplining  militia.  Camps  everywhere,  and  the  ladies 
in  the  uniform  of  their  husbands !  In  short,  if  the  dose 
is  not  too  strong,  a  little  adversity  would  not  be  quite 
unseasonable. — A  little !  you  will  cry ;  why  what  do 
you  call  the  loss  of  America  \  Oh !  my  dear  sir, 
do  you  think  a  capital  as  enormous  as  London  has 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  83 

its  nerves  affected  by  what  happens  beyond  the  At- 
lantic ?  What  has  become  of  all  your  reading'? 
There  is  nothing  so  unnatural  as  the  feelings  of  a 
million  of  persons  who  live  together  in  one  city. 
They  have  not  one  conception  like  those  in  villages 
and  in  the  country.  They  presume  or  despond  from 
quite  different  motives.  They  have  both  more  sense 
and  less,  than  those  who  are  not  in  contact  with  a 
multitude.  Wisdom  forms  empires,  but  folly  dissolves 
them ;  and  a  great  capital,  which  dictates  to  the  rest 
of  the  community,  is  always  the  last  to  perceive  the 
decays  of  the  whole,  because  it  takes  its  own  greatness 
for  health.""* 

Lord  Holdernesse  f  is  dead  ;  not  quite  so  consider- 
able a  personage  as  he  once  expected  to  be,  though 
Nature  never  intended  him  for  anything  that  he  was. 
The  Chancellor,  another  child  of  Fortune,  quits  the 
Seals ;"[  and  they  are,  or  are  to  be,  given  to  the  At- 
torney-General, Thurlow,  whom  nobody  will  reproach 
with  want  of  abilities. 

As  the  Parliament  will  rise  on  Tuesday,  you  will  not 
expect  my  letters  so  frequently  as  of  late,  especially  if 
hostilities  do  not  commence.  In  fact,  our  newspapers 
tell  you  everything  faster  than  I  can  :    still  I  write, 

*  When  Constantinople  was  taken  by  Mahomet  II.,  the  whole  em- 
pire of  the  East  had  been  long  reduced  to  the  capital  itself. 

t  Robert  Darcy,  last  Earl  of  Holdernesse,  had  been  Ambassador,  Se- 
cretary of  State,  and  Governor  to  George  Prince  of  Wales.  [Afterwards 
George  IV.] 

%  Lord  Bathurst  resigned  his  high  office  in  the  following  month,  and 
in  November  1779  was  appointed  President  of  the  Council.  He  died 
in  1794.— Ed. 

g  2 


84  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

because  you  have  more  faith  in  my  intelligence  ;  yet 
all  its  merit  consists  in  my  not  telling  you  fables.  I 
hear  no  more  than  everybody  does,  but  I  send  you 
only  what  is  sterling  ;  or,  at  least,  give  you  reports 
for  no  more  than  they  are  worth.  I  believe  Sir  John 
Dick  is  much  more  punctual,  and  hears  more ;  but, 
till  you  displace  me,  I  shall  execute  my  office  of  being 
your  gazetteer. 

LETTER  CCLXXXVI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  June  16,  1778. 

As  I  have  just  received  yours  of  May  30th,  I  will 
begin  to  answer  it,  though  I  wrote  to  you  on  the  first 
of  this  month,  and  think  I  shall  not  have  enough  addi- 
tional to  fill  a  whole  letter  yet. 

The  public  imagined  there  would  have  been  some 
changes"""  on  the  rising  of  the  Parliament;  but  they 
began  and  ended  in  the  Law,  and  with  bestowing  the 
three  vacant  Garters.  The  Toulon  squadron  is  cer- 
tainly gone  to  America  ;  if  to  Boston,  it  is  possible 

*  The  rumour  of  changes  in  the  Administration  is  thus  adverted  to  in 
a  letter  from  James  Hare,  Esq.,  to  George  Selwyn,  of  the  27th  of  June  : 
"  A  great  part  of  the  Opposition  have  certainly  had  offers  of  coming  in, 
but  not  on  terms  that  they  like.  Charles  [Fox]  eats  and  drinks  and 
talks,  and,  though  he  never  loses  sight  of  the  Treasury,  confesses  it 
is  rather  a  distant  prospect  at  present.  I  do  think  it  does  him,  or 
ought  to  do  him,  great  credit,  that  under  all  his  distresses  he  never 
thinks  of  accepting  place  on  terms  that  are  in  the  least  degree  dis- 
reputable ;  and  I  assure  you,  upon  my  honour,  that  he  has  had  very 
flattering  offers  made  him  more  than  once  of  late,  and  has  never  for 
a  moment  hesitated  about  rejecting  them."  Selwyn  Correspondence, 
vol.  iii.  p.  292.— Ed. 


TO   Silt   HORACE   MANN.  83 

with  the  immediate  view  only  of  getting  sailors  and 
two  ships  that  are  building  there  for  France.  If  they 
can  resist  the  temptation  of  burning  Halifax,  attacking 
Lord  Howe,  or  the  West  Indies,  they  are  as  great  phi- 
losophers as  Sir  William  Howe,  who  has  twice  gazed  at 
General  Washington.  The  last  account  from  that 
quarter  had  a  little  spirit  in  it ;  they  have  burnt 
above  forty  American  sloops  and  fry  in  the  Dela- 
ware. For  these  last  days  there  have  been  rumours 
of  disposition  in  the  Americans  to  treat ;  but  they 
do  not  gain  much  credit.  Admiral  Byron  is  sailed 
to  America,  and  Admiral  Keppel  is  at  sea.  At  home 
we  are  spread  with  camps.  This  is  all  that  amounts 
to  facts,  or  to  the  eggs  of  facts.  Sir  William  Howe  is 
expected  in  a  week  or  ten  days.  As  the  Parliament  is 
not  sitting,  that  topic  may  be  suspended.  Next  we 
are  to  await  the  news  of  the  reception  of  the  Com- 
missioners ;*  perhaps,  their  return.     It  would  be  easy 

*  The  following  interesting  account  of  the  treatment  of  the  Commis- 
sioners by  Congress,  on  their  arrival  at  Philadelphia,  is  contained  in  a 
letter  from  the  Earl  of  Carlisle  to  George  Sehvyn,  dated  Wednesday, 
June  10th  :  "  We  arrived  at  this  place  after  a  voyage  of  six  weeks, 
on  Saturday  last,  and  found  everything  here  in  great  confusion  ;  the 
army  upon  the  point  of  leaving  the  town,  and  about  three  thousand 
of  the  miserable  inhabitants  embarked  on  board  our  ships  to  convey 
them  from  a  place  where  they  conceive  they  would  receive  no  mercy 
from  those  who  will  take  possession  after  us,  to  follow  the  army,  and 
starve  when  we  can  no  longer  continue  to  feed  them  Our  letters  are 
sent  to  Congress  this  morning.  We  have  thought  fit  to  bring  forward 
at  once  all  the  powers  delegated  to  us. — I  am  lodged  in  one  of  the 
best  houses  in  the  town  ;  and,  indeed,  it  is  a  very  excellent  one,  per- 
fectly well  furnished.  I  am  not,  I  own,  quite  at  my  ease  ;  for  coming 
into  a  gentleman's  house  without  asking  his  leave,  taking  possession 
of  all  the  best  apartments,  and  placing  a  couple  of  sentries  at  the 
door,  using  his  plate,   &c.  &c.  arc  very  repugnant  to   my  disposition. 


86  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

to    dilate  reflections  on  all  this  suspense  ;    but  I  do 
not  write  to  display  my  sagacity,  but  to  inform  you. 

The  meteor  of  the  reading  world  is  dead,  Voltaire/"" 
That  throne  is  quite  vacant.  We  shall  see  whether 
his  old  friend  of  Prussiaf  maintains  that  of  war,  or 
cedes  it  to  a  young  Ca3sar.|  He  seems  to  me  to  be 
aiming  at  a  more  artful  crown — that  of  policy ;  and,  in 
all  probability,  will  attain  it ;  at  least,  I  am  not  much 
prejudiced  yet  in  favour  of  his  competitor.  It  is  from 
beyond  the  Atlantic  that  the  world,  perhaps,  will  see  a 
genius  revive.  They  seem  to  set  out  with  a  politeness 
Avith  which  few  empires  have  commenced.  We  have 
not  shown  ourselves  quite  so  civilized.  We  hectored 
and  called  names,  talked  fire  and  sword,  but  have 
made  more  use  of  the  first  than  of  the  second.  Our 
Generals  beg  to  be  tried,  and  our  Ministers  not  to 
be   tried.      This   does   not   sound   well   when   trans- 

I  make  him  and  his  wife  a  visit  every  day  ;  talk  politics  with  them  ; 
and  we  are  the  hest  friends  in  the  world.  They  are  very  agreeable, 
sensible  people,  and  you  never  would  he  out  of  their  company. — I  have 
this  morning,  at  five  o'clock,  been  taking  a  ride  into  the  country,  about 
ten  miles  ;  grieved  am  I  to  say,  eight  miles  beyond  our  possessions. 
Our  lines  extend  only  two,  and  the  provincial  army  is  posted  very 
strongly  about  six  and  twenty  miles  distant.  We  have  had  no  answer 
from  the  Congress.  They  may  send  us  one  to  New  York  ;  for  which 
place  we  must  instantly  embark.  Things  go  ill,  and  will  not  go 
better.  We  have  done  our  duty  ;  so  we  ought  not  to  be  involved 
with  those  who  have  lost  this  country."  Selwyn  Correspondence,  vol.  iii. 
p.  280.— Ed. 

*  In  consequence  of  the  refusal  of  the  Archbishop  of  Paris  to  allow 
Voltaire  Christian  sepulture,  his  body,  after  being  embalmed,  was  in- 
terred in  the  Benedictine  Abbey  of  Scelliercs,  in  the  diocese  of  Troyes  ; 
whence  it  was  brought  in  1791,  by  a  decree  of  the  National  Assembly, 
and  interred  at  St.  Genevieve. — Ed. 

f  Frederick  III.  \  The  Emperor  Joseph  II. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  87 

lated  into  other  languages.  For  my  part,  who  hold 
that  Chance  has  much  more  to  do  in  the  affairs  of 
the  world  than  Wisdom,  I  wait  to  see  what  the  first 
will  ordain.  This  belief  is  a  sovereign  preservative 
against  despondency.  There  have  been  very  gloomy 
moments  in  my  life  ;  but  experience  has  shown  me, 
either  that  events  do  not  correspond  to  appearances, 
or  that  I  have  very  little  shrewdness ;  and,  therefore, 
I  can  resign  the  honour  of  my  penetration  with  satis- 
faction, when  my  foresight  augurs  ill.  If  Lord  Chat- 
ham knew  that  he  should  conquer  the  world,  or  Br. 
Franklin  that  lie  should  reduce  us  lower  than  Lord 
Chatham  found  us,  I  should  respect  their  penetration 
indeed !  But,  without  detracting  from  their  spirit  or 
abilities,  I  do  not  believe  the  first  expected  half  the 
success  he  met  with,  or  the  latter  half  the  incapa- 
city that  has  been  exerted  against,  and,  consequently, 
for  him. 


LETTER  CCLXXXVII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  July  7,  1778. 

You  tell  me  in  yours  of  the  23rd  of  last  month, 
which  I  received  to-day,  that  my  letters  are  neces- 
sary to  your  tranquillity.  That  is  sufficient  to  make 
me  write,  though  I  have  nothing  very  positive  to  tell 
you.  I  did  not  mention  Admiral  Keppel's  skirmish 
with  and  capture  of  two  frigates  of  the  Brest  squadron  ;* 

*  La    Licorne  and  La  Belle  Poule.     From   papers  taken  on  board 
these   frigates,  Admiral    Keppel   found   to   his   astonishment,   that    the 


88  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

not  because  I  thought  it  trifling,  but  concluding  it 
would  produce  immediate  declaration  of  war ;  and,  for 
the  fact  itself,  I  knew  both  our  papers  and  the  French 
would  anticipate  me.  Indeed,  Sir  John  Dick  has 
talked  to  me  so  much  of  his  frequency  and  punc- 
tuality with  you,  that  I  might  have  concluded  he 
would  not  neglect  so  public  an  event ;  not  that  I 
trust  to  anybody  else  for  sending  you  intelligence. 

No  Declaration  has  followed  on  either  side.  I,  who 
know  nothing  but  what  everybody  knows,  am  disposed 
to  hope  that  both  nations  are  grown  rational  ;  that  is, 
humane  enough  to  dislike  carnage.  Both  Kings  are 
pacific  by  nature,  and  the  voice  of  Europe  now  prefers 
legislators  to  heroes,  which  is  but  a  name  for  destroyers 
of  their  species. 

It  is  true,  we  are  threatened  with  invasion.  You  ask 
me  why  I  seem  to  apprehend  less  than  formerly  %  For 
many  reasons.  In  the  first  place,  I  am  above  thirty 
years  older.  Can  one  fear  anything  in  the  dregs  of 
life  as  at  the  beginning  %  Experience,  too,  has  taught 
me  that  nothing  happens  in  proportion  to  our  concep- 
tions. I  have  learnt,  too,  exceedingly  to  undervalue 
human  policy.  Chance  and  folly  counteract  most  of  its 
wisdom.  From  the  Memoires  de  Noailles  I  have  learnt, 
that,  between  the  years  1 740  and  1 750,  when  I, — ay,  and 
my  Lord  Chesterfield  too, — had  such  gloomy  thoughts, 
France  was  trembling  with  dread  of  us.     These  are  ge- 

French  had  thirty-two  sail  of  the  line,  besides  ten  or  twelve  frigates, 
in  Brest  Roads.  He  also  found  written  orders  "not  to  molest  that 
useful  navigator,  Captain  Cook,  on  any  account  whatever."— Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  89 

neral  reasons.  My  particular  ones  are,  that,  if  France 
meditated  a  considerable  blow,  she  has  neglected  her 
opportunity,  Last  year,  we  had  neither  army  nor  a 
manned  lleet  at  home.  Now,  we  have  a  larger  and  bet- 
ter army  than  ever  we  had  in  the  island,  and  a  strong 
fleet.  Within  these  three  days,  our  West-India  and 
Mediterranean  fleets,  for  which  we  have  been  in  great 
pain,  are  arrived,  ancf  bring  not  only  above  two  mil- 
lions, but  such  a  host  of  sailors  as  will  supply  the  de- 
ficiencies in  our  unequipped  men-of-war.  The  country 
is  covered  with  camps  ;  General  Conway,  who  has  been 
to  one  of  them,  speaks  with  astonishment  of  the  fineness 
of  the  men,  of  the  regiments,  of  their  discipline  and 
manoeuvring.  In  short,  the  French  Court  has  taught 
all  our  young  nobility  to  be  soldiers.  The  Duke  of 
Grafton,  who  was  the  most  indolent  of  ministers,  is  the 
most  indefatigable  of  officers.  For  my  part,  I  am  almost 
afraid  that  there  will  be  a  larger  military  spirit  amongst 
our  men  of  quality  than  is  wholesome  for  our  constitu- 
tion •*  France  will  have  done  us  hurt  enough,  if  she  has 
turned  us  into  generals  instead  of  senators. 

I  can  conceive  another  reason  why  France  should  not 
choose  to  venture  an  invasion.  It  is  certain  that  at 
least  five  American  provinces  wish  for  peace  with  us. 
Nor  can  I  think  that  thirteen  English  provinces  would 
be  pleased  at  seeing  England  invaded.  Any  consider- 
able blow  received  by  us,  would  turn  their  new  allies 

*  In  reference  to  the  prevalence  of  this  military  spirit  amongst  the 
higher  orders,  Gibhon  wrote  to  Mr.  Holroytl,  "  Their  chief  conversation 
at  Almack's  is  about  tents,  drill-serjeants,  subdivisions,  firings,  &c,  and 
I  am  revered  as  a  veteran." — Ed. 


90  THE   HOxN.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

into  haughty  protectors.  Should  we  accept  a  bad 
peace,  America  would  find  her  treaty  with  them  a 
very  bad  one :  in  short,  I  have  treated  you  with  spe- 
culations instead  of  facts.  I  know  but  one  of  the 
latter  sort.  The  King's  army  has  evacuated  Phila- 
delphia, from  having  eaten  up  the  country,  and  has 
returned  to  New  York."""  Thus  it  is  more  compact, 
and  has  less  to  defend. 

General  Howe  is  returned,  richer  in  money  than 
laurels.  I  do  not  know,  indeed,  that  his  wealth  is 
great. 

Fanaticism  in  a  nation  is  no  novelty  ;  but  you  must 
know,  that,  though  the  effects  were  so  solid,  the  late  ap- 
pearance of  enthusiasm  about  Lord  Chatham  was  no- 
thing but  a  general  affectation  of  enthusiasm.  It  was  a 
contention  of  hypocrisy  between  the  Opposition  and 
the  Court,  which  did  not  last  even  to  his  burial.f  Not 
three  of  the  Court  attended  it,  and  not  a  dozen  of  the 
Minority  of  any  note.  He  himself  said,  between  his 
fall  in  the  House  of  Lords  and  his  death,  that,  when  he 
came  to  himself,  not  one  of  his  old  acquaintance  of  the 
Court  but  Lord  Despencer  so  much  as  asked  him  how 
he  did.  Do  you  imagine  people  are  struck  with  the 
death  of  a  man,  who  were  not  struck  with  the  sudden 
appearance  of  his  death  ?     We  do  not  counterfeit  so 

*  Philadelphia  was  evacuated  by  the  British  army  on  the  18th  of 
June  ;  which  passed  the  Delaware  on  the  same  day,  under  dispositions 
made  for  the  purpose  by  the  Admiral,  Lord  Howe. — Ed. 

t  "  Lord  Chatham's  funeral,"  says  Gibbon,  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Hol- 
royd,  "  was  meanly  attended,  and  Government  ingeniously  contrived  to 
secure  the  double  odium  of  suffering  the  thing  to  be  done,  and  of  doing 
it  with  an  ill  grace." — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  01 

easily  on  a  surprise,  as  coolly ;  and,  when  we  are  cool 
on  surprise,  we  do  not  grow  agitated  on  reflection. 

The  last  account  I  heard  from  Germany  was  hostile. 
Four  days  ago  both  the  Imperial  and  Prussian  Ministers 
expected  news  of  a  battle.  0,  ye  fathers  of  your  people, 
do  you  thus  dispose  of  your  children  \  How  many 
thousand  lives  does  a  King  save,  who  signs  a  peace  !  It 
was  said  in  jest  of  our  Charles  II.,  that  he  was  the  real 
father  of  his  people,  so  many  of  them  did  he  beget  him- 
self. But  tell  me,  ye  divines,  which  is  the  most  vir- 
tuous man,  he  who  begets  twenty  bastards,  or  he  who 
sacrifices  an  hundred  thousand  lives  1  What  a  contra- 
diction is  human  nature  !  The  Romans  rewarded  the 
man  who  got  three  children,  and  laid  waste  the  world. 
When  will  the  world  know,  that  peace  and  propagation 
are  the  two  most  delightful  things  in  it  ?  As  his  Ma- 
jesty of  France  *  has  found  out  the  latter,  I  hope  he 
will  not  forget  the  former. 

*  The  unfortunate  Marie-Antoinette  was  then  enceinte  for  the  first 
time.  On  the  19th  of  December  she  was  delivered  of  a  Princess 
named  Marie-Therese-Charlotte.  The  Rev.  Dr.  Warner,  then  at  Paris, 
thus  wrote  on  the  20th,  to  George  Selwyn,  "  Yesterday  the  beauteous 
Majesty  of  France  underwent  the  pangs  of  child-birth.  The  agony  of 
her  regret  that  it  is  not  a  dauphin  has  thrown  her  into  such  strong  con- 
vulsions, that  her  life  is  thought  to  be  in  danger.  She  had  a  fine  time, 
as  the  goodies  say,  and  it  is  a  fine  child.  I  hope  the  fine  woman  will 
do  well,  and  have  a  dauphin  another  time.  There  were  bonfires  and 
sky-rockets  ;  but  the  whole  thing  was  wretched  and  poor.  The  public 
offices,  such  as  the  Hotel  des  Formes,  the  Post-office,  and  some  of  the  Fi- 
nanciers, or,  as  Boileau  calls  them,  '  Commis  engraisses  des  malheurs  de 
la  France,'  gave  some  of  their  tallow  :  but  scarce  a  candle,  even  of  the 
diminutive  size  that  is  burnt  to  the  lousiest  saint  in  the  calendar,  was  to 
be  seen  amongst  the  lean  and  little  folks."  Selwyn  Correspondence, 
vol.  iii.  p.  372. — Ed. 


92  THE   IION.  HORACE   WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCLXXXVII1. 

Arlington  Street,  Aug.  4,  1778. 

For  these  three  weeks  I  have  been  constantly 
waiting  for  news  from  sea;  for  to  tell  you  that  nothing 
had  happened,  was  telling  you  nothing.  We  are  in  the 
oddest  situation  that  can  be  ;  at  war,  in  fact,  but  ma- 
naged like  a  controversy  in  divinity  :  we  and  France 
write  against  each  other,  and  do  each  other  all  the  hurt 
we  can,  but  do  not  own  we  are  enemies.  The  commu- 
nication is  open,  the  packet-boats  pass  as  usual,  and 
French  and  English  are  allowed  to  go  to  Paris  and  to 
come  to  London,  as  if  to  compare  notes  on  all  that 
happens.  I  am  not  sorry  that  this  Christian  plausi- 
bility is  preserved  ;  it  may  facilitate  peace  without  the 
tediousness  of  a  formal  treaty.  The  two  countries  have 
nothing  to  do  but  to  declare  hostilities  are  at  an  end. 

On  Saturday  last  we  thought  we  had  gained  a  double 
festival  for  the  1st  of  August.  Admiral  Keppel's  cap- 
tain arrived,  and  a  rumour  spread  that  he  had  taken  or 
destroyed  seventeen  of  the  Brest  fleet.'""  It  was  not  for 
want  of  will  or  endeavours  if  he  has  not.     He  had 

*  The  Due  de  Chartres,  afterwards  the  infamous  Egalite',  who  was  on 
hoard  one  of  the  French  ships,  took  occasion  to  acquaint  Sir  George 
Rodney,  that  he  was  to  have  a  command  in  the  fleet  which  was  to 
he  opposed  to  that  under  the  command  of  Admiral  Keppcl,  and  with 
an  insulting  air  asked  him,  what  he  thought  would  he  the  consequence  of 
their  meeting  1  "  That  my  countryman  will  carry  your  Royal  Highness 
home  with  him  to  learn  English"  was  the  spirited  reply.  During  the  ac- 
tion of  the  27th  of  July,  the  Duke  retired  into  the  hold  of  the  ship,  and 
refused  to  come  on  deck  until  the  engagement  was  over.  See  Keppel's 
Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  36.— Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  93 

placed  himself  between  that  squadron  and  port,  and 
tried  to  force  them  to  battle;  which  they  obstinately 
declined,  till  he  came  so  near  that  they  fired  on  him. 
He  desired  no  more,  and  the  fight  began  smartly  ;  but, 
the  wind  favouring  the  French,  they  kept  sailing  away, 
but  pouring  all  their  broadsides  on  his  masts  and 
rigging,  which  they  damaged  a  good  deal.  This  flying 
fight  lasted  two  hours,  and  our  admiral  promised  him- 
self a  complete  battle  the  next  day :  but,  as  the  French 
meant  mischief  and  not  glory,  at  day-break  they  were 
vanished — in  short,  got  into  port;  and  Keppel  is  re- 
turned to  Plymouth,  heartily  chagrined  that  his  enemies 
are  so  little  ashamed  of  running  away.""" 

There  is  as  little  prospect  of  laurels  from  Byron's 
squadron.  Both  his  fleet  and  D'Estaing's  have  suffered 
by  a  great  storm.  Nor  are  we  likely  to  have  more  olives 
than  laurels.  The  Congress  has  treated  our  Commis- 
sioners  with  sovereign  contempt  ;f  and  the   Commis- 

*  Admiral  Keppel,  finding  it  in  vain  to  attempt  a  general  or  a  partial 
chase,  determined  to  return  to  England  to  repair  the  heavy  damages  his 
fleet  had  sustained.  He  arrived  at  Plymouth  on  the  31st  of  July. 
Amongst  the  numerous  letters  of  congratulation  received  by  the  Admiral 
on  this  occasion,  was  one  from  Mr.  Burke :  "  You  have,"  he  says,  "  saved 
us  twice  in  one  summer  ;  once  by  retreating,  and  once  by  fighting.  The 
disciplined  mob  of  court-runners  in  the  City  thought  proper,  for  some 
time,  to  censure  the  conduct  to  which  we  owe  it ;  but  the  appearance  of 
the  French  fleet  off  Ushant  has  shown  your  wisdom  and  their  folly. 
Every  honest  man,  every  man  of  judgment,  congratulates  you  and  him- 
self, with  a  sedate  joy,  on  this  great  and  eminent  advantage.  The 
designs  which  this  fleet  of  the  enemy  was  meant  to  second  are  de- 
feated, and  the  honour  of  our  flag  completely  secured."  Life  of  Keppel, 
vol.  ii.  p.  57. — Ed. 

t  The  condition  of  the  Commissioners  on  the  22nd  of  July  is  thus 
feelingly  depicted  by  Lord  Carlisle,  in  a  letter  to  George  Selwyn : 
"  When    you    see  before   you  the  list  of  our   misfortunes,    I    think   I 


94  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

sioners  themselves  have  quarrelled,  and  are  coming 
home.  Thus  we  have  begged  peace  of  those  we  bul- 
lied, and  only  been  laughed  at.  We  seem  to  have 
wearied  Fortune  in  the  last  war. 

Caesar  seems  to  have  made  as  bad  a  figure  as  we. 
After  usurping  Bavaria,  he  is  forced  to  beg  peace  too. 
They  say  he  is  convinced  of  having  been  in  the  wrong, 
by  a  renunciation  that  has  been  found  of  the  Emperor 
Albert.  It  is  the  first  time  a  hero  at  the  head  of  two 
hundred  and  twenty  thousand  men  was  ever  convinced 
by  an  old  parchment !  His  Imperial  reason  did  not  deign 
to  listen  to  law  and  equity  in  the  dismemberment  of 
Poland  ;  nor  would  he  now,  I  ween,  if  Lord  Chief  Jus- 
tice Frederic  had  not  enclosed  him  with  more  numerous 
armies.  We  did  not  pay  much  regard  to  the  charters 
of  America,  till  France  helped  the  latter  to  carry  on  the 
suit. 

I  am  very  anxious  for  the  confirmation  of  this  pacifi- 
cation in  Germany ;  for  the  Duke  of  Gloucester  was  just 
setting  out  to  make  the  campaign  under  the  King  of 

shall  have  your  compassion.  1.  We  are  blocked  up  by  a  French 
fleet.  2.  We  are  kept  in  prison,  as  we  dare  not  ride  beyond  our 
posts  towards  the  country.  3.  If  any  attack  is  made,  either  by  sea 
or  land,  we  wish  more  than  we  are  likely  to  gain.  4.  If  certain  events, 
which  are  not  improbable,  should  take  place,  we  shall  be  inevitably 
starved.  5.  We  have  tried  the  Congress,  and  you  will  think  with 
me  that,  in  our  present  circumstances,  they  will  not  depart  from  their 
resolution  in  refusing  our  offers.  6.  Our  packet  is  taken,  which  would 
perhaps  have  relieved  me  from  a  state  of  suspense,  that  I  have  not 
public  virtue  enough  not  to  think  more  bitter  than  many  of  those  mis- 
fortunes which  my  country  must  feel  as  well  as  myself.  I  own  fairly 
we  have  nothing  to  do  here ;  but  we  must  not  quit  the  business  till  that 
point  is  so  clear  as  not  to  admit  of  two  opinions."  Selwyn  Corre- 
spondence, vol.  iii.  p.  301. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  95 

Prussia.  It  was  worthy  of  his  spirit,  and  nobody  dared 
to  remonstrate  against  it ;  and  yet  the  physicians 
think  he  could  not  support  an  autumnal  campaign. 
The  Duchess  herself  has  only  shed  floods  of  tears,  but 
not  murmured.  The  behaviour  of  both  does  them  in- 
finite honour. 

Your  friends,  the  Mackenzie^,*  are  arrived,  and  Mrs. 
Anne  Pitt  is  expected  daily.  Mrs.  Foote's  friend,  old 
Lady  Westmorland,!  is  dead,  and  the  ancient  beauty, 
Lady  Fanny  Shirley  ;  \  she  had  lost  her  head  some 
time,  and  her  senses  before,  for  she  has  made  Lady 
Huntingdon  §  her  heir,  having  turned  Methodist  when 
she  was  no  longer  admired. 

Our  summer  is  as  Italian  as  yours  :  I  do  not  remem- 
ber such  an  one.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCLXXXIX. 

Arlington  Street,  Aug.  25,  1778. 

You  tell  me,  my  dear  sir,  that  you  depend  so  en- 
tirely on  me  for  intelligence,  at  least  for  the  confirma- 
tion of  public  events,  that  I  must  not  let  yesterday's 
Gazette  go  away  to-night  without  writing  you  a  line. 

*  James  Stuart  Mackenzie,  only  brother  of  Lord  Bute,  married  Lady 
Elizabeth  Campbell,  third  daughter  of  John,  Duke  of  Argyll. 

T  Daughter  of  a  son  of  the  first  Duke  of  Devonshire. 

J  Formerly  a  great  beauty,  admired  and  celebrated  by  Lord  Chester- 
field, who  wrote  on  her  the  well-known  song,  "  When  Fanny,  blooming 
fair." 

§  Lady  Selina  Shirley,  niece  of  Lady  Fanny,  and  patroness  of  the 
Methodists. 


96  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Military  narratives  are  apt  to  be  a  little  oracular,  and 
ours  of  late  have  wanted  some  additional  obscurity. 
You  will  collect  from  yesterday's,  that  General  Clin- 
ton's army  did  get  to  New  York,  though  with  some 
difficulty,  which,  ministerially,  you  are  to  take  for  a 
victory  ;  and,  wherever  any  darkness  hangs  over  it, 
you  must  clear  it  up  on  our  side.  I  divine  that  Wash- 
ington was  ill  served,  for  he  has  brought  two  of  his 
Generals  to  a  court-martial ;  and  the  excessive  heats 
seem  to  have  fought  against  both  armies.  This  is  the 
quintessence  of  what  I  know  of  the  matter;  and, 
upon  the  whole,  the  Royal  army  has  gained  an  escape 
— I  doubt,  not  much  to  their  comfort  ;  for  they  find 
no  plenty  at  New  York,  and  Monsieur  D'Estaing  blocks 
up  the  fleet  there  :  so,  probably,  accounts  will  not 
mend. 

Our  fleet  at  home  has  not  sailed  again.  There  are 
rumours  of  dissensions  between  Admiral  Keppel  and 
Sir  Hugh  Palliser,  and  even  of  a  duel  between  them  ; 
which,  however,  I  have  heard  from  no  good  authority  : 
in  short,  I  have  nothing  agreeable  to  tell  you,  and  I 
do  not  love  to  send  anything  that  is  not  to  the  glory  of 
my  country  'cross  the  Channel. 

The  German  peace  seems  to  halt.  I  should  think 
it,  however,  still  in  agitation ;  as  no  considerable  action 
has  happened.  The  Duke  of  Gloucester  has  yet  re- 
ceived no  answer  from  the  Prussian,  but  expects  it 
this  week.  He  is  determined  to  go  if  he  is  accepted — 
to  every  peril  indeed,  for  his  strength  is  not  equal  to  it. 

We  have  had  the  most  marvellous  summer  that  I 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  97 

ever  remember  in  all  my  days.  It  is  still  sultry ;  and 
I  am  suffering,  though  1  write  between  every  open  door 
and  window  in  a  back-room  where  the  sun  never  enters. 
The  harvest  is  prodigious  ;  and  we  might  have  wine 
and  oil,  had  we  made  preparations  for  them. 

The  Duke  of  Ancaster  is  dead,  and  the  Mastership 
of  the  Horse  to  be  disposed  of.'"  This  would  have  been 
an  object  in  some  summers ;  but  we  do  not  want  topics 
of  conversation  at  present.  I  used  to  make  excuses 
for  the  shortness  of  my  letters  at  this  season.  That  is 
not  the  case  at  present.  I  have  given  you  the  reason 
at  the  top  of  this  page.f     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCXC. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Sept.  17,  1778. 

Your  last  is  of  August  22nd,  and  mine  of  the 
25th.  Since  then  I  could  have  told  you  nothing  but 
expectations ;  nor  are  they  realized  yet.  Admiral 
Keppel  has  been  hunting  for  the  Brest  fleet,  which  has 
either  gone  southward,  or  is  dodging  in  and  out  of 
their  ports  :  at  least  he  had  not  found  it.  But  if  the 
god  of  sea-fights  does  not  smile,  the  god  of  merchantmen 
has  wrought  miracles  :  all  our  fleets  are  come  in  from 
Portugal,  the  West  Indies,  and  every  other  mart :  he 
has  been  as  cunning  as  if  he  were  the  demon  of  smug- 
glers. 

*  The  situation  was  conferred  on  the  Duke  of  Northumberland. — Ed. 
t  Vide  end  of  the  second  paragraph. 

VOL.  III. NEAV  SERIES.  II 


98  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

Letters  are  arrived,  too,  from  New  York.  D'Estaing 
had  quitted  that  blockade,  and  was  thought  to  be  sailed 
to  attack  Rhode  Island.  Lord  Howe  was  gone  after 
him  with  an  inferior  force,  but,  they  say,  hoping  to  be 
joined  by  six  of  Byron's  squadron  ;  which  six  are  come 
to  light  again,  and  were  not  far  off.  Of  that  Admiral 
not  a  word.     This  is  the  quintessence  of  all  I  know. 

In  my  family  we  are  very  happy  that  the  King  of 
Prussia  has  sent  the  Duke  a  most  handsome  excuse, 
being  afraid  of  exposing  a  constitution  so  delicate  as 
his  Royal  Highness's  to  the  fatigues  of  a  latter  cam- 
paign ;  so,  that  anxiety  is  at  an  end  !  Prince  Henry's 
success  has  not  availed  much.  Having  devoured  the 
country,  the  Prussians  have  been  forced  to  step  back. 
The  people  that  have  been  devoured  count  for  nothing. 

Your  Duchess  of  Kingston  is  a  paltry  mountebank. 
It  is  too  ridiculous  to  have  airs  after  conviction.  Mrs. 
Anne  Pitt,  I  hear,  is  arrived.  Her  nephew,  Mr.  Thomas 
Pitt,  I  believe,  you  will  see  ere  long.  A  weakness  is 
fallen  on  his  knees,  and  made  him  a  cripple.  He  is,  I 
think,  set  out  for  Italy,  like  iEneas,  with  his  Creusa,  her 
father  of  eighty -seven,  and  two  sucking  babes."'  Let 
me  give  you  a  caution  :  he  and  I  have  never  been  on 
more  than  civil  terms  since  Mr.  Grenville's  reign.  He 
now  swears  by  the  ghost  of  his  uncle  Chatham,  whom 
in  those  days  he  detested. 

*  Mr.  Thomas  Pitt,  in  1783  created  Lord  Camelford,  married,  in 
1771,  the  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Pinkney  Wilkinson,  Esq.,  of  Burnham 
in  Norfolk  ;  by  whom  he  had  one  son,  Thomas,  his  successor,  who  was 
killed  in  a  duel  in  1<S04,  and  one  daughter,  who,  in  1792,  Mas  married  to 
William,  Lord  Grcnville. — En. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  .<)<) 

I  saw  Mr.  Mackenzie  last  week,  who  spoke  of  you 
with  the  heartiest  kindness  ;  and  so  does  Lady  Betty.* 
Lady  Chesterfield  is  dead,  at  above  fourscore.  She 
was  not  a  girl  when  she  came  over  with  George  I. 

What  can  I  tell  you  more  1  My  politics,  beyond  facts, 
would  be  but  the  conjectures  of  a  private  dreamer 
Yet  I  am  ashamed  to  send  such  a  sippet  of  a  letter ; 
especially  when  you  are  impatient  for  mine,  and 
reckon  on  and  depend  upon  them.  But  you  would 
not  trust  to  them,  if  I  were  not  cautious  not  to  send 
you  anything  but  truths ;  no  easy  task,  if  I  were  not 
brief.  Ten  thousand  lies  are  propagated  every  week, 
not  only  by  both  sides,  but  by  stock-jobbers  ;  for  those 
grave  folks,  monied  citizens,  contribute  exceedingly  to 
embroil  and  confound  history,  which  was  not  very  au- 
thentic before  they  were  spawned.  Newspapers,  that 
ought  to  facilitate  intelligence,  are  the  vehicles  of  lies, 
and  blunders,  and  scandal ;  and  Truth,  which  formerly 
could  trudge  ten  miles  on  foot,  cannot  now  get  along 
the  road  for  the  crowds  of  counterfeits.  An  historian, 
who  shall  consult  the  gazettes  of  the  times,  will  write 
as  fabulous  a  romance  as  Gargantua. 

You  will  wish  to  know  something  of  Spain's  inten- 
tions. I  am  sure  I  cannot  satisfy  you.  She  has  a 
fleet,  and  she  arms  ;  but  her  Ambassador  f  is  here — if 
to  blind  us,  his  purpose  is  not  quite  answered,  for 
many  have  no  faith  in  him.  On  the  other  hand, 
though  at  war  with  France,  neither  country  takes  no- 

*  Lady  Elizabeth  Campbell,  third  daughter  of  John  Duke  of  Argyll, 
t  Count  Almodovar. 

h  2 


100  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

tice  of  it.     The  English  pass  through  Calais  as  quietly 
as  just  after  a  peace. 

The  Spanish  Ambassador,  whose  size  makes  him 
look  as  if  he  represented  the  King  of  Lilliput,  diverts 
the  town  with  his  gallantries,  which  are  not  at  all  in 
the  style  of  the  novels  of  his  country,  nor  consist  in 
mere  serenades.  He  made  a  visit  lately  to  a  house  of 
ill  odour,  and,  though  they  say  his  wife  is  jealous,  he 
left  his  two  footmen  at  the  door  with  flambeaux.  His 
generosity,  too,  was  not  of  a  piece  with  the  masters  of 
Peru.  He  gave  the  nymph  but  half-a-guinea,  and  a 
shilling  to  the  maid.  As  a  pigmy  does  not  pay  with 
his  person,  the  damsels  made  much  noise  against  the 
receipt  of  silver  pennies,  which  might  be  in  proportion 
to  his  stature,  but  not  to  his  character.  To  stifle  their 
clamours,  he  declared  he  was  the  Venetian  Resident ; 
and  now  he  has  a  quarrel  on  his  hands  with  that  Minis- 
ter for  the  double  scandal. 


LETTER  CCXCI. 


Strawberry  Hill,  Oct.  8,  1778. 

As  you  are  so  earnest  for  news,  I  am  concerned 
when  I  have  not  a  paragraph  to  send  you.  It  looks 
as  if  distance  augmented  your  apprehensions ;  for,  I 
assure  you,  at  home  we  have  lost  almost  all  curiosity. 
Though  the  two  fleets  have  been  so  long  at  sea,  and 
though,  before  their  last  sortie,  one  heard  nothing  but 
What  news  of  the  fleets  ?    of  late    there  has   been 


TO  SIR  HORACE   MANN.  101 

scarcely  any  inquiry; — and  so,  the  French  one  is  re- 
turned jto  Brest,  and  ours  is  coming  home.'""  Admiral 
Keppel  is  very  unlucky  in  having  missed  them,  for  they 
had  not  above  twenty-five  ships.  Letters  from  Paris 
say  that  their  camps,  too,  are  to  break  up  at  the  end 
of  this  month  :  but  we  do  not  intend  to  be  the  dupes 
of  that  finesse,  if  it  is  one,  but  shall  remain  on  our 
guard.  One  must  hope  that  winter  will  produce  some 
negotiation ;  and  that,  peace.  Indeed,  as  war  is  not 
declared,  I  conclude  there  is  always  some  treating  on 
the  anvil  ;  and,  should  it  end  well,  at  least  this  age 
will  have  made  a  step  towards  humanity  in  omitting 
the  ceremonial  of  proclamation,  which  seems  to  make 
it  easier  to  cease  being  at  war.  But  I  am  rather 
making  out  a  proxy  for  a  letter  than  sending  you 
news.  But,  you  see,  even  armies  of  hundred  thousands 
in  Germany  can  execute  as  little  as  we  ;  and  you  must 
remember  what  the  grand  Conde,  or  the  great  Prince 
of  Orange, — I  forget  which, — said,  that  unmarried  girls 
imagine  husbands  are  always  on  duty,  unmilitary 
men  that  soldiers  are  always  fighting.  One  of  the 
Duke  of  Marlborough's  generals  dining  with  the  Lord 
Mayor,  an  alderman  who  sat  next  to  him  said,  "  Sir, 
yours  must  be  a  very  laborious  profession." — "  No," 
replied  the  general,  "  we  fight  about  four  hours  in  the 
morning,  and  two  or  three  after  dinner,  and  then  we 
have  all  the  rest  of  the  day  to  ourselves." 

*  After  a  fruitless  search  of  two  months  for  the  enemy,  Admiral 
Keppel  returned  with  his  fleet,  on  the  26th  of  October,  to  Portsmouth.— 
Ed. 


102  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

The  King  has  been  visiting  camps, — and  so  has  Sir 
William  Howe,  who,  one  should  think,  had  had  enough 
of  them  ;  and  who,  one  should  think  too,  had  not 
achieved  such  exploits  as  should  make  him  fond  of 
parading  himself  about,  or  expect  many  hosannahs.  To 
have  taken  one  town,  and  retreated  from  two,  is  not 
very  glorious  in  military  arithmetic ;  and  to  have 
marched  twice  to  Washington,  and  returned  without 
attacking  him,  is  no  addition  to  the  sum  total. 

Did  I  tell  you  that  Mrs.  Anne  Pitt  is  returned,  and 
acts  great  grief  for  her  brother  1  I  suppose  she  was 
the  dupe  of  the  farce  acted  by  the  two  Houses  and 
the  Court,  and  had  not  heard  that  none  of  them  car- 
ried on  the  pantomime  even  to  his  burial.  Her 
nephew  *  gave  a  little  into  that  mummery  even  to 
me  ;  forgetting  how  much  I  must  remember  of  his 
aversion  to  his  uncle.  Lord  Chatham  was  a  meteor, 
and  a  glorious  one  ;  people  discovered  that  he  was  not 
a  genuine  luminary,  and  yet  everybody  in  mimickry 
has  been  an  ignis  fatuus  about  him.  Why  not  allow 
his  magnificent  enterprises  and  good-fortune,  and  con- 
fess his  defects  ;  instead  of  being  bombast  in  his 
praises,  and  at  the  same  time  discover  that  the  ampli- 
fication is  insincere  1  A  Minister  who  inspires  great 
actions  must  be  a  great  Minister  ;  and  Lord  Chatham 
will  always  appear  so, — by  comparison  with  his  pre- 
decessors and  successors.  He  retrieved  our  affairs 
when  ruined  by  a  most  incapable  Administration  ;  and 
we  are  fallen  into  a  worse  state  since  he  was  removed. 

*  Mr.  Thomas  Pitt. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  103 

Therefore,  1  doubt,  posterity  will  allow  more  to  his 
merit,  than  it  is  the  present  fashion  to  accord  to  it. 
Our  historians  have  of  late  been  fond  of  decrying 
Queen  Elizabeth,  in  order  if  possible  to  raise  the 
Stuarts :  but  great  actions  surmount  foibles  ;  and 
folly  and  guilt  would  always  remain  folly  and  guilt, 
though  there  had  never  been  a  great  man  or  woman 
in  the  world.  Our  modern  tragedies,  hundreds  of 
them,  do  not  contain  a  good  line  ;  nor  are  they  a  jot 
the  better,  because  Shakspeare,  who  was  superior  to 
all  mankind,  wrote  some  whole  plays  that  are  as  bad 
as  any  of  our  present  writers. 

I  shall  be  very  glad  to  see  your  nephew,  and  talk 
of  you  with  him  ;  which  will  be  more  satisfactory  than 
questioning  accidental  travellers. 


LETTER  CCXCII. 

Arlington  Street,  Oct.  30,  1778. 

Pray  allow  that  I  am  a  miracle  of  attention, 
when  I  have  the  courage  to  begin  a  letter  that  is,  I 
know,  to  contain  little  or  nothing,  and  which  is  the 
quintessence  of  two  very  long  gazettes.  We  had  been 
amused  with  a  notion  that  Lord  Howe  was  blocking 
up  M.  D'Estaing  in  Boston,  and  would  certainly  take 
him  and  his  whole  fleet.  Lest  we  should  build  too 
much  on  that  idea,  Lord  Howe  himself  arrived  on 
Monday,  having  taken  nothing  but  his  leave.  Being 
modest,  he  owns  that  he  had  no   mind  to  encounter 


104  the  iion.  iiorace  walpole 

the  French  squadron.  A  violent  storm  solved  his  diffi- 
culties, and  dispersed  both  fleets.  The  Americans, 
deprived  of  their  allies,  quitted  Rhode  Island  ;  and 
then  Sir  Harry  Clinton  raised  a  contribution  of  ten 
thousand  sheep  and  some  oxen,  which  intimates  a  little 
want  of  provisions.  However,  these  escapes  have  raised 
our  spirits  so  much,  that  we  are  going  to  send  twelve 
thousand  men  more  to  America,  —  where  they  may 
banquet  on  mutton.  Still,  as  it  is  good  to  have  two 
strings  to  our  bow,  the  Governor  Johnstone  is  return- 
ed, *  the  other  two  Commissioners  remain  to  make 
peace,f    to    which    we    are    told    the    Americans   are 

*  Governor  Johnstone  had  been  charged  by  the  Congress  with  an  at- 
tempt to  corrupt  and  bribe  General  Reed  witli  the  sum  of  ten  thousand 
pounds  and  a  public  situation  in  the  colonies  ;  to  which  offer  the  General 
is  said  to  have  answered,  "  that  he  was  not  worth  purchasing,  but,  such  as 
he  was,  the  King  of  Great  Britain  was  not  rich  enough  to  do  it."  In 
consequence  of  this,  the  Congress  interdicted  all  intercourse  and  corre- 
spondence with  the  Commissioners  while  Governor  Johnstone  continued 
one  of  them.  He  therefore  resigned,  and  returned  to  England.  In  a 
letter  to  George  Selwyn,  of  the  6th  of  November,  Mr.  Charles  Townshend 
says,  "  Governor  Johnstone  is  as  mad  as  a  bull.  He  foams  at  the  mouth, 
and  swears  that  he  will  impeach  Lord  Howe  and  Sir  William  for  not 
reducing  America.  Wedderburn  says  he  talks  in  a  very  manly  style  ; 
and  he  is  much  caressed  by  Ministers,  whom  he  has  abused  in  so  coarse 
a  style  to  the  Americans :  you  may  be  sure  he  caresses  them  in  his  turn.  He 
puts  me  in  mind  of  a  character  of  King  James  I.,  given  by  an  old  Scotch 
Lord  at  his  accession  :  '  Ken  you  an  ape  ?  If  Fse  hold  him,  he  will 
bite  you  ;  if  you  hold  him,  he  will  bite  me.'  " — Selwyn  Correspondence, 
vol.  Hi.  p.  347. — Ed. 

t  On  the  3rd  of  October,  the  Commissioners,  preparatory  to  their 
quitting  America  for  England,  published  a  Manifesto.  "  Having  amply 
and  repeatedly,"  they  said,  "  made  known  to  the  Congress,  and  having 
also  proclaimed  to  the  inhabitants  of  North  America  in  general,  the  bene- 
volent overtures  of  Great  Britain  towards  a  reunion  and  coalition  with  her 
colonies,  we  do  not  think  it  consistent  either  with  the  duty  we  owe  to 
our  country,  or  with  a  just  regard  to  the  characters  we  bear,  to  persist  in 


TO   SIR    HORACE   MANX.  I  (If) 

disposed;  a  proof  of  which  is  our  sending  another  amiy 
thither. 

Admiral  Keppcl  is  returned  to  Portsmouth,  and  the 
Brest  squadron  is  again  at  sea  ;  taking  it  by  turns  to 
take  an  airing. 

One  advantage  we  certainly  have,  having  taken  to 
the  value  of  two  millions  in  prizes  ;  on  the  strength 
of  which  we  shall  fling  away  above  double  that  sum. 
But  Ave  never  proposed  to  be  gainers  by  the  war :  we 
had  nothing  to  do,  and  so  we  played  against  ourselves. 

The  Duke  of  Queensberry  is  dead,  at  fourscore ;  and 
leaves  a  great  estate  to  Lord  March,  the  new  Duke. 

holding  out  offers  which,  in  our  estimation,  required  only  to  be  known  to 
be  most  gratefully  accepted  :  and  we  have  accordingly,  excepting  only 
the   Commander-in-chief,  who  will  be  detained  by  military  duties,  re- 
solved to  return  to  England  a  few  weeks  after  the  date  of  this  Manifesto 
and  Proclamation."    In  enclosing  a  copy  to  George  Selwyn,  Lord  Carlisle 
thus  speaks  of  it,  and  of  the  countryand  people  he  was  about  to  leave :  "  Tis 
a  sort  of  last  dying  speech  of  the  Commission  ;  an  effort  from  which  I  ex- 
pect little  success  ;  an  experiment  and  duty  to  our  country  and  ourselves, 
from  which,  however,  in  our  circumstances,  I   fear  will  originate  little 
public  advantage.     Our  weather  is  pleasant,  and  the  appearance  of  the 
country  about  us  infinitely  more  beautiful  than  in  summer  ;  for  there  are 
some  trees,  when  touched  by  the  night  frosts,  that  have  their  leaves 
turned  to  a  bright  red,  which  has  a  very  extraordinary  effect  among 
the  different  shades  of  green  and  yellow  which  predominate  in  autumn. 
Everything  is  upon  a  great  scale  upon  this  continent.     The  rivers  are 
immense  ;  the  climate  violent  in  heat  and  cold  ;  the  prospects  magnifi- 
cent ;  the  thunder  and  lightning  tremendous.     The  disorders  incident  to 
the  country  make  every  constitution  tremble.     We  have  nothing  on  a 
great   scale   with   us  but  our  blunders,   our  misconduct,  our  ruin,   our 
losses,  our  disgraces  and  misfortunes,  that  will  mark  the  reign  of  a  Prince 
who  deserves  better  treatment  and  kinder  fortunes.     Whatever  may  be 
our  reception  at  home,  I  think  I   have  strength  of  mind  enough  to  stem 
the   torrent,  let  it  set  against  me  with  all  its  fury.     I  have  served  my 
King  with  zeal  and  attachment  for  his  government  and  person.     If  I  had 
succeeded,  my  country  would  have  reaped  the  benefit  of  my  labours  ;  as 


106  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

There  is  a  much  more  melancholy  loss,  the  death  of 
Lord  Lincoln."""  He  was  sent  abroad  at  the  last  gasp, 
and  died  two  posts  from  Calais.  You  know  he  mar- 
ried one  of  my  cousins,  a  daughter  of  Lord  Hertford. 
She  is  a  very  pretty,  sensible,  amiable  young  woman, 
and  passionately  fond  of  him.  She  returned  last  night 
with  the  body. 

I  came  to  town  on  Monday  for  a  day  or  two,  and 
have  been  caught  by  the  gout  in  my  foot ;  but  it  is 
very  slight,  and  with  very  little  pain,  so  that  I  hope 
it  will  be  of  short  duration.  It  is  amazing  what  the 
bootikins  have  done  for  me  by  diminishing  the  mass 
of  gout.  I  have  had  no  fit  for  nearly  two  years,  and 
the  three  last  were  very  inconsiderable.  As  I  have 
worn  the  bootikins  constantly  every  night  ever  since 
my  great  fit,  it  is  demonstration  how  serviceable  they 
are  to  me  at  least. 

I  have  not,  I  only  hope  the  approbation  of  the  attempt  will  not  be  re- 
fused me." — Selwyn  Correspondence,  vol.  iii.  p.  339.  As  if  this  unfor- 
tunate Commission  was  to  be  distinguished  from  all  others,  Lord  Carlisle, 
as  Chief  Commissioner,  received,  a  few  days  before  his  departure,  a 
challenge  to  single  combat,  from  the  Marquis  de  La  Fayette,  for  some 
harshness  of  reflection  upon  the  conduct  of  the  French  court  and  nation, 
which  had  appeared  in  one  of  the  public  instruments  issued  by  the  Com- 
missioners in  their  political  capacity.  The  proposal,  which  could  only 
be  excused  by  national  levity  or  the  heat  of  youth,  was  calmly  replied 
to  by  the  noble  Lord :  "  I  confess,"  he  said,  "  I  find  it  difficult  to  return 
a  serious  answer.  I  am  solely  responsible  to  my  country  and  King,  and 
not  to  any  individual,  for  my  public  conduct  and  language.  The  injury 
alluded  to  is  not  of  a  private  nature  ;  and  I  conceive  all  national  disputes 
will  be  best  decided  by  the  meeting  of  Admiral  Byron  and  Count  d'Es- 
taing." — Ed. 

*  Lord  Lincoln  was  the  eldest  son  of  Henry,  first  Duke  of  Newcastle. 
He  married,  in  1775,  Lady  Frances  Seymour,  daughter  of  the  Earl  of 
Hertford.— En. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  I<>7 

Mrs.  Anne  Pitt,  I  hear,  is  in  a  very  wild  way,  and 
they  think  must  be  confined.  She  is  not  the  only  one 
I  know  that  ought  to  be, — but  I  hold  my  peace.  In- 
deed, in  this  country  it  would  be  partiality  to  shut 
up  only  one  or  two  here  and  there. 

I  make  no  excuse  for  being  so  short.  I  am  tired 
of  lamenting  ;  and  still  live,  I  doubt,  to  see  the  comple- 
tion of  all  the  ruin  I  have  foreseen, — and  then  one 
has  lived  too  long  ! 


LETTER  CCXCIII. 

Arlington  Street,  Nov.  16,  1778. 

I  think  I  luckily  wrote  to  you  just  as  I  was 
seized  with  the  gout,  and  told  you  so.  I  am  sure  I 
have  not  been  able  to  write  since,  for  I  am  confined  to 
my  bed  ;  and  have  been  above  this  fortnight  with  the 
gout  in  every  hand,  elbow,  knee,  and  foot  belonging 
to  me,  and  not  one  of  the  eight  is  yet  recovered. 
This  is  so  terrible  a  state  to  suffer,  and  so  tiresome 
to  hear  from  anybody  else,  that  I  shall  say  as  little 
upon  it  as  possible.  There  is  no  danger  in  it :  in 
every  other  light  it  is  deplorable. 

This  confinement  has  cost  you  no  news  but  the  loss 
of  Dominica  ;*  and  you  saw  as  much  of  that  in  the  news- 
paper, at  least,  as  I  could  tell  you.  I  have  this  moment 
received  yours  of  the  27th  of  last  month,  in  which 
you  again  petition  for  good  news,  that  you  may  silence 

*  The  island  of  Dominica  was  taken,  on  the  7th  of  September,  by  the 
Marquis  tie  Bouille,  Governor-General  of  Martinico. — Ed. 


108  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

the  impertinent  buzzes  in  jour  part  of  the  world  ;  but 
in  truth  I  don't  know  how  you  will  stop  their  throats, 
but  by  the  quantity  and  richness  of  the  captures  made 
from  the  French.  The  King's  Speech,  I  doubt,  must 
have  great  recourse  to  the  same  anodyne.  Nothing 
of  consequence  has  been  done  anywhere,  by  fleets  or 
armies ;  and  the  notion  is,  that  our  own  returned 
commanders  are  likely  to  be  warmer  with  one  another, 
than  they  have  been  with  the  enemy  :  but,  indeed, 
I  believe  reports  of  what  is  to  come  still  less  than 
what  is  past,  neither  of  which  have  I  for  some  time 
seen  come  to  anything ; — then  it  is  not  difficult  to 
foresee  the  consequence. 

I  am  surprised  at  the  Hibernian  family  you  mention 
being  arrived  at  Florence  so  soon  :  you  are  very  wel- 
come to  show  them  as  many  civilities  as  you  please, 
and  set  them  down  to  my  account ;  but  do  not  receive 
everything  they  say  of  me  as  coming  from  the  heart. 
They  know  your  partiality  to  me,  and  they  mean  to 
pass  their  time  everywhere  as  agreeably  as  they  can. 
For  the  other  lady,'""  and  her  daughter  Chance,  be 
doubly  upon  your  guard  against  the  mother.  There  is 
nothing  so  black  of  which  she  is  not  capable.  Her 
gallantries  are  the  whitest  specks  about  her. 

I  have  heard  nothing  of  your  nephew's  arrival  ;  but 
shall  be  very  impatient  when  he  does  come  to  see  him 
as  soon  as  I  can  see  anybody.     I  shall  long  to  hear  his 

*  Elizabeth  Drax,  Countess-Dowager  of  Berkeley,  afterwards  married 
to  Robert  Nugent,  Esq.,  since  created  Earl  of  Clare.  During  her  latter 
marriage  she  had  two  daughters,  the  younger  of  whom  Mr.  Nugent  dis- 
avowed for  his.     The  elder  was  married  to  the  second  Earl  Temple. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  1  (JO 

account  of  you,  and  good  accounts  of  you  ;  at  least,  I 
shall  not  hear  that  you  are  little  more  than  a  mummy, 
as  I  am.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCXCIV. 

Arlington  Street,  Nov.  27,  1778. 

In  my  present  situation,  lying  on  a  couch  in  my 
bedchamber,  with  not  a  single  limb  free  but  my  left 
hand,  I  certainly  did  not  expect  any  singular  pleasure 
to-day  ;  and  yet  I  had  the  great  and  unexpected  one 
of  seeing  your  nephew,  who,  though  another,  is  a  true 
Sir  Horace.  He  had  called  here  a  few  days  ago,  when 
I  was  able  to  see  scarcely  anybody ;  and,  not  being  ex- 
pected, he  was  not  admitted.  I  was  heartily  chagrined, 
and  did  not  know  whither  to  send  to  him.  He  was  so 
kind  as  to  come  again  to-day,  when  you  may  be  sure  he 
was  not  refused.  As  I  can  only  dictate,  I  must  retrench 
a  thousand  things  I  would  say ;  but  one  word  will  paint 
my  contentment  with  him.  He  loves  you  as  much  as  he 
would  have  loved  his  father,  if  he  had  known  him  as 
well.  Indeed,  it  is  the  same  thing :  as  I  told  him,  there 
were  two  you's  or  two  he's.  Your  nephew  says  he  would 
not  but  visit  you  every  year  for  the  world,  which  you 
may  be  sure  I  did  not  discourage  ;  though  I  must  na- 
turally wish  just  the  reverse,  i.  e.  that  you  should 
visit  him,  at  least  for  once.  He  tells  me  you  are  very 
plump  and  portly,  and  in  most  admirable  health. 
Poor  young  man!  he  had  a  little  gout  in  one  foot,  and 
I  presented  but  a  sad  perspective  to  him.      But  I  beg- 


110  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

ged  him  not  to  bring  the  gout  into  his  stomach,  by 
being  persuaded  to  keep  it  out  by  strong  wines. 
Though  I  have  been  so  often  afflicted  by  severe  fits 
for  these  twenty  years,  I  never  had  it  but  one  half-hour 
in  my  head,  and  never  once  in  my  stomach.  In  this  fit, 
though  I  kept  my  bed  within  three  days  of  a  month, 
perspired  immoderately  and  almost  constantly,  yet  I 
drank  nothing  but  cold  water  the  whole  time  ;  and  every 
morning,  as  soon  as  I  wake,  have  my  face  and  neck 
washed  with  cold  water.  No  fit  ever  came  so  rapidly 
and  regularly,  nor  went  off  more  kindly — thanks  to 
the  bootikins,  and  to  cold  water  and  air  ;  which  two 
last,  I  am  persuaded  by  long  experience,  will  never 
hurt  me,  though  very  likely  my  system  would  kill  a 
Hercules,  who  all  his  life  kept  up  a  fiery  furnace  in 
his  stomach.  For  your  nephew,  he  seems  to  have  ac- 
quired the  only  thing  he  wanted,  and  which  was  very 
excusable  to  want  at  his  age, — prudence.  And  he  feels 
it  still  more  on  your  account  than  his  own. 

I  beg  the  nation's,  but  not  your  pardon,  for  indulg- 
ing myself  in  giving  the  precedence  to  your  nephew. — 
Now  for  the  other. 

Our  Parliament  opened  yesterday.  The  Speech  did 
not  display  very  promising  prospects,  but  the  debates 
and  events  in  neither  House  were  remarkable  :  prodi- 
gious bickerings  were  expected  between  generals,  ad- 
mirals, commissioners,  and  ministers  ;  but  some  of  the 
points  in  contestation  were  alone  touched,  and  nothing 
probed,  though  probably  only  deferred. 

It  is  said  and  believed,  that  Sir  Harry  Clinton  had 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  Ill 

embarked  a  body  of  troops  for  our  West  Indian  islands, 
but  has  disembarked  them  again  ;  so,  the  merchants 
concerned  in  those  islands  are  in  the  highest  alarms. 
Spain,  I  doubt,  grows  less  and  less  to  be  depended 
upon  ;  and  the  French  party  in  Holland  have  carried 
some  strong  questions  against  our  seizure  of  their  ships, 
though  we  have  offered  reasonable  indemnification. 
In  short,  I  have  neither  good  news  nor  good  prognos- 
tics to  send  you.  All  these  things  are  public  ;  and 
secrets  I  should  not  utter  even  to  you  at  this  distance, 
if  I  knew  any. 

You  shall  hear  again  as  soon  as  I  am  able  to  write, 
or  sooner,  if  there  is  anything  material  to  send  you. 
Your  nephew  will  help  me  out ;  though  in  the  hurry 
of  a  fresh  arrival,  and  with  his  attendance  on  Parlia- 
ment, you  cannot  justly  expect  him  to  be  very  punc- 
tual at  first,  till  he  is  got  en  train :  however,  I  am 
sure  his  heart  will  not  let  him  be  remiss."'     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCXCV. 

Arlington  Street,  Dec.  18,  1778. 

Having  so  many  lonely  vacant  hours  (if  pain  leaves 
vacancy),  I  should  seem  unpardonable  in  having  left 
such  a  chasm  in  our  correspondence,  when  I  know  you 
are  extremely  impatient  for  news.  Solitary  hours,  to 
be  sure,  I  have  had  innumerable,  even  in  my  best  inter- 
vals; for  fashion  has  pushed  the  day  so  far  into  the 
night,  that  I  have  been  forced  to  conform  my  sick  re- 

*  Sir  Horace  Mann  the  younger  was  member  for  Maidstone. — Ed. 


112  THE   HON.    HORACE  WALPOLE 

gularity  a  little  to  the  watches  of  the  town,  and  dine 
later  than  I  choose,  or  dine  in  public :  for  nobody  will 
make  me  a  morning's  visit  before  two  in  the  afternoon, 
nor  leave  me  to  go  home  to  dress  for  dinner  before  four. 
They  come  not  again  till  eight  or  nine  at  night,  when 
they  would  keep  me  out  of  bed  till  twelve,  if  I  would 
let  them. 

But  I  have  had  more  grievous  reasons  for  not  writ- 
ing ;  though  free  from  pain  for  this  week,  I  have  not 
yet  at  all  recovered  the  use  of  my  right  hand.     But  I 
have  had  a  more  serious  and  more   dangerous  com- 
plaint, and  the  consequence  of  my  gout  ;  such  a  weak- 
ness in   my   breast,   that  an  inflammation  on   it  was 
apprehended,  and   I  was  absolutely  forbidden   to  see 
company,  or  even  speak,  which  I  must  do  to  dictate. 
This  codicil  to  my  gout,  I  confess,  was  owing  to  this 
my  second  childhood  ;  in   short,  my  spirits  ran  away 
with  me,  and  I  talked  without  ceasing.     Even  a  child 
is  cunning  enough  to  make  excuses  :  mine  was,  that  I 
could  have  gone  about  the  town  for  three  days  without 
speaking  three  words,  for  I  might  not  have  met  with 
three  persons  to  whom  I  wished  to  speak  ;  but  in  my 
own  room,  where  I  see  nobody  but  those  I  choose  to 
see,  and  many  friends  whom   I  had  not  seen  for  six 
months,  one  must  have  the  continent  tongue  of  Lord 
Abercorn"""    to   be   silent.     Well !  I   am  recovered  of 
that  danger,  and  am  recovering  of  all  the  rest  ;    and 

*  James  Hamilton,  eighth  Earl  of  Abercom,  remarkable  for  his  tacitur- 
nity. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  113 

yon  shall  now  hear  no  more  of  me,  who  am  not  po- 
litics, which  are  what  you  want  to  know. 

Of  them  I  know  not  what  to  write.  The  Parlia- 
ment is  unshaken,  though  it  has  had  rough  concussions. 
The  rash  proclamation""  in  America  alarmed  much,  and 
I  fear  will  have  bitter  consequences  :  but  all  is  swal- 
lowed up  by  the  new  court-martial  on  Admiral  Keppcl ; 
as  rash  an  act  in  its  kind,  and  the  deed,  it  is  said,  of 
that  black  man,  Sir  Hugh  Palliser  alone.f  Its  conse- 
quences  may   be   many,   various,    and   fatal  ;    but    I 

*  The  Manifesto  of  the  Commissioners!,  referred  to  at  p.  104. 

t  The  court-martial  was  ordered  for  the  7th  of  January.  On  receiv- 
ing the  notice,  Admiral  Keppel  repaired  to  the  House  of  Commons, 
where  Mr.  Temple  Luttrell  moved  an  address  to  the  King,  praying  him  to 
order  a  court-martial  on  Sir  Hugh  Palliser.  Upon  this,  Sir  Hugh  rose, 
and  with  much  acrimony  attacked  the  Admiral's  conduct ;  who,  in  an- 
swer, professed  his  readiness  to  meet  inquiry.  "  Thank  God,"  he  said, 
"  I  am  not  the  accuser,  but  the  accused.  I  was  called  to  serve  my 
country  at  a  very  critical  period  ;  I  have  performed  my  duty  to  the  best 
of  my  abilities,  and  whatever  the  issue  may  be,  I  have  one  consolation, 
that  I  have  acted  strictly  to  the  best  of  my  judgment."  He  was  greeted 
with  the  loudest  applause,  and  retired  from  the  House,  accompanied  by  a 
large  body  of  the  members.  In  consequence  of  Admiral  Keppel's  bad 
state  of  health,  a  bill  was  brought  in  to  allow  the  court-martial  to  he 
held  on  shore.  It  passed  the  Commons  without  opposition,  but  was  op- 
posed in  the  Lords  by  Lord  Thurlow,  on  the  plea  that  the  Admiral's  bad 
state  of  health  had  not  been  proved.  Upon  which,  the  Marquis  of  Rock- 
ingham observed,  that  "  he  had  seen  him  the  other  evening  leave  the 
House  of  Commons,  with  a  glory  of  conscious  innocence  around  his 
head  :  no  person  could  have  quitted  it  with  more  seeming  celerity, 
strength,  dignity,  and  manly  vigour  ;  yet  he  dined  with  him  the  same 
evening,  and  such  was  the  strange  prccariousness  and  vicissitude  of 
his  spirits,  though  only  an  hour  elapsed  since  he  saw  him  leave  the 
House  of  Commons,  that  he  took  half  an  hour  to  get  up  from  the 
ground-floor  to  the  dining-room,  being  in  the  interim  afflicted  with  the 
severest  pains  from  cramp  in  both  his  legs."  See  the  very  able  and 
interesting  "  Life  of  Viscount  Keppel,"  by  the  Hon.  and  Rev.  Thomas 
Keppel,  vol.  ii.  p.  83. — En. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  I 


114  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

neither  love  to  foresee,  nor  to  spread  misfortunes  of 
my  country,  when  my  letter  must  pass  through  the 
ordeal  of  as  many  hostile  post-houses  as  formerly  galant 
ladies  passed  over  burning  plough-shares. — Let  us  talk 
rather  of  galant  ladies — but  no,  I  hate  scandal  ;  and, 
besides,  our  greatest  dames  are  no  longer  galant,  but 
errant  street-walkers,  and  I  have  never  promised  to 
send  you  the  register  of  Doctors'  Commons  :  our  news- 
writers  are  the  proper  secretaries  of  that  tribunal,  and 
can  scarcely  outstrip  the  truth. 

What  I  have  long  apprehended  is  on  the  point  of 
conclusion,  the  sale  of  the  pictures  at  Houghton  :  the 
mad  master  has  sent  his  final  demand  of  forty-five 
thousand  pounds  for  them  to  the  Empress  of  Russia, 
at  the  same  time  that  he  has  been  what  he  calls  im- 
proving the  outside  of  the  house  ;  basta !  Thus  end 
all  my  visions  about  Houghton,  which  I  never  will  see, 
though  I  must  go  thither  at  last ;  nor,  if  I  can  help  it, 
think  of  more. 

Your  old  acquaintance,  Mr.  Worseley,""  is  dead,  and 
in  a  shocking  way  to  us  moderns,  though  a  la  Romaine : 
he  had  such  dreadful  internal  complaints,  that  he  de- 
termined to  starve  himself,  and  for  the  four  last  days 
tasted  exactly  nothing. 

My  newly  recovered  voice  will  not  permit  me  to  dic- 
tate :  your  nephew  and  the  newspaper  can  tell  you  as 
much  more  as  I  could.  If  I  have  any  judgment,  which 
I  doubt,  the  tragedy  is  coming  rather  to  the  fifth  act 
than  to  the  conclusion.     Hitherto  the  drama  has  been 

*  James  Worseley,  Master  of  the  Board  of  Works. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  115 

carried  on  by  relation,  or — behind  the  scenes  ;  now  the 
denouement  may  be  on  the  stage.  Adieu!  I  am  quite 
tired. 


LETTER   CCXCVI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Jan.  5,  1779. 

Old  women — our  only  remaining  prophets,  except 
the  Opposition  and  a  little  common  sense, — prognosti- 
cate great  woes  for  the  coming  year,  from  the  omens  of  its 
first  day.  A  tempest  at  the  instant  of  the  new  year  made 
terrible  havoc  of  tiles,  chimneys,  and  trees ;  and  at 
night  great  part  of  Greenwich  Hospital  was  burnt.  I 
doubt  casualties  will  not  be  the  sole  completion  of  the 
augury.  There  is  actually  great  apprehension  for  Ja- 
maica, or,  at  least,  some  of  the  West  Indian  Islands.  I 
believe  there  are  no  eggs  laid  for  achievements  on  our 
side,  but  some  for  discontent.  The  trial  of  Admiral 
Keppel  is  most  unpopular,  especially  with  his  own  pro- 
fession. Lord  Hawke  and  eleven  other  Admirals  have 
presented  to  the  King  a  remonstrance  against  the  pre- 
cedent, on  the  lateness  of  the  complaint,  on  the  impro- 
propriety  of  it  as  subjecting  Commanders-in-chief  to 
the  uncertainty  of  opinion,  and  on  the  precipitation  of 
the  Admiralty  in  ordering  the  trial.  A  draught  of  the 
Remonstrance  was  shown  to  Mr.  Keppel  himself;  he 
tore  it,  and  desired  it  might  not  be  presented.  This 
did  him  great  honour,  but  did  not  prevent  the  de- 
livery.*    I  should  think  the  Parliament  would  meet 

*  The  conduct  of  the  Admiralty  in  appointing  the  court-martial  gave 
the  highest  disgust  to  all  ranks  in  the  navy,     Twelve  British  Admirals,  at 

i  2 


11C  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

again  in  cloudy  weather,  though  they  may  vote  it 
is  fair. 

I  came  hither  on  New  Year's  Day  to  try  change  of 
weather,  as  I  mend  very  slowly,  or  not  at  all.  In 
truth,  I  expect  but  little  melioration.  My  natural 
weakness,  with  so  many  attacks,  so  much  gout  in  my 
constitution,  and  sixty-one — no  elastic  age,  make  me 
conclude  that  I  shall  not  pass  much  of  my  remaining 
time  out  of  my  own  houses.  It  is  a  doom  I  shall  not 
struggle  with  :  I  have  no  idea  of  forcing  a  helpless 
skeleton  upon  other  people,  nor  can  see  myself  but 
what  I  am.  It  seems  strange  to  me  that  so  many  de- 
crepit cardinals  should  have  accepted  the  tiara,  when 
they  were  as  likely  to  be  buried  as  crowned. 

I  shall  carry  this  letter  to  town  with  me  to-morrow, 
and  add  any  news,  if  I  hear  any  before  Friday.  I 
might,  from  the  little  I  had  to  say,  have  waited  till 
the  Parliament  met  next  week  ;  but  it  seems  as  if  I 
had  not  written  to  you  for  some  time.  Your  nephew, 
I  conclude,  is  out  of  town,  for  I  have  seen  him  but  the 
once  I  told  you.  But  I  am  still  more  impatient  to  hear 
from  you  again,  as  your  last  left  you  with  remains  of 
fever.  I  know  you  are  not  rash,  and  know  how  to 
manage  yourself  in  fevers  ;  but  you  have  not  good 
Dr.  Cocchi  to  watch  you,  and  I  have  no  opinion  of 
Italian  Galens.  I  think,  too,  that  there  was  low- 
spirited  accent   in  your  style,   but  trust  it  was  the 

the  head  of  whom  was  Keppcl's  old  commander,  the  veteran  Hawke, 
drew  up  a  memorial,  which  was  presented  to  the  King  hy  the  Duke  of 
Bolton. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  I  1  7 

effect  of  the  times.  I  impute  to  that  habit  an  ex- 
pression, which,  though  the  effusion  of  your  friendship 
and  tenderness  for  me,  I  must  reclaim  against.  You  say, 
you  love  and  adore  me.  Jesus  !  my  dear  sir  !  What 
an  object  of  adoration  !  You  put  me  in  mind  of  what 
I  have  read  in  some  traveller,  who,  viewing  some  Indian 
temple  that  blazed  with  gold  and  jewels,  was  at  last 
introduced  into  the  sanctum  sanctorum,  where  behind 
the  veil  sat  the  object  of  worship — an  old  baboon! 
and,  perhaps,  poor  pug's  inside,  as  well  as  out,  was 
fairer  than  mine  ! 

8th. 

I  have  no  news  to  add :  all  eyes  are  now  on  Ports- 
mouth, where  the  trial  began  yesterday.  Prudence  is 
not  gone  thither,  nor  had  any  hand  in  the  business  : 
but  she  has  been  out  of  fashion  for  some  time ;  and 
her  mimic,  Cunning,  does  not  act  her  part  with  suc- 
cess.    Adieu ! 


LETTER  CCXCVII. 

Jan.  29,  1779. 

Suspense  still !  The  Court-martial  continues,  and 
everything  respectfully  awaits  its  determination  :  even 
France  and  America  seem  to  lie  upon  their  oars  till  the 
oracle  at  Portsmouth  has  pronounced. *     The  response, 

*  Gibbon,  writing  at  this  time  to  Mr.  Holroyd,  says,  "  Portsmouth 
is  no  longer  an  object  of  speculation.  The  whole  stream  of  all  men  and 
all  parties  runs  one  way.  Sir  Hugh  is  disgraced,  ruined,  &c.  In  a 
night  or  two  we  shall  be  in  a  blaze  of  illumination,  from  the  zeal  of  naval 
heroes,  land  patriots,  and  tallow-chandlers  ;  the  last  are  not  the  least 
sincere." — Ed. 


118  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

however,  is  not  likely  to  be  ambiguous.  There  has 
been  such  juggling  to  warp  the  judgment  of  the  priests 
of  Neptune  ;  and  the  frauds  have  been  so  openly  de- 
tected, and  salt-water  Flamens  are  so  boisterous  when 
they  can  see  through  an  imposition;  that  Palliser  and 
his  accomplices,  high  and  low,  will  probably  rue  the 
tempest  they  have  brewed.  I  hinted  in  my  last  that 
there  is  a  man,*  whom  you  once  knew  well,  that  pre- 
fers cunning  to  prudence  :  he  will  not  exult  in  the 
choice  he  has  made.  The  Duke  of  Marlborough  and 
Lord  Pembroke  declare  against  the  First  Lord  of  the 
Admiralty ;  the  second  is  expected  to  be  less  out  of 
humour  with  the  Court-martial  than  with  being  denied 
the  Mastership  of  the  Horse ;  but,  when  a  tide  turns, 
it  sweeps  many  along  with  it.  I  will  say  no  more  of 
politics ;  the  horizon  does  not  clear — but  I  have  no 
events  to  tell  you.  I  write  only  to  amuse  your  im- 
patience. 

Garrick    is  dead  ;    not  a  public  loss,  for   he  had 
quitted  the  stage.f     He  is  to  be  buried  on  Monday 

*  Lord  Sandwich,  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty. 

+  David  Garrick  died  on  the  20th  of  January,  at  his  house  on  the 
Adelphi  Terrace,  in  the  sixty-third  year  of  his  age.  His  widow  survived 
him  forty-three  years,  and  died  in  1822,  in  her  ninety-ninth  year. 
Dr.  Johnson  pays  the  following  high  tribute  to  the  memory  of  the 
great  actor,  in  the  concluding  passage  of  his  Life  of  Edmund  Smith 
the  poet :  "  At  this  man's  table  I  enjoyed  many  cheerful  and  instructive 
hours,  with  companions  such  as  are  not  often  found  ;  with  one  who  has 
lengthened,  and  one  who  has  gladdened  life ;  with  Dr.  James,  whose 
skill  in  physic  will  be  long  remembered,  and  with  David  Garrick,  whom 
I  hoped  to  have  gratified  with  this  character  of  our  common  friend  •  but 
what  are  the  hopes  of  man  !  I  am  disappointed  by  this  stroke  of  death 
which  has  eclipsed  the  gaiety  of  nations,  and  impoverished  the  public 
stock  of  harmless  pleasures." — Ed. 


TO   Sill   HORACE   MANN.  110 

in  great  ceremony  in  Westminster  Abbey  ;*  but,  not 
having  been  so  inattentive  to  worldly  riches  as  Lord 
Chatham,  his  family  will  not  be  provided  for  by  Par- 
liament. They  had  both  great  merit  in  their  different 
walks,  and  were  both  good  actors ;  but  we  are  Athe- 
nians enough  to  be  full  as  fond  of  the  stage  as  of  the 
State.  Both,  at  present,  are  a  little  in  want  of  a 
genius. 

There  is  a  report  that  the  poor  simple  Lord  May- 
nardf  has  shot  himself  at  Naples — is  it  true  1  The 
Duke  of  Dorset  is  almost  in  as  bad  a  scrape  as  if  he 

*  Hannah  More,  in  a  letter  to  her  sister,  gives  the  following  striking 
account  of  Garrick's  interment :  "  The  bell  of  St.  Martin's  and  the  Abbey 
gave  a  sound  that  smote  upon  my  very  soul.     We  were  put  into  a  little 
gallery  directly  over  the  grave,  where  we  could  see  and  hear  every  thing 
as  distinctly  as  if  the  Abbey  had  been  a  parlour.    We  were  no  sooner  re- 
covered from  the  first  burst  of  grief,  than  I  cast  my  eyes,  the  first  thing, 
on  Handel's  monument,  and  read  the  scroll  in  his  hand,  '  I  know  that  my 
Redeemer  liveth.'     Just  at  three  the  great  doors  burst  open  with  a  noise 
that  shook  the  roof ;  the  organ  struck  up,  and  the  whole  choir,  in  strains 
only  less  solemn  than  the  '  archangel's  trump,'  began  Handel's  fine  an- 
them.    The  whole  choir  advanced  to  the  grave,  in  hoods  and  surplices, 
singing  all  the  way  ;  then  Sheridan,  as  chief  mourner ;  then  the  body, 
(alas  !  whose  body  ?)  with  ten  noblemen  and  gentlemen  pall-bearers  ; 
then  the  rest  of  the  friends  and  mourners  ;  hardly  a  dry  eye — the  very 
players,  bred  to  the  trade  of  counterfeiting,  shed  genuine  tears.     As  soon 
as  the  body  was  let  down,  the  Bishop  began  the  service,  which  he  read 
in   a  low,  but  solemn  and    devout   manner.     Such  an   awful  stillness 
reigned,  that  every  word  was  audible.     How  I  felt  it !     Judge  if  my 
heart  did  not  assent  to  the  wish,  that  the  soul  of  our  dear  brother  now 
departed  was  in  peace.     And  this  is  all  of  Garrick  !     Yet  a  little  while, 
and  he  shall  say  to  the  worm,  '  Thou  art  my  brother ;'  and  to  corruption, 
'  Thou  art  my  mother  and  my  sister.'    So  passes  away  the  fashion  of  this 
world." — Life,  vol.  i.  p.  157. — Ed. 

t  He  had  married  the  well-known  Nancy  Parsons,  who  had  been  kept 
by  the  Dukes  of  Grafton,  Dorset,  &c. ;  but  it  was  not  true  that  he  had 
killed  himself. 


120  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

had  married  Lady  Maynard.  He  is  waiting  for  a 
Duchess  till  Lady  Derby*  is  divorced.  He  would 
not  marry  her  before  Lord  Derby  did,  and  now  is 
forced  to  take  her,  when  he  himself  has  made  her  a 
very  bad  match.  A  quarter  of  our  Peeresses  will  have 
been  wives  of  half  our  living  Peers. 

You  must  be  content  with  these  brief  letters,  while 
I  write  for  your  satisfaction  rather  than  for  your  in- 
formation. I  am  recovered  enough  to  go  to  a  few 
places ;  but  I  do  not,  nor  can  expect  to  mend  so 
fast  as  when  younger. 


LETTER  CCXCVIII. 

Arlington  Street,  Feb.  11,  1779. 

I  am  only  getting  ready  this  letter  for  to-morrow, 
when  it  is  to  set  out  with  the  full  triumph  of  Admiral 
Keppel,  which  is  expected  in  town  to-night  from  Ports- 
mouth. The  fronts  of  several  houses  are  already  de- 
corated with  lamps,  and,  as  soon  as  the  courier  ar- 
rives, I  suppose  the  whole  town  will  be  in  a  blaze — I 
hope,  only  of  light ;  but,  when  a  mob  expresses  its  joy, 
one  may  always  fear  lest  it  should  mistake  mischief  for 
merriment.  The  guards  are  ordered  to  be  doubled  :  I 
fancy,  a  few  of  them  will  not  be  far  from  the  Admi- 
ralty.! 

The  good  people  of  Edinburgh  have  set  but  an  ugly 

*   Lady  Elizabeth  Hamilton.     The  divorce  did  not  take  place. 

f  Lord  Sandwich,  Keppel's  enemy,  was  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  I '21 

example.  There  has  been  a  serious  insurrection  against 
the  Papists,  and  two  mass-houses  were  burnt  ;  and  the 
Provost  quieted  the  tumult  only  by  promising  that  the 
toleration  of  Popery  should  not  be  extended  to  Scot- 
land. This  will  be  agreeable  news  to  the  Americans, 
who  did  not  expect  to  see  the  Administration  reproved 
by  Scots. 

You  will  not  be  agitated  by  popular  rumours.  If  I 
repeat  them  to  you,  it  is,  that  if  anything  should  hap- 
pen, you  may  not  be  surprised.  In  a  word,  some 
changes  at  least  are  expected,  particularly  in  the  Ad- 
miralty, the  rudder  of  which,  it  is  said,  has  been  oifered 
to  Lord  Howe, — some  say,  and  refused  by  him  ;  others, 
that  he  objected  to  Lord  George  Germain  ;  and  others, 
that  he  demands  an  inquiry  on  himself  and  his  brother. 
Lord  Suffolk  is  certainly  to  retire  on  the  plea  of  in- 
firmity, which  is  a  reason  why  he  should  not  come  into 
place  ;  and  Lord  Buckingham  is  to  quit  Ireland,  and,  I 
believe,  is  allowed  to  say,  at  his  own  request  too — he 
also  might  have  had  an  earlier  plea : — in  short,  difficul- 
ties at  present  are  more  plentiful  than  resources.  Per 
contra,  Spain  is  said  to  have  offered  us  her  mediation, 
and  to  have  it  accepted.  Yesterday  I  heard  that  the 
Duke  of  Medina  Sidonia  had  actually  set  out  for  Paris 
on  that  errand,  but  was  dead  on  the  road.  The  want 
of  a  successor  will  not  be  an  impediment,  if  there  is  no 
other. 

This  minute  I  receive  your  tender  letter  of  the  16th 
of  last  month  :  but  pray,  my  dear  sir,  be  easy  about 
me  ;  I  am  as  much  recovered  as  probably  I  shall  be. 


122  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

I  go  out,  and  walk  tolerably  with  a  cane.     To  be  sure, 
another  severe  fit  may  confine  me  at  home;  but,  as  I 
do  not  indulge  distant  hopes,  why  should  I  disturb  my- 
self with  future  fears  1     I  have  patience  and  submis- 
sion, and  they  are  at  least  as  potent  as  care.   Of  every- 
thing I  make  the  best  I  can.    Immediate  vexations  one 
cannot  easily  divert ;  but  gloomy  thoughts  that  are  re- 
sident, and  return  only  when  the  mind  is  vacant,  I 
remove  by  any  amusement  that  offers.     This  is  my 
case  about  my  nephew  and  Houghton.     I  forget  them 
as  fast  as  possible,  though  I  own  they  frequently  return. 
It  is  very  true,  I  did  desire  the  pictures  should  be  sold, 
as  I  preferred  his  paying  his  grandfather's  and  father's 
debts  to  false  splendour  ;  but  that  is  not  the  case  now. 
As  he  is  not  legally  obliged,  he  does  not  think  of  ac- 
quitting his  father's  debts ;  and,  as  he  has  compounded 
his  grandfather's  unsatisfied  debts  for  fifteen  thousand 
pounds,  he  does  not  want  forty  thousand.     In  short,  I 
am  persuaded   that   the   villainous   crew  about   him, 
knowing  they  could  not  make  away  clandestinely  with 
the  collection  in  case  of  his  death,  prefer  money  they 
can  easily  appropriate  to  themselves.     Whether  the 
price  affixed  is  adequate,  or  too  low,  is  difficult  to  say. 
Imaginary  value  depends  on  circumstances  and  times. 
I  once  should  have  thought  forty  thousand  pounds  a 
high  price  :  the  whole  collection  made  by  my  father,  of 
which  there  have  already  been  three  sales,  cost  but  that 
sum.     Five  years  ago,  with  the  opulence  and  rage  for 
virtii,  they  would  have  produced  more.     At  present, 
not  so  much.     Last  night  I  heard  the  bargain  is  not 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  1  U:3 

concluded.  Cipriani  was  desired  to  value  them,  and 
has  called  in  West.  To  be  sure,  I  should  wish  they 
were  rather  sold  to  the  Crown  of  England  than  to  that 
of  Russia,  where  they  will  be  burnt  in  a  wooden  palace 
on  the  first  insurrection  :  here  they  would  be  still  Sir 
Robert  Walpole's  collection.  But  my  grief  is  that  they 
are  not  to  remain  at  Houghton,  where  he  placed  them, 
and  wished  them  to  remain.  Pride  and  pity  leave  me 
but  that  desire. 

At  midnight. 

I  am  this  moment  come  in,  and  may  as  well  write  to 
you  as  go  to  bed ;  for  it  is  impossible  to  sleep,  from  the 
noise  of  squibs  and  crackers.  The  Sentence  arrived  at 
half-an-hour  after  nine,  and  in  two  hours  the  whole 
town  was  illuminated."'"     I  drove  with  two  ladies  from 

*  No  sooner  was  it  known  that  Admiral  Keppel  was  fully  and  honour- 
ahly  acquitted,  than  a  general  illumination  took  place  :  Sir  Joshua  Rey- 
nolds, in  a  letter  to  the  Admiral,  says — "  They  were  universal,  I  helieve, 
without  the  exception  of  a  single  house.  Poor  Sir  Hugh's  house  in  Pall 
Mall  was  entirely  gutted,  and  its  contents  burnt  in  St.  James's  Square, 
in  spite  of  a  large  party  of  horse  and  foot,  who  came  to  protect  it.  Lord 
North  and  Lord  Bute  had  their  windows  broke.  The  Admiralty  gates 
were  unhinged.  To-night,  I  hear,  Sir  Hugh  is  to  be  burnt  in  effigy  before 
your  door.  I  have  taken  the  liberty  to  lend  your  picture  to  an  engraver  to 
make  a  large  print  from  it."  From  the  following  passage  in  Mr.  Burke's 
"  Letter  to  a  Noble  Lord,"  it  will  be  seen,  that  this  picture  had  been 
presented  to  him  by  the  Admiral  at  Portsmouth  :  "  It  was  but  the  other 
day,  that,  in  putting  in  order  some  things,  I  looked  over  a  number  of  fine 
portraits,  most  of  them  of  persons  now  dead,  but  whose  society,  in  my 
better  days,  made  this  a  proud  and  happy  place.  Amongst  them  was 
the  picture  of  Lord  Keppel.  It  was  painted  by  an  artist  worthy  of  the 
subject,  the  excellent  friend  of  that  excellent  man  from  their  earliest 
youth,  and  a  common  friend  of  us  both,  with  whom  we  lived  for  many 
years  without  a  moment  of  coldness,  of  peevishness,  of  jealousy,  or  of  jar, 
to  the  day  of  our  final  separation.  I  ever  looked  upon  Lord  Keppel  as  one 
of  the  greatest  and  best  men  of  his  age  ;  and  I  loved  and  cultivated  him 


124  the  iion.  iiorace  walpole 

Grosvenor  Square  to  Spring  Garden,  to  wish  old  Lady 
Albemarle4'  joy.     She  had  just  been  blooded,  for  she 

accordingly.  He  was  much  in  my  heart,  and  I  believe  I  was  in  his  to 
the  very  last  heat.  It  was^at  his  trial  at  Portsmouth  that  he  gave  me 
this  picture.  With  what  zeal  and  anxious  affection  I  attended  him 
through  his  agony  of  glory  ;  what  part  my  son  took  in  the  early  flush  and 
enthusiasm  of  his  virtue,  and  the  pious  passion  with  which  he  attached 
himself  to  all  my  connections  ;  with  what  prodigality  we  both  squandered 
ourselves  in  courting  almost  every  sort  of  enmity  for  his  sake  ;  I  believe 
he  felt,  just  as  I  should  have  felt  such  friendship  on  such  an  occasion." — 
It  may  not  be  improper  to  add,  that  the  counsel  employed  by  Admiral 
Keppel  were,  Mr.  Dunning,  Mr.  Lee — and  the  Hon.  Thomas  Erskinc  ; 
who,  finding  neither  the  naval  nor  military  service  congenial  to  his  taste, 
had,  only  in  the  Trinity  term  of  the  preceding  year,  been  called  to  the  bar. 
As  a  mark  of  the  high  sense  he  entertained  of  the  zeal  and  indefatigable 
industry  shown  by  Mr.  Erskine  upon  this  occasion,  the  Admiral  enclosed 
him  two  bank-notes  of  five  hundred  pounds  each.  The  future  Lord 
Chancellor  of  England  called  in  Audley  Square,  to  acknowledge  the  re- 
ceipt of  them  ;  but,  not  finding  Admiral  Keppel  at  home,  he  wrote  a  note 
in  the  porter's  hall,  which  it  would  be  an  act  of  injustice  to  his  memory 
not  to  subjoin:' — "You  must,  no  doubt,  my  dear  Sir,  have  been  very 
much  surprised  at  receiving  no  answer  to  your  most  generous  letter  ;  but 
I  trust  you  are  well  enough  acquainted  with  my  temper  and  feelings  to 
find  out  the  reason,  and  to  pardon  me.  I  was,  indeed,  altogether  unable 
to  answer  it.  I  could  not  submit  to  do  injustice  to  my  gratitude  and 
affection,  and  was  therefore  obliged  to  be  silent  till  I  could  wait  upon  you 
in  person  ;  and,  having  missed  you,  must  be  silent  still.  I  shall,  there- 
fore, only  say,  that  the  generous  present  you  have  sent  me  is  out  of  all 
kind  of  bounds  and  measure,  even  if  the  occasion  had  afforded  an  oppor- 
tunity of  rendering  them  ;  how  much  the  more  when  your  own  ability 
and  the  absurdity  of  the  occasion  wholly  disappointed  my  zeal  ?  At  all 
events,  the  honour  of  attending  Admiral  Keppel  would  have  been  in 
itself  a  most  ample  reward  ;  an  honour  which,  whatever  my  future  for- 
tunes may  be,  I  shall  ever  consider  as  the  brightest  and  happiest  in  my 
life,  and  which  my  children's  children  will  hereafter  claim  as  an  inherit- 
ance. I  do  most  sincerely  pray  God  that  every  blessing  may  attend 
you,  and  that  you  may  be  spared  for  the  protection  of  a  country  which 
has  proved  itself  worthy  of  protection.  My  heart  must  ever  be  with 
you."     Lord  Keppel's  Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  218. — Ed. 

*  Lady  Anne  Lennox,  youngest  daughter  of  Charles  Lennox  first 
Duke  of  Richmond,  widow  of  William-Anne  second  Earl  of  Albemarle, 
mother  of  George  third  Earl,  and  of  Admiral  Augustus  Keppel. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  12f> 

is  seventy-five,  but  you  may  imagine  was  in  happy 
spirits ;  for  the  Sentence  is  as  honourable  as  possible, 
and  terms  the  accusation  unfounded  and  malicious  in 
every  article.  Palliser  escaped  from  Portsmouth  this 
morning  at  five,  and  arrived  in  a  hired  post-chaise  at 
the  Admiralty  ;  but  was  known  as  he  entered,  and  was 
pulled  by  the  populace  by  the  coat,  but  got  in  safe. 
We  passed  twice  by  his  house  in  Pall  Mall  just  now, 
and  found  a  mob  before  it,  but  a  strong  guard  of  soldiers 
and  constables.  The  people  have  not  been  riotous  yet : 
but  as  they  are  flinging  squibs,  and  the  streets  are  full, 
there  will  be  accidents,  if  no  determined  mischief.  I 
hope  to-morrow  morning  to  hear  that  the  night  has 
passed  quietly,  which  will  be  to  the  honour  of  the  Op- 
position. The  Opposition  in  my  father's  time  were  not 
of  so  harmless  a  complexion  ;  but  as  he  was  guiltless, 
which  is  known  and  allowed  now,  malevolence  could 
only  keep  up  a  spirit  against  him  by  clamour.  But, 
good  night !  I  will  reserve  the  rest  of  my  paper  for  to- 
morrow. 

Friday  morn,  12th. 

My  servants,  who  have  been  out  this  morning,  tell 
me  that  about  three  o'clock  the  mob  forced  their  way 
into  Palliser's  house,  in  spite  of  the  guards,  and  de- 
molished everything  in  it ;  and  that  they  broke  the 
windows  of  Lord  George  Germain  and  of  Lord  North, 
and  that  several  of  the  rioters  are  taken  up.  How  wise 
in  an  unsuccessful  Administration  to  have  commenced 
accusation ! 

You  talk  of  skating  on  the  Arno — it  is  hot  enough 


12G  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

here  to  bathe  in  the  Thames.  I  was  literally  forced  to 
throw  off  the  quilt  of  my  bed  the  night  before  last — the 
women  are  afraid  of  an  earthquake.  I  will  write  again 
soon,  for  I  think  there  will  be  matter. 

P.S.   The  mob  entirely  gutted  Sir  Hugh  Palliser's 
house,  but  the  furniture  had  been  removed. 


LETTER  CCXCIX. 

Arlington  Street,  Feb.  18,  1779. 

I  promised  you  a  sequel  to  my  history  of  illumina- 
tions, and  here  it  is.  They  were  repeated  on  Friday 
night,  the  12th ;  and  were  more  universal  than  on  the 
preceding  evening,  but  without  the  least  disorder  or 
riot.*  The  day  before  yesterday  the  Admiral  himself 
arrived,  as  privately  as  he  could  ;  but  at  night  all  West- 
minster was  again  lighted  up  and  part  of  the  City,  and 
guns  and  crackers  were  fired  till  morning,  and  yet  no 
mischief  done.  The  two  Houses  have  voted  compliments 
to  him,f  and  the  City  its  freedom.  Palliser  has  resigned 
his  seat  at  the  Admiralty,!  and  vacated  that  in  Parlia- 
ment, for  fear  of  being  expelled.  He  has  demanded  a 
trial ;  but  the  Admiralty  is  accused  of  being  less  eager 

*  Many  gentlemen  of  rank  took  part  in  these  rejoicings.  Mr.  Pitt 
is  said  to  have  assisted  in  breaking  windows,  and  the  young  Dvike  of  An- 
caster  was  actually  taken  amongst  the  rioters,  and  passed  the  night  in  the 
watch-house. — Ed. 

+  In  the  Lords,  the  vote  of  thanks  was  moved  by  the  Marquis  of  Rock- 
ingham, and  seconded  by  the  Duke  of  Bolton  ;  in  the  Commons,  by 
Colonel  Bane,  who  was  seconded  by  Sir  George  Savile. — Ed. 

X  Admiral  Mann  was  appointed  to  fill  the  vacant  situation. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  VI 

to  order  it  than  they  were  that  of  Keppel.  The  latter 
had  not  been  at  Court  yesterday,  nor  in  the  House  ;  but 
there  have  been  motions  in  both  Houses  leading  to  the 
attack  on  Lord  Sandwich.  It  is  not  known  whether 
he  will  be  removed  or  not.  The  town  believes  there 
have  been  negotiations  with  the  Opposition,  but  that  the 
terms  offered  were  not  satisfactory.  I  assert  so  little, 
that  I  shall  certainly  draw  you  into  no  rash  credulity. 
Were  you  here,  you  might  believe  twenty  false  reports 
every  hour.  It  is  not  always  the  case  of  persons  at  a 
distance  to  be  the  best  informed  ;  but  you  have  a  very 
cautious  historian. 

I  shall  reserve  the  rest  of  my  paper  till  to-morrow  ; 
for,  though  I  send  you  nothing  but  facts,  every  day  may 
produce  some  event  at  present.  The  times  have  a  bag 
of  eggs  like  a  pullet. 

19th. 

The  Admiral  was  at  the  House  yesterday,  when  the 
Speaker  harangued  him  in  a  fine  oration,  they  say  ; 
to  which  he  made  a  very  modest  and  pathetic  answer."" 
To-morrow  he  is  to  be  congratulated  and  banqueted 
by  the  City,  on  which,  I  hear,  we  are  again  to  be  illu- 
minated ;  but  I  am  tired  of  crackers,  and  shall  go 
quietly  to  Strawberry.  There  was  to  be  a  motion  in 
the  Commons  to-day  for  addressing  the  King  to  remove 
Palliser  from  his  other  posts  of  General  of  the  Marines 
and  Governor  of  Scarborough  ;f  but  I  shall  know  the 

*  After  making  it,  the  Admiral  was  so  overcome  by  that  extreme  sen- 
sibility that  characterized  him,  that  he  immediately  retired  from  the 
House. — Ed. 

t  A  motion  was  made  on  the  following  day,  by  Mr.  Fox,  for  the  dis- 


128  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALrOLE 

result  before  the  post  is  gone  out,  and  must  refer  you 
to  the  newspapers. 

The  French  will  not  like  the  eclair cissement  of  the 
Court-martial,  by  which  it  is  clear  they  were  beaten 
and  fled.  The  City,  which  does  not  haggle,  has  ex- 
pressed this  a  little  grossly  in  their  address  to  Keppel.  * 
I  do  not  love  exultation.  There  is  no  grace  but  in 
silent  victory.  Our  insults  to  the  Americans  at  the 
outset  of  the  war  were  not  in  the  character  of  this 
country ;  and  double  the  shame  on  those  who  have  cer- 
tainly not  been  victorious  over  them  !  The  authors  of 
the  war  have  made  a  woful  figure  from  the  beginning 
to  this  day  ! 


LETTER  CCC. 

Feb.  25,  1770. 

Your  veritable  nephew  brought  me,  yesterday, 
your  letter  of  the  6th,  which  came  by  the  courier,  and 
he  has  just  sent  me  a  message  that  your  servant  is  to 
set  out  on  his  return  at  three  o'clock.  It  is  now 
noon,  and  I  am  expecting  a  person  on  business,  so  that 
I  shall  have  but  a  minute  to  write. 

My  last  letters  have  hinted  at  the  disgraces  Lord 

missal  of  Sir  Hugh  Palliser  from  all  his  military  employments  ;  hut  on 
his  being  informed,  by  Lord  North,  that  Sir  Hugh  had  resigned  the 
above  situations,  and  was  to  be  tried  by  a  court-martial,  Mr.  Fox  con- 
sented to  withdraw  it. — Ed. 

*  The  Address  stated,  "that  the  spirit  and  intrepidity  of  our  officers 
and  seamen  had  conveyed  terror  to  our  enemies,  and  obliged  them  to  seek 
shelter  in  their  own  ports  by  an  ignominious  flight." — Ed. 


TO   SIR    HORACE    MANN.  1l'!> 

Sandwich's  artifices  have  brought  on  the  Court  by  the 
absurd  persecution  of  Admiral  Keppel.  It  was  very 
nearly  overturning  the  Administration;  and  the  Chan- 
cellor, Lord  Weymouth,  and  the  Paymaster,'"'  (a  little 
faction  of  themselves,)  would  have  tumbled  the  rest 
down,  could  they  have  offered  enough  to  content  the 
Opposition.  I  think  the  present  system  will  hold  to- 
gether something  longer,  though  their  credit  is  much 
shaken.  The  Opposition  is  not  very  able,  the  session 
is  far  advanced,  and  a  little  success  has  arrived  to  pro}) 
them.  St.  Lucia  is  taken,  secures  St.  Vincent's,  and,  if 
Byron  joins  that  expedition  unhurt  by  D'Estaing,  the 
West  Indies  will  be  saved.  These  are  "  Ifs  f  but  yet 
more  than  the  Ministers  have  had  for  some  time.  The 
other  expedition  to  Georgia  has  prospered  too,  but  is 
too  small,  and  with  the  winter  to  struggle  through,  to 
be  of  much  consequence  :  and  you  see  we  have  not  as 
yet  sent  a  man  to  America  of  late,  nor  can  get  a 
thousand.  In  short,  what  I  would  not  mention  but 
by  your  own  courier,  nothing  can  be  more  deplorable 
than  our  prospect.  It  was  but  yesterday  Lord  North 
could  tell  the  House  he  had  got  the  money  on  the  loan, 
and  is  happy  to  get  it  under  eight  per  cent.  Then  the 
new  taxes  are  to  come,  and  new  discontent ;  the  ill- 
humour  certainly  rises  very  little  in  proportion  to  the 
distresses  ;  yet  even  that  has  a  bad  cause — the  indif- 
ference and  dissipation  of  the  whole  country.  I  fear 
it  must  be  some  great  blow  that  will  rouse  us.  I 
doubt  whether  the  French  will  think  of  Minorca.     Our 

*  Mv.  Rigby. 
VOL.   III. — NEW  SERIES.  K 


130  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

greatest  felicity  is,  that  they  seem  to  have  thought  as 
little  as  we.  Is  it  credible  that  they  should  have  at- 
tempted nothing  1  The  war  hitherto  has  been  a  war 
of  privateering,  in  which  France  has  suffered  most.  In 
one  word,  the  backwardness  of  Spain  has  saved  us. 
Their  junction  with  France  had  given  the  finishing 
blow. 

This  is  but  a  sketch,  and  as  much  as  I  have  time  to 
tell  you.  I  do  not  say  so  much,  nor  anything  to  your 
nephew  that  might  give  him  an  impression  that  might 
recoil  on  you.  Indeed,  I  do  but  look  on,  and  lament 
the  fall  of  England.  Easy  I  am  so  far,  that  the  ill- 
success  of  the  American  war  has  saved  us  from  slavery 
— in  truth,  I  am  content  that  liberty  will  exist  any- 
where, and  amongst  Englishmen,  even  'cross  the  Atlan- 
tic. The  Scots,  who  planned  our  chains,  have,  as 
formerly,  given  the  Court  some  heart-aches,  and  would 
be  the  first  to  give  more  if  the  tide  should  turn.  I 
think  the  King  will  support  Sandwich  still ;  though  the 
load  on  him  is  heavy.  Admiral  Keppel  has  behaved 
with  much  decency,  and  more  temper  than  could  be 
expected.  There  was  more  riot  on  Saturday,  when  he 
dined  in  the  City,  and  much  fracture  of  windows  ;  but 
it  is  generally  believed  that  the  Court  hired  the  mob, 
to  make  the  other  side  sick  of  rejoicing.  The  Admiral 
has  declined  another  dinner,  with  the  West  India  mer- 
chants, to  prevent  more  tumult  ;*  and,  now  St.  Lucia  is 
taken,  I  believe  they  are  glad  to  be  rid  of  him. 

*  "  I  cannot,"  said  the  Admiral,  in  his  letter  to  the  chairman  of  the 
West  India  Company,  in  which  he  declined  this  invitation,  "hut  be  proud  of 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  131 


This  is  enough  for  a  comment  on  my  late  letters. 
You  know,  I  never  shift  my  principles  with  times.* 
The  times,  alas !  have  shifted  their  principles ;  but  I 
am  interrupted,  and  must  seal  my  letter,  lest  it  be 
too  late. 


LETTER  CCCI. 

Arlington  Street,  March  9th,  177!). 

There  has  been  a  moment  in  which  the  scales 
have  been  more  equally  balanced  than  for  some 
years  ;  but  the  fluctuation  has  not  lasted  a  week.  On 
Wednesday,  the  Opposition  in  the  House  of  Commons 
mounted  to  170,  and  the  Majority  sunk  to  34.  Yes- 
terday, though  the  former  mustered  four  more  votes, 
the  Administration  rejected  the  motion  by  a  majority 
of  72.  The  questions  both  days  related  to  the  Fleet,  f 
Yesterday  Admiral  Keppel  and   Lord  Howe  declared 

the  demonstrations  of  joy  so  generally  expressed  ;  yet  I  should  feel  myself 
much  reprehensible,  if  I  afforded  a  pretence  to  any  to  say  that  I  encou- 
raged any  excesses  at  a  late  hour  of  the  night,  which  tend  to  alarm  and 
disturb  the  quiet  of  the  town  ;  and  I  can  truly  say  that  I  did  all  in  my  power 
to  prevent  the  last  instance  of  it." — Ed. 

*  "  Manners  with  fortunes,  humours  turn  with  climes, 

Tenets  with  books,  and  principles  with  times." — Pope. 

t  Both  the  motions  were  made  by  Mr.  Fox.  The  first  was  a  motion 
of  censure  on  the  Admiralty,  in  sending  out  Admiral  Keppel  with  too 
small  a  force  ;  the  second  related  to  the  state  of  the  navy  on  the  breaking 
out  of  the  war  with  France.  The  first  division  was  a  most  unusual  one 
on  the  side  of  the  minority.  During  the  debate,  Lord  North  is  said  to 
have  showed  a  degree  of  passion  and  vehemence  not  at  all  customary 
with  him. — Ed. 

k  2 


]  32  THE    HON.  HORACE    WALPOLE 

they  could  not  serve  under  the  present  Ministers  ;  yet  I 
think  the  latter  will  stand  their  ground,  even  to  Lord 
Sandwich,  though  the  general  opinion  is  that  he  will 
have  the  Seals,  which  Lord  Suffolk's  death  has  vacated."" 
He  died  at  the  Bath  on  Saturday,  whither  he  was  but 
just  arrived  in  a  desperate  state.  His  death  is  no  blow 
but  to  his  family.  Seldom  was  he  able  to  do  any 
business  ;  and  had  no  talents  when  he  could. 

While  I  am  writing  to  you,  I  am  wishing  for  some 
Member  of  the  House  of  Commons  to  come  in,  to  give 
me  an  account  of  your  nephew ;  for  one  of  the  morning 
papers  says  he  sj)oke  yesterday  for  the  Court ;  and, 
though  I  am  persuaded  well,  I  want  to  be  told  so  ; 
and,  as  I  dine  abroad,  I  am  at  least  as  eager  to  be  able 
to  tell  you  so,  and  am  afraid  of  not  knowing  it  in 
time.  I  did  write  to  you  by  your  courier,  but  be- 
lieve he  did  not  set  out  by  some  clays  so  soon  as  I 
expected  ;  however,  he  must  arrive  before  this. 

We  have,  undoubtedly,  made  a  great  number  of 
French  prizes  ;  and  D'Estaing,  in  particular,  has  made 
a  woful  figure.  They  say  at  Paris,  that,  if  ever  he  is 
Marshal  of  France,  "  au  moins  son  baton  ne  sera  pas  du 
bois  de  Sainte  Lucie."  There  do  not  seem  to  spring 
many  heroes  out  of  this  war  on  either  side.  Fame  has 
shut  her  temple,  too,  in  Germany  :  yet  I  think  both 
the  Emperor  and  King  of  Prussia  have  some  claim  on 
history  ;  the  latter  by  clipping  Cassar's  soaring  wings, 

*  The  vacancy  occasioned  by  the  death  of  the  Earl  of  Suffolk  was 
not  filled  up  till  October  ;  when  Lord  Storniont  was  appointed  one  of 
the  principal  Secretaries  of  State. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  133 

and  Caesar  by  having  kept  so  old  and  so  able  a  profes- 
sor at  bay  for  a  whole  campaign.  Still,  the  professor 
has  carried  a  great  point  by  having  linked  his  interests 
with  those  of  the  Empire.  The  gratitude  of  those 
princes  might  soon  wear  out ;  but  it  is  their  interest 
to  maintain  a  great,  though  new,  power,  that  can  ba- 
lance the  House  of  Austria. 

We  have  no  private  news  of  any  sort.  As,  by  your 
desire,  I  write  more  frequently  than  formerly,  you 
must  be  content  with  shorter  letters  ;  for  distance  and 
absence  deprive  us  of  the  little  incidents  of  common 
correspondence.  I  am  forced  to  write  to  you  of  such 
events  only  as  one  would  write  to  posterity.  One 
cannot  say,  "  I  dined  with  such  a  person  yester- 
day," when  the  letter  is  to  be  a  fortnight  on  the  road  ; 
still  less,  when  you  know  nothing  of  my  Lord  or  Mr. 
Such-an-one,  whom  I  should  mention. 

Your  nephew  desired  me  to  give  him  a  list  of  pam- 
phlets for  you ;  I  told  him,  as  is  true,  that  there  is 
scarcely  any  such  thing.  The  pamphleteers  now  vent 
themselves  in  quotidian  letters  in  the  newspapers. 
Formerly,  you  know,  there  were  only  weekly  essays 
in  a  Fog's  Journal  or  Craftsman  :  at  present,  every 
morning  paper  has  one  page  of  political  invective  at 
least,  and  so  coarse,  that  they  would  be  as  sour  as 
vinegar  before  they  reached  Florence :  you  would 
cross  yourself  at  reading  them. 

I  asked  you  about  a  report  of  Lord  Maynard's 
sudden  death.  We  know  it  was  false,  and  that  his 
wife,  who  has  always  some  fascinating  powder,  has  es- 


134  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

tablished  herself  at  the  Court  of  Naples,  by  dispensing 
James's.  They  say  she  is  universally  visited,  except 
by  those  English  prudes,  the  Countesses  of  Berkeley  and 
Orford.  I  should  not  wonder  if  the  former  was  to 
dethrone  Lady  Maynard  by  distributing  Keysar's  pills.'* 
P.S.  I  kept  my  letter  open  to  the  last  minute, 
and  am  now  vexed  to  tell  you  that  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser misled  me.  Your  nephew  did  speak  yesterday, 
and  very  well ;  but  not  for  the  Administration.!  It 
surprises  me  much  ;  for  the  last  time  I  saw  him,  not 
a  fortnight  ago,  his  language  was  very  different,  as  it 
was  before  Christmas ;  and  I  told  you  how  much  I 
encouraged  him  in  those  sentiments  on  your  account ; 
not  that  I  think  any  man  could  be  so  unjust  as  to 
impute  his  deviations  to  you,  who  would  be  the  last 
man  upon  earth  to  instil  opposition  into  him.  I  hope 
he  has  no  such  intention,  and  that  this  sally  will 
have  no  suite.  It  would  be  impossible  for  me,  and 
so  out  of  character  that  it  would  have  no  weight,  to 
argue  with  him,  when  I  have  ever  so  totally  con- 
demned the  American  war,  which  has  undone  us  ;  but 
I  shall  entreat  him  not  to  frequent  the  House,  and 
to  return  to  you,  rather  than  act  a  part  that  would 
be  unpleasing  to  you.     I  think  if,  in  your  gentle  way* 

*  For  the  cure  of  a  disgusting  disease. 

t  Though  Sir  Horace  Mann,  the  younger,  had  voted  against  Mr.  Fox's 
motion  on  the  third  instant,  for  a  censure  on  the  conduct  of  the  Admi- 
ralty, he  said  lie  felt  himself  bound  to  give  his  full  assent  to  an  inquiry 
into  the  state  of  the  Navy  ;  seeing  that  the  facts  stated  in  the  motion 
were  matters  of  public  notoriety,  as  well  known  without  the  House  as 
within. — En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  1 35 

you  lamented  yourself  to  him,  his  congenial  nature 
would  be  more  struck  than  even  if  he  had  not  acted 
contrary  to  your  wishes.  I  have  not  time  to  say  a 
word  more  —  but  do  not  torment  yourself.  Trust 
to  your  own  merit ;  and,  if  your  modesty  is  too  great 
for  that,  call  in  philosophy,  that  is  a  real  comforter, 
when  coupled  with  the  consciousness  of  having  done 
our  duty. 


LETTER  CCCII. 

Arlington  Street,  March  22nd,  1 779. 

If  your  representative  dignity  is  impaired  west- 
ward, you  may  add  to  your  eastern  titles  those  of 
"Rose  of  India"  and  "Pearl  of  Pondicherry." *  The 
latter  gem  is  now  set  in  one  of  the  vacant  sockets 
of  the  British  diadem. 

I  have  nothing  to  subjoin  to  this  high-flown  para- 
graph, that  will  at  all  keep  pace  with  the  majesty 
of  it.  I  should  have  left  to  the  Gazette  to  wish  you 
joy,  nor  have  begun  a  new  letter  without  more  ma- 
terials, if  I  did  not  fear  you  would  be  still  uneasy 
about  your  nephew.  I  hear  he  has,  since  his  paren- 
thesis, voted  again  with  the  Court  ;f  therefore  he  has 

*  After  a  most  gallant  defence  by  M.  de  Bellecombe,  Pondicherry 
capitulated  to  the  conjunct  British  forces  under  the  command  of  Major- 
General  Munroe  and  Sir  Edward  Vernon,  on  the  17th  of  October,  1778. 
—Ed. 

f  This  was  on  Mr.  Dunning's  motion,  on  the  15th,  condemnatory  of  the 
Board  of  Admiralty,  in  so  immediately  directing  a  court-martial  upon  Admi- 
ral Kcppel.  In  the  course  of  this  debate  Mr.  Fox  declared,  "  that  the  man, 
the  Earl  of  Sandwich  (he  named  him),  who  deprived  the  country  of  two 


130  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

probably  not  taken  a  new  part  but  only  made  a  Pin- 
daric transition  on  a  particular  question.  I  have 
seen  him  but  twice  since  his  arrival,  and  from  both 
those  visits  I  had  no  reason  to  expect  he  would  act 
differently  from  what  you  wished.  Perhaps  it  may 
never  happen  again.  I  go  so  little  into  the  world, 
that  I  don't  at  all  know  what  company  he  frequents. 
He  talked  so  reasonably  and  tenderly  with  regard  to 
you,  that  I  shall  be  much  deceived  if  he  often  gives 
you  any  inquietude. 

The  place  of  Secretary  of  State  is  not  replenished 
yet.  Several  different  successors  have  been  talked  of. 
At  least,  at  present,  there  is  a  little  chance  of  its 
being  supplied  by  the  Opposition.  Their  numbers 
have  fallen  off  again,  though  they  are  more  alert  than 
they  used  to  be.  I  do  not  love  to  foretell,  because 
no  Elijah  left  me  his  mantle,  in  which  it  seems  the 
gift  of  prophecy  resides  ;  and,  if  I  see  clouds  gather- 
ing, I  less  care  to  announce  their  contents  to  foreign 
post-offices.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  no  secret,  nor 
one  to  disguise  if  it  were,  that  the  French  trade  must 
suffer  immensely  by  our  captures. 

Private  news  I  know  none.  The  Bishops  are  trying 
to  put  a  stop  to  one  staple  commodity  of  that  kind, 
Adultery.""    I  do  not  suppose  that  they  expect  to  lessen 

of  her  bravest  Admirals,  Kcppol  and  Howe,  was  a  greater  traitor  to  the 
nation  than  the  man  who,  last  year,  set  fire  to  the  dock-yards." — Ed. 

*  The  object  of  this  bill  was  to  discourage  the  crime  of  adultery,  by 
fixing  a  brand  of  infamy  on  the  adulteress,  that  might  operate  as  a  terror 
upon  the  mind.  It  was  introduced  by  Dr.  Shute  Barrington,  Bishop  of 
Llandaff;   who  stated,  that  as  many  divorces  had  occurred  in  the  seven- 


TO   SIR    HORACE    MANN.  1:57 

it ;  but,  to  be  sure,  it  was  grown  to  a  sauciness  that 
did  call  for  a  decenter  veil.  I  do  not  think  they 
have  found  out  a  good  cure  ;  and  I  am  of  opinion,  too, 
that  flagrancy  proceeds  from  national  depravity,  which 
tinkering  one  branch  will  not  remedy.  Perhaps  po- 
lished manners  are  a  better  proof  of  virtue  in  an  age 
than  of  vice,  though  system-makers  do  not  hold  so  : 
at  least,  decency  has  seldom  been  the  symptom  of  a 
sinking  nation. 

When  one  talks  on  general  themes,  it  is  a  sign  of 
having  little  to  say.  It  is  not  that  there  is  a  dearth 
of  topics ;  but  I  only  profess  sending  you  information  on 
events  that  really  have  happened,  to  guide  you  towards 
forming  a  judgment.  At  home,  we  are  fed  with  mag- 
nificent hopes  and  promises  that  are  never  realized. 
For  instance,  to  prove  discord  in  America,  Monsieur 
de  la  Fayette  was  said  to  rail  at  the  Congress,  and 
their  whole  system  and  transactions.  There  is  just 
published  an  intercourse  between  them  that  exhibits 
enthusiasm  in  him  towards  their  cause,  and  the  highest 
esteem  for  him  on  their  side."5'     For  my  part,  I  see 

teen  years  ofjiis  Majesty's  reign,  as  had  taken  place  during  the  whole  re- 
corded history  of  the  country.  The  hill  passed  the  Lords,  hut  was  strongly 
opposed  in  the  Commons  hy  Mr.  Fox,  and  thrown  out  by  a  majority  of 
51  against  40.  In  announcing  the  result  to  George  Selwyn,  Mr.  Hare 
thus  writes,  "  Charles  Fox  made  a  very  fine  speech,  abounding  in  cx- 
ellent  morality.  We  are  all  beggars  at  Brookes's,  and  he  threatens  to 
leave  the  house,  as  it  yields  him  no  profit." — Ed. 

*  The  Marquis  de  la  Fayette  arrived  in  Paris,  from  America,  in 
February.  Speaking  of  the  return  of  the  Marquis,  Mr.  Cooper,  in  a 
letter  to  Dr.  Franklin,  says,  "  He  will  do  me  the  honour  to  he  the 
bearer  of  this  letter.  This  young  nobleman  has  done  honour  to  his  nation, 
as  well  as  to  himself,   by  the  manner    in  which   he    has    served  these 


138  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

as  little  chance  of  recovering  America  as  of  re-con- 
quering the  Holy  Land."*  Still  I  do  not  amuse  you 
with  visions  on  either  side,  but  tell  you  nakedly  what 
advantage  has  been  gained  or  lost.  This  caution  ab- 
breviates my  letters ;  but,  in  general,  you  can  depend 
on  what  I  tell  you.     Adieu  ! 

Tuesday  24th. 

I  hear  this  moment  that  an  account  is  come  this 
morning  of  D'Estaing  with  sixteen  ships  being  blocked 
up  by  Byron  at  Martinico,  and  that  Rowley  with 
eight  more  was  expected  by  the  latter  in  a  day  or 
two.  D'Estaing,  it  is  supposed,  will  be  starved  to  sur- 
render, and  the  island  too.  I  do  not  answer  for  this 
intelligence  or  consequences ;  but,  if  the  first  is  be- 
lieved, you  may  be  sure  the  rest  is. 

States.  His  intrepidity  and  alertness  in  the  field  are  highly  distinguished. 
.His  prudence  and  good  temper  are  equally  remarkable.  He  is  highly 
esteemed  and  beloved  in  Congress,  in  the  army,  and  through  the  States  ; 
and  though  we  are  not  without  parties,  and  his  situation  has  been  some- 
times very  delicate,  I  have  never  heard  that  he  has  made  a  single  enemy. 
He  has  gone  through  great  fatigues,  he  has  faced  uncommon  dangers,  he 
has  bled  for  our  country,  and  leaves  it,  as  far  as  I  am  able  to  find,  with 
universal  applause." — Ed. 

*  In  answer  to  a  proposition  for  quitting  the  alliance  with  France, 
Dr.  Franklin  had,  on  the  3rd  of  February,  thus  written  to  David  Hartley, 
"  There  does  not  appear  any  more  necessity  for  dissolving  an  alliance 
with  France,  before  you  can  treat  with  us,  than  there  would  of  dissolving 
your  alliance  with  Holland,  or  your  union  with  Scotland,  before  we 
could  treat  with  you  !  Thanks  to  God,  we  have  long  since  settled  all 
the  account  in  our  own  minds  :  we  know  the  worst  you  can  do  to  us, 
if  you  have  your  wish,  is,  to  confiscate  our  estates  and  take  our  lives,  to 
rob  and  murder  us  ;  and  this  Ave  have  shown  we  are  ready  to  hazard, 
rather  than  come  again  under  your  detested  government.'" — En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  139 


LETTER  CCCIII. 


Strawberry  Hill,  April  17,  1770. 

I  am  grieved  to  hear  of  your  having  the  rheuma- 
tism so  acutely  in  your  head.  Though  it  is  not  dan- 
gerous, like  the  gout,  its  duration  is  more  fluctuating, 
and  not  consistent  in  a  fit.  I  trust  it  will  be  gone 
long  before  I  hear  again  ;  but  the  suspense  will  be  very 
uneasy  to  me,  and  one  of  the  evils  of  such  great  dis- 
tance. 

I  was  glad  to  hear  your  nephew  had  himself  given 
you  an  account  of  his  parenthesis  of  opposition,  as 
you  can  speak  more  freely  to  him  than  if  you  had 
learnt  it  only  from  me.  Very  uncertain  it  is  when 
I  shall  see  him  again,  which  I  have  done  but  thrice  ; 
nor  could  I  expect  more  from  so  much  younger  a  man. 
We  live  in  very  different  worlds,  or  rather  I  live  al- 
most out  of  it,  and  he  quite  in  it,  and  yet  not  where 
I  do.  At  this  time  of  year,  too,  I  am  here  half  the 
week.  I  hope  he  will  give  you  no  more  uneasiness ; 
but  you  must  have  patience  if  he  does.  Nephews  and 
nieces  are  not  very  tractable.  My  own  uncle  did  not 
find  me  so  ;  and  I  do  not  wonder  at  others.  One 
must  wrap  one's  self  up  in  one's  self.  People  have 
difficulty  enough  of  conducting  their  own  children — 
mercy  on  us,  were  we  to  answer  for  collaterals ! 

There  have  been  no  Parliamentary  clouds,  because 
during  the  holydays  there  has  been  no  Parliament  : 
but  the  political  horizon  does  not  clear  up.  I  bade 
you  a  little  expect  the  conquest  of  Martinico ;  but  that 


140  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

prospect  seems  pretty  much  vanished.  If  the  letters 
yesterday  from  France  speak  truth,  our  trust  in  Spain 
is  dispelled  likewise  :  it  is  said  she  has  declared  for 
the  Americans  too,  and  it  has  been  whispered  here 
for  these  two  days: — there  is  no  occasion  to  com- 
ment on  that  addition  to  our  load ! — nor  shall  I  tell 
you  other  ugly  symptoms.  A  Spanish  war  is  as 
much  as  you  can  digest  at  once.  If  I  alarm  you 
on  bad  grounds,  it  will  make  amends  for  my  having 
vainly  promised  you  Martinico — though  I  never  war- 
rant but  what  is  actually  passed. 

Though  Sir  Hugh  PaUiser's  trial  has  been  begun  this 
week,"""  the  public  does  not  honour  it  with  the  same 
attention  as  Keppel's.  It  does  not  brighten  for  the 
Vice-Admiral. 

For  the  last  week  all  conversation  has  been  en- 
grossed by  a  shocking  murder,  committed  on  the  per- 
son of  a  poor  woman  connected  with  a  most  material 
personage  now  on  the  great  stage.  You  will  have  seen 
some  mention  of  it  in  the  papers  ;  I  mean  the  assassi- 
nation of  Miss  Ray,  Lord  Sandwich's  mistress,  by  a 
clergyman,  who  had  been  an  officer,  and  was  despe- 
rately in  love  with  her,  though  she  is  between  thirty 
and  forty,  and  has  had  nine  children.f  She  was  allowed 
to  be  most  engaging ;  and  so  was  the  wretched  lover, 
who  had  fixed  his  hopes  of  happiness  on  marrying  her, 

*  Sir  Hugh  PaUiser's  trial  commenced  at  Portsmouth,  on  board  the 
Sandwich,  on  the  12th  of  April. — Ed. 

t  For  several  interesting  letters  in  reference  to  the  tragical  fate  of  this 
unfortunate  lady,  see  the  Selwyn  Correspondence,  vol.  iv.  p.  59. — Ed. 


TO    Sill   HORACE   MANN.  141 

and  had  been  refused,  after  some  encouragement ;  I 
know  not  how  much.  On  his  trial  yesterday  he  be- 
haved very  unlike  a  madman,  and  wishes  not  to  live, 
lie  is  to  suffer  on  Monday,  and  I  shall  rejoice  when  it 
is  over ;  for  it  is  shocking  to  reflect  that  there  is  a  hu- 
man being  at  this  moment  in  so  deplorable  a  situation. 
It  would  be  foolish  to  repeat,  that  we  are  a  nation  of 
lunatics  ;  yet,  with  so  many  outward  and  visible  signs, 
can  one  avoid  thinking  so  1  Alas !  we  are  likely  to 
undergo  sharp  purgations,  that  may  bring  us  to  our 
senses  again !  The  loss  of  blood  has  not  yet  cured 
us.  For  the  loss  of  money,  it  has  had  but  the  same 
effect  on  the  nation  as  on  our  youthful  gamesters — it 
has  made  us  more  extravagant. 

I  shall  reserve  the  rest  of  my  paper  till  Tuesday — 
perhaps  I  may  be  able  to  contradict  the  Spanish 
article. 

Tuesday. 

No  ;  I  do  not  affirm  nor  deny  :  however,  nothing  is 
yet  public,  and  I  imagine  there  is  still  some  negotia- 
tion going  on,  as  the  Spanish  Ambassador  receives  fre- 
quent couriers,  and  writes  much. 

The  poor  assassin  was  executed  yesterday.""'     The 

*  In  a  letter  to  George  Selwyn,  who  had  an  unaccountable  passion  for 
witnessing  criminal  executions,  but  who  happened  to  be  absent  at  Paris 
when  the  poor  wretch  suffered,  the  Countess  of  Ossory  wrote  thus  on  the 
following  day  :  "  Mr.  Hackman's  behaviour  was  glorious  yesterday.  Jack 
Ketch  deserves  to  be  hanged,  for  when  the  poor  man  dropped  the  hand- 
kerchief, it  fell  under  the  cart,  and  he  ran  to  pick  it  up,  so  by  that  means 
kept  the  poor  wretch  some  moments  in  that  horrid  state."  Selwyn  had 
also  the  pleasure  of  receiving  another  letter,  on  the  same  subject  and  day, 
from  Dr.  Warner  :    "  Mr.  Hackman,"  writes  the  reverend  gentleman, 


142  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

same  day  Charles  Fox  moved  for  the  removal  of  Lord 
Sandwich,  but  was  beaten  by  a  large  majority  ;*  for  in 
Parliament  the  Ministers  can  still  gain  victories. 
Adieu ! 


LETTER  CCCIV. 

Strawberry  Hill,  April  24,  1779. 

I  begin  my  letter  here,  because  I  am  alone  and 
have  leisure,  of  which  I  cannot  be  sure  in  town  ;  and, 
should  I  have  any  sudden  news  to  send,  I  might  not 
have  time  to  add  the  trifles  I  may  wish  to  add. 

I  met  your  nephew  the  other  night  at  the  Duchess 
of  Montrose's,!  and  was  happy  to  hear  he  had  received 
a  more  recent  and  better  account  of  you  than  what 
you  gave  me  of  the  rheumatism  in  your  head.  I  will 
send  you  by  him  bootikins  for  both  hands  and  feet.  I 
sometimes  have  rheumatic  pains  in  the  shoulder  in  the 
evening,  and  a  bootikin  on  my  hand  immediately  re- 
moves it.  I  should  hope  it  would  be  as  efficacious  for 
the  head,  should  it  return  thither,  contrary  to  my  ear- 
nest wishes. 

The  decision  of  Spain  is  not  publicly  known  yet. 
In  France  they  expect  it  in  their  favour.J     Some  here 

"  has  been  tried,  condemned,  and  executed,  and  is  now  a  fine  corpse  at 
Surgeons'  Hall,  where  I  saw  him  yesterday,  a  genteel,  well-made  young 
fellow  of  four  and  twenty."  Correspondence,  vol.  iv.  p.  95. — Ed. 

*  The  numbers  on  the  division  were  221  against  118. — Ed. 

t  Lady  Lucy  Manners,  daughter  of  the  Duke  of  Rutland.  Lady  Lucy 
Mann,  Sir  Horace's  wife,  was  related  to  her. 

X  The  looked-for  accommodation  did  not  take  place. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  143 

still  think  it  will  be  a  neutrality.  Did  one  judge  any 
longer  by  the  Stocks,  the  augury  would  be  good. 
They  cannot  reasonably  have  risen,  as  they  have 
done,  on  the  diminutive  success  in  Georgia,  which 
has  not  even  encouraged  the  victors  to  hope  to 
advance,  without  what  they  are  far  from  receiving,  a 
reinforcement.  Nor  are  we  more  prosperous  against 
D'Estaing  ;  nor  is  the  capture  of  eight  or  nine  Domingo- 
men  very  beneficial  to  stockholders  :  but  so  much  in- 
dustry is  used  of  late  in  bolstering  up  the  Stocks,  that 
they  are  no  longer  the  weather-glass  of  fortune,  but 
part  of  the  mask  employed  to  disguise  the  nation's 
own  face  to  itself. 

There  has  been  a  motion  in  each  House  this  week 
for  the  removal  of  Lord  Sandwich  ;  but  both  Houses 
think  him  as  white  as  snow.*  Palliser,  probably,  will 
be  equally  blanched.  The  Howes,  on  the  other  hand, 
will  come  immaculate  out  of  the  furnace  :  I  believe, 
if  the  Duchess  of  Kingston  was  to  return,  she  might  be 
voted  into  her  old  post  of  Maid  of  Honour.  Lord 
Lyttelton,f  who  thinks  he  has  talents  for  Secretary  of 

*  The  motion  in  the  House  of  Lords,  which  was  made  hy  the  Earl  of 
Bristol,  was  rejected  by  78  against  39. — Ed. 

t  Thomas,  second  Lord  Lyttelton,  who  married,  in  June  1772,  the 
daughter  of  Broome  Watts,  of  Chipping  Norton,  Esq.,  and  relict  of 
Joseph  Peach,  governor  of  Calcutta.  His  remarkable  death,  which  took 
place  in  the  following  November,  will  be  hereafter  noticed.  The  fol- 
lowing striking  character  is  drawn  of  him  by  the  Rev.  Montagu  Penning- 
ton, in  his  Life  of  Mrs.  Carter  :  "  With  great  abilities,  generally  very  ill 
applied  ;  with  a  strong  sense  of  religion,  which  he  never  suffered  to  in- 
fluence his  conduct,  his  days  were  mostly  passed  in  splendid  misery,  and 
in  the  painful  change  of  the  most  extravagant  gaiety  and  the  deepest 
despair.     The   delight,   when  he  pleased,  of  the  first  and   most  select 


144  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

State,  and  that  want  of  principles  is  no  impediment 
(it  was  not  to  his  being  Justice  in  Eyre),  has  again 
turned  against  the  Court  on  obtaining  the  Seals.  The 
grass  would  grow  in  our  Temple  of  Virtue,  if  it  was  the 
sole  vestibule  to  our  Temple  of  Honours.  Governor 
Johnstone,  having  had  such  clumsy  success  as  Am- 
bassador of  peace  to  America,  has  made  his  bargain, 
and  is  turned  into  a  commodore  of  a  cruising  squadron."' 
It  is  judicious  enough,  I  think,  to  convert  such  men  as 
go  upon  the  highway  of  fortune  into  privateers  ;  but 
what  a  figure  do  we  make  in  Europe  !  Unable  to 
raise  the  sums  we  want  for  the  war,  the  members  of 
that  Parliament  that  is  told  so,  are  yet  occupied  in 
preying  on  the  distresses  of  the  Government !  What 
comments  must  Dr.  Franklin  make  on  every  newspaper 
to  the  French  Ministers  ! 

27th. 

I  find  nothing  new  in  town.  Rumours  of  peace 
continual.  I  doubt  it  is  easier  for  both  sides  to  be 
sick  of  the  war,  than  to  know  how  to  agree.  I  doubt, 
too,  that  we  want  peace  more  than  we  desire  it  ;  and, 
as  we  must  buy  it  dear,  we  shall  not  be  so  ready  to 
pay  the  price.     It  will  not  be  very  sincere  to    the 

societies,  he  chose  to  pass  his  time,  for  the  most  part,  with  the  most 
profligate  and  abandoned  of  both  sexes.  Solitude  was  to  him  the  most 
insupportable  torment  ;  and,  to  banish  reflection,  he  flew  to  company 
whom  he  despised  and  ridiculed." — Ed. 

*  The  Governor  was  sent  out  as  commander-in-chief  to  the  Lisbon 
station,  with  the  rank  of  established  Commodore.  On  his  passage 
thither,  two  of  his  squadron,  the  Tartar  and  the  Rattlesnake,  captured 
the  Santa  Margaretta,  a  Spanish  frigate.  His  own  ship,  the  Romney, 
had  no  share  in  the  action. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  1  |f> 

Americans,  if  we  do  conclude  ;  and  the  intentional 
insincerity  often  promotes  peace,  and  at  least  makes 
the  sufferers  shut  their  eyes  to  their  own  loss.  We  have 
betrayed  such  propensity  to  duplicity,  that  the  other 
side  will  aggravate  the  bargain  ;  for,  as  cunning  is  no 
new  invention,  it  is  equally  in  the  power  of  both  par- 
ties to  employ  it."*  Mankind  will  not  remember  that 
honesty  cannot  be  detected. 

I  should  not  send  away  this  scrap,  and  with  so  little 
intelligence,  if  I  were  not  glad  to  tell  you  that  I  am 
easier  about  your  disorder.  I  will  not  write  again 
soon  without  more  substantial  news. 


LETTER  CCCV. 

Strawberry  Hill,  May  9,  1779. 

An  invasion  announced  by  the  common  post  from 
Paris,  attempted,  repulsed,  given  up,  and  known  here  : 
all  this  has  happened  in  eight  days,  and  in  miniature  ; 
but  it  was  a  large  object,  and  a  long  and  anxious  in- 
terval to  me,  for  the  object  was  Jersey,  Mr.  Conway's 
government,  and  he  went  post  to  defend  it.     He  has  no 

*  "  We  have  no  kind  of  faith  in  your  Government,"  wrote  Dr.  Franklin 
at  this  time  to  Mr.  Hartley  ;  "  it  appears  to  he  as  insidious  and  deceitful 
as  it  is  unjust  and  cruel :  its  character  is  that  of  the  spider  in  Thomson, 

'  Cunning  and  fierce, 
Mixture  abhorred  !' 

Besides,  we  cannot  see  the  necessity  of  our  relinquishing  our  alliance 
with  France  in  order  to  a  treaty,  any  more  than  of  your  relinquishing 
yours  with  Holland." — Ed. 

VOL.  III. NEW    SERIES.  L 


146  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

idea  of  danger,  and  has  the  strongest  one  of  doing  his 
duty  to  a  scruple  ;  but  I  will  now  be  methodical,  for 
you  want  information,  not  a  rhapsody  on  my  sensa- 
tions. 

On  the  1st  of  May,  yesterday  sevennight,  there 
were  forty  letters  in  town  that  proclaimed  an  in- 
tended attack  on  Jersey,  of  fifteen  hundred  men  com- 
manded by  a  Prince  of  Nassau,  who  was  to  be  declared 
King  of  the  island.  A  secret  expedition  advertised 
with  so  slender  a  force,  exceeded  by  the  troops  on  the 
isle,  to  say  nothing  of  the  ridicule  of  such  a  Roi 
d'Yvetot,  did  not  make  much  impression  :  however, 
Mr.  Conway  spread  his  wings,  with  my  approbation  ; 
and,  on  confirmation  arriving  on  Monday,  set  out  that 
night.*  It  seems  the  islanders,  besides  provoking  France 
by  their  privateers  and  numerous  captures,  had  impru- 
dently advertised  a  sale,  in  August  next,  of  prizes,  to 
the  amount  of  a  vast  sum,  which  would  have  been  a 
kingdom  indeed  to  a  little  necessitous  Prince.  He  col- 
lected a  small  army  of  vagabonds,  like  his  predecessor 
Romulus ;  but  who  had  so  little  taste  for  the  adven- 
ture when  its  destination  was  known,  that  he  was 
forced  to  select  fifty  men  from  his  more  regular  regi- 
ment to  defend  his  person  against  the  companions  of 
his  armament.  It  happened  that  Admiral  Arbuthnot, 
who  was  going  to  convoy  four  thousand  recruits  to 
America,   had   been    detained,    though    probably   the 

*  Gibbon,  in  a  letter  of  the  7th  to  Mr.  Holroyd,  says,  "  You  have 
heard  of  the  Jersey  invasion  :  everybody  praises  Arbuthnot's  decided 
spirit.    Conway  went  last  night  to  throw  himself  into  the  island." — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  147 

French  thought  him  sailed  ;  and,  hearing  of  the  inva- 
sion, immediately  sailed  to  Jersey,  without  staying  for 
orders.  The  attack,  however,  had  been  made  on  the 
1st  of  the  month  :  the  French  had  attempted  to  land, 
but  Lord  Seaforth's  new-raised  regiment  of  seven  hun- 
dred Highlanders,  assisted  by  some  militia  and  some  ar- 
tillery, made  a  brave  stand  and  repelled  the  intruders  ; 
and,  as  every  Nassau*  does  not  conquer  a  British 
island  merely  by  his  presence,  the  visionary  Monarch 
sailed  back  to  France  on  the  2nd,  and  King  George  and 
Viceroy  Conway  remain  Sovereign  of  Jersey — whom 
God  long  preserve  ! 

We  heard  of  the  repulse  on  Thursday ;  but  it  was 
not  till  late  in  the  night  of  Friday  that  an  account 
came  of  the  retreat,  and  I  did  not  learn  it  till  Satur- 
day morning  ;  in  which  interval  there  seemed  to  be 
twice  eight-and-forty  hours,  and  yet  I  had  concluded 
that  the  French  would  be  retired  before  Mr.  Conway 
could  reach  his  dominions.  We  had  reports  of  the 
Brest  fleet  being  sailed,  and  this  little  episode  does 
look  like  a  feint.  Negotiation  is  said  to  be  at  an  end 
or  a  pause.  Arbuthnot's  activity,  though  greatly  com- 
mendable, is  a  detrimental  delay  ;  and  we  have  reason 
enough  to  expect  other  damage.  I  did  hint  to  you 
that  we  had  more  thorns  than  one  in  our  pillow  :  it  is 
now  too  publicly  known  to  be  disguised  any  longer, 
that  Ireland  has  much  the  air  of  Americanizing.  Our 
oppressive    partiality  to  two  or  three    manufacturing 

*  The   Prince  of  Nassau,  who  commanded  the  attack   upon   Jersey, 
claimed  relationship  to  the  great  house  of  Nassau. — En. 

j,  2 


148  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

towns   in  England  has  revolted   the   Irish,  and   they 
have   entered   into   combinations   against    purchasing 
English  goods,  in  terms  more  offensive  than  the  first 
associations  of  the  Colonies.'""     In  short,  we  have  for 
four  or  five  years  displayed  no  alacrity  or  address,  but 
in  provoking  our  friends  and  furnishing  weapons  of  an- 
noyance  to  our   enemies;    and  the  unhappy  facility 
with  which  the  Parliament  has  subscribed  to  all  these 
oversights  has  deceived  the  Government  into  security, 
and  encouraged  it  to  pull  almost  the  whole  fabric  on 
its  own  head.     We  can  escape  but  by  concessions  and 
disgrace  ;  and,  when  we  attain  peace,  the  terms  will 
prove  that  Parliamentary  majorities  have  voted  away 
the  wisdom,  glory,  and  power  of  the  nation. 

The  House  of  Commons  has  exposed  itself  wofully 
these  last  days  in  a  less  affair.  They  have  refused, 
voted,  unvoted,  and  revoted  an  inquiry  into  the  con- 
duct of  the  war;  and  all  the  Generals  at  the  bar  have 
declared  the  impossibility  of  conquering  America  :  so, 

*  "  When  the  people  of  Ireland,"  says  Hardy,  in  his  Memoirs  of  Lord 
Charlemont,  "  found  the  session  closed  in  England,  and  nothing  substantial 
accomplished,  they  did  not   fold  their   arms  in  foolish  despair.     They 
were  then  taught,  as  distress  will  indeed  effectually  teach  any  nation  or 
individual,  that  their  best  dependence  was  on  themselves.     They  had 
recourse  to  that   policy  which  Swift  had  in  vain  advised  half  a  century 
before.     They  not  only  used  their  own  manufactures,  hut  entered  into  a 
non-importation  agreement  of  any  whatever  from  England.     This  reso- 
lution was  embraced  with  the   usual  characteristic  ardour  of  the  Irish. 
The  despondency  of  the  manufacturers,  of  the  lowest  order,  was  changed 
to  thanksgiving  ;  some  of  the  fashionable  gentry,  who  had  been  more 
supine  than  others,  were  reanimated  to  a  sense  of  their  duty  ;  while  the 
volunteer  bands  increased  not  more  in  numbers  than  in  spirit."     Vol.  i. 
p.  389.— En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  149 

the  House  has  nothing   to  do  to  preserve  its  conse- 
quence, but  to  vote  it  shall  still  be  conquered. 

Palliser's  trial  has  ended  as  shamefully.*  He  is  ac- 
quitted, with  honour,  of  not  having  obeyed  his  Ad- 
miral's signals;  which  is  termed  blameable  for  not 
having  given  the  reason  why  he  did  not ;  and  that 
reason  was  the  rottenness  of  his  mast,  with  which  he 
returned  to  Portsmouth,  without  its  being  repaired 
yet.  The  world  is  expecting  his  restoration ;  for, 
when  Keppel  risked  his  own  reputation  to  save  Pal- 
liser's, ought  not  the  latter  to  be  recompensed  for 
accusing  his  benefactor  ?  But  I  am  sick  of  speci- 
fying all  our  ignominy  ;  I  wish  I  had  any  tittle-tattle 
of  less  consequence  to  fill  my  letters  with.  I  will  go 
answer  yours,  and  try  to  forget  England,  as  it  has 
forgotten  itself !  Oh !  but  you  ask  if  Byron  has 
beaten  D'Estaing  and  taken  Martinico  ?f  Not  quite  ; 
on  the  contrary,  our  conquerors  are  swept  away  by 

*  Sir  Hugh  Palliser's  trial  lasted  three-and-twenty  days,  twenty  of 
which  were  spent  in  examining  witnesses,  and  three  in  debating  upon  the 
sentence  ;  during  which  time  it  is  said  the  members  of  the  court  were 
sometimes  so  loud  in  dispute,  that  the  people  were  obliged  to  be  turned 
off  the  deck  of  the  Sandwich  to  prevent  their  overhearing  it.  In 
announcing  Sir  Hugh  Palliser's  acquittal  to  George  Selwyn,  Dr.  Warner 
writes,  "  Here  are  the  exact  and  all  the  words  which  the  King  said 
to  him  the  first  time  he  was  at  Court,  '  Sir  Hugh,  how  does  your  leg 
do?'"— Ed. 

t  Lord  Carlisle,  speaking  of  his  relation  the  Admiral,  in  a  letter  to 
George  Selwyn,  says,  "  Byron's  situation  is  a  very  hard  one  ;  for  ig- 
norant peojde  conceive  it  is  as  easy  to  hinder  D'Estaing  from  coming 
out  of  Martinique,  as  it  would  be  to  hinder  the  Duke  of  Northumberland 
driving  out  of  his  gate,  supposing  you  were  superior  in  coal-carts  and 
hackney-coaches  to  make  a  blockade." — Ed. 


150  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

a  mortality  in  Santa  Lucia  and  in  Georgia.     Content 
yourself  with  privateering  ;  we  have  no  other  success. 

The  Presbyterians  of  Scotland  will  not  condole  with 
you  on  the  Pope's  illness ;  they  forswear  him  tooth 
and  nail.""  Mrs.  Anne  Pitt  is  confined,  and,  the  last 
time  I  heard  of  her,  was  very  bad.  Make  many  com- 
pliments, pray,  for  me  to  the  House  of  Lucan  ;  but, 
between  you  and  me,  I  am  not  at  all  delighted  with 
their  intending  to  bring  me  a  present.  I  do  not  love 
presents,  and  much  less  from  anybody  but  very  dear 
friends.  That  family  and  I  are  upon  very  civil  terms; 
our  acquaintance  is  of  modern  date,  and  rather  waned 
than  improved.  Lady  Lucan  has  an  astonishing  genius 
for  copying  whatever  she  sees.f  The  pictures  I  lent  her 
from  my  collection,  and  some  advice  I  gave  her,  cer- 
tainly brought  her  talent  to  marvellous  perfection  in 

*  Walpole  here  alludes  to  a  motion  made  on  the  5th  of  this  month  by 
Lord  George  Gordon,  that  a  petition  of  the  Papists  of  Scotland,  which  had 
been  recommended  by  the  King  to  the  House  through  Lord  North,  might 
be  thrown  over  the  table.  As  the  motion  was  not  seconded,  the  Speaker 
declined  to  read  it.  The  Earl  of  Carlisle  says,  in  a  letter  of  the  7th, 
"  Lord  George  Gordon  made  a  speech  upon  the  state  of  Scotland,  for 
which  he  ought  to  be  shut  up ;  he  wept  several  times  in  the  course  of  it, 
produced  an  old  print  of  the  Marquis  of  Huntley,  offered  to  make  Lord 
North  a  present  of  it,  and  called  upon  twenty  members  by  their  names." 
—En. 

t  Lady  Lucan  was  the  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  James  Smith,  Esq., 
of  Cannons  Leigh,  Devon.  She  was  married,  in  1760,  to  Sir  Charles 
Bingham,  who,  in  1776,  was  created  Baron  Lucan,  and,  in  1795,  ad- 
vanced to  the  earldom  of  Lucan.  In  1781,  her  daughter  Lavinia  was 
married  to  John,  first  Earl  Spencer.  She  died  in  1814.  In  a  notice  of 
Walpole's  "  Anecdotes  of  Painting,"  which  appeared  in  the  Annual 
Register  for  1780,  Lady  Lucan  is  said  to  have  arrived  at  copying  the 
most  exquisite  works  of  Peter  Oliver,  Hoskins,  and  Cooper,  with  a 
genius  that  almost  depreciate?  those  masters." — Ei>. 


TO   SIR    HORACE   MANN.  151 

five  months  ;  for  before,  .she  painted  in  crayons,  an<l 
as  ill  as  any  line  lady  in  England.  She  models  in 
wax,  and  has  something  of  a  turn  towards  poetry  ; 
but  her  prodigious  vivacity  makes  her  too  volatile 
in  everything,  and  my  lord  follows  wherever  she 
leads.  This  is  only  for  your  private  ear.  I  desire 
to  remain  as  well  as  I  am  with  them ;  but  we  shall 
never  be  more  intimate  than  we  are.  I  am  not  at 
all  acquainted  with  your  Lord  Bishop  *  and  my 
lady,  his  wife.  His  mother,  who  was  much  my 
friend,  I  believe,  did  not  highly  reverence  his  sin- 
cerity ;  I  never  in  my  life  met  him  at  her  house. 

*  The  Honourable  and  Reverend  Frederick  Hervey,  in  1767  presented 
to  the  bishoprick  of  Cloyne,  and  in  1769  promoted  to  the  see  of  Deny. 
In  the  December  of  1779,  he  succeeded  his  brother  Augustus  as  fourth 
Earl  of  Bristol.  His  wife  was  the  daughter  of  Sir  Jermyn  Davers,  Bart. 
Hardy,  in  his  Memoirs  of  the  Earl  of  Charlemont,  gives  the  following 
striking  account  of  this  eccentric  nobleman  :  "  In  one  respect  he  was  not 
unlike  Villiers,  Duke  of  Buckingham,  'Everything  by  starts  and  nothing 
long.'  Generous,  but  uncertain  ;  splendid,  but  fantastical  ;  an  admirer  of 
the  fine  arts,  without  any  just  selection  ;  engaging,  often  licentious  in  con- 
versation ;  extremely  polite,  extremely  violent.  His  distribution  of 
church  livings  must  always  be  mentioned  with  warm  approbation. 
Though  he  scarcely  ever  attended  Parliament,  and  spent  most  of  his 
time  in  Italy,  he  was  now  (1783)  called  upon  to  correct  the  abuses  of 
Parliament,  and  direct  the  vessel  of  state  in  that  course,  where  states- 
men of  the  most  experience,  and  persons  of  the  calmest  judgment,  have 
had  the  misfortune  totally  to  fail.  His  progress  from  his  diocese  to  the  me- 
tropolis, and  his  entrance  into  it,  were  perfectly  correspondent  to  the  rest 
of  his  conduct.  Through  every  town  on  the  road  he  seemed  to  court,  and 
was  received  with,  all  warlike  honours  ;  and  I  remember  seeing  him  pass 
by  the  Parliament-house  in  Dublin,  (Lords  and  Commons  were  then  both 
sitting)  escorted  by  a  body  of  dragoons,  full  of  spirits  and  talk,  apparently 
enjoying  the  eager  gaze  of  the  surrounding  multitude,  and  displaying  al- 
together the  self-complacency  of  a  favourite  Marshal  of  France  on  his 
way  to  Versailles,  rather  than  the  grave  deportment  of  a  Prelate  of  the 
Church  of  England." — Ed. 


152  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Adieu !  my  dear  sir.  Do  not  let  rumours,  good  or 
bad,  agitate  you.  Bear  public  misfortunes  with  firm- 
ness. Private  griefs  hurry  away  our  thoughts,  and 
belong  solely  to  ourselves  ;  but  we  may  be  excused 
taking  more  than  our  share  in  general  calamities. 


LETTER  CCCVI. 

Arlington  Street,  May  29,  1779. 

I  have  two  letters  from  you  unanswered  of  the 
14th  and  15th  of  this  month.     I  begin  to  reply  to 
them  ;  though  I  believe  my  response  will  not  set  out 
before  June  for  want  of  corporality.     The  best  news 
I  know  is  what  you  tell  me  of  the  Spanish  Monarch's 
resolution  of  remaining  neuter.     We  seem  able  to  cope 
with   France,   who  makes  war  in   our  own   piddling 
style.     We  both  fish  for  islets   that   used   to  escape 
through    the    meshes    of   former    military   drag-nets. 
Some  attempt  on  Ireland  we  expect ;  I  hope  the  Prince 
of  Nassau  will  command  it.     All  this  last  week  we 
were  whispered   ministerially  into  a  belief  of  Byron 
having  demolished,  taken,  and   killed  D'Estaing   and 
all   his   squadron.      Some    doubted   whether    it   was 
not  an  artifice  to  fill  the  loan  ;  and  so  it  has  proved. 
The  two  Admirals  looked  at  one  another,  but  did  not 
hurt  a  pendant  of  each  other's  head.     The  House  of 
Commons  sits  from  day  to  day,  examining  into  the  con- 
duct of  all  the  other  Generals  and  Admirals  that  have 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  153 

been  looking  at  the  Americans  and  French  for  these 
five  years,  and  of  the  Ministers  who  sent  them  to  look 
the  Colonies  into  unlimited  submission.  Future  his- 
torians will  have  a  brave  collection  of  papers  to 
revel  in. 

You  shall  certainly  have  my  tragedy  *  when  your 
nephew  returns  ;  but  I  doubt  it  will  shock  more 
than  please  you,  for  nothing  can  be  more  disgusting 
than  the  subject.  I  approve  and  exhort  you  not  to 
preach  to  your  nephew.  Wait  till  you  see  him,  and 
then  you  can  instil  your  sentiments  by  degrees.  As 
he  has  already  corrected  many  effervescences,  I  trust 
to  his  good  sense  and  good  heart  for  his  still  im- 
proving ;  but,  believe  me,  there  must  be  a  very  solid 
fund  to  resist  the  depravation  of  this  country.  It 
is  lost,  it  is  distracted.  It  sinks  every  day,  and  yet 
its  extravagance  and  dissipation  rather  augment  than 
subside.  Though  we  have  danced  like  Bacchanals 
all  the  winter,  there  is  a  new  subscription  on  foot 
for  a  sumptuous  ball  at  the  Pantheon.  We  are  like 
the  Israelites  that  capered  round  the  golden  calf, 
though  they  were  to  fight  their  way  out  of  the  De- 
sert. I  check  my  hand  ;  it  is  grievous  to  condemn 
one's  country !  I  ask  myself,  if  I  am  not  grown  old 
and  splenetic  ;  but  alas  !  America  is  lost,  credit  sup- 
ported by  gross  falsehoods,  all  comfort  hanging  on 
a  King  of  Spain's  mood  :  one  had  need  be  very 
young  to  dance  without  reflection  ! . 

*  The  Mysterious  Mother. 


154  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

May  31st. 

I  must  finish  my  letter  to-night,  for  I  go  out  of  town 
to-morrow  for  the  summer,  and  leave  the  Parliament  to 
give  balls  or  supplies  as  it  pleases.  Lord  Cornwallis 
sails  to-daj  to  command  America,  but  the  fleet  is  not 
yet  gone.  I  remember,  when  I  was  a  boy,  hearing  that 
it  had  been  a  great  joke  in  Queen  Anne's  war,  that 
Lord  Peterborough  *  was  galloping  about  in  Spain  in- 
quiring for  his  army — Lord  Cornwallis  will  have  none 
to  hunt  for. 

The  old  Duke  of  Rutland  is  dead,  at  eighty-four.  I 
think  he  had  been  Knight  of  the  Garter  above  fifty 
years. 

The  Irish  do  not  grow  into  better  humourf — I  know 

*  Charles  Mordaunt,  Earl  of  Peterborough,  who,  in  1705,  took  Bar- 
celona, and  in  the  following  winter,  with  only  280  horse  and  900  foot, 
enterprised  and  accomplished  the  conquest  of  Valentia.  Walpole,  in  his 
Royal  and  Noble  Authors,  describes  him  as  having  been  "  gallant  as 
Amadis,  and  as  brave,  but  a  little  more  expeditious  in  bis  journeys  ;  for 
he  is  said  to  have  seen  more  kings  and  more  postilions  than  any  man  in 
Europe."  In  the  latter  part  of  his  life  he  was  the  intimate  friend  and 
companion  of  Pope — 

"  Know,  all  the  distant  din  that  world  can  keep 
Rolls  o'er  my  Grotto,  and  but  soothes  my  sleep  ; 
There,  my  retreat  the  best  companions  grace, 
Chiefs  out  of  war,  and  statesmen  out  of  place. 
There  St.  John  mingles  with  my  friendly  bowl 
The  feast  of  reason  and  the  flow  of  soul  ; 
And  He,  whose  lightning  piere'd  th'  Iberian  lines, 
Now  forms  my  quincunx,  and  now  ranks  my  vines, 
Or  tames  the  Genius  of  the  stubborn  plain, 
Almost  as  quickly  as  he  conquer'd  Spain." — Ed. 

t  In  a  letter  of  the  3rd  of  June  to  Selwyn,  Dr.  Warner  says,  "  The 
increase  of  secret  armed  associations  tbroughout  Ireland,  the  non-import- 
ation agreement,  and  the  success  which  attended  the  intrigues  of  the 
American  agents  in  their  endeavours  to  stir  up  an  inflammable  and   de- 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  155 

nothing  that  is  improved  but  our  climate — so,  I  hope 
we  shall  preserve  this  part  of  the  island  at  least. 

P.S.  Do  not  expect  me  to  be  so  assiduous  in  sum- 
mer as  I  have  been  of  late ;  nay,  you  may  wish  I  should 
have  no  occasion  to  be  so. 


LETTER  CCCVII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  June  16,  1779. 

Alas  !  my  dear  sir,  you  have  been  mistaken,  and 
must  no  more  put  your  trust  in  the  obstinacy  of 
Princes :  at  least,  that  of  one  can  surmount  that  of  an- 
other. The  King  of  Spain's  rescript  is  arrived  and  de- 
livered, and  the  Brest  fleet  is  sailed  with  both  white 
and  red  cockades.  The  declaration  is  said  not  to  be 
very  injurious ;  but,  after  all  possible  endeavours  at  paci- 
fication, his  Catholic  Majesty  is  obliged  to  take  his 
part,  especially  as  we  have  made  some  captures  on  his 
subjects.  The  Ministers  were  urged  even  late  last 
night""  on  the  hostility  of  Spain,  but  would  own  nothing. 
This  morning  they  avow  everything ;  and,  to  your 
great  surprise  probably,  the  Parliament  is  to  rise  to- 
morrow or  next  day  !  As  events  have  not  proved  the 
wisdom  of  measures,  one  can  collect  no  great  confidence 
from  such  a  step  :  but  I  don't  pretend  to  reason  on 

pressed  people,  were  sufficient  to  justify  the  alarm  of  the  ministry  and 
the  people  at  large,  and  to  threaten  to  add  the  misfortune  of  a  civil  war 
in  Ireland  to  the  hazardous  and  momentous  contests  in  which  England 
was  already  engaged  with  France,  Spain,  and  America." — En. 

*  In  the  course  of  the  debate  on   Mr.  Thomas  Townshend's  motion 
for  an  address  to  the  King  to  defer  the  prorogation. — Ed. 


156  THE   HON.   HORACE  WALPOLE 

what  I  do  not  understand  ;  my  business  is  to  tell  you 
facts.  In  short,  the  Brest  fleet  has  been  sailed  many 
days.  The  Prince  of  Beauvau* — if  destined  for  Ireland, 
we  should  probably  have  heard  it  by  this  time  ;  if  to 
meet  the  Spanish  fleet,  the  object  might  be  Gibraltar,  f 

I  shall  not  boast  of  having  been  a  better  soothsayer 
than  you,  when  I  foretold  that  the  American  war  would 
not  be  of  short  duration.  It  is  a  triste  honour  to  be 
verified  a  prophet  of  woes.  Were  I  vain  of  the  charac- 
ter, a  Spanish  war,  added  to  an  American  one,  were  a 
fine  field  ;  but  I  do  not  ambition  being  a  Jeremiah, 
though  my  countrymen  are  so  like  the  Jews.  Nor 
does  it  require  inspiration  to  prophesy,  when  one  has 
nothing  to  do  but  to  calculate.  Were  you  here,  you  would 
not  be  alarmed.  You  would  see  no  panic  ;  you  would 
hear  of  nothing  but  diversions.  The  Ministers  affirm 
the  majority  of  America  is  with  us,  and  it  is  credited. 
Were  they  to  tell  us  half  the  Spanish  fleet  would  come 
over  to  us,  it  would  be  credited  too.  When  it  does 
not,  perhaps  they  will  tell  us  it  has. — Well !  what  is 
most  to  be  dreaded  is  the  dissipation  of  our  delusion. 
When  the  rtveil  comes,  it  will  be  serious  indeed  ! 

You  see  I  am  not  likely  to  be  barren  of  matter,  and 
you  will  be  sorry  that  I  write  oftener  than  I  foresaw. 
The  middle  period  of  our  correspondence  was  the  most 
agreeable.  Its  early  part  was  the  journal  of  a  civil 
war,  and  of  no  glorious  one  in  Flanders.    Fifteen  years 

*  He  did  not  go. 

t  The  French  fleet,  consisting  of  about  twenty-eight  sail  of  the  line, 
under  the  command  of  M.  D'On  illicrs,  sailed  from  Brest  on  the  4th  of 
June.— Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  157 

after,  I  sent  you  victory  upon  victory,  and  conquest 
upon  conquest.  For  the  last  five  years,  my  letters  have 
been  the  records  of  a  mouldering  empire.  What  is  now 
to  come  I  know  not :  we  have,  they  say,  maintained 
ourselves  against  France  and  Spain  ;  true,  but  with  the 
trifling  difference  of  having  America  in  our  scale — now 
it  is  in  theirs.  We  had  too  a  Lord  Chatham  ;  who  docs 
not  seem  to  have  been  replaced. 

I  tell  you  nothing  of  Parliamentary  debates,  for  I 
really  do  not  attend  to  them;  especially  not  to  the  de- 
tails of  the  war,  and  the  conduct  of  the  Generals,  who 
have  made  a  very  silly  figure.  There  are  far  mightier 
objects  in  question  than  speeches  and  votes,  and  which 
I  must  learn  even  here,  quiet  and  abstracted  as  I  sit. 
My  consolation  is  that  I  have  no  particular  friend  re- 
sponsible for  anything  that  has  happened  ;  and,  when 
one's  passions  are  not  concerned,  an  individual  of  my 
age  must  have  learnt  to  look  on  the  great  drama  of  the 
world  with  some  indifference.  My  pride,  I  own,  made 
me  pleased  when  my  country  was  the  most  splendid  in 
Europe :  I  did  not  imagine  I  was  so  singular  as  I  find  I 
was,  or  we  should  not  have  run  wild  after  a  phantom 
of  absolute  power  over  a  country  whose  liberty  was  the 
source  of  our  greatness.  A  pretty  experiment  we  have 
made ;  and,  whenever  the  hour  of  peace  shall  arrive,  we 
shall  be  able  to  compute  what  it  has  cost  us  not  to 
compass  it. 

Methinks,  if  the  accounts  of  all  wars  were  to  be 
stated,  it  would  be  worth  ambition's  while  to  examine 
the  sum  total,  and  calculate  whether  the  object  aimed 


158  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

at  is  not  ten  thousand  times  too  dear.  I  doubt  I  must 
not  propose  examining  the  mere  cash  account.  The 
lives,  alas  !  go  for  nothing.  We  have  sent  fifty  thou- 
sand men  to  America,  and  recruits  !  How  many  will 
ever  return  1  And  where  are  all  the  children  that 
would  have  been  begotten  in  six  years  of  peace  1  Oh  ! 
and  now  here  is  a  new  account  to  be  opened ! 

These  would  be  called  at  present  the  gloomy  specu- 
lations of  a  solitary  man.  Posterity  would  think  there 
was  some  sense  in  them — and  yet  posterity  will  perhaps 
be  as  foolish  on  some  other  point.  We  condemn  the 
wars  of  the  Guelfs  and  Ghibellines,  and  do  not  conceive 
what  they  quarrelled  about ;  yet  we,  who  are  at  war 
with  France  and  Spain  because  we  would  not  be  con- 
tent to  let  America  send  us  half  the  wealth  of  the 
world  in  its  own  way,  shall  not  be  deemed  very  wise 
hereafter.  We  not  only  killed  the  hen  that  laid  a 
golden  egg  every  day,  but  must  defend  the  very  shop  at 
home  where  we  sold  our  eggs. — I  have  nothing  more  to 
say,  and  three  parts  of  England  do  not  yet  think  there 
is  a  word  of  sense  in  what  I  have  said  :  France  and 
Spain  know  there  is  ;  but  I  shall  not  canvass  for  their 
approbation. 


LETTER  CCCVIII. 


Strawberry  Hill,  June  30,  1779. 

This  letter  will  be  of  very  ancient  date  when  you 
receive  it,  and  not  have  one  very  near  it  perhaps  when 
it  sets  out.     Your  nephew  called  here  two  days  ago, 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  1  f>9 

just  as  I  was  going  to  town  on  business,  and  told  me, 
to  my  joy  on  your  account,  that  he  was  going  in  a 
fortnight  to  make  you  another  short  visit — a  very  me- 
ritorious one  when  the  journey  is  so  long.  lie  has  pro- 
mised to  come  and  dine  here  Ute-a-ttte  before  he  goes  ; 
but,  lest  he  should  surprise  me,  I  prepare  this,  which 
therefore  shall  not  contain  news  that  would  be  anti- 
quated, but  give  you  as  just  a  picture  as  I  can  in  few 
words  of  our  situation  and  prospect,  and  as  impartial 
one  as  I  can,  considering  my  indignation  at  the  ruin 
brought  upon  my  country  by  both  as  worthless  and  in- 
capable a  set  of  men  as  ever  had  the  front  to  call  them- 
selves politicians.  They  have  hurried  us,  and  then 
blundered  us,  into  a  civil  war,  a  French  war,  a  Spanish 
war.  America  is  lost ;  Jamaica,  the  West  Indian  islands, 
Gibraltar,  and  Port  Mahon,  are  scarcely  to  be  saved; 
Ireland  is  in  great  danger,  either  from  invasion  or  pro- 
vocation. Of  this  country  I  should  have  little  fear,  if 
men  who  conducted  themselves  so  wretchedly  were  not 
still  our  governors  !  We  are  at  this  instant  expecting 
a  sea-battle  between  our  fleet  and  the  united  one  of 
France  and  Spain  ;  in  which,  if  the  latter,  who  are 
the  stronger  by  a  matter  of  nine  ships,  have  the  decided 
advantage,  we  conclude  they  will  pour  in  troops,  consi- 
derably into  Ireland, — here  probably  in  less  detachments, 
to  distract  us.*  The  nation  is  not  so  much  alarmed  as 
might  be  expected.!    What  is  infinitely  more  astonish- 

*  The  French  and  Spanish  fleets  conjoined  made  a  tremendous  ap- 
pearance ;  amounting  to  between  sixty  and  seventy  line-of-battle  ships, 
besides  a  cloud  of  frigates  and  fire-ships. — En. 

t  "  I  never,"  writes  Lord  Carlisle  to  Selwyn  on  the  18th,  "  saw  less 


1G0  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

ing  is,  that  the  Spanish  war,  on  which  the  Ministers 
lulled  the  country  asleep  even  till  hvo  days  before  the 
declaration,  has  not  excited  general,  scarcely  any,  indig- 
nation against  the  criminals.  In  short,  the  Court,  aided 
by  the  Tories  and  clergy,  the  worst  Tories,  have  infatu- 
ated the  nation  ;  and  though  the  Opposition  have 
yearly,  daily,  hourly,  laboured  to  prevent,  and  foretold 
every  individual  step  that  has  happened,  the  money  of 
the  Treasury,  the  industry  of  the  Scotch,  and  the  ran- 
cour of  the  Tories  have  persuaded  the  majority  of  the 
people  that  the  Opposition  have  almost  conjured  up  the 
storm  ;  though  they  have  not  been  strong  enough  to 
carry  a  single  question,  have  deprecated  every  measure 
pursued,  and  have  had  every  one  of  their  prophecies  veri- 
fied.— I,  who  affirm  all  this,  and  appeal  to  facts,  am  still 
not  partial  to  the  Opposition.  So  far  from  thinking 
they  have  gone  too  far,  I  know  they  have  been  too 
inert,  and,  early  at  least  in  the  American  war,  might 
have  stemmed  some  of  the  torrent.  Yet  I  will  do 
them  justice, — the  fairness  of  their  characters  checked 
them  ;  a  less  conscientious  Opposition  might  have  saved 
the  nation. 

In  this  predicament  then  we  stand  ;  a  good  man 
scarcely  knows  what  to  wish.  New  misfortunes  would 
level  us  to  the  dust.     Success  in  such  hands  as  we 

despondency  and  more  spirit  manifested  in  a  difficult  moment  than  at  the 
present.  We  have  voted  unanimous  addresses  of  lives  and  fortunes. 
We  are  in  earnest,  and  shall  sell  ourselves  very  dear.  A  single  vote 
doubles  the  militia,  and  gives  the  Government  credit  and  money,  to  re- 
sist every  attack  that  may  he  made  from  any  quarter.  Spirit  and  deci- 
sion must  govern  our  measures.  The  people  are  awake,  and  seem  willing 
to  facilitate  any  measures  that  have  spirit  and  decision." — Ed. 


TO  SIR   HORACE   MANN.  101 

are  in,  would  blow  them  up  to  the  acme  of  insolence  ; 
and,  as  the  whole  scope  of  all  our  errors  was  despot  ism, 
it  is  greatly  to  be  feared  that,  with  the  loss  of  our 
outlying  dominions,  our  trade,  influence,  and  credit, 
we  might  lose  our  freedom  too. 

There  is  the  true  secret.  Prerogative  has  been 
whispered  into  the  nation's  ear,  and  taken  root.  The 
Tories  scruple  not  to  call  for  it.  The  Ministers, 
worthless  and  incapable  wretches,  and  ill- connected 
with  each  other,  and  cohering  from  common  danger, 
have  little  or  no  credit  with  their  Master ;  and,  no  one 
being  predominant,  no  particular  odium  rests  on  any 
one.  Thus,  though  I  am  persuaded  almost  every  one 
condemns  the  measures  he  promotes,  and  must  have  fore- 
seen the  precipice,  not  one  has  had  the  honest  courage 
to  withstand  the  Spanish  war;  which  I  firmly  believe 
was  by  no  means  the  Spanish  King's  intention,  but 
turned  solely  on  the  refusal  of  the  Closet  to  relinquish 
American  dependence.  Everything  has  been  risked 
rather  than  waive  prerogative  ;  and  so  abandoned  are 
the  higher  orders,  that,  for  the  emolument  of  salaries, 
they  have  staked  their  children  and  the  future  security 
of  their  estates  ! 

Our  late  prodigious  wealth,  and  our  dissipation,  have 
concurred  to  facilitate  this  delusion.  We  have  excel- 
lent orators  both  in  the  Administration  and  Opposition, 
but  no  great  man ;  and  few,  very  few,  virtuous  men, 
even  in  the  latter ;  who,  though  impudently  charged 
still  with  acting  from  interested  motives,  have  over  and 
over  rejected  every  offer  of  advantage.     I  mean,  per- 

VOL.  III. NEW    SERIES.  M 


162  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

sonally.  Anything  would  have  been  granted  to  divide 
them.  You  will  say,  good  sense,  not  integrity,  checked 
their  acceptance.  Perhaps  so :  yet,  as  the  Court 
would  never  have  changed  its  system,  nor  would  part 
with  the  lead ;  it  is  plain  the  Opposition  did  not  at- 
tend to  individual  lucre,  as  every  Minister  had  been 
gained  by  it.  I  believe  that  neither  Lord  Rockingham 
nor  Lord  Shelburne  would  be  content  without  being 
first  Minister;  but  honesty  must  have  been  the  motive 
of  the  rest. 

This,  though  short,  is  a  comprehensive  abstract  of 
my  ideas  on  our  situation.  I  cannot  j>recisely  say 
what  I  wish;  because  I  cannot  decide  between  con- 
tradictions, nor  can  expect  that  miracles  should  dove- 
tail themselves  in  such  a  manner,  as,  by  intersecting 
one  another,  to  form  a  compact  establishment.  Thus 
my  fears  and  hopes  are  suspended,  and  I  sit  with 
folded  arms  waiting  events.  It  would  be  idle  and 
impertinent  to  say  this  but  to  you,  my  dear  sir,  who 
wish  to  know  my  opinion,  when  I  could  speak  it  fairly 
and  triity.  I  have  done  so  most  religiously  ;  I  firmly 
believe  every  tittle  I  have  uttered.  Never  have  I  de- 
ceived you  knowingly.  I  mean,  when  I  have  written 
by  a  safe  hand— by  the  post,  one  colours  over  some 
things,  even  because  one's  letters  may  be  opened  by 
foreign  enemies :  but  I  have  ever  been  rather  too 
frank  for  my  own  interest,  and  have  never  talked 
seriously  contrary  to  my  opinion,  though  I  may  not 
have  uttered  it  fully.  I  wish  you  to  return  me  this 
letter  by  your  nephew  :  it  is  too  explicit  to  be  exposed 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  16*3 

to  any  hazard  of  publication,  and  is  impartial  enough 
to  please  no  set  of  men  upon  earth. 

Pray  send  me  back  by  your  nephew  what  other 
letters,  too,  you  have  of  mine.  On  perusing  the  whole 
series,  I  can  safely  repeat,  that,  as  far  as  I  knew  at  the 
time,  I  have  never  given  you  false  information,  nor 
acted  sentiments  which  you  afterwards  found  had  not 
been  mine  ;  but,  as  my  life  has  been  uniform  to  its 
first  and  only  principles,  it  was  not  likely  that  I  should 
go  farther  than  being  prudent  (not  the  colour  of  my 
character),  and,  had  I  talked  differently,  my  conduct 
at  the  very  time  would  have  contradicted  my  as- 
sertions. 


LETTER  CCCIX. 

Strawberry  Hill,  July  7,  1779. 

How  much  larger  the  war  will  be  for  the  ad- 
dition of  Spain,  I  do  not  know.  Hitherto  it  has 
produced  no  events  but  the  shutting  of  our  ports 
against  France,  and  the  junction  of  nine  ships  from 
Ferrol  with  the  French  squadron.  They  talk  of  a 
great  navy  getting  ready  at  Cadiz,  and  of  mighty  pre- 
parations in  the  ports  of  .France  for  an  embarkation. 
As  all  this  must  have  been  foreseen,  I  suppose  we  are 
ready  to  resist  all  attacks. 

The  Parliament  rose  last  Saturday,  not  without  an 
open  division  in  the  Ministry  :  Lord  Gower,  President 
of  the  Council,  heading  an  opposition  to  a  bill  for 
doubling  the  Militia,  which  had  passed  the  Commons, 

M    2 


164  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

and  throwing  it  out ;  Avhich  Lord  North  as  publicly 
resented.     I  make  no  comments   on    this,  because  I 
really  know  nothing  of  the  motives.     Thoroughly  con- 
vinced that  all  my  ideas  are  superannuated,  and  too 
old  to  learn  new  lessons,  I  only  hear  what  passes,  pre- 
tend to  understanding  nothing,  and  wait  patiently  for 
events  as  they  present  themselves.     I  listen  enough 
to    be    able    to    acquaint   you   with    facts   of  public 
notoriety ;   but  attempt  to  explain  none  of  them,  if 
they  do  not  carry  legibility  in  the  van.    Your  nephew, 
who  lives  more  in  the  world,  and  is  coming  to  you, 
will  be  far  more  master  of  the  details.     He  called  here 
some  few  days  ago,  as  I  was  going  out  to  dinner,  but 
has  kindly  promised  to  come  and  dine  here  before  he 
sets  out.     His  journey  is  infinitely  commendable,  as 
entirely  undertaken  to  please  you.     It  will  be  very 
comfortable  too,   as  surely  the  concourse   of  English 
must  much  abate,  especially  as  France  is  interdicted. 
Travelling  boys  and  self-sufficient  governors  would  be 
an  incumbrance  to  you,  could  you  see  more  of  your 
countrymen   of  more   satisfactory   conversation.      Flo- 
rence probably  is  improved  since  it  had  a  Court  of  its 
own,  and  there  must  be  men  a  little  more  enlightened 
than  the  poor  Italians.     Scarcely  any  of  the  latter  that 
ever  I  knew  but,  if  they  had  parts,  were  buffoons.     I 
believe  the  boasted  finesse   of  the   ruling   clergy   is 
pretty  much  a  traditionary  notion,  like  their  jealousy. 
More  nations  than  one  live  on  former  characters  after 
they  are   totally  changed.      I  have   been  often  and 
much  in  France.     In  the  provinces  they  may  still  be 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  1G5 

gay  and  lively  ;  but  at  Paris,  bating  the  pert  (Hour- 
dene  of  very  young  men,  I  protest  I  scarcely  ever  saw 
anvil  ling  like  vivacity — the  Due  dc  Choiseul  alone  had 
more  than  any  hundred  Frenchmen  I  could  select. 
Their  women  are  the  first  in  the  world  in  everything 
but  beauty ;  sensible,  agreeable,  and  infinitely  in- 
formed. The  philosophes,  except  Buffon,  are  solemn, 
arrogant,  dictatorial  coxcombs — I  need  not  say  super- 
latively disagreeable.  The  rest  are  amazingly  ignorant 
in  general,  and  void  of  all  conversation  but  the  routine 
with  women.  My  dear  and  very  old  friend*  is  a  relic 
of  a  better  age,  and  at  nearly  eighty-four  has  all  the 
impetuosity  that  was  the  character  of  the  French. 
They  have  not  found  out,  I  believe,  how  much  their 
nation  is  sunk  in  Europe  ; — probably  the  Goths  and 
Vandals  of  the  North  will  open  their  eyes  before  a 
century  is  past.  I  speak  of  the  swarming  empires 
that  have  conglomerated  within  our  memories.  We 
dispelled  the  vision  twenty  years  ago  :  but  let  us  be 
modest  till  we  do  so  again. 

I  just  now  receive  two  letters  from  you  at  once,, 
which  I  suppose  came  by  Mrs.  Pitt's  messenger,  with 
Sir  William  Hamilton's  assurances  of  the  good  dispo- 
sition of  the  King  of  Spain  :  but  they  have  proved 
as  vain  as  the  letters  to  the  Grand-Duchess  ;  yet  I 
still  think  we  might  have  kept  him  in  temper  if  we 
had  so  pleased. 

9th. 

The  Duke  of  Ancaster  is  dead  of  a  scarlet  fever 

*  Madame  du  Dcffand. 


166  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

contracted  by  drinking  and  rioting,  at  two-and-twenty. 
He  was  in  love  witli  my  niece  Lady  Horatia,  the 
Duchess's  third  daughter,  and  intended  to  marry  her- 
She  is  a  beautiful  girl,  like  her  mother,  though  not 
of  so  sublime  a  style  of  beauty.  I  much  doubt  whe- 
ther she  would  have  been  happy  with  him ;  for,  though 
he  had  some  excellent  qualities,  he  was  of  a  turbulent 
nature,  and,  though  of  a  fine  figure,  his  manners  were 
not  noble.""  Fortune  seems  to  have  removed  him,  to 
complete  her  magnificent  bounties  to  one  family.  Do 
you  remember  old  Peter  Burrell,  who  was  attached  to 
my  father  %  His  eldest  grand-daughter  is  married  to 
a  Mr.  Bennet,  a  man  of  large  estate  ;  the  second,  to 
Lord  Algernon  Percy  ;  the  third,  to  Lord  Percy ;  and 
the  youngest,  the  only  one  at  all  pretty,  to  Duke 
Hamilton.  Lady  Priscilla  Elizabeth  Bertie,  eldest  sister 
of  the  Duke  of  Ancaster,  fell  in  love  with  their  brother, 
and  would  marry  him,  not  at  all  at  his  desire  ;  but  her 
father,  the  Duke  of  Ancaster,  had  entailed  his  whole 
estate  on  his  two  daughters,  after  his  son,  to  the  total 
disinherison  of  his  brother  Lord  Brownlowe,  the  present 
Duke  ; — and  the  grandson  of  Peter  Burrell,  a  broken 
merchant,  is  husband  of  the  Lady  Great  Chamberlain 
of  England,  with  a  barony  and  half  the  Ancaster 
estate.     Old  Madam  Peter  is  living,  to  behold  all  this 

*  During  the  rejoicings  for  the  acquittal  of  Admiral  Keppel  in  the 
preceding  Fehruary,  the  youthful  Duke  was  taken  amongst  the  rioters, 
and  passed  the  night  in  the  watch-house.  The  most  amiahle  and  engag- 
ing manners  were  nevertheless  said  to  have  distinguished  his  private  life, 
and  the  expectations  of  his  country  were  raised  high  from  the  experience 
which  the  short  period  of  his  public  conduct  had  given. — See  Life  of 
Keppel,  vol.  ii.  p.  192.— En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  107 

deluge  of  wealth  and  honours  on  her  rare.  The 
Duchesses  of  Ancaster  have  not  been  less  singular. 
The  three  last  were  never  sober.  The  present  Duchess 
Dowager  was  natural  daughter  of  Panton,  a  disreputa- 
ble horse-jockey  of  Newmarket  ;  and  the  new  Duchess 
was  some  lady's  woman,  or  young  lady's  governess. 
Fortune  was  in  her  most  jocular  moods  when  she 
made  all  these  matches,  or  had  a  mind  to  torment 
the  Heralds'  office/"' 

litli. 

Last  night  I  received  from  town  the  medal  you 
promised  me  on  the  Moorish  alliance.f  It  is  at  least 
as  magnificent  as  the  occasion  required,  and  yet  not 
well  executed.  The  medallist  Siriez,  I  conclude,  is 
grandson  of  my  old  acquaintance  Louis  Siriez  J  of  the 
Palazzo  Vecchio. 

Yesterday's  Gazette  issued  a  proclamation  on  the 
expected  invasion  from  Havre,  where  they  are  embark- 
ing mightily. §  Some  think  the  attempt  will  be  on 
Portsmouth.  To  sweeten  this  pill,  Clinton  has  taken 
a  fort  and  seventy  men — not  near  Portsmouth,  but 
New  York  ;  and  there  were  reports  at  the  latter  that 

*  For  an  extended  notice  of  the  Burrcll  family,  see  Wraxall's  Posthu- 
mous Historical  Memoirs,  vol.  i.  p.  21. — Ed. 

t  Between  the  Great-Duke  of  Tuscany  and  the  Emperor  of  Morocco. 

J  A  French  silversmith  settled  at  Florence. 

§  D'Orvillicrs,  having  effected  a  junction  with  the  Spanish  fleet,  and 
appeared  off  Plymouth  with  sixty  sail  of  the  line,  a  proclamation  was 
issued  on  the  9th  of  July,  commanding  all  horses  and  cattle  to  be  driven 
from  the  coast.  Great  consternation  prevailed  along  the  whole  line  of 
the  coast,  and  many  who  had  the  means  withdrew  into  the  interior. 
—Ed. 


108  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Charlestowu  is  likely  to  surrender.  This  would  be 
something,  if  there  were  not  a  French  war  and  a  Spanish 
war  in  the  way  between  us  and  Carolina.  Sir  Charles 
Hardy  is  at  Torbay  with  the  whole  fleet,  which  per- 
haps was  not  part  of  the  plan  at  Havre  :  we  shall  see, 
and  you  shall  hear,  if  anything  passes. 

Friday  night,  July  16th. 

Your  nephew  has  sent  me  word  that  he  will  break- 
fast with  me  to-morrow,  but  shall  not  have  time  to 
dine.  I  have  nothing  to  add  to  the  foregoing  general 
picture.  We  have  been  bidden  even  by  proclamation 
to  expect  an  invasion,  and  troops  and  provisions  have 
for  this  week  been  said  to  be  embarked.  Still  I  do 
not  much  expect  a  serious  descent.  The  French,  I 
think,  have  better  chances  with  less  risk.  They  may 
ruin  us  in  detail.  The  fleet  is  at  present  at  home  or 
very  near,  and  very  strong ;  nor  do  I  think  that  the 
French  plan  is  activity  : — but  it  is  idle  to  talk  of  the 
present  moment,  when  it  will  be  some  time  before 
you  receive  this.  I  am  infinitely  in  more  pain  about 
Mr.  Conway,  who  is  in  the  midst  of  the  storm  in  a 
nutshell,  and  I  know  will  defend  himself  as  if  he  was 
in  the  strongest  fortification  in  Flanders — and,  which 
is  as  bad,  I  believe  the  Court  would  sacrifice  the  is- 
land to  sacrifice  him.  They  played  that  infamous 
game  last  year  on  Keppel,  when  ten  thousand  times 
more  was  at  stake.  They  look  at  the  biggest  objects 
through  the  diminishing  end  of  every  telescope ;  and 
the  higher  they  who  look,  the  more  malignant  and 
mean  the  eye. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  109 

I  send  you  "The  Mysterious  Mother,"  and  a  pair 
of  bootikins ;  you  shall  have  large  supplies  if  they 
prove  of  service — yet  I  would  not  have  you  even  try 
them,  unless  attacked  in  your  head  or  stomach.  You 
can  never  have  much  gout  in  your  limbs,  as  it  attacks 
you  so  late,  and  little  fits  will  prolong  your  life.  You 
must  put  them  on  at  night  and  tie  them  as  tight  as 
you  can  bear,  the  flannel  next  to  your  flesh,  the  oil- 
skin over.  In  the  morning  before  you  rise,  you  must 
dry  your  feet  with  a  hot  napkin,  and  put  on  a  pair 
of  warm  stockings  freshly  aired;  over  the  bootikins 
at  night,  a  pair  of  thread  stockings. 

The  Duchess  Dowager  of  Ancaster,  Lady  Elizabeth 
Burrell,  and  the  new  Duke  and  Duchess,  have  all  writ- 
ten to  Lady  Horatia,  acknowledging  that  the  late 
Duke  was  to  have  married  her.  The  two  first  have 
expressed  themselves  in  the  tenderest  manner ;  the 
others  wrote  only  for  form.  The  Mother-Duchess  ap- 
proves of  my  niece  going  into  mourning,  which  she 
does  for  six  months.  The  poor  young  man,  his  fa- 
ther's absurd  will  not  standing  good,  made  a  new  and 
most  rational  one  four  years  ago,  in  which  he  gives 
the  seat  of  the  family  and  5000/.  to  the  present  Duke 
and  to  the  title,  and  adds  1800/.  a-year  to  his  mother's 
jointure.  Such  symptoms  of  sense  and  feeling  double 
the  loss. 

Adieu !  my  dear  sir.  In  what  manner  we  are  to 
be  undone,  I  do  not  guess  ;  but  I  see  no  way  by 
which  we  can  escape  happily  out  of  this  crisis  —  I 
mean,  preserve  the  country  and  recover  the  Constitu- 


170  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

tion.  I  thought  for  four  years  that  calamity  would 
bring  us  to  our  senses  :  but  alas !  we  have  none  left 
to  be  brought  to.  We  shall  now  suffer  a  great  deal, 
submit  at  last  to  a  humiliating  peace,  and  people  will 
be  content. — So  adieu,  England !  it  will  be  more  or 
less  a  province  or  kind  of  province  to  France,  and  its 
viceroy  will  be,  in  what  does  not  concern  France,  its 
despot — and  will  be  content  too !  I  shall  not  pity 
the  country  :  I  shall  feel  only  for  those  who  grieve 
with  me  at  its  abject  state  ;  or  for  posterity,  if  they 
do  not,  like  other  degraded  nations,  grow  callously  re- 
conciled to  their  ignominy. 


LETTER  CCCX. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Aug.  4,  1779. 

I  EMrLOY  a  secretary,  to  spare  one  of  my  eyes, 
which  is  tormented  with  an  inflammation.  As  it  comes 
by  fits,  I  impute  it  to  my  old  enemy  the  gout ;  who, 
of  all  distempers,  is  the  greatest  harlequin.  This 
charge  is  not  made  to  avoid  an  unwillingness  of  owning 
that  the  breach  may  have  been  made  by  the  general 
foe,  old  age  ;  though  its  ally,  the  gout,  may  take  ad- 
vantage of  the  weak  place. 

I  sent  you  a  long  letter  by  your  nephew  :  it  leaves 
me  nothing  to  add  but  events,  and  of  them  there  have 
been  none,  except  the  safe  arrival  of  our  great  West 
Indian  fleet,  worth  between  two  and  three  millions. 
I  don't  know  why  the  fleets  of  Bourbon  suffered  it 
to  pass  quietly,  unless  to  return  the  compliment  of 


TO  SIR  HORACE   MANN.  171 

our  not  meddling  with  their  Domingo  fleet.  We  heard 
last  week  that  Gibraltar  was  invested  :  not  more  is 
confirmed  than  that  great  preparations  are  making  in 
Spain  for  the  siege.  We,  or  at  least  I,  do  not  know 
what  numbers  of  the  latter's  ships  have  joined  the 
French  :  they  certainly  out-number  Sir  Charles  Hardy's 
squadron  ;  yet  so  noble  a  navy  as  his  we  never  set  forth, 
and  it  will  cost  them  destruction  to  master  it.  They 
threaten  us  mightily  from  Havre  and  St.  Maloes ;  but 
we  are  prepared,  and  I  think  they  will  prefer  cheaper 
laurels  elsewhere. 

This  is  but  a  negative  description,  and  merely  in 
compliance  with  your  desire  of  frequent  letters.  Pri- 
vate news  we  have  none,  but  what  I  have  long  been 
bidden  to  expect,  the  completion  of  the  sale  of  the 
pictures  at  Houghton  to  the  Czarina.  The  sum  sti- 
pulated is  forty  or  forty-five  thousand  pounds,  I  nei- 
ther know  nor  care  which  ;  nor  whether  the  picture- 
merchant  ever  receives  the  whole  sum,  which  pro- 
bably he  will  not  do,  as  I  hear  it  is  to  be  discharged 
at  three  payments — a  miserable  bargain  for  a  mighty 
empress !  Fresh  lovers,  and  fresh,  will  perhaps  inter- 
cept the  second  and  third  payments.  Well !  adieu  to 
Houghton !  about  its  mad  master  I  shall  never  trouble 
myself  more.  From  the  moment  he  came  into  pos- 
session, he  has  undermined  every  act  of  my  father 
that  was  within  his  reach,  but,  having  none  of  that 
great  man's  sense  or  virtues,  he  could  only  lay  wild 
hands  on  lands  and  houses ;  and,  since  he  has  stript 
Houghton  of  its  glory,  I  do  not  care  a  straw  what 


172  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

lie  does  with  the  stone  or  the  acres.  The  happiness 
my  father  entailed  on  this  country  has  been  thrown 
away  in  as  distracted  a  manner,  but  his  fame  will  not 
be  injured  by  the  insanity  of  any  of  his  successors. 
We  have  paid  a  fine  for  having  cut  off  the  entail,  but 
shall  not  so  easily  suffer  a  recovery. 

General  Conway  is  still  in  his  little  island,  which 
I  trust  is  too  diminutive  to  be  descried  by  an  Armada. 
I  do  not  desire  to  have  him  achieve  an  Iliad  in  a  nut- 
shell. 

5th. 

You  perceive  my  eye  is  better,  but  I  must  not  use 
it  much.  Yesterday  came  an  account  of  the  conquest 
of  St.  Vincent  by  the  French.*  The  poor  Caribs  as- 
sisted them,  and  are  revenged  on  us  :  I  cannot  blame 
them.  How  impolitic  is  injustice,  when  man  cannot  com- 
mand fortune !  I  still  cannot  help  conjecturing  that 
France  will  prefer  demolishing  all  our  outworks  to 
attempting  invasion  here,  where  we  are  so  mightily 
prepared.  We  fear  they  will  not  engage  Sir  Charles 
Hardy,  though  superior  in  number ;  as  he  has  at  least 
thirty-eight  such  ships,  and  such  able  and  tried  captains 
in  them,  as  they  cannot  match.  By  thus  detaining  all 
our  force  at  home,  distant  quarters  are  half  at  their 
mercy.     They  themselves   think  America   much   dis- 

*  In  June,  during  the  absence  of  the  British  fleet,  a  handful  of  French 
from  Martinico  under  the  command  only  of  a  naval  lieutenant,  estimated 
at  four  hundred  and  fifty  men,  not  above  half  of  whom  were  regu- 
lars, having  ventured  to  land  upon  the  island  of  St.  Vincent,  garrisoned 
by  seven  companies  of  regular  troops,  the  island  was  delivered  up  to  them, 
without  the  firing  of  a  single  shot  on  either  side. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  173 

posed  to  return  to  us,  and  therefore  will  probably  not 
hazard  a  defeat  here,  which  would  leave  us  time  to 
treat  with  the  Colonies.  But  I  must  not  let  my  eye 
talk  of  politics.     Good  night ! 


LETTER  CCCXI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Aug.  19,  1770. 

The  French  and  Spanish  squadrons,  of  sixty  sail, 
passed  by  Sir  Charles  Hardy  without  meeting  ;  and,  on 
the  14th,  chased  three  of  our  men-of-war,  that  were 
going  to  join  him,  into  Plymouth.  To-day  an  account 
is  come,  that  the  enemy's  fleet,  of  fifty-six  sail,  is  an- 
chored before  that  fleet.  Whether  hoping  to  burn  it, 
or  to  wait  for  their  transports,  I  do  not  pretend  to  say, 
as  there  are  different  opinions.  Hardy  will  undoubt- 
edly attack  them  as  soon  as  he  can  ;  but  the  easterly 
wind  keeps  him  out  at  sea. 

I  would  write  to  you,  to  mark  my  constant  atten- 
tion ;  but  it  is  difficult  for  one  so  totally  uninformed 
as  I  am  to  speak  on  such  great  events  when  pending, 
and  as  improper  when  the  sea  swarms  with  privateers, 
and  my  letter  must  pass  through  so  many  post-offices. 
You  know  me  well  enough  to  guess  at  my  sentiments. 
You  know  me  an  unalterable  Englishman,  who  loves 
his  country  and  devoutly  wishes  its  prosperity.  Such 
I  am,  ardent  for  England,  and  ever  shall  be  ;  it  is  all 
an  useless  old  man  can  do,  to  pray  for  its  lasting  pro- 
sperity. The  events  of  war  must  be  accepted  with  con- 
stancy, good  or  bad.     You,  a  minister  of  peace  and  at 


174  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

a  distance,  will  be  anxious  for  every  post.  Good  news 
you  shall  have  instantly  :  I  hope  I  shall  have  nothing 
sinister  to  send  you.  I  may  not  be  at  hand  imme- 
diately to  tell  you  everything  :  I  have  female  relations 
whose  husbands  may  be  in  action,  whose  spirits  I  must 
keep  up,  and  who  are  in  different  counties;  but  I  shall 
never  be  long  from  home.  Every  man  must  do  the 
utmost  he  can  in  his  sphere  when  his  country  is  con- 
cerned, and  private  duties  must  be  attended  to  too. 
I  have  lived  long  enough  to  possess  calmness  enough 
for  my  use.  It  has  long  been  my  maxim,  that  most 
things  are  excusable  in  the  passions  of  youth  ;  but  that 
an  old  man  is  bound  to  think  of  nothing  but  what  is 
right,  and  to  be  serviceable  to  others.  Virtues,  if  one 
has  any,  shine  brightest  when  put  to  the  trial ;  but 
ostentation  may  taint  even  them.  My  father  is  ever 
before  my  eyes — not  to  attempt  to  imitate  him,  for  I 
have  none  of  his  matchless  wisdom,  or  unsullied  vir- 
tues, or  heroic  firmness  ;  but  sixty-two  years  have 
taught  me  to  gaze  on  him  with  ten  thousand  times  the 
reverence  that — I  speak  it  with  deep  shame — I  felt  for 
him  at  twenty-two,  when  he  stood  before  me  !  I  must 
check  this  theme,  it  would  carry  me  too  far  ;  and  it 
is  at  midnight  I  am  writing,  and  my  letter  must  go  to 
London  at  eight  in  the  morning.  Adieu !  my  dear 
sir  :  may  I  send  you  victories  while  we  are  at  war  ; 
but,  being  no  military  man,  I  may  be  allowed  to  wish 
I  could  send  you  peace  ! 


TO  SIR   HORACE   MANN.  175 


LETTER  CCCXII. 


Strawberry  Hill,  Sep.  5,  1779. 

If  I  tell  you  nothing  but  truth,  my  letter  will 
be  wondrously  short.  Since  my  last,  there  have 
been  no  events  but  what,  in  modern  phrase,  are 
called  movements.  The  combined  fleets  appeared  be- 
fore Plymouth,  and  disappeared.  Sir  Charles  Hardy 
was  driven  westward.  The  Ardent,  mistaking  ene- 
mies for  friends,  fell  among  them  ;  but  Captain  Bote- 
ler  was  thrown  so  little  off  his  guard,  that  it  took  four 
ships  to  master  him,  and  his  own  sunk  as  soon  as  he 
and  his  men  were  received  on  board  the  victors. 
Monsieur  D'Orvilliers,  admiring  his  gallantry,  applauded 
it.  He  modestly  replied,  "  You  will  find  every  captain 
in  our  fleet  behave  in  the  same  manner.""""  Un  tel  de- 
portement  donne  a  penser.  At  last  we  heard  of  Sir 
Charles  Hardy  off  Plymouth,  and  yesterday  at  Ports- 
mouth. Where  the  combined  are,  I  know  not  pre- 
cisely ;  but,  that  such  extended  lines  should  not  have 
caught  the  eye  of  each  other,  is  very  surprising  to  us 
inexpert  in  winds  and  tides.  On  those  I  never  allow 
myself  to  conjecture  or  reason  ;  and  thus  I  have  told 

*  "  Captain  Boteler  had  orders  to  join  Sir  Charles  Hardy's  fleet,  sup- 
posed to  be  cruizing  in  Channel  soundings.  He  had  received  no  intima- 
tion that  the  enemy  had  put  to  sea,  when  he  suddenly  fell  in  with  a  fleet 
which  made  him  the  private  signal.  So  little  idea  had  he  of  its  being  the 
enemy,  that  he  was  occupied  in  reefing  his  topsails,  when  a  frigate  poured 
her  broadside  into  him.  At  once  engaged  with  four  of  the  enemy's  fri- 
gates, and  a  powerful  force  coming  up  to  their  support,  he  was  com- 
pelled to  strike,  and  for  this — he  was  dismissed  the  service  .'" — Life  of  Kep- 
pel,  vol.  ii.  p.  257. — Ed. 


17G  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

}rou  all  the  little  I  know,  disrobed  of  the  reports  and 
lies  of  each  new  day.  Opinions,  were  I  informed 
enough  to  frame  them,  would  be  stale  ere  they  could 
reach  you.  I  write  rather  to  extract  the  small  truth 
there  is  in  newspapers  and  interested  relations,  than  to 
swell  your  imagination.  My  letter  must  pass  through 
so  many  inquisitions,  that  it  is  necessary  it  should  be 
able  to  stand  the  test. 

There  is  not  a  word  of  private  news.  All  the  world 
are  politicians,  or  soldiers  ;  or,  rather,  both.  I  hope 
they  will  improve  more  in  the  latter  profession  than 
they  have  done  in  the  former.  Even  this  little  quiet 
village  is  grown  a  camp.  Servants  are  learning  to  fire 
all  day  long,  and,  I  suppose,  soon  will  demand  their 
wages  le  pistolet  a  la  main.  I  could  draw  other  re- 
flections ;  but  a  man  who  in  a  month  will  enter  on  his 
grand  climacteric,  and  should  busy  himself  with  visions 
of  what  may  happen  when  he  is  in  his  grave,  would 
resemble  Hogarth's  debtor,  who,  in  prison,  is  writing  a 
scheme  for  paying  the  debts  of  the  nation. 

I  forgot  to  tell  you,  that,  the  moment  I  received  jouy 
letter  to  your  nephew,  I  sent  it  to  his  house  in  town, 
— where  he  was  not ;  and  the  servant  believed  he  was 
to  set  out  the  next  morning,  but  would  send  it  to  him. 
I  have  not  been  able  to  learn  since  whether  he  is  gone 
or  not ;  for  your  sake  I  own  I  wish  he  may  be. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  177 


LETTER  CCCXIII. 

Sep.  1G,  177!). 

I  have  received  your  letter  by  Colonel  Floyd,  and 
shall  be  surprised  indeed  if  Cresar  does  not  find  his 
own  purple  a  little  rumpled,  as  well  as  his  brother's 
mantle.  But  how  astonished  was  I  at  finding  that  you 
did  not  mention  the  dreadful  eruption  of  Vesuvius. 
Surely  you  had  not  heard  of  it !  What  are  kings  and 
their  popguns  to  that  wrath  of  Nature  !  How  Sesostris, 
at  the  head  of  an  army  of  nations,  would  have  fallen 
prostrate  to  earth  before  a  column  of  blazing  embers 
eleven  thousand  feet  high  !  *  I  am  impatient  to  hear 
more,  as  you  are  of  the  little  conflict  of  us  pigmies. 
Three  days  after  my  last  set  out,  we  received  accounts 
of  D'Estaing's  success  against  Byron  and  Barrington, 
and  of  the  capture  of  Grenada.  I  do  not  love  to  send 
first  reports,  which  are  rarely  authentic.     The  subse- 

*  An  eruption  of  Mount  Vesuvius  had  taken  place  in  August,  which, 
for  its  extraordinary  and  terrible  appearance,  is  considered  the  most  re- 
markable of  any  recorded  concerning  this  or  any  other  volcano.     An  ac- 
count of  it  was  published  in  October  by  Sir  William  Hamilton,  in  a  letter 
to  Mr.,  afterwards  Sir  Joseph,  Banks  : — "  In  an  instant,"  says  Sir  William, 
"  a  fountain  of  liquid  transparent  fire  began  to  rise,  and,  gradually  in- 
creasing, arrived  at  so  amazing  a  height  as  to  strike  every  one  who  beheld 
it  with  the  most  awful  astonishment.     I  shall  scarcely  be  credited  when 
I  assure  you,  sir,  that  the  height  of  this  stupendous  column  of  fire 
could  not  be  less  than  three  times  that  of  Vesuvius  itself,  which,  as  you 
know,  rises  perpendicularly  3700  feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea  ! — 
'  Se  tu  se'  or,  lettore,  a  creder  lento 
Cio  ch'  io  diro,  non  sara  maraviglia, 
Che  io,  che  '1  vidi,  appena  il  mi  consento.'  " — Ed. 

VOL.    III. NEW    SERIES.  N 


178  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

quent  narrative  of  the  engagement'""  is  more  favourable. 
It  allows  the  victory  to  the  enemy,  but  makes  their 
loss  of  men  much  the  more  considerable.  Of  ships  we 
lost  but  one,  taken  after  the  fight  as  going  into  port  to 
refit.  Sir  Charles  Hardy  and  D'Orvilliers  have  not 
met ;  the  latter  is  at  Brest,  the  former  at  Portsmouth. 
I  never  penetrated  an  inch  into  what  is  to  be  ;  and  into 
some  distant  parts  of  our  history,  I  mean  the  Eastern, 
I  have  never  liked  to  look.  I  believe  it  an  infamous 
scene  ;  you  know  I  have  always  thought  it  so  ;  and 
the  Marattas  are  a  nation  of  banditti  very  proper  to 
scourge  the  heroes  of  Europe,  who  go  so  far  to  plunder 
and  put  themselves  into  their  way.  Nature  gave  to 
mankind  a  beautiful  world,  and  larger  than  it  could 
occupy, — for,  as  to  the  eruption  of  Goths  and  Vandals 
occasioned  by  excess  of  population,  I  very  much  doubt 
it ;  and  mankind  prefers  deforming  the  ready  Paradise, 
to  improving  and  enjoying  it.  Ambition  and  mischief, 
which  one  should  not  think  were  natural  appetites, 
seem  almost  as  much  so  as  the  impulse  to  propagation  ; 
and  those  pious  rogues,  the  clergy,  preach  against  what 
Nature  forces  us  to  practise,  (or  she  could  not  carry  on 
her  system,)  and  not  twice  in  a  century  say  a  syllable 
against  the  Lust  of  Destruction !  Oh !  one  is  lost  in 
moralizing,  as  one  is  in  astronomy  !  In  the  ordi- 
nance and  preservation  of  the  great  universal  system 

*  The  unsatisfactory  engagement  which  took  place  on  the  6th  of  July 
between  Admirals  Byron  and  Barrington,  and  Count  D'Estaing  ;  in  which 
the  latter,  though  considerably  superior  in  force,  eluded  every  effort  which 
was  made  by  the  British  commanders  to  bring  on  a  close  and  decisive 
battle. — En. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  179 

one  sees  the  Divine  Artificer,  but  our  intellects  arc  too 
bounded  to  comprehend  anything  more. 

Lord  Temple  is  dead  by  an  accident.*  I  never  had 
any  esteem  for  his  abilities  or  character.  He  had  grown 
up  in  the  bask  of  Lord  Chatham's  glory,  and  had  the 
folly  to  mistake  half  the  rays  for  his  own.  The  world 
was  not  such  a  dupe  ;  and  his  last  years  discovered  a 
selfish  restlessness,  and  discovered  to  him,  too,  that  no 
mortal  regarded  him  but  himself. 

The  Lucans  are  in  my  neighbourhood,  and  talk  with 
much  affection  of  you.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCCXIV. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Oct.  11,  1779 

It  is  very  difficult  to  write  at  such  a  time  as  this, 
when  there  have  been  no  events,  are  no  good  prospects, 
and  when  we  have  not  abundance  of  friends  in  the  post- 
offices  abroad,  through  which  one's  letters  are  to  pass. 
You  must  remember  this  position,  and  curb  your  im- 
patience when  you  do  not  hear  from  me  often. 

Nothing  has  happened  since  my  last,  though  near  a 
month  ago,  but  the  surprisal  of  Stony  Point  by  the 
Americans,  where  they  made  eight  hundred  prisoners. 
These  events  seem  trifles  to  me,  who  look  on  America 
as  totally  lost,  and  do  not  take  account  of  the  modes  by 
which  we  part  with  the  ruins. 

*  The  Earl  was  thrown  from  his  phaeton  ;  by  which  melancholy  acci- 
dent his  skull  was  fractured. — Ed. 

n  2 


180  THE    HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

D'Orvilliers  is  certainly  laid  aside,  though  his  disgrace 
is  palliated.  The  combined  fleets  have  as  surely  lost 
many  thousands  by  the  small-pox.  *  We  are  bidden  at 
this  very  time  to  expect  their  reappearance.  The  year 
is  so  far  advanced  that  we  must  know  soon,  whether 
any  blow  will  be  attempted,  or  the  campaign  conclude. 
In  my  own  opinion,  the  principal  effort  will  be  against 
Ireland  ;  but  I  do  not  trust  my  guesses  a  yard  out  of 
my  sight,  and  keep  still  closer  guard  upon  my  ears,  for 
almost  everybody's  mouth  seems  to  have  a  design  on 
one's  senses.  They  tell  one  lies  as  solemnly  as  Swift 
related  his  voyages  to  Brobdignag  and  Lilliput. 

Notions  there  are,  or  have  been  lately,  that  the  two 
Empresses  wish  to  mediate  a  peace.  I  do  believe  that 
on  France  notifying  to  the  Emperor  that  she  should 
send  some  troops  to  Flanders  to  impose  neutrality  on 
the  Dutch,  he  replied,  a  la  bonne  heure ;  but,  for  every 
squadron,  he  would  despatch  two.  It  cannot  be  the  in- 
terest of  the  rest  of  Europe  that  the  Bourbons  should 
be  sole  sovereigns  of  the  ocean  ;  nor  should  I  think  that, 
so  excellent  a  milch-cow  as  England  has  been  to  Ger- 
many, the  latter  would  like  to  see  the  pail  demolished, 
though  the  cow  has  kicked  it  down  herself,  when  it  was 
out  of  reach  of  everybody  else.  But  adieu  retrospect ! 
it  is  as  idle  as  prophecy,  the  characteristic  of  which  is, 

*  Dreading  the  effects  of  the  approaching  equinoctial  gales,  D'Orvil- 
liers  withdrew  his  vast  armament  into  Brest  harbour,  where  it  remained 
useless  and  inactive.  On  board  the  Spanish  ships  three  thousand  men 
were  swept  away  hy  disease,  and  the  mortality  among  the  French  is  con- 
sidered to  have  been  still  more  formidable.  Thus  ended  the  expectations 
of  the  enemy,  and  the  apprehensions  of  the  people  of  England. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  181 

never  to  be  believed  where  alone  it  eould  be  useful — 
i.  e.  in  its  own  country. 

I  complained  unjustly  of  your  silence  on  Vesuvius, 
having  since  received  the  view  of  its  terrors  in  the 
compass  of  a  card,  excellently  done.  I  thank  you  much 
for  it. 

Of  late — indeed,  for  the  entire  summer — I  have  been 
much  out  of  order,  and  thought  my  constitution  break- 
ing fast ;  but  it  exerted  its  internal  strength,  and,  when 
I  was  lowest,  threw  out  the  gout  in  several  joints.  In 
short,  I  have  stamina  of  iron,  in  a  case,  as  I  used  to  call 
yours,  of  wet  brown-paper.  I  am  now  taking  the  bark, 
and  find  great  benefit  from  it :  nay,  I  am  removing  into 
a  new  house  in  London,  that  I  bought  last  winter,  as 
if  I  believed  I  had  several  years  to  come.  It  is  in 
Berkeley  Square,  whither  for  the  future  you  must 
direct.  It  is  a  charming  situation,  and  a  better  house 
than  I  wanted — in  short,  I  would  not  change  my  two 
pretty  mansions  for  any  in  England  :  but  I  do  not  shut 
my  eyes  on  the  transitory  tenure  of  them  ;  though,  if 
mortals  did  not  coin  visions  for  themselves,  they  would 
sit  with  folded  arms,  and  take  no  thought  for  the  mor- 
row !  I  hold  visions  to  be  wisdom  ;  and  would  deny 
them  only  to  ambition,  which  exists  by  destruction  of 
the  visions  of  everybody  else.  Like  Vesuvius,  it  over- 
whelms the  fair  face  of  the  world,  though  to  reign  over 
cinders,  and  only  lift  its  head  above  the  desolation  it 
has  occasioned  and  cannot  enjoy. 


182       THE  HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCCXV. 

Berkeley  Square,  Oct.  14,  1779. 

I  have  been  desired,  and  never  acquiesced  with 
more  pleasure,  both  for  the  sake  of  the  recommended 
and  of  yours,  to  give  a  recommendatory  letter  to  you 
for  Mr.  Windham,  a  gentleman  of  large  fortune  in 
Norfolk,  who  is  obliged  to  go  to  Italy  for  the  recovery 
of  his  health,  which  I  most  earnestly  wish  he  may  re- 
trieve there.  *     He  is  young,  but  full  of  virtues,  know- 

*  William  Windham,  Esq.,  of  Felbrigg  in  the  county  of  Norfolk,  the 
subject  of  this  high  hut  strictly  merited  eulogium,  was  horn  in  London 
in  1750,  and  sent  in  his  seventh  year  to  Eton  ;  whence  he  was  removed 
in  1766  to  the  University  of  Glasgow,  and  in  the  following  year  to  Uni- 
versity College,  Oxford.     In  1773,  his  love  of  adventure  and  thirst  of 
knowledge  induced  him  to  accompany  his  friend,  Constantine  Lord  Mul- 
grave,  in  his  voyage  towards  the  North  Pole  ;   but  sea-sickness  com- 
pelled him  to  land  in  Norway,  and  abandon  his  purpose.     The  ill-health 
referred  to  by  Walpole  was  occasioned  by  riding,  in  a  sort  of  frolic, 
through  a  deep  rivulet,  and  remaining  for  several  hours  in  wet  clothes. 
With  a  view  to  its  restoration,  he,  in  1779,  proceeded  to  the  Continent ; 
where  he  remained  for  two  years.     In  1782,  he  came  into  Parliament ; 
where  he  sat  for  twenty-eight  years.     In  1783,  he  was  appointed  Chief 
Secretary  to  the  Lord-Lieutenant  of  Ireland  ;  upon  which  occasion,  on  his 
expressing  to  Dr.  Johnson,  of  whose  Literary  Club  he  was  a  member, 
some  doubts  that  he  should  be  called  on  in  his  new  office  to  sanction 
practices  of  which  he  could  not  approve,  "  Don't  be  afraid,  sir,"  said 
the  Doctor,  with  a  smile,  "  you  will  soon  make  a  very  pretty  rascal."     It 
appears  that  Mr.  Windham's  doubts  were  not  ill-founded,  as  he  yielded 
up  his  secretaryship  four  months  after  his  appointment.      He  sided  with 
Opposition  until  the  celebrated  secession  from  the  Whig  party  in  1793  ; 
when  he  followed  the  lead  of  Mr.  Burke.     In  1794,  he  was  appointed 
Secretary  at  War,  with  a  seat  in  the  cabinet.     In  the  same  year,  he  took 
his  degree  of  LL.D.  at   Oxford  ;  upon  which  occasion,  on  his  entering 
the  theatre,  the  whole  assembly  rose,  and  greeted  him  with  loud  accla- 
mations.    When  Mr.  Pitt  resigned,  in  1801,  Mr.  Windham  retired  from 
office;  but  on  the  death  of  that  great  man,  in   1806,  he  again  took   it, 
as  Secretary  of  State  for  War  and  the  Colonies,  and,  on  the  dismissal  of 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  183 

ledge,  and  good  sense ;  and,  in  one  word,  of  the  old  rock 
— of  which  so  few  gems  are  left  in  this  wretched  coun- 
try !  Ilis  ill-health  has  prevented  my  being  much  ac- 
quainted with  him,  which  I  regret ;  but  I  well  know 
his  worth,  and  respect  him  exceedingly.  In  short,  this 
is  not  a  common  letter  of  recommendation,  but  one 
that  I  shall  confirm  in  my  next  by  the  post.  I  do  not 
beg  attentions  for  him  ;  those  you  have  even  for  the 
least  deserving,  from  your  own  good-nature  :  but  I  in- 
treat  and  advise  you  to  get  acquainted  with  Mr.  Wind- 
ham as  fast  as  you  can  ;  your  friendship  will  soon 

the  Grenville  Administration,  returned  to  the  ranks  of  Opposition, 
which  he  never  afterwards  quitted.  His  death  was  occasioned  hy  the 
following  circumstance.  About  midnight,  on  the  8th  of  July  1809, 
in  walking  home  from  an  evening  party,  he  observed  a  house  in  Con- 
duit Street  on  fire.  He  hastened  to  the  spot  to  render  his  assistance, 
and  found  that  the  house  in  flames  was  so  near  to  that  of  his  friend, 
the  Honourable  Frederick  North,  (afterwards  fifth  Earl  of  Guildford,) 
as  to  threaten  its  destruction.  Knowing  that  his  friend  possessed  a  very 
valuable  library,  Mr.  Windham  determined,  with  the  assistance  of  per- 
sons whom  he  selected  from  the  crowd,  to  make  an  effort  for  the  pre- 
servation of  it.  After  four  hours'  labour  four-fifths  of  the  books  were 
saved  ;  nor  did  he  quit  the  house  till  the  flames,  which  finally  consumed 
it,  had  rendered  farther  exertions  highly  dangerous.  Unfortunately,  by  a 
fall,  he  received  a  blow  on  his  hip.  He  took  no  notice  of  the  accident, 
until  an  indolent  tumour  had  been  formed,  which  at  length  compelled 
him  to  submit  to  a  most  painful  and  dangerous  operation.  The  tumour 
was  removed  with  success  on  the  17th  of  May,  1810  ;  but  unfavourable 
symptoms  soon  afterwards  appeared,  and  he  expired  on  the  4th  of  the 
following  month.  A  Collection  of  his  Speeches  in  Parliament,  in  three 
volumes,  to  which  is  prefixed  a  Biographical  Sketch  of  his  Life,  was  pub- 
lished in  1812  by  his  friend,  Thomas  Amyot,  Esq.  His  talents,  accom- 
plishments, and  virtues  have  been  happily  summed  up,  by  describing 
him  as  the  true  model  of  an  English  gentleman ;  and  it  has  been 
well  observed,  that  if  this  country  had  been  required  to  produce,  in  a 
trial  of  strength  with  another  nation,  some  individual  who  was  at  once 
eminent  for  learning,  taste,  eloquence,  wit,  courage,  and  personal  accom- 
plishments, the  choice  must  have  fallen  upon  Mr.  Windham. — Ed. 


184  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

follow,  and  then  lie  can  want  nothing  in  my  power  to 
ask, — unless  his  modesty  should  prevent  his  pressing  you 
for  letters  of  recommendation  to  other  parts  of  Italy, 
and  therefore  I  beg  them  for  him,  and  indeed  every 
service  you  can  perform  for  him.  My  unlimited  ex- 
pressions will  tell  you  how  confident  I  am  that  your 
goodness  will  not  be  misplaced,  as  it  has  often  been  on 
travelling  boys  and  their  more  unlicked  governors. 
Mr.  Windham  is  not  so  young  as  to  want  to  be  formed, 
nor  so  old  as  to  be  insensible  to  the  merit  of  others ; 
and,  therefore,  I  trust  you  will  both  be  mutually  pleased 
with  each  other.  I  envy  him  a  little  the  satisfaction 
of  visiting  you ;  and,  as  he  is  a  genuine  Englishman, 
should  lament  his  being  forced  to  leave  his  own  country, 
if  I  thought  its  honour  or  principles  retrievable ;  and 
if  I  was  not  sure,  by  what  I  feel  myself,  that  his  health 
would  be  but  more  prejudiced  by  his  remaining  spec- 
tator of  its  blindness  and  disgraces. 


LETTER  CCCXVI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Oct.  31,  1779. 

Your  last  letter  was  so  full  of  encomiums  on  my 
tragedy,  that,  veteran  author  as  I  am,  it  made  me 
blush.  But  I  recollected  your  partiality,  'and  then  I 
accepted  the  motive  with  pleasure,  though  I  must  de- 
cline the  exaggerations.  It  is  plain  that  I  am  sin- 
cerely modest  about  it,  for  I  not  only  never  thought 
of  its  appearing  on  the  stage,  but  have  not  published 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  185 

it.  It  has  indeed  received  greater  honour  than  any 
of  its  superiors ;  for  Lady  Di.  Beauclerc  has  drawn 
seven  scenes  of  it,  that  would  be  fully  worthy  of  the 
best  of  Shakespeare's  plays — such  drawings,  that  Sal- 
vador Rosa  and  Guido  could  not  surpass  their  ex- 
pression and  beauty.  I  have  built  a  closet  on  pur- 
pose for  thern  here  at  Strawberry  Hill.  It  is  called 
the  Beauclerc  Closet ;  and  whoever  sees  the  drawings 
allows  that  no  description  comes  up  to  their  merit — 
and  then,  they  do  not  shock  and  disgust,  like  their 
original,  the  tragedy.""' 

I  am  heartily  glad  you  have  had  your  nephew  ;  I 
speak  in  the  past  tense,  for  he  will  certainly  be  set 
out  on  his  return  before  this  can  reach  Florence.  It 
was  uncommon  merit  to  take  so  long  a  journey  for 
a  moment.  I  have  sent  you  one  to  replace  him,  not 
to  compensate  ;  for  a  stranger  cannot  rival  or  equal 
your  nephew  :  but  one  who,  as  soon  as  you  are  ac- 
quainted with  him,  will  be  a  great  comfort  to  you, 
from  his  virtues,  sense,  and  manners.     It  is  a  young 

*  The  following  is  Walpole's  account  of  these  drawings  in  his  Descrip- 
tion of  Strawberry  Hill : — "  The  beauty  and  grace  of  the  figures  and  of 
the  children  are  inimitable  ;  the  expression  of  the  passions  most  masterly, 
particularly  in  the  devotion  of  the  Countess  with  the  Porter,  of  Benedict 
in  the  scene  with  Martin,  and  the  tenderness,  despair,  and  resolution  of 
the  Countess  in  the  last  scene  ;  in  which  is  anew  stroke  of  double  passion 
in  Edmund,  whose  right  hand  is  clenched  and  ready  to  strike  with  anger, 
the  left  relents.     In  the  scene  of  the  children,  some  are  evidently  vulgar  ; 
the  others  children  of  rank  ;   and  the  first  child,  that  pretends  to  look 
down  and  does  leer  upwards,  is  charming.     Only  two  scenes  are  repre- 
sented in  all  the  seven,  and  yet  all  are  varied  ;  and  the  ground  in  the 
first,  by  a  very  uncommon  effect,  evidently  descends  and   rises  again. 
These  sublime   drawings,  the  first  histories  Lady  Di.  ever  attempted, 
were  all  conceived  and  executed  in  a  fortnight." — Ed. 


186  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Mr.  Windham,  a  gentleman  of  Norfolk,  of  a  very  con- 
siderable estate,  who  is  in  a  bad  state  of  health,  and 
travels  for  it.  I  am  not  so  much  acquainted  with 
him  as  with  his  character,  which  is  excellent ;  and 
then  he  is  a  Whig  of  the  stamp  that  was  current  in 
our  country  in  my  father's  time.  I  do  not  always 
send  you  a  tally  to  the  letters  of  recommendation 
I  am  sometimes  forced  to  give  ;  but  that  which  he 
carries  to  you,  I  confirm  by  this  in  all  points.  I  ad- 
vise you  to  be  intimate  with  him ;  I  will  warrant  the 
safety  of  his  connection,  and  I  beg  you  to  assist  him 
with  recommendations  wherever  you  can.  He  is  a 
particular  friend  of  my  great-nephew,*  Lord  Chol- 
mondeley's  cousin ;  but  one  I  should  have  liked  for 
my  own  friend,  if  the  disparity  of  our  ages  would 
have  allowed  it ;  or  if  it  were  a  time  for  me  to  make 
friends,  when  I  could  only  leave  them  behind  me. 

Well ;  but  you  had  rather  I  had  been  talking  po- 
litics, or  telling  you  news.  The  scene  is  not  mended, 
for  another  is  opened.  Ireland,  taking  advantage  of 
the  moment,  and  of  forty  thousand  volunteers  that 
they  have  in  arms  and  regimented,  has  desired — that 
is,  demanded — free  trade.  If  we  are  not  cured  of  our 
American  visions  at  last,  I  hope  we  have  learnt  wis- 
dom enough  to  perceive  that  prerogative  is  the  weak- 
est of  all  chimeras  when  opposed  by  free  men  in  arms : 
it  has  cost  us  the  diadem  of  the  Colonies,  as  it  did 

*  George,  son  of  Robert  Cholmondelcy,  second  son  of  George  Earl 
of  Cholmondeley,  by  Elizabeth  Woffington,  sister  of  the  distinguished 
actress  of  that  name  ;  who  left  the  whole  of  her  fortune,  acquired  by  her 
talents,  to  her  nephew,  the  person  here  mentioned. — En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  187 

James  II.  those  of  three  kingdoms  ;  and  therefore  I 
trust  we  shall  have  more  sense  in  Ireland.  We  still 
kick  at  the  independence  of  America,  though  we  might 
as  well  pursue  our  title  to  the  crown  of  France. 

Our  fleet  is  at  sea,  and  a  most  noble  one.  They 
still  talk  of  the  reappearance  of  the  combined  fleets 
from  Brest.  It  is  probable  that  the  winds  of  Novem- 
ber will  be  the  most  considerable  victors  ;  for  the  sea- 
son has  been  so  very  serene  in  general,  that  I  think 
the  equinoctial  tempests,  like  the  squadrons,  have 
passed  the  autumn  in  harbour,  and  that  they  will  all 
come  forth  together. 

Lord  Stormont  has  got  the  late  Lord  Suffolk's  seals 
of  Secretary.  There  were  to  have  been  other  arrange- 
ments, but  they  are  suspended ;  and  it  is  said  this 
new  preferment  is  more  likely  to  produce  resignations 
than  settlement :  but  I  only  tell  you  common  re- 
port ;  which  is  not  at  all  favourable  to  Lord  Stormont's 
promotion.  He  has  a  fair  character,  and  is  a  friend  of 
General  Conway  ;  but  he  is  a  Scot,  and  Lord  Mans- 
field's nephew,  which  the  people  mind  much  more  than 
his  character  :  the  other  advantage  they  will  certainly 
pay  no  regard  to  at  all.  It  is  great  pity  unpopular 
things  are  done  at  such  a  moment ! 

Well !  I  trust  I  shall  see  General  Conway  within  a 
week  ;  I  go  to  town  to-morrow  expecting  him.  He 
has  acted  in  his  diminutive  islet  with  as  much  virtue 
and  popularity  as  Cicero  in  his  large  Sicily,  and  with 
much  more  ability  as  a  soldier,  and  a  commander — I 
am  heartily  glad  he  was  disappointed  of  showing  how 


1S8  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

infinitely  more  he  is  a  hero. — The  conclusion  of  my 
letter  on  Tuesday  from  London. 

Nov.  1,  Berkeley  Square. 

My  letter  is  concluded,  for  I  have  nothing  to  add, 
but  that  the  town  says  Lord  Gower,  President  of  the 
Council,  will  resign.  Mind,  I  do  not  warrant  this,  nor 
anything  that  is  not  actually  past. 


LETTER  CCCXVII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Nov.  12,  1779. 

I  went  this  morning  to  Zoffani's,  to  see  his  pic- 
ture or  portrait  of  the  Tribune  at  Florence  ;*  and,  though 
my  letter  will  not  put  on  its  boots  these  three  days, 
I  must  write  while  the  subject  is  fresh  in  my  head. 
The  first  thing  I  looked  for,  was  you — and  I  could  not 
find  you.  At  last  I  said,  "  Pray,  who  is  that  Knight 
of  the  Bath ?"— " Sir  Horace  Mann."— "Impossible!" 
said  I.  My  dear  sir,  how  you  have  left  me  in  the 
lurch  ! — you  are  grown  fat,  jolly,  young  ;  while  I  am 
become  the  skeleton  of  Methusalem  ! 

The  idea  I  always  thought  an  absurd  one.  It  is 
rendered  more  so  by  being  crowded  with  a  flock  of 
travelling  boys,  and  one  does  not  know  nor  care 
whom.     You  and  Sir  John  Dick,  as  Envoy  and  Consul, 

*  Zoffani  having  expressed  a  desire  of  visiting  Italy,  George  III.  is 
said  to  have  kindly  interested  himself  so  far  as  to  give  directions  for  his 
being  recommended  to  the  Grand-Duke  of  Tuscany.  Whilst  he  was  at 
Florence  he  painted  his  celebrated  picture  of  the  Florence  gallery,  hero 
spoken  of  by  Walpole, — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  180 

are  very  proper.  The  Grand-Ducal  family  would  have 
been  so  too.  Most  of  the  rest  are  as  impertinent  as  the 
names  of  churchwardens  stuck  up  in  parishes  whenever 
a  country-church  is  repaired  and  white-washed. 

The  execution  is  good  ;  most  of  the  styles  of  paint- 
ers happily  imitated  ;  the  labour  and  finishing  infi- 
nite ;  and  no  confusion,  though  such  a  multiplicity 
of  objects  and  colours.  The  Titian's  Venus,  as  the 
principal  object,  is  the  worst  finished  ;  the  absence  * 
of  the  Venus  of  Medici  is  surprising ;  but  the  great- 
est fault  is  in  the  statues.  To  distinguish  them,  he 
has  made  them  all  of  a  colour,  not  imitating  the  differ- 
ent hues  of  their  marbles ;  and  thus  they  all  look 
alike,  like  casts  in  plaster  of  Paris  :  however,  it  is  a 
great  and  curious  work — though  ZofFani  might  have  been 
better  employed.  His  talent  is  representing  natural 
humour  :  I  look  upon  him  as  a  Dutch  painter  polished 
or  civilized.  He  finishes  as  highly,  renders  nature  as 
justly,  and  does  not  degrade  it,  as  the  Flemish  school 
did,  who  thought  a  man  vomiting,  a  good  joke  ;  and 
would  not  have  grudged  a  week  on  finishing  a  belch, 
if  mere  labour  and  patience  could  have  compassed  it. 

Mr.  Windham,  who  I  thought  half-way  to  Florence, 
did  not  set  out  till  last  Monday.  Of  martial  and 
political  news  I  can  tell  you  nothing  new  and  posi- 
tive. It  does  not  appear  that  the  combined  fleets 
have  come  forth  again.  The  mortality,  I  believe,  has 
been  great  amongst  them,  and  disagreement.  The 
Spanish    Admiral   would   not   cede   the   post   to    Du 

*   This  was  an  oversight ;  the  Venus  is  in  the  picture. 


190  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Chaffaut.**  Darandaf  and  Monsieur  de  Sartine  }.  were 
forced  to  go  to  Brest  to  obtain  precedence  for  the 
latter.  These  two  Civil  Ministers  have  been  principal 
incendiaries  of  the  war.  The  present  rumour  is,  that 
D'Estaing  has  taken  Long  Island,  and  blocked  up 
Admiral  Arbutlmot ; — but  the  account  comes  from 
France. 

The  Irish  seem  more  temperate  ;  and,  if  we  are  so, 
it  is  to  be  hoped  that  harmony  will  be  restored. 

There  have  been  no  more  resignations  or  promo- 
tions. Some  changes  are  expected — but  you  will  have 
no  "  Anticipation  "§  from  my  shop  ;  I  deal  only  in  past 
wares  —  and  even  those  one  cannot  always  procure 
genuine.  The  Parliament  is  at  hand,  and  may  be  a 
busy  scene.  I  have  had  the  sense  to  make  it  a  sea- 
son of  repose  to  myself.  It  is  the  summer  that  in 
time  of  war  is  the  high-tide  of  anxiety  to  me :  then 
I  am  trembling  for  my  friends. 

Well !  but  are  you  really  so  portly  a  personage  as 
Zoffani  has  represented  you  1  I  envy  you.  Everybody 
can  grow  younger  and  plump,  but  I.  My  brother  is  as 
sleek  as  an  infant,  and,  though  seventy-three,  is  still 

*  Immediately  on  his  return  with  his  fleet  to  Brest  harhour,  Vice- 
Admiral  Count  D'Orvilliers  sent  in  his  resignation,  which  was  accepted. 
"  II  est  extremement  regrette,"  writes  Madame  du  Deffand  to  Walpole 
on  the  2nd  of  October,  "  de  toute  la  marine  :  c'est  M.  du  Chaffaut  qui 
le  remplacc." — Ed. 

f  The  Spanish  Ambassador  at  Paris. 

X  French  Minister  of  the  Marine. 

§  In  the  preceding  year,  Tickell's  pamphlet  by  that  title,  giving 
draughts  of  speeches  that  would  probably  be  made  in  the  Parliament, 
and  burlesquing  most  of  the  speakers,  was  published  just  before  the 
meeting. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  191 

quite  beautiful.  He  has  a  charming  colour,  and  not  a 
wrinkle.  I  told  him,  when  Lord  Orford  was  in  danger, 
that  he  might  think  what  he  would,  but  I  would  carry 
him  into  the  court  of  Chancery,  and  put  it  to  the  con- 
sciences of  the  judges,  which  of  us  two  was  the  elder 
by  eleven  years  % 

16th. 

Yes,  it  is  the  16th,  and  not  a  syllable  of  news  more. 
A  llez  vous  en,  ma  lettre ;  Sir  Horace  expects  you. 

P.S.  I  do  allow  Earl  Cowper  a  place  in  the  Tribune  : 
an  English  earl,  who  has  never  seen  his  earldom,  and 
takes  root  and  bears  fruit  at  Florence,  and  is  proud  of 
a  pinchbeck  principality  in  a  third  country,  is  as  great 
a  curiosity  as  any  in  the  Tuscan  collection.* 

Second  P.S.  I  had  just  folded  my  letter,  but  not 
sealed  it  : — a  knock  at  the  door.  Who  do  you  think  it 
was  1 — your  nephew  !  Oh  !  how  glad  !  Why  you  have 
flown  on  the  wings  of  the  winds  ! — So  he  had — in  such 
a  storm  on  Saturday  night,  that  I  believed  it  tossed 
him  over  the  houses,  and  set  him  down  in  Berkeley 
Square.  He  looks  as  well  as  possible.  I  read  my  let- 
ter to  him,  and  he  swears  your  portrait  is  as  like 
you  as  two  peas.  Well !  then  I  have  no  idea  of 
you! 

After  exhausting  Florence  and  England,  I  questioned 
him  about  Vesuvius  :  he  repeated  Sir  William  Hamil- 
ton's account  of  it  to  you,  and  I  long  to  see  it.  I  had 
not  heard  of  the  insurrection  and  phrenzy  of  the  peo- 

*  The  Earl  married  at  Florence  in  1775,  and  died  in  1789.  His  three 
children  were  all  born  at  Florence. — Ed. 


192  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

pie.*     You  would  oblige  me  much  if  you  would  let  it 
be  transcribed,  and  send  me  a  copy  of  his  letter.     As 
your  nephew  said  justly,  it  was  such  a  wonderful  pic- 
ture of  nature  and  human  nature  in  convulsion  ! 
Adieu !  I  have  not  time  to  say  more. 


LETTER  CCCXVIII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Nov.  28, 1779. 

I  did  not  forget  you  on  the  Parliament  meeting, 
though  you  have  not  received  proof  of  my  recollection. 
Being  ill  in  bed,  and  not  able  to  write  myself,  I  dictated 
a  line  to  your  nephew,  to  beg  that,  if  anything  very 
particular  should  happen  on  Thursday,  the  first  day  of 
the  session,  he  would  write  to  you  the  next  day,  which 
would  have  been  my  post-night.  Your  nephew  was 
not  in  town,  nor  was  expected  till  to-day  ;  and,  hav- 
ing the  gout  in  both  feet  and  knees,  I  continued  in 
too  much  pain  to  write  myself,  or  even  to  dictate  : 
besides  that,  in  that  situation,  I  had  learnt  few  or  no 
circumstances  of  the  debate,  except  that  little  or  no 

*  "  All  public  diversions,"  says  Sir  William,  "  ceased  in  an  instant ; 
and,  the  theatres  being  shut,  the  doors  of  the  churches  were  thrown  open. 
Numerous  processions  were  formed  in  the  streets,  and  women  and  chil- 
dren with  dishevelled  heads  filled  the  air  with  their  cries,  insisting  loudly 
upon  the  relics  of  St.  Januarius  being  immediately  opposed  to  the  fury  of 
the  mountain  :  in  short,  the  populace  began  to  display  its  usual  extra- 
vagant mixture  of  riot  and  bigotry ;  and,  if  some  speedy  and  well-timed 
precautions  had  not  been  taken,  Naples  would,  perhaps,  have  been  in  more 
danger  of  suffering  from  the  irregularities  of  the  lower  classes  of  inhabit- 
ants than  from  the  angry  volcano." — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  193 

fluctuation  had  happened  in  the  quintessence  of  de- 
bates— numbers  on  the  division.'""  I  remember  a  man  of 
humour  proposing  that,  for  the  convenience  of  the 
greater  part,  the  division  should  always  precede  the 
debate  ;  that  only  they  who  liked  to  talk  should  stay 
and  make  their  speeches,  which  he  supposed  never  de- 
termined or  altered  the  several  votes  :  no  compliment 
to  oratory,  and  still  less  a  panegyric  on  corruption  and 
prejudice  ! 

In  fact,  a  very  considerable  defalcation  from  the 
standing  majority  had  been  expected.  The  inglorious 
and  unprosperous  events  of  the  summer ;  the  general  dis- 
content and  dissatisfaction  that  are  arisen  ;  but,  above 
all,  the  crack  that  has  happened  in  the  Administration 
itself  by  the  resignations  of  Lord  Gower  and  Lord  Wey- 
mouth,! which  at  least  implied  apprehension  in  them 
that  the  edifice  was  falling,  and  which,  being  timed  at 
the  very  eve  of  Parliament,  were  certainly  not  in- 
tended to  prop  it ;  and  it  having  been  as  artfully  di- 
vulged, that  endeavours  had  been  made  to  terrify  Lord 
North  from  his  post,  by  assuring  him  he  could  not 
maintain  it  :  such  a  concurrence  of  untoward  circum- 
stances naturally  suggested  a  vision  of  much  diminution 
of  the  majority  ;  and  such  a  vision  naturally  is  apt  to 

*  After  a  long  debate,  an  Amendment  to  the  Address  of  Thanks' 
which  was  proposed  by  Lord  John  Cavendish,  was  rejected  by  a  majority 
of  233  to  134.— Ed. 

t  A  few  days  before  the  meeting  of  Parliament,  Earl  Gower  resigned 
his  post  of  President  of  the  Council,  and  was  succeeded  by  Earl  Bathurst ; 
Lord  Weymouth  also  resigned  his  situation  of  Secretary  of  State  for  the 
Southern  Department,  and  was  succeeded  by  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough, 
— En. 

VOL.   III. NEW  SERIES.  0 


194  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

realize  it,  by  the  caution  of  such  prudent  senators  as 
love  to  proceed  on  sure  ground,  and  absent  themselves 
till  the  prospect  is  more  clear. 

Lord  North,  however,  had  courage  to  stand  the  issue 
of  a  battle  ;  his  troops  were  better  disciplined  than 
had  been  expected,  and  the  Lords  Gower  and  Wey- 
mouth found  that  nobody  had  been  frightened  but 
themselves.  What  the  latter  feared,  no  mortal  can 
guess  ;  for  he  is  actually  run  away  to  Longleate,  and  no 
persuasions  could  retain  him.  The  deserted  would 
not  impeach  him  for  what  they  had  co-operated  in  ; 
and,  if  beaten,  the  victorious  would  have  spared  him  for 
the  merit  of  having  opened  a  gate  to  their  success. — 
But  enough  of  such  a  recreant ! 

The  other  deserter  has  not  yet  gone  over  to  the 
enemy.  He  will  wait,  no  doubt,  till  some  new  fact 
leads  him  to  thinking  it  much  more  heinous  than  all 
that  is  past.  In  the  mean  time,  to  console  themselves 
for  the  little  mischief  their  flight  has  occasioned,  their 
small  squadron  of  friends  affect  to  impute  the  bulk  of 
the  majority,  on  Thursday  last,  to  the  intemperance 
of  the  Amendment  proposed  by  the  Opposition  to  the 
Address.  The  vacancies  are  supplied  by  Lord  Bathurst 
as  President,  and  by  Lord  Hillsborough  as  Secretary  of 
State.  You  must  not  expect,  however,  that  the  storm 
is  quite  dispersed.  Disappointment  is  no  composer  to 
some  minds. 

Fortune  has  shown  us  some  partiality.  D'Estaing's 
fleet  of  twenty-two  ships  has  been  dispersed,  and  pro- 
bably suffered  considerably,  by  a  terrible  tempest  that 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  1  J)5 

lasted  for  three  days  off  Carolina.  Thus,  the  West 
Indies  are  likely  to  be  saved.  The  danger  is,  that  this 
favourable  event  may  re-invigorate  our  impracticable 
phrenzy  of  reconquering  America  ;  the  most  certain 
way  of  our  not  recovering  it.  Ireland  is  in  great  dan- 
ger, if  we  apply  our  American  ideas  to  it  ;  but,  alas ! 
experience  and  misfortune  have  not  yet  operated  as 
medicines  ! 

That  old  meteor,  Wilkes,  has  again  risen  above  the 
horizon,  when  he  had  long  seemed  virtually  extinct. 
The  citizens,  revolted  from  the  Court  on  the  late  dis- 
graces, have  voted  him  into  the  post  of  Chamberlain  of 
London ;  a  place  of  fifteen  hundred  pounds  a-year.~;:" 
How  Massaniello  and  Rienzi  and  Jack  Cade  would 
stare  at  seeing  him  sit  down  as  comfortably  as  an 
alderman  of  London  ! — If  he  should  die  of  a  surfeit  of 
custard  at  last ! 

I  had  forgotten  myself ;  but  you  see  I  am  much 
better  to-day.  My  pains  are  gone  off,  and  I  rose  to- 
day at  noon,  after  keeping  my  bed  three  days.  Suffer- 
ings have  taught  me  to  estimate  their  absence  at  the 
rate  of  health  and  happiness. 

Thank  you  for  the  poem  of  Mrs.  Montagu  on  Shake- 
speare, which  your  nephew  brought  me.  I  do  not  ad- 
mire the  poetry,  though  in  Italian,  which  methinks  it 
is  difficult  to  prevent  from  sounding  poetical  ;  but  I 
like  much  the  author's  just  attack  on  Voltaire  for  hav- 
ing pillaged  Shakespeare,  at  whom  he  died  railing. 

*  Wilkes  had  recently  been  elected  Chamberlain  of  the  City  of  London, 
by  a  majority  of  2330  to  370.  He  held  the  lucrative  situation  till  his 
death,  in  1797. — Ed. 

o  2 


196  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

29th. 

If  one  meteor  is  re-illuminated,  another  is  extinct. 
Lord  Lyttelton*  is  dead  suddenly.     Suddenly  in  this 
country  is  always  at  first  construed  to  mean,  by  a 
pistol.      But  it  is  not  known  yet  whether  Mars  or 
Venus  supplied  the  ammunition  ;  and  I  may  not  be 
very  accurate  in  dates,  though  they  lie  within  the 
compass  of  three  days.     He  had  on  Thursday  made 
a   violent  speech    against   the   Administration,   under 
which  he  held  the  post  of  Chief  Justice  in  Eyre  ;  but 
this  was  not  new  :  he  was  apt  to  go  point-blank  into 
all  extremes  without  any  parenthesis  or  decency,  nor 
ever  boggled  at  contradicting  his  own  words.      The 
story  given  out  is,   that  he  looked  ill,  and  had  said 
he  should  not  live  three  days  ;  that,  however,  he  had 
gone  to  his  house  at  Epsom  that  night,  or  next  day, 
with  a  caravan  of  nymphs  ;  and  on  Saturday  night  had 
retired  before  supper  to  take  rhubarb,  returned,  supped 
heartily,  went  into  the  next  room  again,  and  died  in 
an  instant.f      I  should  have  said  more  perhaps   on 

*  Thomas,  second  Lord  Lyttelton.     See  ante,  p.  143.     His  lordship 
had  not  completed  his  thirty-sixth  year. — Ed. 

t  This  is  very  probably  the  real  story  :  another,  however,  of  his,  pre- 
dicting the  period  of  his  death  within  a  few  minutes,  upon  the  in- 
formation of  an  apparition,  has  been  frequently  quoted  as  the  true  one. 
It  will  be  found  in  Nash's  History  of  Worcestershire  ;  and  Boswell 
states,  that  Dr.  Johnson  said  he  considered  it  the  most  extraordinary 
thing  that  had  happened  in  his  day,  and  that  he  had  heard  it  with  his 
own  cars  from  Lord  Westcote.  Wraxall's  version  of  it,  in  his  Histo- 
rical Memoirs,  is,  that  the  dying  lord  heard  a  noise  at  his  chamber  win- 
dow resembling  the  fluttering  of  a  dove  or  pigeon,  and  saw  a  female 
figure,  which,  approaching  the  foot  of  the  bed,  announced  to  him  that  he 
would  die  in  three  days  from  that  time.     Sir  Nathaniel  adds,  that  in 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  197 

Lord  Lyttclton,  but  was  interrupted,  and  told  a  fresh 
event,  that  will  stifle  the  other.  Charles  Fox  has  been 
slightly  wounded  in  the  side  this  morning  in  a  duel. 
Adam,  a  Scot,  and  nephew  of  the  architects,  a  man 
of  a  very  suspicious  character,  has  for  two  or  three 
years  distinguished  himself  by  absurd  speeches, — often, 
though  a  Scot,  pointed  against  Lord  North  :  but  on 
Thursday  last  he  uttered  a  most  ridiculous  one,  in 
which  he  said,  that,  though  he  had  left  the  House  last 
year  prepossessed  against  Administration,  yet  he  had 
been  converted  to  them  by  reading  the  examinations 
of  the  Generals ;  who,  he  perceived,  had  been  more  to 
blame  than  the  Ministers.  This  rhapsody  Fox  had 
ridiculed  in  the  highest  degree  with  infinite  wit  and 
argument.  Adam  felt  the  sarcasm  to  the  quick,  and 
after  the  debate  asked  an  explanation.  Fox  told  him 
he  had  meant  no  personal  invective,  and  they  parted. 
At  three  this  morning  Adam  sent  an  officer  to  Fox, 
to  say  he  had  read  a  very  injurious  detail  of  the  affair 
in  the  newspapers,  and  desired  Fox  to  contradict  it. 
He  wrote  an  answer,  saying  he  was  not  answerable 

1783  lie  paid  a  visit  to  the  identical  bed-chamber,  where  the  casement  at 
which  the  dove  appeared  to  flutter  was  shown  him  ;  and,  further,  that  he 
had  frequently  seen  a  painting  executed  by  the  Dowager  Lady  Lyttclton, 
expressly  to  commemorate  the  event.  In  reference  to  these  stories,  Sir 
Walter  Scott  says,  in  his  Dcmonology,  "  but  of  late  it  has  been  said  and 
published,  that  the  unfortunate  nobleman  had  previously  determined  to 
take  poison,  and  of  course  had  it  in  his  own  power  to  ascertain  the  exe- 
cution of  the  prediction  :  it  was  no  doubt  singular,  that  a  man  who  me- 
ditated his  exit  from  the  world  should  have  chosen  to  play  such  a  trick 
on  his  friends  ;  but  it  is  still  more  credible  that  a  whimsical  man 
should  do  so  wild  a  thing,  than  that  a  messenger  should  be  sent  from  the 
dead  to  tell  a  libertine  at  what  precise  time  he  should  expire." — Ed. 


198  THE  HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

for  newspapers  ;  but  assured  him,  under  his  hand,  that 
he  had  meant  nothing  injurious,  and  Adam  might 
shoAV  that  reply.  Not  content,  Adam  returned,  that 
his  friends  were  not  satisfied,  and  that  Mr.  Fox  must 
print  the  letter.  "  That  is  too  much,"  said  Fox  ;  and 
at  eight  this  morning  they  went  into  Hyde  Park. 
Adam  fired  first,  and  the  ball  grazed  Fox's  side 
slightly  ;  but  he  fired,  and  then  said,  "  Mr.  Adam,  are 
you  satisfied  V  You  will  feel  horror  at  the  reply. 
"  No,"  said  Adam,  "  you  must  print  your  letter."  Still, 
no,  said  Fox.  Adam  fired  again,  and  missed ;  and 
then  Fox  fired  in  the  air,  and  it  ended.""* 

P.S.  As  my  letter  was  sealing,  to  which  my  paper 
would  not  let  me  make  any  conclusion,  I  received 
yours  of  the  13th  ;  to  which,  being  just  got  into  bed, 
I  cannot  reply  now.  All  I  will  say  is,  that  great  part 
of  your  news  is  true  ;  many  of  the  Spanish  vessels  are 
returned  home  ;  D'Estaing's  fleet  is  dispersed  ;  I  know 
nothing  of  Martinico  and  their  Domingo-men. — Your 

*  This  is  not  correct.  The  following  is  the  statement  of  the  two  se- 
conds, General  Fitzpatrick  and  Major  Humberston  : — "  Mr.  Adam  fired, 
and  wounded  Mr.  Fox,  which  we  believe  was  not  at  all  perceived  by  Mr. 
Adam,  and  it  was  not  distinctly  seen  by  either  of  ourselves.  Mr.  Fox 
fired  without  effect  ;  we  then  interfered,  asking  Mr.  Adam  if  he  was 
satisfied.  Mr.  Adam  replied,  '  Will  Mr.  Fox  declare  he  meant  no  per- 
sonal attack  upon  my  character?'  Upon  which  Mr.  Fox  said,  this  was 
no  place  for  apologies,  and  desired  him  to  go  on.  Mr.  Adam  fired  his 
second  pistol  without  effect ;  Mr.  Fox  fired  his  remaining  pistol  in  the 
air ;  and  then  saying,  as  the  affair  was  ended,  he  had  no  difficulty  in 
declaring  that  he  meant  no  more  personal  affront  to  Mr.  Adam  than 
lie  did  to  either  of  the  other  gentlemen  present.  Mr.  Adam  replied, 
'  Sir,  you  have  behaved  like  a  man  of  honour.'  Mr.  Fox  then  men- 
tioned that  he  believed  himself  wounded  ;  and,  upon  opening  his  waist- 
coat, it  was  found  it  was  so,  but,  to  all  appearance,  slightly." — Ed. 


TO   SIR    HORACE    MANN.  199 

nephew  was  with  me  this  morning:  I  rejoice  in  what 
you  tell  rne  of  Ids  views. 


LETTER  CCCXIX. 

Berkeley  Square,  Dec.  20,  1779. 

Since  mine  of  the  30th  of  last  month,  I  have  not 
been  able  to  write  a  line  myself ;  nor  can  yet :  the 
gout  took  and  keeps  possession  of  my  right  hand,  and 
returned  last  week  into  the  foot,  knee,  and  wrist  of 
the  same  side.  I  think  it  is  again  departing  ;  but, 
like  war,  it  makes  many  skirmishes  after  one  thinks 
the  campaign  is  over.  Your  nephew,  I  hope  and 
believe,  has  written  more  than  once  in  the  interval ; 
and,  I  suppose,  given  you  a  sketch  of  Parliamentary 
transactions,  which,  though  warm  enough,  have  pro- 
duced no  material  event  or  alteration.  The  most 
important  object  of  all  even  now  in  question  has  not 
received  the  least  rub ;  and,  which  is  better  still, 
promises  all  appearance  of  being  crowned  with  success. 
Great  concessions  to  Ireland  have  been  adopted,  are 
sailing  through  both  Houses  with  favourable  gales, 
have  been  notified  to  Ireland,  and  have  pleased  there, 
and  we  trust  will  restore  harmony  between  these 
islands.  We  have  the  sense  to  trespass  on  the  for- 
malities of  Christmas,  and  for  once  prefer  wisdom  to 
going  out  of  town  the  moment  it  is  fashionable.""" 

*  On  the  1st  of  December  Lord  North  had  brought  in  his  Propositions 
for  the  relief  of  the  trade  of  Ireland.     In  speaking  of  the  minister's  speech 


200  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

The  holidays,  however,  are  not  without  subjects 
of  rejoicing  ;  we  have  taken  from  Spain  a  sturdy  fort 
on  the  Musquito  shore,  two  rich  register  ships,  and 
prejudiced  them  still  more  by  bringing  off  the  pro- 
vision of  quicksilver  for  their  mines,  which  the  captors 
nobly  refused  to  restore  for  the  large  offer  of  three 
hundred  thousand  pounds.  The  generous  tars,  too, 
have  admitted  their  companions  the  landmen  into  a 
participation  of  the  booty.  One  sailor  shines  brighter 
than  all  their  constellation  :  one  of  the  first  to  mount 
the  scaling-ladder,  he  jumped  on  the  platform  with  a 
sabre  in  each  hand ;  but,  finding  there  a  Spaniard 
swordless,  the  Briton,  with  the  air  of  a  Paladin,  tossed 
one  of  his  weapons  to  him,  and  said,  "  Now  we  arc 
on  equal  terms  !" 

Having  no  more  public  events  to  tell  you,  I  am 
sorry  I  must  leap  to  a  private  story,  in  which  there  is 
far  from  being  either  bravery  or  gallantry,  but  which 
is  savage  enough  to  have  been  transmitted  from  the 
barbarians  on  the  Musquito  shore,  whether  Indian  or 
Spanish  ;  for  the  latter,  who  had  previously  taken  a 
fort  from  us,  had  acted  a  little  in  the  style  of  their 
original  exploits  in  America.  Well !  but  my  story 
comes    only   'cross   the   Irish    Channel.      Lord    C,  a 

upon  this  occasion,  Hardy,  in  his  Memoirs  of  Lord  Charlemont,  says, 
"  It  is  due  to  the  memory  of  that  most  amiable  man,  to  state,  that  his 
speech  on  moving  the  commercial  resolutions  was  able,  liberal,  and  con- 
ciliatory. It  contains  the  amplest  information  on  the  subject.  The  re- 
solutions which  re-opened  the  woollen  trade  to  Ireland,  and  gave  us  a 
freedom  of  commerce  with  the  British  colonies,  on  Certain  stipulations, 
were  received  in  this  country  with  joy  and  gratitude.  Dublin  was  illu- 
minated, and  universal  satisfaction  prevailed." — En. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  201 

recent  peer  of  that  kingdom  and  married  to  a  great 
heiress  there,  a  very  amiable  woman,  had,  however, 
a  more  favourite  mistress.  The  nymph,  like  my  lord, 
was  no  mirror  of  constancy,  but  preferred  a  younger, 
handsomer  swain.  The  peer,  frantic  with  jealousy, 
discovered  an  assignation,  and,  hiring  four  bravoes, 
broke  in  upon  the  lovers ;  when,  presenting  a  pistol 
to  the  head  of  his  rival,  he  bade  him  make  instant 
option  of  being  shot,  or  reduced  to  the  inability  of 
giving  any  man  jealousy.  The  poor  young  man  was 
so  ungallant  as  to  prefer  a  chance  for  life  on  any 
terms.  The  brutal  lord  ordered  his  four  ruffians  to 
seize  the  criminal,  and  with  his  own  hand  performed 
the  bloody  operation.  The  victim  died  the  next  day, 
the  murderer  escaped,  but  one  of  his  accomplices  is 
taken. 

Dec.  21st. 

We  seem  to  have  made  a  little  eruption  back  into 
the  year  1759,  for  victories  have  arrived,  for  two  days 
together.  D'Estaing  is  defeated,  and  wounded  in  two 
places,  at  the  siege  of  the  Savannah  in  Georgia,  and 
has  lost  fifteen  hundred  men  ;  so  says  the  Extra- 
ordinary Gazette  :  but  I  must  own  there  seems  to  be 
a  great  hiatus  in  the  authority ;  for  it  comes  from 
nobody  concerned  in  the  action,  not  even  to  those 
that  sent  it  to  us.  Indeed,  there  is  nothing  contra- 
dictory that  we  have  not  believed  about  D'Estaing 
within  these  forty-eight  hours  :  he  himself,  with  four 
other  ships  and  sixteen  transports  was  sworn  to  be 
at  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  by  one  that  saw  them  there, 


202  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

or  might  have  seen  them  there,  as  he  was  close  by 
when  they  set  out.  Then  he  was  landed  in  France  ;  and 
then  he  was  repulsed  in  Georgia ;  and  then  his  whole 
fleet  revives,  and  re -assembles,  and  blocks  up  the  port 
of  the  Savannah  :  and  now  he  himself  is  indubitably 
at  Paris,  as  letters  thence  last  night  positively  affirm.*"" 
However,  the  Park  and  Tower  guns  firmly  believe  the 
Gazette's  account,  and  huzza'd  yesterday  morning.  I 
hope  they  were  in  the  right,  excepting  on  the  entire 
existence  of  D'Estaing's  squadron. 

Well !  you  may  hold  up  your  head  a  little  vis  a  vis 
de  Monsieur  de  Barbantcm.  If  new  triumphs  do  not 
pour  in  too  fast,  I  hope  to  be  able  to  write  the  next 
myself.  At  present  I  am  party  per  pale,  gout  and 
health  ;  but  unluckily  the  former  is  on  the  dexter  side, 
and  makes  it  void. 

*  Count  D'Estaing  totally  abandoned  the  coast  of  America  early  in 
November,  and  proceeded  with  the  greater  part  of  his  fleet  directly  to 
France  ;  the  rest  having  returned  to  the  West  Indies.  Such  was  the  issue 
of  his  American  campaign.  The  Count's  character  is  thus  drawn  by  Mr. 
Cooper,  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Franklin  : — "  I  have  the  greatest  respect  for  him. 
His  great  talents  as  a  commander  ;  his  intrepidity,  vigilance,  secrecy,  as- 
siduity, quick  decision,  prudence,  and  unabated  affection  to  the  common 
cause,  united  with  a  surprising  command  of  himself  in  delicate  circum- 
stances, and  on  the  most  trying  occasions,  I  can  never  sufficiently 
commend."  D'Estaing  commenced  his  career  by  serving  in  the  East 
Indies  under  the  unfortunate  M.  Lally,  when  he  was  taken  prisoner  by 
the  English,  and  sent  home  on  his  parole.  Having  engaged  in  hostilities 
again  before  he  had  been  regularly  exchanged,  he  was  taken  again,  and 
imprisoned  at  Portsmouth.  On  obtaining  his  freedom  he  vowed  eternal 
hatred  to  the  English,  which  he  endeavoured  to  wreak  during  the  Ameri- 
can war.  At  the  capture  of  the  island  of  Grenada  he  distinguished  him- 
self. Becoming  a  victim  in  the  proscriptions  of  1793,  he  suffered  under 
the  guillotine,  as  a  counter-revolutionist,  in  the  following  year. — En. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  '2(V.} 


LETTER  CCCXX. 


Berkeley  Square,  Jan.  4,  1780. 

I  am  going  to  write  a  short  letter  in  quantity,  but 
a  very  serious  one  in  matter.  A  stroke  has  been 
struck  that  seems  pregnant  with  another  war — a  war 
with  Holland.  Advice  had  been  received  of  large  sup- 
plies of  naval  stores  being  ready  to  sail  for  Brest,  fur- 
nished by  the  warm  friends  of  France,  the  Amsterdam- 
mers  ;  stores  essential  to  the  re-equipment  of  the  French 
navy,  and  as  repugnant  to  the  treaties  subsisting  be- 
tween us  and  the  States.  These  merchantmen  pro- 
posed to  take  advantage  of  a  convoy  going  to  the 
Levant  and  other  places,  the  States  not  countenancing 
that  manoeuvre.  It  was  determined  not  to  wink  at 
such  an  outrage,  but  to  hazard  complaints  or  resent- 
ment, when  such  a  blow  could  be  given  to  the  farther 
enterprizes  of  our  capital  enemies.  Captain  Field- 
ing, with  five  men-of-war  of  the  line,  was  ordered  to 
seize  the  whole  counterband  trade,  and  has  executed 
what  he  could.  He  has  brought  into  Plymouth  eight 
merchantmen  and  three  men-of-war,  with  their  Ad- 
miral. The  latter  refused  to  allow  a  search  ;  some 
shot  were  exchanged,  but  in  air,  on  both  sides,  and 
then  the  Dutchmen  struck.  Fielding  desired  him  to 
re-hoist  his  flag,  but  he  refused,  and  said  he  must 
accompany  his  convoy  ;  thus  creating  himself  a  pri- 
soner. 

I  have  related  this  event  as  vaguely — that  is,  as  cau- 
tiously—  as  I  could  :  first,  because  I  know  no  particulars 


204  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

from  authority,  for  it  was  but  yesterday  at  noon  that 
the  notice  arrived  ;  and  secondly,  because  I  have  heard 
various  accounts  ;  and  lastly,  because  I  have  been  so 
steeled  against  sudden  belief  by  lies  from  all  quarters 
for  these  five  years,  that  I  do  not  trust  my  eyes,  ears, 
or  reason,  and  still  less  those  instruments  of  anybody 
else. 

There  are  two  uncomely  features  in  the  counte- 
nance of  this  business.  The  first  is,  disappointment. 
Though  the  captured  stores  are  counterband,  they 
consist  only  of  hemp  and  iron,  not  of  masts  and  tim- 
ber, as  we  expected,  and  which  are  what  the  French 
want.  Whether  the  magazines  of  those  materials  have 
escaped,  or  have  not  sailed,  we — that  is,  I — do  not  know ; 
but,  when  all  the  Ratisbons  in  Europe  are  to  discuss 
our  enterprize,  it  is  not  pleasant  to  have  trespassed  on 
punctilios, — if  we,  and  not  the  Dutch,  were  the  aggres- 
sors,— and  not  to  have  been  crowned  with  success. 

Thus  we  have  involved  ourselves  fruitlessly  in  the 
second  inconvenience,  of  having,  perhaps,  tapped  a  new 
war,  without  previous  indemnification.  You  diploma- 
tics must  canvass  all  this  ;  and  I  hope  it  will  be  left 
to  such  quiet  disputants,  and  not  be  referred  to  red- 
coats and  trowsers.  I  have  given  you  your  cue,  till 
you  receive  better  instructions.  I  am  sorry  to  open 
the  fortieth  year  of  our  correspondence  by  opening 
another  of  Janus's  temples  ;  better,  however,  in  Hol- 
land than  in  Ireland,  where  we  have  got  a  strong 
friendly  army  instead  of  a  rebellion. 

The  weakness  of  my  hand  should  not  serve  me  for 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  205 

an  excuse,  had  I  more  to  tell  you.  This  right  hand  is 
the  only  limb  not  recovered  ;  yet,  dreading  another  re- 
lapse, I  have  not  yet  ventured  to  take  the  air.  Per- 
haps age,  and  weariness  of  such  frequent  returns,  re- 
bate my  spirit.  Illness,  that  must  be  repeated,  takes 
off  the  edge  from  the  enjoyment  of  health  ;  and,  though 
I  seem  to  have  patience,  it  is  rather  a  state  of  discom- 
fort. No  matter  what,  I  am  wearing  out  ;  yet  take 
great  care  of  myself,  more  from  dread  of  decrepitude 
than  from  desire  of  life,  in  which  I  can  have  few  joys. 
I  have  no  affected  indifference  ;  for  nothing,  not  even 
indifference  if  affected,  is  becoming  in  the  decline  of 
life.  Adieu,  my  good  friend  of  above  forty  years ! 
Sure,  Orestes  and  Pylades,  if  they  were  inseparable, 
could  not  pretend  to  compare  with  us,  who  have  not 
set  eyes  on  one  another  for  nine-and-thirty  years ! 


LETTER  CCCXXI. 

Berkeley  Square,  Jan.  13,  1780. 

In  consequence  of  my  last,  it  is  right  to  make 
you  easy,  and  tell  you  that  I  think  we  shall  not  have 
a  Dutch  war ;  at  least,  nobody  seems  to  expect  it. 
What  excuses  we  have  made,  I  do  not  know  ;  but  I 
imagine  the  Hollanders  are  glad  to  gain  by  both  sides, 
and  glad  not  to  be  forced  to  quarrel  with  either. 

What  might  have  been  expected  much  sooner,  ap- 
pears at  last, — a  good  deal  of  discontent  ;  but  chiefly 
where  it  was  not  much  expected.     The  country  gentle- 


206  THE    HON.    HORACE    WALPOLE 

men,  after  encouraging  the  Court  to  war  with  America, 
now,  not  very  decently,  are  angry  at  the  expense.  As 
they  have  long  seen  the  profusion,  it  would  have  been 
happy  had  they  murmured  sooner.  Very  serious  Asso- 
ciations are  forming  in  many  counties  ;  and  orders, 
under  the  title  of  petitions,  coming  to  Parliament  for 
correcting  abuses. *  They  talk  of  the  waste  of  money; 
are  silent  on  the  thousands  of  lives  that  have  been  sa- 
crificed— but  when  are  human  lives  counted  by  any 
side  ? 

The  French,  who  may  measure  with  us  in  folly,  and 
have  exceeded  us  in  ridiculous  boasts,  have  been  ex- 
travagant in  their  reception  of  D'Estaing,  who  has 
shown  nothing  but  madness  and  incapacity.  How  the 
northern  monarchs,  who  have  at  least  exhibited  talents 
for  war  and  politics,  must  despise  the  last  campaign  of 
England  and  France  1 

I  am  once  more  got  abroad,  but  more  pleased  to  be 
able  to  do  so,  than  charmed  with  anything  I  have  to 
do.  Having  outlived  the  glory  and  felicity  of  my 
country,  I  carry  that  reflection  with  me  wherever  I  go. 
Last  night,  at  Strawberry  Hill,  I  took  up,  to  divert  my 

*  The  business  of  the  Associations  for  the  redress  of  grievances  was 
commenced  during  the  Christmas  recess  ;  and  the  adoption  of  this  mode 
of  procuring  a  reform  in  the  executive  departments  of  the  State  not  only 
becoming  general,  but  the  minds  of  the  people  being  warmed  by  these 
meetings,  the  views  of  many,  and  those  persons  of  no  mean  weio-ht  and 
consequence,  were  extended  still  farther  ;  and  they  gradually  beoan  to 
consider  that  nothing  less  than  a  reform  in  the  constitution  of  Parliament 
itself,  by  shortening  its  duration,  and  obtaining  a  more  equal  representa- 
tion of  the  people,  could  effectually  prevent  a  return  of  similar  evils. 
The  great  county  of  York  led  the  way,  and  set  the  example  to  the  rest  of 
the  kingdom. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  207 


thoughts,  a  volume  of  letters  to  Swift  from  Briling- 
broke,  Bathurst,  and  Gay  ;  and  what  was  there  but 
lamentations  on  the  ruin  of  England,  in  that  Eera  of  its 
prosperity  and  peace,  from  wretches  who  thought  their 
own  want  of  power  a  proof  that  their  country  was  un- 
done !  Oh,  my  father !  twenty  years  of  peace,  and 
credit,  and  happiness,  and  liberty,  were  punishments 
to  rascals  who  weighed  everything  in  the  scales  of  self  % 
It  was  to  the  honour  of  Pope,  that,  though  leagued 
with  such  a  crew,  and  though  an  idolater  of  their  arch- 
fiend Bolingbroke  and  in  awe  of  the  malignant  Swift, 
he  never  gave  into  their  venomous  railings  :  *  railings 
against  a  man  who,  in  twenty  years,  never  attempted 
a  stretch  of  power,  did  nothing  but  the  common  busi- 
ness of  administration,  and  by  that  temperance  and 
steady  virtue,  and  unalterable  good-humour  and  supe- 
rior wisdom,  baffled  all  the  efforts  of  faction,  and  anni- 
hilated  the  falsely  boasted  abilities   of  Bolingbroke, 

*  The  amiable  character  of  Sir  Robert  Walpole  in  private  life  is  thus 
admirably  touched  by  Pope,  in  his  Epilogue  to  the  Satires — 

"  Seen  him  I  have,  but  in  his  happier  hour 
Of  social  pleasure,  ill  exchanged  for  power  ; 
Seen  him,  uncumbered  by  the  venal  tribe, 
Smile  without  art,  and  win  without  a  bribe." 

Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu's  portrait  of  this  eminent  statesman,  in 
his  character  as  a  private  man,  gives  also  a  most  pleasing  idea  of 
him: — 

"  Such  were  the  lively  eyes  and  rosy  hue 
Of  Robin's  face,  when  Robin  first  I  knew, 
The  gay  companion  and  the  favourite  guest ; 
Lov'd  without  awe,  and  without  fear  caress'd, 
His  cheerful  smile,  and  open  honest  look, 
Added  new  graces  to  the  truths  lie  spoke." — Ed. 


208  THE   HON.   HORACE  WALPOLE 

which  now  appear  as  moderate  as  his  character  was  in 
every  light  detestable.  But,  alas !  that  retrospect 
doubled  my  chagrin  instead  of  diverting  it.  I  soon 
forgot  an  impotent  cabal  of  mock-patriots ;  but  the 
scene  they  vainly  sought  to  disturb  rushed  on  my 
mind,  and,  like  Hamlet  on  the  sight  of  Yorick's  skull, 
I  recollected  the  prosperity  of  Denmark  when  my 
father  ruled,  and  compared  it  with  the  present  mo- 
ment !  I  look  about  for  a  Sir  Robert  Walpole  ;  but 
where  is  he  to  be  found  % 

This  is  not  a  letter,  but  a  codicil  to  my  last.  You 
will  soon  probably  have  news  enough — yet  appearances 
are  not  always  pregnancies.  When  there  are  more 
follies  in  a  nation  than  principles  and  system,  they 
counteract  one  another,  and  sometimes,  as  has  just 
happened  in  Ireland,  are  composed  pnlvens  exigui  jactu. 
I  sum  up  my  wishes  in  that  for  peace  :  but  we  are  not 
satisfied  with  persecuting  America,  though  the  mischief 
has  recoiled  on  ourselves ;  nor  France  with  wounding 
us,  though  with  little  other  cause  for  exultation,  and 
with  signal  mischief  to  her  own  trade,  and  with  heavy 
loss  of  seamen  ;  not  to  mention  how  her  armies  are 
shrunk  to  raise  her  marine,  a  sacrifice  she  will  one  day 
rue,  when  the  disciplined  hosts  of  Goths  and  Huns 
begin  to  cast  an  eye  southward.  But  I  seem  to  chuse 
to  read  futurity,  because  I  am  not  likely  to  see  it :  in- 
deed I  am  most  rational  when  I  say  to  myself,  What  is 
all  this  to  me  1  My  thread  is  almost  spun  ;  almost  all 
my  business  here  is  to  bear  pain  with  patience,  and  to 
be  thankful  for  intervals  of  ease.   Though  Emperors  and 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  20!) 

Kings  may  torment  mankind,  they  will  not  disturb 

my  bedchamber  ;    and  so  I  bid  them  and  you  good 
night ! 

P.S.  I  have  made  use  of  a  term  in  this  letter,  which 
I  retract,  having  bestowed  a  title  on  the  captains  and 
subalterns  which  was  due  only  to  the  colonel,  and  not 
enough  for  his  dignity.  Bolingbroke  was  more  than  a 
rascal — he  was  a  villain.  Bathurst,  I  believe,  was  not 
a  dishonest  man,  more  than  he  was  prejudiced  by  party 
against  one  of  the  honestest  and  best  of  men."'  Gay  was 
a  simple  poor  soul,  intoxicated  by  the  friendship  of  men 
of  genius,  and  who  thought  they  must  be  good,  who  con- 
descended to  admire  him.  Swift  was  a  wild-beast,  who 
baited  and  worried  all  mankind  almost,  because  his  in- 
tolerable arrogance,  vanity,  pride,  and  ambition  were 
disappointed  ;  he  abused  Lady  Suffolk,  f  who  tried  and 
wished  to  raise  him,  only  because  she  had  not  power  to 
do  so  :  and  one  is  sure  that  a  man  who  could  deify 
that  silly  woman  Queen  Anne,  would  have  been  more 
profuse  of  incense  to  Queen  Caroline,  who  had  sense,  if 
the  court  he  paid  to  her  had  been  crowned  with  success. 
Such  were  the  men  who  wrote  of  virtue  to  one  another ; 

*  Allen,  first  Earl  Bathurst,  took  an  active  part  in  the  debates  in  the 
House  of  Lords,  in  1742,  for  an  address  for  the  removal  of  Sir  Robert 
Walpole. — Ed. 

t  Henrietta  Hobart,  sister  of  John,  first  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire,  and 
mistress  of  George  the  Second.  [And  to  whom  Pope  addressed  the 
elegant  lines  beginning — 

"  I  know  the  thing  that 's  most  uncommon  ; 
(Envy,  be  silent  and  attend  !) 
I  know  a  reasonable  woman, 

Handsome  and  witty,  yet  a  friend." — Ed.] 

VOL.   III. NEW  SERIES.  P 


210  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

and  even  that  mean  exploded  miser,  Lord  Bath,  pre- 
sumed to  talk  of  virtue  too  ! 


LETTER  CCCXXII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Feb.  6,  1780. 

I  write  only  when  I  have  facts  to  send.  Detached 
scenes  there  have  been  in  different  provinces :  they  will 
be  collected  soon  into  a  drama  in  St.  Stephen's  Chapel. 
One  or  two  and  twenty  counties,  and  two  or  three 
towns,  have  voted  petitions.  But  in  Northamptonshire 
Lord  Spencer  was  disappointed,  and  a  very  moderate 
petition  was  ordered.  The  same  happened  at  Carlisle. 
At  first,  the  Court  was  struck  dumb,  but  have  begun  to 
rally.  Counter-protests  have  been  signed  in  Hertford 
and  Huntingdon  shires,  in  Surry  and  Sussex. *  Last 
Wednesday  a  meeting  was  summoned  in  Westminster 
Hall  :  Charles  Fox  harangued  the  people  finely  and 
warmly  ;  and  not  only  a  petition  was  voted,  but  he 
was  proposed  for  candidate  for  that  city  at  the  next 
general  election,  and  was  accepted  jo}rfully.f  Wilkes 
was  his  zealous  advocate  :  how  few  years  since  a  public 

*  These  counter-protests  did  not  oppose  the  prayer  of  the  petitions  ; 
but  the  protestors  were  of  opinion,  that  the  whole  ought  to  be  left  to  the 
discretion  of  Parliament,  in  whose  public  spirit  and  integrity  they  thought 
it  improper  to  express  any  sort  of  distrust. — Ed. 

t  Mr.  Fox  took  the  chair  at  this  meeting.  A  committee,  consisting 
of  the  Duke  of  Portland,  the  Earls  of  Egremont  and  Temple,  Lords  John 
and  George  Cavendish,  Messrs.  Townshend,  Sawbridge,  Wilkes,  and 
about  ninety  other  noblemen  and  gentlemen,  was  appointed  to  correspond 
with  the  other  committees  throughout  the  kingdom. — En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  211 

breakfast  was  given  at  Holland  House  to  support 
Colonel  Lutterel  against  Wilkes  !  Charles  Fox  and  his 
brother  rode  thence  at  the  head  of  their  friends  to 
Brentford.  Ovid's  Metamorphoses  contains  not  stranger 
transformations  than  party  can  work. 

I  must  introduce  a  new  actor  to  you,  a  Lord  George 
Gordon, — metamorphosed  a  little  too,  for  his  family 
were  Jacobites  and  Roman  Catholics :  he  is  the  Lilburne 
of  the  Scottish  Presbyterians,  and  an  apostle  against 
the  Papists.  He  dresses,  that  is,  wears  long  lank  hair 
about  his  shoulders,  like  the  first  Methodists  ;  though  I 
take  the  modern  ones  to  be  no  Anti-Catholics.  This 
mad  lord — for  so  all  his  family  have  been  too,  and  are — 
has  likewise  assumed  the  patronage  of  Ireland.  Last 
Thursday  he  asked  an  audience  of  the  King,  and,  the 
moment  he  was  admitted  into  the  closet,  began  reading 
an  Irish  pamphlet,  and  continued  for  an  hour,  till  it 
was  so  dark  he  could  not  see  ;  and  then  left  the  pam- 
phlet, exacting  a  promise  on  royal  honour  that  his 
Majesty  would  finish  it.  Were  I  on  the  throne,  I  would 
make  Dr.  Monro  *  a  Groom  of  my  Bedchamber  :  in- 
deed it  has  been  necessary  for  some  time  ;  for,  of  the 
King's  lords,  Lord  Bolingbroke  is  in  a  mad-house,  and 
Lord  Pomfret  and  my  nephew  ought  to  be  there.  The 
last,  being  fond  of  onions,  has  lately  distributed  bushels 
of  that  root  to  his  militia ; — Mr.  Windham  f  will  not  be 
surprised. 

*  Physician  of  Bedlam. 

t  Mr.  Windham  had  been  Lieutenant-Colonel  of  the  Norfolk  Militia 
under  Lord  Orford,  and  had  resigned  on  the  trouble  he  gave  them.  [This 
is  not  correct.     Mr.  Windham  was  Major,  not  Lieutenant-Colonel.     His 

p  2 


212  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

By  the  tenor  of  the  petitions  you  would  think  we 
were  starving ;  yet  there  is  a  little  coin  stirring. 
Within  this  week  there  has  been  a  cast  at  hazard  at 
the  Cocoa  Tree,  the  difference  of  which  amounted  to 
an  hundred  and  four-score  thousand  pounds.  Mr. 
O'Birnc,  an  Irish  gamester,  had  won  one  hundred  thou- 
sand pounds  of  a  young  Mr.  Harvey  of  Chigwell,  just 
started  from  a  midshipman*  into  an  estate  by  his  elder 
brother's  death.  O'Birne  said,  "  You  can  never  pay 
me."  "  I  can,"  said  the  youth ;  "  my  estate  will  sell  for 
the  debt."  " No,"  said  0. ;  "I  will  win  ten  thou- 
sand— you  shall  throw  for  the  odd  ninety."  They  did, 
and  Harvey  won. 

However,  as  it  is  a  little  necessary  to  cast  about  for 
resources,  it  is  just  got  abroad,  that  about  a  year  ago 
we  took  possession  of  a  trifling  district  in  India  called 
the  Province  of  Oude,  which  contains  four  millions  of 
inhabitants,  produces  between  three  and  four  millions 
of  revenue,  and  has  an  army  of  30,000  men  :  it  was 
scarce  thought  of  consequence  enough  to  deserve  an 
article  in  the  newspapers.  If  you  are  so  old-style  as 
to  ask  how  we  came  to  take  possession,  I  answer,  by 
the  new  law  of  nations  ;  by  the  law  by  which  Poland 
was  divided.    You  will  find  it  in  the  future  editions  of 

resignation  is  distinctly  stated  by  his  biographer  to  have  been  occasioned 
by  a  severe  illness  ;  on  his  recovery  from  which  he  visited  the  Continent. 
—Ed.] 

*  This  young  midshipman  was  afterwards  Admiral  Sir  Eliab  Harvey, 
Knt.,  G.C.B.,  and  distinguished  himself  as  one  of  the  heroes  of  Trafalgar. 
He  sat  in  the  House  of  Commons  for  the  town  of  Maiden  from  17>sO 
to  1784,  and  for  the  county  of  Essex  from  1802  to  his  death  in  1830. 
—En. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  213 

Grotius,  tit.  "Si  une  terre  est  a  la  bienseance  d'un 
grand  Prince."  Oude  appertained  by  that  very  law  to 
the  kite  Sujah  Do  win.  His  successors  were  weak  men, 
which  in  India  is  incapacity.  Their  Majesties  the 
East-India  Company,  whom  God  long  preserve,  have 
succeeded. 

This  petty  event  has  ascertained  the  existence  of  a 
certain  being,  who,  till  now,  has  not  been  much  more 
than  a  matter  of  faith, — the  Grand  Lama.  There  are 
some  affairs  of  trade  between  the  sovereigns  of  Oude  and 
his  Holiness  the  Lama.  Do  not  imagine  the  East- 
India  Company  have  leisure  to  trouble  their  heads 
about  religion.  Their  commanding  officer  correspond- 
ed with  the  Tartar  Pope,  who,  it  seems,  is  a  very  sen- 
sible man.  The  Attorney-General  asked  this  officer, 
who  is  come  over,  how  the  Lama  wrote.  "  Oh,"  said 
he,  "  like  any  person."  "  Could  I  see  his  letters  V*  said 
Mr.  Wedderburne.  "  Upon  my  word,"  said  the  officer, 
"  when  the  business  was  settled,  I  threw  them  into  the 
fire."  However,  I  hear  that  somebody,  not  quite  so 
mercantile,  has  published  one  of  the  Lama's  letters  in 
the  Philosophical  Transactions.*    Well !  when  we  break 

*  The  letter  here  spoken  of  was  addressed  by  the  Grand  Lama  of 
Thibet  to  Mr.  Hastings,  then  Governor  of  Bengal,  and  received  by  him 
on  the  29th  of  March,  1774.  A  translation  of  it  will  be  found  in  the 
Philosophical  Transactions  for  1778.  It  abounds  in  sentiments  of  jus- 
tice, benevolence,  and  piety,  couched  in  a  simple  style,  not  devoid  of 
dignity,  and  in  general  exempt  from  the  high-flown  compliments  and 
strained  metaphors  so  common  among  the  other  people  of  the  East. 
The  following  is  the  opening  passage :  —  "  The  affairs  of  this  quarter 
in  every  respect  flourish.  I  am  night  and  day  employed  for  the  increase 
of  your  happiness  and  prosperity.  Having  been  informed,  by  travellers 
from  your  quarter,  of  your  exalted  fame  and  reputation,  my  heart,  like 


214  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

iii  Europe,  we  may  pack  up  aud  remove  to  India,  and 
be  emperors  again ! 

Do  you  believe  me,  my  good  sir,  when  I  tell  you  all 
these  strange  tales  %  Do  you  think  me  distracted,  or 
that  your  country  is  so  %  Does  not  this  letter  seem  an 
olio  composed  of  ingredients  picked  out  of  the  history 
of  Charles  L,  of  Clodius  and  Sesostris,  and  the  Arabian 
Nights  %  Yet  I  could  have  coloured  it  higher  without 
trespassing  on  truth  ;  but  when  I,  inured  to  the  cli- 
mate of  my  own  country,  can  scarcely  believe  what  I 
hear  and  see,  how  should  you,  who  converse  only  with 
the  ordinary  race  of  men  and  women,  give  credit  to 
what  I  have  ventured  to  relate,  merely  because  in 
forty  years  I  have  constantly  endeavoured  to  tell  you 
nothing  but  truth  \  Moreover,  I  commonly  reserve 
passages  that  are  not  of  public  notoriety,  not  having 
the  smallest  inclination  to  put  the  credulity  of  foreign 
post-offices  to  the  test.  I  would  have  them  think  that 
we  are  only  mad  with  valour,  and  that  Lord  Chatham's 
cloak  has  been  divided  into  shreds  no  bigger  than  a 
silver  penny  amongst  our  soldiers  and  sailors.     Adieu ! 


the  blossom  of  spring,  abounds  with  satisfaction,  gladness,  and  joy. 
Praise  God  that  the  star  of  your  fortune  is  in  its  ascension.  Praise  him, 
that  happiness  and  ease  are  the  surrounding  attendants  of  myself  and 
family.  Neither  to  molest  nor  persecute  is  my  aim  :  it  is  even  the  cha- 
racteristic of  our  sect  to  deprive  ourselves  of  the  necessary  refreshment 
of  sleep,  should  an  injury  be  done  to  a  single  individual  ;  but,  in  justice 
and  humanity,  1  am  informed  you  surpass  us.  May  you  ever  adorn  the 
seat  of  justice  and  power,  that  mankind  may,  in  the  shadow  of  your 
bosom,  enjoy  the  blessings  of  peace  and  affluence  !" — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  215 

LETTER  CCCXXIII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Feb.  22,  1780. 

I  have  been  waiting  impatiently  for  a  confirma- 
tion of  Sir  George  Rodney's  victory  over  the  Spaniards, 
that  I  might  send  it  to  you  as  a  dose  for  Monsieur  de 
Barbantan  ;  but  either  the  Admiral's  messenger-sloop 
has  been  taken,  or  he  is  still  pursuing  the  flying  ene- 
my, or  gone  to  the  West  Indies.  However,  as  both 
Spain  and  France  allow  that  Sir  George  had  the  ad- 
vantage, there  is  no  dispute  but  on  the  more  or  fewer 
of  his  prizes.  Well !  but  novel  as  triumphs  have  been 
of  late,  this  naval  one,  and  everything  else,  is  drowned 
in  the  present  great  domestic  moment.  I  must  pre- 
pare you  for  a  new  sera — so  new,  and  of  such  late 
birth,  that  I  cannot  pretend  to  tell  you  of  what  it 
will  be  the  sera. 

I  have  mentioned  our  provincial  committees,  peti- 
tions, and  associations.  They  have  spread  into  nearly 
half  the  English  counties,  and  have  acquired  additional 
weight  by  the  approach  of  a  general  election ;  which,  in 
times  at  all  difficult,  always  puts  members  and  candi- 
dates upon  their  good  behaviour.  Spirit  begets  spirit, 
as  lethargy  is  catching  from  lethargy.  Last  week  Lord 
North  was  beaten  at  the  India  House  on  his  bargain 
with  the  Company,  one  of  the  promised  resources. 
Yesterday  was  much  more  fatal  to  him.  Sir  George 
Savile,  to  humour  the  committee  of  Yorkshire,  de- 
manded last  week  a  list  of  the  King's  pensions.  The 
Speaker  was  suddenly  taken  ill,   and  the  House  ad- 


216  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

journed   till   yesterday.     The  Court,  in  the  interval, 
took  the   resolution  of  resisting  the  demand,  and  a 
pitched  battle  was  fought  with  reciprocal  animosity. 
At  one  in  the  morning  Lord  North  carried  a  softening 
of  the  question,  not  a  rejection,  but  by  hvo  voices  ;* 
which  in  Parliamentary  language  or  calculation  (for  in 
such  times  the  calculators   always   desert   a  sinking 
vessel)  is  a  defeat.     The  Tories,  fearing  their  popula- 
rity in  the  country,  had  kept  away.     Some  may  return 
if  the  Crown  is  pressed ;  but   it    will  lose   as  many 
among    the    lookers -out,    who    were   with   it   yester- 
day, as  it  can  recall.     In  short,  I  think  the  Ministers 
must  fall,  and  would  increase  their  own  danger  every 
hour  if  they  stayed.     The  committees  in  the  country 
will  be  animated  by  this  specimen  of  their  importance. 
The  Opposition  will  be  invigorated  by  hope,  and  other 
counties  will  be  hurried  by  and  into  the  torrent.     In 
truth,  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  die  is  cast.     A  change 
of  men  and  measures  may  prevent  that  most  dreadful 
of  evils,  a  civil  war  ;  and,  the  longer  the  Court  attempts 
to  stem  the  current,  the  more  destructive  will  the  de- 
luge be.     It  is  to  be  wished,  too,  that  the  tide,  which 
has  turned  rapidly,  may  be  as  swift  in  its  effects ;  or 
we  shall  be  occupied  by  storms  at  home,  and  not  at- 
tend to  our  wars  without. 

This  is  a  brief  picture,  or  sketch,  which  time  must 
finish.     I   might  expatiate,   or  form  conjectures  ;  but 

*  Sir  George  Savile's  motion  was  for  an  account  of  all  places  for  life 
or  lives,  whether  held  by  patent  or  otherwise  ;  to  which  Lord  North 
moved  to  add  the  words,  "and  payable  at  the  exchequer."  The  amend- 
ment was  carried  by  188  against  186. — En. 


TO   SIR    HORACE   MANN.  217 

you  sec  that  I  cannot  tell  you  more  than  I  have  of 
what  may  be  fact.  I  could  make  reflections  backward, 
but  those  you  do  not  want ;  and  it  is  their  part  to 
make  them  who  drew  themselves  into  such  a  desperate 
situation  from  one  of  perfect  happiness  and  security. 
If  the  Court  is  prudent,  it  will  yield  to  the  first  neces- 
sity, rather  than  hazard  the  last  ;  and  will  then  have 
been  fortunate  that  it  arrived  so  speedily  and  at  once. 
A  change  is  preferable  to  impeachments  or  to  out- 
rages of  the  mob.  I  abhor  bloodshed  and  violence, 
and  heartily  wish  we  may  have  a  quiet  revolution  in 
the  Administration.  Should  authority  interpose  to  pre- 
serve them,  it  will  risk  its  own  annihilation  and  theirs ; 
indeed,  it  ceases  to  be  authority  when  it  resorts  to 
force.  It  delegates  its  power  to  force,  becomes  subject 
to  force,  refers  the  contest  to  the  decision  of  opposite 
forces,  which  is  choosing  chance  for  arbiter,  and  never 
recovers  till  placid  acquiescence  gives  authority  its 
own  true  energy. 

You  shall  hear  again  as  events  arise ;  which  probably 
will  be  numerous.  Things  cannot  remain  in  the  pre- 
sent state,  nor  fall  back  into  their  usual  channel  with- 
out a  change,  or  worse  convulsions. 

Lady  Catharine  Pelham*  is  dead,  at  four-score.  We 
remnants  of  happier  times  should  not  be  sorry  to  quit 
a  scene  so  different  from  what  we  remember.  We 
aged  know  how  few  swim  through  a  turbulent  sea  to 
the   haven  where  they   would   be.     Waves   press   on 

*  Sister  of  John  Manners,  third  Duke  of  Rutland,  and  widow  of  Henry 
Pelhain,  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury. 


218  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

waves  ;  new  actors  thrust  aside  those  who  commenced 
the  commotion  : — but  I  am  running  into  reflections. 
I  return  to  pray  for  tranquillity  for  my  country.  If  it 
is  not  my  lot  to  see  it,  I  shall  but  escape  so  much 
anguish  more  as  I  should  feel  if  witness  to  its  cala- 
mities. 


LETTER  CCCXXIV. 

Berkeley  Square,  March  3,  1780. 

As  my  last  letter  probably  alarmed  you,  I  write 
again  to  tell  you  that  nothing  decisive  has  happened. 
The  troops  of  the  Palace  even  rallied  a  little  yesterday 
on  Mr.  Burke's  Bill  of  Reformation,  or  Reduction,  yet 
with  evident  symptoms  of  caution;  for  Lord  North, 
who  wished  to  defer  the  second  reading,  ventured  to 
put  it  only  to  next  Wednesday,  instead  of  to-day  ; 
and  would  have  carried  a  longer  adjournment  with 
still  greater  difficulty,  for  his  majority  was  but  of  35, 
and  the  minority  remained  195,  a  very  formidable 
number.*  The  Associations  in  the  counties  increase, 
though  not  rapidly  :  yet  it  will  be  difficult  for  the 
Court  to  stem  such  a  torrent ;  and,  I  imagine,  full  as 
difficult  for  any  man  of  temper  to  direct  them  whole- 
somely.    Ireland  is  still  more  impetuous. 

*  Mr.  Burke,  ou  the  11th  of  February,  had  introduced  his  memorable 
bill  for  the  Economical  Reformation  of  the  Civil  and  other  Establish- 
ments. "  Never  can  I  forget,"  says  Gibbon,  in  reference  to  Mr.  Burke's 
speech  upon  the  occasion,  "  the  delight  with  which  that  diffusive  and 
ingenious  orator  was  heard  by  all  sides  of  the  House,  and  even  by  those 
whose  existence  be  proscribed."  The  numbers  for  deferring  the  second 
reading  were  230  against  195. — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  211) 

Fortunately,  happily,  the  tide  abroad  seems  turned. 
Sir  George  Rodney's  victory  proves  more  considerable 
than  it  appeared  at  first.*  It  secures  Gibraltar,  eases 
your  Mediterranean  a  little,  and  must  vex  the  Spa- 
niards and  their  monarch,  not  satisfied  before  witli 
his  cousin  of  Bourbon.  Admiral  Parker  has  had  great 
success  too  amongst  the  latter's  transports.  Oh  !  that 
all  these  elements  of  mischief  may  jumble  into  peace  ! 
Monsieur  Necker  alone  shines  in  the  quarter  of  France  ;f 
but  he  is  carrying  the  war  into  the  domains  of  the 
Church,  where  one  cannot  help  wishing  him  success. 
If  he  can  root  out  monks,  the  Pope  will  have  less 
occasion  to  allow  gras,  because  we  cannot  supply  them 
with  makjre.%  It  is  droll  that  the  Protestant  Necker, 
and  we  Protestant  fishmongers,  should  overset  the  sys- 

*  On  the  7th  of  January,  Admiral  Rodney  fell  in  with  a  fleet  of  mer- 
chant-ships, under  the  convoy  of  seven  men-of-war  ;  the  whole  of  which 
he  captured.  He  soon  after  encountered  Don  Juan  de  Langara's  squa- 
dron, consisting  of  eleven  ships  of  the  line  and  two  frigates,  and  after  an 
action  of  ten  hours'  continuance  succeeded  in  dispossessing  the  enemy  of 
seven  sail  of  the  line. — Ed. 

t  In  pursuance  of  the  plan  of  economy  proposed  hy  M.  Neckcr,  and 
adopted  in  the  King  of  France's  household,  no  less  than  four  hundred 
offices  were  this  year  abolished,  at  one  stroke,  in  that  department.  In  a 
letter  written  at  this  time  by  Madame  du  Deffand  to  Walpole,  there  is, 
in  reference  to  these  projected  reforms  of  M.  Necker,  the  following  pro- 
phetic passage  : — "  Vous  pouvez  etre  sur  qu'il  a  un  furieux  nombre 
d'ennemis  ;  d'abord  tous  ceux  qui  perdent  par  ses  reTormes,  et  puis  ceux 
que  produit  la  jalousie  et  l'envic.  Je  doute  qu'on  lui  laisse  ex^cuter  tous 
ses  projets.  Si  on  les  veut  morceler,  il  nc  l'endurera  pas  ;  il  quittera,  tout 
s'£croulera,  le  credit  sera  perdu,  on  tombera  dans  le  chaos,  ses  ennemis 
triompheront,  ils  pecheront  en  eau  trouble,  et  publieront  que  ses  systemes, 
ses  operations,  n'etaient  que  visions  chimeriques.  (Test  le  pins  grand 
malheur  qui  puisse  arriver  a  ce  pays-ci." — Ed. 

X  The  English  supplied  Leghorn  with  fish,  till  they  lost  the  empire  of 
the  Mediterranean  in  the  time  of  the  American  war. 


220  THE  HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

tern  of  fasting  ;  but  ancient  Alcorans  could  not  foresee 
modern  contingencies ! 

I  have  told  you  that  politics  absorb  all  private  news. 
I  am  going  to  a  ball  this  evening,  which  the  Duke  and 
Duchess  of  Bolton  give  to  their  Royal  Highnesses  of 
Gloucester,  who  have  now  a  very  numerous  Court.  It 
seems  very  improper  for  me  to  be  at  a  ball ;  but  you 
see  that,  on  the  contrary,  it  is  propriety  that  carries 
me  thither.  I  am  heartily  weary  both  of  diversions 
and  politics,  and  am  more  than  half  inclined  to  retire 
to  Strawberry.  I  have  renounced  dining  abroad,  and 
hide  myself  as  much  as  I  can  ;  but  can  one  pin  on 
one's  breast  a  label  to  signify,  that,  though  one  is  sen- 
sible of  being  Methusalem  in  constitution,  one  must 
sometimes  be  seen  in  a  crowd  for  such  and  such  rea- 
sons 1  I  do  often  exaggerate  my  pleas  of  bad  health  ; 
and,  could  I  live  entirely  alone,  would  proclaim  myself 
incurable  :  but,  should  one  repent,  one  becomes  ridi- 
culous by  returning  to  the  world  ;  or  one  must  have 
a  companion,  which  I  never  will  have  ;  or  one  opens 
a  door  to  legatees,  if  one  advertises  ill-health.  Well ! 
I  must  act  with  as  much  common  sense  as  I  can  ;  and, 
when  one  takes  no  part,  one  must  temper  one's  con- 
duct ;  and,  when  the  world  is  too  young  for  one,  not 
shock  it,  nor  contradict  it,  nor  affix  a  peculiar  cha- 
racter, but  trust  to  its  indifference  for  not  drawing 
notice,  when  one  does  not  desire  to  be  noticed.  Rabe- 
lais's  "  Fais  ce  que  tu  voudras"  is  not  very  difficult 
when  one  wishes  to  do  nothing.  I  have  always  been  of- 
fended at  those  who  will  belong  to  a  world  with  which 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  221 

they  have  nothing  to  do.  I  have  perceived  that  every 
age  has  not  only  a  new  language  and  new  modes,  hut 
a  new  way  of  articulating.  At  first  I  thought  myself 
grown  deaf  when  with  young  people  ;  but  perceived 
that  T  understood  my  contemporaries,  though  they 
whispered.  Well !  I  must  go  amongst  those  I  do  not 
comprehend  so  well,  but  shall  leave  them  when  they 
go  to  supper. 


LETTER  CCCXXV. 

Berkeley  Square,  March  14,  1780. 

I  AM  not  going  to  tell  you  that  the  Adminis- 
tration is  changed,  for  as  yet  it  is  not ;  but  it  is 
beaten.  Yesterday,  on  Mr.  Burke's  bill,  the  Opposition 
carried  the  clause  for  the  annihilation  of  the  Board 
of  Trade  by  a  majority  of  eight  votes,  though  the 
Lords  of  Trade  voted  in  their  own  cause.'"*     There  was 

*  On  the  clause  for  aholishing  the  Board  of  Trade,  Mr.  Eden  having 
urged,  rather  unluckily,  in  its  defence,  the  2300  folio  volumes  of  its 
labours,  Mr.  Burke  said,  "  he  was  ready  to  accept  his  defence  of  the 
Board,  hut  not  his  2300  volumes  ;  they  would,  however,  serve  as  a  mo- 
nument, under  which  both  he  and  his  clause  might  he  buried,  and  form  a 
funeral  pile  for  them  as  large  as  one  of  the  pyramids  of  Egypt.  Alas, 
poor  clause  ! "  he  exclaimed  ;  "  if  it  be  thy  fate  to  be  put  to  death, 
thou  shalt  be  gloriously  entombed  !  thou  shalt  lie  under  a  splendid  mau- 
soleum !  the  corners  of  thy  cenotaph  shall  be  supported  by  Locke,  by 
Addison,  by  Prior,  and  by  Molesworth  ! "  Gibbon,  himself  a  member  of 
the  Board,  says  that,  upon  this  occasion,  "  the  Lords  of  Trade  blushed 
at  their  insignificance,  and  Mr.  Eden's  appeal  to  the  2300  volumes  of  our 
Reports  served  only  to  excite  a  general  laugh  :  it  must  be  allowed  that  our 
duty  was  not  intolerably  severe,  and  that  I  enjoyed  many  days  and  weeks 
of  repose,  without  being  called  away  from  my  library  to  the  office  "  The 
numbers  on  the  division  were,  for  abolishing  the  Board  of  Trade  207, 
against  it  199. — Ed. 


222  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

a  strange  scene  of  Billingsgate  between  the  Speaker 
and  the  Minister;  the  former  stooping  to  turn  in- 
former, and  accusing  the  latter  of  breach  of  promise 
on  a  lucrative  job,  in  which  Sir  Fletcher  was  to  have 
been  advantaged.*  It  is  very  Homeric  war  when 
demi-gods  rail,  and  wound  one  another.  Astrea  was 
in  the  right  to  leave  earth,  when  other  divinities  tread 
in  mortal  paths,  and  in  such  dirty  ones.  We,  that 
have  quitted  the  theatre,  are  a  little  scandalized  at 
such  doings,  of  whatever  side  one  is.  I  wish  well  to 
my  country,  but  I  wish  too  that  my  countrymen  de- 
served wishes  a  little  better. 

The  Court  still  holds  out ;  but  there  is  no  recover- 
ing the  ground  that  is  lost.     An  Opposition  so  suc- 

*  During  this  debate  the  fact  first  came  out,  that  the  Speaker  and  the 
Administration  were  not  upon  good  terms.  In  the  course  of  his  speech 
Sir  Fletcher  observed,  that  Lord  North  had  long  withdrawn  all  friendship 
and  confidence  from  him.  Being  called  upon  for  further  explanation, 
he  stated,  that  upon  the  death  of  the  late  Speaker  he  had  been  solicited 
by  the  Duke  of  Grafton  to  accept  of  his  present  situation,  with  an  under- 
standing that,  whenever  an  opportunity  offered,  he  should  hold  the  sine- 
cure office  of  Chief  Justice  in  Eyre,  as  an  equivalent  for  the  advantages 
he  had  given  up  :  notwithstanding  this  compact,  he  had  discovered,  that  a 
negotiation  was  in  train  between  the  Minister  and  the  Chief  Justice  of  the 
Court  of  Common  Pleas,  by  which  the  latter  was  to  retire  on  a  pension, 
for  the  purpose  of  appointing  another  person  to  supply  his  place,  and  to  the 
utter  subversion  of  his  claim.  He  added,  that  money  had  been  proposed 
to  be  given  and  received,  to  bring  about  the  arrangement.  Lord  North 
declared,  that  he  knew  nothing  of  the  transaction  at  the  time,  and  that 
no  such  negotiation  was  on  foot  as  the  one  which  had  been  stated.  This 
brought  on  much  altercation,  which  ran  into  assertion  and  direct  contra- 
diction between  the  Speaker  and  the  Minister,  and  which  gave  rise  to  a 
scene  that  had  hardly  ever  been  exhibited  in  the  House.  The  complaint 
and  conduct  of  the  Speaker  was  commented  upon  in  a  strain  of  bitter 
sarcasm  and  ironical  satire  by  Mr.  Wedderbum,  the  law-officer  alluded 
to —En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  2'23 

ccssfiil  will  not  loiter  at  Capua.  All  the  mercenaries 
will  follow  Sir  Fletcher,  and  pretend  it  is  the  cry  of 
the  nation  that  they  obey.  The  longer,  too,  the  citadel 
is  maintained,  the  more  impatient  the  people  will  be 
to  have  it  taken,  and  the  more  they  will  be  excited 
to  expect  it.  In  short,  a  speedy  change  is  the  best 
event  that  can  happen.  Passions  are  so  heated,  that 
a  little  may  set  them  in  a  blaze  ;  and,  though  refor- 
mation may  be  the  cause,  it  is  not  good  that  reformers 
should  be  in  a  rage  before  they  begin  their  work. 
They  undo  more  than  they  can  repair,  punish  without 
trial,  and  disgrace  the  service  before  they  have  effected 
it.  It  is  the  nature,  too,  of  human  torrents  to  turn 
round  like  whirlpools  ;  but,  as  I  have  not  time  to 
tell  you  more  facts,  I  certainly  have  none  to  make 
reflections,  which  age,  taking  itself  for  wisdom,  is 
mighty  apt  to  dispense.  My  letter  is  short,  but  that 
is  all  that  is  necessary  to  preparatives.  I  declare,  in 
spite  of  my  wisdom,  that  I  do  not  guess  what  will 
happen.  I  pray  for  the  peace  of  Jerusalem  ;  but 
what  the  Pharisees  or  Sadducees  will  do  next,  I  do 
not  know. 


LETTER  CCCXXVI. 


Berkeley  Square,  March  21,  1780. 

The  Court-stock,  that  last  week  was  eight  under 
par,  is  got  up  again  to  fifty -three  above  par.  Yester- 
day, on  Burke's  Bill,  the  debate  was  on  the  King's 
Household ;  the  clause  for  cashiering  which  was  rejected 


224  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

at  one  in  the  morning  by  a  majority  of  fifty-three,"' 
though  the  moment  before  that  question  the  Ministers 
had  been  forced  to  let  the  Contractor's  Bill  pass  with- 
out a  division. 

Still  the  career  of  the  Opposition  is  certainly  a  little 
checked,  and  I  think  will  not  recover  by  the  recess 
at  Easter,  when  the  Court  can  work  more  efficaciously 
than  they :  for  they  will  separate,  and  the  Court  can 
work  on  separate  men  ;  and  will  not  only  have  reco- 
vered spirits  from  this  last  advantage,  but  from  being 
thunderstruck  by  the  rapid  progress  of  the  spirit  in 
the  country.  Other  causes  have  contributed  to  lower 
the  Opposition  ;  causes  arising  from  themselves.  The 
profligate  and  blundering  impudence  of  the  Speaker 
gave  the  first  shock.  This  was  immediately  followed  by 
as  dishonourable  an  attack  on  the  same  person,  Lord 
North,  by  Temple  Lutterell,  one  of  the  brothers  of  the 
Duchess  of  Cumberland,  who  brought  a  direct  charge 
against  the  Minister  for  buying  a  borough,  which 
Lutterell  thought  he  himself  had  bought.  He  made 
his  own  corrupt  practice  very  clear,  and  could  not 
prove  a  tittle  against  Lord  North.  The  accusation 
was  voted  frivolous,  f  The  Opposition,  too,  had  thought 
to  carry  everything  sword  in  hand,  and,  owing  their 
late  progress  to  the  country  petitions,  they  affected 
to   transfer  Parliamentary  power  to  the  associations, 

*  The  clause  was  rejected  by  211  against  158. — En. 

t  The  words  of  the  Amendment,  which  was  moved  by  Mr.  Holroyd, 
afterwards  Lord  Sheffield,  were,  "  that  the  charge  brought  against  Lord 
North  was  ill-founded  and  injurious."  It  was  agreed  to  without  a  divi- 
sion.— En. 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  225 

who  were   very   ready    to  affect  Parliamentary  airs, 

and  accordingly  assumed  cognizance  of  matters  actu- 
ally pending  in  Parliament.  This  has  offended  mode- 
rate men  ;  and  many,  who  approved  the  petitions,  were 
alarmed  at  the  associations — with  good  reason  :  for 
the  deputation,  composed  of  three  members  of  each 
committee,  which  is  assembled  in  London,  are  going 
to  take  large  strides  indeed,  and  intend  to  propose  to 
their  several  counties  to  demand  annual  Parliaments, 
and  to  alter  the  mode  of  representation.  The  first 
would  be  an  alteration  of  the  Constitution,  and  the 
last  a  most  dangerous  violation  of  it ;  and  very  sorry 
should  I  be  to  see  either  attempted.  Lord  Rocking- 
ham, the  Cavendishes,  and  that  connection,  strenuously 
resist  these  innovations.  Lord  Shelburne  and  Charles 
Fox  push  them  impetuously,  though  at  first  both  op- 
posed  them  :  but  the  first  will  stick  at  nothing  to 
gratify  his  ambition  ;  and  the  latter  must  stick  at 
nothing,  so  desperate  is  his  situation.  Thus,  instead 
of  trying  soberly  to  correct  and  restore  the  Constitu- 
tion, we  are  leaping  at  once  to  improving  upon  it ; 
and  thus  the  national  spirit  that  had  arisen,  and  might 
have  done  some  service,  will  be  wasted  in  chimerical 
projects,  and  only  sow  altercation.  However,  negative 
good  it  must  have  done,  for  it  has  checked  profusion 
and  waste  ;  and  has  shown  the  Court  that  the  lion 
was  dormant,  but  not  toothless. 

You  will  perceive,  perhaps,  that  my  conjectures  and 
prognostics  vary  ;  and  it  is  natural  you  should  con- 
clude  that  I   form   my  reasonings  from  the   moment. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  Q 


22G  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

So  I  do  ;  that  is,  I  conjecture  from  present  appear- 
ances, but  I  reason  from  the  causes  that  make  appear- 
ances vary.  Bodies  of  men,  multitudes,  do  not  act 
upon  one  regular  system  :  in  the  present  case,  the 
committees  started  out  of  the  earth,  were  not  set  on 
foot  by  the  leaders  of  the  Opposition,  and  will  not  be 
led  by  them,  at  least  till  they  have  been  humoured  by 
them  for  some  time.  Besides,  their  own  leaders  may 
not  have  just  the  same  views  as  the  Parliamentary 
leaders  ;  and,  the  more  articles  either  or  both  frame  for 
the  political  creed  in  which  they  are  to  agree,  into  the 
more  sects  they  will  split.  So  much  the  better,  if  any 
part  would  violate  the  Constitution.  It  is  good  that 
the  Court  should  know  it  will  be  resisted  if  it  attempts 
against  the  Constitution  :  but  as  no  country  ever  yet 
had  so  good  an  one,  though  not  perfect,  I  do  not  desire 
anybody  should  mend  it ;  because  I  do  not  know  that 
they  will  not  make  more  errors  than  they  found,  and 
I  have  not  so  high  an  opinion  of  the  virtue  or  wisdom 
of  the  present  age  as  to  discern  the  sublime  legislators 
who  can  improve  the  system  laid  down  at  the  Revolu- 
tion. To  that  point  let  us  always  return  when  neces- 
sary. It  will  be  time  enough  to  make  improvements 
afterwards. 

Observe,  this  letter  is  but  a  week  younger  than  my 
last.  Your  nephew  says  you  complained  of  my  silence, 
but  owned  it  was  occasioned  by  the  delay  of  two  or 
three  posts.  I  never  was  so  diligent.  Now  I  shall  relax 
a  little.  The  Parliament  will  go  into  Easter  quarters 
the  day  after  to-morrow  for  ten  days,  and  I  shall  go 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  227 

out  of  town  on  Friday.  It  will  be  a  grim  repose*  for 
them  ;  but  at  least  you  will  not  expect  events  in  the 
holidays.  It  will  be  better  that  we  should  run  into 
speculative  controversies  than  into  a  civil  war ; — we  are 
every  day  on  the  point  of  single  combats.  Yesterday 
one  was  very  near  between  Lord  Shelburne  and  Mr. 
Fullarton,  Lord  Stormont's  late  secretary  at  Paris  ;f  for, 
I  assure  you,  terms  are  no  more  managed  than  in  the 
Senate  of  Rome,  where  duels  were  not  the  fashion. 
Well !  good  night  ;  or  I  should  be  too  late  for  the 
post. 


LETTER  CCCXXVII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  April  8,  1780. 

The  return  of  the  Parliament  will  naturally  make 
you  impatient  for  a  letter,  though  you  will  not  have 
expected  so  much  as  this  will  announce.     As  I  am  not 

*  "  Fair  laughs  the  mom,  and  soft  the  zephyr  blows, 
While  proudly  riding  o'er  the  azure  realm 
In  gallant  trim  the  gilded  vessel  goes  ; 

Youth  on  the  prow,  and  Pleasure  at  the  helm  ; 
Regardless  of  the  sweeping  whirlwind's  sway, 
That,  hush'd  in  grim  repose,  expects  his  ev'ning  prey." 

Gray's  Bard. 

t  After  being  Lord  Stormont's  private  secretary  at  Paris,  Mr.  Fullar- 
ton was  elevated  to  the  rank  of  Lieutenant-Colonel  in  the  army,  and  ap- 
pointed to  the  command  of  a  newly-raised  regiment.  The  Earl  of  Shel- 
burne animadverted  severely  on  the  circumstance  in  the  House  of  Lords, 
and,  in  the  course  of  his  speech,  designated  Mr.  Fullarton  as  a  mere 
clerk,  a  commis.  The  latter  complained  of  the  insult  in  his  place  in  the 
House  of  Commons  ;  but,  the  House  declining  to  proceed  upon  it,  the 
"  single  combat"  anticipated  by  Walpole  took  place  in  Hyde  Park,  on 
the  22nd  of  March.— En. 

q  2 


228  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

going  to  write  a  romance  or  an  epic  poem,  I  will  not 
keep  jour  attention  in  suspense,  but  tell  you  at  once 
that  the  Court  has  received  a  signal  defeat  already  ;  in 
which,  as  well  as  in  the  preparations  for  the  engage- 
ment, their  generals  have  manifested  strange  negligence 
and  want  of  conduct. 

On  Wednesday,  on  the  question  of  the  new-raised 
regiments,  in  which  Mr.  Fullarton's  was  comprised,  the 
Ministers  carried  them  in  the  House  of  Commons  by 
a  majority  of  nearly  forty.'" 

The  next  day  was  appointed  for  consideration  of  the 
Petitions  from  the  counties  and  towns  ;  about  forty  of 
which,  on  vast  parchments  subscribed  by  thousands  of 
names,  were  heaped  on  the  table.  The  Opposition 
had  kept  secret  their  intended  motions.  The  very 
first,  made  by  Mr.  Dunning,  was  a  thundering  one: 
The  words  were,  "  That  the  influence  of  the  Crown  has 
increased,  is  increasing,  and  ought  to  be  diminished." 
The  walls  could  not  believe  their  own  ears  ;  they  had 
not  heard  such  language  since  they  had  a  wainscot. 
The  Ministers,  as  if  this  winter  were  at  all  like  the  five 
last,  poorly  tried  that  the  chairman  should  leave  the 
chair  ;  but  that  would  not  take  now.  Thomas  Pitt,  who 
never  spoke  so  well  before,  drew  a  terrible  picture  of 
the  difference  he  had  felt  between  his  former  journey 
abroad  and  his  last  ;  from  what  he  knew  of  the  dissimi- 
lar situations  of  his  country,  then  so  flourishing,  now 
so  fallen  !  and  from  what  he  heard  foreigners  say  of  it. 
This  apostrophe,  addressed  very  bitterly  to  Lord  North, 

'  The  numbers  on  the  division  were  102  against  66.— Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  '220 

threw  him  into  a  rage  against  the  Opposition,  that  pro- 
duced mighty  tumult.  The  details  of  all  this,  and 
more,  you  will  see  in  the  papers.  I  have  not  room  for 
particulars.  In  short,  late  at  night  Mr.  Dunning's  mo- 
tion was  carried  by  233  to  215,  and,  as  uncommonly, 
was  instantly  reported  to  the  House."" 

The  blow  seems  to  me  decisive  ;  for  this  committee 
is  to  continue  sitting  on  the  petitions,  will  exclude  any 
other  business,  will  extract  from  the  petitions  whatever 
propositions  it  pleases,  may  ground  on  those  what 
charges  it  has  a  mind,  and  will  carry  along  all  those 
who  have  already  voted  on  that  foundation  ;  so  that, 
if  the  Ministers  attempt  to  make  a  farther  stand,  no- 
thing seems  so  probable  as  their  being  personally 
accused.  To  combat  on  the  same  field  of  battle  after 
being  vanquished,  will,  in  my  opinion,  be  phrenzy.  It 
is  to  prevent  very  great  mischief  that  I  heartily  wish 
them  to  retreat  before  it  is  too  late.  The  Constitution 
is  vigorous  enough,  when  a  sudden  turn  of  the  tide 
can,  in  three  months,  sweep  away  a  deep-rooted  Admi- 

*  The  motion  made  by  Mr.  Fox  for  immediately  reporting  the  resolu- 
tion, was  opposed  by  Lord  North,  as  being  unusual,  violent,  and  arbi- 
trary ;  but  the  torrent  was  too  strong  to  be  resisted.  The  exultation 
and  triumph  on  one  side  of  the  House  was  only  equalled  by  the  depres- 
sion and  dismay  which  prevailed  on  the  side  of  Administration.  "  In- 
deed," says  the  able  writer  of  the  historical  department  of  the  Annual 
Register,  "  when  the  nature  and  the  tendency  of  the  questions  are  consi- 
dered, and  the  manner  in  which  they  were  carried  is  attentively  viewed, 
scarcely  any  thing  more  important  seems  to  have  been  so  proposed  and 
carried  since  the  Revolution.  The  system  of  the  Court  was  shaken  to 
its  foundation.  Without  doors  the  joy  and  triumph  in  most  parts  of 
England  were  great  and  general  ;  and,  though  not  displayed  in  the  same 
manner,  would  not  perhaps  have  been  exceeded  on  occasion  of  the  most 
decisive  victory  over  a  foreign  enemy." — Ed. 


230  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

nistration.  A  torrent  opposed  may  damage  the  foun- 
dations of  the  Constitution  itself. 

These  are  my  apprehensions  ;  but  whoever  would 
preach  to  two  heated  antagonists  is  sure  of  being  lis- 
tened to  by  neither,  and  so  I  am  come  hither  quietly 
to  ponder  my  own  reflections. 

Whoever  has  seen  much,  and  has  read  a  little,  must 
know  that  human  affairs  are  subject  to  these  returns  of 
troubles.  Great  or  little,  they  strike  the  present  spec- 
tator as  infinitely  more  momentous  than  any  greater 
crisis,  of  which  he  has  only  read  coolly.  I  do  not  pre- 
tend that  this  is  a  common  or  small  moment ;  nay,  it 
may  have  very  distant  consequences.  But  one  so  calm 
as  I  am  grown,  and  so  retired  as  I  live,  knows  that  even 
the  disorders  of  nations  subside  after  a  time,  and 
therefore  I  have  at  least  as  much  curiosity  for  the  con- 
clusion as  observation  on  the  events  as  they  pass ; 
though,  considering  my  age  and  caducity,  my  curiosity 
may  happen  not  to  be  gratified.  Well !  all  one's  own 
time  is  but  a  portion  of  an  unfinished  history.  One 
does  not  come  on  the  stage  precisely  as  a  memorable 
period  commences,  nor  quit  it  just  when  the  curtain 
drops.  Every  one  is  to  the  history  of  his  country  like 
his  own  hairs  to  himself, — millions  fall  before  the  body 
is  worn  out. 

The  orator  Dr.  Jebb*  is  not  the  physician,  but  his 
brother.     I  shall  stop  here,  because  this  is  not  to  set 

*  Dr.  John  Jebb,  eldest  son  of  Dr.  John  Jebb,  Dean  of  Cashel,  and 
brother  of  Sir  Richard,  the  physician,  was  a  man  much  celebrated 
among  the  violent  partisans  for  unbounded  liberty,  religious  and  poli- 
tical.     He  was  a  warm  friend  to  the  cause  of  the  Americans,  a  strenuous 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  231 

out  till  Tuesday  ;  and  as  I  shall  return  to  town  on 
Monday,  which  probably  will  be  no  neutral  day,  I  shall 
reserve  the  rest  of  my  paper  for  its  contingencies. 
Oh  !  I  had  forgotten  that  in  my  last  I  spoke  of  Lord 
Shelburne  and  Mr.  Fullarton  as  having  been  likely  to 
light.  My  letter  was  scarcely  on  horseback  before  they 
did  fight,  as  you  have  seen  in  the  papers.  The  Earl 
was  wounded  in  the  groin,  just  where  Charles  Fox  was  ; 
on  which  Sir  George  Savile  said  wittily,  that  Adam 
and  Fullarton  had  tried  not  only  to  cut  off  them,  but 
their  posterity.  It  was  odd  that  the  same  pistols  gave 
both  wounds,  for  Adam  had  borrowed  Fullarton's. 

April  11th. 

Religious  prophets  were  more  prudent  than  I ;  they 
commonly  formed  their  predictions  after  events,  not 
before.  Would  not  one  have  thought  that  I,  who  have 
often  denied  myself  guesses,  should  have  been  on  my 
guard  against  soothsaying  % — yet  here  am  I  already 
caught,  and  the  dupe  of  my  own  penetration :  not  but 
the  Administration  was  beaten  again  yesterday  ;  yet 
only  by  two* — just  enough  to  contradict  this  letter,  and 
bring  poor  me  to  shame  :  in  short,  nothing  is  consistent 
for  two  days.  Fluctuation  is  the  ruling  daemon  of  the 
times — and  perhaps  a  propitious  one  !  it  may  prevent 

advocate  for  annual  parliaments  and  universal  suffrage,  a  writer  in  news- 
papers, and  a  speaker  at  public  meetings.  He  died  in  1786,  and,  in  the 
following  year,  his  theological,  medical,  political,  and  miscellaneous 
works  were  published,  in  three  volumes,  by  Dr.  Disney. — Ed. 

*  The  division  on  this  occasion  was  215  to  213.  It  took  place  upon 
Mr.  Dunning's  motion,  that  it  was  incompatible  with  the  independence 
of  Parliament,  that  persons  holding  certain  offices  at  Court  should  be  en- 
titled to  hold  seats  in  the  House  of  Commons. — Ed. 


232  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

a  more  mischievous  devil  from  rioting  at  will.  Take 
notice,  that,  while  any  of  these  Incubi  reign,  I  will  not 
be  their  Flamen  and  give  out  their  oracles.  I  will 
henceforth  only  tell  you  where  they  have  left  prints  of 
their  footsteps. 


LETTER  CCCXXVHI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  April  17,  1780. 

Fluctuation  is  the  present  mot  of  the  House  of 
Commons.  Lord  North  had  a  considerable  majority,  con- 
sidering the  moment,  on  Thursday.  The  question  was  to 
read  a  second  time  the  bill  to  disfranchise  the  Officers  of 
the  Revenue.""  As  the  increase  of  them,  by  the  addition 
of  taxes,  has  magnificently  increased  the  influence  of  the 
Crown,  the  refusal  of  cashiering  them  as  voters  is  not 
very  consequential  logic  after  the  vote  of  the  former 
week,  that  that  influence  ought  to  be  diminished  !  The 
Court  took  a  bolder  step  on  Friday,  and  rejected  the  Bill 
for  dismembering  contractors,  which  the  Commons  had 
sent  to  the  Lords,  who  threw  it  out.f  This  measure 
would  have  created  a  raging  flame  in  the  Commons  this 
very  day — but  the  Commons  are  laid  up  in  the  person 
of  their  Speaker.  He  declared  himself  so  exhausted  in 
the  Chair  on  Friday,  and  so  ill,  that  the  tender  House, 

*  Mr.  Crewe's  bill  for  disabling  Revenue  Officers  from  voting  at  elec- 
tions was,  on  the  13th,  thrown  out  by  a  majority  of  224  to  195. — Ed. 

+  On  the  14th,  the  bill,  which  had  been  sent  up  from  the  Commons, 
for  preventing  persons  concerned  in  Contracts  with  the  Government 
from  sitting  in  the  House  of  Commons,  was  rejected  by  the  Lords  by  (il 
to  41.— Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  233 

to  both  sides  of  which  his  alternate  virtues  must  be  dear, 
have  adjourned  to  this  day  scvennight  :*  however,  it  is 
said  lie  designs  to  abdicate.  A  greater  quantity  of  fuel, 
no  doubt,  will  be  prepared  on  the  Contractors'  Bill ;  but 
premeditated  conflagrations  do  not  always  kindle  like 
the  combustibles  of  passion.  The  new  tests  of  the  As- 
sociations have  been  rejected  by  four  or  five  counties. 
I  am  heartily  glad.  I  like  few  or  no  tests,  and  not  at 
all  the  changes  of  the  Constitution  at  which  they  were 
aimed. 

You  say  Prussia  forbade  Russia  to  assist  us,  to  which 
she  was  inclined.  Truly,  she  is  a  most  passive  or 
weathercock  despot !  Ladies  too,  that  are  forbidden  to 
please  themselves,  are  seldom  so  passive  as  to  exceed 
the  commands  of  the  prohibitor.  And  yet  she  has  sent 
us  a  Memorial,  or  (in  the  modern  phrase  for  a  bitter 
potion)  a  rescript,  that  will  mightily  manacle  the  viva- 
city of  our  privateers.f     As  all  Europe  is  obdurate,  I 

*  The  adjournment  of  the  House  to  the  24th  was  moved  by  Mr. 
Dunning.  "  Nothing,"  says  the  Annual  Register,  "  ever  happened 
more  fortunately  in  favour  of  any  Administration  than  the  illness,  at 
this  peculiar  juncture,  of  the  Speaker.  It  seemed  as  if  nothing  else 
could  at  that  time  have  saved  them.  The  recess,  indeed,  was  not 
long  ;  hut  it  produced  extraordinary  and  unexpected  effects.  It  af- 
forded time  and  opportunity  for  using  effectual  means  to  bring  the 
numerous  deserters  from  the  Court,  who  had  been  afraid  to  oppose 
the  late  popular  torrent,  back  to  their  original  standard.  In  effect, 
the  meeting  of  the  House,  after  this  short  recess,  presented  so  new 
a  face  and  appearance  of  things,  and  such  a  total  change  of  temper  and 
disposition,  that  it  seemed  no  longer  the  same  identical  body." — Ed. 

f  This  was  the  Manifesto  of  the  26th  of  February,  issued  by  the 
Court  of  St.  Petersburgh,  which  was  the  means  of  forming,  under  the 
name  of  an  Armed  Neutrality,  that  formidable  naval  and  military  al- 
liance ami  confederacy  between  the  Northern  powers  to  which  most 
of  the  neutral  stales  in  Europe  afterwards  acceded.  — Ed. 


234  THE  HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

wish  they  would  go  farther,  and  one  and  all  impose 
peace  on  us  and  our  enemies.  That  would  be  mercy  to 
mankind  ;  but  at  what  Ratisbon  is  there  a  precedent 
of  such  a  pacification  registered  %  The  D'Alemberts 
and  Diderots,  who  are  so  lavish  of  incense  to  philosophic 
sovereigns,  are  forced  to  content  themselves  with 
mighty  problematic  sparkles  of  philosophy  ! 

I  begin  this  letter,  because  I  am  here  idle  :  perhaps 
I  shall  not  finish  it  this  week.  I  am  sorry  my  recom- 
mande*  is  so  unwise  for  himself  as  not  to  cultivate  you 
more.  I  am  satisfied  of  his  virtues,  but  am  not  so  clear 
that  he  knows  much  of  the  world.  I  doubt  his  patriot- 
ism is  a  little  of  Spartan  hue,  that  is,  morose  ;  at  least 
I  shall  deem  it  so,  if  your  humanity  does  not  smooth  it. 
Here,  I  believe,  it  will  soon  be  difficult  to  be  allowed 
any  moderation  ;  but  surely  one  has  no  occasion  to 
wear  one's  badge  constantly  at  the  distance  of  above  a 
thousand  miles.  "Well ;  you  have  temper,  and  will  not 
take  notice  of  it.  I  am  satisfied  of  your  complaisance 
for  my  proteges  ;  and,  if  they  do  not  meet  it  as  they 
ought,  I  am  not  so  unreasonable  as  to  expect  or  desire 
you  to  press  it  upon  them.  I  remember  Sir  William 
Maynard  was  very  impertinent  on  opposite  politics.! 
You  must  smile  as  I  do  when  I  content  neither  side. 
Methinks  it  is  a  desirable  certificate.  One  should  have 
charity  for  all  sorts  of  opinions  on  religion  and  govern- 
ment ;  for  no  person  can  be  absolutely  sure  he  is  in  the 
right  on  either.     "Were  any  mode  in  either  self-evi- 

*  Mr.  Windham. 

t  Sir  William  Maynard  was  a  Jacobite. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  235 

dently  true,  nobody  could  dispute  on  them  ;  Imt,  as 
men  have  disputed,  fought,  nay  died,  for  almost  every 
mode  and  against  every  mode,  their  probabilities  arc 
but  a  peut-etre.  I  am  a  settled  Whig  ;  for,  if  one 
thinks,  one  must  before  my  age  have  fixed  one's  creed 
by  the  lamp  of  one's  own  reason  :  but  I  have  much 
Quakerism  in  my  composition,  and  prefer  peace  to  doc- 
trines. I  have  so  much  weakness  and  worldliness  too 
in  my  nature,  that,  having  a  poor  opinion  of  my  own 
infallibility,  I  can  but  suspect  myself  of  as  much  preju- 
dice and  passion  as  I  descry  in  others  ; — one  may  be 
very  sure  of  one's  own  faults,  but  one  may  judge  rashly 
and  unfairly  on  those  of  others. 

22d. 

I  could  not  amass  complement  enough  for  my  letter, 
and  shall  therefore  reserve  it  to  Tuesday  next.  The 
mountain  has  been  delivered  of  a  tooth  ;  i.  e.  the 
Speaker  has  had  one  drawn,  and  will  return  to  the 
House  on  Monday, — they  say,  for  the  rest  of  this  session; 
though,  they  say,  against  the  advice  of  the  physicians. 
You  see,  when  virtue  seizes  people  late,  it  makes  them 
risk  even  life  itself  in  the  service  of  their  country  ! 

25th. 

I  am  but  just  come  to  town,  and  find  that  the  livery 
of  the  House  of  Commons  is  still  turned  up  with  change- 
able, or  rather  is  returned  to  the  Royal  colours.  Dun- 
ning moved  yesterday  to  address  the  King  that  the  Par- 
liament might  not  be  prorogued  or  dissolved  till  the  de- 
mands of  the  petitions  are  satisfied.  The  motion  was  re- 
jected by  254  to  203.     On  this  repulse,  the  Opposition 


236  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

adjourned  their  committee  to  that  day  sevennight,  to 
have  time  to  meditate  one  decisive  measure  ;  which,  if 
rejected,  Charles  Fox  declared  he  should  advise  seces- 
sion, as  having  no  hopes  of  redress  of  grievances.  That 
implies  recourse  to  the  people.  As  a  new  Parliament 
is  so  near,  recourse  to  the  people  may  imply  that  the 
people,  if  they  will  be  relieved,  must  chuse  representa- 
tives accordingly.  Such  steps  are  constitutional ;  and, 
while  we  have  those  remedies,  I  hope  we  shall  never 
have  any  other.  The  session  will  probably  end  much 
sooner  than  was  expected  ;  but  when  one  guesses,  from 
the  sky,  of  the  day,  you  must  not  depend  upon  such  an 
almanack-maker. 


LETTER  CCCXXIX. 

Berkeley  Square,  Mciy  13,  1780. 

My  letters  keep  touch  with  the  pulse  of  the 
times  :  they  are  redoubled,  or  intermitted,  or  perio- 
dic, according  as  the  political  inflammation  increases, 
abates,  or  gives  place  to  the  common  course  of  things. 
Of  late  I  have  been  silent,  because  the  daily  papers 
told  you  the  ordinary  events,  and  that  nothing  singular 
had  happened.  The  Ministerial  recovery  is  confirmed ; 
the  rejection  of  the  Contractors'  Bill  by  the  House  of 
Lords  occasioned  no  ferment,  and  in  the  country  the 
Associations  seem  at  least  to  duze.  The  Opposition 
are  not  very  unanimous,  and  their  leaders  have  no 
grounds   for  reproaching  the  Ministers  with  want  of 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  '237 

conduct.  The  session,  T  conjecture,  will  end  sooner 
than  is  expected,  from  general  weariness.  The  public 
is  tired  of  attending  to  their  debates  ;  and  the  chiefs 
will  be  sick  of  disappointments;  especially  when  not 
consoled  by  the  thorough-bass  of  attention  and  applause 
without  doors.  In  short,  it  is  my  opinion  that  the 
vigour  of  this  country  is  worn  out,  and  is  not  likely  to 
revive.  I  think  it  is  pretty  much  the  same  case  with 
Europe.  I  remember  that,  some  years  ago,  I  used  to 
tell  you  that  this  is  an  age  of  abortions.  May  not 
this  be  founded  on  a  still  more  general  truth  ?  May 
not  our  globe  be  arrived  at  senility  1  Its  youth  ani- 
mated Asia,  and  displayed  there  its  parts  and  inven- 
tion. Europe  profited  of  the  maturity  of  its  judgment 
and  good  sense,  and  experience  and  observation. 
Africa  never  partook  of  the  illumination  of  the  two 
continents  but  in  Egypt,  and  at  Carthage  for  a  mo- 
ment. America  has  begun  to  announce  itself  for  a 
successor  to  old  Europe,  but  I  already  doubt  whether 
it  will  replace  its  predecessors ;  genius  does  not  seem 
to  make  great  shoots  there.  Buifon  says,  that  Eu- 
ropean animals  degenerate  across  the  Atlantic  ;  per- 
haps its  migrating  inhabitants  may  be  in  the  same 
predicament.  If  my  reveries  are  true,  what  pity  that 
the  world  will  not  retire  into  itself  and  enjoy  a  calm 
old  age ! 

I  could  carry  my  speculations  on  the  general  decay 
still  farther.  Is  not  the  universal  inactivity  of  all 
religions  a  symptom  of  decrepitude  %  The  aged  are 
seldom  converted  ;  they  die  in  the  faith  they  are  used 


238  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

to  :  still  seldomer  do  the  ancients  invent  new  systems. 
The  good  ladies  Mahometanism,  Popery,  and  Protest- 
antism adhere  to  their  old  rites,  but  hobble  after 
no  new  teachers. 

You  perceive,  by  this  rhapsody,  that  I  have  nothing 
new  to  tell  you,  and  therefore  I  shall  adjourn  the 
conclusion  of  my  letter  to  next  week.  May  not  one 
hope,  from  the  lethargy  of  the  war,  that  all  sides  may 
be  sinking  into  a  disposition  towards  peace  1  It  is  a 
consummation  devoutly  to  be  wished  ! 

18th. 

I  might  as  well  have  sent  away  my  letter  last  week, 
for  it  has  not  increased  by  allowing  it  time  to  grow. 
The  eye  of  expectation  is  fixed  on  Charlestown,  whence 
nothing  is  yet  come.  There  are  rumours  of  an  at- 
tempt to  be  made  by  the  French  and  Spaniards  on 
your  neighbour,  Minorca ;  the  latter  having  no  hopes  of 
taking  Gibraltar.  The  languor  of  the  war  makes  one 
expect  both  sides  will  be  weary  of  it ;  at  least,  I  flat- 
ter myself  we  shall  pass  a  more  tranquil  summer  at 
home  than  the  last. 

19th. 

Sir  Charles  Hardy  is  dead,  suddenly,  at  Portsmouth. 
I  trust  it  is  a  good  omen  :  it  cannot  be  a  bad  one.* 

P.S.  I  had  sealed  my  letter,  but  open  it  again  to 
tell  you  that  I  have  this  instant  received  your  long 
despatch  about  Mr.  Windham  and  Mr.  Bagnal,  and  am 
very  sorry  so  well  laid  a  plan  had  no  better  success. 

*  On  the  death  of  Sir  Charles  Hardy,  Admiral  Geary  was  called  upon 
lo  take  the  chief  command. 


TO   SIR  HORACE   MANN.  2D!) 

I   advise  you,  however,  to  watch  any  opportunity  of 
reviving  it. 

I  am  grieved  to  hear  you  complain  of  your  nerves, 
and  know  how  to  pity  you.  My  own  are  so  shattered, 
that  the  sudden  clapping  of  a  door  makes  me  tremble 
for  some  minutes.  I  should  think  sea-bathing  might 
be  of  use  to  you.  I  know,  though  I  have  neglected  it 
myself,  that  the  sea -air,  even  for  four -and -twenty 
hours,  is  incredibly  strengthening.  I  would  not  have 
you  bathe  without  advice ;  but  I  do  beg  you  to  go  to 
Leghorn,  »if  but  for  three  days.  I  will  communicate 
yours  to  your  nephew.  I  think  his  conduct,  as  far  as 
I  know,  is  very  proper.  I  am  sure  it  is,  if  it  pleases 
you  ;  for  it  is  you  I  wish  him  to  study.  I  have  not 
time  to  say  more  now.  Only  remember  to  be  easy 
when  you  do  not  hear  from  me,  as  you  may  be  sure 
I  have  nothing  material  to  tell  you. 


LETTER  CCCXXX. 

Strawberry  Hill,  June  5,  1780. 

Not  a  syllable  yet  from  General  Clinton.  There 
has  been  a  battle  at  sea  in  the  West  Indies,  which  we 
might  have  gained  ;  know  we  did  not,  but  not  why  : 
and  all  this  is  forgotten  already  in  a  fresher  event. 
I  have  said  for  some  time  that  the  field  is  so  extensive, 
and  the  occurrences  so  numerous,  and  so  much  pains 
are  taken  to  involve  them  in  falsehoods  and  mystery, 
and  opinions  are  so  divided,  that  all  evidences  will  be 
dead  before  a  single  part  can  be  cleared  up  ;  but  I 


240  THE   HON.    HORACE    WALPOLE 

have  not  time,  nor  you  patience,  for  my  reflections.  I 
must  hurry  to  the  history  of  the  day.  The  Jack  of 
Leyden  of  the  age,  Lord  George  Gordon,  gave  notice  to 
the  House  of  Commons  last  week,  that  he  would,  on 
Friday,  bring  the  petition  of  the  Protestant  Associa- 
tion ;*  and  he  openly  declared  to  his  disciples,  that  he 
would  not  carry  it  unless  a  noble  army  of  martyrs, 
not  fewer  than  forty  thousand,  would  accompany  him. 
Forty  thousand,  led  by  such  a  lamb,  were  more  likely 
to  prove  butchers  than  victims  ;  and  so,  in  good  truth, 
they  were  very  near  being.  Have  you  faith  enough  in 
me  to  believe  that  the  sole  precaution  taken  was,  that 
the  Cabinet  Council  on  Thursday  empowered  the  First 
Lord  of  the  Treasury  to  give  proper  orders  to  the 
civil  magistrates  to  keep  the  peace, — and  his  lordship 
forgot  it ! 

Early  on  Friday  morning  the  conservators  of  the 
Church  of  England  assembled  in  St.  George's  Fields  to 
encounter  the  dragon,  the  old  serpent,  and  inarched  in 
lines  of  six  and  six — about  thirteen  thousand  only,  as 
they  were  computed — with  a  petition  as  long  as  the 
procession,  which  the  apostle  himself  presented  ;  but, 
though  he  had  given  out  most  Christian  injunctions  for 
peaceable  behaviour,  he  did  everything  in  his  power  to 
promote  a  massacre.  He  demanded  immediate  repeal 
of  toleration,  told  Lord  North  he  could  have  him  torn 
to  pieces,  and,  running  every  minute  to  the  door  or 

*  In  giving;  notice  of  his  intention  to  present  the  petition  of  tlie  Pro- 
testant Association,  praying  the  repeal  of  the  late  Act  in  favour  of 
Popery,  Lord  George  informed  the  House,  that  the  whole  Association 
intended  to  accompany  him  to  the  House. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  241 

windows,  bawled  to  the  populace  that  Lord  North 
would  give  them  no  redress,  and  that  now  this  member, 
now  that,  was  speaking  against  them. 

In  the  mean  time,  the  Peers,  going  to  their  own 
Chamber,  and  as  yet  not  concerned  in  the  petition, 
were  assaulted  ;*  many  of  their  glasses  were  broken, 
and  many  of  their  persons  torn  out  of  the  carriages. 
Lord  Boston  was  thrown  down  and  almost  trampled  to 
death  ;  and  the  two  Secretaries  of  State,  the  Master  of 
the  Ordnance,  and  Lord  Willoughby  were  stripped  of 
their  bags  or  wigs,  and  the  three  first  came  into  the 
House  with  their  hair  all  dishevelled.  The  chariots  of 
Sir  George  Savile  and  Charles  Turner,  two  leading  ad- 
vocates for  the  late  toleration,  though  in  Opposition,  were 
demolished  ;  and  the  Duke  of  Richmond  and  Burke 
were  denounced  to  the  mob  as  proper  objects  for  sacri- 
fice.!   Lord  Mahon  laboured  to  pacify  the  tempest,  and, 

*  "  It  is  hardly  possible,"  wrote  one  who  was  present,  "  to  conceive  a 
more  grotesque  appearance  than  the  House  exhibited.  Some  of  their 
lordships,  with  their  hair  about  their  shoulders  ;  others  smutted  with 
dirt  ;  most  of  them  as  pale  as  the  Ghost  in  Hamlet,  and  all  of  them 
standing  up,  in  their  several  places,  and  speaking  at  the  same  time." 
Lord  Mansfield  came  in  with  his  wig  dishevelled  ;  the  Archbishop  of 
York  had  his  lawn  sleeves  torn  off  and  flung  in  his  face  ;  the  Bishop 
of  Lincoln's  carriage  was  destroyed,  and  himself  taken,  in  a  fainting- 
fit, into  a  house  ;  the  Duke  of  Northumberland  was  robbed  of  his  watch 
and  purse;  and  Lord  Sandwich  narrowly  escaped  destruction." — Ed. 

+  Mr.  Burke,  in  his  way  to  the  House,  on  the  6th,  was  surrounded  by 
some  of  the  most  respectable  of  the  petitioners,  who  expostulated  with 
him  on  his  conduct,  in  abetting  Sir  George  Savile's  motion  for  the  Roman 
Catholic  Bill  :  he  said,  he  certainly  had  seconded  it,  and  thought  him- 
self justified  in  so  doing ;  he  understood  he  was  a  marked  man,  and 
therefore  he  had  walked  out  singly  amongst  them,  conscious  of  having  done 
nothing  that  deserved  their  censure,  having  always  been  the  advocate  of 
the  people.     Mr.  Burke's  residence  in  the  Broad  Sanctuary  was  more 

VOL.    III. NEW  SERIES.  R 


242  THE    HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

towards  eight  and  nine,  prevailed  on  so  many  to  dis- 
perse, that  the  Lords  rose  and  departed  in  quiet ;  but 
every  avenue  to  the  other  House  was  besieged  and  block- 
aded, and  for  four  hours  they  kept  their  doors  locked, 
though  some  of  the  warmest  members  proposed  to  sally 
out,  sword  in  hand,  and  cut  their  way.  Lord  North 
and  that  House  behaved  with  great  firmness,  and  would 
not  submit  to  give  any  other  satisfaction  to  the  rioters, 
than  to  consent  to  take  the  Popish  laws  into  considera- 
tion on  the  following  Tuesday ;  and,  calling  the  justices 
of  the  peace,  empowered  them  to  call  out  the  whole 
force  of  the  county  to  quell  the  riot. 

The  magistrates  soon  brought  the  horse  and  foot 
guards,  and  the  pious  ragamuffins  soon  fled,  so  little 
enthusiasm  fortunately  had  inspired  them  ;  at  least 
all  their  religion  consisted  in  outrage  and  plunder; 
for  the  Duke  of  Northumberland,  General  Grant,  Mr. 
Mackinsy,  and  others,  had  their  pockets  picked  of 
their  watches  and  snuff-boxes.  Happily,  not  a  single 
life  was  lost. 

This  tumult,  which  was  over  between  nine  and  ten 
at  night,  had  scarce  ceased  before  it  broke  out  in 
two  other  quarters.     Old  Haslang'st  chapel  was  broken 

than  once  threatened  ;  and  he  himself  reviled  as  a  Jesuit  in  disguise,  nick- 
named Neddy  St.  Omer's,  and  caricatured  as  a  monk  stirring  up  the  fires 
of  Smithfield.  He  thus  notices  the  ahove  adventure,  in  a  letter  written 
shortly  after  to  a  friend  in  Ireland  : — "  My  wife  heing  safely  lodged,  I 
spent  part  of  the  next  day  in  the  street  amidst  this  wild  assembly,  into 
whose  hands  I  delivered  myself,  informing  them  who  I  was.  Some  of 
them  were  malignant  and  fanatical,  but  I  think  the  far  greater  part  of  those 
whom  I  saw  were  rather  dissolute  and  unruly  than  very  ill-disposed. 
I  even  found  friends  and  well-wishers  among  the  blue-cockades." — Ed. 
f  Count  Haslang,  Minister  from  the  Elector  of  Bavaria  :  he  had  been 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  243 

open  and  plundered  ;  and,  as  he  is  a  Prince  of  Smug- 
glers as  well  as  Bavarian  Minister,  great  quantities  of 
run  tea  and  contraband  goods  were  found  in  his  house. 
This  one  cannot  lament ;  and  still  less,  as  the  old  wretch 
has  for  these  forty  years  usurped  a  hired  house,  and, 
though  the  proprietor  for  many  years  has  offered  to 
remit  his  arrears  of  rent,  he  will  neither  quit  the  house 
nor  pay  for  it. 

Monsieur  Cordon,  the  Sardinian  Minister,  suffered 
still  more.  The  mob  forced  his  chapel,  stole  two 
silver  lamps,  demolished  everything  else,  threw  the 
benches  into  the  street,  set  them  on  fire,  carried  the 
brands  into  the  chapel,  and  set  fire  to  that ;  and,  when 
the  engines  came,  would  not  suffer  them  to  play  till 
the  guards  arrived,  and  saved  the  house  and  probably 
all  that  part  of  the  town.  Poor  Madame  Cordon 
was  confined  by  illness.  My  cousin,  Thomas  Wal- 
pole,  who  lives  in  Lincoln's-Inn-Fields,  went  to  her 
rescue,  and  dragged  her,  for  she  could  scarce  stand 
with  terror  and  weakness,  to  his  own  house. 

I  doubt  this  narrative  will  not  reapproach  you  and 
Mr.  "Windham.  I  have  received  yours  of  the  20th  of 
last  month. 

You  will  be  indignant  that  such  a  mad  dog  as  Lord 
George  should  not  be  knocked  on  the  head.  Colonel 
Murray  did  tell  him  in  the  House,  that,  if  any  lives 
were  lost,  his  lordship  should  join  the  number."'" — Nor 

here  from  the  year  1740.     [He  died  in  May  1783,  at  the  age  of  eighty- 
three,  after  an  embassy  of  forty-four  years. — Ed.] 

*  Lord  George  went  out  several  times  and  harangued  the  people,  point- 
it  2 


244  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

yet  is  he  so  lunatic  as  to  deserve  pity.  Besides  being 
very  debauched,  he  has  more  knavery  than  mission. 
What  will  be  decided  on  him,  I  do  not  know  ;  every 
man  that  heard  him  can  convict  him  of  the  worst  kind 
of  sedition  :  but  it  is  dangerous  to  constitute  a  rascal 
a  martyr.  I  trust  we  have  not  much  holy  fury  left  ; 
I  am  persuaded  that  there  was  far  more  dissoluteness 
than  enthusiasm  in  the  mob  :  yet  the  episode  is  very 
disagreeable.  I  came  from  town  yesterday  to  avoid 
the  birthday.  We  have  a  report  here  that  the  Papists 
last  night  burnt  a  Presbyterian  meeting-house,  but  I 
credit  nothing  now  on  the  first  report.  It  was  said 
to  be  intended  on  Saturday,  and  the  guards  patrolled 
the  streets  at  night ;  but  it  is  very  likely  that  Saint 
George   Gordon  spread  the  insinuation  himself. 

My  letter  cannot  set  out  before  to-morrow;  there- 
fore I  will  postpone  the  conclusion.  In  the  mean  time 
I  must  scold  you  very  seriously  for  the  cameo  you  have 
sent  me  by  Mr.  Morrice.  This  house  is  full  of  your 
presents  and  of  my  blushes.  I  love  any  one  of  them 
as  an  earnest  of  your  friendship  ;  but  I  hate  so  many. 
You  force  upon  me  an  air  most  contrary  to  my  dis- 
position. I  cannot  thank  you  for  your  kindness  ;  I 
entreated  you  to  send  me  nothing  more.     You  leave 

ing  out  such  members  as  were  opposing  the  petition,  particularly  Mr. 
Burke.  An  eye-witness  states,  that  General  Conway  and  several  other 
members  expostulated  with  him  very  warmly  on  the  mischiefs  that  might 
arise  from  such  conduct,  and  that  Colonel  Gordon,  a  near  relation, 
went  up  to  him  and  accosted  him  in  the  following  words,  "  My  Lord 
George,  do  you  intend  to  bring  your  rascally  adherents  into  the  House  ? 
If  you  do,  the  first  man  of  them  that  enters,  I  will  plunge  my  sword — 
not  into  his,  but  into  your  body." — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  245 

me  no  alternative  but  to  seem  interested  or  ungrateful. 
I  can  only  check  your  generosity  by  being  brutal. 
If  1  had  a  grain  of  power,  I  would  affront  you  and 
call  your  presents  bribes.  I  never  gave  you  anything 
but  a  coffee-pot.  If  I  could  buy  a  diamond  as  big 
as  the  Caligula,  and  a  less  would  not  be  so  valuable, 
I  would  send  it  you.  In  one  word,  I  will  not  accept 
the  cameo,  unless  you  give  me  a  promise  under  your 
hand  that  it  shall  be  the  last  present  you  send  me. 
I  cannot  stir  about  this  house  without  your  gifts 
staring  me  in  the  face.  Do  you  think  I  have  no  con- 
science ?  I  am  sorry  Mr.  Morrice  is  no  better,  and 
wonder  at  his  return.  What  can  invite  him  to  this 
country  %     Home  never  was  so  homely. 

6th. 

It  is  not  true  that  a  meeting-house  has  been  burnt. 
I  believe  a  Popish  chapel  in  the  city  has  been  at- 
tacked :  and  they  talk  here  of  some  disturbance  yes- 
terday, which  is  probable  ;  for,  when  grace,  robbery,  and 
mischief  make  an  alliance,  they  do  not  like  to  give 
over  : — but  ten  miles  from  the  spot  are  a  thousand  from 
truth.  My  letter  must  go  to  town  before  night,  or 
would  be  too  late  for  the  post.  If  you  do  not  hear 
from  me  again  immediately,  you  will  be  sure  that  this 
bourrasque  has  subsided. 

Thursday  8th. 

I  am  exceedingly  vexed.  I  sent  this  letter  to  Berke- 
ley Square  on  Tuesday,  but  by  the  present  confusions 
my  servant  did  not  receive  it  in  time.  I  came  my- 
self yesterday,    and   found    a   horrible   scene.      Lord 


246  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Mansfield's  house  was  just  burnt  down,  and  at  night  there 
were  shocking  disorders.  London  and  Southwark  were 
on  fire  in  six  places  ;  but  the  regular  troops  quelled 
the  sedition  by  daybreak,  and  everything  now  is  quiet. 
A  camp  of  ten  thousand  men  is  formed  in  Hyde  Park, 
and  regiments  of  horse  and  foot  arrive  every  hour. 

Friday  mora.  9th. 

All  has  been  quiet  to-night.  I  am  going  to  Straw- 
berry for  a  little  rest.  Your  nephew  told  me  last 
night  that  he  sends  you  constant  journals  just  now. 


LETTER  CCCXXXI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  June  14,  1780. 

The  Pope  needs  not  be  alarmed :  the  rioters 
thought  much  more  of  plundering  those  of  their  own 
communion,  than  his  holiness's  flock.  To  demolish 
law  and  prisons  was  their  next  great  object ;  and  to 
release  prisoners,  the  only  gospel-work  they  performed. 
What  was  the  view  of  the  arch-incendiary  I  do  not 
know,  nor  what  seditious  plans  were  engrafted  on  or 
incorporated  with  his  Calvinistic  reformation ;  but 
it  is  certain  that  the  number  of  the  perpetrators  of 
all  the  mischief  was  very  inconsiderable,  and  two-thirds 
apprentices  and  women.  Two  fortunate  circumstances 
are  amazing ;  that  a  large  portion  of  the  town  was  not 
burnt,  and  that  not  a  single  person  of  any  name  is 
killed.     The  damage,  on  the  contrary,  is  estimated  at 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  247 

a  million.  I  do  not  send  you  particulars,  for  your 
nephew  told  me  you  should  have  a  journal  of  them 
from  him. 

The  spectacle — for  I  was  there  on  the  blackest  night, 
the  Wednesday, — was  tremendous  and  shocking.  The 
monster  that  conjured  up  this  tempest  is  now  manacled 
in  the  Tower. — But  what  a  nation  is  Scotland ;  in  every 
reign  engendering  traitors  to  the  State,  and  false  and 
pernicious  to  the  Kings  that  favour  it  the  most !  Na- 
tional prejudices,  I  know,  are  very  vulgar  ;  but,  if  there 
are  national  characteristics,  can  one  but  dislike  the 
soils  and  climates  that  concur  to  produce  them  1 

I  shall  suspend  the  prosecution  of  this  letter,  for 
the  papers  say  our  ports  are  still  shut.  They  will  soon 
be  reopened,  I  trust ;  for  tranquillity  is  restored  in  the 
capital,  and  in  the  country  has  not  been  disturbed  but 
for  one  moment  at  Bath,  though  near  a  fortnight  is 
elapsed  since  the  first  tumult. 

Berkeley  Square,  Friday  16th. 

I  shall  change  my  mind,  and  send  away  this  frag- 
ment to-night ;  as,  though  short,  it  will  contain  two 
pieces  of  intelligence  that  will  give  you  joy,  and  I  doubt 
you  want  some  cordials. 

Yesterday  arrived  an  account  of  the  surrender  of 
Charlestown  to  Sir  Henry  Clinton  :  like  the  jaundice, 
I  turn  everything  to  the  colour  of  my  mind,  and  cry, 
"Will  it  advance  peace1?"  It  certainly  will  have 
good  eifect  here,  and  discourage  mutineers. — I  have  not 
time  to  dilate  more. 


248  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

The  King  and  his  royal  brothers""  are  reconciled. 
This  is  my  second  good  article. — But  the  best  of  all  is, 
that  we  are  perfectly  tranquil ;  and  ten  days  having 
passed  since  the  black  "Wednesday,  and  no  accounts 
having  come  of  the  least  disturbance,  except  a  mo- 
mentary one  at  Bath,  it  is  fairly  to  be  presumed  that 
the  whole  nation  is  shocked  at  the  late  savage  tumults. 

Here  the  scandal  taken  is  so  universal,  or  shame,  or 
fear,  that  not  a  single  person  has  been  or  sent  to  in- 
quire after  the  arch-incendiary.  Wilkes  has  very  sen- 
sibly ridden  home  on  Lord  George,  and  distinguished 
himself  by  zeal  and  spirit.f 

One  strange  circumstance  in  the  late  delirium  was 
the  mixture  of  rage  and  consideration  in  the  mob.  In 
most  of  the  fires  they  threw  furniture  into  the  street, 
did  not  burn  it  in  the  houses  ;  nay,  made  several  small 
bonfires,  lest  a  large  one  should  spread  to  buildings. 
They  would  not  suffer  engines  to  play  on  the  devoted 
edifices;  yet,  the  moment  the  objects  were  consumed, 
played  the  engines  on  contiguous  houses  on  each  side  ! 
It  is  all  unaccountable,  and  I  can  yet  send  you  no  con- 
sistent narrative.  Much  appears  to  have  been  sudden 
fury,  and  in  many  places  the  act  of  few.      In  other 

*  Prince  William  Henry  Duke  of  Gloucester,  and  Prince  Henry  Duke 
of  Cumberland. 

t  Dr.  Johnson,  in  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Thrale  of  the  10th,  says,  "  The 
rioters  attempted  the  Bank.  Jack  Wilkes  headed  the  party  that  drove 
them  away.  Jack  declares,  that  if  he  be  trusted  with  power,  he  will 
not  leave  a  rioter  alive.  We  frighten  one  another  with  reports  that 
seventy  thousand  Scots  are  about  to  come  hither  witb  the  Dukes  of 
Cordon  and  Argyll,  and  eat  us,  and  hang  us,  or  drown  us  ;  but  we  are 
all  at  quiet." — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  241) 

lights  it  looks  like  plan  and  dee})  premeditation.  Whe- 
ther it  will  ever  be  unravelled,  I  know  not  ;  or  whether, 
like  the  history  of  darker  ages,  falsehood  will  become 
history,  and  then  distant  periods  conjecture  that  we 
have  transmitted  very  blundered  relations  :  but,  when  I 
know  so  little  of  what  has  passed  before  my  own  eyes, 
I  shall  not  guess  how  posterity  will  form  their  opinions. 
Adieu !     I  have  not  time  to  say  more. 


LETTER  CCCXXXII. 

Berkeley  Square,  July  6,  1780. 

If  I  did  not  think  that  you  have  a  satisfaction  in 
hearing  from  me,  and  were  not  unwilling  to  grow  re- 
miss after  a  perseverance  of  forty  years,  I  should  be 
disposed  to  devolve  on  your  nephew  the  function  of 
sending  you  intelligence.  In  good  truth,  I  am  ashamed 
of  the  office.  We  make  a  ridiculous  figure  in  every 
light :  there  is  no  dignity  or  consistence  anywhere.  The 
Government,  the  Parliament,  the  parties,  or  rather  the 
factions,  or  rather  their  fractions,  do  and  undo,  cross  over 
and  figure  in,  and  seem  to  have  neither  plan  nor  object. 
The  incoherencies  of  the  last  six  months  could  only  be 
described  by  a  person  accustomed  to  draw  out  dances 
for  the  stage.  In  December  the  tide  ran  into  petitions 
and  associations  :  the  House  of  Commons  voted  the 
danger  of  prerogative,  unvoted  it  again,  were  for  satis- 
fying the  petitioners,  and  then  did  not  give  them  a 
crumb  of  bread  :  then  we  were  alarmed  with  Popery, 


250  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

and  the  town  was  set  on  fire  :  next,  we  were  to  revise 
toleration, — that  was  changed  for  new  precautions 
against  increase  of  Papists  :  then  our  Lords  the  Bishops 
were  for  tolerating  Popery,  because  it  was  decreasing  : 
then  the  Chancellor  declared  he  had  always  disliked  the 
indulgence  ;  but,  in  contradiction  to  the  favourers  of  it, 
would  himself  favour  their  educating  their  children: 
and  then — ay,  then, — the  new  bill  of  regulations  was 
thrown  out,  nobody  knows  why  or  wherefore."""  If  you 
can  make  head  or  tail  of  all  this,  you  are  wiser  than  I ! 
The  next  chapter  is  that  of  the  rioters,  whose  trials 
are  begun.  A  score  have  been  tried,  and  most  of  them 
condemned.  They  are  apprentices,  women,  a  black 
girl,  and  two  or  three  escaped  convicts.  And  these 
Catilines,  without  plan,  plot,  connection,  or  object, 
threw  a  million  of  inhabitants  into  consternation,  burnt 
their  houses  about  their  ears,  besieged  the  Parliament, 
drove  it  to  adjourn  for  ten  days,  and  have  saddled  the 
capital  with  ten  thousand  men  ;  and  still  terrify  us  so 
dreadfully,  that  we  dare  not  dismiss  two  camps  at  our 
gates,  lest  a  Negro  miss,  and  her  regiment  of  street- 
walkers, should  overturn  the  State.    Not  a  Frenchman, 

*  When  Sir  George  Savile's  bill  for  securing  the  Protestant  religion 
from  any  encroachments  of  Popery,  by  restraining  Papists  from  teaching 
the  children  of  Protestants,  was  brought  up  from  the  Commons,  the  Lords 
in  general,  including  the  right  reverend  bench,  appeared  much  on  the  side 
of  toleration  ;  but  several  of  the  peers  considering  it  as  a  great  indignity  to 
Parliament  to  pass  a  bill  which  carried  all  the  appearance  of  being  forced 
upon  them  by  outrage  and  threat,  upon  its  being  brought  up  to  be  re- 
ported, it  was  contrived  to  set  it  aside,  without  giving  it  a  direct  negative, 
by  moving  that  it  should  be  read  a  third  time  on  that  day  week  :  which, 
being  carried,  had  the  effect  of  a  previous  question,  as  it  was  known  that 
a  prorogation  would  take  place  in  the  interim. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  25  I 

not  an  American,  appears  to  have  had  a  finger  in  a 
single  outrage.  Oh  !  we  are  a  magnanimous  people  ! 
and  Europe  must  wait  with  awe  for  the  result  of  this 
campaign  of  bonfires  !  I  am  so  ashamed  of  this  denoue- 
ment of  a  tragedy  that  was  horrible  to  behold  from 
the  number  of  conflagrations,  and  which  becomes  ridi- 
culous when  one  perceives  how  easily  it  might  have 
been  prevented  or  suppressed,""  that  I  shall  beg  to  be 
excused  from  saying  any  more  upon  it,  and  shall  change 
it  for  a  private  subject,  that  is  very  agreeable  to  me  ; 
and,  when  the  public  stands  in  a  contemptible  light,  do- 
mestic events  rise  in  importance. 

Lord  Egremont,f  who  has  for  some  time  been  in  love 
with  my  niece  Lady  Maria  Waldegrave,  the  Duchess's 
second  daughter,  has  at  last  had  an  audience,  and  de- 
manded her.  He  is  eight-and-twenty,  is  handsome,  and 
has  between  twenty  and  thirty  thousand  a-year.  You 
may  imagine  he  was  not  rejected  by  either  mother  or 
daughter.  The  daughter,  with  a  charming  person,  is 
less  beautiful  than  either  of  her  sisters,  though  more 
liked  by  most  men.  She  has  spirit,  a  great  deal  of  wit, 
and  the  sagacity  and  good-sense  of  her  father,  with  con- 

*  In  his  account  of  the  riots  to  Mrs.  Thrale,  Dr.  Johnson  says,  "  I 
walked  with  Dr.  Scot  to  look  at  Newgate,  and  found  it  in  ruins.  As 
I  went  by,  the  Protestants  were  plundering  the  Sessions-house  at  the  Old 
Bailey.  There  were  not,  I  believe,  a  hundred  ;  but  they  did  their  work 
at  leisure,  in  full  security,  without  sentinels,  without  trepidation,  as  men 
lawfully  employed  in  full  day.  Such  is  the  cowardice  of  a  commercial 
place  !  The  King  said  in  council,  '  that  the  magistrates  had  not  done 
their  duty,  but  that  he  would  do  his  own ;'  and  a  proclamation  was  pub- 
lished. There  has,  indeed,  been  an  universal  panic  ;  from  which  the  King 
was  the  first  that  recovered.'' — Ed. 

t  George  Windham,  second  Earl  of  Egremont. 


252  THE   HON.  HORACE    WALPOLE 

staiit  good-humour  and  cheerfulness.  We  are  all  happy 
with  this  alliance,  and  Lord  Egremont's  family  shows 
general  satisfaction.  I,  who  live  to  see  so  many  strange 
events,  did  not  expect  formerly  that  Sir  William  Wind- 
ham's *  grandson  would  marry  Sir  Robert  Walpole's 
great-grand-daughter,  to  the  equal  content  of  both 
houses.  The  Duke  and  Duchess,  with  the  little  Prince 
and  Princess,  the  bride,  her  sisters,  Lady  Egremont,f 
and  her  son  the  bridegroom,  were  all  at  Ranelagh  toge- 
ther last  night.  I  satisfied  myself  with  seeing  them  at 
Gloucester-house  before  they  went.  The  company,  I 
hear,  were  pleased  with  this  exhibition  ;  and,  in  truth, 
it  was  worth  seeing.  The  Duchess's  beauty  still  marks 
her  as  the  principal  object.  But  is  not  my  letter  like 
one  of  Shakespeare's  historic  plays — insurrections,  a 
marriage,  trials,  a  Court-pageant  1 — It  is  amusement  to 
one  who  looks  on  all,  as  I  do,  with  tranquil  eyes,  and 
whose  plan  it  certainly  never  was  to  be  included  in  any 
royal  drama.  It  was  one  of  Fortune's  caprices,  who 
loves  to  throw  her  vanities  into  the  lap  of  one  who 
never  stirred  an  inch  to  seek  or  meet  them.  To-morrow 
I  shall  return  alone  to  my  little  hill ;  pleased  that  my 
family  are  happy,  but  mourning  for  the  disgraces  of 
England.  A  little  while,  and  England  and  my  family 
will  be  no  more  my  care  ! 

*  Sir  William  Windham,  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  at  the  end  of 
the  reign  of  Queen  Anne,  was  a  principal  leader  of  the  Opposition  to  Sir 
Robert  Walpole. 

t  Alicia,  daughter  of  Lord  Carpenter,  Countess-Dowager  of  Egremont. 
She  married  secondly  Count  Bruhl,  Minister  from  Saxony,  and  was  Lady 
of  the  Bedchamber  to  Queen  Charlotte. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  253 


I.KTTER  CCCXXX1II. 


Berkeley  Square,  July  24,  1780. 

I  received  yours  of  June  30th,  and  have  this  mo- 
ment got  that  of  the  8th  of  this  month,  which  tells  me 
how  opportunely  mine  appeared  to  disperse  M.  de  Bar- 
bantan's  fictitious  visions.  It  will  be  fortunate  if  I  am 
able  hereafter  to  contradict  the  superstructure  he  shall 
raise  on  the  junction  of  the  fleets  of  Bourbon,  to  the 
amount  of  thirty-six  sail,  in  the  West  Indies  ;  where,  I 
doubt,  Sir  George  Rodney  is  far  from  superior.  We  en- 
tertain some  visions  too  ;  and,  since  the  reduction  of 
Charlestown,  look  on  America  as  at  our  feet.*''  We 
reckon,  too,  on  Spain's  desertion  of  the  family  compact ; 
— but  the  junction  of  their  fleets  is  no  capital  confir- 
mation, f  I  do  know  that  we  have  fallen  away  ex- 
tremely by  living  on  such  airy  sustenance.     For  these 

*  Dr.  Franklin,  writing  on  the  26th  from  Paris  to  a  friend  in  America, 
says,  "  You  seem  to  be  too  much  affected  with  the  loss  of  Charlestown. 
The  enemy's  affairs  will  not  he  much  advanced  by  it.  They  have  suc- 
cessively been  in  possession  of  the  capitals  of  five  provinces,  but  were  not 
therefore  in  possession  of  the  provinces  themselves.  The  cannon  will  be 
recovered  with  the  place ;  if  not,  our  furnaces  are  constantly  at  work  in 
making  more.  The  destroying  of  our  ships  by  the  English  is  only  like 
shaving  our  beards,  which  will  grow  again  :  their  loss  of  provinces  is 
like  the  loss  of  a  limb,  which  can  never  again  be  united  to  their  body." 
—Ed. 

+  It  appears  by  a  letter  written  by  Sir  George  Rodney  to  the  Admi- 
ralty, from  St.  Christopher's,  that  violent  disagreements  existed  between 
the  Spanish  and  French  admirals  ;  that  the  Spaniards  absolutely  refused 
to  co-operate  with  them  in  any  enterprise  whatever  ;  and  that  the  sick- 
ness and  mortality  in  both  fleets  had  reduced  them  very  much.  See 
Mundy's  Life  of  Rodney,  vol.  ii.  p.  364. — Ed. 


254  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

three,  or  four,  or  five  years  we  have  dined  on  meals  to 
come,  and  had  little  to  pick  but  the  bones  of  provisions 
we  have  lost.  As  I  have  nothing  new  to  communicate 
or  announce  in  the  political  line,  I  am  glad  to  quit  so 
disagreeable  a  theme. 

I  cannot  controul  your  ingenious  plea  against  the 
ex-post-facto  law  that  I  should  wish  to  establish,  on 
the  occasion  of  a  second  present  that  you  are  sending 
me — or  rather  a  thousandth  present ;  but  I  do  ear- 
nestly beg  it  may  be  the  last.  Mr.  Morrice  is  confined 
at  Paris  by  the  gout,  or  at  least  was  when  I  heard  of 
him ;  so,  I  cannot  particularize  my  thanks  yet :  though, 
the  more  I  like  what  he  brings  me,  the  less  I  shall  be 
able  to  refrain  from  scolding  you.  You  deserve  that  I 
should  serve  you  as  Mrs.  Bracegirdle,  the  vestal  actress, 
treated  the  old  Lord  Burlington,  with  whom  he  was 
in  love  in  vain.  One  day  he  sent  her  a  present  of 
some  fine  old  china.  She  told  the  servant  he  had 
made  a  mistake  ;  that  it  was  true  the  letter  was  for 
her,  but  the  china  for  his  lady,  to  whom  he  must  carry 
it.  Lord  !  the  Countess  was  so  full  of  gratitude  when 
her  husband  came  home  to  dinner !  Observe,  after 
the  ex-post-facto  crystal,  the  next  munificence  goes  to 
Linton  a  la  Bracegirdle  ;  and  I  do  not  think  I  am 
very  modest  to  begin  only  then. 

I  must  notify  the  rupture  of  our  great  match,  which 
I  announced  in  my  last.  Lord  Egremont,  who  proves 
a  most  worthless  young  fellow,  and  is  as  weak  and 
irresolute,  has  behaved  with  so  much  neglect  and  want 
of  attention,  that  Lady  Maria  heroically  took  the  reso- 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  25f> 

lution  of  writing  to  the  Duchess,  who  was  in  the 
country,  to  desire  her  leave  to  break  off  the  match. 
The  Duchess,  who  had  disliked  the  conduct  of  her 
future  son-in-law,  but  could  not  refuse  her  consent 
to  so  advantageous  a  match,  gladly  assented  ;  but  the 
foolish  boy,  by  new  indiscretion,  has  drawn  universal 
odium  on  himself.  He  instantly  published  the  rup- 
ture, but  said  nothing  of  Lady  Maria's  having  been 
the  first  to  declare  off;  and  thus  everybody  thinks 
he  broke  off  the  match,  and  condemns  him  ten  times 
more  than  would  have  been  the  case  if  he  had  told 
the  truth,  though  he  was  guilty  enough  in  giving  the 
provocation.  We  are  all  charmed  with  the  sense  and 
spirit  of  my  niece,  who  would  not  risk  so  probable  a 
chance  of  unhappiness,  though  the  fortune  was  so 
great,  and  she  could  not  dislike  his  person.  Still 
these  three  charming  girls  inherit  more  of  their 
mother's  beauty  than  of  her  fortune.  Each  has  missed 
one  of  the  first  matches  in  this  country  ;  Lady  Laura 
Lord  Carmarthen,""  Lady  Maria  Lord  Egremont,  Lady 
Horatia  the  Duke  of  Ancaster,  after  each  had  proposed 
and  been  accepted  !  The  fate  of  young  women  of  qua- 
lity is  hard  :  in  other  countries  they  are  shut  up 
till  their  parents  have  bargained  for,  without  consult- 
ing,  them  ;    here  they  are   exposed  to  the  addresses 

*  Son  of  the  Duke  of  Leeds.  The  marriage  was  broken  off,  the  Duke 
not  being  able  to  make  an  adequate  provision  ;  Lord  Carmarthen  having 
children  by  his  first  wife,  on  whom  the  whole  estate  was  settled.  The 
Duke  of  Ancaster  died  just  as  the  marriage  was  determined  upon.  Lady 
Laura  was  afterwards  married  to  her  first  cousin,  Lord  Chewton,  son 
of  the  Earl  of  Waldegrave. 


250  THE    HON.  HORACE    WALPOLE 

of  every  coxcomb  that  has  a  title  or  an  estate  to  war- 
rant his  impertinence. 

The  trial  of  Lord  George  Gordon  is  put  off  till  No- 
vember— I  do  not  know  why.  Dissatisfaction  grows 
again  on  the  continuance  of  the  camps,  and  on  the 
numbers  of  boys  that  have  been  executed  for  the  riots  ; 
for  the  bulk  of  the  criminals  are  so  young,  that  half  a 
dozen  schoolmasters  might  have  quashed  the  insurrec- 
tion.""" There  does  not  appear  to  have  been  the  least 
connection  or  concert  between  the  several  mobs  ;  nor 
any  motive  in  them  but  a  sudden  impulse  of  mischief, 
actuated  by  the  contagion  of  example  and  encouraged 
by  the  inactivity  of  all  gradations  of  Government.  The 
Ministers  did  nothing  to  prevent  or  stop  the  tumult ;  the 
justices  of  peace  shrunk  ;  the  courts  of  justice  thought 
of  shutting  up  shops  ;  the  House  of  Lords  adjourned, 
and  so   did  the   House  of  Commons,  even  after   the 

*  Of  the  one  hundred  and  thirty-five  individuals  tried  for  riots,  fifty- 
nine  were  convicted.  With  a  view  to  the  extension  of  the  royal  mercy 
to  the  chief  part  of  the  unhappy  rioters,  Mr.  Burke  drew  up  "  Some 
Thoughts  on  the  approaching  Executions,"  and  exerted  his  influence  in 
pressing  letters  to  the  Lord  Chancellor,  the  President  of  the  Council,  and 
the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  to  suhmit  his  opinions  to  the  King  and  to 
Lord  North.  "  Every  circumstance  of  mercy  and  of  comparative  justice 
does,"  he  says,  "  in  my  opinion,  plead  in  favour  of  such  low,  untaught,  or 
ill-taught  wretches  :  hut,  above  all,  the  policy  of  Government  is  deeply 
interested,  that  the  punishments  should  appear  one  solemn  and  deliberate 
act,  aimed,  not  at  random  and  at  particular  offences,  but  done  with  a  re- 
lation to  the  general  spirit  of  the  tumults  ;  and  they  ought  to  be  nothing 
more  than  what  is  sufficient  to  mark  and  discountenance  that  spirit." 
For  the  guilty  instigators  of  the  tumults  Mr.  Burke  had  no  such  consi- 
deration ;  for  it  is  stated,  that  on  seeing  some  of  the  leading  Associators 
in  the  lobby  of  the  House  of  Commons,  he  exclaimed  loudly  in  their 
hearing,  "  I  am  astonished  that  those  men  can  have  the  audacity  still  to 
nose  Parliament." — En. 


TO    SIR  HORACE   MANN.  257 

worst  was  past.  A  capital  blazing,  and  held  in  terror 
for  a  week  by  so  contemptible  a  rabble,  will  not  tell 
well  in  story  !  I  pity  our  future  historians,  who  will 
find  plenty  of  victories  in  our  gazettes,  and  scarce  any- 
where else !     Adieu ! 


LETTER  CCCXXXIV. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Aug.  24,  1780. 

I  have  waited  for  news,  till  I  can  send  you  none  but 
bad.  The  Russian  fleet  is  stalking  in  our  channel,  and 
our  own  East  and  West  India  outward-bound  fleets  are 
gobbled  up  by  the  Spanish  squadron  off  Cape  Finis- 
terre.  This  is  the  heaviest  commercial  blow  we  have 
yet  received  at  once.*  It  is  an  age  since  we  have  heard 
from  America.  We  attributed  the  silence  to  an  obsti- 
nate east-wind  that  blew  for  nine-and-twenty  days. 
There  have  been  parentheses  of  West  since,  and  we 
expect  news  every  moment,  and  with  anxiety.  Thus 
you  see  I  do  not  resign  my  post  of  your  gazetteer,  though 
it  is  but  an  irksome  office  when  it  is  to  record  our 
wane.  The  re-conquest  of  America,  I  believe,  is  less 
near  than  you  foreigners  conjecture,  and  than  has  been 
so  confidently  foretold  at  home.  All  I  know  is,  that 
we  have  been  gaming  for  what  was  our  own.  When 
we  leave  off  play,  we  shall  see  whether  we  have  won  or 

*  On  the  9th  of  August,  a  rich  and  considerable  convoy  for  the  East 
and  West  Indies,  under  the  conduct  of  Captain  Moutray  of  the  Ramilies, 
and  two  or  three  frigates,  which  had  sailed  from  Portsmouth,  were  inter- 
cepted by  the  combined  fleets,  under  Don -Louis  de  Cordova.  The  Ra- 
milies and  the  frigates  had  the  fortune  to  escape. — Ed. 

VOL.  III.— NEW  SERIES.  S 


258  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

lost ;  nay,  should  we  recover  our  stake,  we  must  com- 
pute what  it  has  cost.  The  card-money  has  not  been 
cheap. 

The  Countess  Cowper,*  mother-in-law  of  your  pinch- 
beck Prince,  is  dead  of  a  cancer.  Her  own  son,  Lord 
Spencer,  is  in  a  bad  state  of  health.  Each  gets  a  join- 
ture by  her  death. 

Mr.  Windham,  I  hear,  is  at  Brussels  on  his  return. 
I  am  peevish  with  him  for  having  looked  on  you 
through  our  ill-humoured  foggy  eyes.  I  have  almost 
always  been  out  of  luck  in  my  recommendations  ;  but 
I  assure  you  I  do  you  ample  justice,  and  have  always 
been  completely  convinced  that  they  have  been  in 
fault.  Your  temper  and  flowing  benevolence  for  forty 
years  have  been  always  uniform  ;  and  it  is  least  of  all 
likely  that  you  should  grow  sour  only  to  those  I  inter- 
fere for.  I  know  you  and  my  countrymen  better.  The 
latter  have  retained  few  of  their  virtues,  but  I  do  not 
find  that  they  have  exchanged  them  for  urbanity.  Mr. 
Windham,  I  believe,  is  a  worthy  man,  but  I  wish  he 
had  been  less  morose. 

P.S.  I  have  heard  this  evening,  that  an  account  is 
arrived  of  Walsingham    having  joined  Rodney, f  and 

*  Giorgina,  daughter  of  John  Carteret,  Earl  of  Granville,  first  married 
to  John  Spencer,  only  brother  of  Charles  Duke  of  Marlborough  ;  and 
secondly  to  the  second  Earl  Cowper,  to  whom  she  was  second  wife. 

f  Even  when  joined  by  Commodore  Walsingham's  squadron,  Rodney 
still  found  his  force  so  inferior  to  that  of  the  enemy,  that  he  could  only 
act  on  the  defensive,  and  was  consequently  unable  to  seek  an  engage- 
ment. Owing  to  the  pestilential  disorder  among  the  Spanish  forces,  and 
the  dissension  in  the  combined  fleet,  nothing  material  was  attempted 
before  the  belligerent  powers  found  themselves  obliged  to  quit  the  Indian 


TO   SIR    HORACE   MANN.  259 

that  the  Russian  fleet  is  returned  to  the  Pole.  Do  not 
imagine,  by  this  short  letter,  that,  though  I  do  not  clr<  >p 
our  correspondence,  I  am  curtailing  it  by  degrees.  I 
could  lengthen  my  letter  by  dwelling  on  circum- 
stances ;  but  that  is  not  my  manner.  I  seldom  even 
inquire  after  them.  The  result  of  events  is  all  I  wish 
to  know  and  to  communicate.  How  can  one  wish  to 
learn  what  one  does  not  wish  to  remember1?  The 
newspapers  give  you  details.  I  pretend  but  to  skim 
the  current  of  facts,  and  to  mark  what  is  true  for  your 
information.  The  multiplicity  of  lies  coined  every 
day  only  perplexes,  not  instructs.  When  I  send  you 
falsehoods,  at  least  I  believe  or  think  them  probable 
at  the  time,  and  correct  myself  afterwards,  when  I  per- 
ceive I  have  been  misled.  I,  who  am  in  no  secrets, 
trust  to  facts  alone,  as  far  as  they  come  to  light. 
Mercy  on  future  historians,  whose  duty  it  will  be  to  sift 
the  ashes  of  all  the  tales  with  which  the  narratives  of 
the  present  war  have  been  crammed !  Some  will  re- 
main inexplicable.  This  jaunt  of  the  Russian  squa- 
dron will  be  one  of  the  enigmas. 


LETTER  CCCXXXV. 

Berkeley  Square,  Sept.  19,  1780. 

As  I  think  you  do   not  suspect  me  of  neglect 
when  I  have  anything  worth  telling  you,  you  will  per- 

seas,  in  order  to  avoid  the  fury  of  the  hurricane  months.     See  Life  of 
Keppel,  vol.  ii.  p.  284. — Ed. 

s  2 


2G0  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

ceive  that  there  are  periods  when  it  takes  a  good  deal 
of  time  to  form  events — a  whole  campaign  may  not  pro- 
duce two.  At  other  seasons  the  market  is  overstocked  ; 
or,  after  a  glut,  there  is  a  scarcity.  The  dissolution  of 
the  Parliament  could  not  surprise  you,  it  had  been  so 
announced.  Your  nephew,  I  see  by  the  papers,  is 
re-elected.  I  have  no  other  intelligence  ;  and,  of  all 
articles  of  news,  those  on  elections  are  the  last  I  seek. 
T  know  as  little  what  the  fleets  are  doing  ;  or  where  they 
are,  doing  nothing.  One  thing  I  do  discern,  that  the 
approaching  recovery  of  America  is  about  as  near  as 
the  Millennium.  Prophecy  will  sink  as  low  as  fortune- 
telling  :  no  gipsy  is  less  to  be  credited  than  our  pre- 
dicting politicians,  who,  for  these  last  five  or  six  years, 
have  been  cruelly  brought  to  shame  on  the  conquests 
they  have  announced.  By  their  bubbles  the  nation  are 
almost  stripped  of  their  last  shilling,  like  the  dupes  who 
hunt  after  the  philosopher's  stone.  America  is  now  like 
the  Holy  Land  ;  none  but  bigots  and  madmen  will  think 
of  subduing  it  :  nor  does  the  tone  of  resumption  much 
become  us,  who  are  not  in  the  ascending  scale. 

Admiral  Keppel  has  been  thrown  out  at  Windsor, 
and,  it  is  pretended,  by  the  personal  veto  of  the  first 
inhabitant  of  the  Castle  :  the  consequence  already  has 
been  that  the  counties  of  Surrey  and  Suffolk  solicited 
the  honour  of  electing  the  Admiral,  who  has  accepted 
the  offer  from  the  former.  * 


*  On  the  dissolution  of  Parliament,  Admiral  Keppel,  who  had  repre- 
sented Windsor  for  nearly  twenty  years,  repaired  to  the  electors  to  solicit 
a  renewal  of  their  suffrages  ;  but  since  he  had  last  appeared  before  them, 


TO   SIR  HORACE  MANN.  261 

Seven  new  barons  are  made  :  Earl  Talbot,  that  the 
peerage  may  descend  to  his  daughter's""'  children ; 
Sir  William  De  Grey,f  late  Chief  Justice  ;  Lord  Gage, 
turned  into  an  English  peer  ;  General  Fitzroyf  ;  Mr. 
Brudenelf ;  Mr.  Herbert  f  ;  and  Sir  William  Bagot. 
There  have  been  some  shiftings  of  places  of  the  second 
rate,  and  some  promotions,  but  none  of  consequence. 

This  is  literally  the  sum  total  of  my  knowledge  ; 
as  I  have  such  a  fair  field  of  paper  lying  before  me, 
you  may  be  sure  I  would  embroider  it  if  I  had  where- 
withal. However,  I  have  less  scruple  in  sending  such 
a  scrap,  as  I  must  write  to  you  again  soon,  for  I  hear  Mr. 
Morrice  is  arrived  in  England.  Where  he  is,  I  cannot 
tell,  but  I  trust  I  shall  see  or  hear  from  him  soon  ; 
and  then  I  am  as  certain  of  having  cause  to  thank  you 
— which,  by  the  way,  I  do  d'avance :  but,  though  my 
gratitude  will  always  last,  you  are  to  remember  that  it 
is  never  to  receive  any  additional  fund. 

he  had  become  such  an  object  of  dislike  to  the  Court  and  the  Govern- 
ment, that  their  joint  influence  was  exerted  against  his  return.  In  his 
speech  from  the  hustings,  the  Admiral,  after  alluding  to  the  report  that 
the  King  had  personally  taken  a  part  in  the  proceedings  against  him,  said, 
"  This  cannot  be  true.  It  ought  not  to  be  believed.  It  must  not  be  be- 
lieved." Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  285.  Mr.  Erskine,  in  a  pamphlet  which  he 
wrote  at  the  time,  affirmed,  that  "  the  highest  power  of  the  Government, 
not  contented  with  having  deprived  the  nation  of  Keppel's  abilities  in 
his  profession,  had  made  itself  a  party  to  rob  it  likewise  of  his  zeal 
and  honesty  in  the  senate." — Ed. 

*  Lady  Cecil  Rice,  wife  of  George  Rice  ;  on  her  father's  death  she 
became  Baroness  of  Dinevor. 

■f  Sir  W.  De  Grey  was  created  Lord  Walsingham,  General  Fitzroy 
Lord  Southampton,  and  Mr.  Herbert  Lord  Portchester.  James  Brudenel, 
made  Lord  Brudenel,  was  next  brother  of  George  Duke  of  Montagu,  and 
Earl  of  Cardigan. 


262  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

LETTER  CCCXXXVI. 

Berkeley  Square,  Oct.  4,  1780. 

I  have  received  your  packet  by  Mr.  Sutherland, 
and  am  delighted  with  its  contents.  Your  news  would 
be  much  the  best  part,  but  I  doubt  is  not  so  far  ad- 
vanced as  to  expect  sudden  effect.  The  History  of  the 
House  of  Medici  will  be  welcome  indeed.  I  see  one 
has  but  to  form  wishes  early,  and  live  long  enough, 
and  they  will  all  be  fulfilled.  The  Famiglia  estinta* 
made  me  smile.  If  that  condition  brings  one  ac- 
quainted with  their  true  story,  it  would  not  make 
one  very  zealous  for  successors  in  some  foreign  royal 
families ;  for  instance,  I  should  not  pray  for  issue  to 
the  Great-Duke  of  Russia.  I  beg  you  will  subscribe 
for  three  sets  for  me  and  two  of  my  friends.  I  should 
like  to  have  carta  ceridea ;  not  because  it  is  the  dear- 
est, but  because  I  do  not  know  what  it  is,  and  there- 

*  It  was  written  by  Galluzzi,  from  authentic  papers  furnished  by  the 
Austrian  Grand-Duke  Leopold  ;  who  said  that,  as  the  House  of  Me- 
dici was  extinct,  there  was  no  reason  for  not  writing  their  true  story. 
This  History  was  published  in  1781,  after  the  death  of  the  Empress- 
Queen  ;  whose  prejudices  would  probably  have  prevented  it,  had  she 
known  of  her  son's  intention  ;  as  it  is  not  at  all  favourable  to  the  Court  of 
Rome.  [Galluzzi's  work  is  intitled  "  Istoria  del  Gran  Ducato  di  Tos- 
cano  sotto  il  Governo  della  Casa  Medici,"  and  was  published  in  five 
volumes  quarto.  Sir  Nathaniel  Wraxall,  who  visited  Florence  in  1779, 
says  of  Sir  Horace  Mann,  that  he  had  long  outlived  the  extinction  of  the 
House  of  Medici,  for  which  race  of  princes  he  seemed  to  preserve  the 
same  predilection,  which  Brantome  always  manifests  for  the  family  of 
Valois  above  the  line  of  Bourbon.  He  adds,  that  Sir  Horace  personally 
knew  the  last  Grand-Duke  of  the  Medicean  line,  John  Gaston,  who  died 
in  1737  ;  in  consequence  of  whose  decease  without  issue,  those  beautiful 
portions  of  Italy,  constituting  his  dominions,  were  finally  transferred  to  a 
Prince  of  Lorraine. — Ed.] 


TO    Silt   HORACE    MANN.  263 

fore  conclude,  like  the  vulgar,  that  it  is  something 
mighty  fine.  I  hope  no  soul  that  has  interest  to  stop 
it,  will  get  an  inkling  of  the  work. 

Your  ring  I  have  not  yet  received,  though  Mr.  Mor- 
rice  is  arrived.  Indeed,  displeased  as  I  was  at  your 
superabundant  kindness  in  sending  it,  I  am  now  afraid 
I  shall  never  possess  it.  All  my  disinterestedness 
could  not  resist  dunning  Mr.  Morrice  ;  and,  behold,  he 
has  sent  me  word  that  by  some  mal-entendu  it  was 
packed  up  in  his  heavy  baggage,  which,  by  another,  is 
still  at  Margate  !  Oh !  how  can  one  flatter  one's  self 
that  a  ring  in  a  bottle  of  heavy  baggage  will  ever  be 
found  !  or,  rather,  will  not  be  found  and  stolen  by 
some  custom-house  officer !  Mr.  Morrice  was  a  fine 
person  to  trust  a  gem  to  !  I  suppose  he  would  have 
stuffed  a  lady's  picture  for  her  lover  into  a  jack- 
boot ! 

General  Dalrymple  is  arrived  from  Sir  Henry  Clin- 
ton, with  heavy  baggage  indeed,  full  of  bad  news  !  The 
Gazette  has  produced  only  samples,  strewed  over  with 
fine  sugar,  to  make  it  as  palatable  and  little  bitter  as 
possible  ;  but  the  sum  total  is,  that  adieu  to  America ! 
All  the  visions  that  mounted  in  fumes  into  our  heads 
from  the  capture  of  Charlestown  are  turned  to  smoke  ; 
and  it  were  well  if  it  would  rest  there.  To  be  cured 
of  that  dream  would  be  no  calamity  ;  but  I  wish  we 
may  have  no  collateral  losses  !  I  fear  we  ache  in 
some  islands,  and  are  not  quite  without  twitches  on 
the  continent  of  America.  Well !  as  I  was  right  in 
foreseeing  some   miserable   issue  from    the  American 


264  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

war,  I  have  a  mind  to  try  my  skill  in  foretelling  peace. 
Tis  sure  I  wish  it  most  fervently. 

Last  week  I  was  alarmed  with  a  calamity  nearer  to 
my  heart  than  politics.  General  Conway  broke  his  arm 
by  a  fall.  But  I  have  been  with  him,  and  he  is  in  the 
most  favourable  way  possible,  and  has  not  had  the 
smallest  degree  of  fever. 

You  must  reckon  this  short  letter  the  second  part  of 
my  last,  which  was  short  too  ;  or  as  the  beginning  of 
my  next,  for,  if  ever  I  get  my  ring,  I  shall  certainly 
write  again  to  thank  you,  though  I  should  have  nothing 
else  to  say.  I  could  have  made  this  longer,  but  I  do 
not  like  to  entertain  every  foreign  post-office  with  what 
they  would  not  dislike. 


LETTER  CCCXXXVII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Oct.  7,  1780. 

Part  the  second  behold  already — for  I  have  re- 
ceived the  gem,  which  from  ignorance  I  called  a  ring, 
and  beg  its  pardon  :  it  is  much  too  large  for  so  little 
an  appellation,  and  is  most  beautiful  too,  and  of  exqui- 
site sculpture.  All  this  makes  matters  worse,  for,  the 
finer  it  is,  the  more  I  am  ashamed  ;  and  therefore  can- 
not thank  you  half  so  much  as  it  deserves.  Yet  I  will 
be  very  grateful,  upon  condition  of  its  never  having  a 
successor.  You  must  tell  me  what  the  connoisseurs 
have  baptized  it.  Is  it  an  Apollo  or  an  Amazon  ?  A 
handsome  young  god  and  a  heroine  approach  so  much 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  265 

to  the  boundaries  of  the  sexes,  that  they  are  not  easily 
discriminated  in  so  small  an  area.  Mr.  Morrice  has 
fairly  excused  his  delay.  After  he  had  put  to  sea,  they 
apprehended  a  privateer  ;  on  which  he  sent  back 
his  baggage  to  Ostend,  and  with  it  his  most  valuable 
treasures.  My  gem  has  escaped  all  these  perils,  and 
arrived  like  the  lost  sheep.  You  cannot  imagine  how 
the  Caligula,  and  the  Bianca  Capello,  and  Benvenuto's 
coffer,  and  the  Castiglione,  and  all  your  presents,  em- 
braced and  hugged  it,  and  inquired  after  you.  The  new- 
comer is  lodged  in  a  glass-case  in  my  tribune,  over 
against  Caligula, 

As  I  wrote  to  you  but  two  days  ago — nay,  my  letter 
would  leave  London  but  to-night, — I  have  no  news  to 
add  :  however,  I  may  have  ;  for  this  will  not  go  hence 
till  Tuesday  morning,  to  be  ready  for  that  night's  mail. 
■ — But  I  was  so  impatient  to  tell  you  the  cameo  is  safe, 
and  that  your  munificence  is  not  thrown  away  entirely, 
that  I  could  not  help  beginning  my  letter  now,  though 
the  rest  of  my  paper  must  depend  on  the  charity  of  ac- 
cident and  events  :  and,  if  they  will  not  assist  it,  I  do 
not  care, — go  it  shall ;  I  will  not  owe  you  a  moment's 
gratitude  that  I  can  pay.  Nay,  I  will  heap  coals  of 
fire  on  my  own  head  ;  for  all  your  gifts  shall  be  entered 
in  the  printed  catalogue  of  my  collection  as  your  pre- 
sents,— and  then  whoever  reads  it  will  cry,  "  Why,  had 
he  no  shame  1  " — Oh,  yes,  a  vast  deal ;  and  this  is  one 
of  his  ways  of  doing  penance. 

Oct.  9th. 

Since  I  wrote  the  above,  I  have  heard  from  Paris  of 


266  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

the  death  of  my  dear  old  friend  Madame  du  Deffand, 
whom  I  went  so  often  thither  to  see.  It  was  not  quite 
unexpected,  and  was  softened  by  her  great  age,— eighty- 
four, — which  forbad  distant  hopes ;  and,  by  what  I 
dreaded  more  than  her  death,  her  increasing  deafness, 
which,  had  it  become,  like  her  blindness,  total,  would 
have  been  living  after  death.  Her  memory  only  began 
to  impair ;  her  amazing  sense  and  quickness,  not  at  all. 
I  have  written  to  her  once  a-week  for  these  last  fifteen 
years,  as  correspondence  and  conversation  could  be  her 
only  pleasures."'"  You  see  that  I  am  the  most  faithful 
letter- writer  in  the  world — and,  alas !  never  see  those 
I  am  so  constant  to  !  One  is  forbidden  common-place 
reflections  on  these  misfortunes,  because  they  are  com- 
mon-place ;  but  is  not  that,  because  they  are  natural  ? 
But  your  never  having  known  that  dear  old  woman  is  a 
better  reason  for  not  making  you  the  butt  of  my  concern. 
Lord  George  Gordon  has  just  got  a  neighbour — I 
believe,  not  a  companion  ;  for  state  prisoners  are  not 
allowed  to  be  very  sociable.  Laurens,  lately  Presi- 
dent of  the  Congress,  has  been  taken  by  a  natural  son 

*  Madame  du  Deffand  died  on  the  24th  of  September,  at  Paris,  and 
was  buried,  pursuant  to  her  own  directions,  in  the  plainest  manner,  in 
her  parisli  church  of  S.  Sulpice.  The  whole  of  her  manuscripts,  papers, 
letters,  and  books,  she  left  to  Horace  Walpole  ;  her  favourite  dog,  Tonton, 
was  also  sent  over  to  him,  at  her  especial  desire.  In  her  last  letter  to 
him,  which  is  dated  the  22nd  of  August,  only  five  weeks  before  her 
death,  she  thus  strikingly  describes  her  condition  : — "  Jc  suis  d'une 
faiblesse  et  d'un  abattement  excessifs  :  ma  voix  est  eteinte  ;  je  ne  puis 
me  soutcnir  sur  mes  jambes  ;  je  ne  puis  me  donner  aucun  mouvement  ; 
j'ai  le  coeur  enveloppe  :  j'ai  de  la  peine  a  croire  que  cct  e'tat  ne  m'an- 
nonce  une  fin  prochaine.  Je  n'ai  pas  la  force  d'en  etrc  effrayee  ;  ct  ne 
vous  devant  rcvoir  de  ma  vie,  je  n'ai  rien  a  regretter." — Ed. 


TO    SIR  HORACE    MANN.  2G7 

of  the  last  Lord  Albemarle,*  and  brought  to  England,  to 
London,  to  the  Tower.  He  was  going  Ambassador  to 
Holland,  and  his  papers  are  captured  too.  I  should 
think  they  would  tell  us  but  what  we  learnt  a  fortnight 
ago  ;  and  (which  is  more  wonderful,  what  we  would 
not  believe  till  a  fortnight  ago)  that  there  is  an  end  of 
our  American  dream  !  Perhaps  they  will  give  us  back 
a  cranny  in  exchange  for  their  negotiator. 

I  go  again  to-morrow  to  see  General  Conway,  and 
hope  to  find  him  out  of  bed  ;  and  I  finish  my  letter, 
that  I  may  not  run  into  meditations  on  what  is  upper- 
most in  my  mind, — mortality  and  its  accidents ! 

At  night. 

I  have  just  heard  some  news  that  you  will  like  to 
hear,  and  which  will  make  you  hold  up  your  head  again 
a  little  vis-a-vis  de  M.  de  Barbantane.  An  express 
arrived  to-day  from  Lord  Cornwallis,  who  with  two 

*  The  following  is  from  a  letter  written  by  Admiral  Keppel,  on  the 
11th,  to  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham: — "  Just  before  bed-time,  Captain 
George  Keppel  surprised  me  with  his  appearance.  I  learnt  from  him 
that  he  had  come  home  express  from  his  admiral ;  that  he  had  taken  a 
packet-boat  conveying  Mr.  Laurens,  once  President  of  the  Congress  in 
America,  to  Holland.  The  captain  told  me  that  he  had  taken  out  of  the 
water  (which  had  failed  of  sinking)  a  very  large  bag  of  papers,  which  he 
had  brought  home  for  the  King's  Ministers.  He  had  been  very  civil  to 
his  prisoner,  who,  after  his  bad  luck  in  being  taken,  found  out  that  he  had 
fallen  into  the  hands  of  a  moderate  young  man,  and  had  no  difficulty  in 
talking  with  him.  He  told  Captain  Keppel  that  he  should  not  answer  any 
questions  put  to  him  by  Ministers.  The  unfortunate  gentleman  is  con- 
fined in  the  Tower."  The  capture  of  Mr.  Laurens,  or  rather  the  recovery 
of  the  papers  which  had  been  thrown  overboard,  led  to  the  discovery  of  a 
commercial  treaty  about  to  be  entered  into  between  Amsterdam  and  the 
American  colonies.  This  induced  our  Government  to  remonstrate,  and 
finally,  on  the  20th  of  December,  to  declare  war  against  Holland.  See 
Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  293.— En. 


268  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

thousand  men  has  attacked  General  Gates  in  Carolina 
at  the  head  of  seven  thousand,  and  entirely  defeated 
him,  killed  nine  hundred,  and  taken  one  thousand  pri- 
soners ;  and  there  has  since  been  a  little  codicil,  of  all 
which  you  will  see  the  particulars  in  the  to-morrow's 
Gazette. — But  it  is  very  late,  and  this  must  go  to  town 
early  in  the  morning.  I  allow  you  to  triumph,  though 
Gates  is  my  godson,  and  your  namesake. 


LETTER  CCCXXXVIII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Nov.  2,  1780. 

If  the  word  New  Parliament  did  not  impose  a 
sort  of  duty  on  me, — at  least,  if  you  would  not  expect  it, 
— I  think  I  should  scarce  write  to  you  yet,  for  I  have  no- 
thing to  tell  you  but  that  il  ne  valoit  pas  la  peine  de 
changer.  There  are  several  new  members,  but  no 
novelty  in  style  or  totality  of  votes.  The  Court  may 
have  what  number  it  chuses  to  buy.  It  has  nominated 
a  new  Speaker,  Mr.  Cornwall."'"  Sir  Fletcher,  who  never 
haggles  with  shame,  published  his  own  disgrace,  and  de- 

*  Mr.  Cornwall  was  proposed  by  Lord  George  Germain,  and  Sir 
Fletcher  Norton  by  Mr.  Dunning.  On  a  division  the  numbers  were,  for 
the  former  203,  for  the  latter  134.  Mr.  Wilberforce,  who  had  been  re- 
turned at  the  general  election  for  Hull,  gave  his  first  vote  in  Parliament 
against  the  re-election  of  Sir  Fletcher  to  the  Chair  of  the  House.  In  his 
Conversational  Memoranda  there  is  this  entry  : — "  When  they  were  all 
talking  of  Sir  Fletcher's  health  requiring  his  retirement,  Rigby  came  into 
the  House,  and  said  with  his  ordinary  bluntness,  '  Don't  tell  me  about 
health,  he  lias  flown  in  the  King's  face,  and  we  won't  have  him.'  " — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  209 

clared  he  had  l>ecn  laid  aside  without  notice.  Courts  do 
not  always  punish  their  own  profligates  so  justly. 

There  is  no  new  public  event  at  home  or  from  abroad. 
The  Spanish  negotiation  does  not  seem  to  advance  at 
all.  Prince  Frederic,  the  Bishop,  is  going  to  Ger- 
many ;  and  then  the  Prince  of  Wales  is  to  have  some- 
thing of  a  family. 

Our  old  acquaintance  Lord  Pomfret,  whose  madness 
has  lain  dormant  for  some  time,  is  broken  out  again  ; 
I  mean,  his  madness  is.  He  went  down  to  Euston  last 
week,  and  challenged  the  Duke  of  Grafton  for  an  af- 
front offered  to  him,  he  said,  when  the  Duke  was 
Minister — you  know  what  an  age  ago  that  was.  The 
Duke  declared  his  innocence,  and  advised  him  to  con- 
sider on  it.  He  did  for  two  days ;  then  said  he  was 
now  cool,  yet  insisted  on  satisfaction.  The  Duke  gave 
both  letters  to  a  magistrate,  and  then  swore  the  peace 
against  him ;  the  only  rational  thing  to  be  done. 
The  Earl  some  years  ago  had  many  of  these  flippancies, 
and  used  to  call  out  gentlemen  in  the  playhouse,  who 
he  pretended  had  made  faces  at  him.  As  madmen 
are  generally  cunning  and  malicious,  it  was  generally 
such  as  looked  unlikely  to  resent,  whom  he  picked 
out.  Once  he  unluckily  selected  General  Moyston,  and, 
drawing  his  curtains  early  in  the  morning,  bade  him 
rise  and  follow  him  into  Hyde  Park,  for  having  laugh- 
ed at  him  at  Court.  Moyston  denied  having  even 
seen  him  there.  "  Oh,  then,  it  is  very  well,"  said  my 
lord.     "  No,  by  God,  is  not  it,"  replied  the  general ; 


270  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

"  you  have  disturbed  me  when  I  had  been  in  bed  but 
three  hours,  and  now  you  shall  give  me  satisfaction:" 
but  the  Earl  begged  to  be  excused.  There  was  a  Mr. 
Palmes  Robinson,  who  used  to  say  publicly  that  he 
had  often  got  Lord  Pomfret  as  far  as  Hyde  Park 
Corner,  but  never  could  get  him  any  farther. 

Mr.  Windham  I  have  seen.  He  is  wonderfully  re- 
covered, and  looks  robust  again.  He  said  ten  thou- 
sand fine  things  in  your  praise.  Oh !  thought  I ;  but  said 
nothing.  Mr.  Morrice  I  have  not  yet  seen  :  he  is  con- 
fined in  the  country  by  the  gout,  and  I  hear  looks 
dreadfully. 

I  have  seen  lately  in  the  Abbe  Richard's  Voyage 
d'ltalie,  written  in  1762,  that  in  the  Palais  Pitti  were 
preserved  two  large  volumes  of  the  Travels  of  Cosimo 
III.,  with  views  of  the  houses  he  had  been  at ;  and 
he  names  England  amongst  them,  where  he  certainly 
was.""  Could  you  find  out  if  there  is  such  a  thing,  and 
get  a  sight  of  it  %  I  should  be  very  curious  to  know 
what  English  seats  are  there.  Old  English  mansions 
are  great  objects  with  me — but  do  not  give  yourself 
much  trouble  about  this  request. 

3rd. 

You  perceive  that  I  am  not  likely  to  have  great 
Parliamentary  news  to  tell  you.  This  week  they  are 
only  being  sworn  in.  The  first  debate  in  the  Commons 
was  to  be  next  Monday,  but  probably  will  not,  for 
last  night  Lord  North  was  very  ill  of  a  fever.     They 

*  A  translation  of  the  Travels  of  Cosmo  the  Third,  Grand-Duke  of 
Tuscany,  was  published  in  a  quarto  volume  in  1820. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  271 

can  no  more  go  on  without  their  Treasurer,  than  with- 
out their  pensions.  Sir  Horace  the  second,  I  take 
for  granted,  will  tell  you  of  the  common  debates.  I 
clo  not  mean  to  relax  myself,  but  seldom  know  much 
of  their  details,  which  I  think  of  little  consequence  ; 
and  rather  reserve  myself  for  confirming  or  contradict- 
ing reports  of  considerable  events. 


LETTER  CCCXXXIX. 

Berkeley  Square,  Nov.  20,  1780. 

As  I  apprised  you  that  the  new  Parliament  did 
not  promise  to  be  very  active,  you  will  account  for 
my  having  told  you  none  of  its  proceedings.  It  has 
been  more  confined  to  personalities  than  divisions. 
The  latter  have  proved  much  in  favour  of  the  Court  : 
but  then  some  of  the  chiefs  of  the  Opposition  have 
in  a  manner  seceded,  not  from  their  party,  but  from 
action  ;  and  less  from  change  than  from  disagreement. 
Lord  Pomfret,  after  a  week's  imprisonment  in  the 
Tower,  made  his  submission,  has  been  reprimanded, 
and  released  on  giving  his  honour  (a  madman's 
honour !)  not  to  repeat  his  offence.  The  grand  jury 
have  found  the  bill  of  high  treason  against  his  fel- 
low-prisoner Lord  George  Gordon,  who,  however,  will 
not  be  tried  till  after  Christmas.  I  do  not  know  why. 
— So  much  for  Parliament. 

The  newspapers  have  told  you  as  much  as  I  know 
of  Arnold's  treachery,  which  has  already  cost  the  life 


272  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

of  a  much  better  man,  Major  Andree* — precipitated 
probably  by  Lord  Cornwallis's  cruelty.  You  hear 
on  the  Continent,  but  too  much  of  our  barbarity  ; 
the  only  way  in  which  we  have  yet  shown  our  power ! 
Rodney  found  Rhode  Island  so  strongly  fortified  that 
he  returned  to  the  West  Indies  ;  and  yet  we  still 
presume  on  recovering  America ! 

Do  you  wonder  that,  witness  to  so  much  delusion 
and  disgrace,  it  should  grow  irksome  to  me  to  be  the 
annalist  of  our  follies  and  march  to  ruin  \  I  cannot, 
like  our  newspapers,  falsify  every  event,  and  coin 
prophecies  out  of  bad  omens.  My  friendship  for  you 
makes  me  persist  in  our  correspondence  ;  but  tender- 
ness for  my  country  makes  me  abhor  detailing  its 
errors,  and  regard  to  truth  will  not  allow  me  to  as- 
sert what  I  do  not  believe.  I  wait  for  events,  that  I 
may  send  you  something ;  and  yet  my  accounts  are 
dry  and  brief,  because  I  confine  myself  to  avowed  facts, 
without  comments  or  credulity.  My  society  is  grown 
very  narrow,  and  it  is  natural  at  sixty-three  not  to 
concern  myself  in  the  private  historjr  of  those  that 
might  be  my  grandchildren.  Even  their  sallies  become 
less  splendid  as  opulence  is  vanished ;  and,  though  na- 
tional follies  forerun  and  contribute  to  the  decline  of 


*  This  unfortunate  gentleman,  having  heen  employed  by  Sir  Henry 
Clinton  to  carry  on  a  negotiation  with  the  noted  American  general  Ar- 
nold, about  to  betray  the  trust  reposed  in  him  by  his  countrymen,  was, 
in  the  performance  of  his  hazardous  duty,  taken  prisoner  by  the  Ameri- 
cans, and,  owing  to  his  disguise  and  the  nature  of  his  mission,  was  tried 
by  a  court-martial  and  executed  as  a  spy.  A  monument,  by  order  of 
the  King,  was  erected  to  his  memory  in  Westminster  Abbey. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  273 

a  great  country,  they  stop  with  it,  not  from  repent- 
ance, but  impotence.  Tis  insolent  power  that  tram- 
ples on  laws  and  morals.  Poverty  is  only  vicious  by 
imitation,  or  refractory  from  oppression.  Robbery, 
indeed,  continues  at  high-water  mark,  though  the 
army  and  navy  have  drawn  off  such  hosts  of  outlaws 
and  vagrants.  That  they  have  successors,  proves  the 
increase  of  want. 

22nd. 

There  was  an  odd  interlude  yesterday  in  the  House  of 
Commons.  Some  of  the  Opposition  proposed  to  thank 
the  late  Speaker,  Sir  Fletcher.  Lord  North  had  promised 
not  to  gainsay  it.  Neither  side  could  admire  such  a 
worthless  fellow  :  those  he  has  left,  less  than  those  that 
have  adopted  him  ;  and  yet  the  vote  of  thanks  passed 
by  a  majority  of  40  : — and  so  one  may  be  thanked  for 
being  a  rogue  on  all  sides  !  *  If  thanks  grow  cheaper, 
they  will  at  least  be  more  striking  when  bestowed 
on  the  worthy  ;  for  every  one  will  say,  "  Such  an  one 
does  deserve  praise." 

It  looks  a  little  as  if  we  should  quarrel  downright 
with  the  Dutch.  I  do  not  wonder  that  we  mind  so 
little  an  enemy  more  or  less ;  for,  numerous  as  our  foes 
are,  they  certainly  are  very  awkward.  We  hurt  our- 
selves a  thousand  times  more  than  they  do.  We  have 
done  nothing  that  signifies  a  straw  ;  but  they  have 
done  less. 

*  The  motion  was  proposed  by  Mr.  Thomas  Townshend,  and  support- 
ed generally  by  the  Opposition,  but  warmly  resisted  on  the  Court  side, 
although  the  Ministers  themselves  took  no  direct  part.  It  was,  however, 
carried  on  a  division,  by  a  majority  of  136  to  96. — En. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  T 


274        THE  HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCCXL. 

Berkeley  Square,  Dec.  12,  1780. 

Your  Florence,  no  doubt,  is  much  occupied  by 
the  death  of  the  Empress-Queen.*  It  turns  all  eyes 
on  the  Emperor,  and  sets  thousands  of  tongues  to 
work,  the  owners  of  every  one  of  which  will  expect 
to  pass  for  a  prophet,  if  Caesar  within  these  two  years 
takes  one  step  which  is  at  all  like  twenty,  any  one 
of  which  it  is  probable  he  may  take.  I  was  with  you 
just  forty  years  ago,  when  the  departed  Empress  came 
to  the  crown.f  What  a  tide  of  events  that  era  occa- 
sioned !  You  and  I  shall  not  see  much  of  what  this 
may  produce  !  and  therefore  I  will  not  guess  at  a 
history  that  is  in  its  cradle  for  me,  and  that  I  shall 
not  be  acquainted  with  when  it  is  come  to  years  of 
discretion.  I  wish  our  own  wars  were  come  to  that 
pass ! 

*  Maria- Theresa,  Empress  of  Germany,  Queen  of  Hungary  and  Bo- 
hemia, and  hereditary  Archduchess  of  Austria.  This  great  Princess, 
mother  of  the  Grand-Duke  of  Tuscany,  died  at  Vienna  on  the  29th  of 
November,  in  her  sixty-third  year. — Ed. 

t  In  a  letter  dated  Florence,  July  9,  1740,  Walpole  thus  wrote  to 
his  friend  Conway:  "  I  am  happy  here  to  a  degree.  I  '11  tell  you  my  si- 
tuation ;  I  am  lodged  with  Mr.  Mann,  the  hest  of  creatures.  I  have  a 
tcrrcno  all  to  myself,  with  an  open  gallery,  on  the  Arno,  where  I  am  now 
writing  to  you.  Over  against  me  is  the  famous  Gallery ;  and  on  either 
hand  two  fair  bridges.  Is  not  this  charming  and  cool  ?  The  air  is  so 
serene,  and  so  secure,  that  one  sleeps  with  all  the  windows  and  doors 
thrown  open  to  the  river,  and  only  covered  with  a  light  gauze  to  keep 
away  the  gnats.  The  people  are  good-humoured  here,  and  easy  ;  and, 
what  makes  me  pleased  with  them,  they  are  pleased  with  me.  One  loves 
to  find  people  care  for  one,  when  they  can  have  no  view  in  it." — Collective 
Edition,  vol.  i.  p.50. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  275 

The  new  Parliament,  which  is  now  gone  to  keep 
its  Christmas,  has  been  but  little  ruffled  ;  nay,  as  if 
there  were  no  new  matter,  they  are  to  tap  again,  after 
the  holidays,  the  whole  story  of  Keppel  and  Palliser. 
Indeed,  at  this  instant,  the  town  expect  news  of  an 
engagement  between  Darby  and  D'Estaing ;  though 
I  think  there  are  more  reasons  for  not  thinking  it 
probable  :  however,  I  have  still  less  skill  in  naval 
matters  than  even  in  others. 

Our  old  acquaintance,  Lord  Pomfret,  has  taken  his 
chastisement  very  patiently,  which  looks  less  mad  than 
he  was  thought."'5" 

This  is  the  sum  of  my  present  knowledge  :  and  thus 
a  most  turbulent  year  has  the  appearance  of  conclud- 
ing drowsily  enough ;  and,  for  fleets  and  armies,  their 
exploits  on  both  sides  would  lie  in  a  nutshell.  An 
historian  may  be  sorry,  but  a  man  of  feeling  must 
rejoice  that  such  scourges  as  armaments  may  do  such 
little  mischief  to  the  human  race.  Fame  cannot  be 
acquired  but  by  the  groans  of  hospitals  full  of  suf- 
ferers !  The  last  act  of  the  Empress- Queen,  the  stem- 
ming the  torrent  of  blood  between  her  son  and  the 
King  of  Prussia,  is  in  my  eyes  the  brightest  in  her 
annals. 

*  Lord  Pomfret  was  reprimanded  at  the  bar  of  the  House  of  Lords  by 
the  Lord  Chancellor.  On  being  taken  from  it  and  admitted  to  his 
seat,  he  engaged  upon  his  honour  not  to  pursue  further  any  measure  of 
violence  against  the  person  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton. — Ed. 


T     Z 


27G  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCCXLI. 

Berkeley  Square,  Dec.  21,  1780. 

I  am  sorry  that  my  letters  of  late  years  contain 
so  many  eras ;  this  dates  a  new  one,  of  an  additional 
war  with  Holland.  The  Manifesto  of  our  Court  ap- 
peared in  the  Gazette  Extraordinary  this  morning.  I 
am  no  prophesying  politician,  you  know  ;  and  if  I 
were,  as  I  am  too  old  to  be  a  sanguine  one,  I  should 
not  disperse  my  Sibylline  leaves  about  Europe. 

Another  fact,  that  must  speak  for  itself,  is,  that 
Admiral  Darby  has  brought  his  fleet  home,  as  D'Estaing 
has  led  the  French  and  Spanish  squadrons  and  the 
trade  to  Brest.  Pray  desire  the  Emperor  to  leave 
Ostend  open,  or  I  shall  not  be  able  to  write  to  you 
at  all.  It  is  not  very  pleasant  at  present ;  for,  with 
so  many  intervening  enemies  and  interlopers,  one  can 
converse  with  no  more  frankness  than  in  a  congress 
of  Ambassadors.  I  write  as  much  as  I  can  for  your 
satisfaction,  but  no  Continental  post-office  will  ever 
learn  from  me  a  tittle  they  did  not  know  before.  You 
may  suffer  by  it,  but  I  am  sure  approve  me.  Do  not 
imagine  there  is  either  tcedium  or  air  in  this.  I  do 
know  nothing  before  it  has  happened  :  it  is  merely 
my  own  comment  that  I  suppress,  as  I  love  my  coun- 
try too  well  to  treat  foreigners  with  anything  I  am 
sorry  for. 

Having  thus  said  my  say,  I  have  nothing  of  the 
least  consequence  to  add.     The  town  is,  and  will  be 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  277 

empty  till  the  Parliament  meets ;  and  then  people  will 
return,  because  it  is  the  fashion  to  go  to  Newmarket : 
for,  in  countries  that  are  or  have  been  great,  the  chief 
philosophers  are  such  as  have  no  philosophy,  and  who 
consign  over  to  the  inferior  classes  the  sense  of  public 
calamities.  In  fact,  the  world  is  grown  more  intrepid 
than  in  ancient  days.  Our  progenitors  braved  ene- 
mies ;  we  moderns  defy  elements,  and  do  not,  like  the 
effeminate  Greeks  and  Romans,  go  into  winter  quarters 
at  the  back  of  the  almanack ;  and  thence  winds, 
waves,  and  climates  gain  the  most  considerable  vic- 
tories. There  has  been  a  hurricane  at  St.  Kitt's,  that, 
according  to  the  etiquette  of  destruction,  deserves  a 
triumphal  arch, — perhaps  opima  spolia,  for  nothing- 
has  yet  been  heard  of  Admiral  Rowley !*  Oh!  but 
I  cannot  sport,  when  humanity  aches  in  every  nerve  ! 
and  when  the  seals  of  a  new  book  are  opened,  like 
those  in  the  Revelations !  I  detest  war,  nor  can  per- 
ceive that  anybody  has  cause  to  exult  in  it.     Adieu ! 


LETTER  CCCXLII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Dec.  31,  1780. 

I  have  received,  and  thank  you  much  for  the 

*  During  this  dreadful  hurricane,  the  squadron  under  the  command  of 
Admiral  Rowley  returned  to  Jamaica,  mostly  dismasted,  and  all  dis- 
abled. The  Stirling  Castle  was  lost  on  the  coast  of  Hispaniola,  and 
only  fifty  of  the  crew  saved  ;  and  the  Thunderer,  under  the  conduct  of 
Commodore  the  Honourable  Boyle  Walsingham,  son  of  the  Earl  of 
Shannon,  was  so  completely  swallowed  up  by  this  conflict  of  the  elements, 
that  no  memorial  or  particulars  of  her  catastrophe  ever  came  to  light.— 
Ed. 


278  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

curious  history*  of  the  Count  and  Countess  of  Albany; 
what  a  wretched  conclusion  of  a  wretched  family ! 
Surely  no  royal  race  was  ever  so  drawn  to  the  dregs ! 
The  other  Countess  f  you  mention  seems  to  approach 
still  nearer  to  dissolution.  Her  death  a  year  or  two 
ago  might  have  prevented  the  sale  of  the  pictures, — 
not  that  I  know  it  would.  Who  can  say  what  mad- 
ness in  the  hands  of  villainy  would  or  would  not  have 
done  %  Now,  I  think,  her  dying  would  only  put  more 
into  the  reach  of  rascals.  But  I  am  indifferent  what 
they  do  ;  nor,  but  thus  occasionally,  shall  I  throw 
away  a  thought  on  that  chapter. 

All  chance  of  accommodation  with  Holland  is  va- 
nished. Count  Welderen  and  his  wife  departed  this 
morning.  All  they  who  are  to  gain  by  privateers  and 
captures  are  delighted  with  a  new  field  of  plunder. 
Piracy  is  more  practicable  than  victory.  Not  being 
an  admirer  of  wars,  I  shall  reserve  my  feux  de  joie  for 
peace. 

My  letters,  I  think,  are  rather  eras  than  journals. 
Three  days  ago  commenced  another  date — the  esta- 

*  The  Pretender's  wife  complaining  to  the  Great-Duke  of  her  hus- 
band's beastly  behaviour  to  her,  that  Prince  contrived  her  escape  into  a 
convent,  and  thence  sent  her  to  Rome,  where  she  was  protected  by  the 
Cardinal  of  York,  her  husband's  brother.  [After  the  death  of  the  Pre- 
tender in  1788,  the  Countess  of  Albany  travelled  in  Italy  and  France, 
and  lived  with  the  celebrated  Alfieri,  to  whom  she  was  said  to  have  been 
privately  married.  On  the  breaking  out  of  the  French  Revolution,  she 
took  refuge  in  England.  For  Walpole's  account  of  his  interview  with, 
and  description  of,  her  in  1791,  see  Collective  Edition,  vol.  vi.  p.  436. — 
Ed.] 

f  The  Countess  of  Orford.  [The  Countess  died  in  the  following 
month  at  Pisa. — Ed.] 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  279 

blishment  of  a  family  for  the  Prince  of  Wales.     I  do 
not  know  all  the  names,  and  fewer  of  the  faces  that 
compose  it ;  nor  intend.     I,  who  kissed  the  hand  of 
George  L,  have  no  colt's  tooth  for  the  Court  of  George 
IV.     Nothing  is  so  ridiculous  as  an  antique  face  in  a 
juvenile  drawing-room.     I  believe  that  they  who  have 
spirits  enough  to  be  absurd  in  their  decrepitude,  are 
happy,  for  they  certainly  are  not  sensible    of  their 
folly  ;  but  I,  who  have  never  forgotten  what  I  thought 
in  my  youth  of  such  superannuated  idiots,  dread  no- 
thing more  than  misplacing  myself  in  my  old  age.     In 
truth,   I  feel  no  such   appetite ;    and,   excepting  the 
young  of  my  own  family,  about  whom  I  am  interested, 
I  have  mighty  small  satisfaction  in  the  company  of 
posterity;  for  so  the  present  generation  seem  to  me. 
I  would   contribute   anything  to  their  pleasure,  but 
what  cannot  contribute  to  it — my  own  presence.     Alas  ! 
how  many  of  this  age  are  swept  away  before  me  :  six 
thousand  have  been  mowed  down  at  once  by  the  late 
hurricane  at  Barbadoes  alone  !     How  Europe  is  paying 
the  debts  it  owes   to   America !     Were  I  a  poet,   I 
would  paint  hosts  of  Mexicans  and  Peruvians  crowd- 
ing the  shores  of  Styx,  and  insulting  the  multitudes 
of  the  usurpers    of  their  continent   that   have   been 
sending  themselves  thither  for  these  five  or  six  years. 
The  poor  Africans,  too,  have  no  call  to  be  merciful  to 
European  ghosts.     Those  miserable  slaves  have  just  now 
seen  whole  crews  of  men-of-war  swallowed  by  the  late 
hurricane.     We  do  not  yet  know  the  extent  of  our 
loss.     You  would  think  it  very  slight,  if  you  saw  how 


280  THE  HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

little  impression  it  makes  on  a  luxurious  capital.  An 
overgrown  metropolis  has  less  sensibility  than  marble  ; 
nor  can  it  be  conceived  by  those  not  conversant  in 
one.  I  remember  hearing  what  diverted  me  then  :  a 
young  gentlewoman,  a  native  of  our  rock,  St.  Helena, 
and  who  had  never  stirred  beyond  it,  being  struck 
with  the  emotion  occasioned  there  by  the  arrival  of 
one  or  two  of  our  China  ships,  said  to  the  captain, 
"  There  must  be  a  great  solitude  in  London  as  often 
as  the  China  ships  come  away!"  Her  imagination 
could  not  have  compassed  the  idea,  if  she  had  been 
told  that  six  years  of  war,  the  absence  of  an  army 
of  fifty  or  sixty  thousand  men  and  of  all  our  squadrons, 
and  a  new  debt  of  many,  many  millions,  would  not 
make  an  alteration  in  the  receipt  at  the  door  of  a 
single  theatre  in  London.  I  do  not  boast  of,  or  ap- 
plaud, this  profligate  apathy.  When  pleasure  is  our 
business,  our  business  is  never  our  pleasure  ;  and,  if 
four  wars  cannot  awaken  us,  we  shall  die  in  a  dream ! 


LETTER  CCCXLIII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Jan.  9,  1781. 

This  can  be  but  a  short  letter,  for  I  have  scarcely 
time  to  write  it ;  but  as  to-day's  papers  would  alarm 
you,  and  cannot  carry  the  relief  which  arrived  since 
they  were  printed,  I  cannot  leave  you  for  a  moment 
under  anxiety — I  may  say,  for  me,  as  I  am  so  much 
concerned.     In  short,  advice  came  by  daybreak  yes- 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  281 

tcrday,  that  two  thousand  French  (magnified  to  above 
four  thousand)  had  landed  on  Saturday  last  in  Jersey, 
had  seized  the  lieutenant-governor  in  his  bed,  and 
were  masters  of  the  island.  Orders  were  sent  to 
Portsmouth  to  send  what  force  could  be  had,  and  an 
express  to  General  Conway  to  bid  him  repair  thither.  '::" 
He  came  to  town  on  wings  of  winds,  and  never  pulled 
them  off,  and  in  two  hours  was  on  the  road  to  Ports- 
mouth. I  did  not  see  him,  for  he  never  wastes  an 
instant  on  such  occasions.  Judge  of  my  anxiety !  It 
was  for  more  than  his  broken  arm.  Well,  at  noon 
to-day  we  heard  that  the  troops  had  rallied,  attacked 
the  French,  gained  a  complete  victory,  pushed  four 
hundred  into  the  sea,  and  taken  twelve  hundred. 
These  are  the  troops  that  Mr.  Conway  himself  formed 
last  year.  To  me  this  battle  is  worth  the  day  at 
Blenheim. 

*  Of  this  second  attempt  of  the  French  upon  the  island  of  Jersey,  the 
Baron  de  Rullecourt,  who  had  heen  next  in  command  to  Count  Nassau  in 
the  former  attack  upon  the  island,  was  the  undertaker,  and  supposed  to 
be  the  framer.  He  landed  his  troops  in  the  night  at  a  place  called  the 
Violet  Bank,  about  three  miles  from  St.  Helier  ;  and  so  shamefully 
remiss  were  the  militia  in  their  duty,  that  they  were  seized  asleep  by  the 
enemy,  who  were  thus  for  several  hours  upon  the  island  without  the 
smallest  alarm  being  given.  The  British  troops  stationed  in  the  island 
having  assembled  from  all  quarters,  under  the  command  of  Major  Pierson, 
being  required  by  the  French  commander  to  submit,  an  attack  was  in- 
stantly made  with  such  impetuosity,  that  the  enemy  Avere  routed  on  all 
sides,  the  Baron  mortally  wounded,  and  the  next  in  command  obliged 
to  surrender  himself  and  the  whole  party,  amounting  to  about  eight 
hundred,  prisoners  of  war.  To  Major  Pierson,  who  was  shot  through 
the  heart,  in  the  moment  of  victory,  a  monument  was  erected  at  the 
public  expense. — E». 


282  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

LETTER  CCCXLIV. 

Berkeley  Square,  Jan.  18,  1781. 

I  have  received  your  second  letter  about  the 
Countess  of  Albany,  and  her  retreat  to  Rome — or  ra- 
ther her  imprisonment  there.  Are  they  Jews  enough, 
if  the  Count  should  die,  to  uncanonize  the  Cardinal 
and  make  him  raise  up  issue  to  his  brother,  which 
the  brother  could  not  do  for  himself  ? 

I  told  you  last  week  of  the  loss  and  recovery  of 
Jersey.  General  Conway,  without  losing  a  second,  em- 
barked at  Portsmouth  in  the  heat  of  such  a  storm 
that  a  transport  with  sixty  men  was  lost  as  he  sailed, 
and  the  cutter  that  preceded,  to  notify  his  coining, 
has  not  been  heard  of  since !  He  was  tempested 
about  for  two  whole  days  and  nights,  in  such  danger 
that  the  captain  of  the  frigate  despaired.  Though 
it  was  a  disappointment  and  vexation,  for  they  knew 
nothing  of  the  safety  of  the  island,  it  was  fortunate 
that  they  could  not  get  out  of  the  channel,  or  they 
had  probably  been  lost !  With  great  difficulty  they 
got  into  Plymouth,  where  they  learnt  the  good  news 
from  the  French  themselves,  who  had  been  made  pri- 
soners in  Jersey.  Mr.  Conway  arrived  at  Park-place 
on  Sunday  last,  but  was  forced  to  take  to  his  bed, 
where  he  remained  till  yesterday,  when  he  rose  for  a 
few  hours.  He  had  caught  a  cold,  rheumatism  all 
over,  and  a  fever  :  what  was  worse,  and  perhaps  the 
cause  of  his  fever,  a  good-natured  sailor,  seeing  him 
awkward  at  getting  up  the  ladder  into  the  frigate, 
and  not  knowing,  or  not  considering,  that  he  had  a 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  283 

broken  arm,  gave  it  such  a  kind  tug  that  he  almost 
broke  it  again !  In  that  pain  of  body  and  mind  he 
retained  all  his  patience  and  tranquillity,  and  astonish- 
ed even  his  own  nephew  Colonel  Conway,*  who  knows 
him,  and  who  repeated  it  to  me  with  as  much  admi- 
ration as  if  he  had  never  seen  him  before.  I  flatter 
myself  that  he  will  be  able  to  come  to  town  on  Monday. 
This  is  a  most  interesting  chapter  to  me,  and  as 
such  I  perhaps  have  dwelt  on  it  too  long.  But  it 
intercepts  nothing  else.  Not  an  event  has  happened, 
nor  an  account  arrived  of  any,  since  I  wrote  last  week. 
Tuesday  the  Parliamentary  campaign  will  open  again. 
I  know  full  as  little  of  what  are  to  be  its  objects.  Sir 
Joseph  Yorke  not  being  returned,  makes  the  conjec- 
turers  imagine  the  reconciliation  with  Holland  is 
not  desperate.  They  say,  too,  that  the  Dutch  have 
not  yet  issued  letters  of  marque  ;  but  on  those  matters 
I  talk  quite  in  the  dark,  and  with  the  vulgar.  I  hold 
to  the  world  but  by  few  threads  ;  and,  when  an  old  man 
takes  no  pains  to  keep  up  the  connection,  the  world 
is  not  at  all  solicitous  to  preserve  it.  Your  nephew,  I 
conclude,  will  soon  be  in  town,  and  will  be  more 
copious  than  I  am.  It  is  not  that  I  have  less  incli- 
nation than  ever  to  be  your  journalist,  but  I  now  live 
in  so  confined  a  circle,  that  common  occurrences  rarely 
arrive  to  me  till  they  have  been  in  all  the  newspapers 
■ — and,  to  give  those  historians  their  due,  nothing  comes 
amiss  to  them  ;  and,  lest  they  should  defraud  their  cus- 
tomers, they  keep  open  shop  for  everything,  true  or 

*  Robert,  third  son  of  Francis  Earl  of  Hertford. 


284  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

false,  or  scandalous,  or  ever  so  private,  or  ever  so  little 
relative  to  the  public.  Ancient  annalists  thought 
nobody  game  below  a  monarch,  or  a  general,  or  a 
high-priest.  Modern  intelligencers  have  no  mercy 
on  posterity  ;  and,  not  considering  how  enormous  the 
lack  of  events  is  grown,  contribute  all  in  their  power 
to  store  the  world  with  the  history  of  everybody  in  it. 
In  truth,  this  duty  has  become  so  extensive,  that  it  has 
totally  given  exclusion  here  to  all  the  rest  of  the  earth 
where  we  are  not  concerned.  We  know  no  more  of 
what  passes  in  Europe  than  in  Africa.  To  make  amends, 
America  and  Asia  are  fully  discussed.  At  this  mo- 
ment, I  might,  if  I  pleased,  be  perfectly  acquainted 
with  the  king  of  Tanjore  and  all  his  affairs  ;  not  quite 
upon  his  own  account,  but  because  there  is  a  contest 
at  the  India  House  about  one  Mr.  Benfield  ;  who,  by 
the  way,  is  believed  to  be  agent  for  the  nabob  of 
Arcot,  and  to  have  retained  nine  members  of  Parlia- 
ment in  the  interest  of  that  petty  sovereign* — scandal, 

*  Paul  Benfield,  the  agent  of  the  Nabob  of  Arcot,  had  made  a  claim  of 
250,000/.  on  the  East  India  Company,  being  the  alleged  proceeds  of  a 
crop  on  the  lands  of  Tanjore,  sown  by  the  Nabob  and  mortgaged  to  Ben- 
field. The  claim  was  considered  to  be  fraudulent,  from  the  improbability 
that  a  private  person,  of  little  or  no  property,  should  have  been  able  to  ad- 
vance so  large  a  sum.  Mr.  Burke,  in  his  celebrated  speech  on  the  Nabob's 
debts,  in  1785,  describes  Benfield  as  "  the  old  betrayer,  insultcr,  oppressor, 
and  scourge  of  India — the  grand  parliamentary  reformer,  the  reformer  to 
whom  the  whole  choir  of  reformers  bow  ;  and  who,  amidst  his  charita- 
ble toils  for  the  relief  of  India,  did  not  forget  the  poor,  rotten  constitution 
of  his  native  country  :  for  he  did  not  disdain  to  stoop  to  the  trade  of  a 
wholesale  upholsterer  for  this  House,  to  furnish  it,  not  with  the  faded 
tapestry  figures  of  antiquated  merit,  such  as  decorate,  and  may  reproach, 
some  other  houses,  but  with  real,  solid,  living  patterns  of  true,  modern 
virtue."  u  Paul,"  he  adds," made  (reckoning  himself)  no  fewer  than  eight 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  285 

to  be  sure !  And  perhaps  you  think  I  am  talking  to 
you  out  of  the  Mogul  Tales;  but  I  have  long  told  you 
that  you  have — can  have — no  idea  of  your  own  county. 
Well :  look  into  the  Roman  History  just  before  the 
fall  of  the  Republic  ;  you  will  find  orations  for  King  De- 
iotarus,  and  of  proconsuls  pensioned  by  tributary  sove- 
reigns. In  short,  you  will  see  how  splendid  and  vile 
the  ruins  were  of  a  great  empire  ! 

Feb.  2nd. 

It  is  said  that  more  than  one  surly  rescript  has  been 
received  from  Russia,  with  whom  we  look  to  have  war. 
The  Parliament  is  most  courtly  :  yesterday,  indeed, 
there  were  an  hundred  and  forty -nine  for  a  censure  on 
the  preferment  of  Sir  Hugh  Palliser  to  Greenwich 
Hospital,  but  above  two  hundred  admired  the  choice."* 

On  Monday  is  to  begin  the  trial  of  Lord  George  Gor- 
don, which  will  at  least  occupy  everybody  for  some  days. 
I  should  be  inclined  to  leave  that  subject  to  your  ne- 
phew, but  I  do  not  know  whether  he  is  in  town  ;  at 
least  I  have  not  seen  him,  nor  heard  his  name  this 
winter. 

The  East  Indian  fleet,  of  vast  value,  is  safe  arrived 
in  Ireland.     Sir  Thomas  Rumbold  is  on  board  it,  and 

members  in  the  last  Parliament  :  what  copious  streams  of  pure  blood 
must  lie  not  have  transfused  into  the  veins  of  the  present !  " — Ed. 

*  The  motion,  which  was  made  by  Mr.  Fox,  was  for  a  censure  on  the 
appointment  of  Sir  Hugh  Palliser  to  the  government  of  Greenwich  Hos- 
pital. Sir  Hugh,  who  had  just  taken  his  seat  for  Huntingdon,  through 
the  interest  of  the  Earl  of  Sandwich,  defended  himself  at  considerable 
length.  The  numbers  on  the  division  were  149  for,  and  214  against  the 
motion. — Ed. 


286  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

his  value  is  estimated  at  a  million. *  I  do  not  wonder 
that  a  nabob  can  afford  to  buy  a  gang  of  members  of 
Parliament. 


LETTER  CCCXLV. 

Berkeley  Square,  Feb.  6,  1781. 

Last  night,  when  I  came  home,  I  found  your  two 
letters  of  January  13th  and  16th  ;  the  one  to  prepare 
me  for,  and  the  second  to  announce,  Lady  Orford's 
death.  It  has  been  reported  here  for  a  fortnight  that 
she  was  dead  :  so,  perhaps,  somebody  sent  a  courier  to 
her  son,  or  to  Sharpe  her  lawyer ;  or,  more  probably, 
her  heir  might  send  one  to  Hoare.  I  have  nothing 
to  do  with  all  that ;  but  I  have  this  minute  written 
to  her  son,  and  sent  him  the  individual  copy  of  her 
will  that  I  have  received  from  you,  and  the  few  par- 
ticulars you  have  told  me.f 

My  first  reflection  naturally  is,  that,  had  my  lord 
had  patience  but  for  a  year,  he  would  have  had  no  oc- 
casion to  sell  his  pictures  ;  supposing  which,  I  do  not 
think  that,  without  his  mother's  death,  he  would  have 
had  that  occasion.  My  own  opinion  is,  that  the 
wretches  round  him  precipitated  the  sale,  as  money  is 
more  purloinable  than  a  palace  of  pictures. 

By  the  will  it  seems  her  ladyship  claims  no  power 

*  In  1779,  Sir  Thomas  Rumbold  had  been  appointed  Governor  of 
Madras,  and  created  a  baronet. — En. 

+  Walpole,  in  a  letter  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Cole,  of  the  7th,  says,  "  She  has 
left  everything  in  her  power  to  her  friend  Cavalier  Mozzi,  at  Florence, 
but  her  son  comes  into  her  large  estate,  besides  her  great  jointure."  See 
Collective  Edition,  vol.  i.  p.  170,  and  vol.  vi.  p.  110. Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  287 

over  her  landed  estates  in  England,  though  I  have 
heard  that  she  pretended  to  have  a  right  to  dispose  of 
part  :  but  all  that  is  nothing  to  me. 

I  have  no  public  news  to  add  but  what  I  scarce  know 
yet,  the  trial  of  Lord  George  Gordon.  It  was  yester- 
day, and  they  say  he  was  acquitted  at  five  this  morning  ;* 
but  this  I  have  learnt  only  from  my  servants,  for  I 
have  been  writing  to  notify  my  Lady  Orford's  death 
to  my  relations  that  they  may  mourn,  and  bespeaking 
mourning,  and  doing  such  necessary  things  ;  and  have 
seen  nobody  yet,  and,  in  fact,  did  not  care  a  straw 
about  my  Lord  George  any  more  than,  when  any  living 
creature  is  trying  for  his  life,  I  feel  at  the  moment, 
and  wish  him  to  escape. 


LETTER  CCCXLVI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Sunday  night,  Feb.  11,  1781. 

On  Friday  evening  I  received  the  probate  of  Lady 
O.'s  will,  and  your  two  letters,  in  one  of  which  you  men- 
tion the  doubts  of  the  Florentine  lawyers  on  the  va- 
lidity of  the  disposition.  I  was  very  sorry  to  hear  of 
these  doubts,  and  shall  consider  well — nay,  consult  the 
most  conscientious  persons  I  can, — before  I  acquaint 

*  Lord  George  Gordon  was  tried  at  the  bar  of  the  Court  of  King's 
Bench  before  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield,  and  Justices  Waller, 
Ashurst,  and  Buller.  His  counsel  were  Mr.  Kenyon  and  Mr.  Erskine. 
At  a  quarter  after  five  in  the  morning  the  jury  returned  a  verdict  of 
Not  Guilty.  Hannah  More  says,  in  a  letter  to  her  sister,  "  Public  thanks- 
givings were  returned  last  Sunday  in  several  churches  for  his  acquittal.  I 
know  some  who  actually  heard  it  in  Audley  Chapel." — Ed. 


288  THE  HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

my  lord  with  them.     I  do  not  like   questioning  of 
wills  where  the  intention  of  the  testator  is  evident ; 
nor  are  there  many  cases  in  which  I  should  approve  of 
it,  except  on  strong  suspicions  of  foul  practices,  or 
notorious  incapacity  of  the  deceased.     Though  I  could 
have  no  esteem  for  Lady  Orford,  I  shall  be  extremely 
averse  from  being  even  an  indirect  instrument  of  dis- 
puting her  will ;  and,  should  I  be  advised  in  duty  to 
inform  my  lord  of  the  cavil,  I  shall,  I  think,  desire 
you  to  convey  the  notice  to  him  through  some  other 
channel.     Nothing  but  my  becoming  persuaded  that 
I  ought  to  acquaint  him  with  the  doubts  on  the  va- 
lidity, shall  make  me  contribute  to  his  knowing  them. 
I  shall  consult  General  Conway,  who  is  conscience  it- 
self ;  and  Lord  Camden,  who,  though  a  lawyer,  has  left 
off  business,  and  who,   I  trust,  is    too   old  to   think 
merely  as  a  lawyer,  unless  as  one  who  has  presided 
in  a  court  of  equity.     Lord  Orford  may  act  by  me  as 
he  pleases,  or,  poor  man !  as  his  creatures  please.     I 
will  neither  pay  court  to  him,  for  he  has  used  me  with 
extravagant   ingratitude  ;    nor  ever  do   but  what   is 
strictly  right  about  him,  as  I  have  always  done,  with 
a  degree  of  delicacy  that  worldly  prudence  would  con- 
demn, and  which  certainly  has  been  very  prejudicial 
to  my  family.     But  I  cannot  lament  what  I  did  from 
principle  and  tenderness ;  nor  can  I  vindicate  myself 
to  the  world  so  fully  as  I  might,  while  he  has  such  a 
measure  of  sense  as  would  be  wounded  if  I  talked  too 
openly  of  his  madness.     It  is  plain  that  he,  who,  with  no 
semblance  of  a  quarrel  to  me,  can  treat  me  in  so  inju- 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  289 

rious  a  manner,  after  such  tried  services  and  repeated 
obligations,  must  have  had  the  most  abominable  lies 
told  him  of  me.  I  will  indubitably  take  the  first  oc- 
casion that  shall  present  itself  of  making  my  whole 
conduct  towards  him  known,  and  that  of  his  creatures. 
I  care  not  a  rush  about  his  fortune,  but  I  will  not 
part  with  my  character,  which  I  prefer  to  all  he  has  ; 
and  had  much  rather  lose  the  former,  were  it  likely 
to  come  to  me,  than  the  latter. 

I  know  no  news — in  fact  I  have  been  entirely  taken 
up  with  this  affair.  The  accession  of  fortune  to  my 
lord  makes  not  the  slightest  change  in  my  resolutions, 
it  rather  strengthens  them;  for  I  should  despise  my- 
self if  his  additional  wealth  could  make  me  stoop  to 
flatter  a  madman. 

P.S.  Poor  Lady  Dick""  is  dead,  and  Mrs.  Pitt  ;  the 
latter  in  a  madhouse. 


LETTER  CCCXLVII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Feb.  26,  1781. 

I  shall  not  weary  you  again  with  saying  any  more 
about  my  nephew.  I  have  done  with  him !  An 
aiFair  is  going  to  take  place  that  is  not  unconnected 
with  him,  and  that  gives  me  some  satisfaction.  Lord 
Walpole's  eldest  son,  who  at  present  stands  in  the 
light  of  heir-apparent  to  both  branches  of  the  family, 
and  whom  Lord  0.  is  at  least  bound  to  my  late  uncle 

*  Wife  of  Sir  John  Dick,  formerly  consul  at  Leghorn. 
VOL.  III. NEW    SERIES.  U 


290  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

to  make  his  heir  in  succession,  is  going  to  marry  one 
of  my  numerous  nieces,  Lady  Mary  Churchill's  younger 
daughter.  *  It  is  a  match  of  love  ;  she  is  a  very  fine 
girl,  but  without  a  shilling.  Lord  "Walpole  dislikes 
the  match  much,  entirely  on  that  last  defect :  but  the 
son  is  a  most  honourable  young  man  ;  and  the  father, 
who  is  good-natured,  has  at  last  given  his  consent. 
Thus,  if  Lord  O.'s  madness  and  the  villainy  of  his 
counsellors  (and,  I  must  add,  his  own  want  of  prin- 
ciple) does  not  reverse  what  he  promised,  all  the 
descendants  of  my  father,  the  author  of  the  greatness 
of  the  whole  family,  will  not  be  deprived  of  his  for- 
tune. My  sister  Malpas's  posterity,  to  whom  it  ought 
first  to  descend  after  my  brother  and  me,  will  be  de- 
frauded ;  but,  plundered  as  Houghton  is,  the  possessors 
will  still  look  up  to  the  memory  of  its  illustrious 
founder.  But  how  weak  are  these  visions  about  an- 
cestors and  descendants !  and  how  extraordinarily 
weak  am  I  to  harbour  them,  when  I  see  that  a  mad- 
man, a  housemaid,  and  an  attorney  can  baffle  all  the 
views  Sir  Robert  himself  had  entertained  !  Could  he 
foresee  that  his  grandson  would  sell  his  collection  of 
pictures  ;  or  that  his  grand-daughter  would  marry  the 
King's  brother  \ — Yet,  if  one  excluded  visions  and  at- 
tended only  to  the  philosophy  of  reflection, — if  one 
always  recollected  how  transitory  are  all  the  glories 
in  the  imagination, — how  insipid,  how  listless  would 
life  be  !     Are  fame  or  science  more  real  \    Would  we 

*  The  marriage  of  the  Honourable  Horatio  Walpole  with  Sophia,  the 
daughter  of  Lady  Mary  Churchill,  took  place  in  July. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  ±91 

know  what  is  passed,  on  the  truth  of  what  history  can 
we  depend  %  Would  we  step  without  the  palpable 
world,  what  do  we  learn  but  by  guess,  or  by  that  most 
barren  of  all  responses,  calculation  \  Is  anything  more 
lean  than  the  knowledge  we  attain  by  computing  the 
distance  or  magnitude  of  a  planet  1  If  we  could 
know  more  of  a  world  than  its  size,  would  not  its 
size  be  the  least  part  of  our  contemplation  %  All  I 
mean  is,  that  it  matters  not  with  what  visions,  pro- 
vided they  are  harmless,  we  amuse  ourselves ;  and 
that,  so  far  from  combating,  I  often  love  to  entertain 
them.  When  one  has  outlived  one's  passions  and  pur- 
suits, one  should  become  inactive  or  morose  if  one's 
second  childhood  had  not  its  rattles  and  fables  like 
the  first. 

I  am  the  more  willing  to  play  with  local  and  do- 
mestic baby-houses,  as  the  greater  scene  is  still  more 
comfortless ;  though  what  is  one's  country  but  one's 
family  on  a  larger  scale  %  What  was  the  glory  of  im- 
mortal Rome,  but  the  family  pride  of  some  thousand 
families  %  All  sublunary  objects  are  but  great  and  little 
by  comparison.  You  and  I  have  lived  long  enough 
to  see  Houghton  and  England  emerge,  the  one  from 
a  country  gentleman's  house  to  a  palace,  the  other 
from  an  island  to  an  empire  ;  and  to  behold  both 
stripped  of  their  acquisitions,  and  lamentable  in  their 
ruins.  I  will  push  the  comparison  between  large  and 
petty  objects  no  farther,  though  both  have  compounded 
the  present  colour  of  my  mind.  I  came  hither  yes- 
terday, but  left  nothing  new  in  town.     The  follies  of 

u  2 


292  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

a  great  capital  are  only  new  in  the  persons  of  their 
favourites.  The  fanatic  Lord  George  Gordon  was  the 
reigning  hero  a  fortnight  ago  :  the  French  dancers, 
Vestris  and  his  son,  have  dethroned  him,  and  are 
the  reigning  bubbles  in  the  air  at  this  moment.  On 
Thursday  was  sevennight  there  was  an  opera  for  the 
sufferers  by  the  late  dreadful  calamities  at  Barbadoes 
and  Jamaica ;  the  theatre  was  not  half  full.  Last 
Thursday  was  the  benefit  of  Yestris  and  son  ;  the 
house  could  not  receive  or  contain  the  multitudes  that 
presented  themselves.  Their  oblations  amounted  to 
fourteen  hundred  pounds. 

You  talk  of  Dutch  prizes  :  a  late  storm  has  paid 
them  in  a  moment,  and  thrown  into  their  arms, 
at  least  driven  and  wrecked  on  their  coast,  one  of 
our  newly  arrived  Indiamen,  worth  two  hundred 
thousand  pounds.  We  consoled  ourselves  with  the 
revolt  of  a  large  body  of  Washington's  troops  ;  but, 
when  Sir  Henry  Clinton  invited  them  to  his  standard, 
they  impolitely  bound  his  messengers  hand  and  foot, 
and  sent  them  to  the  Congress.'"  We  are  apt  to  sing- 
le Pcean  too  soon,  and  only  show  how  much  we  want 
good  news,  by  accepting  everything  as  such ;  though 
the  second  report  generally  proves  sinister. 

*  In  the  January  of  this  year,  on  the  occasion  above  referred  to,  though 
smarting  under  their  supposed  wrongs,  and  surrounded  by  the  dangers 
to  which  they  had  rendered  themselves  liable,  the  Insurgents  not  only 
rejected  the  favourable  offers  held  out  to  them  by  Sir  Henry  Clinton, 
but,  to  show  their  irreconcilable  enmity  to  the  mother  country,  delivered 
up  the  unhappy  men  who  had  acted  as  his  agents. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  293 


LETTER  CCCXLV11I. 


March  13,  1781. 
I  have  just  received  your  three  lines  of  Feb.  28  by 
your  courier,  and  hurry  to  reply,  lest  he  should  call  for 
my  answer  before  it  is  finished.  I  have  indeed  no- 
thing to  tell  you  that  might  not  go  through  all  the 
inquisitions  and  post-offices  in  Europe  ;  for  I  can  only 
send  you  my  own  vague  conjectures  or  opinions.  The 
guns  are  going  off  for  the  conquest  of  Eustatia  by 
Rodney,  which  is  just  arrived.*  It  may  be  a  good 
circumstance  towards  disposing  the  Dutch  to  peace  ; 
and  perhaps  to  balance  what  your  despatch  brings, 
which  is  probably  an  attempt  or  design  on  Minorca. 
We  imagine,  too,  that  the  grand  fleet  sailed  yesterday 
at  last,  which  is  to  relieve  Gibraltar,  and  annihilate 
the  combined  squadrons. 

Last  week  the  stocks  rose  six  per  cent,  in  two  days. 
It  was  given  out  that  the  Emperor  and  Empress  had 
offered  their  mediation,  and  that  all  parties  had  ac- 
cepted it,  and  that  Sir  Joseph  Yorke  was  to  depart 
on  wings  of  winds  to  Vienna  to  conclude  the  peace. 

*  In  February,  the  British  fleet  and  army,  under  the  commands  of  Sir 
George  Rodney  and  General  Vaughan,  appearing  suddenly  before  and 
surrounding  the  island  of  St.  Eustatia,  the  Dutch  governor,  ignorant  of  the 
rupture  between  England  and  Holland,  surrendered  it ;  only  recommend- 
ing the  town  and  inhabitants  to  British  clemency.  The  wealth  found  in 
the  place  excited  the  astonishment  of  the  conquerors.  The  value  of  the 
commodities  was  estimated  at  more  than  three  millions  sterling,  and  two 
hundred  and  fifty  vessels  of  all  descriptions  were  taken  in  the  bay,  be- 
sides six  frigates. — Ed. 


294  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Much  of  this  cargo  of  propitious  news  is  fallen  off,  as 
well  as  the  stocks.  Sir  Joseph  is  not  gone  ;  and  at 
most  it  is  said  that  their  Imperial  Majesties  have  made 
a  defensive  alliance,  and  that  Russia  had  civilly  told 
the  Dutch  that  she  could  do  no  more  for  them,  but 
advised  them  to  make  peace.  Now,  would  you  know 
my  own  belief?  It  is,  that,  whatever  advances  are 
made  to  us,  we  shall  profit  of  none,  but  persist  in  the 
American  war ;  at  least  in  such  a  submission  as 
may  leave  us  power  to  violate  any  treaty  and  begin 
again.  Our  foolhardiness  is  past  all  credibility  ;  the 
nation  is  besotted,  and  not  a  great  view  is  left 
above  or  below.  If  I  filled  my  paper,  I  should  but 
dilate  on  those  two  points.  For  my  part,  I  do 
assure  you,  I  cast  all  politics  out  of  my  thoughts.  I 
see  no  glimmering  of  hope  that  we  should  be  a  great 
nation  again  ;  nor  do  we  deserve  to  be.  I  wish  for 
peace  at  any  rate ;  and  I  cease  to  love  my  country, 
because  I  am  disinterested,  just  as  they  do  who  sell 
it,  because  they  are  the  reverse.  I  cannot  love  what 
deserves  no  esteem. 

Private  news  we  have  none,  but  the  silly  topics  of 
dancers  and  crowds.  Nothing  at  all  passes  in  the 
House  of  Lords,  and  not  much  in  the  other,  but  jobs. 
Their  Highnesses  of  Cumberland  have  turned  short 
from  the  King,  and  court  the  Prince  of  Wales,""'  and  the 
Opposition,  and  the  Ton,  and  the  mob.     My  friends \ 

*  His  Royal  Highness  bad,  on  the  1st  of  January,  been  declared  of 
age,  and  appeared  at  Court  in  his  new  character. — Ed. 
t   The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Gloucester. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  2.95 

sit  still,  and  sensibly  let  the  hurricane  lower  which 
way  it  will.  It  will  soon,  I  suppose,  produce  confusion 
and  new  quarrels  ;  hut  you  know  me  too  well  to 
imagine  that  I  will  embark,  even  in  speculation,  on 
chapters  to  come.  When  I  doubt  almost  all  I  hear 
in  the  present  moment,  I  shall  not  roam  into  guesses 
on  future  events,  which  I  probably  shall  not  know 
whether  they  happen  or  not.  Adieu  !  I  must  seal  my 
letter  to  have  it  ready.  It  is  not  very  informing,  but 
at  least  it  tells  you  that  everything  is  in  suspense. 


LETTER  CCCXLIX. 

Berkeley  Square,  March  30,  1781. 

I  wrote  a  letter  to  you  for  your  messenger  the 
moment  he  arrived,  but  he  was  detained  here  so  long 
that  it  must  have  reached  you  antiquated.  He  found 
us  exulting  for  the  capture  of  St.  Eustatia  :  the  scene 
is  a  little  changed  since,  both  in  the  West  and  East. 
America  is  once  more  not  quite  ready  to  be  conquered, 
though  every  now  and  then  we  fancy  it  is.  Tarleton 
is  defeated,  Lord  Cornwallis  is  checked,  and  Arnold 
not  sure  of  having  betrayed  his  friends  to  much  pur- 
pose. If  we  are  less  certain  of  recovering  what  we 
have  thrown  away,  we  are  in  full  as  much  danger  of 
losing  what  we  acquired,  not  more  creditably,  at  the 
other  end  of  the  world.  Hyder  Ally,  an  Indian  po- 
tentate, thinking  he  has  as  much  right  to  the  diamonds 
of  his  own  country  as  the  Rumbolds  and  Sykes's,  who 


296  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

were  originally  waiters  in  a  tavern,   has  given  us  a 
blow,  and  has  not  done.'1' 

Europe  has  a  mass  of  debts  to  pay  to  the  other 
quarters  of  the  globe  ;  which,  on  the  merit  of  having 
improved  navigation  and  invented  gunpowder,  we  have 
thought  we  had  a  right  to  desolate  and  plunder  ;  and 
we  have  been  such  savages  as  to  punish  each  other 
for  our  crimes.  The  Romans  havocked  the  world  for 
glory  ;  the  Spaniards,  Portuguese,  Dutch,  and  English, 
for  gold  ;  but  each  nation  thirsted  to  engross  the 
whole  mass,  and  became  scourges  to  each  other.  At- 
tila  and  Hyder  Ally  are  at  least  as  innocent  as  Julius 
Cassar  and  Lord  Clive. 

*  Intelligence  had  recently  reached  England,  that  Hyder  Ali  Khan 
one  of  the  greatest  princes  as  well  as  the  greatest  warrior  that  India  ever 
produced,  had,  in  the  preceding  July,  with  an  army  of  one  hundred 
thousand  men,  burst  at  once,  like  a  prodigious  tempest,  into  the  Car- 
natic.  This  terrible  invasion  is  described  by  Mr.  Burke  in  the  follow- 
ing wonderful  passage  of  his  speech  on  the  debts  of  the  Nabob  of  Arcot : 
"  When  at  length  Hyder  Ali  found  that  he  had  to  do  with  men  who 
either  would  sign  no  convention,  or  whom  no  treaty  and  no  signature 
could  bind,  he  decreed  to  make  the  country  possessed  by  these  incorri- 
gible and  predestinated  criminals  a  memorable  example  to  mankind. 
He  resolved,  in  the  gloomy  recesses  of  a  mind  capacious  of  such  things, 
to  leave  the  whole  Carnatic  an  everlasting  monument  of  vengeance,  and 
to  put  perpetual  desolation  as  a  barrier  between  him  and  those  against 
whom  the  faith  which  holds  the  moral  elements  of  the  world  together 
was  no  protection.  Having  terminated  his  disputes  with  every  enemy 
and  every  rival,  who  buried  their  mutual  animosities  in  their  common 
detestation  against  the  creditors  of  the  Nabob  of  Arcot,  he  drew  from 
every  quarter  whatever  a  savage  ferocity  could  add  to  his  new  rudiments 
in  the  arts  of  destruction  ;  and  compounding  all  the  materials  of  fury 
havoc,  and  desolation  into  one  black  cloud,  he  hung  for  a  while  on  the 
declivities  of  the'  mountains.  Whilst  the  authors  of  all  these  evils  were 
idly  and  stupidly  gazing  on  this  menacing  meteor,  which  blackened  all 
their  horizon,  it  suddenly  burst,  and  poured  down  the  whole  of  its  con- 
tents on  the  plains  of  the  Carnatic.     Then  ensued  a  scene  of  woe,  the 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  297 

Our  fleet  is  gone  to  rescue  Gibraltar.  The  French 
fleet  has  not  yet  moved  ;  but  the  next  month  will 
probably  be  an  important  one.  The  negotiations  for 
peace  seem  to  have  stopped  in  their  birth,  and  pro- 
bably will  depend  on  the  events  of  that  month.  The 
Dutch  reply  to  our  Manifesto  will  not  raise  our  credit, 
as  it  gives  us  the  lie  pretty  flatly  on  our  assertion  of 
their  having  attempted  to  make  us  no  satisfaction  on 
our  complaints  of  the  conduct  of  Amsterdam.  Methinks 
it  were  better  to  be  a  little  accurate,  as  there  are 
more  readers  in  Europe  than  our  country  gentlemen. 

I  am  sorry  when  I  cannot  admire  all  our  proceed- 
ings ;  but  politics  will  not  always  stand  the  test  of 
cool  survey.  Indeed,  it  is  not  fair  to  decide  on  parts, 
especially  in  the  heat  of  events.  The  wisdom  of 
measures  must  depend  on  the  prudence,  goodness,  and 
object  of  the  system,  together  with  a  just  calculation 

like  of  which  no  eye  had  seen,  no  heart  conceived,  and  which  no 
tongue  can  adequately  tell.  All  the  horrors  of  war  before  known  or 
heard  of  were  mercy  to  that  new  havoc.  A  storm  of  universal  fire 
blasted  every  field,  consumed  every  house,  destroyed  every  temple. 
The  miserable  inhabitants  flying  from  their  flaming  villages  in  part  were 
slaughtered  ;  others,  without  regard  to  sex,  to  age,  to  the  respect  of  rank 
or  sacredness  of  function,  fathers  torn  from  children,  husbands  from 
wives,  enveloped  in  a  whirlwind  of  cavalry,  and  amidst  the  goading 
spears  of  drivers  and  the  trampling  of  pursuing  horses,  were  swept  into 
captivity  in  an  unknown  and  hostile  land.  Those  who  were  able  to 
evade  this  tempest,  fled  to  the  walled  cities.  But  escaping  from  fire, 
sword,  and  exile,  they  fell  into  the  jaws  of  famine."  In  a  letter  written 
home  to  the  East  India  Directors  at  the  close  of  the  year  1780,  Sir  Eyre 
Coote  says  of  Hyder  Ali,  that  "  he  had  taken  every  measure  which 
could  occur  to  the  most  experienced  general  to  distress  us,  and  to  render 
himself  formidable  ;  and  that  his  conduct  in  his  civil  capacity  had  been 
supported  by  a  degree  of  political  address  unequalled  by  any  power  that 
had  yet  appeared  in  Indostan." — Eo. 


298  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

of  the  probability  of  events,  and  a  comparison  of  the 
value  of  the  advantage  of  success  with  the  danger  and 
detriment  of  miscarriage.  I  am  far  from  allowing 
that  even  wise  measures,  with  all  the  profit  of  success, 
are  good;  for  then  fortunate  conquerors  would  be  ex- 
cusable, which  I  shall  never  think  :  but  I  doubt  we 
are  not  likely  to  have  that  dazzling  consolation  ;  nor 
have  I  knowledge  or  penetration  enough  to  discover 
the  beauty  of  the  system  that  threw  us  into  the  Ame- 
rican war,  and  still  prefers  war  with  France,  Spain, 
and  Holland,  to  the  confession  of  our  mistake.  Adieu  ! 
my  dear  sir. 

P.S.  I  am  impatient  for  the  History  of  the  Medici. 


LETTER  CCCL. 

Berkeley  Square,  April  27,  1781. 

Perhaps  you  may  think  I  am  fallen  into  a  le- 
thargy ;  but  it  is  only  the  war  that  is  so.  At  least, 
though  the  ocean  is  covered  with  navies,  they  do 
nothing  but  walk  about  in  their  sleep, — unless  you 
know  to  the  contrary ;  for  you  are  nearer  to  the 
scene  of  action,  if  there  is  any,  than  we  are.  The 
Spanish  fleet  is  said  to  be  retired  to  Cadiz,  and  to 
have  civilly  left  the  path  to  Gibraltar  open,  which 
would  be  very  civil.  In  short,  I  can  tell  you  nothing 
but  hearsay,  or  what  people  say  without  having  heard. 
It  is  a  month  since  I  wrote  to  you,  and  yet  nothing 
has  happened  but  an  Extraordinary  Gazette  or  two, 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  299 

which  brags,  like  a  bridegroom  at  threescore,  of  having 
forced  two  little  fortresses  that  begged  to  be  ravished, 
and  of  Arbuthnot  having  balked  an  inferior  squadron. 
Methinks  we  Western  powers  should  make  peace,  and 
not  expose  ourselves  to  the  Vandals  of  the  North,  who 
overrun  kingdoms  in  fewer  weeks  than  it  costs  us 
years  to  take  an  island  no  bigger  than  half-a-crown. 

The  Parliament  has  quite  left  off  business,  though 
it  has  not  shut  up  shop.  In  short,  I  hope  your  ne- 
phew writes  to  you,  for  I  can  find  nothing  to  say  ;  and 
where  he  does,  is  past  my  comprehension.  If  I  trusted 
to  my  imagination,  I  should  not  wonder  at  its  being 
worn  out ;  but,  as  I  have  always  piqued  myself  upon 
telling  nothing  but  facts  that  at  least  I  believe  true, 
my  eyes  and  ears  are  not  gone  ;  and,  if  there  was  an 
event  no  bigger  than  a  grain  of  millet,  I  could  easily 
know  it ;  for  those  drag-nets,  our  newspapers,  let  no- 
thing escape  them,  from  whales  to  the  most  insignifi- 
cant fry.  But  four  days  ago,  the  Public  Advertiser 
informed  the  town  that  I  have  a  field  that  wants 
draining  at  Strawberry  Hill,  which  no  doubt  is  very 
important  intelligence  !  Antiquaries  used  to  be  ridi- 
culous for  recovering  trifles  from  the  havoc  of  time  : 
now  we  have  daily  writers  that  sift  the  kennels,  and 
save  every  straw  that  would  be  swallowed  in  the 
common  sewer.  Then  think  what  thousands  of  loiterers 
we  must  have,  who  can  buy  and  read  such  rubbish,  in 
the  midst  of  a  civil  war,  and  wars  with  the  great 
nations !  How  contemptible  we  are !  and,  to  our 
shame,  these  journals  of  our  trifling  are  circulated  all 


300  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

over  Europe  !  Don't  you  blush  when  you  read  them  % 
And  do  you  wonder  that  I  have  nothing  to  say  1  I 
have  always  reckoned  my  own  letters  very  trifling  and 
superficial ;  but  two  misses  that  correspond  would  be 
ashamed  of  communicating  such  foolish  paragraphs  as 
compose  the  daily  lectures  of  the  metropolis  :  and  yet 
it  is  well  when  they  are  only  foolish — more  commonly 
they  are  brutal  or  scandalous. 

Well !  I  have  been  writing  about  nothing,  and  may 
as  well  finish.  You  see  my  silence  is  owing  to  no 
want  of  good  will. 


LETTER  CCCLI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  May  6,  1781. 

Yes,  you  were  in  the  right  in  your  prophecy  of 
the  21st  of  April,  which  I  received  yesterday.  Darby 
has  relieved  Gibraltar,  without  opposition  from  the 
Spanish  fleet,  as  we  heard  two  days  ago  ;  nay,  that  he 
braved  them  in  Cadiz.  I  think  our  conduct  was  not  a 
little  rash,  but  I  am  sure  theirs  has  been  as  much  the 
reverse.  That  of  the  French  is  not  more  explicable, 
and  I  can  easily  believe  the  King  of  Spain  will  re- 
sent it. 

I  am  grieved  to  hear  you  complain  of  the  gout,  and 
the  weakness  it  leaves  in  your  hands.  I  wish  you  had 
adopted  my  bootikins.  I  have  suffered  terribly  in  my 
hands,  and  my  fingers  are  full  of  chalkstones,  and  yet 
you  see  I  write  as  well  as  ever  :  but  do  not  alarm 
yourself ;  your  fits  have  been  too  rare  and  too  slight 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  301 

to  disable  you.  One  always  fancies  the  weakness  from 
a  fit  incurable ;  twenty  years  ago  I  imagined  that  I 
never  should  walk  again. 

Our  affairs  in  the  East  I  do  believe  are  very  bad  ;*  I 
am  surprised  they  are  not  so  everywhere  :  but  France, 
Spain,  and  Holland  together,  seem  very  feeble  enemies. 
It  seems  to  be  a  favourable  moment  for  making  peace, 
as  it  will  be  some  honour  to  have  kept  them  all  at  bay. 


LETTER  CCCLII. 

Berkeley  Square,  May  1C,  1781. 

By  not  sending  you  the  first  rumours  of  Lord 
Cornwallis's  victory  over  the  American  General,  Greene, 
and  by  waiting  for  the  confirmation,  which  is  not  yet 
come,  though  undoubted,  I  am  able  to  balance  ac- 
counts, though  perhaps  you  did  not  desire  Fortune  to 
be  so  impartial.  Yesterday  we  learnt  that  La  Mothe 
Piquet,  who  had  lain  in  ambush  (no  sea-term,  I  doubt,) 

*  On  the  30th  of  April,  Lord  North  had  moved  for  a  Committee  of 
Secrecy,  to  enquire  into  the  causes  of  the  war  in  the  Carnatic.  An 
amendment  to  leave  out  the  words  "  of  secrecy,"  proposed  by  Mr.  Fox, 
was  warmly  seconded  by  Mr.  Burke.  "  We  are  called  upon,"  he 
said,  "  by  every  argument  of  morality  and  of  policy,  by  every  precept  of 
religion  and  of  duty,  to  make  that  justice  which  we  reverence  as  public 
as  the  noon-day  sun.  It  has  been  the  sentiment  and  the  sense  of  all 
ages.  '  Let  me  fight  with  Jupiter,'  says  Ajax,  '  but  give  me  day-light. 
Let  me  have  condemnation  or  let  me  have  acquittal  in  the  face  of  day.' 
The  acquittal  that  is  secret  cannot  be  honourable  ;  it  leaves  a  stain  even 
upon  innocence.  The  condemnation  that  is  secret  cannot  be  just  ;  it 
leaves  a  prejudice  in  favour  of  the  criminal,  injurious  to  the  tribunal  by 
whom  he  is  tried."     The  amendment  was  negatived  by  134  to  80.  —  En. 


302  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

at  the  mouth  of  the  Channel,  had  fallen  in  au  beau 
milieu  of  our  fleet  from  Eustatia,  laden  with  the  plun- 
der of  all  nations,  and  has  taken  at  least  twenty  of 
them."""  The  two  men-of-war  and  two  frigates  that  con- 
voyed all  that  spoil  took  to  their  heels,  and,  to  talk 
like  an  Irishman,  are  on  Irish  ground  in  one  of  their 
harbours.  To-day  we  invented  a  re-capture  by  Darby, 
but  he  is  not  arrived.  However,  our  loss  of  so  much 
wealth  will  not  comfort  the  King  of  Spain  for  the  re- 
lief of  Gibraltar,  nor  the  Dutch  for  the  loss  of  St. 
Eustatia  ;  for  I  do  not  suppose  that  France  will  invite 
its  allies  to  the  partition,  unless,  like  the  lion  in  the 
fable,  to  see  her  seize  all  on  different  pleas, — I  should 
say,  prerogatives,  to  which  nullum  tempus,  nullum  plea 
occurrant. 

My  military  details  are  very  brief,  for  I  neither  un- 
derstand them,  nor  load  my  memory  with  them ;  and 
for  your  information  it  is  better  I  should  not,  as  the 
quintessence  is  more  easily  digested,  and  can  be  less 
contested. 

The  Gazette  of  private  news  will  lie  in  little  room. 
The  disconsolate  widower,  your  friend  Sir  John  Dick, 
is  going  to  be  married  already  ;  and,  which  is  still 
more  rash  at  his  age,  to  a  giantess.  She  is  the  eldest 
daughter  of  the  late  Sir  John  Clavering,  and  was  ri- 

*  With  six  sail  of  the  line  and  two  frigates,  destined  for  some  secret 
expedition,  De  la  Motte  Piquet  fell  in,  on  the  26th  of  April,  with  the  St. 
Eustatia  convoy,  off  the  coast  of  Ireland,  captured  twenty  of  the  mer- 
chant-ships, and  returned  safe  with  them  to  port.  So  anxious  was  he 
to  secure  his  prizes  before  Admiral  Darby's  return,  that  he  suffered  Com- 
modore Hotham,  with  six  of  the  transports,  to  escape. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  303 

poned  by  the  climate  of  India,  like  an  orange  to  a 
shaddock.  I  suppose  she  intends  to  be  a  relict,  and 
then  to  marry  some  young  Gargantua. 

Strawberry  Hill,  17th. 

I  came  hither  this  morning  ;  but  as  I  shall  return 
to  town  to-morrow,  when  the  post  goes  away,  my 
letter  will  be  in  time,  though  a  little  ashamed  of  being 
so  meagre.  I  doubt  my  despatches  are  grown  very 
barren,  though  the  field  of  battle  is  so  extensive  ;  but 
you  must  allow  that  our  enemies  are  not  very  alert, 
and  that  we  have  some  negative  credit  in  not  having 
lost  more,  after  risking  so  much.  As  to  domestic 
news,  it  is  no  wonder  my  details  are  lean.  The  House 
of  Lords,  who  never  fatigued  themselves,  are  become  as 
antiquated  as  their  college,  the  Heralds'  Office,  and  as 
idle.  In  the  other  House  there  are  not  many  debates, 
and  the  unshaken  majority  renders  those  of  little  con- 
sequence.""''   The  disunion  of  the  leaders  increases  this 

*  There  had,  a  few  days  before,  been  a  long  debate  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  on  a  motion  of  Sir  George  Savile  for  referring  the  Petition  of 
the  Delegated  Counties  for  a  Redress  of  Grievances  to  a  Committee  of  the 
whole  House.  The  subscribers  to  the  petition  were  stated  to  be 
"  freeholders"  of  the  respective  counties,  not  "  delegates  "  of  associations ; 
several  members  having  stated,  that  they  could  admit  of  no  such  charac- 
ters in  a  constitutional  point  of  view.  Mr.  Wilberforce,  then  in  his 
twenty-second  year,  and  who  had  been  returned  to  the  new  Parliament, 
for  Hull,  thus  wrote,  on  the  30th  of  April,  to  one  of  his  constituents  . 
"  The  papers  would  show  you  by  what  a  trick  the  petition  was  laid 
upon  the  table.  The  petitioners  were  said  to  be  private  freeholders, 
and  as  such  were  gravely  read  over  the  names  of  Christopher  Wyvill, 
Charles  Fox,  Richard  Fitzpatrick,  &c.  They  will,  I  have  no  doubt,  proceed 
artfully  ;  but  let  them  once  but  put  in  their  noses  in  their  delegate  capa- 
city, and  they  will  be  hunted  out  as  they  deserve  ;  and  though  I  will  not 
promise  to  open,  I  will  accompany  the  hounds  in  full  cry,  with  my  Lord 


304  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

supineness.  For  smaller  events,  I  go  so  little  into  the 
world,  that  many  escape  me,  and  fewer  interest  me. 
Can  one  take  much  part  in  the  occupations  of  the 
grandchildren  of  one's  first  acquaintance  \  I  might, 
no  doubt,  collect  paragraphs,  if  I  took  pains  ;  for  cer- 
tainly no  reformation  has  taken  place.  Dissipation 
is  at  high-water  mark  ;  but  it  is  either  without 
variety,  novelty,  and  imagination,  or  the  moroseness  of 
age  makes  me  see  no  taste  in  their  pleasures.  Late- 
ness of  hours  is  the  principal  feature  of  the  times,  and 
certainly  demands  no  stress  of  invention.  Every  fash- 
ionable place  is  still  crowded  ;  no  instance  of  selection 
neither.  Gaming  is  yet  general ;  though  money,  the 
principal  ingredient,  does  not  abound."""  My  old  fa- 
vourite game,  Faro,  is  lately  revived.     I  have  played 

Advocate  at  their  head — and  a  fine  leader  of  a  pack  he  is."  Mr.  Henry 
Dun  das,  afterwards  Lord  Melville,  was  the  "  leader  of  a  pack"  here 
spoken  of.  Sir  George  Savile's  motion  was,  upon  a  division,  negatived 
by  212  to  135.— Ed. 

*  The  following  is  Mr.  Wilberforce's  picture  of  fashionable  life  at  this 
period  :  "  When  I  left  the  university,  so  little  did  I  know  of  general  so- 
ciety, that  I  came  up  to  London  stored  with  arguments  to  prove  the 
authenticity  of  Rowley's  poems  ;  and  now  I  was  at  once  immersed  in  poli- 
tics and  fashion.  The  very  first  time  I  went  to  Boodle's,  I  won  twenty- 
five  guineas  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk.  I  belonged  at  this  time  to  five  clubs 
— Miles  and  Evans's,  Brookes's,  Boodle's,  White's,  Goostree's.  The  first 
time  I  was  at  Brookes's,  scarcely  knowing  any  one,  I  joined  from  mere  shy- 
ness in  play  at  the  Faro  table,  where  George  Selwyn  kept  bank.  A  friend 
who  knew  my  inexperience,  and  regarded  me  as  a  victim  decked  out  for 
sacrifice,  called  to  me,  '  What,  Wilberforce,  is  that  you  ?  '  Selwyn 
quite  resented  the  interference,  and,  turning  to  him,  said  in  his  most  ex- 
pressive tone,  '  O,  sir,  don't  interrupt  Mr.  Wilberforce  ;  he  could  not  be 
better  employed.'  Nothing  could  be  more  luxurious  than  the  style  of  these 
clubs;  Fox,  Sheridan,  Fitzpatrick,  and  all  your  leading  men  frequented 
them,  and  associated  upon  the  easiest  terms  ;  you  chatted,  played  at 
cards,  or  gambled,  as  you  pleased." — En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  305 

but  thrice,  and  not  all  night,  as  J  used  to  do  ;  it  is  nol 
decent  to  end  where  one  began,  nor  to  sit  up  with  a 
generation  by  two  descents  my  juniors.  Mr.  Fox  is 
the  first  figure  in  all  the  places  I  have  mentioned  ;  the 
hero  in  Parliament,  at  the  gaming-table,  at  Newmarket. 
Last  week  he  passed  four-and-twenty  hours  without 
interruption  at  all  three/""  or  on  the  road  from  one  to 
the  other ;  and  ill  the  whole  time,  for  he  has  a  bad 
constitution,  and  treats  it  as  if  he  had  been  dipped  in 
the  immortal  river  :  but  I  doubt  his  heel  at  least  will 
be  vulnerable.f 

*  Mr.  Fox  had,  on  the  14th,  made  a  long  and  eloquent  speech  in  sup- 
port of  Mr.  Burke's  motion  relating  to  the  seizure  and  confiscation  of 
private  property  on  the  island  of  St.  Eustatia.  A  fortnight  after,  Wal- 
pole,  in  a  letter  to  General  Conway,  says,  "  As  I  came  up  St.  James's- 
street,  I  saw  a  cart  and  porters  at  Charles's  door  ;  coppers  and  old  chests 
of  drawers  loading.  In  short,  his  success  at  Faro  had  awakened  his 
host  of  creditors  ;  but  unless  his  hank  had  been  swelled  to  the  size  of  the 
Bank  of  England,  it  could  not  have  yielded  a  sop  for  each.  Epsom,  too, 
had  been  unpropitious,  and  one  creditor  had  actually  seized  and  carried 
off  his  goods,  which  did  not  seem  worth  removing.  As  I  returned  full  of 
this  scene,  whom  should  I  find  sauntering  by  my  own  door  but  Charles  ? 
He  came  up  and  talked  to  me  at  the  coach  -window,  on  the  Marriage-bill, 
with  as  much  sangfroid  as  if  he  knew  nothing  of  what  had  happened.  I 
have  no  admiration  for  insensibility  to  one's  own  faults,  especially  when 
committed  out  of  vanity.  Perhaps  the  whole  philosophy  consists  in  the 
commission.  The  more  marvellous  Fox's  parts  are,  the  more  one  is  pro- 
voked at  his  follies,  which  comfort  so  many  rascals  and  blockheads,  and 
make  all  that  is  admirable  and  amiable  in  him  only  matter  of  regret  to 
those  who  like  him  as  I  do." — Ed, 

t  "  As  early  as  1781,"  says  Sir  Nathaniel  Wraxall,  "Fox  was  at- 
tacked with  frequent  complaints  of  the  stomach  and  bowels,  attended  by 
acute  pain  ;  to  moderate  the  symptoms  of  which  he  usually  had  recourse 
to  laudanum.  He  had  already  impaired  his  bodily  powers  by  every 
variety  of  excess,  added  to  the  most  violent  mental  agitation."  Hist. 
Mem.  vol.  ii.  p.  246.— Ed. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  X 


306  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

There  is  a  topic  *  which  begins  to  predominate,  but 
not  proper  for  the  post,  nor  one  that  shall  be  so  to  me  ; 
for  I  recollect  under  what  King  I  was  born,  and  conse- 
quently can  have  nothing  to  do  with  a  reign  so  far  re- 
moved as  the  next  will  be.  As  I  too  am  always  partial 
to  youth, — having  not,  at  least,  the  spleen  of  age, — I 
make  the  greatest  allowances  for  inexperience  and 
novel  passions.  In  one  word,  I  give  no  ear  to  the 
commencement  of  future  history  ;  it  is  a  page  I  shall 
not  peruse  :  and  what  are  the  first  leaves  of  a  book  to 
one  that  can  make  no  progress  in  it  1  I  see  no  pro- 
spect of  conclusion  to  the  war — occupation  enough,  one 
should  think,  for  everybody  at  present ;  and  yet,  un- 
less roused  by  some  event,  which  too  is  forgotten  in 
three  days,  no  one  seems  to  care  about  the  general 
face  of  affairs,  but  is  as  indifferent  as  if  we  were  in  a 
dead  calm. 

Your  nephew  is  to  come  here  to-morrow  morning  to 
show  my  house  to  some  company  ;  my  nephew  f  is  to 
command  a  small  camp  this  summer. 

My  lord  has  answered  your  nephew's  letter,  and 
tells  him  he  is  not  legally  bound  to  pay  his  father's 
debts,  and  refers  him  to  Lucas — mon  Chancelier  vous 
dim  le  reste,  as  Kings  say  when  they  are  ashamed  of 
what  they  are  going  to  do. 

*  The  Prince  of  Wales.  [The  topic  of  general  conversation  at  this 
time  was  the  connection  which  the  Prince  had  formed  with  the  youthful 
and  beautiful  actress,  Mrs.  Robinson,  who  first  attracted  his  Royal  High- 
ness's  notice  when  performing  the  part  of  Perdita,  in  the  Winter's 
Tale.— Ed.] 

+  Lord  Orford. 


TO    SIR   HORACE  MANN.  30< 


LETTER  CCCLI11, 


Berkeley  Square,  June  8,  1781. 

The  late  Gazette,  boiled  down  from  Lord  Cornwal- 
lis's  relation,  will  still  convince  you  how  transient  our 
prospects  are  from  his  lordship's  successes.  In  truth, 
as  we  draw  prospects  from  the  faintest  hints,  no  won- 
der they  have  no  lasting  body  of  colours.  We  expect 
something  from  decker's  fall"" — no  ill  compliment  to 
him.  I  am  amazed  how  he  could  hope,  or  at  least  ex- 
pect, to  stand.  A  general  reformer,  a  Protestant,  and 
a  man  of  no  birth,  was  an  outrage  to  all  interests  and 
all  prejudices.  Sully,  with  some  less  objections,  could 
not  have  stemmed  the  same  torrent  without  a  Henri 
Quatre  to  descry  his  merit  and  support  it. 

The  Parliament  will  sit  to  the  middle  of  next  month 
on  India  aifairs,t  but  I  trouble  myself  with  neither. 

*  The  expected  reforms  which  Neeker  had  recommended  in  the  admi- 
nistration of  the  finances,  being  represented  to  the  King  as  inconsistent 
with  the  dignity  of  the  Crown,  he  was  dismissed  from  his  office  of  Comp- 
troller-general, and  M.  Jolly  de  Fleuri  was  appointed  in  his  stead. — Ed. 

f  The  House  of  Commons  were  at  this  time  closely  occupied  on  Lord 
North's  bill,  for  securing  to  the  public  a  participation  in  the  profits  of  the 
East  India  Company.  On  the  subject  of  this  bill,  Mr.  Wilberforce  thus 
wrote,  on  the  9th  of  June,  to  a  friend  :  "  We  have  a  blessed  prospect  of 
sitting  till  the  end  of  next  month.  Between  business  in  the  morning  and 
pleasure  at  night,  my  time  is  pretty  well  filled  up.  You  say,  the  Lord 
Advocate  (Mr.  Dundas)  will  give  them  a  trimming  on  the  Indian  affairs. 
I  agree  with  you  in  thinking  him  the  first  speaker  on  the  ministerial  side 
in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  there  is  a  manliness  in  his  character, 
which  prevents  his  running  away  from  the  question  ;  he  grants  all  his 
adversaries'  premises,  and  fights  them  upon  their  own  ground.  The  only 
India  affairs  we  have  yet  had  before  us  relate  to  Lord  North's  claim  on 
the  Company  of  600,000/.,  and  it  is  not  in  the  power  even  of  the  Lord 

x  2 


308  THE  HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

LETTER  CCCLIV. 

Strawberry  Hill,  July  5,  1781. 

Your  last  is  of  the  26th  of  May,  and  mine  of  the 
8  th  of  June  ;  since  that,  I  have  had  no  public  news  to 
tell  you.  Gazettes  will  perhaps  have  made  you  think 
that  the  Duke  of  Gloucester's  visit  to  the  Emperor  was 
political.  If  it  was,  the  business  was  despatched  in  an 
instant,  for  no  visit  was  ever  shorter.  Nothing  has 
come  to  my  knowledge  here  that  looks  towards  peace  ; 
but  indeed  nothing  does  come  to  my  knowledge,  nor  do 
I  inquire  about  anything  else.  The  war  is  not  even 
entertaining  ;  nothing  but  miscarriages  and  drawn 
battles.  I  believe  the  expense  of  the  sum  total  will  be 
the  only  striking  event. 

You  are,  as  usual,  very  kind  about  the  Rolle  estate,  * 
but  be  assured  I  shall  never  concern  myself  about  it. 
All  my  views  for  my  family  were  cut  up  by  the  roots 
when  the  pictures  were  sold  ;  nor  would  I  for  the 
world  make  interest  to  influence  my  lord's  will,  even 
were  I  younger.  You  say  he  is  kinder  to  me — yes,  to 
serve  himself.  If  my  real  services  have  had  so  little 
weight,  I  will  not  be  obliged  to  him  indirectly,  nor  will 

Advocate  to  put  a  good  face  on  that  transaction.  Upon  my  honour,  I  be- 
lieve it  to  be  a  transaction  which,  were  it  to  take  place  in  private  life, 
would  be  considered  as  a  direct  robbery.  The  matter  is  too  long  to  be 
explained  in  a  letter  ;  but  we  will  have  some  conversation  on  the  subject, 
and,  to  use  your  own  mode  of  arguing,  I  will  lay  you  any  sum  that  you 
will  finally  be  of  my  opinion."     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  21. — Ed. 

*  The  estate  of  the  Rolles  was  come  to  Lord  Orford  on  his  mother's 
death,  and  he  had  power  to  cut  off  the  entail,  and  leave  it  to  whom  he 
pleased,  as  well  as  the  Walpole  estate. 


TO    SIR   IIOKACE    MANN.  30.9 

I  stoop  to  court  his  rascally  creatures.  Oh  !  my  dear 
sir,  I  am  sixty -four,  and  am  infirm  and  breaking,  [do 
not  look  beyond  the  life  of  a  younger  man,  nor  have  a 
single  view  left ;  scarce  a  wish  but  to  pass  the  short 
remainder  in  tranquillity,  and,  as  much  as  I  can,  with- 
out pain,  and  with  preservation  of  my  senses. 

You  are  quite  mistaken  about  the  descent  of  the 
barony  of  Clinton.  Should  my  lord  leave  every 
shilling  to  his  father's  relations,  that  peerage,  coming 
by  his  mother,  would  go  away.  Another  barony,  that 
of  Say  and  Sele,  has  just  now  been  adjudged  to  a  Mr. 
Twisleton,  and  occasioned  examination  into  the  ho- 
nours that  have  been  in  the  earldom  of  Lincoln.  It 
struck  me  that  the  barony  of  Clinton,  if  Lord  Orford 
dies  without  children,  would  revert  to  the  present 
Duke  of  Newcastle,  and  thence  to  Lady  Lincoln's  only 
child,  a  daughter.  I  mentioned  this  to  her  father, 
Lord  Hertford ;  he  has  had  the  pedigree  sifted,  and  it 
comes  out  that  I  was  in  the  right,  though  it  had  oc- 
curred to  nobody  else :  so,  I  have  at  least  contributed 
to  give  a  peerage  to  one  of  my  relations. 

But  I  ought  not  to  have  wandered  so  far  when  I 
was  thanking  you  for  a  friendly  hint,  but  should  have 
thanked  you  for  a  positive  present.  You  told  me, 
months  ago,  that  you  had  sent  me  a  lump  of  crystal 
before  my  last  positive  prohibition.  That  lump  I  have 
just  received,  and  what  you  spoke  of  so  irreverently 
proves  a  beautiful  sculptured  vase  of  rock  crystal. 
There  is  no  end  of  your  gifts — but  there  must  be  !  re- 
member, reflect,  how  little  time  I  may  have  to  enjoy 


310  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

them;   they  will  only  figure  in  my  inventory  at  my 
death. 

The  Duchess  Dowager  of  Beaufort  breakfasted  here 
the  other  day,  and,  after  inquiring  about  you  most  par- 
ticularly, told  me  the  transport  you  expressed  on  at- 
taining the  silver  chest  of  Benvenuto  Cellini  for  me. 
Oh  !  how  sad  is  the  thought  that  you  are  never  to  see 
your  presents  arranged  and  displayed  here  with  all  the 
little  honour  I  can  confer  on  them  ;  but  they  are 
all  recorded  in  my  catalogue,  and  whoever  reads  it 
will  think  I  had  no  shame  or  gratitude.  To  put  a  stop 
to  your  magnificence,  I  must  be  brutal,  and  treat  you 
as  Lord  Hunsdon  did  Queen  Elizabeth,  when  she  laid 
the  robes  of  an  earl  on  his  death -bed.  I  must  finish; 
for  I  am  at  this  instant  in  pain  with  the  rheumatism, 
and  going  to  bed.     I  wish  us  both  a  good  night. 

The  town  says,  Lord  Mulgrave  is  returned  from  a 
design  against  Flushing,  which  failed,  as  his  pilots 
were  so  ignorant.  I  hear,  too,  that  an  account  came 
to-day  of  the  junction  of  Lord  Cornwallis  and  Arnold 
in  Virginia,  which  will  revive  our  hopes — to  be  again 
disappointed.     The  Parliament  will  adjourn  next  week. 

This  was  an  hors-d'ceuvre,  and  you  must  excuse  my 
brevity. 


LETTER  CCCLV. 


Berkeley  Square,  Aug.  1,  1781. 

Do  not  be  surprised  that,  though   I  write  so  fre- 
quently, I  tell  you  so  little  news  :  I  know  none  but 


TO    Sill   HORACE   MANN.  ,'H  1 

what  you  see  in  all  the  papers.  Tobago  is  allowed  to 
be  taken  by  the  French,  and  there  is  scarce  more  doubt 
of  Pensacola  being  taken  by  the  Spaniards.  * 

Lord  Walpole's  son  was  married  last  week  to  my 

niece,  Sophia  Churchill.     It  is  more  than  your  friend, 

Sir  John  Dick,  is  to  his  betrothed.     He  has  acted  very 

foolishly,  both  in  engaging  and  disengaging   himself. 

He  sent  his  future  bride  an  abrupt  letter,  to  say  he 

found  himself  too  old  and  infirm  to  proceed.     Did  not 

he  know  three  months  ago  that  he  was  sixty-four  ? 

Some  say,   he  discovered  that  Mademoiselle  was  not 

very  fond  of  him  :  did  he  expect  she  would  be  %     In 

short,  it  is  unlucky  to  look  well  at  three-score,f  for,  in 

reality,  nobody  can  fall  in  love  with  one  at  that  age 

but  one's  self. 

I  have  not  received  Galluzzi's  history,  nor  heard  a 
word  of  its  arrival.  I  will  not  be  impatient,  lest,  as  I 
am  on  the  brink  of  sixty-four  too,  I  should  find  I  have 
forgotten  my  Italian  and  cannot  enjoy  it. 

*  The  island  of  Tobago  had,  on  the  23rd  of  May,  been  compelled 
to  surrender  to  a  considerable  body  of  land-forces  under  the  command 
of  M.  de  Blanchelande,  the  late  governor  of  St. Vincent's  ;  and  in  the  same 
month  Pensacola,  the  capital  of  the  province  of  West  Florida,  was  deliver- 
ed up  to  the  Spanish  forces  under  the  command  of  Don  Bernardo  de 
Galvez,  governor  of  Louisiana. — Ed. 

+  "I  lived  during  several  years,"  says  Wraxall,  "  in  habits  of  familiar 
acquaintance  with  Sir  John  Dick,  who  retained,  &t  fourscore,  all  the  ac- 
tivity of  middle  life,  together  with  the  perfect  possession  of  his  memory 
and  faculties.  He  was  an  agreeable,  entertaining,  and  well-bred  man, 
who  had  seen  much  of  the  world."     Hist.  Mem.  vol.  i.  p.  193. — Ed. 


312  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 


LETTER  CCCLVI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Aug.  23,  1781. 

Your  last  but  one  mentioned  your  head  being 
disordered  by  the  gout;  but,  as  the  last  said  nothing 
of  it,  I  trust  it  was  a  very  transient  attack. 

You  have  seen  in  the  papers  all  that  I  could  know 
of  the  sea-fight  between  Parker  and  the  Dutch.""  I 
believe  neither  side  had  cause  of  triumph :  however,  we 
boast  of  having  driven  back  their  trading-vessels.  The 
King  and  Prince  have  been  to  thank  the  Admiral  and 
Fleet.f     The  vast  storm  that  hangs  over  Gibraltar  does 

*  On  the  5th  of  August,  while  in  charge  of  a  convoy,  Admiral  Hyde 
Parker  fell  in  with  a  Hutch  squadron,  escorting  a  large  convoy,  on  the 
Doggerbank.  The  following  is  the  Admiral's  own  account  of  this  me- 
morable action  :  "  I  was  happy  to  find  that  I  had  the  wind  of  them  ;  as 
the  great  number  of  their  large  frigates  might  otherwise  have  endangered 
my  convoy.  Having  separated  the  men-of-war  from  the  merchant-ships, 
and  made  a  signal  to  the  last  to  keep  their  wind,  I  bore  away  with  a 
general  signal  to  chase.  The  enemy  formed  their  line,  consisting  of  eight 
two-decked  ships,  on  the  starboard  tack  :  ours,  including  the  Dolphin, 
consisting  of  seven.  Not  a  gun  was  fired  on  either  side,  until  within  dis- 
tance of  half  musket-shot.  The  Fortitude  then  being  abreast  of  the 
Dutch  Admiral,  the  action  began,  and  continued,  with  an  unceasing  fire, 
for  three  hours  and  forty  minutes.  By  this  time  our  ships  were  unma- 
nageable. I  made  an  effort  to  form  the  line,  in  order  to  renew  the  action, 
but  found  it  impracticable.  The  Bienfaisant  had  lost  her  main-top-mast, 
and  the  Buffalo  her  fore-yard  ;  the  rest  of  the  ships  were  not  less  shat- 
tered in  their  masts,  rigging,  and  sails.  The  enemy  appeared  to  be 
in  as  bad  a  condition.  Both  squadrons  lay  to,  a  considerable  time,  near 
to  each  other ;  when  the  Dutch,  with  their  convoy,  bore  away  for  the 
Texel.     We  were  not  in  a  condition  to  follow  them." 

t  The  imputed  neglect  in  the  Admiralty  of  furnishing  Admiral  Parker 
with  a  force  equal  to  the  accomplishment  of  his  object,  excited  much  dis- 
satisfaction ;  and  to  this  dissatisfaction  was  in  some  measure  attributed  the 
extraordinary  favour  shown  to  the  Admiral,  by  a  royal  visit,  upon  his  ar- 


TO    SIR   HORACE  MANN.  313 

not  seem  to  alarm  us.  Indeed,  they,"'  of  whose  judg- 
ment I  have  an  opinion,  do  not  believe  it  will  be 
taken  ;  however,  I  pity  the  brave  men  who  are  cooped 
up  in  it.  I  know  nothing  from  any  other  quarter  ; 
but  everything  is  a  theme  for  moralizing,  from  Gibral- 
tar to  the  Tribune  f  at  Florence.  If  that  inestimable 
chamber  is  not  inviolate,  what  mortal  structure  is  ? 
Zoffani's  picture,  however,  will  rise  in  value,  as  a  por- 
trait of  what  that  room  was ;  yet  its  becoming  more 
precious  will  not,  I  doubt,  expedite  the  sale  of  it.  It 
is  pity  that  they  who  love  to  display  taste  will  not  be 
content  with  showing  their  genius  without  making 
alterations,  and  then  we  should  have  more  samples  of 
the  styles  of  different  ages.  Some  monuments  of  our 
predecessors  ought  to  be  sacred.  Sir  William  Stan- 
hope was  persuaded  by  Sir  Thomas  Robinson  and  Mr. 
Ellis  (the  present  possessor)  to  improve  Pope's  garden 
here  in  my  neighbourhood.    The  Poet  had  valued  him- 

rival  with  his  shattered  squadron  at  the  Nc-re.  It  was  rumoured,  that  the 
visit  was  intended  to  be  distinguished  by  some  signal  mark  of  royal  ap- 
probation ;  but  it  was  soon  understood,  that  no  promotion  whatever 
would  be  accepted.  The  sturdy  Admiral  had  the  honour  of  dining  with  the 
King  and  the  Prince  of  Wales  on  board  the  royal  yacht ;  upon  which  oc- 
casion he  is  said  to  have  hinted  his  dissatisfaction  and  intention  of 
retiring,  by  wishing  his  Majesty  younger  officers  and  better  ships  :  he  re- 
signed his  command  immediately  after.  By  the  death  of  his  brother,  in  the 
following  year,  he  became  a  baronet ;  and  on  the  change  of  Administra- 
tion, being  nominated  to  the  chief  command  of  the  British  fleet  in  the 
East  Indies,  he  embarked  in  the  Juno,  in  October,  but  never  reached  his 
destination  ;  no  tidings  being  ever  heard  of  the  ship,  or  any  of  her  crew, 
after  she  had  passed  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope. — Ed. 

*  General  Conway. 

t  The  Great-Duke  had  removed  many  of  the  curiosities,  and  pra- 
tiqueW  another  door  in  it,  so  that  it  was  become  a  passage -room. 


314  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

self  on  the  disposition  of  it,  and  with  reason.  Though 
containing  but  five  square  acres,  enclosed  by  three 
lanes,  he  had  managed  it  with  such  art  and  deception, 
that  it  seemed  a  wood,  and  its  boundaries  were  no- 
where discoverable."""  It  is  true,  it  was  closely  planted, 
and  consequently  damp.  Refined  taste  went  to  work : 
the  vocal  groves  were  thinned,  modish  shrubs  replaced 
them,  and  light  and  three  lanes  broke  in  ;  and,  if  the 
Muses  wanted  to  tie  up  their  garters,  there  is  not  a 
nook  to  do  it  without  being  seen.  Poor  Niobe's  chil- 
dren, f  who  now  stand  in  a  row,  as  if  saying  their  cate- 
chism, will  know  how  to  pity  them !  I  remember  a 
story  of  old  Thomas,  Earl  of  Pembroke  :  he  one  day 
took  it  into  his  grave  head  to  give  eye-balls  with  char- 
coal to  all  his  statues  at  Wilton,  and  then  called  his 
wife  and  daughters  to  see  how  much  livelier  the  gods, 
goddesses,  and  emperors  were  grown  !  Lively,  indeed  ! 
for  Mr.  Arundel,  his  son-in-law,  had  improved  on  his 

*  "  There  was,"  says  Walpole,  in  his  History  of  Modern  Gardening, 
"  a  little  affected  modesty  in  Pope,  when  he  said,  of  all  his  works,  he  was 
most  proud  of  his  Garden  :  and  yet  it  was  a  singular  effort  of  art  and 
taste,  to  compress  so  much  variety  and  scenery  into  five  acres  !  The  pass- 
ing through  the  gloom  from  the  grotto  to  the  opening  day  and  again  as- 
sembling shades,  the  dusky  groves,  the  larger  lawn,  and  the  solemnity  of 
the  termination  at  the  cypresses  that  lead  up  to  his  Mother's  tomh,  are 
managed  with  exquisite  judgment  ;  and  though  Lord  Peterborough  as- 
sisted him 

'  To  form  his  quincunx,  and  to  rank  his  vines,' 
those  were  not  the  most  pleasing  ingredients  of  his  little  perspective." — 
Ed. 

t  The  Great-Duke  had  fetched  from  Rome  the  group  of  Niobe  and 
her  children,  and  placed  them  round  a  chamber  ;  by  which  means  they 
remained  in  strange  unmeaning  attitudes,  and  no  longer  expressed  their 
story. 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  ?>]5 

lordship's  idea,  and  with  the  same  charcoal  had  distri- 
buted whole  thickets  of  black  hair  over  the  bodies  of 
the  whole  marble  assembly.  As  Niobe  and  the  Misses 
Niobes  are  in  a  French  room,  they  may  come  off  for  a 
quantity  of  rouge. 


LETTER  CCCLVII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Sept.  7,  1781. 

The  combined  fleets,  to  the  amount  of  forty-seven 
or  forty-nine  sail,  brought  news  of  their  own  arrival  at 
the  mouth  of  the  Channel  a  day  or  two  before  your 
letter,  of  August  the  1 8  th,  brought  an  account  of  that 
probability,  and  of  the  detachment  for  Minorca.  Ad- 
miral Darby,  on  a  false  alarm,  or,  perhaps,  a  true  one, 
had  returned  to  Torbay  a  week  ago,  where  he  is  wait- 
ing for  reinforcements.  This  is  the  fourth  or  fifth  day 
since  the  appearance  of  the  enemy  off  Scilly.  It  is 
thought,  I  find  here,  (whither  I  came  to-day,)  that  the 
great  object  is  our  Jamaica  fleet;  but  that  a  detach- 
ment is  gone  to  Ireland  to  do  what  mischief  they  can 
on  the  coast  before  our  ally,  the  Equinox,  will  beseech 
them  to  retire/''     Much  less  force  than  this  Armada 

*  The  combined  French  and  Spanish  fleets,  after  seeing  the  troops 
safe  into  the  Mediterranean,  returned,  to  the  amount  of  about  fifty  ships 
of  the  line,  to  cruize  at  the  mouth  of  the  English  Channel,  in  the  hopes 
of  intercepting  some  of  our  great  homeward  bound  convoys,  which  were 
then  daily  expected ;  as  well  as  a  large  outward  bound  fleet,  on  the  point 
of  its  departure  from  Cork.  So  wretched  was  the  condition  of  the  com- 
bined fleet,  that,  in  anticipation  of  the  approaching  gales,  they  made  their 
way  into  port  as  speedily  as  possible.  The  French  admiral,  M.  de 
(h'uehen,  returned  with  his  division  to  Brest  harbour,  on  the  11th  of  Sep- 
tember.— Ed. 


316  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

would  have  done  more  harm  two  years  ago,  when  they 
left  a  card  at  Plymouth,  than  this  can  do ;  as  Plymouth 
is  now  very  strong,  and  that  there  are  great  disciplined 
armies  now  in  both  islands.  Of  Gibraltar  we  have  no 
apprehensions.     I  know  less  of  Minorca. 

Lord  George  Gordon  is  standing  candidate  for  the 
City  of  London  on  an  accidental  vacancy  ;  but  his  pre- 
mature alarm  last  year  has  had  a  sinister  effect.''"'  In 
short,  those  riots  have  made  mankind  sick  of  them, 
and  give  him  no  chance  of  success. 

What  can  I  say  more  %  Nothing  at  present ;  but  I 
will  the  moment  any  event  presents  itself.     My  hope 

*  The  vacancy  in  the  City  representation  was  occasioned  by  the  death 
of  Alderman  Harley.  Though  he  announced  his  intention  of  becoming  a 
candidate,  Lord  George  Gordon  did  not  proceed  to  the  poll.  In  the  former 
parliament,  this  eccentric  nobleman  had  sat  for  the  town  of  Luggershall. 
Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  who  was  at  that  time  a  great  frequenter  of  the  gallery, 
gives  the  following  account  of  his  demeanour  in  the  House  of  Commons :  "  I 
never  thought  him  a  man  from  whom  his  country  had  much  to  dread : 
he  spoke,  indeed,  upon  all  occasions,  but  his  speeches  were  incoherent 
and  ridiculous.  One  day,  I  remember,  he  read  a  newspaper  as  part  of 
his  speech  :  at  another  time,  he  kept  the  whole  House  waiting  two  hours 
while  he  read  them  an  Irish  pamphlet.  He  seemed  the  less  dangerous  as 
he  had  not  the  support  of  either  party  :  one  day  he  attacked  the  Ministry, 
the  next  the  Opposition,  and  sometimes  both  the  one  and  the  other.  It 
has  happened  to  him  to  divide  the  House,  when  he  alone  voted  for  a 
question,  to  which  every  other  member  gave  his  negative.  Yet  what 
dreadful  effects  may  not  a  mistaken  zeal  produce  even  in  such  hands  ! 
though  it  must  be  confessed,  that  Lord  George  is  not  destitute  of  qualities 
which,  in  an  age  when  religion  had  greater  influence  upon  the  minds  of 
men  than  it  has  at  present,  might  have  raised  him  to  be  the  scourge  of 
his  country.  He  is  endowed  with  a  spirit  of  enthusiasm,  and  with  the 
most  determined  resolution  ;  add  to  this,  that  his  manner  of  speaking  not 
being  in  the  least  declamatory,  but  in  the  style  of  conversation,  is  most 
capable  of  working  an  effect  upon  an  ignorant  audience."  Life,  vol.  i. 
p.  130.— Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  317 

is  that,  after  a  fermentation,  there  will  be  a  settle- 
ment, and  that  peace  will  arise  out  of  it. 

The  Decree'55'  you  sent  me  against  high  heads  di- 
verted me.  It  is  as  necessary  here;  but  would  not 
have  such  expeditious  effect.  The  Queen  has  never 
admitted  feathers  at  Court ;  but,  though  the  nation 
has  grown  excellent  courtiers,  Fashion  remained  in 
opposition,  and  not  a  plume  less  was  worn  anywhere 
else.  Some  centuries  ago,  the  clergy  preached  against 
monstrous  head-dresses;  but  Religion  had  no  more 
power  than  our  Queen.  It  is  better  to  leave  the  Mode 
to  its  own  vagaries ;  if  she  is  not  contradicted,  she 
seldom  remains  long  in  the  same  mood.  She  is  very 
despotic  ;  but,  though  her  reign  is  endless,  her  laws  are 
repealed  as  fast  as  made. 

Mrs.  Darner,  General  Conway's  daughter,  is  going 
abroad  to  confirm  a  very  delicate  constitution — I  be- 
lieve, at  Naples.  I  will  say  very  few  words  on  her 
after  telling  you  that,  besides  being  his  daughter,  I 
love  her  as  my  own  child.  It  is  not  from  wanting 
matter,  but  from  having  too  much.  She  has  one  of  the 
most  solid  understandings  I  ever  knew,  astonishingly  im- 
proved, but  with  so  much  reserve  and  modesty,  that  I 
have  often  told  Mr.  Conway  he  does  not  know  the  ex- 
tent of  her  capacity  and  the  solidity  of  her  reason. 
We  have  by  accident  discovered,  that  she  writes  Latin 
like  Pliny,  and  is  learning  Greek.  In  Italy  she  will 
be  a  prodigy.     She  models  like  Bernini,  has   excelled 

*  An  Ordinance  of  the  Great-Duke  against  high  head-dresses. 


318  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

the  moderns  in  the  similitudes  of  her  busts,  and  has 
lately  begun  one  in  marble.  You  must  keep  all  know- 
ledge of  these  talents  and  acquisitions  to  yourself ;  she 
would  never  forgive  my  mentioning,  at  least  her  men- 
tal qualities.  You  may  just  hint  that  I  have  talked  of 
her  statuary,  as  you  may  assist  her  if  she  has  a  mind 
to  borrow  anything  to  copy  from  the  Great-Duke's 
collection.  Lady  William  Campbell,  her  uncle's  widow, 
accompanies  her,  who  is  a  very  reasonable  woman  too, 
and  equally  shy.  If  they  return  through  Florence, 
pray  give  them  a  parcel  of  my  letters.  I  had  been 
told  your  nephew  would  make  you  a  visit  this  autumn, 
but  I  have  heard  nothing  from  him.  If  you  should  see 
him,  pray  give  him  the  parcel,  for  he  will  return  sooner 
than  they. 

I  have  a  gouty  pain  in  my  hand,  that  would  pre- 
vent my  saying  more,  had  I  more  to  say. 


LETTER  CCCLVIII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Sept.  11,  1781, 
2  o'clock. 

Though  this  is  to  go  by  your  own  servant  Car- 
dini,  I  shall  write  but  three  words  :  for,  in  the  first 
place,  I  don't  know  but  he  may  be  set  out  before  this 
can  possibly  get  to  town,  whence  my  own  servant 
brought  me  yours  this  moment  from  him ;  and  se- 
condly, as  he  may  be  taken  at  sea,  I  shall  say  little. 
Not  a  tittle  of  event  has  happened  since  the  combined 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  319 

fleets  were  at  the  entrance  of  the  Channel,  where  they 
certainly  will  not  venture  to  stay  long  :  the  wind 
blows  very  hard  to-day,  and  may  do  them  great  mischief. 
They  have  no  transports  ;  and,  if  they  mean  any  at- 
tempt on  land,  it  will  be  on  Ireland  :  but  it  will  be 
no  surprise,  and  it  is  generally  thought  they  only  wait 
to  intercept  our  Jamaica  fleet.  Minorca  I  conclude 
will  be  taken.  I  am  happy  to  hear  you  are  so  well, 
as  I  am. 


LETTER  CCCLIX. 

Sept.  19,  1781. 

I  have  received  your  letter  of  the  4th  to-day,  in 
which  you  send  me  your  late  dates.  I  have  no  doubt 
of  having  received  them  all,  but  cannot  verify  it,  as 
they  are  at  Strawberry  and  I  am  in  town.  That  of 
mine  which  you  received  so  long  after  the  term,  I 
conclude,  was  neglected  at  the  office  ;  for  why  should 
they  detain  it  1  My  letters  certainly  contain  nothing 
of  consequence.  I  am  in  no  secrets  of  any  party,  and 
certainly  should  not  trust  them  to  the  post  if  I  knew 
any, — still  less  to  all  posts,  English,  Austrian,  Dutch, 
and  Italian.  I  have  lived  too  long,  besides  being  a 
Prime  Minister's  son,  not  to  know  that  letters  are 
opened  ;  and,  consequently,  what  I  write  anybody  is 
welcome  to  see,  if  they  have  such  curiosity.  You,  I 
believe,  find  that  I  seldom  tell  you  anything  but  what 
you  have  seen  before  in  some  public  newspaper.  The 
almost   sole    merit  of  my  letters  is  that  I  mean  to 


320  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

ascertain  your  belief,  that,  when  I  repeat  what  you 
have  read  in  the  papers,  you  may  be  sure  that  it  is 
true,  or  that  I  at  least  believe  it.  My  sentiments  are 
pretty  well  known,  and,  were  they  of  any  importance, 
it  is  not  now  that  they  are  to  be  learnt. 

I  can  tell  you  little  of  the  combined  fleets  but  con- 
tradictions. Our  papers  say,  they  are  returned  to 
Brest.  Others  say,  they  are  still  cruizing  to  the  west, 
in  expectation  of  our  mercantile  fleets.  As  variously 
I  hear  of  Darby  :  the  printed  authorities  make  him 
returned  to  Torbay  ;  the  verbal,  at  sea.  All  I  prove 
is,  that  I  don't  know  which  accounts  are  true.  Mi- 
norca I  have  given  up ;  though  we  read  daily  of  a 
Russian  fleet  in  the  Mediterranean,  to  whom  we  are 
supposed  to  have  ceded  it,— a  little  late  to  be  sure  : 
I  question  whether  the  Czarina  would  accept  a  present 
encumbered  with  a  law-suit. 

One  good  event  I  do  know  :  Lord  George  Gordon 
has  given  up  his  pretensions  of  being  member  for  Lon- 
don. It  is  still  better,  that  he  dropped  his  pursuit  on 
finding  that  the  City  did  not  chuse  to  be  burnt  once 
a-year  for  his  amusement. 

Though  I  knew  your  nephew  talked  of  making 
you  a  visit  this  autumn,  you  surprise  me  by  thinking 
him  set  out  :  nay,  I  do  not  affirm  that  he  is  not,  yet  I 
should  think  he  would  have  let  me  know.  Moreover, 
Mrs.  Noel,  a  near  relation  of  Lady  Lucy,  and  in  con- 
stant correspondence  with  Lord  Gainsborough's  family, 
and  whom  I  see  three  or  four  times  a-week  at  the 
Duchess  of  Montrose's  at  Twickenham  Park,  knows  not 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  321 

a  word  of  his  being  gone  :  we  talk  of  him  frequently. 
Yet  my  equal  ignorance  of  Galluzzi's  History  staggers 
me.  I  can  only  suppose  that  it  lies  at  your  nephew's 
house  in  town,  and  that  he  has  not  been  in  London 
for  some  time.  I  am  impatient,  yet  I  shall  not  lay 
violent  hands  on  it  without  his  knowledge.  I  do  wish 
you  to  have  the  comfort  of  seeing  him  ;  it  will  make 
me  amends  for  waiting  for  the  House  of  Medici.  You 
will  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  Mrs.  Darner,  whom  I 
announced  in  my  last. 

There  is  a  perfect  dearth  of  all  private  news,  as 
usual  at  this  season,  when  the  campaign  is  opened 
against  poor  partridges  and  pheasants,  and  which  is  as 
hot  as  if  we  had  no  other  occasion  for  gunpowder  ! 
It  is  well,  however,  to  have  all  England  good  marksmen. 

I  forgot  to  say  that  there  is  talk  of  an  armistice 
with  Holland.  May  it  be  true  !  though  I  fear  peace  is 
not  so  catching  as  war  :  yet,  as  the  demon  of  blood  has 
breakfasted,  dined,  and  supped  so  plentifully,  I  should 
hope  he  had  gotten  a  surfeit ;  nay,  he  must  let  the 
calves  grow  up  and  be  fat,  when  he  has  devoured 
hecatombs  of  oxen,  if  he  means  to  gormandize  on. 
Adieu ! 


LETTER  CCCLX. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Oct.  3,  1781. 

There  may  be  wars  over  half  the  globe,  and  yet 
they  may  not  furnish  a  paragraph  to  the  newspapers 
every  day,  nor  matter  for  a  letter  once  a  fortnight. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  Y 


322  THE    HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Besides,  polished  nations  act  more  out  of  spite  than 
anger,  and  had  rather  civilly  murder  one  another  by  a 
consumption,  than  by  knocking  out  each  other's  brains. 
You  and  I  remember,  a  few  years  ago,  that  a  King  of 
Prussia  could  gallop  from  Bohemia  to  Dantzick,  whisk 
back  to  Silesia,  bounce  like  an  apparition  into  Saxony, 
pick  up  a  victory  here  and  a  defeat  there,  and  put 
news-writers  out  of  breath  with  following  or  hunting 
him.  France  and  Spain  are  other-guess  enemies.  They 
undermine  our  funds,  inveigle  us  into  taxes,  and  never 
offer  us  a  battle,  but  with  such  superiority  that  we 
dare  not  accept  it.  I  own  we  are  so  simple  as  to 
humour  them  in  this  unfair  warfare  !  It  costs  us  mil- 
lions to  play  a  losing  game,  without  a  soul  betting  on 
our  side.  We  verily  believe  the  combined  fleets  are 
gone  to  their  several  homes  ;  in  the  interim  we  are 
viceroys  of  the  Channel  again  during  their  pleasure  ; 
thanks  to  our  only  ally  the  Equinox !  The  fleet  from 
the  Leeward  Islands  is  arrived  safely.  You  must  send 
us  news  of  Minorca.  Our  Mediterranean  post-office  is 
a  little  out  of  repair. 

Thus,  having  no  immediate  object  of  your  curiosity 
to  satisfy,  I  shall  not  hurry  my  gazettes.  I  am  tired 
of  writing  to  say  I  have  nothing  to  write. 

Lord  Rochford*  is  dead.  The  other  Nassau,  your 
Prince  Cowper,  the  papers  say,  is  arrived  in  England  ; 

*  William-Henry  Zulcnstein  de  Nassau,  fourth  Earl  of  Rochford. 
In  1763,  his  Lordship  was  appointed  Ambassador  to  the  court  of  Spain  ; 
and  from  1768  to  1775,  filled  the  office  of  one  of  the  principal  Secretaries 
of  State,  and  in  1778  was  elected  a  Knight  of  the  Garter. — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  323 

as  great  a  stranger  as  any  outlandish  Prince,  as  the 
vulgar  call  it,  could  be. 

Wednesday  night. 

Well;  I  find  Lord  Cowper  is  not  come;  which  is  not 
extraordinary,  as  his  arrival  would  be  after  twenty 
years  of  absence.  Mr.  Beauclerk,*  whom  you  have 
seen  of  late,  I  conclude,  with  Lady  Catharine,  is  now  a 
peer  :  his  father,  Lord  Vere,  is  just  dead,  at  eighty- 
one. 


LETTER  CCCLXI. 

Berkeley  Square,  Oct.  18,  1781. 

Happening  to  come  to  town  to-day,  I  found  the 
two  sets  of  the  History  of  the  Medici.  I  hasten  to  tell 
you  so,  that  your  nephew  may  not  be  unquiet  about 
their  remaining  chez  hi  I  do  not  thank  you  but  for 
your  trouble ;  for  I  insist  on  your  telling  your  nephew 
the  price,  that  I  may  pay  him  at  his  return.  You 
know  I  have  made  a  law  against  presents,  and  it  would 
be  curious  if  I  broke  my  own  ordinance  in  a  still  more 
flagrant  instance  of  ashing/  for  them.  This  was  a 
commission,  and  do  not  imagine  that  I  would  not  only 
beg  a  present,  but  a  double  one. 

Though  I  came  to  town  on  business,  my  impatience 
was  so  great  that  I  could  not  help  dipping ;  and,  as 

*  Aubrey  Beauclerk,  second  Lord  Vere,  married,  in  1763,  Lady 
Catharine  Ponsonby,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Besborough.  The 
first  Lord  Vere  was  a  younger  son  of  the  first  Duke  of  St.  Alban's.  In 
1787,  by  the  death  of  bis  cousin  George,  grandson  of  Lord  William  Beau- 
clerk, he  became  fifth  Duke  of  St.  Alban's. 

v  2 


324  THE    HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

you  may  guess,  turned  to  the  story  of  Bianca  Capello."* 
It  is  a  little  palliated,  yet  I  think  was  clearly  an  em- 
poisonnement.  I  find,  too,  more  freedom  than  I  ex- 
pected, though  promised.  I  did  apprehend  that  the 
characters  of  Princes,  drawn  under  the  eye  of  a  Prince, 
would  be  softened  and  softened,  till  scarce  a  speck 
would  remain  ;  but,  by  that  of  Duke  Francis,  I  per- 
ceive that  the  Great-Duke  has  surmounted  many  royal 
prejudices.  The  style  seems  simple  and  natural,  and 
does  not  aspire  to  dignity  or  beauty  of  diction.  One 
term,  often  repeated,  sounds  very  vulgar.  The  author 
talks  of  the  impudenza  of  Bianca's  arts  and  conduct. 
This  is  a  very  gross  word,  in  spite  of  the  Italian  liquids 
in  the  termination.  In  England  and  France  we  are 
too  refined  to  use  so  coarse  a  phrase.  Mr.  Gibbon 
would  not  use  it  on  a  Pope  or  a  Father  of  the  Church  ; 
and  to  employ  it  on  a  lady,  and  a  sovereign  lady ! 
mercy  on  us !     What  would  Galluzzi  say  of  the  legis- 

*  The  story  of  Bianca  Capello  has  been  variously  related.  The  fol- 
lowing is  Walpole's  version,  written  in  a  cartouche  on  the  frame  of  a  paint- 
ing of  Bianca,  bought  out  of  the  Vitelli  palace  at  Florence  by  Sir 
Horace  Mann,  and  sent  to  Strawberry  Hill  :  "  Bianca  Capello,  a  Ve- 
netian lady,  who,  having  disobliged  her  family  by  marrying  a  Florentine 
banker,  was  reduced  to  maintain  him  by  washing  linen.  Francis,  the 
Great-Duke,  saw,  fell  in  love  with,  and  made  her  his  mistress,  and  her 
husband  his  minister  :  but  the  latter,  after  numberless  tyrannies,  for  which 
she  obtained  his  pardon,  and  after  repeated  ill-usage  of  her,  for  which  she 
pardoned  him,  having  murdered  a  man,  and  being  again  protected  by  her, 
the  Great-Duke  told  her,  that,  though  he  would  remit  her  husband's 
punishment,  he  would  pardon  whoever  should  kill  him.  The  relations  of 
the  deceased  murdered  the  assassin,  and  Francis  married  his  widow 
Bianca,  who  was  poisoned  with  him  at  a  banquet  by  Cardinal  Ferdinand 
afterwards  called  the  Great,  brother  and  successor  of  Duk,e  Francis." — 
Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  325 

latress  Catharine  of  Russia  \  Of  that  idol  of  modern 
philosophers  1  Whose  ascent  Voltaire  called,  only  a 
family  squabble,  with  which  he  would  not  meddle. 
This  is  the  way  in  which  the  good-breeding  of  the 
present  age  mentions  atrocious  deeds  ; 

Just  hints  a  crime,  and  hesitates  dislike. 

The  torpor  of  the  times  has  been  a  little  roused  this 
week  by  some  packets  of  events.  The  Admirals 
Graves  and  Hood  have  attacked  a  superior  French  fleet 
at  the  mouth  of  the  Chesapeak,  and  have  not  beaten 
it.  It  is  the  business  of  the  French,  not  ours,  to  say 
who  did  beat.  I  doubt  we  did  not  gain  a  naval  crown, 
and  have  lost  a  seventy-four  gun  ship.  In  return, 
Commodore  Johnstone  has  taken  four  rich  Dutchmen, 
and  our  India  fleet  is  arrived — which  Johnstone  is  not. 
However,  he  is  the  hero  of  the  day,  as  Admiral  Rodney 
has  a  little  over-gilt  his  own  statue,  *  and  Lord  Corn- 
wallis  is  trying  to  scramble  to  New  York,  without  hav- 
ing quite  conquered  America.     Lord  Hawke  f  is  dead, 

*  By  the  plunder  of  St.  Eustatia.  [The  conduct  of  Admiral  Rodney  and 
General  Vaughan,  in  seizing  and  confiscating  all  the  property  at  St.  Eus- 
tatia, had,  shortly  before  the  close  of  the  session,  been  brought  before  the 
House  of  Commons  by  Mr.  Burke.  As  the  motion,  though  it  was  only  for 
papers  necessary  for  an  inquiry  into  that  transaction,  led  to  a  censure  upon 
the  Ministry,  if  the  orders  of  confiscation  were  sent  from  hence,  and  if  not, 
to  a  censure  upon  Rodney  and  Vaughan,  it  was  rejected  upon  a  division, 
by  160  to  86.— Ed.] 

t  A  capital  naval  hero  in  the  war  of  1759.  [Of  the  glorious  victory 
obtained  in  1759,  by  Admiral  Hawke,  over  the  French  squadron  off  Qui- 
beron  Bay,  Walpole,  in  his  Memoirs  of  George  II.,  has  given  a  spirited 
description  :  "  On  the  first  notice,"  he  says,  "  that  the  French  fleet  had 
escaped  out  of  Brest,  that  prudent  and  active  officer,  Sir  Edward  Hawke, 
sailed  in  quest  of  it.     He  had  twenty-three  ships  ;  they  twenty-one.    He 


326  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

and  does  not  seem  to  have  bequeathed  his  mantle  to 
anybody. 

I  do  not  find  the  least  curiosity  stirring  about  Mi- 
norca. If  it  is  lost,  the  public  will  be  content,  should 
it  produce  a  court-martial,  which  is  found  to  be  an  ex- 
cellent soporific  on  all  our  disasters. — We  have  where- 
withal to  pass  the  winter  very  agreeably.     Adieu ! 


LETTER  CCCLXII. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Oct.  29,  1781. 

I  have  received  a  letter  to-night  from  the  younger 

came  up  with  them  on  their  own  coast  ;  and,  before  half  his  fleet  had 
joined  him,  began  the  attack.  Conflans  at  first  made  a  show  of  fighting, 
but  soon  took  the  part  of  endeavouring  to  shelter  himself  among  the  rocks, 
of  which  that  coast  was  full.  It  was  the  20th  of  November,  and  the 
shortness  of  the  day  prevented  the  total  destruction  of  the  enemy  ;  but 
neither  darkness  nor  a  dreadful  tempest  that  ensued  could  call  off  Sir 
Edward  from  pursuing  his  blow.  The  roaring  of  the  elements  was  re- 
doubled by  the  thunder  from  our  ships  ;  and  both  concurred,  in  that 
scene  of  horror,  to  put  a  period  to  the  navy  and  hopes  of  France.  Seven 
ships  of  the  line  got  into  the  river  Vilaine,  eight  more  escaped  to  different 
ports.  Conflans's  own  ship  and  another  were  run  on  shore  and  burnt. 
One  we  took.  Two  of  ours  were  lost  in  the  storm,  but  the  crews  saved. 
Lord  Howe,  who  attacked  the  Formidable,  bore  down  on  her  with  such 
violence,  that  her  prow  forced  in  his  lower  tier  of  guns.  Captain  Digby, 
in  the  Dunkirk,  received  the  fire  of  twelve  of  the  enemy's  ships,  and  lost 
not  a  mail.  Keppel's  was  full  of  water,  and  he  thought  it  sinking :  a 
sudden  squall  emptied  his  ship,  but  he  was  informed  all  his  powder  was 
wet  ;  '  Then,'  said  he,  '  I  am  sorry  I  am  safe.'  They  came  and  told  him, 
a  small  quantity  was  undamaged  :  '  Very  well,'  said  he,  '  then  attack 
again.'  Not  above  eight  of  our  ships  were  engaged  in  obtaining  that  de- 
cisive victory."  From  1765  to  1771,  Hawke  was  First  Lord  of  the 
Admiralty.  He  was  created  a  baron  in  1776.  His  monument  at  Stone- 
ham  records,  that  "  a  Prince,  unsolicited,  conferred  on  him  dignities  he 
disdained  to  ask." — En.] 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  327 

Sir  Horace,  and  answer  it  to  both  or  either,  for  this 
reason :  the  courier  may  be  detained  here,  like  the  last, 
for  several  days;  in  which  case,  nay,  without  that,  the 
nephew  will  probably  have  left  Florence  before  the 
courier  gets  back,  as  Mrs.  Noel  says  the  junior  Sir  is  to 
be  here  by  the  meeting  of  Parliament.  To  him,  if  not 
set  out,  I  must  say,  that  nothing  could  be  more  unne- 
cessary than  an  apology  to  me  for  not  advertising  me 
of  this  journey  ;  and,  having  been  so  constantly  kind 
to  me,  I  was  not  in  the  least  suspicious  of  his  wanting 
any  of  his  usual  goodness  for  me.  I  must  again 
quote  Mrs.  Noel,  who,  not  having  heard  of  his  setting- 
out  till  some  time  after  he  was  gone,  concluded,  from  its 
being  so  late  in  the  season,  that  he  would  not  go  at  all. 
Had  I  had  anything  particular  to  send,  I  should  cer- 
tainly have  informed  myself  more  carefully.  In  good 
truth,  I  never  am  diffident  of  my  friends,  nor  ever  saw 
the  smallest  ground  in  Sir  Horace  for  being  so. 

Now,  my  old  correspondent,  to  you.  I  am  charmed 
with  the  good  account  your  nephew  gives  me  of  you.  He 
says  you  have  no  complaint  but  a  little  trembling  of 
your  hand.  I,  who  am  so  nervous,  that  the  sudden 
clapping  of  a  door  makes  me  shudder  all  over,  call  that 
nothing.  I  have  lost  the  use  of  several  joints  of  my 
fingers,  and  often  fear  I  shall  lose  entirely  the  service 
of  my  right  hand.  Such  alarms,  amongst  other  reflec- 
tions, reconcile  one  to  the  parting  with  one's  whole  self; 
—  but  what  everybody  that  has  common  sense  must 
feel,  it  is  idle  to  detail. 

I  must  own,  I  do  expect  the  loss  of  Minorca.     It  is 


328  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

true,  nothing  can  be  more  bungling  than  our  enemies. 
I  have  often  thought,  and,  I  believe,  said  to  you,  that 
Russia,   Prussia,  and  Austria  must  look  with  infinite 
contempt  on   our  western   warfare.     They  divided   a 
kingdom  in  fewer  months  than  we  have  been  years 
in  fighting  drawn  battles.     They  give  us  room  to  make 
a  kind  of  figure  by  letting  us  make  head  at  all  against 
France,  Spain,  Holland,  and  America.     Yet  I  am  not 
so   sanguine   as   your   nephew.     I  think  it  would  be 
phrenzy  for  our  fleet  to  pass  the  Straits  at  this  time 
of  year  for  the  relief  of  Minorca.     Separated  they  are, 
I  believe,  the  combined  fleets ;  but  when  we  did  not 
venture  to  encounter  them  at  the  mouth  of  our  own 
channel — that  was  !  would  it  be  wise  to  invite  them 
to  reassemble  and  empound  us  in  the  Mediterranean,  or 
reduce  us  to  fight  our  way  against  their  superiority  at 
the  door  of  it  %     Clumsy  as  they  are,  I  doubt  they  are 
not  dull  to  that  degree.     Nay,  I  fear  they  do  know 
that,  even  in  this  dilatory  way,  they  will  ruin  us  by  the 
expense  we  are  at.     I  should  have  thought  they  might 
have  done  their  business  sooner,  unless  they  look  on 
our  exhausting  ourselves  as  more  permanent  destruc- 
tion.    Little  as  they  have  done  for  America,   which 
shows  how  injudicious  our  perseverance  has  been,  we 
are  almost  at  the  last  gasp  there,   and   tremble  for 
Lord  Cornwallis.     I  should  not  say  so  much  as  this 
but  by  your  own  courier  ;  for  I  have  too  much  fierte 
to  allow  to  enemies  even  what  they  know.     We  have 
no  particular  news  at  present,  and   I  will  not  make 
my   letter  longer   than   is   necessary  ;    as   it  is  past 


TO    SIR   HORACE  MANN.  329 

midnight,  and  this  must  go  to  town  early  to-morrow 
morning. 

I  have  almost  got  through  the  first  volume  of  the 
Medici.  In  spite  of  the  beauty  of  the  Italian  lan- 
guage, the  style  appears  very  meagre.  One  must  call 
it  simplicity,  if  one  would  commend  it.  The  sincerity 
is  considerable  enough  to  make  the  Medici  shudder 
in  their  pompous  tombs  in  St.  Lorenzo.  What  a  severe 
tyrant  was  their  great  Cosmo  !  Abbe,  indeed  !  But  how 
facile  is  address  when  it  stops  at  nothing  !  Or  is  it  art  to 
stab  and  poison  ?  Then  assassins  are  great  politicians. 
The  work,  to  be  sure,  does  unfold  a  horrid  scene  of 
popes  and  princes ;  but  I  don't  know  how — I  don't 
know  what  I  expected  :  all  that  scene  of  villainous 
ambition  is  but  cold  at  this  distance  of  time  ;  one  is 
shocked,  never  interested.  At  least,  the  historian 
wanted  ability  to  move  the  passions;  or,  perhaps,  it 
was  impossible  to  excite  anything  but  horror,  when  he 
does  not  seem  amidst  all  his  materials  to  have  dis- 
covered one  good  character. 

The  only  person  for  whom  I  have  conceived  an 
esteem  is  for  the  Sovereign  himself  who  commanded 
the  work.  He  must  mean  to  be  a  good  prince,  when 
he  enjoins  the  truth  to  be  so  amply  told  of  his  pre- 
decessors."" He  must  be  aware  of  the  reflections  that 
will  be  made  hereafter,  if  he  is  not. 

*  The  appearance  of  Galluzzi's  History  of  the  House  of  Medici,  which 
was  undertaken  at  the  express  desire  of  the  Great-Duke  Leopold,  gave 
rise  to  strong  remonstrances,  on  the  part  of  the  Courts  of  Spain,  Naples, 
Parma,  and  especially  of  the  Holy  See,  whose  atrocities  he  had  fearlessly 
exposed. — En. 


330  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

The  Duchess  of  Gloucester  has  ordered  me  to  thank 
you  particularly  for  a  very  obliging  letter  that  she 
has  received  from  you  :  she  does  not  say  on  what 
occasion.  They  are  at  Weymouth,  and  greatly  happy 
at  having  lately  inoculated  Prince  William  as  success- 
fully as  they  could  possibly  wish.  Adieu  !  dear  sir,  or 
sirs. 


LETTER  CCCLXIII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Nov.  26,  1781. 

Your  letter  of  the  10th,  which  I  have  received 
to-night,  has  been  very  cordial  to  me,  as  Mrs.  Noel  and 
I  have  been  very  uneasy  at  not  seeing  your  nephew, 
who  used  to  have  the  two  qualities  of  punctuality  and 
flying  ;  but  I  see  he  cannot  execute  the  latter  when 
his  wings  are  wetted.  I  left  Twickenham  this  morn- 
ing ;  but,  though  the  Duchess  of  Montrose  and  Mrs. 
Noel  are  to  come  to  town  on  Wednesday,  I  shall  send 
a  line  to  the  latter,  to  let  her  know  the  accidents  your 
nephew  experienced  at  setting  out. 

I  am  delighted  that  Mrs.  Darner  and  you  are  de- 
lighted with  each  other.  I  know  it  mutually,  for 
Lady  Ailesbury  received  a  letter  this  evening  from 
Lady  William  Campbell,  who  told  her  so.  Thank  you 
a  million  of  times  for  your  kindness  to  them.  If  you 
have  time  to  know  Mrs.  Darner,  what  will  you  not 
think  of  her  \  But  I  must  turn  to  a  subject  that  will 
not  be  so  pleasing  to  you. 

An  account  came  yesterday  that  could  not  but  be 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  331 

expected,  that  Washington  and  the  French  have  made 
Lord  Oornwallis  and  his  whole  army  prisoners.  I  do 
not  know  what  others  think,  but  to  me  it  seems  fortu- 
nate that  they  were  not  all  cut  to  pieces.  It  is  not 
heroic  perhaps,  but  I  am  glad,  that  this  disaster  arriv- 
ing before  our  fleet  reached  the  Chesapeak,  it  turned 
back  to  New  York  without  attacking  the  French  fleet, 
who  are  above  three  to  two,  thirty-seven  to  twenty- 
three.  This  is  all  I  know  yet  ;  and  yet  this  comes  at 
an  untoward  moment ;  for  the  Parliament  meets  to- 
morrow, and  it  puts  the  Speech  and  speeches  a  little 
into  disorder.  * 

*  Official  intelligence  of  the  surrender  of  the  British  army  at  York- 
town  to  the  American  forces  under  General  Washington  had  reached 
town  on  the  preceding  day.  The  state  of  the  public  mind  at  this  moment 
is  thus  described,  in  a  letter  from  Sir  Samuel  Romilly  to  a  friend  : 
"  Everybody  has  been  in  great  anxiety  for  the  army  under  Lord  Corn- 
wallis.  His  situation  was  very  critical  :  an  army,  vastly  superior  in  num- 
bers to  his  own,  surrounded  him  on  every  side  ;  and  no  person  seemed  to 
doubt  that,  unless  Clinton  arrived  in  time  to  relieve  him  before  his  provi- 
sions were  consumed,  he  would  be  obliged  to  surrender  up  himself  and 
his  army  prisoners,  and  the  disgrace  at  Saratoga  would  be  renewed  in  the 
Chesapeak.  It  was  thought,  however,  that  Clinton  might  reach  the 
Chesapeak  before  it  was  too  late  ;  and  much  was  then  expected  from  the 
valour  of  two  such  British  armies  against  forces  so  unnaturally  allied  to- 
gether, and  so  unaccustomed  to  act  in  conjunction,  as  those  of  America 
and  France.  At  any  rate,  it  was  supposed,  that  the  event  must  be  quite 
decisive  of  the  war  ;  and  the  public  was  eager  and  burning  with  impa- 
tience to  hear  whether  America  was  to  return  to  her  dependence,  or  be 
dissevered  from  us  for  ever.  In  this  uncertainty,  the  day  on  which  the 
Parliament  was  to  meet  drew  near.  The  King's  speech  was  prepared,  had 
been  read  at  the  Council,  and  was  to  have  been  delivered  to  Parliament  the 
very  next  day,  when  news  arrived  that  Cornwallis  and  all  his  soldiers 
were  prisoners.  This  report,  which  came  with  such  authority  as  not  to 
admit  of  any  doubt,  filled  many  persons  with  the  deepest  consternation  ; 
they  saw  blasted  all  our  hopes  of  ever  attaining  what,  in  the  course  of  so 
many  years,  we  had  pursued  at  the  cost  of  so  much  blood  and  treasure  : 


332  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

I  cannot  put  on  the  face  of  the  day,  and  act  grief. 
Whatever  puts  an  end  to  the  American  war  will  save 
the  lives  of  thousands  —  millions  of  money  too.  If 
glory  compensates  such  sacrifices,  I  never  heard  that 
disgraces  and  disappointments  were  palliatives  ;  but  I 
will  not  descant,  nor  is  it  right  to  vaunt  of  having 
been  in  the  right  when  one's  country's  shame  is  the 
solution  of  one's  prophecy,  nor  would  one  join  in  the 
triumph  of  her  enemies.  Details  you  will  hear  from 
France  sooner  than  I  can  send  them ;  but  I  will  write 
again  the  moment  I  know  any  thing  material.  I  am 
sorry  your  nephew  is  not  arrived  ;  who,  by  being  in 
Parliament  and  in  the  world,  would  be  sooner  and 
better  informed  than  I,  who  stir  little  out  of  my  own 
house,  and  have  no  political  connections,  nor  scarce 
a  wish  but  to  die  in  peace. 


LETTER  CCCLXIV. 

Nov.  29,  1781. 

Your  nephew   is   arrived,    as   he   has    told   you 

others,  instead  of  turning  their  views  back,  looked  forward  to  the  evils  we 
had  escaped,  and  thought  we  had  more  reason  to  rejoice  at  an  event 
which  had  delivered  us  from  a  war  so  destructive  to  the  nation  ;  an  event 
which,  by  happening  thus  early  (for  they  considered  it  as  inevitable  at 
some  time  or  other),  had  spared  us  many  millions  of  debt,  and  the  loss  of 
many  gallant  armies,  which  the  Ministers  would  certainly  have  sacrificed 
in  the  pursuit  of  a  favourite,  but  unattainable  object.  But  none  (at  least 
none  that  I  have  heard  of)  saw  this  calamity  with  the  terrors  with  which 
it  has  since  been  heightened  ;  for  none  imagined  that,  after  another  so 
awful  lesson,  there  could  be  any  talk  of  continuing  our  inauspicious  war 
on  America."     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  182. — Eo. 


TO    SIR    1IOKACK    MANN.  :W3 

himself;  the  sight  of  him,  for  he  called  on  me  the 
next  morning,  was  more  than  ordinarily  welcome, 
though  your  letter  of  the  10th,  which  I  received  the 
night  before,  had  dispelled  many  of  my  fears.  I  will 
now  unfold  them  to  you.  A  pacquet-boat  from  Ostend 
was  lost  last  week,  and  your  nephew  was  named  for 
one  of  the  passengers.  As  Mrs.  Noel  had  expected 
him  for  a  fortnight,  I  own  my  apprehensions  were 
strengthened  ;  but  I  will  say  no  more  on  a  dissipated 
panic.  However,  this  incident  and  his  half-wreck  at 
Lerici  will,  I  hope,  prevent  him  for  the  future  from 
staying  with  you  so  late  in  the  year  ;  and  I  see  by 
your  letter  that  you  agree  with  me,  of  which  I  should 
be  sure  though  you  had  not  said  so. 

I  mentioned  on  Tuesday  the  captivity  of  Lord 
Cornwallis  and  his  army,  the  Columbus  who  was  to 
bestow  America  on  us  again.  A  second  army  taken 
in  a  drag-net  is  an  uncommon  event,'55'  and  happened 
but  once  to  the  Romans,  who  sought  adventures  every- 
Avhere.  We  have  not  lowered  our  tone  on  this  new 
disgrace,  though  I  think  we  shall  talk  no  more  of  in- 

*  Dr.  Franklin,  in  a  letter  written  on  the  26th  of  November  to  Mr. 
Adams,  makes  the  same  reflection  :  "  It  is  a  rare  circumstance,"  he  says, 
"  and  scarce  to  be  met  with  in  history,  that  in  one  war  two  armies  should 
be  taken  prisoners  completely,  not  a  man  in  either  escaping.  It  is  an- 
other singular  circumstance,  that  an  expedition  so  complex,  formed  of 
armies  of  different  nations  and  of  land  and  sea  forces,  should  with  such 
perfect  concord  be  assembled  from  different  places  by  land  and  water, 
form  their  junction  punctually,  without  the  least  retard  by  cross  accidents 
of  wind  or  weather,  or  interruption  from  the  enemy  ;  and  that  the  army 
which  was  their  object  should  in  the  mean  time  have  the  goodness  to  quit 
a  situation  from  whence  it  might  have  escaped,  and  place  itself  in  another 
whence  any  escape  was  impossible." — Ed. 


334  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

sistiug  on  implicit  submission,  which  would  rather  lie 
a  gasconade  than  firmness.  In  fact,  there  is  one  very 
unlucky  circumstance  already  come  out,  which  must 
drive  every  American,  to  a  man,  from  ever  calling 
himself  our  friend.  By  the  tenth  article  of  the  capi- 
tulation, Lord  Cornwallis  demanded  that  the  loyal 
Americans  in  his  army  should  not  be  punished.  This 
was  flatly  refused,  and  he  has  left  them  to  be  hanged.* 
I  doubt  no  vote  of  Parliament  will  be  able  to  blanch 
such  a — such  a — I  don't  know  what  the  word  is  for  it. 
He  must  get  his  uncle  the  Archbishop  to  christen  it. 
There  is  no  name  for  it  in  any  Pagan  vocabulary.  I 
suppose  it  will  have  a  patent  for  being  called  Neces- 
sity. Well !  there  ends  another  volume  of  the  Ame- 
rican war.  It  looks  a  little  as  if  the  history  of  it 
would  be  all  we  should  have  for  it,  except  forty  mil- 
lions of  debt,  and  three  other  wars  that  have  grown 
out  of  it,  and  that  do  not  seem  so  near  to  a  conclu- 
sion. They  say  that  Monsieur  de  Maurepas,  who  is 
dying,  being  told  that  the  Due  de  Lauzun  had  brought 
the  news  of  Lord  Cornwallis's  surrender,  said,  from 
Racine's  Mithridate  I  think, 

*  Lord  Cornwallis  strove  earnestly  to  obtain  some  favourable  conditions 
on  behalf  of  the  inhabitants  of  York-town  and  other  Americans  who 
were  under  the  protection,  as  they  had  shared  the  fortune,  of  the  British 
army  ;  but  they  were  refused,  on  the  ground  of  their  being  civil  matters, 
which  did  not  come  within  the  authority  of  the  military  commanders. 
He,  however,  to  extricate  those  Americans  who  would  have  been  exposed 
to  imminent  danger,  made  it  a  condition,  that  the  sloop  which  was  to 
convey  his  despatches  to  New  York  should  pass  without  search  or  examin- 
ation, he  being  only  answerable  that  the  number  of  persons  she  conveyed 
should  be  accounted  for  as  prisoners  of  war  upon  exchange. — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  :>:'>'> 

"  Mos  derniers  regards  out  vu  fiiir  lea  Romaina."* 

How  Lord  Chatham  will  frown  when  they  meet !  for, 
since  I  began  my  letter,  the  papers  say  that  Manrepas 
is  dead.f  The  Due  de  Nivernois,  it  is  said,  is  likely 
to  succeed  him  as  Minister  ;  which  is  probable,  as  they 
were  brothers-in-law  and  friends,  and  the  one  would 
naturally  recommend  the  other.  Perhaps,  not  for 
long  ;  as  the  Queen's  influence  gains  ground. 

The  warmth  in  the  House  of  Commons  is  prodigi- 
ously rekindled  ;\  but  Lord  Cornwallis's  fate  has  cost 

*  Sir  Nathaniel  Wraxall,  who  happened  to  dine  with  Lord  George 
Sackville,  then  one  of  the  Secretaries  of  State,  on  the  day  upon  which 
the  intelligence  of  the  surrender  of  Lord  Cornwallis's  army  reached  Go- 
vernment, relates  the  following  anecdote  : — "  The  party,  nine  in  number, 
sat  down  to  table  ;  Lord  George  appeared  serious,  though  he  manifested 
no  discomposure.  After  his  three  daughters  had  withdrawn,  his  lordship 
acquainted  us,  that  information  had  just  arrived  from  Paris  of  the  old 
Count  de  Maurepas  lying  at  the  point  of  death.  '  It  would  grieve  me,' 
said  I,  '  to  finish  my  career,  however  far  advanced  in  years,  were  I 
Minister  of  France,  before  I  had  witnessed  the  termination  of  this 
great  contest  between  England  and  America.'  '  He  has  survived  to  see 
that  event,'  replied  Lord  George,  with  some  agitation.  Utterly  unsuspect- 
ing what  had  happened  beyond  the  Atlantic,  '  My  meaning,'  said  I, 
'  is,  that  if  I  were  the  Count  de  Maurepas,  I  should  wish  to  live  long 
enough  to  behold  the  final  issue  of  the  war  in  Virginia.'  '  He  has  sur- 
vived to  witness  it  completely,'  answered  Lord  George  ;  '  the  army  has 
surrendered,  and  you  may  peruse  the  particulars  of  the  capitulation  in 
that  paper  ;'  taking,  at  the  same  time,  one  from  his  pocket,  which  he 
delivered  into  my  hand,  not  without  visible  emotion."  Hist.  Mem.  vol. 
ii.  p.  437.— Ed. 

+  Count  de  Maurepas  died  at  Versailles,  in  the  month  of  November, 
and  in  the  eighty-first  year  of  his  age  ;  holding,  at  that  very  advanced 
period  of  life,  in  a  season  of  great  national  exertion  and  of  a  perilous  and 
hard-fought  foreign  war,  the  arduous  office  of  Prime  Minister  of  France. 
—Ed. 

|  The  King  had  opened  the  Session  on  the  27th.  "  So  much  had  the 
expected  debates,"  writes  Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  in  the  letter  quoted  in  a 
recent  note,  "  roused  the  attention  of  men,  that  the  lobby  of  the  House  of 


336  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

the  Administration  no  ground  there.  The  names  of 
most  eclat  in  the  Opposition  are  two  names  to  which 
those  walls  have  been  much  accustomed  at  the  same 
period — Charles  Fox""  and  William  Pitt,  second  son 
of  Lord  Chatham,  f     Eloquence  is  the  only  one  of  our 

Commons  was  full  long  before  the  Speaker  arrived  ;  nor  was  it  without 
difficulty  he  could  make  his  way  into  the  House.  The  moment  he  had 
entered,  the  people  crowded  after  him  ;  it  was  impossible  to  shut  the 
doors,  and  the  gallery  was  in  a  moment  filled  with  a  promiscuous  crowd. 
I,  among  the  rest,  had  the  good  fortune  to  get  a  seat.  As  you  have  already 
seen  the  King's  speech,  you  have  observed  that,  after  boasting  of  successes 
in  the  East  Indies,  announcing  the  disaster  in  Virginia,  and  declaring  his 
resolution  to  prosecute  the  war  with  vigour,  he  goes  on  to  involve  the  future 
conduct  of  the  war  in  darkness  and  uncertainty.  Let  me  recall  his  words 
to  you,  for  they  are  very  material  :  '  I  should  not  answer  the  trust  com- 
mitted to  the  sovereign  of  a  free  people,  &c.,  if  I  consented  to  sacrifice, 
either  to  my  own  desire  of  peace,  or  to  their  temporary  ease  and  relief, 
those  essential  rights  and  permanent  interests,  upon  the  maintenance  and 
preservation  of  which  the  future  strength  and  security  of  this  country 
must  ever  principally  depend  ; '  and  afterwards,  '  The  late  misfortune  calls 
loudly  for  your  firm  concurrence  and  assistance,  to  frustrate  thedesigns  of 
our  enemies,  equally  prejudicial  to  the  real  interests  of  America  and  to 
those  of  Great  Britain.'  In  both  Houses,  all  the  speakers  on  the  side  of 
Opposition  understood  these  words  to  intimate  that  the  war  in  America 
was  still  to  be  carried  on  ;  and  the  Address,  which  echoed  them  back  to 
the  Throne,  they  understood  as  pledging  the  House  to  give  their  sanction 
to  that  measure."     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  184. — En. 

*  Mr.  Fox  had,  on  the  first  day  of  the  Session,  after  a  long  and  impas- 
sioned speech,  moved,  by  way  of  amendment  to  the  proposed  Address,  to 
pledge  the  House  to  apply  themselves  with  united  hearts  to  propose  and 
digest  such  counsels  as  might  in  this  crisis  excite  the  efforts,  point  the 
arms,  and,  by  a  total  change  of  system,  command  the  confidence  of  the 
nation.     It  was  rejected,  on  a  division,  by  218  to  129. — Ed. 

t  Upon  the  report  of  the  Address  on  the  King's  speech,  William 
Pitt,  the  son  of  Chatham,  addressed  the  House  of  Commons  for  the 
fourth  time  ;  arguing  strongly  and  powerfully  against  persevering  in  the 
American  war,  and  inveighing  with  great  severity  against  the  incapacity 
of  Ministers,  who,  by  their  fatal  system,  had  led  the  country,  step  bv 
step,  to  the  most  calamitous  and  disgraceful  situation, — a  situation  which 
threatened  the   final    dissolution   of  the   empire,   if   not    prevented  by 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  337 

brilliant  qualities  that  docs  not  seem  to  have  degene- 
rated rapidly — but  I  shall  leave  debates  to  your  ne- 
phew, now  an  ear- witness  :  I  could  only  re-echo 
newspapers.      Is   it  not   another  odd   coincidence  of 

timely,  wise,  and  vigorous  efforts.  "  The  applause  in  the  House,"  says  the 
Bishop  of  Winchester,  "  was  so  great  when  Mr.  Pitt  sat  down,  that  it  was 
some  time  hefore  Mr.  Dundas,  the  Lord  Advocate,  who  rose  imme- 
diately, could  he  heard.  He  began  by  saying,  that  '  the  lustre  of  abili- 
ties and  splendour  of  eloquence  displayed  by  the  honourable  gentleman 
who  spoke  last,  having  proved  that  an  astonishing  extent  and  force  of 
understanding  had  descended  in  an  hereditary  line,  from  a  parent  un- 
commonly gifted,  to  a  son  equally  endowed  with  all  the  fire,  and  strength, 
and  grace  of  oratory,  it  did  not  at  all  surprise  him,  that  an  involuntary 
emotion  of  appaluse  should  burst  out  on  the  conclusion  of  the  speech  the 
House  had  just  heard,  and  that  each  gentleman  should  be  anxious  to 
communicate  to  his  neighbour  his  approbation  of  it.'  Mr.  Fox  after- 
wards noticed  the  universal  admiration  the  speech  had  excited  ;  and  Mr. 
Courtenay  said,  that  Mr.  Pitt's  splendid  diction,  manly  elocution,  brilliant 
periods,  and  pointed  logic,  conveyed  in  a  torrent  of  rapid  and  impressive 
eloquence,  brought  strongly  to  his  recollection  that  great  and  able 
statesman,  whose  memory  every  grateful  and  generous  Briton  revered." 
Life,  vol.  i.  p.  44.  Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  in  alluding  to  this  speech,  says, 
"  Applause  was  echoed  from  one  side  of  the  House  to  the  other  ;  and 
Mr.  Fox,  in  an  exaggerated  strain  of  panegyric,  said  he  would  no  longer 
lament  the  loss  of  Lord  Chatham,  for  he  was  again  living  in  his  son, 
with  all  his  virtues  and  all  his  talents."  "  He  studies,"  adds  Sir  Samuel, 
"  for  the  bar,  and  to  whatever  he  applies  himself,  whether  to  law  or  poli- 
tics, he  is  likely  soon  to  take  precedence  of  all  our  orators ;  he  possesses 
those  talents  which  are  said  to  have  been  peculiar  to  his  father — warmth 
of  utterance,  command  of  language,  strength  and  closeness  of  reasoning, 
and,  above  all,  an  energy  and  irresistible  vigour  of  eloquence." 

Mr.  Pitt,  at  the  general  election  in  the  autumn  of  1780,  was  an  un- 
successful candidate  for  the  University  of  Cambridge  ;  but  in  the  January 
following  he  was  returned  for  the  borough  of  Appleby.  During  the 
winter  of  that  year  he  was  an  habitual  frequenter  of  the  club  at  Goose- 
tree's,  where  the  intimacy  which  he  had  formed  at  Cambridge  and  in 
the  gallery  of  the  House  of  Commons  with  Mr.  Wilberforcc,  ripened 
into  friendship.  "  He  was,"  says  the  youthful  member  for  Hull,  "  the, 
wittiest  man  I  ever  knew,  and,  what  was  quite  peculiar  to  himself,  had  at 
all  times  his  wit  under  entire  controul.  Others  appeared  struck  by  the 
unwonted  association  of  brilliant  images  ;  but  every  possible  combination 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  Z 


338  THE  HON.    HORACE  WALPOLE 

events,  that  while  the  father  Laurens  is  prisoner 
to  Lord  Cornwallis  as  Constable  of  the  Tower,  the 
son  Laurens  signed  the  capitulation  by  which  Lord 
Cornwallis  became  prisoner  %  *  It  is  said  too,  I  don't 
know  if  truly,  that  this  capitulation  and  that  of  Sa- 
ratoga were  signed  on  the  same  anniversary.     These 

of  ideas  seemed  always  present  to  his  mind,  and  he  could  at  once  pro- 
duce whatever  he  desired.  I  was  one  of  those  who  met  to  spend  an 
evening  in  memory  of  Shakspeare  at  the  Boar's  Head,  Eastcheap. 
Many  professed  wits  were  present ;  but  Pitt  was  the  most  amusing  of  the 
party,  and  the  readiest  and  the  most  apt  in  the  required  allusions.  He 
entered  with  the  same  energy  into  all  our  different  amusements  :  we 
played  a  good  deal  at  Goosetree's,  and  I  well  remember  the  intense  ear- 
nestness which  he  displayed  when  joining  in  those  games  of  chance. 
He  perceived  their  increasing  fascination,  and  soon  after  suddenly  aban- 
doned them  for  ever."  Life,  vol.  i.  p.  17.  Mr.  Pitt  took  his  seat  in  the 
House  of  Commons  on  the  23rd  of  January,  1781,  and  made  his  first 
speech  on  the  26th  of  February,  upon  the  second  reading  of  Mr.  Burke's 
bill  for  an  economical  reform  in  the  Civil  List  establishment.  He  spoke 
for  the  second  time  on  the  31st  of  May,  in  reply  to  Lord  North,  on  the 
bill  for  appointing  Commissioners  to  examine  the  Public  Accounts. 
"  The  papers  will  have  informed  you,"  wrote  Mr.  Wilberforce,  on  the 
9th  of  June,  to  a  friend,  "  how  Mr.  William  Pitt,  second  son  of  the  late 
Lord  Chatham,  has  distinguished  himself:  he  comes  out,  as  his  father 
did,  a  ready-made  orator,  and  I  doubt  not  but  that  I  shall  one  day  or 
other  see  him  the  first  man  in  the  country.  His  famous  speech,  however, 
delivered  the  other  day,  did  not  convince  me,  and  I  stayed  in  with  the  old 
fat  fellow  [Lord  North]  :  by  the  way,  he  grows  every  day  fatter  ;  so, 
where  he  will  end,  I  know  not."     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  22. — -Ed. 

*  The  land-forces  became  prisoners  to  America  ;  but  the  seamen,  with 
the  ships  and  furniture,  were  assigned  to  Count  de  Grasse,  as  a  compli- 
ment to  and  return  for  the  French  naval  assistance.  It  was  certainly 
remarkable,  that  the  commissioner  appointed  by  the  Americans  to  settle 
the  terms,  and  who  himself  drew  up  the  articles  of  the  capitulation,  by 
which  a  British  army  became  prisoners  to  his  country,  was  Colonel  Lau- 
rens, son  of  Mr.  Laurens,  late  President  of  the  Congress,  who  was  then  a 
close  prisoner  in  the  Tower  of  London.  The  Viscount  de  Noailles  was 
the  commissioner  appointed  on  the  side  of  France,  to  act  in  conjunction 
with  Colonel  Laurens. —  Ed. 


*     TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  330 

are  certainly  the  speculations  of  an  idle  man,  and  the 
more  trifling  when  one  considers  the  moment.  But 
alas  !  what  would  my  most  grave  speculations  avail  % 
From  the  hour  that  fatal  egg,  the  Stamp  Act,  was  laid, 
I  disliked  it,  and  all  the  vipers  hatched  from  it.  I 
now  hear  many  curse  it,  who  fed  the  vermin  with 
poisonous  weeds.  Yet  the  guilty  and  the  innocent 
rue  it  equally  hitherto  !  I  would  not  answer  for  what 
is  to  come !  Seven  years  of  miscarriages  may  sour 
the  sweetest  tempers,  and  the  most  sweetened.  Oh ! 
where  is  the  Dove  with  the  olive-branch  3  Long  ago 
I  told  you  that  you  and  I  might  not  live  to  see  an  end 
of  the  American  war.  It  is  very  near  its  end  in- 
deed now — its  consequences  are  far  from  a  conclusion. 
In  some  respects,  they  are  commencing  a  new  date, 
which  will  reach  far  beyond  us.  I  desire  not  to  pry 
into  that  book  of  futurity.  Could  I  finish  my  course 
in  peace — but  one  must  take  the  chequered  scenes  of 
life  as  they  come.  What  signifies  whether  the  ele- 
ments are  serene  or  turbulent,  when  a  private  old  man 
slips  away  ?  What  has  he  and  the  world's  concerns 
to  do  with  one  another  ?  He  may  sigh  for  his  coun- 
try, and  babble  about  it ;  but  he  might  as  well  sit 
quiet  and  read  or  tell  old  stories  ;  the  past  is  as  im- 
portant to  him  as  the  future. 

Dec.  3rd. 

I  had  not  sealed  my  letter,  as  it  cannot  set  out  till 
to-morrow  ;  and  since  I  wrote  it  I  have  received  yours, 
of  the  20th  of  November,  by  your  courier. 

I  congratulate  you  on  the  success  of  your  attempts, 

z  2 


340  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

and  admire  the  heroic  refusal  of  the  General.*  I  shall 
certainly  obey  you,  and  not  mention  it.  Indeed,  it 
would  not  easily  be  believed  here,  where  as  many 
pence  are  irresistible. 

Your  nephew  told  me  that  Mrs.  Darner  was  hasting 
to  Rome.  I  am  glad  that,  as  far  as  you  could  in  so 
short  a  time,  you  did  not  find  that  I  had  exaggerated  ; 
but  I  know  her  shyness  too  well  not  to  be  sure  that 
you  could  not  discover  a  thousandth  part  of  her  un- 
derstanding. 

Your  Mr.  Terney  was  an  ostentatious  fool,  of  whom 
there  is  no  more  to  be  said.  Formerly,  when  such 
simpletons  did  not  know  what  to  do  with  their  wealth, 
they  bequeathed  it  to  the  Church  ;   and  then,  perhaps, 

*  General  Murray,  Governor  of  Minorca,  which  was  besieged  by  the 
Spaniards,  was  offered  a  vast  bribe  by  the  Due  de  Crillon,  the  Spanish 
commander,  to  give  up  Fort  St.  Philip,  but  spurned  at  the  offer.  ["  The 
eagerness  of  Spain  to  gain  possession  of  this  island  was,"  says 
the  Annual  Register,  "  so  excessive,  that  the  Court  seems  to  have  de- 
parted in  some  degree  from  that  dignity  of  character  which  should  ever 
be  inseparably  united  with  royalty,  by  an  insidious  endeavour,  through 
the  medium  of  an  immense  bribe,  to  corrupt  the  fidelity  of  the  Governor. 
Nor  did  the  Due  de  Crillon  seem  entirely  to  pay  a  proper  attention  to  his 
own  rank  and  reputation,  nor  to  preserve  a  due  recollection  of  the  honour 
and  distinction  entailed  upon  his  family  by  the  peculiar  virtue  of  an  illus- 
trious ancestor,  when  he  descended  to  become  the  instrument  in  such  a 
business.  General  Murray  treated  the  insult  with  a  mixture  of  that 
haughty  disdain  incident  to  the  consciousness  of  an  ancient  line  and 
illustrious  ancestry,  and  with  the  generous  indignation  and  stern  resent- 
ment of  a  veteran  soldier,  who  feels  himself  wounded  in  the  tenderest 
part,  by  an  insidious  attempt  upon,  and  consequently  suspicion  of,  that  ho- 
nour which  he  had  set  up  as  the  great  object  and  idol  of  his  life."  Ge- 
neral the  Honourable  James  Murray  was  the  brother  of  John,  third  Duke 
of  Atholl.  He  represented  the  county  of  Perth  in  five  parliaments  ;  and 
at  his  death,  in  1794,  was  a  Major-General  in  the  army,  and  Governor 
of  Fort  William  in  Scotland.— Ed.] 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  341 

one   got  a  good  picture   for  an  altar,  or  a  painted 
window. 

Don't  trouble  yourself  about  the  third  set  of  Galuzzi. 
They  arc  to  be  |had  here  now,  and  those  for  whom  I 
intended  them  can  buy  them.  I  have  not  made  so 
much  progress  as  I  intended,  and  have  not  yet  quite 
finished  the  second  volume.  I  detest  Cosmo  the  Great. 
I  am  sorry,  either  that  he  was  so  able  a  man,  or  so 
successful  a  man.  When  tyrants  are  great  men,  they 
should  miscarry  ;  if  they  are  fools,  they  will  miscarry 
of  course.  Pray,  is  there  any  picture  of  Camilla  Mar- 
telli,  Cosmo's  last  wife  1  I  had  never  heard  of  her. 
The  dolt,  his  son,  I  find,  used  her  ill,  and  then  did 
the  same  thing.  Our  friend,  Bianca  Capello,  it  seems, 
was  a  worthless  creature.  I  don't  expect  much  enter- 
tainment but  from  the  life  of  Ferdinand  the  Great. 
It  is  true,  I  have  dipped  into  the  others,  particularly 
into  the  story  of  Cosmo  the  Third's  wife,  of  whom  I 
had  read  much  in  French  Memoires,  and  into  that  of 
John  Gaston,  which  was  so  fresh  when  I  was  at  Flo- 
rence ;  but  as  the  author,  in  spite  of  the  Great-Duke's 
injunctions,  has  tried  to  palliate  some  of  the  worst 
imputations  on  Cosmo  and  his  son  Ferdinand,  so  he 
has  been  mighty  modest  about  the  Caprean  amours  of 
John  Gaston  and  his  elder  brother.  *     Adieu !     I  have 

*  Prince  Ferdinand,  who  died  in  1713,  in  the  lifetime  of  his  father, 
Cosmo  the  Third.  Sir  Horace  Mann,  who  personally  knew  John  Gaston, 
the  last  Grand-Duke  of  the  Medicean  line,  is  stated  by  Sir  Nathaniel 
Wraxall  to  have  related  to  him  at  Florence,  in  the  year  1779,  the  fol- 
lowing particulars  :  "  John  Gaston  was  one  of  the  most  superior  and 


342  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

been  writing  a  volume  here  myself.  Pray,  remember 
to  answer  me  about  Camilla  Martelli. 

P.S.  Is  there  any  china  left  in  the  Great-Duke's 
collection,  made  by  Duke  Francis  the  First  himself? 
Perhaps  it  was  lately  sold  with  what  was  called  the 
refuse  of  the  wardrobe ;  whence  I  hear  some  charming 

accomplished  men  the  present  century  has  witnessed,  if  his  immoderate 
pursuit  of  pleasures  had  not  enervated  his  mind  and  debilitated  his  frame. 
He  became,  long  before  his  death,  incapable  of  continuing  his  family ; 
but  that  inability  did  not  occasion  its  extinction.  A  sort  of  fatality 
seemed  to  hang  over  the  House  of  Medicis,  and  to  render  ineffectual  all 
the  measures  adopted  for  its  prolongation.  When  the  fact  was  ascer- 
tained, that  John  Gaston  could  not  perpetuate  his  line,  the  Cardinal  Hip- 
polito  de  Medicis,  his  uncle,  was  selected  for  that  purpose  ;  a  dispensation 
from  his  ecclesiastical  vows  being  previously  obtained  from  the  Papal 
See.  The  only  and  the  indispensable  object  of  the  marriage  being  the 
attainment  of  heirs  male  to  the  Grand  Duchy,  in  order  to  prevent  its 
seizure  by  foreign  violence,  or  its  incorporation  with  the  Austrian, 
French,  or  Spanish  monarchies,  all  Italy  was  searched  in  order  to  find  a 
young  and  handsome  Princess  from  whom  might  be  expected  a  nume- 
rous family.  A  Princess  of  Mirandola,  on  whom  the  selection  fell, 
seemed  to  unite  every  requisite  qualification.  The  nuptials  were  so- 
lemnized ;  and  the  bridegroom  being  of  a  feeble  constitution,  as  well  as 
advanced  in  life,  it  was  plainly  insinuated  to  the  lady,  that,  for  reasons  of 
state  necessity,  she  must  produce  an  heir.  The  most  amiable  youths 
and  pages  about  the  Court  were  purposely  thrown  in  her  way,  and  every 
facility  was  furnished  that  might  conduce  to  the  accomplishment  of  the 
object  ;  but  so  sacredly  did  she  observe  her  marriage  vow,  that  no  seduc- 
tions could  make  an  impression  on  her,  and  she  remained  without  issue. 
Her  husband  died,  and  was  followed  by  John  Gaston.  France  having 
acquired  Lorraine,  and  Don  Carlos  being  made  sovereign  of  Naples,  Tus- 
cany was  delivered  over  by  the  great  Continental  powers  as  a  conquered 
or  forfeited  country  to  Francis,  Duke  of  Lorraine  ;  but,  no  sooner  had 
these  events  taken  place,  than  Hippolito's  widow,  who  had  surmounted 
every  temptation  to  inconstancy  during  his  life,  gave  the  reins  to  her  in- 
clinations, and  brought  into  the  world  two  or  three  children  within  a  few 
years.  It  was  thus  that  Florence,  the  repository  of  so  many  invaluable 
monuments  of  Greek  and  Roman  sculpture,  collected  during  successive 
centuries,  together  with  the  territories  dependent  upon  it,  passed  into  the 
Austrian  family."     Hist.  Mem.  vol.  i.  p.  281. — Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  343 

things  were  purchased,  particularly  the  Medallions* 
of  the  Medici  by  Benvenuto  Cellini.  That  sale  and 
the  History  are  enough  to  make  the  old  Electressf 
shudder  in  her  coffin. 


LETTER  CCCLXV. 

Berkeley  Square,  Dec.  21,  1761. 

There  have  been  no  events,  except  Parliament- 
ary debates,  since  my  last,  till  last  Monday ;  when 
news  came  of  Sir  Eyre  Coote's  having  defeated  Hyder 
Ally  in  India,  J  and  when  we  were  nattered  with  pro- 
mising hopes  of  Admiral  Kempenfelt's  demolishing  and 
disappointing  the  French  expedition  from  Brest  to  the 
West  Indies.  Our  Admiral  had  fallen  into  the  thick 
of  their  transports,  of  which  nineteen  had  struck. 
Commodore  Elliot  was  engaged  with  the  French  Admi- 
ral, and  had  dismasted  him  ;  and,  when  the  express 
came  away,  Kempenfelt  was  bearing  down  with  the 
wind  to  attack  the  squadron,  which  he  had  been  told 
did  not  out-number  his  own  fourteen.  You  may  judge 
how  our  hopes  and  impatience  rose  and  increased.     I 

*  They  were  only  small  models  in  wax,  and  were  purchased  by  Sir 
William  Hamilton. 

+  The  Electress  Palatine  Dowager,  sister  of  John  Gaston  the  last 
Great-Duke  of  the  House  of  Medici,  whom  she  survived,  returned  to  Flo- 
rence on  her  husband's  death,  and  died  there. 

X  On  the  1st  of  July,  Sir  Eyre  Coote  gained  a  signal  victory  over 
Hyder  Ally  at  Porto  Novo  ;  his  own  forces  consisting  of  only  ten  thou- 
sand men,  while  those  of  Hyder  amounted  to  one  hundred  and  fifty  thou- 
sand.— Ed. 


344  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

waited  till  four  the  next  day,  when  being  to  dine  and 
pass  the  evening  with  Princess  Amelia,  which  I  knew 
would  prevent  my  writing,  though  post-night,  I  sent  to 
beg  your  nephew,  if  any  good  news  should  come,  to 
write  to  you  incontinently.  He  was  not  come  to 
town,  but  was  expected  every  minute.  Alas  !  before 
I  left  the  Princess,  we  heard  that  a  second  express  was 
just  arrived,  that  our  Admiral,  besides  the  fourteen 
hostile  ships,  had  discovered  five  more,  each  mounting 
110  or  112  guns  ;  and  that,  not  thinking  it  prudent  to 
encounter  so  superior  a  force,  he  had  retreated,  and 
brought  away  but  fourteen  transports,  containing  about 
nine  hundred  men.  Neither  all  of  them,  nor  he  him- 
self, are  yet  arrived,  and  the  expedition  has  probably 
continued  its  course,  and  there  is  new  danger  to  our 
West  India  islands. 

Perhaps  we  have  not  received  a  worse  blow  than 
this  disappointment.  If  Lord  Sandwich  can  weather 
it,  he  will  be  skilful  or  fortunate  indeed!  In  one 
word,  what  can  be  said  either  for  his  having  no  intel- 
ligence of  five  ships  of  such  magnitude,  or  for  dis- 
patching Kempenfelt  with  only  fourteen,  when  Eodney 
was  not  sailed,  and  when  we  have  several  more  ships 
lying  in  port  at  Portsmouth?  Most  mouths  are 
opened  against  him,  not  only  in  Opposition  and  in 
town,  but  at  Court.  Lord  Rockingham  did  commence 
the  attack  the  very  next  day  in  the  Lords,4"  though 

*  The  Marquis  of  Rockingham  complained  in  the  House  of  Lords,  on 
the  19th,  of  the  want  of  exertion  on  the  part  of  the  Admiralty,  and  re- 
minded their  Lordships  of  the  declaration  of  Lord  Sandwich  a  session  or 
two  ago,  that  a  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty  deserved  to  lose  his  head,  if 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  345 

not  in  form;  and  one  piece  of  luck  has  already  hap- 
pened to  the  Great  Delinquent,  that  the  Parliament 
adjourns  to-day  for  the  holidays,  and  will  give  him  a 
temporary  reprieve  for  manoeuvres  and  defence,  if  new 
calamities  do  not  inflame  exasperation. 

The  King  of  France  is  said  to  have  sent  for  Cardinal 
de  Bernis  to  be  Prime  Minister  again  ;  but  that  you 
must  know  better  than  I.  I  am  interrupted,  and  must 
finish. 


LETTER  CCCLXVI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  Dec.  28,  1781. 

I  have  gone  regularly  through  three  volumes 
of  the  House  of  Medici,  and  dipped  into  a  good  deal 
of  the  fourth.  It  is  rather  not  well  written  than  ill 
written  ;  the  style  is  more  languid  than  faulty,  and 
thence  neither  interests  nor  disgusts.  "What  pleases 
me  most  is,  that,  besides  the  two  first  Great-Dukes 
being  great  men,  Cosmo  the  Second  and  Ferdinand 
the  Second  were  very  good  princes ;  and,  though  John 
Gaston  was  very  vicious,  he  was  not  a  bad  prince  :  a 

he  did  not  at  all  times  take  care  to  have  a  navy  fit  to  face  that  of  the 
House  of  Bourbon.  The  recent  affair  of  Admiral  Kempenfelt  was,  he  said, 
but  one  addition  to  the  many  proofs  of  our  inferiority.  In  the  House  of 
Commons,  Admiral  Keppel  also  complained,  that  the  Admiralty  had  not 
given  Admiral  Kempenfelt,  though  a  favourite,  a  sufficient  force.  He 
added,  that  upon  the  expedition  from  Brest  to  the  West  Indies  depended 
the  safety  of  our  islands  ;  and  that,  if  a  proper  use  had  been  made  of  our 
force,  the  Count  de  Rochambeau  would  never  have  been  able  to  land  in 
America,  and  consequently  the  surrender  of  Lord  Cornwallis  would  not 
have  taken  place. — Ed. 


346  THE  HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

much  larger  proportion  of  good  and  great,  out  of 
seven,  than  happens  to  most  sovereign  families ;  per- 
haps to  most  elevated  families.  Francis  the  First 
seems  to  have  had  no  virtues  ;  Cosmo  the  Third  would, 
some  few  centuries  ago,  have  passed  for  the  best  of 
all ;  because  a  proud  silly  bigot,  who  impoverished  his 
subjects  to  enrich  the  clergy.  In  short,  I  like  the 
author's  general  impartiality  ;  and,  though  he  some- 
times spares  his  Florentine  masters,  he  has  no  criminal 
favour  for  the  rest  of  the  Kings  of  Europe.  I  wish 
the  line  of  Popes  were  extinct,  like  the  Medici,  that 
the  world  might  have  a  chance  of  seeing  their  true 
history  too.  Indeed,  Galuzzi  gives  it  roundly,  when 
it  comes  in  his  way  ;  so  much,  that  I  imagine  that  to 
have  been  the  chief  motive  to  the  publication,  and  to 
have  originated  with  Caesar  himself,*  who  may  per- 
haps have  an  eye  to  some  imperial  fiefs  usurped  by 
the  Popes.  The  author's  severity  on  such  a  succession 
of  rascals  makes  one  trust  him  when  he  speaks  well  of 
any  of  them.  How  shameless  do  others  of  them  ap- 
pear, when  one  finds  them  extending  their  impudent 
encroachments,  after  so  large  a  part  of  Europe  had 
opened  its  eyes !  On  the  other  hand,  how  must  we 
English  smile  at  their  opposite  folly,  in  seeing  them 
refuse  a  dispensation  for  a  match  with  a  heretic  to  our 
wretched  James  the  First,  at  the  instigation  of  old 
Mother  Bellarmine  !  That  part  is  very  new  to  us,  and, 
if  Lord  Clarendon  came  to  the  knowledge  of  it,  he  sup- 
pressed it ;  for,  though  a  sincere  Protestant,  he  had  so 

*  The  Emperor  Joseph  II. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  347 

much  of  the  Church  in  him,  that,  like  the  motto  on 
their  bells,  "  Fear  God,  honour  the  King,"  he  was  always 
swinging  between  both.  I  like  the  author,  too,  for 
touching  on  the  knavery  of  two  of  my  noble  authors, 
the  good  Earls  of  Salisbury*  and  Northampton ;  f  and 
still  more  so  for  the  justly  bitter  things  he  says  of 
Louis  XIII.  and  Richelieu.  He  is  rather  too  severe  on 
Henry  IV.  and  Sully  :  if  the  first  was  too  easy  and 
good-humoured,  and  the  latter  too  ceconomic  a  politi- 
cian to  be  strictly  just,  one  may  rejoice  rather  than 
weep  when  nations  have  no  worse  reproaches  to 
make  to  their  governors.  The  part  that  diverted  me 
the  most,  in  a  ludicrous  light,  was  the  Court  of  the 
Archbishop  of  Florence  condemning  the  Parliament  of 
England  to  pay  eight  millions  two  hundred  thousand 
pounds  sterling  to  Dudley,  Duke  of  Northumber- 
land,— another  of  my  noble  authors  !  %     One  would 

*  Sir  Robert  Cecil,  first  Earl  of  Salisbury,  "  who  bad  tbe  good  for- 
tune," says  Walpole,  in  his  Royal  and  Noble  Authors,  "  to  please 
both  Queen  Elizabeth  and  King  James  the  First ;  who,  like  the  son  of 
the  Duke  of  Lerma,  had  the  uncommon  fate  of  succeeding  his  own  father 
as  Prime  Minister  ;  and  who,  unlike  that  son  of  Lerma,  did  not,  though 
treacherous  to  everybody  else,  supplant  his  own  father." — Ed. 

t  "  Henry  Howard,  Earl  of  Northampton,  younger  son  of  the  famous 
Earl  of  Surrey,  said  to  be  the  most  learned  among  the  nobility,  and  the 
most  noble  among  the  learned.  Lady  Bacon,  the  severe  and  froward, 
but  upright  mother  of  Sir  Francis,  often  warns  her  son  against  him,  call- 
ing Howard  'a  dangerous  intelligencing  man,  and  no  doubt  a  subtle 
papist  inwardly,  a  very  instrument  of  the  Spanish  papists  !  Pretend- 
ing courtesy,  he  worketh  mischief  perilously.  I  have  long  known  him 
and  observed  him.  His  workings  have  been  stark  naught.'  In  another 
place  she  calls  him  '  subtiliter  subdolus,  and  a  subtle  serpent.'  Sir  Henry 
Weldon  speaks  of  him  as  the  grossest  flatterer  alive."  Royal  and  Noble 
Authors. — Ed. 

%  Robert  Dudley,  Duke  of  Northumberland,  "  called,"  says  Walpole, 


348  THE   HON.  HORACE    WALPOLE 

think  that  Court  had  existed  in  the  present  age,  when 
foreigners  think — I  fear  I  must  now  say  thought — 
there  could  be  no  end  of  our  wealth.  I  wonder  such 
stupendous  ideas  of  our  opulence  did  not  weigh  with 
Paul  the  Fifth  to  grant  the  dispensation,  in  spite  of 
conscientious  Bellarmine.  Be  it  remembered  for  once, 
that  churchmen  were  more  scrupulous  than  rapacious. 

I  asked  you  whether  there  was  any  picture  of  Ca- 
milla Martelli.  I  have  found  a  print  of  her,  among  the 
hundred  heads  of  the  House  of  Medici,  by  Allegrini. 
You  cannot  imagine  how  pleased  I  am  to  find  that  I 
have  lost  so  little  either  of  my  Italian  or  of  my  me- 
mory of  Florence,  after  so  long  a  disuse.  I  am  sorry 
you  never  mention  any  of  my  acquaintance  there  :  no 
doubt,  most  of  them  are  gone  off;  but  you  would 
oblige  me  by  naming  such  as  are  still  alive.  This 
letter  is  a  parenthesis  between  our  present  momentous 
politics,  written  in  the  holidays,  in  the  solitude  and 
silence  of  Strawberry.  I  shall  finish  it  in  town,  whi- 
ther I  shall  go  in  two  days,  expecting  to  hear  new 
disasters. 

"  the  natural  son,  probably  the  legitimate  son,  of  the  great  Earl  of  Leices- 
ter. He  was  educated  under  Sir  Thomas  Chaloner,  the  accomplished 
governor  of  Prince  Henry,  and  distinguished  his  youth  by  martial 
achievements,  and  by  useful  discoveries  in  the  West  Indies.  But  it 
was  the  House  of  Medici,  those  patrons  of  learning  and  talents,  who 
fostered  this  enterprising  spirit,  and  who  were  amply  rewarded  for  their 
munificence  by  his  projecting  the  free  port  of  Leghorn.  He  flourished 
in  their  Court,  and  in  that  of  the  Emperor,  who  declared  him  Duke  of 
Northumberland  ;  a  dukedom  remarkably  confirmed  to  his  widow,  whom 
Charles  the  First,  in  1644,  created  Duchess  Dudley." — En. 


TO   SIR  HORACE   MANN.  349 

Monday  night,  :51st. 

I  have  this  moment  received  yours  of  the  13th  by 
your  third  courier,  with  those  inclosed  for  your  ne- 
phew and  mine.     I  imagine  the  former  is  not  in  town, 
but  I  shall  send  it  to  his  house  ;  the  other^never  is, 
but  the  mere  hours  of  his  waiting  ;  but  I  have  sealed, 
directed,  and  sent  it  to  the  post.    The  monument'"  will 
not  be  dear,  but  it  is  ugly  enough  in  conscience.     Yet, 
what  signifies  that,  or  the  blunders  %     Over  the  arms  is 
a  baron's  coronet,  I  suppose  to  imply  my  Lady's  barony 
of  Clinton  ;  yet  it  should  not  be  there,  for  the  shield 
containing  only  the  arms  of  Walpole  and  some  of  the 
quartering^,  makes  it  represent  only  a  Baron  Walpole  ; 
that  is,  my  brother  before  my  father's  death.     To  sig- 
nify Lady  Clinton,  it  ought  to  be  her  arms  quartering 
Clinton  in  a  shield  of  pretence  in  the  middle  of  her 
husband's  arms,  or  rather  in  the  same  manner,  but  in 
a  lozenge,  as  a  widow  ;  for  the  barony  did  not  descend 
to  her  in  my  brother's  life.     But  all  this  would  be 
algebra  to  a  Florentine  sculptor; — nor  do  I  wish  to 
have   it    clear   for   whom  it   was   designed, — nor,    if 
known,  will  any  English  herald  or  antiquary  probably 
ever  see  it.     My  Lord,  in  this  past  month,  determined 
on  an  expedition  to  visit  his  new  domains  in  Dorset  and 
Devon  shires,  and  his  seats  at  Piddletown  and  Hean- 
ton  were  ordered  to  be  aired  and  prepared  for  his  re- 
ception, and  Lucas  was  dispatched  to  the  latter  (in 
Devonshire)  to  notify  his  arrival,  and  invite  the  neigh- 
bouring gentry  to  the  ceremony  of  inauguration.     The 

*  The  one  intended  for  Lady  Orford,  at  Leghorn. — Ed. 


350  THE   HON.   HORACE  WALPOLE 

Earl  followed,  arrived  at  Piddletown  (in  Dorsetshire), 
changed  his  mind,  returned  to  his  hovel  at  Eriswell, 
and  left  Lucas  to  tell  the  other  county  how  perfectly 
his  Lordship  is  in  his  senses. 

I  have  not  found  a  tittle  of  news  in  town  ;  therefore 
I  shall  send  this  away  by  the  post  to-morrow,  and 
write  again  by  the  return  of  your  courier,  if  I  hear  any 
novelty. 

Pray,  whose  is  the  portrait  that  my  Lord  has  so 
tenderly  redemanded  1  The  Countess  certainly  did 
not  love  any  picture  of  our  family  enough  to  lug  it 
behind  her  chaise  to  Italy,  as  Lady  Pomfret  did  Lady 
Bell  Finch's,  for  which  you  remember  she  had  a  new 
frame  made  in  every  town  she  stopped  at.  Perhaps 
it  is  his  grandpapa  Jack  Harris's,  or  Mr.  Sewallis  Shir- 
ley's, the  latter  of  whom  had  some  claim  to  be  regis- 
tered on  the  future  monument.  In  my  Lord's  fit  of 
posthumous  piety  he  may  have  grown  fond,  too,  of  step- 
grandfathers  and  fathers,  though  he  has  not  yet  ac- 
quired affection  for  those  who  passed  for  his  real  pro- 
genitors. 

After  Doctors'  Commons  had  lain  fallow  for  a  year 
or  two,  it  is  again  likely  to  bear  a  handsome  crop  of 
divorces.  Gallantry  in  this  country  scorns  a  mask. 
Maids  only  intrigue,  wives  elope.  Cest  l' etiquette. 
Two  young  married  ladies  are  just  gone  off — no,  this 
is  a  wrong  term  for  one  of  them  ;  for  she  has  just  come 
to  town,  and  drives  about  London,  for  fear  her  adven- 
ture should  be  forgotten  before  it  comes  into  the 
House  of  Lords.     It  is  a  Lady  Worseley,  sister  of  Lady 


TO  SIR   HORACE   MANN.  351 

Harrington.  On  hearing  she  was  gone  away  with  a 
Major  Blisset,  another  young  gentleman  said,  at  St. 
James's  coffee-house,  "  I  have  been  very  secret ;  but 
now,  I  think,  I  am  at  liberty  to  show  this  letter."  It 
was  couched  in  these  laconic  and  sentimental  terms  : 
"  I  have  loved  Windham,  I  did  love  Graham,  but  now  I 
love  only  you,  by  God."  I  am  a  little  angry  for  my 
nephew,  Lord  Cholmondeley,  who  has  been  most  talked 
of  for  her,  and  who  is  thought  to  have  the  largest  pre- 
tensions to  her  remembrance.  If  you  see  him,  you 
may  tell  him  I  resent  her  forgetfulness  ;  we  believe 
him  in  Italy.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCCLXVII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Jan.  17,  1782. 

I  have  received  yours  of  the  29  th  of  last  month, 
and  will  answer  it  in  this  as  well  as  I  can  ;  though  I 
have  but  one  hand  at  liberty,  having  been  confined 
these  ten  days  by  the  gout  in  the  other  and  its  elbow. 
I  am  not  void  of  all  hopes  that  the  fit  will  proceed  no 
farther  ;  and  then,  though  my  prison  may  last  as 
much  longer  as  it  has  done,  I  shall  think  myself  very 
fortunate,  for  it  will  be  the  shortest  fit  I  have  had 
these  ten  years ;  nor  am  I  young  or  fond  enough  of 
the  world  to  pant  after  much  liberty  beyond  that  of 
my  limbs. 

There  has  been  no  public  event  since  my  last,  but 
the  French  purchase  of  St.  Eustatia  from  our  Governor 


352  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

of  it.*  What  shame  there  is  in  that  transaction  the 
buyers,  I  suppose,  will  make  over  to  the  seller,  unless 
the  Opposition  borrow  part  of  it  for  the  Ministers. 
The  Parliament  is  to  meet  next  week,  and  the  town 
expects  that,  before  that,  Lord  George  Germain's  re- 
signation will  be  notified — not  that  I  tell  you  he  has 
resigned,  but  such  is  the  universal  persuasion  ;  and  the 
last  symptom  on  which  conjectures  are  formed  is,  that 
his  family  have  said  he  would  not  be  at  the  Queen's 

*  Secure  in  their  inaccessible  situation,  the  British  garrison  at  St. 
Eustatia  conducted  themselves  in  so  negligent  a  manner,  that  the  Mar- 
quis de  Bouille  was  induced  to  make  an  attempt  to  regain  it.  Having 
sailed  from  Martinico,  he  succeeded  in  landing,  with  much  loss  and  diffi- 
culty, about  four  hundred  men  during  the  night  of  the  26th  of  November. 
Trusting  to  the  negligence  of  his  enemy,  and  the  consequent  probability 
of  a  surprise,  the  Marquis  pushed  forward  with  the  utmost  expedition. 
A  division  of  the  garrison,  who  were  exercising  in  a  field,  mistook  a  body 
of  Irish  troops,  which  attended  the  French  commander,  for  their  com- 
rades. A  volley  of  small-arms.,  fired  almost  at  their  breasts,  and  which 
killed  several  men,  was  the  first  knowledge  the  soldiers  at  exercise  had 
of  their  danger.  Colonel  Cockburne,  the  Governor,  who  had  been  taking 
an  early  ride,  returning  at  the  instant  of  the  surprise,  was  made  pri- 
soner. The  island  was  lost  in  a  few  minutes,  and  without  the  expense  of 
a  man  to  the  enemy.  The  Marquis  behaved  with  great  magnanimity.  A 
considerable  sum  of  money,  which  the  Governor  claimed  as  his  property, 
was  restored  to  him  ;  but  a  very  large  sum,  being  a  remainder  of  the 
produce  of  the  late  sales,  and  said  to  be  the  property  of  Admiral  Rodney 
and  General  Vaughan,  became  a  prize  to  the  victors.  The  moderation 
and  clemency  of  the  Marquis  upon  this  occasion  was  warmly  eulogized  by 
Mr.  Burke  in  the  House  of  Commons.  "  Two  British  commanders,"  he 
said,  "  plunder  every  unfortunate  inhabitant  of  the  island  ;  the  Marquis 
de  Bouille  restores,  as  far  as  he  can,  to  every  man  his  property."  In  a 
letter  to  a  friend,  of  the  24th  of  January,  Sir  Samuel  Romilly  makes  the 
following  reflections  on  the  re-taking  of  St.  Eustatia  —  "  What  infamy  ! 
The  Governor  is  too  prudent  undoubtedly  ever  to  return  to  England  ; 
he  must  either  drag  on  the  load  of  his  life  in  France,  in  the  receipt  (for 
he  cannot  know  the  enjoyment)  of  the  wages  of  his  treachery,  or  be 
more  actively  infamous,  and  take  up  arms  against  his  country.     I  am 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  353 

birth-day  to-morrow.  Your  nephew,  I  conclude,  will 
now  come  to  town,  and  send  you  fresher  and  more  au- 
thentic Parliamentary  intelligence  than  I  can. 

We  hear  with  some  surprise  of  the  Emperor's  very 
rapid  suffocation  of  nunneries.'""  Do  not  the  monks 
regret  their  helpmates,  and  tremble  for  themselves  % 
If  Cajsars  could  tremble,  I  should  ask  if  Cresar  had  no 
apprehension  for  himself.  Are  all  the  Jesuits  extinct 
that  dispatched  poor  Ganganelli  ?+  Is  not  the  Vatican 
hung  with  sackcloth  ?     I  suppose  the  next  thing  we 

wrong,  perhaps,  to  speak  as  if  his  treason  were  proved  ;  hut  can  it  possi- 
bly be  doubted  ?  How  unfortunate  we  are  in  our  commanders  ;  some 
cowards,  some  traitors,  others  brave  indeed,  but  the  slaves  of  party,  or 
the  more  abject  slaves  of  avarice  !  The  Ministers  have  often  availed 
themselves  of  some  circumstances  which  seemed  for  the  moment  fortu- 
nate, to  boast  that  we  had  Providence  on  our  side.  What  will  they  say 
now  ?  Never  did  the  hand  of  Providence  appear  more  conspicuously 
than  at  present.  We  took  St.  Eustatia  like  pirates,  violating  in  the 
persons  and  property  of  the  prisoners  the  law  of  nations  ;  but  we  did  not 
profit  by  our  guilt.  The  effects  seized  were  retaken  on  their  passage 
home,  and  the  island  itself  is  lost  in  the  most  disgraceful  manner.  We 
encouraged  treachery  in  the  rebel  Arnold,  but  all  we  gained  by  it  was 
empty  promises  ;  the  same  treachery  is  retaliated  on  us,  and  what  we  lose 
by  it  is  the  only  pledge  we  had,  by  which  we  might  have  purchased 
back  the  friendship  of  the  Dutch."     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  199. — Ed. 

*  The  reform  of  the  German  monasteries  was  begun  in  the  year  1781, 
by  the  Emperor  Joseph  II.  The  hasty  manner  in  which  he  set  about  it, 
without  sufficient  regard  to  the  necessities  and  feelings  of  the  older  in- 
mates, who  were  turned  adrift  into  the  world  with  only  small  pensions, 
and  in  some  cases  even  without  any,  occasioned  considerable  dissatis- 
faction at  the  time. — En. 

t  In  April  1774,  Clement  XIV.,  the  principal  event  of  whose  pontifi- 
cate was  the  suppression  of  the  order  of  Jesuits,  was  taken  dangerously  ill, 
under  suspicious  symptoms,  and  lingered  on  till  the  following  September, 
when  he  died.  Rumours  were  spread  abroad  that  poison  had  been  admi- 
nistered to  him  ;  but  the  post-mortem  examination  of  the  body,  and  the 
report  of  his  physicians,  did  not  countenance  the  suspicion,  to  which 
Walpole  appears  to  have  given  credit. — Ed. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  2    A 


354  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

shall  hear  will  be,  that  those  pillars  of  toleration,  the 
King  of  Prussia  and  the  Czarina,  have  opened  asylums 
on  the  road  for  all  those  chaste  doves  that  choose  to 
leave  their  first  spouse.  The  next  century  will  most 
probably  exhibit  a  very  new  era,  which  the  close  of 
this  has  been,  and  is,  preparing.  The  annihilation  of 
the  Jesuits  paved  the  way.  Popery  totters,  though 
we  preposterously  stepped  in  to  save  it ;  but  when  old 
follies  grow  exploded,  what  can  save  them  1  not  their 
own  gibberish  nor  legerdemain,  which  gave  them  suc- 
cess. This  is  no  impeachment  to  new  impostures  ; 
but  for  the  old,  I  would  not  answer  how  far  the  Revo- 
lution may  extend. 

The  enfranchisement  of  America  will  be  another  ca- 
pital feature  of  the  New  Era,  and,  sooner  or  later,  will 
extend  beyond  British  colonies.  Whether  mankind 
will  be  advantaged  by  these  boulever semens,  I  am  not 
so  clear  ;  I  mean,  in  their  capacity  of  Reason  and 
Liberty,  —  charters  seldom  obtained  and  confirmed 
without  much  bloodshed.  Soldiers,  I  fear,  will  not 
be  laid  aside,  though  Priests  may  ;  and  then  what  sig- 
nifies whether  one  is  chained  or  murdered  by  a  fellow 
in  a  black  coat,  or  a  fellow  in  a  red  one  % 

18th. 

Lord  George  Germain  has  indubitably  resigned,  it 
is  said,  to  be  a  peer ;  and  that  the  office  will  not  be 
filled  up,  its  province  being  gone.  His  second  tome 
has  not  been  brilliant,  but  has  made  the  first  the  more 
remembered — no  advantage  neither.  What  reasons  he 
assigns  for  retirement  I  have  not  heard ;  his  associates 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  355 

nor  the  public  wished  him  to  stay.  The  next  chapter 
will  be  his  principal  enemy  Lord  Sandwich's,  who 
has  numerous  foes  too,  but  more  friends. 


LETTER  CCCLXVIII. 

Berkeley  Square,  Fob.  7,  1782. 

I  anticipated  Lord  George  Germain's  exit  before 
it  was  complete  :  nay,  it  is  not  yet,  though  imminent.* 
It  is  not,  I  believe,  entirely  a  voluntary  act,  much  less 
a  disgrace,  but  merely  the  effect  of  disagreement  with 

*  Disagreeing  with  the  other  members  of  the  cabinet  on  the  future 
conduct  of  the  war,  Lord  George  Germain,  on  the  11th  of  February,  re- 
signed his  office  of  one  of  the  Principal  Secretaries  of  State,  and  was  raised 
to  the  peerage  by  the  title  of  Lord  Viscount  Sackville.     The  particulars 
attending  this  elevation  are  thus  given  by  Sir  Nathaniel  Wraxall  ;  who 
professes  to  have  received  them  from  Lord  George's  mouth  on  the  day 
they  took   place,  — "  The   separation  between  the   Sovereign   and   the 
Secretary  was   not  unaccompanied   by  emotion    on   both   sides.     After 
regretting   the    unfortunate    events    that    had   dictated    the    measure, 
and  thanking   Lord  George  for  his   services,   his   Majesty  added,   '  Is 
there  anything  that  I  can   do  to  express  my  sense  of  them  ? '     e  Sir,' 
answered  he,   '  if  your  Majesty  is  pleased  to  raise  me  to  the  dignity 
of  a   peerage,    it  will  be   the  best  proof  of  your   approbation  of  my 
past  exertions.'     '  By  all  means,'  said  the   King ;  '  I  think  it  very  pro- 
per.'    '  Then,  Sir,'  rejoined  Lord  George,  l  if  you  agree  to  my  request,  I 
hope  you  will  not  think  it  unbecoming  or  unreasonable  in  me  to  ask  an- 
other favour.     It  is  to  create  me  a  viscount  ;  as,  should  I  be  only  raised 
to  the  dignity  of  a  baron,  my  own  secretary,  my  lawyer,  and  my  father's 
page  will  all  take  rank  of  me.'     The  King,  expressing  a  wish  to  know 
the  names  of  the  persons  alluded  to,  <  The  first,'  replied  Lord  George,  '  is 
Lord  Walsingham,  who  was  for  some  time  Under-Secretary  of  State  in 
my  office,  when  Mr.  De  Grey ;  the  second  is   Lord  Loughborough,  who 
has  always  been  my  lawyer  ;  and  the  third  is  Lord  Amherst,  who,  when 
page  to  my  father,  has  often  sat  on  the  braces  of  the  state-coach  that  con- 
veyed him,  as  Lord-Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  to  the  Parliament-house  in 

2  a  2 


356  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

some  of  his  colleagues ;  consequently,  I  should  think, 
would  not  produce  much  variation  of  measures,  as 
Lord  George  certainly  did  not  resist  such  as  made  his 
court  best.  That  he  was  no  unwelcome  servant  is 
plain,  as  he  is  to  be  a  Viscount  ;  and  his  nephew,  the 
Duke  of  Dorset,  succeeds  Lord  Falmouth,  who  is  just 
dead,  as  Captain  of  the  Band  of  Pensioners.*  Mr. 
Ellis  is  to  be  Secretary  of  State  in  the  room  of  Lord 
George,  f 

If  your  nephew  has  written  to  you  lately,  you  will 
have  seen  that  I  had  no  event  to  tell  of  any  public  no- 
toriety. There  have  been  some  ineffectual  efforts  at 
opposition  in  both  Houses,  and  not  very  remarkable. 
Nor  do  I  imagine  that  the  prosecution  of  Lord  Sandwich 

Dublin.'  The  King  smiled,  adding,  '  What  you  say  is  very  reasonable  ; 
it  shall  be  so.'  This  is  one  of  the  few  peerages  conferred  by  George  the 
Third  wholly  independent  of  Ministerial  intervention.  Lord  North  had 
not  the  smallest  share  in  the  business."  Historical  Memoirs,  vol.  ii. 
p.  493.— Ed. 

*  Captain  of  the  Yeomen  of  the  Guard. — Ed. 

f  The  Right  Honourable  Welbore  Ellis,  at  that  time  Treasurer  of  the 
Navy,  was  appointed  to  fill  the  office  of  Colonial  Secretary.  The  por- 
trait of  this  gentleman  is  thus  sketched  by  Wraxall  :  "In  his  figure, 
manner,  and  deportment,  the  very  essence  of  form,  he  regularly  took  his 
place  on  the  Treasury  Bench,  dressed  in  all  points  as  if  he  had  been 
going  to  the  drawing-room  at  St.  James's.  His  eloquence  was  of  the 
same  description  as  himself,  precise,  grave,  and  constrained  ;  unillumi- 
nated  by  taste,  and  calculated  to  convince  more  than  to  exhilarate  or  elec- 
trify his  audience.  The  respect  due  to  his  age,  character,  and  employ- 
ment, commonly  secured  him  a  patient  hearing.  Burke,  after  felicitating 
him  on  succeeding  as  heir  to  Lord  George,  at  whose  feet  he  had  been 
brought  up,  and  whose  political  opinions  he  implicitly  adopted,  com- 
pared him  to  a  caterpillar,  who  having  long  remained  in  a  torpid  state 
within  the  silken  folds  of  his  lucrative  employment  as  Treasurer  of  the 
Navy,  now  bursting  his  ligaments,  fluttered  forth  the  Secretary  of  the 
hour."— En. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  357 

in  the  House  of  Commons  will  have  any  serious  termi- 
nation. Lord  Cornwallis  is  arrived,  and  that  man  of 
wretched  fame,  Arnold.*  There  was  something  of 
humour  mixed  with  the  severity  which  the  Americans 
meditated  for  him,  had  they  taken  him  in  his  passage, 
as  they  attempted  and  were  near  doing.  They  in- 
tended to  cut  off  his  leg,  which  had  been  wounded  in 
their  service,  and  bury  it  with  military  honours,  and 
then  hang  the  rest  of  his  person,  f  I  think  lie  cannot 
do  better  now  than  consort  with  General  Paoli. 

*  "  Lord  Cornwallis  and  Arnold,"  writes  Sir  Samuel  Romilly  on  the 
21st  of  January,  "are  both  arrived  at  Plymouth;  the  latter  is  said  to 
have  brought  with  him  a  very  great  fortune."  When  the  House  of  Com- 
mons went  to  St.  James's,  on  the  4th  of  March,  with  their  address 
against  the  further  prosecution  of  the  American  war,  the  circumstance  of 
the  appearance  of  Arnold  at  Court,  standing  close  to  his  Majesty's  chair, 
made  a  deep  impression  on  the  public  mind,  and  was  construed  into  a 
dcvelopement  of  the  royal  feelings  towards  his  American  subjects.  The 
Earl  of  Surrey  designated  it,  a  few  days  after,  in  the  House  of  Commons, 
a  wanton  and  indecent  insult  offered  by  Ministers  to  the  representatives 
of  the  people. — Ed. 

t  Dr.  Franklin,  in  a  letter  from  Paris  of  the  11th  of  May,  1781,  thus 
writes  to  the  Marquis  de  la  Fayette  :  "  I  hope  that,  by  this  time,  the  ship 
which  has  the  honour  of  bearing  your  name  is  safely  arrived.  Your 
friends  have  heard  of  your  being  gone  against  the  traitor  Arnold,  and  are 
anxious  to  hear  of  your  success,  and  that  you  have  brought  him  to  punish- 
ment. Enclosed  is  a  copy  of  a  letter  from  his  agent  in  England,  cap- 
tured by  some  of  our  cruizers,  and  by  which  the  price  or  reward  he  re- 
ceived for  his  treachery  may  be  guessed  at.  Judas  sold  only  one  man, 
Arnold  three  millions.  Judas  got  for  his  one  man  thirty  pieces  of  silver, 
Arnold  not  a  half-penny  a  head.  A  miserable  bargain  !  especially  when 
one  considers  the  quantity  of  infamy  he  has  acquired  to  himself  and  en- 
tailed on  his  family."  The  intercepted  letter  here  spoken  of  was  from  a 
banker  in  London  to  General  Arnold,  stating  that  he  had  received  from 
him  bills  to  the  amount  of  five  thousand  pounds  sterling,  which  the 
banker  said  he  had  invested  in  the  stocks.  See  Franklin's  Works,  vol. 
ix.  p.  29,  Sparks's  edition,  1839. — Ed. 


358  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

There  has  been  lately  the  most  dreadful  catastrophe 
in  the  City  of  which  I  ever  heard  or  read.  A  sta- 
tioner's wife,  a  very  fond  mother,  went  up,  as  she  did 
constantly,  to  see  her  children  in  bed.  She  had  seven, 
the  eldest  not  nine  years  old.  By  some  strange  inad- 
vertence, she  left  a  candle  near  a  curtain  of  one  of  the 
beds.  It  caught  ;  the  house  was  burnt,  and  every  one 
of  the  poor  babes !  Lady  Molesworth's  tragedy  was 
not  so  horrid,  for  she  was  so  happy  as  to  be  consumed 
too.*     These  poor  parents  are  both  alive. 

I  think,  when  I  wrote  last,  I  was  confined  with  the 
gout.  It  has  proved  the  slightest  fit  I  have  had  for 
many  years,  was  only  in  my  left  hand  and  elbow,  and 
did  not  last  a  month  ;  yet  both  my  hands  are  terribly 
afilicted  with  chalk-stones.  However,  it  is  plain  that 
my  bootikins,  regimen,  temperance,  and  perseverance  in 
my  cold  system  have  prodigiously  lessened  my  suf- 
ferings ;  and,  if  I  live  to  an  hundred,  I  suppose  I  shall 
be  a  very  healthy  young  fellow.  Still,  I  do  not  intend 
to  cut  my  colt's-tooth  till  past  ninety.  So  far  from  ju- 
venile airs,  I  lead  a  most  recluse  life,  and  scarcely  ever 
go  into  any  public,  indeed  only  to  very  private  places, 
except,  what  I  cannot  avoid,  the  public  nights  at  Glou- 
cester-house, and  they  are  not  very  numerous.  I  have 
been  once  to  the  Opera  to  hear  the  Allegranti,  whom  I 
like,  and  who  is  almost  as  much  in  fashion  as  Vestris 
the  dancer  was  last  year  :  the  applause  to  her  is  rather 

*  In  May  1763,  Lady  Molesworth's  house  in  Upper  Brook  Street 
was  burned  to  the  ground,  and  she  herself,  two  of  her  daughters,  her  bro- 
ther, and  six  servants,  all  perished.  See  Collective  Edition,  vol.  iv. 
p.  272.— Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  359 

greater.  Pacchierotti  is  much  admired  too,  and  the 
dancers  are  a  capital  set.  So,  you  see  we  bear  our  dis- 
graces with  eminent  philosophy.  Pleasure  dues  not 
seem  to  know  that  there  is  any  want  of  money,  or 
weight  of  taxes.  I  have  not  heard  from  you  long.  I 
expect  you  to  tell  me  a  great  deal  of  the  Pope's  lamen- 
tations. To  be  sure,  the  Great-Duke  does  not  compli- 
ment him  with  a  suppression  of  your  carnival. 

Friday,  8th. 

The  inquiry  on  Lord  Sandwich  died  suddenly  this 
morning,  at  three  o'clock,  of  a  vote  of  approbation  of 
205  to  183,* 

The  Duke  de  Chartres  f  is  going  to  Constantinople. 
It  was  asked,  why  \  Answer, — pour  apprendre  a  etre 
grand  seigneur. 

*  Mr.  Fox,  on  the  24th  of  January,  had  moved  for  a  committee  of  in- 
quiry into  the  causes  of  the  want  of  success  which  had  attended  our  naval 
forces  during  the  war,  and  more  particularly  in  the  year  1781.  The  mo- 
tion being  agreed  to,  he  followed  it  up,  on  the  7th  of  February,  with  a  se- 
cond, "  that  there  had  been  gross  mismanagement  in  the  administration  of 
naval  affairs  during  the  year  1781."  The  motion  was  strongly  supported 
by  Admiral  Keppel  and  Lord  Howe,  and  the  defence  of  the  Earl  of  Sand- 
wich was  undertaken  by  Lord  Mulgrave.  After  a  debate  which  lasted 
till  three  in  the  morning,  it  was  negatived  by  205  to  183.  Admiral  Kep- 
pel, in  a  letter  to  Captain  Jervis,  written  the  morning  after  the  debate, 
says  :  "  The  evidence  was  sufficient  to  condemn  a  far  better  character  than 
Lord  Sandwich.  The  proof  against  him  was  upon  the  table,  in  the  face  of 
his  advocates.  Lord  North,  I  conceive,  did  not  think  well  of  the  ground 
he  was  fighting  upon,  if  I  am  to  judge  by  the  tenor  and  insufficiency  of 
his  arguments.  Everything  was  on  our  side  but  numbers  ;  and  in  that 
particular,  considering  the  ministry,  management,  and  delaying  the  papers, 
we  had  enough,  I  believe,  to  stagger  the  First  Lord.  A  little  better  ma- 
nagement on  our  side,  and  less  assiduity  on  theirs,  and  we  should  have 
carried  our  question  clear."     Life,  vol.  ii.  p.  367. — Ed. 

t  Louis-Philippe-Joseph,  only  son  of  the  Due  d'Orleans,  whom  he 
succeeded  in  1785. 


360  THE  HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

We  have  a  report,  that  Minorca  is  taken  :  had  the 
news  arrived  a  few  hours  sooner,  it  might  have  been 
thrown  into  the  vote  of  approbation. 


LETTER  CCCLXIX. 

Berkeley  Square,  Feb.  25,  1782. 

There  are  certain  moments  in  politics  which  excite 
eager  curiosity,  but  in  which  it  is  least  easy  to  satisfy 
it.  This  means  a  crisis,  in  which  the  scales  are  so 
nicely  balanced  as  to  fluctuate,  and  consequently  to 
puzzle  the  prophetic  eye  even  of  calculators.  On 
Wednesday  last,  Mr.  Fox  renewed  the  attack  on  Lord 
Sandwich,*  who  was  saved  by  a  majority  but  of  nine- 
teen.  On  the  next  day  but  one,  General  Conway  moved 

*  On  the  20th  of  February,  Mr.  Fox  brought  the  same  question  before 
the  House  which  he  had  already  moved  in  a  committee,  relative  to  the  mal- 
administration of  naval  affairs.  Like  the  former,  the  debate  was  pro- 
tracted to  a  late  hour ;  in  the  course  of  which,  Walpole's  friend,  Sir 
Horace  Mann  the  younger,  declared,  that  we  were  everywhere  disgraced, 
and  that  it  was  the  universal  language  on  the  Continent,  that  the  affairs  of 
our  navy  were  badly  conducted.  Mr.  William  Pitt  greatly  distinguished 
himself  upon  this  occasion.  He  pointed  out  in  what  particulars  there 
had  been  neglect,  and  declared  that  he  supported  the  motion  from  motives 
of  a  public  nature,  and  from  those  motives  alone.  Mr.  Dunning,  in  allu- 
sion to  this  speech,  said,  that  almost  all  the  sentiments  he  had  collected 
in  his  own  mind  upon  the  subject  had  vanished  away  like  a  dream,  on  the 
bursting  forth  of  a  torrent  of  eloquence  behind  him,  from  the  greatest 
prodigy  that  ever  perhaps  was  seen  in  this  or  any  other  country — an 
honourable  gentleman  possessing  the  full  vigour  of  youth,  united  with  the 
experience  and  wisdom  of  the  maturest  age.  On  the  division,  the  num- 
bers were,  for  the  motion  217,  against  it  236.  Thus  the  majority  was 
decreased,  although  the  number  of  members  present  was  greater  than 
upon  the  former  occasion. — En. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  3()1 

to  address  the  King  to  take  steps  for  peace  with  Ame- 
rica. I  believe  the  calculating  prophets  had  been  at 
work  with  their  arithmetic,  and  had  found  that  when  a 
plurality  of  twenty-two  was  sunk  to  nineteen,  it  was  a 
decreasing  fund  ;  and  thence  they  contributed  to  make 
it  so — for  at  two  in  the  morning  the  majority  appeared 
to  be  fallen  to  a  single  figure.  The  question  was  re- 
jected but  by  one  voice.* 

*  The  appointment  of  Mr.  Welbore  Ellis  to  the  office  of  Secretary  of 
State  for  the  Plantation  Department,  ami  of  Sir  Guy  Caileton  to  succeed 
the  Commander-in-chief  of  the  forces  in  North  America,  having  occa- 
sioned general  alarm  that  there  still  existed  a  determination  to  prosecute 
the  war,  the  Opposition  resolved  to  make  another  attempt  to  hind  up 
the  hands  of  the  Government.  Accordingly,  on  the  22nd,  General  Con- 
way moved  an  address  to  his  Majesty,  imploring  him  to  take  into  his 
consideration  the  great  calamities  which  had  attended  the  unfortunate 
war  on  the  continent  of  North  America,  and  beseeching  that  it  might  no 
longer  be  pursued  for  the  impracticable  purpose  of  reducing  the  inhabit- 
ants of  that  country  to  obedience  by  force ;  and  that  the  public  tran- 
quillity might  be  restored  by  a  happy  reconciliation  with  the  revolted 
colonies.  On  this  evening,  the  American  war  may  be  said  to  have  vir- 
tually terminated.  Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  who  was  in  the  gallery,  gives  the 
following  account  of  what  passed  upon  this  important  occasion  :  "  The 
Ministers  opposed  the  motion  with  all  their  strength,  and  disclosed  to  the 
House  their  design  for  carrying  on  the  war.  They  said  they  meant  to  keep 
the  posts  ;  and  when  it  was  asked  what  they  meant  by  a  war  of  posts  ? 
the  Secretary  at  War  said,  they  meant  to  keep  the  posts  they  had  already, 
and  to  take  more  if  they  saw  occasion.  This  expression  produced  a  roar 
of  '  Hear,  hear  !'  from  the  Opposition.  Fox  said,  it  was  evident,  from 
this  and  many  similar  expressions  dropped  inadvertently,  that  the  plan  of 
the  war  was  changed  only  for  the  moment,  and  that  the  faintest  glimmer- 
ing of  success  would  awaken  all  the  vain  projects  of  the  Ministers.  The 
argument  which  the  Court  party  seemed  to  rely  on  most  was  this  :  the 
Opposition,  they  said,  to  act  in  a  fair  and  manly  manner,  ought  not  to 
have  made  such  a  motion;  but  to  have  moved  at  once  for  a  change  of  Minis- 
ters ;  for  that  was  the  effect  which  the  resolution  must  directly  have  if  it 
were  carried.  The  motion  was  lost  by  a  majority  of  only  a  single  vote  ; 
the  numbers  being  193  for  the  resolution,  and  194  against  it,  The  House 
did  not  rise  till  three  in  the  morning."     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  204.— Ed. 


362  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

As  I  do  not  make  use  of  any  table  of  interest,  I 
shall  not  pretend  to  prophesy  what  will  happen.  For- 
merly, a  sinking  Minister  was  soon  gone  ;  but  as  cir- 
cumstances cannot  always  be  the  same,  no  more  can 
times,  which  take  their  colour  from  them.  One  opi- 
nion I  have,  more  fixed,  which  is,  that  the  longer  the 
Administration  can  maintain  itself,  the  heavier  will 
be  its  fall  ;  for,  as  this  success  of  the  Opposition  is 
less  owing  to  their  abilities  than  to  the  calamities  of 
the  war,  I  see  no  prospect  of  victories  to  mend  the 
situation  of  the  Ministers  ;  and  therefore,  though  they 
may  divert  their  present  danger,  the  temper  of  the 
nation,  that  is  much  soured,  will  not  sweeten  in  their 
favour. 

This  is  a  brief  sketch  of  the  present  aspect.  I  could 
not  by  a  million  of  words  tell  you  more  yet.  You  will 
understand  as  much  as  is  necessary,  and  I  do  not  at 
all  desire  to  be  more  intelligible  to  postmasters. 

I  have  received  two  letters  from  you  since  my  last ; 
one,  the  moment  that  was  set  out.  Yours  came  by 
Mr.  Grenville  with  the  prints  of  the  Medici,  for  which 
I  give  you  many  thanks.  In  your  second,  you  say 
that  the  Emperor  had  consented  to  receive  the  Pope, 
from  whom  he  has  taken  at  least  a  third  of  his  tiara. 
We  had  heard  that  Caesar  added,  that  his  Holiness's 
visit  would  be  to  no  manner  of  purpose.""     Perhaps 

*  This  year,  Pius  VI.  paid  a  visit  to  Joseph  II.,  to  endeavour  to  dis- 
suade him  from  the  prosecution  of  the  ecclesiastical  reforms  which  lie  had 
set  on  foot.  The  Pontiff  reached  Vienna  on  the  23rd  of  March,  and  was 
received  by  the  Emperor  witli  great  respect  :  but  returned  to  Rome  with- 
out beingable  to  effect  tin'  object  of  his- journey, — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE  MANN.  3G3 

the  Monarch  would  not  dislike  to  return  the  super 
aspidem  et  Basilicum  calcabis, — yet  he  may  find  an 
aspic  under  his  feet.  There  is  more  than  metaphoric 
poison  still  left  in  the  vipers  of  the  Church. 

Accustomed  as  you  are  to  our  newspapers,  you  will 
read  in  them  with  astonishment  the  detail  of  a  late 
trial  for  adultery,  between  Sir  Richard  Worseley  and 
his  wife,  sister  of  the  Countess  of  Harrington.  To  save 
her  last  favourite,  she  summoned  thirty-four  young 
men  of  the  first  quality  to  depose  to  having  received 
her  favours ;  and  one  of  them,  a  duke's  son,  to  hav- 
ing bestowed  an  additional  one  on  her.  The  num- 
ber was  reduced  to  twenty-seven,  and  but  few  of  them 
were  examined  ;  and  they  blushed  for  her.  A  better 
defence  for  her  was  the  connivance  of  the  husband, 
who  was  proved  to  have  carried  one  of  the  troop  on 
his  back  to  the  house-top,  to  view  his  fair  spouse  stark 
naked  in  the  bath.  The  jury  was  so  equitable  as  to 
give  the  plaintiff  but  one  shilling  damages.""" 

This  trial  happened  on  the  very  Friday  of  the 
drawn  battle  in  the  House  of  Commons.  Sir  Richard 
Worseley  was  missing  ;f  Lord  North,  inquiring  for  him, 
was  told  the  cause  of  his  absence.     "  Oh,"  replied  the 

*  The  trial  took  place  in  the  Court  of  King's  Bench  on  the  22nd  of 
February,  before  Lord  Chief-Justice  Mansfield. 

f  Sir  Richard  Worseley  was  at  this  time  Member  for  Newport,  Comp- 
troller of  the  King's  Household,  and  Governor  of  the  Isle  of  Wight  ;  of 
which  island,  in  the  preceding  year,  he  had  published  a  History,  in  one 
quarto  volume,  with  engravings  of  the  principal  views,  seats,  &c,  by 
Godfrey.  On  his  death,  in  1805,  in  consequence  of  failure  of  male  issue, 
a  jointure  of  70,000/.  reverted  to  his  lady,  who  was  the  daughter  and 
co-heiress  of  Sir  John  Fleming. — Ed. 


3G4  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

Minister  pleasantly,  "  if  all  my  cuckolds  desert,  I  shall 
be  beaten  indeed." 

Tuesday  night,  late. 

At  my  niece,  Lady  Cadogan's,  this  evening,  I  met 
Mr.  Langley,  Lord  Stormont's  secretary  ;  who  gave 
me  great  pleasure,  by  telling  me  that  you  are  made 
Minister  Plenipotentiary.  I  am  glad  you  are  a  little 
richer,  when  you  must  be  at  extraordinary  expense  ; 
but  I  am  much  more  delighted  that  your  own  merits 
and  zeal  have  obtained  this  recompense,  and  that  they 
are  rewarded  so  speedily.  It  does  honour  to  the  Go- 
vernment too  ;  yet  I  doubt  you  will  not  have  the 
fuller  satisfaction  of  seeing  your  labours  terminated  by 
the  success  you  wish.  I  feel  for  those  brave  un- 
rescued  men  !* 

Poor  Mr.  Morrice  is  not  come  to  town,  nor  can  he 
come,  though  he  has  had  an  urgent  call.  Old  Lady 
Brown,f  who  was  formerly  at  Venice,  is  dead,  and  has 
left  him  for  his  life  an  estate  of  1500/.  a-year.  I  told 
you  how  little  prospect  Cavalier  Mozzi  has  of  obtaining 
assistance  from  him.  It  is  plain  this  delay  is  welcome 
to  my  Lord  ;  for  I  have  not  heard  a  syllable  from  his 
lawyers.  I  was,  indeed,  surprised  the  other  day  by  a 
letter  from  his  Lordship.  It  was  to  desire  the  favour 
of  me  to  go  and  see  a  large  picture  that  Cipriani  has 
painted  for  him  for  the  salon  at  Houghton— a  most 
engaging  sight  to  me,  to  be  sure  !     Though  such  a  re- 

*  Besieged  in  Fort  St.  Philip  at  Minorca. 

t  Margaret  Cecil,  widow  of  Sir  Rohert  Brown,  formerly  a  merchant 
at  Venice. 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  3G5 

quest  provoked  me,  I  really  believe  it  was  madness 
and  folly  dictated  it,  rather  than  insult ;  though  the 
latter  is  not  impossible.  I  would  not  trust  a  pen  in 
my  own  hand,  lest  it  should  be  warm  ;  and  so  have 
made  no  manner  of  answer.  He  has  now  bespoken 
another  piece,  frantic  enough  ;  for  the  subject  is  both 
indecent  and  shocking.  Perhaps  you  have  forgotten 
the  story  :  it  is  that  of  Theodore  and  Honoria,  from 
Dryden's  Fables,  where  the  naked  ghost  of  a  scornful 
mistress  is  pursued  by  demons  and  worried  by  blood- 
hounds.'3' The  subject,  were  it  endurable,  could  only 
be  executed  by  Salvator  or  Spagnolet.  Imagine  it 
attempted  by  modern  artists,  who  are  too  feeble  to 
paint  anything  but  fan-mounts  ! 

I  believe  I  never  told  you,  that,  since  his  Lordship 
sold  his  collection  of  pictures,  he  has  taken  to  design 

*  Of  Dryden's  story  of  the  spectre  huntsman  and  his  hlood-lioumls, 
and  of  the  scene  of  it,  the  pine-forest,  of  Ravenna,  Lord  Byron  makes 
beautiful  mention  in  the  third  canto  of  Don  Juan — 

"  Sweet  hour  of  twilight ! — in  the  solitude 

Of  the  pine-forest,  and  the  silent  shore, 
Which  bounds  Ravenna's  immemorial  wood 

Rooted  where  once  the  Adrian  wave  flow'd  o'er, 
To  where  the  last  Csesarean  fortress  stood, 

Evergreen  forest  !  which  Boccacio's  lore 
And  Dryden's  lay  made  haunted  ground  to  me, 

How  have  I  lov'd  the  twilight  hour  and  thee  ! 

"  The  shrill  cicalas,  people  of  the  pine, 

Making  their  summer  lives  one  countless  song, 
Were  the  sole  echoes,  save  my  steed's  and  mine, 

And  vesper  bell's,  that  rose  the  boughs  along  ; 
The  spectre  huntsman  of  Oresti's  line, 

His  hell-dogs  and  their  chase,  and  the  fair  throng, 
Which  learn'd  from  this  example  not  to  fly 

From  a  true  lover,— shadow'd  my  mind's  eye." — Ed. 


366  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

himself,  and  his  scratches  are  pinned  up  about  the 
stripped  apartments.  But  I  am  foolish  to  repeat  in- 
stances of  his  deliriums  ;  though,  indeed,  the  nation  is 
so  lunatic,  that  my  nephew  is  no  phenomenon.  I  saw 
your  nephew  last  night  at  Gloucester-house,  and  won- 
der he  did  not  mention  your  new  appointments  ;  but, 
indeed,  it  was  but  for  a  moment  :  nor,  in  truth, 
though  he  is  very  obliging  to  me,  and  though  I  often 
see  him  at  our  little  Court,  have  I  had  any  conversa- 
tion with  him  for  a  long  time.  The  play  there  begins 
late,  for  everything  begins  late,  everybody  arrives 
late  everywhere,  and  I  retire  early ;  for  I  avoid  all 
public  places,  and  go  to  no  other.  A  court-life  was 
never  my  object,  nor  would  have  been  my  choice  for 
this  end  of  my  course,  any  more  than  it  was  for  the 
commencement,  though  fate  has  connected  both  pe- 
riods with  such  an  attachment ;  yet  trust  I  have 
acquired  as  little  of  the  esprit  des  cours  as  if  I  had 
never  been  within  one.  How  strange  are  the  acci- 
dents of  life  !  At  ten  years  old  I  had  set  my  heart 
on  seeing  George  the  First,  and,  being  a  favourite 
child,  my  mother  asked  leave  for  me  to  be  presented 
to  him  ;  which  to  the  First  Minister's  wife  was  granted, 
and  I  was  carried  by  the  late  Lady  Chesterfield  to 
kiss  his  hand  as  he  went  to  supper  in  the  Duchess  of 
Kendal's  apartment.  This  was  the  night  but  one  be- 
fore he  left  England  the  last  time  ;  and  now,  fifty 
years  afterwards,  one  of  his  great-grandsons  and  one 
of  his  great-granddaughters  are  my  great-nephew  and 
niece  !     Yet  how  little  had  the  first  part  to  do  with 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  3G7 

bringing  about  the  second  !  When  one  considers  these 
events  abstractedly,  as  I  do,  the  reflection  is  amusing  ; 
it  makes  the  politician's  arts  trifling  and  ridiculous  : 
no  plan,  no  foresight,  no  industry,  could  have  ranged 
or  accomplished  what  mere  chance  has  effected.  It 
would  not  be  less  entertaining,  if  a  politician  would 
talk  as  frankly  on  the  projects  he  had  planned  and 
been  disappointed  of  effecting  ;  but  a  politician  would 
not  look  on  the  denouement  with  the  same  indiffer- 
ence. 


LETTER  CCCLXX. 

Berkeley  Square,  March  1,  1782. 

You  know  I  deem  myself  a  bad  political  prophet. 
I  certainly  did  not  expect  that  the  Opposition  (no 
longer  the  minority)  would  have  such  rapid  success 
as  to  have  gained  a  complete  victory  already.  I  wrote 
to  you  on  Tuesday,  that  on  the  Friday  preceding  they 
had  been  beaten  but  by  one.  On  Wednesday  last, 
General  Conway  renewed  his  motion  for  an  address  of 
pacification  with  America,  and  carried  the  question 
by  a  majority  of  nineteen."""     His  speech  was  full  of 

*  The  result  of  the  late  division  was  considered  by  the  Opposition  so 
satisfactory,  that  it  was  resolved  to  bring  the  question  again  before  the 
House.  Accordingly,  on  the  27th  of  February,  General  Conway  moved, 
"  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  the  House,  that  the  further  prosecution  of  of- 
fensive war  on  the  continent  of  North  America,  for  the  purpose  of  reduc- 
ing the  rebel  colonies  to  obedience  by  force,  will  be  the  means  of  weak- 
ening the  efforts  of  this  country  against  her  European  enemies ;  tends, 
under  the  present  circumstances,  dangerously  to  increase  the  mutual 
enmity,  so  fatal  to  the  interests  both  of  Great  Britain  and  America  ;  and, 


368  THE   HON.  HORACE  WALPOLE 

wit,  spirit,  and  severity  ;  and  after  the  debate  Mr.  Fox 
complimented  him  publicly  on  this  second  triumph, 
he  also  having  been  the  mover  of  the  repeal  of  the 
Stamp-act.  In  short,  he  stands  in  the  highest  light, 
and  all  his  fame  is  unsullied  by  the  slightest  suspicion 
of  interested  or  factious  motives  in  his  conduct.""" 

It  would  be  idle  in  me,  who  profess  want  of  penetra- 
tion or  intuition  into  futurity,  to  tell  you  what  I  think 
will  happen  ;  in  truth,  I  could  not  tell  you,  if  I  would, 
what  I  foresee.  The  public  certainly  expects  some 
sudden  change.     I  neither  do,  nor  wish  it.    At  present, 

by  preventing  a  happy  reconciliation  with  that  country,  to  frustrate  the 
earnest  desire  graciously  expressed  by  his  Majesty  to  restore  the  bless- 
ings of  public  tranquillity."  The  arguments  urged  in  support  of  the  motion 
were  nearly  the  same  as  those  employed  on  the  former  occasion.  Lord 
North  said,  it  would  be  his  duty,  if  the  House  should  withdraw  their 
confidence  from  him,  to  deliver  up  to  his  Sovereign  the  seal  of  his  office, 
and  say  to  him,  "  I  have  served  your  Majesty  with  diligence,  zeal,  and 
fidelity  ;  but  your  Parliament  have  withdrawn  from  me  their  confidence  ; 
let  me  therefore  resign  those  employments,  which  I  ought  to  keep  only 
as  long  as  I  can  be  serviceable  to  your  Majesty  and  to  the  country." 
Mr.  Wallace,  the  Attorney-General,  acknowledged  that  nothing  but 
peace  with  America  could  restore  the  country  to  its  former  state  of  splen- 
dour, and  said  that,  considering  a  truce  with  America  the  best  means 
of  obtaining  that  object,  he  intended  to  move  for  leave  to  bring  in  a  bill 
to  enable  Ministers  to  treat  upon  that  ground,  and  would  therefore  move 
that  the  debate  be  adjourned  till  that  day  fortnight.  Mr.  Pitt,  in  a  bril- 
liant speech,  censured  the  idea  of  a  truce,  and  stigmatized  the  motion 
of  adjournment  as  a  manoeuvre  to  gain  a  few  votes.  At  half-past  one 
the  House  divided  on  the  motion  of  adjournment,  which  was  negatived 
by  a  majority  of  234  to  215.  The  Government,  being  thus  left  in  a  mi- 
nority of  nineteen,  suffered  General  Conway's  motion  to  pass  without  a 
division.  The  General  then  moved  an  address  to  the  King  nearly  in 
the  words  of  the  motion  ;  which  was  presented  to  his  Majesty  by  the 
whole  House. — Ed. 

*  "  The  day  after  the  motion  passed,"  says  Sir  Samuel  Romilly, 
"  there  were  rejoicings  in  several  places  ;  the  bells  were  rung  and  a  great 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  30!) 

I  think  alteration  would  produce  confusion,  without 
any  advantage.  My  reasons  it  would  be  useless  to 
detail,  for  they  will  have  no  share  in  the  decision. 

I  would  write  these  few  words,  lest  your  nephew 
should  not ;  though  in  reality  I  have  told  you  nothing. 
You  will  just  be  prepared  not  to  be  surprised,  what- 
ever shall  arrive,  as  it  is  a  moment  which  may  pro- 
duce anything.  I  mean,  a  change,  a  partial  settle- 
ment, a  total  one,  or  a  re -settlement  of  the  present 
system ;  though  I  should  think  that,  or  a  partial 
change,  the  least  likely  to  last.  Any  one  of  them  will 
be  fortunate  if  productive  of  peace  ;  and,  at  least, 
nothing  that  has  happened  removes  that  prospect  to  a 
greater  distance.  If  I  live  to  see  that  moment,  I  shall 
be  happier  than  I  have  for  some  time  expected  to  be. 
I  dare  not  entertain  greater  views  for  my  country — 
for  a  long  season  ;  though  nations,  like  individuals,  are 
not  precluded  from  experiencing  any  change  of  for- 
tune. 

P.S.  When  you  do  not  hear  from  me  at  such  a 

many  houses  were  illuminated,  and  papers  were  cried  about  the  streets, 
'  Good  news  for  England  ;  Lord  North  in  the  dumps,  and  peace  with 
America  ! '  The  Ministers  affected  to  take  the  alarm,  and  sent  advice 
to  the  Lord  Mayor,  that  they  had  notice  of  intended  riots  ;  hut  every- 
thing was  very  peaceable."  Mr.  Burke  wrote,  on  the  same  day,  to  Dr. 
Franklin  at  Paris  :  "  I  congratulate  you,  as  the  friend  of  America  ;  I 
trust,  as  not  the  enemy  of  England  ;  I  am  sure,  as  the  friend  of  mankind, 
on  the  resolution  of  the  House  of  Commons,  carried  by  a  majority  of 
nineteen,  at  two  o'clock  this  morning,  in  a  very  full  House.  It  was  the  de- 
claration of  two  hundred  and  thirty-four  :  I  think  it  was  the  opinion  of  the 
whole.  I  trust  it  will  lead  to  a  speedy  peace  between  the  two  branches 
of  the  English  nation,  perhaps  to  a  general  peace  ;  and  that  our  happiness 
may  be  an  introduction  to  that  of  the  world  at  large." — Ed. 

VOL.  III. NEW    SERIES.  2  B 


370  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

crisis,  be  sure  that  nothing  material  has   happened. 
We  have  both  seen  inter-ministeriums  of  six  weeks. 


LETTER  CCCLXXI. 

Strawberry  Hill,  March  11,  1782. 

Though  I  begin  this  letter  to-night,  I  do  not 
know  when  it  will  set  out ;  perhaps  not  before  to- 
morrow sevennight.  I  do  not  even  know  whether  I 
shall  not  contradict  at  the  end  everything  I  may  tell 
you  at  the  beginning  ;  for  the  parties  in  the  House  of 
Commons  are  so  equally  balanced,  that  victory  vibrates 
from  the  one  side  to  the  other  every  day."''  Opposition 
stock  fell  ten  below  par  last  Friday,  on  questions  that 
tended  to  remove  the  Ministers.  As  three  of  the  four 
motions  were  undeniable,  the  Ministers  got  rid  of  them 
by  the  previous  question,  and  consequently  prevented 

*  On  the  5th  of  March,  in  the  committee  on  the  Attorney-General's 
bill  to  enable  his  Majesty  to  make  peace  or  truce  with  the  revolted  Ame- 
rican Colonies,  Mr.  Fox  said,  that  nothing  but  the  personal  respect  he 
bore  the  learned  gentleman  had  prevented  him  from  bursting  out  into  a 
laugh  when  he  heard  the  proposition,  and  then  walking  out  of  the  House. 
It  was  in  the  course  of  this  speech  that  Mr.  Fox  made  his  memorable 
declaration,  "  that,  from  the  moment  he  should  enter  into  any  terms  with 
the  present  Ministers,  he  would  rest  satisfied  to  be  deemed  the  most  in- 
famous of  mankind  :  that  he  could  not  for  an  instant  contemplate  a  coali- 
tion with  men  who,  as  Ministers,  in  every  transaction,  public  and  private, 
had  proved  themselves  devoid  of  every  principle  of  honour  or  honesty ; 
into  the  hands  of  such  men  he  would  not  trust  his  honour  for  a  single 
minute."  Lord  North  avowed  his  determination  not  to  retire  from  office 
until  he  should  receive  his  Royal  Master's  commands  to  leave  it,  or 
the  wish  of  the  House,  expressed  in  the  most  unequivocal  terms, 
should  point  out  to  him  the  propriety  of  withdrawing. — Ed. 


TO   Sill   HORACE   MANN.  :)71 

the  fourth,  which  would  have  brought  home  tlio  others 

to  their  doors.  They  carried  that  question  by  226 
to  216.""'  The  report  of  another  victory,  more  na- 
tional, favoured  them,  though  many  suspect  it  was 
coined  on  purpose.  Admiral  Hood  was  said  to  have 
defeated  the  French  fleet,  rescued  St.  Christopher's, 
and  taken  the  six  hundred  men  that  had  landed. 
This  would  be  most  fortunate ;  but  it  was  not  con- 
firmed when  I  left  town  this  morning.  In  short,  I 
came  hither  for  two  days  to  breathe,  and  rest  my  ears 
from  politics,  which  at  such  a  crisis  you  may  be  sure 
assail  them  from  morning  to  night  :  not  that  I  open 

*  Lord  John  Cavendish,  on  the  8th  of  March,  had  moved  four  reso- 
lutions. The  first  three  recounted  the  expenses  and  losses  of  the  war, 
and  the  fourth  stated,  that  the  chief  cause  of  all  these  misfortunes  had 
been  the  want  of  foresight  and  ability  in  his  Majesty's  Ministers.  Upon 
this  there  was  a  long  debate,  in  the  course  of  which  Mr.  Welbore  Ellis,  the 
new  Secretary  of  State,  alluded  to  his  having  left  a  warm  and  comfort- 
able bed  (the  Treasurership  of  the  Navy),  and  stept  into  the  ship  of  state 
in  the  midst  of  storm  and  tempest.  Mr.  Burke  said,  he  thought  the 
Right  Honourable  Secretary  very  unwise  in  quitting  his  flannel  night- 
cap and  warm  bed  for  a  post  of  danger,  and  applied  to  him  the  words  of 
Brutus  to  his  wife — 

"  Wherefore  rise  you  now  ? 
It  is  not  for  your  health,  thus  to  commit 
Your  weak  condition  to  the  raw  cold  morning." 

In  his  firm  belief,  the  bed  was  left  merely  for  the  purpose  of  introducing 
a  Scotch  warming-pan.  This  allusion  to  the  Lord  Advocate,  which  excited 
much  laughter,  received  an  appropriate  reply  :  "  I  see  no  reason,"  said 
Mr.  Dundas,  "  if  the  eager  expectations  of  the  gentlemen  opposite  should 
be  fulfilled,  why  it  should  not  be  an  Irish  warming-pan  that  is  to  be  in- 
troduced into  the  bed."  The  retort  turned  the  laugh  against  Mr.  Burke  ; 
and  scarcely  three  weeks  elapsed  before  Colonel  Barre'  was  appointed 
Treasurer  of  the  Navy.  Upon  the  order  of  the  day,  which  was  moved 
by  Mr.  Jenkinson,  the  Secretary  at  War,  the  House  divided  ;  when  Mi- 
nisters had  a  majority  of  ten,  the  numbers  being  226  to  216. — Ed. 

2  b  2 


372  THE   HON.  HORACE    WALPOLE 

them  voluntarily,  you  may  judge,  when  I  fly  hither, 
though  there  is  to  be  important  matter  in  the  House 
again  to-day,  not  a  syllable  of  which  I  shall  hear  be- 
fore Wednesday.  Lord  North  is  to  open  his  taxes, 
which  probably  just  now  will  not  be  admitted  as  sub- 
missively as  of  late  years  ;  though  I  suppose  they  will 
produce  more  clamour  in  a  little  time  than  at  their 
birth,  when  every  one  who  will  be  affected  by  them 
shall  begin  to  apply  the  grievance  to  himself,  espe- 
cially as  Opposition  will  naturally  paint  them  in  their 
worst  colours.  As  I  shall  not  go  to  town  to-morrow — 
one  of  the  two  foreign  post-days — I  could  not  send  this 
away,  were  it  farther  advanced ;  and  on  Friday,  the 
other  post -day,  I  shall  not  know  the  event  time 
enough  to  write.  The  Opposition  intend  to  give  battle 
again  on  that  day,  but  I  do  not  know  what  is  to  be 
their  cri  de  guerre ;  however,  the  field  will  be  fought 
till  it  will  be  too  late  for  the  post.  I  am  less  anxious, 
as  your  nephew  tells  me  he  writes  to  you  constantly. 

The  Ministers  are  certainly  run  hard  ;  and  if  they 
do  not  make  peace  with  America,  or  have  some  great 
victory,  though  I  do  not  guess  where  that  is  likely  to 
arrive,  they  will  have  difficulty  to  stand  their  ground. 
New  losses  will  make  their  fall  more  probable,  and 
more  dangerous.  Minorca,  we  know,  is  gone  ;  and  we 
know  what  other  places  may  follow.  The  foreign 
papers  will  ring  with  the  enormous  sum  it  has  cost 
us  to  lose  America,  &c.  I  saw  a  letter  from  abroad 
last  week,  which  said,  that  they  were  amazed  so  many 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  373 

miscarriages  had  not  overturned  the  Administration. 

They  may  wonder  ;  but,  believe  me,  deprivation  would 
be  a  feather-bed  to  what  they  hear  every  day — I  mean 
the  Ministers.  It  is  a  worse  service  than  that  of  a 
General,  lie  stands  on  a  rising  ground  out  of  cannon- 
shot,  gives  his  orders,  sees  his  soldiers  fall  or  conquer, 
and  at  most  is  quit  for  the  disgrace,  if  he  loses  the 
day.  In  Parliament,  all  the  artillery  is  pointed  at  the 
leaders,  who  are  galled  during  the  combat,  and  must 
fight  the  battle  themselves.  The  troops  sit  by,  are 
paid  beforehand,  receive  not  a  knock,  and  retire  to 
their  tents  as  soon  as  they  have  said  Yes  or  No  !  I 
wish  generals  were  in  the  same  predicament,  and  suf- 
fered all  the  wounds.  Well !  I  shall  reserve  the  rest 
of  my  paper  :  I  may  have  matter  to  fill  it. 

Saturday  16th. 

The  Tax-day  passed  very  quietly  ;  however,  it  was 
reported  and  generally  believed,  that  Lord  North  would 
resign.     Nay,  it  is  known  that  the  Chancellor  has  been 
negotiating   with    Lord    Rockingham.      Whether   too 
little  was  offered,  or  too  much  demanded,  a  resolution 
was  taken  to  try  one  more  engagement.     The  Opposi- 
tion were  very  confident  of  victory,  and  not  without 
cause  ;  for,  when  a  flag  of  truce  was  hung  out,   the 
mercenary  troop  of  Calculators  was  likely  to  desert  to 
the  side  that  was  most  likely  to  possess  the  military 
chest.     It  is  probable  that  that  chest  was  previously 
abandoned,  to  retain  them  ;  for  the  Court,  at  one  this 
morning,  had  a  majority  of  nine,  though  the  mino- 


374  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

rity  were  stronger  by  ten  votes  than  in  the  former 
battle.  * 

I  should  be  very  presumptuous,  were  I  to  attempt 
to  guess  what  will  happen,  when  brokers  themselves 
find  it  so  difficult  to  decide  which  side  has  the  best  of 
the  day.  Future  historians  may  dignify  the  contest 
with  the  distinctions  of  loyalty  and  patriotism,  and  I 
have  no  doubt  but  both  are  engaged ;  yet  I  humbly  con- 
ceive, that,  if  Potosi  lay  in  the  quarters  of  either  army, 
that  corps  would  gain  the  victory  f — perhaps  I  have 

*  On  the  15th,  Sir  John  Rous  moved  a  resolution,  which  comprehended 
the  substance  of  Lord  John  Cavendish's  four  resolutions  which  the  House 
had  rejected  in  the  preceding  week,  and  concluded  with  declaring  that 
the  House  could  have  no  further  confidence  in  the  Ministers  who  had  the 
direction  of  public  affairs.  Lord  North,  in  the  course  of  a  long  and  pa- 
thetic speech,  said,  he  not  only  wished  for  peace,  but  would  be  no  ob- 
stacle to  a  coalition  of  parties,  for  the  formation  and  adjustment  of  a 
new  Administration,  in  which  he  should  himself  have  no  share.  He  de- 
clared to  God,  that  no  love  of  place  or  of  emolument  should  keep  him  a 
moment  in  office,  if  he  could  retire  with  honour,  and  if  there  were  not 
certain  circumstances  in  the  way  of  his  going  out  at  that  moment,  which 
he  could  not  then  explain.  Mr.  Pitt  caught  hold  of  the  word  "  coali- 
tion," and  said,  if  he  knew  the  meaning  of  it,  it  was  the  collecting  and 
combining  all  the  ability,  integrity,  and  judgment  that  could  be  found  ; 
but  was  that  a  work  fit  to  be  entrusted  to  the  noble  Lord  ?  Such  a  pro- 
position was  a  gross  insult  to  Parliament  ;  as  the  administration  of  the 
noble  Lord  had  been  an  administration  of  influence  and  intrigue  :  he 
thanked  God  an  end  was  about  to  be  put  to  it,  and  he  trusted  the  House 
would  not  contaminate  their  own  purpose  by  suffering  the  present  Ministers 
to  interfere  with  the  appointment  of  their  successors.  On  the  division,  the 
numbers  were  236  for  Ministers,  and  227  against  them,  leaving  them  a 
majority  of  nine.  While  the  division  was  taking  place,  Mr.  Fox  said  in 
the  lobby,  that,  upon  consulting  with  the  gentlemen  near  him,  it  was 
thought  right  that  a  motion  to  the  same  effect  should  be  made  on  Wed- 
nesday the  20th. — Ed. 

f  "Up  to  the  19th  of  March,"  says  Wraxall,  "positive  assurances 
were  given,  in  all  the  departments,  that  no  resignation  was  intended. 
Lord  North  himself,  whatever  fluctuations  of  mind  he  might  undergo, 


TO    SIR   HORACE  MANN.  375 

given  my  opinion  to  a  degree  ;  though  the  vein  of  ore 
is  not  very  redundant. 

Monday  18th. 

Two  days  and  a  half  (a  great  while  in  curiosity's 
almanac)  are  passed,  and  no  news  of  a  resumption  of 
negotiation.  The  Marquis's  terms  were  deemed  to 
trespass  on  some  precious  neurons  in  the  Crown,  which, 
though  perhaps  new  acquisitions,  have  a  finer  water 
than  some  of  the  old  table  diamonds.  The  camps  will 
therefore  probably  remain  in  the  field  some  time 
longer,  though  not  without  skirmishes.  At  the  same 
time,  I  do  not  see  that  any  favourable  events  are 
likely  to  happen  on  the  defensive  side.  The  recovery 
of  St.  Christopher's  is  still  in  suspense,  nor  does  Hood's 
advantage  seem  at  all  to  deserve  the  name  of  victory 
— but  I  always  check  myself  when  I  can  only  conjec- 
ture ;  besides,  that  in  a  letter  that  is  to  cross  the  sea, 
I  keep  a  gag  in  my  pen ;  for  I  would  not  tell  France  a 
syllable  more  than  she  would  know  if  I  never  wrote  a 
letter. 

Yours,  that  tells  me  of  your  preferment,  I  have 
received,  and  am  rejoiced  it  was  so  well-timed ;  for 
Minorca  is  gone,  and  your  zeal  was  handsomely  ac- 
cepted, though  unsuccessful. 

personally  reiterated  those  declarations  to  his  nearest  political  connexions. 
No  man  douhted  the  firmness  of  his  Majesty,  or  suspected  him  of  aban- 
doning his  Ministers  from  personal  timidity.  Each  party,  therefore,  pre- 
pared to  try  their  force,  and  both  expressed  themselves  confident  of  suc- 
cess. Robinson,  then  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  who  knew  better  than 
any  man  the  secret  of  affairs,  has  many  times  assured  me,  that  Govern- 
ment would  have  infallibly  had  a  majority  of  from  fourteen  to  twenty,  if 
they  had  gone  to  a  division  on  the  20th."  Historical  Memoirs,  vol.  ii. 
p.  593.— Ed. 


376  THE   HON.   HORACE   WALPOLE 

Tuesday  19th. 

I  had  intended  to  finish  my  letter  to-day,  but  have 
been  hindered  by  company,  even  till  dinner-time,  and 
am  not  dressed,  and  am  engaged  the  moment  I  have 
dined.  Indeed,  I  have  nothing  new  to  add  ;  but,  if 
anything  happens  before  Friday,  I  will  desire  your  ne- 
phew to  write  ;  for  not  having  so  much  curiosity  as  the 
town,  nor  any  wish  to  see  any  particular  person  in 
place,  I  shall  go  to  Strawberry  on  Friday  for  two  days, 
as  air  and  tranquillity  are  more  requisite  to  me  than 
a  collision  of  parties.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCCLXXII. 

Berkeley  Square,  March  21,  1782. 

I  told  you  on  Tuesday  that  I  would  not  write  by 
this  post,  and  was  to  go  out  of  town  to-morrow.  You 
will  excuse  my  breaking  a  promise  that  you  did  not 
desire  me  to  keep,  especially  when  I  have  so  big  a 
revolution  to  tell  you.  Out  of  town  I  cannot  go,  for  it 
has  snowed  all  the  evening,  nor  am  I  so  perfectly  in- 
curious as  not  to  like  to  hear  the  rumours  of  the  hour  ; 
for  as  to  settlement,  I  believe  I  might  be  absent  two 
days  and  not  find  it  come  to  a  consistence — but  I 
recollect  that  you  do  not  know  what  has  happened, 
and  may  have  a  little  curiosity  too. 

Well !  yesterday,  as  a  repetition  of  the  late  mo- 
tion, somewhat  varied,  was  on  the  point  of  being  made 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  377 

iii  the  House  of  Commons,  Lord  North  rose,  and  de- 
clared the  whole  Administration  was  dissolved.'* 

You  are  not  to  imagine  that  this  declaration  was 
made  in  consequence  of  any  negotiation,  treaty,  com- 
promise, or  management.  Oh,  no  !  all  treaty  had  been 
broken  off ;  and  that  puissant  Administration,  that  had 
swept  away  everything  before  it — at  home,  have  laid 
down  their  arms  without  being  beaten,  and  without 
any  conditions.  Such  a  surrender,  not  imagined  even 
in  idea  at  Christmas,  is  very  novel.  Not  a  month  is 
passed  since  General  Conway's  successful  motion ;  not 
that  he  is  entitled  to  all  the  glory.     Lord  Cornwallis's 

*  On  the  20th,  in  anticipation  of  the  debate  on  the  renewal  of  the  mo- 
tion of  want  of  confidence  in  Ministers,  which  was  this  day  to  he  brought 
forward  by  the  Earl  of  Surrey,  no  fewer  than  four  hundred  members  had 
taken  their  seats  before  four  o'clock.  Shortly  after,  Lord  North  entered, 
and  rose  to  address  the  Chair  ;  which  created  great  confusion,  one  side 
calling  out  loudly  for  Lord  Surrey  to  address  the  House,  the  other  for 
Lord  North.  Having  at  length  obtained  a  hearing,  he  stated,  that  he 
had  come  down  to  announce  from  authority,  that  his  Majesty  had  come 
to  a  full  determination  to  change  his  Ministers,  and  that  the  Government 
was  at  an  end.  He  therefore  conceived  it  unnecessary  to  debate  a  ques- 
tion which  had  for  its  object  a  removal  already  produced.  After  return- 
ing his  acknowledgments  to  the  House  for  the  long  and  steady  support 
extended  to  him,  he  added,  that  "  a  successor  of  greater  abilities,  of 
sounder  judgment,  and  better  qualified  for  the  situation,  was  easy  to 
be  found  ;  but  that  one  more  zealous  for  the  glory  of  his  country, 
more  loyal  to  his  Sovereign,  and  more  desirous  of  preserving  the  consti- 
tution whole  and  entire,  could  not  so  easily  be  found.  Whenever  his 
country  called  on  him  to  answer  for  his  public  conduct,  he  should  be 
ready  to  meet  any  enquiry  that  might  be  thought  necessary."  He  then 
moved,  that  the  House  should  adjourn  to  Monday  the  25th,  in  order  to 
allow  his  Majesty  time  to  form  a  new  Administration.  Lord  Surrey 
reluctantly  acceded  to  the  motion,  accompanied  with  a  menace,  that,  if 
any  portion  of  the  Ministry  should  remain  in  office  on  that  day,  he  would 
come  forward  with  a  motion  still  more  personal. — Ed. 


378  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

defeat  had  certainly  opened  many  eyes,  which  had  been 
obstinately  shut  to  all  our  other  defeats  and  losses  ;  and 
an  intriguing  faction  in  the  Ministry,  who  did  not  fore- 
see the  discomfit  they  were  bringing  on  themselves, 
had  disjointed  their  combined  powers,  and  given  en- 
couragement to  the  Opposition.  When  some  of  the 
Ministers  had  declared  the  recovery  of  America  impos- 
sible, others,  who  had  been  lulled  asleep  by  that  vision, 
found  there  was  more  truth  in  that  revelation  than 
they  would  believe  from  opponents.""*  These  steps 
made,  Mr.  Conway's  motion  easily  found  its  way. 
This  is  a  brief,  but,  I  believe,  a  very  true  account  of 
what  has  past. 

For  what  is  to  come,  I  am  far  from  being  able  to 
give  you  as  just  a  view.  At  four  o'clock  to-day  not  the 
smallest  advance  had  been  made  towards  a  new  esta- 

*  The  following  is  the  character  of  Lord  North's  Administration  as 
drawn,  at  this  time,  by  Sir  Samuel  Romilly  :  "  You  desire  me  to  send 
you  characters  of  the  members  of  the  present  Government.  Their  pri- 
vate characters  I  am  quite  unacquainted  with  ;  and  it  is  not  easy  to  dis- 
tinguish their  characters  as  statesmen,  for  no  one  minister  has  appeared 
to  be  the  author  of  any  particular  measure.  All  that  has  been  done  has 
had  the  approbation  of  the  whole  Administration  ;  and  there  are  persons 
who  go  so  far  as  to  assert,  that  the  real  authors  of  all  the  proceedings  against 
America  are  still  behind  the  curtain.  Of  the  whole  Administration  taken 
together,  the  principal  characteristics  are  want  of  system  and  irresolution  ; 
and  the  latter,  indeed,  is  but  a  consequence  of  the  former.  Having  little, 
confused  views,  they  seem  never,  from  the  first,  to  have  formed  any  com- 
prehensive plan  ;  and  this  original  defect  has  increased  with  ill-success. 
Perplexed  and  confounded  with  the  mazes  and  dangers  into  which  they 
have  run,  like  children,  they  rather  turn  away  from  what  affrights  them  than 
endeavour  to  prevent  it.  They  ward  off  the  present  evil  that  presses  on 
them,  but  leave  the  morrow  to  provide  for  itself ;  they  may  truly  be  said 
in  diem  vivere.  Their  plan  of  operations  (for  system  they  have  none) 
changes  with  every  new  occurrence  ;  with  every  various  accident,  every 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  379 

blishment.  On  that  head  it  is  not  proper  to  say  more. 
I  shall  have  eighteen  or  twenty  hours  before  this  goes 
away  to  tell  you,  if  anything  new  finds  its  way  to  the 
public. 

In  your  last  you  thanked  me  for  the  advice  I  gave 
your  nephew,  which  he  was  so  wise  as  to  follow,  and 
which  proved  to  have  been  such  good  advice.  It  was 
not  solely  given  for  his  own  sake.  I  certainly  had  you 
in  my  eye  too.  But,  though  my  own  principles  are 
very  determined,  no  party  views  have  ever,  or  will, 
induce  me  to  give  insidious  counsel  to  a  friend  who 
asks  my  opinion,  nor  have  I  once  allowed  myself  to 
seduce  a  son  (and  I  look  on  your  nephew  as  your  son) 
to  act  contrary  to  the  inclination  and  sentiments  of 
his  parent  ;  I  should  think  it  most  dishonourable. 
When  your  nephew,  two  years  ago,  brought  over  opi- 
nions that  I  thought  would  grieve  you,  I  told  him 
that,    though  they  were   conformable  to  my  own,   I 

various  passion  takes  its  turn  to  rule  them  :  regarding  only  the  imme- 
diate ohject  hefore  them,  they  magnify  its  importance  ;  they  are  now 
confident  of  success,  now  plunged  into  despair.  The  idol  they  erected 
yesterday  is  cast  down  to-day,  and  perhaps  will  be  enshrined  again  to- 
morrow. In  prosperity  they  are  proud,  contemptuous,  and  overbearing  ; 
in  adversity,  supple,  mean,  and  abject.  At  the  commencement  of  the  dis- 
putes with  America,  they  treated  the  refractory  colonists  as  a  despicable 
gang'of  ruffians  ;  but,  the  moment  a  league  was  formed  with  France,  they 
prostrated  themselves  at  the  feet  of  those  rebels  they  had  spurned,  and 
offered  them  much  more  than  they  demanded.  This  panic  was  soon 
dissipated  by  a  gleam  of  success  ;  the  Ministers  resumed  confidence,  and 
one  of  them  was  imprudent  enough  to  hint,  even  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, that  '  unconditional  submission'1  was  alone  to  be  listened  to  ; 

'  Quidlibet  impotens 
Sperare,  fortunaque  dulci 
Ebrius.'  "     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  190.— Ed. 


380  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

could  not  encourage  him  in  them  ;  yet  on  neither  of 
these  occasions  did  I  even  hint  to  you,  when  it  might 
look  like  making  court  to  the  late  Ministers,  nor  cer- 
tainly did  I  act  thus  a  leur  intention* 

Well !  I  revert  to  my  old  wishes  and  prayers  for 
peace !  If  that  arises  out  of  the  present  chaos,  bene- 
dicite !  England's  tranquillity  and  welfare  are  all  my 
objects.  I  care  not  who  the  Ministers  shall  be,  pro- 
vided they  do  but  keep  those  points  in  view.  My  dis- 
like of  our  late  measures  was  founded  on  no  personal 
interests  ;  nor,  should  my  nearest  friends  be  again  em- 
ployed, as  they  were  in  1766,  shall  I  be  a  jot  more  a 
gainer  than  I  was  then.  You  were  the  only  person 
then  for  whom  I  asked  a  single  favour — one  more  than 
I  should  ask  now.  The  colour  of  my  life  has  been 
disinterested.  It  shall  not  be  contaminated  in  its 
dregs. 

22nd. 

Nothing — nothing  at  all  is  settled.  To-day's  re- 
port is,  that  Lord  Shelburne  was  yesterday  two  hours 
with  the  King.f     If  Lord  Shelburne  undertakes,  who 

*  In  the  course  of  the  several  debates  in  the  House  of  Commons  in 
this  and  the  preceding  year,  the  object  of  which  was  the  removal  of  the 
Administration,  Sir  Horace  Mann  the  younger  repeatedly  spoke  and  uni- 
formly voted  against  the  Minister. — Ed. 

t  The  day  after  Lord  North  announced  his  resignation  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  the  King  sent  for  the  Earl  of  Shelburne,  and  offered  to 
appoint  him  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  ;  but  the  Earl  informed  his 
Majesty,  that  in  his  judgment  no  one  could  at  present  fill  that  situation 
except  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham.  On  the  death  of  the  Marquis,  in 
July,  the  Earl  of  Shelburne  alluded  to  this  circumstance  in  the  House  of 
Lords.  Of  the  above  two  statesmen,  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr.  Burke  acknow- 
ledged the  Marquis  for  their  leader  ;  while  Mr.  Dunning  and  Colonel  Banc 


TO   SIR   HORACE   MANN.  381 

will  cany  very  little  strength  but  ample  unpopularity, 
1  shall  think  him  bolder  than  wise,  and  will  venture 
for  once  to  foretell,  that  he  will  only  share  in  the 
defeat  of  his  enemies,  instead  of  partaking  the  victory 
of  his  allies.  Thus  I  must  leave  you  in  incertitude  ; 
but  it  is  no  more  than  we  are — if  that  is  any  com- 
pensation.    Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCCLXXIII. 

Berkeley  Square,  March  26,  1782. 

It  is  natural  for  people  to  conclude,  that,  when  a 
whole  Administration  is  dissolved,  another  should  be 
appointed  in  its  room.  You  and  I,  who  have  lived 
longer  than  the  greater  part,  have  seen  times  when 
that  has  not  been  the  case  for  weeks ;  but  this  inter- 
ministerium  has  been  much  shorter.  On  Wednesday 
the  sentence  passed  on  the  late  Ministers.  On  Thurs- 
day evening  Lord  Shelburne  was  sent  for  to  the 
Queen's  house.  What  passed  has  been  kept  secret ; 
except  that  he  acquainted  Lord  Rockingham  by  mes- 
sage that  he  had  not  violated  their  union.  Friday 
and  Saturday  passed  without  the  public  learning  any 
news  of  an  arrangement.  On  Sunday  morning  Lord 
Shelburne  notified  to  Lord  Rockingham,  that  all  his 

looked  up  to  the  Earl  for  protection.  Of  these  four  distinguished  per- 
sons, Mr.  Fox  only  could  he  regarded  as  a  free  agent  ;  for  Mr.  Burke, 
having  lost  his  seat  for  Bristol  at  the  general  election,  owed  to  Lord 
Rockingham  his  return  for  Malton  ;  while  Calne,  the  property  of  the  Earl 
of  Shelhurne,  sent  to  Parliament  Mr.  Dunning  and  the  Colonel. — Ed. 


382  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

Lordship's  constitutional  demands  were  granted,  with 
carte  blanche  for  the  removal  and  substitution  of  per- 
sons, and  that  all  that  was  required  was  the  intro- 
duction of  Lords  Gower  and  Weymouth  into  the  Ca- 
binet. The  Marquis  was  not  pleased  at  Lord  Shel- 
burne's  having  the  honour  of  being  the  negotiator,  in- 
stead of  transacting  his  own  business  himself;  nor 
could  digest  a  Cabinet  in  which,  if  Lord  Shelburne 
should  take  a  devious  path,  and  in  which  he  would 
command  a  voice  or  two  more,  the  majority  would  not 
depend  on  the  Prime  Minister.  The  Marquis's  friends 
saw  that  he  was  falling  into  a  snare  that  might  have 
been  laid  to  divide  the  party ;  and  prevailed,  though 
with  great  difficulty,  to  waive  the  jealousy  of  the  ne- 
gotiator, but  to  resist  the  eccentric  recommendation 
of  the  two  other  Lords.  On  that  plan  Lord  Rocking- 
ham, at  six  on  Sunday  evening,  accepted  the  gracious 
offers,  provided  such  a  Cabinet  (as  he  stated  in  a  given 
List)  should  be  accorded.  This  answer  was  transmit- 
ted to  Lord  Shelburne,  and  by  him  conveyed  accord- 
ingly. The  time  pressed  :  the  House  of  Commons  was 
to  meet  on  Monday,  and  were  not  in  a  mood  to  be 
dallied  with.  Prudence  prevailed,  and  prevented — no 
matter  now  what ;  all  was  granted  and  ceded  that  Lord 
Rockingham  asked.  He  accepted ;  and  Mr.  Dunning, 
Lord  Shelburne's  friend,  moved  by  authority,  that  the 
House  should  adjourn  till  Wednesday,  declaring  that 
an  arrangement  was  ready  to  be  made."'5' 

*  Although  the  King  could  not  prevail  upon  Lord  Shelburne  to  accept 
liis  offer,  "  he  arranged,"  says  Nicholls,  in  his  Recollections  of  the  Reign 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  383 

Here  is  the  list  of  the  Cabinet — Lord  Thurlow  to 
remain  Chancellor;  Lord  Camden,  President;  Lord 
Rockingham,  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury ;  General 
Conway,  Commander-in-chief ;  Admiral  Keppel,  First 
Lord  of  the  Admiralty  ;  Lord  Shelburne  and  Charles 
Fox,  Secretaries  of  State  ;  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  Privy 
Seal  :  with  the  Duke  of  Richmond,  Master  of  the  Ord- 
nance ;  and  Lord  John  Cavendish,  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer  ;  to  have  seats  in  the  Cabinet.  This  is  all 
I  know,  and  all  I  shall  seek  to  know.  I  am  totally  in- 
different about  the  arrangement  of  places,  and  hate 
details  so  much,  that  I  am  going  out  of  town  to  avoid 
discussions  and  reports. 

of  George  the  Third,  "  the  Administration  with  him,  and  then  sent  him 
to  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham,  to  inform  him  of  the  names  of  the  gentle- 
men who  were  to  form  the  Cahinet,  and  of  the  different  offices  they  were 
to  fill.  No  man,"  he  continues,  "  was  at  that  time  more  confidential 
with  the  Marquis  than  Admiral  Keppel,  who  told  me  that  Lord  Rocking- 
ham himself  was  very  averse  to  accept  the  office  offered  him  ;  that  the 
nohle  Lord  thought  the  King  had  manifested  such  personal  dislike  to  him, 
by  refusing  him  an  audience,  and  arranging  the  Administration  with 
Lord  Shelburne,  that,  in  his  own  opinion,  he  was  not  a  fit  person  to  he  in 
the  King's  service."  Nor  would  this  reluctance,  it  is  said,  have  been 
overcome,  but  for  the  earnest  solicitations  of  Fox,  Burke,  and  the  Duke  of 
Richmond.  On  Friday  the  22nd,  the  Marquis  had  an  audience  of  the 
King,  at  which  his  Majesty  consented  to  the  conditions  proposed,  "  only 
attempting  to  stipulate,"  says  Wraxall,  "  that  two  of  his  actual  Ministers, 
the  Chancellor  and  Lord  Stormont,  should  be  included  in  the  new  Ad- 
ministration. He  could  not  obtain  such  terms,  and  it  was  only  after  con- 
siderable difficulty  that  Lord  Thurlow  was  suffered  to  retain  his  situation. 
When  the  House  of  Commons  met- again  on  Monday  the  25th,  Mr.  Dun- 
ning, an  adherent  of  the  Earl  of  Shelburne,  was  selected  and  authorized 
to  communicate  the  state  of  affairs  at  St.  James's.  Dunning,  who  forty- 
eight  hours  afterwards  kissed  his  Majesty's  hands  on  being  created  a 
peer,  informed  the  members  that  arrangements  for  the  formation  of  a  new 
Administration  were  in  great  forwardness,  and  moved  another  short  ad- 
journment till  Wednesday." — Ed. 


384  THE    HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

Well !  this  revolution  is  so  surprising,  and  by  me 
so  unexpected,  that  I  can  only  say,  with  a  change  in 
a  Scripture  phrase,  "  This  is  not  the  Lord's  doing,  but 
the  Commons',  and  it  is  marvellous  in  our  eyes  !"  If 
it  produces  the  two  points  I  have  at  heart,  the  reco- 
very of  the  Constitution  (which  it  appears  by  this 
spirit  in  the  House  of  Commons  was  not  quite  gone) 
and  peace,  I  shall  be  content,  and  will  never  think 
on  politics  more.  What  has  a  man  to  do  with  them 
who  never  felt  a  titillation  of  ambition  ?  The  spirit 
of  liberty  alone  has  made  me  at  any  time  attend  to 
them  ;  for  life  without  freedom  has  but  a  narrower 
or  a  wider  prison.  Honours  make  one  a  slave  to  eti- 
quette, and  power  to  solicitation.  A  private  man, 
who  is  uncontrouled,  is  emperor  of  himself.  I  am 
going  to  my  country  palace  ;  which  is  the  best  enjoy- 
ment that  the  greatest  monarch  knows. 

Having  dispatched  a  revolution,  I  must  now  trouble 
you  on  a  private  melancholy  affair :  General  Conway  has 
heard  from  Mrs.  Darner,  that  her  aunt  Lady  William 
Campbell  *  is  much  out  of  order.  I  immediately  ad- 
vised Mr.  Conway  to  write,  and  recommend  to  Mrs. 
Darner  to  carry  her  aunt  directly  to  Florence,  where 
you  could  be  of  the  greatest  comfort  and  assistance  to 
them,  and  could  best  contrive  means  of  sending  Lady 
William  home  by  sea  from  Leghorn,  in  as  safe  a  man- 
ner as  may  be  at  this  moment.     He  has  done  so,  and 

*  Wife  of  Lord  William  Campbell,  youngest  brother  of  the  Duke  of 
Argyll  and  Lady  Ailesbury.  Lady  William  was  an  American,  born  in 
the  province  of  Carolina  ;  of  which  Lord  William  had  been  Governor. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  385 

begs  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  give  Mrs.  Darner  your 
advice  in  this  and  any  other  point;  especially  of  a 
physician,  if  there  is  any  Dr.  Cocchi  at  Florence.  He 
desires,  too,  that  you  will  supply  her  with  what  money 
she  wants,  and  draw  upon  him  directly. 

St.  Kit's  *  has  followed  Minorca !  It  is  sad  :  yet 
let  us  save  the  Constitution,  and  I  shall  not  die  broken- 
hearted. If  England  is  free,  and  America  free, 
though  disunited,  the  whole  earth  will  not  be  in  vas- 
salage. 


LETTER  CCCLXXIV. 

Berkeley  Square,  April  7,  1782. 

As  you  have  received  my  letters  on  the  total  re- 
volution in  the  Ministry,  you  will  not  be  surprised 
that  we  have  been  occupied  by  that  event,  and  have 
not  run,  as  you  expected,  into  great  heats  on  the  loss 
of  Minorca.  It  has,  indeed,  made  no  more  impression 
than  if  the  King  had  lost  his  pocket-handkerchief.  We 
are  like  the  fishwoman,  who,  being  reproached  with  the 

*  The  old  and  valuable  English  island  of  St.  Christopher's  was  doomed 
to  he  the  next  victim  to  the  calamity  of  the  times.  In  January,  the 
Marquis  de  Bouille  landed  eight  thousand  men  on  the  island,  and  was 
supported  hy  the  Count  de  Grasse  with  thirty-two  ships  of  the  line. 
As  the  garrison  under  General  Frazer  did  not  exceed  six  hundred  effective 
men,  resistance  would  have  been  altogether  ineffectual.  De  Bouille  acce- 
lerated the  surrender,  by  threatening  to  burn  the  plantations,  and  renew 
the  devastations  which  he  had  committed  at  Tobago.  The  militia  in  the 
garrison  were  too  much  interested  in  this  menace  not  to  press  their  com- 
mander to  capitulate  ;  and  the  French  general  acceded  to  every  requisi- 
tion they  made,  regarding  either  public  or  private  property,  the  garrison, 
or  the  inhabitants  at  large. — Ed. 

VOL.  III. NEW  SERIES.  2  C 


386  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

cruelty  of  skinning  eels  alive,  replied,  "  Ah,  poor  things, 
they  be  used  to  it !"  She  mistook  her  own  habitude 
for  theirs.  "We  are  at  once  so  dissipated  and  so  ac- 
customed to  misfortunes,  that,  though  flayed  to  the 
bone,  we  forget  the  amputation  of  a  finger  in  a  moment. 
Were  the  new  arrangement  completed,  I  believe  it 
would  cause  no  more  sensation  than  the  capture  of  an 
island.  As  yet,  everybody  is  asking,  "  Who  is  to  have 
this  place,  and  who  that  1  who  are  the  new  peers  1 " 
For  Minorca,  we  are  satisfied  with  the  encomiums 
showered  on  General  Murray""  by  the  Due  de  Crillon  ; 
we  know  poor  Draper  was  mad  f — and  we  have  no 
farther  curiosity. 

The  country  and  city  seem  to  be  pleased  with  the 
change ;  yet  moderately  too.  The  disgraced  are  ex- 
tremely angry,  and  I  dare  to  say  will  show  their  re- 
sentment in  due  time  ;  but,  as  only  some  of  the  greater 
and  a  very  few  of  the  lesser  posts  are  yet  disposed  of, 
they  who  hope  to  escape  in  the  general  massacre  take 

*  Previous  to  the  surrender,  the  effective  garrison  was  reduced  to  six 
hundred.  The  surgeons  remonstrated  to  the  Governor,  that  a  further  de- 
lay of  capitulation  would  only  occasion  an  unavailing  sacrifice  of  a  few 
devoted  victims,  whom  an  enlarged  scene  of  respiration  and  wholesome 
nutriment  alone  could  rescue  from  the  jaws  of  death.  The  Due  de 
Crillon  readily  granted  honourable  terms,  and  testified  his  regret  at  the 
sight  of  this  brave  band  of  invalids,  marching  through  their  dispropor- 
tioned  ranks  to  pile  their  arms. — Ed. 

t  In  consequence  of  the  surrender  of  Minorca,  Sir  William  Draper,  who, 
in  1779,  had  been  appointed  Lieutenant-Governor  of  the  island,  exhibited 
twenty-nine  charges  against  General  Murray,  his  superior  in  command  ; 
for  doing  which,  although  the  General  received  a  reprimand  on  account 
of  two  of  them,  his  Accuser,  it  will  be  seen,  was  ordered  to  make  an 
apology.  In  1783,  Sir  William  published  some  observations  on  the 
General's  defence,  and  retired  to  Bath  ;  where  he  died  in  1  787. — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE   MANN.  387 

care  to  hold  their  tongues  ;  and  all  will  probably  lie 
still,  till  they  see  whether  the  new  Ministers  are  lenient 
or  severe.  The  recess  of  Parliament,  too,  for  the  holi- 
days, re-elections  and  usual  jaunts  into  the  country, 
and  the  never-to-be-violated  festival  of  Newmarket, 
have  dispersed  many.  The  House  of  Commons  meets 
to-morrow,  and  then  things  will  begin  to  have  a  com- 
plexion. If  the  new  Administration  can  make  a  toler- 
able peace,  and  carry  any  popular  bills,  they  may 
maintain  themselves  for  a  time  ;  yet  I  do  not  look  on 
the  present  system  as  very  stable.  Bad  as  the  last 
it  would  be  difficult  to  be  ;  and  as  ruinous  it  cannot 
be,  for  we  have  not  half  so  much  to  lose  as  we  have 
lost. 

I  do  not  send  you  lists  of  changes,  for  all  are  not 
yet  made  ;  and,  while  the  undetermined  are  in  sus- 
pense, it  would  be  only  giving  you  guesses  that  would 
want  corrections,  or  unfounded  reports."""     The  genuine 

*  Besides  the  changes  ahove  mentioned,  the  Earl  of  Carlisle  was  re- 
placed, as  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  by  the  Duke  of  Portland  ;  Mr. 
Rigby's  post  of  Paymaster  of  the  Forces  was  given  to  Mr.  Burke.  His 
brother  Richard  was  made  one  of  the  two  Secretaries  of  the  Treasury  ; 
Colonel  Barre,  Treasurer  of  the  Navy  ;  Mr.  Thomas  Townshend,  Secre- 
tary at  War ;  Mr.  Kenyon,  Attorney-General  ;  Mr.  John  Lee,  Solicitor- 
General  ;  Mr.  Sheridan  and  Mr.  Thomas  Orde,  Under-Secretaries  of 
State  ;  and  General  Burgoyne,  Commander-in-chief  in  Ireland.  "  In 
forming  their  arrangements,"  says  Dr.  Tomline,  "  the  new  Ministers 
offered  Mr.  Pitt  several  situations,  and  among  others  a  Vice-Treasurer- 
ship  of  Ireland,  an  office  of  considerable  rank  and  emolument,  which,  it 
was  thought,  would  be  more  acceptable  to  him,  as  it  had  been  formerly 
held  by  his  father  ;  but  he  resolutely  declined  this  and  every  other  offer, 
preferring  his  profession  of  the  law  to  any  official  connection  with  an 
Administration  of  which  he  did  not  form  a  part  :  he  had  indeed  determin- 
ed, as  he  soon  afterwards  declared,  never  to  accept  any  subordinate  office, 

2  c  2 


388  THE   HON.    HORACE    WALPOLE 

alterations  you  will  find  in  the  Gazette.  A  long  cata- 
logue of  new  peers  was  expected.  Only  three  have 
yet  kissed  hands  ;  Sir  Fletcher  Norton,  Dunning,  and 
Admiral  Keppel.* 

I  must  now  answer  yours  of  March  the  19th.  In  my 
last,  I  begged  you  to  assist  Mrs.  Damer  in  her  distress 
on  her  aunt's  disorder.  You  would  want  no  spur  to 
good  offices  there.  Lord  Orford,  I  hear,  is  to  be  re- 
moved from  the  Rangership  of  the  two  Parks.  It  was 
intended  by  the  new  Ministers  to  leave  him  in  the 
King's  Bedchamber;  which  out  of  respect  they  did  not 
mean  to  touch.  "Whether  his  dismission  from  the 
former  post  had  been  notified  to  him  or  not,  I  cannot 
tell.  I  should  think  it  had  ;  for  he  has  sent  his  re- 
signation of  the  Bedchamber  also,  though  saying  it  is 
on  account  of  his  lameness.  He  has  long  had  a  very 
swelled  leg,  which  I  suppose  balances  or  drains  his 
head,  and  prevents  it  from  quite  oversetting  again. 
Indeed,  as  he  has  been  so  warm  an  advocate  for  the 

meaning  an  office  which  did  not  entitle  him  to  a  seat  in  the  Cabinet.  This 
determination  did  not  proceed  from  any  overweening  self-opinion  or  repre- 
hensible ambition,  but  from  an  unwillingness  to  be  considered  as  pledged  to 
measures  in  framing  which  he  had  no  concern."  Life,  vol.  i.  p.  66. — Ed. 
*  Admiral  Keppel  was  created  a  Viscount,  and  appointed  First  Lord 
of  the  Admiralty.  On  the  subject  of  his  peerage,  he  thus  wrote,  on  the 
2nd  of  April,  to  Lord  Rockingham  :  "  I  cannot  help  thinking  that  I  ought 
to  be  well  satisfied  with  the  King's  behaviour  throughout  this  business. 
I  need  not  doubt  your  finishing  it  in  the  properest  manner,  without  any 
stipulation  as  to  the  degree  of  peerage  or  precedency  of  the  two  gen- 
tlemen of  the  law,  in  case  I  am  called  to  the  House  as  a  Baron.  They 
have  kissed  hands  before,  and  the  contention  might  breed  unpleasant  dis- 
putes, which  are  not  necessary  in  our  present  situation."  Life,  vol.  ii. 
p.  377.— Ed. 


TO    SIR   HORACE   MANN.  389 

late  abominable  system,  I  must  a  little  wonder,  if  he  is 
angry,  that  he  has  palliated  the  cause  of  his  resigna- 
tion— but  who  can  argue  on  a  lunatic  % 

It  looks  very  much  as  if  we  should  be  reconciled 
with  Holland;  and,  as  Russia  espouses  that  temper,  I 
should  hope  pacification  would  spread  farther.  How 
blessed  would  that  moment  be  !  But  we  have  another 
grievous  thorn  in  our  very  side  !  Ireland  is  little  less 
estranged  than  America  ;  and  a  most  wicked  coxcomb, 
one  Eden,  Secretary  to  the  late  Lord  Lieutenant,'""  has 
dared  to  do  his  utmost  to  heighten  the  rupture.  As 
he  had  not  sense  or  judgment  enough  to  cloak  his 
folly,  it  has  fallen  on  his  own  head  with  general  in- 
dignation ;  but,  as  Irish  heads  are  not  better  poised, 
we  fear  consequences.  You  will  see  the  detail  in  the 
papers,  too  long  for  a  letter.f      The  late  Administra- 

*  The  following  is  the  character  of  Mr.  Eden,  afterwards  Lord  Auck- 
land, as  drawn  hy  Hardy,  in  his  Memoirs  of  the  Earl  of  Charlemont : 
"  Perfectly  skilled  in  Parliamentary  language  and  management,  of  quick 
as  well  as  versatile  parts,  consummate  talents  for  business  and  corre- 
spondent industry,  he  was  well  calculated,  not  only  to  guide  the  nation 
in  its  newly-opened  path  of  commerce,  but  to  form  such  establish- 
ments as  would  advance  its  progress  therein,  and  enable  them  to  im- 
prove what  they  had  acquired.  But  for  such  acquisitions  a  more  pacific 
season  was  requisite."     Vol.  i.p.  396. — Ed. 

t  The  following  is  Sir  Samuel  Romilly's  account  of  the  proceeding 
here  referred  to  :  "  The  Ministers  seem  likely,  at  the  very  commence- 
ment of  their  administration,  to  have  great  difficulties  to  encounter  in 
the  affairs  of  Ireland.  You  know  the  Irish  have  long  talked  of  throwing 
off  the  supremacy  of  Great  Britain.  A  motion  for  that  purpose  has  been 
made  this  session  in  the  Irish  Parliament,  but  lost  by  a  very  great  ma- 
jority ;  since  which,  the  different  associations  in  Ireland  have  come  to 
resolutions  to  assert  their  independence.  This  has  been  followed  by 
tumults  at  Dublin.  Lord  Carlisle,  the  Lord  Lieutenant,  has  not  dared 
to  stir  out  of  his  Castle  ;  and  Eden,  his  Secretary,  was  near  receiving  per- 


390  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

tion  had  neglected  and  inflamed  that  business,  as  they 
have  acted  in  almost  every  other.  Such  grievous 
waste  and  negligence  appear  from  every  office,  that  it 
is  very  doubtful  whether  they  will  fall  so  lightly  as 
they  expected.  *  Though  they  will  be  very  ready  to 
accuse,  it  may  chance  that  they  will  be  accused  first. 
They  have  provoked  and  invited  four  wars,  neglected 
all,  succeeded  in  none,  rejected  every  overture  of  peace, 
while  tampering  for  peace,  and  by  profusion  and  care- 

sonal  violence  from  the  populace  as  he  was  setting  off  for  England.  The 
object  of  his  journey  was  to  bring  Lord  Carlisle's  resignation  of  his  vice- 
royalty,  and  to  represent  to  the  Ministers  the  state  of  affairs  in  Ireland  ; 
but,  on  his  arrival,  he  found  the  Ministry  changed,  and  Lord  Carlisle 
deprived  of  the  lord-lieutenancy  of  the  East  Riding  of  Yorkshire,  and 
also  of  the  vice-royalty  of  Ireland,  which  was  now  conferred  on  the 
Duke  of  Portland.  Piqued  at  this  affront,  as  he  considered  it,  to  Lord 
Carlisle,  he  refused  to  give  the  Secretaries  of  State  any  information  ;  but 
told  them  he  should,  on  the  first  day  of  the  Commons  meeting,  make  a  mo- 
tion relative  to  the  affairs  of  Ireland.  Accordingly,  last  Monday,  he  moved 
to  repeal  a  clause  in  an  act  of  George  I.  which  declares  the  supremacy 
of  the  British  over  the  Irish  Legislature.  The  Ministers,  particularly 
Fox,  complained  loudly  of  the  very  uncandid  manner  in  which  Eden  had 
behaved.  They  said,  that,  for  themselves,  having  no  information  of  the 
state  of  affairs  in  Ireland,  or  of  that  people's  demands,  they  could  not 
judge  how  far  the  measure  proposed  was  proper  ;  but  that  it  seemed,  like 
all  the  measures  of  the  late  Ministers,  designed  to  palliate,  not  eradi- 
dicate,  the  evil :  that  the  present  Ministers  intended  to  make  such  a  set- 
tlement of  the  affairs  of  Ireland  as  would  be  agreeable  to  both  countries, 
and  remove  all  fears  and  jealousies  for  the  future.  Eden  was  desired  by 
a  number  of  Members  to  withdraw  his  motion,  but  for  a  long  time  he 
refused.  General  Conway  talked  of  moving  a  vote  of  censure  on  him  : 
at  last  he  complied  with  the  wishes  of  the  House."  Life,  vol.  i. 
p.  218.— Ed. 

*  In  the  course  of  his  speech  in  the  House  of  Commons,  on  the  first 
day  of  its  meeting  after  the  adjournment,  Mr.  Fox  said,  "  that,  since  he 
and  his  colleagues  had  come  into  office,  they  had  found  many  more  in- 
stances of  the  shameful  neglect  and  mismanagement  of  the  late  Minis- 
ters even  than  they  had  suspected  ;  such  instances  of  mismanagement, 
as  would  render  public  inquiries  on  the  subject  necessary." — Ed. 


TO   SIR   HORACE    MANN.  391 

lessness  thrown  away  the  means  of  making  war  any 
longer.  As  ministers,  generals,  treasurers,  negotiators, 
they  have  proved  themselves  as  incapable  as  any  set  of 
men  who  ever  overturned  a  great  country  ;  and  in  the 
rapidity  of  their  achievements  they  have  exceeded  all. 
Strange  it  was  that  they  did  not  fall  sooner !  And 
yet  their  fall  was  instantaneous  and  unforeseen  !  My 
sentiments  about  them  have  been  uniform.  I  restrain 
rather  than  exaggerate  them.  Every  country  in  which 
we  are  concerned  testifies  to  the  truth  of  what  I  say. 
I  reap  no  advantage  from  their  fall,  nor  shall ;  fully 
content  if  peace  is  restored,  and  as  much  as  can  be 
of  our  Constitution,  credit,  and  felicity.     Adieu  ! 


LETTER  CCCLXXV. 

May  5,  1782. 

I  have  given  the  new  Administration  time  to 
breathe  ;  that  is,  I  did  not  send  you  details  of  re- 
movals'* and  preferments,  that  were  the  mere  business 

*  In  consequence  of  the  political  revolution  which  had  taken  place,  the 
Drawing-room  at  St.  James's  underwent  a  considerable  alteration  in  its 
appearance.  The  Earl  of  Hertford,  who  had  held  the  white  wand  of 
Chamberlain  for  more  than  fifteen  years,  and  whose  presence  in  the  circle 
seemed  almost  essential  to  its  existence,  was  succeeded  by  the  Duke  of 
Manchester  ;  and  Lord  Effingham  became  Treasurer  of  the  Household, 
in  the  place  of  Lord  Salisbury  ;  but  no  removal  was  more  regretted 
by  the  King  than  that  of  Lord  Bateman,  who  had  held,  during  many 
years,  the  post  of  Master  of  the  Buck-hounds.  On  the  subject  of 
these  removals,  Hannah  More  wrote  thus  :  "  It  has  affected  me  very 
much  to  hear  of  our  King's  being  constrained  to  part  with  all  his  con- 
fidential   friends,  and  his   own   personal   servants,  in   the  late  general 


392  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

of  taking  possession,  and  which  affect  individuals,  not 
the  public,  and  consequently  not  you.  Since  their 
first  entry,  the  most  notifiable  event,  of  that  sort  too, 
was  the  disposition  of  the  Garters,  given  to  one  of  the 
Princes,  to  the  Dukes  of  Richmond  and  Devonshire, 
and  to  Lord  Shelburne  ;  the  last  a  little  unprece- 
dented, as  he  is  but  a  recent  Irish  Earl,  and  a  more 
recent  English  Baron.  The  King  had  unaccountably 
reserved  four — certainly,  not  on  purpose  for  the  three 
persons  last  named  !  Lord  Ashburnham,  to  whom  one 
had  been  promised,  and  who  was  still  more  unaccount- 
ably saved,  as  Groom  of  the  Stole,  by  his  Majesty,  with 
the  Duke  of  Montagu,  when  the  new  Regents  left  him 
the  choice  of  two  for  mercy,  has  resigned  in  dudgeon, 
and  not  very  gratefully;  as  two  garters  had  certainly 
not  been  left  to  the  King's  nomination.  The  late  suc- 
cess of  Admiral  Barrington "?   against  the  equipment 

sweep.  Out  of  an  hundred  stories,  I  will  only  tell  you  one  which  concerns 
your  old  acquaintance  Lord  Bateman  :  he  went  to  the  King,  as  usual, 
over-night,  to  ask  if  his  Majesty  would  please  to  hunt  the  next  day; 
'  Yes,  my  Lord,'  replied  the  King,  '  hut  I  find,  with  great  grief,  that  I 
am  not  to  have  the  satisfaction  of  your  company.'  This  was  the  first 
intimation  he  had  of  the  loss  of  his  place."     Life,  vol.  i.  p.  251. — Ed. 

*  Lord  Keppel's  appointment,  as  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  infused 
a  new  spirit  into  the  navy  ;  and  several  distinguished  officers,  who  had 
been  excluded  from  employment,  were  immediately  restored  to  the  ser- 
vice. On  the  13th  of  April,  Admiral  the  Honourable  Samuel  Barring- 
ton  hoisted  his  flag  on  board  the  Britannia,  a  first-rate,  in  which  he  was 
despatched  with  a  squadron  to  intercept  a  French  fleet  bound  to  the 
East  Indies.  Of  these,  the  ships  under  his  command  succeeded  in  cap- 
turing eleven  out  of  eighteen  transports,  and  the  Pegase  and  l'Action- 
naire,  men-of-war  of  seventy-four  guns  and  seven  hundred  men.  The 
Pegase  was  engaged  and  captured  by  the  gallant  Captain  Jervis,  after- 
wards Earl  St.  Vincent;  who  was  separated  from  his  companions  by  a  fog. 
He  came  up  with  her  at  one  o'clock  at  night,  and,  after  a  close  engage- 


TO   SIR    HORACE  MANN.  393 

from  Brest  is  more  substantial  gilding,  and  illustrates 
the  dawn  of  the  new  system.  I  wish  I  saw  any  symp- 
toms of  peace. 

Reformation*  is  begun,  and  is  decorated  with  the 
King's  name,  who  has  given  up  many  employments  in 
the  Court  and  its  purlieus.  Other  popular  bills,  that 
aim  at  ransoming  the  House  of  Commons  from  its  late 
servility  to  the  Crown,  do  not  pass  so  glibly.  The 
Chancellor  resists  them  tooth  and  nail  in  the  other 
House,  f  and,  it  is  supposed,   will   not  want  support 

mcnt  of  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  compelled  her  to  strike.  In  his  re- 
port to  the  Admiralty  of  this  action,  Admiral  Barrington  said,  "  My  pen 
is  not  equal  to  the  praise  due  to  the  good  conduct,  bravery,  and  discipline 
of  Captain  Jervis,  his  officers  and  seamen,  on  this  occasion.  Let  his  own 
modest  narrative  speak  for  itself."  The  Admiral  also,  in  relating  to  a 
friend  the  result  of  the  squadron's  cruize,  thus  wrote :  "  But  the  Pegase 
is  everything,  and  does  the  highest  honour  to  Jervis.  What  a  noble  crea- 
ture !  were  we  all  like  him,  what  might  not  be  our  expectations  !  Is  it  not 
surprising  that  he  should  take  a  ship  of  equal  force,  without  losing  a  man  ? 
He,  poor  fellow,  has  got  an  honourable  mark  above  his  eye,  which  I  con- 
ceive will  be  of  no  bad  consequence,  rather  the  reverse ;  for,  as  a  man  of 
middle  age,  it  may  make  his  fortune.  The  fair  honour  the  brave, 
and,  we  suppose,  delight  in  kissing  the  honourable  mark."  See  the  inter- 
esting and  very  valuable  Memoirs  of  Earl  St.  Vincent,  by  J.  S.  Tucker, 
Esq.,  vol.  i.  p.  74. — Ed. 

*  The  great  plan  of  reform  and  economy  in  the  Civil  List  expenditure 
was  again  brought  forward  by  Mr.  Burke,  now  become  Paymaster  of  the 
Forces,  and  introduced  to  the  House  of  Commons,  on  the  15th  of  April, 
by  a  Message  from  the  King,  recommending  "  the  consideration  of  an 
effectual  plan  of  economy  through  all  the  branches  of  the  public  expen- 
diture, and  stating  that  he  had  taken  into  his  actual  consideration  a  re- 
form and  regulation  in  his  Civil  expenditure,  which  he  would  shortly 
cause  to  be  laid  before  the  House."  The  address  thereon  was  moved  by 
Mr.  Burke  ;  who,  in  the  beginning  of  May,  brought  in  his  celebrated  Bill 
to  carry  into  a  law  the  retrenchments  which  his  Majesty  proposed  to 
make  in  the  Royal  Household. — Ed. 

t  Two  bills,  one  to  prevent  Contractors  from  sitting  in  Parliament, 
and  the  other  for  excluding  Officers  of  the  Excise  and  Customs  from  voting 


394  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

from  his  former  associates  in  due  time,  nor  perhaps 
from  some  of  his  new.  These  hints  will  prevent  your 
surprise,  should  the  new  machine  receive  any  jolt. 
There  is  another  public  business  on  the  carpet,  not 
connected  with  politics,  that  is  no  small  one.  Sir 
Thomas  Rumbold,  a  Nabob,  swelled  from  nothing  to 
a  million,  is  likely  to  be  obliged  to  disgorge. 

A  much  more  important,  Ireland,  is  yet  unsettled. 
It  must  be  settled,  and  to  their  own  liking.  These 
outlines  will  help  you  to  a  clue  through  the  news- 
papers— I  pretend  to  no  more. 

One  of  the  Duchess  of  Gloucester's  daughters  is  mar- 
ried ;  the  ceremony  took  place  this  morning.  I  am 
just  come  from  Lady  Laura's  wedding  with  her  cousin, 
Lord  Chewton,*  at  Gloucester  House.  The  Duke  him- 
self gave  her  away.  I  am  returning  thither  for  the 
Court  at  night,  when  the  Duchess  receives  compliments : 
but  the  married  pair  are  gone  out  of  town,  though 
it  is  the  depth  of  winter.  Never  was  there  such  a 
spring !     After  deluges  of  rain,  we  have  had  an  east 

at  Elections,  were  speedily  carried  through  the  House  of  Commons  ;  but  in 
their  passage  through  the  Lords  they  experienced  opposition  from  the 
Chancellor,  as  well  as  from  Lords  Mansfield  and  Loughborough. 
"  Thurlow,"  says  Wraxall,  "  while  holding  in  his  hand  the  Great  Seal, 
and  in  his  own  person  a  member  of  the  Cabinet,  expressed,  with  that 
gloomy  indignation  which  characterized  his  style  of  speaking,  the  dis- 
approbation that  he  felt  at  such  inroads  on  the  majesty  of  the  Crown,  as 
well  as  on  the  franchises  of  the  subject.  Unawed  by  the  appearance  of 
Fox  and  Burke,  who,  to  show  the  interest  they  took  in  their  success, 
usually  appeared  on  the  steps  of  the  Throne  while  the  bills  were  debat- 
ing, the  Chancellor  animadverted  upon  them  with  the  utmost  severity, 
and  divided  in  the  minority." — Ed. 

*  George  Waldegrave,  eldest  son  of  John,  third  Earl  of  Waldegrave  ; 
whom  he  succeeded  in  the  title  in  1784. 


TO    SIR   HORACE    MANN.  395 

wind  that  has  half-starved  London  ;  as  a  fleet  of  col- 
liers cannot  get  in.  Coals  were  sold  yesterday  at  seven 
guineas  a  chaldron  ;  nor  is  there  an  entire  leaf  jet  on 
any  tree.  Yet  I  can  prove  it  is  past  the  first  of  May 
by  a  bon-mot  of  George  Selwyn  that  is  much  in 
fashion.  He  called  on  me  that  morning  (the  day  the 
milk-maids  and  chimney-sweepers  dance  about  with 
garlands)  :  "  We  have  heard  so  much  lately,"  said  he, 
"  of  the  Majesty  of  the  People,  that,  meeting  the  chim- 
ney-sweepers with  their  crowns  of  gilt  paper,  I  sup- 
pose they  are  taken  for  the  Princes  of  the  People,  and 
that  this  is  a  Collar-day."  * 

When  are  you  to  have  the  Pope  returned  on  your 
hands  1  I  hear  the  Emperor  walled  up  every  door  but 
one  of  the  palace  in  which  he  is  lodged,  and  set  guards 
at  it. 

Your  last  is  of  April  the  1 3th.  You  had  not  then 
heard  of  the  Revolution,  but  was  still  talking  of  Minorca ; 
which  was  totally  absorbed  in  the  late  change,  and  has 
not  emerged  since,  nor  do  I  think  it  will,  at  least  not 
from  want  of  matter.  Such  a  revulsion  as  the  late 
one  may  stun  ;  it  does  not  compose.  Virtue  and  re- 
formation may  give  the  new  Ministers  some  momentary 

*  The  following  is  Hannah  Move's  version  of  George's  bon-mot : 
"  Lord  Pembroke  came  in  laughing ;  I  asked  what  diverted  him.  He 
told  me  he  had  met  George  Selwyn,  who  found  himself  very  much  annoyed 
in  the  street  with  chimney-sweeping  hoys  ;  they  were  very  clamorous  ; 
surrounded,  daubed,  and  persecuted  him  ;  in  short,  they  would  not  let 
him  go,  till  they  had  forced  money  from  him  :  at  length  he  made  them  a 
low  bow,  and  cried,  '  Gentlemen,  I  have  often  heard  of  the  Mujesty  of 
the  People  ;  I  presume  your  Highnesses  are  in  Court  mourning.'  "  Life, 
vol.  i.  p.  254.— Ed. 


396  THE   HON.    HORACE   WALPOLE 

popularity,  but  it  will  not  be  equally  durable  with 
the  resentment  of  the  displaced  and  the  cashiered  ;  nor 
do  I  take  the  late  crew  to  be  so  punctilious  as  the  late 
Opposition  :  nor  is  the  nation  so  very  virtuously  dis- 
posed, as  to  be  genuine  admirers  of  reformation.  People 
must  be  wondrously  changed,  if  they  vote  as  readily 
from  esteem  as  they  used  to  do  for  pay.  Esteem  is  no 
principle  of  union.  When  men  are  paid,  they  must 
vote  for  what  they  are  bidden  to  vote.  They  will 
have  a  thousand  vagaries  when  at  liberty  to  vote  for 
what  they  fancy  right  or  not.     The  Ministers"""  must 

*  The  state  of  the  Rockingham  Administration  in  May  1782,  is  thus 
described  by  Nicholls  :  "  The  Cabinet  was  composed  of  eleven  :  five 
Rockinghams,  five  Shelburnes,  the  King  retaining  one,  viz.  Lord  Thurlow. 
Every  man  saw  that  such  a  Cabinet  was  formed  for  contention,  and  that 
it  could  not  long  hold  together.  Every  day  brought  forth  new  proof  of 
the  hatred  of  the  parties  to  each  other.  The  Rockinghams  everywhere 
abused  Lord  Shelburne  for  want  of  good-faith.  The  reply  of  the  Shel- 
burnes was,  that  they  were  noways  pledged  to  Lord  Rockingham.  If 
any  man  applied  to  Lord  Rockingham  for  an  employment,  and  failed  to 
obtain  it,  he  had  but  to  signify  this  the  next  day  to  the  Earl  of  Shelburne, 
who  immediately  got  the  place  for  him.  On  the  other  hand,  if  a  man 
went  first  to  the  Earl  of  Shelburne,  his  answer  was,  *  You  should  not 
apply  to  me,  I  am  not  the  Minister  :  Lord  Rockingham  is  the  Minister  ; 
he  is  the  man  to  whom  you  should  apply.'  I  had  an  acquaintance  who 
succeeded  with  both  of  them  :  it  was  Humphrey  Sturt,  the  Member  for 
Dorsetshire.  He  applied  to  Lord  Rockingham  for  a  writership,  in  Ben- 
gal, for  a  younger  son.  Lord  Rockingham  answered,  '  After  the  support 
you  have  uniformly  given  us,  Mr.  Sturt,  you  certainly  are  entitled  to  ask 
for  such  a  favour  ;  you  shall  have  it.'  A  few  days  after,  Mr.  Sturt  met 
the  Earl  of  Shelburne  riding  in  the  Park.  '  Why,  Sturt,'  said  the  Earl, 
'  how  could  you  think  of  applying  to  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham  for  a 
writership  for  your  son  ?  I  thought  it  would  suit  you,  and  I  kept  a  Ben- 
gal writership  for  you.'  '  My  Lord,  I  have  another  younger  son  ;  give 
me  your  writership  for  him.'  Lord  Shelburne  could  not  disengage  him- 
self from  this  voluntary  offer,  and  Humphrey  Sturt  got  both  the  writer- 
ships."     Recollections,  p.  46. — En. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  397 

continually  propose  or  support  popular  questions,  or 
even  yield  to  those  who  are  running  races  of  popu- 
larity with  them  ;  while  the  advocates  for  prerogative 
are  crying  out  against  inroads  made  on  it.  All  this, 
I  have  no  doubt,  will  happen,  unless  some  master- 
genius  gains  the  ascendant.  Mr.  Fox  alone  seems  to 
be  such  a  man.  He  already  shines  as  greatly  in  place 
as  he  did  in  opposition,  though  infinitely  more  difficult 
a  task.  He  is  now  as  indefatigable  as  he  was  idle. 
He  has  perfect  temper,  and  not  only  good-humour  but 
good-nature  ;  and,  which  is  the  first  quality  in  a  Prime 
Minister  in  a  free  country,  has  more  common  sense 
than  any  man,  with  amazing  parts,  that  are  neither 
ostentatious  nor  affected.  Lord  North  had  wit  and 
good-humour,  but  neither  temper,  nor  feeling,  nor  ac- 
tivity, nor  good-breeding.  Lord  Chatham  was  a  blaz- 
ing meteor  that  scattered  war  with  success,  but  sunk 
to  nothing  in  peace.  Perhaps  I  am  partial  to  Charles 
Fox,  because  he  resembles  my  father  in  good-sense — 
I  wish  he  had  his  excellent  constitution  too  ;  yet  his 
application  to  business  may  preserve  his  life,  which  his 
former  dissipation  constantly   endangered.'""     Another 

*  "  This  session,"  says  Nicholls,  in  his  Recollections,  "  was  the  glo- 
rious campaign  of  Charles  Fox  :  his  health  was  entire,  his  troops  followed 
him  with  confidence  ;  he  felt  that  he  was  gaining  ground  on  every  debate, 

'  His  spirit  lent  a  fire 
E'en  to  the  meanest  peasant  in  the  camp.' 

I  still  retain  the  remembrance  of  the  pleasure  which  I  experienced  from 
the  events  of  that  session  ;  and,  whatever  mistakes  Charles  Fox  might 
afterwards  make,  the  service  he  did  his  country  at  that  time  can  never  be 
forgotten.  His  exertions  terminated  the  contest :  had  it  been  continued 
much  longer,  the  country  must  have  sunk."     Speaking  of  Mr.  Fox  in  the 


398  THE   HON.  HORACE   WALPOLE 

advantage  we  have  is  in  Mr.  Conway's  being  at  the 
head  of  the  Army.  With  him  nobody  stands  in  com- 
petition. His  military  knowledge  is  unquestionably 
without  a  rival.  His  predecessor,  Lord  Amherst,  was 
as  much  below  all  rivals.  There  is  no  word  for  him 
but  downright  stupidity.  Had  five  thousand  French 
landed  while  he  commanded,  he  was  totally  incapable 
of  preparing  or  putting  in  motion  the  least  opposition. 
I  could  tell  you  facts  that  would  not  be  believed, 
though  known  to  every  ensign  in  the  army.  The  Fleet 
will  now  be  united,  and  want  none  of  its  best  officers. 
Lord  Sandwich,  though  certainly  a  man  of  abilities, 
was  grown  obstinate,  peevish,  intractable,  and  was  not 
born  for  great  actions.  He  loved  subtlety  and  tricks 
and  indirect  paths,  qualities  repugnant  to  genius- 
Still,  I  conclude,  as  I  used  to  do  before  the  change, 
let  us  have  peace  !  We  certainly  are  so  far  nearer  to 
it,  that  these  Ministers  will  leave  nothing  vigorous 
unattempted  while  the  war  lasts.  The  last  neither 
thought  of  peace,  nor  took  one  proper  step  towards 
success  in  the  war.  The  nation  must  have  been  ut- 
terly undone,  had  they  remained  a  year  longer  in 
power.  They  thought  their  power  secure,  and  really 
cared  about  nothing  else  ;  and  many  of  them  and  all 
their  tools  and  creatures  wished  for,  and  talked  for, 

following  year,  Mr.  Burke  said,  "  He  has  faults  ;  but  they  are  faults  that, 
though  they  may  in  a  small  degree  tarnish  the  lustre  and  sometimes 
impede  the  march  of  his  abilities,  have  nothing  in  them  to  extinguish 
the  fire  of  great  virtues.  In  those  faults  there  is  no  mixture  of  deceit,  of 
hypocrisy,  of  pride,  of  ferocity,  of  complexioned  despotism,  or  want  of 
feeling  for  the  distresses  of  mankind." — Ed. 


TO    SIR    HORACE    MANN.  ,^99 

arbitrary  power,  as  a  compensation  for  all  our  mis- 
fortunes and  disgraces.  Indeed,  I  tell  you  the  truth. 
I  have  seen  it  and  known  it  long,  and  have  not  the 
smallest  private  interest  in  my  opinions.  From  my 
father's  death  to  my  own  it  will  be  evident,  that  I 
never  received  a  favour  for  myself  from  any  other 
Minister  of  whatever  party. 


END    OF    THE    THIRD    VOLUME. 


LONDON: 

Printed  by  S.  &  J.  Bentley,  Wilson,  and  Fley, 

Bangor  House,  Shoe  Lane. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  LOS  ANGELES 

THE  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARY 

This  book  is  DUE  on  the  last  date  stamped  below 


■■-■uRl. 

'  i  1981 


Form  L-0 
25m-10,'44C2401> 


uc 


SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY '  JACIL'H 


AA      000  191  598    2 


3   1158  00631    0253 


DA 
483 

WlA32m 
ser.2 

V.3 


