b^^ 


'o  0 


8    1    A 


LETTERS 


,l*M®MAg    ©^AT* 


TWO    VOLUMES    IN    ONE. 


BOSTON : 

WELLS  AND    LILLY,    COUkT-ETRlET. 
1820. 


THC 

LETTERS 


■ffffi®ffiAS    ©EAm 


CHRONOLOGICALLY   ARRANGED 


FROM    THE 


WALPOLE  AND  MASON  COLLECTIONS, 


VOL.    I. 


MDCCCXX. 


DANIEL  LLOY'H 
AUG.     1.S64 


Most  of  the  numerous  editions  of  the  Poeti- 
cal Works  x)f  Gray  have  his  Biography  pre- 
fixed, from  the  materials  furnished  by  Mr. 
Mason's  Memoirs.  The  present  edition  of  his 
correspondence  professes  to  give  his  "  Let- 
ters" only.  The  Orford  collection  has  fur- 
nished fourteen,  which  have  been  inserted 
in  their  proper  places  ;  but  the  notes,  ex- 
cepting a  few  marked  B.  (Lord  Orford's  edi- 
txjr,  Mr.  Berry)  are  taken  from  Mr.  Mason's 
edition. 

The  propriety  of  retaining  the  few  Let- 
ters of  Gray's  early  friend,  Mr.  West,  will 
be  readily  admitted  by  the  reader. 


LETTERS 


THOMAS    GRAY. 


I. 

FROM    MR.    WEST*    TO    MR.    GRAY. 

You  use  me  very  cruelly  :  you  have  sent 
me  but  one  letter  since  I  have  been  at  Ox- 
ford, and  that  too  agreeable  not  to  make  me 
sensible  how  great  my  loss  is  in  not  having 
more.  Next  to  seeing  you  is  the  pleasure 
of  seeing  your  hand-writing  ;  next  to  hear- 
ing you  is  the  pleasure  of  hearing  from  you. 

*  Mr.  West's  father  was  lord  chancellor  of  Ireland.  His  grand- 
father,  by  the  mother,  the  famous  bishop  Burnet.  He  removed 
from  Eton  to  Oxford,  about  the  same  time  that  Mr,  Gray  left  that 
place  for  Cambridge.  In  April,  1738,  he  left  Christ  Church  for 
the  Inner  Temple,  and  Mr.  Gray  removed  from  Peterhouse  to 
town  the  latter  end  of  that  year  ;  intending  also  to  apply  himself 
to  the  study  of  the  law  in  the  same  society. 


Really  and  sincerely  I  wonder  at  you,  that 
you  thought  it  not  worth  while  to  answer 
my  last  letter.  I  hope  this  will  have  better 
success  in  behalf  of  your  quondom  school- 
fellow ;  in  behalf  of  one  who  has  walked 
hand  in  hand  with  you,  like  the  two  chil- 
dren in  the  wood, 

Through  many  a  flowery  path  and  shelly  grot, 
Where  learning  luU'd  us  in  her  private  maze. 

The  very  thought,  you  see,  tips  my  pen 
with  poetry,  and  brings  Eton  to  my  view. 
Consider  me  very  seriously  here  in  a  strange 
country,  inhabited  by  things  that  call  them- 
selves doctors  and  masters  of  arts  ;  a  coun- 
try flowing  with  syllogisms  and  ale,  where 
Horace  and  Virgil  are  equally  unknown ; 
consider  me,  I  say,  in  this  melancholy  light, 
and  then  think  if  something  be  not  due  to 

Yours. 

Christ  Church,  Nov.  14,  1735. 

P.  S.  I  desire  you  will  send  me  soon, 
and  truly  and  possitively,  a  History  of  your 
own  time.* 

*  Alluding  to  his  g;randfatber*s  history. 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  7 

II. 

TO    MR.    WEST> 

Permit  me  again  to  write  to  you,  though  I 
have  so  long  neglected  my  duty,  and  forgive 
my  brevity,  when  I  tell  you,  it  is  occasioned 
wholly  by  the  hurry  I  am  in  to  get  to  a 
place  where  I  expect  to  meet  with  no  other 
pleasure  than  the  sight  of  you  ;  for  I  am 
preparing  for  London  in  a  few  days  at  fur- 
thest. I  do  not  wonder  in  the  least  at  your 
frequent  blaming  my  indolence,  it  ought 
rather  to  be  called  ingratitude,  and  I  am 
obliged  to  your  goodness  for  softening  so 
harsh  an  appellation.  When  we  meet,  it 
will,  however,  be  my  greatest  of  pleasures 
to  know  what  you  do,  what  you  read,  and 
how  j^ou  spend  your  time,  &€.  &c.  and  to  tell 
what  I  do  not  read,  and  how  I  do  not,  &c.  for 
almost  all  the  employment  of  my  hours  may 
be  best  explained  by  negatives  ;  take  my  word 
and  experience  upon  it,  doing  nothing  is  a 
most  amusing  business  ;  and  yet  neither  some- 
thing nor  nothing  gives  me  any  pleasure. 
When  you  have  seen  one  of  my  days,  you 
have  seen  a  whole  year  of  my  life  ;  they  go 
round  and  round  like  the  blind  horse  in  the 
mill,  only  he  has  the  satisfaction  of  fancying 


8  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

he  makes  a  progress,  and  gets  some  ground  ; 
my  eyes  are  open  enough  to  see  the  same 
dull  prospect,  and  to  know  that  having  made 
four-and-twenty  steps  more,  I  shall  be  just 
where  I  was  :  I  may,  better  than  most  peo- 
ple, say  my  life  is  but  a  span,  were  1  not 
afraid  lest  you  should  not  believe  that  a  per- 
son so  short  lived  could  write  even  so  long 
a  letter  as  this  ;  in  short,  I  believe  I  must 
not  send  you  the  history  of  m^^  own  time, 
till  1  can  send  you  that  also  of  the  Refor- 
mation.* However,  as  the  most  undeserv- 
ing people  in  the  world  must  sure  have  the 
vanity  to  wish  somebody  had  a  regard  for 
them,  so  I  need  not  wonder  at  my  own,  in 
being  jdeased  that  you  care  about  me.  You 
need  not  doubt,  therefore,  of  having  a  first 
row  in  the  front  box  of  my  little  heart,  and 
I  believe  you  are  not  in  danger  of  being 
crowded  there  ;  it  is  asking  you  to  an  old 
play,  indeed,  but  you  will  be  candid  enough 
to  excuse  the  whole  piece  for  the  sake  of  a 
i^ew  tolerable  lines. 

For  this  little  while  past  I  have  been 
playing  with  Statins  ;  we  yesterday  had  a 
game  at  quoits  together  :  you  will  easily  for- 

*  CaiT)'ing  on  the  a,llusJon  to  the  other  history  wiitten  by  Mi'. 
West's  granilfather. 


gray's  letters.  9 

giFe  me  for  having  broke  his  head,  as  you 
have  a  little  pique  to  him.  I  send  you  my 
translation,  which  I  did  not  engage  in  be- 
cause I  liked  that  part  of  the  poem,  nor  do 
I  now  send  it  to  you  because  I  think  it  de- 
serves it,  but  merely  to  show  you  how  I 
mispend  my  days. 

Third  in  the  labours  of  the  Disc  came  on, 
With  sturdy  step  and  slow,  Hippomedon,  &c.* 
Cambridge,  May  8,  1736. 


Til. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

1  AGREE  with  you  that  you  have  broke  Sta- 
tius's  head,  but  it  is  in  like  manner  as  Ap- 
pollo  broke  Hyacinth's,  you  have  foiled  him 
infinitely  at  his  own  weapon  :  I  must  insist 
on  seeing  the  rest  of  your  translation,  and 
then  I  will  examine   it  entire,  and  compare 

•  See  Poem.?.  As  all  the  fragments  and  posthumous  pieces  of 
poetry  have  been  included  in  the  later  editicms  of  Mr.  Gray's 
poetical  works,  it  has  not  been  always  thought  necessaiy  to  give 
them  at  large  in  this  edition  of  his  "  Letters  ••"  an  exception  to 
this  rule  has  however  been  made  in  favour  of  Mr.  West's  poems  ; 
and  tiiepoe^nata  of  Mr.  Gray  sometimes  could  not  be  omitted  with- 
out violence  to  his  con"espondencc. 


10  gray's  letters. 

it  with  the  Latin,  and  be  very  wise  and  se- 
vere, and  put  on  an  inflexible  face,  such  as 
becomes  the  character  of  a  true  son  of  Aris- 
tarchus,  of  hypercritical  memory.  In  the 
mean  while, 

And  calm'd  the  terrors  of  his  claws  in  gold, 

is  exactly  Statius — Summos  auro  mansueve- 
rat  ungues.  I  never  kn-ew  before  that  the 
golden  fangs  on  hammercloths  were  so  old  a 
fashion.  Your  Hymeneal  I  was  told  was 
the  best  in  the  Cambridge  collection  before 
I  saw  it,  and,  indeed,  it  is  no  great  compli- 
ment to  tell  you  I  thought  it  so  when  I  had 
seen  it,  but  sincerely  it  pleased  me  best. 
Methinks  the  college  bards  have  run  into  a 
strange  taste  on  this  occasion.  Such  soft 
unmeaning  stuff  about  Venus  and  Cupid,  and 
Peleus  and  Thetis,  and  Zephyrs  and  Dryads, 
was  never  read.  As  for  my  poor  little  Ec- 
logue, it  has  been  condemned  and  beheaded 
by  our  Westminster  judges;  an  exordium  of 
about  sixteen  lines  absolutely  cut  off,  and  its 
other  limbs  quartered  in  a  most  barbarous 
manner.  I  will  send  it  you  in  my  next  as 
my  true  and  lawful  heir,  in  exclusion  of  the 
pretender,  who  has  the  impudence  to  appear 
under  my  name. 

As  yet  I  have  not  looked  into  sir  Isaac. 
Public  disputations    I   hate;    mathematics   I 


gray's  letters.  1| 

reverence;  history,  morality,  and  natural 
philosphy  have  the  greatest  charms  in  my 
eye;  but  who  can  forget  poetry?  they  call  it 
idleness,  but  it  is  surely  the  most  enchanting 
thing  in-the  world,  "ac  dulce  otium  etpaene 
omni  negotio  pulchrius." 

I  am,  dear  sir,  yours  while  I  am 

R.  W. 

Christ  Church,  May  24,  1736. 


IV. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

You  must  know  that  I  do  not  take  degrees, 
and,  after  this  term,  shall  have  nothing  more 
of  college  impertinences  to  undergo,  which  I 
trust  will  be  some  pleasure  to  you,  as  it  is  a 
great  one  to  me.  I  have  endured  lectures 
daily  and  hourly  since  I  came  last,  supported 
by  the  hopes  of  being  shortly  at  full  liberty 
to  give  myself  up  to  my  friends  and  classical 
companions,  who,  poor  souls!  though  I  see 
them  fallen  into  great  contempt  with  most 
people  here,  yet  I  cannot  help  sticking  to 
them,  and  out  of  a  spirit  of  obstinacy  (I 
think)  love  them  the  better  for  it;  and,  in- 
deed, what  can  I  do  else?  Must  I  plunge  into 


12 

metaphysics?      AlasI    I    cannot   see  in  the 
dark;  nature  has  not  furnished  me  with  the 
optics  of  a  cat.     Must  I  pore  upon  mathe- 
tics?  AlasI  I  cannot  see  in  too  much  light;  I 
am  no  eagle.     It  is  very  possible  that  two 
and  two  make  four,  but  I  would  not  give  four 
farthings  to  demonstrate  this  ever  so  clearly; 
and  if  these  be  the  profits  of  life,  give  me 
the  amusements  of  it.     The  people  I  behold 
all   around  me,  it  seems,  know  all  this  and 
more,  and  yet  I  do  not  know  one   of  them 
who  inspires  me  with  any  ambition  of  being 
like  him.     Surely  it  was  of  this  place,  now 
Cambridge,    but    formerly    known    by    the 
name  of  Babylon,  that  the  prophet  spoke 
when  he  said,  "the  wild  beasts  of  the  desert 
shall  dwell  there,  and  their  houses  shall  be 
full  of  doleful  creatures,  and  owls  shall  build 
there,  and  satyrs  shall   dance   there;  their 
forts  and  towers  shall  be  a  den  forever,  a  joy 
of   wild    asses;  there    shall    the  great  owl 
make  her  nest,  and  lay  and  hatch  and  gather 
under  her  shadow;  it  shall  be    a  court   of 
dragons;    the   screech   owl    also   shall   rest 
there,  and  find  for  herself  a  place  of  rest." 
You  see  here  is  a  pretty  collection  of  deso- 
late animals,  which  is  verified  in  this  town  to 
a  tittle,  and  perhaps  it   may  also  allude  to 
your  habitation,  for  you  know  all  types  may 


gray's  letters.  13 

be  taken  by  abundance  of  handles;  however, 
I  defy  your  owls  to  match  mine. 

If  the  default  of  your  spirits  and  nerves 
be  nothing  but  the  effect  of  the  hyp,  I  have 
no  more  to  say.  We  all  must  submit  to  that 
wayward  queen;  I  too  in  no  small  degree 
own  her  sway. 

I  feel  her  mfluence  while  I  speak  her  power. 

But  if  it  be  a  real  distemper,  pray  take  more 
care  of  your  health,  if  not  for  your  own  at 
least  for  our  sakes,  and  do  not  be  so  soon 
weary  of  this  little  world:  I  do  not  know 
what  refined*  friendships  you  may  have 
contracted  in  the  other,  but  pray  do  not  be 
in  a  hurry  to  see  your  acquaintance  above; 
among  your  terrestrial  familiars,  however, 
though  I  say  it  that  should  not  say  it,  there 
positively  is  not  one  that  has  a  greater  es- 
teem for  you  than 

Yours  most  sincerly,  &c. 

Peterhouse,  Dec.  1736. 

•  Perhaps  he  meant  to  ridicule  the  affected  maimar  of  Mrs, 
Howe's  letters  from  the  dead  to  tjie  living. 


14  gray's  letters. 

V. 

-FROM    MR.    WEST. 

I  CONGRATULATE  you  On  jouF  being  about  to 
leave  college,*  and  rejoice  much  you  carry 
no  degrees  with  you.  For  [  would  not  have 
You  dignified,  and  I  not,  for  the  world,  you 
would  have  insulted  me  so.  My  eyes,  such 
as  they  are,  like  yours,  are  neither  meta- 
physical nor  mathematical;  I  have,  never- 
theless, a  great  respect  for  your  connois- 
seurs that  way,  but  am  always  contented  to 
be  their  humble  admirer.  Your  collection 
of  desolate  animals  pleased  me  so  much: 
but  Oxford,  I  can  assure  you,  has  her  owls 
that  match  yours,  and  the  prophecy  has  cer- 
tainly a  squint  that  way.  Well,  you  are 
leaving  this  dismal  land  of  bondage,  and 
which  way  are  you  turning  your  face?  Your 
friends,  indeed,  may  be  happy  in  yoti,  but 
what  will  you  do  with  your  classic  compan- 
ions?    An  imi  of  court  is  aS  hotfid  a  place 

*  I  suspect  that  Mr  West  mistook  his  correspondent;  who,  in 
saying  he  did  not  take  degrees,  meant  only  to  let  his  friend  know 
that  he  should  soon  be  released  from  lectures  and  disputations.  It 
is  certain  that  Mr.  Gray  continued  at  college  near  two  years  after 
the  time  he  wrote  the  preceding  letter. 


gray's  letters.  13 

as  a  college,  and  a  moot  case  is  as  dear  to 
gentle  dulness  as  a  syllogism.  But  where- 
ever  you  go,  let  me  beg  you  not  to  throw- 
poetry,  "like  a  nauseous  weed  away;"  che- 
rish its  sweets  in  your  bosom;  they  will 
serve  you  now  and  then  to  correct  the  dis- 
gusting sober  follies  of  the  common  law, 
misce  stultitiam  consiiiis  brevem,  dulce  est 
desipere  in  loco;  so  said  Horace  to  Virgil, 
those  two  sons  of  Anac  in  poetry,  and  so 
say  I  to  you,  in  this  degenerate  land  of  pig- 
mies, 

Mix  with  your  grave  designs  a  little  pleasure, 
JEach  day  of  business  has  its  hour  of  leisure. 

In  one  of  these  hours  I  hope,  dear  sir, 
you  will  sometimes  think  of  me,  write  to 
me,  and  know  me  yours, 

that  is,  write  freely  tome  and  openly,  as  Ido 
to  you,  and  to  give  you  a  proof  of  it,  1  have 
sent  you  an  elegy  of  Tibullus  translated, 
Tibullus,  you  must  know,  is  my  favourite 
elegiac  poet;  for  his  language  is  more  ele- 
gant and  his  thoughts  more  natural  than 
Ovid's.     Ovid  excels  him   only  in    wit,  of 


16  gray's  letters. 

which  no  poet  had  more  in  my  opin- 
ion. The  reason  I  choose  so  melancholy  a 
kind  of  poesie,  is  because  my  low  spirits  and 
constant  ill  health  (things  in  me  not  imagina- 
ry, as  you  surmise,  but  too  real,  alas!  and,  I 
fear,  constitutional)  "have  tuned  my  heart  to 
elegies  of  woe;"  and  this  likewise  is  the 
reason  why  I  am  the  most  irregular  thing 
alive  at  college,  for  you  may  depend  upon  it 
I  value  my  health  above  what  they  call 
discipline.  As  for  this  poor  unlicked 
thing  of  an  elegy,  pray  criticise  it  unmer- 
cifully, for  I  send  it  with  that  intent.  In- 
deed your  late  translation  of  Statins  might 
have  deterred  me:  but  I  know  you  are  not 
more  able  to  excel  others,  than  you  are  apt 
to  forgive  the  want  of  excellence,  especially 
when  it  is  found  in  the  productions  of 

Your  most  sincere  friend. 

Christ  Church,  Dec.  22,  1736. 


VI. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

You  can  never  weary  me  with  the  repetition 
of  any  thing  that  makes  me  sensible  of 
your  kindness:  since  that  has  been  the  only 


gray's  letters.  17 

idea  of  any  social  happiness  that  I  have  al- 
most ever  received,  and  which  (begging  your 
pardon  for  thinking  so  differently  from  you 
in  such  cases)  I  would  by  no  means  have 
parted  with  for  an  exemption  from  all 
the  uneasinesses  mixed  with  it:  But  it  would 
be  unjust  to  imagine  my  taste  was  any  rule 
for  yours;  for  which  reason  my  letters  are 
shorter  and  less  frequent  than  they  would 
be,  had  1  any  materials  but  myself  to  enter- 
tain you  with.  Love  and  brown  sugar  must 
be  a  poor  regale  for  one  of  your  gout,  and, 
alas!  you  know  I  am  by  trade  a  grocer.* 
Scandal  (if  I  had  any)  is  a  merchandise  you 
do  not  profess  dealing  in;  now  and  then,  in- 
deed, and  to  oblige  a  friend,  you  may  per- 
haps slip  a  little  out  of  your  pocket,  as  a  de- 
cayed gentlewoman  would  a  piece  of  right 
mecklin,  or  a  little  quantity  of  run  tea,  but 
this  only  now  and  then,  not  to  make  a  prac- 
tice of  it.  Monsters  appertaining  to  this  cli- 
mate you  have  seen  already,  both  wet  and 
dry.  So  you  perceive  within  how  narrow 
bounds  my  pen  is  circumscribed,  and  the 
whole  contents  of  my  share  in  our  corres- 

*  i.e.  A  man   who  deals   only  in  coarse  and   ordinary  wares: 
to  these  he  compares  the  plain  sincerity  of  his  own  friendship, 
undisguised  by  flattery  ;  which,  had  he  chosen  to  carry  on  theal* 
lusion,  he  might  have  termed  the  trade  of  a  Confeetiona:. 
VOL.    IV.  2 


18  gray's  letters. 

pondence  may  be  reduced  under  the  two 
heads  of  1st,  You,  2dly,  1;  the  first  is,  in- 
deed a  subject  to  expatiate  upon,  but  you 
might  IrJUgh  at  me  for  talking  about  what  I 
do  not  understand;  tiie  second  is  so  tiny,  so 
tiresome,  that  you  shall  hear  no  more  of  it 
than  that  it  is  ever 

Yours. 

Beterhouse,  Dec.  23, 1736. 


VII. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

I  HAVE  been  very  ill,  and  am  still  hardly  re- 
covered. Do  you  remember  Elegy  5th, 
Book  the  3d,  of  Tibullus,  Vos  tenet,  &c.  and 
do  you  remember  a  letter  of  Mr.  Pope's,  in 
sickness,  to  Mr.  Steele?  This  melancholy 
elegy  and  this  melancholy  letter  I  turned  into 
a  more  melancholy  epistle  of  my  own,  dur- 
ing my  sickness,  in  the  way  of  imitation; 
and  thi<  I  send  to  you  and  my  friends  at 
Cambridge,  not  to  divert  Ihem,  for  it  cannot, 
but  merely  to  show  them  how  sincere  I  was 
when  sick:  I  hope  my  sending  it  to  them  now 
may  convince  them  I  am  no  less  sincere, 
though  perhaps  more  simple,  when  weil?|: 


gray's  letters.  19 


AD    AMICOS.'^ 

Yes,  Tiappy  youths,  on  Camus'  sedgy  side, 

You  feel  each  joy  that  friendship  can  divide  j 

Each  realm  of  science  and  of  art  explore, 

And  witli  the  ancient  blend  the  modem  lore. 

Studious  alone  to  Itam  whate'er  may  tend 

To  raise  the  genius  or  the  heart  to  mend ; 

Now  pleased  along  the  cloister'd  walk  you  rovC; 

And  tiace  the  verdant  mazes  of  the  grove. 

Where  social  oft,  and  oft  alone,  ye  choose 

To  catch  tie  zephjT  and  to  court  the  muse. 

Meantime  at  me  (while  all  devoid  of  art 

These  lines  give  back  the  image  of  my  heart) 

At  me  the  power  that  comes  or  soon  or  late, 

Or  aims,  or  seems  to  aim,  the  dart  of  fate  ; 

From  you  remote,  methinks,  alone  I  stand 

Like  some  sad  exile  in  a  desert  land  ; 

Around  no  friends  their  lenient  cai-e  to  join 

In  mutual  Avarmth.  and  mix  their  heart  with  min«k 

Or  rtal  pains,  or  those  which  fancy  raise. 

For  ever  blot  the  sunshine  of  my  days  ; 

To  sickness  still,  and  still  to  grief  a  prey, 

Htalth  turns  from  me  her  rosy  face  away. 

Just  Heaven  !    what  sin,  ere  life  begins  to  blconi, 
Devotes  my  head  ui.timely  to  the  tomb  ? 
Did  e'er  this  hand  against  a  brother's  life 
Drug  the  dire  bowl,  or  point  the  murderous  knife  ? 
Did  e'er  this  tongue  the  slanderer's  tale  proclaim, 

*  Almost  all  TibuUus's  elegy  is  imitated  in  this  little  piece, 
*om  whence  his  transition  to  Mx:  Pope's  letter  is  very  artfully 
«ontnved,  and  be»p«aks  adepree  of  jud£:<.jaeut  mueb  beyfflad  Mr 

W«pt;6  yeaK. 


20  gray's  letters. 

Or  madly  violate  my  Maker's  name  ? 

Did  e'er  this  heart  betray  a  friend  or  foe, 

Or  Imow  a  thought  but  all  the  world  might  know  ? 

As  yet,  just  staited  from  the  lists  of  time, 

My  gi'owing  years  have  scarcely  told  their  prime ; 

Useless,  as  yet,  through  life  I've  idly  run, 

No  pleasures  tasted,  and  few  duties  done. 

♦  Ah,  who,  ere  autumn's  mellowing  suns  appear, 
Would  pluck  the  promise  of  the  venial  year  ? 
Or,  ere  the  grapes  their  purple  hue  betray, 
Tear  the  crude  cluster  from  the  mourning  spray  ? 
Stern  Power  of  Fate,  whose  ebon  sceptre  rules 
The  Stygian  deserts  and  Cimmerian  pools, 
Forbear,  nor  rashly  smite  my  youthful  heart, 

A  victim  yet  unworthy  of  thy  dart : 
Ah,  stay  till  age  shall  blast  my  withering  face. 
Shake  in  my  head,  and  falter  in  my  pace  ; 
Then  aim  the  sliaft,  then  meditate  the  blow, 
i'  And  to  the  dead  my  willing  shade  shall  go. 
How  weak  is  Man  to  Reason's  judging  eye  ! 
Born  in  this  moment,  in  the  next  we  die  ; 
Part  mortal  clay .  and  part  ethereal  fire, 
Too  proud  to  creep,  too  humble  to  aspire. 
In  vain  our  plans  of  happiness  we  raise, 
Pain  is  our  lot,  and  patience  is  our  praise  ; 
Wealth,  lineager  honours,  conquest,  or  a  throne, 

*  Quid  fraudare  juvat  vitem  crescentibus  uvis  ? 
Et  modo  uata  mala  vellere  poma  manu  ? 

So  the  original.  The  paraphrase  seems  to  me  infinitely  more 
beautiful.  There  is  a  peculiar  blemish  in  the  second  line,  arising 
from  the  synonimes  mala  and  poma 

t  Here  he  quits  TibuUus :  the  ten  foUowiog  verses  hare  but  a 
remote  reference  to  Mjr.  Pope's  letter. 


gray's  letters.  21 

Are  what  the  wise  would  fear  to  call  their  own. 
Health  is  at  best  a  vain  precarious  thing, 
And  fair-faced  youth  is  ever  on  the  wing : 
*  'Tis  like  the  stream,  beside  whose  watery  bed 
Some  blooming  plant  exalts  his  flowery  bead, 
Nursed  by  the  wave  the  spreading  bi*anches  rise. 
Shade  all  the  ground  and  flourish  to  the  skies  ; 
The  waves  the  while  beneath  in  secret  flow, 
And  underline  the  "hollow  bank  below  ; 
"Wide  and  more  wide  the  waters  urge  their  way, 
Bare  all  the  roots  and  on  their  fibres  prey. 
Too  late  the  plant  bewails  his  foolish  pride, 
And  sinks,  untimely,  in  the  whelming  tide. 

But  why  repine  ?  does  life  desei've  my  sigh  ? 
Few  will  lament  ray  loss  whene'er  I  die. 
t  For  those  the  wretches  I  despise  or  hate, 
I  neither  envy  nor  regard  their  fate. 
For  me.  whene'er  all-conquering  Death  shall  spread 
His  wings  around  my  unrepining  head, 
X  1  care  not ;  though  this  face  be  seen  no  more, 

*  "  Youth,  at  the  very  best,  is  but  the  betrayer  of  human  life  jt, 
a  gentler  and  smoother  manner  than  age  :  'tis  iike  the  stream  that 
noui-ishes  a  plant  upon  a  bank,  and  causes  it  to  flourish  and  blos- 
som to  the  sight,  but  at  the  same  time  is  undermining  it  at  the  root 
in  secret."  Papers  IVorks,  vol  7  page  ^54,  Isf.  edit  Warburton. 
Mr.  "West,  by  prolonging  his  paraphrase  of  this  simile,  gives  it  ad- 
ditional beauty  from  that  very  circumstance,  but  he  ought  to  have 
introduced  it  by  Mr  Pope's  own  thought.  '"  Youth  is  a  betrayer  ;" 
his  couplet  preceding  the  simile  conveys  too  general  a  reflection. 

t  "  I  am  not  at  all  uneasy  at  the  tliought  that  many  men, 
whom  I  never  had  any  esteem  for,  are  likely  to  enjoy  this  world 
after  me."     Vide  ibid. 

%  "The  morning  after  my  exit  the  sun  will  rise  as  bright  as 
cTer,  t)ie  flowers  smell  as  sweet,  the  plants  spring  as  green  ;"  so 


22  gray's  letters. 

The  world  will  pass  as  dieerful  as  before  ; 
Bright  as  before  the  day-star  will  appeal*. 
The  fields  as  verdant,  and  the  skies  as  clear  ; 
Nor  storms  nor  comets  will  my  doom  declare. 
Nor  signs  on  earth,  nor  portents  in  the  air  ; 
Unknftwn  and  silent  will  depart  my  breath, 
Nor  Nature  e'er  take  notice  of  my  death. 
Yet  some  there  are  (ere  spent  my  vital  days) 
"Within  whose  breasts  my  tomb  I  wish  to  raise. 
Loved  in  my  life,  lamented  in  my  end, 
Their  praise  would  crown  me  ss  their  precepts  mend  : 
To  (hem  may  these  fond  lines  my  name  endear, 
Not  from  the  Poet  but  the  Friend  sincere. 
Christ  Church,  July  4, 1737. 


VIII. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

After  a  month's  expectation  of  jou,  anJ  a 
fortnight's  despair,  at  Canibridge,  I  am  come 

far  Mr.  "West  copies  his  original,  but  instead  of  the  following  part 
of  the  sentence,  "  People  will  laugh  as  heartily  and  marry  as  fast 
as  they  used  to  do,"  he  inserts  a  more  solemn  idea. 

Nor  storms  nor  comets,  &c." 

justly  perceiving  that  the  elegiac  turn  of  his  epistle  would  not 
admit  so  ludicrous  a  thought,  as  was  in  its  place  in  Mr  Pope's 
familiar  letter ;  so  that  we  see,  young  as  he  was,  he  had  obtained 
the  art  of  judiciously  selecting  ;  one  of  the  first  provinces  of  good 


gray's  letters.  23 

to  town,  and  to  better  hopes  of  seeing  you. 
If  what  you  sent  me  last  be  the  product  of 
your  melancholy,  what  may  I  not  expect 
from  your  more  cheerful  hours?  For  by  this 
time  the  ill-health  that  you  complain  of  is  (I 
hope)  quite  departed;  though,  if  I  were 
self-interested,  1  ought  to  wish  for  the  con- 
tinuance of  any  thing  that  could  be  the  oc- 
casion of  so  much  pleasure  to  me.  Low 
spirits  are  my  true  and  faithful  companions; 
they  get  up  with  me,  go  to  bed  with  me, 
make  journeys  and  returns  as  I  do;  nay,  and 
pay  visits,  and  will  even  affect  to  be  jocose, 
and  force  a  feeble  laugh  with  me:  but  most 
commonly  we  sit  alone  together,  and  are 
the  prettiest  insipid  company  in  the  world. 
However,  when  you  come,  1  believe  they 
must  undergo  the  fate  of  all  hua»ble  compa- 
nions, and  be  discarded.  Would  I  could 
turn  them  to  the  same  use  that  you  have 
done,  and  make  an  Apollo  of  them.  If 
they  could  write  such  verses  with  me,  not 
hartshorn,  nor  spirit  of  amber,  nor  all  that 
furnishes  the  closet  of  an  apothecary's  wi- 
dow, should  persuade  me  to  part  with  them: 
But,  while  1  write  to  you,  I  hear  the  bad 
news  of  Lady  Wal pole's  death  on  Saturday 
night  last.  Forgive  me  if  the  thought  of 
what  my  poor  l^Qrace  miist  feel  on  that  ac- 


24  gray's  letters. 

count,  obliges  me  to  have  done  in  reminding 
you  that  I  am 

Yours,  &c. 

London,  Aug.  22,  1737. 


IX. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

I  WAS  hindered  in  my  last,  and  so  could  not 
give  you  all  the  trouble  I  would  have  done. 
The  description  of  a  road,  which  your  coach 
wheels  have  so  often  honoured,  it  would  be 
needless  to  give  you:  suffice  it  that  I  arrived 
safe*  at  my  uncle's,  who  is  a  great  hunter  in 
imagination;  his  dogs  take  up  every  chair 
in  the  house,  so  I  am  forced  to  stand  at  this 
present  writing;  and  though  the  gout  forbids 
him  gallopping  after  them  in  the  field,  yet 
he  continues  still  to  regale  his  ears  and  nose 
with  their  comfortable  noise  and  stink.  He 
holds  me  mighty  cheap,  I  perceive,  for  walk- 
ing when  I  should  ride,  and  reading  when  I 
should  hunt.  My  comfort  amidst  all  this  is, 
that  I  have,  at  the  distance  of  half  a  mile, 
through  a  green  lane,  a  forest  (the  vulgar 
call  it  a  common)  all  m}'  own,  at  least  as  good 

*  At  Biu-nbaiQ  in  Buckinghamshire. 


gray's  letters.  25 

as  so,  for  I  spy  no  human  thing  in  it  but  my- 
self. It  is  a  little  chaos  of  mountains  and 
precipices;  mountains,  it  is  true,  that  do  not 
fiscend  much  above  the  clouds,  nor  are  the 
declivities  quite  so  amazing  as  Dover  cliff; 
but  just  such  hills  as  people  who  love  their 
necks  as  well  as  I  do  may  venture  to  climb, 
and  crags  that  give  the  eye  as  much  plea- 
sure as  if  they  were  more  dangerous:  Both 
vale  and  hill  are  covered  with  most  venera- 
ble beeches,  and  other  very  reverend  vege- 
tables, that,  like  most  other  ancient  people, 
are  always  dreaming  out  their  old  stories  to 
the  winds, 

And  as  they  bow  their  hoary  tops  relate, 
^         In  murmuring  sounds,  the  dark  decrees  of  fate  ; 
"While  visions,  as  poetic  eyes  avow, 
Cling  to  each  leaf  and  swarm  on  every  bough. 

At  the  foot  of  one  of  these  squats  me  I,  (11 
penseroso)  and  there  grow  to  the  trunk  for 
a  whole  morning.  The  timorous  hare  and 
sportive  squirrel  gambol  around  me  like 
Adam  in  Paradise,  before  he  had  an  Eve; 
but  I  think  he  did  not  use  to  read  Virgil,  as 
I  commonly  do  there.  In  this  situation  I 
often  converse  with  my  Horace,  aloud  too, 
that  is  talk  to  you,  but  I  do  not  remember 
that  I  ever  heard  you  answer  me.     I  beg 


26  gray's  letters. 

pardon  for  faking  all  the  conversation  to  my- 
self, but  it  is  entirely  your  own  fault.  We 
have  old  Mr.  Southern  at  a  gentleman's 
house  a  little  way  off,  who  often  comes  to 
see  us:  he  is  now  seventy-seven  years  old, 
and  has  almost  wholly  lost  his  memory;  but 
is  as  agreeable  as  an  old  man  can  be,  at  least 
I  persuide  myself  so  when  I  look  at  him, 
and  think  of  Isabella  and  Oroonoko.  I  shall 
be  in  town  in  about  three  weeks.     Adieu.   , 

September,  1737. 

X. 

TO  MR.   WALPOLE.* 

I  SYMPATHIZE  With  you  in  the  sufferings 
which  you  foresee  are  coming  upon  you. 
We  are  both  at  present,  I  imagine,  in  no 
very  agreeable  situation;  for  my  part  1  am 
under  the  misfortune  of  having  nothing  to  do, 
but  it  is  a  misfortune  which,  thank  my  stars, 
I  can  pretty  well  bear.  1  ou  are  in  a  confu- 
sion of  wine,  and  roaring,  and  hunting,  and 
tobacco,  and,  heaven  be  praised,  you  too  can 
pretty  well  bear  it;  while  our  evils  are  no 
more,  I  believe  we  shall  not  much  repine. 
I  imagine,  however,  you  will  rather  choose 

*At  this  time  with  his  father  at  Houghton* 


gray's  letters.  27 

to  converse  with  the  living  dead,  that  adorn 
the  walls  of  your  apartments,  than  with  the 
dead  living  that  deck  the  middles  of  them; 
and  prefer  a  picture  of  still  life  to  the  reali- 
ties of  a  noisy  one,  and,  as  I  guess,  will  imi- 
tate what  you  prefer,  and  for  an  hour  or  two 
at  noon  will  stick  yourself  up  as  formal  as  if 
you  had  been  fixed  in  your  frame  for  these 
hundred  years,  with  a  pink  or  rose  in  one 
hand,  and  a  great  seal  ring  on  the  other. 
Your  name,  1  assure  you,  has  been  propagat- 
ed in  these  countries  by  a  convert  of  yours, 
one  *  *  *  ;  he  has  brought  over  his  whole 
family  to  you:  they  were  before  pretty  good 
Whigs,  but  now  they  are  absolute  Walpoli- 
ans.  We  have  hardly  any  body  in  the  par- 
ish but  knows  exactly  the  dimensions  of  the 
hall  and  saloon  at  Houghton,  and  begin  to 
believe  that  the  ^lantern  is  not  so  great  a 
consumer  of  the  fat  of  the  land  as  disaffected 
persons  have  said:  For  your  reputation,  we 
keep  to  ourselves  your  not  hunting  nor 
drinking  hogan,  either  of  which  here  would 
be  sufficient  to  lay  your  honour  in  the  dust. 
To-morrow  se'nnight  I  hope  to  be  in  town, 
and  not  long  after  at  Cambridge. 

I  am,  &c. 

Barnbam,  Sept.  1737. 

*  A  favourite  object  of  Toifv  satire  at  the  time. 


28  gray's  letters. 

XI. 

FROM  MR.  WEST  TO  MR.  GRAY. 

Receiving  no  answer  to  my  last  letter,  which 
I  writ  above  a  month  ago,  I  must  own  I  am 
a  little  uneasy.  The  slight  shadow  of  you 
which!  had  in  town,*  has  only  served  to  en- 
dear you  to  me  the  more.  The  moments  I 
passed  with  you  made  a  strong  impression 
upon  me.  I  singled  you  out  for  a  friend, 
and  I  would  have  you  know  me  to  be  yours,' 
if  you  deem  me  worthy.  Alas,  Gray,  you 
cannot  imagine  how  miserably  my  time 
passes  away.  My  health  and  nerves  and 
spirits  are,  thank  my  stars,  the  very  worst, 
I  think,  in  Oxford.  Four-and-twenty  hours 
of  pure  unalloyed  health  together,  are  as  un- 
known to  me  as  the  400,000  characters  in 
the  Chinese  vocabulary.  One  of  my  com- 
plaints has  of  late  been  so  over-civil  as  to 
visit  me  regularly  once  a  month — -jam  certus 
conviva.  This  is  a  painful  nervous  head- 
ache, which  perhaps  you  have  sometimes 
heard  me  speak  of  before.  Give  me  leave 
to  say,  I  find  no  physic  comparable  to  your 
letters.  If,  as  it  is  said  in  Ecclesiasticus, 
''Friendship  be  the  physic  of  the  mind," 


gray's  letters.  29 

prescribe  to  me,  dear  Gray,  as  often  and  as 
much  as  you  think  proper,  I  shall  be  a  most 
obedient  patient. 

Nonego 
Fidis  irascar  medicis,  ofFendar  amicis. 

I  venture  here  to  write  you  down  a  Greek 
epigram,*  which  I  lately  turned  into  Latin, 
and  hope  you  will  excuse  it. 

Perspicui  paerum  ludentem  in  raargine  ri^i 

Immersit  vitreae  limpidus  error  aquae : 
Ai  gelido  ut  mater  moribundum  e  flumme  traxit 

Credula,  et  amplexu  fiinus  inane  fovet ; 
Paulatim  puer  in  dilecto  pectore,  somno 

Languidus,  aetemum  iumina  composuit. 

Adieu  !  I  am  going  to  my  tutor's  •  lectures 
on  one  Puffendorff,  a  very  jurisprudent  au- 
thor as  you  shall  read  on  a  summer's  day. 

Believe  me  yours,  &c, 

Christ  Church,  Dec.  2,  1738. 

*  Of  Posidippus.    Fide  Anthologia,  II.  Stephan.fi,  280. 


30  gray's  letters. 

XII. 

TO  MR.  WEST. 

LiTERAS  mi  Favoni  !*  abs  te  demum,iinclius- 
tertins  credo,  accepi  plane  mellitas,  nisi  forte 
qua  de  aegritudine  quadam  tua  dictum:  atque 
hoc  sane  mihi  habitum  est  non  paulo  acer- 
bius,  quod  te  capitis  morbo  implicitum  esse 
intellexi;  oh  morbum  mihi  quam  odiosum! 
qui  de  industria  id  agit,  ut  ego  in  singulos 
menses,  Dii  boni,  quantis  jucunditatibus  or- 
barer!  quam  ex  animo  mihi  dolendum  est, 
quod 

Medio  de  fonte  leporum 
Surgit  amari  aliqiiid .' 

Salutem,  mehercule,  nolo,  tarn  parvipendas, 
atque  amicis  tam  improbe  consulas:  quan- 
quam  tute  fortassis  aestuas  angusto  limite 
mundi,  viamque  (ut  dicitur)  affectas  Oljmpo, 
nos  tamen  non  esse  tam  sublimes,  utpote  qui 
hisce  in  sordibus  et  faece  diutius  paululum 
versari  voluraus,  reminiscendum  est:  iilae 
tuee    Musae,  si  te    ament   modo,   derelinqui 

f  *  Mr.  Gray,  in  all  bis  Latin  compositions,  addressed  to  this  gen- 
tleman, calls  bim  Favoiiiu*,  in  allusion  tu  the  name  of  Wt»t* 


gray's  letters.  31 

paulisper  non  nimis  aegre  patientur:  indulge, 
amabo  te,  plusquam  soles,  corporis  exercita- 
tionibus:  magis  te  campus  habeat,  aprico 
magis  te  dedas  otio,  ut  ne  id  ingenium  quod 
tam  cultum  curas,  diligenter  nimis  dum  foves, 
officiosarum  matrum  ritu,  interimas.  Vide 
quaeso,  quam  <«T^«;tjft»5  tecum  agimus. 

Si  de  his  pharmacis  non  satis  liquet,  sunt 
festivitates  meraB,  sunt  facetis  et  risus;  quos 
ego  equidem  si  adhibere  nequeo,  tamen  ad 
praBcipiendum  (ut  raedicorum  fere  mos  est) 
certe  satis  sim;  id,  quod  poetice  sub  finem 
epistolai  lusisti,  mihi  gratissimum  quidem  ac- 
cidit;  admodum  Latine  coctum  et  conditum 
tetrasticon,  Graecam  tamen  illam  ec^iXuxt  mi- 
rifice  sapit:  tu  quod  restat,  vide,  sodes,  hu- 
jusce  hominis  ignorantiam;  cum,  unde  hoc 
tibi  sit  depromptum,  (ut  fatear)  prorsus 
nescio:  sane  ego  equidem  niliil  in  capsis  re- 
perio  quo  tibi  minimae  partis  solutio  fiat. 
Vale,  et  me  ut  soles,  ama. 

A.  D.  11  Ealend.  Fefaruar. 


xrii.* 

FROM  MR.  WEST. 

I  OUGHT  to  answer  yon  in  Latin,  but  I  feel  I 
dare  not  enter  the  lists  with  you — cupidum, 
pater  optime,  vires  deficiunt.  Seriously, 
you  write  in  that  language  with  a  grace  and 
an  Augustan  urbanity,  that  amazes  me:  Your 
Greek  too  is  perfect  in  its  kind.  And  here 
let  me  wonder  that  a  man,  longe  Graecorum 
doctissimus,  should  be  at  a  loss  for  the  verse 
and  chapter  whence  my  epigram  is  taken. 
I  am  sorry  1  have  not  my  Aldus  with  me, 
that  I  might  satisfy  your  curiosity;  but  he, 
with  all  my  other  literary  folks,  are  left  at 
Oxford,  and  therefore  you  must  still  rest  in 
suspense.  I  thank  you  again  and  again  for 
your  medical  prescription.  I  know  very 
well  that  those  "risus,  festivitates,  et  face-* 
tiae"  would  contribute  greatly  to  my  cure, 
but  then  you  must  be  my  apothecary  as  well 
as  physician,  and  make  up  the  dose  as  well 
as  direct  it;  send  me,  therefore,  an  electuary 

*  This  was  written  in  French,  but  as  I  doubted  whether  it  would 
stand  the  test  of  polite  criticism,  so  well  as  the  preceding  would 
of  learned,  I  chose  to  translate  so  much  of  it  as  I  thought  neeessary 
in  order  to  preserve  the  chain  of  conrespoudence. 


gray's  letters.  33 

of  these  drugs,  made  up  "secundum  artem, 
et  eris  mihi  magnus  Apollo,"  in  both  his  ca- 
pacities, as  a  god  of  poets  and  a  god  of  phy- 
sicians. Wish  me.joy  of  leaving  my  college, 
and  leave  yours  as  fast  as  you  can.  1  shall 
be  settled  at  the  temple  very  soon. 

Dartmouth-Street,  Feb.  21,  1737-8. 


XIV. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

*  Barbaras  aedesaditure  mecum 
Quas  Eris  semper  fovet  inquleta, 
Lis  ubi  late  souat,  et  togatum 

iEstuat  agmen  ! 

Dulcius  qiianto,  patulis  sub  uTmi 
Hospitae  raniis  ten;Pre  jacentem 
Sic  libris  lioras,  tenuitjue  inertes 

Fallere  Musa  ? 

Ssepe  enim  curis  vagor  expedita 

Mente  ;  dun',  hlandara  meditans  Camoenam, 

Vix  malo  rori,  meminive  seiae 

Cedere  nocti ; 

*  I  choose  to  call  this  delicate  Sapphic  Ode  the  first  original  pi»- 
ductioi)  of  Mr.  Gr.y's  muse  ;  for  verses  imposed  rfthc  r  by  school 
mastereor  tutors,  ought  xiot,  I  think,  to  be  tal*;eii  irto  tht-  conside- 
ration. There  is  seldom  a  versv  t"  at  flows  well  from  the  pen  of  a 
real  poet  if  it  does  uot  flow  yoluntarily. 

roL.  IV.  3 


:34  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

Et,  pedes  quo  me  rapiunt,  in  omni 
Colle  Parnassiiin  videor  videre 
FertJlem  silvae,  gelidamque  in  orani 

Fonte  Aganippen. 

Risit  et  Ver  me,  facilesque  Nymphs 
Pfare  captantem,  nee  ineleganti, 
Mane  quicquid  de  violis  eundo 

Surripit  aura  : 

Me  reclinatuni  teneram  per  herbam  j 
Qua  leves  cursus  aqua  cunque  ducit, 
Et  moras  dulci  strepitu  lapillo 

Nectit  in  omni. 

Hse  novo  nostrum  fere  pectus  anno 
Simplices  curae  tenuere,  coelum 
Quaradiu  sudum  explicuit  Favoni 

Purior  hora : 

Otia  et  campos  nee  adhuc  relinquo, 
Nee  raagls  Phcebo  Clytie  fidelis  ; 
(Ingruant  venti  licet,  et  senescat 

Mollior  sestas.) 

Namque,  seu,  laetos  hominum  labores 
Prataque  et  monies  recreante  curru, 
Purpura  tractus  oriens  Eoos 

Vestit,  et  auro ; 

Sedulus  servo  veneratus  orbem 
Prodigum  splendoris :  amoeniori 
Sive  dilectam  meditatur  igne 

Pingere  Caljlen  j 

Usque  dura,  fulgore  magis  magis  jam 
Languido  circum,  variala  nube?  / 

Labitur  furtim,  viridisque  in  umbras 

Seena  reoessit. 


rray's  letters.  35 

O  ego  felix,  vice  si  (uec  unquam 
Surgerem  nirsus)  !*iinili  cadentem 
Parca  me  lenis  sineret  quieto 

Fallere  Letho ! 

Multa  flagranti  radiisque  cincto 
Iritegris  ah  !  quam  nihil  inviderem, 
Cum  Dei  ardentes  xuedius  quadrigas 

Soutit  Olympus  ? 

Ohe  !  amicule  noster,  et  unde,  sodes  tu 
fiov9-o7FXTXKTog  ad 60  repcntc  evasisti  ?  jam 
te  rogitatururn  credo.  Nescio,  nercle,  sic 
plane  habet.  Quicquid  enim  nugarum  ««■< 
v^6Xns  inter  ambulandum  in  palimpsesto 
sciiptitavi,  hisce  te  maxime  impertiri  visum 
est,  quippe  quern  probare,  quod  meum  est, 
aut  certe  ignoscere  solitum  probe  novi  : 
bona  tua  venia  sit  si  forte  videar  in  fine 
subtristior  ;  nam  risui  jamdudum  salutem 
dixi :  etiam  paulo  mcestitiae  studiosiorem  fac- 
tum sci'.^s,   promptumque,  Katmn  5raA«<«  ^ct- 

X^Viii  ffTiVilV  KXKX^ 

O  lachrymarum  fons,  tenero  sacros  \ 

Ducentium  ortus  ex  animo  ;  quater 

Felix  I    ill  iino  qui  scateutera 

Pectore  te,  pia  Nympha,  seusit. 

Sed  de  me  satis.     Cura  ut  valeas, 
Jan.  1738. 


3t)  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

XV. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

I  RETURN  you  a  thousand  thanks  for  your 
elegant  ode,  and  wish  you  every  joy  you 
wish  yourself  in  it. — But,  take  my  word  for 
it,  you  will  never  spend  so  agreeable  a  day 
here  as  you  describe  :  alas  !  the  sun  with  us 
only  rises  to  show  us  the  way  to  Westmin- 
ster-Hall.— Nor  must  I  forget  thanking  you 
for  your  little  Alcaic  fragment.  The  optic 
Naiads  are  infinitely  obliged  to  you. 

I  was  last  week  at  Richmond  Lodge, 
with  Mr.  Walpole,  for  two  days,  and  dined 
with  ^Cardinal  Fleury  ;  as  far  as  my  short 
sight  can  go,  the  character  of  his  great  art 
and  penetration  is  very  just,  he  is  indeed 

Nulli  peneti-abilis  astro. 

I  go  to-morrow  to  Epsom,  where  I  shall  be 
for  about  a  month.  Excuse  me,  1  am  in 
haste, t  but  believe  me  always,  &c. 

August  29,  1738. 

•  Sir  Robert  Walpole. 

t  Mr.  West  seems  to  have  beeh,  indeed,  in  haste  when  he  writ 
tliis  letter ;  else,  surely,  his  fine  taste  w«uld  have  led  him  to  have 


gray's  letters.  37 

XVI. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

My  dear  sir,  I  should  say*  Mr.  Inspector 
General  of  the  Exports  and  Imports  ;  but 
that  appellation  would  make  but  an  odd 
figure  in  conjunction  with  the  three  familiar 
monosyllables  above  written,  for 

Non  bene  couveiiiunt  nee  In  una  setle  moiantur 
Majestas  et  ainor. 

Which  is,  being  interpreted.  Love  does  not 
live  at  the  Custom-house  ;  however,  by 
what  style,  title,  or  denomination  soever 
you  choose  to  be  dignified  or  distinguished 
hereafter,  these  three  words  will  stick  by 
you  like  a  bur,  and  you  can  no  more  get 
quit  of  these  and  your  christian  name  than 
St.  Anthony  could  of  his  pig.  My  motions 
at  present   (which  you   are  pleased  to  ask 

been  more  profuse  in  bis  praise  of  the  Alcaic  fi-agment.  He  might 
(I  think)  have  said,  without  paying  too  extravagant  a  compliment 
to  Mr.  Gray's  genius,  that  no  poet  of  the  Augustan  age  ever  pro- 
duced four  moi'e  perfect  lines,  or  what  would  sooner  impose  upon 
the  best  critic,  as  being  a  genuine  ancient  composition.  ^ 

*  Mr.  Walpole  was  just  named  to  that  post,  which  he  exchanged 
fMn  after  for  that  of  Usher  of  the  Exchequer. 


38  gray's  letters. 

fifter)  are  much  like  those  of  a  pendulum  or . 
(*Dr.  Longically  speaking)    oscillatory.     I 
swing  from  chapel  or  hall   home,   or  from 
home  to  chapel  or  hall.     All  the  strange  in- 
cidents that  happen  in  my  journeys  and  re- 
turns I  shall  be   sure  to  acquaint  you  with  ; 
the  most  wonderful  is,  that  it  now  rains  ex- 
ceedingly, this  has  refreshed  thej  prospect, 
as  the  way  for  the  most   part  lies    between 
green  fields  on  either  hand,  terminated  with 
buildings    at  some  distance,  castles,  I  pre- 
sume, and  of  great  antiquity.     The  roads  are 
very  good,  being,  as  I  suspect,  the  works  of 
Julius  Caesar's  army,  for  they  still  preserve, 
in  many  places,  the  appearance  of  a  pave- 
ment in  pretty  good  repair,  and,  if  they  were 
not   so    near   home,   might   perhaps    be    as 
much  admired  as  the  Via  Appia  ;  there  .are 
at   present  several    rivulets  to  he    crossed, 
and   which    serve    to   enliven   the  view  all 
around.     The  country  is  exceeding  fruitful 
in  ravens   and  such  black  cattle  ;  but,  not  to 
tire  you  with   my  travels,  I   abruptly  con- 
clude. 

Yours,  &c. 

August,  1738. 

*  Dr.  Long,  the  master  of  Pembroke-Hall,  at  this  time  read  lec- 
tures in  exj)eriraeutal  philosoj)hy. 

t  All  that  follows  is  a  humorously  byperbolie  description  ef  t\e 
quadrangle  of  Peter-House. 


GRAY*SXETTERS.  39 

XVII. 

TO  MR.  WEST. 

I  AM  coming  away  all  so  fast,  and  leaving 
behind  me,  without  the  least  remorse,  all 
the  beauties  of  Sturbridge  Fair.  Its  white 
bears  may  roar,  its  apes  may  wring  their 
hands,  and  crocodiles  cry  their  eyes  out,  aU's 
one  for  that;  I  shall  not  once  visit  them,  nor 
so  much  as  take  my  leave.  The  university 
has  published  a  severe  edict  against  schis- 
matical  congregations,  and  created  half  a 
dozen  new  little  procterlings  to  see  its  orders 
executed,  being  under  mighty  apprehensions 
lest  ^Henley  and  his  gilt  tub  should  come  to 
the  fair  and  seduce  their  young  ones  :  but 
their  pains  are  to  small  purpose,  for  lo,  after 
all,  he  is  not  coming. 

1  am  at  this  instant  in  the  very  agonies  of 
leaving  college,  and  would  not  wish  the 
worst  of  my  enemies  a  worse  situation.  If 
you  knew  the  dust,  the  old  boxes,  the  bed- 
steads, and  tutors  that  are  about  my  ears,  you 
would  look  upon  this  letter  as  a  great  effort 
of  my  resolution  and  unconcernedness  in  th* 

•  Orator  Henley. 


40  gray's  lctters. 

midst  of  evils.  I  fill  up  my  paper  with  a 
loose  sort  of  version  of  that  scene  in  Pastor 
Fido  that  begins,  Care  selve  beati.* 

Sept,  1738. 

XVIII. 

FROM  MR.  WEST. 

1  THANK  you  again  and  again  for  your  two 
last  most  agreeable  letters.  They  could  not 
have  come  more  a-propos;  I  was  without 
any  books  to  divert  me,  and  they  supplied 
the  want  of  every  thing:  I  made  them  my 
classics  in  the  country;  they  were  my  Ho- 
race and  Tibulius — Non  ita  loquor  assentandi 
causa,  ut  probe  nosti  si  me  noris,  verum 
quia  sic  mea  est  sententia.  I  am  but  just 
come  to  town,  and,  to  show  you  my  esteem 
of  your  favours,  I  venture  to  send  you  by 
the  penny-post,  to  your  fatiier's,  what  you 
will  find  on  the  next  page:  I  hope  it  will 
reach  you  soon  after  your  arrival,  your 
boxes  out  of  the  Avaggon,  yourself  out  of  the 
coach,  and  tutors  out  of  your  memor3^ 

Adieu,  we  shall  see  one  another,  I  hope, 
to-morrow.. 

*  This  Latin  version  is  extremely  elegiac,  [but  as  it  is  only  a 
rersion  I  do  not  insert  it.  j 


gray's  letters.  41 


ELEGIA. 

Quod  mib;  tam  gfratse  misisti  dona  Camoenae, 

Qualia  Mse'ialsus  Pan  Deus  ipse  velit, 
Ainplf^ctor  t^    Graie,  et  toto  corde  reposco. 

Oh  desiderium  jam  niniis  usque  meum  ! 
Et  niihi  riiva  placent,  et  me  qiioque  ssepe  volentem 

Diixerunt  Dryades  per  sua  prata  Dese  ; 
Sicubi  lympha  fugit  liquido  pede,  sive  virentem, 

^lagna  deciis  Hemoris.  quercus  opaeat  huraum  : 
lUuc  mane  novo  vagor,  iliuc  vespere  sero, 

Et.  noto  ut  jacui  gramiue,  nota  cano. 
Nee  nosti-a  ignorant  divinam  Amarj  llida  silva  : 

Ah,  si  desit  Amor,  nil  mihi  rura  placent. 
Hie  jvig'S  habitat  Deus,  ille  in  vallibus  imis, 

Reguat  et  in  Ccelis,  regnat  et  OceaHO  ; 
Ille  gregem  taurosque  dofnat ;  ssevique  leonem 

Semini*  ;  ille  fevos,  ultus  Adonin,  apros : 
Quin  et  fei-vet  amore  nemus,  rainoque  sub  omni 

Coneentu  tremulo  pluiuna  gaudet  ans. 
Dur«  etiam  in  silvis  agitant  connubia  plantse, 

Dura  etiam  et  fertur  saxa  aniinasse  Venus. 
Dui-ior  et  saxis.  et  robove  durior  ille  est, 

Siiiecro  siquis  pectore  araare  vetat : 
Non  illi  in  manibus  sanctum  deponei-e  pignus, 

Non  illi  arcanum  cor  aperire  velim ; 
Nescit  amicltias,  teneros  qui  nescit  amores  : 

Ah  !  si  nulla  Venus,  nil  mihi  rura  placent. 
Me  licet  a  p«tria  long^  ir.  teilure  jul^erent 

Externa  positunj  rluctre  Fata  dies ; 
Si  vultus  modo  araatus  adessct,  non  ego  contra 

Plorarem  magnos  voce  quersnte  De»s. 


42  gray's  letters. 


At  dulci  in  gnereio  curarum  oblivia 
Nil  ci  ptreoi  praiter  posse  placere  mose  ; 

Nee  i)ona  fortuiise  aspiciens,  ueque  juuiiera 
Ilia  ir.tra  optarem  bi-achia  cara  mori. 
Sep.  17,  1738. 


Mr.  Gray  continued  at  his  father's  house  in  Comhill  till  itie 
March  following;,  n  which  iiterval  Mr.  Walpole,  Keing  disiiiclin- 
ad  lo  r:ter  so  early  into  parlia.iient,  prevailed  on  sir  Robert  Wal- 
pole to  ptrmit  him  to  f;o  abroad,  and  on  Mr.  Gray  to  be  the  c«ra- 
paiiiun  of  his  travels.  The  correspondence  is  defective  towaixJs 
the  end  of  his  travels,  and  includes  i.o  drscriptiou  either  of  Venice 
or  its  te.Titory  ;  the  last  places  which  Mr.  Gray  visited :  a  defect 
whicl  was  occasioned  by  an  unfortui.nte  disaj^reement  between  him 
and  Mr  Walpole,  and  ejided  in  iheir  stpuvation  at  Regpno.  Mr. 
Gray  wtnt  befoi-e  him  to  Venice  ;  and  staying  there  oiily  til)  he 
Qould  fit  d  means  of  returning  tu  England,  he  made  the  best  of  his 
way  home,  repassing  the  Alps,  and  following  almost  the  sawie 
route  through  France  by  which  he  had  before  gone  to  Italy. 


XIX. 


TO  HIS  MOTHER. 

Amiens,  April  1,  N.  S.  1739. 

As  we  made  but  a  very  short  journey  to- 
day, and  came  to  our  inn  early,  I  sit  down 
to  give  you  some  account  of  our  expedition. 
On  the  '29th  (according  to  the  style  here) 
we  left  Dover  at  twelve  at  noon,  and  with  a 


gray's  letters.  43 

pretty  brisk  gale,  which  pleased  every  body 
mij^hty  well,  except  myself,  who  was  ex- 
tremely sick  the  whole  time;  we  reached 
Calais  by  five:  the  weather  changed,  and  it 
began  to  snow  hard  the  minute  we  got  into 
the  harbour,  where  we  took  the  boat,  and 
soon  landed.  Calais  is  an  exceeding  old,  but 
very  pretty  town,  and  we  hardly  saw  any 
thing  there  that  was  not  so  new  and  so  dif- 
ferent from  England,  that  it  surprised  us 
agreeably.  We  went  the  next  morning  to 
tba  great  church,  and  were  at  high  mass  (it 
being  Easter  Monday).  We  saw  also  the 
Convent  of  the  Capuchins,  and  the  nuns  of 
St.  Dominic;  with  these  last  we  held  much 
conversation,  especially  with  an  English  nun, 
a  Mrs,  Davis,  of  whose  work  I  sent  you,  by 
the  return  of  the  p-icquet,  a  letter-case  to 
remember  her  by.  In  the  afternoon  we  took 
a  post  chaise  (it  still  snowing  very  hard)  for 
Boulogne,  which  was  only  eighteen  miles 
further.  This  chaise  is  a  strange  sort  of 
conveyance,  of  much  greater  use  than  beau- 
ty, resembling  an  ill-shaped  chariot,  only 
with  the  door  opening  before  instead  of  the 
side;  three  horses  draw  it,  one  between  the 
shafts,  and  the  other  two  on  each  side,  on 
one  of  which  the  postillion  rides,  and  drivel 


44  gray's  letters. 

too.*  This  ^vehicle  will,  upon  occasion,  go 
fourscore  miles  a  daj,  but  Mr.  Walpole,  be- 
ing in  no  hurry,  chooses  to  make  easy  jour- 
neys of  it,  and  they  are  easy  ones  indeed; 
for  the  motion  is  much  like  that  of  a  sedan; 
we  go  about  six  miles  an  hour,  and  com- 
monly change  horses  at  the  end  of  it.  It  is 
true  they  are  no  very  graceful  steeds,  but 
they  go  well,  and  through  roads  which  they 
say  are  bad  for  France,  but  to  me  they  seem 
gravel  walks  and  bowling-greens;  in  short, 
it  vvould  be  the  finest  travelling  in  the  world, 
were  it  not  for  the  inns,  which  are  mostly 
terrible  places  indeed.  But  to  describe  our 
progress  somewhiit  more  regularly,  we  came 
into  Boulogne  when  it  was  almost  dark,  and 
went  out  pretty  early  on  Tuesday  morning; 
so  that  all  1  can  say  about  it  is,  that  it  is  a 
large,  old,  fortified  tovvn,  with  more  English 
in  it  than  French.  On  Tuesday  we  were  to 
go  to  Abbeville,  seventeen  leagues,  or  fifty- 
one  short  English  miles;  but  by  the  way  we 
dined  at  Montreuil,  much  to  our  hearts'  con- 
tent, on  stinking  mutton  cutlets,  addled  eggs, 
and  ditch  water.  Madame  the  hostess  made 
her  appearance  in  long  lappets  of  bone  lace, 
and  a  sack  of  linsey-woolsey.     We  supped 

•  This  was  before  the  introduction  of  post-chaises  hevCj  or  it 
waold  ttot  hare  appeared  a  sircumstsuie*  worthy  notice. 


grayV^  letters.  •  45 

and  lodged  pretty  well  at  Abbeville,  and  had 
time  to  see  a  little  of  it  before  we  caoie  out 
this   morning.      There  are   seventeen   con- 
vents in  it,  out  of  which  we  i?avv  the  chapels 
of  the  Minims  and  the  Carmelite  nuns.     We 
are  now  come  further  thirt}^^  miles  to  Amiens, 
the  chief  city  of  the  province  of  Picardy. 
We  have  seen  the  cathedral,  which  is  just 
what  that  of  Canierbury  must  have  been  be- 
fore the  reformation.     It  is  about  the  same 
size,  a  huge  Gothic   building,  beset  on  the 
outside  with  thousands  of  small  statues,  and 
within  adorned  with  beautiful  painted  win- 
dows, and  a  vast  number  of  chapels,  dressed 
out  in  all  their  linery  of  altar-pieces,  em- 
broidery,  gilding,    and  marble.      Over  the 
high   altar  are  *f)reserved,   in  a  very  large 
wrought  shrine  of  massy  gold,  the  relics  of 
St.   Firmin,   their  patron  saint.     We   went 
also  to  the  chapels  of  the  Jesuit,  and  Ursu- 
line  nuns,  the  latter  of  which  is  very  richly 
adorned.     To-morrow  we  shall  lie  at  Cler- 
mont, and  next  day  reach  Paris.    The  coun- 
try  we   have    passed  through   hitherto   has 
been    flat,  open,   but  agreeably    diversifjed 
with  villages,  fields  well-cultivated,  and  little 
rivers.     On  every  hillock  is  a  windmill,  a 
crucitix,  or  a  Virgin  Mary  dressed  m  flowers, 
and  a  sarcenet  robe;  one  sees  not  many  peo- 


46  gray's  letters. 

pie  or  carriages  on  the  road;  now  and  then 
indeed  you  meet  a  strolling  friar,  a  country- 
man with  his  great  muif,  or  a  woman  riding 
astride  on  a  little  ass,  with  short  petticoats, 
and  a  great  head-dress  of  blue  wool.  *  *  * 


XX. 

TO  M  R.  WEST. 

Paris,  April  12,  1739. 

Enfin  done  me  voici  a  Paris.  Mr.  Walpole 
is  gone  out  to  supper  at  lord  Conway's,  and 
here  1  remain  alone,  though  invited  too. 
Do  not  think  I  make  a  merit  of  writing  to 
you  preferably  to  a  good  supper;  for  these 
three  days  we  have  been  here,  have  ac- 
tuidly  given  me  an  aversion  to  eating  in  gen- 
eral. If  hunger  be  the  best  sauce  to  meat, 
the  French  are  certainly  the  worst  cooks  in 
the  world;  for  what  tables  we  have  seen 
have  been  so  delicately  served,  and  so  pro- 
fusely, that,"  after  rising  from  one  of  them, 
one  imagines  it  impossible  ever  to  eat  again. 
And  now,  if  I  tell  you  all  I  have  in  my  head, 
you  will  believe  me  mad;  mais  n'importe, 
courage,  allons!  for  if  I  wait  till  my  head 
grow  clear  and  settle  a  little,  you  may  stay 


GRAY  S  LETTERS.  47 

long  enough  for  a  letter.  Six  days  have  we 
been  coming  hither,  which  other  people  do 
in  two:  they  have  not  been  disagreeable 
ones;  through  a  fine,  open  country,  admira- 
ble roads,  and  i^i  an  easy  conveyance;  the 
inns  not  absolutely  intolerable,  and  images 
quite  unusual  presenting  themselves  on  all 
hands.  At  Amiens  we  saw  the  fine  cathedral, 
and  eat  pate  de  perdix;  passed  through  the 
park  of  Chantilly  by  the  duke  of  Bourbon's 
palace,  which  we  only  beheld  as  we  passed; 
broke  down  at  Lausarche;  slopped  at  St. 
Denis,  saw  all  the  beautiful  monuments  of 
the  kings  of  France,  and  the  vast  treasures 
of  the  abbey,  rubies,  and  emeralds  as  big  as 
small  eggs,  crucifixes  and  vows,  crowns  and 
reliquaires,  of  inestimable  value;  but  of  all 
their  curiosities  the  thing  the  most  to  our 
tastes,  and  which  they  indeed  do  the  justice 
to  esteem  the  glory  of  their  collection,  was 
a  vase  of  an  entire  onyx,  measuring  at  least 
five  inches  over,  three  deep,  and  of  great 
thickness.  It  is  at  least  two  thousand  years 
old,  the  beauty  of  the  stone  and  the  sculpture 
upon  it  (representing  the  mysteries  of  Bac- 
chus) beyond  expression  admirable;  we  have 
dreamed  of  it  ever  since.  The  jolly  old  Bene- 
dictine, that  showed  us  the  treasures  had  in 
his  youth  been  ten  years  a  soldier;  he  laugh- 


48 

ed  at  all  the  relics,  was  very  full  of  stories, 
and  mighty  obliging;  On  Saturday  evening 
we  got  to  Paris,  atid  were  driving  through 
the  streets  a  long  while  before  we  knew 
where  vve  were.  The  minute  we  came, 
voila  Ptfilors  Holdernepse,  Conway,  and  his 
brother;  all  stayed  supper,  and  till  two 
o'clock  in  the  morning,  for  here  nobody  ever 
sleeps;  it  is  not  the  way*  Next  day  go  to 
dine  at  my  lord  Holdernesse's,  there  was 
the  Abbe  Prevot,  author  of  the  Cleveland, 
and  sev'eral  other  pieces  much  esteemed: 
the  rest  were  Englisli.  At  night  we  went  to 
the  Fandore;  a  spectacle  literally,  for  it  is 
nothing  bat  a  beautiful  piece  of  machinery 
of  three  scenes.  The  first  represents  the 
chaos,  and  by  degrees  the  separation  of  the 
elements:  the  second,  the  temple  of  Jupiter, 
and  the  giving  of  the  box  to  Pandora:  the 
third,  the  opening  of  the  box,  and  all  the 
mischiefs  that  ensued.  An  absurd  design, 
but  executed  in  the  highest  perfection,  and 
that  in  one  of  the  finest  theatres  in  the 
world;  it  is  the  grande  salle  des  machines  in 
tlie  paiais  des  Tuilleries.  Next  day  dined 
at  Icrd  Waldegrave's:  then  to  the  opera. 
Imagine  to  yourself  for  the  drama  four  acts* 

*  The  French  opera  has  only  three  acts,  but  often  a  prologue  on 
a  different  subject,  which  (as  Mr.  Wilpole  informs  me,  who  saw  it 
at  the  same  time)  was  the  case  in  this  very  representation. 


gray's  letters.  49 

entirely  unconnected  with  each  other,  each 
founded  on  some  little  history,  skilf'tlly 
taken  out  of  an  ancient  author,  e  g.  Ovid's 
Metamorphoses,  &c.  and  with  great  address 
converted  into  a  French  piece  of  gallantry. 
For  instance,  that  which  1  sa\v,  called  the 
Ballet  de  la  Paix,  had  its  first  act  built  upon 
the  story  of  Nireus.  Homer  having  said 
that  he  was  the  handsomest  man  of  his  time, 
the  poet,  imagining  such  a  one  could  not 
want  a  mistress,  has  given  him  one.  These 
two  come  in  and  singsentiment  in  lamentable 
strains,  neither  air  nor  recitative;  only,  to 
one's  great  joy,  they  are  every  now  and 
then  interrupted  by  a  dance,  or  (to  one's 
great  sorrow)  by  a  chorus  that  borders  the 
stage  from  one  end  to  the  other,  and  screams, 
past  all  power  of  simile  to  represent.  The 
second  act  was  Baucis  and  Philemon.  Baucis 
is  a  beautiful  young  shepherdess,  and  Phile- 
mon her  swain.  Jupiter  falls  in  love  with 
her,  but  nothing  will  prevail  upon  her;  so  it 
is  all  mighty  well,  and  the  chorus  sing  and 
dance  the  praises  of  Constancy.  The  two 
other  acts  were  about  Iphis  and  lanthe,  and 
the  judgment  of  Paris.  Imagine,  I  say,  all 
this  transacted  by  cracked  voices,,  trilling  di- 
visions upon  two' notes  and  a  half,  accompa- 
nied by  an  orchestra  of  humstrums,   and  a 

VOL.    IV.  4 


50  ORAV  S    LETTERS. 

whole  house  more  attentive  than  if  Farinelli 
sung,  and  you  will  almost  have  formed  a  just 
notion  of  the  thing.  Our  astonishment  at 
tl.eir  absurdit}'  you  can  never  conceive;  we 
had  enough  to  do  to  express  it  by  screaming 
an  hour  louder  than  the  whole  dramatis  per- 
sonee.  We  have  also  seen  twice  the  Come- 
die  Fran^oise;  first,  the  Mahomet  Second,  a 
tragedy  that  has  had  a  great  run  of  late;  and 
the  thing  itself  does  not  want  its  beauties,  but 
the  actors  are  beyond  measure  delightful. 
Mademoiselle  Gaussin  (M.  Voltaire's  Zara) 
has  with  a  charming  (though  little)  person 
the  most  pathetic  tone  of  voice,  the  finest 
expression  in  her  face,  and  most  proper  ac- 
tion imaginable.  There  is  also  a  Dufrene, 
who  did  the  chief  character,  a  handsome  man 
and  a  prodigious  fine  actor.  The  second 
we  saw  was  the  Philosophe  marie,  and  here 
they  performed  as  well  in  comedy;  there  is 
a  Mademoiselle  Quinault,  somewhat  in  Mrs. 
Clive's  way,  and  a  Monsieur  Grandval,  in 
the  nature  of  Wilks,  who  is  the  genteelest 
thing  in  the  world.  There  are  several  more 
would  be  much  admired  in  England,  and 
many  (whom  we  have  not  seen)  much  cele- 
brated here.  Great  part  of  our  time  is 
speut  in  seeing  churches  aild  palaces  full  of 
fine  pictures,  &c.  the   quarter  of  which  is 


gray's  letters.  61 

not  yet  exhausted.  For  my  part,  I  could 
entertain  myself  this  month  merely  with 
the  common  streets  and  the  people  in 
them.  *  *  *• 


XXI. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

Paris,  May  22,  1739. 

After  the  little  particulars  aforesaid  i  sliould 
have  proceeded  to  a  journal  of  our  transac- 
tions for  this  week  past,  should  have  carried 
you  post  from  hence  to  Versailles,  hurried 
you  through  the  gardens  to  Trianon,  back 
again  to  Paris,  so  away  to  Chantilly.  But 
the  fatigue  is  perhaps  more  than  you  can 
bear,  and  moreover  I  think  1  have  reason  to 
stomach  your  last  piece  of  gravity.  Sup- 
posing you  were  in  your  soberest  mood  I 
am  sorry  you  should  think  me  capable  of 
ever  being  so  dissipe,  so  evapore,  as  not  to 
be  in  a  condition  of  relishing  any  thing  you 
could  say  to  me'.  And  now,  if  you  have  a 
mind  to  make  your  peace  with  me,  arouse  ye 
from  your  megrims  and  your  melancholies, 
and  (for  exercise  is  good  for  you)  throw 
away  your  night-cap,   call   for  your  jack- 


62  gray's  letters. 

boots,  and  set  out  with    me,  last   Saturday 

evening,    for  Versailles and   so   at   eight 

o'clock,  passing  through  a  road  speckled 
with  vines,  and  villas,  and  hares,  and  par- 
tridges, we  arrive  at  the  great  avenue, 
flanked  on  either  hand  with  a  double  row  of 
trees  about  half  a  mile  long,  and  with  the 
palace  itsfflf  to  terminate  the  view;  facing 
which,  on  each  side  of  you,  is  placed  a  semi- 
circle of  very  handsome  buildings,  which 
form  the  stables.  These  we  will  not  enter 
into,  because  you  know  we  are  no  jockies. 
Well!  and  is  this  the  great  front  of  Ver- 
sailles? What  a  huge  heap  of  littlenessl  it 
is  composed,  as  it  were,  of  three  courts,  all 
open  to  the  eye  at  once,  and  gradually  di- 
minishing till  you  come  to  the  ro)'al  apart- 
ments, which  on  this  side  present  but  half  a 
dozen  windows  and  a  balcony.  This  last  is 
all  that  can  be  called  a  front,  for  the  rest  is 
only  great  wings.  The  hue  of  all  this  mass 
is  black,  dirty  red,  and  yellow;  the  first  pro- 
ceeding from  stone  changed  by  age;  the 
second,  from-  a  mixture  of  brick;  and  the 
last,  from  a  profusion  of  tarnished  gilding. 
You  cannot  see  a  more  disagreeable  tout- 
ensemble;  and,  to  finish  the  matter,  it  is  all 
stuck  over  in  many  places  with  small  busts 
of  a  tawny  hue  between  every  two  windows. 


gray's  letters.  53 

We  pass  through  this  to  go  into  the  garden, 
and  here  the  case  is  indeed  altered;  nothing 
can  be  vaster  and  more  magnificent  than  the 
back  front;  before  it  a  very  spacious  terrace 
spreads  itself,  adorned  with  two  large  basins; 
these  are  bordered  and  lined  (as  most  of  the 
others)  with  white  marble,  with  band- 
some  statues  of  bronze  reclined  on  their 
edges.  From  hence  you 'descend  a  huge 
flight  of  steps  into  a  semi-circle  formed  by 
woods,  that  are  cut  all  round  into  niches, 
whjch  are  filled  with  beautiful  copies  of  all 
the  famous  antique  statues  in  white  marble. 
Just  in  the  midst  is  t)ie  basin  of  Latona; 
she  and  her  children  are  standing  on  the  top 
of  a  rock  in  the  middle,  on  the  sides  of 
which  are  the  peasants,  some  half,  some 
totally  changed  into  frogs,  all  which  throw 
out  water  at  her  in  great  plenty.  From  thi«; 
place  runs  on  the  great  alley,  which  brings 
YOU  into  a  complete  round,  where  is  the 
basin  of  Apollo,  the  biggest  in  the  gardens. 
He  is  rising  in  his  car  out  of  the  water,  sur- 
rounded by  nymphs  and  tritons,  all  in  bronze, 
and  finely  executed;  and  these,  as  tho}^ 
play,  raise  a  perfect  storm  about  him:  be- 
yond this  is  the  great  canal,  a  prodigious 
long  piece  of  water,  that  terminates  the 
whole.     All  this  you  have  at  one  coup  d'oeil 


b4  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

in  entering  the  garden,  which  is  truly  great. 
I  cannot  say  as  much  of  the  general  taste  of 
the  place;  every  thing  you  behold  savours 
too  much  of  art;  all  is  forced,  all  is  con- 
strained about  you;  statues  and  vases  sowed 
every  where  without  distinction;  sugar- 
loaves  and  minced-pies  of  yew;  scrawl- 
work  of  box,  and  little  squirting  jets  d'eau, 
besides  a  great  sameness  in  the  walks,  cannot 
help  striking  one  at  first  sight,  not  to  men- 
tion the  silliest  of  labyrinths,  and  all  ^Esop's 
fabl'S  in  water;  since  these  were  designed 
in  usumDelphini  only.  Here  then  we  walk  by 
moon  light,  and  hear  the  ladies  and  the  night- 
ingales sing.  Next  morning,  being  Whitsun- 
day, make  ready  to  go  to  the  Installation  of 
nine  knights  du  Saint  Esprit,  Cambis  is  one:* 
high  mass  celebrated  with  music,  great 
crowd,  much  incense,  king,  queen,  dauphin, 
mesdames,  cardinals,  and  court!  knights  ar- 
rayed by  his  majesty;  reverences  before  the 
altar,  not  bows,  but  curtsies;  stiff  hams; 
much  tittering  among  the  ladi-es;  trumpets, 
kettle-drums,  and  fifes.  My  dear  West,  I 
am  vastly  delighted  with  Trianon,  all  of  us 
with  Chantilly;  if  you  would  know  why,  you 

*The  Comte  de  Cambis  w.^  lately  returned  from  his  Embassy 
in  Eu^landt 


<iRAY  S    LETTERS,  bO 


must  have  patience,  for  I  can  hold  my  pen 
no  longer,  except  to  tell  you  that  I  saw  Bri- 
tannicus  last  nijrht;  all  the  characters,  par- 
ticularly Agrippina  ami  Nero,  clone  to  per- 
fection; to-morrow  Phaedra  and  Hi()jjolvtus. 
We  are  making  you  a  little  bundle  of  petite 
pieces;  there  is  nothing  in  them,  hut  they 
are  acting  at  present;  there  are  two  Cre- 
billon's  Letters,  and  Amusemens  sur  Je  Ian- 
gage  des  Betes,  said  to  be  of  one  Bougeant, 
a  Jesuit;  they  are  both  esteemed,  ;i:id  I  rely 
come  out.  This  day  se'nnight  we  go  to 
Rheims. 


XXH, 

TO    MIS    MOTHER. 

Rheims,  June  21,  N.  S.  17Sf. 

We  have  now  been  settled  almost  l  iee 
weeks  in  this  citv,  which  is  more  con^^idera- 
ble  upon  account  of  its  size  and  antiquity, 
than  from  the  number  of  its  inhabitants,  or 
any  advantages  of  commerce.  There  is 
little  in  it  worth  a  stranger's  curiosity,  be- 
sides the  cathedral  church,  which  is  a  vast 
Gothic  building  of  a  surprising  beauty  and 
lightness,  all  covered  over  with  a  profusion 


bG  gray's  letters. 

of  little  statues,  and  other  ornaments.  It  is 
here  the  kings  of  France  are  crowned  by  the 
arclibiflhop  of  Rheims,  who  is  the  tirst  peer, 
and  the  primate  of  the  kingdom.  The  holy 
vessel  made  use  of  on  <^^hat  occasion,  which 
contains  the  oil,  is  kept  in  the  church  of 
St.  Nicasius  hard  by,  and  is  believed  to 
have  been  brought  by  an  angel  from  heaven 
at  the  coronation  of  Clovis,  the  first  Chris- 
tian king.  The  streets  in  general  have  but 
a  melanch/)ly  aspect,  the  houses  all  old;  the 
public  walks  run  along  the  side  of  a  great 
moat  under  the  ramparts,  where  one  hears 
a  continual  croaking  of  frogs;  the  country 
round  about  is  one  great  plain  covered  with 
vines,  which  at  this  time  of  the  year  afford 
no  very  pleading  prospect,  as  being  not 
above  a  foot  high.  What  pleasures  the 
place  denies  to  the  sight,  it  makes  up  to  the 
palate;  since  you  have  nothing  to  drink  but 
ihe  best  champaigne  in  the  world,  and  all' 
sorts  of  provisions  equally  good.  As  to 
other  pleasures,  there  is  not  that  freedom  of 
conversation  among  the  people  of  fashion 
iiere,  that  one  sees  in  other  parts  of  France; 
for  though  they  are  not  very  numerous  in 
this  place,  and  consequently  must  live  a  good 
deal  together,  yet  they  never  come  to  any 
f^reat  familiarity  with  one  another.     As  my 


gray's  letters.  57 

lord  Conway  had  spent  a  good  part  of  his 
time  among  them,  his  brother,  and  we  with 
him,  were  soon  introduced  into  all  their  as- 
semblies. As  soon  as  you  enter,  the  lady  of 
the  house  presents  each  of  you  a  card,  and 
offers  }ou  a  party  at  quadrille;  you  sit  down, 
and  play  forty  deals  without  intermission, 
excepting  one  quarter  of  an  hour,  when 
every  body  rises  to  eat  of  what  they  call  the 
gonter,  which  supplies  the  place  of  our  tea, 
and  is  a  service  of  wine,  fruits,  cream,  sweet- 
meats, crawfish,  and  cheese.  People  take 
what  they  like,  and  sit  down  again  to  play; 
after  that,  they  make  little  parties  to  go  to 
the  walks  together,  and  then  all  the  com- 
pany retire  to  their  separate  habitations. 
Very  seldom  any  suppers  or  dinners  are 
given;  and  this  is  the  manner  they  live 
Among  one  another;  not  so  much  out  of  any 
aversion  they  have  to  pleasure,  as  out  of  a 
sort  of  formality  they  have  contracted  by  not 
being  much  frequented  by  people  who  have 
lived  at  Paris.  It  is  sure  they  do  not  hate 
gayety  any  more  than  the  rest  of  their  coun- 
try-people, and  can  enter  into  diversions, 
that  are  once  proposed,  with  a  good  grace 
enough;  for  instance,  the  other  evening  we 
happened  to  be  got  together  in  a  company  of 
eighteen   people,   men  and    women   of  the 


58  gr^^y's  letters. 

bes!  fashion  here,  at  a  garden  in  the  town, 
to  walk;  when  one  of  the  hulies  bethought 
herstlf  of  askins^,  why  should  not  we  sup 
here?  Inrimediately  the  cloth  was  laid  by  the 
side  of  a  fountain  under  thf  trees,  and  a  very 
elegtint  supper  served  up:  after  which  ano- 
ther said,  Conie,  let  us  sing;  and  directly 
be^Mn  herself  From  singing  we  insensibly- 
fell  to  dancing,  and  singing  in  a  round:  when 
somebody  mentioned  the  violins,  and  imme- 
diately a  coripany  of  them  was  ordered. 
Minuets  were  begun  in  the  open  air,  and 
then  some  country-dances,  which  held  till 
four  o'clock  next  morning;  at  which  hour 
the  gayest  l^dy  there  proposed,  thHt  such  as 
were  weary  should  get  into  their  coaches, 
and  the  r'?st  of  them  should  dance  before 
them  with  the  music  in  the  van;  and  in  this 
manner  we  paraded  through  all  the  princi- 
pal streets  of  the  city  and  waked  every 
bodv  in  it.  Mr.  Walpole  had  a  mind  to  make 
a  custom  of  the  thing,  and  would  have  given 
a  ball  in  the  same  manner  next  week,  but 
the  women  did  not  come  into  it;  so  I  believe 
it  will  drop,  and  they  will  return  to  their 
dull  cards,  and  usual  formalities.  We  are 
not  to  stay  above  a  month  longer  here,  and 
shall  then  go  to  Dijon,  the  chief  city  of  Bur- 
gundy, a  very  splendid  and  a  very  gay  town; 
at  least  such  is  the  present  design. 


SRA5f's    LETTERS.  69 

XXIII. 

TO    HIS    FATHER. 

Dijon,  Friday,  Sept.  11,  N.  S.  1739. 

We  have  made  thre«  ihort  days'  journey  of 
it  from  Rheims  hither,  where  we  arrived 
the  night  before  last.  The  road  we  have 
passed  through  has  been  extremely  agreea- 
ble: it  runs  through  the  most  fertile  part  of 
Champaigne  by  the  side  of  the  river  Marne, 
with  a  chain  of  hills  on  each  hand  at  some 
distance,  entirely  covered  with  woods  and 
vineyards,  and  every  now  and  then  the 
ruins  of  some  old  castle  on  their  tops:  we 
lay  at  St.  Dizier  the  tirst  night,  and  at 
Langres  the  second,  and  got  hither  the  next 
evening  time  enough  to  have  a  full  view  of 
this  city  in  entering  it.  It  lies  in  a  very 
extensive  plain  covered  with  vines  and  corn, 
and  consequently  is  plentifully  stipplied  with 
both.  I  need  not  tell  you  that  it  is  the  chief 
city  of  Burgundy,  nor  that  it  is  of  great  an- 
tiquit}';  considering  which  one  should  ima- 
gine it  ought  to  he  larger  than  one  finds  it. 
However,  what  it  wants  in  extent  is  made 
up  in  beauty  and  cleanliness,  and  iii  rich 
convents  and  churches,  most  ot  which  we 


60  gray's  letters. 

have  seen.  The  palace  of  the  States  is  a 
magnificent  new  building,  where  the  duke  of 
Bourbon  is  lodged  when  he  comes  every 
three  years  to  hold  that  assembly,  as  gover- 
nor of  the  province.  A  quarter  of  a  mile 
out  of  the  town  is  a  famous  abbey  of  Carthu- 
sians, which  we  are  just  returned  from  see- 
ing. In  their  chapel  are  the  tombs  of  the 
ancient  dukes  of  Burgundy,  that  were  so 
powerful,  till,  at  the  death  of  Charles  the 
Bold,  the  last  of  them,  this  part  of  his  domi- 
nions was  united  by  Louis  XI.  to  the  crown 
of  France.  To-morrow  we  are  to  pay  a 
visit  to  the  abbot  of  the  Cistercians,  who 
lives  a  few  leagues  off,  and  who  uses  to  re- 
ceive all  strangers  with  great  civility;  his 
abbey  is  one  of  the  richest  in  the  kingdom; 
he  keeps  open  house  always,  and  lives  with 
great  magnificence.  We  have  seen  enough 
of  this  town  already,  to  make  us  regret  the 
time  we  spent  at  Rheims;  it  is  full  of  peo- 
ple of  condition,  who  seem  to  form  a  much 
more  agreeable  society  than  we  found  in 
Champaigne;  but  as  we  shall  stay  here  but 
two  or  three  days  longer,  it  is  not  worth 
while  to  be  introduced  into  their  houses. 
On  Monday  or  Tuesday  we  are  to  set  out 
for  Lyons,  which  is  two  days'  journey  dis- 
tant, and  from  thence  you  shall  hear  again 
from  me. 


gray's  letters.  61 


XXIV. 


TO    MR.    WEST. 


Lyons,  Sept.  18,  N.  S.  1739. 

ScAVEZ  vous  bien,  mon  cher  ami,  que  je 
vous  hais,  que  je  vous  deteste?  voila  des 
termes  un  peu  fortes;  and  that  will  save 
me,  upon  a  just  computation,  a  page  of  pa- 
per and  six  drops  of  ink;  which,  if  I  confin- 
ed myself  to  reproaches  of  a  more  mode- 
rate nature,  1  should  be  obliged  to  employ 
in  using  you  according  to  your  deserts. 
What!  to  let  any  body  reside  three  months 
at  Rheims,  and  write  but  once  to  them? 
Please  to  consult  Tully  de  Amicit.  page  5, 
line  25,  and  you  will  find  it  said  in  express 
terms,  "  Ad  amicum  inter  Remos  relegatum 
mense  uno  quinquies  scriptum  esto;"  noth- 
ing more  plain,  or  less  liable  to  false  inter- 
pretations. Now  because,  I  suppose,  it  will 
give  you  pain  to  know  we  are  in  being,  I 
take  this  opportunity  to  tell  you  that  we  are 
at  the  ancient  and  celebrated  Lugdunum.  a 
city  situated  upon  the  confluence  of  the 
Rhone  and  Saone  (Arar,  I  should  say)  two 
people,  who,  though  of  tempers  extremely 
unlike,  think  fit  to  join  hands  here,  and  make 


62  gray's  letters. 

a  little  party  to  travel  to  the  Mediterranean 
in  company:  the  lady  comes  gliding  along 
through  the  fruitful  plains  of  Burgundy,  in- 
credibili  lenitate,  ita  ut  oculis  in  utram  par- 
tem tluit  judicari  non  possit;  the  gentleman 
runs  all  rough  and  roaring  down  from  the 
mountains  of  Switzerland  to  meet  her;  and 
with  all  her  soft  airs  she  likes  him  never  the 
worse:  she  goes  through  the  middle  of  the 
city  in  state,  and  he  passes  incog,  without 
the  waHs,  but  waits  for  her  a  little  below. 
The  houses  here  are  so  high,  and  the  streets 
so  narrow,  as  would  be  sufficient  to  render 
-Lyons  the  dismallest  place  in  the  world;  but 
the  number  of  people,  and  the  face  of  com- 
merce diffused  about  it,  are,  at  least,  as  suffi* 
cient  to  makp  it  the  liveliest.  Between 
these  two  sufficiencies,  you  will  be  in  doubt 
what  to. think  of  it;  so  we  shall  leave  the 
city,  and  proceed  to  its  environs,  which  are 
beautiful  beyond  expression:  it  is  surrounded 
with  mountains,  and  those  mountains  all  be- 
dropped  and  bespeckled  with  houses,  gar- 
dens, and  plantations  of  the  rich  Bourgeois, 
who  have  from  thence  a  prospect  of  the 
city  in  the  vale  b«^low  on  one  hand,  on  the 
other  the  rich  plains  of  the  Lyonnois,  with 
th.i  rivers  winding  among  them,  and  the 
Alps,  with  the  mountains  of  Daupbine,  to 


gray's  letters.  63 

bound  the  view.  All  yesterday  morning  we 
were  busied  in  climbing  up  Mount  Four- 
viere,  where  the  ancient  city  stood  perched 
at  such  a  height,  that  nothing  but  the  hopes 
of  gain  could  certainly  ever  persuade  their 
neighbours  to  pay  them  a  visit.  Here  are 
the  ruins  of  the  emperors'  palaces,  that  re- 
sided here,  that  is  to  say,  Augustus  and  Se- 
verus:  they  consist  in  nothing  but  great 
masses  of  old  wall,  that  have  only  their  qua- 
lity to  make  them  respected  In  a  vineyard 
of  the  Minims  are  remains  of  a  theatre;  the 
fathers,  whom  they  belong  to,  hold  them  in 
no  esteem  at  all,  and  would  have  showed  us 
their  sacristy  and  chapel  instead  of  them. 
The  Ursuline  Nuns  have  in  their  garden 
some  Roman  baths,  but  we  having  the  mis- 
fortune to  be  men,  and  heretics,  they  did  not 
think  proper  to  admit  us.  Hard  by  are 
eight  arches  of  a  most  magnificent  aqueduct, 
said  to  be  erected  by  Antony,  when  his  le- 
gions were  quartered  here:  there  are  many 
other  parts  of  it  dispersed  up  and  down  the 
country,  for  it  brought  the  water  from  a 
river  many  leagues  off  in  La  Forez.  Here 
are  remains  too  of  Agrippa's  seven  great 
roads  which  met  at  Lyons;  in  some  places 
they  lie  twelve  feet  deep  in  the  ground. 
In  short,  a  thousand  matters  that  you  shall 


64  gray's  letters. 

not  know,  till  you  give  me  a  description  of 
the  Pais  de  Tombridge,  and  the  efl'ect  its 
waters  have  upon  you. 


XXV. 

FROM  MR.   WEST. 

Temple,  Sept.  28,  1739. 

If  wishes  could  turn  to  realities,  i  would 
fling  down  my  law  books,  and  sup  with  you 
to-night.  But,  alas  !  here  I  am  doomed  to 
fix,  while  you  are  fluttering  from  city  to  city, 
and  enjoying  all  the  pleasures  which  a  gay 
climate  can  afibrd.  It  is  out  of  the  power  of 
my  heart  to  envy  your  good  fortune,  yet  I 
cannot  help  indulging  a  few  natural  desires; 
as  far  example,  to  take  a  walk  with  you  on 
the  banks  of  the  Rhone,  and  to  be  climbing 
up  mount  Fourviere; 

Jam  mens  prastrepidans  aret  vag^i  : 
Jam  laeti  studio  pedes  vigescuat. 

However,  so  long  as  I  am  not  deprived  of 
your  correspondence,  so  long  shall  I  always 
find  some  pleasure  in  being  at  home.  And, 
setting  all  vain  curiosit}^  aside,  when  the  tit 
is  over,  and  my  reason  begins  to  come  to 


gray's  letters.  65 

herself,  I  have  several  other  powerful  mo- 
tives which  might  eas^ily  cure  me  of  mv  rest- 
less inclinations.  Amongst  these,  my  mo- 
ther's ill  state  of  health  is  not  the  least, 
which  was  the  reason  of  our  going  to  Tun- 
bridge;  so  that  you  cannot  expect  much 
description  or  amusement  from  tiience.  Nor 
indeed  is  there  much  room  lor  eitiier;  for 
uU  diversions  there  may  be  reduced  to  two 
articles,  gaming  and  going  to  church.  They 
were  pleased  to  publish  certain  Tunbrigiana 
this  season;  but  such  ana  !  I  believe  there 
were  never  so  many  vile  little  verses  put 
together  before.  So  much  for  Tunbri.ige. 
London  affords  me  as  little  to  say.  VVliat ! 
so  huge  a  town  as  London  ?  Yes,  consider 
only  how  I  live  in  that  town.  1  never  go 
into  the  gay  or  high  world,  and  consequently 
receive  nothing  from  thence  to  brighten  my 
imagination.  The  busy  world  I  leave  to  the 
busy;  and  am  resolved  never  to  talk  politics 
till  I  can  act  at  the  same  time.  To  tell  old 
stories,  or  prate  of  old  books,  seems  a  little 
musty;  and  toujours  cbapon  bouilli,  won't 
do.  However,  for  want  of  better  flire,  take 
another  little  mouthful  of  my  poetry, 

O  meae  jucunda  comes  quietis  I 
Quae  fere  aegrotiuu  sulita  cs  leTate 


6S  gray's  letters. 

Pectus,  et  seniim,  a)i .'  nimis  ingi'uente? 
Fallere  curas : 

Quid  canes  ?  quanto  Lyra  die  furore 
Gesties,  quando  hac  reducem  sodalem 
Glauciam*  gaudere  simul  videbis 
Meque  sub  umbra  ? 


XXVI. 

TO  HIS  MOTHER. 

Lyons,  Oct.  13,  N.  S.  1739. 

It  is  now  almost  five  weeks  since  I  left  Di- 
jon, one  of  the  gayest  and  most  agreeable 
little  cities  of  France,  for  Lyons,  its  re- 
verse in  all  these  particulars.  it  is  the 
second  in  the  kingdom  in  bigness  and  rank; 
the  streets  excessively  narrow  and  nasty; 
the  houses  immensely  high  and  large;  (that, 
for  instance,  where  we  are  lodged,  has  twen- 
ty-five rooms  on  a  floor,  and  that  for  five 
stories) ;  it  swarms  with  inhabitants  like 
Paris  itself,  but  chiefly  a  mercantile  people, 
too  much  given  up  to  commerce  to  think  of 
their  own,  much  less  of  a  stranger's  diver- 
sions. We  have  no  acquaintance  in  the  town, 

*  He  gives  Mr.  Gray  the  name  of  Glaucias  frequently  in  hi& 
Latin  verse,  as  Mr.  Gray  calls  him  Farwjius. 


gray's  letters.  67 

but  such  English  as  happen  to  be  passing 
through  here,  in  their  way  to  Italy  and  the 
south,  which  at  present  happen  to,  be  near 
thirty  in  number.  It  is  a  fortnight  since  we 
set  out  from  hence  upon  a  little  excursioiTto 
Geneva.  We  took  the  longest  road,  which 
lies  through  Savoy,  on  purpose  to  see  a  fa- 
mous monastery,  called  the  Grande  Char- 
treuse, and  had  no  reason  to  think  our  time 
lost  After  having  travelled  seven  days  very 
slow  (for  we  did  not  change  horses,  it  being 
impossible  for  a  chaise  to  go  post  in  these 
roads)  we  arrived  at  a  little  village  among 
the  mountains  of  Savoy,  called  Echelles; 
from  thence  we  proceeded  on  horses,  who 
are  used  to  the  way,  to  the  mountain  of  the 
Chartreuse.  It  is  six  miles  to  the  top;  the 
road  runs  winding  up  it,  commonly  not  six 
feet  broad;  on  one  hand  is  the  rock  with 
woods  of  pine-trees  hanging  over  head;  on 
the  other  a  monstrous  precipice,  almost  per- 
pendicular, at  the  bottom  of  which  rolls  a 
torrent,  that  sometimes  tumbling  among  the 
fragments  of  stone  that  have  fallen  from  on 
high,  and  sometimes  precipitating  itself  down 
vast  descents  with  a  noise  like  thunder, 
which  is  still  made  greater  by  the  echo  from 
the  mountains  on  each  side,  concurs  to  form 
one  of  the  most  solemn,  the  most  romantic. 


68  gray's  letters. 

and  the  most  astonishing  scenes  I  ever  be- 
held. Add  to  this  the  strange  views  made 
by  the  crags  andcUffs  on  the  other  hand;  the 
cascades  that  in  many  places  throw  them- 
selves from  the  very  summit  down  into  the 
vale,  and  the  river  below,  and  many  other 
particulars  impossible  to  describe;  you  will 
conclude  we  had  no  occasion  to  repent  our 
pains.  This  place  St.  Bruno  chose  to  retire 
to,  and  upon  its  very  top  founded  the  afore- 
said convent,  which  is  the  superior  of  the 
whole  order.  When  we  came  there,  the 
two  fathers,  who  are  commissioned  to  enter- 
tain strangers  (for  the  rest  must  neither 
speak  one  to  another,  nor  to  any  one  else), 
received  us  very  kindly;  and  set  before  us 
a  repast  of  dried  fish,  eggs,  butter,  and  fruits, 
all  excellent  in  their  kind,  and  extremely 
neat.  They  pressed  us  to  spend  the  night 
there,  and  to  stay  some  days  with  them;  but 
this  we  could  not  do,  so  they  led  us  about 
their  house,  which  is,  you  must  think,  like 
a  little  city;  for  there  are  100  fathers,  be- 
sides 300  servants,  that  make  their  clothes, 
grind  their  corn,  press  their  wine,  and  do 
every  thing  among  themselves.  The  whole 
is  quite  orderly  and  simple;  nothing  of  finery, 
but  '^he  wonderful  decency,  and  the  strange 
situation,  more  than  supply  the  place  of  it. 


gray's  letters.  69 

In  the  evening  we  descended  by  the  same 
way,  passing  through  many  clouds  that  were 
then  forming  themselves  on  the  mountain's 
side.  Next  day  we  continued  our  journey 
by  Chamberry,  which,  though  the  chief  city 
of  the  duchy,  and  residence  of  the  king  of 
Sardinia,  when  he  comes  into  this  part  of  his 
dominions,  makes  but  a  very  mean  and  insig- 
nificant appearance;  we  lay  at  Aix,  once  fa- 
mous for  its  hot  baths,  and  the  next  night  at 
Annecy;  the  day  after,  by  noon,  we  got  to 
Geneva.  I  have  not  time  to  say  any  thing 
about  it,  nor  of  our  solitary  journey  back 
again.  *  *  * 


XXVII. 

TO  HIS  FATHER. 

Lyons,  Oct.  25,  N.  S.  1739. 

In  my  last  I  gave  you  the  particulars  of  our 
little  journey  to  Geneva:  I  have  only  to  add, 
that  we  stayed  about  a  week,  in  order  to  see 
Mr.  Conway  settled  there.  I  do  not  wonder 
so  many  English  choose  it  for  their  resi- 
dence; the  city  is  very  small,  neat,  prettily 
built,  and  extremely  populous;  the  Rhone 
runs  through  the  middle  of  it,  and  it  is  sur 


70 

rounded  with  new  fortifications,  that  give  it 
a  military  compact  air;  which,  joined  to  the 
happy,  lively  countenances  of  the  inhabitants, 
and  an  exact  discipline  always  as  strictly  ob- 
served as  in  time  of  war,  makes  the  little 
republic  appear  a  match  for  a  much  greater 
power;  though  perhaps  Geneva,  and  all  that 
belongs  to  it,  are  not  of  equal  extent  with 
Windsor  and  its  two  parks.  To  one  that  has 
passed  through  Savoy,  as  we  did,  nothing 
can  be  more  striking  than  the  contrast,  as 
soon  as  he  approaches  the  town.  Near  the 
gates  of  Geneva  runs  the  torrent  Arve,  which 
separates  it  from  the  king  of  Sardinia's  do- 
minions; on  the  other  side  of  it  lies  a  coun- 
try naturally,  indeed,  line  and  fertile;  but 
you  meet  with  nothing  in  it  but  meager,  rag- 
ged, bare-footed  peasants,  with  their  child- 
ren, in  extreme  misery  and  nastiness:  and 
even  of  these  no  great  numbers.  You  no 
sooner  have  crossed  the  stream  I  have  men- 
tioned, but  poverty  is  no  more;  not  a  beggar, 
hardly  a  discontented  face  to  be  seen  ;  nu- 
merous, and  well-dressed  people  swarming  on 
the  ramparts;  drums  beating,  soldiers,  well- 
clothed  and  armed,  exercising;  and  folks, 
with  business  in  their  looks,  hurrying  to  and 
fro;  all  contribute  to  make  any  person,  who. 
is  not  blind,  sensible  what  a  difference  there 


gray's    LETTERS,  71 

is  between  the  two  governments,  that  are  the 
causes    of  one  view  and    the    other.     The 
beautiful  lake,  at  one  end  of  which  the  town 
is  -ituated;  its  extent;  the  several  states  that 
border  upon  it;  and  all  its  pleasures,  are  too 
well  known  for  me  to  mention  them.      We 
sailed  upon  it  a*  far  as  the  dominions  of  Ge- 
neva extend,  that  is,  about  two  leagues  and  a 
half  on   each  side;  and  landed  at  several  of 
the  little  houses  of  pleasure  that  the  inhabi- 
tants have  built  all  about  it,  who  received  us 
with  much  politeness.     The  same  night  we 
eat  part  of  a  trout,  taken  in  the  lake,  that 
weighed  thirty-seven  pounds:  as  great  a  mon- 
ster as  it  appeared  to  us,  it  was  esteemed 
there  nothing  extraordinary,  and  they  assur- 
ed us,  it  was  not  uncommon  to  catch  then=  of 
fifty  pounds:  they  are  dressed  here,  and  sent 
post  to  Paris  upon  some  great  occasions;  nay, 
even  to  Madrid,  as  we  were  told.     The  road 
we  returned  through  was  not  the  same  we 
came  by;  we  crossed  the  Rhone  at  Seyssel, 
and  passed  for  three  d;.ys  amonj;  the  moun- 
tains of  Bugey,   without  meeting   with  any- 
thing new;    at  last  we  came   out  into   the 
plains  of  La  Bresse,  and  so  to  Lyons  again. 
Sir  Robert  has  written  to  Mr.  Walpole,  to 
desire  he  would  go  to    Italy,  which  he  has 
resolved   to   do:  so  that  all  the  scheme  of 


72  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

spen  ling  the  winter  in  the  south  of  France 
is  laid  aside,  and  we  are  to  pass  it  in  a 
much  l^ner  country.  You  may  imagine  1 
am  not  sorry  to  have  this  opportunity  of 
seeing  the  place  in  the  world  that  best  de- 
serves it:  besides,  as  the  pope,  who  is 
eighty-eight,  and  has  been  lately  at  the 
point  of  death,  cannot  probably  last  a  great 
while,  perhaps  we  may  have  the  fortune  to 
be  present  at  the  election  of  a  new  one, 
when  Rome  will  be  in  all  its  glor}^  Friday 
next  we  certainly  begin  our  journey;  in  two 
days  we  shall  come  to  the  foot  of  the  Alps, 
and  six  more  we  shall  be  in  passing  them. 
Even  here  the  winter  is  begun;  what  then 
must  it  be  among  those  vast  snowy  moun- 
tains where  it  is  hardly  ever  summer?  We 
are,  however,  as  well  armed  as  possible 
against  the  cold,  with  mulTs,  hoods,  and 
masks  of  beayer,  fur-boots,  and  bear  skins. 
When  we  arrive  at  Turin,  we  shall  rest  after 
the  fatigues  of  the  journey-.  *  *  * 

XXVIII. 

TO    HIS    MOTHER. 

Turin,  Nor.  7,  N.  S.  1739. 

T   AM  this  night  arrived  here,  and  have  just 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  (S 

sat  down  to  rest  me  after  eight  days'  tire- 
some journey:  For  the  three  first  we  had 
the  same  road  we  before  passed  through  to 
go  to  Geneva;  the  fourth  we  turned  out  of 
it,  and  for  that  day  and  the  next  travelled 
rather  among  than  upon  the  Alps;  the  way 
commonly  running  through  a  deep  valley 
by  the  side  of  the  river  Arc,  which  works 
itself  a  passage,  with  great  difficulty  and  a 
mighty  noise,  among  vast  quantities  of  rocks, 
that  have  rolled  down  from  the  mountaio 
tops.  The  winter  was  so  far  advanced,  as 
in  great  measure  to  spoil  the  beauty  of  the 
prospect;  however,  there  was  still  some- 
what line  remaining  amidst  the  savageness 
and  horror  of  the  place:  The  sixth  we  be- 
gan to  go  up  several  of  thesd  mountains; 
and  as  we  were  passing  one,  met  with  an  odd 
accident  enough:  Mr.  Walpole  had  a  little 
fat  black  spaniel,  that  he  was  very  fond  of, 
which  he  sometimes  used  to  set  down,  and 
let  it  run  by  the  chaise  side.  We  were  at 
that  time  in  a  very  rough  road,  not  two 
yards  broad  at  most;  on  one  side  was  a 
great  wood  of  pines,  and  on  the  other  a  vast 
precipice;  it  was  noon-day,  and  the  sun 
shone  bright,  when  all  of  a  sudden,  from 
the  wood-side,  (which  was  as  steep  upwards 
as  the  other  part  was  downwards)  out  rush- 


74  gray's  letters. 

ed  a  great  wolf,  came  close  to  the  head  of 
the  horses,  seized  the  dog  by  he  throat, 
and  rushed  up  the  hill  again  with  him  in  his 
mouth.  This  was  done  in  less  than  a  quar- 
ter of  a  minute;  we  all  saw  it,  and  yet  the 
servants  had  not  time  to  draw  their  pistols, 
or  do  any  thing  to  save  the  dog.  If  he  had 
not  been  there,  and  the  creature  had  thought 
lit  to  lay  hold  of  one  of  the  horses;  chaise, 
and  we,  and  all  must  inevitably  have  tumbled 
above  fifty  fathoms  perpendicular  down  the 
precipice.  The  seventh  we  came  to  Lane- 
bourgh,  the  last  town  in  Savoy;  it  lies  at  the 
foot  of  the  famous'Mount  Cenis,  which  is  so 
situated  as  to  allow  no  room  for  any  way 
but  over  the  very  top  of  it.  Here  the 
chaise  was  forced  to  be  pulled  to  pieces,  and 
the  baggage  and  that  to  be  carried  by  mules: 
We  ourselves  were  wrapped  up  in  oar  furs, 
and  seated  upon  a  sort  of  matted  chair  witliout 
legs,  which  is  carried  upon  poles  in  the  man- 
ner of  a  bier,  and  so  began  to  ascend  by  the 
help  of  eight  men.  It  was  six  miles  to  the 
top,  where  a  plain  opens  itself  about  as  many 
more  in  breadth,  covered  perpetually  with 
very  deep  snow,  and  in  the  midst  of  that  a  great 
lake  of  i]nfathoniable  depth,  from  whence  a 
river  takes  its  rise,  and  tumbles  over  man- 
strous  rocks  quite  down   the   other   side  of 


gray's  letters.  75 

the  mountain.  The  descent  is  six  miles 
more,  but  infinitely  more  steep  than  the 
going  up;  and  here  the  men  perfectly  flj 
down  with  you,  stepping  from  stone  to  stone 
with  incredible  swiftness  in  places  where 
none  but  they  could  go  three  paces  without 
falling.  The  immensity  of  the  precipices, 
the  roaring  of  the  river  and  torrents  that 
run  into  it,  the  huge  crags  covered  with  ice 
and  snow,  and  the  clouds  below  you  and 
about  you,  are  objects  it  is  impossible  to 
conceive  without  seeing  them;  and  though 
we  had  heard  many  strange  descriptions  of 
the  scene,  none  of  them  at  all  came  up  to  it. 
We  were  but  five  hours  in  performing  the 
whole,  from  which  you  may  judge  of  the 
rapidity  of  the  men's  motion.  We  are 
now  got  into  Piedmont,  and  stopped  a  little 
while  at  La  Ferriere,  a  small  village  about 
three  quarters  of  the  way  down,  but  still 
among  the  clouds,  where  we  began  to  hear 
a  new  language  spoken  round  about  us;  at 
last  we  got  quite  down,  went  through  the 
Pas  de  Suse,  a  narrow  road  among  the  Alps, 
defended  by  two  fortresses,  and  lay  at 
Bossolens:  Next  evening,  through  a  fine 
avenue  of  nine  miles  in  length,  as  straight 
as  a  line,  we  arrived  at  this  city,  which,  as 
you  know,  is  the  capital  of  the  principality, 


76  gray's  letters. 

and  the  residence  of  the  king  of  Sardinia.*** 
We  shall  stay  here,  I  believe,  a  fortnight, 
and  proceed  for  Genoa,  which  is  three  or 
four  days'  journey,  to  go  post. 

I  am,  kc. 


XXIX. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

Turin,  Nov.  16,  N.  S.  1739. 

After  eight  days'  journey  through  Green- 
land, we  arrived  at  Turin — you  approach 
it  by  a  handsome  avenue  of  nine  .miles  long, 
and  quite  straight.  The  entrance  is  guard- 
ed by  certain  vigilant  dragons,  called  Dou- 
aniers,  who  mumbled  us  for  some  time. 
The  city  is  not  large,  as  being  a  place 
of  strength,  and  consequently  contined 
within  its  fortifications;  it  has  many  beau- 
ties and  some  faults;  among  the  tirst 
are  streets  all  laid  out  by  the    line,    regu- 

***  That  part  of  the  letter  here  omitted,  contained  only  a  de- 
scription of  the  city;  which,  as  Mr.  Gray  has  given  it  to  Mr. 
West  in  the  following  letter,  and  that  in  a  more  lively  man, 
ner,  I  thought  it  unnecessurv  to  insert ;  a  liberty  I  have  taken 
in  other  parts  of  this  correspondence,  in  order  to  avoid  repe- 
titions. 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  7/ 

lar  uniform  buildings,  fine  walks  that  sur- 
round the  whole,  and  in  general  a  good  live- 
ly  clean  appearance:  but  the  houses  are  of 
brick,  plastered,  which  is  apt  to  want  re- 
pairing; the  windows  of  oiled  paper,  which 
is  apt  to  be  torn;  and  every  thing  very 
slight,  whicn  is  apt  to  tumble  down.  There 
is  an  excellent  opera,  but  it  is  only  in  the 
carnival:  Balls  every  night,  but  only  in  the 
carnival:  Masquerades  too,  but  only  in  the 
carnival.  This  carnival  lasts  only  from 
Christmas  to  Lent;  one  half  of  the  remain- 
ing part  of  the  year  is  passed  in  remember- 
ing the  last,  the  other  in  expecting  the  future 
carnival.  We  cannot  well  subsist  upon  such 
slender  diet,  no  more  than  upon  an  execra- 
ble Italian  comedy,  and  a  puppet  show, 
called  Rappresentazione  d'un'  anima  dannata, 
which,  I  think,  are  all  the  present  diversions 
of  the  place;  except  the  Marquise  de  Ca- 
vaillac's  conversazione,  where  one  goes  to 
see  people  play  at  ombre  and  taroc,  a  game 
with  72  cards  all  painted  with  suns,  .and 
moons,  and  devils,  and  monks.  Mr.  Wal- 
})ole  has  been  at  court;  the  family  are  at 
present  at  a  country  pahice,  called  La  Vene- 
rie.  The  palace  here  in  town  is  the  very 
quintessence  of  gilding  and  looking  glass;  in- 
laid floors,   carved    panels,    and     painting, 


78  gray's  letters. 

wherever  they  could  stick  a  brush.  I  own 
1  have  not,  as  yet,  any  where  met  with  tiiose 
grand  and  simple  works  of  art,  that  are  to 
amaze  one,  and  whose  sight  one  is  to  be  the 
better  for:  But  those  of  nature  have  aston- 
ished me  beyond  expression.  In  our  little 
journey  up  to  the  Grande  Chartreuse,  I  do 
not  remember  to  have  gone  ten  pares  with- 
out an  exclamation,  that  there  was  no  re- 
straining. Not  a  precipice,  not  a  torrent,  not 
a  cliff,  but  is  pregnant  with  religion  and 
poetry.  There  are  certain  scenes  that 
would  awe  an  atheist  into  belief,  without 
the  help  of  other  argument  One  need  not 
have  a  very  fantastic  imagination  to  see 
spirits  there  at  noon  day:  You  have  death 
perpetually  before  your  eyes;  only  so  far 
removed,  as  to  compose  the  mind  without 
frighting  it.  I  am  well  persuaded  St.  Bruno 
was  a  man  of  no  common  genius,  to  choose 
such  a  situation  for  his  retirement;  and  per- 
haps should  have  been  a  disciple  of  his,  had 
I  been  born  in  his  time.  You  may  believe 
Abelard  and  Heloise  were  not  forgot  upon 
this  occasion:  If  I  do  not  mistake,  I  saw  you 
too  every  now  and  then  at  a  distance  among 
the  trees;  il  me  semble,  que  j'ai  vu  ce  chien 
de  visage  la  quelquo  purt.  You  seemed  to  call 
to  me  from  the  other  side  of  the  precipice. 


**  gray's  letters.  70 

but  the  noise    of  the    river  below    was   so 
great,    that   I   really    could    not   distinguish 
what  you  said;  it  seemed  to  have  a  cadence 
like  verse.     In  your  next  you   will    be    so 
good    to    let  me   know   what   it    was       The 
week  we  have  since  passed  among  the  Alps, 
has  not  equalled  the   single  day    upon    that 
mountam,   because   the    winter    was    rather 
too  far  advanced,  and*  the  weather   a  little 
foggy.     However,  it  did  not  want   its   beau- 
ties; the  savage  rudeness  of  the  view  is   in- 
conceivable without  seeing  it:    I    reckoned, 
in  one   day,  thirteen  cascades,   the  least   of 
which  was,  I  dare   say,  one  hundred  feet  in 
height.     I   had  Livy  in  the  chaise  with  me, 
and   beheld  his  "Nives  coelo  prope  immis- 
tae,  tecta  informia  imposita  jupibus,  pecora 
jumentaque  torrida  frigore,  homines  intonsi 
et  inculti,  animalia  inanimaque  omnia  rigentia 
gelu;  omnia  confragosa,  praeruptaque.""    The 
creatures   that  inhabit  them  are,  in  all  res- 
pects, below  humanity;  and  most  of  them,  es- 
pecially women,   have  the  tumidum  guttur, 
which  they  call  goscia.     Mont  Cenis,  I  con- 
fess, carries  the  permission   mountains  have 
of  being  frightful  rather  too  far;  and  its  hor- 
rors were  accompanied  with  too  munh  dan- 
ger to  give  one  time   to  reflect  upon  their 
beauties.     There  is  a  family  of  the  Alpine 


80  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

monsters  I  have  mentioned,  upon  its  very 
top,  that  in  the  middle  of  winter  calmly  lay 
in  their  stock  of  provisions  and  firing,  and 
so  are  buried  in  their  hut  for  a  month  or 
two  under  the  snow.  V/hen  vve  were  down 
it,  and  got  a  little  way  into  Piedmont,  we 
began  to  find  "  Apricos  quosdam  colles, 
rivosque  prope  silvas,  et  jam  humano  cultu 
digniora  loca.""  I  r^d  Silius  Italicus  too, 
for  the  first  time  ;  and  wished  for  you,  ac- 
cording to  custom. — V/e  set  oat  for  Genoa 
in  two  days'  time. 


XXX. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

Genoa,  Nov.  21,  1739. 
HoiTnlos  tractus,  Boreasque  linquens 
Regna  Tauriuj  fera,molliorem 
Adveaor  brumain,  Geuuaequt  amantes 

Litoi-a  soles. 

At  least,  if  they  do  not,  they  have  a  very 
ill  taste  ;  for  I  never  beheld  any  tiling  more 
amiable:  Only  figure  to  yourself  a  vast 
semicircular  basin,  full  of  fine  blje  sea,  and 
vessels  of  all  sorts  and  sizes,  some  sailing 
out,  some  coming  in,  and  others  at  anchor  ; 


qray's  letters.  81 

and  all  round  it  palaces  and  churches  peep- 
ing over  one  another's  heads,  gardens,  and 
marble  terraces  lull  of  orange  and  cypress 
trees,  fountains,  and  trellis-works  covered 
with  vines,  which  altogether  compose  the 
grandest  of  theatres. — This  is  the  first  coup 
d'ceil,  and  is  almost  all  I  am  yet  able  to 
give  you  an  account  of,  for  we  arrived  late 
last  night.  To-day  was,  luckily,  a  great 
festival,  and  in  the  morning  we  resorted  to 
the  church  of  the  Madonna  delle  Vigne,  to 
put  up  our  little  orisons  ;  (1  believe  I  forgot 
to  tell  you,  that  we  have  been  sometime 
converts  to  the  holy  catholic  church)  :  we 
found  our  lady  richly  dressed  out,  with  a 
crovvn  of  diamonds  on  her  own  head,  another 
upon  the  child's,  and  a  constellation  of  wax 
lights  burning  before  them  :  Shortly  after 
came  the  doge,  in  his  robes  of  crimson  dam- 
ask, and  a  cap  of  the  same,  followed  by  the 
senate  in  black.  Upon  his  approach,  began 
a  fine  concert  of  music,  and  among  the  rest 
two  eunuchs'  voices  that  were  a  perfect 
feast  to  ears  that  had  heard  nothing  but 
French  operas  for  a  year.  We  listened  to 
this,  and  breathed  nothing  but  incense  fcr 
two  hours  The  doge  is  a  very  tall,  lean, 
stately,  old  figure,  called  Constantino  Balbi  ; 
and   the  senate  seem  to    have   been   made 

VOL.  IV.  6 


82  gray's  letters. 

upon  the  same  model. — They  said  their 
prayers,  and  heard  an  absurd  white  friar 
preach,  with  equal  devotion.  After  this 
we  went  to  the  Annonciata,  a  church  built 
by  the  family  Lomellini,  and  belonging  to 
it ;  which  is,  indeed,  a  most  stately  struc- 
ture ;  the  inside  wholly  marble  of  various 
kinds,  except  where  gold  and  painting  take 
its  place. — From  hence  to  the  Palazzo 
Doria.  I  should  make  you  sick  of  marble, 
if  I  told  you  how  it  was  lavished  here  upon 
the  porticoes,  the  ballustrades,  and  terraces, 
the  lowest  of  which  extends  quite  to  the 
sea.  The  inside  is  by  no  means  answerable 
to  the  outward  magnificence  ;  the  furniture 
seems  to  be  as  old  as  the  founder  of  the  fami- 
ly.* Their  great  embossed  silver  tables 
tell  you,  in  bas-relief,  his  victories  at  sea  ; 
how  he  entertained  the  emperor  Charles, 
and  how  he  refused  the  sovereignty  of  the 
commonwealth  when  it  was  offered  him  ; 
the  rest  is  old-fashioned  velvet  chairs,  and 
Gothic  tapestry.  The  rest  of  the  day  has 
been  spent,  much  to  our  hearts'*  content,  in 
cursing  French  music  and  architecture,  and 
in  singing  the  praises  of  Italy.  We  find 
this  place  so  very  fine,   that  we   are  in  fear 

*  The  famout  Andrea  Doria. 


gray's  letters.  83 

of  finding  nothing  finer. — We  are  fallen  in 
love  with  the  Mediterranean  sea,  and  hold 
your  lakes  and  your  rivers  in  vast  contempt. 
This  is 

"  The  happy  country  where  huge  lemons  grow," 

as  Waller  says  ;  and  I  am  sorry  to  think  of 
leaving  it  in  a  week  for  Parma,  although  it 
be 

The  happy  country  where  huge  cheeses  grow. 


XXXI. 

TO    HIS    MOTHER. 

Bologna,  Dec.  9,  N.  S.  1739. 

Our  journey  hither  has  taken  up  much  less 
time  than  I  expected.  We  lelt  Genoa  (a 
charming  place,  and  one  that  deserved  a 
longer  stay)  the  week  before  last ;  crossed 
the  mountains,  and  lay  that  night  at  Torto- 
na,  the  next  at  St.  Giovanni,  and  the  morn- 
ing after  came  to  Piacenza.  That  city, 
(though  the  capital  of  a  duchy)  made  so 
frippery  an  appearance,  that  instead  of 
spending  some  days  there,  as  had  been  in- 
tended,  we   only   dined,    and   went   on   to 


84  GRAy'jJ    LETTERS, 

Parma ;  stayed  there  all  the  following  day, 
which  was  passed  in  visiting  the  famous 
works  of  Corregio  in  the  Dome,  and  other 
churches. — The  tine  gallery  of  pictures, 
that  once  belonged  to  the  dukes  of  Parma, 
is  no  more  here  ;  the  king  of  Naples  has 
carried  it  all  thither,  and  the  city  had  not 
merit  enough  to  detain  us  any  longer,  so  we 
proceeded  through  Reggio  to  Modena  ;  this, 
though  the  residence  of  its  duke,  is  an  ill- 
built  melancholy  place,  all  of  brick,  as  are 
most  of  the  towns  in  this  part  of  Lombardy  : 
He  himself  lives  in  a  private  m^inner,  with 
very  little  appearance  of  a  court  about  him  ; 
he  has  one  of  tiie  noblest  collections  of 
paintings  in  the  world,  which  entertained  us 
extremely  well  the  rest  of  that  day  and  a 
part  of  the  next ;  and  in  the  afternoon  we 
came  to  Bologna :  so  now  you  may  wish  us 
joy  of  being  in  the  dominions  of  his  Holi- 
ness, This  is  a  populqius  city,  and  of  great 
extent :  All  the  streets  have  porticoes  on 
both  sides,  such  as  surround  a  part  of 
Covent-Garden,  a  great  relief  in  summer- 
time in  such  a  climate  ;  and  from  one  of  the 
principal  gates  to  a  church  of  the  Virgin, 
(where  is  a  wonder-working  picture,  at 
three  miles  distance)  runs  a  corridor  of  the 
same    sort,    lately    finished,    and,    indeed, 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  85 

a  most   extraordinary   performance.      The 
churches    here    are   more    remarkable   for 
their  paintings  than  architecture,  being  most- 
ly old  structures  of  brick  ;   but  the  palaces 
are  numerous,  and  fine  enough  to  supply  us 
with   somewhat   worth    seeing   from  morn- 
ing till   night.     The  country  of  Lombardy, 
hitherto,  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  imagi- 
nable ;  the  roads  broad,  a^ld  exactly  straight, 
and  on  either  hand  vast  plantations  of  trees, 
chiefly  mulberries  and  olives,  and  not  a  tree 
without  a  vine  twining  about  it  and  spread- 
ing among   its    branches.     This   scene,  in- 
deed, whicli  must  be  the  most  lovely  in  the 
world  during  the  proper  season,  is   at  pre- 
sent all  deformed  by  the  winter,  which  here 
is  rigorous  enough  for  the  time  it  lasts  ;  but 
one   still   sees   the   skeleton  of  a  charming 
place,  and  reaps  the  benefit  of  its  product  ; 
for  the  fruits  and  provisions  are  admirable  : 
in  short,  you   find  every   thing  that  luxury 
can   desire,    in  perfection.     We   have  now 
been  here  a  week,  and  shall  stay  some  little 
time   longer.     We    are    at  the    foot   of  the 
Apennine   mountains  ;   it  will  take  up  tbrefe 
days  to  cross  them,  and  then  we  shall  come 
to  Florence,  where  we  shall  pass  the  Christ- 
mas.    Till   then  we  must  remain  in  a  state 
of  ignorance  as  to  what  is  doing  in  England, 


CRAY  S    LETTERS. 


for  our  letters  are  to  meet  us  there  :  If  I  do 
not  find  four  or  five  from  you  alone,  1  shall 
wonder. 


XXXII. 

TO    HIS'  MOTHER. 

Florence,  Dec.  19,  N.  S.  1739. 

We  spent  twelve  days  at  Bologna,  chiefly 
(as  most  travellers  do)  in  seeing  sights  ;  for 
as  we  knew  no  mortal  there,  and  as  it  is  no 
easy  matter  to  get  admission  into  any  Italian 
house,  without  very  particular  recommenda- 
tions, we  could  see  no  company  but  in  pub- 
lic places  ;  and  there  are  none  in  that  city 
but  the  churches.  We  saw,  therefore, 
churches,  palaces,  and  pictures  from  morn- 
ing to  night  ;  and  the  15th  of  this  month  set 
out  for  Florence,  and  began  to  cross  the 
Apennine  mountains  ;  we  travelled  among 
and  upon  them  all  that  day,  and,  as  it  vv^as 
but  indifferent  weather,  were  commonly  in 
the  middle  of  thick  clouds,  that  utterly  de- 
prived us  of  a  siglit  of  their  beauties  :  For 
this  vast  chain  of  hills  has  its  beauties,  and 
all  the  valleys  are  cultivated  ;  even  the 
mountains  themselves  are   manv  of  them  so 


gray's  letters.  87 

within  a  little  of  their  very  tops.     They  are 
not  so    horrid   as  the    Alps,   though   pretty 
near  as  high  ;  and  the  whole  road  is  admira' 
bly  well  kept,  and  paved  throughout,  which 
is  a   length  of  fourscore   miles,  and   more.  - 
We  left  the  pope's  dominions,   and  lay   that 
night  in  those  of  the   grand  duke  of  Fioren- 
zuola,    a   paltry    little   town,   at  the  foot  of 
mount  Giogo,  which  is   the  highest  of  them 
all*    Next  morning  we  went  up  it  ;  the  post- 
house  is  upon  its  very  top,  and  usually  in- 
volved in  clouds,  or  half-buried  in  the  snow. 
Indeed    there   was   none  of  the  last  at  the 
time  we  were  there,   but  it  was  still   a  dis- 
mal  habitation.     The   descent  is    most  ex- 
cessively steep,  and  the  turnings  very  short 
and   frequent ;    however,   we   performed    it 
without  any    danger,   and    in  coming  down 
could   dimly    <liscover    Florence,    and    the 
beautiful  plain  about  it,  through  the  mists  ; 
but   enough  to   convince  us,  it   must  begone 
of  the  noblest  pro«;pects  upon  earth  in  sum- 
mer.    That  afternoon  we  got  thither  :  and 
Mr.  Mann,^  the  resident,  had  sent  his  ser- 
vant to  meet  us  at  the  gates,  and  conduct  us 
to    his    house.     He    is   the   best   and    most 
obliging   person   in  the  world.     The   next 

*  Afterwards  Sir  Horace  Mann. 


88  gray's  letters. 

night  we  were  introduced  at  the  prince  of 
Craon's  assembly  (he  has  the  chief  power 
here  in  the  grand  duke's  absence.) — The 
princess,  and  he,  were  extremely  civil  to 
the  name  of  AVaipole,  so  we  were  asked  to 
stay  supper,  which  is  as  much  as  to  say, 
you  may  come  and  sup  here  whenever  you 
please;  for  after  the  first  invitation  this  is 
always  understood.  We  have  also  been  at 
the  countess  Suarcz's,  a  favourite  of  the 
late  duke,  and  one  that  gives  the  first  move- 
ment to  every  thing  gay  that  is  going  for- 
ward here.  The  news  is  every  day  ex- 
pected from  Vienna  of  the  great  duchess's 
delivery;  if  it  be  a  boy,  here  will  be  all  sorts 
of  balls,  masquerades,  operas,  and  illumina- 
tions; if  not,  we  must  wait  for  the  carnival, 
when  all  those  things  come  of  course.  In 
the  mean  time,  it  is  impossible  to  want  en- 
tertainment; the  famous  gallery,  alone,  is  an 
amusement  for  months:  we  commonly  pass 
two  or  three  hours  every  morning  in  it, 
and  one  has  perfect  leisure  to  consider  all 
its  beauties.  Yon  know  it  contains  many 
hundred  antique  staiuos,  such  as  the  whole 
world  cannot  match,  besides  the  vast  collec- 
tion of  paintings,  medals,  and  precious  stones, 
such  as  no  other  prince  was  ever  master  of; 
in    Fhort,    all    that  the    rich    and    powerful 


gray's  letters.  89 

house  of  Medicis  has  in  so  many  years  2:ot 
together.*  And  besides  this  city  abounds 
with  so  many  palaces  and  churches,  that  you 
can  hardly  place  yourself  any  where  with- 
out having  some  fine  one  in  view,  or  at 
least  some  statue  or  fountain,  magnificently 
adorned;  these  crndoubtedly  are  far  more 
numerous  than  Genoa  can  pretend  to;  yet. 
in  its  general  appearance,  I  cannot  think 
that  Florence  equals  it  in  beauty.  Mr.  Wal- 
pole  is  just  come  from  being  presented  to 
the  electress  palatine  dowager;  she  is  a  sis- 
ter of  the  late  great  duke's;  a  stately  old 
lady,  that  never  goes  out  but  to  church,  and 
then  she  has  guards,  and  eight  horses  to  her 
coach.  She  received  him  with  much  cere- 
mony, standing  under  a  huge  black  canopy, 
and,  after  a  few  minutes'  talking,  she  assur- 
ed hiai  of  her  good  will,  and  dismissed  him: 
She  never  sees  any  body  but  thus  in  form; 
and  so  she  passes  her  life,  tpoor  woman!  *  *  * 

*  He  catalogfued  and  made  occasional  short  remarks  on  the  picr 
iures,  &:c.  which  he  saw  hei-Cj  as  weU  as  at  other  places,  many  of 
which  are  in  my  possession,  but  it  would  have  swelled  this  work 
too  much  if  I  had  inserted  them. 

t  Persons  of  vei7  hio;h  rank,  and  withal  Tery  good  scEse,  will 
only  fuel  the  pathos  of  t!iis  exdaroation. 


90  gray's  letters, 

XXXIIL 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

Florence,  Jan.  15,  1740. 

I  THINK  I  have  not  yet  told  }ou  how  we  left 
that  charming  place  Genoa;  how  we  crossed 
a  mountain  all  of  green  marble,  called 
Buchetto;  how  we  came  to  Tortona,  and 
waded  through  the  mud  to  come  to  Castel 
St.  Giovanni,  and  there  eat  mustard  and 
sugar  with  a  dish  of  crows'  gizzards  :  Se- 
condly, how  we  passed  the  famous  plains 

Qua  Trebie  glaucas  salices  intersccat  uiida, 

Arvaqvu  Romanis  nobilitata  inalis. 
Visus  adhuc  aninis  veteri  de  clade  rubere, 

Et  suspirantts  ducere  mcestus  aquas  ; 
Mauroruraque  ala,  et  nigi'ae  increbrescere  turmse, 

Et  pulsa  Ausonidum  lipa  soiiare  fuga. 

Nor,  thirdly,  how  we  passed  through  Pia- 
cenza,  Parma,  Modena,  entered  the  territo- 
ries of  the  pope;  stayed  twelve  days  at 
Bologna;  crossed  the  Apennines,  and  after- 
wards arrived  at  Florence.  Ts^one  of  these 
things  have  1  told  you,  nor  do  I  intend  to  tell 
you,  till  you  ask  me  some  questions  concern- 
ing them.     No  not  even  of  Florence  itself, 


gray's  letters.  91 

except  that  it  is  as  fine  as  possible,  and  has 
ever}'  thing  in  it  tbat  can  bless  the  eyes. 
But,  before  I  enter  into  particulars,  you  must 
make  your  peace  both  with  me  and  the 
Venus  de  Medicis,  who,  let  u>e  tell  you,  is 
highly  and  justly  offended  at  you  for  not  in- 
quiring, long  l3efore  this,  concerning  her 
symmetry  and  proportions.  *  *  * 


XXXIV. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

ELEGIA.* 

IRvgo  des'idiae  videov  tibi  crimine  dignus  ; 

Et  rnerito  :  victas  do  tibi  spoiiic  manus. 
Arguor  et  veteres  nimium  contemuere  Musas, 

Irata  et  nobis  est  Medicsea  Venus. 
Mene  iffitur  statuas  et  inania  saxa  vereri ! 

Stultule  !  marmorea  quid  raihi  cum  Venere  ? 
Hie  verae,  liic  vivae  Venei'es,  et  niille  per  urbem, 

Quaruin  nulla  queat  non  placuisse  Jovi. 
Cedite  Romanse  fonuosae,  et  eedite  Graiae, 

Sintq'ic  oiiiita  Helenae  nomeu  et  H  rmionae ! 
Et,  quascimque  lefert  setas  vttus,  Heroinae  : 

Unus  honor  nostris  jam  venit  Angliasin. 
Oh  quales  vultus,  OIi  quantum  nunien  ocellis  ! 

*  The  letter  which  accompanied  this  little  el'^gy  is  not  extauc 
Probably  it  was  only  enclosed  in  one  to  Mr.  Walpole. 


92  gray's  letters. 

I  nunc  et  Tuscas  improbe  confer  opes. 
Ne  tamen  haec  obtusa  niniis  prsecordia  credas, 

Neu  me  adeo  nulla  Pallade  progonitum  : 
Testoi-  Pieridumque  uinbi-as  et  fluraina  Pindi, 

Me  quoque  Calliopes  semper  amasse  chores  ; 
Et  dudum  Ausonias  urbes,  et  visere  Graias 

Cura  est,  ingenio  si  licet  ire  meo : 
Sive  est  Phidiacum  niarmor,  seu  Mentoris  aera, 

Seu  paries  Coo  nobilis  e  calamo  ; 
Nee  minus  artificum  magna  argumenta  recentum 

Romanique  decus  nominis  et  Veneti  : 
Qua  Furor  et  Mavors  et  ssevo  in  nianiiore  vultus, 

Quaque  et  formoso  mollior  sere  Venus  ; 
Quaque  loquax  spirat  fucus,  vivique  labores, 

Et  quicquid  calamo  dulcius  ausa  manus  : 
Hie  nemora,  et  sola  moerens  Melibceus  in  umbra, 

Lymphaque  muscoso  prosiliens  lapide  ; 
Illic  majus  opus,  faciesque  in  pariete  major 

Exsurgens,  Divum  et  numina  Ccelicolum. 
O  vos  felices,  quibus  hajc  cognoscere  fas  est, 

Et  tota  Italia,  qua  patet  usque,  frui .' 
Nulla  dies  vobis  eat  injucunda,  nee  usquam 

Noritis  quid  sit  tempora  amara  pati. 


XXXV. 


TO    HIS    MOTHER. 


Florence,  aiarch  19,  1740. 

The  pope^  is  at  last  dead,  and  we  are  to  set 
out  for  Rome  on  Monday  next.     The  con- 

*  Clement  the  Twkslfth. 


gray's  letters.  93 

clave  is  still  sitting  there,  and  likely  to  con- 
tinue so  soaie  timo  longer,  as  the  two  French 
cardinals  are  but  just  arrived,  and  the  Ger- 
man ones  are  still  expected.  It  agrees 
mighty  ill  with  those  that  remain  enclosed: 
Ottoboni  is  already  dead  of  an  apoplexy; 
Altieri  and  sever^  others  are  said  to  be 
dying,  or  very  bad:  yet  it  is  not  expected  to 
break  up  till  after  Easter.  We  shall  lie  at 
Sienna  the  first  night,  spend  a  day  there, 
and  in  two  more  get  to  Rome.  One  begins 
to  see  in  this  country  the  first  promises  of 
an  Italian  spring,  clear  unclouded  skies,  and 
warm  suns,  such  as  are  not  often  felt  in 
England;  yet,  for  your  sake,  I  hope  at  pre- 
sent you  have  your  proportion  of  them,  and 
that  ail  your  frosts,  and  snows,  and  short- 
breaths  are,  by  this  time,  utterly  vanished. 
i  have  nothing  new  or  particular  to  inform 
you  of;  and,  if  you  see  things  at  home  go  on 
much  in  their  old  course,  you  must  not  ima- 
gine them  more  various  abroad.  The  di- 
versions of  a  Florentine  Lent  are  composed 
of  a  sermon  in  the  morning,  full  of  hell  and 
the  devil;  a  dinner  at  noon,  full  of  fish  and 
meager  diet;  and,  in  the  evening,  what  is 
called  a  conversazione,  a  sort  of  assembly  at 
the  principal  people's  houses,  full  of  i  can- 
not tell  what:  Besides  this,  there  is  twice  a 
week  a  very  grand  concert.  *  *  * 


94  gray's  letters. 


XXXVI. 

TO  HIS  MOTHER. 

Rome,  April  2,  N,  S.  1740. 

This  is  the  third  day  since  we  came  to 
Rome,  but  the  first  hour  I  have  had  to  write 
to  you  in.  The  journe}?  from  Florence 
cost  us  four  da}'s,  one  of  which  was  spent  at 
Sienna,  an  agreeable,  clean,  old  city,  of  no 
great  magnificence  or  extent;  but  in  a  fine 
situation,  and  good  air.  What  it  has  most 
considerable  is  its  cathedral  a  huge  pile  of 
marble,  black  and  white  laid  alternately,  and 
laboured  with  a  Gothic  niceness  and  delicacy 
in  the  old-fashioned  way.  Within  too  are 
some  paintings  and  sculpture  of  considerable 
hands.  The  sight  of  this,  and  some  collec- 
tions that  were  showed  us  in  private  houses, 
were  a  sufficient  employment  for  the  little 
time  we  were  to  pass  there;  and  the  next 
morning  we  set  forward  on  our  journey: 
through  a  country  very  oddly  composed; 
for  some  miles  you  have  a  continual  scene  of 
little  mountains  cultivated  from  top  to  bot- 
tom with  rows  of  olive  trees,  or  else  elms, 
each  of  which  has  its  vine  twining  about  it, 
and   mixing   with   the   branches;    and  corn 


gray's  letters.  95 

sown  between  all  the  ranks.  This,  diversi- 
tiecl  with  numerous  small  houses  and  con- 
vents, makes  the  most  agreeable  pros})ect  in 
the  world:  But,  all  of  a  sudden,  it  alters  to 
black  barren  hills,  as  far  as  the  eye  cau 
reach,  that  seem  never  to  have  been  capa- 
ble of  culture,  and  are  as  uglj  as  useless. 
Such  is  the  country  for  some  time  before  one 
comes  to  Mount  Radicofani,  a  terrible  hi  tck 
hill,  on  the  top  of  which  we  were  to  lodge 
that  night.  It  is  very  hia;h,  and  difficult  of 
ascent;  and  at  the  foot  of  it  we  were  much 
embarrassed  by  the  fall  of  one  of  the  poor 
horses  that  drew  us.  This  accident  obliged 
another  chaise,  which  was  coming  down,  to 
stop  also;  and  out  of  it  peeped  a  figure  in  a 
red  cloak,  with  a  nandkerchief  tied  round  its 
head,  which,  by  its  voice  and  mien,  seemed 
a  fit  old  woman;  but  upon  its  getting  out, 
appeared  to  be  Senesino,  who  was  returning 
from  Naples  to  Sienna,  the  place  of  his 
birth  and  residence.  On  the  highest  part 
of  the  mountain  is  an  old  fortress,  and  near 
it  a  house  built  by  one  of  the  grand  dukes 
for  a  hunting-seat,  but  now  converted  into 
an  inn:  It  is  the  shell  of  a  large  fabric,  but 
such  an  inside,  such  chambers,  and  accom- 
modations, that  your  cellar  is  a  palace  in 
comparison;  and  your  cat  sups  and  lies  much 


96 

better  than  we  did;  for,  it  beinga  saint's  eve, 
there  was  nothing  but  eggs.  We  devoured 
our  meager  fare;  and,  after  stopping  up  the 
windows  with  the  quilts,  were  obliged  to  lie 
upon  the  straw  beds  in  our  clothes.  Such 
are  the  conveniences  in  a  road,  that  is,  as  it 
were,  the  great  thoroughfare  of  all  the  world. 
Just  on  the  otiier  side  of  this  mountain,  at 
Ponte  Centino,  one  enters  the  patrimony  of  the 
church;  a  most  delicious  country,  but  thinly 
inhabited.  That  night  brought  us  to  Viterbo, 
a  city  of  a  more  lively  appearance  than  any 
we  had  lately  met  with;  the  houses  have 
glass  windows,  which  is  not  very  usual  here; 
and  most  of  the  streets  are  terminated  by  a 
handsome  fountain.  Here  we  had  the 
pleasure  of  breaking  our  fast  on  the  leg  of 
an  old  hare  and  some  broiled  crows.  Next 
morning,  in  descending  Mount  Viterbo,  we 
lirst  discovered  (though  at  near  thirty  miles 
distance)  the  cupola  of  St.  Peter's,  and  a 
little  after  began  to  enter  on  an  old  Roman 
pavement,  with  now  and  then  a  ruined  tower, 
or  a  sepulchre  on  each  hand.  We  now  had 
a  clear  view  of  the  city,  though  not  to  the 
best  advantage,  as  coming  along  a  plain 
quite  upon  a  level  with  it;  however,  it  ap- 
peared very  vast,  and  surrounded  with  mag- 
nificent villas  and  gardens.     We   soon  after 


gray's  letters.  97 

crossed  the  Tiber,  a  river  that  ancient  Rome 
made  more  considerable  than  any  oierit  of 
its  own  could  have  done:  However,  it  is  not 
contemptibly  small,  but  a  good  handsome 
stream;  very  deep,  yet  somewhat  of  a  muddy 
complexion.  The  lirst  entrance  of  Rome  is 
prodigiously  striking.  It  is  by  a  noble  gate, 
designed  by  Michael  Angelo,  and  adorned 
with  statues;  this  brings  you  into  a  large 
square,  in  the  midst  of  which  is  a  vast  obe- 
lisk of  granite,  ani  in  front  you  have  at  one 
view  two  churches  of  a  handsome  architec- 
ture, and  so  much  ahke,  that  they  are  called 
the  Twins;  with  three  streets,  the  middle- 
most of  which  is  one  of  the  longest  in  Rome, 
As  high  as  my  expectation  was  raised,  I  con- 
fess, the  magnificence  of  this  city  infinitely 
surpasses  it.  You  cannot  pass  along  a 
street,  but  you  have  views  of  some  palace, 
or  church",  or  square,  or  fountain,  the  most 
picturesque  and  noble  one  can  imagine. 
We  have  not  yet  set  about  considering  its 
beauties,  ancient  and  modern,  with  atten- 
tion; but  have  already  taken  a  slight  tran- 
sient view  of  some  of  the  most  remarkable. 
St.  Peter's  I  saw  the  day  after  we  arrived, 
and  was  struck  dumb  with  wonder.  I  there 
saw  the  cardinal  D'Auvergne,  one  of  the 
French  ones,  who,  upon  coming  offhis  jour- 

VOL.    IV.  7 


98  grab's  letters^ 

ney,  immediately  repaired  hither  to  offer  up 
his  vows  at  the  high  altar,  and  went  directly 
into  the  conclave;  the  doors  of  which  we 
saw  opened  to  him,  and  all  the  other  im- 
mured cardinals  came  thither  to  receive  him. 
Upon  his  entrance  they  were  closed  again 
directly.  It  is  supposed  they  will  not  come 
to  an  agreement  about  a  pope  till  after 
Easter,  though  the  confinement  is  very  disa- 
greable.  1  have  hardly  philosophy  enough 
to  see  the  infinity  of  fine  things,  that  are 
here  daily  in  the  power  of  any  body  that 
has  money,  without  regretting  the  want  of  it; 
but  custom  has  the  power  of  making  things 
easy  to  one.  I  have  not  yet  seen  his  majes- 
ty of  Great  Britain,  &;c.  though  I  have  the 
two  boys  in  the  gardens  of  the  Villa  Bor- 
gese,  where  they  go  a-shooting  almost  every 
day;  it  was  at  a  distance,  indeed,  for  we  did 
not  choose  to  meet  them,  as  you  may  ima- 
gine. This  letter  (like  all  those  the  Eng- 
lish send,  or  receive)  will  pass  through  the 
hands  of  that  family,  before  it  comes  to  those 
it  was  intended  for.  They  do  it  more 
honour  than  it  deserves;  and  all  they  will 
learn  from  thence  will  be,  that  1  desire  you 
to  give  my  duty  to  my  father,  and  wherever 
else  it  is  due,  and  that  I  am,  &c. 


gray's  letters.  99 

XXXVII. 

TO    HIS    MOTHER. 

Rome,  April  15,   1740.     Good-Fi'iday. 

To-day  I  am  just  come  from  pa^'ing  my 
adoration  at  St.  Peter's  to  three  extraordi- 
nary relics  which  are  exposed  to  public 
view  only  on  these  two  days  in  the  whole 
year,  at  which  time  all  the  confraternities  in 
the  city  come  in  procession  to  see  them.  It 
was  something  extremely  novel  to  see  that 
vast  church,  and  the  most  magnificent  in  the 
world,  undoubtedly,  illuminated  (for  it  was 
night)  by  thousands  of  little  crystal  lamps, 
disposed  in  the  figure  of  a  huge  cross  at  the 
high  altar,  and  seeming  to  hang  alone  in  the 
air.  All  the  light  proceeded  from  this,  and 
had  the  most  singular  efi'ect  imaginable  as 
one  entered  the  great  door.  Soon  after 
came  one  after  another,  I  believe,  thirty 
processions,  all  dressed  in  linen  frocks,  and 
girt  with  a  cord,  their  heads  covered 
with  a  cowl  all  over,  only  two  holes  to  see 
through  left.  Some  of  them  were  all  black, 
others  red,  others  white,  others  party- 
coloured;  these  were  continually  coming 
and  going  with  their  tapers  and  crucifixes  be- 


100 

fore  them;  and  to  each  company,  as  they  ar- 
rived and  knelt  before  the  great  altar,  were 
shown  from  a  balcony,  at  a  great  height,  the 
three  wonders,  which  are,  you  must  know, 
the  head  of  the  spear  that  wounded  Christ; 
St.  Veronica's  handkercliief,  with  the  mira- 
culous impression  of  his  face  upon  it:  and  a 
piece  of  the  true  cross,  on  the  sight  of 
which  the  people  thump  their  breasts,  and 
kiss  the  pavement  with  vast  devotion.  The 
tragical  part  of  the  ceremony  is  half  a  dozen 
wretched  creatures,  who,  with  their  faces 
covered,  but  naked  to  the  waist,  are  in  a 
side-chapel  disciplining  themselves  with 
scourges  full  of  iron  prickles;  but  really  in 
earnest,  as  our  eyes  can  testify,  which  saw 
their  backs  and  arms  so  raw,  we  should  have 
taken  it  for  a  red  satin  doublet  torn,  and 
showing  the  skin  through,  had  we  not  been 
convinced  of  the  contrary  by  the  blood 
which  was  plentifully  sprinkled  about  them. 
It  is  late;  I  give  j/ou  joy  of  Porto-Bello, 
and  many  other  things,  which  I  hope  are 
all  true.  *  *  * 


gray's  letters.  101 


XXXVIII. 


TO    MR.    WEST. 


Tivoli,  May  20,  1740. 

This  day  being  in  the  palace  of  his  high- 
ness the  duke  of  Modena,  he  laid  his  most 
serene  commands  upon  me  to  write  to  Mr. 
West,  and  said  he  thought  it  for  his  gVory, 
that  I  should  draw  up  an  inventory  of  all 
his   most   serene    possessions   for    the    said 

West's  perusal. Imprimis,  a  house,  being 

in  circumference  a  quarter  of  a  mile,  two 
feet  and  an  inch;  the  said  house  containing 
the  following  particulars,  to  wit,  a  great 
room.  Item,  another  great  room;  item,  a 
bigger  room;  item,  another  room;  item,  a 
vast  room;  item,  a  sixth  of  the  same;  a  se- 
venth ditto;  an  eighth  as  before;  a  ninth  as 
abovesaid;  a  tenth  (See  No.  1.);  item,  ten 
more  such,  besides  twenty  besides,  which, 
not  to  be  too  particular,  we  shall  pass  over. 
The  said  rooms  contain  nine  chairs,  two 
tables,  five  stools,  and  a  cricket.  From 
whence  we  shall  proceed  to  the  garden,  con- 
taining two  millions  of  superfine  laurel  hedg- 
es, a  clump  of  cypress  trees,  and  half  the 
river  Teverone,  that  pisses  into  two  thoU' 


102  gray's  letters. 

sand  several  chamberpots.     Finis. Dame 

Nature  desired  me  to  put  in  a  list  of  her  lit- 
tle goods  and  chattels,  and,  as  they  were 
small,  to  be  very  minute  about  them.  She 
has  built  here  three  or  four  little  mountains, 
and  laid  them  out  in  an  irregular  semicircle; 
from  certain  others  behind,  at  a  greater  dis- 
tance, she  has  drawn  a  canal,  into  which  she 
has  put  a  little  river  of  hers,  called  Anio;  she 
has  cut  a  huge  cleft  between  the  two  inner- 
most of  her  four  hills,  and  there  she  has  left  it 
to  its  own  disposal;  which  she  has  no  soon- 
er done,  but,  like  a  heedless  chit,  it  tumbles 
headlong  down  a  declivity  fifty  feet  perpen- 
dicular, breaks  itself  all  to  shatters,  and  is 
converted  into  a  shower  of  rain,  where  the 
sun  forms  many  a  bow,  red,  green,  blue,  and 
yellow.  To  get  out  of  our  metaphors  with- 
out any  further  trouble,  it  is  the  most  noble 
sight  in  the  world.  The  weight  of  that  quan- 
tity of  waters,  and  the  force  they  fall  with, 
have  worn  the  rocks  they  throw  themselves 
among  into  a  thousand  irregular  crags,  and  to 
a  vast  depth.  In  this  channel  it  goes  boiling 
along  with  a  mighty  noise  till  it  comes  to 
another  steep,  where  you  see  it  a  second 
time  come  roaring  down  (but  first  you  must 
walk  two  miles  farther)  a  greater  height 
than  before,  but  not  with   that   quantity    of 


gray's  letters.  103 

waters;  for  by  this  time  it  has  divided  itself, 
being  crossed  and  opposed  by  the  rocks,  into 
four  several  streams,  each  of  which,  in  emu- 
lation of  the  great   one,    will  tumble  down 
too;  and  it  does  tumble  down,  but  not  from 
an  equally  elevated  place;  so  that  you  have 
at  one  view  all    these    cascades  intermixed 
with    gro\es  of  olive    and  little  woods,  the 
mountains  rising  behind  them,   and    on    the 
top  of  one  (that  which   forms  the  extremity 
of  one  of  the    half-circle's  horns)  is  seated 
the  town  itself.     At  the    very    extremity  of 
that  extremity,  on  the  brink  of  the  precipice, 
stands  the  Sybil's  temple,  the  remains  of  a 
little  rotunda,  surrounded    with  its  portico, 
above    half  of  whose   beautiful    Corinthian 
pillars  are  still  standing  and  entire;  all  this 
on  one   hand.       On  the   other,     the    open 
Campagna  of  Rome,  here  and  there  a  little 
castle  on  a  hillock,    and   the   city  itself  on 
the  very  brink  of  the    horizon,  indistinctly 
seen  (being  18  miles  off)  except  the  dome 
of  St.  Peter's;    which,   if  you    look   out    of 
your   window,   wherever   you    are,  I    sup- 
pose, you  can  see.     I  did  not  tell  you  that 
a  little    below  the  first  fall,  on  the    side    of 
the  rock,  and  hanging  over  that  torrent,  are 
little  ruins  which  they  show  you  for  Horace'« 
house,  a  curious  situation  to  obgerve  the 


104  gray's  letters. 

"  Pi'aeceps  Anio,  et  Tibumi  lucus,  et  uda 
Mobil  ibus  pomaria  rivis." 

Maecenas  did  not  care  for  such  a  noise,  it 
seems,  and  built  him  a  house  (which  they 
also  carry  one  to  see)  so  situated  that  it  sees 
nothing  at  all  ofthe  matter,  and  for  any  thing 
he  knew  there  might  be  no  such  river  in  the 
world.  Horace  had  another  house  on  the 
other  side  of  the  Teyerone,  opposite  to 
Msecenas's;  and  they  told  us  there  was  a 
bridge  of  communication,  by  which  "andava 
il  detto  Signor  per  trastuUarsi  coll  istesso 
Orazio."  In  coming  hither  we  crossed  the 
Aquae  Albulae,  a  vile  little  brook  that  stinks 
like  a  fury,  and  they  say  it  has  stunk  so  these 
thousand  years.  I  forgot  the  Piscina  of 
Quintilius  Varus,  where  he  used  to  keep 
certain  little  fishes.  This  is  very  entire, 
and  there  is  a  piece  of  the  aqueduct  that 
supplied  it  too;  in  the  garden  below  is  old 
Rome,  built  in  little,  just  as  it  was,  they  say. 
There  are  seven  temples  in  it,  and  no 
houses  at  all:   They  say  there  were  none. 

May  21. 

We  have  had  the  pleasure  of  going  twelve 
miles  out  of  our  way  to  Palestrina.  It  has 
rained  all  day  as  if  heaven  and  us  were  com- 
ing together.  See  my  honesty,  1  do  not  men- 


gray's  letters.  105 

tion  a  syllable  of  the  temple  of  Fortune,  be- 
cause I  really  did  not  see  it;  which,  I  think, 
is  pretty  well  for  an  old  traveller.  So  we 
returned  along  the  Via  Praenestina,  saw  the 
Lacus  Gabinus  and  Regillus,  wherej  you 
know.  Castor  and  Pollux  appeared  upon  a 
certain  occasion.  And  many  a  good  old 
tomb  we  left  on  each  hand,  and  many  an 
aqueduct, 

Dumb  are  whose  fountains,  and  their  channels  di-y. 

There  are,  indeed,  two  whole  modern  ones, 
works  of  popes,  that  run  about  thirty  miles 
a-piece  in  length;  one  of  them  conveys  still 
the  fnmous  Aqua  Virgo  to  Rome,  9nd  adds 
vast  beauty  to  the  prospect.  So  we  came  to 
Rome  again,  where  waited  for  us  a  splendi- 
dis^imo  regalo  of  letters:  in  one  of  which 
came  You,  with  your  huge  characters  and 
wide  intervals,  staring.  1  would  have  you 
to  know,  I  exp(^ct  you  should  take  a  hand- 
some crow-quill  when  you  write  to  me,  and 
not  leave  room  for  a  pin's  point  in  four  sides 
of  a  sheet  royal.  Do  you  but  find  matter,  I 
will  find  spectacles. 

I  have  more  time  than  I  thought,  and  I 
will  employ  it  in  telling  you  about  a  ball  that 
we  were  at  the  other  evening.     Figure  to 


106  gray's  letters. 

yourself  a  Roman  villa;  all  its  little  apart- 
ments thrown  open,  and  lighted  up  to  the  best 
advantage.  At  the  upper  epd  of  the  gallery, 
a  fine  concert,  in  which  La  Diamantina,  a 
famous  virtuosa,  played  on  the  violin  divine- 
ly, and  sung  angelically;  Giovannino  and 
Pasqualini  (great  names  in  musical  story) 
also  performed  miraculously.  On  each  side 
were  ranged  all  the  secular  grand  monde  of 
Rome,  the  ambassadors,  princesses,  and  all 
that.  Among  the  rest  II  Serenissimo  Pre- 
tendente  (as  the  Mantova  gazette  calls  him) 
displayed  his  rueful  length  of  person,  with 
his  two  young  ones,  and  all  his  ministry 
around  him.  "Poi  nacque  un  grazioso  ballo,'- 
where  the  world  danced,  and  1  sat  in  a  cor- 
ner regaling  myself  with  iced  fruits,  and 
other  pleasant  rinfrescatives. 


XXXIX. 

TO  MR.   WEST, 


Rome,  May,  1740. 


Mater  rosarum,  cui  tenerse  vigent 
Aurse  Favoiii.  cui  Venus  it  comes 
Lasciva,  Nynipharum  choreis 
Et  volucrur.  celebrata  cantu ! 
Die,  non  inertera  fallei-e  qua  diem 
Araat  sub  nrabra,  seu  sinit  auream 


gray's  letters.  107 

Doi'inire  plectrum,  seu  retentat 
Pierio  Zephyrinus*  antro 
Furore  duici  plenus,  et  immemor 
Reptantis  inter  frigora  Tusculi 
Umhrosa,  vel  colles  Aaiici 
Palladia:  superaiitis  Albse. 
Dilecta  Fauno,  et  capriptdum  chori's 
Pineta,  tester  vos,  Anio  minax 
Qusecunque  per  clivos  volutus 
Prsecipiti  tremefecit  amne, 
lUius  altuin  Tibur,  et  Msii\x 
Audisse  silvas  nomen  amabiles, 
Illius  et  gratas  Latinis 

Naiasin  iugeminasse  rupes : 
Nam  me  Latinte  Naiades  uvida 
Videre  ripa,  qua  niveas  levi 
Tam  saepe  lavit  i-ore  plumas, 
Duice  canens  Venusiims  ales; 
Mirura  !  caiienti  conticuit  nemuj, 
Sacrique  fontes,  et  retineut  adhuc 
(Sic  Musa  jussit)  saxa  molles 
Docta  modos,  veteresque  iauri. 
Mirare  nee  tu  me  citharaj  rudem 
Claudis  laborantem  numcris  ;  loca 
Amcena,  jucunduraque  ver  in- 
compositum  docuere  carmen : 
Haei'ent  sub  omni  nam  folio  nigi'i 
Phoebea  luci  (credite)  somnia, 
Ai-gutiusqae  et  lympha  et  aurae 
Nescio  quid  solito  loquuntur- 


•  He  entitled  this  cliarming  ode,  "  Ad  C.  Favonium  Zephyii- 
num,"  aud  writ  it  immediately  after  his  journey  to  Fi-escati  and 
the  cascades  of  Tivoli,  which  he  describes  in  the  preceding  letter. 


108  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

I  am  to-day  just  returned  from  Alba,  a 
good  deal  fatigued;  for  you  know  the  Appian 
is  somewhat  tiresome.*  We  dined  at  Pom- 
pey's;  he  indeed  was  gone  for  a  few  days  to 
his  Tusculan,  but,  by  the  care  of  his  villicus, 
we  made  an  admirable  meal.  We  had  the 
dugs  of  a  pregnant  sow,  a  peacock,  a  dish  of 
thrushes,  a  noble  scarus,  just  fresh  from  the 
Tyrrhene,  and  some  conchylia  of  the  lake 
with  garum  sauce:  for  my  part  I  never  eat 
better  at  Lucullus's  table.  We  drank  half  a 
dozen  cyathi  a-piece  of  ancient  Alban  to 
Pholoe's  health;  and,  after  bathing,  and  play- 
ing an  hour  at  ball,  we  mounted  our  essedum 
again,  and  proceeded  up  the  mount  to  the 
temple.  The  priests  there  entertained  us 
with  an  account  of  a  wonderful  shower  of 
birds'  eggs,  that  had  fallen  two  days  before, 
which  had  no  sooner  touched  the  ground, 
but  they  were  converted  into  gudgeons;  as 
also  that  the  night  past  a  dreadful  voice  had 
been  heard  out  of  the  adytum,  which  spoke 

*  However  whimsical  this  humour  may  appear  to  some  readers, 
I  chose  to  insert  it,  as  it  gives  me  an  opportunity  of  remarking 
that  Mr,  Gray  was  extremely  skilled  in  the  customs  of  the  ancien*^- 
Romans;  and  has  catalogued,  in  his  common-place  book,  thei 
various  eatables,  wines,  perfumes,  clothes,  medicines,  &c.  with 
great  pivcision,  i*eferring  under  every  article  to  passages  in  the 
poets  wA  historians  where  their  names  are  meutioBed. 


gray's  letters.  109 

Greek  during  a  full  half  hour,  but  nobody 
understood  it.  But  quitting  my  Kornanities, 
to  your  great  joy  and  mine,  let  me  teil  you, 
in  plain  English,  that  we  come  from  Albano. 
The  present  town  lies  within  the  enclosure 
of  Pompey's  villa  in  ruins.  The  Appian 
way  runs  through  it,  by  the  side  of  which,  a 
little  farther,  is  a  large  old  tomb,  with  tive 
pyramids  upon  it,  which  the  learned  suppose 
to  be  the  burying-place  of  the  family,  be- 
cause they  do  not  know  whose  it  can  be  else. 
But  the  vulgar  assure  you  it  is  the  sepulchre 
of  the  Curiatii,  and  by  that  name  (such  is 
their  power)  it  goes.  One  drives  to  Castel 
Gondolfo,  a  house  of  the  pope's,  situated  on 
the  top  of  one  of  the  Colhnette,  that  forms  a 
brim  to  the  basin,  commoiily  called  the  Al- 
ban  lake.  It  is  seven  miles  round;  and  di- 
rectly opposite  to  you,  on  the  other  side, 
rises  the  Mons  Albanus,  much  taller  than  the 
rest,  along  whose  side  are  still  discoverable 
(not  to  corhmon  eyes)  certain  little  ruins  of 
the  old  Alba  Longa.  They  had  need  be  very 
little,  as  having  been  nothing  but  ruins  ever 
since  the  days  of  Tullus  Hostilius.  On  its 
top  is  a  house  of  the  constable  Colonna's, 
where  stood  the  temple  of  Jupiter  Latialis. 
At  the  foot  of  the  hill  Gondolfo,  are  the  fa- 
mous outlets  of  the  lake,  built  with  hewn 


110  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

stone,  a  mile  and  a  half  under  ground.  Livj, 
you  know,  amply  informs  us  of  the  foolish  oc- 
casion of  this  expense,  and  gives  me  this  op- 
portunity of  displaying  all  my  erudition,  that 
1  may  appear  considerable  in  your  eyes. 
This  is  the  prospect  from  one  window  of  the 
palace.  From  another  you  have  the  whole 
campagna,  the  city,  Antium,  and  the  Tyr- 
rhene sea  (twelve  miles  distant)  so  distin- 
guishable, that  you  may  see  the  vessels  sail- 
ing upon  it.  All  this  is  charming.  Mr. 
Wnlpole  says,  our  memory  sees  more  than 
our  eyes  in  this  country,  which  is  extremely 
true;  smce,  for  realities,  Windsor,  or  Rich- 
mond Hill,  is  infinitely  preferable  to  Albano 
or  Fresrati.  i  am  now  at  home,  and  going 
to  the  window  to  tell  you  it  is  the  most  beau- 
tif'il  of  Italian  nights,  which,  in  truth,  are 
but  just  began,  (so  backward  has  the  spring 
been  here,  and  every  where  else,  they  say). 
There  is  a  moon !  there  are  stars  for  you  ! 
Do  not  you  hear  the  fountain  ?  Do  not  you 
smell  tiie  orange  flowers  ?  That  building 
yonder  is  the  convent  of  St.  Isidore;  and  that 
eminence,  with  the  cypress  trees  and  pines 
upon  it,  the  top  of  M.  Quirinal. — This  is  all 
true,  and  yet  my  prospect  is  not  two  hun- 
dred yards  in  length.  We  send  you  some 
Roman  inscriptions  to  entertain  you.     Th^ 


GRAV'S    LETTER^.  Ill 

iirst  two  are  modern,  transcribed  from  the 
Vatican  library  by  Mr.  Walpole. 

Pontifices  olim  quem  fundavere  priores, 

Prsecipua  Sixtus  perficit  arte  tholum  ;• 
Et  Sixti  tantum  se  gloria  tollit  in  aituni, 

Quantum  se  Sixti  uobile  tollit  opus  : 
Magnus  honos  magni  fundaraina  pouere  templi, 

Sed  finera  coeptis  ponere  major  houos . 

Saxa  agit  Amphion,  Thebana  ut  moenia  condat  : 

Sixtus  et  immensse  pondera  molis  agit.f 
Saxa  trahunt  ambo  loiige  diversa  :  sed  arte 

Htee  trahit  Amphion  ;   Sixtus  et  arte  trabit. 
At  tantum  exsuperat  Direaeum  Amphiona  Sixtus, 

Quantum  hie  exsuperat  csetera  saxa  lapis. 

Mine  is  ancient,  and  I  think  not  less  curi- 
ous. It  is  exactly  transcribed  from  a  sepul- 
chral marble  at  the  villa  Giustiniani.  I  put 
stops  to  it,  when  I  understand  it. 

DIs  Manibus 

Claudiae,  Pistes  *" 

Priiii   s  Conjugi 
^  Optumse,  Sanctae, 

Et  Piae,  Benemeritate« 

Non  sequos,  Parcae,  statu  istis  stamina  vitse, 
Tam  bene  compositos  potuistis  sede  tenere. 


*  Sixtus  V.  built  the  dome  of  St.  Peter**, 
t  He  raised  the  obelisk  in  the  great  area. 


112  GRAY^S    LETTERS. 

Amissa  est  coujux  cur  ego  et  ipse  moror  ? 

Si  •  bella  •  esse    mi    iste  '  mea    vivere    debuit  * 

Tristia  contigerunt  qui  amissa  conjugc  vivo. 

Nil  est  tain  miserum,  quam  totam  ptixlere  vitam. 

Nee  vita  enasci  dura  peregistis  crudelia  peasa.  sorores, 

Ruptaqne  deficiunt  in  primo  munere  fiisi. 

O  iiiiiiis  injustae  ter  donos  dare  niur.us  in  annos, 

Deceptus  •  gi-autus  ■  fatura  '  sic  •  pressit    egestas  • 

Dum  vitaiu  tulero,  Primus  Pistes  lugea  conjugium. 


XL. 


TO  HIS  MOTHER, 

Naples,  June  17,  1740. 

Our  journey  hither  was  through  the  most 
beautiful  part  of  the  finest  country  in  the 
world;  and  every  spot  of  it,  on  some  account 
or  other,  famous  for  these  three  thousand 
years  past.*  The  season  has  hitherto  been 
just  as  warm  as  one  would  wish  it;  no  un- 
wholesome airs,  or  violent  heats,  yet  heard 
of:  The  people  call  it  a  backward  year,  and 
are  in  pain  about  their  corn,  wine,  and  oil; 

•  Mr.  Gray  wrote  a  minute  description  of  every  thing  he  saw  in 
this  tour  from  Rome  to  Naples  ;  as  also  of  the  environs  of  Rome, 
Florence,  &c  But  as  these  papers  are  appaix^ntly  only  memoran- 
dums for  his  own  use,  I  do  not  tliink  it  iitcessai'y  to  print  them, 
although  they  abound  with  many  uncommon  remarks,  and  peili» 
nent  classical  quotations. 


GRAY*!?  LETTERS.  ]  13 

but  ^ve,  wlio  are  neither  corn,  wine,  nor  oil, 
liad  it  very  agreeable.  Our  road  was  through 
V'ellGtri,  Cisterna,  Terracina,  Capua,  and 
Aversa,  and  so  to  Naples.  The  minute  one 
I'^aves  his  holines^'s  dominions,  the  face  of 
things  begins  to  change  from  wide  unciiti- 
vated  plains  to  olive  groves  and  well  tilled 
fields  of  corn,  intermixed  with  ranks  of  elms, 
every  one  of  which  has  its  vine  twining  about 
it,  and  hanging  in  festoons  between  the  rows 
from  one  tree  to  another.  The  great  old 
fi::-trees,  the  oranges  in  full  bloom,  and  myr- 
tles in  every  hedge,  make  one  of  the  deli:^ht- 
fullest  scenes  you  can  conceive;  besides  that, 
the  roads  are  wide,  well-kept,  and  full  of 
passengers,  a  sight  I  have  not  beheld  this 
long  time.  My  wonder  still  increased  upon 
entering  the  city,  which,  I  think,  for  number 
of  people,  outdoes  both  Paris  and  London. 
The  streets  are  one  continued  market,  and 
thronged  with  populace  so  much  that  a  coach 
can  hardly  pass.  The  common  sort  are  a 
jolly  lively  kind  of  animals,  more  industrious 
thaa  Italians  usually  are  ;  they  work  till 
evening;  then  take  their  lute  or  guitar  (for 
they  all  pla^;)  and  walk  about  the  city,  or 
upon  the  sea-shore  with  it,  to  enjoy  the 
fresco.  One  sees  their  little  brown  children 
jumping  about  stark-naked,  and  the  bigger 

VOL.  IV.  8 


114  gray's  LETTERS. 

ones  dancing  with  castanets,  while  others 
play  on  the  cymbal  to  them,  lour  maps 
wiii  show  you  the  situation  of  Naples;  it  is 
on  the  most  lovely  bay  in  the  worUl,  and  one 
of  the  calmest  seas:  It  has  many  other  beau- 
ties besides  those  of  nature.  We  have  spent 
two  days  in  visiting  the  remarkable  places  in 
the  country  round  it,  such  as  the  bay  of 
Baiae,  and  its  remains  of  antiquity;  the  lake 
Avernus,  and  the  Solflitara,  Charon's  grotto, 
kc.  We  have  beea  in  the  Sibyl's  cave  and 
many  other  strange  holes  under-ground  (I 
only  name  them,  because  you  may  consult 
Sandys's  travels);  but  the  strangest  hole  I 
ever  was  in,  has  been  to-day,  at  a  place  call- 
ed Portici,  where  his  Sicilian  Majesty  has  a 
country-seat.  About  a  year  ago,  as  they 
were  digging,  they  discovered  some  parts  of 
ancient  buildings  above  thirty  feet  deep  in 
the  ground:  curiosity  led  them  on,  and  they 
have  been  digging  ever  since;  the  passage 
they  have  made,  with  all  its  turnings  and 
windings,  is  now  more  than  a  mile  long.  As 
you  walk,  you  see  parts  of  an  amphitheatre, 
many  houses  adorned  with  marble  columns, 
and  incrusted  with  the  same  ;  the  front  of  a 
temple,  several  arched  vaults  of  rooms  paint- 
ed in  fresco.  Some  pieces  of  painting  hav€ 
been  taken  out  from  hence,  finer  than  any 


gray's  LETTERS.  115 

thing  of  the  kind  before  discovered,  and 
with  these  the  king  has  adorned  his  palace  ; 
also  a  number  of  statues,  medals,  and  gems  ; 
and  more  are  dug  out  every  day.  This  is 
knoun  to  be  a  Roman  town,"  that  in  the 
emperior  Titus's  time  was  overwhelmed  by 
a  furious  eruption  of  Mount  Vesuvius,  which 
is  hard  by. — The  wood  and  beams  remain 
so  perfect  that  you  may  see  the  grain  ;  but 
burnt  to  a  coal,  and  dropping  into  dust  upon 
the  least  touch.  We  were  to-day  at  the 
f)ot  of  that  mountain,  which  at  present  only 
smokes  a  little,  where  we  saw  the  materials 
that  fed  the  stream  of  tire,  which  about  four 
years  since  ran  down  its  side.  We  have  but 
a  few  days  longer  to  stay  here  ;  too  little  in 
conscience  for  such  a  place.  *  *  * 


XLI. 

TO    HIS    FATHER. 

Flarenoe,  July  16, 1740. 

At  my  return  to  this  cit}',  the  day  before 
yesterday,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  finding 
yours  dated  June  the  9th.    The  period  ofour 

*  It  shoald  seem,  by  the  omission  of  its  name,  that  it  waj  net 
•hen  discovered  to  be  Herculaoeum. 


116  gray's  letters. 

voyages,  at  least  towards  the  South,  is  come, 
as  you  wish.  We  have  been  at  Naples, 
spent  nine  or  ten  days  there,  and  returned 
to  Rome,  where  finding  no  likelihood  of  a 
pope  yet  these  three  months,  and  quite 
wearied  with  the  formal  assemblies,  and  lit- 
tle society  of  that  great  city,  Mr.  Walpole 
determined  to  return  hither  to  spend  the 
summer,  where  he  imagines  he  shall  pass 
his  time  more  agreeably,  than  in  the  tedious 
expectation  of  what,  when  it  happens,  will 
only  be  a  great  show.  For  my  own  part,  I 
give  up  the  thoughts  of  all  tnat  with  but 
little  regret ;  but  the  city  itself  I  do  not  part 
with  so  easily,  which  alone  has  amusements 
for  whole  years.  However,  I  have  passed 
through  all  that  most  people  do,  both  an- 
cient and  modern  ;  what  that  is  you  may 
see.  better  than  1  can  tell  you,  in  a  thousand 
books.  The  conclave  we  left  in  greater 
uncertainty  than  ever  ;  the  more  than  or- 
dinary liberty  they  enjoy  there,  and  the 
unusual  coolness  of  the  season,  makes 
the  confinement  less  disagreeable  to  them 
than  common,  and,  consequentljs' maintains 
them  in  their  irresolution.  There  have 
been  very  high  words,  one  or  two  (it  is 
said)  have  come  even  to  blows  ;  two  more 
are  dead  within  this  last  month,  Cenci  and 


gray's  LETTERS.  117 

Portia  ;  the  latter  died  distracted  ;  and  we 
left  another  (Alfcieri)  at  the  extremity  :  yet 
nobody  dreams  of  an  election  till  the  latter 
end  of  September.  All  this  gives  great 
scandal  to  all  good  catholics,  and  every  body 
talks  very  freely  on  the  subject.  The  Pre- 
tender (whom  you  desire  an  account  of)  1 
have^  had  frequent  opportunities  of  seeing 
at  church,  at  the  corso,  and  other  jdaces  ; 
but  more  particularly,  and  that  for  a  wliole 
night,  at  a  great  ball  given  by  count  Patrizii 
to  the  prince  and  princess  Craon,  (who 
were  come  to  Rome  at  that  time,  that  he 
might  receive  from  the  hands  of  the  empe- 
ror's minister  there  the  order  of  the  golden 
fleece)  at  which  he  and  his  two  sons  were 
present.  They  are  good,  line  boys,  espe- 
cially the  younger,  who  has  the  more  spirit 
of  the  two,  and  both  danced  incessantly  all 
night  long.  For  him,  he  is  a  thin  ill-made 
man,  extremely  tall  and  awkward,  of  a  most 
unpromising  countenance,  a  good  deal  re- 
sembling king  James  the  second,  and  has  ex- 
tremely the  air  and  look  of  an  idiot,  particu- 
larly when  he  laughs  or  prays.  The  first 
he  does  not  often,  the  latter  continually. 
He  lives  private  enough  with  his  little  court 
about  him,  consisting  of  Lord  Dunbar,  who 
Kianages   every  thing,  and   two  or  three  of 


118  gray'^s  letters. 

the  Preston  Scotch  lords,  uho  would  be 
very  glad  to  make  their  peace  at  home. 

We  happened  to  be  at  Naples  on  Corpus 
Christi  day,  the  greatest  feast  in  the  year, 
so  had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  their  Sicilian 
majesties  to  advantage.  The  king  walked 
in  the  grand  procession,  and  the  queen 
(being  big  with  child)  sat  in  a  balcony.  He 
followed  the  host  to  the  church  of  St.  Clara, 
where  high  mass  was  celebrated  to  a  glori- 
ous concert  of  music.  They  are  as  ugly  a 
little  pair  as  one  can  see  :  she  a  pale  girl, 
marked  with  the  small  pox  ;  and  he  a  brown 
boy,  with  a  thin  face,  a  huge  nose,  and  as 
ungain  as  possible. 

We  are  settled  here  with  Mr.  Mann,  in  a 
charming  apartment  ;  the  river  Arno  runs 
under  our  windows,  which  we  can  tish  out 
of  The  sky  is  so  serene,  and  the  air  so 
temperate,  that  one  continues  in  the  open 
air  all  night  long  in  a  slight  night  gown, 
without  any  danger  ;  and  the  marble  bridge 
is  the  resort  of  every  body,  where  ,they 
hear  music,  eat  iced  fruits,  and  sup  by 
moonlight ;  though  as  yet  (the  season  being 
extremely  backward  every  where)  these 
amusements  are  not  begun.  Yon  see  we 
are  now  coming  northward  again,  though  in 
no  great  haste  ;   the  Venetian  and   Milanese 


gray's  letters.  119 

territories,  nnd  either  Germany  or  the  south 
of  France  (according  to  the  turn  the  war 
mny  take,)  are  all  that  remain  for  us,  that 
we  have  not  yet  seen  ;  as  to  Loretto,  and 
that  part  of  Italy,  we  have  given  over  all 
thoughts  of  it. 


XLII. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

Bond-street,  June  5, 1740. 

I  LIVED  at  the  Temple  till  i  was  sick  of  it  : 
I  have  just  left  it,  and  tind  myself  as  much  a 
lawyer  as  1  was  when  I  was  in  it.  It  is  cer- 
tain, at  least,  I  mav  study  the  law  here  as 
well  as  I  could  there.  My  being  in  cham- 
bers did  not  signify  to  me  a  pinch  of  snutf. 
They  tell  me  my  father  was  a  lawyer,  and, 
as  you  know,  emir»ent  in  the  profession  ; 
and  such  a  circumstance  muGi  be  of  advan- 
tage to  me.  M}'  uncle  too  makes  some  fig- 
ure in  Westminster-hail  ;  and  there's  anoth- 
er advantage  :  then  my  grandfather's  name 
would  get  rae  many  friends  Is  it  not 
strange  that  a  young  fellow,  that  might  enter 
the  world  with  so  many  advantages^  will  not 
know  hij  o'vn  interest  ?  kc.  &:c.     What  shall 


120  gray's  letters. 

I  say  in  answer  to  all  this  ?  For  money,  I 
neither  dote  upon  it  nor  despise  it  ;  it  is  a 
necessary  stuff  enough.  For  ambition,  I  do 
not  want  that  neither  ;  but  it  is  not  to  sit 
upon  a  bench.  In  short,  is  it  not  a  disa- 
greeable thing  to  force  one's  inclination, 
especially  when  one's  young  ?  not  to  men- 
tion that  one  ought  to  have  the  strength  of 
a  Hercules  to  go  through  our  common  law  ; 
which,  I  am  afraid,  I  have  not.  Well  !  but 
then,  say  they,  if  one  profession  does  not 
suit  you,  you  may  choose  another  more  to 
your  inclination.  Now  I  protest  I  do  not 
3'et  know  my  own  inclination,  and  I  believe, 
if  that  was  to  be  my  direction,  I  should 
never  fix  at  all.  There  is  no  going  by  a 
weather-cock.  I  could  say  much  more 
upon  this  subject ;  but  there  is  no  talkinu: 
tete-atete  cross  the  Alps.  Oh,  the  folly  of 
young  men,  that  never  know  their  own  in- 
terest !  they  never  grow  wise  till  they  are 
ruined  !  and  then  nobody  pities  them,  nor 
helps  tbem.  Dear  Gray  !  consider  me  in 
the  condition  of  one  that  has  lived  these  two 
years  without  any  person  that  he  can  speak 
freely  to.  I  know  it  is  very  seldom  that 
people  trouble  themselves  with  the  senti- 
ments of  those  they  converse  with  ;  so  they 
can    chat    about    trifles,    thev    never   care 


GRAV'S    LETTEF.S.  121 

whether  your  henrt  aches  or  no  Are  you 
one  of  these V.'  I  think  not.  But  what  right 
have  I  to  ask  you  this  question  ?  Have  we 
known  one  another  enough,  that  I  should 
expect  or  demand  sincerity  frooi  you  ?  Yes, 
Gray,  I  hope  we  liavo  ;  and  I  have  not  quite 
such  a  mean  opinion  of  myself,  as  to  think  I 
do  not  deserve  it  But,  signor,  is  it  not 
time  for  me  to  ask  something  about  your 
future  intentions  abroad  ?  Where  do  you 
])ropose  going  next  ?  An  in  Apuliam  ?  nam 
illo  si  adveneris,  tanquam  Ulysses,  cognos- 
ces tuorum  neminem.  Vale.  So  Cicero 
prophesies^  in  the  end  of  one  of  his  letters 
— and  there  1  end. 

Yours,  kc. 


XLllI. 

TO    MR,    WEST. 

Florence,  July  16,  1740. 

Yqu  do  yourself  and  me  justice,  in  imagin- 
ing that  you  merit,  and  that  I  am  capable 
of  sincerity.  I  have  not  a  thought,  or  even 
a  weakness,  I  desire  to  conceal  from  you  ; 
and  consequently  on  my  side  deserve  to  be 
treated  with   the   same  openness    of  heart. 


122  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

My  vanity  perhaps  might  make  me  more 
reserved  towards  you,  if  you  were  one  of 
the  heroic  race,  superior  to  all  human  fail- 
ings ;  but  as  mutual  wants  are  the  ties  of 
general  society,  so  are  mutual  weaknesses 
of  private  friendships,  supposing  them  nriix- 
ed  with  some  proportion  of  good  qualities  ; 
for  where  one  may  not  sometimes  biame, 
one  does  not  much  care  ever  to  praise. 
All  this  has  the  air  of  an  introduction  design- 
ed to  soften  a  very  harsh  reproof  that  is  to 
follow  ;  but  it  is  no  such  matter  :  I  only 
meant  to  ask,  Why  did  you  change  your 
lodjiing  ?  Was  the  air  bad,  or  the  situation 
melancholy  ?  If  so,  you  are  quite  in  the 
right.  Only,  is  it  not  putting  yourself  a  lit- 
tle out  of  the  way  of  a  people,  with  whom 
it  seems  necessary  to  keep  up  some  sort  of 
intercourse  and  conversation,  though  but  lit- 
tle for  your  pleasure  or  entertainment  (yet 
there  are,  I  believe,  such  among  them  as 
might  give  you  both,)  as  least  for  your  in- 
formation in  that  study,  which,  when.  1  left 
you,  you  thought  of  applying  to?  for  that 
there  is  a  certain  study  necessary  to  be 
followed,  if  we  mean  to  })e  of  any  use  in 
the  world,  1  take  for  granted;  disagreeable 
enough  (as  most  necessities  are,)  but,  I  am 
afraid,  unavoidable.      Into  how  many  bran- 


gray's  letters.  123 

ches  the  studies  are  diviJcd  in  England, 
every  body  know^;  and  between  that  which 
you  and  I  had  pitcJ^ied  upon,  and  the  other 
two,  it  was  impossible  to  balance  long.  Ex- 
amples show  one  that  it  is  not  absolutely  ne- 
cessary to  be  ablockjiead  to  succeed  in  this 
profession.  The  labour  is  long,  and  the 
elements  dry  and  unentertaiuing;  nor  was 
ever  any  body  (especially  those  that  after- 
wards mnd3  a  tjgure  in  it)  amused,  or  even 
not  disgusted  in  the  bt^ginning;  yet,  upon  a 
further  acquaintance,  there  is  surely  matter 
for  curiosity  and  reflection.  It  is  strange  if, 
among  all  that  huge  mass  of  words,  there 
be  not  somewhat  intermixed  for  thought. 
Laws  have  been  the  result  of  long  delibera- 
tion, and  that  not  of  dull  men,  but  the  con- 
trary; and  have  so  close  a  connexion  with 
history,  naj',  with  pailosoph}'  itself,  that  they 
must  partake  a  little  of  what  they  are  re- 
lated to  so  nearly.  Besides,  tell  me,  have 
you  ever  made  the  attempt?  Was  not  you 
frighted  merely  with  the  distant  prospect? 
Had  the  Gotliic  character  and  bnlkiness  of 
those  volumes  (a  teiith  part  of  which  per- 
haps it  wi'll  bf  no  firther  necessary  to  con- 
sult, than  as  one  does  a  dictionary)  no  ill 
eftect  upon  your  eye?  Are  you  sure,  if  Coke 
had  been  printed   by  Elzevir,  and   bound  io 


124  gjiay's  letters. 

twenty  neat  pocket  volumes,  instead  of  one 
folio,  Yon  should  never  have  taken  him  np 
for  an  hour,  as  you  would  a  Tully,  or  drank 
your  tea  over  him?  I  know  how  great  an 
obstacle  ill  spirits  are  to  resolution.  Do  you 
really  think,  if  you  rid  ten  miles  every 
morning,  in  a  week's  time  you  should  not 
entertain  much  stronger  hopes  of  the  chan- 
cellorship, and  think  it  a  much  more  proba- 
ble thing  than  you  do  at  present?  The 
advantages  you  mention  are  not  nothing; 
our  inclinations  are  more  than  we  imagine 
in  our  own  power;  reason  and  resolution  de- 
termine them,  and  support  under  many  diffi- 
culties. To  me  there  hardly  appears  to  bf  any 
medium  between  a  public  life  and  a  private 
one;  he  who  prefers  the  tirst,  must  put  him- 
self in  a  way  of  being  serviceable  to  the  rest 
of  mankind,  if  he  has  a  mind  to  be  of  any  con- 
sequence among  them:  nay,  he  must  not 
refuse  being  in  a  certain  degree  even  de- 
pendent upon  some  men  who  already  are  so. 
If  he  has  the  good  fortune  to  light  on  such 
as  will  make  no  ill  use  of  his  humility, 
there  is  no  shame  in  this:  if  not,  bis  ambi- 
tion ought  to  give  place  to  a  reasonable  pride, 
and  he  should  apply  to  the  cultivation  of  his 
own  mind  those  abilities  which  he  has  not 
been  permitted   to  use  for  others'  service. 


gray's  letters.  125 

Such  a  private  hnppiness  (supposing  a  small 
competence  of  fortune)  is  almost  always  in 
every  one's  power,  and  the  proper  enjoy- 
ment of  age,  as  the  other  is  the  employment 
of  youth.  You  are  yet  young,  have  some 
advantaijes  and  opportunities,  and  an  un- 
doubted capacity,  which  you  have  never  yet 
put  to  the  trial.  Set  apart  a  few  hours,  see 
how  the  tiist  year  will  agr«?e  with  you,  at 
the  end  of  it  you  are  still  the  master;  if 
you  change  your  mind,  you  will  only  have 
got  the  knowledge  of  a  little  somewhat 
that  can  do  no  hurt,  or  ♦ive  you  cause  of  re- 
pentance. If  your  inclination  he  not  fixed 
upon  any  thing  else,  it  is  a  symptom  that 
you  are  not  absolutely  determined  against 
this,  and  warns  you  not  to  mistake  mere 
indolence  for  inability.  I  am  sensible  there 
is  nothing  stronger  against  what  I  would 
persuade  you  to,  than  my  own  practice; 
which  may  make  you  imagine  I  think  not 
as  f  speak.  Alas!  it  is  not  so;  but  I  do  not 
act  what  !  think,  and  I  had  rather  be  the 
object  of  your  pity  than  that  you  should 
be  that  of  mine;  and,  be  assured,  the  ad- 
vantage I  may  receive  from  it,  does  not  dimi- 
nish my  concern  in  hearing  you  want  some- 
body to  converse  with  freely,  whose  advice 
might  be  of  more  weight,  and  always  at  hand. 


126  gray's  letters. 

We  have  some  time  since  come  to  (he 
southern  period  of  our  voyages;  we  spent 
about  nine  days  at  Naples.  It  is  the  largest 
and  most  populous  city,  as  its  environs  are 
the  most  deliciously  fertile  country,  of  all 
Italy  We  sailed  in  the  bay  of  Bais,  sweated 
in  the  Solfatara,  and  died  in  the  grotto  del 
Cane,  as  all  strangers  do;  saw  the  Corpus 
Christi  procession,  and  the  king  and  the 
queen,  and  the  city  underground  (which  is 
a  wonder  I  reserve  to  tell  you  of  another 
time)  and  so  returned  to  Rome  for  another 
fortnight;  left  it  (left  Rome!)  and  came 
hither  for  the  summer.  You  have  seen  an 
Epistle*  to  Mr.  Ashton,  that  seems  to  me 
full  of  spirit  and  thought,  and  a  good  deal  of 
poetic  fire.  I  would  know  your  opinion. 
Now  I  talk  of  verses,  Mr.  Walpole  and  1 
have  frequently  wondered  you  should  never 
mention  a  certain  imitation  of  Spenser,  pub- 
lished last  year  by  a  namesake!  of  yours, 
with  which  we  are  all  enraptured  and  en- 
mar  vailed. 

*  The  reader  will  find  this  among  Mr.   Walpole's    Fugitive 
Piecei. 
t ''  On  the  abuse  of  Travelling,**  by  Gilbot  West. 


gray's  letters.  127 

XLIV. 

TO    KIS    MOTHER. 

Florence,  Aug.  21,  N.  S.  1740. 

It  is  some  time  since  I  hnve  had  the  pleasure 
of  writing  to  you,  having  been  upon  a  little 
excursion  cross  the  mountains  to  Bologna. 
We  set  out  from  hence  at  sunset,  passed  the 
Apennines  by  moonlight,  travelling  inces- 
santly till  we  came  to  Bologna  at  four  in  the 
afternoon  next  day.  There  we  spent  a 
week  agreeably  enough,  and  returned  as  we 
came.  The  day  before  yesterday  arrived 
the  news  of  a  pope:  and  I  have  the  mortifi- 
cation of  being  within  four  days'  journey  of 
Rome,  and  not  seeing  his  coronation,  the 
heats  being  violent,  and  the  infectious  air 
now  at  its  height.  We  had  an  instance, 
the  other  day,  that  it  is  not  only  fancy. 
Two  country  fellows,  strong  men,  and  used 
to  the  country  about  Rome,  having  occasion 
to  come  from  thence  hither,  and  travelling 
on  foot,  as  common  with  them,  one  died  sud- 
denly on  the  road;  the  other  got  hither,  but 
extremely  weak,  and  in  a  manner  stupid;  he 
was  carried  to  the  hospital,  but  died  in  two 
days.    So,  between  fear  and  laziness,  we  re- 


128  gray's  letters. 

main  here,  and  must  be  satisfied  with  the  ac- 
counts other  people  give  us  of  the  matter. 
The  new  pope  is  called  Benedict  XIV.  being 
created  cardinal  by  Benedict  XIII  the  last 
pope  but  one.  His  name  is  Lambertini,  a 
noble  Bolognese,  and  archbishop  of  that  city. 
When  I  was  fir^^t  there,  I  remember  to  have 
jseen  him  two  or  three  times;  he  is  a  short, 
fat  man,  about  sixty-five  years  of  age,  of  a 
hearty,  merry  countenance,  and  likely  to 
live  some  years.  He  bears  a  good  character 
for  generosity,  affability,  and  olber  virt'ies; 
and,  they  say,  wants  neither  l^r.owledge  nor 
capacity.  The  worst  side  of  him  is,  that  he 
has  a  nephew  or  two;  besides  a  certain 
young  favourite,  called  Melara,  who  is  said 
to  have  had,  for  some  time,  the  arbitrary 
(Jisposal  of  his  purse  and  family.  He  is  re- 
ported to  have  made  a  little  speech  to  the 
cardinals  in  the  conclave,  while  they  were 
undetermined  about  an  election,  as  follows: 
"Most  eminent  lords,  here  are  three  Bolog- 
nese of  different  characters,  but  all  equally 
proper  for  the  popedom.  If  it  be  your 
pleasures  to  pitch  upon  a  saint,  there  is  car- 
dinal Gotti;  if  upon  a  politician,  there  is  Al- 
drovandi;  if  upon  a  booby,  here  am  I." 
The  Italian  is  much  more  expressive,  and, 
indeed,  not  to  be  translated;  wherefore,  if 


gray's  letters.  129 

you  meet  with  any  body  that  understands  it, 
you  may  show  thera  what  he  Sciid  in  the  lan- 
guage he  ppoke  it.  "Emin*^™^  ^'gt'*'  Ci 
siame  tre,  diversi  si,  ma  tutti  idonei  al  Pa- 
pato.  Se  vi  piace  un  Santo,  c' e  I'Gotti;  se 
volete  una  testa  scaltra,  e  Folitica,  c'  e  TAl- 
drovande;  se  un  CogUone,  ecco  mil"  Car- 
dinal Coscia  is  restored  to  his  liberty,  and,  it 
is  said,  will  be  to  all  his  benetices.  Corsini 
(the  late  pope's  nephew)  as  he  has  had  no 
hand  in  this  election,  it  is  hoped,  will  be 
called  to  account  for  all  his  villanous  prac- 
tices. The  Pretender,  they  say,  has  resign- 
ed all  his  pretensions  to  his  eldest  boy,  and 
will  accept  of  the  grand  chancellorship,  which 
is  thirty  thousand  crowns  a-year;  the  pension 
he  has  at  present  is  only  twenty  thousand. 
I  do  not  affirm  the  truth  of  this  li\st  article; 
because,  if  he  does,  it  is  necessary  he 
should  take  the  ecclesiastical  habit,  and  it 
will  sound  mighty  odd  to  be  called  his  ma- 
jesty the  chancellor. — So  ends  my  gazette. 

VOL.    IV,  9 


130  gray's  letters. 


XLV. 


TO    MR.    WEST. 


Florence,  Sept.  25,  N.  S.  1740. 

What  I  send  you  now,  hs  long  as  it  is,  is  bat  a 
piece  of  a  poem.  It  has  the  advantage  of 
all  fragments,  to  need  neither  introdiiciion 
nor  conclusion:  besides,  if  you  do  not  like 
it,  it  is  but  imagining  that  which  went  before, 
and  came  after,  to  be  intinitely  better.  Look 
in  Sandys's  Travels  for  the  History  of  Monte 
Barbaro,  and  Monte  Nuovo.* 


*  To  save  the  reader  trouble,  I  here  insert  the  passage  referred 
to:  "  West  «jf  Cicero's  Villa  staiiils  the  eminent  Gaurus,  a  «toHy 
and  desolate  mountain,  in  which  there  are  divers  obscure  caverns, 
choaked  almost  with  earth,  where  many  have  consumed  much 
fruitless  industry  in  searching  for  treasure.  The  famous  Lucrine 
lake  extended  formerly  from  Avernus  to  the  aforesaid  Gaurus  > 
but  is  now  no  other  than  a  little  sedgy  plash,  choaked  up  by  the 
hon-ible  find  astonishing  eruption  of  the  new  mountain  ;  whereof, 
as  oft  as  1  think.  I  am  easy  to  credit  whatsoever  is  wonderful. 
For  who  here  knows  not,  or  who  elsewhere  will  believe,  that  a 
mountain  "hould  arise  (,»  rtly  out  of  a  !?.ke  and  partly  out  of  the 
sea,)  •:.■■  ono  day  aiul  a  night,  unto  such  a  height  as  to  contend  in 
altitude  with  the  high  iiLOuntans  adjoining  ?  In  the  year  of  our 
Lord  1538,  on  tbt  39lh  of  -'eptembcr,  when  for  certain  days  fore- 
going the  country  hei-eabout  was  so  vexed  with  perpetual  earth- 


gray's  letters.  131 

Nee  procul  infelix  se  tollit  in  sethera  Gaurus, 
Prospicieiis  vitreum  lugen;i  vertice  poiitum  ; 
Tristior  ille  diu,  et  veteri  desuetus  oliva 
Gaums,  pampineseque  eheu  jam  nescius  umbrae  ; 
Horrendi  tam  saevi  premit  vicinla  montis, 
Attoiiitumque  urget  latus,  exuritque  feventem. 
Nam  fama  est  olira   media  dum  lura  silebant 
Nocte.  De    victa  et  niolli  pevfus    quiete, 
'Infremuisse  sequor  ponti,  auditamqiie  per  omnes 
Late  tellurem  siirdum  imnuigire  cavernas  : 
Quo  soiiitu  neraora  alta  trenmnt ;  tivmit  excita  tuto 
Parthenopaea  sism,  flaramantisque  oia  Vesevi. 
At  suhito  se  aperire  solum,  vastosque  reccssus 
Pandei-e  stib  pedihus,  iiigi-aque  voragiiie  fauces  ; 
Turn  piceas  cinerum  gloiiierare  sub  Kthere  nubes 

quakes,  as  no  one  house  was  left  so  entire  as  not  to  expect  an  im- 
mediate uin ;  after  that  the  sea  had  retired  two  hundred  paces 
from  the  shore  (Itavijig  abundance  of  fish,  and  sjjrings  of  fresh 
Avater  rising  in  the  bottom,)  this  mountain  visibly  ascended  about 
the  second  hour  of  the  night,  with  an  hideous  roaring,  hon-ibly 
vomiting  stones  and  such  store  of  ciaders  as  overwhelmed  all  tlie 
buildings  thereabout,  and  the  salubrious  baths  of  Tripergula,  for  so 
many  ages  celebrated  ;  consumed  the  A-ines  to  ashes,  killing  birds 
and  Ix-asts ;  the  fearful  inhabitants  of  Puzzol  flying  througli  the 
dark  with  their  wives  and  children,  naked  defiled,  crying  out.  and 
detesting  their  calamities.  Manifold  mischiefs  have  they  suffered 
by  the  barbarous,  yet  none  like  this  which  Nature  inflicted.  This 
new  mouiitaii),  when  newly  raised,  had  a  number  of  issues  ;  at 
some  of  them  smoking  and  sometimes  flaming  ;  at  others  disgorg- 
ing rivulets  <  f  hot  wattrs;  keeping  within  a  terrible  rumbling ; 
and  many  miserably  perished  that  ventured  to  descend  into  the 
hollowness  a1)ove.  But  that  hollow  on  the  top  is  at  present  an 
orchai'd,  and  the  mouniajn  throughout  is  bereft  of  its  teiTOis." 

Sanclys't  Travels,  book  iv.  page  275,  277,  and  278, 


132  GRAY'S  LETTERS. 

Vorticibus  rapidis,  ardentique  itnbre  procellam* 
Praecipites  fugere  ferae,  perqne  avia  longe 
Sil varum  fugit  pastor,  juga  per  deseita, 
Ah,  miser !  inci-epitans  ssepe  alta  roce  per  uiiibram 
Neqiiidquam  natos,  creditqiie  audire  sequentes. 
Atque  ille  excelso  rupis  de  vertice  solus 
Rtspectaiis  notrisque  donios,  et  dulcia  regna, 
Nil  usquam  videt  infelix  prater  mave  tiisti 
Lumine  percussum,  et  pallentes  sulphure  campos, 
Fumumque,  flammasque,  rotataque  turbine  saxa. 

Qiiin  ubi  detomrit  fmgor,  et  lux  rtddita  ccelo  ; 
Moestos  confluere  agricolas,  passuque  vidtres 
Taiidcm  iteruin  tiniido  deserta  requirere  tecta : 
Speraiites,  si  forte  oculis,  si  forte  darontur 
Uxoruiii  cineres,  miserorumve  ossa  parentum, 
(Tenuia,  sed  tauti  saltim  solatia  lucuis) 
Una  colJigere  et  jiista  compoiiere  iu  uma. 
Uxorum  nusquani  cineres,  iiusquam  ossa  parentum 
(Spem  miseram  !)  assuetosve  Lai'es,  aut  rura  videbuut. 
Qia,)pe  ubi  plani'dcs  campi  diffusa  jacebat ; 
Mons  novus :  ille  supereiliuni.  frontemque  favilla 
Iiicanum  ostentans,  anibustis  cautibus,  aequor 
Subjectum,  stragemque  suam,  nlo^sta  arva,  minaci 
Despicit  imperio,  solcque  in  littore  regnat. 

Hinc  iufame  loci  nomen,  multosque  per  annos 
Imnienjor  antiquse  iaudis,  nescire  Ictbores 
■Vomeris.  et  nuUo  tellus  reviirsceit  cultu. 
Non  aviUiB  colles,  non  carmine  matutino 
Pjtstorum  resonare  ;  adeo  undique  dirus  habebat 
lutornies  late  liou-or  agi'os  saltusque  vacaiites. 
Saipius  et  loage  tfitorquens  navita  proram, 
Mo.  straliat  oigito  lictus,  sfeva'que  itvolvens 
Fmier.i  narrft'jftt  novtis,  vtteremque  ruiuam. 

M  'Mtis  adin.c  facies  manet  hirta  atque  aspera  saxis ; 
Sed  fuim-  exstinvtus  janidudum,  et  tlamtua  quievit, 


GRAY  3  LETTERS.  l.^O 

Quse  nascent!  aderat ;  seu  forte  bituminis  atri 
Defluxene  oiim  rivi,  atque  eiTceta  lacuna 
Pabula  sufficere  ardori   vivesque  recusat ; 
Sive  in  visceribiis  ineditaiis  iuceudia  jam  nunc 
(Horrendum  !)  arcanis  glomerat  gemi  esse  futiirse 
Exitio.  sparsos  tacitusque  recolligit  ignes. 

Raro  per  cUtos  baud  secius  ordine  vidi 
Canescenteni  oleain  :  longum  post  tempus  aniicti 
Yite  virent  tiirauli ;  patriamque  revisere  gaudens 
Baccbus  in  assuetis  teneruni  caput  exserit  ax-vis 
\ix.  tandeiT),  iiifidoque  audet  se  credere  coelo. 

There  was  a  certain  little  ode*  set  out 
from  Rome,  in  a  letter  of  recommendation  to 
yon,  but  possibly  fell  into  the  enemies' 
hands,  for  1  never  heard  of  its  arrival.  It 
is  a  little  impertinent  to  inquire  after  its 
welfare:  but  you,  that  are  a  father,  will  ex- 
cuse a  parent's  foolish  fondness.  Last  post 
I  received  a  very  diminutive  letter:  it  made 
excuses  for  its  unentertainingness,  very  lit- 
tle to  the  purpose;  since  it  assured  me, 
very  strongly,  of  your  esteem,  which  is  to 
me  the  thing;  all  the  rest  appear  but  as  the 
petits  agremens,  the  garnishing  of  the  dish. 
P.  Bougeant,  in  his  Langage  des  Betes, 
fancies  that  your  birds,  who  continually  re- 
peat the  same  note,  say  only  in  plain  terms, 
"  Je  vous  aime,   raa  chere;   ma  chere,  je 

*  The  Alcaic  ode  inserted  in  Letter  XXXtK. 


134  gray's  letters. 

vous  aime;  and  that  those  of  greater  genius 
indeed,  with  various  trills,  run  divisions  up- 
on the  subject;  but  that  the  fond,  from 
whence  it  all  proceeds,  is  "toujours  je  vous 
aime."  Now  _y'ou  may,  as  you  find  yourself 
dull  or  in  humour,  either  take  me  for  a 
chaffinch  or  nightingale;  sing  your  plain 
song,  or  show  your  skill  in  music,  but  in  the 
bottom,  let  there  be,  toujours,  toujours  de 
Tamitie. 

As  to  what  you  call  my  serious  letter;  be 
assured,  that  your  future  state  is  to  me  en- 
tirely indifterent.  Do  not  be  angry,  but 
hear  me;  I  mean  with  respect  to  myself. 
For  whether  you  be  at  the  lop  of  fame,  or 
entirely  unknown  to  mmkind;  at  the  coun- 
cil-table, or  at  Dick's  coifee-house;  sick  and 
simple,  or  well  and  wise;  whatever  altera- 
tion mere  accident  works  in  you  ('supposing 
it  utterly  impossible  for  it  to  make  any 
change  in  your  sincerity  and  honesty,  since 
these  are  conditions  sine  qua  non,)  1  do  not 
see  any  likelihood  of  ray  not  being  yours 
ever. 


135 
XLVI. 


TO    HIS    FATHER. 


Florence,  Oct:  9.  1740. 

The  beginning  of  next  spring  i.s  tbe  rnuc-  de- 
termined for  our  return  at  furthest;  possi- 
blj  it  may  be  before  that  time.  How  the 
interim  will  be  employed,  or  wh;it  route  we 
shall  take,  is  not  so  certain.  If  we  remain 
friends  with  France,  upon  leaving  this  coun- 
try we  shall  cross  over  to  Venice,  and  so 
return  through  the  cities  north  of  the  Po  to 
Genoa;  from  thence  take  a  felucca  to  M-av- 
seilles,  and  come  back  through  Paris.  If 
the  contrary  fall  out,  which  seems  not  un- 
likely, we  must  take  the  Milanese,  and  those 
parts  of  Italy,  in^  our  way  to  Venice;  from 
vhence  must  pass  through  the  Tyrol  into 
Germany,  and  come  home  by  the  Low-Coun- 
tries. As  for  Florence,  it  has  been  gajer 
than  ordinary  for  this  last  month,  being  one 
round  of  balls  and  entortai undents,  occasion- 
cd  by  the  arrival  of  a  great  Milanese  lady; 
for  the  only  thing  the  Italians  shine  in,  is 
their  reception  of  strangers.  At  such  times 
every  thing  is  niRgnifcence:  the  more  re- 
markable, as  in  their  ordinarv  course  of  life 


136  gray's  letters. 

they  are  parsimonious,  even  to  a  degree  of 
Hastiness.  I  saw  in  one  of  the  vastest  pa- 
laces in  Rome,  that  of  prince  Pamfiiio,  the 
apartment  which  he  him-elf  inhabited,  a  bed 
that  most  servants  in  England  would  disdain 
to  lie  in,  and  furniture  much  like  that  of  a 
soph  at  Cambridge,  for  convenience  and 
neatness.  This  man  is  worth  SO, 000/.  sterl- 
ing a  year.  As  for  eating,  there  are  not  two 
cardinals  in  Rome  that  allow  more  than  six 
paoli,  which  is  three  shillings  a  day,  for  the 
expense  of  their  table:  and  you  may  imagine 
they  are  still  less  extravagant  here  than 
there.  But  when  they  receive  a  visit  from 
any  friend,  their  houses  and  persons  are  set 
out  to  the  greatest  advantage,  and  appear  in 
all  their  splendour;  it  is,  indeed,  from  a 
motive  of  vanity,  and  with  the  hopes  of  hav- 
ing it  repaid  them  with  interest,  whenever 
they  have  occasion  to  return  the  visit.  I 
call  visits  going  from  one  city  of  Italy  to 
another;  for  it  is  not  so  among  acquaintance 
of  the  same  place  on  common  occasions. 
The  new  pope  has  retrenched  the  charges 
of  his  own  table  to  a  sequin  (ten  '^hillings)  a 
meal.  The  applause  which  all  he  says  and 
does  meet  with,  is  enough  to  encourage  him 
really  to  deserve  fame.  They  say  he  is  an 
uble  and  honest  man;  he  is  reckoned  a  wit 


gray's  lktters.  137 

too.  The  other  day,  when  the  senator  of 
Rome  came  to  wait  upon  him,  at  the  first 
compliments  he  made  him,  the  pope  pulled 
off  his  cap.  His  master  of  the  ceremonies, 
who  stood  by  his  side,  touched  him  softly,  as 
to  warn  him  that  such  a  condescension  was 
too  great  in  him,  and  out  of  all  manner  of 
rule.  Upon  which  he  turned  to  him,  and 
said,  "Oh!  I  cry  you  mercy,  good  master: 
it  is  true,  I  am  but  a  novice  of  a  pope; 
I  have  not  3^et  so  much  as  learned  ill  man- 
na ra  ''   ^   'f'  5^ 


XLVII. 

TO    HIS    FATHER. 

Florence,  Jau.  12,  1741. 

We  still  continue  constant  at  Florence,  at 
present  one  of  the  dullest  cities  in  ttaly. 
Though  it  is  the  middle  of  the  carnival,  there 
are  no  public  diversions;  nor  is  masquerad- 
ing permitted  as  yet.  The  emperor's  obse- 
quies are  to  be  celebrated  publicly  the  16th 
of  this  month;  and  after  that,  it  is  imagined 
every  thing  will  go  on  in  its  usual  course. 
In  the  mean  time,  to  employ  the  minds  of 
the  populace,  the  government  has  thought 


138  gray's  letters. 

fit  to  bring  into  the  city  in  a  solemn  manner, 
and  at  a  great  expense,  a  famous  statue  of 
the  Virgin,  called  the  Madonna  deirinipru- 
neta,  from  the  place  of  her  residence,  which 
is  upon  a  mountain  seven  miles  off.  It 
never  has  been  practised,  but  at  times  of 
public  calamity;  and  was  done  at  present  to 
avert  the  ill  effects  of  a  late  great  inunda- 
tion, which  it  was  feared  might  cause  some 
epidemical  distemper.  It  was  introduced  a 
fo'^tnight  ago  in  procession,  attended  by  the 
council  of  regency,  the  senate,  the  nobility, 
and  all  the  religious  orders,  on  foot  and  bare- 
headed, and  so  carried  to  the  great  church, 
where  it  was  frequented  by  an  infinite  con- 
course of  people  from  all  the  country  round. 
Among  the  rest,  1  paid  my  devotions  almost 
ever}  day,  and  saw  numbers  of  people  pos- 
sessed with  the  d'^vil,  who  were  brought  to 
be  exorcised.  It  was  indeed  in  the  evening, 
and  the  churcL-doors  were  always  shut  be- 
fore the  ceremonies  were  finished,  so  that  I 
could  not  be  eye  witness  of  the  event;  but 
that  they  weie  all  cured  is  certain,  for  one 
never  heard  any  more  of  them  the  next  morn- 
ing. I  am  to  night  just  returned  from  seemg 
ourlady  make  her  exit  vvith  the  same  solemni- 
ties she  entered.  The  show  had  a  finer 
efi'ect  than  before;  for  it  was  dark,  and  every 


gray's  letters.  139 

body  (even  those  of  the  mob  that  could  afford 
it)  bore  a  white-wax  tlambeau.  I  beHeve 
there  was  at  least  live  thousand  of  them,  and 
the  march  was  near  three  hours  in  passing 
before  the  window.  The  subject  of  all  this 
devotion  is  supposed  to  be  a  large  tile  with 
a  rude  tigure  in  bas  relief  upon  it.  I  say 
supi^osed,  because  since  the  time  it  was  found 
(for  it  was  found  in  the  earth  in  ploughing) 
only  two  people  have  seen  it;  the  one  vvas, 
by  good  luck,  a  saint;  the  other  was  struck 
blind  for  his  presumption.  Ever  since  she 
has  been  covered  with  seven  veils:  never- 
theless, those  who  approach  her  tabernacle 
cast  their  eyes  down,  for  fear  they  should 
spy  her  through  all  her  veils.  Such  is  the 
history,  as  I  had  it  from  the  lady  of  the  house 
where  I  stood  to  see  her  pass;  with  many 
other  circumstances:  all  of  which  she  firmly 
believes,  and  ten  thousand  besides. 

We  shall  go  to  Venice  in  about  six  weeks, 
or  sooner.  A  number  of  German  troops 
are  upon  their  march  into  this  state,  in  case 
the  king  of  Naples  thinks  proper  to  attack  it. 
It  is  certain  that  he  asked  the  pope's  leave 
for  his  troops  to  pass  through  his  country. 
The  Tuscans  in  general  are  much  discon- 
tented, and  foolish  enough  to  wish  for  a 
Spanish  government,  or  any  rather  than 
this.  *  *  * 


J  40  gray's  letters. 


XLVIII. 


TO  MR,  WEST. 


Florence,  April  21,  1741. 

I  KNOW  not  what  degree  ofsatisfacLioii  it  will 
give  you  to  be  told  that  we  shall  set  out  from 
hence  the  24th  of  this  month,  and  not  stop 
above  a  fortnight  at  any  place  in  our  way. 
This  I  feel,  that  you  are  the  principal  jdea- 
sure  I  have  to  hope  for  in  my  own  country. 
Try  at  least  to  make  me  imagine  myself  not 
indifferent  to  you;  for  I  must  own  I  have  the 
vanity  of  desiring  to  be  esteemed  by  some- 
body, and  would  choose  that  somebody 
should  be  one  whom  I  esteem  as  much  as  I 
do  you.  As  I  am  recommending  myself  to 
your  love,  methinks  I  ought  to  send  you  my 
picture  (for  I  am  no  more  what  I  was,  some 
circumstances  excepted,  vvhich  1  hope  I  need 
not  particularize  to  you);  you  must  add  then, 
to  your  former  idea,  two  years  of  age,  a  rea- 
sonable quantity  of  dulness,  a  great  deal  of 
silence,  and  something  that  rather  resembles, 
than  is,  thinking;  a  confused  notion  of  many 
strange  and  fine  things  that  have  swum  be- 
fore my  eyes  for  some  time,  a  want  of  love 
for  general  society,  indeed  an  inability  to  it. 
On   the  good  side  you  may  add  a  sensibility 


gray's  letters.  14j 

for  what  others  feel,  and  indulgence  for  their 
faults  or  weaknesses,  a  love  of  truth,  and  de- 
testation of  everv  thing  else.  Then  you  are 
to  deduct  a  little  impertinence,  a  little  laugh- 
ter, a  great  deal  of  pride,  and  some  spirits. 
These  are  all  the  alterations  I  know  of,  you 
perhaps  may  find  more.  Think  not  that  I 
have  been  obliged  for  this  reformation  of 
manners  to  reason  or  reflection,  but  to  a 
severer  school-mistress.  Experience.  One 
has  little  merit  in  learning  her  lessons,  for 
one  cannot  well  help  it;  but  they  are  more 
usefril  than  others,  and  imprint  themselves 
in  the  very  heart.  I  tind  I  have  been  ha- 
ranj^uing  in  the  style  of  the  Sonof  Sirach,  so 
shall  tinish  here,  and  tell  you  that  our  route 
is  settled  as  follows:  First  to  Bologna  for  a 
few  days,  to  hear  the  Viscontina  sing;  next 
to  Reggio.  where  is  a  fair.  Now,  you  must 
know,  a  fair  here  is  not  a  place  where  one 
eats  gingerbread  or  rides  upon  hobby- 
horses; here  are  no  musical  clocks,  nor  tall 
Leicestershire  women;  one  has  nothing  but 
masquing,  gaming,  and  singing.  If  you  love 
operas,  there  will  be  the  most  splendid  ia 
Italy,  four  tip-top  voices,  a  new  theatre,  the 
duke  and  duchess  in  ail  their  pomps  and  van- 
ities. Does  not  this  sound  magnificent?  Yet 
is  the  city  of  Reggio  but  ope  step  above  Old 


142  gray's  letters. 

Brentford.  Well  ;  next  to  Venice  by  the 
1 1th  of  May,  there  to  s^ie  the  old  Doge  wed 
the  Adriatic  whore.  Tiien  to  VeroucJ,  so  to 
Milan,  so  to  Marseilles,  so  to  Lyons,  so  to 
Pari?,  so  to  West,  &.c.  in  SdBCula  saeculorum. 
Amen. 

Eleven  months,  at  different  times,  have  I 
passed  at  Florence;  und  yet  (God  help  me) 
know  not  either  people  or  language.  Yet 
the  place  and  t!ie  charming  prospects  demand 
a  poetical  farewell,  and  here  it  is, 

•  *  Oh  Faesulae  amoena 
Frigoribus  juga,  nee  liimimn  spiiaiitibus  aiiris, 
Alma  quibus  Tusci  Fallas  Dcus  ApeJiniiii 
Esse  dcdit,  glaucaque  sua  canesctre  silva  I 
Non  ego  vos  posthac  Ann  de  valle  videbo 
Porticibus  cireum,  et  candenti  ciiicta  corona 
Villarum  longe  n'.tido  consuigere  dorse, 
Antiquamve  aedem,  et  veteres  prsefen-e  eupressus 
Mirabof,  tectisque  super  pendeutia  teeta. 

I  will  send  yon,  too,  a  pretty  little  sonnet 
of  a  Signor  Abbate  Buondelmonte,  with  my 
imitation  of  it. 

Spesso  Amor  sotto  la  forma 
D'amista  ride,  e  s'aaconde : 
Poi  si  luischia,  e  si  co.'fonde 
Con  lo  sdt  gno,  e  col  rancor. 
Iii  Pielade  ei  si  traii^^forina ; 
Par  ti-astuUo,  e  par  dispetto : 


gray's  letters.  .  143 

>Ia  nel  suo  diverso  aspetto 
Sempi'egli,  e  I'iiUsso  Amor. 

Lusit  amicitiae  intei"dura  velatus  amictu, 

Et  bene  composita  vesie  fefeliit  Amor. 
Mox  irse  assumsit  cultiis,  laciemque  mmantem, 

luque  odium  versus,  versus  et  in  lacry.nas : 
Ludeiitem  fuge,  nee  lacrynianti,  aut  crede  furenti ; 

Idem  est  dissimili  semper  in  ore  Deus. 

Here  cornes  a  letter  from  you. — I  must 
defer  giving  my  opinion  of  *Pausanias  till  I 
can  see  the  whole,  and  only  have  said  what 
I  did  in  obedience  to  your  commands  I 
have  spoken  with  such  freedom  on  this  head, 
that  it  seems  but  jurst  you  should  have  your 
revenge;  and  therefore  I  send  you  the  be- 
ginning not  of  an  epic  poem,  but  of  ja  mela- 
physic  one.  Poems  and  metaphysics  (say 
you,  with  your  spectacles  on)  are  inconsist- 
ent things.  A  metaphysical  poem  is  a  con- 
tradiction in  terms.  It  is  true,  but  I  will  go 
ou.  It  is  Latin  too.  to  increase  the  absurdity. 
It  will,  1  suppose,  put  you  in  mind  of  the 
man  who  wrote  a  treatise  of  canon  law  in 
hexameters.     Pray  help  me  to  the  descrip- 

•  Some  part  of  a  tragedy  under  that  title,  which  Mr.  Wert  bad 
begun, 

t  The  beginning  of  the  first  book  of  a  didactic  poem,  ^  De  Prin- 
cipiis  C<^itaiidi."— 5ee  Poenis. 


144  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

tion  of  a  mixed  mode,  and  a  little  episode 
about  space. 


Mr.  Walpole  and  Mr.  Gray  set  out  from  Florence  at  the  time 
specified  in  the  foregoing  letter.  When  Mr.  Gray  left  Venice, 
vhich  he  did  the  middle  of  July  following,  he  i-etumed  home 
through  Padua,  Verona,  Milan.  Tinin,  and  Lyons  ;  from  all  which 
places  he  writ  either  to  his  father  or  mother  with  great  punctuali- 
ty :  hut  merely  to  inform  them  of  his  health  and  safety  ;  ahout 
which  (as  might  be  expected)  they  were  now  vei-y  anxious,  as  he 
travelled  with  only  a  "  Laquais  de  Voyage."  These  letters  do  not 
even  mention  that  he  went  out  of  his  way  to  make  a  second  visit 
to  the  Graiide  Chartreuse,  and  there  wrote  in  the  Album  of  the 
Fathtrs  the  Alcaic  Ode  : 

Oh  Tu,  severi  Religio  loci,  hc.—See  Poems. 

He  was  at  Turin  the  15th  of  August,  and  Ijegan  to  cross  the  Alps 
the  next  day.  On  the  25th  he  reachtd  Ljx)i  s  -,  therefore  it  must 
have  Ijeen  between  these  two  dates  that  he  made  this  visit. 


XLIX. 

FROM  MR.   WEST. 

1  WRITE  to  make  you  write,  for  I  have  not 
much  to  tell  you.  I  have  recovered  no 
spirits  as  yet,*  but,  as  I  am  iiot  displeased 

*  The  distresses  of  Mr.  West's  mind  had  already  too  far  affected  a 
body,  from  the  first  wejkkaod  delicate.    His  health  declined  daily, 


gray's  letters.  lib 

with  my  company,  I  sit  purring  by  the  fire- 
side in  my  arm-chair  with  no  small  satisfac- 
tion. I  read  too  sometimes,  and  have  begun 
Tacitus,  but  have  not  yet  read  enough  to 
jud^e  of  him;  only  his  Pannonian  sedition,  in 
the  first  book  of  his  Annals  which  is  just  as 
far  as  1  have  got,  seemed  to  me  a  hltle  te- 
dious. 1  have  no  more  to  say,  but  to  desire 
you  will  write  letters  of  a  handsome  length, 
and  always  answer  me  within  a  reasonable 
spice  of  time,  which  1  leave  to  your  discre- 
tion. 

Popes,  Match  28,  1742. 

P.  S.    The   new  Dunciad  !  qu'en  pensez 
vous  ? 


TO  MR.  WEST.* 

I  TRUST  to  the  country,  and  that  easy  indo- 

and,  therefore,  he  left  town  in  Mai-ch,  1742,  and,  for  the  benefit  of 
the  air,  went  to  David  Mitchell's,  Esq.  at  Popes,  near  Hatfield, 
Hertfoi-dshire ;  at  whose  house  he  died  the  1st  of  June  following. 

*  Mr  Gra5'  caruc  to  to'\u about  the  1st  of  Septenilier,  1741.  His 
father  died  the  6th  of  November  foliuwiug,  at  the  age  of  sLxty-five. 
The  latter  ena  of  the:  subsequent  year  he  went  to  Cambridge  totake 
hi  s  bachelor's  degree  in  civil  law. 

VOL.    IV.  10 


146  GRAV   S    LETTERS. 

lence  you  say  you  enjoy  there,  to  restore 
you  your  health  and  spirits;  and  doubt  not 
but,  when  the  sun  grows  warm  enough  to 
tempt  you  from  your  fireside,  you  will  (like 
all  other  things)  be  the  better  for  his  influ- 
ence, lie  is  my  old  friend,  and  an  excellent 
nurse,  1  assure  you.  Had  it  not  been  for 
him,  life  had  been  often  to  me  intolerable. 
Pray  do  not  imagine  that  Tacitus,  of  all  au- 
thors in  the  world,  can  be  tedious.  An  an- 
nalist, you  know,  is  hy  no  means  master  of 
his  subject;  and  I  think  one  may  venture  to 
say,  that  if  those  Funnonian  affairs  are  te- 
dious in  his  hands,  in  another's  they  would 
have  been  insupportable.  However,  fear 
not,  they  will  soon  be  over,  and  he  will  make 
ample  amends.  A  man,  who  could  join  the 
brilliant  of  wit  and  concise  sententiousness 
peculiar  to  that  age,  with  the  truth  and  grav- 
ity of  better  times,  and  the  deep  reflection 
and  good  sense  of  the  best  moderns,  cannot 
choose  bat  have  something  to  strike  you. 
Yet  what  I  admire  in  him  above  all  this,  is 
his  detestation  of  tyranny,  and  the  high  spirit 
of  liberty  that  every  now  and  then  breaks 
out,  as  it  were,  whether  he  would  or  no  I 
remember  a  sentence  in  his  Agricola  that 
(concise  as  it  is)  I  always  admired  for  saying 
much  in  a  little  compass.     He  speaks  of  Do- 


GRAVr's    LETTERS.  147 

mitlan,  who  upon  seeing  the  last  will  of 
that  general,  where  he  had  made  him  co- 
heir with  his  wife  and  daughter,  "Satis  con- 
stabat  laitatum  eum,  velut  honore,  judicio- 
que:  tarn  Cceca  et  corrupta  mens  assiduis 
adulationibus  erat,  ut  nesciret  a  bono  patre 
non  scribi  hasredem,  nisi  malum  principem." 

As  to  the  Dunciad,  it  is  greatly  admired: 
The  genii  of  Operas  and  Schools,  with  their 
attendants,  the  pleas  of  the  Virtuosos  and 
Florists,  and  the  yawn  of  Dulness  in  the  end, 
are  as  fine  as  an}'  thing  he  has  written.  The 
Metaphysicians'  part  is  to  me  the  worst;  and 
here  and  there  a  few  ill-expressed  lines,  and 
some  hardly  intelligible. 

I  take  the  liberty  of  sending  you  a  long 
speech  of  Agrippina;*  much  too  long,  but  I 
could  be  glad  you  would  retrench  it.  Ace- 
ronia,  you  may  remember,  had  heen  giving 
quiet  counsels.  I  fancy,  if  it  ever  be  finish- 
ed, it  vvill  be  in  the  nature  of  Nat.  Lee's  bed- 
lam tragedy,  which  had  twenty-five  acts  and 
some  odd  scenes. 

♦  See  Poems. 


148 


LI. 


FROM    MR.    WEST. 


Popes,  April  4,  1742. 

1  OWN  in  i^eneral  I  think  Agrippina's  speech 
too  long;  but  how  to  retrench  it,  I  know 
not:  but  I  have  something  else  to  say,  and 
that  is  in  relation  to  the  style,  which  appears 
to  me  too  antiquated.  Racine  was  of  ano- 
ther opinion:  he  no  where  gives  you  the 
phrases  of  Ronsard:  His  language  is  the  lan- 
guage of  the  times,  and  that  of  the  purest  sort; 
so  that  his  French  is  reckoned  a  standard.  I 
will  not  decide  what  style  is  fit  for  our  English 
stage:  but  I  should  rather  choose  one  that 
bordered  upon  Cato,  than  upon  Shakspeare. 
One  may  imitate  (if  one  can)  Shakspeare's 
manner,  his  surprising  strokes  of  true  nature, 
his  expressive  force  in  painting  characters, 
and  all  his  other  beauties;  preserving  at  the 
same  time  our  own  language.  Were  Shak- 
speare alive  now,  he  would  write  in  a  dif- 
ferent style  from  what  he  did.  These  are 
my  sentiments  upon  these  matters:  jperhaps  I 
am  wrong,  for  lam  neither  a  Tarpa,  nor  am 
I  quite  an  Aristarchus.     You   see    I    write 


gray's  letters.  149 

freel}'  both  of  you  and  Shakspeare;  but  it  is 
as  good  as  writing  not  freely,  where  you 
know  it  is  acceptable. 

I  have  been  tormented  within  this  week 
with  a  most  violent  cough;  for  when  once  it 
sets  up  its  note,  it  will  go  on,  cough  after 
cough,  shaking  and  tearing  me  for  half  an 
hour  together,  and  then  it  leaves  me  in  a 
great  swea't,  as  much  fatigued  as  if  1  had 
been  labouring  at  the  plough.  All  this  de- 
scription of  my  cough  in  prose,  is  only  to  in- 
trqduce  another  description  of  it  in  verse, 
perhaps  not  worth  your  perusal;  but  it  is 
very  short,  and  besides  has  this  remarkable 
in  it,  that  it  was  the  production  of  four 
o'clock  in  the  morning,  while  I  lay  in  my 
bed  tossing  and  coughing,  and  all  unable  to 
sleep. 

Ante  omnes  moibos  importuiiissima  tussis, 
Qua  durare  datur,  traxitque  sub  ilia  vires  t 
Dui-a  etenira  vei-sans  inio  sub  pectore  regai, 
Perpetuo  exercet  teneras  luctamine  costas, 
Oraque  distorquet,  vocemque  iminutat  anlielam  ; 
Nee  cessare  locus  :  sed  saevo  concita  motu, 
MoUe  domat  latus,  et  corpus  labor  omne  fatigat : 
Unde  raolesta  dies,  noctemque  insomnia  turbant. 
Nee  Tua,  si  raecura  Comes  hie  jucundus  adesses, 
Verba  .juvar*  queant,  aut  hunc  lenire  do'orem 
Sufficiant  tua  vox  dulcis.  nee  vultus  ai«atu«. 


150  gray's  letters. 

Do  not  mistake  me,  I  do  not  condemn  Ta- 
citus: I  was  then  inclined  to  find  him  tedious: 
the  German  sedition  sufficiently  made  up 
for  it;  and  the  speech  of  Germanicus,  by 
which  he  reclaims  his  soldiers,  is  quite  mas- 
terly. Your  New  Dunciad  I  have  no  con- 
ception of.  I  shall  be  too  late  for  our  din- 
ner if  I  write  any  more. 

Yours. 


LII. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

London,  April,  Thursday. 

You  are  the  first  who  ever  made  a  muse  of  a 
cough;  to  me  it  seems  a  much  more  easy 
task  to  versify  in  one's  sleep,  (that  indeed 
you  were  of  old  famous  for)  than  for  want  of 
it.  Not  the  wakeful  nightingale  (vyhen  she 
had  a  cough)  ever  sung  so  sweetly.  1  give 
you  thanks  for  your  warble,  and  wish  you 
could  sing  yourself  to  rest.  These  wicked 
remains  of  your  illness  will  sure  give  way 
to  warm  weather  and  gentle  exercise;  which 
I  hope  you  will  not  omit  as  the  season  ad- 
vances. Whatever  low  spirits  and  indo- 
lence, the  effect  of  them,  may  advise  to  the 


geay's  letters.  Ibl 

contrary,  I  pray  you  add  five  steps  to  your 
walk  daily  for  my  sake;  by  the  help  of 
which,  in  a  month's  time,  I  propose  to  set 
you  on  horseback. 

I  talked  of  the  Dunciad  as  concluding 
3'ou  had  seen  it;  if  you  have  not,  do  you 
choose  I  should  get  and  send  it  to  you?  1 
have  myself,  upon  your  recommendation, 
been  reading  Joseph  Andrews.  The  inci- 
dents are  ill-laid  and  without  invention;  but 
the  characters  have  a  great  deal  of  nature, 
which  always  pleases  even  in  her  lowest 
shapes.  Parson  Adams  is  perfectly  well;  so 
is  Mrs.  Shpslop,  and  the  story  of  Wilson; 
and  throughout  he  shows  himself  well  read 
in  stage-coaches,  country  'squires,  inns,  and 
inns  of  court.  His  reflections  upon  high 
people  and  low  people,  and  misses  and 
masters,  are  very  good.  However  the  ex- 
altedness  of  some  minds  (or  rather  as  1 
shrewdly  suspect  their  insipidity  and  want 
of  feeling  or  observation)  may  make  them 
insensible  to  these  light  things,  (I  mean  such 
as  characterize  and  paint  nature)  yet  surely 
Ihey  are  as  weighty  and  much  more  useful 
than  your  grave  discourses  upon  the  mind, 
the  passions,  and  what  not.  Now  as  the  pa- 
radisaical pleasures  of  the  ^lahomet^ns  consist 
in    playing   upon    the    flute   and    lying  with 


152  gray's  letters. 

Ilouris,   be  mine  to    read   eternal   new  ro- 
mances of  Marivaux  and  Crebillon. 

Yon  are  very  good  in  givinn;  yonrself  the 
trouble  to  read  and  find  fciult  with  my  long- 
harangues.  Your  freedom  (as  you  call  it) 
has  so  little  need  of  apologies,  that  I  should 
scarce  excuse  your  treating  me  any  other- 
wise; which,  whatever  compliment  it  might 
be  to  my  vanity,  would  be  making  a  very  ill 
one  to  my  understanding.  As  to  matter  of 
style,  I  have  this  to  say:  the  language  of  the 
age  is  never  the  language  of  poetry;  except 
among  tlie  French,  whose  verse,  where  the 
thouglit  or  image  does  not  support  it,  differs 
in  nothing  from  prose.  Our  poetry,  on  the 
contrary,  has  a  language  peculiar  to  itself;  to 
which  almost  every  one,  that  has  written, 
has  added  something  by  enriching  it  with 
foreign*idioms  and  derivatives:  nay,  some- 
times words  of  their  ovvn  composition  or  in- 
vention. Sbakspeare  and  Milton  have  been 
great  creators  this  way;  and  no  one  more 
licentious  than  Pope  or  Dryden,  who  per- 
petually borrow  expi-^ssions  from  the  former. 
Let  me  give  you  some  instances  from  Ory- 
den,  whom  every  body  reckons  a  great  mas- 
ter of  our  poetical  tongue. — Full  of  muscful 
mopdngs — unlike  the  trim  of  love — a  plea- 
iant  beverage — 2.  roundelay  of  love — stood  si- 


gray's  letters.  153 

lent  in  his  mocd — with  knots  and  knaves 
deformed—his  ireful  mood — in  prond  array 

\ih  loon  was  granted and  dh^array  and 

shaiiietul  ront — rv.'unvnrd  h't  wise — -furbished 
for  tiie  field — the  foiled  dvddrr'd  oaks — dis- 
hrittd — siiwuhl  n«^  1[\Ame?—rctchless  of  laws- 
cronts  old  and  tialy — the  beldam  at  his  side — 
the  grandam-hap — villi  nvd;  his  father's  fnme. 

But  they  are  infiiiite:  and  our  language 

not  being  a  settled  thing  (like  the  French) 
has  an  undoubted  right  to  words  of  an  hun- 
dred years  old,  provided  antiquity  have  not 
rendered  them  uninteHigible.  In  truth, 
Shakspeare's  language  is  one  of  his  princi- 
pal beauties;  and  he  has  no  less  advantage 
over  your  Adiisons  and  Rowes  in  this, 
than  in  those  other  great  excellences  you 
mention.  Every  word  in  him  is  a  picture. 
Pray  put  me  the  following  lines  into  the 
tongue  of  our  modern  dramatics: 

But  I,  that  am  not  shaped  for  sportive  tricks, 
Nor  made  to  court  an  amorous  looking-glass: 
I.  that  am  rudely  stamp'd.  and  vant  love's  majesty 
To  strut  before  a  wanton,  ambling  nymph : 
I,  that  am  curtail'd  of  this  fair  proportion, 
Cheated  of  feature  by  dissembling  nature, 
Deform'd,  unfinisli'd,  sent  befon  my  time 
Into  this  breathins;  world,  scarce  half  made  wp— 


J 54  gray's  letters. 

And  what  follows.  To  me  they  appear  un- 
translatable; and  if  this  be  the  case,  our 
language  is  greatly  degenerated-  However, 
the  affectation  of  imitating  Shakspeare  may 
doubtless  be  carried  too  fir;  and  is  no  sort 
of  excuse  for  sentiments  ill-suited,  or  speech- 
es ill-timed,  which  1  believe  is  a  little  the 
case  with  me.  I  guess  the  most  faulty  ex- 
pressions may  be  these — silken  son  of  dalli- 
ance—-di07vsirr  pretensions — wrinkled  bel- 
dams— arched  the  hearer's  brow  and  rivcttcd 
his  eyes  in  fearful  extasie.  These  are  easily 
altered  or  omitted:  and  indeed  if  the  thoughts 
be  wrong  or  superfluous,  there  is  nothing 
easier  than  to  leave  out  the  whole.  The 
first  ten  or  twelve  lines  are,  I  believe,  the 
best;*  and  as  for  the  rest,  I  was  betrayed 
into  a  good  deal  of  it  by  Tacitus;  only 
what  he  has  said  in  five  words,  I  imagine 
I  have  said  in  fifty  lines:  such  is  the  mis- 
fortune of  imitating  the  inimitable.  Now,  if 
you  are  of  my  opinion,  una  litura  may  do 
the  business,  better  than  a  dozen;  and  you 
need  not  fear  unravelling  my  web.  I  am  a  sort 
of  spider;  and  have  little  else  to  do  but  spin 

*  The  lines  which  he  means  hei-e  are  from  ''  thus  ever  grave 
and  undisturh'd  reflection."  to  "  Rubellins  lives."  For  the  p.'utof 
the  scene,  whicli  he  sent  in  his  former  letter,  began  there. 


gray's  letters.  155 

it  over  again,  or  creep  to  some  other  place 
and  spin  there.  Alas!  for  one  who  has 
nothing  to  do  but  amuse  himself,  I  believe 
my  amusements  are  as  little  amusing  as  most 
folks.  But  no  matter;  it  mnke'-  the  *;n;.rs 
pass;  and  is  better  than  iv  ufAcc^iet  xett  uficva-ioe 
xatrec^imxi. 

Adieu. 


LIIl. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

To  begin  with  the  conclusion  of  your  letter, 
which  is  Greek,  I  desire  that  you  will  quar- 
rel no  more  with  your  manner  of  passing 
your  time.  In  my  opinion  it  is  irreproacha- 
ble, especially  as  it  produces  such  excellent 
fruit;  and  if  I,  like  a  saucy  bird,  must  be 
pecking  at  it,  you  ought  to  consider  that 
it  is  because  I  like  it.  No  una  litura  I  beg 
you,  no  unravelling  of  your  web,  dear  sir! 
only  pursue  it  a  little  further,  and  then 
one  shall  be  able  to  judge  of  it  a  little  bet- 
ter. You  know  the  crisis  of  a  play  is  in 
the  first  act;  its  damnation  or  salvation  whol- 
ly rests  there.  But  till  that  first  act  is  over, 
every  body  suspends  his  vote:  so  how  do 


166  gray's  letters. 

you  think  I  can  form,  as  yet,  any  just  idea  of 
the  speeches  in  regard  to  their  length  or 
shortness?  Tlie  connection  and  symmetry 
of  such  little  parts  with  one  another  must 
natural]3'  escape  me,  as  not  having  the  plan 
of  the  whole  in  my  head;  neither  can  I  de- 
cide ahoul  the  thoughts,  whether  they  are 
wrong  or  superfluous;  they  may  have  some 
future  tendency  which  I  perceive  not.  The 
style  only  was  free  to  me,  and  there  I  find  we 
are  pretty  much  of  the  same  sentiment:  for 
you  say  the  affectation  of  imitating  Shak- 
speare  may  doubtless  be  carried  too  far:  I 
say  as  much  and  no  more.  For  old  words 
we  know  are  old  gold,  provided  they  are 
well  chosen.  Whatever  Ennius  was,  I  do 
not  consider  Shakspeare  as  a  dunghill  in  the 
least:  on  the  contrary,  he  is  a  mine  of  an- 
cient ore,  where  all  our  great  modern  po- 
ets have  found  their  advantage.  1  do  not 
know  how  it  is;  but  his  old  expressions  have 
more  energy  in  them  than  ours,  and  are 
even  more  adapted  to  poetry;  certainly, 
where  they  are  judiciously  and  sparingly  in- 
serted, they  add  a  certain  grace  to  the  com- 
position; in  the  same  manner  as  Poussin 
gave  a  beauty  to  his  pictures  by  his  know- 
ledge in  the  ancient  proportions:  but  should 
he,  or  any  other  painter,  carry  the  imita- 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  157 

tion  too  far,  and  ne^ijlect  that  best  of  models, 
Nature,  I  am  afraid  it  vvo-ild  prove  a  very 
flat  performance.  To  tinish  this  long  criti- 
cism: 1  have  this  further  notion  about  old 
worcis  revived,  (is  not  this  a  pretty  way  of 
tinishing?)  i  think  them  of  excellent  use  in 
tai'^s:  they  add  a  certain  drollery  to  the 
comic,  and  a  romantic  ijravity  to  the  serious, 
which  are  both  charming  in  their  kind;  and 
this  way  of  charming  Dryden  understood 
very  well.  One  need  only  read  Milton  to 
acknowledge  the  dignity  they  give  the  epic. 
But  now  comes  my  opinion,  that  they  ought 
to  be  used  in  tragedy  more  sparingly,  than 
in  most  kinds  of  [»oetry.  Tragedy  is  de- 
signed for  public  representation,  and  what 
is  designed  for  that  should  be  certainly  most 
intelligible.  I  believe  half  the  audience 
that  come  to  Shakspeare's  plays  do  not  un- 
derstand the  half  of  what  they  hear. — But 
finissons  enfin. — Yet  one  word  more. — You 
think  the  ten  or  twelve  tirst  lines  the  best, 
now  I  am  for  the  fourteen  last;*  add,  that 
they  contain  not  one  word  of  ancientry. 

•  He  means  the  conclusion  «f  the  first  scene.  But  here  and 
tljToughout  his  criticism  on  old  words,  he  is  not  so  consistent  as 
hii  covrfspondeiii  ;  for  he  here  i).siits  that  ail  ancientry  should 
be  struck  out,  and  in  a  former  passage  [he  admits  it  may  be  used 
sparingly. 


158  GRAY  S  LETTERS. 

I  rejoice  you  found  amusement  in  Joseph 
Andrews.  But  then  I  think  your  concep- 
tions of  Paradise  a  little  upon  the  Bergerac. 
Les  Lettres  du  Seraphim  R.  a  madame  la 
Cherubinesse  de  Q,.  What  a  piece  of  extra- 
vagance would  there  be! 

And  now  you  must  know  that  my  bodj"- 
continues  weak  and  enervate.  And  for  my 
animal  spirits  they  are  in  perpetual  fluctua- 
tion: some  whole  days  I  have  no  relish,  no 
attention  for  any  thing;  at  other  times  I  re- 
vive, and  am  capable  of  writing  a  long  let- 
ter, as  you  see;  and  though  1  do  not  vvrite 
speeches,  yet  1  translate  them.  When  you 
understand  what  speech,  you  will  own  that 
it  is  a  bold  and.  perhaps  a  dull  attempt.  la 
three  words,  it  is  prose,  it  is  from  Tacitus, 
it  is  of  Germanicus.  Peruse,  perpend,  pro- 
nounce.* 


LIV. 

TO    MR.    WEST. 

London,  April,  1742. 

1  SHOULD  not  have  failed  to  answer  your  let- 
ter immediately,  but  I  went  out  of  town  for 

*  This  speech  I  omit  to  print  as  I  have  generally  avoided  to 
publish  mere  translations  either  of  Mr.  Gray  or  his  friend. 


gray's  letters.  169 

a  little  while,  which  hindered  me.  Its 
length,  (besides  the  pleasure  naturally  ac- 
companying a  long  letter  from  you)  atiords 
me  a  new  one,  when  I  think  it  is  a  symptom 
of  the  recovery  of  your  health,  and  flatter 
myself  that  your  bodily  strength  returns  in 
proportion.  Pray  do  not  forget  to  mention 
the  progress  you  make  continually.  As  to 
Agrippina,  I  begin  to  be  of  your  opinion;  and 
find  myself  (as  women  are  of  their  children) 
less  enamoured  of  my  productions  the  older 
they  grow.  She  is  laid  up  to  sleep  till  next 
summer;  so  bid  her  good  night.  I  think 
you  have  translated  Tacitus  very  justly, 
that  is,  freely  ;  and  accommodated  his 
thoughts  to  the  turn  and  genius  of  our 
language;  which,  though  I  commend  your 
judgment,  is  no  commendation  of  the  En- 
glish tongue,  which  is  too  diffuse,  and  daily 
grows  more  and  more  enervate.  One  shall 
never  be  more  sensible  of  this,  than  in  turn- 
ing an  author  like  Tacitus.  I  have  been 
trying  it  in  some  parts  of  Thucydides,  (who 
has  a  little  resemblance  of  him  in  his  con- 
ciseness) and  endeavoured  to  do  it  closely, 
but  found  it  produced  mere  nonsense.  If 
you  have  any  inclination  to  see  what  figure 
Tacitus  makes  in  Italian,  I  have  a  Tuscan 
translation  of  Davanzati,  much  esteemed  in 


160  gray's  letters. 

Italy;  and  will  send  you  the  same  speech 
yoM  sent  mc;  that  is,  if  you  care  for  it.  In 
the  mean  time  accept  of  Fropertius.*    *  *  * 


LV. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

Popes,  May  6,  1742. 

Without  an)-  preface  1  come  to  3  our  verses, 
which  1  read  over  and  over  with  excessive 
pleasure,  and  which  are  at  least  as  good  as 
Propertius.  1  am  only  soriy  you  follow  the 
blunders  of  Broukhusius,  all  whose  inser- 
tions are  nonsense.  I  have  some  objections 
to  your  antiquated  words,  and  am  also  an 
enemy  to  Alexandrines;  at  least  I  do  not 
like  them  in  elegy.  But,  after  all,  I  admire 
your  translation  so  extremely,  that  I  cannot 
help  repeutiny;  I  long  to  show  you  some  lit- 
tle errors  you  are  fallen  into  by  following 
BroukhHsius.  ********  Were  1  with 
you  now,  and  Propertius  with  your  ver^^es 
lay  upon  the  table  between  us,  I  could  dis- 
cuss this  point  in  a  moment;  but  there  is 
nothing  so  tiresome  as  spinning  out  a  criti- 

*  A  translation  of  the  first  elegy  of  the  second  book  in  English 
riiyme ;  omitted  for  the  reason  giren  in  the  last  note. 


gray's  letters.  161 

cism  in  a  letter;  doubts  arise,  and  explana- 
tions follow,  till  there  swells  out  at  least  a 
volume  of  undigested  observations:  and  all 
because  you  are  not  with  him  whom  you 
want  to  convince.  Read  only  the  letters  be- 
tween Pope  and  Cromwell  in  proof  of  this; 
they  dispute  without  end.  Are  you  aware 
now  that  I  have  an  interest  all  this  while  in 
banishing  criticism  from  our  correspondence? 
Indeed  1  have;  for  I  am  going  to  write  down 
a  little  ode  (if  it  deserves  the  name)  for 
your  perusal,  which  I  am  afraid  will  hardly 
stand  that  test.  Nevertheless  I  leave  you  at 
your  full  liberty;  so  here  it  follows. 


ODE. 

Dear  Gray,  that  always  in  my  Iieavt 
Possesses  far  the  better  part, 
What  mean  these  sudden  blasts  that  rise 
And  drive  the  zephyrs  from  the  skies  ? 
O  join  with  mine  thy  tuneful  lay, 
And  iuvocate  the  tardy  May. 

Come,  fairest  nymph,  resume  tliy  reign  ! 
Bring  all  the  Graces  in  thy  train  ! 
With  balmy  breath,  and  floweiy  tread, 
Ris'  from  thy  soft  ambrosial  bed  ; 
Where,  in  Elysian  slumber  bound, 
Embowering  myrtles  veil  thee  round. 
VOL. IV.  11 


162  gray's  letters. 

Awake,  in  all  thy  glories  dress'd  ; 
Recall  die  zephyi-s  from  tlie  west : 
Restore  tbt-  sun,  revive  the  skies  : 
At  mine   and  Nature's  call,  arise ! 
Great  Nature's  self  upbraids  tliy  stay. 
And  misses  her  accustom'd  May. 

See  !  all  her  works  demand  thy  aid  ; 
The  labours  of  Pomona  fade  : 
A  plaint  is  heard  from  every  tree  ; 
Each  budding  floweret  calls  for  thee; 
The  birds  loi'get  to  love  and  sing  ; 
With  storms  alone  the  forests  nng. 

Come  then,  with  Pleasure  at  thy  sidc;, 
Diffuse  thy  vernal  spirit  wide  ; 
Create,  where'er  thou  turn'st  thy  eye, 
Peace,  Plenty,  Love,  and  Harmony  ; 
Till  every  being  share  its  part. 
And  heaven  and  earth  be  glad  at  heart. 


LVI. 


TO    MR.    WEST. 

London,  May  3,  1742. 

i  REJOICE  to  see  you  putting  up  your  prayers 
to  the  May:  she  cannot  choose  but  come  at 
such  a  call.  It  is  as  light  and  genteel  as 
herself  You  bid  me  find  fault;  I  am  afraid 
1  cannot;  however,  I  will  try.  The  first 
stanza  (if  what  you  say  to  me  in  it  did  not 


gray's  letters.  163 

make  me  think  it  the  best)  I  should  call  the 
worst  of  the  live  (except  ttie  fourth  line.) 
The  two  next  are  very  piciuresque,  Miltonic, 
and  musical;  her  bed  is  so  soft  and  so  snug 
that  1  long  to  lie  with  her.  But  those  two 
lines,  "  Great  Nature,"  are  my  favourites. 
The  exclamation  of  the  Howers  is  a  little 
step  too  far.  The  last  stanza  is  full  as  good 
as  the  second  and  third;  the  last  line  bold, 
but  1  think  not  too  bold.  Now,  as  to  myself 
and  my  translation,  pray  do  not  call  names. 
1  never  saw  Broukhusius  in  my  life.  It  is 
Scaliger  who  attempted  to  range  Propertius 
in  order;  who  was,  and  still  is,  in  sad  condi- 
tion *******■*.  You  see,  by  what  I 
sent  you,  that  I  converse  as  usual  with  none 
but  the  dead:  they  are  my  old  friends,  and  al- 
most make  me  long  to  be  with  them.  Vou 
will  not  wonder  therefore,  that  I,  who  live 
only  in  times  past,  am  able  to  tell  you  no 
news  of  the  present.  I  have  finished  the 
Peloponnesian  war  much  to  my  honour,  and 
a  tight  conflict  it  was,  I  promise  you.  I 
have  drank  and  sung  with  Anacreon  for  the 
last  fortnight,  and  am  now  feeding  siieep  with 
Tlieocritus.  Besides,  to  quit  my  hgure, 
(because  it  is  foolish)  I  have  run  over  Pliny's 
Epistles  and  Martial  &c  Trx^s^yov}  not  to  men- 
tion Petrarch,  who,  by  tne  way,  is  some- 


164  gray's  letters, 

times  very  tender  and  natural.  I  must 
needs  tell  you  three  lines  in  Anacreon, 
where  the  expression  seems  to  me  inimita- 
ble. He  is  describing  hair  as  he  would -have 
it  painted. 


'a 


E\/««?  cT'  iKivQipou;  juol 
Aipts  m  Bi\ova-i  KiiQcti. 
Guess,  too,  where  this  is  about  a  dimple. 

Sigilla  in  mento  unpressa  Amoris  digitulo 
Vestigio  demonstrant  moUitudinem. 


LVII. 

FROM    MR.    WEST. 

Popes,  May  11,  1742. 

i^ouR  fragment  is  in  Aulus  Gellius;  and  both 
it  and  your  Greek  delicious.  But  why  are 
yon  thus  melancholy?  I  am  so  sorry  for  it, 
that  you  see  I  cannot  forbear  writing  again 
the  very  first  opportunity;  though  I  have 
little  to  say,  except  to  expostulate  with  you 
about  it.  I  find  you  converse  much  with 
the  dead,  and  I  do  not  blame  you  for  that; 
J  converse  with  them  too,  though  not  indeed 


gray's  letters.  466 

with  the  Greek.  But  I  must  condemn  you 
for  your  longing  to  be  with  them.  What, 
are  there  no  joys  among  the  living?  I  could 
almost  cry  out  with  Cutullus,  "Alphene  im- 
memor,  atque  unanimis  false  sodalibus!" 
But  to  turn  an  accusation  thus  upon  another, 
is  ungenerous;  so  I  will  take  my  leave  of 
you  for  the  present  with  a  *'Vale,  et  vive 
paulisper  cum  vivis."" 


LVIII. 

TO  MR.  WEST. 

LondoD,  ISIay  57,  1742. 

Mine,  you  are  to  know,  is  a  vvhile  melan- 
choly,  or  rather  leucocholy  for  the  most 
part  ;  which,  though  it  seldom  laughs  or 
dances,  nor  ever  amounts  to  what  one  calls 
joy  or  pleasure,  yet  is  a  good  easy  sort  of  a 
state,  and  (ja  ne  laisse  que  de  s'amuser.  The 
only  fault  of  it  is  insipidity;  which  is  apt  now 
and  then  to  give  a  sort  of  ennui,  which 
makes  one  form  certain  little  wishes  that 
signify  nothing.  But  there  is  another  sort, 
black  indeed,  which  I  have  now  and  then 
felt,  that  has  somewhat  in  it  like  Tertullian's 
rule  of  iiiith,  Credo   quia  impossibile  est  ; 


166  gray's  letters. 

for  it  believes,  nay,  is  gure  of  every  thing 
that  is  unlikely,  so  it  be  but  frightful;  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  excludes  and  shuts  its 
eyes  to  the  most  possible  hopes,  and  every 
thing  that  is  pleasureable  ;  from  this  the 
Lord  deliver  us!  for  none  but  he  and  sun- 
shiny weather  can  do  it.  In  hopes  of  enjoy- 
ing; thi.a  kind  of  weather,  I  am  going  into  the 
country  for  a  few  weeks,  but  shall  be  never 
the  nearer  any  society;  so,  if  you  have  any 
charity,  you  will  continue  to  write.  My  life 
is  like  Harry  the  Fourth's  supper  of  hens. — 
"Poulets  a  la  broche,pouletsen  ragout,  pou- 
lets  en  hachis,  poulets  en  fricasees."  Read- 
ing here,  reading  there;  nothing  but  books 
with  different  sauces. — Do  not  let  me  lose 
my  dessert  then;  for  though  that  be  reading 
too,  yet  it  has  a  very  different  flavour.  The 
May  seems  to  be  come  since  your  invitation; 
and  I  propose  to  bask  in  her  beams  and  dress 
me  in  her  roses. 

Et  caput  in  Tema  semper  habere  rosa: 

I  sh^dl  see  Mr.  *  *  and  his  wife,  nay,  and 
his  child  too,  for  he  has  got  a  boy  Is  it  not 
odd  to  consider  one's  contempoi'aries  in  the 
grave  light  of  husband  and  father  ?  There  is 
my  lords  *  *  and  ^  *  *,  they  are  statesmen; 


gray's  letters.  167 

do  not  you  remember  them  dirty  boys  play- 
ing at  cricket  ?  As  for  me,  I  am  never  a  bit 
the  older,  nor  the  bigger,  nor  the  wiser  than 
I  was  then;  no,  not  lor  having  been  beyond 
sea. — Pray  how  are  you  ? 

I  send  you  an  inscription  for  a  wood  joining 
to  a  park  of  mine;  (it  is  on  the  contiries  of 
Mount  Cithaeion,  on  the  left  hand  as  you  go 
to  Thebes):  you  know  I  am  no  friend  to 
hunters,  and  hate  to  be  disturbed  by  their 
noise. 

A^c^svoc  TrowQ-.ip'Jv  tKuCoKov  uXro?  AV*.ircrA?y 
<T:t?  fitv*?  Tiy.iYii,  Mt^i,  KVVctyi,  Bid;. 

yiovvoi  X6  ivBA  Kuvm  ^*9s*)V  KKoLyyiva-iv  vKety/uiaiy 
ctvrsL^iii  NufJKpdv  ayponpav  mK'i.S'a. 

Here  follows  also  the  beginning  of  an  he- 
roic episile;*  but  you  mustiiive  me  leave  to 
tell  my  own  story  first,  because  historians 
dilTer.  Massinissa  v\'as  the  ?*on  of  Gala,  king 
of  the  Massyli;  and,  when  very  young  at  the 
head  of  his  father's  army,  gave  a  most  signal 
overthrow  to  Syphax,  king  of  the  Massaesy- 
iians,  then  an  ally  of  the  Ron:ians.  Soon 
after  Asdrubal,  son  of  Gisgothe  Carthaginian 
general,  gave  the  beautiful  Sophonisba,  his 

•  Egregiura  aecipio  promissi  munus  aruori',  &<>,    Soe  Peems. 


168  gray's  letters. 

daughter,  iA  marriage  to  the  young  prince. 
But  this  marriage  was  not  consummated  on 
acconnt  of  Massinissa's  being  obliged  to  has- 
ten into  Spain,  there  to  command  his  ilither's 
troops,  who  were  auxiliaries  of  the  Cartha- 
ginians. Their  affairs  at  this  time  began  to 
be  in  a  bad  condition;  and  they  thought  it 
might  be  greatly  for  their  interest,  if  they 
could  bring  over  Syphax  to  themselves. 
This  in  time  they  actually  effected;  and,  to 
strengthen  their  new  alliance,  commanded 
Asdrubal  to  give  his  daughter  to  Sj^phax. 
(It  is  probable  their  ingratitude  to  Massinis- 
i^a  arose  from  the  great  change  of  affairs, 
which  had  happened  among  the  Massylians 
during  his  absence;  for  his  father  and  uncle 
were  dead,  and  a  distant  relation  of  the  royal 
fimily  had  usurped  the  throne.)  Sophonisba 
was  accordingly  married  to  Syphax;  and 
Massinissa,  enraged  at  the  affront,  became  a 
friend  to  the  Romans.  They  drove  the 
Carthaginians  before  them  out  of  Spain,  and 
carried  the  war  into  Africa,  defeated  Syphax, 
and  took  him  prisoner;  upon  which  Cirtha 
(his  capital)  opened  her  gates  to  Lselius  and 
Massinissa.  The  Test  of  the  affair,  the  mar- 
}'iage,  and  the  sending  of  poison,  every  body 
knows.  This  is  partly  taken  fromLivy,  and 
partly  from  Appian. 


gray's  letters.  169 

Immediately  a^ter  writing  the  preceding  letter,  Mr  Gray  went 
upon  a  visit  to  his  i-elatiuns  at  Stoke  ;  where  he  writ  that  beauti- 
ful little  ofle  which  sta.ids  first  in  his  collection  of  poems.  He  sent 
it  as  soon  as  writen  to  his  beloved  friend  :  but  he  was  dead  before  it 
reached  Hertfordshire.  He  died  only  twentj-days  after  he  had 
writlon  the  letter  to  Mr.  Gray,  which  concluded  with  ''  Vale,  et 
vive  paulisper  cum  vivis." 


LIX. 

TO  DR.  WHARTON.* 

Cambridge,  Dec.  27, 1742. 

I  OU5HT  to  have  returned  you  my  thanks  a 
long  time  ago,  for  the  pleasure,  I  should  say 
prodigy,  of  your  letter;  for  such  a  thing  has 
not  happened  above  twice  within  this  last 
age  to  mortal  man,  and  no  one  here  can  con- 
ceive what  it  may  portend.  You  have  heard, 
I  suppose,  how  I  have  been  employed  a  part 
of  the  time;  how,  by  my  own  indetatigable 
application  for  these  ten  years  past,  and  by 
the  care  and  vigilance  of  that  worthy  magls- 

*  Of  Old-Park,  near  Durham,  With  this  gentleman  Mr.  Gray 
contracted  an  acquaintance  very  early  :  and  though  they  were  not 
educated  at  Eton,  yet  afterwards  at  Cambr'dge,  when  the  doctor 
was  fellow  of  Pembroke- Hall,  they  Ijecanie  intimate  friends,  and 
continued  so  to  the  time  of  Mr.  Gray's  death. 


170  gray's  letters. 

trate  the  ram  ia  bhie,*  (who,  I  assure  you, 
has  not  spared  his  labour, nor  could  have  done 
more  for  his  own  son)  i  am  got  half  way  to 
the  top  ofjorisprudence,tand  bid  as  fur  as  an- 
other bod^  to  open  a  case  of  impotence  with 
all  decency  and  circumspection.  You  see  my 
ambition,  1  do  not  doubt  but  some' thirty 
years  hence  I  shall  convince  the  world  and 
you  that  I  am  a  very  pretty  young  fellow;  and 
may  come  to  shine  in  a  profession,  perhaps 
the  noblest  of  all,  except  man-midwifery. 
As  for  yon,  if  your  distemper  and  you  can 
but  agree  about  i^oina:  to  London,  1  may  rea- 
sonably expect  in  a  much  shorter  time  to  see 
you  in  yonr  three-cornered  villa,  doing  the 
honours  (»f  a  'tvell  furnished  table  with  as 
much  dignity,  as  rich  a  mien,  and  as  capa- 
cious a  bi-dly,  as  Dr.  Mead.  Methinks  I  see 
Dr.  *  *,  at  the  lower  end  of  it,  lost  in  admi- 
ration of  your  goodly  person  and  parts, 
cramming  down  his  envy  (for  it  will  rise)  with 
the  wing  of  a  pheasant,  and  drowning  it  in 
neat  Burgundy.  But  not  to  tempt  your  asth- 
ma too  much  with  such  a  prospect,  1  should 
think  you   might  be  al'nost  as  happy  and  as 

*  A  servant  of  the  vice-chancellor's  for  the  time  heing,  usually 
known  by  the  name  of  Blue  Coat,  whose  business  it  is  to  attend 
acts  for  deg;r;-e-,  &c. 

f  i.e.  Bachelor  of  civil  law. 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  171 

great  as  this  even  in  the  country.  But  you 
know  best,  and  1  should  be  sorry  to  say  any 
thing  tiiat  mi^ht  stop  you  in  the  career  of 
glory;  far  be  it  from  me  to  hamper  the 
wheels  (if  your  gilded  chariot.  Go  on,  sir 
Thomas;  and  when  you  die,  (for  even  phy- 
sicians must  die)  may  the  faculty  in  War- 
wick lane  erect  }  our  statue  in  the  very  niche 
of  sir  John  Cutler's. 

I  was  going  to  tell  you  how  sorry  I  am  for 
your  illness,  but  1  hope  it  is  too  late  now:  I 
can  only  say  that  \  really  was  very  sorry. 
May  you  live  a  hundred  Christmasses,  and 
Crit  as  mativ  collars  of  brawn  stuck  with  rose- 
mary.    Adieu,  &c. 


LX. 

TO  DR.   WHARTON. 

Peterhouse,  April  26,  1744. 

You  write  so  feelingly  to  Mi.  Inovvn,  and 
represent  your  abandoned  condition  in  terms 
so  touching,  that  what  gratitude  could  not 
effect  in  several  months,  compassion  has 
brought  about  in  a  few  days;  and  broke  that 
strong  atti'Chnient,  or  rather  allegiance, 
which  I  and  all  here  owe  to  our  sovereign 


172  gray's  letters. 

lady  and  mistress,  the  president  of  presidents 
and  head  of  heads,  (if  I  may  be  permitted  to 
pronounce  her  name,  that  ineffable  Octo- 
grammaton)  the  power  of  Laziness.  You 
must  know  she  had  been  pleased  to  appoint 
me  (in  preference  to  so  many  old  servants 
of  hers  who  had  spent  their  whole  lives  in 
qualifying  themselves  -for  the  office)  grand 
picker  of  straws  and  push-pin  player  to  her 
supinity,  (for  that  is  her  title).  The  first  is 
much  in  the  nature  of  lord  president  of  the 
council;  and  the  other  like  the  groom-porter, 
only  without  the  profit;  but  as  they  are  both 
things  of  very  great  honour  in  this  country, 
I  consider  with  myself  the  load  of  envy  at- 
tending such  great  charges;  and  besides  (be- 
tween you  and  me)  I  found  myself  unable  to 
support  the  fatigue  of  keeping  up  the  ap- 
pearance that  persons  of  such  dignity  must 
do;  so  1  thought  proper  to  decline  it,  and 
excused  myself  as  well  a*s  I  could.  How^- 
ever,  as  you  see  such  an  affair. must  take  up 
a  good  deal  of  time,  and  it  has  always  been 
the  policy  of  this  court  to  proceed  slowly, 
like  the  Imperial  and  that  of  Spain,  in  the 
dispatch  of  business,  you  will  on  this  account 
the  easier  forgive  me,  if  1  have  not  answer- 
ed you  letter  before. 


17o 

You  desire  to  know,  it  seems,  what  cha- 
racter the  poem  of  vour  young  iViend  bears 
here.*  I  wonder  that  you  Ask  the  opinion 
of  a  nation,  where  tho>e,  who  pretend  to 
judge,  do  not  judge  at  all  ;  a-.d  the  rest  (the 
wiser  part)  wait  t)  catch  the  j^idginent  of 
the  world  immediately  above  them  ;  that 
is,  Dick's  and  the  rainbow  Coffee-houses. 
Your  readier  way  would  be  to  ask  the  ladies 
that  keep  the  bars  in  those  two  theatres  of 
criticism.  However,  to  show  you  that  i  am 
a  judge,  as  well  as  my  countrymen,  I  will 
tell  you,  though  I  have  rather  turned  it  over 
than  read  it  (but  no  matter  ;  no  more  have 
they),  that  it  seems  to  me  above  the  mid- 
dling ;  and  now  and  then,  for  a  little  while, 
rises  even  to  the  best,  particularly  in  de- 
scription. It  is  often  obscure,  and  even  un- 
intelligible ;  and  too  much  infected  with  the 
Hutchinson  jargon.  In  short,  its  great  fault 
is,  that  it  was  published  at  least  nine  years 
too  early.  And  so  methinks  in  a  few  words, 
"  a  la  mode  du  Temple,"  1  have  very  pert- 

*  Pleasures  of  the  Imagination :— From  the  posthumous  publica- 
tion of  Dr.  Akeiiside's  Poems,  it  should  seem  that  the  author  had 
vei-y  much  the  same  opinion  aftervards  of  his  own  work,  which 
Mr.  Gray  here  expresses  :  since  he  und:rtook  a  reforni  of  it,  which 
must  have  given  him,  had  he  concluded  it,  as  much  trouble  as  if 
he  had  written  it  entirely  new. 


174 

ly  disptitched  what  perhaps  may  for  several 
years  have  employed  a  very  ingenious  man 
worth  fifty  of  myself- 

You  are  much  in  the  right  to  have  a  taste 
for  Socrates  ;  he  was  a  divine  man.  I  must 
tell  )^ou,  by  way  of  news  of  the  place,  that 
the  other  day  a  certain  new  professor  made 
an  apology  for  him  an  hour  long  in  the 
schools;  and  all  the  world  brought  in  Socrates 
guilty,  except  the  people  of  his  own  college. 

The  muse  is  gone,  and  left  me  in  far 
worse  company  ;  if  she  returns,  you  will 
hear  of  her.  As  to  her  child*  (since  you 
are  so  good  as  to  inquire  after  it)  it  is  but  a 
puling  chit  yet,  not  a  bit  grown  to  speak  of; 
I  believe,  poor  thing,  it  has  got  the  worms, 
that  will  carry  it  off  at  last.  Mr.  TroUope 
and  1  are  in  a  course  of  tar-water  ;  he  for 
his  present,  and  1  for  my  future  distempers. 
If  you  think  it  will  kill  me,  send  away  a  man 
and  horse  directly  ;  for  I  drink  like  a  fish. 

LXI. 

TO    MR.    W^ALPOLE. 

Cambridge,  Feb.  3, 1746. 

You  are  so  good  to  inquire   after  my   usual 

*  His  poem  "  De  Principiis  Cogitandi.** 


gray's  letters.  175 

time  of  coming  to  town  :  it  is  at  a  season 
when  even  you,  the  perpetual  friend  of 
London,  will,  I  fear,  hardly  be  in  it — the 
middle  of  June  :  and  I  commonly  return 
hither  in  September  ;  a  month  when  1  may 
more  probably  find  you  at  home. 

Our  defeat  to  be  sure  is  a  rueful  affair, 
for  the  honour  ot  the  troops  ;  but  the  duke 
is  gone  it  seems  with  the  rapidity  of  a  can- 
non-bullet to  undefeat  us  again.  The  com- 
mon people  in  town  at  ^east  know  how  to  be 
afraid  :  but  we  are  such  uncommon  people 
here  as  to  have  no  more  sense  of  danger, 
than  if  the  battle  had  been  fought  when  and 
where  the  battle  of  Cannae  was.  The  percep- 
tion of  these  calamities  and^f  their  consequen- 
ces, that  we  are  supposed  to  get  from  books, 
is  so  faintly  impressed,  that  we  talk  of  war, 
fanine,  and  pestilence,  with  no  more  appre- 
hension than  of  a  broken  head,  or  of  a  coach 
overturned  between  York  and  Edinburgh.  I 
heard  three  people,  sensible  middle-aged 
men  (when  the  Scotch  were  said  to  be  at 
Stamford,  and  actually  were  at  Derby),  talk- 
ing of  hiring  a  chaise  to  go  to  Caxton  (a 
place  in  the  high  road,  to  see  the  Pretender 
and  the  highlanders  as  they  passed. 

I  can  say  no  more  for  Mr.  Pope  (for  what 
you  keep  in  reserve  may  be  worse  than  all 


176 

the  rest).  It  is  natural  to  wish  the  finest 
writer,  one  of  them,  we  ever  had,  should  be 
an  honest  man.  It  is  for  the  interest  even  of 
that  virtue,  whose  friend  he  professed  him- 
self, and  whose  beauties  he  sung,  that  he 
should  not  be  found  a  dirty  animal.  But, 
however,  this  is  Mr.  Warburton's  business, 
not  mine,  who  may  scribble  his  pen  to  the 
stumps  and  all  in  vain,  if  these  facts  are  so. 
It  is  not  from  what  he  told  me  about  himself 
that  I  thought  well  of  him,  but  from  a  hu- 
manity and  goodness  of  heart,  ay,  and  great- 
ness of  mind,  that  runs  through  his  private 
correspondence,  not  less  apparent  than  are  a 
thousand  little  vanities  and  weaknesses  mix- 
ed with  those  good  <pjalities;  for  nobody  ever 
took  him  for  a  philosopher. 

If  you  know  any  thing  of  Mr.  Mann's 
state  of  health  and  happiness,  or  the  mo- 
tions of  Mr.  Chute  homewards,  it  will  be 
u  particular  favour  to  inform  me  of  them, 
as  I  have  not  heard  this  half-j^ear  from  them. 


LXII. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Cambridge,  December  11, 1746. 

I  WOULD  make  you  an  excuse  (as  indeed  I 


GRAY  6   LETTEili. 


ought),  if  iHey  were  a  sort  of  thing  I  ever 
gave  any  credit  to  myself  in  these  cases;  but 
I  know  tliey  are  never  true.  Nothing  so 
silly  as  indolence  when  it  hopes  to  disguise 
itself;  every  one  knows  it  hy  its  saunter,  as 
they  do  his  majesty  (God  bless  him)  at  a 
masquerade,  by  the  tirmness  of  his  tread 
and  the  elevation  of  his  chin.  However, 
somewhat  I  had  to  say  that  Ins  a  little  sha- 
dovy  of  reason  in  it.  I  have  been  in  town 
(I  suppose  you  know)  flaunting  about  at  all 
kind  of  public  places  with  two  friends  latel}'' 
returned  from  abroad.  The  world  itself 
has  some  attractions  in  it  to  a  solitary  of 
six  years'  standing:  and  agreeable  well-mean- 
ing people  of  sense  (thank  heaven  there 
are  so  few  of  them)  are  my  peculiar  magnet. 
h  is  no  wonder  then  if  I  felt  some  reluctance 
t  parting  with  them  so  soon;  or  if  my  spi- 
i  its,  when  I  returned  back  to  my  cell,  should 
sink  for  a  time,  not  indeed  to  storm  and  tem- 
pest, but  a  good  deal  below  changeable.  Be- 
sides, Seneca  sa3's  (and  my  pitch  of  philoso- 
phy does  not  pretend  to  be  much  above 
Seneca),  "Nunquam  mores,  quos  extuli,  re- 
fero.  Aliquid  ex  eo  q-iod  composui,  turba- 
tur:  aliquid  ex  his,  quee  fugavi,  redit."  And 
it  will  happen  to  such  as  us,  mere  imps  of 
VOL.   iv,  ~      12 


17S  gray's  letters. 

Science.    Well  it  may,  when  Wisdom  her- 
self is  forced  often 

In  sweet  retired  solitude 
fo  plume  bar  feathers,  and  let  grow  her  wings, 
That  in  the  various  bustle  of  resort. 
Were  all  too  ruffled,  and  sometimes  impair'd. 

It  is  a  foolish  thing  that  without  money 
one  cannot  either  live  as  one  pleases,  or 
where  and  with  whom  one  pleases.  Swift 
somewhere  saj^s,  that  money  is  liberty;  and 
I  fear  money  is  friendship  too  and  society, 
and  almost  every  external  blessing.  It  is  a 
great,  though  an  ill-natured,  comfort,  to  see 
most  of  those  who  have  it  in  plenty,  with- 
out pleasure,  without  liberty,  and  without 
friends, 

I  am  not  altogether  of  your  opinion  as  to 
your  historical  consolation  in  time  of  trouble: 
a  calm  melancholy  it  may  produce,  a  stiller 
sort  of  despair)  and  that  only  in  some  cir- 
cumstances, and  on  some  constitutions);  but 
I  doubt  no  real  comfort  or  content  can  ever 
arise  in  the  human  mind,  but  from  hope. 

I  take  it  very  ill  you  should  have  been  in 
the  twentieth  year  of  the  war,*  and  yet  say 
nothing  of  the  retreat  before  Syracuse:  is  it, 

•Thneydides,  l.Tii. 


gray's  i^etters.  179 

or  is  it  not,  the  finest  thing  you  ever  read  in 
your  life?  And  how  does  Xenophon  or  Plu- 
tarch agree  with  you?  For  my  part  I  read 
Aristotle,  his  poetics,  politics,  and  morals; 
though  I  do  not  well  know  which  is  which. 
In  the  first  place,  he  is  the  hardest  author 
by  far  I  ever  meddled  with.  Then  he  has  u 
dry  conciseness  that  makes  one  imagine  one 
is  perusing  a  table  of  contents  rather  than  a 
book:  it  tastes  for  all  the  world  like  chopped 
hay,  or  rather  like  chopped  logic;  for  he 
has  a  violent  affection  to  that  art,  being  in 
some  sort  his  own  invention;  so  that  he 
often  loses  himself  in  little  trifling  distinc- 
tions and  verbal  niceties;  and,  what  is  worse, 
leaves  you  to  extricate  him  as  well  as  you 
can.  Thirdly,  he  has  suffered  vastly  from 
the  transcribblers,  as  all  authors  of  great 
brevity  necessarily  must.  Fourthly  and 
lastly,  he  has  abundance  of  fine  uncommon 
things,  which  make  him  well  worth  the  pains 
he  gives  one.  You  see  what  you  are  to  ex- 
pect from  him. 


180  gray's  letters. 

LXIII. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Januaiy,  1747. 

It  is  doubtless  an  encouragement  to  continue 
writing  to  jou,  when  you  tell  me  you  answer 
me  with  pleasure:  I  have  another  reason 
which  would  make  me  very  copious,  had  I 
any  thing  to  say:  it  is,  that  I  write  to  you 
with  equal  pleasure,  though  not  with  equal 
spirits,  nor  with  like  plenty  of  materials: 
please  to  subtract  then  so  much  for  spirit, 
and  so  much  for  matter;  and  you  will  find 
me,  I  hope,  neither  so  slow,  nor  so  short,  as 
I  might  otherwise  seem.  Besides,  I  had  a 
mind  to  send  you  the  remainder  of  Agrip- 
pina,  that  was  lost  in  a  wilderness  of  papers. 
Certainly  you  do  her  too  much  honour;  she 
seemed  to  me  to  talk  like  an  Oldboy.,  all  in 
figures  and  mere  poetry,  instead  of  nature 
and  the  language  of  real  passion.     Do  you 

remember  Approchez-vous^^  Neron. Who 

would  not  rather  have  thought  of  that  half 
line  than  all  Mr.  Rowe's  llowers  of  elo- 
quence,?    However,  you  will   find   the   re- 

*  Agrippjna,  in  Racine's  tragedy  of  BritannicuSt    B. 


gray's  letters.  181 

raainder  here  at  the  end  in  an  outrageous 
long  speech:  it  was  begun  about  four  years 
ago  (it  is  a  misfortune  you  know  my  age, 
else  I  might  have  added,  when  I  was  very 
young.)  Poor  AVest  put  a  stop  to  that  tragic 
torrent  he  saw  breaking  in  upon  him: — have 
a  care,  I  warn  you,  not  to  set  open  the  flood- 
gate again,  lest  it  drown  you  and  me  and  the 
bishop  and  all. 

I  am  ver}^  sorry  to  hear  you  tr<»at  philoso- 
phy and  her  followers  like  a  parcel  of  monks 
and  hermits,  and  think  myself  obliged  to 
vindicate  a  profession  1  honour,  bien  que  je 
n'en  tienne  pas  boutique  (as  Madame  Sevignc 
says).  The  first  man  that  ever  bore  the 
name,  if  you  remember,  used  to  sa)^  that 
life  was  like  the  Olympic  games  (the  great- 
est public  assembly  of  his  age  and  country), 
where  some  came  to  show  their  strength  and 
agility  of  body,  as  the  champions;  others,  as 
the  musicians,  orators,  poets,  and  historians, 
to  show  their  excellence  in  those  arts;  the 
traders,  to  get  money;  and  the  better  sor(,  to 
enjoy  the  spectacle,  and  judge  of  all  these. 
They  did  not  then  run  away  from  society 
for  fear  of  its  temptations:  they  passed  their 
days  in  the  midst  of  it:  conversation  was 
their  business:  they  cultivated  the  arts  of 
persuasion,  on  purpose  to  show  men  it  wa^ 


102  gray's  letters. 

their  interest,  as  well  as  their  duty,  not  to  be 
foolish,  and  false,  and  unjust;  and  that  too 
in  many  instances  with  success:  which  is  not 
very  strange;  for  they  showed  by  their  life 
that  their  lessons  were  not  impracticable; 
and  that  pleasures  were  no  temptations,  but 
to  such  as  wanted  a  clear  perception  of  the 
pains  annexed  to  them.*  But  I  have  done 
speaking  a  la  Grecque.  Mr.  RatcHffej  made 
a  shift  to. behave  very  rationally  without 
their  instructions,  at  a  season  which  they  took 
a  great  deal  of  pains  to  fortify  themselves 
and  others  against:  one  would  not  desire  to 
lose  one's  head  with  a  better  grace.  I 
am  particularly  satisfied  with  the  humanity 
of  that  last  embrace  to  all  the  people 
about  him.  Sure  it  must  be  somewhat  em- 
barrassing to  die  before  so  much  good  com- 
pany! 

You  need  not  fear  but  posterity  will  be 

*  Never  perhaps  was  a  more  admirable  picture  drawn  of  true 
philosophy  and  its  real  and  important  sei-vjces  ;  servic«^s  not  con- 
linal  to  the  speculative  opinions  of  the  studious,  but  adapted  t« 
the  common  puiposes  of  life,  and  promoting  the  general  happi- 
ness  of  mankind  ;  not  upon  the  chimerical  basis  of  a  system,  but 
on  the  immutable  foundations  of  truth  and  virtue.    B.  ' 

t  Brother  to  the  earl  of  Derwentwater.  He  was  executed  at  Ty- 
burn, December,  1746,  for  having  been  concerned  in  the  febellioM 
in  Scotland.    B. 


gray's  letters.  183 

ever  glad  to  know  the  absurdity  of  their  an- 
cestors: the  foolish  will  be  glad  to  know 
they  were  as  foolish  as  they,  and  the  wise 
will  be  glad  to  find  themselves  wiser.  You 
will  please  all  the  world  then;  and  if  you 
recount  miracles  you  will  be  believed  so 
much  the  sooner.  We  are  pleased  when 
we  wonder;  and  we  believe  because  we 
are  pleased.  Folly  and  wisdom,  and  wonder 
and  pleasure,  join  with  me  in  desiring  you 
would  continue  to  entertain  them:  refuse  us. 
if  you  can.     Adieu,  dear  sirl 


LXIV. 


X  TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Cambridge,  1747. 

I  HAD  been  absent  from  this  place  a  feu 
days,  and  at  my  return  found  Gibber's  book* 
upon  my  table:  I  return  you  my  thanks  for 
it,  and  have  already  run  over  a  considera- 
ble part,  for  who  could  resist  Mrs.  Letitia 
Pilkington's  recommendation?     (By  the  way, 

*  Entitled  "  Observations  on  Cicero's  Character,"  or  some  such 
thing :  for  I  hare  n«t  the  book  by  me,  and  it  has  been  Ion?;  since 
forget. 


184  GPtAY's    LETTERS. 

is  there  any  such  gentlewoman?*  or  has 
somebody  put  on  the  style  of  a  scribbling 
u'onjan's  panegyric  to  deceive  and  laugh  at 
Colley?)  He  seems  to  me  full  as  pert  and 
as  dull  as  usual.  There  are  whole  pages  of 
common-place  stuff,  that  for  stupidity  might 
have  been  wrote  by  Dr.  Waterland,  or  any 
other  grave  divine,  did  not  the  flirting  saucy 
phrase  give  them  at  a  distance  an  air  of  youth 
and  gayety.  It  is  very  true,  he  is  often  in  the 
right  ivith  regard  to  TuUy's  weaknesses; 
but  was  there  an}'  one  that  did  not  see  them? 
Those,  I  imagine,  that  would  find  a  man  after 
God's  own  heart,  are  no  more  likely  to  trus 
the  doctor's  recommendation  than  the  play 
er's  ;  and  as  to  reason  and  truth,  would  they 
know  their  own  faces,  do  you  think,  if  they 
looked  in  the  glass,  and  saw  themselves  so 
bedizzened  in  tattered  fringe  and  tarnished 
lace,  in  French  jewels,  and  dirty  furbelows, 
the  frippery  of  a  stroHcr's  wardrobe? 

Literature,  to  take  it  in  its  most  compre- 
liensive  sense,  and  include  every  Jhing  that 
requires  invention  or  judgment,  or  barelj^ 
application  and  industry,  seems  indeed  draw- 
ing apace  to  its   dissolution,  and  remarkably 

*  This  lady  inad<>  herself  aiore  known  some  tii«c  after  the  date 
»r  this  Jv^ter. 


gray's  letters.  18o 

since  the  beginning  of  the  war.  I  remember 
to  have  read  Mr.  Spence's  pretty  book: 
though  (as  he  then  had  not  been  at  Rome 
for  the  last  time)  it  must  have  increased 
greatly  since  that  in  bulk.  If  you  ask  me 
what  I  read,  I  protest  1  do  not  recollect  one 
syllable;  but  only  in  general,  that  they  were 
the  best  bred  sort  of  men  in  the  world,  just 
the  kind  off  rinds  one  would  wish  to  meet  in 
a  fine  summer's  evening,  if  one  wished  to 
meet  jyiy  at  all.  The  heads  and  tails  of  the 
dialogues,  published  separate  in  16mo.  would 
make  the  sweetest  reading  in  natiur  for 
young  gentlemen  of  family  and  fortune,  that 
are  learning  to  dance.*  I  rejoice  to  hear 
there  is  such  a  crowd  of  dramatical  perform- 
ances coming  upon  the  stage.  Agrippina  can 
stay  very  well,  she  thanks  you,  and  be 
damned  at  leisure:  I  hope  in  God  you  have  not 
mentioned,  or  showed  to  any  body  that  scene 
(for,  trusting  in  its  badness,  I  forgot  to  cau- 
tion you  concerning  it);  but  I  heard  the 
other  day,  that  I  was  writing  a  play,,and  was 
told  the  name  of  it,  which  nobody  here  could 

*  This  ridicule  on  the  Platonic  way  of  dialogue  (as  it  was  aim- 
ed to  be,  though  nothing  less  restmbles  it)  is,  in  my  opinion,  ad  " 
jniraljle.  Lord  Shaftsbury  was  the  first  who  brought  it  into 
vogue,  and  Mr.  Spence,  (if  we  except  a  few  Scotch  writers)  the 
Ya^x  who  practised  it. 


186  gray's  letters.     > 

know,  I  am  sure.  The  employment  you 
propose  to  me  much  better  suits  my  inclina- 
tion; but  I  much  fear  our  joint  stock  would 
hardly  compose  a  small  volume;  what  I 
have  is  less  considerable  than  you  would 
imagine,  and  of  that  little  we  should  not  be 
willing  to  publish  all  *     *  *  * 

This  is  all  I  can  any  where  find.  You,  I 
imagine,  may  have  a  good  deal  more.  I 
should  not  care  how  unwise  the  ordinary  run 
of  readers  might  think  my  affection  for  him, 
provided  those  few,  that  ever  loved  any 
body,  or  judged  of  any  thing  rightly,  might, 
from  such  little  remains,  be  moved  to  con- 
sider what  he  vvould  have  been;  and  to  wish 
that  Heaven  had  granted  him  a  longer  life 
and  a  mind  more  at  ease. 

I  send  you  a  few  hne»,  though  Latin, 
which  you  do  not  like,  for  the  sake  of  the 
subject;  it  makes  part  of  a  large  design,  and 
i«  the  beginning  of  the  fourth  book,    which 

•  what  is  here  omitted  was  a  short  catalogue  of  Mr.  West's  po- 
etry then  in  Mr.  Gray's  hands;  the  reader  has  seen  as  much  of  it 
as  I  am  persuaded  his  frier.d  would  have  published,  had  he  prose- 
cuted the  task  which  Mr.  Walpole  recommended  to  him,  that  of 
printing  his  own  and  Mr.  West's  poem*  in  the  same  volume  :  and 
■which  we  alio  pergeive  from  tliis  letter  he  was  not  averse  from 
doing. 


gray's  letters.  187 

was  intended  to  treat  of  the  passions.  Ex- 
cuse^the  three  tirst  verses;  you  know  vanity, 
with  the  Romans,  is  a  poetical  licence. 


LXV. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Cambridge,  1747. 

I  HAVE  abundance  of  thaniis  to  return  you 
for  the  entertainment  Mr.  Spence's  book 
has  given  me,  which  I  have  almost  run 
over  already;  and  I  much  fear  (see  what  it  is 
to  make  a  figure!)  the  breadth  of  the  margin, 
and  the  neatness  of  the  prints,  which  are 
better  done  than  one  could  expect,  have 
prevailed  upon  me  to  like  it  far  better  than  I 
did  in  manuscript,  for^  I  think  it  is  not  the  very 
genteel  deportment  of  Polymetis,  nor  the 
lively  wit  of  Mysagetes,  that  have  at  all  cor- 
rupted me. 

There  is  one  fundamental  fault,  from 
whence  most  of  the  little  faults  throughout 
the  whole  arise.  He  professes  to  neglect 
the  Greek  writers,  who  could  have  given 
him  more  instruction  on  the  very  heads  he 
professes  to  treat,  than  all  the  others  put 
together.       Who  does  not  know,  that  upon 


188  gray's  letters. 

the  Latin,  the  Sabine,  and  Hetniscan  my- 
thology (which  probably  might  themselves, 
at  a  remoter  period  of  time,  owe  their  ori- 
gin to  Greece  too)  the  Romans  engrafted  al- 
most the  wliole  religion  of  Greece  to  make 
what  is  called  their  own?  It  would  be  hard 
to  find  any  one  circumstance  that  is  properly 
of  their  invention.  In  the  ruder  days  of  the 
republic,  the  picturesque  part  of  their  reli- 
gion (which  is  the  province  he  has  chose, 
and  would  be  thought  to  confine  himself  to) 
was  probably  borrowed  entirely  from  the 
Tuscans,  who,  as  a  wealthy  and  trading  peo- 
ple, may  be  well  supposed,  and  indeed  arc 
known,  to  have  had  the  arts  flourishing  in  a 
considerable  degree  among  them.  What 
could  inform  him  here,  but  Dio,  Halicarnas- 
sus  (who  expressly  treats  of  those  times  with 
great  curiosity  and  industry)  and  the  remains 
of  the  first  Roman  writers?  The  former  he  has 
neglected  as  a  Greek;  and  the  latter,  he  says, 
were  but  little  acquainted  with  the  arts,  and 
consequently  are  but  of  small  authority.  In 
the  better  ages,  when  every  temple  ami 
public  building  in  Rome  was  peopled  with 
imported  deities  and  heroes,  and  when  all 
Jhe  artists  of  reputation  they  made  use  of 
were  Greeks,  what  wonder,  if  their  eyes 
grew  familiarized  to  Grecian  forms  and  hab- 


oray's  letters.  189 

its  (especially  in  a  matter  of  this  kind,  where 
so  much  depends  upon  the  imagination);  and 
if  those  figures  introduced  with  them  a  belief 
of  such  fables,  as  first  gave  them  being,  and 
dressed  them  ont  in  their  various  attributes, 
it  was  natural  then,  and  (I  should  think) 
necessary,  to  go  to  the  source  itself,  the 
Greek  accounts  of  their  own  religion;  but, 
to  say  the  truth,  I  suspect  he  was  little  con- 
versant in  those  books  and  that  language; 
for  he  rarely  quotes  any  but  Lucian,  an  au- 
thor that  falls  in  every  body's  way,  and  who 
lived  at  the  very  extremity  of  that  period 
hs  has  set  to  his  inquiries,  later  than  any  of 
the  poets  he  has  meddled  with,  and  for  that 
reason  ought  to  have  been  regarded  as  but 
an  indifferent  authority;  especially  being  a 
Syrian  too.  His  book  (as  he  says  himself) 
is,  I  think,  rather  a  beginning  than  a  perfect 
work;  but  a  beginning  at  the  wrong  end:  for 
if  any  body  should  finish  it  by  inquiring  into 
the  Greek  mythology,  as  he  proposes,  it  will 
be  necessary  to  read  it  backward. 

There  are  several  little  neglects,  that  one 
might  have  told  him  of,  which  I  noted  in 
reading  it  hastily;  as  page  311,  a  discourse 
about  orange  trees,  occasioned  by  Virgil's 
"inter  odoratum  lanri  nemus,"  where  he 
fancies  the  Roman  Laurus  to  be  our  Laurel; 


190  gray's  letters. 

though  undoubtedly  the  bay-tree,  which  is 
odoratum,  and,  I  believe,  still  called  Lauro, 
or  AUoro,  at  Rome;  and  that  the  "Malum. 
Medicujn"  in  the  Georgic  is  the  orange; 
though  Theophrastus,  whence  Virgil  bor- 
rowed it,  or  even  Pliny,  whom  he  himself 
quotes,  might  convince  him  it  is  the  cedrato 
which  lie  has  often  tasted  at  Florence.  Page 
144  is  an  account  of  Domenichino's  Cardinal 
Virtues,  and  a  fling  at  the  Jesuits,  neither  of 
which  belong  to  them:  the  painting  is  in  a 
church  of  the  Barnabiti,  dedicated  to  St.  Carlo 
Borromeo,  whose  motto  is  Humilitas.  Page 
131 ,  in  a  note,  he  says,  the  old  Romans  did  not 
regard  Fortune  as  a  deity;  though  Servius 
Tullius  (whom  she  was  said  to  be  in  love 
with;  nay,  there  was  actually  an  affair  be- 
tween them)  founded  her  temple  in  Foro  Bo- 
ario.  By  the  way,  her  worship  was  Greek,  and 
this  king  was  educated  in  the  family  of  Tar- 
quinius  Priscus,  whose  father  was  a  Corin- 
thian; so  it  is  easy  to  conceive  how  early 
the  religion  of  Rome  might  be  Eoixed  with 
that  of  Greece,  &;c.  &c. 

Dr.  Middleton  has  sent  me  to-day  a  book 
on  the  Roman  Senate^  the  substance  of  a  dis- 
pute between  lord  Hervey  and  him,  though 
it  never  interrupted  their  friendship,  he 
says,  and  I  dare  say  not. 


gray's  letters.  191 

LXVI. 

TO  MR.  WALPOLE. 

Cambridge,  March  1, 1747. 

As    one  ought    to   be   particularly    careful 
to  avoid  blunders  in  a  compliment  of  condo- 
lence, it  would  be  a  sensible  satisfaction  to 
me  (before  I  testify  my  sorrow,  and  the  sin- 
cere part  I  take  in  your  misfortune)  to  know 
for   certain,  who  it  is  I  lament.      I   knew^ 
Zara  and  Selima,  (Selima,  was  it,  or  Fatima?) 
or  rather  I  knew  them  both  together;  for  I 
cannot  justly  say  which  was  which. — Then 
as  to  your  handsome  cat,  the  name  you  dis- 
tinguish her  by,  I  am  no  less  at  a  loss,  as 
well  knowing  one's  handsome  cat  is  always 
the  cat  one  hkes  best;  or,  if  one  be  ahve  and 
the  other  dead,  it  is  usually  the  latter  that  is 
the  handsomest.     Besides,  if  the  point  were 
never  so  clear,  I  hope  you  do  not  think  me 
so  ill-bred  or  so  imprudent  as  to  forfeit  all 
my  interest  in  the  survivor:  Oh  no!  1  would 
jrather  seem  to  mistake,  and  imagine  to  be 
sure  it  must  be  the  tabby  one  that  had  met 
with  this  sad  accident.     Till  this  affair  is  a 
little  better  determined,  you  will  excuse  me 
if  I  do  not  begin  to  cry; 


192  gray's  letter?.- 

"  Tempus  inane  peto,  requiem,  spatiumque  doloris." 

Which  interval  is  the  more  convenient,  as  it 
gives  time  to  rejoice  with  you  on  your  new- 
honours.*  This  is  only  a  beginning  ;  I 
reckon  next  week  we  shall  hear  you  are  a 
free-mason,  or  a  gormogon  at  least. — Heigh 
hoi  I  feel  (as  you  to  be  sure  have  done  long 
since)  that  I  have  very  little  to  say,  at  least 
in  prose.  Somebody  will  be  the  better  for  it; 
I  do  not  mean  you,  but  your  cat,  feue  made- 
moiselle Selime,  whom  I  am  about  to  immor- 
talize for  one  week  or  fortnight,  as  follows:! 
*  *  *— There's  a  poem  for  you;  it  is  rather 
too  long  for  an  epitaph. 

LXVII. 

TO  DR.    WHARTON. 

Stoke,  June  5,1748, 

Your  friendship  has  interested  itself  in  my 

•  Mr.  Walpole  was  about  lliis  time  elected  a  Fellow  of  the  Rcyal 
Society. 

t  The  reader  need  hardly  be  told,?that  the  4th  ode  in  the  collec- 
tion of  bis  |)oems  was  inserted  in  the  place  of  these  asterisks.  This 
letter  (as  some  other  slight  ones  have  been)  is  piiiited  chiefly  to 
ra«rk  the  date  of  one  cf  his  compositions. 


gray's  letters.  193 

aflairs  so  nfiturally,  that  I  cannot  help  troub- 
ling you  a  little  with  a  detail  of  them. 
vf*-**^*****  ^^f\  now,  my  dear  Whar- 
ton, why  must  I  tell  you  a  thing  so  contrary 
to  my  own  wishes  and  yours?  I  believe  it  is 
impossible  for  me  to  see  you  in  the  north, 
or  to  enjoy  any  of  those  agreeable  hours  I 
had  flattered  myself  with.  This  business 
will  oblige  me  to  be  in  town  several  times 
during  the  summer,  particularly  in  August, 
when  half  the  money  is  to  be  paid;  besides 
the  good  people  here  would  think  me  the 
most  careless  and  ruinous  of  mortals,  if  I 
should  take  such  a  journey  at  this  time.  The 
only  satisfaction  I  can  pretend  to,  is  that  of 
hearing  from  you,  and  particularly  at  this 
time  when  I  was  bid  to  expect  the  good  news 
of  an  increase  of  your  family.  Your  opin- 
ion of  Diodorus  is  doubtless  right;  but  there 
are  things  in  him  very  curious,  got  out  of 
better  authorities  now  lost.  Do  )'ou  remem- 
ber the  Egyptian  history,  and  particularly 
the  account  of  the  gold  mines  ?  My  own 
readings    have    been    cruelly   interrupted  : 

*  The  paragraph  here  omitted  contained  an  account  of  Mi*. 
Gray's  loss  of  a  house  by  fire  in  Cornhill,  and  the  ixpense  he  should 
be  at  ia  rebuilding  it.  Though  it  wasf  insured,  he  could  at  thi* 
time  ill  bear  to  lay  out  the  additional  suru  necessary  for  the  pur- 
pose. 

VOL.    IV,  13 


194  gray's  letters. 

What  I  have  been  highly  pleased  with,  is 
the  new  comedy  from  Paris  by  Gresset, 
called  le  Mechant;  if  you  have  it  not,  buy 
his  works  all  together  in  two  little  volumes  : 
they  are  collected  by  the  Dutch  booksellers, 
and  consequently  contain  some  trash;  but 
then  there  are  the  Ververt,  the  epistle  to 
P.  Bougeant,  the  Chartreuse,  that  to  his  sis- 
ter, an  ode  on  his  country,- and  another  on 
mediocrity,  and  the  Sidnei,  another  comedy, 
all  which  have  great  beauties.  There  is 
also  a  poem  lately  published  by  Thomson, 
called  the  Castle  of  Indolence,  with  some 
good  stanzas  in  it.  Mr.  Mason  is  my  ac- 
quaintance; I  liked  that  ode*  much,  but 
have  found   no  one  else  that  did.     He  has 

•  Ode  to  a  Water  Nymph,  ijublished  about  this  time  in  Dodsley's 
miscellany.  On  reading  what  follows,  many  readers,  I  suspect,  will 
think  me  as  simple  as  ever,  in  forbearing  to  expunge  the  para- 
graph: but  as  I  publish  Mr.  Gray  s  sentiments  of  authors,  as  well 
living  as  dead,  without  reserve,  I  should  do  them  injustice,  if  I 
was  more  scrupulous  with  respect  to  myself.  My  friends,  I  am 
sure,  will  be  much  amused  with  tliis  and  another  passage  hereafter 
of  a  like  sort.  My  enemies,  if  they  please,  may  sneer  at  it ;  and 
.say  (which  they  will  very  truly)  that  twenty-five  yeais  have  made  a 
▼ery  considei-able  abatement  in  my  general  philanthropy.  Meu  of  the 
world  will  not  blame  me  for  writing  from  so  prudent  a  motive,  as 
that  of  making  my  fortune  by  it ;  and  yet  the  truth,  I  believe,  at 
the  time  was,  that  I  was  perfectly  well  satisfied,  if  my  publications, 
rijmisbed  me  with  a  few  guineas  to  see  a  play  v  an  opera. 


gray's  letters.  195 

much  fancy,  little  judgment,  and  a  good  deal 
of  modest}';  J  take  him  for  a  good  and  well- 
meaning  creature;  but  then  he  is  really  in 
simplicity  a  child,  and  loves  every  body  he 
meets  with:  he  reads  little  or  nothing;  writes 
abundance,  and  that  with  a  design  to  make 
his  fortune  by  it.  My  best  compliments  to 
Mrs.  Wharton  and  your  family:  does  that 
name  include  any  body  I  am  not  yet  ac- 
quainted with  ? 


^  LXVIII, 

TO  DR.  WHARTON. 

Stoke,  August  19,  1748: 

I  AM  glad  you  have  had  any  pleasure  in 
Gresset;  he  seems  to  me  a  truly  elegant  and 
charming  writer;  the  Mechant  is  the  best 
comedy  I  ever  read;  his  Edward  I  could 
scarce  get  through;  it  is  puerile;  though 
there  are  good  lines,  such  as  this  for  exam- 
ple: 

"  Le  jour  d'un  Douveau  regne  est  le  jour  des  ingrats.'* 

But  good  lines  will  make  any  thing  rather 
than  a  good  play:  however  you  are  to  con- 


196  gray's  letters. 

sider  this  as  a  collection  made  up  by  the 
Dutch  booksellers;  many  things  unfinished, 
or  written  in  his  youth,  or  designed  not  for 
the  world,  but  to  make  his  friends  laugh,  as 
the  Liitrin  vivant,  &c.  There  are  two  noble 
lines,  which,  as  they  are  in  the  middle  of  an 
ode  to  the  king,  may  perhaps  have  escaped 
you: 

"  Le  cri  d'un  peuple  heureux  est  la  seule  eloquence 
"  Qui  scait  parler  des  Rois." 

Which  is  very  true,  and  should  have  been  a 
hint  to  himself  not  to  write  odes  to  the  king 
at  all. 

As  I  have  nothing  more  to  say  at  present, 
I  fill  my  paper  with  the  beginning  of  an  es- 
say; what  name  to  give  it  1  know  not;  but 
the  subject  is  the  alliance  of  Education  and 
Government:*  1  mean  to  show  that  they 
miist  both  concur  to  produce  great  and  use- 
ful men.  I  desire  your  judgment  upon  it 
before  I  proceed  any  further. 

*  See  Poems. 


gray's  letters.  197 


LXIX. 


TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Cambridge,  March  9,  1748-9. 

You  ask  for  some  account  of  books.  The 
principal  I  can  tell  you  of  is  a  work  of  the 
President  Montesquieu,  the  labour  of  twenty 
years;  it  is  called  L'Esprit  des  Loix,  2  vols. 
4to.  printed  at  Geneva.  He  lays  down  the 
principles  on  which  are  founded  the  three 
sorts  of  government,  despotism,  the  limited 
monarchy,  and  the  republican;  and  shows 
how  from  these  are  deduced  the  laws  and 
customs  by  which  they  are  guided  and  main- 
tained; the  education  proper  to  each  form; 
the  influence  of  climate,  situation,  religion, 
&c.  on  the  minds  of  particular  nations  and 
on  their  policy.  The  subject,  you  see,  is 
as  extensive  as  mankind;  the  thoughts  per- 
fectly new,  generally  admirable  as  they  are 
just,  sometimes  a  little  too  refined.  In 
short,  there  are  faults,  but  such  as  an  ordi- 
nary man  could  never  have  committed. 
The  style  very  lively  and  concise  (conse- 
quently sometimes  obscure);  it  is  the  gravity 
of  Tacitus,  whom  he  admires,  tempered  with 
the  gayety  and  fire  of  a  Frenchman,     The 


198  gray's  letters. 

time  of  night  will  not  suffer  me  to  go  on: 
but  I  will  write  again  in  a  week. 


LXX. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Cambridge,  April  25,  1749. 

I  PERCEIVE  that  second  parts  are  as  bad  to 
write  as  they  can  be  to  read;  for  this,  which 
you  ought  to  have  had  a  week  after  the 
tirst,  has  been  a  full  month  in  coming  forth. 
The  spirit  of  laziness  (the  spirit  of  the  place) 
begins  to  possess  even  me,  who  have  so 
long  declaimed  against  it;  yet  has  it  not  so 
prevailed,  but  that  1  feel  that  discontent 
with  myself,  that  ennui,  that  ever  accompa- 
nies it  in  its  beginnings  Time  will  settle 
my  conscience;  time  will  reconcile  me  to 
this  languid  companion:  We  shall  smoke,  we 
shall  tipple,  we  shall  doze  together:  we 
shall  have  our  little  jokes  like  other  people, 
and  our  old  stories:  brandy  will  finish  what 
port  began;  and  a  month  after  the  time  you 
will  see  in  some  corner  of  a  London  even- 
ing post,  "  Yesterday  dic^d  the  reverend  Mr. 
.John  Gray,  senior  fellow  of  Clare-Hall,  a 
facetious  companion,  and  well  respected  by 


GRAY*S    LETTERS.  199 

all  that  knew  him.  His  death  is  supposed 
to  have  been  occasioned  by  a  tit  of  an  apo- 
plexy, being  found  fallen  out  of  bed  with  his 
head  in  the  chamber-pot." 

In  the  meanwhile,  to  go  on  with  my  ac- 
count of  new  books  Montesquieu's  work, 
which  I  mentioned  before,  is  now  publish- 
ing anew  in  2  vols,  8vo.  Have  you  seen 
old  Crebillion's  Calalina,  a  tragedy,  which 
has  had  a  prodigious  run  at  Paris?  Histori- 
cal truth  is  too  much  perverted  in  it,  which 
is  ridiculous  in  a  story  so  generally'  known; 
but  if  you  can  get  over  this,  the  sentiiisents 
and  versification  are  tine,  and  most  of  the 
characters  (particularly  the  principal  one) 
tainted  with  great  Spirit. 

Mr.  Birch,  the  indefatigable,  has  just  put 
out  a  thick  octavo  of  original  papers  of 
queen  Elizabeth's  time;  there  are  many 
curious  things  in  it,  particularly  letters  from 
Sir  Robert  Cecil  (Salisbury)  about  his  ne- 
gociations  with  Henry  IV.  of  France,  the 
earl  of  Monmouth's  odd  account  of  queen 
Elizabeth's  death,  several  peculiarities  of 
•lames  I.  and  prince  IJenry,  &c.  and  above 
all,  an  excellent  account  of  the  state  of 
France,  with  characters  of  the  king,  his 
court,  and  ministry,  by  Sir  George  Carew, 
ambassador  thero._     This.  I  think,  is  al!  new 


200  gray's  letters. 

worth  mentioning,  that  I  have  seen  or  heard 
of;  except  a  Natural  History  of  Peru,  in 
Spanish,  printed  at  London,  by  Don — — 
something,  a  man  of  learning,  sent  thither  by 
that  court  on  purpose. 

You  ask  after  mj  chronology.  It  was 
began,  as  I  told  you,  almost  two  years  ago, 
when  I  was  in  the  midst  of  Diogenes  Laer- 
tins  and  his  philosophers,  as  a  prooemium  to 
their  works.  My  intention  in  forming  this 
table  was  not  so  much  for  public  events, 
though  these  too  have  a  column  assigned 
them,  but  rather  in  a  literary  way  to  com- 
pare the  time  of  all  great  men,  their  writings 
and  their  transactions.  I  have  brought  it 
from  the  30th  Olympiad,  where  it  begins,  to 
the  113th;  that  is,  332  years. ^-  My  only 
modern  assistants  were  Marsham,  Dodwell, 
and  Bentley. 

1  have  since  that  read  Pausanias  and  Athe- 
fia?.us  all  through,  and  .^schylus  again.  I 
im  now  in  Pindar  and  Lysias;  for  I  take 
verse  and  prose  together,  like  bread  and 
rlieese. 

*  This  lalx>vious  work  was  formed  much  in  the  manner  of  the 
President  Renault's  "  Histoire  de  France."  Every  page  consisted 
of  nine  columns  ;  one  for  the  Olympiad,  the  next  for  the  Archons, 
the  third  for  the  public  affairs  of  Greece,  the  three  next  for  tlie 
philosophers,  and  the  three  last  for  poets,  historians,  and  orator' 
T  do  not  find  it  earned  fuithcr  than  the  date  above  mentioned. 


GRAY'S    LETTERS.  201 


LXXI. 


TO    DR.    WHARTON. 


Cambridge,  Aug;ust  8,  1749. 

I  PROMISED  Dr.  Keene  long  since  to  give 
you  an  account  of  our  nriagnilicences  here;* 
but  the  newspapers  and  he  himself  in  per- 
son, have  got  the  start  of  my  indolence,  so 
that  by  this  time  you  are  well  acquainted 
with  ail  the  events  that  adorned  that  week 
of  wonders.  Thus  much  I  may  venture  to 
tell  you,  because  it  is  probable  nobody  else 
has  done  it,  that  our  friend  *■  *"'s  zeal  and 
eloquence  surpassed  all  power  of  descrip- 
tion. Vesuvio  in  an  eruption  was  not  more 
violent  than  his  utterance,  nor  (since  I  am 
at  my  mountains)  Pelion,  with  all  its  pine- 
trees  in  a  storm  of  wind,  more  impetuous 
than  his  action;  and  yet  the  senate-house 
still  stands,  and  (I  thank  God)  we  are  all 
safe  and  well  at  your  service.  I  was  ready 
10  sink  for  him,  and  scarce  dared  to  look 
about  me,  when  I  was  sure  it  was  all  over; 
but  soon  found  I  might  have  spared  my  con- 

•  The  Duke  of  Newcastle's  Installation  as  CLancellov  of  tfct 
University. 


202  gray's  letters. 

fusion;  all  people  joined  to  applaud  him. 
Every  thing  was  quite  right;  and  I  dare 
swear  not  three  people  here  but  think  him  a 
model  of  oratory;  for  all  the  duke's  little 
court  came  with  a  resolution  to  be  pleased; 
and  when  the  tone  was  once  given,  the  uni- 
versity, who  ever  vvait  for  the  judgment  of 
their  betters,  struck  into  it  with  an  admira- 
ble harmony:  for  the  rest  of  the  perform- 
ances, they  were  just  what  they  usually  are. 
Every  one,  while  it  lasted,  was  very  gay 
and  very  busy  in  the  morning,  and  very 
owlish  and  very  tipsy  at  night:  I  make  no 
exceptions  from  the  chancellor  to  blue-coat. 
Mason's  ode  was  the  only  entertainment 
that  had  any  tolerable  elegance;  and,  for 
my  own  part,  I  think  it  (with  some  little 
abatements)  uncommonly  well  on  such  an 
occasion.  Pray  let  me  know  your  senti- 
ments; for  doubtless  you  have  seen  it.  The 
author  of  it*  grows  apace  into  my  good 
graces,  as  1  know  bim  more;  he  is  very  in- 
genious, with  great  good-nature  and  simpli- 
city; a  little  vain,  but  in  so  harmless  and 
so  comical  a  way,  that  it  does  not  offend 
one  at  all;  a  little  ambitious,  but  withal  so 
ignorant  in  the  world  and  its  ways,  that  this 
does  not  hurt  him  in  one's  opinion;  so  sin- 
cere and  so  undisguised,  that  no  mind,  with 


gray's  letters.  203 

a  spark  of  generosity,  vvould  ever  think  of 
hurting  hiai,  he  lies  so  open  to  injury;  but 
so  indolent,  that  if  he  cannot  overcome  this 
habit,  all  his  good  qualities  will  signify  noth- 
ing at  all.  After  all,  I  like  him  so  well, 
I  could  wish  you  knew  him. 


LXXII. 


TO    HIS    MOTHER. 

Cambridge,  Nor.  7,  1749. 

The  unhappy  news  I  have  just  received 
from  you  equally  surprises  and  afflicts  me.* 
I  have  lost  a  person  I  loved  very  much,  and 
have  been  used  to  from  my  infancy;  but  am 
much  more  concerned  for  your  loss,  the 
circumstances  of  which  I  forbear  to  dwell 
upon,  as  you  must  be  too  sensible  of  them 
yourself;  and  will,  I  fear,  more  and  more 
need  a  consolation  that  no  one  can  give, 
except  He  who  has  preserved  her  to  you  so 
many  years,   and   at  last,  when  it  was   his 

*  The  death  of  his  aunt,  Mrs  Mary  Antrobus,  who  died  the 
5th  of  Noverabtr,  aiid  was  buried  in  a  vault  in  Stoke  church-yard, 
near  the  chancel  door,  io  which  also  his  mother  and  himself  (ac- 
cording to  the  diitiction  in  bis  will)  were  ftfterwards  buried. 


264  GRAY'S    LETTERS. 

pleasure,  has  taken  her  from  us  to  himself: 
and  perhaps,  if  we  reflect  upon  what  she 
felt  in  this  life,  we  may  look  upon  this  as  an 
instance  of  his  goodness  both  to  her,  and 
to  those  that  loved  her.  She  might  have 
languished  many  years  before  our  eyes  in  a 
continual  increase  of  pain,  and  totally  help- 
less; she  might  have  long  wished  to  end  her 
misery  without  being  able  to  attain  it;  or 
perhaps  even  lost  all  sense,  and  yet  conti- 
nued to  breathe;  a  sad  spectacle  to  such  as 
must  have  felt  more  for  her  than  she  could 
have  done  for  herself.  However  you  may 
deplore  your  own  loss,  yet  think  that  she  is 
at  last  easy  and  happy;  and  has  now  more 
occasion  to  pity  us  than  we  her.  I  hope, 
and  beg,  you  will  support  yourself  with  that 
resignation  we  owe  to  Him,  who  gave  us 
our  being  for  our  good,  and  who  deprives 
us  of  it  for  the  same  reason.  I  would  have 
come  to  you  directly,  but  you  do  not  say 
whether  you  desire  I  should  or  not;  if  you 
do,  I  beg  1  may  know  it,  for  there  is  nothing 
to  hinder  me,  and  I  am  in  very  good  health. 


GRAY'S    LETTERS.  205 

LXXIII. 

TO  MR.  WALPOLE. 

Stoke,  June  12,  1750. 

As  1  live  in  a  place,  where  even  the  ordi- 
nary tattle  of  the  town  arrives  not  till  it  is 
stale,  and  which  produces  no  events  of  its 
own,  you  will  not  desire  any  excuse  from  me 
for  writing  so  seldom,  especially  as  of  all 
people  living  i  know  you  are  the  least  a 
friend  to  letters  spun  out  of  one's  own  brains, 
with  all  the  toil  and  constraint  that  accom- 
panies sentimental  productions.  I  have  been 
here  at  Stoke  a  few  days  (where  I  shall  conti- 
nue good  part  of  the  summer);  and  having  put 
an  end  to  a  thing,  whose  beginning  you  have 
seen  long  ago,  I  immediately  send  it  you..* 
You  will,  I  hope,  look  upon  it  in  the  light  of 
a  thing  with  an  end  to  it  ;  a  merit  that  most 
of  my  writings  have  wanted,  and  are  like  to 
want,  but  which  this  epistle  1  am  determin- 
ed shall  not  want,  when  it  tells  you  that  I 
am  ever 

Youris. 

*  This  was  the  Elegr  in  the  church  yard.— B. 


206  GRAv's    LETTERS. 

Not  that  I  have  done  yet;  but  who  could 
avoid  tlie  temj)tation  of  finishing  so  roundly 
and  so  cleverly  in  the  manner  of  good  queen 
Anne's  days?  Now  I  have  talked  of  writings; 
I  have  seen  a  book,  which  is  by  this  time  in 
the  press,  against  Middieton  (though  without 
naming  him),  by  Asheton.  As  far  as  I  can 
judge  from  a  very  hasty  reading,  there  are 
things  in  it  new  and  ingenious,  but  rather  too 
prolix,  and  the  style  here  and  there  savour- 
ing too  strongly  of  sermon.  1  imagine  it  will 
do  him  credit  So  much  for  other  people, 
now  to  self  again.  You  are  desired  to  tell 
me  your  opinion,  if  you  can  take  the  pains, 
of  these  lines.     I  am  once  more 

Ever  yours. 


LXXIV. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Stoke,  August  9, 1750. 

Aristotle  says  (one  may  write  "^nc  t;k  to 
you  without  scandal)  that  0<  rtnot  tv  huXv6vfft 
TJjy  0t>iietv  UTrXugy  uXXu,  t»jv  ivi^yitctv  itnv  ^i  x^ovte^ 
4}  etToviTix  ymviTXt  Ktti  rvti  (ptXixs  ocku   X^dviv  tfciuv^ 


gray's  letters.  207 

But  Aristotle  may  say  whatever  he  pleases, 
I  do  not  find  myself  at  all  the  worse  for  it. 
1  could  indeed  wish  to  refresh  mj'^  Eniyiix 
a  little  at  Durham  by  the  sight  of  you,  but 
when  is  there  a-  probability  of  my  being  so 
happy?  It  concerned  me  greatly  when  I 
heard  the  other  day  that  your  asthma  con  • 
tinued  at  times  to  afflict  you,  and  that  you 
were  often  obliged  to  go  into  the  country  to 
breathe;  you  cannot  oblige  me  more  than  by 
giving  me  an  account  both  of  the  state  of 
your  bodj^  and  mind:  I  hope  the  latter  is 
able  to  keep  you  cheerful  and  easy  in  spite 
of  the  frailties  of  its  companion.  As  to  my 
own,  it  can  neither  do  one  nor  the  other; 
and  I  have  the  mortification  to  find  my  spi- 
ritual part  the  most  infirm  thing  about  me. 
You  have  doubtless  heard  of  the  loss  I  have 
had  in  Dr.  Middleton,  whose  house  was  the 
only  easy  place  one  could  find  to  converse 
m  at  Cambridge:  for  my  part,  I  find  a  friend 
so  uncommon  a  thing,  that  I  cannot  help  re- 
gretting even  an  old  acquaintance,  which  is 
an  indifferent  likeness  of  it;  and  though  1  do 
not  approve  of  the  spirit  of  his  books,  me- 
thinks  'tis  pity  the  world  should  lose  so  rare 
a  thing  as  a  good  writer.* 

*  Mr.  Gray  used  to  say,  that  good  writing  not  only  required 
great  parts,  but  the  vei7  best  of  tliose  parts. 


208  gray's  letters. 

My  studies  cannot  furnish  a  recommendation 
of  many  new  books  to  you.  There  is  a  de- 
fence "de  I'Esprit  des  Loix,"  by  Montes- 
quieu himself;  it  has  some  lively  things  in 
it,  but  is  very  short,  and  his  adversary  ap- 
pears to  be  so  mean  a  bigot  that  he  deserved 
no  answer.  There  are  3  vols,  in  4to.  of 
"Histoire  du  Cabinet  du  Roi,  by  Messrs. 
Bufibn  and  d'Aubentonf '  the  first  is  a  man 
of  character,  but  I  am  told  has  hurt  it  by  this 
work.  It  is  all  a  sort  of  introduction  to  na- 
tural history;  the  weak  part  of  it  is  a  love 
of  system  which  runs  through  it;  the  most 
contrary  thing  in  the  world  to  a  science  en- 
tirely grounded  upon  experiments,  and  which 
has  nothing  to  do  with  vivacit}'  of  imagina- 
tion. However,  I  cannot  help  commending 
the  general  view  which  he  gives  of  the  face 
of  the  earth,  followed  by  a  particular  one  of 
all  the  known  nations,  their  peculiar  figure 
and  manners,  which  is  the  best  epitome  of 
geography  I  ever  met  with,  and  written  with 
sense  and  elegance;  in  short,  these  books 
are  well  worth  turning  over.  The  memoirs 
of  the  Abbe  de  Mongon,  in  5  vols,  are  highly 
commended,  but  i  have  not  seen  them.  He 
was  engaged  in  several  embassies  to  Germn- 
ny,  England,  kc.  during  the  course  of  the 
late  war.    The  president  HeaauU's  "Abrtge 


GRAV'S    LETTERS.  209 

Chronologiqne  de  I'Histoire  de  France,"  I 
believe  I  "have  mentioned  to  you  as  a  very 
good  book  of  its  kind. 


LXXV. 

TO  DR.  V/HARTO&f. 

Dec.  17, 17*0, 

Of  my  house  I  cannot  say  much,*  I  vvish  I 
could;  but  for  my  heart,  it  is  no  less  yours 
than  it  has  long  been;  and  the  last  thing  in 
the  world  that  will  throw  it  into  tumults  is  a 
fine  lady.  The  verses,  you  so  kindly  try  to 
keep  in  countenance,  were  written  merely 
to  divert  lady  Cobham  and  her  family,  and 
succeeded  accordingly;  but  being  showed 
about  in  town,  are  not  liked  there  at  alK 
Mrs.  *■  *,  a  very  fashionable  personage,  told 
Mr.  VValpole  that  she  had  seen  a  thing  by  a 
friend  of  his  which  she  did  not  know  what  to 
make  of,  for  it  aimed  at  every  thing,  and 
meant  nothing;  to  which  he  replied,  that  he 
had  always  taken  her  for  a  woman  of  sense, 
and  was   very  sorry  to  be   undeceived.     On 

*  The  house  he  was  rebuilding  in  Comhill. 

-y^  ir.  14 


210  gray's  letters. 

the  other  hand,  the  stanzas*  which  I  now 
enclose  to  you  have  had  the  mislortune,  by 
Mr.  Walpole's  fault,  to  be  made  still  more 
public,  for- which  they  certainly  were  never 
meant;  but  it  is  too  late  to  complain  They 
have  been  so  applauded,  it  is  quite  a  shame 
to  repeat  it:  I  mean  not  to  be  modest;  but 
it  is  a  shame  for  those  who  have  said  such 
superlative  things  about  them,  that  i  cannot 
repeat  them.  I  should  have  been  glad  that 
you  and  two  or  three  more  people  had  liked 
them,  which  would  have  satisfied  my  ambi- 
tion on  this  head  amply.  1  have  been  this 
month  in  town,  not  at  Newcastle-House,  but 
diverting  myself  among  my  gay  acquaintance; 
and  return  to  my  cell  with  so  much  the 
more  pleasure.  I  dare  not  speak  of  my  fu- 
ture excursion  to  Durham  for  fear  of  a  dis- 
appointment, but  at  present  it  is  my  full 
intention. 


LXXVI. 

TO  MR.  WALPOLE. 

Cambridge,  Feb.  II,  1751. 

As  you  have  brought  me  into  a  little  sort  of 

*  Elegy  in  a  country  church-yard. 


gray's    LETTEjlS.  211 

distress,  you  must  assist  me,  I  believe,  to  g:et 
out  of  it  as  well  as  I  can.  Yesterday  I  had 
the  misfortune  ofreceivinga  letter  from  cer- 
tain gentlemen  (as  their  bookseller  expresses 
it^  who  have  taken  the  magazine  of  maga- 
zines into  their  hands:  they  tell  me  that  an 
ingenious  poem,  called  Reflections  in  a  Coun- 
try Church-yard,  has  been  communicated  to 
them,  which  they  are  printing  forthwith; 
that  they  are  informed  that  the  exccflent  au- 
thor of  it  is  I  by  name,  and  that  they  beg  not 
only  his  indulgence^  but  the  honour  of  his 
correspondence,  &c.  As  I  am  not  at  all  dis- 
posed to  be  either  so  indulgent,  or  so  corre- 
spondent, as  they  desire,  I  have  but  one  bad 
way  left  to  escape  the  honour  they  would 
inflict  upon  me;  and  therefore  am  obliged  to 
desire  you  would  make  Dodsley  print  it  im- 
mediately (which  may  be  done  in  less  than  a 
week's  time)  from  your  copy,  but  without 
my  name,  in  what  form  is  most  convenient 
for  him,  but  on  his  best  paper  and  character; 
he  must  correct  the  press  himself,  and  print 
it  without  any  interval  between  the  stanzas, 
because  the  sense  is  in  some  places  continued 
beyond  them;  and  the  title  must  be, — Elegy, 
written  in  a  country  church-yard.  If  he 
woild  add  a  line  or  two  to  say  it  came  into 
his  hands  by  accident,  I  should  like  it  better. 


212  gray's  letters. 

If  you  behold  the  magazine  of  magazines  in 
the  light  that  I  do,  you  will  not  refuse  to  give 
yourself  this  trouble  on  my  account,  which 
you  have  taken  of  your  own  accord  before 
now.  If  Dodsley  do  not  do  this  immediat^y^ 
he  may  as  well  let  it  alone. 


LXXVII. 

TO  MR.   WALPOLE. 

Ash-Wednesday,  Cambridge,  1751. 

You  have  indeed  conducted  with  great  de- 
cency my  little  misfortune :  you  have  taken 
a  paternal  care  of  it,  and  expressed  much 
more  kindness  than  could  have  been  expect- 
ed from  so  near  a  relation.  But  we  are  all 
frail;  and  I  hope  to  do  as  much  for  you  an- 
other time.  Nurse  Dodsley  has  given  it  a 
pinch  or  two  in  the  cradle,  that  (I  doubt)  it 
will  bear  the  marks  of  as  long  as  it  lives.  But 
no  matter:  we  have  ourselves  suffered  un- 
der her  hands  before  now;  and  besides,  it 
will  only  look  the  more  careless  and  by  ac- 
cident as  it  were.  I  thank  you  for  your  ad- 
vertisement, which  saves  my  honour,  and  in 
manner  bien  flatteuse  pour  moi,  who  should 
be  put  to  it  even  to  make  myself  a  compli- 
ment in  good  English. 


gray's  letters.  213 

You  will  take  me  for  a  mere  poet,  and  a 
fetcher  and  carrier  of  singsong,  if  I  tell  you 
that  1  intend  to  send  you  the  beginning  of  a 
drama;*  not  mine,  thank  God,  as  you'll  be- 
lieve, when  you  hear  it  is  finished,  but 
wrote  by  a  person  whom  I  have  a  very  good 
opinion  of.  It  is  (unfortunately)  in  the  man- 
ner of  the  ancient  drama,  with  choruses, 
which  I  am,  to  my  shame,  the  occasion  of: 
for,  as  great  part  of  it  was  at  first  written  in 
that  form,  I  would  not  suffer  him  to  change 
it  to  a  play  fit  for  tiie  stage,  as  he  intended, 
because  the  lyric  parts  are  the  best  of  it, 
and  they  must  have  been  lost.  The  stor}' 
is  Saxon,  and  the  language  has  a  tang  of 
Shakspeare,  that  suits  an  old  fashioned  fable 
very  well.  In  short,  I  don't  do  it  merely 
to  amuse  you,  but  for  the  sake  of  the  author, 
who  wants  a  judge,  and  so  I  would  lend  hira 
mine:  yet  not  without  your  leave,  lost  you 
should  have  us  up  to  dirty  our  stockings  at 
the  bar  of  your  house  for  wasting  the  time 
and  politics  of  the  nation.     Adieu,  sir! 

*  This  was  the  Elfrida  of  Mr.  Masgn.-B. 


£14  gray's  letters. 

LXXVIII. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Cambridge,  March  3,  1751, 

Elfrida  ^for  that  is  the  f^iir  one's  name)  and 
her  author  are  now  in  town  together.  He 
has  promised  me,  that  he  will  send  a  part  of 
it  to  you  some  morning  while  he  is  there; 
and  (if  you  shall  think  it  worth  while  to 
descend  to  particulars)  I  should  be  glad  you 
ivould  tell  me  very  freely  your  opinion 
about  it;  for  he  shall  know  nothing  of  the 
m;itter,  that  is  not  fit  for  the  ears  of  a 
tender  parent — though,  by  the  way,  he  has 
ingenuity  and  merit  enough  (whatever  his 
drama  may  have)  to  bear  hearing  his  faults 
very  patiently.  1  must  only  beg  you  not  to 
show  it,  much  less  let  it  be  copied;  for  it 
will  be  published,  though  not  as  yet. 

I  do  not  expect  any  more  editions,*  as  I 
have  appeared  in  more  magazines  than  one. 
The  chief  errita  were  sacrtd  bower  for 
secret ;  hidd-n  for  kindred  (in  spite  of  dukes 
and  classics);  -awA  frowning  as  in  scorn  for 
smiling.     I  humbly  propose,  for  the  benefit 

*  Of  the  Elegy  in  the  church-yard,~B. 


215 

of  Mr.  Dodsley  and  his  matrons,  that  take 
awake  for  a  verb,  that  they  should  read 
asleep,  and  all  will  be  right.*  Gil  Bias  is 
the  Lying  Valet  in  five  acts.  The  tine 
lady  has  half-a-dozen  good  lines  dispersed  in 
it.  Pompey  is  the  hasty  production  of  a 
Mr.  Coventry  (cousin  to  him  you  knew), 
a  young  clergyman:  I  found  it  out  by  three 
characters,  which  once  mrtde  part  of  a  come- 
dy that  he  showed  me  of  his  own  writing. 
Has  that  miracle  of  tendfrnrsx  and  sensihUity 
(as  she  calls  it)  lady  V.ine  given  3^ou  any 
amusement?  Peregrine,  whom  she  uses  as  a 
vehicle,  is  very  poor  indeed,  with  a  few 
exceptions.  In  the  last  volume  is  a  charac- 
ter of  Mr.  Lyttelton,  under  the  name  of 
Gosling  Scrag,  and  a  parody  of  part  of  his 
monody,  under  the  notion  of  a  pastoral  on 
the  death  of  his  grandmother. 

*  The  verse  tq,wLich  he  alludes  is  this : 

"  Ev'n  from  the  tomb  tlie  voice  of  nature  cries ; 
Ev'n  in  our  ashes  live  their  wonted  fires." 

rhe  last  line  of  which  he  ha.l  at  first  written  thus : 

"  Awake  and  faithful  to  her  woMed  fires.'"— 3. 


216  gray's  letters. 


LXXIX. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Nov.  Tuesday,  Cambridge. 

It  is  a  misfortune  to  me  to  be  at  a  distance 
from  both  of  you  at  present.  A  letter  can 
give  one  so  little  idea  of  such  matters ! 
*  *  *  *  1  always  believed  well  of  his  heart 
and  temper,  and  would  gladly  do  so  still. 
If  they  are  as  they  should  be,  I  should  have 
expected  every  thing  from  such  an  explana- 
tion; for  it  is  a  tenet  with  me  (a  simple  one, 
you'll  perhaps  say),  that  if  ever  two  people, 
who  love  one  another,  come  to  breaking,  it 
is  for  want  of  a  timel}'  eclaircisseraent,  a  full 
and  precise  one,  without  witnesses  or  media- 
tors, and  without  reserving  any  one  disa- 
greeable circumstance  for  the  mind  to  brood 
upon  in  silence. 

1  am  not  totally  of  your  mind  as  to  Mr. 
Lyttelton's  elegy,  though  I  love  kids  and 
fawns  as  little  as  you  do.  If  it  were  all  like 
the  fourth  stanza,  I  should  be  excessively 
pleased.  Nature  and  sorrow,  and  tender- 
ne=53,  are  the  true  genius  of  such  things;  and 
something  of  these  I  find  in  several  parts  of 
it  Tnot  in  the   orange-tree):  poetical  orna- 


gray's  letters.  217 

ments  are  foreign  to  the  purpose,  for  they 
only  show  a  man  is  not  sorry; — and  devotion 
worse;  for  it  teaches  him,  that  he  ought  not 
to  be  sorry,  which  is  all  the  pleasure  of  the 
thing.  1  beg  leave  to  turn  your  weather- 
cock the  contrary  way.  Your  epistle*  I 
have  not  seen  a  great  while,  and  doctor  M. 
is  not  in  the  way  to  give  me  a  siffht  of  it: 
but  I  remember  enough  to  be  sure  all  the 
world  will  be  pleased  with  it,  even  with  all 
its  faults  upon  Hs  head,  if  you  don't  care  to 
mend  them.  I  would  try  to  do  it  mjself 
(however  hazardous),  rather  than  it  should 
remain  unpublished.  As  to  my  Eton  ode, 
Mr.  Dodsley  is  padrone.]  The  secondj 
you  had,  I  suppose  you  do  ngt  think  worth 
gjving  him:  otherwise,  to  me  it  seems  not 
worse  than  the  former.  He  might  have 
Selima§  too,  unless  she  be  of  too  little  im- 
portance for  his  patriot  collection;  or  per- 
haps the  connexions  you  had  with  her  may 
interfere.     Che  so  io  ?   Adieu  ! 

*  From  Florence  to  Thomas  Asheion.— B. 
t  To  publish  in  his  collection  of  poems.— B. 
t  The  ode  to  Spring.— B. 

^  The  ode  on  Mr.  Walpole's  cat  drowned  in  the  tub  of  goU-fisli. 

-B. 


218 


LXXX. 

TO    MR.    WALFOLE. 

Cambridge,  Dec  Moodaj. 

This  comes  du  fond  de  ma  cellule  (o  tialute 
Mr.  H-  W.  not  so  much  him  that  visits  und 
votes,  and  goes  to  White's  and  to  court;  as 
the  H,  W.  in  his  rural  capacity,  snug  ii-  his 
tub  on  Windsor-hill,  aiid  brooding  over  folios 
of  his  own  creation:  him  that  can  slip  away, 
like  a  pregnant  beauty  (but  a  little  oftener,) 
into  the  country,  be  brought  to  bed  perhaps 
of  twins,  and  whisk  to  town  again  the  week 
after  with  a  fixce  as  if  nothing  had  happened. 
Among  all  the  little  folks,  my  godsons  and 
daughters,  I  cannot  choose  but  inquire  more 
particularly  after  the  health  of  one;  I  mean 
(without  a  tigure)  the  Memoirs:*  Do  they 
grow?  Do  they  unite,  and  hold  up  their 
beads,  and  dress  themselves?  Do  they  be- 
gin to  think  of  making  their  appearance  in 
the  world,  that  is  to.  say,  tifty  years  hence, 
to  make  po&lerity  stare,  and  all  good  people 
cross  themselves?  Has  Asheton  (who  will 
be  then  lord  bishop  of  Killaloe,  and  is  to 

•  Memoirs  of  his  o\^-n  time,  which  ]Mi-.  Walpole  was  then  writ- 
ing.—B. 


gray's  letters.  219 

pnblish  them)  thought  of  an  aviso  al  lettore 
to  !;rf'iix  to  them  yet,  importing,  that  if  the 
words  ch'irch,  king,  religion,  ministry,  &.C. 
be  found  often  repeated  in  this  book,  they 
are  not  to  be  taken  Hterally,  but  poetical- 
ly, and  as  may  be  most  strictly  reconcileable 
to  the  fiith  then  established; — that  he  knevr 
the  author  well  when  he  was  a  young  man; 
and  can  testify  upon  the  honour  of  his  func- 
tion, that  he  said  his  prayers  regularly  and 
devoutly,  had  a  profound  reverence  for  the 
clersjy,  and  firmly  believed  every  thing  that 
was  the  fashion  in  those  days? 

When  you  have  done  impeaching  my  lord 
Lovat,  I  hope  to  hear  de  vos  nouvelles,  and 
moreover,  whether  you  have  got  colonel 
Conway  yet?  Whether  sir  C.  Williams  is  to 
go  to  Berlin?  What  sort  of  a  prince  Mi- 
tridate  may  be? — and  whatever  other  tidings 
you  choose  to  refresh  an  anchoret  with. 
Fniilanto  I  send  you  a  scene  in  a  tragedy:* 
if  it  don't  make  you  cry,  it  will  make  you 
laugh;  and  so  it  moves  some  passion,  that  I 
take  to  be  enough.    Adieu,  dear  sirl  I  am,  Lc. 

*  The  first  scene  in  Mr,  Gray's  unfinished  tragedy  cf  Agrippi- 
na,  published  in  Mr.  Mason's  tditiou  of  his  wtrks.— B. 


220  GRA¥'S    LETTERS. 


LXXXI. 


TO    MR,    WALPOLE. 


Cambridge,  October  8,  1751. 

I  SEND  you  this*  (as  you  desire)  merely  to 
make  up  half-a-dozen;  though  it  will  hardly 
answer  your  end  in  furnishing  out  either  a 
head  or  tail-piece.  But  your  own  fablej 
may  much  better  supply  the  place.  You 
have  altered  it  to  its  advantage;  but  there  is 
still  something  a  little  embarrassed  here  and 
there  in  the  expression.  I  rejoice  to  find 
you  apply  (pardon  the  use  of  so  odious  a 
word)  to  the  history  of  your  own  times. 
Speak,  and  spare  not.  Be  as  impartial  as 
you  can;  and  after  all,  the  world  will  not  be- 
lieve you  are  so,  though  you  should  make  as 
many  protestations  as  bishop  Burnet.  They 
will  feel  in  their  own  breast,  and  find  it  very 
po-sible  to  hate  fourscore  persons,  yea, 
ninety  and  nine:  so  you  must  rest  satisfied 
with  the  testimony  of  your  own  conscience. 
Somebody  has  laughed  at  Mr.  Dodsley,  or 
at  me,  when  they  talked  of  the  bat :  I   have 

*  The  hymn  to  adversity.— B. 
t  The  entail.— B. 


gray's  letters.  221 

nothing  moi^e,  either  nocturnal  or  diurnal,  to 
deck  his  miscellany  with.  We  have  a  man 
here  that  writes  a  good  hand;  but  lie  has  lit- 
tle r'aihngs  that  hinder  my  recommending  hina 
to  you,*  He  is  lousy,  and  he  is  mad:  he 
sets  out  this  week  for  Bedlam;  but  if  you 
insist  upon  it,  I  don't  doubt  he  will  pay  his 
re>^pects  to  you.  i  have  seen  two  of  Dr. 
Middleton's  unpublished  woriis.  One  is 
abo  it  44  pages  in  4to.  against  Dr.  Water- 
land,  who  wrote  a  very  orthodox  book  on 
the  importance  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Trini- 
ty, and  insi'^ted,  that  Christians  ought  to  have 
no  commtinion  with  such  as  differ  from  them 
in  fundamentals.  Middleton  enters  no  fir- 
ther  into  the  doctrine  itself  than  to  show  that 
a  mere  speculative  point  can  never  be 
called  a  fundamental;  and  that  the  earlier 
fathers,  on  whose  concurrent  tradition 
Waterland  would  build,  are  so  far,  when 
they  speak  of  the  three  persons,  from  agree- 
ing with  the  present  notion  of  our  church, 
that  they  declare  for  the  inferiority  of  the 
son,  and  seem  to  have  no  clear  and  distinct 
idea  of  the  Holy  Ghost  at  all.  The  rest  is 
employed  in  exposing  the  folly  and  cruelty 
of  stiffness  and  zealotism  in   religion,  and  in 

*  As  an  amanuensis.    B. 


222  GRAY*S  LETTERS, 

showing  tbnt  the  primitive  ages  of  the  church, 
in  which  tradition  had  its  rise,  were  (even 
by  confession  of  the  best  scholars  and  most 
orthodox  writers)  the  ccra  cf  vcmcnse  and 
ab.stirdity.  It  is  finished,  and  very  well 
wrote;  but  has  been  mostly  incorporated  in- 
to his  other  works  particularly  the  Inquiry: 
and  for  this  reason  I  suppose  he  has  writ 
upon  it.  This  whotly  lend  abide.  The  second 
is  in  Latin,  on  miracles;  to  show,  that  of  the 
two  methods  of  defending  Christianity,  one 
frcm  its  intrinsic  evidence,  the  holiness  and 
purity  of  its  doctrines,  the  other  from  its  ex- 
ter-^al,  the  ntiracles  said  to  be  wrout^ht  to 
confirm  it;  the  first  has  been  little  attended 
to  by  reason  of  its  difficulty;  the  second 
much  insisted  upon,  because  it  appeared  an 
easier  task;  but  that  it  can  in  rejdity  prove 
nothing  at  all.  "Nobilis  iha  quidem  defen- 
sio  (the  first)  quam  si  obtinere  potuissent, 
rem  simul  omnem  expediisse,  causamque  pe- 
nitus  vicisse  viderentur.  At  causae  hujiis 
defv  ndendgB  labor  cum  tanta  argumentnndi 
cavillandique  molestia  conjunctus  ad  alterism, 
quam  dixi,  defensioni^^  viam,  ut  commodiort  ra 

longe  et  faciliorem,  plerosque  adegit tgo 

vero  istiusmodi  defensione  religitnem  los- 
tram  non  modo  non  conhimari,  sed  dubiam 
potius   suspectamque  reddi  existimo/'     He 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  2To 

then  proceeds  to  consider  miracles  in  gene- 
ral, and  afterwards  those  of  the  Pagans,  com- 
pared with  those  of  Christ.  I  only  tell  you 
the  plan,  for  I  have  not  read  it  out  (thongh 
it  is  short);  but  you  will  not  doubt  to  what 
conclusion  it  tends  There  is  another  U  ing, 
I  know  not  what,  1  am  to  see.  As  to  liie 
treatise  on  prayer;  they  say  it  is  burnt  in- 
deed.    Adieu! 


LXXXII. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Your  pen  was  too  rapid  to  mind  the  common 
form  of  a  direction,  and  so,  by  omitting  the 
words  near  Windsor,  your  letter  has  been 
diverting  itself  at  another  Stoke  near  Ayles- 
bury, and  came  not  to  my  hands  till  to-day. 
The  true  original  chairs  were  all  sold,  when 
the  Huntingdans  broke;  there  are  nothing 
now  but  Halsey-chairs,  not  adapted  to  the 
scpnreness  of  a  Gothic  dowager's  rump. 
And  by  the  way,  I  do  not  see  how  the  unea- 
siness and  uncomfortableness  of  a  corona- 
tion chair  can  be  any  objection  with  you: 
every  chair  that  is  easy  is  modern,  and  un- 
known to  our  ancestors.     As   I    remember. 


224  gray's  letters. 

there  were  certain  low  chairs,  that  look- 
ed like  ebony,  at  Esher,  and  were  old  and 
pretty.  Why  should  not  Mr.  Bentley  im- 
prove upon  them?  I  do  not  wonder  at 
Dodsley.  You  have  talked  to  him  of  six 
odts^  for  so  you  are  pleased  to  call  every 
thing  I  write,  though  it  be  but  a  recei;>t  to 
make  apple-dnmplings.  He  has  reason  to 
gulp  when  he  finds  one  of  them  onl}'  a  long 
story.  I  don't  know  but  I  may  send  him 
very  soon  (by  your  hands)  an  ode  to  his 
own  tooth,  a  high  Pindaric  upon  stilts,  which 
one  must  be  a  better  scholar  than  he  is  to 
understand  a  line  of,  and  the  very  best  scho- 
lars will  understand  but  a  little  matter  here 
and  there.  It  wants  but  seventeen  lines  of 
having  an  end,  I  don't  say  of  being  finished. 
As  it  is  so  unfortunate  to  come  too  late  for 
Mr.  Bentley,  it  may  appear  in  the  fourth 
volume  of  the  Miscellanies,  provided  you 
don't  think  it  execrable,  and  suppress  it. 
Pray,  when  the  fine  book  is  to  be  printed,* 
let  me  revise  the  press,  for  you  know  you 
can't;  and  there  are  a  few  trifles  I  could 
wish  altered. 

I  know  not  what  you  mean  by  hours    of 
love   and  cherries,  and  pine-apples.     I  nei- 

*  The  edition  of  his  odes  piinted  at  Strawberry-Lill.    B. 


gray's  letters.  225 

ther  see  nor  hear  any  thing  here,  and  am  of 
opinion  that  is  the  best  nay.  My  compli- 
ments to  Mr.  Bentley,if  he  be  with  you. 

1  desire  you  would  not  show  that  epigram 
I  re{)evUed  to  you,*  as  mine.  1  have  heard 
of  it  twice  already  as  coming  tVom  you. 


LXXXIII, 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

\  AM  obliged  to  you  for  Mr.  Dodsley's  book,t 
and,  having  pretty  well  looked  it  over,  will 
(as  you  desire)  tell  }'0u  my  opinion  of  it. 
He  might,  methinks,  have  spared  the  Graces 
in  his  frontispiece,  if  he  chose  to  be  eco- 
nomical, and  dressed  his  authors  in  a  little 
more  decent  raiment — not  in  vvhited-brown 
paper,  and  distorted  characters,  like  an  old 
ballad.  I  am  ashamed  to  see  myself;  but 
the  company  keeps  me  in  countenance:  so  to 
begin  with  Mr.  Tickell.  This  is  not  only  a 
state-poem  (my  ancient  aversion)  but  a  state- 
poem  on  the  peace  of  Utrecht.     If  Mr.  Pope 

*■  The  editor  much  wishes  he  could  repeat    it  to  the  public,  but 
has  not  been  abU  to  discover  the  epig;i'aiu  alluded  to.    B. 
f  His  collectloa  of  poems.    B. 
VOL.   IV.  15 


226  -  gray's  letters. 

had  wrote  a  panegyric  on  it,  one  could 
hardly  have  read  him  with  patience:  but 
this  is  only  a  poor  short-winded  imitator 
of  Addison,  who  had  himself  not  above 
three  or  four  notes  in  poetry,  sweet  enough 
indeed,  like  those  of  a  German  flute,  but 
such  as  soon  tire  and  satiate  the  ear  with 
their  frequent  return.  Tickell  has  added 
to  this  a  great  poverty  of  sense,  and  a  string 
of  transitions  that  hardly  become  a  school- 
boy. However,  I  forgive  him  for  the  sake 
of  his  ballad,*  which  I  always  thought 
the  prettiest  in  the  world.  All  there  is  of 
M.  Green  here  has  been  printed  before: 
there  is  a  profusion  of  wit  every  where; 
reading  would  have  formed  bis  judgment, 
and  harmonized  his  verse,  for  even  his  wood- 
notes  often  break  out  into  strains  of  real 
poetry  and  music.  The  School-mistress  is 
excellent  in  its  kind,  and  masterly;  and  (I 
am  sorry  to  differ  from  you,  but)  London  is 
to  me  one  of  those  few  imitations,  that  have 
all  the  ease  and  all  the  spirit  of  an  original. 
The  same  man'sj  verses  at  the  opening  of 
Garrick's  theatre    are  far  from  bad.       Mr. 


*  Colin  and  Lucy  ;  beginning 

"  Of  Leinster  fiaraed  for  maidens  fair." 
1-  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson.    B. 


gray's  letters.  227 

Dyer  (here  you  will  despise  me  highly)  has 
more  of  poetry  in  his  imagination,  than  al- 
most any  of  our  number;  but  rough  and  in- 
judicious. I  should  range  Mr.  Bramston  only 
a  step  or  two  above  Dr.  King,  who  is  as 
low  in  my  estimation  as  in  yours.  Dr. 
Evans  is  a  furious  madman;  and  Pre-exist- 
ence  is  nonsense  in  all  her  altitudes.  Mr. 
Lyttelton  is  a  gentle  elegiac  person:  Mr. 
Nugent*  sure  did  not  write  his  own  ode.j 
I  like  Mr.  Whitehead's  little  poems,  I  mean 
the  Ode  on  a  Tent,  the  Verses  to  Gar- 
rick,  and  particularly  those  to  Charles  Town- 
shend,  better  than  any  thing  I  had  seen  before 
of  him.  I  gladly  pass  over  H.  Brown,  and 
the  rest,  to  come  at  you.  You  know  I  was 
of  the  publishing  side,  and  thought  your 
reasons  against  it  none;  for  though,  as  Mr. 
Chute  said  extremely  well,  the  still  small 
voice  of  poetry  was  not  made  to  be  heard 
in  a  crowd;  yf>t  satire  will  be  heard, 
for  all  the  audience  are  by  nature  her 
friends;  especially  when  she  appears  in  the 
spirit  of  Dryden,  with  his  strength,  and 
often  with  his  versification;  such  as  you  have 
caught  in  those  lines  on  the  royal  unction, 

*  Afterwards  earl  Nugent.    B. 

t  That  addressed  to  Mr.  Pulteney.    B. 


228' 

on  the  papal  dominion,  and  convents  of  both 
sexes,  on  Henry  VIII.  and  Charles  II.  for 
these  are  to  me  the  shining  parts  of  your 
epistle.*  There  are  many  lines  I  could 
wish  corrected,  and  some  blotted  out,  but 
beauties  enough  to  atone  for  a  thousand 
worse  faults  than  these.  The  opinion  of 
such  as  can  at  all  judge,  who  saw  it  before 
in  Dr.  Middleton's  hands,  concurs  nearly 
with  mine.  As  to  what  any  one  says,  since 
it  came  out;  our  people  (you  must  know) 
are  slow  of  judgment:  they  wait  till  some 
bold  body  saves  them  the  trouble,  and  then 
follow  his  opinion;  or  stay  till  they  hear 
what  is  said  in  town,  that  is,  at  some 
bishop's  table,  or  some  coffee-house  about 
the  Temple.  When  they  are  determined, 
I  will  tell  you  faithfully  their  verdict.  As 
for  the  Beauties,!  I  am  their  most  humble 
servant.  What  shall  I  say  to  Mr.  Lowth, 
Mr.  Ridley,  Mr.  RoUe,  the  reverend  Mr. 
Brown,  Seward,  &;c.?  If  I  say,  Messieurs! 
tiiis  is  not  the  thing;  write  prose,  write 
sermons,  write  nothing  at  all;  they  will  dis- 
dain me,  and  my  advice.     What  then  would 

•  Epistle  from  Florence  to  Thomas  Asheton,  tutor  to   the  earl 
of  Plymoutk.    B. 
t  The  epistle  to  Mr.  Eccardt  the  Painter.    B. 


gkay's  letters.  229 

the  sickly  peer*  have  done,  that  spends 
so  much  time  in  admiring  every  thing 
that  has  four  legs,  and  fretting  at  his  own 
misforturie  in  having  but  two;  and  cursing  his 
own  politic  head  and  feeble  constitution,,  that 
won't  let  him  be  such  a  beast  as  he  would 
wish?  Mr.  S.  Jcnyns  now  and  then  cao 
write  a  good  line  or  two — such  as  these — 

Snatch  us  from  all  our  little  soiTow  s  here, 

Calm  everj'  grief,  and  dry  each  childish  tcai",  &c. 

I  like  Mr.  Ashton  Hervey's  fable;  aiid  an 
ode  (the  last  of  all)  by  Mr.  Mason,  a  new 
acquaintance  of  mine,  whose  Musasus  too 
seems  to  carry  with  it  the  promise  at  least 
«f  something  good  to  come,  I  was  glad  to 
see  you  distinguished  who  poor  West  was, 
before  his  charming  ode,t  and  called  it  any 
thing  rather  than  a  Pindaiic.  The  town  is 
an  owl,  if  it  don't  like  lady  Mary. I  and  1  am 
surprised  at  it:  we  here  are  owls  enough  to 
think  her  eclogues  very  bad;  but  that  1  did 
not  wonder  at.  Our  present  taste  is  sir  T, 
Fitz-Osborne's  Letters.     1  send  you  a  bit  of 

*  Lord  Hervey.    B. 

+  Monody  on  the  death  cf  queen  Caroline,    B. 

t  Lady  M»i7  W.  Moutajue's  Potras.    JB. 


230  gray's  letters. 

a  thing  for  two  reasons:  first,  because  it  is  of 
one  of  your  favourites,  Mr.  M.  Green;  and 
next,  because  I  would  do  justice.  The 
thought  on  which  my  second  ode*  turns  is 
manifestly  ^tole  from  hence:  not  that  I  knew 
it  at  the  time,  but,  having  seen  this  many 
years  before,  to  be  sure  it  imprinted  itself 
on  my  memory,  and,  forgetting  the  author, 
I  took  it  for  my  own.     The  subject  was  the 

(Queen's  Hermitage. 

***** 

Though  yet  no  palace  grace  the  shore 
To  lodge  the  pair  yout  should  adore  ; 
Nor  abbeys  great  in  ruins  rise, 
Royal  equivalents  for  vice  : 
Behold  a  grot  in  Delphic  grove 
The  Graces  and  the  Muses  love, 
A  temple  from  vain-glory  free  ; 
Whose  goddess  is  Philosophy  ; 
Whose  sides  such  licensed^  idols  crown, 
As  Superstition  would  pull  down  t 
The  only  pilgrimage  I  know, 
That  men  of  sense  would  choose  to  go. 
Which  sweet  aliode,  htr  wisest  choice, 
Urania  cheers  with  heavenly  voice : 
While  all  the  Virtues  gathir  round 
To  see  her  consecrate  the  ground. 

If  thou,  the  god  with  winged  feet. 
In  coujicll  talk  of  thii  retieat ; 

*  The  Ode  to  Spring.  B. 
t  Speaking  to  the  Thntr^s, 
t  The  four  beast^. 


uray's  letters.  ^31 

And  jealous  gods  resentment  show 
At  altars  raised  lo  men  below  : 
Tell  those  proud  lords  of  heaven,  'tis  fit 
Their  house  our  heroes  should  admit. 
While  each  exisis  (as  poets  sing) 
A  lazy,  lewd,  inunortal  thing  ; 
They  must,  or  grow  in  disrepute. 
With  earth's  first  commoners  recruit. 

Needless  it  is  in  terms  unskill'd 
To  praise  whatever  Boyle  shall  build. 
Keedless  it  is  the  busts  to  name 
Of  men,  monopolists  of  fame- 
Four  chiefs  adorn  the  moiest  stone, 
For  virtue,  as  for  learning,  known. 
The  thinking  seulptui-e  helps  to  raise 
Deep  thoughts,  the  genii  of  the  place  : 
To  the  mind's  ear,  and  inward  sight, 
Their  silence  speaks,  and  shade  gives  light ; 
While  insects  from  the  threshold  preach, 
And  minds  disposed  to  musing  teach  ; 
Proud  of  sirong  limbs  and  painted  hues, 
They  peiish  by  the  slightest  bruise, 
Or  maladies  begun  within 
Destroy  more  slow  life's  frail  machine : 
From  maggot-youth  through  change  of  state 
They  feel  like  us  the  turns  of  fate ; 
Some  bom  to  creep  have  liveil  to  fly, 
And  changed  earth's  cells  for  dwellings  high ; 
And  some,  that  did  their  six  wings  keep, 
Before  they  died,  been  forced  to  ci-eep. 
They  politics,  like  ours,  profess  : 
The  greater  prey  upon  the  less. 
Some  strain  on  foot  huge  loads  to  bring, 
Some  toil  incessant  on  the  wing  : 
Xor  from  their  ^gorous  schemes  desist 
Till  death  ;  andMhen  are  never  miss'd. 


»nd|die 


232  gray's  letters. 

Some  frolick,  marry,  toil,  increase, 
Are  sick  and  well,  have  war,  and  peace. 
And,  broke  with  ag«  in  half  a  day. 
Yield  to  successors,  and  away. 

*  *  #  #  * 


LXXXIV. 

TO  DR.  WHARTON. 

Dec.  19, 1752. 

Have:  you  read  madame  de  Maintenon's  let- 
ters? They  are  undoubtedly  genuine ;^  they 
begin  very  early  in  her  lite,  before  she  mar- 
ried Scarron,  and  continue  after  the  king's 
death  to  within  a  little  while  of  her  own: 
ihey  bear  all  the  marks  of  a  noble  spirit  (in 
lier  adversity  particularly)  of  virtue  and  un- 
affected devotion;  insomuch,  that  I  am  almost 
persuaded  she  was  actually  married  to  Louis 
XIV.  and  never  his  mistress:  and  this  not 
out  of  any  policy  or  ambition,  but  conscience: 
for  she  was  what  we  should  call  a  bigot,  yet 
with  great  good  sense.  In  short,  she  was 
loo  good  for  a  court.  Misfortunes  in  the  be- 
ginning of  her  life  hud  formed  her  mind 
(naturally  lively  art*]  impatient)  to  reflection 
and  a  habit  of  piety.     She  was  always  mise- 

■1' 


qray's  letters.  233 

rable  while  she  had  the  care  of  madame  de 
Montespnn's  children;  timid  and  very  cau- 
tious of  making  use  of  that  unlimited  power 
she  rose  to  afterwards,  for  fear  oftrespassing 
on  the  king's  friendship  for  her;  and  after  hig 
death  not  at  all  afraid  of  meeting  her  own. 

I  do  not  know  what  to  say  to  you  with  re- 
gard to  Racine;  it  sounds  to  me  as  if  -any 
l3ody  should  fall  upon  Shakspeare,  who  in- 
deed lies  intinitely  more  open  to  criticism  of 
all  kinds;  but  I  should  not  care  to  be  the 
person  that  undertook  it.  If  you  do  not 
like  Athaliah  or  Britannicus,  there  is  no 
more  to  be  said.     I  have  done. 

Bishop  Hall's  satires,  called  Virgidemia?, 
are  lately  re-published.  They  are  full  of 
spirit  and  poetry;  as  much  of  the  first  as  Dr. 
Donne,  and  far  more  of  the  latter:  they  were 
written  at  the  university  when  he  was  about 
twenty-three  years  old,  and  in  queen  Eliza- 
beth's time. 

You  do  not  say  whether  you  have  read 
the  Crito.*  I  only  recommend  the  dramatic 
part  of  the  Phasdo  to  you,  not  the  argumen- 
tative. The  subject  of  the  Erastae  is  good: 
it  treats  of  that  peculiar  character  and  turn 
of  mind  which  belongs  to  a  true  philosopher^ 

♦  Of  Plato. 


234  gray's  letters. 

but  it  is  shorter  than  one  would  wish.     The 
Eathyphro  I  would  not  read  at  all. 


LXXXV. 

TO  MR.  WALPOLE. 

Stoke,  Jan.  175*. 

I  AM  at  present  at  Stoke,  to  which  place  I 
came  at  half  an  hour's  warning  upon  the  news 
I  received  of  my  mother's  illness,  and  did 
not  expect  to  hav'e  found  her  alive;  but  when 
1  arrived  she  was  much  better,  and  continues 
so.  I  shall  therefore  be  very  glad  to  make 
you  a  visit  at  Strawberry -Hill,  whenever 
you  give  me  notice  of  a  convenient  time.  I 
am  surprised  at  the   print,*  which  far  sur- 

*  A  proof  print  of  the  Cul  de  Larnpe,  vhich  Mr.  Ecr.tley  de- 
signwf  for  the  elegy  in  a  country  cliurcL-}  ai-d.  and  which  represtrils 
a  village  funeral :  tin?  occasioned  tlie  j)leasant  mistake  of  his  two 
aunts  The  remainder  of  the  letter  relates  entirely  to  the  project- 
ed publication  of  Mi.  Bentky's  designs,  which  were  piinted  after 
by  Dodsley  tlie  same  year.  'I'he  latter  part  of  it,  where  he  so 
vehemently  declaims  against  having  his  head  prefixed  to  ihat  work, 
■will  appeal'  highly  (.•'laractf-ristical  to  those  readers,  who  were  iki- 
sonally  acquainted  with  Mr  Gisy.  The  print,  which  was  taken 
fixHT!  an  original  picture,  painted  by  Eccardt,  in  Mr.  Walpole's 
possession,  was  actually  more  than  half  engi-aved;  but  afterwards 
oa  this  account  supjiressed. 


gray's  letters.  235 

passes  my  idea  of  London  graving.  The 
drawing  itself  was  so  finished,  that  I  suppose 
it  did  not  require  all  the  art  1  had  imagined 
to  copy  it  tolerably.  My  aunts  seeing  me 
open  your  letter,  took  it  to  be  a  burying- 
ticket,  and  asked  whether  any  body  had  left 
me  a  ring;  and  so  they  still  conceive  it  to  be^ 
even  with  all  their  spectacles  on.  Heaven 
forbid  they  should  suspect  it  to  belong  to 
any  verses  of  mine,  they  would  burn  me  for 
a  poet.  On  my  own  part,  I  am  satisfied,  if 
this  design  of  yours  succeed  so  well  as  you 
intend  it;  and  yet  I  know  it  will  be  accom- 
panied with  something  not  at  all  agreeable  to 
me. — While  I  write  this,  I  receive  your 
second  letter. — Sure,  you  are  not  out  of  your 
wits  !  This  I  know,  if  you  suffer  my  head  to 
be  printed,  you  will  infallibl\  put  me  out  of 
mine.  I  conjure  you  immediately  to  put  a 
stop  to  any  such  design.  Who  is  at  the  ex- 
pense of  engraving  it,  I  know  not;  but  if  it 
be  Dodslev,  I  will  make  up  the  loss  to  him. 
The  thing  as  it  was,  I  know,  will  malie  me 
iidiculous  enough;  but  to  appear  in  proper 
jyer'jon,  at  the  head  of  my  works,  consisting 
of  half  a  dozen  ballads  in  thirty  pages,  would 
be  worse  than  the  pillory.  I  do  assure  you, 
if  I  had  received  such  a  book,  with  such  a 
frontispiece,  without  any  warning,  I  believe 


236  gray's  letters. 

it  would  have  given  me  a  palsy:  therefore  I 
rejoice  to  have  received  this  notice,  and  shall 
not  be  easy  till  you  tell  me  all  thoughts  of  it 
are  laid  aside.  I  am  extremely  in  earnest, 
and  cannot  bear  even  the  idea. 

I  had  written  to  Dodsley  if  I  had  not  re- 
ceived yours,  to  tell  him  how  little  1  liked 
the  title  which  he  meant  to  pretix;  but  your 
letter  has  put  all  that  out  of  my  head.  If 
you  think  it  necessary  to  print  these  expla- 
nations* for  the  use  of  people  that  have  no 
eyes,  I  should  be  glad  they  were  a  little 
altered.  I  am,  to  my  shame,  in  your  dfbt 
for  a  long  letter;  but  I  cannot  think  of  any 
thing  else  till  you  have  set  me  at  ease  on  this 
matter. 

LXXXVI. 

TO    MR.    MASON. t 

Durham,  Dee.  26,  1753. 

A  LITTLE  while  before  I  received  your  me- 

*  See  the  ah<,ve-mentioncd  designs,  where  the  explanations  here 
alluded  to  are  inserted. 

t  It  was  not  till  about  the  year  1747  that  I  had  the  happiness  of 
being  introduced  to  the  acquaintance  of  Mr.  Graj'.  Some  very  ju- 
venile imitations  of  Milton's  juvenile  poems,  wliich  I  liad  written 
a  year  or  two  before,  and  of  which  the  monody  on  Mv.  Pope's 
death  was  the  principal,  he  then,  at  the  request  of  OKe  of  my 
fri'wids,  was  so  obliging  as  t»  revise. 


gray's  letters.  237 

Irincholy  letter,  I  had  been  informed  by  Mr. 
Charles  Avison  of  one  of  the  sad  events  you 
mention.*  I  know  what  it  is  to  lose  persons 
that  one's  eyes  and  heart  have  long  been 
used  to;  and  I  never  desire  to  part  with  the 
remembrance  of  that  loss,  nor  would  wish 
you  should. — it  is  something  that  you  had  a 
little  time  to  acquaint  yourself  with  the  idea 
beforehand;  and  that  your  fither  suffered 
but  little  pain,  the  only  thing  that  makes 
death  terrible.  After  1  have  said  this,  I 
cannot  help  expressing  my  surprise  at  the 
disposition  he  has  made  of  his  affairs.  I 
must  (if  you  will  suffer  me  to  say  so)  call  it 
great  weakness;  and  yet  perhaps  your  afflic- 
tion for  him  is  heightened  by  that  very 
weakness;  for  I  know  it  is  possible  to  feel 
an  additional  sorrow  for  the  faults  of  those 
we  have  loved,  even  where  that  fault  has 
been  greatl)'  injurious  to  ourselves.  Let  me 
desire  you  not  to  expose  yourself  to  any 
further  danger  in  the  midst  of  that  scene  of 
sickness  and  death;  but  withdraw  as  soon  as 
possible  to  some  place  at  a  little  distance  in 
the  country;  for  I  do  not,  in  the  least,  like 
the  situation  you  are  in.     I   do   not   attempt 

*  Tbo  death  of  iny  father,  and  of  Dr.  Marraaduke  Pricket,  a 
yoiing  physician  of  my  own  age,  with  whom  I  was  brought  up 
tro  II  infancy,  vrlio  died  of  the  raine  infectious  fever. 


€38  gray's  letters. 

to  console  you  on  the  situation  your  fortune 
is  left  in;  if  it  were  far  worse,  the  good 
opinion  I  have  of  you,  tells  me,  you  will 
never  the  sooner  do  any  thing  mean  or 
unworthy  of  yourself;  and  consequently  I 
cannot  pity  you  on  this  account:  but  I  sin- 
cerely do  on  the  new  loss  you  have  had  of  a 
good  and  friendly  man,  whose  memory  1  ho- 
nour. I  have  seen  the  scene  you  describe, 
and  know  how  dreadful  it  is:  1  know  too  I 
am  the  better  for  it.  We  are  all  idle  and 
thoughtless  things,  and  have  no  sense,  no  use 
in  the  world  any  longer  than  that  sad  im- 
pression lasts;  the  deeper  it  is  engraved  the 
better. 


NDEX. 


.Vo.  Tagc 

I.    From  Mr.  West  —Complains  of  his  friend's  si- 
lence      .-.--.-.5 
II.    To  Mr.  West  .-Answer  to  the  formev.-A  trans- 
lation of  some  lines  from  Statins         -  -      7 

III.  From  Mr.  West. — Approbation  of  the  version. 

— Ridicule  on  the  Cambridge  Collection  of 
\>rses  on  the  Marriap^^  of  the  Prince  of  Wales      9 

IV.  To  Mr.  W.  St.— On   the  little  encouragement 

which  he  finds  given  to  classical  learning  at 
Cambridge  — His  aversion  to  metaphysical 
and  mathematical  studies       -  -  -     II 

V.    From  Mr   West.— Answer  to  the  former,  advi- 
ses his  correspondent  not  to  give  up  poetiy 
when  he  applies  himself  to  the  law        -        -    14 
VI.     To  Mr    Walpole.— Excuse  for   not  writing  to 

him,  &c.  -  -  -  -  -    16 

VII.  From  Mr-  West. — A  poetical  epistle  addressetl 
to  his  Cambridge  friend,  laken  in  part  from 
Tibullu"!,  and  a  prose  letter  of  Mr.  Pope  -  18 
VIII.  To  Mr.  West.— Thanks  him  for  Lis  poetical 
epistle. — Complains  of  low  spirits. — Lady 
Walpole's  death,  and  his  concern  for  Mr  H 
Walpole  -  -  -  -  -    22 

IX.  To  Mr.  Walpole-How  he  spends  his  own  time 
in  the  countrj' — Meets  with  Mr.  Southern, 
the  dramatic  poet  -  -  -  -    24 

X.    To  Mr,  Waljiole.— Supposed  manner  in   which 

Mr.  Walpole  spends  his  time  in  the  country    26 
XI.    From  Mr.  West.— Sends  him  a  translation  into 

Latin  of  a  Greek  epigram        -  -  -    28 

XII.    To  Mr.  Wert.— A  Latin  epistle  in  answer  to 

the  foregoing     -  -  -  -  -    30 

XIIL    From  Mr.   West  —On  leaving  the  University, 

and  removing  to  the  Temple  -  -    3  2 

XIV.  To  Mr  West.— A  Sippbic  Ode,  occasioned  by 
the  pi-eeeding  letter,  with  a  Latin  postscript, 
concluding  with  an   Alcaic  fragment  -  33 


;40 


Ix\DEX. 


-    36 


-    37 


XIX. 


XX. 


XXIX. 


39 


40 


-    46 


-     51 


No.  Page 

XV.    From  Mr.  West.— Thanks  for  liis  Ode,  &cc.-His 
idea    of  Sir  Roliert  Walpole 
XVI.     To  Mr.   Wal[)ole— Coigratulatts  him   on   his 
new  place  — Whimsical   descripticfn  of  the 
quadiaL.gle  of  Peter-House 
XVII.     To  Mr.  West  —On  his  own  leaving  the  Univer- 
sity        ...... 

XVai     From  Mr  Wes*. —Sends  him  a  Latin  El eg^'  in 
answer  to  Mr.  G  ay's  Sapphic  Ode     - 
To  liis  Mother.— His  voyage  from  Dover.— De- 
scription of  Calais. — .\blxrville.— Amiens  — 
Face  of  the  country,  and  di-ess  of  the  people    42 
To  Mr.  West  — Mtmuments  of  the  kir.gs  of 
Fiarce  at  St.  Denis,  &c,— French   ojjera  and 
music,  &c  —Actors.  &c. 
XXI.     To  Mr  West  — Pulace  of  Versailles.— Its  gar- 
dens and   waier-works,- Installation  of  the 
Kniglits  du  S.  Espnl 
XXII.    To  his  Mother  —Rheinis.— Its  Cathedral.— Dis- 
position and  amusements  of  its  inliabitants 
XXIII.     To  his  Father.— Face  of  the  country  between 
Rheims  and  D.jor.  -Description  of  the  latter. 
—  Monastery  of  the  Carthusians   and   CisteJ* 
ciaus       -  -  -  -  . 

XXIV.'  To  y-Y.  West,— Lyons. — Beauty  of  its  environs. 
— Ron  an  antiquities    -  -  -  - 

XXV.    From  Mr.  West.— His  wishes   to    accompany 

his  friend.— His  retiretl  life  in   Loiidoi..— Ad- 

dix'ss  to  his  Lyre,  in  Lai  in   Sapphics,  on  the 

pi-ospect  of  Mr-  Gray's  return 

XXVI.    To  his    Mother.— I. yovs — E.xcursion   to    the 

Grande  Chartreuse Solemn  arid  njmantic 

approach  to  it — His  ritejiticn  there  and  com- 
mendation of  the  moni.sler\ 
XXVII.  To  his  Father.- G.-neva  —Advantage  of  a  free 
government  exhibited  in  the  verj  look  of  the 
people. — Beauty  ef  the  lake,  and  plenty  of 
its   fish  -  .  -  .  . 

XXVIII.  To  his  Motlier  .—Journey  over  the  Alps  to  Turin. 
—Singular  accident  in  passing  thtm  — Me- 
tliod  of  travelling  over  Mount  Cenis 
To  Mr-  West  —Turin. — Its  Carnival,— Moiie  of 
the  views  and  sceniry  «»n  thi  road  to  the 
Grande  Ch-ntieuse  — Wild  and  savage  pios- 
ptcts  amongst  the  Alps  agreeable  to  Livy's  de- 
scription -  -  - 


55 


•59 


61 


-    64 


66 


69 


72 


-     76 


INDEX. 


241 


No. 
XXX. 


Page 


To  Mr.  West.— Genoa.— Music— The  Doge.— 
Churches  and  the  Palazzo  Doiia  -  -    80 

XXXI.     To  his  Mother.- Paintings  at  Modena.— Bolog- 
na— Beauty  and  richness  of  Lonibardy  -    83 
XXXII.    To  his  Mother  —The   Apennines. — Florence 

and  its   galleiy  -  -  -  -    86 

XXXIII.  To  Mr  West. — Journey  from  Genoa  to  Flo- 
rence.—Elegiac  verses  occasioned  by  the  sight 
of  the  plains  whei-e  the  battle  of  Trebia  was 
fought  -  -  -  -  -    90 

XXXrV.    From  Mr.  West.— Latin  Elegy,  expressing  his 

wishes  to  see  Italy  and  Greece  -  -    91 

XXXV.  To  his  Mother.— Death  of  the  pope.— Intended 
departure  for  Rome. — First  and  pleasing 
appearanceof  an  Italian  spring  -  -    92 

XXXVI.  To  his  Mother.— Cathedral  of  Sienn«.— yiterbo. 
—Distant  sight  of  Rome.— The  Tiber.— En- 
trance into  the  city. — St  Peter's  — Introduc- 
tion of  the  Cardinal  d'Auvergne  into  the 
conclave  -  -  -  -  -    94 

XXXVII.    To  his  Mother.— Illumination  of  St.  Peter's  on 

Good  Friday,  &c  -  -  -  -    99 

XXXVIII.  To  Mr.  West.— Comic  account  of  the  palace  of 
the  duke  of  Modena  at  Tivoli. — The  Anio.— 
Its  cascade  —Situation  of  the  town.— Villas  of 
Horace  and  Mascenas,  and  other  remains  of 

antiquity. — Modem  aqueducts. A   grand 

Roman  ball       -  -  -  -  -  101 

To  Mr  West.— An  Alcaic  ode.— Ludicrous  al- 
lusion to  ancient  customs.— Albano  and  its 
lake.— Castel  Gondolfo  —Prospect  from  the 
palace;  an  obstrvation  of  Mr.  Walpole's  on 
the  vifws  in  that  part  of  Italy. — Latin  in- 
scriptions, ancient  and  modem  -  -  io§ 
To  his  Mother— Road  to  Naples.— Beautiful 
situation  of  that  city.— Its  bj<y.— Of  Baia;, 
and  several  other  antiquities. — Some  ac- 
count of  the  first  discovery  of  an  ancient 
town,  not  known  to  be  Herculaneum  -  112 
XLI.  To  his  Father.— Departure  ft-om  Rome  and 
return  to  Florence. — No  likelihood  of  the 
conclave's  rising. — Some  of  the  cardinals 
dead.— Description  of  the  Pretender,  his  sons, 
and  court.— Procession  at  Naples —Sight  of 
the  king  and  queen —Mildness  of  the  air  at 
Florence  -  -  -  -  -  lis 
XLII.    From  Mr.  West  —On  his  quitting  the  Temple, 

and  reason  for  it  -  -  -  -  119 

XLIII.    To  Mr.  West.— Answer  to  the  foregoing  letter. 


XXXIX. 


XL. 


VOL. 


16 


142 


INDEX. 


—Some  account  of  Naples  and  its  environs, 
and  of  Mr.  Walpole's  and  his  return  to  Flo- 
rence     ------  121 

XLIV.    To  his  Mother.— Excursion  to  Bologna.— Elec- 
tion of  a  po|)e ;   description  of  his  person, 
with  an  odd  speech  which  he  made  to  the 
cai^inals  in  the  conclave  .  -  -  127 

XLV.    To  Mr.  West.— Description  in  Latin  hexame- 
ters of  the  sudden  rising  of  Monte   Nuovo 
near  Puzzoli,  and  of  the  destrution  which  at- 
tended it  -  -  -  -  -  130 

XLVI.  To  his  Father. — Uncertainty  of  the  route  he 
shall  take  iu  his  return  to  England.— Magni- 
ficence of  the  Italians  in  their  reception  of 
strangers,  and  parsimony  when  alone.— The 
great  applause  which  the  new  pope  meets 
with. — One  of  his  bon  mots  -  -  135 

XLVII.  To  his  Father.— Total  want  of  amusement  at 
Florence,  occasioned  by  the  laie  emperor's  fu- 
neral i>ot  being  public. — A  procession  to  avert 
the  ill  effects  of  a  late  inundation— Intention 
of  going  to  Venice.- An  invasion  from  the  Nea- 
politans appi-ehended. The  inhabitants  of 

Tuscany   dissatisfied   with    the  government  137 

XLVIII.  To  Mr.  Wt-st.— The  time  of  his  departure 
from  Florence  determined. — Alteration  in  his 
temper  and  spirits.— Difference  between  an 
Italian  fair  and  an  English  one.— A  farewell 
to  Florence  and  its  prospects  in  Latin  hexame- 
ters—Imitation, in  the  same  language,  of  an 
Italian  sonnet  -  -  -  _  140 

XLIX.  From  Mr.  West. — His  spirits  not  as  yet  im- 
proved  by  country  air.— Has  begim  to  read 
Tacitus,  but  not  to  relish  him  -  -144 

L.  To  Mr.  West  —Earnest  hopes  for  his  friend's 
better  health,  as  the  warm  weather  comes  on. 
—Defence  of  Tacitus  and  his  character.— Of 
the  new  Dunciad. — Sends  him  a  speech  from 
the  first  scene  of  his  Agrippina  -  145 

LI.    From  Mr.  West.— Criticisms  on  his  friend's  tra- 
gic style.— Latin  hexameters  on  his  own  cough  148 
LII.    To  Mr.  West: — Thanks  for  his  verses. — On 
Joseph  Andrews.— Defence  of  old  words  in 
tragedy  -  -  -  -  -  150 

LIII.    From  M^^  West.— Answer  to  the  former,  on 

the  subject  of  antiquated  expressions  -  155 

LIV     To  Mr.  West.— Has  laid  aside  his  ti-agedy.— 

Difficulty  of  translating  Tacitus       -  -  158 

LV,    From  Mr.  West.— With  an  English  ode  ou  the 

approach  of  May  -  -         -  -  iflO 


INDEX. 


243 


JVo.  Page 

LVI.    To  Mr.  West— Criticises  his  ode.— Of  his  owli 

classical  studies  -  -  -  -  162 

LVII-     From  Mr.  West.— Answer  to  the  foregoing      -  164 
LVIII.    To  Mr  West. — Of  his  own  peculiar  species  of 
melancholy. — Inscription    for  a    wood  in 
Greek  hexametei's.-Arguinent  and  exordium 
of  a  Latin  heroic  epistle  from  Sophonisba  to 
Massinissa       -----  155 
LIX.    To  Dr.  Wharton,  on  taking  his  degree  of  Ba- 
chelor of  Civil  Law  -  .  -  159 
LX.     To  Dr.  Wharton. — Ridicule  on  university 
laziness. — Of  Dr.  Akenside's  Poem  on  the 
pleasures  of  Imagination               -  -  171 
LXI,    To  Mr.  Walpole.— Ludicrous  description  of 
the  Scottish  army  s  approach  to  the  capital. 
—Animadversions  on  Pope             -  -  174 
LXII.    To  Dr.  Wharton.— His  amusements  in  to^vn.— 

Reflections  on  riches.— Character  of  Aristotle  176 
LXIII.     To  Mr.  Walpole.— Observations  on  his  tragedy 
of  Agrippiiia.— Admirable  picture  of  true 
philosophy        ... 
LXrV.    To  Mr.  Walpole.— Ridicule  on  Gibber's  Ob- 
servations    on    Cicero. — On    the   modern 
Platonic   dialogue. — Account  of  his  own 
and  Mr.  West's  poetical  compositions 
LXV.    To  Mr.  Walpole  — Criticisms  ou  Mr.  Speuce's 

Polymetis        -  .  - 

LXVL    To  Ml'.  Walpole.— Ludicrous  compliment  of 
condolence  on  the  death  of  his  favourite 
cat,  enclosing  an  ode  on  that  subject 
LXVII.    To  Dr.  Wharton.— Loss  by  fire  of  a  house  m 
Comhill.— On  Diodorus  Siculus. — M  Gres- 
set  s  Poems.-Thomson's  Castle  of  Indolence. 
—Ode  to  a  Water  Nymph,  with  a  character 
of  its  author 
LXVIII.    To  Dr.  Wharton.— More  on  M.  Gresset.— Ac- 
count of  his  own  projected  poem  on  the  al- 
liance between  governnient  and  education  195 
LXIX.    To  Dr   Whaiton. — Character  of  M.  de  Mon- 
tesquieu's L'Esprit  des  Loix  .  ,  jjy 
LXX.    To  Dr.  Wharton  .-Account  of  books  continued. 
— Crebillon's  Catalina.-Birch's  State  Papers. 
—Of  his  own  studies,  and  a  table  of  Gi-eek 
chronolog)-,  which  he  was  then  forming       .  jgg 
LXXI.     To  Dr.  Wharton.— Ludicrous  account  of  the 
Duke  of  Newcastle's  installation  at  Cam- 
bridge—On the  ode  then    performed,  and 
more  concerning  the  auUiw  w  it     -         -201 


-  180 


-  183 


-  187 


191 


-  192 


244 


INDEX. 


No.  Page 

LXXII.    To  his  Mother.— Consolatory  on  the  death  of 

her  sister         -  -  -  -  -    05 

LXXIII.     To  Mt.   Walpole.— Encloses  his   Elegy  in  a 

Country   Church-yard  ...  205 

LXXIV.  To  Dr  Wharton.— Wishes  te  be  able  to  pay 
him  a  visit  at  Durham.— On  Dr.  Middleton's 
death.— Some  account  of  the  first  volumes  of 
Burfbn's  Histoire  Naturelle     -  -  -  286 

LXXV.  ToDr  Wharton.-On  theill  reception  which  his 
Long  Story  met  with  in  town  when  handed 
about  in  manuscript,  and  how  much  his  Elegy 
in  a  Country  Church-yard  was  applauded  209 
LXXVI.  To  Mr.  Walpole,— Desires  him  to  give  his  Ele- 
gy to  Mr.  Dodsley  to  be  printed  immediately, 
in  order  to  prevent  its  publication  in  a  ma- 
gazine -----  210 
I.XXVIL    To  Mr.  Walpole  ^A  letter  of  thanks  for  Mr. 

Walpole's  care  of  liis  literary  productions     -  212 
LXXVIII.    To  Mr.  Walpole.— Desires  his  opinion  of  the 
Elfrida  of  Mr  Mason.— Proposes  some  alte- 
rations  in  his  Elegy    -  -  -  -  214 

LXXIX.  To  Mr.  Walpole,— Remarks  on  the  Elegy  of 
Mr  Lyttelton,  and  likewise  on  some  of  his 
own  productions         -  -  -  .  216 

LXXX.  To  Mr.  Walpole  — Humorous  inquiry  into  the 
state  of  .r.  Walpole's  forthcoming  publica- 
tions, &c.  -----  218 
LXXXI.  To  Mr.  Walpole  —With  his  Hymn  to  Adver- 
sity.—Remarks  on  Dr.  C.  Middleton's  Essay 
on  Miracles  -----  220 
LXXXII.    To  Mr.  Walpole.— With  a  promise  of  shortly 

sending  his  Pindaric  Ode        -  -  -  24'3 

LXXXIII.    To  Mr   Walpole.— Remarks  on  Dodsley's  Col- 
lectioii  of  Poems,   and  on   several  literary 
characters  of  the  time,  together  with  an  ex- 
tract from  a  poem        -  -  -  -  225 
LXXXIV.    To  Dr.  Wharton.— Of  Madame   Maintenon's 
character  and   letters.— His  high  opinion  of 
M.  Racine.— Of  bishop  Hall's  Satires,  and  of 
a  few  of  Plato's  Dialogues      -           -  -  232 
LXXXV.    To  Mr.  Walpole.— Concerning  the  intention  of 
publishing  Mr.  Bentley's  designs  for  his  po- 
ems.—Refuses  to  have  his  own  portrait  pre- 
fixed to  that  work        -           .           -          -  234 
LXXXVIi    ToMr.  Mason.— On  the  death  of  his  father       -236 


EKD  OF  vol.  I. 


THE 

LETTERS 

OF 

CHRONOLOGICALLY    ARRAi«GED 

S  FROM    THE 

WALPOLE  AND  MASON  COLLECTIONS. 


VOL.    II. 


TWDCCCXX. 


LETTERS 


THOMAS     GRAY. 


LXXXVII. 


TO    DR.    WHARTON. 


Stoke,  Sept.  18,  1754. 

I  AM  glad  you  enter  into  the  spirit  of  StraW- 
berry-Castle;  it  has  a  purity  and  propriety 
of  Gothicism  in  it  (with  very  few  excep- 
tion-) that  I  have  not  seen  elsewhere.  My 
lord  Radnor's  vagiaries  I  see  did  not  keep 
you  from  doing  justice  to  his  situation,  which 
far  surpasses  every  thino;  near  it;  and  1  do 
pot  know  a  more  laughing  scene  than  that 
about  Twickenham  and  Richmond.  Dr. 
Akenside,  I  perceive,  is  no  conjurer  in 
architecture,  especially  when  he  talks  of 
the  ruins  of  Persepolis,  which  are  no  more 


4  GRAY  S  LETTERS. 

Gothic  than  they  are  Chinese.  The  Egyp- 
tian style  (see  Dr.  Pococke,  not  his  dis- 
courses, but  his  prints)  was  apparently  the 
mother  of  the  Greek;  and  there  is  such  a 
siraihtude  between  the  Egyptian  and  those 
Persian  ruins,  as  gave  Diodorus  room  to 
affirm,  that  the  old  buildings  of  Persia  were 
certainly  performed  by  Egyptian  artists. 
As  to  the  other  part  of  your  friend's  opinion, 
that  the  Gothic  manner  is  the  Saracen  or 
Moorish,  hd  has  a  great  authority  to  sup- 
port him,  that  of  sir  Christopher  Wren;  and 
yet  I  cannot  help  thinking  it  undoubtedly 
wrong.  The  palaces  in  Spain  I  never  saw 
but  in  description,  which  gives  us  little  or 
no  idea  of  things;  but  the  doge's  palace  at 
Venice  I  have  seen,  Vvhich  is  in  the  Ara- 
besque manner:  and  the  houses  of  Barbary 
3^ou  may  see  in  Dr.  Shaw's  book,  not  to 
mention  abundance  of  other  eastern  build- 
ings in  Turkey,  Persia,  &c.  that  we  have 
views  of;  and  they  seem  plainly  to  be  cor- 
ruptions of  the  Greek  architecture,  broke 
into  little  parts  indeed,  and  covered  with  lit- 
tle ornaments,  but  in  a  taste  very  distin- 
guishable from  that  which  we  call  Gothic. 
There  is  one  thing  that  runs  throi;gh  the 
Moorish  buildings,  that  an  imitator  would 
certainly  have  been  first  struck  with,  and 


GRAY  3  LETTERS.  5 

would  Imve  tried  to  copy;  and  that  is  the 
cupolas  which  cover  every  thing,  baths, 
apartments,  and  even  kitchens;  yet  who 
ever  saw  a  Gothic  cupohi?  It  is  a  thing 
plaini}'  of  Greek  original.  I  do  not  see 
any  thing  but  the  slender  spires  that  serve 
for  steeples,  which  may  perhaps  be  borrow- 
ed from  the  Saracen  minarets  on  their 
mosques. 

I  take  it  ill  you  should  say  any  thing 
against  the  Mole,  it  is  a  reiiectit)n  I  see  cast 
at  the  Thames.  Do  you  think  that  rivers, 
which  have  lived  in  London  and  its  neigh- 
bourhood all  their  days,  will  run  roaring  and 
tumbhng  about  like  your  tramontane  tor- 
rents in  the  north?  No,  they  only  glide  and 
whisper. 


LXXXVIII. 

TO  DR.    WHARTON. 

Cambridge,  March  9,  1755. 

I  DO  not  pretend  to  humble  any  one's  pride; 
I  love  my  own  too  well  to  attempt  it.  As 
to  mortifying  their  vanity,  it  is  too  easy  and 
too  mean  a  task  for  me  to  delight  in,  You 
are  very  good  in  showing  so  much  sensibi- 


6  gray's  letters. 

Irty  on  my  account;  but  be  assured  my  taste 
for  praise  is  not  like  that  of  children  for 
fruit;  if  there  were  nothing  but  medlars  and 
blackberries  in  the  world,  I  could  be  very 
well  content  to  go  without  any  at  all.  I 
dare  say  that  xMasnn,  though  some  years 
younger  than  I,  was  as  little  elevated  with 
the  approbation  of  lord  *  *  and  lord  *  *,  as 
I  am  mortitied  by  their  silence. 

With  regard  to  publishing,  1  am  not  so 
much  against  the  thing  itself,  as  of  publish- 
ing this  ode  alone.*  I  have  two  or  three 
ideas  more  in  my  head;  what  is  to  come  of 
them?  Mu?t  they  too  come  out  in  the  shape 
of  little  sixpenny  flams,  dropping  one  after 
another  till  Mr.  Dodslev  thinks  fit  to  collect 
them  with  Mr.  This's  Song,  and  Mr.  'I'oth- 
er's  epigram  into  a  pretty  volume?  I  am 
sure  Mason  must  be  sensible  of  this,  and 
therefore  cannot  mean  what  be  says;  neither 
am  I  quite  of  your  opinion  with  regard  to 
strophe  and  antistrophe;!  setting  aside  the 

*  His  Ode  on  the  Progress  of  Poftry. 

+  He  often  mad-  the  same  remark  to  me  in  conversation,  which 
leA  vne  to  form  the  last  ode  of  Caiactucus  in  short  r  si3  ;zu>:  hut 
we  must  not  imagine  that  he  thought  tiie  regular  Pi  rii;/ic  ■•  i-tiiod 
without  its  use;  though  as  be  iiistly  says,  when  tbrnttir,  long 
stanzas,  it  d(<-s  ..ot  fully  succeed  in  uoj^it  of  effect  on  the  eav  :  for 
J  here  was  nothings  which  he  more  disliked  than  that  chain  of  irre- 


oray's  letters.  7 

difficnlty  of  execution,  niethiriks  it  has  little 
or  no  etfect  on  the  ear,  which  scarce  per- 
ceives the  regular  return  of  metres  at  so 
great  a  distance  from  one  another:  to  make 
it  succeed,  I  am  persuaded  the  stanzas  njust 
not  consist  of  above  nine  lines  earii  at  the 
most. — Pindar  has  several  such  odes. 


LXXXIX. 


TO    MR.    STONHEW^ER.'^ 

August  21,  1755. 

I  THANK  you  for  your  intellic^enoe  .«I>uut 
Herculaneum,  which  was  the  hist  neus  I 
received  of  it.     I  have  smce  turned  over 

gular  stauaas  which  Cowley  introduced,  and  falstly  calk-d  Pin- 
dainc  ;  and  which,  from  the  extreme  facility  of  execiitici;,  pro- 
duced a  number  of  iniserabL'  imitaiors  Had  the  ivgulai  return  of 
strope,antistrophe  and  epode  no  other  merit  thar  that  oi  extreme 
difficulty,  it  o  igMt  on  this  very  account,  to  be  valued  ;  kcause  we 
well  tinow  thiit  "'  easy  writing  is  i.o  easy  reading.''  It  is  also  to 
be  remarked,  that  Mr  Congreve,  who  (though  witJiout  any  luical 
powers)  iirst  introduced  the  regular  Pindaric  form  into  th.  E-.igiish 

lajig'iagc,  made  use  of  the  short  stanzas  which  Mr    Gray  here 

recommends      See  his  ode  to  the  queen. 

*  Aftti-warfs  aud  tor  of  excise.     His  friendship  with  ]Nfr.  Gray 
wmunenced  at  college,  and  continued  till  the  death  of  the  latter. 


8  GRAY  S    LETTERS, 

monsignor  Baiardi's  book,*  where  I  have 
learned  how  many  grains  of  modern  wheat 
the  Roman  congius.  in  the  capitol,  holds, 
and  how  many  thousandth  parts  of  an  inch 
the  Greek  foot  consisted  of  more. (or  less, 
for  I  forgot  which)  than  our  own.  He 
proves  also  by  many  affecting  examples,  that 
an  antiquary  may  be  mistaken:  that,  for  any 
thing  any  body  knows,  this  place  under 
ground  might  be  some  other  place,  and  not 
Hefcuhiaeum;  but  nevertheless,  that  he  can 
show  for  certain,  that  it  was  this  place  and 
no  other  place;  that  it  is  hard  to  say  which 
of  the  several  Hercules's  was  the  founder; 
therefore  (in  the  third  volume)  he  promises 
to  give  us  thp  memoirs  of  them  all;  and  after 
that,  if  we  do  not  know  what  to  think  of  the 
matter,  he  will  tell  us.  There  is  a  great 
deal  of  wit  too,  and  satire,  and  verses,  in 
the  book,  which  is  intended  chiefly  for  the 
information  of  the  French  king,  who  will  be 
greatly  edilied  without  doubt. 

*  I  believe  the  book  here  ridiculed  was  published  by  the 
authority  of  the  king  of  Naples  But  afterwards,  oh  finding- 
how  ill  qualified  the  autlior  was  to  execute  the  task,  the  business 
of  describing  the  antiquities  foimd  at  Heiculaneum  was  put  into 
other  lianas  ;  who  have  certainlj',  as  far  as  they  have  ^one,  pev« 
formed  it  much  better. 


GRAY  S  LETTERS.  9 

I  am  much  obliged  to  you  also  for  Vol- 
taire's performance;  it  is  very  unequal,  as 
he  is  apt  to  be  in  all  but  his  dramas,  and 
looks  like  the  work  of  a  man  that  will  admire 
his  retreat  and  his  Leman-Lake  no  longer 
than  till  he  finds  an  opportunity  to  leave  it:* 
however,  though  there  be  many  parts  which 
I  do  not  like,  yet  it  is  in  several  places  ex- 
cellent, and  every  where  above  mediocrity. 
As  you  have  the  politeness  to  pretend  impa- 
tience, and  desire  I  would  communicate,  and 
all  that,  I  annex  a  piece  of  the  prophecy;! 
which  must  be  true  at  least,  as  it  was  wrote 
so  many  hundred  years  after  the  events. 


XC. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Pembroke-Hall,  INIarch  25,  1756. 

Though  I  had  no  reasonable  excuse  for  my- 
self before  I  received  your  last  letter,  yet 
<\nce  that  time  1  have  had  a  pretty  good  one; 
having  been  taken   up  in  quarrelling  with 

*  I  do  not  recollect  the  title  of  this  poem,  but  it  was  a  small 
one  which  M.  de  Voltaire  wrote  when  he  first  settled  at  Femey. 

t  The  second  antistrophe  and  epode,  with  a  few  lines  of  the 
tl^inl  strophe  of  his  ode,  entitled  the  Bard,  were  here  inserted. 


10  gray's  letters. 

Peter-house,*  and  in  removing  myself  from 
thence  to  Pembroke.  This  may  be  looked 
upon  as  a  sort  of  aira  in  a  life  so  barren  of 
events  as  mine;  yet  1  shall  treat  it  in  Vol- 
taire's manner,  and  only  tell  you  that  1  left 
my  lodiiings  because  the  rooms  were  noisy, 
and  the  people  of  the  house  uncivil.  This 
is  all  I  would  choose  to  have  said  about  it; 
but  if  you  in  private  should  be  curious 
enough  to  enter  into  a  particular  detail  of 
facts  and  minute  circu^mstances,  the  bearer, 
who  was  witness  to  them,  will  probably 
satisfy  you.  All  I  shall  say  more  is.  that  I 
am  for  the  present  extremely  well  lodged 
here,  and  as  quiet  as  in  the  Grande  Char- 
treuse; and  that  every  body  (even  Dr  Long 
himself)  are  as  civil  as  they  could  be  to 
Maryt  of  Valens  in  person. 

•  The  reason  of  Mr.  Gray's  changing  his  college  which  is  here 
only  glasiced  at,  was  iis  few  words  this  :  two  or  thne  youiig  men 
of  fortire,  v. ho  li»M!  r  th(  same  staircast,  had  > or  dm  time 
intentionally  disturlied  him  with  the^r  rots  and  earned  tluir  ill 
bf'havioKr  so  far  as  htqncDtly  to  awaken  liirn  at  niidiight  After 
having  borne  »vith  thf:r  nstilts  longtr  tba-  rtiijiht  ressonahlj  have 
been  ex|»fccted  even  front  a  ntan  of  less  wamitb  of  temptr,  Mr. 
Gra  complained  f^'  thf  jiovtr.ing  c>art  of  the  society;  and  not 
thinking  that  his  remoustrance  was  sufficiently  attei'xied  to,  quitted 
tht  coll  -ge.  The  slight  manner  in  which  he  nientior>6  ihi.s  altair, 
whw.  writing  to  one  of  his  most  intimate  friendsi  certainly  does 
honour  to  the  placabilitj'  of  his  disposit-on 

t  Foundress  of  th«  College. 


GRAY*S    LETTERS.  11 

With  rea:arH  to  any  advice  I  can  give  you 
about  your  beins;  physician  to  the  hospital, 
I  frankly  own  it  ought  to  give  way  to  a 
much  better  judge,  especially  so  disinterest- 
ed a  one  as  Dr.  Heberden.  I  love  refusals 
no  more  than  you  do.  But  as  to  your  fears 
of  ^^ifluvia,  I  maintain  that  one  sick  rich 
patient  has  more  of  pestilence  and  putrefac- 
tion about  him  than  a  whole  ward  of  sick 
poor. 

The  similitude  between  the  Italian  re- 
publics and  those  of  ancient  Greece  has 
often  struck  me,  as  it  does  you.  I  do  not 
wonder  that  Sully's  Memoirs 'have  hi-rhly 
entertained  you;  but  cannot  agree  with  you 
in  tiiinking  him  or  his  master  two  of  the  best 
men  in  the  world.  The  king  was  indeed 
one  of  the  best-nntured  men  that  ever  lived; 
but  it  is  owing  only  to  chance  that  bis  in- 
tended marriage  with  madame  d'Estrees,  or 
with  the  marquis  de  Vernenil,  did  not  in- 
volve him  and  the  kingdom  in  the  most  in- 
extricable confision;  and  his  design  upon 
the  princess  of  Conde  (in  his  old  age)  was 
worse  still.  As  to  the  minister,  liis  base 
ay>plication  to  Concini,  after  the  murder  of 
Henry,  has  quite  ruined  him  in  mv  esteem, 
and  destroyed  all  the  merit  of  that  honest 
surly  pride  for  which  1  honoured  him  be- 


i-i  GRAY  S  LETTERS. 

fore;  yet  I  own  that,  as  kings  and  ministers 
go,  they  were  both  extraordinary  men. 
Pray  look  at  the  end  of  Birch's  state  papers 
of  sir  J.  Edmonds,  for  the  character  of  the 
French  court  at  that  time;  it  is  written  by 
sir  George  Carew. 

You  should  have  received  Mason's  pre- 
sent* last  Saturday.  I  desire  you  to  tell  me 
your  critical  opinion  of  the  new  odes,  and 
also  whether  you  have  found  out  two  lines 
which  he  has  inserted  in  his  third  to  a 
friend,  which  are  superlative.!  We  ao  not 
expect  the  world,  which  is  just  going  to  be 
invaded,  will  bestow  much  attention  on  them; 
if  you  hear  any  thing,  you  will  tell  us. 

*  The  four  odes  which  I  had  just  published  separately. 

■f  I  should  leare  the  reader  to  guess  (if  he  thought  it  worth  Ins 
Trhile)  what  this  couplet  was,  which  is  here  comuiended  so  much 
beyond  its  merit,  did  not  the  ode  conclude  with  a  compliment  to 
Mr  Gray,  in  which  part  he  might  probably  look  for  it,  as  those 
lines  were  written  with  the  greater  care.  To  secure,  therefore, 
my  friend  from  any  imputation  of  vanity,  whatever  becomes  ol 
myself,  I  shall  here  insert  the  passage. 

While  through  the  west,  where  sinks  the  crimson  day. 
Meek  twilight  slowly  sails,  and  waves  her  banners  grey. 


oray's  letters.  13 

XCI. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

June^  14,  1756* 

Though  I  allow  abundance  for  your  kind- 
aess  and  partiality  to  me,  I  am  yet  much 
pleased  with  the  good  opinion  you  seem  to 
Lave  of  the  Bard:  I  have  not,  however, 
done  a  word  more  than  the  little  you  have 
seen,  having  been  in  a  very  listless,  unplea- 
sant, and  inutile  state  of  mind  for  this  long 
time,  for  which  I  shall  beg  you  to  prescribe 
me  somewhat  strengthening  and  agglutinant, 
lest  it  turn  to  a  conlirmed  phthisis. 

I  recommend  two  little  French  books  to 
you,  one  called  Memoirs  de  M.  de  la  Porte;  it 
has  all  the  air  of  simplicity  and  truth,  and 
contains  some  few  very  extraordinary  facts 
relating  to  Anne  of  Austria  and  cardinal  Ma- 
zarine. The  other  is  in  two  small  volumes, 
"  Memoires  de  Madame  Staal."  The  facts 
are  no  great  matter,  but  the  manner  and 
vivacity  make  them  interesting.  She  was 
a  sort  of  confidante  to  the  late  duchess  of 
Maine,  and  imprisoned  a  long  time  on  her 
account  during  the  regency. 


14  gray's  letters. 

I  ought  before  now  to  have  thanked  you 
for  your  kinil  ofler,  vviiich  I  nif  an  soon  to 
accept,  for  a  reason  which  to  be  sure  can 
be  none  to  you  and  Mrs.  Wharton;  and  there- 
fore 1  think  it  my  duty  to  give  you  notice  of 
it.  I  have  told  you  already  of  my  mental 
ailments;  and  it  is  a  very  possible  thing  also 
that  I  may  be  bodily  ill  again  in  town,  which 
I  would  not  choose  to  be  in  a  dirty  incon\  e- 
nient  lodging,  where,  perhaps,  my  nurse 
might  stitie  me  with  a  pillow;  and  therefore 
it  is  no  wonder  if  I  prefer  your  house: 
but  I  tell  you  of  this  in  time,  that  if  either 
of  you  are  frightened  at  the  thoughts  of  a 
sick  body,  you  may  make  a  handsome  ex- 
cuse, and  save  yourselves  this  trouble.  You 
are  not  however  to  iu.agine  that  my  illness 
is  in  esse;  no,  it  is  only  m  posse;  otherwise 
I  should  be  scrupulous  of  bringing  it  home 
to  you.  I  think  I  shall  be  with  you  in  about 
a  fortnight. 


XCII. 

TO    MR.    MASON. 

Stoke,  July  25, 1756. 

1  FEEL  a  contrition  for  my  long  silenc  ,  and 
yet  perhaps  it  is  the  last  thing  you  trouble 


gray's  letters.  15 

your  head  about.  Nevertheless,  I  will  be 
as  sorry  as  if  you  took  it  ill.  I  am  sorry  too 
to  see  you  so  punctilious  as  to  stand  upon 
answers,  and  never  to  come  near  me  till  I 
have  regularly  left  my  name  at  your  door, 
like  a  mercer's  wife,  that  imitates  peoj>le 
who  go  a  visiting.  I  would  forgive  you  this, 
if  you  could  possibly  suspect  1  were  doing 
any  thing  that  I  liked  better;  for  then  your 
formality  might  look  like  being  piqued  at 
my  negligence,  which  has  somewhat  in  it 
like  kindness:  but  you  know  1  am  at  Stoke, 
hearing,  seeing,  doing  absolutely  nothing. 
Not  such  a  nothing  as  you  do  at  Tunbridge, 
chequered  and  diversified  with  a  succession 
of  fleeting  colours;  but  heavy,  lifeless,  with- 
out form  and  void;  sometimes  almost  as 
black  as  the  moral  of  Voltaire's  Lisbon,* 
which  angers  you  so.  I  have  had  no  more 
muscular  inflations,  and  am  only  troubled 
with  this  depression  of  mind  You  would 
not  expect  therefore  I  should  give  you  any 
account  of  my  vcrve^  which  is  at  best  (you 
know)  of  so  delicate  a  constitution,  and  has 
such  weak  nerves,  as  not  to  stir  out  of  its 
chamber  above  three  days  in  a  year.  But  I 
shall  inquire  after  yours,  and  why  it  is  off 

*  His  poem  "  Bur  la  Destruction  de  Lisbon,"  published  about 
that  time. 


16  gray's  letters. 

again  ?  It  has  certainly  worse  nerves  than 
mine,  if  your  reviewers  have  frighted  it. 
Sure  I  (not  to  mention  a  score  of  your  other 
critics)  am  something  a  better  judge  than  all 
the  man  mid  wives  and  Presbyterian  parsons* 
that  ever  were  born.  Pray  give  me  leave 
to  ask  yon,  do  you  find  yourself  tickled  with 
the  commendations  of  such  people  ?  (for  you 
have  your  share  of  these  too)  I  dare  say  not; 
your  vanity  has  certainly  a  better  taste. 
And  can  then  the  censure  of  such  critics 
move  you  ?  I  own  it  is  an  impertinence  in 
these  gentry  to  talk  of  one  at  all  either  in 
good  or  in  bad;  but  this  we  must  all  swal- 
low: I  mean  not  only  we  that  write,  but  all 
the  rve\'i  that  ever  did  any  thing  to  be  talked 
of. 

While  I  am  writing  I  receive  yours,  and 
rejoice  to  find  that  the  genial  influences  of 
this  fine  season,  which  produce  nothing  in 
me,  have  hatched  high  and  unimaginable  fan- 
tasies in  you.t  I  see,  methinks,  as  l  sit  on 
Snowdon,  some  glimpse  of  Mona  and  her 
haunted  shades,  and  hope  we  shall  be  very 
good  neighbours.     Any  Druidical  anecdotes 

*  Tlie  Reviewers,  at  tbe  timp,  were  supposed  to  be  of  Uiese  pro- 
fessions. 

1 1  had  sent  him  my  first  idea  of  Caractacus,  drawu  out  in  a 
short  argument. 


gray's  letters.  17 

that  I  can  meet  with,  I  will  be  sure  to  send 
you  wiien  I  return  to  Cambridge;  but  I  can- 
not pretend  "to  be  learned  without  books,  or 
toktjow  the  Druids  fi  om  modern  bishops  at 
this  distance.  I  can  only  tell  you  not  to  go 
and  take  Mona  for  tiie  Isle  of  Man:  it  is 
Anglesey,  a  tract  of  plain  country,  very  fer- 
tile, but  picturesque  only  from  the  view  it 
has  of  Caernarvonshire,  from  which  it  is 
separated  by  the  Menai,  a  narrow  arm  of  ihe 
sea.  Forgive  me  for  supposing  in  you  such 
a  want  of  erudition. 

I  congratulate  you  on  our  glorious  suc- 
cesses in  the  Mediterranean.  Shall  we  go 
in  time,  and  hire  a  house  together  in  Swit- 
zerland? It  is  a  fine  poetical  country  to  look 
at,  and  nobody  there  will  understand  a  word 
we  say  or  write. 


XCIII. 

TO   MR.  MASON. 

Cambridge,  May,  1757. 

You  are  so  forgetful  of  me  that  I  should  not 
forgive  it,  but  that  I  suppose  Caractacus  may 
be  the  better  for  it.  Yet  I  hear  nothing 
from  him  neither,  in  spite  of  his  promises: 
roL.  IV.  38 


18  gray's  letters. 

there  is  no  faith  in  man,  no  not  in  a  Welsh- 
man; and  yet  Mr.  Parry*  has  been  here, 
and  scratched  out  such  ravishing  bhnd  har- 
mony, such  tunes  of  a  thousand  years  old, 
with  names  enough  to  choak  you,  as  have 
bet  all  this  learned  body  a  dancing,  and  in- 
spired them  with  due  reverence  for  my  old 
Bard  his  countryman,  when  he  shall  appear. 
Mr.  Parry,  you  must  know,  has  put  my  ode 
in  motion  again,  and  has  brought  it  at  last  to 
a  conclusion.  'Tis  to  him,  therefore,  that 
you  owe  the  treat  which  I  send  you  en- 
closed ;  namely,  the  breast  and  merry- 
thought, and  rump  too  of  the  chicken  which 
1  have  been  chewing  so  long,  that  I  would 
give  the  world  for  neck-beef  or  cow-heel. 

You  will  observe,  in  the  beginning  of  this 
thing,  some  alterations  of  a  few  words,  partly 
for  improvement,  and  partly  to  avoid  repeti- 
tions of  like  words  and  rhymes;  yet  I  have 
not  got  rid  of  them  all;  the  six  last  lines  of 
the  fifth  stanza  are  new  ;  tell  me  whether 
they  will  do.  I  am  well  aware  of  many 
weakly  things  towards  the  conclusion,  but  I 
hope  the  end  itself  will  do;  give  me  your 
full  and  true  opinion,  and  that  not  upon  de- 

*  A  capital  performer  on  the  Welsh  harp,  and  who  was  cither 
bom  blind,  or  bad  been  se  froia  his  infeoej. 


gray's  letters.  19 

liberation,  but  forthwith.  Mr.  Hurd  himself 
aUows  that  Lyon  port  is  not  too  bold  for 
queen  Elizabeth. 

I  have  got  the  old  Scotch  ballad  on  which 
Douj^las*  was  founded;  it  is  divine,  and  as 
long  as  from  hence  to  Aston.  Have  you 
never  seen  it?  Aristotle's  best  rules  are  ob- 
served in  it,  in  a  manner  that  shows  the 
author  had  never  read  Aristotle.  It  begins 
in  the  iifth  act  of  the  play:  you  may  read  it 
two  thirds  through  without  guessing  what  it 
is  about;  and  yet,  when  you  come  to  the  end, 
it  is  impossible  not  to  understand  the  whole 
story.  I  send  you  the  two  first  stanzas. 
****** 

*  He  had  a  high  opinion  of  this  first  drama  of  Mr,  Home.  In  a 
letter  to  another  friend,  dated  August  lO,  this  year,  he  says,  "  I  am 
greatly  struck  with  the  tragedy  of  Douglas,  though  it  has  infinite 
faults.  The  author  seenis  to  me  to  have  retrieved  the  true  lan- 
guage of  the  stage,  wliich  had  been  lost  for  these  hundred  years ; 
and  there  is  one  scene  (betvi^een  Matilda  and  the  old  peasant)  so 
masterly  that  it  strikes  me  blind  to  all  the  defects  in  the  world." 
The  ballad,  which  he  here  applauds,  is  to  bt;  found  in  Dr.  Percy's 
Reliques  of  Ancient  Piietry,  a  work  published  after  the  date  of  tfik 
letter. 


20 


XCIV. 


TO  MR.  WALPOLE. 


Stoke,  July  11,  175*c 

1  WILL  not  give  you  the  trouble  of  sending 
your  chaise  for  me.  I  intend  to  be  with  you 
on  Wednesday  in  the  evening.  If  the  press 
stands  still  all  this  time  for  me,  to  be  sure  it 
is  dead  in  child-bed. 

I  do  not  love  notes,  though  you  see  I  had 
resolved  to  put  two  or  three.*  They  are 
signs  of  weakness  and  obscurity.  If  a  thing 
cannot  be  underst  )od  without  them,  it  had 
better  be  not  understood  at  all.  If  you  will 
be  vulgar,  and  pronounce  li  Limnun,  instead 
of  London,!  I  can't  help  it.  Caradoc  I 
have  private  reasons  against;  and  besides 
it  is  in  reality  Cara Joe,  and  will  not  stand  in 
the  verse. 

I  rejoice  you  can  fill  all  your  vuides :  the 
Maintenon  could  not,  and  that  was  her  great 
misfortune.  Seriously  though,  1  congratu- 
late you  on  your  happiness,  and  seem  to  un- 
derstand it.     The  receipt  is  obvious  :  it  is 

*  To  the  Bai-d.    B. 

t "  Ye  towers  of  Julia,  London's  lasting  shame."   B.  v.  87.    B» 


grab's  letters.  21 

only,  Have  something  to  do;  but  how  few 
can  apply  iti    Adieu! 


xcv. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

I  AM  SO  charmed  with  the  two  specimens  of 
Erse  poetry,  that  I  cannot  help  giving  you 
the  trouble  to  inquire  a  little  farther  about 
them,  and  should  wish  to  see  a  few  lines  of 
the  original,  that  I  may  form  some  slight 
idea  of  the  language,  the  measures,  and  the 
rhythm. 

Is  there  any  thing  known  of  the  author  or 
authors,  and  of  what  antiquity  are  they  sup- 
posed to  be  ? 

Is  there  any  more  to  be  had  of  equal 
beauty,  or  at  all  approaching  to  ii  ? 

I  have  often  been  told  that  tlie  poem  call- 
ed Hardicnute  (which  I  always  admired,  and 
still  admire)  was  the  work  of  somebody  that 
lived  a  few  years  ago.*     This  1  do  not  at  all 

•  It  has  been  supposed  the  work  of  a  lady  cf  tlie  came  of  Wavd- 
law,  who  died  in  Scotland  not  man>  yi  ars  aat)  but  upon  no  better 
evitte^ce,  that  I  could  ever  learn,  than  chat  a  copy  of  the  poem 
with  some  erasures  was  found  anjong  h-r  papers  -after  hev  death. 
Jifo  proof  surely  of  its  original  coiuposition,  as  few  but  ptrsons  ©f 


22  gray's  letters. 

believe,  thoiip;h  it  hns  evidently  been  re- 
touched in  places  by  some  modern  hand: 
but.  however,  I  am  authorized  hy  this  re- 
port to  ask,  whether  the  two  poems  in  ques- 
tion are  certainly  antique  and  p:enuine.  I 
make  this  inquiry  in  quality  of  an  antiquary, 
and  am  not  otherwise  concerned  about  it: 
for,  if-  I  were  sure  that  any  one  now  living 
in  Scotland  had  written  them  to  divert  him- 
self and  laugh  at  the  credulity  of  the  world, 
I  would  undertake  a  journey  into  the  High- 
lands only  for  the  pleasure  of  seeing  him. 


XCVI. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

1  HAVE  been  very  ill  this  week  with  a  great 
cold  and  a  fever,  and,  though  now  in  a  way 
to  be  well,  am  like  to  be  contined  some 
days  longer:  whatever  j^ou  will  send  me  that 
is  new  or  old,  and  /o»r,  will  he  received  as 
a  charity  Rousseau's  people  do  not  inter- 
est me;  there  is  but  one  character  and  one 
style  in  them  all;    I  do  not  know  their  faces 

business,  which  women  seldom  are,  take  the  precaution  of  dock- 
etting.  or  writing  "  Copy"  upon  every  thing  they  may  tran- 
scribe.   B. 


gray's  letters.  23 

asuntler.  I  have  no  esteem  for  their  per- 
sons or  contlnct,  am  not  touched  with  tiieir 
passions;  and  as  to  their  story,  1  do  not  be- 
lieve a  word  of  it — not  because  it  is  impro- 
bable, but  because  it  is  absurd.  If  1  had 
an_y  little  propensity,  it  was  to  Julie;  but 
now  she  has  gone  and  (so  hand  over  bend) 
married  that  monsieur  de  Wolmar,  1  take 
her  for  a  vrair  Sui.sscssc,  and  do  not  d(;ubt 
but  she  had  taken  a  cup  too  much,  like  her 
lover,*  All  this  does  not  imply  that  I  will 
not  read  it  out,  when  you  can  spare  the 
rest  of  it. 


XCVII. 

TO    MR.    nURD, 

Stoke,  August  25,  1757. 

I   DO   not  know  why  you  should   thank    me 
for  what  you  had  a  right  and   title    to;t  but 

•  Were  not  the  public  already  in  possession  of  Mr.  Gray's 
opinion  of  the  Nouvelle  Heloise,  in  his  letters  published  by  Mr. 
Mason— how  would  such  a  criticism,  from  such  a  critic,  astonish 
all  those  more  happily  constituted  readers,  who,  capable  of 
appreciating  varied  excellence,  have  perhaps  read  with  equa^ 
delight  the  exquisite  odes  of  the  one  author,  and  the  extraordinary 
and  (with  all  its  faults)  inimitable  romance  of  the  other-    B, 

t  A  present  of  his  two  Pindaric  odes  just  then  puhlishetl. 


24  gray's  letters. 

attribute  it  to  the  excess  of  your  politeness; 
and  the  more  so,  because  almost  no  one  else 
has  made  me  the  same  compliment.  As 
your  acquaintance  in  the  university  (you 
say)  do  me  the  honour  to  admire^  it  would 
be  ungenerous  in  me  not  to  give  them  notice, 
that  they  are  doing  a  very  unfashionable 
thing;  for  all  people  of  condition  are  agreed 
not  to  admire,  nor  even  to  understand.  One 
very  great  man,  writing  to  an  acquaintance 
of  his  and  mine,  says  that  he  had  read  thf>m 
seven  or  eight  times;  ar^d  that  now,  when  he 
next  sees  him,  he  shall  not  have  above 
thirty  questions  to  ask.  Another  (a  peer) 
believes  that  the  last  stanza  of  the  second 
ode  relates  to  kingCharles  the  first  and  Oliver 
Cromwell.  Even  my  friends  tell  me  they 
do  not  svcce(d^  and  write  me  moving  topics 
of  consolation  on  that  head.  In  short,  I 
have  heard  of  nobody  but  an  actor  and  a 
doctor  of  divinity  that  profess  their  esteem 
for  them.*     Oh    yes,    a  lady    of  quality   (a 

*  This  was  written  August  25,  1757.  An  extract  from  a  letter 
of  Mr  Gray  to  Dr.  Whaiton,  dated  October  7,  1757,  mentions 
•another  admirer  whom  he  knew  how  to  value-  "  Dr.  Warburton 
is  come  to  town,  and  I  am  told  likes  them  extremely  ;  he  says  the 
world  never  passed  so  j  ust  an  opinion  upon  any  thing  as  upon 
them  :  for  that  in  other  things  they  have  affected  to  like  or  dislike  : 
.vhf  ro«s  kcre  they  own  they  do  not  understand,  which  he  looks  upon 


gray's  letters.  25 

friend  of  Mason's)  who  is  a  great  reader. 
She  kne«v  there  was  a  compliment  to  Dry- 
den,  but  never  suspected  there  was  any- 
thing said  about  Shakspeare  or  Milton,  till  it 
was  explained  to  her;  and  wishes  that  there 
had  been  titles  prefixed  to  tell  what  they 
were  about. 

From  this  mention  of  Mason's  tiame,  you 
may  think,  perhaps,  we  are  great  corres- 
pondents. No  such  thing;  I  have  not  heard 
from  him  these  two  months.  I  will  be  sure 
to  scold  in  my  own  name,  as  well  as  in  yours. 
I  rejoice  to  hear  you  are  so  ripe  for  the 
press,  and  so  voluminous;  not  for  my  own 
sake  only,  whom  you  flatter  with  the  hopes 
of  seeing  your  labours  both  public  and  pri- 
vate, but  for  yours  too;  for  to  be  employed 
is  to  be  happy.  This  principle  of  mine  (and 
J  am  convinced  of  its  truth)  has,  as  usual,  no 
influence  on  my  practice.  I  am  alone,  and 
ennuye  to  the  last  degree,  yet  do  nothing. 
Indeed  I  have  one  excuse;  my  health  (which 

t«  be  very  true;  but  yet  thinks  they  understand  them  as  well  as 
Milton  or  Shakspeare,  whom  they  are  obliged,  by  fashion,  to 
admire.  Mr.  Garrick's  complimentary  verses  to  me  you  have  seen  5 
I  am  told  they  were  printed  in  the  ChiX)niele  of  last  Saturday. 
The  Ciitical  Review  ii  in  raptures  ;  bxit  mistakes  the  .(Eolian  Lyre 
for  the  Harp  of  iEoIus,  and  on  this  pleasant  etror  founds  both  a 
compliment  and  a  criticism.  This  is  all  I  heard  that  signifies  any 
thing." 


GRAY  S    LETTERS. 


yon  have  so  kindly  inquired  after)  is  not  ex- 
tro«  rdinary,  ever  since  I  came  hitheik'  It  is 
no  great  malady,  but  several  little  ones,  that 
seem  brewing  no  good  to  me.  It  will  be  a 
particular  pleasure  to  me  to  hear  whether 
content  dwells  in  Leicestershire,  and  how 
she  entertains  herself  there.  Only  do  not 
be  too  happy,  nor  forget  entirely  the  quiet 
ugliness  of  Cambridge. 


XCVIII. 

TO    MR.    MASON. 

Stoke,  Sept.  28, 1757. 

I  HAVE  (as  I  desired  Mr.  Stonhewer  to  tell  you) 
read  over  Caractacus  twice,  not  with  pleasure 
only,  but  with  emotion.  You  may  say  what 
you  will;  but  the  contrivance,  the  manners, 
the  interests,  the  passions,  and  the  expression, 
go  beyond  the  dramatic  part*  of  your  £Jfrida, 

*  In  the  raanuseript  now  before  him,  Mr.  Gray  bad  only  the  first 
«de,  the  others  were  not  then  written  ;  and  although  the  dramatic 
part  was  brought  to  a  conclusion,  yet  it  was  afterwards  in  many 
places  altered.  He  was  mistaken  with  regard  to  the  opinion  the 
world  would  have  about  it.  That  world,  which  usually  kves  to  be 
led  ;n  such  matters,  rather  than  form  an  opinion  to  itself  was 
taugh  t  a  different  sea^ment ;  and  one  of  its  leaders  went  so  far  as 


gray's  letters.  27 

many  many  leagues.  I  even  say  (though 
you  will  think  me  a  bad  judge  of  this)  that 
the  world  will  like  it  better.  I  am  struck 
with  the  chorus  who  are  not  there  merely 
to  sing  and  dance,  but  bear  throughout  a 
principal  pfirtin  the  action;  and  have  (beside 
the  costume,  which  is  excellent)  as  much  a 
character  of  their  own,  as  any  other  person. 
I  am  charmed  with  their  priestly  pride  and 
obstinacy,  when,  after  all  is  lost,  they  re- 
solve to  confront  the  Roman  general,  and  spit 
in  hi^i  face.  But  now  1  am  going  to  tell  you 
what  touches  me  most  from  the  bej^inning. 
The  tirst  opening  is  greatly  improved:  the 
cuiiosity  of  Didius  is  now  a  very  natural 
reason  for  dvvelling  on  each  particular  of  the 
scene  before  him;  nor  is  the  description  at 
all  too  long.  I  am  gl^^d  to  find  the  two 
young  men  are  Cartismandua's  sons  They 
interest  me  far  more.  I  love  people  of  ron- 
dition.     They  were  men  before  that  nobody 

to  declare,  that  he  nerer  knew  a  second  work  fall  so  much  below  a 
first  irora  the  same  hand  To  oppose  Mr.  Gray's  judgment  to  hisj 
I  must  own  givf  s  me  some  satisfaction;  ai;d  to  enjoy  it,  I  am 
willing  to  risk  that  imputation  of  vanity,  which  may  probably  fall 
to  my  share  for  having  published  this  letter  I  must  add,  howtvar, 
that  some  of  my  friends  advised  it  for  the  sake  of  the  more  generai 
criticisms  which  they  thought  t«o  Taluable  tQ  be  suppressed 


28  GRAY  S  LETTERS. 

knew:  one  could  not  make  them  a  bow  if 
one  had  met  them  at  a  public  place. 

I  always  admired  that  interruption  of  the 
Druids  to  Evelina,  Peace,  virgin,  peace,  &c. 
and  chietly  the  abstract  idea  personified  (to 
use  the  words  of  a  critic)  at  the  end  of  it. 
That  of  Caractacus,  Would  save  my  queen^  &.c. 
and  still  more  that,  /  know  it,  reverend  fa- 
thers, His  Heaven\s  high  will,  kc.  to  Fve  done, 
begin  the  rites !  This  latter  is  exemplary 
for  the  expression  (always  the  great  point 
with  me);  I  do  not  mean  by  expression 
the  mere  choice  of  words,  but  the  whole 
dress,  fashion,  and  arrangement  of  a  thought. 
Here,  in  particular,  it  is  the  brokennes«, 
the  uAgrammatical  position,  the  total  subver- 
sion of  the  period  that  charms  me.  All  that 
ushers  in  the  incantation  from  Try  we  yet, 
what  holiness  can  do,  I  am  delighted  with  in 
quite  another  w.iy;  for  this  is  pure  poetry, 
as  it  ought  to  be,  forming  the  proper  transi- 
tion, and  leading  on  the  mind  to  that  still 
purer  poetr}^  that  follows  it. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  succeeding  act,  I 
admire  the  chorus  again.  Is  it  not  now  the 
hour,  the  holy  hour,  &c.  and  their  evasion  of 
a  lie,  Say'^st  thou,  proud  boy,  &c.  and  skep 
with  the  unsunn''d  silver,  which  is  an  example 
ef  a  dramatic  simile.     The  sudden  appear- 


«ray's  letters.  29 

ance  of  Caractacus,  the  pretended  respect 
and  admiration  of  Vellinus,and  the  probability 
of  his  story,  the  distrust  of  the  Druids,  and 
their  reasoning  with  Caractacus,  and  par- 
ticularly that  'Tis  m€(t  thou  shouldst^  tiiou 
art  a  king,  &lc.  and  Mark  inc,  p,ince,  the 
time  will  come,  when  destiny,  k,c.  are  well, 
and  happily  imagined.  Apropos,  of  the  last 
stiiking  passage  1  have  mentioned,  I  am  going 
to  make  a  digression. 

When  we  treat  a  subject,  where  the  man- 
ners are  almost  lost  in  antiquit}^^,  our  stock  of 
ideas  must  needs  be  sm;dl;  atid  nothing  be- 
trays our  poverty  more,  than  the  returning 
to,  and  harping  frequently  on,  one  image. 
It  was  therefore  I  thought  30U  should  omit 
some  lines  before,  though  good  in  them- 
selves, about  the  scifthcd  car,  that  the  pas- 
sage now  before  us  might  appear  with 
greater  lustre  when  it  came;  and  in  this  I 
see  you  have  complied  with  me.  But  there 
are  other  ideas  here  and  there  still,  that 
occur  too  often,  particularly  about  the  oaks, 
some  of  which  1  would  discard  to  make 
way  for  the  rest. 

But  the  subjects  I  speak  of  to  compen- 
sate (and  more  than  con:»pen3ate)  that  un- 
avoidable poverty,  have  one  great  advan- 
tage, when  they  fail  into  good  hands.     They 


30  gray's  letters. 

leave  an  unbounded  liberty  to  pure  imagi- 
nation and  liction  (our  favourite  provinces), 
where  no  critic  can  molest,  or  antiquary 
gainsay  us;  and  yet  (to  please  me)  tiiese 
tictions  must  have  some  affinity,  some  seem- 
ing connexion,  with  that  little  we  really 
know  of  the  character  and  customs  of  the 
people.  For  example,  I  never  heard  in 
my  days  that  midnight  and  the  moon  were 
sisters;  that  th^  y  carried  rods  of  ebony  and 
gold,  or  met  to  whisper  on  the  top  of  a 
mountain:  but  now  1  could  lay  my  life  it 
is  all  true;  and  do  not  doubt  it  will  be 
found  so  in  some  pantheon  of  the  Druids, 
•that  is  to  be  discovered  in  the  library  at 
Herculaneum.  The  Car  of  Destiny  and 
Death,  is  a  very  noble  invention  of  the 
same  class,  and,  as  far  as  that  goes,  is  so 
fine,  that  it  makes  me  more  delicate,  than 
perhaps  I  should  be,  about  the  close  of  it. 
Andraste  sailing  on  the  wings  of  Fame,  that 
snatches  the  wreaths  from  oblivion  to  hang 
them  on  her  loftiest  Amaranth,  though  a 
clear  and  beautiful  piece  of  unknown  my- 
thology, has  too  Greek  an  air  to  give  me 
perfect  satisfaction. 

Now  I  proceed.  The  preparation  to  the 
chorus,  though  po  much  akin  to  that  in  the 
former  act,  is  excellent.       The  remarks  of 


gray's  letters.  31 

Evelina  and  her  suspicions  of  the  brothers, 
mixed  with  a  secret  inclination  tothejoun- 
ger  of  them  (though,  I  think,  her  part 
throughout  wants  re-touching)  yet  please  me 
much,  and  the  contrivance  of  the  following 
scene  much  more.  Masters  of  Wisdo.n.  no, 
&c.  I  id  ways  admired;  as  I  do  the  rocking 
stone,  and  the  distress  of  Elidurus  Eveli- 
na's examination  of  him  is  a  vvell  invented 
scene,  and  will  be,  with  a  little  pains,  a 
very  touching  oiie;  but  the  introduction  of 
Arviragus  is  superlative.  I  am  not  sure 
whether  those  few  lines  of  his  short  narra- 
tive, Mi/  strength  repaired  At  boots  not,  that  I 
teit^  &.C.  do  not  please  me  as  much  as  any 
thing  in  the  whole  drama.  The  sullen  bra- 
very of  Elidurus,  the  menaces  of  the  cho- 
rus, that  Think  not,  religion,  &c.  the  trum- 
pet of  the  Druids,  ihixiVll  follow  himAhoiigh 
in  my  chains,  &lc.  Hast  thou  a  brother,  no, 
&,c.  the  placability  of  the  chorus,  when  they 
see  the  motives  of  Elidurus'-  obstinacy,  give 
me  great  contentment:  so  do  the  reflections 
of  the  Druid  on  the  necessity  of  lustration, 
and  the  reasons  for  V^ellinus's  easy  escape; 
but  I  would  not  have  hi  n  seise  on  a  spear, 
nor  issue  hasty  through  the  cavern\s  mouth. 
Why  should  he  not  steal  away,  unasked  and 
vinmissed,  till  the  hurry  of  passions  in  those, 


32  gray's  letters. 

that  should  have  guarded  him,  was  a  little 
abated?  But  I  chiefly  admire  the  two  speeches 
of  Elidurus;  Ah,  Veilinus.,  is  this  then,  &c. 
and  Ye  do  gaze  on  mc,  tuthir.s,  &c.  the  man- 
ner in  which  the  chorus  reply  to  him  is 
very  fine;  but  the  image  at  the  end  wants  a 
little  mending.  The  next  scene  is  highly 
moving!  it  is  so  very  good,  that  I  must  have 
it  made  yet  belter. 

Now  for  the  hist  act.  I  do  not  know 
what  you  would  have,  but  to  me  the  design 
and  contrivance  of  it  is  at  least  equal  to  any 
part  of  the  whole.  The  short-  lived  triumph 
of  the  Britons,  the  address  of  Caractacus  to 
the  Roman  victims,  Evelina's  discovery  of 
the  ambush,  the  mistake  of  the  Roman  fires 
for  the  rising  sun,  the  death  of  Arviragus, 
the  interview  between  Didius  and  Caracta- 
cus, his  mourning  over  his  dead  son,  his 
parting  speech  (in  which  you  have  made  all 
tne  use  of  Tacitus  that  your  plan  would  ad- 
mit), every  thing,  in  short,  but  that  little  dis- 
pute between  Didius  and  him;  '7'iA  well;  and 
thfrefore  to  incnafic  that  reverence,  &c.  down 
to  Give  me  a  moment  (which  must  be  omitted, 
or  put  in  the  mouth  of  the  Druids),  I  ap- 
prove in  the  highest  degree.  If  I  should 
find  any  fliult  with  the  last  act,  it  could  only 
be   with   trifles   and   little   expressions.     If 


GRAY  S    LETTERS. 


you  make  any  alterations,  I  fear  it  will 
never  improve  it;  I  mean  as  to  the  plan.  I 
send  you  back  the  two  last  sheets,  because 
you  bid  me.  I  reserve  my  nibblings  and 
minutiae  for  another  day. 


XCIX. 

to    MR.    MASON. 

Cambridge,   Dee.  19,  1757. 

\  LIFE  Spent  out  of  the  world  has  its  Lours 
■  if  despondence,  its  inconveniences,  its  suf- 
ferings, as  numerous  and  as  real,  though  not 
quite  of  the  same  sort,  as  a  life  spent  in  the 
midst  of  it.  The  power  we  have,  when  we 
will  exert  it  over  our  own  minds,  joined  to 
a  little  strength  and  consolation,  nay,  a  little 
pride  we  catch  from  those  that  seem  to  love 
us,  is  our  only  support  in  either  of  these 
conditions.  I  am  sensible  I  cannot  return 
you  more  of  this  assistance  than  1  have  re- 
ceived from  you;  and  can  only  toil  you, 
that  one  who  has  far  more  reason  than  you, 
I  hope,  ever  will  have  to  look  on  life  with 
something  worse  than  indifference,  is  yet  no 
enemy  to  it;  but  can  look  backward  on 
many  bitter  moments,  partly  with  .satisfi'c- 

VOL.  IF.  19 


34  GRAV'S    LETTERS. 

tion,  and  partly  with  patience;  and  forward 
too,  on  a  scene  not  very  promising,  with 
some  hope,  and  some  expectations  of  a  bet- 
ter day.  The  cause,  however,  which  oc- 
casioned your  reflection  (though  I  can  judge 
but  very  imperfectly  of  it)  does  not  seem,  at 
present,  to  be  weighty  enough  to  make  you 
take  any  such  resolution  as  you  meditate. 
Use  it  in  its  season,  as  a  relief  from  what  is 
tiresome  to  you,  but  not  as  if  it  was  in  con- 
sequence of  any  thing  you  take  ill;  on  the 
contrary,  if  such  a  thing  had  happened  at 
the  time  of  your  transmigration,  I  would 
defer  it  merely  to  avoid  that  appearance. 

As  to  myself,  1  cannot  boast,  at  present, 
cither  of  my  spirits,  my  situation,  my  em- 
ployments, or  fertility.  The  days  and  the 
nights  pass,  and  I  am  never  the  nearer  to 
any  thing,  but  that  one  to  which  we  are  all 
tending;  yet  I  love  people  that  lenve  some 
traces  of  their  journey  behind  them,  and 
have  strength  enough  to  advise  you  to  do  so 
while  you  can.  I  expect  to  see  Caracta- 
cus  completed,  and  therefore  I  send  yov.  the 
books  you  wanted.  I  do  n-^t  know  whether 
they  will  furnish  you  with  Huy  new  matter; 
but  they  are  well  enough  written,  and  easily 
read.  I  told  you  before  that  (in  a  time  of 
dearth)    I    would   borrow   from   the    Edda, 


gray's  letters.  35 

without  entering  too  minutely  on  particulars: 
but,  if  I  did  so,  I  would  make  each  image  so 
clear,  that  it  mi2;ht  be  fully  understood  by 
itself;  for  in  this  obscure  mythology  we 
must  not  hint  at  things,  as  we  do  with  the 
Greek  fables,  that  every  body  is  supposed 
to  know  at  school.  However,  on  second 
thoughts,  I  think  it  would  be  still  better  to 
graft  any  wild  picturesque  fable,  absolutely 
of  one's  own  invention,  on  the  Druid-stock; 
1  mean  on  those  half  dozen  of  old  fancies 
that  are  known  to  be  a  part  of  their  system. 
This  will  give  you  more  freedom  and  lati- 
tude, and  will  leave  no  hold  for  the  critics 
to  fasten  on. 

I  send  you  back  the  elegy"^  as  you  desired 
me  to  do.  My  advices  are  always  at  your 
service  to  take  or  refuse,  therefore  you 
should  not  call  them  severe.  You  know  I 
do  not  love,  much  less  pique  myself  on  cri- 
ticism; and  think  even  a  bad  verse  as  good 
a  thing  or  better  than  the  best  observation 
that  ever  was  made  upon  it. — I  like  greatly 
the  spirit  and  sentiment  of  it  (much  of  which 
you  perhaps  owe  to  your  present  train  o£ 
thinking);  the  disposition  of  the  whole  too 
is  natural  and  elegiac;  as  to  the  expression, 

*  Elegy  in  the  garden  of  a  friend. 


36  gray's  letters. 

I  would  venture  to  say  (did  not  you  forbid 
me)  that  it  is  sometimes  too  easy.  The  last 
line  1  protest  against  (this,  you  will  say,  is 
worse  than  blotting  out  rhymes);  the  descrip- 
tive part  is  excellent. 

Pray,  when  did  1  pretend  to  finish,  or 
even  insert  passages  into  other  people's 
works,  as  if  it  were  equally  easy  to  pick 
holes  and  to  mend  them?  All  I  can  say  is, 
(hat  your  elegy  must  not  end  with  the  worst 
line  in  it.*  It  is  flat;  it  is  prose:  whereas 
that,  above  all,  ought  to  sparkle,  or  at  least 
to  shine.  If  the  sentiment  must  stand,  twirl 
it  a  little  into  an  apothegm;  stick  a  flower  in 
it;  gild  it  with  a  costly  expression;  let  it 
strike  the  fancy,  the  ear,  or  the  heart,  and 
I  am  satisfied. 

The  other  particular  expressions  which  I 
object  to,  I  mark  on  the  manuscript.  Novv, 
I  desire  you  would  neither  think  me  severe, 
nor  at  all  regard  what  1  say  further  than  as 
it  coincides  with  your  own  judgment,  for 
the  child  deserves  your  ])artiality;  it  is  a 
healthy  well-made  boy,  with  an  ingenuous 
countenance,  and  promises  to  live  long.     I 

*  All  attempt  was  accordingly  made  to  improve  it;  Jiow  it 
stood  when  this  cviticisra  upon  it  was  written,  I  cannot  now  iv- 
coHect. 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  3v 

would  only  wash  its  face,  dress  it  a  little, 
make  it  walk  upright  and  strong,  and  keep 
it  Iroin  learning  pa/v  words. 

I  hope  you  couched  my  refusal*  to  lord 
John  Cavendish  in  as  respectful  terms  as 
possible,  and  with  all  due  acknowledgment 
to  the  duke.  If  you  hear  who  it  is  to  be 
given  to,  pray  let  nie  know;  for  I  interest 
myself  a  little  in  the  history  of  it,  and  rather 
wish  somebody  may  accept  it  that  will  re- 
trieve the  credit  of  the  thing,  if  it  be  re- 
trievable, or  ever  had  any  credit. — Rowe 
was,  I  think,  the  last  man  of  character  that 
had  it;  Eusden  was  a  person  of  great  ho})es 
in  his  youth,  though  at  last  he  turned  out  a 
drunken  parson;  Dryden  was  as  disgraceful 
to  the  office,  from  his  character,  as  the  poor- 
est scribbler  could  have  been  from  his  verses. 


C. 


TO  DR.  WHARTOIV. 

February  21, 1758. 

Would  you  know  what  1  am  doing?   I  doubt 

*  of  bein?  poet  laureate  on  the  death  of  Cibber,  which  place 
the  late  duke  of  Devonshire  (then  loitl  chamberlain)  desired  his 
brother  to  ofFer  to  Mr.  Gray  :  aiid  his  lordship  had  commissioned 
me  Cthen  in  town)  to  write  to  him  concerning  it. 


38  gray's  letters. 

yon  have  been  told  already,  and  hold  my 
employments  cheap  enough;  but  every  one 
must  judge  of  his  own  capability,  and  cut  his 
amusements  according  to  his  disposition. 
The  drift  of  my  present  studies  is  to  know, 
wherever  I  am,  what  lies  within  reach  that 
may  be  worth  seeing,  whether  it  be  build- 
ing, ruin,  park,  garden,  prospect,  picture, 
or  monument;  to  whom  it  does  or  has  be- 
longed, and  what  has  been  the  characteristic 
and  taste  of  different  ages.  You  will  say 
this  is  the  object  of  all  antiquaries;  but  pray 
what  antiquary  ever  saw  these  objects  in  the 
same  light,  or  desired  to  know  them  for  a 
like  reason?  In  short,  say  what  you  please, 
I  am  persuaded  whenever  my  list*  is  finish- 
ed you  will  approve  it,  Rnd  think  it  of  no 
small  use.  My  spirits  are  very  near  the 
freezing  point;  and  for  some  hours  of  the 
day  this  exercise,  by  its  warmth  and  gentle 
motion,  serves  to  raise  them  a  few  degrees 
higher. 

I  hope  the  misfortune  that  has  befallen 
Mrs.  Gibber's  canary  bird  will  not  be  the 
ruin  of  Agis:  it  is  probable  you  will  have 
curiosity  enough  to  see  it,  as  it  is  by  the 
author  of  Douglas. 

*  He  wrote  it,  undef  its  seTeral  diyisions,  on  the  blank  pages  of 
a  pocket  atlas. 


gray's  letters.  39 


CI. 


TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Cambridge,  Marck  8, 175S. 

It  is  indeed  ibr  want  of  spirits,  as  you  sus- 
pect, that  my  studies  lie   aoiong  the  cathe- 
drals, and  the  tombs,  and  the  ruins.  To  think, 
though   to  little  purpose,  has  been  the  chief 
amusement  of  my  days;  and  when  1  would 
not,  or  cannot  think,  I  dream.     At  present 
I  feel  myself  able  to  write  a  catalogue,  or  to 
read  the  peerage  book,  or  Miller's  garden- 
ing dictionary    and  am  thankful  that   there 
are  such  employments  and  such  authors  in 
tlie    world.      Some   people,    who    hold    me 
cheap  for  this,  are  doing  perhaps  what  is  not 
half  so  well  worth  while.     As  to  posterity, 
I    may  ask,   (with  somebody   whom   I  have 
forgot)  what  has  it  ever  done  to  oblige  nie  ? 
To  make   a  transition  from  myself  to   as 
poor  a  subject,  the  tragedy  of  Agis;    1  cry  to 
think    that    it  should   be   by   the   author  of 
Douglas:  why,  it  is  all  modern  Greek;  the 
story  is  an  antique  statue  painted  white  and 
red,  frizzed,  and  dressed  in  a  negligee  made 
by  a  Yorkshire  mantua-maker.     Then  here 
is  the  miscellany  (Mr.  Dodsley  has  sent  me 


40  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

the  vvhole  set  gilt  and  lettered,  I  thank  him). 
Why,  the  two  last  volumes  are  worse  than 
the  tour  iirst;  particularly  Dr.  Akenside  is 
in  a  uoplorahle  way.*  What  signifies  learn- 
ing and  the  ancients?,  (Mtison  will  say  trium- 
phantly) why  should  people  read  Greek  to 
lose  their  imagination,  their  ear,  and  their 
mother  tongue  ?  But  then  there  is  Mr. 
Shenstooe,  who  trusts  to  nature  and  simple 
sentiment,  why  does  he  do  no  hetter?  he 
goes  hopping  along  his  own  gravel-walks, 
and  never  deviates  from  the  beaten  paths 
for  fear  of  being  lost. 

I  have  read  Dr.  Swift,  and  am  disappoint- 
ed.! There  is  nothing  of  the  negociations 
that  I  have  not  seen  better  in  M.  de  Torcy 

*  I  hare  been  told  that  this  writer,  unquestionatly  a  man  of  great 
learning  and  genius,  entertained,  some  years  liefore  his  death,  a  no- 
tion  tliat  Poetrif  was  only  true  eloquence  in  metre;  ar.d,  according 
to  this  idea,  wrote  his  ode  to  the  country  gentlemen  of  Ei;gl:\nd, 
and  afterwards  made  considerable  alterations  in  that  collection  of 
odes  which  he  had  published  in  the  earlier  part  of  his  life.  We 
have  seen  in  the  letter  LX,,  that  Mt.  Gray  thought  highly  of  his 
descriptive  talents  at  that  time.  We  are  not  therefore  to  impute 
what  he  here  says  to  any  prejudice  in  the  critic,  but  to  that  change 
of  taste  in  the  poet,  which  (if  the  above  arecdete  lie  true)  would 
unavoidably  flatten  his  descriptions,  and  divest  them  of  all  pic- 
turesque imagery  ;  nay,  would  sometimes  convert  bis  verse  into 
mere  prose  ;  or,  what  is  still  worse,  hard  inflated  prose. 

t  His  history  of  the  four  last  years  of  queen  Anne. 


gray's  letters.  41 

before.  The  manner  is  careless,  and  has 
little  to  distinguish  it  from  common  writers. 
I  meet  with  nothing  to  please  me  but  the 
spiteful  characters  of  the  opposite  party  and 
its  leaders.  I  expected  much  more  secret 
history. 


CII. 

TO    MR.    STONHEWER. 

Cambridge,  August  18,  1758. 

1  AM  as  sorry  as  you  seem  to  be,  that  our  ac 
quaintance  harped  so  much  on  the  subject  of 
materiahsm,  when  I  saw  him  with  you  in 
town,  because  it  was  plain  to  which  side  of 
the  long-debated  question  he  inclined.  That 
we  are  indeed  mechanical  and  dependent 
beings,  I  need  no  other  procf  than  my  own 
feelings;  and  from  the  same  feelings  I  learn, 
with  equal  conviction,  that  we  are  not  merely 
such:  that  there  is  a  power  within  that  strug- 
gles against  the  force  and  bias  of  that  me- 
chanism, commands  its  motion,  and,  by  fre- 
quent practice,  reduces  it  to  that  ready  obe- 
dience, which  we  call  habit ;  and  all  this  in 
conformity  to  a  preconceived  opinion  (no 
matter  whether  right  or  wrong)  to  that  least 


42 

material  of  all  agents,  a  thonght.  I  have 
known  many  in  his  case  who,  while  they 
thoiiixht  thej  were  conquering  an  old  pre- 
judice, did  not  perceive  thej'  were  under  the 
influence  of  or-e  far  more  dangerous;  one 
that  furnishes  us  with  a  ready  apology  for 
all  our  worst  actions,  and  opens  to  us  a  full 
licence  for  doing  whatever  we  please;  and 
yet  these  very  people  were  not  at  all  the 
more  indulgent  to  other  men  (as  they  na- 
turally should  have  been);  their  indignation 
to  such  as  offended  them,  their  desire  of  re- 
venge on  any  body  that  hurt  them  was 
nothing  mitigated  :  in  short,  the  truth  is, 
they  wished  to  he  persuaded  of  that  opinion 
for  the  sake  of  its  convenience,  but  were  not 
so  in  their  heart;  and  they  would  have  been 
glad  (as  they  ought  in  common  prudence) 
that  nobody  else  should  think  the  same,  for 
fear  of  the  mischief  that  might  ensue  to 
themselves.  His  French  author  I  never 
saw,  but  have  read  fifty  in  the  same  strain, 
and  shall  read  no  more.  I  can  be  wretched 
enough  without  them.  They  put  me  in  mind 
of  the  Greek  sophist  that  got  immortal  hon- 
our by  discoursing  so  feelingly  on  the  mise- 
ries of  our  condition,  that  fifty  of  his  audience 
went  home  and  hanged  themselves  ;  yet  he 
lived  himself  (I  suppose)  many  years  after 
in  very  good  plight. 


gray's  letters.  43 

You  say  you  cannot  conceive  how  lord 
ShnflesbuP}'  came  to  be  a  philosopher  in 
vo;^iie;  I  will  tell  you:  tirst,  he  was  a  lord; 
2{11y,  he  wis  as  vain  as  any  of  his  readers; 
3(]iy  men  are  very  prone  to  believe  what 
they  do  not  understand;  4thly,  they  will  be- 
lieve any  thing  at  all,  provided  they  are  un- 
der no  obligation  to  believe  it;  5thly,  they 
love  to  tike  a  new  road,  even  when  that 
road  leads  no  where;  6thly,  he  was  reckon- 
ed a  fine  writer,  and  seemed  always  to  m^aa 
more  than  he  said.  Would  you  have  any 
more  reasons?  An  interv;d  of  above  forty 
years  has  pretty  well  destroyed  the  charm. 
A  ilead  lord  ranks  but  with  commoners  : 
variity  is  no  longer  interested  in  the  matter, 
for  the  new  road  is  become  an  old  one. 
The  mode  of  free-tliinking  is  like  that  of 
ruffs  and  farthingale?,  and  has  given  place  to 
the  mode  of  not  thinking  at  all;  once  it  was 
reckoned  graceful,  half  to  discover  and  half 
conceal  the  mind,  but  now  we  have  been 
long  accustomed  to  see  it  quite  naked:  prim- 
ness and  affectation  of  style,  like  the  good 
breeding  of  queen  Anne'«  rv)i  rt,  has  turned 
to  hoydeninj;  and  rude  familiarity. 


44  gray's  letters. 


STRICTURES  ON  THE  WRITINGS  OF 
LORD   BOLINGBROKE. 

"I  will  allow  lord  Bolingbroke,  that  the 
moral,  as  well  as  physical,  attributes  of  God 
must  be  known  to  us  only  a  posteriori,  and 
that  this  is  the  ordy  real  knowledge  we  can 
have  either  of  the  one  or  the  other;  I  will 
allow  too,  that  perhaps  it  may  be  an  idle  dis- 
tinction which  we  make  between  them:  his 
Hior.il  attributes  being  as  much  in  his  nature 
and  essence  as  those  we  call  his  physical; 
but  the  occasion  of  our  making  some  distinc- 
tion is  plainly  this  :  his  eternity,  infinity, 
omniscience,  and  almighty  power,  are  not 
what  coimect  him,  if  1  may  so  speak,  with 
us  his  creatures  We  adore  him,  not  be- 
cause he  always  did.,  in  every  place,  and  al- 
ways will,  exist;  but  because  he  gave  and 
still  preserves  to  us  our  own  existence  by 
an  exertion  of  his  goodness.  We  adore  him, 
not  because  he  knows  and  can  do  all  things, 
but  because  he  made  us  capable  of  knowing 
and  of  doing  what  may  conduct  us  to  happi' 
ness:  it  is  therefore  his  benevolence  which 
we  adore,  not  his  greatness  or  power;  and 
if  we  are  made  only  to  bear  our  part  in  a 
system,  without  any  regard  to  our  own  par- 


gray's  letters.  4o 

ticular  happiness,  we  can  no  longer  worship 
him  as  our  all-bounteous  parent:  there  is 
no  meaning  in  the  term.  The  idea  of  his 
male  violence  (an  impiety  I  tremble  to  write) 
must  succeed.  We  have  nothing  left  but  our 
fears,  and  those  too,  vain;  for  whither  can 
they  lead  but  to  despair  and  the  sad  desire 
of  annihilation?  "If  then,  justice  and  good- 
ness be  not  the  same  in  God  as  in  our  ide.is, 
we  mean  nothing  when  we  say  that  God  is 
necessai'ily  just  and  good;  and  for  the  same 
reason,  it  may  as  well  be  said  that  we  know 
not  what  we  mean  when,  according  to  Dr. 
Clarke,  (Evid.  26th)  we  affirm  that  he  is 
necessarily  a  vvise  and  intelligent  Being." 
What  then  can  lord  Bolingbroke  mean,  when 
he  says  every  thing  shows  the  wisdom  of 
God  ;  and  yet  adds,  every  thing  does  not 
show  in  like  manner  the  goodness  of  God 
conformably  to  our  ideas  of  this  attribute  in 
either  ? — By  wisdom  he  must  only  mean, 
that  God  knows  and  employs  the  fittest 
means  to  a  certain  end,  no  matter  what  that 
end  may  be:  this  indeed  is  a  proof  of  know- 
ledge and  intelligence;  but  these  alone  do 
not  constitute  wisdom;  the  word  implies  the 
application  of  these  fittest  means  to  the 
best  and  kindest  end;  or  who  will  call  it  true 
wisdom?    Even  amongst  ourselves,  it  is  not 


46  gray's  letters. 

held  as  such.  All  the  attributes,  then,  that  he 
seems  to  think  apparent  in  the  constitution 
of  things,  are  his  unity,  infinity,  eternity, 
avMi  intelligence;  from  no  one  of  which,  1 
boldly  atiirrn,  can  result  any  duty  of  gratitude 
or  adoration  incumbent  on  mankind,  more 
than  if  He  and  all  things  round  him  were 
produced,  as  some  have  dared  to  think,  by 
the  necessary  working  of  eternal  matter  in 
an  intinite  vacuum;  for  what  does  it  avail  to 
add  intelligence  to  those  other  physical  at- 
tributes, unless  that  intelligence  be  directed, 
not  only  to  the  good  of  the  whole,  but  also 
to  the  good  of  every  individual  of  which  that 
whole  is  composed. 

It  is  therefore  no  impiety,  but  the  direct 
contrary,  to  say  that  human  justice,  and  the 
other  virtues,  which  are  indeed  only  various 
applications  of  human  benevolence,  boar 
some  resemblance  to  the  moral  attributes  of 
the  supreme  Being:  it  is  only  by  means  of 
that  resemblance,  we  conceive  them  in  him, 
or  their  effects  in  his  works:  it  is  by  the 
same  means  only,  that  we  comprehend  those 
physical  attributes  which  his  lordship  allows 
to  be  demonstrable:  how  can  we  form  any 
notion  of  his  unity,  hut  from  that  unity  of 
which  we  ourselves  are  conscious  ?  How  of 
his  existence,  but  from  our  own  conscious- 


GRAY  S   LETTERS.  47 

uess  of  existing  ?  How  of  his  power,  but  of 
that  power  wnich  we  experience  in  our- 
selves ?  yet  neither  lord  Boiingbroke  nor 
any  other  man,  that  thought  on  these  sub- 
jects, ever  believed  that  these  our  ideaa 
were  real  and  full  representations  of  these 
attributes  in  the  divinity.  They  say,  He 
knows;  they  do  not  mean  that  he  compares 
ideas  which  he  acquired  from  sensation,  and 
draws  conclusioas  from  them.  They  say,  He 
acts;  they  do  not  mean  by  impulse,  nor  as 
the  soul  acts  on  an  organized  body.  They 
say,  He  is  omnipotent  and  eternal;  yet  on 
what  are  their  ideas  founded,  but  on  our 
own  narrow  conceptions  of  space  and  dura- 
tion, prolonged  beyond  the  bounds  of  place 
and  time  ?  Either  therefore  there  is  a  re- 
semblance and  analogy  (however  imperfect 
and  distant)  between  the  attributes  of  the 
divinity  and  our  conceptions  of  them,  or  we 
cannot  have  any  conceptions  of  them  at  all. 
He  allows  we  ought  to  reason  from  earth, 
that  we  do  know,  to  heaven,  which  we  da 
not  know:  how  can  we  do  so,  but  by  that 
affinity,  which  appears  between  one  and  the 
other  ? 

In  vain  then  does  my  lord  attempt  to  ridi- 
cule the  warm  but  melancholy  imagination  of 
Mr.  Wollaston,  in  that  tine  sohloquy:  '*Must 


48  gray's  letters. 

1  then  bid  my  last  farevvel]  to  these  walks 
when  1  close  these  lids,  and  yonder  blue  re- 
gions, and  all  tliis  scene  (!aiken  upon  me  and 
go  out  ?  Must  1  then  only  serve  to  furnish 
dust  to  be  mingled  with  the  ash.es  of  these 
herds  and  ph-uits,  or  with  this  dirt  under  my 
feet  ?  Have  1  been  set  so  f«r  above  them  in 
life,  only  to  be  levelled  with  them  in 
death  ?"''^  No  thinkmg  head,  no  heart,  that 
has  the  least  sensibility,  but  must  have  made 
the  same  reflection;  or  at  least  must  feel, 
not  the  beauty  alone,  but  the  truth  of  it, 
when  he  hoars  it  from  the  mouth  of  another. 
Non'  vv'hat  reply  will  lord  Boliugbroke  make 
to  these  questions  which  are  put  to  him,  not 
only  by  Wollaston,  but  by  all  mankind  ?  He 
will  {<-ll  you,  that  we,  that  is,  the  animals,  \  eg- 
etables,  siones,  and  other  clcds  of  earth  ^  are  all 
connected  in  one  immense  design,  that  we  are 
all  drariiatis  personas,  in  different  characters, 
and  that  we  were  not  made  for  ourselves, 
but  for  the  action:  that  it  is  foolish,  pre- 
simrptuous,  impious,  and  profane  to  murmur 
against  the  Almighty  Anther  of  this  dran}a, 
when  we  feel  ourselves  una.voidably  unhap- 
py. On  the  contrary,  we  ought  io  rest  our 
head  on  the  soft  pillow  of  resignation,  on  the 

*  Religion  of  Nature  delineated,  sect.  ix.  p.  209,  quarto. 


gray's  letters.  49 

iiiiinoveable  rock  of  trnnquillity;  secure,  that 
if  our  pturis  and  afflictioiis  grow  violent  in- 
deed, an  immediate  end  will  be  put  to  our 
miserable  being,  and  we  slia'.i  be  mingled 
with  the  dirt  under  our  feet,  a  thing  com- 
mon to  all  the  animal  kind;  and  -of  which  he 
who  complains  does  not  seem  to  have  been 
set  by  his  reason  so  far  above  them  in  life, 
as  to  deserve  not  to  be  mingled  with  them 
in  death.  Such  is  the  consolation  his  philo- 
sophy gives  us,  and  such  the  hope  on  which 
his  tranquillity  was  founded."^ 


cm. 

TO  DR.   WHARTON. 

Sunday,  April  9,  1758. 

I  AM  equally  sensible  of  your  affliction,!  and 
of  your  kindness,  that  made  you  think  of  me 
at  such  a  moment;  would  to  God  1  could 
lessen  the  one,  or  requite  the  other  with 

•  The  reader,  who  would  choose  to  see  the  argument,  as  lord 
Bolir.glnoke  puts  it,  will  find  it  in  the  4th  volume  of  his  philoso- 
phical works,  sect  x.  4\  His  rlc'icule  on  Wollastoii  is  in  the  aOth 
seciion  of  the  same  volume. 

+  Occasioned  by  the  death  of  his  eldest  (and  at  the  time  his  only) 
son. 

VOL.    IV.  20 


5G  gray's  letters. 

that  consolation  which  I  have  often  received 
from  you  when  I  most  wanted  it !  but  your 
grief  is  too  just,  and  the  cause  of  it  too  fresh, 
to  admit  of  any  such  endeavour.  What,  in- 
deed, is  all  human  consolation  ?  Can  it  efface 
every  little  amiable  word  or  action  of  an  ob- 
ject we  loved,  from  our  memory  ?  Can  it 
convince  us,  that  all  the  hopes  we  had  en- 
tertained, the  plans  of  future  satisiiiction  we 
had  formed,  were  ill-grounded  and  vain,  only 
because  we  have  lost  them  ?  The  only 
comfort  (I  am  afraid)  that  belongs  to  our 
condition,  is  to  reflect  (when  time  has  given 
us  leisure  for  reflection)  that  others  have 
suffered  worse;  or  that  we  ourselves  might 
have  suffered  the  same  misfortune,  at  times 
and  in  circumstances  that  would  probably 
have  aggravated  our  sorrow.  You  might 
have  seen  this  poor  child  arrived  at  an  age 
to  fuliil  all  your  hopes,  to  attach  you  more 
strongly  to  him  by  long  habit,  by  esteem,  as 
well  as  natural  affection,  and  that  towards 
the  decline  of  your  life,  when  we  most  stand 
in  need  of  support,  and  when  he  might 
chance  to  have  been  your  onfy  support;  and 
then  by  some  unforeseen  and  deplorable  ac- 
cident, or  some  painful  lingering  distemper, 
you  might  have  lost  him.  Such  has  been 
he  fate  of  many  an  unhappy  father  !  I  know 


gray's  letters.  51 

there  is  a  sort  of  tenderness  which  infancy 
and  innocence  alone  produce;  but  I  think 
you  must  own  the  other  to  be  a  stronger  and 
a  more  overwhelming  sorrow.  Let  me  then 
beseech  you  to  try,  by  everj  method  of  avo- 
cation and  amusement,  whether  yon  cannot, 
by  degrees,  get  the  better  of  that  dejection 
of  spirits,  which  inclines  you  to  see  every 
thing  in  the  worst  light  possible,  and  throws 
a  sort  of  voluntary  gloom,  not  only  over 
your  present,  but  future  days;  as  if  evea 
your  situation  now  were  not  preferable 
to  that  of  thousands  round  you;  and  as  if 
your  prospect  hereafter  might  not  open  as 
much  of  happiness  to  you  as  to  any  person 
you  know:  the  condition  of  our  life  per- 
petually instructs  us  to  be  rather  slow  to 
hope,  as  well  as  to  despair;  and  (I  know  you 
will  forgive  me,  if  I  tell  you)  you  are  often 
a  little  too  hasty  in  both,  perhaps  from  con- 
stitution: it  is  sure  we  have  great  power  over 
our  own  minds,  when  we  choose  to  exert  it; 
and  though  it  be  difficult  to  resist  the  me- 
chanic impulse  and  bias  of  our  own  temper, 
it  is  yet  possible,  and  still  m.ore  so  to  delay 
those  resolutions  it  inclines  us  to  take,  which 
we  almost  always  have  cause  to  repent. 

You  tell  me  nothing  of  Mrs.  Wharton's  or 
your  own  state  of  health;  I  will  not  talk  to 


52  gray's  letters. 

you  more  upon  this  subject  till  I  hear  you 
are  both  well;  for  that  is  the  grand  point, 
and  without  it  we  may  as  well  not  think  at 
all.  You  flatter  me  in  thinking  that  any 
thing  I  can  do*  could  at  all  alleviate  the  just 
concern  your  loss  has  given  you;  but  1  can- 
not flatter  myself  so  iar,  and  know  how  little 
qualified  lam  at  present  to  give  any  satisfac- 
tion to  myself  on  this  head,  and  in  this  way, 
much  less  to  you.  I  by  no  means  pretend 
to  inspiration;  but  yet  1  aflirm,  that  the  fa- 
culty in  question  is  by  no  means  voluntary; 
it  is  the  result  (I  suppose)  of  a  certain  dis- 
position of  mind,  which  does  not  depend  on 
one's  self,  and  which  I  have  not  felt  this 
long  time.  You  that  are  a  witness  how  sel- 
dom this  spirit  has  moved  me  in  my  life, 
may  easily  give  credit  to  what  I  say. 


CIV. 

TO  MR.  PALGRAVE.t 

Stdce,  Sept.  6, 1758. 

1  DO   not  know  how  to  make   you  amends, 

*  His  fiiaid  had  requested  him  to  write  an  epitaph  on  the  child, 
t  Rector  of  Palgrave  and  Thrandtston  in  Suffolk.    He  was  mak" 
ing  a  tour  in  Scotland  when  this  letter  was  wvitten  to  hini. 


eRAY's    LETTERS.  63 

having  neither  rock,  ruin,  nor  precipice 
near  me  to  send  you:  they  do  not  grow  in 
the  south:  but  only  say  the  word,  if  you 
would  have  a  compact  neat  box  of  red  brick 
with  sash  windows,  or  a  grotto  made  of  flints 
and  shell-work,  or  a  walnut-tree  with  three 
mole-hills  under  it,  stuck  with  honey-suckles 
round  a  basin  of  gold-lishes,  and  you  shall 
be  satisfied;  they  shall  come  by  the  Edin- 
burgh coach. 

In  the  mean  time  I  congratulate  you  on 
your  new  acquaintance  with  the  savage,  the 
rude,  and  the  tremendous.  Pray,  lell  me,  is 
it  any  thing  like  what  you  had  read  in  your 
book,  or  seen  in  two-shilling  prints?  Do  not 
you  think  a  rnan  may  be  tiie  wiser  (I  had 
almost  said  the  better)  for  going  a  hundred 
or  two  of  miles;  and  that  the  mind  has  more 
room  in  it  than  most  people  seem  to  think, 
if  you  will  but  furnish  the  apartments?  I 
almost  envy  your  last  month,  being  in  a  very 
insipid  situation  m3'sclf ;  and  desire  you 
would  not  fail  to  send  me  some  furniture  for 
my  Gothic  apartment,  which  i>  very  cold  at 
present.  It  will  be  the  easier  task,  as  you 
have  nothing  to  do  but  transcribe  your  little 
red  books,  if  they  are  not  rubbed  out;  for  I 
conclude  you  have  not  trusted  every  thing  to 
memory,  which  is  ten  times  worse  than  a 


54 

lead-pencil:  half  a  word  fixed  upon  or  near 
the  spot,  is  worth  a  cart-load  of  recollection. 
When  we  trust  to  the  picture  that  objects 
draw  of  themselves  on  our  mind,  we  deceive 
ourselves;  without  accurate  and  particular 
observation,  it  is  but  ill-drawn  at  first,  the 
outlines  are  soon  blurred,  the. colours  every 
day  grow  fainter;  and  at  last,  when  we  could 
produce  it  to  any  body,  we  are  forced  to 
supply  its  defects  with  a  few  strokes  of  our 
own  imagination.*  God  forgive  me,  1  sup- 
pose I  have  done  so  myself  before  now,  and 
misled  many  a  good  body  that  put  their  trust 
in  me.  Pray,  tell  me,  (but  with  permission, 
and  without  any  breach  of  hospitality')  is  it 
so  much  warmer  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Swale  (as  some  people  of  honour  sa>)  than 
it  is  here  ?  Has  the  singing  of  birds,  the 
bleating  of  sheep,  the  lowing  of  herds,  dea- 
fened you  at  Rainton  ?  Did  the  vast  old 
oaks  and  thick  groves  in  Northumberland 
keev^  off  the  sun  too  much  from  you  ?  i  am 
too  civil  to  extend  my  inquiries  beyond  Bf  r^ 
wick.  Every  thing,  doubtless,  must  improve 
upon  you  as  you  advanced  northward.     You 

*  Had  this  letter  notlune-  else  to  recommend  it,  the  advice  here 
given  to  the  curious  travtlltr  of  making  all  his  memoranda  on  the 
spot,  and  the  reasons  for  it,  are  so  wtll  expressed^  aiid  withal  sn 
important,  that  they  certasily  deserve  our  notice. 


GRAY'S  LETTERS.  65 

must  tell  me,  though,  about  Melross,  Roslin 
Chiipel,  and  Arbroath.  In  short,  your  port- 
feuille  must  be  so  full,  that  I  only  desire  a 
loose  chapter  or  two,  and  will  wait  for  the 
rest  till  it  comes  out. 


CV. 

TO    MR,    MASON. 

Stoke,  Nov.  9,  1758. 

I  SHOULD  have  told  you  that  Cra<i(iOC  came 
safe  to  hand;*  but  my  critical  faculties  have 
been  so  taken  up  in  dividing  noiltvis:  with  an 
old  woman,!  tliat  they  are  not  yet  composed 
enough  for  a  better  and  more  tranquil  em- 
ployment: stiortly,  however,  1  will  make 
them  obey  me.  But  am  I  to  send  this  copy 
to  Mr.  Hurd.,  or  return  it  to  you?  Methinks 
1  do  not  love  this  travelling  to  and  again  of 
manuscripts  by  the  post.  While  I  am  writ- 
ing:, your  second  packet  is  just  arrived.  I 
can  only  tell  you  in  gross,  that  there  seem 
to  me  certain  passages  altered   which  might 

*  A  seeond'manuscript  of  Caraclacus  with  the  odes  inserted. 
+  Mrs.  Roe:ers,  his  aunt,  ditd  about  this  V.iv.e,  and  left  Mi,% 
(Si-ay  and  Mrs.  OJifTc,  another  ol  liis  aunts,  her  joint  estcutws. 


56  gray's  letters. 

as  well  have  been  let  alone;  and  that  f  shall 
not  be    easily   reconciled    to  Mador's    own 
song.^     I  must  not  have  my  fancy  raised   to 
that  agreeable  pitch  of  heathenism  and  wild 
magical  enthusiasm,  and  then  have  you  let 
me    drop    into   moral    philosophy   and    cold 
good  sense.     J  remember  you  insulted  me 
when  I  saw  you  last,  and  affected  to  call  that 
which   delighted   my  imagination,  nofisense  : 
now  i  insist  that  sense  is  nothing  in  poetry, 
but   according  to  the  dress  she  wear^,  and 
the   scene  she   appears   in.     If  you  should 
lead  me  into  a  superb  Gothic  building  with  a 
thousand    clustered    pillars,    each    of  them 
half  a  mile  high,  the  walls  all  covered  with 
fretwork,  and  the  windows  full  of  red  and 
blue  saints,  that  had  neither  head  nor  tail; 
and  I  should  lind  the  Venus  of  Medici  in  per- 
son perked  u"^)  in  a  long  niclie  over  the  high 
altar,  do  you  think  it  would  raise  or  damp 
my  devotions?    I   say  that  Mador  must  be 
entirely  a  Briton;  and  that  his  pre-eminence 
among  his  companions  must  be  shown  by  su- 
perior wildness,  more  barbaric  fancy,  and  a 
more  striking  and  deeper  harmony  both  of 
words  and  numbers:  if  British  antiquity  be 

*  He  means  heie  the  sccoml  ocle,  vhioh   was  afterwaidsalteietl. 


gray's  letters.  67 

too  narrow,  this  is  the  place  for  invention; 
and  if  it  be  pure  invention,  so  much  the 
clearer  must  the  expression  be,  and  so  much 
the  stronger  and  richer  the  imagery.  There's 
for  you  now! 


CVI. 

TO    MR.    PALGRAVE. 

London,  July  24,  1759. 

I  AM  now  settled  in  my  new  territories,  com- 
manding Bedtbrd  gardens,  and  all  the  tields 
as  far  as  Highgate  and  Hampstead.  with 
such  a  concourse  of  moving  pictures  as  would 
astonish  you;  so  rus-iii-urbt-i.sh,  that  I  be- 
lieve I  shall  stay  here,  except  little  excur- 
sions and  vagaries,  for  a  year  to  come. 
Whrit  though  I  am  separated  from  the  fash- 
ionable world  by  broad  St.  Giles's,  and 
many  a  dirty  court  and  alley,  yet  here  is 
air,  and  sunshine,  and  quiet.  However,  to 
comfort  you:  I  shall  confess  that  1  am  bask- 
ing with  heat  all  the  summer,  and  I  suppose 
shall  be  blown  down  all  the  winter,  besides 
being  robbed  every  ni<:ht;  1  trust,  however, 
that  the  Museum,  with  all  its  manuscripts 
and  rarities* by  the  cart-load,  will  make  am- 


68  gray's  letters. 

pie  amends  for  all  the  aforesaid  inconvenien- 
ces. 

I  this  day  passed  throusjh  the  jaws  of  a 
great  leviathan  into  the  den  of  Dr.  Temple- 
man,  superintendant  of  the  reading-room, 
who  congratulated  himself  on  the  sight  of  so 
much  good  company.  We  were,  lirst,  a  man 
that  writes  for  Lord  Royston;  ^dly,  a  man 
that  writes  for  Dr.  Burton,  of  York:  3dly,  a 
man  that  writes  for  the  emperor  of  Germany, 
or  Dr  Pocock,  for  he  speaks  the  worst  En- 
glish I  ever  heard;  4thly,  Dr.  Stukely,  who 
writes  for  himself,  the  very  worst  person  he 
could  write  for;  and,  laftly,  I,  who  only 
read  to  know  if  there  be  any  thin;j;  worth 
writing,  and  that  not  witiiont  some  difficulty. 
I  find  that  they  printed  ICOO  copies  of  the 
Harleian  catalogue,  and  have  sold  only  four- 
score; that  they  have  9i)0l.  a  year  income, 
and  spend  1300/.  and  are  building  apart- 
ments for  the  under  keepers;  so  1  expect  in 
winter  to  see  the  collection  advertised  and 
set  to  aiM^tion. 

Have  3'ou  read  lord  Clarendon's  continua- 
tion of  his  history  ?  Do  you  remember 
Mr.  *  *  *'s  account  of  it  before  it  came  out? 
How  well  he  recollected  all  the  faults,  and 
how  utterly  he  forgot  all  the  beautiesi  Sure- 
ly the  grossest  taste  is  better  t-han  such  a 
sort  of  dehcacv. 


gray's  letters.  59 


CVIf. 


TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

London,  June  22,  1760. 

I  AM  not  sorry  to  hear  yon  are  exceeding 
busy,  except  as  it  has  deprived  me  of  the 
pleasure  I  should  have  in  hearing  often  from 
you:  and  as  it  has  been  occasioned  by  a  lit- 
tle vexation  and  disapj^ointment.  'Jo  find 
one's  self  business,  I  am  persuaded,  is  the 
great  art  of  life;  I  am  never  so  ano;ry,  as 
when  I  hear  my  acquaintance  wishina:  they 
had  been  bred  to  some  poking  profession,  or 
employed  in  some  office  of  drudgery,  as  if  it 
were  pleasanter  to  be  at  the  command  of 
other  people  than  at  one's  own;  and  as  if 
they  could  not  go  unless  they  were  wound 
up:  yet  I  know  and  feel  what  they  mean  by 
this  complaint;  it  proves  that  some  spirit, 
something  of  genius  (more  than  common)  is 
reiiuired  to  teach  a  man  how  to  employ  him- 
self: I  say  a  man;  for  women,  commonly 
speaking,  never  feel  this  distemper;  the}^ 
have  ahvays  something  to  do;  time  hnngs 
not  on  their  hands  (unless  they  be  fine 
ladies);  a  variety  of  small  .inventions  and 
occupations  fill  up  the  void,  and  their  eyes 
are  never  open  in  vaio. 


60  gray's  letters. 

As  to  myself,  I  have  again  found  rest  for 
the  sole  of  my  gouty  foot  in  your  old  dining- 
room,*"  and  hope  that  you  will  find  at  least 
an  equal  satisfaction  at  Old-Park;  if  your 
bog  prove  as  comfortable  as  my  oven,  I 
shall  see  no  occasion  to  pity  you,  and  only 
wish  you  may  brew  no  worse  than  I  bake. 

You  totally  mistake  my  talents,  when  you 
impute  to  me  any  magical  skill  in  planting 
roses:  I  know  I  am  no  conjurer  in  these 
things;  when  they  are  done  I  can  find  fault, 
and  that  is  all.  Now  this  is  the  veiy  re- 
verse of  genius,  and  1  feel  my  own  little- 
ness. Reasonable  people  know  themselves 
better  than  is  commonly  imagined;  and 
therefore  (though  I  never  saw  any  instance 
of  it,;  I  believe  Mason  when  he  tells  me 
that  he  understands  these  things.  The  pro- 
phetic eye  of  Uiste  (as  Mr.  Pitt  calls  it)  sees 
all  the  beauties  that  a  place  is  susceptible  of, 
long  before  they  are  born;  and  when  it 
plants  a  seedling,  already  sits  under  the 
shadow  of  it,  and  enjoys  the  effect  it  will 
have  from  every  point  of  view  that  lies  in 
prospect.     You  must  therefore  invoke  Ca- 

*  Theliouse  in  Soutliampton-Row.  where  Mr.  Gray  lodged,  liad 
been  tenanted  by  Dr.  Wharton  ;  who,  on  account  of  his  ill  htalth, 
left  Loiidon  the  year  before,  aud  was  remov«i  to  his  paternal  estate 
at  01d-Psu-k,ne^-  Ouihiiin. 


GRAY  S  LETTERS.  til 

lactacus,  and  he  vvill  send  his  spirits  from 
the  top  of  Snovvdon  to  Cross-fell  or  Warden- 
law. 

I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  antique 
nens.  Froissard  is  a  favourite  book  of 
mine  (though  1  have  not  attentively  read 
him,  but  only  dipped  here  and  there);  and 
it  is  strange  to  me  that  people,  who  would 
give  thousands  for  a  dozen  portraits  (origi- 
nals of  that  time)  to  furnish  a  gallery,  should 
never  cast  an  eye  on  so  many  moving  pic-- 
tures  of  the  life,  actions,  manners,  and 
thoughts  of  their  ancestors,  done  on  the  spot, 
and  in  strong,  though  simple  colours.  In 
the  succeedir)g  century  Froissard,  I  find, 
was  read  with  great  satisfaction  by  every 
body  that  could  read;  and  on  the  same  foot- 
ing with  king  Aithur,  sir  Tiistram,  and  arch- 
bishop Turpin:  not  because  they  thought 
him  a  fabulous  writer,  but  because  they 
took  them  all  for  true  and  authentic  histo- 
rians; to  so  little  purpose  was  it  in  that  age 
for  a  man  to  be  at  the  pains  of  writing 
truth.  Pray,  are  you  come  to  the  four  Irish 
kings  that  went  to  school  to  king  Richard 
the  Second's  master  of  the  ceremonies,  and 
the  man  who  informed  Froissard  of  all  he 
had  seen  in  St.  Patrick's  purgatory? 


62  gray's  letters. 

The  town  are  readinij  the  king  of  Prus- 
sia's poetry  {Le  P/{ihsophe  sans  Souci),  and 
I  have'  (lone  like  the  town;  they  do  not 
seem  so  sick  of  it  as  I  am:  It  is  all  the  scum 
of  Voltaire  and  lord  Bolifigbroke,  the  Cram- 
be  recocta  of  our  worst  freethinkers,  tossed 
up  in  German-French  rhyme.  Tristram 
Shandy  is  still  a  greater  object  of  admiration, 
the  man  as  well  as  the  book;  one  is  invited 
to  dinner,  where  he  dines,  a  fortniji;ht  be- 
fore: as  to  the  volumes  yet  published,  there 
is  much  good  fun  in  them,  and  humour  some- 
times hit  and  sometimes  Tnissed.  Have  you 
read  his  sermons,  with  his  own  comic  figure, 
from  a  painting  by  Reynolds  at  the  head  of 
them?  They  are  in  the  style  I  tiiink  most 
proper  for  the  pulpit,*  and  show  a  strong 

*  Our  author  was  of  opinion,  tliat  it  was  the  business  of  the 
preacher  rather  to  persuade:  by  the  power  of  eloquence  to  the 
practice  of  known  duties,  than  to  reason  with  the  ait  of  logic  oti 
points  of  contro-erted  doctrine :  Hence,  therefore,  I>f  thought 
that  soinetiir.es  iiiiagiit&tion  rright  not  be  out  of  its  place  in  a 
sermon.  But  let  him  speaU  for  himself  in  an  extract  fi*oni  one  of 
bis  letters  to  me  in  the  following  year:  "Your  quotation  from 
Jeremy  Taylor  is  a  fine  on. .  I  have  long  thought  of  reading  him  ; 
for  I  am  persuaded  thut  chopping  logic  in  the  pulpit,  «s  our 
divines  have  done  ever  since  (he  revolution,  is  n.t  the  tl  ing;  but 
that  iniagiifttionap.d  v\:nn.th  of  expression,  are  in  their  place  there, 

as  much  as  on   tbt  siagt  ;  moderated,  however,  and  chastised  a 

little  by  the  purity  and  severity  of  religion." 


gray's  letters.  6o 

imagination  and  a  sensible  heart ;  but  you 
see  him  often  tottering  on  the  vero;e  of 
laughter,  and  ready  to  throw  his  periwig  in 
the  face  of  the  auiiience. 


CVIII. 

TO    MR.    STONHIlWER. 

London,  June  29,  1760. 

Though  you  have  had  but  a  melancholy 
employment,  it  is  worthy  of  envy,  and  I 
hope  will  have  all  the  success  it  deserves.* 
It  was  the  best  and  most  natural  method  of 
cure,  and  such  as  could  not  have  been  ad- 
ministered by  any  but  your  gentle  hand.  I 
thank  you  for  communicating  to  me  what 
must  give  you  so  much  satisfaction- 

I  too  was  reading  M.  D'Alembert,!  and 
(like  you)  am  totally  disappointed  in  his 
elements.  I  could  only  taste  a  little  of  the 
first  course  :  it  was  dry  as  a  stick,  hard  as  a 
stone,   and  cold  as  a  cucumber.     But  then 

*  Mr.  Stonhewer  was  now  at  Houghton-le-Spring,  in  the  bishop- 
rick  of  Durham,  attending  on  his  sick  father,  rector  of  that  parish. 

t  Two  subsequent  volumes  of  his  "  Melanges  de  Literatiu'e  et 
Philosophic." 


64  GRAY  S  LETTERS^ 

the  letter  to  Ronsseau  is  like  himself; 
and  the  discourses  on  elocution,  and  on  tlie 
liberty  of  mnsic,  are  divine.  He  has  add- 
ed to  his  translations  fr»m  Tacitus  ;  and 
(what  is  remarkable)  thonch  that  author's 
manner  niore  nearly  resembles  the  best 
French  writers  of  the  present  age,  than  any 
thins^,  be  totally  fails  in  the  attempt.  Is  it 
his  fault,  or  that  of  the  language  ? 

I  have  received  another  Scotch  packet,* 
with  a  third  specimen,  inferior  in  kind,  (be- 

*  Of  the  fragments  of  Erse  poe'ry,  iwany  of  which  Mr  Gray 
saw  in  snanuscript  before  they  were  published.  In  a  letter  to  Dr. 
Wharton,  written  in  the  following  month,  li '  thus  expn  sies  him- 
self on  the  same  snbje<t :  If  you  liave  seen  Mr.  Sionhewer,  he  lias 
probably  told  you  of  my  old  Scotch  (or  rather  Trisli)  pot  try  :  I  am 
gone  mad  about  them  ;  tby  are  said  to  be  translations  (literal  and 
in  prose)  from  ihe  Etse  tongue,  done  by  one  Macpherson,  a  yoinig 
clergyman  in  the  Highlands.  He  means  to  publish  a  collection 
he  has  of  thtse  sneeimens  of  antiquity,  if  it  lie  antiquity  ;  but  what 
perplexes  me  is,  I  caimot  ccme  at  any  certainty  on  that  head.  I 
was  so  struck  with  their  lieauty,  tha'  I  writ  into  Scotlaiid  to  make 
a  thousand  inquiries  ;  the  letters  I  liave  in  return,  are  ill  wrote, 
ill  rtasonod,  unsatisfactory  calculated  (o'le  would  imagine)  to  de- 
ceive, and  yet  not  cunning  enougli  to  do  it  cleverly-  In  short  the 
whole  e.xternal  evidence  would  make  one  lielieve  these  fiagments 
counti  rfeit :  but  tlie  inter:ial  is  so  sriting  on  the  other  side,  that  I 
am  res>>lved  to  believe  tliem  gtauine,  spite  of  the  devil  and  the 
kirk :  it  is  impossible  to  conceive  that  ihey  were  written  Iiy  the 
sam(.:  man  that  writes  me  these  letters  ;  on  the  othir  liand,  it  is 
almost  as  hard  to  suppose  (if  they  are  original)  that  lie  should  be  able 
to  translate  tiiem  so  admirably.    In  shoit,    this  man  is  the  v»-ry 


gray's  letters.  65 

cause  It  IS  merely  description)  but  yet  full 
of  nature  and  noble  wild  imagination.  Five 
bards  pass  the  night  at  the  castle  of  a  chief 
Hiiraself  a  principal  bard)  ;  each  goes  out 
in  his  turn  to  observe  the  face  of  things, 
and  returns  with  an  extern porie  picture  of 
the  changes  he  has  seen  (it  is  an  October 
night,  the  harvest-month  of  the  Highlands). 
This  is  the  whole  plan  ;  yet  there  is  a  con- 
trivance, and  a  preparation  of  ideas,  that 
you  would  not  expect.  The  oddest  thing  is, 
that  every  one  of  tliem  sees  ghosts  (more  or 
less).  The  idea,  that  struck  and  surprised 
me  most,  is  the  following.  One  of  them 
describing  a  storm  of  wind  and  rain)  says. 

Ghosts  ride  on  the  tempest  to-night  : 

Sweet  is  their  voice  between  the  gusts  of  wind  : 

Their  songs  are  of  otfier  -worlds! 

Did  you  never  observe  {while  rocking  win^l^ 
are  piping^  loud)  that  pause,  as  the  gust  is 
recollecting  itself,  and  rising  upon  the  ear 
in  a  shrill  and  plaintive  note,  like  the  swell 
of  an  yEolian  harp  ?    I   do  assure  you  there 

daemon  of  poetry,  or  he  has  lighted  on  a  treasure  hid  for  ages. 
The  Welsh  poets  are  also  comirg  to  light  ;  I  hav«  seen  a  discourse 
in  Hiannscript  about  them,  by  one  Mr.  Evans,  a  clergyman  with 
specimens  of  th.-ir  wiiting  :  this  is  in  Latin,  and  though  it  doci 
not  approach  the  other,  there  are  fine  scraps  among  it.'' 
VOL.    IV.  21 


66  gray's  letters. 

is  nothing  in  the  world  so  like  the  voice  of 
a  spirit.  Thonison  had  an  ear  sometimes  : 
he  was  not  deaf  ta  this  ;  and  has  described 
it  gloriously,  but  given  it  another  different 
turn,  and  of  more  horror.  I  cannot  repeat 
the  lines  :  it  is  in  his  Winter.  There  is 
another  very  fine  picture  in  one  of  them. 
It  describes  the  breaking  of  the  clouds  after 
the  storm,  before  it  is  settled  into  a  calm, 
and  when  the  moon  is  seen  by  short  inter- 
vals. 

The  waves  arc  tumbling  on  the  lake, 

And  lash  the  rocky  sidts. 

The  boat  is  biim-full  in  the  cove, 

The  oars  on  the  rocking  tide. 

Sad  sits  a  maid  beneath  a  cliff, 

And  eyes  the  rolluig  stream ; 

Her  lover  promised  to  come, 

She  saw  his  boat  [when  it  was  evening]  on  the  lake  ; 

Are  these  his  groans  in  the  gole  ? 

Is  this  his  broken  boat  on  the  shore  ? 


CIX. 

TO    DR.    CLARKE.* 

Pembroke  Hall,  Augtist  12, 1760. 

Not  knowing  whether  you  are  jet  returned 

*  Physician  at  Epsom.     With  this  gentleman  Mr.  Gray  com- 
menced an  early  acquaintance  at  ^college. 


gray's  letters.  67 

from  your  sea- water,  I  write  at  random  to 
you.  For  me,  I  am  come  to  my  resting- 
place,  and  find  it  very  necessary,  after  living 
for  a  month  in  a  house  with  three  women 
that  laughed  from  morning  to  night,  and 
would  allow  nothing  to  the  sulkiness  of  my 
disposition.  Company  and  cards  at  home, 
parties  by  land  and  water  abroad,  and  (what 
they  call)  doing  something,  that  is,  racketting 
about  from  morning  to  night,  are  occupa- 
tions, 1  find,  that  wear  out  my  spirits,  es- 
pecially in  a  situation  where  one  might  sit 
still,  and  be  alone  with  pleasure;  for  the 
])lace  was  a  hill*  like  Ciiefden,  opening  to 
a  very  extensive  and  diversified  landscape, 
with  the  Thames,  which  is  navigable,  run- 
ning at  its  foot. 

I  would  wish  to  continue  here  (in  a  very 
different  scene,  it  must  be  confessed)  till 
Michaelmas  ;  but  I  fear  1  must  come  to 
town  much  sooner.  Cambridge  is  a  delight 
of  a  place,  now  there  is  no  body  in  it.  I 
do  believe  you  would  like  it,  il  you  knew 
what  it  was  without  inhabitants.  It  is  they, 
I  assure  you,  that  get  it  an  ill  name  and 
spoil  all.  Our  friend  Dr.  *  *  *  (one  of  its 
nuisances)   is  not  expected  here  again  in  a 

*  Near  Henley. 


68  GRAk's    LETTERS, 

hurry.  He  is  gone  to  his  grave  with  five 
fine  mackarel  (large  and  full  of  roe)  in  his 
belly.  He  eat  them  all  at  one  dinner  ;  but 
his  fate  was  a  turbot  on  Trinity  Sunday,  of 
which  he  left  little  for  the  company  besides 
bones.  He  had  not  been  hearty  ail  the 
week;  but  after  this  sixth  tish  he  never 
held  up  his  head  more,  and  a  violent  loose- 
ness carried  him  off. — They  say  he  made  a 
very  good  end. 

Have  you  seen  the  Erse  fragments  since 
they  were  printed  ?  I  am  more  puzzled 
than  ever  about  their  antiquity,  though 
I  still  incline  (against  every  body's  opinion) 
to  believe  them  old.  Those  you  have  al- 
ready seen  are  the  best  ;  though  there  are 
some  others  that  are  excellent  too. 


ex. 


TO    MR.    MASON. 

Cambridge,  August  20,  1760. 

I   HAVE  sent  Musasus*  back   tis  you   desired 
me,   scratched  here  and  there.     And  with 

*  I  bad  desired  Mv.  Gray  to  revise  my  Monody  on  Mr.  Pope's 

death. 


gray's  letters.  Q9 

it  also  a  bloody  Satire,*   written    against  no 
less  persons   than  2/om   and  I  by    name.     I 
concluded  at  first  it  was   Mr.*^*,  because 
he  is  your  friend  and  my  humble  servant; 
but  then   I  thought  he  knew  the   world  too 
well    to    call    us    the    favourite    minions    of 
Taste  and  of  Fashion,  especially  as  to  odes; 
for  to  them  his  ridicule  is   continod:  so  it   is 
not  he,  but  Mr.    Colman,   nephew    to   lady 
Bath,  author  of  the  Connoisseur,   a  member 
of  one  of  the  inns  of  court,  and  a  particular 
acquaintance  of  Mr.   Garrick.     What  have 
you    done   to  him  ?  for  I  never  heard    his 
name  before;   he  makes  very  tolerable   fun 
with  me  whei-e  I    understand  him  (which   is 
not  every  where);   but  seems   more  angry 
with  you.     Lest  people  should   not   under- 
stand the   humour  of  the  thino-   (which  in- 
deed to  do  they  must  have   our  lyricisms   at 
their  linger  ends)  letters  come  out  in  Lloyd's 
Evening-Post  to  tell  them   who  and    what  it 
was  that  he  meant,   and  ■^•ay  it  is  like  to  pro- 
duce   a   great   combustion    in    tlie    literary 
world.     So  if  you  have  any  mind  to  comhus- 
tle  about  it,"   well  and   good  .;   for  me,    I  am 

*  The   Parodies   in  question,  er.tiile=<l  Odes  to  Obscurity  and 
Oblivion,  were  written  by  Lloyd  and  Colman, 


70  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

neither  so  literary  nor  so  combustible.* 
The  Monthly  Review,  I  see,  just  now  has 
much  stuff  about  us  on  this  occasion.  It 
says  one  of  us  at  least  has  always  borne  his 
faculties  meekly.  I  leave  you  to  guess . 
which  of  us  that  is;  I  think  1  know.  You 
simpleton  you  !  you  must  be  meek,  must 
you?  and  see  what  you  get  by  it. 

I  do  not  like  your  improvements  at  Aston, 
it  looks  so  like  settling;  if  I  come  I  will  set 
6re  to  it.  I  will  never  believe  the  B  *  *  s 
and  the  C  *  *  s  are  dead,  though  I  smelt 
them  ;  that  sort  of  peoj^le  always  live  to  a 
good  old  age.  1  dare  swear  they  are  only 
gone  to  Ireland,  and  we  shall  soon  hear 
they  are  bishops. 

The  Erse  fragments  have  been  published 
five  weeks  ago  in  Scotland,  though  I  had 
them  not  (by  a  mistake)  till  the  other  day. 
As  you  tell  me  new  tnings  do  not  reach  you 
soon  at  Aston,  I  enclose  what  L  can  ;  the 
rest  shall  follow,  when  you  tell  me  whether 

*  Had  Mr.  Pope  disregarded  the  sarcasms  of  the  many  writers 
that  endeavoured  to  eclipse  his  poetical  fame  as  much  as  Mr. 
Gray  here  appears  to  have  done,  the  world  would  not  have  been 
possessed  of  a  Dunciad ;  but  it  would  have  been  impit  ssed  with  a 
more  amiable  idea  of  its  author's  temper  It  is  for  thf  sake  of 
showing  how  Mi'.  Gray  felt  on  such  occasions ,  that  I  publish  this 
letter. 


grab's  letters.  71 

you  liave  not  got  the  pamphlet  already.  I 
send  the  two  to  Mr.  Wood  which  i  had  be- 
fore, because  he  has  not  th::  affectation  lj  not 
admiring.^  I  have  another  from  Mr.  Mac- 
pherson,  which  he  has  not  printed;  it  is 
mere  description,  but  excellent  too  in  its 
kind.  If  you  are  good  and  will  learn  to  ad- 
mire, I  will  transcribe  and  send  it. 

As  to  their  authenticity,  I  have  made  m<iny 
inquiries,  and  have  lately  procured  a  leuer 
from  Mr.  David  Hume,  (the  historian)  which 
is  m)re  satisfictory  than  any  thing  I  have 
yet  met  with  on  that  subject.     He  says, 

"Certain  it  is  that  these  poems  are  in 
every  body's  mouth  in  the  Hii^hhinds,  have 
been  handed  down  from  f.tther  to  son,  and 
are  of  an  age  beyond  all  memory  and  tradition. 
Adam  Smith,  the  celebrated  professor  in 
Glasgow,  told  me,  that  the  piper  of  the  Ar- 
gyleshire  militia  repeated  to  him  all  those 
which  Mr.  Macpherson  had  translated,  and 
many  more  of  equal  beauty.  Major  Mackay 
(lord  Rae's  brother)  told  me  that  he  remem- 
bers them  perfectly  well;  as  likewise  did 
the  laird  of  Macfarline,   (the  greatest  anti- 

*  It  was  rather  a  want  of  credulity  than  admiration  that  Mi-. 
Gray  should  h;\ve  laid  to  rny  charge.  I  suspected  that,  whether 
tHfe  fragnrieiits  were  geuuiue  or  not,  iliey  were  by  no  means  literally 
translatefl. 


GRAY  S  1'ETTER.S. 


quarian  we  have  in  this  country)  and  who 
insists  strongly  on  the  historical  truth,  as 
well  as  the  poetical  beauty  of  these  produc- 
tions. I  could  add  the  laird  and  lady  Mac- 
leod,  with  many  more,  that  live  in  different 
parts  of  the  Highlands,  very  remote  from 
each  other,  and  could  only  be  acquainted 
with  what  had  become  (in  a  manner)  na- 
tional works.  There  is  a  country  surgeon 
in  Lochaber,  who  has  by  heart  the  entire 
epic  poem  mentioned  by  Mr.  Macpherson 
in  his  preface;  and,  as  he  is  old,  is  perhaps 
the  only  person  living  that  knows  it  all,  and 
has  never  committed  it  to  writing,  we  are  in 
the  more  haste  to  recover  a  monument, 
which  will  certainly  be  regarded  as  a  curi- 
osity in  the  republic  of  letters:  we  have 
therefore  ^et  about  a  subscription  of  a  guinea 
or  two  guineas  apiece,  in  order  to  enable 
Mr.  Macpherson  to  undertake  a  mission  into 
the  Highlands  to  recover  this  poem,  and 
other  fragments  of  antiquity."  He  adds  too, 
that  the  names  of  Fingal,  Ossian,  Oscar,  &:c. 
are  stili  given  in  the  Highlands  to  large  mas- 
tiffs, as  we  give  to  ours  the  names  of  Cassar, 
Pompey,  Hector,  &c. 


gray's  letters.  73 

CXI. 

TO  DR.  WHARTON. 

Loudon,  1762. 

I  REJOICE  to  tind  that  you  not  only  grow  re- 
conciled to  your  northern  scene,  but  disco- 
ver beauties  round  you  that  once  were 
deformities:  I  am  persuaded  the  whole  mat- 
ter is  to  have  always  something  going  for- 
ward. Happy  they  that  can  create  a  ros6- 
tree,  or  erect  a  honey-suckle;  that  can  watch 
the  brood  of  a  hen,  or  see  a  fleet  of  their 
own  ducklings  launch  into  the  water:  It  is 
with  a  sentiment  of  envy  I  speak  it,  who 
never  shall  have  even  a  thatched  roof  of  my 
own,  nor  gather  a  strawberry  but  in  Covent- 
Garden.  I  will  not,  hovvever,  believe  in  the 
vocality  of  Old  Park  till  next  summer,  when 
perhaps  I  may  trust  to  my  own  ears. 

The  Nouvelle  Heloise  cruelly  disappoint- 
ed me,  but  it  has  its  partisans,  amongst  which 
are  Mason  and  Mr.  Hurd;  for  me,  I  admire 
nothing  but  Fingal*  (I  conclude  you  have 

*  In  a  letter  to  another  ft-iend.  informing  him  that  he  had  sent 
Fingal  down  to  b  iin,  he  says,  "  For  my  pait,  I  will  stiok  to  roy  cre- 
dulity, and  if  I  am  cheated,,  tliink  it  is  woi-se  for  him  [the  transla- 
tor] th«n  for  me.    The  ep'c  poem  is  foolishly  so  called,  yet  there 


74  gray's  letters. 

seen  it,  if  not,  Stonhewer  can  lend  it  you); 
yet  I  remain  still  in  doubt  about  the  authen- 
ticity of  these  poems,  though  inclining  rather 
to  believe  them  genuine  in  spite  of  the 
world;  whether  they  are  the  inventions  of 
antiquity,  or  of  a  modern  Scotchman,  either 
case  is  to  me  alike  unaccountable;  je  m'y 
pcrd. 

I  send  you  a  Swedish  and  English  calen- 
dar;* the  first  column  is  by  Berger,  a  dis- 
ciple of  LinnaBus;  the  second  by  Mr.  Stilling- 
fleet;  the  third  (very  imperfect  indeed)  by 
me.  You  are  to  observe,  as  you  tend  your 
plantations  and  take  your  walks,  how  the 
spring  advances  in  the  north,  and  whether 
Old- Park  most  resembles  Upsal  or  Stratton. 
The  latter  has  on  on6  side  a  barren  black 
heath,  on  the  other  a  light  sandy  loam,  all 
the  country  about  it  is  a  dead  flat;  you  see 
it  is  necessary  you  should  know  the  situation 
(I  do  not  mean  any  retlection  upon  any 
body's  place);  and  this    is  the   description 

ii  a  sort  of  plan  and  unity  in  it  very  strange  for  a  barbarous  age  ; 
yet  what  I  more  admire  are  some  of  the  detached  pieces  -the  rest 
I  leave  to  the  discussion  of  antiquarians  and  lustorians  :  yet  my 
curiosit)  is  much  interested  in  their  decision."  No  man  surely 
ever  took  more  pains  with  himself  to  believe  any  thing  than  Mr. 
Gray  seems  to  have  done  on  tliis  occasion. 
*  See  Stillingfleet's  Tracts,  p.  261. 


gray's  letters.  76 

Jrir.  Stiilingfleet  gives  of  iiis  friend  Mr.  Mar- 
sh ••  ii's  seat,  to  which  he  retires  in  the  sum- 
mer, and  hot.mizes.  I  have  lately  made  an 
acquiint.iace  with  thi%  philosopher,  who  lives 
in  a  garret  here  in  the  .vinter,  that  he  may 
support  some  near  rel  itions  who  depend 
upon  him;  he  is  always  employed,  conse- 
quently (according  to  my  old  maxim)  aUvays 
happy,  always  cheerful,  and  seems  to  me  a 
very  worthy  honest  man;  his  present  scheme 
is  to  send  some  persons  properly  qualified  to 
reside  a  year  or  two  in  Attica,  to  make 
themselves  acquainted  with  the  climate,  pro- 
ductions, and  natural  history  of  the  country, 
that  we  may  understand  Aristotle,  Theo- 
phrastus,  &;c.  who  have  been  heathen  Greek 
to  us  for  so  many  ages;  and  this  he  has  got 
proposed  to  lord  Bute,  no  unlikely  pe»-son 
to  put  it  into  execution,  as  he  is  himself  a 
botanist. 


CXII. 

TO  MR.  MASON. 

London,  Jan,  22, 176!. 

I  CANNOT  pity  you;  au  contruire,  1  wish  1 
had    been    at    Aston,    when    I    was    foolish 


76  gray's  letters. 

enough  to  go  through  the  six  volumes  of  the 
Noiivelle  Uklcise.  All  1  can  say  for  myself 
is,  that  I  was  confined  for  three  weeks  at 
home  by  a  severe  cold,  and  had  nothing  bet- 
ter to  do:  There  is  no  one  event  in  it  that 
might  not  happen  any  day  of  the  week  (se- 
parately taken)  in  i?ny  private  ftmiily;  yet 
these  events  are  so  put  together,  that  tlie 
series  of  them  is  more  absurd  and  more  im- 
probable than  Amadis  de  Gaul.  The  dra- 
matis personam  (as  the  author  says)  are  all 
of  them  good  characters;  1  am  sorry  to  hear 
it:  for  had  they  been  all  hanged  at  the  end 
of  the  third  volume,  no  body  (I  believe) 
would  have  cared.  In  short,  I  went  on  and 
on,  in  hopes  of  finding  some  wonderful  de- 
nouement that  would  set  all  right,  and  bring 
something  like  nature  and  interest  out  of  ab- 
surdity and  insipidity:  no  such  thing,  it 
grows  worse  and  vi^orse;  and  (if  it  be  Rous- 
seau's, which  is  not  doubted)  is  the  strongest 
instance  I  ever  saw,  that  a  very  extraordina- 
ry man  may  entirely  jristake  his  own  talents. 
By  the  motto  and  preface,  it  appears  to  be 
his  own  story,  or  something  similar  to  it.* 

*  If  it  be  eonsiJered  that  Mr.  Gray  always  prefewed  expression 
and  sentiment  to  tJie  arrangement  of  a  story,  it  may  seem  some- 
what extraoi-dinary  that  the  many  striking  beauties  of  these  kinds, 
with  which  this  singular  work  abounds,  wem  not  excepttd  from  s» 


GRAY*S  LETTERS.  77 

The  opera-house  is  crowded  this  year 
like  any  ordinary  theatre.  Elisi  is  finer  than 
any  thing  that  has  been  here  in  your  memo- 
ry: yet,  as  I  suspect,  has  been  finer  than  he 
is:  he  appears  to  be  near  fort}^  a  little  pot- 
bellied and  thick  shouldered,  otherwise  no 
bad  figure;  his  action  proper,  and  not  un- 
graceful. We  have  heard  nothing*;,  since  I 
remember  operas,  but  eternal  passa<2;es,  di- 
visions,'and  flights  of  execution:  of  these  he 
has  absolutely  none;  whether  merely  from 
judgment,  or  a  little  from  age,  I  will  not 
affirm;  his  point  is  expression,  and  to  that 
all  the  graces  and  ornaments  he  inserts 
(which  are  few  and  short)  are  evidently 
directed:  he  goes  higher  (they  say)  than 
Farinelli;  but  then  this  celestial  note  you 
do  not  hear  above  once  in  a  whole  opera; 
and  he  fills  from  this  altitude  at  once  to  the 
mellowest,  softest,  strongest  tones  (about  the 
middle  of  his  compass)  tliat  can  be  heard. 
The  Mattel,  I  assure  you,  is  much  improved 
by  his  example,  and  by  her  great  success 
this  winter;  but  then  the  burlettas,  and  the 
Faganioa,  I  have  not  been  so  pleased  with 

general  a  censure  ;  for  my  own  part  [to  use  a  phrase  of  his  ownj 
"  they  strike  me  blind"  to  all  the  defects  vThjtb  ke  has  here  enaise- 
rat«d. 


78 

any  thing  these  many  years:  she  too  is  fat, 
and  above  ("orty,  yet  handsome  withal,  and 
has  a  face  that  speaks  the  hinguage  of  all 
nations:  she  has  not  the  invention,  the  fire, 
and  the  variety  of  action  that  the  Spiletta 
had;  yet  she  is  light,  agile,  ever  in  motion, 
and  above  all  graceful;  but  then  her  voice. 

her  ear,  her  taste  in  singing:  Good  God 

as  Mr.  Richardson  the  painter  says.  Pray 
ask  lord  *  *  ;  for  I  think  1  have  seen  him 
there  once  or  twice,  as  mucli  jjleased  as  I 
was. 


CXIII. 

TO    MR.    MASON. 

August  1761. 

Be  assured  your  York  canon  never  will  die; 
so  the  better  the  thing  is  in  value,  the  worse 
for  you.*  The  true  way  to  immortality  is 
to  get  you  nominated  one's  successor:  age 
and  diseases  vanish  at  your  name;  fevers  turn 
to  radical  heat,  and  fistulas  to  issues:  it  is  a 

•  This  was  written  at  a  time,  when,  by  the  favour  of  Dr  Foun« 
tajTie.  dean  of  Yoi'k,  i  expected  to  be  laade  a  residentiaiy  in  his 
cathedral. 


gray's  letters.  79 

jutlgment  that  waits  on  your  insatiable  ava- 
rice. You  could  not  let  the  poor  old  man 
die  at  his  ease,  when  he  was  about  it;  and 
all  his  flimily  (I  suppose)  are  cursing  you 
tor  it. 

I  wrote  to  lord  *  *  *  *  on  his  recovery; 
and  he  answers  me  very  cheerfully,  as  if  his 
illness  had  been  but  slight,  and  the  pleurisy 
were  no  more  than  a  hole  in  one's  stocking. 
He  got  it  (he  says)  not  by  scampering,  rack- 
etting,  and  riding  post,  as  I  had  ^supposed; 
but  by  going  with  ladies  to  Vauxhail.  He 
is  the  picture  (and  pray  so  tell  him,  if  you 
see  him)  of  an  old  alderman  that  I  knew, 
who,  after  living  forty  years  on  the  fat  of  the 
land,  (not  milk  and  honey,  but  arrack  punch 
and  venison)  and  losing  his  great  toe  with  a 
mortification,  said  to  the  last,  that  he  owed 
it  to  two  grapes,  which  he  eat  one  day  after 
diriner.  He  felt  them  lie  cold  at  his  stomach 
the  minute  they  were  down. 

Mr,  Montagu  (as  1  guess,  at  your  instiga- 
tion) has  earnestly  desired  me  to  write  some 
lines  to  be  put  on  a  monument,  which  he 
means  to  erect  at  Bellisle.*  It  is  a  task  I 
do  not  love,  knowing  sir  William  Williams 
so  slightly  as  I  did:  but  he   is  so  friendly  a 

*  See  Poems. 


80  gray's  letters. 

person,  an<^  his  afiliction  seemed  to  me  so 
re;jl,  that  I  coiiid  not  refuse  Linj.  J  have 
sent  him  the  following  verses,  which  I  nei- 
ther hke  myself,  nor  will  he,  I  doubt:  how- 
ever, I  have  showed  him  that  I  wished  to 
ohhge  him.     Tell  me  your  real  opinion. 


CXiV. 

TO  MR.    WALFOLE. 

Sunday,  Februaiy  28,  176S. 

I  RETURN  yon  my  best  thanks  i'or  the  copy 
of  your  book,*  which  you  ^.ent  me,  and  have 
not  at  all  lessened  my  opinion  of  it  since  I 
read  it  in  print,  though  the  press  has  in 
general  a  bad  effect  on  the  comrdexion  of 
one's  works.  The  engravings  look,  as  you 
say,  better  than  1  had  expected,  yet  not  alto- 
gether so  well  as  I  could  wish.  1  rejoice  in 
the  good  dispositions  of  our  court,  and  in  the 
propriety  of  their  application  to  you:  the 
work  is  a  thing  so  much  to  be  wished;  has 
so  near  a  connection  with  the  turn  of  your 
studies  Hnd  of  your  curiosity;  and  might  find 
such  ample  njaterials  among  your  hoards  and 
in  your  head;  that  it  will  be  a  sin  if  you  let 

•  The  Anecdotes  of  Painting.    B. 


gray's  letters.  81 

it  drop  and  conie  to  nothing,  or  worse  than 
nothing,  for  want  of  your  assistance.  The 
liistorical  part  should  be  in  the  nrianner  of 
Henault,  a  mere  abridgement,  a  series  of 
ikcts  selected  with  judgment,  that  may  serve 
as  a  clew  to  lead  the  mind  along  in  the  midst 
of  those  ruins  and  scattered  monuments  of  art, 
that  time  has  spared.  This  would  be  suffi- 
cient, and  better  than  Montfaucvn's  more  dif- 
fuse narrative.  Such  a  work  (I  have  heard) 
Mr.  Burke  is  now  employed  about,  which 
though  not  intended  for  this  purpose,  might 
be  applied  perhaps  to  this  use.  Then  jit  the 
end  of  each  reign  should  come  a  disserta- 
tion explanatory  of  the  plates,  and  pointing 
out  the  turn  of  thought,  the  customs,  cere- 
monials, arms,  dresses,  luxury,  and  private 
iife,  with  the  improvement  or  decline  of  the 
arts  during  that  period.  This  you  must  do 
yourself,  beside  taking  upon  you  the  super- 
intendance,  direction,  and  choice  of  materi- 
als. As  to  the  expense,  that  must  be  the 
king's  own  entirely,  and  he  must  give  the 
book  to  foreign  ministers  and  people  of  note; 
for  it  is  obvious  no  private  man  can  under- 
take such  a  thing  without  a  subscription,  and 
no  gentleman  will  care  for  such  an  expedi- 
ent; and  a  gentleman  it  should  be,  because 
he  must  have  easy  access  to  archives,  cabi- 
voL.  IV,  22 


82  gray's  letters. 

nets,  and  collections  of  all  sorts.  I  protest 
I  tlo  not  think  it  impossible  but  they  may 
give  into  such  a  scheme:  they  approve  the 
design,  they  wish  to  encourage  the  arts  and 
to  be  magnificent,  and  they  have  no  Ver- 
sailles or  Herculaneum. 

I  hope  to  see  you  toward  theend  of  March. 
If  you  bestow  a  line  on  me,  pray  tell  me 
whether  the  baronne  de  la  Peyriere  is  gone 
to  her  castle  of  Viry;  and  whether  Fingal 
be  discovered  or  shrewdly  suspected  to  be  a 
forgery.     Adieu! 


cxv. 


TO  DR.  WHARTaN. 

Cambridge,  Dec.  4,1762. 

I  FEEi,  very  ungrateful  every  day  that  1 
continue  silent;  and  yet  now  that  1  take  my 
pen  in  hand  I  have  only  time  to  tell  you, 
that  of  all  the  places  which  I  saw  in  my  re- 
turn from  you,  Hardwicke  pleased  me  the 
most.*  One  would  think  that  Mary,  queen 
of  Scots,  was  but  just  walked  down  into  the 
park  with  her  guard  for  half  an  hour;    her 

*  A  seat  of  the  Duke  of  Devoasbire,  iu  Derbyshire. 


gray's  letters.  83 

gallery,  her  room  of  audience,  her  anti- 
chamber,  with  the  very  canopies,  chair  of 
state,  footstool,  lit  de  rcpos,  oratory,  carpets, 
and  hangings,  just  as  she  left  them:  a  little 
tattered  indeed,  but  the  more  venerable;  and 
all  preserved  with  religious  care,  and  pa- 
pered up  in  winter. 

When  I  arrived  in  London,  I  found  pro- 
fessor Turner*  had  been  dead  above  a  fort- 
night; and  being  cockered  and  spirited  up 
by  some  friends  (though  it  was  rather  the 
latest)  I  got  my  name  suggested  to  lord  Bute. 
You  may  easily  imagine  who  undertook  it, 
and  indeed  he  did  it  with  zeal.j  1  received 
my  answer  very  soon,  which  was  what  you 
may  easily  imagine,  but  joined  with  great 
protessions  of  his  desire  to  serve  me  on  fu- 
ture occasions,  and  many  more  fine  words 
that  1  pass  over,  not  out  of  modesty,  but  for 
another  reason:  so  you  see  I  have  made  my 
fortune  like  sir  Francis  Wronghead.  This 
nothing  is  a  profound  secret,  and  no  one 
here  suspects  it  even  now.     To-day  I  hear 

*  Professor  of  modem  languages  in  the  unirersity  of  Cambridgie. 

t  This  person  was  the  late  sir  Henry  Erskine.  As  this  was  tb* 
only  application  Mr.  Gray  ever  made  to  ministry,  I  thought  it 
necessary  to  insert  his  o^^^l  account  of  it.  The  place  in  questioft 
was  given  to  the  tutor  of  sir  James  Lowtber. 


o4  GRAY  S   LETTERS.  ' 

Mr.  E.  Delavai*  has  got  it,  but  we  are  not 
yet  certain;  next  to  myself,  I  wished  for 
him. 

You  see  we  have  made  a  peace.  I  shall 
be  silent  about  it,  because  if  I  say  any  thing 
anti-ministerial,  you  will  tell  me  you  know 
the  reason;  and  if  I  approve  it,  you  will 
think  I  have  my  expectations  still.  All  I 
know  is,  that  the  duke  of  Newcastle  and 
lord  Hardwick  both  say  it  is  an  excellent 
peace,  and  only  Mr.  Pitt  calls  it  inglorious 
and  insidious. 


CXVI. 

TO    MR.    MASON, 

February  8,  1763.. 

DocTissiME  domine,  anne  tibi   arrident  com- 
plimenta  ?t     If  so,    I    hope   your  vanity    is 

*  Fellow  of  Pembroke-Hall,  and  of  the  Royal  Society. 

t  William  Taylor  Howe,  esq.  of  Stoudou  Place,  ueai-  Chipping- 
Ougar,  in  Essex,  an  honorary  fellow  of  Pembroke-Hall,  was  now 
on  his  travels  in  Italy,  where  he  hid  made  an  acquaintance  with 
the  celebrated  count  Alajarotti,  and  had  recommended  to  him  'Mx. 
Gray's  poems  and  my  dramas.  After  the  perusal  he  received  a 
jetter  from  the  count,  written  in  that  style  of  superlative  panegyric, 
peculiar  to  Italians.    A  copy  of  thij  letter  Mr.  Howe  had  just  now 


gray's  letters.  85 

tickled  with  the  verghe  (Voro  of  count  Alga- 
rotti,  and  the  intended  translation  of  Sig«*. 
Agostino  Paradisi:  for  my  part,  I  am  ravished 
(for  1  too  have  my  share).  Are  you  upon, 
the  road  to  see  all  these  wonders,  and  snuff 
up  the  incense  of  Pisa;  or  has  Mr.  Brown 
abated  your  ardour  by  sending  you  the  ori- 
ginals?  I  am  waiting  with  impatience  for 
your  coming. 

I  am  obliged  to  you  for  your  drawing  and 
very    learned  dissertation   annexed.*      You 

sent  to  «ur  common  friend  ISIi-.  BrowTi,  then  presUlent  of  the 
college ;  and  also  another  of  the  count's,  addressed  to  Sigr.  Paradisi, 
a  Tuscan  poet ;  m  which,  after  explaining  the  arguments  of  my 
two  dramatic  poems,  he  advises  him  to  translate  them  ;  but 
piincipally  Caractacus.— This  anecdote  not  only  explains  the  above 
paragraph,  but  the  subsequent  letter.  The  Latin,  at  the  beginning 
of  the  letter,  alludes  to  a  similar  expression  which  a  fellow  of  a 
oollege  had  made  use  of  to  a  foreigner  who  dined  in  th«  college 
hall.  Having  occasion  to  ask  him  if  he  would  eat  any  cabbage  to 
bis  boiled  beef,  he  said  "  anne  tibi  arrident  herba  ?" 

*  This  relates  to  the  ruin  of  a  small  Gothic  chapel  near  the 
north-west  end  of  the  cathedral  at  York,  not  noticed  by  Dvakc 
in  his  Eboracum.  When  Mr.  Gray  made  nie  a  viit  at  that  place 
the  summer  before,  he  was  much  struck  with  the  beautiful 
proportion  of  the  windows  in  it,  which  induced  me  to  get  Mr. 
Paul  Sandby  to  make  a  drawing  of  it  ;  and  also  to  endeavour,  iji 
a  letter  to  Mr.  Gray  to  explain  to  what  foundation  it  belonged. 
As  his  answer  contains  some  excellent  general  ivmarks  on  Gothic 
building,  I  thought  proper  to  publish  it,  though  the  particula. 
reatter  which  occasionetl  them  was  not  of  any  great  consequence 


86  gray's  letters. 

have  made  out  your  point  with  a  ^reat  de- 
gree of  probability,  (for  though  the  nimis 
adhcesit  might  startle  one,  yet  the  sale  of  the 
tithes  and  chapel  to  Webster  seems  to  set 
all  right  again)  and  I  do  believe  the  building 
in  question  was  the  chapel  of  St.  Sepulchre. 
But  then,  that  the  ruin  now  stranding  was 
the  individual  chapel,  as  erected  by  arch- 
bishop Roger,  I  can  by  no  means  think.  I 
found  myself  merely  on  the  style  and  taste 
of  architecture.  The  vaults  under  the  choir 
are  still  in  being,  and  were  undoubted!}^ 
built  by  this  very  archbishop:  they  are  truly 
Saxon;  only  that  the  arches  are  pointed, 
though  very  obtusely.  It  is  the  south  tran- 
sept (not  the  north)  that  is  the  oldest  part  of 
the  minster  now  above  ground:  it  is  said  to 
have  been  begun  by  Geffery  Plantagenet, 
who  died  about  thirty  years  after  Roger,  and 
left  it  unfinished.  His  successor,  Walter 
Grey,  completed  it;  so  we  do  not  exactly 
know  to  which  of  these  two  prelates  we  ar« 
to  ascribe  any  certain  part  of  it.  Grey  lived 
a  long  time,  and  was  archbishop  from  1216 
to  1255  (39  Henry  HI.);  and  in  this  reign 
it  was,  that  the  beauty  of  the  Gothic  archi- 
tecture began  to  appear.  The  chapter- 
house is  in  all  probability  his  work,  and  (I 
should  suppose)    built   in   his    latter  ^ays; 


87 

whereas,  what  he  did  of  the  south  tran- 
sept might  be  performed  soon  after  his  ac 
cession.  It  is  in  the  second  order  of  this 
building,  that  the  round  arches  appear,  in- 
cluding a  row  of  pointed  ones,  (which  you 
mention,  and  which  I  also  observed)  similar 
to  those  in  St.  Sepulchre's  chapel,  though 
far  inferior  in  the  proportions  and  neatness 
of  workmanship.  The  same  thing  is  re- 
peated in  the  north  transept;  but  this  is  only 
an  imitation  of  the  other,  done  for  the  sake 
of  regularity;  for  this  part  of  the  building 
is  no  older  than  archbishop  Romaine,  who 
came  to  the  see  in  1285,  and  died  1295. 

All  the  buildings  of  Henry  the  Second's 
time  (under  whom  Roger  lived  and  died, 
1 185)  are  of  a  clumsy  and  heav}^  proportion, 
with  a  few  rude  and  awkward  ornaments: 
and  this  style  continues  to  the  beginning  of 
Henry  the  Third's  reign,  though  with  a  little 
improvement^  as  in  the  nave  of  Fountain's 
abbey,  &:c.  then  all  at  once  come  in  the  tall 
j)icked  arches,  the  light  clustered  columns, 
the  capitals  of  curling  foliage,  the  fretted 
tabernacles  and  vaultings,  and  a  profusion 
of  statues,  &,c.  that  constitute  the  good  Gothic 
style;  together  with  decreasing  and  flying 
buttresses,  and  pinnacles,  on  the  outside. 
Nor  must  you  conclude  any  thing  from  Ro- 


<55  GRAY  3    LETTERS. 

ger's  own  tomb,  which  has  (I  remember)  a 
wide  surbased  arch  with  scalloped  orna- 
roents,  &:c.  for  this  can  be  no  older  th-an  the 
nave  it!*eir,  which  was  built  by  archbishop 
Melton,  after  the  year  1315,  one  hundred 
and  thirty  years  after  Roger's  death. 

i  have  compared  Helvetius  and  Elfrida,  as 
yoa  desired  me,*  and   tind  thirteen  parallel 

*  As  the  plagiarism,  to  which  Mr.  Gray  here  alludes,  is  but 
iittle  known,  and,  1  think,  for  its  singularity,  is  somewhat  curious, 
1  shall  beg  the  reader's  patience  while  I  dilate  upon  it  ;  though  I 
am  aware  it  will  stretch  this  note  to  an  unconscionable  length. 
M.  Helvetius,  in  the  third  chapter  of  his  third  essay  de 
VEsprit,  which  tifats  of  the  extent  of  memory,  means  to 
prove  that  this  faculty,  in  the  extreme,  is  not  necessary  to  con- 
stitute a  great  genius.  For  this  purpose  he  examines  whether  the 
greatness  of  the  very  different  talents  of  Locke  and  of  Milton 
ought  to  be  considered  as  the  effect  of  their  possessmg  this  taleat  in 
an  extraordinary  degree.  He  then  proceeds  as  follows :  "  As  the 
last  example  of  the  small  extent  of  memory  necessary  to  a  fine 
imagination,  I  shall  give  in  a  note  tlie  translation  of  a  piece  of 
English  poetry  ;  which,  with  the  preceding,  will,  I  believe,  prove 
t  o  those  who  would  decompose  the  works  of  illustrious  men,  that 
a  great  genius  does  not  necessarily  suppose  a  great  memory."  I 
now  set  down  that  note  with  references  to  Elfi-ida  underneath  it, 
and  I  choose  to  Ji'ive  it  in  the  English  translation  printed  in  1759, 
that  the  parallel  passages  may  be  the  more  obvious  at  first  sight. 
■ '  A  young  virgin,  awaked  and '  guided  by  love,  goes  before  the 
appearance  of  Aurora  to  a  valley,  where  she  waits  for  the  coming 
of  her  lover,  who,  at  the  rising  of  the  sun,  is  to  offer  a  sacrifice  to 
the  gods.  Htr  soul ,  in  the  soft  situation  in  which  she  is  placed 
by  the  hopes  of  approaching  hap>)iness,  indulges,   while  wa!tin|^ 


gray's  letters.  89 

passages;  five  of  which,  at  leiist,  are  so 
direct  and  close  as  to  leave  no  shadow  of  a 

for  him,  the  pleasure  of  contemplating  the  beauties  of  nature,  and 
the  rising  of  that  luminarj-  that  was  to  bring  the  object  of  her  ten- 
derness."   She  expresses  herself  thus  : 

"  Ah-eady  the  sun  gilds  the  top  of  those  antique  oaks,  and  the 
waves  of  those  falling  torrents  that  roar  among  the  rocks  shine 
with  his  beams ;  already  I  perceive  the  summit  of  those  shaggy 
mountains  whence  arises  the  vaults  which,  half  concealed  in  the 
air,  offer  a  formidable  retreat  to  the  solitary  who  there  retires  (1). 
Night  folds  up  her  veil  Ye  wanton  fires,  that  mislead  the  wan- 
dering (traveller,  retire  (3)  to  the  quagmire*  and  marshy  fens  ; 
and  thou  sun,  lord  •f  the  heavens,  who  fillest  the  aii"  with  reviving 
heat,  who  sowest  with  dewy  pearls  the  flowers  of  these  meadows, 
and  givest  colours  to  the  varied  beauties  ef  nature,  receive  ray  first 
homage  (3),  and  hasten  thy  course.     Thy  appearance  proclaims 

Cl)  How  nobly  does  this  venerable  wood, 

Gilt  with  the  glories  of  the  orient  sun, 

Embosom  yon  fair  mansion  .' 

On  the  shaggy  mound, 

Wkere  tumbling  torrents  roar  around ; 

AVhere  pendent  mountains  o'er  your  head 

Stretch  a  formidable  shade — 

Where  luU'd  in  pious  peace  the  hermit  lies. 
C2)  Away,  ye  goblins  all, 

Wont  the  hew  ilder'd  traveller  to  daunt— 
13)  Hail  to  thy  living  light 

Ambrosial  Mom— 

That  bids  each  dewy-spangled  floweret  rise. 

And  dart  around  its  vermeil  dies- 
Unfolds  the  scene  of  glory  to  our  eye,  , 

Where,  throned  in  artless  majesty, 

The  cherub  Beauty  sits  on  Nature's  rustie  shriBfe.— 


00  gray's  letters. 

doubt,  and  therefore  confirm  all  the  rest. 
It  is  a  phaenomenon  that  you  will  be  in  the 

that  of  my  lover.  Freed  from  the  pieus  cares  that  detain  him 
still  at  the  foot  of  the  altars,  love  wiH  soon  bring  him  to  nnm  (4). 
Let  all  around  me  partake  of  my  joy.  Let  all  bless  the  rising 
luminary  by  which  we  are  enlightened.  Ye  flowers,  that  enclose 
in  your  bosoins  the  odours  that  cool  night  condenses  theiv,  open 
your  buds,  and  exhale  in  the  air  your  balmy  vapours.  I  know  not 
whether  the  delightful  intoxication  that  possesses  my  soul,  does 
not  embellish  whatever  I  behold  ;  but  the  rivulet,  that  in  pleading 
meanders  winds  along  this  valley,  enchants  me  with  his  mui-murs. 
Zephyrus  caresses  me  with  his  breath  ;  the  fragrant  plants,  pressed 
under  my  feet,  waft  to  my  senses  their  perfume.  Oh !  if  Felicity 
sometimes  condescends  to  Aisit  the  abodes  of  mortals,  to  these 
placts,  doubtless,  she  retires  (5).    But  with  what  secret  trouble  am 

1  agitated  ?  Already  in-patience  mingles  its  poison  with  the  sweet- 
ness of  my  expectation.  This  valley  has  already  lost  all  its  beau- 
ties.  Is  Joy  then  so  fleeting  ?  It  is  as  easy  to  snatch  it  from  us, 
as  for  the  light  down  of  these  plants  to  be  blown  away  by  the 
breath  of  the  Zephyrs  (6).    In  vain  have  I  recourse  to  flattering 

(4)  'Twill  not  be  long,  ere  his  unbending  mind 
Shall  lose  in  sweet  oblivion  evaT^  care 
Among  the  embowering  shades  that  veil  Elfrida. 

(5)  The  soft  air 
Salutes  me  with  most  cool  and  temperate  breath, 
And,  as  I  tread,  the  flower-besprinkled  lawn 
Sends  up  a  gale  of  fragrance.    I  should  guess, 
If  e'er  content  deign'd  visit  mortil  clime, 
This  was  her  place  of  dearest  residence. 

(6)  For  safety  now  sits  wavering  on  your  love. 
Like  the  light  down  upon  the  thistle's  beard, 
Which  every  breeze  may  part. 


gray's  letters.  91 

right  to  inform  yourself  about,  and  which  I 
long  to  understand.      Another  phainomenon 

hope.  Each  moment  increases  my  disturbance.  He  will  come  no 
more.  "Who  keeps  him  at  a  distance  from  me  ?  What  duty  more 
lacred  than  that  of  'aiming  the  Inquietudes  of  love  ?  But  what  do 
I  sav?  Fly,  jealous  suspicions,  injurious  to  his  fidelity,  (7)  and 
formed  to  extinguish  my  tenderness.  If  jealousy  grows  by  the  side 
of  love,  it  will  stifle  't  if  not  puUed  up  by  the  roots ;  it  is  the 
ivy  which,  by  a  verdant  chf>in.  embraces,  but  dries  up  the  trunk 
which  serves  for  its  support  (8).  I  know  my  lover  too  well  to 
doubt  of  his  tenderness.  He,  lUiC  me,  has,  far  from  the  pomps  of 
courts,  sought  the  tranquil  asylum  of  the  fields.  Touched  by  the 
simplicitj  of  my  heart,  and  by  my  beauty,  my  sensual  rivals  call 
him  in  vain  to  their  arms.  Shall  he  be  seduced  by  the  advances  of 
coquetry,  which,  on  the  cheek  of  the  young  maid,  tarnishes  the 
snow  of  innocence  and  the  carnation  of  modesty,  and  daubs  it  with 
the  whiteness  of  art  and  the  paint  of  effrontery  ?  (9)  What  do  I 
say  ?  his  contempt  for  her  is  perhaps  only  a  snare  for  me.  Can  I 
be  ignorant  of  the  partiality  of  men,  and  the  arts  they  employ  to 
seduce  us  ?   Nourished  in  a  contempt  for  our  sex,  it  is  not  us,  it  is 

(7)  Ayaunt !  ye  vain  delusive  feasr. 
(8)  See  Elfrida. 
Ah  see  !  how  round  yon  branching  elm  the  ivy. 
Clasps  its  green  chain,  and  poisons  what  supports  it. 
Not  less  injurious  to  the  shoots  of  love 
!•  sickly  jealousy. 

(9)— To  guard 
Your  beauties  from  the  Hast  of  courtly  gales. 
The  ci-imson  blush  of  virgin  modesty, 
The  delicate  soft  tints  of  innocence. 
There  all  fly  ofl^  and  leave  no  boast  behi^d 
But  well-rangtd,  faded  features. 


S2  gray's  letters. 

is,  that  I  read  it  without  finding  it  out:   all  I 
remember  is,  that  1   thought  it  not  at  all 

tkeir  pleasures  that  they  love.  Cruel  as  they  are,  they  hare  placeil 
in  the  rank  of  the  virtues  the  barbarous  fury  of  revenge,  and  the 
mad  love  of  their  country  ;  but  never  have  they  reckoned  fidelity 
among  the  virtues.  Without  remorse  they  abuse  innocence,  and 
often  their  vanity  contemplates  our  griefs  with  delight.  But  no ; 
fly  far  from  me,  ye  odious  thoughts,  my  lover  will  come !  A  thou, 
sand  times  have  I  experienced  it :  As  soon  as  I  perceive  him/  ray 
agitated  mind  is  calm,  and  I  often  forget  the  too  just  cause  I 
hare  for  complaint ;  for  near  him  I  can  only  know  happiness  (10). 
Yet  if  he  is  treacherous  to  me  ;  if,  in  the  very  moment  when  my 
love  excuses  him,  he  consummates  the  crime  of  infidelity  in  another 
ijosom,  may  all  nature  take  up  arms  in  revenge !  may  he  perish  ! 
What  do  I  say  ?  Ye  elements,  be  deaf  to  my  cries  !  Thou  earth, 
open  not  thy  profoimd  abyss .'  let  the  monster  walk  the  time  pre- 
scribed him  on  thy  splendid  surface,  let  him  still  commit  new 
«rimes,  and  still  cause  the  tears  of  the  too  credulous  maids  to 
flow :  and  if  heaven  avenges  them  and  punishes  him.  may  it  at 
least  be  at  the  prayer  of  some  other  unfortunate  woman  (11)." 
Here  ends  this  odd  instance  of  plagiarism.  When  M.  Helve- 
tiu8  was  in  England,  a  year  or  two  after  I  had  made  the  disco- 

(1.0)— My  truant  heart 
Forgets  each  lesson  that  Resentment  taught, 
And  in  thy  sight  knows  only  to  be  happy. 

In  the  French  it  is  more  literal,  "Pres  de  lui  je  ne  seals  qu'etre 
heureuse." 

(11)  Till  then,  ye  elements,  rest ;  and  thou,  firm  earth, 
Ope  not  thy  yav/ning  jaws  ;  but  let  this  monster 
Stalk  his  due  time  on  thine  affrighted  surface  :  • 
Yes,  let  him  still  go  on,  still  execute 
His  savage  purposes  and  daily  make 
More  widoM's  weep,  as  I  do. 


gray's  letters.  23 

English,  and  did  not  nauch  like  it;  and  the 
reason  is  plain,  for  the  lyric  flights  and  cho- 
ral flowers  suited  not  in  the  least  with  the 
circumstances  or  character  of  the  speaker, 
as  he  had  contrived  it. 


CXVII. 

TO    MH.    BROWN.* 

February  17,  1763. 

You  will  make  my  best  acknowledgments  to 
Mr.  How;  who,  not  content  to  rank  me  in 
the  number  of  his  friends,  is  so  polite  as  to 
make  excuses  for  having  done  me  that  hon- 
our. 

very  of  it,  I  took  my  measures  (as  Mr.  Gray  advised  me)  to  learn 
bow  he  cauie  by  it ;  ai»d  accordingly  requested  two  noblemen,  tc 
whom  he  was  introduced,  to  ask  him  some  questions  concerning 
it ;  but  I  could  gain  no  satisfactory  answer.  I  d»iiot,  however, 
by  any  means,  suppose  that  the  x>€rson  who  cooked  up  the  dis- 
jointed parts  of  my  di-ama  into  this  strange  fricasse,  was  M  Hel- 
vetius  himself;  I  rather  imagine  (as  I  did  fr«m  the  first)  that  he 
Was  imposed  upon  by  someyoiuig  English  traveller  who  contrived 
this  expedient  in  order  to  pass  with  him  for  a  poet.  The  great 
philosopher,  it  is  true,  has  in  this  note  been  proved  to  be  the 
receiver  of  stden  goods;  but  out  of  respect  to  bis  numerous 
fashionable  disciples,  botli  abroad  and  at  home,  whose  credit 
might  suffer  with  that  of  their  master,  I  acquit  bin)  of  what 
would  only  be  held  criminal  at  the  Old  Bailey,  that  he  veceiTed 
these  goods  knowing  t/iem  to  be  stolen- 

*  Since  of  Pembroke-Hall. 


94  aRAV's    LETTERS. 

I  was  not  born  so  far  from  the  sun,  as  to 
be  ignorant  of  count  Algarotti's  name  and 
reputation;  nor  am  I  so  far  advanced  in 
3'ears,  or  in  philosophy,  as  not  to  feel  the 
warsnth  of  his  approbation.  The  odes  in 
question,  as  their  motto  shows,  were  meant 
to  be  vocal  to  the  intelligent  alone.  How  ie.w 
they  were  in  my  own  country,  Mr.  How  can 
testify;  and  yet  my  ambition  was  terminated 
by  that  small  circle.  I  have  good  reason 
to  be  proud,  if  my  voire  has  reached  the  ear 
and  apprehension  of  a  stranger,  distinguish- 
ed as  one  of  the  best  judges  in  Europe. 

I  am  equally  pleased  with  the  just  ap- 
plause he  bestows  on  Mr.  Mason;  and  parti- 
cularly on  his  Caractacus,  which  is  the  work 
of  a  man:  whereas  Elfrida  is  only  that  of  a 
boy,  a  promising  boy  indeed,  and  of  no  com- 
mon genius:  yet  this  is  the  popular  perfor- 
mance, and  the  other  little  known  in  compa- 
rison. 

Neither  count  Algarotti  nor  Mr.  How  (I 
believe)  have  heard  of  Ossian,  the  son  of 
Fingal.  If  Mr.  How  were  not  upon  the 
wing,  and  on  his  way  homewards,  I  would 
send  it  to  him  in  Italy.  He  would  there  see 
that  imagination  dwelt  many  hundred  years 
ago,  in  all  her  pomp,  on  the  cold  and  barren 
mountains  of  Scotland.     The  truth   (1  be 


fray's  letters.  95 

lieve)  is,  that,  without  any  respect  of  cli- 
mates, she  reigns  in  all  nascent  societies  of 
men,  where  the  necessities  of  life  force  eve- 
ry one  to  think  and  act  much  for  himself.* 


CXVIII. 


COUNT    ALGAROTTI    TO    MR.    GRAY. 

Pisa,24  Aprile,  1763. 

SoNO  stato  lungo  tempo  in  dubbio  se  un 
dilettante  quale  io  sono,  dovea  mandare 
alcune  sue  coserelle  a  un  professore  quale 
e  V.  S.  Illus^,  a  un  arbitro  di  ogni  poetica 
eleganza  Ne  ci  voiea  meno  che  Tautorita 
del  valorissimo  Sigr.  How  per  persuadermi 
a  cio  fare.  V.  S.  111^  accolga  queste  mie 
coserelle  con  quella  medesima  bonta  con 
cui  ha  voluto  accogliere   quella  lettera  che 

•  Cue  is  led  to  think  from  this  parag:raph  that  the  scepticism, 
which  Mr.  Gray  had  expressed  before,  concerning  these  works  of 
Ossian,  was  now  entirly  removed.  I  know  no  way  of  accounting 
for  this  (as  he  had  certaiidy  received  no  stronger  evidence  of  their 
authenticity)  but  from  the  turn  of  his  studies  at  the  time.  He  had 
of  late  much  busied  himself  in  antiquities,  and  consequently  had 
imbibed  too  much  of  the  spirit  of  a  professed  antiquarian;  now 
we  know,  from  a  thousand  instances,  that  no  set  of  men  are  more 
willingly  duped  than  these,  especially  by  any  thing  that  comes  to 
them  under  the  fascinating  form  of  a  new  discovery. 


96  gray's  letters. 

dice  pur  poco  delle  tante  cose,  che  fanno 
sentire  alle  anirne  armoniche  di  ammirabili 
suoi  versi.  lo  saro  per  quanto  io  porro, 
Preeco  laudum  ttiarmn^  e  quella  mia  leltera 
si  stampera  in  un  nuovo  Giornale,  che  si  fa 
m  Venezia,  intitolato  la  Minerva,  perche 
tappia  la  Italia  che  la  Inghilterra,  ricca  di 
un  Omero*  di  uno  Archimede,!  di  un  De- 
mostene,!  non  manca  del  suo  Pindaro.  Al 
Sig'*  How  le  non  saprei  dire  quanti  ob- 
blighi  io  abbia,  ma  si  maggiore  e  certarnente 
quello  di  avermi  presentato  alia  sua  Musa 
e  di  avermi  procurato  la  occasione  di  po- 
terla  assicurare  della  perfetta  ed  altissima 
stima,  con  cui  io  ho  I'honore  di  sottescri- 
vermi, 

De  V.  S.  Illusm^ 
Devotis.  &LC. 

Algarottt. 


CXIX. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Pembix)ke-HaU,  August  5, 1763, 

You  may  well  wonder  at  my  long  taciturnity. 
I   wonder  too,   and  know  not  what  cause  to 

*  Milton.  t  Newton.  4.  IVIi-.  Pitt. 


gray's  letters.  57 

assign  ;  for  it  is  certain  I  think  of  you  daily. 
I  believe  it  is  owing  to  the  nothingness  of 
my  history  ;  for  except  six  weeks  that  I 
passed  in  town  to-^ards  the  end  of  the  spring, 
and  a  little  jaunt  to  Epsom  and  Box-hill,  I 
have  been  here  time  out  of  mind,  in  a 
place  where  no  events  grow,  though  we 
preserve  those  of  former  days,  by  way  of 
Hortiis  siccus,  in  our  libraries. 

I  doubt  you  have  not  yet  read  Rousseau's 
Emile.  Every  body  that  has  children  should 
read  it  more  than  once  :  tor  though  it 
abounds  with  his  usual  glorious  absurdity, 
though  his  general  scheme  of  education  be 
an  impracticable  chimera,  yet  there  are  a, 
thousand  lights  struck  out,  a  thousand  im- 
portant truths  better  expressed  than  ever 
they  were  before,  that  may  be  of  service  to 
the  wisest  men.  Particularly,  I  think  he 
has  observed  children  with  more  attention, 
and  knows  their  meaning  and  the  working 
of  their  little  passions  better  than  any  other 
writer.  *  As  to  his  religious  discussions, 
which  have  alarmed  the  world,  and  engaged 
their  thoughts  more  than  any  other  part  of 
his  book,  I  set  them  all  at  naught,  and  wish 
they  had  been  omitted.-^ 

*  That  I  may  put  together  the  rest  of  Mr.  Gray's  sentiments 
ooncerning  this  singular  writer,  I  insert  here  an  extract  from  a 
VOL.   IV.  ■        23 


9%  gray's  letters. 


CXX. 


TO    MR.    HOW. 

Cambridge,  Sept.  10,  1763. 

1  OUGHT  long  since  to  have  made  you  my 
acknowledgments  for  the  obliging  testimo- 
nies of  your  esteem  that  you  have  conferred 
upon  me  ;  but  count  Algarotti's  books*  did 
not  come  to  my  hands  till  the  end  of  July, 
and  since  that  time  I  have  been  prevented  by 

letter  of  a  later  date,  wvitten  to  myself.  "  I  have  not  read  the  Phi. 
losophic  Dictionary.  I  can  now  stay  with  gi-eat  patience  for  any 
thing  that  comes  from  Voltaire.  They  tell  me  it  is  fripperj-,  and  blas- 
pheniy,  and  wit.  I  could  have  forgiven  mjsell  if  1  had  not  read 
Rousseau's  l<ettres  de  la  Montagne  Always  excepiting  the  Con- 
tract Social,  it  is  the  dullest  performance  he  ever  j)ublished  It  is 
a  weak  attempt  to  separate  the  miracles  froin  the  morality  of  the 
Gospel.  The  latter  (he  would  have  you  think)  he  believes  was 
sent  from  God  ;  and  the  Ibrmer  he  very  explicitly  takes  for  an  im- 
posture :  this  is  in  oi-der  to  prove  the  cruelty  and  injustice  of  the 
state  of  Geneva  in  burning  his  Emile.  The  latter  part  of  his 
book  is  to  show  the  abuses  that  have  crept  into  the  constitution  <«f 
his  country,  -which  point  (if  you  are  concerned  about  it)  he  makes 
out  very  well  ;  and  bis  intention  in  this  is  plainly  to  raise  a  tumult 
in  the  city,  and  to  be  revenged  on  the  Petit  Conseil,  who  condemn- 
ed his  writhigs  to  the  flames." 

*  Three  small  treatises  on  painting,  the  opera,  and  the  French 
academy  for  painters  in  Italy  :  they  have  been  since  collected  in 
the  Leghorn  edition  of  his  works.  ^ 


gray's  letters.  99 

illness  from  doing  any  of  my  duties.  I  have 
re.id  them  more  than  once,  with  increasing 
satisfaction  ;  and  should  wish  mankind  had 
eyes  to  descry  the  genuine  sources  of  their 
own  pleasures,  and  judgment  to  know  the 
extent  that  nature  has  prescribed  to  them  : 
if  this  were  the  case,  it  would  be  their 
interest  to  appoint  count  Algarotti  their 
"  arbiter  elegantiarum."  He  is  highly  civil 
to  our  nation  ;  but  there  is  one  point  in 
which  he  does  not  do  us  justice:  I  am  the 
moFe  solicitous  about  it,  because  it  relates 
to  the  only  taste  we  can  call  our  own  ; 
the  only  proof  of  our  original  talent  in 
matters  of  pleasure,  I  mean  our  skill  in 
gardening,  or  rather  laying  out  grounds  ; 
and  this  is  no  small  honour  to  us,  since 
neither  Italy  nor  France  have  ever  had  the 
least  notion  of  it,  nor  yet  do  at  all  com- 
prehend it  when  they  see  it.  That  the 
Chinese  have  this  beautiful  art  in  high  per- 
fection, seems  very  probable  from  the 
Jesuits'  Letters,  and  more  from  Chambers's 
little  discourse,  published  some  years  ago  ;* 
but   it   is   very  certain   Ave  copied    nothing 

•  The  author  has  since  enlarged,  and  published  it  under  the 
title  of  a  Dissertation  on  Oriental  Gardening;  in  which  he  has  put 
it  oiK  of  all  doubt,  that  the  Chinese  and  English  tastes  are  totally 
dissimilar. 


100  gray's  letters. 

from  them,  nor  had  any  thing  but  nature  for 
our  modeL  It  is  not  forty  years  since  the 
art  was  born  among  us;"^  and  it  is  sure  that 
there  was  nothing  in  Europe  like  it ;  and  as 
sure,  we  then  had  no  information  on  this 
head  from  China  at  aiLj 

I  shall  rejoice  to  see  you  in  England, 
and  talk  over  these  and  many  other  mat- 
ters with  you  at  leisure.  Do  not  despair 
of  your  health,  because  you  have  not 
found  all  the  effects  you  had  promised 
yourself  from  a  finer  climate.  I  h«ve 
known  people  who  have  experienced  the 
same  thing,  and  yet,  at  their  return,  have 
lost  all  their  complaints  as  by  miracle. 

P.S.  I  have  answered  count  Algarotti's 
letter,  and  his  to  Mr.  Mason  I  conveyed 
to  him  ;  but  whether  he  has  received  his 
books,  I  have  not  yet  heard. 

Mr.  How,  on  receiving  the  foregoing  let- 
ter, communicated  the  objection  which  it 
contained  to  the  count ;  who,  admitting  the 

*  See  Mr.  Walpole's  history  of  this  art  at  the  end  of  the  last 
volume  of  his  Anecdotes  of  Painters. 

1 1  question  whether  this  }ye  not  saying  too  much.  Sir  William 
Temple's  account  of  the  Chinese  gardens  was  published  some 
years  before  this  period  ;  and  it  is  probable  thai  might  have  pi"0- 
motfd  our  endeavours,  not  indeed  uf  imitating  them,  but  of  imi- 
tating (what  ke  said  was  their  archetype)  Nature; 


gray's  letters.  101 

justness  of  it,  altered  the  passage,  as  ap- 
pears from  the  following  extract  of  the 
answer  which  he  sent  to  that  gentleman: 

"  Mi  spiace  solamente  che  quella  critica 
concernente  i  Giardini  Inglesi  non  la  abbia 
fatta  a  medesimo  ;  quasi  egli  dovesse  cre- 
dermi  piu  amico  della  ana  opinione  che 
della  verita.  Ecco,  come  ho  cangiato  qual 
luogo.  Dopo  le  parole  nel  lesser  la  Javola 
di  un  povma.  "  Simili  ai  Giardini  della 
Cina  sono  quelli  che  piantano  gl'  Inglesi 
dietro  al  medesimo  modello,  della  natiira." 
Qnanto  ella  ha  di  vago,  e  di  vario,  boschetti, 
collinette,  acque  vive,  praterie  con  dei  t«5m- 
pietti,  degli  obelischi,  ed  anche  di  belle 
rovine  che  spuntano  qua  e  la,  si  trova 
quivi  reunito  dal  gusto  dei  Kent,  e  dei 
Chambers,*  che  hanno  di  tanto  sorpassato 
il  le  Nautre,  tenuto  gia  il  maestro  dell' 
Architettura,  diro  cosi,  de  Giardini.  Dalle 
Ville  d'lnghilterra  e  sbandita  la  simmetria 
Francese,  i  piu  bei  siti  pajono  naturali,  il 
culto  e  misto  col  negletto,  e  il  disordine 
che  vi  regna  e  Teflfetto  dell'  arte  la  meglio 
ordinata." 

It  is  seldom  that  an  author  of  a  reputa- 
tion  so  established   (as   Mr.  How  truly    re- 

•  As  he  had  written  on  the  subject,  this  mistake  was  natural 
enough  in  count  Algaroitiv 


102  gray's  letters. 

marked,  when  he  sent  this  extract  to  Mr. 
Gray)  so  easily,  readily,  and  explicitly  gives 
up  his  own  opinion  to  that  of  another,  or 
even  to  conviction  itself;  nor  perhaps  would 
count  Algarotti  have  done  so,  had  he  not 
been  thoroughly  apprised  to  whose  cor- 
rection he  submitted. 


CXXI. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Sunday,  December  30,  1764. 

1  HAVE  received  the  Castle  of  Otranto,  and 
return  you  my  thanks  for  it  It  engages 
our  attention  iiere,*"  makes  some  of  us  cry 
a  little,  and  all  in  general  afraid  to  go  to  bed 
o'nights.  We  take  it  for  a  translation,  and 
should  believe  it  to  be  a  true  story,  if  it 
were  not  for  St.   Nicholas. 

When  your  pen  was  in  your  hand  you 
might  have  been  a  little  more  communica- 
tive :  for  thou2;h  disposed  enough  to  be- 
lieve the  opposition  rather  consumptive,  I 
am  entirely  ignorant  of  all  the  symptoms. 
Your  canonical  book   I  have    been    reading 

*At  Cambridge. 


(sray's  letters.  103 

with  {^reat  satisf.iction.  He  speaketh  as  one 
having  authority.  If  Englishmen  have  any 
feehn^i;  left,  inothinks  they  must  feel  now; 
and  if  the  ministry  have  any  f' eling  (whom 
nobody  will  suspect  of  insensibility)  they 
must  cut  oiT  the  author's  ears,  for  it  is  in 
all  the  forms  a  most  wicked  libel,  is  the 
old  man  and  the  lawyer  put  on,  or  is  it 
real?  or  has  some  real  lanyer  furnished  a 
good  part  of  the  materials,  and  another  per- 
son employed  them?  This  1  guess;  for  there 
is  an  uncouthness  of  diction  in  the  begin- 
ning, which  is  not  supported  throughout — 
though  it  now  and  then  occurs  again,  as  if 
the  writer  was  weary  of  supporting  the 
character  he  had  assumed,  when  the  sub- 
ject had  warmed  hi«m  beyond  dissimulation.* 
Rousseau's  letters!  1  am  reading  heavily, 
heavily!  He  jistities  himself,  till  he  con- 
vinces me  that  he  deserved  to  be  burnt,  at 
least  that  his  book  did.  I  am  not  got  through 
him,  and  you  never  will.     VoUaire  i  detest, 

•  Mr.  Gray  may  probably  allude  to  a  pamphlet,  called  "  A  letter 
concerning  libels,  warrants,  seizure  of  papers,  and  security  for  the 
peace  or  beiiaviour,  with  a  view  to  some  late  procttdings,  and  the 
defence  of  them  by  the  majority."'— Supposed  to  have  been  writ- 
ten  by  William  Graves,  esq.  a  master  in  chanoery,  uader  the 
inspection  of  the  late  lord  Camden.    B. 

t  The  Lettres  de  la  Montagnc. 


1Q4  gray's  letters. 

and  have  not  seen  his  book:  I  shall  in  good 
time.  You  surprise  me,  wlien  you  talk  of 
going*  in  February.  Pray,  does  all  ttie  mi- 
nority go  too?  I  hope  you  haVe  a  reason. 
Desperare  de  republica  is  a  deadly  sin  in 
politics. 

Adieu!  I  will  not  take  my  leave  of  yotj; 
for  (you  perceive)  this  letter  means  to  be^ 
another,  when  you  can  spare  a  little. 


CXXli. 

TO   MR.   PALGRAVE.t 

Mareh,  1765. 

My  instructions,  of  which  you  are  so  desi- 
j'ous,  are  two-fold:  the  first  part  relates  to 
what  is  past,  and  that  will  be  rather  dif- 
fuse: the  second,  to  what  is  to  come;  and 
ihat  we  shall  treat  more  succinctly,  and  with 
ull  due  brevity. 

First,  t^'hen  you  come  to  Paris,-  you  will 
not  fiil  to  visit  the  cloister  of  the  Char- 
treuse, where  Le  Sueur  (in  the   history. of 

*  To  Palis. 

t  ISIr.  Gray's  ooiTes]x»ndent  v  as  how  makiiig  liie  tour  of  France 
3.nd  Kiilv. 


gray's  letters.  105 

St.  Bruno)  has  almost  equalled  Raphael, 
Then  your  Gothic  inclinations  will  naturally 
lead  you  to  the  Sainte  Chapelle  built  by  St. 
Louis:  in  the  treasury  is  preserved  one  of 
the  noblest  gems  of  the  Augustan  age. 
When  you  take  a  trip  into  the  country, 
there  is  a  fine  old  chapel  at  Vincennes  with 
admirable  painted  windows;  and  at  Fontain- 
bleau,  the  remains  of  Francis  the  First's 
magnificence  might  give  you  some  pleasure. 
In  your  way  to  Lyons  you  will  take  notice 
of  the  view  over  the  Saone,  from  about 
Tournus  and  Macon.  Fail  not  to  walk  a 
few  miles  along  the  banks  of  the  Rhone, 
down  the  river.  I  would  certainly  make  a 
little  journey  to  the  Grand  Chartreuse,  up 
the  mou!itaijis:  at  your  return  out  of  Italy 
this,  will  have  little  effect.  At  Turin  you 
will  visit  the  Capuchins'  convent  just  with- 
out the  city,  and  the  Superga  at  no  great 
distance,  for  the  sake  of  the  views.  At 
Genoa  observe  the  Terreno  of  the  palace 
Brignoli,  as  a  model  of  an  apartment  ele- 
gantly disposed  in  a  hot  climate.  At  Parma 
vou  will  adore  the  great  Madonna  and  St. 
Jerom,  once  at  St.  Antonio  Abbate,  but  now 
(1  am  told)  in  the  Ducal  Palace.  In  the 
Madonna  della  Steccata  observe  the  Moses 
breaking  the  Tables,  a  chiaroscuro  figure  of 


106  gray's  letters. 

the  Parme^giano  at  too  great  a  height,  and 
ill  lighted,  but  immense.  At  the  Capuchins, 
the  great  pieta  of  Annib.  Caracci;  in  the 
villa  Ducale,  the  room  painted  by  Carlo 
Cignani;  and  the  last  works  of  Agosliiio 
Caracci  at  Modena.*     I  know  not  what  re- 

•  When  our  author  was  himself  in  Italy,  he  studied  with  much 
attention  the  di  iferent  mann  rs  of  the  old  masters.  I  find  a  paper 
written  at  the  time,  in  which  he  has  set  down  several  t:'.l)iects 
proper  for  painting,  which  he  had  never  seen  eneciitid,  and  has 
affixed  the  names  of  different  masters  to  each  pece,  to  show  which 
of  their  pe;icils  he  thought  would  h  ,ve  l>een  most  proper  to  treat 
it.  As  I  doiil)t  not  but  this  paper  will  be  an  acceptable  present  to 
the  Reynoldses  and  Wests  of  the  age,  1  shall  here  insert  it. 

"  An  Altar-Piece— Guido. 

The  top,  a  Heaven  ;  in  the  middle  at  a  distance,  the  Padre 
Eterno  indistinctly  seen,  and  lost,  as  it  were,  in  g:lory.  On  either 
hand.  Angels  of  all  degrees  in  attitudes  of  adoration  and  wonder. 
A  little  lower,  and  next  the  eye.  supported  on  the  wii-gs  of  Se- 
raphs, Christ  (the  principal  figure)  with  an  air  of  calm  and  serene 
majesty,  his  hand  extended,  as  commanding  the  elemeiits  to  tlieir 
sereral  places :  near  him  an  A;igel  of  superior  rank  biaring  the 
golden  comp'isses  (that  Milton  describes) ;  lieneath,  the  Chaos, 
like  a  dark  and  turbulent  ocean,  only  illuminated  by  the  Spirit^ 
who  is  brooding  over  it. 

A  small  picture.— Correggio. 

Eve  newly  created,  admiring  her  own  shadow  in  the  lake. 

The  famous  Venus  of  this  master,  late  in  the  possession  of 
Sic  William  Hamilton,  proves  how  judiciously  Mr.  Gray  fixed 
upon  his  pencil  for  the  execution  of  this  charmiug  subject. 


gray's  letters^  107 

mains   now,  the  flower  of  the  collection  is 
gone  to  Dresden.     Bulogna   is    too    vast    a 

A  nother . — Domen  ich  i  no . 

Medea  in  a  pensive  posture,  with  i-evenge  and  maternal  affee- 
tion  striving  in  her  visage ;  her  two  children  at  play,  sponing 
with  one  a^iother  before  her.  On  one  side  a  bust  of  Jason,  to 
which  they  bear  some  resemblance. 

A  Statue.— Michael  Angelo. 

Agave  in  the  moine-.  t  she  returns  to  her  senses  :  the  head  of  h«' 
son,  fallen  on  the  grouuil  from  h  r  hand. 
Vide  Ovid  Met.  li ..  lii.  1    731,  ire.  M. 

A  picture.— Salvator  Rosa. 

^neas  and  the  Sibyl  sacrificing  to  Pluto  by  torch-light  in  the 
wood,  the  assistants  in  a  fright.  The  day  beginning  lo  bitak  so  as 
dimly  to  show  tlie  mouth  of  the  caverp. 

Sigismonda  with  the  heart  of  Gniscardo  before  her.  I  hare 
seen  a  small  print  on  tliis  subject,  where  the  expression  is  admi. 
table,  said  to  be  graved  from  a  picture  of  Correggio. 

Afterwards,  when  he  had  seen  the  original  in  the  posses- 
sion of  the  late  Sir  Luke  Schaub,  he  always  expre-sed  the 
highest  admiration  of  it ;  though  we  see,  by  his  here  giving  it 
to  Salvator  Rosa,  he  thought  the  subject  too  horiid  to  be  treated 
by  Correggio  ;  and  indeed  I  btlieve  it  is  agreed  that  the  capita* 
pictuie   in  question  is  not  of  his  hand. 

Anotlier. — Albanu,  or  the   Parmeggiano. 

Iphigenia  asleep  by  the  fouiitain-side,  her  maids  about  her  .; 
Cyrooii  gazing  and  laughing. 

Thij  subject  has  bee.^  ofttn  treated  ;  o:ice  indeed  v.  ry  curiously 
by  Sir  Peter  Lely,  in  the  way  of  portrait,  wheu  his  sacred  Majesty 


108  gray's  letters. 

subject  for  me  to  treat;  the  palaces  and 
churches  are  open;  you  have  nothing  to  do 
but  to  see  them  all.  In  coming  down  the 
Apennine  you  will  see  (if  the  sun  shines) 
all  Tuscany  before  you.  And  so  I  have 
brought  you  to  Florence,  where  to  be  sure 
there  is  nothing  worth  seeing.  Secondly, 
1.  Vide,  quodcunque  videndum  est. 

Charles  the  Second  represented  Cjinon,  and  the  duchesi  of  Cleve- 
land and  Mrs,  Eleanor  Gwin  (in  as  indecent  attitudes  as  liis  roy- 
al taste  could  prescribe)  were  Iphigenia  and  her  attendants. 

Another.— Domenichino,  or  the  Caracci. 

Electra  with  the  urn,  in  which  she  imagined  were  her  brother's 
ashes,  lanieuting  over  them  ;  Orestes  smothering  his  concern. 

Another  .—Correggio. 

Ithuriel  and  Zephon  entering  the  bower  of  Adam  and  Eve  ;  they 
sleeping.    The, light  to  proceed  from  the  Angels. 

Another. — Nicholas  Poussin. 

Alcestis  dying  ;  her  children  weeping,  and  hanging  upon  her  robe  ; 
the  youngest  of  them,  a  little  boy,  crying  too,  but  appearing  rather 
to  do  so,  because  the  others  are  afflicted,  than  from  any  sense  of  the 
reason  of  their  sorrow  :  her  right  arm  should  be  round  this,  her  left 
extended  towards  the  vest,  as  recommending  them  to  licr  loitl'*  care ; 
he  fainting,  and  supported  by  the  attendants. 

Salvator  Rosa. 

Hannibal  passing  the  Alps ;  the  mountaineers  rolling  down  rocks 
upon  his  army  ;  elephants  turablingdown  the  precipices. 


grave's  letters.  109 

2.  Q,uodcunque  ego  non  vidi,  id  tu  vide. 

3.  Q,aodcunque  videris,  scribe  et  describe; 

memoriae  ne  tide. 

4.  Scribendo  nil    admirare;    et  cum  pictor 

non  sis,  verbis  omnia  depinge. 

5.  Tritam  viatornm  compitam  calca,  et  cum 

poteris  desere. 

6.  Erne,  quodcunque  emendam  est;  I  do  not 

mean  pictures,  medals,  gems,  draw- 
ings, &.C.  only;  but  clothes,  stockings, 
shoes,  handkerchiefs,  little  moveables; 
every  thing  you  may  want  all  your 
life  long:   but  have    a    care    of    the 
custom-house. 
Pray  present  my  most  respectful  compli- 
ments to  Mr.  Weddell.*     1  conclude  when 
the  winter    is    over,    and    you    have    seen 
Rome   and  Naples,  you  will    strike    out  of 
the  beaten  path  of  English    travellers,  and 

Another. — Domeniehino. 

Arria  giving  Claudius's  order  to  Psetus,  and  stabbing  herself  at 
the  same  time. 

N.  Poussin,  or  Le  Sueur. 

Virginias  murdering  his  daughter  ;  Appjus,  at  a  distance,  start- 
ing up  from  his  ti-ibunal ;  the  people  amazed,  but  few  of  them 
seeiug  the  action  itself." 

*  \yilllaua  Weddell,  esq.  of  Newby  in  Yorkshire, 


110  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

see  a  little  of  the  country,  throw  your- 
selves into  the  bosom  of  the  Apennine, 
survey  the  horrid  lake  of  Amsanctus  (look 
in  Chiver's  Italy),  catch  the  breezes  on 
the  coast  of  Taranto  and  Salerno,  expatiate 
to  the  very  toe  of  the  continent,  perhaps 
strike  over  the  Faro  of  Messina,  and  hav- 
ing measured  the  gigantic  columns  of  Gir- 
genti,  and  the  tremendous  caverns  of  Syra- 
cusa,  refresh  yourselves  amidst  the  fragrant 
vale  of  Euna.     Oh!  che  bel  riposo!    Addio. 


CXXIII. 

TO    MR.    BEATTIE. 

Glames-Castle,  Sept.  8,  1765. 

A  LITTLE  journey  I  have  been  niaking  to 
Arbroath  has  been  the  cause  that  I  did  not 
answer  your  very  obliging  letter  so  soon  as 
I  ought  to  have  done.  A  man  of  merit,  that 
honours  me  with  his  esteem,  and  has  the 
frankness  to  tell  me  po,  doubtless  can  need 
no  excuses:  his  apology  is  made,  and  we 
are  already  acquainted,  however  distant  from 
each  other. 

I  fear  I  cannot  (as  1  would  wish)  do  my- 
self the  pleasure  of  waiting  on  you  at  Aber- 


gray's  letters.  Ill 

deen,  being  under  an  engagement  to  go  to- 
moiTovv  to  Taymoiitb,  and,  if  the  weather 
will  allow  it,  to  the  Blair  of  Athol:  this  will 
take  up  four  or  five  days,  and  at  my  return 
the  approach  of  winter  will  scarce  permit 
me  to  think  of  any  farther  expeditions  north- 
wards. My  stay  here  will,  however,  be  a 
fortnight  or  three  weeks  longer;  and  if  in 
that  time  any  business  or  invitation  should 
call  you  this  way,  lord  Strathmore  gives  me 
commission  to  say,  he  shall  be  extremely 
glad  to  see  you  at  Glames;  and  doubt  not  it 
will  be  a  particular  satisfaction  to  me  to 
receive  and  thank  you  in  person  for  the 
favourable  sentiments  you  have  entertained 
of  me,  and  the  civilities  with  which  you  have 
honoured  me. 


CXXIV. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Glames-Cartle,  Sept.  14.  1765. 

I  DEFERRED  writing  to  you  till  I  tiad  seen  a 
little  more  of  this  country  than  yourself 
had  seen;  and  now  being  just  returned  from 
an  excursion,  which  I  and  major  Lyon  have 
been  making  into  the  Highlands,  1  sit  down 


112  gray's  letters. 

to  give  you  an  account  of  it.  But  first  I 
must  return  to  my  journey  hither,  on  which 
I  shall  be  very  short;  partly  because  you 
know  the  way  as  far  as  Edinburgh,  and  part- 
ly that  there  was  not  a  great  deal  worth  re- 
marking. The  first  night  we  passed  at 
Tweedmouth  (77  miles);  the  next  at  Edin- 
burgh (53  miles);  where  lord  Strathmore 
left  the  major  and  me,  to  go  to  Lennox-Love, 
(lord  Blantyre's)  where  his  aunt  lives:  so 
that  afternoon  and  all  next  day  I  had  leisure 
to  visit  the  castle,  Holyrood-house,  Heriot's 
hospital,  Arthur's  seat,  kc.  and  am  not  sorry 
to  have  seen  tbat  most  picturesque  (at  a  dis- 
tance), and  nastiest  (when  near)  of  all  capital 
cities.  I  supped  with  Dr.  Robertson  and 
other  literati,  and  the  next  morning  lord 
Strathmore  came  for  us.  We  crossed  at  the 
Queen's  Ferry  in  a  four-oared  yawl  without 
a  sail,  and  were  tossed  about  rather  more 
than  I  should  wisii  to  hazard  again;  lay  at 
Perth,  a  large  Scotch  town  with  much  wood 
about  it,  on  the  banks  of  the  Tay,  a  very 
noble  river;  next  morning  ferried  over  it, 
and  came  by  dinner-time  to  Glames;  being 
(from  Edinburgh)  67  miles,'  which  makes  in 
all   (from  Helton)    197  miles.     The  castle* 

*  This  is  said  to  be  the  rery  castle  iu  which  Duncan  was  mur- 
dered by  Macbetb. 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  llo 

stands  in  Strathmore  (i.  e.  the  Great  Valley) 
which  winds  about  from  Stonehaven  on  the 
east  coast  of  Kincardineshire,  obliquely,  as 
f?tr  as  Stirling,  near  100  miles  in  length,  and 
from  seven  to  ten  miles  in  breadth,  cultivat- 
ed every  where  to  the  foot  of  the  hills,  on 
either  hand,  with  oats  or  here,  a  species  of 
barley,  except  where  the  soil  is  mere  peat- 
earth,  (black  as  a  coal)  or  barren  sand  cov- 
ered only  with  broom  and  heath,  or  a  short 
grass  tit  for  sheep.  Here  and  there  appear, 
just  above  ground,  the  huts  of  the  inhabi- 
tants, which  they  call  towns,  built  of,  and 
covered  with,  turf;  and  among  them,  at 
great  distances,  the  gentlemen's  houses,  with 
enclosures,  and  a  fiew  trees  round  them. 

Amidst  these  the  castle  of  Glames  distin- 
guishes itself,  the  middle  part  of  it  rising 
proudly  out  of  what  seems  a  great  and  thick 
wood  of  tall  trees,  with  a  cluster  of  hanging 
towers  on  the  top.  You  descend  to  it  gra- 
dually from  the  south,  through  a  double  and 
triple  avenue  of  Scotch  firs  60  or  70  feet 
high,  under  three  gateways.  This  approach 
is  a  full  mile  long  ;  and  when  you  have 
passed  the  second  gate,  tlie  tirs  change  to 
limes,  and  another  oblique  avenue  goes  off 
on  either  hand  towards  the  offices.  These, 
as  well  as  all  the  enclosures  that  surround 
VOL.  IV.  24 


114  gray's  letters. 

the  house,  are  bordered  with  three  or  four 
ranks  of  sycamores,  ashes,  and  white  poplars 
of  the  noblest  height,  and  from  70  to  100 
years  old.  Other  alleys  there  are,  that  go 
off  at  right  angles  with  the  long  one;  small 
groves,  a;id  walled  gardens,  of  earl  Patrick's 
planting,  full  of  broad-leaved  elms,  oaks, 
birch,  black  cherry-trees,  laburnums,  &c. 
all  of  great  stature  and  size,  which  have  not 
till  this  v>^eek  begun  to  show  the  least  sense 
of  morning  frosts.  The  third  gate  delivers 
you  into  a  court  with  a  broad  pavement, 
and  grassplats  adorned  with  statues  of  the 
four  Stuart  kings,  bordered  with  old  silver 
iirs  and  yew-trees,  alternately,  and  opening 
with  an  iron  palisade  on  either  side  to  two 
square  old  fashioned  parterres  surrounded 
by  stone  fruit-walls.  The  house,  from  the 
height  of  it,  the  greatness  of  its  mass,  the 
many  towers  atop,  and  the  spread  of  its 
wings,  has  really  a  very  singular  and  strik- 
ing appearance,  like  nothing  I  ever  saw. 
You  will  comprehend  something  of  its  shape 
from  the  plan  of  the  second  floor,  which  I 
enclose.  The  wings  are  about  50  feet  high; 
the  body  (which  is  the  old  castle,  with  walls 
10  feet  thick)  is  near  100.  From  the  leads 
I  see  to  the  south  of  me  (just  at  the  end  of 
the  avenue)  the  little  town    of  Glames,  the 


gray's  letters.  115 

houses  built  of  stone,  and  slated,  with  a  neat 
kirk  and  small  square  tower  (a  rarity  in  this 
region.)  Just  beyond  it  rises  a  beautiful 
round  hill,  and  another  ridge  of  a  longer 
forna  adjacent  to  it,  both  covered  with  woods 
of  tall  tir.  Beyond  them,  peep  over  the 
black  hills  of  Sid-law,  over  which  winds  the 
road  to  Dundee.  To  the  north,  within 
about  seven  miles  of  me,  begin  to  rise  the 
Grampians,  hill  above  hill,  on  whose  tops 
three  weeks  ago  I  could  plainly  see  some 
traces  of  the  snow  that  fell  in  May  last.  To 
the  east,  winds  a  way  to  the  Strath,  such  as 
I  have  before  described  it,  among  the  hills, 
which  sink  lower  and  lower  as  they  ap- 
proach the  sea.  To  the  west,  the  same 
valley  (not  plain,  but  broken,  unequal 
ground)  runs  on  for  above  20  miles  in  view: 
there  I  see  the  crags  above  Dunkeld;  there 
Beni-Gloe  and  Beni-More  rise  above  the 
clouds;  and  there  is  that  She-khallian,  that 
spires  into  a  cone  above  them  all,  and  lies 
at  least  45  miles  (in  a  direct  line)  from  this 
place. 

Lord  Strathmore,  who  is  the  greatest  far- 
mer in  this  neighbourhood,  is  from  break  of 
day  to  dark  night  among  his  husbandmen 
and  labourers:  he  has  near  2000  acres  of 
land  in  his  own  hands,  and  is  at  present  em- 


116  gray's  letters. 

ployed  in  building  a  low  wall  of  four  miles 
long,  and  in  widening  the  bed  of  the  little 
river  Deane,  which  runs  to  south  and  south- 
east of  the  house,  from  about  twenty  to  fifty 
feet  wide,  both  to  prevent  inundations,  and 
to  drain  the  lake  of  Forfar.  This  work  will 
be  two  years  more  in  completing,  and  must 
be  three  miles  in  length.  All  the  Highlan- 
ders that  can  be  got  are  employed  in  it; 
many  of  them  know  no  English,  and  1  hear 
them  singing  Erse  songs  all  day  long.  The 
price  of  labour  is  eight-pence  a  day;  but  to 
such  as  will  join  together,  and  engage  to  per- 
form a  certain  portion  in  a  limited  time,  two 
shillings. 

I  must  say  that  all  his  labours  seem  to 
prosper;  and  my  lord  has  casually  found  in 
digging  such  quantities  of  shell-marl,  as  not 
only  fertilize  his  own  grounds,  but  are  dis- 
posed of  at  a  good  price  to  all  his  neighbours. 
In  his  nurseries  are  thousands  of  oaks, 
beech,  larches,  horse-chesnuts,  spruce-firs, 
&c.  thick  as  they  can  stand,  and  whose  only 
fault  is,  that  they  are  grown  tall  and  vigorous 
before  he  has  determined  where  to  plant 
them  out;  the  most  advantageous  spot  we 
have  for  beauty  lies  west  of  the  house, 
where  (when  the  stone-walls  of  the  meadows 
are  taken  away)  the  grounds,  naturally  un- 


gray's  letters.  117 

equal,  vvili  have  a  very  park-like  appear- 
ance: they  are  already  fall  of  trees,  which 
need  only  thinning  here  and  there  to  break 
the  regularity  of  their  trout-stream  which 
joins  the  river  Deane  hard  by.  Pursuing 
the  course  of  this  brook  upwards,  you  come 
to  a  narrow  sequestered  valley  sheltered 
from  all  winds,  through  which  it  runs  mur- 
muring among  great  stones;  on  one  hand  the 
ground  gently  rises  into  a  hill,  on  the  other 
are  the  rocky  banks  of  the  rivulet  almost 
perpendicular,  yet  covered  with  sycfimore, 
ash,  and  fir,  that  (though  it  seems  to  have 
no  place  or  soil  to  grow  in)  yet  has  risen  to 
a  good  height,  and  forms  a  thick  shade:  you 
may  continue  along  this  gill,  and  passing  by 
one  end  of  the  village  and  its  church  for 
half  a  mile,  it  leads  to  an  opening  between 
the  two  hills  covered  with  fir-woods,  that  I 
mentioned  above,  through  which  the  stream 
makes  it  way,  and  forms  a  cascade  often  or 
twelve  feet  over  broken  rocks.  A  very 
little  art  is  necessary  to  make  all  this  a 
beautiful  scene.  The  weather,  till  the  last 
week,  has  been  in  general  very  fine  and 
warm;  we  have  had  no  fires  till  now,  and 
often  have  sat  with  the  window^s  open  an 
hour  after  sun  set:  now  and  then  a  shower 
has  come,  and  sometimes  sudden  gusts   of 


118  gray's  letters. 

wind  descend  from  the  mountains,  that  finish 
as  suddenly  as  they  arose;  butto-day  it  blows 
a  hurricane.  Upon  the  whole,  I  have  been 
exceeding  lucky  in  my  weather,  and  par- 
ticularly in  my  Highland  expedition  of  five 
days. 

We  set  out  then  the  11th  of  September, 
and  continuing  along  the  Strath  to  the  west, 
passed  through  Megill,  (where  is  the  tomb 
of  Queen  Wanders,  that  was  riven  to  dethe  hy 
stancd  horses  for  nae  gude  that  she  did;  so  the 
women  there  told  me,  I  assure  you)  through 
Cowper  of  Angus;  over  the  river  11a;  then 
over  a  wide  and  dismal  heath,  fit  for  an 
assembly  of  witches,  till  we  came  to  a  string 
of  four  small  lakes  in  a  valley,  whose  deep 
blue  waters  and  green  margin,  with  a  gentle- 
man's house  or  two  seated  on  them  in  little 
groves,  contrasted  with  the  black  desert  in 
vyhich  they  were  enchased.  The  ground 
now  grew  unequal;  the  hills,  more  rocky, 
seemed  to  close  in  upon  us,  till  the  road 
came  to  the  brow  of  a  steep  descent,  and 
(the  sun  then  setting)  between  two  woods  of 
oak  w^e  saw  far  below  us  the  river  Tay 
come  sweeping  along  at  the  bottom  of  a  pre- 
cipice, at  least  150  feet  deep,  clear  as  glass, 
full  to  the  brim,  and  very  rapid  in  its  course; 
it  seemed  to  issue  out  of  woods  thick  and 


gray's  letters.  119 

tall,  that  rose  on  either  hand,  and  were 
over-hung  by  broken  rocky  crags  of  vast 
height;  above  them,  to  the  west,  the  tops 
of  higher  mountains  appeared,  on  which  the 
evening  clouds  reposed.  Down  by  the  side 
of  the  river,  under  the  thickest  shades,  is 
seated  the  town  of  Dunkeld;  in  the  midst  of 
it  stands  a  ruined  cathedral,  the  towers  and 
shell  of  the  building  still  entire:  a  little  be- 
yond it,  a  large  house  of  the  duke  of  Athol, 
with  its  offices  and  gardens,  extends  a  mile 
beyond  the  town;  and  as  his  grounds  were 
interrupted  by  the  streets  and  roads,  he  has 
f^ung  arches  of  communication  across  them, 
that  add  to  the  scenery  of  the  place,  which 
of  itself  is  built  of  good  white  stone,  and 
handsomely  slated;  so  that  no  one  would 
take  it  for  a  Scotch  town  till  they  come  into 
it.  Here  we  passed  the  night;  if  I  told  you 
how,  you  would  bless  yourself. 

Next  day  we  set  forward  to  Tay mouth, 
27  miles  farther  west  ;  the  road  winding 
through  beautiful  woods,  with  the  Tay  almost 
always  in  full  vie'V  to  the  right,  being  here 
from  3  to  400  feet  over.  The  Strath-Tay, 
from  a  mile  to  three  miles  or  more  wide, 
covered  with  corn,  and  spotted  with  groups 
of  people  then  in  the  midst  of  their  har- 
vest ;  on  either  hand  a   vast  chain  of  rocky 


ISO  GRAV'S    LETTERS, 

mountains  that  changed  their  face  and  open- 
ed something- new  every  hundred  yards,  as 
the  way  turned,  or  th^  clouds  passed: 
in  short,  altogether  it  was  one  of  the  most 
pleasing  days  I  have  passed  these  many 
years,  and  at  every  step  I  wished  for  you. 
At  the  close  of  day  we  came  to  Balloch^^  so 
the  place  was  called  ;  hut  now  Tai/mctdh^ 
improperly  enough  ;  for  here  it  is  that  the 
liver  issues  out  of  Loch-Tay,  a  glorious 
lake  15  miles  long  and  one  mile  and  a  half 
broad,  surrounded  with  prodigious  moun- 
tains ;  there  on  its  north-eastern  brink,  im- 
pending over  it,  is  the  vast  hill  of  Lawers; 
10  the  east  is  that  enormous  creature,  She- 
lihallian  (i.  e.  the  maiden's  pap)  s])iring 
above  the  clouds:  directly  west,  bej'ond  the 
end  of  the  lake,  Bern-more  ;  the  great  moun- 
tain rises  to  a  most  awful  height,  and  looks 
down  on  the  tomb  of  Fingal.  Lord  Breadal- 
bane*9  policji/  (so  they  call  here  all  such 
ground  as  is  laid  out  for  pleasure)  takes  in 
about  2000  acres,  of  which  his  house,  offi- 
i^es,  and  a  deer-park,  about  three  miles 
round,  occupy  the  plain  or  bottom,  which 
is  little  above  a  mile  in  breadth;  through  it 
winds  the  Tay,  which,  by  means  of  a  bridge, 

*  Mr.  Pennant,  in  bis  tour  in  Scotland,  explains  this  woid  "  the 
Meutb  of  the  Loch." 


6Ray's  letters.  121 

I  found  here  to  be  156  feet  over:  his  planta- 
tions and  woods  rise  with  the  ground^  on 
either  side  the  vale,  to  the  very  summit  of 
the  enormous  crags  that  overhang  it :  along 
them,  on  the  mountain's  *ide,  runs  a  terras 
a  mile  and  a  half  long,  that  overlooks  the 
course  of  the  river.  From  several  seats 
and  temples  perched  on  particular  rocky 
eminences,  you  command  the  lake  for  many 
miles  in  length,  which  turns  like  some  huge 
river,  and  loses  itself  among  the  mountains 
that  surround  it;  at  its  eastern  extremity, 
where  the  river  issues  out  of  it,  on  a  penin- 
sula my  lord  has  built  a  neat  little  town  and 
church  with  a  high  square  tower;  and  just 
before  it  lies  a  small  round  island  in  the 
lake,  covered  with  trees,  amongst  which  are 
the  ruins  of  some  little  religious  house. 

Trees,  by  the  way,  grow  here  to  great 
size  and  beauty.  I  saw  four  old  chesnuts 
i-n  the  road,  as  you  enter  the  park,  of  vast 
bulk  and  height  ;  one  beech  tree  I  measur- 
ed that  was  16  feet  7  inches  in  the  girth, 
and,  I  guess,  near  80  feet  in  height.  The 
gardener  presented  us  with  peaches,  necta- 
rines, and  plumbs  from  the  stone-walls  of 
the  kitchen-garden  (for  there  are  no  brick 
nor  hot  walls);  the  peaches  were  good,  the 
rest  well  tasted,  but  scarce  ripe;   we  had 


I3ii2  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

also  goWen  pippins  from  an  espalier,  not 
ripe,  and  a  melon  very  well  flavoured  and 
fit  to  cut  :  of  the  house  I  have  little  to  say  ; 
it  is  a  very  good  nobleman's  house,  hand- 
somely furnished  and  well  kept,  very  com- 
fortable to  inhabit,  but  not  worth  going  far 
to  see.  Of  the  earl's  taste  I  have  not  much 
more  to  say;  it  is  one  of  those  noble  situa- 
tions that  man  cannot  spoil:  it  is  however 
certain,  that  he  has  built  an  inn  and  a  town 
just  where  his  principal  walks  should  have 
been,  and  in  the  most  wonderful  spot  of 
ground  that  perhaps  belongs  to  him.  In 
this  inn  however  we  lay  ;  and  next  day,  re- 
turning down  the  river  four  miles,  we  pass- 
ed it  over  a  fine  bridge,  built  at  the  expense 
of  the  government,  and  continued  our  way 
to  LogieRait,  just  below  which,  in  a  most 
charming  scene,  the  Tummcl^  which  is  here 
the  larger  river  of  the  two,  falls  into  the 
Tay.  We  ferried  over  tlie  Tummel  iji 
order  to  get  into  Marshal  Wade's  road, 
which  leads  from  Dunkeld  to  Inverness,  and 
continued  our  way  along  it  toward  the  north: 
the  road  is  excellent,  but  dangerous  enough 
in  conscience;  the  river  often  running  di- 
rectly under  us  at  the  bottom  of  a  precipice 
200  feet  deep,  sometimes  masked  indeed  by 
wood  that  finds  means  to  crow  where  I  could 


gray's  letters„  123 

not  stand,  but  very  often  quite  naked  and 
without  any  defence:  in  such  places  we 
walked  for  miles  together,  partly  for  fear, 
and  partly  to  admire  the  beauty  of  the  coun- 
try, which  the  beauty  of  the  weather  set 
off  to  the  greatest  advantage:  as  evening 
came  on,  we  approached  the  pass  of  Gilli- 
krankie,  where,  in  the  year  1745,  the  Hes- 
sians, with  their  prince  at  their  head,  stop- 
ped short,  and  refused  to  march  a  foot 
farther. 

restibuhim  ante  ipsum,  prhnisque  in  fauci- 
hus  Orel,  stands  the  solitary  mansion  of  Mr. 
Robertson,  of  Fascley;  close  by  it  rises  a 
hill  covered  with  o^k,  with  grotesque  mas- 
ses of  rock  staring  from  among  their  trunks, 
like  the  sullen  countenances  ofFingal  and 
all  his  family,  frowning  on  the  little  mortals 
of  modern  days:  from  between  this  hill  and 
the  adjacent  mountains,  pent  in  a  narrow 
channel,  comes  roaring  out  the  river  Tum- 
mel,  and  falls  headlong  down  involved  in 
white  foam  which  rises  into  a  mist  all  round 
it:  but  my  paper  is  deficient,  and  I  must 
say  nothing  of  the  pass  itself,  the  black  river 
Garry,  the  Blair  of  Athol,  mount  Beni-Gloe, 
my  return  by  another  road  to  Dunkeld,  the 
Hermitage,  the  Slra-Bram,  and  the  Rum- 
bling Brig;  in  short,  since  I  saw  the  x^lps,  I 


124  gray's  letters. 

have  seen  nothing  sublime  till  now.  In 
about  a  week  I  shall  set  forward,  by  the 
Stirling  road,  on  my  return  all  alone.  Pray 
for  me  till  I  see  you,  for  I  dread  Edinburgh 
and  the  itch,  and  expect  to  find  very  little 
in  my  way  worth  the  perils  I  am  to  endure. 


cxxv 


TO    MR.    BEATTIE. 

Glames  Castle,  Oct.  2. 3765. 

1  MUST  beg  you  would  present  my  most 
grateful  acknowledgments  to  your  society 
for  the  public  mark  of  their  esteem,  which 
you  say  they  are  disposed  to  confer  on  me.* 
I  embrace,  with  so  deep  and  just  a  sense 
of  their  goodness,  the  substance  of  that 
honour  they  do  me,  that  I  hope  it  may  plead 
my  pardon  with  them  if  I  do  not  accept  the 
form.  I  have  been,  sir,  for  several  years  a 
member  of  the  university  of  Cambridge,  and 
formerly  ^when  I  had  some  thoughts  of  the 
profession)  took  a  bachelor  of  laws'  degree 

*  The  Marischal  College  of  Abeitken  had  desired  to  know 
whether  it  would  he  agi-eeable  to  ^Ir.  Gray  to  receive  from  them 
the  degree  of  doctor  of  laws.  Mr.  afterwards  Dr.  Beattie  wrote  to 
htm  on  the  subject,  and  this  is  the  answer. 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  125 

there;  since  that  time,  though  long  qualified 
by  my  standing,  1  have  always  neglected  to 
tinish  my  course,  and  claim  my  doctor's  de- 
gree: judge,  therefore,  whether  it  will  not 
look  like  a  slight,  and  some  sort  of  contempt, 
if  i  receive  the  same  degree  from  a  sister 
university.  I  certainly  would  avoid  giving 
any  offence  to  a  set  of  men,  among  whom  I 
have  passed  so  many  easy,  and  I  may  say, 
happy  hours  of  my  life;  yet  shall  ever  re- 
tain in  my  memory  the  obligations  you  have 
laid  me  under,  and  be  proud  of  my  connec- 
tion with  the  university  of  Aberdeen. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  me  to  find  that  you  are 
not  offended  with  the  liberties  I  took  when 
you  were  at  Glames;  you  took  me  too  lite- 
rally, if  you  thought  I  meant  in  the  least  to 
discourage  you  in  your  pursuit  of  poetry:  all 
I  intended  to  say  was,  that  if  either  vanity 
(that  is,  a  general  and  undistinguishing  de- 
sire of  applause),  or  interest,  or  ambition 
has  any  place  in  the  breast  of  a  poet,  he 
stands  a  great  chance  in  these  our  days  of 
being  severely  disappointed;  and  yet,  after 
all  these  passions  are  suppressed,  there  ma^' 
remain  in  the  mind  of  one,  "  ingenti  percul- 
sus  amore,''  (and  such  I  take  you  to  be) 
incitements  of  a  better  sort,  strong  enough 
to  make  him  write  verse  all  his  life,   both 


126  gray's  letters. 

for  his  own  pleasure  and  that  of  all  pos- 
terity. 

1  am  sorry  for  the  trouble  you  have  had 
to  gratify  my  curiosity  and  love  of  supersti- 
tion;* yet  I  heartily  thank  you.  On  Mon- 
day, sir,  I  set  forward  on  my  way  to  Eng- 
land; Vv^here  if  I  can  be  of  any  little  nse  to 
you,  or  should  ever  have  the  good  for- 
tune to  see  you,  it  will  be  a  .particular 
satisfaction  to  me.  Lord  Strathniore^and  the 
family  here  desire  me  to  make  their  compli- 
ments to  you. 

P.  S.  Remember  Dryden,  and  be  blind 
to  all  his  faults. t 

*  Mr  Gray,  when  in  Scotland,  had  been  very  inquisitive  after 
the  popular  superstitions  of  the  country  ;  his  correspondent  sent 
him  two  books  on  this  subject,  foolish  ones  indeed,  as  might  be  ex* 
pected,  but  the  best  that  could  be  had  ;  a  History  of  Second-sight, 
and  a  History  of  Witches. 

t  Mr.  Beattie,  it  seems,  in  their  late  inteniew,  had  expressed 
himself  with  less  admiration  of  Dryden  than  Mr.  Gray  thought 
his  due.  He  told  him  in  reply,  ''  that  if  there  was  any  excel- 
lence in  his  own  numbers,  he  had  learned  it  wholly  from  that 
great  poet ;  and  pressed  him  with  gi-eat  earnestness  to  study  him, 
as  his  choice  of  words  and  Tersification  were  singularly  happy  aj>rl 
lisinnonious." 


gray's  letters.  127 


CXXVI. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Cambridge,  December  13,  176S. 

I  AM  very  much  obliged  to  you.  for  the  de- 
tail you  enter  into  on  the  subject  of  your 
own  health:  in  this  you  cannot  be  too  cir- 
cumstantial for  me,  who  had  received  no 
account  of  you,  but  at  second-hand — such  as, 
that  you  were  dangerously  ill,  and  there- 
fore went  to  France;  thnt  you  meant  to  try 
a  better  climate,  and  therefore  stayed  at 
Paris:  that  you  had  relapsed,  and  were  con- 
fined to  your  bed,  and  extremely  in  vogue, 
and  supped  in  the  best  company,  and  were 
at  all  public  diversions.  I  rejoice  to  find 
(improbable  as  it  seemed)  that  all  the  won- 
derful part  of  this  is  strictly  true,  and  that 
the  serious  part  has  been  a  little  exaggerat- 
ed. This  latter  I  conclude  not  so  much 
from  your  own  account  of  yourself,  as  from 
the  spirits  in  which  I  see  you  write;  and 
long  may  they  continue  to  support  you!  I 
mean  in  a  reasonable  degree  of  elevation: 
but  if  (take  notice)  they  are  so  volatile,  so 
'  flippant,  as  to  suggest  any  of  those  doctrines 
of  health,  which  you  preach   with  all  the 


128  gray's  letters. 

zeal  of  a  French  atheist;  at  least,  it'  they 
really  do  influence  your  practice;  I  utterly 
renounce  them  and  all  their  works.  They 
are  evil  spiritfi^  and  will  lead  you  to  destruc- 
tion.— You  have  long  built  your  hopgs  on 
temperance,  you  say,  and  hardiness.  On 
the  first  point  we  are  agreed.  The  second 
has  totall}*  disappointed  you,  and  therefore 
you  will  persist  in  it;  by  all  means.  But 
then  be  sure  to  persist  too  in  being  young, 
in  stopping  the  course  of  time,  and  making 
the  shadow  return  back  upon  your  sun-dial. 
If  you  find  this  not  so  easy,  acquiesce  with  a 
good  grace  in  my  anilities^  put  on  your  un- 
der-stockings  of  yarn  or  woolen,  even  in  the 
nighttime.  Don't  provoke  me!  or  1  shall 
order  you  two  night-caps  (vvhich  by  the  way 
would  do  your  eyes  good),  and  put  a  little 
of  any  French  lioueur  into  your  water: 
they  are  nothing  but  brandy  and  sugar,  and 
among  their  various  flavours  some  of  them 
may  surely  be  palatable  enough.  The  pain 
in  your  feet  /  can  bear;  but  I  shudder  at  the 
sickness  in  your  stomach,  and  the  weakness, 
that  still  continues.  1  conjure  you,  as  you 
love  yourself;  1  conjure  you  by  Strawberry, 
not  to  trifle  with  these  edge-tools.  There 
is  no  cure  for  the  gout,  when  in  the  stomach, 
but  to  throw  it  into  the  limbs.     There  is  no 


GRAY'S  LETTERS.  129 

I'viiief  for  the  gout  in  the  limbs,  but  in  gentle 
warnmth  and  gradual  perspiration. 

I  was  much  entertained  with  3  our  account 
ot  oar  neighbours.  As  an  Englishman  and 
all  Antigallican,  I  rejoice  at  their  dullness 
and  their  nastiness:  though  I  fear  we  shall 
come  to  imitate  them  in  both.  Their  athe- 
ism is  a  little  too  much,  too  shocking  to  re- 
joice at.  I  have  been  long  sick  at  it  in  their 
authors,  and  hated  them  for  it:  but  1  pit^' 
their  poor  innocent  people  of  fijshion.  They 
were  bad  enough,  wiien  they  believed  every 
thing! 

I  have  searched  where  you  directed  me; 
which  I  could  not  do  sooner,  as  I  was  at 
London  when  I  received  j^our  letter,  and 
could  not  easily  find  her  grace's  works. 
Here  they  abound  in  every  library.  The 
print  you  ask  after  is  the  frontispiece  to 
Natur£*s  pictures  drawn  by  Fancy^s  pencil. 
But  lest  there  should  be  any  mistake,  I  must 
tell  you,  the  flimily  are  not  at  dinner,  but 
sitting  round  a  rousing  fire  and  telling  stories. 
The  room  is  just  such  a  one  as  we  lived  in 
at  Rheims:  1  mean  as  to  the  glazing  and 
ceiling.  The  chimney  is  supported  by 
Caryatides:  over  the  mantel  piece  the  arms 
of  the  faniily.  The  duke  and  duchess  are 
crowned  with  laurel      A  servant  stands  be* 

VOL.  iv.  25 


130  gray's  letters. 

hind  him,  holding  a  hat  and  feather.  Art- 
other  is  shutting  a  window.  Diepenbecke 
delin.  et  (I  think)  S.  Clouwe  sculps.  It  is 
a  very  pretty  and  curious  print,  and  I  thank 
you  for  the  sight  of  it.  If  it  ever  was  a 
picture,  what  a  picture  to  have! 

I  must  tell  you,  that  upon  cleaning  an  old 
picture  here  at  St.  John's  Lodge,  which  I 
always  took  for  a  Holbein;  on  a  ring,  which 
the  figure  wears,  they  have  found  H.  H. 
it  has  been  always  called  B.  V.  Fisher;  but 
is  plainly  a  layman,  and  probably  sir  Anthony 
Denny,  who  was  a  benefactor  to  the  col- 
lege. 

What  is  come  of  your  Sevigne-curiosity? 
I  should  be  glad  of  a  line  now  and  then, 
when  you  have  leisure.  I  wish  you  well, 
and  am  ever 

Yours. 


CXXVII. 

TO  DR.  WHARTON. 

Pembroke-Hall,  March  5,  1766. 

I  AM  amazed  at  myself  when  1  think  1  have 
never  wrote  to  you;  to  be  sure  it  is  the  sin 
of  witchcraft,  or  something  worse.     Had  I 


gray's  letters.  131 

been  married,  like  Mason,  some  excuse 
might  be  made  for  it;  who  (for  the  first  time 
since  that  great  event)  has  just  thought  fit  to 
tell  me  that  he  never  passed  so  happy  a 
winter  as  the  last,  and  this  in  spite  of  his 
anxieties,  which  he  says  might  even  make  a 
part  of  his  happiness;  for  his  wife  is  by  no 
means  in  health;  she  has  a  constant  cough: 
yet  he  is  assured  her  lungs  are  not  affected, 
and  that  it  is  nothing  of  the  consumptive 
kind.  As  to  me,  I  have  been  neither  happy 
nor  miserable;  but  in  a  gentle  stupefaction 
of  mind,  and  very  tolerable  health  of  body 
hitherto.  If  they  last,  I  shall  not  much 
complain.  The  accounts  one  has  lately  had 
from  ail  parts,  make  me  suppose  you  buried 
in  the  snow,  like  the  old  queen  of  Denmark. 
— As  soon  as  you  are  dug  out,  I  shall  rejoice 
to  hear  your  voice  from  the  battlements  of 
Old  Park, 

Every  thing  is  politics.  There  are  no 
literary  productions  worth  your  notice,  at 
least  of  our  country. — The  French  have 
finished  their  great  Encyclopedia  in  17 
volumes;  but  there  are  many  flims}^  articles 
very  hastily  treated,  and  great  incorrectness 
of  the  press.  There  are  now  13  volumes 
of  Buffon's  Natural  History;  and  he  is  not 
come  to  the  monkies  yet,  who  are  a  nume^' 


13;^  okay's  letters. 

rous  people.  The  Life  of  Petrarch  has 
entertained  me;  it  is  not  tvell  written,  but 
very  curious,  and  laid  together  from  his 
own  letters,  and  the  original  writings  of  the 
fourteenth  century;  so  that  he  takes  in 
much  of  the  history  of  those  obscure  times, 
and  the  characters  of  many  remarkable  per- 
sons. There  are  t»vo  volumes  quarto;  and 
another,  unpublished  yet,  will  complete  it. 

Mr.  Walpole  writes  me  now  and  then  a 
lon^  9nd  lively  letter  from  Paris;  to  which 
place  he  went  last  year  Avith  the  gout  upon 
him,  sometimes  in  his  limbs,  often  in  his 
stomach  and  head.  He  has  got  somehow 
well,  (not  by  means  of  the  climate,  one  would 
think)  goes  to  all  public  places,  sees  all 
the  best  company,''  and  is  veiry  much  in 
fashion.  He  says  he  sunk  like  queen  Elea- 
nor at  Charing-Cross,  and  has  risen  again 
at  Paris.  He  returns  in  April.  I  saw  the 
lady  you  inquire  after,  when  I  was  last  in 
London,  and  a  prodigious  fine  one  she  is. 
She  had  a  strong  suspicion  of  rouge  on  her 
cheeks,  a  cage  of  foreign  birds  and  a  piping 
bullincii  at  her  elbow;  two  little  dogs  on  a 
cushion  in  her  lap,  and  a  cockatoo  on  her 
shoulder;  they  were  all  exceeding  glad  to 
see  me,  and  1  theai. 


gray's  letters.  133 

CXXVIII. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

Peinbrcke-Hall,  Aug.  25,  1766. 

Whatever  my  pen  may  do,  I  am  siire  my 
thoughts  expatiate  no  where  oftener,  or 
with  more  pleasure,  than  to  Old  Park.  I 
hope  you  have  made  my  peace  with  the 
angry  little  lady.  It  is  certain,  wiiether  her 
name  were  in  my  letter  or  not,  she  was  as 
present  to  my  memory  as  the  rest  of  the 
whole  family;  and  1  desire  you  would  pre- 
sent her  with  two  kisses  in  my  name,  and 
one  a-piece  to  all  the  others;. for  I  shi.ll 
take  the  liberty  to  kiss  them  all,  (great  and 
small)  as  you  are  to  be  my  proxy.. 

In  spite  of  the  rain,  which  1  think  conti- 
nued, with  very  short  intervals,  till  the 
beginning  of  this  month,  and  quite  etlhced 
the  summer  from  the  year,  I  made  a  ghifko 
pass  May  and  June  not  disagreeably  in  Kent. 
— I  was  surprised  at  the  beauty  of  the  road 
to  Canterbury,  which  (I  know  not  why) 
had  not  struck  me  before.  The  whole 
country  is  a  rich  and  well-cultivated  i-arden; 
orchards,  cherry-grounds,  hcp-gai  dens,  in- 
termixed  with  corn  and  frequent  villages; 


134         -  GRAV'S    LETTERS. 

gentle  risings  covered  with  wood,  and  every 
where  the  Thames  and  Medway  breaking 
in  upon  the  landscape  with  all  their  naviga- 
tion. It  was  indeed  owing  to  the  bad 
weather  that  the  whole  scene  was  dressed 
in  that  tender  emerald  green,  which  one 
usually  sees  only  for  a  fortnight  in  the 
opening  of  the  spring;  and  this  continued 
till  I  left  the  country.  My  residence  was 
eight  miles  east  of  CanterlDury,  in  a  little 
quiet  valley  on  the  skirts  of  BarhamDown.* 
In  these  parts  the  whole  soil  is  chalk,  and 
whenever  it  holds  up,  in  half  an  hour  it  is 
dry  enough  to  walk  out.  I  took  the  oppor- 
tunity of  three  or  four  days'  tine  weather  to 
go  into  the  isle  of  Thanet;  saw  Margate, 
(which  is  Bartholomew  fair  by  the  sea-side) 
Ramsgate,  and  other  places  there;  and  so 
came  by  Sandwich,  Deal,  Dover,  Folkstone, 
and  Hithe,  back  again.  The  coast  is  not 
like  Hartlepool;  there  are  no  rocks,  but 
only  chalky  cliffs  of  no  great  height  till  you 
come  to  Dover;  there  indeed  the}^  are  no- 
ble and  picturesque,  and  the  opposite  coasts 
of  France  begin  to  bound  your  view,  which 

*  At  Denton,  where  his  friend  the  Rev.  William  Robinson,  bro- 
tluT  lo  Matthew  Robiuson,  esq.  late  membei-  for  Canterbury,  then 
rejiide*!. 


was  left  before  to  range  unlimited  by  any 
thing  but  the  horizon;  yet  it  is  by  no  means 
a  shipless  sea,  but  every  where  peopled  with 
white  sails,  and  vessels  of  all  sizes  in  mo- 
tion: and  take  notice,  (except  in  the  isle, 
which  is  all  corn -fields,  and  has  very  little 
enclosure)  there  are  in  all  places  hedge- 
rows, and  tall  trees  even  within  a  few  yards 
of  the  beach.  Particularly,  Hiihe  stands 
on  an  eminence  covered  with  wood.  I  shall 
confess  we  had  fires  at  night  (ay,  and  at  day 
too)  several  times  in  June;  but  do  not  go 
and  take  advantage  in  the  north  at  this,  for 
it  was  the  most  untoward  year  that  ever  I  re- 
member. 

Have  you  read  the  New  Bath  Guide?  It 
is  the  only  thing  in  fashion,  and  is  a  new  and 
original  kind  of  humour.  Miss  Prue's  con- 
version, I  doubt,  you  will  paste  down,  as  a 
certain  Yorkshire  baronet  did  before  he  car- 
ried it  to  his  daughters:  yet  I  remember  you 
all  read  Crazy  Tales  without  pasting.  Buf- 
foti's  first  collection  of  monkies  is  come  out, 
(it  makes  the  14th  volume)  something,  but 
not  much  to  my  edification;  for  he  is  pretty 
well  acquainted  with  their  persons,  but  not 
with  their  manners. 

My  compliments  to  Mrs.  Wharton  and  all 
your  family;  I  will  not  name  them,  lest  1 
should  affront  anv  body. 


136  gray's  letters. 

CXXIX. 

TO  MP..  NICHOLLS. 

It  is  long  since  that  I  heard  you  were  gone  in 
haste  into  Yorkshire  on  account  oi*  your 
mother's  illness,  and  tlie  same  letter  inform- 
ed me  that  she  was  recovered,  otherwise  I 
had  then  wrote  to  you  only  to  beg  you 
would  take  care  of  her,  and  to  inform  you 
that  I  had  discovered  a  thing  very  little 
known,  which  is,  that  in  one's  whole  life 
one  can  never  have  any  more  than  a  single 
mother.  You  may  think  this  is  obvious,  and 
(what  you  call)  a  trite  observation.  You 
are  a  green  gosling!  I  was  at  the  same  age 
(very  near)  as  wise  as  you,  and  yet  1  never 
discovered  this  (with  full  evidence  and  con- 
viction 1  mean)  till  it  was  too  late.  It  is 
thirteen  years  ago,  and  seems  but  as  yester- 
<!ay,  and  every  day  I  live  it  sinks  deeper 
into  my  heart. ^'     Many  a  corollary  could  I 

•  He  seldom  mentioned  his  mother  without  a  sigh.  After  his 
death  her  gowns  arsd  wearing  apparel  were  found  in  a  trunk  in 
his  apartments  just  as  she  had  left  them  ;  it  seemed  as  if  he 
could  never  take  the  resolution  to  open  it,  in  oixler  to  distribute 
them  to  his  female  relations,  to  whom,  by  his  will,  he  bequeath- 
ed thciD. 


gray's  letters.  137 

draw  from  this  axiom  for  j^our  use,  (not  for 
my  own)  but  I  will  leave  you  the  merit  of 
doing  it  for  yourself.  Pray  tell  me  ho'.v 
your  health  is:  I  conclude  it  perfect,  as  I 
hear  you  offered  yourself  as  a  guide  to  Mr. 
Palgrave  into  the  Sierra-Morena  of  York- 
shire. For  me,  1  passed  the  end  of  May 
and  all  June  in  Kent,  not  disagreeably. 
In  the  west  part  of  it,  from  ev^ery  emi- 
nence, the  eye  catches  some  long  reach  of 
the  Thames  or  Medway,  with  all  their  ship- 
ping: in  the  east,  the  sea  brenks  in  upon 
you,  and  mixes  its  white  transient  sails  and 
glittering  blue  expanse  with  the  deeper  and 
brighter  greens  of  the  woods  and  corn. 
This  sentence  is  so  fine  I  am  quite  ashamed; 
but  no  matter!  You  must  translate  it  into 
prose.  Palgrave,  if  he  heard  it,  v/ould 
cover  his  face  with  his  pudding  sleeve.  I 
do  not  tell  you  of  the  great  and  small  beasts, 
and  creeping  things  innumerable,  that  I  met 
with,  because  you  do  not  suspect  that  this 
vv'orld  is  inhabited  by  any  thing  but  men 
and  women,  and  clergy,  and  such  tvv^o  legged 
cattle.  Now  I  am  here  again  very  discon- 
solate, and  all  alone,  for  Mr.  Brown  is  gone, 
and  the  cares  of  this  world  are  coming 
thick  upon  me:  you,  I  hope,  are  better  off, 
riding  and  walking  in  the  woods  of  Studley.. 


138  gray's  letters. 

&c.  &c.  I  must  not  wish  for  you  here;  be- 
sides I  am  going  to  town  at  Michaelmas,  by 
no  means  for  amusement. 


cxxx. 

TO    MR.    MASON. 

March  28, 1767. 

I  BREAK  in  upon  you  at  a  moment^  when  we 
least  of  all  are  permitted  to  disturb  our 
friends,  only  to  say,  that  you  are  daily  and 
hourly  present  to  my  thoughts.  If  the  worst* 
be  not  yet  past,  you  will  neglect  and  pardon 
me:  but  if  the  Itist  struggle  be  over;  if  the 
poor  object  of  your^ong  anxieties  be  no  long- 
er sensible  to  your  kindness,  or  to  her 
own  sufferings,  allow  me  (at  least  in  idea,  for 
what  could  I  do,  were  I  present,  more  than 
this?)  to  sit  by  you  in  silence,  and  pity  from 
my  heart,  not  her,  who  is  at  rest,  but  you, 
who  lose  her.     May  He,  who  made  us,  the 

*  As  this  little  billet  (which  I  received  at  the  Hot-Wells  at  Bris- 
tol) then  breathed,  and  still  seems  to  breathe,  the  veiy  voice  of 
friendship  in  its  tenderest  and  most  pathetic  note,  I  cannot  refrain 
from  publishing  it  in  this  place  I  oj>ened  it  almost  at  the  pre- 
cise moment  when  it  would  necessarily  be  the  most  affecting. 


oray's  letters.  139 

iiaster  of  our  pleasures   and    of  our  pains, 
preserve  and  support  you!     Adieu. 

1  have4ong  understood  how  little  you  had 
to  hope. 


CXXXI. 

TO    MR,    BEATTIE. 

Old  Park,  near  Darlingten,  Diiriiam, 
August  13, 1767. 

I  RECEIVED  from  Mr.  Williamson  that  very 
obliging  mark  you  were  pleased  to  give  me 
of  your  remembrance.  Had  I  not  enter- 
tained some  slight  hopes  of  revisiting  Scot- 
land this  summer,  and  consequently  of  see- 
ing you  at  Aberdeen,  I  had  sooner  acknow- 
ledged, by  letter,  the  favour  you  have  done 
me.  Those  hopes  are  now  at  an  end;  but  I 
do  not  therefore  despair  of  seeing  again  a 
country  that  has  given  me  so  much  pleasure; 
nor  of  telling  you,  in  person,  how  much  I 
esteem  you  and  (as  you  choose  to  call  them) 
your  amusements:  the  specimen  of  them, 
which  you  v«'ere  so  good  as  to  send  me,  I 
think  excellent;  the  sentiments  are  such  as 
a  melanchol}'^  imagination  naturally  suggests 
in  solitude    and    silence,    and    that    (though 


140  gray's  letters. 

light  and  business  may  suspend  or  banish 
them  at  times)  return  with  but  so  mjjch  the 
greater  force  upon  a  feehng  heart:  the  dic- 
tion is  elegant  and  unconstrained;  not  loaded 
with  epithets  and  figures,  nor  flagging  into 
prose;  the  versilication  is  ea?y  and  harmoni- 
ous.    My  only  objection  is  '^  *  * 

You  see,  sir,  I   take   the  liberty  you   in 
dulged   me  in,  when   I   first  saw   you;    and 
therefore  I  make  no  excuses  for  it,  but  de- 
sire you  would  take  your  revenge  on  me  in 
kind. 

I  have  read  over  (but  too  hastily)  Mr. 
Ferguson's  book.  There  are  uncommon 
strains  of  eloquence  in  it:  and  I  was  sur- 
prised to  find  not  one  single  idiom  of  his 
country  (I  think)  in  the  whole  work.  He 
has  not  the  fiiult  you  mention:*  his  applica- 

*  To  explain  this,  I  mast  take  the  liherty  to  transcribe  a  pai-ap 
S;raph  from  Mr  Beattie"s  letter,  dated  March  30,  to  which  the 
above  is  an  answer  :  "  \  professor  at  Edinburgh  has  published  an 
Essay  on  the  History  of  Civil  Society,  but  I  have  not  seen  it  It 
is  a  fault  common  to  almost  all  our  Scotch  authors,  that  they  are 
too  metaphysical  :  I  wish  tfjey  would  learn  to  speak  more  to  the 
heart,  and  less  to  the  understanding  :  bn  t  alas  !  this  is  a  talent 
which  Heaven  only  can  bestow  :  whereas  the  philosophic  spirit 
C  as  we  call  it)  is  mei-ely  artificial  and  level  to  the  capacity  of 
every  man,  who  has  mucli  patience,  a  little  learning,  a.id  no 
taste."  He  has  since  dilated  on  this  just  sentiment  in  bis  admira- 
ble Essay  on  the  Immutability  of  Truth . 


OR  ay's   letters.  141 

tion  to  the  heart  is  frequent,  and  often  suc- 
cessfuL  His  love  of  Montesquieu  and  Ta- 
citus has  led  him  into  a  manner  of  writing 
too  short-winded  and  sententious;  which 
those  great  men,  had  they  lived  in  better 
times  and  under  a  better  governmeDt,  would 
have  avoided. 

I  know  no  pretence  that  I  have  to  the 
honour  lord  Gray  is  pleased  to  do  metj 
but  if  his  lordship  chooses  to  own  me,  it 
certainly  is  not  my  business  to  deny  it.  I 
say  not  this  merely  on  account  of  his  quali- 
ty, but  because  he  is  a  very  worthy  and  ac- 
complished person.  I  am  truly  sorry  for 
the  great  loss  he  has  had  since  I  left  Scot- 
Lmd.  If  you  should  chance  to  see  him,  I 
will  beg  you  to  present  my  respectful  hum- 
ble service  to  his  lordship.       • 

I  gave  Mr.  WiUiamson  all  the  information 
I  was  able  in  the  short  time  he  stayed  with 
me.  He  seemed  to  answer  well  the  cha- 
racter you  gave  me  of  him:  but  what  I 
chielly  envied  in  him,  was  his  ability  of 
walking  all  the  way  from  Aberdeen  to  Cam- 
bridge, and  back  again;  which  if  I  posses- 
sed, you  would  soon  see  your  obliged,  &.c. 

t  Lord  Gray  had  said  tbat  cur  author  was  relattxl  to  his  family 


142  gray's  letters. 


CXXXIl. 


TO    MR.    EEATTIE. 


Fembtoke-Hall,  Dec.  24, 1767. 

Since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  receiving  your 
last  letter,  which  did  not  reach  me  till  1  had 
left  the  North,  and  was  come  to  London,  I 
have  been  confined  to  my  room  with  a  fit  of 
the  gout:  now  I  am  recovered  and  in  quiet 
at  Cambridge,  I  take  up  my  pen  to  thank 
you  for  your  very  friendly  offers,  which 
have  so  much  the  air  of  frankness  and  real 
good  meaning,  that  were  my  body  as  tracta- 
ble and  easy  of  conveyance  as  my  mind,  you 
would  see  me  to-morrow  in  the  chamber  you 
have  so  hospitably  laid  out  for  me  at  Aber- 
deen. But,  alasl  I  am  a  summer-bird,  and 
can  only  sit  drooping  till  the  sun  returns: 
even  then  too  my  wings  may  chance  to  be 
clipped,  and  little  in  plight  for  so  distant  an 
excursion. 

The  proposal  you  make  me,  about  print- 
ing at  Glasgow  what  little  I  have  ever  writ- 
ten, does  me  honour.  I  leave  my  reputation 
in  that  part  of  the  kingdom  to  your  care: 
and  only  desire  you  would  not  set  your  par- 
tiality to  me  and  mine  mislead  you.     If  you 


143 

persist  in  your  design,  Mr.  Foulis  certainly 
ought  to  be  acquainted  with  what  I  am  now 
going  to  tell  you  When  I  was  in  London 
the  last  spring,  Dodsley,  the  bookseller, 
asked  nay  leave  to  reprint,  in  a  smaller  form, 
all  I  ever  published;  to  which  I  consented: 
and  added,  that  1  would  send  him  a  few  ex- 
planatory notes;  and  if  he  would  omit  en- 
tirely the  Lons^  Story  (which  was  never 
meant  for  the  public,  and  only  suffered  to 
appear  in  that  pompous  edition  because  of 
Mr.  Bentley's  designs,  which  were  not  intel- 
ligible without  it),  I  promised  to  send  him 
something  else  to  print  instead  of  it,  lest  the 
bulk  of  so  small  a  volume  should  be  reduced 
to  nothing  at  all.  Now  it  is  very  certain 
that  1  had  rather  see  them  printed  at  Glas- 
gow (especially  as  you  will  condescend  to 
revise  the  press)  than  at  London;  but  I  know 
not  how  to  retract  my  promise  to  Dodsley. 
By  the  way,  you  perhaps  may  imagine  that 
I  have  some  kind  of  interest  in  this  publica- 
tion; but  the  truth  is,  I  have  none  whatever. 
The  expense  is  his,  and  so  is  the  profit  if 
there  be  any.  I  therefore  told  him  the 
other  day,  in  general  terms,  that  I  he^ird 
there  would  be  an  edition  put  out  in  Scot- 
land, by  a  friend  of  mine,  whom  I  could  not 
refuse;  and  that,  if  so,  I  would  send  thither 


144  GRAV'S    LETTERS. 

a  copy  of  the  same  notes  and  additions  that 
I  had  proniisod  to  send  to  hirn.  This  did 
not  seem  at  all  to  cool  his  courage;  Mr. 
Foulis  must  therefore  judjj;e  for  himself, 
whether  he  thinks  it  uortii  while  to  print 
what  is  going  to  he  printed  also  at  London. 
If  he  docs,  I  will  send  him  (in  a  packet  to 
you)  the  ^ame  things  I  shall  send  to  Dodsley. 
They  arc  imitations  of  two  pieces  of  old 
Norwegian  poetry,  in  vvhicii  there  was  a 
wild  spirit  that  struck  me:  but  for  my  para- 
plirases  I  cannot  say  nrtich;  you  will  judge. 
The  rest  are  nothing  but  a  few  parallel 
passages,  and  small  notes  just  to  explain 
what  people  said  at  the  time  was  wrapped  in 
total  darkness.  You  will  please  to  tell  me. 
as  soon  as  you  can  conveniently,  what  Mr. 
Foulis  says  on  this  head;  that  (if  he  drops 
the  design)  1  may  save  myself  and  you  the 
trouble  of  this  packet.  1  ask  your  pardon 
for  talking  so  long  about  it;  a  little  more, 
and  my  letter  would  be  as  big  as  all  my 
works. 

I  have  read,  with  much  pleasure,  an  ode 
of  yours  (in  which  you  have  done  me  the 
honour  to  adopt  a  measure  that  1  have  used) 
on  lord  Hay's  birth-day  Though  I  do  not 
love  panegyric,  I  cannot  but  applaud  this, 
for  there  is  nothing  mean  in  it.     The  diction 


gray's  letters.  145 

is  easy  and  noble,  the  textnre  of  the  thoughts 
lyric,  and  the  versification  harmonious.  The 
few  expressions  I  object  to  are  *  *  *.  These, 
indeed,  are  minutiae;  but  they  weigh  for 
something,  as  half  a  grain  makes  a  difference 
in  the  value  of  a  diamond. 


CXXXIII. 

TO  MR.  HOVf . 

Pembrt)ke.Hall,  Jan.  12, 1768. 

I  WAS  willing  to  go  through  the  eight  volumes 
of  count  Algarotti's  works,  which  you  lately 
presented  to  the  library  of  this  college,  be- 
fore I  returned  you  an  answer:  this  must  be 
my  excuse  to  you  for  my  silence.  First,  1 
condole  with  you,  that  so  neat  an  edition 
should  swarm  in  almost  every  page  with 
errors  of  the  press,  not  only  in  notes  and 
citations  from  Greek,  English  and  French 
authors,  but  in  the  Italian  text  itself,  greatly 
to  the  disreputation  of  the  Leghorn  pub- 
lishers. This  is  the  only  reason,  I  think, 
that  could  make  an  edition  in  England  ne- 
ces<iary;  but,  I  doubt,  you  would  not  find  the 
matter  much  mended  here;  onr  presses,  as 
they  improve  in  beauty,  declining  daily  ip 
VOL.  IV.  26 


146  GRAY  S    LETTERS. 

accuracy;  besides,  you  would  find  the  expense 
very  considerable,  and  the  sale  in  no  propor- 
tion to  it,  as,  in  reality,  it  is  but  few  people 
in  England  that  read  currently  and  with 
pleasure  the  Italian  tongue,  and  the  fine  old 
editions  of  their  capital  writers  are  sold  at 
London  for  a  lower  price  than  they  bear  in 
Italy.  An  English -translation  I  can  by  no 
means  advise;  the  justness  of  thought  and 
good  sense  might  remain,  but  the  graces  of 
elocution  (which  make  a  great  part  of  A)ga- 
rotti's  merit)  would  be  entirely  lost,  and  that 
merely  from  the  very  different  genius  and 
complexion  of  the  two  languages. 

Doubtless  there  can  be  no  impropriety  in 
your  making  the  same  present  to  the  uni- 
versity that  you  have  done  to  your  own  col- 
lege. You  need  not  at  all  to  fear  for  the 
reputation  of  your  friend :  he  has  merit 
enough  to  recommend  him  in  any  country. 
A  tincture  of  various  sorts  of  knowledge,  an 
acquaintance  wich  all  the  beautiful  arts,  an 
easy  command,  a  precision,  warmth,  and 
richness  of  expression,  and  a  judgment  that 
is  rarely  mistaken  on  any  subject  to  which 
he  applies  it.  1  had  read  the  Congresso  di 
Cittra  before,  and  vvas  excessively  pleased 
with  it,  in  spite  of  prejudice;  for  I  am  na- 
turally no  friend  to  allegory,  nor  to  poetical 


gray's  letters.  147 

prose.     The  Giudicio  d'  Amore  is  an  addi- 
tion  rather  inferior  to  it.     What  gives  me 
the  least  pleasure  of  any  of  his  writings  is 
the  Newtonianism  ;  it  is  so  direct  an  imita- 
tion of  Fontenelle,  a  writer  not  easy  to  imi- 
tate, and   least  of  all  in  the   Italian  tongue, 
whose  character  afld  graces  are  of  a  higher 
style,  and  never  adapt  themselves  easily  to 
the  elegant  badinage  and  legereie  of  conversa- 
tion that  sit  so  well  on  the  French.  The  essays 
and  letters   (many   of  them  entirely  new  to 
me)  on  the  Arts,  are  curious  and  entertain- 
ing: those  on  other   subjects  (even  where 
the    thoughts   are   not   nevv,    bnt  borrow^ed 
from  his  various  reading  and  conversation) 
often  better  put,  and  better  expressed  than 
in  the  originals.     I  rejoice  when  I  see  Ma- 
chiavel  defended  or  illustrated,  who  to  me 
appears  one  of  the  wisest  men  that  any  na- 
tion in  any  age  has  produced.     Most  of  the 
other  discourses,   military  or  political,   are 
well  \yorth   reading,  though  that  on  Kouli 
Khan  was  a  mere  jeu  d'esprit,  a  sort  of  his- 
torical exeicise.     The  letters  from  Russia 
I  had  read  before  with  pleasure,  particularly 
the  narrative  of  Munich's  and  Lascy's  cam- 
paigns.    The  detached  thoughts  ai^e  often 
new  and  just;  but  there  should  have  been 
a  revisal  of  them,  as  they  are  frequently  to 


148  gray's  letters. 

be  found  in  his  letters  repeated  in  the  very 
same  words.  Some  too  of  the  familiar  let- 
ters might  have  been  spared.  The  verses 
are  not  equal  to  the  prose,  but  they  are 
above  mediocrity. 


CXXXIV. 

TO    MR.    BEATTIE. 

Pembi^ke-Hall,  Feb.  1,  1768. 

I  AM  almost  sorry  to  have  raised  any  degree 
of  impatience  in  you,  because  I  can  by  no 
means  satisfy  it.  The  sole  reason  1  have  to 
publish  these  few  additions  now,  is  to  make 
up  (in  both)  for  the  omission  of  that  Long 
Story ;  and  as  to  the  notes,  I  do  it  out  of 
spite,  because  the  public  did  not  understand 
-the  two  odes  (which  I  have  called  Pindaric); 
though  the  first  was  not  very  dark,  and  the 
second  alluded  to  a  few  common  facts  to  be 
found  in  any  sixpenny  history  of  England,  by 
way  of  question  and  answer,  for  the  use  of 
children.  The  parallel  passages  I  insert  out 
of  justice  to  those  writers  from  whom  1  hap- 
pened to  take  the  hint  of  any  line,  as  far  as 
I  can  recollect. 


gray's  letters.  149 

I  rejoice  to  be  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  Fouh's, 
who  has  the  laudable  ambition  of  surpassing 
his  predecessors,  the  Etiemtes  and  the  Else- 
vim,  as  well  in  literature,  as  in  the  proper 
art  of  his  profession  :  he  surprises  me  in 
mentioning  a  lady,  after  whom  I  have  been 
inquiring-  these  fourteen  years  in  vain. 
When  the  two  odes  were  first  published,  I 
sent  them  to  her;^but  as  I  was  forced  to 
direct  them  very  much  at  random,  probably 
they  never  came  to  her  hands.  When  the 
present  edition  comes  out,  I  beg  of  Mr. 
Foulis  to  offer  her  a  copy  in  my  name,  with 
my  respects  and  grateful  remembrances  ;  he 
will  send  another  to  you,  sir,  and  a  third  to 
lord  Gray,  if  he  will  do  me  the  honour  of 
accepting  it.  These  are  all  the  presents  I 
pretend  to  make  (for  I  would  have  it  con- 
sidered only  as  a  new  edition  of  an  old  book); 
after  this,  if  he  pleases  to  send  me  one  or 
two,  I  shall  think  myself  obliged  to  him.  I 
cannot  advise  him  to  print  a  great  number; 
especially  as  Dodsley  has  it  in  his  power  to 
print  as  many  as  he  pleases,  though  I  desire 
him  not  to  do  so. 

You  are  very  good  to  me  in  taking  this 
trouble  upon  you:  all  I  can  say  is,  that  I 
shall  be  happy  to  return  it  in  kind,  when- 
ever you  will  give  me  the  opportunity. 


150  gray's  letters. 


cxxxv. 


TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 


Feb.  14, 1768,  Pembroke  Coll^je. 

I  RECEIVED  the  book*  you  were  so  good  to 
send  me,  and  have  read  it  again  (indeed  I 
could  hardly  be  said  to  have  read  it  before) 
with  attention  and  with  pleasure.  Your 
second  edition  is  so  rapid  in  its  progress, 
that  it  will  now  hardly  answer  any  purpose 
to  tell  you  either  my  own  objections,  or 
those  of  other  people.  Certain  it  is,  that 
you  are  universally  read  here;  but  what  we 
think,  is  not  so  easy  to  come  at.  We  stay 
as  usual  to  see  the  success,  to  learn  the 
judgment  of  the  town,  to  be  directed  in  our 
opinions  by  those  of  more  competent  judges. 
If  they  like  you,  we  shall;  if  any  one  of 
name  write  against  you,  we  give  you  up:  for 
we  are  modest  and  diffident  of  ourselves,  and 
not  without  reason.  History  in  particular  is 
not  OUT  forte  ;  for  (the  truth  is)  we  read  only 
modern  books  and  the  pamphlets  of  the  day. 
I  hdve  heard  it  objected,  that  you  raise 
doubts  and  difficulties,    and  do    not   satisfy 

*  The  Historic  Doubts. 


GRAV'S  LETTERS.  151 

them  by  telling  us  what  was  really  the  case. 
I  have  heard  you  charged  with  disrespect  to 
the  king  of  Prussia;  and  above  all  to  king 
William,  and  the  revolution.  These  are  se- 
riously the  most  sensible  things  I  have  heard 
said,  and  all  that  I  can  recollect.  If  you 
please  to  justify  yourself,  you  may. 

My  own  objections  are  little  more  essen- 
tial: they  relate  chiefly  to  inaccuracies  of 
style,  which  either  debase  the  expression 
or  obscure  the  meaning.  I  could  point  out 
several  small  particulars  of  this  kind,  and 
will  do  so,  if  you  think  it  can  serve  any 
purpose  after  publication.  When  I  hear 
you  read,  they  often  escape  me,  partly 
because  I  am  attending  to  the  subject,  and 
partly  because  from  habit  1  understand  you, 
where  a  stranger  might  often  be  at  a  loss. 

As  to  your  arguments,  most  of  the  prin- 
cipal points  are  made  out  with  a  clearness 
and  evidence  that  no  one  would  expect 
where  materials  are  so  scarce.  Yet  I  still 
suspect  Richard  of  the  murder  of  Henry 
VI.  The  chronicler  of  Croyland  charges 
it  full  on  him,  though  without  a  name  or 
any  mention  of  circumstances.  The  inte- 
rests of  Edward  were  the  interests  of 
Ptichard  too,  though  the  throne  wiere  not 
then  in  view;  and  that  Henry  still  stood  in 


152  gray's  letters. 

their  way,  they  might  well  imagine,  because, 
though  deposed  and  imprisoned  once  before, 
hte  had  regained  his  liberty,  and  his  crown; 
and  was  still  adored  by  the  people.  I  should 
think,  from  the  word  tyrannic  the  passage 
was  written  after  Richard  had  assumed  the 
crown:  but  if  it  was  earlier,  does  not  the 
bare  imputation  imply  very  early  suspicions 
at  least  of  Richard's  bloody  nature,  especial- 
ly in  the  mouth  of  a  person  that  was  no  ene- 
my to  the  house  of  York,  nor  friend  to  that 
of  Beaufort? 

That  the  duchess  of  Burgundy,  to  try  the 
temper  of  the  nation,  should  set  up  a  false 
pretender  to  the  throne  (when  she  had  the 
true  duke  of  York  in  her  hands),  and  that 
the  queen  mother  (knowing  her  son  was 
alive)  should  countenance  that  design,  is  a 
piece  of  policy  utterly  incomprehensible; 
being  the  most  likely  means  to  ruin  their  own 
scheme,  and  throw  a  just  suspicion  of  fraud 
and  falsehood  on  the  cause  of  truth,  which 
Henry  could  not  fail  to  seize,  and  turn  to 
his  own  advantage. 

Mr.  Hume's  first  query,  as  far  as  relates 
to  the  queen-mother,  will  still  have  some 
weight.  Is  it  probable,  she  should  give  her 
eldest  daughter  to  Heniy,  and  invite  him  to 
claim  the  crown,  unless  she  had  been  sure  that 


gray's  letters.  153 

her  sons  were  then  dead?  As  to  her  seem- 
ing consent  to  the  match  between  Ehzabeth 
and  Richard,  she  and  her  daughters  were  in 
his  power,  which  appeared  now  well  fixed, 
h's  enemies'  designs  within  the  kingdom 
being  every  where  defeated,  and  Henrj'  un- 
able to  raise  any  considerable  force  abroad. 
She  was  timorous  and  hopeless;  or  she  might 
dissemble,  in  order  to  cover  her  secret  deal- 
ings with  Richmond:  and  if  this  were  the 
case,  she  hazarded  little,  supposing  Richard 
to  dissemble  too,  and  never  to  have  thought 
seriously  of  marrying  his  niece. 

Another  unaccountable  thing  is,  that  Rich- 
ard, a  prince  of  the  house  of  York,  un- 
doubtedly brave,  clear-sighted,  artful,  atten- 
tive to  business;  of  boundless  generosity,  as 
appears  from  his  grants;  just  and  merciful, 
as  his  laws  and  his  pardons  seem  to  testify; 
having  subdued  the  queen  and  her  hated  fac- 
tion, and  been  called  first  to  the  protector- 
ship and  then  to  the  crown  by  the  body  of 
the  nobility  and  by  the  parliament;  with  the 
common  people  to  friend  (as  Carte  often 
asserts),  and  having  nothing  against  him  but 
the  illegitimate  family  of  his  brother  Edward, 
and  the  attainted  house  of  Clarence  (both  of 
them  within  his  povver); — that  such  a  man 
should  see  within  a  few  months  Buckingham, 


154  gray's  letters. 

his  best  friend,  and  almost  all  the  southern 
and  western  counties  on  one  day  in  arms 
against  him;  that,  having  seen  all  these  in- 
surrections come  to  nothing,  he  should 
march  with  a  gallant  army  against  a  handful 
of  needy  adventurers,  led  by  a  fugitive, 
who  had  not  the  shadow  of  a  title,  nor  any 
virtues  to  recommend  him,  nor  any  foreign 
strength  to  depend  on;  that  he  should  be 
betrayed  by  almost  all  his  troops,  and  fall  a 
sacrifice; — all  this  is  to  me  utterly  improba- 
ble, and  I  do  not  ever  expect  to  see  it  ac- 
counted for. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  tell  you,  that 
Algarotti  (as  I  see  in  the  new  edition  of  his 
works  printed  at  Leghorn),  being  employed 
to  buy  pictures  for  Ihe  king  of  Poland,  pur- 
chased among  others  the  famous  Holbein, 
that  was  at  Venice.  It  don't  appear  that  he 
knew  any  thing  of  your  book:  yet  he  calls  it 
the  consul  Meyer  and  his  family^  as  if  it  were 
then  known  to  be  so  in  that  city. 

A  young  man  here,  who  is  a  diligent  rea- 
der of  your  books,  an  antiquary,  and  a 
painter,  informs  me,  that  at  the  Red-lion  inn, 
at  Newmarket,  is  a  piece  of  tapestry,  con- 
taining the  very  design  of  your  marriage 
«f  Henry  the  Sixth,  only  with  several  more 


gray's  letters.  155 

figures  in  it,  both  men  and  women;  that  he 
would  have  bought  it  of  the  people,  but  they 
refused  to  part  with  it. 

Mr.  Mason,  who  is  here,  desires  to  pre- 
sent hi«  respects  to  you.  He  says,  that  to 
eilTice  from  our  annals  the  history  of  any 
tyrant  is  to  do  ^an  essential  injury  to  man- 
kind: but  he  forgives  it,  because  you  have 
shown  Henry  the  Seventh  to  be  a  greater 
devil  than  Richard. 

Pray  do  not  be  out  of  humour.  When 
you  first  commenced  an  author,  you  ex- 
posed yourself  to  pit,  box,  and  gallery. 
Any  coxcomb  in  the  world  may  come  in  and 
hiss,  if  he  pleases;  ay,  and  (what  is  alniiost 
as  bad)  clap  too,  and  you  cannot  hinder  bim, 
I  saw  a  little  squib  fired  at  you  in  a  newspa- 
per by  some  of  the  house  of  York,  for  speak- 
ing lightly  of  chancellors.     Adieu! 


CXXXVl. 

TO  MR.  WALPOLE 

,  Pembroke  College,  Feb.  25,  1768. 

To  your  friendly  accusation,  I  am  glad  I  can 
plead  not  guilty  with  a  safe  conscience. 
Dodsley  told  me  in  the  spring  that  the  plates 


156 

from  Mr.  Bentley's  designs  were  worn  out, 
and  he  wanted  to  have  them  copied  and  re- 
duced to  a  smaller  scale  for  a  new  edition. 
I  dissuaded  him  from  so  silly  an   expense, 
and  desired  he  would  put   in  no    ornaments 
at  all.     The    Lon^  Story  was   to  be    totally 
omitted,  as  its   only   use  (that   of  explaining 
the  prints)  was  gone:  but  to  supply  the  place 
of  it  in  bulk,  lest  my  works  should  be   mis- 
taken for  the  works  of  a  flea,  or  a  pismire,  I 
promised  to  send  him   an    equal   weight  of 
poetry  or  prose:  so,  since  my  return  hither, 
I  put'  up    about   two    ounces   of  stuff;  viz. 
The  Fatal  Sisters,  The  Descent  of  Odin  (of 
both  which  you  have  copies),  a  bit  of  some- 
thing from    the   Welsh,    and   certain     little 
notes,  partly   from  justice    (to    acknowledge 
the  debt,  where  I  had  borrowed  any  thing), 
partly  from  ill  temper,  just  to  tell  the  gentle 
reader,  that  Edward  1.  was  not  Oliver  Crom- 
well, nor  queen  Elizabeth  the  witch  of  En- 
dor.     This  is  literally  all;  and  with  all  this  I 
shall  be  but  a  shrimp  of  an  author.     I   gave 
leave  also  to  print  the  same  thing  at  Glas- 
gow ;  but  I  doubt  my  packet  has  miscarried, 
for  I  hear  nothing  pf  its  arrival  aS  yet.     To 
what  you  say  to  me  so  civilly,  that  1  ought  to 
write  more,  I  reply  in  your  own  words  (like 
the    pamphleteer,    who     is  going    to  con- 


okay's  letters.  167 

fute  you  out  of  your  own  mouth),  What 
has  one  to  do,  when  turned  ^f  fifty-,  but  real- 
ly to  think  of  finishing?  However,  1  will 
be  candid  (for  you  seem  to  be  so  with  me), 
and  avow  to  you,  that  till  fourscore  and  ten, 
whenever  the  humour  takes  me,  I  will  write, 
because  I  like  il;  and  because  I  like  myself 
better  when  I  do  so.  If  I  do  not  write 
much,  it  is  because  I  cannot.  As  you  have 
not  this  last  plea,  I  see  no  reason  why  you 
should  not  continue  as  long  as  it  is  agreeable 
to  yourself,  and  to  all  such  as  have  any  cu- 
riosity or  judgment  in  the  subjects  you 
choose  to  treat.  By  the  way;  let  me  tell 
you  (while  it  is  fresh)  that  lord  Sandwich, 
who  was  lately  dining  at  Cambridge,  speak- 
ing (as  1  am  told)  handsomely  of  your  book, 
said,  it  was  pity  you  did  not  know  that  his  cou- 
sin Manchester  had  a  genealogy  of  the  kings, 
which  came  down  \xo  lower  than  to  Richard 
111.  and  at  the  end  of  it  were  two  portraits 
of  Richard  and  his  son,  in  which  that  king 
appeared  to  be  a  handsome  man.  I  tell  you 
it  as  I  heard  it;  perhaps  you  may  think  it 
worth  inquiring  into. 

I  have  looked  into  Speed  and  Leslie.  It 
appears  very  odd  that  Speed,  in  the  speech 
he  makes  for  P.  Warbeck,  addressed  to' 
James  IV.  of  Scotland,  should  three  times 


158  gray's  letters. 

cite  the  manuscript  proclamation  of  Perkin, 
then  in  the  hands  of  sir  Robert  Cotton;  and 
yet  when  he  giv^s  us  the  proclamation  af- 
terwards (on  occasion  of  the  insurrection 
in  Cornwall)  he  does  not  cite  any  such 
manuscript.  In  Casley's  Catalogue  of  the 
Cotton  Library  you  may  see  whether  this 
manuscript  proclamation  still  exists  or  not: 
if  it  does,  it  may  be  found  at  the  Museum. 
Leslie  will  give  you  no  satisfaction  at  all: 
though  no  subject  of  England,  he  could  not 
write  freely  on  this  matter,  as  the  title  of 
Mary  his  mistress  to  the  crown  of  England 
was  derived  from  that  of  Henry  VII.  Ac- 
cordingly, he  every  where  treats  Perkin  as 
an  impostor;  yet  drops  several  little  ex- 
pressions inconsistent  with  that  supposition. 
He  has  preserved  no  proclamation:  he  on- 
ly puts  a  short  speech  into  Perkin's  mouth, 
the  substance  of  which  is  taken  by  Speed,  and 
translated  m  the  end  of  his,  which  is  a  good 
deal  longer:  the  whole  matter  is  treated  by 
Leslie  very  concisely  and  superficially.  I  can 
easily  transcribe  it,  if  you  please;  but  I  do 
not  see  that  it  could  answer  any  purpose. 
Mr  BoswelTs  book  I  was  going  to  re- 
commend to  you,  when  I  received  your 
letter:  it  has  pleased  and  moved  me  strange- 
ly, all  (I  mean)  that  relates  to   Paoli.     He 


GRAY  S    LETTERS.  169 

IS  a  man  born  two  thousand  years  after 
his  timet  The  pamphlet  proves  what  I  have 
always  maintained,  that  any  fool  may  write 
a  most  valuable  book  by  chnnce,  if  he  will 
only  tell  us  what  he  heard  and  saw  with  ve- 
racity. Of  Mr.  Boswell's  truth  I  have  not 
the  least  suspicion,  because  I  am  sure  he 
could  invent  nothing  of  this  kind.  The 
true  title  of  this  part  of  his  work  is,  A  Dia- 
logue between  a  Green-goose  and  a  Hero. 

1  had  been  told  of  a  manuscript  in  Bene't 
library:  the  inscription  of  it  is  Itineranvm 
Frairis  Simonis  Sitneonis  ft  Hiiiionis  Illumina' 
toris^  1322.  Would  not  one  iriink  this  should 
promise  something?  They  v^ere  two  Fran- 
ciscan friars  that  came  frooi  Ireland,  and 
passed  through  Wales  to  London,  to  Canter- 
bujy,  to  Dover,  and  so  to  France,  in  their 
way  to  Jerusalem.  All  that  relates  to  our 
own  country  has  been  transcribed  for  me, 
and  (sorry  am  I  to  say;  signihes  not  a  half- 
penny: only  this  little  bit  might  be  inserted 
in  your  next  edition  of  the  Painters:  Ad 
aliud  caput  civitatis  (Londoniee)  e.?i  monas- 
terium  nigrorum  monachorum  nomine  West- 
monasteriura,  in  quo  constanter  et  communi- 
ter  omnes  reges  Angliae  sepeliuntur — et 
eidem  monasterio  quasi  immediate  i  ofijan- 
gitur  illud  famosissimum  palatium  regis,  in 


160  gray's  letters. 

quo  est  ilia  vulgata  camera,  in  ciijus  parieti- 
bus  sunt  omnes  historiae  bellicae  totius  Bib- 
lias  ineff^ibiliter  depictaj,  atque  in  Gallico 
completissime  et  perfectissime  conscriptae, 
in  non  modica  intuentium  admiratione  et 
maxima  regali  magnificentia. 

J  have  had  certain  observations  on  your 
Royal  and  Noble  Authors  given  me  to  send 
you  perhaps  about  three  years  ago:  last 
week  I  found  them  in  a  drawer,  and  (my 
conscience  being  troubled)  now  enclose  them 
to  you.     I  have  even  forgot  whose  they  are. 

1  have  been  also  told  of  a  passage  in  Ph. 
de  Comines,  which  (if  you  know)  ought  not 
to  have  been  passed  over.  The  book  is 
not  at  hand  at  present,  and  I  must  conclude 
my  letter.     Adieu  ! 


CXXXVII. 

TO    MR.    WALPOLE. 

Pembroke- College,  March  6,  1768. 

Here  is  sir  William  Cornwallis,  entitled 
Essayes  of  certaine  Paradoxes.  2d  Edit, 
1617,  Lond. 


gray's  letters.  161 

King  Richard  III.  >. 

The  French  Pockes  j 

Nothing  I  , 

Good  to  be  in  debt  ;>praisecl. 

Sadnesse 

Juhan  the  Apostate's  vertiies  J 
The  title-page  nill  probably  suffice  you;  but 
if  you  would  know  any  more  of  him,  he  has 
read  nothing  but  the  common  chronicles, 
and  tliose  without  attention:  for  example, 
speaking  of  Anne  the  queen,  he  says,  she 
was  barren^  of  which  Richard  had  often  com- 
plained to  Rotheram.  He  extenuates  the 
murder  of  Henry  VI.  and  his  son:  the  first, 
he  says,  might  be  a  malicious  accusation,  for 
that  many  did  suppose  he  died  of  mere 
melancholy  and  grief:  the  latter  cannot  be 
proved  to  be  the  action  of  Richard  (though 
executed  in  his  presence);  and  if  it  were, 
he  did  it  out  of  love  to  his  brother  Edward. 
He  justifies  the  death  of  the  lords  at  Fom- 
fret,  from  reasons  of  state,  for  his  own  pre- 
servation, the  safety  of  the  commonwealth, 
and  the  ancient  nobility.  The  execnlion  of 
Hastings  he  excuses  from  necessity,  from 
the  dishonesty  and  sensuality  of  tl.e  man: 
what  was  his  crime  with  respect  to  Richard^ 
he  does  not  say.  Dr.  Shaw's  sermon  was 
not  by  th'-  king's  command,  but  to  be  impat- 
VOL.  IV.  27 


162  gray's  letters. 

ed  to  the  preacher's  own  ambition:  but  if  it 
was  by  order,  to  charge  his  mother  with  adul- 
tery was  a  matter  of  no  such  gnat  moment^ 
since  it  is  no  wonder  in  that  bcx.  Of  the 
murder  in  the  Tower  he  doubts;  but  if  it 
were  by  his  order,  the  offence  was  to  God, 
not  to  his  people;  and  how  could  he  dtmon- 
slraie  his  love  more  amply ^  than  to  venture  his 
soul  for  their  quiet  ?  Have  you  enough,  pray? 
You  see  it  is  an  idle  declamation,  the  exer- 
cise of  a  school-boy  that  is  to  be  bred  a 
statesman. 

I  iiave  looked  in  Stowe:  to  be  sure  there 
is  no  proclamation  there.  Mr.  Hume,  I 
suppose,  means  Speed,  where  it  is  given, 
hovv  truly  I  know  not;  but  that  he  had  seen 
the  original  is  sure,  and  seems  to  quote  the 
very  words  of  it  in  the  beginning  of  that 
f^peech  which  Perkin  makes  to  James  IV. 
and  also  just  afterwards,  where  he  treats  of 
the  Cornish  rebellion. 

Gulhrie,  you  see,  has  vented  himself  in 
trie  Critical  Review.  His  History  I  never 
saw,  nor  is  it  here,  nor  do  1  know  any  one 
that  ever  saw  it.  He  is  a  rascal,  but  rascals 
may  chance  to  meet  with  curious  records; 
and  Uiat  commission  to  sir  J.  Tyrell  (if  it 
be  not  a  lie)  is  such:  so  is  the  order  for 
Henry  the  Sixth's  funeral.     I  would  by  no 


gray's  letters.  163 

means  take  notice  of  him,  write  what  he 
would.  I  am  glad  you  have  seen  the  Man-" 
chester-roll. 

It  is  not  I  that  talk  of  Phil,  de  Comines; 
it  was  mentioned  to  me  as  a  thing  that  look- 
ed like  a  voluntary  omission:  but  1  see  you 
have  taken  notice  of  it  in  the  note  to  page 
71,  though  rather  too  slightly.  You  have 
not  observed  that  the  same  v/riter  says,c, 
55,  Richard  tua  de  sa  main,  ou  Jit  tucr  en  sa 
presence,  quelqiie  lieu  apart,  ce  bon  homtne  le 
roi  Henri/.  Another  oversight  I  think  there 
is  at  p.  43,  where  you  speak  of  the  roll  of 
parliament  and  the  contract  with  lady  Elea- 
nor Boteler,  as  things  newly  come  to  light; 
whereas  Speed  has  given  at  large  the  same 
roll  in  his  History.     Adieu! 


CXXXVIII. 

TO    THE    DUKE    OF    GRAFTON. 

Cambridge,  July,  1768. 

My  lord, 
YbuR  grace  has  dealt  nobly  with  me;   and 
the  same  delicacy  of  mind  that  induced  you 
to  confer  this  favour  on  me,  unsolicited  and 
unexpected,  may  perhaps  make  you  averse 


164  gray's  letters. 

to  receive  my  sincerest  thanks  and  grateful 
acknowledgments.  Yet  your  grace  must 
excuse  me,  they  will  have  theii*  way:  they 
are  indeed  but  words;  yet  I  know  and  feel 
they  come  fi-om  my  heart,  and  therefore  are 
not  wholly  unworthy  of  your  grace's  accep- 
tance. I  even  flatter  myself  (such  is  my 
pride)  that  you  have  some  little  satisfaction 
in  your  own  work.  If  I  did  not  deceive 
myself  in  this,  it  would  complete  the  happi- 
ness of,  A 
My  lord,  your  grace's 

Most  obliored  and  devoted  servant. 


CXXXIX. 


Jerniyn-street,  Aug.  3,  1768. 

That  Mr.  Brocket  has  broken  his  neck  by 
a  fall  from  his  horse,  you  will  have  seen  in 
the  newspapers;  and  also  that  I,  your  hum- 
ble servant,  have  kissed  the  king's  hand  for 
his  succession;  they  are  both  true,  but  the 
manner  how  you  know  not;  only  1  can  as- 

*  Rector  of  Lou nde  and  Bradwell,in  Suffolk.  His  acquaintance 
with  Mr.  Gray  commenced  a  few  years  before  the  date  ef  this, 
when  he  was  a  student  of  Trinity-Hall,  Cambridge. 


gray's  letters.  165 

sure  you  that  I  had  no  hand  at  all  in  his  fall, 
and  almost  as  little  in  the  second  event.  He 
died  on  the  Sunday;  on  Wednesday  follow- 
ing his  grace  the  duke  of  Grafton  wrote  me 
a  very  polite  letter,  to  say  that  his  majesty 
had  commanded  him  to  offer  me  the  vacant 
professorship,  not  only  as  a  reward  of,  &c. 
but  as  a  credit  to,  &c.  with  much  more  too 
high  for  me  to  transcribe.  So  on  Thursday 
the  king  signed  the  warrant,  and  next  day, 
at  his  levee,  I  kissed  his  hand;  he  made  me 
several  gracious  speeches,  which  I  shall  not 
repeat,  because  every  body,  that  goes  to 
court,  does  so:  besides,  the  day  was  so  hot, 
and  the  ceremony  so  embarrassing  to  me, 
that  I  hardly  knew  what  he  said. 

Adieu.  1  am  to  perish  here  with  heat 
this  fortnight  yet,  and  then  to  Cambridge; 
to  be  sure  my  dignity  is  a  little  the  worse  for 
wear,  but  mended  and  washed,  it  will  do  for 
me. 


CXL. 

TO    MR.    BEATTIE. 

Fembroke-Hall,  Oct.  31,  1768. 

It  is  some  time  since   I  received  from  Mr. 
Foulis  two  copies  of  my  poems,  one  by  the 


166  gray's  letters. 

hands  of  Mr.  T.  Pitt,  the  other  by  Mr.  Mer- 
rill, a  bookseller  of  this  town:  it  is  indeed  a 
most  beautiful  edition,  and  must  certainly  do 
credit  both  to  him  and  to  me:  but  1  fear  it 
will  be  of  no  other  advantage  to  him,  as 
J^odsley  has  contrived  to  glut  the  town 
alreadj'  with  two  editions  beforehand,  one  of 
1500,  and  the  other  of  750,  both  indeed  far 
inferior  to  that  of  Glasgow,  but  sold  at  half 
the  price.  I  must  repeat  my  thanks,  sir, 
for  the  trouble  you  have  been  pleased  to 
give  yourself  on  my.  account;  and  through 
you  I  must  desire  leave  to  convey  my 
acknowledgmetits  to  Mr.  Foulis,  for  the 
pains  and  expense  he  has  been  at  in  this 
publication. 

We  live  at  sp  great  a  distance,  that,  per- 
liaps,  you  may  not  yet  have  learned,  what, 
I  flatter  myself,  you  will  not  be  displeased  to 
hear:  the  middle  of  last  summer  his  majes- 
ty was  pleased  to  appoint  me  Regius  Profes- 
sor of  Modern  History  in  this  university;  it 
is  the  best  thing  the  crown  has  to  bestow 
(on  a  layman)  here;  the  salary  is  400/.  per 
annum,  but  what  enhances  the  value  of  it  to 
me  is,  that  it  was  bestowed  without  being 
asked.  The  person  who  held  it  before  me, 
died  on  the  Sunday;  and  on  Wednesday  fol- 
Ipwins:  the  duke  of  r, r;^fton  wrote  me  a  let- 


gray's  letters.  167 

ter  to  say,  tbot  the  king  offered  me  this 
office,  with  many  additional  expressions  of 
kindness  on  his  grace's  part,  to  whom  1  am 
but  little  known,  and  whom  I  have  not  seen 
either  before  or  since  he  did  me  this  favour. 
Instances  of  a  benetit  so  nobly  conferred,  I 
believe,  are  rare;  and  therefore  I  tell  you 
of  it  as  a  thing  that  does  honour,  not  only  to 
me,  but  to  the  minister. 

As  1  lived  here  before  from  choice,  I  shall 
now  continue  to  do  so  from  obligation:  if 
business  or  cmi  iosity  sho'.j'id  call  yoa  south- 
wards, you  will  find  few  friends  that  will  see 
you  with  more  cordial  satisfaction,  than. 
dear  sir,  &c. 


CXLI. 

TO    MR.    NICHOLLS. 

{  WAS  absent  from  college,  and  did  not  re- 
ceive your  melancholy  letter  till  my  return 
hither  yesterday;  so  you  must  not  attribute 
this  delay  to  me  but  to  accident;  to  sympa- 
thize with  you  in  such  a  loss*  is  an  easy  task 

*  The  death  of  bis  uncle,  goranor  Floycr. 


16*8  gray's  letters. 

for  me,  but  to  comfort  you  not  so  easy;  can  I 
wish  to  see  you  unaffected  witli  the  sad 
scene  now  before  your  eyes,  or  with  the 
loss  of  a  person  that,  through  a  great  part 
of  your  life,  has  proved  himself  so  kind 
a  friend  to  you?  He  who  best  knows  our 
nature  (for  he  made  us  what  we  are)  by 
such  afflictions  recalls  us  from  our  wander- 
ing thoughts  and  idle  merriment;  from  the 
insolence  of  youth  and  prosperity,  to  seri- 
ous reflection,  to  our  duty,  and  to  himself; 
nor  need  we  hasie'.i  to  get  rid  of  these  im 
pressions;  time  (by  appointment  of  the  same 
Power)  will  cure  the  smart,  and  in  some 
hearts  soon  blot  out  all  the  traces  of  sor- 
row: but  such  as  preserve  them  longest 
(for  it  is  partly  left  in  our  own  power)  do 
■perhaps  best  acquiesce  in  the  will  of  the 
Chastiser. 

For  the  consequences  of  this  sudden  loss, 
I  see  them  well,  and  I  think,  in  a  like 
situation,  could  fortily  my  mind,  so  as  to 
support  them  with  cheerfulness  and  good 
hopes,  though  not  naturally  inclined  to  see 
things  in  their  best  aspect.  When  you 
have  time  to  turn  yourself  round,  you 
must  think  seriously  of  your  profession; 
you  know  I  would  have  wished  to  see  you 
wear   the  livery  of  it  long  ago:  but  I  will 


gray's  letters.  169 

DOt  dwell  on  this  subject  at  present.  To 
be  (ibliged  to  those  we  love  and  esteem  is  a 
ple-isure;  but  to  serve  and  oblige  them  is 
a  still  greater;  and  this,  with  independence 
(no  vulgar  blessing)  are  what  a  profession 
at  your  age  may  reasonably  promise:  with- 
out it  they  are  hardly  attainable.  Remem- 
ber 1  speak  from  experience. 

In  the  mean  time,  while  your  present 
situation  lasts,  which  I  hope  will  not  be 
long,  continue  your  kindness  and  confidence 
in  me,  by  trusting  me  with  the  whole  of 
it;  and  surely  you  hazard  nothing  by  so 
doing:  that  situation  does  not  appear  so 
new  to  me  fis  it  4loes  to  you.  You  well 
know  the  tenour  of  my  conversation  (urged 
at  times  perhaps  a  little  farther  than  you 
liked)  has  been  intended  to*^  prepare  you 
for  this  event,  and  to  familiarize  your  mind 
with  this  spectre,  which  you  call  by  its 
worst  name:  but  remember  that  "  Honesta 
res  est  leeta  paupertas."  I  see  it  with  re- 
spect, and  so  will  every  one,  whose  pov- 
erty is  not  seated  in  their  mind.*  There 
is  but  one  real  evil  in  it  (take  my  word 
who  know  it  well)  and  that  is,  that  you 
have    less    the    power  of   assisting    others, 

*  An  excellent  thought  finely  expressed* 


170  gray's  letters. 

who  have  not  the  same  resources  to  sup- 
port them.  You  have  youth:  you  have 
many  kind  well-intentioned  people  belong- 
ing to  you;  many  acquaintance  of  your 
own,  or  families  that  will  wish  to  serve 
you.  Consider  how  many  have  had  the 
same,  or  greater  cause  for  dejection,  with 
none  of  these  resources  before  their  eyes. 
Adieu!     I  sincerely  wish  you  happiness. 

P.S.  I  have  just  heard  that  a  friend  of 
mine  is  struck  with  a  paralytic  disorder, 
in  which  state  it  is  likely  he  may  live 
incapable  of  assisting  himself,  in  the  hands 
of  servants  or  relations  that  only  gape  after 
his  spoils,  perhaps  for  vcais  tG  come:  think 
how  many  things  may  befall  a  man  far  worse 
thrtn  poverty  or  death. 


CXUI. 

TO    MR.    NICHOLLS. 

Pembroke  College,  June  24,  1769. 

And  so  you   have  a  garden  of  your   own,* 
and  you  plant  and  transplant,   and  are  dirty 

*  Mr.  Nicholls,  by  having  pursued  the  advice  of  his  correspon- 
dent, we  find  was  now  possessed  (^  that  eonipeteiicy  which  he 


okay's  letters.  171 

and  amused!  Are  not  you  ashamed  of  your- 
self ?  Why,  I  have  no  such  thing,  you  mon- 
ster, uor  ever  shall  be  either  dirty  or  amus- 
ed as  long  as  I  live.  My  gardens  are  in 
the  windows  like  those  of  a  lodger  up  three 
pair  of  stairs  in  Petticoat-Lane,  or  Camo- 
mile-Street, and  they  go  to  bed  regularly 
under  the  same  roof  that  I  do.  Dear,  how 
charming  it  must  be  to  walk  out  in  one's 
own  gardins^^  and  sit  on  a  bench  in  the  opea 
air,  with  a  fountain  and  leaden  statue,  and 
a  rolling  stone,  and  an  arbour:  have  a  care 
of  soar-throats  though,  and  the  agoe. 

However,  be  it  known  to  you,  though  I 
have  no  garden,  I  have  sold  my  estate  and 
got  a  thousand  guineas,*  and  fourscore 
pounds  a  year  for  mv  old  aunt,  and  a  twenty 
pound  prize  in  the  lottery,  and  Lord  knows 
what  arrears  in  the  treasury,  and  am  a  rich 
fellow  enough,  go  to;  and  a  fellow  that  hath 
had    losses,   and    one  that  hath  two   gowns, 

wished  him.    Happy^  not  only  in  having  so  sage  an  adviser,  but 

ill  his  own  good  sense  which  pron.pted  him  to  follow  such  advice. 

The  g:ayety,  whim,  and  humour  of  this  letter  contrast  prettily  with 

the  gravity  and  serious  reflection  of  the  former. 
*  Consisting  of  houses  on  the  west  side  of  Hand-Alley.  London  : 

Mrs.  Glide  was  the  aunt  here  mentioned,  who  bad  a  share  in  this 
estate,  and  for  whom  iie  procured  this  annuity.^  She  died  in  1771, 
a  few  raomhs  before  her  nephew. 


172  grab's  letters. 

a!id  every  thing  handsome  about  hitn,  and  in 
a  few  days  shall  have  new  window  curtains: 
are  you  advised  of  that?  Ay,  and  a  new 
mattress  to  lie  upon. 

My  ode  has  been  rehearsed  again  and 
again,*  and  the  scholars  have  got  scraps  by 
heart:  I  expect  to  see  it  torn  piece-meal  in 
the  North-Briton  before  it  is  born. — If  you 
will  come  you  shall  see  it,  and  sing  in  it 
amidst  a  chorus  from  Salisbury  and  Glouces- 
ter music  meeting,  great  names  there,  and 
all  well  versed  in  Judas  Maccabaeus.  I  wish 
it  were  once  over;  for  then  I  immediately 
go  for  a  few  days  to  London,  and  so  with 
Mr.  Brown  to  Aston,  though  I  fear  it  will 
rain  the  whole  summer,  and  Skiddaw  will 
be  invisible  and  inaccessible  to  mortals. 

I  have  got  De  la  Lande's  Voyage  through 
Italy,  in  eight  volumes;  he  is  a  member  of 
the  academy  of  sciences,  and  pretty  good  to 
read.  I  have  read  too  an  octavo  volume  of 
Shenstone's  Letters:  poor  man!  he  was  al- 
ways wishing  for  money,  for  fame,  and  other 
distinctions;  and  his  whole  philosophy  con- 
sisted in  living  against  his  will  in  retirement, 
and  in  a  place  which  his  taste  had  adorned; 
but  which  he  onl}*"   enjoyed  when  people  of 

t  Ocle  for  Music  on  the  duke  of  Grafton's  installation.    Sec 
Poems.    His  reason  for  writing  it  is  given  in  the  next  letter. 


ghay's  letters.  173 

note  came  to  see  and  commend  it:  his  cor- 
respondence is  about  nothing  else  but  this 
place  and  his  own  writings,  with  two  or 
three  neighbouring  clergymen  who  wrote 
verses  too. 

I  have  just  found  the.  beginning  of  a  let- 
ter, which  somebody  had  dropped:  I  should 
rather  call  it  tirst-thoughts  for  the  begin- 
ning of  a  letter;  for  there  are  many  scrr^tches 
and  correction?.  As  1  cannot  use  it  myself, 
(having  got  a  beginning  already  of  my  own) 
I  send  it  for  your  use  on  some  great  occa- 
sion. 

Dar  Sir., 

"  After  so  long  silence,  the  hopes  of  par- 
don, and  prospect  of  forgiveness  might  seem 
entirely  extinct,  or  at  least  very  remote, 
was  1  not  truly  sensible  of  your  goodness 
and  candour,  which  is  the  only  asylum  that 
my  negligence  can  fly  to,  since  every  apo- 
logy wo  lid  prove  insufficient  to  counter- 
balance it,  or  alleviate  my  fault:  how  then 
shall  my  deficiency  presume  to  make  so  bold 
an  attempt,  or  be  able  to  suffer  the  hard- 
ships of  so  rough  a  campaign?"    kc.  &;c.  &c. 


174  GRAY  S  LETTERS. 


CXLIIl. 


TO    MR.    BEATTIE. 

Cambridge,  July  16,  1769. 

The  late  ceremony  of  the  chike  of  Grafton's 
installation  has  hindered  me  from  acknow- 
ledging sooner  the  satisfaction  your  friendly 
compliment  gave  me:  I  thought  myself  bound 
in  gratitude  to  his  grace,  unasked,  to  take 
upon  me  the  task  of  writing  those  verses 
which  are  usually  set  to  music  on  this  occa- 
sion.* I  do  not  think  them  worth  sending 
you,  because  tliey  are  by  nature  doomed  to 
live  but  a  single  day;  or,  if  their  existen«"e 
is  prolonged  beyond  that  date,  it  is  only  by 
means  of  newspaper  parodies,  and  witless 
criticisms.  This  sort  of  Jibuse  I  had  reason 
to  expect,  but  did  not  think  it  worth  while 
to  avoid. 

*  In  a  short  note  ■whirh  he  vftote  to  Mr.  Stonhewer,  June  12, 
-when,  at  his  request,  he  seiit  him  the  ode  in  manuscript  for  his 
grace's  perusal,  he  exprestss  this  motive  more  fully.  "  I  did  not 
intend  the  duke  should  have  heard  me  till  he  could  not  help  it. 
Tou  are  desired  to  make  the  best  excuses  you  can  to  his  grace  for 
the  liberty  I  have  taken  of  praising  him  to  his  face  ;  but  as  some- 
body was  necessai'ily  to  do  this,  I  did  uot  see  why  gratitude  should 
sit  silent  and  leave  it  to  Fxpectation  to  sing,  who  certainly  would 
hare  sung*  and  that  a  gorge  deployee  upon  such  an  occasion." 


gray's  letters.  175 

Mr.  Foulis  is  maj;nilicent  in  his  gratitude:* 
I  cannot  figure  to  myself  ho'.v  it  can  be  worth 
his  while  to  offer  me  such  a  present.  Yon 
can  judge  better  of  it  than  I;  and  if  he  does 
not  hurt  himself  by  it,  I  would  accept  bis 
Homer  with  many  thanks.  I  have  not  got  or 
even  seen  it. 

I  could  wish  to  subscribe  to  his  new  edi- 
tion of  Milton,  and  desire  to  be  set  down  for 
two  copies  of  the  large  paper;  but  you  must 
inform  me  where  and  when  I  may  pay  the 
money. 

You  have  taught  me  to  long  for  a  second 
letter,  and  particularly  for  what  you  say  will 
make  the  contents  of  it. t  1  have  nothing  to 
requite  it  with  but  plain  and  friendly  truth, 
and  that  you  shall  have,  joined  to  a  zeal  for 
your  ftime,  and  a  pleasure  in  your  success. 

I  am  now  setting  forward  on  a  journey 
towards  the  north  of  England;  but  it  will  not 
reach  so  far  as  I  could  wish.  I  must  return 
hither  before   Michaelmas,  and  shall  barely 

*  When  the  Glasgow  edition  of  Air  Gray's  poems  was  sold  off' 
(which  it  was  in  a  short  tiine)  Mr.  Foulis,  finding  hiir.self  a  con- 
siderable gainer,  raeutioued  to  Mi.  Bcattie,  tba>  he  wished  to  make 
Ml-  Gray  a  present  either  of  his  Homei',  in  4  vols,  folio,  or  the 
Greek  historians,  piiiited  likewise  at  his  press,  in  :  Q  vols,  duode- 
eimo. 

t  His  forrespondent  had  intimated  to  him  his  intention  of  send- 
ing him  his  first  book  of  the  Minsttel. 


176  ©ray's  letters. 

have  time  to  visit  a  few  places,  and  ;j  few 
friends. 


CXLIV. 


TO  DR.  WHARTON. 

Aston,  Oct.  18,  1769. 

J  HOPE  yo«]  got  safe  and  well  home  after  that 
troublesome  night.'*  1  long-  to  hear  jou  say 
so.     For  me,  1  have  continued  well,  been  so 

*  Dr.  Wharton,  who  had  intended  to  accompany  Mr  Gray  to 
Keswick,  was  seized  at  Brongh  with  a  violent  fit  of  his  asthma, 
which  obliged  him  to  retvim  home.  This  was  the  reason  thai  Mr. 
Gray  undertook  to  write  the  following  journal  of  his  tour  for  his 
friend's  amusement.  He  sent  it  under  diftert  rit  covers.  I  give  it 
here  in  continuation.  It  may  not  he  amiss,  however,  to  hint  to  the 
reader,  that  if  he  expects  to  find  elaborate  and  nicelj-turntd  peri- 
ods in  this  narration,  he  will  be  givatly  .dlsappointetl.  "When  Mr. 
Gray  described  places,  he  aimed  only  to  be  exact,  tkar,  and  intel- 
ligible ;  to  convey  peculiar,  not  general  ideas,  and  to  paint  by  the 
eye,  not  the  fancy.  There  lave  been  many  accounts  of  the  West- 
moreland and  Cumberland  lakes,  both  before  and  since  this  was 
written,  and  all  of  them  better  calculated  to  please  readers  who 
are  fond  of  what  they  C2i\\fne  writing  :  yet  those,  who  can  content 
themselves  with  an  elegant  simplicity  of  nanative,  will,  I  flatter 
jnyself,  find  this  to  their  taste  ;  they  will  i)erceive  it  was  written 
with  a  view  rather  to  inform  than  surprise  ;  and,  if  they  make  it 
their  co.npanion  when  they  take  the  same  tour,  it  will  enhance 
their  opinion  of  its  intrinsic  excellence ;  in  this  way  I  tiied  it 
myself  before  1  resolved  to  print  it. 


gray's  letters.  177 

favoured  by  the  weather,  that  my  walks 
have  never  once  been  hindered  till  yester- 
day) that  is  a  fortnight  and  three  or  four 
days,  and  a  journey  of  more  than  300  miles). 
I  am  novv  at  Aston  for  tvvo  da\'^s.  To-mor- 
row I  go  to  Cambridge.  Mason  is  not  here, 
but  Mr.  Alderson  receives  me.  According 
to  my  promise,  I  send  you  the  first  sheet  of 
my  journal,  to  be  continued  without  end. 

Sept.  30.  A  mile  and  a  half  from  Brough, 
where  we  parted,  on  a  hill,  lay  a  great  army* 
encamped:  to  the  left  opened  a  fine  valley 
with  green  meadows  and  hedge-rows,  a  gen- 
tleman's house  peeping  forth  from  a  grove  of 
old  trees.  On  a  nearer  approach  appeared 
myriads  of  cattle  and  horses  in  the  road  itself, 
and  in  all  the  fields  round  me,  a  brisk  stream 
hurrying  cross  the  way,  thousands  of  clean 
healthy  people  in  their  best  party-coloured 
apparel:  farmers  and  their  families,  enquires 
and  their  daughters,  hastening  up  from  the 
dales  and  down  the  fells  from  every  quarter, 
glittering  in  the  sun,  and  pressing  forward 
to  join  the  throng;  while  the  dark  bins,  on 
whose  tops  the  mists  were  yet  hanging, 
served  as  a  contrast  to  this  gay  and  moving 

*  There  is  a  great  fair  for  cattle  kept  on  the  Wll  near  Brough 
on  this  day  and  the  prectdiug. 

VOL.  ir.  28 


178  gray's  letters. 

scene,  which  continued  for  near  two  miles 
more  along  the  road,  and  the  crowd  (coming 
towards  it)  reached  on  as  far  as  Appleby. 
Op  the  ascent  of  the  hill  above  Appleby  the 
thick  hanging  wood,  and  the  long  reaches 
of  the  Eden,  clear,  rapid,  and  as  full  as  ever, 
winding  below,  with  views  of  the  castle  and 
town,  gave  much  employment  to  the  mir- 
ror:'^ but  now  the  sun  was  wanting,  and  the 
sky  overcast.  Oats  and  barley  cut  every 
where,  but  not  carried  in.  Passed  Kirby- 
thore,  sir  William  Dalston's  house  at  Acorn- 
Bank,  Whinfield  Park,  Harthorn  Oaks,  Coun- 
tess-Pillar, Brougham  Castle,  Mr.  Brown's 
large  new  house  ;  crossed  the  Eden  and  the 
Eimot  (pronounce  Eeman)  with  its  green 
vale,  and  dined  at  three  o'clock  with  Mrs. 
Buchanan  at  Penrith,  on  trout  and  partridge. 
In  the  afternoon  walked  up  Beacon-hill,  a 
mile  to  the  top,  and  could  see  Ulswater 
through  an  opening  in  the  bosom  of  that 
cluster  of  broken  mountains,  which  the  doc- 
tor well  remembers,  Whinfield  and  Lowther 

*  Mr.  Gray  carried  usually  with  him  on  these  tours  a  planet 
convex  mirror  of  about  four  inches  diameter  on  a  black  foil,  and 
bound  up  like  a  pocket-book.  A  glass  of  this  soit  is  perhaps  the 
best  and  most  convenient  sul'stitute  for  a  camera  obscura,  of 
any  thing  that  has  hitherto  be«n  iiirented,  and  may  be  hsui  cf  any 
optician. 


gray's  letters.  179 

parks,  &c.  and  the  craggy  tops  of  an  hun- 
dred nameless  hills:  these  lie  to  west  and 
south.  To  the  north,  a  great  extent  of 
black  and  dreary  plains.  To  the  east,  Cross- 
fell,  just  visible  through  mists  and  vapours 
hovering  round  it. 

Oct,  1.  A  gra3^  autumnal  day,  the  air  per- 
fectly calm  and  mild;  went  to  see  Ulswater, 
five  miles  distant;  soon  left  the  Keswick- 
road,  and  turned  to  thfe  left,  through  shady 
lanes,  along  the  vale  of  Eeman,  which  runs 
rapidly  on  near  the  way,  rippling  over  the 
stones;  to  the  right  is  Delmaine,  a  large 
fabric  of  pale  red  stone,  with  nine  windows 
in  front  and  seven  on  the  side,  built  by  Mr. 
Hassle;  behind  it  a  fine  lawn  surrounded  by 
woods,  and  a  long  rocky  eminence  rising 
over  them:  a  clear  and  brisk  rivulet  runs 
by  the  house  to  join  the  Eeman,  whose 
course  is  in  sight  and  at  a  small  distance. 
Farther  on  appears  Hatton  St.  John,  a  cas- 
tle-like old  mansion  of  Mr.  Huddleston. 
Approached  Dunmallert,  a  fine  pointed  hill 
covered  with  wood,  planted  by  old  Mr. 
Hassle  before-mentioned,  who  lives  always 
at  home,  and  delights  in  planting.  Walked 
over  a  spongy  meadow  or  two,  and  began  to 
mount  the  hill  through  a  broad  straight  green 
alley  among  the  trees,  and  with  some  toil 


)80 

gained  the  summit.  From  hence  saw  the 
lake  opening  directly  at  my  feet,  majestic  in 
its  calmness,  clear  and  smooth  as  a  blue 
mirror,  with  winding  shores  and  low  points 
of  land  covered  with  green  enclosures,  white 
farm-houses  looking  out  among  the  trees, 
and  cattle  feeding.  The  water  is  almost 
every  where  bordered  with  cultivated  lands, 
gently  sloping  upwards  from  a  mile  to  a 
quarter  of  a  mile  in  breadth,  till' they  reach 
the  feet  of  the  mountains,  which  rise  very 
rude  and  awful  with  their  broken  tops  on 
either  hand.  Directly  in  front,  at  better 
than  three  miles  distance,  Place-Fell,  one 
of  the  bravest  among  them,  pushes  its  bold 
broad  breast  into  the  midst  of  the  lake,  and 
forces  it  to  alter  its  course,  forming  first 
a  large  bay  to  the  left,  and  then  bending  to 
the  right.  I  descended  Dunmallert  again  by 
a  side  avenue,  that  was  only  not  perpen- 
dicular, and  came  to  Bartonbridge  over  the 
JEeman,  then  walking  through  a  path  in  the 
wood  round  the  bottom  of  the  hill,  came 
forth  where  the  Eeman  issues  out  of  the 
lake,  and  continued  my  way  along  its  wes- 
tern shore  close  to  the  water,  and  generally 
on  a  level  with  it.  Saw  a  cormorant  flying 
over  it  and  fishing.  The  figure  of  the  lake 
nothing   resembles   that   laid   down    in  our 


gray's  letters.  181 

maps:  it  is  nine  miles  long,  and  at  widest 
under  a  mile  in  breadth.  After  extending 
itself  three  miles  and  a  half  in  a  line  to  the 
south-west,  it  turns  at  the  foot  of  Place«Fell 
almost  due  west,  and  is  here  not  twice  the 
breadth  of  the  Thames  at  London.  It  is 
soon  again  interrupted  b}'^  the  root  of  Hel- 
vellyn,  a  lofty  and  very  rugged  mountain; 
and  spreading  again,  turns  oft'  to  south-east, 
and  is  lost  among  the  deep  recesses  of  the 
hills.  To  this  second  turning  I  pursued  ray 
way  about  four  miles  along  its  borders  be- 
yond a  village  scattered  among  trees,  and 
called  Water-Mallock,  in  a  pleasant  grave 
day,  perfectly  calm  and  warm,  but  without 
a  gleam  of  sunshine;  then  the  sky  seeming 
to  thicken,  and  the  valley  to  grow  more  de- 
solate, and  evening  drawing  on,  I  returned 
by  the  way  1  came  to  Penrith. 

OcL  2.  I  set  out  at  ten  for  Keswick,  by 
the  road  we  went  in  1767;  saw  Greystock 
town  and  castle  to  the  right,  which  lie  about 
three  miles  from  Ulswater  over  the  fells; 
passed  through  Penradoch  and  Threlcot  at 
the  foot  of  Saddleback,  whose  furrowed  sides 
were  gilt  by  the  noonday  sun,  whilst  its 
brow  appeared  of  a  sad  purple  from  the 
shadow  of  the  clouds  as  they  sailed  slowly 
by  it.     The  broad  aid  green  valley  of  Gar 


i'6'£  gray's  letters. 

dies  and  Lowside,  with  a  swift  stream  glit- 
tering among  the  cottages  and  meadows,  lay 
to  the  left,  and  the  much  finer  but  narrower 
valley  of  St.  John's  opening  into  it:  Hilltop, 
the  large  though  low  mansion  of  the  Gas- 
karths,  now  a  farm-house,  seated  on  an  emi- 
nence among  woods,  under  a  steep  fell,  was 
what  appeared  the  most  conspicuous,  and 
beside  it  a  great  rock,  like  some  ancient 
tower  nodding  to  its  fall.  Passed  by  the 
side  of  Skiddaw  and  its  cub  called  Latter-rig; 
and  saw  from  an  eminence,  at  two  miles 
distance,  the  vale  of  Elysium  in  all  its  ver- 
dure; VhQ  sun  then  playing  on  the  bosom  of 
the  lake,  and  lighting  up  all  the  mountains 
with  its  lustre.  Dined  by  two  o'clock  at  the 
Queen's  Head,  and  then  straggled  out  alone 
to  the  Parsonage,  where  I  saw  the  sun  set 
in  all  its  glory. 

Oct.  3.  A  heavenly  day;  rose  at  seven 
and  walked  out  under  the  conduct  of  my 
landlord  to  Borrowdale;  the  grass  was  co- 
vered with  a  hoar-frost,  which  soon  melted 
and  exhaled  in  a  thin  blueish  smoke;  crossed 
the  meadows,  obliquely  catching  a  diversity 
of  views  among  the  hills  over  the  lake  and 
islands,  and  changing  prospect  at  every  ten 
paces.  Left  Cockshut  (which  we  formerly 
mounted  J  and  Castle-hill,  a  loftier  and  more 


GRAlr's    LETTERS.  183 

rugged  hill  behind  me,  and  drew  near  the 
foot  of  Wallacrag,  whose  bare  and  rocky- 
brow  cut  perpendicularly  down  above  400 
feet  (as  I  guess,  though  the  people  call  it 
much  more)  awfully  overlooks  the  way. 
Our  path  here  tends  to  the  left,  and  the 
ground  gently  rising  and  covered  with  a 
glade  of  scattering  trees  and  bushes  on  the 
very  margin  of  the  water,  opens  both  ways 
the  most  delicious  view  that  my  eyes  ever 
beheld;  opposite  are  the  thick  woods  of  lord 
Egremont  and  Newland-valley,  with  green 
and  smiling  fields  embosomed  in  the  dark 
cliffs;  to  the  left  the  jaws  of  Borrowdale, 
with  that  turbulent  chaos  of  mountain  be- 
hind mountain,  rolled  in  confusion;  beneath 
you,  and  stretching  far  away  to  the  right, 
the  shining  purity  of  the  lake  reflecting 
rocks,  woods,  fields,  and  inverted  tops  of 
hills,  just  ruffled  by  the  breeze,  enough  to 
show  it  is  alive,  with  the  white  buildings  of 
Keswick,  Crosthwaite  church,  and  Skiddaw 
for  a  back  ground  at  a  distance.  Behind 
you  the  magnificent  heights  of  Walla-crag: 
here  the  glass  played  its  part  divinely  ;  the 
place  is  called  Carfclose-reeds;  and  1  chose 
to  set  down  these  barbarous  names,  that  any 
body  may  inquire  on  the  place,  and  easily 
find  the  particular  station  that  I  mean.  This 


184  gray's  letters. 

scene  continues  to  Barrow-gate,  and  a  little 
farther,  passing  a  brook  called  Barrow-beck; 
we  entered  Borrowdale:  the  crags  named 
Lawdoor  banks  begin  now  to  impend  terribly 
over  your  way,  and  more  terribly  when  you 
hear  that  three  years  since  an  immense  mass 
of  rock  tumbled  at  once  from  the  brow,  and 
barred  all  access  to  the  dale  (for  this  is  the 
only  road)  till  they  could  work  their  way 
through  it.  Luckily  no  one  was  passing  at 
the  time  of  this  fall;  but  down  the  side  of  the 
mountain,  and  far  into  the  lake,  lie  dispersed 
the  huge  fragments  of  this  ruin  in  all  shapes 
and  in  all  directions:  something  farther  we 
turned  aside  into  a  coppice,  ascending  a 
little  in  front  of  Lawdoor  water-fall;  the 
height  appeared  to  be  about  200  feet,  the 
quantity  of  water  not  great,  though  (these 
three  days  excepted)  it  had  rained  daily  in 
the  hills  for  near  two  months  before:  but 
then  the  stream  was  nobly  broken,  leaping 
from  rock  to  rock,  and  foaming  with  fury. 
On  one  side  a  towering  crag  that  spired  up 
to  equal,  if  not  overtop,  the  neighbouring 
tilifls  (this  lay  all  in  shade  find  darkness):  on 
the  other  hand  a  rounder  broader  projecting 
hill  shagged  with  wood,  and  illuminated  by 
the  sunj  which  glanced  sideways  on  the  up- 
per part  of  the  cataract.     The  force  of  the 


gray's  letters.  185 

water  wearing  a  deep  channel  in  the  ground, 
hurries  away  to  join  the  lake.  We  descend- 
ed again,  and  passed  the  streano  over  a  rude 
bridge.  Soon  after  we  came  under  Gowdar- 
crag,  a  hill  more  formidable  to  the  eye,  and 
to  the  apprehension,  than  that  of  Lawdoor; 
the  rocks  at  top,  deep-cloven  perpendicular- 
ly by  the  rains,  hanging  loose  and  nodding 
forwards,  seem  just  starting  from  their  base 
in  shivers.  The  whole  way  down,  and  the 
road  on  both  sides  is  strewed  with  piles  of 
the  fragments  strangely  thrown  across  each 
other,  and  of  a  dreadful  bulk;  the  place  re- 
minds me  of  those  passes  in  the  Alps,  where 
the  guides  tell  you  to  move  on  with  speed, 
and  say  nothing,  lest  the  agitation  of  the  air 
should  loosen  the  snows  above,  and  bring 
down  a  mass  that  would  overwhelm  a  cara- 
van. I  took  their  counsel  here,  and  hasten- 
ed on  in  silence. 

Non  ragioDiam  di  lor,  ma  g^uarda,  e  passa  ! 

The  hills  here  are  clothed  all  up  their 
steep  sides  with  oak,  ash,  birch,  holly,  kc.  : 
some  of  it  has  been  cut  forty  years  ago, 
some  within  these  eight  years;  yet  all  is 
sprung  again,  green,  flourishing,  and  tall,  for 
its  age,  in  a  place  where  no  soil  appears  but 


186  GRA¥'S    LETiTERS. 

the  staring  rock,  and  where  a  man  could 
scarce  stand  upright:  here  we  met  a  civil 
young  farmer  overseeing  his  reapers  (for  it 
is  now  oat  harvest)  who  conducted  us  to  a 
neat  white  house  in  the  vilhige  of  Grange, 
which  is  built  on  a  rising  ground  in  the 
midst  of  a  valley;  round  it  the  mountains 
form  an  awful  amphitheatre,  and  through  it 
obliquely  runs  the  Derwent  clear  as  glass, 
and  showing  under  its  bridge  every  trout 
that  passes.  Beside  the  village  rises  around 
eminence  of  rock  covered  entirely  with  old 
trees,  and  over  that  more  proudly  towers 
Castle-crag,  invested  also  with  wood  on  its 
sides,  and  bearing  on  its  naked  top  some  tra- 
ces of  a  fort  said  to  be  Roman.  By  the  side 
of  this  hill,  which  al;nost  blocks  up  the  way, 
ihe  valley  turns  to  the  left,  and  contracts  its 
dimensions  till  there  is  hardly  any  road  but 
the  rocky  bed  of  the  river.  The  wood  of 
the  mountains  increases,  and  .their  summits 
grow  loftier  to  the  eye,  and  of  more  fantastic 
forms;  among  them  appear  Eagle 's-cl iff, 
Dove's-nest,  Whitedale-pike,  &c.  celebrated 
names  in  the  annals  of  Kesvvick.  The  dale 
opens  about  four  miles  higher  till  you  come 
to  Seawhaite  (where  lies  the  way,  mounting 
the  hills  to  the  right,  that  leads  to  the  Wadd- 
mines);  all  farther  access  is  here  barred  to 


gray's  letteks.  187 

prying  mortals,  only  there  is  a  little  path 
winding  over  the  fells,  and  for  some  weeks 
in  the  year  passable  to  the  dalesmen;  but 
the  mountains  know  well  that  these  innocent 
people  will  not  reveal  the  mysteries  of  their 
ancient  kingdom,  "the  reign  of  Chaos  and 
Old  Night:"  only  1  learned  that  this  dread- 
ful road,  dividing  again,  leads  one  branch  to 
Ravenglas,  and  the  other  to  Hawkshead. 

For  me,  I  went  no  farther  than  the  far- 
mer's (better  than  four  miles  from  Keswick) 
at  Grange;  his  mother  and  he  brought  us 
butter  that  Siserah  would  have  jumped  at, 
though  not  in  a  lordly  dish,  bowls  of  milk, 
thin  oaten  cakes  and  ale;  and  we  had  car- 
ried a  cold  tongue  thither  with  us.  Our  fir- 
mer was  him«elf  the  man  that  last  year  plun- 
dered the  eagle's  eyrie;  all  the  dale  are  up 
in  arms  on  such  an  occasion,  for  they  lose 
abundance  of  lambs  yearly,  not  to  mention 
hares,  partridges,  grouse,  &c.  He  was  let 
down  from  the  cliff  in  ropes  to  the  shelf  of 
the  rock  on  which  the  nest  was  bnilt,  the 
people  above  shouting  and  hollowing  to  fright 
the  old  birds,  which  flew  screaming  round, 
but  did  not  dare  to  attack  him.  He  brought 
off  the  eaglet  (for  there  is  rarely  more 
than  one)  and  an  addle  egg.  The  nest  was 
roundish,  and  more  than  a  yard  over,  made 


188  Cray's  letters. 

of  twigs  twisted  together.  Seldom  a  year 
passes  but  they  take  the  brood  or  eggs, 
and  sometimes  they  shoot  one,  sometimes  the 
other  parent;  but  the  survivor  has  alwaj^s 
fonnd  a  mate  (probably  in  Ireland)  and  they 
breed  near  the  old  place.  By  his  descrip- 
tion, J  learn  that  this  species  is  the  Erne^ 
the  vulture  Albicilla  of  Linnaeus,  in  his  last 
edition,  (but  in  yours  Falco  Albicilla)  so  con- 
sult him  and  Pennant  about  it. 

We  returned  leisurely  home  the  ivay  we 
came;  but  saw  a  new  landscape;  the  features 
indeed  were  the  same  in  part,  but  many 
new  ones  were  disclosed  by  the  mid-day 
sun,  and  the  tints  were  entirely  changed: 
take  notice  this  was  the  best,  or  perhaps  the 
only  day  forgoing  up  Skiddaw,  but  1  thought 
it  better  employed;  it  was  perfectly  serene, 
and  hot  as  midsummer. 

In  the  evening  I  walked  alone  down  to 
the  lake  by  the  side  of  Crow-park  after  sun- 
set, and  saw  the  solemn  colouring  of  night 
draw  on,  the  last  gleam  of  sunshine  fading 
away  on  the  hill-tops,  the  deep  serene  of 
the  waters,  and  the  long  shadows  of  the 
mountains  thrown  across  them,  till  they 
nearly  touched  the  hithermost  shore.  At  a 
distance  were  heard  the  murmurs  of  many 


GRAY  S  LETTERS.  189 

water- fills,  not  audible  in  the  day-time;  I 
wished  for  the  moon,  but  she  was  dark  to  me 
and  silent. 

Hid  in  her  vacant  interlunar  cave. 

Oct.  4.  I  walked  to  Crow-park,  now  a 
rough  pasture,  once  a  glade  of  ancient  oaks, 
whose  large  roots  still  remain  on  the  ground, 
but  nothing  has  sprung  from  them.  If  one  sin- 
gle tree  had  remained,  this  would  have  been 
an  unparalleled  spot;  and  Smith  judged 
right,  when  he  took  his  print  of  the  lake 
from  hence,  for  it  is  a  gentle  eminence, 
not  too  high,  on  the  very  margin  of  the 
water,  and  commanding  it  from  end  to  end, 
looking  full  into  the  gorge  of  Borrowdale. 
I  prefer  it  even  to  Cockshut-hill,  which 
lies  beside  it,  and  to  which  I  walked  in 
the  afternoon;  it  is  covered  with  young 
trees  both  sown  and  planted,  oak,  spruce, 
Scotch-f^r,  kc.  all  which  thrive  wonderfully. 
There  is  an  easy  ascent  to  the  top,  and 
the  view  far  preferable  to  that  on  Castle-hill 
(which  you  remember)  because  this  is  lower 
and  nearer  to  the  lake:  for  I  find  all  points, 
that  are  much  elevated,  spoil  the  beauty 
of  the  valley,  and  make  its  parts,  which 
are     not     large,    look    poor    and    diminu- 


190  gray's  letters. 

live.*  While  1  was  here  a  little  shower 
fell,  red  clouds  came  marching  up  the  hills 
from  the  east,  and  part  of  a  bright  rain- 
bow seemed  to  rise  along  the  side  of  Cas- 
tle-hill. 

From  hence  1  got  to  the  Parsonage  a  lit- 
tle before  sun-set,  and  saw  in  my  glass  a 
picture,  that  if  I  could  transmit  to  you,  and 
tix  it  in  all  the  softness  of  its  living  colours, 
would  fairly  sell  for  a  thousand  pounds. 
This  is  the  sweetest  scene  1  can  yet  discover 
in  point  of  pastoral  beauty;  the  rest  are  in  a 
sublimer  style. 

Oct.  5.  I  walked  through  the  meadows 
and  corn-fields  to  the  Derwent,  and  cross- 
ing it  went  up  How-hill;  it  looks  along  Bas- 
singthwaite-water,  and  sees  at  the  same  time 

•  The  picturesque  point  is  always  thus  low  ia  all  prospects  ;  a 
trutk,  which  though  the  landscape  painter  knows,  he  cannot  silwayS 
observe ;  since  the  patron  who  emplo)  s  him  to  lake  a  view  of  his 
place,  usvially  carries  him  to  some  elevation  for  that  purjiose,  in 
order,  I  suppose,  that  he  may  have  more  of  him  for  his  money. 
Yet  when  1  say  this,  I  would  not  be  thought  to  mean  that  a  draw- 
ing should  be  made  from  the  lowest  poim  possible ;  as  for  in- 
stance, in  this  very  vi^w,  from  the  lake  itself,  for  then  a  fore-ground 
would  be  wanting.  On  this  account,  when  I  sailed  on  Derwent- 
■water,  I  did  not  receive  so  much  pleasure  from  the  superb  amphi- 
theatre of  mountains  around  me,  as  when,  like  Mr.  Gray,  I  tra- 
versed its  mar^u ;  and  I  therefore  think  be  did  not  lose  much  by 
not  taking  boat. 


gray's  letters.  191 

the  course  of  the  river,  and  a  part  of  the 
upper-lake,    with   a  full   view  of  Skiddavv; 
then   I   took  my   way  through    Portingskall 
village  to  the  park,  a  hill  so  called,  covered 
entirely  with  wood;  it  is  all  a  mass  of  crum- 
bling slate.     Passed  round  its  foot  between 
the  trees  and  the   edge  of  the  water,   and 
came  to  a  peninsula  that  juts  out  into  the 
lake,  and  looks  along  it  both   ways;  in  front 
rises  Walla  crag  and  Castle  hiil,   the   town, 
the  road   lo  Penrith,   Skiddaw,    and   Saddle- 
back. Returning,  met  a  brisk  and  cold  north- 
eastern bl.ist  that  ruffled  all  the  surface  of 
the  lake,  and  made  it  rise    in    little  waves 
that  broke  at  the  foot  of  the  wood.      After 
dinner    walked   up    the   Penrith    road    two 
miles,  or  more,  and   turning  into    a    corn- 
field to  the  right,    called  Castle-rig,  saw  a 
Druid-circle  of  large  stones,   108  feet  in  di- 
ameter, the  biggest  not  eight  feet  high,   but 
most  of  them  still  erect;  they  are    lifty   in 
number.     The  valley  of  St.  John's  appear- 
ed in  sight,  and  the  summits   of   Catchide- 
cam  (called  by  Camden,  Casticand)  and  Hel- 
vellyn,  said  to  be  as  high  as  Skiddaw,  and  to 
rise  from  a  much  higher  base. 

Oct.  6.  ♦Went  in  a  chaise  eight  miles 
along  the  east-side  of  Bassingthwaite  water 
to  Ousebridge  (pronounced  Ews-bridge);  the 


1^2  gray's  letters. 

road  in  some  part  made  and  very  good,  the 
rest  slippery  and  dangerous  cart-road,  or 
narrow  rug:ged  lanes,  but  no  precipices;  it 
runs  directly  along  the  foot  of  Skiddavv;  op- 
posite to  Widhopebrows,  clothed  to  the  top 
with  wood,  a  very  beautiful  view  opens 
down  to  the  lake,  which  is  narrower  and 
longer  than  that  of  Keswick,  less  broken 
into  bays,  and  without  islands.*  At  the  foot 
of  it,  a  few  paces  from  the  brink,  gently 
sloping  upwards,  stands  Armathwaite  in  a 
thick  grove  of  Scotch  firs,  commanding  a 
noble  view  directly  up  the  lake:  at  a  small 
distance  behind  the  house  is  a  large  extent 
of  wood,  and  still  behind  this  a  ridge  of 
cultivated  hills,  on  which,  according  to  the 
Keswick  proverb,  the  sun  always  shines. 
The  inhabitants  here,  on  the  contrary,  call 
the  vale  of  Derwentwater,  the  DeviVn  Cham- 
ber-pot, and  pronounce  the  name  of  Skiddaw- 
fell,  which  terminates  here,  with  a  sort  of 
terror  and  aversion.  Armathwaite  house  is 
a  modern  fabric,  not  large,  and  built  of  dark- 
red  stone,  belonging  to  Mr.  Spedding,  whose 
grandfather  was  steward  to    old   sir   James 

*  It  is  somewhat  extraordinary  that  Mr.  Gray  omitted  to  men^ 
tion  the  islands  on  Derwentwater ;  one  of  which,  I  think  they  call 
it  Vicar's  Island,  makes  a  principal  object  in  the  scene.  See 
Smith's  View  of  Derwentwater. 


193 

Lovvther,  and  bought  this  estate  of  the  Hi- 
mers.  The  sky  was  overcast  and  the  wind 
cool;  so,  after  dining  at  a  public-house, 
which  stands  here  near  the  bridge,  (that 
crosses  the  Derwent  just  where  it  issues 
from  the  lake)  and  sauntering  a  little  by  the 
water-side,  I  came  home  again.  The  turn- 
pike is  finished  from  Cockermouth  hither, 
five  miles,  and  is  carrying  on  to  Penrith:  se- 
veral little  showers  to-day.  A  man  came  in, 
who  said  there  was  snow  on  Cross-fell  this 
morning. 

Oct,  7.  I  walked  in  the  morning  to  Crow- 
park,  and  in  the  evening  up  Penrith  road. 
The  clouds  came  rolling  up  the  mountains 
all  round  very  dark,  yet  the  moon  shone  at 
intervals.  It  was  too  damp  to  go  towards 
the  lake.  To-morrow  1  mean  to  bid  fare- 
well to  Keswick. 

Botany  might  be  studied  here  to  great  ad- 
vantage at  another  season,  because  of  the 
great  variety  of  soils  and  elevations,  all  lying 
within  a  small  compass.  I  observed  nothing 
but  several  curious  lichens,  and  plenty  oi, 
gale  or  Dutch  myrtle  perfuming  the  bor- 
ders of  the  lake.  This  year  the  Wadd- 
raine  had  been  opened,  which  is-done  once 
in  five  years;  it  is  taken  out  in  lumps  some- 
times as  big  as  a  man's  fist,  and  will  undergo 

VOL.  IV.  29 


194  gray's  letters. 

no  preparation  by  fire,  not  being  fusible; 
when  it  is  pure,  soft,  black,  and  close-grain- 
ed, it  is  worth  sometimes  thirty  shillings  a 
pound.  There  are  no  char  ever  taken  in 
these  lakes,  but  plenty  in  Buttermere  water, 
which  lies  a  little  way  north  of  Borrow- 
dale,  about  Martinmas,  which  are  potted 
here.  They  sow  chiefly  oats  and  bigg  here, 
which  are  now  cutting  and  still  on  the 
ground;  the  rains  have  done  much  hurt: 
yet  observe,  the  soil  is  so  thin  and  light, 
that  no  day  has  passed  in  which  I  could  not 
walk  out  with  ease,  and  you  know  I  am  no 
lover  of  dirt.  Fell  mutton  is  now  in  season 
for  about  six  weeks;  it  grows  fat  on  the 
mountains,  and  nearly  resembles  venison. 
Excellent  pike  and  perch,  here  called  bass; 
trout  is  out  of  season;  partridge  in  great 
plenty. 

Oct,  8.  I  left  Keswick  and  took  the  Am- 
bleside road  in  a  gloomy  morning;  and  about 
two  miles  from  the  town  mounted  an  emi- 
nence called  Castle-rig,  and  the  sun  break- 
ing out,  discovered  the  most  enchanting 
view  I  have  yet  seen  of  the  whole  valley 
behind  me,  the  two  lakes,  the  river,  the 
mountains,  all  in  their  glory;  so  that  I  had 
almost  a  mind  to  have  gone  back  again. 
The  road  in  some  few  parts  is  not  yet  com- 


gray's  letters.  196 

pleted,  yet  good  country  road,  through 
sound  but  narrow  and  stony  lanes,  very  safe 
in  broad^ay-light.  This  is  the  case  about 
Cause\va^foot,  and  among  Naddle-fells  to 
Lancwaite.  The  vale  you  go  in  has  little 
breadth;  the  mountains  are  vast  and  rocky, 
the  fields  little  and  poor,  and  the  inhabitants 
are  now  making  hay,  and  see  not  the  sun  by 
tvvo  hours  iji  a  day  so  long  as  at  Keswick. 
Came  to  the  foot  of  Helvellyn,  along  which 
runs  an  excellent  road,  looking  down  from  a 
little  height  on  Lee's  water,  (called  also 
Thirl-meer,  or  Wiborn  water)  and  soon  de- 
scending on  its  margin.  The  lake  looks 
black  from  its  depth,  and  from  the  gloom  of 
the  vast  crags  that  scowl  over  it,  though 
really  clear  as  glass;  it  is  narrow,  and  about 
three  miles  long,  resembling  a  river  in  its 
course;  little  shining  torrents  hurry  down 
the  rocks  to  join  it,  but  not  a  bush  to  over- 
shadow them,  or  cover  their  march;  all  is 
rock  and  loose  stones  up  to  the  very  brow, 
which  lies  so  near  your  way,  that  not  above 
half  the  height  of  Helvellyn  can  be  seen. 

Next  I  passed  by  the  little  chapel  of 
Wiborn,  out  of  which  the  Sunday  congrega- 
tion were  then  issuing;  soon  after  a  beck 
near  Dunmeil-raise,  when  I  entered  West- 
moreland a  second  time;  and  now  began  to 


196  gray's  letters. 

see  Holmcrag,  distinguished  from  its  rugged 
neighbours,  not  so  much  by  its  height,  as  by 
the  strange  broken  outhnes  of  it*  tog,  like 
some  gigantic  building  demolishea,  and  the 
stones  that  composed  it  flung  across  each 
other  in  wild  confusion.  Just  beyond  it- 
opens  one  of  the  sweetest  landscapes  that 
art  ever  attempted  to  imitate.  The  bosom 
of  the  mountains  spreading  here  into  a  broad 
basin  discovers  in  the  midst  Grasmere  water; 
its  margin  is  hollowed  into  small  bays,  with 
bold  eminences;  some  of  rock,  some  of  soft 
turf,  that  half  conceal,  and  vary  the  figure 
of  the  little  lake  they  command;  from  the 
shore,  a  low  promontory  pushes  itself  far 
into  the  water,  and  on  it  stands  a  white  vil- 
lage with  the  parish  church  rising  in  the 
midst  of  it:  hanging  enclosures,  corn  fields, 
and  meadows  green  as  an  emerald,  with 
their  trees  and  hedges,  and  cattle,  fill  up  the 
whole  space  from  the  edge  of  the  water: 
and  just  opposite  to  you  is  a  large  farm- 
house at  the  bottom  of  a  steep  smooth  lawn, 
embosomed  in  old  woods,  which  climb  half- 
way up  the  mountain's  side,  and  discover 
above  them  a  broken  line  of  crags  that 
crown  the  scene.  Not  a  single  red  tile',  no 
flaring  gentleman's  house,  or  garden  walls, 
break  in   upon  the  repose  of  this  little   un- 


gray's  letters.  197 

suspected  paradise;  but  all  is  peace,  rustici- 
ty, and  happy  poverty,  in  its  neatest  most 
becoming  attire. 

The  road  winds  here  over  Grasmere-hil), 
whose  rocks  soon  conceal  the  water  from 
your  sight;  yet  it  is  continued  along  behind 
them,  and,  contracting  itself  to  a  river,  com- 
municates with  Ridale  water,  another  small 
lake,  but  of  inferior  size  and  beauty;  it 
seems  shallow  too,  for  large  patches  of  reeds 
appear  pretty  far  witljin  it.  Into  this  vale 
the  road  descends.  On  the  opposite  banks 
large  and  ancient  woods  mount  up  the  hills; 
and  just  to  the  left  of  our  way  stands  Ridale- 
hall,  the  family-seat  of  sir  Michael  Fleming, 
a  large  old-fashioned  fabric,  surrounded  with 
wood.  Sir  Michael  is  now  on  his  travels, 
and  all  this  timber,  far  and  wide,  belongs  to 
him.  Near  the  house  rises  a  huge  crag,  call- 
ed Ridale-head,  which  is  said  to  command  a 
full  view  of  Wynander-mere,  and  I  doubt 
it  not;  for  within  a  mile  that  great  lake  is 
visible,  even  from  the  road:  as  to  going  up 
the  crag,  one  might  as  well  go  up  Skiddaw. 

I  now  reached  Ambleside,  eighteen  miles 
from  Keswick,  meaning  to  lie  there;  but,  on 
looking  into  the  best  bed-chamber,  dark  and 
damp  as  a  cellar,  grew  delicate,  gave  up 
Wynander-mere  in  despair,  and  resolved   1 


j98  GRAY  S  LETTERS. 

would  go  on  to  Kendal  directly,  fourteen 
miles  farther.^  The  road  in  general  line 
turnpike,  but  some  parts  (about  three  miles 
in  all)  not  made,  yet  without  danger. 

For  this  determination  1  was  unexpected- 
ly well  rewarded:  for  the  afternoon  was  hne, 
and  the  road,  for  the  space  of  full  five  miles, 
ran  along  the  side  of  Wynander-mere,  with 
delicious  views  across  it,  and  almost  from 
one  end  to  the  other.  It  is  ten  miles  m 
length,   and    at  most   a    mile    over,  resem- 

*  By  not  staying  a  little  at  Ambit  side,  Mr.  Gray  lost  the  sight 
of  two  most  magnificent  cascades ;  tlie  one  not  above  l.alf  a  mile 
^behind  the  inn,  the  other  down  RidaU-crag,  where  sir  Michael 
Fleming  is  now  making  a  path-way  to  the  top  of  it  These^  when 
I  saw  them,  were  in  full  towent,  whereas  Lawdoor  water-fall, 
H  hich  I  visited  in  the  evening  of  the  very  same  day,  was  almost 
Mithout  a  stream.  Hence  1  conclude  that  this  distinguished  fea- 
ture in  the  vale  of  Kesv\  ick,  is,  like  most  noithern  rivers,  only  in 
high  beauty  duiing  bad  weather.  But  his  greattst  loss  was  in  not 
seeing  a  small  water-fall  visible  only  through  the  window  of  a 
ruined  summer-house  in  sjr  Micliael's  orf.hard.  Here  Nature  has 
jierfonned  every  thing  in  little  that  she  usually  execi  tts  on  her 
largest"^  scale ;  and  on  that  account,  like  the  miniature  painter, 
seems  to  have  finished  every  part  of  it  in  a  studied  maimer  ;  not  a 
little  fragment  of  rock  thrown  into  the  basin,  not  a  single  stem  of 
brushwood  that  starts  from  its  ciaggy  sides  but  has  its  picturL-sque 
meaning  :  and  the  little  central  stream  dashing  down  a  cleft  ot  the 
darkest-coloured  stone,  i^roduces  an  eftett  of  light  and  sii;idow 
becutiful  beyond  dtscriptioji.  This  little  theatrical  scene  might 
be  painted  as  large  as  the  original,  on  a  canvass  not  bigger  than 
those  which  are  usually  dropped  in  the  Opera-house. 


199 

bling  the  course  of  some  vast  and  magnifi- 
cent river;  but  no  flat  marshy  grounds,  no 
osier-beds,  or  patches  of  scrubby  plantations 
on  its  banks:  at  the  head  two  valleys  open 
among  the  mountains;  one,  that  by  which 
we  came  down,  the  other  Langsledale,  in 
which  Wry-nose  and  Hard-knot,  two  great 
mountains,  rise  above  the  rest:  from  thence 
the  fells  visibly  sink,  and  soften  along  its 
sides;  sometimes  they  run  into  it  (but  with 
a  gentle  declivity)  in  their  own  dark  and 
natural  complexion:  oftener  they  are  green 
and  cultivated,  with  farms  interspersed,  and 
round  eminences,  on  the  border  covered 
with  trees:  towards  the  south,  it  seemed  to 
break  into  larger  bays,  with  several  islands 
and  a  wider  extent  of  cultivation.  The  way 
rises  continually,  till  at  a  place  called  Orrest- 
head,  it  turns  south-east,  losing  sight  of  the 
water. 

Passed  by  Ing's-Chapel  and  Staveley,  but 
I  can  say  no  farther;  for  the  dusk  of  even- 
ing coming  on,  I  entered  Kendal  almost  in 
the  dark,  and  could  distinguish  only  a 
shadow  of  the  castle  on  a  hill,  and  tenter- 
grounds  spread  far  and  wide  round  the  town, 
which  I  mistook  for  houses.  My  inn  prom- 
ised sadl}',  having  two  wooden  galleries,  like 
Scotland,  in  front  of  it:  it  was  indeed  an  old 


200  GRAV'S    LETTERS. 

ill-contrived  house,  but  kept  by  civil  sensi- 
ble people;  so  I  stayed  two  nights  nith 
them,  and  fared  and  slept  very  comfortably. 
Oct.  9.  The  air  mild  as  summer,  all  corn 
off  the  ground,  and  the  sky-larks  singing 
aloud  (by  the  way,  I  saw  not  one  at  Kes- 
wick, perhaps  because  the  place  abounds  in 
birds  of  prey).  1  went  up  the  castle-hill; 
the  town  consists  chietly  of  three  nearly 
parallel  streets,  almost  a  mile  long;  except 
these,  all  the  other  houses  seem  as  if  they 
had  been  dancing  a  country-dance,  and  were 
out:  there  they  stand  back  to  back,  corner 
to  corner,  some  up  hill,  some  down,  without 
intent  or  meaning.  Along  by  their  side 
runs  a  fine  brisk  stream,  over  which  are 
three  stone  bridges;  the  buildings,  (a  few 
comfortable  houses  excepted)  are  mean,  of 
stone,  and  covered  with  a  bad  rough  cast. 
Near  the  end  of  the  town  stands  a  hand- 
some house  of  colonel  Wilson's,  and  adjoin- 
ing to  it  the  church,  a  very  large  Gothic 
fabric,  with  a  square  tower;  it  has  no  par- 
ticular ornaments  but  double  isles,  and  at 
the  east-end  four  chapels  or  choirs;  one  of 
the  Parrs,  another  of  the  Stricklands;  the 
third  is  the  proper  choir  of  the  church,  and 
the  fourth  of  the  Bellinghams,  a  family  now 
extinct.     There  is   an  altar-tomb  of  one   of 


gray's  letters.  201 

them  dated  1577,  with  a  flat  brass,  arms  and 
quarterings;  and  in  the  window  their  arms 
alone,  arg.  a  hunting-horn,  sab.  strung  gules. 
In  the  Stricklands'  chapel  several  modern 
monuments,  and  another  old  altar-torab,  not 
belonging  to  the  family:  on  the  side  of  it  a 
fess  dancetty  between  ten  billets,  Deincourt. 
In  the  Parrs'  chapel  is  a  third  altar  tomb  in 
the  corner,  no  tigure  or  insf^ription,  but  on 
the  side,  cut  in  stone,  an  escutcheon  of  Ross 
of  Kendal,  (three  water-budgets)  quartering 
Parr  (two  bars  in  abordure  engrailed);  2dly, 
an  escutcheon,  vaire,  a  fess  for  Marmion; 
3dly,  an  escutcheon,  three  chevronels 
braced,  and  a  chief  (which  I  take  for  Fitz- 
hugh):  at  the  foot  is  an  escutcheon,  sur- 
rounded with  the  garter,  bearing  ^oos  and 
Parr  quarterly,  quartering  the  other  two 
before-mentioned.  I  have  no  books  to  look 
in,  therefore  cannot  say  v/hether  this  is  the 
Lord  Parr  of  Kendal,  queen  Catharine's 
father,  or  her  brother  the  marquis  of  North- 
ampton: perhaps  it  is  a  cenotaph  for  the  lat- 
ter, who  was  buried  at  Warwick  in  1571. 
The  remains  of  the  castle  are  seated  on  a 
fine  hill  on  the  side  of  the  river  opposite  the 
town;  almost  the  whole  enclosure  of  the 
walls  remains,  with  four  towers,  two  square 
and  two  round,  but  their  upper  part  and  em- 


202  gray's  letters. 

battlements  are  demolished;  it  is  of  rough 
stone  and  cement,  without  any  ornament  or 
arms,  round,  enclosing  a  court  of  like  form, 
and  surrounded  by  a  moat;  nor  ever  could 
it  have  been  larger  than  it  is,  for  there  are 
no  traces  of  outworks  There  is  a  good 
view  of  the  town  and  river,  with  a  fertile 
open  valley  through  which  it  winds. 

After  dinner  I  went  along  the  Miltbrop 
turnpike,  four  miles,  to  see  the  falls,  or 
force,  of  the  river  Kent;  came  to  Sizergh, 
(pronounced  Siser)  and  turned  down  a  lane 
to  the  left.  This  seat  of  the  Stricklands,  an 
old  Catholic  family,  is  an  ancient  hall-house, 
with  a  very  large  tower  embattled;  the  rest 
of  the  buildings  added  to  it  are  of  later  date, 
but  all  is  white,  and  seen  to  advantage  on  a 
back  ground  of  old  trees;  there  is  a  small 
park  also  well  wooded.  Opposite  to  this, 
turning  to  the  left,  I  soon  came  to  the  river; 
it  works  its  way  in  a  narrow  and  deep  rocky 
channel  overhung  with  trees.  The  calm- 
ness and  brightness  of  the  evening,  the  roar 
of  the  waters,  and  the  thumping  of  huge 
hammers  at  an  iron-forge  not  far  distant, 
made  it  a  singular  walk;  but  as  to  the  falls, 
(for  there  are  two)  they  are  not  four  feet 
high.  I  went  on,  down  to  the  forge,  and 
saw  the  demons  at  work  bv  the  light  of  their 


gray's  letters.  203 

own  fires:  the  iron  is  brought  in  pigs  to  Mil- 
throp  by  sea  from  SccUand,  kc.  and  is  here 
beat  into  bars  and  plates.  Two  miles  fur- 
ther, at  Lev  ens,  is  ihe  scat  of  loiu  Suffolk, 
where  he  sometimes  passes  the  summer:  it 
was  a  favourite  place  of  his  late  countess; 
but  this  I  did  not  see. 

Oct.  10.  I  proceeded  by  Burton  to  Lan- 
caster, twenty-two  miles:  very  good  country, 
well  enclosed  and  wooded,  with  some  com- 
mon intersjiersed.  Passed  at  the  foot  of 
Farlton-knot,  a  high  fell  four  miles  north  of 
Lancaster;  on  a~  rising  ground  called  Botrlton 
(pronounced  Bouton)  we  had  a  full  view  of 
Carimell-sands,  with  here  and  there  a  pas- 
senger riding  over  them  (it  being  low  water): 
the  points  of  Furness  shooting  far  into  the 
sea,  and  lofty  mountains,  partly  covered 
with  clouds,  extending  north  of  them.  Lan- 
caster also  appeared  very  conspicuous  and 
fine;  for  its  most  distinguished  features,  the 
castle  and  church,  mounted  on  a  green  emi- 
nence, were  all  that  could  be  seen.  Wo 
is  me!  when  I  got  thither,  it  was  the  second 
day  of  their  fair;  the  inn,  in  the  principal 
street,  was  a  great  old  gloomy  house,  full  of 
people;  but  I  found  tolerable  quarters,  and 
even  slept  two  nights  in  peace. 


204  gray's  letters. 

In  R  fine  afternoon  I  ascended  the  castle- 
hill;  it  trikes  up  the  higher  top  of  the  emi- 
nence on  which  it  stands,  and  is  irregularly 
round,  encompassed  with  a  deep  moat:  in 
front,  towards  the  town,  is  a  magnificent 
Gothic  gateway,  lofty  and  huge;  the^ver- 
han<j:ing  battlements  are  supportei^by  a 
triple  range  of  corbels,  the  intervals  pierced 
through,  and  showing  the  day  from  above. 
On  its  top  rise  light  watch-towers  of  small 
height.  It  opens  below  with  a  grand  point- 
ed arch:  over  this  is  a  wTought  tabernacle, 
doubtless  once  containing  its  founder's  figure; 
on  one  side  a  shield  of  France  acmi-quar- 
tered  with  England;  on  the  other '♦he  same^, 
with  a  label,  ermine,  for  John  of  Gaunt,  duke 
of  Lancaster.  This  opens  to  a  court  with- 
in, which  1  did  not  much  care  to  enter,  be- 
ing the  county-gaol,  and  full  of  prisoners, 
both  criminols  and  debtors.  From  this  gate- 
way the  walls  continue  and  join  it  to  a  vast 
square  tower  of  great  height,  the  lower 
part  at  least  of  remote  antiijuity;  for  it  has 
small  round-headed  lights  with  plain  short 
pillars  on  each  side  of  them:  tiiere  is  a  third 
tower,  also  square  and  of  less  dimensions. 
This  is  all  the  castle.  Near  it,  and  but 
little  lower,  sta-yi^i^  the  church,  a  large  and 
plain  Gothic  fabriv ,  the  high  square  tower 


gray's  letters.  2©5 

at  the  we3t  end  has  been  rebuilt  of  late 
years,  but  nearly  in  the  same  st3'le:  there 
are  no  ornaments  of  arms  >  &c.  any  where  to 
be  seen;  nithin,  it  is  lightsome  and  spacious, 
but  not  one  monument  of  antiquity,  or  piece 
of  painted  glass,  is  left.  From  the  church- 
yard there  is  an  extensive  sea-view,  (for 
now  the  tide  had  almost  covered  the  sands, 
and  tilled  the  river)  and  besides  the  greatest 
part  of  Furness,  1  could  distinguish  Peel- 
castle  on  the  isle  of  Fowdrey,  which  lies  off 
its  southeifo  extremity.  The  town  is  built 
on  the  slo^  and  at  the  foot  of  the  castle- 
hill,  mor^i^n  twice  the  bigness  of  Auk- 
land,  witlimiLtny  neat  buildings  of  white  stone, 
but  a  little  disorderly  in  their  position,  and, 
*'ad  Hbitum,"  like  Kendal:  many  also  ex- 
tend below  on  the  keys  by  the  river- side, 
where  a  number  of  ships  were  moored, 
some  of  them  three-masted  vessels  decked 
out  with  their  colours  in  honour  of  the  fair. 
Here  is  a  good  bridge  of  four  arches  ovej- 
the  Lune,  that  runs,  when  the  tide  is  out, 
in  two  streams  divided  by  a  bed  of  graveJ, 
which  is  not  covered  but  in  spring-tides; 
below  the  town  it  widens  to  near  the  breadth 
of  the  Thames  at  London,  and  meets  the  sea 
at  five  or  six  miles  distance  to. south-west. 


206  gray's  letters. 

Oct.  11.  I  crossed  the  river  and  walked 
over  a  peninsula,  three  niiles,  to  the  village 
of  Pooton,  which  stands  on  the  beach.  An 
old  fisherman  mending  his  nets  (while  1  in- 
quired about  the  danger  of  passing  those 
sands)  told  me,  in  his  dialect,  a  moving  story; 
how  a  brother  of  the  trade,  a  cockier,  as  he 
styled  him,  driving  a  little  cart  with  two 
daughters  (women  grown)  in  it,  and  his  wife 
on  horseback  following,  ^ei  out  one  day  to 
pass  the  seven-mile  sands,  as  they  had  fre- 
quently been  used  to  do,  (for  no  body  in  the 
village  knew  them  better  than  the  old  man 
did);  when  they  were  about  halfway  over,  a 
thick  fog  rose,  and  as  they  advanced  they 
found  the  water  much  deeper  than  they  ex- 
pected: the  old  man  was  puzzled;  he  stop- 
ped, and  said  he  would  go  a  little  way  to  find 
some  mark  he  was  acquainted  with;  they 
stayed  awhile  for  him,  but  in  vain;  they 
called  aloud,  but  no  reply:  at  last  the  young 
women  pressed  their  mother  to  think  where 
they  were,  and  go  on;  she  would  not  leave 
the  place;  but  wandered  about  forlorn  aiid 
amazed;  she  would  not  quit  her  horse  and 
get  into  the  cart  with  them:  they  determin- 
ed, after  much  time  wasted,  to  turn  back, 
and  give  themselves  up  to  the  guidance  of 
their   horses.     The    old   woman  was   soon 


gray's  letters.  207 

washed  off,  and  perished;  the  poor  girls 
clung  close  to  their  cart,  and  the  horse, 
sometimes  wading  and  sometimes  swimming, 
brought  them  back  to  land  alive,  but  sense- 
less with  tenor  and  distress,  and  unable  for 
many  dajs  to  give  any  account  of  themselves. 
The  bodies  of  their  parents  were  found  next 
ebb;  that  of  the  father  a  very  few  paces  dis- 
tant from  the  spot  where  he  had  left  them. 

In  the  afternoon  I  wandered  about  the 
town,  and  by  the  key,  till  it  grew  dark. 

Oct.  12.  I  set  out  for  Settle  by  a  fine 
turnpike-road,  twenty-nine  miles,  through  a 
rich  and  beautiful  enclosed  country,  diversi- 
fied with  frequent  villages  and  churches, 
very  unequal  ground;  and  on  the  left  the 
river  Lune  winding  in  a  deep  vallej',  its 
hanging  banks  clothed  with  fine  woods, 
through  which  you  catch  long  reaches  of 
the  water,  as  the  road  winds  about  at  a  con- 
siderable height  above  it.  In  the  most  pic- 
turesque part  of  the  way,  I  passed  the  park 
belonging  to  Ihe  Hon.  Mr.  Clifford,  a  Catho- 
lic. The  grounds  between  him  and  the 
river  are   indeed  charming;*   the  house  is 

•  This  scene  opens  just  thi-ee  miles  from  Lancaster,  on  what  is 
called  the  Queen's  Road.  To  see  the  view  in  perfection,  you  riust 
go  into  a  field  on  the  left.  Here  Ingleborough,  behind  a  rai'iety 
of  lesser  luouBtains,  makes  the  back-ground  of  the  prospect :  on 


208  gray's  letters. 

ordinary,  and  the  park  nothing  but  a  rocky 
fell  scattered  over  with  ancient  hawthorns. 
Next  I  came  to  Hornby,  a  little  town  on  the 
river  Wanning,  over  which  a  handsome 
bridge  is  now  building;  the  castle,  in  a 
lordly  situation,  attracted  me,  so  I  walked  up 
the  hill  to  it:  first  presents  itself  a  large 
white  ordinary  sashed  gentlem-^n's  house, 
and  behind  it  rises  the  ancient  Keep,  built 
by  Edward  Stanley,  lord  Monteagle.  He 
died  about  1523,  in  King  Henry  the  Eighth's 
time.  It  is  now  only  a  shell,  the  rafters 
are  laid  within  it  as  for  flooring.  1  went  up 
a  winding  stone-stair-case  in  one  corner  to 
the  leads,  and  at  the  angle  is  a  single  hexa- 
gon watch-tower,  rising  some  feet  higher, 
fitted  up  in  the  taste  of  a  modern  summer- 
house,  with  sash-windows  in  gilt  frames, 
a  stucco  cupola,  and  on  the  top  a  vast  gilt 
eagle,  built  by  Mr.  Charteris,  the  present 
possessor.  He  is  the  second  son  of  the 
earl  of  Wemvs,  brother  to  the  lord  Elcho, 

each  hand  of  the  middle  distance,  rise  two  sloping  hilh  ;  the  left 
clothed  with  thick  woods,  the  right  with  variegated  rock  and  hec- 
\)age  :  between  them,  in  the  most  futile  of  valleys,  the  Lune  ser- 
pentizes  for  many  a  mile,  and  comts  forth  ample  and  clear, 
through  a  well-wixnled  and  richly  pastured  fore-ground.  Every 
feature,  which  constitutes  a  perfect  landscapt  of  the  extensive  sort' 
*s  here  not  only  boldly  marked,  but  also  in  its  best  |H>sition. 


gray's  letters.  209 

and  grandson  to  colonel  Charteris,  whose 
name  he  bears. 

From  the  leads  of  the  tower  there  is  a 
tme  view  of  the  country  round,  and  much 
wood  near  the  castle.  Ingleborough,  which 
I  had  seen  before  distinctly  at  Lancaster  to 
nortb-east,  wasnow  completely  wrapped  in 
clouds,  all  but  its  summit;  which  might  have 
been  easily  mistaken  for  a  long  black  cloud 
too,  fraught  with  an  approaching  storm. 
Now  our  road  began  gradually  to  mount 
towards  the  Apennine,  the  trees  growing 
less  and  thinner  of  leaves,  till  we  came  to 
Ingleton,  eighteen  miles;  it  is  a  pretty  vil- 
lage, situated  very  high,  and  yet  in  a  valley 
at  the  foot  of  that  huge  monster  of  nature, 
Ingleborough:  two  torrents  cross  it,  with 
great  stones  rolled  along  their  beds  instead 
of  water;  and  over  them  are  flung  two  hand- 
some arches.  The  nipping  air,  though  the 
afternoon  was  growing  \ery  bright,  now 
taught  us  we  were  in  Craven;  the  road  was 
all  up  and  down,  though  no  where  very 
steep;  to  the  left  were  mountain-tops,  to  the 
right  a  wide  valley,  all  enclosed  ground,  and 
beyond  it  high  hills  again.  In  approaching 
Settle,  the  crags  on  the  left  drew  nearer  to 
our  way,  till  we  descended  Brunton-brow 
into  a  cheerful  valley  (though  thin  of  trees) 

VOL.   IV.  •  30 


210 

to  Giggleswick,  a  village  with  a  small  piece 
cf  water  by  its  side,  covered  over  with 
coots;  near  it  a  church,  which  belongs  also 
to  Settle;  and  half  a  mile  farther,  having 
passed  the  Kibble  over  a  bridge,  I  arrived 
there;  it  is  a  small  market-town  standing 
directly  under  a  rocky  fell;  there  are  not  in 
it  above  a  dozen  good-looking  houses;  the 
rest  are  old  and  low,  with  little  wooden  por- 
ticos in  front.  My  inn  pleased  me  much, 
(though  small)  for  the  neatness  and  civility 
of  the  good  woman  that  kept  it;  so  I  lay 
there  two  nights,  and  went, 

Oct.  13.  To  visit  Gordale-scar,  which  lay 
six  miles  from  Settle;  but  that  way  was  di- 
rectly over  a  fell,  and  as  the  weather  was 
not  to  be  depended  on,  I  went  round  in  a 
chaise,  the  only  way  one  could  get  near  it 
in  a  carriage,  which  made  it  full  thirteen 
miles,  half  of  it  such  a  road  !  but  I  got  safe 
over  it,  so  there's  an  end,  and  came  to  Mal- 
ham  (pronounced  Maum)  a  village  in  the 
bosom  of  the  mountains,  seated  in  a  wild  and 
dreary  valley. — From  thence  1  was  to  walk 
a  mile  over  very  rough  ground,  a  torrent 
rattling  along  on  the  left  hand;  on  the  cliffs 
above  hung  a  few  goats;  one  of  them  danced 
and  scratched  an  ear  with  its  hind  foot  in  a 
place  where  1  would  not  have  stood  stock- 
still 


gray's  letters.  211 

For  all  beneath  the  moon. 

As  I  advanced,  the  crags  seemed  to  close  in, 
but  discovered  a  narrow  entrance  turning  to 
the  left  between  them:  1  followed  my  guide 
a  few  paces,  and  the  hills  opened  again  into 
no  large  space;  and  then  all  farther  way  is 
barred  by  a  stream  that,  at  the  height  of 
about  fifty  feet,  gushes  from  a  hole  in  the 
rock,  and  spreading  in  large  sheets  over  its 
broken  front,  dashes  from  steep  to  steep, 
and  then  rattles  away  in  a  torrent  down  the 
valley:  the  rock  on  the  left  rises  perpen- 
dicular, with  stubbed  yew-trees  and  shrubs 
staring  from  its  side,  to  the  height  of  at  least 
300  feet;  but  these  are  not  the  thing:  it  is 
the  rock  to  the  right,  under  which  you  stand 
to  see  the  fall,  that  forms  the  principal  hor- 
ror of  the  place.  From  its  very  base  it  be- 
gins to  slope  forwards  over  you  in  one  block 
or  solid  mass  without  any  crevice  in  its  sur- 
face, and  overshadows  half  the  area  below 
with  its  dreadful  canopy;  when  1  stood  at  (1 
believe)  four  yards  distance  from  its  foot, 
the  drops,  which  perpetually  distil  from  its 
brow,  fell  on  my  head;  and  in  one  part  of 
its  top,  more  exposed  to  the  weather,  there 
are  loose  stones  that  hang  in  air,  and  threa- 
ten visibly  some  idle  spectator  with  instant 


212  GRAY 'a    LETTERS. 

destruction;  it  is  safer  to  shelter  yourself 
close  to  its  bottom,  and  trust  to  the  mercy  of 
that  enormous  mass  which  nothing  but  an 
earthquake  can  stir.  The  gloomy  uncom- 
fortable day  well  suited  the  savage  aspect  of 
the  place,  and  made  it  still  more  formidable: 
I  stayed  there,  not  without  shuddering,  a 
quarter-  of  an  hour,  and  thought  my  trouble 
richly  paid;  for  the  impression  will  last  for 
life.  At  the  ale-house  where  1  dined  in 
Malham,  Vivares,  the  landscape-painter,  had 
lodged  for  a  week  or  more;  Smith  and  Bel- 
lers  had  also  been  there,  and  tv*o  prints  of 
Gordale  have  been  engraved  by  them. 

Oct.  14.  Leaving  my  comfortable  inn,  to 
which  I  had  returned  from  Gordale,  I  set 
out  for  Skipton,  sixteen  miles.  From 
several  parts  of  the  road,  and  in  many  places 
about  Settle,  I  saw  at  once  the  three  famous 
hills  of  this  country,  Ingleborough,  Peni- 
gent,  and  Pendle;  the  first  is  esteemed  the 
highest,  and  their  features  not  to  be  describ- 
ed, but  by  the  pencil.* 

*  Without  the  pencil  nothing  indeed  is  to  be  described  with  pre- 
cision ;  and  even  then  that  pencil  ought  to  be  in  the  very  hand  of 
the  writei-,  ready  to  supply  ^vilh  om lines  every  thing  that  his  pen 
c  annot  express  by  words.  As  far  as  language  can  describe,  Mr. 
Gray  lias,  I  think,  pushed  its  powers :  for  rejecting,  as  I  before 
hinted,  every  general  unmeaning  and  hyperbolical  phi-ase,  he  has 


grab's  letters.  213 

Craven,  after  all,  is  an  unpleasing  country 
when   seen  from  a  height;  its   valleys   are 

selected  (both  iu  this  jonnial,  and  on  other  similar  occasions)  the 
plainest,  simplest,  and  most  direct  terms  :  yt't  notwithstanding  his 
judicious  cai-e  in  the  use  of  tliese,  I  must  own  I  feel  tliern  defec? 
tive.  Tliey  present  nie,  it  is  true,  with  a  picture  of  the  same 
species,  but  not  witli  the  identical  picture :  ray  imagination  re- 
ceives clear  anddistiuct,  but  not  tnie  and  exact  images.  It  may 
be  asked  then ,  why  am  I  entertainetl  by  well-written  descnptions  ? 
I  answer,  because  they  amuse  ^^hen  they  do  not  inform  meymid 
because,  after  I  have  seen  the  places  described  they  f^erve  to  recall 
to  my  memoi-y  the  original  scene,  almost  as  well  as  the  truest 
drawing  or  picture.  In  the  mean  while,  my  mind  is  flattered  by 
thinking  it  has  acquired  some  conception  of  the  place,  and  rests 
contented  in  an  innocent  error,  which  nothing  but  ocular  proof  can 
detect,  and  wh^ch,  when  detected,  does  not  diminish  the  pleasure  I 
had  before  received,  but  augments  it  by  superadding  the  charms  of 
comparison  and  verification;  and  herein  I  would  place  the  rc«l 
and  only  merit  of  verlial  prose  description.  To  speak  of  poetical, 
would  lead  me  beyond  the  limits  as  well  as  the  purpose  of  this  note. 
I  cannot,  however,  helj)  adding,  (hat  I  have  seen  one  piece  of  ver- 
bal description  which  corajjletely  satisfies  me,  because  it  is 
throughout  assisted  by  masterly  delineation.  It  is  composed  by 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Gilpin,  of  Cheam  in  Surrey ;  and  contains,  amongst 
other  places,  an  account  of  the  very  scenes  wliich,  in  this  tour,  our 
author  visited.  This  gentleman.,  possessing  the  conjoined  talent 
ofa  writer  and  a  designer,  has  employed  them  in  this  manuscript 
to  every  purpose  of  picturesque  beauty,  in  the  description  of 
which,  a  eonvct  eye.  a  practised  pencil,  and  an  eloqu«it  ptn  could 
assist  liiJTi  He  has.  consequently,  pr6ducetl  a  work  vnique  in  its 
kind.  But  I  have  said  it  is  in  manuscript,  and  i  am  afraid,  likely 
to  continue  so  ;  for  would  his  modv-sty  pennit  him  to  print  it,  the 
great  expense  of  iilates  would  make  its  publication  almost  impmc 
ticable. 


214  gray's  letters. 

chiefly  wide,  and  either  marshy  or  enclosed 
pasture,  with  a  few  trees.  Numbers  of 
black  cattle  are  fatted  here,  both  of  the 
Scotch  breed,  and  a  larger  sort  of  oxen  with 
great  horns.  There  is  little  cultivated 
ground,  except  a  few  oats. 

Skipton,  to  which  I  went  through  Long- 
Preston  and  Gargrave,  is  a  pretty  large 
market-town,  in  a  valley,  with  one  very 
broad  street  gently  sloping  downwards  from 
the  castle,  which  stands  at  the  head  of  it. 
This  is  one  of  our  good  countess''s  build- 
ings,* but  on  old  foundations;  it  is  not  very 
large,  but  of  a  handsome  antique  appearance, 
with  round  towers,  a  grand  gateway,  bridge, 
and  moat,  surrounded  by  many  old  trees.  It  is 
in  good  repair  and  kept  up  as  a  habitation  of 
the  earl  of  Thanet,  though  he  rarely  comes 
thither:  what  with  the  sleet,  and  a  foolish 
dispute  about  chaises,  that  delayed  me,  I  did 
not  see  the  hiside  of  it,  but  went  on  fifteen 
miles,  to  Otley;  first  up  Shode-bank,  the 
steepest  hill  I  ever  saw  a  road  carried  over 
in  England,  for  it  mounts  in  a  strait  line 
(without  any  other  repose  for  the  horses 
than  by  placing  stones  every  now  and  then 
behind  the  wheels)  for  a  full  mile;  then  the 

*  Anne  countess  of  Pembroke  and  Montgomery. 


gray's  letters.  215 

road  goes  on  a  level  along  the  brow  of  this 
high  hill  over  Rumbald-moor,  till  itgreatly  de- 
scends into  Wharldale,  so  they  call  the  vale 
of  the  wharf;  and  a  beautiful  vale  it  is,  well 
wooded,  well  cultivated,  well  inhabited,  but 
with  high  crags  at  a  distance,  that  border  the 
green  country  on  either  hand;  through  the 
midst  of  it,  deep,  clear,  full  to  the  brink,  and 
of  no  inconsiderable  breadth,  runs  in  long 
windings  the  river  How  it  comes  to  pass 
that  it  should  be  so  fine  and  copious  a  stream 
here,  and  at  Tadcaster  (so  much  lower) 
should  have  nothing  but  a  wide  stony  chan- 
nel without  water,  I  cannot  tell  you.  I 
passed  through  Long  Addingham,  llkeley 
(pronounced  Eecly)  distinguished  by  a  lofty 
brow  of  loose  rocks  to  the  right:  Burley,  a 
neat  and  pretty  village,  among  trees  on  the 
opposite  side  of  the  river  lay  Middleton- 
Lodge,  belonging  to  a  Catholic  gentleman 
of  that  name;  Weston,  a  venerable  stone 
fabric,  with  large  offices,  of  Mr.  Vavasour, 
the  meadows  in  front  gently  descending  to 
the  water,  and  behind  ^a  great  and  shady 
wood;  Farley  (Mr.  Fawkes's)  a  place  like 
the  last,  but  larger,  and  rising  higher  on  the 
side  of  the  hill.  Otley  is  a  large  airy  town, 
with  clean  but  low  rustic  buildings,  and  a 
bridge  over  the  wharf;  I  went  into  its  spa- 


216  quay's  letters. 

cious  Gothic  church  which  has  been  new- 
roofed,  with  a  flat  stucco-ceiling  ;  in  the 
corner  of  it  is  the  monument  of  Thomas 
lord  Fairfax,  and  Helen  Aske,  his  lady,  de- 
scended from  the  Cliifords  and  Latimers,  as 
her  epitaph  says;  the  figures,  not  ill-cut, 
(particularly  his  in  armour,  but  bareheaded) 
lie  on  the  tomb.  1  take  them  to  be  the 
narents  of  the  famous  sir  Thomas  Fairfax. 


CXLV. 

TO    DR.    WHARTON. 

April  18,  1770. 

i  HAVE  utterly  forgot  where  my  journal  left 
off,  but  1  think  it  was  after  the  account  of 
Gordale  near  Settle;  if  so,  there  was  little 
more  worth  your  notice:  the  principal  things 
were  Wharldale,  in  the  way  from  Skipton  to 
Otley,  and  Kirkstall  abbey,  three  miles  from 
Leeds  *  *  *  *|.  Kirkstall  is  a  noble  ruin  in 
the  semi-saxon  style  of  building,  as  old  as 
King  Stephen,  towards  the  end  of  his  reign, 
1152.     The  whole   church  is  still  standing, 

t  Here  a  paragraph,  desev'bjng  AVharldale  in  the  foregoing  jour- 
nalj  T,as  repeated. 


gray's  letters.  217 

the  roof  excepted,  seated  in  a  delicious  quiet 
valley,  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Aire,  and 
preserved  with  religious  reverence  by  the 
duke  of  Montagu.  Adjoining  to  the  church, 
between  that  and  the  river,  are  variety  of 
chapels  and  remnants  of  the  abbey,  shatter- 
ed by  the  encroachments  of  the  ivy,  and 
surrounded  by  many  a  sturdy  tree,  whose 
twisted  roots  break  through  the  fret  of  the 
vaulting,  and  hang  streaming  from  the  roofs. 
The  gloom  of  these  ancient  cells,  the  shade  and 
verdure  of  the  landscape,  the  glittering  and 
murmur  of  the  stream,  the  lofty  towers,  and 
long  perspectives  of  the  church,  in  the 
midst  of  a  clear  bright  day,  detained  me  for 
many  hours,  and  were  the  truest  objects  for 
my  glass  I  have  yet  met  with  any  where. 
As  I  lay  at  that  smoky,  ugly,  busy  town  of 
Leeds,  I  dropped  all  further  thoughts  of  my 
journal;  and  after  passing  two  days  at  Ma- 
son's (though  he  was  absent)  pursued  my 
way  by  Nottingham,  Leicester,  Harborough, 
Kettering,  Thrapston,  and  Huntingdon,  to 
Cambridge,  where  I  arrived  on  the  22d  of 
October,  having  met  with  no  rain  to  signify 
till  this  last  day  of  my  journey.  There's 
luck  for  you! 

I  do  think  of  seeing  Wales  this  summer, 
having  never  found  my  spirits  lower  than  at 


218  gray's  letters. 

present,  and  feeling  that  motion  and  change 
of  the  scene  is  absolutely  necessary  to  me;  I 
will  make  Aston  in  my  way  to  Chester,  and 
shall  rejoice  to  meet  you  there  the  last  week 
in  May.  Mason  writes  me  word  that  he 
wishes  it;  and  though  his  old  house  is  down, 
and  his  new  one  not- up,  proposes  to  re- 
ceive us  like  princes  in  grain. 


CXLVI. 

TO    MR.    NICHOLLS.* 

I  RECEIVED  your  letter  at  Southampton;  and 
as  I  would  wish  to  treat  every  l^ody  accord- 
ing to  their  own  rule  and  measure  of  gooil 
breedings  have,  against  my  inclination,  waited 
till  now  before  I  answered  it,  purely  out  of 
fear  and  respect,  and  an  ingenuous  diffidence 
of  my  own  abilities,  if  you  will  not  take 
this  as  an  excuse,  accept  it  at  least  as  a  well- 
turned  period,  which  is  always  my  principal 
concern. 

*  This  letter  was  written  the  19th  of  November,  1764  ;  but  as  it 
delineates  another  abbey,  in  a  different  manner,  it  seems  to  make 
no  improper  companion  to  that  which  precedes  it. 


gray's  letters.  219 

So  I  proceed  to  tell  you  that  my  health  is 
much  improved  by  the  sea:  not  that  I  drank 
it,  or  bathed  in  it,  as  the  common  people  do: 
no!  I  only  walked  by  it  and  looked  upon  it. 
The  climate  is  remarkably  mild,  even  in  Oc- 
tober and  November;  no  snow  has  been 
seen  to  lie  there  for  these  thirt}^  years  past; 
the  myrtles  grow  in  the  ground  against  the 
houses,  and  Guernsey  lilies  bloom  in  every 
window:  the  town,  clean  and  well-built,  sur- 
rounded by  its  old  stone  walls,  with  their 
towers  and  gateways,  stands  at  the  point  of  a 
peninsula,  and  opens  full  south  to  an  arm  of 
the  sea,  whi:h,  having  formed  two  beautiful 
bays  on  each  hand  of  it,  stretches  away  in 
direct  view,  till  it  joins  the  British  channel; 
it  is  skirted  on  either  side  with  gently  rising- 
groimds,  clothed  with  thick  wood,  and  di- 
rectly cross  its  mouth  rise  the  high  knds  of 
the  Isle  of  White  at  a  distance,  but  distinctly 
seen.  In  the  bosom  of  the  woods  (conceal- 
ed from  profane  eyes)  lie  hid  the  ruins  of  Net- 
tely  abbey;  there  may  be  richer  and  greater 
houses  of  religion,  but  the  abbot  is  content 
with  his  situation.  See  there,  at  the  top  of 
that  hanging  mnadow,  under  the  shade  of 
those  old  trees  that  bend  into  a  half  circle 
about  it,  he  is  walking  slowly  (good  mani) 
and  telling  his  beajs  for  the  souls  of  his  be' 


220  gray's  letters. 

nefactors,  interred  in  that  venerable  pile  that 
lies  beneath  him.  Beyond  it  (the  meadows 
still  descending)  nods  a  thicket  of  oaks  that 
mask  the  building,  and  have  excluded  a  view 
too  garish  and  luxuriant  for  a  holy  eye;  only 
on  either  hand  they  leave  an  opening  to  the 
blue  glittering  sea.  Did  you  not  observe 
how,  as  that  white  sail  shot  by  and  was  lost, 
he  turned  and  crossed  himself  to  drive  the 
tempter  from  him  that  had  thrown  that  dis- 
traction in  his  wav?  I  should  tell  you  that  the 
ferryman  who  rowed  me,  a  lusty  young  fel- 
low, told  me  that  he  would  not  for  all  the 
world  pass  a  night  at  the  abbey  (there  were 
such  things  seen  near  it)  though  there  was  a 
power  of  money  hid  there.  From  thence  I 
vreut  to  Salisbury,  Wilton,  and  Stonehenge: 
but  of  these  things  1  say  no  more,  they  will 
be  published  at  the  University  press. 

P.  S.  I  must  not  close  my  letter  without 
giving  you  one  principal  event  of  my  history; 
which  was,  that,  (in  the  course  of  my  late 
tour)  I  set  out  one  morning  before  five 
o'clock,  the  moon  shining  through  a  dark 
and  misty  autumnal  air,  and  got  to  the  sea- 
coast  time  enough  to  be  at  the  sun's  levee. 
I  saw  the  clouds  and  dark  vapours  open  gra- 
dually  to  right  and  left,   rolling   over   one 


gray's  letters.  221 

another  in  great  smoky  wreaths,  and  the  tide 
(as  it  flowed  gently  in  upon  the  sands)  tirst 
whitening,  then  slightly  tinged  with  g()]d  and 
blue;  and  all  at  once  a  little  line  of  insuf- 
ferable brightness  that  (before  1  "can  write 
these  tive  words)  was  grown  to  half  an  orb, 
and  now  to  a  whole  one,  too  glorious  to  be 
distinctly  seen  *  It  is  very  odd  it  makes  no 
figure  on  paper;  yet  I  shall  remember  it  as 
long  as  the  sun,  or  at  least  as  long  as  I  en- 
dure. I  wonder  whether  any  body  ever  saw 
it  before?     I  hardly  believe  it. 


CXLVII. 


TO    MR.    BEATTIE. 

Pembroke-Hall,  July  2,  1770. 

1  REJOICE  to  hear  that  you  are  restored  to 
better  state  of  health,  to  your  books,  and  to 
your  muse   once   again.      That  forced  dis* 

*  This  puts  me  in  miBd  of  a  similar  description  written  by  Dr. 
Jeremy  Taylor,  which  I  shall  here  beg  leave  to  present  to  the  read- 
er, who  will  find  by  it  that  the  old  divine  had  occaiionallj  as 
much  power  of  desci-iption  as  even  our  modem  poet  "  As  when 
the  sun  approaches  towards  tlie  gates  of  the  morning,  he  first 
opens  a  little  eye  of  heaven,  and  sends  away  the  spirits  of  dark- 
ness ;  gives  light  to  the  cock,  and  calls  up  the  l^k  to  mat- 
tins  ;  and  by  and  by  g^lds    the  fringes  of  a  cloud,    aad  j)eeps 


X.'^^  GRAY  S  LETTERS. 

sipation  and  exercise  we  are  obliged  to  % 
to  as  a  remed}',  nht  n  this  frail  mRchine  goes 
wrong,  is  often  almost  as  bad  as  the  distem- 
per we  would  cure;  yet  I  too  have  been 
constrained  of  ];ite  to  pursue  a  like  regimen, 
on  account  of  certain  pains  in  the  head  (a 
sensation  unknown  to  me  before)  and  of 
great  dejection  of  spirits.  This,  sir,  is  the 
only  excuse  I  have  to  make  you  for  my  long 
silence,  and  not  (as  perhaps  you  may  nave 
figured  to  yourself)  any  secret  reluctance  I 
had  to  tell  you  my  mind  concerning  the  spe- 
cimen you  so  kindly  sent  me  of  your  new 
poem:*  on  the  contrary,  if  I  had  seen  any- 
thing of  importance  to  disapprove,  I  should 
have  hastened  to  inform  you,  and  never  doubt- 
ed of  being  forgiven.  The  truth  is,  I  greatly 
like  all  1  have  seen,  and  wish  to  see  more. 
The  design  is  simple,  and  pregnant  with  poe- 
tical ideas  of  various  kinds,  yet  seems  some- 
how imperfect  at  the  end.  Why  may  notyoung 
Edwin,  when  necessity  has  driven    him    to 

over  the  eastern  hills,  thrusting  out  his  golden  horns  *  *  • } 
and  still  (while  a  man  tells  the  story)  the  sun  gets  up  higher  till 
he  shows  a  fair  face  and  a  full  light."  J.  Taylor's  Holy  Dy. 
ing,  p.  17. 

•  This  letter  was  written  in  answer  to  one  that  enclosed  only  a 
part  of  the  first  book  of  the  Mi.istrel  in  manuscript,  and  I  belierc 
a  sketch  of  Mr>  Beattie's  plan  for  the  whole. 


gray's  letters.  223 

take  up  the  harp,  and  assume  the  profes- 
sion of  a  minstrel,  do  some  great  and  sin- 
gular service  to  his  country?  (what  service 
I  must  leave  to  your  invention)  such  as  no 
general,  no  statesman,  no  moralist,  could  do 
without  the  aid  of  music,  inspiration,  and 
poetr}'.  This  will  not  appear  an  improba- 
bility in  those  early  times,  and  in  a  cha- 
racter then  held  sacred,  and  respected  by 
all  nations:  besides,  it  will  be  a  full  answer 
to  all  the  hermit  has  said,  when  he  dissuaded 
him  from  cultivating  these  pleasing  arts;  it 
will  show  their  use,  and  make  the  best  pane- 
gyric of  our  favourite  and  celestial  science. 
And  lastly,  (what  weighs  most  with  me)  it 
will  throw  more  of  action,  pathos,  and  inte- 
rest into  your  design,  which  already  abounds 
in  reflection  and  sentiment.  As  to  descrip- 
tion, I  have  always  thought  that  it  made  the 
most  graceful  ornament  of  poetry,  but  never 
ought  to  make  the  subject.  Your  ideas  are 
new,  and  borrowed  from  a  mountainous 
country;  the  only  one  that  can  furnish 
truly  picturesque  scenery.  Some  trifles  in 
the  language  or  versitication  you  will  permit 
me  to  remark.  *  *  * 

I  will  not  enter  at  present  into  the  merits 
of  your  Essai/  on  Truths  because  I  have 
not  yet  given  it  all  the  attention  it  deserves, 


2^4  gray's  letters. 

though  I  have  read  it  through  with  pleasure; 
besides,  I  am  partial;  for  I  have  always 
thought  David  Hume  a  pernicious  writer, 
and  believe  he  has  done  as  much  mischief 
here  as  he  has  in  his  own  country.  A  turbid 
and  shallow  stream  often  appears  to  our  ap- 
prehensions very  deep.  A  professed  scep- 
tic can  be  guided  by  nothing  but  his  present 
passions  (if  he  has  any)  and  interests;  and 
to  be  masters  of  his  philosophy  we  need 
not  his  books  or  advice,  for  every  child  is 
capable  of  the  same  thing,  without  any 
^tudy  at  all.  Is  not  that  naivcie  aiid  good 
humour,  which  his  admirers  celebrate  in 
him,  owing  to  this,  that  he  has  continued 
all  his  days  an  infant,  but  one  that  unhappily 
has  been  taught  to  read  and  w^ite?  That 
childish  nation,  the  French,  have  given  him 
vogue  and  fashion,  and  we,  as  usual,  have 
learned  from  them  to  admire  him  at  second- 
hand.* 

*  On  a  similar  subject  Mr.  Gray  expresses  himself  thus  in  a  let- 
ter to  Mr.  Walpole,  dated  March  17,  1771 :  "He  must  lia^e  a  very 
good  stomach  that  can  digest  the  Crambe  recocta  of  Voltaire.  Athe- 
ism is  a  vile  dish,  though  all  the  cooks  of  France  combine  to  make 
new  sauces  to  it.  As  to  the  soul,  perhaps  they  may  have  none  on 
the  continent ;  but  I  do  think  we  have  such  things  in  England. 
Shalispeare,  for  example,  I  believe  had  several  to  his  own  share. 
As  to  the  Jews  (tliough  they  do  not  eat  pork)  I  like  them  because 
they  are  better  Christians  tlian  Voltaire."    This  was  written  only 


gray's  letters.  225 


CXLVIII. 

TO    MR.    NICHOLLS. 

Pembroke-Hall,  Jan.  26, 1771. 

I  REJOICE  you  have  met  with  Froissard,  he  is 
the  Herodotus  of  a  barbarous  age;  had  he 
but  had  the  luck  of  writing  in  as  good  a  lan- 
guage, he  might,have  been  immortal!  His 
locomotive  disposition,  (for  then  there  was 
no  other  way  of  learning  things)  his  simple 
curiosity,  his  religious  credulity,  were  much 

three  months  befoiie  lus  death  ;  and  I  insert  it  to  show  how  constant 
and  uniform  he  was  in  his  contempt  of  infidel  writers.  Dr.  Beat- 
tic  received  only  one  letter  more  from  his  coirespondent,  dated 
March  8, 1771.  It  related  to  the  first  book  of  the  Minstrel,  now 
sent  to  him  in  print,  and  contained  criticisms  on  particular  passa- 
ges, and  commendations  of  particular  stanzas.  Those  criticisms 
the  author  attended  to  in  a  future  edition,  because  his  good  taste 
found  that  they  deserved  his  attention  ;  the  passages  therefore  be- 
ing altered,  the  strictures  die  of  course.  As  to  the  notes  of 
commendation,  tlie  poem  itself  abounds  with  so  many 
striking  beauties,  that  they  neetl  not  even  the  hand  of  Mr.  Gray  to 
point  them  out  to  a  reader  of  any  feeling  :  all  therefore  that  I 
shall  print  of  that  letter,  is  the  concluding  paragraph  relating  to 
his  Essay  on  the  Immutability  of  Truth.  "  I  am  happy  to  hear  of 
your  success  in  another  way,  because  I  think  you  are  serving  the. 
cause  of  human  nature,  and  the  true  interests  of  mankind  ;  your 
'wok  is  read  here  too,  and  with  just  applause." 
VOL.   IV.  31 


226  gray's  letters. 

like  those  of  the  old  Grecian.*  When  you 
have  tant  chcvauche,  as  to  get  to  the  end  of 
him,  there  is  Monstrelet  waits  to  take  you 
up,  and  will  set  you  down  at  Philip  de  Co- 
mines;  but  previous  to  all  these,  you  should 
have  read  Villehardouin  and  Joinville.  I  do 
not  think  myself  bound  to  defend  the  charac- 
ter of  even  the  best  of  kings :t  pray  slash 
them  all  and  spare  not. 

It  would  be  strange  too  if  I  should  blame 
your  Greek  studies,  or  find  fault  with  you 
for  reading  Isocrates;  I  did  so  myself  twenty 
years  ago,  and  in  an  edition  at  least  as  bad  as 
yours.  The  Panegyric,  the  de  Pace,  Areo- 
pagitic,  and  Advice  to  Philip,  are  by  far  the 
noblest  remains  we  have  of  this  writer,  and 
equal  to  most  things  extant  in  the  Greek 
tongue;  but  it  depends  on  your  judgment  to 
distinguish  between  his  real  and  occasional 
opinion  of  things,  as  he  directly  contradicts 
in  one  place  what  he  has  advanced  in  ano- 
ther: for  example,  in  the  Panathenaic,  and 
the  de  Pace,  &c.  on  the  naval  power  of 
Athens;  the  latter  of  the  two  is  undoubtedly 
his  own  undisguised  sentiment. 

*,  See  more  of  his  opinion  of  this  author,  Letter  CVII. 
1 1  suppose  his  coirespondent  had  uj^tde  some  strictures  on  the 
character  of  Henry  IV.  •£  France. 


gray's  letters.  227 

I  would  by  all  means  wish  you  to  comply 
Avith  your  friend's  request,  and  write  the  let- 
ter he  desires.  I  trust  to  the  cause  and  to 
the  warmth  of  3^our  own  kindness  for  inspi- 
ration. Write  eloquently,  that  is  from 
your  heart,  in  such  expressions  as  that  will 
furnish  *  Men  sometimes  catch  that  feeling 
from  a  stranger  which  should  have  originally 
sprung  from  their  own  heart. 


CXLIX. 

TO  DR.  WHARTON. 

:May  24, 1771. 

My  last  summer's  tour  was  through  Worces- 
tershire, Gloucestershire,  Monmouthshire, 
Herefordshire,  and  Shropshire,  five  of  the 
most  beautiful  counties  in  the  kingdom.  The 

*  This  short  sentence  contains  a  complete  definition  of  natiu-al 
eloquence  :  when  it  beconies  an  art  it  requires  one  rnoiv  prolix,  and 
our  author  seems  to  have  begun  to  sketch  it  on  a  detached  paper. 
*'  Its  province  (says  he)  is  to  reign  over  minds  of  slow  perception 
and  little  imagination,  to  set  things  in  lights  they  never  saw  them 
in ;  to  engage  their  attention  by  details  and  circumstances  gradually 
unfoldvd,  to  adorn  and  heighten  them  with  images  and  colours  un- 
known to  them,  and  to  ifjise  and  engage  their  rude  passions  to  tbe 
point  t«  which  the  speaker  wishes  to  bring  them."  *  *  ♦ 


5*28  GRAY  S    LETTERS, 

very  principal  light  and  capital  feature  oi'mv 
journey  was  the  river  Wye,  which  1  descend- 
ed in  a  boat  for  near  forty  miles  from  Ross  to 
Chepstow.  Its  banks  are  a  succession  of 
nameless  beauties;  one  out  of  many  you  may 
see  not  ill  described  by  Mr.  Whately,  in  his 
observations  on  gardening,  under  the  name 
of  the  New-Weir;  he  has  also  touched 
upon  two  others,  Tinterne  Abbey  and  Pers- 
field,  both  of  them  famous  scenes,  and 
both  on  the  Wye.  Monmouth,  a  town  I 
never  heard  mentioned,  lies  on  the  same 
river,  in  a  vale  that  is  the  delight  of  my 
eyes,  and  the  very  seat  of  pleasure.  The 
vale  of  Abergavenny,  Ragland,  and  Chepstovr 
castles;  Ludlow,  Mah ern-hills,  Hampton- 
court,  near  Lemster;  the  Leasowes,  Hagley, 
the  three  cities  and  their  cathedrals;  and 
lastly  Oxford  (where  I  passed  two  days  on 
my  return  with  great  satisfaction)  were  the 
rest  of  my  acquisitions,  and  no  bad  harvest 
in  my  opinion;  but  I  made  no  journal  myself, 
else  you  should  have  had  it:  I  have  indeed 
a  short  one  written  by  the  companion  of  my 
travels,*  that  serves  to  recall  and  fix  the 
fleeting  images  of  these  things. 

I  have  had  a  cough  upon  me  these  three 
months,  which  is  incurable.     The  approach- 

*  :Mr.  NicUolls. 


fray's  letters.  229 

ing  summer  I  have  sometimes  had  thoughts 
of  spending  on  the  continent;  but  I  have 
now  dropped  that  intention,  and  believe  my 
expeditions  will  terminate  in  Old  Park:  but 
I  make  no  promise,  and  can  answer  for 
nothing;  my  own  employment  so  sticks  in 
my  stomach,  and  troubles  my  conscience: 
and  yet  travel  I  must,  or  cease  to  exist. 
Till  this  year  1  hardly  knew  what  (mecha- 
nical) lo.w  spirits  were,  but  now  I  even  trem- 
ble at  an.  east  wind. 


The  gout,  which  he  always  believed  heiieditary  in  his  constitu- 
tion, (for  both  h\s  parents  died  of  thiit  distemper)  had  now  f<x 
several  years  attacked  him  in  a  weakly  and  unfixed  manner  ;  and 
the  great  temperance  which  he  observed,  particularly  in  regard  to 
his  drinking,  served,  perhaps,  to  prevent  any  severe  paroxysm,  but 
by  no  means  eradicated  the  constitutional  malady.  In  the  lattei' 
end  of  May,  1771,  just  about  the  time  he  wrote  the  last  letter,  he 
removed  to  London,  where  he  became  feverish,  and  his  dejection  of 
spirits  increased :  the  weather  being  then  very  sultrv,  our  com- 
mon friend.  Dr.  Gisbome,  advised  him.  for  an  opener  ad  freer  air, 
to  rtivove  from  his  lodgings  in  Jermyn-street  to  Kensington,  where 
he  frequently  attended  him,  and  where  Mr.  Gray  so  far  g»t  the 
better  of  his  disorder,  as  to  be  able  to  return  to  Can  bridge ;  meaning 
from  thence  to  set  out  very  soon  for  Old  Park,  in  hopes  that  travel- 
ling, from  which  he  usually  received  so  much  benefit,  would  com- 
plete his  cuie  :  but  on  the  24th  of  July,  while  at  dinner  in  the  col- 
lege hail,  he  felt  a  sudden  nausea,  which  obliged  him  to  rise  from 
table  and  retire  to  his  chamber.  This  co;  tinned  to  inerease,  and 
nething  staying  sn  his  stomach,  he  sent  for  his  friend  Dr.  Gly», 


2S0 

■vho  finding  it  to  be  the  gout  in  tbat  part,  thought  his  ease  dange. 
rous,  aiid  called  in  Dr.  Plumptree,  the  physical  professor :  they 
prescribtd  to  hiji)  the  usual  coi^iah  given  in  tliat  distemper,  but 
without  any  good  effect ;  for  on  the  29th  he  was  seized  with  a 
strong  couTulsion  fit,  which,  on  the  30th,  returned  m  ith  increased 
violtnce.  and  on  the  next  evening  he  expired.  He  was  sensible  at 
times  almost  to  the  last,  and  from  the  first  aware  of  his  extreme 
da^iger  ;  but  expi-essed  no  visible  concern  at  the  thoughts  of  his  ap- 
proaching dissolution. 

This  account  I  draw  up  from  the  letters  which  Dr  Brown,  then 
on  the  spot,  wrote  to  me  during  his  short  illness  ;  and  as  I  felt 
strongly  at  the  time  what  Tacitus  has  so  well  exprsssed  on  a  similar 
occasion,  I  may.  with  propriety,  use  his  words:  "^Mihi,  praeter 
acerbitatem  amici  erepti,  auget  mcestitiani,  quod  assidere  valetu- 
dini.  fovere  deficientem,  satiari  vultii,  complexu,  non  contigit."  I 
Was  then  on  the  eastern  side  of  Yorkshire  at  a  distance  from  the 
direct  p«st,  ard  therefore  did  not  receive  the  melancholy  intelli- 
gence soon  enough  to  be  able  to  reach  Cambridge  before  his  corpse 
had  been  catried  to  tht  place  he  had,  by  will,  appointed  for  its  in- 
terment. To  see  the  last  rights  duly  performed,  therefore,  fell  to 
the  lot  of  Dr  'Brown  ;  I  had  only  to  join  him,  on  his  return  from 
the  funeral,  in  executing  the  other  trusts  which  his  friendship  had 
authorized  us  jointly  to  perfu-m. 


INDEX. 


No. 
LXXXVII. 

LXXXVIII. 


LXXXIX. 


Page 


xc. 

XCI. 
XCII. 
XCIII. 

XCIV. 
XCV. 

XCVI. 
XCVTI. 
XCVIII. 


To  Dr.  Wharton.— On  Strawberry-Hill.— Occa- 
sio.ial  rciiisu-ks  on  Goiliic  arcliitecture 

To  Dr.  Wharton — Ob|ecti»ii  to  publishing  bis 
Ode  on  the  progn  ss  of  Poetry  singly. — Hint 
of  liis  having  other  lyrical  ideas  by  him  un- 
tinishtd  -  .  -  .  . 

To  Mr  Sto  iliewer.— Of  Monsi?nor  Baiardi's 
booK  coiictniiug  H  rcuianeuni. — A  poem  of 
Voltitire  —Encloses  a  jiart  of  his  ode*entitled 
the  Bard  -  -  -  - 

To  Dr.  Wharton. — On  his  removing  from  Pe- 
ter-House to  p.  mi'roke-Hall.-His  notion  of 
a  LondoM  hospital— Of  Sully's  iVfenioirs. — 
Mason's  four  odes  .... 

To  Dr.  AVhurton  — Of  his  own  ui-lolence —Me- 
moirs of  M  de  la  Porte  and  of  Madame  Staal. 
— I.'iteniion  of  eommg  to  town 

To  Mr.  Mason.— Of  his  «e\iew;-r'«,— Offers  to 
send  iiirn  Druid  cal  anecdotes  for  uis  project- 
ed drama  of  Caractacus  -  -  . 

To  Mr.  M  son  -On  hearing  PaiTj-  play  on  the 
Wehh  hurp. and  finishing  his  ode  after  it. — 
Account  of  the  old  !iailad  on  which  the  tra- 
gedy of  Douglas  was  founded    - 

To  Mr.  Walpole.— Kxprcs  es  his  aversion  to 
notes  accompanying  his  Bard 

To  Mr.  Walpole.— Inquiry  into  the  genuine- 
ness «f  an  Ei-se  |)oem  called    '  Hai-dicnute" 

To  Mr.  Walpole  — (.'riticism  of  Rousseau's 
'   Nouvelle  Hcloise"    -  -  .  . 

To  Mr  Hunl  -Oil  the  ill  reception  U\s  two  Pin- 
diu'ic  odes  met  with  on  their  puls^ication 

To  Mr  Mason  -  His  opiuiou  of  the  dramatic 
part  «f  Caractacus       -  -  -  . 


232 


No.  Fage 

XCIX.    To  Mr.  Mason.— Dissuading  hini  from  retire- 
mejit  — Advice  coutciuing  Caractacus.— Ciiti- 
ci-nis  on  his  Eltgy  wriiten  in  the  garden  of  a 
friend  —Refusal  olthe  office  of  Poct  Laureat    33 
C.    To  Dr  Whaiton.— Accouiit  Oi  his  present  em- 
ployment, ill  making  cut  a  list  of  places   in 
England  vorih  Sireitg  -  -  -    S7 

CI.    To  Dr  Whaitoii. — On  the  fore-mentioned  list. 
—  1  ragtdy  of  Agis .—  Various  authors  in  the 
last  voluines  ol  Dcdsity^  Miscellany. — Dr. 
Swift's  Jbur  last  years  of  queen  Anne  -    39 

CII.    To  Mr.  Stor.htwer.— On  inlidtl  writers  and  lord 

Shaftesbury        -  -  -  -  -    41 

Stiictures  on  an   impious  position  of  lord  Bo- 
lii.gbroke  -  -  -  -  -    44 

CIII.    To  Dr   Wharton.— On  the  death  of  his  son,  and 

an  excuse  for  not  writing  aJi  epitaph  -  -    49 

CIV.    To  Mr.  Palgrave— Dcsirntg  him  to  communi- 
cate the  remarks  he  should  make  in  his  tour 
througli  the  north  of  Etiglai.d  -  -    52 

CV.     To  Mr    Mason.— Some  remarks  on  a  second 

manuscript  copy  of  Caractacus  -  -     53 

CVI.    To  Mr   Palgrave  —Description  of  Mr.  Gray's 
pi-esent  situation  in  town,  and  ol"  his  reading 
in  the  British  Museum  -  -  -    57 

CVII.    To  Dr.  VVhai-'on— On  employment.— Gardcn- 
ing.— Character  of  Froi&sjutl  —King  of  Prus- 
sia's poLinv.- Tristram  Shandy  -  -    59 
CVIII.    To  Mr.  Stonhewer.- Oii  tlie  latter  volumes  of 

M.  d'Aleml.ert  and  the  Erse  fragments         -    63 
CIX.    To  Dr.  Clai'ke.— His  amusements  witl»  a  party 
on  the  banks  of  the  Thames. — Death  of  a 
Cambridge  doctor,— More  of  the  Erse  frag* 
'    ments     -  -  -  -  -  -    66 

ex.    To  Ml .  Mason.— On  two  parodies  of  Mr  Gray's 
and  Mr.   Mason's  odts.— Extract  of  a  letter 
from  Mr   David  Hume,  concerning  the  au- 
thenticity of  the   Erse  poetrj  -  -    6S 
CXI.     To  Dr  Wharton.- On  bis  employments  in  the 
country.— Nouvelle  Heloise  — Fingal  .—Cha- 
racter of  Mr.  StiUingfl.ct        -           -  -    73 
CXII.    To  Mr .  Mason.— Moi-e  concerning  the  Nouvelle 
H  loise. — Of  hiiguor  Elisi,  and  other  opera 
singirrs      -            -            -           -            -  -  7.'' 

CXIII.    To  Mr,  Muson. — On  his  expectation  of  being: 
made  a  losidenviavy  of  York.— Recovery  of 


INDEX. 


233 


No.  Page 

lord  •  *  •  from  a  dangerous  illness.— Reason 
for  writing  the  Epitaph  on  sir  William  Wil- 
liams    -  -  -  -  -  -    78 

CXIV,    To  Mr.  Walpole.— Remarks  on  Mr.  Walpole's 

Anecdotes  of  Paiiuiug       -  -  -  8© 

CXV.     To  Dr.  Whai\ou.— .;e:.cription  of  Hard  wick- 
Professor  Tm-ner's  Dc-aih —And  of  the  peace    82 
CXVT.    To  Mr  Mason —On  count  Algarotti's  approtia- 
tiou  of  tiis  and  Mi-.  Mason's  poetry.— Gotbie 
arciiitecture  —Plagiary    in   Helretius,  fr»ra 

Eifnd,* 84 

CXVIL    To  >lr    Biown.— Sending  him  a  message  to 
write  to  a  gentleman  abroad  relatijig  to  count 
Algarotti,  and  recommending  the  Erse  poems    93 
CXVIII.    Count  Algaiotti  to  Mr  Gray.-Complimentary, 
and  scalding  iiiin   some  dissertations  oi    his 
own        -  -  -  -  -  -    95 

CXIX.    To  Dr   Wharton.— On  Rousseau  sEmile  -    96 

CXX.    To  Mr.  How.— On  receiving  three  of  Count 

Algi.rotti's  Treatises,  and   hinting  an  error 

which  that  author  had   fallen  into,  with  re- 

gai-d  to  the  English  tisste  of  gardening  -    98 

CXXI.    To  Mr.   Walpole.— Ludicrous  remarks   on  the 

Castle  of  Otranto,  &c.  -  -  _  102 

CXXII.    To  Mr .  Palg.-ave  — What  he  partic ularly  advises 

him  to  see  when  abroad  -  -  -104 

CXXIIL     To  Mr.  Beattie  —Thanks  for  a  letter  received 
from  him,  and  an  iuviiation  from  lord  Strath- 
more  to  Glames  ....  no 

CXXIV.     To  Dr.  Wharton.-Descriptiou  of  the  old  castle 

of  Glames,  and  pait  of  the  Highlands  -  111 

CXXV.    To  Mr    Beattie.— Apology  for  not  accepting 
the  degree  of  Doctor,  offered  him  by  th«  Uni- 
versit}  of  Aberdeen      -  -  .  _  i24 

CXXVI.    To  Mr.  Walpole.— Humorous  recommendation 
of  warm    clothing  -French    nastine«s    and 
atheism  censured.— Description  of  an  old  pic- 
ture       -  -  -  -  .  -  127 

CXXVII.    To  Dr.  Wharton.-Buffln's  Natural  History.— 
Memoirs  of  Peirarch.— Mr.  Walpole  at  Pai'is, 
— Descriutiou  of  a  fine  lady   ...  130 
CXXVIII.    To  Dr.  Wharton.-Tour  into  Kent.-New  Bath 

Guide.- Aiiotlier  volume  of  Biiftbn  .  133 

fiXXIX.  To  Mr  Nicholls.-Ou  the  affection  due  to 
a  mother.— Description  of  that  j)art  of  Kent 
from  whence  the  letter  was  written    -  .  1S§ 


VOL.    lY. 


32 


i>34 


INDEX. 


No.  Page 

CXXX.    To  Mr.  Mason — On  the  death  of  his  wife       -  138 
CXXXI     To  Mr.  Beattie  -Thanks  for  a  n.an « > script  poem. 
-Mr  Adam  Ftrgusoii  s  Essa;  on  Civil  S«;ciety. 
— A  coc.plimtn?  to  lord  Gray  -  -  139 

CXXXII.  To  Mr.  Biattie  —On  th  >  projected  edition  of 
our  author's  poems  in  England  and  Scoilajjd. 
— Comniendntion  of  Mr   Beattie's  ode  on  Lord 

Hay's  Birth.<lay 142 

CXXXIII.    To  Mr.  How.— After  perusing  the    whole  of 
Count  Algarotti'c  wovks  in  the  Leghorn  tdi- 
tjon,  and  his  sentiiiiei.ts  concerning  them      -  144 
CXXXIV.     To  Mr  Beattie.— More  concerning  the  Glasgow 

edition  of  his  poems     -  -  -  -   148 

CXXXV.    To  TVJr  Walpole.-Criticism  on  Mr  Walpole's 

Historic  Doubts,  &c.    -  -  -  -  150 

CXXXVI.  To  Mr.  Walpole.— Excuses  himself  for  not 
show ii I g  his  poems  to  Mr.  Walpole  previous 
to  their  publication. — Speed  and  Leslie. — 
Boswell's  History   of  Corsica  -  "  IW 

CXXXVII.  To  Mr.  Walpole.— Extracts  from  sir  W.  Corn- 
wa'.lis's  Essays.— Remarks  on  Stowe,  Speed, 
Guthrie,  8cc.    -  -  -  -  -  160 

CXXXVIII.    To  the  duke  of  Grafton.-Thanking  him  for  his 

professorsliip     -  .  -  -  -  163 

CXXXIX.,  To  Mr.  Nicbolls — Account  of  Mr.  Brocket's 
death,  and  of  his  being  made  his  successor  in 
theiATofessorship  -  -  -  -  i64 

CXL      To  Mr.  Beitiie.- On  the  same  subject  -  165 

CXLI.     To  Mr.  NichuUs. On  the  death  of  his  nnele, 

govenicr  Floyer,  and  advising  him  to  take  or- 
ders       -  -  -  -  -  -  167 

CXLII.    To  Mr.  Nicholls, — Congratulating  him  upon  his 
.  situation,  and  mentioning  his  own  ode  on  the 
Installation  of  the  new  Chancellor    -  -170 

CXLIII.    To  Mr.  Beattie.— His  i-eason  for  writing  that 

ode 174 

CXLIV.    To  Dr.  Wbaiton  -A  journal  of  his  tour  through 
Westmoivland,  Cumberland,   and  a  part  of 

Yorkshire 176 

CXLV.    To  Dr.  Wharton. — Description  of  Kirkstall- 

Abbev,  and  some  ether  places  in  "Vorksbire   -  216 
CXLVI     To  Mr.  Nicholls,— Of  Ncttely-Abbey  and  South- 
ampton -  -    .      -  -  -  -18 
CXIiVH.    To  Mt   Beattie  —On  the  first  part  of  his   Min- 
strel liiid  his  Essay  oi«  the  Inimutability  of 
Truth.-Strictui"e  on  Mr.  D,  Hupie    -  -  221 


INDEX.  23^ 

CXLVIII.    To  Mr.  NichoUs.-Character  of  Froissard  and 

other  old   French  historians. — And  of  Iso-  ^^ 

CXLIX.    To^d"    Wharton. — Of   his  tour  taken   the 
^^^  ^^  Mouniouth,   &c. Intention 

*     ^  .  .r^l    1     It .1-  A-nJ     n^\\me     ill     Ctot£> 


of  health 


227 


THE  ENP. 


'^   <1 


^,     Deacidified  using  the  Bookkeeper  proces! 

Neutralizing  agent;  Magnesium  Oxide 
.-,     Treatment  Date:  March  2009 

''    PreservationTechnologiei 

A  WORLD  LEADER  IN  COLLECTIONS  PRESERVATIO 

111  Thomson  Park  Drive 
Cranberry  Township,  PA  16066 
(724)779-2111 


-Kr^      I 


^rr-- 


^■ 


•-^A  v"' 


x^o^. 


-.^-      X 


^^>^^ 


■y 


v^^ 


.,.% 


X*\..o 


,^^'  : 


^9% 


%"- 


..iy" 


A^^ 


,0- 


"^^  .^^' 


%^^- 


,0  c 


^^    ^c*^. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  430  036  1 


