HANDBOUND 
AT  THE 


MEMOIRS 

OF 


SIR    PHILIP    FRANCIS. 


VOL.  I. 


LOS  DON 

PRINTED     BY     SPOT  T 1 8  WOO  DB      ASD     CO 
3KW-STREET     SQUAUK 


Iff  H  Adlard  after  i  Pointing  by-  J  1  :• 


SIR  PBIIOF 


MEMOIRS 


OF 


SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  K.C.B. 


CORRESPONDENCE     AND     JOURNALS. 


COMMENCED    BY   THK   LATE 


JOSEPH    PAKKES,    ESQ. 


COMPLETED   AND   EDITED   BY 


HEEMAN     MEEIVALE,     M.A. 


IN    TWO    VOLUMES 
VOL.    I. 


LONDON: 
LONGMANS,     GEEEN,    AND    CO. 

1867. 


' 


DR 
50  (o 


PRELIMINARY  REMARKS. 

[By  THE  EDITOR.] 


ANY  RECORD  of  the  Life  of  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS  must  neces- 
sarily embrace  the  whole  series  of  public  events  in  England 
between  the  accession  of  George  III.  and  his  decease. 
Francis  was  born  in  1740,  two  years  after  the  King, 
and  died  on  December  22, 1818,  little  more  than  a  twelve- 
month before  him.  '  I  can  hardly  remember,'  he  told  his 
second  wife,  Lady  Francis,  '  when  I  did  not  write  for  the 
newspapers.'  The  anonymous  contributions  to  them  on 
which  his  fame  rests,  and  of  which  Mr.  Parkes  believed 
himself  to  have  traced  the  authorship,  commenced  (under 
many  names  preceding  that  of  Junius]  at  the  very  begin- 
ning of  the  reign.  He  took  a  strong  party  interest  in  the 
debates  on  the  suspension  of  the  Habeas  Corpus  Act, 
which  occurred  at  its  very  close.  And  during  the  whole 
interval  he  was  an  active,  eager,  passionate  politician.  In 
the  press,  in  office,  in  India,  in  Parliament,  in  the  Whig 
clubs,  in  the  Carlton  House  and  Brighton  coteries,  in  re- 
forming '  societies,'  he  mingled  in  every  movement,  and 
came  in  contact,  friendly  or  hostile,  with  almost  every 
statesman  of  those  sixty  years.  It  is  not  without  genuine 
feeling  that  he  speaks,  in  his  paper  on  the  Eegency 


vi  PRELIMINARY  REMARKS. 

question  in  1811,  (printed  as  a  specimen  of  his  style  in 
'  Junius  Identified,'  )  of  the  '  society  of  so  many  eminent 
men  whom  I  have  had  the  honour  to  live  with,  and  the 
misfortune  to  survive.' 

He  was  eminent,  if  not  great,  as  a  debater.  His  acknow- 
ledged writings,  though  numerous,  are  of  inferior  interest, 
reprints  of  speeches,  and  pamphlets  on  subjects  of  tempo- 
rary importance.1  His  great  but  mysterious  celebrity  rests, 
as  I  have  said,  on  his  anonymous  performances.  Even 
omitting  the  letters  of  Junius,  the  works  which  can  be 
traced  to  him  would  suffice  to  mark  him  as  a  very  power- 
ful writer  :  those  being  included,  the  verdict  of  English 
opinion  will  pronounce  him  a  great  one.  That  his 
life  was  on  the  whole  a  failure ;  that,  animated  at 
once  by  very  genuine  public  spirit  and  high-reaching 
ambition,  he  never  succeeded  in  either  achieving  great 
political  objects,  although  he  often  suggested  and  initi- 
ated their  achievement  by  others,  nor  in  attaining  distin- 
guished rank  in  his  own  person, — this  must  be  attributed 
partly  to  faults  of  character  and  conduct  which  the 
reader  of  these  pages  will  easily  discover.  But  it  was 
owing  also,  in  great  measure,  to  his  own  extraordinary 
success  as  Junius.  He  was  scarcely  thirty  when  that 
success  was  gained.  From  that  moment,  his  destiny  was 
influenced  by  it.  At  first,  while  the  wounds  inflicted  by 
the  libeller  were  fresh,  he  was  hampered  in  all  his  pro- 
ceedings by  the  necessity  of  guarding  a  secret  of  which 
the  disclosure  would  have  been  ruin.  The  habits  of 
mystery  thus  engendered  seem  to  have  grown  on  him. 
Junius  for  a  time  was  almost  forgotten  ;  the  immediate 

1  A  list  of  them,  but  incomplete,  is  printed  at  the  end  of  Taylor's  '  Junius 
Identified.' 


PRELIMINARY   REMARKS.  vii 

political  sting  was  past ;  the  literary  and  historical  interest 
attached  to  the  '  inquiry '  respecting  him  had  hardly 
commenced ;  but  Francis  during  this  middle  period  seems 
still  to  have  been  regarded  as  a  character  to  which  a 
mystery  was  attached,  a  controller  of  the  secret  influence 
of  the  press.  And  in  later  life,  the  suspicions  of  his  con- 
nection with  the  famous  letters  gradually  accumulated, 
until  they  culminated  in  1814  with  Taylor's  celebrated 
pamphlet '  Junius  Identified.'  Sir  Philip  thought  proper 
to  maintain,  throughout,  his  attitude  of  secresy,  and  of  oc- 
casional denial ;  and  thus  the  work  of  three  busy  years 
became,  and  remained,  a  burden  on  its  author  for  nearly 
fifty.  There  is  a  striking,  almost  a  terrible,  passage  in  Lady 
Francis's  Kecollections  of  him,  in  which  she  says  that  it 
was  the  opinion  of  some  of  his  intimate  friends  that  his 
hesitation  in  Parliamentary  speaking — which  was  a  main 
cause  of  his  comparative  failure — was  partly  owing  to  the 
consciousness  of  his  secret.  He  set  so  constant  and  habitual 
a  guard  on  his  lips,  lest  some  compromising  expression 
should  find  its  way  out  of  them,  that  the  habit  remained 
even  in  cases  where  the  '  secret '  was  not  at  all  in  question. 
The  mariner  in  which  Mr.  Parkes  had  intended  to  take 
up  the  subject  of  the  life  of  Francis,  and  the  extraordi- 
nary mass  of  materials  which  he  accumulated  for  the  pur- 
pose, are  described  by  him  in  his  own  Preface,  which  I 
subjoin.  I  have  done  so  not  without  a  slight  feeling  of 
injustice  to  Mr.  Parkes'  memory ;  partly  because  the  preface 
introduces  the  reader  not  to  the  fragment  only  which  Mr. 
Parkes  left,  but  to  the  great  work  which  he  contemplated, 
and  the  preparation  for  which  constituted  the  great  labour 
and  great  enjoyment  of  his  later  years  ;  partly  because  it  is 
itself  evidently  an  experiment  only,  and  would  no  doubt 


viii  PRELIMINARY   REMARKS. 

have  been  rewritten  had  the  book  been  completed.  But 
it  appeared  to  me  necessary,  in  order  to  explain  to  the 
reader  the  circumstances  under  which  this  imperfect  work 
is  offered  him 

I  need  hardly  say  that  these  are  circumstances  of  no 
ordinary  difficulty,  as  regards  myself.  I  have  under- 
taken to  present  to  the  public  the  fruits  of  Mr.  Parkes' 
labour,  but  I  can  do  so  only  on  a,  very  different  scale,  and 
in  a  far  less  perfect  manner,  than  had  been  Mr.  Parkes' 
own  intention. 

The  papers  of  Mr.  Parkes  placed  in  my  hands  were  the 
following.  In  the  first  place  a  corrected  and  complete 
life  of  Francis  down  to  1768,  that  is,  immediately  before 
the  appearance  of  the  first  letter  of  Junius ;  including  a 
most  minute  and  searching  inquiry  into  his  probable 
authorship  of  much  of  the  political  correspondence  of  the 
4  Public  Advertiser  '  to  that  date.  This  I  have  printed  in 
the  first  volume  of  the  present  work,  only  to  some  extent 
shortening  and  condensing  it. 

For  the  Junius  period  I  found  a  great  mass  of  material 
in  Mr.  Parkes's  own  hand,  besides  the  original  manuscripts 
which  he  had  consulted  in  working  on  it ;  but  all  rough, 
imperfect,  and  without  table  of  contents,  index  or  clue. 
Mr.  Parkes  had  evidently  trusted  to  a  methodical  head 
and  powerful  memory,  and  had  accumulated  matter  upon 
matter  without  any  attempt  as  yet  to  arrange  it,  or  any 
thought  (probably)  of  that  labour  of  love  being  executed 
by  other  hands  than  his  own.  I  found  many  valuable 
essays,  minutes,  memoranda,  scattered  notices  on  separate 
sheets  of  paper,  concerning  particular  points  of  the  sub- 
ject, and  indicating  the  line  of  argument  which  he  meant 
to  take  respecting  it>  but  nothing  complete,  or  which  could 


PRELIMINARY  REMARKS.  ix 

be  rendered  complete.     If  the  work  was  to  be  done,  i 
could  be  by  rewriting  only. 

Now  it  is  important  to  observe,  and  the  more  so  in 
order  to  disabuse  the  public  of  possible  anticipations,  that 
the  Francis  papers,  voluminous  as  they  are,  contain  no 
word  of  confession  on  his  part  as  to  the  authorship  of 
Junius.  Nor  do  they  contain,  as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to 
discover,  any  direct  evidence  of  it  whatever.  They  have 
also  been  most  deliberately  mutilated,  evidently  by  Francis' 
own  hand.  Numerous  passages  in  the  letters  addressed 
to  him,  in  the  copies  of  his  own  letters  which  it  was  his 
habit  to  preserve,  in  his  many  fragments  of  journal,  and 
memoranda  of  various  kinds,  have  had  passages  not  merely 
cancelled,  but  carefully  cut  out  with  the  scissors.  No  one 
who  sees  them  could  doubt  that  his  was  a  mind  habitually 
and  excessively  fearful  of  detection.  And  wherever  the 
reader  seems  on  the  point  of  arriving  at  a  clue  which 
might  probably  lead  him  into  the  heart  of  the  Junius 
mystery,  there  the  provoking  excision  is  sure  to  be  met 
with  at  the  critical  point.  The  argument,  therefore,  for 
the  identity  of  Francis  and  Junius  remains  the  same  in 
character  as  it  was  before  the  examination  of  these  papers  ; 
only  it  is  very  greatly  strengthened  and  rendered  more 
complete.  It  is  cumulative.  It  does  not  depend  on  any 
single  quasi-mathematical  proof,  but  on  the  extraordinary 
number  of  convergent  lines  of  reasoning,  all  tending  in  the 
same  direction,  and  (still  more  perhaps)  in  the  total  absence 
of  anything  like  disproof.  It  is  difficult  to  conceive  that 
the  intimate  and  minute  domestic  correspondence  of 
Francis,  the  '  fragment '  of  an  autobiography  which  he 
actually  commenced,  and  his  many  other  manuscript 
records,  would  not  have  indicated  some  fact  irreconcilable 


x  PRELIMINARY   REMARKS. 

with  his  pretensions,  had  those  pretensions  been  unfounded. 
But  every  single  disclosure  which  they  make  tends,  on  the 
other  hand,  towards  establishing  them. 

For  this  part  of  the  subject,  however,  I  wish  to  refer 
the  reader  to  subsequent  portions  of  these  volumes,  and 
in  particular  to  some  observations  which  I  have  inserted 
at  the  beginning  of  Chapter  VI.  I  only  notice  it  now  to 
indicate  the  difficulty  in  which  I  found  myself  placed  in 
dealing  with  the  collections  made  by  Mr.  Parkes.  Had 
Mr.  Parkes  continued  his  researches  on  the  '  Junian ' 
portion  of  the  memoir  with  the  same  minuteness  with 
which  he  had  treated  what  preceded  it,  the  whole  biogra- 
phy must  have  cost  him  ten  or  twenty  years  of  a  life 
already  far  advanced,  and  would  have  occupied  many 
volumes.  I  felt  myself  unequal  to  continuing  it  on  this 
scale  ;  I  doubted  whether  the  public  would  encourage  me 
had  I  attempted  it.  I  therefore  resolved  to  deal  with  the 
4  Junian '  period  as  a  portion  only,  though,  no  doubt,  the 
most  generally  interesting,  of  the  life  of  a  remarkable  and 
hitherto  little  known  man,  and  to  say  no  more  respecting 
it  than  appeared  necessary  in  a  biographical  point  of 
view.  But  the  materials  collected  by  Mr.  Parkes  will 
find,  I  trust,  their  appropriate  place  whenever  it  is  thought 
desirable  to  give  to  the  public  an  edition  of  the  Letters 
of  Junius,  much  more  complete  and  better  annotated 
than  has  as  yet  appeared. 

For  the  ten  years  of  life  which  followed  the  publication 
of  Junius — including  the  whole  of  his  stay  in  India- 
Francis  is  his  own  biographer.  His  industry  in  compil- 
ing, and  care  in  preserving,  what  may  be  termed  manu- 
script records  of  his  acts  and  correspondence  from  day 
to  day,  were  perhaps  almost  unequalled.  Of  this  more  will 


PRELIMINARY  REMARKS. 

be  said  in  its  place  ;  sufficient  for  the  present  to  point  out 
that  Mr.  Parkes  had  not  touched  on  this  portion  of  his 
work  except  by  compiling,  in  the  way  of  anticipation,  a 
few  scattered  memoranda ;  and  that  I  have,  for  my  own 
part,  only  endeavoured  to  compress  into  proportionate 
bulk  the  ample  materials  left  by  Francis  himself.  There 
is  one  circumstance  which  greatly  facilitates  the  accom- 
plishment of  this  task,  namely,  the  singular  terseness  and 
clearness  of  Francis'  style.  Whether  this  quality  was 
more  the  cause  or  the  effect  of  his  constant  study  of 
French  writers,  and  an  intimacy  with  the  French  idiom 
very  rare  in  any  one  who  has  not  resided  in  France,  I 
cannot  tell ;  but  no  one  can  study  his  writings  without 
being  struck  by  it.  Of  all  great  masters  of  our  language 
he  is  perhaps  the  clearest. 

When  Francis  returned  to  England  in  1781,  at  the  age 
of  forty,  his  modest  fortune  was  made,  and  his  official 
career  was  ended.  He  went  into  Parliament  mainly  to 
pursue  his  Indian  course  of  opposition  to  Hastings ;  he 
attained  distinction  there  ;  and  he  devoted  himself,  with 
great  capacities  for  enjoyment  and  activity,  to  social  life, 
particularly  of  a  political  cast.  But  he  ceased  to  dwell  on 
himself;  or  at  least  to  compile,  as  he  had  so  laboriously 
done  before,  materials  for  his  own  biography.  Nor  did 
others  perform  the  service  for  him.  There  is  no  life  of 
Francis  extant ;  nothing  but  a  few  very  imperfect  biogra- 
phical sketches.  He  had  a  numerous  and  attached  family  of 
children  and  grandchildren ;  but  none  of  these  undertook 
or  procured  the  compilation  of  any  memoirs  of  him. 
There  was  one  very  obvious  reason  for  this  omission. 
Late  in  life — at  seventy-five — Sir  Philip  married  a  second 
wife,  who  survived  him  many  years, — Lady  Francis. 


xii  PRELIMINARY  REMARKS. 

She  was  an  old  acquaintance  of  his,  and  inspired  with 
the  most  intense,  not  affection  only,  but  admiration  for 
him.  She  became  the  natural  custodian  of  his  papers, 
and  charged,  in  her  own  opinion,  with  the  care  of  his 
posthumous  fame.  She  was,  moreover,  a  literary  lady, 
a  great  reader,  and  ready  writer  ;  but  she  was  also — it  is 
with  pain  the  editor  indulges  in  so  ungallant  an  avowal 
respecting  the  impression  which  her  remains  have  left  on 
him — one  of  the  most  garrulous,  credulous,  inaccurate, 
and  in  every  way  perplexing,  of  reminiscents.  She 
knew  nothing  of  her  husband  except  what  he  himself 
told  her,  and  chiefly  in  the  very  last  years  of  his  long  life. 
She  has  embodied  these  recollections  in  piles  of  manu- 
script, together  with  voluminous  dissertations  of  her  own 
on  other  subjects.  It  was  her  intention,  for  many  years, 
to  weave  these  into  a  '  Life  *  of  her  husband.  She  seems 
to  have  abandoned  the  project  about  thirty  years  ago,  at 
the  time  when  Sir  Philip's  curious  and  historically  valuable 
library  was  dispersed  by  auction.  The  rough  materials 
collected  by  her  alone  remain  ;  these  were  seen,  and  used 
to  some  extent,  by  Lord  Campbell,  Lord  Stanhope,  and 
Lord  Brougham.  They  have  been  employed  both  by  Mr. 
Parkes  and  myself,  as  far  as  we  thought  we  could  safely 
do  so. 

I  have  therefore  to  say,  in  apology  for  the  disjointed 
and  imperfect  character  of  the  last  portion  of  this  memoir 
of  Sir  Philip,  that  it  is  compiled  without  any  methodical 
assistance  either  from  former  works  or  from  private  infor- 
mation, and  solely  from  such  materials  as  are  scattered 
through  the  Parliamentary  debates,  through  printed 
memoirs  of  the  period,  and  through  those  remnants  of 
correspondence  and  family  records  which  Mr.  Parkes,  in 


PRELIMINARY  REMARKS.  xiii 

his  preface,  has  indicated.  Those  who  have  themselves 
made  the  experiment  will  allow  largely  for  the  imperfec- 
tions of  a  biographical  work  performed  with  no  better 
help  than  this ;  and  I  can  only  throw  myself  upon  the 
indulgence  of  those  who  have  not  had  the  same  expe- 
rience. 


PREFACE. 

[BY  MB.  PAKKBS.] 


THE  PUBLICATION  of  a  Life  and  Correspondence  of  SIR 
PHILIP  FRANCIS,  K.C.B.,  requires  no  justification.  A  few 
particulars  only  of  his  public  career  are  known  to  the 
present  generation,  but  he  is  generally  recognised  as  a 
statesman  of  the  Georgian  Era,  and  a  political  writer  of 
celebrity ;  and  although  numbered  with  the  illustrious 
dead  now  full  forty-six  years,  he  is  still  remembered  and 
mentioned  in  terms  of  high  appreciation  by  our  few 
surviving  public  men  who  personally  knew  him  in  his 
later  years.  By  his  contemporaries  he  was  unquestion- 
ably valued  at  his  true  worth.  Burke,  for  many  years 
his  most  intimate  friend  till  after  political  differences 
lessened  their  social  intercourse,  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, 1783,  characterised  Francis  as  a  man  of  '  deep 
reach  of  thought,'  of  'large  legislative  conception,'  and 
as  the  designer  of  'grand  plans  of  policy.'  Sir  Gilbert 
Elliot,  who  had  held  office  under  Francis  in  India,  in  the 
same  year  and  public  assembly,  pronounced  the  following 
remarkable  eulogium,  to  the  same  effect.1 

In  delivering  my  opinion  of  my  honourable  friend,  I  am  not  so 
madly  vain  as  to  think  it  can  add  anything  to  his  honours :  it  is  not 


Speech  on  Fox 'a  India  Bill,'  December  1,  1783. 


xvi  PREFACE. 

for  him,  Sir,  it  is  to  do  myself  honour,  that  I  say  hero  what  I  have 
often  said  elsewhere,  that  of  all  the  great  and  considerable  men  whom 
this  country  possesses,  there  is  not  one  in  the  empire  who  has  a 
claim  so  much  beyond  all  question,  who  can  show  a  title  so 
thoroughly  authenticated,  as  this  gentleman,  to  the  admiration,  tho 
thanks,  the  reward,  the  love  of  his  country,  and  of  the  world.  If  I 
am  asked  for  proof,  I  say,  the  book  of  his  life  is  open  before  you ;  it 
has  been  read,  it  has  been  examined  in  every  line  by  the  diligent 
inquisition,  the  searching  eye,  of  malice  and  envy.  Has  a  single  blot 
been  found  ?  Is  there  one  page  which  has  not  been  traced  by  virtue 
and  by  wisdom  ?  Virtue,  Sir,  not  of  fhe  cold  and  neutral  quality, 
which  is  contented  to  avoid  reproach  by  shrinking  from  action,  and 
is  tho  best  ally  of  vice ;  but  virtue  fervent,  full  of  ardour,  of  energy, 
of  effect;  wisdom,  Sir,  not  the  mere  flash  of  genius  and  of  talents, 
though  these  are  not  wanting .;  but  wisdom  informed,  deliberate,  and 
profound.  I  know,  Sir,  the  warmth  imputed,  nay,  possessed  by 
that  character  ;  it  is  a  warmth  which  does  but  burnish  all  his  other 
virtues.  His  heart  is  warm,  his  judgment  is  cool,  and  the  latter  .of 
these  features  none  will  deny,  except  those  who  have  not  examined 
or  wish  to  disbelieve  it. 

The  Commons  Committee  of  Management  of  Hastings' 
Impeachment,  on  the  rejection  by  the  House  of  Francis 
as  one  of  its  number,  presented  him  with  an  address, 
drawn  up  by  Burke  as  Chairman,  which  thus  panegyrised 
his  career  in  India. 

An  exact  obedience  to  the  authority  placed  over  you  by  the  laws 
of  your  country,  wise  and  steady  principles  of  government,  an  in- 
flexible integrity  in  yourself,  and  a  firm  resistance  to  all  corrupt 
practice  in  others,  crowned  by  an  uniform  benevolent  attention  to 
the  right,  properties,  and  welfare  of  the  natives,  appear  eminently 
throughout  those  records.  Such  a  conduct,  so  tried,  acknowledged, 
and  recorded,  demands  our  fullest  confidence.  These,  Sir,  are  the 
qualities,  and  this  is  the  conduct  on  your  part,  on  which  we  ground 
our  wishes  for  your  assistance. 

This  address  of  nineteen  members  of  the  Committee 
contained  the  names  of  Burke,  Fox,  Sheridan,  Charles 
(late  Earl)  Grey,  Gilbert  Elliot,  Wyndham,  T.  Pelham, 
W.  Adams,  Maitland,  G.  A.  North,  E.  Fitzpatrick,  James 


PREFACE.  xvii 

Erskine,  Eoger  Wilbraham,  and  other  eminent  public 
men,  who  never  could  have  attached  their  signatures  to 
a  simply  unfounded  or  fulsome  panegyric. 

Lord  Brougham  in  his  Historical  Sketches  of  the 
Statesmen  of  the  time  of  George  III.,  has  chronicled 
Sir  Philip  Francis  (whom  he  personally  knew)  among 
the  most  remarkable  men  of  the  age.  He  estimates 
'  his  style  of  writing  as  admirable  ;  excelling  in  clearness, 
abounding  in  happy  idiomatic  terms,  not  overloaded  with 
either  words  or  figures,  but  not  rejecting  either  beautiful 
phrases  or  appropriate  ornament ; '  and  all  his  composi- 
tions '  so  pellucid  as  to  leave  no  cloud  whatever  over  the 
meaning.' 

But  the  eminent  merits  of  Francis  were  his  inestimable 
services  to  our  country  at  a  great  crisis  of  its  con- 
stitutional liberties,  in  political  writings  hitherto  mostly 
unknown  as  his,  because  never  acknowledged  by  their 
author. 

The  present  volumes  will  prove,  that  in  his  youthful 
years  he  was,  by  his  pen,  the  able  and  disinterested  op- 
ponent of  general  warrants,  arbitrary  imprisonments,  and 
seizures  of  private  papers ;  and  that,  almost  single-handed, 
he  stood  forward  the  bold,  undaunted,  and  opportune 
advocate  of  a  Free  Press,  the  Eights  of  Juries,  and  the 
publicity  of  Parliamentary  Debates.  He  was,  in  fact, 
the  real  parent  of  '  Fox's  Libel  Act,'  and  also  the 
sole  draftsman  of  the  memorable  plan  of  the  Society  of 
the  Friends  of  the  People,  in  1794,  the  basis  of  the 
Eeform  Acts  of  1832.  His  labours  for  the  abolition  of 
Negro  Slavery,  his  eloquent  speeches  in  Parliament,  his 
powerful  and  unceasing  protests  against  the  extension  of 

our  Indian  Empire,  with  his  advocacy  of  peace  among 
VOL  i.  a 


xviii  PREFACE. 

civilised  nations,  were  second  to  the  performances  of  none 
of  his  distinguished  contemporaries.  Such  a  man  can 
well  afford  to  be  assayed  by  posterity,  and  he  would 
himself  desire  to  be  pourtrayed  in  his  true  character, 
with  all  his  human  frailties  unconcealed. 

The  demonstration  of  the  Authorship  of  the  Letters  of 
JUNIUS  was  no  original  or  primary  object  of  these  volumes ; 
but  that  enquiry,  so  far  as  regards  the  claim  of  Francis 
to  a  questionable  merit,  was  an  unavoidable  investigation. 
The  controversy,  of  itself,  would  never  have  attracted 
from  the  Biographer  any  sacrifice  of  time  ;  but  necessarily 
involved  in  it,  he  did  not,  as  a  lawyer,  doubt  that,  rightly 
and  patiently  pursued,  success  must  follow.  Junius  was 
no  automaton :  he  may  long  have  concealed  the  secret 
sources  of  his  private  information,  and  for  half  a  century 
have  evaded  a  complete  demonstration  of  his  personal 
identity.  But  an  enquiry,  commenced  de  novo  and 
pursued  in  the  natural  and  legal  methods  of  investigating 
pedigrees,  could  scarcely  fail  to  discover  such  a  mass  of 
direct  and  indirect  evidence  as,  logically  and  fully  ac- 
cumulated, must  unavoidably  fix  the  authorship  beyond 
doubt  or  future  controversy.  Ample  sources  and  materials 
palpably  existed,  if  an  indefatigable  research  had  been 
instituted.  Whatever  subtle  and  determined  endeavours 
Junius  might  have  practised  to  be  to  the  end  of  life  the 
*  sole  depositary  of  his  own  secret,'  discovery  was  almost 
sure  after  his  death,  at  some  not  distant  period.  It  was 
patent,  that  the  superior  force  and  style  of  the  Letters 
were  those  of  a  long  practised  pen.  Occupying  a  period 
of  several  years,  and  detailing  numerous  official  circum- 
stances with  microscopic  comments  on  public  characters, 
how  could  the  writer  escape  ultimate  discovery  unless, 


PREFACE.  six 

previous  to  death,  he  destroyed  all  his  private  papers  and 
books,  and  burnt  the  catalogue  of  his  library  ? 

The  authorship  of  Junius  has  been  confidently  ascribed 
to  thirty-seven  different  individuals,  and  innumerable 
controversial  works,  periodical  and  newspaper  articles  on 
the  vexed  question,  have  emanated  from  our  own  and 
foreign  presses.  The  late  Mr.  John  Taylor  first  raised  a 
claim  for  Sir  Philip  Francis,  in  his  '  Identity  of  Junius 
with  a  distinguished  Living  Character,'  in  1812 ;  but 
without  sufficient  materials  of  absolute  proof.  Mr.  Taylor, 
considering  his  limited  circumstantial  proofs,  and  his  entire 
want  of  all  direct  evidence,  raised  a  remarkable  and  most 
singular  argument. 

So  curious  and  interesting  an  enquiry  could  not,  there- 
fore, be  ignored  in  any  biography  of  Francis.  The 
settlement  of  the  Junius  Question,  so  far  as  concerns  this 
claim  for  Francis,  was  therefore  unavoidable  ;  the  play 
of  Hamlet  would  be  nothing  with  the  part  of  Hamlet 
omitted.  But  the  Biographer,  although  familiar  with 
every  page  of  the  singular  and  hitherto  endless  contro- 
versial publications  in  which  that  question  has  been 
discussed,  now  seeks  to  solve  the  problem  by  an  entirely 
new  process.  He  had  noticed  that  almost  every  writer 
except  Mr.  Taylor,  and  Mr.  W.  T.  Smith  (the  last  partisan 
of  Lord  Temple's  claim),  '  reasoning  backwards,'  had  com- 
menced their  researches  on  the  false  basis  of  a  precon- 
ceived theory  on  the  Junius  authorship,  often  keeping  back 
facts  that  militated  against  their  hypothesis,  or  overlooking 
counter  circumstances.  The  late  Mr.  Thomas  Wentworth 
Dilke,  in  a  series  of  able  articles  in  the  '  Athenaeum '  and 
'  Notes  and  Queries,'  has  critically  exposed  the  insuffi- 
ciency of  evidence  of  all  the  false  claims ;  still  con- 

a2 


xx  PREFACE. 

sidering  that  for  Sir  Philip  Francis  '  unproven '  and  im- 
probable. Impressed  by  these  instructive  articles,  and 
by  a  most  able  paper  of  M.  Charles  de  Remusat  in 
the  '  Revue  des  Deux  Mondes,'  a  wholly  new  system 
of  research  and  logical  deduction  has  been  pursued ; 
with  what  success  the  reader  must  judge  for  himself. 
First,  the  Letters,  and  Miscellaneous  Letters  ascribed 
to  Junius,  were  analysed  for  their  internal  evidence  of 
authorship.  Secondly,  as  the  undisputed  unquestionable 
productions  of  his  pen  were  stamped  by  an  unmistakable 
personal  knowledge  of  the  English  War  and  Commissariat 
Offices,  and  denoted  not  only  an  intimate  acquaintance 
with  the  names  and  duties  of  those  departments,  but  of 
the  secondary  Civil  Service  of  our  other  public  offices, 
the  records  of  the  two  offices  were  sought ;  and  though 
Lord  Macaulay,  when  Secretary  at  War  in  1840,  had,  on 
enquiries,  believed  them  to  have  been  4  wasted,'  they  were 
ultimately  found  to  be  extant  in  a  store  of  Chelsea 
Hospital,  probably  placed  there  on  one  of  the  many 
changes  of  the  War  Offices.  Subsequently  a  complete 
set  of  the  old  Office  Letter  Books,  comprising  the  period 
from  17GO  to  1774  (excepting  one  missing  volume)  were 
discovered  in  a  press  of  the  Treasury.  By  the  liberal 
permission  of  the  present  Earl  Dalhousie,  and  the  aid  of 
a  friend,  the  late  Sir  Benjamin  Hawes,  access  to  and  use 
of  these  valuable  documents  was  obtained.  They  have 
brought  to  light  much  valuable  matter.  Access  also  was 

o  c 

given  to  the  records  of  the  Home  Office  by  the  late 
Sir  G.  C.  Lewis,  who  took  a  special  interest  in  these 
enquiries,  not  doubting  that  such  researches  were  the 
proper  clues  to  the  labyrinth  of  doubt  and  mystery. 
His  lamented  death  has  deprived  these  volumes  of  his 


PREFACE.  xxi 

promised  judgment  and  review.  Further,  the  Chatham 
public  correspondence,  preserved  in  the  old  State  Paper 
Office  (since  removed  to  the  Eolls)  afforded  valuable 
materials  in  dates  and  other  facts.  The  bulky  old  law 
papers  of  the  Treasury  being  also  transferred  to  the 
same  depository,  and  being  now  well  arranged,  the 
pleadings,  jury  lists,  briefs  and  papers  of  the  prosecutions 
of  Wilkes,  and  of  the  publishers  of  the  '  Junius's  Letter 
to  the  King,'  were  found ;  the  Master  of  the  Eolls,  Sir 
John  Eomilly,  as  always,  giving  the  freest  access  to  our 
invaluable  public  records  now  brought  together  and 
rendered  doubly  useful  in  the  Eolls  Buildings.  The  old 
India  House  Papers,  in  1858,  the  best  arranged  and 
most  accessible  of  any  public  records,  by  the  aid  of 
Colonel  Sykes,  afforded  many  materials  connected  with 
the  administration  of  that  great  appanage  of  our  Empire 
when  under  the  joint  (or  disjointed)  administration  of 
Hastings,  Clavering,  Monson,  and  Francis.  No  fact  or 
date  has  been  taken  for  granted,  if  extant  original 
documents  afforded  tests.  Further,  a  recognition  of  the 
use  of  most  valuable  private  family  papers  is  due  to 
Mr.  Calcraft,  which  contributed  curious  new  informa- 
tion on  the  confidential  relations  subsisting  between  his 
grandfather,  Mr.  John  Calcraft,  and  Francis.  Colonel 
Pringle  permitted  a  re-examination  of  the  printed  and 
unpublished  '  Chatham  Correspondence.'  The  Chatham 
papers  showed  another  seal  as  used  by  Junius,  and 
afforded  evidence  of  the  same  paper  having  been  used 
by  Junius  to  Woodfall,  and  the  Earl.  Mr.  Murray,  the 
eminent  publisher,  now  the  owner  of  the  '  Grenville 
Junius  Letters,'  allowed  those  original  papers  for  fresh 
examination,  and  the  opinions  of  experts  of  experience. 


xxii  PREFACE. 

The  private  family  papers  of  several  of  the  most  colour- 
able claimants  to  the  Junius  authorship,  and  the  cata- 
logues of  their  private  libraries,  were  also  examined 
for  disproof  of  such  pretensions,  or  were  looked  over  by 
their  possessors.  In  many  cases  they  yielded  indisputable 
evidence  of  n<w-authorship,  being  so  far  useful  as  negative 
proofs.  Mr.  H.  J.  Woodfall  trustfully  lent  the  entire  Junius 
MSS.  of  his  grandfather  the  publisher  of  the  celebrated 
'  Letters '  for  re-collations,  and  a  more  full  investigation  of 
the  handwritings,  writing  papers,  and  seals.  Also  he 
lately  found  numerous  editorial  manuscripts  and  corre- 
spondence of  his  grandfather  of  essential  value  in  this 
new  Junius  investigation.  All  these  are  now  by  purchase 
the  property  of  the  Biographer.  The  Junius  MSS.  com- 
prise the  proof  sheets,  with  the  manuscripts  of  the  notes 
to  the  'Author's  Edition'  of  Junius  in  1772.  The 
latter,  though  often  examined,  do  not  appear  to  have 
received  due  attention.  In  many  instances  the  natural 
hand  of  the  writer,  and  the  numeral  figures  of  Junius 
are  less  feigned,  and  are  even  occasionally  written  in  a 
natural  hand. 

As  biography  is  properly  defined  to  be  'a  branch  of 
history,'  the  public  has  a  claim  and  a  right  to  know 
the  authority  and  sources  of  the  materials  which  constitute 
such  compilations,  especially  when  the  contents  are  new, 
and  relate  to  the  acts  and  private  character  of  public 
men  of  a  byegone  period.  It  is,  therefore,  necessary 
briefly  to  state  the  origin  of  these  volumes,  and  to 
account  for  such  valuable  biographical  and  historical 
materials  having  so  long  rested,  unpublished,  and  un- 
known. 

Sir  Philip  Francis  died  in  1818.      By  his  will   his 


PREFACE.  xxiii 

library  and  private  papers  were  to  continue  in  his 
house,  in  St.  James's  Square,  Westminster,  so  long  as 
his  surviving  widow  and  second  wife  continued  to 
reside  there,  Mr.  Philip  Francis,  the  only  son  by  the 
first  marriage,  having  the  reversionary  interest.  The  late 
Mr.  Dubois,  a  friend  and  occasional  voluntary  private 
amanuensis  of  Sir  Philip  Francis,  early  desired,  with  Lady 
Francis,  that  a  life  should  be  prepared  and  published, 
comprising  also  a  selection  of  the  papers  and  corre- 
spondence. The  son  objected  to  such  an  undertaking,  as 
premature,  and  as  he  was  himself  the  friend  of  several 
noble  families,  who,  it  was  feared,  would  be  displeased  by 
so  early  an  appearance  of  a  Francis  biography.  After 
the  death  of  Mr.  Philip  Francis,  the  son,  the  entire  library 
of  Sir  Philip,  by  a  family  arrangement  between  Lady 
Francis  and  the  grandchildren,  was  unfortunately  dis- 
persed in  three  days  by  public  auction,  under  the  hammer 
of  the  late  Mr.  Leigh  Sotheby.  The  library  of  a  public 
and  literary  man  is  usually  a  key  to  his  self-education, 
and  favourite  studies.  In  the  instance  of  the  Francis 
Collection  its  sale  was  particularly  to  be  regretted,  because 
numerous  political  volumes,  and  files  of  newspapers, 
many  series  of  pamphlets,  fully  noted  by  their  original 
owner,  were  scattered  throughout  the  kingdom.  The 
library  comprised  the  earliest  and  best  editions  of  the 
'  Junius  Letters,'  full  of  manuscripts,  corrections,  and 
remarks,  and  other  historical  and  political  works,  simi- 
larly noted.  Fortunately  the  copies  of  '  Junius '  were 
bought  in  by  the  two  oldest  grandsons,  Mr.  Henry  J. 
Francis,  and  Mr.  John  G.  Francis ;  and  the  latter  also 
purchased,  in  one  lot,  eighty-six  volumes,  described  in  the 
catalogue  as  '  Political  and  Historical  Tracts  '  '  as  a  most 


xxiv  PREFACE. 

curious  and  interesting  collection  from  the  commence- 
ment of  the  reign  of  George  III.'  These  volumes  have 
yielded  important  materials,  and  their  value  previous 
to  their  present  use  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
appreciated.  The  old  sale  catalogue,  priced,  with  the 
purchasers'  names,  having  been  liberally  given  by  Messrs. 
Sotheby  to  the  British  Museum,  almost  all  the  other 
volumes  of  use  for  the  present  purpose  have  been,  after 
much  labour,  traced  to  their  present  possessors,  who 
have  liberally  lent  them  for  examination  and  extract. 

The  late  Lady  Francis,  on  Mr.  Philip  Francis's  death, 
essayed  to  write  a  memoir  of  her  husband  with  the  inten- 
tion of  publication  ;  and  she  produced  a  voluminous  mass 
of  manuscript ;  but,  although  containing  many  interesting 
anecdotes,  and  some  usable  facts  and  personal  reminis- 
cences, her  collections  were  too  confusedly  and  imper- 
fectly compiled  to  be  fit  for  publication,  and  have 
remained  unpublished.  In  1847  she  gave  them  over  to  her 
husband's  grandson,  Mr.  Henry  J.  Francis,  with  the  object 
of  his  undertaking  a  full  biography  and  selection  from  the 
voluminous  correspondence.  Mr.  Henry  J.  Francis  un- 
dertook at  least  to  assist  in  the  labour,  and  contracted 
with  the  late  Mr.  Colburn  the  bookseller  for  the  projected 
work,  placing  some  of  the  materials  in  his  hands  for 
copies.  These  were  submitted  by  Mr.  Colburn  to  the 
late  Mr.  J.  Wright,  and,  after  his  death,  to  Mr.  Bell ;  but 
the  latter  gentleman,  after  a  partial  examination,  declined 
to  smelt  such  a  mass  of  ore.  A  large  number  of  copies 
of  Sir  Philip  Francis's  private  correspondence  (Mr.  H. 
J.  Francis  having  retained  the  originals),  and  the  greater 
portion  of  the  original  Indian  papers,  remained  in  the 
hands  of  Mr.  Colburn  till  his  decease,  and  thence  passed 


PREFACE.  xxv 

into  the  possession  of  that  publisher's  executors.  By  the 
liberal  intervention  of  Mr.  John  Forster,  all  were  finally 
released  to  the  Francis  family  for  use  in  these  volumes. 

Mr.  Henry  J.  Francis  having  left  England  for  the 
Australian  Bar,  leaving  authority  with  his  sister,  Miss 
Francis,  for  other  boxes  of  family  papers  to  be  searched, 
and  even  manuscripts  of  value  to  be  given  to  the  Bio- 
grapher for  examination  and  use,  these  fortunately 
brought  to  light  several  volumes  of  Sir  Philip  Francis's 
early  private  exercises  in  composition,  his  partial  trans- 
lations of  classical  works,  his  numerous  notes  of  readings, 
and  various  memoranda  of  his  observations  on  men  and 
manners  in  his  foreign  travels.  These  additional  materials 
comprised,  moreover,  two  manuscript  journals ;  one,  an 
almost  daily  record  of  his  travels  in  Belgium,  France,  and 
Italy,  in  1773  ;  the  other,  a  laconic  but  valuable  journal 
of  his  India  private  and  public  life,  of  almost  daily  entry, 
but  with  many  pages  and  some  passages  in  extant  leaves 
cut  out,  doubtless  by  himself.  There  was  also  a  large 
mass  of  India  official  MS.  papers,  chiefly  financial,  which 
had  apparently  never  been  sorted  or  arranged  since 
Francis's  return  from  Calcutta,  or  ever  examined  by  the 
family,  as  among  them  was  found  the  fragment  of  a 
manuscript  autobiography,  much  also  mutilated  by 
scissors.  This  document  was  almost  certainly  written  in 
India,  being  on  the  same  paper  used  in-  Calcutta.  It  is 
most  probable  that  he  wrote  the  memoir,  fearing  a 
premature  close  of  his  life  in  an  Indian  climate ;  but  that, 
having  survived  the  risk,  on  more  mature  reflection  he 
cancelled  many  parts  of  it.  The  portions  undestroyed 
supply  some  remarkable  details  of  his  earlier  life  and 
opinions. 


xxvi  PREFACE. 

Miss  Cholmondeley,  one  of  his  grand-daughters,  pos- 
sessed the  private  letters  of  Sir  Philip  to  his  first  wife, 
fifty-two  in  number,  between  the  years  1761  and  1774,  of 
which  much  use  has  been  made.  Lady  Francis,  the 
second  wife,  having,  it  was  known,  possessed  herself  of 
some  of  the  papers  for  her  intended  memoir,  enquiry 
was  made  of  her  aged  surviving  sister.  That  lady 
restored  all  in  her  possession,  comprising  several  valuable 
manuscripts,  particularly  a  memoir  of  Charles  James 
Fox  (prepared  for  the  press),  and  other  political  and 
historical  manuscripts,  with  cuttings  of  old  newspaper 
articles  preserved  by  Sir  Philip.  Unfortunately,  elaborate 
and  matured  manuscript  characters  of  Burke  and  Wynd- 
ham,  known  to  be  extant  after  Francis's  decease,  can 
nowhere  be  discovered.  •  They  were  extant  some  years 
since,  and  may  probably  have  been  lent,  and  not  returned 
by  the  borrowers.  If  this  notice  should  lead  to  their 
finding,  their  communication  to  the  Biographer  will  be  a 
great  treasure  trove.  The  loss  of  the  character  of  Burke 
by  so  discriminating  a  writer  as  Sir  Philip  Francis,  who 
highly  valued  that  eminent  public  man,  but  who  also 
penetrated  his  weaknesses,  would  be  irreparable  ;  and  as 
a  true  estimate  of  Burke  by  a  competent  and  impartial 
contemporary  has  long  been  desired.  Such  a  manuscript 
never  could  have  been  wilfully  destroyed,  except  for  the 
extinction  of  biographical  truth. 

The  Barringtou  family  papers  never  having  been 
examined  for  any  correspondence  of  Lord  Barrington 
with  D'Oyly  and  Francis,  on  their  retirement  from  the 
War  Office  in  1772-3,  application  was  made  to  the 
present  Lord  Barrington,  who  unsuccessfully  searched  for 
any ;  but  some  letters  from  Mr.  Anthony  Chamier  (the 


PREFACE.  xxvii 

successor  of  D'Oyly)  were  kindly  communicated  by  his 
lordship.  They,  and  some  other  family  records,  have 
afforded  materials  towards  a  full  and  correct  account  of 
Anthony  Chamier,  so  unmercifully  satirised  by  Junius. 
A  member  of  the  Chamier  family,  Mr.  Daniel  Chamier, 
settled  in  Maryland,  U.S.,  being  a  British  Commissary 
of  Stores,  and  auditor  of  public  accounts.  He  died  in 
New  York,  1775,  but,  leaving  no  issue,  his  papers  cannot 
be  traced.  It  would  otherwise  have  been  curious  to  have 
discovered,  whether  Lord  Barrington  or  Anthony  Chamier 
had  any  suspicions  of  the  authorship  of  the  later  '  Mis- 
cellaneous Letters  of  Juriius '  under  the  signatures  of 
Veteran,  Scotus,  and  Nemesis.  Added  to  these  new 
Junius  materials  the  Biographer  had  purchased  the  papers 
of  some  deceased  distinguished  writers  on  the  Junius  ques- 
tion, viz.  those  of  Mr.  Britton,  Mr.  Henry  Edmund  Barker, 
and  Sir  Harris  Nicolas.  To  some  members  of  the  American 
branch  of  the  Francis  family,  settled  in  the  United  States, 
he  is  indebted  for  several  private  letters  of  Sir  Philip. 

On  the  commencement  of  the  work  little  was  known 
by  the  English  family  of  its  Irish  ancestry  and  relatives, 
Dr.  Francis's  early  settlement  in  London,  about  1747, 
having  severed  their  intercourse.  Sir  Philip  Francis's 
papers  containing  important  letters  from  relations  of 
the  name  of  Baggs,  and  some  confidential  communi- 
cations between  1767  and  1773,  it  was  desirable  to 
ascertain  their  exact  degree  of  relationship,  and  earlier 
social  connection.  The  indefatigable  and  accomplished 
Irish  Ulster  King  at  Arms,  Sir  Bernard  Burke,  by  re- 
searches in  the  Eecord  Offices,  and  diocesan  records  of 
Ireland,  and  of  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  willingly  and 
successfully  established  these  consanguinities. 


xxviii  PREFACE. 

These  particular  acknowledgments  ought  to  have  been 
extended  to  a  recognition  of  assistances  from  many 
personal  and  literary  friends,  but  for  the  number  of 
the  obligations. 

It  now  only  remains  to  be  stated,  that  one  of  the 
greatest  labours  has  been  the  digest  and  abridgment  of 
such  an  unusually  large  mass  of  materials,  especially  m  a 
first  selection  from  many  thousand  letters.  This  is  not 
the  age  for  heavy  tomes,  and  critical  public  opinion  has 
justly  decided  that  many  modern  similar  publications 
have  been  overloaded,  especially  with  letters  of  useless  or 
secondary  import.  An  endeavour  has  been  made  to  keep 
within  compass  commentary  on  the  many  political  events 
and  characters  treated  by  Sir  Philip  Francis.  His 
opinions,  and  not  those  of  his  Biographer,  are  the  main 
subjects  of  interest  to  the  public.  The  life,  therefore,  has 
been  made  as  autobiographical  as  possible. 

The  anecdotes  and  correspondence  might  have  been 
heightened  in  interest  by  many  piquant  and  scandal- 
ous stories  of  '  men  and  manners,'  always  abound- 
ing in  the  private  epistolary  intercourse,  male  and 
female,  of  the  higher  classes  of  political  and  fashion- 
able society.  But  such  scandal  and  gossip  were  never 
intended  for  the  public  eye  ;  they  do  not  contribute  to 
the  morality  of  any  class  ;  and  many  such  stories,  some 
well-founded,  and  others  probably  pure  inventions,  might 
wound  the  feelings  of  surviving  descendants.  Besides,  the 
cruel  and  groundless  aspersion  of  women  of  high  life, 
especially  in  our  own  times,  is  well  known.  The  reputa- 
tion of  the  dead  is  not  less  entitled  to  protection,  if  not 
more  so,  than  the  characters  of  the  living.  No  man  more 
bitterly  regretted  the  severity  of  some  of  his  earlier 


PREFACE.  xxix 

writings  than  Sir  Philip  Francis  ;  and  no  popular  author 
ever  perhaps  paid  so  memorable  a  penalty  for  the  in- 
dulgence of  extraordinary  natural  powers  of  wit,  sarcasm, 
and  satire.  His  Biographer  has  seen  too  much  of  political 
parties,  and  lived  too  long  in  public  life  in  the  last  half 
century,  to  set  up  an  idol  by  the  deification  of  any  political 
man.  Hero-worship  is  the  superstition  of  writers  of 
cramped  minds,  and  of  credulous  readers.  But  no  in- 
cident in  the  life  of  Francis,  essential  to  the  true  and  full 
development  of  his  real  character,  has  been  suppressed, 
and  no  partial  exaggeration  of  his  virtues  or  concealment 
of  his  failings  has  been  wilfully  indulged.1 


17  WIMPOLE  STREET,  LONDON  : 
1865. 


1  Mr.  Parkes's  Preface  contained  acknowledgments  of  the  communication 
of  some  other  papers  which  he  deemed  of  value ;  but  as  these  have  not  been 
used  by  the  present  editor,  the  passages  iu  question  have  been  omitted. 


CONTENTS 

OF 

THE      FIEST      VOLUME. 


CHAPTER  I. 

EARLY    TEARS. 
[17-40—1758.] 

Parentage  and  family  of  Philip  Francis — His  education  at  St.  Paul's  School 
— Appointed  to  a  clerkship  in  the  Secretary  of  State's  Office  by  Lord 
Holland — His  relations  with  Mr.  Calcraft  and  Robert  Wood — Acts  as 
secretary  to  Gen.  Bligh  on  his  expedition  to  Cherbourg  .  .  PAGE  1 

CHAPTER   II. 

PORTUGUESE    MISSION — LOVE   AND    MARRIAGE. 
[^E-r.  20—23.] 

Francis  goes  to  Portugal  as  secretary  to  Lord  Kinnoul,  1760,  and  returns — 
His  studies  and  literary  compositions — Engagement  and  marriage  with 
Miss  Macrabie,  1761 — Under  Lord  Egremont  as  secretary  for  the  Northern 
Department,  1762 — *  First  Clerk'  in  the  War  Office,  1762 — Resignation 
of  Lord  Bute,  and  consequent  political  changes,  1763  ...  25 

CHAPTER   III. 

FRANCIS    AND   THE    PRESS. 
[JET.  23—24.] 

Francis's  early  writings  for  the  newspaper  press — Becomes  a  correspondent 
(anonymous)  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  1764 — Embraces  the  cause  of 
Wilkes — The  (  Candor  '  pamphlets — Domestic  affairs — '  Enquiry  into  the 
doctrine  of  Libels,'  Rex  v.  Almon ,  .  68 

CHAPTER  IV. 

FRANCIS   AND   THE    PRESS — continued. 

[;ET.  24—28.] 

Contributions  to  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  1765-1766— Anti-Sejanus  — 
Francis's  habit  of  attending  the  debates  in  Parliament — His  variations  of 
opinion  respecting  the  policy  and  character  of  Pitt — Effect  on  him  of  Pitt's 


xxxii  CONTENTS. 

acceptance  of  a  peerage,  1766— The  Chatham  ministry — The  embargo  on 
the  exportation  of  grain — Supposed  contributions  of  1767— Visit  to  the 
Continent  that  year— Attacks  on  Lord  Towhshend— The  '  Grand  Coun- 
cil'— Supports  George  Grenville's  American  policy — Lord  Barrington 
Secretary  at  War PAGE  102 

CHAPTER  V. 

FRANCIS   AND   THE    PRESS Continued. 

[Mr.  28.] 

Anonymous  letters  to  Lord  Chatham,  1768 — Wilkes's  election  for  Middlesex 
— Meninou — liifrons — Note  on  the  burning  of  the  Jesuit  books         .     170 

CHAPTER  VI. 

COMMENCEMENT   OF   JDNIUS. 
[^ET.  29.] 

Relations  between  Wilkes  and  Junius,  1768 — Correspondence  with  l)r. 
Francis  and  others — Anonymous  letters  to  George  Grenville  .  .  197 

CHAPTER  VII. 

JUNIDS. 
[JET.  29—32.] 

First  letter  of  the  Junius  collection,  Jan.  21,  1769 — Draper  correspondence — 
Rosenhagen  and  Dr.  Johnson — Coincidence  of  subjects  between  the 
Junius  letters  and  Francis's  domestic  correspondence — The  Address  to 
the  King — Reports  of  Lord  Chatham's  speeches — Lord  North  Premier — 
Absences  of  Francis  from  town  coincident  with  cessations  of  Junius — 
Affair  of  the  Falkland  Islands — Charles  Fox  and  '  Ulysses  '—Political 
disappointment  of  Francis  and  Calcraft — Junius  and  Home— Imperfect 
legal  knowledge  of  Junius— Conclusion  of  Junius,  1772 — Quarrel  with 
Lord  Barrington — Francis  leaves  the  War  Office — His  relations  with 
Calcraft  at  this  time — Had  Junius  confederates  ?  .  .  .  .  223 

CHAPTER  VIH. 

APPOINTMENT   TO   INDIA. 
[JET.  32—34.] 

Continental  tour  with  Godfrey,  1772— Interview  with  Pope  Clement  XIV. — 
Death  of  Calcraft — Return  to  England — Death  of  Dr.  Francis — Visit  to 
Amsterdam — Appointment  to  the  Council  of  Bengal — Supposed  reasons 
for  ,it — Relations  with  Lord  Barrington — Francis  visits  Lord  Clive — 
Family  letters — India  House  disputes  about  Instructions  under  the  Regu- 
lation Act — Pecuniary  affairs  of  Francis — He  sails  April,  1774  .  303 


OF  THE  FIEST  VOLUME.  xxxiii 


APPENDIX. 

NO.  PAGE 

I.  Fragment  of  Autobiography 353 

II.  Rough  Notes,  by  W.  Parkes,  on  the  MSS.  of  the  Private  Letters 

of 'Junius'to  Woodfall .  371 

III.  Memoranda    of   Conversation  between   Mr.  Parkes  and  Miss 

.      Woodfall 381 

IV.  Remarks  on 'Junius,' by  Dr.  Francis 384 

V.  Verses  (by  the  first  Lord  Holland  ?)  on  his  return  from  Italy,  1767  388 

VI.  Report  by  Francis  of  a  Speech  of  Lord  Chatham  (Feb.  2, 1770)  390 

VII.  Letter  from  Francis  to  Calcraft,  1770 394 

VIII.  Hints  to  a  Traveller,  1772 399 

IX.  Letter  of  Francis  on  the  Education  of  his  Son  ....  403 

X.  Letters  to  Francis  from  America,  1767-73 412 


ILLUSTKATION. 

PORTRAIT  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  after  a  painting  by 

J.  Hoppner,  R.A .        Frontispiece. 


VOL.  I. 


SJ~ 


S3 

3  ."     CO 

ID     -j-   p  | 

JHG,                 S  . 

jl  Ji  • 

ct         __  ^* 

Q    i                                 K  a  >> 
Pf  3   w 

y  ."S  "T 

O    4_T     a 

55  L^  "m 

.—  pjD  ~^ 

113 

S                    £»  S  «  'g 

^    £    0 

S  s^5 

—  1-^»  *5  ^^  o 

S  *3 

2"S       1 

rt  ^3  |J3 

c«  ^,    <D 

H.S    «g 

IB| 

00             ^_> 

^  ^  [5  o 

H    S        ^3 
H  "-    •-   fl 

°l6      . 

ll^s 
a  -S| 

III" 

^               g  ^    >%^ 

^  t^ 

S  «  a 

^^                   S    G    S    o 

•"3     4^ 

Cfi     o  H-l 

t* 

l|^| 

*»  "^  ® 

jjjj 

1                -«& 

~%fji^ 

^3  *^     S 

^H 

ro   C                    SH  *1™1  JH 

rt  c  ^ 

"~"     fi 

.^*H 

»PQ  *^<                        h^     5s   "^ 

•  ^3 

p  »S  'UX 

^^H 

N 

K  T  .       r-> 

6  o 

"^ 

PL, 

. 

—  3  |,5  

Ss^l 

H, 

S  ~ 

<n 

^^      CO   Ct_i 

"E 

i  JS  •  2 

THE  FEANCIS 

«T 

fn 

1 

3 

IH 

o 

a 

i- 

«r 

I 

hH     0 
g 

§? 

ij;    e    o  i—  t 

1728. 
Rev.  STEPHEN, 
Vicar  of  Kilmacabee,  &c.  I 
(Issue). 

1768. 
PHELIP, 
m.  1805,  Eliza  Jane, 
daughter  of  Godshall 
Johnson,  of  Putney. 
(Issue). 

view  of  enabling  the  reader  to 
I  ends  with  the  death  of  Sir  ] 
>oks,  containing  letters  from  ] 
morbum  filiae.' 

P^ 

£         S  SW 

•1  s-0  * 

O 

o        .         s  n  M  «  So 

^*O  K> 

«5  g"'E  2  .8 

ill  a- 

*~5                                                  l»    t-j  ^J  O  i—  I 

CD    03    ^      ^^ 

^  *C  1—l  "C 

&3 

r-y-] 

°      fi      "wrf-ogf 

t-  «  S  <M^ 
^  -«i  c    •  -s 

flj    P    C    « 

III  I 

fy» 

(S   r^ 

'C  ^ 

'     Tj     33     05  'C 

p^H 

^      . 

<D  -^  -^     Q 

O 

t—  1 

i-T     -^                                     ^      "  "*  *^         • 

MM                      B  f  ^_,  «O 

s  I*3  "S 

0 

«£               ~S^'^§ 

. 

8"g  S  « 

w 

3  --             3  ~  <j  rt 

hf^O 

^  &,  «  S~ 

PM 

B 

^  1  1  " 

'J   g  'g  | 

S  ^  s  2" 

J3~    O  'r\    u 

«f  a  *•* 

^  9  a 

-2     °     K^>  ^" 

TJ                             ^S^ 

pq  ^3* 

'S'p  "°-5 

»"                           &)•<*  "2 

^  i-s 

50    08  ^  S 

OS  Oi                      rt    .J  .^ 

5^  fl  S'g 

l?.t!  "C    fl 

."  S  $  § 

•    _lffi 

CO    «"  | 

|fj{ 

MEMOIES    AND     CO RBESPONDENCE 


SIR  PHILIP  FRMCIS,   K.C.B, 


CHAPTEE  I. 

EARLY   YEAES. 

[1740-1758.] 

Parentage  and  Family  of  Philip  Francis — His  Education  at  St.  Paul's 
School — Appointed  to  a  Clerkship  in  the  Secretary  of  State's  Office 
by  Lord  Holland — His  relations  with  Mr.  Calcraft  and  Robert  Wood — 
Acts  as  Secretary  to  General  Bligh  on  his  Expedition  to  Cherbourg. 

PHILIP  FRANCIS,  the  subject  of  this  biography,  was  a  native 
of  Ireland;  born  in  Dublin,  October  22,  1740.  His 
father  was  Philip  Francis,  D.D.,  the  well-known  translator 
of '  Horace,' '  Demosthenes,'  and '  JEschines  ;'  author  of  the 
tragedies  of  '  Eugenia  '  and  '  Constantino,'  and  of  several 
political  pamphlets  during  the  ministries  of  George  II. 
and  George  III.  The  mother's  maiden  name  was  Elizabeth 
Eowe,  whose  father  claimed  descent  from  Sir  Thomas  Eoe, 
the  British  ambassador  to  the  Great  Mogul  in  the  reign  of 
James  I.  Whether  she  was  a  native  of  England  or  of 
the  sister  island  is  unascertained,  and  the  date  and  place 
of  her  marriage  are  also  unknown.  The  union  probably 
took  place  in  1739,  as  in  1740  Dr.  Francis  was  settled  in 
a  Dublin  curacy,  and  was  engaged  on  the  press  in  the 
interest  of  the  Castle.'  The  Irish  paternal  family  was  of 
English  origin,  and  Protestant ;  but  when  first  trans- 

VOL.  I.  B 


2  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.          [1740-58 

planted  to   Ireland  is  doubtful.     Its   armorial  bearings 
were  the  same  as  those  of  a  West  of  England  clan  of  the 
same  surname,  and  whose  genealogical  root  is  assigned  by 
the  Herald's  office  to  have  been  honoured  by  knighthood 
at  the  coronation  of  Eichard  II.  ;  and  the  family  tradition 
derived  its  origin  from  that  part  of  England.     The  grand- 
father of  young  Francis  was  John  Francis,  D.D.,  a  digni- 
tary of  the  Irish  Church  establishment,  first  rector  and 
vicar  of  Innisconnaught ;  with  Other  after  livings  ;  then 
Dean   of  Leighlin,  and  subsequently  translated   to  the 
deanery  of  Lismore.     Early  in  life  the  Dean  had  been 
ejected  from  his  first  living  on  account  of  his  Tory  princi- 
ples,  but   was   reinstated.      The   Dean    died    in   1724, 
leaving   a   widow    and   five   children,  viz.,    three  sons, 
Eichard,  Tench,   and  Philip,  and  two  daughters,  Mary 
and  Ann.     The  bulk  of  his  property,    real   and    per- 
sonal, he  bequeathed    to  the    widow.     The   testament- 
ary  legacies   to   the   children   were   small  :    to  Eichard 
50Y,   Tench  150 J.,  Philip  (Dr.    P.    Francis)    400/.,  and 
his  books,  '  and  I  desire  that  he  may  be  a  clergyman.' 
-To  his  daughters  he  bequeathed  600/.  each.     Eichard 
was  a  pupil  of  the  well-known  Dr.  Sheridan,  of  Dublin, 
and  entered  Trinity  College,  April  20,  1723,  being  de- 
scribed as  aged  eighteen  years ;  he  was  previously  entered 
in  the   Middle  Temple,  London,   June    30,   1719,    and 
called  to  the   bar  of  that  Inn  May  15,  1724.     He  is 
believed  to  have  pursued  his  profession  in  London,  and 
was  the  author  of  a  law  treatise,  '  Maxims  of  Equity.' 
He  probably  died  early  in  life,  as  there  is  no  letter  to  his 
brothers  extant,  or  any  mention  of  his  manhood  inter- 
course with  his  family.     Tench  emigrated  to  America ; 
married  a  Miss  Turbutt ;  and  became  Eecorder  of  Phil- 
adelphia.    Tench's  son,  Turbutt  Francis,  attained  the  rank 
of  Colonel,  apparently  in  the. American  Militia;  and  was 


1740-58]  PARENTAGE  AND^  FAMILY.  3 

killed  in  the  War  of  Independence,  fighting  under 
Washington.  Tench  Francis  left  several  other  children 
whose  descendants  are  now  multiplying  in  the  States. 
One  of  Tench's  daughters  married  James  Tilghman,  an 
eminent  lawyer  of  Pennsylvania  and  secretary  of  the 
Proprietary  Land  Office.  James  Tilghman  was  the  father 
of  the  Hon.  William  Tilghman,  Chief  Justice  of  Pennsyl- 
vania ;  and  of  Eichard  Tilghman,  an  intimate  friend  of 
Sir  Philip. 

Mary  Francis,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Dean,  in  January, 
1726,  married  John  Baggs  Esq.,  of  Dublin,  in  the  Irish  civil 
service.  By  this  marriage  there  were  four  children :  three 
sons,  Stephen,  Philip,  and  Eichard;  and  one  daughter, 
Mary. 

These  details  of  the  lineal  and  collateral  descendants  of 
the  Dean  have  been  recently  collected,  and  are  thus 
particularly  stated,  as  his  grandson  Sir  Philip  maintained 
in  early  life  an  important  and  confidential  correspondence 
with  some  of  his  cousins. 

Philip  Francis,  the  subject  of  this  memoir,  the  only  child 
of  his  parents,  early  lost  his  mother ;  in  what  year  is 
unknown.  As  he  retained  but  a  slight  recollection  of 
her  person,  she  probably  died  in  1744-5,  and  his  father 
appears  to  have  removed  from  Dublin  to  London  not 
long  after  that  period.  Dr.  Francis  had  first  published 
his  translation  of  Horace  in  Dublin,  1743,  but  it  had  a 
limited  circulation.  In  1744,  as  an  accomplished  scholar 
and  political  writer,  he  became  known  to  Lord  Chester- 
field, the  Lord-Lieutenant  of  Ireland  during  the  '  Broad 
Bottom '  administration.  On  that  nobleman's  return  to 
England,  in  1746.  it  is  probable  that  Dr.  Francis  settled 
in  England,  as  he  first  published  the  entire  translation  of 
his  Horace  in  London,  in  1747.  He  held  an  English 
rectory  in  Norfolk  in  July,  1749,  his  Irish  letters  being 

B  2 


4  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.          [1740-58 

addressed  to  'The  Eev.  Mr.  Philip  Francis,  Rector  of 
Skeyton,  in  Norfolk,  to  be  forwarded  by  Mr.  Andrew 
Miller,  Bookseller,  opposite  Catherine  Street  in  the 
Strand,  London.'  He  left  his  young  son  in  care  of  his 
Dublin  relations,  to  receive  the  first  rudiments  of  educa  - 
tion  in  a  free  school  of  which  Mr.  Eoe,  an  eminent 
schoolmaster  (the  successor  of  Dr.  Dunkin),  was  then 
the  head. 

How  long  Philip  continued  under  the  tuition  of  Mr. 
Eoe  is  not  known  ;  but  as  in  1751-2,  Dr.  Francis  himself 
opened  an  academy  for  a  few  boarders  of  good  family, 
his  own  son  must  have  been  for  some  time  under  his 
father,  as  Sir  Philip  claims  to  have  been  a  schoolfellow 
of  Gibbon.  Now  the  historian  of  Eome,  in  his  admirable 
autobiography,  states  that  he  himself  was  placed  under 
Dr.  Francis  when  in  his  fifteenth  year,  and  which  must 
therefore  have  been  some  time  in  1751-2,  and  continued 
with  him  for  fourteen  months.  Gibbon,  of  an  erratic  and 
indolent  turn  of  mind  in  his  youth,  not  given  to  study  as 
in  maturer  years,  reflects  on  Dr.  Francis  for  neglect  of 
his  pupils — perhaps  unjustly  or  in  exaggerated  complaints. 
It  could  not,  however,  be  that  the  Doctor  was  inattentive 
to  his  own  son.  The  stay  of  Philip  with  his  father  was 
probably  partly  on  the  score  of  health,  and  partly  for 
preparation  for  a  public  school.  Until  his  twelfth  year 
Philip  was  of  a  delicate  constitution,  and  requiring,  from 
the  quickness  of  his  intellect  and  habit  of  mental  applica- 
tion, much  care.  The  irreparable  loss  of  a  mother  had 
deprived  him  of  that  early  and  tender  care  for  which 
there  is  no  sufficient  substitute.  He  had  no  step-mother, 
aunt,  or  elder  female  relative,  to  represent  the  tender 
love  and  watchfulness,  or  to  inspire  the  instinctive  affec- 
tions, of  the  child  for  a  maternal  natural  parent. 

Such  are  the  few  details  of  the  first  twelve  years  of  his 


1740-581  AT  ST.  PAUL'S  SCHOOL.  5 

life,  and  of  his  early  instruction  in  private  schools.  It 
is  evident  that  his  physical  constitution  was  not  strong, 
but  that  his  natural  abilities  and  spirit  of  emulation  were 
above  those  of  the  average  of  boys.  His  public  school 
education  now  commenced,  as  a  scholar  of  St.  Paul's 
School. 

The  Mercers'  Company's  records  of  that  noble  institu- 
tion founded  by  DEAN  COLET,  register  Philip's  entry  in 
the  following  minute  of  admission  :— 

Entries  copied  from  the  register  of  St.  Paul's  School  at  Mercer's 
HaU. 


1751 


Nov.  22.  Henry  Sampson  Woodfall. 


1753 


March  17.  Philip  Francis. 


Aye. 


12 


Parent's  names,  fyc. 

Henry,  of  Paternoster  Row, 
Printer,  Mr.  Trigg. 

The  Eev.  Philip,  Southamp- 
ton St.  Covent  Garden. 


1754  fH.  S.  Woodfall.  "I  The  two  names  stand  together  as  the  two 
March  9.     I  Philip  Francis.    J      last  boys  in  the  eighth  or  upper  class. 

(Woodfall  leaves  some  time  during  1754.) 

1755  Francis  appears  as  third  boy  in  the  school. 

1756  „        „  as  head  boy,  and  leaves  school  during  that  year. 


But  the  young  scholar  was  further  fortunate  in  the 
tuition  of  Mr.  George  Thicknesse,  the  head-master  of  the 
school  from  1748  to  1769. 1  Mr.  Thicknesse  was  a  superior 
scholar ;  a  sagacious,  conscientious,  and  laborious  tutor. 
A  true  disciplinarian,  he  was  a  just,  kind,  and  considerate 
master,  beloved  by  his  pupils.  The  Paulines  of  his  mas- 
tership were  reputed  superior  Latinists  and  Grecians,  many 
of  them  in  after  life  becoming  eminent  in  the  learned  pro- 
fessions, and  successful  in  trade  and  commerce. 

In  this  narrative  of  Francis'  obligations  to  the  course 
of  instruction  in  St.  Paul's  School,  it  is  not  irrelevant  to 

1  Brother  of  the  singular  'Lieutenant-Governor  of  Landguard  Fort,' 
Philip  Thicknesse. 


6  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1753 

add,  that  he  acquired  there  a  singularly  fine,  legible,  and 
facile  handwriting,  an  accomplishment  of  a  well-educated 
gentleman,  of  the  highest  value  to  a  youth,  and  which  fact 
will  explain  some  otherwise  mysterious  feats  of  penmanship 
in  his  after  life.  In  these  times  of  comparatively  illegible 
and  vulgar  male  handwriting,  and  when  it  is  too  often 
difficult  even  to  decipher  the  signatures  to  private  letters, 
the  attention  of  schoolmasters  and  young  scholars  may  be 
advisably  recalled  to  the  importance  of  a  restoration  of 
this  branch  of  rudimentary  education.  The  Saxons  of 
England  were  early  eminent  for  penmanship ;  and  the 
later  introduction  of  the  Italian  hand,  numeral  figures, 
and  Venetian  methods  of  book-keeping,  greatly  improved 
the  English  styles.  The  records  of  our  public  offices, 
and  old  mercantile  correspondence  of  the  last  two  cen- 
turies prove  the  early  advance  and  excellence  of  this  in- 
valuable '  liberal  art.'  Peter  Bales,  who  kept  a  writing 
academy  in  the  Old  Bailey,  and  taught  the  children  of 
many  persons  of  distinction  at  their  own  houses,  was  a 
celebrated  penman,  and  the  author  of  a  curious  work  on 
the  art.  In  a  public  trial  of  skill,  with  one  Daniel 
Johnson,  Bales  won  a  prize  of  a  golden  pen  worth  20/. 
Colonel  John  Ayres,  a  poor  boy  originally  from  the 
country,  and  a  footman,  became  subsequently  a  celebrated 
writing-master,  teaching  a  school  in  St.  Paul's  Churchyard, 
and  afterwards  the  author  of  several  publications  on  pen- 
manship and  account-keeping.  He  published  in  1700  his 
'  Paul's  School  Bound-hand,'  and  numerous  copper-plates 
containing  examples  of  the  '  mixt  running  hand  and  mixt 
secretary.'  A  later  eminent  writing-master,  Joseph 
Champion,  also  author  of  several  similar  publications,  was 
educated  at  St.  Paul's  School.  In  1709,  Eayner  published 
a  work  on  calligraphy,  witli  engraved  examples,  entitled 
'  Paul's  Scholars'  Copy  Book,'  dedicated  to  the  Mercers' 


1753]  AT  ST.   PAUL'S  SCHOOL.  7 

Company  and  to  the  Eev.  John  Postlethwait,  then  head- 
master of  St.  Paul's  School.  A  later  edition  contains  also 
plates  of  Greek  and  Hebrew  letters,  stated  to  be  approved 
by  Mr.  Postlethwait.  Samuel  Yaux  was  another  eminent 
London  writing-master,  whose  copies  of  various  hands  a 
few  years  later  were  engraved  in  '  Bickman's  Universal 
Penman.' 

.  It  was  not,  therefore,  to  be  wondered  that  a  century  ago 
the  scholars,  especially  of  St.  Paul's  and  Christ's  Hospital 
Schools  were  noted  for  their  capital  and  uniform  hand- 
writing, or  that  Francis,  with  his  juvenile  love  of  excel- 
lence and  of  excelling,  did  not  neglect  such  a  rudiment  of 
essential  education. 

Such  were  the  unquestionable  advantages  and  fortunate 
circumstances  of  Francis's  elementary  education.  Five 
letters  to  Philip  from  his  father,  during  his  three  years 
and  a  half  continuance  at  St.  Paul's,  comprise  the  only 
memorial  of  this  important  period  of  his  life.  No  letter 
from  him  to  his  father,  or  to  any  member  of  the  family,  is 
extant. 

The  two  first  letters  of  Dr.  Francis  are  without  date  or 
post-marks,  but  are  apparently  written  in  the  earlier  period 
of  Philip's  scholarship.  They  are  interesting  and  credit- 
able to  the  parent. 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

I  do  not  write  to  my  dear  Phil,  merely  to  tell  him  I  have  cheer- 
fully got  to  the  end  of  my  long  Northern  journey ;  nor  even  for  the 
pleasure  (to  me  the  greatest  pleasure)  of  hearing,  in  return,  of  his 
health  and  happiness.  This  letter,  I  hope,  will  open  a  correspon- 
dence between  us,  that  may  for  ever  endear  us  to  each  other.  The 
years  are  coming  on  when  youth  and  its  activity,  when  age  and  its 
indolence,  will  make  us  cold  companions,  and  very  often  divide  us. 
Let  us  not  wholly  depend,  my  dearest  boy,  upon  the  affections  of 
nature.  Let  us  improve  them  into  a  mutual  friendship  and  esteem 
by  a  mutual  trust  and  confidence,  sincerity  and  truth.  From  this 


8  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.          [1753-56 

moment  I  offer  you  my  whole  heart,  even  all  its  weaknesses  and 
frailties,  without  disguise,  without  reserve.. 

Shall  I  expect  the  same  equal  confidence  without  bashfulness  and 
timidity,  without  artifice  and  cunning  ?  My  understanding  may 
not  then  be  unuseful  to  you.  It  was  purchased  by  follies,  errors, 
misfortunes,  not  my  own  only,  but  those  of  others.  May  you  make 
a  better,  wiser,  happier  use  of  it,  than  I  have  done.  But,  if  it  shall 
happen  otherwise ;  if  you  shall  be  carried  away  by  the  passions  and 
their  wanderings,  though  the  world  shall  condemn,  your  father  will 
forgive  you,  will  support,  and  encourage  you  to  happiness.  Give 
him  your  friendship,  and  depend  on  his  :  let  us  love  one  another. 

Not  to  make  this  letter  tedious  even  in  its  affection,  let  me  beg  to 
hear  from  you.  Tell  me  whether  you  are  still  pleased  with  your 
situation  ;  or  can  I  add  anything  to  your  happiness  ?  [Do  you  often 
drink  tea  with  Sally  ?  does  she  take  care  of  you?]  If  Mr.  Dormer 
be  in  town,  go  some  holiday  morning,  and  breakfast  with  him.  Tell 
him  I  live  in  a  palace  with  a  French  cook,  French  wines,  and 
English  hospitality.  Could  I  say  more,  I  would  write  to  him.  If 
there  be  any  letters  for  me  at  home,  send  them  under  a  cover  to 
Francis  Delaval,  Esq.,  at  Seaton  near  Newcastle,  Northumberland. 

Farewell,  my  dear  boy  !  may  neither  distance  nor  time  divide  us  ; 
nor  can  they,  while  affection  and  esteem  unite  us. 

I  am  ever  yours, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ely.     I  send  you  a  trunk. 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

I  thought,  my  dear  Phil.,  that  we  had  agreed  that  our  correspon- 
dence was  to  be  above  all  forms,  all  apologies  for  not  writing  to 
each  other.  And  yet  I  shall  always  be  glad  to  hear  you  are  well, 
in  spite  of  gooseberries,  plums,  and  fevers.  But  I  think  you  have 
got  a  special  nostrum  for  a  fever ;  Jew  Latin  must  cool  as  effec- 
tually as  Doctor  James's  Powders. 

I  rejoice  with  you  at  being  so  long  head  of  your  class,  and  I 
hope  you  will  enjoy  your  superiority  over  your  class-fellows  by 
condescension,  compliance,  and,  if  they  desire  it,  by  assisting  them. 
Genius  and  abilities  are  in  general  very  happy  possessions  ;  yet  an 
injudicious  use  of  them  makes  the  possessor  odious,  and  sometimes 
even  contemptible.  In  learning,  whoever  knows  and  sees  most  is 
most  humble,  from  a  sense  of  the  darkness  and  ignorance  around 
him.  Be  it  your  lot,  my  dear  boy,  to  be  amiable  rather  than 
admired,  envied,  and  hated.  When  you  come  into  the  world,  you 


1753-56]  ROSENHAGEN  AND  FRANCIS.  9 

must  hide  whatever  superiority  you  possess,  if  you  would  turn  it  to 
advantage.  Few  people,  very  few,  will  forgive  an  insult  to  the 
generality  of  mankind  ;  it  really  lowers  them,  and  they  will  take 
exceeding  care  it  shall  not  exalt  you.  .  .  . 

As  to  moving  into  a  higher  Form,  I  could  not  wish  you  would 
press  Mr.  Thicknesse  by  showing  any  impatience  in  your  desire. 
Think,  my  dear  Phil.,  that  it  is  not  being  in  any  particular  place, 
but  the  figure  you  shall  make  there, — that  gives  the  distinction  of 
honour.  In  life,  as  in  plays,  we  cannot  all  play  principal  characters. 
Let  us,  then,  endeavour  to  excel  in  that  which  is  allotted  to  us. 
Farewell !  if  you  have  as  much  pleasure  in  reading,  as  I  have  in 
writing,  you  will  easily  forgive  this  very  long  epistle. 

I  am  ever  yours, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 
« 

From  this  year  till  Philip  left  the  school  in  1756, 
there  is  no  record  of  his  progress,  except  that  he  was 
entered  in  the  Mercers'  Company's  minutes  as  then  the 
head  boy  or  captain.  His  predecessor  in  that  rank  was 
Philip  Eosenhagen,  of  a  Danish  family,  his  contempor- 
ary, though  senior.  The  two  boys  had  been  class-fellows 
and  friends,  though  of  wholly  dissimilar  characters.  Mr. 
Thicknesse  always  mentioned  the  two  pupils  as  the  most 
naturally  clever  boys  and  the  best  scholars  of  his  entire 
term  of  mastership.  But  he  said  Eosenhagen  had  neither 
perseverance  nor  moral  conduct,  whereas  Francis  had 
both,  and  consequently  would  get  the  start  of  the  other 
in  the  race  of  life.  Both,  he  said,  had  strong  passions ; 
but  that  Francis  could  control  them,  while  Eosenhagen 
would  probably  be  the  victim  of  his.  This  character  of 
the  two  youths  was  given  to  Dr.  Francis.  The  just  ob- 
servation and  penetration  of  the  schoolmaster  were  remark- 
ably verified  when  they  grew  up  to  be  men,  as  will 
be  seen  in  the  after  facts  and  contrast  in  the  singular 
careers  of  both.  No  portraits  of  two  boys  could  be 
greater  likenesses  of  their  manhood. 

Eosenhagen,  obtaining  a  St.  Paul's  Exhibition  to  Cam- 


10  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1756 

bridge,  was  entered  in  St.  John's  College.  It  does  not 
appear  by  the  Mercers'  Company's  records  that  young 
Francis  was  offered  or  declined  an  exhibition.  It  may 
be  regretted  that  so  promising  a  youth,  and  so  good  a 
scholar,  should  not  have  had  the  advantage  and  further 
discipline  of  university  culture ;  to  which,  in  Trinity 
College,  Dublin,  Dr.  Francis  himself  was  chiefly  indebted 
for  his  own  advancement  in  life.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
may  be  a  question  whether  a  boy  of  his  peculiar  tempera- 
ment, delicate  health,  and  full  young  for  college,  was  not 
as  well  placed  in  a  public  office  both  for  health  of  body 
and  independence  of  mind.  The  vis  animi  of  some 
youths  of  the  characteristics  of  Philip  Francis,  is  their  own 
best  propeller  and  rudder  ;  while  his  father  could  aid 
him  in  his  further  classical  studies  and  reading,  as  well  as 
insure  him  probable  early  promotion  in  the  civil  service. 
Philip  left  St.  Paul's  School,  receiving  an  honorary  mark  of 
distinction  in  a  gold  medal,  in  token  of  his  proficiency  in 
the  classics  and  for  good  conduct. 

Lady  Francis  relates,  in  her  MS.  reminiscences  of 
her  husband,  some  curious  anecdotes  of.  his  juvenile 
shrewdness  and  observing  mind.  Dr.  Francis  took  his 
boy  one  night  to  Drury  Lane  Theatre.  In  an  interval 
of  the  play  Lord  Chesterfield  entered  their  box  and  re- 
mained some  time  in  conversation  with  the  father.  The 
noble  Lord,  decked  in  a  star  and  blue  ribbon,  talking 
loudly,  and  acting  as  much  as  if  he  had  been  on  the  stage 
himself,  attracted  the  attention  not  only  of  a  party  in  the 
adjoining  box  but  more  distant  listeners.  The  noble 
paragon  of  courtesy  and  fine  words  indulging  in  polite 
conversation  with  the  Doctor,  as  usual,  paused  for  some 
felicitous  word.  In  one  of  his  Lordship's  stops  young 
Philip  promptly  supplied  the  properly- considered  word — 
the  noble  Lord  adopting  it — with  the  preface  of  a  bow 


1756]  HIS  SCHOOLMASTER  MR.   THICKNESSE.  11 

and  the  remark,  '  As  the  young  gentleman  has  most  cor- 
rectly said.'  On  another  occasion,  the  father  accompanied 
by  the  son,  went  with  an  evening  party  by  water  to 
Vauxhall,  and  told  Philip  that  a  distinguished  military 
officer,  Sir  William  Draper,  was  with  them,  and  whose 
manners  he  considered  a  model  of  good  breeding  and 
worthy  of  imitation.  Sir  William  was  in  full  uniform. 
Young  Francis  observed  him  attentively  all  the  way  to 
the  gardens.  The  Doctor,  on  landing,  asked  his  son  if  he 
did  not  think  Sir  William  a  fine  gentleman :  '  No,  I 
don't,'  he  answered ;  '  I  think  he  says  what  he  does  not 
mean.'  '  And  why  ?  '  asked  the  Doctor  :  '  Because,'  was 
the  boy's  answer,  '  he  never  looks  one  full  in  the  face, 
and  that  is  neither  polite  nor  honest,  is  it,  father  ? '  The 
Doctor  rebuked  him  for  presumption,  but  often  after- 
wards narrated  the  two  stories  as  proofs  of  his  son's  early 
discrimination  of  character. 

It  is  only  justice  to  the  memory  of  young  Philip  Francis' 
eminent  schoolmaster — and  the  scholar,  it  will  be  seen  in 
an  after  volume,  most  gratefully,  in  his  manhood,  appre- 
ciated his  obligations  to  this  St.  Paul's  preceptor — to  record 
some  special  anecdotes  to  the  credit  of  the  instructor. 
Mr.  Thicknesse  was  a  member  of  an  old  Staffordshire 
family ;  he  was  educated  at  Winchester,  and  therefore 
from  his  boyhood  trained  in  the  discipline  of  a  public 
school.  After  graduating  at  Cambridge,  and  as  a  younger 
son  having  to  seek  his  own  fortune,  he  was  first  an  usher 
at  Clare's  Academy  in  Soho  Square.  Having  the  reputa- 
tion of  being  one  of  the  best  classical  scholars  in  England, 
he  opened  an  establishment  for  the  tuition  of  youth  in 
Charter  House  Square.  The  chaplainship  of  St.  Paul's 
school  being  vacant,  he  was  appointed  to  that  office  by 
the  Mercers'  Company,  chosen  on  October  3,  1737.  In 
1744  he  was  chosen  sub-master  ;  and  the  high-mastership 


12  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1756 

being  vacant,  in  1748,  by  the  resignation  of  Dr.  Charles, 
he  was  raised  to  the  latter  high  and  responsible  position. 
The  Mercers'  Company  honourably  complied  with  Dean 
Colet's  statute  which  decreed  '  that  if  the  under-master 
be  in  literature  and  in  honest  life  according,  then  the 
high-master's  room  vacant,  let  him  be  chosen  before  an- 
other.' The  school  at  his  election  was  in  a  declining 
state.  Under  Mr.  Thicknesse's  conduct  it  not  only  revived 
but  received  pupils  from  all  parts  of  the  kingdom.  The 
records  of  Oxford  and  Cambridge  in  a  few  years  attested 
the  university  honours  obtained  by  St.  Paul's  scholars. 
In  the  first  year  of  his  mastership  145  scholars  were 
entered,  and  the  whole  number,  to  his  superannuation  in 
1769,  was  1,308.  He  was  beloved  by  all  his  pupils,  and 
retained  their  grateful  and  affectionate  friendship  to  the 
close  of  his  life.  His  discrimination  of  the  moral  and 
intellectual  natures  of  his  different  scholars  was  one  of  his 
highest  qualifications  for  a  teacher  of  youth.  He  was 
accustomed  to  say  that  the  boys  of  a  school  were  not  like 
the  bricks  of  the  school-house  all  moulded  in  one  form ; 
that  his  pupils  differed  widely  in  powers  and  direction  of 
mind,  in  temper  and  temperament,  and  in  the  physical 
conditions  of  health ;  that  some  boys  had  no  talent  for 
the  acquisition  of  the  dead  languages,  and  that  a  master 
must  be  content  with  their  elementary  instruction,  as  the 
birch  and  cane  would  not  alter  nature. 

Young  Philip  Francis,  on  leaving  St.  Paul's  School,  was 
appointed  to  a  junior  clerkship  in  the  Secretary  of  State's 
Office  by  Henry  Fox  (the  first  Lord  Holland),  then  one  of 
the  three  principal  secretaries  of  state  in  the  Duke  of 
Newcastle's  ministry. 

Dr.  Francis  had  been,  when  his  son  obtained  his  first 
clerkship,  almost  domiciled  in  Holland  House,  and  was 
afterwards  appointed  private  Chaplain  to  Lady  Holland. 


1756]  APPOINTED  CLERK  IN  SEC.  OF  STATE'S  OFFICE.      13 

Young  Philip,  in  the  fragments  of  his  own  autobiography 
(twenty  years  afterwards),  states  that  his  father,  Dr. 
Francis,  'almost  lived  at  Holland  House,  and  was  the 
friend  and  favourite  of  the  family.  He  taught  Stephen 
and  Charles  Fox  to  read,  and  Lady  Sarah  Lennox  and 
Lady  Susan  to  declaim.'  Young  Francis  was  an  occa- 
sional visitor  in  Holland  House  at  this  period.  Dr.  Francis 
had  not  only  written  and  published  anonymous  political 
pamphlets  in  the  interest  of  Henry  Fox  and  his  ministe- 
rial colleagues,  but  was  for  some  years  one  of  the  editors 
of  and  contributors  to  the  '  Gazette  '  daily  newspaper,  in 
the  interest  of  the  court  and  government.  He  enjoyed 
Henry  Fox's  full  confidence,  and  deserved  it  as  a  faithful 
partisan ;  but  except  in  the  small  provision  thus  made 
for  Philip,  Fox  cannot  be  called  the  patron  of  the  father, 
Dr.  Francis  not  having  obtained  his  subsequent  Church 
patronage  from  Lord  Holland.1 

Mr.  John  Calcraft,  a  second  well-known  public  man  of 
the  period,  for  many  years  was  Henry  Fox's  most  con- 
fidential person  and  political  ally,  and  must  be  here  men- 
tioned as  one  of  Dr.  Francis'  earliest  London  associates, 
who  twelve  years  afterwards  became  the  confidential 
political  friend  of  the  young  Philip  Francis. 

Mr.  John  Calcraft,  though  placed  early  in  life  in 
the  civil  service,  and  filling  secondary  offices  in  different 

1  The  political  activity  of  Dr.  Francis  as  a  journalist  of  course  accounts 
for  the  savage  attacks  directed  against  him  by  Churchill,  as  '  the  atheist 
chaplain  of  an  atheist  lord,'  if  that  line  in  the  '  Author '  is  meant  for  him — 
'  While  Virtue  to  my  conduct  witness  bears, 
In  throwing  off  the  gown  which  Francis  wears.' 

But  the  composition  of  Churchill  is  so  obscure,  partly  from  want  of 
preciseness  and  partly  from  caution,  that  it  is  not  always  easy  to  identify  his 
allusions.  It  would  seem  that  the  '  reverend  mediator '  who  was  employed 
ineffectually  by  a  '  noble  lord '  to  bribe  Churchill  not  to  publish  some  lines 
entitled  'Ayliffe's  Ghost,'  must  have  been  Dr.  Francis.  See  Note  to  the 
Epistle  to  Hogarth.'— [Editor.] 


14  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1756 

administrations,  could  not  be  considered  as  a  leading 
political  man  of  his  times.  But  his  experience  in  public 
life,  his  early  acquired  wealth,  his  natural  sagacity,  and 
great  '  borough  interest,'  invested  him  with  a  considerable 
share  of  personal  influence  and  power,  especially  as  he 
sate  successively  in  several  parliaments.  Mr.  Calcraft 
knew  the  value  and  power  of  the  London  journals  and 
'  entertained '  their  proprietors  and  best  political  writers. 
His  City  connections  further  procured  him  the  intimacy  of 
the  leading  members  of  the  Court  of  Aldermen  and  Com- 
mon Council  of  London — an  influential  political  body. 
He  was  the  son  of  a  solicitor  of  Grantham,  of  respect- 
able family  and  of  reputable  practice,  and  town-clerk 
of  Grantham,  his  father  being  the  election  agent  of  the 
Rutland  political  interest  in  that  borough.  The  Marquis 
of  Granby  procured  young  John  Calcraft  a  clerkship  in 
the  Pay  Office  or  Commissariat  department.  With  a  fair 
provincial  education  the  young  government  clerk,  by  his 
talents  and  assiduity,  afterwards  raised  himself  to  the  office 
of  Deputy  Paymaster-General.  Forming  the  friendship 
of  Henry  Fox,  Mr.  Calcraft  became  one  of  that  minister's 
most  confidential  political  partisans.  But  he  ultimately 
gave  up  office  to  found  an  army  agency  and  quasi- 
banking  establishment.  He  held  the  agency  of  many 
regiments,  and  of  several  independent  companies.  He 
contracted  for  the  coals  and  clothing  of  the  colonies. 
The  offices  of  Paymaster  of  the  Board  of  Works,  and 
Deputy  Commissary  of  the  Musters,  had  given  him  great 
advantages  in  subsequently  obtaining  business  connections 
with  the  colonies,  and  all  the  principal  offices  of  the 
army.  His  probity  and  punctuality  in  all  his  pecuniary 
engagements  were  universally  acknowledged.  Noblemen 
of  the  highest  rank,  and  of  different  parties,  consulted  him 
on  their  private  and  domestic  affairs  ;  and  he  was  liberal 


1756]  RELATIONS  WITH  CALCRAFT.  15 

in  giving  temporary  accommodation  to  all  his  connections 
in  need  of  pecuniary  aid.  When  at  least  five  noble 
families  of  England,  after  the  long  German  war,  derived 
their  aristocratic  origin,  estates  and  titles,  from  wealth  ac- 
cumulated in  similar  legitimate  and  trading  pursuits,  it  is 
no  marvel  that  Mr.  Calcraft's  later  and  justifiable  ambi- 
tion was  a  peerage.  He  had  earned  and  nearly  gained 
admission  to  the  upper  house,  when  death  arrested  his 
entrance.  Whatever  his  earlier  political  relations  to 
parties,  he  attached  himself  lastly  to  Lord  Chatham  in 
opposition ;  he  reconciled  that  passionate  and  haughty 
nobleman  to  his  brother-in-law,  Lord  Temple  ;  and  his 
last  votes  were,  after  1770,  invariably  given  in  favour  of 
the  liberty  of  the  subject  and  Parliamentary  Keform ;  he 
publicly  bailed  the  victims  of  a  persecuted  press  when 
a  crusade  was  preached  against  political  publishers ; 
and  his  purse  was  always  at  their  service  for  defence. 
In  middle  and  after  life  he  was  in  '  gay '  society,  a 
gallant,  and  frequented  the  greenrooms.  He  was  be- 
hind the  scenes  not  only  of  Downing  Street  but  of  the 
London  theatres,  and  celebrated  in  scandalous  chronicles 
as  for  some  time  one  of  the  '  protectors '  of  the  celebrated 
George  Anne  Bellamy,1  one  of  the  most  attractive  and 

1  This  modern  Lai's  and  courtesan  was  the  daughter  of  an  eminent  farmer, 
one  of  the  Society  of  Friends,  of  the  name  of  Teal,  who  rented  at  Sion, 
near  Maidstone,  extensive  hop-grounds.  The  daughter  was  brought  up  a 
Quakeress,  but  losing  her  father  in  her  infancy,  and  her  mother,  beautiful 
and  a  widow,  not  being  the  most  moral  of  her  sex,  the  daughter  followed 
the  maternal  example,  and  changed  her  prim  habits  and  sectarian  faith 
in  a  Paris  convent  school.  Her  Memoirs  were  originally  written  end 
dressed  from  materials  she  supplied,  by  a  gentleman  of  Covent  Garden 
Theatre,  and  published  in  one  volume  12mo  in  1785.  They  were  afterwards 
extended  to  five  volumes,  and  entitled  '  An  Apology  for  the  Life  of  George 
Anne  Bellamy,  late  of  Covent  Garden  Theatre.  Written  by  Herself.  1782.' 
And  several  editions  rapidly  followed.  Although  abounding  in  fiction,  and 
calumnies  on  private  and  public  men,  and  on  the  highest  members  of  her 
own  profession,  the  work  is,  nevertheless,  a  very  curious  record  of  the 


16  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1758 

popular  actresses  of  her  day.  Her  extravagant  expense 
and  debts,  however,  compelled  Mr.  Calcraft  to  separate 
from  her,  and  the  lady  had  her  revenge  in  the  publication 
of  her  so-called  Memoirs.  For  some  time  this  lady  did 
the  honours  of  Mr.  Calcraft's  table,  his  '  good  dinners  ' 
being  frequented  by  many  leading  political  and  literary 
men.  Dr.  Francis  was  frequently  one  of  the  guests,  as 
was  occasionally  his  son.  The  Doctor,  as  a  divine,  and 
intimate  friend  of  Mr.  Calcraft,  received  his  share  of 
abuse  in  the  Memoirs.  The  actress  had  played  the 
principal  female  characters  in  Dr.  Francis'  unsuccessful 
tragedies,  and  therefore  she  had  materials  for  her  abuse 
and  ridicule  of  the  reputed  author. 

There  is  no  record  to  be  found  in  the  Treasury  records 
of  the  day  or  month  of  this  first  civil  appointment  of 
young  Philip,  or  of  his  first  salary.  The  pay  of  a  junior 
clerk  on  first  entry  is  said  to  have  been  usually  only  40/. 
or  GO/,  per  annum. 

The  three  Secretaryships  of  State  formerly  comprised 
the  '  Northern  Department,'  the  '  Southern  Department,' 
and  the  '  Department  of  the  Colonies.'  The  documents  and 
official  records  of  these  several  extinct  departments  have 
been  so  mixed  and  partially  destroyed  that  it  is  almost 
impossible  to  discover  particular  appointments  of  clerks. 

generally  loose  and  scandalous  manners  of  her  time.  Mr.  Calcraft  had 
died  many  years  before  the  publication.  He  had  repeatedly  paid  her  debts, 
and  after  their  separation  allowed  her  an  annuity.  Among:  his  papers  exists 
a  letter  from  the  actress,  after  the  dissolution  of  their  connection,  admitting 
in  the  most  contrite  terms  her  boundless  extravagance  and  her  gratitude.  It 
is  almost  needless  to  say  that  she  died  in  poverty.  Mr.  Calcraft  was  not 
her  first  '  protector.'  Of  the  same  type  of  biographical  worthlessness  are 
the  Memoirs  of  Miss  Arabella  Bolton  (1770),  against  Mr.  C.  Luttrell,  then 
member  for  Middlesex,  and  the  Memoirs  of  Anne  (Nancy)  Parsons  (1769), 
the  mistress  of  the  young  Duke  of  Grafton.  Yet  it  is  on  such  loose  and 
false  authority  as  Anne  Bellamy's  Memoirs,  that  aspersions  have  been  cited  in 
after  times  against  the  public  character  of  Mr.  Calcraft  and  Dr.  Francis. 


1757]  DR.  FRANCIS'S  TRANSLATIONS.  17 

In  1757-8  Dr.  Francis  dedicated  to  Mr.  Fox  his  trans- 
lation of  Demosthenes  and  JEschines.  It  was  published  by 
subscription.  Among  the  subscribers'  names  appear  those 
of  the  Dukes  of  Bedford,  Grafton,  Newcastle,  and  Eich- 
mond  ;  the  Marquis  of  Granby ;  the  Earls  of  Hillsborough, 
Ilchester  and  Eochfort ;  Lord  George  Sackville,  Lord 
Chesterfield  (fifty  copies) ;  Lords  Bolingbroke,  Barrington, 
Frederick  Cavendish,  Waldegrave  and  Lyttelton ;  Lord 
Mansfield,  the  Eight  Honourable  Henry  Fox,  the  Honour- 
able Charles  Townsend,  Horace  Walpole,  Eobert  Wood, 
Eichard  Eigby,  Mr.  Thicknesse,  master  of  St.  Paul's  School, 
Mr.  Calcraft,  Colonel  Clavering,  Andrew  Mitchell,  &c. 
Many  of  these  public  men  were  friends  or  acquaintances  of 
Dr.  Francis.  The  son  therefore  was  early  initiated  in  the 
characters  of  the  leading  political  and  literary  men  of  the 
day.  Mr.  Calcraft  in  London  kept  open  house,  where 
Dr.  Francis  frequently,  and  his  son  occasionally,  dined  with 
many  of  the  leading  political  and  literary  men  of  the  day. 
Lord  Chesterfield,  Sir  William  Draper,  Foote,  Garrick, 
were  among  the  guests  of  the  great  army  contractor. 
At  this  period,  when  Dr.  Francis  dined  at  home,  it  was 
customary  for  men  of  his  class  to  frequent  coffee-houses 
in  the  evenings  for  tea  or  supper  and  conversation,  and 
often  for  the  amusement  of  card-playing. 

Young  Philip's  initiation  in  the  official  duties  of  a  minor 
clerkship — in  copying,  examining,  endorsing  and  red- 
taping  government  correspondence  and  papers — -was  of 
course  the  usual  routine  ;  with  intervals  for  gossip  with 
fellow-clerks  and  intermittent  reading  of  newspapers. 
But  his  clerical  labours  again  formed  new  habits,  of  value 
to  him  in  after  life.  He  was  an  early  riser,  and  at  this 
time  usually  living  in  his  father's  house,  and  alone  most 
evenings,  he  still  pursued  with  ardour  his  classical  and 
literary  studies ;  having  the  great  advantage  of  his 
VOL.  i.  c 


18  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1757 

father's  direction  and  eminent  attainments.  It  was  natu- 
ral that  a  father  should  idolise  such  a  son  and  indulge"  in 
the  most  sanguine  expectations  of  the  boy's  rise  in  life. 
Philip,  although  a  youth  of  sanguine  temperament,  strong 
passions,  and  indomitable  will,  possessed  great  power  of 
self-control ;  nor  does  he  appear  at  this  critical  period  to 
have  given  his  father  any  cause  of  anxiety  in  his  moral 
or  general  conduct.  Latin  was  his  favourite  classical 
study,  and  he  applied  himself  particularly  to  the  acquisi- 
tion of  the  French  language.  He  appears  early  to  have 
coveted  diplomatic  employment.  His  first  small  savings 
were  laid  out  at  book-stalls,  in  the  purchase  of  second- 
hand books.  In  these  early  purchases  he  commonly 
wrote  his  name  on  the  front  leaf  with  the  date  of  the 
year. 

Philip's  talents,  classical  knowledge,  and  application 
were  known  to  Robert  Wood  (a  friend  of  Dr.  Francis'), 
then  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,1  and  he  did  not  long  await 
preferment  in  the  public  service. 

On  the  overthrow  of  the  pure  Newcastle  ministry,  in 
1757,  the  first  Pitt  again  headed  a  new  administration ; 
ultimately  joined  by  his  Grace.  In  June  of  that  year,  the 
country  being  plunged  in  the  disasters  of  war,  Pitt  was 
again  called  to  the  councils  of  his  Sovereign.  It  cannot 
be  questioned  that  whatever  were  the  defects  of  the 
'great  commoner,'  and  his  extreme  anti-Gallican  mania, 
he  was  the  man  for  the  situation.  His  genius,  his  decision 
of  character,  his  industry,  his  eloquence  in  the  Senate, 
his  rapid  action  in  military  and  naval  successes,  and  his 
firmness  under  reverses,  marked  him  as  the  essential 

1  Afterwards  Under-Secretary  of  State  under  Mr.  Pitt,  1758-1763,  and 
a^ain  in  1768.  The  well-known  authorof  an  Essay  on  the  Genius  of  Homer, 
and  description  of  the  Ruins  of  Palmyra.  The  mysterious  termination  of 
his  life  is  alluded  to  in  the  '  Fragment  of  Autobiography.'  (Appendix.) 


1757]  PITT'S  WAR  ADMINISTRATION.  19 

minister  of  the  crown  and  the  people.  And  although 
naturally  an  aristocrat,  and  overmuch  a  war  minister,  he 
was  nevertheless  a  politician  of  popular  and  constitutional 
principles.  Mr.  Wood  of  the  Treasury  continued  the 
right-hand  man  of  the  new  Premier.  On  the  ill-success 
of  the  expedition  of  Admirals  Hawke,  Kriowles,  Broderick, 
and  General  Mordaunt  to  the  coasts  of  France,  with  the 
object  of  destroying  Brest,  Eochfort,  and  other  ports,  the 
new  ministry  organised  another  naval  and  military  force, 
chiefly  designed  for  the  destruction  of  the  batteries, 
forts,  and  town  of  Cherbourg,  on  which  port  the  French 
Government  had  expended  a  million  sterling.  Lord 
Howe  was  the  Admiral  of  the  fleet,  and  General  Bligh 
commander  of  the  military  forces.  A  secondary  object 
of  this  expedition  was,  to  effect  a  diversion  in  favour  of 
the  great  Frederick  of  Prussia  by  diverting  and  oc- 
cupying part  of  the  military  resources  of  France  in  defence 
of  its  ports  and  sea  coast.  Francis'  sure  friend  and  patron, 
Mr.  Wood,  procured  for  him  the  office  of  secretary  to 
General  Bligh,  to  which  his  intelligence  and  general  fit- 
ness only  could  have  entitled  him  at  so  very  early  an 
age  as  eighteen.  His  knowledge  of  the  French  language, 
and  his  remarkable  aptitude  of  composition,  made  full 
amends  also  for  his  want  of  years.  Seldom  had  a  youth 
been  advanced  to  so  singular  and  responsible  a  public 
position.  Though  the  results  of  the  expedition,  on  the 
whole,  disappointed  the  ministry  and  the  country,  the  young 
secretary  derived  great  advantages  from  the  experience 
of  life,  and  of  military  affairs. 

Secret  instructions  were  drawn  up  by  Pitt,  in  the  King's 
name,  of  the  date  of  the  18th  July  (1758),  and  communi- 
cated as  directions  to  General  Bligh.  The  command  of 
the  land  forces  had  been  refused  by  other  general  officers, 
and  General  Bligh  reluctantly  accepted  it.  So  many 

c  2 


20  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1758 

commanders  had  been  *  victimised '  for  ill-success  in  our 
many  ill-fated  expeditions  abroad,  that  such  commands 
were  seldom  coveted,  but  commonly  absolutely  avoided. 

The  troops  destined  for  the  Cherbourg  expedition,  and 
the  convoy  of  ships  of  war  with  the  transport  vessels,  ren- 
dezvoused at  the  Isle  of  Wight.  The  minister's  injunctions 
expressly  directed  an  attack  on  the  batteries,  forts,  and 
town.  If  a  complete  demolition  of  them  was  effected,  or 
failed,  General  Bligh  was  ordered  to  '  proceed  to  carry  a 
warm  alarm  along  the  coast  of  France  and  to  make  des- 
cents on  any  part  or  parts  thereof;  and  to  attack  any 
place  that  may  be  found  practicable,  from  the  easternmost 
point  of  Normandy,  as  far  westward  as  Morlaix,  inclusive.' 
A  further  express  direction  ordered  General  Bligh  to 
preserve  communication  with  the  fleet.  Lastly,  his  in- 
structions directed  the  General,  in  case  events  or  necessity 
required  the  fleet  and  forces  to  leave  the  coasts  of  France 
before  order  to  that  effect  from  England,  to  return  home, 
and  to  land  the  troops  '  at  such  of  our  ports  as  shall  be 
most  convenient.' 

Philip  Francis  will  best  narrate  his  own  civilian's  story, 
so  far  as  given  by  the  few  letters  to  his  father  preserved. 
His  first  announcing  his  arrival  at  Portsmouth  : — 

Dear  Sir, — I  arrived  here  last  night  at  eight  o'clock,  after  a  very 
rainy  journey  ;  it  thundered  violently  all  the  afternoon.  I  imme- 
diately waited  on  the  General,  who  received  me  very  well,  and  I 
shall  breakfast  with  him  this  morning.  He  was  sorry  he  could 
not  lodge  me  in  the  same  house  with  him ;  but  every  bed  was 
occupied. 

The  troops  are  embarking  with  all  speed.  I  know  nothing  of 
this  place,  having  not  seen  it  by  daylight ;  but  I  am  going  to  try 
my  fortune  :  and  shall  write  to  you  every  day. 

I  am  yours  sincerely, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

"William  says  he  does  not  know  whether  he  lay  on  a  bed  or  not 
last  night.  Direct  to  me  at  the  Vine  at  Portsmouth. 


1758]      ACCOMPANIES  GEN.  BLIGH  TO  CHERBOURG.  21 

A  second  letter  of  the  Doctor's,  dated  27th,  is  as 
follows,  endorsed  by  the  son  as  received  on  the  29th : — 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip. 

My  dear  Phil., — Let  me  thank  you  for  your  letters,  and  hope  you 
have  received  mine,  with  your  Table  of  Fees.  I  believe  you  must 
think  no  more  of  being  Judge  (a  second  Daniel  most  certainly). 
Though  I  detest  quotations — '  Quid  valeant  humeri,'  is  no  unwise 
motto  ;  and  I  am  a  little  apprehensive  you  neither  know  your  own 
weakness  (for  weakness,  if  you  please,  read  strength)  nor  the 
weight  you  are  attempting  to  raise.  'Tis  foolish  to  be  found  out, 
and  should  be  punished,  like  a  Lacedemonian  theft.  To  talk  with- 
out simile — never  put  forth  your  whole  abilities.  However,  at 
present  your  General  must  apply  for  your  commission  to  the  Judge- 
Advocate  here,  who  will  send  all  proper  instructions.  The  rest  is 
wishes  for  success. 

You  know  me  all  affection  your 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 

We  talk  here  of  the  King  of  P.'s  Generalship  ; — that  he  has  got 
between  Count  Daun  and  his  great  magazine. — May  I  tell  you  that 
you  begin  your  letters  too  near  the  top  ;  that  to  everybody  but  me 
you  should  write  words  at  length — &,  recd,  &c.,  you,  your,  he,  him, 
&c.;  and  should  begin  with  capitals.1  You  will  forgive  me.  Pray 
remember  your  compliments  to  Mr.  Calcraffc.  He  surely  deserves 
your  attention.  Farewell ! 
London,  27th  July,  1758. 

Intervening  its  receipt,  Philip  informed  the  Doctor 
of  his  arrival  at  St.  Helen's. 

The  first  result  of  this  expedition  was  successful ; 
Cherbourg  being  captured  and  temporarily  held,  its  forti- 
fications much  damaged,  and  all  the  shipping  in  the  roads 
and  port  destroyed.  The  forts  mounted  150  pieces  of 
cannon.  It  was  the  first  enterprise  on  the  coast  of  France 
(in  later  times)  which  had  really  succeeded.  But  the 
weather  soon  became  adverse,  and  fearing  the  fleet  might 
be  obliged  to  put  to  sea,  General  Bligh,  following  his 

1  To  this  instruction  Francis  religiously  adhered  in  almost  all  the  MSS. 
which  he  has  left  behind  him.  Junius  followed  the  same  practice.  It  was, 
however,  much  more  usual  then  than  now. 


22  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1758 

instructions,  recrossed  the  channel,  abandoning  further 
attempts  against  other  ports.  Unfortunately  a  letter  of 
Philip  Francis  to  his  father  of  the  16th  August,  detailing 
the  fall  of  Cherbourg,  is  not  among  the  family  papers. 
But  the  following  letter  mentions  some  particulars  : — 

Essex,  Portland  Road,  August  19,  1758. 

Dear  Sir, — I  wrote  to  you  on  the  16th  by  the  '  Success.'  She  did 
not  sail  till  yesterday  morning.  "We  are  now  within  a  quarter  of  a 
mile  of  English  land.  What  would  I  give  to  go  ashore,  to  taste 
fresh  butter  !  We  shall  anchor  here  in  expectation  of  a  fair  wind  ; 
and  then  for  France  again.  It  is  generally  agreed  we  have  done 
the  French  above  1,200,OOOZ.  -worth,  of  damage.  Fifty-three  mines 
were  sprung  at  Cherbourg  and  the  forts  near  it,  with  our  own 
powder,  103  iron  cannon  and  three  iron  mortars  destroyed ;  twenty- 
two  brass  cannon  and  two  brass  mortars  shipped  ;  about  thirty 
vessels  burnt  in  the  harbour  ;  contributions  exacted  to  near  3,OOOZ. ; 
a  large  sum  considering  the  poverty  of  the  place,  and  the  additional 
losses  it  sustained  from  pillaging,  &c. 

I  send  you  a  copy  of  two  inscriptions  found  on  the  Basin.  Should 
we  succeed  in  our  next  attempt,  the  General's  recommendation  may 
be  of  use  to  me  ;  and  at  present  I  think  I  am  well  in  his  opinion. 
At  any  rate  this  expedition  will  be  of  the  greatest  advantage  to  me. 

We  hear  by  the  newspapers  and  private  letters,  that  all  our  suc- 
cess is  attributed  to  the  Commodore  ;  I  assure  you  he  had  no  other 
hand  in  it,  than  in  covering  the  landing  and  re-embarkation  ;  which 
he  performed  with  the  greatest  judgment.  Pray  undeceive  people. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  yours  truly, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

My  compliments  attend  Mr.  Calcraft.  I  really  have  not  been 
able  to  keep  any  journal  since  we  landed.  What  happened  before 
was  not  worth  sending.  The  '  Maidstone  '  yesterday  took  a  French 
privateer,  near  Alderney.  I  shall  share  the  prize-money.  Our  loss 
on  shore  does  not  amount  to  twenty  men.1 

The  results  of  the  further  razzias  of  this  expedition  were 
not  advantageous  or  in  the  end  very  creditable  to  the 

1  It  would  seem,  from  Mr.  Franci3  sharing  the  prize-money,  that  his 
appointment  must  have  been  that  of  Military  Secretary  to  the  General.  If 
so,  is  not  this  unusual  ?  The  appointment  was  obtained  through  Mr. 
Calcraft,  as  appears  from  a  former  letter  omitted,  in  which  Dr.  Francis 
reminds  his  son  that  he  owes  it  to  him,  as  well  as  to  Mr.  Wood. 


1758]  EXPEDITION  TO   CHERBOURG.  23 

British  arms.  St.  Malo  was  unapproachable,  and  the 
coasts  of  France  in  general  better  guarded  than  had  been 
anticipated.  Indeed  the  General  complained  sorely  of  want 
of  the  most  ordinary  information  on  the  real  state  of  the 
ports  and  their  defences.  Nor  was  Lord  Howe  much 
better  cognisant  of  the  pilotages  and  anchorages  of  the 
fleet.  After  the  fall  and  destruction  of  Cherbourg  the 
French  troops  could  be  spared  for  the  protection  of  Nor- 
mandy. They  could  easily  move  from  Granville  to  other 
parts  of  the  coast,  that  town  being  held  by  a  large  French 
force.  The  British  troops  landed  first  at  St.  Lunaire,  but 
destroyed  only  twenty  small  vessels  arid  a  few  inconsiderable 
forts  on  that  part  of  the  coast.  In  reconnaissances  of  other 
smaller  ports,  they  found  all  the  cannon  and  munitions  of 
war  wisely  removed.  Nevertheless,  again  landing  in  the 
district  of  St.  Gas  the  first  week  in  September,  the  troops 
immediately  found  themselves  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
superior  French  forces ;  Lord  Howe  reporting  immediately 
afterwards  the  weather  to  be  so  unsettled  and  the  sea  so 
rough,  that  he  deemed  it  dangerous  for  the  fleet  to  remain 
longer  on  that  part  of  the  coast.  The  Admiral  accordingly 
took  the  ships  to  St.  Cas  bay  for  safety,  the  troops  march- 
ing for  the  same  place.  In  the  re-embarkation,  about 
700  British  troops  were  killed  or  wounded ;  and  nearly 
500  made  prisoners.  This  disaster  occurred  on  the  llth 
September.  The  only  set-off  was,  the  usual  comfort : 
4  the  number  of  killed  and  wounded  of  the  enemy,  accord- 
ing to  their  most  moderate  accounts,  was  more  than  double 


ours.'1 


General  Bligh  unjustly  suffered  by  this  subsequent  ill- 

1  See  the  '  London  Gazette,'  August  13  and  September  18,  1758.  Also 
'A  Letter  from  the  Hon.  L— t-G— 1  B— gh  to  the  Rt.  Hon.  W.  P— t,' 
&c.,  1758.  Also,  An  Examination  of  a  Letter/  &c.  1758.  And  the 
newspaper  controversy,  April  1758-9. 


24  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRAXCIS.  [1759 

success.  He  escaped  a  court-martial,  but  was  coldly 
received  at  Court.  •  Indeed  he  was  obliged  to  disclaim  all 
participation  in  the  publication  of  Mr.  Pitt's  instructions 
and  of  all  publications  in  explanation  of  his  military 
conduct. 

The  little  summary  of  Francis'  relations  to  this  memor- 
able expedition,  is  that  he  perused  the  meagre  despatches 
of  General  Bligh  ;  that  he  was  verbally  reprimanded  for 
being  in  the  trenches  before  Cherbourg  as  no  part  of  his 
civilian  duty,  and  that  he  re-embarked  finally  with  the 
retreating  troops,  preserving  a  whole  skin  and  his  bones 
unbroken.  In  after  life,  Francis  (according  to  his  wife) 
always  mentioned  the  Bligh  exploit  in  Cherbourg  as 
'  much  like  many  other  of  our  expeditions,  ill-combined 
and  worse  executed,  our  movements  often  the  counterpart 
of  an  unskilful  game  of  chess  ; '  and  the  '  enemy  commit- 
ting equal  mistakes  or  giving  us  credit  for  deep-laid 
designs,  and  not  taking  advantage  of  our  own  blunders ! ' 

His  service,  however,  netted  him  much  experience. 
It  was  a  valuable  gain  of  knowledge,  arid  he  found  it  in 
after  life  a  useful  preparation  for  the  War  Office,  and  the 
rule  of  India. 

Mr.  Wood  had  kindly  left  his  Whitehall  clerkship 
vacant,  and  he  resumed  his  ordinary  duties  on  his  return 
to  London.  For  eighteen  months  he  plodded  on  in  this 
mere  clerical  work,  but  he  had  always  faith  in  himself,  and 
applied  most  of  his  leisure  and  time  in  the  study  of  the 
classics,  and  particularly  in  reading  history,  and  the  consti- 
tutional system  of  his  own  country.  It  does  not  appear 
that  he  kept  any  journal  at  this  time.  None  is  extant  or 
mentioned  by  him,  and  no  letters  from  this  period  to  the 
close  of  1759  exist. 


1760]  GOES  TO  LISBON  WITH  LORD  KINNOUL'S  MISSION.    25 


CHAPTER  II. 

POETUGUESE    MISSION. — LOVE   AND    MARRIAGE. 

[>Ei.  20-23.] 

Francis  goes  to  Portugal  as  Secretary  to  Lord  Kinnoul,  1760,  and 
returns — His  Studies  and  Literary  Compositions — Engagement  and 
Marriage  with  Miss  Macrabie,  1761 — Under  Lord  Egremont  as 
Secretary  for  the  Northern  Department,  1762 — First  Clerk  in  the 
War  Office,  1762 — Resignation  of  Lord  Bute,  and  consequent  Politi- 
cal Changes,  1763. 

THE  next  eventful  era  in  Francis'  life,  and  the  turning 
point  of  his  official  education,  knowledge  of  the  world, 
and  proficiency  in  modern  languages,  was  his  appoint- 
ment, in  January  1760,  as  secretary  of  Lord  Kinnoul's 
special  embassy  to  the  court  of  Portugal.  Although  his 
father  at  this  time  was  attached  to  the  personal  interest 
and  household  of  Lord  Holland,  that  statesman  had  no 
status  in  the  ministry,  and  was  only  Paymaster  of  the 
Forces.  Philip  Francis  was,  at  this  time,  personally  un- 
known to  Mr.  Pitt,  the  then  Secretary  of  State  for  the 
Northern  Department  and  real  head  of  the  ministry  ;  nor 
had  he  any  personal  relations  whatever  with  the  Grenville 
section  in  office.  Mr.  Wood's  estimate  of  his  young  friend 
and  his  recommendation  of  him  to  Mr.  Pitt,  solely  ob- 
tained the  preferment.  Francis  was  indeed  unknown  to 
the  entire  cabinet,  except  Lord  Holland. 

Portugal  at  this  period  had  long  fallen  in  the  scale  of 
European  nations.  Constitutional  government  had  been 
suspended  since  the  year  1608.  No  civilised  nation  could 


26  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

well  have  become,  throughout  all  classes  to  the  monarch, 
more  debased.  An  oligarchy  of  nobles  arbitrarily  and 
venally  governed  the  country,  filling  every  office  of  the 
state.  A  host  of  clergy,  insolent  and  ambitious,  cqntri- 
buted  to  pauperise  and  misteach  the  laity.  The  Jesuits, 
rich  and  intriguing,  were  no  longer,  as  in  their  earlier 
order,  good  teachers  of  learning,  and  examples  of  Chris- 
tian virtues,  but  were  degenerated  usurpers  of  political 
power.  Trade  and  commerce  were  decayed,  and  the 
colonial  possessions  of  the  state  were  grossly  mismanaged. 
The  reign  of  John  V.,  a  hypocritical  pietist  and  a  profli- 
gate, completed  the  ruin  of  the  public  finances. 

A  weak  son  of  the  deceased  sovereign,  wholly  in- 
experienced in  public  affairs,  succeeded  to  the  Portu- 
guese throne  in  1750.  Happily  for  the  nation,  Joseph 
Sebastian  de  Carvalho  e  Mello,  more  commonly  known  as 
the  Marquis  of  Pombal,  early  obtained  the  confidence  of 
the  new  king,  and  for  a  quarter  of  a  century  was  the 
virtual  prime  minister  of  the  new  monarch.  Carvalho 
was  called  the  Sully  of  Portugal.  This  paramount  minis- 
ter was  surrounded  by  the  same  accumulated  and  almost 
insuperable  difficulties  which  beset  the  government  and 
ministries  of  Henry  IV.  of  France.  Large  and  charitable 
allowances  ought  ever  to  be  made  for  statesmen  so 
placed. 

On  November  1,  1755,  almost  on  the  commencement 
of  Carvalho's  administration,  the  great  earthquake  of 
Lisbon  nearly  destroyed  that  splendid  capital.  At  the 
risk  of  his  life,  the  active,  strong-minded  minister  hurried 
to  the  city  of  ruins,  and  throughout  the  most  trying 
scenes  of  desolation  was  a  ministering  angel  in  help  and 
succour  of  the  unfortunate  citizens.  The  Jesuit  opponents 
of  Carvalho  and  the  bitter  enemies  of  his  liberal  po- 


1760]  PORTUGAL  IN  17GO.  27 

licy,  impressed  the  people  with  the  idea  that  the  earth- 
quake '  was  a  divine  infliction  for  the  impiety  of  the 
minister  and  his  supporters  ; '  and  they  prophesied  that 
a  similar  dreadful  convulsion  would  be  repeated  on  the 
same  day  of  the  following  year. 

Under  this  able  and  courageous  minister,  the  city  of 
Lisbon  was,  after  several  years,  rebuilt  and  greatly  beau- 
tified ;  the  country  comparatively  prospered  and  was 
certainly  better  governed  than  for  a  century  before. 

In  Portugal,  so  circumstanced,  young  Francis  was  now 
destined  to  pass  some  months  of  his  further  early  career 
in  life.  The  above  brief  particulars  of  the  condition  of 
the  Portuguese  nation  at  the  period  of  the  embassy  of 
Lord  Kinnoul,  will  explain  the  influences  of  this  secre- 
taryship on  the  mind  of  such  a  youth  as  Francis,  and 
will  also  account  for  the  impressions  he  received  on  the 
evils  of  despotism,  and  an  abused  Catholic  system  of 
religion. 

The  embassy  was  designed  by  Pitt,  ostensibly,  as  a 
compliment  of  the  British  king  to  the  sovereign  and 
royal  family  of  Portugal  on  the  approaching  marriage  of 
Don  Joseph.  But  our  minister  had  also  other  purposes 
in  view.  Portugal  had  maintained  a  strict  neutrality  in 
the  great  continental  war  then  raging.  We  were  from 
mutual  interests  ancient  allies.  Indeed  England  was 
charged  with  holding  Portugal  in  leading-strings,  and  of 
destroying  the  independence  of  the  country.  Our  resident 
ambassador  at  Lisbon,  Mr.  Hay,  had  reported  intrigues 
of  the  French  envoy  there,  supported  also  by  Eome,  in 
the  endeavour  to  tempt  Portugal  to  join  with  France 
in  the  war.  Pitt,  of  course,  thought  by  this  projected 
embassy  to  counterbalance  Gallican  designs.  Moreover, 
the  court  of  Lisbon  had  taken  offence  at  Admiral  Bos- 


28  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

cawen's  attack  and  capture  of  the  French  fleet  of  Admiral 
de  la  Clue,  almost  under  the  guns  of  the  Portuguese 
fortress.  A  strong  remonstrance  had  been  received  from 
Carvalho  on  this  alleged  violation  of  the  law  of  nations, 
and  the  rights  of  neutral  powers. 

Two  large  unpublished  folio  volumes  of  MSS.  in  our 
State  Papers,  contain  full  and  particular  records  of  the 
Kinnoul  embassy  ;  comprising  copies  of  all  Pitt's  letters 
and  the  entire  of  the  Earl's  diplomatic  communications  to 
Pitt.  The  latter  are  mostly  in  the  hand-writing  of  Francis, 
who  himself  preserved  copies  of  all  the  more  impor- 
tant documents  connected  with  the  mission.  Extracts  of 
these  details,  and  of  the  secondary  objects  of  the  mission, 
are  irrelevant  to  a  biography  of  Francis.  His  personal 
history  as  secretary,  and  his  own  private  account  of  this 
embassy,  are  the  more  primary  and  interesting  part  of 
his  *  Life  and  Correspondence.'  These  '  State  Papers,' 
and  Lord  KinnouTs  letters  to  Pitt,  show  that  the  British 
Ambassador,  like  his  secretary,  was  almost  a  tyro  in 
diplomacy.  Lord  Kinnoul's  first  letter  of  eleven  folio 
pages  to  Pitt,  on  his  arrival  at  Lisbon  (in  Philip  Francis' 
handwriting),  naively  confesses  that  he  was  '  entirely 
unacquainted  with  foreign  courts.'  Francis  was,  it  may 
be  inferred,  from  his  aptness  and  general  knowledge  of 
languages,  history,  and  European  politics,  not  only  the 
amanuensis,  but  the  '  right  hand,'  of  the  Scotch  ambassa- 
dor. It  is,  however,  singular  that  throughout  the  entire 
two  volumes  of  the  public  records,  no  mention  even  of 
the  secretary's  name  occurs,  although  almost  all  Lord 
Kinnoul's  despatches  are  written  not  only  in  the  hand,  but 
also  in  the  palpable  style,  of  Francis,  as  appears  by  com- 
parison with  his  known  performances.  Lord  Kinnoul's 
private  letters  are  mediocre  as  compositions.  But  for 
one  after  incidental  mention  of  the  secretaryship  having 


1760]    CORRESPONDENCE  FROM  AND   TO  PORTUGAL.         29 

been  held  by  Francis,  the  fact  might  never  have  been 
historically  known.1 

Fortunately  an  almost  entire  series  of  letters  between 
Dr.  Francis  and  his  son,  during  this  period,  has  been 
preserved,  affording  an  interesting  narrative  of  the  em- 
bassy. The  following  is  Philip's  first  note  to  his  father, 
before  embarkation : — 

Portsmouth,  Feb.  14,  1760. 

My  dear  Sir, — There  does  not  appear  the  least  likelihood  of  our 
ever  leaving  this  miserable  place.  The  winds  are  not  satisfied  with 
detaining  us  here,  they  blow  tempests  against  us.  However,  my 
Lord  keeps  me  so  constantly  employed  that  the  time  is  far  from 
hanging  on  hand.  I  ought  to  tell  you  that  I  have  every  reason  to 
think  I  shall  live  very  happily  with  him.  It  must  give  you  plea- 
sure to  know  I  am  so  well  situated.  My  servant  John,  too,  pleases 
me  extremely.  Lord  Strathmore  and  Mr.  Pitt 2  are  most  amiable 
young  men,  so  that  I  cannot  travel  in  better  company.  We  have 
nothing  new  here,  nor,  indeed,  could  expect  anything  from  such  a 
kennell. 

My  best  respects  to  Mr.  Calcraffc. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  always  yours, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 

Portsmouth,  February  21,  1760. 

Dear  Sir, — We  went  on  board  the  '  Windsor,'  Captain  Cleveland, 
last  Sunday,  as  I  informed  you.  After  going  through  the  utmost 
misery  from  calms  and  contrary  winds,  we  were  obliged  to  land 
again  on  Tuesday  night.  I  never  felt  more  real  pleasure  than  in 
once  more  visiting  this  wretched  place.  The  wind  is  fair  again  this 
morning  ;  but  I  cannot  think  of  the  ship  '  Windsor  '  without  horror 
and  detestation.  Young  Mr.  Pitt  is  troubled  with  fits.  He  had  one 
last  night  so  terrible  that  it  almost  communicated  itself  to  me.  This 
morning  he  is  so  weak  that  he  cannot  be  moved. 

I  am  still  strong  in  bank.     My  only  expense  has  been  in  clothes 


1  '  The  Monthly  Mirror,'  May  1810.    The  fact  was  supplied  by  Francis  to 
the  Editor,  Mr.  Dubois;  and,  further,  that  Mr.  Wood  recommended  him 
to  Pitt. 

2  Thomas  Pitt,  nephew  of  Lord  Chatham,  afterwards  Lord  Camelford. 
He  and  Lord  Strathmore  composed  a  MS.  account  of  their  adventures  in 
Portugal,  which  is  in  the  British  Museum. 


30  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

and  washing ;  I  was  obliged  to  make  two  shirts  serve.     But  I  cannot 
thank  you  enough  for  this  attention  to  me. 

The  people  here  are  greatly  interested  in  Lord  Charles  Hay's 
trial. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  alway  yours, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

His  father's  following  letter,  acknowledging  the  receipt 
of  three  letters,  is  undated,  but  endorsed  by  the  son  as 
written  on  the  15th,  and  received  on  the  following  day. 

My  dear  Phil., — I  am  to  acknowledge  and  thank  you  for  three 
lettars.  I  would  have  answered  that  of  the  llth,  but  our  landfolks 
imagined  you  had  probably  set  sail.  I  will  not  attempt,  perhaps  I 
am  unable,  to  tell  you  my  anxiety  for  you.  Such  a  tempest  on 
Monday  !  somewhat  more  than  what  seamen  call  a  gale. 

From  Lord  Kinnoul's  universal  character  I  never  doubted  your 
happiness  in  his  service  ;  neither  do  I  doubt  that  your  attention  to 
please  and  your  assiduity  will  continue  to  deserve  it.  You  may 
believe  I  truely  rejoice  with  you  in  your  present  situation  ;  yet  do 
not  think  me  whimsical  if  I  confess  that  I  have  greater  pleasure  in 
hearing  you  are  pleased  with  your  servant.  It  looks  as  if  he  were 
pleased  with  you  ;  and  believe  me,  Phil.,  to  make  our  inferiors 
happy  is  a  better  proof  of  merit  than  to  be  made  so  by  our  superiors. 
I  send  you  some  particulars  of  Lord  Charles  Hay's  trial  on 
Wednesday,  as  I  could  bring  them  off  upon  memory :  an  accident 
has  happened  to  the  paper  upon  which  I  had  written  the  account 
the  day  before,  and  I  am  so  heartily  tired  that  I  cannot  write  it  over 
again. 

For  public  news,  the  Prince  of  Hesse  has  given  you  all  assurances 
of  his  firmness  to  your  interests  ;  and  as  the  best  of  all  private  news 
— all  our  friends  are  well. 

I  am  ever  yours, 

P.  FKANCIS. 

For  cloaths,  read  clothes  ;  for  kennell,  read  kennel ;  for  behaves, 
read  behaves  himself;  and  then  read  Johnson.  Farewell ! 

Dr.  Francis'  correction  of  Philip's  orthography  will  be 
noticed  as  an  early  instruction  in  correct  spelling. 

Two  other  short  notes  close  the  correspondence  of  the 
son  prior  to  his  sailing. 


1700]    CORRESPONDENCE  FROM  AND  TO  PORTUGAL.         31 

A  letter  from  the  young  secretary,  announcing  his 
arrival,  and  first  impressions  of  Lisbon,  is,  unfortunately, 
not  preserved.  This  hiatus,  however,  is  supplied  by  two 
of  his  fellow-voyagers. 

Three  letters  from  his  father  followed  him  to  Lisbon. 
They  are  interesting  and  curious,  especially  in  reference 
to  the  court-martial  on  Lord  George  Sackville,  whose 
trial  Dr.  Francis  was  then  reporting  for  the  '  Gazette.' 

This  letter  will,  I  hope,  find  my  dear  Phil,  safely  arrived  in  the 
land  of  spring  and  sunshine,  enjoying  the  distresses  of  his  voyage 
by  describing  them  to  Mr.  Allen.  I  should  now  hail  your  half- 
excellency  upon  your  talents  in  negotiation,  and  particularly  on  the 
slow  solemnity  and  Spanish  gravity  of  your  chariot  and  mules. 
No ;  though  I  would  not  discourage  that  ambition,  to  which  Mr. 
Fox  and  Mr.  Wood  have  given  you  such  hopeful  encouragement ; 
though  I  could  wish  you  should  ever  maintain  a  modest  conscious- 
ness of  your  own  merits,  yet — I  know  not  how — methinks  I  would 
much  rather  see  you  happy  than  great.  I  would  endeavour  to  per- 
suade you,  that  our  true  happiness  consists  in  making  others  happy ; 
and  that  the  selfish  man  is,  of  all  human  wretchedness,  most  miser- 
able. To  be  beloved,  is  undoubtedly  to  be  esteemed,  and  indeed  the 
noblest  proof  we  can  give  of  our  abilities. 

Giving  advice  you  will  say,  is  the  passion  of  us  old  folks,  and  to 
relieve  you,  Mr.  Shuckburg  sends  for  my  letter.  You  will  see  by 
the  packet  I  send  you,  that  I  mean  to  deserve  your  correspondence. 
Let  me  thank  you  for  all  your  letters.  My  best  love  to  Mr.  Allen. 

Believe  me  ever  yours, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

London,  February  4,  1760. 

You  will  believe,  my  dear  Phil.,  by  the  packets  I  send  you,  that 
I  have  not  been  very  badly  employed,  since  you  left  me.  Never 
were  you  so  fagged  in  one  of  your  weeks  of  victory  last  year.  I 
could  at  this  moment  (for  I  am  this  moment  returned  from  Lord 
George  Sackville's  trial)  dictate  more  than  Caesar's  secretaries,  or 
even  Calcraft's  clerks.  This  billet  must  therefore  be  a  short  one. 
My  love  to  Mr.  Allen  ;  l  tell  him  I  yesterday  received  a  cask  of 
wine  as  large,  no,  not  quite  so  large,  as  the  tun  at  Heydelberg.  I 


1  The  cliaplain  at  Lisbon ;  a  connection  of  Dr.  Francis. 


32  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

don't  at  present  mean  to  thank  him  ;  I  shall  drink  his  health  from 
the  first  piercing  to  the  last  bottle. 

Ever  yours, 
London,  March,  1760.  P.  F. 

I  gather  from  this  (though  not  otherwise  sure  of  the 
fact)  that  Mr.  Francis  had  been  employed  as  a  clerk  in 
the  War  Office  after  returning  from  his  cruise  with 
General  Bligh.  The  phrase  '  weeks  of  victory '  must 
allude  to  some  particularly  busy  period  at  the  War  Office, 
occasioned  by  favourable  tidings  of  the  war  in  Germany. 

Welcome,  my  dear  Phil.,  to  any  land  from  the  horrors  of  the  sea ! 
even  to  that  land  where  nature's  sweets  are  miserably  overpowered 
by  human  stinks.  You  will  return,  I  presume,  a  perfect  connoisseur 
in  smells,  from  the  pie  de  messager  to  the  polite  liaut  gout  of  garlick 
and  assafcetida.  From  your  account  it  is ,  not  gentilitious  to  the 
Jews  only — according  to  Doctor  Brown's  expression — to  stink  and 
be  nasty. 

What  an  amiable  character  is  Mr.  Allen's,  and  how  happy ! 
'  Every  body  loves  him.'  Let  my  love  too  be  added  to  that  of  all 
his  acquaintance ;  and  be  most  assured,  my  dear  Phil.,  that  even 
with  regard  to  self-happiness,  this  of  all  other  characters  is  most 
devoutly  to  be  wished  for.  Esteem  is  paid,  if  really  paid,  to  our 
abilities  most  grudgingly.  It  confesses  a  superiority,  which  man- 
kind are  very  unwilling  to  acknowledge  ;  it  seems  to  give  up  our 
proper  merit  to  others.  No ;  my  dear  Phil.,  be  generous,  candid, 
humane,  and  above  all,  good-natured. 

So  wishes  most  sincerely  the  tenderness  and  affection  of  your 

P.  FRANCIS. 

Lord  George  Sackville's  trial  is  the  great  object  of  all  public 
attention.  I  send  you  some  minutes  of  the  trial ;  others  I  hope  you 
have  received.  The  French  paper  is  authentic.  It  is  an  extract  of 
P.  Ferdinand's  account  of  the  Battle  of  Minden  to  our  Ministry. 
Farewell ! 

Shoar — shore  .  .  .  more  accurately  sewer. 
Mr.  Shuckburg  has  been  most  civil  to  me  ;  pray  thank  him. 
London,  March  25,  1760. 

I  shall  elsewhere  say  a  few  words  as  to  Lord  G.  Sack- 
ville,  and  the  absurd  claim  set  up  for  him  of  having 


1760]  COURT  OF  LISBON.  33 

written  Junius.  In  this  place  the  point  for  remark 
appears  to  be  that  Dr.  Francis  was  in  the  secret  with 
regard  to  the  influences  at  work  against  that  unfortunate 
nobleman. 

These  letters  Philip  acknowledges  as  having  been 
received  by  him  on  April  4.  The  following  letter  to  his 
father  crossed  them  : — 

Lisbon,  March  30,  1760. 

My  dear  Sir, — A  packet  arrived  here  last  Tuesday,  and  brought 
me  your  several  letters,  with  the  papers  enclosed.  I  thank  you 
most  sincerely  for  them  all.  The  secret  extracts  of  Prince  Ferdi- 
nand's letter,  which  you  bid  me  expect,  were  not  to  be  found  ;  but 
I  hope  to  receive  them  by  the  next  packet. 

Lord  Kinnoul  had  his  first  audience  of  the  King  on  the  21st ; 
the  only  event  of  any  importance  that  has  happened  since  my  letter 
of  the  10th  inst.  Our  time  has  hitherto  been  employed  in  making 
and  receiving  visits  of  ceremony,  in  which  the  secretary  bears  a 
principal  and  very  laborious  part.  I  have  been  sent  to  the  several 
ministers,  ambassadors,  &c.,  to  announce  His  Excellency's  arrival. 
As  they  all  live  at  many  miles'  distance,  the  fatigue  of  travelling 
through  the  sun  is  far  from  inconsiderable.  However,  I  had  the 
satisfaction  of  gratifying  my  curiosity  to  see  the  Conde  D'Oeyras 
Carvalho,  who  governs  the  kingdom  in  a  most  despotic  manner. 
His  influence  over  the  mind  of  a  very  weak  prince,  and  his  head- 
long resolution  in  the  management  of  one  great  affair,  have  gained 
him  a  reputation  in  England,  which  people  here  think  he  by  no 
means  deserves.  His  preserving  his  authority  with  the  King,  a-nd 
his  making  the  most  violent  use  of  absolute  power,  are  but  equivocal 
proofs  of  his  understanding  and  courage ;  cunning,  obstinacy,  and 
revenge  usque  ad  intefnecionem,  are .  qualities'  willingly  allowed. 
How  far  this  general  character  may  be  true,  the  event  of  our 
embassy  will  better  show.  He  received  me  with  politeness  and 
many  professions  of  regard  for  the  Earl  of  Kinnoul.  If  he 
be  what  we  imagine  him,  fair  words  will  be  probably  all  we  shall 
obtain. 

The  King  and  all  the  Royal  Family  received  Lord  Kinnoul  in  the 
most  gracious  manner.  They  say  such  a  reception  has  not  been 
known  at  this  court.  The  speech  he  made  was  accepted  as  an 
entire  satisfaction  for  the  affair  off  Cape  Lagos.  We  shall  proceed 
to  other  points,  when  the  ceremonial  visits  are  over.  The  weather 
is  prodigiously  hot ;  but,  as  everything  here  is  conducted  in  a 
VOL.  I.  D 


34  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

manner  diametrically  opposite  to  reason,  common  sense,  and  the 
practice  of  every  other  country,  shade  is  despised,  and  not  a  tree  to 
be  seen,  except  olives,  which  afford  none.  I  had  always  a  very  bad 
opinion  of  this  nation ;  but  at  present  I  have  entirely  altered  it. 
Instead  of  finding  them  moderately  execrable,  I  see  that  all  our 
ideas  of  what  is  superlatively  bad,  come  far  short  of  the  qualifi- 
cations of  a  Portuguese.  Imprimis,  I  take  for  granted  they  come 
into  the  world  the  wrong  way  ;  however,  certain  'tis,  they  rock  their 
children  in  the  cradle  heads  and  points,  not  sideways.  This  in- 
genious method  seems  happily  calculated  to  prevent  their  sleeping 
by  any  accident.  The  boys  go  to  school  in  heavy  cloaks,  which 
cover  all  but  their  eyes,  and  always  march  with  a  becoming  gravity. 
This  fashion  of  walking  prevails  so  strongly,  that  they  will  even 
suffer  themselves  to  be  run  over,  rather  than  discompose  themselves 
by  stirring  out  of  the  way.  The  first  day  I  went  out,  my  chaise 
ran  over  a  man  and  two  boys.  The  postilion  took  no  kind  of  notice 
of  it,  nor  even  turned  back  his  head.  I  endeavoured  to  stop  and 
get  out,  but  could  not  make  the  driver  understand  me.  It  was 
happy  for  me  he  did  not.  The  least  expression  of  concern  or 
humanity  for  the  sufferers  might  have  been  fatal  to  me.  The  mob 
would  certainly  have  murdered  me  ;  whereas  by  persisting  boldly, 
they  either  think  one  in  the  right,  or  are  intimidated. 

This  is  a  sample  of  the  Portuguese  manner  of  thinking.  If  a 
servant  offends,  we  nuist  not  strike,  but  kill  him  ;  he  will  assuredly 
revenge  a  blow  by  assassinating  his  master,  without  running  the 
least  risk  of  punishment,  whereas  his  death  would  be  attended  with 
no  sort  of  inconvenience.  The  King  is  a  beggar ;  his  troops  beggars  ; 
the  nobility  utter  beggars ;  but  no  term  is  poor  enough  to  express 
the  beggary  of  the  Plebs  (the  commons).  Let  it  suffice  to  say  that 
half  a  moidore  would  purchase  every  crime  that  even  a  Portuguese 
could  commit. 

This  city  affords  most  shocking  and  astonishing  scenes  of  ruins. 
All  the  handsomest  part  of  it  was  destroyed  by  the  earthquake. 
We  ride  through  the  remains  of  the  town  with  fear  and  trembling. 
The  people  are  so  perverse  and  dilatory,  that  they  have  left  whole 
ranges  of  walls  standing  unsupported,  which  frequently  fall  and 
crush  the  passengers,  who  walk  under  them  quite  unconcerned.  I 
think  this  is  the  dullest  place  I  ever  saw  ;  no  kind  of  diversion  going 
forward,  especially  in  Lent.  We  visit  for  ever. 

I  hope  Mr.  Adair  is  well,  my  uncle  Jewell,  and  Nancy.  When 
you  write  to  Ireland,  pray  remember  me.  My  best  respects  wait 
upon  Mr.  Calcraft,  Mr.  Wade,  Mr.  Dormer,  and  Mr.  Chitty,  and  all 
friends.  I  am  perfectly  well,  and  live  in  great  state,  and  am  highly 


1760]  IMPRESSIONS  OF  PORTUGAL.  35 

considered  as  an  appendix  to  his  Excellency.     But  respice  finem. 
All's  well  tliat  ends  well. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  most  sincerely, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

Lisbon,  April  14,  1760. 

My  dear  Sir, — I  have  received  your  letter  of  March  25,  and 
thank  you  for  the  very  great  trouble  you  took  in  writing  me  an 
account  of  Lord  George  Sackville's  trial.  It  furnished  a  very  in- 
teresting entertainment  to  many  people  here.  I  return  you  enclosed 
the-remainder  of  Lord  Charles  Hay's.  Prince  Ferdinand's  letter  is 
most  important,  and  shall  be  secret. 

The  character  I  gave  you  of  this  nation,  in  my  last,  was  perhaps 
too  harsh ;  to  speak  more  favourably  of  them  I  ought  to  say  that 
their  abject  slavery,  ignorance,  and  beggary  are  their  misfortunes  ; 
that  pride,  sloth,  perverse  obstinacy,  ingratitude,  cowardice,  and 
revenge  are  the  foibles  of  the  Portuguese.  As  to  more  abominable 
vices,  such  as  treachery,  murder,  assassination,  &c.,  they  are  only 
unlucky  in  having  a  hundred  times  the  natural  propensity  to  them 
that  any  other  nation  can  boast  of. 

The  more  ridiculous  parts  of  their  character  are  exactly  described 
in  Gulliver's  account  of  Lagado  under  Laputa :  '  the  houses  very 
strongly  built,  and  most  of  them  out  of  repair.  The  people  in  the 
streets  walk  slow,  look  wild,  their  eyes  fixed,  and  are  generally  in 
rags,'  &c.  (I  never  knew  a  soil  so  unhappily  cultivated,  &c.) 

I  intended  to  have  desired  you  to  send  me  a  suit  of  silk  clothes 
for  the  birthday  of  his  Most  Faithful  Majesty  on  June  6 ;  but  my 
Lord  Kinnoul,  who  sends  to  London  for  the  same  purpose,  under- 
takes, of  his  own  accord,  to  make  his  sister  buy  it,  and  send  it  by 
the  same  conveyance.  This  polite  offer  will  save  trouble  ;  and  I 
take  for  granted  he  means  a  present ;  but  I  shall  not  understand 
it  so. 

I  am  quite  jaded  with  writing  despatches.  Mr.  Shuckburg  will 
give  you  a  little  narrative,  which  contains  the  only  news  this 
wretched  place  affords.  Mr.  Allen  desires  to  be  earnestly  remem- 
bered to  you. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  most  sincerely, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mr.  Calcraft,  Mr.  Wade,  and  all,  all 
friends. 

Lisbon,  May  3,  1760. 

Dear  Sir, — Since  the  last  packet  sailed  on  the  17th  of  last  month, 
Lord  Kinnoul  took  us  all  upon  a  party,  I  cannot  call  it  of  pleasure, 

D   2 


36  MEMOIRS  OF   SIR   PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

into  the  country.  We  were  dragged  in  the  worst  carriages  by  the 
worst  cattle,  and  over  the  worst  roads .  of  Europe  about  thirty 
leagues,  to  Cintra  and  Mafra.  The  weather  was  uncommonly  bad, 
so  that  we  enjoyed  nothing  but  trouble  and  inconvenience.  I  was 
as  much  delighted  to  return  hither,  as  I  should  be  to  get  to  London 
from  hence.  Lisbon  is  certainly  the  dullest  and  most  stupid  place 
I  ever  was  in,  except  Portsmouth.  I  am  greatly  apprehensive  we 
shall  stay  here  until  winter. 

I  am  extremely  sensible  of  the  trouble  you  must  have  had  in 
attending  to  Lord  George's  trial ;  it  was  so  well  taken  down,  and  is 
in  itself  so  interesting,  that  my  title  of  secretary  acquired  no  small 
addition  of  importance  by  my  receiving  and  communicating  such 
authentic  intelligence  from  England. 

The  only  news  here  is  that  your  old  friend  Ensenada  is  recalled. 
Such  a  resolution  in  the  new  King  of  Spain  does  not  seem  very 
favourable  to  the  English ;  everybody  agrees  that  the  French 
interest  has  had  a  great  share  in  the  measure. 

My  compliments  to  Mr.  Calcraft  and  all  friends. 

I  am,  dear  Sir, 
Your  most  obliged  and  most  affectionate 

P.  FRANCIS. 

My  Lord  Kinnoul  works  me  to  death.  We  thought  his  cha- 
racter was  economy ;  I  can  assure  you  he  is  as  generous  as  a 

prince. 

Lisbon,  May  17,  1760. 

Dear  Sir, — I  hope  you  have  long  since  got  the  better  of  your 
court-martial  fever.  It  was  paying  too  dear  a  price  for  my  gratifi- 
cation in  reading  Lord  George's  trial.  At  present  I  believe  the 
whole  city  of  Lisbon  is  full  as  hot  as  the  horse-guards  could 
have  been ;  I  am  constantly  in  a  warm  bath.  From  the  nature  of 
this  climate  we  must  expect  the  heat  to  increase  every  day  until 
autumn,  so  that  our  present  is  cool  when  compared  to  what  it  will 
be  in  September.  I  dread  the  thoughts  of  remaining  here  so  long, 
but  I  think  it  seems  too  probable. 

Last  Thursday  the  Ambassador  gave  a  grand  entertainment  to 
several  of  the  first  nobility.  For  ignorance,  beggary,  meanness,  and 
pride  they  certainly  have  not  their  fellows  in  Christendom.  An 
English  tailor  is  a  fine  gentleman  in  appearance  when  compared  to 
the  first  duke  in  this  land.  Baskerville's  Virgil  was  produced  after 
dinner,  but  by  no  means  attracted  their  attention ;  very  few  of 
them  knew  in  what  language  it  was  written.  Upon  being  asked  if 
I  understood  Latin  I  was  unfortunate  enough  to  say  I  did ;  but  I 
fear  it  lessened  my  credit  among  them.  For  I  had  certainly  won 


1760]  LETTERS  TO  AND  FROM  PORTUGAL.  37 

some  of  their  hearts  by  gorging  them  at  dinner  till  the  tears  ran 
clown  their  cheeks.  This  is  literally  a  fact ;  they  ate  until  evidently 
they  were  on  the  point  of  bursting. 

Of  learning,  or  any  other  accomplishment  whatever,  they  have  no 
idea ;  riding  is  their  chief  study,  and  in  that  they  pretend  to  excel. 
Among  this  crew  of  wretches  I  must  except  two  noblemen,  with 
whom  you  are  acquainted.1  Their  superior  understanding  and 
merit  have  produced  an  effect  very  natural  in  Portugal ;  they  are 
feared,  consequently  ill  used  at  court,  and  despised  and  hated  by 
the  rest  of  the  nobility.  You  have  heard  that  the  Portuguese  have 
a  superstitious  notion  of  their  King  Sebastian's  returning  and 
governing  the  kingdom  one  day  or  other.  They  are  now  perfectly 
satisfied  that  Sebastian  Jose  (Carvalho)  was  the  man  who  fought  in 
Africa.  Some  indeed  are  of  another  opinion — that  it  is  the  devil 
himself  who  has  been  gracious  enough  to  honour  Portugal  with  his 
presence,  and  governs  his  best  beloved  as  devils  should  be  governed. 
I  am  of  the  latter  opinion. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  most  truly, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 

It  is  so  burning  hot  at  this  moment  that  I  can  scarce  wag  a 
finger. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mr.  Calcraffc.  I  hope  Mr.  Fox  and  his 
family  are  well. 

Remember  me  to  all  friends. 


My  dear  Phil., — Had  I  been  honoured  with  the  commission  for 
your  clothes,  how  should  I  tremble  for  the  glories  of  his  most 
Faithful  Majesty's  birthday  !  I  should  be  afraid  of  calms  and 
storms  and  contrary  winds  ;  I  should  even  be  afraid  of  the  French 
and  their  paltry  six-and-thirty  gun-frigates.  Let  me  thank  you  for 
the  engagement ;  it  was  a  gallant  one,  and  maintains  the  national 
superiority  we  have  held  in  every  action  of  the  war,  since  the  foul 
affair  of  the  Mediterranean. 

By  your  account,  the  Portuguese  are  the  Jews  of  Christianity, 
the  glory  of  God  in  His  mercy  and  forbearance,  the  dishonour  and 
reproach  of  human  nature,  if  their  vileness  could  be  justly  charged 
upon  human  nature.  No,  surely ;  they  are  the  genuine  produce  of 
private  education  and  public  t  government.  The  descendants  of 
Mr.  Allen,  if  educated  in  Portugal,  would  be  dishonest,  malicious, 
cruel.  A  Portuguese  colony  planted  in  England,  would  send  forth 


The  Visconde  de  Ponte  de  Lima  and  his  son. 


38  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

defenders  of  liberty  and  reason.  Not  very  distant  from,  this  subject 
is  the  extraordinary  behaviour  of  Lord  Ferrers  at  his  execution  :  he 
was  a  coward  by  a  stronger  proof  than  that  of  many  a  thrashing  ; 
he  was  cruel.  He  yet  out-died  all  the  deaths  of  antiquity.  He 
lived  a  Portuguese,  and  died  an  Englishman. 

Thus  far  did  I  write  on  Tuesday  in  the  determined  dulness — for 
dulness  is  most  determined — of  writing  to  you  every  week.  I  threw 
by  the  paper,  ashamed  that  friendship  and  affection  could  not  be 
more  entertaining.  No  news  neither.  Lord  George  is  dead  in 
fame,  as  Lord  Ferrers  in  hemp.  But  perhaps  next  week :  it  will 
bring  over  the  Royal  Family  and  its  Bigby  from  Ireland.  I  could 
send  you  a  very  curious  epistle  I  received  from  that  same  secretary 
about  a  month  ago,  and  my  no  less  curious  answer :  but  of  these 
matters  hereafter.  In  the  mean  time,  I  can  not  and  will  not  be 
anxious  about  my  own  futurity,  while  I  know  you  have  so  fair  and 
hopeful  a  prospect  of  being  happy.  Let  me  explain  my  own  sense 
of  happiness — that  of  making  others  hajipy.  'Tis  all  I  know  of 
virtue,  all  of  morals  (and  almost  all  of  religion). 

Farewell !     Yours  ever, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

My  constant  love  to  Mr.  Allen. 

Indeed,  my  dear  Phil.,  if  your  Lisbon  sun  burns  hotter  than  ours, 
he  burns  in  vengeance  for  the  sins  of  the  Portuguese.  The  real 
fires  of  religion,  if  any  such  there  be,  or  the  artificial  fires  of  super- 
stition, cannot  be  hotter.  I  drink  Mr.  Allen  to  preserve  me  from 
melting  and  dissolution.  I  dine  alone,  and  Puss,  for  Puss  is  grateful 
and  good-natured,  sings  while  we  are  eating.  Believe  me,  Phil.,  the 
songs  of  Italy  and  your  Italians  are  not  half  so  sweet  as  Puss's  pur- 
rings  of  gratitude  and  good-nature. 

In  return  for  your  feast  of  Lisbonites,  take  this  as  a  fact :  the 
moment  poor  Lord  Ferrers  was  turned  off,  our  unfeeling  City 
magistrates  called  for  their  hampers,  drew  their  corks,  and  eat 
their  hams,  as  if  he  hung  there  merely  like  a  manikin  in  a  kitchen, 
to  frighten  the  flies  from  the  pewters. 

Do  you  know  that  I  almost  rejoice  in  your  rebukings  about 
Virgil ;  will  you  never  be  wiser,  than  to  be  wiser  than  other  people  ? 
be  they  for  ever  Portuguese,  with  whom  you  converse.  However, 
I  send  you  a  specimen  of  Baskerville's  Bible,  that  will  do  honour  to 
Christianity  (be  it  said  without  profaneness),  though  published  by 
heretics.  Show  it  to  your  Visconde  de  Ponte  de  Lima  and  his  son, 
and  suffer  me  to  honour  them  under  the  great,  good  character  you 
gave  them ;  cultivate  your  acquaintance  with  the  young  nobleman, 


1760]  LETTERS  TO  AND  FROM  PORTUGAL.  39 

and  gently  inculcate  to  him,  that  the  esteem  of  an  English  gentle- 
man is  well  worthy  of  the  proudest  lord  upon  earth. 

Send  me  your  patterns  of  silks  and  linens  ;  you  will  be  able  to 
judge  by  your  Lord  Kinnoul's  birthday  suit  in  what  style  he  would 
have  his  secretary  appear  :  never  under- dress  him.  I  imagine  you 
are  to  be  paid — a  very  happy  circumstance — by  government :  but 
be  greatly  cautious  of  taking  money  from  Lord  Kinnoul ;  if  possible, 
avoid  it.  Mr.  Calcraft's  credit  is  yours  ;  yet  I  think  you  must 
draw,  in  pure  delicacy,  on  our  very  excellent  Mr.  Wood. 

What  is  become  of  Mr.  Allen  ?  No  distance,  I  hope,  but  that  of 
place,  could  hinder  you  from  remembering  him  in  every  letter.  .  .  . 
Colonel  Sandford  is  come  to  London,  mention  your  gratitude  to 
him,  as  you  ought,  in  your  next,  and  pray  be  always  mindful  of 
your  Doctor  Bruce  ;  he  came  to  town  last  week.  He  will  be  pleased 
with  every  mention  of  him.  It  is  not  wandering  to  say,  that  all 
your  brother  clerks  are  greatly  good  to  you. 

And  now,  Phil.,  in  the  spirit  of  confidence,  in  your  next  ask  me 
what  is  become  of  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr.  Rigby ;  why  I  have  never  men- 
tioned them  ?  Are  not  the  promises  of  great  men  worth  remember- 
ing, at  least,  worth  repeating  ?  this  will  be  your  manner — the 
account  of  the  birthday,  and  profess  your  own  gratitude  to  Mr. 
Pox. 

.  .  .  Farewell !  be  good-natured,  and  you  will  certainly  be  most 
happy. 

Yours  ever, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

This  letter  is  rather  prating  than  writing  ;  but  I  sat  down  to 
answer  yours  the  very  moment  I  received  it. 

London,  June  3,  1760. 

The  correspondence  Continues :  but  several  letters  are 
omitted,  as  of  inferior  interest. 

Lisbon,  July  24,  1760. 

Dear  Sir, — I  have  two  of  your  former  letters  of  the  3rd  and  24th 
of  June  to  acknowledge  and  thank  you  for,  which  arrived  since  the 
last  packet  sailed  from  hence.  You  desire  an  account  of  the  birth- 
day. Let  it  suffice  to  tell  you  that  nothing  can  be  more  mean  and 
contemptible  than  this  court,  and  everything  that  belongs  to  his 
Most  Faithful  Majesty.  He  lives  in  a  house  which  an  English 
commoner  would  almost  despise.  I  assure  you,  take  it  altogether, 
there  never  was  such  a  shabby  specimen  of  royalty.  Between 


40  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

ourselves,  the  late  marriage,  which  has  given  such  joy  here  and 
in  England,  will  probably  have  as  little  effect,  as  the  Grand  Vizier 
seems  to  have  intended.  The  women  of  the  Braganza  family  are 
notoriously  barren,  and  this  lady  has  been  kept  unmarried  (designedly 
I  dare  say)  until  the  age  of  eight-and-twenty,  an  age  that  affords 
little  hopes  of  children  in  this  country.  The  Prince,  Don  Pedro,  has 
hitherto  lived  in  an  unviolated  course  of  chastity,  which  people  here 
are  not  good-natured  enough  to  place  among  his  moral  virtues. 

I  see  I  gave  you  too  high  an  idea  of  my  clothes ;  1  only  meant 
comparatively.  For,  as  lace  is  prohibited,  and  most  of  them  use 
silks  of  their  own  miserable  manufacture,  a  tolerably  handsome 
suit  is  uncommon.  As  to  clothes,  for  further  provision,  I  hope  I  shall 
want  none.  I  bought  a  black  frock  and  silk  waistcoat  upon  my  arrival ; 
and  have  since  made  a  suit  of  camblet,  which  is  handsome.  The 
violent  heat  of  the  weather  made  it  unavoidable.  Everything  is  lined 
with  silk  here.  These,  with  other  smaller  expenses,  which  it  is  needless 
to  enumerate,  have  exhausted  all  my  money  ;  but  I  shall  wait  for  your 
direction  before  I  raise  more.  I  ought  to  mention  washing,  a  very 
dear  article,  and  the  making  of  the  silk  suit.  I  natter  myself  with 
the  hopes  of  seeing  London  by  the  1st  of  November  and  not  before. 
If  I  have  time  I  will  certainly  write  to  Mr.  Dobson  upon  his  new 
dignity.  At  Lisbon  he  would  have  the  title  of  Corregidor  Mor. 
We  have  a  jxjrson  here,  who  never  knows  whether  the  weather  is 
cold  or  hot,  but  by  consulting  his  thermometer.  Let  the  Justice  be 
informed  that  it  is  now  at  ninety  in  the  shade — a  little  more,  and 
we  should  breathe  fire.  The  Portuguese  women,  in  general,  are  far 
from  being  handsome  enough  to  excite  either  love  or  jealousy  ;  in. 
the  first  place,  the  best  of  them  are  but  pretty  Jewesses,  of  whom 
some  very  few  are  really  pretty  ;  their  complexions,  generally  very 
bad,  are  utterly  destroyed  by  hereditary  impurity  of  the  blood.  With- 
out such  radical  corruption  it  would  be  difficult  to  account  for  the 
amazing  and  prodigious  ugliness  whicfc  prevails  among  them  all. 
Sallow  complexions,  distorted  features,  blotches,  cicatrices,  &c.  &c. 
in  every  visible  part  of  them.  But  this  is  nothing  compared  to 
what  the  smell  suffers  in  their  company. 

I  question  whether  they  are  at  present  so  subject  to  jealousy  as 
we  have  imagined.  Some  old  customs,  still  observed  with  regard  to 
their  wives,  and  their  not  appearing  constantly  abroad  (which  last 
may  justly  be  atti-ibuted  to  poverty),  I  believe  is  all  the  founda- 
tion we  had  for  this  opinion  ;  not  but  that  I  should  be  sorry  Mr. 
Chitty  were  dans  le  cos ;  for  he  would  certainly  fall  a  sacrifice  to 
their  natural  taste  for  assassination,  though  not  to  their  jealousy. 
What  an  ample  field  for  daggers  !  Per  todos  os  Deos  ! 


1760]  DIVERSIONS  OF  LISBON.  41 

I  should  not  neglect  to  inform,  you,  that  on  the  second  of  this 
month  the  Ambassador  gave  a  most  magnificent  and  splendid  enter- 
tainment to  the  ministers  and  nobility  belonging  to  the  court, 
upon  the  occasion  of  the  marriage.  A  noble  dinner,  a  fine  concert 
for  the  ladies,  and  at  night  some  elegant  fireworks  exhibited  in  the 
garden,  where  twenty-two  swivel  guns  were  planted  on  an  eminence 
to  announce  the  healths.  The  house  was  handsomely  illuminated, 
as  were  all  those  of  the  English  merchants  here.  All  Lisbon,  I 
believe,  was  assembled  to  see  us.  At  twelve  o'clock  the  company  sat 
down  to  a  supper,  prepared  with  a  profusion  and  elegance  equal  to 
the  rest  of  the  day.  Open  house  was  kept,  and  my  Lord  Kinnoul 
was  to  come  off  for  650L  :  it  did  us  great  honour. 

On  Sunday  the  13th  inst.,  I  was  invited  by  Sir  Harry  Frank- 
land  to  bee  a  grand  bull-feast  from  his  Barraca  or  Lodge.  To  have 
a  true  idea  of  the  Portuguese,  you  should  be  acquainted  with  this 
their  favourite  diversion.  I  think  I  shall  not  be  severe  upon  them 
when  I  say  it  is  the  most  abominable  entertainment  that  was  ever 
invented ;  but  at  the  same  time,  I  confess,  nothing  could  be  better 
adapted  to  the  genius  and  disposition  of  the  spectators. 

I  hope  Mr.  Fox  and  his  family  are  well.  I  hear  of  his  having 
lately  given  a  place  to  Mr.  Powell  in  his  office,  in  a  manner  that  does 
him  infinite  honour ;  it  was  indeed  a  masterpiece.  Mr.  Calcraft 
always  has  my  best  wishes  and  thanks.  [Col.  Sandford,  Dr. 
Bruce,  and  Mr.  Adams,  Mr.  Wade,  Mr.  Dormer  I  wish  to  be  con- 
stantly remembered  to.  How  does  Mr.  Featherstone  recover  ?  ]  I 
have  written  to  the  Justice. 

I  cannot  say  I  approve  of  Mr.  Rigby's  mode  of  proceeding,  nor 
would  I  have  you  expect  anything  from  him. 

On  Monday  last  two  of  the  King's  brothers  were  banished  ;  they 
had  hitherto  been  treated  as  Highnesses,  and  taken  rank  as  Princes 
of  the  blood.  I  suppose  this  fellow  will  banish  the  King  himself  at  last. 
I  wish,  with  all  my  heart,  he  would  take  a  fancy  to  banishing  us  from 
this  unhappy  country  ;  I  should  be  very  well  contented  never  to  see 
it  or  him  again.  My  Lord  Marshal  arrived  here  last  Sunday  from 
Madrid,  and  goes  to  England  by  this  packet.  He  is  as  grave  as  a 
Spanish  grandee  ;  but  extremely  well  bred. 

I  am  afraid  I  have  tired  you  with  a  very  uninteresting  detail ;  for, 
in  fact,  what  is  there  in  this  country,  by  which  you  can  possibly  be 
affected  ?  However,  it  will  not  be  useless,  if  it  proves  my  goodwill. 

Need  I  say  that  letters  from  England  are  always  joyfully  received 
here  ? 

Mr.  Allen  is  well,  and  desires  to  be  remembered  to  you. 
__  I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  very  truly, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 


42  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

Lisbon,  August  22,  1760. 

Dear  Sir, — Since  my  last  of  the  4th  inst.  nothing  of  any  con- 
sequence has  happened  here,  except  that  an  entire  rupture  with  the 
Pope  has  been  declared  by  three  royal  edicts,  forbidding  all  com- 
munication between  Portugal  and  Rome.  Besides  the  weakness  of 
that  See,  His  Holiness'  Ministry  are  by  no  means  able  to  vie  with 
Carvalho  in  cunning  ;  and  the  low  politics  of  Italian  priests,  if 
opposed  to  regularity  and  firmness,  are  easily  overturned.  They 
say  this  kingdom  will  save  above  two  hundred  thousand  pounds  by 
the  rupture,  which  used  to  be  sent  annually  to  Rome  to  purchase 
bulls  and  dispensations.  It  seems  that  this  Ministry  is  determined 
that  whatever  accomodation  shall  be  hereafter  concluded,  such  im- 
poverishing abuses  shall  never  be  again  admitted.  However 
advantageous  such  disputes  among  the  Catholic  powers  may  appear 
to  be  for  England,  I  very  much  question  whether  it  be  our  real 
interest  that  Portugal  should  recover  from  the  ignorance  and  depen- 
dence in  which  she  is  sunk. 

I  send  you  enclosed  a  pasquinade  lately  made  upon  Cardinal 
Torregiani,  the  Pope's  Secretary  of  State,  who  is  accused  of  having 
brought  matters  to  this  extremity  by  his  rash  and  violent  conduct. 

I  hear  no  accounts  of  our  return,  which  puts  me  out  of  all 
patience.  I  shall  tell  you  hereafter  why  it  vexes  me  particularly. 
One  would  think  people  at  home  are  blind,  or  have  lost  their  senses, 
or  pay  no  attention  at  all  to  this  country.  A  few  days  ago  I  took 
up  twenty-five  moidores  upon  Mr.  Wood's  account,  five  of  which  I 
gave  to  John.  People  here  set  so  small  a  value  on  money,  that  a 
less  sum  would  have  disgraced  me  in  the  eyes  of  the  merchant  to 
whom  I  applied.  This  circumstance  is  most  true. 

The  silk  fabric  here,  which  since  the  earthquake  had  three  hun- 
dred workmen,  is  so  much  declined  that  at  present  it  has  literally 
but  three,  and  everything  in  the  country  seems  to  flourish  in  the 
same  proportion. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  very  sincerely, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 

I  beg  to  be  remembered  to  Mr.  Calcraft  (Dr.  Bruce,  Mr.  Dobson, 
Mr.  Adair,  Mr.  Wade)  and  all  friends,  and  I  hope  my  uncle  and 
cousin  Tench,  whom  you  never  mention,  are  well.  As  to  the  quality 
of  my  letters  I  shall  not  dispute  with  you,  but  in  quantity  and 
number  you  must  allow  they  have  an  evident  advantage  over 

you. 

London,  August  26.  1760. 

Yours  of  the  4th  I  received  at  two  o'clock,  and  my  letter  must  be 
at  your  office  before  seven.  Puss  and  I  have  just  dined,  and  Sally 


1760]  LETTERS  TO  AND  FROM  PORTUGAL.  43 

has  drunk  Mr.  Secretary  Francis  in  a  glass  of  Mr.  Allen's.  How 
well  I  shall  account  for  the  remainder  of  my  time  I  really  do  not 
know. 

How  rich  will  you  be — money  in  the  funds  undoubtedly.  Mr. 
Wood  says  you  shall  receive  the  salary  of  your  office.  That  very 
excellent  Mr.  Wood — won't  you  rejoice  with  him  when  I  tell  you 
that  Cope  is  a  captain  in  the  Blagneys,  of  which  Calcraft  is 
Lieutenant-Colonel.  This  in  a  great  measure  by  Mr.  Calcraft's 
interest  with  Bigby.  Yet  Bigby  is  ...  but  don't  be  uneasy. 
Never  was  I  upon  such  terms  at  Holland  House.  In  your  own  lan- 
guage, entirely  trusted.  Cultivate  the  confidence,  as  I  shall  mine,  by 
every  method  that  is  not  sordid  and  villanous.  Lord  Kinnoul  is,  by 
all  accounts,  a  good  man  ;  he  may  be  infinitely  useful  to  your  future 
fortune.  This  is  the  great  comfort  of  your  continuing  in  Portugal. 
But  more  of  this  in  my  next. 

Most  affectionately  yours. 

Lisbon,  September  9,  1760. 

Dear  Sir, — We  continue  in  our  usual  insipid  style,  nor  indeed  is 
there  any  prospect  of  our  ever  being  troubled  with  vanity  as  long  as 
we  stay  in  this  miserable  country.  A  pacquet  arrived  about  ten  days 
ago,  and  brought  me  your  letter  of  August  12,  but  not  the  slightest 
intelligence  about  our  return.  The  next  will  either  determine  our 
immediate  departure,  or  fix  us  here  for  the  winter.  My  heart  aches 
at  the  thought  of  such  a  catastrophe. 

I  am  very  well  pleased  with  the  expectation  you  give  me  of  going 
to  the  Congress,  and  depend  entirely  upon  every  interest  that  my 
Lord  Kinnoul  can  possibly  employ  for  me,  but  I  think  there  is  not 
the  least  probability  of  his  going  thither  himself.  No,  I  fancy  he  is 
tolerably  well  satisfied  by  this  time  with  such  expeditions.  The 
great  object  I  have  in  view  is  in  going  to  Paris  whenever  a  peace 
is  concluded.  As  to  courts  of  this  rank  and  character,  one  may 
reside  at  them  for  ever  without  ever  knowing  anything  beyond 
their  own  paltry  particular  intrigues.  However,  I  do  not  think 
my  time  absolutely  lost,  as  this  country,  though  it  makes  so  mean 
a  figure  in  Europe,  is  closely  connected  by  trade  and  political  in- 
terests with  England.  It  certainly  is  not  the  place  in  the  world  to 
polish  one's  manners. 

For  my  own  part  I  am  not  sanguine  enough  to  expect  anything 
from  Mr.  Bigby,  and  yet  I  believe  I  am  not  quite  so  phlegmatic  as 
you  imagine.  When  you  have  it  in  your  power  to  serve  him,  you  may 
expect  your  reward.  But  if  that  should  ever  be  the  case,  it  will  not 
be  amiss  to  stipulate  beforehand. 


44  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP   FRANCIS.  [1760 

Last  Wednesday  his  Most  Faithful  Majesty  laid  the  foundation 
stone  of  the  high  altar  of  a  church  to  be  erected  on  the  very  spot 
where  he  was  wounded  ;  it  is  dedicated  '  Beatee  Virgini  Mariee  Libe- 
ratrici  et  Sancto  Josepho  Protectori.'  I  believe  this  is  all  the  news 
that  Portugal  affords.  We  are  literally  placed  in  the  tag  end  of 
the  world,  where  it  is  scarce  possible  anything  should  happen  of 
importance  to  the  rest  of  it. 

I  hope  Mr.  Fox  and  his  family  are  well.  My  best  respects  to  Mr. 
Calcraft. 

I  am  in  great  hopes  of  seeing  you  this  day  six  months. 

Yours  most  affectionately, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

My  compliments  wait  on  Mrs.  Sally. 

From  Dr.  Francis. 

My  last,  of  last  Tuesday,  was  a  conversation  between  Mr.  Wood 
and  Mr.  Dobson,  to  whom  you  are  really  much  obliged.  He  is  a 
good  man,  and  loves  you.  Some  few  days  since,  I  saw  Mr.  Wood. 
He  said  a  great  many  handsome  things  of  you,  for  I  think  you  may 
now  begin  to  be  trusted  with  your  own  merit.  He  recommends  to 
you  with  great  earnestness,  the  collecting  of  all  possible  anecdotes 
of  the  present  reign  of  Portugal,  the  earthquake,  the  conspiracy, 
and  even  the  horrors  of  the  execution,  &c.  A  work  of  this  kind 
would  not  only  be  extremely  valuable  in  itself,  but  might  possibly 
introduce  you  personally  to  Mr.  Pitt.  Everything  is  within  hope 
for  a  young  man  in  your  situation.  Mr.  Pitt  himself,  no  offence  to 
his  present  greatness,  is  a  proof  of  it.  I  promised  to  send  you  a 
paragraph  of  news  in  every  letter,  you  must  be  contented  with  one 
single  article  at  present.  We  have  taken  the  island  of  Dumat,  I 
believe  near  Quiberon  Bay.  It  commands  the  harbour  of  Croisic. 
Sir  Edward  Hawke  says  he  can  winter  the  fleet  there,  if  it  be  neces- 
sary. 

I  dined  last  Sunday  for  the  first  time  this  summer  at  Hampstead, 
and  with  your  friends  Mr.  Gorman,  Mr.  FitzPatrick,  Mr.  Butler ; 
you  are  obliged  to  them,  they  said  a  thousand  kind  things  of  you, 
and  you  will  believe  I  heard  them  with  pleasure. 

Farewell !     I  am  ever  your  affectionate 

P.  FRANCIS. 

September  16,  1760. 

By  your  office,  you  should  understand  paper.  Is  not  this  deli- 
cately fine  ?  It  is  the  first  trial  of  Mr.  Baskerville's  writing-pa 


1760]  END  OF  THE  PORTUGUESE  MISSION.  46 

The  last  letter  of  Philip  Francis  joyfully  announces  to 
his  father  the  speedy  return  of  the  mission. 

Lisbon,  October  29,  1760. 

Dear  Sir, — A  packet  arrived  on  the  18th  inst.  with  five  mails 
fall  of  glorious  news  for  the  public,  and  agreeable  news  for  us  in 
particular.  I  need  not  answer  your  several  kind  letters  at  present, 
as  I  hope  to  have  the  happiness  of  seeing  you  within  a  few  days  after 
this  reaches  London.  My  Lord  Kinnoul  has  made  such  expedition 
in  preparing  for  his  departure,  that  we  shall  go  on  board  the  '  Isis  ' 
next  Saturday  evening,  and,  if  the  wind  proves  favourable,  proceed 
early  next  morning.  We  had  our  audience  of  leave  yesterday.  His 
Excellency  was  received,  as  usual,  most  graciously.  After  all  the 
formal  audiences  were  finished  the  Conde  d'Oeyras  went  to  him, 
and  told  him  that  his  Majesty  desired  to  speak  to  the  Earl  of  Kin- 
noul in  private  ;  when  he  went  in,  the  King  began  by  saying  in  Portu- 
guese, '  My  Lord,  the  British  Ambassador  has  left  my  court,  but  I 
would  not  let  the  Earl  of  Kinnoul  depart  without  informing  him  of 
the  particular  esteem  I  have  for  his  person,  and  how  greatly  I  am 
pleased  with  his  conduct.  My  Lord,  no  man  knows  better  than 
you  do,  how  intimately  the  interests  of  the  two  nations  are  connected, 
and  I  believe  no  man  is  better  disposed  to  support  the  harmony  and 
union,  which  is  for  their  mutual  advantage.  I  know  what  an  es- 
teem the  King,  my  brother,  has  for  you,  and  the  confidence  he 
places  in  you,  and  I  am  persuaded  you  will  employ  your  best  offices 
in  cultivating  the  friendship  that  subsists  so  happily  between  us.' 
His  Majesty  pronounced  all  this  in  an  open,  easy,  and  very  friendly 
manner.  In  concluding,  he  said,  '  Although  the  etiquette  of  the  two 
courts  does  not  permit  the  giving  presents  to  the  ministers  of  each 
other,  yet  I  cannot  avoid  giving  my  Lord  Kinnoul  a  particular  mark 
of  my  private  regard  for  him,  which  I  beg  he  will  accept  and  wear 
for  my  sake.'  So  saying  he  presented  him  with  a  gold  box,  con- 
taining an  immense  brilliant,  which  the  jewellers  here  value  at 
thirteen  hundred  pounds.  As  my  Lord  will  choose  to  tell  this  most 
handsome  story  himself,  I  would  not  have  made  it  too  public. 
The  Portuguese  call  this  compliment  a  grand  jineza.  It  is  with 
difficulty  I  can  find  time  to  write,  for  literally  I  am  almost  fagged  to 
death.  No  wine  can  be  brought.  Mr.  Adair's  is  ready  at  Oporto, 
and  only  waits'  for  a  convoy. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  most  affectionately, 

PHIL.  FRANCIS. 


46  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

Lord  Khmoul,  with  his  secretary  and  suite,  embarked 
on  board  H.  M.  ship  the  '  Isis  '  on.  November  1,  1760. 
Their  arrival  at  Plymouth  was  reported  on  the  19th.1 
Thus  safely  and  instructively  terminated  the  initiation  of 
Philip  Francis  into  the  mysteries  of  diplomacy  and 
foreign  courts. 

The  political  experience  and  knowledge  of  men's  cus- 
toms and  manners,  gained  by  a  youth  of  such  talents 
and  industry,  must  have  been  invaluable  to  him  in  after 
life.  Notwithstanding  his  severe  and  mechanical  labours 
as  secretary  to  the  mission,  he  acquired  considerable 
proficiency  in  the  French,  Portuguese,  and  Spanish 
languages,  and  at  the  same  time  also  applied  himself 
to  the  study  of  Italian,  &c.  He  kept  no  journal,  but 
such  was  his  interest  in  his  public  duties  that  he  tran- 
scribed for  his  own  record  and  use,  an  entire  MS.  folio 
volume  of  several  hundred  pages  of  political,  commercial, 
and  statistical  documents  connected  with  the  embassy, 
and  the  modern  history  of  Portugal.  Eighty-eight 
pages  contain  a  digest  of  the  British  embassy  transac- 
tions in  Lisbon,  from  1746  to  1752  inclusive.  Further, 
from  the  correspondence,  particularly  of  Pitt  with  Lord 
Kinnoul,  Francis  must  have  been  thus  early  interested 
in  the  study  of  the  laws  of  nations,  Pitt  frequently 
treating  international  questions.  The  Kinnoul  embassy, 
of  course,  used  a  particular  cipher,  and  Francis  thus 
became  versed  in  that  diplomatic  art,  and  in  the  various 
clandestine  modes  of  obtaining  secret  foreign  papers  then 
common  to  all  courts.  Many  of  the  Kinnoul  despatches 
to  Pitt  are  headed,  *  private,'  '  confidential,'  '  secret,' 
'  most  secret ; '  '  a  copy  of  a  letter  from  a  spy  ; '  &c.,  &c. 
Francis,  moreover,  became  deeply  interested  in  the  trade 
and  commerce  of  his  own  countrymen.  The  resident 

1  Admiralty  Papers  and  Log  Book. 


1760]  AFFAIRS  OF  PORTUGAL.  47 

British  merchants  were  perpetual  complainants  against 
heavy  import  duties,  and  in  conflict  with  the  Oporto 
Wine  Company  and  the  foreign  courts  of  law.  The 
embassy  at  this  time  was  also  continually  occupied  by 
memorials  from  home  merchants,  and  Anglo-Portuguese 
residents,  for  redress  of  alleged  grievances.  The  wine 
duties  were  a  prominent  subject  of  complaint,  as  also  the 
adulteration  of  '  generous  '  port.  The  wine  growers  and 
the  exporting  merchants  retorted  accusations.  Both 
classes  accused  each  other  of  '  loading,'  and  '  spiritual- 
ising' the  fluid.  The  vineyard  owners  alleged  an  in- 
creasing demand  for  red  wine,  far  exceeding  any  pos- 
sible genuine  supply;  accusing  the  English  and  Scotch 
merchants  with  '  manufacturing '  the  excess  exported  to 
foreign  markets.  Probably  Lord  Kinnoul  .and  Francis 
left  the  trade  much  in  the  same  condition  as  to  pure  port 
in  which  they  found  it — a  superior  vintage,  age,  a  good 
price,  and  an  honest  wine-merchant  alone  ever  sup- 
plying consumers  with  '  good  old  port '  or  any  other  wines 
or  liquors. 

No  subject  appears  to  have  interested  Francis  more 
than  the  contest  then  raging  between  the  Portuguese  and 
Vatican  courts  and  the  Jesuits.  He  has  copied  all  the 
papers  and  correspondence  in  that  memorable  conflict,  in 
which  Carvalho  was  the  victor.  In  one  letter  of  Lord 
Kinnoul  to  Pitt  (in  Francis's  handwriting),  the  Scotch 
earl  narrates  almost  with  glee  the  arrival  in  the  Tagus  of 
the  cargo  of  300  Jesuit  priests  expelled  from  the  Portu- 
guese colonies,  and  the  active  reshipment  of  them  on  the 
23rd  July  for  Civita  Vecchia ;  the  Pope's  Portuguese 
Nuncio  in  vain  protesting.  Our  ambassador  narrates  how 
the  bold  Minister  of  the  King  gave  the  Nuncio  notice 
that  if  compelled  to  send  him  back  to  his  holy  master  in 
Eome,  no  other  papal  ambassador  should  ever  again  be 


48  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1760 

received  in  Portugal,  otherwise  than  in  the  same  secular 
character  as  the  representatives  of  England  and  France. 
Carvalho  warned  the  Nuncio,  that  the  year  17GO  was  an  era 
past  the  fifteenth  century,  and  that  new  limits  existed  of 
temporal  and  spiritual  rights.  There  can  be  no  doubt 
that  at  this  juncture  Carvalho  would  have  fully  played  out 
the  part  of  Lord  Thomas  Cromwell  had  his  royal  master 
been  possessed  with  the  spirit  and  motives  of  our  Henry 
VIII.  Lord  Kinnoul  wrote  Pitt  that  the  apparent  near 
approach  of  a  Catholic  reformation  astounded  the  Nuncio 
and  the  ultramontane  party  of  Lisbon.  This  particular 
despatch  (in  the  handwriting  also  of  Francis,  marked  '  pri- 
vate ')  was  specially  seen  by  George  III.,  and  probably 
no  little  gratified  our  Protestant  sovereign.  Many  of 
the  works  of  the  Jesuits  at  this  period  were  prohibited 
volumes,  all  known  to  Francis ;  and  in  after  years  he 
procured  and  bound  a  printed  copy  of  the  Portuguese 
decree  of  1770  prohibitory  of  numerous  liberal  and  free- 
thinking  English,  French,  and  other  continental  pub- 
lications— Fenelon  not  excepted — when  the  stream  of 
religious  bigotry  and  intolerance  had  turned  the  tables 
against  all  liberty  of  thought  and  the  freedom  of  the 
press. 

Francis,  on  his  return  to  London,  was  presented  at 
court  by  Lord  Kinnoul  and  *  graciously  received,'  but  his 
lordship  had  no  interest  to  do  more  than  make  known 
to  the  government  the  merits  of  his  secretary.  The 
earl  gave  him  the  highest  character  for  his  ability  and 
industry  as  secretary  to  the  embassy,  and  they  were 
friends  and  correspondents  during  life.  The  secretary 
was  doomed  to  the  disappointment  of  returning  to  the 
mere  drudgery  of  his  old  clerkship.  This  was  a  hard 
and  humiliating  descent,  but  he  was  far  from  being  down- 
cast, preserving  the  conviction  of  his  own  powers  of 


1760]          STUDIES  AFTER  RETURN  FROM  LISBON.  49 

ascent  in  life.  He  was  just  entering  the  year  of  his 
majority.  Such  a  mind  could  not  lay  fallow.  He  applied 
himself  with  ardour  not  only  to  perfect  and  extend  his 
classical  attainments  but  to  master  the  works  of  Bacon, 
Locke,  Montesquieu,  the  best  Greek  and  Eoman  authors ; 
and  combining  with  his  studies  the  volumes  of  the  best 
historians  of  modern  nations,  and  particularly  studying 
the  laws  and  constitution  of  his  own  country.  Some 
works  he  abstracted,  others  he  partially  translated.  One 
folio  manuscript  volume  of  nearly  300  pages,  wholly  in 
his  youthful  hand,  attests  his  extraordinary  powers  of 
application  and  the  solidity  of  his  studies.  It  commences 
with  a  short  view  of  the  principles  and  method  of  Lord 
Bacon's  'Instauratio  Magna,'  being  61  closely  written  folio 
pages.  Nor  is  it  a  simple  epitome  of  the  contents  and 
philosophy  of  Bacon.  The  digest  shows  the  remarkable 
reach  and  independence  of  Francis's  own  mind,  and  how 
deeply  he  must  have  studied  the  principles  of  British  law 
and  equity.  He  contrasts  and  criticises  the  opinions  of 
Bacon  and  Lord  Kaimes  on  the  two  systems  of  common  law 
and  equity,  summing  up  his  own  opinion  as  to  '  the  best 
law  being  that  which  leaves  least  to  the  judge,  and  the  best 
judge  who  leaves  least  to  himself.'  Two  of  his  own  com- 
mentaries on  points  upon  which  he  sets  himself  up  in  oppo- 
sition to  Bacon,  exhibit  remarkable  freedom  of  thought  and 
logical  power.  The  subjects  are  the  '  Soul,'  and  the 
foundations  of  the  Christian  religion,  as  stated  in  the 
'  Instauratio.'  On  both  arguments  he  differs  with  Bacon. 
Indeed,  at  this  period  Francis  was  clearly  a  materialist, 
and  unsatisfied  on  the  external  evidence  of  Eevelation. 
A  second  article  of  thirteen  pages  forms  an  abstract  of 
Locke  on  interest  of  money  and  on  coin.  The  third 
article  consists  of  '  Heads  of  Mr.  Yorke's  Treatise  on  the 
law  of  Forfeiture  and  Treason.'  Seventeen  pages  comprise 

VOL.  I.  E 


50  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17GO 

an  abstract  of  'the  principal  arguments  advanced  by 
Molineux  in  the  case  of  Ireland  being  bound  by  Acts  of 
Parliament  in  England.'  The  last  sentence  is  as  follows  : 
'  When  we  see  this  noble  Gothic  Constitution  surviving 
but  in  three  kingdoms,  shall  an  English  Parliament  destroy 
it  in  one  of  them  ?  Should  they  not  for  their  own  sakes 
extend  rather  than  contract  the  barriers  of  liberty  ?  Let 
them  consider  how  nearly  the  temper  of  Tyrant  is  allied 
to  that  of  Slave,  and  whether  the  spirit  of  invading  the 
liberties  of  others  be  the  fittest  for  defending  our  own.' 

Another  paper  is  a  translation  of  the  52nd  book  of  Dion 
Cassius,  containing  the  famous  argument  of  Maecenas  and 
Agrippa  to  Augustus  against  the  abdication  of  imperial 
power.  The  last  pages  are  a  careful  and  excellent  transla- 
tion of  the  first  of  the  Annals  of  Tacitus,  Francis's  most 
favourite  Latin  writer.  This  particular  manuscript  volume 
is  the  more  remarkable  from  a  note  in  the  front  fly  leaf, 
dated  1769,  in  which  he  says,  '  N.B.  I  was  only  three- 
and-twenty  when  I  read  all  these  books  and  made  these 
abstracts.' 

Besides  the  above  proof  of  his  resolution  to  educate 
himself  thoroughly,  various  other  early  volumes  of  his 
manuscripts  and  notes  contain  extracts  and  private  obser- 
vations on  political  economy  (such  as  the  science  was  at 
that  period)  and  on  the  examples  in  history  illustrating 
the  principles  of  political  science.  He  abridged  Gee's 
1  Treatise  on  Trade  and  Commerce,'  a  work  once  of  some 
reputation,  and  he  noted  and  extracted  the  volumes  of 
Davenant ;  and  he  had  possessed  himself  of  and  read  all  the 
standard  works  on  the  laws  of  nations  and  public  treaties, 
copying  many  of  the  latter  not  in  print,  especially  when 
4  secret.'  He  kept  manuscript  tables  and  notes  of  the 
public  revenues  and  taxation  systems  of  most  European 
countries,  and  a  mass  of  home  and  colonial  accounts  of 


1760]         STUDIES  AFTER  RETURN  FROM  LISBON.  51 

exports  and  imports.  The  collection  of  secret  memoirs  of 
eminent  public  men  and  women  of  political  influence 
appears  to  have  been  an  early  passion.  He  further  kept 
manuscript  notes  of  the  qualities  of  all  the  contemporary 
European  statesmen,  ministers,  and  diplomatists ;  and  a 
manuscript  vellum-bound  quarto  volume  contains  the 
names  of  the  entire  civil  servants  of  Great  Britain  and  her 
colonies,  with  a  list  also  of  our  chief  military  and  naval 
commanders.  None  of  these  characters  are  here  extracted, 
as  of  course  the  large  majority  could  not  be  his  own 
original  observation  of  characteristics,  but  were  doubtless 
an  omnium  gatherum  he  had  obtained  from  the  private 
despatches  of  our  own  embassies,  and  from  private  infor- 
mation obtained  from  others.  In  another  manuscript  of 
this  period  he  has  entered  the  accurate  public  Latin  titles 
of  addresses  of  European  sovereigns,  with  the  concluding 
forms  of  subscription  by  the  British  monarch,  noting  also 
precisely  what  '  adieus  '  should  be  in  the  proper  hand- 
writing of  our  sovereign — amusing  variations  and  grades 
of  address  and  valediction  partly  retained  in  our  own 
times.  Not  only  did  Francis  thus  labour  to  qualify  him- 
self for  the  highest  home  or  diplomatic  employments,  but 
to  inform  himself  in  the  knowledge  of  men.  But  his  most 
singular  pursuit  was  his  study  of  the  English  constitution 
and  laws.  Another  manuscript  consists  of  his  '  obser- 
vations upon  the  constitution,  laws,  parliaments,  and 
governments  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  collected 
from  the  best  authors,  in  the  course  of  my  reading,  which 
I  have  set  down  as  they  occurred,  without  any  respect  to 
order  or  method,  with  some  loose  reflections  of  my  own 
upon  public  conduct  and  political  prudence.'  Many  of 
his  notes  show  him  to  have  been  early  familiar  even  with 
the  nomenclature  and  technical  forms  of  our  Equity  and 
Common  law  practice.  In  constitutional  history,  he  had 

i:  2 


52  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1761 

noted  Prynne,  Milton's  prose  works,  Selden,  Spelman, 
Samuel  Johnson,  Filmer  and  Locke,  Sidney,  De  Foe,  and 
many  volumes  on  the  Saxon  and  Norman  institutions, 
and  on  the  earlier  principles  of  Teutonic  government. 
Thus  he  could  truly  say,  half  a  century  afterwards,  '  I 
stand  on  the  constitution  of  my  country,  which  I  have 
studied  as  long,  and  I  believe  as  carefully,  as  anyone 
in  it.'1 

It  has  been  erroneously  stated  and  asserted  by  Lady 
Francis  that  before  the  Lisbon  embassy  Francis  was  pri- 
vate secretary  to  the  Great  Commoner  ;  but  such  was  not 
the  fact.  His  father's  correspondence,  in  1760,  proves 
that  the  son  could  not  have  been  personally  known  to 
Pitt  till  after  the  close  of  that  mission.  But  on  his  return 
home,  on  Mr.  Wood's  introduction,  between  January  7, 
1761,  and  the  advent  of  Lord  Bute's  ministry  in  May  1762 
Francis  acted  as  an  occasional  amanuensis  to  the  great 
minister,  sometimes  writing  to  the  minister's  dictation  de- 
spatches in  Latin  and  French.  His  perfect  knowledge  of 
those  languages  and  his  fine  and  correct  penmanship  were 
his  chief  recommendation.  During  Pitt's  attacks  of  gout 
Francis  occasionally  executed  this  duty  at  the  premier's 
private  house  in  St.  James's  Square.  Lady  Francis  has  pre- 
served an  anecdote  of  the  amanuensis  on  one  occasion  of 
this  employment.  Pitt  was  in  high  debate  on  some  cabinet 
question  with  two  of  his  colleagues,  the  premier  suffering 
acute  pain,  and  Francis  sitting  at  the  end  of  the  table. 
The  colleagues  were  urging  some  project  on  Pitt  which 
the  latter  disapproved.  The  former  requesting  his  reasons, 
Pitt  passionately  replied,  4  My  lords,  the  reasons  why  I 
consider  the  measure  injudicious  are  so  obvious  that  I 
wonder  you  should  be  required  to  be  told  them.  I  will 
venture  to  assert  they  will  occur  to  that  youth '  (pointing  to 

1  '  Monthly  Mirror,'  January  1811. 


1761]  ACTS  AS  AMANUENSIS  TO  PITT.  53 

Francis).  '  Speak,  Francis,  have  you  heard  the  question  ?  ' 
Francis  answered  in  the  affirmative.  '  Then,'  said  Pitt, 
'  tell  their  lordships  why  I  object  to  their  proposals.'  It 
was  an  awful  moment,  but  Francis  assigned  instant 
reasons,  so  much  to  the  minister's  satisfaction,  that  Pitt 
exclaimed,  '  I  told  you  how  it  would  be ;  you  cannot 
answer  a  boy ! '  On  another  occasion,  in  St.  James's 
Square,  a  question  arose  on  the  gender  of  some  Latin 
word.  Pitt  said,  '  Ask  the  St.  Paul's  boy,'  who  at  once 
gave  the  correct  Latin. 

This  brief  and  temporary  relation  to  the  great  minister 
was  the  only  personal  connection  of  Francis  at  any  period 
of  life  with  the  first  Pitt.  Lady  Francis  most  absurdly 
states,  in  some  MS.  reminiscences  of  her  husband,  that  Pitt 
dictated  speeches  he  had  made  in  Parliament  for  Francis's 
copy  and  publication.  But  this  error  is  a  confusion  of  fact. 
At  an  after  period,  when  Pitt  went  to  the  Upper  House, 
Francis  certainly  did  for  his  own  sole  purpose  and  interest 
in  politics  report  from  memory,  and  unknown  by  Lord 
Chatham,  several  of  the  earl's  speeches,  of  which  mention 
will  be  made  hereafter.  Indeed,  in  a  speech  of  Francis 
in  the  House  of  Commons,  on  April  19,  1787,  in 
alluding  to  his  clerkship  in  the  Secretary  of  State's  office, 
Francis  simply  states  that  he  '  was  favoured  and  protected 
there  by  Lord  Chatham.'  This  brief  confidential  employ- 
ment under  Pitt  imbued  Francis  with  fresh  hopes  of  higher 
political  and  pecuniary  office  ;  and  he  felt  disappointed 
that  the  Great  Commoner  left  office  in  1762,  without  ad- 
vancing him  to  some  place  more  worthy  his  merit.  But  he 
never  asserted  any  personal  claim  on  the  minister,  and 
imputed  no  blame  for  the  non-realisation  of  his  natural 
expectation  of  rise.  It  is  unlikely  that  in  such  a  short 
umanuensiship,  Pitt  became  acquainted  with  the  full 
merits  and  intellectual  powers  of  the  young  scribe.  Mr. 


64  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1761 

Wood,  however,  exhorted  Francis  to  be  patient,  and  to 
trust  in  his  constant  good  services. 

In  the  middle  of  1761,  Francis  fell  in  love  with  his  first 
wife  ;  which  ended  in  a  marriage  without  the  consent 
of,  and  opposed  by,  his  own  father,  and  at  first  by  the 
lady's  father.  Miss  Elizabeth  Mackrabie  was  the  object  of 
his  passion,  and  permanent  affections.  Her  parents  lived 
at  Fulham.  Her  father  is  believed  to  have  been  in  a 
city  business,  and  to  have  afterwards  retired  on  very 
small  means.  He  had  one  son  and  two  other  daughters, 
Elizabeth  being  the  eldest  and  somewhat  older  than  her 
lover.  It  has  been  said  in  a  scandalous  publication  that 
Francis  married  '  a  singer, '  and  that  Miss  Mackrabie 
had  an  equivocal  relation  to  Mr.  Oalcraft.  The  latter 
assertion  is  a  gross  calumny,  nor  were  the  Mackrabies,  as 
alleged,  relatives  of  Calcraft.  Miss  Mackrabie  was  a  well 
educated  and  fairly  accomplished,  attractive  girl,  always 
resident  with  her  own  family — an  accomplished  musician 
and  vocalist,  and  who  in  aid  of  the  means  of  her  family 
may  have  sung  at  private  concerts.  As  she  was  without 
fortune,  Dr.  Francis  was  of  course  sorely  opposed  to  the 
union.  The  attachment  between  the  young  people  had 
subsisted  some  time,  Francis  frequently  meeting  Miss 
Mackrabie  at  Mrs.  Chandler's  and  Mr.  Chitty's,  opulent 
friends  of  the  Francis  and  Mackrabie  families.  One  of 
his  father's  letters  to  him  at  Lisbon  mentions  the  young 
lady's  Syren  song  at  a  Hampstead  party ;  and  after  Philip's 
return  from  Portugal  he  made  her  presents  of  flowers.  An 
extant  correspondence  on  his  offer  and  ultimate  accep- 
tance, leaves  no  doubt  that  it  was  no  sudden  engagement. 
It  had  been  so  far  put  an  end  to  in  the  spring  of  that 
year  by  the  fathers  of  both  as  to  remain  over  sine  die. 
A  non-intercourse  parental  decree  prohibited  the  further 
meeting  and  correspondence* of  the  lovers  for  the  period 


1761]  ENGAGEMENT  WITH  MISS  MACRABIE.  65 

of  three  calendar  months,  and  after  the  expiration  of  that 
time  no  engagement  was  to  be  entered  into  until  Philip 
Francis  possessed  an  income  and  means  sufficient  for  the 
maintenance  of  a  wife.  But  '  lovers  break  not  hours,  except 
it  be  to  come  before  their  time.'     Francis  could  not  con- 
trol such  a  passion.     He  reopened,  within  the  prohibited 
time,  epistolary  communication  with  Miss  Mackrabie,  her 
own   mother   and   sister    Harriet   being   sometimes   the 
'  conveyancers '  of  the  contraband  correspondence.     One 
evening  Francis,  at  their  house  at  Fulham,  was  nearly 
discovered  by  Mr.  Mackrabie  in  a  stolen  interview  with  the 
daughter.     His  own  love-letters  have  not  been  preserved ; 
but  Miss  Cholmondeley,  a  granddaughter  of  Sir  Philip, 
possesses   five   of  Miss   Mackrabie's.      They  are  highly 
honourable  to  the  writer.     On  the  10th  of  July  she  urges 
patience    on   her   suitor,  expressing  deep  pain  lest  she 
should  be  the  cause  of  any  estrangement  between  Philip 
and  his  father.     She  tells  him  that  her  own  father  appears 
to  consider  the  attachment  at  an  end,  as  she  herself  put 
on  an  air  of  *  ease  '  she  ill  felt.     They  had,  it  appears,  a 
meeting  at  Fulham  the  week  before  by  the  connivance  of 
Mrs.  Mackrabie.     But  although  her  mother,  fearing  her 
daughter's  health  and  depth  of  affection  for  Francis,  thus 
encouraged  the  suit,  yet  the  daughter  with  true  feeling 
and  better  sense  urged  her  suitor  not  to  exchange  irre- 
coverable  pledges.     Philip   had,    it   appears,   by  letter, 
pressed  her  to  set  their  fathers  at  defiance  and  to  marry 
at  all  risks.     He  had  entertained  hopes  of  accompanying 
Mr.    Hans    Stanley   to   Paris,  on  his   mission   there  to 
negotiate  peace  in  1761.     Miss  Mackrabie  reminds  him 
of  his  disappointment.     She  plainly  told  him  that  he  had 
not  the  means  of  marriage  ;  that  she  was  herself  without 
fortune ;    that  Dr.  Francis  had  told  her  father  he  was 
opposed  to  Philip  marrying  at  such  an  early  age ;  that 


66  MEMOIRS  OF  SIK  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1761 

even  had  Elizabeth  possessed  10,000/.  he  would  not  have 
given  his  consent  to  their  union.  She  adds,  that  as  Philip 
had  told  her  Mr.  Wood  had  procured  him  two  former 
foreign  appointments,1  and  promised  him  continued  pa- 
tronage, he  ought  to  wait  awhile  and  better  his  fortune. 
She  also  said,  she  gave  this  earnest  advice  as  the  older  of 
the  two.  At  all  events  she  pressed  upon  him  to  wait 
'  till  the  expiration  of  the  three  months,  and  when  you 
are  your  own  master.'  She  even  proposes  that  in  the 
worst  event,  of  early  insufficient  means  of  livelihood,  she 
would  herself  willingly  wait  two  years  ;  and  as  after  that 
period  Philip  told  her  he  should  probably  have  a  rise  in 
his  present  office. 

Francis's  passion  would,  however,  bear  no  restraint,  and 
in  vain  Miss  Mackrabie  gave  him  wiser  advice  than  he 
adopted.  She  was  for  some  weeks  after  this  letter  seriously 
ill.  A  succeeding  letter  from  her,  of  August  22,  apprises 
him  of  her  recovery. 

By  another  of  her  letters  to  her  lover  their  secret 
meetings  appear  to  have  been  again  in  much  risk  of  dis- 
covery by  her  father.  Its  date  is  September  11,  endorsed 
by  Philip  as  received  at  Hampstead  on  the  14th.  One  of 
the  Miss  Chittys  acted  as  the  post-mistress.  Constant  in 
his  love,  he  persistently  continued  his  addresses.  It  can 
be  no  wonder  that  they  were  more  and  more  acceptable 
to  and  favoured  by  a  warm-hearted  girl,  whose  mother, 
brother,  and  sisters,  whether  wisely  or  unwisely,  thus  en- 
couraged or  sanctioned  Francis's  attentions. 

In  June  1761,  his  father  was  presented  with  the 
vicarage  of  Chilham  in  Kent.  A  letter  of  acknowledg- 
ment from  the  Doctor  of  the  26th  tells  his  son  of  his 
possession  of  his  new  vicarage,  and  inviting  Philip  to 

1  This  must  have  been  after  Francis's  visit  to  St.  Malo  with  the  English 
squadron ;  but  the  date  is  not  given  by  Mr.  Parkes. 


1761]  MARRIAGE  WITH  MISS  MACRABIE.  67 

meet  him  at  Margate  for  a  week's  holiday.  He  tells  him 
he  need  send  him  no  other  newspaper  than  the  Gazetteer. 
Another  parental  letter,  of  July  23,  appears  to  be  an 
answer  to  one  from  Philip  which  expressed  his  regret 
that  his  affair  with  Miss  Mackrabie  had  given  his  father 
great  pain.  A  reply  from  the  old  father,  on  July  23, 
tells  the  son,  '  You  never  one  moment  lost  the  affections 
I  owe  you,  yet  my  esteem  is  infinitely  more  in  your 
power  than  in  my  own.'  Dr.  Francis  believed  that 
he  had  prevented  an  engagement  he  not  unreasonably 
objected  to,  and  that  probably  his  son  would  this  time 
escape  from  the  darts  of  Cupid. 

The  quarantine  term  of  three  months  soon  expired,  but 
still  the  courtship  appears  to  have  continued,  if  not  covertly, 
at  least  still  without  the  sanction  of  the  two  fathers.  In 
the  following  spring  (1762)  the  lovers  were  united.  The 
marriage  does  not  appear  to  have  been  clandestine,  but 
whether  or  not  with  the  knowledge  of  Dr.  Francis  or  the 
consent  of  Mr.  Mackrabie  is  unknown.  It  took  place  at 
the  church  of  St.  Martin's-in-the-fields,  Middlesex,  on 
February  27,  1762.  It  was  evidently  a  marriage  op- 
posed to  the  wishes  of  some  of  the  parents.  The  young 
couple  were  both  of  age.  They  were  entitled  to  form 
their  own  plans  in  life  ;  and  there  could  have  been  nothing 
discreditable  in  the  conduct  of  either,  as  directly  after 
the  marriage  they  were  received  by  her  own  family  and 
all  their  mutual  friends.  Dr.  Francis  of  course  was 
grievously  pained  by  a  connection  he  deemed  most  im- 
prudent for  his  only  child,  and  one  likely  to  involve  cost 
to  himself.  He  might  reasonably  have  expected  such  an 
only  and  talented  son  to  have  made  '  a  better  marriage.' 
The  event  apparently  caused  a  temporary  estrangement 
between  the  father  and  son.  Their  correspondence  was 
less  frequent  and  intermittent.  After  the  middle  of  June 


58  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR   PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1762 

1761  the  volume  of  their  early  letters  only  comprises  one 
of  the  son's  of  that  year.  And  a  similar  hiatus  in  their 
epistolary  intercourse  appears  to  have  taken  place  after 
the  marriage  in  the  spring  of  1762. 

An  undated  letter  of  that  year  alludes  to  the  *  unhappy 
terms '  on  which  they  then  lived,  but  which  the  Doctor 
begs  may  not  become  known  to  their  friends. 

But  perhaps  it  was  one  of  the  son's  wisest  steps  in  life. 
Philip  was  a  youth  of  strong  inflammable  passions,  and 
he  might  have  married  far  worse.  His  father's  house 
was  no  good  home  to  him.  The  Doctor  was  constantly  ab- 
sent in  his  country  parish  duties,  and  when  in  London  he 
was  a  general '  diner  out ;'  the  son  all  the  day  long  engaged 
in  his  own  public  duties.  Young  Philip's  wit  and  social 
spirit  and  gay  manners  made  him  a  universal  favourite. 
Many  connections  his  father  had  formed,  of  the  press 
and  the  theatre,  were  not  such  as  would  have  preserved 
the  son  altogether  from  some  '  bad  company.'  Marriage 
not  only  virtuously  fixed  his  affection  for  woman,  but  it 
brought  with  it  a  deeper  sense  of  moral  responsibility. 
The  duties  of  a  husband  and  a  parent  were  added  to  those 
of  a  son. 

Dr.  Francis  long  resented  the  marriage,  and  he  thought 
it  encouraged  and  really  promoted  by  the  Mackrabies.  In- 
deed, though  he  was  soon  so  far  reconciled  to  his  son  as  to 
see  him  and  exchange  letters,  he  retained  a  mortal  aver- 
sion to  his  daughter-in-law's  family.  Nor  was  he  cor- 
dially reunited  to  Philip  till  1766,  their  epistolary  inter- 
course being  intermittent  and  brief.  In  political  opinions 
also  the  father  and  son  at  this  time  differed.  The  Doctor 
was  an  old  party-writer,  long  attached  to  Lord  Holland, 
and  afterwards  for  a  time  to  Lord  Bute.  He  was  always 
seeking,  expecting,  and  being  promised  higher  Church 
preferment  than  he  ever  obtained.  Till  the  later  years 


1762]  LORD  BUTE'S  SECOND  MINISTRY.  69 

of  his  life  he  was  doomed  to  disappointment,  and,  as  he 
thought,  met  with  great  ingratitude.  Though  a  nominal 
Whig,  he  attached  himself  more  to  men  than  measures. 
Party-leaders  rather  than  principles  usually  guided  his 
pen.  His  income  for  a  long  period  of  life  was  precarious, 
and  he  was  always  c  poor  Philip.'  His  son  had  a  mind 
of  more  ardour  and  independence. 

On  the  formation  of  Lord  Bute's  second  ministry,  in 
May  1762,  soon  after  Philip's  marriage,  partial  but  con- 
siderable official  changes  occurred.  Lord  Egrernont  ulti- 
mately, vice  Pitt,  became  the  Secretary  for  the  Northern  de- 
partment, in  which  office  Francis  then  was.  Lord  Holland 
continued  paymaster  of  the  forces.  Young  Francis  must 
have  been  behind  the  scenes  on  the  formation  of  this 
administration,  and  on  the  changes  occurring  in  the  latter 
end  of  the  year.  He  has  preserved  a  long  rough  list  in 
the  handwriting  of  Lord  Holland,  noting  many  deter- 
mined and  some  for  reconsideration ;  and  also  a  much 
longer  list  of  five  folio  pages,  copied  out  in  his  own  hand, 
but  in  various  parts  corrected  by  Lord  Holland.  There- 
fore he  must  have  acted  as  Lord  Holland's  confidential 
amanuensis  in  the  proposed  completion  of  the  new  min- 
istry. In  these  lists  Eigby  is  first  placed  as  vice-treasurer 
of  Ireland,  -vice  Ellis.  The  provisions  for  Dyson  and 
Whateley  appear  to  have  been  of  difficult  determination. 
A  receivership-general  is  entered  as  '  a  good  employment 
for  Vernon.'  A  collectorship  is  to  be  filled  up,  'not  to 
lose  a  borough.'  Mr.  Bagot  is  to  be  provided  for,  '  and, 
if  he  presses,  Admiralty  or  Trade.'  Lord  Orwell,  the 
noble  lord  notes,  '  perhaps  may  (as  I  should)  prefer  the 
Green  Cloth.'  In  regard  to  the  Navy  and  Victualling  de- 
partments, the  noble  lord  writes,  '  I  cannot  pick  out 
anything  in  the  Navy  or  Victualling  department :  Mr. 
Grenvilte  must  do  that,  but  perhaps  Sir  Charles  Mordant 


60  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP   FRANCIS.  [1762 

may  find  out  for  his  son  something  desirable  among  the 
following  removals.'  Then  follow  removals  to  be  forced, 
and  some  vacancies  of  offices  the  incumbents  might  feel 
disposed  voluntarily  to  vacate.  Some  partisans  out  of 
office  are  set  down  for  certain  secondary  offices,  or  to 
have  '  equivalents.'  The  noble  lord  enters,  specially,  that 
'  Sir  Samuel  Fludyer  has  my  promise '  for  something ; 
and  that  '  Mr.  Stephenson  has  hopes  of  some  share  in 
contracts  or  remittances  that  remain  after  peace.'  These 
skeleton  lists  of  the  new  dramatis  persona?  and  ministerial 
programme  are  not  always  intelligible  now,  however  they 
would  have  been  to  Bubb  Doddington,  and  others  of 
the  age.  Thus  Francis  by  this  time  must  have  informed 
himself  of  all  the  arcana  of  the  statecraft  by  which  his 
country  was  then  governed.  He  received  no  rise  himself. 
But  he  states  that  Lord  Egremont  had  promised  him 
preferment  if  he  would  continue  in  the  Secretary  of  State's 
office.  One  of  the  counterbalancing  disadvantages  of  an 
experienced  superior  public  servant  is  that  his  capacity 
and  official  aptitude  too  often  make  his  superiors  unwil- 
ling to  lose  him,  as  a  valued  officer,  not  easily  replaced. 

But  Francis  was  not  long  doomed  to  be  stationary. 
The  new  ministry  was  formed,  if  possible,  to  avoid  Pitt's 
pressure  of  a  war  with  Spain,  which  was  not  avoided ; 
and  to  effect  a  general  peace  with  the  continental  powers. 
The  latter  was  eventually  and  soon  accomplished  in  the 
treaty  ably  negotiated  by  the  Duke  of  Bedford.  Francis, 
we  have  seen,  hoped  to  have  been  the  secretary  to  the 
previous  Stanley  embassy,  but  was  disappointed.  He 
was,  nevertheless,  in  Lord  Egremont's  office,  acquainted 
with  all  the  private  details  of  the  negotiations,  and  was  the 
copyist  of  part  of  the  confidential  correspondence  between 
Lord  Egremont  and  the  Duke  of  Bedford.  In  a  quarto 
volume  he  has  preserved  official  copies  of  the  pre- 


1762]  ATTACKS  ON  LORD  BUTE.  61 

liminaries  of  the  treaty  itself  and  of  the  secret  articles. 
He  naturally  attached  himself  to  the  policy  of  the  '  Great 
Commoner,'  and  thought  we  ought  to  and  could  have 
dictated  better  terms  of  peace  instead  of  apparently  suing 
for  an  indifferent  treaty.  These  views  apparently  caused 
him  to  dislike  the  Duke  of  Bedford  as  a  minister,  and  his 
dislikes  were  generally  much  akin  to  aversions. 

A  peace,  as  well  as  a  war,  often  breaks  up  or  changes 
a  ministry.  The  treaty,  as  a  matter  of  course,  provided 
a  powerful  opposition  with  ample  stores  of  party  warfare 
against  public  men,  the  ministry  and  the  court.  Lord 
Bute,  as  the  old  '  favourite  '  of  George  III.  and  the  head 
of  the  administration,  was  the  minister  most  unpopular. 
Accordingly,  an  unceasing  and  virulent  war  was  waged 
against  the  noble  earl  by  all  the  respectable  opposition 
party  pamphleteers,  by  the  correspondents  of  the  anti- 
ministerial  newspapers,  by  the  political  poets,  and  the 
lower  libellers  and  caricaturists.  Wilkes  and  Churchill 
were  ringleaders  of  this  literary  rebellion.  All  men  of 
wit  and  talent  in  every  department  of  the  press  took  sides. 
Johnson,  Hogarth,  every  mind  of  mark,  were  involved  in 
the  whirlpool  of  passion  and  interest.1  Lord  Bute  had 
very  naturally  promoted  his  Scotch  countrymen,  for  the 
first  time,  to  offices  of  rank,  power,  and  emolument.  Be- 
fore the  union  of  the  two  parts  of  our  little  island,  few 
men  from  across  the  Tweed  had  tasted  the  sweets  of 
British  official  power.  A  natural  prejudice  against  Scot- 
land and  Scotchmen  illiberally  prevailed  in  England. 
The  noble  earl  broke  the  spell  of  exclusiveness,  and 
is  at  least  entitled  to  the  everlasting  gratitude  of  his 

1  '  Smollet,  Mallett,  Francis  (Dr.),  Holme,  Murphy,  Mauduit,  and  many 
others,  were  the  instruments  employed  upon  this  occasion.  It  has  been  said 
that  the  sum  paid  to  these  and  other  hired  writers  during  the  first  three 
years  of  the  reign  of  George  III.  exceeded  30,0001.'— Anecdotes  of  Chatham, 
vol.  i.  p.  291,  ed.  1792. 


62  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS-  [1762 

Northern  countrymen.  He  enlarged  the  circle  of  eligi- 
bility to  places  of  honour  and  profit  in  the  common 
government  of  the  two  sections  of  the  British  people,  and 
much  to  their  common  advantage.  But  Lord  Bute  was 
the  reputed  lover  of  the  widowed  mother  of  the  sovereign. 
He  had  been  the  royal  tutor,  and  he  was  the  modern 
Mordecai  sitting  at  the  king's  gate.  Lord  Bute  had,  it  was 
believed,  turned  out  the  Great  Commoner.  In  the  eyes 
of  the  people  he  was  a  minion  and  a  Scot.  Perhaps  no 
public  minister  had  ever  been  so  fiercely  or  continuously 
denounced  by  the  press.  Every  real  or  imaginary  griev- 
ance was  laid  at  his  door.  His  person  even  was  not  safe, 
and  the  libels  against  him  individually  were  beyond  all 
precedent  virulent  and  wounding.  The  noble  premier 
yielded  to  the  storm.  He  suddenly  resigned  office  in 
April  (17  03).  Various  reasons  have  been  assigned  for 
his  retirement,  not  necessary  to  be  here  discussed.  It 
may  perhaps  have  been  principally  caused  by  Wilkes's 
establishment  of  the  '  North  Briton,'  a  weekly  political 
periodical,  commenced  June  5,  1762,  avowedly  to  abuse 
and  run  down  the  minister.  No  public  man  could  success- 
fully have  long  contended  against  the  systematic  and 
bitter  libels  of  that  celebrated  paper,  aided  also  by  the  ma- 
jority of  the  journalists.  Moreover,  Lord  Bute  must  have 
known,  as  the  head  of  the  government,  of  the  ministerial 
design  of  a  crusade  against  the  growing  freedom  of  the 
press.  Although  he  had  sent  in  his  resignation  before 
the  seizure  of  the  famous  No.  45  of  the  '  North  Briton,'  he 
must  have  known  and  approved  of  the  coming  seizure  and 
intended  unconstitutional  proceedings  of  the  government 
against  the  proprietors,  printers,  and  distributers  of  the 
'  libels.'  Lord  Bute  may  have  lacked  resolution  to  share 
the  responsibility  of  the  policy,  or  he  may  have  thought 
that  his  own  retirement  might  tend  to  the  better  success  of 


1762]  SEIZURE  OF  WILKES.  03 

the  meditated  coup  d'etat.  At  all  events,  Saturday,  April 
30,  1763,  was  a  memorable  day  in  the  history  of  the 
British  press.  Early  in  the  forenoon  of  that  day,  three 
of  his  Majesty's  messengers,  by  virtue  of  a  warrant  signed 
by  Lords  Egremont  and  Halifax,  seized  the  person  of 
Wilkes  (then  a  member  of  Parliament),  held  him  in 
custody,  and  took  forcible  possession  of  his  house.  Mr. 
Wood,  the  Deputy-secretary  of  State,  had  instructions  to 
justify  the  acts  of  the  government  and  to  support  them. 
From  this  moment  commenced  a  crusade  against  our 
public  press  which  lasted  for  several  years,  and  of  which 
memorable  contest  John  Wilkes  was  the  popular  hero 
— certainly  in  his  own  person,  whatever  his  personal  vices 
or  political  insincerity,  a  bold,  able,  and  zealous  advocate 
of  public  rights.  It  is  unnecessary  here  to  detail  all  the 
legal  proceedings  on  the  Habeas  Corpus  in  our  courts  of 
law,  or  which  raised  and  decided  the  great  constitutional 
question  on  the  illegality  of  these  unwarrantable  seizures  of 
persons  and  papers.  It  may,  however,  be  noticed  as  singular, 
that  young  Francis  should  happen  to  have  been  a  clerk 
in  Lord  Egremont's  office,  and  the  protege  of  Mr.  Under- 
secretary Wood,  principal  actors  in  the  great  struggle  of 
arbitrary  power  with  the  press.  The  false  position  of  the 
government  was  at  once  apparent  to  his  liberal  and  well 
educated  mind.  Although  he  was  no  Wilkite,  his  individual 
political  opinions  were  most  adverse  to  Lord  Bute  and 
the  policy  of  that  nobleman's  ministry.  His  private  cor- 
respondence also  shows  his  participation  in  the  popular 
prejudice  against  the  Scotch.  But  he  was  in  a  subordinate 
office  under  the  leading  public  men,  whose  policy  his 
common  sense  and  knowledge  of  the  British  constitution 
knew  to  be  as  dangerous  and  prospectively  abortive  as  it 
was  utterly  unjustifiable.  He  had,  however,  at  this  time 
no  position  to  take  part  in  the  great  question  of  the  times, 


64  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1763 

nor  the  temptation  to  try  his  pen.  Further,  a  young 
married  man,  he  was  seeking  better  preferment,  and  Mr. 
Wood  had  been,  and  continued  to  be,  his  most  valued  and 
indeed  his  sole  patron.  Lord  Holland  practically  retired 
from  the  ministry  with  Lord  Bute,  though  he  retained  for 
awhile  the  office  of  paymaster.  Mr.  Calcraft  also,  in  the 
following  December,  was  removed  from  his  office  of  De- 
puty-Commissary General  of  Musters.  He  and  his  former 
patron  and  friend,  Lord  Holland,  irreconcilably  quarrelled. 
Calcraft  from  this  period  to  his  death  attached  himself 
personally  and  politically  to  Pitt  and  Lord  Temple. 
Thus  was  the  earlier  political  connection  of  Dr.  Francis 
and  his  son  br'oken  up  and  severed  by  party  and  per- 
sonal disunion.  We  are  now  about  to  witness  the  com- 
mencement of  the  period  when  young  Francis  himself 
became  a  busy,  though  subordinate,  actor  in  the  political 
dramas  of  these  times  of  changed  ministries  and  party 
cabals. 

Philip  Francis  at  this  period,  in  common  with  the  mass 
of  the  public,  idolised  the  '  Great  Commoner  '  Pitt,  and 
his  disappointment  on  the  retirement  of  that  great  minister 
was  poignant ;  though  not  shared  by  his  father.  The  son's 
early  relations  to  Pitt  must  have  been  of  no  long  duration, 
and  have  terminated  on  May  29,  1762,  when  Lord  Bute 
became  prime  minister.  George  Grenville  had  previously 
severed  from  his  family  and  early  political  colleagues,  and 
in  the  spring  of  1763  had  new  formed  the  administration  in 
conjunction  with  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  on  the  retirement 
of  Lord  Bute.  Charles  Townsend  had  temporarily  re- 
placed Lord  Barrington  as  Secretary  at  War.  It  is  gene- 
rally erroneously  stated  that  Mr.  Welbore  Ellis  did  not 
succeed  Townsend  at  that  office  till  May  1763.  But 
the  War  Office  letter  books  contain  no  letter  signed  by 
Townsend  of  later  date  than  November  26,  1762.  Philip 


1763]  FIRST  CLERK  IN  THE  WAE  OFFICE.  65 

Francis  (by  the  good  offices  of  his  old  friend  Mr.  Wood) 
was  appointed  by  Mr.  Ellis  first  clerk  of  that  department 
probably  a  month  later.  No  exact  record  of  such  an  ap- 
pointment is  traceable  in  the  War  Office  or  Treasury 
records  ;  but  the  copy  book  of  the  private  letters  of  the 
former  office  contains  the  following  communication  to  the 
publisher  of  the  '  Gazette  : ' 

Sir, — I  am  directed  by  the  Secretary  at  War  to  desire  you  will 
insert  the  following  letter  in  the  Gazette  this  evening. 
I  am,  sir,  your  most  humble  servant, 

PHILIP  FKANCIS. 

The  paragraph  for  the  '  Gazette '  enclosed  is,  '  The 
Eight  Honourable  Welbore  Ellis,  his  Majesty's  Secretary 
at  War,  has  appointed  Christopher  D'Oyly,  Esq.  to  be  his 
Deputy.' l  From  this  fact  it  appears  that  Francis  and 
D'Oyly,  afterwards  through  great  part  of  life  warm  friends, 
entered  the  War  Office  at  the  same  time. 

In  relation  to  the  state  of  parties,  and  in  preface  to  the 
next  chapter  in  the  life  of  Francis,  it  need  only  be  stated 
that  the  public  press  was  at  this  time  the  arena  of  the 
most  violent  conflict  between  the  various  sections  of  poli- 
tical party.  The  resignation  of  Pitt  had  inflamed  the 
public  mind.  On  the  day  he  quitted  office,  May  29, 1762, 
the  first  number  of  the  '  Briton  '  periodical,  a  paper  con- 
ducted by  Smollett,  was  issued  to  abuse  Pitt,  and  in  praise 
of  Bute  and  his  new  ministry.  It  was  immediately  after- 
wards that  the  '  North  Briton,'  conducted  by  Wilkes  and 
Churchill,  was  established  in  defence  of  the  opposition. 
In  the  following  year  the  government  prosecution  and 
unconstitutional  persecution  of  Wilkes  was  commenced ; 
which  ended  eventually  in  the  establishment  of  a  free 

1  War  Office  Papers.  Of  D'Oyly 's  antecedents  little  seems  to  be  known. 
In  a  volume  of  Characters  (1770,  anonymous)  he  is  said  to  have  been  a 
charity-school  boy  at  Northampton. 

VOL.  I.  F 


66  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1763 

press,  and  in  the  publicity  of  the  debates  in  Parliament. 
This  memorable  contest  called  forth  the  singular  intel- 
lectual powers  and  bold  mind  of  young  Francis,  whose 
early  labours  in  the  cause  of  true  liberty,  hitherto  un- 
known and  unacknowledged,  will  constitute  the  revelation 
of  the  following  chapters  of  this  biography. 

The  year  1763  opened  with  the  birth  of  his  first  child, 
Sarah,  born  May  29.  This  daughter  being  baptised  at 
St.  Anne's  church,  Soho,  on  the  following  day,  probably 
lixes  Francis's  first  marriage  residence  in  Nassau  Street, 
where  Dr.  Francis  had  previously  lived.  Thus  Francis 
improved  his  sources  of  happiness  as  a  husband  and  a 
parent.  The  pecuniary  value  of  his  new  War  Office  ap- 
pointment is  unascertainable.  The  salary  was  no  doubt 
trifling,  but  the  secretary,  the  deputy-secretary  and  chief 
clerk,  had  fees  and  perquisites — considerable  in  time  of 
war. 

The  War  Office  adjoined  the  Treasury,  and  at  that 
period  the  department  included  the  chief  military  affairs 
of  the  kingdom  and  the  colonies.  The  office  of  the  com- 
mander-in-chief  was  then  a  secondary,  and  in  connection 
with  his  own.  Francis  and  D'Oyly  immediately  formed 
an  intimate  friendship.  The  latter,  though  his  superior 
officer,  was  not  gifted  with  powers  of  composition,  and  was 
a  bad  '  penman.'  D'Oyly  willingly  committed  to  Francis 
the  almost  exclusive  drafting  of  the  official  correspondence. 
The  great  majority  of  the  drafts  of  letters  in  answer  to 
those  received,  are  still  extant  in  the  handwriting  of 
Francis,  rarely  altered  by  the  Secretary  at  War,  and 
never  by  Deputy  D'Oyly.  The  two  latter  '  received ' 
on  public  days,  when  officers,  contractors,  and  others 
presented  themselves  at  the  office.  But  the  'working 
man '  was  during  the  whole  period  the  first  clerk  Philip 
Francis. 


1763]  FIRST  CLERK  IN  THE  WAR  OFFICE.  67 

Francis  had  now  completed  the  first  of  the  three  ages 
Plutarch  assigns  to  a  statesman,  viz.  that  of  learning  the 
principles  of  government.  His  early  initiation  in  diplo- 
macy, war,  and  military  and  naval  real  life,  his  acquire- 
ment of  both  the  dead  and  the  living  tongues,  and  his  deep 
study  of  ancient  and  modern  history  and  jurisprudence 
and  of  the  constitution  of  his  own  country,  far  superior 
to  the  education  of  the  second  Pitt,  of  Charles  Fox,  and 
his  other  contemporaries,  gave  him  obvious  comparative 
advantages.  The  product  of  a  mind  so  richly  cultivated, 
and  of  such  untiring  habits  of  industry,  will  now  become 
manifest  in  their  remarkable  action  on  his  times.  His 
ardent  mind  easily  found  a  vent  in  the  public  press  of 
London.  Lady  Francis  states  that  she  once  asked  him 
when  he  first  began  to  write  in  the  journals  ;  his  answer 
was,  '  I  scarcely  remember  when  I  did  not  write.' 


F  2 


68  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1763 


CHAPTER  III. 

FRANCIS   AND    THE    PRESS. 
[yEi.  23-24.]  ' 

Francis's  early  -writings  for  the  newspaper  press — Becomes  a  corre- 
spondent (anonymous)  of  the  *  Public  Advertiser,'  17G4 — Embraces 
the  cause  of  Wilkes — The  '  Candor  '  pamphlets — Domestic  affairs — 
f  Enquiry  into  the  Doctrine  of  Libels,'  Rex  v.  Almon. 

THE  first  ascertained  appearance  of  Francis  in  print  was 
on  the  occasion  of  an  0.  P.  contest  between  the  play-going 
public  and  the  proprietors  of  Drury  Lane  and  Covent 
Garden  theatres  owing  to  the  temporary  suspension  of  half 
prices.  He  has  preserved  among  his  papers  a  printed  hand- 
bill, dated  January  25, 1763,  addressed  to  the  frequenters 
of  the  theatres.  It  exhorts  the  public  to  a  stout  resistance 
of  the  '  innovation,'  and  concludes  that  *  one  way  only  is 
left  to  us  to  obtain  redress,  which  is  to  assemble  at  the 
play-houses,  and  demand,  with  decency  and  temper,  an  ex- 
planation on  this  grievance,  which  I  am  certain  cannot  be 
supported,  and  owes  its  establishment  to  an  opinion  that 
every  imposition,  not  openly  opposed,  acquires  the  sanction 
of  prescription.'  This  manifesto  is  signed  'An  Enemy  to 
Imposition.'  A  postscript  states  that '  The  reason  of  ad- 
dressing the  town  in  this  manner  is  that  all  communication 
with  the  public  by  the  channel  of  the  newspapers  is  cut  off 
through  the  influence  of  one  of  the  theatrical  managers, 
who  has  found  means  to  lay  that  restraint  upon  the  liberty 
of  the  press,  which  no  minister  of  state  has  hitherto  been 
able  to  effect  in  this  country.'  Garrick  was  the  offending 


1763]  BEGINS 'TO  WRITE  FOR  THE  PRESS.  69 

proprietor  thus  personally  branded.  Garrick  was  a  share- 
holder in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  (then  conducted  by 
Henry  Sampson  Woodfall),  and  was  accustomed  to 
'charm'  the  press,  and  engage  it  in  the  interest  of  the 
theatre  proprietors.  *  A  month  after  this  contest,  a  fearful 
riot  occurred  at  the  Covent  Garden  house  in  consequence 
of  '  full  prices  '  being  again  exacted  on  the  performance 
of .'  Artaxerxes,'  an  opera  got  up  with  unusual  cost ;  and 
after  Drury  Lane  had  returned  to  the  old  scale.  In  the 
outbreak,  on  February  24,  the  door-keepers  of  the  Covent 
Garden  theatre  were  driven  from  their  posts,  the  pit 
seats  torn  up,  and  the  performances  put  an  end  to  by  the 
tumult.  An  intimate  friend  of  Francis,  Thaddeus  Fitz- 
patrick,  an  officer  of  the  Custom  house,  was  a  prin- 
cipal ringleader  of  this  last  tumultuous  revel,  and  narrowly 
escaped  getting  '  into  trouble.'  A  newspaper  controversy 
again  commenced ;  and,  some  of  the  daily  journals  dis- 
covering that  the  best  side  for  their  interests  was  that  of 
the  public,  Francis  took  part  as  the  champion  of  the 
popular  party.  At  the  end  of  the  folio  volume  containing 
his  early  manuscript  abstracts  of  books,  he  has  pasted  the 
printed  slip  of  a  letter,  a  column  in  length,  addressed  to 
the  editor  of  the  '  Public  Ledger,'  dated  March  2,  and  in 
the  margin  of  the  book  leaf  he  states  that  the  letter 
(signed  One  of  the  People}  was  '  written  by  me  at  the 
Shakespeare  Tavern  in  1763,  to  help  my  friend  Thady 
Fitzpatrick  out  of  a  scrape. — P.  F.'  This  letter,  in  answer 
to  the  manager  Beard's  case,  is  sensible  and  temperate. 
Francis  admitted  that  'nothing  certainly  can  be  less 
justifiable  than  the  violence  and  riot  which  ensued.  Such 
proceedings  are  equally  contrary  to  the  laws  of  this 
country,  and  to  all  gopd  sense  and  moderation  ; '  but  he 
charges  the  manager  with  having  aggravated  and  pro- 
longed the  riot  by  refusing  to  return  the  money  of  all 


70  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1763 

those  of  the  audience  desirous  of  retiring  and  not  partici- 
pating in  the  outrages  committed.  A  spirit  of  satire 
pervades  the  entire  letter.  He  ridicules  Mr.  Beard's  appre- 
hension that  the  disturbance  was  only  the  prelude  to  future 
violence,  and  that  too  easy  an  acquiescence  in  the  public 
demands  might  possibly  prove  rather  encouragement  than 
prevention.  Francis  contending  that  the  manager's  fears 
'  evidently  contradict  both  reason  .and  experience.'  The 
most  curious  sentence  in  the  letter  is  its  moral — a  convic- 
tion Francis  retained  throughout  after  life,  viz.  '  I  must 
beg  leave  to  inform  Mr.  Beard  that  the  public  are  indeed 
often  imposed  upon  by  individuals,  but  are  never  the 
aggressors ;  and  that  if  ever  they  take  the  alarm,  it  is  only 
upon  occasions  where  their  privileges  are  invaded,  or 
their  liberties  are  attacked.' 

This  letter  is  not  quoted  for  its  intrinsic  value  and 
talent,  but  as  proof  of  his  earliest  communication  with 
the  press,  and  the  adoption  of  his  first  known  anonymous 
signature.  A  single  correction  also  in  the  slip,  by  the  pen 
and  ink  insertion  of  a  comma  omitted  by  the  compositor, 
thus  early  shows  his  minute  attention  to  punctuation. 

It  is  almost  needless  to  state  that '  Artaxerxes-'  was  re- 
sumed on  the  old  prices,  the  public  succeeding  in  a  just 
cause. 

In  the  '  Public  Ledger  '  he  may  in  this  or  the  following 
year  have  written  other  letters  or  articles,  but  unfortu- 
nately no  file  of  that  paper  exists  in  the  Museum  or  any 
known  public  or  private  library.  The  Burney  Collection 
contains  some  numbers  of  the  year  1765,  in  which  year  will 
be  hereafter  shown  other  probable  communications  from 
the  pen  of  Francis.  In  1764  he  appears  to  have  become 
one  of  the  correspondents  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser.' 

The  '  Public  Ledger,'  so  far  as  can  be  ascertained,  had 
been  heretofore  the  receiver  of  the  first  of  Francis's  '  mis- 


1763]   CORRESPONDENT   OF  THE   'PUBLIC  ADVERTISER.'   71 

cellaneous  letters.'  This  morning  daily  paper,  as  numbered, 
must  have  been  first  established  about  the  year  1760. 
Unfortunately  no  perfect  files  of  its  first  four  years'  issue 
are  to  be  found  in  our  public  libraries,  the  British  Museum 
Burney  coUection  only  containing  some  imperfect  numbers 
for  1765.  Otherwise  the  pen  of  Francis,  in  further  com- 
munications to  that  paper  might  not  improbably  be  traced 
during  the  years  1763  and  1764.  Miller  and  Hooper, 
the  booksellers  of  Dr.  Francis,  were  at  that  period  both 
connected  with  the  '  Public  Ledger,'  and  which  may  ex- 
plain the  son's  selection  of  the  journal  for  his  early  lucu- 
brations. But,  chronologically,  Francis  must  now  be 
traced  in  the  columns  of  another  London  journal — the 
'  Public  Advertiser.' 

Henry  Sampson  Woodfall,  a  Pauline,  and  schoolfellow 
of  Philip  Francis,  was  a  shareholder,  and  (in  combination 
with  his  father)  manager,  printer,  and  publisher  of  the 
latter  journal.  Woodfall  entered  the  school  nearly 
eighteen  months  before  Francis,  according  to  the  Mercers' 
Hall  registers.  The  exact  date  of  entry  is  March  22, 1751 ; 
and  a  year  after  Francis's  entry  they  were  for  a  time  class- 
fellows.  Woodfall,  the  elder  of  the  two  boys,  left  school 
some  time  in  1754 — about  two  years  before  Francis 
quitted.  The  last  joint  record  of  them  was  in  1754,  as 
then  the  last  two  boys  in  the  eighth  or  upper  class.  When 
parting  they  little  imagined  what  would  be  their  future 
political  and  literary  relations.  Woodfall's  natural  talents 
were  of  an  average  character,  but  he  became  a  fair  scholar, 
and  was  early  entrusted  with  the  conduct  of  the  '  Public 
Advertiser.'  He  was  a  man  of  integrity  and  common  sense, 
well  qualified  for  his  vocation  in  the  general  editorship 
of  a  journal  of  the  period.  Francis  must  have  known  the 
reliability  of  Woodfall  and  his  moral  courage  and  prudence 
as  an  editor ;  but  for  reasons  which  will  soon  become 


72  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1763 

transparent  he  kept  up  with  his  old  schoolfellow  in  after 
life  only  the  forms  of  acquaintance,  and  occasionally  meet- 
ing together  at  annual  Pauline  dinners. 

The  political  circumstances  of  the  times  which  led  to 
the  first  remarkable  contribution  of  Francis  to  Woodfall's 
paper  must  now  be  stated,  as  introductory  to  Francis's 
hitherto  unknown  authorship  of  some  political  pamphlets 
in  assertion  of  the  right  of  a  free  press  and  the  law  of 
libel,  of  singular  power,  wit,  and  legal  acumen.  His  great 
acquirements  in  constitutional  law  and  history  have  been 
already  traced  in  the  ample  records  of  his  reading  and 
abstracts  of  our  best  English  works. 

The  great  public  event  which  appears  in  1763  and  1764 
to  have  engaged  his  whole  mind,  was  the  illegal  arrest  of 
Wilkes  and  the  seizure  of  Wilkes's  private  papers  under 
the  warrants  signed  consequent  on  the  publication  of 
No.  45  of  the  '  North  Briton.'  English  history  scarcely  re- 
cords any  violation  of  constitutional  rights  which  so  imme- 
diately and  furiously  excited  the  public  mind.  Wilkes 
may  have  been  in  personal  conduct  a  profligate  man — his 
writings  even  for  his  times  were  libellous  and  coarse, 
and  his  political  opinions  of  an  ultra-liberal  caste.  Still 
he  was  a  man  of  letters,  a  clever  writer,  and  one  who  when 
called  to  account  for  personalities  had  the  courage  to  avow 
anonymous  writings,  and  to  accept  duel  challenges  in 
defence  of  his  '  honour.'  From  the  position  of  a  dema- 
gogue, Wilkes  was  now  elevated  by  ministerial  persecu- 
tion to  the  pedestal  of  a  martyr  ;  and  he  skilfully  played 
the  latter  part,  defying  his  ministerial  prosecutors  with 
signal  courage,  temper,  endurance,  and  good  sense.  The 
ministry  '  caught  a  Tartar,'  and  at  leisure  repented  their 
persecution  of  a  popular  leader  who,  had  he  been  left  to 
find  his  own  level,  would  probably  have  been  bought  over 
to  their  side  or  have  early  vanished  from  the  political  stage. 


1763]  CASE   OF  WILKES.  73 

Philip  Francis  took  an  intense  interest  in  this  memor- 
able contest  between  Wilkes  and  despotic  power.  His 
instructed  and  sagacious  mind  saw  the  deep  present  and 
future  public  interests  involved  in  the  issue.  The  daring 
and  flagrant  act  of  the  government  was  a  revival  of  the 
worst  Stuart  and  Star  Chamber  policy.  If  Wilkes's  per- 
son and  private  papers  might  be  seized  with  impunity 
under  the  written  order  and  fiat  of  two  Privy  Councillors, 
and  the  sanctuary  of  a  gentleman's  private  dwelling  might 
legally  be  violated,  every  Englishman  was  subject  to  the 
like  outrage.  It  was  an  impolitic  and  intolerable  act  of 
the  executive,  and  might  have  befallen  Dr.  Francis  or 
Philip  Francis.  But  the  young  office  clerk  could  not 
openly  profess  his  indignation  or  political  sympathy  with 
the  cause  of  Wilkes.  Lord  Egremont  had  been  only 
lately  his  chief  in  office,  and  had  only  lately  promised  him 
preferment  had  he  continued  in  the  Secretary  of  State's 
office.  Mr.  Wood,  the  under  Secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
the  secondary  but  principal  instrument  of  the  seizure  of 
Wilkes,  was  his  early  and  constant  patron,  and  to  whom  he 
was  indebted  for  his  new  position  in  the  War  Office.  Mr. 
Welbore  Ellis,  the  Secretary  of  War,  was  the  member  of 
the  administration  by  whom  the  clerkship  was  nominally 
given  him  ;  his  own  father  was  a  leading  partisan  writer, 
in  the  interest  of  Lord  Bute  and  the  existing  ministry. 
The  clerk  of  the  War  Office  had  therefore  every  conceiv- 
able motive  to  keep  his  opinions  to  himself.  He-  would 
obviously  conceal  any  use  of  his  pen  on  the  side  of 
Wilkes.  Moreover,  it  will  hereafter  be  seen,  from  later 
private  letters  of  Francis,  that  he  shared  the  prevalent 
disrespect  for  Wilkes's  private  character — an  incubus  on 
the  '  Wilkites  ' — desiring  to  separate  the  man  from  the 
momentous  cause  involved  in  the  question  of  general 
warrants.  But  although  thus  justly  discriminating,  and 


74  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

notwithstanding  his  dislike  of  Wilkes's  extreme  Whig 
professions,  Francis  honestly  and  naturally  shared  in  the 
public  indignation  against  the  ministerial  acts.  Francis, 
from  his  knowledge  of  human  character,  had  learnt  that 
bad  men  were  often  at  the  head  of  good  institutions, 
and  that  principles  ought  not  to  be  abandoned  because 
some  professors  were  vicious  characters.  lie  could  dis- 
tinguish between  a  cause  and  those  who  take  a  cause  in 
hand. 

The  press  of  course  forthwith  teemed  with  articles  on 
general  warrants.  The  subject  was  indeed  for  awhile  the 
almost  exclusive  topic  of  party  discussion  and  pamphleteer- 
ing controversy.  Francis,  initiated  in  newspaper  corre- 
spondence, had  read  a  letter  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of 
July  29,  1764,  under  the  anonymous  signature  of  Crito, 
justifying  verdicts  obtained  by  the  government  against 
the  printers  of  the  '  North  Briton '  for  libels  in  No.  45  ; 
and  he  entered  the  lists  in  the  same  journal  against  this 
writer  under  the  anonymous  signature  of  Candor,  in  an 
answer  rapidly  prepared,  as  it  was  published  in  the 
4  Advertiser '  of  August  2.  Candor  was  unknown  to 
Woodfall,  because  the  latter,  on  August  7,  declined  to 
accept  a  second  letter  unless  his  correspondent  complied 
with  the  conditions  stated  in  the  following  notice  to  cor- 
respondents : — 

If  our  correspondent  C.  will  make  himself  known  to  us,  we  shall 
perhaps  be  induced  to  comply  with  his  request ;  but  if  he  is  unwill- 
ing to  step  forth  and  avow  himself  the  author,  or  indemnify  us  for 
any  charge  whenever  we  are  called  upon  by  authority,  the  printer 
does  not  choose  to  run  the  risk  of  an  expensive  prosecution,  and 
perhaps  a  personal  trouble  into  the  bargain.  No  one  certainly  can 
blame  him  for  this  caution,  who  avails  himself  of  the  same  by  being 
concealed.  C.  will  understand  our  meaning  when  we  hint  to  him 
that  enough  has  been  said  already.  We  wish  for  a  continuance  of 
his  correspondence  on  any  future  occasion. 


17G4]  THE  'CANDOR'  LETTERS.  75 

The  reader  will  notice  that  the  initial  C.  for  the  first 
time  here  appears  as  the  nom  de  guerre  of  Woodfall's  new 
correspondent,  and  probably  was  the  alphabetical  letter 
under  which  the  editor  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  for 
years  communicated  with  the  same  writer.  How  it  hap- 
pened that  Woodfall  preserved  Candor's  note  and  enclo- 
sure can  only  be  matter  of  speculation.  It  may  have 
been  from  fear  of  a  prosecution  of  the  publisher  of  this 
first  Candor  letter.  The  Woodfall  MSS.  contain  bonds 
of  indemnity  to  the  proprietors  from  writers  in  the  event 
of  expenses  of  prosecution.1  Candor  must  have  declined 
to  reveal  his  name  ;  and  discontinuing  his  correspondence 
with  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  he  transferred  the  remainder 
of  his  manuscript  to  Almon  the  bookseller  for  pamphlet 
publication ;  who  printed  it  without  delay,  as  it  was 
published  on  September  22  following.  Almon  evidently 
did  not  then,  or  indeed  apparently  at  any  period  of  his 
life,  know  the  name  of  the  writer.  The  author  was  as 
little  or  less  likely  to  have  made  himself  known  to  Almon 
as  to  Woodfall.  His  object  in  non-compliance  with  the 
requirement  of  the  former  was  the  preservation  of  his 
incognito.  Candor  remained  equally  unknown  to  the 
public  men  of  the  day.  This  publication  was  only  the 
first  of  a  series  of  political  pamphlets  on  the  liberty  of 
the  press,  doubtlessly  from  the  same  pen  continued  to  the 
termination  of  the  Junius  Letters,  now  designated  as  the 
'  Candor  Pamphlets.'  The  authorship  has  continued  as 
great  a  mystery  as  that  of  Junius  ;  the  Candor  letters 
being  variously  (on  utterly  insufficient  grounds)  assigned 
to  Lord  Camden,  Pratt  his  relative,  Dunning,  Lord 
Temple,  and  others.  But  all  these  subsequent  Candor 
productions  will  be  hereafter  noticed  in  their  chronological 

1  See  Appendix. 


76  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

and  proper  periods  of  publication.  This  first  Candor 
pamphlet  has  very  great  merit.  The  original  Almon  title 
was  simply,  '  A  letter  to  the  "  Public  Advertiser  ;"  '  with 
the  motto,  '  Honi  soit  qui  mal  y  pense.' 

The  entire  pamphlet  of  fifty-one  octavo  pages  must, 
therefore,  by  the  above  date,  have  been  written  within  a 
month.  No  explanation  can  be  given  of  '  Gray's  Inn  '  as 
the  place  of  its  superscription.  An  inspection  of  the 
names  of  the  members,  students,  and  chamber  renters  of 
that  Inn  affords  no  clue  to  the  author.  No  bencher, 
member,  or  chambers  renter  of  Gray's  Inn  had  any 
known  qualifications  for  the  authorship.  Francis's 
brother-in-law,  Alexander  Mackrabie,  hadabout  this  period 
chambers  in  the  Inn.  But  obviously,  as  Candor  took 
such  pains  to  conceal  his  name,  he  would  never  have 
placed  himself  in  danger  by  any  hint.  Probably  the 
adoption  of  '  Gray's  Inn '  was  casual  only ;  or  perhaps 
fictitious  adoption,  and  to  give  an  air  of  professional 
authorship.  It  is  most  unlikely  that  the  writer  would 
give  any  clue  to  an  identity  so  studiously  and  long  con- 
cealed ;  least  of  all,  that,  if  a  lawyer,  he  would  have  dated 
his  letter  from  his  own  Inn  or  place  of  business.  More- 
over, an  attentive  perusal  of  Candor  must  convince  every 
lawyer  that  the  writer  was  no  practised  or  practical 
lawyer,  however  learned  in  constitutional  lore.  The 
phraseology  is  untechnical ;  the  few  cases  cited  are  not 
quoted  from  original  authorities,  or  as  a  professional  man 
adduces  cases.  An  affectation  of  a  legal  education  without 
pursuit  of  the  law  as  a  profession  pervades  the  pages. 
Old  age  is  pretended,  and  therefore  a  younger  writer  may, 
per  contra,  be  reasonably  suspected.  An  anonymous 
writer  so  carefully  concealing  his  real  character  was  not 
likely  to  confess  the  number  of  his  years. 

But  what  facts  and  evidence  bring  the  authorship  home 


1764]  THE  'CANDOR'  LETTERS.  77 

to  Philip  Francis  ?  They  are  as  follows  :  A  large  collection 
of  political  pamphlets  of  the  period,  acquired  and  bound  by 
him,  contain  every  tract  and  record  of  this  great  constitu- 
tional question  and  of  the  public  life  of  Wilkes.  Many  of 
the  tracts  Francis  has  manuscript  noted.  He  preserved  also 
a  copy  of  the  government  short-hand  writer's  notes  of  the 
arguments  and  speeches  of  counsel  and  judges  in  the 
Court  of  Common  Pleas,  in  May  1763,  which  resulted  in 
the  maintenance  of  Wilkes's  privilege  as  a  member  of 
Parliament,  and  when  he  was  discharged  from  custody. 
This  copy  consists  of  106  MS.  folio  pages.  It  was 
evidently  one  of  the  Treasury  Solicitor's  copies,  because 
in  the  legal  records  of  that  department  other  copies 
exist,  evidently  from  the  same  stationer's  office.  Pro- 
bably Francis  would  readily  obtain  this  copy  through  his 
friend  Mr.  Wood,  or  through  other  official  channels  he  had 
access  to.  He  has  bound  it  also  with  a  MS.  folio  copy  of 
the  celebrated  speech  of  Lord  Mansfield,  on  the  discharge 
of  the  rule  nisi  against  Woodfall  for  a  new  trial  in  the  Junius 
prosecution.  And  his  own  notes  in  several  of  the  printed 
octavo  volumes  show  his  partiality  for  Lord  Camden,  as 
contrasted  with  Lord  Mansfield,  in  these  several  political 
trials.  Francis  had  also  copies  of  almost  every  edition 
of  the  Candor  pamphlets.  Why  should  he  thus  have 
collected  so  many,  most  of  them  varied  in  the  text 
by  some  omissions,  additions,  or  other  alterations? 
Further,  Francis's  library  contained  all  the  historical 
books  from  which  Candor  (at  second-hand  generally) 
cited  his  legal  cases  and  authorities.  The  first  Candor 
publication  satirises  Hume's  history,  and  Warburton's 
Divine  Legation,  both  authors  known  to  Francis,  and  es- 
timated by  him  in  the  sense  which  Candor  states.  Every 
sentiment  of  the  pamphlet  in  question  is  consistent  with 
Francis's  courses  of  study  and  manuscript  notes  on  books. 


78  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

Bacon,  Algernon  Sydney,  and  Lord  Clarendon  are  cited 
— his  favourite  writers.  Candor  particularly  disclaims 
being  a  paid  or  a  party  writer.  He  praises  Mr.  Pitt's 
administrations  for  their  non-use  of  general  warrants  and 
their  abstinence  from  '  odious  crown  prosecutions.'  In 
espousing  the  cause  of  Wilkes,  he  does  not  conceal  his 
personal  dislike  of  the  man.  There  is  a  dash  also  of 
levity  as  regards  remarks  on  priestcraft.  Eulogising  the 
style  of  Hume,  he  describes  it  as  '  riot  inferior  to  that  of 
the  Jesuit  Father  Orleans,'  a  book  of  which  the  translation 
by  Echard  was  in  Francis's  possession,  and  had  been 
studied  by  him.  So  far,  without  anticipating  conclusive 
arguments  from  after  pamphlets  of  Candor  (to  1774  in- 
clusive), Francis  from  the  internal  evidence  was  the 
natural  and  sole  author  of  the  first  of  these  celebrated 
productions.  Its  quaint  style,  wit,  and  irony  were  his  in- 
dividual qualifications ;  and  commentators  have  been 
unable  to  assign  the  authorship  on  any  reasonable  grounds 
to  any  other  individual.  No  proof  whatever  has  been 
given  in  favour  of  Lord  Camden,  his  relative  Mr.  Pratt,  or 
Dunning.  Perhaps  the  only  colourable  suggestion  is  the 
name  of  Lord  Temple.  But  the  two  lords  in  no  instance, 
by  pamphleteering  or  speeches,  gave  proof  of  the  peculiar 
wit,  quaintness,  and  biting  satire  of  Candor.  Nor  do  the 
family  papers  of  either  contain  a  document  or  letter 
rendering  either  even  open  to  suspicion  as  the  writer. 
Mr.  Pratt's  name  was  a  mere  guess. 

Thus  far  the  ascription  of  authorship  depends  on  pro- 
babilities ;  but  accident,  some  years  since,  identified 
Francis  with  Candor.  Mr.  Henry  D.  Woodfall,  who  had 
before  communicated,  as  he  believed,  all  his  grandfather's 
papers  for  aid  of  this  biography,  found  a  bundle  of  his 
grandfather's  papers,  in  which  was  an  undated  penny 
posted  note  from  Candor  to  the  editor  of  the  '  Advertiser,' 


1764]  THE  <  CANDOR'  LETTERS.  .  79 

suggesting  a  reprint  of  the  Candor  letter,  and  enclosing  a 
list  of  errata  and  corrigenda.  The  note  is  written  cross- 
ways  on  half  a  sheet  of  folio  paper,  and  signed  Candor. 
The  errata  are  on  a  full  folio  sheet  of  a  different  paper. 
Both  the  papers  bear  different  water  marks,  both  papers 
so  water-marked  having  been  in  use  at  the  War  Office  in. 
1764.  The  size  of  the  handwriting  of  the  two  documents 
somewhat  varies,  as  also  does  the  ink  ;  probably  being 
penned  at  different  places  or  at  different  times.  The  hand- 
writing is  indifferently  but  palpably  disguised,  particularly 
in  varied  form  of  the  capital  letters.  It  is  unquestion- 
ably that  of  Francis — the  '  St.  Paul's  school  hand '  the 
basis.  Further,  the  numeral  figures,  and  the  arbitrary 
marks  in  the  peculiar  modes  of  erasures,  scoring,  and 
punctuation  (the  latter  evidently  perfected  after  the 
completion  of  the  copy),  all  exactly  tally  with  his  calli- 
graphical  habits  and  manuscripts  of  1764.  The  postage 
stamp  does  not  contain  the  date  of  post  office  receipt  or 
delivery,  nor  the  local  receiving  office  in  London,  where 
the  letter  was  posted.  The  seal  was  wafer,  stamped  by 
an  oval  seal,  apparently  the  head  of  some  Eoman,  now 
not  perfectly  visible. 

The  note  is  a  suggestion  to  Woodfall  to  reprint  his 
Candor  letter,  and  then  follow  a  list  of  errata  and 
corrigenda.  The  former  is  as  follows  : — 

Sir, — Excuse  this  second  trouble.  In  the  additions  which  I  sent 
this  morning  to  Candor's  Letter,  I  recollect  inadvertently  to  have 
thrown  in,  speaking  of  Perjury,  the  words  wilftd  Sf  corrupt  Per- 
jury ;  now  I  beg  the  favour  of  your  not  forgetting  to  strike  out 
wilful  8f,  as  slipping  under  my  pen  by  mistake.  And  if  you  re- 
print the  Letter  with  the  additions  and  alterations  alluded  to,  I  beg 
you  to  transpose  the  addition  last  mentioned  in  the  following  manner 
'  were  words  of  course  like  corrupt  in  an  Indictment  for  Perjury  or 
like  those  in  an  Indictment  for  Murder,  &c.' 

Nothing  but  haste  made  me  do  otherwise  at  first.    I  have  nothing 


80  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

further  to  add,  unless  it  be  that  it  was  Sir  Samuel  Bernardiston, 
and  not  Barnardiston  ;  And  that  you  may  if  you  please  instead  of 
plain  your  humble  servant  conclude  the  Letter  by  saying, 

I  am  Sir,  &c., 

CANDOR. 

^ 

The  *  errata  and  corrigenda '  are  in  the  same  hand- 
writing, as  follows  : — 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

At  the  desire  of  some  of  our  customers  who  complain  of  their  not 
being  able  to  get  a  sight  of  the  following  letter,  by  the  scarcity  of 
our  last  Thursday's  paper,  we  have  reprinted  it. 

1.  at  first  interrupted  the  Council,  and  informed  them,  and  after- 
wards 

2.  or  in  Perjury  that  it  was  corrupt  Perjury. 

3.  His  Lordship's  summing  up  was  long  and  pathetick,  and  com- 
manding, and  seemed  to  express  the  sentiments  of  the  Heart.     It 
would,  I  think,  have  affected  any  unprejudiced  People. 

x  .  for  two  Hours, 

4.  and  altered. 

5.  This  is  a  cause  of  publick  example  and  consequence.     And 
afterwards  in  summing  up  to  the  Jury  the  same  great  man  repeated 
and  enforced  the  same  arguments,  and  added,  among  other  things, 
'  If  then,  Gentlemen,  you  believe  the  Defendant  did  write  and  publish 
these  letters,  that  is  proof  enough  of  the  words  maliciously,  sedi- 
tiously, and  factiously  laid  in  the  Information.     It  is  high  time,  for 
all  mankind,  to  rid  the  nation  of  such  caterpillars,  such  monsters  of 
villainy  as  these  are.     I  hope  I  shall  never  lose  my  heart  nor  spirit 
to  serve  the  Government,  nor  forbear  to  use  my  utmost  diligence  to 
see  that  such  persons  as  these  offenders,  that  entertain  principles  so 
destructive  to  the  government,  be  brought  to  condign  punishment. 
Gentlemen,  The  Question  before  you  is  whether  the  Defendant  be 
guilty  of  writing  these  malitious,  seditious  letters  :  they  tread  very 
near  upon  the  borders  of  High  Treason  itself.     I  am  sure  I  may  ven- 
ture to  call  it  Cozen  German  to  High  Treason.     They  are  Traitors  in 
their  minds,  whatsoever  they  are  in  their  outward  pretenses.' 

6.  and  both  of  them  are  remarkable  for  their   abilities.     But, 
indeed,  there  is  this  striking  difference  in  their  characters,  that  the 
former  was  a  bold,  and  insolent  lawyer,   whereas  no  man  could 
ever  apply  either  of  these  words  to  the  latter,  for  nothing  can  be 
more  conciliating  or  winning  than  the  manners  of  the  present  Chief 
Justice.     His  Lordship  is,  I  presume,  naturally  of  a  different  temper, 


1764]  CANDOR  PAMPHLETS.  81 

has  had  a  very  different  education,  and  possesses  many  refinements 
and  accomplishments  of  art  and  eloquence  that  the  other  wanted, 
and  has  withal  had  the  advantage  of  having  always  practised  in 
Courts  of  Equity,  which  alone  surprizingly  softens  the  rigour  of  the 
Common  Law,  renders  it  more  pliant,  and  accommodates  it  more  to 
the  circumstances  of  the  Time. 

This  first  Almon  edition  contained  nearly  all  the  errata 
corrected,  and  the  alterations  refused  by  Woodfall.  It 
sold  rapidly,  and  was  immediately  noticed  in  most  of  the 
periodical  reviews  as  a  remarkable  pamphlet.  A  second 
edition  was  advertised  in  a  few  weeks.  Almon's  adver- 
tisement of  the  latter  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  of  Oc- 
tober 19,  contained  the  following  foot-note,  evidence  of 
the  author  being  unknown  to  his  publisher  : — 

The  letter  dated  October  17  was  received  yesterday.  Every 
request  is  complied  with,  and  an  answer  is  ready ;  where  shall  it  be 
sent  ? 

The  title  of  this  edition  was  slightly  altered,1  some 
few  passages  in  the  first  edition  being  omitted,  a  little 
new  matter  added,  and  further  errata  corrected, 

Francis  preserved  no  record  of  any  correspondence 
with  his  father  in  this  year.  Not  only  had  the  marriage 
with  Miss  Mackrabie  deeply  offended  the  Doctor,  but  the 
political  opinions  of  the  parent  and  son  were  diametrically 
opposed.  Dr.  Francis  in  1764  was  writing  against  the 
Bedford  and  Grenville  ministry,  in  support  of  Lord 
Bute  and  the  opposition,  satirising  Pitt  as  the  modern 
Cleon,  and  abusing  Wilkes.  An  anonymous  quarto 
pamphlet  of  thirty-eight  pages  (many  passages  of  which 
are  repetitions  of  the  letter  of  a  Brigadier-General  pam- 

1  The  title  substituted  was  '  A  Letter  from  Candor  to  the  "  Public  Adver- 
tiser." Containing  a  Series  of  Constitutional  Remarks  on  some  late  Interest- 
ing Trials.'  Price  Is.  A  third  edition  was  issued  by  Almon  in  1770, 
entitled  '  A  Letter  from  Candor  to  the  "  Public  Advertiser."  Printed  from  a. 
more  legible  copy.'  This  is  its  title  also  in  vol.  i.  of  'Almon's  Collection  of 
Interesting  Tracts/  from  1764  to  1773,  being  the  first  article  in  vol.  i. 

VOL.  I.  G 


82  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

phlet  of  1760)  is  noted  in  the  son's  hand  as  written  by 
his  father,  entitled  '  The  Political  Theatre,'  with  a  MS. 
key  to  the  public  characters  attached.  Thus  the  two 
were  arrayed  on  different  party  sides,  besides  the  causes 
of  family  difference.  The  fact  of  this  temporary  aliena- 
tion is  patent  in  a  letter  from  Philip  Francis  to  his  wife 
in  August,  in  which  the  son  tells  her,  '  My  father's  house- 
keeper calls  sometimes,  but  I  have  never  seen  her,  nor 
the  Doctor  himself.'  The  elder  Francis,  however,  ob- 
tained a  pension  and  good  Church  preferment  from  Lord 
Bute's  inHuence ;  the  younger  using  his  pen  from  disin- 
terested and  exclusively  patriotic  impulses. 

Sometime  early  in  this  year,  or  at  the  close  of  1763, 
Francis  changed  his  residence  to  Duke  Street,  West- 
minster; a  record  in  his  own  hand  of  the  birth  of  his 
second  child,  Elizabeth,  stating  her  to  have  been  there 
born  on  March  2,  1764,  and  the  girl  being  baptised  in 
St.  Margaret's  church.  Mrs.  Francis,  in  ill  health,  accom- 
panied by  her  mother,  went  to  Brighton,  continuing 
there  from  June  to  the  end  of  August.  Francis  there- 
fore, it  is  observable,  had  undisturbed  leisure  at  home 
during  that  period.  His  letters  to  his  wife  during  her 
long  absence  were  frequent  and  most  affectionate. 
Twelve  of  them  have  been  preserved,  but  they  contain  no 
matters  of  interest  as  regards  public  or  literary  topics. 
The  two  children  remained  with  the  father.  Francis 
writes  his  wife,  on  June  30,  '  I  had  little  Betsy  in  my 
arms  this  morning,  which  made  Sarah  so  jealous,  that  she 
roared  with  vexation.  But  I  am  very  good  to  them 
both.'  In  this  letter  occurs  Francis's  first  mention  of  his 
old  schoolfellow  and  friend  Eosenhagen  as  probably 
coming  to  London  the  following  Monday  to  visit  him  for 
a  week.  In  a  note  to  Mrs.  Francis,  July  10,  he  says, 
'The  two  children  and  I  played  together  this  morning 


1764]  DOMESTIC  AFFAIRS.  83 

above  half  an  hour  on  the  carpet ;  it  amuses  rne  vastly 
to  see  how  fond  Sally  is  of  her  sister,  and  what  efforts  she 
makes  to  speak  to  her  ;  Fi-ta-to-tu.'  In  acknowledging 
Mrs.  Francis's  reply,  he  compliments  her  by  observing, 
'  You  really  improve  much  in  your  stile.' 

Tuesday,  August  14,  1764. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — I  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  Friday  last ; 
it  was  one  of  the  most  agreeable  I  have  received  from  you,  for  two 
reasons — because  you  talk  of  your  return,  and  because  you  give  me 
hopes  that  you  will  return  in  health.  The  bed  will  be  sufficiently 
aired  for  your  mother,  as  Rosenhagen  has  been  lying  in  it  for  this 
month  past,  and  will  continue  to  do  so  till  Saturday  next.  We  are 
but  just  returned  from  an  expedition  to  Blackwall,  where  we  have 
been  to  pay  a  visit  to  honest  Gravier  :  the  poor  fellow  is  amazingly 
pulled  down,  and  looks  so  thin  you  could  hardly  know  him,  but 
is  in  good  spirits.  I  have  commissioned  him  to  buy  a  complete  set 
of  table  and  tea  china,  and  I  propose  laying  out  about  201.  in  it.  The 
children  are  perfectly  well. 

The  time  till  Monday  seems  long,  but  it  will  come. 

Yours  ever, 

P.  F. 

The  correspondence  shows  that  Francis  allowed  his 
wife  a  fixed  allowance,  and  that  although  he  counselled 
her  to  be  frugal  in  her  expenditure,  he  several  times 
urged  her  not  to  debar  herself  any  extra  outlay  essential 
for  her  comfort  and  restoration  to  health,  and  that  he 
would  make  good  any  excess  of  her  allowance.  In  one 
of  his  last  notes  he  tells  her  to  take  the  four  inside  places 
of  the  Bath  coach,  though  she  only  required  two.  His 
letters,  in  fact,  prove  his  strong  affection  and  solicitude 
for  her  recovery.  Almost  all  the  letters  are  dated  from 
the  War  Office,  franked  by  D'Oyly. 

His  last  letter,  before  Mrs.  Francis's  return,  was  written 
on  the  night  of  the  16th,  when,  though  not  tipsy,  he  was 
the  worse  for  claret.  Singularly,  his  inebriety  affected 
his  handwriting  in  this  letter,  and  it  is  mentioned  because 
several  years  afterwards  it  will  be  shown  that  one  of  his 

G   2 


84  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

political  letters  in  a  feigned  hand  similarly  varied  from 
the  accident  of  an  over-indulgence  in  wine. 

Thursday,  August  16,  1764. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — Besides  thanking  you  for  your  letter,  I  have 
nothing  to  say  but  that  Bosenhagen  set  out  yesterday  with  Gravier 
for  Dunkirk.  The  latter  was  obliged  to  go  thither  upon  business, 
and  the  parson1  thought  he  could  not  have  a  better  opportunity  of 
seeing  France  than  that  which  offered  yesterday.  The  scheme  was 
proposed  at  five  o'clock  yesterday,  and  at  six  they  were  in  the  post- 
chaise.  This  is  what  you  may  call  a  sudden  resolution.  Words 
cannot  express  my  impatience  to  have  you  in  my  arms.  At  seven 
on  Monday  I  expect  you.  Will  the  machine  bring  you  to  the  door, 
or  where  shall  I  order  James  to  wait  for  you  ?  Remember  to  ask 
for  my  handkerchief  at  the  Cat  Inn  at  East  Grinstead.  To  say  the 
truth,  my  dear  girl,  I  have  been  dining  with  honest  Fitz  &  Co.,  and 
am  not  in  my  perfect  mind ;  but  you  see  that,  even  while  I  forget 
myself,  I  still  remember  you.  It  is  true  I  am  endowed  with  a  most 
capricious  humour,  but  I  am  always  wise  enough  to  know  that  I  am 
possessed  of  the  best  girl  in  the  world,  and  that  I  never  could  be 
happy  without  her.  Adieu.  P.  F. 

It  is  singular  that  a  young  man  of  such  untiring  habits 
of  writing  should  throughout  life  continually  complain  of 
the  labour  of  penmanship.  In  a  letter  of  this  period, 
July  5,  to  Mrs.  Francis,  he  says,  '  If  I  had  any  news  to 
send  you  my  letter  should  be  longer.  You  know  how 
mortally  I  detest  writing ;  nothing  could  possibly  make 
me  so  punctual  but  that  I  believe  it  gives  you  a  pleasure, 
and  I  hope  contributes  to  keep  up  your  spirits.' 

No  marvel  Francis  should  feel  the  mechanical  labour 
of  writing  private  letters,  when,  besides  his  daily  War 
Office  avocations,  he  wrote  so  much  for  the  public  press. 
'  Candor '  was  no  sooner  published  than  he  produced  a 
still  more  able  and  elaborate  essay  on  the  unconstitu- 
tionally of  general  warrants.  A  majority  in  the  Com- 
mons had  justified  the  seizure  outrage  on  Wilkes.  Charles 
Townsend  had  anonymously  published  a  clever,  but  not 

1  Rosenhagen. 


1764]     'ENQUIRY  INTO  THE  DOCTRINE  OF  LIBELS.'  85 

a  full,  defence  of  the  minority  published  by  Almon.  This 
pamphlet  was  forthwith  answered  in  a  ministerial  brochure, 
entitled  '  A  Defence 'of  the  Majority,'  by  Charles  Lloyd,  the 
private  secretary  of  Mr.  George  Grenville,  and  supposed 
to  have  been  '  perused  and  settled '  by  that  minister. 
'  Candor '  also  was  hostilely  criticised  in  the  government 
newspapers.  Francis  in  the  meanwhile  was  adding  to  his 
armoury  and  filling  his  quiver  with  new  and  barbed 
arrows.  Late  in  the  autumn  of  this  year  appeared  his 
most  remarkable  tract  on  the  question,  first  entitled  '  An 
Enquiry  into  the  Doctrine  of  Libels,  Warrants,  and  Seizures 
of  Papers.'  It  was  in  fact  an  elaborate  treatise  on  these 
subjects  ;  a  volume  rather  than  a  pamphlet.1  This  justly 
celebrated  vindication  of  a  free  press  and  the  constitutional 
liberties  of  the  British  people  was  of  equally  mysterious 
authorship,  and  has  continued  so  to  the  present  day.  As 
in  the  case  of '  Candor,'  it  has  been  variously  ascribed  to 
Lord  Camden,  Dunning,  Lord  Temple,  and  others,  on  no 
better  grounds.  Almon  certainly  was  ignorant  even 
of  the  authorship.  Had  he  received  the  manuscript 
from  Lord  Temple,  he  would  probably  have  intrusted 
the  secret  to  his  lordship,  their  relations  being  most 
confidential.  This  last  publication  had  a  still  greater 
success  than  the  letter  of  Candor.  Indeed  its  argu- 
ments were  considered  conclusive,  and  it  virtually 
closed  the  political  controversy.  No  tolerable  critic  of 
composition,  unity  of  style,  '  manner,'  and  argument 
can  reasonably  doubt  the  common  origin  of  the  two 
productions  if  carefully  examined.  The  same  vein  of  wit, 
irony,  satire,  and  quaintness,  and  affected  carelessness  of 

1  The  first  exact  title  was  '  An  Enquiry  into  the  Doctrine,  lately  propa- 
gated, concerning  Libels,  Warrants,  and  the  Seizure  of  Papers;  with  a  view 
to  some  Proceedings  and  the  Defence  of  them  by  the  Majority;  upon  the 
Principles  of  Law  and  the  Constitution  ;  in  a  Letter  to  Mr.  Almon  from  the 
rather  of  Candor.'  London,  Almon,  1764.  Price  2s.  Gd.  Pp.  135. 


86  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

composition  runs  through  every  page.  It  affords  to  every 
lawyer  further  and  conclusive  proof  that  no  member  of 
the  legal  profession  could  have  written  it,  or  fallen  into 
its  unprofessional  errors.  Walpole  calls  it  a  '  masterly 
tract,'  as  '  bitter,'  and  as  having  much  '  unaffected  wit,'  and 
'as  the  only  tract  that  ever  made  me  understand  law.' l 
Gray,  in  a  letter  to  Walpole,  enquires,  '  Is  the  old  man 
and  the  lawyer  put  on,  or  is  it  real  ?  Or  has  some  real 
lawyer  furnished  a  good  part  of  the  materials,  and  another 
person  employed  them  ?  This  I  guess.'  Walpole  himself 
had  been  suspected,  and,  as  he  stated,  much  to  the  gratifi- 
cation of  his  vanity,  although  he  felt  himself  honourably 
obliged  to  repudiate  the  parentage. 

The  work  was  probably  published  on  November  29, 
pursuant  to  advertisement  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of 
the  day  previous.  It  ran  through  several  editions,  receiving 
enlargements  and  improvements  by  the  author.  It  was 
coarsely  and  violently  attacked  in  the  ministerial  news- 
papers, but  ineffectively.  Many  opponents  asserted  that 
unmistakably  the  author  was  no  practising  lawyer.  Lord 
Mansfield  felt  the  sting  acutely,  as  did  the  ministry  and 
the  court.  His  lordship  instituted  a  prosecution  against 
Almon,  the  publisher  ;  not  in  the  ordinary  procedure  by 
indictment  or  information,  but  by  motion  in  the  Court  of 
King's  Bench  for  a  writ  of  attachment  for  contempt. 
The  passage  selected  for  prosecution  was  from  the  third 
edition  ;  a  paragraph  in  p.  215,  imputing  to  the  Lord 
Chief  Justice  the  arbitrary  and  illegal  alteration  of  the  in- 
formation or  record  in  the  prosecution  of  Wilkes  for  No. 
45  of  the  '  North  Briton.'  A  rule  nisi,  to  show  cause 
why  a  writ  of  attachment  should  not  issue  against  Almon, 
was  granted  by  the  court  on  the  motion  of  the  Attorney- 

1  Walpole 's  '  Memoirs  of  George  III./  vol.  i.  p.  37,  and  vol.  iii.  p.  165. 
Excellently  edited  by  Sir  Denis  Le  Marchant. 


1764]  .PROSECUTION  OF  ALMON.  87 

General,  January  25,  1765.  When  the  day  arrived  for 
showing  cause,  Lord  Mansfield  left  the  court ;  Sir  J.  E. 
Wilmot  became  the  only  judge  present,  Denison  and  Yates 
being  absent  from  illness.  Wilmot  refused  to  hear  the 
matter  singly,  postponing  it  till  the  next  term  and  a  full 
bench.  On  May  1  following  (Easter  Term),  Sir  Ei chard 
Aston  (appointed  a  puisne  judge  on  Denison's. resignation) 
with  Wilmot  and  Yates,  heard  the  arguments  on  showing 
cause  why  the  writ  should  not  issue.  Dunning  and  Ser- 
geant Glynn  ably  argued  the  case  on  behalf  of  Almon, 
the  Attorney  and  Solicitor-General  (Norton  and  De  Grey) 
with  Moreton  and  Wallace,  on  behalf  of  the  Crown. 
The  defendant's  counsel  contended  that  the  paragraph  in 
question  was  no  libel  properly  applicable  or  personal  to 
Lord  Mansfield ;  that  if  a  libel  the  publisher  was  only 
amenable  to  a  trial  by  jury,  and  that  an  attachment  was 
in  illegal  mode  of  procedure.  Lord  Ferrers'  case  against 
his  countess  was  cited,  and  a  then  recent  case  against 
the  publisher  of  the  '  Moderator,'  in  which  latter  case, 
Lord  Chief  Justice  Pratt,  C.P.,  being  libelled,  a  rule  for  an 
attachment  was  not  made  absolute.  In  the  same  volume 
containing  the  MS.  report  of  the  Wilkes  K.B.  argument 
Francis  has  bound  up  a  copy  of  the  '  Moderator,'  No.  1 , 
with  a  manuscript  note  in  his  own  hand — '  The  second 
number  was  never  published,  the  author  being  threatened 
with  a  prosecution.'  The  '  Moderator  '  was  projected  as  a 
weekly  paper,  price  twopence  halfpenny.  This  first  and 
only  number  was  published  November  19,  176 3. l  The 
Crown  advocates  of  course  contended  for  the  perfect 
legality  of  the  motion,  and  denounced  the  heinousness  of 
Almon's  offence.  The  Attorney-General  said  the  prose- 

1  The  number  consists  of  six  pages,  printed  by  J.  Wilkie,  St.  Paul's 
Churchyard,  London.  It  is  in  favour  of  Wilkes,  so  far  as  regards  the  law 
of  his  case,  but  condemnatory  to  Wilkes's  personal  character. 


88  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

cution  would  have  been  abandoned  had  Almon,  when 
served  with  the  rule  nisi*  '  made  some  kind  of  submission 
and  stopped  the  circulation  of  the  book  ; '  but  instead  of 
such  penitence  'he  had  printed  the  libel  several  times 
since,  and  had  circulated  it  all  over  Europe.'  Lord 
Mansfield  had  again  left  the  court  when  the  argument 
commenced.  On  the  conclusion  of  the  argument,  Sir  J.  E. 
Wilmot,  who  presided,  said  the  cases  were  so  conflicting, 
and  the  issue  so  important,  the  court  would  take  time  to 
consider  its  decision.  No  judgment  was  given  in  that  term. 
A  most  ludicrous  error  in  the  original  proceedings  liberated 
Almon  from  the  fangs  of  his  prosecutors.  A  report  had 
been  prevalent  early  in  Trinity  Term  that  a  *  flaw '  had 
been  discovered.  The  fact  had  reached  Almon's  ears,  and 
he  had  told  his  counsel  of  it ;  but  they,  not  having  them- 
selves discovered  the  error,  gave  no  credit  to  their  client's 
communication.  But  on  the  following  day,  as  the  court  was 
about  to  rise,  and  Lord  Mansfield  having  again  suddenly 
left,  Sir  J.  E.  Wilmot  called  for  Almon's  counsel.  Dun- 
ning was  in  court,  and  Glynn,  having  just  left,  was  recalled 
at  the  hall  door.  The  judge  informed  them  that  there  was 
found  to  be  a  material  mistake  in  the  January  rule ;  it  was 
entitled  The  King  against  John  Wilkes,  instead  of  The 
King  against  John  Almon.  The  judge  then  intimated  that 
the  bench  desired  the  defendant's  counsel  would  consent 
to  an  amendment  of  the  misnomer.  Dunning  and  Glynn 
both  stoutly  refused  to  forego  their  advantage.  Judge  Yates 
said  that  the  mistake  had  only  come  to  his  knowledge  a 
day  or  two  previously  ;  and  though  it  was  not  the  practice 
of  the  court  to  make  corrections,  yet  in  this  particular 
case  he  thought  a  rectification  would  be  perfectly  right 
and  necessary.  Sir  E.  Aston  agreed  with  his  brother 
judge,  saying  it '  was  a  very  particular  issue,  in  which  the 


1764]  PROSECUTION  OF  ALMON.  89 

honour  of  the  court  was  deeply  concerned.'  Sir  J.  E. 
Wilmot,  with  much  warmth  and  earnestness,  in  vain  re- 
peated the  pressure  on  Almon's  counsel.  Sergeant  Glynn 
moved  the  discharge  of  the  rule.  The  court  refused. 
The  Attorney-General  offered  to  consent  to  the  discharge 
of  the  rule,  but  on  terms  inadmissible  to  the  defendant's 
counsel.  Finally  Sir  J.  E.  Wilmot  asked  Sergeant  Glynn 
as. a  gentleman  to  give  his  consent.  The  judge  and  coun- 
sel were  socially  intimate  friends,  and  Glynn  was  piqued 
by  such  an  appeal.  He  replied,  with  warmth,  '  that  as  a 
man  of  honour  he  could  not  consent,  for  that  his  client 
had  been  with  him  the  day  before  and  told  him  of  the 
error  and  the  intention  of  a  proposed  amendment,  which 
at  that  time  he  did  not  give  credit  to  ;  and  that  Almon 
had  instructed  him  particularly  not  to  consent  to  any 
amendment  proposed.'  This  extraordinary  scene  lasted 
two  hours,  another  subterfuge  being  also  suggested  by  the 
Crown  counsel,  and  as  peremptorily  refused. 

The  Treasury  solicitors  prepared  a  new  and  much  en- 
larged accusation  with  new  affidavits,  charging  fresh 
matter  of  libel,  and  on  which  they  obtained  another  rule 
nisi.  But  in  the  meantime  Almon  had  '  retired  '  into  the 
country  and  could  not  be  served.  The  officers  unable 
personally  to  serve  the  absentee  publisher,  application 
for  a  third  rule  was  made,  when  the  court,  on  the  com- 
plaint that  Almon  was  avoiding  service,  granted  a  rule 
with  the  unusual  order  '  that  leaving  a  copy  of  this  rule 
with,  and  showing  the  original  to  any  of  the  family  of  the 
said  John  Almon,  shall  be  deemed  good  service  of  this 
rule ;'  and  the  defendant  was  ordered  to  show  cause  on 
the  following  Tuesday  why  an  attachment  should  not  issue. 
On  the  day  appointed,  Dunning  applied  to  the  court 
for  an  extension  of  time,  as  the  defendant  could  not 


90  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

possibly  prepare  a  defence  in  so  important  an  issue  of 
law  and  facts,  arid  alluding  specially  to  '  the  great  length 
of  fresh  matter.'  The  court  in  its  '  indulgence '  enlarged 
the  time  for  showing  cause  until  the  next  term.  Fortu- 
nately for  Almon,  and  perhaps  for  the  honour  of  a  political 
bench  of  judges,  in  July  the  Eockingham  administration 
discontinued  the  prosecution  ;  or  rather  the  new  Crown 
officers  were  instructed  to  let  it  '  drop.' 

The  Law  Reports  contain  no  record  of  this  memor- 
able attempt  to  pervert  the  law  by  the  suppression  of  an 
admirable  and  perfectly  legitimate  defence  of  the  liberty 
of  the  press.  Indeed  we  have  but  scanty  notices  of  the 
gallant  contest  maintained  by  writers,  printers,  and  pub- 
lishers against  the  political  Crown  prosecutions  of  the  first 
twelve  years  of  the  reign  of  George  III.,  except  of  the 
numerous  legal  proceedings  against  Wilkes.  The  Crown 
did  not  usually  chronicle  its  failures,  and  defendants  were 
too  glad  to  escape  from  the  toils  of  persecution  without 
tempting  the  hands  of  power  to  repeat  them.1 

It  is  scarcely  worth  while  here  to  state  the  external 
and  internal  evidence  of  both  pamphlets  being  by  the 
same  author.  Ample  reasons  have  been  lately  given  for 
the  belief,  and  many  more  might  be  added.  In  a  future 
chapter  further  proof  will  be  given.  The  original  as- 
sumed name  of  the  second  publication  is  the  '  Father  of 
Candor.'  The  place  of  date  is  '  Westminster,  October  17, 
1764,'  Francis,  it  will  have  been  observed,  had  removed 
into  Duke  Street,  Westminster.  Probably  he  desired  that 
his  second  publication  should  appear  under  another 
signature  as  a  second  and  distinct  advocate  of  the  cause. 
But  the  latter  pamphlet  abounds  in  incidents  which  bring 

1  A  meagre  report  of  this  case  of  Almon  was  published  in  1788,  in  Almon 
and  Debrett's  'Collection  of  Scarce  and  Interesting  Tracts  '  (vol.  i.  p.  260). 
It  contains  the  original  rule  and  affidavits. 


1764]  'THE  FATHER  OF  CANDOR.'  91 

the  authorship  home  to  his  p^n.  The  motto  on  the  title- 
page  is  from  '  Chevy  Chace  '-• 

The  child  may  rue,  that  is  unborn, 
.        The  hunting  of  that  day. 

This  same  motto  is  one  of  two  which  appeared  on  the 
title-page  of  '  A  Genuine  Account  of  the  late  Grand  Ex- 
pedition to  the  Coast  of  France  under  Admiral  Hawke 
Knowles  Broderick  and  General  Mordaunt,  by  a  Volunteer 
in  the  said  Expedition,  1759.'  This  was  an  expedition 
preceding  that  of  General  Bligh,  to  whom  Francis  was 
private  secretary.  Francis  had  a  copy  of  that  pamphlet 
in  his  collection  of  contemporary  tracts,  and  he  probably 
adopted  such  motto  seven  years  afterwards  ;  at  least  it  is  a 
fair  presumption  that  the  verses  would  thus  occur  to  him. 
He  had  also  the  first  edition  of  Lloyd's  pamphlet,  the 
'Majority  Defended,'  noticed  in  the  title-page  of  the 
'  Enquiry,'  and  which  pamphlet  of  Lloyd's  was  a  principal 
subject  of  the  Father  of  Candor's  animadversion  and  reply. 
In  his  first  page  the  alliteration  of  the  preposition  to,1  in 
the  two  first  sentences,  occurs  eight  times,  and  frequently 
and  uneuphoniously  throughout  the  work  ;  besides  many 
peculiarities  in  the  use  of  words  common  to  Francis  and 
Candor.  The  first  law  author  quoted  is  Hawles's  treatise 

1  Mr.  Parkes  frequently  alludes  to  the  redundancy  of  the  preposition  'to,' 
which,  in  his  opinion,  marked  the  style  of  Junius.  I  have  made  a  comparison 
of  the  frequency  of  its  occurrence  in  various  writers.  I  have  selected  pas- 
sages (several)  averaging  300  words  ;  and  the  following  results  are  obtained, 
which  are  perhaps  a  little  curious.  Their  value  of  course  depends  on  the 
wideness  of  the  induction :  readers,  if  they  please,  can  compare  for  them- 
selves. 

In  Mill's  'British  India,'  the  word  'to  '  occurs  on  the  average  six  times 
in  300  words. 

In  Johnson  (Kambler) 7 

Macaulay  (Essays) 7 

Goldwin  Smith  (Lectures) 7 

Jnnius         .         .         .         .         .         .         '         .10 

Burke  (various  works) 10 

Francis  (various  works) l(l 

[EDITOR.] 


92  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

on  petty  juries,  called  4  The  Englishman's  Eight ; '  Fitz- 
herbert's  « Natura  Brevium,'  Selden,  Hall,  Burn's  '  Justice,' 
Clarendon  (the  extremely  rare  edition  edited  by  Sheb- 
beare,  suppressed  by  injunction),  Somers,  Fortescue,  Locke, 
Zenger's  '  Trial,'  the  State  Tracts,  Grey's  Parliamentary 
Debates,  the  old  Parliamentary  History — nearly  all  the 
volumes  quoted  from  the  original.  All,  also,  were  editions 
of  dates  anterior  to  1764.  The  printed  votes  and  journals 
of  Parliament  he  would  have  access  to  in  the  public  offices. 
At  this  period  the  British  Museum  had  a  most  imperfect 
library,  little  resorted  to  ;  and  there  was  scarcely  a  public 
or  circulating  library  in  London  used  by  men  writing 
for  the  press,  or  possessing  works  on  constitutional  law. 
Again,  passages  in  the  '  Father  of  Candor '  show  a 
marked  knowledge  not  only  of  the  government  offices 
and  departments,  but  of  diplomacy ;  and  specially  an 
acquaintance  with  the  habits  of  clerks.  One  singular 
instance  may  be  quoted.  In  denouncing  the  infamy  of  the 
seizure  of  all  the  private  papers  of  a  man  suspected  or 
accused  of  seditious  writings,  the  author  says,  'These 
papers  are  immediately  to  be  thrown  into  the  hands  of 
some  clerks,  of  much  curiosity,  and  of  very  little  business 
in  times  of  peace,  who  will,  upon  being  bid  to  sort  and 
select  those  that  relate  to  such  and  such  a  particular 
thing,  naturally  amuse  themselves  with  the  perusal  of  all 
the  private  letters,  memorandums,  secrets,  and  intrigues 
of  the  gentleman  himself,  and  of  all  his  friends  and  ac- 
quaintance of  both  sexes.'  (Page  56,  first  ed.)  In  the 
second  edition,  a  copy  of  which  Francis  also  had,  the 
Father  of  Candor  adds  a  curious  new  note  (p.  60), 
particularising  circumstances  relating  to  the  seizure  of 
Wilkes's  papers,  in  which  the  Father  states,  4  And  1  will 
add,  from  my  own  knowledge,  tKat  those  who  had  the 
searching  of  his  papers  divulged  the  contents  of  some 


1704]  'THE  FATHER  OF  CANDOR.'  93 

private  letters,  which  might  have  been  prejudicial  to  the 
writer  of  them,  and  have  hurt  his  interest  and  his  friend- 
ship with  other  friends.'1  •  This  information  was  probably 
public  office  gossip,  or  derived  by  Francis  from  the  office 
of  Lord  Egremont  or  Mr.  Wood,  or  from  the  same  quarter 
in  which  he  obtained  a  copy  of  the  MS.  report  of  the 
proceedings  in  Wilkes's  case.  Further,  the  Candor  Tracts 
contain  peculiar  commentaries  on  Lord  Mansfield's  judicial 
observations  during  the  arguments  on  the  case  of  Wilkes, 
and  on  the  spirit  and  manner  of  the  Chief  Justice.  Now 
Francis's  manuscript  report  is  pencil-marked  for  observation 
in  his  peculiar  marks,  and  the  manuscript  was  clearly  the 
text  of  Candor  and  the  Father  of  Candor.  The  writer  also 
betrays  a  knowledge  of  the  Egremont  family,  in  the  note 
on  the  Wyndham  case  at  the  end  of  the  '  Enquiry,'  and 
which  case  the  Candors  therein  state  '  was  the  great  case 
urged  in  favour  of  Mr.  Wilkes.'  ('  Enquiry,'  p.  133.)  Now 
Francis,  it  will  be  recollected,  had  held  a  clerkship  in  Lord 
Egremont's  office  ;  Sir  William  Wyndham,  his  Lordship's 
father,  having  been  committed  to  the  Tower  in  1715,  and 
discharged  in  1716  by  habeas  corpus  in  the  Common  Pleas. 
In  fact  the  legal  cases  cited  by  the  Father  of  Candor  are 
chiefly  paraphrases  of  the  arguments  of  counsel  and  the 
judgment  of  the  bench  in  the  above  MS.  report.  Francis 
certainly  may  have  had  the  help  of  some  lawyer,  a  confi- 
dential friend,  who  may  have  looked  over  his  pamphlet 
previous  to  publication  ;  but  with  such  full  materials 
as  he  himself  had,  and  versed  in  constitutional  law,  there 
could  be  no  reasons  why  he  should  have  been  assisted  in 
the  legal  parts  of  the  pamphlets.  In  what  mode  Francis 
anonymously  communicated  with  Almon,  or  by  what 
channels  he  '  conveyed  '  to  that  publisher  his  manuscripts, 
remains  a  mystery.  Probably  if  proof-sheets  found  their 

1  'A  little  chink  lets  in  much  light.' — Old  Saying. 


94  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1704 

way  to  Francis,  he  would  retain  his  manuscript.  Un- 
doubtedly the  author  succeeded  in  concealing  his  identity 
from  Almon  ;  and  secresy  being  evidently  the  writer's 
particular  care,  Francis  would  adopt  such  modes  of 
communication  and  conveyance  as  secured  his  object. 
Eosenhagen  was  personally  known  to  Almon,  who  four 
years  afterwards  published  a  political  pamphlet  for  that 
eccentric  clergyman  ;  and  possibly  Eosenhagen  may  have 
been  the  conveyancing  medium.  The  parson  was  a  strong 
Wilkite,  and,  as  we  know,  a  confidential  friend  of  Francis. 
Again,  the  pages  of  the  Candors  attack  Lord  Mansfield 
specially  for  his  preference  of  the  principles  of  civil  law, 
imputing  the  design  of  the  Chief  Justice  to  be  their  sub- 
stitution for  our  ancient  common  law.  This  suspicion 
particularly  filled  the  mind  of  Francis,  and  he  well  knew 
the  conflict  of  decisions  involving  this  difference  between 
Lord  Camden  and  Lord  Mansfield.  In  a  quarto  volume 
of  legal  and  political  pamphlets  he  has  preserved  examples 
of  this  difference  between  those  two  eminent  judges.  His 
special  manuscript  note  on  the  first  fly  leaf  of  the  collec- 
tion notes,  '  This  volume  contains  a  curious  and  valuable 
collection  of  the  transactions  and  principles  of  the  period 
they  relate  to,  especially  1769  and  1770.'  Lord  Camden's 
great  judgment  in  Doe  v.  Kersey,  delivered  in  Easter  Term, 
1735,  forming  part  of  this  volume,  had  evidently  been 
read  by  Francis,  some  typographical  errors  being  corrected 
by  him.  The  last  sentence  in  that  judgment  was  palpably 
aimed  at  Lord  Mansfield  : — 

I  am  not  wise  enough  to  determine  which  of  the  two  laws  is  most 
perfect,  the  Roman  or  the  English.  This  I  know  (which  is  enough 
for  a  judge),  that  although  almost  every  country  in  Europe  hath 
received  that  body  of  laws,  yet  they  have  been  with  a  most  stubborn 
constancy  at  all  times  disclaimed  and  rejected  by  England.  For 
which  reason  (and  not  through  any  disrespect  to  the  argument  I 
have  been  endeavouring  to  answer),  I  choose  to  lay  aside  all  that 
•learning  as  not  being  relevant  in  Westminster  Hall. 


1764J  THE  CANDOR  PAMPHLETS.  95 

In  a  volume  of  pamphlets,  chiefly  of  1765,  Francis  has 
bound  up  the  January  numbers  of  the  '  Critical  Eeview  ' 
and  the  '  Monthly  Review  '  for  that  year.  Both  appear 
to  have  been  preserved  on  account  of  articles  on  the 
legality  of  general  warrants,  in  reviews  of  writers  against 
the  Candors ;  possibly  notices  of  opponents  by  himself. 
The  article  in  the  former  review  concludes,  '  Nor  can 
five  millions  of  Cokes  and  Hobarts  persuade  us  that  it  is 
not  material  whether  a  libel  is  true  or  false  ;  that  a  libel  is 
not  to  be  justified  though  the  contents  be  true  ;  nay,  that 
if  true,  it  is  the  more  provoking,  and  consequently  the 
more  libellous.'  The  '  Monthly  Eeview '  notice  of  the 
opponent  of  the  Candors  says,  '  A  writer  who  undertakes 
the  defence  of  general  warrants  ought  to  be  (Edipus  or 
Non  Davus.  As  well  might  he  attempt  to  make  an 
Ethiopian  white ;  nay,  as  well  might  he  attempt  to 
communicate  patriotism  to  a  prime  minister,  or  candour 
to  the  leader  of  a  faction.  But  if  we  judge  aright,  all 
that  this  considerer  means,  is  to  prove  himself  the  most 
obsequious  Humble  servant  of  the  ruling  powers.'  In  the 
third  edition  of  the  Father  of  Candor's  pamphlet  published 
in  1766  (a  copy  of  which  Francis  also  had),  a  postscript 
is  added  in  reply  to  the  above-mentioned  adversaries. 
This  postscript  bears  the  date  of  January  24,  1765.  The 
edition  also  reprints  in  an  appendix  a  letter  to  the '  Public 
Advertiser,'  dated  Gray's  Inn,  November  11,  1765,  signed 
with  the  initial '  C.'  A  sixth  edition  issued  in  1766.  From 
numerous  errata  at  the  end  this  reprint  seems  to  have 
received  less  correction  by  the  author.  Some  weeks  in 
that  year  Francis  was  on  the  continent.  In  an  after  part 
of  this  biography  further  proofs  will  be  given  of  the 
Francis  authorship  of  these  celebrated  and  popular  Candor 
essays,  which  were  resumed  and  continued  for  several  years 
after  1764. 


96  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1764 

One  observation  only  needs  here  be  added — the  fact 
that  although  Mr.  Wood,  the  secretary  of  the  Treasury, 
was  the  principal  official  directing  the  issue  and  execu- 
tion of  the  seizure  warrants,  and  also  the  defendant  in 
Wilkes's  action  for  damages,  no  single  offensive  word  or 
personal  observation  throughout  the  Candors  are  made 
on  that  gentleman.  The  reason  is  obvious  ;  he  was  the 
patron  and  friend  of  Francis.  Mr.  Grenville's  name  is  only 
once  mentioned,  and  Lord  Egremont,  one  of  the  signers 
of  the  warrant,  is  tenderly  treated.  The  '  Gazetteer,'  a 
ministerial  daily  paper,  Francis  rarely  attacked  or  quoted. 
Dr.  Francis  had  been  long  connected  with  that  journal,  and 
his  son  would  therefore  naturally  avoid  any  conflict  with 
his  father ;  nor  do  the  Candors  in  a  single  instance  cite  or 
animadvert  on  the  Doctor's  political  pamphlets. 

His  father's  cultivation  of  the  son's  early  study  of 
philology,  and  a  minute  observance  of  correct  grammar, 
orthography,  and  punctuation,  directed  the  attention  of 
Francis  to  the  art  of  composition.  On  the  fly-leaf  of  the 
folio  MS.  volume  in  which  he  preserved  copies  of  the  Kin- 
noul  Lisbon  papers  and  correspondence,  and  which  volume 
contains  the  copy  of  bis  1763  '  Public  Ledger '  letter,  he 
has  copied  the  well-known  Latin  definition  of  a  perfect 
style  by  Cicero,  paraphrasing  it  as  follows  :  '  Whoever 
can  avoid  these  faults,  so  as  not  to  transpose  a  word  so 
that  it  may  be  perceived  to  be  done  on  purpose ;  not  to 
stuff  in  words,  as  if  to  fill  up  chinks,  not  to  cut  down  and 
enervate  his  sentences  in  pursuit  of  short  periods,  nor 
always  employ  periods  of  the  same  cadence  and  measure 
without  variety :  such  a  man  will  have  avoided  almost 
every  fault.'  And  throughout  his  earlier  collections  are 
extracts  from  different  authors  on  the  principles  of  com- 
position and  on  the  formation  of  style. 

Francis  has  not  preserved  a  single  letter  received  by 


1765]  DOMESTIC   AFFAIRS.  97 

him  in  1765,  except  three  from  his  wife  in  the  summer  of 
that  year.  These  attest  the  warmth  of  his  conjugal  and 
parental  affections,  and  may  interest  the  reader  as  evi- 
dence that  his  passion  for  politics  did  not  diminish  his 
devoted  love  of  his  wife  and  his  children. 

June  4,  1765. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — Although  I  have  two  letters  from  you  since  I 
wrote  last,  yet  I  have  so  little  to  say  at  present  that  I  question  whether 
I  shall  fill  more  than  one  side.  Everything  here  is  so  much  the  samo 
that  if  I  would  be  new  I  must  be  obliged  to  invent ;  and  this,  I  think, 
is  hardly  worth  while.  Mrs.  Sneyd  is  brought  to  bed  of  a  boy  ;  not 
much  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  father,  who  begins  to  be  of  opinion 
that  it  is  possible  to  be  plagued  with  too  great  a  number  of  children. 
It  was  owing  to  your  brother's  disappointing  me,  and  changing  a 
plan  he  had  proposed  himself  that  I  did  not  go  to  Mr.  Ch — r's.  I 
cannot  think  of  going  to  Paris  before  the  beginning  of  next  month 
at  soonest,  if  at  all.  So  I  hope  there  is  no  doubt  of  seeing  you  long 
before  that  time.  But  pray,  madam,  now  we  are  upon  the  subject, 
when  is  it  you  propose  to  come  home  again  ?  You  have  now  been 
gone  near  three  weeks.  For  my  own  part,  I  shall  be  happy  to  have 
you  with  me,  yet  do  not  wish  you  to  return,  as  long  as  you  can  stay 
with  convenience  and  satisfaction  to  yourself.  But  pray  be  pleased 
to  let  [sic]  what  your  plan  is. 

The  want  of  a  library,  I  should  think,  must  be  very  disagreeable, 
and  what  is  worse  it  shews  Margate  to  be  a  wretched,  ill-provided 
place.  Pray  how  do  you  live,  and  what  sort  of  provisions  do  you 
get  ?  Have  you  got  the  hammercloth  ?  Remember  for  the  future 
to  seal  your  letters  to  me  a  little  better,  as  the  outside  cover  is  some- 
times opened  by  other  hands.  I  send  you  the  newspapers  regularly 
three  times  a  week,  and  hope  they  answer  the  purpose  of  some  little 
amusement,  but  I  take  for  granted  that  what  with  your  bathing, 
your  riding,  and  your  children,  the  time  does  not  hang  too  heavy 
upon  your  hands. 

I  have  never  seen  anything  of  the  Gordons  or  Pownals,  nor  indeed 
inquired  at  all  about  them.  I  went  to  Chitty's  on  Saturday  even- 
ing and  staid  till  Monday  morning :  my  horse  kept  me  company,  and 
contributed  to  make  my  time  pass  agreeable  enough.  Old  F.  has,  I 
believe,  certainly  got  this  place  at  last ;  and  the  young  one  will,  I 
verily  believe,  go  with  me  to  Paris,  in.  spite  of  his  wife  and  Jack 
Clark.  Yours,  my  dearest  love,  eternally, 

P.  F. 

I  forgot  to  tell  you  that  I  paid  a  visit  this  morning  to  Gorman  for 
VOL.  I.  H 


98  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1765 

the  first  time,  and  introduced  myself  to  his  new  wife.  She  appears 
to  me  to  be  a  very  agreeable  young  woman,  and  has  much  the  air 
of  being  well  bred.  I  promised  that  you  should  wait  on  her  when 
you  returned. 

[Left  half  direction  torn  off.] 

June  8,  1765. 

Indeed,  my  dearest  Betsy,  I  am  very  serious  when  I  say  I  think 
your  absence  long,  and  the  prospect  of  three  weeks  more  appears 
almost  an  age.  However,  if  you  and  the  children  are  benefitted  by 
it,  I  shall  be  satisfied,  and  leave  it  to  your  own  judgement.  I  suppose 
all  moderate  exercise  must  be  of  service  to  you,  therefore  have  no 
objection  to  your  dancing  a  little.  All  I  apprehend  is  that  the 
vjompany  may  not  be  such  as  you  ought  to  dance  with.  Doctor 
Macnamara,  with  whom  I  am  to  dine  at  his  house  in  the  country 
to-morrow,  tells  me  he  cannot  set  out  in  less  than  a  fortnight,  so  I 
suppose  you  will  see  but  little  of  him  and  his  family.  I  supped  last 
night  at  Vauxhall  with  your  brother,  Fitz,  and  Clark.  This  scoun- 
drell,  I  suppose,  has  not  yet  sent  you  the  hammercloth,  but  I  shall 
make  a  deduction  for  it.  I  hope  you  have  not  only  a  good  appetite 
but  also  good  provisions  to  pacify  it  withal.  I  am  told  you  may 
have  excellent  fish  of  all  sorts.  As  your  letters  for  the  future  will 
be  franked,  I  shall  make  no  scruple  of  writing  as  little  as  I  please, 
and  to  as  little  purpose. 

I  dine  [sic]  at  Gordon's  yesterday — they  enquired  properly  about 
you  and  desire  their  compliments.  Mine  to  your  mother,  and  kisses 
to  the  children. 

Yours,  my  sweetest  love,  always  and  with  the  greatest  truth, 

P.  F. 

June  llth,  1765. 

This  post  is  very  convenient,  for  though  we  are  above  seventy 
miles  off,  I  hear  this  morning  how  you  did  yesterday.  This  is  so 
great  a  pleasure  to  me  that  I  wait  with  impatience  for  the  hour  of 
the  post,  and  woe  be  to  you  if  you  disappoint  me.  I  am  perfectly 
satisfied  that  you  will  not  dance  with  any  but  a  proper  person,  but 
that  was  not  what  I  meant ;  I  am  apt  to  suspect  that  the  general  run 
of  the  company  is  not  of  the  best,  therefore  would  wish  you  not  to 
make  yourself  too  cheap  among  them.  Who  did  you  dance  with  ? 
The  time  till  my  dearest  Betsy  returns  seems  full  as  tedious  to  me 
»s  it  can  do  to  you.  I  wish  it  were  possible  for  me  to  take  a  trip 
to  Margate,  but  that  would  make  it  impossible  for  me  to  execute 
my  Paris  scheme.  Your  brother  and  Fitz  and  I  went  to  Foote's 
last  night,  and  afterwards  they  supped  upon  bread  and  butter  with 


1765]  ME.  PARKES  ON  CANDOR  PAMPHLETS.  99 

me.  Mr.  D'Oyly  desires  me  to  tell  you  he  is  determined  to  frank 
for  nobody  but  you.  I  wonder  the  Chandler  people  have  never  in- 
vited me  to  their  country  house,  for  it  seems  that  what  he  said  to 
your  brother  hardly  amounted  to  an  invitation.  I  shall  certainly 
not  think  of  going  untill  they  ask  me  in  form  ;  and  indeed  it  is  full 
as  well  as  it  is  ;  I  had  much  rather  have  you  there  at  the  same  time. 
My  sweetest  Betsy,  I  hope  you  think  of  me,  and  that  you  really 
wish  to  be  with  me  again  ;  if  you  do  not  you  are  ungrateful  to  the 
last  degree.  Haven't  you  fixed  the  day  yet  for  your  return  ?  As 
you  are  such  a  constant  bather,  I  should  imagine  your  stay  might 
be  shortened.  But  all  this  I  leave  to  yourself.  As  I  write  con- 
stantly twice  a  week,  you  ought  to  be  contented,  though  I  don't 
complain  of  your  wishing  to  hear  oftener  from  me.  I  wish  Sally 
would  do  me  the  favour  to  say  a  few  words ;  can't  you  persuade 
her  to  write  a  line  or  two  to  me  ? 

Yours,  my  dearest  Betsy,  for  ever, 

P.  F. 

A  chapter  in  Francis's  life  has  now  to  be  unfolded, 
when,  discovering  and  thus  first  exercising  the  power  of 
his  pen,  he  commenced  a  series  of  contributions  to  the 
'Public  Advertiser'  which  will  ever  identify  his  name 
with  the  political  history  of  Great  Britain, 


I  here  subjoin  a  very  imperfect,  but  valuable,  note, 
which  I  find  in  the  handwriting  of  Mr.  Parkes,  containing 
apparently  the  suggestions  which  gradually  occurred  to 
his  own  mind  as  to  the  identity  of  '  Candor '  with  Junius, 
and  the  '  Irenarch '  pamphlet.  [EDITOR.] 

MEMORANDUM  BY  MR.  PARKES  ON  THE  CANDOR 
PAMPHLETS. 

I  never  had  a  doubt  that  these  remarkable  pamphlets,  which  may 
be  truly  said  to  have  paved  the  way  for  the  Libel  Act  of  Mr.  Fox, 
were  the  sole  production  of  Junius,  as  the  editor  of  the  Grenville 
correspondence  truly  said,  'whoever  he  was.'  The  letters  of  the 
latter  show  the  powers  of  the  same  writer  ripened  by  experience  and 

H  2 


100  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1765 

the  use  of  the  press  :  the  same  double-eyed  satire,  the  same  palpable 
signs  of  a  non-professional  lawyer,  but  versed  in  constitutional  know- 
ledge ;  the  same  familiarity  with  classical  learning ;  the  same  cautious 
concealment  of  the  authorship  ;  the  same  affectation  that  he  was 
old,  not  young,  a  resident  in  the  country,  not  in  London  ;  the  same 
opinions  on  all  extraneous  subjects  incidentally  mentioned ;  the  same 
animus  throughout ;  the  same  opening  exordium  ;  the  same  object,  a 
free  press ;  and  the  same  practice  of  hinting  yet  concealing  his 
identity.  His  motives  of  concealment  were  doubtless  the  same, 
that  he  was  in  a  public  office,  while  writing,  though  cautiously  and 
temperately,  against  the  ministry  of  the  day,  as  well  as  against  Lord 
Mansfield.  Such  was  Francis's  then  position  in  life.  And  it  is 
observable  that  his  enmity  as  Candor  to  Lord  Mansfield  was  far 
less  bitter  than  as  Junius.  In  Francis's  letter  to  Mr.  Allen  (to 
Lisbon)  at  that  time  (1764),  he  agreed  much  with  Lord  Mansfield 
on  the  American  colonial  question,  though  diametrically  opposed 
to  that  eminent  judge  on  Libel  Law.  Hence  his  general  eulogy  of 
the  chief-justice.  Candor  could  not  afford  to  avow  himself.  When 
I  found  the  '  Irenarch '  pamphlet  among  Sir  P.  Francis's  books, 
and  bound  up  with  the  third  edition  of  the  '  Letter  on  Libels, 
Warrants,  &c.'  by  the  '  Father  of  Candor,'  I  could  not  doubt  that 
Irenarch  was  not  only  a  justification  of  Jnniiis,  but  of  Candor,  and  as 
certainly  by  Francis  before  he  left  England  for  India.  The  Irenarch 
is  one  of,  and  the  last  of,  the  Candor  and  Junlus  pamphlets. 

Then,  when  in  August  1860,  I  accidentally  found  an  autograph 
letter  and  errata  of  Candor  in  Mr.  Woodfall's  papers  I  could  no 
longer  doubt — they  being  in  Francis's  hand.1 

The  Irenarch  appears  to  me  on  the  whole  the  most  remarkable 
of  all  the  Candor  and  Junlus  productions.  It  is  evidently  the 
thoughtful  and  matured  production  of  the  common  writer  on  a  calmer 
review  of  his  passionate  productions  as  Candor  and  Junius.  The 
pamphlet  (Irenarch)  must  be  by  the  same  writer,  as  any  other 
wiiter  would  have  made  admissions  of  error,  whereas  the  Irenarch 
makes  no  atonement,  but  elects  to  vindicate  only  the  defensible  posi- 
tions of  Candor  and  Junius.  The  Irenarch  also  betrays  (A.D.  1773-4) 
association  with  recent  travel  on  the  continent,  and  also  singularly 
states  the  accident  of  the  writer  having  no  pecuniary  interest  in  his 
pamphlet,  '  being  accidentally  '  independent  pecuniarily  of  its  suc- 
cess, or  failure  of  profitable  circulation — Francis  having  in  hand  his 


1  Candor's  errata  are  on  War  Office  folio  paper,  and  his  private  letter  to 
Woodfall  written  across  a  folio  half  sheet  both  on  half  sheets ;  the  habit  of 
Junius. 


1765]       MR.  PARKES  ON  THE  CANDOR  PAMPHLETS.          101 

India  appointment !  All  these  circumstances  are  ample  circum- 
stantial evidence.  Irenarch  has  a  familiarity  with  the  Junius  letters 
inexplicable  except  as  Junius  himself.  Nor  could  any  other  indi- 
vidual have  been  minded  to  write  or  incur  the  cost  of  such  a  vindi- 
cation of  Junius.  His  errors  were  a  by-gone  question  with  all  but 
the  author.  There  is  no  publisher's  name.  It  is  not  entered  at 
Stationer's  Hall.  No  copy  hitherto  has  yet  come  to  light,  except 
Francis's  own  copy.  Was  it  ever  published,  or  was  Francis  afloat 
to  India  before  its  publication  ? 

Note. — All  Sir  P.  Francis's  private  letters  of  the  Candor  period 
destroyed.  None  preserved. 

His  fragment  of  autobiography  records  his  coffee-house  accident 
of  acquisition  of  law  doctrines  and  cases ;  which  source  of  infor- 
mation Candor  admits  and  distinctly  asserts.  Indeed  no  barrister 
or  attorney  could  but  detect  that  Candor  was  no  lawyer,  but  a  simple 
layman :  and  such  is  Candor's  own  distinct  and  repeated  avowal, 
with  constant  apologies  for  ignorance  of  legal  lore  and  legal  phrase- 
ology. 

Junius  constantly  plagiarises  Candor,  and  as  often  evinces  the 
same  scant  knowledge  of  law ;  citing  cases  rarely  originally,  but 
usually  at  second  hand  from  the  old  Parliamentary  history,  Grey's 
Debates,  from  Clarendon,  and  second  hand  authorities.  Francis 
may  have  been  assisted  by  Tilghman  and  other  friends  in  the  legal 
profession — not  probably,  but  possibly.  The  blemishes  of  style,  the 
singular  use  of  to  and  but,  are  the  same  in  both  writers  ;  the  same 
'  irreligion,'  the  same  cant  phraseology  of  diplomatists,  the  same 
punctuation,  the  same  peculiar  spellings,  &c.,  errata,  &c. 


102  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 


CHAPTER  IV. 
FRANCIS  AND  THE  PRESS — continued. 

[JEi.  24—28.]  ' 

Contributions  to  the  '  Public  Advertiser,' 1765-1 766 — Anti-Sejanus — 
Francis's  habit  of  attending  the  debates  in  Parliament — His  variations 
of  opinion  respecting  the  policy  and  character  of  Pitt — Effect  on  him  of 
Pitt's  acceptance  of  a  peerage,  1766 — The  Chatham  ministry — The 
embargo  on  the  exportation  of  grain — Supposed  contributions  of  1767 
— Visit  to  the  Continent  that  year — Attacks  on  Lord  Townsend — 
The  '  Grand  Council ' — Supports  George  Grenville's  American  policy 
— Lord  Barrington  Secretary  at  War. 

FRANCIS  having  occupied  his  leisure  hours  in  1764-5  in 
the  great  and  important  controversy  of  general  warrants, 
such  a  mind  could  not  long  rest  fallow.  His  motives  for 
the  concealment  of  his  authorship  of  the  Candor  pamphlets 
have  already  been  explained.  Moreover  he  was  a  political 
admirer  of  the  financial  and  colonial  policy  of  Mr.  George 
Grenville,  the  first  Lord  of  the  Treasury  and  Chancellor  of 
the  Exchequer  in  the  Bedford  and  Grenville  ministry; 
and  although  George  Grenville,  as  head  of  the  administra- 
tion, was  principally  responsible  for  the  persecution  of 
Wilkes,  it  is  remarkable  that  Candor  spared  the  virtual 
prime  minister ;  but  it  does  not  appear  that  Francis  had 
the  slightest  personal  acquaintance  with  that  statesman. 
It  was  purely  a  political  preference,  as  the  successor  of 
Lord  Bute.  Francis  at  the  same  time  retained  a  natural 
admiration  of  Pitt.  When,  therefore,  Lord  Kockingham's 
government  replaced  that  of  Grenville,  in  July  1765, 
excluding  Pitt  and  Grenville,  Francis  was  a  malcontent. 


1766]    CONTRIBUTIONS  TO  THE  'PUBLIC  ADVERTISER.'     103 

Several  of  his  letters  found  admission  into  the  '  Public 
Advertiser.'  The  proprietors  of  that  journal  prided  them- 
selves on  never  paying  political  writers,  but  inserted 
contributions  from  partisan  writers  (paid  or  unpaid  by 
their  employers)  of  all  parties,  the  paper  itself  professing 
neutrality.  Francis  soon  entered  the  lists  in  favour  of 
Grenville's  American  policy ;  Lord  Bute,  who  was  still 
believed  to  be  the  back-stairs  influence  at  St.  James's 
palace,  being  of  course  assailed  with  all  his  powers  of 
sarcasm  and  argument. 

It  may  be  thought  difficult  to  trace  Francis's  subsequent 
occasional  and  unavowed  communications  to  the  press,  or 
to  penetrate  all  his  '  labyrinth-like  turns.'  But  the  clue 
once  obtained  to  '  the  circle's  intricate  and  mystic  maze,' 
the  perplexity  is  overcome.  Clearly  he  had  in  1765  re- 
sumed his  correspondence  with  the  'Public  Advertiser,' 
and  therefore  in  the  columns  of  that  paper,  the  then 
leading  journal  of  politics,  might  be  sought  a  continuance 
of  his  political  letters.  Accordingly  in  that  mine  the  ore 
is  found.  His  style,  its  peculiar  force,  metaphors  and 
irony,  and  the  quotation  of  his  favourite  Latin  authors,  are 
almost  unfailing  tests  of  the  vigour  and  wit  of  Candor. 
It  would  be  obviously  impossible  to  discover  with  any 
certainty  his  minor  contributions  of  secondary  ability,  such 
inferior  articles  being  often  common  to  two  or  more  indi- 
viduals. But  throughout  a  series  of  superior  and  marked 
political  letters  the  necessary  quantum  of  proof  of  identity 
may  be  discovered  through  due  research  and  perseverance. 
Such  evidence  may  not  amount  to  absolute  demonstration, 
but  circumstantial  proofs  may  nevertheless  yield  sufficiently 
ample  moral  conviction. 

The  files  of  Woodfall's  journal  of  1766  glaringly  re- 
flect the  mind  and  methods  of  Francis.  On  New  Year's  day 
commenced  a  series  of  sixteen  letters,  between  January  1 


104  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

and  February  26,  under  the  anonymous  signature  of 
Anti-Sejanus,  which,  critically  examined,  the  most  scep- 
tical mind  cannot  doubt  emanated  from  his  pen.  The 
articles  are  more  or  less  a  condemnation  of  the  American 
policy  of  the  Eockingham  ministry.  Woodfall  always 
inserted  them  first  in  the  correspondence.  Within  the 
same  period,  an  able  letter  also  appeared  on  February  4, 
under  the  old  signature  of  C.,  to  which  was  assigned 
the  same  place  of  honour ;  followed  on  the  26th  by 
a  letter  signed  Candor.  It  is  unlikely  that  the  editor 
would  have  admitted  letters  pirating  such  old  and  re- 
spected signatures.  When  letters  bearing  a  common 
signature  proceeded  from  different  individuals,  it  was 
usual  for  the  editor  to  put  a  foot  note  stating  the  fact. 
However,  the  letters  of  Anti-Sejanus  bear  internal  evi- 
dence of  their  authorship.  The  Latin  mottoes  prefixed 
are  from  Francis's  favourite  Eoman  authors — Horace, 
Juvenal,  Plautus,  Lucan,  Persius,  Cicero,  Virgil,  Terence, 
Sallust,  Petronius  Arbiter,  Seneca,  and  Livy.1  Thuanus 
is  also  quoted,  an  author  little  known  to  most  writers. 
Francis  had  the  work  in  his  possession,  and  had  also 
a  good  collection  of  the  Byzantine  authors.  No  writer 
of  the  day  so  much  varied  his  mottoes ;  and  no  one 
of  them  appears  to  have  been  so  generally  learned 
in  the  Latin  classics.  One  of  the  opponents  of  Anti- 
Sejanus  accused  him  of  pedantry,  and  an  ostentatious 
display  of  his  acquirements.  Of  Francis's  opinion  of  the 
American  questions  then  pending  there  can  be  no  ques- 
tion. He  was  an  advocate  qf  the  abstract  right  of  Great 
Britain  to  tax  her  Transatlantic  colonies.  In  theory 
he  was  perhaps  not  mistaken.  But  his  philosophy  was  at 
fault  Plantations  take  time  to  grow  up  into  trees.  Dr. 
Johnson,  whose  pen  had  been  hired  to  prove  that '  taxation 

1  Of  all  these  classics  Francis's  library  contained  editions  prior  to  1766. 


1766]  ANTI-SEJANUS.  105 

was  no  tyranny '  over  the  unrepresented,  in  his  great 
dictionary  had  defined  colonies  to  be  bodies  of  people 
drawn  from  the  mother  country  to  inhabit  distant  places. 
But  the  great  lexicographer  and  Francis  did  not  perceive 
that,  like  infants  till  their  majority,  they  are  dependent  on 
and  subject  to  parents.  When  of  age  the  dependence  is 
determined.  The  new  colonial  community,  in  growing 
intelligence,  numbers,  and  wealth,  becomes  able  to  govern 
itself ;  like  young  eagles  of  the  nest  they  grow  to  be  full 
feathered  and  able  to  fly.  He  however  thought  the  minis- 
terial policy  of  a  repeal  of  the  Stamp  Act  an  evil,  back- 
water course.  The  War  Office  at  this  period  was  the  depart- 
ment receiving  all  the  American  military  and  government 
despatches.  Almost  all  these  documents  relating  to  the 
New  England  and  other  Transatlantic  states  passed  through 
the  hands  of  Francis.  They  are  almost  all  docketed  in 
his  handwriting,  and  the  answers  of  Lord  Barrington  were 
nearly  all  drafted  by  Francis.  His  intimate  knowledge 
therefore  of  the  disputes  with  our  North  American  colonies 
is  patent,  and  it  was  natural  that  he  should  have  received 
such  a  bias.  Further,  his  collection  of  pamphlets  of  the 
period  contains  copies  of  all  the  principal  pamphlets  on 
the  controversy  of  the  Stamp  Act,  and  our  quarrels  with 
the  colonies  from  1764  to  the  commencement  of  the  War 
of  Independence.  The  constitutional  points  involved 
must  have  greatly  interested  him ;  and  it  was  not  till 
after-life  that  he  retracted  his  opinion,  and  admitted 
the  Americans  had  right  on  their  side.  On  the  title  page 
of  a  later  and  the  ablest  defence  of  the  government 
measures  to  tax  the  colonies,  he  has  made  a  manuscript 
note,  '  I  never  saw  an  answer  to  this  pamphlet.'1  No  man 

1  '  The  Controversy  between  Great  Britain  and  her  Colonies  Reviewed, 
&c.  upon  the  Evidence  of  Historical  Facts  and  Authentic  Records.' 
8vo.  pp.  207.  London;  Almon,  1769. 


106  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

therefore  was  better  qualified  for  advocacy  of  the  home 
policy.  Moreover,  he  attended  the  debates  in  parliament 
when  American  and  other  questions  were  discussed.  By 
the  following  curious  letter  to  his  old  Lisbon  friend,  the 
Eev.  Mr.  Allen,  formerly  chaplain  of  the  English  Church  in 
Portugal,  Francis  was  present  in  the  House  of  Lords,  and 
heard  the  celebrated  debate  on  the  colonial  question, 
when  a  minority  of  five  peers  only  formed  the  forlorn 
hope  of  our  Transatlantic  colonists. 

London,  February  4,  1766. 

Dear  Allen, — I  have  but  a  very  few  moments  to  spare,  but  I  will 
not  omit  letting  you  know  the  event  of  one  of  the  most  important 
questions  ever  agitated  in  Parliament.  No  less  than  whether  the 
British  legislature  had  a  right  to  tax  the  British  colonies.  You 
have  undoubtedly  heard  to  what  a  dangerous  height  disputes  have 
been  carried  here  upon  this  point,  especially  since  Mr.  Pitt  thought 
fit  to  declare  himself  so  strongly  in  favour  of  the  claims  of  the 
Americans  :  it  is  true  that  his  opinion  and  his  manner  of  declaring 
it  were  universally  condemned  by  every  Englishman  above  the  rank 
of  a  blacksmith ;  yet  it  did  not  fail,  as  might  well  be  expected,  to 
increase  the  ferment  the  nation  was  in  already.  Yesterday  the 
point  was  solemnly  argued  by  both  Houses  and  decided  in  the 
Upper  House.  In  the  House  of  Lords,  where  I  attended  (for  not  a 
single  stranger  was  admitted  in  the  other  House)  the  debate  lay 
between  the  two  great  pillars  of  the  law,  Lords  Chief  Justice 
Cambden  and  Mansfield.  The  parties  were  all  prepared.  The 
known  anxiety  of  the  public,  the  fullness  of  the  House,  and  the  pro- 
found attention  with  which  these  great  men  were  heard,  made  it  a 
most  solemn  scene,  and  seemed  to  add  something  to  the  real  impor- 
tance of  the  question.  The  debate  took  its  rise  from  a  motion  made 
by  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  as  follows :  '  That  the  King's  Majesty,  by 
and  with  the  advice  and  consent  of  the  Lords  spiritual  and  temporal 
and  Commons  of  Great  Britain  in  Parliament  assembled,  had,  hath, 
and  of  right  ought  to  have,  full  power  and  authority  to  make  laws 
and  statutes  of  sufficient  tone  and  validity  to  bind  the  colonies  and 
people  of  America  subjects  to  the  Crown  of  Great  Britain  in  all 
cases  whatsoever.' 

I  did  not  get  into  the  House  time  enough  to  hear  Lord  Cambden, 
who  opposed  the  motion ;  but  I  understand  that  his  whole  discourse 


1766]  DEBATE  ON  THE  AMERICAN  QUESTION.  107 

was  rather  oratorical  than  argumentative  ;  that  he  seemed  to  have 
adopted  the  declamatory  stile  altogether,  with  the  principles  of  Mr. 
Pitt ;  resting  his  cause  more  upon  natural  rights  of  humanity  and 
the  general  doctrine  of  natural  liberty,  than  upon  the  laws  and  true 
Constitution  of  England.  I  need  not  go  through  the  common  train 
of  arguments  in  favour  of  freedom,  virtual  representation,  trade,  &c., 
which  I  dare  say  were  urged  with  all  the  force  they  could  possibly 
admit  of.  But  to  very  little  effect.  For  when  Lord  Mansfield  had 
made  his  reply,  it  was  so  full,  so  learned,  so  logical,  and  in  every 
respect  so  true,  that  not  an  atom  of  doubt  remained  in  the  breasts 
of  his  hearers.  He  traced  the  colonies  from  their  origin — their 
charters  and  history — the  impossibility  of  supposing  two  supreme 
legislatures — how  impracticable  to  draw  a  line  for  bounding  the 
authority  of  the  British  legislature  ;  the  absurdity  of  attempting  to 
distinguish  between  the  one  act  of  legislation  and  another  ;  as  if  a 
greater  degree  of  power  were  required  to  lay  taxes  than  to  make  any 
other  kind  of  law — proved  by  a  multitude  of  examples  that  such  an 
idea  was  equally  false  in  fact  as  in  reason.  Expressed  the  greatest 
tenderness  for  the  Americans,  and  his  firm  belief  that  these  commo- 
tions might  be  appeased  without  violence  or  bloodshed.  That  to 
give  up  the  act,  in  order  to  save  our  trade,  would  be  in  effect 
incurring — and  the  surest  way  of  incurring — the  mischief  we  en- 
deavoured to  avoid — it  would  be  ne  moriare  mori ;  and  ended  thus  : 
'  I  shall  conclude  with  saying  from  my  inmost  heart  amen  to  a  prayer 
once  made  by  Maurice  Prince  of  Orange  for  his  native  country,  That 
it  may  please  God  to  open  the  understandings  and  better  inform  the 
minds  of  this  poor,  innocent,  industrious,  loyal,  brave,  but  wickedly 
misled  and  deluded  people.'  A  long  pause  between  every  epithet,  and 
a  most  pathetic  delivery,  accompanied  this  sentence  and  had  an 
effect  which  I  cannot  easily  describe.  Lord  Cambden  then  made  a 
short  reply  to  one  particular  point  which  did  not  at  all  affect  the 
whole  question,  and  seemed  to  give  up  the  argument. 

The  House  then  divided,  125  content,  5  not  content.  The 
names  of  the  latter  were  :  Lord  Cambden,  Earl  of  Shelburne,  Earl 
Paulet,  Earl  Cornwallis,  Viscount  Torrington. 

You  may  be  sure  that  this  intelligence  was  soon  carried  to  the 
House  of  Commons.  They  sat  till  past  three,  but  without  dividing, 
and  the  consideration  of  the  above  motion  was  adjourned  till  Wed- 
nesday. But  it  seems  Mr.  Pitt  has  himself  perceived  how  much  the 
turn  of  the  House  is  against  him,  and  we  make  no  doubt  the  motion 
will  be  agreed  to  nemine  contradicente. 

Tout  le  monde  est  d'accord  que  Monsieur  P.  est  ce  qu'on  appelle 
perdu  sans  retour.  Le  minis tere  aussi,  a  ce  que  1'on  dit,  doit  se 


108  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

changer  entitlement  et  bientot.  My  account  of  the  debate  is 
wretchedly  imperfect,  but  I  really  have  not  time  to  make  it  more 
complete,  though  I  have  matter  enough  in  my  head  to  fill  a  volume. 

An  Anti-Sejanus  letter,  of  February  15,  against  the  re- 
peal of  the  Stamp  Act,  confesses  that  the  vacillating  policy 
of  the  Kockingham  ministry  would  make  it  more  difficult 
and  dangerous  to  coerce  or  '  reduce '  the  Americans  into 
submission  to  taxation,  *  since  the  Great  Commoner  threw 
everything  into  confusion.'  This  fling  against  Pitt  doubt- 
less was  an  allusion  to  his  speech  early  in  the  session. 
This  letter  is  only  remarkable  for  its  justification  of  the  free 
play  of  a  constitutional  system  of  representative  govern- 
ment. '  In  every  government  like  this  of  ours,  divisions 
and  factions  are  most  unavoidable  ;  and  perhaps,  under 
certain  limits  and  restrictions,  they  are  so  far  from  being 
productive  of  evil,  that  they  are  even  desirable  and 
salutary.  The  greatest  misfortune  that  can  possibly  be- 
fall a  nation,  is  that  of  a  political  lethargy  ;  when  all  the 
social  and  patriotic  affections  are  lulled  into  a  trance ; 
and  the  pure  ethereal  flame  of  liberty,  that  like  another 
soul  ought  to  pervade  the  whole  system,  is  damped  and 
extinguished.  In  such  a  state  our  faculties  are  benumbed 
and  stupefied.  We  are  deaf  to  the  voice  of  honour ; 
patient  under  the  heaviest  burthens ;  unmoved  at  the 
grossest  indignities  ;  and  insensible  of  the  most  imminent 
dangers.' 

Anti-Sejanus,  on  February  26,  in  an  affected  leave- 
taking  address  to  his  readers,  pretended  a  severe  illness,  and 
the  approaching  close  of  his  earthly  career.  He  informed 
them  that  his  medical  advisers  recommended  him '  to  take 
the  benefit  of  the  Bath  waters,  and  that  he  was  going 
to  that  city  immediately.  The  American  subject  had 
become  threadbare,  and  A.-S.  evidently  desired  to  ter- 
minate his  letters  under  that  signature  as  the  best  mode 


1766]  ANTI-SEJANUS.  109 

of  ending  a  fatiguing  and  exhausted  controversy.'  But 
he  promises  future  communications  to  the  'Public  Ad- 
vertiser '  from  the  country,  if  his  life  was  spared. 

The  cause  of  this  fulmination  against  his  old  idol 
was  most  probably  the  memorable  speech  of  Pitt  on 
January  14,  1766,  on  the  American  question,  the  prin- 
cipal topic  of  the  King's  speech  on  the  opening  of  the 
session.  Pitt  had  not  attended  Parliament  for  some  time 
owing  to  severe  gout.  Indeed,  he  was  ill  in  the  country 
when  the  resolution  in  the  House  of  Commons  to  tax 
America  was  proposed,  and  it  was  on  the  later  occasion 
that,  ill  and  only  just  risen  from  a  sick  bed,  he  pronounced 
the  memorable  words,  '  America  is  almost  in  open  re- 
bellion. I  rejoice  that  America  has  resisted.'  Such  a 
doctrine  at  that  period  was  tantamount  to  treason  in  the 
view  of  the  young  War  Office  clerk.  Nevertheless, 
America  was  only  one  subject  of  political  difference  ;  and 
it  did  not  blind  the  eyes  of  Francis  to  the  former  public 
services  of  Pitt,  nor  extinguish  his  admiration  of  that  great 
statesman's  genius  and  eloquence.  Francis,  residing  close 
to  St.  Stephen's,  frequently  attended  the  debates  of  both 
houses,  and  he  has  left  many  records  of  his  personal 
experience  of  the  power  and  effect  of  the  Great  Commoner's 
speeches.  Some,  it  will  hereafter  be  proved,  he  reported 
from  memory  and  made  public.  The  coarseness  of  Anti- 
Sejanus  in  his  caricature  of  Pitt's  physical  infirmities 
may  now  occasion  our  surprise  and  regret ;  but  readers 
familiar  with  the  political  controversies  and  parliamentary 
personalities  of  the  times  know  that  it  was  the  habit  of 
the  highest  debaters  and  the  lowest  writers  in  both 
houses  of  Parliament  to  use  the  most  unwarrantable  and 
vulgar  terms  of  vituperation  and  libel.  Pitt  himself  was 
no  exception ;  and  during  the  family  quarrel  with  the 
Grenvilles  he  is  believed  by  one  of  his  own  biographers 


110  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

to  have  suggested  an  attack  on  his  brother-in-law,  Lord 
Temple,  in  these  words  :  *  But  this  I  will  be  bold  to  say, 
that  had  he  (Lord  T.)  not  fastened  himself  unto  Mr.  Pitt's 
train  and  acquired  thereby  such  an  interest  in  that  great 
man,  he  might  have  crept  out  of  life  with  as  little  notice 
as  he  crept  in ;  and  gone  off  with  no  other  degree  of 
credit,  than  that  of  adding  a  single  unit  to  the  bills  of 
mortality/  l 

But  though  Francis  would  raise  or  lower  his  own 
estimate  of  the  Great  Commoner,  as  the  policy  and 
opinions  of  the  illustrious  statesman  changed,  it  will  now 
be  seen  that  he  would  not  in  his  controversies  allow 
opponents  to  deny  the  merits  of  Pitt  or  denounce  his  old 
idol  as  a  political  impostor.  Anti-Sejanus  was  not  ill, 
and  had  not  retired  to  Bath  in  search  of  health.  He  was 
only,  chameleon-like,  changing  his  anonymous  signature. 
His  object  in  this  metamorphosis  appears  to  have  been, 
under  a  fresh  name,  to  defend  Pitt  against  the  assaults  of 
the  Rockingham  press.  Pitt  was  at  this  time  the  most 
popular  and  formidable  public  man  out  of  office,  considered 
by  the  opposition  as  a  most  necessary  ally ;  and  that 
whatever  their  differences  on  the  American  questions  he 
was  deemed  an  essential  member  of  any  new  Whig  cabinet 
whenever  the  Rockingham  administration  should  break 
down.  The  latter  party  of  course  made  the  most  of  Pitt's 
bold  and  unpopular  advocacy  of  the  rights  of  the  Trans- 
atlantic colonists,  contrasting  his  isolation  on  that  question 
with  the  different  views  of  Lord  Temple  and  Grenville. 
The  Great  Commoner  was  denounced  as  unpatriotic,  disin- 
genuous and  half  mad.  Francis  discerned  the  breach  which 
was  being  made  in  the  opposition  ranks,  and  though  occa- 

1  Thackeray's '  History  of  the  Rt.  Hon.  William  Pitt,  Earl  of  Chatham/  &c. 
3827,  vol.  ii.  p.  83,  and  this  only  a  few  weeks  before  he  had  written  a  most 
affectionate  letter  to  his  noble  brother-in-law. 


17C6]  CATO  REDIViVUS.  Ill 

sionally  having  attacked  Pitt  himself,  nevertheless  he  would 
not  allow  him  to  be  run  down  by  common  enemies.  Such 
changes  are  not  unusual  among  modern  political  writers. 
If  the  modern  press  has  been  condemning  a  particular  act 
or  special  policy  of  an  eminent  public  man,  yet,  on  dis- 
covering a  design  unjustly  to  destroy  a  general  reputation 
and  past  services,  it  will  often  forthwith  stay  its  animad- 
version on  the  particular  subject-matter  of  disagreement, 
and  will  again  uphold  the  falling  man.  Such  only  was 
the  apparent  inconsistency  of  Francis  in  his  treatment  of 
Pitt.  And  writing  under  an  assumed  name,  he  had  the 
advantage  of  not  betraying  his  identity  and  occasional 
disagreement  with  himself. 

Francis's  new  nom  deplume  was  that  of  Cato  Redivivus. 
The  wearer  of  the  mask  of  Anti-Sejanus  is  easily  detected, 
and  the  change  of  signature  fails  to  conceal  him.  The 
visor  raised  discovers  the  champion  of  Pitt.  The  day 
following  the  last  mentioned  letter  under  the  latter  name 
the  new  one  is  assumed.  The  first  of  the  series  of 
eighteen  letters  of  '  Cato  Eedivivus '  appeared  on  February 
27,  1766.  It  is  only  a  new  part  of  the  same  actor  on  the 
public  stage,  but  he  plays  his  new  character  in  the  habit 
of  his  old  one.  The  letter  opens  with  Francis's  pretences 
of  age,  his  usual  disclaimer  of  fine  writing,  and  the 
assertion  of  his  disinterestedness  as  a  voluntary  and  not  a 
paid  writer ;  and  that  he  did  not  seek  to  acquire  a  charac- 
ter or  to  establish  a  fortune  ;  asserting  '  my  reputation  is 
superior  to  the  attacks  of  the  whole  herd  of  party 
scribblers,  my  fortune  to  the  necessities,  my  philosophy 
to  the  superfluities  of  life.  But  when  the  liberty  of  the 
press,  that  just  prerogative  of  the  people,  that  great 
palladium  of  the  British  constitution,  is  prostituted  to  the 
meanest  acrimony,  scurrility,  and  contemptible  ribaldry,  to 
serve  the  infamous  and  pernicious  purposes  of  envy  the 


112  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17G6 

child  of  ambition,  and  of  detraction  the  concomitant  of 
envy,  it  cannot  but  raise  in  the  breast  of  every  honest  man 
the  utmost  indignation  against  such  foul  mouthed  ad- 
vocates for  power,  such  servile  and  corrupt  prostitutes  of 
their  pen.'  Cato  Redivivus  then  instances  the  recent 
'  virulent  invectives  and  odious  epithets  '  of  three  anony- 
mous writers  in  the  'Public  Advertiser '  against  Pitt.1  The 
letter  in  substance  is  an  able  defence  of  the  war  policy  of 
Pitt's  first  and  second  ministries,  when  the  British  arms 
were  triumphant  throughout  the  world.  He  closes  with 
an  apology  for  the  length  of  his  letter  (two  columns), 
postponing  an  answer  to  other  charges  of  the  calumniators 
for  future  communications. 

It  is  very  singular,  that  the  same  number  of  the  '  Public 
Advertiser '  contains  also  a  short  letter  signed  Atticus  ;  a 
witty  and  caustic  attack  on  the  Eockingham  ministry,  the 
members  of  which  Atticus  likens  to  the  Sea  Cats  described 
in  a  recently  published  work  on  Kamskatcha,  the  cats 
having  two  bloody  quarrels  ;  '  one  about  their  mistresses, 
which  through  jealousy  they  will  not  suffer  another  to 
come  near  ;  the  other  about  their  places,  which  they  will 
not  allow  any  other  to  come  into.'  '  Atticus '  closely  re- 
flects the  style  and  satire  of  Francis,  and,  under  the  auxi- 
liary name,  was  probably  a  pendant  to  the  article  of 
Cato  Eedivivus.  In  a  second  letter  of  March  5,  Cato 
Eedivivus  resumes  his  review  and  defence  of  Pitt.  On 
the  7th  one  of  his  old  ministerial  antagonists,  under  the 
fictitious  signature  of  '  J.  Freeman, '  congratulated  the 
readers  of  the  'Public  Advertiser'  on  the  great  gun  Anti- 
Sejanus  having  been  spiked  ;  and  that  'whether  his  journey 
to  Bath  be  real  or  pretended,  is  quite  immaterial.'  Free- 

1  Is  it  not  possible  that  Francis  in  the  last  letter  of  Anti-Sejanus  may 
have  used  his  own  offensive  expression  against  the  Great  Commoner  in  order 
not  to  be  detected  as  the  writer  of  the  Cato  Redivivus  Letters  ? 


1766]  ANTI-SE  JANUS.  113 

man  does  not  appear  at  first  to  have  identified  the  two 
signatures  as  those  of  one  individual.  On  the  10th  and 
12th  Cato  Redivivus  again  takes  the  field,  principally 
against  the  financial  policy  of  the  ministry,  and  condemning 
a  repeal  of  the  Stamp  Act.  On  the  same  day  Mr.  Anti- 
Sejanus  reappears  in  a  letter  dated  Bath,  the  6th  !  Proba- 
bly seeing  the  taunt  of  J.  Freeman,  he  desired  to  show 
that  the  intended  discontinuance  of  his  letters  under  his 
old' signature  was  no  confession  of  defeat,  and  perhaps  he 
further  wished  to  have  it  believed  that  Cato  Redivivus 
was  a  different  person.  On  the  14th  the  paper  contains 
an  amusing  monody  on  the  supposed  suicide  of  Anti- 
Sejanus,  a  verdict  being  brought  in  of  felo  de  se,  signed 
A  Juryman.  The  last  paragraph  of  this  squib  concludes  : 
4  Thus  has  it  pleased  Providence  to  remove  (or  suffered  to 
remove  himself)  from  us,  the  most  audacious  party 
scribbler  that  any  age  or  nation  ever  produced,  who 
being  himself  possessed  with  the  most  malignant  poison, 
endeavoured  to  infect  the  whole  kingdom  by  his  baneful 
influence.  Let  future  hireling  authors  profit  by  his  fate, 
and  ever  remember  the  dreadful  exit  of  Anti-Sejanus.' 
The  ministerial  defenders  were  evidently  aware  that  a  new 
and  powerful  opposition  writer  had  appeared  on  the  stage 
of  journalism. 

On  the  12th,  a  second  indignant  defence  of  Pitt  appeared 
under  his  later  signature.  In  the  latter  he  observes  that, 
'  Without  freedom  of  thought  there  can  be  no  such  thing 
as  wisdom.  Without  freedom  of  speech  in  Parliament 
there  can  be  no  such  thing  as  liberty.  Freedom  of  speech 
in  Parliament  is  the  greatest  bulwark  of  liberty,  the 
brightest  jewel  that  can  adorn  government ;  the  sacred 
privilege  of  a/r^,  and  the  symptom  as  well  as  effect  of 
a  good  government.' 

His  old  opponents,  however,  seem  to  have  suspected  the 

VOL.  I.  I 


114  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

change  of  feathers.  J.  Freeman,  on  the  15th.  in  a  defence 
of  the  ministry,  promises  an  exposure.  '  I  shall,  by  and 
by,  make  some  cursory  observations  on  the  more  than 
Protean  changes  Anti-Sejanus  has  undergone  and  the 
various  disguises  and  appearances  he  has  assumed,  as  I 
think  I  have  a  clue  which  will  trace  him  through  all  his 

o 

labyrinths.'  Cato  Redivivus,  on  the  18th,  continued  his 
defence  of  the  foreign  policy  of  Pitt,  concluding  a  masterly 
vindication  with  a  graphic  portrait  of  the  great  orator. 

His  speeches  were  not  a  summary  and  dry  representation  of  his 
meaning,  uttered  in  an  unaffecting  tone,  and  with  an  unanimating 
gesture  ;  but  they  were  orations,  and  orations  pronounced  with  all 
the  lightning  figures  and  thunder  of  an  orator.  He  made  the  most 
of  the  weight  of  all  his  sentiments,  and  the  force  of  all  his  expres- 
sions, adapting,  to  the  point  for  which  he  was  contending,  words 
which  have  the  happiest  effect  upon  the  ear,  and  were  best  suited 
to  make  his  cause  probable.  His  action  was  suited  to  his  subject, 
full  of  life,  full  of  spirit,  full  of  emotion,  yet  full  of  nature ;  as  if  he 
was  directing  an  engine,  he  applied  it  sometimes  to  severity,  some- 
times to  gentleness ;  sometimes  to  damp,  sometimes  to  delight  and 
ridicule  ;  by  all  the  methods  of  good  sense  accommodating  the  persons 
who  were  to  decide  the  affair  to  the  occasion,  by  all  the  powers  of 
eloquence  inclining  them  to  the  cause  he  espoused.  His  sentiments 
appeared  to  be  nature,  his  description  a  picture,  and  his  language 
music.  All  the  arguments  of  his  opponents  seemed  to  be  made  up 
of  plausibility  and  imposition,  and  faded  away  like  artificial  lights 
before  the  sun.  Carrying  away  the  understanding  by  the  weight  of 
conviction,  he  was  a  mighty  torrent  that  pours  along  with  a  re- 
sistless flood,  and  sweeps  all  things  in  its  course. 

'  Cato  Redivivus '  continued  his  occasional  letters ;  but 
on  April  3,  Anti-Sejanus  again  appears  on  the  boards, 
dating  his  letter  from  Bath,  after  nearly  a  month's  silence, 
during  which  interval  he  has  been  almost  daily  abused. 
It  was  his  last  letter  under  that  first  signature,  farther 
vindicating  Pitt,  and  eulogising  him  for  his  opposition 
to  general  warrants.  In  the  last  paragraph  he  facetiously 
says  he  shall  leave  Bath  '  in  a  few  days,'  when  the 


1766]  FALL  OF  THE  EOCKlNGHAM   CABINET.  Il5 

'  Public  Advertiser'  would  find  him  to  be  a  more  frequent 
correspondent  than  he  had  been  for  some  weeks  past. 
On  the  4th,  Cato  Eedivivus  accordingly  resumed  his  pen. 
The  following  day  the  paper  inserted  a  poetical  squib 
by  Anti-Sejanus  Secundus  against  the  ministerial  writers 
for  profane  abuse  of  a  sacred  name.  It  had  not  been 
acknowledged,  and  therefore  it  was  probably  enclosed  in 
the  cover  of  Cato  Redivivus. 

In  the  thirteenth  letter  of  Cato  Eedivivus,  April  26, 
in  answer  to  one  of  his  opponents,  he  again  alluded  to 
Pitt's  eloquence :  '  Not  even  the  eloquence  of  the  Great 
Commoner  could  seduce  me  from  these  principles,  though 
I  acknowledge  that  his  eloquence  may  not  improperly 
be  compared  to  lightning  :  it  is  divinely  beautiful,  and 
yet  powerfully  strong  ;  it  gilds  and  adorns  everything  it 
shines  upon,  but  yet  generally  strikes  down  everything 
that  opposes  it.' 

All  his  old  opponents  being  silenced,  a  sixteenth  letter, 
June  16,  was  intended  to  conclude  his  review  of  Pitt  in 
the  character  of  a  statesman  ;  but  a  paper  appearing  in 
the  'North  Briton '  against  his  hero,  Cato  Eedivivus  resumed 
his  pen  in  some  further  articles  in  reply  to  the  new 
antagonist.  A  final  and  twentieth  letter,  July  21,  con- 
cluded the  series,  although  its  postscript  promised  a  con- 
tinuation on  the  following  Monday,  the  28th.  In  the 
meantime,  however,  a  public  event  happened  equally 
astounding  and  unforeseen.  Cato  Eedivivus  appears  sub- 
sequently to  his  letter  to  have  had  some  inkling  of  the  un- 
looked  for  step  about  to  be  taken  by  the  Great  Commoner. 
For  a  fortnight  past,  indeed,  it  had  been  whispered  to  all 
politicians  behind  the  scenes  that  the  days  of  the  Eocking- 
ham  cabinet  were  numbered,  and  that  the  King  was  in 
secret  communication  with  the  leaders  of  the  opposition  for 
'  packing '  a  new  administration.  But  no  man  had  dreamed 

I  2 


116  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1700 

that  Pitt  would  become  a  political  dummy  in  any  cabinet ; 
much  less  that  he  would  accept  the  Privy  Seal  and  a  peerage. 
On  Saturday,  July  27,  1766,  the  'Public  Advertiser'  con- 
tained the  following  paragraph  in  its  notes  to  correspond- 
ents :  '  We  are  much  obliged  to  Cato  Redivivus  for  his 
timely  notice,  as  otherwise  we  might  have  been  under  some 
embarrassment.'  Doubtless  this '  notice '  was  the  suspension 
by  Cato  Kedivivus  of  his  promised  further  defence  of  the 
Commoner.  It  is  curious  how  late  and  scanty  was  the  news 
of  the  press  on  coming  ministerial  changes.  The  first  an- 
nouncement of  the  '  shakiness  '  of  the  ill-fated  administra- 
tion in  the  '  Public  Advertiser'  was  on  January  14,  when 
that  journal  stated  it  was  c  assured '  that '  the  long  talked 
of  changes  were  at  length  settled  •;'  and  the  list  of  the  prin- 
cipal succeeding  ministers  was  very  correctly  given  as  after- 
wards formed  :  viz.  Mr.  Pitt,  Lord  Privy  Seal,  in  the  room 
of  the  Duke  of  Newcastle  ;  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  First  Lord 
of  the  Treasury,  vice  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham ;  the 
Hon.  Charles  Townsend,  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer, 
vice  Mr.  Dowdeswell ;  Lord  Shelburne,  Secretary  of  State 
for  the  Southern  Department,  vice  the  Duke  of  Richmond ; 
the  Hon.  John  Grenville,  Paymaster-General  of  the  Forces, 
vice  the  Hon.  Charles  Townsend ;  the  Hon.  Mr.  Conway 
continuing  Secretary  of  State  for  the  Northern  Depart- 
ment ;  '  besides  other  lesser  changes.'  The  l  Public 
Advertiser'  of  the  next  day  only  contained  the  follow- 
ing reference  to  these  changes,  viz. — '  We  are  assured 
that  Mr.  Pitt  has  accepted  of  a  peerage,  and  that  he 
will  be  created  Earl  of  Bath.'1  On  the  succeeding  day 
the  same  journal  contradicted  itself,  as  follows:  'There 
is  no  necessity  for  the  Lord  Privy  Seal  to  be  a  peer  of 
Great  Britain,  as  has  been  reported,  which  suggestion  is 

1  This   must  have  been  merely  a  satirical  insinuation,  comparing  his 
conduct  to  that  of  Pulteney. 


1766]  PITT.   BECOMES  LORD  CHATHAM.  117 

supposed  to  have  occasioned  the  report  of  Mr.  Pitt  being 
to  be  made  a  peer ;  for  no  one  can  suppose  that  Mr. 
Pitt  could  expect  to  preserve  his  popularity  and  power 
to  serve  his  country  so  effectually  in  the  House  of  Lords, 
as  he  can  in  the  House  of  Commons,  unless  he  means  to 
act  like  Lord  Bath.'  Next  day,  the  28th,  the  same 
journal  has  a  further  paragraph  :  '  We  are  assured  that 
Mr.  Pitt,  though  he  be  made  Lord  Privy  Seal,  will  not 
accept  of  a  peerage?  But  this  paragraph  was  followed 
by  another  :  '  It  is  said  that  the  reason  of  the  post  of  Lord 
Privy  Seal  being  pitched  upon  for  Mr.  Pitt,  in  preference 
to  that  of  Secretary  of  State,  was,  that  the  former  does 
not  make  him  responsible  for  measures  which  he  may 
not  be  allowed  to  guide,  this  high  and  lucrative  office 
being  almost  a  sinecure  one  ;  however,  his  holding  any  post 
in  the  administration  will  be  sufficient  to  gain  it  respect 
both  at  home  and  abroad,  and  to  give  it  stability  and 
importance.'  Some  minor  paragraphs  in  the  same  number 
announced  that  Lord  Eyttleton  would  '  not  succeed  to  any 
share  of  the  administration  ;'  that  there  would  be  '  some 
material  changes  in  the  first  civil  offices  in  Scotland  ;'  and 
that '  the  intended  changes  in  the  ministry  will  occasion 
a  very  early  meeting  of  parliament.'  In  the  'Public 
Advertiser '  of  the  31st,  the  actual  appointment  of  Lord 
Camden  to  the  Great  Seal  was  announced,  and  some 
probable  minor  changes  not  before  rumoured  ;  but  no 
mention  was  made  of  Mr.  Pitt's  eventual  office.  At  last 
it  became  public  that  the  '  Great  Commoner '  had  accepted 
the  '  side-place '  of  Privy  Seal,  and  a  peerage. 

As  a  public  writer,  Francis  appears  to  have  been  tem- 
porarily paralysed  by  the  Great  Commoner's  subsidence 
into  the  Upper  House  of  Parliament.  No  contemporary 
political  correspondence  by  Francis  or  his  friends  has  been 
discovered;  but  after  chapters  will  show  his  rnaturer 


113  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

judgment  on  Chatham's  acceptance  at  this  juncture 
of  the  peerage  and  pension.  He  vehemently  con- 
demned, and  was  never  reconciled  to,  that  great  states- 
man's conduct  in  1766.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that 
these  sincere  and  natural  feelings  will  account  for  the 
occasional  withering  sarcasm  and  extreme  abuse  which 
Francis  afterwards,  and  apparently  inconsistently,  lavished 
on  his  lordship — in  reality  such  alternate  attacks  and 
laudations  being  not  so  incongruous.  It  will  be  soon 
observed  that  after  Chatham's  retirement  from  his  ignoble 
position  in  the  cabinet — a  ministry  whose  American 
policy  was  in  diametrical  opposition  to  that  of  William 
Pitt — Francis's  early  admiration  of  his  first  idol  flowed 
again,  after  it  had  thus  ebbed  so  low.  Substantially,  it 
was  not  the  fickleness  of  Francis,  but  the  devious  changes 
of  the  minister,  which  occasioned  Francis's  alternate 
approval  and  condemnation  of  Chatham.  When  that 
powerful  public  man  resumed  his  position  and  again 
headed  the  popular  cause,  his  fonrter  eulogist  returned  to 
his  earlier  predilection,  and  his  homage  towards  his 
juvenile  idol.  Moreover,  political  writers  often  use  public 
men  for  the  occasion  of  the  day.  In  these  changes 
Francis  was  not  single.  Many  party  and  personal  allies  of 
Lord  Chatham  were  alike  true  to  themselves;  at  times  his 
followers,  at  other  periods  in  opposition  to  the  noble  lord. 
Thus,  Chatham's  nearest  relatives  and  oldest  former  col- 
leagues in  office  honestly  stood  aloof  or  severed  from 
him,  and  sometimes  when  he  most  sought  and  needed 
their  aid. 

Down  to  the  close  of  this  year,  1766,  Francis's  papers 
and  the  file  of  the '  Public  Advertiser  '  afford  little  material 
certain  evidence  of  a  continuation  of  his  contributions  to 
the  political  press.  But  he  was  not  altogether  idle.  In  one 
of  his  folio  volumes  of  manuscript  he  has  inserted,  under 


1766]  LETTER  ON  AFFAIRS  OF   PORTUGAL.  119 

the  date  of  May,  1766,-  a  long  and  able  paper  on  the 
political  and  commercial  relations  of  England  and  Por- 
tugal. It  occupies  twenty- nine  closely  written  pages.  This 
is  followed  by  a  letter  of  thirty-three  folio  pages  addressed 
to  the  Duke  of  Richmond.  At  this  time  his  grace  was 
temporarily  one  of  the  principal  secretaries  of  state,  and 
Francis  sent  his  paper  for  his  grace's  enlightenment  and 
consideration.  But  the  fall  of  the  Eockingham  cabinet 
occurring  in  August,  the  duke  returned  it  unused,  and 
with  the  following  note  :— 

The  Duke  of  Richmond  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  Francis. 
He  returns  him  his  observations  on  the  state  and  trade  of  Portugal, 
which  he  has  read  with  great  attention  and  pleasure.  And  although 
the  Duke  of  Richmond  has  not  now  the  care  of  these  affairs  under 
his  directions,  he  shall  be  very  happy  at  his  return  from  France 
(where  he  is  going  for  a  few  months)  to  see  Mr.  Francis,  and  to 
learn  from  him  more  facts  in  regard  to  Portugal,  of  which  it  appears 
Mr.  Francis  has  so  perfect  a  knowledge. 

Whitehall,  August  2,  1766. 

There  is  a  circumstance  extremely  curious  in  relation  to 
Francis's  communication  and  the  Duke  of  Eichmond's  ac- 
knowledgment and  return  of  it  on  August  2.  It  will  be 
observed  by  the  note  of  his  grace  that  Lord  Kinnoul's 
secretary's  laborious  and  valuable  papers  remained  unac- 
knowledged till  the  duke  was  in  August  out  of  office — an 
interval  probably  between  its  receipt  and  return  of  two 
months  or  more.  Now  probably  the  ex-minister's  politeness 
was  quickened  by  a  letter  which  appeared  in  the  '  Public 
Advertiser  '  of  August  1,  under  the  signature  of  Tantum — 
given,  as  usual  with  Francis's  letters  to  that  journal,  the  first 
place  in  its  correspondence.  It  occupies  a  column  and  a 
half  of  space.1  The  substance  is  a  sarcastic  indignant 

1  The  motto  is  from  Juvenal : — 

Virtutem  tollimua  ipsam, 

Prsemia  si  tollas. 


120  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

protest  against  the  discouragement  of  the  under  grades 
of  the  English  public  civil  service.  It  alludes  to  the 
constant  dissolutions  of  cabinets  and  to  the  cabals  of  the 
great  families,  changes  seldom  or  never  boding  any  good 
to  the  nation,  because  promotions  of  the  really  working 
men  are  matters  of  favour — many  of  no  talent  or  desert 
being  placed  over  the  heads  of  others  better  entitled 
to  advancement.  The  writer  then  instances  Portugal, 
notwithstanding  its  ill-government  and  the  inferiority 
of  the  people,  as  a  country  in  which  official  ability  and 
industry  were  always  recognised  and  rewarded ;  and  says 
that  Portuguese  ministers  even  acknowledged  the  letters, 
and  adopted  the  plans  of  inferior  men  of  public  depart- 
ments, and  never  appropriated  'another  man's  labour  and 
ingenuity,  leaving  him  to  starve  for  his  pains.'  Tantum 
admits  that  although  there  is  '  no  liberty  of  the  press  and 
very  little  liberty  of  the  tongue  in  Portugal,'  yet  men  of 
real  deserts  and  large  families  are  not  left  to  starve  in  the 
Lisbon  public  offices  and  to  be  lost  to  the  world,'  while  '  a 
herd  of  worthless  insignificant  creatures  fill  their  places.' 
Tantum  further  archly  calls  public  attention  to  a  custom 
in  Portugal  worthy  of  imitation,  where  the  sovereign 
himself  received  all  private  communications  from  his  sub- 
jects, and  all  plans  for  the  advantage  of  the  nation,  and 
all  representations  by  public  officers  or  others  of  their  past 
services  and  claims  to  advancement.  No  Portuguese 
minister,  he  says, '  dares  to  throw  papers  aside  with  a  con- 
temptuous neglect.'  He  adds  that  after  a  first  address  to 
the  king  every  individual '  sees  his  name  stuck  up  in  the 
great  hall  of  the  royal  palace,  with  that  of  the  particular 
minister  subjoined,  to  whom  he  is  to  apply  for  the  de- 
spatch of  his  business,  and  has  the  satisfaction  of  finding 
it  brought  to  a  short  issue.'  Probably  Francis  had  unsuc- 
cessfully applied  to  the  Duke  for  the  return  of  his  papers ; 


1766]  LETTER  ON  AFFAIRS   OF  PORTUGAL.  121 

and  nothing  could  have  been  more  mortifying  to  such  amind 
than  that  his  experience  and  meritorious  suggestion  for 
his  country's  benefit  (the  labour  probably  of  many  nights) 
should  not  only  have  been  even  unacknowledged  but 
might  probably  pass  unknown  to  the  succeeding  ministry. 
The  pungent  letter  of  Tantum,  however,  palpably  gained 
its  object.  The  Duke  of  Richmond,  by  his  note  on  the 
following  day,  made  a  late  amende  honorable  so  far  as 
concerned  good  breeding  at  least ;  and  within  twenty-four 
hours  his  grace  returned  the*  papers  of  the  wounded  War 
Office  clerk,  with  empty  compliments,  but  with  a  polite 
expression  of  a  desire  to  make  his  future  acquaintance. 
The  Duke's  oversight  may  have  been  unintentional. 
Charles,  the  third  Duke  of  Richmond,  who  in  after 
life  was  personally  known  to  Francis,  was  a  nobleman 
esteemed  in  private  life,  of  polite  and  distinguished 
manners,  and  of  independent  and  patriotic  principles. 
Although  he  carried  the  sceptre  with  the  dove  at  the 
coronation  of  George  III.,  his  grace  never  lent  himself 
to  the  intrigues  of  the  court.  His  ultra  radical  creed  of 
parliamentary  reform,  it  is  well  known,  became  far  in 
advance  of  the  maturer  faith  of  Francis. 

Two  of  Woodfall's  notices  to  correspondents  in.  this 
week  indicate  the  telegraph  of  communications  to  Francis. 
A  severe  and  caustic  parody — a  parallel  of  Pulteney  on 
his  acceptance  of  the  Earldom  of  Bath  with  Pitt  sinking 
into  the  Earldom  of  Chatham — appeared  in  the  '  Public 
Advertiser '  of  August  2.  It  was  entitled,  '  A  Letter 
from  the  Shades  ; '  superscribed,  '  From  the  Habitations  of 
Spirits  separated  from  terrestrial  Bodies,  July  29.'  This 
jeu  $  esprit  is  signed  '  William  Pulteney.  Called  Earl  of 
Bath,  when  on  Earth.'  It  had,  as  usual,  la  premiere  place 
in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  correspondence,  and  had  not 
been  acknowledged  the  previous  day  ;  but  on  publication 


122  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1706 

Woodfall  inserted  the  following  notice :  '  To  retain  and 
oblige  an  old  and  steady  correspondent,  he  will  find  we 
have  departed  from  our  general  rule,  by  inserting  his  fa- 
vour.' The  rule  of  the  editor  was  never  to  publish  com- 
munications the  morning  following  their  receipt.  They 
had  necessarily  to  be  read,  for  the  security  of  the  journal 
from  state  prosecution.  The  parody  is  a  cutting  satire, 
after  the  usual  manner  of  Francis,  on  the  fall  of  the  Great 
Commoner.  The  identity  of  the  writer  is  of  course  not 
certain,  but  it  may  be  pronounced  as  more  than  probable.1 
On  the  4th,  under  the  head  of '  Intelligence  Extraordinary,' 
the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  inserted  from  '  a  correspondent, 
who  has  the  wonderful  faculty  of  knowing  what  is  in 
embryo,'  a  long  extract  by  anticipation  of  Lord  Chatham's 
well-known  letter  to  Beckford,  exculpatory  of  his  place 
and  title.  On  the  13th,  the  'Public  Advertiser'  con- 
tained another  special  notice :  *  We  are  glad  to  recognise 
the  handwriting  of  an  old  correspondent  in  a  letter  from 
Isleworth,  and  hope  as  he  has  resumed  the  pen  we  shah1 
frequently  hear  from  him.'  Francis  had  an  old  friend 
and  schoolfellow  of  fortune,  Mr.  David  Godfrey,  resident 
at  Isle  worth,  near  London,  whom  he  occasionally  visited ; 
but  no  particular  communication  can  be  identified,  unless 
it  is  one  of  four  epigrams  against  Chatham.  But,  on 
August  28,  Woodfall  acknowledged  the  receipt  of  two 
letters  addressed  to  Lord  Chatham,  signed  A.  B.,  promis- 
ing to  insert  the  first  on  the  following  day,  and  the  second 
on  the  Monday  or  Tuesday  succeeding,  *  according  to 
the  writer's  request.'  No  other  writer  appears  to  have 
been  treated  with  so  much  deference.  The  editor  also 
requested  the  author  will  inform  him,  '  how  a  line  may 
come  to  his  hands.'  Not  only  was  such  a  favour  unusual, 

1  A  second  letter,  under  the  same  designation,  also  appeared  in  the  '  Public 
Advertiser '  of  August  0,  1766. 


1766]  ATTACKS  ON  LOKD  CHATHAM.  123 

but  the  spirit  of  the  two  letters  against  the  new  peer  bear 
the  impress  of  the  pen  of  Francis.  It  is,  however,  proper 
to  state  that  the  same  initials  of  correspondents  in  the '  Pub- 
lic Advertiser '  and  several  contemporary  journals  were 
not  uncommon,  and  that  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  contained 
several  letters  on  different  topics  at  this  period  so  signed, 
all  of  which  could  not  be  the  production  of  Francis. 

The  fourth  and  last  letter  to  Lord  Chatham  under  the 
signature  of  A.  B.1  also  indicates  its  origin ;  containing 
advice  that  his  lordship,  in  the  disposition  of  the  govern- 
ment  patronage,  would  reward   personal  merit  by  the 
promotion  of  the  most  deserving  officers  in  each  depart- 
ment, and  so  promote  the  public  welfare.     On  the  day  of 
publication  of  this  last  letter,  Woodfall  notices  in  a  para- 
graph at  the  end  of  the  day's  correspondence,  '  An  old 
correspondent  will  observe  his  request  complied  with  in 
this  day's  paper.'     Utis  also  is  almost  certainly  another 
signature  of  Francis.     The  same  number  of  the  '  Public 
Advertiser/  September  24,  contains  a  short  and  pithy 
letter  in  reply  to  another  correspondent  Syndic,  advo- 
cating the  promotion  of  '  episcopising  in  our  American 
colonies.'    The  '  Utis '  letter  is  a  satire  on  Church  and  State 
co-establishments.     He  warns  Syndic  against  the  liberties 
and  privileges  of  a  state  priesthood  by  the  example  of  the 
.  Jesuits.     D'Alembert's  History  of  the  Order  of  Jesus  is 
cited  (a  volume  which  Francis  possessed  with  the  Paris 
imprint  of  1766),  and  Suarez  and  four  other  Jesuit  authors 
are  quoted  for  the  sanction  of  immoral  acts — ironically 
lauding  the  '  under- written  Jesuits,  to  whom  the  world  is 
indebted  for  these  and  many  other  admirable  improve- 
ments in  morals,  and  for  widening  the  way  to  Heaven, 
which  a  book  called  the  Gospel  had  most  unconscionably 
narrowed.'     Syndic  having  replied  by  a  further  argument 
1  The  four  are  by  one  writer,  being  respectively  numbered  1,  2,  3,  4. 


124  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

really  in  favour  of  a  forced  religious  conformity  or  union, 
Utis,  in  a  second  letter,1  again  cauterises  his  opponent. 
This  second  letter  of  Utis  betrays  the  associations  of 
Francis.  It  ridicules  the  chimera  of  any  State  plan  of 
conformity  by  possibility  preventing  honest  and  harmless 
differences  of  religious  opinion ;  though  Utis  contends 
that  if  Christians  would  only  agree  to  differ,  they  would 
exhibit  a  much  more  genuine  faith  than  they  commonly 
do  in  worldly  practice.  He  cites  an  opposite  example  of 
the  Portuguese  Jesuits  in  Paraguay — he  contends  that 
Louis  XIV.  exemplified  his  plan  for  a  like  '  union  in 
religious  matters '  by  the  infamous  Edict  of  Nantes — 
that  Louis's  consciencemaker,  Father  La  Chaise,  and  Cole- 
man,  the  Duke  of  York's  secretary,  influenced  our  James 
II.  to  attempt  the  same  trick,  which  Protestant  Britons 
defeated  by  '  turning  '  that  sovereign  '  out ; '  and  that  the 
English  Tories  when  uppermost  in  Queen  Anne's  reign 
brought  in  the  Conventicle,  Occasional,  and  Schism  Acts 
'  with  the  mobbing  and  destruction  of  Dissenters'  places 
of  worship,  for  which  those  times  were  so  famous.'  His 
brief  but  admirable  letter  thus  ends  :  '  And  thus  it  is  that 
hypocrites  and  men — selfish  politicians  who  have  no 
honesty  or  conscience  of  their  own,  and  are  desirous  to 
extinguish  the  light  of  both  in  others — have  been,  in  all 
ages,  the  great  declaimers  for  and  promoters  of  uniformity 
and  union  in  religious  matters.' 

One  other  letter  is  noticeable  in  the  same  journal  of 
October  25,  as  bearing  the  signature  of  Atticus.  It  might 
be  mistaken  for  a  eulogy  on  Lord  Chatham ;  but  it  is  in 
fact  a  sarcastic  citation  of  a  former  speech  of  the  '  illus- 
trious '  minister,  on  the  American  Stamp  Act,  when  Pitt 
was  in  opposition,  and  when  the  Great  Commoner  had 
rebuked  the  Commons  for  their  modesty  towards  ministers, 

1  '  Public  Advertiser,'  October  26,  1766. 


1766]  ATTACKS  ON  LORD  CHATHAM.  125 

Pitt  having  exhorted  members  4  to  get  the  better  of  this 
modesty,'  or  that '  the  collective  body  may  begin  to  abate 
of  its  respect  for  the  representatives.'  The  point  of  Atticus 
is,  his  '  concern '  to  remark  that  '  the  collective  body  of 
the  nation  have  begun  already  not  only  to  abate,  but  even 
to  renounce,  all  its  respect  for  their  representatives,  having 
been  too  long  and  too  often  convinced  of  their  corrup- 
tion, pusillanimity,  and  dependence  on  ministers.' l  This 
speech  Francis  may  probably  have  heard,  and  the  par- 
ticular words  may  be  quoted. 

Such  are  the  fair  circumstantial  evidences  for  the  early 
contributions  of  Francis  to  the  public  press.  As  in  the 
instance  of  his  Candor  pamphlets,  they  are  all  on  the 
side  of  civil  liberty,  constitutional  law,  and  freedom  of 
religious  thought  and  profession.  They  are,  with  reference 
to  the  political  controversies  of  the  times,  singularly  free 
from  personalities  and  coarseness,  even  though  lavish  of 
sarcastic  irony  and  wit.  Nor  is  there  discernible  a  single 
instance  of  any  infidelity  in  his  honourable  duties  as  a  con- 
fidential clerk  in  the  War  Office.  The  examples  have  not 
been  partially  cited  ;  and  several  other  letters  variously 
signed,  apparently  in  aid  of  his  principal  newspaper 
controversies,  have  not  been  extracted,  because  they  do 
not  afford  adequate  proofs  of  the  identity  of  authorship. 
His  sensible  ideas  on  the  advent  of  the  new  and  motley 
Chatham  ministry  appear  to  have  been  to  tolerate  that  ad- 
ministration till  its  acts  proclaimed  its  character  and  spirit ; 
at  the  same  time  to  mark  Lord  Chatham's  inconsistencies 
and  errors.  But  when  he  saw  the  Great  Commoner  and  the 
Lord  Chancellor  Camden  completely  stultify  their  former 
American  policy  by  remaining  passive  and  consenting 

Sir  William  Draper  at  this  early  time  was  a  contributor  to  the  '  Public 
Advertiser,'  which  on  the  previous  day  (Oct.  24)  contained  a  letter  under 
the  initials  W.  D.  on  Indian  military  affairs. 


126  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

members  of  a  cabinet  reversal  of  that  policy,  and  when  by 
an  unconstitutional  order  in  council  they  prohibited  the 
exportation  of  grain,  and   violated   recent  Acts  of  Par- 
liament, Francis  was  honestly  indignant  and  ashamed  of 
his   former   idolatry   of  Pitt.      His  passions  must  have 
boiled  over  as  he  heard  Lord  Mansfield  chastise  the  ex- 
Lord  Chancellor  Northington  (Chatham's  President  of  the 
Council),  and  demonstrate  in  the  Upper  House  that  the 
dispensing  power  of  the  Crown  was  unconstitutional,  and 
against  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Bill  of  rights.1   Francis 
possessed  all  the  principal  pamphlets  on  this  question, 
having  significantly  noted  on  some  of  them  his  indignant 
sense  of  the  illegality  of-  the  order  in  council,  and  the 
danger  of  the  precedent.     Chatham,  though  approving 
by   letter  this  indefensible  measure,  had  the  excuse  of 
absence  from  the  cabinet  through   illness.      But  Lord 
Camden's  concurrence  in  and  strange  justification  of  the 
council  order  as  '  at  most  but  a  forty  days'  tyranny '  was  a 
reading  of  the  British  constitution  which  such  a  mind  as 
that  of  Francis  scorned,  and  language  the  utterance  of 
which  he  could  scarcely  have  believed,  unless  present  in 
the  Lords  a  listener  to  the  Lord  Chancellor's  inadvertent 
but  disgraceful  speech.     Lord  Campbell  is  at  a  loss,  in 
his  life  of  this  eminent  judge,  to  account  for  conduct  re- 
specting so  plain  a  principle  of  constitutional  law ;  nor 
was  it  excused,  but  aggravated,  when  Lord  Camden,  after 
the  resignation  of  the  Great  Seal,  made  the  confession 
that  in  the  cabinet  he  had  long  beheld  with  silent  indigna- 
tion the  arbitrary  measures  of  ministers,  and  had  often 
'  drooped  and  held  down  his  head  in  council,  and  disap- 
proved by  my  looks  those  steps  which  I  knew  my  avowed 
opposition  could  not  prevent.'     Lord  Mansfield's  masterly 

1  16  Parl.  Hist.  245-312.     Lord  Campbell's  '  Life  of  Lord  Northington/ 
vol.  v.  p.  21. 


1766]  THE  'EMBARGO'  PROCLAMATION.  127 

speech  against  ministers  on  this  order  in  Council  was 
published  by  Almon ;  by  whom  reported  is  unknown. 
Francis  possessed  a  copy  of  the  printed  speech,  on  the  title 
page  of  which  he  has  written  (as  the  title  does  not  mention 
the  name  of  the  peer  who  delivered  it),  '  By  Lord  Mansfield 
against  Lord  Camden.'  He  corrected  in  this  copy  some 
typographical  and  other  errors,  and  he  may  have  been  the 
reporter,  Almon  being  a  very  improbable  publisher  for 
Lord  Mansfield's  own  selection.  The  fly-leaf  in  this 
copy  opposite  the  title 1  also  contains  a  characteristic  note 
in  the  handwriting  of  Francis :  '  Here  he  (Lord  Mans- 
field) had  his  revenge  against  Chatham  and  Camden. 
The  latter  was  a  sniveling 2  lawyer,  and  a  poor  creature 
at  heart.  He  would  make  the  proclamation  lawful,  and 
Chatham  was  forced  to  follow  him  against  his  character, 
temper,  and  genius.'  In  this  stretch  of  the  prerogative, 
Lord  Chatham  was  in  truth  equally  culpable,  because  he 
penned  his  approval  of  the  order  before  the  measure  was 
proposed  to  the  cabinet.  Still  less  could  Francis  tolerate 
the  colonial  policy  of  this  most  disreputable  ministry. 
His  own  opinions,  it  has  been  stated,  were  in  favour  of  the 
legal  right  of  the  mother  country  to  tax  the  colonies. 
But  his  common  sense  disapproved  of  the  absurd  repeal  of 
the  Stamp  Act,  and  the  imposition  of  the  equally  obnoxious 
tea  tax,  and  the  duties  on  imported  goods.  It  was  only 
a  short  period  before,  in  1766,  that  Pitt  had  received  the 
thanks  of  the  Massachusetts  House  of  Eepresentatives ; 
and  that  a  colossal  statue  of  the  Great  Commoner  in  a 
Ciceronian  character  and  habiliment  was  erected  in 
Charlestown,  South  Carolina,  with  an  inscription  on  the 

1  The  title  is  'A  Speech  on  behalf  of  the  Constitution  against  the  Suspend- 
ing and  Dispensing  Prerogative/  &c.     Almon,  London,  1767.  8vo.  pp.  145. 

2  The  term  '  snivelling  '  is  used  by  our  best  writers — Dryden,  Swift,  and 
Cowper  among  others.  Of  Teutonic  derivation,  it  has  a  signification  different 
from  the  vulgar  use  of  the  appellative. 


128  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

pedestal '  in  grateful  memory  of  his  services'  in  l  defend- 
ing the  freedom  of  America.'  The  after  acts  of  Lord 
Chatham's  cabinet  in  truth  produced  the  War  of  Inde- 
pendence. A  mother  country  right  may  exist  which  at 
certain  periods  of  the  growth  of  a  colony  ought  not  to 
be  enforced.  Thus  are  great  statesmen  occasionally  at 
variance  with  themselves  in  the  advocacy  of  antagonistic 
principles  and  opposite  policies.  Biographers  commonly 
either  keep  the  errors  of  their  subjects  in  the  background, 
or,  magnifying  errors,  overlook  comparative  superior 
merits,  in  their  lives  of  public  men. 

This  divergence  from  the  subject  of  the  personal  life  of 
Francis  is  justified  by  the  necessity  of  showing  all  the  true 
bearings  and  ultimate  formation  of  his  political  opinions, 
and  as  a  vindication  of  his  changing  estimates  of  the  cha- 
racters and  acts  of  the  leading  public  men  of  the  times.  He 
had  no  intimate  relations  with  any  of  the  ministers  or  mem- 
bers of  the  opposition  of  the  period,  but  occasionally  met 
many  public  men  and  literary  characters  at  the  town  house 
of  Mr.  Calcraft ;  and  through  his  father  he  gained  much 
knowledge  of  the  retrospective  history  and  current  politics 
of  the  Whigs  and  the  4  Court  Party.'  It  is  clear  that  for 
three  years  he  had  maintained  a  strict  incognito  in  his 
own  contributions  to  the  press,  as  his  domestic  and 
other  correspondence  with  relatives  and  family  friends 
proves  ;  politics  never  being  a  topic.  His  official  position 
was  doubtless  one  principal  motive  for  his  keeping  his 
opinions  and  his  writing  a  profound  secret  within  his  own 
breast.  And  excepting  his  brother-in-law,  Alexander 
Mackrabie,  and  his  schoolfellow  Godfrey,  Philip  Kosen- 
hagen  and  Mr.  David  Gravier,  and  one  of  the  Fitzpatrick 
family  in  the  Custom  House,  he  does  not  appear  to  have 
had  any  intimate  associates  interested  in  politics.  But  he 
was  a  frequenter  of  coffee-houses,  at  that  time  the  party 


17G6]  FAMILY  AFFAIRS.  129 

clubs  of  London.  The  latter  fact  his  familiar  letters  and 
papers  prove.  His  occasional  tours  in  the  country  were 
then  chiefly  confined  to  Isleworth,  the  residence  of 
Godfrey,  and  to  Fulham  where  Mrs.  Francis's  parents 
resided.  And  he  annually  or  oftener  visited  his  father 
and  Mr.  Calcraft,  the  country  seat  of  the  latter  being  at 
Ingress  in  the  county  of  Kent.  It  is  a  tradition  in  his 
family  that  he  first  visited  Paris  in  1766,  but  there  is  no 
epistolary  record  or  proof  of  the  fact.1  But  it  is  not  im- 
probable, as  his  library  contained  several  French  books 
bearing  the  imprint  of  that  year  ;  and  he  wrote  to  Gravier, 
promising  to  join  him  in  that  metropolis  of  the  Continent, 
if  he  could  contrive  an  office  furlough.  By  the  letters,  how- 
ever, of  Gravier  which  Francis  has  preserved,  the  latter 
would  appear  certainly  not  to  have  kept  his  provisional 
engagement.  His  private  volume  of  letters  from  friends 
in  this  year,  and  the  War  Office  records  showing  his 
handwriting,  except  in  a  few  days  of  interval,  would  lead 
to  the  conclusion  that  he  had  not  been  in  Paris  this  year  ; 
nor  is  there  any  evidence  that  he  had  visited  any  other 
countries  up  to  this  time  since  his  return  from  Lisbon  in 
1760. 

In  1766,  Mrs.  Francis  gave  birth  to  a  third  child,  their 
daughter  Harriet,  born  on, February  19.  Thus  the  cares 
and  expenses  of  an  infant  and  increasing  family  came  fast 
upon  him  ;  and  no  marvel  that  he  should  anxiously  desire 
an  increase  of  means  for  their  support,  together  with  a 
growing  disappointment  that  his  conscious  talents  should 
so  long  be  kept  under  a  bushel."  In  one  of  Gravier's 
letters  to  him  from  the  ship  Essex  in  the  Downs,  July  16, 
1766,  his  friend  writes  to  him  a  singular  prediction  of 

1  Lady  Francis,  who  draws  romantic  pictures  of  her  husband's  personal 
beauty,  says  that  he  was  called  there  '  Le  Bel  Anglais.' 
VOL.  I.  K 


130  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1766 

Francis's  future  rise  in  life  :  '  As  to  the  mutations  in  the 
ministry,  I  am  sure  you  are  too  much  a  philosopher  to 
let  them  affect  you.  Leave  to  fate  the  care  of  your  future 
fortune  and  enjoy  the  present  in  perfection.  Think  riot 
that  merit  like  yours  was  ever  calculated  to  be  buried,  or 

to  shine  according  to  the  whim  of  a  set  of in  place 

(Lord  B is  excepted).    No,  my  friend ;  inspired  with 

the  spirit  of  prophecy,  I  tell  you  you  will  never  have 
occasion  to  murmur  at  your  destiny.'  Unfortunately 
every  man  who  makes  a  prediction  has  not  the  power  to 
make  it  true.  Godfrey,1  although  rich,  was  a  man  of  no 
political  influence.  He  was,  however,  the  godfather  of 
Francis's  third  daughter  Harriet.  There  is  often  an 
uncertainty  in  the  time  of  the  accomplishment  of  pro- 
phecies. Francis  had  been  four  years  in  his  secondary 
clerkship  of  the  War  Office,  and  it  will  be  hereafter  shown 
that  he  continued  in  the  same  subordinate,  ill-recompensed 
employment  for  eight  years  longer,  his  wife  biennially 
presenting  him  an  increase  of  their  family,  to  1772.  But 
notwithstanding  an  excitable,  sensitive,  and  occasionally 
a  morbid  temperament,  his  severe  industry  and  dominant 
resolution  to  labour  for  his  proper  place  in  life  never 
failed. 

ANTI-SEJANUS. 

I  have  thought  it  best  to  allow  Mr.  Parkes's  ingenious  reasoning 
to  prove  by  internal  evidence  the  almost  sole  authorship  of  Francis 
both  of  the  papers  thus  signed,  and  other  allied  compositions, 
to  Rtand  as  in  his  original  manuscript.  Nevertheless,  the  result 
affords  a  somewhat  curious  indication  of  the  uncertainty  of  the 
conclusions  deduced  from  such  evidence.  Among  the  original 
Woodfall  papers  is  the  following  MS.  note,  ostensibly  from  Anti- 
Sejanus,  to  Woodfall. 

1  Sic  in  Mr.  Parkes's  original.  There  is  a  confusion  between  '  Gravier ' 
and  '  Godfrey '  which  iny  materials  do  not  enable  me  to  set  right. — EDITOR. 


1766]  AUTHORSHIP  OF  ANTI-SEJANTJS.  131 

Sir, — I  am  alarmed  to  see  in  yours  of  yesterday  the  acknowledg- 
ment of  the  receipt  of  a  letter  signed  '  A  Friend  to  Anti-Sejanus,'  of 
which  neither  myself  nor  any  of  my  friends,  are  acquainted  with  the 
writer.  As  it  is  one  of  our  signatures,  I  hope  your  candour  will 
suppress  it,  if  there  is  anything  in  it  that  may  discredit  any  of  the 
party.  I  am,  very  sincerely, 

Your  friend  and  most  humble  servant, 
ANTI-SEJANUS. 

This  letter,  as  if  to  add  to  the  intricacy  of  the  question,  is  in 
a  handwriting,  in  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Parkes  himself,  as  well  as 
of  others  to  whom  he  showed  it,  certainly  not  that  of  Francis. 

'  Before  the  discovery  of  this  MS.  note,'  he  says,  in  a  memorandum, 
dated  May  1 7, 1814, '  I  had  a  strong  opinion  that  Anti-Sejanus  was  one 
of  Philip  Francis's  many  1765  assumed  anonymous  signatures,  though 
I  was  perplexed  by  apparently  inconsistent  parts  of  that  writer's  pub- 
lic political  writings.  But  if  this  MS.  note  be  the  real  handwriting 
of  that  writer,  it  bears  no  similarity  to  Francis's  natural  or  fictitious 
handwriting.  Also,  by  the  contents  of  the  note,  Anti-Sejanus  would 
appear  to  be  one  of  a  junto  of  party  writers  acting  in  concert  and 
confidence,  whereas  Francis  always  worked  per  se  without  connection 
with  other  writers.  But  then  Junius,  in  a  private  note  to  H.  S. 
Woodfall,  No.  8,  September  10,  1769,  pretends  that  '  there  are 
people  about  me  '  prompting  imprudent  letters. 

'To  re-examine  1765  newspaper  "Public  Advertiser"  file,  and  re- 
consider this  enigma.  Certain  contemporary  writers  believed  Anti- 
Sejanus  and  Cato  Bedivivus  to  be  the  same  individual.' 

Undoubtedly  the  curious  note  to  Woodfall  may  be  a  (  blind.' 
But  it  remains  a  probable  conclusion  to  be  drawn  from  this 
and  other  portions  of  the  evidence,  first,  that  in  much  of  the 
correspondence  previous  to  the  letters  signed  Junius,  Francis 
had  colleagues  ;  secondly,  that  the  Woodfalls,  or  H.  S.  Woodfall 
at  least,  were  not  wholly  unacquainted  with  the  combination  of 
clever  party  writers  to  whom  they  owed  so  much  of  their  con- 
tinued reputation  and  success. — [EDITOR.] 


Francis  has  thus  far  been  traced  as  an  active  voluntary 
and  unpaid  contributor  to  the  London  press  on  political 
and  other  subjects,  from  17 63  to  1766,  and  never,  in  any 


132  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

instance,  under  his  proper  name.  It  may  therefore  be 
presumed  that  he  would  continue  his  vocation  in  1767.  A* 
progressive  improvement  in  style  and  higher  aims  might 
be  expected,  and  that  such  a  young  writer's  peculiarities 
in  composition  would  accumulate  and  become  more  mani- 
fest. A  perfect  file  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  this 
year,1  with  the  aid  of  Francis's  manuscripts  and  corre- 
spondence, and  the  catalogue  of  his  library,  afford 
'  scents '  which,  patiently  followed  up,  render  the  pro- 
bable if  not  certain  identification  attainable.  The  clue, 
though  interwoven,  serves  for  a  guide. 

It  has  been  seen  that  our  Portuguese  policy  was  natur- 
ally a  subject  of  Francis's  interest.  He  had  formed 
acquaintance  with  some  English  mercantile  firms  in 
Lisbon,  and  with  some  of  their  London  partners  he 
became  intimate  on  his  return  home.  Among  his  papers 
are  copies  of  many  of  their  memorials  to  our  government, 
and  of  several  printed  pamphlets  on  our  commercial 
grievances  in  Portugal,  between  1760  and  1766.  In  the 
'Public  Advertiser'  of  the  last  day  of  1766,  Woodfall 
announced  in  his  notices  to  correspondents  that  a  Lusi- 
tanicus  packet  was  come  to  hand.  On  New  Year's  day 
(1767)  there  is  a  further  announcement,  4  Lusitanicus  in 
our  next.'  Accordingly,  a  letter  under  that  signature 
appeared  on  January  2.  It  was  editorially  headed  by 
the  announcement  that '  for  a  curious  anecdote  of  Oliver 
Cromwell,  see  the  last  page.'  The  perusal  of  'Lusi- 
tanicus '  scarcely  leaves  room  for  a  doubt  that  it  is  from 
the  pen  of  Lord  Kinnoul's  ex-private  secretary.  The 
letter,  occupying  two  columns,  is  written  with  all  the 
force  and  satire  of  Francis's  later  effusions,  and  repeats 

1  This  file,  from  1766  to  1784,  had  been  fortunately  preserved,  for  three 
generations,  in  the  printing  office  of  Mr.  H.  D.  WoodfalL.  It  is  the  only 
known  perfect  set  of  that  journal. 


1767]  PORTUGUESE  AFFAIRS.  133 

some  of  his  favourite  ideas,  scarcely  concealing  his  former 
"official  relations  in  Lisbon.  Though  carefully  avoiding  any 
allusion  to  Lord  Kinnoul's  particular  embassy,  the  writer 
substantially  recites  its  objects  and  their  failure,  so  far  as 
concerns  any  considerable  redress  of  mercantile  grievances. 
At  the  end,  the  editor  in  italics  adds,  '  to  be  continued,' 
thus  designating  it  only  as  the  first  portion  of  the  com- 
munication. Probably  such  was  the  fact,  or  that  a  con- 
tinuation had  been  privately  promised.  None,  however, 
appeared  under  the  same  signature  until  ten  days  after- 
wards. The  conclusive  part  may  have  been  withdrawn, 
or  if  not  enclosed  with  the  first  part,  the  completion  might 
have  been  postponed  by  the  writer.  But  the  former  reason 
was  the  most  likely,  as  in  the '  Public  Advertiser '  of  the  next 
day  (January  3)  the  editor  inserted  the  following  para- 
graph among  the  notices  to  correspondents, '  An  old  corre- 
spondent shall  be  obliged.'  Doubtless  the  obligation  was 
the  insertion  of  a  news  paragraph  in  that  day's  '  Public  Ad- 
vertiser,'to  the  effect  that  Lord  Chatham  had  just  despatched 
a  messenger  to  the  court  of  Portugal  demanding  an 
immediate  redress  of  our  grievances,  and  a  stricter  fulfil- 
ment of  the  British  treaties  with  Portugal.  This  para- 
graph, in  lieu  of  the  promised  continuation  of  Lusitanicus, 
clearly  denotes  the  writer's  access  to  official  sources  of 
information ;  the  paragraph  stating  that  Lord  Chatham 
had  made  '  a  positive  and  distinct  communication  '  to  the 
Portuguese  government  to  that  effect.  The  paragraph  is 
highly  complimentary  to  Lord  Chatham,  and  stating  that 
the  new  minister  was  exhibiting  his  ancient  bold  policy 
and  spirit,  and  that  the  ministry  of  Lord  Chatham  might 
eclipse  that  of  Mr.  Pitt ;  for  that  in  the  event  of  the 
Portuguese  government  not  replacing  British  commerce 
on  its  original  footing,  and  unless  ample  justice  was  done 
to  our  merchants,  it  '  was  determined  to  open  a  trade 


134  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

directly  with  the  Brazils,  in  conformity  to  specific  sti- 
pulations of  treaty.'  This  paragraph  may  have  been 
sent  to  the  newspaper  with  the  privity  of  Francis's  old 
friend,  Mr.  Wood,  from  whom  the  writer  would  probably 
derive  his  information.  The  War  Office  rooms  then 
adjoined  and  communicated  with  those  of  the  Treasury 
and  Commissariat.  The  article  is  signed  Craftsman. 
The  identity  of  Francis  as  Lusitanicus  is  further  proved 
by  the  Cromwell  anecdote  published  with  the  letter.  It 
is  in  substance  the  well-known  anecdote  from  Lord 
Orrery's  State  papers,  of  the  project,  in  the  interregnum 
between  Cromwell's  acceptance  of  the  protectorate  or  the 
title  of  king,  of  a  negotiation  for  a  marriage  between  his 
youngest  daughter  Frances  and  Charles  II.  Not  only 
had  Philip  Francis  noted  this  anecdote  in  one  of  his  early 
volumes  of  manuscript  notes  of  his  readings,  but  his 
library  contained  a  copy  of  Carte's  Ormonde  Papers j1  and 
in  one  of  his  acknowledged  pamphlets,  forty  years  after- 
wards, the  same  historical  anecdote  is  repeated. 

On  Jan.  10,  appeared,  under  notices  to  correspondents, 
an  acknowledgment  of  the  receipt  of  'A.  B.  to  the  Earl  of 
Chatham.'  This  probably  was  enclosed  with  a  further  letter 
of  Lusitanicus,  because  Woodfall's  receipt  of  the  latter  was 
not  acknowledged,  and  also  as  both  letters  were  published 
in  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  the  same  day,  January  13'. 

The  second  letter  of  Lusitanicus  appears  as  a  distinct 
communication  ;  and  it  of  course  was  framed  on  the  new 
state  of  circumstances  in  the  intervening  week. 

The  letter  of  A.  B.  bears  also  strong  assay  marks  of 
Francis's  authorship.  It  is  addressed  to  Lord  Chatham,  with 
a  motto  from  St.  Augustine,  non  magna  loqui  sed  vivere. 
Francis  possessed  the  Latin  works  of  St.  Augustine,  and 
appreciated  some  of  the  Saint's  admirable  though  Catho- 

1  Edition  1739,  lot  307  in  the  Francis  Library  Sale  Catalogue. 


1767]  A.  B.  TO  LORD  CHATHAM.  135 

lie  writings.  He  commences  this  second  letter  by  stating 
that  he  had  addressed  '  several  letters  '  to  his  lordship,  '  in 
the  "  Public  Advertiser  "  of  August  and  September  last, 
wherein  I  ventured  to  foretell  that  the  unnatural  ferment 
which  had  been  raised  by  the  malevolent  insinuations  and 
shameless  assertions  of  your  enemies  would  shortly  sub- 
side ; '  and  he  then  proceeded  to  congratulate  himself  on 
being  no  'false  prophet,'  his  exact  predictions  having 
been  fulfilled.  He  then  eulogises  the  earl,  contrasting  his 
statesmanlike  qualities  with  those  of  the  minister's  chief 
opponents ;  the  latter  of  whom  A.  B.  describes  as  the 
faction  '  of  a  few  private  families '  seeking  office  from  the 
lust  of  power,  and  for  the  enrichment  and  aggrandisement 
of  themselves,  at  the  expense  of  the  nation,  and  at  the 
sacrifice  of  rewards  due  '  to  men  of  real  merit.'  In  many 
of  his  preceding  letters  he  had  harped  on  the  unrequited 
deserts  of  the  secondary  and  junior  officials  of  our  public 
civil  departments.  He  recites  the  glories  of  Chatham's 
earlier  administrations,  and  assures  him  of  the  love  and 
'•veneration'  of  the  people,  if  the  'Earl'  will  continue  to 
be  the  '  Commoner '  he  was.  A.  B.  then  lauds  the  '  irre- 
sistible eloquence'  of  the  peer  (in  Francis's  old  terms)  as 
affecting  the  heart,  and  at  the  same  time  convincing  the 
understanding  and  entitling  Chatham  to  the  just  name  of 
the  '  British  Cicero.'  He  concludes  by  denouncing  hire- 
ling writers,  averring  himself  to  be  unpaid  and  unknown 
to  the  earl ;  and  expresses  his  confidence,  that  in  the  con- 
duct of  the  foreign  policy  of  the  country,  the  '  Earl  of 
Chatham '  will  be  no  more  intimidated  than  was  the 
'  Great  Commoner.'  It  will  be  hereafter  seen  that  this 
latter  was  almost  in  spirit  and  letter  repeated  by  Francis 
in  a  private  anonymous  letter  to  Lord  Chatham  himself.1 

1  Letter  of  Junius  to  Lord  Chatham,  January  2,  1768,  '  Chatham  Cor- 
respondence/ iii.  302. 


136  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1707 

Thus  under  two  different  signatures  on  the  same 
day  Francis  again  resorted  to  his  old  plan  of  multiplying 
himself,  the  variety  of  his  signatures  adding  to  his  action 
on  public  opinion,  and  also  abridging  the  chances  of  his 
personal  discovery. 

In  the  'Public  Advertiser'  of  March  3,  appeared  another 
letter  on  the  subject  of  Portuguese  oppression  of  our  mer- 
chants, under  the  fresh  signature  of  Ulissipo  Britannicus. 
This  is  palpably  another  disguise  of  Francis.  It  was  written 
to  press  the  question  again  on  the  attention  of  ministers, 
who,  c  in  the  multiplicity  of  business,'  the  writer  fears  may 
overlook  a  pressing  wrong.  He  calls  public  attention 
to  a  pamphlet  just  published,  '  Authentic  Memorials  of 
the  British  Consul  and  Factory  at  Lisbon,'  detailing  the 
old  grievances.  The  perusal  of  the  pages,  he  ironically 
says,  made  him  admire  the  calm  patience  of  his  country- 
men, long  suffering  under  so  oppressive  a  load.  He  says 
that  the  facts,  with  vouchers,  had  been  delivered  to  Lord 
Khmoul,  when  ambassador  in  Portugal,  and  were  '  after- 
wards transmitted  to  the  late  Great  Commoner  and  the 
Earl  of  Halifax,  while  they  managed  the  affairs  of  State. ' 
The  latter  facts  of  course  must  have  been  known  to 
Francis.  Further,  among  his  collection  of  pamphlets  is 
a  copy  of  the  one  in  question  ;  and  it  will  be  hereafter 
seen  that '  Ulissipo '  was  a  signature  in  divers  combinations 
subsequently  used  by  him. 

These  letters  appear  to  be  his  only  political  contributions 
to  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  in  the  first  three  months  of  this 
year.  There  are  three  or  four  intervening  letters  and 
paragraphs  on  miscellaneous  and  literary  subjects,  one 
of  which  especially,  on  Eousseau's  quarrel  with  Hume, 
might  reasonably  be  assigned  to  him ;  but  the  internal 
and  external  evidence  of  their  authorship  is  insufficient 
positively  to  identify  them  as  by  Francis.  In  one  of 


1767]  ONUSTUS.  137 

these  doubtful  papers,  signed  Pictor,  Francis  would  seem 
to  have  been  trying  a  dramatic  style  of  lampooning, 
which,  in  the  course  of  this  year,  it  will  be  soon  seen, 
he  successfully  practised.  Pictor  satirises  Lord  Mansfield 
under  the  character  of  Frosty,  Dr.  Johnson  under  the 
name  of  Pension,  and  some  third  public  man  as  Antique. 
The  letter  is  in  answer  to  one  inserted  in  the  '  Gazetteer,' 
then  partly  edited  by  his  own  father,  and  has  Francis's 
peculiar  irony. 

In  this  month  he  appears  to  have  become  disgusted  with 
the  acts  of  the  new  cabinet,  who  certainly  disappointed  the 
expectations  of  the  entire  liberal  public.  An  announce- 
ment in  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  March  4,  that '  An  old 
correspondent  may  be  assured  that  we  shall  with  pleasure 
insert  his  favours  as  hertofore,'  soon  indicated  Francis 
under  the  signature  of  Onustus  in  the  paper  of  that  day. 
The  letter  compares  Chatham  to  Balaam,  and  truly  com- 
plains of  the  useless  places  created,  and  the  undeserved 
pensions  conferred ;  speaking  of  the  '  late  Great  Com- 
moner, and  now  little  Earl  of  C.'  Francis  had  not 
changed  ;  but  Chatham  had  surrendered  himself  to  his 
colleagues,  and  in  the  American  policy  had  turned  his  coat. 
On  the  7th,  Onustus  continues  his  Balaam  parody.  On  the 
9th,  the  same  writer  reflects  on  the  earl's  sulky  absence 
in  the  country,  and  represents  him  as  only  suffering  from 
political  gout.  A  fourth  letter,  on  the  10th,  attacks  the 
minister  with  increased  severity.  Onustus  was  not  incon- 
sistent, he  only  echoed  the  opinion  of  the  public.  In 
political  parties  there  are  no  reactions  so  sudden,  no 
animosities  so  bitter,  as  those  excited  by  men  in  office, 
who  violate  pledges  given  in  opposition.  Consistency  was 
the  quality  he  respected  in  George  Grenville.  In  this  last 
letter  of  Onustus,  Francis  specially  shows  his  partiality 
for  that  statesman,  referring  to  him  as  '  Mr.  Grenville, 


138  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

that  able  and  honest  minister,  who  fell  a  sacrifice  to 
the  restlessness,  jealousy,  and  revenge  of  an  ambitious 
favourite.' 

In  the  preceding  month,  Lord  Chatham's  continued 
illness  and  absence  from  London  had  completely  paralysed 
the  government,  and  fostered  cabals.  Charles  Townsend 
and  Conway  were  notoriously  negotiating  with  the  Eock- 
ingham  party,  with  the  object  of  ousting  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  and  many  resignations  of  office  were  threatened. 
All  was  chaos  in  the  King's  councils.  Still  Chatham 
showed  no  intention  of  retirement.  The  bright  hopes  on 
his  entry  into  office  were  now  changed  into  gloom  and 
every  disappointment. 

The  year  1767,  and  the  four  subsequent  years,  of  the 
volumes  of  Woodfall's  journal,  critically  and  attentively 
studied,  clearly  show  the  distinctive  penmarks  of  Francis, 
the  progressive  formation  of  his  style,  and  the  growing 
power  of  his  political  writings.  The  earlier  writings  of  few 
celebrated  political  authors  are  comparable  to  their  after 
productions.  Experience  of  public  life  and  knowledge 
of  human  nature  are  essential  attainments  before  maturity. 
The  works  of  Swift,  Cobbet,  Paine,  and  of  almost  all  the 
eminent  political  writers  of  the  Georgian  era,  might  be 
cited  in  proof  of  the  fact.  Shakespeare  published  his 
exquisite  '  Venus  and  Adonis'  when  only  twenty-one  years 
old.  Milton  had  produced  his  'Lycidas'  and  'Comus' 
before  his  majority ;  but  years  only  create  the  skill  of  the 
literary  politician,  who  treats  of  social  science,  or  embarks 
in  party  controversy. 

It  is  plain  that  Woodfall  constantly,  though  intermit- 
tently, received  from  his  old  and  '  valued '  correspondent 
fresh  communications,  because  they  are  always  specially 
acknowledged  and  almost  invariably  inserted  at  the  head 
of  the  columns  appropriated  to  the  correspondence  of  the 


1767]  COMMUNICATIONS  WITH  WOODFALL.  139 

journal.  One  fact  is  remarkable  throughout  these  singular 
contributions  of  Francis — that  Woodfall,  from  the  terms  of 
his  several  and  varied  acknowledgments  of  them,  certainly 
did  not  know  from  what  individual  they  came.  The  hand- 
writing of  the  contributor  was  clearly  the  editor's  mode  of 
recognition  as  the  '  favours  '  of  one  and  the  same  writer. 
Whether  at  this  time  Francis  wrote  in  a  natural  or  a 
feigned  hand  can  only  be  subject  of  speculation.  But  as 
his  handwriting  in  the  Candor  first  letter  of  August  2, 
1764,  was  disguised,  though  indifferently,  and  as  Woodfall 
probably  knew  the  hand  of  his  schoolfellow,  it  is  a  fair 
presumption  that  all  the  subsequent  communications  were 
penned  in  the  same  artificial  manner  ;  and  this  probability 
will  be  heightened  by  after  circumstances. 

But  to  pass  through,  and  out  of  such  a  labyrinth,  the 
reader  must  now  be  carried  forward. 

Close  on  the  heels  of  Onustus  followed  on  April  27, 
1767,  two  short  satirical  letters  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser,' 
bearing  the  signatures  of  Consistens  and  A  Real  Cook 
en  Culotte.  On  the  24th  inst.  a  list  of  a  pending  new 
administration,  '  now  handed  about,'  had  appeared  in  the 
'  Public  Advertiser.'  It  assigned  a  coming  new  premiership 
to  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  the  Treasury  to  Lord  Kock- 
ingham.  the  Great  Seal  to  Lord  Mansfield,  &c.  ;  the  cast 
of  parts  being  a  most  unlikely  amalgamation  of  political 
sections.  It  was  probably  '  a  feeler '  from  the  pen  of 
some  writer  who  sought  a  place  in  the  cabinet,  or  some 
subordinate  officer.  It  seems  to  have  excited  the  ire  of 
Francis  and  his  sense  of  the  ridiculous.  The  two  letters 
demolishing  the  spurious  list  palpably  exhibit  his  style 
and  personal  associations.  He  stamps  as  counterfeits 
some  of  the  names  in  the  list  as  those  of '  notorious  stig- 
matised men  who  violently  supported  general  warrants' 

The  political  burglary  in  Wilkes's  dwelling-house  con.- 


140  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

tinued  to  be  an  inexpiable  crime  in  the  eyes  of  Francis ; 
and  it  was  more  or  less  constantly  referred  to  and  indig- 
nantly denounced  in  his  after  political  productions  ;  even  to 
the  close  of  life.  It  was  the  bete  noire  of  his  mind ;  but  it 
was  a  past  evil,  rarely,  if  ever,  alluded  to  by  any  other  con- 
temporary correspondent  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser.'  It 
was  naturally  the  ghost  which  haunted  Candor.  Further, 
the  letter  of  the  Cook  refers  to  a  similar  prose  jeu 
d* esprit  in  the  '.Public  Advertiser '  of  February  4,  pub- 
lished with  the  Britannicus  Portuguese  letter.1  Again,  the 
Real  Cook  betrays  his  own  calling  by  the  statement  that 
so  scandalous  were  the  jobs,  and  the  bestowal  of  the  best 
places  on  the  least  deserving  men,  that  he  himself  had 
been  nineteen  years  in  a  second  class  office  '  without  ex- 
perience of  dismission  or  resignation.'  In  this  paper  he 
states  that  he  then  had  expectations  of  benefit  through 
one  patron,  after  attaching  himself  in  vain  to  and  receiving 
empty  promises  from  five  heads  of  office.  He  described 
Chatham  as  the  cat's-paw  of  all  the  self-seekers  and 
place-hunters  of  the  kingdom,  and  suggests  that  a  public 
house  or  '  eating  house '  should  be  opened  in  London 
with  the  sign  of  '  A  Pensioner  on  Crutches.' 

From  this  period  Francis,  apparently  having  discovered 
the  force,  value,  and  power  of  his  pen,  commenced  a  more 
serious  and  masculine  style  of  writing.  On  the  day  fol- 
lowing the  publication  of  the  two  Jast-mentioned  letters, 
appeared  a  letter  of  heavier  calibre  and  with  a  peculiar 
assumption  of  dignity  and  gravity.  It  bore  the  signature 
of  Poplicola,  the  name  of  one  of  the  first  Eoman  Consuls. 
It  is  singular  that,  contrary  to  Woodfall's  almost  invariable 


1  This  former  squib  was  evidently  by  Francis,  as  the  Cook  terms  it  '  my 
quaint  but  very  honest  letter  of  the  4th  of  February  last.'  This  Jeu  (f  esprit 
was  a  pretended  advertisement  of  a  procurer  of  places  in  public  offices  for 
men  seeking  patronage. 


1767]  POPLICOLA.  141 

habit  to  his  correspondents,  this  letter  was  unacknowledged 
when  received.  It  therefore  in  all  probability  was  en- 
closed in  the  same  envelope  as  the  preceding  printed 
letters,  and  needed  no  notice.  The  authorship  of  Poplicola 
has  been  attributed  by  a  late  American  writer  to  Home 
Tooke — a  simple  guess — it  being  assumed  that  Francis's 
known  admiration  of  Chatham  made  his  authorship  of  it 
not  only  inconsistent  but  impossible.  This  fallacious  ob- 
jection to  Francis's  identity  as  the  author,  has  been  already 
fully  shown  in  this  chapter  of  his  life,  and  indeed  the  con- 
tinued attack  on  Chatham  is  one  of  the  proofs  that  Pop- 
licola was  Francis.  This  letter  is  throughout  stamped 
with  the  spirit  of  Francis's  style  and  sentiments.  In  the 
first  three  sentences  his  authorship  is  denoted  by  his  re- 
peated use  of  the  preposition  to  six  times.  The  expression 
of  '  so  black  a  villain '  was  the  peculiar  and  coarse  lan- 
guage of  vituperation  used  by  Francis  years  afterwards. 
It  might  have  been  wished  that  so  eloquent  and  powerful 
a  writer  was  not  the  author  of  some  vituperative  passages 
in  this  and  a  following  second  letter  of  Poplicola  ;  but 
truth  compels  the  admission.  The  hypothesis  that  Home 
Tooke  was  the  author  is  absurd  ;  his  style,  in  the  few  early 
political  articles  written  by  the  Parson  of  Brentford,  will 
on  comparison  be  found  to  be  widely  different.  The 
writers  who  raised  the  suspicion  of  Tooke's  authorship  of 
Poplicola  did  so  partly  on  the  assertion  that  '  about '  this 
period  Tooke  had  returned  from  a  tour  in  Italy,  passing 
previously  some  weeks  with  Wilkes  in  Paris.  But  not 
only  was  Tooke  abroad  during  the  entire  year  and  pre- 
vious autumn  of  1766,  but  by  one  of  his  letters  he  was  in 
Paris  so  late  as  May  25, 1767. 

On  May  23  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  contained  a  witty, 
quaint,  and  ironical  letter  against  cant  and  hypocrisy  in 
politics  and  religion,  under  Francis's  old  anonym  of  One  of 


142  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

the  People.  This  was  almost  certainly  his,  by  its  allusion  to 
the  communications  under  the  signature  of  Margery  the 
Cook.  It  is  a  clever  satire  on  the  English  observance  of 
the  Sabbath,  in  one  law  for  the  rich  and  another  for  the 
poor.  Bolingbroke,  one  of  his  favourite  authors,  is  also 
quoted.  The  first  and  the  last  sentences  bear  unmistake- 
able  marks  of  Francis's  hand.  It  opens  in  the  following 
manner :  *  The  negroes  have  a  notion  that  when  God 
Almighty  made  man,  the  devil  tried  his  hand  at  creation 
too  ;  but  not  being  able  to  complete  his  purpose,  instead 
of  a  perfect  man  he  made  a  monkey.'  He  closes  by 
stating  that  the  magistrates'  fine  inflicted  for  swearing  is 
a  punishment  proportionate  to  the  rank  of  the  swearer ; 
that  a  man  of  fashion  pays  five  shillings  for  his  lordship's 
oath,  whereas  his  footman  may  swear  for  a  shilling ;'  he 
avers  that  the  reason  is  good,  because  swearing  is  a  vulgar 
custom,  and  a  man  of  quality  should  not  demean  himself 
by  doing  anything  vulgar.'  He  adds,  that  '  Margery  the 
Cook  must  not  think  herself  authorised  to  play  at  all  fours 
with  the  footman  in  the  kitchen  because  her  lady  is  at 
picquet  with  a  fine  gentleman  in  her  dressing-room ; 
nor  must  she  allow  herself  to  sell  the  coals  because  her 
mistress  slips  a  guinea  out  of  the  quadrille  pool.  She 
must  be  sober,  though  her  lady  loves  liquors.  She  must 
read  her  Bible  and  go  to  church,  though  her  ladyship 
studies  Hoyle  and  plays  cards  of  Sundays.  She  must 
keep  the  commandments  though  her  lady  don't  know 
one  from  t'other  ;  and  she  must  love  and  fear  God  though 
her  lady  never  thinks  at  all  about  Him.'  This  style  of 
contrast  or  antithesis  was  his  peculiar  vein  of  humour  and 
illustration  of  an  argument. 

Curiously,  he  early  came  into  collision  with  Sir  William 
Draper ;  perhaps  without  being  aware  that  they  were 
antagonists.  Sir  William  was  a  resident  at  Clifton  and  an 


1767]  POPLICOLA.  143 

occasional  contributor  to  the  '  Public  Advertiser  ;'  signing 
his  initials,  only  without  any  address.     Wilkes,  in  a  well- 
known  pamphlet  addressed  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  had 
made  some  strong  reflections  on  Chatham,  and  Draper  (who 
had  been  under  obligations  to  that  minister)  answered  them 
and  counter-attacked  Wilkes.    This  Draper  letter  caused  a 
second  letter  from  Poplicola.1    The  latter  justified  Wilkes, 
distinctly  answering  the  charge  against  him  of  inconsis- 
tency towards  Chatham.     '  Poplicola,'  after  logically  de- 
stroying the  argument  of  Draper,  without  undertaking  the 
defence  of  that  gentleman's  conduct  or  character,  says,  '  I 
cannot  admit  that  because  Mr.  Pitt  was  respected  and 
honoured  a  few  years  ago,  the  Earl  of  Chatham  therefore 
deserves  to  be  so  now ;  or  that  a  description  which  suited 
him  in  one  part  of  his  life  must  of  necessity  be  the  only 
one  applicable  to  him  at  another.     It  is  barely  possible 
that  a  very  honest  commoner  may  become  a  very  corrupt 
and  worthless  peer.'     This  is  equally  a  defence  of  the 
apparent  inconsistency  of  his  own  different  estimates  of 
Lord  Chatham.     This  second  letter  of  Poplicola  is  far  the 
most  severe  of  all  Francis's  past  invectives  against  that 
minister.    On  June  10,  Woodfall  appears,  by  the  following 
acknowledgment,  to  have  received  another  communication  ; 
'  A  due  attention  will  be  paid  to  One  of  the  People's  request : 
his  present  favour  shall  have  a  place  in  our  next.'     But 
on  the  following  day  the  editor  notes  that  '  When  we  pro- 
mised our  old  correspondent  One  of  the  People's  letter 
a  place  to-day,  we  overlooked  his  desire  of  having  it  ap- 
pear on  Saturday,  when  it  shall  be  inserted.'     Accord- 
ingly, on  the  latter  day,  the  13th,  it  was  published ;  as 
usual  at  the  head  of  the  correspondence.     Its  object  was 

1  'Public  Advertiser,'  May  28,  1767.  This  letter,  as  printed, erroneously 
calls  Sir  William  Draper's  initials  C.D.  This  may  have  been  either  the  error 
of  the  compositor  or  the  mistake  of  Francis. 


144  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

to  denounce  the  violation  of  public  decency  in  married 
men  of  rank  appearing  at  Newmarket  and  in  the  parks 
with  their  mistresses,  and  the  equal  insult  to  society  of 
those  friends  who  countenance  such  immorality,  by 
friendly  recognition  of  the  frail  women.  The  moral  was 
clearly  aimed  at  the  Duke  of  Grafton. 

On  June  23,  appeared  the  announcement  to  the  '  Public 
Advertiser'  correspondent,  that  Anti-Sejanus  Jun.  is  come 
to  hand.'  This  signature  as  jun.  was  only  a  fresh  christ- 
ening of  the  Anti-Sejanus  of  1766.  Like  the  '  Father  of 
Candor,' 4  it  was  a  change  of  shape,'  common  in  the  writer. 
This  letter  occupies  the  place  of  honour  in  the  '  Public  Ad- 
vertiser '  of  the  following  day.  It  is  a  bitter  terse  attack  on 
the  ministry,  particularly  aimed  at  Lords  Chatham  and 
Bute.  The  motto  prefixed  is  a  passage  from  Francis's  maga- 
zine of  mottoes,  the  *  Annals'  of  Tacitus.  It  is  from  the 
first  book,  typifying  a  woman  raging  with  all  the  impotence 
of  female  ambition,  and  a  people  enslaved  by  a  woman1 
and  two  juveniles.  Singularly  enough,  in  one  of  Francis's 
earliest  bound  volumes  of  manuscripts  a  printed  cutting 
from  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  this  letter  is  pasted  within, 
and  manuscript  dated,  in  his  own  hand,  June  24,  1767. 
This  letter  exhibits  the  writer's  early  prejudices  against 
the  Scotch.  Believing  Chatham  to  have  been  the  mere 
nominee  of  Lord  Bute,  *  Anti-Sejanus  Jun.'  hurls  the  well- 
known  invective  against  Chatham. 

I  will  not  censure  him  for  the  avarice  of  a  pension,  nor  the 
melancholy  ambition  of  a  title.  These  were  objects  which  he 
perhaps  looked  up  to,  though  the  rest  of  the  world  thought  them 
far  beneath  his  acceptance.  But  to  become  the  stalking-horse 
of  a  stallion ;  to  shake  hands  with  a  Scotchman  at  the  hazard  of 
catching  all  his  infamy  ;  to  fight  under  his  auspices  against  the 
constitution ;  and  to  receive  the  word  from  him,  prerogative  and  a 
thistle  (by  the  once  respected  name  of  Pitt)  ;  it  is  even  below  con- 

1  Meaning  the  Princess  Dowager. 


1707]  ONE  OF  THE  PEOPLE.  145 

tempt.  But  it  seems  that  this  unhappy  country  had  long  enough 
been  distracted  by  their  divisions,  and  in  the  last  instance  was  to  be 
oppressed  by  their  union. 

In  this  short  letter,  of  only  half  a  newspaper  column, 
the  preposition  to  is  used  twenty-three  times. 

In  the  same  folio  volume  are  pasted  three  other  news- 
paper slips,  probably  his  own  productions.  The  author- 
ship of  one  of  them,  cut  from  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  by 
the  following  singular  circumstantial  evidence,  is  fixed  on 
Francis.  His  last  letter  in  June  had  been  under  his  former 
signature  of  One  of  the  People.  On  July  10,  the  day 
before  publication,  Wbodfall  announced  its  receipt  in  the 
following  singular  notice  : — 

'  One  of  the  People's  favour  is  come  to  hand,  and  shall  have  a  place 
in  our  next.  We  were  not  unmindful  of  the  request  contained  in 
the  cover  of  a  former  letter,  but  some  of  the  MSS.  being  destroyed, 
and  the  papers  in  which  they  were  inserted  mislaid,  we  have  not 
as  yet  been  able  to  comply  with  it,  but  hope  by  our  correspondent's 
return  to  town  to  perfect  them.  His  MSS.  in  future  shall  be  pre- 
served. We  shall  think  ourselves  happy  in  hearing  from  him, 
as  the  postage  for  correspondents'  letters  is  what  we  pay  with  the 
utmost  readiness.' 

Now  this  remarkable  paragraph  shows  that  the  '  old  and 
valued  correspondent,'  had  requested  the  editor  to  preserve 
and  return  the  manuscripts  of  his  communications ;  and 
apparently  to  select  and  to  send  him  some  numbers  of 
the  l  Public  Advertiser '  in  which  his  letters  had  ap- 
peared ;  and  farther,  that  at  this  time  his  correspondent 
(if  Francis)  was  leaving  London  for  a  time ;  and  the  para- 
graph acknowledges  an  offer  of  such  correspondent  to 
send  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  occasional  communications, 
notwithstanding  his  temporary  absence.  The  letter  of 
One  of  the  People,  published  on  July  11,  is  a  curious 
and  ingenious  column,  similar  also  to  the  letter  in  the 
same  journal  which  a  year  before  had  produced  the 

VOL.  I.  L 


1-16  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

return  by  the  Duke  of  Eichmond  of  Francis's  manuscript 
on  Portugal.  One  of  the  People  says  that  all  writers 
are  impelled  either  by  the  love  of  fame  or  profit,  but 
that  they  cannot  please  their  readers  without  in  a  degree 
consulting  the  public  appetite  and  taste.  The  writer 
then  describes  himself  as  '  not  of  sufficient  dignity  to  be 
ranked  in  any  class  of  literati,'  and  as  '  more  a  man  of 
the  world  than  the  closet.'  He  ends  his  letter  by  the 
intimation  that  probably  few  of  Woodfall's  correspon- 
dents keep  copies  of  all  their  letters  to  the  '  Public  Ad- 
vertiser,' ironically  intimating,  that  he  still  hoped  for  the 
return  of  his  own  manuscripts.  A  few  days  afterwards 
appeared  a  short  anti-ministerial  letter,  under  the  signa- 
ture of  Mindful^  merely  in  answer  to  the  laudation  of  the 
government,  in  a  letter  signed  Attention.1  Woodfall 
recognises  his  old  friend  Mindful  by  the  following  notice 
to  him  in  the  same  day's  paper  : — 

An  old  correspondent  will  see  we  have  paid  due  attention  to  the 
paragraph  he  sent  us  ;  and  we  take  this  opportunity  of  expressing 
our  wish  of  hearing  from  him  more  frequently,  as  his  favours  were 
ever  well  received  by  the  public,  and  did  credit  to  our  paper.  We 
mean  to  be  understood  when  it  may  suit  his  convenience  or  incli- 
nation. 

Francis  had  thus  evidently  apprised  Woodfall  of  an 
intended  absence  from  London.  A  correspondence  be- 
tween Francis  and  his  friend  Gravier,  mid-July,  Gravier 
being  then  in  Geneva,  had  fixed  a  meeting  either  in  Paris 
the  third  week  of  that  month,  or  at  Lisle  on  August  4. 
Francis  could  not  leave  early  enough  for  his  Paris 
project,  but  a  letter  to  his  brother-in-law,  Alexander 
Mackrabie,  addressed  Philadelphia  U.S.,  whither,  as  we 
shall  see,  Mackrabie  was  going,  of  the  date  of  the  4th, 
says :  '  This  day  I  set  out  for  Lisle  to  meet  Gravier,  and 

1  '  Public  Advertiser,'  July  16,  1767. 


1767]  TOUR  IN  FLANDERS.  147 

make  the  tour  of  Holland  and  Flanders ;  the  post  chaise  is 
waiting  at  the  door.'  The  War  Office  letter  books  and 
papers  show  no  handwriting  of  Francis  after  the  3rd. 
This  also  corresponds  with  the  date  of  his  following  first 
letter  to  Mrs.  Francis  : — 

Aare,  August  6,  1767. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — This  place  is  midway  between  Calais  and 
Lisle.  We  arrived  here  this  evening  safe  and  sound  between  eight 
and  nine.  I  write  from  hence  a  few  lines  because  if  I  were  to  defer 
it  till  my  arrival  at  Lisle  it  would  make  a  difference  of  several 
days.  All  I  can  tell  you  at  present  is  that  our  journey  and  voyage 
has  hitherto  been  favourable.  Inform  Mrs.  Langdale  that  I  saw  her 
son  this  evening  and  delivered  my  commission ;  he  is  well  and  in 
good  spirits. 

My  good  girl,  do  you  take  care  to  keep  up  yours  ?  I  am  most 
excessively  tired  and  so  must  conclude, 

Yours,  yours  in  truth, 

P.  F. 

His  second  letter  to  his  wife  was  from  Brussels  : — 

Brussels,  August  11,  1767. 

We  arrived  here  last  night  perfectly  well,  though  not  a  little 
fatigued.  This  is  the  best  news,  and  all  that  I  am  able  to  send 
you  yet.  We  left  my  father  at  Lisle  very  much  out  of  order ;  but 
we  expect  him  here  to-night.  The  roads  are  all  paved,  which  I 
promise  you  is  the  most  detestable  circumstance  in  the  world  to  a 
head  naturally  inclined  to  ache.  We  are  vastly  well  lodged  here,  and 
intend  staying  all  the  week,  but  I  see  no  likelihood  of  our  going  into 
Holland. 

I  lay  at  Ghent  last  Sunday  night,  and  stayed  there  the  greatest 
part  of  yesterday.  Tell  Mrs.  Langdale  that  I  saw  her  daughters 
and  delivered  her  letter ;  they  are  perfectly  well  and  I  think  sur- 
prisingly improved.  Gravier  is  now  sitting  by  to  have  his  hair  drest, 
in  order  to  ascend  a  superb  coach. 

I  have  nothing  to  add  but  what  you  know,  that  I  am  yours  most 
truly  and  affectionately. 

Make  my  compliments  to  all  friends,  and  kiss  my  sweet  children. 

Yours,  yours, 

P.  FK. 

I  wrote  to  you  from  a  place  called  Aire  in  Flanders. 


148  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

He  was  then  on  his  way  home,  but  there  is  no  record 
of  the  exact  day  of  his  return.  By  the  War  Office  docu- 
ments, his  absence  would  appear  to  have  been  barely 
three  weeks.  In  the  interim  of  his  absence  no  letters 
bearing  any  of  his  old  signatures  nor  any  communications 
in  his  style  appeared  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  the  journal 
in  the  interregnum  being  particularly  dull.  But  on  Aug.  25 
appeared  a  short  spicy  letter  (unacknowledged  but  ac- 
corded the  first  place  in  the  day's  correspondence)  under 
the  signature  of  A  Faithful  Monitor.  Further,  the  internal 
evidence  of  the  authorship  is  curious.  The  Faithful  Moni- 
tor unconsciously  betrays  Francis's  recent  absence  abroad 
in  his  first  sentence  of  address  to  the  printer :  '  Sir — I  have 
been  some  time  in  the  country,  which  has  prevented  your 
sooner  hearing  from  me.  I  find  you  and  your  brother 
printers  have  got  greatly  into  a  sort  of  knack  of  stuffing 
your  papers  with  flummery  upon  two  certain  brothers,1 
who  are  labouring  in  vain,  endeavouring  to  force  them- 
selves out  of  the  world's  contempt.  I  have  great  good  will 
to  you,  and  hope  you  are  well  paid  for  this  sort  of  non- 
sense, as  indeed  you  ought  to  be,  for  it  certainly  disgraces 
your  paper.'  The  letter  is  dated  from  St.  James's  Coffee 
House.  It  quotes  the  Latin  sentence  before  used  in  the 
Candor  pamphlets  : — 

Non  tali  auxilio,  nee  defensoribus  istis 
Tempus  eget. 

The  writer  also  uses  a  French  expression,  advising  the 
editor  to  '  give  up  the  noble  pair  as  enfans  perdus.'  The 
Irish  people  are  characterised  in  the  peculiar  terms  in 
which  an  Irishman  would  describe  them,  as  'the  brave  Irish 
whose  hasty  tempers,  or  whose  blunders,  may  sometimes 
lead  them  into  a  quarrel,  but  whose  swords  always  carry 

1  Lord  Townsend  and  Charles  Townsend  ;  the  former  then  Lord-Lieute- 
naiit  of  Ireland,  the  latter  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 


1707]  GOVERNMENT  OF  IRELAND.  149 

them  through  it.'  He  describes  the  government  as  '  a 
locum  tenens  administration,'  and  the  Townsends  as  weak 
props  which  will  not  enable  the  Duke  of  Grafton  to  stand, 
4  after  throwing  down  his  idol  Pitt,  at  whose  false  altar  he 
had  before  sacrificed  his  friends.'  Conway  he  treats  with 
less  severity,  lamenting  over  his  inconsistency,  as  fore- 
going for  Grafton  '  the  connections  of  his  youth  and  the 
friends  of  his  best  and  ripest  judgment.'  Lord  Towns- 
end  had  served  in  the  expeditions  to  the  French  coast, 
and  the  Faithful  Monitor  says :  '  I  am  not  a  stranger 
to  this  par  nobile  fratrum.  I  have  served  under  the 
one,  and  have  been  forty  times  promised  to  be  served 
by  the  other.'  Thus  incidentally,  perhaps  unwittingly, 
the  writer  denotes  himself  as  an  inferior  member  of  the 
public  service,  one  aspiring  to  higher  office ;  and,  specially, 
again  he.  states  that  he  is  an  unpaid  contributor  to  the 
'  Public  Advertiser.' 

Lord  Townsend  could  have  no  right  to  complain  of 
such  political  attacks,  as  his  own  happy  caricature  draw- 
ings (numbers  of  them  engraved  and  published)  against 
his  opponents  were  equally  personal  and  severe;  and 
his  '  Castle  Writers '  in  Dublin,  paid  out  of  the  public 
purse,  were  violent  and  libellous  beyond  all  comparison 
with  the  opposition  press. 

As  one  illustration  of  the  ill-government  of  Ireland 
during  these  scandalous  cabals  of  the  English  aristocracy 
and  the  court,  it  is  not  inappropriate  to  record  that 
from  the  accession  of  George  III.  to  this  period,  there 
had  been  seven  Lords-Lieutenant  of  the  sister  island: 
the  Duke  of  Bedford,  Earl  of  Halifax,  the  Earl  of  Nor- 
thumberland, Viscount  Weymouth,  the  Earl  of  Hertford, 
the  Earl  of  Bristol,  and  Viscount  Townsend.  The  five 
last  noblemen  successively  held  the  Lord-Lieutenancy 
within  little  more  than  the  space  of  a  single  year,  from 


150  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17G7 

the  middle  of  May  1765  to  the  latter  end  of  July  1766. 
The  Irish  viceregency  had  been  usually  held  for  the 
term  of  three  years,  and  was  sometimes  enjoyed  for  six 
years.  Each  new  Lord- Lieutenant  received  a  douceur  of 
3,000/.  on  his  arrival  in  Dublin  from  the  Irish  treasury, 
as  an  '  outfit.' 

A  fulsome  eulogy  of  Lord  Townsend  having  appeared 
as  a  paragraph  in  other  London  papers,  lauding  his  lord- 
ship as  an  able  statesman,  a  good  soldier  and  orator,  an 
excellent  writer,  a  tried  patriot,  and  an  honest  man,  pro- 
duced a  second  letter  to  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  of 
August  28,  dated  also  from  St.  James's  Coffee  House, 
in  reply,  under  the  varied  signature  No  Ghost.  The  iden- 
tity of  the  writer  cannot  be  reasonably  doubted.  No 
Ghost  admits  that  Lord  Townsend  as  an  orator  excelled 
Demosthenes,  revives  the  old  scandal  of  Lord  Tpwnsend's 
incapacity  at  the  storming  of  the  citadel  of  Quebec, '  a 
building  so  elevated  that  Trajan's  pillar  was  a  ninepin  to 
it,'  his  patriotism  as  well-known  as  the  family  insincerity, 
&c.  No  Ghost  adds  a  postscript,  that  he  himself,  '  as  a 
stranger  to  Ireland,'  could  not  presume  to  anticipate  the 
estimation  of  the  new  Lord-Lieutenant  across  the  Irish 
Channel,  but  that  probably  Lord  Townsend  would  be  well 
received  for  his  attachment  to  the  Scotch  Lord  Bute,  and 
would  be  undoubtedly  welcomed  on  his  landing  by  every 
Irish  patriot  and  every  enemy  of  general  warrants.  No 
Ghost  was  clearly  written  in  support  of  the  Faithful 
Monitor  ;  both  writers  are  the  shadows  of  Francis  on  dif- 
ferent days  and  times.  The  same  ready  writer  was  probably 
also  the  author  of  a  lampoon  ridiculing  complaints  against 
anonymous  writers,  contained  in  a  long  letter  in  the '  Public 
Advertiser'  of  September  3,  signed  A  Constant  Corre- 
spondent. The  receipt  and  publication  of  the  latter  letter 
Woodfall  acknowledged  the  day  before  as  '  a  constant  cor- 


1767]  ATTACKS  ON  LORD  TOWNSEND.  151 

respondent's  favour  in  our  next.'  It  is  placed  first  as  usual. 
The  Constant  Correspondent  ironically  confesses  in  a 
postscript  that  he  has  written  413  letters  during  the  last 
sovereign's  short  reign  against  Lord  Bute  ;  287  against 

O  CJ  CJ  *  C 

Chatham ;  6  score  against  Lord  H ;  103  score  and  odd 

against  George  Grenville ;  76  against  the  Duke  of  Bedford  ; 
33  against  the  Duke  of  Newcastle ;  88  against  the  Marquis 

of  Eockingham  ;   1  against  the  Eight  Hon.  Mr.  D ; 

110  against  the  Duke  of  Grafton  and  the  Eight  Hon. 
General  Conway ;  above  2,000  against  the  Scotch, '  and 
none  against  the  Earl  of  Temple,  for  which  I  humbly  beg 
his  lordship's  pardon.'  These,  he  says,  were  independent 
of  innumerable  squibs,  epigrams,  prophecies,  paragraphs  of 
news  and  intelligences  extraordinary,  '  general  warrants,' 
&c.  He  then  satirically  enumerates  his  various  pretended 
signatures,  giving  the  names  of  the  principal  ministerial 
anonymous  writers  :  '  Modestus,  Probus,  Verus,  Algernon 
Sydney,  Eussell,  Impartial,  and  a  hundred  Antis.'  The 
common  origin  of  the  Faithful  Monitor,  No  Ghost,  and  the 
Constant  Correspondent  was  also  pointed  out  by  a  minis- 
terial writer  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  September  9, 
signing  himself  Philo-  Veritatis. 

After  the  lapse  of  a  fortnight,  and  the  intervening  inser- 
tion of  several  letters  in  defence  of  the  brothers  Townsend, 
their  untiring  opponent  renewed  his  assaults,  on  Septem- 
ber 16,  under  the  new  signature  of  Corregio.  Woodfall 
identifies  the  writer  in  the  same  paper,  as  follows :  '  Our 
correspondent  C.  will  observe  that  we  have  obeyed  his 
directions  in  every  particular,  and  we  shall  always  pay 
the  utmost  attention  to  whatever  comes  from  his  masterly 
pen.'  The  signature  Corregio  would  signify  the  contrast 
of  that  name  with  Lord  Townsend's  as  a  caricaturist. 
He  suggests  that  the  Townsend  scribblers  of  the  press 
should  sit  to  his  lordship  for  their  portraits.  Lord 


152  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17G7 

Northi ngton,  the  ex-chancellor,  is  attacked  for  his  well- 
known  inopportune  justification  of  the  dispensing  Privy 
Council  order  prohibiting  the  export  of  corn.  Lord 
Shelburne  is  satirised,  as  wearing  a  countenance  'sufficient' 
in  a  single  line  of  his  face  '  to  give  us  the  heir  apparent  of 
Loyola  and  all  the  College.'  Lord  Bute  and  the  Princess 
of  Wales  by  innuendo  occupy  prominent  figures  on  the 
canvass  of  Correyio.  For  the  first  time  the  Secretary  at 
War,  Lord  Harrington,  is  introduced  by  Francis,  but  only 
leniently  treated,  with  the  Commander-in  Chief  the  Marquis 
of  Granby,  as  two  members  of  the  administration '  seeming 
to  pull  at  two  ends  of  a  rope.'  Chatham  is  lampooned  as  '  a 
lunatic  brandishing  a  crutch,'  or l  bawling  through  a  gate,' 
or  'writing  with  desperate  charcoal  a  letter  to  North 
America.'1  Scotch  clerks  and  Scotch  secretaries  are  satir- 
ised ;  and  Lord  Townsend,  on  the  throne  of  Dublin  Castle, 
is  in  person  and  manners  portrayed  as  an  object  of 
ridicule  in  Ireland, '  if  in  the  midst  of  their  distresses  they 
can  laugh  at  the  perfect  caricature  of  a  king.'  Sir 
Gilbert  Elliot  was  at  this  time  Irish  Secretary,  and  he  is 
wittily  designated  as  a  '  Scotch  secretary  teaching  the 
Irish  people  the  true  pronunciation  of  the  English  language.' 
The  worst  jobs  of  the  ministry  had  been  the  appointment 
of  two  joint  paymasters,  Sir  G.  Cooke  and  Mr.  T.  Towns- 
end  ;  one  of  whom  Correyio  depictures  as  having  '  a 
paper  stuck  upon  the  globe  of  his  eye,  and  a  label  out  of 
his  mouth,  No,  sir,  I  am  of  t'other  side,  sir'  Now  really 
many  of  Francis's  coarser  satires  were  simply  the  use  of 
popular  political  slang  of  the  day,  or  overcharged  pictures 

1  Lord  Chatham  himself  raised  this  simile.  In  a  speech  he  had  said : 
'  You  talk,  my  lords,  of  conquering  America — of  your  numerous  friends,  to 
annihilate  the  Congress — and  your  powerful  forces  to  disperse  her  army.  / 
might  as  well  talk  of  driving  tliem  before  me  with  this  crutch.'  Boyd,  in  his 
description  of  Chatham's  eloquence  and  use  of  familiar  examples,  observes, 
'  So  that  in  his  hand  even  the  crutch  became  a  weapon  of  oratory.' 


1767]  ATTACKS  ON   THE  MINISTRY.  153 

of  a  prose  caricaturist.  It  was  only  a  payment  of  Townsend 
in  his  own  coin.  In  the  same  style,  Hogarth  caricatured 
Wilkes,  and  Churchill  wrote  his  epistles ;  in  retalia- 
tion for  which  Hogarth  caricatured  Churchill  under  the 
form  of  a  canonical  bear,  with  a  club  and  a  pot  of 
beer.  If  any  reader  will  visit  the  British  Museum  col- 
lection of  prints,  and  inspect  the  capital  books  of  Lord 
Townsend's  own  amateur  caricatures,  he  will  discriminate 
between  modern  personal  political  libels  and  the  burlesques 
of  the  party  writers  of  these  former  days.  Corregio's 
object  was  to  break  up  the  Chatham  ministry,  not  princi- 
pally to  single  out  and  insult  Lord  Chatham. 

But  the  new  name  of  Corregio  did  not,  at  the  time  of 
publication,  impose  on  his  press  opponents.  They  raised 
the  vizor,  and  discovered  the  Faithful  Monitor  and  No 
Ghost  under  masks  changed  by  one  and  the  same  person. 
P/iilo-  Veritatis  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  September  29, 
opens  fire  on  the  clever  masquerader :  '  Oh !  oh !  Mr.  Cor- 
regio, why  you  have  changed  your  ground  as  well  as 
your  name  ;  that  artifice  won't  do ;  I'll  pursue  you  Mr.  No 
Ghost  till  I  reduce  you  to  a  shadow.  Why  your  stile 
is  as  easily  distinguished  as  the  devil  is  known  by  his 
cloven  foot.'  Still  no  opponent  succeeded  in  discovering 
Francis's  personal  identity,  and  throughout  his  numerous 
political  controversies  there  does  not  occur  even  a  guess 
at  the  real  name  of  a  writer  whose  skill  and  power  all  ac- 
knowledged, and  who  single  handed  fought  with  legions. 
Corregio  did  not  repeat  his  signature,  changing  it  to  that 
of  Moderator.1 

1  Corregio,  as  originally  published  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  contained  two 
reprehensible  loose  paragraphs.  These  were  omitted  in  a  collection  of  miscel- 
laneous letters  published  by  Mr.  WoodfaH's  son  in  1812  ;  and  they  were  very 
properly  omitted  in  all  subsequent  editions.  One  of  the  objectionable  figures 
is  quoted  by  Corregio  from  Aretino.  Now  Francis's  library  contained  several 
editions  of  the  works  of  the  loose  Venetian  Amicreon,  the  possession  of  few 
English  political  writers  of  that  time. 


154  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

No  Ghost  having  been  again  attacked  by  Philo-  Veritatis 
on  Oct.  6,  appeared,  as  in  his  metamorphosis  to  Corregio 
in  another  new  character — that  of  a  pretended  third  per- 
son as  umpire.  Moderator's  letter  is  a  witty  review  of 
the  correspondence  between  No  Ghost  and  Philo- Veritatis.1 
It  was  unquestionably  by  Francis,  as  five  years  afterwards 
he  used  part  of  the  letter  as  a  note  to  an  edition  of  some 
of  his  after  productions.  But  besides  that  fact,  Moderator 
displayed  his  familiarity  with  all  the  officers  of  the  Civil 
Service,  and  insinuated  that  Philo- Veritatis  was  one  of  the 
staff  of  Lord  Townsend,  and  that  his  lordship's  champion 
would  doubtless  be  soon  rewarded  for  his  officiousness 
*  with  one  of  those  pensions'  which  the  new  Lord-Lieu- 
tenant '  will  multiply  on  the  Irish  establishment.' 

A  fortnight  afterwards  the  chameleon  satirist  produced 
his  cleverest  and  most  effective  burlesque  of  the  miserable 
cabinet  and  its  new  Irish  Viceroy.  Though  unsigned, 
its  authorship  was  avowedly  from  the  well-known  pen 
of  C.  On  October  21,  Woodfall  promised  its  publication 
under  the  notices  to  correspondents  as  follows : — 

THE  GRAND  COUNCIL  on  ike  affairs  of  Ireland  after  eleven  adjourn- 
ments, is  come  to  hand  and  shall  have  a  place  in  our  next.  Our 
friend  and  correspondent,  C ,  will  always  find  the  utmost  attention 
paid  to  his  favours. 

Accordingly,  on  the  following  day,  the  article  appeared, 
occupying  two  columns.  It  was  a  political  farce  or  in- 
terlude, the  chief  ministers  of  State  being  the  dramatis 

1  The  next  probable,  though  not  certain,  appearance  of  our  Ghost  was  pre- 
ceded by  Woodfall's  notice  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  October  2  :  '  We  are 
obliged  to  our  old  and  constant  correspondent  for  intelligence  extraordinary 
from  Fundum  Rigyidos,  which  shall  be  inserted  in  to-morrow's  paper.'  The 
article,  a  series  of  burlesque,  and  some  '  loose '  though  witty  paragraphs  of 
pretended  news,  accordingly  appeared  in  the  next  day's  'Public  Advertiser.' 
The  object  of  the  entire  communication  was  the  ridicule  of  the  ministry  in  a 
strain  of  satire  and  fun  appreciable  by  the  more  vulgar  class  of  newspaper 
readers.  Part  of  the  art  of  Francis  was  to  appeal  to  all  classes,  and  he  knew 
that  numbers  constituted  '  Public  Opinion.' 


1767]  THE  GRAND   COUNCIL.  155 

personce.  No  satire  of  Swift,  Pope,  or  Churchill,  had  a 
greater  run  or  '  success,'  notwithstanding  its  ephemeral 
nature.  It  was  not  only  copied  into  almost  all  the  Lon- 
don and  provincial  journals  of  the  day,  but  reprinted  in 
the  magazines ;  and  it  found  a  permanent  place  in 
Almon's  '  Political  Eegister.' 1 

The  plot  is  a  supposed  cabinet  discussion  at  Lord 
Shelburne's  house  in  Hill  Street,  London,  between  Lord 
Northington,  President  of  the  Council ;  Lord  Camden, 
chancellor  ;  Mr.  Conway  and  Lord  Shelburne,  the  Nor- 
thern and  Southern  Secretaries ;  and  LordTownsend,  Lord- 
Lieutenant  of  Ireland ;  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  First  Lord  of 
the  Treasury,  being  absent,  '  detained  by  a  hurry  of  busi- 
ness at  Newmarket.'  Now  all  the  reasons  (besides  the 
private  use  to  Woodfall  of  his  initial  C.)for  fixing  Francis 
with  the  authorship  of  the  past  letters  of  a  Faithful  Moni- 
tor, Corregio,  and  Moderator,  apply  with  concentrated 
force  in  proof  of  his  being  also  the  wTiter  of  the  '  Grand 
Council.'  The  above  previous  letters,  and  Anti-Sejanus 
Jun.  are  all  from  the  same  mould.  The  persons  satirised  ; 
the  caricature  of  Lord  Townsend  ;  the  introduction  of 
'  our  sovereign  Laird  the  Earl  of  Bute  ; '  the  reflections  on 
Lord  Northington's  coarseness  and  peculiarities ;  on  Lord 

1  Almon's  'Political  Register,'  1767,  vol.  i.  p.  364.  In  the  same  vol.,  p. 
359,  is  published  a  letter  referring  to  this  newspaper  controversy,  dated  from 
Dublin,  October  7  ;  warning  the  Irish  people  against  placing  faith  in  Lord 
Townsend's  professions.  The  article  was  probably  from  the  pen  of  Francis. 
It  cites  Lord  Strafford's  letter  to  a  British  Minister,  advising  the  latter  that 
if  he  would  carry  any  new  or  extraordinary  point  he  must  send  over  a  new 
Lord-Lieutenant ;  for  to  such  the  Irish  are  ever  ready  to  pay  the  most 
servile  reverence  and  submission.  Francis  frequently  quoted  from  '  Straf- 
ford's State  Papers,'  and  possessed  a  copy  of  the  2nd  vol.  folio  ed.  of  1739. 
Almon-  prefixes  to  his  transfer  of  the  '  Grand  Council '  into  his  Political 
Register  the  heading,  '  The  following  paper  we  do  not  give  to  the  public  as 
an  original.  It  is  taken  from  the  "  Public  Advertiser;  "  it  being  a  part  of 
our  plan  to  register  whatever,  with  submission  to  the  public  judgment,  we 
apprehend  to  be  too  valuable  or  entertaining  to  be  doomed  to  oblivion,  indis- 
criminately with  the  fugitive  pieces  of  the  day.'  The  Dublin  letter  pre- 
cedes the  Grand  Council  article. 


150  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

Camden's  inconsistency ;  on  Lord  Holland,  and  the  tender 
treatment  of  that  nobleman  ;'  the  contempt  for  the  youth- 
ful horse-racing  Duke  of  Grafton ;  the  writer's  intimate 
acquaintance  with  Ireland,  his  native  land;  his  satire 
on  Lord  George  Sackville,  and  his  Portuguese  associations 
as  to  the  Jesuit  order — all  denote  Francis  as  the  author  of 
the  lampoon.  Moreover,  his  singular  and  long-continued 
fault  in  composition,  in  the  excessive  use  and  alliteration  of 
the  preposition  to,  abounds  throughout  the'  Grand  Coun- 
cil '  article. 

Of  course  much  of  the  '  point '  of  this  political  prose 
satire  after  the  lapse  of  a  century  has  vanished,  and  some 
of  the  finer  touches  and  allusions  are  now  obscure;  but, 
notwithstanding  the  exaggerations  of  a  caricature,  its  per- 
manent value  consists  in  the  general  truth  and  spirit  of  its 
portraits  of  six  principal  public  men  of  the  time  drawn  by 
a  master  hand.  It  is  curious  that  there  is  no  allusion  to 
Lord  Chatham  ;  and  that  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  after  being 
noted  as  absent  at  Newmarket,  is  left  alone.  Probably 
this  truce  with  the  two  principal  heads  of  the  ministry 
was  in  order  to  show  more  prominently  the  lower  stature 
of  the  secondary  members. 

This  hard  anti-ministerial  blow  has  always  been  sup- 
posed to  have  been  countered  by  a  ministerial  parody  on 
the  '  Grand  Council '  in  the  same  newspaper  six  days 
afterwards.  But  a  critical  examination  of  the  rejoinder 
fixes  it  much  more  probably  as  the  continued  satire  of 
the  same  writer.  It  was  certainly  one  of  the  arts  of  Fran- 
cis sometimes  to  answer  fictitiously  his  own  letters,  by 

1  Lord  Shelburne,  satirised  for  his  insincerity  at  Malagrida,  is  made  to 
say :  '  My  Lord  Holland,  who  certainly  had  some  reason  to  know  me,  has 
done  me  the  honour  to  say  that  I  was  born  a  Jesuit,  and  that  if  all  the  good 
qualities  which  make  the  Society  of  Jesus  respectable  were  banished  from 
the  rest  of  the  earth  they  would  still  find  room  enough  in  the  bosom  of 
Malagrida.' 


1767]  THE  GKAND  COUNCIL.  157 

which  device  he  not  only  replied  to  weak  arguments  but 
secured  the  last  word. 

On  October  27,  Woodfall,  in  the  address  to  correspon- 
dents, has  the  following  notice  : — 

What  DID  pass  at  a  Grand  Council  in  Hill  Street  on  the  7th  of 
October  should,  if  its  extraordinary  length  would  permit,  have  ap- 
peared this  day  as  desired.  It  shall  certainly  be  inserted  in  our 
next. 

The  editor  displays  the  same  prompt  attention  to  his 
old  correspondent ;  and  the  second  satire,  given  the  first 
place  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  the  following  day,  is 
almost  palpably  the  twin  of  the '  Grand  Council '  of  the  pre- 
vious week.  An  examination  of  the  second  entire  article 
will  satisfy  any  reader  that  it  was  not  really  written  in 
defence  of  the  administration,  though  pretendedly  a  vin- 
dication.1 The  twofold  object  appears  to  have  been  to 
insinuate  that  Edmund  Burke  was  the  author  of  the 
'  Grand  Council '  (as  a  false  scent) ;  and  to  represent  the 
Eockingham  party  as  anxious  to  join  the  Chatham  ministry, 
but  as  too  contemptible  for  such  a  coalition.  Francis  at 
this  time  had  no  personal  acquaintance  with  Burke,  and 
viewed  him  only  in  the  light  of  a  political  adventurer  and 
paid  pamphleteer ;  and  Burke  had  then  made  no  figure 
in  the  House  of  Commons.  Francis  better  preserved  his 
incog,  by  giving  the  credit  of  his  first  article  to  the  author 
of  the  '  Sublime  and  Beautiful,'  and  the  second  satire  also 
enabled  him  to  launch  a  third.  Accordingly  a  third 
article,  unacknowledged  by  Woodfall  and  unsigned  by  the 
writer,  appeared  in  the  'Public  Advertiser'  of  the  31st. 
In  this  letter,  an  answer  to  the  second,  he  of  course  affects 
to  reply  to  a  different  person  than  himself. 

The  next   communication  is  heralded  by  the  follow- 

1  In  five  sentences  of  fifteen  lines  the  preposition  to  is  used  nine  times. 


158  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

ing  notice  to  C.  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  November 
30:- 

C.'s  favour  is  come  to  hand,  and  we  think  our  paper  much 
honoured  by  his  correspondence.  He  may  be  assured  we  shall  take 
every  possible  means  to  deserve  a  continuance  of  it. 

But  after  a  day's  consideration  of  the  article,  the  editor 
appears  to  have  feared  the  libellous  character  of  some 
part,  and  on  December  1  inserted  a  second  notice  to  the 
author  : — 

We  most  heartily  wish  to  oblige  our  valuable  correspondent  C. ; 
but  his  last  favour  is  of  so  delicate  a  nature  that  we  dare  not  insert  it 
unless  we  are  permitted  to  make  such  changes  in  certain  expressions 
as  may  take  off  the  immediate  offence,  without  hurting  the  meaning. 

After  four  days'  interval,  owing  probably  to  the  editor 
awaiting  C.'s  permission  to  make  the  proposed  alterations 
or  to  return  the  manuscript  for  C.'s  own  correction,  the 
paper  appeared  announced  as  ajeu  d?  esprit. 

This  article  was  the  report  of  a  real  or  pretended  speech 
in  the  House  of  Commons  on  the  opening  of  Parliament, 
and  the  discussion  of  the  King's  speech  in  November  of 
this  year  ;  but  the  reporter  or  writer  did  not  indicate  the 
member  into  whose  mouth  the  speech  was  put.  It  was 
prefaced  by  a  note  to  the  editor,  in  which  the  speech  is  de- 
scribed as  '  a  mere  jeu  d' esprit '  spoken  at  a  meeting  of  a 
political  club,  and  as  an  entertainment  for  the  readers  of 
the  '  Public  Advertiser.'  As  such  it  would  have  passed, 
and  as  one  of  the  assaults  of  C.  on  the  ministry ;  but  some 
curious  circumstances  have  created  a  mystery  not  fully 
explained.  The  article  as  appears  by  asterisks,  by  omission 
of  passages,  and  by  the  evident  alteration  of  some  para- 
graphs, had  been  clearly  corrected  either  by  Woodfall  or  by 
the  author.  It  afterwards  appeared  in  the  '  Gentleman's 
Magazine '  of  the  following  month,  the  prefatory  matter 
altered  into  the  title  '  A  Eemarkable  Speech  at  the  opening 


1707]  THE  GRAND   COUNCIL.  159 

of  a  late  S n  ;'  and  with  the  omission  of  all  club  and 

mock  parliamentary  terms.  This  liberty  the  editor  of  the 
latter  periodical  would  hardly  take ;  and  the  variations 
were  probably  made  by  or  with  the  privity  of  the  writer. 
But  however  the  fact,  the  speech  again  appeared  in  1772 
in  Almon's  'Political  Eegister.'  At  that  period  the 
debates  in  Parliament  were  more  fully  reported  (their 
publicity  having  been  then  conceded)  and  the  names  of 
the  speakers  were  fully  given.  Almon's  republication  of 
the  Burke  speech  contained  the  passages  omitted  in 
Woodfall's  original  publication  of  the  '  jeu  d' esprit.'  This 
completed  reprint  must  have  come  from  C.  or  from  the 
speaker ;  but,  curiously,  the  speech  for  the  first  time  is  given 
as  Mr.  Burke's  ;  and,  to  complete  the  puzzle,  it  has  since 
been  adopted  as  Burke's  first  reported  speech ;  and  so  it 
has  continued  to  appear  in  all  editions  of  his  speeches  and 
in  '  Hansard's  Parliamentary  Debates.'  It  is,  however, 
doubtful  whether  it  was  delivered  by  him.  Certainly  it 
is  not  in  his  usual  style  ;  and  if  substantially  spoken  by 
him  it  must,  from  Francis's  style,  have  been  reported  by 
Francis  and  from  memory.  Francis  frequently  attended 
the  debates  in  both  houses,  and  was  several  times  present 
on  the  delivery  of  royal  speeches,  opening  sessions  of 
Parliament.  The  speech  in  question  was  a  commentary  on 
the  royal  speech  of  November.  The  jeu  d 'esprit  betrays 
its  origin.  It  contains  several  peculiar  phraseologies  of 
Francis,  and  in  its  11  octavo  pages  the  repetition  of  to 
occurs  seventy-six  times !  But  an  omission  in  Almon's 
report  of  a  passage  originally  published  in  the  '  Public  Ad- 
vertiser '  is  remarkable  as  fixing  the  authorship.  The 
entire  paragraph  is  as  follows,  and  it  affords  an  example 
of  the  preposition  so  profusely  used  by  C. : — 

But  I  am  a  little  inclined  to  suspect,  and  indeed  it  is  an  opinion 
too  generally  received,  that  this  appearance  of  good  understanding 


160  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

with  our  neighbours  deserves  the  name  of  stagnation  rather  than 
tranquillity  ;  that  it  is  owing  not  so  much  to  the  success  of  our 
negotiations  abroad,  as  to  the  absolute  and  entire  suspension  of  them 
for  a  very  considerable  time.  Consuls,  envoys,  and  ambassadors,  it 
is  true,  have  been  regularly  appointed,  but,  instead  of  repairing  to 
their  stations,  have,  in  the  most  scandalous  manner,  loitered  at 
home  ;  as  if  they  had  either  no  business  to  do,  or  were  afraid  of 
exposing  themselves  to  the  resentment  or  derision  of  the  court,  to 
which  they  were  destined.  Thus  have  all  our  negotiations  with 
Portugal  been  conducted,  and  thus  have  they  been  dropped.  Thus 
hath  the  Manilla  Ransom,  that  once  favourite  theme,  that  perpetual 
echo  with  some  gentlemen,  been  consigned  to  oblivion. 

Almon's  report  omits  the  words  '  with  Portugal.1  Who 
but  Francis  himself  would  have  made  such  an  omission  ? 
The  King's  speech,  supposed  to  have  been  answered  by 
Burke,  had  made  no  allusion  to  Portugal.  It  has  been 
seen  that  that  was  Francis's  special  subject ;  and  probably 
he  on  second  thoughts  erased  words  which  might  point  to 
the  authorship  of  his  jeucT esprit.  Almon's  edition  of  the 
Parliamentary  Debates,  with  the  omission,  was  published 
in  1792.  Almon's  life  of  Lord  Chatham  and  anecdotes 
were  published  in  the  same  year  as  the  debates,  and 
Francis  contributed  portions  of  the  biography.1  Nor  is 
this  fact  the  only  corroboration  of  the  identity  of  Y.  Z. 
and  Francis.  His  own  collection  of  pamphlets  contained 
copies  of  Sir  William  Draper's  Manilla  Ransom  publica- 
tions ;  and  Francis's  folio  manuscript  volumes  contain 
copies  of  Draper's  manuscript  letters  from  1762  to  the 
government,  claiming  redress  for  himself  and  the  army  he 
commanded  when  Manilla  was  captured  but  restored  to 
Spain,  on  the  undertaking  of  that  nation  to  pay  a  stipulated 
ransom,  never  discharged,  but  released  by  our  then  in- 
glorious diplomacy.  It  would  be  superfluous  to  add  more 

1  Francis's  copy  of  Almon's  '  Life  of  Chatham  '  was  sold  at  the  sale  of  his 
library  in  1838.  This  copy  contained  a  manuscript  note  in  his  own  hand, 
pointing  the  parts  written  by  himself. 


1767]  WAR  OFFICE  CORRESPONDENCE.  161 

in  proof  of  the  identity  of  Francis  and  the  author  of  this 
particular  article  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  whether  Fran- 
cis partly  reported  a  true  speech  of  Burke  or  the  whole 
was  only  ajeu  d 'esprit. 

On  the  18th  December  the  'Public  Advertiser'  announced 
an  unsigned  letter,  in  a  notice  that  '  C.'s  favour  is  come 
to  hand.'  Accordingly,  there  is  no  mistaking  the  same 
authorship  of  a  vehement  bitter  attack  on  Lord  Chatham, 
in  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  the  19th,  as  the  origin  of  the 
early  disputes  with  our  American  colonies.  It  attributed 
the  evil  to  his  lordship's  early  denial  of  the  mother  country's 
right  to  tax  them,  and  vouchsafed  a  corresponding  eulogy  to 
the  policy  of  Mr.  G.  Grenville.  The  writer,  in  withering 
remarks,  shows  that  the  repeal  of  the  Stamp  Act  with  the 
imposition  of  other  taxes  by  the  Chatham  administration 
naturally  occasioned  the  subsequent  association  in  Boston, 
Massachusetts,  against  the  import  or  consumption  of  British 
goods.  Francis  was  thoroughly  acquainted  with  all  the 
details  of  this  Transatlantic  combination.  Our  military 
commanders  in  the  Transatlantic  states  at  that  period  regu- 
larly forwarded  their  despatches  to  the  War  Office.  Almost 
all  these  despatches  are  endorsed  in  Francis's  hand,  as 
received  on  the  several  days  on  which  each  despatch 
reached  the  War  Office.  Lord  Barrington's  answers  also  are 
extant,  drafted  by  Francis.  The  Boston  combination  was 
early  and  particularly  detailed  by  the  military  governor. 
Nevertheless  Francis  cannot  be  charged  with  more  than 
his  own  independent  commentaries  on  public  events,  as 
in  no  instance  had  he  divulged  any  office  confidence.1 
There  is  not  the  most  distant  allusion,  in  his  cotemporaneous 

1  For  years  these  War  Office  valuable  papers  have  remained  unexamined 
and  unused  by  the  historians  of  both  countries,  though  they  cast  much  light 
on  our  colonial  history  during  Francis's  clerkship  in  the  War  Office. 

VOL.  I.  M 


1G2  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1707 

newspaper  contributions,  to  any  of  the  particular  details 
in  the  War  Office  despatches.  But  the  news  of  the  Boston 
combination  had  evidently  fired  the  mind  of  Francis,  and 
induced  an  outburst  of  passionate  declamation  against  the 
ministry  for  its  vacillating  policy ;  urging  the  home  go- 
vernment to  act  with  prompt  decision,  and  to  coerce  the 
colonies  into  obedience ;  and  if  the  existing  laws  were 
insufficient,  by  new  legislation  to  obtain  fresh  powers ; 
otherwise  he  predicted  their  early  and  successful  revolt. 
Francis  held  high  notions  of  the  right  of  the  mother 
country  to  tax  the  colonies.  He  was  wrong  in  his 
prescribed  remedy  of  coercion,  but  right  in  condemning  the 
indecisive  and  vacillating  course  of  the  ministry ;  and  his 
sagacity  foresaw  the  consequences  in  an  early  separation. 
He  lived,  however,  to  make  in  Parliament,  years  after- 
wards, an  honourable  recantation  of  his  earlier  opinions 
on  the  great  American  question. 

The  following  letter  of  Francis  to  his  brother-in-law, 
Alexander  Mackrabie,  singularly  proves  by  its  contents 
that  all  the  subject  matters  of  his  news  and  enclosures  to 
Woodfall  of  the  day  before  were  penned  to  that  relative, 
who,  as  we  shall  presently  see,  had  sailed  for  the  other 

side  of  the  Atlantic  : — 

i 

War  Office,  December  5,  1767. 

Dear  Brother, — As  long  as  it  remained  uncertain  whether  you 
were  floating  upon  the  surface,  or  lying  flat  on  your  back  at  the 
bottom  of  the  sea,  I  thought  it  in  vain  to  continue  writing  to  you. 
But  now  that  I  understand  by  your  first  letter  from  Philadelphia, 
that  you  are  man  in  esse  as  well  as  in  posse,  you  shall  find  me  as 
regular  in  my  correspondence  as  the  'Monthly  Review,'  and  perhaps 
as  full  of  matter.  The  letter  you  mention  to  have  written  from  the 
Madeiras  never  came  to  hand.  I  should  think  your  landing  there 
must  have  been  a  very  agreeable  circumstance,  both  as  a  relief  from 
the  sea,  and  a  prospect  of  new  faces.  You  ought  to  have  told  me 
in  what  manner  you  were  received  by  my  unknown  cousins,  of  whom 
I  understand  there  is  a  plentiful  crop  at  the  place  where  you  find 


1767]  LETTER  TO   MACRABIE  IN  AMERICA.  1G3 

yourself.  Are  they  civil  to  you,  and  do  you  spend  your  time 
agreeably  ?  Tench  Francis  tells  me  that  the  principal  house  with 
which  you  had  business  to  transact  has  stopped  payment,  and  that 
probably  your  return  will  be  sooner  than  you  expected.  Yet  I 
could  wish  you,  and  I  daresay  you  would  find  it  in  every  respect  more 
eligible,  to  stay  abroad  for  a  few  years,  if  anything  material  or  any 
useful  plan  were  to  offer.  Everything  here  is  almost  in  the  same 
state  in  which  you  left  it.  I  take  for  granted  that  your  letters 
from  Fulham  will  give  you  a  copious  account  of  everything  that 
relates  to  the  family  there.  I  have  not  given  them  any  hint  of  your 
having  left  twenty  pounds  in  my  hands  ;  nor  do  I  intend,  untill  it 
may  be  absolutely  necessary.  For  myself  I  think  I  have  done  as 
much  as  could  be  expected  from  me,  in  allowing  them  twenty 
pounds  a  year ;  at  least  I  am  sure  it  is  as  much  as  I  could  afford. 
Mr.  Chandler  promises  the  same  annuity,  yet  I  do  not  see  how  it  will 
be  possible  for  them  to  subsist  upon  less  than  a  hundred  pounds  a 
year  after  their  house-rent  is  paid,  and  I  do  not  see  much  chance  of 
their  getting  such  an  annuity. 

I  have  sent  you  a  '  Court  Calendar '  for  1768 ;  it  is  committed  to  the 
care  of  Mr.  Dodd,  who  has  promised  to  put  it  on  board  some  .... 

[Two  pages  cut  out.] 

....  General  Gage's  secretary  and  factotum,  and  will  I  daresay 
be  very  ready  to  introduce  you  in  the  best  manner  to  Mr.  Gage, 
when  your  affairs  shall  call  you  to  New  York.  I  did  not  see  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst's  letter  to  Gage,  but  I  take  for  granted  it  was  a 
handsome  one.  I  shall  leave  all  chitchat  to  your  sister,  who  is 
indicting  a  long  letter  of  that  sort  to  you. 

We  are  in  hourly  expectation  of  some  farther  alterations  in  the 
ministry,  by  introducing  some  of  the  opposing  parties  into  place. 
We  are  just  informed  of  a  very  extraordinary  combination  entered 
into  at  Boston  by  all  the  principal  inhabitants,  not  to  use  any  ono 
article  of  English  growth  or  manufacture  :  such  are  fruits  of  our  in- 
dulgence. But  as  to  you,  sir,  I  insist  upon  it  that  you  neither  make 
yourself  a  party  man  nor  politician. 

My  father  has  had  the  misfortune  of  a  stroke  of  the  palsy,  which 
seized  him  all  over  about  a  fortnight  ago  at  Bath :  he  is  now  pretty 
well  recovered.  I  am  going  to  Bath  in  the  course  of  next  week  to 
spend  the  Christmas  holidays.  Mrs.  Chandler  I  suppose  is  now  at 
the  summit  of  her  wishes,  for  Mr.  Chandler  has  bought  a  house 
in  Bruton  Street,  Berkeley  Square.  When  he  has  made  the  altera- 
tions he  intends  in  it,  it  will  really  be  fit  for  a  nobleman. 

M  2 


164  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

Governor  Hamilton  I  suppose  is  as  hot  as  ginger  and  pepper, 
since  a  woman  of  forty  or  fifty  can  set  him  on  fire. 

Now,  my  dear  fellow,  I  think  I  have  nothing  more  to  add,  but 
my  warmest  wishes  for  your  happiness  and  success. 

Adieu,  adieu  ! 

P.  FBANCIS. 

Henceforward  you  may  depend  upon  my  writing  to  you  by  every 
pacquet,  and  I  wish  you  would  take  every  opportunity  of  letting  us 
know  how  you  go  on. 

The  freshest  political  intelligence  is— that  the  Earl  of  North- 
ington,  Shelburne,  and  General  Conway,  are  to  go  out — Earl 
Gower  to  be  President  of  the  Council — Earl  of  Sandwich  and 
Viscount  Weymouth  to  be  Secretaries  of  State — Mr.  Rigby,  Secretary 
at  War,  and  Lord  Harrington  Vice-treasurer  of  Ireland.  Boom  to 
be  made  as  occasion  offers  for  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  friends. 

Don't  quote  me  for  this. 

In  this  month  the  headless  administration  rocked  to  its 
foundations.  Lord  Chatham  had  either  temporarily  lost  his 
nerves,  or  from  ill  humour  and  disease  left  the  helm.  The 
vessel  of  the  State  was  drifting  without  a  pilot.  A  letter  of 
Lord  Chesterfield's  of  December  19, 1767,  from  Bath,  gives 
a  melancholy  account  of  the  great  earl :  *  His  physician 

Dr. ,  as  I  am  told,  had  very  ignorantly  checked 

a  coming  fit  of  the  gout,  and  scattered  it  about  his  body. 
It  fell  particularly  on  his  nerves,  so  that  he  continues  ex- 
ceedingly vapourish,  and  would  neither  see  nor  speak  to 
anybody  while  he  was  here.'  A  ministerial  crisis  was 
clearly  at  hand.  The  press  was  enlisted  by  the  different 
out  sections  of  the  Whig  party,  making  offerings  of  al- 
liance. The  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  the  21st  published  a 
letter,  dated  from  Pall  Mall,  under  the  signature  of 
Macaroni  Whisper.  The  writer  lamented  and  condemned 
the  venomous  attacks  on  Chatham,  admitted  the  weakness 
of  the  men  in  power,  asserting  that  new  blood  was  cer- 
tainly essential  to  their  continuance  in  office.  After  re- 
viewing the  public  men  in  the  opposition  depot,  Macaroni 


1767]  ILLNESS  OF  DR.  FRANCIS.  105 

stated  that  overtures  were  pending  ;  that  the  '  terms '  of 
'  a  very  upright  and  respectable  Marquis  were  found  so 
exorbitant  as  to  be  totally  inadmissible  ; '  that  '  as  to  the 
Stowe  faction,'  its  leader  (Lord  Temple)  was  so  devoted  to 
his  '  American  hobby  horse '  that  '  nobody  would  coalesce 
with  him ; '  and  thai;  the  only  alternative  was  '  the  con- 
nection of  Bl — ry  House  ; 1  persons  of  as  great  property 
and  abilities  as  the  other  two  parties,  but  more  moderate 
in  their  demands.'  Macaroni  in  this  answer  of  hear- 
say is  eulogistic  of  poor  Lord  Chatham,  and  says  the 
latter  letter  was  a  mere  '  fling  at  a  certain  great  states- 
man, to  whom  this  country  owed  more  than  it  can  ever 
repay.' 

This  attack  on  the  next  day  produced  in  the  '  Public 
Advertiser,'  of  December  22,  an  answer  to  Macaroni, 
with  a  changed  signature.  From  that  old  device  and 
from  the  sarcastic  point  of  the  reply,  it  is  almost  cer- 
tainly by  Francis. 

The  domestic  history  of  Francis  during  this  year  affords 
no  particular  private  incident,  except  his  father's  prema- 
ture decay  through  the  grievous  misfortune  of  a  severe 
attack  of  partial  paralysis.  A  letter  from  Dr.  Francis 
to  the  son,  of  October  20,  1766,  had  reported  him  as 
'  very  feeble  and  languid.'  In  the  following  letter,  No- 
vember 22,  1767,  the  afflicted  parent,  in  an  altered  and 
broken  hand,  thus  describes  his  sad  condition  : — 

Bath,  November  22,  1767. 

I  will  if  possible  scrawl  a  few  lines  to  thank  my  dear  Phil,  for 
his  very  affectionate  letter  to  Sally.  The  simpleton  would  write  to 
you,  but  since  you  well  know — struck  with  palsy  from  head  to  foot, 
blooded,  blistered,  packed,  purged,  with  a  thousand  horrible  &cs.  I 
believe*the  malignity  of  the  distemper  is  past,  though  not  its  effects. 


1  Bloomsbury  House  :  the  Bedford  party. 


166  MEMOIRS 'OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1767 

Farewell !     All  my  wishes  to  your  wife  and  little  ones.     To  Dobson, 
Bruce,  Adair,  Wade,  and  Calcraft.     Farewell ! 

Yrs.  with  all  affection, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

Remember  poor  Molly  for  me. 
Compliments  to  Mr.  D'Oyley. 
Be  so  good  as  to  send  me  half  a  pound  of  16s.  green  tea. 

In  a  subsequent  one,  the  Doctor  wrote  more  cheerfully 
of  himself: — 

Bath,  December  1,  1767. 

Well  then,  my  dear  Phil.,  I  will  talk  no  more  of  what  you  call  these 
trifling  offices  of  kindness.  However,  give  me  leave  to  thank  you 
that  I  have  this  morning  been  two  hours  abroad  in  a  chair  ;  that  I 
am  able  to  walk  creepingly  without  crutches,  and  that  I  .threaten 
once  more  to  see  London  and  Chelsea.  PC  or  Mr.  D'Oyley  ! — all  my 
best  -wishes  to  him.  A  little  fatigued  with  my  morning  journey. 
This  may  be  a  fatiguing  epistle,  but  it  shall  not  be  a  long  one.  Yet 
indeed  I  have  not  head  enough  to  write  a  shorter.  Let  me  only 
thank  you  for  your  newspaper.  When  I  was  able  I  went  to  the  coffee 
house,  for  it's  one  of  our  amusements  to  know  what  you  good  folks 
are  doing  in  the  great  city.  Farewell,  and  know  me  to  be  always 

yours, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

I  send  you  Mr.  Macro's  letter,  though  there  be  no  greater  matter 
in  it,  but  the  very  obliging  kindness  of  it. 

It  is  evident  that  this  calamity  of  the  Doctor  had  now 
reconciled  the  father  and  son. 

Philip's  brother-in-law,  Alexander  Mackrabie,  in  the 
mid-year  had  left  England,  for  a  managing  clerkship  in  a 
British  mercantile  house  in  Philadelphia.  As  an  only 
brother  of  Mrs.  Francis,  and  the  closest  friend  of  her 
husband,  this  separation  was  severely  felt  by  both  the 
families.  But  they  maintained  a  constant  and  highly 
interesting  correspondence  from  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic. 
The  fortunate  preservation  of  some  of  Philip  Francis's 
letters  to  Mackrabie  will  hereafter  cast  much  light  on  his 
private  and  political  career.  The  parents  of  Mackrabie, 
residing  at  Fulham,  were  not  in  affluent  circumstances  ; 


1767]  DUTIES  IN  THE  WAR  OFFICE.  167 

but,  as  we  have  seen,  Francis  and  his  brother-in-law  made  a 
contribution  towards  their  more  comfortable  maintenance. 
Fulham  also  was  a  pleasant  and  salubrious  suburb  of 
London,  where  on  Sundays  and  '  sick  days  '  the  infants  of 
Francis  could  be  received  by  the  maternal  grandparents, 
whom  Francis  and  his  wife  also  frequently  visited  on 
Sundays. 

.  Some  letters  from  D'Oyly  (the  under  Secretary  at 
War)  to  Francis  record  most  affectionate  friendship  be- 
tween the  two.  In  their  occasional  vacations  they  were 
never  both  absent  from  the  office  at  the  same  time,  but 
always  exchanging  letters.  Neither  Lord  Barrington  nor 
Mr.  D'Oyly  were  very  grammatical  or  ready  writers. 
The  correspondence  of  the  War  Office,  as  appears  by 
the  existing  drafts  of  the  letters,  was  chiefly  the  work  of 
Francis.  He  endorsed  in  his  own  hand  almost  all  the 
mass  of  the  public  letters  and  despatches  received.  The 
letters  received  were  sometimes,  but  not  commonly,  '  cor- 
nered '  by  Lord  Barrington  in  brief  notes  for  the  substance 
of  reply  ;  but  Francis's  drafts  were  hardly  ever  verbally 
altered  by  the  viscount;  and  as  rarely  added  to,  even  by  a 
few  sentences.  Francis's  drafts  were  penned  on  folio  office 
paper,  in  half  margin,  and  with  singularly  few  alterations 
or  corrections  in  the  originals.  Lord  Barrington's  and 
D'Oyly's  chief  avocations  appear  to  have  been  giving  au- 
dience to  the  numerous  military  and  agency  gentlemen 
and  colonial  officers  who  more  or  less  daily,  or  on  fixed 
periodical  times,  visited  the  office.  There  were  reception 
days.  In  the  absence  of  Lord  Barrington  and  Mr.  D'Oyly 
from  London,  Francis  acted  as  their  representative  in  this 
duty.  Thus  Francis  became  intimately  personally  familiar 
with  not  only  the  entire  military  system  of  the  country, 
but  with  all  the  men  of  military,  commissariat,  and  colonial 
rank,  who  in  their  professional  avocations  frequented  the 


168  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1707 

office.  The  War  Office  records  also  show  that  Francis  often 
managed  the  matters  preliminary  to  courts  martial,  on 
which  the  Secretary  of  War  advised  with  the  Crown 
Counsel.  Although  the  Commissary  Department  was  then 
a  distinct  office,  the  rooms  adjoined,  and  were  connected 
with  those  of  the  War  Office  in  Whitehall ;  the  former,  in 
fact,  being  an  adjunct  of  the  latter.  All  the  letters  from 
both  departments  were  daily  transcribed  into  folio  and 
indexed  copy-books.  These  of  the  period,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  one  volume,  are  still  preserved.  The  original 
letters  and  despatches  received  at  the  War  Office  are 
not  so  completely  extant ;  but  the  majority  were  bound 
in  volumes.  In  the  absence  of  his  superiors  Francis 
frequently  answered  letters  in  his  own  name ;  and  on 
business  details  of  the  department,  the  chief  official  clerks 
of  other  public  departments  occasionally  addressed  their 
letters  to  Francis  personally.  D'Oyly  and  Francis  divided 
between  them  the  War  Office  business  ;  and  when  either 
was  absent  from  London,  the  particular  business  of  the 
absent  clerk  was  sometimes  franked  to  him  for  his  ex- 
planation, or  for  his  direct  reply  to  letters.  At  this  time 
the  official  seals  were  the  arms  of  the  individual  heads  of 
the  offices ;  and  each  chief,  on  his  first  taking  office,  had 
the  privilege  of  a  gratuitous  supply  to  him  of  duplicate 
engraved  seals  for  the  separate  use  of  the  principal  clerks. 
Thus  D'Oyly  and  Francis  each  had  a  seal  of  Lord  Bar- 
rington's  coat  of  arms. 

Doubtless  Francis  from  his  early  and  constant  intimacy 
with  Mr.  Wood,  the  business  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
(whose  offices  were  adjacent  buildings  to  the  Whitehall 
War  and  Commissariat  Offices),  had  the  means  of  daily 
intercourse  with  his  old  patron.  So  that  few  or  no 
young  public  officers  could  have  had  more  opportunities 
of  political  information.  With  Mr.  Calcraft,  both  before 


1767]  WAR  OFFICE  DUTIES.  100 

and  after  that  gentleman's  change  of  party,  Francis  .had 
further  constant  and  confidential  intercourse.  Mr.  Cal- 
craft,  from  1763  to  his  death  in  1772,  maintained  personal 
and  epistolary  communication  with  Lord  Chatham  ;  and 
Dr.  Francis  was  intimate  with  the  Holland  and  Bute  parties. 
Francis  therefore  was  much  behind  the  scenes  of  all 
the  different  parties ;  and  with  the  advantage  of  not  being 
the  partisan  of  either,  or  of  any  particular  political 
leader  and  being  unknown  as  a  contributor  to  the  public 
press. 


170  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 


CHAPTER  V. 

FRANCIS   AND   THE    PRESS — continued. 

\_JEi.  28.] 

Anonymous  Letters  to  Lord  Chatham,  1768 — Wilkes's  Election  for 
Middlesex — Memnon — Bifrons — Note  on  the  burning  of  the  Jesuit 
Books. 

THE  new  year,  1768,  thus  opened  with  the  King's  govern- 
ment in  a  state  of  chaos,  and  amid  the  cabals  and  intrigues 
of  public  men  in  and  out  of  office.  No  minister  felt  secure 
of  his  official  tenure,  and  every  aspirant  to  power  and  rank 
hoped  to  realise  his  ambition.  Lord  Chesterfield,  in  a 
private  letter  of  December  27,  had  truly  remarked  that 
'  it  seemed  to  be  a  resolution  taken  by  somebody,  that 
ministries  are  to  be  annual.'  Almost  all  the  colleagues  of 
Lord  Chatham  behind  his  back,  and  in  their  private 
correspondence  with  friends,  declared  against  the  earl's 
reticence  and  his  retention  of  the  Privy  Seal  when  he  was 
either  pretending  illness,  or  really  from  disease  incapable 
of  discharging  his  official  duties.  Of  the  deplorable  state 
of  his  health  there  can,  however,  be  no  doubt.  Never- 
theless the  majority  of  his  cabinet  in  their  letters  to 
him  and  Lady  Chatham  were  fulsome  and  fawning.  The 
third  volume  of  the  '  Chatham  Correspondence '  contains 
proofs  of  this  insincerity.  Lord  Shelburne,  in  a  letter 
to  Lady  Chatham,  of  December  13,  1767,  tells  her 
ladyship  that  his  '  sincere  and  only  wish  is  to  do  what  is 
agreeable  to  Lord  Chatham,  from  not  so  much  a  private 
regard  as  a  thorough  conviction  that  nothing  but  his 


1708]  LETTER  TO   LORD   CHATHAM.  171 

compass  and  extent  of  mind  can  save  this  country  from 
some  great  confusion.'  Lord  Bristol,  Lord  Carnden,  and 
the  Duke  of  Grafton  vied  with  each  other  in  equal  pro- 
fessions of  personal  and  party  attachment  to  their  nominal 
chief ;  but  the  Duke  of  Grafton  in  his  letters  showed  com- 
paratively more  independence  of  mind  and  self-respect. 
The  King  and  Chatham  on  their  parts  emulated  each 
other  in  epistolary  assurances,  interchanging  expressions 
of  devoted  attachment  and  affection. 

The  young  War  Office  clerk  was  clearly  cognizant  of 
all  these  double  dealings  and  party  intrigues,  and  saw  how 
entirely  the  national  interests  and  political  principle  were 
ignored.  If  he  was  not  infected  by  such  an  atmosphere, 
but  remained  altogether  unmindful  of  his  own  private 
interest,  he  would  have  been  an  angel,  not  a  man.  The 
knowledge,  however,  of  such  a  system  of  irresponsible 
government  and  of  the  vices  of  the  governing  class  clearly 
excited  his  contempt  and  scorn.  Certainly,  if  Francis  had 
held  high  office  he  might  have  rivalled  the  principal  actors 
in  these  party  dramas  ;  but  he  was  rather  a  bystander  with 
a  youthful  and  deep  interest  in  politics.  He  must  now  be 
introduced  as  the  writer  of  an  anonymous  letter  to  Lord 
Chatham  of  singular  and  questionable  contents,  and  the 
explanation  or  justification  of  which  may  occasion  much 
criticism  and  difference  of  opinion.  The  '  Chatham  Corre- 
spondence '  first  made  known  the  letter,  which  bore  no 
signature  or  initial.1 

The  sole  and  palpable  object  of  this  anonymous  com- 
munication, under  the  guise  of  respect  for  Lord  Chatham's 

1  It  isprinted  in  the  '  Chatham  Correspondence,'  vol.  iii.  p.  302,  as  '  Junius 
to  the  Earl  of  Chatham,'  Jan.  2,  1768.  It  professes  to  warn  his  lordship, 
with  singular  emphasis,  against  Lord  Northington,  Conway,  Lord  Hertford, 
and  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  ends :  '  My  lord,  the  man  who  presumes  to 
give  your  lordship  these  hints  admires  your  character  without  servility, 
and  is  convinced  that,  if  this  country  can  be  saved,  it  must  be  saved  by  Lord 
Chatham's  spirit,  by  Lord  Chatham's  abilities. 


172  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1708 

genius  and  attachment  to  his  person,  was  '  without  ser- 
vility' to  give  the  secluded  premier  notice  of  the  in- 
trigues and  negotiations  of  his  colleagues ;  the  contents 
being  specially  levelled  against  the  formation  of  any 
coalition  with  the  Bedford  party.  '  The  Bloomsbury 
House  Gang,'  so  called,  was  a  section  detested  by  Francis. 
The  peace  negotiated  by  his  grace  the  young  clerk  viewed 
as  an  unnecessary  surrender  of  national  conquests  ;  and 
he  believed  it  was  corruptly  negotiated.  Clearly,  the  in- 
consistency of  the  writer  was  not  in  his  object,  but  in  his 
terms  of  admiration  of  Lord  Chatham,  so  much  at  variance 
with  his  recent  public  attacks  upon  the  earl.  Even  if  there 
could  be  any  doubt  of  Francis's  authorship  of  the  before 
mentioned  letters  of  Poplicola,  Anti-Sejanus  Jun.,  and 
Downright,  there  were  other  newspaper  letters  of  Francis 
to  the  4  Public  Advertiser,'  immediately  preceding  those 
three,  of  almost  equal  venom  against  Chatham.  It  should, 
however,  be  considered  that  the  above  private  letter  was 
anonymous,  with  no  sinister  purpose,  and  it  could  have  had 
no  influence  with  the  minister  unless  respectfully  worded. 
As  such,  it  was  penned  in  terms  most  likely  to  impress 
Chatham,  and  to  effect  its  political  aim.  Viewed  in  the 
light  of  a  ruse,  the  inconsistency  of  the  writer  is  excus- 
able, or  at  least  may  be  thus  fairly  excused.  For  the  post- 
humous reputation  of  Francis,  however,  it  would  have 
been  well  that  he  had  never  written  it,  or  that  it  had  re- 
mained, as  he  designed  it  should,  secret  in  the  archives  of 
the  Pitt  family.  The  writer,  however,  really  placed  him- 
self in  no  false  position  to  Lord  Chatham  personally  or 
individually,  remaining  unknown  to  the  recipient  of  the 
letter ;  while  it  was  not  the  act  of  a  colleague  who 
intrigued  against  his  chief,  at  the  same  time  pretending 
devotion. 

An  examination  of  the  original  manuscript  leaves  no 


1768]  LETTER  TO  LORD  CHATHAM.  173 

doubt  of  this  letter  being  that  of  Francis  in  a  feigned 
hand,  but  more  fictitious  than  the  manuscript  of  the  1764 
Candor  letter  to  Woodfall.  The  Chatham  manuscript  is 
written  on  the  same  paper  as  that  used  in  the  War  Office. 
The  feigned  writing  was  doubtless  not  only  used  generally 
to  conceal  the  authorship,  but  because  Lord  Chatham 
would  probably  have  recollected  the  bold  and  character- 
istic natural  hand  of  his  former  assistant  amanuensis 
Francis.  But  as  the  letter  was  not  the  only  anonymous 
communication  addressed  by  Francis  to  the  earl,  and 
another  will  follow,  the  evidence  for  the  identity  of  the 
handwriting  is  reserved  for  a  future  chapter.1 

The  context  of  the  Chatham  letter  and  its  spirit  and 
phraseology  denote  its  origin ;  namely,  from  no  principal, 
but  as  that  of  an  inferior  man  in  office.  Its  supposed 
revelations  to  Chatham  are  hearsay  ;  the  letter  containing 
no  single  fact  from  primary  sources  of  information,  and 
the  writer  having  clearly  little  if  any  direct  personal  know- 
ledge of  the  arcana  of  the  pending  intrigues.  Further, 
Francis  was  ignorant  of  Lord  Chatham's  actual  designs  as 
to  the  premiership,  since  the  earl  himself  recommended 
the  Duke  of  Grafton  to  the  King  as  his  successor. 

Substantially  Francis  told  Lord  Chatham,  the  truth  and 
nothing  but  the  truth,  so  far  as  historical  and  biographical 
records  inform  us,  and  probably  nothing  which  the  earl 
was  not  well  aware  of;  and  with  respect  to  the  writer's 
compliment  to  Chatham,  in  the  assertion  that  the  country 
could  only  and  must  be  saved  by  the  spirit  and  abilities 
of  the  earl,  the  apparent  insincerity  is  not  so  clear  as 
imagined.  Francis  had  a  high  estimate  of  Lord  Chatham's 
genius  and  administrative  talents.  His  condemnation  of 

1  This  intended  future  chapter  Mr.  Parkes  did  not  complete.  But  the 
evidence  on  the  subject  (if  any  doubts  are  still  entertained)  is  really  to  be 
found  in  the  fac-similes  contained  in  the  printed  Chatham  Correspondence 
itself.— EDITOB. 


174  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1708 

the  '  Great  Commoner's '  later  ministry  and  inconsistent 
policy  was  sincere,  though  his  newspaper  writings  had 
too  vehemently  and  coarsejy  denounced  Chatham's  failings 
and  later  policy.  Francis  might  consistently  entertain 
hopes  of  the  recovery  of  the  minister's  health,  and  of  his 
lordship's  future  services  to  the  liberal  cause ;  as  in  truth 
happened  after  Chatham  was  in  opposition  ;  and,  more- 
over, Francis  had  the  lowest  estimate  of  the  abilities  and 
integrity  of  almost  all  the  other  public  men  of  the  day, 
excepting  only  George  Grenville.  Certain  it  is,  that  from 
the  end  of  1767  Francis  not  only  ceased  to  attack  Lord 
Chatham,  but  in  his  first  certain  newspaper  letter,  in  the 
month  of  February  following  it  will  be  seen  that  he  wrote 
respectfully  of  the  earl ;  nor  from  that  time  forward  did 
many  severe  reflections  on  his  lordship's  public  or  private 
character  or  conduct  escape  his  pen.  Indeed,  within 
two  years  Chatham  was  again  almost  his  '  idol.' 

We  now  come  to  the  series  of  letters  in  the  '  Public 
Advertiser'  during  the  next  twelve  months  of  the  year, 
which  unmistakeably  identify  the  old  correspondent  with 
the  War  Office,  and  exhibit  a  progressive  development 
of  matter,  style,  and  force.  Francis  states  in  another 
letter  to  Mackrabie,  dated  from  the  War  Office,  Jan.  9, 
that  he  had  been  nine  days  at  Bath  to  see  his  father. 
Accordingly,  no  letters  from  him  appear  in  the  'Public 
Advertiser  '  between  December  20, 1767,  and  January  5, 
1768. 

In  1853  the  publication  of  the  Grenville  papers  first 
made  known  the  following  anonymous  letter,  signed  C., 
preserved  in  the  family  papers  of  Stowe,  addressed  to  Mr. 
George  Grenville  :l- 

Sir, — The  observations  contained  in  the  enclosed  paper  are 
thrown  together  and  sent  to  you  upon  a  supposition  that  the  tax 

1  '  Grenville  Papers,'  vol.  iv.  p.  254. 


1768]  LETTER  TO  LORD  GRENVILLE.  175 

therein  referred  to  will  make  part  of  the  budget.  If  Lord  North 
should  have  fallen  upon  any  other  scheme  they  will  be  useless,  but  if 
the  case  happens,  and  they  shall  appear  to  have  any  weight,  the 
author  is  satisfied  that  no  man  in  this  country  can  make  so  able  a 
use  of  them  or  place  them  in  so  advantageous  a  light  as  Mr.  Grenville. 
It  is  not,  Sir,  either  necessary  or  proper  to  make  myself  known  to 
you  at  present ;  hereafter  I  may  perhaps  claim  that  honour.  In 
the  mean  time  be  assured  that  it  is  a  voluntary  disinterested 
attachment  to  your  person,  founded  on  an  esteem  for  your  spirit  and 
understanding,  which  has,  and  will  for  ever,  engage  me  in  your 
cause.  A  number  of  late  publications  (falsely  attributed  to  men  of 
far  greater  talent)  may  convince  you  of  my  zeal,  if  not  my  capacity 
to  serve  you.  The  only  condition  'which  I  presume  to  make  with 
you  is  that  you  will  not  only  not  show  these  papers  to  anybody,  but 
that  you  will  never  mention  your  having  received  them. 

c. 

The  original  of  this  letter  was  endorsed  by  Mr.  Gren- 
ville, '  Anonymous,  C.,  with  the  enclosed  paper.'  The 
enclosure  was  a  long  memorandum  of  objections  to 
an  auction  duty  tax,  which  the  writer  anticipated  Lord 
North  might  bring  forward  ;  but  which  was  not  pro- 
posed till  1777.  The  penmanship  of  the  letter  is  the 
usual  disguised  hand  of  Francis :  the  signature  initial 
C.  being  the  letter  of  the  alphabet  used  in  his  com- 
munications with  Woodfall.  In  this  letter  the  writer,  as 
has  been  seen,  asserted  that  he  had  no  personal  acquaint- 
ance with  the  ex-minister ;  which  was  a  fact,  as  Francis 
never  had  any  with  Grenville,  though  known  to  Lord 
Chatham.  This  letter  to  Mr.  Grenville  was  perfectly 
sincere,  as  Francis  invariably  entertained  for  that  states- 
man great  respect,  and  always  in  his  political  press 
articles  lauded  his  talents  and  his  policy  as  a  financier 
and  civil  administrator.  It  is  farther  remarkable  for  two 
statements,  that  the  writer  was  '  a  voluntarily  disinterested' 
advocate,  and  that  he  had  written  a  number  of  late  pub- 
lications falsely  attributed  to  others. 

There  next  followed  an  unusual  suspension  of  his  public 


176  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

letters  during  six  weeks,  when  he  resumed  his  pen,  ac- 
cording to  Woodfall's  acknowledgment  on  February  15 
that 4  an  old  friend  and  correspondent's  favour  came  too 
late  for  this  day's  paper.'1  But  next  day  it  appeared, 
occupying  a  column,  but  bearing  no  signature  or  initial. 
Its  substance  was  a  protest  against  the  Privy  Seal  being 
placed  in  commission  for  six  weeks,  and  an  attack  on  the 
commissioners  named,  as  men  of  inferior  rank,  two  of 
them  of '  Scotch  extraction,'  and  the  third  of  the  low  posi- 
tion of  recorder  of  St.  Albans.  He  described  the  clerical 
work  of  affixing  the  Privy  Seal  as  too  dirty  a  job  even  to 
have  been  imposed  on  '  clerks  in  office.'  The  commission 
was  denounced  as  unconstitutional,  and  as  insulting  to 
Lord  Chatham.  The  earl  is  now  comparatively  respectfully 
treated,  although  his  retention  of  the  Privy  Seal  is  still 
consistently  condemned.  The  writer  expresses  his  disbelief 
that  his  lordship,  '  whatever  his  faults,'  approved  the  no- 
mination of  the  particular  commissioners  appointed  by  the 
crown  to  discharge  pro  tern,  the  duties  of  so  responsible  an 
office.  Francis's  authorship  of  this  attack  on  the  ministry 
cannot  be  doubted  :  his  redundant  use  of  the  preposition  to 
throughout  is  more  careless  than  in  any  previous  letter. 
The  subdued  and  qualified  comments  on  Lord  Chatham 
personally  are  also  consistent  witli  the  kindly  tone  of  the 
anonymous  private  one  to  the  earl.  It  will  be  further 
hereafter  shown  that  this  last  letter  contains  the  substance 
of  passages  used  by  Francis  four  years  afterwards.  The 
letter  also  was  clearly  intended  to  foreshadow  succeeding 
communications  to  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  on  the  improper 
use  of  the  Privy  Seal  in  the  illegal  crown  grant  of  property 

1  'Public  Advertiser,'  February  6,  1768. — 'Several  gentlemen  who  are 
pleased  to  honour  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  with  their  correspondence,  but 
•who  do  not  chuse  to  send  their  favours  by  the  penny  post,  have  intimated 
to  the  printer  that  a  box  for  the  reception  of  letters  would  be  agreeable, 
there  is  one  for  that  purpose  accordingly  fixed  in  the  window.' 


1768]  MEMNON.  177 

held  by  rightful  owners  to  others  ;  aggravated  also  by  its 
real  object  being  for  election  gains  to  the  ministry.  Just 
at  this  time  the  gross  injustice  of  the  well-known  transfer 
by  Treasury  warrant  of  a  crown  estate  of  the  Duke  of 
Portland  to  Sir  James  Lowther,  to  influence  Cumberland 
and  Carlisle  election  contests,  had  occurred.  This  was  a 
capital  anti-ministerial  text  for  Francis,  and  he  availed 
himself  of  it  most  copiously  and  fiercely.  It  was  the 
opposition  platform  of  the  day. 

His  first  letter  on  this  scandalous  '  job  '  was  under  the 
signature  of  Memnon,  published  in  the '  Public  Advertiser ' 
of  the  24th  of  the  same  month.  The  receipt  was  simply 
acknowledged  on  the  previous  day.  As  usual,  it  was 
therefore  immediately  inserted  first  in  the  day's  correspon- 
dence. The  letter  opened  with  a  fine  discrimination  of 
the  qualities  of  the  different  races  of  our  islands,  describing 
the  phlegmatic  persistent  nature  of  the  English  ;  '  the  heat 
of  the  Welch,  the  impetuosity  of  the  Irish,  the  acrimony 
of  the  Scotch,  and  the  headlong  violence  of  the  Creolians— 
national  characteristics  very  different  from  that  of  the 
native  genuine  English.'  These  national  portraits,  with  a 
more  minute  sketch  of  the  English,  are  admirably  drawn. 
Scraps  of  similar  diagnosis  of  our  national  minds  and 
temperament  had  appeared  in  his  former  letters,  but  in 
no  other  picture  had  he  so  happily  shown  his  knowledge 
of  the  world  and  human  nature.  The  first  Earl  of 
Lonsdale,  in  favour  of  whom  the  grant  was  made,  having 
married  a  daughter  of  Lord  Bute,  furnished  Memnon  with 
one  of  his  favourite  topics  of  abuse.  The  '  Favourite  '  did 
it  all.  The  letter  throughout  has  the  usual  contexture  of 
sentences  in  the  abuse  of  the  preposition  to.  All  the 
articles  of  Francis  had  been  hitherto  remarkable  for 
their  sparse  praise  of  living  public  men,  Mr.  G.  Grenville 
excepted,  and  it  is  therefore  noticeable  that  Memnon  in  his 

VOL.  I.  N 


178  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

mention  of  the '  Quieting  Bill,'  then  unsuccessfully  proposed 
by  Sir  George  Saville,  describes  Suville  as  one  of  the  ablest, 
most  virtuous,  and  most  temperate  men  in  the  kingdom.1 
The  second  Memnon  letter  appeared  in  the  'Public  Adver- 
tiser '  of  March  4,  still  more  bitter  in  its  comments  on  the 
conduct  of  the  Treasury  to  the  Duke  of  Portland,  and 
denouncing  the  application  in  his  case  of  an  obsolete  pre- 
rogative of  the  Crown.  He  declares  that  the  existence  of 
such  Crown  power  is  principally  owing  to  its  disuse  ;  and 
he  aptly  likens  it  to  '  an  old  piece  of  cannon  I  have  heard 
of  somewhere,  of  an  enormous  size,  which  stood  upon  a 
ruinous  bastion,  and  which  was  seldom  or  never  fired  for 
fear  of  bringing  down  the  fortification  for  whose  defence  it 
was  intended.'  This  letter  showed  an  intimate  acquaintance 
with  all  the  forms  of  the  Treasury  and  public  offices.  It 
also  repeats  the  writer's  accustomed  warning  against 
illegal  precedents  ;  that  if  permitted  with  impunity,  they 
will  be  repeated.  '  Suppress  them  under  the  shape  of 
general  warrants  or  seizure  of  papers,  they  will  start 
up  in  the  form  of  dispensing  powers,  forfeitures  of 
charters,  violations  of  public  faith,  establishments  of 
private  monopolies,  and  raising  up  antiquated  titles  for 
the  Crown.'  By  Woodfall's  notice  to  correspondents  on 
that  day,  it  would  appear  that  the  editor  had  erased 
the  latter  part  of  Memnon's  letter  as  painfully  severe  on 
one  minister  whom  the  editor  believed  '  knew  nothing  of 
the  matter.'  With  great  deference  Woodfall  expressed 
the  hope  that  Memnon  would  excuse  the  suppression. 
Memnon  forcibly  argued  that  if  the  property  of  the  Duke 
of  Portland  could  be  thus  wrested  from  his  grace,  '  an 
office  of  inquisition  is  established  in  the  true  inquisitorial 

1  The  bill  for  limiting  the  claims  of  the  Crown  on  landed  estate,  after- 
wards enacted  in  Stat.  9  George  III.  ch.  16.  The  terseness  of  this  just 
character  of  Saville  by  Francis  is  in  curious  contrast  with  the  elaborate  though 
eloquent  one  by  Burke  in  his  Bristol  Address. 


1768]  'NULLUM  TEMPUS'  DOCTRINE.  179 

spirit,  and  with  genuine  inquisitorial  powers,  over  all  the 
landed  power  in  England.'  He  promised  a  resumption  of 
the  subject  in  his  next  paper. 

In  the  meanwhile,  true  to  his  habit,  and  in  reply  to 
some  intervening  defences  of  the  Lowther  side  the  question, 
he  palpably  continued  to  maintain  his  argument  under 
other  signatures. 

On  March  10  a  letter,  under  the  new  signature  of 
The  Downright  Englishman,  continues  the  attack  ;  almost 
certainly  the  metamorphosis  of  Memnon.  It  traced  the 
origin  of  the  prerogative,  demonstrating  the  inapplica- 
bility of  the  Nullum  Tempus  doctrine  to  modern  cases ; 
insinuating  that  the  Seals  of  the  Exchequer  were  then  in  the 
unscrupulous  hands  of  a  minister  who,  like  the  young  man 
with  Cyrus,  had  two  consciences, '  one  private  and  one  minis- 
terial, neither  of  which  singly  bound  him  to  anything.' 

An  opponent  in  the  next  day's  'Public  Advertiser,'  under 
the  signature  of  Anti-Van  Teague,  took  up  the  glove  in 
defence  of  the  Treasury  ;  contending  that  the  courts  of  law 
were  open  to  determine  a  legal  question  not  properly  the 
subject  of  newspaper  discussion.  This  letter  replied  to 
the  Downright  Englishman  as  Memnon  under  a  different 
name.  On  the  Friday  se'nnight  doubtless  Memnon,  under 
his  third  signature  of  Anti-Stuart,  answered  his  antagonist. 
It  was  a  vehement  attack  on  the  Duke  of  Grafton  who,  as 
the  real  head  of  the  ministry,  was  represented  as  the 
minister  responsible  for  the  abuse  of  the  prerogative ;  Anti- 
Stuart,  ringing  a  change  on  the  Cyrus  simile,  likened 
Lord  North  '  to  the  great  demigods  of  antiquity,  who  had 
also  two  characters.'  The  new  name  Anti-Stuart  was  of 
course  a  counter  signature  to  Anti-  Van  Teague,  and  as 
that  name  further  conveyed  the  convenient  impression 
that  Lord  Bute  was  also  the  mainspring  of  the  Grafton 
ministry. 

x  2 


180  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

During  March  and  April  the  general  election  had  mono- 
polised in  addresses  and  advertisements  the  columns  of  the 
1  Public  Advertiser,'  its  space  not  then  being  equal  to  one 
third  that  of  our  daily  penny  papers  of  the  present  day. 
There  was  little  room  for  the  political  gladiators,  and 
Woodfall  begged  their  indulgence  till  the  new  parliament 
was  chosen.  The  contested  county  polls  at  that  period  lasted 
fourteen  days,  and  the  Borough  eight  polls  days.  Woodfall 
had  little  room, .and  was  compelled  to  (.lisoblige  his  corre- 
spondents. There  can  be  no  mistake  as  to  the  identity  of 
the  individual  addressed  by  the  editor  of  the  'Public  Adver- 
tised of  April  4  in  the  following  notice  to  a  correspondent : 

The  printer  hopes  the  readiness  with  which  he  has  endea- 
voured to  oblige,  and  the  attention  he  has  ever  paid  to,  an  old 
Friend  and  Correspondent,  will  convince  him  that  nothing  prevented 
the  immediate  compliance  with  his  request  but  the  paper  being  pre- 
engaged  by  an  absolute  promise,  the  punctual  observance  of  which 
he  presumes  to  think  will  not  lessen  him  in  his  correspondent's 
opinion. 

The  contest  for  Middlesex  ending  in  the  triumph  of 
Wilkes,  the  consequent  breaches  of  the  peace  in  the  metro- 
polis, with  the  party  articles,  the  election  addresses  and 
proceedings,  had  choked  the  columns  of  Woodfall's  journal. 
But  he  made  room  for  Francis  ;  and  who,  especially  under 
his  oldest  signature  of  C.,  could  not  be  refused  insertion. 

O  7 

On  the-  day  following  the  above  notice,  a  letter  of  a 
column's  length,  with  the  old  initial,  found  a  place  in  the 
4  Public  Advertiser.'  The  all-exciting  subject  of  Wilkes's 
reappearance  on  the  public  stage  was  the  text.  Francis 
temporarily  exchanged  it  for  that  of  Nullum  Tempux. 
Wilkes's  return  to  England  and  his  popular  elevation  to  a 
seat  in  the  House  of  Commons  were  skilfully  used  by  C. 
as  fresh  causes  of  ministerial  attack.  He  condemned 
the  government  for  permitting  an  outlaw  to  return  with 


1768]  GENERAL  ELECTION.  181 

\ 

impunity  ;  and  he  ascribed  to  their  unpopularity  Wilkes's 
success  in  the  metropolitan  county,  and  further  gave 
ministers  the  credit  of  the  riots  in  London  and  West- 
minster. The  letter  was,  however,  a  strong  protest 
against  mob  law,  and  a  lamentation  that  the  cause  of 
liberty  should  be  coupled  with  a  public  man  of  so  dis- 
reputable a  private  character  as  the  new  member  for 
Middlesex.  At  this  period,  Francis,  notwithstanding  his 
able  pamphlets  against  the  doctrine  of  general  warrants 
and  seizures  of  papers,  really  considered  Wilkes  as  a  mis- 
chievous demagogue  without  any  political  principle,  and 
as  therefore  a  discredit  and  damage  of  the  popular  party. 
When  Wilkes  was  afterwards  unconstitutionally  deprived 
of  his  seat  in  parliament,  and  persecuted  by  men  in  office, 
formerly  the  demagogue's  personal  and  political  friends 
— and  when  Wilkes  proclaimed  the  necessity  for  an 
amended  representative  system — then  Francis,  as  it  will 
be  seen,  took  his  part,  and  materially  upheld  him  by  his 
pen.  Such  changes  of  action  in  a  public  writer  are  the 
results  of  altered  circumstances,  and  are  proofs  of  sound 
principle,  not  of  inconsistency. 

Another  letter  in  the  same  number  of  the  ' Public  Ad- 
vertiser,' signed  Q.  in  the  Corner,  folio  wing  that  of  C.,  is  a  sort 
of  postscript  stamped  by  the  same  recurrence  and  allitera- 
tion of  the  abused  preposition.  The  two  letters,  both  unac- 
knowledged by  Woodfall,  being  inserted  next  day,  were 
probably  enclosed  in  the  same  cover,  and  on  the  previous 
evening.  It  is  not  likely,  had  both  not  been  of  a  common 
parentage,  that  Woodfall,  overcrowded,  would  have  inserted 
the  second  inferior  article  on  the  same  subject. 

In  the '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  April  7  (acknowledged  the 
day  before),  and  inserted  first,  is  another  letter  almost  cer- 
tainly, from  its  internal  evidence,  and  its  changed  Eoman 
signature  to  Quintus  Curtius,  by  the  same  writer.  It  com- 


182  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1708 

menced  by  stating  that  he  had  '  read  the  case  of  the  Duke 
of  Portland,  published  by  Almon,'1  and  that  if  the  facts  stated 
in  it  were  true,  the  grant  was  the  most  flagrant  ministerial 
act  ever  perpetrated  by  the  most  profligate  government. 
That  Francis  had  read  this  case  is  certain,  because  in  the 
sixteenth  volume  of  his  bound  tracts  of  pamphlets  of  this 
year  (and  his  collection  was  not  uniformly  bound,  but 
apparently  periodically  preserved  in  varying  bindings), 
there  is  a  copy  of  Almon's  publication  of  it ;  and  on  one 
page  there  is  a  blot  of  ink  as  though  read  with  pen  in 
hand.     It  is  also  a  copy  of  the  first  edition,  the  case 
appearing  in  ten  editions  in  the  course  of  that  year.     In 
other   pamphlets,  also   bound  up  in  the  same  volume, 
Francis  had  filled  in  the  asterisks  by  full  names,  and  also 
made  manuscript  memoranda   in   his   own   hand.     The 
article  is  not  that  of  a  professional  legal  advocate  of  the 
Duke  of  Portland,  nor  of  an  ordinary  political  writer. 
It  betrays  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  clerical  depart- 
ment of  the  Treasury  ;  citing  former  precedents,  in  which 
such  grants  as  that  to  Sir.  J.  Lowther  had  never  been 
granted   without   hearings    on   the    merits    before    the 
Keeper  of  the  Privy  Seal  in  person  ;  it  states  that  in  the 
Lowther  case  the  Seal  was  not  sanctioned  by  Lord  Chat- 
ham personally,  because  that  minister  never  would  have 
authorised  it  without  pre-enquiring  into  the  merits  with 
time  for  caveat ;   that  probably  it  was   hoped   that   in 
three  or  four  weeks  the  earl  would  have  been  ousted  from 
office ;  and  that  the  commissioners  were  '  three  commis  of 
office,'  whose  use  of  the  Seal  was  readily  obtained.     He 
then  denounces  the  grant  as  a  '  Star  Chamber  proceeding,' 
as  the  act  of  '  wicked  ministers,  who  during  their  whole 

1  By  Almon's  monthly  list  of  his  new  publications,  and  by  the  newspaper 
advertisements,  this  pamphlet  must  have  been  published  the  end  of  March 
or  in  the  first  week  of  April. 


1768]  'NULLUM  TEMPUS '  DOCTRINE.  183 

administration' have  rendered  the  tenure  of  commercial 
and  landed  property '  uncertain  and  insecure.  The 
vehemence  and  exaggeration  of  the  language  further 
marks  the  writer. 

The 'Public  Advertiser'  of  the  llth  acknowledges  another 
letter  from  C.  to  be  published  the  following  day;  on  which 
it  duly  appeared.  The  subject  matter  kept  the  unpopular 
and  indefensible  Lowther  grant  again  before  the  public ; 
it  was  too  destructive  a  weapon  to  be  laid  aside  till  rusty. 
In  conclusion  of  repeatedly  varied  arguments,  the  writer 
says  :  '  A  minister  capable  of  recommending  such  measures 
to  the  Crown  calls  to  my  mind  the  idea  which  our  ancestors 
had  of  some  black  magician  conjuring  up  infernal  spirits 
from  the  depths  of  the  earth  and  of  the  sea,  and  letting 
them  loose  to  the  destruction  of  mankind.'  Of  the  pater- 
nity of  this  letter  there  can  be  no  doubt,  as  Woodfall 
would  never  allow  any  other  individual  to  personate  C. 

The  two  next  letters  in  the '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  April 
23,  both  of  them  unacknowledged  previously  by  Woodfall, 
have  been  the  subject,  as  to  the  identity  of  authorship,  of 
much  controversy.  Any  doubt  could  only  have  existed 
from  disputants  having  had  insufficient  means  of  deter- 
mining their  genuineness.  Both  letters  were  continuous 
articles  on  the  same  subject,  like  the  preceding  articles  of 
Memnon,  C.,  &c.  The  first  of  the  two  bore  no  signa- 
ture or  initial,  the  occasional  practice  of  Francis.  It  was 
addressed  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  personally,  doubtless  to 
place  his  grace's  private  character  on  a  par  with  that  of 
Wilkes ;  and  at  this  time  there  was  little  difference 
between  the  dissipated  conduct  of  the  peer  and  the  com- 
moner. The  ministerial  press  aided  the  ministry  in  their 
scurrilous  abuse  of  Wilkes's  private  life,  which  was  cer- 
tainly no  better  than  that  of  his  neighbours.  Francis  con- 
tended for  the  truth  of  the  true  though  vulgar  old  English 


184  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

proverb,  that  what  was  sauce  for  the  goose  was  sauce  for 
the  gander.   A  boy-premier,  such  as  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
who,  though   married,  appeared  in  public,  and  in  the 
presence  of  his  sovereign,  in  the  company  of  his  mistress, 
and  that  mistress  formerly  a  prostitute  on  the  town  of 
London,  could  not  escape  comparison  with  Wilkes.     The 
Duke's  appearance  with  Ann  Bellamy  at  Newmarket  and 
the  opera  house  was  the  notorious  scandal  of  the  higher 
circles  of  society,  and  had  been  repeatedly  the  subject 
of  public  mention  by  the  press.     This  liaison  was  the 
subject  of  the  first  of  the  two  letters.     As  neither  were 
editorially   acknowledged,   by   usual   signs,   as   received 
prior  to  publication,  their  internal  evidence  must  be  the 
exclusive  means   of  identifying   their   authorship.     The 
first,  a  brief  unsigned  letter,  addressed  to  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  examined  singly,  might  be  doubtfully  assigned  to 
Francis ;  but  examined  in  connection  with  the  second 
letter,  signed  Bifruns,  and  viewed  in  relation  to  the  pre- 
ceding articles,  must  be  an  arrow  out  of  the  same  quiver. 
The  plan  of  the  writer  palpably  was  to  review  the  new 
head  of  the  ministry  in  the  two  distinct  characters  of  a 
private   and   public   man.      For   this   purpose   the   two 
articles  were  evidently  severed,  so  that  the  levity  of  the 
first  should  not  lower  the  serious  tone  of  the  second. 
The   first   letter    ironically   congratulates   the   Duke   of 
Grafton  as  a  perfect  character,  and  as  a  man  *  through- 
out public  and  private  life  '  ever  consistent  with  himself. 
Still  he  says,  that '  the  most  superior  persons  have  usually 
some  defect,  some  weaknesses  in  their  characters  which 
diminish  the  lustre  of  their  brighter  qualifications  :  that 
4  Tiberius  had  his  forms,'  and  that '  Charteris  now  and 
then   deviated    into    honesty.'     Again    alluding   to   the 
Lowther  grant,  he  tells  his  grace, 4  whether  the  property 
of  the  subject,  or  the  general  rights  of  the  nation  were  to 


1768]   ATTACKS  ON  THE  DUKE  OF  GRAFTON.    BIFRONS.    185 

be  invaded ;  or  whether  you  were  tired  of  one  lady,  and 
chose  another  for  the  honourable  companion  of  your 
pleasures ;  whether  it  was  a  horse  race  or  a  hazard  table  ; 
a  noble  disregard  of  forms  seemed  to  operate  through  all 
your  conduct.'  But  he  admits  that  the  prime  minister 
had  exceeded  his  highest  expectations. 

I  did  not  think  you  capable  of  exhibiting  the  lovely  Thai's  at  the 
opera  house,  of  sitting  a  whole  night  by  her  side,  of  calling  for  her 
carriage  yourself,  and  of  leading  her  to  it  through  a  crowd  of  the 
first  men  and  women  in  this  kingdom.  .  .  .  Obtain  a  divorce, 
marry  the  lady,  and  Bradshaw  will  be  civil  enough  to  give  her  away, 
with  an  honest,  artless  smile  of  approbation. 

Bradshaw  had  been  formerly  a  clerk  in  the  War  Office, 
and  his  fawning  character,  and  unworthy  rise  above  his 
fellow-clerks,  were  particularly  disliked  by  Francis  ;  and 
Bradshaw  continued  to  be  the  subject  of  frequent  after 
political  attacks.  This  letter  was  the  prelude  to  the 
second.  Bifrons,  the  title  of  the  second  letter,  was  the 
surname  of  Janus,  because  represented  by  the  Eomans 
with  two  faces,  as  acquainted  with  the  past  and  the 
future.  The  great  majority  of  the  illustrations  and  mot- 
toes of  Francis  were  Latin.  Bifrons  characterised  the 
Grafton  ministry  as  distinguished  for  the  '  single  virtue  ' 
of  duplicity.  He  satirised  it  as  so  composed  that  '  every 
member  of  the  body  acts  in  two  distinct  capacities,  and, 
Janus-like,  bears  two  faces  and  two  tongues,  either  of 
which  may  give  the  lie  to  the  other  without  violent 
danger  to  his  own  reputation.'  He  then  briefly  instances 
cases  of  double-dealing  of  most  of  the  members,  but  again 
bringing  forward  the  Duke  of  Grafton  as  the  principal 
offender  before  the  law  of  public  opinion.  Bifrons  then 
quotes  a  reply  to  the  case  of  the  Duke  of  Portland 
'  recently  published  (as  'tis  said)  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Treasury.'  This  latter  counter  case  had  admitted  that  the 


186  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

Duke  of  Grafton  had  'inadvertently'  given  the  Duke  of 
Portland  a  promise  that  the  grant  in  question  should  not 
be  issued  without  a  previous  investigation  of  the  Duke 
of  Portland's  title,  but  that  since  the  minister  '  was  the 
King's  servant,  and  had  no  title  to  the  making  this 
promise,  he  perceived  he  was  not  in  honour  bound  to 
adhere  to  it.'  This  unfortunate  admission  was  commented 
upon  by  Bifrons  in  the  well-known  passage  respecting 
the  *  writers  of  casuistry '  whose  works  were  burnt  at 
Paris.  (Woodfall's  '  Junius,'  vol.  iii.  p.  46.) 
The  Bifrons  letter  then  ends  as  follows  :l  — 

I  proposed  to  have  made  this  a  complete  panegyric  on  the  Duke 
of  Grafton  ;  but  I  find  it  extremely  difficult  to  draw  one  character 
of  a  man  that  acts  in  two.  If,  however,  my  poor  attempt  towards  it 
should  find  favour  in  his  sight,  I  hope  he  will  on  a  future  occasion 
afford  me  the  means  of  distinguishing  between  his  two  characters, 
as  Moliere's  Sosia  does  between  the  two  amphitrions,  '  c'est  1'am- 
phitrion  chez  qui  Ton  dine.' 

Singular  evidence  brings  this  Bifrons  letter  home  to 
Francis.  In  one  volume  of  his  collection  of  pamphlets, 
bound  next  to  a  copy  of  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case, 
there  is  a  copy  also  of  \hefirst  edition  of  the  Lowther  case 
in  reply  to  it ;  which  latter  was  published  the  third  week 
in  April.2  Moliere  also  was  one  of  Francis's  most  favourite 
French  writers,  and  he  had  the  Paris  1718  edition  of 
the  (Euvres.3 

1  See  on  this  subject  the  separate  note  at  the  end  this  chapter. 

*  '  A  reply  to  a  pamphlet  entitled  "  The  Case  of  the  Duke  of  Portland, 
respecting  two  leases  granted  by  the  Lords  of  the  Treasury  to  Sir  James 
Lowther,  Bart.  London.  Printed  for  G.  Kearsley  and  F.  Newberry,  1708.' 
8vo.  pp.  44. — A  second  answer  to  the  Portland  case  was  privately  printed, 
bearing  no  printer's  or  publisher's  name ;  chiefly  a  legal  argument  vindicating 
the  grant.  Of  the  latter  answer  Francis  had  no  copy,  and  there  is  no  allu- 
sion to  it  in  his  'Public  Advertiser'  letters.  Being  unpublished,  he  probably 
could  not  procure,  and  may  not  have  known  it,  or  it  would  have  come  under 
the  lash  of  his  pen. 

3  Francis's  Library  Catalogue,  No.  471. 


1768]  'NULLUM  TEMPUS'  DOCTRINE.  187 

On  May  6,  a  short  letter  appeared'  under  the  old  signa- 
ture of  C.,  condemning  the  ministry  for  the  Gazette  notice 
of  a  commission  to  open  the  new  Parliament  on  the 
10th.  The  King  '  in  perfect  health  '  not  being  allowed 
to  open  it  in  person  was  debited  against  the  ministers,  his 
Majesty's  safety  among  his  people  being  in  peril  througli 
their  mean  policy  and  exaltation  of  Wilkes. 
•  In  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  the  10th,  a  laboured  and 
elaborate  letter  from  a  correspondent,  signing  himself  A.  B., 
appeared  in  reply  to  the  attacks  on  the  grant  to  Sir  James 
Lowther ;  clearly  the  article  of  a  legal  adviser.  It  was  most 
improbable  Francis  would  permit  this  article  to  remain  un- 
answered. Accordingly  a  letter  of  the  same  day's  date,  but 
published  on  the  12th.  was  inserted  in  the  'Public  Adver- 
tiser '  under  the  signature  of  Valerius,  doubtless  from  the 
studio  of  Francis.  The  member  of  the  eminent  Eoman 
family  whose  name  is  thus  affixed,  was  probably  Valerius 
Publius,  because  suYn&medPoplicola.  Few  political  writers 
of  the  period  were  such  good  Latinists  as  to  have  selected 
this  signature ;  and  none  so  likely  as  the  Poplicola  of  the 
same  journal  of  April  28,  1767.  The  particular  change 
of  name  therefore  not  only  in  this  instance  detects  the 
writer,  but  the  contents  of  the  letter  and  its  style  mark 
the  '  old  correspondent.'  Its  argument  was  logical  and 
terse,  and  it  is  the  most  superior  of  his  contributions  on 
the  subject  of  the  grant.  The  text  is  the  case  of  the  Duke 
of  Portland,  and  the  writer  again  reminds  his  readers  that 
Sir  James  Lowther  was  the  son-in-law  of  Lord  Bute. 
Though  the  legal  points  are  clearly  not  worded  by  a 
lawyer,  it  demonstrates  Francis's  knowledge  of  constitu- 
tional law. 

In  the  second  sentence  of  only  ten  lines,  to  is  used  seven 
times ;  in  a  letter  of  only  a  column  and  a  quarter  the 
preposition,  in  gross  numbers,  forty-eight  times. 


188  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

It  is  remarkable  that  in  such  a  mass  of  political  and 
anti-ministerial  public  articles  from  the  same  pen,  attack- 
ing almost  every  man  in  high  office  of  four  successive  ad- 
ministrations between  1763  and  1768,  the  name  of  Lord 
Barrington,  Secretary  of  War,  should  never  have  been 
ever  mentioned  or  his  important  department  criticised. 
Lord  Barrington  was,  par  excellence,  perhaps  the  most 
venerable  of  the  4  Kings  friends ' .  as  he  had  held  office 
under  almost  all  parties.  That  this  particular  nobleman 
should  have  been  thus  exempted,  unless  for  some  special 
reason,  was  the  more  noticeable  because  this  noble  vis- 
count was  not  personally  popular  with  his  colleagues  or 
with  the  subordinates  of  his  department.  The  private 
correspondence  of  Francis,  D'Oyly,  and  some  of  the  under 
clerks  of  the  War  Office,  show  that  Lord  Barrington's 
manner  to  those  under  him  was  cold  if  not  distant. 
Although  placing  the  greatest  trust  in  his  two  upper 
officers,  D'Oyly  and  Francis,  and  although  the  latter  pre- 
pared on  verbal  or  brief  written  instructions  almost  all 
important  official  documents  for  signature,  Lord  Barring- 
ton's  occasional  private  notes  to  them  were  few  and  cold  ; 
and  they  estimated  his  hospitality  as  below  zero.  He 
was,  however,  respected,  and  indulgent  in  allowing  his 
clerks  occasional  vacations. 

Lord  Barrington's  maniere  was  one  of  hauteur.  Had 
he  possessed  more  urbanity  and  a  heartier  estimate  of  the 
services  of  clever  men  of  long  service  in  his  department, 
lie  would  have  escaped  many  severe  criticisms  on  his  ad- 
ministration of  the  War  Office.  His  exemption  from 
those  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  was  doubtless  owing  to 
the  reluctance  of  Francis  to  comment  on  the  transactions 
of  his  own  office,  with  perhaps  some  fear  lest  his  pen 
might  be  discovered  by  the  viscount.  Public  occurrences, 
however,  at  last  soon  left  Francis  no  alternative  but  to  ter- 


1768]  LORD  BARRINGTOX.  189 

minate  his  exception,  and  Lord  Barrington  henceforward 
came  in  for  a  full  share  of  commentary  at  the  hands  of  his 
first  clerk. 

The  receipt  of  next  letter  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser ' 
traceable  to  Francis,  on  May  19,  under  the  signature  Fiat 
Justitia,  was  not  previously  acknowledged  under  that  signa- 
ture. The  journal,  by  the  editor's  notices  and  claims  on  the 
indulgence  of  his  correspondents,  had  been  particularly 
overloaded ;  but  on  the  18th  the  following  notice  would 
appear  to  refer  to  the  letter  of  Fiat  Justitia :  '  We  are 
sorry  not  to  have  it  in  our  power  to  oblige  a  frequent 
correspondent  so  soon  as  we  could  wish  ;  the  earliest  atten- 
tion possible  will  ever  be  paid  to  his  favours.'1  It  has 
been  obvious  that,  besides  the  constant  changes  of  signa- 
ture, the  editor,  by  way  of  precaution,  variously  repeated 
his  forms  of  acknowledgment  of  the  manuscripts ;  other- 
wise, of  course,  one  form  of  recognition  would  have  de- 
stroyed the  illusion  of  the  communications  being  those  of 
several  distinct  correspondents. 

The  subject  of  'Fiat  Justitia'  was  a  severe  censure  of  the 
Secretary  at  War's  (Lord  Barrington's)  official  letter  con- 
veying the  King's  approval  of  the  conduct  of  the  troops  in 
suppressing  the  riots  in  St.  George's  Fields,  on  the  occasion 
of  Wilkes's  expected  liberation  from  the  King's  Bench 
prison  on  May  10,  and  its  unconstitutional  promise  of 
protection  when  some  of  the  soldiers  were  in  custody  of 
the  civil  power  on  charge  of  murder.  Nearly  a  score 
of  the  crowd  assembled  before  the  prison  had  been  killed 
or  wounded  by  the  unnecessary  discharge  of  musketry. 
One  young  man.  by  name  Allen,  who  was  not  amongst  the 
mob,  was  killed,  and  some  females  had  been  severely 
wounded.  This  unfortunate  collision  between  the  military 
and  the  people,  as  in  all  such  instances,  raised  the  fiercest 

1  The  italics  are  "Woodfall's. 


190  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

feelings  of  popular  indignation.  The  letter  of  Lord  Bar- 
rington  had  not  generally  been  made  public  at  this  time 
beyond  the  circle  of  the  troops  employed.  It  had  been  ad- 
dressed in  the  previous  week  to  the  commanding  officer  of 
the  three  regiments  of  Foot  Guards  who  had  been  engaged 
in  this  unpleasant  duty.  Certainly  a  more  inconsiderate 
and  unconstitutional  letter  never  emanated  from  the  pen  of 
a  minister,  nor  one  more  ill  composed.  It  was  said  to  be 
written  at  the  personal  desire  of  the  King  ;  and  as  there 
is  no  draft  of  it  in  the  War  Office  in  the  handwriting  of 
Francis  (who  almost  invariably  drafted  the  office  letters 
and  endorsed  the  drafts),  the  document  was  probably 
the  joint  production  of  Lord  Barrington  and  the  King — 
the  letter  stating  that  it  was  his  Majesty's  express  direction 
that  his  '  approbation  '  of  the  conduct  of  the  officers  and 
the  men  should  be  communicated  to  them  by  the  field 
officer  in  command.  Fiat  Justitia  palpably  by  his  com- 
ments must  have  seen  a  copy  of  the  letter.  Indeed  it  is 
in  the  extant  letter  book  of  the  War  Office,  and  apparently 
indexed  by  the  hand  of  Francis.  The  first  two  sentences 
of  the  newspaper  letter  of  Fiat  Justitia  indicate  its  origin. 
The  passages  are  marked  in  italics.  '  An  officer  of  the 
Guards,  on  whose  veracity  I  can  rely,  has  informed  me 
that  the  Secretary  at  War  has  thought  proper  to  write  a 
letter  of  thanks  to  the  commanding  officer  of  the  troops 
lately  employed  in  St.  George's  Fields.  The  substance  of 
it,  as  well  as  I  can  remember,  is  rather  of  an  extraordinary 
nature,  and  I  think  deserves  the  attention  and  considera- 
tion of  the  public.'  He  then  particularises  the  '  substance ' 
in  details  only  one  who  had  read  the  official  letter 
could  have  told.  The  gist  of  the  attack  is  the  obvious 
scandal  of  the  Father  of  a  People  being  made  to  express 
his  royal  thanks  to  the  military  for  their  conduct  on  so 
unhappy  an  occasion  as  the  slaughter  of  his  subjects ;  and 


1768]  LORD  BARRINGTON.  191 

pending  a  judicial  enquiry  into  the  loss  of  life,  Fiat  Jus- 
titia  sensibly  remarked  that  if  any  letter  had  been  neces- 
sary the  King's  name  should  not  have  been  compromised. 
'  The  Secretary  at  War  would  have  done  better  in  con- 
fining his  letter  to  the  expression  of  his  own  sentiments  : 
what  he  has  said  for  himself,  if  I  am  rightly  informed, 
will  require  more  wit  than  he  possesses  to  defend.'  This 
letter,  regarded  as  Francis's  own  opinion,  was  creditable 
to  him  ;  but  the  excitement  of  his  feelings  did  not  justify 
it  from  the  pen  of  a  clerk  in  the  War  Office.  The  apology 
for  him  is,  that  it  was  from  a  public  writer  who  had 
been  long  independently  discussing  public  questions,  and 
that  the  official  letter  itself  was  almost  contemporaneously 
made  public  in  the  newspapers.  Certainly  there  never 
was  a  ministerial  act,  sanctioned  also  by  the  Crown,  more 
reprehensible  or  mischievous  than  Lord  Barrington's 
letter. 


192  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1763 


[At  this  point  Mr.  Parkes's  incomplete  manuscript  ter- 
minates ;  and  I  have  not  been  able,  in  my  researches 
among  his  papers,  to  discover  any  continuation. 

I  add  the  following  separate  memorandum  by  Mr. 
Parkes  on  the  subject  of  the  burning  of  the  Jesuit  books : 
which  properly  finds  its  place  here.] 

No  single  letter  of  those  styled  '  miscellaneous '  ascribed 
to  Junius  has  so  much  puzzled  and  perplexed  his  com- 
mentators as  that  under  the  anonymous  signature  Bifrons 
of  the  date  April  23,  1768.  Gopde  assigns  in  his  edition 
no  reason  for  its  selection  as  a  genuine  production  of 
Junius.  All  critics  are  bewildered  by  the  following 
curious  assertion  of  Bifrons :  '  I  am  not  deeply  read  in 
authors  of  that  professed  title  (casuists),  but  I  remember 
seeing  Busenbaum,  Suarez,  Molina,  and  a  score  of  other 
Jesuitical  books,  burnt  at  Paris  for  their  sound  casuistry, 
by  the  hands  of  the  common  hangman.' 

Now,  no  Briton  or  Irishman  coidd,  in  reasonable  pro- 
bability, have  witnessed  the  public  destruction  of  these 
Jesuit  works  in  the  summer  of  1761,  Great  Britain  and 
France  being  then  at  war,  unless  such  witness  had  been 
either  a  prisoner  of  war,  or  in  the  suite  of  Mr.  Hans 
Stanley,  who  at  that  period  was  our  ambassador  opening 
negotiations  for  peace  ;  or,  unless  Hans  Stanley  himself 
had  several  years  afterwards  himself  written  Bifrons. 
And  it  was  obviously  improbable  that  anyone  publishing 
under  such  anonymous  signature  a  severe  personal  attack 
on  the  prime  minister  would  have  run  the  risk  of  identi- 
fying himself  by  the  narrative  in  question.  Therefore, 
the  pretended  presence  of  Bifrons  at  the  Paris  auto  da  fe 
of  1761  was  almost  certainly  the  fiction  of  the  anonymous 
writer,  and  probably  for  the  better  concealment  of  his 


1768]  BURNING  OF  THE  JESUIT  BOOKS.  193 

identification.  As  such  a  ruse  it  has  been  hitherto  most 
successful.  Bifrons  was  supposed  to  tell  the  truth  when 
he  asserted  for  disguise  an  ingenious  falsehood.  Works 
of  the  above-named  Jesuit  authors  were  burnt  in  Paris 
in  1761  (and  at  no  other  near  period  are  they  known 
to  have  been  thus  stigmatised  in  Paris),  but  we  may 
fairly  conjecture  that  neither  Bifrons  nor  Junius  could 
have  been  present.  All  who  know  the  character  and 
politics  of  Hans  Stanley  must  be  convinced  that  he  was 
not  Bifrons,  and  the  names  of  the  few  persons  in  his  suite 
who  might  possibly  have  seen  the  burning  present  no 
possible  writer  of  such  a  letter  in  1768.  But  the  enigma 
may  be  discovered,  as  follows : — 

Philip  Francis  was  not,  as  asserted  by  Wade,  in  Lisbon 
at  the  period  of  the  burning  of  these  books  at  Paris.     He 
had  returned  with  Lord  Kinnoul  from  Portugal,  landing 
in  England  on  November  19, 1760.     On  his  arrival  home 
he  resumed  his  old  inferior  clerkship  in  Whitehall,  which 
he  had  no  doubt  held  in  commendam  during  his  temporary 
absence  in  Lisbon.     His  old  and  real  friend  Eobert  Wood, 
knowing  his  official  aptitude  and  knowledge  of  languages, 
with  Lord  Kinnoul's  good  word,  had  recommended  Francis, 
as  we  have  seen,  as  an  assistant  Treasury  clerk  to  Mr. 
Pitt   (Lord  Chatham),  then  Secretary  of  State   for   the 
Northern  Department  or  Foreign  Office.    In  that  relation 
to  Lord  Chatham,  until  the  dissolution  of  the  second  New- 
castle and  Pitt  ministry,  in  May  1762,  Francis  continued 
to  act  as  an  amanuensis  to  the  great  minister's  dictation. 
Stanley's  mission  to  Paris  occurred  during  this  time.    Many 
of  the  drafts  or  copies  of  Pitt's  correspondence  with  Stanley 
and  the  French  minister  are   extant   in  Francis's  hand- 
writing, so  that  the  young   clerk  was  (confidentially  of 
course)  informed  of  all  the  despatches  to  and  from  Paris 
during  the  negotiation.     The  official  collection  of  these 
VOL.  i.  o 


194  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1708 

diplomatic  and  political  correspondence  and  papers  is  pre- 
served in  the  State  Paper  Office.  Bifrons,  in  1768,  records 
only  an  incident  known  to  Francis  in  1761,  from  Francis's 
knowledge  of  such  official  documents.  A  despatch  from 
Stanley  to  Pitt,  dated  Paris,  August  18, 1761,  details  to  our 
minister  the  full  particulars  of  the  disputes  between  the 
King  of  France  and  his  parliament,  the  assembly  con- 
demning the  Jesuit  books  and  the  Court  taking  sides  with 
the  Roman  priests.  Stanley  writes  to  Pitt :  '  I  send  this 
letter  by  Mr.  Duval,  the  jeweller  ;  I  have  enclosed  you  the 
edicts  relating  to  the  Jesuits,  whose  affair  is  greatly  the 
subject  of  conversation.'  His  enclosure  contained  printed 
copies  of  the  Declaration  du  Roi,  Versailles,  2  aotit  1761  ; 
the  Arrct  de  la  Cour  du  Parlement,  extrait  des  Registres  du 
Parlement  du  6  aout  1761  ;  and  the  Arrets  de  la  Cour  de 
Parlement  du  6  aout  1761.  These  documents  contain  a 
list  or  catalogue  of  the  condemned  prohibited  books, 
comprising  some  dozen  political  and  theological  volumes. 
This  black  list  contains  the  titles  of  numerous  publications 
of  all  nations  ;  and  among  the  authors  denounced  are  the 
works  of  Busenbaum,  Suarez,  and  Molina,1  in  the  same 
order  in  which  those  names  appear  in  Bifrons.  Thus 
Philip  Francis,  in  the  disguise  of  Bifrons,  doubtless  informed 
himself  of  the  facts  stated,  of  the  condemnation  of  the 
particular  works  named,  '  with  a  score  of  other  Jesuitical 
books,'  garnishing  his  anecdote  by  the  fiction  of  his  own 

1  Par  Francis  Suarez,  J&mite,  en  son  livre  intitule  Tyranntcidium,  imprime 
en  1614,  condamne"  au  feu  par  arret  de  la  cour  du  20  juin  de  la  meme  annee. 

Depuis  1088,  jusqu'en  1729,  par  lea  Editions  multipliers  jusqu'au 
uombre  de  50,  ainsi  que  1'attestent  les  Je\suites,  auteurs  du  Journal  de 
Trevoux,  du  Livre  d'Herman  Busenbaum,  Je"suite ; 

Par  Claude  Lacroix,  Jesuite,  et  par  Colendall,  Je"suite,  commentateurs  et 
(•liteurs  dudit  JBusenbaum,  &c. 

Diaputationes  Roberti  Bellarmini  e  Societate  Jesu,  &c ,  1096. 

Ludovici  Molina,  primarii  quondam  in  Eborensi  Academia,  Sac.  Theol. 
Professoris,  e  societate  Jesu,  liber  de  Justitia  et  Jure ;  Moguntiae,  1602. 


1768]  BURNING  OF  THE  JESUIT  BOOKS.  195 

presence  at  the  auto  da  fe.  Bifrons  moreover  probably 
wrote  from  recollection  only  of  the  '  Index  Expurgatorius,' 
as  the  arret  contains  not  simply  one  score  but  several 
scores  of  polemical  volumes.  Nor  was  this  periodical 
conflict  with  continental  Jesuitism  a  novel  subject  to 
Francis.  It  will  be  recollected  that  during  the  Kinnoul 
mission  in  Portugal  fierce  contests  had  broken  out  against 
the  Order  of  Jesus,  detailed  in  the  interesting  letters 
written  by  him  to  his  father  Dr.  Francis.1  Further, 
among  Francis's  library  books  he  possessed  a  copy  of  the 
little  volume  '  Sur  la  Destruction  des  Jesuites  en  France,' 
1775,  containing  a  narrative  of  the  Jesuits'  misfortunes  of 
1761 ;  and  which  thus  shows  Francis's  continued  interest 
in  the  history  of  the  sect.  In  another  volume  of  quarto 
tracts  of  the  Junius  period,  Francis  has  incorporated  an 
original  Portuguese  printed  copy  of  the  '  Edital  Da  Eeal 
Meza  Censoria,'  a  royal  decree  October  6,  1770,  pro- 
hibiting the  import  or  circulation  of  scores  of  English, 
French,  German,  and  Italian  liberal  publications  on  politics 
and  religion — the  Jesuits  again  in  the  ascendant  at  Lisbon. 
The  letters  of  Junius,  and  such  of  the  miscellaneous  letters 
as  are  known  to  be  by  Junius,  abound  in  associations  with 
Catholicism  and  Jesuitism  in  particular.  Early  impressions 
in  Lisbon  explain  Francis's  hatred  of  superstition  and 
priestly  domination.  Such  an  indelible  association  marks 
the  mind  of  Junius ;  and  his  disgust  at  priestianity,  under 
all  disguises,  whether  Protestant  or  Catholic,  accounts  for 
the  freethinking  sentiments  undisguisedly  common  to 
Junius  and  Francis. 

Bifrons,   attacking    under  an   anonymous  signature    a 
prime  minister,  never  w^ould  have  stated  such  a  fact  as  his 

1  Lord  Kinnoul's  despatches  to  Pitt,  in  the  handwriting  of  Francis,  pre- 
served in  the  State  Paper  Office,  also  give  ample  details  of  the  same  occur- 
rences. 


o  2 


196  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

personal  presence  in  Paris  at  the  time  in  question,  had 
he  really  been  there.1 

1  Burning  of  the  Jesuit  Books. — I  wish  to  subjoin  a  few  words  of  my 
own  to  those  of  Mr.  Parkes  on  the  same  subject,  because  it  happened  to  me 
some  years  ago,  to  light  by  mere  accident  on  precisely  the  same  line  of  in- 
vestigation as  that  which  he  here  pursues.  In  an  essay  inserted  in  my 
volume  of '  Historical  Studies,'  under  the  title  '  Junius  and  Marat,'  both 
written  and  published  when  I  was  entirely  unacquainted  with  Mr.  Parkes's 
great  literary  occupation,  I  indicated  that  '  Bifrons,'  if  he  actually  witnessed 
the  execution,  must  probably  have  been  som,e  one  employed  by  the  Foreign 
Office ;  if  he  only  pretended  to  have  seen  it,  that  his  knowledge  was  pro- 
bably derived  from  Hans  Stanley's  curious  despatch  on  the  subject,  which 
he  perused  at  the  Foreign  Office ;  and  that  in  either  case  this  piece  of  evi- 
dence pointed  to  Francis.  I  said  at  the  same  time  that  Lord  Macaulay  was 
inclined  to  believe  in  the  first  alternative :  founding  his  opinion  in  great 
measure  on  Lady  Francis'  assertion,  quoted  by  Lord  Campbell,  '  He  was  at 
Paris  when  Madame  de  Pompadour  drove  out  the  Jesuits.' 

After  examination  of  the  arguments  of  Mr.  Pnrkes,  I  still  feel  some  uncer- 
tainty as  to  the  choice  of  alternatives.  The  circumstance  that  Francis' 
intended,  Miss  Macrabie,  condoled  with  her  lover  on  his  not  being  able  to 
obtain  the  post  of  Hans  Stanley's  secretary  at  Paris,  tells,  if  anything,  the 
other  way  :  so  determined  a  person  as  Francis  was  likely  to  pursue  his  object 
until  he  attained  it  in  one  form  or  another.  Though  it  is  certain  that  Lady 
Francis'  loose  assertions  are  worth  much  less  than  Lord  Campbell  supposed, 
or  than  I  did  when  I  wrote  the  essay  in  question,  yet  I  have  it  under 
her  hand  that  Francis  '  allowed  to  his  family  that  he  had  seen  the  Jesuit 
books  burnt  by  the  hangman.' 

Lastly,  Mr.  Parkes  says  (with  truth)  that  some  of  the  despatches  from 
Mr.  Pitt's  office  to  Hans  Stanley  are  in  Francis's  own  handwriting:  showing 
that  he  was  at  work  in  London.  But  I  have  ascertained  that  there  is  no 
entry  of  any  despatch  from  England  at  all  between  July  24, 1761,  and  August 
20  ;  leaving  ample  time  for  a  journey  to  Paris  and  back. 

On  the  other  hand,  Mr.  Parkes's  argument  that  so  nervously  cautious  a 
person  as  Francis  would  never  have  given  this  indication  of  his  identity, 
must  be  allowed  its  full  weight ;  and  I  must  add  that  I  have  not  discovered 
in  his  correspondence  any  allusion  whatever  to  a  visit  to  Paris  in  1761. 
The  burning  in  question  undoubtedly  took  place  in  1761,  a.nd  was  not 
postponed  (as  some  writers  on  Junius  have  asserted)  to  a  subsequent  year. — 
EDITOR. 


1708]   END  OF  MR.   PARKES'S  PORTION  OF  THIS  WORK.  197 


CHAPTER  VI. 

COMMENCEMENT    OF   JUNIUS. 

[>ET.  29.] 

Relations  between  Wilkes  and  Junius,  1768 — Correspondence  with 
Dr.  Francis  and  others — Anonymous  Letters  to  George  Grenville. 

THE  unfinished  memoir  of  Sir  Philip  Francis  by  Mr. 
Parkes  ends  thus  abruptly  in  the  middle  of  the  year  1768  ; 
half  a  year  before  the  appearance  of  the  first  letter  of 
Junius  (January  21,  1769) l  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser.' 
All  my  researches  to  discover  any  continuation  among  the 
mass  of  papers  left  behind  him  by  Mr.  Parkes  have  been 
unsuccessful. 

It  will  have  been  long  ago  ascertained  by  the  reader 
that  Mr.  Parkes  entertained  no  doubt  that  Sir  Philip 
Francis  was  the  sole  author  of  the  letters  signed  Junius : 
farther,  that  he  was  the  writer  (wholly  or  almost  wholly) 
of  the  '  Miscellaneous  Letters  ascribed  to  Junius,'  in 
Woodfall's  and  subsequent  editions ;  and,  lastly,  that  he 
was  the  author  of  the  celebrated  series  styled  the  '  Candor 
Pamphlets,'  and  of  a  great  variety  of  miscellaneous  contri- 
butions to  the  political  press  for  four  or  five  years  pre- 
ceding 1769. 

It  will  have  been  seen  also  that  Mr.  Parkes.  arrived  at 
these  conclusions  by  a  most  refined  and  elaborate  method 
of  investigation.  He  traced  the  path  of  his  anonymous 

1  The  first,  that  is,  of  the  printed  collection.  The  first  bearing  that  signa- 
ture appeared  November  22,  1768. — Bonn's  '  Junius,'  ii.  257. 


198  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

hero  through  the  files  of  the  '  Daily  Advertiser,'  week 
after  week ;  sifted  and  compared  the  compositions  which 
he  was  led  to  attribute  to  him  ;  and  showed  from  the 
notices  of  them  inserted  from  time  to  time  by  Woodfall,  the 
publisher,  both  the  value  which  Woodfall  himself  attributed 
to  them,  and  also  Woodfall's  own  evident  conviction  that 
he  had  to  deal,  almost  exclusively,  with  one  mysterious 
correspondent.  And  then  Mr.  Parkes  proceeded  to  illus- 
trate the  productions,  thus  selected  and  classified,  by 
comparison  with  what  we  knew  already  of  the  life  of 
Francis,  and  with  the  hitherto  unknown  materials  which 
the  private  papers  of  Francis  afforded  him.  In  this  manner 
he  wove  together  a  most  ingenious  fabric,  of  the  solidity 
of  which  the  reader  must  judge  for  himself,  although  the 
editor  may  be  permitted  to  add  his  own  strong  general 
belief  in  it,  with  such  slight  deductions  as  have  been  here 
and  there  already  indicated. 

I  entertain  no  doubt  that  Mr.  Parkes's  plan  was  to  con- 
duct the  same  method  of  minute  investigation  and  com- 
parison through  the  remaining  six  years  of  Francis's  sup- 
posed newspaper  activity — from  the  spring  of  1768  to 
that  of  1774,  when  he  left  England  for  India.  But  he 
had  not  prepared  his  materials  for  this  purpose,  or  I  have 
been  unable  to  discover  them.  And,  feeling  that  the  task 
which  he  had  then  proposed  to  himself,  though  with  him 
a  labour  of  love,  would  have  been  even  to  him  an  en- 
grossing employment  for  years  of  life — feeling  my  own 
inability  to  continue  it,  and  doubting  the  readiness  of  the 
public  to  bestow  close  attention  on  a  voluminous  work, 
which  seems  to  me  almost  one  of  supererogation — I  made 
up  my  mind  to  carry  on  his  scheme  on  a  very  reduced, 
and  what  to  him  would  have  seemed  a  very  insufficient, 
scale.  I  shall  leave  the  more  developed  investigation  to 
the  care  of  some  future  editor  of  Junius,  and  content  my- 


1768]          EXAMINATION  OF  THE  JUNIUS  QUESTION.         199 

self  with  the  narrative  of  the  life  of  Francis  himself,  as 
illustrated  by  the  manuscript  materials  in  rny  possession  ; 
enabling  the  reader  to  compare  that  narrative,  pas  a  pas, 
with  the  indications  furnished  by  the  three  printed  series 
of  Letters  :  those  of  Junius  (public),  those  of  the  supposed 
Junius  (private,  to  Woodfall),  and  those  headed  in  Wood- 
fall's  and  subsequent  editions  '  Miscellaneous,  ascribed  to 
Junius.' 

Of  the  results  of  such  a  comparison — which  he  had 
fully  carried  on  in  his  mind,  although,  as  I  have  said,  he 
had  not  completed  his  preparations  for  the  press — 
Mr.  Parkes  had,  as  I  have  said,  no  doubt.  He  had 
made  almost  ready  for  publication  a  curious  analysis  and 
disproof,  seriatim,  of  all  the  claims  which  have  been  set 
up  in  favour  of  other  candidates,  some  thirty-seven,  he 
says,  in  number  (but  there  are  more),  for  the  honour  of 
the  authorship  of  Junius.  But  to  enter  farther  into  that 
discussion  would  exceed  the  limits  which  I  have  imposed 
on  myself.  The  chief  proofs  which  fix  the  authorship  on 
Francis  have  always  been  considered  to  be  three  :  the 
peculiar  conformity  of  the  known  events  and  experiences 
of  his  life  with  what  we  must  suppose,  from  Junius' 
own  indications,  respecting  Junius ;  similarities  of  style, 
temper,  character ;  and,  lastly,  similarity  of  handwriting, 
tested  by  the  '  private  letters '  of  Junius  to  Woodfali, 
of  which  facsimiles  are  inserted  in  many  works,  from 
Taylor's  'Junius  Identified'  downwards.  All  these 
classes  of  proof  are  strengthened  in  many  cases,  in  no 
single  case  invalidated,  by  the  contents  of  the  manu- 
scripts collected  and  examined  by  Mr.  Parkes.  And  Mr. 
Parkes  added  a  fourth  element  of  proof :  that  afforded  by 
the  War  Office  paper  and  seals  used  by  Junius,  to  which 
reference .  is  made  in  the  preface,  and  which  will  be 
found  developed  in  the  Appendix  to  this  work.  The 


200  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

weight  of  the  whole  must,  I  repeat,  be  left  to  the  reader 
to  estimate.     I  will,  only  add,  for  myself,  the  expression 
of  what  I  felt   long  ago,   when  first   commencing   the 
4  Junius  '  inquiry  in  mere  curiosity,  and  have  felt  far  more 
strongly  in  studying  these  new  materials.     All  the  lines  of 
investigation  which  have  been  followed,  or  can  be  followed, 
in  order  to  trace  the  authorship  to  this  or  that  known  in- 
dividual, except  Francis,  fail  at  a  certain  point.    Like  the 
paths  in  a  child's  play  labyrinth,  they  are  cut  short  at  some 
point  or  other  by  a  transverse  bar.  They  end  in  impossibili- 
ties.   The  remaining  path,  to  which  one  clue  only  leads  us, 
becomes  plainer  and  plainer  the  farther  the  investigation 
is  conducted.     No  transverse  bar,  no  failure  of  any  sort, 
intervenes  between  us  and  our  end.      Of  the  strength  of 
the  affirmative  evidence  for  Francis  people  have  hitherto 
doubted,  and  may  perhaps  doubt  in  future.     But  of  the 
weakness  of  all  the  evidence  which  has  been  adduced  in 
favour   of    any   one   else,   there  cannot   really  be   two 
opinions.     And  the  editor  can  only  add,  as  an  assertion 
to   which  he  hopes  credit   will   be   given,  that   all  his 
examination  of  the  mass  of  papers  submitted  to  his  eye, 
and   from   which  the   work  now  offered    to  the  public 
contains  only  a  trifling  selection,  has  tended  towards  the 
same  result.     He  has  not  discovered  a  single  record  or  a 
single    passage  which   raises    (by  comparison   of  dates, 
sentiments,  or  other  circumstances)  the  slightest  impro- 
bability against  the  current  supposition.    On  the  contrary, 
he  can  subscribe  literally  to  the  conclusion  of  Mr.  Taylor, 
in  his  '  Junius  Identified,'  arrived  at  fifty  years  ago,  from 
far   less    copious   materials   for  judgment :  '  In   all   his 
researches,  the  writer  has  never  met  with  one  thought, 
one  fact,  one  word,  which  in  the  slightest  degree  impeded 
the   course  of  his   demonstration.      This   is  a   negative 
criterion  of  the  truth,    but  is  of  no    small  value    after 


1768]  PAPERS  IN  APPENDIX.  201 

so  extensive  a  survey,  and  it  properly  crowns  the  whole 
pile  of  evidence.' 

I  propose  to  add,  by  way  of  Appendix  to  this  volume, 
such  scattered  fragments  of  observation  on  the  Junius 
controversy  as  have  been,  left  by  Mr.  Parkes  ;  and  would 
particularly  call  attention  to  the  paper  in  the  Appendix, 
already  mentioned,  containing  his  own  rough  memoranda 
of  a  careful  comparison  of  the  originals  of  the  '  Private 
Letters  of  Junius '  to  H.  S.  Woodfall  with  materials  at 
the  War  Office.  I  have  added,  farther,  some  miscellaneous 
papers,  of  which  the  remarkable  "  Autobiographical 
Fragment "  is  the  principal,  and  some  letters  addressed  to 
Francis,  in  the  years  1768-70,  from  America,  by  his  cor- 
respondents Macrabie  and  Tilghnian.  They  are  curious, 
and  have  a  Transatlantic  interest  of  their  own,  but  I 
preferred  placing  them  thus  apart  to  interrupting  the 
continuity  of  the  life. 

In  the  middle  of  1768,  where  Mr.  Parkes's  biography 
leaves  him,  Francis  was  still  in  employment  as  a  clerk  in 
the  War  Office,  under  Lord  Barrington.  Before  entering 
on  the  subject  of  his  private  correspondence,  I  will  only 
in  passing  refer  the  reader,  in  continuation  of  Mr.  Parkes's 
remarks  on  the  Candor  letters,  to  the  letters  of '  0.'  to 
George  Grenville,  published  in  the  '  Grenville  Correspon- 
dence.' 

On  February  6,  1768, '  C.'  had  addressed  his  first  letter 
to  George  Grenville.  Mr.  Parkes's  comments  on  that  letter, 
and  the  inferences  to  be  drawn  from  it,  are  to  be  found  in 
the  last  chapter.  I  only  allude  to  it  again  in  order  to 
subjoin  a  farther  rough  note  on  the  subject  which  I  find 
among  his  papers. l 

1  Again  borrowing  of  Mr.  Murray  the  Grenville  Junius  MS.  Papers,  I  again 
note : — 

1.  That  the  anonymous  letter,  February  6,  1768,  is  on  a  sheet  of  4to  paper 
— paper  and  watermark  same  as  that  in  use  at  the  date  in  the  War  Office. 


202  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1763 

The  last  of  the  '  Miscellaneous  '  letters  commented  on 
by  Mr.  Parkes  is  that  signed  Fiat  Justitia,  May  12, 1768. 
But  in  this  busy  year,  the  Duke  of  Grafton  became 
First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  on  the  retirement  of  Lord 
Chatham,  and  constituted  that  Government  which  it 
became  the  special  mission  of  Junius  to  attack.  During 
the  course  of  it,  the  anonymous  pen  contributed  to 
the  columns  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  twenty-eight 
more,  which  are.  incorporated  in  that  collection,  under 
several  of  his  usual  signatures,  particularly  Atticus  and 
Lucius :  the  first  under  that  of  Junius  being  the  short 
one  on  the  general  warrant  question  of  November  21, 
17G8.  Probably  no  better  reason  can  be  assigned  for  its 
omission  from  Junius's  own  collective  edition  than  that 

The  only  correction  is  the  erasure  of ' founded J  twice  written. 

The  handwriting  is  Francis's  palpably,  but  though  upright  and  feigned,  it 
is  a  larger  character  than  the  subsequent  and  later  Junius  MSS. 

The  enclosure  is  on  a  folio  **heet,  and  the  paper  and  watermark  is  also 
that  used  in  the  War  Office.  The  paper  has  corrections.  It  is  in  Francis's 
large  hand,  upright  as  disguise — forming  the  disguised  Junius  hand,  but 
not  as  afterwards  habitually  disguised. 

'2.  The  letter  of  September  3,  1708,  is  on  4to  paper,  but  I  can't  identify 
its  material  or  watermark  with  War  Office  paper  of  the  period.  Only  one 
word  erased  (before  '  satisfactory  ')  ;  I  can't  decipher  the  word  crossed  out. 

3.  The  letter  October  20,  1768,  is  large  4to  paper,  gilt  edged,  watermark 
not  quite  readable  from  the  letter  being  pasted  on  a  guard,  and  half  or 
partially  concealed.  It  is  apparently  the  name  of  a  maker  like  '  Porter.' 
It  is  similar  to  the  others  as  to  disguised  writing,  but  in  several  words  palpably 
Francis's  penmanship.  ('  A  policy  I  cannot  understand ; ')  is  between 
marks  of  parenthesis;  apparently  the  marks  after  the  letter  was  finished. 

'  Your  Cause,' — your  is  italicised  ;  '  Grand  Council '  the  same. 
I  have 

'  The  great  desire  A  of  being  honoured,'   &c.   is  careted  in  the  original. 

The  Atticus  printed '  Public  Advertiser '  in  Murray's  folio  was  an  enclosure 
evidently  sent  by  Junius,  because  the  writer  has  in  ink  corrected  one  sentence 
or  rather  altered  it,  scoring  or  italicising  'foreseeinr/ '  and  'proceeding,'  insert- 
ing 'to  have  been  marked,'  and  deleing  ' the  means.' 

Another  newspaper  copy  of  another  Atticus  letter  is  in  Murray's  folio 
MS.  dated  November  15,  1768,  apparently  Mr.  Grenville's  MS.  dating. 

Also  printed  letter  signed,  '  The  spirit  which  now  animates  the  London 
Gazette.'— [J.  PAKKES.] 


1768]  PRIVATE  LETTERS.  203 

conjectured  by  Mr.  Wade  (Bohn's  'Junius,'  ii.  259),  that 
the  series  would  more  fitly  begin  with  the  new  year, 
1769.  Perhaps  the  most  remarkable  among  these,  in 
connexion  with  the  supposed  authorship,  is  that  without 
signature  (August  6),  which  contains  an  elaborate  de- 
fence of  the  character  and  policy  of  George  Grenville. 
We  have  seen,  and  shall  farther  see,  how  anxious  the 
anonymous  writer  was,  just  at  this  time,  to  ingratiate 
himself  witli  that  personage,  from  the  special  communica- 
tions which  he  repeatedly  addressed  him. 

I  now  proceed  with  the  series  of  private  MS.  letters 
to  and  from  Francis  during  the  same  year  :— 

To  his  Brother-in-law  Macrabie,  in  Pennsylvania. 

London,  March  12,  1768. 

Dear  Mac. — The  last  pacquet  brought  me  two  letters   from  you, 
after  a  very  long  interval,  of  December  15  and  January  20. 

The  first  observation  I  made  upon  them  was,  that  they  were 
not  under  the  Secretary  of  War's  cover,  upon  which  I  leave  you  to 
make  your  own  reflections.  But  now  for  my  answers.  As  long  as 
you  grow  fat  in  America,  you  may  be  said  to  be  in  a  thriving  con- 
dition ;  the  future  must  take  care  of  itself.  But  would  it  not  be 
worth  your  prudence  to  consider  what  is  to  be  done  when  your 
term  with  Mr.  Neave  expires  ?  Undoubtedly  you  have  considered 
of  it ;  yet  if  you  should  not  be  able  to  resolve  on  anything,  I  am 
sure  I  enter  too  much  into  your  situation  to  blame  you.  We  have 
long  since  agreed  how  easy  it  is  to  find  fault ;  but  whoever  fails  you, 
be  always  assured  that  my  heart  will  for  ever  be  open  to  you ;  in 
short,  if  you  cannot  determine  upon  any  plan  where  you  are,  you 
have  nothing  to  do  but  to  return  to  my  house  and  stay  in  it  untill 
something  else  can  be  thought  of.  I  so  much  agree  with  you  about 
landed  possessions  in  America,  and  the  security  that  may  arise  from 
them  hereafter,  that  I  shall  commission  my  cousin  Captain  Francis, 
who  is  now  here,  to  purchase  a  thousand  acres  for  me  in  the  course 
of  next  summer,  which  he  assures  me  he  can  do  for  a  mere  trifle. 
By  the  by,  this  is  a  noble  fellow,  and  if  you  meet  him  in  America 
will,  I  am  sure,  contribute  not  a  little  to  the  happiness  of  your  life 
there.  My  other  unfortunate  cousin,  as  far  as  I  can  learn,  for 
I  never  see  him,  has  no  sort  of  prospect  of  being  extricated  from  his 
difficulties  without  an  immense  loss.  Poor  fellow  !  I  feel  for  him. 
[Two  pages  cut  out.] 


204  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

However,  he  found  at  last,  by  the  sneers  thrown  out  against  him 
in  the  public  papers  and  elsewhere,  that  to  take  Mr.  Rice  into  the 
field  was  unavoidable  ;  and  certainly  this  resolution,  though  too  late, 
was  the  only  wise  one  he  could  take.  They  met.  Rutherford  fired 
and  missed  Rice,  who  stood  full,  and  as  soon  as  he  had  received  the 
fire,  discharged  his  own  pistol  in  the  air.  Upon  this  they  were  re- 
conciled ;  but  the  paper  war  between  the  other  parties  has  continued 
as  furiously  as  ever.1 

Your  sister  and  the  children  are  perfectly  well.  Tour  father 
writes  so  fully  to  you  upon  his  affairs  that  I  shall  not  trouble  you 
with  any  other  account  of  them.  Besides  I  am  but  imperfectly  in- 
formed in  these  matters,  except  that  in  general  I  understand  the  old 
folks  are  tolerably  happy,  and  that  Patty  continues  to  be  mad 
enough  in  all  reason.  To-morrow  I  set  out  for  Bath,  where  I  am  to 
spend  a  week  with  a  jolly  party.  That  place  has  certainly  bewitched 
me,  yet  one  would  think  my  father's  going  to  reside  there  would 
have  removed  the  charm.2 

Did  I  tell  you  that  Mr.  Chandler3  has  bought  a  large  house  in 
Bruton  Street  ?  They  are  now  at  the  summit  of  their  wishes  in  point 
of  habitation.  It  is  to  undergo  a  thorough  repair,  and  I  think  they 
expect  to  be  in  possession  in  two  or  three  months.  Wilkes  is  setting 
up  for  the  City  of  London.  We  are  all  as  mad  about  elections  as  ever 
you  Americans  were  about  the  Stamp  Act.  I  do  not  recollect  any- 
thing else  that  has  happened  here  worth  your  attention. 

Pray  let  me  know  how  my  cousins  in  general  have  received  you, 
or  whether  you  have  had  any  sign  of  life  from  Captain  Maturin. 

It's  now  generally  thought  that  Jack  Wilkes  *  will  be  elected  for 
the  City  of  London.  He  dined  with  the  Lord  Mayor  yesterday 
with  the  rest  of  the  candidates. 

Farewell,  my  dear  Mac.     Jusqu'au  revoir. 

P.  FRANCIS. 

The  pamphlets  I  shall  commit  to  the  care  of  Messrs.  Neave. 
I  send  you  herewith  two  letters  from  your  father. 
Your  sister  and  nieces  thrive  tolerably. 

Yours  again  and  again. 

1  I  cannot  explain  this  mutilated  passage. 

3  The  breach  occasioned  by  the  marriage  was  not  yet  fully  repaired ;  very 
naturally  not  in  the  eyes  of  Macrabie. 

s  A  relative  of  Mrs.  Francis,  and  very  intimate  friend  of  the  Francis 
family ;  a  wealthy  and  liberal  man,  concerning  whom  much  is  contained  in 
the  Francis  papers. 

4  Just  at  this  period,  Wilkes  was  the  bete  noire  of  the  anonymous  con- 
tributor.    See  especially  the  violent  letter  of  C.  (April  6,  1768.) 


1768]  PRIVATE  CORRESPONDENCE.  205 

The  following  (and  several  more)  are  from  Dr.  Francis 
at  Bath  to  his  son  in  London.  It  is  evident  that  the 
4  pere  prodigue '  was  at  this  time  in  receipt  of  frequent 
assistance — at  least  by  way  of  advance  on  his  government 
pension — from  his  son  ;  whose  means  of  affording  such 
aid,  holding  only  as  he  did  a  small  government  appoint- 
ment, and  burdened  with  an  increasing  family,  are  by  no 
means  rendered  clear  by  anything  traceable  in  his  private 
history. 

Bath,  April  3,  1768. 

My  dear  Phil. — It  was  a  kind  attention  to  prepare  me  for  an 
unlucky  accident.  Nobody  hurt.  I  hope  too  not  greatly  frightened. 
All  the  best  wishes  of  my  affection. 

I  feel  very  sensibly  the  offer  you  made  me.  Tho'  I  have  a 
pleasure  in  receiving  kindnesses  from  those  I  love,  yet  it  is  a 
pleasure  not  unmixed  with  pain.  I  would  sometimes  avoid  it.  A  few 
days  ago,  I  thought  I  could  have  waited  for  my  Royal  Bounty  with 

perfect  economy,  but Let  me  then  desire  you  to  send  me  a  fifty 

pound  Bank-note  by  post,  for  I  find  it  difficult  and  awkward  to 
negotiate  with  our  little  bank  here. 

I  thank  you  for  the  newspapers.  I  thank  Mr.  D'Oyly  and 
Mr.  Sneyd  ;  but  surely  you  have  not  received  my  letter  in  which  I 
told  you  I  was  ashamed  to  give  them  a  trouble  for  nothing,  for 
what  I  could  buy  and  ought  to  pay.  I  neither  desire  nor  expect 
them  any  longer.  .  .  .  * 

1  I  subjoin  in  the  form  of  a  note  to  this  letter  of  April  3,  the  following 
memorandum,  by  Mr.  Parkes,  on  the  subject  of  the  relations  between  Wilkes 
and  Junius  : — 

'  We  have  been  threatened,'  says  Dr.  Francis,  '  with  the  honour  of  a  visit 
from  Mr.  Wilkes  and  those  other  zealous  friends  of  liberty,  Coates  and  Beard- 
more.  I  have  kept  open  my  letter  to  the  last  moment  that  I  might  entertain 
you  with  these  triumphant  entrys  in  honour  of  the  repeated  victories  they 
have  gained  over  the  king,  laws,  and  constitution  of  their  country.  Farewell.' 
In  the  following  week,  April  7,  the  Doctor  again  writes  to  his  son,  on  business, 
and  on  the  same  topic  adds :  '  Wilkes  came  into  Bath  on  Sunday  evening 
with  so  little  noise — I  ought  perhaps  to  have  said  with  so  much  modesty — 
that  he  seein'd  to  avoid  the  triumph  he  was  conscious  of  having  deserv'd. 
He  shews  himself  every  morning  in  the  pump  room,  and  his  daughter  minuets 
it  at  the  ball  at  night.  In  both  they  gaze  at  her  father,  whether  as  a 
miracle  or  a  monster  perhaps  it  were  difficult  to  determine.  But  the  news 
of  Bath,  like  its  waters,  should  be  drunk  hot  from  the  pump.' 


206  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  April  9,  1768. 

I  heartily  rejoice  with  you  on  your  family's  escaping  a  danger, 
that  in  its  consequences  might  have  been  worse  than  death — broken 
limbs  and  lameness  for  life.  I  hope  I  love  goodnature.  I  would 
rather,  if  the  good  opinion  of  this  very  worthless  world  were  worth 
a  wish,  be  thought  goodnatured  than  a  learned,  generous,  pious, 
or  even  honest  man  ;  yet  if  the  fellow  who  overturned  your  coach 
did  it  in  his  brutality,  or  even  his  carelessness,  as  far  as  law  could 

Curiously,  not  four  years  afterwards,  we  meet  Wilkes  nnd  Juniiis  dancing 
a  political  minuet  together,  Junius  declining  Miss  Wilkes  as  a  minuet 
partner.  Wilkes  in  his  private  letter  to  Junitis,  October  17,  1771,  offers 
Juniiis  dinner  or  ball  tickets  for  the  Lord  Mayor's  day,  for  himself,  or  friends, 
or  a  favourite,  or  Junta.  Wilkes  adds:  '  How  happy  should  I  be  to  see  my 
Portia  here  dance  a  graceful  minuet  with  Juuius  Brutus !  but  Junus  is 
inexorable  and  I  .submit.  I  will  send  your  tickets  to  Woodfall.' 

Junius  in  his  reply,  doubtless  affecting  old  age  (as  he  was  unlikely  to 
confess  his  real  age),  answers:  'Many  thanks  for  your  obliging  offer ;  but 
alas  !  my  age  and  figure  would  do  little  credit  to  my  partner.  I  acknow- 
ledge the  relation  between  Cato  and  Portia,  but  in  truth  I  see  no  connection 
between  Junius  and  a  minuet.' 

These  curious  letters  of  Dr.  Francis  to  his  son  respecting  Wilkes  preceded 
by  many  months  the  first  letter  of  Junius.  But  two  of  the  miscellaneous 
letters  ascribed  to  the  same  writer  preceded  by  some  days  the  Bath 
visit  of  Wilkes,  appearing  in  the  '  Daily  Advertiser,'  on  April  5  (1768), 
under  the  signatures  C.  and  Q.  in  the  Corner.  In  both  these  anonymous 
letters  the  ministry  was  denounced  for  permitting  Mr.  Wilkes  to  return 
from  France  to  England  with  impunity.  His  outlawry  was  not  reversed, 
and  on  his  return  to  London  from  Bath,  he  surrendered  for  judgment. 
Subsequently  Junius.  on  the  question  of  the  Middlesex  return  and  Wilkes's 
expulsion  from  the  House  of  Commons  and  his  re-election,  espoused  his 
cause ;  and  not  inconsistently.  The  genuineness  of  the  above  first  mis- 
cellaneous letter  (6),  however,  depends  on  its  internal  evidence.  Its 
designation  of  Wilkes  as  '  a  man  of  most  infamous  character  in  private  life,' 
and  its  other  severe  and  cutting  animadversions  on  his  political  as  well 
as  moral  character,  tally  with  those  after-attacks  by  Junius  in  propria  persona 
which  Wilkes  confesses  fell  so  heavy  upon  him  towards  the  conclusion  of 
1769.  Junius  throughout  his  private  confidential  correspondence  with 
Wilkes  does  not  disguise  the  reasons  for  his  advocacy  of  the  rights  of  the 
Middlesex  electors,  nor  does  he  with  any  niggard  hand  administer  most 
sensible  and  honest  advice  that  Wilkes  should  adopt  a  higher  public 
character  and  keep  more  select  political  company.  An  admirable  j  udgment 
and  generous  spirit  pervades  this  portion  of  the  letters,  which  clearly 
the  writer  never  expected  would  become  public  during  the  lives  of  either 
party.  Junius  captivated  the  heart  of  his  old  enemy  and  conquered  his 
reason.— [J.  PAKKES.] 


1768]  PRIVATE  CORRESPONDENCE.  207 

punish,  I  should  think  that  justice  ought.  He  may  have  a  wife 
and  children,  yet  I  really  think  a  private  individual  has  not  a  right 
to  forgive  an  injury  that  affects  the  public. 

I  would  yesterday  have  acknowledged  and  thanked  you  for  your 
bill,  but  Friday  is  not  our  post  day  to  London. 

I  don't  remember  whether  I  told  you  that  Wilkes  and  Liberty, 
those  inseparables,  arrived  here  last  Sunday.  They  lodge  together 
in  the  South  Parade;  and,  posted  on  the  lamp  before  the  door, 
in  printed  capitals  of  largest  size,  their  names  shine  forth  at 
midnight.  I  find  I  have  been  insensibly  writing  heroicks.  It  is 
the  inspiration  of  Liberty.  We  have  here  a  silent  beau  mot  of  Mr. 
Wilkes  that  may  rank  with  the  sublime  silences  of  antiquity. 

,  you  know  his  character,  was  rallying  Wilkes  with  somewhat 

too  coarse  a  pleasantry,  who  stepping  up  to  him  with  a  very  signi- 
ficant important  look,  examined  his  neck,  especially  his  left  ear,  as 
if  he  searched  for  Jack  Ketch's  mark.  Farewell. 

Yours  with  all  truth, 

P.  F. 

Saturday  night. 

Francis  to  Macrabie. 

London,  April  16,  1768. 

My  Dear  Mac. — Since  my  letter  of  the  last  pacquet  nothing  has 
happened  here  of  profit  or  of  amusement ;  but  I  am  determined  you 
shall  never  want  the  consolation  of  a  few  lines,  while  I  am  able  to 
write  them.  Mr.  Wilkes,  after  failing  in  his  attempt  to  be  chosen  for 
the  City* of  London,  thought  it  adviseable  to  offer  himself  candidate 
for  the  county  of  Middlesex,  and  has  carried  it  by  a  large  majority. 
The  attention  of  the  kingdom  has  for  above  a  month  past  been 
entirely  fixed  upon  this  gentleman  and  his  measures  ;  and  we  still 
wait  with  fearfull  expectation  for  the  twentieth  of  this  month,  on 
which  day  he  has  pledged  his  honour  that  he  will  surrender  him- 
self in  Westminster  Hall. 

About  three  weeks  ago,  our  coach,  with  all  the  family  in  it  but 
myself,  was  broken  down  in  a  most  dreadful  manner  by  a  country 
waggon  drawn  by  eight  horses.  It  was  hardly  less  than  a  miracle 
that  seven  people  did  not  lose  their  lives  by  the  malice  and 
brutality  of  the  fellow  who  drove  the  waggon.  I  have  commenced 
an  action  against  the  owner,  and  with  the  help  of  your  friend  Mr. 
Meyrick  and  of  Sir  Fletcher  Norton,  whom  I  have  retained,  I  have 
no  doubt  of  recovering  considerable  damages.  I  enclose  you  a  letter 
from  your  father.  Sometime  ago  I  sent  you  two  pamphlets  about 
your  friend  Rutherford  and  Coleman,  which  I  hope  you  have  re- 
ceived. They  are  now  pretty  quiet,  though  they  remain  mortal 


208  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

enemies.  In  the  winter  I  suppose  the  war  will  break  out  afresh. 
Mrs.  Chandler,  I  think,  seems  inclined  to  continue  her  contribution 
of  40Z.  a  year  to  your  father,  and  if  she  does  she  will  act  handsomely, 
and  they  may  live  more  happily  than  ever  they  did. 

I  hope  and  suppose  that,  by  this  time,  you  begin  to  see  a  little  more 
clearly  what  your  future  plan  and  expectation  is  likely  to  be.  I 
must  beg  of  you  to  be  a  little  explicit  upon  this  article,  as  I  am  really 
anxious  to  know  what  your  views  towards  an  establishment  are,  or 
whether  you  have  any.  I  need  not  repeat  what  I  hope  you  are 
convinced  of,  that,  tho'  all  fail,  my  house  is  your  sure  retreat :  so 
be  not  unhappy  about  a  disappointment  more  or  less,  nor  let  any 
untoward  accident  discourage  you,  since  you  will  always  have  the 
means  of  keeping  your  head  above  water  with  me,  and  something 
must  inevitably  turn  up  for  your  good.  Your  friend  Oliver  has  been 
lingering  for  a  long  time  under  a  consumptive  disorder,  which  he 
expected  would  kill  him,  but  lately  he  finds  himself  surprisingly  re- 
covered.   's  mother  is  dead.  I  met  him  not  long  ago  at  a  gentle- 
man's chambers,  where  there  were  ladies,  fidelles,  and  all  manner  of 
riot ;  but  he,  thinking  it  incumbent  upon  him  to  preserve  a  becoming 
gravity,  had  no  powder  in  his  wig,  and  looked  as  black  as  Vulcan  ; 
but  I  don't  know  how  it  happened,  before  two  hours  were  passed 
he  contrived  to  get  soberly  fuddled,  forgot  his  grief,  and  concluded 
with  a  minuet  and  a  Scotch  reel  with  two  doxies.  N.B.  His  mother 
could  hardly  have  been  cold,  as  she  expired  but  the  night  before. 

I  had  written  so  far  when  yesterday  your  several  letters  of 
February  10  and  March  10  were  brought  to  me.  You  are  very 
good  to  write  so  much,  and  I  assure  you  it  pleases  me  not  a  little  to 
see  that  you  can  write  in  such  good  spirits,  and  with  so  much  spirit. 
If  these  cousins  of  mine  are  so  handsome,  and  so  clever,  and  so  in- 
viting, take  care  of  your  heart.  Observe  that  I  forbid  the  bans. 
Pray  take  every  opportunity  that  offers  of  assuring  the  handsomest 
of  my  cousins ,  what  a  respect  I  bear  to  female  beauty,  and  that, 
since  they  are  handsome  I  do  not  love  them  the  less  for  being  my 
relations 

Your  sister  is  greatly  obliged  to  you  for  your  ingenious  letter, 
but  contents  herself  with  permitting  me  to  answer  for  her.  Her 
waist  is  swelling  immoderately,  and  there  are  people  who  think  she 
has  taken  a  fourth  dose  of  poison.  You  will  probably  hear  more  of 
it  about  the  beginning  of  October 

Inclosed  I  send  you  a  letter  I  have  received  by  the  last  pacquet 
from  Captain  Maturin,  General  Gage's  secretary,  by  which  you  may 
perceive  that  you  are  likely  to  be  on  as  respectable  a  footing  at  New 
York  as  you  have  found  yourself  at  Philadelphia.  Let  me  know 


1768]  PRIVATE  CORRESPONDENCE.  209 

whether  you  have  heard  anything  of  Mr.  Atchy  Thompson,  to  whom 
I  gave  you  a  letter  ;  what  his  circumstances  are,  and  how  he  thrives. 
My  cousin  the  colonel  I  suspect  is  suddenly  decamped,  without  beat 
of  drum,  for  North  America.  He  broke  an  appointment  with  me  about 
three  weeks  ago,  and  I  have  never  heard  of  him  since.  If  you  should 
meet,  you  will  find  him  a  sensible,  brave,  honest  fellow,  and  from 
what  I  have  said  to  him  you  may  depend  upon  his  inclinations  to 
be  attached  to  you.  He  has  schemes  for  purchasing  land  in  that 
country,  which  appeared  to  me  not  bad ;  by  way  of  embarking  a 
small  property  with  him,  he  undertook  to  purchase  a  thousand  acres 
for  me.  Be  so  good  as  to  enquire  a  little  into  this  matter  and  let 
me  know  your  opinion  about  it.  Your  advice  about  stocks  and  funds 
is  grave  and  pithy  ;  one  would  imagine  you  knew  the  step  of  a  lame 
duck  by  practice.  For  any  enterprizes  of  mine  you  may  be  perfectly 
easy.  Alas  !  now  I  am  talking  of  money  matters,  it  is  no  less  true 
than  sorrowful,  your  Bank-note  and  the  value  of  it  are  irrecoverable. 
About  a  month  ago  I  had  the  satisfaction  of  losing  a  note  for  ten 
pounds  in  much  the  same  way  and  with  the  same  success. — 
Intoxication ! 

The  family  of  the  Tenches1  I  take  for  granted  are  now  compleately 
happy.  If  the  father  has  any  of  that  Christian  patience  you  talk  of 
it  is  by  no  means  thrown  away  upon  him.  Your  letter  from  Ma- 
deira arrived  sometime  after  your  first  from  New  York.  Your  ac- 
count of  the  disputes  about  precedence  between  General  Gage 
and  Sir  Henry  Moore  is  perfectly  ridiculous.  Is  it  possible  for 
grave  men  to  fight  about  a  place  in  a  country  dance  ? 

I  understood  that  Foote  cleared  four  thousand  pounds  last  summer : 
an  immense  sum  for  a  man  with  one  leg. 

And  now,  my  dear  Mac.,  farewell !  My  hand  is  tired,  and  I  have 
said  my  say. 

Farewell !     Yours  most  faithfully, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

Another  letter  from  your  father. 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  April  26,  1768. 

Dear  Phil. — I  thank  you  for  the  account  of  W 's  trial.  We  had 

many  others ;  but  ail  of  them  confused,  perplexed,  or  partial.    Yet 
is  it  not  somewhat  whimsical  ?     He  is  arrested,  sent  to  prison,  yet 

lives,  we  are  told,  in  perfect  freedom  in  Surrey.     Are  W and 

Liberty  then  indeed  inseparable  ?  I  am  told  a  young  lady  here  dresses 


1  Francis's  American  relatives.    See  Pedigree. 
VOL.  I.  P 


210  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

her  hair  in  curls,  No.  45,  and  declares  for  a  husband  of  that  same 
number;  the  very  acme  of  love  as  well  as  politics.  Sir  B.  Black- 
more,  if  I  mistake  not,  made  it  the  sera  of  genius  and  epic  poetry. 
He  wrote  his  first  of  ten  epics  at  that  age. 

I  beg  you  will  read  the  enclosed,  and  if  you  can  find  the  person  to 
whom  I  would  direct  it,  if  I  knew  his  name,  pray  deliver  it  yourself. 
The  effects  of  his  soap  are  really  little  less  than  wonderful.  He  lives 
at  the  old  perfume  shop  opposite  to  Pall  Mall,  in  the  Haymarket. 

When  Lady  Stepney  leaves  the  house,  you  will  oblige  me  by  ad- 
vertising it.  The  woman  who  will  have  the  care  of  it,  and  who  now 
lives  in  it,  is  honest  and  intelligent,  or  iri  the  cant  word,  sensible  ; 
she  will  show  it,  and  agree  upon  terms  of  price,  and  necessaries,  &c. 
You  must  take  Lady  Downing's  reputation,  and  the  chastity  of  her 
street,  under  your  protection.  Farewell!  I  am  come  down  to  the 
bottom  of  my  paper. 

Francis  to  Macrabie. 

London,  May  14,  1768. 

My  dear  Friend  and  Brother,  — .  .  .  .  Mr.  Wilkes  has  been 
in  the  King's  Bench  Prison  this  fortnight,  and  must  remain  there 
till  next  term,  when  the  errors  of  his  outlawry  are  to  be  argued  again. 
His  friends,  to  the  number  of  many  thousands,  have  taken  possession 
of  St.  George's  Fields,  and  beleaguer  the  prison.  Many  lives  have 
been  lost,  yet  the  mischief  is  likely  to  continue  if  not  increase.  .  .  . 

You  may  say  what  you  please  of  your  Americans,  but  I'll  be  curst 
if  we  don't  match  you  for  riots.  The  worst  on't  is  that  they  keep 
me  at  the  War  Office  many  hours  a  day  more  than  I  like.  Such 
marching  and  counter-marching  !  The  Horse-Guards  had  no  con- 
ception of  such  hot  service.  Many  of  them  who  quitted  their  trades 
without  any  other  view  but  to  become  private  gentlemen,  complain 
loudly  that  the  contract  with  them  is  dissolved,  and  are  determined 
to  retire.  Mr.  Wade's  billiard  match,  on  which  other  people  have 
many  thousands,  and  I  have  ten,  pounds  l  depending,  is  to  be  played 
to-night.  My  reason  is  convinced  I  shall  win,  but  the  risk  of  such 
a  sum  is  enough  to  alarm  the  passions.  The  villain  is  brought  on 
purpose  from  Naples  to  give  Mr.  Wade  two  and  beat  him.  He  is 
not  half  so  like  a  man  as  a  monkey.  Foote  swears  he  remembers 
him  keeping  a  glass  shop  on  the  top  of  Mount  Vesuvius.  He  has 
had  a  particular  dress  made  for  him  to  play  in,  and  never  was  any- 
thing more  ridiculous  !  Having  no  more  nonsense  to  spare  at  present 
I  shall  conclude  in  sober  truth  and  sadness, 

Your  P.  FR. 


Compare  the  letter  of  Fiat  Justitia,  in  the  Junius  collection,  May  19,  1768. 


1768J  FRANCIS  AND  THE   '.ADVERTISER.'  211 

War  Office,  June  11,  1768. 

My  Dear  Mac. — This  letter  will  be  probably  a  short  one  for  a  very 
good  reason — because  I  have  not  materials  to  make  it  a  long  one,  for 
you  know  I  do  not  mind  trouble  ;  not  I.  A  letter  of  yours,  dated  in 
March,  is  arrived  since  I  wrote  last,  but  I  think  it  does  not  require 
any  particular  answer,  and  if  it  did — for  I  have  left  it  at  home. 

Domestic  news  is  as  insipid  as  usual.  Children  bawling,  servants 
fighting,  my  wife  scolding,  your  father  and  mother  weeping,  and 
Patty  raving  mad.  These,  with  the  addition  of  a  preternatural 
appearance,  and  some  unaccountable  noises  which  have  been 
repeatedly  in  my  house  in  Duke  Street  at  the  dead  of  night,  make  up 
the  perpetual  history  of  my  family.  Without  a  jest  I  have  myself 
heard  a  most  extraordinary  ringing  of  bells  about  midnight,  and 
have  never  been  able  to  discover  the  cause.  Now  for  news. 

Mr.  Wilkes's  outlawry  is  reversed  upon  an  error  pointed  out  by 
Lord  Mansfield  himself.  He  will  receive  sentence  this  term. 

Mr.  Rigby  is  appointed  sole  paymaster-general,  and  Mr.  Thomas 
Townshend  is  to  be  one  of  the  vice-treasurers  of  Ireland. 

Mr.  Cooke,  member  for  Middlesex,  is  dead,  and  Mr.  Serjeant  Glynn 
has  declared  himself  a  candidate.  It  is  supposed  he  will  succeed. 

I  am  going  to  dine  this  day  at 's  in  the  country  ;    he  has  taken 

an   elegant   house  in  the  country,  on  Barnes  Common,  a  carriage, 

and  a  w :  he  wants  nothing  now  but  a  pack  of  hounds  and  a 

couple  of  race-horses  to  furnish  his  character. 

Your  mother  is  at  her  house  ;  she  looks  better  than  ever,  I  think, 
but  has  no  hopes  of  seeing  her  dear  child  again. 

I  cannot  write  more,  but  you  may  depend  on  my  prayers. 

Yours  most  faithful, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

I  now  insert,  in  order  of  date,  a  very  important  memo- 
randum in  the  handwriting  of  Mr.  Parkes.  The  facts 
which  it  specifies  demonstrate  conclusively — were  any 
demonstration  needed — the  intimate  connexion  of  Philip 
Francis  at  this  period  (immediately  before  the  commence- 
ment of  the  Junius  letters)  with  the  '  Public  Advertiser.' 

Finding  in  a  folio  vol.  of  P.  Francis's  MSS.  a  long  paper  on  a 
suggestion  of  Financial  Reform,  unsigned  and  unaddressed,  and  in 
his  writing,  headed  'June  28,  1768,'  I  thought  it  possible  that  it 
might  on  that  day  have  been  communicated  to  and  published  in 
Woodfall's  '  Advertiser.'  I  this  day  examined  the  file  in  his 

p  2 


212  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

grandson's  possession  ;  and  I  find  the  paper  printed  in  that  journal, 
No.  10,503,  Tuesday,  June  28,  1768,  under  the  signature  of  A 
Friend  to  Public  Credit.  This  paper  must  have  reached  Woodfall 
not  later  than  Sunday  night,  as  in  the  Monday's  paper,  in  the 
notice  (the  only  one  that  day)  to  a  correspondent,  is  the  following : 
'  A  Friend  to  Public  Credit. — Address  to  the  proprietors  of  the 
Public  Fund  shall  have  a  place  in  our  next.' 


Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

August  3,  1768. 

Dear  Phil. — I  left  Bath  last  Wednesday,  and  am  afraid  I  forgot 
to  bid  Sally  send  you  your  letters.  I  mean  to  be  very  punctual 
in  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  Bills,  and  if  you  have  not  seen  Atty 
B — w  and  written  to  me  in  his  name,  I  beg  you  will  not,  till  I 
return  to  Bath. 

You  will  expect  some  little  account  of  Weymouth :  a  bay  with  one 
opening  to  the  ocean,  the  rest  surrounded  with  hills.  The  shore 
with  a  gentle  declivity,  falling  down  to  the  sea  with  a  smooth,  firm 
sand,  nor  rocks  nor  mud.  The  water  perfectly  clear,  and  the  bathing 
equally  good  at  any  hour  of  the  day.  The  temperature  of  our  cli- 
mate at  land  I  really  think  extraordinary :  vines,  myrtles,  flowers, 
jessamin,  in  every  little  garden,  within  fifty  yards  of  the  sea. 

Pray  write  to  me,  and  if  possible  contradict  that  unhappy  story 
of  Lady  Sarah.1  Accept  of  all  good  wishes  of  an  heart  sincerely  and 
affectionately  yours. 

Weymouth,  Wednesday,  for  verily  I  don't  know  the  day  of  the 
month. 

Francis  to  Macrabie. 

London,  August  3,  1768. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  have  got  some  letters  from  you  at  New 
York  dated  sometime  in  June.  I  did  not  doubt  that  you  would  be 
well  received,  and  hospitably  entertained  there.  I  have  a  letter 
from  Atchy  Thompson,  by  which  I  perceive  he  intends  leaving  that 
country  in  a  few  months,  and  that  he  has  made  a  tolerable  fortune 
there.  I  am  really  astonished  that  he  is  not  married. 

Rutherford  is  ruined  and  run  away,  but  then  the  king  of  Denmark 
is  just  coming  over.  You  shall  have  some  more  of  Harris's 


1  Lady  Sarah  Bunbury  probably.  She  had  been  instructed  in  early  life 
by  Dr.  Francis  (see  the  Fragment  of  Autobiography).  But  I  am  not  aware 
of  any  scandal  about  her  at  this  date. 


1706]        GRIEVANCE  OF  SIR  JEFFERY  AMHERST.  213 

writings  by  the  first  opportunity.  I  am  afraid  all  is  wrong  in  that 
quarter.  It  is  really  so  hot,  that  you  must  take  the  will  for  the 
deed.  Besides,  I  expect  to  send  you  a  monstrous  heap  of  letters 
from  Eden,  Kirkman,  and  your  father.  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's 
government  of  Virginia  has  been  taken  from  him  and  given  to 
Lord  Botetourt.1  The  former  is  so  highly  offended  that  he  has 
resigned  his  Regiments.  Now  this  you  see  is  American  news. 
I  can  tell  you,  moreover,  that  in  consequence  of  the  last  peaceable 
advices  from  Boston,  two  regiments  of  500  men  each  are  going 
there  in  a  hurry. 

My  wife  and  children  are  at  your  service,  and  so  your  most 
obedient  humble  servant, 

P.  FR. 

You  will  excuse  my  brevity  upon  the  principle  of  not  riding  a  free 
horse  to  death. 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  September  3,  1768. 

Dear  Phil. — When  I  used  to  read  pretty  books,  I  was  much  pleased 
with  the  hero  of  one  of  them,  who  had  laid  up  a  sum  of  money,  which 
he  called  the  Bank  of  Friendship.  He  lent  it  without  interest  to  his 
friends,  if  indeed  we  can  lend  money  to  a  friend  without  interest. 
Whether  you  have  such  a  bank  I  do  not  know,  but  I  was  at  an 
anchor  here  last  week,  and  bid  upon  the  credit  of  it  for  somewhat 
more  than  necessaries.  I  am  therefore  compelled  to  tell  you  I  shall 
be  much  obliged  to  you  for  a  thirty  pound  note  next  post.  Beside 
the  interest  of  friendship,  I  shall  with  pleasure  pay  any  expence  that 
attends  it,  when  either  my  spiritual  or  temporal  revenues  come  in. 

Why  don't  you  write  to  me  ?  "Pis  a  paltry  situation  to  know 
nothing  more,  and  in  such  times  as  these,  than  what  everybody  knows. 
I  had  a  long  letter  yesterday  from  Ingress  :  Amherst  and  America 
and  his  Majesty  of  Denmark — and,  of  more  importance  to  his 
happiness,  Mrs.  Bride  has  brought  him  another  son.  What's 
become  of  your  promise  of  a  boy  ?  Girls  are  only  the  mama's 
children,  and  I  want  some  assistance  in  my  plan  of  education. 
I  wish  you  would  translate  the  Proccenium  of  Quintilian's  sixth 


1  Compare  the  first  notice  of  this  fiercely  discussed  transaction  (the  dis- 
missal of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst)  in  the  Junius  letter  signed  L.  L.  ('  Miscell.' 
August  5,  1768.)  The  subject,  as  readers  of  Junius  are  aware,  occupies  a 
considerable  portion  of  the '  Miscellaneous  Letters,'  during  the  whole  autumn 
of  1768.  There  was  undoubtedly  some  private  reason  at  work  for  its  constant 
reproduction  in  the  '  Advertiser ; '  but  not  traceable  in  the  Francis  papers. 


214  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

book.  It  is  a  work  of  a  father's  heart.  However,  you  have  all  my 
wishes,  all  my  hopes,  for  that  alarming  terrible  hour,  whatever  it 
may  produce. 

Farewell ! 

Whose  is  that  famous  letter  to  L.  H — h,  signed  Lricius  p1 

On  September  3,  1768,  Mr.  Grenville  received  the 
second  letter  (which  he  endorsed  '  anonymous'),  headed 
in  the  '  Grenville  Papers,'  '  from  the  author  of  Junius.' 
It  is  at  all  events  evidently  from  '  C.' 

It  may  not  be  improper  (he  says)  you  should  know  the  public 
is  entirely  mistaken  with  respect  to  the  author  of  some  late 
publications  in  the  newspapers.  Be  assured  that  he  is  a  man  quite 

unknown  and  unconnected At  a  proper  time  he  will  solicit 

the  honour  of  being  known  to  you  ;  he  has  present  important 
reasons  for  wishing  to  be  concealed.  Some  late  papers,  in  which 
the  cause  of  this  country  and  the  defence  of  your  character  and 
measures  have  been  thought  not  ill  maintained ;  others  signed 
Lucius,  and  one  or  two  upon  the  new  Commission  of  Trade,  with  a 
multitude  of  others,  came  from  this  hand.  They  have  been  taken 
notice  of  by  the  public.  May  I  plead  it  as  a  merit  with  you,  Sir, 
that  no  motives  of  vanity  shall  ever  discover  the  author  of  this  letter  ? 
If  an  earnest  wish  to  serve  you  gives  me  any  claim,  let  me  entreat 
you  not  to  suffer  a  hint  of  this  communication  to  escape  you  to  any 
Imly.  ('  Grenville  Papers,'  iv.  355.) 

The  editor  of  the  '  Grenville  Papers '  observes  that  the 
last  two  words  were  underscored  in  the  original  MS., 
apparently  by  George  Grenville  himself,  indicating  his 
determination  to  keep  the  secret  thus  confided  to  him. 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  September  7,  1768. 

I  am  to  acknowledge  and  thank  you,  as  I  do  most  sincerely,  for 
your  twice  fifteen  pounds,  and  yet  more  for  the  strength  of  your 
bank,  though  I  shall  not  be  obliged  to  draw  on  it  again,  as  I  put  off 
the  evil  hour  of  borrowing  as  far  as  possible.  You  may  believe 
I  feel  your  punctuality  very  sensibly. 


1  Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  August  20,  1768.     (Letter  xxxv. 
Miscellaneous.) — Bohu's  '.Tunius,'  ii.  210. 


1768]  FRANCIS  AND   CALCRAFT.  215 

The  challenge  in  Lucius's  letter  is  probably  Lord  G.  S.  ;  his 
lordship  may  now  be  convinced.  He  won't  fight.  But  what  a 
poltroon  is  Lord  H.,  or  why  not  make  a  merit  of  avowing  that  he 
has  acted  as  he  thought  best  for  the  public  service.  But  is  he  less 
despicable  than  his  brother  ministers  ?  .  .  .  . 

Pray  when  you  go  again  to  Ingress,  read  my  letters  ;  they  are 
written  upon  my  first  thoughts,  and  will  require  much  attention  and 
correction.1 

The  personal  and  violent '  challenges '  of  Lucius  to  Lord 
Hillsborough  in  his  letters  of  August  29  and  September  1, 
are  so  numerous,  that  it  is  not  easy  to  see  to  what  exact 
expression  the  Doctor  refers.  It  would  seem,  however, 
that  for  some  reason  or  other — very  possibly  at  his  son's 
instigation — he  had  taken  up  for  the  moment  the  notion 
that  Lucius  was  Lord  George  Sackville. 

A  few  letters,  carefully  preserved  by  Philip  Francis  in 
his  manuscript  letter  book,  which  passed  between  Dr. 
Francis  and  Mr.  Calcraft  about  the  middle  of  this  year, 
may  be  adverted  to  in  this  place  as  showing  the  terms  of 
close  intimacy  which  existed  between  the  families. 
Whatever  the  Doctor's  freedom  of  private  life  may  have 
been,  and  whatever  association  may  have  existed  between 
him  and  Calcraft  in  the  days  when  George  Anne  Bellamy 
acted  as  presiding  lady  in  the  latter's  establishment, 

1  It  appears  therefore  that  Philip  Francis  was  by  this  time  an  habitual 
visitor  to  Calcraft  at  Ingress.  The  '  letters '  seem  to  have  been  papers 
written  by  Dr.  Francis  on  subjects  of  classical  inquiry.  One  passage  is  not 
without  its  personal  interest.  He  is  speaking  of  the  importance  of  instruction 
in  reading  aloud.  l  You  and  I  know  a  gentleman  '  (Mr.  Fox,  Lord  Holland), 
'whom  I  shall  always  love,  and  sincerely  wish  I  could  esteem.  This 
gentleman  at  four  years  old  could  read  (aloud,  he  means)  '  the  Bible :  the 
most  improper  book  for  that  purpose  ever  put  into  the  hands  of  children, 
and  from  whence,  perhaps,  he  is  at  this  moment  the  very  worst  reader  I 
ever  heard.  From  this  too  early  spirit  of  reading,  he  has  even  now  a  con- 
fused, hesitating,  and  yet  precipitate  utterance.  What  other  superiority, 
surely  not  of  political  knowledge  and  abilities,  had  his  great  rival  in  ambition 
(Mr.  Pitt)  over  him,  except  that  of  language,  words,  and  periods  ?  Yet  he 
really  talked  him  out  of  the  House  of  Commons.' 


216  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1768 

Francis  seems  to  have  been  a  true  friend  and  thoughtful 
adviser  to  Calcraft  in  the  matter  of  the  education  of  his 
young  son  John,  which  at  present  occupied  his  thoughts. 
Two  long  and  carefully  corrected  letters  on  this  subject 
(without  date,  but  of  this  time),  and  a  manuscript  essay, 
headed  'Dr.  Francis  to  John  Calcraft,'  have  been  pre- 
served by  Sir  Philip.  The  latter  seems  to  have  been 
intended  for  publication. 

Calcraft  appears  to  acknowledge  them  in  the  following 
(in  his  own  handwriting)  :— 

Ingress,  July  23,  1768. 

I  need  not  tell  you  how  heartily  we  rejoice  to  hear  of  your  safe 
arrival,  or  how  ardently  we  wish  you  health.  Besides  real  friend- 
ship and  affection,  in  all  probability  on  you  depends  the  welfare  and 
credit  of  our  darling  Jack.  He  has  from  his  first  speaking  been 
taught  to  drink  your  health  ;  and  shall  be  daily  kept  to  it 

Garrick  spent  a  chearfull  day  at  Ingress  last  week.  We  talk'd 
over  your  most  friendly  resolution  about  Jack.  I  will  not  attempt 
to  convey  his  applause.  But  my  boy  apart,  he  express'd  himself 
much  pleased  that  this  country  would  be  enriched  by  a  digested 
plan  of  education  from  you. 

The  next  (from  the  same)  shows  at  once  the  general 
coincidence  of  judgment  between  Calcraft  and  the  author 
of  Junius,  and  his  personal  friendship  for  Philip  Francis. 

Ingress,  October  20,  1768. 

You  cannot  conceive  the  satisfaction,  as  well  indeed  as  instruction, 
I  derive  from  the  perusal  of  your  treatise 

Read  a  letter  signed  Atticus  in  Wednesday's  '  Public  Advertiser,' 
and  differ  from  him  if  you  can.  (N.B.  the  letter  of  October  19.) 
A  general  and  prompt  attack  on  the  administration  :  '  Such  is  the 
council  by  which  the  best  of  sovereigns  is  advised,  and  the  greatest 
nation  on  earth  governed.' 

Our  friend  Phil,  would  send  you  an  account  of  the  masquerade, 
which  with  half  the  company  would  have  been  both  elegant  and 
clever.  He  enjoy'd  it  exceedingly  ;  and  will  you  believe  I  went  up 
to  it  with  much  pleasure 


1768]  BIRTH  OF  A  SON.  217 

To  return  to  the  regular  series  of  letters  : — 

Francis  to  Macrabie. 

London,  October  3,  1768. 
Informs  him  of  the  birth  of  his  son. 

I  am  now  to  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  August  17.  Pliny 
himself  could  not  write  better.  We  were  apprehensive  that  a 
pacquet  had  been  lost.  Your  account  of  the  Moravians  is  pleasant 
enough,  particularly  the  community  of  women.  In  that  article 
society  is  pretty  nearly  on  the  same  footing  here  !  I  have  sent  you 
two  more  letters  from  Harris  and  Coleman,  without  knowing 
whether  you  ever  received  the  first.  Rutherford  had  taken  some- 
thing so  much  amiss,  that  he  went  to  France  to  conceal  his  resent- 
ment. Since  that  he  has  sold  his  share  of  the  patent,  and  this  day 
gives  us  a  grand  dinner  at  the  new  tavern  in  Bishopsgate  Street.  This 
last,  I  take  it,  is  not  the  readiest  way  to  repair  his  fortune.  We  are 
all  raving  mad  about  the  king  of  Denmark's  masquerade,1  which  is 
to  be  given  next  Monday.  The  tickets  bear  a  higher  premium  than 
those  in  the  lottery.  I  have  got  one,  and  expect  two  more,  to  the 
grief  of  my  friends  and  the  astonishment  of  my  enemies. 

Your  acquaintance  here,  I  think,  are  all  in  statu  quo.  Mrs. 
Lessingham  being  hissed  at  her  first  appearance,  made  a  speech  to 
the  audience,  which  brought  them  all  over  to  her  side. 

Pray  keep  a  look-out  about  the  lands  :  though  may  I  be  eternally 
curst,  if  ever  I  cross  the  Atlantic,  at  least  at  my  own  expence. 

The  price  of  corn  is  greatly  fallen,  and  this,  I  think,  is  the  only 
good  public  intelligence  we  have.  As  to  the  rest,  the  stocks  go 
down,  and  nothing  is  expected  but  bloodshed  and  battery. 

All  this  I  have  written  before  breakfast.  My  appetites,  if  not  my 
passions  are  up  in  arms,  and  desire  their  compliments  to  you,  and 
so  farewell. 

P.  FR. 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  October  6,  1768. 

Will  one  letter  be  sufiicient  for  my  congratulations  upon  three 
such  happy  events — your  wife's  recovery  from  that  hour  of  terror ; 
your  own  from  a  very  alarming  disorder  ;  and  the  birth  of  your  son  ? 
You  are  now,  my  dear  Phil.,  beginning  to  be  a  father  with  other 
duties  and  affections  than  you  have  ever  yet  known.  A  mother 

1  See  Walpole  to  Lord  Stratford,  Oct.  10, 1768. 


218  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17G8 

dresses  her  girls,  and  makes  their  persons  fine,  a  science  which  she 
well  understands  ;  but  in  his  boys,  a  father's,  cares  are  employed  in 
forming  their  hearts  to  virtue,  to  sentiments  of  humanity,  and 
improving  their  minds  by  his  superior  knowledge  and  experience. 
Perhaps  the  papers  which  I  am  now  drawing  up  for  Mr.  Calcraft's 
boy  may  not  be  unuseful  to  yours. 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter.  Without  Mr.  D — y's  very  different 
stating  of  facts,  it  would  have  for  ever  damned  Sir  J.  Am — st.  I  do 
not,  however,  use  the  word  damned  in  our  horriblescriptural  meaning. 
In  the  sober — alas  !  too  sober — understanding  of  almost  threescore,  I 
envy  your  madness  of  masquerading.  But  with  all  your  titles  of 
Secretary  at  War,1  <fcc.,  have  you  not  a  right  to  a  ticket  ?  I  wish 
you  success  with  all  my  heart. 

Mr.  D— y  will,  I  think,  give  a  tolerable  account  of  me.  I  intro- 
duced Mr.  Wa —  to  him  yesterday,  as  your  acquaintance.  Fare- 
well! All  my  wishes. 

Sally  begs  of  me  to  send  her  congratulations  ;  I  dare  vouch  them 
very  sincere. 

On  this  last  letter  Mr.  Parkes  remarks  as  follows  : — 

In  September  1768,  Francis  was  in  ill  health,  and  being  much  at 
home  it  is  probable  that  he  had  more  leisure  to  compose  letters. 
And  accordingly,  between  August  29  and  September  20,  ten  miscel- 
laneous letters  are,  besides  their  internal  evidence,  probably  correctly 
assigned  to  him  by  Woodfall  and  Dr.  Good.  They  are  letters  under 
the  signatures  of  Lucius,  Cleophas,  and  L.  L. — one  unsigned.  The 
last  letter,  of  September  20,  is  signed  Lucius.  At  the  end  of  that 
month  his  illness  became  aggravated.  A  letter  from  his  father  at 
Bath,  of  October  6,  speaks  of  the  son  recovering  from  '  an  alarming 
disorder.'  Now  no  letter  is  further  ascribed  to  the  same  writer, 
between  September  20  and  October  6,  till  the  first  letter  in  the 
'  Public  Advertiser  '  of  the  latter  day.  The  signature  after  this  inter- 
regnum is  again  changed  for  that  of  Atticus.  It  is  singular  that  the 
disease  was  an  acute  inflammation  in  one  eye. 

To  Christopher  D'Oyly,  Esq.,  at  Bath. 

War  Office,  October  6,  1768. 
While  all  the  town  is  running  mad 
After  the  Danish  masquerade, 
And  every  shop  is  thronged  with  beaux 
Bespeaking  masks  and  dominos, 

1  See  the  end  of  the  next  chapter  for  observation  as  to  the  exact  nature  of 
Philip  Francis's  position  at  the  War  Office. 


1768]         THIRD  LETTER  TO    GEORGE  GRENVILLE.  219 

I  who  have  learnt  to  live  by  rule, 
And  am  too  old  to  play  the  fool, 
Think  I  pursue  a  nobler  end 
In  writing  to  an  absent  friend, 
Who,  I  am  sure,  will  laugh  with  me 
At  all  this  mimick  foolery. 

What  life  can  masquerade  afford 
Equal  to  health  and  strength  restored  ? 
Thy  waters,  Bath  !  of  power  divine, 
More  joys  dispense  than  Gallic  wine  ; 
How  much  in  virtue  they  excel — 
How  cheer  the  heart — let  D'Oyly  tell. 

Wisely  of  northern  blasts  afraid — 
Frequent  the  genial  South  Parade, 
Where,  sheltered  by  the  neighb'ring  hills, 
The  milder  air  a  softness  steals, 
And  borrowing  from  the  flower's  perfume, 
Gives  Chloe's  cheek  returning  bloom. 
Of  wholesome  viands  eat  your  fill, 
But  shun  the  shop  of  master  Gill : 
All  ills  are  there  in  ambush  laid, 
The  dev'l  dressed  in  masquerade — 
Soup  a  la  turtle,  cayann'd  high, 
Veal  a  la  daube,  and  rich  French  pye. 
Small  Lansdowne  mutton  I  should  chuse 
Before  kickshaws  and  French  ragouts. 

Take  this  advice  without  a  fee 
(A  thing  uncommon,  Sir,  with  me) — 
But  when  a  friend  is  in  the  case 
Custom  to  gratitude  gives  place. 

All  in  this  office  wish  you  well, 
But  none  more  truly  than  H.  L.1 

On  October  20,  1768,  was  written  the  third  and  most 
remarkable  anonymous  letter,  supposed  from  the  '  author 
of  Junius,'  to  George  Grenville.  It  encloses  one  of  Atticus 
extracted  from  the  '  Public  Advertiser.' 

The  town  is  curious  (says  the  writer)  to  know  the  author.  Every- 
body guesses,  some  are  quite  certain,  and  all  are  mistaken.  Some, 

1  I  have  not  been  able  to  trace  the  author  of  this  effusion  ;  doubtless  some 
comrade  of  D'Oyly  and  Francis  in  their  office ;  perhaps  Lewis,  at  this  time 
chief  clerk,  who  afterwards  succeeded  Francis. 


220  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1708 

who  bear  your  character,  give  it  to  the  Rockiughams  (a  policy  I 
do  not  understand)  :  and  Mr.  Bourke  1  denies  it  as  he  would  a  fact 
which  he  wished  to  have  believed.  It  may  be  proper  to  assure  you 

that  no  man  living  knows  or  even  suspects  the  author The 

'  Grand  Council '  was  mine,  and,  I  may  say  with  truth,  almost  every- 
thing that  for  two  years  past  has  attracted  the  attention  of  the 

public Until  you  are  minister  I  must  not  permit  myself  to 

think  of  the  honour  of  being  known  to  you.  When  that  happens, 
you  will  not  find  me  a  needy  or  a  troublesome  dependant.'  (Grenville 
Papers,  iv.  379.) 

•   Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  November  13,  1768. 

If  life,  my  dear  Phil.,  has  at  a  certain  period  very  little  desirable  in 
it,  I  really  think  our  frequently  meditating  upon  death  has  nothing 
terrible.  For  myself,  I  feel  not  the  terrors  of  religion,  and  reason 
has  none  for  me.  To  die  is  but  to  change  our  mode  of  existence, 
according  to  the  pleasure  of  the  only  good,  and  infinitely  good, 
Being.  This  world,  its  pleasures,  its  passions,  politics,  with  regard 
to  me  are  rapidly  passing  away ;  yet  I  am  not  grown  quite  indif- 
ferent to  the  fate  of  empires  and  kingdoms  —  of  America  or 
Corsica.  Why  then  never  once  mention  them  ?  But  the  man  to  whom 
I  am  indebted  for  all  your  happiness,  and  for  almost  all  I  myself 
enjoy,2  shall  he  have  a  contest  of  honour  or  of  interest,  and  can  I  be 
thought  insensible  and  unconcerned  in  it  ?  The  borough  of  Ware- 
ham — I  know  not  either  the  circumstances  or  the  event,  although 
I  have  applied  to  the  Father  of  the  H.  of  C.'s,  Lord  Bathurst,  and 


1  It  will  be  seen  from  various  passages  in  Francis's  domestic  correspon- 
dence that  he  was  for  some  reason  or  other  bent  on  ascribing  the  anonymous 
Advertiser  letters  to  Burke.     See  the  paper  by  Dr.  Francis  of  '  Remarks  on 
.Junius,'  in  the  Appendix.   The  editor  of  the  'Grenville  Papers  '  says  :  'This 
letter  is  written  upon  a  quarto  sheet  of  paper,  bearing  in  the  watermark  the 
maker's  name,  J.  Portal.     It  corresponds  so  precisely  in  this  respect,  as 
well  as  in  size,  quality,  and  gilt  edges,  that  it  may  have  formed  part  of  the 
same  quire  as  the  paper  upon  which  a  letter  from  Lord  Temple  to  Mr. 
Grenville  was  written  just  one  week  before.'   The  editor,  Mr.  W.  J.  Smith, 
as  is  well  known,  ascribed  the  authorship  of  Junius  to  Lord  Temple.     I 
have  not  found  any  observations  of  Mr.  Parkes  on  this  confidential  letter ; 
which    was  followed,  within  two    months,  by   the  very    complimentary 
anonymous  printed  letter  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  to  the  same  statesman. 
(Miscellaneous,  December  15, 1768.) 

2  Mr.  Calcraft.     He  had  lately  purchased  the  estates  of  the  Pitt  and  Drax 
families  at  Wareham,  giving  him  the  command  of  the  borough. 


1768]  DR.  FRANCIS  AT  BATH.  221 

a  very  able  member,  Sir  Wm.  Baker.     I  need  not  say,  I  do  most 
anxiously  wish  to  hear  from  you 

Bath,  November  24,  1768. 

I  do  not  often  believe  the  tales  of  Bath,  but  that  of  [cut  out]  was 
vouched  with  such  circumstances — a  division  in  the  House,  a  majority 
of  four,  but  in  whose  favour  they  could  not  tell.  Indeed  I  more  than 
believed  ;  I  was  heartily  alarmed. 

What !  a  young  man  of  your  prudence  never  make  his  will  untill 
he  was  startled  by  our  poor  Chitty's  death  ?  At  your  age  I  gene- 
rally made  my  will  every  day,  for  I  seldom  went  to  bed  with  a  guinea 
in  my  pocket.  Even  now  I  have  not  a  shilling  in  all  the  funds,  lot- 
teries, banks  of  England,  except  yours.  I  therefore  draw  upon  you 
for  twenty  pounds  till  my  spiritualities  arrive  at  Christmas  from 
Barrow.  It  would  not  be  difficult  to  get  it  here,  and  not  upon  un- 
reasonable terms,  but  for  the  awkwardness  of  confessing  our  wants  ; 
besides,  I  have  often  felt  a  pleasure  in  owing  an  obligation  to  one  I 
love. 

I  thank  you  for  my  books.  The  paper  book  is  really  so  rich  and 
so  fine,  that  I  have  not  the  heart  to  blot  it  with  my  scrawl.  The 
Ciceros — I  fear  I  am  almost  spoiled  for  a  Christian  divine,  and  here- 
after shall  never  addict  myself  to  any  but  heathen  lore.  Farewell ! 
Mrs.  Walsh  expects  you  at  Christmas,  and  you  may  depend  on  a 
party  of  everlasting  whist. 

Bath,  November  27,  1768. 

Thanks,  my  dear  Phil.,  a  thousand  thanks,  the  thanks  of  my  whole 
heart,  for  the  pleasure  with  which  I  read  your  letter.  What  a  spirit 
has  our  friend  '  C.'  I  have  been  always  of  opinion  that  few  things 
are  impossible,  but  he  has  absolutely  convinced  me  that  nothing  is 
impossible.  Surely  virtue  is  something  more  than  a  name.  If  at 
this  distance,  and  wholly  uninterested,  I  could  not  read  Sir  J.'N.'s 
glorious  contest  with  the  abject  L.  M.  without  a  kind  of  rapture, 
what  must  he  himself  feel  in  the  consciousness  of  having  done  his 
duty  with  a  spirit  worthy  of  all  praise,  infinitely  greater  than  that 
we  pay  to  all  human  abilities.  Let  me  read  it  again  and  I  will 
inclose  instantly,  believe  me,  without  shewing  it  even  to  L.  Ches — " 
tho'  I  confess  I  am  strongly  tempted. 

I  presume  when  you  come  to  Bath  you  will  eke  out  your  pious 
'  Deo  volente  '  with  the  classical  '  Fortuna  favente  '  of  Jack  Wade. 
Prithee  endeavour  to  see  him,  and  know  whether  I  may  expect  to  see 

1  Lord  Chesterfield.  One  of  his  letters  to  General  Irvine  is  dated  from 
Bath,  Nov.  27, 1768.  (Correspondence,  by  Lord  Mahon,  iv.  479.) 


222  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17(38 

him.  My  Genl.  Sandford,  too,  has  promised  me.  Then  will  we 
spend  our  merry  Xtmas  with — no,  not  with  all  the  religious  joy  of  the 
primitive  Xtians.  Farewell !  .  .  .  . 

Your  idea  of  brain  blow  and  the  regular  troops  in  H.  of  C.  pleases 
me  much.  Good  discipline  makes  good  soldiers.  Once  more,  fare- 
well! 

The  fact  of  Francis's  joining  his  father's  Christmas 
circle  at  Bath — and  the  kind  of  life  which  they  led  there 
— appear  from  the  following  letter  to  his  wife  : — 

Bath,  December  24,  1768. 

My  dearest  Bess, — A  round  of  cards  and  claret  has  almost  turned 
my  head  ;  but  I  will  not  deny  you  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  that 
I  am  as  well  as  a  man  can  be  who  sits  up  late  and  spends  his  time 
in  good  company. 

We  have  dined  twice  with  Mrs.  Chandler  ;  they  will  leave  Bath 
about  the  same  time  that  I  do.  I  am  vastly  obliged  to  you  for  your 
letter.  Pray  write  me  all  the  news,  about  my  children,  &c.  No- 
thing here  is  worth  speaking  of. 

Yours  I  am  and  hope  to  remain, 

P.  F. 


1769]  COMMENCEMENT  OF  JUNIUS.  223 


CHAPTER  VII. 

JUNIUS. 
[>ET.  29-32.] 

First  letter  of  the  Junius  collection,  Jan.  21, 1769 — Draper  Correspon- 
dence— Rosenhagen  and  Dr.  Johnson — Coincidence  of  subjects  between 
the  Junius  letters  and  Francis's  domestic  correspondence — The  Ad- 
dress to  the  King — Reports  of  Lord  Chatham's  speeches — Lord  North 
Premier — Absences  of  Francis  from  town  coincident  with  cessations  of 
Junius — Affair  of  the  Falkland  Islands — Charles  Fox  and  'Ulysses  '— 
Political  disappointment  of  Francis  and  Calcraft — Junius  and  Home 
— Imperfect  legal  knowledge  of  Junius — Conclusion  of  Junius,  1772 
Quarrel  with  Lord  Bariington — Francis  leaves  the  War  Office — His 
relations  with  Calcraft  at  this  time — Had  Junius  confederates  ? 

THE  new  year,  1769,  finds  Francis  returning  from  his 
Christmas  excursion  to  Bath.  In  the  next  letter  he 
announces  his  arrival  in  town  to  his  brother-in-law  : — 

War  Office,  January  4,  1769. 

My  dear  Mac. — After  all  seasonable  compliments  and  good  wishes 
on  my  part,  be  so  good  as  to  read  the  inclosed  history  from  your 
father.  The  good  man  writes  enough  for  your  whole  family,  and 
saves  my  conscience  a  world  of  scruples  about  the  shortness  of  my 
letters. 

I  am  just  returned  from  spending  a  riotous  fortnight  at  Bath. 
Gravier  and  two  otters  filled  a  post  coach,  which  was  dragged  with 
no  small  velocity  by  four  horses.  We  travelled  like  gentlemen,  and 
lived  like  rakes.  All  our  news  here  is  that  Wilkes  is  elected  Alder- 
man of  Farringdon  Without.  At  this  rate  I  see  no  reason  why  he 
may  not  be  Sheriff  and  Lord  Mayor  in  regular  succession  ;  and  why 
not  Prime  Minister  before  he  dies.  In  short  nothing  can  be  more 
ridiculous  than  every  thing  that  happens  about  this  gentleman. 
Every  attempt  that  has  been  made  to  injure  or  oppress  him,  has  in 
reality  done  him  service;  yet  after  all  I  apprehend  he  will  infallibly 
be  expelled  the  House  of  Commons.  The  election  for  Middlesex 


224  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1709 

has  raised  such  a  ferment,  that  even  America  has  been  laid  aside, 
and  Corsica  not  once  thought  of.  The  ministry  are  supposed  to  be 
in  a  strange  state  of  confusion,  and  many  changes  are  actually  talked 
of.  So  much  for  news  and  politics.  The  domestic  history  of  Duke 
Street  is  pretty  much  the  same  as  in  my  last.  My  son — that  is  your 
nephew  and  Gravier's  godson — thrives  admirably,  though  God  knows 
the  weather  is  bad  enough  to  kill  a  horse.  While  I  lived  at  Bath 
in  every  species  of  debauche  my  health  was  unimpaired,  but  the 
moment  I  return  to  this  cursed  regularity  of  drinking  nothing,  and 
going  to  bed  and  getting  up  early,  me  void  enrhume  comme  un  tigre. 
I  can  hardly  see,  breathe,  or  speak  ;  therefore  I  see  no  reason  why 
I  should  write  any  more. 

Sick  or  well,  drunk  or  sober, 

Yours  I  remain, 

P.  FB. 

On  January  21,  17G9,  appeared  the  letter  to  the 
printer  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  which  commences  the 
printed  series  of  the  letters  of  Junim.  It  contained  an 
attack  on  Lord  Granby,  which  brought  to  the  rescue  Sir 
William  Draper,  and  proved  the  commencement  of  a 
correspondence  which  attracted  a  great  deal  of  attention 
to  the  anonymous  writer  under  the  new  mask.  The 
following  memorandum  on  the  subject  of  Sir  W.  Draper's 
personal  history  was  composed  by  Mr.  Parkes.  That  Sir 
W.  Draper  was  a  personal  friend  of  Dr.  Francis,  as  a  fre- 
quenter of  Bath,  and  known  to  his  son,  at  the  time  when 
Junius  was  inflicting  on  him  his  severest  stabs,  is  clear 
enough  from  the  Doctor's  letters  which  follow.  But  we 
know  enough  by  this  time,  or  shall  know  hereafter,  of 
Francis,  to  be  aware  that  this  affords  no  reason  for  doubting 
the  authorship.  It  must  have  given  a  zest  to  the  occupa- 
tion of  attacking  Sir  W.  Draper,  that  Francis  was  able  to 
throw  out  mystifying  allusions,  such  as  must  have  tanta- 
lized the  knight  with  the  feeling  that  his  correspondent 
knew  him  well.  '  I  should  be  glad  to  know  where  you 
have  received  your  intelligence.  Was  it  in  the  rooms  at 
Bath,  or  in  your  retreat  at  Clifton  ? ' 


1779]  SIR   WILLIAM  DRAPER.  225 

'  Sir  William  Draper  was  an  Etonian,  and  of  King's  College,  Cam- 
bridge, and  entered  the  military  service  of  the  East  India  Company. 
In  1760,  he  was  given  the  rank  of  a  colonel  in  the  king's  army,  with 
Laurence  and  Clive,  and  in  that  year  returned  to  England.     In  1761, 
he  was  with  the  expedition  to  Belleisle,  and  was  promoted  to  the 
rank  of  brigadier.     In  1763,  he  sailed  with  Admiral  Cornish  from 
Madras  on  August  1  for  the  Bay  of  Manilla,  anchoring  before  the 
Fort  of  Manilla  on  September  27.     The  fort,  surprised,  surrendered 
on  October  6.     The  terms  of  surrender  comprised  an  article  by 
which  the  Spanish  possession  was  redeemed  from  plunder  of  the 
British  by  an  agreed  ransom  of  4,000,000  of  dollars — half  to  be  paid 
immediately,  and  the  other  half  at  an  agreed  time.     The  Spanish 
Government  of  the  island  drew  on  Madrid  for  the  first  half,  but  pay- 
ment was  repudiated  and  never  made.     The  British  ministry,  in  the 
premiership  of  Lord  Halifax,  meanly  brooked  this  breach  of  the  law 
of  nations,  and  never  coerced  payment.     Draper's  personal  share  of 
the   ransom,  as  commander-in-chief,  would   have  realised  to  him 
25,OOOZ. ;  his  officers  and  men  proportionately  sharing  in  the  prize 
money.     The  diplomatic  intercourse  between  the  creditor  and  the 
debtor,  the  governments  of  Great  Britain  and  Spain,  were  disgraceful 
to  the  repudiator.     Sir  William  Draper  published  an  answer  to  the 
arguments  of    Spain ;    and  during   successive   administrations   he 
pressed  on  his  own  government  the  duty   of  either  forcing   Spain 
to  respect  her  own  honour,  or  by  British  money  at  least  to  do  justice 
to  the  troops  employed  in  the  capture   of  Manilla.     Our  own  go- 
vernment was  deaf  to  the  demands  for  justice.    But  Sir  William 
Draper  received  the  knighthood  of  the  Bath,  and  the  colonelcy  of 
the  16th  Regiment  of  Infantry.    He  afterwards  resigned  his  colonelcy 
to  Colonel  Gisborne  for  the  consideration  of  his  half  pay  and  an 
Irish  annuity. 

'  Sir  William  Draper  on  his  first  controversy  with  Junius  was 
usually  resident  at  Clifton.  His  first  unprovoked  letter  to  Junius 
was  written  at  Clifton,  and  published  in  a  letter  to  the  printer  of 
the  "Public  Advertiser"  on  January  26,  1769.  His  last  letter  to 
Junius,  addressed  personally  to  the  latter,  bears  date  February  27  of 
the  same  year.  Junius,  in  his  letter  of  March  9  following,  had  the  last 
word,  so  far  as  regards  this  original  matter  of  controversy.  In  a  note 
by  Junius  to  his  own  authorised  and  corrected  edition  of  the  letters 
(Woodfall,  1772,  vol.  i.  p.  51),  he  asserts  that  Lord  Granby  desired 
Draper  to  desist  from  writing  in  his  lordship's  defence.  This  was 
probably  a  fact,  as  no  contradiction  was  given  by  Draper  to  the 
averment  of  Junius.  Here  their  original  controversy  first  ended, 
till  again  revived  by  Draper  on  September  14  following.  His  pro- 

VOL.    I.  Q 


226  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1769 

vocation  was  a  partial  republication  of  Junius's  letters  (of  those  then 
so  for  written),  which  Junius  in  his  reply  calls  "  a  catchpenny  pro- 
duction "  of  a  private  printer,  for  whose  publication  he  was  not  at 
all  responsible.  It  is  observable,  that  on  this  renewal  of  the  contro- 
versy Draper  confines  himself  exclusively  to  a  vindication  of  his 
own  personal  honour,  not  reviving  the  political  subjects  of  his 
original  attack  on  Junius.  To  this  attack  Junius  replied  on  Sep- 
tember 25,  a  rejoinder  of  Sir  William  Draper  appearing  on  Octo- 
ber 7.  Junius  again  had  the  last  word,  in  a  final  reply  of  the  date  of 
October  7,  therein  closing  all  direct  personal  controversy  with  Sir 
William  Draper.  A  week  previously  Sir  William  Draper  took  a 
passage  in  a  Bristol  merchantman  to  South  Carolina  and  sailed  for 
America.' — [J.  PARKES.] 

According  to  a  note  in  Bohn's  *  Junius'  (i.  116),  he 
arrived  at  Charlestown  in  January  1770,  and  married  his 
second  wife,  Miss  De  Lancey,  at  New  York.  This  lady 
died  in  1778.  Among  Sir  Philip  Francis's  miscellaneous 
papers  are  copies  by  himself  of  some  letters  of  a  melan- 
choly description  which  passed  in  that  year  between  Sir 
William  and  Maria  Hart,  an  actress  who  had  lived  with 
him,  and  who  solicited  pecuniary  assistance,  which  Draper 
laments  his  inability,  from  extreme  poverty,  to  afford  her. 
He  describes  his  situation  as  very  miserable.  Francis  ap- 
pears to  have  relieved  the  applicant.  Draper,  however, 
became  afterwards  Governor  of  Minorca,  and  died  in 
1787. 

The  curious  indication  of  the  position  of  Junius  as  a 
clerk  in  the  War  Office  (and  therefore  Francis)  afforded 
by  his  mistake  respecting  the  oath  attached  to  General 
Draper's  pension  has  been  the  subject  of  various  comments ; 
and  I  will  only  refer  to  it  here. 

The  story  told  in  Campbell's '  Life  of  Hugh  Boyd,'  that 
some  months  after  the  letters  of  Junius  were  published 
collectively,  Draper  said  to  Boyd  'that  though  Junius 
had  treated  him  with  extreme  severity,  he  now  looked 
upon  him  as  a  very  honest  fellow ;  that  he  freely  forgave 


1769]  SIR  WILLIAM   DRAPER.  227 

him  the  bitterness  of  his  censures,  and  that  there  was  no 
man  with  whom  he  would  more  gladly  drink  a  bottle  of 
old  Burgundy,'  seems  scarcely  credible,  or  confused  in 
point  of  date,  as  Draper  was  then  in  America.  But  it  is 
a  curious  circumstance  that  when  Francis  was  attacked, 
in  1787,  in  the  House  of  Commons,  for  having  allowed 
himself  to  be  included  in  the  list  of  managers  in  the 
impeachment  of  Hastings — his  personal  enemy — he  cited 
Sir  William  Draper  as  a  person  whom  he  had  consulted, 
and  who  approved  of  his  conduct.  '  The  honourable 
person,'  he  said, '  whom  I  consulted  is  no  more.  .  .  .  Those 
who  knew  Sir  William  Draper,  I  am  sure  will  acknowledge 
that  there  could  not  be  a  stricter  and  more  scrupulous 
judge  of  points  of  honour  than  he  was.' — Debate  of 
December  11,  1787. 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  January  28,  1769. 

Be  not  alarmed,  my  dear  Phil.,  when  I  confess  I  am  greatly  alarmed 
at  the  disorder  you  complain  of.  My  tears  are  perhaps  only  the 
feebleness  of  old  age,  and  the  natural  weakness  of  its  nerves.  You 
say,  your  old  disorder.  Sally  only  remembers  the  violence  of  your 
headaches,  for  which  Mr.  Adair  prescribed  bleeding.  This  may  be 
a  momentary  relief,  yet  ruinous  to  the  constitution ;  it  may  cure 
the  disorder  and  kill  the  patient.  A  self-physician  and  of  no  mean 
experience,  may  I  give  my  advice  ?  I  have  found  much  good  effect 
from  plunging  my  head  every  morning  into  a  large  bason  of  cold 
water.  It  is  a  partial  cold  bath,  applied  immediately  to  the  part 
affected.  However,  I  desire  you  write  of  no  more  Wilkes  and 
politics.  I  will  not  purchase  a  moment's  pleasure  in  knowing  our 
state  of  liberty,  by  your  suffering  an  hour's  pain  of  writing 
about  it. 

I  would  yesterday  have  acknowledged  your  Drummond's  bills, 
but  our  post  does  not  go  out  on  a  Friday.  You  need  not  send  me 
an  account  of  my  property,  as  you  call  it.  Only  keep  your  own 
side  of  it  right,  and  mine  cannot  be  wrong.  Give  all  my  love  to 
Mr.  Calcraft.  Tell  him  he  is  to  expect  a  very  spirited  and  exceeding 
honourable  defence  of  L.  G — y  against  the  virulent  Junius,  by 

our  friend  Sir  W.  D — r.     I  truly  honour  him  for  it 

Q2 


228  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1769 

I  really  pity  poor  Wilkes  : '  Die  then,  poor  suffering  wretch,  and  be 
at  peace.'  Our  ministry  have  made  him  considerable.  Persecution 
in  Politics  makes  Heroes,  as  in  Religion  it  makes  Martyrs.  Will 
they  banish  him  to  France,  a  Coriolanus  to  his  country ;  or  to 
America,  the  mischief  of  Enthusiasm  ?  Whimsical  religion — whim- 
sical politics 

I  am  with  all  affection  yours, 

P.  F. 

Bath,  January  5,  1769. 

Your  letters  of  last  week  did  not  require  an  immediate  answer, 
and  I  can  now  only  desire  you  to  accept  my  best  thanks,  and  particu- 
larly for  one  very  kind  offer  in  them.  With  regard  to  Mr.  Jennings, 
I  cannot  have  the  least  doubt ;  but  as  a  failure  in  the  time  of  pay- 
ment may  hereafter,  though  not  at  present,  be  a  little  inconvenient 
— however,  in  this  and  every  other  of  my  affairs  act  as  you  think 
fitting 

Pray  tell  Mr.  Calcraft  he  need  not  make  me  any  apology  for  not 
writing  to  me.  He  has  a  thousand  engagements.  I  have  only  one, 
probably  the  only  object  of  my  future  life,  but  I  am  so  entirely 
atque  omnis  in  hoc  sum,  that  I  hate  thinking  of  anything  else.  But 
in  truth  what  can  a  man,  tho'  somewhat  wiser  than  I  am,  think 
of  in  these  times  with  pleasure 

[Cut  out.1] 

illness  though  a  little  dangerous  that  hindered  his  going.  Then 
the  Norwich's  instructions,  the  '  N.  Briton,'  Moore's  Letter,  and  the 
very  injudicious  prosecution  of  Wilkes.  If  I  had  a  thousand 
pounds  a  year  in  our  best  terra  firma,  I  should  have  ten  thousand 
fears  that  the  next  political  torrent  would  wash  it  away.  But  you, 
and  I  wish  it  very  sincerely,  may  live  to  see  better  times. 

Farewell ! 

I  really  honour  Sir  W.  D — r.  I  know  the  motives  of  his 
writing.  Qui  non  defendit,  alio  culpante.  I  wish  his  letter  had 
been  shorter ;  perhaps  you  think  so  too  of  this  epistle. 

Bath,  February  11,  1769. 

Poor  Sir  William !  I  am  glad  he  is  gone  to  Clifton,  where  he 
may  eat  his  own  heart  in  peace.  So  sensible  to  friendship,  what 
must  he  suffer  in  his  feelings  for  his  own  Reputation  !  When 
he  repeated  to  me  some  passages  of  his  letter,  I  bid  him  prepare  his 
best  philosophy  for  an  Answer.  But  who  is  this  Devil  Junius,  or 

1  It  will  be  seen  that  this  and  subsequent  letters  to  his  son,  which  touch  on 
dangerous  ground,  have  been  carefully  mutilated,  no  doubt  by  the  receiver. 


1709]  FRANCIS  TO  MACRABIE.  229 

rather  Legion  of  Devils  ?  Is  it  not  B — k's  pen  dipp'd  in  the  Gall  of 
Sa— lie's  heart  ?  *  Poor  Sir  William  !  .  .  .  . 

I  this  moment  receiv'd  your  last.  It  is  reckoned  among  the 
arts  of  writing  to  leave  something  to  the  reader's  Imagination  or 
Understanding.  But  Figures,  I  find,  must  be  punctual  and  positive, 
and  express  whatever  they  know.  What  wonder,  when  we  reckon 
our  money  by  them  ?  But  I  really  did  not  know  either  the  real 
or  supposed  Number  of  Inhabitants  of  England.  However,  you 
perfectly  understood  the  question.  You  have  only  stated  it  better 
than  I  did.  If  the  gentleman  to  whom  I  have  given  so  much 
trouble,  should  ever  come  to  Bath,  I  desire  you  will  let  me  know  it, 
that  I  may  personally  thank  him.  In  the  meantime  all  my  compli- 
ments.2 .... 

Bath,  February  18,  1769. 

Dear  Phil. — I  send  you  the  enclosed,  not  to  save  my  general  the 
expence  of  postage,  but  because  you  are  a  little,  indeed  very  little 

concerned  in  it.  '  I  am  very  glad  Mr.  B thought  it  would  do 

honour  to  Mr.  B 's  abilities,  for  as  to  [cut  out]  what  may  he  not 

dare  ?  Does  not  he  know,  he  won't  fight  ?  How  do  I  already 
tremble  at  to-morrow  !  What  a  commission  for  my  weak  nerves 
and  shattered  understanding  !  But  good  night.  Thanks  for 
Stainforth. 

Francis  to  Macrabie. 

"War  Office,  April  5,  1769. 

My  dear  Brother, — Tour  friend  Mr.  Wharton  has  delivered  his 
credentials.  I  have  been,  and  shall  be,  as  civil  to  him  as  I  possibly 
can.  He  gives  me  such  an  account  of  you  as  is  enough  to  make  me 
love  the  man  without  farther  recommendations.  He  says  you  are 
better  received  than  any  young  man  that  ever  went  to  America,  and 
that  you  are  likely,  if  the  trade  be  not  quite  lost,  to  form  such  com- 
mercial connexions  as  you  may  improve  to  a  happy  establishment  at 
home.  I  wish  you  yourself  would  give  me  some  hints  of  this 
nature  to  keep  up  my  spirits. 

The  private  history  goes  on  as  usual.  My  wife  and  children 
except  Sally,  are  as  fat  as  you  could  wish.  My  son  is  the  finest  boy 

1  Dr.  Francis  was  so  much  interested  in  the  '  Draper '  correspondence, 
that  it  is  a  fair  conjecture  that  it  was  still  in  his  mind,  and  that  the  initial 
stands  for  Burke,  whom  he  certainly  at  times  suspected  of  being  Junius. 

2  Dr.  Francis  had,  as  we  have  seen,  the  same  habit  which  his  son  (and 
Junius)  retained,  but  which  was  very  common  among  writers  of  English  in 
this  time — that  of  a  profuse  use  of  capital  letters.     Having  indicated  this 
by  a  few  specimens,  it  is  not  proposed  to  continue  it,  as  this  antiquated 
practice  is  unpleasant  to  the  modern  reader's  eye. 


230  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17G9 

of  that  age  (viz.  six  months)  in  the  universe.  For  politics  and 
news  I  refer  you  to  the  enclosed  paper  :  it  is  a  curiosity  even  here, 
and  will  be  much  more  so  in  Philadelphia.  Your  friends  of  the 
crown  party  are  in  statu  quo.  Tell  me  something  about  lands. 

I  own  it  would  be  more  to  my  credit  to  be  able  to  fill  a  sheet  to 
you  once  a  month  than  write  in  the  manner  I  do  ;  but  I  think  my 
brains,  whenever  I  sit  down  to  write  a  letter,  are  addled ;  and  for 
the  life  of  me  I  cannot  get  one  step  farther,  so  I  remain, 

Yours,  P.  PR. 

Apropos,  I  condole  with  you  on  the  death  of  your  aunt.  One 
naturally  grieves  at  the  death  of  a  person  who  leaves  one  nothing 
to  rejoice  at.  This  has  been  always  my  case.  No  poor  devil  ever 
had  so  little  reason  to  rejoice  at  the  death  of  his  relations. 

London,  May  5,  1769. 

My  dear  Brother, — The  last  packet  brought  me  no  letter  from 
Philadelphia,  so  I  have  nothing  to  answer.  If  you  do  not  furnish 
me  with  materials,  the  stream  of  my  correspondence  will  flow  in  a 
narrow  channel.  We  have  politics  enough,  God  knows,  but  as  I 
have  not  the  honour  to  be  entrusted  with  the  secrets  of  either  party, 
I  can  give  you  nothing  but  what  you  will  see  much  more  elegantly 
set  forth  in  the  newspapers.  Truth  is  out  of  the  question.  Each 
party  says  and  believes  just  what  suits  themselves  without  decency 
or  moderation,  and  a  neutral  party  is  detested  by  both.  A  philoso- 
pher has  no  more  chance  among  them  than  a  cat  in  hell.  (I  wish, 
by  the  by,  that  the  person  who  stole  my  cat  were  in  the  warmest 
corner  the  devil  could  find  for  him.)  The  famous  Middlesex  petition 
was  intended  to  have  been  presented  to  the  King  this  day,  but  I 
hear  that  it  is  now  deferred  until  Tuesday  next.  The  same  day, 
the  counsel  on  behalf  of  the  freeholders  of  Middlesex,  who  presented 
a  petition  to  the  House  of  Commons  last  Saturday  against  Colonel 
Luttrell's  keeping  his  seat,  is  to  be  heard  at  the  bar  of  the  House. 

My  wife  and  children  are  in  a  flourishing  condition.  Your 
Quaker  and  Mr.  Cox  assure  me  that  if  the  American  trade  be  not 
quite  lost,  you  are  likely  to  form  connexions  in  that  way,  by  which 
you  may  establish  yourself  advantageously  at  home.  Comfort  me 
with  a  confirmation  of  this  intelligence 

Adieu,  my  dearest  friend !  P.  FR. 

is   lower   than  Tartarus.     Rosenhagen  is  become  a  great 

partisan  for  Wilkes,  and  in  a  short  time  will  probably  keep  him 
company. 

I  hate  faction  for  my  own  part  because  I  am  in  place. 

Yours,  yours. 


1769]  ROSENHAGEN  AND  DR.  JOHNSON.  231 

The  allusion  in  the  above  letter  to  the  '  Luttrell '  ques- 
tion, and  to  Eosenhagen  in  connection  with  it,  requires  a 
passing  notice.  Eosenhagen,  it  will  be  remembered,  has 
been  named  by  some  as  Junius  ;  an  impossible  supposition, 
as  he  was  out  of  England  during  part  of  the  time  of  its 
appearance  :  and  which  is  also  negatived  by  his  hand- 
writing, quite  different  from  that  both  of  Francis  and  of 
Junius.  The  Middlesex  election  controversy  occupied  the 
pen  of  Junius  during  great  part  of  1769.  And  it  drew 
into  the  field  Dr.  Johnson,  who  in  what  Boswell  calls  his 
'first  and  favourite  pamphlet,'  the  'False  Alarm,'  published 
early  in  1770,  took  the  side  of  Lord  North.  Surprise  has 
been  expressed  by  some  that  Junius,  so  fertile  in  retorts, 
never  published  any  reply  to  this  pamphlet,  and  it  has 
been  suggested  that  he  thought  his  secret  might  be  en- 
dangered, in  the  event  of  a  public  controversy  with  so 
well-known  an  opponent.  Mr.  Parkes  throws  some  light 
on  the  subject,  in  a  memorandum  which  I  subjoin  byway 
of  note.1 

1  Alinon  says,  in  his  edition  of  '  Junius,'  1806,  that  he  published  for 
Rosenhagen  a  pamphlet  in  answer  to  Dr.  Johnson's  'False  Alarm,'  the 
inferiority  of  which  brochure,  he  quaintly  says,  would  acquit  him  much 
better  of  the  imputation  of  the  Junius  authorship  '  than  any  reasoning  of 
mine  can.'  This  pamphlet  was  published  in  1770,  entitled  '  A  letter  to  Samuel 
Johnson,  LL.D.'  A  copy  is  bound  up  in  one  of  Francis's  volumes  of  tracts 
and  papers  relating  to  Junius.  It  does  not,  however,  merit  the  degree  of 
inferiority  Almon  awards  it.  Indeed  there  are  remarkable  passages  in  its 
fifty-four  octavo  pages,  such  as  render  it  probable,  in  the  force  and  satire,  to 
have  received  '  touches '  of  Junius.  Francis  was  the  most  intimate  friend  of 
Rosenhagen,  his  constant  convivial  companion.  It  is  unlikely  that  Rosen- 
hagen wrote  or  published  any  political  pamphlet  at  the  period  without  the 
knowledge  of  Francis.  It  is  not  unlikely  that  Francis  may  have  covertly 
encouraged  if  not  have  employed  Rosenhagen  to  reply  to  Johnson  in  aid  of 
Junius,  as  Junius  did  not  himself  reply  to  or  even  notice  Johnson's 
'False  Alarm.'  Francis's  own  copy  of  the  latter  anonymous  pamphlet 
is  inscribed  on  the  title  page  'by  Samuel  Johnson,'  therefore  it  must 
have  been  as  equally  well  known  to  Francis  as  to  Junius ;  and  Francis 
also  possessed  a  copy  of  Rosenhagen's  anonymous  reply.  It  has  been  well 
observed  that  probably  Junius,  though  replying,  in  the  letters  to  Draper, 


232  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1769 

On  May  30,  1769,  Junius  addresses  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton  in  a  long  and  libellous  letter,  of  which  the  following 
passages  are  worth  comparing  with  the  private  letter  to 
Macrabie  which  immediately  follows,  from  the  manner  in 
which  three  disconnected  subjects — happening  to  be  pre- 
sent at  once  to  the  writer's  mind — follow  each  other  : — 

If,  instead  of  disowning  Lord  Shelburne,  the  British  court  had 
interposed  with  dignity  and  firmness,  you  know,  my  lord,  that 
Corsica  would  not  have  been  invaded. 

I  am  not  versed  in  the  politics  of  the  north  :  but  this,  I  believe, 
is  certain,  that  half  the  money  you  have  distributed  to  carry  the 
expulsion  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  or  even  your  secretary's  share  in  the  last 
subscription,  would  have  kept  the  Turks  at  your  devotion. 

Marriage  is  the  point  on  which  every  rake  is  stationary  at  last. 
One  would  think  that  you  had  had  sufficient  experience  of  the  frailty 
of  nuptial  engagements,  or,  at  least,  that  such  a  friendship  as 
the  Duke  of  Bedford's  might  have  been  secured  to  you  by  the 
auspicious  marriage  of  your  late  duchess  with  his  nephew.  But  ties 
of  this  tender  nature  cannot  be  drawn  too  close. 


Home  Tooke,  Blackstone,  and  almost  all  his  avowed  opponents,  did  not 
answer  Johnson  ;  the  '  False  Alarm  '  being  anonymous,  and  Junius  fearing 
lest  by  a  direct  controversy  with  Johnson  he  might  afford  a  greater  chance 
of  his  own  identity  being  detected,  and  so  fall  into  a  ministerial  trap. 
Nevertheless  it  does  not  follow  that  Rosenhagen  ever  knew  that  Francis  was 
himself  Junius.  But  Almon  narrates  the  singular  circumstance  that  '  about  a 
twelvemonth  before  the  commencement  of  the  American  War  (when  Francis 
was  in  India),  Mr.  W.  G.  Hamilton  told  him  that  Rosenhagen  had  been 
endeavouring  to  make  Lord  North  believe  that  he  was  Junius,'  and  attempt- 
ing to  get  a  pension  from  the  Minister  on  an  undertaking  to  write  no  more. 
Almon  adds  :  '  I  gave  little  attention  to  the  story,  because  I  did  not  suppose 
that  any  one  who  knew  Mr.  Rosenhagen  would  suspect  him.'  (Almon's 
'  Junius,'  vol.  i.  p.  xvi.)  Long  afterwards  (as  appears  from  some  memo- 
randa of  Lady  Francis)  Rosenhagen  intimated  his  knowledge  or  suspicion 
of  the  real  authorship  of  Junius  so  as  to  disquiet  Francis. 

Francis  had  in  his  pamphlet  collections  the  first  and  second  editions  of 
the  '  False  Alarm,'  showing  his  interest  in  the  controversy  in  question. 
And  see  Johnson's  'Thoughts  on  the  late  Transactions  respecting  Falkland 
Islands,'  and  the  singular  stay  of  publication  of  the  first  edition  for  cancella- 
tion of  some  passages  reflecting  on  Lord  Rockingham. 


1769]  LETTERS  TO  MACRABIE.  233 

Francis  to  Macrdbie. 

War  Office,  June  7,  1769. 

Dear  Mac. —  ....  The  present  state  of  politics  stands  thus  :  the 
French  have  lately  received  a  severe  check  in  Corsica.  Nothing  they 
have  accomplished  yet  has  done  them,  any  honour.  Government 
assists  Paoli  underhand,  and  subscriptions  are  openly  advertised  for 
individuals  to  pay  in  their  contributions  to  the  cause  of  liberty. 

The  Turks  have  been  defeated  and  lost  a  place  of  some  impor- 
tance. It  is  thought  that  this  rupture  with  Russia  will  be  fatal  to 
the  Ottoman  empire.  Poland  is  ruined.  Denmark  is  armed,  and 
in  a  strong  state  of  defence.  The  King  of  Sweden  has  declared  his 
resolution  to  remain  quiet  and  take  no  turn  or  part  either  way. 

Lord  North  has  assured  the  House  of  Commons  that,  at  the 
opening  of  next  session,  there  is  a  resolution  to  accommodate 
matters  with  America,  to  the  satisfaction  of  all  parties.  No  bad 
news,  I  presume,  for  your  worship.  The  Duke  of  Grafton  is  shortly  to 
be  married  to  Miss  Wrottesley,  a  niece  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford.  This 
match  occasions  much  speculation,  as  it  threatens  a  close  union  of 
families,  consequently  a  coalition  of  political  strength. 

Wilkes  has  not  of  late  been  much  the  subject  of  conversation. 
The  supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Bights  seemed  to  separate  their 
interests  from  his,  and  I  believe  have  done  neither  him  nor 
themselves  any  good.  The  freeholders  of  Middlesex  have  presented 

their  petition  to  the  King  without  any  apparent  effect Vale  ! 

P.  FRANCIS. 
London,  July  5,  1769. 

Dear  Mac. — I  find  it  so  abominably  hot,  that  if  I  had  anything  to 
write  my  fingers  would  hardly  have  strength  to  perform  their 
.  office.  But  this  is  a  state  of  weather  which  we  have  no  great 
reason  to  complain  of.  If  it  had  but  fructifying  virtue  enough  to 
bring  my  son's  teeth  into  view,  I  should  not  care  if  all  the  hay  in 
England  were  reduced  to  tinder.  His  gums,  however,  perform  the 
office  of  teeth  to  a  miracle. 

News  since  my  last. — Messrs.  Townshend  and  Sawbridge  are 
elected  aldermen  and  sheriffs,  with  an  astonishing  unanimity. 

The  Lord  Mayor,  sheriffs,  and  three  City  members  are  this  day 
gone  up  with  the  City  petition  to  the  King.  The  county  of  Surrey 
have  also  voted  a  petition.  The  militia  of  Buckinghamshire  have 
refused  to  be  embodied,  and  I  hear  this  spirit  prevails  in  other 
counties.  Paoli  escaped  in  an  English  vessel  to  Leghorn.  The 
news  from  America  make  things  worse  and  worse.  Those  from  the 
East  Indies  rather  better.  I  have  just  heard  that  when  the  Lord 


234  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1709 

Mayor  presented  the  petition,  lie  said,  '  Sir,  this  is  a  petition  from 
your  Majesty's  City  of  London,  complaining  of  grievances  which 
we  humbly  hope  your  Majesty  will  redress.'  The  King  received  it 
with  indifference,  gave  it  to  one  of  the  lords  of  the  bedchamber,  and 
passed  on  without  speaking.  Alderman  Beckford  then  pulled  the 
Lord  Mayor  by  the  sleeve  to  draw  him  away. 

Be  cautious  how  you  quote  me  for  any  political  intelligence.  We 
are  assured  that  Lord  Chatham  is  to  be  at  the  levee  on  Friday. 

I  am  going  for  a  week  to  Tunbridge  Wells.  Give  my  respects  to 
all  my  relations  of  all  sexes,  colours,  and  conditions. 

Yours  most  faithfully, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

The  Duke  of  Grafton  is  absolutely  married,  and  last  Saturday 
chosen  Chancellor  of  Cambridge. 

Six  days  afterwards  Junius  adverts  in  his  sarcastic  way 
to  the  Duke's  nomination  to  the  same  office.  '  July  8, 
1769. — You  will  have  reason  to  be  thankful  if  you  are 
permitted  to  retire  to  that  seat  of  learning  which,  in 
contemplation  of  the  system  of  your  life,  the  comparative 
purity  of  your  manners  with  those  of  your  high  steward, 
and  a  thousand  other  recommending  circumstances,  has 
chosen  you  to  encourage  the  growing  virtue  of  their 
youth,  and  to  preside  over  their  education.' 

London,  August  2,  1769. 

My  dear  Mac. — Your  letters  are  always  very  copious,  and  very 
entertaining,  but  the  matter  of  them  seldom  requires  an  answer  ;  so  • 
I  leave  them  at  home  when  I  write  at  the  War  Office,  and  answer 
you  as  it  happens. 

I  see  plainly  that  one  of  my  letters  to  you  has  miscarried,  in  which 
I  told  you  that  both  our  tickets  were  returned  blanks.  Fortune 
would  not  even  trust  us  with  twenty  pounds.  This  miscarriage  of 
my  letter  vexes  me,  for  I  fear  it  has  fallen  into  the  hands  of  the 
Philistines,  and  what  more  was  in  it  God  knows.  I  suspect  the 
misfortune  happened  while  General  Gage  was  at  Boston 

Your  sister  is  tormented  with  the  cramp,  and  your  humble  servant 
has  actually  the  rheumatism  in  his  left  shoulder.  Last  night  I  had 
it  on  the  other  side.  The  change  is  pleasing  enough.  You  are  not 
my  friend,  if  you  do  not  hear  with  more  than  ordinary  pleasure  that 
Mr.  Peter  Godfrey,  who  died  about  three  weeks  ago,  has  left  our 


1769]  PRIVATE  LETTERS.  235 

honest  Grravier  a  fortune  in  money  and  land  equal  to  more  than 
50,OOOL  Yet  this  gentleman  was  not  his  patron.  His  expectations 
were  always  founded  upon  Mr.  Thomas  Godfrey,  who  is  still  alive, 
and  who,  I  doubt  not,  will  leave  him  the  bulk  of  his  fortune. 
N.B.  The  said  Thomas  is  seventy-six,  and  has  kept  his  room 
eighteen  months.  Is  not  this  a  glorious  situation  ?  He  has  no 
enemies,  and  his  friends  are  forced  to  confess  he  deserves  it  all. 


Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

Bath,  August  8,  1769. 

Dear  Phil. — Instead  of  my  jaunt  to  Plymouth,  I  have  been  once 
more  near  the  country  from  whose  bourne,  &c.  ;  however,  at  present 
I  have  put  off  the  great  journey,  perhaps  for — a  few  months.  But 
since  it  is  an  impious  violation  of  forms  to  laugh  at  the  solemnity  of 
dying,  I  do  seriously  assure  you  I  had  been  so  much  out  of  order 
for  some  days  before  I  received  your  dreadful  account  of  my  long- 
beloved  Wade,  that  it  wholly  overwhelmed  me.  I  was  wakened  out 
of  the  arms  of  death  by  shrieks  of  Oh  !  he  is  dead — he  is  dead  !  But 
the  dismal  alternative  either  of  infamy  or  ruin !  Is  there  no 
medium  ?  Can  a  father,  can  an  husband,  ought  he— I  mean  has  he  a 
right — to  give  away  the  property  and  welfare  of  his  wife  and  children 
— but  for  what  ?  For  the  reputation  of  being  a  man  of  honour — 
visionary  nonsense  !  N\D,  not  for  the  united  opinions,  were  it  possible, 
of  all  human  kind.  A  married  man,  says.  Bacon,  has  given  hostages 
to  fortune.  He  must  play  the  knave  and  the  fool  with  discretion. 

To  convince  you  I  mean  to  live  a  little  longer,  I  hope  you  have 
received  Mr.  Jennings'  moneys,  and  beg  you  will  send  me  20Z.,  for 
such  is  this  whimsical  world,  we  can  neither  come  into  it,  live  a  few 
paltry  years  in  it,  or  go  out  of  it,  without  paying  the  fees  of  both 
life  and  death.  What  a  prater  ! 

Farewell !     With  all  affection  yours, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

Send  me  some  better  news,  if  possible,  of  Mr.  Wade,1  but  however 
I  do  most  earnestly  beseech  you  send  me  the  very  worst. 

On  August  16, 1769,  Junius  writes  to  Woodfall  (private, 
No.  7),  '  I  have  been  some  days  in  the  country.'  There 
is  a  cessation  about  this  time  of  Francis's  family  corre- 
spondence. 

The  next  letter  to  Macrabie  announces  the  arrival  of 

1  I  have  not  discovered  the  occurrences  to  which  this  letter  alludes. 


2:36  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1769 

Francis's  cousin,   young  Kichard  Tilghman   or   Tilman, 
from  Philadelphia :  he  came  to  study  law  in  England. 

London,  September  6,  1769. 

My  dear  Friend, — Mr.  Tilman  seems  to  be  a  good  humoured,  in- 
telligent young  man.  He  will  not,  I  believe,  complain  of  my  recep- 
tion of  him 

The  Duke  of  Bedford  just  beaten,  in  a  most  shameful  manner, 
out  of  his  head  quarters  at  Bedford.  The  whole  corporation  seem 
to  have  set  him  at  defiance,  and  never  was  there  a  more  disgraceful 
defeat. 

On  September  19,  1769,  Junius,  addressing  the  Duke  of 
Bedford  as  *  the  little  tyrant  of  a  little  corporation,'  adds, 
in  a  note  of  his  own,  '  Of  Bedford,  where  the  tyrant  was 
held  in  such  contempt  and  detestation,  that  in  order  to 
deliver  themselves  from  him,  they  admitted  a  great 
number  of  strangers  to  the  freedom.'  (Bonn's  '  Junius,' 
i.  213.) 

In  a k  private  letter,'  No.  11,  November  8, 1769,  Junius 
informs  Mr.  Woodfall,  '  I  have  been  out  of  town  for  three 
weeks.'  A  corresponding  gap  occurs  in  the  manuscript 
correspondence  before  me.  On  November  4,  1769, 
Francis  writes  to  Macrabie,  to  inform  him  of  his  ill 
success  in  respect  of  certain  lottery  tickets.  The  next,  to 
the  same  (December  6),  proceeds  as  follows  : — 

London,  December  6,  1769. 

Dear  Mac. — I  told  you  in  my  last  that  I  had  bought  you  a  ticket, 
No.  47,170.  I  am  afraid  you  will  be  more  disappointed  than  I  was, 
when  you  hear  that  it  is  come  up  a  blank.  My  son  had  a  ticket, 
which  has  met  with  the  same  fate.  But  he  himself  is  a  prize,  and 
as  to  the  lottery  I  expect  no  better.  Our  political  affairs  stand 
pretty  much  as  per  last.  Petitions  gain  ground  in  all  quarters — but 
still  I  think  the  Ministry  stand  their  ground,  and  seem  determined 
to  meet  the  present  parliament.  They  have  received  a  signal  blow 
in  Ireland,  and  how  they  will  proceed  is  more  than  I  can  compre- 
hend. The  House  of  Commons  there  have  thrown  out  the  Money 
Bill,  which  I  take  to  be  the  same  thing  as  refusing  the  supplies, 
and  I  now  hear  they  are  prorogued.  They  have  also  very  near 


1770]  ADDRESS  TO  THE  KING.  237 

brought  Sir  George  Macartney,  the  State  Secretary,  on  his  knees  at 
the  bar 

Within  a  few  days  of  this  letter  (December  19,  1769) 
followed  the  most  daring,  and  most  famous,  of  all  the 
productions  of  Junius — '  The  Address  to  the  King.'  The 
'  blow  in  Ireland '  seems  to  be  connected  with  these  marks 
of  contempt  for  '  the  miserable  governor  you  have  sent 
them '  (Lord  Townsend),  of  which  the  address  speaks. 
Horace  Walpole,  for  some  reason  or  other,  imagined  that 
there  were  different  writers  employed  in  the  concoction 
of  this  famous  letter  ('  Eeign  of  George  IV.'  Hi.  401,  edition 
1845) ;  but  Gerald  Hamilton,  he  says,  was  most  generally 
suspected.  This  formidable  eruption  was  followed  by  the 
break-up  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  ministry  ;  and  on  the 
part  of  Junius  by  an  interval  of  repose.  No  Junius  letter 
appeared  until  February  14,  1770,  no  'miscellaneous' 
between  December  2,  1769,  and  March  5,  1770  ;  while 
the  two  or  three '  private  to  Woodfall '  relate  to  the  '  infor- 
mation '  brought  against  the  printers  for  publishing  the 
fc  Address  '  in  question.  Francis  keeps  very  clear  of  the 
subject  in  his  few  private  letters  of  this  interval ;  but 
seems  alarmed,  and  '  wishes  we  were  all  quiet.' l 

London,  January  13,  1770. 

My  dear  Brother, — Notwithstanding  I  am  at  this  moment  over- 
whelmed with  a  torrent  of  all  manner  of  business,  and  all  the  plagues 
of  Egypt,  I  cannot  let  a  packet  go  without  a  few  lines.  We  are 
all  in  the  strangest  political  confusion  that  I  believe  this  country 
ever  experienced.  Lord  Chatham  has  declared  himself  in  the  most 
decisive  manner  against  the  proceedings  of  the  House  of  Commons. 
The  Chancellor  the  same ;  for  which  he  is  turned  out,  but  nobody 
yet  in  his  place.  The  Commander- in- Chief  the  same,  and  it  is  sup- 


1  It  may  interest  modern  clients  to  know  that  Woodfall's  costs  in  the 
matter  of  the  Information — which  established  the  freedom  of  journalism — 
amounted  to  £111  16s.  9d.,  as  appears  by  his  papers.  '  Tantae  molis  erat 
Bomauam  condere  gentem.' 


238  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

posed  he  will  be  out  in  a  few  days.  Sir  George  Saville,  Bourke,  and 
others,  doing  everything  they  can  to  be  sent  to  the  Tower.  All  this 
curious  enough.  I  wish  we  were  all  quiet.  These  times  will  only 
answer  for  people  who  have  nothing  to  lose. 

Lord  Huntingdon  turned  out  from  Groom  of  the  Stole.  Duke  of 
Manchester  resigned.  Duke  of  Northumberland  in  the  minority. 

What  was  the  *  torrent  of  all  manner  of  business  '  which 
set  in  at  this  period  on  Francis,  his  papers  do  not  disclose : 
but  it  is  coincident  with  the  already  noticed  unusually 
long  cessation  of  letters  from  Junius  ;  with  the  absorbing 
character  of  the  interest  which  he  must  have  taken  in  the 
trial  of  the  cases  against  Woodfall,  Almon,  and  Miller, 
which  ended  in  his  signal  triumph  over  Lord  Mansfield ; l 
and  witli  the  circumstance  of  his  having  just  at  this  time 
executed  that  remarkable  series  of  reports  of  the  debate  of 
January  9, 1770,  on  the  Address,  which  was  published  by 
Almon  in  1792,  from  a  report  furnished  by  Francis  himself: 
and  by  Francis  revised  and  corrected,  in  1813,  for  the  Par- 
liamentary History.  ('  Chatham  Correspondence,'  vol.  iii.) 
The  obligations  of  the  editor  of  that  volume  of  the  History 
to  him  as  '  a  gentleman  who  afterwards  made  a  distin- 
guished figure  in  the  House  of  Commons,'  are  repeatedly 
acknowledged.  And  in  one  of  Sir  Philip's  folio  letter- 
books  are  his  own  copies — both  rough  and  corrected — of 
this  and  other  reports  which  he  had  taken  in  the  House 
of  Lords  in  the  debates  of  this  session — from  memory,  I 
presume,  as  no  regular  reporting  was  then  allowed. 
These  MS.  reports  vary  in  some  material  particulars  from 
those  in  the  Parliamentary  History ;  and  they  leave  some 
doubt  on  the  mind  how  much  of  the  recorded  eloquence 
of  Chatham  may  in  reality  be  the  produce  of  the  pen  of 

1  'Junius,  from  the  acquittal  of  the  printers  till  the  beginning  of  1772, 
when  he  made  a  treaty  with  the  Government  and  for  ever  disappeared, 
exercised  a  tyranny  of  which  we  can  form  little  conception,  living  in  an  age 
when  the  press  is  more  decorous,  and  we  are  able  by  law  to  restrain  its 
excesses.' — (Lord  Campbell's  Life  of  Lord  Mansfield.) 


1770]        REPORTS  OF  LORD  CHATHAM'S  SPEECHES.          239 

his  able  amanuensis ;  how  far  Francis,  as  he  once  half 
seriously  asserted,  'made'  Lord  Chatham's  speeches.1 
But  I  cannot  within  my  present  space  carry  this  inves- 
tigation farther.  The  circumstance  that  Francis  was 
constantly  taking  Parliamentary  reports  between  1768 
and  1772,  and  that  Junius,  on  his  own  showing,  was  a 
constant  frequenter  of  the  two  Houses  during  the  same 
periods,  has  often  been  insisted  on  as  an  indication  of 
identity,  and  need  not  be  further  dwelt  on. 

War  Office,  February  7,  1770. 

My  Dear  Mac. — I  wish.  with,  all  my  heart  that  I  had  time  to  do 
justice  and  pay  you  an  equivalent  for  the  kindness,  and,  let  me  say 
with  gratitude,  for  the  length  of  your  letters.  I  have  received  those 
of  the  2nd  and  13th  December.  If  I  waited  until  I  had  time  to 
answer  them  as  I  ought  to  do,  I  believe  you  would  never  hear  from 
me  again.  The  present  condition  of  politics  is  enough  to  agitate  the 
mind  of  a  calmer  person  than  I  am,  and  with  official  business  I 
promise  you  I  am  almost  overwhelmed.  The  Duke  of  Graftoii's 
resignation  has  left  the  administration  in  the  hands  of  the  Duke  of 
Bedford's  friends,  who  seem  determined  to  hold  fast  as  long  as  their 
employments  are  tenable.  The  opposition  is  truly  formidable, 
and  increases  every  day.  On  Monday  last,  two  most  vehement 
protests  against  the  proceedings  of  the  majority  were  signed 
by  forty-one  lords,  a  greater  number,  I  believe,  than  ever  signed 
a  protest  before.  By  the  next  packet,  you  may  be  pretty  sure 
that  things  will  be  brought  to  a  consistence,  and  we  shall  all  know 
what  to  trust  to. 

Give  my  love  to  Colonel  Francis,  and  bid  him  take  care  of  my 
acres.     I  am,  sincerely  speaking,  hurried  to  death. 
Adieu  my  dear  friend  ! 

Tours  most  faithfully, 

P.FR. 

I  was  just  going  to  seal  this  letter,  when  I  received  yours  of  the 
2nd  of  January.  A  thousand  thanks  to  my  poor  cousin,  and  all  my 
good  wishes.  Tell  him  if  he  will  send  an  exact  description  of  the 


See  a  specimen  of  his  reporting  in  the  Appendix. 


240  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

lands,  I  believe  I  could  get  the  grant  for  nothing.      I  depend  upon 
his  skill  in  the  choice.     It  is  really  impossible  to  say  any  more. 

Don't  let  it  be  confined  to  a  thousand  acres  if  more  good  land 
can  be  had. 

In  the  next  Junius  (February  14,  1770),  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  is  accordingly  insulted  on  his  resignation  and 
desertion  of  his  sovereign,  '  in  the  midst  of  that  distress 
in  which  you  and  your  new  friends '  (the  Bedford  party) 
4  have  involved  him.  .  .  .  Without  immediately  appearing 
to  govern,  they  possess  the  power  and  distribute  the  emo- 
luments of  government  as  they  think  proper.  One  might 
think,  my  lord,'  he  adds,  'you  might  have  taken  this 
spirited  resolution  (to  resign)  before  you  had  obliged 
Lord  Granby  to  quit  a  service  he  was  attached  to — before 
you  had  discarded  one  chancellor  and  killed  another.' 
The  editor  of  Bohn's  *  Junius '  adds  in  a  note :  '  As  well  as 
the  Marquis  of  Granby,  the  Dukes  of  Beaufort  and  Man- 
chester, Lord  Coventry,  and  Mr.  Dunning  the  Solicitor- 
General  resigned ;  they  expected  by  early  resignation  to 
be  included  in  the  new  ministry  of  the  Earl  of  Chatham 
and  Lord  Eockingham ;  but  the  appointment  of  Lord 
North  to  be  Premier  disappointed  all  the  expectants, 
Junius  among  them.'  The  eager  manner  in  which 
Calcraft  watched  the  turn  of  the  tide  is  evident  from  his 
letters  at  this  period  to  Lord  Chatham.  ('  Chatham  Corre- 
spondence,' vol.  iii. )  That  Francis  in  this  crisis  was  con- 
stantly at  Calcraft's  back,  and  aiding  to  the  best  of  his 
ability  in  purveying  political  information  for  Calcraft,  to 
be  conveyed  by  him  to  Chatham,  is  plain  from  several 
passages  in  that  correspondence  (see  pp.  430,  444). 

Francis  to  Macrabie. 

London,  March,  16  1770. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  take  advantage  of  an  opportunity  offered  me 
by  our  friend  Tilghmann,  to  send  you  a  few  newspapers  and  let  you 


1770]  CITY  POLITICS.  241 

know  that  we  are  still  alive  and  merry.     The   House  of  Commons 
voted  yesterday  to  address  the  King  for  a  copy  of  the  City  Remon- 
strance on  his  Majesty's  answer.    It  was  carried  by  271  against  108. 
The  Lord  Mayor,  Alderman  Trevethick,  and  the  two  sheriffs  avowed 

and  supported  the  Remonstrance 

[Two  lines  and  signature  cut  out.] 

Two  pages  of  the  next  letter  (March  18)  are  cut  out. 
See  Junius  of  the  same  day.  It  appears  by  the  portions 
of  words  remaining,  to  have  been  all  about  City  politics. 
The  P.S.  says,  in  reference  to  his  having  dined  at  the  St. 
Patrick's  dinner  the  day  before,  '  These  Americans  drink 
like  whales.' 

London,  April  4,  1770. 

My  dear  Mac. — We  have  a  packet  from  New  York  with  letters  of 
the  21st  and  22nd  of  February,  but  no  advices  from  Philadelphia. 
You  are  so  punctual  a  man,  that  when  you  fail  to  write,  your  friends 
are  uneasy.  I  say  this  rather  for  the  old  people  than  myself.  I  am 
no  way  given  either  to  ceremony  or  idle  apprehensions. 

The  enclosed  newspapers  will  give  you  some  idea  of  our  present 
state  of  politics.  The  most  material  event  since  my  last,  is  that  Mr. 
Grenville's  bill  for  regulating  the  mode  of  deciding  contested 
elections  has  passed  the  House  of  Commons.  They  will  now  be 
determined  by  thirteen  persons  chosen  by  ballot,  and  sworn  like  a 
jury.  This  is  supposed  to  be  a  great  point  gained  against  bribery 
and  corruption,  and  mortification  to  the  Ministry,  who  one  night 
divided  against  it  to  no  purpose.  Au  reste,  they  stand  their  ground, 
and  the  King  seems  determined  to  support  them. 

You  have  now  got  a  Wilkes  of  your  own  at  New  York,  so  I  sup- 
pose your  zeal  for  our  poor  patriot  will  decline.  He  comes  out  (of 
custody)  on  the  18th  instant,  but  in  my  own  opinion  it  makes  no 
difference  to  anybody  but  himself. 

My  wife  and  children  are  pretty  well.  Your  nephew  promises  to 
be  a  hero  in  the  demolition  of  gingerbread. 

I  am  going  to-night  to  sup  at  Tilman's  chambers.  He  leads  a 
pleasant  sort  of  life,  and  studies  the  law  like  a  dragon.  His  prin- 
ciples are  truly  patriotic,  especially  when  in  liquor. 

I  protest  I  have  nothing  more  to  say ;  but  be  so  honest  as  to 
observe  that  I  have  written  twice  by  a  private  ship,  since  the  last 
packet. 

And  so  farewell ! 

P.  FRANCIS. 

VOL.  I.  K 


242  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

From  April  3  to  May  28,  1770,  no  letter  from  Junius 
appears  in  the  collection,  or  in  the  *  private '  series.  The 
Junius  of  May  28,  is  dated  of  a  day  on  which  Francis  was 
not  in  town.  This  appears  clearly  from  the  following 
letter  to  his  wife.  Possessed  as  we  are  of  a  tolerably  ac- 
curate index  of  all  Francis's  movements,  this  is  the 
only  instance  of  the  kind  which  I  have  been  able  to  trace. 
But  it  will  be  observed  that  he  had  reached  Salisbury 
(and  probably  left  town)  only  on  Sunday  the  27th.  The 
letter  printed  in  the  '  Advertiser '  of  May  28  had  been 
most  likely  sent  to  Woodfall  on  the  26th.1 

Salisbury,  Tuesday  morning,  May  29,  1770. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — We  arrived  here  on  Sunday  evening  in  good 
health  and  spirits.  The  post  not  going  out  yesterday,  I  had  no  op- 
portunity of  writing  before. 

The  weather  has  been  just  what  we  could  wish.  I  hope  to  hear 
from  you  at  Bath,  and  news  of  the  dear  little  Mary. 

My  companions  send  their  compliments.     My  service  to  Patience: 
Adieu,  dearest. 

Tours, 

P.  F. 

Francis  was  again  in  town  for  a  few  days,  from  the 
middle  to  the  end  of  June.  In  these  days  appeared  a 

1  As  to  Francis's  or  Junius's  fear  of  using  the  post  office  for  the  trans- 
mission of  letters,  Mr.  Parkes  remarks  thus : — 

'  The  fictitiousness  of  the  handwriting  no  doubt  gave  the  author  security 
against  the  post  office.  So  also  his  use  of  a  few  and  not  commonly  used 
seals — seals  probably  kept  exclusively  for  use  in  his  Woodfall  private  cor- 
respondence. No  writer,  under  the  circumstances  of  such  sensitiveness  to 
discovery,  would  ever  have  trusted  his  natural  hand  to  the  London  penny 
post,  even  had  he  risked  it  to  Woodfall.  It  was  at  that  particular  period 
notorious  that  the  post  office  opened  letters  supposed  to  be  on  political  and 
party  topics,  even  of  public  men.  (See  Grenville  Correspondence,  vol.  iv. 
passim.)  Junius  was  wide  awake.  But  if  his  letters  had  been  thus  inter- 
cepted, the  government  probably  would  have  been  ncne  the  wiser.  In  the 
delivery  to  Woodfall,  per  post,  the  letters  might  have  been  officially  examined 
before  delivery ;  but  it  would  have  been  difficult  to  have  discovered  the 
locality  by  detecting  where  posted ;  and  as  there  was  no  knowledge  of  the 
handwriting  sought  for,  therefore  no  clue  to  the  writer's  identity.' 


1770]        SPECULATIONS  TO   MACBABIE  ON  JUNIUS.  243 

few  of  the  '  miscellaneous  '  letters,1  as  will  be  seen  by  their 
dates  (2G,  27,  30).  The  following  to  Macrabie  explains 
his  movements.  The  passage  about  Junius  is  an  answer 
to  certain  questions  of  Macrabie's.  (See  his  letters  from 
America  in  the  Appendix.) 

London,  June  12,  1770. 

Dear  Mac. — Since  my  last,  I  have  received  your  letters  of  the  10th 
of  March  and  25th  of  April.  I  do  not  think  they  contain  anything 
that  requires  a  more  particular  answer,  than  my  thanks  for  your 
writing  so  constantly  and  so  well.  In  the  matter  of  the  purchase  I 
shall  rely  on  Colonel  Francis  and  yourself.  If  you  both  think  it 
right  to  buy,  I  shall  always  be  ready  at  the  common  notice  of  bills 
of  exchange,  to  pay  the  money. 

The  Princess  of  Wales  is  gone  to  Germany.  She  means  to  show 
the  world  that  there  is  nothing  in  that  pretended  secret  influence 
which  has  been  so  much  talked  of  lately.  It  can  hardly  be  a  party 
of  pleasure  at  her  time  of  life,  and  many  people  think  she  will  never 
return.  If  the  opposition  do  not  entirely  succeed  in  all  their  designs, 
they  have  at  least  the  pleasure  of  tormenting  his  most  gracious 
Majesty  most  abominably. 

Junius  is  not  known,  and  that  circumstance  is  perhaps  as  curious 
as  any  of  his  writings.  I  have  always  suspected  Burke  ;  but,  who- 
ever he  is,  it  is  impossible  he  can  ever  discover  himself.  The  offence 

he  has  given  to  his  Majesty  and 2  is  more  than  any  private 

man  could  support ;  he  would  soon  be  crushed.  Almoa.  has  been 
found  guilty  of  republishing  the  letter  to  the  King,  and  Woodfall, 
who  was  the  original  publisher,  is  to  be  tried  to-morrow.  If  he  be 
found  guilty,  I  fancy  he  will  have  reason  to  remember  it.  I  have 
been  a  tour  through  Wiltshire,  and  as  far  as  Bath,  on  horseback,  and 
in  company  with  Tilman.  The  more  I  know  this  youth,  the  better 
I  like  him.  On  Friday  next  your  sister  sets  out  for  Margate,  where 
she  proposes  to  stay  two  months.  They  both  want  duckings — I  mean 
she  and  her  daughter  Bess.  You  have  given  me  no  orders  for  the 
present  lottery.  If  you  like  to  have  a  ticket,  I  may  hear  from  you 


1  By  '  miscellaneous '  letters,  I  have  already  said  that  I  mean  throughout 
those  to  the  'Advertiser,'  published  by  Woodfall  under  that  heading  as  (in 
his  belief)  written  by  Junius  ;  and  by  '  private,'  those  published  by  Woodfall 
as  privately  addressed  by  Junius  to  himself,  and  republished  in  Bohn's  Junius, 
which  I  have  chiefly  used.     The  originals  of  the  latter  now  belong  to  the 
family  of  Mr.  Parkes. 

2  Apparently  the  Duke  of  Grafton. 

B  2 


244  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

before  the  drawing.     Pray,  Sir,  have  you  any  thoughts  of  returning 
to  England  ?     And  so  farewell ! 

Yours  most  faithfully, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

Francis's  wife  went  accordingly  to  Margate,  he  remaining 
in  town,  as  appears  by  letters  from  the  War  Office,  June  18 
and  19,  to  her  at  Margate,  concerning  only  the  health  of 
the  children,  who  were  at  Fulham.  Part  of  the  first  is  printed 
only  for  the  sake  of  the  extraordinary  medical  prescrip- 
tion (according  to  modern  notions)  which  it  contains. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — Not  having  any  letter  by  the  post,  I  flatter 
myself  I  shall  receive  one  from  you  to-night  by  William.  I  saw 
the  children  this  morning.  Sally  has  had  the  toothache  violentl}*, 
but  by  the  help  of  a  poultice  she  slept  well  last  night,  and  is  free 
from  pain  this  day.  Philip  and  the  other  two  are  as  fierce  as  lions. 
Your  mother  was  in  bed.  Patty  has  been  bled  ;  her  blood  is  so  bad 
that  Price  says  she  must  be  bled  once  a  week  for  two  years  and 
some  months. 

To  the  same. 

June  19. 

My  dearest  Honesty, — I  wish  you  joy  of  yonr  snug  little  dwelling. 
William  knows  something  of  houses,  and  says  it  was  entirely 
to  his  satisfaction.  I  wrote  to  you  yesterday,  consequently  have 
not  much  to  say  at  present.  It  rained  bitterly  all  last  night  and 
this  morning — drop,  drop,  drop  into  my  room  last  night.  I 
wakened  with  the  noise,  and  took  it  for  thunder.  We  are  all  at 
sea.  If  it  holds  up,  I  shall  ride  to  Fulham  this  afternoon.  I  shall 
pay  you  a  visit  at  Margate  as  soon  as  Lord  Barrington  goes  out  of 
town. 

The  next  letter  chronicles  (to  Macrabie)  his  own  arrival 
at  Margate,  and  expatiates  on  schemes  for  the  acquisition 
of  property  in  America,  which  seem  at  this  time  to  have 
had  some  hold  on  his  imagination. 

Margate,  July  1,1770. 

My  dear  Mac. — I  arrived  at  this  enchanting  place,  to  pay  a  visit 
to  my  wife  and  daughter  Bess,  who  have  been  bathing  in  the  ocean 
about  a  fortnight.  I  assure  you  this  town  is  wonderfully  improved 
since  we  saw  it  about  five  years  ago :  a  fine  assembly  room,  a  good 


1770]  INVESTMENT   IN  AMERICAN  LAND.  245 

tavern,  a  coffee  house,  and  a  billiard  table,  to  say  nothing  of  the 
church,  which,  I  observe,  has  been  repaired  and  beautified.  Yet 
after  all,  I  doubt  whether  there  be  a  more  detestable  spot  in  any 
part  of  the  inhabitable  globe.  I  have  got  a  letter  from  our  honest 
cousin  Turbut,  which  it  is  absolutely  impossible  for  me  to  answer 
by  this  packet,  unless  it  should  happen  to  be  detained  a  fortnight 
beyond  its  usual  time.  Pray  tell  him  so,  and  that  I  am  inexpressibly 
obliged  to  him  for  the  trouble  he  has  taken  about  the  thousand 
acres.  As  to  his  other  project,  it  has  not  .been  in  my  power  to  con- 
sult anybody  yet,  nor  indeed,  supposing  it  a  thing  advisable,  do  I 
know  how  to  set  about  it :  he  talks  of  a  tract  of  country,  which  upon 
the  map  appears  equal  to  at  least  a  third  of  Ireland,  and  he  supposes 
that  I  have  nothing  to  do  but  to  ask  and  have.  I  wish  that  either 
he  or  you  had  been  more  particular.  One  thing  I  wish  you  to  tell 
him  directly — viz.  that  instead  of  having  a  great  deal  of  interest, 
as  he  seems  to  take  for  granted,  I  have  really  none  at  all.  How- 
ever, the  land  will  not  run  away,  and  I  must  have  time  to  make 
proper  inquiries.  By  next  packet,  I  shall  answer  him  fully. 
Between  ourselves,  is  this  youth  considered  a  visionary  projector  in 
the  country,  or  have  they  any  reasonable  opinion  of  his  discretion  ? 
I  should  also  be  glad  to  know  what  benefit  I  am  to  derive  from  my 
thousand  acres.  You,  I  presume,  have  not  lived  so  long  in  the  land 
market  without  making  yourself  a  freeholder,  and  laying  down 
some  plan  for  a  future  estate.  You  give  me  a  hint  of  your  returning 
this  summer,  and  I  have  kept  it  carefully  to  myself.  How  glad  we 
shall  be  to  see  you  is  more  than  I  can  conveniently  put  upon  paper  ; 
for  my  time  is  short,  and  my  paper  almost  out,  and  so,  my  dearest 
friend,  farewell !  We  have  a  very  agreeable  hurricane  here  every 
night. 

P.  FKANCIS. 


The  next '  miscellaneous  '  letter  (to  Bradshaw,  Q.  in  the 
Corner)  is  dated  July  7,  when  Francis  appears  by  his  do- 
mestic letters  to  have  reached  town  again. 

London,  July  9,  1770. 

My  dearest  Betsy,— Mr.  Womb  well,  whom  I  luckily  saw  last 
night  at  the  coffee  house,  promised  to  deliver  you  a  note  to  day,  by 
which  you  will  have  had  the  earliest  account  of  my  arrival.  I 
travelled  very  fast ;  it  rained  most  violently  in  the  evening  from 
seven  to  eight,  but  upon  the  whole  I  had  a  pleasant  journey.  Phil. 
Baggs  saw  the  children  yesterday.  They  and  all  the  family  at 


246  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

Fulham  are  in  perfect  health.     I  have  nothing  new,  and  so,  dearest, 
farewell !  Yours, 

P.  F. 

My  love  to  Bess  and  to  Miss  Holden.  Pray  remind  Mr.  Bouse  of 
my  horse. 

From  this  time  to  about  July  20  Francis  was  in  London, 
occasionally  visiting  his  children,  who  were  with  his ' 
father-in-law  Macrabie  at  Fulham.  This  appears  from 
several  letters  to  his  wife  on  matters  of  ordinary  domestic 
interest.  He  then  returned  to  Margate,  where  (apparently) 
he  remained  some  weeks ;  for  on  July  30,  his  friend  and 
fellow-clerk  D'Oyly  writes  to  him  there  as  follows  : — 

War  Office,  July  30,  1770. 

My  dear  Francis, — I  received  your  letter,  and  have  despatched 
the  inclosed  to  Major  Bromhead.  It  gave  me  real  satisfaction  to 
know  that  you  were  joyous  and  happy  at  Margate — continue  so, 
and  don't  suffer  the  War  Office  once  to  enter  your  thoughts.  Mrs. 
D'Oyly,  who  sends  her  respects  to  you  and  Mrs.  Francis,  is  by  no 
means  well,  and  has  been  much  indisposed  for  the  last  ten  days. 
She  says  you  are  a  fine  jolly  dog,  and  advises  you  to  be  so  as  long 
as  you  can. 

On  August  7,  D'Oyly  writes  to  him  at  Margate  again ; 
but,  on  August  17,  his  friend  Gravier  addresses  a  short 
letter  to  him  in  Duke  Street. 

Xow,  corresponding  with  this  summer  absence  of 
Francis,  there  is  a  cessation  of  Junius  from  May  28  to 
August  22,  and  of  the  '  miscellaneous '  letters  also,  except, 
as  already  noted,  for  a  few  days  in  June,  during  which 
days  Francis  was  demonstrably  on  a  temporary  visit  to 
town.  On  August  22  (five  days,  therefore,  after  Francis  is 
known  to  have  arrived  in  Duke  Street),  Junius  begins  again 
with  his  letter  on  the  well-known  subject  of  the  Luttrells. 
(I  will  not  here  repeat  the  connection  of  that  name  with 
the  early  antecedents  of  Francis,  on  which  Macaulay  laid 
so  much  stress.)  Francis  writes  to  Macrabie  from  London 


1770]  LETTER  TO  CALCRAFT.  247 

on  September  5  ;  and  after  this  there  is  again  a  long  cessa- 
tion, both  in  the  correspondence  of  Junius  and  in  that  of 
Francis.  No  Junius  appears  until  November  14,  1770 
(to  Lord  Mansfield) ;  and  no  miscellaneous.  On  Decem- 
ber 9, 1770,  Calcraft  sends  Lord  Chatham  the  remarkable 
anonymous  letter  printed  in  the  '  Chatham  Correspon- 
dence '  (vol.  iv.  p.  48),  and  supposed  to  be  by  Junius. 
•  On  December  10,  Francis  addresses  to  Calcraft,  under 
his  own  name,  a  very  curious  letter  (of  which  he  himself 
preserved  a  copy),  which  will  be  found  in  the  Appendix. 
It  appears  to  relate  to  an  intended  '  inquiry '  into  the 
administration  of  justice  in  the  courts  of  Westminster  Hall, 
and  forms,  as  it  were,  a  kind  of  brief  for  employment 
against  Lord  Mansfield.  The  coincidence  between  this 
letter,  the  contemporary  productions  of  Junius,  and  the 
reports  of  the  speeches  of  Lord  Chatham,  is  obvious  ; 
but  the  writer  seems  to  have  sought  to  avoid  identity  of 
expression.  Why  Francis  should  have  addressed  so 
formal  a  composition  to  Calcraft,  with  whom  he  was  in 
constant  private  intercourse,  can  only  be  conjectured. 
Probably  he  meant  it  to  be  shown  to  Chatham. 

The  next  manuscript  letter  preserved  is  one  of 
December  11,  to  his  relative  Major  Philip  Baggs,  ap- 
parently at  Cork.  The  extraordinary  scene  in  the 
House  of  Lords  mentioned  in  it,  at  which  Francis  was 
doubtless  present,  is  further  alluded  to  in  the  fragment  of 
autobiography. 

To  Major  Baggs. 

London,  December  11,  1770. 

A  very  odd  thing  happened  yesterday  in  the  House  of  Lords.  The 
Duke  of  Manchester  declared  that  he  had  a  motion  to  make,  and 
was  very  quietly  explaining  the  ground  and  occasion  of  it,  particu- 
larly the  defenceless  state  of  the  nation.  After  he  had  been  talking 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  Lord  Gower  got  up  and  interrupted 
him,  saying  that  such  matters  were  unfit  to  be  divulged  before  so 


248  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

crowded  an  audience,  and  therefore  insisted  that  his  Grace  should 
not  proceed  until  the  House  was  cleared.  This  motion  was  vehe- 
mently opposed  by  the  Duke  of  Richmond  ;  but  the  cry  of  clear  the 
Hoiise  increased  to  such  a  clamour  and  tumult,  that  nothing  else  could 
be  heard.  Upon  this  Lord  Chatham  got  up  and  roared  out  that  he 
wanted  to  speak  to  order,  but  not  a  syllable  more  could  I  distinguish. 
Since  the  damning  of  the  French  dancers  I  never  saw  such  a  scene. 
At  last  Chatham,  finding  it  in  vain  to  persist,  marched  out  of  the 
House  in  the  true  style  of  Secession,  and  was  followed  by  all  the 
minority  lords,  even  the  Duke  of  Manchester,  who  was1  to  make  the 
motion.  Lord  Mansfield,  who  sits  as  Speaker,  did  all  he  could  to 
appease  them,  but  to  no  purpose,  and  now  they  say  those  lords  are 
preparing  a  flaming  protest.  The  House  of  Commons  immediately 
ordered  all  peers  to  be  turned  out  of  their  House,  for  there  was  a 
great  number  of  commoners  in  the  House  of  Lords  when  the  affair 
happened. 

The  foregoing  is  by  way  of  news,  of  which,  and  everything  else,  I 
hope  you  will  make  a  discreet  use.  I  had  yesterday  your  letter  from 
Plymouth,  and  am  satisfied  you  have  done  all  you  could.  With 
respect  to  your  namesake  George,  depend  upon  it,  if  ever  in  my 
power — at  present  I  could  as  easily  move  Olympus :  besides, 
in  the  present  augmentation  there  will  be  but  very  few  commissions 
to  dispose  of,  for  all  the  seconded  officers  are  to  be  brought  in,  and 
great  care  to  be  taken  of  the  half  pay.  I  wish  you  a  good  voyage, 
and  so  farewell ! 

P.  F. 

We  now  enter  on  a  series  of  writings  with  their  corre- 
sponding events,  which  may  be  said  to  constitute  a  curious 
episode,  only,  in  the  Junius  correspondence,  but  which 
proved  of  great  influence  over  the  subsequent  career 
of  Francis. 

I  allude  to  the  letters  respecting  the  affair  of  the  Falk- 
land Islands.  (Junius,  January  30,  1771  ;  Pkilo-Junius, 
Februaiy  6.)  The  historical  circumstances  of  the  case 
need  scarcely  be  recapitulated.  The  English  had  taken 
possession  of  these  islands  by  alleged  priority  of  discovery. 
The  Spaniards,  jealous  of  an  English  establishment  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  their  South  American  dominions,  '  sent 
an  armament  from  an  American  port,  which  dispossessed 


1770]  FALKLAND  ISLANDS.  249 

the  English  and  sent  them  ignominiously  home.  An  act 
of  such  hostility  was  to  be  resented.  Complaints  were 
made  to  the  Court  of  Madrid,  and  preparations  were -at  the 
same  time  commenced  for  going  to  war  if  the  Spaniards 
should  refuse  to  restore  the  islands  without  a  contest. 
Negotiations  were  protracted,  but  the  Spaniards  at  length 
agreed  to  make  the  required  restitution,  but  without  re- 
linquishing their  right ;  while  it  was  secretly  stipulated 
that  England,  soon  after  the  surrender,  should  evacuate  the 
disputed  possession '  (Lord  Stanhope).  The  indignation  of 
Junius  at  these  arrangements  is  expressed  in  the  strongest 
language.  '  The  motives  on  which  the  Catholic  king  makes 
restitution,'  he  says,  '  are,  if  possible,  more  insolent  and 
disgraceful  to  our  sovereign  than  even  the  declaratory 
condition  annexed  to  it.'  The  opportunity  of  making  a 
short  and  successful  war,  before  France  had  meddled  with 
the  negotiations,  had  been  lost  through  the  '  treachery  of 
the  king's  servants.  We  might  have  dictated  the  law  to 
Spain.  There  are  no  terms  to  which  she  might  not  have 
been  compelled  to  submit.  At  the  worst,  a  war  with  Spain 
alone  carries  the  fairest  promise  of  advantage.'  He  an- 
ticipates the  speedy  occurrence  of  hostilities  at  a  greater 
disadvantage,  '  when  the  collected  strength  of  the  house 
of  Bourbon  attacks  us  at  once.'  '  The  real  questions  are  ' 
(thus  he  concludes  his  diatribe) :  '  Have  we  any  security 
that  the  peace  we  have  so  dearly  purchased  will  last  a 
twelvemonth  ?  and  if  not,  have  we,  or  have  we  not,  sacri- 
ficed the  fairest  opportunity  of  making  war  with  advan- 
tage?' 

The  singularity  of  this  deviation  from  the  ordinary 
topics  of  Junius's  letters,  unconnected  with  anything 
before  and  after  it,  will  doubtless  have  struck  many  a 
reader.  Nothing  can  be  more  marked  than  the  general 
disinclination  of  Junius  to  meddle  seriously  with  any  but 


250  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

subjects  of  the  most  strictly  domestic  politics.  The  trans- 
actions and  discussions  of  the  cabinet,  the  court,  the  city, 
the  tribunals  of  justice,  form  the  daily,  almost  the  exclu- 
sive, subjects  on  which  he  expresses  himself  with  interest. 
On  foreign  affairs  he  rarely  touches,  and  then  slightly. 
Even  America — at  that  time  the  great  object  on  which  the 
eyes  of  serious  thinkers  were  fixed — is  not  often  brought 
prominently  forward,  and  then  somewhat  timidly,  as  if  he 
had  hardly  made  up  his  mind  which  side  to  take.1  India 
he  rarely  mentions.  What  particular  motive  roused  his 
feelings  so  strongly  on  the  subject  of  this  Spanish  quarrel? 
It  did  not  afford  opportunity  for  the  discharge  of  obloquy 
on  any  of  the  favourite  objects  of  his  aversion.  He 

1  Junius,  as  has  been  often  observed,  entertained  apparently  a  bigher  opinion 
of  George  Grenville  than  of  any  other  British  statesman ;  he  shared,  or 
assumed,  the  political  views  of  Grenville  in  general ;  and  (as  we  have  seen  in 
former  chapters,  and  as  Dr.  Mason  Good  remarks  in  his  Preliminary  Essay) 
anterior  to  the  American  contest,  was  '  as  thoroughly  convinced  as  Mr.  George 
Grenville  himself  of  the  supremacy  of  the  legislature  of  the  country  over  the 
American  colonies.'  But  when  Junius  became  engaged,  towards  the  end  of 
his  correspondence,  with  the  party  who  were  aiming  at  the  restoration  of 
Lord  Chatham  to  power,  his  views  on  the  American  question  evidently 
became  modified,  although  (as  said  in  the  text)  he  alludes  but  little  to  the 
subject.  Now  it  is  worthy  of  note  that  precisely  the  same  change  took  place 
in  the  American  politics  of  Philip  Francis,  as  recounted  by  himself  in  the 
following  letter  to  his  friend  D'Oyly,  from  India,  just  when  the  long  dissen- 
sion was  ripening  into  war  (January  22,  1776)  : — 

'  Your  account  of  American  politics  gives  me  no  sort  of  comfort,  except  in 
the  reflection  that  my  situation  removes  me  from  any  share  in  measures  of 
which  I  cannot  approve,  and  perhaps  could  not  have  opposed.  I  know  not 
what  that  object  is,  which,  either  in  morals  or  policy,  can  justify  the 
shedding  of  English  blood  by  the  hands  of  Englishmen.  Is  it  revenue  ? 
the  present  armament  will  cost  the  nation  more  than  all  the  direct  taxes 
that  can  be  raised  from  America  will  amount  to  in  a  century.  Is  it  com- 
merce ?  you  have  a  navy  to  guard  the  seas  ;  the  Americans  have  none,  nor 
can  ever  have  any.  If  neither  of  these  objects  be  in  question,  it  must  be 
only  the  form  of  dominion,  not  the  substance ;  and  thousands  may  bleed, 
even  the  Empire  may  be  shaken,  for  a  name.  There  was  a  time  when  I 
could  reason  as  logically  and  passionately  as  anybody  against  the  Americans ; 
but  since  I  have  been  obliged  to  study  the  book  of  wisdom,  I  have  dismissed 
logic  out  of  my  library.  The  fate  of  nations  must  not  be  tried  by  forms.' 


1770]  FALKLAND  ISLANDS.  251 

bestows  only  a  passing  sneer  or  two  on  Lord  North  and 
Lord  Rochford.  He  says  (in  his  fragment  of  autobio- 
graphy) that  he  and  his  friend  Calcraft  had  made  up  their 
minds  that  the  unpopularity  of  the  Falkland  Islands  affair 
was  likely  to  bring  their  patron,  Lord  Chatham,  into  power 
again.  But  it  is  difficult  not  to  suspect  that  some  closer 
personal  feeling  lay  at  the  bottom,  or  at  least  contributed. 
Is  any  light  thrown  on  the  question  by  the  following 
letters  ? — 

London,  December  11,  1770. 

My  dear  Mac. — I  have  not  written  to  you  for  the  two  last 
packets,  because  I  really  expected  to  have  seen  you  some  time  ago 
in  England.  At  last  I  have  received  yours  of  October  20,  by  which 
I  understand  you  have  escaped  back  to  Philadelphia  from  a  thousand 
disasters.  But  your  return  is  as  uncertain  as  ever.  My  life  is  one 
continued  scene  of  fermentation.  The  approach  of  a  war  loads  me 
with  business,  as,  by  and  by,  I  hope  it  will  with  money.  I  shall 
send  the  25Z.  by  the  first  opportunity  to  Fulham.  Pray  tell  the  new 
married  that  a  tenth  company  is  going  to  be  added  to  the  44th  Regi- 
ment, and  that  he  will  certainly  be  called  upon  as  a  seconded  officer. 
We  expect  a  declaration  of  war  every  day,  and  great  preparations 
are  making  by  sea  and  land.  Your  nephew  is  the  finest  creature 
that  does  honour  to  the  earth.  Your  sister  and  all  the  little  folks 
are  well.  I  must  bid  you  farewell. 

P.  FRANCIS. 

I  wish  you  would  tell  me  what  I  am  to  do  with  these  thousand 
acres. 

Francis,  it  will  be  seen,  in  December  counted  on  war  as  a 
certainty.  So  did  Calcraft,  his  ally  and  fellow-counsellor 
of  Lord  Chatham.  '  I  differ  from  you,'  writes  Gerald 
Hamilton  to  him  on  the  20th;  'I  still  think  there  will  be 
peace.'  ('  Chatham  Correspondence,'  iv.  62.)  And  he  proved 
right ;  the  two  conspirators,  Francis  and  Calcraft,  wrong.1 

1  See  the  note  in  Bonn's  l  Junius,'  ii.  318,  as  to  the  curious  and  almost 
literal  correspondence  between  the  anonymous  letter  (Miscell.  Ixxxi. 
'Materials  for  History,'  December  14,  1770)  and  the  contemporaneous 
notices  given  by  Calcraft  to  Chatham.  Sir  Philip  Francis  (as  observed  in 
that  note)  got  back  from  Calcraft's  family  all  the  letters  and  papers  which  he 
had  himself  addressed  to  Calcraft. 


252  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1770 

To  Macrabie. 

London,  February  12,  1771. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  really  reproach  myself  with  suffering  two 
packets  to  depart  without  a  letter  to  you.  I  cannot  tell  how  it  has 
happened  ;  so  without  farther  examination  or  apology,  I  shall  hope 
you  will  forgive  me.  At  last  we  have  something  like  a  peace  with 
Spain :  how  likely  it  is  to  continue,  is  another  question.  Our  ar- 
maments, particularly  of  ships,  seem  to  continue  as  vigorously  as  if 
war  had  been  declared.  In  my  own  private  opinion,  the  Spaniards 
always  meant  war ;  and  we  shall  have  it,  as  soon  as  they  and  the 
French  are  ready  for  us.  You  Americans  will  be  losers  by  the  bargain. 
In  war  we  should  probably  have  wanted  your  assistance,  and  yielded 
to  your  own  terms.  But  now  you  must  submit.  I  cannot  forgive 
your  staying  in  America  upon  any  principle  but  your  making  a  for- 
tune. One  would  think  you  might  venture  to  give  me  a  hint,  or  so. 

Y  mr  father's  letter,  which  I  sent  by  the  packet,  will,  I  suppose, 
contain  a  true  account  of  family  matters.  We  are  well.  Your 
nephew  is,  without  flattery,  a  most  extraordinary  child.  His  mind 
and  body  seem  to  be  everything  we  could  wish. 

Tilman  dined  with  me  yesterday,  and  swallowed  a  moiety  of  two 
bottles  of  claret.  I  shall  not  be  easily  reconciled  to  his  leaving  old 
England.  Tell  his  father  and  mother  very  seriously  that  it  would 
be  a  pity  to  remove  him  so  soon  from  his  studies — alias  from  Covent 
Garden.  .  .  .  You  cannot  conceive  how  close  he  applies.  Your 
old  friend  Meyrick,  I  hear,  has  espoused  that  young  lady  ;  and  does 
business  again.  The  rest  of  your  acquaintance  are  pretty  much  in 
statu  quo. 

We  lead  a  jolly  kind  of  life.  This  night  to  a  concert — on  Thurs- 
day to  a  ridotto — on  Saturday  the  opera — and  on  Tuesday  follow- 
ing a  grand  private  ball  at  the  London  Tavern.  We  desire  nothing 
but  that  you  were  here  to  partake  with  us.  Adieu! 

P.  FR. 

It  is  conceivable  that,  in  those  days,  the  mere  per- 
quisites of  office,  direct  and  indirect,  may  have  afforded 
an  official  in  the  War  Office  strong  reasons  for  rejoicing 
in  a  declaration  of  hostilities,  and  much  disappointment 
in  the  making  up  of  a  quarrel.  But  that  the  interest  of 
Francis  in  the  decision  of  the  question  was  still  stronger 
and  more  exciting  than  this,  we  learn  from  a  passage  in 
his  fragment  of  autobiography : — 


1770]  MAJOR  THILIP  BAGGS.  253 

Still,  however,  we  thought  a  Spanish  war  inevitable  :  and  that 
Chatham  must  be  employed.  Lord  Weymouth,  in  that  conviction, 
resigned  the  Secretary  of  State's  office,1  and  Host  500Z.  in  the  stocks. 
By  that  loss,  however,  I  gained  knowledge  enough  of  the  mode  of 
transacting  business  in  the  alley  to  deter  me  from  entering  into 
such  traffic  again. 

It  would  seem,  therefore,  that  this  outburst  of  zeal  for 
the  national  honour  on  the  part  of  Junius  may  be  partly 
interpreted  as  an  attempt  to  back  a  financial  speculation 
of  Francis  by  bearing  the  stock  market.  It  is  rather 
singular  (considering  his  usual  caution)  that  he  should 
have  left  this  passage  of  the  autobiography  uncancelled. 

The  family  papers  do  not  elucidate  the  mystery  of  the 
next  letter,  which  is  in  the  peculiarly  cautious  and 
conspirator-like  style  often  adopted  by  Francis.  It  in- 
troduces us  to  a  family  correspondent  and  cousin  already 
once  mentioned,  Major  Philip  Baggs,  the  son  of  a  sister 
of  Dr.  Francis  (see  the  pedigree).  He  was  in  constant 
communication  with  Francis  for  many  years ;  and 
joined  him  (for  a  short  time)  in  India  in  1778.  According 
to  Francis  he  was  an  officer  of  distinguished  military 
qualities  ;  but  seems  to  have  been  better  known  as  a  '  man 
about  town,'  who  earned  a  certain  amount  of  glory  in 
1777,  by  a  duel  with  Fighting  Fitzgerald,  in  which  Baggs 
was  wounded. 

To  Major  Philip  Baggs,  69th  Regiment,  on  the  arrival  of  the  '  Ajax ' 
at  Cork,  Ireland. 

London,  December  7,  1770. 

Dear  Phil. — I  wrote  to  you  some  days  since  at  Cork.  This 
morning  I  received  yours  of  the  14th  from  Plymouth,  and  am  very 
sensible  of  the  truth  of  what  you  say.  N.B.  There  are  some  subjects 
which  should  not  be  trusted  even  to  paper.  Your  observation  in 


1  'Lord  Weymouth's  language  upon  his  resignation  is  that  for  the  present 
he  does  not  think  himself  at  liberty  to  explain  to  anybody  the  reasons  for  it ; 
that  they,  however,  will  soon  appear ;  but  in  general  he  is  free  to  declare 
that  he  was  called  upon  to  contradict  the  measures  he  was  before  directed  to 
pursue,  and  this  is  what  he  would  not  do.'  (G.  Hamilton  to  Calcraft,  MS.) 


254  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

Italian  is  very  just.     The  thing  was  entirely  by  the  invention  and 

impudence  of  the  worthy  Mr.  B ;  au  reste,  let  this  subject  never 

be  mentioned  again  until  we  meet.     Nothing  could  be  more  hurried 
than  the  whole  compilation. 

I   hope  Martin  will   stand  fast.     You   shall   have   the   earh'est 
notice. 

Adieu  !     I  am  tired  of  wishing  you  a  good  voyage. 

P.  F. 

It  appears  from  the  next  (to  his  wife)  that  Francis  paid 
this  year  liis  Christmas  visit  to  his  father  : — 

Bath,  December  23,  1770,  Sunday. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — The  weather  and  company  I  was  in  must 
have  assured  you  that  I  had  a  most  agreeable  journey.  We  arrived 
at  Marlborough  at  seven,  and  found  ourselves  eating  an  incomparable 
dinner  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  We  got  into  Bath  at  one 
o'clock.  My  father  I  think  is  wonderfully  mended  in  health  and 
spirits.  We  all  lodge  together  in  a  very  comfortable,  I  might  say 
an  elegant  house.  Upon  the  whole  it  promises  to  be  a  very  agree- 
able expedition.  A  thousand  kisses  to  my  sweet  chicks,  not 
forgetting  Philip.  Compliments  in  abundance  to  your  father, 
mother,  and  Patty. 

Yours,  yours,  yours, 

P.  FRANCIS. 

The  return  of  Francis  from  Bath  to  London  is  signalised 
by  the  appearance  in  the  '  Advertiser '  of  one  or  two  '  mis- 
cellaneous '  letters  (Intelligence  Extraordinary,  January  9, 
Anti-W.,  January  11).  And  the  following  from  Dr.  Francis 
is  evidently  an  answer  to  one  from  his  son,  announcing 
his  arrival  in  town  : — 

Bath,  January  9,  1771. 

Thanks  for  your  journey,  your  own  health,  and  that  of  your 
family.  Your  good  news  from  Mr.  Rob — n  l  I  shall  expect  with 
impatience,  for  all  my  spirits  went  to  town  on  Sunday.  Yet  I  can 
rejoice  with  you  on  your  account  of  Lord  Ch — m's  high  health,  and 
poor  Lord  Holland's  being  better.  I  will  not  tax  your  goodness  of 
heart  with  politics  :  let  me  only  entreat  you  to  give  me  the  earliest 
certainty  of  peace  or  war  (with  Spain).  My  heart  is  much  set  "on 

1  I  suppose,  Mr.  Robinson  of  the  Treasury,  whom  the  veteran  pamphle- 
teer designates  by  this  blank,  and  the  '  news '  most  likely  only  related  to 
some  Treasury  payment  due  to  Francis,  or  to  his  father  as  a  pensioner. 


1771]  FOX  AND.  THE  'PUBLIC  ADVERTISER.'  255 

this  request.     Farewell,  my  dearly  beloved  and  esteemed ;  may  your 
boy  make  you  as  happy  a  father  as  I  am  ! 

B  Your  ever  affectionate 

P.  FRANCIS. 

If  you  get  our  Treasury  money,  you  need  not  be  in  an  hurry  to 
send  it.  The  joyful  certainty  of  it  will  dispel  all  doubts  and  fears 
for  a  month.  My  soul  thanks  you. 

To  Major  Baggs. 

War  Office,  January  29,  1771. 

Dear  Phil. — I  am  desired  by  my  Lord  Barrington  to  acknowledge 
your  letter  of  the  llth  instant,  and  to  acquaint  you  that  he  thinks 
very  favourably  of  your  merit  and  services,  and  that  he  is  well 
inclined,  upon  all  proper  occasions,  to  serve  you ;  but  considering 
that  you  are  one  of  the  youngest  majors  he  is  of  opinion  that  it 
would  be  an  injustice  to  majors  of  a  longer  standing,  if  the  promo- 
tion in  the  69th  were,  in  this  instance,  to  go  in  the  regiment. 

So  much  for  my  office.  My  private  interest  is  undoubtedly  at 
your  command  ;  and  if  it  ever  does  you  or  myself  or  anybody  else 
any  good  we  must  have  fortune  on  our  side. 

I  am  overwhelmed  with  business  ;  but  your  affairs  are  beyond  any 
remedy  from  me,  if  I  were  to  dedicate  my  whole  time  to  them.  I 
have  heard  no  more  of  Robinson.  I  saw  Coombe  this  morning. 
He  has  been  really  very  ill  for  several  weeks,  and  I  fear  the  accounts 
he  has  got  of  Martin  are  not  likely  to  mend  his  health.  He  supposes 
Martin  is  out  of  town,  for  he  has  written  and  can  get  no  answer.  In 
his  opinion  and  my  own  there  is  not  the  shadow  of  a  chance.  You 
will  curse  me  for  my  intelligence,  but  what  signifies  concealment  ? 

I  myself  am  hipped  beyond  measure,  and  indeed  with  too  much 
reason.  Yet  we  are  all  well  in  Duke  street.  Wilkes  and  Home 
have  brought  their  villany  and  folly  before  the  public  ;  and  this 
morning  Macleane  publishes  a  challenge  which  he  sent  to  Wilkes 
yesterday  and  which  he  says  Wilkes  positively  refused.  And  so 
farewell ;  I  have  no  comfort  of  any  kind  for  you. 

P.  FRANCIS. 

At  this  point  in  the  series  occurs  another  curious 
episode,  which  Mr.  Parkes  thought  of  sufficient  importance 
to  make  a  subject  of  special  examination.  The  following 
letter  (in  the  undoubted  handwriting  of  Charles  Fox)  was 
found  in  a  search  among  Mr.  Woodfall's  papers  : — 

Sir, — A  letter  having  appeared  in  your  paper  of  yesterday,  signed 
Ulysses,  in  which  my  name  is  mentioned,  I  should  be  much  obliged 


250  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

to  you  if  you  let  me  know  who  is  the  author  of  it.  If  you  can  not 
do  this  without  his  leave,  I  beg  you  will  tell  him  from  me  that  I 
hope  he  will  do  me  the  favour  to  let  me  know  his  name,  that  I  may 
have  some  conversation  with  him  upon  the  subject  of  that  letter.  If 
the  author  either  is  or  professes  himself  to  be  a  gentleman,  he  can 
scarcely  refuse  me  this  request.  I  beg  you  will  understand  that  I 
do  not  write  this  to  be  printed  in  your  paper,  but  merely  because  I 
have  not  found  you  at  home. 

I  am,  Sir,  your  humble  servant, 

C.  J.  Fox. 
Tuesday,  2  o'clock. 

Direct  your  answer  to  me  at  Lord  Holland's,  Piccadilly. 

This  letter,  without  note  of  year  or  month,  it  will  be 
observed,  was  underwritten  '  Tuesday,  2  o'clock.'  The 
letter  of  Ulysses  therefore  must  have  been  in  a  'Public 
Advertiser '  of  a  Monday.  Accordingly  in  the  file  of 
the  paper  Mr.  Parkes  found  the  letter,  viz.  Monday, 
March  4,  1771.  In  the  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  the  2nd, 
Mr.  Parkes  found  the  following  notice  among  the  usual 
notices  to  correspondents  : — 

The  printer  is  extremely  sorry  that  the  length  of  the  letter  signed 
Ulysses,  addressed  to  Lord  North,  joined  to  the  very  short  notice 
given,  prevented  its  publication  to-day.  It  shall  certainly  appear  on 
Monday. 

The  letter  is  as  follows  (that  is,  the  part  of  it  relating 
to  C.  Fox,  who  had  voted  with  Lord  North  against  the 
Nullum  Tempus  Bill)  : — 

It  was  not  glorious  enough  for  Mr.  Charles  Fox  barely  to  contra- 
dict himself ;  it  was  reserved  for  him  at  the  opening  of  his  life  to 
prove  how  easy  and  irreproachable  it  is  under  your  lordship's  ad- 
ministration to  betray  his  first,  his  nearest,  and  his  dearest  friend  ; 
to  sacrifice  the  interests  and  the  honour  of  a  young  nobleman,1  the 

1  The  Duke  of  Portland  ?  '  Charles  Fox,'  saya  Horace  Walpole,  '  the 
phenomenon  of  the  age,  undertook  the  patronage  of  the  Bill,  and  gave  as 
much  satisfaction  to  the  party  as  disgust  to  the  opposition.'  (Memoirs  of 
Grenville.)  He  was  one  of  the  tellers  of  the  '  Noes.' —  Vide  Parl.  History, 
vol.  xvii.  p.  1. 


1771]  FOX  AND  WOODFALL.  257 

companion  and  the  confidant  of  his  private  hours,  at  the  dishonour- 
able shrine  of  ministerial  influence.  But  he,  too,  heard  the  lessons 
of  Sir  William  Bagot ;  and  I  will  do  Mr.  Charles  Fox  the  justice  to 
allow  that  he  is  a  ready  scholar. 

The  result  appears  to  be,  that  Woodfall,  in  a  '  notice  to 
correspondents '  of  March  5,  acknowledges  the  receipt 
of  a  second  letter  of  Ulysses ;  but  that  this  letter 
never  appeared,  Fox's  interpellation  having  probably 
produced  its  effect  by  deterring  the  writer.  The  same 
circumstance — if  Ulysses  was  Junius,  as  the  style  would 
certainly  render  probable — may  have  prevented  Woodfall 
from  including  this  among  the  '  miscellaneous  '  letters. 
But  this  is  conjecture  at  best.  Mr.  Parkes  (as  will  be 
seen  presently)  believed  that  just  at  this  period  there  was 
a  cessation  of  correspondence  with  the  'Public  Advertiser,' 
owing  to  an  illness  of  Francis. 

However  this  may  be,  no  early  relations,  political  or 
other,  are  traceable  between  Fox  and  Francis.  Francis 
himself — writing  some  years  afterwards,  in  India— says 
that  he  had  only  once  in  his  life  had  even  a  short 
conversation  with  him. 

Madame  ma  Femme  to  Madame  ma  Gousine. 

London,  March  6, 1771. 

Monsieur  mon  Frere, — On  Monday  last  I  received  your  letter  of 
the  4th  of  January.  After  all  your  Corte  Venue,1  the  bark  that  brings 
you  to  England  will,  I  fancy,  be  of  most  use  to  you,  at  least  in  point 
of  bodily  health.  Forgive  the  pun,  it  is  a  sin  I  am  not  often  guilty 
of.  But  you  are  silent  about  your  future  plans  for  life.  Have  you 
any,  my  friend,  or  are  you  as  much  afloat  as  ever  ?  I  enquire  with 
anxiety.  There  was  a  time  when  I  thought  there  might  be  a  turn 
of  affairs2  which  would  enable  me  to  serve  .my  friend,  but  that  pros- 
pect is  vanished,  and  I  fear  there  is  no  hope  of  its  returning 
with  substance.  In  my  own  place  here,  I  am  tolerably  secure,  and 
with  this  we  must  rest  contented.  Tilman  almost  lives  with  us. 
He  is  so  much  in  fashion,  that  I  have  hardly  an  acquaintance  who 
does  not  desire  to  see  him  whenever  we  are  invited. 


1  Sic  or  illegible.  2  See  post,  p.  261. 

VOL.  I.  S 


258  MEMOIES  .OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

Our  friends  in  Bruton  Street  improve  every  day.  We  hardly  ever 
meet,  and  I  protest  I  cannot  tell  why,  for  I  am  no  poorer  than  I  was 
when  their  friendship  was  most  ardent.  My  laying  down  the  coach 
was  prudence,  not  necessity ;  but  they,  I  suppose,  suspect  the  contrary. 
At  any  rate  I  know  myself  to  be  independent ;  and  if  it  were  other- 
wise, they  are  the  last  of  the  creation  to  whom  I  would  yield  a  tittle. 
Yet  my  contempt  for  them  is  expressed  with  all  the  politeness  ima- 
ginable. They  shall  have  no  hold  to  fasten  an  offence  upon  me. 

In  the  way  of  news  I  think  we  decline  every  day.  The  House  of 
Commons  are  every  day  treated  like  an  assembly  of  pick-pockets, 
and  even  the  newspapers  have  lost  their  dignity. 

There  was  a  great  and  sudden  fall  of  the  stocks  yesterday,  but  I 
have  not  heard  it  accounted  for  upon  any  principles,  but  the  usual 
roguery  of  the  alley. 

The  whisper  given  about  is,  that  the  Duke  of  Choiseul  is  to  be 
recalled,  consequently  an  immediate  war  to  be  expected.  But  this  I 
take  to  be  nonsense.  I  shall  be  ready  to  honour  your  draughts. 
What  do  you  propose  to  do  with  your  own  acres,  and  what  would  you 
advise  me  to  do  with  mine  ?  My  love  to  Turbut.  He  has  some 
reason  to  be  discontented  with  me,  but  not  so  much  as  he  imagines. 
Enforce  the  necessity  of  Tilman's  staying  here.  Adieu  ! 

P.  F. 

How  did  you  Americans  like  Lord  Chatham's  speech  ?  It  was 
really  genuine.  Vale  ! 

As  an  introduction  to  the  letters  which  next  follow,  I 
insert  a  memorandum  which  I  find  among  Mr.  Parkes's 
papers,  on  the  subject  of  a  fit  of  illness  which  at  this  time 
attacked  Francis,  and  of  a  corresponding  slackness  in  the 
Junius  writings. 

On  January  9,  1771,  Francis  writes,  from  the  War  Office,  to 
Major  Baggs  (directing  to  him  at  Gibraltar)  that  he  had  been  at  Bath. 
His  next  letter  to  the  Major  is  dated  January  29,  also  from  the  War 
Office.  In  the  latter  letter  he  says,  '  I  myself  am  hipped  beyond 
measure,  and  indeed  with  too  much  reason.  Yet  we  are  all  well  in 
Duke  Street.'  In  the  same  letter  he  mentions  Wilkes  and  Home, 
and  the  refusal  of  Macleane's  challenge  of  the  latter.  Then  follows 
a  long  interregnum  in  their  correspondence  ;  the  next  letter  of  Francis 
to  Baggs  bearing  date  'War  Office,  March  30,  1771.'  The  hiatus 
is  accounted  for  by  the  following  passage  :  '  I  have  had  a  dangerous 
fever,  and  am  still  very  ill  with  a  sore  throat.  Everything  I  see  and 
hear  discourages  me,  even  from  hoping.  If  a  fair  opportunity  pre- 


1771]  ILLNESS  OF  FRANCIS.  259 

sented  itself  for  the   East  Indies In  the   same   letter  he 

mentions  City  politics,  and  that  '  the  Lord  Mayor  and  Oliver  are 
very  much  at  their  ease  in  the  Tower  ; '  also  that  '  the  House  of 
Commons  seem  afraid  to  meddle  with  Wilkes.  The  City  are  again 
to  address  for  a  dissolution.' 

Now,  this  illness  of  Francis  much  explains  the  non-appearance  of 
any  letter  from  Junius  between  February  6,  1771,  and  April  22  fol- 
lowing, when  Junius  recommenced  his  public  letters  under  the 
signature  of  Philo-Junius.  Nor  does  Woodfall  attribute  to  Junius 
any  miscellaneous  letter  between  February  22,  1771,  and  March  25 
following.1  Further,  there  remains  no  private  letter  addressed  by 
Junius  to  Woodfall  (at  this  period  of  Francis's  illness)  between 
March  5  and  May  4.  Again,  it  is  remarkable  that  in  this  first  week 
of  March  Junius  was  certainly  not  personally  the  '  conveyancer  '  of 
the  correspondence  between  himself  and  his  printer — because,  in  a 
note  of  the  date  March  3,  he  tells  Woodfall  that  a  letter  of  the  latter 
to  him  '  was  twice  refused  last  night,  and  the  waiter  as  often 
attempted  to  see  the  person  who  sent  for  it.'  Junius,  in  the  same 
note,  orders  Woodfall  to  send  a  parcel  to  him  directed  to  be  left  at 
the  bar  of  Munday's  coffee-house,  Maiden  Lane,  '  and  with  orders  to 
be  delivered  to  a  chairman  who  will  ask  for  it  in  the  course  of  to- 
morrow evening.'  That  from  some  special  cause  Junius  was  at  this 
particular  time  unable  to  conduct  his  communications  as  usual  with 
his  printer  is  distinctly  apparent;  for  in  another  note  to  Woodfall, 
on  March  5,  acknowledging  safe  receipt  of  the  above  parcel,  he 
writes,  'The  diffictdty  of  corresponding  arises  from  situation  andnecessity 
to  which  we  must  submit.'  Now  this  unusual  '  gap  '  in  the  Junius 
correspondence,  public  and  private,  exactly  and  remarkably  tallies 
with  the  serious  ailment  occurring  at  the  same  time  to  Francis  ; 
and  the  like  suspension  of  correspondence  so  occurring  between 
Francis  and  other  correspondents  of  Francis.  A  similar  hiatus 
occurs  in  Francis's  letters  to  his  brother-in-law  Macrabie  at  Phila- 
delphia ;  the  last  extant  letter  of  Francis,  bearing  date  March  6, 
dated  '  London,'  and  his  next  letter  to  the  same  relative  being 
addressed  from  the  War  Office,  'May  1,  1771.'  The  draft  letters  in 
the  latter  office  for  three  weeks  from  the  early  part  of  March  are 
none  of  them  in  Francis's  handwriting,  -  who  therefore  may  be 
assumed  to  have  been  ill  in  Duke  Street  or  at  Fulham. 


1  Mr.  Parkes  is  not  quite  accurate  here.  Woodfall  inserts  among  the 
'  miscellaneous  letters  '  the  short  one  of  Vindex,  March  6,  on  the  subject  of 
Laughlin  Macleane.  And  Mr.  Parkes  attributes  to  Jutmis  (though  Woodfull 
does  not)  the  letter  of  Ulysses,  March  4.  See  antt. 

s  2 


260  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

The  silence  of  the  pen  of  Junius  during  this  interregnum  is  the 
more  observable,  as  probably  occasioned  by  illness  or  absence  from 
London,  because  stirring  political  occurrences  would  otherwise  have 
almost  certainly  engaged  his  mind  and  prolific  pen.  '  A  dangerous 
fever '  had  attacked  Francis  in  the  month  of  March,  and  though 
again  at  the  War  Office  on  the  30th  he  represents  himself  as  '  still 
very  ill  with  a  sore  throat.' — [J.  P.] 

To  proceed  with  the  letters. 

To  Major  Baggs.. 

War  Office,  March  30,  1771. 

Dear  Phil. — .  ...  I  have  had  a  dangerous  fever,  and  am  still 
very  ill  with  a  sore  throat.  Everything  I  see  and  hear  discourages 
me  even  from  hoping.  If  a  fair  opportunity  presented  itself  for 

the  East  Indies .       Stephen  l  left  London  without  one  word  of 

communication  with  me,  and  is  now  in  Sussex.  Jack,  I  hear,  plays 
the  fine  gentleman,  and  talks  of  marrying  an  heiress.  The  Lord 
Mayor  and  Oliver  are  very  much  at  their  ease  in  the  Tower. 
This  is  a  very  extraordinary  event,  but  I  do  not  perceive  that  it  has 
any  great  effect.  The  King  has  been  most  abominably  insulted  in 
returning  from  the  House.  I  never  saw  such  a  concourse  of  people, 
nor  such  outrageous  behaviour.  Our  opinions  very  much  incline  to 
the  expectations  of  war. 

The  House  of  Commons  seem  afraid  to  meddle  with  Wilkes.  The 
City  are  again  to  address  for  a  dissolution. 

Adieu. 

P.  F. 

To  Hacrabie. 

War  Office,  May  1,  1771. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  fear  I  load  you  with  postage  inland,  much 
more  than  my  letters  are  worth  ;  but  this  is  an  expense  you  must 
submit  to,  as  long  as  you  express  satisfaction  in  hearing  from  me. 
Long  before  this,  I  hope,  your  grievances  have  left  you — I  mean 
rheumatism  and  fever.  You  Americans  have  a  wonderful  turn  to 
pains  in  the  bones.  If  you  have  not  made  a  thousand  compliments 
to  Tubby  Francis  for  me  upon  his  change  of  condition,  you  deserve 
to  be  hanged.  I  have  used  that  honest  fellow  infamously  ;  but  really, 
between  ourselves,  I  cannot  prevail  upon  myself  to  talk  to  a  man  who 
makes  so  light  of  getting  large  provinces  into  his  possession.  For 
God's  sake  take  excellent  care  of  my  land  !  If  I  do  not  misunder- 


1  The  Rev.  Stephen  Baggs.     See  Pedigree. 


1771]  FAMILY  LETTERS.  261 

stand  you,  you  mean  that  it  must  take  care  of  itself.  I  will  either 
pay  the  money  to  your  father,  or  otherwise,  as  you  think  proper.  If 
war  had  gone  on,  something  might  perhaps  have  offered  for  you. 
But  have  courage,  we  shall  not  always  be  at  the  foot  of  the  ladder. 
I  need  not  be  at  the  toil  of  repeating  newspapers.  They  will  tell 
you  enough  of  the  feuds  among  patriots,  and  the  progress  of  faction. 
The  Committee  of  Privileges,1  made  their  report  yesterday  to  the 
House,  but  have  done  no  more.  Nothing  can  be  more  ridiculous 
and  disgraceful  both  to  the  Committee  and  to  the  House  than  this 
whole  business.  I  shall  not  wonder  at,  though  I  have  no  sufficient 
reason  to  expect,  a  dissolution  of  Parliament,  and  a  total  change  of 

hands   as   things  now   stand.     2    has    a    most  uncomfortable 

time  of  it.  Lord  Chatham  "is  to  move  to-morrow  for  an  address  to 
dissolve.  Lord  Halifax  is  either  dead  or  dying  :  if  he  should  survive 
he  is  to  quit  business.  Wilkes  will  probably  be  sheriff.  A  great 
event  has  happened  in  the  history  of  the  Macrabies.  I  have  taken 
a  little  neat  cottage  at  Fulham  for  the  summer.  Your  father's  letter 
I  dare  say  will  be  full  of  it.  We  go  on  Saturday.  I  saw  him  this 
morning  amazingly  well.  Your  nephew  is  a  most  glorious  animal, 
but  not  very  like  his  uncle.  Adieu. 

Yours,  P.  FEANCis.3 

To  Major  Baggs. 

London,  May  30,  1771. 

Dear  Phil. — My  wife  is  greatly  obliged  to  you  for  the  honey, 
which  I  expect  to  receive  shortly.  At  present  it  is  in  the  act  of 
performing  quarantine.  Rosenhagen,  I  hear,  is  returned  to  Lisle. 
How  he  contrived  to  reach  Lyons  is  to  me  inconceivable  ;  and  much 
more  so,  how  he  could  have  stretched  to  Gibraltar.4  Wilkes  and 
Home  are  at  open  war  in  the  newspapers.  Nothing  can  be  more 
contemptible,  in  my  own  opinion,  nor  less  interesting  than  the 
whole  of  their  correspondence.  Home's  malice  and  rancour  are 
mean  and  wretched  beyond  all  description.  He  seems  absolutely  to 


1  See  the  last  preceding  Junius  (April  22)  on  the  question  of  Privilege  of 
Parliament. 

2  Query,  the  King. 

3  Junius  of  the  same  day  (May  1)  '  does  not  expect  that  a  dissolution  of 
Parliament  will  check  corruption,  but  that  at  least  it  will  be  a  check  and 
terror  to  their  successors.' 

4  This  letter,  showing  that  Francis's  old  schoolfellow  Rosenhagen  must 
have  been  abroad  during  great  part  of  the  '  Junian  '  period,  affords  by  itself 
almost  sufficient  proof  that  he  could  have  had  no  part  in  the  composition 
of  the  letters. 


262  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

have  lost  his  understanding.  Rage  blinds  him,  and  I  really  suspect 
that  the  ministry  pay  him  for  what  he  does.  The  other  rogue 
stands  his  ground,  and  I  have  no  sort  of  doubt  that  he  will  be 
sheriff.  What  part  do  you  think  Bosenhagen  would  have  taken 
between  these  worthies  ? 

I  have  taken  a  little  tenement  about  four  miles  from  this  office, 
where  I  live  as  much  as  possible.  In  the  country  everything  pleases 
me  :  in  town  nothing. 

Tilghman  is  well.  He  leaves  us  in  September,  and  for  ever.  Fitz- 
patrick,  he,  and  I,  dine  together  to-day.  Whenever  we  meet,  we 
drink  your  health,  and  join  in  lamenting  the  condition  of  the  times. 
Adieu.  P.  F. 

A  letter  of  June  18,  1771,  from  a  servant,  announces 
to  Francis  that  his  father,  at  Bath,  *  was  yesterday  taken 
with  one  of  the  usual  paralytic  seizures ;  it  has  very 
much  affected  his  speech  ;  but  this  day  I  have  hopes  of 
his  surviving  this  attack.' 

From  several  preceding  letters,  and  from  his  fragment 
of  autobiography,  it  appears  that  Francis  was  at  this 
time  in  a  state  of  much  dejection  and  disappointment  as 
to  his  prospects.  His  pecuniary  loss  from  the  failure 
of  his  hopes  of  war  with  Spain  may  have  contributed. 
He  had  also,  in  combination  with  Calcraft,  fastened  his 
hopes  of  preferment  in  the  public  service  on  the  advent 
to  power  of  Lord  Chatham,  or  of  the  opposition  under 
some  other  leadership,  and  began  to  despair  of  the 
defeat  of  the  Tory  administration.  The  return  of  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  to  that  ministry,  June  11,  was  un- 
doubtedly an  untoward  indication  of  its  probable  stability. 
At  all  events  the  next  letter  shows  that  Francis  had  already 

*/ 

begun  to  fix  his  wishes  on  an  Indian  appointment. 

To  Major  Baggs,  69th  Regiment,  at  Gibraltar. 

War  Office,  June  25,  1771. 

Dear  Phil. — You  will  hardly  .believe  that  the  hint  I  threw  out 
about  the  East  Indies  related  to  myself.  The  idea  was  carried 


1771]  THOUGHTS  OF  INDIA.  263 

pretty  far,  but  circumstances  being  altered  [with,  respect  to  the  plan 
of  government  in  India,  that  affair  is  over,  and  must  never  be  men- 
tioned. For  the  next  three  years  I  am  likely  enough  to  remain  in 
my  present  state  of  uninteresting  indolence.  But  I  am  secure  of  a 
in  the  next 

Your  anxiety  about  politics  is  extraordinary  enough.  All  I  can 
say  is,  at  present  they  look  a  little  more  lively  than  they  have  done 
for  some  time  past.  Home,  I  think,  is  beaten  out  of  the  pit,  and 
everything  goes  swimmingly  for  Wilkes  and  Bull.  They  had  the 
whole  show  of  hands  for  them  yesterday  at  Guildhall,  arid  the  poll 
hitherto  greatly  in  their  favour.  The  numbers  last  night  stood  as 
follows  :  For  Wilkes,  296  ;  Bull,  276  ;  Kirkman,  45  ;  Plumbe,  34  ; 
Oliver,  28.  Yet  it  is  by  no  means  clear  that  Wilkes  will  ultimately 
carry  it.  The  above  numbers  are  nothing  compared  to  the  rest 
of  the  livery.  In  the  meantime  Wilkes  and  his  people  are  in  high 
spirits. 

The  Duke  of  Graffcon,  since  his  appointment  to  the  Privy  Seal, 
has  had  a  peppering  letter  from  Junius,1  who  promises  a  continuance 
of  his  correspondence  as  long  as  he  is  in  office.  I  will  send  you 
newspapers  whenever  an  opportunity  offers.  Of  changes  I  see  no 
prospect.  Wilkes  may  perhaps  have  the  pleasure  of  being  hanged 
before  his  shrievalty  is  expired.  The  City  have  resolved  .upon 
another  remonstrance.  The  weather  is  uncommonly  fine,  and 
promises  a  plentiful  harvest.  Fitzpatrick,  Tilman,  Gravier  and  I 
dined  yesterday  at  the  Queen's  Arms.  They  drank  immoderately  ; 
even  I,  who  drank  nothing  but  thimblefulls,  grew  intoxicated  at 
last.  Adieu.  I  will  write  to  you  as  often  as  occasions  of  doing 
it  without  expense  shall  offer.  For  this  you  must  pay.  The 
accounts  from  Bath  are  truly  melancholy.  I  expect  every  day  to 
hear  of  my  father's  death.  Adieu. 

Yours,  P.  F. 

War  Office,  JulyS,  1771- 

Dear  Phil. — I  wrote  to  you  about  a  week  ago  by  the  land  post, 
so  have  nothing  new  to  communicate,  beyond  what  you  will  find  in 
this  bundle  of  newspapers.  Wilkes,  I  think,,  is  more  firmly  upon  his 
legs  than  ever  he  was.2 

Yours  affectionately, 

P.  FKANCIS. 


1  '  To  his  Grace  tlie  Duke  of  Grafton,'  June  22,  1771. 
3  Junius  (July  9)  is  of  the  same  opinion :  '  My  zeal  for  the  King's  service, 
like  Mr.  Wilkes's  patriotism,  thrives  by  persecution.' 


2G4  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

In  July  1771,  occurs  the  spiteful  and  fencing  corre- 
spondence between  Junius  and  Home  Tooke.  The  letter 
to  which  the  following  refers  must  be  that  of  '  Junius  to 
the  Eeverend  Mr.  Home,'  July  24,  1771.  I  am  not  able 
to  explain  the  particular  course  of  reasoning  in  the 
writer's  mind  as  to  the  effect  of  the  proceeding  of  Junius, 
and  it  is  certainly  questionable  whether  it  would  have 
occurred  to  any  one  except  Junius.  himself. 

To  Major  Baggs. 

War  Office,  July  26,  1771. 

Dear  Phil. — I  have  never  missed  an  opportunity  of  writing  to  you, 
and  have  sent  you  horseloads  of  newspapers. 

Wilkes's  success  has  established  his  interest  in  the  City,  and  in  my 
opinion  he  is  in  a  higher  style  than  ever.  Junius  has  given  Home  a 
most  severe  correction.  The  best  on't  is,  that  Junius,  under  pretence 
of  writing  Home  &  private  letter,  makes  him  the  editor  of  the  grossest 
and  most  infamous  libel  that  ever  was  printed.  This  I  take  to  be  a 
coup  d'etat.  Wouldn't  you  laugh  if  you  saw  the  parson  in  the  pil- 
lory for  publishing  a  letter,  in  which  he  himself  is  virulently  abused  ? 
Home's  credit  is  very  low  indeed.  The  plan  for  the  City  is  to  have 
Crosby  Mayor  again  ;  but  the  livery  must  return  two  to  the  Court 
of  Aldermen.  Now,  the  way  is  to  return  one  Bridgen  with  Crosby. 
NB.  This  Bridgen  is  the  most  scurvy  rascal  in  the  City,  and  par- 
ticularly odious  to  the  aldermen.  It  is  not  doubted  that  Wilkes 
will  be  Mayor  the  year  following ;  otherwise  we  are  all  quiet.  To- 
morrow morning,  Godfrey,  Tilman,  another  gent  and  I  set  out  upon 
a  tour  through  Derbyshire,  and  propose  to  reach  Manchester.  I  wish 
you  were  of  the  party. 

I  am,  dear  Phil., 

Very  truly  yours, 

P.  F. 

A  somewhat  minute,  but  special,  instance  of  chronologi- 
cal correspondence  between  the  performances  of  Junius  and 
contemporary  events  in  the  life  of  Francis,  requires  now  to 
be  noted.  On  July  31, 1771,  Home  addresses  Junius  in 
an  elaborate  *  reply,'  intended  to  be  a  complete  summary 
of  the  controversy.  Junius  does  not  answer  this  until  the 


1771]  FRANCIS  AND  HORNE.  265 

13th  of  August — rather  a  long  interval  for  so  prompt  a 
combatant.  So,  at  least,  Home  thought ;  for  in  his 
rejoinder,  on  August  16,  he  says,  'I  congratulate  you,  Sir, 
on  the  recovery  of  your  wonted  style,  though  it  has  cost 
you  a  fortnight.'  If  Francis  was  Junius,  the  occurrence  of 
this  interval  of  a  fortnight  is  exactly  accounted  for  by  the 
dates  of  the  following  letters,  addressed  to  his  wife  at 
Fulham,  where  she  was  no  doubt  staying  with  her  father, 
Mr.  Macrabie. 

To  Mrs.  Francis,  Sandy  Lane,  Fulham. 

Derby,  Tuesday  even,  July  30,  1771. 

My  dearest  dearest  Betsy, — This  is  the  only  Christian-like  looking 
town  that  I  have  seen  since  I  left  London,  and  we  are  just  entered. 
Our  journey  has  been  as  prosperous  as  we  could  expect,  though  we 
have  seen  nothing  yet  but  the  bare  face  of  the  country.  The  Duchess 
of  Bedford  and  be  d — d  to  her,  would  not  let  us  see  Wooburn  Abbey, 
which  we  all  greatly  regret.  The  weather  has  been  perfectly 
favourable,  that  is  cool,  even  more  so  than  I  could  have  wished.  I 
generally  drive  the  chaise  two-thirds  of  each  stage,  as  my  companions 
like  riding,  so  that  I  have  variety  and  no  manner  of  fatigue.  To- 
morrow we  set  out  early  for  Chatsworth  and  the  Peak. 


Manchester,  Saturday  morning,  August  4,  1771. 

This  is  just  to  inform  you  that  we  arrived  here  yesterday  about  4. 
After  dinner  with  much  toil  we  found  out  Mr.  Clough's,  where  we 
all  supped,  and  I  lay  in  the  state  bed.  By  the  same  token  I  am  now 
writing  in  his  best  parlour.  Oh  !  I  wrote  to  you  from  Derby.  We 
have  been  all  through  that  county,  and  have  travelled  over  a  thou- 
sand mountains,  to  say  nothing  of  caverns  and  precipices.  But  to 
say  the  truth  everything  has  contributed,  to  make  it  a  pleasant 
journey.  These  good  folks  received  me  as  the  Jews  intend  to  do 
the  Messiah.  To-morrow  we  set  out  on  our  return.  Old  mother 
Clough  is  as  blind  as  a  horse  in  a  mill,  and  has  a  hand  like  a  curry- 
comb. The  girls  are  in  raptures.  And  so  deary,  adieu  !  Kiss  the 
children  heartily,  and  place  it  to  account  as  per  advice. 

Yours,  P.  FRANCIS. 


266  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

Friday,  Oxford  (August  10  ?). 

My  dearest  Betsy, — I  received  your  letter  upon  my  arrival  here 
last  night,  and  thank  you  very  heartily  for  making  it  so  copious. 
This  is  only  to  say  that  I  propose  to  have  the  happiness  of  seeing 
you  on  Sunday  night  (12th). 
Till  then,  dearest,  adieu  ! 

P.  F. 

These  letters  are  sealed  with  a  large  War  Office  seal. 
On  the  13th  (as  has  been  seen)  appeared  the  answer  to 
Home. 

To  Major  Baggs. 

War  Office,  August  20,  1771. 

Dear  Phil. — I  have  two  letters  from  you  from  Lisbon,  and  this 
very  morning  a  third  of  an  earlier  date  from  Gibraltar,  in  which  you 
give  me  notice  of  your  existence.  This  last  was  unnecessary,  as  I 
had  no  particular  reason  to  question  that  you  were  alive.  Some 
singular  ill-fortune  must  have  attended  my  correspondence,  for 
really  I  have  written  to  you  as  often  as  you  could  possibly  expect  or 
desire.  I  thank  you  for  your  very  seasonable  hint  about  J.  A.,1 
and  yet,  upon  my  honour,  I  do  not  recollect  that  I  have  anything  to 
reproach  myself  with  :  I  never  told  him  so  much  as  you  have  done 
— no,  not  by  the  most  distant  intimation,  viz.  my  reason  for  desiring 
that  translation.  You  are  deceived  in  regard  to  his  supposed  sim- 
plicity. I  wish  you  were  equally  mistaken  in  your  opinion  of  his 
discretion.  But  enough  :  we  shall  be  more  prudent  hereafter. 

Junius  and  Wilkes  seem  to  make  common  cause.  Poor  Home  is 
drubbed  till  he  screeches  for  mercy.  Never  was  there  such  a  letter 
as  Junius  has  nattered  him  with.  All  mankind  agree  that  it  is  his 
masterpiece,  and  now  I  hope  we  shall  never  hear  any  more  of 
them. 

We  have  no  alterations  of  any  kind.  I  send  you  newspapers  as 
often  as  I  can,  and  hope  to-morrow  to  send  you  a  great  bundle.  Of 
Stephen  I  hear  nothing.  Godfrey,  Tilman,  and,  I  returned  last 
Monday  from  our  grand  tour.  Tilman  takes  his  leave  of  us  in  a  few 
days  for  America,  and  for  ever.  My  wife  and  children  are  your 
humble  servants.  If  you  reproach  me  any  more  with  not  writing, 
you  are  an  ungrateful  demon  ;  this  is  the  fourth  which  you  have  not 
acknowledged. 

And  so  farewell ! 
P.  F. 

1  Allen  of  Lisbon.— [Mr.  Parkes.] 


1771]  LEGAL  KNOWLEDGE  OF  JUNIUS.  267 

The  last  letter  informs  his  correspondent,  Major 
Baggs,  of  the  proposed  departure  of  their  friend  Tilghman 
for  America,  after  a  year's  residence  in  England.  It  has 
been  suggested  (by  Mr.  Parkes)  that  this  young  man,  who 
was  a  zealous  law  student,  helped  Junius  in  getting  up 
the  legal  part  of  his  correspondence.  Junius  (as  himself 
says,  and  has  been  often  proved)  was  clearly  no  lawyer, 
but  with  a  considerable  smattering  of  law,  and  that, 
mainly,  of  the  '  law-student '  class — producing  theses, 
cleverly  put  together,  on  constitutional  questions.  Junius's 
destiny  was  rather  to  help  in  making  the  law  than  to 
explain  it.  But  I  see  not  much  proof  of  the  supposition 
as  to  Tilghman.1 

To  Major  Baggs. 

War  Office,  August  22,  1771. 

Dear  Phil.- — I  wrote  to  you  last  Tuesday  very  fully  by  the  common 
post,  as  I  have  done  several  times,  though  you  continue  to  reproach 
me  with  neglect.  I  now  take  the  opportunity  of  Lieutenant  Hoy 
of  the  39th  to  send  you  newspapers.  You  will  find  the  famous 
Junius  among  them,  but  you  ought  to  read  Home's  letter  first. 

1  One  instance  however  may  be  quoted.  In  Junius  to  Lord  Mansfield,' 
Nov.  15,  1770,  occurs  the  following  fierce  attack  on  that  judge  for  the  'doc- 
trine which  he  delivered  in  Lord  Grosvenor's  cause  : — 

'  An  action  for  crim.  con.  being  brought  by  a  peer  against  a  prince  of  the 
blood,  you  were  daring  enough  to  tell  the  judge,  that,  in  fixing  the  dama- 
ges, they  were  to  pay  no  regard  to  the  quality  or  fortune  of  the  parties :  that 
it  was  an  action  between  A  and  B ;  that  they  were  to  consider  the  offence  in 
a  moral  light  only,  and  give  no  greater  damages  to  a  peer  of  the  realm  than 
to  the  meanest  mechanic.' 

Richard  Tilghman,  hi  his  student's  note-book,  took  down  the  following 
as  Lord  Mansfield's  words  : — 

'  As  to  question  of  damages,  many  rules  can't  be  here  laid  down.  We 
know  not  the  persons  of  plaintiff  or  defendant.  Measure  of  damages  should 
not  be  ascertained  by  rank  of  plaintiff  or  defendant.  There  justice  is 
blind.  Injury  is  as  great  if  done  to  bed  of  commoner,  as  if  done  to  bed  of 
peer.  Rank  of  parties  out  of  the  case.  In  civil  actions  jury  are  not 
inflicting  fines.' 

The  American  relative  who  kindly  furnished  Mr.  Parkes  with  this 
extract  (Mr.  W.  M.  Tilghman),  says  that  R.  Tilghman  also  noted  carefully 
in  the  same  book  the  cases  of  R.  v.  Almon  and  R.  v.  Woodf  all. 


268  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

I  cannot  say  I  am  much  edified  with  your  trip  to  Lisbon,  and 
leaving  the  regiment  without  a  field  officer — not  that  I  care  a  farthing 
about  the  discipline.  Tihnan,  I  hear,  goes  for  his  native  country  on 
Saturday.  I  am  to  eat  my  parting  dinner  with  him  to-day.  Adieu. 

P.  F. 

To  Macrabie. 

War  Office,  September  4,  1771. 

My  dear  Mac. — I  have  duly  received  all  your  letters,  though  I 
have  them  not  before  me  to  acknowledge  them  by  the  dates.  I  really 
have  scarce  time  to  perform  the  common  offices  of  nature ;  and  if 
writing  to  my  best  friend  were  as  natural  to  me  as  eating  or  sleep 
I  must  either  do  it  at  unseasonable  hours,  and  in  a  slovenly  manner, 
or  give  it  up  entirely.  Perhaps  it  will  be  some  amends  to  you  to 
say  that  you  live  in  my  thoughts.  I  see  how  uncomfortable  your 
undecided  situation  must  be,  but  upon  this  subject  it  is  impossible 
for  me  to  say  anything  to  the  purpose.  If  you  could  form  such 
commercial  connexions  in  North  America  as  would  enable  you  to 
act  upon  your  own  account,  I  should  think  it  not  impracticable  to 
raise  a  sum  of  money  for  you  on  this  side,  to  begin  upon.  Your 
father's  letter,  which  goes  herewith,  will  naturally  be  filled  with 
the  departure  of  our  good  friend  Tilman.  He  breakfasted  with  me 
for  the  last  time,  Wednesday  the  28th  of  last  month,  and  was  to 
get  into  his  postchaise  at  four  o'clock  that  afternoon.  Our  parting 
was  no  other  than  if  we  were  to  dine  together  the  day  following  ; 
yet  I  shall  probably  never  see  him  again.  I  do  not  think  that  as 
to  the  choice  of  friends  or  companions,  it  is  an  easy  matter  either 
to  please  my  fancy  or  to  satisfy  my  judgment.  The  villain  suc- 
ceeded in  both  completely ;  and  now  I  ought  to  hate  him  heartily 
for  giving  me  such  cause  of  regret  as  will  last  as  long  as  I  live. 
He  is  to  write  to  me  constantly,  but,  at  this  distance  and  with  this 
prospect,  it  will  be  the  dead  letter,  which  he  has  been  studying  so 
long.  You  are  fortunate  in  waiting  for  his  return  to  America.  We 
are  all  pretty  quiet  here,  but  it  seems  to  me  rather  an  anxious  pause 
or  interval  in  contention,  than  the  tranquil  security  of  a  wise  and 
firm  government.  Tilman  is  loaded  with  politics  and  can  explain 
everything  as  well  as  I  can.  I  begin  now  to  think  that  some 
discovery  will  be  made  about  Portsmouth  fire.  The  Duke  of 
Gloucester  is  gone  to  Lisbon. 

Tihnan  will  tell  you  wonders  of  my  children,  particularly  your 
nephew. 

Adieu,  adieu  ! 

P.  FRANCIS. 


1771]  RICHARD  TILGHMAN.  269 

Tilghman  accordingly  returned  to  America :  destined 
to  cross  the  Atlantic  eastward  once  more  (as  we  shall 
learn  in  the  course  of  this  memoir)  in  order  to  try  his 
fortune  along  with  Francis  in  India. 

War  Office,  December  4,  1771. 

My  dear  Mac. — Go  directly  to  Tilman,  and  ask  him  what  news. 
Do  you  and  he  ever  meet  privately,  that  is,  at  a  proper  distance 
from  Quakers,  Indians,  and  mad  Americans  ?  If  you  do,  drink  my 
health  very  cordially.  You  may  let  the  Colonel — alias  broken 
Lieutenant — be  of  the  party,  but  none  of  the  profane.  The  rogue 
loves  claret.  Since  Tilman  arrived  among  you,  I  hope  you  found 
the  climate  was  improved.  We  used  to  make  it  out  very  tolerably 
together.  Do  tell  me  a  little  whether  you  are  determined  to  take 
root  in  America,  or  ever  to  be  transported  home  again  ?  By  the 
time  you  get  back  you  will  have  a  fine  crop  of  nephews  and  nieces. 
Little  Philip  is  a  hero  in  every  sense  of  the  word.  For  God's  sake 
pardon  my  not  writing  any  more  !  I  am  jaded  to  death.  The 
Irish  Parliament  have  struck  off  Jerry  Dyson's  pension.  The  Duke 
of  Cumberland  and  his  Duchess  are  returned,  and  are  forbidden  the 
court.1  But  it  is  supposed  all  this  will  soon  be  made  up. 

Adieu,  my  dearest  friend  ! 

Yours,  P.  FRANCIS. 

To  Major  Baggs. 

War  Office,  December  17,  1771. 

Dear  Phil. — I  am  going  to  Bath  to-morrow,  and  shall  be  absent 
three  weeks.  Tilman  arrived  at  Philadelphia  about  the  middle  of 
October.  I  have  a  letter  from  him,  dated  November  10.  I  am  a 
man  insulated  :  you  and  he,  and  Fitzpatrick  and  Bosenhagen,  are  all 
equally  lost  to  me.  Stephen  is  cursing  his  fate  at  Ongar  in  Essex. 
Fuimus  Troes.  Stopford  is  at  Bath,  but  he  is  too  melancholy  for  me. 
By  way  of  news,  I  can  only  say  that  the  Irish  House  of  Commons 
have  made  a  most  extraordinary  stand  against  Lord  Townshend, 
and  beat  him  in  several  questions,  and  struck  off  Jerry  Dyson's 
pension.  But  he  has  obtained  the  supplies,  and  provided  he  travels 
through  the  session,  minds  but  little  the  disgrace  and  loss  of  repu- 
tation. The  court  seems  as  hostile  as  possible  to  the  Duke  of 
Cumberland  and  his  lady.  Opposition  have  done  nothing  but  play 
the  fool,  and  I  think  are  universally  desponding.  Wilkes  meditates 
an  attack  upon  the  House  of  Lords.  But  all  that  is  a  good  deal 


See  '  Miscellaneous  Letters,'  102,  104. 


270  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1771 

below  par.  Did  I  tell  you  that  Hassard,  having  got  his  rank  in 
India,  is  an  old  Major,  and  within  two  of  being  Lieu  tenant- Colonel  ? 
Our  officers  all  agree  in  cursing  that  service,  and  most  of  them 
come  home  beggars. 

I  have  strange  projects  in  my  head.  I  have  got  five  children 
you  may  remember,  and  in  a  few  months  shall  have  a  sixth.  This 
makes  a  man  look  serious,  bon  gre  mal  gre.  Adieu. 

P.  F. 

Francis  left  for  Bath  accordingly.  And  no  Junius 
appears  from  November  28,  1771,  to  January  21,  1772; 
no  '  miscellaneous '  letter  between  that  of  Jumper,  De- 
cember 4,  1771,  and  the  first  of  Veteran,  January  28, 
1772. 

Francis's  reception  at  Bath  was  of  a  very  different 
character  from  that  of  former  Christmas  holidays.  The 
sudden  decay  of  his  father's  health  had  put  an  end  to 
the  cardplaying  and  convivial  parties  which  had  hitherto 
greeted  the  season ;  and  the  allusions  to  an  enforced 
economy  are  plain  enough  in  his  domestic  letters. 

Bath,  December  23,  1771. 

My  dearest  Wife, — I  have  got  your  two  letters  this  morning,  and 
pity  you  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart.  This  bleeding  I  hope  will 
have  a  good  effect.  Let  me  know  constantly  how  you  go  on.  There 
is  nothing  in  this  place  to  give  me  the  smallest  pleas  are.  My  father 
may  hold  it  out  for  years  in  this  deplorable  condition,  or  he  may  die 
to-morrow.  Mr.  D'Oyly  has  resigned;  but  of  this  say  nothing. 
In  short  I  am  a  little  heartsick.  Pray  tell  my  dear  girls  that  I  am 
infinitely  proud  of  their  behaviour.  I  shall  write  again  to-morrow. 
And  so  for  the  present  farewell. 

Yours,  yours, 
P.  F. 

Bath,  December  24,  1771. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — It  is  not  that  I  have  anything  to  -add  to  my 
letter  of  yesterday,  but  a  letter  is  comfort  to  you,  and  I  am  afraid 
you  want  it.  My  father  was  well  enough  this  morning  to  go  abroad 
in  a  chaise.  But  he  relapses  frequently,  and  is  truly  in  a  deplorable 
condition.  He  is  hardly  sensible  of  my  being  here ;  and  if  I  did 
not  live  cheap,  and  did  not  expect  Mr.  Godfrey,  I  would  return  many 


1772]  CONCLUSION  OF  JUNIUS.  271 

days  sooner  than  I  intended.  I  have  dined  but  once  at  a  tavern,  and 
have  never  supped  out.  I  am  very  uneasy  about  the  dear  children, 
and  much  more  so  about  you.  It  is  hard  that  you  should  have  so 
unpleasant  a  Christmas  ;  but  have  a  good  heart,  and  I'll  take  care 
you  shall  have  a  merry  new  year.  I  flatter  myself  your  brother 
will  be  in  London  in  a  fortnight.  I  was  invited  to  dine  to-day 
with  a  riotous  party,  but  did  not  like  it,  so  dine  at  home  alone  ;  and 
Mrs.  Walsh  has  sent  me  a  ticket  for  a  concert :  so  I  take  my  music 
and  my  nourishment  gratis.  I  am  very  impatient  to  hear  what 
Lord  Barrington  has  determined  about  the  War  Office.  I  neither 
expect  nor  desire  any  alteration  in  my  own  situation.  Very  likely  Mr. 
Bradshaw  may  succeed.  I  am  afraid  my  poor  friend  Walsh  is  very 
unhappy.  She  has  represented  their  melancholy  state  to  me  with 
tears,  and  would  gladly  retire  to  any  farm  to  avoid  Bath.  But  this 
is  impossible.  I  have  just  swallowed  an  excellent  fowl  and  roast 
chine,  and  now  drink  your  health,  and  all  that's  dear  to  us  at  Ful- 
ham. 

And  so,  Honesty,  adieu  ! 

P.P. 

In  January,  Francis  returns  to  his  office,  and  the  first 
fruits  of  his  return  are  the  celebrated  letters  of  January  21 
to  Lord  Mansfield,  and  without  date  to  Lord  Camden, 
which  conclude  the  series  of  Junius  ;  letters  of  which  the 
composition  must  have  cost  the  writer  an  infinity  of  labour, 
and  which  show  a  considerable  amount  of  law  research  all 
to  no  purpose — for  Junius  fails  to  prove  his  charge  of  il- 
legality against  Lord  Mansfield  in  admitting  Eyre  to  bail. 
'  He  was  egregiously  in  the  wrong,'  says  Lord  Campbell 
('Lives  of  the  Chief  Justices,'  ii.  491),  '  clearly  showing 
that  he  was  not  a  lawyer,  his  mistakes  not  being  made  for 
disguises,  but  palpably  proceeding  from  an  ignorant  man 
affecting  knowledge.' 

On  this  subject  the  following  MS.  note  was  discovered 
by  Mr.  Parkes  in  the  page  of  contents  of  vol.  i.  of  Heron's 
edition  of  '  Junius,'  possessed  by  Francis ;  but  Mr. 
Parkes  was  not  quite  sure  whether  the  handwriting  is 
that  of  Francis  himself. 


272  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

Essay,  p.  99 'a  great  lawyer'  is  too  large  a  term  nor  warranted 

by  the  real  amount  &  quality  of  Junius's  legal  knowledge  as  displayed 
in  these  letters.  Junius  was  a  good  lawyer,  a  good  constitutional 
lawyer  certainly  ;  but  tho'  the  different  important  points  of  law, 
discussed  evidently  on  the  spur  of  the  (public)  occasion  in  these 
letters  are  pressed  &  argued  with  great  ability,  they,  after  all,  seem 
to  be  treated  in  the  style  &.tone  rather  of  a  well  informed  consti- 
tutionist,  than  of  a  PROFESSIONAL  man.  Further,  Junius  may  have  had 
assistance,  from  professional  sources  of  very  confidential  friends,  on 
points  more  exclusively  &  technically  legal,  of  which  he  could 
avail  himself  sufficiently  for  his  purpose, 'without  at  all  committing 
himself  or  his  secret  to  their  enquiries  or  suspicions.  This  mistaken 
and  false  idea  of  the  Author  of  these  letters  being  '  a  GREAT  Lawyer ' 
is  evidently  that  which  has  led  Mr.  Heron,  in  the  result  of  his  ex- 
amination as  to  '  who  was  not  and  who  was  Junius,'  to  decide  in 
favour  of  Lord  Ashburtou ;  insomuch  that  it  is  plain  that  but  for 
that  idea  so  much  dwelt  upon,  and  so  strongly  entertained,  Lord 
Ashburton's  pretensions  would  have  been  rejected  as  decidedly  as 
those  of  the  other  claimants.1 

The  so-called  author's  edition  of  the  '  Letters  of  Junius  ' 
was  published  by  Woodfall  in  1772.  It  is  only  mentioned 
here  to  notice  that  the  proof-sheets,  with  numerous  cor- 
rections for  the  press,  exist  among  the  Woodfall  papers. 
These  corrections  appear  to  be  in  the  same  peculiar 
feigned  handwriting  which  characterises  the  'Private 
Letters '  to  Woodfall. 

Contemporaneously  with  the  cessation  of  the  letters  of 
Junius,  we  arrive  at  the  turning  point  in  the  history  of 
Francis's  life ;  the  series  of  events  which  led  to  his  resig- 
nation of  his  post  of '  chief  clerk  '  (next  below  the  Deputy- 
Secretary  in  official  rank)  at  the  War  Office. 

The  domestic  letters  of  Junius,  which  have  been  thus 
far  printed,  give  little  or  no  information  as  to  the  charac- 
ter of  the  relations  between  himself  and  the  chief  of  his 
department  from  1766,  Lord  Barrington.  That  nobleman 
is  reputed  to  have  been  a  cold  and  reserved  man,  not  pos- 

1  The  italics  are  underscored  in  the  original. 


1772]  CHANGES  IN  THE  WAK  OFFICE.  273 

sessed  of  much  popularity  among  his  subordinates.  His 
political  history  is  given  with  abundance  of  spite,  but  no 
marked  misrepresentation,  in  the  letter  of  Nemesis  to  the 
« Public  Advertiser '  ('  Miscell.,'  May  12, 1772).  In  politics 
he  took  no  leading  part,  nor  was  attached  to  any  eminent 
party  leader :  he  was,  as  a  relation  described  him,  '  purely 
and  consistently  one  of  the  King's  friends.'  According  to 
Mr.  Parkes's  estimate  of  his  abilities, '  he  was  not  distin- 
guished by  any  talent  in  literary  and  epistolary  composi- 
tion, being  inferior  also  in  grammatical  expression.'  Mr. 
Parkes  adds  (but  does  not  give  his  authority)  that 
Francis  drafted  and  wrote  several  of  the  Viscount's  letters, 
published  by  his  son,  Bishop  Barrington,  especially  the 
excellent  letter  on  the  subject  of  military  commissions.1 
But  however  little  there  may  have  been  in  common  between 
Lord  Barrington  and  his  aspiring  subordinate,  there  is  no 
evidence  of  any  quarrel  between  them,  until  the  appoint- 
ment by  Lord  Barrington  of  Antony  Chamier  to  the  post 
of  Deputy-Secretary  at  War,  in  the  month  of  January 
1772. 

The  following  were  the  changes  which  took  place  in 
the  War  Office  about  this  time,  as  appears  from  its  records. 
In  the  beginning  of  that  year  Christopher  D'Oyly  was 
Deputy-Secretary  at  War  (salary  400/.  a  year),  and  Fran- 
cis '  first  clerk.'  The  post  of  first  clerk,  it  is  thought,  must 
have  been  created  for  Francis,  as  Gilbert  Elliot,  '  chief 
clerk,'  and  next  to  the  Deputy-Secretary  in  1757,  was  still 

1  The  editor  of  Bohn's  '  Junius '  gives  an  amusing- extract  from  a  letter  of 
Lord  Barrington  (to  Sir  Andrew  Mitchell,  at  Berlin,  in  1761);  showing  his 
own  very  modest  estimate  of  his  abilities :  '  The  same  strange  fortune  which 
made  me  Secretary  at  "War  five  years  and  a  half  ago,  has  made  me  Chancellor 
of  the  Exchequer '  (under  Lord  Bute).  (  It  may  perhaps  at  last  make  me 
Pope.  I  think  I  am  equally  fit  to  be  at  the  head  of  the  Church  as  of  the 
Exchequer.  My  reason  tells  me  it  would  have  been  more  proper  to  have 
given  me  an  employment  of  less  consequence  when  I  was  removed  from  the 
War  Office  ;  but  no  man  knows  what  is  good  for  him.' — Vol.  ii.  p.  412. 
VOL.  I.  >E 


274  MEMOIRS   OF    SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

senior  among  the  clerks,  and  next  man  under  Francis,  in 
1772.  On  January  21, 1772,  Anthony  Chamier  is  gazetted 
Deputy-Secretary,  vice  D'Oyly,  who  is  said  in  the  '  Annual 
Eegister'  to  have  resigned.  On  Francis's  resignation 
(March  1772),  he  was  succeeded  by  Lewis  as  l  first  clerk,' 
who  afterwards  became  Deputy-Secretary ;  when  the  first 
clerkship  was  abolished. 

I  cannot  explain  the  real  cause  and  bearing  of  these 
proceedings  from  the  papers  before  me.  They  seem  to 
me  to  have  been  studiously  mystified  by  Francis.  How  far 
his  retirement  from  office  was  voluntary,  how  far  the  re- 
sult of  measures  taken  by  Lord  Harrington  Which  he  con- 
ceived dishonourable  to  him,  it  does  not  appear  to  me 
possible  to  say.  Never,  certainly,  was  a  little  revolution 
in  a  public  office  which  has  caused  so  much  of  perplexity 
to  after  ages.  The  first  announcement  of  the  rupture 
between  Lord  Barrington  and  his  subordinates  is  con- 
tained in  the  following  letter  of  D'Oyly  to  Francis  :— 

Charles  Street,  December  21,  1771. 

This  morning,  my  dear  Francis,  I  desired  Lord  Harrington's  per- 
mission to  retire  from  the  War  Office.  My  request  was  readily  and, 
which  is  mortifying,  without  one  civil  speech,  granted.  I  am  per- 
suaded wheneveryou  please  you  may  obtain  the  same  permission  on  as 
easy  terms.  He  mentioned  Smith  as  the  proper  successor,  hut  upon 
my  saying  I  believed  he  would  not  like  the  place  he  instantly  took 
to  his  friend  Bradshaw,  and  in  full  possession  of  that  idea  I  left  him. 
He  afterwards  came  in  to  my  room  about  some  trifling  matter,  and 
finding  Colonel  Boy  there,  soon  went  off — what  would  I  not  give  to 
settle  a  certain  point !  Adieu. 

I  am,  and  never  can  be  otherwise  than, 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

C.  D'OYLY. 

The  facts — or  at  least  the  version  of  them  which  it 
suited  Francis  at  this  time  to  put  forward — are  next 
detailed  by  him  in  the  following  letter  (extract)  to  Major 
Baggs : — 


1772]  CHANGES  IN  THE  WAR  OFFICE.  275 

War  Office,  January  24,  1772. 

You  will  have  heard  that  Mr.  D'Oyly  has  resigned  his  employment. 
He  did  it  while  I  was  at  Bath.  Immediately  upon  my  return,  my 
Lord  Barrington  was  so  good  as  to  make  me  the  offer,  with  many 
obliging  and  friendly  expressions.  I  had,  however,  solid  reasons  for 
declining  the  offer,  and  Mr.  Anthony  Chamier  is  appointed.  All 
this  I  should  be  glad  you  would  communicate  to  anybody  that  is 
willing  to  hear  it. 

I  have  schemes  floating  in  my  mind  about  a  certain  six  months' 
voyage,  which  perhaps  are  not  quite  out  of  the  cards,  and  that's  all. 
If  it  succeeds,  you  shall  hear  more,  but  it  will  not  bear  writing  about. 
I  have  just  called  at  Martin's  house:  his  son  is  in  Shropshire.  I  hear 
from  good  authority  the  Princess  Dowager  cannot  last  for  many 
days.  Farewell ! 

P.  F. 

Next  we  have  the  following  letter  (extract)  from  Lord 
Barrington  to  Francis : — 

Cavendish  Square,  February  26,  1772. 

Dear  Sir,-=— Mr.  Marsh  has  desired  to  remain  where  he  is :  it  will 
therefore  be  necessary  that  I  should  look  out  for  a  first  clerk  now  a 
stranger  to  the  office.  I  came  late  to-day  thither,  which  prevented 
my  telling  you  my  present  plan,  which  Mr.  Chamier  will  com- 
municate. The  matter  will  soon  be  known  to  so  many  persons 
that  it  cannot  remain  a  secret ;  I  must  therefore  remind  you  of  the 
letter  I  mentioned  to  you  at  my  house.  I  hope  you  will  be  able  to 
compose  it  so  as  to  answer  my  wish  without  any  inconvenience  or 
detriment  to  yourself.  I  have  no  objection  to  your  mentioning 
any  of  those  things  which  have  given  you  uneasiness  heretofore,  if 
you  add  (what  I  hope  you  may  add  with  sincerity)  that  I  have 
since  made  you  easy  as  to  those  points.  It  will  be  absolutely  neces- 
sary that  I  should  tell  some  few  persons  the  occasion  of  my  losing 
you,  and  I  had  much  rather  do  it  in  your  words  than  mine. 
I  am  ever,  dear  Sir,  most  faithfully  yours, 

BARRINGTON. 

The  story  is  simply  told  in  the  note  to  Bohn's  '  Junius,' 
ii.  392,  that  '  Chamier  was  successor  in  the  War  Office 
to  Mr.  D'Oyly,  who  was  discarded  to  make  room  for  him.' 
D'Oyly  was  the  personal  friend  of  Francis.  But  whether 
the  indignation  of  Francis  was  really  occasioned  by  any 

T    2 


276  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

slight  to  D'Oyly,  or  by  the  slight  to  himself  in  not  being 
appointed  D'Oyly's  successor,  remains,  as  far  as  I  can  trace 
the  details,  uncertain.1 

The  intense  fury  into  which  Junius  (not  by  that  name, 
of  which  he  carefully  avoided  the  use  in  this  part  of  his 
performances)  lashed  himself  as  to  this  matter  is  well 
known  to  his  readers.  All  his  dignity,  all  his  power  of 
keen  anatomising  sarcasm,  all  his  caustic  elegance  of 
language,  all  the  qualities  which  make  him  a  classical 
author,  desert  him  on  this  occasion.  Mere  brutal  abuse 
becomes  the  substitute.  The  letters  of  Veteran  to  Lord 

1  Thft  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  January  10, 1772  (quoted  by  Mr.  Croker  in 
his  article  on  Jttnius,  'Quarterly  Review/  vol.  xc.)  says,  evidently  under  the 
inspiration  of  Francis  himself :  * .  .  .  D'Oyly  has  resigned.  .  .  .  The  Deputy- 
Secretary's  place,  being  a  mere  clerkship  of  400/.  a  year,  could  neither  in 
advantage  nor  honour  be  worth  holding  by  a  man  in  the  station  and  circum- 
stances of  a  gentleman  .'  Therefore,  the  author  proceeds,  it  was  given  to 
Bradshaw — '  the  cream-coloured  Bradshaw '  of  Junius — to  be  held  as  a 
temporary  position.  Again,  when  an  attack  was  made  in  a  meeting  at  the 
India  House  on  the  appointment  of  the  three  Commissioners  to  Bengal 
(February  2,  1774),  Francis  was  rather  disrespectfully  treated  as  '  a  clerk 
in  the  War  Office.'  The  '  Public  Advertiser  '  of  the  following  day  contains 
the  following  paragraph  : — 

'In  justice  to  Mr.  Francis,  whose  name  was  mentioned  in  our  paper  of 
yesterday,  it  ought  to  be  observed  that  he  resigned  his  place  of  First  Clerk 
in  the  War  Office  a  year  and  half  before  he  was  appointed  by  Parliament  to 
be  one  of  the  council  of  Bengal ;  consequently  he  was  not  taken  out  -of  the 
War  Office  to  be  sent  to  India.  He  at  the  same  time  declined  the  place  of 
Deputy-Secretary  at  War,  which  was  offered  to  him  in  the  handsomest  and 
most  friendly  manner;  and  it  is  well  known  that  his  conduct,  in  both 
instances,  was  founded  upon  honourable  and  disinterested  motives.' 

This  curious  paragraph,  observes  Mr.  Parkes,  '  must  have  emanated  from 
Francis  himself,  either  directly  to  Woodfall,  or  perhaps  through  a  third 
person  and  common  friend.  It  is  consistent  with  his  private  letters  in 
1771-2,  with  his  fragment  of  autobiography,  and  his  declaration  in  Parlia- 
ment of  his  relations  with  Lord  Barrington.  The  paragraph  may  be  an 
amende  honorable  to  the  noble  Viscount.  Still  there  is  a  latent  mystery, 
whether  bona  fide  the  Deputy-Secretaryship  ever  was  offered  him,  or,  if 
offered,  with  such  conditions  that  Francis  could  not  honourably  accept  it ; 
whether  Calcraft  urged  Francis's  refusal  of  it,  with  promises  of  money  and  a 
seat  in  Parliament.  '  Does  it  not  appear,  on  the  whole,  that  Junius  (sup- 
posing Francis  Junius)  was  intent  on  securing  his  retreat?  ' — [J.  PARKES.] 


1772]  ANTHONY  CHAMIER.  277 

Barrington  ('  Miscellaneous,'  January  28  to  March  10, 
1772,  and  the  private  letters  to  Woodfall,  Nos.  52  and  53) 
are  specimens  of  vulgar  ferocity,  as  discreditable  to  the 
writer's  intellectual  power  as  to  his  self-respect  and  man- 
liness of  character.  As  to  the  attacks  on  Anthony 
Chamier,  and  the  real  history  and  merits  of  that  well- 
abused  gentleman  himself,  I  find  among  Mr.  Parkes's 
papers  a  memorandum  which  it  will  be  convenient  to 
insert  in  this  place. 

These  special  and  severe  attacks  on  Chamier  personally,  as  well 
as  on  his  patron  Lord  Barrington,  must  have  originated  in  some  in- 
dividual disappointment  or  personal  interest  of  the  writer  (Junius). 
Anthony  Chamier  was  not  the  vulgar  or  disreputable  character  the 
anonymous  Veteran  described.  He  was  the  descendant  of  the  well- 
known  Protestant  divine,  Daniel  Chamier,  Minister  of  the  Reformed 
Church  of  France,  one  of  those  earnest  indomitable  early  opponents 
of  the  Church  of  Borne  who  fought  and  died  for  the  Reformation. 
On  the  Revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes,  the  grandson  (Daniel 
Chamier,  also  a  French  minister),  in  1691,  sought  refuge  in  Eng- 
land, officiating  in  the  several  French  Protestant  churches  of  London  ; 
first  in  the  Chapel  in  Glasshouse  Street,  Golden  Square,  and  lastly 
elected  Minister  of  the  Walloon  Church  in  Threadneedle  Street. 
Anthony  Chamier  was  the  grandson  of  the  latter  minister,  born  on 
October  6, 1725,  and  baptised  at  the  same  Walloon  Chapel  on  the 
19th  of  the  same  month.  He  received  the  moral  and  superior  edu- 
cation which  it  is  known  was  invariably  and  carefully  bestowed 
on  the  children  of  the  refugee  families,  and  throughout  his  private 
and  public  life  he  justly  enjoyed  an  irreproachable  character. 
Anthony  Chamier  was  early  in  life  on  the  Stock  Exchange.  He 
married  a  sister  of  Mr.  Bradshaw,  who,  from  an  under- clerkship 
in  the  War  Office,  became  successively  private  secretary  to  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  and  ultimately  a  joint-secretary  of  the  Trea- 
sury during  the  Chatham  and  Grafton  administrations.  By 
Bradshaw's  interest  Chamier  obtained  a  secretaryship  in  the 
Admiralty.  Junius,  two  years  before  Charmer's  change  from  that 
department  as  D'Oyly's  successor  in  the  War  Office,  had  sarcastically 
mentioned  Chamier  and  his  future  wife,  Miss  Bradshaw,  in  the 
miscellaneous  letter  under  the  signature  of  Domitian  (December  24, 
1770),  describing  Chamier  as  one  of  '  some  capital  acquisitions  '  of 
the  Grafton  Ministry  consequent  on  the  retirement  of  Lord  Wey- 


278  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

mouth,  replaced  by  Lord  Sandwich  in  the  Admiralty.  Domitian 
speaks  of  Chamier  as  '  that  well-educated,  genteel  young  broker, 
Mr.  Chamier  ; '  and  that  first  preferment  Domitian  further  describes. 
Therefore  Francis  must  have  well  known  the  subject  of  his  abuse  in 
the  letters  signed  Teferan  in  February  and  March  1772.  No  man 
could  have  indulged  in  the  gross  personalities  against  Chamier  in 
these  latter  anonymous  letters  without  some  adequate  cause  and 
motives.  Mr.  Anthony  Chamier  was  a  highly  respectable,  agreeable 
and  accomplished  man ;  in  age,  fifteen  years  senior  of  Francis. 
Chamier  was  an  original  member,  in  1764,  of  Johnson's  Literary 
Club  of  ten  members,  and  therefore  the  social  selected  companion  of 
the  great  lexicographer,  and  of  Burke,  Nugent,  Beauclerk,  Langton, 
Goldsmith,  and  Sir  John  Hawkins ;  and  was  elected  a  Fellow  of  the 
Royal  Society.  Boswell  narrates  that  in  the  Scotch  tour,  Johnson 
in  his  idea  of  the  members  of  the  club  for  a  St.  Andrew's  Univer- 
sity designated  Chamier  for  the  chair  of  '  commercial  politics.' 
Chamier  had  a  country-house  at  Streatham,  near  Epsom,  and  it  was 
to  this  retreat  that  Johnson  came  during  his  morbid  seizures,  and 
4where  he  composed  one  of  his  celebrated  prayers. 

Mr.  Chamier,  in  1775,  was  appointed  Under- Secretary  of  State  for 
the  Southern  Department,  under  Lord  Wentworth,  and  was  returned 
to  Parliament  in  the  same  year  for  the  borough  of  Tamworth  ;  and 
he  continued  in  Parliament  for  the  same  borough  till  his  death  in 
October  1 780. » 


1  There  is  an  unmistakable  observation  from  a  close  and  critical  reading 
of  the  Letters  of  Junius,  and  such  of  the  '  Miscellaneous  Letters  '  as  are  un- 
questionably authentic  by  the  same  writer :  this  observation  or  conclusion 
is,  that  Junius  must  not  only  have  been  individually  and  personally  well 
informed  of  documents  and  proceedings  in  the  War  Office,  but  that  he  had 
a  full  and  immediate  knowledge  of  the  secondary  and  ordinary  acts  of  the 
department.  This  is  not  only  an  indisputable  fact,  as  any  reader  may 
detect  if  he  will  patiently  note  manifold  and  striking  proofs,  but  the  cautious 
and  peculiar  manner  in  which  Junius  reveals  the  proceedings  in  the  War 
Office,  and  comments  on  its  acts,  is  a  transparent  corroboration.  In  the  earlier 
'Miscellaneous  Letters,'  in  which  he  frequently  changes  his  anonymous 
signatures,  he  is  less  careful  of  betraying  his  knowledge  of  or  connection 
with  the  War  Office.  In  the  large  body  of  letters  under  the  single 
signature  of  Junius  his  fears  of  detection  increase,  with  a  corresponding 
increased  caution.  Under  that  signature  he  speaks  of '  having  been  informed,' 
and  of  reasons  why  his  allegations  must  be  true. 

When  afterwards  some  circumstances  induced  Junius  more  distinctly  and 
virulently  to  attack  Lord  Barrington,  he  most  expressly  charges  Woodfall  to 
keep  the  identity  of  himself  (as  Junius)  a  profound  secret.  The  writer 


1772]  FRANCIS  LEAVES  THE  WAR  OFFICE.  279 

The  series  regarding  this  transaction  concludes  with 
the  letters  of  Veteran  to  the  « Public  Advertiser  '  ('  Mis- 
cellaneous,' No.  CX.  March  23,  1772),  in  which  the  editor 
is  desired  to  inform  the  public  that '  the  worthy  Lord 
Barrington,  '  not  contented  with  having  driven  Mr.  D'Oyly 
out  of  the  War  Office,  has  at  last  contrived  to  expel 
Mr.  Francis,'  and  both  these  gentlemen  are  invited  to 
communicate  to  the  world  the  reasons  of  their  dismissal. 

The  following  official  letter  to  Major  Baggs — perhaps 
the  last  which  Francis  ever  signed  at  the  War  Office 
— and  the  private  postscript  annexed,  complete  the  history 
of  the  occurrence.  But  the  immediate  cause  and  manner 
of  the  resignation  are,  as  has  been  said,  nowhere  plainly  dis- 
closed. The  portion  of  the '  Fragment  of  Autobiography  ' 
in  which  they  would  have  appeared  has  been  carefully 
mutilated  by  Francis  himself  :— 

War  Office,  March  20,  1772. 

Dear  Sir, — My  Lord  Barrington  has  desired  me  to  answer  a  letter 
of  yours,  dated  the  7th  of  last  month.  The  subject  of  it  is  rather 
of  a  delicate  nature,  and  a  formal  official  answer  might  be  liable  to 
inconvenience. 

It  is  very  much  his  lordship's  desire  that  every  recommendation 
given  in  by  the  Colonel  to  the  Staff  Commissions,  might  be  with 
the  concurrence  and  approbation  of  the  commanding  officer.  At 
the  same  time  his  lordship  cannot  question  the  propriety  of  the 
Colonel's  recommendation.  The  Secretary  at  "War  receives  it  ill 
course  of  his  office,  and  lays  it  before  the  King,  who  considers  the 
Colonel  as  the  best  judge  of  the  qualifications  of  the  officer  whom  he 
recommends  to  his  Majesty.  In  one  article  I  must  set  you  right. 
You  seem  to  apprehend  that  the  commission  of  Adjutant  is  not  sale- 
able; but  in  fact  there  is  no  order  to  prevent  its  being  sold  where 
the  possessor  was  a  purchaser. 

I  am,  dear  Sir, 

Your  most  obedient  humble  servant, 

P.  FRANCIS. 


also  pens  those  attacks  on  the  Secretary  of  War  under  different  signatures  ; 
so  that  the  attacks  in  the  press  might  not  be  supposed  to  come  from  any 
individual  or  common  source.— [J.  PARKES.] 


280  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

Dear  Phil. — The  formal  letter  you  have  just  read  is,  I  hope,  the 
last  you  will  receive  from  me  in  that  style.  At  the  end  of  this  quarter 
I  leave  the  War  Office.  It  is  my  own  act.  Be  not  alarmed  for  me. 
Everything  is  secure  and  as  it  should  be.  I  wait  your  answers  to 
my  last  letters,  in  order  to  settle  that  business.  You  may  still  direct 
to  me  under  Lord  B.'s  cover,  but  not  any  other  letter  but  for  me. 

Adieu. 

P.  F. 

I  am  hurried  and  agitated  to  death. 

In  March  1772,  therefore  (on  what  precise  day  we  are 
ignorant),  the  official  life  of  Francis  in  England  terminated. 
Junius,  as  we  have  seen,  had  ceased  to  write.  The  last 
'  private '  letters  to  Woodfall  are  dated  early  in  May :  the 
last  '  miscellaneous '  letter  is  that  of  Nemesis,  already 
alluded  to,  May  12.  In  these,  the  warfare  against  the 
Secretary  at  War  is  continued  to  the  very  last.  '  Next 
to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  I  verily  believe  that  the  blackest 
heart  in  the  kingdom  belongs  to  Lord  Barrington.' 

Many  years  afterwards  a  newspaper  controversy  in 
the  '  True  Briton,'  on  the  Junius  question,  excited  a  good 
deal  of  attention.  The  immediate  subject  was  the  theory 
of  Dr.  Chalmers  assigning  the  authorship  to  Boyd.  Mr. 
Farkes  was  of  opinion  that  Francis  himself  mingled 
among  the  combatants.  However  this  may  be,  some  of 
them  were  evidently  well  informed  as  to  the  details  of 
the  period.  A  letter  signed  An  Admirer  of  Junius, 
August  17,  1779,  contains  the  following  statement: — 

I  shall  conclude  my  observations  with  an  anecdote,  that  has 
already,  I  believe,  appeared  in  print,  which  was  related  to  me  by  a 
person  of  very  distinguished  talents  and  character,  who  was  always 
a  very  powerful  and  sometimes  a  leading  opponent  of  Lord  North  s 
administration.  It  was  to  the  following  purport : — 

Junius  having  been  discovered  by  Ministers,  it  became  an  imme- 
diate matter  of  consultation  among  them,  respecting  the  conduct  to 
be  pursued  by  government  on  the  occasion  ;  and  the  general  opinion 
seemed  to  be  for  violent  measures  and  vindictive  prosecutions.  But 
as  a  business  presented  itself  which  appeared  to  require  the  aid  of 


1772J  FRANCIS  LEAVES  THE  WAR  OFFICE.  281 

criminal  law,  it  was  thought  prudent  to  call  in  the  knowledge  and 
legal  opinion  of  the  first  criminal  judge  ;  and  Lord  Mansfield  de- 
livered himself  to  the  following  effect : — 

*  I  am  decidedly  against  any  violent  proceedings.  You  have 
already  tried  your  whole  strength  against  this  writer  in  the  pre- 
sence of  his  publisher,  and  have  had  sufficient  experience  of  London 
and  Middlesex  juries  to  be  cautious,  in  the  present  temper  of  the 
public,  of  trusting  yourselves  again  to  them ;  especially  when  the 
hazard  would  be  increased  by  the  added  popularity,  naturally  at- 
taching itself  to  the  author,  when  hurried  by  you  into  a  court  of 
justice,  and  thus  exposed  to  the  view  and  admiration  of  the  kingdom, 
while  the  consequences  of  his  acquittal,  which  would  be  more  than 
probable,  fill  me  with  alarm  on  the  mere  suggestion  of  them.  Be- 
sides, as  Sir  William  Draper  and  General  Burgoyne  have  both 
pledged  themselves,  as  soldiers  and  men  of  honour,  to  bring  the 
concealed  writer,  whenever  he  should  be  discovered,  to  the  ordeal 
of  their  swords,  will  it  not  be  said,  and  with  some  reason,  by  the 
people  at  large,  that  you  roused  a  man  who  wished  to  remain  hid 
from  his  covert,  in  order  to  be  hunted  down  by  your  own  blood- 
hounds ?  ' 

It  was  therefore  recommended  by  this  great  lawyer,  that  the  for- 
midable writer  should  be  properly  informed  that  he  was  known  to 
government,  and  that  if  he  remained  quiet  he  should  continue  to 
be  unknown  to  the  world.  This  Lord  M.  thought  would  be  fully 
sufficient  to  lay  his  perturbed  spirit ;  but  if  such  a  measure  did  not 
promise  success,  more  conciliatory  means  of  silence  should  be  re- 
sorted to  ;  and  such  he  doubted  not  but  ministers  might  apply  with 
effect.  The  measures  that  followed,  whatever  they  were,  appear  to 
have  been  successful,  for  Junius  wrote  no  more. 

Such  are  the  hints  which  I  take  the  liberty  of  suggesting  to  your 
correspondent,  the  Old  Observer,  and  if  they  should  produce  any 
new  observations  from  him,  it  will  give  great  pleasure  to 

AN  ADMIRER  OF  JUNIDS. 

For  a  few  months  after  he  left  the  War  Office,  no 
manuscript  letters  from  Francis  are  to  be  found.  For 
some  reason  or  other,  he  seems  to  have  left  off  his  practice  of 
copying  those  which  he  addressed  to  Macrabie  and  Baggs. 
Presumably  he  remained  at  home,  as  there  are  none  to 
his  wife  preserved.  And  his  autobiography  is  here 
equally  deficient.  We  can  only  resume  his  personal 


282  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR   PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

history  at  the  period  when,  in  despair  apparently  of 
attaining  such  employment  as  he  desired  at  home,  hopeless 
of  political  change  to  his  advantage,  and  suffering  from 
all  the  bitterness  of  disappointed  ambition,  lie  left  England 
in  July  1772,  for  a  long  continental  tour,  in  company 
with  his  friend  Mr.  Godfrey. 

Before  concluding  the  chapter  of  Francis's  life  which 
coincides  with  the  first  publication  of  Junius,  it  is  ne- 
cessary to  advert  to  one  subject  in  connexion  with  it, 
on  which  the  papers  now  given  to  the  public  throw  addi- 
tional light.  It  is  in  truth  a  painful  topic.  That  Francis 
was  intemperate,  bitter,  and  unforgiving,  former  enquirers 
into  his  history  have  long  ago  ascertained.  But  he  has 
generally  passed  for  a  fast  friend,  as  well  as  a  strong 
enemy.  His  general  allegiance  to  the  few  political  chiefs 
whom  he  respected  has  been  often  noticed :  the  occasional 
instances  in  which  he  turns  against  them  (as,  especially, 
in  the  case  of  Lord  Chatham)  appear  sometimes  grounded 
on  honest  motives,  sometimes  ^rather  intended  for  pur- 
poses of  disguise,  to  obviate  the  suspicion  which  an 
appearance  of  partisanship  might  direct  towards  himself. 
In  private  life,  his  correspondence  speaks  favourably  for 
him :  it  shows  him  very  attentive  towards  his  father, 
tender  to  his  wife,  passionately  attached  to  his  children, 
and  on  affectionate  terms  with  the  little  circle  of  his 
family  and  intimates.  All  this  may  be  fairly  said  to  his 
credit.  But  the  darker  side  of  his  character,  unhappily, 
is  brought  out  by  the  same  evidence. 

The  reader  will  by  this  time  have  had  abundant 
evidence  of  the  character  of  the  relations  between  Calcraft 
and  Francis.  They  were  those  of  a  very  zealous  and 
very  attached  patron  towards  a  friend,  rather  thrin  a 
dependent,  whom  he  admired  and  esteemed.  He  trans- 
ferred to  the  son  the  intimacy  which  had  long  united  him 


1772]  FRANCIS,  CALCRAFT,  AND  CHATHAM.  283 

with  the  father.  When  Calcraft  deserted  the  Holland 
party,  to  attach  himself  to  Lord  Chatham,  and  when  Dr. 
Francis,  the  old  household  inmate  of  the  family  of  Lord 
Holland  along  with  himself,  went  to  live  exclusively  at 
Bath,  the  ties  between  these  two  seem  to  a  certain  extent 
to  have  relaxed.  But  Francis  the  younger  and  Calcraft 
were  only  drawn  the  closer  together..  They  were 
connected  in  the  most  confidential  manner,  during  the 
years  1770  and  1771,  in  repeated  and  fruitless  efforts  to 
replace  Lord  Chatham  in  power.  Calcraft  was  Chatham's 
4  wire  puller '  and  political  agent  as  well  as  informant. 
Francis  aided  him  to  the  best  of  his  ability,  arid  with  all 
the  bitterness  of  his  political  partisanship.  Calcraft  inserts 
in  his  letters  to  Chatham  several  private  communications 
received  from  Francis.  At  the  very  same  time,  we  find 
Junius  urging  the  very  same  views  on  the  ex-Minister  in 
private  communications,  which,  notwithstanding  their 
anonymous  character,  so  far  attracted  attention  as  to  be 
preserved  by  their  receiver. 

Their  united  efforts,  however,  failed :  Calcraft  remained 
in  opposition,  and  Francis  in  his  obscure  occupation  at 
the  War  Office.  Then  came  the  disappointment  of  the 
latter  in  the  matter  of  promotion,  and  his  resignation  of 
his  clerkship.  Nothing  could  exceed  the  heartiness  with 
which  Calcraft  stood  his  friend  throughout  this  crisis. 
The  particulars  are  narrated  in  the  '  History  and  Discovery 
of  Junius,'  vol.  ii.  of  Bohn's  edition,  p.  Ixvii.,  &C.1  And. 
lastly,  as  we  shall  see  more  in  detail,  on  the  probable  day 
of  Francis's  dismissal  or  retirement  (March  20),  Calcraft 


1  He  endeavoured  to  get  paragraphs  inserted  in  the  newspapers  announcing 
Francis's  appointment  as  deputy.  He  says  to  Almon  the  publisher  (Jan. 
1772) :  '  I  was  not  misinformed :  I  knew  Francis  was  not  deputy,  but  I 
wished  him  to  be  so,  and  to  cram  the  newspapers  with  paragraphs  that  he 
was  so,  for  he  is  very  deserving.' 


284  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

added  a  codicil  to  his  will,  bequeathing  to  him  the  sum 
of  1,000/.  and  an  annuity  of  250/.  to  Mrs.  Francis.  The 
Doctor  was  surely  right  in  naming  Calcraft — as  he  does  in 
his  letter  to  his  son  of  November  13,  1768 — '  the  man  to 
whom  I  am  indebted  for  all  your  happiness,  and  •  for 
almost  all  I  myself  enjoy.'  And  when  Calcraft,  in  his  last 
illness,  intended  to  leave  England  and  winter  at  Naples 
(see  his  last  letter  to  Lord  Chatham  in  the '  Correspondence,' 
August  21,  1772),  his  object,  according  to  the  fragment 
of  autobiography,  was  to  join  Francis  there. 

And  yet,  notwithstanding  the  ties  which  bound  Francis 
to  Calcraft,  we  find  the  following  passage  in  Junius 
(October  5,  1771)  :- 

Even  the  silent  vote  of  Mr.  Calcraft  is  worth  reckoning  in  a  di- 
vision. What  though  he  riots  in  the  plunder  of  the  army,  and  has 
only  determined  to  be  a  patriot  when  he  could  not  be  a  peer  ?  Let 
us  profit  by  the  assistance  of  such  men  when  they  are  with  us,  and 
place  them,  if  it  be  possible,  in  the  post  of  danger  to  prevent  deser- 
tion. 

It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  the  occurrence  of  this 
attack  on  Calcraft  has  been  used  by  those  who  contested 
the  authorship  of  Francis,  as  an  argument  in  their  favour. 
It  was  especially  so  employed  by  the  late  Mr.  Croker,  in 
an  article  in  vol.  xc.  of  the  '  Quarterly  Review,'  in  which 
he  advocated  the  claim  of  Lord  Lyttelton.  c  If  Francis 
was  Junius,  he  wantonly  made  this  attack  on  Calcraft  at 
the  very  time  that  he  was  in  kind  and  confidential  inter- 
course with  him,  and  less  than  six  months  previously  to 
his  giving  him  the  magnificent  proof  of  friendship  men- 
tioned above.  Ingratum  qui  dixerit,  omnia  dixit.  To 
assume  that  Francis  was  Junius  is  to  stigmatise  him  as  a 
monster  of  treachery.'  And  those  who  were  not  staggered 
in  their  faith  by  the  circumstance  may  possibly  have 
believed  that  the  words  thus  reflecting  on  the  writer's 


1772]  FRANCIS  ON  CALCRAFT.  285 

private  friend,  were  inserted  by  way  of  aiding  his  disguise, 
and  not  impossibly  with  the  cognisance  of  Calcraft 
himself. 

But,  unfortunately,  we  find  a  too  parallel  passage  in 
Philip  Francis's  own  fragment  of  autobiography,  where 
he  could  have  had  no  other  purpose  than  that  of  record- 
ing the  impressions  of  his  own  bitter  and  sarcastic  spirit. 
I  extract  the  following  part  only :  the  whole  is  given  in 
the  Appendix.  'Calcraft  undoubtedly  owed  his  rapid 
fortune  to  Mr.  Fox's  patronage.  He  was  the  son  of  an 
attorney  at  Grantham,  and  went  to  town  literally  to 
seek  his  fortune.  At  the  age  of  six-and-forty  he  had  a 
landed  estate,  the  rent-roll  of  which  was  above  10,000^ 
a  year. 

'  In  his  quarrel  with  Lord  Holland  I  think  he  had  as 
much  reason  on  his  side  as  an  interested  man  can  have 
for  deserting  an  old  friend  and  benefactor.  There  was 
not  virtue  enough  in  either  of  them  to  justify  their 
quarrelling :  if  either  of  them  had  had  common  honesty, 
he  never  could  have  been  the  friend  of  the  other.  .  .  . 
From  that  time  we  may  date  the  origin  of  Mr.  Calcraft's 
patriotism.'  There  was,  therefore,  identity  of  sentiment 
and  almost  of  language  between  Junius  and  Francis  on 
the  subject  of  Calcraft,  whatever  interpretation  we  may 
put  on  the  circumstance. 

But,  in  dismissing  the  question  of  the  authorship  of 
Junius,  I  must  add  a  few  words  on  what  has  always  ap- 
peared to  myself  an  exceedingly  perplexing  part  of  the 
subject ;  namely,  the  successful  preservation  of  the  secret 
during,  and  after,  the  period  at  which  these  famous  letters 
appeared. 

Francis,  if  Francis  was  the  author,  was  not,  as  the 
reader  will  by  this  time  have  abundantly  verified,  a  man 
of  retired  or  unsocial  habits.  He  lived  very  much  in 


286  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

the  world  ;  in  the  society  of  well-informed  and  active 
public  official  persons,  such  as  Calcraft  and  D'Oyly ;  in  the 
remnant  of  the  old  Holland  circle  to  which  his  father  was 
attached ;  his  days  were  spent  in  a  busy  public  office, 
seeing  and  conversing  with  politicians  every  day,  and  this 
during  the  time  in  which  these  letters  were  exciting  the 
most  intense  interest,  and  were  the  subject  of  daily  dis- 
cussion in  all  society.  And  yet,  so  far  as  we  are  able  to 
discover,  no  one  suspected  him  of  the  authorship. 

His  own  extreme  precaution  and  suspicion  must  of 
course  have  been  the  main  cause  of  his  success.  The 
watchfulness  of  Junius  in  this  respect,  his  exceeding  dread 
of  discovery,  is  well  known  to  all  the  readers  of  his 
letters,  and  especially  of  the  '  private '  letters  published  by 
Woodfall.  And  the  real  Francis,  as  we  have  seen,  had  quite 
as  strong  a  tendency  to  concealment  as  Junius  himself. 
His  domestic  letters,  so  far  as  preserved — full  as  they  are 
of  cancels  and  erasures — give  abundant  evidence  that, 
intimate  as  his  associates  might  be  with  him  in  the  ordi- 
nary sense  of  the  word,  none  of  them  penetrated  below 
the  surface  of  his  character.  None  of  them,  by  any 
expression,  give  the  idea  of  the  writer's  being  admitted 
into  any  real  privacy  with  him.  And  of  this  great 
and  successful  concealment,  besides,  the  fact  itself  stands 
incontrovertible,  whether  we  can  explain  it  or  not. 
And  it  has  always  met  every  theorist  respecting  Junius, 
as  the  greatest  obstacle  to  his  particular  view.  If  it  be 
difficult  of  explanation  as  regards  so  comparatively  obscure 
a  person  as  Francis,  a  multo  fortiori  as  regards  Lord  Tem- 
ple, Lord  George  Germaine,  Burke,  and  so  forth.  Either, 
it  is  evident  to  all  readers,  Junius  must  have  stood  very 
high  in  the  political  world,  and  then  the  preservation  of 
his  secret  is  a  very  unaccountable  thing — or  he  must  have 
been  obscure  enough  to  render  that  preservation  easy  :  and 


1772]  CALCRAFT  AND  JUNIUS.  287 

then  it  is  very  difficult  to  account  for  his  extensive  and 
minute  political  knowledge.  The  peculiar  position  of 
Francis  as  a  subordinate  official  in  close  connection  with 
the  higher  world — unknown  himself  and  knowing  much 
— certainly  does  much  towards  evading  the  cogency  of 
this  dilemma.  And  probably  no  circumstance  has  tended 
more  to  the  general  acceptance  of  the  Franciscan  theory 
than  this,  independently  of  the  particular  proofs  collected 
by  others  and  those  now  added  by  Mr.  Parkes. 

But  although  others  certainly  had  no  suspicion  of  the 
identity  of  Francis  with  Junius,  is  it  possible,  in  the  first 
place,  that  Calcraft  had  not  ? 

We  have  seen,  from  the  contents  of  this  chapter,  what 
the  fragment  of  autobiography  discloses  in  express  lan- 
guage— namely,  the  relations  between  Calcraft  and  Francis. 
From  1769  to  1771  they  were  fellow-conspirators  in  a 
great  scheme,  that  of  overturning  the  Grafton  government 
and  subsequently  that  of  Lord  North,  and  persuading  or 
forcing  Lord  Chatham  into  power.  Such  was  the  general 
outline  of  the  purpose  of  their  combination.  Calcraft's 
part  in  executing  it  the  '  Chatham  Correspondence '  fully 
shows.  It  will  be  seen  that  he  was  in  constant  commu- 
nication with  Chatham,  urging,  encouraging,  advising,  and 
informing  him.  And  the  correspondence  of  Francis,  to- 
gether with  what  we  know  from  other  sources,  equally 
demonstrates  his  share  in  the  business.  He — unknown 
to  the  proud  and  recluse  Lord  Chatham,  except  as  his 
young  amanuensis  of  a  short  time — only  approached  the 
great  man  through  Calcraft.  His  business  was  to  collect 
materials  for  Calcraft ;  to  stimulate  him  by  use  of  the 
plentiful  resources  of  his  own  wit,  courage,  and  informa- 
tion ;  to  act,  in  short,  as  the  jackal's  provider,  who  was 
himself  providing  for  the  lion.  And  while  these  two  were 
thus  engaged,  a  third  auxiliary  was  beside  them  in  the 


288  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

field,  more  powerful  than  either — Junius.  Junius  dealt 
throughout  similar  blows,  attacked  the  same  enemies, 
raised  the  same  standard ;  but,  under  the  shelter  of  the 
anonymous,  his  weapon  penetrated  far  more  severely.  He 
was  like  the  spectral  warrior  who  fights  beside  the  living 
combatants,  in  battles  of  old  romance — 

For  under  that  strange  horseman 
Still  thicker  lay  the  slain — 

and  while  their  efforts  are  forgotten,  his  have  left  a 
durable  impression  on  the  literature  and  politics  of 
England.  Such  the  coalition  remained  for  more  than 
two  years.  It  was  broken  up  by  the  force  of  circum- 
stances. Nothing  definite  could  be  made  of  Chatham. 
Opposition  fell  to  pieces.  A  reaction  in  favour  of  the 
Ministry  was  created  (among  other  causes)  by  the  violence 
of  Junius  himself.  Calcraft  relaxed  his  efforts  and 
withdrew  from  the  scene.  Francis  quarrelled  with  his 
chief  and  left  his  office.  And  Junius  ceased  to  write. 

These  being  the  facts,  is  it  not  the  most  probable 
supposition  that  Calcraft  was  cognizant  of  Junius? 
Could  he,  the  wire-puller  and  intriguer,  have  read  the 
letters  under  that  signature  from  day  to  day,  written  as 
it  were  entirely  in  his  own  sense — have  observed  their 
notoriety  and  strong  effect  on  the  public  mind — and  not 
have  sought  for,  and  ascertained,  their  author,  that  author 
being  all  the  time  close  at  his  side?  This  is  hard  to 
believe  ;  and  the  supposition  of  confederacy  is  confirmed 
by  the  strong  anxiety  shown  by  Francis,  if  some  stories 
can  be  trusted,  to  obtain  his  papers  from  Calcraft's 
executors.  (See  Bohn's  'Junius,'  ii.  Ixix.)  Calcraft's 
death  in  1772  prevented  all  later  divulgation  of  the  secret. 
If  this  be  so,  the  abuse  of  Calcraft  by  Junius  was  pro- 
bably a  blind,  as  regards  the  public,  though,  as  it  happens, 
it  expressed  the  inmost  sentiments  of  Francis,  who  must 


1772]  WOODFALL  AND  JUNIUS.  289 

have  felt  that  peculiar  joy  which  none  but  the  private 
lampooner  knows,  in  finding  that  his  associate  received 
as  a  pretence  what  was  meant  in  spiteful  earnest.  But 
the  supposition  remains  a  supposition  only — nothing  left 
by  Calcraft,  nothing  left  by  Francis,  exists  to  confirm  it ; 
— and  one  other  •  hypothesis  is  certainly  conceivable  : 
namely,  that  Francis  professed  to  Calcraft  that  he  knew 
the  author  of  Junius,  but  was  bound  not  to  divulge  his 
name  ;  and  that  Calcraft  acquiesced,  from  not  wishing  to 
lose  the  services  of  so  valuable  an  auxiliary. 

In  the  next  pkce,  whether  Calcraft  had  such  knowledge 
or  not,  is  it  possible  that  Henry  Sampson  Woodfall,  the 
printer  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  had  none  ? 

It  must  be  remembered  that  the  writer  of  this  extra- 
ordinary mass  of  correspondence  (Junius,  the  '  Miscel- 
laneous,' and  apparently  many  more)  was  in  almost  daily 
communication  with  the  office  of  that  newspaper.  The 
interest  felt  by  the  proprietor  of  it  in  his  personality  and 
his  proceedings  must  have  been  intense.  He  was  the 
architect  of  its  fortune ;  the  appearance  of  a  letter  by 
Junius  raised  its  sale  by  many  hundreds  of  copies.  And, 
on  the  other  hand,  he  was  the  cause  of  its  constant 
danger  of  collision  with  the  authorities.  A  letter  of 
Junius  was  certain  to  fill  Woodfall's  pocket,  and  at  the 
same  time  to  afflict  Woodfall  with  a  fit  of  nervousness  on 
the  subject  of  the  law  of  libel.  Is  it  conceivable  that  he, 
by  all  accounts  an  able  man  of  business,  would  not  have 
set  every  engine  in  motion  to  ascertain  the  identity  of  his 
correspondent  ? 

And  could  he  have  had  any  real  difficulty?     It  has 

been  seen,  from  Mr.  Parkes's  memoir,  that  Woodfall  was 

not  only  a  schoolfellow  of  Francis,  but  through  early  life, 

though  never  intimate,  yet  more  or  less  acquainted  with 

VOL.  i.  u 


290  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

him.1  The  very  handwriting  of  Francis — bearing  the  stamp 
of  that  peculiar  '  Pauline '  teaching  to  which  Mr.  Parkes 
adverts,  and  of  which  so  many  observers,  in  later  times, 
have  detected  the  reappearance,  though  disguised  in  the 
manuscripts  of  Junius — would  surely  have  been  enough, 
without  the  aid  of  other  corroborating  circumstances,  to 
set  Woodfall  on  the  right  line  of  discovery. 

The  inclination  of  my  own  belief  certainly  is,  that  Henry 
Sampson  Woodfall  was  aware  of  the  identity  of  Junius 
with  Francis,  from  an  early  period  of  the  correspondence 
—whether  this  knowledge  was  shared  by  other  members 
of  his  family  and  firm,  or  not.  In  which  case,  the  whole 
concoction  of  the  correspondence  must  be  considered  as 
in  a  certain  sense  the  common  adventure  of  Francis  and 
Woodfall.  This  would  account,  more  easily  than  any 
other  supposition,  for  the  occasional  assistance  afforded  to 
the  undertaking  by  inferior  hands,  of  which  it  is  difficult 
to  doubt  in  relation  to  the  Candor  and  '  miscellaneous  ' 
portion. 

Of  course,  in  this  case,  the  whole  of  the  mysterious 
particulars  in  the  so-called  '  private  '  letters — the  secrecy 
observed  respecting  the  communication  between  Junius 
and  Woodfall,  the  appearance  of  the  '  tall  man  in  a  light 
coat,'  and  all  the  other  details  of  the  romance — must  be 
regarded  as  got  up  on  purpose  to  throw  dust  in  the  eyes 
of  some  one,  and  most  probably  of  H.  S.  Woodfall's  own 
associates  and  inferiors  in  his  business. 

It  may,  however,  be  urged,  on  the  other  hand,  and  with 
much  appearance  of  reason  :  if  Henry  Woodfall  knew  the 
secret  of  Junius,  and  therefore  was  in  truth  a  confederate, 
what  induced  him  to  preserve  so  carefully  as  he  did  all  the 
'  private  letters/  in  a  feigned  hand,  which  were  addressed 

1  Mr.  Parkes  thought  that  Francis  avoided  purposely  keeping  up  intimacy 
with  Woodfall.  But  I  do  not  see  the  evidence  for  this. 


1772]  WOODFALL  FAMILY  PAPERS.  291 

to  him  by  Junius  in  furtherance  of  the  objects  of  the 
conspiracy?  the  natural  course  would  surely  have  been  to 
destroy  them.  I  cannot  satisfactorily  answer  this  objection. 
But  it  is  remarkable  that  it  was  the  habit  of  the  Woodfalls 
to  retain  equally  compromising  documents.  The  editor 
of  a  popular  paper,  next  to  medical  men  and  solicitors,  is 
probably  by  far  the  greatest  possessor,  in  modern  days,  of 
secrets  of  the  confessional.  Woodfall  was  confidentially 
addressed  on  delicate  subjects  by  numbers  of  the  leading 
men  of  the  time :  and  their  communications  remain 
among  the  Woodfall  family  papers  used  by  Mr.  Parkes.  I 
subjoin,  in  a  note,  two  or  three  selected  from  a  multitude.1 

1  Admiralty,  February  23,  1772. 

Mr.  Woodfall, — I  shall  be  obliged  to  you  if,  without  mentioning  my  name 
or  giving  any  hint  where  this  comes  from,  you  would,  if  possible,  insert  the 
underwritten  paragraph  in  your  paper  of  to-morrow,  otherwise  in  that  of 
Thursday,  but  I  wish  much  to  have  it  in  to-morrow  :  the  fact  with  regard 
to  the  action  is  true. 

I  am  your  very  humble  servant, 

SANDWICH. 

'  We  hear  that  the  Earl  of  Sandwich  has  caused  an  action  to  be  brought 
against  the  printer  of  the  London  '  Evening  Post '  of  the  2nd  February,  in 
order  to  vindicate  his  honour  against  the  infamous  falsehood  contained  in 
that  paper.' 

To  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall. 

Strawberry  Hill,  March  29,  1772. 

Sir, — I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  kind  attention  in  sending  me  the 
note  you  enclosed,  as  it  certainly  was  not  worth  troubling  the  public  with, 
yet  very  flattering  to  me.  1  am  sorry  to  take  up  a  corner  of  your  paper ; 
but,  if  you  should  have  room  at  any  time,  it  would  be  an  additional  favour 
if  you  would  be  so  good  as  to  insert  the  advertisement  below,  from,  though 
without  the  name  of,  Sir, 

Your  most  obliged  humble  servant, 

HOB.  WALPOLE. 

'  The  author  of  a  work,  of  which  a  new  edition  has  been  desired  by  a 
card  sent  to  the  printer  of  this  paper,  acquaints  the  persons  who  have  done 
him  the  honour  to  make  that  request  that  he  has  hitherto  been  prevented 
by  various  accidents  from  giving  another  edition  enlarged,  but  intends  it  as 
soon  as  he  can  offer  it  to  the  public  in  as  satisfactory  a  manner  as  he  wishes 
to  give  anything  of  his  writing  that  they  are  pleased  to  regard  favourably. 

'  EEKAT.' 
u2 


292  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

It  is  necessary,  however,  to  add  that  the  Woodfall  family, 
whose  succession  has  been  prolonged  to  our  time,  have 
always  denied  any  knowledge  of  Junius  on  the  part  of  their 
ancestor ;  and,  more  than  this,  that  the  current  belief  in 
that  family  has  been  that  Francis  was  not  Junius  at  all. 

Henry  Sampson  Woodfall,  Francis's  contemporary  at 
St.  Paul's  School,  died  on  December  12,  1805,  at  the  age 
of  66. ]  His  younger  brother  William,  who  printed  the 

The  following  is  endorsed  by  Mr.  Parkes — probably  on  evidence  of  hand- 
writing— as  from  Charles  James  Fox  : — 

To  II.  S.  7f  oodfall,  Esq. 

Hichmond.  Friday  evening. 

The  omission  of  the  Bellman's  verses  in  to-day's  'Public  Advertiser' 
could  have  been  of  no  disservice  to  you,  though  the  insertion  of  them  may 
tend  to  prejudice  your  friend — not  that  I  should  take  the  least  notice,  if  you 
did  not  suppress  every  syllable  of  the  kind  in  the  winter.  I  have  at  least  a 
right  to  neighbour's  fare. 

My  paragraphs  being  paid  for,  since  you  will  not  gratis  tell  the  world 
they  may  expect  a  great  deal  of  poverty,  I  hope  you  are  well  paid  for  taxing 
me  with  the  want  of  it. 

The  next  is  from  Garrick.  The  fear  which  Junius  entertained  of  this 
actor's  interference  with  Woodfall  will  be  remembered  : — 

Dear  Sir, — You  have  paragraphs  in  your  paper  which  may  make  a  lady, 
for  whom  I  have  the  greatest  regard,  very  uneasy. 

You  are  too  much  of  a  man  to  give  pain  to  the  fair  sex,  and  to  one  who  I 
am  sure  could  never  oflend  you.  If  your  own  good  sense  and  good  nature 
will  drop  this  persecution  I  shall  be  very  particularly  obliged  to  you,  and,  if 
you  please,  you  shall  be  as  free  with  me  at  any  and  all  times. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  your  most  obliged  and  obedient  servant, 

D.  GARRICK. 

I  need  not  tell  you  that  the  lady  I  mean  is  Lady  Bridget  Lucas. 

1  William  Woodfall,  the  reporter,  popularly  called  Memory  Woodfall, 
from  his  extraordinary  faculty  of  carrying  away  in  his  head  an  accurate  recol- 
lection of  what  had  passed  in  a  debate,  in  order  subsequently  to  commit  it 
to  paper,  the  only  way  in  which  reporting  could  then  be  practised,  was  a 
brother  of  Henry  Sampson.  The  following  letter  to  '  The  Times,'  Decem- 
ber 24,  1859,  occasioned  by  one  of  Lord  Palmerston's  occasional  frolics  in 
provincial  speech-making,  may  be  worth  preserving. 

Sir, — In  '  The  Times '  of  to-day  there  appears  the  following  statement 
made  by  Lord  Palmerston,  in  his  speech  to  the  toast  of  '  The  Press,'  at  the 
Labourers'  Encouragement  Society's  dinner  at  Romsey ;  and  as  that  state- 


1772]  WILLIAM  WOODFALL.  293 

4  Morning  Chronicle,'  died  before  him.  Henry  Sampson's 
eldest  son  George  died  in  1844,  at  the  age  of  78.  This 
gentleman  communicated  to  Mr.  Parkes  the  following 
anecdote,  among  others,  hostile  to  the  pretensions  of 
Francis : — 

'  More  than  forty  years  since,  I  recollect  my  father  re- 
turning from   the  Pauline  dinner,  and  saying  to  some 

ment  is  unfounded  in  fact,  and  is  most  injurious  to  the  memory  of  the  late 
Mr.  William  Woodfall,  the  celebrated  Parliamentary  reporter,  for  whose 
name  the  public  have  had  some  regard,  and  to  whose  career  his  descendants 
(of  whom  I  am  one)  look  back  with  pride,  I  trust  that  you  will  allow  me  to 
call  your  attention  to  it.  The  words  are  as  follow : — 

'  I  have  heard  that  towards  the  end  of  the  last  century  there  was  a  man 
named  Woodfall  who  used  to  publish  debates,  and  how  did  he  do  it  ?  It  is 
said  he  used  to  go  to  the  gallery  of  the  House  of  Commons,  listen  attentively, 
with  his  face  in  his  hands,  to  what  passed,  go  home,  drink  two  pots  of  porter, 
go  to  bed,  get  up  next  morning,  and  from  his  dreams  and  recollections  make 
out  what  he  called  a  report  of  a  debate.' 

Now,  Sir,  Mr.  William  Woodfall  was  an  honourable,  well-educated  man, 
editor  of  a  newspaper,  endowed  by  his  Creator  with  an  extraordinary 
memory.  At  a  time  when  Parliamentary  reporting  was  in  its  infancy ; 
when  there  were  not  the  relays  of  reporters  and  the  steam  engines  of  '  The 
Times '  to  furnish  a  verbatim  report  of  the  night's  proceedings  for  the 
morning's  reading ;  and  when  Parliamentary  speeches,  being  addressed  less 
to  the  public  than  as  arguments  to  the  House,  did  not  reach  their  present 
interminable  length ;  he  attended  Parliament  and  reported  from  memory  at 
the  earliest  moment  the  essence  of  the  debate,  honestly  and  with  talent. 
His  reports  were  true  according  to  his  power,  and  not  made  up  by  a  drunken 
impostor,  as  Lord  Palmerston  would  have  us  believe,  out  of  '  his  dreams  and 
recollections.'  They  were  a  great  boon  to  the  public  (for  which  his  name 
lives  to  the  present  time),  and  were  the  germ  of  that  political  education  of 
the  people  which  you,  by  the  aid  of  modern  appliances  and  great  expenditure, 
have  brought  to  its  present  perfection. 

The  sons  of  Mr.  William  Woodfall  are  no  more  (one  of  them  was  the 
Chief  Justice  of  Cape  Breton,  and  the  author  of  the  '  Law  of  Landlord  and 
Tenant ' — a  textbook  of  the  law  to  the  present  time)  ;  but  I,  as  his  grandson, 
must  indignantly  deny  the  injurious  character  given  to  him  by  Lord 
Palmerston,  and  assert,  from  my  own  association  with  his  immediate 
descendants  (his  widow,  his  sons,  and  others),  that  he  was  regarded,  by 
those  who  knew  him,  with  respect  for  his  moral  qualities,  as  he  lives  still  in 
our  annals  remarkable  for  his  intellectual  endowments. 

I  am,  Sir,  your  most  obedient  servant, 

HERNON  T.  WOODFALL. 

5  Oakley  Terrace,  Chelsea,  December  29,  1859. 


294  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

friends  that  he  had  met  his  old  schoolfellow  Francis  there 
soon  after  his  return  from  India  in  1781.  A  gentleman 
present  observed  to  my  father,  "  Then  you  have  seen  your 
old  friend  Junius."  On  which  he  replied,  with  very 
marked  emphasis,  "  To  my  certain  knowledge  Francis 
never  wrote  a  single  line  of  Junius."  Now,  though  my 
father  might  not  have  known  the  real  author,  yet  it  is 
very  possible  that  he  may  have  known  that  Francis  was 
on  the  continent  when  Junius  was  corresponding  with 
him  in  London.' 

I  have  left  these  last  erroneous  words  standing,  because 
they  certainly  tend  to  show  the  incompleteness  of  Mr. 
George  WoodfaU's  acquaintance  with  the  subject.  We 
now  know,  beyond  the  possibility  of  mistake,  that  Francis 
was  in  London,  or  near  it,  through  the  whole  of  that  cor- 
respondence. 

I  add,  in  the  Appendix,  Mr.  Parkes's  note  of  a  conversa- 
tion between  himself  and  Miss  Woodfall,  the  surviving 
daughter  of  Henry  Sampson,  as  late  as  1857. 

Before  concluding  this  part  of  the  subject,  I  must  add 
one  further  observation  as  to  the  question  how  far  the 
secret  of  Junius  was  inviolate. 

There  is  one  more  associate  of  Francis  whom  it  is  very 
difficult  to  suspect  of  entire  ignorance.  This  was  Christo- 
pher D'Oyly.  The  two  had  lived  together  for  years,  as 
bosom  intimates,  in  the  War  Office.  D'Oyly  must  needs 
have  been  cognisant  of  Francis's  occupation  at  the  office 
every  day ;  and  from  the  office  (according  to  reasonable 
supposition)  Francis  usually  wrote.  The  letters  (in  the 
latter  part  of  the  series)  related,  almost  exclusively,  to 
a  question  in  which  D'Oyly  was  personally  and  deeply 
interested.  They  contained  knowledge  which  could  have 
been  familiar  only  to  one  man  capable  of  so  using  it, 
except  D'Oyly  himself,  and  that  man  D'Oyly 's  daily  asso- 


1772]  D'OYLY  AND  JUNIUS.  295 

ciate.  They-  must  have  been  constantly  under  D'Oyly's 
eyes  and  in  his  thoughts,  for  no  man  in  D'Oyly's  station 
and  position  passes  negligently  over  newspaper  articles 
of  great  publicity  and  deeply  affecting  himself.  It  is  not 
too  much  to  say  that,  unless  some  very  special  artifice 
was  adopted  to  throw  him  off  the  scent,  D'Oyly  must  have 
known  who  wrote  Veteran.  It  does  not  necessarily 
follow  that  he  knew  who  wrote  Junius  ;  but  it  is  all  but 
a  consequence. 

To  sum  up,  in  the  fewest  possible  words,  the  impressions 
conveyed  by  the  papers  before  me  on  this  very  obscure 
and  difficult  question  :  If  Francis  was  Junius,  and  if  any 
one  knew  the  secret  that  he  was  so,  I  believe  that  the 
initiated  were  three  men — Calcraft,  Woodfall,  and  D'Oyly. 
But  it  must  remain  an  open  question  whether  there  were 
any  such  initiated,  or  whether  Francis,  by  his  extreme 
caution  and  his  system  of  leading  his  friends  off  in  false 
directions,  mystified  all  the  world  including  these  three. 

That  Junius  can  only  be  described  with  truth  as  a 
political  adventurer  there  is  no  doubt.  It  is  plain  enough 
that  his  own  personal  success  in  life  was  involved  in  that 
of  the  party  whose  cause  he  adopted,  or,  to  speak  still 
more  accurately,  in  the  fall  of  the  party  which  he  attacked. 
And  it  is  equally  true  that  he  was  utterly  unscrupulous 
in  his  use  of  means  ;  that  his  sincerity,  even  when  he  was 
sincere,  was  apt  to  assume  the  form  of  the  most  ignoble 
rancour ;  and  that  no  ties  of  friendship,  or  party,  or 
connection,  seem  to  have  restrained  his  virulence.  All  this 
is  but  too  deducible  from  the  published  anonymous  writings 
only.  And  the  conclusions  to  which  the  sentiments  and 
conduct  of  Francis  would  lead  us,  as  evinced  in  his  manu- 
script remains,  are  assuredly  much  the  same.  But  when 
all  this  has  been  said,  there  remains  a  residue  of  a  higher 
order,  which  must  in  justice  to  him  be  fairly  weighed  in 


296  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

the  balance.  Notwithstanding  all  his  sins  against  justice 
and  truth,  Junius  was  assuredly  actuated  at  bottom  by  a 
strong  and  ardent  public  spirit.  He  was  throughout  a 
genuine  lover  of  his  country.  He  was  earnest  in  behalf 
of  her  honour  and  of  her  liberties.  He  saw  clearly  that 
her  road  to  the  accomplishment  of  a  higher  destiny  lay 
through  the  maintenance  of  that  honour  and  the  exten- 
sion of  those  liberties.  He  hated  with  an  honest  hatred 
the  meanness  of  principle  and  venality  of  conduct  which 
characterised  but  too  strongly  the  governments  against 
which  he  fought,  and  tarnished  the  political  genius  of  his 
time.  And  very  remarkable  was  the  success  which  at- 
tended his  struggle  against  them.  Great  indeed  were  the 
practical  victories  achieved  by  the  efforts  of  this  nameless, 
obscure  agitator.  Freedom  of  the  press,  and  the  per- 
sonal freedom  of  the  subject,  owe  probably  more  to  the 
writings  of  Junius  than  to  the  eloquence  of  Chatham  or 
Burke,  the  law  of  Camden  and  Dunning.  It  is  not  too 
much  to  say  that  after  the  appearance  of  those  writings,  a 
new  tone  on  these  great  subjects  is  found  to  prevail  in 
our  political  literature.  Doctrines  which  had  previously 
met  with  almost  general  consent  became  exploded,  truths 
which  up  to  that  time  had  been  only  timidly  propounded 
were  placed,  in  post-Junian  times,  on  the  order  of  the  day. 
It  is  no  doubt  very  true  that  he  was  only  fighting  in  the  van 
of  an  advancing  cause,  and  that  these  public  benefits  would 
as  certainly  have  been  secured  to  us  if  Junius  had  never 
written.  But  it  is  just  as  certain  that  America  would 
have  been  discovered  had  Columbus  never  existed ;  yet 
no  one  therefore  contests  the  greatness  of  Columbus,  or 
the  obligations  under  which  mankind  lies  towards  him. 

And  these  considerations  help  us  to  account  for  another 
great  element  in  his  success — his  literary  merit.  Most 
critics,  whose  opinions  are  of  value,  have  joined  in  very 


1772]  LITERARY  MERIT  OF  JUNIUS.  297 

high  admiration  of  the  letters  of  Junius,  taken  by  themselves 
as  works  of  art.  The  best  of  them  are  not  only  enormously 
superior  to  the  ordinary  political  writing  of  that  time — 
equal  perhaps  to  the  best  political  writing  of  any  time — 
but  they  are  certainly  superior  to  anything  else  that  Junius 
can  be  supposed  or  conjectured  to  have  written.  It  has 
long  been  argued  that  Francis  could  not  be  Junius,  be- 
cause of  that  superiority ;  although  those  who  study  the 
remains  of  Francis,  now  given  to  the  public,  may  perhaps 
modify  that  opinion.  But  then  the  letters  are  to  the  full 
as  superior,  generally  speaking,  to  those  which  preceded 
them  in  the  same  newspapers  under  a  variety  of  signa- 
tures, most  or  very  many  of  which  there  can  be  no  doubt 
were  written  by  Junius,  whoever  he  was.  The  riddle, 
therefore,  remains  thus  far  unsolved  on  any  theory.  But 
is  there  not  really  a  ready  solution  ?  The  letters  signed 
Junius  are  of  very  various  merit ;  but  the  best,  as  has  been 
fully  admitted,  exceed  in  fire  and  force  the  writer's  other 
productions.  But  the  mind  of  Francis  was  singularly 
precocious :  this  the  records  of  his  earliest  years  plainly 
show ;  and  intellectual  powers  of  this  description  are  apt 
to  attain  ripeness  at  a  period  of  life  when  those  of  slower 
men  are  in  course  of  development.  And  is  not  a  still 
stronger  reason  for  their  superiority  to  be  found  in  the  fact 
that  they  were  written  under  peculiar  and  ardent  political 
excitement  ?  It  will  be  observed  that  the  period  of  their 
excellence  is  coincident  with  that  during  which  Francis 
was  in  close  and  busy,  though  indirect,  communication 
with  Chatham,  whom  in  earlier  life  he  had  depreciated ; 
when  he  reported  his  speeches,  watched  his  every  move- 
ment, adopted  all  his  tendencies,  and  himself  suggested 
some  of  them.  Francis  was  one  of  those  whose  spirits 
'  are  not  finely  touched  but  to  fine  issues.'  It  was  this  con- 
tagious enthusiasm,  this  passing  fever  of  the  brain,  which 
made  a  great  classic  of  him  ;  which  turned  the  newspaper 


298 


MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 


[1772 


scribe  into  an  inspired  writer,  the  coffee-house  politician 
into  a  patriot  and  a  statesman.  The  fire  which  had 
blazed  thus  brightly  for  a  brief  space  sank  again  when 
its  temporary  fuel  was  consumed.  Francis  remained  a 
powerful,  often  a  commanding  writer  and  speaker ;  but  the 
oracular  spirit  breathed  through  Junius  no  more. 


NOTE  (A).  ' 

The  author  of  the  'History  and  Discovery  of  Junius'  (Dr. 
Mason  Goode)  enumerated  thirty-seven  persons  whose  claims  to 
the  authorship  of  *  Junius '  had  been  more  or  less  seriously 
advocated.  Mr.  Parkes  raised  the  number  to  forty-two  in 
the  subjoined  list.  He  had  collected  materials  for  special  dis- 
proof in  almost  every  one  of  these  cases.  But  the  present 
work  would  not  afford  scope  for  such  investigation. 


False  claims  to 

1.  Burke  (Edmutid). 

2.  Lord  George  Sackville. 

3.  Lord  Chatham. 

4.  Colonel  Barre. 

5.  Hugh  Macaulay  Boyd. 

6.  Dr.  Butler. 

7.  John  Wilkes. 

8.  Lord  Chesterfield. 

9.  Henry  Flood. 

10.  Burke  (William'). 

11.  Gibbon. 

12.  W.  G.  Hamilton. 

13.  Charles  Lloyd. 

14.  General  Lee. 

15.  John  Roberts. 

16.  f  The  Grenvilles  (George 

17.  Land  James).— 

18.  Lord  Temple. 

19.  Duke  of  Portland. 

20.  William  Greatrakes. 

21.  Richard  Glover. 

22.  Sir  William  Jones. 

23.  James  Hollis. 


Authorship  of  Junius. 

24.  Laughlin  Maclean. 

25.  Rosenhagen  (Rev.  Philip). 

26.  John  Home  Tooke. 

27.  John  Kent. 

28.  Henry  Grattan. 

29.  Daniel  Wray. 

30.  Horace  Walpole. 

31.  Alex.  Wedderburn       (Lord 

Loughborough  ) . 

32.  Dunning  (Lord  Ashburton). 

33.  Rich  (Lieut.-Genl.  Sir  Ro- 

bert, Bart.). 

34.  Dr.  Philip  Francis. 

35.  A  Junto  (or  Political  Joint 

Company,     with    Junius's 
official  signature). 

36.  De  Lolme. 

37.  Mrs.  Macaulay. 

38.  Daniel  Wray. 

39.  Sir  Philip  Francis. 

40.  Lord  Littleton. 

41.  Wolfram  Cornwall. 

42.  .Governor  Pownall. 


1772]  ALLEGED  AUTHORS  OF  JUNIUS.  299 

With  respect  to  the  claim  of  the  last  of  these  names,  advocated 
in  a  special  pamphlet,  I  cannot  forbear  suggesting  that  if  the 
following  epitaph,  composed  by  the  Governor  for  his  deceased 
wife,  is  actually  to  be  found  (as  stated  in  that  pamphlet)  in 
Lincoln  Cathedral,  he  must  have  indulged  in  a  vein  of  senti- 
ment and  of  English  very  little  akin  to  Junius:  — 

'  Here  is  entombed  Dame  Harriet,  daughter  of  Lieutenant- 
Geueral  Churchill :  wife  in  her  first  marriage  to  Sir  Everard 
Fawkner,  knight :  in  her  second,  to  Governor  Pownall.  She 
died  February  6,  1777,  aged  51.  Her  person  was  that  of 
animating  beauty,  with  a  complexion  of  the  most  exquisite 
brilliancy,  unfaded  when  she  fell.  Her  understanding  was  of 
such  quickness  and  reach  of  thought,  that  her  knowledge,  although 
she  had  learning,  was  instantaneous  and  original.  Her  heart, 
warmed  by  universal  benevolence  to  the  highest  degree  of 
sensibility,  had  a  ready  tear  for  pity,  and  glowed  with  friend- 
ship as  with  a  sacred  and  inviolate  fire.  Her  love  to  those  who 
were  blessed  with  it  was  happiness.  Her  sentiments  were  cor- 
rect, refined,  elevated.  Her  manner  so  cheerful,  elegant, 
amiable  and  winning,  that  while  she  was  admired  she  was 
beloved ;  and,  while  she  enlightened  and  enlivened,  she  was 
the  delight  of  the  world  in  which  she  lived.  She  was  formed 
for  life :  she  was  prepared  for  death :  which  being  a  gentle 
wafting  to  immortality,  she  lives  where  life  is  real.' 

NOTE  (B). 

Mr.  Parkes,  with  that  patient  industry  with  which  he  treated 
the  whole  of  this  question,  had  examined,  among  the  Francis 
papers,  one  of  Sir  Philip's  folios,  containing  copies  of  articles  in 
other  newspapers  than  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  which  appeared 
during  the  period  of,  and  immediately  before,  Junius  (May 
1768  to  April  1770).  Many  of  these  are  corrected  and  punc- 
tuated by  Sir  Philip  himself.  It  is  therefore  highly  probable 
that  all,  or  most  of  them,  were  contributed  by  himself. 

Copies  bound  up  in  one  of  Sir  P.  Francis's  folio  volumes. 

North  Briton.  No.  L.  May  28,  1768.— Letter  to  Lord  Mansfield 
which  Bingley,  the  publisher,  in  a  note  says  was  sent  to  him  by 
one  of  his  correspondents. 


300  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

North  Briton.  No.  LI.  June  9,  1768. — Bingley's  defence  for  print- 
ing No.  L.,  &c. 

North  Briton.  No.  LXII.  August  20,  1768.— On  the  abuse  of  the 
Civil  List,  an  article  signed  P.M.  ;  and  another  anonymous  article 
(apparently  by  Francis)  on  the  St.  George's  Fields  riot  and 
'  massacre,'  with  funny  anecdote  of  an  Irish  soldier. 

North  Briton.  No.  LXIII.  August  27,  1768. — On  the  same  subject 
(the  massacre),  Shakespeare  quoted  ;  also,  mention  of  Cromwell 
and  Charles  II.  All  probably  by  Francis. 

North  Briton.  No.  CXLIX.  (in  continuation  No.  CIII.),  the  Lords' 
protest  and  list  of  protesting  peers.  Lord  Archer's  name,  MS. 
corrected  by  Francis,  &c. 

Same  folio  vol. 

The  Whisperer.  No.  VI.  March  2,  1770. — On  the  City  address  or 
remonstrance.  Junius's  letter  of  March  19,  1770,  reprinted. 

King's  Speech  of  November  13,  1770,  bound  up.  King's  printer's 
copy. 

North  Briton.  Extra  No.  CXCIV.  (In  continuation  No.  CXLVII.) 
Reprint  of  Debate  in  Lords  of  Nov.  22,  1770.  Chatham's  and 
other  speeches,  with  a  short  introduction,  signed  Bingley,  alleged 
to  be  taken  in  shorthand. 

Military  Warrant,  Feb.  11,  1767. — Requesting  attendance  of  officers 
belonging  to  regiments  on  Foreign  Stations. 

In  4>to  volume  of  Bound  Tracts. 

North  Briton.  Feb.  7,  1770.  No.  CXLIX.     (See  above.) 

Note.  In  another  of  his  folio  volumes,  containing  MS.  reports  in  his 
own  hand  of  Lords'  debates,  he  has  copied  out  from  the  Lords' 
votes  or  journals  of  that  day  the  record  of  the  division ;  and  in 
the  same  vol.  he  has  bound  up  his  rough  MS.  report  of  the  debate 
on  the  Middlesex  election,  speeches  of  Lords  Chatham,  Temple, 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  &c.  &c.  This  was  evidently  notes  from 
memory,  subsequently,  no  doubt,  written  out  in  extenso.  Wood- 
fall  would  rarely  publish  a  debate,  as  against  privilege ;  and  the 
extra  'North  Briton,'  'Whisperer,'  'Scourge,'  &c.  were  set  on  to 
risk  publication.  (See  Appendix.) 

North  Briton.  Dec.  17,  1770. — Letter  to  Lord  Mansfield.  Bingley 
the  publisher  says  sent  by  an  unknown  correspondent. 

The  Scourge.  No.  I.  Jan.  23,  1771. — An  attack  on  Lord  Mansfield. 
Punctuation  corrected  by  Francis  in  his  copy. 

The  Scourge.  No.  H.  Jan.  30,  1771. — Lord  Mansfield  is  specially 
abused ;  reference  is  also  made  in  a  note  to  the  question  of  im- 
prisonment for  debt,  on  which  subject  Francis  had  contemporary 


1772]  NAME  AND  MOTTO  OF  JUNIUS.  301 

pamphlets  among  his  books;  also  Jackson's  King's  Bench  Sermon 
is  alluded  to. 

The  Whisperer.  No.  LV.  March  2, 1771.— Libellous  art.  on  the  King 
and  Lords'  Protest,  Feb.  2,  reprinted.  Secret  history  of  the 
House  of  Hanover  promised  in  next  number. 

The  Whisperer.  The  next  No.,  LVL,  contains  such  Secret  His- 
tory. 

The  Parliamentary  Spy.  No.  XX.  April  10,  1770. — Letter  to  the 
Third  George.  This  copy  of  Francis's  he  has  corrected  in  some 
errata.  Also  he  has  corrected  a  misprint  in  the  Latin  motto. 
The  number  also  contains  a  letter,  signed  Hermolaus,  against 
Lord  Mansfield,  &c. 

NOTE  (C). 

The  following  letter  (dated  Athenaeum,  March  16,  1861)  was 
written  by  the  late  Mr.  Senior  to  Mr.  Parkes  on  a  subject 
which  has  caused  much  speculation — the  reason  which  may 
have  induced  the  adoption  of  the  name  '  Junius  '  and  his  motto. 

My  dear  Parkes, — I  have  often  tried  to  guess  the  meaning  of  the 
motto  to  Junius,  Stat  nominis  umbra :  '  the  shadow  of  the  name 
stands.'  But  in  looking  the  other  day  at  the  title-page  of  the 
'  Etymologicon  Anglicanum,'  I  thought  that  I  could  guess  the 
meaning. 

The  title  is : 

Franciscii  Junii 
Francisci  Filii 
Etymologicon 
Anglicanum. 

And  under  the  frontispiece  are  these  words  : 

Franciscus  Junius, 
Francisci  Filius. 

We  know  that  Sir  P.  Francis  often  gave  obscure  hints  as  to  his 
authorship  of  Junius.  I  think  that  by  the  words  '  Stat  nominis 
umbra,'  he  meant  to  indicate  that  Junius  was  the  son  of  Francis. 
This  may  seem  far-fetched  ;  but  what  other  explanation  of  the 
motto  can  you  give  ?  My  explanation  is,  that  he  meant  to  establish 
a  claim  to  the  authorship,  without  being  forced  to  make  that  claim  ; 
which  in  fact  he  never  had  the  courage  to  do.  N.  W.  SENIOR. 

The  coincidence  is  a  very  curious  one.     But  it  is  assuredly 


302  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

a  coincidence  only.  Had  Francis  ever  happened  to  notice  the 
title-page  to  the  '  Etymologicon  Anglicanum '  (it  appeared  in 
1743),  it  may  be  pretty  safely  assumed  that  he  never  would 
have  taken  the  name  of  Junius. 

As  to  the  motto,  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  remind  classical 
scholars  (and  Francis  was  no  ordinary  one),  that  Lucan's  mean- 
ing is  not  what  Mr.  Senior  supposed,  but  *  he  (Pompey)  stands, 
the  shadow  of  a  (great)  name.'  A  meaning,  though  not  pre- 
cisely identical  with  what  Francis  had  in  his  mind,  yet  suffi- 
ciently near  to  require  no  explanation; — (EDITOR.) 


1772]  CONTINENTAL  TOUR.  303 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

APPOINTMENT   TO   INDIA. 
^Ei.  32-34. 

Continental  tour  with  Godfrey,  1772 — Interview  with  Pope  Clement 
XIV. — Death  of  Calcraft — Return  to  England — Death  of  Dr.  Francis 
— Visit  to  Amsterdam — Appointment  to  the  Council  of  Bengal — Sup- 
posed reasons  for  it — Relations  with  Lord  Barrington — Francis  visits 
Lord  Clive — Family  letters — India  House  disputes  about  Instructions 
under  the  Regulation  Act — Pecuniary  affairs  of  Francis — He  sails, 
April  1774. 

ON  July  7,  1772,  Francis  left  England  on  a  protracted 
continental  tour,  accompanied  by  his  often  mentioned 
friend  Mr.  Daniel  Godfrey ;  and  did  not  return  until 
December  14  in  the  same  year.  I  have  not  found 
among  the  Francis  papers  any  of  his  correspondence 
with  his  son,  wife,  and  family  during  this  absence.  But 
(with  his  usual  methodical  minuteness)  he  kept  a  careful 
journal  of  his  travels.  Most  of  it  consists  only  of 
commonplace  details  of  journeys  and  expenses,  and  I  have 
not  found  it  practicable  to  insert  it  at  length  within  the 
limits  of  the  present  publication.  Their  posting  route  1 

1  Lady  Francis  tells  us  a  singular  story  in  connection  (no  doubt)  with 
their  voyage  to  Calais  on  this  occasion  : — 

'  Francis  was  going  with  Godfrey  to  the  continent  during  the  publication 
of  the  "  Junius  Letters."  A  storm  arose  between  Dover  and  Calais,  and 
there  were  two  English  ladies  aboard  who  were  particularly  alarmed.  At 
Calais  the  passengers  were  being  taken  ashore  in  boats,  the  weather  still 
being  very  alarming.  One  of  the  ladies  begged  the  protection  of  Francis, 
and  when  he  was  going  into  the  boats  implored  him  not  to  leave  her.  He 
told  her  there  were  other  boats  less  crowded  than  his,  and  the  captain 
would  see  her  safe.  She  refused  to  listen,  threw  her  arms  round  his 
neck,  and  clung  to  him  at  imminent  risk  to  the  lives  of  both,  until  they 


304  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

lay  through  Flanders  to  Liege  and  Spa,  then  a  place  of 
much  fashionable  resort,  where  he  complains  that  '  what 
an  Englishman  would  call  a  good  lodging  at  Bath  is  not 
to  be  had  under  a  guinea  a  day.  As  for  the  amusements,  I 
see  nothing  yet  but  dancing,  faro,  and  hazard.'  Here  he 
fell  in  with  his  wandering  kinsman  Major  Baggs.  From 
Spa  they  made  their  way  through  Lorraine,  by  Nancy  and 
Metz,  to  Strasbourg,  where  the  special  subjects  of  Francis's 
commendation  are  the  exquisite  perch,  trout,  and  carp, 
and  the  '  filigree '  workmanship  of  the  Cathedral  steeple. 
4  Very  hot,'  he  complains,  '  and  nothing  to  do.  No 
spectacle  for  the  afternoon.  So  we  determine  to  eat  a 
very  good  dinner,  and  be  good  company  till  supper-time. 
My  companion  slept  ill  last  night,  and  looks  but  dull. 
N.B.  —  Billiards  a  great  resource  in  travelling.  We 
have  not  yet  seen  quite  so  many  cities  as  Ulysses,  but 
we  are  much  better  acquainted  with  the  manners  of 
postilions.'  From  Strasbourg  they  crossed  the  Ehine  and 
proceeded  through  the  Duchy  of  Wiirtemburg  (where  he 
was  struck  with  the  '  extreme  misery  and  desolation  of 
the  country ')  to  Augsburg,  and  so  to  Munich  :  complain- 
ing much  of  the  manners  of  the  country,  and  the  '  eternal 
embarras  of  neither  understanding  nor  being  understood.' 
Francis  was  a  linguist,  but  a  knowledge  of  German  was 
not  among  his  accomplishments.  *  At  three  in  the  morning 
(at  Munich)  we  found  ourselves  between  two  feather- 
beds  ;  at  five  the  bells  began  to  ring ;  at  six  a  copper- 
smith went  to  work,  under  a  window  ;  at  seven  there  was 
a  fair;  at  nine  the  place  was  no  longer  tenable.' 

reached  the  boat  in  safety  and  thence  the  shore.  The  two  ladies  invited  the 
two  gentlemen  to  sup  with  them  at  their  hotel,  which  they  did,  and  found 
that  they  were  the  Misses  K.,  fleeing  from  the  notoriety  which  the  allusions 
of  Junius  had  produced.  F.  used  to  tell  this  story  to  his  wife,  and  speak  of 
it  as  an  extraordinary  rencontre.' 

Unless  this  story  relates  to  the  sister  of  the  two  Kennedys,  alluded  to  in 
the  famous  Junius  letter  of  May  28,  1770, 1  cannot  elucidate  it. 


1772]  INNSPRUCK— VENICE.  305 

On  August  1  they  go  to  see  the  Elector's  hunting  lodge 
at '  Schleisser '  (Schleissheim?),  and  meet  his  Serene  High- 
ness on  the  road. 

In  this  court  there  is  but  one  man  who  lives  tolerably,  and  that 
is  the  Elector.  All  the  rest  are  literally  beggars  :  no  trade,  no 
manufactures  of  any  kind  :  even  agriculture  but  little  attended  to. 
The  Elector  has  above  twenty  hunting  seats,  and  probably  one- 
fourth  of  the  whole  country  is  kept  in  forest  for  the  preservation  of 
the  game.  .  .  .  With  regard  to  the  Elector  himself,  it  may  be  worth 
observing  that  although  we  saw  every  room  in  three  of  his  palaces, 
we  literally  did  not  see  a  single  book,  even  by  accident,  upon  a 
table. 

They  proceeded  by  Innspruck  and  the  Brenner  road 
into  Italy.  Though  Francis  dwells  on  '  dreadful  preci- 
pices, fountains,  rivulets,  cascades,  and  cataracts,'  and  the 
other  ordinary  sights  of  an  Alpine  journey,  it  is  evident 
that  he  had  no  special  gift  for  the  observation  of  nature, 
nor  (it  may  be  added)  were  his  tastes  in  general  those  of 
an  observer,  except  of  mankind.  Verona  he  finds  gay  and 
handsome,  and  swarming  '  with  nobility.  A  count  served 
me  as  a  cicerone  :  he  kissed  my  hand  for  a  sequin.'  At 
Vicenza,  he  observes,  respecting  the  '  Olympic  Theatre,' 
built  by  Palladio  in  imitation  of  antiquity  : — 

'  In  reading  Terence  and  Plautus,  I  always  thought  it 
absurd  that  the  characters  in  the  same  scene  are  fre- 
quently supposed  not  to  see  or  hear  each  other,  though 
necessarily  very  near.  But  when  I  see  a  stage  divided 
into  streets,  the  difficulty  is  removed.  This  disposition 
of  the  scene  is  equally  handsome  and  convenient,  and  of 
course  preserves  the  unity  of  place.  But  the  scene  must 
always  be  in  the  street.' 

The  travellers  reached  Venice  on  August  9,  put  up 
at  the  '  Eegina  d'Inghilterra,'  and  remained  there  until  the 
19th  examining  the  sights  of  the  place.  '  These  gondoliers 
are  fine  fellows,  with  wonderful  large  noses.  Plenty  of 

VOL.  I.  x 


306  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

grapes,  melons,  peaches,  nectarines,  mushrooms,  red 
mullet,  and  pigeons  innumerable,  as  big  as  young 
fowls  ;  figs,  oranges,  beccaficos  and  ortolans  are  next  in 
succession.' 

They  left  Venice  by  a  Eomagnole  trading  vessel,  bound 
for  Ancona  ;  but  were  driven  by  stress  of  weather  to  land 
at  a  little  haven  (Porto  Levante)  at  the  mouth  of  the 
Adige  ;  whence  they  made  their  way  across  country  to 
Ravenna,  '  a  clean  handsome  city,  with  a  multitude  of 
magnificent  palaces  uninhabited  by  Monsignori.  For- 
merly a  sea-port,  now  an  inland  town.  Tantum  religio 
potuitl'  Francis,  on  subjects  like  this,  always  favoured 
the  cynical  style  of  his  schoolfellow  Gibbon.  But  in 
what  way  religion  caused  the  sea  to  recede  from  the  coast 
at  Ravenna  he  does  not  explain.  They  posted  along  the 
JEmilian  road  to  Pesaro,  where  they  were  pleased  with 
the  civility  and  attention  of  a  certain  Abbate  Grazia,  who 
4  introduced  us  to  his  brother  and  sister-in-law,  both  very 
polite,  and  the  lady  rather  pretty.  Mem.  Mr.  Godfrey 
very  uneasy  about  the  shape  of  his  right  leg ;  in  the  lady's 
presence  kept  the  left  chiefly  in  sight.'  From  Pesaro 
they  went  to  Ancona.  *  I  believe  there  is  nothing  more 
curious  and  striking  than  the  effects  of  industry  and  idle- 
ness in  places  lying  within  a  few  miles  of  each  other.  This 
vicinity  of  the  two  objects  makes  the  comparison  the 
more  obvious.  On  the  coast  of  the  Adriatic  the  towns 
are  populous  and  well-built.  Plenty  of  provisions,  and 
the  inhabitants  apparently  at  their  ease,  A  dozen  miles 
from  the  shore,  you  see  nothing  but  beggary,  misery, 
nakedness,  and  religion." 

Visiting  Loretto  and  the  Falls  of  Terni  in  their  road, 
they  crossed  the  Apennines  by  the  Foligno  route,  and 
arrived  at  Rome,  c  at  Benedetto's,'  August  30,  but  only  to 
pass  through  it;  Francis  prevailing  on  Godfrey,  'not- 


1772]  NAPLES.  307 

withstanding  his  apprehension  of  the  aria  cattiva,  so 
ridiculously  magnified  by  travellers,'  to  lie  one  night  in 
Eome,  for  the  sake  of  seeing  the  Pantheon. 

They  reached  Naples  September  2,  and  made  it  their 
head-quarters  for  the  rest  of  the  month.  The  following 
tariff  of  daily  expenditure  of  two  Englishmen  at  '  Ema- 
nuel's,'  '  a  very  pleasant,  agreeable  lodging  on  the  sea- 
side,' may  serve  by  way  of  comparison  with  that  of  a 
century  later. 


Dinner  10  carlins  each 
Supper  5  do.  each    . 
Breakfast  3  do.  each 
Chariot 
Coachman   . 
Valet  de  place 
Lodgings     .  . 


20 
10 

6 
16 

2 

4 
15 

73  =  ahout  U  Is.  Od. 


They  suffered  severely  from  heat,  dust,  and  mosqtiitos, 
and  what  they  considered  the  arrogant  pretensions  of  the 
nobility,  to  one  of  whom  (the  Prince  Franca  villa)  they  had 
to  give  up  their  lodgings.  '  These  princes  are  apt  to 
think  themselves  great  persons.  This  is  certainly  the 
country  of  titles.  There  are  princesses  who  are  not  ad- 
mitted to  court  because  they  have  not  clothes  to  appear  in. 
A  tailor  is  magnifico,  a  dancing-master  most  illustrious.' 
They  visited  the  court,  and  attended  one  or  two  court 
balls,  but  seem  chiefly  to  have  lived  with  two  or  three 
English — Mr.  Smith  Parry,  Mr.  Hart,  Mr.  Young.  Of 
scenery  or  of  art  nothing  is  said.  '  Went  to  Vesuvius, 
climbed  up  a  little  of  it  with  great  fatigue,  then  gave  it 
up.'  '  Went  to  Pompeia,  a  most  miserable  journey  of 
about  fourteen  miles,  through  a  cloud  of  dust  and 
powdered  ashes.  As  for  the  antiquities,  I  would  not 
walk  ten  yards  to  see  them ! '  It  should  be  added,  in 
mitigation,  that  they  were  both  ill,  having  caught  the 

x  2 


308  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

malaria  fever  in  the  Pontine  marshes,  and  that  the  sirocco 
— a  Neapolitan  September  sirocco — was  blowing  most  of 
the  time. 

They  left  Naples  October  4,  and  '  dined  at  Capua  on 
their  own  provisions.  Here  old  Hannibal  might  now  quarter 
his  army  in  safety  ! '  They  got  '  an  admirable  lodging  ' 
at  Rome  near  the  Piazza  di  Spagna,  for  twelve  pauls  a 
day.  Here  they  fell  into  the  hands  of  an  Abbe  Grant, 
who  acted  as  their  cicerone  and  purveyor,  and  procured 
them  the  honour  of  an  interview  with  Pope  Clement  XIV. 
at  Castel  Gandolfo.  The  incidents  of  this  interview  (on 
which  Francis  loved  to  dwell  in  after  life)  are  described 
in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Campbell,  to  which  reference  will  pre- 
sently be  made.  The  remaining  details  of  their  stay  at 
Borne  relate  only  to  the  ordinary  subjects  of  tourists — 
sight-seeing  and  extortion.  *  What  a  set  of  vultures  have 
we  escaped  from  !  (he  writes,  on  leaving  it.)  The  worthy 
Abbe  Grant,  who  attended  us  but  one  day,  and  who 
refused  to  take  money  from  Mr.  Godfrey,  was  resolved, 
however,  not  to  lose  anything  by  us.  By  his  advice 
we  gave  the  Pope's  servants  two  sequins  ;  at  the  convent 
he  desired  us  to  give  him  four  sequins,  which  he  said  he 
would  leave  with  the  father  guardian,  by  way  of  charity ; 
at  parting,  he  obliged  Mr.  Godfrey  to  give  him  six  sequins 
for  a  fan  not  worth  one  ;  and,  to  crown  all,  his  servant 
took  care  to  come  to  wish  us  a  good  journey!  We 
were  curious  to  see  the  Pretender  and  his  wife ;  but  this 
gentleman  had  his  reason  for  not  showing  us  the  way. 
Yet  the  time  has  been  when  Abbe  Grant  would  not  have 
been  so  scrupulous.' 

On  October  22  Francis  finds  himself  at  Eadicofani. 
'  Mem.  It  was  determined  by  Fate  that  I  should  complete 
my  thirty-second  year  in  the  territories  of  the  Grand  Duke. 
I  wish  I  were  sure  of  completing  as  many  more  in  the 


1772]  ROME  AND  FLORENCE.  809 

territories  of  any  prince  upon  earth,  even  the  Emperor  of 
Angola.'  Spending  some  days  at  Pisa,  Leghorn,  Lucca 
(with  which  he  was  much  pleased,  and  where  he  descants 
on  the  indolence  of  the  nobility  and  the  prevalence  of 
cicisbeism),  and  leaving  Godfrey  at  Pistoia  with  some  rela- 
tions, Francis  reached  Florence,  '  Vanini's,'  on  the  29th, 
where  he  records  little  but  illness  and  dulness  in  the  ab- 
sence of  Godfrey ;  but  dines  at  the  British  Envoy  Sir 
Horace  Mann's,  '  a  large  company,  handsome  dinner,  and 
well  served.  Among  the  rest,  the  dear  Lord  Tylney  and 
his  supposed  nephew  Jo.  .  .  .  Travelling,  perhaps,  may 
polish  the  manner  of  our  youth,  but  quasre  whether  the 
Italian  polish  be  worth  the  price  we  pay  for  it.'  Ee- 
joined  by  his  companion,  he  proceeds  homeward;  and 
nothing  of  interest  occurs  in  their  return  by  Turin,  Mont 
Cenis,  and  Lyons,  until  they  reach  Paris,  November  28. 
On  the  30th  '  met  Mr.  Eosenhagen,1  en  frac,  hat  and 

1  This  clerical  schoolfellow  and  intimate  of  Francis  was  passing  his  time  on 
the  Continent  under  not  very  reputable  circumstances,  if  it  is  right  to  place 
any  reliance  on  the  following  extract  from  a  scandalous  publication  of  the 
day,  the  '  Town  and  Country  Magazine  '  for  1776  : — 

'Extract  of  a  Letter  from  Paris, 

1  We  have  a  phenomenon  here,  an  English  parson,  the  descendant  of  a 
German  minister.  His  name  is  R — s — h — gen.  He  was  chaplain  to  an 
English  regiment ;  but  being  a  very  active  man,  and  abusive  writer  on  the 
side  of  opposition,  he  found  himself  under  the  necessity  of  retiring,  and 
commenced  chevalier  d'industrie  at  large.  He  was  not  unacquainted  with 
the  finesses  at  play,  and  availed  himself  of  them  upon  every  occasion. 
However,  as  this  commerce  is  not  the  most  certain  in  the  world,  he  found 
it  expedient  to  extend  his  credit  upon  paper  to  a  very  "considerable  amount. 
When  the  bills  became  due,  he  sought  refuge  in  the  verge  of  the  court ; 
but  even  here  his  liberty  became  perilous,  and  he  judged  it  prudent  to 
make  a  trip  to  the  Continent.  He  went  to  the  south  of  France,  and 
sojourned  for  a  considerable  time  at  Lyons ;  here  it  was  necessary  to  call 

his  adroitness  into  play,  by  which,  under  the  sanction  of  Mrs.  P 1  (Lady 

L — g — n — r's  mother),  who  was  his  patroness,  and  with  whom  he  lived  on 
the  strictest  intimacy  for  some  time,  his  hours  glided  in  ease  and  luxury. 
But  a  disagreeable  discovery  of  an  operation  at  Lansquenette  induced  him 


310  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

feather :  by  much  the  most  important  person  that 
we  have  met  with  in  our  travels.  Hand  and  glove 
with  the  first  people  in  the  kingdom.  A  thorough 
Frenchman,  professing  a  contempt  for  everything  that 
belongs  to  the  country.'  They  remained  in  Paris  ten 
days.  Francis  speaks  of  it  as  if  not  unfamiliar  with 
the  city,  but  says  nothing  of  former  visits.  He  obtains 
his  passport  from  Colonel  St.  Paul,  secretary  to  the 
Britisli  Embassy,  and  receives  from  him  despatches  for 
the  Secretary  of  State.  'When  this  gentleman  killed 
Dal  ton,  his  name  was  plain  Paul.  It  has  been  wittily 
said  of  him  that  he  went  out  a  murderer  and  returned  a 
Saint.'  Crossing  from  Calais,  Francis  '  breakfasted  at 
Ingress,'  on  December  14  (Calcraft,  his  friend,  had  died 
there  in  his  absence,  on  August  23),  and  '  arrived  in  Duke 

to  quit  that  city  a  la  sourdine,  and  to  repair  to  this  metropolis.  He  had 

not  been  here  long  before  he  made  acquaintance  with  Madame  L ,  who 

being  upon  the  haut-ton  of  demireps,  she  was  caressed  by  persons  of  the 
first  rank.  Her  house  is  now  the  belle  assemble  of  first-rate  ladies  of  her 
complexion,  and  wherever  they  resort  the  men  will  go.  Cards  form  the 
greatest  part  of  the  enjoyment  of  these  parties.  Deep  play  is  the  word 
every  night ;  the  ladies  fleece  their  male  friends  with  impunity,  and  the 
parson  has  a  fellow-feeling.  Besides,  as  he  is  a  scholar,  and  a  man  of 
address,  he  easily  ingratiates  himself  with  his  countrymen,  who  think  them- 
selves honoured  to  be  introduced  to  a  real  marquis  and  an  imaginary 
countess.  Clericus  has  been  very  successful  in  these  pursuits  for  some  time, 
as  an  English  baronet  and  a  Welch  'squire  can  testify.  Notwithstanding 

these  nocturnal  revels,  R is  seen  every  forenoon  reading  his  Tacitus  in 

the  Thuilleries  or  the  Palais  Royal,  with  as  much  gravity  and  composure 
as  if  the  whole  night  had  been  devoted  to  study.' 

Rosenhagen  is  said,  in  other  papers  of  the  time,  to  have  resided  at  Orleans 
in  ]  774  with  his  wife,  the  sister  of  a  well-known  Mrs.  Grosvenor. 

Godfrey  (who  had  remained  in  Paris  a  few  days  after  Francis's  departure) 
writes  to  the  latter  on  December  15,  1772,  an  account  of  a  very  convivial 
party  in  which  '  Rosenhagen  and  I  very  calmly  drank  two  bottles  of  cham- 
pagne and  four  of  Burgundy,'  and  of  a  quarrel  with  the  landlady,  which 
ended  by  Rosenhagen  'concluding  a  long  speech  to  her  in  these  words, 
which  he  pronounced  with  singular  animation  :  "  Madame,  j'ai  1'honneur  de 

vous  dire  que  vous  etes  gueuse,  que  vos  filles  sont et  que  monsieur 

votre  rnari  est  bete  et  cocu."  I  never  laughed  more  in  my  life,  nor  he  j 
he  was  really  inspired.' 


1772]  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  311 

Street  about  noon,  as  happy  to  return  as  I  was  to  set 
out.' 

Francis  communicated  a  better  account  of  his  inter- 
view with  the  Pope  than  is  to  be  found  in  his  journal  to 
his  friend  Dr.  Campbell,1  in  the  following  letter  from 
Eome.  (It  was  printed  some  years  ago  in  the  '  Athena3um ' 
newspaper.) 

Eome,  October  17,  1772. 

Dear  Sir, — At  last  I  have  an  opportunity  of  keeping  the  promise 
you  were  so  kind  as  to  exact  from  me,  when  I  left  England.  I  have 
not  been  unmindful  of  my  engagement,  but  I  wished  to  perform  it 
a  little  more  to  your  satisfaction,  than  by  a  detail  of  the  ordinary 
occurrences  of  a  journey,  or  the  common  observations  of  travellers. 
You  are  not  to  be  entertained  with  the  rattling  of  French  roads,  the 
famine  of  an  Italian  inn,  or  the  velocity  of  postilions  within  a  given 
time.  As  for  pictures  and  statues,  I  have  really  seen  so  many  that 
I  remember  nothing.  In  a  very  large  mixed  company,  one  seldom 
contracts  a  lasting  acquaintance.  Neither  would  my  advice  be  of 
much  use  to  you,  for  I  fancy  at  present  you  have  no  thoughts  of 
travelling.  But,  my  good  and  worthy  friend,  I  have  the  pleasure  of 
thinking  that  I  can  meet  you  upon  your  own  ground,  upon  your 
favourite  topic,  a  great  and  good  prince  who  does  honour  to  a  throne. 
I  know  to  whom  this  glorious  character  most  eminently  belongs. 
Yet,  trust  me,  there  are  princely  virtues  on  both  sides  the  Alps. 
The  present  Roman  pontiff  is  worthy  of  his  station.  He  had  no 
family  connexions,  he  had  no  private  interest  nor  foreign  protection, 
and  circumstanced  as  the  affairs  of  the  Holy  See  then  were,  it  was 
impossible  for  him  to  have  been  Pope  if  he  had  not  deserved  it. 
Yet  it  is  not  his  personal  merit  I  admire  so  much  as  the  ready  con- 
currence of  so  many  rivals  to  acknowledge  and  reward  it.  The 
success  of  his  administration  he  piously  attributes  to  the  goodness 
of  Providence.  His  modesty  will  not  suffer  him  to  insist  upon  the 
influence  of  second  causes.  As  to  matters  of  religion,  I  would  not 
debate  the  point  with  him.  In  worldly  affairs,  I  believe  we  may 
affirm  that  common  men  are  not  usually  the  instruments  of  wise 
councils  or  of  important  events.  At  his  accession  to  the  pontificate, 


1  Author  of  the '  Political  Survey  of  Great  Britain,'  1774.  He  took  an  active 
part  in  the  debates  of  the  Court  of  Proprietors  at  the  India  House,  and  was 
a  strong  partisan  on  the  side  of  Francis  until  his  death  (December  1775"). 
His  house  in  Queen  Street,  Bloomsbury,  was  much  frequented  by  literary 
and  other  distinguished  men.  Francis  took  out  to  India  with  him  a  son  of 
this  gentleman,  who  died  on  the  voyage. 


312  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

he  found  the  affairs  of  the  Church  in  the  utmost  disorder.  Portugal 
totally  alienated  ;  France  dissatisfied  ;  Spain  little  less  than  hostile ; 
and  Naples  actually  in  arms  upon  the  frontier.  Scarcely  had  he 
reigned  a  twelvemonth,  when  everyone  of  these  untoward  circum- 
stances was  reversed.  I  ask  no  other  proof  of  the  wisdom  of  his 
councils.  As  for  his  personal  deportment,  I  can  affirm  from  ex- 
perience that  it  corresponds  with  his  public  character,  and  contri- 
butes to  adorn  it.  A  great  man  preserves  his  dignity,  even  when 
he  wishes  to  lay  it  aside,  and  discovers  the  force  of  his  abilities 
while  he  seems  to  make  no  use  of  them.  The  bow  is  unbent,  but  we 
may  judge  how  far  it  carries. 

After  seeing  the  Laocoon,  Meleager,  and  Apollo,  the  next  thing  to 
be  seen  was  the  Pope.  We  had  heard  that  Englishmen  were  well 
received  by  him.  His  Holiness  takes  every  opportunity  of  honouring 
them  with  the  most  distinguished  marks  of  his  regard.  This  con- 
descension of  course  encourages  them  to  wait  upon  him ;  and  even 
without  it,  I  think  it  would  be  absurd  to  see  Rome  and  not  to  visit 
the  head  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  His  Holiness  being  in  the 
country  it  was  necessary  to  send  beforehand,  to  know  at  what  time 
we  might  be  admitted  to  his  presence.  This  part  of  the  business 
was  arranged  for  us  by  Abbe  Grant,  to  whose  friendship  and  polite- 
ness we  are  much  indebted.  An  answer  was  quickly  returned,  that 
the  Pope  would  be  happy  to  receive  us  whenever  we  should  do  him 
that  honour,  for  so  he  was  pleased  to  express  himself.  The  day 
before  yesterday  we  accordingly  set  out  for  Castello  Gandolfo,  under 
the  auspices  of  our  friend  the  Abbe.  The  Master  of  the  Ceremonies 
happening  to  be  out  of  the  way,  we  were  obliged  to  wait  about  twenty 
minutes  in  an  antechamber,  for  which  his  Holiness  condescended  to 
make  us  a  multitude  of  excuses.  The  moment  he  knew  we  were 
arrived,  he  ordered  us  to  be  admitted,  and  received  us  at  the  door 
of  his  chamber  with  an  exclamation  expressive  both  of  satisfaction 
and  goodwill.  I  never  saw  a  more  venerable  nor  a  more  benevolent 
countenance,  yet  not  unmixed  with  keenness  and  sagacity.  Instead 
of  permitting  us  to  observe  the  usual  ceremony  of  kissing  his  slipper, 
he  insisted  upon  our  sitting  down  by  him  upon  a  little  sopha,  a  dis- 
tinction of  which  we  are  assured  there  never  was  an  instance  before. 
Our  introducer,  who  has  been  accustomed  to  see  English  gentlemen 
well  received,  was- at  least  as  much  astonished  as  we  were  at  finding 
himself  seated  in  the  Pope's  presence.  In  a  moment  his  Holiness 
began  the  conversation,  with  the  utmost  familiarity  and  good  humour ; 
and  as  it  was  my  chance  to  sit  very  close  to  him,  he  frequently  laid 
his  arm  upon  my  shoulder,  and  always  called  me  caro  mio  figlio. 
This,  and  cnri  miei  signori,  was  his  constant  address  to  us  both. 


1772]  INTERVIEW  WITH  THE  POPE.  313 

But  whatever  he  said  or  did  was  accompanied  with  an  ease  and 
cheerfulness,  that  without  lessening  the  reverence  due  to  so  great  a 
person  banished  all  restraint.  His  discourse  was  rapid,  and  in- 
cluded a  variety  of  topics  ;  yet  there  was  none  upon  which  he  seemed 
to  dwell  with  greater  pleasure  than  upon  his  esteem  and  affection 
for  the  British  nation.  I  acknowledged  how  much  we  were  obliged  to 
him  for  this  favourable  opinion,  but  he  insisted  vehemently  that 
we  were  only  obliged  to  ourselves  ;  that  his  regard  for  us  was  well 
known,  and  that  he  was  pleased  the  world  should  take  notice  of  it. 
He  informed  us  that  the  Venetians,  having  lately  doubled  the  duty 
upon  English  salt-fish  imported  into  Venice  at  second  hand  from 
Civita  Vecchia  and  Ancona,  and  havingfound themselves  disappointed 
in  the  produce  of  that  duty,  had  accused  him  of  having  formed  a 
commercial  treaty  with  Great  Britain ;  and  that  his  nuncio  at  Co- 
logne, having  asked  leave  to  visit  England  last  summer  incognito,  it 
had  been  industriously  reported  that  his  Holiness  had  sent  him  thither 
upon  some  special  commission.  He  laughed  heartily  at  these  reports, 
and  wished  they  had  been  better  founded.  He  assured  us  that  if  he  had 
been  Pope  in  the  time  of  Harry  the  Eighth,  he  would  have  prevented 
that  unfortunate  separation  of  England ;  that  Clement  the  Seventh 
was  a  weak  man,  and  duped  by  Charles  the  Fifth  ;  and  Wolsey  a 
man  of  abilities,  but  blinded  by  his  ambition ;  that  the  same  temper 
and  moderation  on  the  part  of  the  Holy  See,  which  had  lately  re- 
covered Portugal,  would  probably  have  preserved  England.  On  his 
mentioning  Portugal,  I  took  the  liberty  of  telling  his  Holiness,  that 
I  was  at  Lisbon  when  Cardinal  Aiaccioli  was  so  disgracefully  dis- 
missed, and  that  I  had  the  honour  of  being  known  to  the  Marquis  of 
Pombal.  This  circumstance  seemed  to  lead  his  Holiness  to  enter 
largely  upon  the  late  reconciliation  with  that  court.  His  manage- 
ment of  it  undoubtedly  does  him  honour.  It  was  the  first  measure 
of  his  government,  and  the  success  of  it  has  fully  answered  the  rec- 
titude and  piety  of  his  intentions.  He  said  that  the  instructions 
given  to  Cardinal  Aiaccioli  were  certainly  injudicious,  and  that  the 
Cardinal's  zeal  in  carrying  them  into  execution  was,  in  his  opinion, 
rather  more  to  be  commended  than  his  discretion.  That,  upon  his 
accession  to  the  Pontificate,  the  first  object  he  aimed  at  was  to  re- 
concile Portugal  to  the  Holy  See.  That  he  immediately  appointed 
Monsignor  Conti  (a  name  highly  grateful  to  that  nation)  to  be  his 
nuncio  to  the  court  of  Lisbon,  and  had  given  him  no  other  instructions 
whatsoever,  but  to  carry  with  him  Galateo  and  the  Decalogue!  (You 
may  not  know  perhaps  that  Galateo  is  a  book  much  esteemed  here  for 
the  rules  it  contains  of  civility  and  politeness.)  That  his  letter  to 
the  Marquis  of  Pombal  was  cordial  and  unaffected ;  reminding  him 


314  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

of  his  former  attachment  to  the  interests  of  the  Church,  when  he 
was  minister  at  Vienna,  and  expressing  a  confidence  in  his  piety,  and 
in  his  well-known  zeal  for  the  support  of  the  Catholic  religion  ;  that 
if  the  King  of  Portugal  wished  for  the  nomination  of  a  cardinal,  he 
was  ready  to  grant  it ;  and  that,  in  short,  he  desired  a  reconciliation 
with  the  court  of  Lisbon,  upon  no  other  conditions,  but  such  as 
might  best  express  his  paternal  tenderness  and  affection  for  his  most 
faithful  Majesty.  This  language,  said  his  Holiness,  came  directly 
from  my  heart,  and  it  pleased  God  to  give  it  success. 

If  I  were  to  repeat  to  you  the  many  just  observations  he  made 
upon  this  event,  as  well  as  upon  the  means  he  constantly  employed 
to  maintain  a  good  understanding  and  correspondence  with  the 
Princes  of  the  House  of  Bourbon,  I  should  write  you  a  letter  too 
long  for  an  ambassador.  As  there  was  no  formality,  so  there  was 
no  exact  order  in  his  discourse.  The  most  serious  parts  of  his  con- 
versation were  mixed  with  expressions  of  personal  kindness  and  at- 
tention to  us  his  humble  audience.  He  spoke  of  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester  with  tenderness  and  regard,  and  seems  sensibly  touched 
with  the  acknowledgments  his  Royal  Highness  had  made  him  of 
the  civilities  he  had  received  at  Rome.  He  also  mentioned  a  late 
Declaration,  but  in  the  most  moderate  and  guarded  terms.  From 
these  subjects  he  descended  to  enquire  how  we  had  passed  our  time 
at  Naples  and  Rome,  where  we  dined,  and  what  was  our  plan  of 
amusement  for  the  day.  We  told  him  we  had  provided  a  dinner, 
and  meant  to  eat  it  at  a  Franciscan  convent  in  the  neighbourhood. 
He  then  was  pleased  to  conduct  us  through  the  apartments  of  the 
castle,  opened  all  the  casements  himself,  and  pointed  out  to  us  the 
most  striking  parts  of  the  prospect.  At  parting  he  attended  us  to 
the  outer  door  of  his  apartments,  gave  us  his  benediction,  and  said 
that,  being  in  the  country,  he  was  sorry  he  had  nothing  to  offer  us 
by  way  of  ricnrdo  or  token  of  remembrance.  After  a  short  walk 
we  returned  to  the  convent,  and  found  that  he  had  sent  us  six 
bottles  of  Burgundy,  and  a  large  pasticcio  from  his  own  table.  The 
good  Franciscans  omitted  nothing  in  their  power  to  show  their  hospi- 
tality, nor  were  they  unwilling  to  drink  long  life  to  their  holy  Father 
in  his  own  wine  ;  but  this  with  moderation. 

Our  obligations  to  his  Holiness  were  not  to  end  here.  In 
going  to  Castello  our  axletree  unfortunately  broke.  We  had  it 
patched  up,  but  it  broke  down  again  within  a  hundred  yards  of  the 
castle.  There  was  no  remedy  but  to  apply  to  the  Pope's  Master  of 
the  Horse  for  a  carriage  to  convey  us  to  Rome.  He  asked  his 
Holiness's  permission,  and  it  was  granted  immediately  with  a 


1772]  'HINTS  TO  A  TRAVELLER.'  315 

readiness  to  which  I  should  be  far  from  doing  justice  if  I  called  it 
only  polite. 

This  letter  you  may  consider  as  an  involuntary  effusion  of  grati- 
tude for  favours  great  and  unmerited.  I  expect  that  you  will  share 
with  me  in  the  pleasure  of  this  day.  It  was  a  pleasure  not  only  high 
in  degree,  but  of  the  purest  sort,  for  it  was  unattended  with  regret. 
Though  not  a  convert  to  the  doctrines  of  this  Church,  I  am  a  prose- 
lyte to  the  Pope.  Whoever  has  the  honour  of  conversing  with  him 
will  see  that  it  is  possible  to  be  a  Papist  without  being  a  Roman 
Catholic. 

I  will  not  conclude  without  a  formal  protest  against  your  taking 
the  trouble  of  answering  this  letter.  I  know  your  punctuality  in 
these  matters  ;  but  I  also  know  how  much  better  and  more  usefully 
you  are  employed.  In  piMica  commoda  peccem.  A  line  from  my 
old  friend  and  fellow-labourer,  to  acknowledge  the  receipt,  will  be 
quite  sufficient.  He  will  be  so  good  as  to  direct  it  to  the  care  of 
Messieurs  le  Coulteux,  at  Paris.  In  a  few  weeks  I  promise  myself 
the  pleasure  of  seeing  you.  My  friend  James,  by  whom  I  wish  to 
be  kindly  remembered,  is  a  ready  penman,  and  will  give  me  the 
news  of  the  day.  I  have  not  been  long  enough  out  of  England  to 
be  indifferent  about  politics.  I  beg  of  you  to  present  my  best  compli- 
ments and  sincerest  good  wishes  to  Mrs.  Campbell,  and  that  you 
will  believe  me,  with  truth  and  affection, 

Yours, 

P.  FEANCIS. 

P.S.  To  show  you  that  I  have  not  travelled  over  classic  ground 
without  improving  my  faculties,  I  send  you  an  epigram,  of  my  own 
conception,  upon  a  marvellous  antique  lion  in  the  Medici  palace. 
Modern  lions  are  mere  whelps  to  him.  This,  I  take  it,  is  a  per- 
formance that  would  do  no  dishonour  to  the  pen  of  Scriblerus. 
But,  good  or  bad,  I  am  sure  you  would  forgive  the  poetry  if  you 
saw  the  subject  of  it.  The  sight  of  such  an  animal  inspires  nothing 

but  fear. 

Ungue  oculoque  minax,  orisque  horrendus  hiatu, 

Imperia  in  silvis  tristia  solus  habet. 
Hunc  catuli  fugiunt,  conjux,  fulvique  parentes  j 

Vix  domini  gressus  auserit  umbra  sequi. 

Further  records  of  this  episode  in  Francis's  career  are 
contained  in  a  paper  headed  '  Hints  to  a  Traveller/ 
preserved  in  his  letter-book  of  this  date,  printed  in  the 
Appendix. 

With  regard  to  these  notices  of  travel,  and  especially 


316  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

the  '  Hints,'  the  reader  will  not  fail  to  be  impressed,  and 
unfavourably,  with  the  assumed  tone  of  hardness  of  a  man 
of  the  world — such  as  the  character  is  and  was  too  often 
conceived — the  cynical  affectation  of  profligacy  as  a  quality 
of  good  society,  which  pervades  it.  This  is  unfortunately 
too  characteristic  of  Francis.  Much  must  be  allowed  for 
his  breeding :  for  the  company  kept  in  the  Holland  clique 
and  at  Calcraft's,  the  style  of  which  he,  a  youth  of  some- 
what inferior  position,  was  likely  enough  to  catch  and 
admire.  But  it  is  too  characteristic  also  of  a  large  por- 
tion of  our  social  history,  and  of  our  literature  likewise, 
especially  in  poetry  and  fiction,  from  Dryden  to  Churchill. 
Perhaps  (in  literature)  the  influence  of  Dr.  Johnson  was 
one  of  the  principal  correctives  which  ultimately  purged  us 
of  it.  As  regards  Francis  himself,  the  copious  records  of 
his  life  and  habits,  as  a  young  man,  exhibit  him  as  one 
of  strong  domestic  attachments — fond  to  a  certain  extent 
of  good  company  and  good  wine,  when  he  could  get  it, 
and  with  a  decided  addiction  to  the  card  table — but 
nothing  more.  He  had  not  the  leisure  or  means  to  cul- 
tivate the  vices  of  fashion,  even  if  he  had  the  taste  for 
them.  His  character  rather  appears  that  of  a  man  in 
whom  the  vulgar  passions,  even  if  naturally  strong,  are 
kept  in  check  by  an  overmastering  ambition,  and  by  the 
pressure  of  intellectual  labour.  And  it  is  impossible  not 
to  be  amused  at  the  travelled  air  with  which  he  com- 
municates his  experiences  about '  cicisbeism,'  and  the  inti- 
mate usages  of  Italian  family  life,  when  there  is  no  evidence 
whatever  in  his  minute  diary  that  he  ever  conversed  with 
an  Italian  lady  in  the  whole  course  of  his  travels.  The 
subject,  therefore,  would  be  scarcely  worth  remarking  on, 
were  it  not  for  the  striking  similarity,  as  it  appears  to 
me,  between  his  tone  on  these  subjects  and  that  of  Junius. 
The  superficial  rakishness,  constantly  degenerating  into 


1772]  LEGACY  FROM  CALCRAFT.  317 

coarseness,  which  is  so  frequently  put  on  by  the  latter, 
and  the  forced,  unnatural  manner  in  which  it  contrasts 
with  the  ordinary  severity  of  his  style  and  subject,  has 
often  been  noticed  by  critics.  In  Croker's  opinion,  it 
proved  him  to  be  a  *  young  and  dissolute  man.'  I  should 
rather  say,  one  who  affected  that  character.  Either  way, 
it  is  a  feature  as  marked  in  Francis  as  in  Junius. 

The  reasons  why  Francis,  on  arriving  in  England,  paid 
his  first  visit  to  Ingress,  even  before  he  reached  his 
own  home,  arose  no  doubt  out  of  the  intricate  and 
mysterious  connection  between  him  and  its  deceased 
owner,  Mr.  Calcraft.  Francis  appears  (according  to  Mr. 
Parkes)  to  have  got  back  from  Mr.  Calcraft's  executors 
all  his  own  letters.  Whether  these  disclosed  any  ac- 
quaintance on  the  part  of  Calcraft  with  the  great  Junius 
secret  must  be  left  to  conjecture :  it  is  difficult  (as  has 
been  seen)  either  to  believe  or  disbelieve  it.  But,  in  the 
next  place,  Francis  had  to  see  after  the  legacy  bequeathed 
him  by  his  deceased  patron.  The  following  are  the  two 
codicils  of  Calcraft's  will  which  concern  this  matter. 
Francis  could  not  obtain  his  legacy  without  the  help  of  the 
Court  of  Chancery,  as  he  complains  in  his  fragment  of 
autobiography. 

January  23,  1772. 

In  consideration  of  my  regard  and  esteem  for  my  friend  Philip 
Francis,  of  Duke  Street,  Westminster,  Esq.,  and  from  the  sense  I 
have  of  his  real  ability  to  be  an  useful  representative  in  Parliament, 
it  is  my  intention  to  endeavour  to  procure  him  to  be  elected  and 
returned  for  the  first  vacancy  in  the  borough  of  Wareham.  And 
in  case  of  my  death  in  the  minority  of  my  sons,  who  will  become 
respectively  entitled  to  my  estates  in  Dorsetshire  by  virtue  of  my 
will,  I  do  request  and  enjoin  my  executors  and  the  guardians  and 
trustees  of  and  for  such  sons  during  such  minority  to  use  their  in- 
terest and  endeavours  to  cause  the  said  Philip  Francis  to  be  elected 
and  returned  a  member  to  serve  in  Parliament  for  the  said  borough, 
as  witness  my  hand. 

JNO.  CALCRAFT. 


318  MEMOIRS  OF    SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1772 

March  24,  1772. 

Also,  I  give  unto  my  much  respected  friend  Philip  Francis, 
of  Duke  Street,  Westminster,  Esq.,  the  sum  of  one  thousand  pounds, 
to  be  paid  to  him  within  six  months  next  after  my  decease ;  and  in 
case  the  said  Philip  Francis  shall  depart  this  life  leaving  his  present 
wife  without  a  provision  equal  in  value  to  three  hundred  pounds  a 
year,  then  and  in  such  case  I  give  to  her  an  annuity  of  two  hundred 
pounds  out  of  my  estates  to  be  paid  to  her  during  so  long  as  she 
shall  continue  the  widow  of  the  said  Philip  Francis,  by  half-yearly 
payments  clear  of  all  deductions,  for  the  better  support  and  main- 
tenance of  her  and  her  family.  And  I  direct  the  said  annuity  in 
such  case  to  be  effectually  secured  out  of  some  part  of  my  estates, 
and  that  the  first  half-yearly  payment  shall  begin  at  the  expiration 
of  six  months  from  the  death  of  the  said  Philip  Francis. 

The  following  curious  memorandum  of  Calcraft,  written 
only  six  weeks  before  his  death,  gives  the  last  directions 
of  the  departing  '  wire-puller': — 

In  case  of  a  vacancy  at  Wareham,1  I  would  desire  Mr.  William 
(his  executor)  to  go  down  and  choose  Mr.  Francis.  He  will  be  at 
home  about  Christmas,  and  ready  to  attend  him.  In  case  of  another 
[vacancy  ?]  during  this  Parliament,  though  very  improbable,  the 
three  persons  I  think  of  are  Mr  Hulse,  though  I  can't  promise 
him,  at  the  general  election,  Mr.  Godfrey,  whom  Mr.  Francis  will 
inform  you  about,  or  Mr.  Lucas's  brother  George,  or  General  John 
Hale  of  Gisborough,  Yorkshire.  At  Poole,  if  John  Pitt  2  chooses  to 
be  elected  as  my  member  there,  he  should  have  the  preference, 
joining  hand  and  heart  and  remembering  the  former  agreement.  If 
not  .... 

At  Rochester  I  hope  to  be  chose  :  3  but  I  will  also  be  elected  with 
Mr.  Francis  at  Wareham. 

Sent  2,500Z.  Scarborough     .... 

Francis,  on  his  arrival  in  England,  is  met  by  the  follow- 

1  We  have  seen  that  Mr.  Calcraft  acquired  his  interest  at  Wareham  by 
purchasing  the  estates  of  the  Pitt  and  Drax  families  there  in  1767. 

3  If  this  Mr.  John  Pitt  was  connected  with  the  '  Surveyor  of  Forests,'  and 
was  one  of  the  associates  of  Calcraft  and  Francis,  the  peculiar  information 
and  interest  exhibited  by  Francis  in  the  matter  of  the  Wiiittlebury  Forest 
Grant  (Junius,  September  28,  1771)  may  perhaps  be  accounted  for. 

8  <  The  death  of  Calcraft,'  writes  the  King  to  Lord  North,  August  24, 
'  will,  I  trust,  bring  the  borough  of  Rochester  into  its  ancient  hands.' 


1772]  DEATH  OF  DR.  FRANCIS.  819 

ing  mysterious  letter  from  his  close  friend  D'Oyly,  of  which 
I  cannot  offer  any  explanation  : — 

Tylney  Hall,  December  1,  1773. 

My  dear  Francis, — Calcraft's  will  is  locked  up  at  my  house,  but  I 
shall  be  in  town  next  Monday,  and  will  have  your  point  about  the 
[legacy  ?]  well  considered  before  your  return  from  Bath.  You 
acted  spiritedly  to  take  the  first  opportunity  of  talking  with  L.  N".  (?) 
about  Wm.,  and  I  am  glad  that  he  behaved  properly  on  the  occa- 
sion. Don't  lose  your  money  at  Bath,  or  play  much.  Everybody  is 
observing  your  actions.  Adieu.  I  am, 

Ever  yours  most  affectionately, 

CHE,  D'OYLY. 
Just  going  a-shooting. 

Immediately  after  his  arrival  in  Duke  Street,  Francis 
was  summoned  (as  his  fragment  of  autobiography  informs 
us)  to  the  bedside  of  his  father,  whose  strength  was  now 
failing  him.  Why — unless  in  pursuance  of  some  of  his 
mysterious  plans — Francis  should  have  desired  his  father's 
state  to  be  kept  secret,  according  to  the  directions  given 
in  the  following  letter  to  his  wife,  it  is  impossible  to 
conjecture. 

Bath,  January  3,  1773. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — I  got  here  yesterday  afternoon  a  little  after 
five,  had  very  fine  weather  and  agreeable  journey.  My  poor  father's 
condition  would  be  the  most  deplorable  that  can  be  conceived,  if  he 
himself  were  in  any  degree  sensible  of  it.  As  it  is,  the  sight  is  only 
distressing  to  those  about  him.  Sally  is  well  and  does  all  she  can. 
He  does  not  know  me,  nor  indeed  does  he  seem  conscious  of  any- 
thing. Keep  this  to  yourself.  If  you  see  Stephen,  bid  him  tell 
Mr.  Macro  that  my  father  is  much  better  than  usual  in  his  health 
and  spirits.  I  have  just  sent  to  know  how  Mrs.  and  Mr.  Chandler 
are,  and  hear  they  are  both  very  well.  Walsh  is  not  at  Bath. 
Love  and  duty  to  all  the  children. 

Yours  most  affectionately, 

P.  F. 

Mrs.  Chandler  has  just  sent  a  servant  to  knock  at  the  door,  but, 
finding  you  were  not  at  Bath,  came  no  further. 

Francis's  absence  from  London  on  this  occasion  exactly 
tallies  with  the  date  of  the  single  letter  addressed  by 


320  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

Junius  to  Woodfall  subsequently  to  Francis's  departure 
on  his  tour.  That  note  is  of  the  date  January  19, 
1773,  the  last  prior  communication  of  Junius  being  on 
May  16,  1772.  The  silence  therefore  exactly  extends 
over  Francis's  absence.  Writing  to  his  wife  from  Bath, 
January  9,  1773,  Francis  tells  her,  'I  shall  leave  this 
either  Tuesday  or  Wednesday.'  The  latter  day  would  be 
January  13.  Why  this  letter  of  January  19  was  not  ac- 
knowledged in  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  until  March  8 — 
4  Answer  to  correspondents :  The  letter  from  an  old 
friend  and  correspondent,  dated  Jan.  19,  came  safe  to 
hand ' — I  cannot  explain. 

The  long-expected  decease  of  Dr.  Francis  took  place 
on  March  5.  The  following  death-bed  memorandum 
speaks  for  itself.  Whatever  other  sins  may  be  laid  to 
the  account  of  Philip  Francis,  he  ever  discharged  to  his 
father  the  duties  of  a  faithful  and  affectionate  son,  and 
their  mutual  attachment  seems  only  to  have  been  inter- 
rupted by  their  brief  quarrel  about  his  engagement  to 
Miss  Macrabie. 

I  have  desired  my  ever  faithful  Sally  not  to  send  you  this  paper 
until  the  wretched  writer  shall  be  no  more.  Take,  then,  my  dearest 
Phil.,  my  last  farewell.  Take  all  my  thanks,  for  your  kindness  and 
tenderness,  your  care  and  punctuality  in  my  affairs.  With  regard 
to  this  world,  I  have  only  to  hope  that  the  money  arising  from  Mr. 
Jennings'  bond  may  be  remitted  to  Sally,  to  pay  the  expense  of 
burying  me,  with  my  servant's  wages  and  the  present  quarter's  rent 
of  my  house.  I  have  no  other  debts. 

I  am  no  longer  able  to  hold  my  pen,  and  I  shall  end  with  my  best 
assurances  of  my  affection  and  esteem  for  you  and  all  your  family. 
Farewell  for  ever  !  

I  received  this  letter  on  Monday,  March  8,  1773.  My  good 
father  died  on  the  preceding  Friday,  at  three  in  the  morning,  at 
Bath. 

P.  FRANCIS. 

Among  the  papers  of  Dr.  Francis,  inserted  together 
with  his  own  in  Philip's  letter-book  of  this  period,  is  one 


1773]  TRANSLATES  PINTO  ON   CIRCULATION.  321 

headed  '  Copied  from  a  foul  draught  of  my  father,'  con- 
taining the  Doctor's  opinion  on  the  character  and  author- 
ship of  Junius.  It  is  inserted  in  the  Appendix  to  this 
volume.  Unless  there  is  some  mystification  concealed 
below  the  surface — and  this  seems  to  me  improbable — it 
is  clear  that  the  Doctor,  though  deeply  interested  in  the 
subject,  was  not  master  of  his  son's  secret,  though  he 
may  have  suspected  it :  clear,  also,  that  he,  who  lived  in 
the 'middle  of  the  Junius  coterie,  had  no  doubt  of  the  real 
unity  of  most  of  the  different  anonymous  writers  in  the 
'  Public  Advertiser.' 

Francis  evidently  derived  no  accession  of  fortune  from 
the  decease  of  his  father,  who  appears  to  have  accumu- 
lated nothing.  Without  place  or  employment,  with  a 
wife  and  several  infant  children  to  provide  for,  his  patron 
Calcraft  dead,  his  political  friends  in  hopeless  opposition, 
his  position  continued  melancholy  in  the  extreme.  Some 
of  the  passages  in  his  fragment  of  autobiography  describe 
it,  and  his  feelings  under  it.  Two  months  after  his  father's 
death,  he  made  the  short  journey  to  the  Hague,  mentioned 
in  the  same  paper :  his  object  being  to  consult  Monsieur 
de  Pinto,  the  author  of  an  '  Essay  on  Circulation,'  with  a 
view  to  translate  it,  with  notes.  This  author  '  received 
him  with  transports  of  joy.  He  was  a  perfect  atheist, 
with  a  benevolent  heart.' l  The  translation  was  published, 
but,  for  some  reason  in  accordance  with  Francis's  habits 
of  mystery,  under  the  name  of  his  kinsman,  the  Eev. 
Stephen  Baggs. 

This  absence  appears  only  to  have  lasted  a  few  days. 

1  Isaac  Pinto,  a  Portuguese  Jew  by  descent,  and  a  literary  man  of  some 
repute,  died  at  the  Hague  in  1787.  Besides  his  '  Traite  de  la  circulation  et 
du  credit,'  he  was  chiefly  known,  in  singular  contrast  to  what  Francis  here 
says  of  him,  as  the  defender  of  the  Jewish  nation  and  Scriptures  against 
certain  imputations  of  Voltaire,  and  the  writer  of  a  '  Precis  des  argumens 
centre  les  mate'rialistes.' 

VOL.  I.  T 


322  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

Immediately  on  his  return  to  England,  the  events  occurred 
which  determined  his  farther  destiny. 

For  the  history  of  the  troubles  which  beset  the  ad 
ministration  of  the  East  India  Company  after  the  return 
of  Olive  in  1766,  and  of  the  Parliamentary  debates  and 
other  proceedings  which  took  place  in  England  respecting 
them,  I  will  only  direct  the  reader  at  present  to  Chapter 
67  of  Lord  Stanhope's  History  of  England,  as  a  convenient 
source  of  reference.  After  resisting  to  the  utmost  of  their 
power  all  projects  of  government  interference,  'it  was 
agreed  (says  his  lordship)  by  the  directors,  that  commis- 
sioners of  enquiry,  under  the  name  of  supervisors, 
should  be  sent  to  India  with  full  powers  over  the  other 
servants  of  the  Company.  Three  gentlemen  of  old 
standing  and  long  service — Mr.  Vansittart,  Mr.  Scrafton, 
and  Colonel  Ford — were  selected  for  this  important  trust. 
Accordingly  they  embarked  on  their  mission  towards 
the  close  of  1769.  But  after  leaving  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope,  the  ship  in  which  they  sailed,  the  Aurora  frigate, 
was  never  heard  of  again ;  it  is  supposed  to  have 
foundered  at  sea. 

'It  is  not  improbable  that  this  system  of  makeshifts 
might  have  been  long  continued,  and  the  necessity  of  any 
more  decisive  measures  been  longer  postponed.  But  in 
the  ensuing  year,  1771,  a  new  and  more  grievous  calamity 
overspread  Bengal.' 

Lord  Stanhope  then  describes  the  terrible  famine  of 
that  year,  equalled  as  yet  by  no  succeeding  visitation  ; 
and  the  accusations  against  the  government  of  the  Com- 
pany which  were  founded  on  it.  He  points  out  the 
financial  difficulties  into  which  the  Company  had  now 
fallen.  In  April  1772,  a  select  committee  of  enquiry  was 
appointed  in  the  Commons.  The  directors  attempted  to 
baffle  it,  by  sending  out  a  new  batch  of  '  supervisors.' 


1773]  INDIA  REGULATING  ACT.  323 

But  Lord  North's  government  overruled  this  manoeuvre. 
In  all  the  proceedings  of  ministers  on  this  subject,  they 
had  up  to  this*  time  the  hearty  support  of  the  king  ;  who 
had  wrought  himself  into  a  high  state  of  indignation,  as 
his  letters  to  Lord  North  show,  against  those  whom  he 
called  the  '  fleecers  of  the  Indies.' 

In  the  spring  of  1773,  Lord  North  proposed  and  carried  through, 
against  all  gainsayers,  his  own  measure  of  reform.  This,  after  it 
had  passed,  was  commonly  called  the  Regulating  Act.  In  the  first 
place,  he  granted  to  the  Company  a  loan  of  1,500,OOOZ.  for  four 
years,  and  relieved  them  from  the  annual  payment  to  the  state  of 
400,OOOZ.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Company  was  restrained  from 
making  any  greater  dividend  than  six  per  cent,  until  the  loan 
should  be  repaid,  or  any  greater  dividend  than  eight  per  cent,  until 
the  public  should  have  some  participation  in  the  profits.  It  was 
then  enacted  that  instead  of  annual  elections  of  the  whole  number 
of  directors  at  the  India  House,  six  should  go  out  of  office  each 
year,  and  none  keep  their  seats  longer  than  four  years.  At  the 
same  time,  the  qualification  for  a  vote  in  each  proprietor  was  raised 
from  500L  to  1,OOOL,  with  more  votes  in  proportion,  up  to  four,  to 
each  proprietor  of  a  larger  sum. 

In  India,  the  Act  provided  that  the  Mayor's  court  of  Calcutta 
should  be  restricted  in  its  jurisdiction  to  petty  cases  of  trade,  and 
that  in  its  place  should  be  constituted  a  Supreme  Court,  to  consist 
of  a  Chief  Justice,  and  three  Puisne  Judges,  appointed  by  the  crown. 
The  Governor  of  Bengal  was  henceforth  to  have  authority  over  the 
other  Presidencies,  as  Governor- General  of  India,  but  was  himself 
to  be  controlled  by  his  council.  In  that  council,  as  previously,  he 
was  entitled  only  to  a  single,  or  in  case  of  equality,  a  casting  vote. 
It  was  proposed  that  these  nominations  should  be  made  by  Parlia- 
ment, and  continue  for  five  years  ;  after  which  they  should  revert  to 
the  directors,  but  subject  to  the  approbation  of  the  crown.  In  the 
progress  therefore  of  the  bill  through  the  Commons,  the  members  of 
the  new  council  were  expressly  named,  so  as  to  become  a  part  of  the 
enactment. l 

The  provisions  of  this  Act  regarding  the  home  govern- 
ment, says  Mr.  Marshman,  in  his  recent '  History  of  India ' 

1  The  powers  of  the  Council  were  to  last  for  five  years  after  the  arrival  of 
the  new  councillors  in  India.  But  this  term  was  prolonged  by  temporary 
Acts  passed  in  1779  and  1780. 

I  2 


324  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

(vol.  i.  p.  341),  were  '  highly  judicious  and  beneficial ; 
but  those  which  referred  to  the  government  in  India, 
concocted  without  knowledge  or  experience,  only  seemed 
to  increase  the  complication  of  affairs,  and  shook  the 
power  of  Britain  in  the  East  to  its  foundation.'  Such 
was  the  general  Anglo-Indian  verdict.  Francis,  on  the 
contrary,  with  the  ardour  of  a  reformer,  thought  the 
i  instructions '  with  which  the  new  councillors  were  ham- 
pered injudiciously  restrictive,  and  only  regretted  the 
want  of  absolute  power  to  reconstruct  the  administration 
of  the  new  empire. 

We  have  seen  that  India  had  for  some  time  occupied  a 
considerable  share  in  Francis's  ambitious  visions  of  the 
future.  He  was,  in  his  small  way,  a  proprietor  of  India 
stock,  and  interested  in  the  affairs  of  the  Company.  As  his 
hopes  of  the  advent  of  Lord  Chatham  and  his  friends  to 
power  grew  fainter,  so  his  desire  to  try  his  fortune  in  the 
country  which  was  in  those  days  the  Eldorado  of  the 
political  adventurer  became  stronger.  The  final  gratifica- 
tion of  his  hope  must  be  described  in  the  language  of  his 
own  autobiographical  fragment. 

It  was  in  vain  to  shut  my  eyes  to  my  situation.  Wherever  I 
went  or  whatever  I  did,  the  spectre  haunted  and  pursued  me.  Mr. 
Alexander  Macrabie  was  lately  returned  from  America.  He  had 
purchased  a  thousand  acres  for  me  in  Pennsylvania,  where  I  meant 
to  secure  a  retreat  for  myself  and  my  family,  if  ever  England  should 
cease  to  be  the  seat  of  freedom.  The  question  now  seriously 
agitated  in  my  mind  was  whether  I  ought  not  to  transplant  myself 
at  once,  and  take  possession  of  this  establishment,  before  my 
little  capital  was  exhausted.  This  was  actually  the  subject  of  a 
dismal  conversation  between  Macrabie  and  me,  on  the  fourth  of 
June  ;  when  we  accidentally  met  with  a  gentleman  in  the  park,  who 
informed  me  that  John  Cholwell,  one  of  the  intended  Commissioners 
for  India,  had  declined  the  nomination.  I  immediately  went  to 
D'Oyly,  who  wrote  to  Grey  Cooper.  It  was  the  King's  birthday, 
and  Barrington  was  gone  to  court.  I  saw  him  the  next  morning. 
As  soon  as  I  had  explained  everything  to  him,  he  wrote  the  hand- 


1773]          APPOINTMENT  TO  COUNCIL  OF  BENGAL.  325 

somest  and  strongest  letter  imaginable  in  my  favour  to  Lord  North. 
Other  interests  contributed,  but  I  owe  my  success  to  Lord  Earrington. 

Such  is  the  only  account  which  Francis  vouchsafes  us 
of  his  extraordinary  promotion,  from  the  position  of  a 
young  and  obscure  retired  clerk  in  the  War  Office,  of  the 
most  adverse  political  antecedents,  to  that  of  a  member  of 
the  new  Council  of  India,  with  a  salary  of  10,000/.  a  year, 
and  power  and  patronage  greater  than  that  possessed  by  a 
minister  of  almost  any  European  country ;  for  such  was 
the  '  little  provender,'  as  Lord  Campbell  calls  it,  thrown 
to  '  the  great  boar  of  the  forest '  on  this  occasion.  As  far 
as  the  outline  of  the  story  goes,  it  is  exactly  corroborated 
by  the  letters  of  George  III.  to  Lord  North.  '  As  to  the 
other  gentlemen  who  have  applied  to  you '  (writes  his 
Majesty  on  June  8),  'I  do  not  know  anything  of  their 
personal  qualifications  except  Mr.  Francis,  who  is  allowed 
to  be  a  man  of  tallents.'  (I  preserve  the  royal  ortho- 
graphy.) Lord  North's  note  of  the  same  day  to  Francis, 
asking  to  see  him,  is  preserved,  endorsed  by  Francis,  '  Con- 
cluded a  long  complimentary  speech  with  desiring  my 
concert,'  &c.  Within  a  few  days  more,  the  Act  passed, 
with  the  title,  '  For  establishing  certain  regulations  for  the 
better  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  East  India  Com- 
pany, as  well  in  India  as  in  England,'  and  the  appoint- 
ments under  it  took  effect.  The  colleagues  of  Francis  in 
the  council  of  Bengal,  besides  Hastings  the  Governor- 
General,  who  was  to  preside  over  it,  were  General  Clavering 
(afterwards  Sir  John),  a  friend  of  the  King,  with  a  strong 
Parliamentary  connection — an  honest  and  high-spirited 
gentleman,  but  of  moderate  abilities,  and  of  so  pugnacious 
a  turn  that  he  wanted  to  fight  the  Duke  of  Eichmond 
about  Indian  politics  before  he  went  out ; l  and  Colonel 

1  The  fashion  of  having  recourse  to  the  pistol  in  every  '  difficulty '  was  now 
at  its  height.    It  furnishes  Bishop  Barrington  with  a  story — the  only  good 


326  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

Monson,1  who,  in  George  III.'s  opinion,  '  though  not  a 
strong  man,  had  excellent  brains.'  So  much  more  will  be 
said  of  these  gentlemen  in  the  narrative  of  Francis's  life 
in  India  that  nothing  need  be  added  at  present.  The 
fourth  councillor,  named  to  please  the  Company,  was 
Mr.  Barvvell,  one  of  their  servants,  already  in  India.  It 
is  pretty  clear  that,  of  Lord  North's  triumvirate,  Francis 
was  expected  to  furnish  the  brains. 

Nevertheless,  his  appointment  to  such  a  post,  under  all 
the  circumstances,  remains  a  provoking  mystery.  Of  the 
'  other  interests  '  of  which  he  speaks,  his  papers,  cautiously 
mutilated  as  they  have  been,  offer  no  indication.  No 
one  was  more  surprised  at  it  than  his  own  intimates. 

As  for  the  justice,  or  the  policy  of  the  thing  (writes  Tilghman 
from  America,  in  answer  to  a  letter  from  Francis  of  July  17)1  know 
nothing  about  them.  But  how  did  you  get  the  appointment  ?  It  is 
miraculous  to  me  that  a  man  should  resign  his  office  in  1772,  and  in 
1773,  without  any  change  of  the  ministry,  be  advanced  in  so  very 
extraordinary  a  manner.  Your  merit  and  abilities  I  was  always 
ready  to  acknowledge,  Sir ;  but  I  was  never  taught  to  think  much 
of  Lord  North's  virtue,  or  of  his  discernment.  His  treatment  of  you 
has  in  some  measure  redeemed  him  in  my  opinion. 

But  it  has  been,  of  course,  a  common  suggestion  that 
Junius  was,  in  effect,  bought  off  by  the  court  through  the 
appointment  of  Francis  to  India.  According  to  a  well- 
-known  anecdote  related  by  Sir  N.  Wraxall,  '  the  King, 
riding  out  in  1773,  accompanied  by  General  Desaguliers, 

one  contained  in  his  Life  of  his  brother.  A  young  officer,  who  considered 
himself  passed  over  in  some  promotion,  called  at  the  War  Office,  and  de- 
manded satisfaction  of  his  lordship.  '  If,'  said  Lord  Barrington,  '  I  had  fought 
every  officer  who  considered  himself  injured  by  me  in  the  matter  of  promo- 
tion, I  should  not  now  have  the  honour  '  (pointing  to  the  door)  l  of  wishing 
you  a  very  good  morning.' 

1  Colonel  Monson  is  described  by  his  enemy,  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  as  a  'proud, 
rash,  self-willed  man,  though  easily  misled,  and  very  greedy  for  patronage 
and  power.  Francis  seems  to  have  ruled  him  by  making  him  believe  that 
he  was  ruled  by  him.' 


1773]          APPOINTMENT  TO  COUNCIL  OF  BENGAL.  327 

said  to  him  in  conversation,  We  know  who  Junius  is :  he 
will  write  no  more.'  With  respect  to  this  very  apocryphal 
story,  it  may  be  observed  that  it  is  impossible  that  on 
June  8  (when  George  III.  wrote  the  letter  above 
quoted)  both  he  and  Lord  North  could  have  known,  in 
common,  that  Francis  was  Junius.  One  of  them  may 
have  known  it,  and  kept  it  back  from  the  other ;  but 
this  seems  highly  improbable.  The  author  of  the 
4  History  and  Discovery  of  Junius '  expresses  himself  as 
follows : — 

It  was  ou  this  occasion  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  avowed  himself  to 
be  the  author  of  Junius,  and  his  avowal  was  made  known  to  the 
King  and  the  Government ;  whether  to  the  whole  of  the  ministry, 
or  exclusively  to  his  Majesty  and  Lord  North,  does  not  appear.  The 
only  names  that  have  been  mentioned  to  me  as  in  the  secret,  and 
taking  part  in  the  engagement  of  secresy,  are  those  of  Lord  North 
and  Lord  Chatham.  This  statement  I  make  on  the  authority  of 
communications  from  Lady  Francis  and  other  survivors  of  the 
family  of  Sir  P.  Francis. 

For  reasons  mentioned  in  the  preface,  I  cannot  attri- 
bute much  weight  to  the  tradition  recorded  by  Lady 
Francis.  And  I  have  found  no  trace  in  the  Francis 
papers,  as  far  as  I  have  examined  them,  of  any  evidence 
to  corroborate  the  story.  It  must  rest,  as  far  as  our 
knowledge  goes,  on  its  own  intrinsic  probability  as  a 
conjecture.1  One  thing  must  be  remembered;  the  post 
had  been  already  refused,  certainly  by  Cholwell  and  by 
Burke,  probably  by  others  ;  which  seems  to  render  its 
use  as  a  bribe  somewhat  less  likely. 

It  remains  to  notice  one  suggestion,  which  I  find  in  a 

1  Mr.  Dubois,  in  later  life  Sir  Philip's  friend,  who  acted  frequently  as 
his  private  secretary,  says  positively  in  a  letter  before  me : — '  George  III. 
knew  who  Junius  was  ;  and  so  did  Lord  Grenville ;  and  through  the  latter 
Sir  Philip  was  on  the  eve  of  going  out  Governor  of  Buenos  Ayres  (and  I 
with  him)  when  Whitelock  showed  the  white  feather,  and  Sancho  lost  hia 
government.'  But  too  much  reliance  must  not  be  placed  on  Dubois. 


328  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

remarkable  paper  on  Sir  Philip  Francis  in  the  '  Calcutta 
Eeview  '  for  1844,  which  I  believe  I  am  correct  in  attri- 
buting to  our  most  eminent  Indian  historical  writer,  Mr. 
Kaye.  It  contains  the  Calcutta  traditional  view  of  Francis's 
character,  by  no  means  a  favourable  one. 

It  has  been  alleged  that  there  was  a  condition  attached  to  the 
appointment,  which  somewhat  diminished  its  value.  Francis  con- 
sented to  carry  a  rider :  that  is,  to  submit  to  the  subtraction  from 
his  salary  of  a  certain  part,  which  went  to  furnish  a  pleasant 
sinecure  to  some  friend  of  the  minister.  But  of  the  rider's  name 
and  the  weight  of  the  incumbrance  we  do  not  find  any  record. 

There  is  nothing  in  the  circumstances  of  Francis  or 
the  practice  of  the  times  to  render  such  a  fact  improbable. 
But  I  have  found  no  evidence  or  indication  of  it,  and  it 
seems  quite  inconsistent  with  the  large  savings  which,  as 
we  shall  see,  he  made  out  of  his  salary. 

Francis  had  now  become  a  great  man,  in  the  public 
eye,  from  a  very  small  one,  and  the  dispenser  (at  least  so 
it  was  augured)  of  a  good  share  of  the  much-coveted 
patronage  of  India.  And  the  burdens  of  office  imme- 
diately fell  upon  him.  As  soon  as  his  appointment  be- 
came known,  he  was  beset  with  applications  for  writerships 
and  other  favours,  several  of  which  are  preserved  among 
his  papers  :  one  from  his  old  chief,  Lord  Kinnoul ;  one 
(which  must  have  given  his  sarcastic  spirit  some  gratifica- 
tion) from  Lord  Barrington  himself. 

To  P.  Francis,  Esq. 

Cavendish  Square,  September  4,  1773. 

Dear  Sir, — Many  persons,  knowing  the  long  connection  which  has 
subsisted  between  you  and  me,  have  pressed  me  to  recommend  their 
relations  in  India  to  your  favour  and  protection.  In  general  I  have 
excused  myself  from  this ;  but  I  have  two  friends  to  whom  I  can  refuse 
nothing.  One  of  them  recommends  young  Mr.  Cadogan,  who  is  on 
the  civil  line,  the  other  Lieutenant  Bucknall,  who  is  on  the  military. 
If  you  can  with  propriety  do  any  service  to  these  gentlemen,  you 


1773]  FRIENDSHIP  WITH  LORD  BARRINGTON.  329 

will  lay  me  under  a  real  obligation.     I  am,  with  my  best  wishes  for 
your  health,  happiness,  and  success, 

Dear  Sir, 
Your  most  faithful  and  obedient  humble  servant, 

BARRINGTON. 

This  note  Francis  acknowledges  in  terms  of  the  court- 
liest politeness.  '  When  you  confer  a  favour,  you  make 
the  impression  deep  and  distinct ! ' 

'  This,  however,  is  only  the  commencement  of  a  series  of 
correspondence  between  Francis  and  Lord  Barrington. 
On  whatever  terms  Francis  may  have  quitted  the  War 
Office,  it  is  clear  that  no  ostensible  quarrel  remained  be- 
tween the  two,  and  that  Lord  Barrington  must  have  been 
wholly  unaware  of  any  rancour  lingering  in  the  heart  of 
his  subordinate.  For  several  years  after  his  arrival  in 
India,  Francis  addresses  to  Lord  Barrington  long  and 
confidential  reports  of  matters  there — seeks  to  inoculate 
his  lordship  with  all  his  own  personal  views  and  enmities 
—invokes  him  as  his  mediator  with  Lord  North — terms 
him  and  Welbore  Ellis  his  only  two  real  friends  in  the 
government.  '  To  Lord  Barrington,'  he  says  to  another 
correspondent,  '  I  have  at  all  times  laid  open  my  heart 
with  unlimited  freedom.'  Lord  Barrington's  answers, 
though  few,  are  very  friendly,  and  often  familiar  and 
gossipping :  and  it  is  strange  enough  to  '  Junian '  readers 
to  find  these  two  exchanging  complimentary  enquiries  and 
answers  about  Chamier,  and  condolences  on  the  death 
(by  his  own  hand)  of  poor  '  cream-coloured '  Bradshaw  ;* 

1  The  number  of  suicides  which  occurred  about  this  time  in  the  political 
world  was  sufficiently  alarming.  The  following  verses  were  ascribed  to  '  the 
late  Mr.  Goodenough,  a  young  gentleman  of  great  talents,  but  of  greater 
spirit.  He  was  always  proud  to  be  distinguished  as  a  friend  to  Mr.  Fox, 
previous  to  his  being  made  Secretary  of  State :  a  few  weeks  before  which 
period,  scorning  to  be  a  burthen  on  a  party  he  wished  to  support,  he 
bequeathed  fifty  pounds  to  pay  all  his  debts,  and  parted  from  life  like  a 
Roman.'  They  are  inserted  (with  this  introduction)  in  a  very  scarce  volume 
of  bitter  libel  against  George  III.,  the  '  Intrepid  Magazine/  1784. 


330  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRAXCIS.  [1773 

4  an  irreparable  loss  to  me  and  others,'  says  Lord  Barring- 
ton  (March,  1775).  After  Francis's  return  from  India, 
we  shall  find  him  visiting  at  Lord  Barrington's  house  in 
the  country. 

To  those  who  have  doubted  the  authorship  of  Junius, 
the  subsequent  intimacy  of  Francis  and  Lord  Barrington 
afforded  a  fair  ground  of  scepticism.  But  to  those  who 
are  convinced,  it  throws  a  peculiar  light  on  another 
aspect  of  the  question.  Many  have  been  surprised  at 
the  extreme  pertinacity  of  the  silence  maintained  by  the 
author  of  Junius  concerning  his  own  identity.  In  the 
lapse  of  years,  most  of  the  reasons  which  accounted 
for  that  pertinacity  and  for  the  artifices  of  concealment 
which  accompanied  it  gradually  passed  away.  But  one 
remained  in  full  force.  Francis  was  not  only  under  much 
obligation  to  Lord  Barrington,  but  was  bound  strongly 
to  him  by  the  ties  of  personal  interest  also.  Lord  Bar- 
rington lived  until  1793.  During  all  his  life,  at  the  very 
least,  disclosure  was  absolutely  impossible.  It  would 
have  stamped  the  confessing  party  as  a  traitor  of  the 
worst  stamp,  and  completely  excluded  him — the  man  of 
high  social  position,  the  object  of  strong  friendships  and 
strong  political  hatreds — from  the  company  of  gentlemen. 

The  following  letter  of  congratulation  is  from  Thomas 

His  measures  so  bloody  were  grown 

That  some  of  his  time-serving  elves, 
For  their  share  in  his  crimes  to  atone, 

Did  cut  their  own  throats  for  themselves. 

The  first  was  a  lawyer  from  York, 

Cajol'd  by  his  coaxing  and  art, 
But  who,  rather  than  do  dirty  work, 

Chose  out  of  the  world  to  depart. 

Next  Clive  and  eke  Bradshaw  the  bold, 

Last,  Stanley  with  cynical  grin, 
Show'd  the  folly  of  treasuring  gold, 

Where  the  heart  has  no  treasure  within. 


1773]  VISITS  LORD  CLIVE.  331 

Pitt  of  Boconnoc,  afterwards  Lord  Camelford,  who,  as 
we  have  seen,  was  Francis's  fellow-traveller  in  Portugal. 

Tuesday,  June  8,  1773. 

Dear  Sir, — I  am  much,  obliged  to  you  for  the  early  communica- 
tion of  the  ministers'  favourable  intentions  towards  you ;  which  I 
should  be  very  happy  to  assist  with  my  single  voice,  if  I  had  not 
declined  attending  through  the  whole  session,  so  as  to  make  it  very 
particular  if  I  voted  upon  this  occasion  only  ;  and  if  I  was  not  also 
persuaded  that  it  would  be  extremely  useless  to  you,  as  the  ministers' 
nomination  will  of  course  secure  to  you  a  very  great  majority,  unless 
there  is  a  fatality  that  renders  a  minister  only  impotent  when  he 
does  right.  I  could  wish  something  had  been  found  agreeable  to 
you  on  this  side  the  water  without  giving  you  the  voyage  and 
climate  to  struggle  with,  but  hope  it  will  afford  you  the  means  of 
obtaining  your  great  object  ut  in  otia  tuta  receclas.  That  and  every 
friendly  wish  I  beg  you  to  accept  from 

Your  faithful,  humble  servant, 

THOS.  PITT. 

The  following,  to  his  wife,  now  at  Margate,  explains 
itself : — 

Friday,  August  27,  1773. 

Dear  Wife, — I  sat  an  hour  with  Lord  N".  this  morning,  and  had  a 
great  deal  of  very  satisfactory  conversation.  It  looks  very  probable 
that  we  shall  depart  about  the  end  of  October.  He  agrees  that  I 
shall  return  to  Margate  and  stay  as  long  as  I  proposed.  I  am  to  see 
him  again  to- morrow  in  Downing  Street,  and  intend  lying  at  Ingress, 
so  I  shall  be  with  you  on  Sunday  to  dinner. 

Lord  N.  asked  me  to  dinner,  but  it  was  inconvenient,  so  I  dined 
at  Twickenham 

Just  returned  from  Fulham.  Found  the  old  folks  all  well,  and  in 
the  fact  of  playing  at  quadrille.  Called  at  the  school,  and  took  the 
three  girls  into  the  carriage,  healthy  and  handsome,  though  in  their 
bedgowns.  I  have  hardly  time  to  seal  this,  so  farewell. 

To  Mrs.  Francis,  at  Mrs.  Granger's,  Bowling  Green,  Margate. 

Shortly  after  his  appointment,  Francis  went  to  Walcot, 
in  Shropshire,  to  spend  some  days  in  consultation  with 
Lord  Clive  in  his  retirement.  There  is  an  obscurity 
about  the  early  relations  of  Francis  with  the  great  Anglo- 
Indian  chief  which  I  am  unable  to  clear  up.  I  do  not 


332  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

find  any  trace  of  acquaintance  between  them  in  his  earlier 
papers.  It  is  highly  probable  that  the  introduction  was 
effected,  at  this  time,  by  Christopher  D'Oyly,  the  constant 
friend  of  Francis,  and  the  friend  also  (and  executor)  of 
Lord  Clive.  But  the  remarkable  circumstance  is,  that  im- 
mediately after  the  first  visit,  which  lasted  only  a  few  days, 
we  find  Francis  established  as  the  close  ally  and  counsellor 
of  the  Clive  family.  The  '  autobiographical  fragment ' 
is  so  mutilated  just  in  this  part  as  to  afford  us  little  light. 
The  situation  of  Lord  Clive  at  this  period  was  a  very 
anomalous  one.  Half  condemned,  half  absolved,  by  the 
proceedings  of  the  House  of  Commons  against  him,  he 
lived  in  a  kind  of  royal  seclusion  of  his  own :  the  object 
of  censure,  suspicion,  almost  superstitious  terror,  to  great 
part  of  his  countrymen  ;  but  enormously  rich,  courted 
for  his  wealth  and  influence,  and  probably  directing 
extensively  from  his  retirement  the  proceedings  of 
government  in  respect  to  India.  He  was,  in  truth,  of 
himself  a  power  in  Indian  politics  not  to  be  despised ; 
besides  his  reputation  and  his  host  of  friends  and  de- 
pendents, he  possessed  the  control  of  eighty  votes  in  the 
Court  of  Proprietors,  with  which  government  had  to  deal 
as  well  as  it  might  in  the  continual  contests  of  the  India 
House  as  to  the  manner  in  which  the  Regulation  Act  was 
to  be  put  into  force.  There  can  be  little  doubt,  I  think, 
that  Clive  was  in  a  considerable  degree  the  real  author  of 
the  policy  embodied  in  that  piece  of  legislation.  That  he 
was  personally  hostile  to  Hastings,  I  am  unable  to  say 
from  any  records  which  I  have  consulted.  But  it  appears 
plain  that  he  was  much  alarmed  at  the  financial  state  of 
the  Company,  with  which  his  own  affairs  were  much  in- 
volved— his  'jaghire,'  or  charge  on  the  revenues  of  Ben- 

1  Whether  this  '  jaghire  '  was  the  produce  of  the  legacy  of  Meer  Jaffier, 
which  was  finally  handed  over  to  the  widows  of  Indian  officers,  and  con- 
stitutes the  foundation  of  the  Clive  fund,  I  am  not  sure. 


1773]  LIFE  AT  LORD  OLIVE'S.  333 

gal,  about  which  he  was  now  peculiarly  interested,  was  at 
stake.1  But  I  am  strongly  inclined  to  believe  that  the 
fierce  and  determined  enmity  of  Francis  to  the  Governor- 
General,  and,  possibly,  the  plan  of  campaign  to  be  carried 
on  by  the  three  new  councillors  against  the  local  govern- 
ment of  Bengal,  had  their  origin,  to  a  great  extent,  in  this 
meeting  at  Walcot. 

'At  Lord  dive's,'  he  writes  to  D'Oyly  (Sept.  30,  1773), 
'  I  led  a  kind  of  transitory  life  between  Walcot  and  Oak- 
ley, with  great  hospitality  and  good  humour  on  all  sides. 
I  hold  myself  much  indebted  both  to  him  and  Lady  Olive. 
She  is  benevolence  itself.'  Burke  says  of  Francis  about 
this  time,  in  one  of  his  letters,  that  he  understands  him  to 
be  entirely  in  Lord  Olive's  interest.  '  We  continue  here ' 
(he  wrote  to  his  wife  from  Walcot)  '  in  the  same  good 
humour  and  good  living  ;  I  never  saw  so  much  of  both  in 
one  house.  Yesterday  came  two  Druids  from  Plynlimon, 
with  harps  and  fiddles  ;  we  had  plenty  of  company,  and 
danced  all  the  evening  like  dragons.'  And  again  : — 

Thursday,  Heaven  knows  what  day  of  the  month,  in  the  year  1773. 
My  dearest  Betty, — I  snatch  one  moment,  being  all  that  I  can 
spare  from  feasting,  singing,  gaming,  riding,  and  sleeping  in  a  bed 
as  wide  as  our  best  parlour,  to  tell  you  that  I  perform  all  the  offices 
of  life  above-mentioned  to  admiration.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  travel- 
ling two  days  in  company  with  a  very  good-natured  man,  who  never 
once  opened  his  lips  but  to  complain  of  his  misfortunes.  N.B.  He 
is  melancholy  mad,  having  lost  a  trunk  at  his  outset  from  London, 
from  behind  his  chaise,  containing  the  title  deeds  of  all  the  estates 
in  Shropshire — Lord  Olive's  among  the  rest.  I  have  got  into  a  set 
of  the  most  good-humoured  people  upon  earth,  a  charming  house  and 
fine  park,  seven  dogs  and  two  dozen  of  cats.  Lady  Olive  has  it 
much  at  heart  that  her  guests  should  sleep  well,  and  the  beds  are 
incomparable.  This,  you  know,  is  a  capital  circumstance.  I  am 
just  risen  from  a  monstrous  dinner  with  twenty-three  of  Lord  Olive's 
free- voters  at  Bishop's  Castle.  Lady  Olive  drinks  your  health  every 
day,  not  forgetting  the  bairns.  Mem.  Kiss  them  in  my  name 
repeatedly.  Bid  your  brother  write  to  me  copiously.  I  have  just 


334  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

one  quarter  of  an  hour  in  the  day  which  I  can  dedicate  to  the  reading 
of  letters.  Farewell,  dearest !  Compliments  to  your  aged  father 
and  mother  and  Patty. 

Yours,  yours, 

PH. 

Direct  under  cover  to  Lord  Clive,  at  Walcot,  near  Bishop's  Castle, 
Salop. 

After  leaving  Walcot,  he  received  a  letter  which  he  has 
preserved,  from  Mr.  (afterwards  Sir)  H.  Strachey,  Lord 
Olive's  private  secretary,  purporting  to  convey  his  lordship's 
views  about  the  Council  of  India ;  and  one  from  Lady  Clive, 
the  sister  of  Maskelyne,  the  Astronomer  Eoyal,  of  whom 
Lord  Macaulay,  in  his  essay  on  Clive,  speaks  in  high  terms. 
It  adds  a  melancholy  interest  to  it  to  remember  that  while 
Francis  was  on  his  voyage  to  India  the  glory  of  that 
house  fell  into  the  dust  by  the  suicide  of  its  great  but 
unfortunate  owner.  The  letter  from  Strachey  is  not  with- 
out interest,  as  conveying  Clive's  last  views — and  very 
characteristic  they  are — on  some  points  connected  with 
the  government  of  India. 

Walcot,  August  30,  1773. 

Dear  Sir, — Your  first  letter  has  remained  long  unacknowledged 
because  Lady  Clive  undertook  to  answer  it  for  me,  and  intended 
writing  in  Italian.  You  will  hear  from  her  ladyship  by  this  post, 
so  that  I  have  only  to  reply  to  the  favour  I  received  last  night. 

I  lent  you  the  Regulating  Bill  one  morning,  and  never  saw  it 
afterwards.  We  have  not  one  here  complete,  and  Lord  Clive 
cannot  without  studying  the  bill  be  full  or  accurate  in  his  opinion. 
He  desires  me,  however,  to  say  that  he  objects  to  the  annihilation  of 
the  old  Council.  His  idea  is,  that  a  council  should  still  remain, 
who  would  be  of  great  use  to  you  in  conducting  business,  although 
the  power  of  deciding  would  be  in  the  Governor- General  and 
council.  Another  capital  objection  is  that  no  discretionary  power  is 
given  you  to  suffer  the  army  to  receive  money  upon  any  occasion 
whatsoever.  The  consequence  may  be  very  mischievous  when  they 
take  the  field,  or  are  ordered  to  besiege  a  town.  Besides,  what 
officer  of  credit  will  hereafter  enter  into  the  Company's  service, 
where  he  can  merely  obtain  a  subsistence — not  the  least  prospect 
of  ever  returning  with  a  competency  to  his  native  country  ? 


1773]  INDIAN  POLICY  OF  LORD  CLIVE.  335 

You  know  that  Lord  Clive  has  all  along  disapproved  of  the  new 
court  of  justice.  Be  assured  you  will  be  now  obliged  to  go  to  law 
every  year  for  the  greater  part  of  the  revenues.  The  natives  are 
remarkably  litigious  and  fond  of  money.  Every  man,  for  the  plea- 
sure of  a  lawsuit,  and  the  satisfaction  of  looking  at  the  rupees,  will 
withhold  his  payments,  and  leave  you  to  sue  for  them.  I  say 
nothing  of  our  present  judges,  but  that  I  wish  we  may  never  have 
worse. 

These  are  the  principal  objections  which  occur  at  present.  We 
shall,  however,  have  some  more  talk  with  you  before  you  go,  for 
Lord  Clive  intends  being  in  town  for  a  few  days  towards  the  end  of 
September,  to  stir  about  qualifications.  He  has  ordered  10,OOOZ. 
stock  to  be  bought  for  himself,  and  I  foresee  we  shall  have  a  very 
stout  corps  at  a  ballot. 

I  hear  no  particular  news  from  Bengal,  except  that  the  military 
expenses  only  amount  for  the  last  year  to  one  million  and  seventy 
thousand  pounds.  Mr.  McLeane  indeed  could  not  have  arrived. 

We  wonder  much  at  your  sailing  so  early  as  October.  Is  Parlia- 
ment to  meet  and  settle  matters  before  you  go,  or  is  everything  to  be 
done  by  the  new  general  courts  ? 

The  directors  are  inclined  to  co-operate  with  government  in  carry- 
ing the  bill  into  execution,  at  least  so  one  of  them  told  us  the  other 
day  at  Oakley  Park  ;  but  they  are  much  puzzled  what  instructions 
to  give  you,  and  will  be  embarrassed  by  the  500 1.  voters  till 
October. 

Lord  Clive,  having  read  the  above,  desires  me  to  add  to  what  I 
have  said  about  the  army,  that  besides  the  policy  of  excluding  the 
military  from  everything  but  their  pay,  it  is  unjust  to  put  them 
upon  a  footing  different  from  those  in  any  other  service. 

I  suppose  Lady  Clive  has  conveyed  all  compliments,  and  said 
everything  upon  our  gloom  at  your  leaving  us  as  soon  as  you  did. 
She  said  she  would  press  you  to  come  to  Shrewsbury  races. 
Perhaps  she  has  forgot  to  mention  Mrs.  Francis,  and  as  the  post  is 
just  going  I  have  not  time  to  put  her  in  mind,  but  I  will  pass  my 
word  for  an  hearty  welcome  to  you  and  yours. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  most  faithfully  yours, 

HENRY  STEACHET. 

i-From  Lady  Clive  to  Francis. 

Walcot,  near  Ludlow,  August  31,  1773. 

In  English,  being  too  weak  in  Italian,  I  will  in  a  few  words  take 
upon  me  to  answer  Mr.  Francis's  letter  to  Mr.  Strachey,  and  I  am 
to  begin  by  returning  him  thanks  for  the  kind  remembrance  in 


336  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

which  he  holds  me  and  my  family.  Lord  Clive,  the  Stracheys,  and 
Miss  Ducarel,  and  my  three  daughters,  desire  to  offer  to  Mr. 
Francis  every  good  wish,  and  to  inform  him  the  time  he  passed  in 
our  house  passed  too  quickly  away  ;  moreover  that  as  he  does  not 
go  till  next  month  for  India,  they  think  he  might  bestow  one  more 
look  upon  us  in  this  country.  It  is  wonderful  that  without  Mr. 
Francis  Ludlow  races  should  have  proved  so  delightful,  and  yet 
they  have  dismissed  our  large  party  in  better  health,  and  in  better 
spirits  than  when  they  first  commanded  our  unwilling  attendance. 
Those  of  Shrewsbury  are  to  begin  on  September  14.  How 
charming  it  would  be  if  Mr.  Francis  •  would  accompany  Colonel 
Tonyn  to  that  place  of  gaiety  and  pleasure  !  Colonel  Tonyn,  if  still 
in  the  land  of  the  living,  would  probably  prove  a  more  lively  com- 
panion than  poor  dear  Mr.  Ashby,  who,  amidst  all  his  sorrows, 
nevertheless  won  Mr.  Francis's  affection  and  liking ;  but  if  Mrs. 
Francis  will  come  I  shall  be  most  glad. 

You  need  not  be  apprehensive,  dear  Sir,  of  exciting  in  my  mind 
groundless  fears  of  future  events,  since  the  past  has  so  exactly  cor- 
responded with  those  you  fear  may  happen,  that  I  am  always 
prepared  for  such  disasters,  and  give  away  my  pets  as  fast  as  they 
are  brought  into  life,  in  order  to  make  others  share  in  the  grief  of 
losing  them,  and  that  the  whole  burthen  may  not  rest  on  me. 
Domenico  Balestriei'i l  lamented  one  cat,  fallen  from  the  top  of  a 
house  and  crushed  to  death  ;  I  not  only  one  so  lost,  but  two 
besides,  the  fathers  of  families,  basely  assassinated  and  put  to  death 
by  wretched  boors,  that  pretended  to  believe  the  lovely  creatures 
were  wild  and  mischievous  animals  ;  one  fair  snowy  female  hurried 
out  of  life  by  an  odious  rat  at  two  months  old,  another  over- 
crammed  at  Walcot,  another  still-born  at  Claremont,  some  of  both 
sexes  crushed  by  doors,  others  lost  by  bad  nursing,  and  some 
hundreds  now  begging  their  bread. 

Let  me  tell  you,  Sir,  1  think  you  have,  with  the  utmost  modesty, 
chosen  for  yourself  a  very  proper  situation  between  the  two  extremes 
of  high  exaltation  and  the  lowest  degree  of  favour,  but  will  you  be 
content  to  remain  there,  and  not  seek  to  supplant  Tufty  as  well  as 
Beaumy  ?  According  as  ye  all  behave  so  will  I  be  unto  ye,  and  no 
other  promise  will  I  make. 

I  am  now  to  thank  you  for  a  very  signal  favour.  The  present 
you  have  made  me  is  very  acceptable,  and  has  afforded  me  great 
pleasure  and  satisfaction.  The  sonnet  upon  mewing  is  happily  ex- 
pressed by  gnao,  gnao ;  and  many  others  of  them  in  wit  and 
pleasantry  exceed  everything  I  ever  met  with.  The  lamentations 

1  A  Milanese  poet  of  the  18th  century. 


1773]  INTIMACY  WITH  OLIVE  FAMILY.  337 

are  very  affecting,  and  fitted  to  the  subject.  I  should  have  written  to 
you  in  Italian,  but  that  I  found,  upon  making  an  essay,  I  was  too 
much  out  of  practice,  and  that  the  post  would  not  wait.  I  should 
think  the  book  complete,  where  there  is  to  every  sonnet  a  picture  of 
the  dear  Micio  or  cat  prefixed.  I  may  say  with  equal  truth  of  each 
of  my  murdered  cats,  as  does  Domenico  Balestrieri  of  his — 

la  stampa 
Natura  fece,  e  poi  ruppe  il  modello. 

In  return  for  your  present  I  am  willing  to  bestow  on  you  a  loan, 
and  then  to  ask  a  very  great  favour  of  you ;  but  first  for  the  loan. 
There  is  in  my  drawer  of  papers  a  well-told  and  true  description  of 
the  earthquake  at  Lisbon  in  the  year  1753.  Upon  hearing  me 
mention  it,  you  once  expressed  an  inclination  to  read  it,  and  I  was 
desirous  you  should.  Now,  if  you  care  about  it,  and  will  take  the 
trouble  of  asking  Mr.  Crisp  for  it,  I  shall  be  pleased  with  you.  I 
should  not  be  sorry  to  have  one  copy  taken  of  it.  So  you  may  order 
that  too. 

Now  for  the  favour. 

Mr.  Ives  of  Titchfield,  near  Fareham,  has  long  been  known  to 
Lord  Clive  and  me.  A  man  of  great  worth  and  honour,  and  one  we 
wish  to  show  friendship  to :  an  opportunity  now  offers  of  proving 
our  sincerity  by  doing  what  he  requests  to  us,  recommending  to 
your  protection  and  good  offices  a  son  of  his,  gone  to  Bengal,  a  writer. 

I  hope  this  will  find  you,  Mrs.  Francis,  and  the  little  ones  well, 
and  that  every  happiness  may  attend  you  and  them,  is  the  wish  of 

Dear  sir, 
Your  most  obedient  and  humble  servant, 

M.  CLFVE. 

From  this  time  (as  I  have  said)  the  connection  between 
Francis  and  the  Clive  family  was  very  intimate.  Several 
of  Francis's  first  letters  from  India  are  addressed  to  its 
chief,  of  whose  decease  he  was,  of  course,  long  ignorant. 
He  corresponded  regularly  for  some  years  with  the  second 
Lord  Clive,  then  a  young  man  commencing  his  studies  at 
Geneva  ;  and  with  Lady  Clive,  the  widow,  who  reported  to 
him  her  frequent  visits  to  Mrs.  Francis,  and  the  progress 
of  his  son,  who  was  at  school  with  one  of  her  own  younger 
sons.  Thus  much  by  way  of  anticipation.  '  I  am  attached 
to  your  lordship  and  family,'  he  says  to  the  young  Lord 

VOL.I.  z 


338  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1773 

Olive,  in  a  letter  of  1777,  *  by  every  tie  that  can  bind  an 
honourable  mind.'1 

The  following,  in  Francis's  playful  mood,  are  to  a  fair 
neighbour  at  Fulham  who  seems  to  have  made  him  a  very 
acceptable  present ;  to  Mrs.  Hay,  wife  of  the  Governor 
of  Barbadoes,  who  had  been  our  minister  in  Portugal  at 
the  time  of  Lord  Kinnoul's  special  mission  ;  and  to  Miss 
Baggs,  a  sister  (I  presume)  of  his  kinsmen  the  Major  and 
the  clergyman. 

Duke  Street,  November  13,  1773. 

My  dear  Miss  Holden, — It  was  bad  policy  in  you  to  suffer  me  to  run 
so  deeply  into  your  debt.  I  should  not  have  been  afraid  to  acknow- 
ledge a  moderate  obligation,  because  I  should  have  lived  in  hopes  of 
being  able  to  return  it  some  time  or  other.  But  when  I  consider 
the  favour  you  have  done  me,  the  pains  you  have  taken,  and  the 
wonderful  elegance  of  the  performance,  I  own  I  am  tempted  to  be 
ungrateful.  I  can  hardly  persuade  myself  to  thank  you  at  all,  since 
I  never  can  thank  you  enough.  But  if  I  say  little  upon  the  subject, 
be  assured  I  pay  you  off  in  thinking.  I  shall  for  ever  esteem  this 
waistcoat  as  the  dearest  and  most  ornamental  part  of  my  dress.  It 
shall  only  be  worn  upon  festivals,  that  I  may  bring  it  back  as  bright, 
if  possible,  as  when  I  received  it,  and  shine  as  long  as  I  can  in  the 
lustre  which  you  have  lent  me.  From  waistcoats  there  is  a  natural 
transition  to  potted  snipes.  Instead  of  trusting  hereafter  to  Provi- 
dence for  food  and  raiment,  I  propose  to  trust  entirely  to  you  and 
your  mother :  you  shall  both  be  better  treated  in  return  than  Provi- 
dence usually  is  upon  these  occasions. 

To  the  Honourable  Mrs.  Hay,  at  Barbadoes. 

London,  November  4,  1773. 

Dear  Madam, — I  have  rather  more  reason  than  yourself,  because  I 
am  going  to  a  greater  distance  than  Barbadoes,  to  wish  that  people 
in  England  were  a  little  more  attentive  than  they  usually  are  to 

1  Poor  Mrs.  Francis's  simple  recital  of  the  impressions  produced  on  her 
by  her  first  introduction  to  worldly  grandeur,  through  this  intimacy  with 
the  Clives,  is  amusing.  In  April  1774,  she  enters  in  her  Journal,  that  she 
went  in  the  coach  to  Esher,  to  visit  Lady  Clive  for  the  first  time,  '  but  was 
disappointed  ;  she  was  gone.  Mr.  Churchman  was  so  civil  as  to  ask  me  if 
we  chose  a  ride  through  the  park,  which  we  readily  embraced,  and  had  the 
finest  ride  that  could  be ;  had  a  fine  look  at  the  house,  which  is  truly 
magnificent  and  charming,  everything  round  most  beautiful,  and  our  Polly 
says  nothing  less  than  Claremont  with  twenty  thousand  a  year,  and  a  most 
amiable  and  charming  man,  will  do  for  her.' 


1773]  PREPAEATIONS  FOE  DEPARTUEE.  339 

their  friends  in  banishment.     But  it  is  in  vain  for  us  to  be  angry. 
They  have  the  rod  of  Silence  in  their  hands,  and  may  plague  us  to 
death  without  any  trouble  to  themselves.     I  hope,  however,  that  our 
letters  from  Margate  have  recovered  Mrs.  Francis  and  me,  in  some 
degree,  in  your  opinion.     I  really  have  all  the  dispositions  in  the 
world  to  be  a  good  correspondent,  if  time  and  place  would  co-operate. 
I  am  also  very  well  disposed  to  live  long  and  see  good  days.     Your 
kind  advice  about  my  health  shall  not  be  neglected.     You  already 
know  that  Mrs.  Francis  is  not  to  accompany  me  to  India ;  it  is  her 
own  choice  and  resolution,  and  severely  felt  by  us  both.     She  dreads 
the  effect  of  the  climate  upon  her  nerves  ;  and  even  if  there  were  no 
apprehension  on  the  article  of  health,  what  are  five  little  girls  and  a 
boy  to  do,  deprived  both  of  mother  and  father  ?    Your  own  feelings 
and  judgment  suggested  to  you  what  her  determination  would  be. 
But  all  this  will  come  right  again.     If  I  survive  the  trial,  it  will 
have  made  me  an  independent  man.     You  know  my  way  of  thinking, 
and  that  to  a  temper  like  mine  independence  is  the  first  ingredient 
of  happiness.       Difficulties   about   the  mode    of  conveyance  have 
retarded  our  departure.     Everything  is  now  settled  to  our  entire 
satisfaction,  and  I  think  it  looks  probable,  that  we  shall  not  spend 
next  new  year's  day  in  England.  I  will  not  promise  much  for  myself 
about  correspondence  from  Bengal,  but  you  will  hear  regularly  from 
Mrs.  Francis,  who  will  think  herself  happily  employed  in  giving  you 
advice  of  my  proceedings.     This,  however,  will  not  be  the  last  letter 
you  will  receive  from  me  before  I  go.     In  your  next  I  hope  to  receive 
the  confirmation  of  a  report  current  among  the  West  Indians  here, 
that  the  two  Miss  Hays  have  quitted  that  title.     Our  best  wishes 
wait  upon  them  in  every  state.   Shall  we  all  meet  again,  and  compare 
notes  about  the  atmosphere  ?     When  you  are  languishing  at  Barba- 
does,  think  what  it  is  to  be  dissolved  at  Calcutta,  and  comfort  your- 
self with  the  idea  that  some  of  your  friends  are  hotter  than  yourself. 
This  is  one  of  the  principal  consolations  to  be  derived  from  friend- 
ship.    Allen  is  well,  though  not  much  the  better  for  my  leaving  him 
in  Portugal. 

To  Miss  Baggs,  Donnybrook,  Ireland. 

London,  January  27,  1774. 

My  dear  Madam, — Having  no  other  means  in  my  power,  I  have 
taken  the  liberty  this  day  to  remit  you  the  noble  sum  of  three  half- 
crowns  by  the  same  channel  which  you  directed  me  to  make  use  of 
before.  I  paid  it  to  Mrs.  Este  in  Craven  Street,  who  will  give  credit 
for  it  to  your  friend  Miss  Tighe. 

I  am  now  preparing  in  good  earnest  for  my  departure,  which  I 
think  will  take  place  in  about  three  weeks.  Everything  about  me 

z2 


340  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

is  in  a  monstrous  hurry  and  confusion.  Phil,  arrived  a  few  days  ago 
from  Paris.  Stephen  is  here,  very  busy  about  a  book.  My  wife 
desires  her  respects  to  you.  Again  many  thanks  for  the  arms. 

In  October  1773,  occurs  the  first  correspondence  be- 
tween Francis  and  Edmund  Burke  of  which  the  papers 
before  me  afford  any  trace.  According  to  Francis  him- 
self, the  introduction  of  these  two  men  to  each  other  was 
effected  by  John  Bourke,  of  Tokenhouse  Yard,  a  city 
merchant  of  the  same  original  family  with  the  great  Irish- 
man, and  an  early  friend  of  his ; 1  who  was  extremely 
intimate  with  our  hero,  though  a  much  older  man,  and 
one  of  his  most  familiar  correspondents  while  in  India. 
The  letters  now  in  question  merely  relate  to  appoint- 
ments to  meet  each  other  on  some  common  business 
not  mentioned — probably  concerning  Francis's  Indian 
prospects.  I  have  said  that  the  place  of  Councillor  had 
been  offered  to  Burke,  but  declined  by  him. 

Although  Lord  North  had  at  first  warned  Francis  to  be 
ready  to  sail  as  early  as  October,  his  departure  was  de- 
layed by  a  variety  of  causes,  partly  of  a  public  nature, 
which  are  referred  to  in  the  fragment  of  autobiography. 
The  councillors  had  to  await  their  instructions  :  being 
bound  by  the  Regulating  Act  to  pay  due  obedience  'to  such 
orders  as  they  shall  receive  from  the  Court  of  Directors.' 
The  quarrels  to  which  these  projected  Instructions  gave 
rise  between  the  Court  of  Directors,  the  Court  of  Pro- 
prietors, and  the  new  councillors  themselves,  are  described, 
in  the  fragment  in  question,  sufficiently  for  our  present 
purpose.  The  following  memoranda  among  Francis's 
papers  relate  to  them  :— 

Lord  North  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  Francis,  and  desires 
to  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  him  to-day  in  Downing  Street  at  half- 
past  12  o'clock. 

Downing  Street,  January  10,  1774. 

1  See  Burke's  works,  edition  1852,  vol.  i.  p.  312. 


1774]  DEBATES  IN   THE  INDIA  HOUSE.  341 

Met  Mr.  Jenkinson,  Mr.  Wedderburn,  General  Clavering,  Colonel 
Monson,  and  Mr.  Robinson  at  Lord  North's.  The  danger  of  being 
defeated  in  the  ballot  proposed  yesterday,  considered  and  admitted. 
Great  unwillingness  in  the  ministers  to  go  to  Parliament  again. 
Clavering  and  Monson  resolute  not  to  act  under  the  second  set  of 
instructions  proposed  by  the  directors.  Agreed  that  the  first  thing 
to  be  done  is  to  bring  the  instructions,  proposed  by  the  committee 
of  proprietors,  by  themselves  to  a  ballot,  before  any  other  question 
whatsoever.  That  amendments  shall  then  be  proposed  to  the  direc- 
tors' instructions,  and  a  ballot  demanded  thereupon. 

N.B.  I  never  saw  such  wretched  management  in  any  important 
business. 

Mr.  Robinson  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  Francis,  and  should 
be  glad  if  he  would  do  him  the  favour  of  calling  upon  him  as  soon 
as  it  is  convenient  to  him. 

Parliament  Street,  Wednesday  morning,  January  12,  1774. 

The  plan  laid  down  for  yesterday's  proceedings  in  the  India 
House  remains  unexecuted,  by  Rose  Fuller's  non-attendance. 

N.B.  He  had  undertaken  to  move  for  the  separate  ballot. 
Robinson  promises  that  it  shall  be  done  this  day,  to  which  the 
general  court  stands  adjourned.  Charming  confusion. 

January  14,  1774. 
Meeting  at  Lord  North's. 

PRESENT. 

Lord  North  Mr.  Thurloe 

Sir  Gilbert  Elliot  Mr.  Wedderburn 

Mr.  Rigby  Mr.  Robinson 

Mr.  Ellis  Mr.  Cowper 

Mr.  Dyson  General  Clavering 

Mr.  Jenkinson  Colonel  Monson 

Mr.  Stanley  Mr.  Francis 

Mr.  Jackson 

After  a  great  deal  of  conversation,  in  which  the  minister's  unwil- 
lingness to  go  again  to  Parliament,  and  his  wish  that  we  should  act 
under  the  instructions  proposed  by  the  court  of  directors  rather 
than  attempt  any  third  expedient,  appeared  very  manifest,  it  was  at 
last  agreed — 

That  it  was  of  great  consequence  with  respect  to  carrying  any 
future  questions  in  the  general  court,  and  to  the  influence  of  govern- 
ment over  the  future  proceedings  of  the  Company,  that  the  first 
questions  supported  by  them  should  be  carried  by  a  great  majority. 
That  if  we  supported  the  instructions  proposed  by  the  directors 


342  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

•we  should  probably  succeed,  and  that  the  strength  of  government 
being  confounded  with  that  of  the  house  would  then  appear  to  the 
greatest  advantage. 

That  therefore  it  should  be  the  plan  of  the  members  of  the  govern- 
ment to  send  the  two  sets  of  instructions  to  be  balloted  for  together, 
and  that  care  shall  be  taken  not  to  let  them  be  separated. 

That  for  this  purpose  there  shall  be  as  great  an  attendance  as 
possible  at  the  next  general  court  appointed  for  the  17th  instant. 

The  '  instructions '  in  question,  to  which  Francis  and  his 
colleagues  so  strongly  objected,  are  addressed  by  the  Court 
of  Directors  to  the  Governor-General  and  four  Councillors, 
January  14,  1774,  and  certified  by  five  counsel  to  be 
legal  and  consistent  with  the  provisions  of  the  Eegulating 
Act.  The  points  which  particularly  gave  him  umbrage 
were  the  constitution  of  a  Board  of  Trade,  to  manage  the 
commercial  affairs  of  the  Company,  with  such  powers  as 
to  render  it  in  his  judgment  almost  independent  of  the 
council ;  and  the  restrictions  placed  on  the  council's  inter- 
ference with  existing  leases  of  the  lands  of  Bengal,  Behar, 
and  Orissa.1 

On  a  note  from  Mr.  Robinson  (Secretary  to  the  Treasury) 
asking  for  an  appointment  to  meet  Francis  (January  2, 
1774),  the  latter  has  made  the  following  indorsement : — 

Jan.  3.  Had  a  long  conversation  with  Mr.  Robinson.  It  appeared 
to  me  that  he  felt  great  embarrassment  about  the  consequence  of  the 
new  instructions  :  and  that  he  was  conscious  of  having  been  duped  by 
the  directors.  Impossible  to  come  to  any  conclusion  with  a  man  whose 
own  error  or  oversight  makes  it  necessary  for  him  to  undervalue  great 
difficulties  which  he  ought  to  have  foreseen  and  prevented. 

It  is  evident  that  Francis's  official  experience  and 
habits  had  taught  him  the  wisdom  of  making  express 
notes  of  everything  to  his  advantage  which  might  have 
passed  in  private  in  conversation  with  a  minister.  He 
writes  at  the  foot  of  a  note  from  Lord  North  offering  to 
'see  him  in  Downing  Street,'  January  23,  1774 — 

1  See  the  autobiographical  fragment. 


1774]  DEBATES  IN  THE  INDIA  HOUSE.  343 

Received  the  strongest  assurances  from  Lord  North  that,  in  Mr. 
Keene's  negotiation  with  Mr.  de  Grey  about  exchanging  his  seat  at 
Wareham  for  Luggershall,  care  had  been  [taken]  not  to  prejudice 
my  interest  at  Wareham.  His  lordship  also  confirmed  in  the  most 
cordial  manner  the  promise  which  he  gave  me  at  Bushy  on  Novem- 
ber 28,  1773,  that  I  should  have  the  utmost  support  of  government, 
if  it  should  be  necessary,  for  the  appointment  of  Mr.  D'Oyly  to 
represent  Wareham  at  the  next  general  election,  in  case  I  should  be 
abroad. 

It  is  not  uninstructive  to  note  the  very  great  interest 
which  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  took  in  these  debates  at 
the  East  India  House,  and  discussion  elsewhere,  touching 
the  instructions  to  be  given  to  the  Councillors.  In  De- 
cember 1775  and  January  1774,  An  Old  Proprietor, 
Porus,  Sujah,  ^Esop,  and  others  besides,  all  take  the 
field,  and  all  to  persuade  the  public  of  the  same  truth— 
the  impolicy  of  hampering  the  Indian  reformers  by 
creating  authorities  in  India  not  subject  to  their  supremacy. 
And  Sir  Philip  Francis  has  carefully  extracted  and  pasted 
their  letters  into  one  of  his  folios ;  with  occasional  MS. 
notes,  and  supplying  mutilated  paragraphs.  The  probable 
inference  is  that  they  are  chiefly  his  own  compositions, 
inserted  by  reason  of  his  old  command  over  Woodfall's 
columns. 

The  government  measure  (subject,  however,  to  these 
obnoxious  Instructions)  was  practically  carried  on  Feb.  3, 
1774,  at  the  India  House  in  an  unusually  large  meet- 
ing of  proprietors.  The  Secretary  of  the  Treasury,  Mr. 
Eobinson,  had  issued  a  circular  for  the  attendance  of 
every  member  of  the  Government  holding  stock.  Lord 
Sandwich,  Sir  G.  Elliot,  Sir  L.  Dundas,  Hans  Stanley, 
Welbore  Ellis,  Lords  Falmouth  and  Gage,  Mr.  E.  Las- 
celles,  and  every  ministerialist  attended  ;  120  members  of 
the  government  and  ministerial  partisan  proprietors  were 
present  to  the  termination  of  the  proceedings.  Those  pro- 


344  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

ceedings  were  reported  in  the  'Public  Advertiser,'  in 
three  columns,  on  the  following  Monday,  the  7th  ;  partially, 
however,  in  favour  of  the  opponents  of  the  Act.  The 
great  question  was  the  military  command  proposed  to  be 
invested  in  General  Clavering.  During  the  discussion 
and  speeches  the  new  commissioners  were  treated  rather 
unceremoniously.  Francis,  in  Woodfall's  report,  was  de- 
scribed as  *  a  clerk  in  the  War  Office.' 1  This  designation 
caused  the  insertion  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  the  next 
day  the  following  curious  paragraph  : — 

In  justice  to  Mr.  Francis,  whose  name  was  mentioned  in  our  paper 
of  yesterday,  it  ought  to  be  observed  that  he  resigned  his  place  of 
first  clerk  in  the  War  Office  a  year  and  a  half  before  he  was  ap- 
pointed councillor. 

George  III.'s  letters  to  Lord  North  (see  especially 
that  of  February  11,  1774)  express  his  satisfaction  at  this 
result.  On  February  24,  General  Clavering  was  appointed 
Commander-in-chief  of  the  East  India  Company's  forces  ; 
with  Colonel  Monson  to  succeed  him  in  that  command 
in  case  of  Clavering's  becoming  Governor-General.  The 
last  obstacles  to  the  proposed  arrangement  being  thus  re- 
moved, Francis  prepared  for  his  voyage. 

On  the  eve  of  departure,2  Francis  effected  the  arrange- 

1  Francis's  friend,   Dr.   Campbell,  is  thus  mentioned  in  the  'Public 
Advertiser'  report:   'Good  old  Dr.  Campbell  was  brought  from  Queen's 
Square,  and  stayed  till  the  last,  though  every  one  expected  he  would  have 
expired  in  his  seat.' 

2  Just  at  the  period  of  the  departure  of  Francis  for  India  (1774),  appeared 
a  pamphlet  entitled  '  The  Irenarch  :  or,  Justice  of  the  Peace's  Manual ; 
addressed  to  the  gentlemen  in  the  Commission  of  Peace  for  the  County  of 
Leicester.     By  a  gentleman  of  the  Commission.'     To  which  is  prefixed  'A 
Dedication  to  Lord   Mansfield,  by  another  hand.'     Of  this  singular  volume 
(according  to  Mr.  Parkes),  one  copy  only  is  known  to  exist,  which  belonged 
to  Sir  P.  Francis,  and  was  bound  by  him  with  other  tracts.     It  contains  a 
vindication  of  Junius's  views  on  the  Law  of  Libel,  with  extracts  from  the 
'  Letters,'  so  significant  that,  in  Mr.  Parkes's  opinion,  it  '  could  be  written  by 
none  but  Junius  himself.' 


1774]    ARRANGEMENT  WITH  CALCEAFT'S  EXECUTORS.      345 

ment  indicated  in  the  next  letter  with  the  executors  of 
Mr.  Calcraft,  to  which  (it  appears)  he  had  Lord  North's 
consent. 

London,  February  28,  1774. 

Gentlemen, — Being  appointed  by  the  legislature  to  be  one  of  the 
Council  of  Bengal  for  the  term  of  five  years,  and  now  preparing  for 
my  departure,  it  becomes  necessary  to  state  to  you  what  my  wishes 
are,  with  respect  to  the  choice  of  one  of  the  representatives  for  the 
Borough  of  Wareham,  at  the  general  election  or  at  the  next  vacancy. 

On  the  other  side  of  this  letter  is  a  copy  of  a  paper,  written  and 
signed  by  my  late  worthy  friend,  Mr.  Calcraft,  the  original  of  which 
is  in  your  possession.  It  contains  a  request  and  injunction  to  you, 
his  trustees  and  executors,  in  my  favour,  which  I  doubt  not  you  will 
implicitly  comply  with.  But  as  my  absence  from  England  will  pre- 
vent my  immediately  availing  myself  of  the  benefit  and  honour  in- 
tended me  by  Mr.  Calcraft,  it  is  my  earnest  desire  and  request  to 
you,  that  you  will  employ  the  interest  vested  in  you  by  his  will,  to 
return  my  intimate  friend  Christopher  D'Oyly,  Esquire,  of  Little 
Charles  Street,  Berkeley  Square,  as  member  for  the  Borough  of 
Wareham,  at  the  next  general  election  or  at  the  first  vacancy  that 
may  happen,  instead  of  myself.  He  is  a  man  whom  Mr.  Calcraft 
highly  esteemed,  and  to  whom  there  can  be  no  objection  on  any 
account.  My  own  particular  reason  for  wishing  that  he  may  be 
elected  in  my  room  is,  because  I  can  depend  upon  his  honour  that  if, 
on  my  return  from  India,  I  should  require  of  him  to  vacate  his  seat, 
he  will  be  ready  to  do  so ;  and  that  in  the  meantime  he  will  supply 
my  place  in  parliament  with  the  greatest  honour  and  ability.  In 
case  of  his  death  while  I  am  abroad,  I  hope  and  expect  that  due  care 
will  be  taken'  of  my  interest,  and  that  whoever  succeeds  him  shall 
be  bound  by  an  honourable  obligation  to  vacate  the  seat,  if,  upon 
my  return  from  India,  I  should  require  it. 

Christopher  D'Oyly  (with  Single-speech  Hamilton)  was 
accordingly  returned  for  Wareham  at  the  general  election 

CJ    •/  O 

of  1774,  and  again  in  1776,  when  he  had  accepted  the 
office  of  '  Commissary-General  of  the  Musters.'  The 
complaints  of  Francis,  in  his  autobiographical  fragment, 
that  Calcraft's  executors  had  played  false  with  him  in  the 
matter  of  the  representation  of  Wareham,  are  not  to  me 
intelligible. 

Whatever  may  have  been  Francis's  faults,  it  is  certain 


346  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

that  he  succeeded  in  earning  as  zealous  and  disinterested 
friendships  as  often  fall  to  the  lot  of  man.  Several  letters 
addressed  to  him  at  this  period  are  full  of  kindness ;  but 
the  following  from  a  member  of  a  family  related  to  his 
wife,  with  which  the  correspondence  shows  a  long  intimacy, 
breathes  no  ordinary  spirit  of  generosity. 

Preston  Street,  March  30,  1774. 

Dear  Francis, — I  intended  visiting  you  to-night  before  I  saw  you 
this  evening,  and  missing  Mrs.  Francis  shall  not  prevent  it,  although 
to  say  how  she  was  as  late  as  possible  was  one  motive.  You  may 
depend  on  Mrs.  Chandler's  and  my  seeing  her  to-morrow  and  every- 
day that  we  possibly  can,  to  alleviate  her  great  loss  all  that  friends 
can.  Another  motive  was  to  tell  you  I  won't  make  your  insurance. 
God  preserve  you  very  long  to  your  family  !  He  has  been  already 
bountiful  to  you  and  yours  in  His  blessings.  If  His  Almighty  will 
disposes  of  you  otherwise  than  we  wish,  depend  on  it  your  dear 
children  shall  never  want  the  sum  the  insurance  would  have  raised 
them.  God  preserve  you  !  The  four  hundred  shall  be  taken  care  of. 
A  happy  speedy  voyage,  and  every  good  that  can  befal  you,  is  the 
sincere  wish  of  your  affectionate  friend, 

GEORGE  CHANDLER. 

*  I  do  not  suffer  Mrs.  Francis,'  says  D'Oyly,  in  a  letter 
of  nearly  the  same  date,  '  to  indulge  her  melancholy 
thoughts  too  much  :  upon  the  whole  she  behaves  well, 
and  we  will  endeavour  to  think  as  little  of  you  as  possible ; 
and  in  return  I  expect  that  you  are  not  at  all  anxious 
about  your  wife  and  family,  for  you  have  left  those  here 
that  will  take  care  of  them.' 

It  is  due  to  Francis  to  say  that  he  had  himself  made 
as  ample  provision  on  this  head,  prospectively,  as  his  now 
altered  circumstances  seemed  to  allow.  It  is  detailed  in 
the  next  letter  to  his  wife,  and  accompanied  with  very 
characteristic  instructions  as  to  the  management  of  his 
children  during  his  absence. 

London,  March  30,  1774. 

I  have  paid  into  Messrs.  Drummond's  hands  the  sum  of  5001.  for 
your  use,  and  subject  to  your  orders.  This,  with  the  sum  of  93Z., 


1774]  FAMILY  ARRANGEMENTS.  347 

•which  I  leave  with  you,  amounts  to  593Z.  My  intention  is  to  allow 
your  father  25Z.  a  year,  to  be  reckoned  from  the  day  I  embark.  Of 
this  he  has  already  received  ten  guineas  on  account.  You  will  pay 
him  the  remainder  (14Z.  10s.)  any  time  within  the  year ;  but  do  not 
advance  any  more  till  this  time  twelvemonth. 

You  are  to  pay  my  father's  pensioner  half  a  guinea  on  the  twelfth 
of  every  month. 

On  April  1,  1775,  my  trustees  are  directed  to  pay  you  631L  6s., 
or  such  a  proportion  of  that  sum  as  you  may  desire,  and  so  on 
annually.  You  will  leave  it  at  Drummond's,  and  draw  for  it  as  you 
want  it.  Keep  an  account  of  your  drafts  that  you  may  know  how 
your  money  lasts.  If  the  above  annuities  fall  in,  you  will  have  the 
advantage  of  it. 

As  you  are  to  have  the  above  sum  paid  annually  on  a  stated  day, 
it  is  not  material  to  you  whether  I  leave  the  rent,  taxes,  schooling, 
&c.,  paid  up  or  not  to  the  day  of  my  departure,  but  I  shall  leave  you  an 
exact  state  of  those  articles,  as  they  stand  due.  I  wish  you  may  be 
able,  for  three  years  at  least,  to  live  on  this  allowance ;  but  I  should 
be  very  unhappy  to  think  you  were  distressed.  You  are  therefore 
at  liberty  to  apply  to  my  trustees  for  50Z.  more,  if  you  find  you  want 
it  at  the  end  of  the  year.  This,  I  hope,  will  remove  all  difficulties 
and  apprehensions. 

I  have  made  the  best  provision  I  can  for  my  son's  education.  I 
need  not  recommend  it  to  you  to  see  him  often,  and  tell  Mr.  Ribou- 
ville  freely  anything  you  think  amiss.  The  girls  will  fall  more  par- 
ticularly under  your  care.  Sally  is  to  come  home  at  Christmas  next, 
or  at  Midsummer  1775  at  farthest.  I  leave  that  and  everything 
relative  to  the  periods  of  their  going  to  and  quitting  the  school  to 
your  own  discretion. 

I  wish  you  to  live  rather  a  retired,  but  not  a  dull  and  melancholy 
life. 

You  have  acquaintances  enough,  and  I  wish  you  to  avoid  new 
ones.  In  general,  prefer  those  friends  who  live  nearest  to  you.  Let 
the  girls  be  taught  a  grave,  modest,  reserved  carriage.  I  dis- 
like hoydens.  Keep  them  constantly  in  your  company  (when  from 
school),  and  observe  everything  they  do.  Let  them  have  exercise 
abroad,  and  constant  occupation  at  home.  Take  care  what  books 
they  read ;  and  if  you  take  them  to  a  play,  which  should  not  be 
above  once  in  a  winter,  let  it  be  some  ridiculous  comedy  and  panto- 
mime at  which  they  may  laugh,  but  nothing  sentimental,  or  that 
borders  upon  indecorum.  Above  all  things,  never  suffer  them  to  be 
idle.  The  older  they  grow  the  more  necessary  you  will  find  this 
rule  to  be.  When  you  want  medical  assistance  you  may  always 


348  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

have  that  of  Mr.  Adair  and  Dr.  Macnamara.  Keep  an  account  book 
for  all  the  money  you  pay  (exclusive  of  .your  house  and  private 
expenses),  and  mark  the  day  to  which  every  article  is  paid  up. 

This  may  be  the  proper  place,  although  occasioning 
some  anticipation,  to  notice  a  feature  in  Francis's  charac- 
ter which  has  been  often  dwelt  on,  and  exaggerated,  by 
his  enemies.  He  had  the  reputation  of  being  very  close 
in  pecuniar}7  matters.  '  His  warmest  admirers,'  says  his 
hostile  critic  in  the  '  Calcutta  Review,'  '  do  not  seek 
to  conceal  the  fact  that  he  was  utterly  without  generosity. 
His  avarice  and  meanness  v.-ere  proverbial.  It  has  been 
alleged,  indeed,  that  he  invited  men  to  take  up  their  re- 
sidence in  his  house,  and  then  sent  them  in  a  bill  for 
their  board  and  lodging.'  Lord  Brougham  says  in  his 
*  Statesmen  of  the  Reign  of  George  III.' :  '  His  nature  was 
exceedingly  penurious ;  and,  like  all  men  of  this  cast,  he 
stooped  to  the  smallest  savings.  His  little  schemes  of 
economy  were  the  subject  of  amusing  observations  to  his 
friends.'  Lord  Brougham  (who  is  confirmed  on  this  point 
by  Lady  Francis)  is  no  doubt  referring  to  current  anec- 
dotes of  Francis's  later  days ;  and  we  all  know  how  common 
it  is,  after  a  life  of  ardent  passion  and  superabundant 
energy,  for  men  of  his  temper  to  expend  the  last  super- 
fluous eagerness  which  remains  to  them  in  half-serious 
addiction  to  the  *  good  old-gentlemanly  vice.'  As  to  the 
Indian  stories,  it  is  to  be 'remembered  that  Francis  went 
to  India  to  make  a  fortune,  and  did  succeed  in  making  a 
moderate  one ;  and  Indian  civilians,  always  a  hospitable, 
often  an  extravagant  race,  are  very  apt  to  judge  thus 
contemptuously  of  '  uncovenanted '  interlopers  who  do 
not  spend  their  income.  But  a  mean  and  penurious  man. 
during  the  better  part  of  his  life,  Francis  was  not.  On 
the  contrary,  those  who  study  his  private  history  from  the 
materials  which  he  has  left  will  be  disposed  to  think  him 


1774]  ATTENTION  TO  MONEY   MATTERS.  349 

at  once  a  generous  and  a  just  man.  While  he  was  strug- 
gling on  with  an  income  which  must  have  barely  sufficed 
for  his  maintenance,  we  have  seen  how  his  careless  father 
depended  on  the  more  thoughtful  son  for  assistance,  and 
how  he  did  his  best  to  help  his  wife's  needy  family.  He 
was  fond  of  money  doubtless  ;  a  gamester  in  his  younger 
days  on  the  Stock  Exchange,  in  after  times  (as  will  be 
seen)  at  the  whist  table  to  a  most  extravagant  extent ;  but 
he  was  certainly  no  miser.  His  careful  and  repeated 
attentions  to  the  pecuniary  comfort  of  his  family,  during  his 
Indian  absence,  are  creditable  both  to  his  head  and  heart. 
We  have  seen  that  his  original  allowance  to  Mrs.  Francis, 
on  his  departure,  was  at  the  rate  of  £600,  or  rather 
£630  a  year  ;  but  he  complains,  comically  enough,  to  his 
friend  Godfrey  in  a  letter  from  Calcutta  (June  25,  1776), 
'  I  have  repeatedly  directed  my  trustees '  (D'Oyly  and 
Chandler)  'to  increase  her  allowance  to  £800,  and 
not  to  allow  her  to  be  on  any  account  distressed  for 
money.  Instead  of  complying  with  these  requests,  they 
give  her  good  advice,  and,  in  the  midst  of  their  own  in-» 
solent  unbounded  affluence,  prescribe  economy  to  the 
most  careful  and  prudent  of  the  human  species.  Among 
other  things  they  will  not  let  her  have  a  coach,  though 
I  positively  directed  her  to  have  it,  and  am  positively 
determined  she  shall,  as  well  as  every  other  comfort  and 
convenience  that  money  can  purchase.'  At  the  same 
time,  Francis  was,  as  it  seems,  contributing  largely  to  the 
support  of  his  wife's  poverty-stricken  father  Macrabie. 

Mr.  Chandler  and  I  (writes  D'Oyly  to  him  some  time  later — 
April  20,  1777)  take  as  good  care  of  your  money  matters  as  we  can; 
but  if  you  choose  that  your  family  should  not  spend  more  than  8001. 
a  year,  you  should  not  specify  that  sum  in  our  letters,  and  in  theirs 
call  upon  them  to  spend  whatever  they  please,  and  rather  charge 
them  to  live  liberally  and  expensively  in  that  way.  This  you  cannot 
but  see  must  breed  a  little  uneasiness  when  we  try  to  keep  expenses 


350  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

within  what  you  point  out  to  ns,  and  indeed  I  suppose  they  will 
now  reach  1,200Z.  a  year,  instead  of  8001. 

Poor  Mrs.  Francis,  however  (to  sum  up  the  events  of 
later  years),  though  the  simplest  of  women,  does  not 
seem  to  have  been  qualified  to  shine  as  an  economist. 
She  quarrelled  with  her  trustees  for  stinting  her :  parti- 
cularly in  the  matter  of  a  house  in  Harley  Street,  which 
cost  the  very  considerable  rent  (for  those  times)  of  £180 
per  annum.  '  Harley  Street  is  all  the  ton  now,'  writes 
one  of  Francis's  correspondents.  She  complains  to  her 
husband  in  India  (August  27,  1775),  that — 

Mr.  Chandler  has  been  rather  harsh,  though  I  believe  well  meant. 
I  gave  up  buying  a  gown  which  was  to  cost  10Z.  though  I  have  not 
had  one  before  since  you  went.  .  .  I  wished  him  and  Mr.  D'Oyly 
to  examine  my  accounts,  which  they  both  declined.  What  can  I  do  ? 
I  meet  with  some  difficulties,  but  must  swallow  them.  Both  their 
ladies  are  very  advising,  without  knowing  anything  of  the  matter  : 
but  they  live  in  plenty  and  may  do  what  they  please  without  being 
called  to  account :  they  know  nothing  of  children  or  their  expenses. 

On  April  20,  1777,  she  sends  the  following  list  of  her 
expenses : — 

House  rent  and  taxes  in  Harley  Street  .  .  20oJ. 
Housekeeping  at  4  guineas  a  week  .  .  222 
Philip's  school,  and  clothes,  &c.  for  him  .  100 
Servants'  wages,  five  in  number  ...  42 

Men's  liveries 12    12*. 

Girls'  clothes  :  there  are  five  .  .  .  100 
Coals  and  wine,  and  apothecary  ...  80 
Coach,  &c.  .  .  .  '  .  .  .  .120 

Monthlies,  for  myself JJO 

941    12*. 

which  sum  she  afterwards  raised,  by  supplementary  esti- 
mate, to  1,085/.,  including  her  girls'  schooling.  In  1779 
expenses  had  advanced  much  farther.  Bristow,  one  of 
Francis's  Indian  friends  coming  to  London,  finds  her  in 
Harley  Street :  '  her  establishment  and  style  of  living  are 
elegant  without  being  extravagant,  at  least  according  to 


1774]  EMBARKS  FOR  INDIA.  351 

my  ideas,  and  I  imagine  she  does  not  spend  you  above 
£2,000  a  year.' 

His  son  Philip  was  entrusted  to  the  charge  of  a  French 
emigrant  teacher,  M.  Eibouville,  who  also  had  the  care  of 
a  son  of  Lord  Clive.  Francis  had  strong  dogmatical  no- 
tions on  the  subject  of  education,  as  on  so  many  others  ; 
and  he  left  a  carefully- written  paper  in  the  hands  of  M. 
Eibouville,1  containing  his  view  of  the  training  to  be 
adopted  for  his  boy.  For  years  after  his  arrival  in  India, 
Francis  carefully  enters  in  his  letter  books,  along  with  the 
political  and  private  correspondence  of  his  fiercely  agitated 
life,  the  formal  communications  in  French  which  he  re- 
ceives from  the  worthy  M.  Eibouville,  and  the  scrawls  of 
his  little  boy  to  '  papa,' 

After  delays  which  must  have  tried  his  impatient  spirit, 
Francis  left  his  house  in  Duke  Street  for  Portsmouth, 
where  he  was  to  embark  on  board  the  Ashburnham  with 
Clavering  and  Monson,  at  half-past  eight  in  the  evening 
of  March  30,  1774.  His  companion  was  his  favourite 
friend  and  brother-in-law,  Alexander  Macrabie.  Alex- 
ander had  reached  England  from  America  some  months 
previous ;  whether  in  consequence  of  disappointment  in 
the  commercial  or  other  schemes  to  which  he  had  applied 
himself  when  in  that  country,  does  not  appear.  But  he 
now  accompanied  Francis  in  the  quality  of  private  se- 
cretary. They  slept  at  Epsom  ;  and  only  reached  Ports- 
mouth (though  posting  with  four  horses)  at  eight  o'clock 
the  following  evening.  '  KB.,'  says  Macrabie,  '  in  some 
emergencies  two  nags  will  move  as  fast  as  four ;  an  extra- 
ordinary shilling  has  amazing  influence.'  On  the  follow- 
ing day  they  embarked. 

1  Printed  in  Appendix. 


APPENDIX. 


No.  I. 

COPY,  verb,  et  lit.,  of  a  Fragment  of  an  Autobiography 
of  (Sir)  Philip  Francis's  early  life.  It  was  evidently 
written  in  India,  at  Calcutta,  not  later  than  1776,  if  not  a 
year  earlier.  The  original  is  on  the  Government  paper 
he  used  at  that  period  in  India ;  and  the  allusion  to 
current,  unconcluded  affairs  in  India  fixes  beyond  doubt 
the  place  and  above  period  of  the  manuscript. 

I  found  the  fragments  within  a  large  parcel  of  unsorted 
mixed  papers  chiefly  on  Indian  Finance.  On  perusal,  I 
was  immediately  aware  of  the  great  value  of  the  frag- 
ments. The  breaks  with  dots  represent  passages  cut  out 
with  scissors  in  the  original. 

The  mutilations  of  the  Autobiography  there  can  be 
little,  if  any,  doubt  were  made  by  Francis  himself; 
probably  at  some  after  time  on  his  return  to  Europe. 
Occasionally  in  the  manuscript  sentences  or  words  have 
been  interpolated  (not  originally  written)  in  a  varied  or 
later  handwriting  of  Sir  Philip.  The  Autobiography,  or 
its  fragments  as  above  found,  must  of  course  have  been 
brought  home  by  him.  Also,  in  the  same  parcel  I  found 
his  own  copy  of  his  letter  to  Calcraft  of  1st  December 
1770.1  It  is  probable  that  on  second  thoughts,  later  in 

1  This  copy  was  written  on  War  Office  paper. 
VOL.  I.  A  A 


354  APPENDIX. 

life  (and  he  is  known  before  death  to  have  destroyed 
numerous  private  papers),  he  mutilated  portions  of  this 
early  autobiography — preserving  the  fragments  as  memo- 
randa for  another  similar  composition.  Or,  the  fragments 
might  have  been  mislaid  by  him  in  his  packages  on  his 
return  from  Calcutta  in  a  loose  mass  of  India  Financial 
documents,  and  remained  unobserved  and  unknown  in 
the  bundle. 

The  remains  of  this  singular  record  by  Sir  Philip 
are  all  important,  as  illustrating  his  political  opinions  and 
active  co-operation  in  the  opposition  to  the  Grafton  and 
North  administrations — his  confidential  communications 
with  Calcraft  —  his  relations  with  Lord  Chatham,  not 
direct,  but  through  Calcraft — in  solving  the  mystery  as 
to  his  obtainment  of  his  place  in  the  India  Council — and 
generally,  as  expressing  his  views  of  the  political  and 
private  characters  of  the  leading  public  men  of  the  Junius 
period. 

The  autobiography  (with  the  other  discovered  proofs) 
is  most  confirmatory  of  Sir  Philip's  authorship  of  the 
'  Junius'  Letters.  It  records,  further,  the  remarkable  con- 
fession, that  on  reconsidering  his  own  political  services 
of  the  Opposition,  he  had  entertained  mistaken  political 
views,  though  his  convictions  at  the  time  were  *  sincere.' 
This  distinct  admission  is  clearly  an  apology  for  some  of 
the  extreme  personalities  and  anti-ministerial  attacks  of 
Junius. 

The  autobiographer's  allusion  to  Woodfall's  Trial  and 
the  Press,  and  especially  to  the  Middlesex  Election  Ques- 
tion and  Wilkes,  betrays  Francis  in  relation  to  Junius. 
Also,  his  character  of  Chatham  and  Calcraft  exactly  tallies 
with  the  Letters. 

J.  PARKES. 


APPENDIX.  355 

The  Condition  of  our  Commerce  with  Portugal  was  very 
little  improved  by  Lord  Kinnoul's  negociations.  His  Instruc- 
tions, it  is  true,  did  not  intitle  him  to  hold  a  peremptory 
Language.  We  were  involved  in  a  most  expensive  War,  and 
notwithstanding  our  successes,  had  no  Allies  to  spare.  This  at 
least,  in  Mr.  Pitt's  Opinion,  was  no  Season  for  increasing  the 
number  of  our  Enemies.  With  respect  to  Portugal,  I  am  con- 
vinced he  was  mistaken ;  but,  even  if  he  had  thought  it  advisable 
to  adopt  a  firmer  System  of  negociation  with  that  little  Court, 
the  Execution  of  it  must  have  been  disgraced  by  so  feeble  an 
Instrument  as  Lord  Kinnoull.  We  found  a  French  Ambassador 
at  Lisbon,  whose  Organs  were  very  differently  constituted  from 
ours.  It  was  not  possible  for  the  French  Nation  to  be  more 
truly  represented  than  by  the  Comte  de  Merle.  He  was  lively, 
vain,  insolent  and  polite.  With  respect  to  us,  the  most  unlucky 
part  of  his  Character  was  his  Penetration.  He  saw  in  a  Moment 
what  Sort  of  a  Rival  he  had  to  contend  with,  and  resolved,  if 
he  could,  to  lower  the  Triumphs  of  the  English  Nation  by 
mortifying  and  degrading  their  Ambassador.  He  asserted  that 
he  had  an  indisputable  right  to  take  the  Pas  of  the  English 
Ambassador  on  all  Occasions  whatsoever ;  that  the  point  had 
either  never  been  disputed  by  us  ;  or  that  it  had  been  formally 
yielded  and  did  not  admit  of  a  question  ; — and  that  he  was 
determined,  at  all  Events,  to  maintain  the  right  and  Honour  of 
the  Crown  of  France.  It  was  in  vain  for  the  Portuguese 

o 

Ministers  to  propose  Expedients  to  a  Man  of  this  Temper.  He 
would  not  listen  to  anything  that  conveyed  the  most  distant 
Idea  of  Equality,  and  in  fact  he  carried  his  point.  The  question 
was,  which  of  them  should  go  first  into  the  King's  Closet. — The 
French  Ambassador  al  ways  took  his  Station  at  the  JDoor  till  it 
was  opened,  and  would  suffer  no  Man  to  enter  before  him.  In 
this  Situation  Lord  Kinnoull  had  no  honourable  Remedy  but  to 
go  up  to  the  door  and  remove  the  French  Ambassador  by  Force. 
The  other  of  course  would  have  drawn  his  sword,  and  a  Battle 
must  have  ensued  between  them  in  the  King  of  Portugal's 
Presence.  Lord  Kinnoull  had  too  much  Discretion  to  run  the 
risque  of  such  an  Extremity.  Instead  of  taking  the  Quarrel 
upon  himself,  he  stated  the  Case  pretty  fairty  to  Mr.  Pitt,  who 
in  return  sent  him  Orders,  in  the  King's  Name,  to  assert  the 
Precedence  due  to  the  Crown  of  England,  and  dispute  the  Pas 
with  the  French  Ambassador.  By  this  Instruction,  which  he 

A  A   2 


356  APPENDIX. 

neither  had  Courage  to  execute  or  disobey,  Lord  Kinnoull's 
Distresses  were  compleated.  At  last  however  the  Conde  de 
Oeyras  helped  him,  in  some  degree,  out  of  his  Difficulties,  by 
obtaining  a  prior  Audience  for  him  on  the  day  on  which  the 
Marriage  of  the  Princess  of  Brazils  with  her  Uncle  was  declared. 
But  as  this  Audience  was  granted  at  an  unusual  hour,  the 
Point  in  dispute  with  the  French  Ambassador  never  came  in 
issue,  and  in  Effect  was  left  upon  as  disgraceful  a  footing  for  us 
as  ever. 

Lord  Kinnoull,  by  constant  Assiduity  and  Compliance,  had 
ingratiated  himself  with  the  Prime  Minister,  and  of  course  was 
a  sort  of  Favourite  at  Court.  His  F"avour  indeed  did  not  serve 
to  promote  the  Object  of  the  Embassy,  but  it  occasioned  his 
being  treated  with  a  great  deal  of  personal  Distinction  and 
Respect. 

In  Consequence  of  a  Difference  between  the  two  Courts  about 
the  Value  of  a  Present  offered  to  Carvalho,  when  he  was  Envoy 
in  England,  it  had  been  agreed  for  some  years  that  no  Presents 
should  be  given  at  the  Departure  of  their  respective  Ministers. 
Lord  Kinnoull  had  his  audience  of  Leave  in  the  usual  Form, 
and  was  dismissed  with  a  multitude  of  gracious  Expressions.  A 
few  minutes  after  he  had  quitted  the  Closet,  the  King  of 
Portugal  sent  to  desire  to  speak  with  him  again. — '  My  Lord,' 
says  he, '  I  have  taken  Leave  of  the  English  Ambassador,  but  I 
should  be  sorry  that  the  Earl  of  Kinnoull  should  leave  my  Court, 
without  receiving  some  Mark  of  my  personal  Regard  for  him.' 
So  saying,  his  Majesty  presented  him  with  a  gold  Snuff  Box,  in 
which  was  a  Brilliant,  valued  at  twelve  hundred  Moidores. 
—When  a  Favour  is  conferred  in  this  handsome  manner,  the 
Portuguese  call  it  a  Fineza,  and  no  People  understand  better 
how  to  refine  upon  a  Compliment. 

I  do  not  think  it  difficult  to  account  for  their  Conduct,  tho' 
few  Events  have  created  a  greater  Variety  of  Speculations.  The 
Tone,  given  by  the  Court  and  adopted  by  more  than  their 
dependants  at  that  time,  was  to  rail  at  the  Arrogance  of  a 
Minister  who  deserted  the  Service  of  his  Country  at  a  critical 
Conjuncture,  because  the  Privy  Council  did  not  yield  to  his 
Opinion  for  an  immediate  Declaration  of  War  against  Spain. 
This  was  the  substance  of  the  Charge.  The  rest  was  Ornament 
or  Invective.  There  was  some  Appearance  undoubtedly,  but  no 
Truth  in  this  kind  of  Language.  Mr.  Pitt's  resolution  must 


APPENDIX.  357 

have  been  founded  on  a  Consideration  of  three  Facts,  of  the 
reality  of  which  he  had  very  sufficient  Reason  to  be  convinced. 
— Ist  That  the  King's  Confidence,  without  which  the  Post  of 
Minister,  excepting  some  few  extraordinary  cases,  is  either 
unsafe  or  precarious  or  dishonourable,  was  intirely  engrossed  by 
Lord  Bute. — 2d  That  the  King  and  Lord  Bute  were  determined 
as  soon  as  they  could  to  patch  up  a  peace  with  France,  almost 
upon  any  Terms. — 3d  That  if  the  War  with  France  was  con- 
tinued, a  War  with  Spain  was  inevitable  In  this  situation  he 
had  the  Choice  of  three  Systems  of  Conduct  before  him. 

If  he  concurred  with  the  secret  Views  of  the  Closet,  and  made 
himself  the  Instrument  of  an  ignominious  Peace  with  France, 
the  Consequence  would  be,  that  he  must  lose  all  Credit  with  the 
Nation  and  be  turned  out  of  Office  whenever  the  King  thought 
proper.  If  he  continued  to  act,  after  his  Advice  against  Spain 
had  been  rejected,  he  had  nothing  to  expect  but  perpetual 
Contradictions  from  a  decided  Majority  in  Council,  a  total  Loss 
of  Dignity,  Responsibility  without  Power,  and  the  Regret  of 
having  missed  the  most  graceful  Opportunity  of  resigning.  It 
remained  then  for  him  to  insist  on  a  War  with  Spain,  which  in 
spite  of  the  King  would  have  fixed  him  in  the  Ministry,  or  to 
leave  to  his  Enemies  the  Task  of  continuing  the  present  War, 
with  the  prospect  of  another  before  them,  or  the  still  more 
difficult  Task  of  putting  an  End  to  it  on  terms  adequate  to  our 
Successes  and  satisfactory  to  the  Nation.  His  Conduct,  in  my 
Opinion,  was  a  Masterpiece  of  personal  Policy,  of  which,  at  the 
same  time,  his  Country  had  no  reason  to  complain.  He  might 
have  sacrificed  himself  by  continuing  in  a  Post  no  longer 
tenable  with  honour  ;  but  neither  would  the  King  have  suffered 
him  to  hold  it  longer  than  was  necessary  to  disgrace  him,  nor 
would  it  have  been  of  any  Benefit  to  the  Nation.  His  Conduct, 
thus  far,  was  too  bright  and  too  elevated  not  to  receive  some 
Shade  or  Diminution  from  the  Acceptance  of  a  Peerage  and  a 
Pension.  He  deserved  greater  Rewards  from  the  English  Nation, 
but,  at  that  moment,  he  should  have  refused  them  from  the  King. 

The  first  Measure  adopted  by  his  Successors  was  in  effect  the 
highest  Compliment  imaginable  to  the  Man  whose  Advice  they 
had  rejected.  As  a  French  Author  expresses  it, — 'they  paid 
a  sort  of  Homage  to  his  superiority.'  They  had  hardly  taken 
their  seats  in  Council  before  they  were  obliged  to  declare  War 
against  Spain. 


3c8  APPENDIX. 

he  might  deserve  to  be  called  in- 
genious. But  in  the  Conduct  of  Affairs  he  was  literally  Mr. 
Pitt's  Clerk,  with  hardly  any  qualification  but  Zeal  and 
Assiduity.  I  never  saw  anything  like  a  masterly  Performance 
from  his  Pen.  In  private  Life  he  was  amiable  and  respectable. 
No  Man  did  more  for  his  Family  and  his  Friends.  He  was 
chearful  too,  and  happy  in  Society — until  he  came  into  Office 
again  with  Lord  Weymouth.  Conceiving  then  that  he  governed 
the  Nation,  he  grew  proud,  reserved,  and  miserable.  Never 
was  a  better  Man  more  hurt  by  Advancement. 

On  the  Expectation  of  a  War  with  Spain  in  1770,  he  sold 
large  sums  in  the  stocks  on  Speculation,  and  concluding  that 
Lord  Chatham  must  necessarily  be  called  upon  to  take  the 
Lead,  he  persuaded  Lord  Weymouth  to  resign.  Neither  of 
these  Events  taking  place,  it  was  suspected  that  the  considerable 
loss  he  suffered  in  the  Stocks,  added  perhaps  to  the  Eeproache.s 
of  Lord  Weymouth,  drove  him  to  despair,  and  that  he  put  an 
end  to  his  life.1 

As  soon  as  the  peace  was  concluded  Lord  Bute  determined  to 
resign,  yet  to  continue  to  govern  the  King  and  Kingdom,  if  he 
could,  without  appearing  in  any  ostensible  or  responsible 
Employment.  His  Friends  pretended  to  say  that  this  was 
originally  his  Plan,  and  that  he  never  meant  to  remain  in 
Office,  after  he  had  once  accomplished  the  great  work  of  Pacifi- 
cation ;  but  I  have  good  ground  for  judging  differently  of  his 
motives.  I  have  no  doubt  that  both  he  and  the  Princess 
Dowager  meant  that  he  should  continue  Minister  for  Life,  but 
that  he  was  frighted  from  his  Post  by  the  Clamours  of  the 
Nation  and  the  growing  antipathy  against  the  Scotch,  excited 
and  fomented  by  the  writings  of  John  Wilkes.  He  yielded  to 
a  storm,  which  he  might  possibly  have  weathered,  if  he  had 
possessed  courage  enough  to  face  it.  He  thought  however 
that  his  secret  influence  would  still  be  secured,  by  committing 
the  Government  to  three  of  his  dependants.  These  were 
Halifax,  Egremont,  and  George  Grenville.  The  two  first  were 

1  I  can  only  fill  up  this  mutilated  passage  by  the  conjecture  that  it  refers 
to  Robert  Wood  (the  Greek  antiquary,  Francis's  early  patron),  who  was 
Under  Secretary  of  State  under  Lord  Chatham,  and  again  in  1708,  when 
Lord  Weymouth  came  in.  He  died  at  his  country  place  on  September  9, 
1771.  But  I  have  not  seen  anywhere  else  this  suggestion  as  to  the  manner 
of  his  death. 


APPENDIX.  359 

little  more  than  names.  It  was  apparent  that  the  weight  of 
power  would  follow  the  Treasury,  and  devolve  upon  Grenville. 
Fox  now  saw,  with  Spite  and  Eancour,  that  he  had  been  labour- 
ing for  the  Advancement  of  a  Man  he  hated 

There  was  a  Time,  at  which  he  might  have  been  Minister  him- 
self and  succeeded  Lord  Bute  at  the  Treasury.  His  heart  failed 
him  at  the  Juncture,  and  he  repented  when  it  was  too  late. 
After  the  new  Arrangement  was  settled,  he  sent  Calcraft  to 
Lord  Bute  to  say  that  he  was  ready  to  act.  From  that  moment 
I  date  the  Dotage,  which  has  since  reduced  him  to  nothing. 
The  King  however  rewarded  his  Services  with  a  Peerage,  which 
had  before  been  given  to  his  Wife,  and  continued  him  in  the 
Pay  Office.  His  Friends  of  course  fell  from  him  very  fast, 
Rigby  and  Calcraft  among  the  first.  He  accused  them  both  of 
Ingratitude,  as  if  a  Minister  out  of  Power  had  any  claim  to 
Friendship.  How  far  the  first  was  engaged  to  him  I  know  not. 
Calcraft  undoubtedly  owed  his  rapid  Fortune  to  Mr.  Fox's 
patronage.  He  was  the  Son  of  an  Attorney  at  Grantham,  and 
went  to  London  literally  to  seek  his  Fortune.  At  the  age  of 
six  and  forty  he  had  a  landed  Estate,  the  Kent  Eoll  of  which 
was  above  ten  thousand  Pounds  a  year.  In  his  quarrel  with 
Lord  Holland  I  think  he  had  as  much  Reason  of  his  Side,  as  an 
interested  Man  can  have  for  deserting  an  Old  Friend  and 
Benefactor.  There  was  not  Virtue  enough  in  either  of  them  to 
justify  their  quarelling.  If  either  of  them  had  had  common 
Honesty,  he  could  never  have  been  the  Friend  of  the  other. 
Lord  Shelburne,  Marquis  of  Lansdowne,  who  was  then  no  more 
than  a  Messenger  between  Fox  and  Bute,  had  heard  the  former, 
in  a  fit  of  Passion  or  Peevishness,  declare  that  he  was  determined 
to  quit  the  Pay  Office,  and  retire  from  public  Affairs.  This 

Intelligence  he carried  to  Lord  Bute  who 

made  his  Arrangement  accordingly.  Fox,  who  had  no  thoughts 
of  relinquishing  seven  thousand  pounds  a  year,  and  certainly 
had  not  commissioned  Shelburne  to  answer  for  his  Intentions, 
denied  his  having  ever  made  such  a  Declaration.  Shelburne 
appealed  to  Calcraft,  who,  preferring  the  Interest  of  Truth  to 
every  other  Consideration,  gave  Evidence  against  his  patron. 
The  Question  between  these  virtuous  Men  was,  how  far  Honour 
was  to  yield  to  or.  prevail  over  Gratitude.  Fox  affirmed  that,  if 
his  service  required  it,  Calcraft  was  bound  to  foreswear  himself. 
Calcraft  on  the  other  hand,  seeing  the  Decline  of  his  Patron's 


360  APPENDIX. 

Influence,  which  it  was  apparent  he  could  never  recover,  did 
not  apprehend  that  Gratitude  ought  to  carry  him  so  far.  They 
parted  with  more  public  hostility  than  was  quite  prudent  ia 
men  so  well  acquainted  with  each  other's  Defects.  A  Recon- 
ciliation was  impossible,  for  each  of  them  knew  the  Heart  of 
his  Enemy.  From  that  time  we  may  date  the  Origin  of  Mr. 
Calcraft's  Patriotism.  Before  he  openly  went  over  with 
Shelburne  and  Barre  to  Lord  Temple  and  Chatham,  he  thought 
proper  to  declare  War  with  Lord  Bute  by  the  most  violent  and 
outrageous  Manifesto  that  ever  was  penned  against  a  Minister 
or  a  Gentleman.  Bute  shewed  his  Letter  to  my  Father,  and 
complained  of  it  as  the  grossest  Insult  he  had  ever  received. 
What  were  the  Causes  of  Calcraft's  Resentment  I  know  not, 
but  I  can  answer  for  it  he  preserved  it  to  the  moment  of  his 
Death. 

Amidst  all  these  villainous  Transactions,  my  Father  had  more 
reason  to  complain  of  ungrateful  Treatment  than  anybody. 
From  the  year  1756,  he  had  been  incessantly  employed.  He 
almost  lived  at  Holland  House,  and  was  the  Friend  and 
Favourite  of  the  Family.  He  taught  Stephen  and  Charles  to 
read,  and  Lady  Sarah  Lennox  and  Lady  Susan  Strangeways  to 
declaim.  The  Conduct  of  these  Ladies,  it  must  be  confessed, 
has  not  done  much  Credit  to  his  Instructions.  Lady  Susan 
thought  proper  to  marry  a  Player,  whose  Person  promised  more 
than  it  was  able  to  perform.  Lady  Sarah,  encouraged  by  the 
Vanity  or  Ambition  of  the  Family,  looked  at  nothing  less  than 
the  Crown.  The  young  King  was  evidently  more  partial  to  her 
than  suited  the  Views  of  Bute  and  the  Princess  Dowager.  Yet 
he  permitted  them  to  choose  a  Wife  for  him,  and  had  not 
Spirit  enough  to  choose  even  a  Mistress  for  himself.  Lady 
Sarah  was  ready  to  be  either.  When  that  hope  failed,  she 
accepted  of  Sir  Charles  Bun  bury  and  was  married  by  my  Father, 
who,  I  presume,  has  been  heartily  cursed  by  them  both  for  the 
share  he  had  in  bringing  them  together.  It  is  remarkable 
enough  that  both  these  Ladies  were  disappointed  in  their  Men. 
Considering  all  Circumstances,  my  Father  was  not  unreasonable 
in  expecting  an  Irish  Bishoprick  or  some  handsome  Provision  in 
the  Church.  Lord  Holland  affected  to  lament  his  Inability  to 
serve  a  Man,  whom  he  professed  to  love  and  esteem  ;  yet  had 
Interest  enough  to  make  Mr.  Young,  a  poor  Curate,  who 
married  his  natural  Daughter,  a  Bishop  in  Ireland.  I  have 


APPENDIX.  361 

often  seen  that  worthy  Prelate  and  his  Wife  at  Breakfast  and 
Dinner  with  his  Patron's  Servants.  Such  Christian  Humility 
•entitled  him  to  a  Mitre. 

When  Lord  Holland  went  to  Italy  in  1763,  he  left  my  Father 
as  unprovided  for  as  when  he  found  him ;  except  that  he 
bequeathed  him  as  a  Legacy  to  Lord  Bute,  who  transferred  him 
to  George  Grenville.  Thro'  this  Recommendation,  he  after- 
wards obtained  a  Pension  out  of  the  Privy  Purse  of  three 
hundred  Pounds  a  year.  In  the  meantime  however,  he  felt  the 
Distress  of  his  situation,  and  was  stung  with  the  Idea  of  so 
long  having  been  the  Dupe  of  a  Scoundrel.  His  Resentment 
burst  into  a  Flame.  He  wrote  to  Lord  Holland  in  violent 

terms,   which where,   for 

want  of  better  Employment  he  busied  himself  in  laying  schemes. 

In  these     . I  concurred  with  him 

heartily.  I  had  no  hope  of  advancement  but  on  the  line  of 
Opposition.  I  was  sincere  tho'  mistaken  in  my  Politics,  and 
was  convinced  the  Ministry  could  never  stand  the  Consequences 
of  the  Middlesex  Election.  In  the  separation  of  Chatham  and 
Temple,  when  the  former  accepted  the  Privy  Seal,  Calcraft  had 
carefully  kept  up  an  Interest  and  secret  Correspondence  with 
them  both.  It  was  not  long  before  Chatham  discovered  that 

had  cajolled  and  deceived  him, 

that  the  Duke  of  Grafton  was  undermining  him  in  the  Closet, 
and  that  the  System  of  the  double  Cabinet,  which  had  ruined 
Lord  Rockingham's  administration, con- 
tinued to  operate  as  powerfully  as  ever.  As  soon  as  there  was  a 
prospect  of  a  rupture  between  Lord  Chatham  and  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  Calcraft  made  it  his  Business  to  reconcile  the  Brothers, 
and  effected  his  purpose  by  convincing  them  that  their  mutual 
Interest  required  it.  This  indeed  was  obvious,  and  to  such  Men 
no  other  Motives  were  necessary.  The  next  Step  was  to  effect 
a  reconciliation  between  Chatham  and  George  Grenville.  This 
would  not  have  been  a  difficult  matter,  if  nothing  but  Demon- 
strations of  Enmity  had  passed  between  them.  Expressions  of 
hearty  Contempt  are  not  so  easily  forgiven.  The  three  Brothers 
consented  however  to  a  Meeting,  at  which  every  Man  was  ready 
to  throw  the  Blame  of  former  Mistakes  upon  himself,  and  shed 
Tears  in  abundance.  They  were  all  good  Actors,  and  performed 
their  parts  to  Admiration.  Another  Object  still  required  the 
good  Offices  and  Mediation  of  Mr.  Calcraft.  His  great  property 


362  APPENDIX. 

and  constant  profession  of  wanting  nothing  for  himself,  gave 
him  a  considerable  weight  with  all  Parties.  The  Marquis  of 
Rockingham  was  at  the  head  of  the  only  Set  of  Men,  that,  in 
point  of  Numbers,  deserved  to  be  called  a  Party.  He  con- 
sidered Chatham  as  the  immediate  Cause  of  the  Dissolution  of 
his  own  Administration  and  hated  him  accordingly,  tho'  in  effect 
it  was  Northington  who  gave  the  finishing  Stroke  to  his  Credit 
with  the  King.  This  Temper  carried  him  so  far  that,  when 
Chatham  afterwards  made  him  some  Advances,  Lord  Rocking- 
ham refused  to  receive  his  visit,  and  turned  him  out  of  his 
House  without  seeing  him.  But  lasting  Enmities  are  much 
upon  the  same  footing  with  lasting  Friendships  in  the  Breast  of 
a  Statesman.  The  Interest  of  all  parties  evidently  required  a 
Coalition,  and  Calcraft  was  again  the  Mediator  ;  at  least  he  told 
me  so.  To  his  Industry  and  activity  the  Opposition  were  in 
some  measure  indebted  for  the  formidable  Appearance  they 
made  in  the  beginning  of  the  Year  1770,  when  Chatham, 
Camden,  and  Granby  resigned,  when  Yorke  put  an  end  to  his 
Life,  when  Grafton  abandoned  the  Government,  and  North 
succeeded  to  what  I  believe  he  himself  and  every  Man  in  the 
Kingdom  at  that  time  thought  a  forlorn  Hope.  It  is  not  easy 
to  say,  by  what  means  all  these  flattering  Expectations  were 
disappointed.  Calcraft  thought  we  might  have  succeeded,  if 
Camden  had  not  given  the  Duke  of  Grafton  a  respite  of  some 
days,  and  kept  the  Seals  after  they  had  been  demanded  of  him, 
while  the  Negotiation  with  Charles  Yorke  was  depending ;  or  if 
Granby  had  resigned  with  Spirit,  and  thrown  all  his  Commissions 
at  the  King's  feet ;  or  at  last,  if  the  Leaders  of  the  Opposition 
could  have  agreed  among  themselves  about  the  Treasury.  It 

was  soon  discovered  that  they  were  quarrelling 

about  the  spoils,  before  they  had  gained  the  Victory.  The 
Court  were  well  informed  of  these  Divisions,  and  determined  to 
hold  a  steady  Countenance.  The  Influence  of  the  Crown  is  so 
powerful,  that  if  the  Administration  can  but  gain  time,  they 
must  always  conquer. 

Notwithstanding  the  famous  Protest  of  forty-two  Lay  Lords, 
and  all  Chatham's  Eloquence,  Calcraft  and  I  soon  saw  that  the 
Game  was  lost  with  respect  to  Opposition  in  general,  but  we 
still  thought  it  possible  that  Chatham  might  be  sent  for  alone. 

This  would  have  suited  him much  better 

than  a  general  change  of  hands  and  we  knew  he  had  no  scruples 


APPENDIX.  3G3 

about  deserting  his  new  Friends.  On  the  Approach  of  a  Rupture 
with  Spain  about  Falkland  Islands,  these  views  revived.  Cha- 
tham came  forward  again,  and  attacked  the  Ministry  with 
wonderful  Eloquence.  I  took  down  from  Memory  the  famous 
Speech  he  made  on  the  22nd  of  Nov.  1770,  and  had  it  published 
in  a  few  days.  It  had  a  great  Effect  abroad,  and  alarmed  or 
offended  the  Ministry  so  much,  that  they  determined  to  shut 
the  Doors  of  the  House  of  Lords  against  all  Strangers,  even 
Members  of  the  other  House.  I  was  present  at  that  ridiculous 
Scene  of  Eiot  and  Confusion,  when  Lord  Gower,  first  Marquis 
of  Stafford,  interrupted  the  Duke  of  Manchester  in  the  middle 
of  his  Speech,  and  moved  that  the  House  should  be  cleared. 
After  a  loud  and  shameful  Clamour,  which  lasted  half  an  hour, 
the  Opposition  Lords  retired  in  a  Body  and  protested.  The 
Stroke  however  was  fatal  to  the  Opposition.  It  was  in  vain  to 
make  Speeches,  when  there  was  no  Audience  to  be  informed  or 
inflamed,  nor  any  means  of  dispersing  them  among  the  people. 
Still  however  we  thought  a  Spanish  War  inevitable,  and  that 
Chatham  must  be  employed.  Lord  Wey  mouth,  on  that  Con- 
viction, resigned  the  Secretary  of  State's  Office ;  and  I  lost  five 
hundred  pounds  in  the  Stocks.  By  that  loss  however  I  gained 
Knowledge  enough  of  the  Mode  of  transacting  Business  in  the 
Alley,  to  deter  me  from  entering  into  such  Traffic  again.  The 
Convention  with  Spain  sunk  me  and  my  hopes  to  a  lower  State 
than  ever.  If  Chatham  had  come  in,  I  might  have  commanded 
anything,  and  could  not  but  have  risen  under  his  Protection. 

In  the  Course  of  the  above  Debates  in  the  House  of  Lords,  a 
circumstance  happened,  which  I  think  deserves  to  be  remem- 
bered, that  it  may  appear  how  much  the  greatest  Men  may  be 
and  often  are  indebted  to  little  ones.  Woodfall  the  printer  had 
been  tried  before  Lord  Mansfield  at  Nisi  Prius  for  printing  a 
Libel, — I  think  it  was  Junius'  Letter  to  the  King,  and  found 
guilty  of  printing  and  publishing  only.  Lord  Mansfield  ac- 
cepted the  Verdict.  The  Attorney  General  moved  the  Court  of 
King's  Bench  that  the  Verdict  might  be  entered  up  according 
to  the  legal  sense  of  the  Words.  Woodfall's  Counsel  petitioned 
for  a  new  Trial.  According  to  the  established  Proceedings  of 
the  Court,  the  Grounds  for  granting  or  refusing  a  new  Trial 
must  arise  from  some  defect  in  the  Verdict  itself,  and  must  ap- 
pear on  the  face  of  the  Record.  Lord  Mansfield,  in  making  his 
Report  to  the  Court,  stated  the  Charge  which  he  had  given  to  the 


164  APPENDIX. 

Jury,  and  went  into  all  the  Proceedings  at  nisi  prius.  All  this 
Discourse  was  calculated  to  serve  other  Purposes.  With  respect 
to  the  question  before  the  Court,  it  was  extrajudicial  and  im- 
proper,— as  the  Lawyers  call  it,  he  travelled  out  of  the  Record. 
I  caught  a  hint  of  this  Irregularity  from  Bearcroft  one  night  at 
a  Tavern,  and  immediately  drew  up  an  Argument  upon  it  in 
proper  Form,  and  sent  it  to  Calcraft,  desiring  him  to  transmit 
it  to  his  Friend.  Within  three  days  after,  I  heard  the  great 
Earl  of  Chatham  repeat  my  Letter  verbatim  in  the  House  of 
Lords,  not  only  following  the  Argument  exactly,  but  dressing 
it  in  the  same  Expressions  that  I  had  done.  His  Speech  the 
next  day  flamed  in  the  Newspapers,  and  ran  through  the 
Kingdom.1 

Such  were  the  Triumphs  or  Amusements  of  a  Party  that  had 
almost  all  the  Wit,  and  Popularity,  and  Abilities  in  the  King- 
dom to  support  them,  but  never  could  carry  a  question  in  either 
House  of  Parliament.  I  saw  plainly  that  my  Connections  would 

never  lead  me  to  any  solid  Advantage 

1 77o,  or  till  a  Vacancy,  of  which  there  was  no  Expectation.  Even 
then  I  must  resign  my  place,  and  fight  my  Way  to  advance- 
ment with  a  broken  and  languishing  Opposition.  The  Prospect 
on  every  side  was  gloomy  and  dispiriting.  From  that  time  I 
never  ceased  to  form  Projects  for  quitting  the  War  Office. 
India  was  the  only  Quarter  where  it  was  possible  to  make  a 
Fortune,  and  this  Way  all  my  Thoughts  were  directed.  They 
were  rather  Thoughts  than  Views,  for  I  saw  no  Opening,  and 
only  Observation  ;  and,  by  changing  the  Scene,  helped  to  relieve 
my  Thoughts.  Calcraft  agreed  to  join  me  at  Naples  in  the 
Autumn.  We  parted  with  every  possible  Mark  of  Affection, — 
never  to  meet  again.2  The  Journal  of  my  Travels  which  is 
preserved  among  my  Papers  in  England,  contains  little  or 
nothing  of  Importance  except  a  curious  Interview  with  the 
Pope,  Ganganelli.  I  wrote  a  particular  Account  of  it  to  Doctor 
Campbell.  Nothing  could  exceed  the  Courtesy  with  which  his 
Holiness  treated  us;  but  there  was  no  dignity  in  his  deport- 
ment nor  Judgement  in  his  discourse.  He  seemed  to  have  got 
a  set  of  speeches  by  heart,  calculated  to  please  and  flatter  such 

1  Apparently  this  is  the  letter  printed  in  the  present  Appendix. 
1  See  Calcraft's  last  letter  to  Lord  Chatham,  August  21,  1772  (Chatham 
Correspondence) . 


APPENDIX.  366 

Englishmen  as  went  to  see  him.  His  Encomiums  of  the 
English  Nation  were  too  extravagant  to  be  sincere.  The  scene 
however  was  curious,  considering  who  were  the  parties,  and 
deserved  to  be  remembered. 

To  compleat  my  Afflictions  I  received  an  Account  of  Cal- 
craft's  Death,  while  I  was  at  Naples.  I  knew  what  I  had  to 
expect  and  was  not  much  disappointed  at  hearing  that  he  had 
left  me  nothing  but  a  thousand  pounds,  and  an  Injunction  to 
his  Trustees  to  bring  me  into  Parliament  for  Wareham  during 
the  Minority  of  his  Sons. 

Nothing  could  be  more  express  than  this  Injunction,  nor 
more  explicit  than  the  Eefusal  of  his  worthy  Bepresentative 
to  comply  with  it,  when,  before  my  departure  for  India,  1 
called  upon  them  to  substitute  Mr.  D'Oyley  during  my  ab- 
sence.1 In  this  Instance  they  undoubtedly  departed  from 
the  Intentions  of  the  Testator,  but  they  adhered  scrupulously 
to  his.  While  my  Ruin  was  in  suspence  I  had  felt  infinitely 
greater  Distress  of  Mind  than  now  when  it  was  determined. 
Extremities,  once  clear  and  unavoidable,  reduce  a  Man  to  take 
his  Eesolution,  and  the  very  Act  of  resolving  gives  Vigour  to 
the  Mind. 

After  an  Absence  of  five  months,  I  returned  to  England, 
leaving  my  Companion  at  Paris.  Constant  Anxiety  made  me 
restless  and  impatient.  The  Place  I  was  not  in  seemed  always 
preferable  to  my  Actual  Situation.  I  felt  that  I  was  a  burthen 
to  my  Friends  as  well  as  to  myself.  But  the  generous  heart  of 
D'Oyley  never  failed  me.  He  hardly  had  a  Thought,  a  Word, 
or  Action,  that  was  not  directed  to  do  me  Service.  We  imme- 
diately agreed  that  all  former  Schemes  or  Views,  in  the  political 
line  were  to  be  buried  in  Oblivion  ;  that  my  Certainty  of  a  Seat 
in  Parliament  was  to  be  made  as  public  as  possible^  and  in  the 
meantime  that  I  was  to  . 

Soon  after  my  return,  I  went  to  Bath  to  see  and  take  a  final 
leave  of  my  good  Father.  A  Succession  of  paralytic  Strokes  had 
gradually  destroyed  his  Faculties,  and  ruined  a  noble  Consti- 
tution. I  found  him  reduced  to  a  State  lower  than  Infancy, 
and  insensible  even  to  the  pleasure  of  seeing  a  Son  he  adored. 
May  I  never  exhibit  so  melancholy  a  sight ;  or  may  they  who 


1  D'Oyly,  however,  did  obtain  the  seat  for  Wareham.     I  presume,  there- 
fore, Francis  only  alludes  to  some  delay. 


S06  APPENDIX. 

behold  me,  look  forward,  as  I  do,  with  Tenderness  and  Sym- 
pathy, to  their  own  decline,  and  to  the  possibility  of  a  similar 
Misfortune!  My  Father  died  on  the  5th  of  March  1773.  I 
have  kept  all  his  Letters  with  several  of  my  own,  and  earnestly 
desire  that  they  may  be  preserved  for  ever  in  my  Family. 

The  Hopes  of  Employment  were  yet  distant  and  uncertain. 
The  Interval  was  to  be  amused,  and  if  possible  with  Credit. 
Monsr  de  Pinto's  Essay  on  Circulation  had  fallen  into  my  hands 
abroad.  I  thought  I  might  reap  some  Benefit  from  giving  a 
Translation  of  it  with  Notes  to  the  Public.  I  went  over  to  the 
Hague  in  May  to  consult  the  Author,  who  received  me  with 
Transports  of  Joy.  He  was  a  perfect  Atheist,  with  a  most  bene- 
volent heart.  He  was  vain  of  his  Book,  but  had  no  Notion  of 
Fame,  except  that  which  he  could  enjoy  in  his  Lifetime.  I  had 
a  Letter  of  Introduction  from  Lord  Suffolk  to  Sir  Joseph  Yorke, 
the  Prince  of  Coxcombs.  It  was  the  time  of  the  Fair,  so  I 
passed  a  Week  tolerably  well  between  .  .  .  Jews  and 
Gentiles.  The  Work  was  nearly  finished,  when  I  was  called 
upon  to  act.  .  .  .  Upon  accepting  my  present  Appoint- 
ment, I  surrendered  all  my  Papers  to  Stephen  Baggs,  in  whose 
name  the  Translation  has  been  published. 

But  neither  this  nor  any  other  Occupation  was  sufficient  to 
defend  me  from  Fits  of  Despondence.  It  was  in  vain  to  shut 
my  Eyes  to  my  Situation.  Wherever  I  went  or  whatever  I  did, 
the  Spectre  haunted  and  pursued  me.  Mr.  Alexander  Mack- 
rabie  was  lately  returned  from  America.  He  had  purchased  a 
thousand  Acres  for  me  in  Pennsylvania,  where  I  meant  to  secure 
a  retreat  for  myself  or  my  Family,  if  ever  England  should  cease 
to  be  the  Seat  of  Freedom.  The  question,  now  seriously  agi- 
tated in  my  Mind,  was  whether  I  ought  not  to  transplant  myself 
at  once,  and  take  Possession  of  this  Establishment  before  my 
little  capital  was  exhausted.  This  was  actually  the  subject  of  a 
dismal  Conversation  between  Mackrabie  and  me,  on  the  fourth 
of  June,  when  we  accidentally  met  a  Gentleman  in  the  Park, 
who  informed  me  that  John  Cholwell,  one  of  the  intended  Com- 
missioners for  India,  had  declined  the  Nomination.  I  imme- 
diately went  to  D'Oyley,  who  wrote  to  Grey  Cooper.  It  was 
the  King's  Birthday  and  Barrington  was  gone  to  Court.  I 
saw  him  the  next  morning;  as  soon  as  I  had  explained  my  Views 
to  him,  he  wrote  the  handsomest  and  strongest  Letter  imagi- 
nable in  my  favour  to  Lord  North.  Other  Interests  con- 


APPENDIX.  3G7 

tributed,  but  I  owe  my  success  to  Lord  Barrington.  It  was 
remarkably  fortunate  for  me  that  Cholwell  had  deferred  his 
Resignation  to  so  late  a  Day.  The  Regulation  Bill  had  been 
some  days  before  the  House  of  Commons.  If  the  Minister  had 
had  more  time  to  look  about  him,  I  should  probably  have  been 
defeated  by  some  Superior  Interest.  He  sent  for  me  on  Tues- 
day the  8th  of  June,  and  with  a  multitude  of  flattering  Expres- 
sions desired  my  leave  to  recommend  me  to  Parliament  to  be 
one  of  the  Council  General  at  Bengal,  in  addition  to  Mr. 
Hastings,  General  Clavering,  Colonel  Monson,  and  Mr.  Barwell. 
From  the  Tenor  of  his  Discourse  I  conceived  an  Idea  of  the 
intended  Bill,  very  different  from  the  Truth.  I  conceived  that 
we  were  to  be  armed  with  extraordinary  Powers  to  correct 
enormous  Abuses.  If  such.  Abuses  did  not  exist,  the  Inter- 
position of  Parliament  invading  the  positive  Rights  .  .  . 
.  .  .  .  Fortune,  he  was  true  to  himself.  Such  a  Man  will 
be  true  to  his  friend.  He  cut  his  Throat  a  few  months  after  I 
left  England.1  This  was  the  Effect  of  Distemper.  When  I 
see  the  Mind  of  such  a  Man  so  governed  by  his  Body,  what  am 
I  to  think  of  the  Machine  ! 

Ten  months  elapsed  between  the  passing  of  the  Regulation 
Bill  and  our  departure  for  India.  A  great  part  of  this  Interval 
was  lost  in  mere  Inactivity.  The  rest  was  employed  in  debates 
and  Intrigues  at  the  India  House.  The  Duke  of  Richmond  and 
George  Johnstone,  at  the  head  of  a  numerous  Party  went  every 
possible  length  to  retard,  embarrass,  and  disgrace  us.  In  the 
Event,  however,  they  wore  out  their  real  strength,  by  mixing 
Passion  in  their  debates,  where  nothing  but  the  public  Good 
should  have  been  profest,  and  by  obstinately  disputing  little 
points.  The  numbers  they  shewed  in  the  Ballot  against  General 
Clavering,  plainly  demonstrated  the  power  of  the  Party,  if  they 
had  had  prudence  enough  not  to  exert  it  but  upon  questions  of 
Importance.  In  consequence  of  very  injudicious  Management, 
they  were  not  able,  at  several  of  the  last  general  Courts,  to 
muster  above  thirty  or  forty  voices,  whereas,  at  the  Ballot 
against  General  Clavering,  they  had  voted  above  Three  hundred. 
The  Duke  was  vehement  and  unguarded  in  his  Speeches,  but  the 
Newspapers  often  attributed  more  to  him  than  he  said.  Some 
Reflections  on  General  Clavering's  Character,  supposed  to  have 

1  Lord  Olive. 


368  APPENDIX. 

been  delivered  by  the  Duke,  produced  a  Challenge  from  the  Gene- 
ral. The  Challenge  produced  a  disavowal  of  the  Words.  This 
Event  did  not  tend  to  conciliate  the  affections  of  our  Opponents. 
On  the  other  side,  the  Minister  not  only  had  not  a  Majority  in  the 
Court  of  Directors,  but  could  not  rely  even  upon  the  few,  who  pro- 
fessed to  be  attached  to  him.  When  those  shameful  Instructions 
were  produced,  on  which  I  gave  him  my  Opinion  at  large,  he 
had  not  Interest  enough  to  get  them  altered,  and  was  afraid  to 
bring  the  Affairs  of  the  India  Company  again  into  Parliament. 
Colonel  Monson  had  private  reasons  of  Disgust,  and  wished  to 
get  rid  of  the  business  at  any  rate.  General  Clavering  appeared 
to  be  very  uncertain  whether  he  should  act  under  such  Instruc- 
tions or  not,  and  dropped  hints  of  resigning.  Lord  North  was 
equally  weary  of  hearing  objections,  and  alarmed  at  the  stile  in 
which  they  were  made.  Provided  he  could  once  dispatch  us 
out  of  England,  I  believe  he  cared  but  little  what  became  of  us 
afterwards.  To  a  man  behind  the  Curtain,  it  is  really  pitiful  to 
observe  in  what  manner  the  affairs  of  a  great  Nation  are  con- 
ducted. At  last,  however,  all  Difficulties  were  surmounted,  if 
not  removed  ; — that  is,  Objections,  which  could  not  be  answered, 
were  undervalued.  The  Solicitor  General  did  not  scruple  to 
tell  us  that,  in  spite  of  our  Instructions,  when  once  we  were  in 
India,  we  might  act  as  we  thought  proper;  and  indeed,  it  must 
be  admitted,  that,  considering  the  uniform  Conduct  of  the  Com- 
pany's former 

The  Prospect  now  before  the  Governor  General  and  Council 
of  Bengal  is  by  no  means  flattering.  A  great  and  important 
Trust  appears  to  be  reposed  in  us,  when  in  fact,  unless  we 
hazard  the  Consequences  of  assuming  an  Authority  which  strictly 
does  not  belong  to  us,  we  do  not  within  ourselves  possess  the 
means  of  doing  either  Good  or  Evil.  Since  the  Interposition  of 
the  Legislature  was  first  deemed  necessary  to  save  the  East 
India  Company  from  ruin,  the  Powers,  intended  to  be  annexed 
to  this  Commission,  have  been  so  strangely  qualified,  cor- 
rected and  reduced,  not  only  by  the  Company's  Instructions, 
but  by  the  King's  Charter  establishing  a  Supreme  Court  of 
Judicature  at  Fort  William  (of  which,  being  an  Act  of  the 
Crown,  we  have  so  much  the  greater  reason  to  complain),  that 
very  little  of  the  original  Idea  of  Government,  in  altering  the 
Constitution  of  the  Company,  seems  to  be  left  at  present,  nor  is 


APPENDIX.  .  369 

it  easy  to  say  what  is  the  clear  distinct  Object  of  our  Mission, 
or  what  is  the  Nature  of  the  Services  expected  from  us. 

We  are  to  collect  and  manage  the  Revenues  of  Bengal ;  but 
the  Board  of  Trade  may  draw  every  Rupee  out  of  the  Treasury  ; 
and  the  Court  of  Judicature,  by  awarding  Damages  to  the 
Natives  against  our  Collectors,  may  render  it  impracticable  for 
us  to  collect  the  Revenues  in  the  only  way  in  which  they  ever 
were  or  can  be  collected  in  that  Country. 

The  other  Presidencies  are  not  to  make  War  or  Peace  with- 
out our  consent ;  yet  a  special  Order  from  the  Court  of  Directors 
makes  that  Consent  unnecessary ;  and  tho'  it  was  evidently 
the  view  of  the  Legislature  to  unite  the  whole  Force  of  the 
British  Empire  in  India  into  one  System  of  Policy,  that  wise 
purpose  will  be  defeated,  whenever  the  opinion  of  the  Court  of 
Directors,  with  respect  to  the  expediency  of  a  Commencement 
or  Cessation  of  Hostilities  in  any  particular  Presidency,  shall 
differ  from  ours. 

We  are  to  reform  abuses;  yet,  tho'  we  are  the  Executive 
Power  of  the  State,  there  is  a  considerable  number  of  the  Com- 
pany's principal  Servants,  whom,  we  have  no  discretionary 
Power  to  remove  or  suspend,  and  who  may  continue  in  Offices 
of  high  Trust,  unless  their  Offences  fall  within  the  reach  of  the 
Law,  and  can  be  proved  according  to  the  strict  forms  of  a  Court 
of  Justice. 

We  are  vested  with  the  whole  Civil  and  Military  Power  of 
Bengal,  yet,  by  our  Instructions  we  are  confined  to  observe  the 
strict  Rule  of  Rank  and  Seniority  in  filling  up  all  Vacancies 
whatsoever, — so  that  Parliament  and  the  Company  between 
them  have  constituted  us  a  Government  without  the  Power  of 
Rewards  or  Punishments.  In  the  History  of  Mankind  there  is 
not  an  Example  of  such  an  Institution. 

We  are  the  Executive  Power  of  the  State,  yet  the  Power  of 
reprieving  or  executing  Convicts  is  lodged  with  the  Court  that 
gives  the  Sentence.  We  are  not  trusted  with  the  Exercise  of 
Mercy,  possessed  by  our  Predecessors.  We  can  neither  stop  a 
Prosecution  nor  pardon  after  Conviction.  Even  the  office  of 
recommending  to  the  royal  Mercy  is  reserved  to  the  Court  of 
Judicature. 

We  are  the  Legislative  Power  of  the  State,  yet,  our  Laws  are 
not  valid,  unless  they  are  approved  and  confirmed  by  the  Court 
VOL.  I.  B  B 


370  APPENDIX. 

of  Judicature.  The  Wisdom  of  the  English  Constitution  care- 
fully separates  the  Judicial  and  Legislative  Powers.  In  Bengal 
they  will  be  in  a  great  measure  united  in  the  same  hands. 

When  we  see  the  present  Government  of  Bengal,  which 
(considering  the  Occasion  of  its  Appointment  and  the  high 
Authority  under  which  it  acts),  ought  to  have  been  invested 
with  new  and  extraordinary  Powers,  in  effect  disarmed  of  those 
ordinary  Powers  which  are  incident  and  essential  to  the  Con- 
stitution of  every  Government,  it  may  be  thought  frivolous  or 
superfluous  to  cavil  at  Regulations  which  seem  only  to  affect 
our  personal  Consequence  and  Dignity.  Yet  since  in  all  Coun- 
tries, and  in  the  East  more  especially,  the  Authority  of  the 
Ruler  and  the  obedience  of  the  subject  depend  much  on  Opinion, 
and  since  Opinion  is  chiefly  determined  by  Appearances,  we 
have  Reason,  in  a  public  view,  to  remonstrate  against  the  De- 
gradation we  suffer  by  the  Rule  of  Precedence  established  in 
the  Charter  of  Justice. 

The  Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Judicature,  who 
is  not  a  member  of  the  Council,  immediately  takes  place  of  all 
those  Persons,  except  the  Governor,  to  whom  the  Regency  of  the 
Country  is  committed  ;  and  the  same  Pre-eminence  is  secured 
to  the  present  Puisne  Judges  over  those  who  shall  succeed  us 
in  the  Council.  The  natural  Conclusion,  in  the  Mind  of  the 
Native,  must  be,  that  the  Judicial  is  the  first  Power,  and  the 
Judges  the  first  Persons  in  the  State.  This  is  not  a  principle 
admitted  in  any  other  Government ;  and  least  of  all  should  it 
have  been  adopted  in  a  Government,  where  the  Executive 
Branch  has  in  fact  no  real  Power  to  compensate  for  a  Diminu- 
tion of  Dignity  and  Appearance. 

But  when  all  the  objections  to  the  plan  and  construction  of 
the  Bill  are  considered,  I  see  none  so  powerful  and  judicious  as 
one  stated  by  the  dissenting  Lords,  in  their  protest  of  the  llth 
of  June  1773,  viz. — 'We  think  ourselves  bound  to  declare 

*  against  the  manifest  Contradiction  and  Absurdity  of  this  Bill, 

*  which,  stating  Abuses  as  now  existing  in  India  for  the  Ground 
'  of  its  Regulations,  yet  appoints  the  very  Persons  to  preside 

*  there,  who,  if  the  Allegations  in  the  Bill  be  true,  must  be 

*  concerned  either  by  Neglect  or  actual  Commission,  in  all  the 

*  abuses  complained  of.' 

The  person  who  drew  up  this  protest,  I  presume,  knew  some- 
thing more  of  Hastings  and  Barwell  than  we  do. 


APPENDIX*  371 


No.  II. 

Hough  Notes  by  Mr.  Parkes  on  the  Manuscripts  of  the 
'  Private  Letters  of  Junius  to  Wood/all^  and  oilier 
Wood/all  Papers.  (See  p.  199.) 

BEFOKE  returning  Mr.  Woodfall  the  tin  box  of  all  the 
Junius  extant  manuscripts,  six  months  and  more  in  my 
possession.1 

1.  All  the  MSS.  and  the  divers  corrections  of  the  press 
in  the  extant  Letters  are  in  one  and  the  same  handwriting ; 
and  that  in  that  of  Sir  Philip  Francis.     All  the  arbitrary 
marks  are  his,  and  contemporaneously  the  same  as  Sir 
Philip's  corrections  in  his  own  copies  of  the  contemporary 
bookseller's  re-publication  of  the  Junius'  Letters. 

2.  The  fictitious  writing  varies  between  No.  1,  20  April, 
1769,  and  the  last  MS.  letter  13  January,  1773,  no  doubt 
according   to   leisure  or   pressure    of   time   in   writing, 
materials  of  manipulation,  place,  convenience,  and  instru- 
ments of  writing,  or  as  in  one  instance  (of  the  lost  but 
engraved  letter  No.  6)  according  to  sobriety !     And  see 
Sir  Philip's  specimen  of  the  same  '  loose '  hand  in  one 
letter  to  Mrs.  Francis,  in  which  letter  he  intimates  that 
though  not  drunk  he  is  not  sober ! 

MSS.  answering  to  '  Private  letters  '  in  Woodfall's  ed. 
of  Junius  (1812). 

1  They  were  subsequently  purchased  by  Mr.  Parkes. 

B   B   2 


872  APPENDIX. 

No.  1. — No  day  or  date,1  nor  any  identity  of  time  of  writing. 
It  is  a  slip  of  War  Office  folio  paper,  by  waterlines  of  one  inch 
and  a  half  (rather  more),  signed  C.  The  postscript  is  in  the 
corner  of  the  scrip — rather  smaller  writing  than  the  body.  The 
handwriting  is  fictitiously  upright,  smaller  than  his  after  hand, 
but  disguised,  palpably  Sir  P's. 

Cover,  if  correctly  given,  posted  and  post  marked,  directed 
'  Mr.  Woodfall,  Printer,  Paternoster  Row ;'  and  in  a  more 
anonymous  and  different,  and  earlier  hand  of  Francis. 

No.  2. — A  note  sheet,  small,  made  out  of  thinner  paper ;  no 
watermark ;  paper,  no  War  Office  identity,  and  apparently  on  a 
sort  of  waste  or  rough  copy ;  cheaper  paper.  Handwriting  easy, 
not  regular  Junius'  disguised  hand ;  not  particularly  upright, 
but  Francis's  hand  palpably. 

Not  dated  more  than  *  Friday.'  No  cover.  The  note 
written  longitudinally ;  C.  disguised  hand,  same  as  No.  1 ;  some 
capitals  common :  whether  waxed  or  wafered  doubtful,  remains  so 
small  (apparently  and  probably  wax)  ;  no  impression  remaining. 
May  or  may  not  have  been  in  a  posted  envelope,  or  put  in  at 
the  City  or  Gray's  Court  office  by  hand.  Note.  The  file  of  the 
P.  Adventurer  proves  the  date  within  a  day  at  most.  Directed, 
'  Mr.  Woodfall,'  « to  be  opened  by  yourself  only.' 

No.  3. — A  note  paper,  probably  cut  from  War  Office  paper, 
by  watermark  lines,  small  disguised  but  less  later  Junius*  hand. 

No  direction  to  Woodfall ;  marked  on  outside  '  Private ;'  pro- 
bably an  envelope,  whether  posted  or  hand  delivered  unknown. 
Note  wafered,  with  large  (like  official)  wafers;  dated  on  '  Satur- 
day.' No  date,  only  '  Saturday.'  Marked  outside,  private. 

No.  4. — On  small  4to  paper,  apparently  a  half  folio  War 
Office  paper  then  in  use,  doubled  into  small  4to,  and  War  Office 
watermark,  cut  in  half  at  the  watermark.  On  outside  no 
direction,  only  'private?  no  wafer  or  seal  mark;  whether  by 
post  or  hand  can't  be  known.  First  clear  marks  of  Francis' 
hand.  The  Latin  quotation  palpably  Francis'  hand.  No  date 
whatever.  Marked  outside,  'private.' 

No.  5. — On  War  Office  gilt-edged  4to  writing  paper,  War 
Office  watermark.  No  date,  except  '  Friday  night ;'  folded  as  a 

1  Few  of  these  private  notes  are  dated.  The  dates  in  the  editions  of 
Junius  were  presumably  added  by  Mr.  Woodfall. 


APPENDIX.  373 

letter,  lightly  waxed  impression  purposely  obscure — begins  '  i 
have.'  Directed,  'Mr.  Woodfall,  private."1  No  postmark,  or 
exterior  envelope  identifiable. 

No.  6. — A  note  of  Woodfall's  or  G-oode,  *  Lent  to  Duppa  (in 
pencil),  in  ink,  and  never  returned.'  This  note,  however,  is 
luckily  copper-plated  in  the  Woodfall  1812  three  vol.  ed., 
and  was  in  a  loose,  less  disguised  hand  than  any  other  of 
these  singular  autographs,  being  probably  penned  on  a  Sunday, 
perhaps  late ;  the  writer  was  '  fresh.'  And  see  a  letter  of 
Francis  to  his  wife,  of  exactly  same  varied  hand,  wherein  he 
says  he  was  not  drunk  and  not  sober.  And  the  War  Office 
records  abound  with  similar  loose  or  careless  slanting  hand- 
writing of  Francis. 

Whether  dated,  or  enveloped,  or  on  what  paper,  can't  be 
known — unless  the  autograph  letter  (as  probable)  some  day 
comes  to  light  in  private  possession  or  sale.  I  have  tried  in  vain 
to  trace  it  through  Duppa's  relatives. 

No.  7  is  a  posted,  postmarked  letter,  marked  in  letter  de- 
liverer's or  postmaster's  MS.,  name  outside,  '  Lanemand,'  or 
some  such  name.  Obliterated  coronet  wax  seal  (Barrington's), 
and  impression  stamped  with  a  watch-key  or  blunt  point.  En- 
velope quarter  of  a  folio  sheet.  War  Office  paper,  and  divided 
watermark  ditto.  Folded  4to.  Inside  letter  a  small  4to.  folded 
War.  Office  folio,  and  ditto,  but  different  watermark.  Only 
dated,  f  Wednesday  night.' 

No.  8. — Half  a  sheet  of  false  note  paper,  not  to  be  identified 
as  War  Office,  but  apparently  so.  No  day  or  date.  Directed 
in  one  of  Francis'  peculiar  larger  hands,  s  To  Mr.  Woodfall ;' 
no  cover,  nor  wax  or  wafer ;  must  have  gone  in  an  envelope. 

No.  9. — No  date,  only  '  Friday  night ;'  written  (not  note 
ways),  on  half  4to  sheet.  War  Office  watermark,  divided  by 
knife  or  scissors — apparently  a  folio  half-sheet  of  War  Office 
paper,  doubled  4to.  The  first  bold  Junius'  fictitious  hand,  and 
wide  lined,  two-thirds  of  an  inch  between  lines. 

No.  10. — War  Office  watermark — the  larger  office  folio  paper, 
half  a  sheet  made  into  large  4to  full  sheet.  *  Thursday  night,' 
no  other  date,  folded  as  a  usual  letter,  waxed,  seal  partially  pre- 
served— remains  not  one-eighth  of  an  inch,  and  never  full  im- 
pression apparently.  Eemarkably  bold  clear  hand.  More  pal- 
pably Francis'  hand  than  any  preceding.  No  postmark. 


374  APPENDIX. 

No.  11.— Cut  half  folio  War  Office  4to  page.  War  Office  cut 
in  two,  watermark.  No  day  or  date.  No.  direction,  cover  or  post- 
mark, but  (apparently)  in  old  Woodfall's  hand,  endorsed, 4  private 
letters,'  *  JUNIUS.' 

Another  also  marked  11.  Postmarked,  and  the  real  one. 
No  date.  C. 

War  Office,  gilt-edged.     4to  paper. 

No.  12.— 

No.  13. — War  Office  gilt-edged  full  4to  letter  paper — water- 
mark full.  Only  dated  '  Thursday ;'  .black  waxed  down  inside 
folding  and  apparently  only  wafered.  No  post-mark — direction, 
*  For  Mr.  Woodfall,  Printer,  Paternoster  Row.'  Wax  smudged. 

No.  14. — A  slip,  6  inches  long  by  4£  inches  wide  ;  no  water- 
mark ;  waterlines  of  a  scrap  of  War  Office  folio  paper ;  appa- 
rently Woodfall  had  cut  the  original  paper,  as  at  back  is  a 
direction  cut,  the  rema'ins, — '  oodfall.'  No  day,  date,  or  cover. 

No.  15. — 4to  sheet  of  War  Office  gilt-edged  paper;  no  day 
or  date  ;  no  postmark  :  folded  as  a  usual  letter.  Large  and 
double  impressed  disguised  impression  seal  (probably  remains 
of  Lord  B.'s  arms),  coronet ;  smudged,  and  inside  waxed. — 
Note.  Insides  evidently  waxed  to  prevent  letter  being  *  barrelled.' 
Unsigned. 

No.  16. — Half  folio  page  of  War  Office  paper,  made  into  4to 
sheet  (small);  no  signature.  Outside  directed  to  'Woodfall, 
Paternoster  Row ;  no  day  or  date.  Sealed — no  impression ; 
intentionally  obscured  impression.  War  Office  watermark. 

No.  17. — MS.  beautifully  written  (query,  at  Bath,  26th 
December,  1769);  no  date;  no  direction;  no  day;  no  cover. 
Quarter  of  a  folio  War  Office  paper,  and  watermark  cut. 
Pencil  note  that  it  must  have  been  written  about  the  time  of 
the  prosecution  of  Woodfall's  father,  which  the  context  proves, 
though  exact  date  unascertainable. 

No.  18. — Posted  and  postmarked ;  *  Mr.  Woodfall,  printer, 
Paternoster  Row;'  waxed  and  obscured;  'punched.'  Blank 
4to  half-sheet;  envelope,  5 -inch  War  Office  folio  slip;  partial 
cut  watermark.  No  date  ;  no  signature  or  initial. 

No.  19. — No  date  or  day,  nor  direction;  half  a  folio  War 
Office  watermarked  paper,  folded  into  small  note  paper. 

Exact  date  (beginning  of  February,  1770)  must  be  doubtful, 
though  probably  correct. 

No.  20. — A  quarter  of  a  half  folio  page  only ;  no  date ;  no 


APPENDIX.  375 

direction ;  no  cover.  War  Office  paper ;  a  fragment  of  War 
Office  watermark  left,  at  bottom  of  the  scrap — not  above  quarter 
of  an  inch. 

No.  21. — 4to  gilt-edged  War  Office  letter  paper,  and  War 
Office  watermark. 

First  post-marked  and  posted  letter  to  'Mr.  Woodfall,  Printer, 
Paternoster  Row.'  '  Saturday ;'  no  date.  Waxed  inside  and 
outside  ;  seal  outside  flattened  purposely. 

Nos.  21,  22  (marked  probably  22,  23). — A  scrap — part  of 
folio ;  fragment  of  War  Office  paper  and  watermark.  Dated 
'  Sunday '  only ;  no  cover,  and  no  direction. 

No.  23. — Posted  and  postmarked ;  fragment  of  direction 
only,  but  certain  posted,  by  postmark  date.  War  Office  water- 
mark and  waterline.  Wax  seal ;  disguised.  '  Friday  noon ' 
only.  4to  from  folio  half  page. 

No.  24. — Half  a  sheet  of  4to  War  Office  gilt-edged  letter- 
paper  (outside  page).  No  date  ;  no  signature.  Marked  outside 

*  Private.'     This  is  in  the  running  Francis'  private  hand ;  but 
evidently  his  and  Junius'  by  the  marks.      *  Private '  (flying 
hand). 

No.  25. — A  scrap  single  note  paper,  from  folio  paper;  no 
watermark,  but  waterlines  War  Office  apparently.  Dated  only 

*  Wednesday  night.'     No  envelope;  but  see  vol.  i.  p.  215,  for 
Endorsement.      Signed  *  C.'      Outside — '  The  inclosed  strikes 
deeper  than  you  imagine.'     The  *  i '  an  unfinished  afterthought 
also,  but  finished  outside. 

No.  26. — Half  a  sheet  of  note-paper.  '  Friday,  1  o'clock.' 
No  direction,  envelope,  or  postmark ;  no  watermark ;  apparent 
fragment  of  War  Office  folio  paper.  Paper  lined  '  W.O.' 

No.  27. — Posted;  postmarked  paid.  Postmarks  (two)  illegi- 
ble. Paper,  War  Office ;  no  watermark,  but  War  Office  lines ; 
half  a  folio  sheet,  doubled  (and  cut  less)  into  4to  sheet.  '  I 
have  recd  yr, '  &c.  No  day  or  date.  Smudged  seal — unde- 
cipherable. 

No.  28. — No  date,  day,  or  signature.  One  of  the  first  Junius' 
fine  fictitious  handwriting.  War  Office  folio  paper  and  water- 
mark, made  into  small  rough-edged  4to.  Seal  quite  obscured 
(fragment  seal). 

No.  29. — Posted;  postmarked  '31  Jan.  177  .  Woodfall.' 
War  Office  folio  paper ;  watermarked.  Half  made  into  4to 
letter-paper.  Seal. 


376  APPENDIX. 

No.  30. — '  Tuesday  noon.'  Half  a  page  of  note-paper  ;  no 
watermark ;  War  Office  paper,  by  waterlines.  No  envelope  or 
direction. 

No.  31. — Slip — an  inch  and  half  of  folio  ;  watermark  ;  War 
Office  paper;  no  day,  or  date,  or  envelope.  (Apparent  haste, 
and  written  after  some  notice  of  newspaper  signal  ?) 

No.  32. — Half  note-paper;  no  date  except  *  Monday;'  War 
Office  folio  paper ;  a  small  fragment  of  War  Office  watermark 
of  folio  lined  paper.  No  ascertainable  envelope. 

No.  33. — Half-sheet  of  War  Office  watermarked  folio  paper ; 
no  day  or  date  ;  marked  outside  (  Private.'  '  It  will  be,  &c.' 
No  envelope  ;  fine  bold  Junius'  hand. 

No.  34. — 3-inch  slip  of  folio  War  Office  lined  paper.  *  Friday 
noon '  only.  No  envelope  ;  a  darker  after-ink. 

No.  35. — Half  note-paper ;  slip  of  War  Office  folio  paper  ; 
no  date,  except  at  bottom  *  Thursday?  No  postmark  ;  hand 
delivery ;  seal  obscure  ;  paper  of  envelope  unknown. 

No.  36. — No  day  or  date ;  no  envelope ;  a  note  sheet  of 
War  Office  folio  paper;  the  watermark  cut,  but  part  extant. 

No.  37. — No  day  or  date ;  a  cross  cut  of  folio  waterlined 
War  Office  paper ;  lined  ;  no  watermark  ;  no  envelope. 

No.  38. — No  day  or  date,  or  signature,  or  initial ;  cross  half- 
sheet  note-paper  (scrap)  ;  a  fragment  of  War  Office  watermark ; 
no  signature  or  initial.  l  the?  &c. 

No.  39. — Scrap  of  two  inches,  and  more,  cut  from  folio  War 
Office  paper,  with  small  fragment  in  corner  of  its  watermark. 
Envelope  apparently  half  a  sheet  of  gilt-edged  4to  War  Office 
paper  ;  seal  obscured,  and  not  distinguishing.  *  Yours,'  &c. 
outside ;  following,  to  '  The  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,' 
in  Junius'  hand  ;  *  1 4  March.' 

No.  40. — War  Office  folio,  cut  into  half-sheet  of  small  4to. ; 
War  Office  watermark  partly  left.  '  The  above,'  &c. ;  no  enve- 
lope. '  For  Mr.  W.' 

No.  41. — One  half-folio  War  Office  sheet  (not  the  watermarked 
half) ;  lined ;  doubled  into  a  4to  sheet,  and  letter  written  not 
on  first  page,  but  within ;  no  day  or  date.     Superscription ; 
evidently  hand-delivered,  unless  post  envelope.     Seal  palpably 
obscured  ;  indeed,  stamped  by  a  blunt  instrument. 
Directed — '  Mr.  Woodfall.     Private  and  particular.' 
No.  42. — Posted  ;  postpaid  ;  post  mark  evidently  the  month 
of  November.     A  folio  half-sheet  of  War  Office  watermarked 
paper,  folded  into  a  small  4to  sheet ;  .rough  edges.     Little  post- 


APPENDIX.  377 

mark,  'Six  o'cl. ;'  letter  carrier,  *  Hay.'  Sealed;  seal  not 
recognisable,  apparently  a  man's  head  in  armour,  but  impres- 
sion is  '  stumped '  by  some  blunt  instrument. 

No.  43. — No  day  or  date ;  two-thirds  of  a  folio  half- sheet, 
written  fully,  but  doubled  down  as  a  note,  and  marked  only 
1  Private.'  War  Office  paper,  folio,  and  full  middle  watermark. 
Bold  and  careful  writing,  but  smaller  than  usual.  (Inserted  in 
the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  13th  November  1771.) 

No.  44.— Full  date,  <27  Nov.  1770.'  Woodfall,  Jun.'s  pencil 
notes,  'this  date  should  be  1771 ;'  '  the,'  &c.  A  bit  of  folio, 
about  two-fifths ;  a  fragment  of  War  Office  watermark ;  folio 
War  Office  lined  paper.  *  D.  Gr.,'  not  '  David  Grarrick  ;'  and  just 
above  two  carefully  erased  and  paper-scratched  outlines,  quite 
illegible.  Paper  scratched  thin  by  knife  or  other  means  in 
erased  two  lines. 

No.  45. — Kelating  to  the  proofs  of  the  author's  edition.  No 
envelope,  date,  or  direction.  Written  on  half  of  a  page  of 
folio  ;  War  Office  watermark  and  paper,  with  mark  entire. 

No.  46. — No  envelope  ;  no  day  or  date.  Half  of  a  4to  War 
Office  folio  paper,  and  its  watermark,  partial  fragment.  (Noble 
specimen  of  hand.) 

No.  47. — Ditto,  ditto  in  all  respects.     Watermark,  fragment. 

No.  48.- — Half  a  4to  page ;  thinner  paper,  and  no  distinctive 
War  Office  paper,  nor  any  watermark. 

Date,  '  6  Jan.  '72,'  in  darker  ink,  and  different  tint  to  body 
of  letter.  Query.  Is  this  paper  not  that  of  his  London  written 
letters  ?  It  so  looks,  and  that  he  was  away  from  Town.1  The 
ink,  paper,  and  writing  also  vary  from  his  London  modes,  except 
his  dating  the  letter  as  above. 

Note.  The  envelope  is  London  War  Office  half  4to  sheet  and 
watermark  fragment.  No  postmark ;  only  directed — '  To  Mr. 
Woodfall,  Printer,  in  Paternoster  Eow.'  Seal  palpably  messed. 

No.  49. —  No  date  except  *  Saturday.'  A  posted,  postmarked 
letter  directed  to  'Woodfall,  printer  &c.,  Paternoster  Eow.' 
Written  on  half  folio  War  Office  watermarked  paper,  doubled 
into  4to  sheet.  Pale  ink. 

No.  50. — No  date  or  day ;  bit  of  5 -inch  cut  of  folio  ;  water- 
lined  War  Office  folio  paper ;  no  watermark ;  no  signature. 
Stronger  ink. 

No.  51. — Posted ;  post  marked.     (Alarmed.)     Only  dated  on 

1  He  was  at  Bath  (see  p.  2~1). 


878  APPENDIX. 

'  Saturday.'  (Noted  by  Woodfall,  Jun.  See  *  Answers  to  Cor- 
respondents,' January  20,  1772.)  Half  folio,  War  Office  water- 
mark, made  into  4to  sheet.  Large  official  wafer,  same  exactly  as 
War  Office ! 

No.  52. — No  day,  or  date,  or  envelope.  Woodfall  or  Goode's 
pencilled  note  outside  clearly  only  noted  it  as  'about  1772,' 
which  doubtless  it  was,  and  in  January.  The  hiatus  is  *  BLOODY 
WRETCH  BARRINGTON.' 

No  initial  or  signature ;  half  a  note-sheet  of  apparent  War 
Office  folio,  fragment  cut ;  no  watermark,  but  War  Office  water- 
lined. 

No.  53. — On  a  4to  sheet,  folded  out  of  a  half  folio  War  Office 
sheet ;  posted  and  post  marked ;  BLACK  waxed ;  directed  to 
*  Mr.  Woodfall,  Paternoster  Row.'  Seal  disguised — flattened  ; 
insides  also  waxed.  No  day,  date,  or  initial,  or  signature. 

No.  54. — No  date — '  Monday '  only  ;  first  word  of  three  lines. 
No  signature  or  initial.  4to  sheet  of  half  folio,  and  another, 
War  Office  watermark  and  waterlined.  Postmark,  '  12  o'cl.  G.' 
Penny  paid  apparently  '  Monday.'  Eed  sealed ;  palpably  key- 
stamped  out  impression.  Directed  to  *  Woodfall,  Printer,  P.  R. 

No.  55. — '  Monday  night.'  4to  sheet  of  War  Office  half 
folio  sheet,  c.  watermark  perfect.  Pencilled  'about  17  Feb. 
1772.'  Sealed;  keyed  out. 

No.  56. — 6-inch  scrap  of  War  Office  folio  paper ;  no  water- 
mark, but  same  waterlined  ;  no  day  or  date.  Postscript  hiatus, 
that  '  bloody  wretch."1  No  envelope. 

No.  57. — Half  a  sheet  of  folio  War  Office  watermarked,  water- 
lined  paper.  Letter  written  within  side,  natural  side  blank. 

Posted  and  postmarked;  postmarks  illegible  (Titrate?*)  BLACK 
waxed  ;  impression  disguised.  Directed  '  Mr.  W.,  Printer, 
P.  Row.' 

No.  58. — A  different  War  Office  watermark.  4to  sheet,  made 
out  of  half  folio ;  no  date  ;  '  Tuesday.'  Posted  and  postmarked ; 
postday  illegible,  except  'paid'  (as  all).  Black  waxed,  appa- 
rently by  a  wafer  seal.  No  initial,  date,  or  signature.  Directed 
'  To  Mr.  Woodfall,  Printer,  Paternoster  Row.'  The  pencil  note 
on  this  renders  the  date  quite  uncertain,  unless  the  '  P.  A.' 
can  fix  it. 

No.  59. — Watermark  no  longer  War  Office.  In  a  4to  sheet ; 
posted ;  postmark  partially  left.  No  seal  or  wax  (gone  a 
little) ;  directed  as  always  to  '  P.  Row.'  '  Thursday '  only. 


APPENDIX.  379 

Latin  quotation,  in  exact  hand  of  Francis.     Letter  lapped  inside. 
War  Office  watermark. 

No.  60. — Folio  half-sheet,  4to'd.  Water  and  line  water  not 
War  Office  (doubtful  paper).  Red  wax  sealed ;  key  stamped 
out.  12  o'clock  postmark ;  posted  and  postmarked  *  L  A  Gr.'  (?) 
before.  War  Office  watermark. 

No.  61. — Blank  cover,  posted  ;  postmarked  cover  ,  red  wax 
head  (copied).  Slip  of  folio  War  Office  pa,per,  watermarked — 
no  watermark.  Two  inches  only. 

'No.  62. — An  inch  only  of  War  Office  folio  water  lined  paper ; 
apparent  cover  probably  sent  with  MS.  Cover  oblong,  about 
7  inches  ;  thin ;  rather  broken  in  parts  by  wear ;  no  postmark 
on  any  of  the  larger  bulk  remaining ;  probably  delivered  by 
hand,  as  over  post  weight.  Seal  nearly  perfect;  apparently 
No.  3  in  engraved  seals. 

No.  63. — Posted  and  postmarked  letter,  by  London  penny 
post ;  cramped  Junius  date,  after  beginning  letter,  in  close 
margin,  '  1 9  Jan.,'  '  i,'  &c.  His  final  autograph  letter.  New 
mode  of  parenthesis.  No  time  mark  remaining.  Less  Junius 
fictitious  hand,  smaller,  but  same.  4to  ;  apparently  a  4to  folded 
half  folio,  and  same  watermark.  '  Mr.  Woodfall,  printer, 
Paternoster  Row.'  Wafered. 

N.B. — All  the  letters  to  Woodfall  are  folded  in  the  exact 
same  form  his  contemporaneous  posted  letters  are  to  Mrs. 
Francis. 

No.  64. — Henry  Sampson  WoodfalPs  letter  to  Junius.  This 
letter  is  evidently  the  original  letter  of  the  printer  to  Junius. 
It  is  sealed  with  his  family  seal ;  has  been  opened.  It  must 
have  been  reclaimed  by  the  writer.  It  is  directed,  '  For  Mr. 
F.  H.'  The  seal  is  apparently  a  fox's  head  ;  I  think  a  crest  of 
a  female  branch  of  the  Woodfall  family.  F.  may  be  assuredly 
thought  to  denote  the  surname  initial  of  Francis,  but  it  is 
almost  certainly  that  of  Mr.  Fretley,  and  was,  probably,  almost 
certainly,  by  the  correspondence,  sent  to  the  'Fretley'  direction. 
Not  claimed ;  Woodfall  probably  '  recouped'  it. 

N.B. — Mr.  Dilke  is  of  my  opinion,  and  had  noted  the  above 
facts  in  his  *  Notitia.' 

The  Title  of  the  Author's  Edition. 

Woodfall  sent  Junius  a  proof  of  a  first  title,  in  type,  not 
engraved  title.  Junius  returned  the  proof,  with  a  note  at  back 
of  proof  title : 


380  APPENDIX. 

'  I  think  a  plate  would  look  handsome  thus  — 


All  these  are  miserable.'  (As  though  other  specimens  had 
been  sent  by  Woodfall,  and  returned  by  Junius  with  this 
observation.) 

Note.  The  proofs  of  the  author's  edition  (1771-2)  are  all 
corrected,  and  the  notes  in  MS.,  by  Junius  himself;  evidently 
by  the  corrector  arbitrarily  and  on  the  spur  of  the  moment  — 
not  by  any  copyist. 

The  dedication  and  preface  are  all  in  his,  the  same  exclusive 
handwriting.  They  are  evidently  clean  copied  by  the  writer 
(not  the  one  only  original  MS.);  but  the  copies  are  so  altered 
in  sense  and  after  copy  as  to  demonstrate  that  the  copyist  was 
the  author  himself,  and  that  he  improved  his  composition  by 
corrections,  or  rather  by  additions  in  the  copy. 

Moreover,  all  have  the  numerous  and  arbitrary  marks,  as 
corrections,  of  P.  Francis  —  the  *,  the  v  —  and  divers  other  indi- 
vidual marks  ;  and  the  same  as  in  his  own  printed  corrected 
copies  of  Junius. 

Also,  the  paper  of  the  dedication  and  preface  is  War  Office 
folio;  two  distinct  and  the  same  watermarks  and  waterlines 
being  in  every  single  page  ;  the  half  pages  answering. 

Scotus.  —  MS.  all  extant,  in  clear  but  more  than  ordinary 
smaller  hand  than  usual  in  Junius  ;  closer  lined.  Half  a  sheet  of 
folio;  War  Office  watermark  and  lined;  no  assignable  envelope. 

The  proof-sheets  of  the  author's  two  volume  edition,  and  the 
notes  in  MS.,  alone  incontestably  show  that  Junius  was  his  own 
copyist.  The  sense  and  arrangement  of  sentences,  transpositions, 
and  deles,  demonstrate  that  the  composer  wrote  all  such  emen- 
dations. The  handwriting  is  often  less  disguised,  i.  e.  more 
careless  and  natural,  especially  in  occasional  corrections  of 
numbers  of  the  *  P.  Adventurer  '  (used  as  copy),  and  in  the 
figures  of  the  manuscript  dates.  Also,  all  the  arbitrary  marks 
of  correction  —  carets,  addenda,  asterisks,  &c.  —  are  palpably 
those  of  Sir  Philip  Francis,  not  only  as  used  by  him  habitually 
in  the  War  Office,  but  in  his  private  letters  at  the  period. 

The  poem  'Harry  and  Nan'  also,  in  similar  respects,  is 
equally  the  same  as  MS.  poetry  of  Sir  P.  Francis,  contemporary. 

J.  PARKES. 


APPENDIX.  381 


NO.   III. 

MEMORANDA,  1  September,  1857,  of  Conversation  with 
old  Miss  Woodfall  (get.  89),  of  Dean's  Yard,  Westminster, 
surviving  child  of  H.  S.  Woodfall,  proprietor  and  printer 
of  the  '  Public  Advertiser'  in  the  period  of  Junius' 
Letters. 

Miss  Woodfall  has  always  resided,  of  late  years,  with  her 
present  surviving  nephew,  Mr.  Henry  Dick  Woodfall,  printer, 
in  Dean's  Yard.  I  had  known  her  for  two  years  past,  and  dming 
occasionally  with  her  nephew.  Her  faculties  are  perfect,  ex- 
cepting a  slight  deafness.  She  is  a  clever,  educated  old  maid, 
of  singular  vivacity  and  physical  health,  taking  daily  walking 
exercise  alone,  and  attending  Morning  Prayers  in  Westminster 
Abbey  daily. 

Miss  Woodfall's  memory  is  perfect  on  subjects  past  as  well  as 
present.  I  called  to-day  chiefly  to  get  information  on  some 
dates  respecting  her  own  family.  She  told  me  that  she  was  born 
on  the  8th  October,  1768,  at  ;  the  year  of  publication 

of  the  first  Junius'  Letters.  Her  grandfather,  Henry  Woodfall, 
was  a  printer,  and  first  founded  the  newspaper.  -  He  died  in 
middle  life.  Her  father,  the  succeeding  printer  and  part  pro- 
prietor of  the  journal,  printed  and  published  it  in  premises  at 
the  corner  of  Ivy  Lane,  Paternoster  Eow.  His  name  was  Henry 
Sampson  Woodfall, — Sampson  the  maiden  name  of  his  mother. 
He  died  12th  December,  1805,  aged  about  66.  He  was  first 
educated  at  near  London,  and  subsequently  was  placed 

in  St.  Paul's  School.  Miss  Woodfall  says  he  was  a  particularly 
intelligent,  well-informed  man,  for  his  times;  that  when  he 
entered  St.  Paul's  School,  he  was  a  proficient  in  all  the  usual 
elementary  knowledge  taught  in  the  latter  public  school,  and 
that  he  used  to  say  that  in  truth  he  had  acquired  little  at  St. 


382  APPENDIX. 

Paul's  beyond  the  acquirements  he  took  there.  She  says  that 
her  father  had  a  younger  brother,  William  Woodfall,  who  was 
also  a  printer,  and  who  set  up  the  'Morning  Chronicle,' (?) 
that  her  father  did  not  consider  himself  well  used  by  the 
rivalry  of  such  latter  journal,  but  so  particularly  attached 
was  her  father  to  her  uncle,  that  the  circumstance  never  inter- 
rupted their  strong  fraternal  attachment.  That  her  uncle 
William  was  the  well-known  first  good  reporter  of  Parliamentary 
Debates,  that  he  reported  exclusively  from  memory,  that  she 
remembers  when  she  was  young  her  uncle  would  come  into  the 
house  where  she  resided  near  the  Houses,  and  write  his  reports 
in  the  family  sitting-room,  that  she  recollects  some  of  the  young 
people  talking  and  laughing,  and  her  saying,  *  Shall  we  not  dis- 
turb you,  uncle,'  and  he  said,  '  No,  I  don't  care  for  your  noise ; 
talk  on  as  you  like.' 

Her  father  died  12th  December,  1805.  From  all  conversa- 
tions she  had  with  him,  or  was  present  at,  she  is  certain  that 
her  father  was  altogether  ignorant  of  the  authorship  of  the 
Junius'  Letters,  and  up  to  the  period  of  his  death  she  never 
recollects  any  suspicion  in  any  quarter  that  Sir  Philip  Francis 
was  the  writer  of,  or  concerned  in,  those  Letters.  Nor  did  she 
recollect  ever  having  seen  Sir  Philip  Francis  in  her  father's 
house,  but  she  thinks  that  she  generally  knew  that  Mr.  Francis 
was  a  public  man  known  to  her  father,  or  rather  that  she  may 
have  heard  her  father  mention  his  name.  She  had  heard  dis- 
cussions before  her  father  on  the  mystery  of  the  Junius'  author- 
ship, and  the  claims  of  divers  public  men  discussed  by  him  or 
by  others  in  his  company,  but  she  feels  confident  that  her  father 
had  no  preponderating  suspicion  of  the  real  author,  though  he 
may  at  different  times  have  considered  that  circusmtances  and 
evidence  pointed  strongly  or  weakly  to  this  public  or  literary 
man  or  the  other. 

Henry  Sampson's  elder  son,  her  brother,  died  22nd  December, 
1844,  aged  78.  She  had  a  second,  a  younger  brother,  Henry, 
Secretary  to  the  London  Assurance  Company.  He  was  an  in- 
telligent well-informed  man,  and  when  superannuated  received 
6001.  per  annum  from  his  company. 

She  thinks,  from  memory,  that  the  '  Public  Advertiser'  was 
given  up  after  a  fire  at  the  Ivy  Lane  Printing  Office,  and  that 
it  was  merged  in  another  journal  called  the  '  Oracle.' 


APPENDIX.  383 

In  fact,  she  expressed  her  opinion  that  the  different  members 
of  her  family  never  had  any  more  knowledge  of  the  mystery 
and  true  authorship  of  Junius  than  the  public,  and  no  materials 
of  discovery,  except  so  far  as  her  father's  possession  of  certain, 
of  the  MSS.  and  private  anonymous  correspondence  afforded  ; 
and  which  MSS.  descended  to  her  brother  George,  and  subse- 
quently to  her  now  living  nephew,  H.  D.  Woodfall. 

J.  PARKES. 


384  APPENDIX. 


No.  IV. 

THE  following  paper  of  Bemarks  on  Junius  is  printed 
from  one  contained  in  a  letter-book  of  Sir  Philip  Francis, 
written  in  his  best  clerical  hand,  and  indorsed,  *  Copied 
from  a  very  loose  incorrect  paper  of  Dr.  Francis,'  pro- 
bably written  in  the  year  1772.  Bound  up  with  it  is  a 
foul  draft  in  the  hand  of  Dr.  Francis  himself.  (See  p.  320.) 
It  is  plain  from  the  last  paragraphs  that  the  Doctor's 
suspicions  pointed  to  Edmund  Burke  as  the  author  of 
Junius ;  and  various  passages  in  his  son's  correspondence 
show  that  he  endeavoured  to  create  this  belief  in  the  minds 
of  his  acquaintances.  (See  p.  220,  243.)  The  earliest 
published  disavowal  by  Burke  is  contained  in  a  letter  to 
Charles  Townshend,  of  November  24, 1771  (Burkes  Cor- 
respondence) : — '  I  have,  I  dare  say,  to  nine-tenths  of  my 
acquaintance,  denied  my  being  the  author  of  Junius,  or 
having  any  knowledge  of  the  author,  as  often  as  the  thing 
was  mentioned,  whether  in  jest  or  earnest,  in  style  of  dis- 
approbation or  compliment.  ...  I  now  give  you  my 
word  and  honour  that  I  know  not  the  author  of  that 
paper,  and  I  authorise  you  to  say  so.' 

When  Mr.  Almon  published  the  Letters  of  Atticus,  Lucius, 
and  Junius,  collected  from  our  newspapers,  I  bought  them  with 
impatience,  and  read  them  with  all  that  admiration  which  they 
truly  deserve.  Yet,  although  I  am  perfectly  convinced  that  a 
liberal  intention  of  preserving  them  from  the  daily  mortality  of 
our  newspapers,  was  the  sole  motive  that  engaged  him  to  pub- 
lish them,  I  cannot  submit,  without  a  little  reluctance,  to  the 
critical  licentiousness  (pardon  a  little  honest  warmth)  with 
which  he  hath  presumed  to  correct  and  alter  the  sacred  text  of 


APPENDIX.  385 

these  papers,  which  he  hath  himself  now  consecrated  to  immor- 
tality. Let  no  man  imagine  that  I  dare  accuse  him  of  partiality 
in  the  choice  of  his  authors ;  but  is  it  not  an  indignity,  justly  to 
be  lamented,  to  the  glorious  cause  in  which  we  are  engaged, 
that  only  three  of  our  numerous,  indeed  almost  numberless, 
writers  are  sufficiently  animated  by  the  sacred  spirit  to  be  dis- 
tinguished from  the  common  herd  of  our  political  scribblers  ?  Is 
not  this  distinction  a  tacit  acknowledgment  that  all  the  rest, 
however  they  are  signatured  by  the  greatest  names  of  Greece 
and  Home,  are  only  a  parcel  of  miserable  men  of  genius,  or 
patriots  out  of  place,  who  wish  once  more  to  serve  their  country  ? 
Are  these  enough  to  transmit  to  the  future  sons  of  liberty,  the 
characters  of  their  sires,  the  great  examples  of  the  coming  ages, 
as  they  are  the  ornaments  of  the  present  year ; — the  guardians 
of  our  rights,  natural,  political,  and  religious,  the  friends  and 
patrons  of  human  kind,  the  asserters  of  the  Bill  of  Eights  ?  The 
strong  emotions  with  which  I  read  the  epistles  addressed  to  Mr. 
Printer,  by  an  Aristides,  a  Socrates,  a  Plato,  by  the  temperate 
spirit  of  an  Atticus,  or  the  fiercer  virtues  of  a  Brutus,  a  Cato, 
a  Julius,  or  a  Junius,  the  first  tribune  of  the  Eoman  people,  the 
first  popular  magistrate  and  patron  of  their  liberty.  (Sic.)  Me- 
thinks  the  ghosts  of  all  the  great  names  of  Plutarch's  '  Lives'  are 
rising  from  the  dead  to  form  our  expected  republic,  whether  it 
shall  be  a  democracy,  an  oligarchy,  or  a  military  execution.  I 
confess  I  have  long  expected  the  letter  of  a  Clement,  a  Eavaillac, 
a  Damiens,  a  Felton,  or  a  Shepherd,  to  complete  our  collection, 
and  surely  some  bold  hints  from  our  illustrious  writers  have 
encouraged  the  correspondence. 

When  I  first  read  the  letters  of  Atticus,  I  could  hardly  for- 
bear crying  out  with  old  Demea — '  Not  even  the  .Goddess  of 
Safety  herself,  if  she  took  it  into  her  head  to  make  the  experi- 
ment, could  preserve  this  nation.  But  when  I  laid  down  the 
book  and  looked  round  me  to  consider  the  real  state  of  facts,  I 
was  no  longer  terrified  by  this  laboured  description  of  our  ap- 
proaching dissolution.  There  is  a  genius  among  painters  that 
delights  in  subjects  of  horror — a  storm,  a  tempest,  a  shipwreck, 
dogs  pulling  down  a  stag,  a  lion  devouring  a  horse,  a  Prome- 
theus with  his  vulture,  a  St..  Lawrence  on  the  gridiron.  The 
very  fine  lines  with  which  Zanga  opens  the  '  Eevenge,'  are  they 
not  most  applicable  to  such,  writers  and  such  painters  ? — 
*  Whether  first  Nature,  &c.' 

VOL.  I.  C  C 


.386  APPENDIX. 

But  whatever  terrors  Atticus  had  impressed  upon  my  imagi- 
nation were  almost  totally  dissipated  by  the  letters  of  Lucius. 
The  liberty,  the  fate,  the  very  being  and  existence  of  the  nation 
now  depend  upon  the  dismission  of  Sir  Jeffery  Arnherst, 
although  it  survived  the  dismission  of  the  Duke  of  Marlborough 
even  amidst  his  victories.  But  the  Letters  of  Junius  restored 
my  perfect  peace  and  tranquillity  of  mind.  He  is  himself  my 
great  evidence  against  his  own  calamitous  state  of  the  nation. 
If  he  was  himself  convinced  of  our  nearly  approaching  ruin,  if 

he  were  bravely  determined -would  he  have  employed 

his  great  abilities,  which  he  had  dedicated  to  the  service  and 
preservation  of  his  country,  in  an  uninteresting  contest  with 
Sir  William  Draper?  Did  it  require  those  great  abilities  to 
charge,  and  not  indirectly  charge,  that  gentleman  with  perjury? 
Might  not  this  office  have  been  given  to  some  of  the  clerks  of 
the  press,  employed  by  the  proprietors  of  our  newspapers? 
They  would  have  urged  his  insinuations,  his  best  and  only 
proofs,  in  stronger  expressions,  though  probably  of  less  classical 
purity ;  with  less  art,  perhaps,  but  with  greater  force.  They 
would  have  directly  called  him  a  villain,  a  traitor  to  his  friend 
and  his  country. 

Would  he  have  wasted  his  precious  hours  in  an  unprofitable 
inquiry  into  the  avarice  and  personal  feelings  of  the  Duke  of 
Bedford's  heart?  How  is  the  public  interested  in  the  first  in- 
stance ?  Not  even  in  the  least  degree.  How  is  it  affected  by 
the  Duke  of  Bedford's  disposal  of  his  private  fortune  ?  Very 
inconsiderably.  Junius,  who  had  undertaken  of  his  own  mere 
motion  ne  quid  re^publica  detrimenti  capiat,  could  not  have 
suffered  his  attention  to  haye  been  diverted  from  that  one  great 
object,  if  indeed  he  thought  it  deserved  his  attention.  Or  did 
he  think  it  worthy  of  his  acknowledged  abilities,  as  the  Heberden 
of  the  State,  to  publish  a  cure  for  a  sore  finger  amidst  the 
raging  of  a  universal  plague,  or  even  like  ours,  an  epidemical 
disease  ?  No,  Junius  is  only  playing  his  well-imagined  terrors 
upon  us,  and  we,  like  children,  are  terrified  at  the  masque 
which  we  ourselves  have  seen  him  put  on.  I  could  here,  with 
pleasure  and  gratitude,  acknowledge  my  obligations  to  this 
writer  for  the  relieving  me  from  the  terrors  with  which  the 
letters  of  Atticus  had  alarmed  me.  But  I  am  persuaded  that 
Junius  and  Atticus,  yes  and  Lucius  too,  are  one  and  the  same 
ndividual  penman. 


APPENDIX.  387 

( Arduus  ad  solem,  et  linguis  micat  ore  trisulcis 
Cerberus  haec  ingens  latratu  regna  trifauci 
Personat  .... 

I  know  how  uncertain  are  our  best  critical  conjectures  when  we 
pronounce  upon  the  style  of  an  author. 

'  I  cannot  choose  but  smile 
When  every  coxcomb  knows  me  by  my  style.' 

So  says  Doctor  Swift,  as  justly  as  humorously.  Yet  so  strong 
is  the  resemblance  between  the  letters  of  these  three  writers, 
that  we  may  be  most  assured  they  have  only  one  original  author. 
It  is  the  same  portrait  drawn  in  different  attitudes,  and  to  be 
seen  in  different  lights.  The  same  correctness,  perspicuity,  and 
elegant  simplicity  of  language,  the  same  arrangement  of  ideas, 
and  form  of  composition,  the  same  rapidity  of  thinking,  the 
same  knowledge  of  men  and  characters ;  the  same  spirit  of 
patriotism,  or,  if  you  will,  of  opposition ;  the  same  sorrowful 
sighing  over  the  approaching  ruin  of  our  country ;  and  the  same 
honest  indignation  against  the  very  samepersons,  whom  they  would 
sacrifice  as  victims  to  public  vengeance,  as  the  sole  authors  of 
that  ruin,  do  indeed  eminently  distinguish  these  letters  from  all 
others  that  have  been  lately  addressed  to  the  printers  of  our 
newspapers.  Even  Junius,  therefore,  will  permit  me  to  con- 
clude that  there  are  not  three  writers  in  the  kingdom  who  can 
pretend  to  the  honour  of  having  written  these  letters.  Yet,  if 
there  were  any  crime  in  writing  them,  the  strong  evidence  of 
circumstances  would  in  a  court  of  judicature  convict  our  Junius 
of  being  their  author ;  for  circumstances,  as  the  civilian  assures 
us,  cannot  lie.  The  same  ardour  of  declamation, -the  same 
intrepid  spirit  of  asserting,  the  same  unblushing,  unembarrassed 
countenance  in  being  detected  in  a  falsehood,  the  same  subtlety 
of  disputing,  the  same  art  of  drawing  strong  conclusions  from 
weak  premises,  and  in  spite  of  the  logical  maxim  negativis  pro- 
positionibus  nihil  concluditur,  deducing  from  negative  facts  the 
most  forcible  reasoning  of  affirmation.  But  the  peculiar  felicity 
of  this  writer  seems  to  consist  in  compelling  the  person  whom 
he  accuses  to  condemn  himself.  '  Did  you,  or  did  you  not,  give 
your  word  of  honour  or  take  an  oath  upon  such  an  occasion  ? ' 
This  interrogatory  method  of  accusation  he  probably  learned  in 
his  first  religion  and  the  Christian  history  of  the  Inquisition,  as 
the  subtlety  of  his  arguments  from  his  first  masters,  the  Jesuits. 

c  c  2 


388  APPENDIX. 


NO.  V. 

THE  following  copy  of  verses  is  among  Dr.  Francis' 
papers,  preserved  by  his  son,  and  apparently  in  the 
Doctor's  handwriting.  Considering  the  familiarity  be- 
tween the  parties,  Mr.  Parkes  was  disposed  to  believe 
them  Lord  Holland's  own,  and  that  Dr.  Francis  had 
taken  a  copy.  I  have  not  myself  seen  them  in  print. 

L.  H. 

Keturning  from  Italy,  1767. 

Musis  milieus,  tristitiam  et  metus 
Tradam  protervis  in  mare  Creticum 
Portare  ventis. 

Thus  Holland  spoke,  as  from  the  summit  vast 
Of  Cenis,  eastward  his  fond  eyes  he  cast : 
Eegions  of  health,  adieu  !     To  you  I  owe 
Doctors  dismissed,  with  their  whole  train  of  woe. 
Eegions  of  health,  adieu !  you  knew  t'  assuage 
The  ills  of  sickness  and  increasing  age. 
When  shattered  nerves  that  worst  of  evils  brought, 
Spleen,  that  to  misery  swells  each  anxious  thought, 
Your  cloudless  sky  dispersed  it,  and  I  find, 
With  health  restored,  serenity  of  mind. 
White-livered  Grenville,  and  self-loving  Gower, 
Shall  never  cause  one  peevish  moment  more ; 
Not  that  their  spite  required  I  should  repair 
To  southern  climates,  and  a  milder  air ; 
Slight  was  the  pain  they  gave,  and  short  its  date ; 
I  found  I  could  not  both  despise  and  hate. 


APPENDIX.  389 

But,  Rigby,  what  did  I  for  thee  endure  ? 

Thy  serpent's  tooth  admitted  of  no  cure ; 

Lost  converse  never  thought  of  without  tears ! 

Lost  promised  hope  of  my  declining  years ! 

0  what  a  heavy  task  'tis  to  remove 

The  accustomed  ties  of  confidence  and  love  ! 

Friendship  in  anguish  turned  away  her  face, 

While  cunning  interest  sneered  at  her  disgrace. 

And  what  has  he,  mistaken  man,  attained 

For  broken  faith,  for  truth  and  honour  stained? 

Shelburne  and  Calcraft — Oh !  the  holy  band, 

See,  see,  with  Grower,  caballing  where  they  stand  1 

0  may  nor  time  nor  accident  divide 
This  knot,  by  mutual  love  of  virtue  tied. 

It  will  not  be  :  for  lo !  the  word  scarce  spoke, 
The  league  confirming,  but  the  league  was  broke. 
Soon  Shelburne's  falsehood  taught  thee  to  repent: 
Then,  Rigby,  why  didst  thou  not  then  relent  ? 
But  I  am  doomed  to  long  and  bitter  grief, 
Till  Time  and  Italy  have  brought  relief; 
Drawn  every  sting  of  memory  from  my  breast, 
And  soothed  each  passion  of  my  soul  to  rest. 
Nor  do  I  go  in  dread  of  a  return, 
Again  to  trust  false  friends,  again  to  mourn : 
But  fear  and  sorrow  to  the  western  breeze 
To  be  transported  to  yon  Cretan  seas, 

1  give ;  resolved  my  close  of  life  to  spend 
In  idle  cheerfulness,  the  Muses'  friend. 


APPENDIX. 


No.  VI. 

THE  following  paper  is  extracted  from  one  of  Francis's 
folio  vols.  of  MS.,  and  is  printed  as  a  singular  specimen  of 
his  peculiar  method  of  reporting. 

On  Feb.  2,  1770,  Lord  Chatham  spoke  twice :  once  on 
the  Marquis  of  Rockingham's  motion,  once  in  incidental 
discussion ;  on  the  question  of  privilege  of  Parliament. 
The  two  speeches  are  confusedly  jumbled  together  in  the 
'  Parliamentary  History.'  They  are  reported  separately 
in  the  '  Anecdotes  of  Chatham.'  But  the  editor  of  that 
work  describes  his  report  as  taken  from  the  British 
Museum,  vol.  i.  p.  190.  '  It  is  not  known,'  he  adds,  '  that 
any  other  account  of  this  debate  was  taken.' 

In  this  paper  we  have,  first,  Francis'  rough  notes  of 
Lord  Chatham's  second  speech,  as  taken,  no  doubt,  by 
himself  at  the  time ;  secondly,  the  same  materials  worked 
up  for  publication.  But  I  cannot  find  that  the  publication 
ever  took  place.  His  report  is  as  different  as  possible 
from  that  in  the  '  Anecdotes.' 

The  result,  I  fear,  is  not  very  favourable  to  the  probable; 
authenticity  of  the  speeches  which  pass  as  Lord  Chatham's. 

HOUSE  OF  LORDS,  Veneris,  2d  February,  1770. 

Motion  by  the  Marquis  of  Eockingham, 

Seconded  by  the  Earl  of  Coventry. 

Viscount  Weymouth  moved  that  the  Marquis  of  R.  should 
apprize  the  House  of  all  the  Motions  he  intended  to  make. 


APPENDIX.  391 

Earl  of  Chatham. 

Apology  to  Lord  Eockingham  for  stopping  him. 

surprised  that  so  many  hours  shd  have  been  spent  in  dis- 
puting about  a  Proposition  evident  from  every  page  of  the 
English  History, — viz.  that  each  of  the  three  Estates  had  a  right 
to  interpose,  if  either  of  the  others  exceeded,  &c. 

boldly  meets  and  contradicts  Ld  Egmont  upon  that  ground  ; 
there  he  wod  stand. 

'  that  he  wod  adhere  to  his  Lp's  principle  of  standing  supra 
vias  antiquas. — &  take  even  Bracton,  whom  Lord  Egmont  had 
quoted,  for  an  authority — 

that  honest,  tho'  prerogative  lawyer  had  said,  there  is  nothing 
above  the  K.  nisi  deum  et  legem,  quia  lex  facit  regem. 

did  not  think  the  particular  merits  of  the  MX.  election  were 
then  before  the  H°,  was  ready,  however,  whenever  the  question 
came. 

that  it  was  a  general  question  whether  the  Lords  might  inter- 
fere, &c. —  proved  that  each  house  had  mutually  done  it  in 
numberless  instances. 

that  his  health  wod  not  permit  him  to  read  much,  and  his 
memory  might  fail  him,  but  there  were  four  instances  of  which 
he  thought  he  might  give  them  the  substance. 

1.  a  Suit  before  the  H°  of  Lords,  in  which  a  Member  of  the 
other  house  was  a  party — privilege. 

2.  a  case  of  Skinner  and  the  E.  India  Company. 

3.  the  affirming  the  sentence  of  Titus  Gates,  the  yr  after  the 
Revolution. 

4.  the  case  of  the  Aylesbury  election — privilege. 

did  not  value  the  menaces  thrown  out  against  the  promoters 
of  petitions  nor  the  resentment  of  the  H°  of  Commons,  as  if  his 
Head  were  in  danger,  &c. 

the  case  of  this  Interposition,  tho'  not  ordinary  or  common, 
yet  strictly  within  the  system  of  the  Constitution.- — Allusion  to 
Eclipses  and  Comets — these  accounted  for,  by  the  best  lawyers 
in  Natural  Philosophy,  on  the  Principles  of  the  greater  System 
of  the  Universe. 

that  Ld  Egmont  had  not  only  endeavoured  to  stop  the  ques- 
tion that  day,  but  wod  prevent  its  coming  back — had  set  his 
foot  upon  the  neck  of  it ;  and  shall  it  not  turn  again  ? — if  he 
lived  it  shd  return  every  day  till  the  people  had  satisfaction ; 
did  not  doubt  of  being  backed  by  the  whole  people  of  England — - 


392  APPENDIX. 

hoped  they  \vod  use  every  means  constitutionally — come  to  that 
H°,  to  the  Throne,  &c. 

excuses  his  warmth — bodily  pain  might  contribute — compli- 
ments Lord  Egmont — 20  &  30  jn  in  Parliament. 

Loved  the  entire  Freedom  of  Debates,  but  took  notice  of  Lord 
Sandwich's  speaking  of  resentments — by  what  means  had  Lord 
Camden  been  dismissed. 

did  not  know  who  was  the  Minister,  but  shd  address  that 
noble  person  (the  D.  of  Grafton)  who  .certainly  might  have  been 
Minister. 

that  when  they  talked  of  fomenting  disagreements  among  the 
people,  they  shd  recollect  what  was  the  original  cause,  was  it 
not  that  unhappy  measure  of  making  an  officer  of  the  Army 
vacate  his  seat,  &c.  to  set  up  for  a  County  where  he  was  sure  of 
having  a  great  majority  against  him. 

that  he  hoped  he  shd  sleep  one  night  more  with  his  head  on 
his  shoulders;  (in  scorn) 

the  ancient  Barons  obtained  Magna  Charta  for  the  people, — 
if  more  of  the  Lords  had  taken  part  with  the  Long  Parl* — 
if  there  had  been  more  Essex's  &  Bedford's,  another  M*  C* 
might  have  been  obtd  without  bloodshed.  ^ — that  Lord  Shafts- 
bury  &  5  other  Lords  were  sent  to  the  Tower  by  Charles  the  2d. 
but  it  had  a  good  effect. 

A&  the  descendants  of  that  unhappy  prince  might  now  be 
on  the  Throne. 

that  saying  there  was  no  remedy,  that  it  all  lay  between  God 
&  their  own  consciences  was  in  effect  exhorting  the  people  to 
make  an  appeal,  &c.  to  Heaven. 

the  Persecution  of  that  poor  unhappy  man. 

shall  not  we,  who  are  cousins  to  the  King,  who  are  permitted 
to  kiss  the  royal  cheek,  &c. 


Earl  of  Chatham. 

Lord  Rockingham, — I  ask  pardon  of  the  noble  Lord,  who  I 
see  intended  to  speak.  The  condition  I  am  in  may  not  permit 
me  to  sit  out  the  debate,  and  I  should  be  sorry  to  lose  this  op- 
portunity of  delivering  my  opinion  to  the  House. 

My  Lords,  I  have  no  words  to  express  my  astonishment  to  see 
that  your  Lp's  can  have  spent  so  many  hours  in  debating  upon 


APPENDIX.  393 

a  proposition,  which,  to  my  understanding,  is  the  plainest,  the 
nearest  to  self-evident,  that  ever  came  before  this  House.  I  did 
not  think  it  possible  that  any  member  of  this  House  should 
deny,  or  that  your  Lordships  shd  suffer  it  to  be  disputed,  that 
the  H°  of  Lords  have  a  right  to  interpose,  whenever  the  Consti- 
tution is  invaded,  whenever  the  Laws  are  violated  by  either  of 
the  other  branches  of  the  Legislature.  Have  you  read  a  single 
page  of  the  English  history  ? — You  are  undoubtedly  masters  of 
every  page  of  it ;  and  is  it  possible  for  any  man  who  is  at  all 
acquainted  with  that  history,  to  forget  the  generous  spirit  with 
which  your  ancestors  constantly  came  forward  and  placed 
themselves  in  the  breach,  whenever  the  liberty  of  the  subject  or 
the  rights  of  the  Constitution  were  attacked  ?  They  justly  and 
truly  considered  themselves  as  the  Guardians  of  the  Laws,  & 
from  whatever  quarter  the  violation  of  those  Laws  was  attempted, 
whether  a  mistaken  prince  exceeded  the  Limits  of  his  Prero- 
gative, or  whether  a  seditious  or  a  corrupt  House  of  Commons 
attempted  to  stretch  their  power  beyond  the  line  drawn  by  the 
Constitution,  Your  Ancestors,  my  Lds.,  thought  it  equally  their 
duty  to  interpose  &  defend  the  people  &  that  not  more  against 
the  ambition  of  one  man,  than  against  the  usurpation  of  a 
multitude. 

My  Lords,  I  speak  from  Facts  upon  which  I  shall  challenge 
the  noble  Lord  to  contradict  me.  I  do  not  pretend  to  be  deeply 
read,  but  here  I  know  my  ground  &  will  speak  firmly.  It  is 
not  only  true  that  the  Ho.  of  Ls  have  interposed  when  either  of 
the  other  Estates  have  exceeded  their  due  limits,  but  I  under- 
take to  prove  that  the  other  House  have  acted  upon  the  same 
principle,  that  they  have  interfered  in  their  turn,  &  checked  this 
H°  whenever  they  thought  we  were  transgressing  the  bounds 
prescribed  to  us  by  the  Constitution.  Both  Houses  have,  in  a 
multitude  of  instances,  reciprocally  interfered  with  each  other, 
in  the  very  rights  and  powers  which  we  all  acknowledge  are 
appropriated  to  each  H°  of  Parl*  whenever  one  H°  saw  the  other 
attempting  to  alter  the  nature  or  to  extend  the  effect  of  those 
Eights  &  powers  beyond  their  Constitutional  boundaries,  or  to 
apply  them  to  purposes  for  which  they  were  not  intended  by  the 
spirit  of  the  Constitution.  There  is  no  point  of  Privilege,  of 
Jurisdiction,  of  Inquest,  or  of  Council  in  which  this  reciprocal 
right  of  interference  has  not  been  claimed  and  exercised  by  both 
Houses  of  Parl*. 


394  APPENDIX. 


NO.  VII. 

THIS  letter  (from  Philip  Francis  to.  Mr.  Calcraft)  has  been 
preserved  in  the  form  of  a  copy  among  Mr.  Francis' 
papers.  It  appears  to  be  that  mentioned  in  the  Autobio- 
graphical Fragment.  (See  p.  364.)  From  the  formal 
style  of  composition  (considering  the  intimate  relation 
between  the  two),  it  is  presumable  that  it  was  intended  to 
be  shown  to  some  third  party — probably  Lord  Chatham. 

London,  1st  December,  1770. 
Dear  Sir, 

As  I  do  not  know  by  what  particular  Motion  You 
mean  to  begin  your  Inquiry  into  the  Administration  of  Justice 
in  the  Courts  of  Westminster  Hall,  nor  whether  any  particular 
Plan  of  Measures  be  fixed  upon,  my  Opinion  must  go  to  the 
general  Question,  whether  such  an  Inquiry,  in  the  present  cir- 
cumstances, would  be  expedient  or  not.  Supposing  the  Ex- 
pediency established,  the  second  question  is,  by  what  Steps  the 
Inquiry  ought  to  be  conducted.  You  will  not,  I  believe,  suspect 
me  of  wishing  to  spare  Lord  Mansfield.  But  while  a  measure 
is  in  Debate,  I  would  speak  freely  of  either  Side.  The  Moment 
it  is  determined,  I  would  support  it  with  Ardour. 

I  take  for  granted,  You  are  not  sanguine  enough  to  expect 
that,  with  the  present  Parliament,  You  will  be  able  to  punish 
Lord  Mansfield,  or  even  to  reform  the  most  trifling  Abuse. 
With  such  a  Parliament,  I  am  persuaded  You  will  place  but 
little  Dependance  on  the  Goodness  of  Your  Cause :  Or  supposing 
You  had  an  Expectation  of  Success,  You  would  not  cdrry  it  so 
far,  as  to  aim  at  reforming  every  Thing  at  once.  Your  only 
rational  View,  as  I  conceive,  must  be,  to  intimidate  the  capital 
Offender  by  the  Terror  of  a  parliamentary  Inquiry,  and  to  check 
and  discourage  some  of  those  Proceedings  in  the  Courts,  which 
are  most  distinguished  by  their  enormity;  (and,  among  these 


APPENDIX.  395 

we  all  reckon  Lord  Mansfield's  Doctrine  about  Libels,)  or,  if 
this  fails,  at  least  to  shew  the  Nation  that  You  are  alert  in  the 
public  Service,  and,  let  the  Event  be  what  it  may,  that  You  are 
determined  to  do  your  Duty. 

Now,  Sir,  if  you  admit  that  whatever  Question  You  propose 
upon  these  Points  will  be  carried  against  You  by  a  great  Ma- 
jority, I  think  it  follows,  first,  that  you  relieve  Lord  Mansfield 
from  a  State  of  Anxiety  and  Suspence.  I  am  convinced  that 
he  is  now  under  the  Influence  of  Terror,  and,  while  that  lasts, 
he  will  act  with  Circumspection  and  Eeserve.  Let  the  Cloud 
hang  over  his  Head,  but  not  burst,  until  it  has  collected  Weight 
enough  to  destroy  him.  The  idea  of  attacking  him  should  be 
maintained  as  much  as  possible  both  in  Discourse  abroad,  and 
by  every  kind  of  indirect  Side-Stroke  in  Parliament.  Whether 
or  no  this  be  the  Time  for  making  the  grand  formal  Attack,  is 
to  me  a  very  nice  and  disputable  Question.  When  I  speak  of 
his  Fears,  I  do  not  refer  to  any  real  Danger  he  would  be  in 
from  a  present  parliamentary  Inquiry.  I  argue  from  the  Cha- 
racter of  the  Man,  his  general  Dread  of  public  odium,  and  the 
Quickness  of  his  Sensations,  which  anticipate  Danger,  and  even 
now  perhaps  make  him  look  forward  to  a  distant  Day  of 
Punishment. 

With  regard  to  checking  the  proceedings  of  the  Courts  of 
Westminster  Hall,  I  must  intreat  You  to  consider  that,  in  the 
case  of  Libels,  (where  the  Province  of  Juries  has  been  most 
signally  invaded)  every  attempt  hitherto  made  to  infringe  the 
Liberty  of  the  Press  has  ended  in  Disgrace  and  Ridicule  both 
to  Government  and  to  the  Court  of  King's  Bench.  The  press, 
in  spite  of  all  their  prosecutions,  is  actually  as  free  as  it  need 
be  for  any  good  Purpose.  Take  care  how  you  raise  a  dangerous 
Question  about  it,  when  perhaps  it  is  the  very  best,  if  not  the 
only  Weapon,  You  have  left  to  defend  the  Constitution.  Now 
let  us  suppose  that  a  Motion  were  made  in  Parliament  for  con- 
demning, by  a  Declaration  of  both  Houses,  the  most  odious  and 
least  defensible  Part  of  Lord  Mansfield's  Doctrines.  Do  You 
expect  to  carry  it? — If  not,  what  is  the  Consequence?  You 
encourage  a  timid  Man  (who  seems  now  willing  enough  to  be 
passive,  and  I  dare  say  would  be  glad  never  to  meddle  with  Libels 
again),  to  be  active  in  doing  Mischief ; — You  back  him  with  an 
Assurance  of  parliamentary  Support.  You  bring  a  disputed 
Point  to  a  Decision,  which  You  know  will  be  against  You ;  and 


396  APPENDIX. 

You  confirm  his  Doctrines  by  an  Authority,  which,  though  not 
respectable  in  the  Eyes  of  the  Nation,  will  always  be  an  en- 
couragement to  corrupt  Judges  to  go  greater  Lengths,  than  they 
would  venture  to  go  without  it. 

You  will  say  perhaps  that  Juries  may  still  resist.  I  beg 
Leave  to  ask  You  have  they  resisted  ?  or  is  it  likely  that  they 
will  have  firmness  enough  to  assert  against  Ld.  Mansfield  and 
both  Houses  of  Parliament  those  Rights  which  they  have  in 
Effect  surrendered  to  Ld.  Mansfield  alone  ?  The  Disgrace  of 
Government  in  the  late  Prosecutions  did  not  arise  from  the 
Firmness,  but  from  the  Absurdity  of  Juries.  Or  it  may  be 
urged  that  all  this  may  be  undone  hereafter.  If  that  be  all, 
why  not  leave  undone  at  present — why  expose  yourselves  to 
a  present,  certain  Inconvenience,  upon  the  Hope  of  a  future 
uncertain  Reparation  ;  especially  as  (let  what  will  happen  here- 
after) You  do  an  immediate  Injury  to  the  Press,  and  lose  the 
use  of  it  when  you  want  it  most. 

With  Respect  to  your  Reputation  with  the  Public,  and  that 
strict  Execution  of  Duty  which  proceeds  to  its  Object  without 
regarding  Consequences,  I  say  that  you  will  eventually  lose 
Reputation  instead  of  gaining  it.  Wise  Men  will  condemn  you 
for  not  foreseeing  Consequences  so  plain  as  these  are ;  and  the 
Vulgar,  who  judge  merely  by  Events  will  not  give  you  Credit 
even  for  the  Rectitude  of  your  Intentions.  Upon  the  whole 
then  I  most  earnestly  protest  against  your  bringing  into  Par- 
liament any  Motion  to  this  Effect  viz.  '  That  the  Doctrine 
delivered  by  Lord  Mansfield  in  Prosecutions  for  Libels  is  con- 
trary to  Law,  an  Invasion  of  the  Rights  of  Juries,  &c.' 

If,  however,  You  are  determined  at  all  Events  to  bring  this 
Question  forward,  I  must  make  the  Presence,  and  hearty  Con- 
currence of  Lord  Camden  a  Condition,  sine  qua  non.  Besides 
the  double  Terror  upon  Lord  Mansfield,  there  is  a  Quirk  and 
Subtlety  in  legal  Arguments,  which  Lawyers  are  best  qualified 
to  unravel.  It  is  not  that  I  question  the  ability  of  that  great 
Man,  whom  I  admire,  and  revere  as  much  as  you  do ;  but  I 
think  that  when  this  Wretch  is  attacked  on  one  side  upon  great 
Constitutional  Principles,  he  should  be  cut  off,  on  the  other, 
from  his  usual  Retreat  to  the  Labyrinths  of  his  Profession. 

Whether  the  Execution  of  this  part  of  your  Plan  be  deferred 
for  the  present,  or  immediately  pursued,  I  think  You  have  other 
materials  in  Abundance.  Ld.  Mansfield  is  sufficiently  vulner- 


APPENDIX.  397 

able,  without  running  the  Risque  of  doing  a  capital  Injury  to 
the  Common  Cause.  You  cannot,  in  my  Opinion,  wish  for 
firmer,  nor  safer  Ground,  than  his  keeping  the  Seals  so  long  in 
Commission.  At  a  Time  such  as  this,  when  it  may  be  necessary 
to  put  the  Great  Seal  to  Instruments  of  the  most  extensive 
National  Importance,  who  is  to  be  answerable  for  the  Applica- 
tion of  it  ?  The  Season  calls  loudly  for  a  Man  of  Weight,  and 
Authority,  not  only  upon  the  Bench,  but  in  Council — not  only 
•to  hear  Causes,  but  to  judge  of  the  Expedience,  and  Legality  of 
those  Acts,  which,  to  be  completely  executed,  require  the 
Sanction  and  Ratification  of  the  Seal  of  the  Kingdom.  This 
Consideration,  important  as  it  is,  bears  no  Comparison  with 
what  follows.  The  Laws  of  this  Country,  founded  upon  Reason, 
and  corrected  by  Experience,  require  that  the  Persons,  to  whom 
the  Administration  of  Justice  is  committed,  should  be  free  from 
all  Biass,  and  Controul.  His  present  Majesty  thought  he  could 
not  gratify  his  People  more  than  by  relieving  the  Judges  from 
the  only  Tie,  by  which  they  seemed  to  depend  upon  the  Pleasure 
of  the  Crown.  In  the  present  Instance  both  the  Spirit  of  the 
Laws,  and  the  King's  gracious  Intentions  are  equally  counter- 
acted. We  see  the  Income,  which  belongs  to  the  Great  Seal, 
divided  (and  not  for  a  short  Period)  between  four  of  the  twelve 
Judges.  The  Chief  Justice  is  bribed  with  four  or  five  Thousand 
a  year — the  other  three  with  two  Thousand  five  Hundred  a 
piece.  To  say  Nothing  of  the  Distress,  which  the  other  Courts 
are  exposed  to  by  the  Absence  of  three  of  their  Judges,  is  it 
possible  that  the  Administration  of  Justice  should  be  free,  and 
independant,  while  one  third  of  your  judicial  Power  receives 
such  extraordinary  Emoluments  at  the  Pleasure  of  Government, 
and  the  other  two  thirds  stand  waiting  with  anxious  Expectation, 
'till  it  comes  to  their  Turn  to  participate  in  the  Royal  Bounty. 
The  argument  is,  I  think,  solid  and  unanswerable.  It  is  capable 
of  Ornament,  and  Illustration,  but  it  wants  none. 

Ld.  Mansfield's  meanness  in  threatening  one  Day  to  resign, 
without  regarding  the  Distress  and  Perplexity  of  Government, 
and  yet  continuing  still  upon  the  Wool-pack,  may  be  the 
Subject  of  much  good  Discourse ;  and,  altho'  in  debating  these 
great  Points,  I  wish  to  avoid  any  formal  Question  upon  the 
Rights  of  Juries,  on  the  Liberty  of  the  Press  ;  your  great  Friend 
might  with  Force  and  Propriety  declare,  that  if  he  avoided  any 
direct  Question  upon  these  matters  at  present,  it  was  not  from 


398  APPENDIX. 

Inadvertence,  or  Disregard :  but  that  he  waited  for  a  Time, 
perhaps  not  far  distant,  which  might  be  more  favourable  to  the 
true  Construction  of  the  Laws,  and  to  the  Constitutional  Liberty 
of  the  Subject. 

And  now,  my  dear  Sir,  I  must  intreat  you  to  accept  of  the  sub- 
stance of  these  Thoughts,  if  there  be  any  Thing  in  them,  without 
regarding  their  dress.  Tho'  hastily  expressed,  they  have  not 
been  lightly  considered.  You  cannot  wonder,  more  than  I  do 
myself,  at  my  presuming  to  give  Advice  upon  Matters  so  much 
above  Me. 

But  it  is  done.  I  have  a  large  portion  of  Zeal  to  compensate 
for  the  Want  of  Ability ;  and  Faith  enough  in  one  great  Man 
to  make  any  good  Works  of  my  own  unnecessary. 


APPENDIX. 


NO.  VIII. 
From  one  of  Francis's  folio  MS.  volumes  Date  1772.  (See  p.  3 1 5. ) 

HINTS  to  a  traveller.     My  son  perhaps  may  profit  by  them. 

The  great  characteristics  of  an  Italian,  as  far  as  I  could 
observe,  are  fraud  and  patience.  Provided  they  can  cheat  you, 
they  bear  the  most  virulent  abuse  with  astonishing  sang 
froid. 

,  In  all  Italy  I  met  with  but  one  man  who  did  not  cheat  us 
enormously :  that  was  Emanuel,  at  whose  house  we  lodged  at 
Naples.  Of  him  we  really  had  no  reason  to  complain. 

I  never  saw  so  ignorant  a  people,  considering  the  reputation 
of  the  country.  There  is  nothing  ingenious  or  polite  in  their 
method  of  cheating :  a  barefaced,  bungling  impudence. 

I  am  very  much  inclined  to  think  that,  compared  with  Eng- 
land or  France,  there  is  no  learning  in  Italy.  It  would  surprise 
an  Englishman  to  see  how  an  Italian  bookseller's  shop  is  filled : 
a  history  of  the  Church,  lives  of  the  saints  and  martyrs,  eccle- 
siastical canons,  and  books  of  devotion  make  up  the  comple- 
ment. I  believe  that  what  the  English  and  French  call  a 
gentleman  and  a  man  of  honour  is  a  character  unknown  in 
Italy. 

Ladies  of  pleasure  by  profession  are  few,  because  the  whole 
sex  is  corrupted.  In  England  we  sacrifice  a  part  to  save  the 
rest.  If  the  time  should  ever  come  when  there  shall  be  few  or 
no  prostitutes  in  London  streets,  depend  upon  it  it  will  be  a 
sign  of  a  general  corruption  of  woman,  and  a  prelude  to  the 
decay  of  the  empire.  Where  there  is  no  female  virtue,  there 
will  soon  be  no  male  virtue  left.  Where  there  are  few  or  no 
prostitutes,  there  can  be  no  modest  women.  They  should  be 
subject  to  a  police  for  the  sake  of  decency,  but  not  punished 
merely  for  their  profession.  The  one  way  to  lessen  the  number 
of  them  is  to  lessen  the  necessity  of  having  them :  that  is,  by 


400  APPENDIX. 

encouraging  marriage  among  young  people,  and  removing  every 
obstacle  to  it. 

In  every  country  in  the  world,  idleness  is  the  root  of  all  evil. 
In  Italy,  religion  is  the  root  of  idleness. 

We  English,  before  we  see  Italy,  are  apt  to  think  that  we  can 
purchase  the  best  works  of  the  great  masters,  and  that  many  of 
them  have  been  actually  brought  away  within  these  few  years. 
There  cannot  be  a  grosser  mistake.  The  Italians  are  too 
cunning  to  suffer  the  market  to  be  removed  out  of  Italy.  As 
for  parting  with  a  valuable  antique  statue,  they  would  sooner 
give  up  their  seven  sacraments.  The  Pope  could  make  his 
people  Protestants  much  more  easily  than  persuade  them  to  let 
the  Apollo  go  out  of  Rome. 

To  a  man  really  curious  in  the  polite  arts,  Rome  alone  must  be 
an  inexhaustible  fund  of  entertainment ;  but  what  can  be  more 
disgustful  than  to  see  our  young  people  give  themselves  the 
airs  of  conoscenti  ?  The  best  pieces  we  have  in  England  are,  I 
believe,  only  copies.  The  cartoons,  indeed,  are  unique. 

I  cannot  conceive  why,  in  Italy,  any  man  should  marry.  It 
cannot  be  love :  a  lover  could  not  bear  the  idea  of  being  an 
Italian  husband.  Money,  except  among  a  few  great  families, 
there  is  none ;  and  as  for  heirs  to  their  estates,  I  shall  only  say 
that  an  Italian  child  who  knows  his  father  must  be  much  wiser 
than  his  mother. 

I  had  the  following  story  from  good  authority  at  Lucca.  A 
nobleman  of  that  city,  who  had  purchased  his  nobility,  lately 
married  a  young  lady  there  of  much  better  family  than  his  own, 
but  not  worth  a  ducat.  The  day  after  their  marriage  she 
appointed  a  young  man  who,  it  seems,  had  been  her  admirer,  to 
be  her  cavalier  sewente,  and  he  immediately  entered  upon  his 
office.  The  husband,  however,  had  some  personal  objection  to 
him,  and  took  the  liberty  of  mentioning  it  to  his  lady,  intreating 
her,  as  a  particular  favour,  to  appoint  any  other  gentleman  in 
Lucca  that  she  thought  proper.  The  lady  considered  her  hus- 
band's request  as  an  invasion  of  her  privileges,  and  treated  it 
with  disdain.  He  still  continued  his  solicitations,  but  to  no 
purpose.  At  last  he  took  an  opportunity  at  dinner,  in  presence 
of  several  of  her  relations,  to  state  to  them  the  hardship  of  his 
case.  The  moment  it  was  mentioned,  the  lady  rose  from  the 
table  in  a  fury,  and  asked  him  whether  he  was  so  impertinent 
as  to  think  that  Signer  such-a-one  was  not  good  enough  to  be 


APPENDIX.  401 

cicisbeo  to  his  wife.  '  Surely,'  says  she,  '  he  is  your  equal,  and 
something  more  :  but  this  it  is  to  have  to  do  with  tradesmen.' 

O  7 

Appeal  upon  this  was  made  to  the  young  lady's  mother,  who,  to 
the  astonishment  of  all  Lucca,  gave  it  against  her  daughter,  and 
obliged  her  to  accept  a  cicisbeo  of  her  husband's  choosing.  Had 
she  decided  otherwise,  the  lady's  male  relations  would  soon  have 
reduced  the  poor  devil  of  a  husband  to  a  proper  sense  of  his 
duty. 

•  Much  to  my  surprise,  I  hear  little  or  no  music ;  there  is  ten 
times  more  in  London  all  the  year  round  than  in  any  city  in 
Italy;  except,  perhaps,  during  the  Carnival.  Neither  do  the 
Italians  appear  to  me  to  be  half  so  fond  of  rmisic  as  the  English, 
though  I  believe  they  understand  it  better.  They  have  no  such 
thing  as  ballad-singing ;  no  church  music,  except  upon  a  few 
particular  days ;  nor  an  opera  but  at  particular  seasons,  and 
then  they  never  listen  to  it.  I  fancy  we  import  all  the  music 
from  Italy,  as  we  do  all  the  claret  from  France.  These  commo- 
dities are  not  to  be  found  upon  the  spot  where  they  grow,  but 
among  the  people  who  can  purchase  them.  I  say  this  upon  my 
own  experience  only,  which  I  admit  is  not  very  great. 

A  man  who  would  carry  twenty  guineas'  worth  of  English 
toys  with  him  would  have  an  opportunity  of  obliging  many 
people,  particularly  women,  at  a  small  expense.  Pocket-books, 
buckles,  pen-knives,  scissors,  smelling-bottles,  etc.,  are  received 
with  rapture.  Everything  of  this  kind  that  they  make  them- 
selves is  so  clumsy  that  it  is  no  wonder  they  should  be  struck 
with  the  elegance  of  English  workmanship.  A  Venetian  noble- 
man, while  I  was  at  Venice,  sent  to  beg  I  would  lend  him  one 
of  my  buckles,  that  he  might  have  a  pair  made  of  it.  I  lent 
him  the  buckle,  but  at  the  same  time  gave  him  to  understand 
that  there  was  not  skill  enough  in  Venice  to  match  them  ;  and 
so  it  appeared. 

M.  Baretti  is  the  most  impudent  of  all  liars.  The  English,  I 
confess,  have  contributed  to  corrupt  the  morals  of  the  Italians. 
Besides  our  disregard  of  money,  we  are  too  honest  and  too 
generous  a  people  to  deal  upon  equal  terms  with  such  dirty 
knaves. 

In  general  the  women  have  bad  features  and  worse  com- 
plexions ;  particularly  the  Neapolitans,  who,  I  think,  are  the 
most  unhealthy-looking  people  I  ever  saw.  Yet  I  do  not  deny 
that  there  is  beauty  in  Italy.  The  women  rub  their  faces  and 

VOL.  T.  D  D 


402  APPENDIX. 

necks  with  powder,  and  leave  it  on.  This,  I  fancy,  besides 
looking  nasty,  spoils  the  skin. 

I  believe  upon  the  whole  that  it  is  a  disadvantage  to  the 
country  that  they  have  so  many  curiosities  to  show  to  strangers. 
It  is  inconceivable  how  many  people  are  diverted  by  this  idle 
occupation  from  labouring  to  get  their  bread.  Every  black- 
guard is  a  cicerone. 

The  collection  at  Wilton  is  too  trifling  even  to  be  mentioned 
among  the  Italians. 

I  cannot  help  thinking  that  some  of  the  capital  ancient 
statues  stand  in  very  awkward  attitudes.  Let  any  man  try  to 
put  himself  in  the  posture  of  the  Gladiator,  and  he  will  find 
himself  hardly  able  to  stand,  much  less  to  fight.  The  Hercules 
at  Florence  is  evidently  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  Centaur ;  in 
consequence  of  his  position  he  must  strike  across  his  own  left 
arm.  Even  the  Apollo,  great  arid  powerful  as  he  is,  ought  in 
my  opinion  to  rest  upon  his  left  leg,  especially  if  we  suppose 
him  in  the  act  of  shooting  an  arrow. 

It  is  evidently  against  the  interests,  and  of  course  against  the 
principles,  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  to  encourage  polite 
learning,  or  any  enquiries  after  truth. 

Ladies  of  a  certain  rank  don't  dip  their  fingers  into  the  holy 
water  in  going  into  church,  as  others  do,  but  send  a  servant 
before,  who  dips  his  fist  into  the  basin,  and  then  touches  their 
fingers  with  it. 


APPENDIX.  403 


No.  IX. 

Letter  from  Francis  to  Mr.  Ribouville  on  the  Education 
of  his  Son.     (See  p.  351.) 

17th  February  1774. 

DEAR  SIR, 

I  cannot  give  you  a  better  proof  of  my  esteem  for  you, 
nor  of  my  opinion  of  your  abilities,  than  by  intrusting  you  with 
the  care  of  my  son's  education.  Yet  these  are  not  the  only  motives 
which  induce  me  to  take  this  important  step.  Besides  that,  in 
general,  I  prefer  a  domestic  education  for  a  child  of  his  age  to  any 
other,  and  that  I  really  think  you  qualified  for  the  employment, 
I  persuade  myself  that,  in  conducting  it,  you  will  conform,  as 
much  as  possible,  to  the  plan  which  I  shall  take  the  liberty  to  lay 
down  to  you.  The  master  of  a  great  school  has  not  leisure  to 
distinguish  between  the  different  genius  and  disposition  of  his 
scholars,  much  less  to  give  that  patient  care  and  attention  to 
very  little  children  which  their  age  and  infirmity  require.  He 
must  of  necessity  apply  the  same  system  of  discipline  and 
instruction  to  all  his  pupils. 

In  what  I  am  going  to  say,  concerning  the  education  of  my 
son,  I  am  far  from  presuming  to  prescribe  rules  to  others.  My 
ideas  on  this  subject  are  not  taken  up  without  a  good  deal  of 
attentive  observation  and  reflection ;  and  if  I  should  be  unfor- 
tunate enough  to  make  any  considerable  mistake  in  this  matter, 
I  assure  you  it  will  not  be  owing  to  a  criminal  neglect  of  my 
duty,  but  really  to  a  defect  of  judgment. 

The  object  which  I  have  in  view  is  to  make  my  son  an  English 
gentleman,  to  which  he  is  entitled  by  his  birth  and  situation  in 
life.  But  before  I  explain  to  you  what  I  mean  by  the  title  of 
English  gentleman,  or  by  what  system  of  education  he  may  be 
qualified  to  hold  that  rank  with  honour,  it  is  proper  you  should 
know  what  kind  of  ground  and  materials  you  have  to  work 
upon.  The  boy's  temper,  I  think,  is  naturally  mild,  timid, 


404  APPENDIX. 

serious.,  and  compassionate.  He  is,  at  the  same  time,  as  lively  as 
healthy  children  usually  are,  uncommonly  attentive,  and  quick 
of  perception.  If  this  be  his  disposition  it  must  be  confessed 
that  nature  has  done  her  part ;  and  it  follows  that  all  the  im- 
provements which  art  can  bestow  on  such  a  subject,  may  be  ob- 
tained by  gentle  methods.  I  am  convinced  that  his  mind  may  be 
moulded  into  any  form,  by  the  mere  influence  and  persuasion 
of  generous,  pathetic,  or  rational  motives  ;  and  since  it  is  my 
purpose  to  make  him  a  gentleman,  which  includes  the  idea  of 
liberal  character  and  sentiments,  I  cannot  think  it  consistent 
with  that  purpose,  to  have  him  brought  under  the  servile  dis- 
cipline of  the  rod. 

The  idea  of  a  gentleman  in  England  includes  not  only  the 
qualifications  usually  annexed  to  that  character  in  other  coun- 
tries, but  a  high  and  spirited  way  of  thinking,  arising  from  a 
sense  of  the  security  and  independence  of  his  condition.  The 
more  highly  he  is  taught  to  conceive  of  his  own  personal  con- 
sequence and  dignity,  the  less  likely  he  will  be  to  commit  mean 
and  sordid  actions.  But  as  I  should  rejoice  to  see  him  proud 
of  real  advantages,  and  determined  to  preserve  and  improve 
them,  it  would  equally  afflict  me  to  see  him  vain  of  trifles. 
For  •example,  I  should  be  pleased  to  hear  him  call  himself  a 
freeborn  Englishman,  even  before  he  knows  the  meaning  of  the 
words ;  but  I  should  be  sorry  to  see  him  looking  in  the  glass 
to  admire  the  cock  of  his  hat.  I  do  not  expect  that  personal 
vanity  can  be  entirely  eradicated  out  of  the  human  constitu- 
tion ;  but  let  us  do  everything  we  can  to  correct  it.  I  would  have 
the  boy  taught  to  value  himself  upon  possessing  more  courage, 
strength,  hardiness,  and  learning,  but  not  upon  being  better 
dressed  than  his  companions.  I  would  have  no  opportunity 
lost  to  inculcate  upon  his  mind  the  love  of  his  country,  an 
abhorrence  of  tyranny,  and  obedience  to  the  laws.  I  would 
have  him  think  it  an  honour  to  be  an  Englishman,  but  such  an 
honour  as  imposes  many  important  duties  upon  him.  As  to  the 
time  and  manner  of  inspiring  him  with  these  sentiments,  you 
will  be  directed  by  the  gradual  improvement  of  his  under- 
standing. 

With  respect  to  discipline,  I  absolutely  forbid  the  use  of 
blows.  It  is  the  office  of  the  magistrate  to  inflict  corporal  punish- 
ment, in  order  to  deter  others.  The  preceptor's  duty  is  to 
prepare  and  cultivate  the  mind  of  his  pupil  in  such  a  manner 


APPENDIX.  405 

that,  in  his  future  life,  he  may  not  only  avoid  those  crimes 
which  the  law  punishes,  but  also  those  vices  which  the  law 
cannot  reach.  In  our  public  schools,  the  offices  of  magistrate 
and  preceptor  are  perpetually  confounded.  There  are  a  thou- 
sand better  ways  of  restraining  and  correcting  a  child  who  has 
not  a  grain  of  sulkiness  or  stubbornness  in  his  temper.  Such,  for 
instance,  as  confinement,  neglect,  fasting,  being  kept  from  play, 
&c.,  besides  the  multitude  of  resources  with  which  the  noble  sense 
of  shame  furnishes  a  prudent  tutor.  Even  this  sense  of  shame 
is  to  be  applied  to  with  great  caution,  and  not  tried  but  upon 
urgent  occasions.  It  is  of  a  delicate  nature,  and  the  danger 
is,  that  too  much  exercise  may  destroy  it.  I  have  seen  a  little 
boy  placed  upon  a  stool  in  the  middle  of  a  school  to  be  pointed 
at  by  his  playfellows.  The  consequence  was  that,  from  that 
time,  he  never  was  ashamed  of  anything. 

On  the  same  principle,  I  would  not  have  him  called  dunce, 
or  stupid,  or  blockhead,  and  particularly  if  he  should  in  reality 
deserve  such  names.  That  way  of  degrading  an  ingenuous  dis- 
position in  its  own  esteem,  can  produce  no  good  effect.  It  either 
completely  stupifies  a  dull  boy,  or  sinks  and  oppresses  a  natural 
genius.  In  short,  I  would  never  have  him  wear  a  fool's-cap,  nor 
otherwise  made  an  object  of  scorn,  for  anything  but  base  or  dis- 
honourable actions. 

The  great  motive  of  action,  which  I  would  have  constantly 
presented  to  his  mind,  is  that  it  depends  upon  himself  whether 
he  is  to  be  a  peasant  or  a  gentleman.  It  is  the  fear  of  the  rod 
that  accustoms  boys  to  lies  and  low  concealment. 

On  the  other  hand,  you  must  be  cautious  of  praising  or  ad- 
miring him  too  much.  Moderate  applause,  when  deserved,  is 
j  ust  in  itself,  and  serves  to  encourage  a  young  mind  ;  but  to 
bestow  it  lavishly,  or  indiscreetly,  is  always  attended  with  bad 
consequences.  It  creates  insolence,  vanity,  and  a  neglect  of 
improvement. 

In  regard  to  corporal  punishment,  there  is  a  single  case,  in 
which  I  think  it  may  properly  be  inflicted,  but  always  with 
prudence  and  moderation,  and  without  the  smallest  mixture  of 
passion.  I  mean,  where  a  boy  is  observed  to  be  of  a  cruel  dis- 
position, or  careless  what  pain  he  inflicts  upon  his  weaker  play- 
fellows, or  other  creatures,  that  may  happen  to  be  in  his  power. 
In  this  case,  which  in  respect  to  my  own  son  I  hope  will  never 
exist,  I  think  it  just  and  necessary  that  he  himself  should  be 


400  APPENDIX. 

taught  to  feel  the  pain  he  inflicts ;  not  in  the  light  of  punish- 
ment, but  that  he  may  learn,  from  his  own  sensations,  to  have 
mercy  on  others.  In  the  application  of  this  rule,  I  think  the 
law  of  Talio  should  be  observed,  wherever  it  can  be  done  with 
safety. 

Allowing  for  the  natural  difference  of  constitution  in  dif- 
ferent persons,  I  am  convinced  that  the  mind  as  well  as  the 
body  may  acquire  a  certain  degree  of  strength  from  exercise.  I 
desire,  therefore,  that  you  will  endeavour  to  accustom  the  boy's 
mind  to  undervalue  danger,  and  gradually  make  him  familiar 
with  any  objects  that  he  may  seem  to  be  most  afraid  of.  This 
must  be  done  without  violence,  and  by  showing  him  mildly  that 
there  is  no  danger  where  he  thinks  there  is.  A  quarrelsome, 
factious  disposition  should  be  checked  by  severity  ;  a  soft  and 
timid  one  should  be  animated  and  encouraged.  Some  men  are 
unquestionably  brave  by  nature ;  but  I  believe  that,  in  a  great 
majority  of  mankind,  courage  and  resolution  is  the  effect  of 
habit.  His  mind  is  yet  untainted  by  the  silly  fear  of  ghosts 
and  hobgoblins,  and  I  beg  that  the  utmost  care  may  be  taken 
to  prevent  any  body's  terrifying  him  with  such  notions.  His 
sensibility  is  so  exquisite,  that  an  impression  of  that  kind,  once 
made  upon  him,  might  never  be  erased.  The  best  way  is  to 
avoid  such  subjects  or  anything  that  leads  to  them. 

For  the  sake  of  his  health,  on  which  the  mental  faculties  do 
almost  entirely  depend,  I  desire  that  he  may  take  as  much 
exercise  and  be  as  much  in  the  open  air  as  possible,  that  he 
may  be  constantly  washed  in  cold  water  in  winter  as  well  as  in 
summer,  and  be  obliged  to  wash  his  mouth  with  cold  water  in 
all  weathers,  especially  after  meat.  Let  his  food  be  quite  plain, 
and  never  let  him  taste  wine.  With  respect  to  sleep,  you  will 
observe  his  constitution  ;  whether  rising  very  early  does,  or  does 
not,  make  him  dull  and  heavy  for  the  remainder  of  the  day ;  and 
regulate  his  time  of  rising  accordingly.  I  insist  upon  his 
constantly  sleeping  alone,  for  reasons  that  will  increase  with  his 
years. 

There  is  nothing  I  dread  or  abhor  so  much  as  gaming,  and  I 
beg  that  if  hereafter  he  should  discover  any  turn  that  way,  you 
may  do  everything  in  your  power  to  check  and  discourage  it. 

As  I  think  his  moral  and  political  sentiments  of  much  more 
consequence  than  what  is  commonly  called  his  learning,  I  shall 
state  to  you  generally  upon  what  principles  I  would  wish  his 


APPENDIX.  407 

future  conduct  in  life  should  be  directed,  before  I  enter  into 
the  detail  of  his  education. 

He  is  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  England,  as  it  is 
established  by  law.  I  do  not  intend  to  impose  any  bias  upon 
his  private  opinions  in  religious  matters,  nor  would  1  have  his 
understanding  perplexed  with  the  discussion  of  dogmas,  or  with 
the  contemplation  of  mysteries.  But  I  expect  that  he  shall  be 
taught  to  respect  the  religion,  as  he  ought  to  do  every  other  law, 
of  his  country.  He  is  also  to  conform  decently  to  the  ceremonies 
of  the  Church,  by  which  I  do  not  mean  to  bind  his  understand- 
ing. But  the  certainty  of  a  particular  Providence  watching  over 
us,  the  existence  of  a  God  who  knows  our  most  secret  thoughts 
and  actions,  who  rewards  and  punishes,  and  the  immortality  of 
the  soul,  are  topics,  on  which  you  cannot  enlarge  too  much. 
Besides  the  manifest  absurdity  of  every  argument  to  the  con- 
trary, I  am  convinced  that  great,  and  good,  and  glorious  actions 
will  never  be  performed  by  creatures  whose  prospects  are 
bounded  by  the  narrow  limits  of  this  life. 

With  respect  to  political  knowledge,  he  must  be  at  least  four 
years  older,  and  his  understanding  much  improved,  before  he 
can  have  any  conception  of  what  is  meant  by  the  constitution 
of  England.  In  the  meantime,  you  may  give  him  general 
notions  of  liberty  and  property,  and  inspire  him  with  zeal  to 
defend  them.  You  may  also  give  him  general  rules  of  justice, 
and  encourage  him  to  decide  even  against  himself,  where  those 
rules  require  it.  As  he  begins  to  read,  I  would  have  the 
examples  of  great  and  good  men  particularly  pointed  out  to 
him ;  such  as  Brutus,  Cato,  Harry  the  Fourth  of  France,  and 
our  Algernon  Sydney.  Considering  the  present  state  of  things 
and  opinions  in  this  country,  there  is  no  danger  of  his  carrying 
any  prejudices,  in  favour  of  patriotism  and  public  virtue,  to  an 
imprudent  or  criminal  excess.  I  would  have  his  mind,  in  this 
respect,  come  rough  from  the  school,  as  the  guinea  does  from 
the  mint.  The  practice  of  the  world  will  soon  make  it  smooth 
enough. 

As  I  am  to  be  absent  from  him  several  years,  I  am  obliged  to 
collect  all  the  hints  that  occur  to  me  concerning  his  instruction 
into  one  view,  though  I  am  sensible  that  many  of  them  cannot 
be  made  use  of  at  present.  The  time  and  manner  of  applying 
them  is  left  to  your  own  judgment  and  observation.  You  will 
undoubtedly  do  everything  in  your  power  to  discourage  the 


408  APPENDIX. 

progress  of  any  mean  or  bad  passion  in  his  mind ;  such  as 
avarice,  selfishness,  revenge,  &c.  On  the  other  hand,  there  are 
virtues  to  be  taught,  as  well  as  vices  to  be  removed.  I  speak 
of  generosity,  veracity,  fidelity  to  a  promise,  and  the  firmness  of 
keeping  a  secret  against  every  trial  or  temptation.  This  last  is 
rather  a  prudential  quality,  than  strictly  a  virtue,  but  it  is  of 
the  highest  importance  in  the  commerce  of  the  world  ;  and  I 
am  convinced  it  may  be  acquired,  or  at  least  the  dangerous  dis- 
position to  loquacity  very  much  corrected,  if  boys  are  accus- 
tomed, early  in  life,  to  be  trusted  with  little  secrets,  under  the 
condition  of  not  revealing  them. 

In  addition  to  these  general  instructions,  which  belong  to 
every  station  in  life,  it  is  proper  that  my  son  should  be 
informed,  and  often  reminded,  of  his  particular  situation.  That 
he  is  the  only  brother  of  five  sisters,  of  whose  honour  and 
interest  he  is  to  be  the  guardian  ;  that  if  I  perish  abroad,  it 
will  be  his  duty  to  supply  my  place,  as  far  as  his  age  and  means 
will  admit  of  it,  by  every  possible  act  of  affection  to  them  and 
to  his  mother ;  that  I  have  left  my  country  with  the  hope  of 
being  able  to  establish  his  fortune  and  theirs ;  and  that  I  set 
out  in  life  without  the  smallest  advantage  of  birth  or  fortune, 
or  indeed  any  other  but  that  of  having  had  an  excellent 
father. 

With  regard  to  the  instruction  of  the  school :  the  first  step 
towards  the  improvement  of  his  mind  is  to  read  and  thoroughly 
understand  his  mother-tongue ;  I  place  Latin  in  the  second 
degree,  and  French  in  the  third.  These  languages  are  essential 
to  the  education  of  a  gentleman;  and  I  desire  that,  in  learning 
them,  he  may  be  taught  to.  pronounce  his  words  with  an  exact 
articulation,  and  that  his  memory  may  be  exercised  as  much  as 
possible.  When  he  reads,  let  him  stand  at  some  distance  from 
you ;  let  him  be  obliged  to  read  very  loud,  and  never  suffered 
to  pronounce  either  words  or  sentences  with  a  chaunt  or  tone. 
This  is  a  vile  and  dangerous  habit,  and  I  see  but  few  boys 
without  it.  You  should  select  the  harshest  and  roughest  words 
that  can  be  found  in  English,  and  put  them  together  in  a 
sentence,  which  he  should  be  made  to  repeat,  so  as  gradually  to 
accustom  his  tongue  to  pronounce  them  fluently  and  articu- 
lately. While  he  is  reading,  observe  how  he  sits  or  stands,  that 
you  may  correct  any  awkwardness  in  his  posture :  poking  out 
the  head,  raising  the  shoulders,  or  distorting  the  features. 


APPENDIX.  409 

Whenever  he  speaks,  let  him  look  the  person  he  speaks  to  full 
in  the  face.  The  trick  of  looking  down  or  sideways  is  mean 
and  illiberal,  and  grows  into  a  habit  that  may  never  be  shaken 
off. 

Between  nine  and  ten  years  of  age,  he  is  to  be  sent  to  a 
public  school,  where  it  will  be  time  enough  for  him  to  learn  the 
rudiments  of  the  Greek  language.  I  have  appointed  Messieurs 
Chandler,  d'Oyly,  and  Godfrey  my  trustees  in  my  absence,  and 
whatever  directions  they  may  think  proper  to  give  respecting 
this  or  any  other  part  of  the  boy's  education  are  to  be  strictly 
observed.  I  would  not  have  him  begin  to  learn  to  write  and 
cipher  before  Christmas  1775,  nor  to  dance  before  he  is  nine 
years  old. 

I  would  have  his  first  reading  directed,  as  far  as  his  years 
will  admit  of  it,  to  history,  and  you  may  begin  with  the  Ghreek 
and  Komaii.  That  of  England  is  the  most  important.  But  no 
history  is  useful  unless  it  be  accompanied  with  some  observation 
of  chronology,  or  the  succession  of  events ;  and  of  geography,  or 
the  situation  of  the  places  where  the  events  happened.  I  would 
have  him  taught  the  English  history  backwards ;  that  is,  begin- 
ning from  the  present,  and  carrying  his  mind  back  from  year  to 
year,  until  he  arrives  at  the  earliest  periods.  This,  I  think, 
resembles  the  analytical  method  of  inquiry  recommended  by 
some  of  our  greatest  men  in  other  branches  of  knowledge ;  and 
I  am  convinced  it  is  the  best  way  of  learning  modern  history, 
the  latest  part  of  which  ought  naturally  to  be  the  most  in- 
teresting; yet,  from  my  own  experience,  I  can  affirm  it  is  the 
last  that  boys  usually  read.  I  remember  extremely  well  that  I, 
and  most  of  the  bo}Ts  of  my  age  at  school,  were  in  some  degree 
masters  of  the  early  parts  of  the  English  history,  particularly 
of  every  brilliant  period,  though  we  knew  nothing  of  what  had 
happened  since  the  Accession. 

I  would  not  have  him  learn  Latin  until  he  can  spell  and  read 
English  tolerably  well,  and  I  should  prefer  his  learning  Latin  by 
rote  for  some  time  before  you  attempt  to  instruct  him  in  the 
rules  of  grammar.  I  believe  you  will  find  this  the  easiest  way 
both  to  yourself  and  to  the  boy. 

My  present  ideas  upon  the  whole  are  to  give  him  that  sort  of 
education  which  may  qualify  him  to  sit  with  credit  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  if  ever  my  fortune  should  enable  me  to 
place  him  there. 


410  APPENDIX. 

He  is  to  pass  two  years  at  Cambridge,  and  at  a  proper  age, 
that  is,  when  he  is  one-and-twenty  at  the  soonest,  I  propose  that 
he  should  make  the  tour  of  Europe.  You  will  have  an  eye  to 
this  plan  while  you  are  laying  the  foundation  of  his  education. 
I  wish  to  keep  him  clear  of  any  particular  profession.  The 
Church  and  the  Army  are  those  which  I  like  the  least  of  all. 
The  study  of  the  Law  is  a  sure  way  to  advancement,  provided  a 
young  man  has  naturally  more  patience  and  application  than 
his  companions,  which  I  have  no  reason  to  presume  will  be  the 
case  of  rny  son.  You  see,  I  throw  my  thoughts  together  as  they 
occur  to  me,  without  regard  to  method  or  regularity.  I  shall 
conclude  with  a  few  general  rules  of  instruction,  which  are  in 
some  degree  applicable  to  all  children. 

They  should  be  as  much  as  possible  in  your  own  company, 
and  never  in  that  of  servants  or  other  mean  persons.  Bor- 
rowing money  from  such  persons  has  a  very  bad  tendency,  and 
I  beg  you  will  take  the  utmost  care  to  prevent  it.  In  all  the 
boy's  little  distresses  of  that  or  any  other  kind,  I  would  have 
you  encourage  him  to  apply  to  yourself  directly  for  assistance, 
rather  than  to  his  mother  or  Mrs.  D'Orville.  At  the  same  time 
that  you  inspire  them  with  proper  spirit,  they  are  to  be  taught 
the  distinctions  of  rank,  the  respect  due  to  superiors,  par- 
ticularly in  years,  and  the  respective  duties  and  civilities  of  life, 
which  are  founded  in  reciprocal  necessity,  and  make  virtue 
amiable.  Under  this  article  I  include  everything  that  the 
French  call  les  petites  morales.  Above  all  things,  endeavour  to 
inspire  him  with  spirit  to  speak  truth  upon  every  occasion,  and 
show  him  that  you  are  readier  to  forgive  a  fault  than  any 
attempt  to  conceal  it,  especially  by  falsehood.  Mr.  Locke's 
observations  upon  these  and  other  topics  of  behaviour  are 
admirable. 

Instruction  and  correction  of  every  sort  should  be  accom- 
panied with  a  sort  of  reasoning  and  argument  proportioned  to 
the  child's  understanding,  that  he  may  comprehend  the  recti- 
tude or  necessity  of  what  he  is  ordered  to  do.  The  natural 
curiosity  of  children  should  be  encouraged,  and  always  satisfied 
by  direct  answers.  Your  conversation  should  always  be  plain 
and  direct,  not  figurative ;  for  children  take  everything  in  the 
direct  sense,  and  therefore  you  are  to  be  very  cautious  what  you 
or  any  of  your  family  say  in  their  presence. 

Be  moderate  and  exact  in  the  distribution  of  rewards,  that  the 


APPENDIX.  411 

children  may  set  so  much  the  higher  value  upon  them.  A 
peevish  master,  who  is  incessantly  chiding  his  scholars  for 
trifling  faults,  is  disabled  from  expressing  proper  censure  of 
great  ones.  This  I  know  is  an  error  into  which  you,  of  all  men, 
are  the  least  likely  to  fall. 

All  that  remains  for  me  now  is  to  wish  you  success  in  your 
undertaking,  and  to  assure  you  that  I  shall  not  think  your 
labours  rewarded  by  any  salary  that  I  can  pay  you ;  but  that 
you  will  be  entitled  to  my  everlasting  gratitude  and  esteem. 

I  am,  &c., 

P.  FRANCIS. 


1  Des  1'age  le  plus  tendre  on  respecte  en  eux  (les  sauvages  de  I'Am^rique) 
leur  inde"pendance  naturelle.  Jamais  on  ne  les  bat,  jamais  on  ne  les  gronde, 
pour  he  pas  abattre  cet  esprit  libre  et  martial,  qui  doit  former  un  jour  la  base 
de  leur  caractere.  On  evite  meme  d'employer  des  raisons  trop  fortes  pour 
les  persuader,  parceque  ce  serait  une  espece  de  violence  qu'on  ferait  a  leur 
volonte. — Itaynal,  c.  28. 


412  APPENDIX. 


No.  X. 

THE  letters  of  Francis  to  Alexander  Macrabie  in  America, 
and  to  Richard  Tilghman  after  he  had  returned  there 
(extending  from  1767  to  177 3)  are  printed  in  their  places 
in  the  Memoir.  I  have  thought  it  best  to  give  the  other 
side  of  the  correspondence  collectively  and  separate,  so  as 
not  to  interrupt  the  biography  of  Francis  himself.  They 
are  here  printed,  with  one  or  two  from  other  American 
relatives.  They  add  something  to  our  knowledge  of  life 
in  the  British  provinces  just  before  Independence. 

LETTER  I. 

On  board  the  Dragon  :  13th  Sept.  1767. 

My  dear  Brother, — About  a  month  ago  I  informed  you  of  my 
safe  arrival  at  Madeira,  in  a  very  foolish  drunken  letter  from 
that  island ;  at  least,  I  conceive  so  from  the  condition  we  all 
found  ourselves  in  when  we  returned  on  board.  Depend  upon 
it,  I  shall  never  write  to  you  again  in  that  state.  I  am  de- 
termined to  be  very  regular  in  America. 

This  voyage  seems  like  a  gap  in  life — it  furnishes  nothing. 
We  have  now  been  thirty-one  days  out  of  sight  of  every  object 
but  sky  and  water,  and  when  it  will  be  at  an  end  God  knows. 

The  winds  have  not  favoured  us  greatly,  being  for  the  most 
part  so  calm,  that  the  voyage  hitherto  might  have  been  per- 
formed safely  in  the  ship's  boat.  I  can't  tell  if  we  may  charge 
the  tediousness  of  our  passage  to  the  captain's  neglecting  an 
image  of  St.  Antonio,  recommended  to  him  at  Madeira.  St. 
Antonio  is  the  patron  of  Eoman  Catholic  sailors ;  none  of  their 
ships  will  sail  without  him ;  they  tie  him  to  their  mainmast, 


APPENDIX.  413 

and  are  very  constant  in  their  adorations  to  him.  If  he  procures 
them  a  fair  wind,  they  reward  his  kindness  with  a  taper;  but  if 
the  contrary,  with  a  rope's  end. 

Madeira  is  a  vast  rock  in  the  midst  of  the  ocean — they  say 
about  the  size  of  the  Isle  of  Wight.  Tho'  entirely  mountainous, 
it  is  extremely  fertile  in  vines,  and  produces  also  abundance  of 
fleas  and  lizards.  I  am  told  it  contains  about  120,000  in- 
habitants. I  hardly  saw  a  woman  in  the  place;  the  Portuguese, 
you  know,  look  up  all  that  are  worth  seeing.  Their  bishop  is 
so  very  strict  he  will  not  allow  any  of  the  nuns  to  appear,  even 
at  the  grate  of  their  convents,  but  such  as  are  old  and  ugly. 
These  are  a  kind  of  gentlewomen  I  don't  desire  the  least 
correspondence  with,  so  did  not  pay  them  a  visit. 

In  a  large  convent  of  Franciscan  friars  I  went  through,  there 
were  some  jolly  old  fathers,  who  live  very  comfortably ;  at  least, 
their  kitchen  convinced  me  that  starving  is  no  favourite  penance 
with  them.  You  have  seen  so  much  of  the  richness  and  splen- 
dour of  the  Romish  churches,  that  I  need  not  say  anything 
about  them.  These  which  I  saw,  tho',  to  be  sure,  very  mean  in 
comparison  of  what  you  have  met  with  in  Paris  and  Lisbon, 
amazed  me. 

The  people  of  Madeira  are  extremely  anxious  about  the 
success  of  our  embassy  to  Lisbon.  They  expect  every  con- 
cession on  the  side  of  the  Portuguese,  whose  American  posses- 
sions, in  case  of  a  rupture  with  England,  they  think  would  bid 
fair  to  change  their  master.  Indeed,  if  they  are  all  as  slightly 
defended  as  that  island,  they  would  not  require  any  great  force 
to  effect  it.  Here  is  an  affectation  of  forts,  but  they  are  very 
contemptible.  The  soldiers  look  like  starved  footmen. 

We  were  dressed  out  in  swords  and  bag-wigs,  and  all  that — 
everybody  dresses  there.  I  took  our  barber  for  the  Corregidore  ; 
he  came  in  full  trimmed  suit  of  black,  a  long  wig,  and  a  sword. 
Who  do  you  think  was  the  reigning  toast  at  Madeira? — Miss 
Pigou,  who  used  to  be  at  Hampstead.  The  ship  she  went  to 
the  East  Indies  in  touched  there.  All  the  merchants  of  the 
place  are  in  love  with  her. 

Saturday,  19th  September  1767. 

We  have  just  seen  land — a  comfortable  sight  after  five  weeks' 
absence  from  any  shore.  I  can't  write  or  do  anything. 


414  APPENDIX. 


Philadelphia :  8th  October. 


Thank  God,  I  am  safely  arrived  here,  and  in  good  health, 
tho'  not  so  soon  as  we  expected.  The  first  land  we  made  was 
Virginia ;  and  the  wind  falling  calm,  we  were  four  days  more 
Betting  to  the  mouth  of  the  river  Delaware.  We  landed  forty 

" 

miles  below  this  city,  at  a  town  called  Newcastle,  where  we 
swallowed  cream  and  bread-and-butter  and  new-laid  eggs  like  so 
many  devils.  But  I  must  not  give  you  any  account  of  America  in 
this  letter;  indeed,  I  have  not  time,  for  after  the  arrival  of  packet, 
they  only  allow  us  time  enough  to  answer  letters  before  the 
mail  is  dispatched  back  again  to  New  York.  I  believe  I  told 
you  I  was  very  sick  for  a  week  after  I  came  on  board ;  after 
that  I  had  an  amazing  appetite,  and  eat  and  drank  at  such  a 
rate,  that  when  I  attempted  to  put  on  my  clothes  (which  I  had 
no  occasion  for  during  the  last  month  at  sea)  I  could  hardly 
button  them. 

I  have  read  a  great  deal  this  voyage— a  great  deal  of  Swift, 
a  great  deal  of  Pope,  half  the  History  of  England,  and  Count 
Grammont  over  and  over.  There  is  nothing  pleases  me  more 
than  that  book.  Do  buy  me  now  and  then  a  clever  French 
book,  and  anything  new  you  think  I  can  understand.  You  are  a 
better  judge  of  both  my  capacity  and  of  what  I  can  afford  to 
lay  out  in  that  way,  than  I  am.  Pray  don't  forget  that  you  are 
to  make  me  a  present  every  year  of  one  of  your  Court  Calendars ; 
yours  are  the  best  of  any. 

Governor  Hamilton  is  not  yet  arrived,  but  expected  every 
hour.  A  ship  arrived  here  yesterday  morning  which  sailed  from 
the  Downs  at  the  same  time  with  him.  The  people  here  have 
got  it  in  their  heads  that  he  brings  a  woman  with  him — not  a 
wife — and  that  she  is  to  preside  at  bis  table,  and  a  deal  of 
nonsense  ;  they  are  dragons  for  politicks  and  scandal. 

We  hear  Sir  Harry  Moore  is  superseded  in  his  government 
of  New  York,  and  is  going  home ;  that  a  colonial  clerk  is  ap- 
pointed in  his  room  ;  that  Lord  Holland  is  now  the  leading  man 
in  the  ministry,  and  granting  lands  in  America  like  dirt.  I 
wish  he  would  give  you  a  grant  when  his  hand  is  in.  'Tis  the 
only  country  in  the  world  to  wish  for  possessions  in,  to  my 
mind. 

Mr.  Neave  has  taken  a  house  here — a  very  pleasant  one,  with 
a  great  many  fine  trees  hanging  over  it,  a  little  garden,  and 


APPENDIX.  415 

good  stabling.  We  breakfast  comfortably,  and  always  dine 
with  somebody  or  other.  They  drink  too  much,  but  everything 
is  extremely  good. 

We  have  races  here  next  week,  and  a  review,  and  plays. 
This  is  the  busiest  season  in  Philadelphia — the  election,  and 
annual  meeting  of  the  Quakers ;  a  very  full  town. 

I  must  now  make  an  end  of  this  long,  dull  chit-chat  letter  ; 
I  don't  like  it  myself. 

•  I  wish  you  would  write  to  me  often,  that  I  may  improve.  I 
have  wrote  a  long  letter  to  Fulham,  which  I  have  enclosed  in 
this,  and  beg  you  will  send  there. 

I  shall  write  next  pacquet  to  my  sister  ;  my  love  to  her.  God 
bless  my  three  little  girls. 

Farewell,  my  dearest  Philip. 

You  know  how  truly  I  am  your  affectionate, 

A.  MACKRABT. 


LETTER  II. 

Bristol :  20th  January  1768. 

My  dear  Philip, — I  wrote  you  last  week,  but  cannot  exactly 
recollect  what  day ;  I  sent  it  to  New  York,  to  Mr.  Neave,  to 
forward  by  a  private  ship.  This  goes  by  the  paquet,  which  is 
but  just  arrived,  and  will  be  dispatched  again  directly.  I  have 
so  little  time  to  write  this  and  several  other  letters,  that  I  am 
forced  to  steal  an  hour  from  company  at  an  inn,  wbere  I  put  up 
on  my  return  from  a  visit  to  Mr.  Franklyn,  governor  of  the 
province  of  Jersey,  to  whom  I  was  introduced  yesterday  by  a 
friend  of  his  and  mine.  He  is  a  son  of  Dr.  Franklin's,  of  Phil- 
adelphia, whom  all  the  world  knows.  But  perhaps  you  may 
have  seen  this  gentleman  in  England.  He  is  a  very  sensible 
agreeable  man,  and  behaved  with  the  utmost  politeness  to 
us ;  entertained  us  at  his  house  till  this  day.  I  could  hardly 
find  myself  out  this  morning  in  a  most  elegant  crimson  silk 
damask  bed. 

The  November  paquet  is  just  arrived.  I  have  received  a 
letter  from  my  father,  in  which  he  informs  me  that  you  and 
my  sister  and  the  little  folks  are  all  well.  I  rejoice  at  it.  The 
October  pacquet  is  not  yet  come  in,  perhaps  it  may  bring  a 
letter  from  you.  I  hear  there  is  a  good  deal  of  public  news, 


416  APPENDIX. 

but  I  have  not  yet  seen  any  papers.  I  am  informed  there  are 
three  new  governments  forming  upon  the  frontiers.  When  they 
take  place  I  wish  they  may  not  meet  with  interruption  from 
the  Indians,  who  begin  to  be  very  unquiet.  I  think  I  men- 
tioned in  my  last  some  encroachments  made  upon  their  hunting 
grounds  by  white  people,  which  they  complain  highly  of.  We 
have  fresh  accounts  every  day  of  murders  among  them.  The 
assembled  governors  and  the  commander-in-chief  are  all  anxious 

c5 

to  put  a  stop  to  these  irregularities,  which  if  not  soon  done 
great  confusion  is  apprehended.  Objects  so  distant  as  these 
may  not  much  engage  the  attention  of  people  in  England, 
but  they  are  the  constant  and  general  topics  here.  I  may  cry 
out,  '  Happy  is  he  who  possesses  nothing,  for  in  the  day  of 
trouble  he  bath  nothing  to  fear.' 

If  any  one  would  tempt  me  with  a  very  advantageous  pro- 
posal, I  should  make  little  objection  to  settling  upon  the  Ohio, 
or,  indeed,  any  where  to  get  money.  I  do  not  think  the  people 
here  quite  so  mad  as  the  good  folks  on  your  side  of  the  water 
were  some  years  before  our  time,  with  their  famous  Mississippi 
scheme,  but  you  would  really  be  amazed  at  the  rapturous  terms 
in  which  those  who  have  been  some  hundred  miles  to  the 
westward  of  this,  speak  of  the  country.  As  they  advance 
inland  the  climate  becomes  more  temperate  and  settled,  the 
soil  rich  and  fertile,  producing  spontaneously  many  useful 
herbs,  plants  and  fruits,  in  many  spots  fine  extensive  tracts  of 
open  champain  country,  not  loaded  with  useless  woods  as  every 
part  near  the  coast  is — extremely  troublesome  and  expensive 
to  clear.  We  shall  see  what  time  will  bring  forth. 

I  wish  you  could  get  a  grant  of  land  for  yourself;  your  chil- 
dren might  reap  the  benefit  of  it,  tho'  it  might  not  turn  to  any 
immediate  benefit  for  yourself. 

It  is  almost  a  proverb  in  this  neighbourhood  that  '  Every 
great  fortune  made  here  within  these  50  years  has  been  by 
land.'  I  walked  over  the  river  Delaware  this  morning,  where 
it  is  more  than  a  mile  broad,  upon  the  ice  ;  carriages  loaded  at 
the  same  time  passing  to  and  fro.  You  may  imagine  in  such  a 
season,  when  all  nature  is  locked  up,  there  can  be  little  here 
worth  communicating.  The  amusement  among  the  ladies  of 
all  ranks  and  ages  is  riding  upon  the  snow  in  sleighs,  a  kind  of 
open  coach  upon  a  sledge,  drawn  by  a  pair  of  horses.  They 


APPENDIX.  417 

make  parties  out  of  town  in  them,  and  drive  at  a  prodigious 
rate.     Tis  pleasant  enough. 

You  must  have  read  of  the  vast  variety  of  religions  and  dif 
ferent  persuasions  in  practice  in  this  country.  I  heard  the 
other  day  of  a  new  sect,  who  call  themselves  Eogerines,  from 
their  principal,  whose  name  is  Eoger.  They  run  about,  stark 
naked,  men  and  women,  and  profess  to  live  in  the  state  of  pri- 
mitive innocence.  In  this  country  they  go  into  churches  and 
other  religious  meetings,  where  they  dance  about  in  an  extra- 
ordinary manner,  Billy  to  Betty,  and  cry  out  constantly,  '  Who 
can  do  as  we  do,  and  yet  be  pure  and  undented  ? '  This  is  a  fact ; 
but  pray  do  not  read  it  to  any  women.  I  have  just  room  left 
to  tell  you,  that  I  believe  I  owe  my  friend  Tom  Harris  four 
guineas ;  indeed  I  am  almost  sure  of  it.  I  have  wrote  to  him 
concerning  it.  If  you  should  see  him  and  he  has  received  my 
letter,  I  beg  the  favour  of  you  to  pay  him  that  sum  upon  my 
account. 

If  I  have  wrote  any  nonsense,  let  my  hurry  and  having  set  in 
the  corner  of  a  room  amongst  a  parcel  of  noisy  men  plead  my 
excuse.     My  best  love  to  the  four  ladies  of  your  family. 
Adieu.     Believe  me  with  the  greatest  truth 

and  warmest  affection,  ever  yours, 

A.  MACKRABT. 


LETTER  III. 

Philadelphia :  18th  February  1768. 

Dear  Brother, — I  am  unwilling  to  let  slip  this  first  opportunity 
of  writing  by  a  London  ship  immediately  from  this  port,  which 
has  been  blocked  up  above  two  months  by  ice. 

Your  letters  are  extremely  pleasing  when.  I  get  them,  but 
they  stay  a  confounded  while  by  the  way.  That  of  Sept.  12th 
I  only  received  last  week.  There  was  one  inclosed  from  my 
sister,  for  which  I  shall  acknowledge  my  obligation  to  her  in 
one  immediately  addressed  to  herself,  but  it  must  be  by  the  next 
vessel.  I  now  write  to  both,  not  that  I  mean  to  scold  her,  as  I  am 
just  going  to  do  you  for  telling  me  *  I  shall  have  the  particulars 
of  your  tour  thro'  Flanders  when  we  meet.'  Pray  when  do  you 
suppose  that  will  be  ?  For  the  next  line  you  say,  '  You  long 

VOL.  I.  E  E 


418  APPENDIX. 

prodigiously  to  hear  how  I  play  the  devil  in  Philadelphia.' 
I  wish  Mr.  Neave,  when  he  returns  from  New  York,  may  not 
•think  I  have  been  playing  the  devil,  for  in  the  three  months  he 
has  been  absent  I  have  made  about  three  times  as  many  ac- 
quaintance as  he  has  done  in  so  many  years.  I  dine  with 
governors,  colonels,  and  the  Lord  knows  who.  I  have  seen 
Governor  Hamilton  three  or  four  times,  and  have  dined  with 
him  twice.  He  does  not  live  in  town,  but  at  a  noble  seat  about 
a  mile  and  a  half  from  the  city.  I  find  very  agreeable  society 
in  an  acquaintance  with  some  nephews  of  his.  I  have,  I  think, 
mentioned  more  than  once  the  pleasure  I  have  received  thro' 
your  connection,  and  the  civilities  shewn  me.  Upon  my  soul 
you  are  a  very  fine  family,  if  you  did  but  know  it.  A  cousin  of 
jours,  who  is  to  be  married  here  next  week  to  one  of  the  sons  of 
the  Chief  Justice  of  the  Province,  is  a  charming  woman,  tho' 
not  in  my  opinion  so  amiable  as  another  pretty  cousin  of  yours 
whom  I  hope  to  dance  with  at  the  assembly  to-morrow. 

I  am  very  much  obliged  by  that  letter  Mr.  Doyly  had  the 
goodness  to  procure  from  Sir  J.  Amherst  to  Genl.  Gage.  It 
is  indeed  extremely  civil ;  and  I  shall  most  certainly  deliver  it 
when  I  go  to  New  York.  You  know  his  rank  is  very  high  in 
America,  and  all  strangers  wait  on  him. 

Here  is  arrived  a  young  Scotch  gentleman,  Lord  Rosehill, 
son  of  Lord  Northesk ;  he  is  under  age,  and  married  without 
his  father's  consent,  who  sends  him  hither  upon  a  very  small 
allowance  to  repent  at  his  leisure.  He  was  an  ensign  in  the 
25th  Regiment ;  most  people  wait  upon  him.  I  give  you  joy 
of  your  profit  upon  India  sWk,  but  let  me  at  the  same  time 
give  you  a  piece  of  advice,  which  is  never  to  deal  in  that  or  any 
other  stock  but  for  money.  You  can  then  buy  when  you 
please ;  and  keep  it  till  you  find  a  price  to  your  mind.  Buy 
when  it  falls,  and  sell  when  it  gets  up,  and  you  must  be  a 
gainer;  but  the  cursed  gulph  of  speculations  for  time  bull  and 
bear-ing  is  only  for  people  who  have  nothing  to  lose.  Pardonnez- 
moy,  Ttion  ami  !  I  have  a  few  interests  of  my  own  to  attend  to, 
and  I  can't  help  being  anxious  for  those  of  people  I  love. 

[Chitty's  new  business  was  upon  the  eve  of  beginning  before 
I  left  you.  Don't  you  remember  he  used  to  consult  his  friends 
about  a  wig,  like  Foote's  auctioneer  ?  Pray  how  does  your 
Foote  get  on  ?  I  suppose  I  shall  have  some  talk  about  him  if 
I  see  Mr.  O'Brien  at  New  York.  Did  I  never  tell  you  I  got  a 


APPENDIX.  419 

letter  from  Geo.  Camek  to  O'Brien  ?  A  gentleman  was  kind 
enough  to  ask  it  of  him  for  me.  I  left  it  at  the  Crown  without 
my  knowledge.  I  shall  certainly  know  all  the  world.  My 
father  writes  me  word  that  Sam  Teuth  has  married  Molly, 
whom  he  has  been  so  long  attached  to.  His  father  is  at  last 
reconciled  to  the  match,  and  they  are  like  to  live  in  a  very 
comfortable  manner.] 

We  have  no  talk  here  but  about  Indians.  As  that  is  a  sub- 
ject in  which  you  are  not  all  interested,  my  telling  you  of 
murders  and  encroachments  will  afford  you  no  amusement. 

In  my  letter  by  the  paquet  I  desired  you  to  pay  Harris  4£.  4s.  for 
me.  I  just  now  recollect  my  thirty  pounds  for  that  confounded 
bank-note.  If  the  bank-note  is  entirely  lost  (which  heaven 
grant)  I  shall  be  entitled  to  the  monies  in  March.  When  I  can 
meet  with  any  one  going  to  England,  I  will  send  you  a  power 
of  attorney  to  receive  it  for  me.  Positively  I  never  will  leave 
London  again  in  such  hurry,  or  forget  so  many  things.  Adieu. 
Love  to  the  ladies.  I  mean  your  lady  and  the  young  lady. 

I  am,  my  dearest  Philip,  most  affectionately  yours, 

ALEX.  MACKRABY. 


LETTER  IV. 

Philadelphia:  5th  March  1768. 

Dear  Brother, — I  received  with  great  pleasure  your  paquet 
of  5th  and  12th  December,  forwarded  from  New  York  by  Capt. 
Maturin,  thro'  the  channel  of  Col.  Wilkins  of  the  Koyal  Irish, 
now  here.  It  is  possible  Capt.  Maturin  may  have  mentioned 
me  in  his  letter  to  Col.  Wilkins,  who  is  always  very  civil  to  me. 
I  knew  him  a  little  before.  There  never  were  such  a  set  of 
topers  as  the  officers  of  his  regiment.  The  mess-rooms  at  the 
barracks  are  something  like  Circe's  cave,  out  of  which  no  man 
ever  returned  upon  two  pegs. 

I  thank  you  very  sincerely  for  your  promise  of  writing  to  me 
by  every  paquet,  and  I  am  as  determined  you  shall  hear  from 
me  at  least  as  often.  I  wonder  if  the  letter  I  wrote  from  the 
Madeiras  ever  came  to  hand  ?  It  was  to  have  been  forwarded 
by  way  of  Lisbon.  'Tis  of  no  consequence  now.  The  last  I 
wrote  you  from  hence  was  upon  the  8th  of  February ;  I  sent  by 

E  B  2 


420  APPENDIX. 

the  London  paquet,  Capt.  Cooke.  I  have  mentioned  before 
how  very  agreeable  the  reception  I  have  met  with  from  your 
cousins  here,  more  particularly  so,  as  it  has  introduced  me  to 
that  kind  of  acquaintance  which  is  the  most  difficult  for  a 
stranger  to  obtain ;  but  which  is  at  the  same  time  absolutely 
necessarv  to  his  comfort,  where  there  are  no  public  places  of 
diversions  ;  I  mean  that  of  a  few  agreeable  families  for  a  dish 
of  tea,  and  a  dish  of  chat,  without  ceremony.  I  have  also  young 
men  enough  of  my  acquaintance.  Taverns  and  coffee-houses 
are  not  so  much  frequented  here  as  they  are  at  London.  I  have 
one  weekly  club  at  a  tavern,  almost  the  only  occasion  on  which 
I  enter  one.  My  expences  are  by  these  means  moderate 
enough.  I  keep  a  good  horse  at  a  small  charge,  and  have  some 
very  agreeable  riding  companions.  With  all  these  advantages 
you  will  pronounce  me  a  happy  fellow.  I  am  tolerably  so  ;  but 
yet  do  not  want  any  vexation.  I  am  too  idle ;  my  sphere  of 
action  too  circumscribed  ;  subordinate  to  a  man  whose  abilities 
I  cannot  very  highly  admire ;  who  is  too  civil  to  have  much 
sincerity,  and  too  obstinate  to  let  his  natural  indolence  turn  to 
anv  account ;  who  will  neither  act  nor  be  guided ;  slow,  timid, 
irresolute.  This  is  a  petty  reason,  so  keep  it  to  yourself.  'Tis 
true  what  your  cousin  Tench  tells  you.  The  principal 
house  with  which  we  have  business  to  transact  has  stopt  pay- 
ment ;  but  it  does  not  therefore  follow  that  our  stay  is  to  be  at 
all  shorter,  for  tho'  we  have  been  in  this  country  near  six 
months,  their  accounts  (which  are  very  considerable  and  intri- 
cate) yet  remain  unsettled  and  unexamined,  to  the  no  small 
surprise  of  the  parties  themselves  and  of  me.  By  all  that's  mad 
and  foolish  it  is  not  my  fault.  I  proposed  measures  at  first, 
which  were  rejected  because  I  proposed  them.  I  have  now  only 
to  obey,  no  very  difficult  task,  especially  as  I  am  so  well  paid 
for  it.  But  that's  their  affair.  They  have  brought  me  hither, 
and  must  maintain  me.  I  do  sincerely  wish  they  would  let  me 
do  them  some  real  service.  But  why  must  I  plague  you  with 
all  this  nonsense  about  myself?  I  shall  only  add,  that  I  assure 
you,  my  friend,  even  if  my  present  engagements  should  not 
detain  me  long  here,  I  am  in  no  hurry  to  return  to  England ; 
at  least  I  am  resolved  first  to  try  what  this  part  of  the  globe 
can  do  for  me. 

I  observe  from  your  letters  and  others  the  Boston  combina- 
tions, and  the  reception  with  which  their  resolutions  met  with 


APPENDIX.  421 

in  London.  I  very  sincerely  believe  that  the  province  which  I 
have  hitherto  been  in,  is  the  most  moderate  of  any  in  its  con- 
duct with  regard  to  the  mother  country ;  but  they  have  all  too 
violent  principles  of  independence.  When  I  except  the  conduct 
of  this  province,  I  mean  only  in  what  relates  to  England ; 
for  in  its  intestine  divisions  it  is  as  eminent  as  any  of  them.  I 
will  look  out  for  a  conveyance,  and  send  you  an  address  or  two  of 
the  House  of  Assembly,  to  the  Governor,  with  the  answers.  The 
people,  growing  rich  and  powerful,  feel  themselves  uneasy  under 
the  weak  reins  of  a  proprietary  government,  as  they  express  it,  and 
want  to  be  under  the  more  immediate  protection  of  the  Crown. 
Is  not  this  a  second  part  to  the  frogs  in  the  fable  ? 

You  must  have  heard  of  the  application  made  at  home  by 
General  Gage  and  Sir  Henry  Moore,  about  precedence  at  New 
York.  I  don't  mean  upon  their  own  accounts,  as  that,  I  believe, 
is  a  determined  point ;  but  with  respect  to  their  ladies,  who 
cannot  agree  which  shall  stand  first  couple  in  a  country  dance. 
To  such  lengths  have  their  disputes  been  carried,  that  this 
winter  there  has  not  been  any  assemblies  at  all  in  New  York. 
But  unluckily  two  private  balls  have  been  given,  at  the  first  of 
which  there  were  high  words,  and  Lady  Moore  retired  in  a 
rage.  At  the  other,  which  happened  very  lately,  that  lady, 
calling  for  Sir  Henry's  support,  involved  him  in  a  quarrel  with 
an  officer  who  presided,  which  has  at  last  produced  a  formal 
challenge  from,  the  General  to  the  Governor,  who  they  say  has 
prudently  made  the  reply  gracious,  instead  of  the  retort  valiant. 
I  am  very  sorry  to  hear  of  the  attack  your  father  has  had  of 
the  palsey.  You  tell  me  he  is  pretty  well  recovered.  I  hope 
he  may  not  have  another  stroke.  'Tis  a  shocking  disorder.  I 
think  from  its  tedious  and  melancholy  effects  more  terrible  even 
than  apoplexey.  Your  friends  here  say  his  brother  had  an 
attack  of  the  same  nature,  when  about  his  age.  Your  cousins 
mentioned  to  me  that  Col.  Francis  (Tench's  brother)  has  been 
much  obliged  to  you  for  some  assistance  in  the  disposal  of  ex- 
change in  his  commission.  I  am  very  ready  to  give  credit  to 
them,  for  I  know  you  love  to  do  acts  of  kindness. 

I  thank  you  heartily  for  your  goodness  to  the  family  at  Ful- 
ham,  and  I  am  glad  that  you  approve  of  what  I  have  engaged 
to  do  for  them.  I  hope  I  may  live,  and  always  have  the  power 
to  fulfill  it.  I  remitted  them  twenty-five  pounds  in  November, 
and  shall  send  the  same  sum  in  about  two  months.  I  am 


422  APPENDIX. 

obliged  to  you  for  the  Court  Calendar,  and  still  more  for  your 
farther  offers  upon  the  score  of  books,  &c.  The  conveyance  I 
•would  recommend  on  such  occasions  is  to  send  the  things  to  the 
house  of  Messrs.  Johnston  &  Jolly,  merchants,  in  Fenchurch 
Street.  I  correspond  constantly  with  Jolly  upon  subjects  of 
business.  Mercantile  people  are  in  tfce  way  of  shipping  things 
with  ease.  Your  political  postscripts  will  always  afford  me 
entertainment,  nor  need  you  either  fear  my  quoting  your 
authority  or  being  infected  with  the  rage  of  party.  I  am 
amused  by  such  subjects,  but  no  more  seriously  affected  than 
your  wife  would  be,  who,  farther  than  your  interests  are  con- 
cerned, cares  nearly  as  much  for  a  prime  minister  as  she  does 
for  one  of  Harriet's  old  stockings.  I  would  not  as  a  friend 
advise  Mr.  G.  Grenville  to  come  and  pass  a  summer  in  North 
America.  It  might  be  unsafe. 

I  cannot  help  laughing  at  your  account  of  the  dissensions  in 
that  little  state,  Covent  Garden  Theatre,  entre  nous.  I  believe 
friend  Harris  has  had  something  to  do  in  all  Mr.  Lessingham's 
affairs.  I  heard  so  a  twelvemonth  ago.  I  expect  a  letter  from 
him  soon.  I  agree  with  you  they  must  be  mad  if  they 
cannot  sit  quietly  down  and  divide  the  spoil.  I  suppose 
Garrick  plays  away  this  year  like  a  dragon.  Did  Foote  clear 
much  in  the  Haymarket  ? 

I  am  just  going  to  write  to  Mr.  Chandler.  I  wish  he  would 
lend  me  a  thousand  pounds  to  trade  with.  He  was  very  general 
in  his  offers  of  friendship  to  me,  but  perhaps  would  think  me 
too  particular  if  I  should  put  it  to  the  test  in  that  shape.  I 
will  not  run  the  risk  of  offending  him  by  the  question.  I  don't 
know  if  anything  can  make  Mrs.  Chandler  perfectly  happy.  She 
has  long  seemed  to  enjoy  every  comfort  riches  can  give.  The 
noble  house  you  describe  will  be  an  object  for  some  time;  but 
everything  loses  its  value  after  a  long  enjoyment.  I  am  sure  I 
find  it  so  in  many  things.  Some  pairs  of  silk  stockings  which  I 
greatly  admired,  and  have  long  been  intimate  with,  are  now  be- 
come so  unpleasing  to  my  eyes,  that  I  am  resolved  to  see  but  half 
of  them  at  a  time,  meaning  to  cover  the  lower  parts,  in  which  are 
many  apparent  marks  of  venerable  age,  with  a  kind  of  half  spat- 
ter-dashes of  black  cloth  in  vogue  here.  I  must  have  some  new 
ones  for  holiday  and  fine  weather.  I  will  therefore  trouble  you 
to  buy  six  pairs  agreeable  to  pattern  I  shall  send  you  very 
Soon. 


APPENDIX.  423 

10th  March. 

I  mean  now  to  put  a  finish  to  this  letter  for  the  pacquet.  I 
had  like  not  to  have  noticed  your  trip  to  Bath  for  the  Christmas 
holidays ;  besides  the  tour  of  Flanders  in  the  summer.  Courage, 
mon  ami  I  I  fancy  messieurs  the  whist-players  at  the  Crown 
have  been  out  of  luck  lately.  We  have  just  now  an  account  of 
great  Ministerial  changes  and  a  new  Parliament-Secretary  for 
the  colonies.  Here  is  a  parcel  of  nonsense  buzzing  about  of 
wars  and  tumults.  The  King  of  Prussia  and  the  Dutch,  and  I 
don't  know  what  all.  I  don't  care  half  so  much  about  the 
nations  upon  earth  as  I  do  for  your  health,  welfare,  and  hap- 
piness. That  they  may  all  remain  fixed  upon  the  best  and 
firmest  basis  is  the  wish  and  prayer  of  him  who  is,  my  dear 
Philip, 

Unutterably  yours, 

ALEX.  MACKRABT. 


LETTER  V. 

Philadelphia :  9th  March  1768. 

Dear  Sister, — You  are  very  kind  in  telling  me  you  will  in 
general  look  upon  my  letters  to  my  brother  as  answers  to  those 
I  may  also  have  the  pleasure  of  receiving  from  you.  If  a 
number  of  my  letters  to  you  were  wanting  to  give  proof  of  my 
affection,  I  should  write  often ;  but  I  hope  that  test  is  not 
necessary.  I  would  wish  to  entertain  you,  if  possible,  with  my 
correspondence  ;  but  at  this  place  and  at  this  season  there  is  so 
little  of  anything  amusing,  that  it  is  with  the  utmost  difficulty 
(or,  as  Philip  says,  with  '  mere  pulling  and  bawling ')  I  can 
furnish  out  matter  for  one  letter ;  and,  upon  my  modesty,  I 
have  two  more  to  write  by  the  Spanish  pacquet  after  I  finish 
this.  I  have  your  kind  favours  of  the  12th  September  and  12th 
December,  which  came  to  my  hands  about  the  same  periods  as 
if  they  had  been  dispatched  on  the  12th  November  and  Decem- 
ber, such  is  the  uncertainty  of  winds  and  waves.  I  am  charmed 
with  your  accounts  of  the  three  dear  little  girls.  I  know  you 
are  quite  impartial.  I  often  think  of  them  ;  if  they  continue  to 
improve,  and  at  the  same  rate,  it  will  be  unsafe  to  be  acquainted 
with  them  some  years  hence.  Should  you  know  (which  I  hope 
you  do  not)  any  ladies  who  wish  to  be  married  and  are  not  so, 


424  APPENDIX. 

advise  them  to  come  to  this  country,  where  they  depend  upon 
getting  husbands  immediately.  The  good  people  are  marrying 
one  another  as  if  they  had  not  a  day  to  live.  I  alledge  it  to  a 
plot  against  the  State,  and  that  the  ladies  (who  are  all  politicians 
in  America)  are  determined  to  raise  young  rebels  to  fight  against 
old  England.  , 

I  am  very  much  obliged  to  all  my  friends  for  their  kind 
enquiries.  If  there  should  by  chance  two  or  three  people 
beside  our  own  family  who  yet  remember  me,  and  wish  to  hear 
of  my  welfare,  please  to  tell  them  I  am  alive  and  hearty,  fat 
and  well  liking ;  and  tho'  I  never  can  see  England  but  in  my 
dreams,  I  often  think  of  it  with  pleasure. 

I  thank  you  much  for  executing  my  little  commission  at 
Christmas.  All  my  letters  from  home,  tho'  in  general  pleasing, 
have  some  little  alloy  of  pain.  Colds  and  swelled  legs  or 
faces,  rheumatic  twitches,  and  so  forth ;  these  things  must  be. 
I  have  my  little  grumblings  sometimes ;  but  have  I  not  at  the 
same  time  great,  very  great,  cause  to  be  thankful  for  many 
blessings  I  enjoy,  which  in  the  ordinary  course  of  things  I  had 
no  title  to  expect  at  this  time  ?  We  are  all,  thro'  the  divine 
goodness,  secure  to  be  as  blessed  as  we  can  fear.  I  think  to  copy 
this  into  my  Fulham  letter.  I  don't  know  that  I  have  philo- 
sophised so  much  of  a  long  time. 

Pray  (as  old  Polonius  says)  when  you  *  was  young  and  in 
love,'  did  you  approve  of  serenading  ?  It  is  extremely  in  vogue 
here  now.  The  manner  is  as  follows :  We,  with  four  or  five 
young  officers  of  the  regiment  in  barracks,  drink  as  hard  as  we 
can,  to  keep  out  the  cold,  and  about  midnight  sally  forth, 
attended  by  the  band,  which  consists  of  ten  musicians,  horns, 
clarinets,  hautboys,  and  bassoons,  march  thro'  the  streets,  and 
play  under  the  window  of  any  lady  you  choose  to  distinguish ; 
which  they  esteem  a  high  compliment.  In  about  an  hour  all 
the  blackguards  who  sleep  upon  bulks,  with  gentlemen  of  a 
certain  profession  who  sweeten  the  streets  at  night,  are  col- 
lected round,  drawn  by  that  charm  which  '  soothes  a  savage 
breast,'  and  altogether  make  it  extremely  agreeable  in  a  fine 
frosty  morning.  I  have  been  out  twice,  and  only  once  got 
a  violent  cold  by  it.  I  sometimes  get  into  parties  of  whist 
at  night,  and  was  very  successful  at  first — had  got  about  ten 
guineas  of  winning;  but  I  am  now  pretty  near  even  again. 
We  have  no  plays  or  public  diversions  of  any  kind ;  not  so 


APPENDIX.  425 

much  as  a  walk  for  the  ladies,  that  there  is  no  opportunity 
of  seeing  them  but  at  church,  or  their  own  houses,  or  once 
a  fortnight  at  the  assembly.  I  have  been  to  some  of  their 
assemblies,  and  have  danced  once  with  a  charming  girl,  a 
cousin  of  yours ;  but  you  never  saw  her,  nor  in  all  likelihood 
ever  will.  I  shall  therefore  only  tell  you  I  was  very  happy, 
and  very  much  envied.  This  is  not  the  season  to  get  furs  from 
the  Indian  country,  and  when  they  do  come  I  don't  know 
if  there  are  any  fit  for  ladies'  wear ;  but  I  am  determined 
at  some  time  or  other  to  send  you  something  to  remember  me 
by,  if  it  should  even  be  a  bear,  as  O'Brien  did  to  your  friend 
Foote. 

When  you  see  Mr.  Fitzpatrick,  Koberts,  Marsh,  or  Grrainer, 
give  my  love  to  them.  I  would  send  it  by  Philippe's  letter,  but 
I  knew  he  would  drop  it  out  and  forget  to  deliver  it ;  and  please 
to  remember  always  that  you  can  hardly  think  of  anybody  who 
loves  you  more  warmly  and  sincerely  than  does, 

My  dearest  Betsy, 

To  Mrs.  Francis.  ALEX.  MACKRABY. 


LETTER  VI. 

New  York:  4th  June  1768. 

Dear  Brother, — I  did  not  write  you  by  the  last  pacquet, 
being  in  daily  expectation  of  setting  out  for  this  city,  and  con- 
sequently desirous  of  furnishing  matter  of  more  entertainment 
for  my  next  letter  by  that  change  of  place.  I  am  but  just 
arrived,  and  find  a  ship  on  the  point  of  sailing  for  London.  I 
have  therefore  little  to  say,  but  that  I  have  been  eat  up  almost 
by  mosquitoes  on  the  road.  You  must  have  felt  the  venom  of 
those  cursed  insects  in  Portugal.  I  am  so  mauled  that  I  don't 
know  if  my  legs  will  be  fit  to  appear  in  public  to-morrow ;  if 
they  should,  I  wait  upon  the  General  and  Captain  Maturin.  I 
shall  likewise  deliver  your  letter  to  Mr.  Atche  Thompson,  who 
is  a  considerable  merchant  here.  I  was  very  fortunate  in  my 
company  hither.  I  came  with  a  young  gentleman  of  one  of  the 
first  families  in  the  city,  who  has  lately  married  a  very  pretty 
agreeable  girl  in  Philadelphia ;  so  that  I  shall  get  into  parties 
both  male  and  female  while  I  continue  among  them.  We  met 
Captain  Francis  upon  the  road,  but  I  did  not  know  him.  I 


426  APPENDIX. 

hope  to  see  him  in  less  than  a  fortnight  in  Philadelphia.  His 
character  makes  me  very  desirous  of  an  acquaintance  with  him, 
and  I  am  not  upon  bad  terms  with  his  family.  This  is  an 
advantage  I  have  to  thank  you  for,  as  well  as  for  almost  every 
other  which  does  me  credit  on  this  side  of  the  water !  Your 
kind  offer  of  an  asylum  if  I  should  be,  driven  back  to  my  native 
soil  obliges  me  very  much.  I  am  truly  sensible  of  your  friend- 
ship. 

I  cannot  form  any  scheme  of  settlement  yet,  tho'  I  have 
already  perceived  my  present  engagement  will  not  open  to  any- 
thing permanent.  Perhaps  it  may  be  depended  on  for  some 
months  or  a  year  longer.  I  ana  endeavouring  to  save  a  little 
fund,  if  possible,  to  ramble  upon  ;  for  I  am  determined  not  to 
return  to  England  speedily — at  least  while  America  or  the  West 
Indies  promise  any  feasible  scheme.  I  know  you  sympathise 
with  me  in  all  my  ups  and  downs ;  you  shall  always  be  made 
acquainted  with  my  plans. 

The  devil  take  my  bank-note,  and  the  man  who  picked  it  up ! 
I  wish  he  was  bitten  all  over  with  mosquitoes,  and  that  I  had 
the  scratching  of  him  !  You  will  certainly  be  right  in  making 
a  purchase  of  lands  in  America,  and  no  time  so  proper  as  the 
present.  They  are  to  be  had  at  a  lower  rate  now  than  could  have 
been  at  any  period  for  years  past,  owing  to  the  extreme  scarcity 
of  money.  Your  coz.  the  Captain,  I  dare  say,  is  a  good  judge 
of  situations.  I  wait  impatiently  for  those  pamphlets  of  Harris 
and  Rutherford.  Pray  how  do  people  manage  that  affair  of 
duels  ?  I  have  read  of  five  hundred,  and  I  think,  except  that 
of  John  Wilkes's,  cannot  recollect  many  that  were  attended  with 
bloodshed.  Vraiment,  c'est  tres  comnwde  ! 

So  Master  Wilkes  has  got  in  at  last.  I  suppose  he  has  not 
obtained  pardon ;  you  would  have  mentioned  it  if  he  had. 

I  said  before  I  am  but  just  arrived  here.      This 

is   a  better   place  for  company  and  amusements  than  Phil- 
adelphia ;  more  gay  and  lively.  I  have  already  seen  some  pretty  , 
women. 

You  may  tell  my  sister  that  I  get  acquainted  with  families, 
and  drink  tea,  and  play  at  cards ;  and  go  about  to  assemblies 
dancing  minuets.  I  shall  hardly  get  any  dancing  here.  It  is 
growing  very  hot,  and  Sir  Harry  Moore  is  gone  back  into 
the  country ;  they  say  land  jobbing.  I  am  stunned  with  the 


APPENDIX.  427 

firing  of  guns  and  crackers,  on  account  of  the  King's  birthday  ; 
all  the  town  illuminated.  The  General  makes  all  the  officers 
in  the  town  drunk  at  his  house.  I  have  nothing  new,  but  hope 
to  have  a  great  deal  more  to  write  to  you  when  I  have  seen 
something  of  New  York. 

A  Mr.  Andrew  Seton,  who  was  a  bankrupt  about  twelve 
months  ago  in  London  (my  sister  knows  his  wife),  is  just 
arrived  here  with  his  family — six  children ;  and  has  already 
purchased  an  estate,  to  cost  him  about  five  thousand  pounds. 
Is  not  that  worth  breaking  for  ?  This  is  a  fact. 

We  expect  the  pacquet  every  hour.  I  shall  write  to  you  by 
her,  and  shall  there  address  (as  I  will  always  in  future)  to  you 
under  the  Secretary  of  War's  cover.  My  having  paid  postage 
for  the  first  I  sent  led  me  into  a  foolish  mistake,  and  made  me 
apprehend  that  it  would  be  charged  all  the  way;  but  I  now  find 
it  is  only  between  Philadelphia  and  New  York.  Farewell  then 
for  the  present,  my  dearest  friend. 

I  am  ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

A.  MACKRABT. 

Love  to  my  sister  and  the  pickyninnies. 

I  shall  address  this  as  formerly,  as  it  goes  by  a  private  ship. 
Those  gentry  have  sometimes  the  politesse  to  open  letters  which 
they  think  may  contain  public  business. 


LETTER  VII. 

New  York :  18th  June  1768. 

My  dear  Philip, — I  wrote  to  you  eight  days  since  by  the 
'  York,'  Capt.  Lawrence.  I  have  just  now  received  yours  of  16 
April  by  the  pacquet.  I  am  upon  the  point  of  returning  to 
Philadelphia,  and  shall  set  out  to-morrow.  The  novelty  of  this 
place  made  me  think  it  more  enchanting  at  first  than  I  now 
find  it.  As  to  its  situation,  it  affords  nothing  extraordinary  but 
the  North  river,  which  is  navigable  for  large  sloops  170  miles 
up  the  country,  and  by  its  junction  with  smaller  streams,  opens 
a  vast  communication  with  the  interior  parts.  This,  you  know, 
is  a  great  advantage,  and  makes  lands  above  much  more  valu- 
able. Our  river  at  Philadelphia,  tho'  a  mile  broad  at  the  ycit 


428  APPENDIX. 

is  not  navigable  more  than  thirty  miles  above  it.  With  regard  to 
the  people,  manner,  living,  and  conversation,  one  day  shows  you 
as  much  as  fifty.  Here  are  no  diversions  at  all  at  present.  The 
plays  are  over,  and  I  told  you  some  time  since  the  cause  of 
there  being  no  assemblies.  I  have  gone  dining  about  from 
house  to  house,  but  meet  with  the  same  dull  round  of  topics 
everywhere — lands,  Madeira  wine,  fishing  parties,  or  politics, 
make  up  the  sum  total.  They  have  a  vile  practice  here,  which 
is  peculiar  to  this  city  :  I  mean  that  of  .playing  at  back-gammon 
(a  noise  I  detest),  which  is  going  forward  in  the  public  coffee- 
houses from  morning  till  night,  frequently  ten  or  a  dozen  tables 
at  a  time.  I  think  a  single  man  in  America  is  one  of  the  most 
wretched  beings  I  can  conceive ;  yet  our  friend  Atchy  Thompson 
is  still  a  batchelor ;  but  he  talks  of  going  to  Europe  immediately 
upon  the  return  of  his  partner,  I  believe  to  settle  in  Ireland  or 
London.  He  is  a  good-natured  youth,  and  I  believe  in  a  very 
good  way ;  at  least  I  can  answer  for  his  having  a  good  house 
and  good  wine. 

I  waited  on  General  Gage,  and  had  the  honour  of  some  con- 
versation with  him.  It  was  lucky  I  went  at  the  time  I  did,  as 
he  has  been  out  of  town  almost  ever  since.  So  has  Captain 
Maturin  ;  but  he  paid  me  a  visit  this  morning,  and  with  the 
extremest  politeness  told  me  how  much  he  was  concerned  at 
my  departure  ;  that  he  hoped  to  have  had  the  honour  of  seeing 
me  at  his  house ;  that  he  will  be  always  proud  of  an  opportunity 
to  show  any  civilities  to  Mr.  Francis's  friends,  and  that  I  may 
depend  upon  his  forwarding  my  letters  constantly.  In  fact  he 
is  a  very  agreable  well-bred  man,  and  his  lady  a  pretty  woman. 
I  wish  I  could  have  been  better  acquainted  with  him,  which  I 
certainly  will  whenever  I  come  to  New  York  again.  By  the  by, 
you  tell  me  in  your  last  that  you  had  inclosed  a  letter  from 
him,  which  I  did  not  receive.  I  only  mentioned  this  to  be 
beforehand  with  your  Infallibility  ship,  as  it  is  a  thousand  to 
one  I  make  some  greater  neglect  before  our  correspondence  is 
many  months  older. 

We  have  just  now  got  an  account  of  Wilkes's  surrender  on  the 
20th  April.  Who  will  say  that  British  liberty  is  at  the  last 
gasp,  when  our  publick  streets  at  noon  day  give  such  evident 
and  glaring  proofs  of  the  contrary  ?  I  am  still  anxious  to  know 
what  will  be  the  end  of  it. 

The  overthrow  of  your  carriage  alarmed  me  much.     Poor 


APPENDIX.  429 

Betsy  must  have  been  sadly  frighted!  I  hope  you  will  at 
least  get  a  new  coach  as  damages  from  the  waggoner. 

The  old  gentleman  is  a  perfect  dragon  at  letter-writing,  and  I 
assure  you  uses  very  good  paper.  By  my  soul,  it  gives  me 
extreme  pleasure  to  find  they  are  so  happy.  If  the  Chr.  con- 
tinue their  inclination,  and  I  my  abilities,  I  trust  they  will  be 
long  so.  I  live  a  tolerably  jolly  life,  but  I  see  no  prospect  of 
getting  rich.  Plague  take  this  subordination.  I  want  to  make 
a  ramble  about  200  miles  up  the  country.  Sir  Wm.  Johnson 
holds  a  congress  of  a  vast  number  of  Indian  tribes.  Governor 
is  going  up  thither,  and  a  great  many  strangers.  I  have  a 
violent  curiosity  to  see  something  of  that  nature,  but  have  had 
no  opportunity  yet.  I  must  and  will  save  a  little  money  for 
amusements  by  and  by.  Heavens !  what  an  immense  country 
this  is !  If  I  should  meet  with  two  or  three  disappointments, 
I  don't  know  but  I  may  set  down  upon  a  tract  and  plant 
cabbages. 

I  have  been  writing  to  Mr.  Alderman  Kirkman,  and  recom- 
mending a  purchase  of  lands  to  him.  That  youth  begins  early 
with  his  honours  in  the  City.  Pray  does  he  play  at  whist  at 
the  Crown  now?  I  rejoice  in  Oliver's  recovery,  and  I  am 
determined  to  write  him  so. 

15th  June. 

I  am  here  still.  There  never  was  such  uncomfortable  weather. 
It  has  blown  a  hurricane  these  two  days,  and  rained  constantly. 
I  am  prevented  crossing  the  ferry  to  set  out  for  Philadelphia. 
So  uncertain  is  this  climate,  that  in  the  morning  you  may  wear 
a  suit  of  cloth  cloathes,  at  noon  sit  in  your  shirt1  with  windows 
and  doors  open,  and  in  the  evening  of  the  same  day  wrap 
yourself  up  in  a  fur  cloak.  I  wish  I  had  one  here  now. 

Among  the  many  disputes  in  this  and  the  more  northern 
parts  of  America,  the  religious  are  not  the  least.  The  zealous 
members  of  the  Church  of  England  are  full  of  apprehensions  at 
the  great  and  growing  power  of  the  Presbyterians.  Don't 
imagine  that  I  mean  in  any  matters  that  regard  salvation ;  that 
affair  might  have  been  left  to  shift  for  itself  at  doomsday.  The 
alarm  was  taken  at  an  election  lately ;  since  which  the  parties 
have  raged  with  tolerable  violence.  The  Church  people,  con- 
scious that  the  Presbyterians,  who  have  the  appointment  of 
their  own  ministers,  must  always  outnumber  them,  are  desirous 


430  APPENDIX. 

of  having  some  person  here  vested  with  the  power  of  ordination. 
— but  they  don't  like  a  bishop,  nor  ecclesiastical  courts ,  in 
short,  they  don't  know  what  they  want.  You  remember  Dean 
Swift  was  to  have  been  made  Bishop  of  Virginia.  The  Presby- 
terians should  not  be  allowed  to  grow  too  great.  They  are  all 
of  republican  principles.  The  Bostonians  are  Presbyterians. 
Now  I  talk  of  Church  matters,  pray  where  is  Kosenhagen?1  I 
am  fearful  he  is  very  inattentive  to  his  flock  in  Florida.  We 
just  now  hear  that  Major  Kogers  has  been  playing  the  devil  at 
his  fort,  and  that  he  had  a  scheme  of  seizing  another,  and  giving 
up  both  to  the  Indians  to  plunder.  It  is  said  he  is  coming 
down  here  in  irons. 

I  must  have  now  done.  I  am  afraid  all  this  nonsense  will 
tire  you,  but  'tis  the  best  matter  I  have.  So  as  you  can  get  no 
more  of  the  cat  than  the  skin,  you  must  take  the  will  for  the 
deed.  I  am  just  setting  out  for  Philadelphia  upon  a  hired 
horse,  full  speed. 

So  farewell  at  once,  my  dear  brother. 

I  am  most  affectionately  and  cordially  yours, 

A.  MACKRABY. 

Positively  I  must  give  you  the  trouble  of  the  inclosed  for  my 
father.  I  send  him  a  bill  in  it,  which  will  make  postage  come 
high  by  the  pacquet. 


LETTER  VIII. 

Philadelphia  :  17th  August  1768. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  wrote  you  by  the  last  pacquet,  which 
dispatched  from  New  York  in  June,  and  the  May  pacquet  is 
but  just  arrived  here.  It  brings  me  your  favour  of  14th  May. 
We  had  not  received  any  accounts  from  England  for  so  long  a 
time,  that  we  began  to  think  the  winds  and  waves  had  combined 
to  compleat  the  separation  that  politics  had  begun.  You  out-do 
us  altogether  in  riots  and  combinations.  God  knows  how  it 
will  end.  We  have  nothing  new  in  this  quarter,  not  even  in 
public  matters.  Moderation  is  our  system. 

I  am  very  fond  of  your  cousin  the  Colonel.  We  have  been 
taking  a  ramble  together  sixty  miles  up  the  country — the  first 

1  Rosenhagen  was  at  this  time  a  chaplain  in  the  army. 


APPENDIX.  431 

inland  view  I  have  had  of  it.  Our  chief  object  was  Bethlehem 
(not  of  Judea,  but),  a  settlement  of  Moravians,  about  a  thousand 
in  number.  This  little  society  live  together  upon  a  plan  very 
like  that  of  the  Jesuits  in  Paraguay :  a  religious  government. 
They  have  among  them  mechanics  and  manufacturers  of  every 
kind  necessary  for  their  own  accommodation,  and,  I  believe, 
the  most  compleat  farm  in  America.  They  have  their  own 
schools,  which  are  not  contemptible,  their  own  language,  own 
customs  and  religion.  Music,  in  which  they  are  almost  all 
proficients,  is  an  article  of  their  religion.  So  far,  state  is  a 
natural  one ;  but  the  poor  devils  have  no  property  ;  the  labours 
of  each  individual  being  dedicated  to  the  general  advantage  of 
the  community,  from  whose  stock  each  has  his  portion  of 
necessary  comforts  (not  even  excepting  their  wives)  allotted 
according  to  the  pleasure  of  the  directing  fathers.  The  children 
are  the  children  of  the  State.  I  need  not  tell  you  they  are 
not  free  agents,  as  you  know  well  enough  it  is  nothing  but 
property  can  make  us  so. 

I  thank  you  for  your  care  and  punctuality  in  the  execution 
of  my  commissions.  I  wish  I  may  see  the  books  this  summer. 
Jolly  writes  me  the  ships  are  detained  in  the  river  by  this 
insurrection  of  the  sailors,  and  that  business  of  every  kind  is  in 
a  manner  at  a  stand.  You  are  a  sort  of  physician  to  the  State, 
and  are  more  engaged  in  proportion  as  its  disorders  increase.  I 
suppose  you  will  be  putting  us  Americans  to  our  purgations 
shortly. 

This  is  a  very  capital  billiard  match  you  write  me  of.  I  am 
anxious  to  know  the  event,  and  I'll  lay  a  wager  you'll  have 
forgotten  by  the  time  you  write  me  again.  I  have  just  sub- 
scribed to  a  billiard  table,  tho'  I  never  play.  I  like  the  party 
so  well  that  I  don't  grudge  my  40s.  Forty  shillings  Philadelphia 
currency  is  about  twenty-four  sterling.  This  currency  matter 
is  a  great  convenience,  for  if  I  spend  nominally  my  whole 
appointment,  I  lay  by  above  sixty  pounds  in  every  hundred. 
This  is  a  speculation,  you'll  please  to  observe ;  the  fact  is,  I  lay 
by  very  little.  Plague  take  it,  I  shall  never  be  rich. 

Colonel  and  I  are  to  have  some  talk  about  lands,  and  are  both 
to  write  to  you  upon  the  subject.  I  believe  he  will  purchase  as 
soon  as  he  can  meet  with  a  spot  to  his  mind.  Poor  fellow,  he 
has  had  a  terrible  fit  of  the  rheumatism,  but  is  now  better. 

I  am  never  sick,  and  but  seldom  sorry.     Farewell,  my  friend. 


432  APPENDIX. 

Give  my  best  love  to  my  sister,  and  teach  your  children  to 
remember  me  in  their  prayers. 
So  God  bless  you  all,  says 

Your  faithful 

A.  MACKRABY. 


LETTER  IX. 

Philadelphia  :  2nd  January  1769. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  have  received  yours  of  the  13th  of 
August,  and  since  that  the  Dissensions  of  Coleman  and  Harris — 
'where  Gods  meet  Gods  and  jostle  in  the  dark' — and  I  have 
wrote  both  to  you  and  your  wife  within  these  two  months;  and 
pray,  Mr.  Francis,  why  an't  I  to  have  a  letter  by  this  pacquet 
as  well  as  the  Colonel  ?  Why,  sir,  I  have  been  in  the  company 
of  the  Duchess  of  Gordon  as  well  as  he, — and  I  supped  t'other 
night  with  Colonel  Scott,  who  is  worth  three  hundred  thousand 
pounds ;  and  more,  sir,  if  he  loves  you  half  so  well  as  I  do — 
why  then — the  devil  fetch  me. 

I  long  to  know  if  my  sister  is  brought  to  bed,  and  I  long  to 
hear  that  she  has  got  a  son. 

I  am  quite  tired  of  plodding  for  ever  in  this  confounded 
Quaker  town.  Plague  take  it !  I  work  without  getting  rich. 
You  can  never  have  had  a  party  in  a  sleigh  or  sledge,  for  I  re- 
collect it  was  summer  when  you  were  in  Holland.  I  had  a  very 
clever  one  a  few  days  ago.  Seven  sleighs  with  two  ladies  and 
two  men  in  each,  preceded  by  fidlers  on  horseback,  set  out  to- 
gether upon  a  snow  of  about  a  foot  deep  on  the  roads,  to  a 
public-house  a  few  miles  from  town,  where  we  danced,  sung, 
and  romped  and  eat  and  drank,  and  kicked  away  care  from 
morning  till  night,  and  finished  our  frolic  in  two  or  three  side 
boxes  at  the  play. 

You  can  have  no  idea  of  the  state  of  the  pulse  seated  with 
pretty  women,  mid  deep  in  straw,  your  body  armed  with  furs 
and  flannell,  clear  air,  bright  sunshine,  and  spotless  sky,  horses 
galloping,  every  feeling  turned  to  joy  and  jollity!  I  wished 
heartily  to  have  had  you  amongst  us,  and  so  did  cousin  Patty. 

The  family  here  are  in  daily  expectation  of  Mr.  Tench  Francis's 
arrival.  I  fancy  he  will  come  in  good  spirits,  for  from  what  I 
hear  his  affairs  have  turned  out  more  fortunately  than  was 
expected. 


APPENDIX.  433 

I  suppose  you  know  the  Colonel  Scott  who  is  here ;  his  regi- 
ment is  in  this  country.  He  is  reported  to  be  extremely  rich — 
no  bad  introduction,  let  me  tell  you,  anywhere  1  But  he  is,  be- 
sides that,  a  frank  agreeable  man.  He  is  much  esteemed  in  this 
place,  where  he  has  been  two  or  three  weeks,  and  is  setting  out 
for  a  tour  through  all  the  southern  provinces.  But  what  is  all 
this  to  you  ?  you'll  say. 

Our  friends  at  Boston  have  been  kicking  against  the  pricks, 
but  seem  pretty  quiet  now.  If  you  send  any  troops  here,  do 
set  them  about  making  new  roads,  for  I  can't  get  a  ride  since 
the  snow  left  us,  if  it  were  for  my  life;  and  I  am  all  head-aches, 
and  rheumatisms,  and  cold.  See  what  stupid  work  I  have  made 
of  this  letter,  writing  things  twice  over,  and  scratching  out,  and 
the  Lord  knows  what.  But  charge  to  the  account  of  indisposi- 
tion and  fatigue,  and  not  to 

Your  ever  faithful  and  affectionate 

ALEX.  MACKRABY. 

Love  to  sister  and  little  ones. 


LETTER  X. 

Philadelphia :  28th  January  1769. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  wrote  you  by  the  last  pacquet,  and  now 
have  yours  of  the  10th  Sept.,  and  5th  Oct.,  and  2nd  Novemb. 
before  me.  I  give  you  joy  of  your  son.  I  don't  know  how  you 
feel  on  the  occasion,  but  methinks  I  seem  a  greater  man  now 
I  am  uncle  to  a  nephew.  I  am  informed  your  daughters  are 
most  accomplished  young  women.  My  father  writes  me  he  is 
their  tutor  for  languages,  and  takes  especial  care  to  make  them 
speak  plain  and  distinctly.  I  don't  doubt  but  like  poor  la 
Fleur,  he  has  l  toutes  les  dispositions  qu'on  peut  avoir ; — mais — ' 
in  short,  I  hope  he  will  have  better  success  with  them  than  he 
has  had  with  his  son. 

I  have  got  a  little  box  which  shall  be  sent  you  by  a  ship  from 
this  port,  in  about  a  week.  It  contains  something  from  the 
Colonel — I  don't  know  what.  That  cousin  of  yours  and  I  have 
had  some  converse  about  lands.  He  is  managing  his  own 
matters  in  that  way,  and  has  promised  to  take  care  of  a  thousand 
acres  for  you.  I  have  on  my  part  engaged  that  the  money  for 
the  charge,  whatever  they  are,  shall  be  forthcoming 

VOL.  I.  F  F 


434  APPENDIX. 

LETTER  XI. 

Philadelphia :  10th  August  1769. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  have  yours  by  the  May  and  June  pac- 
quets  now  before  me,  and  I  thank  you  for  your  anecdotes.  You 
seem  to  think  such  matters  of  no  great  consequence,  but  I 
assure  you  they  are.  Every  pacquet  gives  me  the  dignity  of  an 
oracle.  *  Mack,  what  do  your  letters  say  ?  You  must  have 
news  ?  and  your  intelligence  is  the  best,  &c.'  Your  ministerial 
gentry  will  not  gain  their  point  with  all  their  promises.  The 
Resolvers  are  very  steady,  and  have  newly  determined  not  to 
abate  in  the  smallest  degree  till  the  Acts  are  actually  repealed. 
By  the  by,  we  have  had  two  or  three  very  odd  occurrences  upon 
the  subject  of  importations. 

A  discontented  gentleman  made  a  purchase  of  a  Cheshire 
cheese  last  week;  and  another  malcontent  thought  to  drown 
his  resentments  in  a  hogshead  of  English  Entire  Butt.  These 
delicacies  happened  unfortunately  to  be  shipped  from  Europe 
after  the  Resolutions  on  this  side  had  transpired,  and  in  conse- 
quence Messrs,  of  the  Committee  took  the  liberty  to  interfere. 
The  purchasers  made  a  gallant  stand  in  defence  of  their  bellies, 
but  their  opposition  was  vain.  Hard  words  and  bad  names  flew 
about  in  support  of  Liberty.  They  cursed  and  swore,  kicked 
and  cuffed  and  pulled  noses  ;  but  the  catastrophe  was,  that  the 
prisoners  were  regaled  with  one  and  t'other — I  mean  the  cheese 
and  porter — qualified  with  two  dollars  worth  of  bread.  They 
have  sent  away  a  ship  loaded  with  malt  to-day.  Nobody  could 
either  buy  or  store  it. 

Mr.  Neave  and  I  are  upon  the  point  of  withdrawing  ourselves 
from  this  busy  scene,  and  retiring  for  a  few  weeks  into  the 
woods.  We  shall  quarter  ourselves  upon  your  cousin  Tubby  in 
the  course  of  our  peregrination.  You  shall  hear  by  and  by  how 
he  lives,  and  I  am  of  opinion  that  we  shall  eat  our  meat  with 
little  sauce  but  hunger.  I  shall  write  you  again  before  we  set 
out,  and  for  the  present  must  take  my  leave.  So  farewell  at  once. 

Yours  ever, 

A.  MACKRABT. 

We  are  all  panting  with  heat,  the  glass  from  92°  to  95° — and 
yet  the  mad  people  will  marry  in  spite  of  it.  I  sleep  upon  the 
floor  for  coolness,  and  almost  perish  under  the  weight  of  a  single 
bheet. 


My  dear  Brother,- 


APPENDIX.  436 

LETTER  XII. 

Philadelphia :  2nd  December  1769. 


As  the  matter  for  most  of  my  letters  generally  grows  out  of 
your  own,  you  may  expect  me  to  be  at  this  instant  as  barren  as 
you  please  of  subject;  I  shall  therefore,  for  want  of  a  better, give 
you  a  recipe  for  the  care  of  a  drunken  servant,  as  I  am  prac- 
tising it  at  present  upon  a  fellow  of  mine.  Don't  beat  them,  for 
that  I  know  does  no  good.  Lament  their  situation,  send  them 
to  bed,  and  the  next  day  begin  with  an  emetic,  the  more  nau- 
seous it  is  the  better ;  when  that  ceases  to  operate,  a  strong 
cathartic  will  generally  compleat  the  cure  and  repentance  ;  but 
in  case  of  a  relapse,  a  large  blister  between  the  shoulders  is  a 
sovereign  remedy  for  these  dram-atic  fevers.  I  hope  in  the  case 
now  before  me,  the  latter  may  be  needless.  You  can  have  no 
idea  of  the  plague  we  have  with  servants  on  this  side  the  water. 
If  you  bring  over  a  good  one  he  is  spoilt  in  a  month.  Those 
born  in  the  country  are  insolent  and  extravagant.  The  imported 
Dutch  are  to  the  last  degree  ignorant  and  awkward.  The  Irish 
(upon  which  establishment  my  gentleman  is)  are  generally 
thieves,  and  particularly  drunkards;  and  the  negroes  stupid 
and  sulky,  and  stink  damnably.  We  have  tried  them  all  round, 
and  this  is  the  sum  total  of  my  observations,  '  the  devil  take  the 
hindmost.' 

I  wrote  my  father,  by  a  merchant  ship  last  week,  a  letter  at 
least  as  long  as  this.  If  my  sister  will  oblige  so  much  as  to  in- 
form him  I  will  write  him  a  long  letter  by  the  next  pacquet, 
and  to  tell  him  the  occasion  of  my  being  prevented  writing  by 
this,  I  will  thank  her. 

My  love  to  her,  and  God  bless  you  all. 

Adieu,  my  dearest  friend.    I  am  ever  your  affectionate, 

A.  MACKEABY. 


My  dear  Friend, — 


LETTER  XIII. 

Philadelphia:  12th  December  1769. 


The  only  point  of  appearance  in  which  Maryland  differs  from 
this  province,  is,  that  there  they  have  not  any  large  towns.  The 
rivers,  and  their  navigable  branches,  are  so  numerous,  that  the 

F   F  2 


436  APPENDIX. 

gentlemen  of  that  country  live  generally  upon  their  own  plan- 
tations, and  keep  negroes  to  cultivate  tobacco  and  other  pro- 
duce. The  tobacco  season  was  just  over  when  I  went  down, 
but  I  saw  some  little  growing.  Its  appearance  when  green  is 
just  like  that  of  some  large  docks  which  grow  in  marshy  lands. 
They  plant  it  in  single  stalks,  very,  tedious  and  troublesome  in 
its  culture. 

They  are  of  late  years  getting  more  into  the  cultivation  of 
wheat.  What  do  you  think  of  one  person  having  more  than 
800  acres  in  wheat,  and  as  much  more  in  Indian  corn,  and  half 
that  quantity  besides  in  tobacco?  This  is  at  15  bushels  per 
acre,  and  5s.  per  bushel  makes  no  contemptible  income.  Let 
me  tell  you,  old  friend,  a  good  American  estate  is  a  very  good 
thing.  Were  it  not  that  the  expensive  hospitable  manner 
in  which  everybody  lives  here  (for  you  may  really  go  from 
house  to  house  for  a  month,  living  upon  delicatesses,  and 
drinking  claret  you  would  not  despise  at  the  first  tavern  in 
London) ;  and  that  their  number  of  negroes  and  equipage  serves 
as  a  mighty  counter-bal lance,  they  would  grow  immensely  rich; 
too  rich,  mon  ami,  for  your  system  of  American  politics.  No- 
thing that  I  met  with  in  Maryland  surprised  me  so  much  as  to 
see  the  regularity  and  exactness  with  which  their  inspecting 
houses,  or  public  repositories  for  tobacco,  are  conducted,  both  to 
prevent  frauds  in  ascertaining  the  duties,  and  also  for  the  con- 
venience of  individuals;  not  even  a  single  stalk  of  the  poorest 
planter,  but  he  is  accounted  with  for,  and  can  transfer  as  his 
property,  even  at  a  hundred  miles  distance.  I  was  no  less 
amazed  to  hear  that  in  a  late  year,  when  the  produce  of  the 
tobacco  colonies  was  about  80,000  hogsheads,  not  less  than 
38,000  were  the  property  of  the  merchants  in  Scotland  !  I  had 
no  idea  of  such  a  proportion. 

Tobacco  is  current  here  as  money.  Taxes  are  paid  in  it, 
wages  paid,  and  the  parsons'  stipend  collected :  301b.  weight  a 
head  for  every  one  in  a  family  above  sixteen  years  old  (ex- 
cepting white  women).  I  think  some  of  the  black  gowns  pick 
from  £500  to  £1,000  a  year  and  upwards,  without  being  too 
closely  confined  to  attending  the  cure  of  souls.  Oh !  Do  let  us 
have  a  bishop.  Our  clergy  are  quarrelling  like  dog  and  bear : 
and  I  fear  the  Presbytery  get  the  better.  (I  hate  the  Presby- 
terians since  they  made  an  honest  friend  of  mine  do  public 
penance  for  having  been  guilty  of  begetting  a  bastard,  and  the 
fellow  was  worth  upwards  of  ten  thousand  pounds.) 


APPENDIX.  437 

Colonel  Francis  dines  with  me  this  day.  He  gives  his  best 
love  to  you,  and  bids  me  tell  you  that  he  has  your  acres  in 
view,  and  hopes  they  will  soon  be  in  his  reach.  He  is  come 
down  to  stay  the  winter  among  us. 

I  care  but  little  about  politics ;  only  if  there  should  be  a 
chance  of  a  war,  it  would  give  me  some  satisfaction  to  know  it 
as  soon  as  anybody. 

Pray  what  do  think  of  Paoli  ?  C'est  un  galant  homme.  We 
annex  extraordinary  ideas  to  the  appearance  of  heroes,  as  if  they 
were  not  like  other  people. 

Adieu,  my  dearest  brother. 

I  am,  with  truest  affection,  ever  yours, 

A.  MACKBABT. 


LETTEE  XIV. 

Philadelphia :  2nd  January  1770. 

My  dear  Brother, — Your  cousin  Tub  is 

in  his  flannels  again.  He  has  had  a  severe  bout  this  time — 
ever  since  the  date  of  my  last  letter.  He  dined  with  me  that 
day,  and  has  not  been  out  since.  I  am  just  come  from  his  bed- 
side, where,  though  he  could  not  reach  out  a  finger  to  me,  he 
assures  me  he  has  had  a  signum  salutis  which  ensures  his 
speedy  recovery.  We  had  a  deal  of  chat  about  old  England  and 
your  worship.  He  is  actually  in  treaty  for  two  tracts  for  you, 
and  I  think  he  will  make  you  an  American  landowner  as  soon 
as  he  gets  about  again.  It  shall  go  hard  but  I  will  buy  ten 
guineas'  worth  of  terra  firma  before  I  leave  this  continent.  It 
will  be  as  extensive  as  some  German  principality  or  some  Scots 
Laird's  estate. 

I  know  little  of  your  political  contests  at  home,  but  I  will 
whisper  to  you  that  our  Americans  with  their  Resolutions  have 
overshot  the  mark.  They  perhaps  find  that  the  very  steps  on 
which  they  founded  their  hopes  and  expectations  of  redress 
may  prove  the  very  means  of  defeating  it.  In  short,  I  don't 
know  what  they  must  do,  if  this  session  of  Parliament  should  not 
afford  them  relief.  The  stores  are  empty ;  those  persons  who 
have  goods  lately  imported,  and  in  the  possession  of  the  com- 
mittees, are  discontented,  and  will  soon  grow  clamorous.  Rogues 
are  making  their  advantage,  and  the  Quakers  grow  cold  and 
plead  conscience.  Here  are  few  manufactures  to  supply  the 
deficiency  of  goods  from  Europe.  None  of  consequence  can 


438  APPENDIX. 

speedily  be  established,  and  at  the  same  time  here  is  a  people 
daily  increasing.  You  will  read  what  they  are  about  at  New 
York — their  meetings  and  the  subject  of  it.  It  should  seem 
that  the  spirit  which  was  lately  lulled  into  silent  expectation,  is 
about  to  flame  forth  again.  What  can  be  the  cause  of  it  ? 
Here  is  weather  to  freeze  the  blood  of  tigers.  Love  or  wine 
can  hardly  warm  me. 

How  can  it  be  that  the  longer  I  reside  in  this  climate  I  am 
the  more  affected  by  its  severities  ?  The  intense  heat  of  last 
summer  overpowered  me,  and  the  cold  we  have  already  this 
winter  seems  to  exceed  all  recollection  or  idea,  as  well  as  it 
does  all  endurance.  I  had  almost  spoiled  my  letter  with  a  lump 
of  black  ice,  which  hung  from  my  pen  just  now.  I  am  going 
to  attend  an  electrical  lecture.  We'll  try  if  that  spark  can 
touch  me,  and  if  it  does  I  will  dance  it  to  a  blaze  at  the 
assembly  at  night. 

I  am  most  truly  yours, 

A.  MACKRABIE. 


LETTER  XV. 
Macrabie  to  Francis. 

Philadelphia:  10th  March  1770. 

Dear  Brother, — You  can  have  no  idea  of  the  winter  we  have 
had.  The  navigation  of  the  river  has  been  completely  stopt — 
froze  over  in  one  night,  tho'  nearly  a  mile  broad ;  and  only  one 
hundred  miles  to  the  northward  of  us  salt-water  has  been 
frozen. 

This  is  the  first  vessel  from  our  port  for  any  part  of  England 
this  year ;  and  such  has  been  our  delay,  that  I  wrote  letters  to 
go  by  her  in  the  beginning  of  January.  I  shall  hereafter  have 
it  in  my  power  to  be  more  punctual,  and  I  will  absolutely  be 
so.  Colonel  Francis  is  down  in  Maryland.  He  was  making 
excuses  for  not  having  wrote  you  for  so  long  a  time,  and  par- 
ticularly upon  the  subject  of  the  lands,  which  I  had  depended 
wholly  upon  him  for,  as  from  his  experience  and  connections  he 
can  do  better  than  anybody.  His  inability  from  sickness  is  a 
plea  which  I  believe  we  must  admit ;  but  he  told  me  he  was 
ashamed  of  so  often  repeating  that  his  pursuit  had  been  unsuc- 
cessfull.  He  has  had  a  tract  in  view  for  a  considerable  time, 


APPENDIX.  439 

which  he  told  me  the  day  before  he  set  out  he  was  in  treaty  for, 
and  had  not  a  doubt  of  obtaining.  The  present  proprietor  sells 
through  mere  necessity.  He  (Tubby)  thinks  the  terms  so 
favourable  that  he  would  purchase  it  himself  upon  speculation, 
with  a  certainty  of  profit.  You  will  have  a  thousand  acres  of 
good  land  for  about  one  hundred  and  thirty  pounds  sterling 
money,  or  thereabouts.  It  is  near  him,  and  he  can  always  have 
his  eye  upon  it;  but  he  will  write  to  you  himself  when  he 
returns.  I  can  advance  the  money  for  it  here,  and  draw  upon 
you  for  the  value  ;  but  that  I  shall  not  do  till  you  know  the 
purchase  is  actually  made  and  you  are  regularly  advised,  that 
you  may  be  prepared.  Do,  my  dear  friend,  excuse  talking  of 
your  being  prepared  for  the  payment  of  an  hundred  and  thirty 
pounds.  I  am  grown  so  formal  and  humdrum  that  you  would 
think  me  a  piece  of  clockwork.  I  am  sure  that  to  become  a 
Quaker  would  be  a  transformation  not  at  all  more  unnatural  for 
me  than  to  become  a  beau  was  to  my  friend  Sam  Wharton  ! 
Have  you  seen  that  gallant  personage  lately  ?  They  tell  us  he 
has  got  his  grant  confirmed ;  if  so,  you  may  buy  land  on  the 
Ohio  as  cheap  as  stinking  mackerel.  'Tis  not  above  four  or  five 
hundred  miles  off;  but  what  of  that  ? 

Have  you  repealed  our  Acts  yet  ?  I  wish  you  had,  for  we 
want  goods  most  confoundedly.  I  would  giye  all  the  ready 
money  I  am  worth  to  be  here  with  a  noble  cargo  in  the  first 
vessel  that  arrives  after  the  repeal.  It  is  an  age  since  we  had 
any  politics.  This  is  too  cold  a  season  for  any  bold  stroke  on 
this  side  the  water.  They  have  only  a  Captain  Macdougall 
prisoner  at  New  York  for  libellous  productions.  He  is  to  take 
his  trial  in  about  a  month.  The  booksellers  are  publishing 
copies  of  the  trial  of  one  Zenger  at  New  York,  many  years  ago, 
for  much  such  another  affair ;  on  which  occasion  the  father  of 
Governor  Hamilton  gained  amazing  honour  by  his  pleadings  in 
defence  of  the  liberty  of  the  press.  But  Junius  is  the  Mars  of 
malcontents.  His  letter  to  the  King  is  past  all  endurance,  as 
well  as  all  compare.  The  Americans  are  under  small  obliga- 
tions to  him  for  his  representation  of  them.  I  will  do  them 
more  justice  than  he  does,  by  declaring  that  his  production  is 
not  very  favourably  received  among  them.  Who  the  devil  can 
he  be  ?  Sir  William  Draper  is  arrived  in  South  Carolina.  I 
have  read  all  that  correspondence,  and  never  before  met  with 
such  keen,  cutting  satire  ! 


440  APPENDIX. 

LETTER  XVI. 
Macrabie  to  Francis. 

Philadelphia :  24th  April  1770. 

My  dearest  Brother, — The  Ministerial  confusions  at  home 
afford  but  an  indifferent  prospect  to  America  of  their  so-wished- 
for  repeal.  In  the  meantime  they  are  lessening  their  heavy 
debt  by  an  export  of  grain  that  would  amaze  you.  Not  a  ship 
in  the  port  unengaged,  and  even  new  ones  upon  the  stocks 
contracted  for  upon  freight  before  they  are  launched.  Their 
constant  draughts  upon  England  have  lowered  exchange  near 
25  per  cent,  since  I  have  been  here.  That  difference,  my 
friend,  is  confoundedly  against  your  humble  servant,  who 
receives  his  stipend  in  sterling ;  so  it  will  be  against  you  in 
your  purchase  of  land,  which  Tubby  has  agreed  for,  and  will 
soon  complete  the  bargain.  He  is  out  of  town  at  present,  but 
threatens  you  with  a  long  letter  soon  ;  and  I  know  will  soon  be 
as  good  as  his  word.  He  has  been  greatly  taken  up  lately 
in  business,  and  I  am  happy  that  he  has  not  found  leisure  even 
to  be  sick. 

Apropos  of  lands,  you  talk  of  obtaining  a  grant ;  but  that 
cannot  be  in  this  province,  the  proprietaries  having  the  exclu- 
sive right  of  purchase  by  their  Charter.  The  same  in  Mary- 
land, the  same  in  the  Jerseys ;  but  whenever  I  pay  you  a  visit 
in  London,  we'll  talk  a  little  upon  that  subject.  The  Colonel 
may  perhaps  point  out  some  little  nook  or  other  in  the 
American  map  worthy  our  attention.  He  has  once  hinted  the 
matter  to  me  in  confidence.  He  knows  every  spot  of  the  con- 
tinent almost.  What  he  purchases  for  you  now  has  an  imme- 
diate value,  and  is  in  a  very  increasing  settlement. 

Would  you  think  that  in  a  city  with  above  twenty  thousand 
inhabitants  we  should  find  difficulty  in  collecting  twenty  native 
Englishmen  to  celebrate  St.  George's  Day  yesterday?  And  in 
that  number  there  were  some  I  had  never  spoken  to  before. 
We  should  have  had  the  Governor  at  our  head,  but  that  the 
party  was  only  proposed  two  days  before.  However,  we  met  at 
a  tavern,  stuffed  roast  beef  and  plum  pudding,  and  got  drunk, 
pour  Vhonneur  de  St.  George ;  wore  crosses,  and  finished  the 
evening  at  the  play-house,  where  we  made  the  people  all  chorus 
*  God  save  the  King '  and  '  Kule  Britannia  '  and  *  Britons  strike 


APPENDIX.  441 

home,'  &c.,  and  such  like  nonsense ;  and,  in  short,  conducted 
ourselves  with  all  the  decency  and  confusion  usual  on  such 
occasions.  My  head  aches  plaguely!  so  pray  excuse  me  till 
the  next  pacquet.  Adieu  !  In  a  fortnight  you  shall  hear  again 
from 

Your  ever  faithful 

A.  MACKRABIE. 


LETTER  XVII. 

Macrdbie  to  Francis. 

Philadelphia:  4th  May  1770. 

My  dear  Brother, — My  friend  and  your  cousin  the  Colonel 
has  given  me  the  inclosed  letter  to  forward.  He  is  just  come 
to  town  ;  and  so,  as  I  am  just  going  out  of  town,  I  shall  depend 
upon  Monsieur  Neave  for  the  conveyance.  I  fancy  we  shall 
have  a  pacquet  in  a  few  days.  I  wrote  to  you  by  the  last,  about 
ten  days  ago. 

Tubby  is  a  great  speculator,  and  as  enterprising  as  specu- 
lative. He  tells  me  he  has  hinted  some  of  his  objects  to  you. 
I  do  think  with  him  that  attention  and  industry,  assisted  with 
a  little  interest  and  a  little  money  besides,  may  do  a  great  deal 
in  prospects  in  future  on  this  side  of  the  water.  I  wish  we 
could  realise  some  of  his  projects.  It  shall  not  drop  ;  and  if  I 
should  see  you  this  summer  (which  is  far  from  improbable,  tho' 
I  only  mention  it  to  yourself),  we'll  trace  the  outlines  of  some 
plan  or  other.  I  have  industry  and  application ;  but  for  the 
other  two  ingredients,  as  little  as  you  please.  We  have  just 
now  a  report,  by  way  of  Lisbon,  of  a  repeal  of  part  of  the 
Eevenue  Act,  the  tea  only  excepted.  If  it  shall  prove  true,  I 
shall  regret  that  our  Ministry  were  not  generous  enough  to 
recommend  an  absolute  and  complete  repeal ;  tho'  it  were  even 
at  the  expense  of  the  East  India  Company.  I  don't  like  recon- 
ciliations by  halves. 

Our  gentry  here  don't  seem  to  expect  that  goods  will  be 
shipped  in  the  case  as  reported  to  us ;  tho'  it  is  well  known 
they  are  in  the  greatest  want  of  supply.  I  am  now  convinced 
that  'tis  no  easy  matter  to  establish  manufactures  in  America ; 
nor  have  I  observed  a  single  step  towards  an  attempt  either  in 
linens,  woollens,  or  silk,  except  stockings.  A  scheme  is  proposed 


442  APPENDIX. 

here  for  the  culture  of  silk,  in  consequence  of  your  offered 
bounty  at  home,  and  it  is  well  supported.  Near  a  thousand 
pound  has  been  subscribed  in  a  few  days,  and  more  could, 
I  doubt,  be  easily  raised.  The  people  of  this  city  are  far  beyond 
the  inhabitants  of  any  other  part  of  the  continent  in  public 
spirit ;  I  mean  in  that  proper  useful  spirit  of  improvement- 
moderation  in  politics.  I  may  be  deceived,  but  I  look  to  this 
as  my  field  of  action. 

Adieu,  my  dearest  friend !     You  have  my  sincerest  regards. 

Yours  ever, 

A.  MACKRABIE. 

Love  to  Betsy,  &c.  &c. 


LETTER  XVIII. 
Turbutt  Francis  to  Francis. 

Philadelphia :  4th  May  1770. 

My  dear  Cousin, — The  night  before  last  I  returned  from  the 
country,  with  your  survey  of  one  thousand  acres  or  thereabouts. 
I  make  no  doubt  but  from  my  long  silence  you  concluded  I 
had  entirely  forgot  you,  but  I  should  have  blushed  even  at  this 
distance  if  I  had  wrote  these  six  pacqnets  past,  that  I  would 
get  the  land,  at  the  same  time  not  able  to  give  you  any  certainty 
of  it.  I  determined  not  to  give  one  line  until  I  either  got  the 
matter  or  gave  it  over.  I  now  have  it,  and  in  a  few  months 
will  you;  your  patent  under  Mr.  Penn  and  a  draught  of  the  land, 
which  is  as  good  (as  the  saying  is)  as  ever  a  crow  flew  over ;  so 
much  for  that, — no,  one  thing  more,  it  will  cost  you  one  hundred 
and  twenty-five  or  thirty  guineas. 

I  have  a  plan  which,  with  your  assistance  and  some  of  your 
friends  over  the  water,  will  in  all  probability  hand  the  name  of 
Francis  to  the  future  world  with  dignity  and  property :  it's  no 
less  than  a  part  of  a  province,  which  I  have  reason  to  believe 
might  be  bought  of  the  Indians  for  two  or  three,  at  most, 
thousand  guineas,  provided  we  could  obtain  the  Crown's  right 
to  make  a  fair  purchase ;  it's  a  matter  worth  attention,  and  I 
make  no  doubt  you  have  as  much  anxiety  for  the  future  rank 
of  your  children  as  any  fond  father  can  have ;  the  purchase  will 
be  very  extensive,  and  a  prodigious  fine  country.  If  you  can  get 
Lewis  Evans'  map  of  the  Colonies,  find  out  Fort  Pitt,  then  go 


APPENDIX.  443 

down  the  Ohio  on  the  west  side  until  you  come  to  a  river 
emptying  into  the  Ohio,  you  will  find  its  name  to  be  Scioto, 
and  higher  up  the  same  river  you  will  find  the  Loiuer  Shawanee 
Town.  The  beginning  of  this  purchase  will  be  at  the  mouth  of 
the  Scioto  river,  and  down  the  Ohio  until  you  come  to  the 
Wabash,  which  you  will  find  on  the  west  side  of  the  Ohio, 
bounded  by  the  Wabash  on  the  south,  on  the  Ohio  by  the  east, 
and  Scioto  on  the  north,  and  our  western  line  must  be  run.  Now 
if  you  take  in  two  or  three  of  the  right  sort  of  men,  who  will 
obtain  the  royal  grant,  and  who  will  also  advance  some  money 
to  make  the  essay,  which  may  require  about  two  hundred 
guineas,  there  is  two  of  us  here  who  will  go  to  that  country, 
and  see  what  can  be  done ;  there  is  but  one  gentleman  who 
will  go  with  me,  that  I  am  desirous  to  be  concerned  in  this 
country,  and  the  thing  cannot  well  be  done  without  him :  so  do 
you  take  in  as  many  as  you  think  necessary  to  carry  on  the 
plan,  and  those  that  will  carry  it  into  immediate  execution;  do 
think  seriously  of  it,  and  let  me  know  your  sentiments,  and  who 
you  intend  to  take  in,  by  the  next  pacquet.  If  you  can  obtain 
for  us  too  the  carrying  place  of  Niagara  with  the  lands  joining 
it,  and  a  grant  of  the  Salt  Lake,  and  the  land  for  one  mile 
around  it  in  the  Onondago  country,  it  will  be  a  great  thing. 
You  may  push  that  matter  yourself,  and  the  sooner  the  better, 
but  be  as  silent  as  the  grave  with  every  man,  but  these  with  whom 
your  business  lays,  for  the  value  of  those  two  places  are  so  well 
known  by  every  man  who  has  been  in  America,  that  envy  would 
start  up  and  perhaps  overset  you.  By  all  means  if  you  can,  get 
absolute  grants,  not  an  order  to  the  Ofovernour  of  New  York,  in 
whose  province  those  two  last  places  lay. 

I  have  not  heard  anything  lately  about  my  joining  the  regi- 
ment. I  wish  you  could  lay  the  matter  out,  so  as  to  get  me  a 
company  in  any  regiment.  You  certainly  have  opportunities  of 
obtaining  a  favor  of  that  kind.  I  could  then  either  join  the 
regiment  or  go  out  upon  half  pay,  my  rank  would  be  going  on, 
and  in  case  of  war,  if  I  was  not  better  fixed,  might  go  into  the 
army  with  greater  advantage  to  what  I  can  as  lieutenant.  Do 
think  of  me,  tho'  three  thousand  miles  from  you.  Me.  just 
this  moment  left  me,  he  is  going  out  of  town. 

Eemember  me  to  Mrs.  Francis,  and  believe  me  to  be  affec- 
tionately yours, 

TURBUTT  FEANCIS. 


444  APPENDIX. 

LETTER  XIX. 

Philadelphia :  9th  June  1770. 

My  dear  Brother, — You  are  not  only  one  of  the  most  regular 
but  one  of  the  kindest  of  correspondents.  I  have  absolutely  three 
of  your  letters  of  different  dates  in  March.  April  and  May,  I 
foretell,  will  furnish  out  one  pacquet,  for  I  am  informed  that  the 
vessel  coming  out  with  the  mail  for  the  former  month  sprung  a 
leak  and  put  back  to  refit. 

So  Monsr.  Wilkes  is  again  a  free  man.  A  gentleman  who 
left  London  just  at  the  time  of  his  enlargement,  tells  me  that 
he  had  formed  some  extraordinary  resolutions  with  regard  to  the 
manner  of  claiming  his  seat  in  the  House  of  Commons.  As  a 
patriotic  hero  shines  with  the  greatest  lustre  when  under  the 
influence  of  ministerial  persecution,  I  suppose  he  will  shortly 
contrive  to  get  into  the  English  Bastille,  or  the  *  Chatelet  au 
moins.'  I  wish  you  would  all  be  quiet  at  home,  and  be  as 
unanimous  as  we  are  this  side  the  water.  Could  you  but  be 
present  at  one  of  our  meetings  here — such  speechifying !  But 
the  joke  is,  that  the  Resolutions  of  non-importation  are  supposed 
to  be  the  resolutions  of  the  merchants  who  usually  bond  dry 
goods,  and  are  in  number  not  exceeding  two  hundred,  and  at 
least  five  times  that  number  of  different  persons  have  appeared 
and  given  their  voices  at  their  several  meetings.  Indeed  their 
chief  speakers  at  almost  all  their  meetings  are  people  who  have 
no  more  concern  in  dry  goods  than  I  have  with  astronomy.  If 
these  things  must  be,  the  patriotic  public  should  indemnify  all 
the  little  shopkeepers,  many  of  whom  live  upon  the  profits  of 
their  petty  returns  from  month  to  month.  But  the  spirit  of 
liberty  breathes  on  every  act  and  on  every  occasion.  Our  play- 
bills promise  to  exhibit  to  us  the  noble  struggle  for  liberty  of 
those  renowned  Romans,  Brutus  and  Cassius,  tho'  poor  Cassius 
was  so  deficient  in  his  Latin  as  to  call  Publius  Puppy-lies, 
throughout  the  whole  piece.  A  gallant  mechanic,  whose  shop 
was  broken  open  lately,  could  not  advertise  a  reward  for  appre- 
hending the  thief,  without  pathetically  lamenting  how  hard  it 
was  for  a  man  to  part  with  his  property  without  his  consent. 
If  the  delinquent  should  be  caught,  and  prove  an  Englishman, 
he  will  be  hanged  without  benefit  of  clergy. 

I  long  to  make  one  of  your  parties  with  Dick  Tilghman,  Fitz, 
and  so  forth,  but  the  Devil  take  politics !  I'll  never  debate 


APPENDIX.  445 

with  either  you  or  Dick.  You  have  both  too  much  to  say. 
I  hold  my  tongue  here,  and  the  people  think  me  knowing — but 
snug. 

Upon  my  word,  I  expect  to  come  home  this  summer ;  nay,  if 
you'll  promise  not  to  tell  my  sister  or  mother  of  it,  I  will  even 
assure  you  I  have  no  doubt  of  it ;  but  I'll  tell  more  by  and  by. 
The  Colonel  and  you  and  I  must  do  something  together.  He  is 
projecting  in  the  country.  I  think  to  beat  up  his  quarters  iu 
a  week  or  two.  He  writes  me  to  bring  him  up  a  hundred 
pounds  on  your  account,  which  I  shall  do.  You  know  he  has 
made  a  purchase  of  acres  for  you.  He  will  have  the  deeds  and 
patent  soon,  and  then  you'll  have  no  further  trouble. 

I  have  seen  lately  some  of  the  prettiest  situations  and  finest 
lands  in  the  universe ;  but  sometimes  found  my  native  tongue 
of  little  use  to  me,  having  been  in  a  part  of  the  country  inha- 
bited almost  wholly  by  Dutch.  You  would  hardly  think  that 
in  a  country  town  in  this  province  a  jury  desired  to  have  the 
evidence  interpreted  to  them  before  two  witnesses  had  been  ex- 
amined. By  the  by,  these  Dutch  are  a  most  inhospitable  set  of 
beings.  I  lost  my  road  one  night,  and  had  liked  to  have  made 
an  '  al  fresco  '  party  of  it  till  morning,  for  the  surly  devils  would 
not  admit  me  into  their  houses,  insisting  upon  it  '  I  was  Irisher,' 
l.e..,  Irishman.  It  cost  me  at  last  two  dollars  for  a  shelter  for 
my  horses,  and  the  luxury  of  an  oak  table  for  a  couch  for 
myself.  This  happened  fortunately  at  the  close  of  a  day  on 
which  I  had  been  made  acquainted  with  a  Society  of  Religieux 
appelles  Donckers,  who  wear  long  beards,  and  sackcloth  shirts, 
and  serge  robes — who  make  a  board  their  bed,  ,and  have  a 
wooden  block  for  their  pillow — who  live  upon  hips  and  haws 
and  butter-milk,  and  get  up  at  midnight  to  sing  hallelujahs ; 
who  neither  marry  nor  are  given  in  marriage ;  who  journey  on 
foot  with  a  staff  and  a  scrip  ;  and  who  hold  money  in  contempt. 
All  this  is  true,  and  also  that  such  a  sect  have  subsisted  for 
forty  years.  It  is,  likewise,  I  prophesy,  no  less  true  that  in 
less  than  forty  years  more  they  will  shave  their  beards  and 
wash  their  faces,  and  live  like  decent  reasonable  creatures. 

Adieu,  my  dearest  Philip  !     Give  my  best  love  to  your  good 
honest  wife,  and  to  your  fat,  handsome  children,  not  forgetting 
my  nephew  whether  fat  or  lean. 
Adieu  once  more.     Yours, 

A.  MACKKABIE. 


446  APPENDIX. 

LETTER  XX. 

Philadelphia  :  20th  June  1770. 

My  dear  Brother, — I  shall  not  be  near 

your  lands,  which  I  am  sorry  for,  as  I  should  be  glad  to  have  it 
in  rny  power  to  give  yon  some  description  at  least  of  their  situa- 
tion, which  I  trust  would  afford  you  as  much  satisfaction  as  to 
have  a  sample  of  their  quality. 

I  assure  you  our  American  Wilkes  is  not  half  so  much  fol- 
lowed or  thought  of  as  he  was.  He  lias  found  out  that  the 
better  part  of  patriotism  is  discretion,  and  has  therefore  pru- 
dently given  bail,  and  now  walks  at  large.  The  true  flaming 
zeal  should  have  made  him  persist  in  still  remaining  prisoner. 
He  should  have  borne  his  chains  ever  about  him,  and  even 
like  Columbus  have  had  them  buried  in  the  same  grave  with 
him. 

The  New  York  merchants  have  now  a  majority  for  importa- 
tion after  the  1st  of  December  next.  Some  amongst  ours  begin 
to  waver.  How  fickle  a  gale  the  public  voice  is  ! 

I  believe  I  have  never  told  you  that  we  have  got  Whitfield 
among  us.  He  preaches  like  a  dragon,  curses  and  blesses  us  all 
in  a  breath,  and  tells  us  he  hopes  to  die  in  the  pulpit.  He 
abuses  the  players,  who  in  turn  advertised  to  perform  the  Minor. 
The  parsons  petitioned  the  Governor  against  it,  and  the  perfor- 
mance was  dropt.  Squintum  took  this  as  a  compromise,  and 
the  next  Sunday  recommended  a  subscription  for  the  players. 

Yours,  ever  with  the  truest  affection, 

A.  MACKRABIE. 


LETTER  XXI. 

Fort  Pitt  t1  14th  July  1770. 

My  dear  Brother,— All  this  and  much 

more  have  we  seen  in  a  few  days.  We  have  conversed  with 
Indian  chiefs  ;  and  if  our  stomachs  could  have  digested  brick- 
dust  and  bears'-grease,  might  have  been  not  unkindly  received 
by  their  squaws,  by  which  names  the  ladies  of  the  Copper  Race 
are  distinguished.  We  have  ssen  them  dancing,  and  we  have 
seen  them  drunk ;  we  have  heard  them  talk  and  have  heard 
them  sing;  and  I  believe  I  have  already  almost  enough  of 

1  Now  the  city  of  Pittsburg. 


APPENDIX.  447 

the  Shawanee  language  to  tell  you  in  good  Indian  the  names  of 
all  these  different  ceremonies.  I  have  persuaded  a  warrior 
whom  we  met  on  the  Allegany  Eiver  to  come  down  to  the  fort, 
for  me  to  draw  his  picture  ;  but  an  unlucky  accident  which  has 
just  happened — namely,  a  white  man  having  taken  the  liberty  to 
shoot  an  Indian  for  offering  certain  familiarities  to  his  wife,  and 
attempting  to  steal  his  horse — have  put  my  gentleman  out  of 
humour,  and  disappointed  me  of  my  copy.  He  was  to  have  put 
on  all  his  war  trinkets,  and  to  have  been  new  painted  on 
the  occasion.  These  Indians  are  the  greatest  coxcombs  upon 
earth !  Their  method  of  cutting  and  pulling  their  ears,  and 
boring  their  noses,  is  beyond  all  conception  ridiculous.  I  have 
seen  a  woman  with  not  less  than  six  dozen  brooches  of  silver 
upon  a  shift  more  dirty  and  ragged  than  was  ever  seen  in 
St.  Giles's ;  and  a  warrior  with  his  ears  slit  into  strips  and 
chitterlings,  and  twisted  about  with  more  silver  clasps  than  a 
Dutch  family  Bible. 

You  can  have  no  idea  of  the  delightful  situation  of  Fort  Pitt. 
It  is  built  upon  a  point  of  land  formed  by  the  confluence  of  the 
two  rivers,  Allegany  and  Monongahelah,  which  immediately 
upon  their  junction  have  the  name  of  the  Ohio.  The  Indian  lan- 
guage, which  is  the  most  figurative  in  the  universe,  is  remark- 
ably characteristic  in  the  titles  of  these  rivers.  They  are  their 
Allegro  arid  their  Penseroso.  The  former  clear  and  lively, 
flowing  over  a  bright  pebbled  bed,  and  transparent  as  christal ; 
the  Monongahelah  dull,  dark,  and  heavy,  moving  in  a  sluggish 
and  almost  imperceptible  course.  The  lofty  hills  and  endless 
woods  with  which  they  are  bordered  make  the  whole  scene 
delightfully  romantic.  I  shall  say  little  of  the  fort,  because  I 
don't  understand  military  matters;  and  besides  that,  I  had 
little  time  for  observation.  I  am  told  it  will  accommodate  more 
than  a  regiment,  but  it  has  not  at  present  fifty  men  who 
do  duty.  We  have  been  most  hospitably  and  genteely  enter- 
tained by  an  officer  whom  we  knew  last  winter  in  Philadelphia, 
and  allowing  for  the  politesse  a  la  militaire  which  obliges  us  to 
compound  for  being  un  pen  enivre  at  least  once  a  day,  we  pass 
our  time  very  agreeably.  I  am  as  well  reconciled  to  the  four 
o'clock  drum  as  if  I  had  lived  all  my  time  in  a  camp.  But  our 
week  has  just  expired,  and  we  must  return  to  our  former 
engagements,  and  cross  the  Allegany  mountains  once  more.  I 
tremble  at  the  thought  of  rocks  and  precipices ;  these  are  gentle 


448  APPENDIX. 

sufferings  compared  to  loghouses  with  earthen  floors  and  the 
intolerable  suffocation  of  bark  smoke,  which  we  are  obliged  to 
endure  every  night,  to  avoid  being  flead  alive  by  gnats  and  fleas. 
In  point  of  provision,  this  road  in  summer  beggars  all  descrip- 
tion. For  a  hundred  miles  we  are  under  the  necessity  of  carry- 
ing fodder  for  our  horses  ;  and  for  our  parts,  I  shall  never  while 
I  live  lose  the  idea  of  dried  venison  and  whiskey  toddy. 

I  think  we  cannot  be  absent  from  Philadelphia  more  than  a 
month  longer.  One  of  my  most  pleasing  prospects  is  that  upon 
my  return  I  may  hear  of  your  family  so  dear  to  me.  Adieu,  my 
dearest  Philip. 

I  am,  most  affectionately  yours, 

A.  MACKRABIE. 


LETTER  XXII. 

Philadelphia  :  9th  November  1770. 

My  dearest  Friend, — I  am  favoured  with 

yours  of  the  4th  September  by  the  pacquet,  and  have  read  to 
the  Colonel  that  part  of  it  and  of  your  former  which  relate  to 
him.  As  he  is  now  perfectly  satisfied,  and  promises  to  set  down 
and  open  his  plan  more  particularly  to  me,  for  your  farther 
information  when  we  meet,  I  may  venture  to  tell  you  that  he 
was  very  anxious  to  hear  from  you,  and  seemed  to  think 
your  silence  unkind,  till  I  changed  the  course  of  his  resentment 
by  abusing  him  like  a  dragon  for  thinking  so  of  you,  who, 
I  asserted,  had  as  much  punctuality  and  exactness  in  business 
as  all  the  Francis'  together.  But  your  letters  have  composed 
him  more  than  my  arguments.  He  loves  you,  and  of  con- 
sequence was  jealous  of  any  the  least  appearance  of  neglect. 
He  has  shewed  me  all  the  draughts  and  papers  relating  to  your 
lands.  I  know  nothing  of  their  situation,  but  have  not  a  doubt 
of  their  good  quality.  There  remains  only  now  to  get  them 
patented,  which  shall  be  done  before  I  leave  this  place.  Tubby 
thinks  his  grand  project  cannot  engage  above  fifteen  hundred 
or  two  thousand  pounds,  and  this  he  would  propose  dividing  in 
shares,  so  as  that  he  or  you  should  not  venture  too  much 
of  your  own  property  in  it ;  but  I  will  say  no  more  about  it  at 
present  till  he  lets  me  entirely  into  the  matter.  I  know  more 
than  one  person  in  London  who  I  think  would  venture  five 


APPENDIX.  449 

hundred  pounds  in  any  scheme  we  should  countenance  and 
recommend,  and  I  have  told  the  Colonel  so. 

I  have  been  introduced  to  our  new  coz.,  whom  before  I  only 
knew  by  sight ;  now  that  I  have  conversed  with  her  I  like  her 
very  well.  She  is  a  sensible,  clever  girl.  You  may  tell  Dick  I 
say  so,  and  that  I  hope  he  will  not  treat  his  aunt  with  the  less 
respect  for  being  only  eighteen  years  old. 

You  will  before  this  time  know  of  the  resolves  of  the  mer- 
chants here  to  import  every  article  except  tea.  How  absurd 
their  first  resolution  !  and  how  wretchedly  supported !  Moderate 
people  advised  from  the  first  that  their  plans  should  be  to 
decline  importing  such  articles  as  were  taxed  at  that  time,  and 
so  on,  in  case  other  articles  should  come  under  the  same  pre- 
dicament. Such  a  measure  must  have  effectually  answered  their 
end ;  whereas  now  their  rashness  in  the  first  instance,  and  want 
of  steadiness  afterwards,  has  involved  them  in  a  worse  political 
state  than  theirs  was  before  the  Stamp  Act,  besides  sowing  the 
seeds  of  jealousy  which  in  due  time  will  produce  some  pretty 
decent  scene  of  confusion. 

Adieu,  my  dear  brother. 

I  am,  with  the  truest  affection,  ever  yours, 

A.  MACKRABIE. 


LETTER  XXIII. 

Philadelphia :  January  25, 1773. 

Dear  Francis, — You  will  surely  have  finished  your  tour  by  the 
time  of  Mackrabie's  arrival  in  England,  and  therefore  I  will 
scribble  a  little,  though  in  your  last  you  forbad  me  to  write  till 
I  should  hear  from  you.  But  I  hardly  know  how  to  address 
you.  Have  the  countries  you  have  travelled  through  made  any 
alteration  in  you  ?  It  is  very  far  from  impossible.  I  have  read 
indeed  that  '  ccelum,  non  ammum,  mutant,  qui  trans  mare 
currant.'  But  I  do  not  believe  a  word  of  it.  The  change  in 
my  own  animus  gives  me  a  right  to  contradict  it.  Men  and 
things,  in  a  certain  part  of  the  world,  appear  very  different  from 
what  they  did  before  I  first  crossed  the  Atlantic.  If  England  is 
as  much  worse  than  Italy  as  it  is  better  than  America,  your 
travels  will  take  more  from  your  peace  than  they  will  add  to 
your  knowledge.  But  no  more  of  that ;  there  is  a  remedy  for 
VOL.  I.  G  Q 


450  APPENDIX. 

all  things  but  death,  as  Sancho  says.  Time  is  doing  great 
things  for  me.  I  feel  myself  Americanizing  very  fast ;  yet  even 
that  disturbs  me.  At  this  moment  I  am  shocked  to  think,  that 
if  by  any  accident  we  should  ever  meet  again,  we  probably 
should  not  look  upon  each  other  as  we  formerly  did.  It  is 
much  but  time,  business,  or  some  other  cause,  will  work  a 
strange  alteration  in  one  or  both  of  us ;  and  a  change  in  either 
would  spoil  us  for  each  other,  or  at  least  prevent  our  uniting  as 
close  as  we  once  were.  But  I  will  not  give  way  to  an  imagina- 
tion that  overwhelms  me  with  grief.  When  I  first  heard  of 
your  tour  I  longed  to  be  of  the  party,  but,  upon  consideration, 
I  rejoice  that  I  was  not  of  it ;  such  a  dissipation  of  five  or  six 
months  would  have  made  me  absolutely  unfit  for  the  life  I  am 
doomed  to  lead.  By  this  time  I  suppose  you  can  talk  as  flip- 
pantly of  the  Laocoon,  the  Venus,  the  Apollo,  the  Antinous,  as 
the  best  man  that  ever  travelled.  But  if  I  know  you,  you  had 
more  pleasure  in  treading  over  classic  ground,  and  revolving 
the  many  interesting  scenes  your  memory  must  have  brought 
full  before  you,  than  in  contemplating  the  works  of  the  greatest 
painters  and  statuaries  that  the  world  ever  produced.  I  am 
very  impatient  to  hear  from  you ;  as  you  are  now  a  man  of 
leisure  I  shall  expect  a  volume.  Pray  remember  me  to  your 
fellow-traveller.  Long  may  he  live  to  enjoy  his  fortune !  No 
man  deserves  wealth  better. 

So  his  Majesty  is  pleased  to  give  us  a  new  Secretary  of  State, 
who  talks  of  carrying  people  over  to  be  tried  in  England  for 
offences  committed  in  America !  We  all  hated  the  vastus  et 
fcedus  Hillsborough,  and  prayed  constantly  for  his  removal ; 
but  like  the  poor  frogs  in  the  fable,  when  it  is  too  late,  and  the 
stork  is  picking  us  up,  we  wish  to  have  our  log  again. 
I  am,  most  sincerely  yours, 

RICHARD  TILGHMAN. 


LETTER  XXIV. 

May  1,  1773. 

Cari  miei  Signori, — I  lament  exceedingly  his  Holiness  did 
not  give  you,  by  way  of  ricordo,  the  Decalogue  and  that  fine 
book  '  Gralateo.'  The  one  would  have  taught  you  charity  and 
the  other  politeness.  I  think  I  never  received  a  letter  so 


APPENDIX.  451 

strange,  and  so  full  of  impudence  and  abuse,  as  your  last.  You 
never  knew  but  one  man  that  was  hanged,  and  he  was  a  laivyerl 
The  inuendo  is  so  plain  that  I  can't  help  understanding  you. 
We  are  novi  homines,  are  we?  It  is  but  fair  to  take  you  down 
a  little  for  your  ignorance  in  history.  This  day  (the  first  of 
May)  is  the  birthday  of  an  American  ancestor  of  mine,  of  the 
name  of  Tammany,  who,  as  you  ought  to  have  known,  was 
canonized  about  eleven  hundred  years  ago.  I  wish  the  next 
time  you  write  to  me  you  would  make  a  regular  beginning  and 
a  regular  ending  to  your  letter.  Do  not  mistake  me ;  I  do  not 
desire  to  be  addressed  in  form,  with  a  Dear  Sir,  or  the  like,  but 
I  should  be  glad  of  some  mark  to  show  me  where  I  am  to  begin 
to  read.  The  last  line  of  your  last  letter  was  written  above  the 
first,  and  upside  down,  which  perplexed  me  cursedly.  Do,  for  the 
future,  consider  me  a  plain  man,  and  write  to  me  accordingly. 
You  tell  me  Kosenhagen  is  hand-and-glove  with  the  French, 
and  observe  that  that  sort  of  intimacy  is  not  to  be  hazarded 
with  the  Scotch.  From  the  extraordinary  marks  of  civility  you 
received  at  Rome,  and  the  affectionate  manner  in  which  you 
speak  of  the  devil's  vice-regent,  I  should  suspect,  if  I  did  not 
know  you  to  be  a  man  of  virtue,  that  you  had  hazarded  such 
intimacy  with  the  Pope  of  Rome,  or,  as  you  are  pleased  to 
style  him,  his  Holiness.  Your  distinction  between  Papist  and 
Roman  Catholic  is  ingenious  to  a  degree,  and  yet  I  do  not 
like  it,  for  I  hate  the  Pope,  and  all  distinctions  that  are  made 
in  his  favour.  I  desire  to  know  whether  the  story  of  your 
intimacy  with  the  Marquis  of  Pombal  is  a  matter  of  fact, 
or  whether  I  am  to  look  upon  it  as  the  machinery  of  your 
letter.  Great  wits  jump  alike.  If  I  did  not  know  that,  I 
should  imagine  that  you  had  stolen  and  improved  it  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  make  it  the  most  beautiful  part  of  what,  without 
flattery,  I  think  a  most  masterly  letter :  '  A  great  man  preserves 
his  dignity  when  he  wishes  to  lay  it  aside,  and  discovers  the 
force  of  his  abilities,  while  he  seems  to  make  no  use  of  them.' 
A  happier  expression  cannot  be.  Somebody,  speaking  some- 
where of  Venus,  says : 

Illam,  quicquid  agit,  quoquo  vestigia  vertit, 
Componit  furtim,  eubsequiturque  decor. 

She  could  not  divest  herself  of  her  native  grace,  even  when  she 
attempted  to  limp  awkwardly  in  ridicule  of  her  husband.     I 
VOL.  i.  *  G  a  2 


452  APPENDIX. 

have  no  objection  to  the  epigram  of  the  old  lion,  provided  you 
will  change  the  word  conception  for  translation  or  imitation. 

lie  roared  so  loud,  and  looked  so  grim, 
His  very  shadow  durst  not  follow  him. 

Vide  Pope. 

I  have  written  this  partly  out  of  revenge,  and  partly  to  show 
my  reading  and  knowledge  of  languages. 

It  is  ridiculous  enough,  but  I  swear  I  envy  you  the  six  flasks 
of  Burgundy  almost  as  much  as  your  singular  interview  with 
the  Pope.  There  is  to  me  something  glorious  in  the  idea  of 
quaffing  pontifical  Burgundy ;  but  glorious  as  it  is,  Horace  had 
a  conception  something  beyond  it : 

Mero 

Tinget  pavimentum  superbum 
Pontificutu  potiore  coenis. 

Suffer  me  to  talk,  my  good  fellow,  it  is  all  I  have  for  it.  I 
have  not  tasted  a  drop  of  good  Burgundy  since  I  left  England. 
The  want  of  that,  and  a  few  other  things,  prevents  me  being 
reconciled  to  mine  own  country.  I  begin  to  think  of  doing 
something  that  will  make  my  countrymen  tar  and  feather  me. 
Do  not  you  think,  if  I  was  to  fly  over  to  England  with  such 
marks  of  persecution  about  me,  the  Ministry  would  think  my 
sufferings  ought  to  be  rewarded  with  a  place  under  the  Govern- 
ment ?  I  think  you  once  talked  of  coming  to  live  in  this  country. 
I  should  be  very  glad  to  see  you,  but  it  must  not  be.  We  are  not 
liberal  enough.  Stay  where  you  are,  and  grow  a  great  man. 
When  you  get  into  power  remember  me.  I  shall  not  ask  great 
things;  seven  hundred  and  thirty  guineas  a  year  will  satisfy 
me.  In  the  meantime  believe  me  to  be,  with  the  most  sincere 
affection,  yours, 

RICHARD  TILGHMAN. 

Philadelphia:  May  1st,  1773. 

I  pray  to  be  held  in  remembrance  by  Mrs.  Francis  and  all 
your  family.  Is  Phil  Baggs  rich.  I  am  not  so  poor  as  to  be  in 
distress ;  but  I  should  be  glad  if  he  could  conveniently  pay  me 
about  sixty-five  guineas  that  he  owes  me.  If  he  can  pay  me, 
well — if  he  cannot,  I  am  satisfied.  He  is  an  honest  fellow,  and 
I  shall  love  him,  tho'  I  lose  by  him.  What  is  become  of 
Stephen?  He  owes  me,  not  money,  but  a  letter.  I  had 


APPENDIX.  453 

almost  forgotten  to  answer  one  part  of  your  letter.  You  are 
exceedingly  ignorant  in  supposing  we  have  no  remains  of  anti- 
quity among  us.  In  our  mountains  remote  from  the  sea  are 
found  fish  bones,  which  must  have  been  there  ever  since  Noah's 
Flood.  What  do  you  think  of  that,  you  Infidel  ? 

May  2nd. 

Some  of  our  company  got  abominably  drunk  yesterday, 
and  behaved  exactly  like  the  Lapithse,  tho'  I  dare  say  they 
did  not  know  such  creatures  ever  existed.  I  did  all  I 
could  to  keep  peace,  but  in  vain ;  I  stayed  among  them  till  I 
saw  one  man  brandish  a  bottle  at  another's  head,  and  then  I 
took  up  my  hat  and  cane  and  walked  gravely  off.  Whether 
any  mischief  was  done  I  know  not.  You  must  think  I  passed 
a  very  happy  day,  for  the  company  consisted  of  lawyers,  doctors, 
merchants,  soldiers,  printers,  surveyors,  captains  of  ships,  and 
ship  carpenters ;  and  we  had  a  band  of  music  in  the  room  that 
played  so  loud  as  to  prevent  all  conversation,  and  so  put  us  all 
upon  a  level.  Vale,  caro  mio  figlio.  If  I  can  be  of  any  service 
to  you  in  your  affairs  at  Philippi,  Macedon,  or  Ingress,  you  may 
freely  command  me.  I  would  think  nothing  of  a  trip  to 
Greece  or  England,  to  serve  my  friends. 


LETTER  XXV. 

Philadelphia :  August  30,  1773. 

Dear  Francis, — You  have  not  a  friend  in  the  world  that 
rejoices  at  your  good  fortune  more  than  I  do.  What  a  glorious 
appointment !  a  commission  to  govern  India,  with  a  salary  of 
ten  thousand  pounds  a  year !  It  makes  me  not  a  little  proud, 
that  in  the  day  of  your  elevation  you  have  not  forgotten  your 
old  friend.  Do,  Mr.  Councillor,  as  soon  as  you  get  to  Bengal, 
establish  some  office  with  a  handsome  salary,  and  send  for  me 
to  fill  it.  I  am  tired  of  my  country  and  my  profession.  There 
is  neither  honour  nor  profit  to  be  got  by  practising  the  law 
among  these  Quakers. 

Seriously  if  I  had  a  reasonable  prospect  of  making  my  fortune 
in  six  or  eight  years  in  India,  I  would  not  hesitate  to  follow  you. 
Let  me  advise  you  to  live  with  as  much  frugality  as  is  consistent 
with  your  high  station.  You  will  the  sooner  fill  your  pockets, 


454  APPENDIX. 

and  have  a  belter  chance  of  preserving  your  health.  Above  all 
things  keep  out  of  the  way  of  the  Jingawls — a  gun  that  will 
throw  a  bullet  a  hundred  and  fifty  yards  in  the  compass  of  an 
orange  is  a  terrible  thing. 

I  have  not  neglected  you  in  the  matter  of  our  family  arms  ; 
I  have  been  to  every  creature  from'  whom  there  was  the  least 
probability  of  getting  them,  without  being  able  to  get  any 
information  about  them.  They  are  not  in  this  country.  I 
cannot  find  that  my  grandfather  ever  had  them.  Your  father 
gave  a  seal,  with  the  arms  engraved  on  it,  to  one  of  my  aunts  ; 
but  that  is  lost.  Is  Mr.  Richard  Francis's  widow  living  ? 
Probably  she  can  give  some  account  of  them,  as  her  husband 
was  the  eldest  son  of  the  family.  Why  do  you  not  write  to 
Ireland  ?  The  Baggs  will  be  able  to  procure  them  for  you. 
I  find  that  your  grandfather  Francis  was  born  in  Yorkshire. 
Why  then  should  you  not  meet  with  his  arms  in  the  Herald's 
Office  in  England  ?  The  crest  we  have,  by  which  you  may 
know,  if  you  come  across  any  Francis  arms,  whether  they  are 
the  true  ones.  It  is  a  detni-lion  rampant,  with  one  of  his  paws 
upon  a  wheat-sheaf.  I  cannot  give  you  a  more  particular 
description.  I  am  not  herald  enough  to  know  anything  about 
or,  argent,  gules,  fields,  azure,  and  so  forth.  I  will  actually 
attempt  to  give  you  a  drawing  of  this  crest.  I  desire  Mr. 
Secretary  Mackrabie  will  not  laugh.  I  do  not  pretend  to  be  so 
ready  with  my  pen  as  he  is.  I  have  tried,  and  can't  hit  it  off  to 
my  mind.  So  you  must  take  a  draft  made  by  a  man  I  hired  on 
purpose.  How  did  I  behave  infamously  in  not  introducing  my 
relation  by  letter,  at  Duke  Street  ?  When  he  went  to  England 
there  was  nobody  to  introduce  him  to.  You  was  strolling  in 
Italy,  and  Mrs.  Francis  was  at  Fulham.  Mack  promised  to 
take  him  by  the  hand  and  carry  him  to  you,  and  I  suppose  did 
so.  I  am  glad  you  like  him  so  much,  as  to  think  your  not 
knowing  him  earlier  a  misfortune.  We  have  nothing  but 
ringing  of  bells  and  rejoicing.  Our  new  Governour  and  his 
Lady,  with  several  fine  heroes,  arrived  here  a  day  or  two  ago 
from  England.  But  what  care  you  ?  I  might  as  well  read  you 
a  page  of  the  history  of  Lilliput.  I  suppose  all  North  America, 
and  all  its  concerns,  appear  as  trifling  to  you  as  the  disturbances 
and  wars  in  Greece  did  to  Alexander  in  India.  I  repeat  my 
desire  that  you  will  fall  upon  some  scheme  to  make  my  fortune. 
By  heavens,  I  would  follow  you  to  Bengal  with  the  greatest 


APPENDIX.  455 

pleasure.  As  to  England  when  you  are  gone,  I  shall  hardly 
wish  to  return  to  it.  My  old  friends,  you  say,  are  all  dispersed. 
What  then  should  I  do  there?  I  should  be  miserable  to  find 
myself-  at  a  loss  for  companions  in  a  place  where  I  was  once  so 
happily  connected.  Mrs.  -  -  retired,  too.  It  is  true  then 
that  the  mistakes  of  her  sex  find  a  retreat  in  devotion.  What 
shall  we  do  without  her  at  Margate  ?  Surely,  surely,  Francis, 
you  cannot  be  so  altered  as  to  endure  the  company  of  Mrs. 
Macnamara  and  her  sister  the  whole  month  of  August.*  Are 
the  Miss  Purcells  to  be  of  the  party  ?  If  they  are  you  will 
have  some  comforts.  I  think  you  mentioned  to  me  something 
about  their  complaining  of  my  not  taking  leave  of  them.  Tell 
them  I  thought  the  parting  would  have  affected  me  too  much. 
Their  father  is  dead,  I  understand.  I  wish  I  could  bring 
myself  to  marry  the  thin  one,  if  she  was  worth  five  and  twenty 
or  thirty  thousand  pounds.  I  should  meet  with  no  great 
difficulties  on  her  part,  if  I  may  trust  her  own  words.  Do  not 
think  me  vain.  Do  not  neglect  to  give  my  love  to  Mrs. 
Francis,  &c.  I  would  write  to  Mr.  Secretary  Mackrabie,  but 
really  have  not  time.  I  charge  you,  take  care  of  your  health ; 
I  have  right  to  order  you,  for  I  have  interest  in  it. 
Believe  me  to  be,  with  the  greatest  affection,  yours, 

ElCHAED   TlLGHMAN. 

Let  me  know  to  whose  care  I  shall  send  my  letter  to  you. 
You  have  promised  to  give  me  an  account  of  your  proceedings, 
and  I  shall  hold  you  to  your  engagement.  Our  correspondence 
will  be  unequal ;  I  shall  have  no  news  to  give  you  in  return. 
But  that  is  my  country's  fault,  not  mine. 


LETTER  XXVI. 

Philadelphia  :  September  29th,  1773. 

My  dear  Francis, — I  have  received  your  packet  of  the  17th 
of  July.  You  are  very  tenacious  of  your  epigram.  I  observe 
you  contend  for  it,  as  if  your  reputation  as  a  poet  depended  on 
it.  But  I  did  not  condemn  the  composition,  I  only  said  it  was 
not  an  original,  because  'in  the  school  of  the  Graces,  by  Venus 
attended,  Belinda  improves  every  hour.7 

*  If  you  can  bear  that  you  can  bear  India.  Perhaps  you  form  the  party, 
with  a  view  of  making  the  trial. 


456  APPENDIX. 

I  have  perused  the  Regulation  bill  carefully,  and  am  of  opinion 
that  it  will  answer  all  your  purposes  effectually.  It  gives  you 
vast  power,  and  a  vast  salary.  As  for  the  justice  or  policy  oi 
the  thing,  I  know  nothing  about  them.  But  how  did  you  get 
this  appointment  ?  It  is  miraculous  to  me  that  a  man  should 
resign  his  office  in  1772,  and'  in  1773,  without  any  change  ot 
Ministry,  be  advanced  in  so  very  extraordinary  a  manner. 
Your  merit  and  abilities  I  was  always  ready  to  acknowledge, 
sir.  But  I  was  never  taught  to  think  much  of  Lord  North's 
virtue  or  discernment.  His  treatment  of  you  has  in  some 
measure  redeemed  him  in  my  opinion.  I  delivered  your  letter 
to  the  Colonel.  He  will  manage  matters  so  that  Philip  and 
Macedon  shall  not  cost  you  a  farthing  in  quit  rents;  the  quo 
modo  he  will  himself  explain  to  you.  He  means  to  write  on 
the  subject  by  this  pacquet.  I  sent  you  the  Francis  crest  by 
my  last  letter ;  I  hope  it  will  enable  you  to  find  the  arms.  I 
should  be  glad  if  you  will  let  me  know  what  they  are.  I  have 
another  favour  to  ask.  Will  you  make  me  a  present  of  Francis's 
Horace  ?  I  could  buy  it  here,  but  that  is  not  what  I  want.  It 
will  gratify  my  pride  to  receive  it  from  you.  If  my  father  or  I 
should  ever  write  a  book  the  favour  shall  be  returned.  I  re- 
collect that  sometime  before  I  left  England,  I  put  my  name  at 
your  instance  to. a  subscription  for  a  new  edition  to  Burns' 
poems,  and  paid  half  a  guinea  to  his  daughter.  Is  the  book 
out  yet  ? 

I  do  not  wonder  at  your  shuddering  at  the  thoughts  of  your 
passage.  Patient  as  you  are,  you  will  be  sufficiently  tired  of 
walking  the  deck,  before  you  get  half  over.  But  I  suppose  you 
will  touch  at  several  places  in  your  way.  That  will  be  a  great 
relief.  I  charge  you  not  to  suffer  Mackrabie  to  play  the  quack 
with  you.  He  is  a  mighty  man  for  physic,  and  will  be  offering 
you  doses  every  day,  but  don't  you  take  them ;  if  you  do,  he 
will  work  you  to  death,  before  you  get  to  Fort  William. 

I  am  not  quite  so  fond  of  law  as  you  say  my  cousin  is ;  how- 
ever, I  read  a  good  deal.  As  for  business  I  have  but  little.  I  am 
a  young  man,  and  must  be  contented  to  sit  a  while  in  the  back- 
row.  My  father  is  as  generous  an  old  fellow  as  ever  lived,  and 
lets  me  have  what  money  I  want ;  so  that,  in  that  respect,  I  live 
quite  at  my  ease.  If  he  had  Sir  Samuel's  estates,  and  I  was 
his  only  son,  he  would  disinherit  me,  if  I  thought  of  practising 
law,  or  indeed  of  anything  but  spending  loney  like  a  gentleman. 


APPENDIX.  457 

I  join  you  heartily  in  wishing  we  could  drink  a  bottle  together 
before  you  leave  England.  I  could  find  a  great  deal  to  say  to 
you :  but  no  matter.  We  will  meet  again  one  day  or  other,  and 
be  happy.  In  the  meantime, 

Sis  licet  felix,  ubicunque  mavis, 
Et  memor  nostri  .  .  .  vivas. 

Give  my  best  love  to  Mrs.  Francis,  and  my  little  cousins.    When 
you  are  gone  I  will  write  to  Mrs.  Francis.     How  shall  I  direct 
•  to  her  ?     Farewell,  my  dear  friend,  and  believe  me  to  be, 
With  greatest  affection,  yours, 

RICHARD  TILGHMAN. 


458 

POSTSCEIPT. 

THE   ABBfi   OBANT. — VOL.  I.   CHAP.  VIII. 

SINCE  these  volumes  were  in  the  press,  .the  Editor  has  received 
the  following  information  from  a  gentleman  who  had  the 
kindness  to  answer  enquiries  made  for  him,  at  Rome,  respect- 
ing this  personage,  mentioned  by  Francis  as  having  introduced 
him  to  the  Pope  on  his  visit  to  Rome  in  1772. 

"  He  was  resident  in  Rome  for  a  long  period  as  agent  for  the 
Scottish  Mission.  .  .  .  He  was  held  in  high  esteem  at  the  Papal 
Court.  He  was  also  well  known  to  all  the  British  subjects  who 
visited  Rome  at  that  period,  and  through  him  they  generally 
obtained  an  audience  of  the  Pope.  Owing  to  this,  probably,  I 
have  heard  that  he  was  called  the  British  Minister  at  Rome. 
His  memory  is  a  pleasing  tradition  in  many  families,  whose 
ancestors  had  been  in  Rome  and  made  his  acquaintance  there. 
A  member  of  the  Earl  of  Glasgow's  family  possesses  a  portrait 
of  him.  He  is  mentioned  favourably  in  Lady  M.  W.  Montagu's 
letters  as  resident  in  Rome  1753,  and  in  1773  by  Bruce  the 
African  traveller.  I  have  seen  nothing  in  his  papers  to  show 
that  he  was  a  zealous  or  active  partisan  of  the  Stuarts;  but  he 
had  of  course  a  warm  side  to  their  cause.  He  died  in  1784,  and 
was  buried  in  the  Church  of  the  Scots  College  in  Rome ;  with 
a  monument  which  still  exists,  and  bears  the  following  in- 
scription : — 

Memoriae 

Petri  Grant  Presbyteri  Scoti 

Viri  Probi 
Qui  uti  vivens  de  omnibus  bene  mereri 

semper   stutluit 
ita  moriens  ingens  sui  desiderium 

apud  omnes  reliquit 

Visit  an.  LXXIII.  obiit  A.  D.  MDCCLXXXIV. 

Johannes  Comes  de  Bute 

Jacobus  Stuart  Mackenzie 

Germani  Fratres 
Amico  optimo  posuerunt." 


SPOTTISWOODB  AKD  CO.,  PB1NTEBS,  BEW-BTBEBT  8QCAUE,  LOX0OX. 


;UK»J  agreeing  wittt  the  version 
IT    thce.ser7olurae4  as  asking  an  English 
™M    M    'r  ^  Kobinson  (not  ITtcwfc^ 

,5<J;  ™nVaI°  haS,lt}'  Who  was  dining  ^  the 
K  lfc-  .^orentin,  what  had  become  of  his  poor 
lan  Friday  ?  1S  a  tale  invented  by  that  uni- 
ersal genius  Ben  Trovato.    Sir  Henry  Bulwer 
lowever,  accepts  it  as  fact. 

After  Francis's  return  to  England,  he  com- 
nenced  a  parliamentary  career  which  was 
ot  undistinguished. 


Parkes,  Joseph 

Memoirs  of  Sir  Philip 
Francis 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 


UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


