C  LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  OF 
CALIFORNIA 

t       SAN  DIEGO 


PRIVATE    LETTERS 


OF 


EDWARD    GIBBON, 


Jl. 


SILHOUETTE   PORTRAIT    OF   EDWARD   GIBBON. 


IProntispiece,  Vol.  II. 


PRIVATE    LETTERS 


OF 


EDWAED  aiBBo:Nr 

(1753-1794). 


WITH   AN   INTEODUCTION   BY 

THE  EARL  OF   SHEFFIELD. 


EDITED  BY 


ROWLAND   E.   PEOTHERO, 

BARRISTER-AT-LAW,    SOME-TIME   FELLOW   OF   ALL   SOULS'   COLLEGE,    OXFORD. 


VOL.     IL 


LONDON: 
JOHN  MURRAY,  ALBEMARLE  STREET. 

189G. 


LONDON : 

FKINTED  BY  WILLIAM  CLOWES  AND  SONS,   LlillTI'.D, 

ETAMFOKD  STREET  AND  CHAiUNG  CROSS. 


GIBBON'S   CORKESPONDENCE. 

1753-1794. 

418. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Bentinck  Street,  July  3rd,  1781. 

Dear  Madam, 

Though  your  kind  impatience  might  make  the  time 
appear  tedious,  there  has  been  no  other  delay  in  my  business, 
than  the  necessary  forms  of  Election.  My  new  constituents  of 
Lymington  obligingly  chose  me  in  my  absence.  I  took  my  seat 
last  Wednesday,  and  am  now  so  old  a  member  that  I  begin  to 
complain  of  the  heat  and  length  of  the  Session.  So  much  for 
Parliament.  With  regard  to  the  board  of  trade,  I  am  ignorant  of 
your  friend's  meaning,  and  possibly  she  may  be  so  herself.  There 
has  not  been  (to  my  knowledge)  the  most  distant  idea  of  my 
leaving  it,  and  indeed  there  are  few  places  within  the  compass  of 
any  rational  ambition  that  I  should  Hke  so  well. 

In  a  few  days,  as  soon  as  we  are  relieved  from  public  busi- 
ness, I  shall  go  down  to  my  Country  house  for  the  summer.  Do 
not  stare.  I  say  my  Country  house.  Notwithstanding  Caplin's 
very  diligent  enquiries,  I  have  not  been  able  to  please  myself  with 
anything  in  the  neighbourhood  of  London,  and  have  therefore 
hired  for  three  months  a  small  pleasant  house  at  Brighthelmstone. 
I  flatter  myself  that  in  that  admirable  sea-air,  with  the  vicinity  of 
Sheffield  place,  and  a  proper  mixture  of  light  study  in  the  morning 
and  good  company  in  the  evening,  the  summer  may  roll  away  not 
disagreably. — As  I  know  your  tender  apprehensions,  I  promise  you 
not  to  bathe  in  the  sea  without  due  preparation  and  advice. 

Mrs.  Porten  has  chosen,   not  for    health    but    pleasure,   a 
different  sea-shore :  she  has  been  some  weeks  at  Margate,  and  will 

VOL.  II.  B 


2  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1781. 

scarcely  return    to    town    before   my  departure.      I    sincerely 

sympathize  in  all  the  melancholy  scenes  which  have  afflicted  your 

sensibility,  and  am  more  particularly  concerned  about  poor  Miss 

Gould,  to  whom   I  wish  to  express  the  thoughts  and  hopes  of 

friendship  on  this  melancholy  occasion.     Lady  Miller's^  sudden 

death  has  excited  some  attention  even  in  this  busy  World,  her 

foibles  are  mentioned  with  general  regard.    Adieu,  Dear  Madam, 

and  do  not  let  Mrs.  Ravaud  tempt  you  into  Elysium:  we  are 

tolerably  well  here. 

lam 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

419. 
To  his  Stepmother, 

Bentinck  Street,  July  9th,  1781. 

Dear  Madam, 

Nothing  but  my  absence  (on  a  visit  to  Mr.  Jenkinson  ^ 

in  Surrey)  should  have  prevented  me  from  writing  by  the  first 

post  to  remove  those  fears  which  could  be  suggested  only  by 

too  exquisite  a  sensibility.     I  am  well  and  happy  ;    the  modest 

expression  of  tolerably  was  intended  to  express  a  very  high  degree 

of  content,  and  I  most  sincerely  assure  you  that  my  journey  io 

Brighthelmstone  is  in  search  not  of  health  but  of   amusement 

and  society. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon". 

'  Anna,  Lady  Miller  (1741-1781),  author  of  Letters  from  Italy,  hy  an 
Englishwoman  (1776),  a  verse-writer  and  a  well-known  character  at  Bath, 
held  a  literary  salon  at  her  villa  at  Batheaston.  She  held,  writes  Walpole, 
January  15, 1775,  "  a  Parnassus-fair  every  Thursday,  gives  out  rhymes  and 
themes,  and  all  the  flux  of  quality  at  Bath  contend  for  the  prizes."  An 
antique  vase,  purchased  in  Italy,  was  placed  on  a  modern  altar  decorated  with 
laurel,  and  each  guest  was  invited  to  place  in  the  urn  an  original  composition 
in  verse.  The  author  of  the  one  declared  to  be  the  best  was  crowned  by 
Lady  Miller  with  a  wreath  of  myrtle.  Selections  from  these  compositions 
were  published  at  intervals.  "Nothing  here,"  said  Miss  Burney  in  1780, 
"  is  more  tonish  than  to  visit  Lady  Miller."  Lady  Miller  died  suddenly  at 
Bristol  Hot  Wells  on  June  24,  1781.  Her  husband,  Sir  John  Riggs  Miller, 
died  in  1798. 

*  Probably  0.  Jeakinsou,  M.P.  for  Saltash,  and  Secretary  at  "War;  after- 
wards Earl  of  Liverpool. 


1781.]  HIS  HOUSE  AT  BRIGHTON.  3 

420. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Brighthelmstone,  July  26th,  1781. 

Dear  Madam, 

After  a  short  visit  to  Sheffield  I  came  to  this  place  last 
Sunday  evening,  and  think  it  will  answer  my  expectations.  My 
house,  which  is  not  much  bigger  than  yours,  has  a  full  prospect  of 
the  sea  and  enjoys  a  temperate  climate  in  the  most  sultry  days. 
The  air  gives  health,  spirits  and  a  ravenous  appetite.  I  walk 
sufficiently  morning  and  evening,  lounge  in  the  middle  of  the  day 
on  the  Steyne,  booksellers'  shops,  &c.,  and  by  the  help  of  a  pair 
of  horses  can  make  more  distant  excursions.  The  society  is  good 
and  easy,  and  though  I  have  a  large  provision  of  books  for  my 
amusement,  I  shall  not  undertake  any  deep  studies  or  laborious 
compositions  this  summer.  You  will  rejoyce,  I  am  sure,  in  hearing 
so  favourable  an  account  of  my  situation,  and  I  wish  I  could, 
propose  to  you  to  share  it  with  me. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  Gibbon,. 

421. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Brighthelmstone,  August  24th,  1871.  ■ 

Dear  Madam, 

Of  all  mortals  I  have  the  least  right  to  complain  of  a 
friend's  silence,  but  yours  has  been  so  long  and  so  unnatural  that 
I  am  seriously  alarmed.  If  you  can  assure  me  by  a  line  that  it 
does  not  proceed  from  want  of  health  or  spirits,  I  shall  be 
perfectly  at  ease.  Notwithstanding  our  princely  visitors  (the 
Cumberlands)  who  are  troublesome,  I  like  the  air  and  society  so 
well  that  I  shall  certainly  stay  here  at  least  till  the  end  of 
September.    Adieu. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 


4  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1781. 

422. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Brooke's,  Thursday  Evening,  1781. 

What  I  hear  would  fill  volumes,  what  I  Icnotv  does  not 
amount  to  half  a  line. — All  is  expectation :  but  I  fear  that  our 
enemies  are  more  active  than  our  friend.  He  ^  is  still  at  Bushy  ; 
a  meeting  is  held  next  Saturday  morn  at  eleven  o'clock,  but  I 
think  you  need  not  hurry  yourself.  According  to  Louisa's  phrase, 
I  will  be  your  grandfather.  The  black  Patriot  ^  is  now  walking 
and  declaiming  in  this  room  with  a  train  at  his  heels.  Adieu. 
No  news. 

E.    Gr. 

If  there  is  another  meeting  Sunday  evening  you  shall  find  a 
note.  I  have  not  seen  Lord  Loughborough,  but  understand  he 
has  preached  war  and  any  coalition  against  the  Minister. 

423. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

1781. 

Mrs.  Williams,  No.  8,  Downing  Street,  will  embrace  Lord  S., 
Mr.  Purden  and  Co.  for  two  Guineas  and  a  half  per  week.  The 
stables  and  Coach  houses  will  be  empty,  and  Mr.  Collier  will 
provide  the  needful  refreshments. — Sir  E[ichard]  W[orsley]  has 
opened  the  trenches  in  Doctors  Commons,  and  cryed  down  his 
wife's  credit  with  tradesmen,  &c.  I  supped  last  night  at  Lord 
L[oughborough]'s  with  Mrs.  Abingdon,^ — a  judge  and  an  actress  ; 
what  would  Sir  Eoger  Hill  *  say  ?  Dinner  will  be  on  table  at 
five  o'clock  next  Monday  in  Bentinck  Street. 

Saturday  night.  Brookes's  absolutely  alone.  The  town  even 
yet  veiy  empty. 

'  Lord  North  resided  at  Bushy,  Lady  North  having  been  appointed  in 
July,  1771,  Keeper  and  Ranger  of  Bushy  Park. 

«  Probably  C.  J.  Fox. 

^  Fanny  Barton,  Mrs.  Abington,  first  appeared  on  the  stage  at  the 
Haymarket  in  1755.  Her  great  success  was,  however,  gained  at  Drury  Lane, 
after  her  return  from  Dublin,  from  176i  onwards.  She  was  the  first  Lady 
Teazle,  and  acted  Ophelia  to  Garrick's  Hamlet.     She  died  in  1815. 

*  Sir  Roger  Hill  was  a  Baron  of  the  Court  of  Exchequer  at  the  time  of 
the  Commonwealth,  aud  therefore,  it  is  suggested,  would  have  shrunk  from 
contact  with  a  player.    He  was  an  ancestor  of  Lady  Sheffield. 


1781.]     FRENCH  AND  SPANISH  FLEETS  IN  THE  CHANNEL.     5 

42^. 

To  Lord  Shpffield. 

Friday,  two  o'clock,  7th  Sept.,  1781. 
Lord  Hillsborough^  tells  me  that  himself  and  Co.  believe 
that  the  combined  fleets  are  gone  into  Brest.  Expresses  that 
left  Bristol  yesterday,  and  Plymouth,  Wednesday,  cannot  give  the 
least  account  of  them,  and  a  Portuguese  ship  from  Lisbon  the 
23rd  last  month,  beat  several  days  between  Scilly  and  the  Land's 
end  without  seeing  or  hearing  of  them.  However,  at  all  events 
more  than  twenty-five  swift  sailing  vessels  had  been  sent  out  to 
meet  and  warn  the  West  India  fleets.     Adieu. 

We  shall  meet  at  Brighton  on  Monday. 

E.  G. 

425. 

To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  Friday  evening,  ten  o'clock,  1781. 

*0h,  ho  !  I  have  given  you  the  slip  ;  saved  thirty  miles,  by 
proceeding  directly  this  day  from  Eartham  to  town,  and  am  now 
comfortably  seated  in  my  library,  in  my  own  easy  chair,  and 
before  my  oivn  fire  ;  a  style  which  you  understand,  though  it  is 
unintelligible  to  your  Lord.  The  town  is  empty  ;  but  I  am 
surrounded  with  a  thousand  old  acquaintance  of  all  ages  and 
characters,  who  are  ready  to  answer  a  thousand  questions  which 
I  am  impatient  to  ask.  I  shall  not  easily  be  tired  of  their 
Company  ;  yet  I  still  remember,  and  will  honourably  execute,  my 
promise  of  visiting  you  at  Brighton  about  the  middle  of  next 
month.  I  have  seen  nobody,  nor  learned  anything,  in  four  hours 
of  a  town  life  ;  but  I  can  inform  you,  that  Lady  *  *  ♦  [erased] 
is  now  the  declared  mistress  of  Prince  Henry  of  Prussia,  whom 

»  Wills  Hill,  second  Viscount  Hillsborough,  in  1789  created  first  Marquis 
of  Downshire  (1718-1793).  In  November,  1779,  he  succeeded  Lord  Wey- 
mouth as  Secretary  of  State  for  the  northern  department,  and  held  that 
office  till  the  resignation  of  the  Government  in  March,  1782.  Walpole, 
■writing  on  September  11,  says  the  combined  French  and  Spanish  fleets 
■were  at  the  entrance  of  the  Channel,  "  where  they  certainly  will  not  venture 
to  stay  long." 


6  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1781. 

she  encountered  at  Spa  ;  and  that  the  Emperor  has  invited  this 
amiable  Couple  to  pass  the  winter  at  Vienna  ;  fine  encouragement 
for  married  women  who  behave  themselves  properly  !  I  spent  a 
very  pleasant  day  in  the  little  paradise  of  Eartham,  and  the 
hermit  expressed  a  desire  (no  vulgar  compliment)  to  see  and  to 
know  Lord  S.     Adieu.     I  cordially  embrace,  &c.* 

426. 
To  his  Ste])mother. 

Bentinck  Street,  October  Gth,  1781. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  have  meditated  a  letter  many  posts,  and  the  bell  of 
Saturday  evening  now  admonishes  or  rather  reproaches.  Allow 
me  only  to  say  that  I  am  perfectly  well,  and  expect  very  soon 
some  more  lines.  The  season  no  longer  invites  me  to  Bright- 
helmston,  but  the  Sheffields,  &c.,  insist  on  my  passing  another 
fortnight  there,  which  will  carry  me  (as  I  shall  not  go  till 
Sunday  seven-night)  to  the  end  of  the  month. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

427. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  Oct.  21st,  1781. 

The  last  ten  years  by  your  advice  I  ensured  my  farm  build- 
ings at  Buriton  and  no  accident  happened.  This  year  after  your 
example  I  have  ceased  my  insurance,  and — read  Hugonin's  two 
letters,  which  I  have  just  received  and  answered.  I  thank  him 
for  undertaking  the  necessary  work,  press  for  Harris's  immediate 
resignation,  and  propose  to  weigh  during  the  Winter  the  choice 
of  tenants  and  the  scale  of  repairs.  The  present  rent  is  only 
£50. — If  any  ideas  occur  to  you,  communicate  your  instructions, 
and  he  will  receave  them  with  deference,  but  the  subject  makes 
me  heavij.  The  time  is  ill  chosen.  If  you  go  to  Coventry  you 
must  pass  through  town — wnen  ?  But  I  have  almost  done  with 
Hampton  Court.  I  may  see  Lord  Beauchamp,  but  do  not  under- 
stand that  I  have  anything  to  say  to  him  from  you.     His  brother 


1781.]  BRIGHTON  IN  NOVEMBER.  7 

may  be  a  tolerable  accession  to  the  Party ,^  and  let  me  tell  you  it 
is  no  contemptible  one.  I  mean  the  party  of  the  H.  of  C.  If 
we  ever  meet  at  S.  P.  you  will  introduce  me  to  the  Lady  of  whom 
I  hear  a  very  amiable  character.  Adieu.  I  arrived  this  morn 
from  Eden's.  Lord  Loughborough  does  not  arrive  this  week. 
From  Cambridge  I  understand  that  you  have  suffered  by  the 
fatigues  of  the  Camp. 

Inform  me  of  your  health. 

E.  G. 


428. 
To  his  Stepnother. 

Brighthelmstone,  Nov.  2nd,  1781. 

Dear  Madam, 

If  I  had  not  been  fortified  by  the  friendly  assurances 
which  vou  sent  me,  I  should  indeed  have  been  alarmed  by  the 
melancholy  account  that  I  heard  of  your  health  as  soon  as  I 
arrived  in  Sussex.  Since  that  time  (an  interval  somewhat  too 
long)  I  have  been  gradually  better  satisfied  with  the  frequent 
and  favourable  dispatches  from  Bath,  and  I  have  now  the  satis- 
faction to  find  (however  I  might  suspect  your  own  friendly  dis- 
simulation) that  even  in  Mr.  H.'s  apprehensive  fancy  you  have 
in  a  great  measure  recovered  that  situation  which  I  wish  you 
long  to  preserve. 

*I  returned  to  this  place  with  Lord  and  Lady  Shefiield,  with 
the  design  of  passing  two  or  three  weeks  in  a  situation  which 
had  so  highly  delighted  me.  But  how  vain  are  all  sublunary 
hopes  !  I  had  forgot  that  there  is  some  difference  between  the 
sunshine  of  August  and  the  cold  fogs  (though  we  have  uncommon 
good  weather)  of  November.  Instead  of  my  beautiful  sea-shore, 
I  am  confined  to  a  dark  lodging  in  the  middle  of  the  town  ;  for 
the  place  is  still  full,  and  our  time  is  now  spent  in  the  dull 
imitation  of  a  London  life.  To  compleat  my  misfortunes.  Lord 
S.  was  hastily  ordered  to  Canterbury,  to  suppress  smuggling,  and 
I  was  left  almost  alone  with  My  Lady,  in  the  servile  state  of  a 
married  man.    But  he  returns  to-day,  and  I  hope  to  be  seated 

»  The  Hon.  William  Conway,  afterwards  Lord  SlieflSeld's  colleague  in 
the  representation  of  Coventry. 


^  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1781-. 

in  my  own  library  by  the  middle  of  next  week.  However,  you 
will  not  be  sorry  to  hear  that  I  have  refreshed  myself  by  a  very 
idle  summer,  and  indeed  a  much  idler  and  more  pleasant  winter 
than  the  house  of  Commons  will  ever  allow  me  to  enjoy  again,"' 

I  hear  of  no  public  changes  of  administration,  but  you  are 
perhaps  already  infonned  that  a  grand  officer  of  my  household 
(Mrs.  Ford)  at  length  retires  on  a  pension,  her  wages  for  her  lifey 
with  which  she  seems  well  contented,  though  I  am  ignorant  of 
her  plans.  Mrs.  Porten  opened  the  business  to  her,  but  I  have 
not  yet  sustained  the  last  tender  interview  which  I  really  dislike- 
very  much.  Caplin  assumes  with  pleasure  the  office  of  prime 
minister,  and  we  hope  that  some  lessons  at  White's  will  turn  the 
housemaid  (Edward's  sister)  into  a  good  Cook  for  private  ordinary 
days. 

■■'I  had  almost  forgot  Mr.  Hayley ;  ungratefully  enough, 
since  I  really  past  a  very  simple,  but  entertaining  day  with  him. 
His  place,  though  small,  is  elegant  as  his  mind,  which  I  value 
much  more  highly.*  And  Adam  might  be  happy  if  Eve  had  never- 
been  admitted  into  the  paradise  of  Eartham.  She  is  resolved 
(the  air  of  Eartham  after  fifteen  years'  residence  is  found  to  be 
too  cold)  to  eat  another  Bath  apple,  which  as  you  properly 
apprehend  will  not  be  very  wholesome  either  for  her  fame  or 
his  fortune.  *Mrs.  H.  wrote  a  melancholy  story  of  an  American 
mother,  a  friend  of  her  friend,  who  in  a  short  time  had  lost  three 
sons  :  one  killed  by  the  savages,  one  run  mad  from  the  fright  at 
that  accident,  and  the  third  taken  at  sea,  now  in  England  a  prisoner 
in  Forton  hospital.  For  him  something  might  perhaps  be  done. 
Your  humanity  will  prompt  you  to  obtain  from  Mrs.  H.  a  more 
accurate  account  of  names,  dates,  and  circumstances ;  but  you 
will  prudently  suppress  my  request,  lest  I  should  raise  hopes 
which  it  may  not  be  in  my  power  to  gratify.  Lady  S.  begs  to 
send  her  kindest  Compliments  to  you.*  The  persons  of  Bath  by 
whom  and  to  whom  I  wish  to  be  remembered  are  Mrs.  Ravaud 
and  the  Goulds.  What  is  become  of  poor  Sir  John  Miller  ?  I 
foresee  very  little  prospect  of  visiting  Bath  at  Christmas,  but  I 
depend,  perhaps  with  too  much  confidence,  on  next  Easter. 

I  am,  dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours. 


1781]  HIS  ADVICE  IN  A   QUAEREL.  9 

429. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  \  before  five,  1781. 
I  have  seen  the  General.  You  are  both  wrong ;  he  first  in 
lending  your  papers  without  special  leave,  and  then  in  the  real  or 
apparent  slight  of  your  messages  ;  you  in  the  serious  anger  which 
you  expressed  on  so  trifling  a  business.  Unless  you  wish  that  this 
slight  scratch  should  inflame  into  an  incurable  sore,  embrace  the 
lucky  opportunity  of  his  illness  and  confinement,  which  will  excuse 
your  dignity  and  should  assuage  your  resentment.  Call  on  him 
this  evening,  give  and  receive,  between  jest  and  earnest,  a  volley 
of  damns,  and  then  let  the  whole  affair  be  no  more  remembered 
than  it  deserves.     Dixl  et  Uberavi  animam  meam. 

430. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  November  20th,  1781. 

I  came  yesterday  from  Jenkinson's  (near  Croydon),  where  I 
had  spent  two  very  agreeable  days.  We  all  tremble  on  the  edge 
of  a  precipice,  and  whatever  may  be  the  event,  the  American  war 
seems  now  to  be  reduced  to  very  narrow  compass  both  of  time 
and  place. 

This  morning  Caplin  was  sent  to  reconnoitre  :  he  reports 
that  the  stables  are  empty,  but  as  the  coach-house  is  full,  the 
close  alliance  between  carriage  and  horses  will  render  the  former 
circumstance  of  little  avail.  Nothing  can  be  had  in  Parliament 
Street  or  the  large  streets  adjoining  except  one  whole  house  at 
four  Guineas  per  week.  In  Fludyer  and  Downing-streets  several 
indifferent  and  gloomy  lodgings  are  at  your  service,  but  as  I 
should  prefer  a  Pall  Mall,  &c.  situation,  Caplin  has  paused  till 
you  send  him  more  peremptory  commands. — Your  Monday  dinner 
Avill  be  ready  at  five,  and  Adam,  perhaps  Batt,  will  be  of  the 
party. 

Your  Greeks  were  not  carried  from  Brighton  through  care- 
lessness, but  as  you  are  serioushj  absurd  about  lending  books, 
I  have  directed  Caplin  to  send  them  to  S.  P.  per  coach.  By 
way  of  revenge  I  may  inform  you  that  I  have  now  purchased  a 


10  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1781. 

copy  of  Stephen's  Greek  Poets  compared  to  which  yours  is  very 

little  more  than  waste  paper.     Adieu. 

I  embrace  my  Lady.    I  do  not  approve  of  her  being  called 

Cat. 

E.  G. 

431. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

H.  of  Commona,  December  6th,  1781. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  wish  most  sincerely  that  it  were  in  my  power  to  give 
you  or  myself  any  comfort  on  the  present  state  of  public  affairs, 
which  is  indeed  deplorable  and  I  fear  hojjeless.  But  at  last  I 
can  send  you  a  favourable  account  of  myself  :  the  late,  hot, 
melancholy  hours  of  the  house  of  Commons,^  which  seem  to 
oppress  every  body  round  me,  have  no  effect  on  my  health  or 
spirits,  and  I  feel  myself  heartily  tired  {ennuye)  without  being 
in  the  least  fatigued.  Of  Mrs.  P.  I  shall  say  nothing,  as  by 
this  time  you  will  have  seen  her  brother  and  his  wife,  who  set 
out  this  morning  for  Bath.  A  month  without  business  will  be  a 
new  and  wholesome  scene  for  Sir  Stanier.  I  hear  nothing,  and 
want  to  hear  something  of  Mrs.  Hayley.  You  have  heard  of 
Lady  Worsley  ;  your  old  acquaintance  Sir  Richard  labours  with 
copious  materials  for  a  divorce. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 
Thanks  for  the  Carpet. 

432. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Bentiuck  Street,  December  26th,  1781. 

Dear  Madam, 

"Will  you  excuse  my  only  transmitting  the  needful,  with 
the  necessary  assurance  that  I  am  well  and  happy,  and  the 
unnecessary  addition,  that  I  wish  you  long  to  remain  so  ?  I  envy 
Sir  Stanier  and  Lady  Porten  the  pleasure  which  I  shall  not  enjoy 
till  Easter :  pray  give  my  love  to  them.    I  pity  poor  Delacour 

'  Parliament  met  November  27,  1781,  and  sat  till  December  20, 


1781.]  NOISE  AND  NONSENSE  OF  PARLIAMENT.  11 

and  Lis  friends,  above  all  his  Christian  wife  or  daughter.  Give 
my  compliments  to  Mrs.  Hay  ley,  and  tell  her  that  both  song  and 
music  have  been  much  applauded.  Will  she  accept  this  notice 
as  a  letter  ?    Adieu,  Dear  Madam.    Believe  me. 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

433. 
To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  Dec.  29, 1781, 

As  Sheffelina  has  modernized  herself  by  securing  an  unknown 
Cicisbeo,  I  have  a  great  mind  to  propose  a  partie  quan'6e  which 
might  be  easily  furnished  from  Ickworth.  If  that  project  is 
rejected  and  I  must  make  a  solitary  visit,  I  shall  still  obey  the 
gracious  mandate,  but  instead  of  the  third  day  of  the  year  (may 
it  be  more  auspicious)  1782,  I  must  idelay  my  attendance  till 
about  the  8th  or  even  the  tenth,  which  will  still  allow  me  eight 
or  ten  days  of  fresh  air  and  friendly  converse,  before  I  again 
descend  into  the  noise  and  nonsense  of  the  Pandemonium.  At 
present  we  are  as  quiet  in  London  as  you  can  be  in  Sussex. 
Mrs.  Stuart's  shocking  adventure  is  the  only  event  that  enlivens 
conversation  ;  the  family  whisper  insanity  (a  terrible  resource), 
and  strive  without  success  to  persuade  that  the  whole  scene  passed 
only  in  her  imagination — yet  she  certainly  passed  the  whole  night 
abroad.  I  did  suppose  that  the  Baron  would  be  tired  of  his 
home  in  a  week,  but  as  this  visit  to  the  Regiment  will  abridge 
the  remaining  interval  he  may  possibly  support  it.  I  hear 
nothing  more  of  the  house  in  D.  S.,  but  still  believe  that  the 
minister  will  retire  before  your  superior  majesty  ;  ^  the  last  time 
I  saw  him  he  expressed  great  apprehension  of  your  displeasure. 
I  too  am  in  pursuit  of  a  house,  in  Harley  Street,  somewhat 
further  in  the  country  than  my  own  :  it  has  but  one  fault,  a  steep 

narrow  staircase,  but  where  must  we  seek  (except  at )  either 

a  house  or  a  wife  without  one  fault  ?  I  embrace  the  Angels, 
Princesses,  &c.  I  believe  the  elder  had  rather  be  a  Princess  than 
an  Angel.    Adieu. 

Le  Grand  Gibbon. 

'  Lord  North,  while  his  own  house  was  under  repair,  occupied  Lord 
Sheffield's  house  in  Downing  Street. 


<f 


12  ,  gibbon's  COERESPOXDENCE.  [1782. 

434. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Jan.  23rd,  1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  am  not  sorry  that  the  indiscretion  of  certain  female 
correspondents  should  give  the'opportmiity  of  sending  you  a  very 
fair  but  not  flattering  picture  of  myself. — It  is  very  true  that  I 
have  had  a  fit  of  the  Gout ;  but  if  the  name  of  agreable  can  ever 
be  applied  to  the  ugly  monster,  my  Gout  has  deserved  it  on  this 
occasion.  It  lasted  on  the  whole  no  more  than  ten  days,  attacked 
only  one  foot,  was  attended  with  scarcely  any  fever,  loss  of  appetite, 
or  lowness  of  spirits,  and  has  left  me  in  perfect  health  both  of 
mind  and  body. — Our  busy  scene  commences  to-morrow  ;  ^  and 
I  am  now  entering  into  the  hurry  of  the  winter :  but  I  will 
write  again  soon. 

I  am 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  G. 

435. 

To  his  Stepmother^ 

March  2nd,  1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  am  much  afraid  that  I  have  lost  all  credit  by  repeated 
promises  and  repeated  neglects,  yet  I  still  persuade  myself  that 
you  are  glad  to  hear,  though  in  two  lines,  of  my  health  and  good 
spirits,  and  that  you  will  postpone  more  ample  conversations  to 
the  Easter  Holydays,  when  I  can  talk  more  in  an  hour  than  I 
could  write  in  a  month.  Perhaps  I  should  even  have  delayed 
this  scrap  of  an  Epistle,  were  I  not  apprehensive  that  the 
parliamentary  events  of  this  week  would  have  given  you  some 
uneasiness  both  on  a  private  and  public  account.  Though  I  am 
not  in  the  secret,  especially  of  the  adverse  party,  yet  I  know  more 
than  it  is  proper  to  trust  to  paper.^ 

'  Parliament  met  January  21, 1782. 

'  Lord  North  resigned  on  March  20,  and  the  new  ministry,  with  the 


1782]  FALL  OF   LOKD  NORTH'S  MINISTRY.  13 

The  situation  of  the  administration,  though  dangerous,  is  not 
absolutely  desperate,  and  with  some  concessions  I  still  think  that 
Lord  N.  may  survive  the  impending  storm  of  the  next  fortnight. 
At  all  events,  if  we  fall  (for,  inconsiderable  as  I  am,  I  am  sure 
of  being  one  of  the  first  victims)  I  shall  meet  my  fate  Avith 
resolution. — I  remember  you  asked  me  an  age  ago  about  a  report 
of  my  having  got  a  house  in  Harley  Street  and  a  wreck  of  wine 
on  the  Coast  of  Sussex  :  the  former  was  a  fruitless  negociation, 
the  latter  related  to  my  aunt's  manor  of  Newhaven,  but  the  wine 
is  contested  by  the  King's  officers,  and  the  litigation,  if  pursued, 
may  cost  her  more  than  the  object  is  worth.  Adieu.  My  Dear 
Madam,  on  every  account  I  am  impatient  for  the  Easter  holydays. 

I  am 

Ever  yours. 


E.  G. 


43G. 
To  his  Stepmother 
My  Dear  Madam, 


Marcli  20th,  1782. 


All  is  now  over,  and  Lord  ISTorth  is  no  more.  This  day 
when  the  armies  in  the  H.  of  C.  were  ready  to  engage,  he  gave 
solemn  notice  that  the  whole  administration  was  dissolved,  and 
the  House  has  adjourned  till  Monday  next  to  allow  time  for  the 
new  arrangements.  Complaints  are  vain  and  useless  for  the  past, 
and  futurity  is  dark  and  dismal.  It  is  my  intention,  unless  I 
should  be  detained  either  by  serious  business,  or  by  some  threaten- 
ing symptoms  of  the  Gout,  to  visit  Bath  about  Sunday  sennight, 

Marquis  of  Rockingham  as  first  Lord  of  the  Treasury,  was  finally  settled 
on  Sunday,  March  24. 

The  now  Cabinet  consisted  of  the  following  ministers : — 

Marquis  of  Rockingham  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury. 

Lord  Thurlow,  to  continue  Lord  Chancellor. 

Earl  of  Shelburne    •»  t>  •     •     i  a       +    •       <•  cw 

Charles  James  Fox  }  Principal  Secretaries  of  State. 

Lord  J.  Cavendish  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 

Admiral  Lord  Keppel  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty. 

Duke  of  Grafton  Lord  Privy  Seal. 

Lord  Camden  President  of  the  Council. 

Duke  of  Richmond  Master-General  of  the  Ordnance. 

General  Conway  Commander-in-Chief. 

John  Dunning  (Lord  Ashburton)  Chancellor  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster. 


14  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1782. 

when  we  may  discuss  freely  and  fully  the  strange  events  of  the 
times.  Till  then  Adieu.  Remember  me  to  Mrs.  Hayley.  The 
Eliots  whom  I  see  sometimes  are  well,  and  as  you  may  suppose 
triumphant. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

437. 

To  his  Stejpmoiher. 

Bentinck  Street,  March  28th,  1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

In  our  common  disappointment  you  will  be  pleased  to 
hear  that  the  Gout  has  totally  left  me,  and  that  it  is  only  the 
extreme  shortness  of  our  adjournment  and  the  busy  uncertainty 
of  the  times  that  have  prevented  my  Easter  visit  to  Bath.  I  am 
satisfied  that  Bath  is  very  pleasant  in  the  months  of  May  and 
June,  and  you  may  be  assured  that  I  will  come  down,  as  soon  as 
our  fate  is  determined  and  the  busyness  of  parliament  has  begun 
to  subside.  Pray  give  my  compliments  to  Mrs.  Hayley.  I  fear 
she  will  be  gone  before  my  arrival. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

438. 

To  his  Stepmother, 

May  4th,  1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

The  thunder-bolt  has  fallen,  and  I  have  received  one  of 
the  circular  letters  from  Lord  Shelburne  to  inform  me  that  the 
board  of  trade  will  be  suppressed  and  that  his  Majesty  has  no  further 
occasion  for  my  services.  I  have  been  prepared  for  this  event 
and  can  support  it  with  firmness.  I  enjoy  health,  friends, 
reputation,  and  a  pei-petual  fund  of  domestic  amusement :  I  am 
not  without  resources,  and  my  best  resource,  which  shall  never 
desert  me,  is  in  the  chearf  ullness  and  tranquillity  of  a  mind  which 
in  any  place  and  in  any  situation  can  always  secure  its  own 
independent  happyness.  The  business  of  the  House  of  Commons 
still  continues,  and  indeed  encreases,  and  though  I  am  heartily 


1782.]  HIS  LOSS  OF  OFFICE.  15 

tired  of  the  scene,  some  serious  reasons  prevent  me  from  retiring 
at  the  present  season.  Yet  I  still  cast  a  longing  eye  towards 
Bath,  and  though  I  find  it  difficult,  or  rather  impossible,  to  fix  the 
moment  of  my  summer  visit,  I  can  most  sincerely  promise  that 
it  will  be  the  first  use  which  I  shall  make  of  my  freedom.  As  I 
have  only  one  object,  it  will  be  perfectly  indifferent  to  me  whether 
the  place  be  full  or  empty,  dully  or  lively.  Mrs.  Holroyd,  I 
suppose,  has  found,  and  Mrs.  Hayley  has  left,  you.  Are  you 
acquainted  with  Lady  Eliza  Foster,^  a  bewitching  animal  ?  You 
have  heard  of  my  Gouts,  they  are  vanished,  and  I  feel  myself  five 
and  twenty  years  old.  Can  you  say  as  much  ?  I  hope  you  can. 
Adieu.    Eecoimnend  me  to  the  Goulds. 

I  am 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  G. 
Next  Wednesday  I  conclude  my  forty-fifth  year,  and  in  spite 
of  the  changes  of  Kings  and  Ministers,  I  am  very  glad  that  I  was 
born. 

439. 
To  his  Stejjmother. 

Bentinck  Street,  May  29th,  1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

From  the  very  strong  expressions  of  anxious  expectatio7i 
and  frequent  disappointments,  I  must  think  that  I  am  much 
more  guilty  than  I  conceived  myself  to  be  on  account  of  my 
silence.  Your  apparent  indulgence  had  taught  me  to  believe 
that  you  were  accustomed  to  my  faults,  that  you  kindly  forgave 
them,  and  that  without  the  aid  of  the  pen  or  the  post  your  own 
heart  would  inform  you  of  the  sentiments  of  mine.     Since  my 

*  Lady  Elizabeth.  Hervey,  daughter  of  Frederick,  Earl  of  Bristol,  and 
Bishop  of  Derry,  married,  in  1776,  John  Thomas  Foster.  Her  father,  6ay» 
"Walpole  to  Mann  in  December,  1783,  though  a  rich  man,  allowed  her  to  be 
governess  to  a  natural  daughter  of  the  Duke  of  Devonshire.  Lady  Elizabeth 
Foster,  writes  Miss  Burney  (Biary  and  Letters  of  Madame  d'Arhlay,  vol.  v. 
p.  225),  "has  tlie  character  of  being  so  alluring,  that  Mrs.  Holroyd  told 
me  it  was  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Gibbon  no  man  could  withstand  her,  and  that, 
if  she  chose  to  beckon  the  Lord  Chancellor  from  his  woolsack,  in  full  sight 
of  the  world,  he  could  not  resist  obedience."  Lady  Elizabeth,  who,  in 
October,  1809,  married  as  her  second  husband  William,  fifth  Duke  of 
Devonshire,  died  March  30,  1824. 


16  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1782. 

last  letter  nothing  has  happened,  indeed  nothing  can  happen  to 
affect  my  situation  :  in  the  midst  of  a  plague  (such  is  the  present 
influenza)  my  health  and  spirits  are  perfectly  good,  and  in  that 
tranquil  state  Saturdays  and  Mondays  pass  away  without  waking 
me  from  my  gentle  slumber.  Even  my  curiosity  is  not  excited, 
as  I  have  frequent  opportunities  of  hearing  circumstantial  and 
impartial  accounts  of  the  only  object  that  interests  me  at  Bath. 

You  ask  with  some  anxiety  when  you  may  hope  to  see  me.  I 
know  not  what  to  say.  Though  I  always  foresee  and  recollect 
with  heartfelt  satisfaction  the  time  which  I  spend  at  the  Belvidere, 
yet  the  convenient  season  of  my  visit  seems  to  retire  before  me. 
Public  events  have  immoderately  protracted  the  present  session 
of  Parliament ;  it  will  certainly  continue  the  whole  of  June  and 
a  considerable  part  of  July,  and  as  it  was  my  intention  to  attend 
it  to  the  last,  I  began  to  think  that  you  would  excuse  me  if  I 
delayed  my  journey  (which  would  suit  me  far  better)  till  the 
beginning  of  Autumn.  But  if  you  have  any  particular  reasons 
that  make  you  wish  to  see  me  sooner,  say  it  in  ten  lines,  and  I  will 
set  off  in  ten  days.  I  rejoyce  in  every  subject  of  your  joy  both 
private  and  public,  and  I  am  better  pleased  to  hear  that  you  are 
free  from  pain  than  that  Eodney  has  destroyed  a  French  fleet.^ 
Alas  !  had  he  done  it  two  months  sooner  our  poor  administration 
would  have  stood.  Every  person  of  every  party  is  provoked  with 
our  new  Governors  for  taking  the  truncheon  from  the  hand  of  a 
victorious  Admiral,  in  whose  place  they  have  sent  a  Commander 
without  experience  or  abilities.^  To-morrow  they  will  be  exposed 
to  a  small  fire  in  the  H.  of  C.  on  that  popular  topic.  Adieu, 
Dear  Madam,  in  this  sickly  season  all  my  acquaintance  (masters, 
mistresses  and  servants)  are  laid  up  except  young  Mrs.  Porten 
iind  myself. 

I  am 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  G. 

*  On  April  12,  1782,  Admiral  Sir  George  Rodney  "  broke  the  line,"  and 
.defeated  the  French  under  the  Comte  de  Grasse  in  the  West  Indies,  the 
French  Admiral  and  his  flagship  the  Ville  de  Paris,  the  largest  ship  afloat 
;and  the  present  of  the  city  of  Paris  to  Louis  XVI.,  being  taken.  "  The  late 
Ministry  are  thus  robbed  of  a  victory  that  ought  to  have  been  theirs ;  but  the 
mob  do  not  look  into  the  almanac  "  (Walpole  to  Sir  H.  Maun,  May  18,  1782). 

^  Rodney  was  superseded  by  Admiral  Pigot,  who  was  one  of  the  Lords  of 
the  Admiralty  in  the  new  administration. 


1782.]  DEATH  OP  LORD  ROCKINGHAM.  17 

440. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

July  3rd,  1782. 

Dear  MADAjr, 

*I  hope  you  have  not  had  a  moment's  uneasiness  about 
the  delay  of  my  Midsummer  letter.  Whatever  may  happen,  you 
may  rest  fully  secure,  that  the  materials  of  it  shall  always  be 
found.  But  on  this  occasion  I  have  missed  four  or  five  posts ; 
postponing,  as  usual,  from  morning  to  the  evening  bell,  which 
now  rings,  till  it  has  occurred  to  me,  that  it  might  not  be  amiss 
to  inclose  the  two  essential  lines,  if  I  only  added  that  the 
Influenza  has  been  known  to  me  only  by  the  report  of  others. 
Lord  Eockingham  ^  is  at  last  dead  ;  a  good  man,  though  a  feeble 
minister  :  his  successor  is  not  yet  named,  and  divisions  in  the 
Cabinet  are  suspected.  If  Lord  Shelburne  should  be  the  Man,  aa 
I  think  he  will,  the  friends  of  his  predecessor  will  quarrel  with, 
him  before  Christmas.  At  all  events,  I  foresee  much  tumult  and 
strong  opposition,  from  which  I  should  be  very  glad  to  extricate : 
myself,  by  quitting  the  H.  of  C.  with  honour  and  without  loss. 
Whatever  you  may  hear,  I  believe  there  is  not  the  least  intention 
of  dissolving  Parliament,  which  would  indeed  be  a  rash  and 
dangerous  measure. 

I  hope  you  like  Mr.  Hayley's  poem  ;  ^  he  rises  with  his  subject, , 
and  since  Pope's  death,  I  am  satisfied  that  England  has  not  seen 
so  happy  a  mixture  of  strong  sense  and  flowing  numbers.     Are 
you  not  delighted  with  his  address  to  his  mother  ?     I  understand 

'  The  Marquis  of  Rockingham  died  July  2,  1782,  aged  fifty-two. 

"^  The  poem  to  which  Gibbon  alludes  is  the  Essay  on  Epic  Poetry  in  five 
Epistles  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Mason  (London,  1782).  Hayley's  mother  was  Mary 
Yates  (1718-1775),  who  married  Thomas  Hayley  in  1740,  and  died  in  1775. 
The  lines  to  which  Gibbon  alludes  occur  in  the  fourtji  epistle  (11. 439  to  end). 

"  Nature,  who  deck'd  thy  form  with  Beauty's  flowers. 
Exhausted  on  thy  soul  her  finer  powers ; 
Taught  it  with  all  her  energy  to  feel 
Love's  melting  softness.  Friendship's  fervid  zeal, 
The  generous  purpose,  and  the  active  tliought, 
With  Charity's  diffusive  spirit  fraught ; 
There  all  the  best  of  mental  gifts  she  plac'd, 
Vigor  of  judgment,  purity  of  Taste, 
Superior  parts,  without  their  spleenful  leaven. 
Kindness  to  Earth,  and  confidence  in  Heaven." 
VOL.  II.  C 


'iy 


18  GIBBON'S  COKRESPONDENCE.  [1782. 

that  She  was,  in  plain  prose,  every  thing  that  he  speaks  her  in 
verse.  This  summer  I  shall  stay  in  town,  and  work  at  my  trade, 
till  I  make  some  Holydays  for  my  Bath  excursion.  Lady  S.  is 
at  Brighton,  and  he  lives  under  tents,  like  the  wild  Arabs  ;  so 
that  my  Country  house  is  shut  up.  Kitty  Porten  is  gone  on 
a  fortnight's  frolick  to  lodge  at  Windsor. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours. 


441. 
To  Lord  Sheffield,  at  Coxheath  Cam}). 

Saturday  night,  Bentinck  Street,  1782. 

■*I  sympathise  with  your  fatigues ;  yet  Alexander,  Hannibal, 

''&c.  have  suffered  hardships  almost  equal  to  yours.  At  such  a 
moment  it  is  disagreeable  (besides  laziness)  to  write,  because  every 
hour  teems  with  a  new  lye.  As  yet,  however,  only  Charles  ^  has 
formally  resigned  ;  but  Lord  John,  Burke,  Keppel,  Lord  Althorpe, 

■  &c.  certainly  follow  ;  your  Commander-in-chief  stays,  and  they 
are  furious  against  the  Duke  of  Richmond.*  ^     "Why  will  he  not 

;  go  out  with  Fox  ?  said  somebody  ;  because,  replies  a  friend,  he 
does  not  like  to  go  out  with  any  man.     *In  short,  three  months 

-of  prosperity  has  dissolved  a  Phalanx,  which  had  stood  ten  years' 
adversity.  Next  Tuesday,  Fox  will  give  his  reasons,  and  possibly 
be  encountered  by  Pitt,  the  new  Secretary,  or  Chancellor,  at 
three  and  twenty.  The  day  will  be  rare  and  curious,  and,  if  I 
were  a  light  Dragoon,  I  would  take  a  gallop  on  purpose  to 
"Westminster.  Adieu.  I  hear  the  bell.  How  could  I  write  before 
I  knew  where  you  dwelt  ?  * 

E.  G. 

1  On  the  death  of  Lord  Rockingham,  Fox  endeavoured  to  force  on  the 
King,  as  the  new  Premier,  the  Duke  of  Portland,  "  a  dull  man,  but  a  con- 
venient block  to  hang  Whigs  on."     Failing  in  his  attempt,  he  resigned. 

^  Lord  John  Cavendish  and  Lord  Althorpe,  two  of  the  Lords  of  the 
Treasury,  Burke,  Paymaster-General,  Lord  Duncannon  and  the  Hon.  John 
Townshend,  Lords  of  the  Admiralty,  retired  with  Fox.  Lord  Keppel  and 
General  Conway  continued  in  office ;  also  the  Duke  of  Richmond,  Fox's 
uncle. 


1782.]  LORD  SHELBUKNE'S  MINISTRY.  19 


442. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 
Authentic  List} 


July  lOth,  1782. 


/Lord  S[helburne]. 

VW.  Pitt,  Chancellor  [of  the  Exchequer]. 
Treasury  <!  James  Grenville. 

/  Richard  Jackson. 

\Ed.  Eliot,  Junior,  of  Port  Eliot. 
-    ,    .      j  Aubrey   .     Duncannon         }^  Lord  Keppel  has 
Admiralty  |  ^^^^^    vice  j^^^  Townshend  S  not  yet  resign'd 

Secretaries  of  j  Lord  Grantham. 
State  (T.  Townshend. 

of  War.     Sir  George  Young. 

Treasurer  of  Navy.   Barre  remain. 

Paymaster.     Perhaps  Advocate. 
Ireland.     Lord  Temple. 


Yesterday  was  a  rare  day. 


Vera  Cop, 

E.  G. 


443. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

July  23rd,  1782. 

The  papers  say  you  are  at  Coxheath.  Write.  Bad  news  from 
India  ;  I  am  afraid  that  we  have  lost  a  ship  and  that  Hyder  has 
won  a  battle.^  None,  therefore  good,  from  Lord  Howe  since  every 
day  fortifies  him.^    Within  this  last  fortnight  prodigious  exertions 

•  Parliament  was  prorogued  on  July  11  till  December  5,  1782.  Gibbon's 
list  of  the  new  Ministry  is  accurate,  except  that  the  Lord  Advocate,  the  Hon. 
Henry  Dundas  (afterwards  Lord  Melville),  became  Treasurer  of  the  Navy, 
vice  Colonel  Isaac  Barre,  who  became  Paymaster  of  the  Forces.  "  Places  are 
cheaper  than  mackerel,"  writes  Lord  Loughborough  to  his  cousin  William 
Eden,  July  4, 1782  {Lord  Auckland's  Journal  and  Correspondence,  vol.  i.  p.  2). 

-  Gibbon  probably  refers  to  the  defeat  of  Colonel  Brathwaite  in  the 
Tanjore  district  (February,  1782),  by  Tippoo,  Hyder's  son,  and  M.  Lally. 

*  The  combined  French  and  Spanish  fleets  were  collected  in  the  Channel, 
intending  to  prevent  the  relief  of  Gibraltar  and  effect  a  junction  with  the 
Dutch.     Lord  Howe?  had  already  driven  the  Dutch  into  the  Texel.  and  he 


20  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1782. 

by  the  Admiralty,  till  then  they  were  fast  asleep.  The  Advocate 
arrived  last  night,  but  has  not  yet  accepted.  To-morrow  I  visit 
Eden  at  his  farm  near  Bromley.  If  you  and  my  Lady  could  give 
me  a  meeting  in  a  house,  I  would  run  down  even  for  three  or 
four  days  :  but  I  do  not  admire  canvass.    Adieu. 

E.  G. 
Aunt  Hester  seems  to  want  some  intelligence. 


444. 

To  his  Stej)mother. 

August  10th,  1782. 

Deae  I^Iadait, 

A  person  whom  you  would  scarcely  suspect,  General 
Conway  as  commander  in  Chief,  is  the  real  author  of  my  silence, 
which  as  usual  has  insensibly  lasted  far  beyond  my  first  intentions. 
Lord  Sheffield  is  a  slave,  his  master's  resolutions  are  obscure 
and  fluctuating,  and  I  have  waited  from  post  to  post  till  he 
could  mark  some  week  for  our  meeting  in  Sussex,  which  might 
leave  the  rest  of  my  time  at  liberty  for  my  Bath  expedition. 
Though  I  can  obtain  no  satisfaction  from  him,  I  must  not  suffer 
another  Mondcnj  to  slide  away  without  saying  that  I  am  alive,  well, 
and  unless  the  Arab  should  seize  {he  has  no  choice)  that  par- 
ticular moment,  in  full  expectation  of  gratifying  my  wishes  by 
a  visit  to  Bath  about  the  20th  of  next  month.  I  flatter  myself 
that  I  shall  find  you  not  affected  by  the  long  winter  which  we 
still  feel,  though  a  friend  of  mine,  an  Astronomer,  assured  me 
that  yesterday  was  the  last  of  the  dog  days. 

It  is  impossible  to  know  what  to  say  of  our  public  affairs, 
and  the  most  knowing  are  only  such  by  the  knowledge  of  their 
ignorance.  The  next  session  of  Parliament  will  be  the  warmest 
and  most  irregular  battle  that  has  ever  been  fought  in  that 
place,  and  each  man  (except  some  leaders)  is  at  the  moment 
uncertain  of  the  party  which  inclination,  opinion,  or  connection 
will  prompt  him  to  embrace.  You  see  that  Mr.  Eliot,  or  at 
least  his  family,  are  become  courtiers  ;  his  son  (a  very  unmeaning 

now  sailed  to  protect  the  Jamaica  convoy,  and  watch  the  enemy,  single  ships 
being  sent  to  reinforce  him  as  they  could  be  made  ready.  On  September  11, 
Lord  Howe  sailed  with  a  powerful  fleet  for  the  relief  of  Gibraltar,  and 
landed  his  troops  and  stores  October  13-18. 


1782.]  IMMERSED  IN  THE  ROMAN  EMPIRE.  21 

youth)  is  a  Lord  of  the  Treasury,  an  office  which  was  formerly 
the  reward  of  twenty  years'  able  and  faithful  service.  The 
Minister  has  not  lost,  for  he  never  possessed,  the  public  con- 
fidence, and  Lord  N[orth],  if  he  chuses  to  act,  has  the  balance 
of  the  country  in  his  hands.  A  propos  of  the  Eliots  they  are 
Gtill  in  town.  We  meet  seldom,  but  with  the  utmost  propriety 
and  equal  regard. 

My  private  life  is  a  gentle  and  not  unpleasing  continuation 
of  my  old  labours,  and  I  am  again  involved,  as  I  shall  be  for  some 
years,  in  the  decline  and  fall  of  the  Roman  Empire.  Some  fame, 
some  profit,  and  the  assurance  of  daily  amusement  encourage  me 
to  persist.  I  am  glad  you  are  pleased  with  Mr.  Hayley's  poem  ; 
perhaps  he  might  have  been  less  diffuse,  but  his  sense  is  fine  and 
his  verse  is  harmonious. — Mrs.  Porten  is  just  returned  from  a  six 
weeks'  excursion  in  lodgings  at  Windsor,  which  she  enjoyed  (the 
Terrace,  the  Air,  and  the  Royal  family)  with  all  the  spirit  of 
youth.  Her  elder  brother  is  quiet  in  his  new  employment  and 
apartments  in  Kensington  palace.  I  envy  him  the  latter,  and 
had  there  been  no  Revolution  I  might  have  obtained  a  similar 
advantage.  At  present  I  am  on  the  ground,  but  the  weather  may 
change,  and  compared  with  recent  darkness,  the  clouds  are 
beginning  to  break  away. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

445. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Bentinck  Street,  Sept.  14, 1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

As  you  suffered  by  the  long  winter,  I  may  reasonably, 
as  I  warmly,  hope  that  your  health  and  spirits  have  been  per- 
manently restored  by  the  milder  Spring  or  Autumn  which  this 
month  has  introduced : — For  many  reasons  you  will  be  surprised, 
though  I  think  pleased,  to  hear  that  I  have  fixed  myself  for  this 
season  in  a  country  villa  of  Hampton  court.  My  friend  Mr. 
Hamilton  (I  must  distinguish  him  by  the  impertinent  epithet 
©f  '  single  speech ')  has  very  obUgingly  lent  me  a  ready  furnished 
house  close  to  the  Palace,  and  opening  by  a  private  door  into  the 


22  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1782. 

Royal  garden,  which  is  maintained  for  my  use  but  not  at  my 
expence.  The  air  and  exercise,  good  roads  and  neighbourhood, 
the  opportunity  of  being  in  London  at  any  time  in  two  hours, 
and  the  temperate  mixture  of  society  and  study,  adapt  this  new 
scene  very  much  to  my  wishes,  and  must  entirely  remove  your 
kind  apprehensions  of  my  injuring  my  health  (which  I  have 
never  done)  by  excessive  labour.  I  find  or  make  many  acquaint- 
ance, and  among  others  I  have  visited  your  old  friend  Mrs. 
Manhood  (Ashby)  at  Isleworth  in  her  pleasant  summer-house 
on  the  Thames.  She  overwhelms  me  with  civility,  but  you  need 
not  indulge  either  hopes  or  fears:  as  I  hear  she  is  going  to 
accept  Sir  William  Draper^  for  her  third  husband. 

You  will  naturally  suppose,  and  will  not  I  think  be  displeased 
that  I  should  enjoy  this  new  and  unexpected  situation  as  long  as 
the  fine  weather  continues,  and  our  past  hardships  encourage  us 
to  depend  on  the  favour,  at  least  the  first  favours  of  the  month  of 
October.  Beyond  that  period  the  prospect  in  every  sense  of  the 
word  is  cloudy,  and  my  future  motions  will  be  partly  regulated 
by  parliament,  and  the  intanglement  of  some  private  pursuits  with 
public  affairs.  I  still  flatter  myself  with  the  hope  of  securing 
two  or  three  weeks  for  Bath ;  but  if  I  should  again  delay  that 
visit  till  Christmas,  I  shall  prove  my  perfect  confidence  in  your 
indulgent  friendship,  and  in  your  firm  belief  of  my  tender  attach- 
ment, which  can  alone  justify  such  freedom  of  conduct.  Of  the 
Shefiields  I  know  little,  seldom  hear  from,  and  am  totally  ignorant 
when  I  shall  see  them.  The  Eliots  are  gone  into  Cornwall. 
They  say  that  the  son  is  going  to  marry  Lady  Sarah  Pitt,^  sister 
to  his  intimate  friend  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 

From  the  little  I  have  read  I  agree  with  you  about  Gilbert 
Stuart's  3  book,  but  I  cannot  forgive  your  indifference  and  almost 

>  General  Sir  William  Draper  is  best  known  from  the  attack  upon  him 
by  Junius,  his  share  in  the  defence  of  Fort  St.  Philip  in  Minorca  (1781-2), 
and  his  subsequent  charges  against  the  Governor.  He  was  twice  married, 
but,  after  the  death  of  his  second  wife  in  1778,  remained  a  widower.  He 
died  at  Bath  in  1787. 

*  Edward  James  Eliot  married,  in  September,  1785,  Lady  Harriet  Pitt, 
second  daughter  of  the  first  Earl  of  Chatham.  She  died  September  25, 
178G,  leaving  a  daughter,  born  September  20,  1786.  Edward  Eliot  died  in 
1797,  predeceasing  his  father. 

3  Gilbert  Stuart  (1742-1786)  published  in  1780  his  History  of  the  Estab- 
lishment of  Religion  in  Scotland,  1517-1561 ;  and  in  1782  the  History  of 
Scotland  from  the  lieformation  till  the  Death  of  Queen  Mary.   His  best-known 


1782.]  HIS  HAMPTON  COURT  VILLA.  23 

aversion  to  one  of  the  most  amiable  men,  and  masterly  composi- 
tions in  the  world. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Most  truly  youi'S, 

E.    Gr. 

I  lay  in  town  last  night,  and  am  just  setting  out  for  Hampton 
Court. 

N.B. — I  never  travel  after  dark,  but  our  dangers  are  almost 
over. 

446. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

September  29th,  1782. 

I  should  like  sometimes  to  hear  whether  you  survive  the  scenes 
of  action  and  danger  in  which  a  Dragoon  is  continually  involved. 
What  a  difference  between  the  life  of  a  Dragoon  and  that  of  a 
Philosopher !  and  I  will  freely  own  that  I  (the  Philosopher)  am 
much  better  satisfied  with  my  own  independent  and  tranquil 
situation,  in  which  I  have  always  something  to  do,  without  ever 
being  obliged  to  do  any  thing.  The  Hampton  Court  Villa  has 
answered  my  expectation,  and  proved  no  small  addition  to  my 
comforts  ;  so  that  I  am  resolved  next  summer  to  hire,  borrow,  or 
steal,  either  the  same,  or  something  of  the  same  kind.  Every 
morning  I  walk  a  mile  or  more  before  breakfast,  read  and  write 
quantum  siifficit,  mount  my  chaise  and  visit  in  the  neighbourhood, 
accept  some  invitations,  and  escape  others,  use  the  Lucaus  as  my 
daily  bread,  dine  pleasantly  at  home  or  sociably  abroad,  reserve  for 
study  an  hour  or  two  in  the  evening,  lye  in  town  regularly  once  a 
week,  &c.  &c.  &c.  I  have  anounced  to  Mrs.  G.  my  new  Arrange- 
ments ;  the  certainty  that  October  will  be  fine,  and  my  encreasing 
doubts  whether  I  shall  be  able  to  reach  Bath  before  Christmas. 
Do  you  intend  (but  how  can  you  intend  any  thing  ?)  to  pass  the 
winter  under  Canvas  ?  Perhaps  under  the  veil  of  Hampton  Court 
I  may  lurk  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  at  Sheffield,  if  the  enraged 
Lady  or  cat  does  not  shut  the  doors  against  me. 

The  Warden^  passed  through  in  his  way  to  Dover.     He  is 

work  was  his  View  of  Society  in  Europe  (1778),  The  story  of  his  attack 
on  Robert  Henry,  and  his  attempt  to  ruin  him,  are  related  in  Disraeli's 
Calamities  of  Authors.  If  Gibbon  alludes  to  Stuart,  Mrs.  Gibbon  seems  to 
have  been  justified  in  her  prejudice. 

'  Lord  North  was  Warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports. 


24  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1782. 

not  so  fat,  and  more  chearful  than  ever.  I  had  not  any  private 
conversation  with  him ;  but  he  clearly  holds  the  balance  ;  unless 
he  falls  asleep  and  lets  it  fall  from  his  hand.  The  Pandsemonium 
(as  I  understand)  does  not  meet  till  the  26th  of  November.  I 
feel  with  you  that  a  nich  is  grown  of  higher  value,  but  think  that 
only  an  additional  argument  for  disposing  of  it.  And  so  by  this 
time  Lord  L.^  is  actually  turned  off.  Do  you  know  his  partner 
(Miss  Courtenay,  the  Lord's  sister),  about  thirty,  only  £4000, 
not  handsome,  but  very  pleasant.  I  am  at  a  loss  where  to  address 
my  condoleance,  I  would  say  congratulation.  Town  is  more  a 
desert  than  I  ever  knew  it.  I  arrived  yesterday,  dined  at  Sir 
Joshua's  with  a  tolerable  party ;  the  chaise  is  now  at  the  door  ; 
I  dine  at  Richmond,  lye  at  Hampton,  &c.    Adieu. 

E.  G. 


447. 
To  his  Stqimother. 

Hampton  Court,  October  1st,  1782. 

My  dear  Madam, 

I  feel  your  anxiety,  and  am  impatient  to  assure  you 
that  the  report  of  your  officious  visitor  is  absolutely  without 
foundation.  I  had  not  any  complaints  when  I  came  down  to 
this  place  ;  but  the  air,  exercise  and  dissipation  have  given  me 
fresh  spirits  ;  and  I  should  be  apt  to  fix  on  the  last  month  as  the 
part  of  my  life  in  which  I  have  enjoyed  the  most  perfect  health. 
You  may  depend  on  my  word  of  honour,  that  in  case  of  any  real 
alarm,  you  shall  hear  from  myself  or  from  Caplen. — Excuse 
brevity,  as  I  save  a  day,  perhaps  more,  by  sending  Caplen  with 
Duplicates  to  London,  one  copy  for  the  post,  the  other  to  take  the 
chance  of  greater  dispatch  by  the  coach.  I  wish  to  know  what 
you  think  of  me  and  my  schemes  ;  if  you  are  not  perfectly  satis- 
fied with  my  confidence,  you  may  be  somewhat  displeased  with  my 
seeming  neglect.     I  fear  we  shall  not  meet  till  Christmas. 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

*  Lord  Loughborough  married  as  his  second  wife,  on  September  12,  1782, 
the  Hon.  Charlotte  Courtenay,  daughter  of  the  first  Viscount  Courtenay. 


1782.]  RELIEF  OF  GIBRALTAR.  25 


448. 

To  Lord  Sheffield  at  Coxheath  Camp. 

Bentinck  Street,  October  14th,  1782. 

*0n  the  approach  of  winter,  my  paper  house  of  Hampton 
becomes  less  comfortable  ;  my  visits  to  Bentinck  Street  grow 
longer  and  more  frequent,  and  the  end  of  next  week  will  restore 
me  to  the  town,  with  a  hvely  wish,  however,  to  repeat  the  same, 
or  a  similar  experiment,  next  Summer.  I  admire  the  assurance 
with  which  you  propose  a  month's  residence  at  Sheffield,  when 
you  are  not  sure  of  being  allowed  three  days.  Here  it  is  currently 
reported,  that  Camps  will  not  separate  till  Lord  Howe's  return 
from  Gibraltar,^  and  as  yet  we  have  no  news  of  his  arrival. 
Perhaps,  indeed,  you  have  more  intimate  correspondence  with 
your  old  school-fellow.  Lord  Slielburne,  and  akeady  know  the 
hour  of  your  deliverance.  I  should  like  to  be  informed.  As 
Lady  S.  has  entirely  forgot  me,  I  shall  have  the  pleasure  of  form- 
ing a  new  acquaintance.  I  have  often  thought  of  writing,  but  it 
is  now  too  late  to  repent. 

I  am  at  a  loss  what  to  say  or  think  about  our  Parliamentary 
state.  A  certain  late  Secretary  of  Ireland,^  the  husband  of  Polly 
Jones,  reckons  the  House  of  Commons  thus :  Minister  140, 
Reynard  90,  Boreas  120,  the  rest  unknown,  or  uncertain.  The 
last  of  the  three,  by  self  or  agents,  talks  too  much  of  absence, 
neutrality,  moderation.    I  still  think  he  will  discard  the  game. 

I  am  not  in  such  a  fury  with  the  letter  of  American  indepen- 
dence ;  ^   but  it  seems  ill-timed  and  useless  ;  and  I  am  much 

'  Lord  Howe  arrived  at  Gibraltar  early  in  October.  On  September  13 
the  final  effort  of  the  French  and  Spaniards  to  capture  the  Rock  had  been 
repulsed  by  Sir  George  Eliott,  who  destroyed  their  floating  batteries.  Lord 
Howe  returned  to  Portsmouth  November  15,  1782. 

*  Probably  William  Eden,  who  had  been  secretary  to  the  Earl  of  Carlisle 
during  his  Lord-Lieutenancy  of  Ireland.  But  he  married  Eleanor,  daughter 
of  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  and  sister  of  the  first  Earl  of  Minto.  Eden,  who  was 
created  Lord  Auckland  in  the  Irish  peerage  in  1789,  was  advanced  to  an 
English  peerage  in  1793,  and  died  in  1814. 

*  The  reference  probably  is  to  the  letter  which  Fox,  before  his  resignation, 
wrote  to  the  American  agents  in  Paris,  oflering  "  to  recognize  the  independence 
of  the  United  States  in  the  first  instance,  and  not  to  reserve  it  as  a  condition  of 
peace."  Fox  interpreted  this  as  an  absolute  recognition  of  American  in- 
dependence ;  Lord  Shelburne  and  his  colleagues  held  that  it  was  a  conditional 
recognition  dependent  on  peace  being  concluded. 


26  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1782. 

entertained  with  the  Metaphysical  disputes  between  Government 
and  secession  about  the  meaning  of  it.  Lord  Lough[borough] 
will  be  in  town  Sunday  sen-night.  I  long  to  see  him  and  Co. 
I  think  he  will  take  a  very  decided  part.  If  he  could  throw 
aside  his  Gown,  he  would  make  a  noble  Leader.  The  East  India 
news  are  excellent ;  the  French  gone  to  the  Mauritius,  Heyder 
desirous  of  peace,  the  Nizam  and  Mahrattas  our  friends,  and  70 
Lack  of  Rupees  in  the  Bengal  treasury,  while  we  were  voting  the 
recall  of  Hastings.^    Adieu.     Write  soon, 

E.  G. 


449. 

To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  October  31st,  1782. 

Although  I  am  provoked  (it  is  always  right  to  begin  first) 
with  your  long  and  unaccountable  silence,  yet  I  cannot  help 
wishing  (a  foolish  weakness)  to  learn  whether  you  and  the  two 
infants  are  still  alive,  and  what  have  been  the  summer  amuse- 
ments of  your  widowed  and  their  orphan  state.  Some  indirect 
intelhgence  inclines  me  to  suspect  that  the  Baron  himself  has 
quitted  before  this  time  a  house  of  Canvas  for  one  of  brick,  and 
that  he  enjoys  a  short  interval  between  the  fatigues  of  War 
and  those  of  Government.  Should  he  happen  to  find  himself  in 
your  neighbourhood  you  may  inform  him  that  Hugonin  (good 
creature)  came  to  town  purposely  on  my  business  and  passed  three 
hours  with  me  this  morning.  Harris  has  resigned  his  Case  of  the 
conflagration,  and  either  by  a  sale  to  Lord  Stawell  or  by  a  new 
Tenant  we  shall  make  it  rather  a  profitable  affair. 

You  have  doubtless  received  very  accurate  accounts  of  my 

'  In  September,  1780,  Hyder  Ali  invaded  the  Madras  district;  Warren 
Hastings  at  once  negotiated  peace  with  the  Mahrattas  in  order  that  lie 
might  send  all  available  troops  to  Madras.  Sir  Eyre  Coote  defeated  Hyder 
at  Porto  Novo  (July  1, 1781)  and  at  Pollilore  (August  27).  The  full  Treasury 
was  the  result  of  the  recent  overthrow  of  Cheyte  Singh,  Rajah  of  Benares, 
and  the  spoliation  of  the  Begums  of  Oude.  In  the  summer  of  1782  the  House 
of  Commons  resolved  that  it  was  the  duty  of  the  Court  of  Directors  to  recall 
Hastings.  In  compliance  with  this  resolution  the  directors  voted  an  order 
of  recall,  but  afterwards  rescinded  it  and  maintained  the  Governor-General 
at  his  post.     See  note  to  Letter  487,  on  page  85  of  this  volume. 


1782.]  ENTHUSIASM  FOR  SIR  GEORGE  ELIOTT.  27 

proceedings  from  the  Cambridges  by  which  channel  I  have  likewise 
obtained  very  frequent  narratives  of  your  life  and  conversation, 
and  this  mutual  Gazette  has  contributed  not  a  little  to  stifle 
the  reproaches  of  my  conscience.  In  my  excursions  round  the 
Hampton  neighbourhood,  I  have  often  visited  and  dined  with 
them,  and  found  him  properly  sensible  of  his  happyness  in  the 
absence  of  his  wife  :  indeed  I  never  saw  a  man  more  improved  by 
any  fortunate  event.  My  campaign,  and  it  has  been  a  pleasant 
one,  is  now  closed,  but  in  the  time  which  remains  before  the 
opening  of  our  Pandemonium,  I  should  not  dislike  to  breathe 
for  a  week  or  ten  days  the  air  of  Sheffield  Place,  and  as  the 
Lord  will  be  accessible  in  town  before  Christmas,  my  attack 
(according  to  modern  rules)  will  be  chiefly  designed  for  the 
Lady.  About  Wednesday  or  Thursday  next  would  be  the  day 
that  I  should  think  of  moving,  but  I  wish  to  be  informed  how 
far  such  a  plan  may  consist  (as  the  Scotch  say)  with  other 
arrangements.  Adieu.  Is  not  Elliot  ^  a  glorious  old  fellow  ? 
We  suspend  our  judgment  of  Lord  Howe,  yet  I  like  the  prospect. 

I  embrace,  &c., 

E.  G. 

450. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

November  7th,  1782. 

Deab  Madam, 

Last  week  I  finished  my  Hampton  Court  expedition, 
and  think  myself  obliged  to  the  person  and  to  the  accident  which 
have  thrown  that  unexpected  but  not  unpleasing  variety  into  my 
Summer  life.  I  am  now  fixed  in  town  till  Christmas,  or  if  Lord 
Sheffield  who  has  quitted  his  camp  should  drag  me  into  Sussex,  it 
can  be  only  for  three  or  four  days. 

The  Parliamentary  campaign  is  approaching  very  fast,^  and  a 
very  singular  one  it  must  be  from  the  conflict  of  three  parties, 
each  of  which  will  be  exposed  in  its  turn  to  the  direct  or  oblique 

'  Sir  George  Augustus  Eliott,  created  Lord  Heathfield  for  his  defeuce 
of  Gibraltar. 

'  Parliament,  which  had  been  prorogued  to  November  26,  was  further 
prorogued  to  December  5,  in  order  that  the  negotiations  for  peace  might 
be  completed.  Peace  was  provisionally  signed  with  the  United  States  at 
Paris  on  November  30,  1782. 


28  .  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1782. 

attacks  of  the  other  two.  As  a  matter  of  curiosity  I  shall  derive 
some  gratification  from  my  silent  seat,  but  at  present  I  do  not 
perceive  its  use  in  any  other  light.  From  honour,  gratitude  and 
principle  I  am  and  shall  be  attached  to  Lord  N.,  who  will  lead  a 
very  respectable  force  into  the  field,  but  I  much  doubt  whether 
matters  are  ripe  for  either  conquest  or  coalition,  and  the  havock 
which  Burke's  bill  has  made  of  places,  &c.,  encreases  the  diffi- 
culties of  a  new  arrangement.  However  a  month  or  two  may 
change  the  face  of  things,  and  the  faces  of  men. 

Among  those  men  surely  Will  Pitt  the  second  is  the  most 
extraordinary.''     I  know  you  never  liked  the  father,  and  I  have  no 

*  Pitt's  first  meeting  with  Gibbon  is  thus  described  by  Sir  James  Bland 
Burges,  Bart,  (Letters  and  Correspondence,  pp.  59-61).  The  dinner  was  given 
in  Lincoln's  Inn  to  the  oflBcers  of  the  Northumberland  Militia,  who  were 
quartered  in  the  Inn  during  the  Gordon  Riots. 

"I  invited  the  four  military  gentlemen,  our  committee,  and  six  other 
persons  the  best  qualified  I  could  meet  with,  among  whom  were  my  father, 
Lord  Carmarthen,  and  Mr.  Gibbon,  the  historian,  who  was  then  at  the  zenith 
of  his  fame,  and  who  certainly  was  not  at  all  backward  in  availing  himself 
of  the  deference  universally  shown  to  him,  by  taking  both  the  lead,  and  a 
very  ample  share  of  the  conversation,  in  whatever  company  he  might  honour 
with  his  presence.  His  conversation  was  not,  indeed,  what  Dr.  Johnson 
would  have  called  talh.  There  was  no  interchange  of  ideas,  for  no  one  had 
a  chance  of  replying,  so  fugitive,  so  variable,  was  his  mode  of  discoursing, 
which  consisted  of  points,  anecdotes,  and  epigrammatic  thrusts,  all  more  or 
less  to  the  purpose,  and  all  pleasantly  said  with  a  French  air  and  manner 
which  gave  them  great  piquancy,  but  which  were  withal  so  desultory  and 
unconnected  that,  though  each  separately  was  extremely  amusing,  the 
attention  of  his  auditors  sometimes  flagged  before  his  own  resources  were  ex- 
hausted. .  .  .  Hehadjust  concluded,  however,  one  of  his  best  foreign  anecdotes, 
in  which  he  had  introduced  some  of  the  fashionable  levities  of  political 
doctrine  then  prevalent,  and,  with  his  customary  tap  on  the  lid  of  his  snuff- 
box, was  looking  round  to  receive  our  tribute  of  applause,  when  a  deep-toned 
but  clear  voice  was  heard  from  the  bottom  of  the  table,  very  calmly  and 
civilly  impugning  the  correctness  of  the  narrative,  and  the  propriety  of  the 
doctrines  of  which  it  liad  been  made  tlie  vehicle.  The  historian,  turning  a 
disdainful  glance  towards  the  quarter  whence  the  voice  proceeded,  saw,  for 
the  first  time,  a  tall,  thin,  and  rather  ungainly-looking  young  man,  who 
now  sat  quietly  and  silently  eating  some  fruit.  There  was  nothing  very  pre- 
possessing or  very  formidable  in  his  exterior,  but,  as  the  few  words  he  had 
uttered  appeared  to  have  made  a  considerable  impression  on  the  company, 
Mr.  Gibbon,  I  suppose,  thought  himself  bound  to  maintain  his  honour  by 
suppressing  such  an  attempt  to  dispute  his  supremacy.  He  accordingly 
undertook  the  defence  of  the  propositions  in  question,  and  a  very  animated 
debate  took  place  between  him  and  his  youthful  antagonist,  Mr.  Pitt,  and  for 
some  time  was  conducted  with  great  talent  and  brilliancy  on  both  sides.    At 


1782.]  WILLIAM  PITT  AND  MRS.   SIDDONS.  29 

connection  public  or  private  with  the  son.  Yet  we  cannot  refuse 
to  admire  a  youth  of  four  and  twenty  whom  eloquence  and  real 
merit  have  already  made  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  without  his 
promotion  occasioning  either  surprize  or  censure. 

We  are  much  indebted  to  your  Bath  Theatre  for  j\Irs, 
Siddons  :  ^  two  years  ago,  and  in  the  part  of  Lady  Townley, 
she  did  not  strike  me :  but  I  saw  her  last  night  with  the  most 
exquisite  pleasure.  She  gave  sense  and  spirit  to  a  wretched  play 
(the  Fatal  Marriage),  and  displayed  every  power  of  voice,  action, 
and  countenance  to  a  degree  which  left  me  nothing  to  wish.  To- 
morrow I  promise  myself  still  more  satisfaction  from  Jane  Shore, 
as  the  character  is  more  worthy  of  her  talents.  Adieu,  Dear 
Madam.  Inform  me  that  the  beginning  of  the  winter  has  not 
affected  your  health.  Whatever  may  be  the  state  of  my  name- 
sake, I  hope  at  Christmas  to  bring  you  a  sound  body,  and  a  mind 
not  dissatisfied  with  external  things,  because  it  is  not  dissatisfied 
with  itself. 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

length  the  genius  of  the  young  man  prevailed  over  that  of  his  senior,  who, 
finding  himself  driven  into  a  comer  from  which  there  was  no  escape,  made 
some  excuse  for  rising  from  the  table  and  walked  out  of  the  room.  I  followed 
him,  and,  finding  that  he  was  looking  for  his  hat,  I  tried  to  persuade  him  to 
return  to  his  seat.  '  By  no  means,'  said  he.  *  That  young  gentleman  is,  I 
have  no  doubt,  extremely  ingenious  and  agreeable,  but  I  must  acknowledge' 
that  his  style  of  conversation  is  not  exactly  what  I  am  accustomed  to,  so  you 
must  positively  excuse  me.'  And  away  he  went  in  high  dudgeon,  notwith- 
standing that  his  friend  [Lord  Sheffield]  had  come  to  my  assistance." 

'  Mrs.  Siddons  first  appeared  on  the  London  stage  in  December,  1775, 
when  she  acted  Portia  at  Drury  Lane.  She  gained  no  great  success,  and  in 
June,  1776,  received  her  dismissal  from  the  manngers.  In  the  provincial 
theatres,  and  especially  at  the  Bath  Theatre,  then  managed  by  Palmer,  she 
became  famous.  At  Bath,  in  1780,  she  had  twice  acted  the  part  of  Lady 
Townly  in  Vanbrugh's  and  Gibber's  play  of  The  Provoked  Husband.  In 
1782  she  reappeared  in  London  (October  10)  at  Drury  Lane,  in  the  part  of 
Isabella  in  Southerne's  tragedy  of  The  Fatal  Marriage.  On  October  30  slie 
took  the  part  of  Euphrasia  in  Murphy's  Grecian  Daughter.  On  November  8 
she  played  Jane  Shore  in  Rowe's  tragedy  of  tliat  name.  W.  Hamilton's, 
picture  of  Mrs.  Siddons  as  Isabella  belongs  to  the  nation. 


30  GIBBON'S  COERESPONDENCE,  [1782. 

451. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

December  21st,  1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  write  a  little  letter  on  little  paper  because  I  shall 
soon  have  the  pleasure  of  conversing  with  you  in  a  less  laborious 
manner.  Next  Thursday  I  propose  to  begin  my  journey  for 
Bath,  but  as  the  times  (in  a  public  and  private  light)  are  very 
hard,  I  shall  travel  with  my  own  horses,  lye  two  nights  on  the 
road,  and  reach  the  Belvidere  for  a  late  dinner  Saturday.  You 
will  be  so  good  as  to  secure  me  a  lodging ;  the  nearness  to  your 
house  will  be  its  best  recommendation,  as  you  are  my  sole  induce- 
ment. If  any  business  should  detain  me  two  or  three  days  longer 
in  town,  you  may  depend  on  the  earliest  notice. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

452. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Bentinck  Street,  December  26th,  1782. 

Dear  Madam, 

It  was  not  in  my  power  to  set  out  this  morning  (Thurs- 
day), and  therefore  I  cannot  hope  to  reach  Bath  Saturday.  I  am 
not  perfectly  sure  whether  Sunday  or  Monday  will  be  the  day  of 
my  arrival :  for  which  reason  I  shall  eat  a  mutton  chop  at  the 
Devizes,  and  beg  you  would  not  wait  dinner  for  me. 

1  am 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  G. 

453. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Tuesday  evening,  1782. 

*I  have  designed  writing  every  post. — The  air  of  London  is 
admirable ;  my  complaints  have  vanished,  and  the  Gout  still 
respects  me.  Lord  L.,  with  whom  I  passed  an  entire  day,  is  very 
well  satisfied  with  his  Irish  expedition,  and  found  the  barbarous 


1783.]  THE  DEARTH  OF  NEWS.  31 

people  very  kind  to  him  :  the  castle  is  strong,  but  the  volunteers 
are  formidable.  London  is  dead,  and  all  intelligence  so  totally- 
extinct,  that  the  loss  of  an  army  would  be  a  favourable  incident. 
We  have  not  even  the  advantage  of  Shipwrecks,  which  must  soon, 
with  the  society  of  Ham[iIton]  and  Lady  Shelley,  become  the  only 
pleasures  of  Brighton.  My  lady  is  precious,  and  deserves  to 
shine  in  London,  when  she  regains  her  palace.  The  workmen 
are  slow,  but  I  hear  that  the  Minister  talks  of  hiring  another 
house  after  Christmas.  Adieu,  till  Monday  seven-night.*  Shall 
Caplin  get  you  a  lodging  ? 

454. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Bentinck  Street,  Jan.  16th,  1783. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  reached  London  after  an  easy  and  pleasant  journey, 
andi  am  now  seated  in  my  library  before  a  good  fire,  and  among 
three  or  four  thousand  of  my  old  acquaintance.  The  prospect  of 
my  future  life  is  not  gloomy :  yet  I  should  esteem  myself  a  very 
happy  man  indeed,  if  every  fortnight  could  be  of  as  pure  a  white 
as  the  last  which  I  have  spent  at  Bath  in  the  society  of  the  most 
sincere  as  well  as  amiable  of  my  friends. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

455. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

January  17th,  1783. 

*As  I  arrived  about  five  o'Clock  on  "Wednesday  last,  we  were 
some  time  in  town  in  mutual  ignorance.  Unlucky  enough :  yet 
our  loss  will  be  speedily  repaired.  Your  reason  for  not  writing  is 
worthy  of  an  Irish  Baron.  You  thought  Sarah  might  be  at  Bath, 
because  you  directed  letters  to  her  at  Clifton,  near  Bristol ;  where 
indeed  I  saw  her  in  a  delightful  situation,  swept  by  the  winter 
winds,  and  scorched  by  the  summer  sun.  A  nobler  reason  for 
your  silence  would  be  the  care  of  the  public  jmpers,  to  record 
Your  steps,  words,  and  actions,    I  was  pleased  with  your  Coventry 


32  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

oration  :  a  panegyric  on  the  Hertford  family  ^  is  a  subject  entirely 
new,  and  which  no  orator  before  yourself  would  have  dared  to 
undertake.  You  have  acted  with  prudence  and  dignity  in  casting 
away  the  military  yoke,*  yet  even  if  I  had  a  right  I  should  try  to 
moderate  my  indignation.  *This  next  summer  you  will  sit  down 
(if  you  can  sit)  in  the  long-lost  character  of  a  country  Gentleman. 
For  my  own  part,  my  late  journey  has  only  confirmed  me  in 
the  opinion,  that  No.  7  Bentinck-street  is  the  best  house  in  the 
World.  I  find  that  peace  and  war  alternately,  and  daily,  take 
their  turns  of  conversation,  and  this  (Friday)  is  the  pacific  day. 
Next  week  ^  we  shall  probably  hear  some  questions  on  that  head 
very  strongly  asked,  and  very  foolishly  answered.  I  embrace,  &c. 
Give  me  a  line  by  return  of  post,  and  possibly  I  may  visit 
Downing-street  on  Monday  evening ;  late,  however,  as  I  am 
engaged  to  dinner  and  cards.    Adieu.* 


E.  G. 


456. 
To  his  Stepmother. 
Dear  Madam, 


Feb.  19th,  1783. 


On  Monday  or  rather  Tuesday  last  we  gave  the  first 
blow  to  Lord  S.'s  Government  by  a  majority  of  sixteen  in  the 
House  of  0.  on  the  Peace,  which  will  be  followed  by  new  and 
decisive  attacks.^  The  victory  was  obtained  by  the  union  of  Lord 
North  with  Fox  and  the  Rockingham  party. — You  would  have 
blamed  me  for  going,  or  rather  being  carried,  down  with  flannels 
and  crutches,  and  sitting  all  night  till  past  eight  in  the  morning  : 

*  The  "Hertford  family"  included  Francis,  first  Earl  and  Marquis  of 
Hertford ;  his  brother,  General  Conway ;  his  eldest  son,  Lord  Beauchamp, 
M.P.  for  Orford ;  and  his  youngest  son,  William  Conway,  who  was  at  this 
time  standing  at  a  by-election  for  Coventry. 

*  The  preliminaries  of  peace  were  signed  at  Versailles  with  France  and 
Spain,  January  20,  1783,  and  Parliament  met,  after  the  Christmas  recess, 
January  21. 

3  On  Monday,  February  17,  1783,  an  address  of  thanks  to  his  Majesty 
for  the  peace  was  moved  by  Thomas  Pitt,  M.P.  for  Old  Sarum,  and  William 
Wilberforce,  M.P.  for  Kingston-upon-HuU.  Amendments  were  moved  by  Lord 
J.  Cavendish  and  Lord  North,  which  were  carried  at  8  a.m.  on  Tuesday, 
February  18,  by  22-t  to  208.  On  February  21,  a  resolution,  proposed  by 
Lord  J.  Cavendish,  that  the  concessions  made  to  the  United  States  were- 
excessive,  was  carried  by  207  to  190. 


1783.]  EESIGNATION  OF   LORD  SHELBURNE.  33 

but  I  have  the  pleasure  of  assuring  you  that  the  heat  and  fatigue 
have  done  me  no  harm,  that  I  have  ah-eady  changed  my  two 
crutches  into  a  single  stick,  which  I  hope  to  throw  away  in  three 
•or  four  days.  This  fit  of  the  Gout,  though  severe,  has  been  short, 
regular,  and  I  think  beneficial.     Adieu. 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

457. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

March  29th,  1783. 

Dear  Madam, 

Will  you  credit  and  excuse  the  cause  of  my  delay  ?  I 
came  home  late  and  found  your  letter  on  my  table  :  meaning 
to  read  it  the  next  morning,  I  slipt  it  into  my  drawer,  and  till  this 
moment  it  escaped  my  memory  and  my  eye. — I  would  not  bribe 
you  to  prefer  my  silence,  yet  you  may  always  take  it  as  an  assured 
proof  that  the  body  Gibbon  is  in  a  perfect  state  of  health  and 
spirits,  as  it  is  most  truly  at  the  present  moment,  and  since  the 
entire  retreat  of  my  Gout.  The  state  of  public  affairs  is  Anarchy 
without  example  and  without  end,^  and  if  the  King  does  not 
decide  before  Monday,  the  consequences  to  the  House  of  Commons 
will  be  fatal  indeed.  Every  day  produces  its  own  lye,  and  nothing 
that  is  probable  is  true.  Yet  I  believe  that  Pitt  will  not  accept, 
and  that  the  Coalition  must  succeed. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

458. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

March  Slat,  1783. 

Dear  Madam, 

In  my  last,  written  like  this  in  a  very  great  hurry,  I 
nsed  (if  I  am  not  mistaken)  an  expression  which  at  a  distance 

*  On  February  24,  1783,  Lord  Shelburne  resigned  office  in  consequence  of 
the  vote  of  February  21 ;  and  Pitt,  as  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  publicly 
stated  that  he  only  retained  his  post  till  his  successor  was  appointed.  On 
March  24,  Mr.  Coke,  M.P.  for  Norfolk,  moved  and  carried  an  address  to  the 
king,  asking  for  the  appointment  of  a  new  administration. 

VOL.  TI.  D 


34  GIBBON'S  COKRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

might  alarm  you  too  much.  The  fatal  Monday  is  past  without 
any  fatal  consequences,  yet  no  Administration  is  appointed ;  but 
as  Pitt  has  formally  resigned,^  the  K.  will  probably  yield  without 
expecting  a  second  and  more  serious  address  on  Thursday. — I 
re  Joyce  to  hear  that  you  have  surmounted  your  complaint,  and 
hope  you  will  feel  every  day  the  genial  influence  of  the  spring. 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

459. 

To  Ms  Stepmother. 

May  5th,  1783. 

Dear  Madam, 

My  cousin  Robert  Barrel  gave  me  great  pleasure  by 
the  information  that  he  thought  you  perfectly  recovered  from 
your  late  indisposition.  I  depend  on  his  testimony,  which  removed 
all  my  doubts  and  suspicions  of  your  giving  too  favourable  an 
account  of  yourself.  For  my  own  part,  after  paying  my  annual 
tribute  to  the  gout,  I  find  myself  in  the  same  even  course  of 
health  and  spirits  which  I  have  enjoyed  for  many  years.  The 
business  of  the  house  of  Commons  has  been  postponed  by  waiting 
first  for  peace  and  afterwards  for  Government ;  the  long  hot  days 
will  be  crowded,  and  we  shall  wrangle  with  a  strong  June  sun 

*  Pitt,  on  March  31,  resigned  the  ofiSce  of  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 
On  April  2  the  new  administration  was  formed ;  the  principal  members 
were — 

The  Duke  of  Portland    First  Lord  of  the  Treasury. 

,,    _,  \  Secretaries  of  State. 

Mr.  Fox        / 

Lord  J.  Cavendish  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer. 

Lord  Keppel  First  Commissioner  of  tlie  Admiralty. 

Lord  Stormont  President  of  the  Council. 

Lord  Carlisle  Lord  Privy  Seal. 

Lord  Townshend  Master  of  the  Ordnance. 

Mr.  Burke  Paymaster-General. 

Lord  Northington  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland. 

The  Great  Seal  was  put  in  commission.  The  first  seven  formed  the  Cabinet. 
Lord  Townshend  said  "  he  had  always  foreseen  the  Coalition  Ministry 
could  not  last,  for  he  was  at  Court  when  Mr.  Fox  kissed  hands,  and  he  observed 
George  III.  turn  back  his  eyes  and  ears  just  like  the  horse  at  Astley's,  when 
the  tailor  he  had  determined  to  throw  was  getting  on  him"  (Correepondence 
of  C.  J.  Fox,  vol.  ii.  p.  28). 


1783.]  THE  COALITION  MINISTRY.  35 

shining  through  the  windows  to  reproach  our  folly.^  I  have 
ah-eady  made  one  short  visit  to  my  Cottage  at  Hampton  Court ; 
I  propose  every  week  to  steal  away  like  a  Citizen  from  Saturday 
till  Monday,  and  persuade  myself  that  I  shall  be  revived  by  such 
excursions.  You  express  a  kind  indignation  against  the  persons 
for  whose  sake  I  acted  the  devil  upon  two  sticks.  Notwithstand- 
ing their  apparent  neglect  I  have  reason  to  think  them  well 
inclined  towards  me,  and  have  even  received  some  assurances,  but 
as  every  thing  that  depends  on  ministers  is  precarious  and  uncer- 
tain, I  would  not  raise  too  much  either  your  hopes  or  my  own. 
If  any  situation  -  permanent  and  proper  could  be  obtained,  incom- 
patible with  a  seat  in  parliament,  I  should  retire  from  that  Assembly 

without  the  least  reluctance. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G., 

460. 
A  M.  Deyverdun,  a  Lausanne. 

A  Londres,  ce  20  ]Mai,  1783: 

*Que  j 'admire  la  douce  et  parfaite  confiance  de  nos  sentimens 
reciproques  !  Nous  nous  aimons  dans  I'cloignement  et  le  silence, 
et  il  nous  suffit  a  I'un  et  a  I'autre,  de  savoir  de  tems  en  tems  des 
nouvelles  de  la  sante  et  du  bonheur  de  son  ami.  Aujourd'hui 
j'ai  besoin  de  vous  ecrire  ;  je  commence  sans  excuses  et  sans 
reproches,  comme  si  nous  allions  reprendre  la  conversation 
familiere  du  jour  precedent.  Si  je  proposois  de  faire  un  comj^te 
rendu  de  mes  etudes,  de  mes  occupations,  de  mes  plaisirs,  de  mes 
nouvelles  liaisons,  de  ma  politique  toujours  muette,  mais  un  peu 
plus  rapprochee  des  grands  evenemens,  je  multiplierois  mes 
in  quarto,  et  je  ne  sais  pas  encore  votre  avis  sur  ceux  que  je  vous 
ai  deja  envoyes.  Dans  cette  histoire  moderne,  il  seroit  toujours 
question  de  la  decadence  des  empires ;  et  autant  que  j'en  puis 

'  Tlie  session  closed  July  16,  1783. 

2  "  Gibbon  and  I,"  writes  Lord  Sheffield  to  William  Eden  {^Lord  Auddand's 
Journal  and  Correspondence,  vol.  i.  p.  53),  "  have  been  walking  about  the 
room  and  cannot  find  any  employment  we  should  like  in  the  intended  estab- 
lishment. He  agrees  with  me  that  the  place  of  dancing-master  might  be 
one  of  the  most  eligible  for  him,  but  he  rather  inclines  to  be  painter,  in  hopes 
of  succeeding  Ramsay." 


36  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

juger  sur  mes  reminiscences  et  sur  le  rapport  de  I'ami  Bugnon, 
vous  aimez  aussi  pen  la  puissance  de  I'Angleterre  que  celle  des 
Remains.  Notre  chute,  cependant,  a  ete  plus  douce.  Apres  una 
guerre  sans  succes,  et  une  paix  assez  peu  glorieuse,  il  nous  reste 
de  quoi  vivre  contens  et  heureux  ;  et  lorsque  je  me  suis  depouille 
du  role  de  Membre  du  Parlement,  pour  redevenir  homme, 
philosophe,  et  historien,  nous  pourrions  bien  nous  trouver 
d'accord  sur  la  plupart  des  scenes  etonnantes  qui  viennent  de  se 
passer  devant  nos  yeux,  et  qui  fourniront  une  riche  matiere  aux 
plus  habiles  de  mes  successeurs. 

Bornons  nous  a  cette  heure  a  un  objet  moins  illustre  sans 
doute,  mais  plus  interessant  pour  tons  les  deux,  et  c'est  beaucoup 
que  le  meme  objet  puisse  interesser  deux  mortels  qui  ne  se  sent 
pas  vus,  qui  a  peine  se  sont  ecrit  depuis — oui,  ma  foi — depuis 
huit  ans.  Ma  plume,  tres  paresseuse  au  commencement,  ou 
plutot  avant  le  commencement,  marche  assez  vite,  lorsqu'elle 
s'est  une  fois  mise  en  train  ;  mais  une  raison  qui  m'empecheroit 
de  lui  donner  carriere,  c'est  Tesperance  de  pouvoir  bientot  me 
servir  avec  vous  d'un  instrument  encore  plus  commode,  la  langue. 
Que  rhomme,  I'homme  anglois,  I'liomme  Gibbon,  est  un  sot 
animal !  Je  I'espere,  je  le  desire,  je  le  puis,  mais  je  ne  sais  pas 
si  [je]  le  veux,  encore  moins  si  j'executerai  cette  volonte. 

Voici  mon  histoire,  autant  qu'elle  pourra  vous  eclairer,  qu'elle 
pourra  m'eclairer  moi-meme,  sur  mes  veritables  intentions,  qui  me 
paroissent  tres  obscures,  et  tres  equivoques ;  et  vous  aurez  la 
bonte  de  m'apprendre  quelle  sera  ma  conduite  future.  II  vous 
souvient,  Seigneur,  que  mon  grandpere  a  fait  sa  fortune,  que  mon 
pere  I'a  mangee  avec  un  peu  trop  d'appetit,  et  que  je  jouis 
-actuellement  du  fruit,  ou  plutot  du  reste,  de  leurs  travaux.  Vous 
n'avez  pas  oublie  que  je  suis  entre  au  Parlement  sans  patriotisme, 
sans  ambition,  et  que  toutes  mes  vues  se  bornoient  a  la  place 
commode  et  honnete  d'un  Lord  of  Trade.  Cette  place,  je  I'ai 
■obtenue  enfin ;  je  I'ai  possedee  trois  ans,  depuis  1779  jusqu'  a 
1782,  et  le  produit  net,  qui  se  montoit  a  sept  cens  cinquante 
livres  sterling,  augmentoit  mon  revenu  au  niveau  de  mes  besoins 
et  de  mes  desirs.  Mais  au  printems  de  I'annee  precedente,  I'orage 
a  gronde  sur  nos  tetes  :  Milord  North  a  ete  renverse,  votre 
serviteur  chasse,  et  le  Board  meme,  dont  j'etois  membre,  aboli 
€t  casse  pour  toujours  par  la  reformation  de  M.  Burke,  avec 
beaucoup  d'autres  places  de  I'Etat,  et  de  la  maison  du  Roi. 


1783.]  HIS  VIEW  OF  ENGLISH  POLITICS.  37 

Pour  mon  malheur,  je  suis  toujours  reste  Membre  de  la  Chambre 
basse  :  a  la  fin  du  dernier  Parlement  (en  1780)  M.  Eliot  a  retire 
sa  nomination  ;  mais  la  faveur  de  Milord  North  a  facilite  ma 
rentree,  et  la  reconnoissance  m'imposoit  le  devoir  de  faire  valoir, 
pour  son  service,  Ics  droits  que  je  tenois  en  partie  de  lui.  Cet 
hyver  nous  avons  combattu  sous  les  etendards  reunis  (vous  savez 
notre  histoire)  de  Milord  North  et  de  M.  Fox;  nous  avons 
triomphe  de  Milord  Shelburne  et  de  la  paix,*  et  mon  ami  (je 
n'aime  pas  a  profaner  ce  nom)  a  remonte  sur  sa  bete  en  qualite 
de  secretaire  d'Etat.  C'est  a  present  qu'il  peut  bien  me  dire 
§'etoit  beaucoup  pour  moi,  ce  n'etoit  rien  pour  nous,  et  malgre 
les  assurances  les  plus  fortes,  j'ai  trop  de  raison  pour  avoir  de 
la  foi.  *Avec  beaucoup  d'esprit,  et  des  qualites  tres  respectables, 
notre  hommt*  a  la  demarche  lente  et  le  coeur  froid.  II  *n'a  plus 
ni  le  titre,  ni  le  credit  de  premier  ministre ;  des  collegues  plus 
actifs  lui  enlevent  les  morceaux  les  plus  friands,  qui  sont  aussitot 
devores  par  la  voracite  de  leurs  creatures ;  nos  malheurs  et  nos 
reformes  ont  diminue  le  nombre  des  graces ;  par  orgueil  ou  par 
paresse,  je  solicite  assez  mal,  et  si  je  parviens  enfin,  ce  sera 
peut-etre  a  la  veille  d'une  nouvelle  revolution,  qui  me  fera 
perdre  dans  un  instant,  ce  qui  m'aura  coute  tant  de  soins  et 
de  recherches. 

Si  je  ne  consultois  que  mon  ccEur  et  ma  raison,  je  romprois. 
sur  le  champ  cette  indigne  chaine  de  la  dependance ;  je 
quitterois  le  Parlement,  Londres,  I'Angleterre ;  je  chercherois 
sous  un  ciel  plus  doux,  dans  un  pays  plus  tranquille,  le  repos, 
la  liberte,  I'aisance,  et  une  societe  eclairee,  et  aimable.  En 
attendant  la  mort  de  ma  belle-mere  et  de  ma  tante  je  coulerois 
quelques  annees  de  ma  vie  sans  esperance,  et  sans  crainte, 
j'acheverais  mon  histoire,  et  je  ne  rentrerois  dans  ma  patrie 
qu'en  homme  libre,  riche,  et  respectable  par  sa  position,  aussi 
bien  que  par  son  caractere.  Mes  amis,  et  surtout  Milord  Sheffield, 
(M.  Holroyd)  ne  veulent  pas  me  permettre  d'etre  heureux  suivant 
mon  goiit  et  mes  lumieres.  Leur  prudence  exige  que  je  fasse 
tons  mes  efforts,  pour  obtenir  un  emploi  tres  sur  a  la  verite, 
qui  me  donneroit  mille  guinees  de  rente,  mais  qui  m'enleveroit 
cinq  jours  par  semaine.  Je  me  prete  a  leur  zele,  et  je  leur  ai 
promis  de  ne  partir  qu'en  automne,  apres  avoir  consacre  I'ete 
a  cette  derniere  tentative.  Le  succes,  cependant,  est  tres  incertain, 
et  je  ne  sais  si  je  le  desire  de  bonne  foi. 


38  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

Si  je  parviens  a  me  voir  exile,  mon  choix  ne  sera  pas  douteux. 
Lausanne  a  eu  mes  premices ;  elle  me  sera  toujours  chere  par  le 
doux  souvenir  de  ma  jeunesse.  Au  bout  de  trente  ans,  je  me 
rappelle  les  polissons  qui  sont  aujourd'hui  juges,  les  petites  filles 
de  la  societe  du  Printems,  qui  sont  devenues  grand-meres.  Yotre 
pays  est  charmant,  et,  malgre  le  degout  de  Jean  Jacques,  les 
ma3urs,  et  I'esprit  de  ses  habitans,  me  paroissent  tres  assortis  aux 
bords  du  lac  Leman.  Mais  un  tresor  que  je  ne  trouverois  qu'a 
Lausanne,  c'est  un  ami  qui  me  convient  egalement  par  les 
sentimens  et  les  idees,  avec  qui  je  n'ai  jamais  connu  un  instant 
d'ennui,  de  secheresse,  ou  de  reserve.  Autrefois  dans  nos  libres 
epanchemens,  nous  avons  cent  fois  fait  le  projet  de  vivre  ensemble, 
et  cent  fois  nous  avons  epluche  tons  les  details  du  Roman,  avec 
une  chaleur  qui  nous  etonnoit  nous  memes.  A  present  il  demeure, 
ou  plutot  vous  demeurez,  (car  je  me  lasse  de  ce  ton  ctudie,)  dans 
une  maison  charmante  et  commode  ;  je  vois  d'ici  mon  appartement, 
nos  salles  communes,  notre  table,  et  nos  promenades ;  mais  ce 
marriage  ne  vaut  rien,  s'il  ne  convient  pas  egalement  aux  deux 
epoux,  et  je  sens  combien  des  circonstances  locales,  des  gouts 
nouveaux,  de  nouvelles  liaisons,  peuvent  s'opposer  aux  desseins, 
qui  nous  ont  paru  les  plus  agreables  dans  le  lointain.  Pour  fixer 
mes  id^es,  et  pour  nous  epargner  des  regrets,  il  faut  me  devoiler 
avec  la  franchise  dont  je  vous  ai  donne  I'exemple,  le  tableau 
exterieur  et  interieur  de  George  Deyverdun.  Mon  amour  est 
trop  delicat,  pour  supporter  I'indifference  et  les  egards,  et  je 
rougirois  d'un  bonheur  dont  je  serois  redevable,  non  a  Tinclination, 
mais  a  la  fidelite  de  mon  ami. 

Pour  m'armer  contre  les  malheurs  possibles,  lielas !  peut-etre 
trop  vraisemblables,  j'ai  essaye  de  me  detacher  de  la  pensee 
■de  ce  projet  favori,  et  de  me  representer  a  Lausanne  votre 
bon  voisin,  sans  etre  precisement  votre  commensal.  Si  j'y 
etois  reduit,  je  ne  voudrois  pas  tenir  maison,  autant  par  raison 
d'economie,  que  pour  cviter  I'ennui  de  manger  seul.  D'un  autre 
cote,  une  pension  ouverte,  fut-elle  moutee  sur  Tancien  pied  de 
celle  de  Mesery,  ne  conviendroit  plus  a  mon  age,  ni  a  mon 
caractere.  Passerois-je  ma  vie  au  milieu  d'une  foule  de  jeunes 
Anglois  echappes  du  college,  moi  qui  aimerois  Lausanne  cent 
fois  da  vantage,  si  j'y  pouvois  etre  le  seul  de  ma  nation  ?  II 
me  faudroit  done  une  maison  commode  et  riante,  un  etat  au 
dessus  de  la  bourgeoisie,  un  mari  instruit,  une  femme  qui  ne 


1783.]  PROPOSES  TO   SETTLE  ABROAD.  39 

ressembleroit  pas  a  Madame  Pavilliard,  et  Tassurance  d'y  etrc 
re5U  comme  le  fils  unique,  ou  plutot  comme  le  frere  de  la  famille. 
Pour  nous  arranger  sans  gene,  je  meublerai  tres  volontiers  un 
joli  appartement  sous  le  meme  toit,  ou  dans  le  voisinage,  et 
puisque  le  manage  le  jdIus  foible  laisse  encore  de  Tetoffe  pour  une 
forte  pension,  je  ne  serois  pas  oblige  de  chicaner  sur  Ics  conditions 
pecuniaires.  Si  je  me  vois  dechu  de  cette  derniere  esp^rance, 
je  renoncerois  en  soupirant  a  ma  seconde  patrie,  pour  cbercher 
un  nouvel  asyle,  non  pas  a  Geneve,  triste  sejour  du  travail  et  de 
la  discorde,  mais  aux  bords  du  lac  de  Neufchatel,  parmi  les  bons 
Savoyards  de  Cliamberry,  ou  sous  le  beau  climat  des  Provinces 
Meridionales  de  la  France.  Je  finis  brusquement,  parceque  j'ai 
mille  choses  a  vous  dire.  Je  pense  que  nous  nous  ressemblons 
pour  la  correspondance.  Pour  le  bavardage  savant  ou  meme 
amical,  je  suis  de  tons  les  liommes  le  plus  paresseux,  mais  des 
qu'il  s'agit  d'un  objet  reel,  d'un  service  essentiel,  le  premier 
courier  emporte  toujours  ma  reponse.  A  la  fin  d'un  mois,  je 
commencerai  a  compter  les  semaines,  les  joiu-s,  les  heures.  Ne 
me  les  faites  pas  compter  trop  long  tems.    Vale.* 


461. 

31.  Deyverdun  a  31.  Gibbon. 

Strasbourg,  le  10  Juin,  1783. 

*Je  ne  saurois  vous  exprimer,  Monsieur  et  cher  ami,  la  vari^te, 
et  la  vivacite,  des  sensations  que  m'a  fait  eprouver  votre  lettre. 
Tout  cela  a  fini  par  un  fond  de  plaisir  et  d'esperance  qui  resteront 
dans  mon  coeur,  jusqu'a  ce  que  vous  les  en  chassiez. 

Un  rapport  singulier  de  circonstances  contribue  a  me  faire 
esperer  que  nous  sommes  destines  a  vivre  quelque  tems  agreable- 
ment  ensemble.  Je  ne  suis  pas  degoute  d'une  ambition  que  je  ne 
connus  jamais ;  mais  par  d'autres  circonstances,  je  me  trouve 
dans  la  meme  situation  d'embarras  et  d'incertitude  ou  vous  etes 
aussi  a  cette  epoque.  II  y  a  un  an  que  votre  lettre,  mon  cher 
ami,  m'auroit  fait  plaisir  sans  doute,  mais  en  ce  moment,  elle 
m'en  fait  bien  davantage ;  elle  vient  en  quelque  fajon  a  mon 
secours. 

Depuis  mon  retour  d'ltalie,  ne  pouvant  me  determiner  a 


40  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

vendre  ma  maison,  m'ennuyant  d'y  etre  seul  (car  je  suis  comme 
vous,  Monsieur,  et  je  deteste  de  manger  sans  compagnie)  nc 
vonlant  pas  loner  a  des  etrangers,  j'ai  pris  le  parti  de  m'arranger 
assez  joliment  an  premier  etage,  et  de  donner  le  second  a  une 
famille  de  mes  amis,  qui  me  nourrit,  et  que  je  loge.  Get 
arrangement  a  paru  pendant  longtems  contribuer  au  bonheur 
des  deux  parties.  Mais  tout  est  transitoire  sur  cette  terre.  Ma 
maison  sera  vuide,  selon  toute  apparence,  sur  la  fin  de  I'ete,  et  je 
me  vois  d'avance  tout  aussi  embarrasse  et  incertain,  que  je  I'etois 
il  y  a  quelques  annees,  ne  sachant  quelle  nouvelle  societe  choisir, 
et  assez  dispose  a  vendre  enfin  cette  possession  qui  m'a  cause 
bien  des  plaisirs  et  bien  des  peines.  Ma  maison^  est  done  a 
votre  disposition  pour  cet  automne,  et  vous  y  arriveriez  comme 
un  Dieu  dans  une  machine  qui  finit  I'embroglio.  Voila  quant 
a  moi ;  parlons  de  vous  maintenant  avec  la  meme  sincerite. 

Un  mot  de  preambule.  Quelque  interesse  que  je  sois  a 
votre  resolution,  convaincu  qu'il  faut  aimer  ses  amis  pour 
eux-memes,  sentant  d'ailleurs  combien  il  seroit  affreux  pour  moi 
de  vous  voir  des  regrets,  je  vous  donne  ici  ma  parole  d'honneur, 
que  mon  interet  n'influe  en  rien  sur  ce  que  je  vais  ecrire, 
et  que  je  ne  dirai  pas  un  mot  que  je  ne  vous  disse,  si 
Thermite  de  la  grotte  etoit  un  autre  que  moi.  Vos  amis  anglais 
vous  aiment  pour  eux-memes  ;  je  ne  veux  moi  que  votre  bonheur. 
Rappellez-vous,  mon  cher  ami,  que  je  vis  avec  peine  votre  entree 
dans  le  Parlement,  et  je  crois  n'avoir  ete  que  trop  bon  prophete  ; 
je  suis  sur  que  cette  carriere  vous  a  fait  eprouver  plus  de 
privations  que  de  jouissances,  beaucoup  plus  de  peines  que  de 
plaisirs  ;  j'ai  cru  toujours,  depuis  que  je  vous  ai  connu,  que  vous 
etiez  destine  a  vivre  heureux  par  les  plaisirs  du  cabinet  et  de  la 
societ;^,  que  tout  autre  marche  etoit  un  ecart  de  la  route  du 
bonheur,  et  que  ce  n'6toit  que  les  qualites  reunies  d'homme 
de  lettres,  et  d'homme  aimable  de  societe,  qui  pouvoient  vous 
procurer  gloire,  honneur,  plaisirs,  et  une  suite  continuelle  de 
jouissances.     Au  bout  de  quelques  tours  dans  votre  salle,  vous 

*  Part  of  the  grounds  of  M.  Deyvenlun's  house  at  Lausanne,  in  which 
Gibbon  lived  from  1783  to  1793,  is  now  occupied  by  the  Hotel  Gibbon. 
Henry  Mathews  (Diary  of  an  Invalid,  p.  317)  speaks  of  a  visit  to  the  houso 
paid  in  June,  1818.  "Paid  a  visit  to  the  house  in  which  Gibbon  resided. 
Paced  his  terrace,  and  explored  the  summer-house,  of  which  he  speaks  in. 
relating,  with  so  much  interesting  detail,  the  conclusion  of  his  historical! 
labours." 


1783.]  DEYVERDUN'S  OFFER  OF  HIS   HOUSE.  41 

sentirez  parfaitement  que  j'avois  bicu  vu,  ct  que  rcvencmciit  a 
justifie  mes  idees. 

Lorsque  j'ai  appris  que  vous  etiez  Lord  of  Trade,  j'en  ai 
^i^  fache ;  quand  j'ai  su  que  vous  aviez  perdu  cctte  place,  je 
m'en  suis  rcjouis  pour  vous  ;  quand  on  m'a  annonco  que  Milord 
North  etoit  remontc  sur  sa  bete,  j'ai  cru  vous  voir  tres  mal 
a  votre  aise,  en  croupe  derriere  lui,  et  je  m'en  suis  afflige  pour 
vous.  Je  suis  done  cliarme,  mon  cher  ami,  de  vous  savoir  a 
pied,  et  je  vous  conseille  tres  sincerement  de  rester  dans  cette 
position,  et  bien  loin  de  solliciter  la  place  en  question,  de 
la  refuser,  si  elle  vous  etoit  offerte.  Mille  guinees  vous 
dedommageront-elles  de  cinq  jours  pris  de  la  semaine  ?  Je 
suppose,  ce  que  cependant  j'ai  peine  a  croire,  que  vous  me  disiea 
que  oui :  et  la  varicte  et  Tinconstance  continuelle  de  votre 
ministere,  vous  promettent-elles  d'en  jouir  long  terns  constamment, 
et  n'est-il  pas  plus  desagreable,  mon  cher  Monsieur,  de  n'avoir 
plus  1000  livres  sterl.  de  rente,  qu'il  n'a  ete  agreable  d'en  jouir  ? 
D'ailleurs  ne  pourrez-vous  pas  toujours  rentrer  dans  la  carriere, 
si  I'ambition,  ou  I'envie  de  servir  la  patrie,  vous  reprennent ;  ne 
rentrerez-vous  pas  avec  plus  d'lionneur,  lorsque  vos  rentes  etant 
augmentees  naturellement,  vous  serez  libre  et  independant  ? 

En  faisant  cette  retraite  en  Saisse,  outre  la  beautc  du  pays, 
et  les  agremens  de  la  soci^te,  vous  acquererez  deux  biens  que 
vous  avez  perdus,  la  liberty  et  la  richesse.  Vous  ne  serez  d'ailleurs 
point  inutile ;  vos  ouvrages  continueront  a  nous  eclairer,  et 
ind^pendamment  de  vos  talens,  Thonnete  homme,  le  galant 
homme,  n'est  jamais  inutile. 

II  me  reste  a  vous  presenter  le  tableau  que  vous  trouveriez. 
Vous  aimiez  ma  maison  et  mon  jardin  ;  c'est  bien  autre  chose 
a  present.  Au  premier  etage  qui  donne  sur  la  descente  d'Ouchy, 
je  me  suis  arrange  un  appartement  qui  me  suffit,  j'ai  une 
chambre  de  domestique,  deux  sallons,  et  deux  cabinets.  J'ai 
au  plein  pied  de  la  terrasse,  deux  autres  sallons  dont  I'un  sert 
en  ete  de  salle  a  manger,  et  I'autre  de  sallon  de  compagnie.  J'ai 
fait  un  nouvel  appartement  de  trois  pieces  dans  le  vuide  entre 
la  maison  et  la  remise,  en  sorte  que  j'ai  a  vous  offrir  tout  le 
grand  appartement,  qui  consiste  actuellemeut  en  ouze  pieces, 
tant  grandes  que  petites,  tournees  au  Levant  et  au  Midi,  meublees 
sans  magnificence  deplacee,  mais  avec  une  sorte  d'clegance  dont 
j'espere  que  vous  seriez  satisfait.     La  terrasse  a  peu  change  ; 


42  GIBBON'S  COEEESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

mais  elle  est  termince  par  un  grand  cabinet  mieux  proportionne 
que  le  precedent,  garnie  tout  du  long,  de  caisses  d'orangers,  &c. 
La  treille,  qui  ne  vous  est  pas  indifferente,  a  embelli,  prospere, 
et  regne  presqu'entierement  jusqu'au  bout ;  parvenu  a  ce  bout, 
vous  trouverez  un  petit  chemin  qui  vous  conduira  a  une 
chaumiere  placee  dans  un  coin ;  et  de  ce  coin,  en  suivant  le 
long  d'une  autre  route  a  I'anglaise,  le  mur  d'un  manege.  Vous 
trouverez  au  bout,  un  chalet  avec  ecurie,  vacherie,  petite  porte, 
petit  cabinet,  petite  bibliotheque,  et  une  galerie  de  bois  dore, 
d'oii  Ton  voit  tout  ce  qui  sort  et  entre  en  ville  par  la  porte  du 
Chene,  et  tout  ce  qui  se  passe  dans  ce  Faubourg.  J'ai  acquis 
la  vigne  au-dessous  du  jardin ;  j'en  ai  arrache  tout  ce  qui  etoit 
devant  la  maison ;  j'en  ai  fait  un  tapis  vert  arrose  par  I'eau  du 
jet  d'eau ;  et  j'ai  fait  tout  autour  de  ce  petit  pare,  une  promenade 
tres  variee  par  les  diiferens  points  de  vue  et  les  objets  meme 
interieurs,  tantot  jardin  potager,  tantot  parterre,  tantot  vigne, 
tantot  pres,  puis  chalet,  chaumiere,  petite  montagne  ;  bref,  les 
etrangers  viennent  le  voir  et  I'admirent,  et  malgre  la  description, 
pompeuse  que  je  vous  en  fais,  vous  en  serez  content. 

iV.  B.  J'ai  plante  une  quantite  d'excellens  arbres  fruitiers. 

Venons  a  moi ;  vous  comprenez  bien  que  j'ai  vieilli,  excepte 
pour  la  sensibilite  ;  je  suis  ii  la  mode,  mes  nerfs  sont  attaques  ;  je 
suis  plus  melancolique,  mais  je  n'ai  pas  plus  d'humeur  ;  vous  ne 
souffrirez  de  mes  maux  que  tout  au  plus  negativement.  Ensemble, 
et  separes  par  nos  logemens,  nous  jouirons,  vis-a-vis  I'un  de 
I'autre,  de  la  plus  grande  liberte.  Nous  prendrons  une  gouvernante 
douce  et  entendue,  plutot  par  commodite  que  par  necessite ;  car 
je  me  chargerois  sans  crainte  de  la  surintendance.  J'ai  fait 
un  menage  de  quatre,  pendant  quelque  tems ;  j'ai  fait  le 
mien,  et  j'ai  remarque  que  cela  marchoit  tout  seul,  quand  c'etoit 
une  fois  en  train.  Les  petites  gens  qui  n'ont  que  ce  merite, 
font  grand  bruit  pour  rien.  Mon  jardin  nous  fournira  avec 
abondance  de  bons  fruits  et  d'excellens  legumes.  Pour  le  reste 
de  la  table  et  de  la  depense  domestique,  je  ne  demanderois  pas 
mieux  que  de  vous  recevoir  chez  moi,  comme  vous  m'avez  regu 
chez  vous ;  mais  nos  situations  sont  differentes  a  cet  egard  ; 
cependant  si  vous  etiez  plus  mine,  je  vous  I'ofFrirois  sans  doute, 
et  je  devrois  le  faire  ;  mais  avec  les  rentes  que  vous  aviez,  quand 
j'ctois  chez  vous,  en  les  supposant  meme  diminuees,  vous  vivrez 


1783.] 


SOCIETY  AT  LAUSANNE.  43 


tres  agrcablcmcnt  a  Lausanne.  Enfin  a  cet  egard  nous  nous 
arrangcrons,  comme  il  vous  sera  le  plus  agreable,  et  en  proportion 
dc  nos  rcvenus.  Toujours  serez  vous  aiusi,  a  ce  que  j'espere, 
plus  d^cemment  et  plus  comfortablemeut,  que  vous  ne  seriez 
par  tout  ailleurs  au  mume  prix. 

Quant  a  la  societe,  quoique  infiniment  agreable,  je  commence 
ce  chapitre  par  vous  dire  que  j'eviterois  de  vous  y  inviter,  si 
vous  etiez  entierement  desoeuvre ;  les  jours  sont  longs  alors,  et 
laisscnt  bien  du  vuide  ;  mais  liomme  de  lettres,  comme  vous  etes, 
je  ne  connois  point  de  societ6  qui  vous  convienne  mieux.     Nous 
aurons  autour  de  nous  un  cercle,  comme  il  seroit  impossible  d'en 
trouver  ailleurs  dans  un  aussi  petit  espace.     Madame  de  Corcelles, 
Mademoiselle  Sulens,  et  M.  de  Montolieu,  (Madame  est  morte,) 
Messrs.  Polier  et  leurs  femmes,  Madame  de  Severy,  et  M.  et 
Madame   de   Nassau,   Mademoiselle   de    Chandieu,   Madame   de 
St.    Cierge,   et   M.  avec  leurs   deux   filles   jolies   et   aimables, 
Mesdames  de  Crousaz,  Polier,  de  Charrieres,  &c.  font  un  fonds 
de  bonne  compagnie  dont  on  ne  se  lasse  point,  et  dont  M.  de 
Servan  est  si  content  qu'il  regrette  toujom'S  d'etre  oblige  de 
retourner  dans  ses  terres,  et  ne  respire  que  pour  s'etablir  tout 
a  fait  a  Lausanne.     II  passa  tout  I'hyver  de  1782  avec  nous, 
et  il  fut,  on  ne  pent  plus,  agreable.    Yous  trouverez  les  mceurs 
changees    en   bien,   et   plus   conformes    a    nos  ages,   et  a  nos 
caracteres ;   pen  de  grandes  assemblees,  de  grands  repas,  mais 
beaucoup  de  petits  soupers,  de  petites  assemblees,  ou  Ton  fait 
ce  qu'on  vent,  ou  Ton  cause,  lit,  &c.  et  dont  on  ecarte  avec 
soin  les  facheux  de  toute  espece.     II  y  a  le  Dimanche  une  societe, 
ou  tout  ce  qu'il  y  a  d'un  pen  distingue  en  etrangeres  et  etrangers, 
est  invite.     Cela  fait  des  assemblees  de  40  a  50  personnes,  ou 
Ton  voit  ce  qu'on  ne  voit  gueres  le  reste  de  la  semaine,  et  ces 
especes  de  rout  font  quelquefois  plaisir.     Nous    sommes   fort 
degoutes  des  etrangers,   surtout  des  jeunes  gens,   et  nous  les 
ecartons  avec  soin  de  nos  petits  comites,  a  moins  qu'ils  n'ayent 
du  merite,  ou  quelques  taleus.     A  cet  egard  un  de  nos  petits 
travers,  c'est  I'engouement ;  mais  vous  en  profiterez,  mon  cher 
Monsieur,  comme   Edward  Gibbon,  et  comme  mon  ami ;  vous 
serez  d'abord  I'homme  a  la  mode,   et  je  vols  d'ici  que  vous 
soutiendrez  fort  bien  ce  role,  sans  vous  en  facher,  dut  on  un  peu 
vous  surfaire.     Je  sens  que  tu  me  flattes,  mais  tu  me  fais  plaisir^ 
est  peut-etre  le  meillem:  vers  de  Destouches. 


44  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783.  M 

Voila  done  I'hyver ;  I'etude  le  matin,  quelques  conversations,  " 

quand  vous  serez  fatigue,  avec  quelque  homme  de  lettres,  ou 
amateur,  ou  du  moins  qui  aura  vu  quelque  chose ;  a  I'heure 
qu'il  vous  plaira  un  diner,  point  de  fermier  general,  mais 
I'honnete  epicurien,  avec  un  ou  deux  amis  quand  vous  voudrez  : 
puis  quelques  visites,  une  soiree,  souvent  un  souper.  Quant 
a  ret6,  vu  votre  maniere  d'aimer  la  campagne,  on  diroit  que 
ma  remise  a  ete  faite  pour  vous ;  pendant  que  vous  vous  y 
promenerez  en  senateur,  je  serai  souvent  en  bon  paysan  Suisse, 
devant  mon  chalet,  ou  dans  ma  chaumiere ;  puis  nous  nous 
rencontrerons  tout  a  coup,  et  tacherons  de  nous  remettre  au 
niveau  I'un  de  I'autre.  Nous  fermerons  nos  portes  a  I'ordinaire, 
excepte  aux  etrangers  qui  passent  leur  chemin  ;  mais  quand 
nous  voudrons,  nous  y  aurons  tons  ceux  que  nous  aimerons 
a  y  voir  ;  car  on  ne  demande  pas  mieux  que  d'y  venir  se  rejouir. 
J'ai  eu,  un  beau  jour  d'Avril  ce  printems,  un  dejeuner,  qui  m'a 
coute  quelques  Louis,  ou  il  y  avoit  plus  de  40  personnes,  je  ne 
sais  combien  de  petites  tables,  une  bonne  musique  au  milieu  du 
verger,  et  une  quantite  de  jeunes  et  jolies  personnes  dansant 
des  branles,  et  formant  des  chiflFres  en  cadence;  j'ai  vu  bien 
des  fetes,  j'en  ai  peu  vu  de  plus  jolies.  Quand  mon  pare  vous 
ennuyera,  nous  aurons,  ou  nous  louerons  ensemble  (et  ce  sera 
ainsi  un  plaisir  peu  cher)  un  cabriolet  leger,  avec  deux  chevaux 
gentils,  et  nous  irons  visiter  nos  amis  disperses  dans  les  campagnes,  1 

qui  nous  reeevront  a  bras  ouverts.    Yous  en  serez  content  de  nos  ^ 

campagnes ;  toujours  en  proportion  vous  comprenez,  et  vous 
trouverez  en  general  un  heureux  changement  pour  les  agremens 
de  la  societe,  et  une  sorte  de  recherche  simple,  mais  elegante. 
Les  bergeres  du  Printems,  excepte  Madame  de  Vanberg,  ne  sont 
sans  doute  plus  presentables,  mais  il  y  en  a  d'autres  asscz  gentilles, 
et  quoiqu'elles  ne  soyent  pas  en  bien  grand  nombre,  il  y  en 
aura  toujours  assez  pour  vous,  mon  cher  Monsieur.  Peu  a  peu 
mon  imagination  m'a  emporte,  et  mon  style  s'egaye,  comme  cela 
nous  arrivoit  quelquefois  dans  nos  chateaux  en  Espagne.  II  est 
bien  tems  de  finir  cet  article,  resumons  nous  plus  serieusement. 

Si  vous  executez  le  plan  que  vous  avez  imagine,  j'aimerois 
meme  a  dire  que  vous  embrassez,  surtout  d'apres  ce  que  vous 
marquez  vous  meme,  Sije  ne  consultois  que  mon  cccur  et  ma  raison, 
je  romperois  sur  le  champ  cette  indigne  chaine,  &c.  Eh !  que 
voulez-vous  consulter,  si  ce  n'est  votre  cceur  et  votre  raison  ? 


1 


1783.]  HIS  GRATITUDE  TO  DEYVERDUN.  45 

Si,  dis-je,  vous  cxecutez  ce  plan,  vous  retrouvcrez  uiie  liberie 
et  une  indepeudance,  que  vous  n'auriez  jamais  du  perdre,  et  doub 
vous  meritez  de  jouir,  une  aisance  qui  ne  vous  coutera  qu'uu 
voyage  de  quelques  jours,  une  tranquillite  que  vous  ne  pouvez 
avoir  a  Loudres,  et  enfin  un  ami  qui  n'a  peut-etre  pas  etc  un  jour 
sans  penser  a  vous,  et  qui  malgro  ses  defauts,  ses  foiblesses  et 
son  inferiorite,  est  encore  un  des  compagnons  qui  vous  convient 
le  mieux. 

II  me  reste  a  vous  apprendre  pourquoi  je  vous  reponds  si 
tard  :  vous  savez  deja  actuellement  que  ce  n'est  pas  manque 
d'amitie  et  de  zele  pour  la  chose ;  mais  votre  lettre  m'a  ete 
renvoyee  de  I/ausanne  ici,  a  Strasbourg,  et  je  n'ai  passe  qu'une 
poste  sans  y  repondre,  ce  qui  n'est  pas  trop,  vous  Tavouerez,  pour 
un  pareil  bavardage.  Je  suis  parti  de  Lausanne  la  veille  de 
Paques  pour  venir  voir  un  M.  Bourcard  de  Basle,  fort  de  mes 
amis ;  il  est  ici  aupres  du  Comte  de  Cagliostro,  pour  profiter 
de  ses  remedes.  Vous  aurez  entendu  parler  peut-etre  de  cet 
homme  extraordinaire  a  tous  egards.  Comme  j'ai  cte  assez 
malade  tout  I'hyver,  je  profite  aussi  de  ses  remedes  ;  mais  comme 
le  tems  du  sejour  du  Comte  ici  n'est  rien  moins  que  sur,  le  mieux 
sera  que  vous  m'ecriviez  a  M.  D.  chez  M.  Bourcard  du  Kirsh- 
garten^  a  Basle. 

Vous  comprenez  combien  a  tous  egards,  il  est  necessaire 
m'(^crire  sans  perte  de  tems,  des  que  vous  aurez  pris  une  resolution. 
Adieu,  mon  cher  ami.* 

462. 

A  31.  Deyverdun. 

*Je  re9ois  votre  lettre  du  10  Juin,  le  21  de  ce  mois.  Aujourd'hui 
Mardi  le  24,  je  mets  la  main  a  la  plume  (comme  dit  M.  Freron) 
pour  y  repondre,  quoique  ma  missive  ne  puisse  partir  par 
arrangement  des  postes,  que  Vendredi  prochain,  27  du  courant. 
0  merveille  de  la  grace  efficace !  Elle  n'agit  pas  moins 
puissamment  sur  vous,  et  moyennant  le  secours  toujours  pret, 
et  toujours  prompt  de  nos  couriers,  an  mois  nous  suffit  pour  la 
demande  et  la  reponse.  Je  remercie  mille  fois  le  genie  de 
I'amitie,  qui  m'a  pousse,  apres  mille  efforts  inutiles,  a  vous  ecrire 
enfin  au  moment  le  plus  critique  et  le  plus  favorable.  Jamais 
demarche  n'a  repondu  si  parfaitement  a  tous  mes  voeux  et  a. 


46  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

tontes  mes  esperances.  Je  comptois  sans  doute  sur  la  duree  et 
la  verite  de  vos  sentimens ;  mais  j'ignorois  (telle  est  la  foiblesse 
liumaine)  jusqn'a  quel  point  ils  avoient  pu  etre  attiedis  par  le 
terns  et  reloignement ;  et  je  savois  encore  moins  I'etat  actuel 
de  votre  sante,  de  votre  fortune  et  de  vos  liaisons,  qui  auroient 
pu  opposer  tant  d'obstacles  a  notre  reunion. 

Vous  m'ecrivez,  vous  m'aimez  toujours  ;  vous  desirez  avec  zele, 
avec  ardeur,  de  rcaliser  uos  anciens  projets  ;  vous  le  pouvez,  vous 
le  voulez  ;  vous  m'offrez  des  I'automne  votre  maison,  et  quelle 
terrasse !  votre  societe,  et  quelle  societe !  L'arrangement  nous 
convient  a  tons  les  deux ;  je  retrouve  a  la  fois  le  compagnon  de 
ma  jeunesse,  un  sage  conseiller,  et  un  peintre  qui  fait  representer 
et  exagerer  meme  les  objets  les  plus  rians.  Ces  exagerations  me 
font  pour  le  moins  autant  de  plaisir  que  la  simple  verite.  Si 
votre  portrait  etoit  tout  a  fait  ressemblant,  ces  agremens 
n'existeroient  que  hors  de  nous  memes,  et  j'aime  encore  mieux 
les  retrouver  dans  la  vivacite  de  votre  coeur  et  de  votre  imagination. 
Ce  n'est  pas  que  je  ne  reconnoisse  un  grand  fond  de  verite  dans 
le  tableau  de  Lausanne ;  je  connois  le  lieu  de  la  scene,  je  me 
transporte  en  idee  sur  notre  terrasse,  je  vois  ces  coteaux,  ce  lac, 
ces  montagnes,  ouvrage  favoris  de  la  nature,  et  je  congois  sans 
peine  les  embellissemens  que  votre  gout  s'est  plu  y  ajouter.  Je 
me  rappelle  depuis  vingt  ou  trente  ans  les  mcEurs,  I'esprit, 
I'aisance  de  la  societe,  et  je  ["comprends  que  ce  veritable  ton  de 
la  bonne  compagnie  se  perpetue,  et  s'epure  de  pere  en  fils,  ou 
plutot  de  mere  en  fille ;  car  il  m'a  toujours  paru  qu'a  Lausanne, 
aussi  bien  qu'en  France,  les  femmes  sont  tres  superieures  aux 
hommes.  Dans  un  pareil  sejour,  je  craindrois  la  dissipation  bien 
plus  que  I'ennui,  et  le  tourbillon  de  Lausanne  etonneroit  un 
philosoplie  accoutumc  depuis  tant  d'annees  a  la  tranquillitc  de 
Londres.  Vous  etes  trop  instruit  pour  regarder  ce  propos, 
com  me  une  mauvaise  plaisanterie ;  c'est  dans  les  detroits  qu'on 
est  entraine  par  la  rapidite  des  courans :  il  n'y  en  a  point  en 
pleine  mer.  Des  qu'on  ne  recherche  plus  les  plaisirs  bruyans, 
et  qu'on  s'affranchit  volontiers  des  devoirs  penibles,  la  liberie 
d'un  simple  particulier  se  fortifie  par  I'immensite  de  la  ville. 
Quant  a  moi,  I'application  a  mon  grand  ouvrage,  I'habitude,  et 
la  recompense  du  travail,  m'ont  rendu  plus  studieux,  plus 
sedentaire,  plus  ami  de  la  retraite.  La  Chambre  des  Communes 
et  les  grands  diners  exigent  beaucoup  de  terns  ;  et  la  temperance 


1 


1783.]  HIS  HESITATION  TO  ACCEPT.  47 

d'nn  repas  anglois  vous  permet  de  gouter  de  cinq  ou  six  vius 
dillcrens,  et  vous  ordonne  de  boire  une  bouteille  do  claret  apres 
le  dessert.  Mais  enfin  je  ne  soupe  jamais,  je  me  couche  de  fort 
bonne  heure,  je  re^ois  pen  de  visites,  les  matinees  sont  longues, 
les  etes  sont  libres,  et  des  que  je  ferme  ma  porte,  je  suis  oublie  du 
monde  entier.  Dans  une  societc  plus  bornee  et  plus  amicale,  les 
demarches  sont  publiques,  les  droits  sont  reciproques,  Ton  dine  de 
bonne  heure,  on  se  goute  trop  pour  ne  pas  passer  I'apres-midi 
ensemble ;  on  soupe,  on  veille,  et  les  plaisirs  de  la  soiree  ne 
laissent  pas  de  deranger  le  repos  de  la  nuit,  et  le  travail  du 
lendemain. 

Quel  est  cependant  le  resultat  de  ces  plaintes  ?  c'est  seulemeut 
que  la  mariee  est  trop  belle,  et  que  j'ose  me  servir  de  I'excuse 
honnete  de  la  sante  et  du  privilege  d'un  homme  de  lettres ; 
il  ne  tiendra  qu'a  moi  de  moderer  un  pen  I'exces  de  mes 
jouissances.  Pour  cet  engouement  que  vous  m'annoncez,  et  qui 
a  toujours  ete  le  defaut  des  peuples  les  plus  spirituels,  je  I'ai  dcja 
eprouve  sur  un  plus  grand  theatre.  II  y  a  six  ans  que  I'ami  de 
Madame  Necker  fut  refu  a  Paris,  comme  celui  de  George  Deyver- 
dun  pourroit  I'etre  a  Lausanne.  Je  ne  connois  rien  de  plus 
flatteur  que  cet  accueil  favorable  d'un  public  poli  et  eclaire. 
Mais  cette  faveur,  si  douce  pour  I'etranger,  n'est-elle  pas  un  peu 
dangereuse  pour  I'habitant  expose  a  voir  fletrir  ses  lauriers,  par  la 
faute  ou  par  I'inconstance  de  ses  juges  ?  Non ;  on  se  soutient 
toujours,  pent  etre  pas  precisement  au  meme  point  d'elevation. 
A  I'abri  de  trois  gros  volumes  in-quarto  en  langue  etrangere, 
encore  ce  qui  n'est  pas  un  petit  avantage,  je  conserverai  toujours 
la  reputation  litteraire,  et  cette  reputation  donnera  du  relief  aux 
qualites  sociales,  si  Ton  trouve  I'historien  sans  travers,  sans 
affectation  et  sans  pretentions. 

Je  serai  done  charme  et  content  de  votre  societe,  et  j'aurois 
pu  dire  en  deux  mots,  ce  qui  j'ai  bavarde  en  deux  pages ; 
mais  il  y  a  tant  de  plaisir  a  bavarder  avec  un  ami !  car  enfin 
je  possede  a  Lausanne  un  veritable  ami ;  et  les  simples  con- 
noissances  remplaceront  sans  beaucoup  de  peine,  tout  ce  qui 
s'appelle  liaison,  et  meme  amitie,  dans  ce  vaste  desert  de 
Londres.  Mais  au  moment  ou  j'ecris,  je  vois  de  tons  cotes  une 
foule  d'objets  dont  la  perte  sera  bien  plus  difficile  a  rcparer. 
Vous  connoissiez  ma  bibliotheque ;  mais  je  suis  en  etat  de  vous 
rendre  le  propos  de  votre  maison  c^est  bien  autre  chose  a  cette 


48  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

heure  •  fonuee  peu  a  peu,  mais  avec  beaucoup  de  soin  efc  de 
depense,  elle  peut  se  nommer  aujoiird'hui  un  beau  cabinet  de 
particulier,  Non  content  de  remplir  a  rangs  redoubles  la 
meilleure  piece  qui  lui  etoit  destinee,  elle  s'est  debordee  dans 
la  cliambre  sur  la  rue,  dans  votre  ancienne  chambre  a  coucher, 
dans  la  mieune,  dans  tous  les  recoins  de  la  maison  de  Bmtinclc- 
street,  et  jusques  dans  une  chaumiere  que  je  me  suis  donnee  a 
Hampton  Court. 

.T'ai  mille  courtisans  ranges  autour  de  moi: 

Ma  retraite  est  mon  Louvre,  et  j'y  commande  en  roi. 

Le  fouds  est  de  la  meilleure  compagnie  Grecque,  Latine, 
Italienne,  Franyoise,  et  Angloise,  et  les  auteurs  les  moins  chers 
a  I'homme  de  gout,  des  ecclesiastiques,  des  Bjzantins,  des 
Orientaux,  sont  les  plus  necessaires  a  Thistorien  de  la  Decadence 
et  de  la  Chute,  &c.  Vous  ne  sentez  que  trop  bien  le  desagrement 
de  laisser,  et  I'impossibilite  de  transporter  cinq  ou  six  milles 
volumes,  d'autant  plus  que  le  ciel  n'a  pas  voulu  faire  de  la  Suisse 
un  pays  maritime.  Cependant  mon  zele  pour  la  reussite  de  nos 
pro  jets  communs,  me  fait  imaginer  que  ces  obstacles  pourront 
s'applanir,  et  que  je  puis  adoucir  ou  supporter  ces  privations 
douloureuses.  Les  bons  auteurs  classiques,  la  bibliotheque  des 
nations,  se  retrouvent  dans  tous  les  pays.  Lausanne  n'est  pas 
depourvu  de  livres,  ni  de  politesse,  et  j'ai  dans  I'esprit  qu'on 
pourroit  acquerir  pour  un  certain  terns,  quelque  bibliotheque  d'un 
vieillard  ou  d'un  mineur,  dont  la  famille  ne  voudroit  pas  se 
defaire  entierement.  Quant  aux  outils  de  mon  travail,  nous 
tcommencerons  par  examiner  I'etat  de  nos  richesses ;  apres  quoi 
il  faudroit  faire  un  petit  calcul  du  prix,  du  poids  et  de  la  rarete 
de  chaque  ouvrage,  pour  juger  de  ce  qu'il  seroit  necessaire  de 
transporter  de  Londres,  et  de  ce  qu'on  acheteroit  plus  commodc- 
ment  en  Suisse ;  a  I'egard  de  ces  frais,  on  devroit  les  envisager 
conime  les  avances  d'une  manufacture  transplantee  en  pays 
etranger,  et  dont  on  espere  retirer  dans  la  suite  un  profit 
raisonuable.  Malheureusement  votre  bibliotheque  publique,  en 
y  ajoutant  meme  celle  de  M.  de  Bochat,  est  assez  piteuse  ;  mais 
celles  de  Berne  et  de  Basle  sont  tres  nombreuses,  et  je  compterois 
assez  sur  la  bonhommie  Helvetique,  pour  esperer  que,  moyennant 
ides  recommendations  et  des  cautions,  il  me  seroit  permis  d'en 
Airer  les  livres  dont  j'aurois  essentiellement  besoin.    Vous  etes 


1783.]  HIS  FRIEND   AND  VALET.  49 

tres  bien  place  pour  prendre  les  informations,  et  pour  fuire  les 
d-marches  convenables ;  mais  vous  voyez  du  moins  combien  je 
me  retourne  de  tons  les  cotes,  pour  esquiver  la  difficulte  la  plus 
formidable. 

Venons  a  present  a  des  objets  moins  relevcs,  mais  tres 
importans  a  I'existence  et  au  bien-etre  de  I'animal,  le  logement, 
les  domestiques,  et  la  table.  Pour  mon  appartement  particulier, 
une  chambre  a  coucher,  avec  un  grand  cabinet  et  une  antichambre, 
auroient  suffi  a  tous  mes  besoins  ;  mais  si  vous  pouvez  vous  en 
passer,  je  me  promenerai  avec  plaisir  dan?  Timmensite  de  vos  onze 
pieces,  qui  s'accommoderont  sans  doute  aux  heures  et  aux  saisons 
differentes.  L'article  des  domestiques  renferme  une  assez  forte 
difficult!^,  sur  laquelle  je  dois  vous  consulter.  Yous  connoissez, 
et  vous  estimez  Caplen  mon  valet  de  chambre,  maitre  d'hotel,  &c. 
qui  a  ete  nourri  dans  notre  maison,  et  qui  comptoit  d'y  finir  ses 
jours.  Depuis  votre  depart,  ses  talens  et  ses  vertus  se  sont 
develloppes  de  plus  en  plus,  et  je  le  considere  bien  moins  sur  le 
pied  d'un  domestique,  que  sur  celui  d'un  ami.  Malheureusement 
il  ne  sait  que  I'Anglois,  et  jamais  il  n'apprendra  de  langue 
^trangere.  II  m'accompagna,  il  y  a  six  ans,  dans  mon  voyage 
a  Paris,  mais  il  rapporta  fidelement  a  Londres  toute  I'ignorance, 
et  tous  les  pr^juges  d'un  bon  patriote.  A  Lausanne  il  me 
couteroit  beaucoup,  et  a  I'exception  du  service  personnel,  il  ne 
nous  seroit  que  d'une  tres  petite  utilite.  Cependant  je  supporterois 
volontiers  cette  depense,  mais  je  suis  tres  persuade  que,  si  son 
attachement  le  portoit  a  me  suivre,  il  s'ennuyeroit  a  mourir  dans 
un  pays  ou  tout  lui  seroit  etranger  et  desagreable.  II  faudroit 
done  me  detacher  d'un  homme  dont  je  connois  le  zele,  la  fidelite, 
rompre  tout  d'un  coup  de  petites  habitudes  qui  sont  liees  avec  le 
bien-etre  joumalier  et  momentane,  et  se  resoudre  a  lui  substituer 
am  visage  nouveau,  peut-etre  un  mauvais  sujet,  toujours  quelque 
aventurier  Suisse  pris  sur  le  pave  de  Londres.  Yous  lappellez- 
vous  un  certain  George  Suess  qui  a  fait  autrefois  avec  moi  le 
voyage  de  France  et  d'ltalie  ?  Je  le  crois  marie  et  etabli  a 
Lausanne  ;  s'il  vit  encore,  si  vous  pouvez  I'engager  a  se  rendre 
ici,  pour  me  ramener  en  Suisse,  la  compagnie  d'un  bon  et  ancien 
serviteur  ne  laisseroit  pas  d'adoucir  la  chute,  et  il  resteroit  peut- 
etre  aupres  de  moi,  jusqu'a  ce  que  nous  eussions  choisi  un  jeune 
^homme  du  pays,  adroit,  modeste  et  bien  eleve,  a  qui  je  ferois  un 
parti  avantageux. 

VOL.  II.  K 


50  gibbon's  COKHESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

Les  autres  domestiques,  gouvernantes,  laquais,  cuisiniere,  &c. 
se  prennent  et  se  renvoyent  sans  difficulte.  Un  article  bien 
plus  important,  c'est  notre  table,  car  enfin  nous  ne  sommes  pas 
assez  hermites,  pour  nous  contenter  des  legumes  et  des  fruits 
de  votre  jardin,  tout  excellens  qu'ils  sont ;  mais  je  n'ai  presque 
rien  a  ajouter  a  I'honnetete  de  vos  propos,  qui  me  donnent 
beaucoup  plus  de  plaisir  que  de  surprise.  Si  je  me  trouvois  sans 
fortune,  au  lieu  de  rougir  des  bienfaits  de  Tamiti^,  j'accepterois 
vos  offres  aussi  simplement  que  vous  les  faites.  Mais  nous  ne 
sommes  pas  reduits  a  ce  point,  et  vous  comprenez  assez  qu'une 
deconfiture  angloise  laisse  encore  une  fortune  fort  decente  au 
Pays  de  Vaud,  et  pom*  vous  dire  quelque  chose  de  plus  precis, 
je  depenserois  sans  peine  et  sans  inconvenient  cinq  ou  six  cens 
Louis.  Vous  connoissez  le  resultat  aussi  bien  que  les  details 
d'un  manage ;  en  supposant  une  petite  table  de  deux  philosophes 
Epicuriens,  quatre,  cinq,  ou  six  domestiques,  des  amis  assez 
souvent,  des  repas  assez  rarement,  beaucoup  de  sensualite,  et  peu 
de  luxe,  a  combien  estimez-vous  en  gros  la  depense  d'un  mois  et 
d'une  annee  ?  Le  partage  que  vous  avez  deja  fait,  me  paroit  des 
plus  raisonnables ;  vous  me  logez,  et  je  vous  nourris.  A  votre 
calcul,  j'ajouterois  mon  entretien  personnel,  habits,  plaisirs,  gages 
de  domestiques,  &c.  et  je  verrois  d'une  maniere  assez  nette, 
I'ensemble  de  mon  petit  etablissement. 

Apres  avoir  essuye  tant  de  details  minutieux,  le  cher  lecteur 
s'imagine  sans  doute  que  la  resolution  de  me  fixer  pendant  quelque 
tems  aux  bords  du  Lac  Leman,  est  parfaitement  decidee.  Helas  ! 
rien  n'est  moins  vrai ;  mais  je  me  suis  livre  au  charme  delicieux 
de  contempler,  de  sonder,  de  palper  ce  bonheur,  dont  je  sens  tout 
le  prix,  qui  est  a  ma  portee,  et  auquel  j'aurai  peut-etre  la  betise 
de  renoncer.  Yous  avez  raison  de  croire,  mais  vous  ignorez 
jusqu'a  quel  point  vous  I'avez,  que  ma  carriere  politique  a  ete 
plus  semee  d'epines  que  de  roses.  Eh !  quel  objet,  quel  motif, 
pourroit  me  consoler  de  I'ennui  des  affaires,  et  de  la  honte  de  la 
dependance  ?  La  gloire?  Comme  homme  de  lettres,  j'en  jouis, 
comme  orateur  je  ne  I'aurai  jamais,  et  le  nom  des  simples  soldats 
est  oublie  dans  les  victoires  aussi  bien  que  dans  les  defaites.  Le 
devoir  ?  Dans  ces  combats  a  I'aveugle,  ou  les  chefs  ne  cherchent 
que  leur  avantage  particulier,  il  y  a  toujours  a  parier  que  les 
subalternes  feront  plus  de  mal  que  de  bien.  Vattacliemmt 
persotmel  ?    Les  ministres  sont  rarement  dignes  de  I'inspirer ; 


1783.]  HIS  HOPES  OP  A  POLITICAL  PLACE.  51 

jusquVi  present  Lord  North  n'a  pas  eu  a  se  plaindre  de  moi,  et  si 
je  me  retire  du  Parlemeut,  il  lui  sera  tres  aise  d'y  substituer  un 
autre  muet,  tout  aussi  affide  que  son  ancien  serviteur.  Je  suis 
intimement  convaincu,  et  par  la  raison,  et  par  le  sentiment,  qu'il 
n'y  a  point  de  parti,  qui  me  convienne  aussi  bien  que  de  vivre 
avec  vous,  et  aupres  de  vous  a  Lausanne ;  et  si  je  parviens  a  la 
place  {Commissioner  of  the  Excise  or  Customs)  oil  je  vise,  il  y  aura 
toutes  les  semaines  cinq  longues  matinees,  qui  m'avertiront  de  la 
folic  de  mon  choix.  Vous  vous  trompez  a  la  verite  a  I'egard 
de  I'instabilite  de  ces  emplois  ;  ils  sont  presque  les  seuls  qui  ne 
ressentent  jamais  des  revolutions  du  ministere. 

Cepeudant  si  cette  place  s'offroit  bientot,  je  n'aurois  pas  le  bon 
sens  et  le  courage  de  la  refuser.  Quels  autres  conseillers  veux-je 
prendre,  sinon  mon  coeur  et  ma  raison  ?  II  en  est  de  puissans  et 
toujours  ecoutes  :  les  egards,  la  mauvaise  lionte,  tons  mes  amis,  ou 
soi-disant  tels,  s'ecrieront  que  je  suis  un  horn  me  perdu,  mine,  un 
fou  qui  se  derobe  a  ses  protecteurs,  un  misanthrope  qui  s'exile  au 
bout  du  monde,  et  puis  les  exagerations  sur  tout  ce  qui  seroit  fait 
en  ma  faveur,  si  surement,  si  promptement,  si  liberalement.  My  lord 
Sheffield  opinera  a  me  faire  interdire  et  enf ermer ;  mes  deux 
tantes  et  ma  belle  mere  se  plaindront  que  je  les  quitte  pour 
jamais,  &c.  Et  I'embarras  de  prendre  mon  bonnet  de  nuit, 
comme  disoit  le  sage  Fontenelle,  lorsqu'il  n'etoit  question  que  de 
decoucher,  combien  de  bonnets  de  nuit  ne  me  faudra-t-il  pas 
prendre,  et  les  prendre  tout  seul  ?  car  tout  le  monde,  amis, 
parens,  domestiques,  s'opposera  a  ma  fuite.  Voila  a  la  verite  des 
obstacles  assez  peu  redoutables,  et  en  les  decrivant,  je  sens  qu'ils 
s'affoiblissent  dans  mon  esprit.  Grace  a  ce  long  bavardage  vous 
connoissez  mon  interieur,  comme  moi  meme,  c'est  a  dire  assez 
mal ;  mais  cette  incertitude,  tres  amicale  pour  moi,  seroit  tres 
facheuse  pour  vous.  Yotre  reponse  me  parviendra  vers  la  fin  de 
Juillet,  et  huit  jours  apres,  je  vous  promets  une  replique  nette 
et  decisive :  je  pars  ou  je  reste.  Si  je  pars,  ce  sera  au  milieu  de 
Septembre ;  je  mangerai  les  raisins  de  votre  treiUe  les  premiers 
jours  d'Octobre,  et  vous  aurez  encore  le  tems  de  me  charger  de 
vos  commissions.  Ne  me  dites  plus,  Monsieur,  et  tres  cher  ami ; 
le  premier  est  froid,  le  second  est  superflu."' 


52  gibbon's   correspondence.  [1783. 

463. 
M.  Deyverdwi  a  M.  Gibbon. 

*Me  voila  un  peu  embarrasse  actuellement ;  je  ne  dois  vous 
appeller  ni  Monsieur,  ni  ami.  Eh  bien !  vous  saurez  qu'etant 
parti  Samedi  de  Strasbourg,  pendant  que  je  venois  ici,  votre 
seconde  lettre  alloit  la,  et  qu'ainsi  je  reyus  votre  troisieme, 
Dimanche,  et  votre  seconde,  bier.  La  mention  que  vous  y 
faisicz  du  Suisse  George,  dont  je  n'ai  pu  rien  trouver  dans  la 
premiere,  m'a  fait  comprendre  qu'il  j  en  avoit  une  seconde,  et 
j'ai  cru  devoir  attendre  un  courier,  la  troisieme  n'exigeant  pas  de 
reponse. 

Pour  votre  parole,  permettez  que  je  vous  en  dispense  encore, 
et  meme  jusqu'au  dernier  jour,  je  sens  bien  qu'un  procede 
contraire  vous  conviendroit ;  mais  certes  il  ne  me  convient  pas  du 
tout.  Ceci,  com  me  vous  le  dites,  est  une  espece  de  mariage,  et 
pensez  vous  que  malgre  les  engagemens  les  plus  solemnels,  je 
n'eusse  pas  reconduit  chez  elle,  du  pied  des  autels,  la  femme  la 
plus  aimable  qui  m'eut  temoigne  des  regrets  ?  Jamais  je  ne  me 
consolerois,  si  je  vous  voyois  mecontent  dans  la  suite,  et  dans 
le  cas  de  me  faire  des  reproches.  C'est  a  vous  a  faire,  si  vous 
croyez  necessaire,  des  demarches  de  votre  cute,  qui  fortifient 
votre  resolution ;  pour  moi,  je  n'en  ferai  point  d'essentielles, 
jusqu'a  ce  que  j'aye  re§u  encore  une  lettre  de  vous.  Apres  ce 
petit  preambule,  parlous  toujours  comme  si  I'affaire  etoit  decidee, 
et  repassons  votre  lettre.  Tout  ce  que  vous  dites  des  grandes 
et  petites  villes,  est  tres  vrai,  et  votre  comparaison  des  detroits 
et  de  la  pleine  mer,  est  on  ne  pent  pas  plus  juste  et  agreable ; 
mais  eniin,  comme  on  fait  son  lit,  on  se  couche,  disoit  Sancho 
Pancha  d'agreable  memoire,  et  qui  pent  mieux  faire  son  lit  h.  sa 
guise  qu'un  etranger,  qui,  n'ayant  ni  devoirs  d'etat  ni  de  sang 
a  remplir,  pent  vivre  entierement  isole,  sans  que  personne  y 
puisse  trouver  a  redire  ?  Moi  meme,  bourgeois  et  citoyen  de 
la  ville,  je  suis  presqu'entierement  libre.  L'ete,  par  exemple,  je 
deteste  de  m'enfermer  le  soir  dans  des  chambres  chaudes,  pour 
faire  une  partie.  Eh  bien  !  on  m'a  persecute  un  peu  la  premiere 
annee ;  a  present  on  me  laisse  en  repos.  II  y  aura  sans  doute 
quelque  changement  dans  votre  maniere  de  vivre  :  mais  il  me 
semble  qu'on  se  fait  aisement  {\  cela.     Les  diners,  surtout  en 


4' 


1783.]  SOCIAL  HABITS  AT  LAUSANNE.  63 

femmes,  sont  tres  rares  ;  les  soupers  peu  grands  ;  on  reste  plutot 
pour  etre  ensemble,  que  pour  manger,  et  plusieurs  personnes  ne 
s'asseyent  point,  Je  crois,  tout  comptc  et  rabattu,  que  vouz 
aurez  encore  plus  de  terns  pour  le  cabinet  qu'a  Londres  ;  on  sort 
peu  le  matin,  et  quand  nos  amis  communs  viendront  cliez  moi, 
et  vous  demanderont,  je  leur  dirai ;  "  ce  n'est  pas  un  oisif 
comme  vous  autres,  il  travaille  dans  son  cabinet,"  et  ils  se  tairont 
respectueusement. 

Pour  les  bibliotheques  publiques,  votre  idee  ne  pourroit,  je 
pense,  se  realiser  pour  un  lecteur  ou  meme  un  ^crivain  ordinaire, 
mais  un  horn  me  qui  joue  un  role  dans  la  republique  des  lettres,  un 
homme  aime  et  considere,  trouvera,  je  m'imagine,  bien  des 
facilites  ;  d'ailleurs,  j'ai  de  bons  amis  a  Berne,  et  je  prendrai  ici 
des  informations. 

Passons  a  la  table.  Si  j'etois  a  Lausanne,  cet  article  seroit 
plus  sur,  je  pourrois  revoir  mes  papiers,  consulter ;  j'ai  une 
chienne  de  memoire.  A  vue  de  pays  cela  pourra  aller  de  20  a 
30  Louis  par  mois,  plus  ou  moins,  vous  sentez,  suivant  la  friandise, 
et  le  plus  ou  moins  de  convives.  Marquez  moi  dans  votre 
premiere  combien  vous  cotite  le  votre. 

Je  sens  fort  bien  tons  les  bonnets  de  nuit :  point  de  grands 
cbangemens  sans  embarras,  meme  sans  regrets ;  vous  en  aurez 
quelquefois  sans  doute  :  par  exemple,  si  votre  salle  a  manger, 
votre  salle  de  compagnie,  sont  plus  riantes,  vous  perdrez  pour  le 
vase  de  la  bibliotheque.  Pour  ce  qui  est  des  representations, 
des  discours  au  moins  inutiles,  il  me  semble  que  le  mieux  seroit 
de  masquer  vos  grandes  operations,  de  ne  parler  que  d'une  course, 
d'une  visite  cbez  moi,  de  six  mois  ou  plus  ou  moins.  Vous 
feriez  bien,  je  pense,  d'aller  chez  mon  ami  Louis  Teissier ;  c'est 
un  brave  et  lionnete  homme,  qui  m'est  attache,  qui  aime  notre 
pays ;  il  vous  donnera  tout  plein  de  bons  conseils  avec  zele,  et 
vous  gardera  le  secret. 

Yous  aurez  quelquefois  a  votre  table  un  poete  ; — oui,  Monsieur, 
un  poete : — nous  en  avons  un  enfin.  Procurez  vous  un  volume 
8vo.  Poesies  Helvetiennes,  imjjrimees  Vannee  passee  chez  Mouser, 
a  Lausanne}    Vouz  trouverez  entr'autres  dans  I'epitre  au  jardinier 

*  Poesies  [Ielv€liennes.  Par  M.  B  *  *  *  *  *  (i.e.  J.  P.  L.  Bridel).  Lausanne, 
1782.     8°.    Epitre  au  Jardinier  de  la  Grotte,  pp.  66-72, 

"  Que  j'ai  passe  de  charmantes  veille'es, 
Dessons  ce  chaiime  au  fond  do  ton  verger  ! 


54  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1783. 

de  la  grotte,  voire  ami  et  voire  pare.  Touie  la  prose  esi  de  voire 
ires  humble  serviteur,  qui  desire  qu'elle  irouve  grace  devant 
vous. 

Le  Comie  de  Cagliosiro  ^  a  faii  un  sejour  a  Londres.  On  ne 
saii  qui  il  esi,  d'oii  il  esi,  d'ou  il  iire  son  argeni  ;  il  exerce  gratis 
ses  ialens  pour  la  medecine ;  il  a  fait  des  cures  admirables ; 
mais  e'esi  d'ailleurs  le  compose  le  plus  etrange.  J'ai  cesse  de 
prendre  ses  remedes  qui  m'echauffoieni — I'liomme  d'ailleurs  me 
gaioit  le  medecin.  Je  suis  revenu  a  Basle  avec  mon  ami. 
Adieu  ;  recrivez  moi  le  pluioi  possible.* 


464. 
A  M.  Beyvcrdun. 

Hampton  Court,  ce  1  Juillet,  1783. 

*Apres  avoir  pris  ma  resoluiion,  Thonneur,  ei  ce  qui  vaui 
encore  mieux  I'amiiie,  me  defendent  de  vous  laisser  un  momeni 
dans  I'inceriiiude.  Je  pars.  Je  vous  en  donne  ma  parole,  et 
com  me  je  suis  bien  aise  de  me  fortifier  d'un  nouveau  lien,  je  vous 
prie  ires  serieusemeni  de  ne  pas  m'en  dispenser.  Ma  possession, 
sans  douie,  ne  vaut  pas  celle  de  Julie ;  mais  vous  serez  plus 
inexorable  que  St.  Preux.    Je  ne  sens  plus  qu'une  vive  impatience 

Loin  du  fracas  d'un  monde  mensongcr, 
Par  le  plaisir  elles  etaieut  filees. 
****** 

Tantot  quittant  ce  chaume  solitaire, 
Asyle  heureux  qu'un  palais  ne  vaut  pas, 
Sur  ta  terrasse  accompagnant  tcs  pas, 
Nous  contemplions  les  jeux  de  la  lumiere; 
L'astre  des  nuits  a  nos  yeux  se  levant 
Se  de'gageait  lentement  des  montagnes, 
Poursuivait  I'ombre  au  travers  des  campagnes ; 
Et  scintillait  dans  les  eaux  du  Le'man." 

'  Cagliostro,  whose  real  name  is  said  to  liavo  been  Giuseppe  Balsamo, 
came  to  Strasbourg  in  1780.  Jean  Benjamin  de  ]a  Borde,  in  his  Lettres  sur 
la  Suisse  (published  1783),  expresses  enthusiastic  admiration  for  his  skill 
and  character.  For  his  share  in  the  Necklace  Scandal  at  Paris  in  1785-6, 
Cagliostro  was  banished  from  France.  He  left  the  country,  saying  that  he 
should  not  return  till  the  Bastille  was  une  promenade  publique.  At  Rome 
he  was  condemned  in  the  Papal  Court  to  perpetual  imprisonment,  and  died, 
it  is  said,  in  1795. 


1783,]  HIS   DECISION  TO  LEAVE  ENGLAND.  55 

pour  notre  reunion.  Mais  le  mois  d'Octobre  est  encore  loin ; 
92  jours,  et  nous  aurons  tout  le  tems  de  prendre,  et  de  nous 
donner  des  (^claircissemens  dont  nous  avons  besoin.  Apres  un 
mur  examen,  je  renonce  an  voyage  de  George  Suess,  qui  me 
paroit  incertain,  cher  et  difficile.  Apres  tout  mon  valet  de 
chambre  et  ma  bibliotheque  sont  les  deux  articles  les  plus 
embarrassans.  Si  je  ne  retenois  pas  ma  plume,  je  remplirois  sans 
peine  la  feuille  ;  mais  il  ne  faut  pas  passer  du  silence  a  un  babil 
intarissable.  Settlement  si  je  connois  le  Comte  de  Cagliostro, 
cet  hnmme  extraordinaire,  &c.  Savez  vous  le  Latin  ?  oui,  sans 
doute ;  mais  faites,  comme  si  je  ne  le  savois  point.  Quand 
retournez  vous  a  Lausanne  vous  meme  .''  *  Je  pense  que  vous  y 
trouverez  une  petite  bete,  bien  aimable  mais  taut  soit  pen 
mechante,  qui  se  nomme  My  lady  Elizabeth  Foster,  parlez  lui 
de  moi,  mais  parlez  en  avec  discretion,  elle  a  des  correspondences 
partout.     *Vale.'"' 

465. 

To  Lord  Slieffield. 

July  10th,  1783. 

*You  will  read  the  following  lines  with  more  patience  and 
attention  than  you  would  probably  give  to  a  hasty  conference, 
perpetually  interrupted  by  the  opening  of  the  door,  and  perhaps 
by  the  quickness  of  our  own  tempers.  I  neither  expect  nor  desire 
an  answer  on  a  subject  of  extreme  importance  to  myself,  but 
■which  friendship  alone  can  render  interesting  to  you.  We  shall 
soon  meet  at  Sheffield. 

It  is  needless  to  repeat  the  reflections  which  we  have  some- 
times debated  together,  and  which  I  have  often  seriously  weighed 
in  my  silent  solitary  walks.  Notwithstanding  your  active  and 
ardent  spirit,  you  must  allow  that  there  is  some  perplexity  in  my 
present  situation,  and  that  my  future  prospects  are  distant  and 
cloudy.  I  have  lived  too  long  in  the  world  to  entertain  a  very 
sanguine  idea  of  the  friendship  or  zeal  of  Ministerial  patrons ; 
and  we  are  all  sensible  how  much  the  powers  of  patronage  are 
reduced.* 

The  source  of  pensions  is  absolutely  stopped,  and  a  double 
list  of  candidates  is  impatient  and  clamourous  for  half  the 
number  of  desirable  places.    A  seat  at  the  board  of  customs  or 


56  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

excise  was  certainly  the  most  practicable  attempt,  but  how  far  are 
we  advanced  in  the  pursuit .?  Could  we  obtain  (it  was  indeed 
unprecedented)  an  extraordinary  commission  ?  Have  we  received 
any  promise  of  the  first  vacancy  ?  how  often  is  the  execution  of 
such  a  promise  delayed  to  a  second  or  third  opportunity  ?  When 
will  those  vacancies  happen  ?  Incumbents  are  sometimes  very 
tough.  Of  the  Excise  I  know  less,  but  I  am  sure  that  the  door 
of  the  Customs  (except  when  it  was  opened  for  Sir  Stanier  by  a 
pension  of  equal  value)  has  been  shut,  at  least  during  the  last 
three  years.  In  the  meanwhile  I  should  be  living  in  a  state  of 
anxiety  and  dependence,  working  in  the  illiberal  service  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  my  seat  in  Parliament  sinking  in  value  every 
day  and  my  expenses  very  much  exceeding  my  annual  income. 
*At  the  end  of  that  time,  or  rather  long  before  that  time  (for 
their  lives  are  not  worth  a  year's  purchase),  our  ministers  are 
kicked  down  stairs,  and  I  am  left  their  disinterested  friend  to 
fight  through  another  opposition,  and  to  expect  the  fruits  of 
another  revolution. 

But  I  will  take  a  more  favourable  supposition,  and  conceive 
myself,  in  six  months,  firmly  seated  at  the  board  of  Customs ; 
before  the  end  of  the  next  six  months,  I  should  infallibly 
hang  myself.  Instead  of  regretting  my  disappointment,  I 
rejoyce  in  my  escape  ;  as  I  am  satisfied  that  no  salary  could 
pay  me  for  the  irksomeness  of  attendance,  and  the  drudgery 
of  business  so  repugnant  to  my  taste,  (and  I  will  dare  to  say) 
BO  unworthy  of  my  character.  Without  looking  forwards  to 
the  possibility,  still  more  remote,  of  exchanging  that  laborious 
oflRce  for  a  smaller  annuity,  there  is  surely  another  plan,  more 
reasonable,  more  simple,  and  more  pleasant ;  a  temporary  retreat 
to  a  quiet  and  less  expensive  scene.  In  a  four  years'  residence 
at  Lausanne,  I  should  live  within  my  income,  save,  and  even 
accumulate,  my  ready  money ;  finish  my  histoiy,  an  object  of 
profit  as  well  as  fame,  expect  the  contingencies  of  elderly  lives, 
and  return  to  England  at  the  age  of  fifty,  to  form  a  lasting 
independent  establishment,  without  courting  the  smiles  of  a 
minister,  or  apprehending  the  downfall  of  a  party.  Such  have 
been  my  serious  sober  reflections. 

Yet  I  much  question  whether  I  should  have  found  courage 
to  follow  my  reason  and  my  inclination,  if  a  friend  had  not 
stretched  his  hand  to  draw  me  out  of  the  dirt.     The  twentieth 


1783.]  PLAN  OF  JOINING  DEYVERDUN.  57 

of  last  May  I  wrote  to  my  friend  Deyverdnn,  after  a  long  interval 
of  silence,  to  expose  my  situation,  and  to  consult  in  what 
manner  I  might  best  arrange  myself  at  Lausanne.  From  his 
answer,  which  I  received  about  a  fortnight  ago,  I  have  the 
pleasure  to  learn,  that  his  heart  and  his  house  are  both  open 
for  my  reception ;  that  a  family  which  he  had  lodged  for  some 
years  is  about  to  leave  him,  and  that  at  no  other  time  my  company 
would  have  been  so  acceptable  and  convenient.  I  shall  step,  at 
my  arrival,  into  an  excellent  apartment  and  a  delightful  situation ; 
the  fair  division  of  our  expences  will  render  them  very  moderate, 
and  I  shall  pass  my  time  with  the  companion  of  my  youth,  whose 
temper  and  studies  have  always  been  congenial  to  my  own.  I 
have  given  him  my  word  of  honour  to  be  at  Lausanne  in  the 
beginning  of  October,  and  no  power  or  persuasion  can  divert 
me  from  this  irrevocable  resolution,  which  I  am  every  day 
proceeding  to  execute. 

I  wish,  but  I  scarcely  hope,  to  convince  you  of  the  propriety 
of  my  scheme  ;  ^  but  at  least  you  will  allow,  that  when  we  are  not 
able  to  prevent  the  follies  of  our  friends,  we  should  strive  to  render 
them  as  easy  and  harmless  as  possible.  The  arrangement  of  my 
house,  furniture  and  books  will  be  left  to  meaner  hands,  but  it  is 
to  your  zeal  and  judgment  alone  that  I  can  trust  the  more 
important  disposal  of  Lenborough  and  Lymington.  On  these 
subjects  we  may  go  into  a  Committee  at  Sheffield-place,  but  you 
know  it  is  the  rule  of  a  Committee  not  to  hear  any  arguments 
against  the  principle  of  the  bill.  At  present  I  shall  only  observe, 
that  neither  of  these  negociations  ought  to  detain  me  here ;  the 
former  may  be  dispatched  as  well,  the  latter  much  better,  in  my 
absence.     Vale* 

'  Lord  SheflSeld,  however,  was  convinced  of  the  wisdom  of  Gibbon's 
plan.  "  Gibbon,"  he  writes  to  Mr.  Eden,  August  7,  1783,  "  has  baffled  all 
arrangements ;  possibly  you  may  have  heard  at  Bushy  or  Bedford  Square,  of 
a  continental  scheme.  It  has  annoyed  me  much,  and  of  all  circumstances 
the  most  provoking  is,  that  he  is  right ;  a  most  pleasant  opportunity  oflfered. 
His  seat  in  Parliament  is  left  in  my  hands.  He  is  here  [Sheffield  Place]. 
In  short,  his  plan  is  such,  that  it  was  impossible  to  urge  anything  against  it  '* 
{Lord  Auckland's  Journal  and  Correspondence,  vol.  i.  p.  56). 


58  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

466. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Bentinck  Street,  July  26th,  1783. 

My  dear  Madam, 

You  have  so  long  been  acquainted  with  my  indifference 
or  rather  dislike  to  the  house  of  Commons,  that  you  will  not  be 
much  surprized,  that  I  should  entertain  a  thought  or  indeed  a 
resolution  of  vacating  my  seat.  Your  vain  hope  (a  kind  and  a 
friendly  vanity)  of  my  making  a  distinguished  figure  in  that 
assembly  has  long  since  been  extinct,  and  you  are  now  convinced 
by  repeated  experience  that  my  reputation  must  be  derived  solely 
from  my  pen.  A  seat  in  parliament  I  can  only  value  as  it  is 
connected  with  some  official  situation  of  emolument :  that  con- 
nection which  has  fortunately  subsisted  about  three  years  is  now 
dissolved,  and  I  do  not  see  any  probability  of  its  being  speedily 
restored.  Whatever  may  be  the  wishes  or  sentiments  of  my 
political  friends,  their  patronage  has  been  extremely  circumscribed 
by  the  double  list  of  candidates,  the  reduction  of  places  and  the 
suppression  of  pensions.  The  most  solid  and  attainable  things 
(at  the  boards  of  Castoms  or  Excise)  are  incompatible  with  a 
seat  in  parliament,  and  my  pra3vious  retreat  (by  taking  from 
them  a  motive  of  delay)  will  promote  rather  than  obstruct  the 
accomplishment  of  my  hopes  and  their  promises.  Thus  restored 
for  some  time  to  the  enjoyment  of  freedom,  I  propose  to  spend 
it  in  the  society  of  my  friend  Deyverdun  at  Lausanne,  who 
presses  me  in  the  kindest  manner  to  visit  him  in  the  house  and 
garden  which  he  possesses  in  the  most  beautiful  situation  in  the 
World. 

I  intend  going  about  the  middle  of  September,  and  though 
it  is  not  possible  to  define  precisely  the  time  of  my  absence, 
it  is  not  hkely  that  I  shall  pass  less  than  a  year  in  Switzer- 
land. I  shall  exchange  the  most  unwholesome  air  (that  of  the 
house  of  Commons)  for  the  purest  and  most  salubrious,  the 
heat  and  hurry  of  party  for  a  cool  litterary  repose ;  and  I  have 
little  doubt  that  this  excursion,  which  will  amuse  me  by  the 
change  of  objects,  will  have  a  lasting  and  beneficial  effect  on  my 
health.  The  lease  of  my  house  expires  next  Christmas,  and  I 
shall  take  the  opportunity  of  disengaging  myself  from  an  useless 


1783.]  HIS  DEPARTURE  A  NECESSITY.  59 

expence,  and  of  removing  to  a  hired  room  my  books,  and  such 
part  of  my  furniture  as  may  be  worth  keeping.  You  will  be 
pleased  to  hear  that  the  faithful  Caplen  accompanies  me  abroad. 

Such  is  the  light  in  which  my  journey  should  be  represented 
to  those  friends  to  whom  it  may  be  advisable  to  say  any  thing  of 
my  motives.  Every  circumstance  which  I  have  already  stated  is 
strictly  true,  but  you  will  too  easily  conceive  that  it  is  not  the 
whole  truth :  that  this  step  is  dictated  by  the  hard  law  of  ^economy 
or  rather  of  necessity,  and  that  the  moment  of  my  return  will 
not  entirely  depend  on  my  own  choice.  You  have  not  forgot 
how  a  similar  intention  some  years  ago  was  superseded  by  my 
appointment  to  the  board  of  trade.  Perhaps  it  would  have  been 
wiser  if  I  had  left  England  immediately  after  the  loss  of  my 
place,  and  the  sense  of  this  imprudent  delay  urges  me  more 
strongly  every  day  to  avoid  the  difficulties  of  a  still  longer  pro- 
crastination. By  this  resolution  I  shall  deliver  myself  at  once 
from  the  heavy  expence  of  a  London  life,  my  friend  Deyverdun 
and  myself  shall  join  in  a  moderate  though  elegant  establishment 
at  Lausanne  ;  and  I  can  wait  without  inconvenience  for  one  of 
the  events,  which  may  enable  me  to  revisit  with  pleasure  and 
credit  my  country,  and  the  person,  whom  in  that  country,  I  most 
value,  I  mean  yourself.  Allow  me  to  add  (though  I  know  such 
thoughts  will  be  absorbed  in  your  mind  by  higher  and  more 
tender  sentiments),  yet  allow  me  to  add  that  at  the  stated  days  of 
Midsummer  and  Christmas,  you  may  regularly  draw  for  your 
half  year's  annuity  on  Messieurs  Gosling  in  Fleet  Street,  and  that 
effectual  steps  shall  be  taken  to  secure  you  from  a  possibility 
of  disappointment.  It  would  not  be  my  absence,  but  my  stay 
in  England  that  could  create  any  delay  or  difficulty  on  that 
subject. 

And  now,  my  dear  madam,  let  me  submit  to  your  consideration 
and  final  decision,  a  question  which  for  my  own  part  I  am  unable 
to  determine,  whether  I  shall  visit  Bath  before  I  leave  England. 
If  I  consulted  only  my  wishes,  the  mere  expence  and  trouble  of 
the  journey  would  be  obstacles  of  small  account,  but  I  much  fear, 
that  on  tliis  occasion,  prudence  will  dissuade  what  inclination 
would  prompt,  and  that  a  meeting  of  three  or  four  days  (for  it 
could  be  no  more)  would  tend  rather  to  embitter  than  to  alleviate 
our  unavoidable  separation.  If  you  decide  for  my  coming  down, 
it  will  probably  take  place  between  the  20th  and  30th  of  next 


60  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

month,  and  I  must  beg  that  little,  or  nothing,  may  be  said  on  the 
subject  of  my  approaching  journey,  and  that  we  may  (silently) 
turn  our  thoughts  to  the  happiness  of  seeing  each  other,  after  au 
interval  of  time,  less  considerable  perhaps  than  those  which 
commonly  elapse  between  my  Bath  expeditions. 

I  am,  my  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  most  truly  yours, 

E.  G. 


467. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Thursday  night,  1783. 

Elmsley  ^  and  self  have  been  hard  at  work  this  afternoon,  and 
about  ten  quintals  are  preparing  for  foreign  service.  Can  you 
save  me  ten  pounds  per  annum,  such  is  the  rent  of  a  good  and 
safe  room  in  the  Strand  ?  You  offered  me  a  room  in  Downing 
Street  (did  you  mean  an  entire  room  ?)  for  plate,  china,  &c.  Is 
it  the  apartment  on  the  ground  floor  from  whence  you  was 
expelled  by  odours  ?  If  you  can  lodge  my  books  you  must  give 
me  a  line  per  Saturday's  coach,  with  a  mandate  to  the  maid  that 
she  may  not  scruple  to  shew  and  receive.  Time  presses  and  Elmsley 
is  on  the  wing.  Pelham  ^  is  appointed  Irish  Secretary  in  the  room 
of  Wyndham  *  who  pleads  bad  health,  but  who  had  written  very 
indiscreet  letters  at  the  general  election.  Adieu.  I  want  to  hear 
of  My  Lady,  her  tender  frame  has  been  too  much  agitated. 

'  Peter  Elmsley  (1736-1802)  succeeded  Paul  Vaillant  as  a  bookseller 
opposite  Southampton  Street,  in  the  Strand.  His  special  department  was 
the  importation  of  foreign  books.  He  was  a  man  of  great  general  knowledge, 
and  possessed  a  remarkable  knowledge  of  the  French  literature  and  language. 
Gibbon  died  at  his  house,  76,  St.  James's  Street,  at  the  corner  of  Little  St. 
James's  Street. 

*  Thomas  Pelham,  M.P.  for  Sussex  (afterwards  second  Earl  of  Chichester) 
(1756-1826),  served  as  Irish  Secretary  under  Lord  Northington  in  the 
Coalition  Government  from  1783  to  1784. 

'  William  Windham  (1750-1810),  M.P.  for  Norwich,  resigned  the  Irish 
Secretaryship  in  1783.  He  was  Secretary  at  War  from  179-1  to  1801,  and 
War  and  Colonial  Secretary  1806-7.  He  was  a  powerful  speaker,  a  brilliant 
talker,  a  patron  of  pugilism,  and,  from  his  irresolution  and  love  of  paradox, 
nicknamed  "  Weather-cock." 


1783.]  HIS  REASONS  FOR  LEAVING  LONDON.  61 

468. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Sheffield-place,  August  8th,  1783. 

Dear  Madam, 

Your  truly  maternal  letters  (which  I  have  repeatedly 
perused)  have  agitated  my  mind  with  a  variety  of  pleasing  and 
painful  sensations.  I  am  grieved  that  you  should  contemplate  my 
departure  in  so  melancholy  a  light,  but  I  shall  always  revere  the 
affection  which  prompts  your  anxiety,  and  magnifies  the  evil.  I 
receive  with  more  gratitude  than  surprise  your  generous  offer  of 
devoting  yourself  and  so  large  a  portion  of  your  income  to  my 
relief,  and  I  am  concerned  to  find  on  calmer  reflection  that  such 
a  project  is  attended  with  insuperable  difficulties.  After  the 
mutual  and  unpleasant  sacrifice  of  our  habits  and  inclinations,  I 
could  not,  even  with  your  assistance,  reduce  the  expence  of  a 
liondon  life  to  the  level  of  my  present  income,  and  the  two 
hundred  a  year  which  you  so  nobly  propose  would  be  exhausted 
by  the  single  article  of  a  Coach. 

With  regard  to  the  delays  which  you  suggest,  you  may  be 
assured  that  I  shall  take  no  material  step  without  consideration 
and  advice.    Had  I  staid  in  London,  I  should  have  removed  from 
Bentinck  Street.     On  my  return  another  house  may  at  any  time 
be  procured,  and  I  shall  carefully  preserve  the  most  valuable  part 
of  my  furniture,  plate,  linnen,  china,  beds,  &c.      My  seat   in 
Parliament  cannot  be  vacated  till  the  next  Session,  and  I  shall 
leave  the  disposal  of  it  to  om*  friend  Lord  Sheffield,  in  whose 
zeal  and  discretion  we  may  safely  confide.     On  his  own  account 
he  regrets  my  departure,  but  he  has  been  forced  to  give  a  full 
though  reluctant  approbation  to  my  design.     I  wish  it  were  in 
my  power  to  remove  all  your  kind  apprehensions  which  relate  to 
the  length  of  my  absence  and  the  choice  of  my  residence.    I 
certainly  do  not  entertain  a  very  sanguine  idea  of  political  friend- 
ship, but  I  am  convinced  that  such  persons  as  really  wish  to  serve 
me  will  not  be  discouraged  by  my  temporary  retreat  to  Switzer- 
land.   In  the  leisure  and  quiet  which  I  shall  enjoy  at  Lausanne, 
I  shall  prosecute  the  continuation  of  my  history,  and  the  care  of 
publishing  a  work,  from  whence  I  may  expect  both  honour  and 
advantage,  will  secure,  within  a  reasonable  space,  my  return  to 
England.    Your  idea  of  the  climate  of  Switzerland  is  by  many 


62  gibbon's  COKEESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

degrees  too  formidable ;  the  air  though  sometimes  keen,  is  pure 
and  wholesome,  the  Gout  is  much  less  frequent  on  the  Continent 
than  in  our  Island,  and  the  provoking  luxury  of  London  dinners 
is  much  more  likely  to  feed  that  distemper,  than  the  temperance 
and  tranquillety  of  Lausanne.  In  the  society  of  my  friend 
Deyverdun,  I  hope  to  spend  some  time  with  comfort  and  pro- 
priety, but  my  affections  are  still  fixed  in  England,  and  it  will  be 
my  wish  and  endeavour  to  shorten  the  term  of  this  necessary 
separation,  and  in  the  meanwhile  you  may  depend  on  the  most 
regular  communication  of  every  circumstance  that  affects  my 
health  and  happiness. 

I  am,  my  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 
I  have  some  questions  to  ask  you  about  the  disposal  of  certain 
pieces  of  furniture,  such  as  the  Clock  and  Carpet,  but  I  would 
not  mix  those  trifles  with  the  more  serious  purpose  of  this  letter. 

469. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Monday,  August  18th,  1783. 
*In  the  preparations  of  my  journey  I  have  not  felt  any  circum- 
stance more  deeply  than  the  kind  concern  of  Lady  S[heffield],  and 
the  silent  grief  of  Mrs.  Porfcen.  Yet  the  age  of  my  friends  makes  a 
very  essential  difference.  I  can  scarcely  hope  ever  to  see  my  aunt 
again;  but  I  flatter  myself,  that  in  less  than  two  years,  my  sister'^ 
will  make  me  a  visit,  and  that  in  less  than  four,  I  shall  return  it 
with  a  chearful  heart  at  Sheffield-place.  Business  advances  ;  this 
morning  my  books  were  shipped  for  Rouen,  and  will  reach  Lausanne 
almost  as  soon  as  myself.  On  Thursday  morning  the  bulk  of  the 
library  moves  from  Bentinck-street  to  Downing-street.  I  shall 
escape  from  the  noise  to  Hampton  Court,  and  spend  three  or  four 
days  in  taking  leave.  I  want  to  know  your  precise  motions,  what 
day  you  arrive  in  town,  whether  you  visit  Lord  Beauchamp  before 
the  races,  &c.  I  am  now  impatient  to  be  gone,  and  shall  only 
wait  for  a  last  interview  with  you.  Your  medley  of  Judges, 
Advocates,  politicians,  &c.,  is  rather  useful  than  pleasant.  Town 
is  a  vast  solitude.     Adieu.* 

'  Meaning  Lady  Sheffield. 


1783.]  PREPAEATIONS  FOR  DEPARTURE.  63 

470. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Bentinck-strect,  Wednesday  night,  August  20th,  1783. 

*I  am  now  concludin^^  one  of  the  most  unpleasant  days  of  my 
life.  Will  the  day  of  our  meeting  again  be  accompanied  with 
proportionable  satisfaction  ?  The  business  of  preparation  will 
serve  to  agitate  and  divert  my  thoughts  ;  but  I  do  not  like  your 
brooding  over  melancholy  ideas  in  your  solitude,  and  I  heartily 
wish  that  both  you  and  my  dear  Lady  S.  would  immediately  go 
over  and  pass  a  week  at  Brighton.  Such  is  our  imperfect  nature, 
that  dissipation  is  a  far  more  efficacious  remedy  than  reflection. 
At  all  events,  let  me  hear  from  you  soon.  I  have  passed  the 
evening  at  home,  without  gaining  any  intelligence.* 

471. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Friday,  August  22nd,  1783. 

*I  am  astonished  with  your  apparition  and  flight,  and  am  at  a 
loss  to  conjecture  the  mighty  and  sudden  business  of  *Coventry,* 
which  could  not  be  delayed  till  next  week.  Timeo  *Conways,*  their 
selfish  cunning,  and  your  sanguine  unsuspecting  spirit.  Not 
dreaming  of  your  arrival,  I  thought  it  unnecessary  to  apprize  you, 
that  I  delayed  Hampton  to  this  day  ;  on  Monday  I  shall  return, 
and  will  expect  you  Tuesday  evening,  either  in  Bentinck  or 
Dowiiing-street,  as  you  like  best.  You  have  seen  the  piles  of 
learning  accumulated  in  your  parlour  ;  the  transportation  will  be 
atchieved  to-day,  and  Bentinck  Street  is  already  reduced  to  a 
light,  ignorant  habitation,  which  I  shall  inhabit  till  about  the 
1st  of  September ;  four  days  must  be  allowed  for  clearing 
and  packing ;  these  I  shall  spend  in  Downing-street,  and  after 
seeing  you  a  moment  on  your  return,  I  shall  start  about  Saturday 
the  Gth.  London  is  a  desert,  and  life,  without  books,  business, 
or  society,  will  be  somewhat  tedious.  From  this  state,  you  will 
judge  that  your  plan  coincides  very  well,  only  I  think  you  should 
give  me  the  whole  of  Wednesday  in  Bentinck-street.    With  regard 


€4  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

to  Bushy,  perhaps  as  a  compliment  to  Lord  L.  you  had  better 
defer  it  till  your  return.^* 

You  have  not  forgot  the  model  of  a  letter  for  Sainsbury, 
"Way,  Hearne,  &c.,  with  the  200  Guineas  reward  for  the  proper 
sale  of  Lenborough.  I  return  your  three  letters  with  a  fourth 
not  less  curious,  which  I  have  not  yet  answered.  Mrs.  G.'s 
pride  is  not  inferior  to  her  tenderness.  *I  admire  Gregory  Way,^ 
and  should  envy  him,  if  I  did  not  possess  a  disposition  somewhat 
similar  to  his  own.  My  lady  will  be  reposed  and  restored  at 
Brighton ;  the  torrent  of  Lords,  Judges,  &c.  a  proper  remedy 
for  you,  was  a  medicine  ill-suited  to  her  constitution.  I  tenderly 
embrace  her.* 

472. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Hampton  Court,  August  25th,  1783. 

My  deaeest  Madait, 

I  can  easily  attribute  your  silence  to  the  true  motive, 
the  difficulty  (of  which  I  am  likewise  conscious)  of  our  present 
situation.  The  subject  which  occupies  our  minds  has  been 
reciprocally  exhausted :  it  is  unpleasant  to  resume  a  melancholy 
train  of  ideas,  and  it  is  impossible  to  write  with  ease  and 
chearfullness  on  indifferent  subjects.  Yet  I  almost  flatter  myself 
that  if  you  are  not  satisfied  with  my  reasons,  you  are  at  least 
disposed  to  acquiesce  in  a  resolution  which  is  the  offspring  of 
necessity,  and  will  I  trust  be  the  parent  of  happiness.  I  repeat 
my  promise  that  distance  shall  only  render  me  a  more  punctual 
correspondent,  and  I  must  again  intreat  that  you  would  turn 
your  thoughts  from  the  moment  of  our  separation  to  that  of 
our  reunion. 

After  sending  two  boxes  of  books  to  Lausanne  I  have 
deposited  the  remainder  of  my  library  in  Lord  Sheffield's 
capacious  mansion  in  Downing  Street,  whither  I  shall  send 
next  week  my  plate,  linnen,  beds,  &c.  I  expect  your  commands 
with  regard  to  the  Clock  and  Carpet :  if  you  have  not  room  or 

'  i.e.,  probably,  before  applying  direct  to  Lord  North  (Bushey),  wait  to 
eee  what  Lord  Loughborough  may  do. 

^  Gregory  Lewis  Way,  son  of  Lewis  Way  by  his  second  wife,  was  half- 
fcrother  to  Lady  Sheffield. 


1783.]  FAREWELL  TO  SHEFFIELD    PLACE.  G5 

occasion  for  them  at  Bath,  I  should  probably  dispose  of  the  first, 
as  it  might  be  damaged  by  neglect,  but  the  latter  I  shall 
carefully  preserve  both  as  your  workmanship  and  as  your  gift. 
If  among  the  China,  &c.  there  should  be  any  things  you  would 
desire  to  select,  Lord  S.,  their  Guardian  and  mine,  is  instructed 
to  obey  your  commands.  As  far  as  I  can  calculate  I  shall  be 
ready  to  set  out  about  the  Gth  of  September,  the  end  of  next 
week,  but  I  propose  writing  to  you  again  before  my  departure. 

I  am,  my  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

473. 
To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  August  30th,  1783. 

My  dear  Friend, 

*For  the  names  of  Sheffelina,  &c.  are  too  playful  for  the 
serious  temper  of  my  mind.  In  the  whole  period  of  my  life  I 
do  not  recollect  a  day  in  which  I  felt  more  unpleasant  sensations, 
than  that  on  which  I  took  my  leave  of  Sheffield-place.  I  forgot 
my  friend  Deyverdun,  and  the  fair  prospect  of  quiet  and 
happiness  which  awaits  me  at  Lausanne.  I  lost  sight  of  our 
almost  certain  meeting  at  the  end  of  a  term,  which,  at  our 
age,  cannot  appear  very  distant ;  nor  could  I  amuse  my  uneasiness 
with  the  hopes,  the  more  doubtful  prospect,  of  your  visit  to 
Switzerland.  The  agitation  of  preparing  every  thing  for  my 
departure  has,  in  some  degree,  diverted  these  melancholy  thoughts ; 
yet  I  still  look  forwards  to  the  decisive  day  (to-mon-ow  Se'nnight) 
with  an  anxiety  of  which  yourself  and  Lord  S.  have  the  principal 
share. 

Surely  never  any  thing  was  so  unlucky  as  the  unseasonable 
death  of  Sir  John  Eussell,^  which  so  strongly  reminded  us  of  the 
instability  of  human  life  and  human  expectations.  The  inundation 
of  the  Assize  must  have  distressed  and  overpowered  you ;  but 
I  hope  and  I  wish  to  hear  from  yourself,  that  the  air  of  your 
favourite  Brighton,  the  bathing,  and  the  quiet  society  of  two 
or    three    friends,    have    composed    and    revived    your    spirits. 

'  Sir  John  Russell,  Bart.,  died  on  his  way  to  Sheffield  Place,  August  8, 
1783. 

VOL.  II.  F 


66  GIBBON'S  CORKESPONDENCE.  [17S3. 

Present  my  love  to  Sarah,  and  compliments  to  Miss  Carter,  &c. 
Adieu.    Give  me  a  speedy  and  satisfactory  line.* 

I  am 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 
P.S. — You  will  find  in  Downing  Street  the  Histoire  des 
Voyages  and  the  musical  clock.  During  my  absence  I  entrust 
them  both  to  your  care,  but  I  desire  that  neither  of  them  may 
be  removed  to  Sheffield  Place.  You  must  direct  to  Downing 
Street,  which  I  shall  occupy  next  Monday. 

474. 
To  his  Stqnnothcr. 

Downing  Street,  Monday,  Sept.  8th,  1783. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  am  confined  to  this  place  (a  better  place  than  Dover) 

l)y  the  winds,  and  they  likewise  detain  two  Flanders  mails  by 

which  I  expect    a    letter    from    Deyverdun.     I  thought    this 

advertisement  necessary  for  fear  you  should  suppose  me  tossing 

on  the  seas.     I  hope  to  get  away  by  Friday,  but  you  may  rest 

assured  that  both  for  your  sake  and  my  own  I  will  take  very  good 

care  of  my  person. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

475. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Downing  Street,  September  8th,  1783. 
*As  we  are  not  unconscious  of  each  other's  feelings,  I  shall 
only  say,  that  I  am  glad  you  did  not  go  alone  into  Sussex.  An 
American  rebeP  to  dispute  with,  gives  a  diversion  to  uneasy 
spirits,  and  I  heartily  wished  for  such  a  friend  or  adversary  during 
the  remainder  of  the  day.  No  letter  from  Deyverdun  ;  the  post 
is  arrived,  but  two  Flanders  mails  are  due.  iEolus  does  not  seem 
to  approve  of  my  designs,  and  there  is  little  merit  in  waiting  till 
Friday.     I  should  wait  with  more  reluctance,  did  I  think  there 

*  Mr.  Silas  Deane. 


1783.]  THE  PEACE   OF  VERSAILLES.  67 

was  much  chance  of  success.  I  dine  with  Craufurd/  and  if 
anything  is  decided  will  send  an  extraordinary  Gazette.  You 
have  obliged  me  beyond  expression,  by  your  kindness  to  Aunt 
Kitty  ;  she  will  drink  her  afternoon  tea  at  Sheffield  next  Friday. 
For  my  sake,  Lady  S.  will  be  kind  to  the  old  Lady,  who  will  not 
be  troublesome,  and  will  vanish  at  the  first  idea  of  Brighton ; 
has  not  that  salubrious  air  already  produced  some  effects  ?  Peace 
will  be  proclaimed  to-morrow  ;  ^  odd  !  as  War  was  never  declared. 
The  buyers  of  stock  seem  as  indifferent  as  yourself  about  the 
definitive  Treaty.  Tell  Maria,  that  though  you  had  forgotten 
the  Annales  de  la  Vertu,  I  have  directed  them  to  be  sent,  but 
know  nothing  of  their  plan  or  merit.  Adieu.  When  you  see 
Mylady,  say  everything  tender  and  friendly  to  her.  I  did 
not  know  how  much  I  loved  her.  She  may  depend  upon  my 
keeping  a  separate,  though  not,  perhaps,  a  very  frequent  account 
with  her.  Ajjropos,  I  think  aunt  Kitty  has  a  secret  wish  to  lye 
in  my  room  ;  if  it  is  not  occupied,  she  might  be  indulged.    Once 

more,  adieu.* 

E.  G. 

476. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Tuesday  Night  [September  9],  1783. 

It  is  singular,  or  rather  it  is  natural  that  we  should  both 
entertain  the  same  idea,  for  I  give  you  my  word  that  I  was  very 
near  running  down  to  Sheffield  and  staying  there  till  Wednesday. 
Another  day,  and  no  letter  from  Deyverdun  ;  indeed  the  two 
Flanders  mails  are  still  due.  I  have  written  to  him  this  post. 
To-morrow  Crauford  dines  again  with  the  Secretary,  and  the 
business  is  to  be  decided.*     I  find  Storer  is  now  likely  to  succeed 

1  Probably  "Fish  "  Crauford,  a  friend  of  C.  J.  Fox,  and  distinguished  by 
his  Eton  nickname,  given  him  for  his  curiosity,  from  his  brother  "  Flesh  " 
Crauford. 

*  The  treaties  of  peace  with  the  United  States,  France,  Spain,  and 
Holland  were  signed  at  Versailles,  September  2,  1783. 

*  Gibbon  hoped  that  he  might  be  appointed  either  a  Commissioner  of 
Excise,  or  secretary  to  the  British  Legation  at  Paris,  where  the  Duke  of 
Manchester  was  at  this  time  ambassador.  The  latter  post  was  given  to 
Anthony  Morris  Storer,  M.P.  for  Morpeth,  one  of  the  Admirable  Crichtons 
of  the  day,  celebrated  as  a  dancer,  skater,  gymnast,  musician,  and  writer  of 


68  gibbon's  COKRESPONDENCE.  [1783, 

not  so  much  from  the  zeal  and  activity  of  Lord's  N.'s  friendship^ 
as  because  he  could  resign  a  place  which  Fox  wants  for  Colonel 
Stanhope,  to  whom  however  he  has  given  Thomas's  company  in 
the  Guards.    I  will  write  another  line  to-morrow.    Adieu. 

E.  G. 
Newton,  I  think  with  reasons  postpones  any  special  power 
of  Attorney  till  we  are  farther  advanced,  either  with  Cromwell's 
Ghent  or  some  other  purchaser:  he  says  there  will  be  sufficient 
time  to  send  and  return  one  while  the  title  is  under  examination. 


477. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Thursday,  September  11th,  1783. 

*The  scheme  (which  you  may  impart  to  My  lady)  is  compleatly 
vanished,  and  I  support  the  disappointment  with  Heroic  patience. 
Crauford  goes  down  to  Chatsworth  to-morrow,  and  Fox  does 
not  recommend  my  waiting  for  the  event ;  yet  the  appointment 
is  not  yet  declared,  and  I  am  ignorant  of  the  name  and  merits 
of  my  successful  competitor.  Is  it  not  wonderful  that  I  am  still 
in  suspense,  without  a  letter  from  Deyverdun  ?  No,  it  is  not 
wonderful,  since  no  Flanders  mail  is  arrived  :  to-morrow  three 
will  be  due.  I  am  therefore  in  a  miserable  state  of  doubt  and 
anxiety  ;  in  a  much  better  house  indeed  than  my  own,  but  without 
books,   or  business,   or  society.     I  send  or  call  two  or  three 

Latin  verse.  His  magnificent  library  ho  left  to  Eton  College  at  his  death 
in  1799.  Fox,  no  doubt,  used  his  influence  on  this  occasion  against  Gibbon. 
His  lines  have  been  already  quoted.  Another  illustration  of  his  impression 
that  Gibbon  was  bought  by  a  place  is  afforded  by  the  following  extract 
from  Walpole's  Journal  of  the  Beign  of  King  George  III.  from  the  Year  1771 
to  1783,  vol.  ii.  p.  464.  "June  28,  1781 :  Last  week  was  sold  by  auction  the 
very  valuable  library  of  an  honourable  representative"  (C.  J.  Fox)  "of 
Westminster,  and  which  had  been  taken,  with  all  his  effects,  in  execution. 
Amongst  the  books  there  was  Mr.  Gibbon's  first  volume  of  the  Roman  History, 
and  which  appeared  by  the  title-page  to  have  been  given  by  tlie  author  to  his 
honourable  friend,  who  thought  proper  to  subscribe  the  following  anecdote : — 
'  The  author  at  Brookes's  said,  there  was  no  salvation  for  this  country  until 
six  heads  of  the  principal  persons  in  Administration  were  laid  on  the  table. 
Eleven  days  after,  this  same  gentleman  accepted  a  place  of  Lord  of  Trade 
under  those  very  Ministers,  and  has  acted  with  them  ever  since.'  Such  was 
the  avidity  of  bidders  for  the  smallest  production  of  so  wonderful  a  genius, 
that  by  the  addition  of  this  little  record  the  book  sold  for  three  guineas." 


1783.]  DEPARTURE  DELAYED.  69 

times  each  day  to  Elmsley's,  and  can  only  say  that  I  shall  fly  the 
next  day,  Saturday,  Sunday,  &c.  after  I  have  got  my  quietus* 

Aunt  Kitty  was  delighted  with  Mylady's  letter ;  at  her  age, 
and  in  her  situation,  every  kind  attention  is  pleasant.  I  took 
my  leave  this  morning ;  and  as  I  did  not  wish  to  repeat  the 
scene,  and  thought  she  would  be  better  at  Sheffield,  I  suffer  her 
to  go  to-morrow.  Your  discretion  will  communicate  or  withhold 
any  tidings  of  my  departure  or  delay  as  you  judge  most  expedient. 
Christie  writes  to  you  this  post ;  he  talks,  in  his  rhetorical 
way,  of  many  purchasers.  Do  you  approve  of  his  fixing  a  day 
for  the  Auction  ?     To  us  he  talked  of  an  indefinite  advertisement. 

*]Sro  news,  except  that  we  keep  Negapatnam.^  The  other  day 
the  French  Ambassador  mentioned  that  the  Empress  of  Russia, 

a  precious  B ,  had  proposed  to  ratify  the  principles  of  the 

armed  neutrality,  by  a  definitive  treaty,  but  that  the  French, 
obliging  creatures  !  had  declared  that  they  would  neither  propose 
nor  accept  an  article  so  disagreable  to  England.  Grey  Elliot 
was  pleased  with  your  attention,  and  says  you  are  a  perfect 
master  of  the  subject.^  Adieu.  If  I  could  be  sure  that  no  mail 
would  arrive  to-morrow,  I  would  run  down  with  my  aunt.  My 
heart  is  not  light.  I  embrace  My  lady  with  true  affection,  but 
I  need  not  repeat  it. 

E.  G. 

478. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Downing^Street,  Friday,  September  12th,  178R. 

*Since  my  departure  is  near,  and  inevitable,  you  and  Lady  S. 
will  be  rather  sorry  than  glad  to  hear  that  I  am  detained,  day 
after  day,  by  the  caprice  of  the  winds.  Three  Flanders  mails  are 
now  due.  I  know  not  how  to  move  without  the  final  letter  from 
Deyverdun,  which  I  expected  a  fortnight  ago,  and  my  fancy 
(perfectly  unreasonable)  begins  to  create  strange  fantoms.  A 
state  of  suspense  is  painful,  but  it  will  be  alleviated  by  the  short 
notes  which  I  mean  to  write,  and  hope  to  receive,  every  post. 

'  By  Article  IV.  of  the  Treaty  with  the  United  Provinces. 

'  The  policy  of  Great  Britain  towards  America  in  matters  of  trade,  on 
■which  Lord  Sheffield  had  spoken  in  April,  1783,  and,  later  in  the  same  year, 
i>ublished  a  pamphlet. 


70  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1783. 

A  separation  has  some  advantages,  though  they  are  purchased 
with  bitter  pangs ;  among  them  is  the  pleasure  of  knowing 
how  dear  we  are  to  our  friends,  and  how  dear  they  are  to  us. 
It  will  be  a  kind  office  to  soothe  Aunt  Kitty's  sorrows,  and  to 
"rock  the  cradle  of  declining  age."  She  will  be  vexed  to  hear 
that  I  am  not  yet  gone  ;  but  she  is  reasonable  and  chearful.*  I 
am  grateful  for  Maria's  attention  to  me  or  my  corpse.    Adieu. 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  G. 

479. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 
Downing  Street,  Saturday,  September  13th,  1783. 

'■''Enfin  la  Bomhe  a  creve. — The  three  Flanders  mails  are  arrived 
this  day,  but  without  any  letters  from  Deyverdun.    Most  in-  % 

comprehensible  !  After  many  adverse  reflections,  I  have  finally 
resolved  to  begin  my  journey  on  Monday ;  a  heavy  journey,  with 
much  apprehension,  and  much  regret.  Yet  I  consider,  1st,  That 
if  he  is  alive  and  well,  (an  unpleasant  if,)  scarcely  any  event 
can  have  happened  to  disappoint  our  mutual  wishes ;  and,  2dly, 
That,  supposing  the  very  worst,  even  that  worst  would  not 
overthrow  my  general  plan  of  hving  abroad,  though  it  would 
derange  my  hopes  of  a  quiet  and  delightful  establishment  with 
my  friend.*  Upon  the  whole,  without  giving  way  to  melancholy 
fears,  my  reason  conjectures  that  his  indolence  thought  it 
superfluous  to  write  any  more,  that  it  was  my  business  to  act 
and  move,  and  his  duty  to  sit  still  and  receive  me  with  open 
arms.  At  least  he  is  well  informed  of  my  operations,  as  I 
wrote  to  him  (since  his  last)  July  31st,  from  Sheffield-place  ; 
August  19th ;  and  this  week,  September  9th.  The  two  first 
have  already  reached  him. 

As  I  shall  not  arrive  at,  or  depart  from,  Dover  till  Tuesday 
night,  (alas !  I  may  be  confined  there  a  week,)  you  will  have 
an  opportunity,  by  dispatching  a  parcel  per  post  to  Elmsly's, 
to  catch  the  Monday's  post.  Let  us  improve  these  last  short 
moments  :  I  want  to  hear  how  poor  Kitty  behaves.  I  am  really 
impatient  to  be  gone.  It  is  provoking  to  be  so  near,  yet  so 
far  from,  certain  persons.  *London  is  a  desert.*  I  dine  to-morrow 
with  the  Paynes,  who  pass  through.     Lord  Loughborough  was 


1783.]  KINDNESS  OF  THE   SHEFFIELDS.  71 

not  returned  from  Buxton  yesterday.*  Sir  H[enry]  C[linton]  ^ 
found  me  out  this  morning ;  with  very  little  trouble  My  Lady 
might  rival  Betsy ;  he  talks  with  rapture  of  visits  to  be  made 
at  Sheffield,  and  returned  at  Brighton.  I  envy  him  those  visits 
more  than  the  red  ribbon*  or  the  glory  of  his  American  campaigns. 
Adieu. 

480. 
To  his  Stepmother. 
Downing  Street,  Saturday,  Sept.  13th,  1783. 

My  dear  Madam, 

You  will  be  surprized  to  receive  another  letter  from  this 
place,  but  I  have  been  detained  this  whole  week  unpleasantly 
enough  by  the  daily  expectation  of  a  Flanders  mail,  though  con- 
sidering the  state  of  the  winds  and  weather  it  is  better  to  be 
detained  in  a  good  house  in  Downing  Street,  than  at  the  Ship 
at  Dover.  My  departure  is  now  finally  determined  for  Monday 
morning,  and  I  travel  with  my  own  horses.  I  shall  lye  at  Sitting- 
bourne,  and  not  reach  Dover  till  the  afternoon  of  the  next  day ; 
my  farther  progress  must  depend  on  the  caprice  of  Neptune  and 
JEolus,  but  the  moment  I  have  escaped  from  their  power  I  will 
send  a  line  by  the  return  of  the  packet. 

Lord  Sheffield  spent  two  or  three  days  with  me  in  his  way 
from  Coventry  races  into  Sussex. 

Nothing  could  exceed,  both  in  word  and  deed,  his  kindness 
and  that  of  his  consort  on  the  present  occasion,  which  has  indeed 
shewn  me  how  dear  I  am  to  my  real  friends.  They  have  taken 
poor  Mrs.  Porten  down  to  Sheffield,  and  I  am  sure  will  contrive 
every  thing  that  can  support  and  dissipate  her  spirits.  They 
both  expressed  to  me  in  the  most  obliging  terms  how  glad  they 
should  have  been  of  a  visit  from  you  ;  but  your  mind  is  firmer, 
and  your  prospects  are  far  more  chearful  than  those  of  my  poor 
Aunt.  Adieu,  my  Dear  Madam  ;  though  I  go  with  pleasure  from 
party  and  dependence  to  a  Philosophical  retreat,  I  cannot  measure 

*  Sir  Henry  Clinton  succeeded  Sir  William  Howe  as  commander-in-chief 
in  America  in  1778.  He  was  severely  blamed  for  leaving  Cornwallis  un- 
supported in  the  Southern  Colonies,  and  for  the  disaster  at  York  Town  in 
1781.  He  died  in  1795,  as  governor  of  Gibraltar.  His  son,  General  Sir 
William  Clinton,  who  served  with  distinction  in  the  Peninsular  War, 
married  Lord  Sheffield's  second  daughter,  Lady  Louisa  Holroyd. 


72  gibbon's  COERESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

without  a  sigh  the  difference  (in  some  degree  imaginary)  between 
one,  and  six,  hundred  miles. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

481. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Dover,  Wednesday,  September  17th,  1783, 

Ten  o'clock  in  the  morning. 

*The  best  laws  are  useless  without  proper  guardians.  Your 
letter  ])er  Sunday's  post  is  not  arrived,  (as  its  fate  is  uncertain, 
and  irrevocable,  you  must  repeat  any  material  article,)  but  that 
per  Monday's  post  reached  me  last  night.  Oliver  ^  is  more  insolent 
than  his  grandfather  ;  but  you  will  cope  with  one,  and  would  not 
have  been  much  afraid  of  the  other.  Last  night  the  wind  was  so 
high,  that  the  vessel  could  not  stir  from  the  harbour  ;  this  day  it 
is  brisk  and  fair.  We  start  about  one  o'clock,  are  flattered  with 
the  hope  of  making  Calais  harbour  by  the  same  tide,  in  three 
hours  and  a  half ;  but  any  delay  will  leave  the  disagreable  option 
of  a  tottering  boat  or  a  tossing  night.  What  a  cursed  thing  to 
live  in  an  island  !  this  step  is  more  awkward  than  the  whole 
journey.  The  Triumvirate  of  this  memorable  embarkation  will 
consist  of  the  grand  Gibbon,  Henry  Laurens,^  Esquire,  President 
of  Congress,  and  Mr.  Secretary,  Colonel,  Admiral,  Philosopher 
Thompson,'  attended  by  three  horses,  who  are  not  the  most 
agreeable  fellow-passengers.     If  we  survive,  I  will  finish  and  seal 

'  Mr.  Oliver  Cromwell,  a  solicitor  with  whom  Gibbon  and  Lord  SheiSeld 
had  business  transactions.  Tlie  Protector's  son,  Henry  Cromwell,  married 
Lady  Elizabeth  Eussell,  and  had,  among  other  children,  a  son,  Henry,  who 
was  born  in  1658.  This  son,  afterwards  Major  Henry  Cromwell,  married 
Mary  Hewling.  Their  grandson  was  this  Mr.  Oliver  Cromwell  of  Cheshunt 
(1742-1821),  the  great-great-grandson  of  the  Protector. 

*  Henry  Laurens  had  been  detained  as  a  prisoner  in  the  Tower  since  his 
capture  in  1779. 

'  Sir  Benjamin  Thompson,  Count  of  Rumford  (1753-1814),  was  born  in 
Massachusetts.  He  was  Secretary  to  the  Province  of  Georgia,  and  after- 
wards Under  Secretary  of  State  under  Lord  G.  Germain.  He  fought  on  the 
Loyalist  side  as  a  Colonel  of  Dragoons,  and  also  served  as  a  volunteer  on 
board  H.M.S.  Victory,  under  Sir  C.  Hardy.  His  Essays,  Political,  Economical, 
and  Philosophical,  were  published  at  London  in  179G-1802.  He  was  knighted 
by  George  III.  in  1784,  and  became  a  Count  of  the  Holy  Eoman  Empire 
in  1791. 


1783.]  HIS  JOURNEY  THROUGH  FRANCE.  73 

my  letter  at  Calais.    Our  salvation  shall  be  ascribed  to  the  prayers 
of  My  lady  and  Aunt ;  for  I  do  believe  they  both  pray. 

Boulogne,  Thursday  morning,  ten  o'clock. 
Instead  of  Calais,  the  wind  has  driven  us  to  Boulogne,  where 
we  landed  in  the  evening,  with  much  noise  and  difficulty.  The 
night  is  passed,  the  Customhouse  is  dispatched,  the  post-horses 
are  ordered,  and  I  shall  start  about  eleven  o'clock.  I  had  not 
the  least  symptom  of  sea  sickness,  while  my  companions  were 
spewing  round  me.  Laurens  has  read  the  pamphlet,^  and  thinks 
it  has  done  much  mischief — a  good  sign  !  Adieu,  the  Captain  is 
impatient.  I  shall  reach  Lausanne  by  the  end  of  next  week,  but 
may  probably  write  on  the  road.* 

482. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Langres,  September  23rd,  1783. 

*Let  the  Geographical  Maria  place  before  you  the  map  of 
France,  and  trace  my  progress  as  far  as  this  place,  through  the 
following  towns  :  Boulogne,  (where  I  was  forced  to  land,)  St. 
Omer,  (where  I  recovered  my  road,)  Aire,  Bethune,  Douay, 
Cambray,  St.  Quentin,  La  Fere,  Laon,  Rheims,  Chalons,  St. 
Dizier,  and  Langres,  where  I  have  just  finished  my  supper.  The 
Inns,  in  general,  more  agreable  to  the  palate,  than  to  the  sight  or 
smell.  But,  with  some  short  exceptions  of  time  and  place,  I  have 
enjoyed  good  weather  and  good  roads,  and  at  the  end  of  the  ninth 
day,  I  feel  so  little  fatigued,  that  the  journey  appears  no  more 
than  a  pleasant  airing.  I  have  generally  conversed  with  Homer 
and  Lord  Clarendon,  often  with  Caplin  and  Muff  ;  ^  sometimes 
with  the  French  postillions — of  the  above-mentioned  animals  the 
least  rational.  To-morrow  I  lye  at  Besan^on,  and,  according  to 
the  arrangement  of  post  or  hired  horses,  shall  either  sup  at 
Lausanne  on  Friday,  or  dine  there  Saturday.  I  feel  some  sus- 
pense and  uneasiness  with  regard  to  Deyverdun  ;  but  in  the  scale 

'  Observations  on  the  Commerce  of  the  American  States.  The  pamphlet 
was  written  by  Lord  Sheffield,  but  published  anonymously  (London,  1783, 
8vo).  It  reached  a  sixth  edition  in  1784,  and  was  translated  into  both  Frencli 
and  German.  In  it  Lord  Sheffield  opposed  Pitt's  plan  of  relaxing  the 
navigation  laws  in  favour  of  America. 

-  Gibbon's  dog. 


74  gibbon's  COERESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

both  of  reason  und  constitution,  my  hopes  preponderate  very 
much  above  my  fears.  From  Lausanne  I  will  immediately  write. 
I  embrace  my  lady.  If  Aunt  Kitty's  gratitude  and  good  breeding 
have  not  driven  her  away  upon  the  first  whisper  of  Brighton,  she 
will  share  this  intelligence  ;  if  she  is  gone,  a  line  from  you  would 
be  humane  and  attentive.  "  Monsieur,  les  Chevaux  seront  prets 
a  cinq  heures.''^ — Adieu,  I  am  going  into  an  excellent  bed,  about 
six  feet  high  from  the  ground.* 

483. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  September  30th,  1783. 

*I  arrived  safe  in  harbour  last  Saturday,  the  27th  instant,  about 
ten  o'clock  in  the  morning  ;  but  as  the  post  only  goes  out  twice 
a  week,  it  was  not  in  my  power  to  write  before  this  day.  Except 
one  day,  between  Langres  and  Besan5on,  which  was  laborious 
enough,  I  finished  my  easy  and  gentle  airing  without  any  fatigue, 
either  of  mind  or  body.  I  found  Deyverdun  well  and  happy,  but 
much  more  happy  at  the  sight  of  a  friend,  and  the  accomplishment 
of  a  scheme  which  he  had  so  long  and  impatiently  desired.  His 
garden,  terrace,  and  jMrA-:,  have  even  exceeded  the  most  sanguine 
of  my  expectations  and  remembrances  ;  and  you  yourself  cannot 
have  forgotten  the  charming  prospect  of  the  Lake,  the  mountains, 
and  the  declivity  of  the  Pays  de  Yaud.  But  as  human  life  is 
perpetually  checquered  with  good  and  evil,  I  have  found  some 
disappointments  on  my  arrival.  The  easy  nature  of  Deyverdun, 
his  indolence,  and  his  impatience,  had  prompted  him  to  reckon 
too  positively  that  his  house  would  be  vacant  at  Michaelmas  ; 
some  unforeseen  difficulties  have  arisen,  or  have  been  discovered 
when  it  was  already  too  late,  and  the  consummation  of  our  hopes 
is  (I  am  much  afraid)  postponed  to  next  spring.  At  first  I  was 
knocked  down  by  the  unexpected  thunderbolt,  but  I  have  gradu- 
ally been  reconciled  to  my  fate,  and  have  granted  a  free  and 
gracious  pardon  to  my  friend.  As  his  own  apartment,  which 
afforded  me  a  temporary  shelter,  is  much  too  narrow  for  a  settled 
residence,  we  hired  for  the  winter  a  convenient  ready  fm-nished 
apartment  in  the  nearest  part  of  the  Rue  de  Bourg,  whose  back 
door  leads  in  three  steps  to  the  terrace  and  garden,  as  often  as  a 


1783.]  THE  ABB1&  EAYNAL.  75 

tolerable  day  shall  tempt  us  to  enjoy  their  beauties  ;  and  this 
arrangement  has  even  its  advantage,  of  giving  us  time  to  delibe- 
rate and  provide,  before  we  enter  on  a  larger  and  more  regular 
establishment. 

But  this  is  not  the  sura  of  my  misfortunes  ;  hear,  and  pity  ! 
The  day  after  my  arrival  (Sunday)  we  had  just  finished  a  very 
temperate  dinner,  and  intended  to  begin  a  round  of  visits  on 
foot,  chapeau  sous  le  l?ras,  when,  most  unfortunately,  Deyver- 
dun  proposed  to  show  me  something  in  the  Court ;  we  boldly 
and  successfully  ascended  a  flight  of  stone  steps,  but  in  the 
descent  I  missed  my  footing,  and  strained,  or  sprained,  my  ancle 
in  a  painful  manner.  My  old  latent  Enemy,  (I  do  not  mean  the 
Devil,)  who  is  always  on  the  watch,  has  made  an  ungenerous  use 
of  his  advantage,  and  I  much  fear  that  my  arrival  at  Lausanne 
will  be  marked  with  a  fit  of  the  Gout,  though  it  is  quite  un- 
necessary that  the  intelligence  or  suspicion  should  find  its  way  to 
Bath.  Yesterday  afternoon  I  lay,  or  at  least  sat,  in  state  to 
receive  visits,  and  at  the  same  moment  my  room  was  filled  with 
four  different  nations.  The  loudest  of  these  nations  was  the 
single  voice  of  the  Abbe  RaynaV  who,  like  your  friend,  has  chosen 
this  place  for  the  azylum  of  freedom  and  history.  His  conversa- 
tion, which  might  be  very  agTeable,  is  intolerably  loud,  peremptory, 
and  insolent ;  and  you  would  imagine  that  he  alone  was  the 
Monarch  and  legislator  of  the  World. 

Adieu.  I  embrace  My  lady,  and  the  infants.*  Inform 
Maria  that  my  accident  has  prevented  me  from  looking  oul 
for  a  proper  spot  for  my  interment.  ^With  regard  to  the  im- 
portant transactions  for  which  you  are  constituted  Plenipoten- 
tiary, I  expect  with  some  impatience,  but  with  perfect  confidence, 
the    result   of    your   labours.      You    may    remember    what    I 

'  The  Abbe  Eaynal  (1713-1796)  published  in  1770  his  Eistoire  philoso- 
plaque  des  e'tablissemeiits  et  du  commerce  des  Europ^ens  dans  les  deux  Indes. 
The  work  was  put  on  the  Index  for  its  anti-religious  tendency.  His  book, 
says  Michelet,  was  for  twenty  years  the  Bible  of  two  worlds.  Toussaint 
rOuverture  learned  passages  from  it  by  heart ;  Bernardin  de  St.  Pierre  was 
inspired  by  it;  to  its  author  Napoleon  Bonaparte  dedicated  in  1787  his 
manuscript  Essai  sur  I'histoire  de  la  Corse.  Dr.  Johnson,  according  to 
Hannah  More,  refused  to  shake  hands  with  the  Abbe'.  "Sir,"  he  said 
to  a  friend,  "  I  will  not  shake  hands  with  an  infidel !  "  RaymU  published 
a  new  edition  in  1780,  which  was  still  more  outspoken  in  its  religious  and 
political  views.  In  consequence  he  was  obliged  to  leitve  France,  and  settled 
in  Switzerland.    In  1788  he  returned  to  France,  and  died  in  1796. 


76  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

mentioned  of  my  conversation  with  Charles  Fox  about  the 
place  of  Minister  at  Bern  :  I  have  talked  it  over  with  Deyverduu, 
who  does  not  disHke  the  idea,  provided  this  place  was  allowed 
to  be  my  Villa,  during  at  least  two-thirds  of  the  Year ;  but 
for  my  part,  I  am  sure  that*  a  thousand  guineas  *is  worth  more 
than  Ministerial  friendship  and  gratitude  ;  so  I  am  inclined  to 
think,  that  they  are  preferable  to  an  office  which  would  be 
procured  with  difficulty,  enjoyed  with  constraint  and  expence, 
and  lost,  perhaps,  next  April,  in  the  annual  Revolutions  of  our 
domestic  Government.    Again  Adieu.* 


484. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  September  30tli,  1783. 

Bear  Madam, 

As  I  know  you  prefer  a  speedy  to  a  long  letter,  I  write 
by  the  first  post  to  inform  you  that  after  an  easy  and  pleasant 
journey  of  thirteen  days,  I  arrived  here  on  Saturday  the  27tli 
instant  in  perfect  health  both  of  mind  and  body.  You  will  not 
expect  that  I  should  inform  you  how  far  my  expectations  are 
answered  in  any  or  in  every  respect.  The  very  novelty  and 
beauty  of  the  scene  would  give  a  pleasing  colour  to  every  object, 
and  the  satisfaction  of  meeting  and  conversing  with  an  old  friend 
like  Deyverdun  is  alone  worth  a  journey  of  six  hundred  miles. 
He  has  not  forgot  his  obligations  to  you,  and  begs  me  in  his  name 
to  say  everything  that  is  kind  and  grateful.  We  have  been  so 
compleatly  taken  up  and  satisfied  with  each  other  that  as  yet  I 
have  scarcely  stirred  from  home,  and  as  this  is  the  season  of  the 
vintage  the  town  is  remarkably  empty.  But  the  weather  is  good, 
and  our  terrace  now  affords  such  a  prospect  of  the  lake  and 
mountains,  as  cannot  perhaps  be  equalled  in  the  World.  I  most 
sincerely  wish  that  you  were  walking  there,  and  you  would  soon 
forget  the  more  humble  beauties  of  your  Belvidere.  But  I  must 
content  myself  with  the  hope,  and  not  a  distant  hope,  of  seein"- 
you  again  on  the  hills,  not  of  Switzerland  but  of  Bath. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 
Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 


1783.]  THE   CHARMS  OP  LAUSANNE.  77 

That  we  may  never  resume  the  indelicate  subject,  I  shall 
say  once  for  all  that  every  Christmas  and  Midsummer  Day,  with- 
out expecting  any  draught  from  me,  you  need  only  send  your 
commands  to  Messrs.  Gosling,  Bankers  in  Fleet  Street,  as  thus, 

Pay  to  Mr. the  sum  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds,  and 

place  to  the  account  of  E.  G.,  Esq.,  for  D.  G.    They  arc  properly 
instructed. 

485. 

To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  October  28th,  1783. 

*The  progress  of  my  Gout  is  in  general  so  regular,  and  there 
is  so  much  uniformity  in  the  history  of  its  decline  and  fall,  that 
I  have  hitherto  indulged  my  laziness,  without  much  shame  or 
remorse,  without  supposing  that  you  would  be  very  anxious  for 
my  safety,  which  has  been  sufficiently  provided  for  by  the  triple 
care  of  my  friend  Deyverdun,  my  humbler  friend  Caplin,  and 
a  very  conversable  Physician  (not  the  famous  Tissot'),  whose 
ordinary  fee  is  ten  Batz,  about  fifteen  pence  English.  After  the 
usual  encrease  and  decrease  of  my  member  (for  it  has  been  con- 
fined to  the  injured  foot),  the  Gout  has  retired  in  good  order, 
and  the  remains  of  weakness,  which  obliged  me  to  move  on  the 
rugged  pavement  of  Lausanne  with  a  stick,  or  rather  small  crutch, 
are  to  be  ascribed  to  the  sprain,  which  might  have  been  a  much 
more  serious  business. 

As  I  have  now  spent  a  month  at  Lausanne,  you  will 
inquire  with  much  curiosity,  more  kindness,  and  some  mixture 
of  spite  and  malignity,  how  far  the  place  has  answered  my 
expectations,  and  whether  I  do  not  repent  of  a  resolution 
which  has  appeared  so  rash  and  ridiculous  to  my  ambitious 
friends  ?  To  this  question,  however  natural  and  reasonable, 
I  shall  not  return  an  immediate  answer,  for  two  reasons : 
1.  /  have  not  yet  made  a  fair  tryal.  The  disappointment  and 
delay  with  regard  to   Deyverdun's  house,  will  confine  us  this 

•  Simon  Andre  Tissot  (1728-1797)  was  one  of  the  most  skilful  physicians 
of  the  day,  excelling,  says  Madame  de  Genlis,  alike  in  the  theory  and  practice 
of  his  art.  Among  his  voluminous  works  in  Latin  and  French  were  Avis  au 
peuple  sur  sa  sant€  (1761),  and  Be  valetudine  litteratorum  (1766),  whicli  he 
translated  into  French  under  the  title  of  De  la  sant^dee  gens  de  lettre  (1769). 


78  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [ITsS; 

winter  to  lodgings,  rather  convenient  than  spacious  or  pleasant. 
I  am  only  beginning  to  recover  my  strength  and  liberty,  and  to 
look  about  on  persons  and  things  ;  the  greatest  part  of  those 
persons  are  in  the  Country  taken  up  with  their  Vintage  :  my 
books  are  not  yet  arrived,  and,  in  short,  I  cannot  look  upon 
myself  as  settled  in  that  comfortable  way  which  you  and  I  under- 
stand and  relish.  Yet  the  weather  has  been  heavenly,  and  till 
this  time,  the  end  of  October,  we  enjoy  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
and.  somewhat  gently  complain  of  its  immoderate  heat.  2.  If  I 
should  be  too  sanguine  in  expressing  my  satisfaction  in  what 
I  have  done,  you  would  ascribe  that  satisfaction  to  the  novelty 
of  the  scene,  and.  the  inconstancy  of  man  ;  and  I  deem  it  far 
more  safe  and  prudent  to  postpone  any  positive  declaration,  till 
I  am  placed  by  experience  beyond  the  danger  of  repentance  and 
recantation. 

Yet  of  one  thing  I  am  sure,  that  I  possess  in  this  Country, 
as  well  as  in  England,  the  best  cordial  of  life,  a  sincere, 
tender,  and  sensible  friend,  adorned  with  the  most  valuable  and 
pleasant  qualities  both  of  the  heart  and  head.  The  inferior 
enjoyments  of  leisure  and  society  are  likewise  in  my  power  ;  and 
in  the  short  excursions  which  I  have  hitherto  made,  I  have  com- 
menced or  renewed  my  acquaintance  with  a  certain  number  of 
persons,  more  especially  women,  (who,  at  least  in  France  and  this 
country,  are  undoubtedly  superior  to  our  prouder  sex,)  of  rational 
mind?  and  elegant  manners.  I  breakfast  alone,  and  have  declared 
that  I  receive  no  visits  in  the  morning,  which  you  will  easily 
suppose  is  devoted  to  study.  I  find  it  impossible,  without  incon- 
venience, to  defer  my  dinner  beyond  two  o'Clock.  "We  have  got 
a  very  good  Woman  Cook.  Deyverdun,  who  is  somewhat  of  an 
Epicurean  Philosopher,  understands  the  management  of  a  table, 
and  we  frequently  invite  a  guest  or  two  to  share  our  luxurious, 
but  not  extravagant  repasts.  The  afternoons  are  (and  will  be 
much  more  so  hereafter)  devoted  to  society,  and  I  shall  find  it 
necessary  to  play  at  cards  much  oftener  than  in  London  :  but 
I  do  not  dislike  that  way  of  passing  a  couple  of  hours,  and  I 
shall  not  be  ruined  at  Shilling  whist.  As  yet  I  have  not  supped, 
but  in  the  Course  of  the  winter  I  must  sometimes  sacrifice  an 
evening  abroad,  and  in  exchange  I  hope  sometimes  to  steal  a  day 
at  home,  without  going  into  Company.* 

As  every  idea  which  relates  to  you  and  yours  is  always 


1783.]  A   PENSION  FOR  MISS   HOLROYD.  79 

uppermost  in  my  mind,  I  have  not  forgot  our  schemes  to  finish 
in  this  School  of  freedom  and  equality  the  education  of  the 
future  Baroness  of  Roscommon,^  and  Deyverdun  agrees  with 
me  in  thinking  that  a  couple  of  years  spent  at  Lausanne  would 
be  of  infinite  service  to  her.  But  as  I  am  convinced  that  she 
has  attained  the  age  in  which  it  would  be  the  most  beneficial 
and  the  least  dangerous,  I  would  recommend  speedy  and 
decisive  measures.  If  you  could  be  satisfied  with  an  ordinary 
plan  (I  hate  the  name  and  idea  of  a  boarding  school)  Maria 
might  be  entrusted  to  a  Madame  Ostervald  (Lord  S.  knew 
and  liked  her  under  the  name  of  Mademoiselle  Bourgeois), 
who  educates  with  reputation  and  success  several  young  ladies 
of  fashion.  But  as  your  daughter  deserves  a  special  and  superior 
guide,  we  have  cast  our  eyes  (without  knowing  whether  she  would 
accept  it)  on  a  lady,  who,  by  her  birth,  station,  connections, 
understanding,  knowledge,  and  temper,  appears,  in  the  judgment 
of  Deyverdun,  her  particular  friend,  to  be  not  unworthy  to  supply 
your  place.  She  lives  next  door  to  us,  and  our  eyes  and  ears 
(two  pair)  would  be  continually  open.  If  you  found  an  oppor- 
tunity of  sending  Maria  in  the  spring  with  any  proper  travellers, 
"We  would  meet  her  at  Geneva,  Lyons,  &c.  With  such  a  hostage, 
I  should  be  sure  of  seeing  Lord  S.  and  yourself,  and  a  year's  trial 
would  determine  you  to  leave  or  remove  her.  If  you  listen 
seriously  to  this  idea,  I  will  send  you  more  particular  accounts, 
and  take  every  proper  step.  If  you  cannot  resolve,  accept  this 
havardage  as  a  proof  of  love  and  solicitude. 

*I  have  all  this  time  been  talking  to  Lord  S.  ;  I  hope  that 
he  has  dispatched  my  affairs,  and  it  would  give  me  pleasure  to 
hear  that  I  am  no  longer  member  for  Lymington,  nor  Lord  of 
Lenhoroiigli.  Adieu.  I  feel  every  day  that  the  distance  serves 
only  to  make  me  think  with  more  tenderness  of  the  persons 
whom  I  love.* 

On  reading  what  I  have  written,  I  must  laugh  at  my  sudden 
and  peremptory  recommendations  about  Maria,  yet  I  coolly  think 
it  the  best  scheme.  You  oblige  me  beyond  expression  by  your 
kindness  to  Aunt  Kitty.     N.B.  I  always  desire  double  letters. — 

*  Baron  Sheffield  of  Dunamore  (1781)  was,  in  September,  1783,  created 
Baron  Sheffield  of  Roscommon,  with  remainder  to  his  daughters  severally. 
His  heir  was  at  this  time  liis  daughter,  the  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd,  afterwards 
Lady  Stanley  of  Alderley. 


80  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1783. 

I  find  I  shall  have  some  commissions  for  you  (Sheffelina),  but  I 
do  not  suppose  you  in  town  till  after  Christmas. 

486. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  November  14th,  1783. 

*Last  Tuesday,  November  11th,  after  plaguing  and  vexing 
yourself  all  the  morning  about  some  business  of  your  fertile 
creation,  you  went  to  the  House  of  Commons,  and  passed  the 
afternoon,  the  evening,  and  perhaps  the  night,  without  sleep  or 
food,  stifled  in  a  close  room  by  the  heated  respiration  of  six 
hundred  politicians,  inflamed  by  party  and  passion,  and  tired  of 
the  repetition  of  dull  nonsense,  which,  in  that  illustrious  assembly, 
so  far  outweighs  the  proportion  of  reason  and  eloquence.  On  the 
same  day,  after  a  studious  morning,  a  friendly  dinner,  and  a 
chearf  ul  assembly  of  both  sexes,  I  retired  to  rest  at  eleven  o'Clock, 
satisfied  with  the  past  day,  and  certain  that  the  next  would  afford 
me  the  return  of  the  same  quiet  and  rational  enjoyments.  Which 
has  the  better  bargain  ? 

Seriously,  I  am  every  hour  more  grateful  to  my  own  judg- 
ment and  resolution,  and  only  regret  that  I  so  long  delayed 
the  execution  of  a  favourite  plan,  which  I  am  convinced  is  the 
best  adapted  to  my  character  and  inclinations.  Your  con- 
jecture of  the  revolutions  of  my  face,  when  I  heard  that  the 
house  was  for  this  winter  inaccessible,  is  probable,  but  false. 
I  bore  my  disappointment  with  the  temper  of  a  Sage,  and  only 
use  it  to  render  the  prospect  of  next  year  still  more  pleasing  to 
my  imagination.  You  are  likewise  mistaken,  in  imputing  my 
fall  to  the  awkwardness  of  my  limbs.  The  same  accident  might 
have  happened  to  Slingsby  himself,  or  to  any  Hero  of  the  age, 
the  most  distinguished  for  his  bodily  activity.  I  have  now 
resumed  my  entire  strength,  and  walk  with  caution,  yet  with 
speed  and  safety,  through  the  streets  of  this  mountainous  city. 
After  a  month  of  the  finest  autumn  I  ever  saw,  the  Bise'^  made  me 
feel  my  old  acquaintance ;  the  weather  is  now  milder,  and  this 
present  day  is  dark  and  rainy,  not  much  better  than  what  you 
probably  enjoy  in  England.     The  town  is  comparatively  empty, 

'  The  north-east  wind. 


1783.]  OLD  ACQUAINTANCES   AT  LAUSANNE.  81 

but  the  Noblesse  are  returning  every  day  from  their  Chateaux, 
and  I  already  perceive  that  I  shall  have  more  reason  to  complain 
of  dissipation  than  of  dulness. 

As  I  told  Lady  S.,  I  am  afraid  of  being  too  rash  and 
hasty  in  expressing  my  satisfaction ;  but  I  must  again  repeat, 
that  appearances  are  extremely  favourable.  I  am  sensible  that 
general  praise  conveys  no  distinct  ideas,  but  it  is  very  difficult 
to  enter  into  particulars  Avhere  the  individuals  are  unknown, 
or  indifferent  to  our  correspondent.  You  have  forgotten  the 
old  Generation,  and  in  twenty  years  a  new  one  is  grown  up. 
Death  has  swept  many  from  the  World,  and  chance  or  choice 
has  brought  many  to  this  place.  If  you  enquire  after  your 
old  acquaintance  Catherine  Crousaz,  you  must  be  told,  that 
she  is  solitary,  uggly,  blind,  and  universally  forgotten.  Your 
later  flame,  and  our  common  Goddess,  the  Ehza,^  passed  a  month 
at  the  Inn.  The  greatest  part  of  the  time  either  in  fit  or  taking 
the  air  on  horseback.  She  came  to  consult  Tissot,  and  was 
acquainted  with  Cerjat,  but  she  appears  to  have  made  no  con- 
quests, and  no  fountain  has  been  dedicated  to  her  memory.* 

And  now  to  business.  By  this  time  those  who  would  give 
me  nothing  else  have  nobly  rewarded  my  merit  with  the  Chiltern 
Hundreds.  I  retire  without  a  sigh  from  the  Senate,  and  am  only 
impatient  to  hear  that  you  have  received  the  sum,  which  your 
modesty  was  content  to  take  for  my  seat.  Sir  Andrew  ^  is  an 
honourable  man,  yet  I  am  satisfied  that  you  have  not  neglected 
any  of  the  necessary  precautions.  It  will  be  advisable  to  have 
the  odd  hundred  in  Gosling's  shop  and  to  pay  the  thousand  to 
Messrs.  Barrel,  Winchester  Street,  who  will  vest  it  for  me  in  the 
three  per  cent.  We  must  take  advantage  of  this  stupendous  fall 
of  the  Stocks,  which  amazes  and  frightens  many  poor  souls  here 
who  apprehend  that  poor  old  England  is  on  the  brink  of  ruin. 
But  this  same  circumstance  is  equally  hostile  to  the  sale  of 
Lenborough,  and  though  £200  or  300  a  year  and  some  part  of  my 
tranquillity  depend  on  being  released  from  the  claws  of  my 
Mortgagee,  yet  I  am  much  afraid  that  in  the  present  state  of 
things  an  equal  purchaser  will  not  easily  be  found.     But  your 

'  Lady  Elizabeth  Foster. 

*  Sir  Andrew  Snape  Hamond,  K.N.,  created  a  baronet  in  December, 
1783,  for  liis  services  in  the  American  War,  was  apparently  treating  for  the 
seat  of  Lymington. 

VOL.  II.  G 


82  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

native  vigour  excited  by  friendship  will  remove  monntains  and 
23erform  impossibilities.  My  salvation  would  be  more  assured  if 
I  had  half  as  much  faith  in  any  body  else. 

■*With  regard  to  meaner  cares,  these  are  two,  which  you  can 
and  will  undertake.  1.  As  I  have  not  renounced  my  Country, 
I  should  be  glad  to  hear  of  your  Parliamentary  squabbles,  which 
may  be  done  with  small  trouble  and  expence.  After  an  interesting 
debate,  Miss  Firth  or  My  lady  in  due  time  may  cut  the  speeches 
from  Woodfall.  You  will  write  or  dictate  any  curious  anecdote, 
and  the  whole,  inclosed  in  a  letter,  may  be  dispatched  to  Lausanne. 
2.  A  set  of  "Wedgewood  China,  which  we  talked  of  in  London, 
and  which  would  be  most  acceptable  here.  As  you  have  a  sort  of 
a  taste,  I  leave  to  your  own  choice  the  colour  and  the  pattern ; 
but  as  I  have  the  inclination  and  means  to  live  very  handsomely 
liere,  I  desire  that  the  size  and  number  of  things  may  be  adequate 
to  a  plentiful  table. 

If  you  see  Lord  North,  assure  him  of  my  gratitude ;  had 
he  been  a  more  successful  friend,  I  should  now  be  drudging  at 
the  board  of  Customs,  or  vexed  with  business  in  the  amiable 
society  of  *the  Duke  of  M[anchester].*  To  Lord  Loughborough 
present  a  more  affectionate  sentiment ;  I  am  satisfied  with  his 
intention  to  serve  me,  if  I  had  not  been  in  such  a  fidget.  I  am 
sure  you  will  not  fail,  while  you  are  in  town,  to  visit  and  comfort 
poor  Aunt  Kitty.  I  wrote  to  her  on  my  first  arrival,  and  she 
may  be  assured  that  I  will  not  neglect  her.*  Any  occasional  hints 
from  Bath  will  be  wellcome,  but  nothing  from  hence  must  ever 
transpire.  *To  My  lady  I  say  nothing  ;  we  have  now  our  private 
Correspondence,  into  which  the  eye  of  an  husband  should  not  be 
permitted  to  intrude.  T  am  really  satisfied  with  the  success  of 
the  Pamphlet ;  ^  not  only  because  I  have  a  sneaking  kindness  for 
the  author,  but  as  it  shows  me  that  plain  sense,  full  information, 
and  warm  spirit,  are  still  acceptable  to  the  World.  You  talk  of 
Lausanne  as  a  place  of  retirement ;  yet  from  the  situation  and 
freedom  of  the  Pays  de  Vaud,  all  nations,  and  all  extraordinary 
characters,  are  astonished  to  meet  each  other.  The  Abbe  Eaynal, 
the  grand  Gibbon,  and  Mercier,^  author  of  the  Tableau  de  Paris, 

'  Lord  ShefiSeld'a  Observations.     See  note  to  Letter  481. 

«  Seljastien  Mercier  (1740-1814)  was  the  author,  among  other  works,  of 
VAn  2JltIfi^  a  dream  of  the  future  (1771),  and  of  the  Tableau  de  Paris  (1781), 
in  which  he  advocated  many  useful  reforms.  For  thia  latter  work  he  was 
prosecuted,  and  took  refuge  in  Switzerland. 


I 


1783.]  SALE   OF   LENBOROUGH.  83 

have  been  in  the  same  room.  The  other  day,  the  Prince  and 
Princess  de  Lignc,'  the  Duke  and  Dutchess  d'Ursel,  &c,  came 
from  Brussels  on  purpose  (Hterally  true)  to  act  a  comedy  at 
d'Hermanches's,  in  the  Country.  He  was  dying,  and  could  not 
appear  ;  but  we  had  Comedy,  ball,  and  supper.  The  event  seems 
to  have  revived  him  ;  for  that  great  man  is  fallen  from  his 
ancient  glory,  and  his  nearest  relations  refuse  to  see  him.  I  told 
you  of  poor  Catherine's  deplorable  state  ;  but  Madame  de  Mesery, 
at  the  age  of  sixty-nine,  is  still  handsome.     Adieu.* 

487. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  December  20th,  1783. 

*I  have  received  both  your  Epistles ;  and  as  any  excuse  will 
serve  a  man  who  is  at  the  same  time  very  busy  and  very  idle, 
I  patiently  expected  the  second,  before  I  entertained  any  thoughts 
of  answering  the  first.* 

And  so  poor  Lenborough  is  at  length  sold  ;  poor  indeed  I  may 
call,  for  I  must  confess  that  I  am  most  woefully  disappointed  in 
the  price.  Without  going  back  to  the  Golden  Age  in  which  we 
looked  down  with  disdain  on  the  round  twenty,  you  may  re- 
member that  even  this  summer  we  scarcely  allowed  our  most 
timid  expectations  to  sink  below  seventeen,  and  this  sum  for 
which  it  is  now  sold  falls  £1400  short  of  that  amount,  without 
deducting  the  promised  gratuity  to  Christie. 

You  might  indeed  reckon  on  my  impatience  to  be  delivered 
from  a  heavy  burden  both  of  fortune  and  of  mind  which  I  have 
often  deplored  with  so  much  energy,  but  that  burthen  was  much 
alleviated  by  my  rational  retreat  from  a  scene  of  tumult  and 
expence,  and  I  always  understood  that  we  should  take  the  chance 
of  the  winter  and  of  the  rise  of  stocks  before  we  tryed  the 
decisive  and  almost  irrevocable  measure  of  an  auction.  However 
the  blow  is  struck,  and  I  have  already  reconciled  my  mind  to  this 
new  loss.  I  should  have  been  afraid  of  writing  thus  much  to 
Hugonin,  but  your  nerves  are  more  firmly  strung,  and  through 

>  The  Prince  de  Ligne  (1735-1814)  served  with  distinction  as  a  general 
of  the  Austrian  troops  in  the  Seven  Years'  War  and  the  War  of  Bavarian 
Succession.  He  was  noted  for  his  wit,  and  was  a  voluminous  author  both  in 
prose  and  verse.    He  died  at  Vienna  during  the  Congress  in  1814. 


84  GIBBON'S  COKRESPOXDENCE.  [1783. 

these  expressions  of  disappointment,  you  discern,  that  instead  of 
being  displeased  with  your  conduct,  however  inadequate  to  my 
hopes,  I  feel  myself  inexpressibly  obliged  to  your  pure  fervent  and 
persevering  friendship.  You  will  watch  over  the  conclusion  of 
this  business,  and  whatever  steps  on  my  side  may  be  necessary 
shall  be  diligently  executed  as  soon  as  you  send  me  the  proper 
papers  and  instruction.  When  the  money  is  paid  (in  February) 
you  will  leave  the  residue,  a  wretched  fragment,  in  the  hands 
of  the  Goslings  on  ray  account.  I  have  not  absolutely  determined 
bow  I  shall  employ  it.  Something  must  be  done  in  the  way 
of  annuity,  and  the  French  funds  which  are  very  fashionable  in 
this  country  are  wonderfully  tempting  to  a  poor  man  by  the 
high  interest,  but  I  am  aware  of  their  slippery  foundation,  and 
you  may  be  assured  that  I  shall  do  nothing  of  that  kind  without 
full  and  mature  and  even  cautious  investigation.  For  the  same 
reason,  instead  of  paying  the  money  to  Barrel,  I  could  wish  that 
the  £1100  or  £1000  for  Lymington  (for  we  must  not  haggle 
about  trifles)  may  likewise  slumber  for  a  little  while  in  the  shop 
in  Fleet  Street.  Yet  I  should  not  be  sorry  to  hear  that  the 
direction  comes  too  late  and  that  they  are  already  more  actively 
^employed. 

Sure  I  have  been  particularly  unfortunate  in  my  connections 
•of  business,  for  in  good  truth,  Winton,  Lovegrove,  and  Sir  H. 
Burrard  ^  are  more  than  should  fall  to  the  share  of  one  man. 

Yet  the  last  mentioned  beast  is  no  fool,  and  when  that 
affectionate  kinsman  has  squeezed  the  Minister  to  the  utmost, 
he  will  be  satisfied  with  all  that  he  can  get,  and  will  not  suffer 
his  farm  to  lye  fallow  without  being  of  any  value  either  to 
landlord  or  tenant.  *I  therefore  conclude,  on  every  principle 
of  common  sense,  that,  before  this  moment,  his  own  interest  and 
that  of  the  Government,  stimulated  by  your  active  zeal,  have 
already  expelled  me  from  the  House,  to  which,  without  regret, 
I  bid  an  everlasting  farewell.  The  agreeable  hour  of  five  o'Clock 
in  the  morning,  at  which  you  commonly  retire,  does  not  tend 
to  revive  my  attachment ;  but  if  you  add  the  soft  hours  of 
your  morning  committee,-  in  the  discussion  of  taxes,  customs, 

1  Sir  H.  Burrard,  Bart.,  the  proprietor  of  the  preponderating  interest  in 
borough  of  Lymington. 

*  Lord  ShefiBeld  was  sitting  on  a  Select  Committee  appointed  to  inquire 
into  frauds  committed  on  the  revenue. 


1783.  PRIDE  IN  FOX'S  FAME.  85 

frauds,  smugglers,  &c.,  I  think  I  should  beg  to  be  released 
and  quietly  sent  to  the  Gallies,  us  a  place  of  leisure  and  freedom. 
Yet  I  do  not  depart  from  my  general  principles  of  toleration  ; 
some  animals  are  made  to  live  in  the  water,  others  on  the  Earth, 
many  in  the  air,  and  some,  as  it  is  now  believed,  even  in  fire. 
Your  present  hurry  of  ParHament  I  perfectly  understand ;  when 
opposition  make  the  attack — 

Hor£B 

Momento  cita  mors  venit,  aut  victoria  Iseta. 

But  when  the  Minister  brings  forward  strong  and  decisive 
measure,  he  at  length  prevails ;  but  his  progress  is  retarded 
at  every  step,  and  in  every  stage  of  the  bill,  by  a  perti- 
nacious, though  unsuccessful,  minority.  I  am  not  sorry  to 
hear  of  the  splendour  of  Fox ;  I  am  proud,  in  a  foreign 
Country,  of  his  fame  and  abilities,  and  our  little  animosities  are 
extinguished  by  my  retreat  from  the  English  Stage.  With 
regard  to  the  substance  of  the  business,  I  scarcely  know  what 
to  think :  the  vices  of  the  Company,^  both  in  their  persons  and 

^  Early  in  1781  two  committees  of  the  House  of  Commons  Avere  appointed 
to  inquire  into  the  atfairs  of  India.  Oue,  a  Select  Committee,  considered 
the  best  means  of  governing  the  British  possessions  in  tlie  East  Indies  ;  the 
other,  a  Secret  Committee,  inquired  into  the  causes  of  the  war  in  tlie  Carnatic, 
and  the  condition  of  the  British  possessions  in  those  parts.  On  April  ?, 
1782,  the  Lord  Advocate,  Henry  iDundas,  the  chairman  of  the  Secret  Com- 
mittee, moved  that  the  reports  of  that  committee  be  referred  to  a  committee 
of  the  whole  House.  On  April  25  he  laid!  three  sets  of  resolutions  on  the 
table.  The  first  set,  which  were  postponed,  related  to  the  general  miscon- 
duct of  the  Company  ;  the  second  set,  condemning  the  administration  of  the 
Presidency  of  Madras,  was  voted;  the  third,  containing  criminal  charges 
against  Sir  Thomas  Rumbold,  the  President  of  the  Madras  Council,  was  also 
voted.  On  these  two  sets  of  resolutions  was  founded  a  Bill  of  pains  and 
penalties  (April  29)  against  Rumbold ;  but  on  July  1,  1783,  a  motion  was 
carried  to  adjourn  the  further  consideration  of  the  Bill  till  October  1.  The 
proceedings,  therefore,  fell  to  the  ground  and  were  not  resumed. 

Meanwhile,  the  resolutions  as  to  the  general  misconduct  of  tlie  Company 
were  severally  agreed  to  by  the  House  on  May  28,  1782.  On  them  was 
founded  a  resolution,  calling  on  the  directors  to  remove  Warren  Hastings, 
Governor-General  of  India,  and  William  Hotnsby,  President  of  the  Council 
of  Bombay.  This  resolution  being  carried,  the  directors  passcnl  an  Order  of 
Recall ;  but  the  order  was  rescinded  on  October  31  by  the  General  Court  of 
Proprietors. 

Side  by  side  with  these  proceedings,  the  reports  of  the  Select  Committee 
were  also  considered.  On  April  24,  1782,  their  chairman,  General  Smith, 
presented  a  series  of  resolutions  which  were  carried,  and  on  them  an  address 


86  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

their  constitution,  were  manifold  and  manifest ;  the  danger  was 
imminent,  and  such  an  Empire,  with  thirty  millions  of  subjects, 
was  not  to  be  lost  for  trifles.  Yet,  on  the  other  hand,  the  faith 
of  Charters,  the  rights  of  property !  I  hesitate  and  tremble. 
Such  an  innovation  would  at  least  require  that  the  remedy 
should  be  as  certain  as  the  evil,  and  the  proprietors  may  perhaps 
insinuate,  that  they  were  as  competent  Guardians  of  their  own 
affairs,  as  either  *George  North  or  L.  Lewisham.^  *  Their  acting 
Avithout  a  salary  seems  childish,  and  their  not  being  removable 
by  the  Crown  is  a  strange  and  dangerous  precedent. 

But  enough  of  politics,  which  I  now  begin  to  view  through  a 
thin,  cold,  distant  cloud,  yet  not  without  a  reasonable  degree  of 
curiosity  and  patriotism.     From  the  papers  (especially  when  you 

was  presented  to  the  king  to  recall  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  Chief  Justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Bengal. 

On  November  20  and  26, 1783,  Fox  brought  in  two  India  Bills :  (1)  vesting 
the  affairs  of  the  Company  in  the  hands  of  seven  commissioners ;  (2)  providing 
for  the  better  government  of  the  territorial  possessions  of  the  Company.  The 
first  Bill  passed  the  House  of  Commons  on  a  division  of  208  to  102,  after  long 
debates,  in  which  the  House  frequently  sat  till  5  a.m.,  on  December  8,  1783, 
and  was  carried  up  to  the  House  of  Lords  on  December  9.  The  first  reading 
took  place  on  December  9,  and  the  second  reading  on  December  15.  A  motion 
for  adjournment  was  carried  against  the  ministers  by  87  to  79,  and  on 
December  17  the  Bill  was  rejected  by  95  to  76. 

On  the  following  day  the  king  called  upon  the  Secretaries  of  State  to 
resign  their  seals  ;  and  on  the  19th  the  rest  of  the  Cabinet  were  dismissed. 

The  new  Ministry  was  thus  com^wsed : — 

William  Pitt  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  and  Chancellor 

of  the  Exchequer. 
Earl  Gower  President  of  the  Council. 

Lord  Thurlow  Lord  Chancellor. 

T,,         '     c  /-I  ii       \  Secretaries  of  State. 

Marquis  of  Carmarthen  j 

The  Duke  of  Rutland       Lord  Privy  Seal. 

Lord  Howe  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty. 

Duke  of  Richmond  Master  of  the  Ordnance. 

Henry  Dundas  Treasurer  of  the  Navy. 

The  first  seven  on  the  list  formed  the  Cabinet. 

The  Duke  of  Dorset  replaced  the  Duke  of  Manchester  as  Ambassador 
at  Paris,  and  Daniel  Hailes  succeeded  Anthony  Storer  as  Secretary  to  the 
Legation. 

Lord  Temple,  the  "  stormy  petrel "  of  politics,  accepted  office  as  Secretary 
for  the  Foreign  Department  on  December  19,  but  resigned  on  December  22. 

'  The  Hon.  George  Augustus  North  (afterwards  Lord  Guilford)  and 
Lord  Lewishara  were  two  of  the  seven  commissioners  named  in  Fox's 
India  Bill. 


1783.]  LORD  NORTH'S  INSIGNIFICANCE.  87 

add  an  occasional  slice  of  the  Chronicle)  I  shall  be  amply  in- 
formed of  facts  and  debates  ;  from  you  I  expect  the  causes  rather 
than  the  events,  the  true  springs  of  action,  and  those  interesting 
anecdotes  which  seldom  ascend  the  garret  of  a  Fleet-Street  editor. 

You  say  that  many  friends  (alias  acquaintance)  have  expressed 
curiosity  and  concern  ;  I  should  not  wish  to  be  immediately 
forgot.  That  others  (you  once  mentioned  Gerard  Hamilton) 
condemn  Government  for  suffering  the  departure  of  a  man  who 
might  have  done  them  some  credit  and  some  service,  perhaps  as 
much  as  Antony  Storer  himself.  To  you,  in  the  confidence  of 
friendship,  and  without  either  pride  or  resentment,  I  will  fairly 
•own  that  I  am  somewhat  of  Gerard's  opinion ;  and  if  I  did  not 
■compare  it  with  the  rest  of  his  character,  I  should  be  astonished 
that  Lord  N[orth]  suffered  me  to  depart,  without  even  a  civil 
■answer  to  my  letter.  Were  I  capable  of  hating  a  man,  whom  it  is 
not  easy  to  hate,  I  should  find  myself  most  amply  revenged  by  the 
insignificance  of  the  creature  in  this  mighty  revolution  of  India, 
his  own  peculiar  department.  But  the  happy  Souls  in  paradise 
are  susceptible  only  of  love  and  pity,  and  though  Lausanne  is 
not  a  paradise,  more  especially  in  Winter,  I  do  assure  you,  in 
sober  prose,  that  it  has  hitherto  fulfilled,  and  even  surpassed,  my 
warmest  expectation.  Yet  I  often  cast  a  look  toward  Sheffield- 
place,  where  you  now  repose,  if  you  can  repose,  during  the 
Christmas  recess. 

Embrace  My  Lady,  the  young  Baroness,  and  the  gentle 
Louisa,  and  insinuate  to  your  silent  Consort,  that  separate 
letters  require  separate  answers.  Had  I  an  air  balloon,  the  great 
topic  of  modern  Conversation,  I  would  call  upon  you  till  the 
meeting  of  parliament.     Vale/' 

488. 

To  his  Stepmother} 

Dear  Madam  Lausanne,  December  27th,  1783. 

Were  we  strangers  to  each  other,  I  might  amuse  myself 
with  deducing  the  causes  of  my  silence  ;  the  long  expectation  of 

'  This  letter,  as  printed  here,  ■was  written  by  Edward  Gibbon  to  his 
etepmotlier ;  a  similar  letter,  in  which  some  of  the  same  phrases  are  re- 
peated, is  printed  in  Lord  ShefiSeld's  edition  of  Gibbon's  Miscellaneous 
Writings  (\o\.  ii.  pp.  340-344),  addressed  to  liis  aunt,  Miss  Catherine 
Porten. 


88  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1783. 

your  answer  and  the  propriety  of  taking  a  clear  view  of  the 
ground  on  which  I  stood  before  I  could  transmit  a  just  and 
satisfactory  account  of  my  situation.  But  it  will  be  better  to 
acknowledge  that  the  old  man,  my  ancient  and  habitual  enemy, 
touched  me  with  his  wand,  and  that  I  am  just  awakening  from 
the  enchanted  slumber.  My  silence  however  may  be  fairly  in- 
terpreted as  an  evidence  of  content.  Indeed,  my  Dear  Madam, 
I  am  happy,  with  as  few  exceptions  as  the  condition  of  human 
Nature  will  allow,  and  among  the  first  of  these  exceptions  I  reckon 
the  interval  of  time  and  space  which  separates  me  from  Bath. 

Since  I  formed  and  executed  this  plan  of  retiring  into  Switzer- 
land I  have  not  once  repented,  I  have  not  felt  a  single  moment  of 
disappointment,  and  my  only  regret  is  the  having  so  long  neglected 
to  obey  the  dictates  of  my  reason  ;  a  more  early  obedience  would 
have  saved  me  some  years  of  dependance,  of  anxiety,  and  of  indis- 
cretion. I  have  always  valued  far  above  the  external  gifts  of 
rank  and  fortune  two  qualities  for  which  I  stand  indebted  to  the 
indulgence  of  Nature,  a  strong  and  constant  passion  for  letters, 
and  a  propensity  to  view  and  to  enjoy  every  object  in  the  most 
favourable  light.  The  first  has  composed  the  daily  happiness  of 
my  life  and  ensured  the  perpetual  enjoyment  of  the  most  pleasing 
labours ;  the  success  of  my  works  has  given  me  a  pure  and 
extensive,  perhaps  a  permanent  reputation,  and  if  the  more  sub- 
stantial rewards  have  too  easily  slipped  through  my  hands,  I  must 
ascribe  their  loss  to  the  obstinancy  with  which  I  struggled  to 
support  a  style  of  life  to  which  the  remains  of  my  fortune  were 
no  longer  adequate. 

My  propensity  to  be  happy  has  been  exercised  on  the  most 
unfavourable  materials  ;  you  have  commonly  seen  a  smile  on 
my  conversation  and  my  letters,  and  as  you  never  distrusted 
the  sincerity  of  my  professions  you  must  have  been  surprized 
at  the  success  of  my  endeavours.  Yet  what  could  be  more 
adverse  to  my  character  than  the  life  which  for  some  years 
past  I  have  led  in  London.  With  the  warmest  love  of  independ- 
ence I  have  stooped  the  slave  of  Ministers.  Without  talents,  or 
at  least  without  resolution  for  a  public  life,  I  have  consumed  days 
and  nights  a  silent  spectator  of  noisy  and  factious  debates.  Con- 
scious that  true  happiness  is  founded  on  oeconomy,  the  disorderly 
state  of  my  affairs  has  never  allowed  me  to  measure  my  income 
and  my  expence,  and  I  have  never  dared  to  cast  my  eyes  on  the 


1783.]  DAILY  LIFE  AT  LAUSANNE.  89 

disbursment  of  the  past  or  the  supplies  of  the  future  year.  How 
different  is  the  prospect  which  I  now  enjoy.  I  find  myself  in  a 
state  of  perfect  independence  and  real  affluence,  and  if  I  continue 
to  enjoy  a  tolerable  state  of  health,  I  cannot  easily  discover  what 
event  is  capable  of  disturbing  my  tranquillity. 

Among  the  ingredients  of  happiness  you  will  agree  with  me  in 
giving  the  preference  to  a  sincere  and  sensible  friend ;  and  though 
you  are  not  acquainted  with  half  his  merit,  you  will  believe  that 
Deyverdun  answers  that  description.  Perhaps  two  persons  so 
perfectly  fitted  for  each  other  were  never  created  by  Nature 
and  education.  Our  studies,  occupations,  and  reflexions  have  been 
sufficiently  various  to  ensure  a  constant  fund  of  entertainment ;  the 
lights  and  shades  of  our  respective  characters  are  happily  blended  ; 
freedom  and  confidence  are  the  basis  of  our  union,  and  a  friendship 
of  thirty  years  has  taught  us  to  enjoy  and  to  support  each  other. 
You  have  often  read  and  heard  the  descriptions  of  this  delightful 
Country,  the  banks  of  the  lake  of  Geneva,  and  indeed  it  surpasses 
all  description.  A  stranger  is  struck  with  surprize  and  admiration, 
and  it  is  endeared  to  me  by  the  remembrance  of  my  youth  and 
the  lively  atttachment  which  I  have  always  retained  for  the  place 
and  the  people.  Our  autumn  has  been  beautiful,  and  the  winter 
has  not  hitherto  been  severe,  but  the  season  of  rural  enjoyments 
is  for  some  time  suspended  and  our  comforts  are  confined  to 
the  fireside.  M.  Deyverdun's  house  is  spacious  and  convenient, 
and  his  garden,  which  spreads  over  a  various  and  extensive  spot, 
unites  every  beauty  and  advantage  both  of  town  and  country. 
But  into  this  paradise  we  are  not  yet  introduced  ;  the  family  to 
whom  he  had  lent  or  let  the  larger  part  of  the  house  have  started 
some  difficulties  about  the  time  of  their  removal,  and  till  the 
month  of  March  or  April  we  are  obliged  to  content  ourselves  with 
a  convenient  ready  furnished  lodging.  When  to  this  disappoint 
ment  I  add  that  my  boxes  of  books  which  were  sent  through 
France  still  loiter  on  the  road,  you  will  confess  that  my  felicity  in 
the  approaching  year  is  more  likely  to  encrease  than  to  diminish. 

With  regard  to  the  daily  enjoyments  of  life,  which  rolls  away 
in  a  quiet  uniform  tenor,  they  are  made  to  be  felt  rather  than  to 
be  related.  I  rise  before  eight,  and  our  mornings  are  commonly 
invisible  to  each  other.  At  two  (an  hour  somewhat  too  early)  we 
dine,  one,  two,  or  three  agreably  very  often  enliven  our  board, 
which  is  served  with  decent  elegance.     From  four  to  between  six 


90  gibbon's  CORRESPOXDENCE.  [1784. 

and  seven  we  read  some  amusing  book,  play  at  chess,  retire  to  our 
rooms,  look  into  the  Coffee  house,  or  make  visits.  The  assemblies 
are  numerous,  and  I  play  my  three  rubbers  at  shilling  or  half- 
crown  whist  with  tolerable  pleasure.  They  end  between  nine  and 
ten,  and  a  bit  of  bread  and  cheese,  with  some  friendly  converse, 
sends  us  to  bed  about  eleven.  This  sober  plan  is  indeed  inter- 
rupted by  too  frequent  suppers,  which  I  want  resolution  to  refuse, 
though  I  behave  with  exemplary  temperance.  Instead  of  lolling 
in  a  coach  I  walk  the  streets  at  all  hours  wrapped  in  a  fur  Cloak — 
the  exercise  is  wholesome,  and  in  my  life  I  never  enjoyed  more 
perfect  health  and  spirits.  May  you  be  able  to  say  as  much  !  If 
vanity  and  Deyverdun  do  not  deceive  me,  I  am  already  a  general 
favourite,  and  as  likings  or  dislikes  are  commonly  mutual,  I  am 
pleased  with  the  manners  of  the  place,  and  the  worthy  and 
amiable  characters  of  many  individuals  of  both  sexes. 

Believe  me.  My  dear  Madam,  I  never  cast  a  look  on  the  politics 
or  the  amusements  of  London.  The  mob  of  political  connections 
or  casual  acquaintance  are  unworthy  of  the  regret  of  a  rational 
mind.  But  in  the  midst  of  a  very  pleasant  life  and  society  I  am 
not  insensible  of  my  separation  from  yourself,  the  Sheffields,  and 
two  or  three  real  friends.  If  their  zeal  should  succeed  in  procuring 
me  any  adequate  office  which  I  could  accept  with  propriety  and 
exercise  without  disgust,  if  Government  should  find  any  situation 
in  which  I  could  do  them  service  and  myself  credit,  I  would  quit 
(perhaps  with  a  sigh)  this  agreable  retreat,  and  obey  without 
hesitation  the  calls  of  friendship,  of  honour,  and  of  my  Country. 


489. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  January  24th,  1784. 

*Within  two  or  three  days  after  your  last  gracious  Epistle,  your 
Complaints  were  silenced,  and  your  enquiries  were  satisfied,  by  an 
ample  dispatch  of  four  pages,  which  overflowed  the  inside  of  the 
cover,  and  in  which  I  exposed  my  opinions  of  things  in  general, 
public  as  well  as  private,  as  they  existed  in  my  mind,  in  my  state 
of  ignorance  and  error,  about  the  eighteenth  or  twentieth  of  last 
month.  Within  a  week  after  that  date  I  epistolised,  in  the  same 
rich  and  copious  strain,  the  two  venerable  females  of  Newman- 


1781.]        DELIGHT  IN  LOED  SHEFFIELD'S  LETTERS.  91 

street  and  the  Belviderc,^  whose  murmur  must  now  be  changed 
into  songs  of  gratitude  and  applause.  My  correspondence  with 
the  holy  Matron  of  Northamptonshire  ^  has  been  less  lively  and 
loquacious.  You  have  not  forgotten  the  Atheist's  vindication  of 
himself  from  the  foul  calumnies  of  pretended  Christians  ;  within 
a  fortnight  after  his  arrival  at  Lausanne,  he  communicated  the 
joyful  event  to  Mrs.  Gr.  She  answered  j)er  return  of  post,  both 
letters  at  the  same  time,  and  in  very  dutiful  language,  almost 
excusing  her  advice,  which  was  intended  for  my  spiritual,  as  well 
as  temporal,  good,  and  assuring  me  that  nohodij  should  be  aide  to 
injure  me  with  her.  Unless  the  Saint  is  an  hypocrite,  possible 
enough,  such  an  expression  must  convey  a  favourable  and  im- 
portant meaning :  at  all  events,  it  is  worth  giving  ourselves  some 
trouble  about  her,  without  indulging  any  sanguine  expectations 
of  inheritance. 

So  much  for  my  females.  With  regard  to  my  male  Cor- 
respondents, you  are  the  only  one  to  whom  I  have  given  any 
signs  of  my  existence,  though  I  have  formed  many  a  generous 
resolution.  Yet  I  am  not  insensible  of  the  kind  and  friendly 
manner  in  which  Lord  Loughborough  has  distinguished  me :  he 
could  have  no  inducements  of  interest,  and  now  that  I  view  the 
distant  picture  with  an  impartial  eye,  I  am  convinced  that  (for  a 
Statesman)  he  was  sincere  though  not  earnest  in  his  wishes  to  serve 
me.  When  you  see  him,  the  Paynes,  Eden,  Crauford,  &c.,  tell 
them  that  I  am  well,  happy,  and  ashamed.  On  your  side,  the  zeal 
and  diligence  of  your  pen  has  surprized  and  delighted  me,  and 
your  letters,  at  this  interesting  moment,  are  exactly  such  as  I 
wished  them  to  be — authentic  anecdotes,  and  rational  speculations, 
worthy  of  a  man  who  acts  a  part  in  the  great  theatre,  and  who 
fills  a  seat,  not  only  in  the  general  Pandemonium,  but  in  the 
private  council  of  the  princes  of  the  infernal  Regions.  With 
regard  to  the  detail  of  Parliamentary  operations,  I  must  repeat  my 
request  to  you,  or  rather  to  Miss  Firth,  who  will  now  be  on  the 
spot,  that  she  will  write,  not  with  her  pen,  but  her  Scissars,  and 
that,  after  every  debate  which  deserves  to  pass  the  Sea  and  the 
Mountains,  she  will  dissect  the  faithful  nan-ative  of  Woodfall,^  and 

'  His  aunt,  Miss  Porten,  and  liis  stepmother. 
'  His  aunt,  Miss  Hester  Gibbon. 

*  William  Woodfall,  formerly  assistant  editor  of  the  Public  Advertiser, 
was  at  this  time  editor  of  the  Morning  Chronicle.     He  was  called  "  Memory 


92  gibbon's  COERESPONDEXCE.  [1784. 

send  it  off  by  the  next  post,  as  an  agreeable  supplement  to  the 
meagre  accounts  of  our  weekly  papers. 

The  wonderful  revolutions  of  last  month  ^  have  sounded  to 
my  ear  more  like  the  shifting  scenes  of  a  Comedy  or  Comic 
Opera,  than  like  the  sober  events  of  real  and  modern  history  ; 
and  the  irregularity  of  our  winter  posts,  which  sometimes  re- 
tarded, and  sometimes  hastened,  the  arrival  of  the  dispatches, 
has  encreased  the  confusion  of  our  ideas.  Surely  the  Lord  has 
blinded  the  eyes  of  Pharaoh  and  of  his  servants ;  the  obstinacy 
of  the  last  spring  ^  was  nothing  compared  to  the  headstrong 
and  headlong  madness  of  this  "Winter.  I  expect  with  much 
impatience  the  first  days  of  your  meeting :  the  purity  and  in- 
tegrity of  the  Coalition  will  suffer  a  fiery  tryal ;  but  if  they  are 
true  to  themselves  and  to  each  other,  a  Majority  of  the  House  of 
Commons  must  prevail ;  the  rebellion  of  the  young  Gentlemen 
will  be  crushed,  and  the  Masters  will  resume  the  Government  of 
the  School.  After  the  address  and  answer,^  I  have  no  conception 
that  Parliament  can  be  dissolved  during  the  Session  ;  but  if  the 
present  Ministry  can  outlive  the  storm,  I  think  the  death  Warrant 
will  infallibly  be  signed  in  the  summer.  Here  I  blush  for  my 
Country,  without  confessing  her  shame.  Fox  acted  like  a  man  of 
Honour,  yet  surely  his  union  with  Pitt  affords  the  only  hope  of 
salvation.     How  miserably  are  we  wasting  the  season  of  peace  ! 

I  have  written  three  pages  before  I  come  to  my  own  busyness 
and  feelings.  In  the  first  place,  I  most  sincerely  rejoyce  that  I 
left  the  ship,  and  swam  ashore  on  a  plank  ;  the  daily  and  hourly 
agitation  in  which  I  must  have  lived  would  have  made  me  truly 
miserable,  if  I  had  obtained  a  place  during  pleasure,  Storer's  for 
instance.     On  the  first  news  of  the  dissolution,  I  considered  my 

Woodfall"  from  his  accuracy  in  remembering  the  speeches  in  Parliament,  of 
which  no  notes  were  then  allowed  to  be  taken.  He  was,  it  is  said  (Auckland 
Correspondence,  vol.  iii.  p.  165),  for  many  years  paid  £400  a  year,  "  for  giving 
the  speeches  of  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr.  Sheridan  much  more  at  length  and  better 
than  he  did  those  of  Mr.  Pitt  and  Mr.  Dundas."  He  was  afterwards  editor 
of  a  paper  called  The  Diary,  which  failed.  He  died  in  1803.  His  brother, 
Henry  Woodfall,  published  the  Letters  of  Junius. 

>  The  fall  of  the  Coalition.     See  note  to  Letter  487. 

-  The  long  delay  in  accepting  the  Coalition  Cabinet.  See  note  to 
Letter  487. 

*  The  House  of  Commons,  after  deferring  the  third  reading  of  the  land- 
tax  Bill,  and  addressing  the  king  against  dissolving  Parliament,  adjourned 
from  December  26  to  January  12,  1784. 


1784.]  THE  SALE  OF  HIS  SEAT.  93 

seat  as  so  totally  and  irrecoverably  gone,  that  I  have  been  less 
affected  with  Sir  Harry's  obstinacy.*  Yet  his  absolute  refusal  to 
treat  throws  us  at  least  for  the  present  into  a  very  uncomfortable 
situation,  and  besides  the  danger  of  shipwreck,  every  day's 
voyage  diminishes  the  value  of  the  ship  and  cargo.  You  say  you 
are  schemeless.    I  can  think  only  of  two  expedients. 

1.  You  know  or  can  know  Sir  Andrew  Hammond,  who  is  a  fair 
and  honourable  character.  Talk  over  the  business  and  kinsman 
fairly  with  him,  and  tempt  him  to  exert  himself  by  the  lowness  of 
the  price.  I  should  consider  even  five  or  six  hundred  pounds  as 
so  much  saved  out  of  the  fire,  and  a  part  of  that  sum  would  be  most 
deliciously  employed  in  the  embellishment  of  my  new  habitation. 

2.  The  other  scheme  is  somewhat  more  delicate,  yet  I  cannot 
esteem  myself  as  bound  to  sacrifice  my  essential  interest  to  that 
motley  crew  surnamed  a  Coalition,  nor  does  this  superiority  in 
Parliament  depend  on  the  loss  of  half-a-vote.  Perhaps  the  new 
Minister  would  give  Sir  Harry  for  his  relations  those  scandalous 
jobs  which  our  late  friends  more  conscientiously  refused,  and  many 
a  Candidate  would  purchase  their  effectual  recommendation  by 
giving  me  the  £1000  or  £1200.  On  this  occasion  remember  you 
are  acting  for  a  j?;oor  friend  ;  dismiss  a  little  of  the  spirit  of 
faction  and  patriotism,  and  stoop  to  a  prudential  line  of  conduct, 
which  in  your  own  case  you  might  possibly  disdain.  If  you 
attempt  the  negociation  you  will  easily  find  the  proper  instru- 
ments, but  I  should  think  James  Grenville,  the  Lord  of  the 
Treasury,  a  safe  and  convenient  channel,  and  I  am  persuaded 
that  he  would  embrace  the  opportunity  of  serving  his  party  and 
obliging  me  at  the  same  time.  In  the  business  of  Lenborough 
you  may  be  active,  but  I  can  only  be  passive  to  convey  a  fair 
Estate,  and  to  receive  a  miserable  pittance  of  three  thousand  and 
some  pounds.  I  hope  nothing  will  happen  to  perplex  the  title  or 
to  delay  the  payment,  and  that  the  sum  will  be  safely  lodged  for 
my  account  and  in  Gosling's  hands  before  the  end  of  February. 

"'Perhaps  you  will  abuse  my  prudence  and  patriotism,  when  I 
inform  you,  that  I  have  already  vested  a  part  (30,000  Livres, 
about  £1300)  in  the  new  loan  of  the  King  of  France.  I  get  eight 
per  Cent,  on  the  joint  lives  of  Deyverdun  and  myself,  besides 
thirty  tickets  in  a  very  advantageous  Lottery,  of  which  the 
highest  prize  is  an  annuity  of  40,000  Livres  (£1700)  a  year.  At 
this  moment,  the  beginning  of  a  peace,  and  probably  a  long  peace, 


94  GIBBON'S  COKRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

I  think  (and  the  World  seems  to  think)  the  French  funds  at  least 
as  solid  as  our  own.  I  have  empowered  my  Agent,  M.  de  Lessart, 
a  capital  banker  at  Paris,  to  draw  upon  Gosling  for  the  money  two 
months  hence ;  and  to  avoid  all  accidents  that  may  result  from 
untoward  delays,  and  mercantile  churlishness,  I  expect  that  you 
will  support  my  credit  in  Fleet-street  with  your  own  more  respect- 
able name.*  Moreover  when  Lenborough  purchase  money  is  paid, 
I  wish  it  were  possible  to  withhold  £1000  or  1500  of  their  mort- 
gage on  our  joint  bond  ;  I  could  employ  it  to  my  satisfaction  at 
present,  and  should  certainly  repay  it  in  three  or  four  years  on 
the  conclusion  of  my  History.  Perhaps  you  will  be  better  recon- 
ciled to  my  pecuniary  arrangements  by  the  proposal  which  I 
seriously  make  of  purchasing  Lee's  farm  at  Buriton,  if  it  can  be 
obtained  for  25  years'  purchase  after  deducting  the  Land  Tax. 
My  interest  without  principal  will  be  compensated  by  principal 
without  interest  (you  remember  Soame  Jenyns's  definition),  and 
whatever  becomes  of  my  French  Creditor,  my  Hampshire  acres 
will  be  safe,  compact,  and  in  due  time  clear  of  all  incumbrances. 
You  may  consult  with  Hugonin,  propose  and  conclude. 

*What  say  you  now  ?  Am  I  not  a  wise  Man  ?  My  letter  is 
enormous,  and  the  post  on  the  wing.  In  a  few  days  I  will  write 
to  my  Lady  herself,  and  enter  something  more  into  the  details  of 
domestic  life.  Suffice  it  to  say,  that  the  scene  becomes  each  day 
more  pleasant  and  comfortable,  and  that  I  complain  only  of  the 
dissipation  of  Lausanne.  In  the  course  of  March  or  April  we 
shall  take  possession  of  Deyverdun's  house.  My  books,  which  by 
some  strange  neglect,  did  not  leave  Paris  till  the  3rd  of  this 
Month,  will  arrive  in  a  few  weeks  ;  and  I  shall  soon  resume  the 
continuation  of  my  history,  which  I  shall  prosecute  with  the  more 
vigour,  as  the  completion  affords  me  a  distant  prospect  of  a  visit 
to  England,*  A-propos,  if  the  box  which  I  left  in  Downing  Street 
for  the  Swiss  Carrier  be  not  already  departed,  I  hope  Elmsley  and 
yourself  will  give  it  a  speedy  and  vigorous  shove  ;  when  you  see 
Elmsley  ask  him  whether  he  has  answered  my  letters :  he  is 
almost  as  lazy  as  myself.  To  my  Lady's  taste  I  shall  entrust  the 
Wedgewood's  ware,  which  in  the  course  of  the  spring  or  summer 
may  accompany  some  other  boxes  of  plate,  linnen,  books  which  I 
shall  probably  invoke.    Adieu.     I  embrace  my  Lady  and  Infants. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 


1781.]  A  FACTIOUS   OPPOSITIOX.  95 

490. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  February  2ud,  1781. 

Baron  ! — 

*After  my  last  enormous  dispatch,  nothing  can  remain, 
except  some  small  gleanings,  or  occasional  hints ;  and  thus  in 
order  :  I  am  not  conscious  that  any  of  your  valuable  MSS.  have 
miscarried,  or  that  I  have  omitted  to  answer  any  essential  par- 
ticulars. They  stand  in  my  Bureau  carefully  arranged,  and 
docketed  under  the  following  dates  ;  September  23,  October  23, 
November  18,  December  2,  December  15,  December  19,  December 
23,  December  29,  January  IG,  which  last  I  have  received  this  day, 
Febr.  2nd.  For  greater  perspicuity,  it  will  not  be  amiss  (on 
either  side)  to  number  our  future  Epistles,  by  a  conspicuous 
Roman  character  inscribed  in  the  front,  to  which  we  may  at  any 
time  refer.  But  instead  of  writing  by  Ostend,  the  shorter  and 
surer  way,  especially  on  all  occasions  that  deserve  celerity,  will  be 
to  direct  them  to  my  Banker,  M.  de  Dessert,  at  Paris,  who  will 
forward  them  to  me.  Through  Germany  the  passage  by  Sea  is 
more  uncertain,  the  roads  worse,  and  the  distance  greater  :  we 
often  complain  of  delay  and  irregularity  at  this  interesting 
moment. 

By  your  last  I  find  that  you  have  boldly  and  generously 
opened  a  treaty  with  the  Enemy,  which  I  proposed  with  fear  and 
hesitation.  I  impatiently  expect  the  result ;  and  again  repeat,  that 
ichatever  you  can  obtain*  for  the  seat,  *I  shall  consider  it  as  s& 
much  saved  out  of  the  fire,  &c.  &c.*  I  shall  then  have  completely 
secured  a  tranquil  though  humble  station,  and  my  personal  hap-^ 
piness  will  no  longer  hang  in  suspense  upon  every  change  of 
Ministry,  and  every  vote  of  ParUament.  I  am  not  surprized  that- 
you  grow  sulky  :  your  free  and  liberal  spirit  must  disdain  a  set  of 
Men,  whose  aim  is  their  own  restoration  to  power,  and  whose- 
means  may  affect  the  principles  of  the  Constitution.^     "Do  you 

*  As  soon  as  Parliament  reassembled  after  the  Christmas  recess  (January 
12,  1784),  the  House  of  Commons  resolved  itself  into  a  committee  on  the 
state  of  the  nation  in  order  to  prevent  an  immediate  dissolution.  Two 
resolutions  were  carried:  (1)  that  to  pay  out  public  money  before  the  same 
was  appropriated  by  Act  of  Parliament  was  a  high  crime  and  misdemeanour ; 
(2)  that  the  Mutiny  Bill  be  postponed  till  February  23.     It  was  further 


96  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

remember  Diinning's  motion^  (in  the  year  80)  to  address  the 
Crown  against  a  dissolution  of  Parliament  ?  a  simple  address  we 
rejected,  as  an  infringement  on  the  prerogative  ;  yet  how  far  short 
of  these  strong  Demoeratical  measures,  for  which  you  have 
probably  voted,  as  I  should  probably  have  done:  such  is  the 
contagion  of  party.  Fox  drives  most  furiously,  yet  I  should  not 
be  surprized  if  Pitt's  moderation  and  character  should  insensibly 
win  the  Nation,  and  even  the  house,  to  espouse  his  cause.* 

Lenborough  is  a  melancholy  and  unpleasant  subject.  I  am 
grateful  for  your  endeavours,  and  lament  that  your  reflexions  on  the 
value  of  land  and  money  are  but  too  true  and  sensible.  Greatly 
as  I  have  been  disappointed  in  the  price,  I  should  now  be  sorry 
that  anything  should  happen  to  break  the  bargain  or  to  delay  the 
payment.  The  surmise  of  such  a  possible  event  obliged  me  to 
repeat  my  commands  that  you  would  instruct  Gosling  (in  your 
own  name)  to  accept  M.  de  Lessert's  draught  on  the  20th  of  March 
for  30,000  French  Livres  (about  £1300).  Whatever  you  may 
think  of  my  economical  measures,  the  deed  is  done,  and  my 
honour  is  now  pledged  for  the  performance.  The  other  sum, 
£1000  or  1500  of  the  Lenborough  price  which  I  wished  to  deduct 
from  the  mortgage,  is  a  more  indifferent  speculation,  which  should 
only  take  place  as  far  as  it  is  agreable  to  all  parties. 

*Unless  when  I  look  back  on  England  with  a  selfish  or  a  tender 
regard,  my  hours  roll  away  very  pleasantly,  and  I  can  again  repeat 
with  truth,  that  I  have  not  regretted  a  single  moment  the  step 
which  I  have  taken.  We  are  now  at  the  height  of  the  Winter  dis- 
sipation, and  I  am  peculiarly  happy  when  I  can  steal  away  from 
great  assemblies,  and  suppers  of  twenty  or  thirty  people,  to  a  more 
private  party,  of  some  of  those  persons  whom  I  begin  to  call  my 
friends.     Till  we  are  settled  in  our  house  little  can  be  expected  on 

resolved,  that  an  Administration,  which  commanded  the  confidence  of  the 
House,  was  peculiarly  necessary  in  the  present  situation  of  the  kingdom,  and 
that  the  late  minibterial  changes  had  been  preceded  and  accompanied  by 
reports  and  circumstances  which  alienated  the  confidence  of  the  House.  On 
January  14,  Pitt  proposed  his  India  Bill,  which  was  rejected  (January  23) 
by  222  to  214.  On  January  16  a  resolution  was  carried,  by  205  to  184,  that 
the  continuance  of  the  present  ministers  in  office  was  "  contrary  to  constitu- 
tional principles  and  injurious  to  the  interests  of  his  Majesty  and  his 
people." 

'  Dunning's  motion,  here  referred  to,  was  proposed  April  24,  1780,  and 
rejected  by  254  to  203. 


1784.]  ARRIVAL  OF   HIS   LIBRARY.  97 

our  side  ;  yet  I  have  already  given  two  or  three  handsome  dinners  ; 
and  though  everything  is  grown  dearer,  I  am  not  alarmed  at  the 
general  view  of  my  expence.  Deyverdun  salutes  you  ;  and  we  are 
agreed  that  few  married  Couples  are  better  entitled  to  the  flitch 
of  bacon  than  we  shall  be  at  the  end  of  the  year.  When  I  had 
written  about  half  this  Epistle  my  books  arrived ;  at  our  first 
meeting  all  was  rapture  and  confusion,  and  two  or  three  posts, 
from  the  2nd  to  this  day,  the  fourteenth,  have  been  suffered  to 
depart  unnoticed.  Your  letter  of  the  27th  of  January,  Avhich  was 
not  received  till  yesterday,  has  again  awakened  me,  and  I  thought 
the  surest  way  would  be  to  send  off  this  single  sheet  without  any 
farther  delay. 

I  sincerely  rejoice  in  the  stability  of  Parliament ;  ^  and  the  first 
faint  dawn  of  reconciliation,  which  must  however  be  effected  by 
the  equal  balance  of  parties,  rather  than  by  the  wisdom  of  the 
Country  Gentlemen.^* 

Miss  Firth, 

After  due  salutations  I  trouble  you  with  three  or  foui' 
Commissions,  which  I  should  not  presume  to  offer  to  the  great- 
ness of  the  Baron  or  the  delicacy  of  My  Lady,  but  which  I  am 
persuaded  you  will  chearfully  undertake  to  oblige  an  old  and 
sincere  friend.  1.  The  employment  which  I  have  already  hinted 
of  your  scissars  in  carving  and  despatching  occasional  debates 

»  On  December  22,  1783,  Mr.  Bankes,  M.P.  for  Corfe  Castle,  an  intimate  ■ 
friend  of  William  Pitt,  assured  the  House  that  the  Government  did  not  intend 
to  advise  the  king  to  dissolve  or  prorogue  Parliament,  and  tliat  the  Chancellor 
of  the  Exchequer,  if  such  advice  were  offered,  would  oppose  it,  and,  if  it  were 
accepted,  would  resign. 

^  On  January  16,  1784,  Mr.  Powys,  M.P.  for  Northamptonshire,  proposed 
a  compromise  by  a  coalition  between  the  contending  parties.  Fox,  however 
declared  that  no  compromise  was  possible  till  Pitt  had  resigned.  The  idea 
of  a  compromise  was  taken  up  on  the  20th  by  the  "  country  gentlemen." 
Stormy  scenes  took  place  on  January  23,  when  Pitt  declined  to  make  any 
statement  as  to  the  advice  which  he  might  offer  the  king.  But  on  Saturday, 
January  24,  he  stated  that,  while  refusing  to  pledge  himself  further,  the 
House  should  not  be  dissolved  till  it  had  met  on  Monday,  the  26th.  Advantage 
was  taken  of  this  statement  to  call  a  meeting,  attended  by  seventy  members 
of  the  "  country  gentlemen  "  party,  at  the  St.  Alban's  Tavern,  to  consider  the 
possibility  of  compromise  on  the  basis  of  a  "Broad  Bottom  administration." 
The  plan  proved  futile,  and  was  abandoned  February  18.  The  proceedings 
closed  with  a  dinner  given  to  the  seventy  members  at  Carlton  House  by  the 
Prince  of  Wales  on  March  10, 1784. 

VOL.  II.  H 


98  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  Il78i. 

from  Woodfall's  paper.  2.  You  are  desired  to  call  on  Elmsley  to 
ask  him  from  time  to  time  when  he  wrote  to  me  last,  and  to  urge 
him  about  taking  and  sending  a  Catalogue  of  my  library  with  all 
convenient  or  inconvenient  speed.  3.  As  many  things  will  be 
deficient  and  as  carriage  will  be  less  expensive  than  piu-chase,  I 
propose  sending  for  my  plate,  linnen,  and  China  which  now  lye 
in  Downing  Street.  My  Agent  Prendergast,  an  honest  Cabinet 
maker,  has  received  his  instructions  from  Caplen,  and  I  only 
desire  that  when  he  calls  for  that  purpose  he  may  have  free 
permission  to  examine,  pack,  export,  &c.  A  list  was  entrusted 
to  Lord  Sheffield  which  might  be  compared,  copied,  signed  by 
him  and  transmitted  by  the  post  to  me. 

My  Lady!— 

But  it  would  be  highly  incongruous  to  begin  my  letter 
at  the  bottom  of  the  page.    Adieu,  therefore,  till  next  post. 

491. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  March  2ad,  1784. 

Your  despatch  of  Feb.  13th  arrived  safe  yesterday,  March  1st, 
•and  notwithstanding  the  winter  obstacles  of  seas  and  roads  there 
lis,  upon  the  whole,  more  delay  than  danger  in  the  transactions  of 
the  posts.  I  am  glad  that  my  last  appearance  in  Downing  Street 
put  an  end  to  a  course  of  abuse  ;  but  in  spite  of  my  profound 
veneration  for  dreams  and  omens,  I  flatter  myself  that  the  silence 
of  one  month  will  not  always  be  interpreted  as  a  certain  testimony 
that  I  no  longer  exist.  Before  I  quit  the  subject  of  dispatches, 
one  word  on  Miss  Firth's  scissors  whose  operation  you  have  so 
prudently  checked.  Their  use  was  not  intended  to  be  daily  but 
occasional,  on  some  great  and  memorable  debate  in  the  Pan- 
demonium. Such  occasions  might  occur  twenty  or  thirty  times 
in  the  winter,  and  at  one  shilling  each  time  the  annual  expence 
might  have  exceeded  one  Guinea.  I  had  computed  that  such  ex- 
pence  might  be  supported  ;  but  if  you  persist  in  a  contrary  opinion, 
I  must  submit. 

You  had  given  me  notice  that  the  purchase  money  of  Len- 
borough  would  be  paid  in  February,  and  as  the  title  was  so 
perfectly  clear,  I  suppose  the  surplus  (far  beyond  the  amount  of 


1784.]      A  HAPPY   WINTER   OF   STUDY  AND  SOCIETY.  99 

the  Paris  draught)  is  already  in  Gosling's  hands,  payable  to  my 
order.  In  that  case  I  shall  have  no  obligations  to  them  for 
obeying  my  Commands.  But  as  I  was  aware  of  the  delays  of  the 
law,  and  of  their  narrow  mercantile  temper,  I  did  conceive  that 
they  might  scruple  paying  Mr.  de  Lcssert's  draught  for  30,000 
Livres  some  days  before  my  money  was  actually  in  their  shop. 
The  French  banker  will  draw  at  sight,  but  instead  of  the  20th  of 
March,  I  have  postponed  his  draught  till  the  20th  of  April.  In 
due  time  I  shall  Avrite  to  the  Goose  to  give  them  notice  not  to  ask 
a  favour.  It  is  to  you  only  that  I  wish  to  be  obliged,  and  if  you 
inform  them  that  you  consider  yourself  as  answer  for  the  money, 
I  cannot  suspect  that  even  their  grovelling  spirit  will  have  any 
scruples.  If  instead  of  your  word  they  should  require  your  bond, 
you  can  give  it  in  five  minutes,  and  a  few  days  when  the  purchase 
money  is  paid  will  release  you  from  the  obligation.  The  general 
comparison  of  the  French  and  English  funds  I  have  not  time  to 
discuss.  I  think  them  more  able,  and  ourselves  more  wilhng,  to 
support  our  national  faith,  but  if  a  man  must  trust  his  money 
to  the  Ocean,  I  think  it  more  advisable  to  embark  it  on  two 
separate  bottoms.  With  regard  to  the  scruples  of  the  two  Tabbies, 
I  can  only  say  that  first  they  need  not  know  anything  of  the 
matter,  and  secondly  they  will  be  so  good  as  to  allow  me  to  think 
and  act  for  myself. 

With  regard  to  the  purchase  of  Lee's  farm  I  am  serious, 
and  if  I  am  abused  for  my  follies  I  must  have  some  credit  for 
the  more  rational  parts  of  my  Conduct.  At  least  you  will  give 
me  credit  when  I  declare  that  in  a  happy  winter  of  study  and 
society  I  have  not  once  regretted  the  noise  of  St.  Stephen's  and 
the  tiresome  suspense  of  your  incomprehensible  politics,  but  I  do 
most  sincerely  regret  the  decreasing  value  of  my  Senatorial  com- 
modity. As  soon  as  you  can,  and  as  much  as  you  can,  is  the  advice 
which  you  will  follow  without  my  having  the  trouble  of  giving  it. 
But  in  the  meanwhile  do  not  let  us  quarrel  about  the  disposal  of 
the  Bearskin.  I  am  not  mad,  nor  do  I  mean  to  settle  here  for 
life.  A  small  part  of  the  indefinite  price  of  my  seat  was  destined 
to  embelish  my  habitation,  and  if,  after  enjoying  the  comforts 
three  or  four  years,  I  should  leave  my  friend's  house  somewhat 
improved,  I  can  see  nothing  very  extravagant  in  the  idea. 

Thus  far  I  have  written  before  the  departure  of  the  post,  and 
am  preparing  to  pass  the  evening  at  a  private  representation  of  the 


100  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1734. 

Barbier  de  Seville,  which  will  be  followed  by  a  lively  and  excellent 
supper.  Embrace  My  Lady.  I  think  of  her  often,  especially  every 
post  day.  Say  a  kind  word  to  Kitty,  I  shall  soon  dream  that  she 
is  dead  likewise. — Gosling  need  not  be  apprized  of  the  object  of 
the  Paris  draught.— The  additional  £1500  which  I  wished  to 
retain  is  superfluous,  as  I  have  already  observed  in  my  last. 

You  are  or  will  be  astonished  with  some  farther  orders  for  the 
march  of  plate,  linnen,  books,  &c.,  but  I  am  of  opinion  that  the 
present  moment  is  worth  enjoying,  and  that  carriage,  even  double 
carriage,  is  less  expensive  than  purchase. — You  have  nothing  to  do 
with  Wedgewood,  but  I  shall  soon  consult  My  lady.  The  spring 
is  delightful.  I  often  snatch  a  walk  on  Deyverdun's  terrace,  and 
visit  my  books,  which  are  already  deposited,  but  I  fear  the  house 
will  not  be  accessible  before  the  first  of  May.  He  says  I  am  not 
patient,  I  say  he  is  indolent  ;  you  know  that  the  most  harmonious 
pairs  will  sometime  squabble. 

492. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  April  31st,  1784. 

Not  a  post  has  elapsed  without  my  thinking  of  Sheffelina 
and  intending  her  separate  letter.  This  day  which  had  been 
peremptorily  fixed  is  now  so  far  advanced  that  I  have  barely 
time  to  relieve  my  mind  from  some  anxious  English  thoughts, 
the  only  ones  that  disturb  the  tranquil,  chearful  scenes  of  my 
well-judged  retreat. — I  have  this  moment  perused  the  last  English 
papers  of  the  20th  instant,  which  contain  by  the  bye  your  smart 
and  as  it  seems  successful  dispute  with  the  Minister. 

Your  adversaries  (I  fear  they  are  the  King,  Lords  and  People) 
have  now  conquered,  but  at  this  distance  I  cannot  discern  the 
consequences  of  their  victory,  whether  it  will  lead  to  treaty  or  dis- 
solution.^    If  the  latter,  adieu  once  more  to  my  poor  seat  and  all 

'  An  address  to  his  Majesty  was  presented  on  February  25,  1784,  asking 
the  king  to  take  measures  for  the  formation  of  such  an  united  administration 
as  the  House  of  Commons  had  declared  to  be  necessary.  The  king  replied 
(February  27)  that  he  did  not  think  the  dismissal  of  his  present  ministers 
■would  promote  such  union.  A  second  address,  asking  the  removal  of  the 
present  ministers,  was  carried  (March  l)by  a  majority  of  twelve,  and  presented 
March  4.    The  king's  answer  was  practically  a  repetition  of  his  former  reply. 


1784.]  DISSOLUTION   OF  PARLIAMENT.  101 

my  little  hopes  of  compensation.  Can  nothing,  nothing  be  done 
in  any  way  by  direct  or  indirect,  by  humble  or  strenuous  measures  ? 
Upon  my  soul,  I  should  consider  my  election  dinner,  £100,  or  200 
pounds  as  a  tolerable  conclusion  of  my  cursed  political  life.  But  in 
this  business  perhaps  you  can  do  nothing.  I  therefore  turn  to 
another,  which  would  seriously  alarm  me,  had  I  less  confidence  in 
your  friendship.  You  know  (and  the  Goslings  are  apprized)  that 
on  the  20th  of  April  M.  de  Lessert  of  Paris  will  draw  upon 
them  for  30,300  French  Livres,  and  I  should  feel  the  deepest 
shame  and  affliction  if  his  draught  in  my  name  should  meet  with 
an  unfavourable  reception.  I  am  in  your  hands,  and  can  say  no 
more.  Perhaps  I  have  been  too  hasty,  yet  you  cannot  forget 
that  I  might  reasonably  act  on  your  assurance  of  the  Lenborough 
purchase  money  being  paid  before  the  end  of  February.  Since 
that  notice  you  have  never  said  a  word  on  the  subject.  Is 
the  business  concluded  ?  what  occasions  a  delay  ?  Have  any 
difficulties  arisen  ?  Adieu.  You  grow  an  idle  correspondent. 
The  winter  has  been  long  but  not  extremely  rigorous. — The 
person  who  occupies  Deyverdun's  house  is  an  invalid ;  yet  I 
think  we  shall  migrate  before  my  birthday,  the  8th  of  May. 

E.  G. 

493. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  May  11th,  1784. 

*Alas !  alas !  alas !  We  may  now  exchange  our  mutual 
condolence,  and  encourage  each  other  to  support  with  becoming 
fortitude  the  stroke  of  fate.  Last  Christmas,  on  the  change  of 
administration,  I  was  struck  with  the  thunderbolt  of  the 
unexpected  event,  and  in  the  approaching  dissolution  I  foresaw 
the  loss  of  *  the  little  but  precious  stock  which  I  had  so  foolishly 
embarked  in  the  parUamentary  bottom.  *The  long  continuance 
and  various  changes  of  the  tempest  rendered  me  by  degrees 
callous  and  insensible :  when  the  art  of  the  Mariners  was 
exhausted,  I  felt  that  we  were  sinking ;  I  expected  the  ship  to 

A  representation  on  the  affairs  of  the  nation,  addressed  to  the  liing,  was 
carried  by  191  to  190  on  March  8,  and,  with  this  last  effort,  the  opposition 
subsided.  The  Mutiny  Bill  passed  without  a  division  on  March  10,  and  on 
March  25  Parliament  was  dissolved. 


102  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

founder ;  and  when  the  fatal  moment  arrived,  I  was  even  pleased 
to  be  delivered  from  hope  and  fear,  to  the  calmness  of  despair. 

I  now  turn  my  eyes,  not  on  the  past,  but  on  the  present  and 
the  future ;  what  is  lost  I  try  to  consider  as  if  it  never  had  existed  ; 
and  every  day  I  congratulate  my  own  good  fortune,  let  me  say 
my  prudence  and  resolution,  in  migrating  from  your  noisy  stage 
to  a  scene  of  repose  and  content.  But  even  in  this  separate 
state,  I  was  still  anxious  for  my  friend  upon  English  Earth, 
and  at  first  was  much  delighted  with  your  hint,  that  you  were 
setting  off  for  Coventry,  without  any  prospect  of  an  opposition. 
Every  post,  Wednesdays  and  Saturdays,  I  eagerly  looked  for  the 
intelligence  of  your  victory ;  and  in  spite  of  my  misbehaviour, 
which  I  do  not  deny,  I  must  abuse  My  Ladij^  rather  than  you, 
for  leaving  me  in  so  painful  a  situation.  Each  day  raised  and 
increased  my  apprehension  ;  the  Courier  de  I'Europe  first 
announced  the  contest,  the  English  papers  proclaimed  your 
defeat,  and  your  last  letter,  which  I  received  four  days  ago, 
showed  me  that  you  exerted  first  the  spirit,  and  at  last  the  temper, 
of  a  hero.  Lord  B[eauchamp]  behaved  as  I  should  have  expected, 
and  I  am  not  much  surprized  that  you  should  have  been  swept 
away  in  the  general  unpopularity,  since  even  in  this  quiet  place, 
your  friends  are  considered  as  a  factious  crew,  acting  in  direct 
opposition  both  to  the  King  and  People.^ 

For  yourself  I  am  at  a  loss  what  to  say.  If  this  repulse 
should  teach  you  to  renounce  all  connexion  with  Kings  and 
Ministers,  and  patriots,  and  parties,  and  parliaments  ;  for  all 
of  which  you  are  by  many  degrees  too  honest ;  I  should  exclaim, 
with  Teague,"  your  respectable  countryman,  "  By  my  Shoul, 
Dear  Joy,  you  have  gained  a  loss."  Private  life,  whether 
contemplative  or  active,  has  surely  more  sohd  and  independent 
charms ;  you  have  some  domestic  comforts ;  Sheffield  is  still 
susceptible  of  useful  and  ornamental  improvements,  (alas  !  how 
much  better  might  even  the  last  £1500  have  been  laid  out !) 
and  if  these  cares  are  not  sufiicient  to  occupy  your  leisure,  I  can 

'  Upwards  of  one  hundred  and  sixty  members  lost  their  seats,  and  of 
these  almost  all  had  supported  the  Coalition  of  Fox  and  North.  Among 
"  Fox's  Martyrs "  was  Lord  Sheffield.  Sir  Sampson  Gideon,  afterwards 
Lord  Eardlcy,  and  Mr.  John  Wilmot  were  elected  for  Coventry,  the  seat 
previously  held  hy  Lord  Sheffield  and  Mr.  Conway. 

"^  Teague  is  the  Irish  servant  of  Hermes  Wouldbe  in  Farquhar's  play  of 
The  Twin  Bivals. 


1784.]  A  FREE-SPOKEN  COUNSELLOR.  103 

» 
trust  your  restless  and  enterprizing  spirit  to  find  new  methods 

of  preserving  yourself  from  the  insipidity  of  repose.     But  I  much 

fear  your  discontent  and  regret  at  being  excluded  from  that 

Pandemonium  which  we  have  so  often  cursed,  as  long  as  you 

were  obliged  to  attend  it.     The  leaders  of  the  party  will  flatter 

you  with  the  opinion  of  their  friendship  and  your  own  importance  ; 

the  warmth  of  your  temper  makes  you  credulous  and  unsuspicious  ; 

and,  like  the  rest  of  our  species,  male  and  female,  you  are  not 

absolutely  blind  to  your  own  merit,  or  deaf  to  the  voice  of  praise. 

Some  place  will  be  suggested,  easy,  honourable,  certain,  where 

nothing  is  wanted  but  a  man  of  character  and  spirit  to  head 

a  superior  interest ;  the  opposition,  if  any,  is  contemptible,  and 

the  expence  cannot  be  large.    You  will  go  down,  find  almost 

every  circumstance  falsely  stated,  repent  that  you  had  engaged 

yourself,  but  you  cannot  desert  those  friends  who  are  firmly 

attached  to  your  cause ;   besides,  the  Money  you  have  already 

spent  would  have  been  thrown  away ;    another  thousand  will 

compleat  the  business :  deeper  and  deeper  will  you  plunge,  and 

the  last  evil  will  be  worse  than  the  first. 

You  see  I  am  a  free-spoken  Counsellor  ;  may  I  not  be  a  true 
prophet !  Did  I  consult  my  own  wishes,  I  should  observe  to  you, 
that  as  you  are  no  longer  a  Slave,  you  might  soon  be  transported, 
as  you  seem  to  desire,  to  one  of  the  Alpine  hills.  The  purity  and 
calmness  of  the  air  is  the  best  calculated  to  allay  the  heat  of 
a  political  feaver ;  the  education  of  the  two  princesses  might  be 
successfully  conducted  under  your  eye  and  that  of  my  Lady  ;  and 
if  you  had  resolution  to  determine  on  a  residence,  not  a  visit,  at 
Lausanne,  your  worldly  affairs  might  repose  themselves  after  their 
late  fatigues.  But  you  know  that  /  am  a  friend  to  toleration, 
and  am  always  disposed  to  make  the  largest  allowance  for  the 
different  natures  of  animals ;  a  lion  and  a  lamb,  an  eagle  and 
a  Worm.  I  am  afraid  we  are  too  quiet  for  you ;  here  it  would 
not  be  easy  for  you  to  create  any  business ;  you  have  for  some 
time  neglected  books,  and  I  doubt  whether  you  would  not  think 
our  suppers  and  assemblies  somewhat  trifling  and  insipid. 

For  myself  I  am  happy  to  tell,  and  you  will  be  happy  to  hear, 
that  this  place  has  in  every  respect  exceeded  my  best  and  most 
sanguine  hopes.  How  often  have  you  said,  as  often  as  I  expressed 
any  ill-humour  against  the  hurry,  the  expence,  and  the  precarious 
condition  of  my  London  life,  "  Ay,  that  is  a  nonsensical  scheme 


101  GIBBON'S  COKRESPONDEXCE.  [1784. 

of  retiring  to  Lausanne  that  you  have  got  into  your  head — a 
pretty  fancy ;  you  remember  how  much  you  liked  it  in  your 
youth,  but  you  have  now  seen  more  of  the  World,  and  if  you 
were  to  try  it  again,  you  would  find  yourself  most  woefully 
disappointed "  ?  I  had  it  in  my  head,  in  my  heart ;  I  have 
tryed  it ;  I  have  not  been  disappointed ;  and  my  knowledge  of 
the  World  has  only  served  to  convince  me,  that  a  Capital  and 
a  Crowd  may  contain  much  less  real  society,  than  the  small  circle 
of  this  gentle  retirement.  The  winter  has  been  longer,  but,  as 
far  as  I  can  learn,  less  rigorous  than  in  the  rest  of  Europe.  The 
spring  in  all  its  glory  is  now  bursting  upon  us,  and  in  our  garden 
it  is  displayed  in  all  its  glory.  I  already  occupy  a  temporary 
apartment,  and  we  live  in  the  lower  part  of  the  house ;  before 
you  receive  this  our  lodgers  will  be  gone  and  we  shall  be  in  full 
possession.  We  have  much  to  enjoy  and  something  to  do,  which 
I  take  to  be  the  happiest  condition  of  human  life. 

Now  for  business,  the  kind  of  subject  which  I  always  undertake 
with  the  most  reluctance,  and  leave  with  the  most  pleasure.*  I  do 
not  thank  you  for  standing  between  me  and  Gosling,  you  would 
despise  my  thanks.  I  know  your  sentiments,  and  you  are  not 
ignorant  of  mine.  But  the  step  on  your  side  was  necessary  : 
even  with  your  security  Gosling  has  not  done  the  thing  in  a 
graceful  way,  and  even  the  letter  Avhich  informs  me  that  he  will 
honour  M.  de  Lessert's  draught  is  written  with  unuecessaiy 
pertness.  In  a  post  or  two  I  shall  probably  hear  the  payment 
acknowledged  from  Paris.  The  Goose  hopes  he  shall  soon  be 
reimbursed  :  so  do  I  hkewise,  and  as  no  difficulties  can  arise  with 
regard  to  the  title,  I  should  imagine  that  before  you  leave  town 
the  business,  that  is  the  payment,  may  be  finally  concluded. 

Of  the  persons  who  already  cast  a  Hawk's  eye  on  the  poor 
surplus.  There  is  one  Harris  whose  bond,  since  he  calls  for  it,  must 
undoubtedly  be  discharged,  though  I  should  be  glad  if  you  could 
persuade  him  to  be  contented  with  the  interest,  and  trust  me 
some  time  longer  with  the  principal.  I  write  to  Whitehead,  the 
hirer  of  horses,  by  this  post,  and  suppose  you  will  hear  no  more 
of  him.  But  I  must  confess  that  Eichard  Way's  demand  of 
one  hundred  Guineas  fills  me  with  surprize  and  indignation, 
and,  unless  you  are  decidedly  of  a  contrary  opinion,  I  do  most 
absolutely  refuse  it.  Had  he  only  been  useless  something  might 
be  pleaded ;  but  if  you  recollect  that  his  entire  service  was  the 


1784.]  ENGLISH  FRIENDS  AT   LAUSANNE.  105 

recommending  me  to  Lovcgrove,  it  would  not  be  easy  to 
compute  the  damages  (for  thousands)  for  which  I  might  equitably 
sue  that  Land  Jobber.  Though  I  am  not  very  favourably 
disposed  to  the  Goslings,  the  surplus  money,  when  the  just 
demands  are  cleared,  must  be  left  in  their  hands,  till  I  can 
employ  it,  but  I  am  serious  in  my  hint  about  Lee's  farm,  and 
wish  you  would  correspond  with  Hugonin  in  the  summer ;  by 
the  bye,  he  has  not  pressed  my  tenants  this  winter.  A  Swiss 
Carrier  by  name  Pache  will  call  in  a  few  days  to  send  away  the 
boxes  of  plate,  linnen,  china,  which  are  probably  packed  for 
foreign  service.  The  ornamental  China  was  never  intended  to 
be  sent. 

Postscript. 

I  cannot  as  yet  hear  anything  of  a  certain  box  left  at  my 
departure  in  Downing-place,  and  repeatedly  and  vainly  demanded  ; 
by  this  time  I  hope  that  it  is  on  the  road.  Elmsley,  to  whom 
it  was  peculiarly  committed,  is  an  ingenious,  an  honest,  but  a 
very  idle  fellow.  The  box  contains  some  absolute  necessaries, 
such  as  paper  in  particular,  and  you  are  a  sufferer  by  the  delay, 
as  you  will  pay  a  double  letter  for  the  value,  or  at  least  the  size, 
of  a  single  one.  The  stationer's  paper  here  is  so  extremely  thin 
that  I  turned  over  two  leaves  at  once,  and  the  error  is  now 
irreparable.    Adieu. 

*And  now.  My  Lady. 

Let  me  approach  your  gentle,  not  grimalkin,  presence,  with 
deep  remorse.  You  have  indirectly  been  informed  of  my  state 
of  mind  and  body  ;  (the  whole  winter  I  have  not  had  the  slightest 
return  of  the  Gout,  or  any  other  complaint  whatsoever ;)  you 
have  been  apprized,  and  are  now  apprized,  of  my  motions,  or 
rather  of  my  perfect  and  agreeable  repose ;  yet  I  must  confess 
(and  I  feel)  that  something  of  a  direct  and  personal  exchange 
of  sentiment  has  been  neglected  on  my  side,  though  I  still 
persuade  myself  that  when  I  am  settled  in  my  new  house  I  shall 
have  more  subject,  as  well  as  leisure  to  write.  Such  tricks  of 
lazyness  your  active  spirit  is  a  stranger  to,  though  Mrs.  Frazer 
complains  that  she  has  never  had  an  answer  to  her  last  letters.* 
That  aforesaid  little  Donna  Catharina  arrived  here  three  or  four 
days  with  her  sister  Miss  Bristow  :  the  widow  is  impatient  to 
reach  England  :  the  maiden,  who  is  much  better,  proposes  staying 
here  the  whole  summer  with  her  dear  Doctor  Tissot,  and  returning 


106  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

on  the  approach  of  "Winter  to  pass  another  season  at  Nice.  *Poor 
Lady  Pembroke  !  ^  you  will  feel  for  her  ;  after  a  cruel  alternative 
of  hope  and  fear,  her  only  daughter,  Lady  Charlotte,  died  at  Aix 
at  Provence ;  they  have  persuaded  her  to  come  to  this  place, 
where  she  is  intimately  connected  with  the  Cerjat  family.  She 
has  taken  an  agreeable  house,  about  three  miles  from  the  town, 
and  lives  retired.  But  I  have  seen  her ;  her  behaviour  is  calm, 
but  her  affliction 

I  accept  with  gratitude  your  friendly  proposal  of  Wedge- 
wood's  ware,  and  should  be  glad  to  have  it  bought  and  packed, 
and  sent  without  delay  through  Germany.*  To  you  I  leave 
the  absolute  and  sole  command,  but  if  you  have  a  mind  to 
consult  the  Baron  with  regard  to  the  ornamental,  the  creature 
is  not  totally  devoid  of  taste  :  the  number,  choice,  pattern,  sizes, 
&c.  you  will  determine,  and  *I  shall  only  say,  that  I  wish  to  have 
a  very  compleat  service  for  two  courses  and  a  desert,  and  that 
our  suppers  are  numerous,  frequently  fifteen  or  twenty  persons. 
Adieu.  I  do  not  mean  this  as  your  letter.  You  are  very  good 
to  poor  Kitty.     "With  you  I  do  not  condole  about  Coventry.* 

May  11th,  1784.    I  Avrote  the  first  page  of  my  letter  last  week. 

494. 

To  Ills  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  May  28tl),  1784. 

Dear  Madam, 

■"I  begin  without  preface  or  Apology,  as  if  I  had  received 
your  letter  by  the  last  post.  In  my  own  defence  I  know  not 
what  to  say  ;  but  if  I  were  disposed  to  recriminate,  I  might 
observe  that  you  yourself  are  not  perfectly  free  from  the  sin  of 
laziness  and  procrastination.  I  have  often  wondered  why  we  are 
not  fonder  of  letter-writing  :  we  all  delight  to  talk  of  ourselves, 
and  it  is  only  in  letters,  in  writing  to  a  friend,  that  we  can  enjoy 
that  conversation,  not  only  without  reproach  or  interruption, 
but  with  the  highest  propriety  and  mutual  satisfaction ;  sure 
that  the  person  whom  we  address  feels  an  equal,  or  at  least  a 
strong  and  lively  interest  in  the  consideration  of  the  pleasing 
subject.    On  the  subject  therefore  of  selfl  will  entertain  a  friend, 

*  Lady  Charlotte  Herbert,  daughter  of  Lady  Pembroke  (formerly  Lady 
Elizabeth  Spencer),  was  bom  July,  1773,  and  died  in  April,  1784. 


1784.]  THE  REIGN  OP  SINECURES  AT  AN  END.  107 

to  whom  none  of  my  thoughts  or  actions,  none  of  my  pains  or 
pleasures  can  ever  be  indifferent. 

When  I  first  cherished  the  design  of  retiring  to  Lausanne, 
the  loss  I  can  hardly  call  it  of  your  society,  but  at  least  of 
your  neighbourhood,  and  the  fear  of  your  anxiety  and  dis- 
approbation have  always  stood  before  me  as  the  most  powerful 
objections,  and  I  was  much  more  apprehensive  of  wounding  your 
tender  attachment,  than  of  oifending  Lord  Sheffield's  manly 
and  vehement  friendship.  In  the  abolition  of  the  board  of 
trade,  the  motives  for  my  retreat  became  more  urgent  and 
forcible ;  I  wished  to  break  loose,  yet  I  delayed  above  a  year 
before  I  could  take  my  final  resolution  ;  and  the  letter  in  which 
I  disclosed  it  to  you  cost  me  one  of  the  most  painful  struggles 
of  my  life.  As  soon  as  I  had  conquered  that  difficulty,  all 
meaner  obstacles  fell  before  me,  and  in  a  few  Aveeks  I  found 
myself  at  Lausanne,  astonished  at  my  firmness  and  my  success. 

Perhaps  you  still  blame  or  still  lament  the  step  which  I  have 
taken.  If  on  your  own  account,  I  can  only  sympathize  with  your 
feeUngs,  the  recollection  of  which  often  costs  me  a  sigh ;  If  on 
mine,  let  me  fairly  state  what  I  have  escaped  in  England,  and 
what  I  have  found  at  Lausanne.  Recollect  the  tempests  of  this 
winter,  how  many  anxious  days  I  should  have  passed,  how  many 
noisy,  turbulent,  hot,  unwholesome  nights,  while  my  political 
existence,  and  that  of  my  friends,  was  at  stake  ;  yet  these  feeble 
efforts  would  have  been  unavailing ;  I  should  have  lost  my  seat 
in  Parliament,  and  after  the  extraordinary  expence  of  another 
Year,  I  must  still  have  pursued  the  road  of  Switzerland,  unless 
I  had  been  tempted  by  some  selfish  Patron,  or  by  Lord  S.*s 
aspiring  spirit,  to  purchase  at  a  most  inconvenient  price  a  new 
seat ;  and  once  more,  at  the  beginning  of  an  opposition,  to 
engage  in  new  scenes  of  business.  As  to  the  immediate  prospect 
of  any  thing  like  a  quiet  and  profitable  retreat,  I  should  not  know 
where  to  look  ;  my  friends  are  no  longer  in  power.  With  "PitL* 
and  his  party  I  have  no  connection ;  and  were  he  disposed  to 
favour  a  Man  of  letters,  it  is  difficult  to  say  what  he  could  give, 
or  what  I  would  accept.  The  reign  of  pensions  and  sinecures 
is  at  an  end,  and  a  commission  in  the  Excise  or  customs,  the 
summet  of  my  hopes,  would  give  me  bread  at  the  expence 
of  leisure  and  liberty.  When  I  revolve  these  circumstances 
in   my  mind,  my  only  regret,  I  repeat  it  again  and  again,  is, 


108  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1784. 

that  I  did  not  embrace  this  salutary  measure  three,  five,  ten 
years  ago. 

Thus  much  I  thought  it  necessary  to  say,  and  shall  now  dismiss 
this  unpleasing  part  of  the  subject.  For  my  situation  here, 
health  is  the  first  consideration,  and  on  that  head  your  tenderness 
had  conceived  some  degree  of  anxiety.  I  know  not  whether  it 
has  reached  you  that  I  had  a  fit  of  the  Gout  the  day  after 
my  arrival.  The  deed  is  tme,  but  the  cause  was  accidental ; 
carelessly  stepping  down  a  flight  of  stairs,  I  sprained  my  ancle ; 
and  my  ungenerous  enemy  instantly  took  advantage  of  my 
weakness.  But  since  my  breaking  that  double  chain,  I  have 
enjoyed  a  winter  of  the  most  perfect  health  that  I  have  perhaps 
ever  known,  without  any  mixture  of  the  little  flying  incommodities 
which  in  my  best  days  have  sometimes  distui-bed  the  tranquillity 
of  my  English  life.  You  are  not  ignorant  of  Dr.  Tissot's  reputa- 
tion, and  his  merit  is  even  above  his  reputation.  He  assures  me, 
that  in  his  opinion,  the  moisture  of  England  and  Holland  is 
most  pernicious,  the  dry  pure  air  of  Switzerland  most  favourable, 
to  a  Gouty  constitution  :  that  experience  justifies  the  Theory ; 
and  that  there  are  fewer  martyrs  of  that  disorder  in  this,  than 
in  any  other  country  in  Europe. 

This  winter  has  every  where  been  most  uncommonly  severe  ; 
and  you  seem  in  England  to  have  had  your  full  share  of  the 
general  hardship  :  but  in  this  corner,  surrounded  by  the  Alps, 
it  has  rather  been  long  than  rigorous  ;  and  its  duration  stole 
away  our  spring,  and  left  us  no  interval  between  furs  and 
silks.  "We  now  enjoy  the  genial  influence  of  the  Climate  and 
the  Season  ;  and  no  station  was  ever  more  calculated  to  enjoy 
them  than  Deyverdun's  house  and  garden,  which  are  now 
become  my  own.  You  will  not  expect  that  the  pen  should 
.describe,  what  the  pencil  would  imperfectly  delineate.  A  few 
circumstances  may,  however,  be  mentioned.  My  library  is 
about  the  same  size  with  that  in  Bentinck  Street,  with  this 
difference,  however,  that  instead  of  looking  on  a  paved  court 
twelve  feet  square,  I  command  a  boundless  prospect  of  vale, 
mountain,  and  water,  from  my  three  windows ;  my  apartment 
is  compleated  by  a  spacious  light  closet,  or  store-room,  with 
a  bed-chamber  and  dressing-room.  Deyverdun's  habitation  is 
pleasant  and  convenient,  though  less  extensive  :  for  our  common 
use  we  have  a  very  handsome  winter  apartment  of  four  rooms  ; 


s 


S5 
<! 

CO 

& 
■< 

h3 

H* 
O 

K 
W 
H 

a 

55 
•<! 

is 
o 


< 

Ph 

a 


1784.]  HIS   HOUSE,   TERRACE,   AND   GARDEN.  109 

and  on  the  ground-floor,  two  cool  saloons  for  the  summer,  with 
a  sufficiency,  or  rather  superfluity,  of  offices,  &c.  A  Terrace,  one 
hundred  yards  long,  extends  beyond  the  front  of  the  House,  and 
leads  to  a  close  impenetrable  shrubbery ;  and  from  thence  the 
circuit  of  a  long  and  various  walk,  carries  me  round  a  meadow 
and  vineyard.  The  intervals  afford  abundant  supply  of  fruit, 
and  every  sort  of  vegetables ;  and  if  you  add,  that  this  villa 
(which  has  been  much  ornamented  by  my  friend)  touches  the 
best  and  most  sociable  part  of  the  town,  you  will  agree  with  me, 
that  few  persons,  either  princes  or  philosophers,  enjoy  a  more 
desirable  residence. 

Deyverdun,  who  is  proud  of  his  own  works,  often  walks 
me  round,  pointing  out,  with  knowledge  and  enthusiasm,  the 
beauties  that  change  with  every  step  and  with  every  variation 
of  light.  I  share,  or  at  least  I  sympathize,  with  his  pleasure  : 
he  appears  content  with  my  progress,  and  has  already  told 
several  people,  that  he  does  not  despair  of  making  me  a 
Gardener.  Be  that  as  it  may,  you  will  be  glad  to  hear  that 
I  am,  by  my  own  choice,  infinitely  more  in  motion,  and  in  the 
open  air,  than  I  ever  have  been  formerly.  Yet  my  perfect  liberty 
and  leisure  leave  me  many  studious  hours ;  and  as  the  circle  of 
our  acquaintance  retire  into  the  Country,  I  shall  be  much  less 
engaged  in  company  and  diversion.  I  have  seriously  resumed 
the  prosecution  of  my  history ;  each  day  and  each  month  adds 
something  to  the  completion  of  the  great  work.  The  progress 
is  slow,  the  labour  continual,  and  the  end  remote  and  uncertain. 
Yet  every  day  brings  its  amusement,  as  well  as  labour ;  and 
though  I  dare  not  fix  a  term,  even  in  my  own  fancy,  I  advance, 
with  the  pleasing  reflection,  that  the  business  of  publication 
(should  I  be  detained  here  so  long)  must  enforce  my  return  to 
England,  and  restore  me  to  the  best  of  mothers  and  friends. 

With  health  and  competence,  with  a  full  independence  of  mind 
and  action,  a  deUghtful  habitation,  a  true  friend,  and  many 
pleasant  acquaintance,  you  will  allow,  in  the  meanwhile,  that 
I  am  rather  an  object  of  envy  than  pity  ;  and  if  you  were  more 
conversant  with  the  use  of  the  French  language,  I  would  seriously 
propose  to  you  to  repose  yourself  with  us  in  this  fine  country. 
But  my  indirect  intelligence  (on  which  I  sometimes  depend  with 
more  implicit  faith  than  on  the  kind  dissimulation  of  your  friend- 
ship) gives  me  reason  to  hope  that  the  last  winter  has  been  more 


110  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

favourable  to  your  health  than  the  preceding  one.  Assure  me 
of  it  yourself  honestly  and  truly,  and  you  will  afford  rae  one 
of  the  most  lively  pleasures*  that  I  am  capable  of  receiving. 
Write  soon,  and  indeed  I  will  not  be  so  tardy  in  my  answer. 
Caplin  presents  his  duty  to  you.  You  will  be  sorry  to  hear  that 
he  seems  tolerably  satisfied,  and  talks  French  (when  I  am  not 
present)  like  a  magpye.  The  English  who  have  passed  the  Winter 
at  Nice,  Lady  Pembroke,  &c.,  are  flocking  here.  I  am  civil 
without  living  among  them,  but  you  will  rejoyce  to  hear  that 
Mr.  and  Madame  Necker  pass  the  summer  in  our  neighbourhood. 
I  must  request  a  short  delay  in  your  Midsummer  draught  as  I 
am  ignorant  whether  some  money  is  paid  in,  but  it  need  not 
exceed  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks.    Adieu. 


495. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  June  19tb,  1784. 

The  Goslings  cannot  do  a  handsome  thing  with  a  tolerable 
gi-ace.  They  have  accepted  and  paid  Lessert's  draught,  but 
instead  of  taking  your  word  or  note  or  bond,  for  the  entire  sum 
as  a  separate  loan,  they  have  eked  it  out  by  squeezing  to  the  last 
drop  of  between  £300  and  400  of  my  cash  in  their  hands  without 
leaving  me  a  shilling  to  supply  the  necessary  and  current  demands. 
Alas,  poor  Lymington  !  !  By  this  post  I  write  to  them,  as  well 
as  to  the  Barrels,  and  one  way  or  another  I  must  create  some 
temporary  credit  till  the  business  of  Lenborough  is  settled.  When 
in  the  Devil's  name  (for  to  him  most  rightfully  belong  all  money 
transactions)  will  it  be  concluded  ?  Originally  the  purchase-money 
was  to  be  paid  in  February,  we  are  now  in  the  middle  of  June. 
You  have  never  suggested  any  impediments  ;  even  in  your  last 
jou  say  it  is  in  a  fair  way,  yet  surely  four  or  five  extraordinary 
months  exceed  even  the  common  forms  and  delays  of  lawyers, 
auctioneers,  and  all  that  unfeeling  race  of  men.  I  cannot  suspect 
your  friendship  or  diligence,  yet  possibly  the  Coventry  election 
and  your  more  early  retreat  to  Sheffield  may  have  thrown  you  a 
little  out  of  the  road  :  but  I  trust  that  you  will  soon  recover  your 
lost  ground  (if  any)  and  finish  the  race  with  speed  and  success. 
You  are  sensible  that  it  will  deliver  me  from  the  remnant  of  my 


1781.J  HIS  IIOSriTALITIES.  Ill 

Worldly  anxieties.  If  the  purchaser  is  an  honest  and  responsible 
man,  might  he  not  be  persuaded  to  advance  £500  on  the  purchase- 
money  ;  no  uncommon  favour,  and  which  now  would  be  most 
singularly  acceptable.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  he  shuffles  through 
weakness  of  mind  or  purse,  I  could  support  (in  my  present  regular 
economy)  the  idea  of  reserving  the  Estate  till  more  prosperous 
times,  and  of  finding  some  real  or  personal  security  for  the  money 
which  the  Goslings  have  advanced. 

*In  this  glorious  season  I  frequently  give  tea  and  supper 
to  a  dozen  men  and  women  with  ease  and  reputation,  and 
heartily  wish  you  and  My  Lady  were  among  them.  In  this 
corner  of  Europe  we  enjoy,  or  shall  speedily  enjoy,  (besides 
threescore  English,  with  Lady  Pembroke,  and  forty  French, 
with  the  Duchess  de  Sivrac  at  their  head),  M.  et  Madame 
Xecker,  the  Abbe  Raynal,  the  Hereditary  prince  of  Brunswick, 
Prince  Henry  of  Prussia,^  perhaps  the  Duke  of  Cumberland  ;  yet 
I  am  still  more  content  with  the  humble  natives,  than  with  most 
of  these  illustrious  names.  Adieu.  The  post  is  on  the  wing,  and 
you  owe  me  a  long  Epistle.  I  am,  as  usual,  in  the  firm  intention 
of  writing  next  week  to  my  lady.*  I  hear  from  Ostend  of  the 
landing  of  four  boxes :  but  I  know  not  whether  the  Wedgewood  is 
among  them.     If  not,  I  hope  it  will  soon  follow.    Adieu. 

Could  you  not  write  to  Gosling  to  release  my  poor  Cash,  and  to 
take  the  whole  of  Lessert's  sum  on  yourself  ? 

496. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  October  IStli,  1784. 

*Since  my  retreat  to  Lausanne  our  Correspondence  has  never 
received  so  long  an  interruption ;  and  as  I  have  been  equally 
taciturn  with  the  rest  of  the  English  World,  it  may  now  be  a 
problem  among  that  sceptical  nation,  whether  the  historian  of  the 
decline  and  fall  be  a  living  substance  or  an  empty  name.     So 

'  Prince  Henry  of  Prussia,  brother  of  Frederick  the  Great,  was  one  of  the 
most  brilliant  soldiers  of  the  day.  His  relief  of  Brcslau  (1760)  and  victory 
at  Freyberg  (1762)  were  turning-points  iu  the  Seven  Years'  War.  In  the  War 
of  Bavarian  Succession  he  maintained  his  position  in  Bohemia  against  the 
Austrian  troops  (1778-9).  He  was  offered  the  crown  of  Poland  in  1764,  and 
in  1784  had  been  envoy  at  the  court  of  Louis  XVI.    He  died  in  1802. 


112  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

tremendous  is  the  sleepy  power  of  laziness  and  habit,  that  the 
silence  of  each  post  operated  still  more  strongly  to  benumb  the 
hand,  and  to  freeze  the  Epistolary  ink.  How  or  when  I  should 
have  naturally  awakened,  I  cannot  tell ;  but  the  pressure  of  my 
affairs,  and  the  arrival  of  your  last  letter,  compell  me  to  remember 
that  you  are  entrusted  with  the  final  amputation  of  the  best  limb 
of  my  property.  The  subject  is  in  itself  so  painful,  that  I  have 
postponed  it,  like  a  child's  physic,  from  day  to  day ;  and  losing 
whole  mornings,  as  I  walked  about  my  library,  in  useless  regret 
and  impotent  resolution.  You  will  be  amazed  to  hear  that  (after 
peeping  to  see  that  you  were  well,  and  returned  from  Ireland)  I 
have  not  yet  had  the  courage  to  peruse  your  letter,  for  fear  of 
meeting  with  some  gloomy  intelligence  ;  and  I  will  now  finish 
Avhat  I  have  to  say  of  pecuniary  matters,  before  I  know  whether 
its  contents  will  fortify  or  overthrow  my  unbyassed  sentiments.* 

About  three  weeks  ago  I  received  the  conveyance  of  Len- 
bourough,  and  immediatly  executed  the  deeds  in  the  presence  of 
the  Hon"®  and  Reverend  Edward  Conway,  and  Mr.  Jones  of  Ireland, 
a  nephew  of  Lord  Tyrone.  A  coach  was  setting  off,  and  the 
writings  properly  packed  were  directed  to  Mr.  Elmsley,  and  in  the 
inner  Cover  to  L^  Sheffield  to  be  left  till  called  for :  before  this 
time  they  should  be  safe  in  London  ;  the  purchaser  is  said  to  be 
impatient.  I  am  so  likewise,  and  nothing  (I  should  apprehend) 
can  prevent  you  from  delivering  the  land  and  receiving  the 
Money.  The  miserable  state  of  the  funds  must  excuse  the  low- 
ness  of  the  price,  and  annihilate  any  probable  benefit  of  a  short 
delay :  but  when  I  look  back  (a  foolish  retrospect !)  to  our 
moderate  expectation  of  £20,000  and  calculate  the  interest,  money, 
costs,  vexations,  &c.,  of  eleven  Years,  I  cannot  look  upon  myself 
as  a  very  successful  man.  Consider  that  since  my  departure  I 
have  fairly  or  foully  lost  at  least  £2000  on  which  I  might  depend 
with  the  most  rational  confidence,  £1000  on  the  abatement  of  the 
Lenborough  price,  and  £1000  by  the  dissolution  of  Parliament. 
*To  what  purpose  (you  will  say)  are  these  tardy  and  useless  re- 
pinings  ?  To  arraign  your  manager  ?  No,  I  am  satisfied  with 
the  skill  and  firmness  of  the  pilot,  and  only  complain  of  the 
untoward  violence  of  the  tempest.  To  repent  of  your  retreat  into 
Switzerland  ?  No,  surely,  every  subsequent  event  has  tended  to 
make  it  as  necessary  as  it  has  proved  agreeable.  Why  then  these 
lamentations  ?     Hear  and  attend. 


1784]  HIS  PECUNIARY  AFFAIRS.  113 

It  is  to  interest  (if  possible  more  strongly)  your  zeal  and 
friendsliij),  to  justify  a  sort  of  avarice,  of  a  love  of  money, 
very  foreign  to  my  character,  but  with  which  I  cling  to  these 
last  fragments  of  my  fortune.*  According  to  the  terms  of  the 
conveyance,  £12,000  are  destined  for  the  Goslings  and  £3500  for 
me,  in  all  £15,500 :  yet  I  am  almost  sure  that  you  mentioned 
£15,650  as  the  entire  price.  Of  this  remainder,  Gosling  will 
instantly  seize  his  reimbursement  of  the  Paris  sum,  £;300  bond 
and,  as  I  fear,  some  small  arrears  of  interest.  Besides  this 
Harris's  heirs  have  made  a  just  claim  ;  Way's  damned  hundred 
Guineas  I  cannot  digest,  and  a  long  unknown  bill  of  Newton 
rises  to  my  imagination  in  all  its  horrors.  Of  tradesmen's  debts  I 
have  left  none  behind  me  except  about  300  pounds  for  the  hire  of 
horses  to  Whitehead  and  the  purchase  of  books  to  Elmsley,  When 
all  these  demands  are  summed  and  discharged,  I  tremble  at  the 
balance,  and  indeed  1  have  found  through  life  that  I  had  always 
more  to  pay,  and  less  to  receive,  than  I  expected.  *As  far  as  I  can 
judge  from  the  experience  of  a  year,  though  I  find  Lausanne  much 
more  expensive  than  I  imagined,  yet  my  style  of  living  (and  a 
very  handsome  style  it  is)  will  be  brought  nearly  within  my 
ordinary  revenues.  I  w-ish  our  poor  Country  could  say  as  much  ! 
But  it  was  always  my  favourite  and  rational  wish,  that  at  the 
winding  up  of  my  affairs  I  might  possess  a  sum  from  one  to  two 
thousand  pounds,  neither  buried  in  land,  nor  locked  up  in  the 
funds,  but  free,  light,  and  ready  to  obey  any  call  of  interest,  or 
pleasure,  or  virtue  ;  to  defray  any  extraordinary  expence,  support 
any  delay,  or  remove  any  obstacle.  For  the  attainment  of  this 
object,  I  trust  in  your  assistance.* 

First,  I  must  desire  you  to  call  in  the  bills  (particularly  New- 
ton's) to  cast  up  the  amount  of  all  the  deductions  on  the 
£3500,  and  to  send  me  the  list,  but  to  pay  as  little  of  it  as  you 
possibly  can  (except  the  Goslings),  till  you  have  heard  again 
from  me.  I  am  sensible  however  that  the  residue  can  scarcely 
by  any  contrivance  be  brought  even  to  the  smallest  of  the 
above-mentioned  sums  (£1000),  and  here  your  friendship  must 
again  interpose  to  engage  the  Goslings  to  supply  that  deficiency 
on  our  Joint-bond.  The  money  (I  could  wish  it  were  £1500 
in  all)  I  should  probably  vest  in  India  bonds,  and  the  difference 
of  ^  or  of  1  per  Cent,  would  be  no  formidable  tax.  At  the 
end  of  three  or  four  years   I   should  be  sure   of  replacing  the 

VOL.  II.  I 


114  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

principal  from  the  profits  of  my  history,  without  indulging  any 
fanciful  expectations  from  Aunt  Hester,  who  complains  a  little 
of  your  silence.  *Thus  much  of  this  money  transaction  ;  to  you 
I  need  add  no  other  stimulative,  than  to  say  that  my  ease  and 
comfort  very  much  depend  on  the  success  of  this  plan.* 

I  have  now  opened  your  letter ;  send  them  to  the  Devil  if  they 
talk  of  their  moneys  lying  dead.  Have  /  not  been  saddled  with 
the  interest  of  my  mortgage  ?  From  whom  has  the  delay  pro- 
ceeded ?  did  they  not  insist  on  sending  the  deeds  to  Lausanne  ? 
Have  /  not  returned  them  with  uncommon  diligence  ?  Since 
Hugonin  will  not  write  to  me  himself,  I  must  press  and  conjure 
him  through  you  to  get  the  rents  paid  on  or  before  the  Isfc 
of  December.  I  know  not  what  may  be  this  College  business,  but 
am  glad  to  hear  no  more  of  the  scruples  of  the  Chief  tenant. 
Cannot  Hug.  pick  me  up  some  odd  money  from  Wooddyer  ? 

On  folding  my  Epistle,  it  turned  out  so  minute  that  a  cover 
became  decent,  and  you  will  expect  a  few  Hnes  for  your  additional 
postage.  First  of  me.  I  cannot  esteem  myself  totally  foolish 
when  I  reflect  on  the  success  of  a  scheme  executed  in  opposition 
to  the  wisest  of  my  friends.  I  have  now  given  this  place  a  year's 
tryal,  and  find  that  the  climate  agrees  with  my  health,  (I  have 
not  had  a  single  return  of  the  gout)  and  the  people,  their  manners, 
their  way  of  life,  are  suited  to  my  Genius  :  some  rubs  will  inter- 
vene, and  even  in  my  domestic  life  neither  Deyverdun  nor  myself 
are  Angels,  but  on  the  whole,  I  shall  number  this  among,  or 
rather  above,  the  Happiest  of  my  years,  and  nothing  but  your 
salutary  hand  to  clear  and  establish  my  pecuniary  concerns  is 
now  wanting. 

*As  I  thought  every  man  of  sense  and  fortune  in  Ireland  must 
be  satisfied,  I  did  not  conceive  the  cloud  so  dark  as  you  represent 
it.*  If  the  growth  of  the  Papists  could  awaken  the  fears  and 
prejudices  of  the  Protestants,  it  might  be  lucky,  and  the  discovery 
of  French  gold  would  do  more  good  than  mischief.  *I  will 
seriously  peruse  the  8°,  and  in  due  time  the  4°  Edition ;  it 
would  become  a  Classic  book,  if  you  could  find  leisure  (will  you 
ever  find  it  ?)  to  introduce  some  kind  of  order  and  ornament. 
You  must  negotiate  directly  with  Deyverdun ;  but  the  State 
will  not  hear  of  parting  with  their  only  Reynolds.^  I  embrace 
My  Lady  ;  let  her  be  angry,  provided  she  be  well.  Adieu.  Yoars. 
'  His  picture  by  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds. 


1784.]  A  LIST  OF   HIS  ACQUAINTANCES.  115 

P.S.  The  saving  Ireland^  may  have  amused  you  in  the  Summer  ; 
but  how  do  you  mean  to  employ  the  Winter  ?  Do  you  not  cast  a 
longing,  lingering  look  at  St.  Stephen's  Chappel  ?  With  your 
fiery  spirit,  and  firm  judgment,  I  almost  wish  you  there  ;  not  for 
your  benefit,  but  for  the  public.  If  you  resolve  to  recover  your 
seat,*  pay  a  specific  sum  for  a  certain  election, — rather  than  *listeu 
to  any  fallacious  and  infinite  projects  of  interest,  contest,  return, 
petition,  &c.    Dixi.* 

497. 
To  Lady  SJipffieU. 

Lausanne,  October  22nd,  1784. 

*A  few  weeks  ago,  as  I  was  walking  on  our  Terrace  with  Mr. 
Tissot,  the  celebrated  Physician,  Mr.  Mercier,  the  author  of  the 
Tableau  de  Paris  ;  the  Abbe  Eaynal,  Mr.,  Madame,  and  Made- 
moiselle Necker,^  the  Abbe  de  Bourbon,  a  natural  son  of  Lewis 
the  fifteenth,  the  hereditary  prince  of  Brunswick,  Prince  Henry 
of  Prussia,  and  a  dozen  Counts,  Barons,  and  extraordinary  persons^, 
among  whom  was  a  natural  son  of  the  Empress  of  Russia 

Are  you  satisfied  with  this  list .''  which  I  could  enlarge  and 
embellish,  without  departing  from  truth  ;  and  was  not  the  Baron 
of  Sheffield  (profound  as  he  is  on  the  subject  of  the  American 

*  The  Constitution  of  1782  had  not  satisfied  Ireland.  The  cry  was  raised 
for  parliamentary  reform,  and  for  the  extension  of  the  franchise  to  Roman 
Catholics.  Napper  Tandy  and  his  friends  held  meetings  with  French 
emissaries ;  and  an  attempt  was  made  to  convene  a  Congress  of  three  hundred 
representatives  at  Dublin  in  October,  1784,  backed  by  the  volunteers.  The 
Lord  Lieutenant,  the  Duke  of  Rutland,  acted  with  vigour,  and  the  pro- 
posed Congress  collapsed.  Lord  Sheffield  had  taken  part  in  the  proceedings 
against  the  magistrates  of  Roscommon  and  Leitrim,  who  had  called  the 
meetings  of  representatives  and  signed  the  resolutions  in  favour  of  par- 
liamentary reform  during  the  summer  of  1784. 

*  Jacques  Nccker  (1734-1804),  appointed  Director-General  of  Finance  in 
1777,  published,  in  1781,  his  Compte  Rendu.  In  the  same  year  be  was 
compelled  to  resign  his  office.  In  1784  he  published  his  Administration  des 
Finances.  He  was  recalled  to  office  as  Director  of  Finances  in  August,  1788, 
was  dismissed  July  11,  1789,  recalled  July  16  in  the  same  year,  and  finally 
retired  in  September,  1790.  "M.  Necker  est  parti.  II  a  eu  une  si  belle 
peur  de  la  menace  d'etre  pendu,  qu'il  n'a  pu  register  k  la  tendresse  de  sa 
vertueuse  e'pouse  qui  le  pressoit  d'aller  aus  eaux."  Madame  Elisabeth  a. 
Madame  de  Bombelles,  Sept.  6,  1790  (Feuillet  de  Conches,  vol.  i.  p.  348). 
Necker's  work,  8ur  V Administration  de  M.  Necker,  par  lui-meme,  was  published 
in  1791.    His  daughter  mentioned  here  was  afterwards  Madame  de  Stael. 


116  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDEXCE.  [1781. 

trade)  doubly  mistaken  with  regard  to  Gibbon  and  Lausanne  ? 
"Whenever  I  used  to  hint  my  design  of  retiring,  that  illustrious 
Baron,  after  a  proper  effusion  of  damned  fools,  condescended  to 
observe,  that  such  an  obscure  nook  in  Switzerland  might  please 
me  in  the  ignorance  of  youth,  but  that  after  tasting  for  so  many 
years  the  various  society  of  Paris  and  London,  I  should  soon  be 
tired  with  the  dull  and  uniform  round  of  a  provincial  town.  In 
the  winter,  Lausanne  is  indeed  reduced  to  its  native  powers  ;  but 
during  the  summer,  it  is  possibly,  after  Spa,  one  of  the  most 
favourite  places  of  general  resort.  The  voyage  of  Switzerland, 
the  Alps,  and  the  Glaciers,  is  become  a  fashion  ;  Tissot  attracts 
the  Invalids,  especially  from  France  ;  and  a  Colony  of  English 
have  taken  up  the  habit  of  spending  their  winters  at  Nice,  and 
their  summers  in  the  Pays  de  Yaud.  Such  are  the  splendour  and 
variety  of  our  summer  Visitors  ;  and  you  will  agree  with  me  more 
readily  than  the  Baron,  when  I  say  that  this  variety,  instead  of 
being  a  merit,  is,  in  my  opinion,  one  of  the  very  few  objections 
to  the  residence  of  Lausanne.  After  the  dissipation  of  the  winter, 
I  expected  to  have  enjoyed,  with  more  freedom  and  solitude, 
myself,  my  friend,  my  books,  and  this  delicious  paradise ;  but 
my  position  and  character  make  me  here  a  sort  of  a  public 
character,  and  oblige  me  to  see  and  be  seen.  However,  it  is  my 
firm  resolution  for  next  summer  to  assume  the  independence  of  a 
Philosopher,  and  to  be  visible  only  to  the  persons  whom  I  like. 

On  that  principle  I  should  not,  most  assuredly,  have  avoided 
the  Neckers  and  Prince  Henry.  The  former  have  purchased  the 
Barony  of  Copet  near  Geneva  ;  and  as  the  buildings  were  very 
much  out  of  repair,  they  passed  this  summer  at  a  country-house 
at  the  gates  of  Lausanne.  They  afford  a  new  example,  that 
persons  who  have  tasted  of  greatness,  can  seldom  return  with 
pleasure  to  a  private  station.  In  the  moments  when  we  were 
alone  he  conversed  with  me  freely,  and  I  believe  truly,  on  the 
subject  of  his  administration  and  fall  ;  and  has  opened  several 
passages  of  modern  history,  which  would  make  a  very  good  figure 
in  the  American  book.  If  they  spent  the  summers  at  the  Castle 
of  Copet,  about  nine  leagues  from  hence,  a  fortnight's  or  three 
weeks'  visit  would  be  a  pleasant  and  healthful  excursion ;  but, 
alas  !  I  fear  there  is  little  appearance  of  its  being  executed.  Her 
health  is  impaired  by  the  agitation  of  her  mind  :  instead  of  re- 
turning to  Paris,  she  is  ordered  to  pass  the  winter  in  the  southern 


1784.]    MDLLE.NECKER  AND  PRINCE  HENRY  OF  TRUSSIA.   117 

provinces  of  France,  and  our  last  parting  was  solemn  ;  as  I  very 
much  doubt  whether  I  shall  ever  see  her  again.  They  have  now 
a  very  troublesome  charge,  which  you  will  experience  in  a  few 
years — the  disposal  of  a  Baroness.  Mademoiselle  Necker,  one  of 
the  greatest  heiresses  in  Europe,  is  now  about  eighteen — wild, 
vain,  but  good-natured,  and  with  a  much  larger  provision  of  wit 
than  beauty  ;  what  encreases  their  difficulties  is  their  Religious 
obstinacy  of  marrying  her  only  to  a  Protestant.  It  would  be  an 
excellent  opportunity  for  a  young  Englishman  of  a  great  name 
and  a  fair  reputation.  Prince  Henry  must  be  a  man  of  sense  ; 
for  he  took  more  notice,  and  expressed  more  esteem  for  me,  than 
any  body  else.  He  is  certainly  (without  touching  his  military 
character)  a  very  lively  and  entertaining  companion.  He  talked 
with  freedom,  and  generally  with  contempt,  of  most  of  the  princes 
of  Europe ;  with  respect  of  the  Empress  of  Russia ;  but  never 
mentioned  the  name  of  his  brother,  except  once,  when  he  hinted 
that  it  was  he  himself  thskt  won  the  battle  of  Rosbach. 

His  nephew,  and  our  nephew,  the  hereditary  prince  of  Brunswick, 
is  here  for  his  education,  a  soft  and  heavy  piece  of  German  dough. 
Of  the  English,  who  have  lived  very  much  as  a  national  colony, 
you  will  hke  to  hear  of  Mrs.  Eraser  and  one  more.  Donna 
Catherina  pleases  every  body  by  the  perfect  simplicity  of  her 
state  of  Nature,  and  I  am  glad  to  see  that  her  giddyness  is 
often  checked  by  a  sad  remembrance  of  the  General.  You  know 
she  has  had  resolution  to  return  from  England  (where  she  told 
me  she  saw  you)  to  Lausanne,  for  the  sake  of  Miss  Brisfcow,  who 
is  in  a  very  bad  way,  and  in  a  few  days  they  set  off  for  Nice. 
The  other  is  the  EHza  ;  she  passed  through  Lausanne,  in  her  road 
from  Italy  to  England  ;  poorly  in  health,  but  still  adorable,  (nay, 
do  not  frown  !)  and  I  enjoyed  some  delightful  hours  by  her  bed- 
side. She  wrote  me  a  line  from  Paris,  but  has  not  executed  her 
promise  of  visiting  Lausanne  in  the  month  of  October. 

My  pen  has  run  much  faster,  and  much  farther,  than  I  intended 
on  the  subject  of  others  ;  yet,  in  describing  them,  I  have  thrown 
some  light  over  myself  and  my  situation.  A  Year,  a  very  short 
one,  has  now  elapsed  since  my  arrival  at  Lausanne  ;  and  after  a 
cool  review  of  my  sentiments,  I  can  sincerely  declare,  that  I  have 
never,  during  a  single  moment,  repented  of  having  executed  my 
absurd  project  of  retiring  to  Lausanne.  It  is  needless  to  dwell 
on  the  fatigue,  the  hurry,  the  vexation  which  I  must  have  felt  in 


118  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

the  narrow  and  dirty  circle  of  English  Politics.  My  present  life 
wants  no  foil,  and  shines  by  its  own  native  light.  The  chosen 
part  of  my  library  is  now  arrived,  and  arranged  in  a  room  full  as 
good  as  that  in  Bentinck  Street,  with  this  difference  indeed,  that 
instead  of  looking  on  a  stone  Court,  twelve  feet  square,  I  com- 
mand, from  three  windows  of  plate  glass,  an  unbounded  prospect 
of  many  a  league  of  vineyard,  of  fields,  of  wood,  of  lake,  and  of 
mountains  ;  a  scene  which  Lord  S.  will  tell  you  is  superior  to  all 
you  can  imagine.  The  climate,  though  severe  in  Winter,  has 
perfectly  agreed  with  my  constitution  ;  and  the  year  is  accom- 
plished without  any  return  of  the  gout.  An  excellent  house,  a 
good  table,  a  pleasant  garden,  are  no  contemptible  ingredients 
in  human  happiness.  The  general  style  of  society  hits  my  fancy ; 
I  have  cultivated  a  large  and  agreeable  circle  of  acquaintance, 
and  am  much  deceived  if  I  have  not  laid  the  foundations  of  two 
or  three  more  intimate  and  valuable  connections ;  but  their 
names  would  be  indifferent,  and  it  would  require  pages,  or  rather 
volumes,  to  describe  their  persons  and  characters. 

With  regard  to  my  standing  dish,  my  domestic  friend,  I 
could  not  be  much  disappointed,  after  an  intimacy  of  eight 
and  twenty  years.  His  heart  and  his  head  are  excellent ;  he  has 
the  warmest  attachment  for  me,  he  is  satisfied  that  I  have  the 
same  for  him :  some  slight  imperfections  must  be  mutually 
supported ;  two  batchelors,  who  have  lived  so  long  alone  and 
independent,  have  their  peculiar  fancies  and  humours,  and  when 
the  mask  of  form  and  ceremony  is  laid  aside,  every  moment  in 
a  family  life  has  not  the  sweetness  of  the  honey  moon,  even 
between  the  husbands  and  wives  who  have  the  truest  and  most 
tender  regard  for  each  other. 

Should  you  be  very  much  surprized  to  hear  of  my  being  married? 
Amazing  as  it  may  seem,  I  do  assure  you  that  the  event  is  less 
improbable  than  it  would  have  appeared  to  myself  a  twelfth- 
month  ago.  Deyverdun  and  I  have  often  agreed,  in  jest  and  in 
earnest,  that  a  house  like  ours  would  be  regulated,  and  graced, 
and  enlivened,  by  an  agreeable  female  Companion  ;  but  each  of 
us  seems  desirous  that  his  friend  should  sacrifice  himself  for  the 
pubhc  good.  Since  my  residence  here  I  have  lived  much  in 
women's  company  ;  and,  to  your  credit  be  it  spoken,  I  like  you 
better  the  more  I  see  of  you.  Not  that  I  am  in  love  with  any 
particular  person.     I  have  discovered  about  half  a  dozen  Wives 


1784.]  TPIE  LOSS  OF  HIS  VALET.  119 

who  would  please  me  in  different  ways,  and  by  various  merits  : 
one  as  a  Mistress  (a  Widow,  vastly  like  the  Eliza  :  if  she  returns 
I  am  to  bring  them  together)  ;  a  second,  a  lively  entertaining 
acquaintance  ;  a  third,  a  sincere  good-natured  friend ;  a  fourth, 
who  would  represent  with  grace  and  dignity  at  the  head  of  my 
table  and  family  ;  a  fifth,  an  excellent  economist  and  housekeeper  ; 
and  a  sixth,  a  very  useful  nurse.  Could  I  find  all  these  qualities 
united  in  a  single  person,  I  should  dare  to  make  my  addresses, 
and  should  deserve  to  be  refused.* 

In  the  meanwhile  I  have  experienced  a  separation  from  a  more 
humble  companion  with  whom  I  expected  to  pass  the  remainder 
of  my  life  :  in  a  few  days  Caplin  departs  for  England.  He  had 
long  complained  of  his  health,  and  though  he  made  some  progress 
in  French,  he  could  not  reconcile  himself  to  the  people  and  country, 
and  his  personal  attachment  to  me  was  less  forcible  than  gratitude 
perhaps  would  have  required.  As  he  has  saved  some  money  in 
my  service  he  proposes  to  set  up  in  London  in  the  Upholstery 
business,  and  will  be  a  very  useful  correspondent,  as  he  has  been 
a  very  able  assistant  here  in  my  first  arrangements.  I  shall  advise 
him  to  go  down  to  Shefiield,  and  you  may  question  him  about  a 
thousand  little  particulars.  It  is  an  heavy  loss,  yet  I  have  the 
good  luck  to  procure  in  his  place  a  Yalet  de  Chambre,  a  man  of 
substance  and  reputation  of  this  Country,  but  who  has  lived  some 
years  at  Paris :  he  has  passed  three  months  in  the  school  of  Caplin, 
and  as  I  am  assured  of  his  honesty  and  diligence  I  have  very  good 
hopes  of  his  address  and  intelligence. 

*You  hint  in  some  of  your  letters,  or  rather  postscripts,  that 
you  consider  me  as  having  renounced  England,  and  having  fixed 
myself  for  the  rest  of  my  life  in  Switzerland,  and  that  you  suspect 
the  sincerity  of  any  vague  or  insidious  schemes  of  purchase  or 
return.  To  remove,  as  far  as  I  can,  your  doubts  and  suspicions, 
I  will  tell  you,  on  that  interesting  subject,  fairly  and  simply  as  much 
as  I  know  of  my  own  intentions.  There  is  little  appearance  that  I 
shall  be  suddenly  recalled  by  offer  of  a  place  or  pension.  I  have 
no  claim  to  the  friendship  of  your  young  Minister,  and  should  he 
propose  a  Commissioner  of  the  Customs,  or  Secretary  at  Paris,  the 
former  objects  of  my  low  ambition,  Adam  in  Paradise  would  refuse 
them  with  contempt.  Here  therefore  I  shall  certainly  live  till  I 
have  finished  the  remainder  of  my  history  ;  an  arduous  work, 
which  does  not  proceed  so  fast  as  I  expected  amidst  the  avocations 


120  GIBBON'S  CORRESPOXDENCE.  [1784. 

of  Society,  and  miscellaneous  Study.    As  soon  as  it  is  compleated, 
most  probably  in  three  or  four  years,  I  shall  infallibly  return  to 
England,  about  the  month  of  May  or  June  ;  and  the  necessary 
labour  of  printing  with  care  two  or  three  quarto  Volumes,  will 
detain  me  till  their  publication,  in  the  ensuing  Spring.    Lord 
Sheffield  and  yourself  will  be  the  loadstone  that  most  forcibly 
attracts  me ;  and  as  I  shall  be  a  vagabond  on  the  face  of  the 
earth,  I  shall  be  the  better  qualified  to  domesticate  myself  with 
you,  both  in  town  and  country.     Here,  then,  at  no  very  extrava- 
gant distance,  we  have  the  certainty  (if  we  live)  of  spending  a 
year  together,  in  the  peace  and  freedom  of  a  friendly  interest ; 
and  a  year  is  no  very  contemptible  portion  of  this  mortal  existence^ 
Beyond  that  period  (I  mean  of  the  year,  not  of  the  existence, 
though  it  be  true  enough  of  that  likewise)  all  is  dark,  but  not 
gloomy.    Whether,  after  the  final  completion  of  my  history,  I 
shall  return  to  Lausanne,  or  settle  in  England,  must  depend  on  a 
thousand  events  which  lye  beyond  the  reach  of  human  foresight,, 
the  state  of  public  and  private  affairs,  my  own  health,  the  health 
and  hfe  of  Deyverdun,  the  fate  of  two  elderly  Ladies,  the  various, 
changes  which  may  have  rendered  Lausanne  more  dear,  or  less, 
agreeable,  to  me  than  at  present.    But  without  losing  ourselves 
in  this  distant  futurity,  which  perhaps  we  may  never  see,  and 
without  giving  any  positive  answer  to  Maria's  parting  question, 
whether  I  should  be  buried  in  England  or  Switzerland,  let  me 
seriously  and  earnestly  ask  you,  whether  you  do  not  mean  to  visit 
me  next  summer  ?    The  defeat  at  Coventry  would,  I  should  think^ 
facilitate  the  project ;  since  the  Baron  is  no  longer  detained  the 
whole  winter  from  his  domestic  affairs,  nor  is  there  any  attend- 
ance on  the  house  that  keeps  him  till  Midsummer  in  dust  and 
dispute.     I  can  send  you  a  pleasant  route,  through  Normandy, 
Paris,  and  Lyons,  a  vLsit  to  the  Glaciers,  and  your  return  down 
the  Rhine,  which  would  be  commodiously  executed  in  three  or 
four  months,  at  no  very  extravagant  expence,  and  would  be 
productive  of  health  and  spirits  to  you,  of  entertainment  to  you 
both,  and  of  instruction  to  the  Baronessa.     Without  the  smallest 
inconvenience  to  myself,  I  am  able  to  lodge  Yourselves  and  family,, 
by  arranging  you  in  the  winter  apartment,  which  in  the  summer 
season  is  not  of  any  use  to  us.     I  think  you  will  be  satisfied  with 
your  habitation,  and  already  see  you  in  your  dressing-room ;  a 
small  but  pleasant  room,  with  a  delightful  prospect  to  the  West 


1784.]  HIS  INVITATION   TO  THE  SHEFFIELDS.  121 

and  South.  If  poor  Aunt  Kitty  (you  oblige  me  beyond  expres- 
sion by  your  tender  care  of  that  excellent  Woman)  if  she  were 
only  ten  years  younger,  I  would  desire  you  to  take  her  with  you, 
but  I  much  fear  we  shall  never  meet  again. 

You  will  not  complain  of  the  brevity  of  this  Epistle  ;  I  expect, 
in  return,  a  full  and  fair  account  of  yourself,  your  thoughts  and 
actions,  soul  and  body,  present  and  future,  in  the  safe,  though 
unreserved,  confidence  of  friendship.  The  Baron  in  two  words 
hinted  but  an  indifferent  account  of  your  health ;  you  are  a  fine 
machine  ;  but  as  he  was  absent  in  Ireland,  I  hope  I  understand 
the  cause  and  the  remedy.  Next  to  yourself,  I  want  to  hear  of 
the  two  Baronesses.  You  must  give  me  a  faithful  picture  (and 
though  a  mother  you  can  give  it)  of  their  present  external  and 
internal  forms ;  for  a  year  has  now  elapsed,  and  in  their  lives  a  year 
is  an  age.*  Has  the  gentle  Louisa  (though  you  had  discovered 
some  marks  of  fire)  expanded  as  much  as  you  could  expect  in  know- 
ledge and  understanding  ?  I  see  Maria  an  accomplished  and  elegant 
young  Woman,  and  only  wish  to  know  whether  you  have  smoothed 
away  some  of  the  asperities  of  that  fine  diamond.     Adieu. 

Remember  me  to  Miss  Firth  :  My  Wedgewood's  China.  But 
Caplin  will  put  everything  in  motion. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

I  hear  from  Mrs.  Frazer  but  an  indifferent  account  of  Mrs. 
Holroyd  of  Bath.  I  want  to  have  a  cool  and  faithful  state  of 
Mrs.  G.,  her  health  and  spirits  :  our  correspondence  is  languid, 
but  indeed  it  is  rather  her  fault  than  mine. 

498. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  October  27th,  1784. 

My  Dear  Madam, 

If  ever  the  excuse  of  procrastination  be  allowable  it  is 
when  we  ourselves  are  expecting  a  letter  to  which  we  are  entitled 
in  the  due  course  of  correspondence.  Not  that  among  friends 
the  cold  ideas  of  form  and  duty  of  debt  and  payment  can  find 
any  admittance  ;  but  that  every  post  that  approaches  and  flyes 
away,  seems  to  mark  and  postpone  the  natural  opportunity  of 


122  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1784. 

writing  by  alternately  raising  and  disappointing  our  hopes.  I 
am  not  indeed  either  surprized  or  angry  at  your  long  silence  ;  the 
correspondence  of  distant  friends  will  inevitably  languish  without 
any  diminution  of  their  mutual  affection :  their  sentiments  are 
still  the  same  but  their  ideas  become  different  ;  they  no  longer 
think  or  read  or  converse  or  act  in  the  same  sphere,  and  the 
object  of  their  intercourse  will  be  at  last  reduced  to  the  reciprocal 
desire  of  being  informed  of  each  other's  health  and  happiness. 
Could  we  persuade  ourselves  to  convey  that  information  every 
week  or  month  in  a  billet  of  four  lines,  each  friend  would  be 
satisfied :  but  the  distance  seems  to  require  a  longer  Epistle,  and 
the  obligation  of  writing  a  great  deal  prevents  us  from  writing 
at  all,  and  leaves  our  friend  in  the  doubt  (which  I  now  most 
anxiously  feel)  whether  that  silence  be  not  occasioned  by  the 
want  of  health  or  spirits. 

It  is  more  particularly  in  a  situation  like  ours  that  we  are  not 
prompted  to  write  by  the  agitation  and  variety  of  the  scenes  which 
surround  us.  Nothing  can  be  more  uniform  and  tranquil  than 
your  Bath  Life,  except  it  be  that  which  I  lead  at  Lausanne.  A 
regular  alternative  of  Study  and  society  carries  away  the  hours 
and  days  in  a  smooth  and  pleasant  Revolution,  and  I  have 
scarcely  commenced  a  month  before  I  am  astonished  to  find  myself 
at  the  end  of  it — a  sure  indication  of  a  quiet  and  domestic  state  of 
happiness.  I  am  well  satisfied  with  my  union  with  a  known  and 
tryed  friend,  though  (such  are  the  infirmities  of  human  nature) 
all  our  moments  cannot  partake  of  the  Honey-moon.  Among 
the  people  of  the  Country  I  have  found  some,  I  have  formed 
many  more  Connections  ;  their  manners,  their  conversation,  their 
style  of  living  are  perfectly  adapted  to  my  taste,  and  the  same- 
ness of  the  company  is  relieved  in  the  Summer  by  a  concourse  of 
strangers  whom  health  or  curiosity  or  fashion  invite  to  consult 
Tissot  or  to  visit  the  Alps. 

As  a  kind  of  public  character,  a  live  Author,  I  am  a  little  too 
much  exposed  to  visits  and  compliments,  but  I  was  much  delighted 
with  the  unexpected  meeting  of  the  Neckers.  Tired  of  greatness 
and  ambition  (a  pohte  phrase  for  a  disgraced  minister),  they 
purchased  an  estate  in  Switzerland,  and  while  the  Castle  was 
repairing  they  passed  the  summer  in  a  country-house  near  Lausanne. 
Their  society  might  diversify  my  life  with  occasional  excursions  ; 
but,  alas  !    her  health  is  very  much  affected,  and  I  think  it 


178/5.]  A  TEMPERATE  DIET  AND  EASY  MIND.  123 

extremely  doubtful  whether  she  will  be  able  to  revisit  this  country 
again.  Of  myself  I  can  give  you  a  much  more  pleasing  account, 
nor  do  I  remember  a  year  in  which  I  have  enjoyed  a  more  perfect 
state  of  health  ;  the  air  though  sharp  is  pure  ;  it  may  be  dangerous 
for  weak  lungs,  but  is  excellently  suited  to  a  gouty  constitution, 
and  during  the  whole  twelfth  month  I  have  never  once  been 
attacked  by  my  old  Enemy.  Of  Dr.  Oadogan's  three  rules,  I 
can  observe  two,  a  temperate  diet  and  a  easy  mind.  I  am  not 
agitated  by  the  hopes  and  fears,  and  regrets  of  my  London  life, 
and  whatever  cares  still  pursue  and  overtake  me  are  blown  over 
by  an  English  wind.  I  am  afraid  you  sometimes  sigh  over  me 
as  an  Exile.  If  I  were  fixed  as  a  foreign  Minister  at  Naples,  or 
Petersburgh,  you  would  be  reconciled  to  my  situation,  yet  such  a 
splendid  situation  would  be  corroded  by  many  a  secret  anxiety, 
and  content  is  surely  preferable  to  greatness.  Adieu,  My  Dear 
Madam  ;  give  me  a  satisfactory  line,  and  ever  believe  me. 

Yours, 
E.  G. 

499. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  March  13th,  1785. 

*My  long  silence  (and  it  has  been  long)  must  not,  on  this 
occasion,  be  imputed  to  lazyness,  though  that  little  Devil  may 
likewise  have  been  busy.  But  you  cannot  forget  how  many 
weeks  I  remained  in  suspence,  expecting  every  post  the  final 
sentence,  and  not  knowing  what  to  say  in  that  passive  uncertainty. 
It  is  now  something  more  than  a  fortnight  since  your  last  letter, 
and  that  of  Gosling  informed  me  of  the  event.  I  have  intended 
every  day  to  write,  and  every  day  I  have  started  back  with  reluc- 
tance and  disgust,  from  the  consideration  of  the  wretched  subject. 
Lenborough  irrecoverably  gone,  for  three-fourths  of  its  real,  at 
least  of  its  ancient,  Value  ;  my  seat  in  ParUament  (for  the 
subject  now  presses  home  upon  me)  sunk  without  the  smallest 
equivalent  in  the  abyss  of  your  cursed  politics,  and  a  balance 
neatly  cyphered  and  summed  by  Gosling,  which  shews  me  a  very 
shallow  pm'se,  in  which  others  have  a  clearer  right  to  dip  than 
myself. 


124  GIBBON'S  COERESPONDENCE.  [1785. 


March  21  at. 

Another  week  has  now  elapsed,  and  though  nothing  is  changed 
in  this  too  faithful  state  of  my  affairs,  I  feel  myself  able  to 
encounter  them  with  more  spirit  and  resolution  ;  to  look  on  the 
future,  rather  than  the  past ;  on  the  fair,  rather  than  on  the  foul 
side  of  the  prospect.  I  shall  speak  in  the  confidence  of  friend- 
ship, and  while  you  listen  to  the  more  doleful  tale  of  my  wants 
and  wishes,  You  will  have  the  satisfaction  of  hearing  some 
circumstances  in  my  present  situation  of  a  less  unpleasing  nature. 

1.  In  the  first  place,  I  most  heartily  rejoyce  in  the  sale,  how- 
ever unfavourable,  of  the  Bucks  Estate.  Considering  the  dullness 
of  the  times,  and  the  high  interest  of  money,  it  is  not  a  little  to 
obtain  even  a  tolerable  price,  and  I  am  sensible  how  much  your 
patience  and  industry  have  been  exercised  to  extort  the  payment* 
from  a  knavish  or  obstinate  purchaser.  Without  supposing  a 
shilling  of  balance  in  Gosling's  hands,  my  circumstances  are  im- 
proved by  the  sale  to  the  annual  amount  of  £150  ;  of  £50  which  I 
was  obliged  to  add  for  the  interest  of  the  mortgage,  of  £100  which 
I  received  from  my  French  annuity. 

*2.  Your  resistance  to  my  Swiss  expedition  was  more  friendly 
than  wise.  Had  I  yielded,  after  eighteen  months  of  suspense  and 
anxiety,  I  should  now,  a  still  poorer  man,  be  driven  to  embrace  the 
same  resource,  which  has  succeeded  according  to,  or  even  beyond, 
my  most  sanguine  expectation.  I  do  not  pretend  to  have  dis- 
covered the  teiTcstrial  paradise,  which  has  not  been  known  in  this 
World  since  the  fall  of  Adam  ;  but  I  can  truly  declare,  (now  the 
charms  of  novelty  are  long  since  faded,)  that  I  have  found  the  plan 
of  life  the  best  adapted  to  my  temper  and  my  situation.  I  am  now 
writing  to  you  in  a  room  as  good  as  that  in  Bentinck  Street,  with 
three  large  windows  of  plate  glass  which  command  the  country,  the 
lake,  and  the  mountains,  and  the  opening  prospect  of  the  spring. 
The  aforesaid  room  is  furnished  without  magnificence,  but  with 
every  conveniency  for  warmth,  ease,  and  study,  and  the  walls  are 
already  covered  with  more  than  two  thousand  volumes,  the  choice 
of  a  chosen  library.  I  have  health,  friends,  an  amusing  society, 
and  perfect  freedom.  (A  Commissioner  of  the  Excise  !  the  idea 
makes  me  sick).*  Even  in  Trifles,  though  it  is  not  a  Trifle,  I  have 
been  singularly  lucky,  and  you  will  conceive  an  high  opinion  of 
Blondel,  my  new  Valet   de   Chambre,  when   I  assure  you  that, 


1785.]  HIS  ESTABLISHMENT  AT  LAUSANNE.  125 

except  in  the  knowledj^c  of  books  and  the  Upholstery  business,  I 
no  longer  regret  Caplen.  He  probably  related  all  the  minute 
circumstances  of  my  state,  and  I  find,  that  without  any  prejudice 
for  the  Country  and  people,  he  has  not  represented  thera  in  an 
unfavourable  light.  *If  you  ask  me  what  I  have  saved  by  my 
retreat  to  Lausanne,  I  will  fairly  tell  you  (in  the  two  great 
articles  of  a  Carriage  and  a  house  in  town,  and  breathing  place 
at  Hampton  Court,  both  which  were  indispensable,  and  are  now 
annihilated,  with  the  difference  of  Clubs,  public  places,  servants' 
wages,  &c.)  about  four  hundred  pounds,  or  Guineas,  a  year ;  no 
inconsiderable  sum,  when  it  must  be  annually  found  as  addi- 
tion to  an  expence  which  is  somewhat  larger  than  my  present 
revenue. 

3.  "  What  is  then,"  you  will  ash,  "  m/j  present  establishment  ?  " 
This  is  not  by  any  means  a  cheap  Country  ;  and,  except  in  the 
article  of  wine,  I  could  give  a  dinner  or  make  a  coat,  perhaps  for 
the  same  price  in  London  as  at  Lausanne.  My  chief  advantage 
arises  from  the  things  which  I  do  not  want  ;  and  in  some 
respects  my  style  of  living  is  enlarged  by  the  encrease  of  my 
relative  importance — an  obscure  batchelor  in  England,  the  master 
of  a  considerable  house  at  Lausanne.  Here  I  am  expected  to 
return  entertainments,  to  receive  Ladies,  &c.  and  to  perform 
many  duties  of  society,  which,  though  agreeable  enough  in  them- 
selves, contribute  to  inflame  a  Housekeeper's  bills.  From  the 
disbursements  of  the  first  year  I  cannot  form  any  just  estimate  ; 
the  extraordinary  expences  of  the  journey,  carriage  of  heavy 
goods  from  England,  the  acquisition  of  many  books,  which  it 
was  not  expedient  to  transport,  the  purchase  of  furniture,  wine, 
fitting  up  my  library,  and  the  irregularity  of  a  new  Menage,  have 
consumed  a  pretty  large  sum.  But  in  a  quiet,  prudent,  regular 
course  of  life,  I  think  I  can  support  myself  with  comfort  and 
honour  for  six  or  seven  hundred  pounds  a  year,  instead  of  a 
thousand  or  eleven  hundred  in  England.*  I  can  look  forward 
with  strong  and  rational  hope.  The  departure  of  the  two 
matrons,  or  not  to  build  on  the  ice,  the  mere  suppression  of  the 
Sath  jointure  will  give  me  more  than  that  income,  which  may 
even  be  enlarged  by  turning  Buriton  into  an  annuity. 

*Besides  these  uncertainties,  (uncertain  at  least  as  to  the  time,) 
I  have  a  sure  and  honourable  supply  from  my  own  pen.  I 
continue  my  history  with  pleasure  and  assiduity  ;  the  way  is  long 


126  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1785. 

and  laborious,  yet  I  see  the  end,  and  I  can  almost  promise  to  land 
in  England  next  September  tvvelfthmonth,  with  a  Manuscript  of 
the  current  value  of  three  thousand  pounds,  which  will  afford 
either  a  small  income  or  a  large  capital.  It  is  in  the  meanwhile 
that  my  situation  is  somewhat  painful  and  difficult.*  From 
the  French  and  English  funds  and  the  various  produce  on  my 
Copper  share,  I  receive  between  two  or  three  hundred  pounds  : 
the  rent  of  Buriton  is  between  six  and  seven  hundred,  but  when 
you  have  deducted  taxes,  repairs,  Mrs.  G.'s  jointure  (£300  clear) 
&c.,  weigh  the  residue  ;  it  will  not  break  down  the  scale.  It 
happens  unluckily  enough  that  this  year  there  will  be  an  extra- 
ordinary deduction  (at  least  one  hundred  guineas)  of  the  fine 
which  is  paid  every  seven  years  for  the  renewal  of  Horn  farm. 
Since  my  arrival  here,  I  have  never  received  a  line  from  Hugonin, 
to  whom  I  wrote  a  long  letter  last  summer,  and  I  fear  his  eyes 
and  infirmities  disqualify  him  a  little  for  business.  The  sums 
which  he  has  remitted  to  Gosling  the  last  and  the  present  winter 
fall  below  the  most  moderate  computation,  and  I  see  no  reason  or 
account  of  the  deficiency.  I  wish  you  would  write  to  him  in  my 
name  or  your  own,  and  make  yourself  master  of  that  same  part 
of  my  affairs.  Richard  Andrews,  an  honest  attorney  of  Peters- 
field,  is  allowed  my  quitrents  for  holding  my  courts,  and  he 
might  surely,  without  more  trouble  or  wages,  receive  and  remit 
the  rents  of  three  or  four  farms. 

*Such  are  the  services  and  revenues  of  the  year  ;  proceed  we 
now,  in  the  style  of  the  budget,  to  the  ways  and  means  of 
extraordinary  supplies.*  Payne's  valuation  of  the  remaining 
part  of  my  library  has  not  perfectly  answered  my  expectation. 
Yet  it  is  approved  by  my  friend,  Elmsley,  who  offers  on  his 
own  account  to  change  the  pounds  into  Guineas,  and  as  I  want 
the  money,  and  esteem  his  integrity,  I  shall  signify  my  acceptance 
if  he  will  allow  me  to  make  another  moderate  draft  from  the 
Catalogue.  That  transaction  (all  accounts  settled)  will  put 
some  money  in  my  pocket :  but  as  I  understand  that  kind 
of  business  I  will  not  trouble  you  or  myself  with  any  farther 
details.  A  circumstance  which  surprized  me  in  Gosling's  account 
is  the  last  six  months  from  Lady  day  to  Michaelmas  last, 
during  which  I  pay  interest  for  the  Mortgage  without  receiving 
rent  from  the  Estate :  surely  that  is  not  just  or  reasonable. 
If  that  half  year  is  properly  excepted  in  the  Conveyance,  you 


1785.]  PITT  A  FAVOURITE  ABROAD.  127 

my  omnipotent  Attorney  may  draw  it  from  the  tenants,  and  it 
will  serve  at  least  to  discharge  Harris's  bond.  If  it  is  not,  I 
must  submit  with  a  sigh  to  this  new  deduction  of  two  or  three 
hundred  pounds  from  the  poor  price  of  poor  Lenborough.  But 
this  deficiency  must  somewhere  be  supplied  :  as  I  now  pay  interest 
to  the  Jo})  for  my  horses,  I  can  make  the  man  wait  a  Couple  of 
years  till  my  return.  But  this  cursed  account  of  Newton  !  He 
is  pathetic,  you  say,  on  the  score  of  money  advanced  ;  a  draft  for 
£200  which  I  send  you  inclosed  would  surely  discharge  that 
advance,  and  you  will  try  to  manage  him  to  stay  till  my  labours 
are  finished  for  the  payment  of  his  own.  Yet  perhaps  the  clearest 
and  most  honourable  way  would  be  to  borrow  £500  of  the  Goslings 
on  my  account  and  your  own  bond.  *I  will  not  affront  your 
friendship,  by  observing  that  you  will  incur  little  or  no  risk  on 
this  occasion.     Kead,  consider,  act,  and  write. 

It  is  the  privilege  of  friendship  to  make  our  friend  a  patient 
hearer,  and  active  Associate  in  our  own  affairs  ;  and  I  have  now 
written  five  pages  on  my  private  affairs,  without  saying  a  word 
either  of  the  public,  or  of  yourself.  Of  the  public  I  have  little 
to  say ;  I  never  was  a  very  warm  Patriot,  and  I  grow  every  day 
a  Citizen  of  the  World.  The  scramble  for  power  and  profit  at 
Westminster  or  St.  James's,  and  the  names  of  Pitt  and  Fox, 
become  less  interesting  to  me  than  those  of  Caesar  and  Pompey. 
You  are  not  a  friend  of  the  young  Minister,  but  he  is  a  great 
favourite  on  the  Continent,  as  he  appears  to  be  still ;  and  you 
must  own  that  the  fairness  of  his  character,  his  eloquence,  his 
apphcation  to  business,  and  even  his  youth,  must  prepossess  at 
least  the  ignorant  in  his  favour.  Of  the  merit  or  defects  of  his 
administration  I  cannot  pretend  to  speak  ;  but  I  find,  from  the 
complaints  of  some  interested  persons,  that  his  restraints  on  the 
smuggling  of  tea  have  already  ruined  the  East  India  Companies 
of  Antwerp  and  Sweden,  and  that  even  the  Dutch  will  scarcely 
find  it  worth  their  while  to  send  any  ships  to  China.  Your  Irish 
friends  appear  to  be  more  quiet,  at  least  the  Volunteers  and 
national  Congress  seem  to  subside.  How  far  that  tranquillity 
must  be  pm'chased  on  our  side,  by  any  pernicious  sacrifices,  you 
will  best  decide  ;  and  from  some  hints  in  your  last  letters,  I  am 
inclined  to  think  that  you  are  less  affected  than  might  be  supposed 
with  national  or  local  prejudice.  Your  introduction  I  have 
attentively  read  ;  the  matter,  though  most  important  in  itself,  is 


128  GIBBON'S  CORRESPOXDENCE.  [1785. 

out  of  the  line  of  my  studies  and  habits,  and  the  subordinate 
beauties  of  style  and  arrangement  you  disclaim.  Yet  I  can  say 
with  truth,  that  I  never  met  with  more  curious  and  diligent 
investigation,  more  strong  sense,  more  liberal  spirit,  and  more 
cool  and  impartial  temper  in  the  same  number  of  pages.^ 

By  this  time  you  have  probably  read  Necker's  book  on  the 
Finances.  Perhaps  for  you  there  is  too  much  French  enthusiasm 
and  paint ;  but  in  many  respects  you  must  have  gained  a  knowledge 
of  his  country,  and  on  the  whole,  you  must  have  been  pleased  with 
the  picture  of  a  great  and  benevolent  mind.  In  your  attack  on 
Deyverdun  for  my  picture  I  cannot  promise  you  much  success  ; 
he  seems  resolved  to  maintain  his  right  of  possession,  and  your 
only  chance  would  be  a  personal  assault.  The  next  summer 
(how  time  slips  away  !)  was  fixed  for  your  visit  to  Lausanne. 
We  are  prepared  at  all  points  to  receive  you,  My  lady,  and  a 
princess  or  two,  with  their  train  ;  and  if  you  have  a  proper 
contempt  for  St.  Stephen's  chappel,  you  are  perfectly  free,  and 
at  leisure  (can  you  ever  be  at  leisure  ?)  for  the  summer  season. 
As  you  are  now  in  a  great  measure  disengaged  from  my  affairs, 
you  may  find  time  to  inform  me  of  your  proceedings  and  your 
projects.  At  present  I  do  not  even  know  whether  you  pass  the 
Avinter  at  Sheffield-place  or  in  Downing-street.  My  lady  revenges 
herself  of  my  long  silence.  Yet  I  embrace  her  and  the  Infants. 
In  a  few  weeks  we  expect  Miss  Bristow  and  Mrs.  Fraser  from 
Nice.  Adieu.  You  have  deranged  the  dechne  and  fall  this 
morning.  I  have  finished  my  Epistle  since  dinner,  and  am  now 
going  to  a  pleasant  party  and  good  supper.* 

I  send  you  enclosed  a  promissory  note  for  £500.  If  you  do 
not  borrow  the  money  of  Gosling,  you  may  throw  it  into  the  fire  ; 
if  you  do,  in  case  of  death  it  will  serve  as  a  remembrance.  You 
will  find  that  before  and  since  the  receipt  of  their  balance  I  have 
drawn  this  year  for  £300.  The  change  is  most  amazingly  in  my 
favour,  and  a  banker  of  credit  and  substance  at  Lausanne  allows 
me  4  per  Cent,  for  all  the  money  I  leave  on  his  hands. 

'  Lord  ShefiSeld  published,  in  1785,  his  Observations  on  the  Manufactures^ 
Trade,  and  Present  State  of  Ireland. 


1785.]  A  YOUNG  MAN  AT   FIFTY.  129 

500. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  July  IStli,  1785. 

Indeed  and  indeed,  my  Dear  Madam,  I  will  never  go  to  sleep 
again ;  my  next  letter  shall  be  short  and  speedy,  and  I  will  not 
always  put  myself  under  the  shameful  necessity  of  employing  the 
first  page  in  worthless  Apologies.  On  the  present  occasion  I  will 
not  excuse  myself  by  saying  (what  is  true  enough)  that  I  waited 
week  after  week  in  hopes  of  hearing  from  you.  As  our  last  letters 
crossed  each  other,  you  might  reasonably  entertain  the  same 
expectation,  and  thus  it  is  that  poor  miserable  mortals  try  to 
provide  a  decent  colour  for  their  own  lazyness.  You  will  expect 
some  account  of  the  time  of  silence,  and  that  account  will  be 
short  and  satisfactory.  I  am  no  longer  in  the  illusions  of  the 
Honey-moon,  when  every  deformity  is  concealed,  and  a  smooth 
deceitful  gloss  is  given  to  every  object. 

In  the  space  of  two  and  twenty  months,  the  Climate  and 
Society  of  Lausanne,  my  own  situation  and  expence,  the  character- 
of  my  companion  and  of  my  looser  connections  of  both  sexes 
are  perfectly  understood.  The  Climate  in  these  two  Winters 
has  shewn  itself  to  all  Europe,  more  strongly  perhaps  to  us, 
under  the  most  hideous  form,  severe  cold,  and  a  continuance  ov 
repetition  of  snow  till  the  middle  of  April.  In  general  my 
health  has  perfectly  sustained  the  rigour  of  the  season ;  good 
spirits,  good  appetite,  good  sleep  are  my  habitual  state,  and 
though  verging  towards  fifty  I  still  feel  myself  a  young  man, 
I  was  in  hopes  that  my  old  Enemy  the  Gout  had  given  over  the 
attack,  but  the  Villain,  with  his  ally  the  winter,  convinced  me 
of  my  error,  and  about  the  latter  end  of  March  I  found  myself 
a  prisoner  in  my  library  and  my  great  chair.  I  attempted  twice 
to  rise,  he  twice  knocked  me  down  again,  and  kept  possession 
of  both  my  feet  and  knees  longer  (I  must  confess)  than  he 
had  ever  done  before.  My  recovery  has  been  proportionably 
tedious,  and  I  am  hardly  yet  in  possession  of  my  full  strength  -^ 
this  admonition  calls  for  some  extraordinary  care,  and  without 
running  into  sudden  extremes,  I  consult  both  my  reason  and  my 

VOL.  II.  K 


130  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [17S5. 

taste  by  abstaining  at  night  from  wine  and  meat,  and  contenting 
myself  with  a  bason  of  milk. 

Such  are  the  drawbacks  on  the  comforts  of  life,  yet  I  am 
pleased  to  think  that  my  gout,  though  it  has  adhered  somewhat 
longer  than  usual,  is  neither  sharp  nor  frequent,  and  respectfully 
confines  itself  to  the  lower  extremities  of  the  Machine.  Of  the 
Country  I  must  not  complain,  this  dry  Climate  is  particularly 
favourable  to  gouty  constitutions  ;  Dr.  Tissot  and  my  own  obser- 
vation inform  me  that  it  is  rare  among  the  natives,  and  among 
my  acquaintance  I  can  only  name  one  old  Gentleman,  who  by 
free  living  acquired  it  about  the  age  of  three  score.  My  un- 
pleasant and  sometimes  painful  confinement  was  soothed  not 
only  by  the  mercenary  aid  of  Servants  and  Physicians  (the 
fee  of  a  visit  is  about  half  a  crown),  but  by  the  assiduous  offices 
of  my  friends,  and  instead  of  the  lonesome  time  an  invalid  who 
has  not  a  family  must  pass  amidst  the  crowds  of  London,  I  had 
the  frequent  visits  of  agreable  men  and  women  and  a  party  of 
cards  every  evening  that  I  chose  it. 

I  do  not  suppose  that  real  affection,  especially  to  a  stranger, 
is  a  very  plentiful  commodity,  but  here  there  are  much  fewer 
avocations  of  business  or  pleasure,  and  my  style  of  living,  my 
house,  my  table,  &c,,  make  me  a  man  of  mark  and  consequence. 
With  the  recovery  of  my  strength,  I  now  return  civilities,  relax 
my  studies,  and  visit  my  acquaintance  who  are  not  gone  ;  but  so 
well  do  I  like  this  habitation,  and  such  is  my  sedentary  disposition, 
that  I  have  not  yet  lain  from  Home,  nor  gone  five  miles  from 
Lausanne.  You  will  give  me  credit  when  I  say,  that,  though  a 
lover  of  society,  my  library  is  the  room  to  which  I  am  the  most 
attached.  I  almost  hesitate  whether  I  shall  tell  you  that  the 
prospect  and  furniture  are  equally  agreable,  that  a  reasonable 
number  of  my  books  is  arrived  from  England,  and  that  my  whole 
establishment  is  formed  upon  a  comfortable  yet  ceconomical  plan  : 
in  the  single  articles  of  house-rent,  carriage,  servants'  wages, 
clubs,  and  public  places  I  save  between  four  and  five  hundred  a 
year.  And  let  me  appeal  to  your  reason  and  spirit  whether  such 
a  saving  be  not  as  real  and  a  much  more  honourable  addition 
of  income,  than  a  pityful,  precarious  place  or  pension  to  be  held 
or  lost  by  the  caprice  of  a  Minister  or  the  Eevolutions  of  politics. 
When  I  was  flattered  with  a  distant  hope  of  a  seat  at  the  boards 
of  customs  or  excise,  I  was  told  that  I  need  not  work  above  five 


1785.]  CHANGES  IN  ENGLISH  POLITICS.  131 

days  in  the  week,  and  that  I  should  sometimes  enjoy  the  respite 
of  Holydays  and  Vacations.  Without  any  attendance  or  obligation 
I  have  given  myself  a  state  of  leisure  and  independence,  in  which 
my  labour  is  only  employed  on  litterary  pursuits,  the  objects  of 
my  choice  and  the  foundation  of  my  fame. 

As  every  white  spot  in  this  life  is  clouded  with  a  shade  of  black* 
I  can  only  lament  that  this  state  is  so  far  remote  from  the  best 
and  most  faithful  of  my  friends,  so  faithful  and  so  true  that  they 
will  enjoy  my  happiness  though  they  cannot  be  witnesses  or  par- 
takers of  it.  On  my  side,  I  think  of  them  much  oftener  than  I 
write  to  them,  and  warmly  cherish  the  hope  of  an  English  Journey 
to  them  ;  the  time  must  depend  on  the  completion  of  my  history, 
and  I  am  sorry  to  observe  that  as  I  advance  on  my  Journey 
**  New  Alps  on  Alps  arise  ;  "  and  I  know  not  when  I  shall  reach 
the  shelter  of  my  Inn. 

After  yourself  and  Mrs.  Porten,  Lord  and  Lady  Sheffield  are 
the  persons  whom  I  most  desire  to  see.  Among  my  companions 
of  the  World  are  undoubtedly  several  whom  I  regard  and  of  whose 
good  wishes  I  am  persuaded ;  yet  those  slighter  tyes  are  insensibly 
relaxed  by  the  distance  of  time  and  place,  by  the  interposition 
of  new  objects.  My  political  connections  have  undergone  such 
astonishing  changes,  a  new  Parliament,  a  new  Administration, 
Patriots  whom  I  left  Ministers,  Ministers  whom  I  left  Boys,  the 
whole  Map  of  the  Country  so  totally  altered,  that  I  sometimes 
imagine  I  have  been  ten  years  absent  from  England.  That 
incessant  hurry  of  Politicks  was  indeed  one  of  the  things  which 
disgusted  the  most,  and  there  is  nothing  pleases  me  so  much  in 
this  country  as  to  enjoy  all  the  blessings  of  a  Good  Government 
without  ever  talking  or  thinking  of  our  Governors.  In  my 
domestic  Government  a  great  though  not  unexpected  Revolution 
has  happened.  Caplen,  unable  to  accustom  himself  to  the  language 
or  manners  of  this  country,  resigned  his  employments  and  returned 
to  England  the  beginning  of  last  winter.  You  may  easily  con- 
ceive my  loss  and  apprehension,  and  you  will  rejoyce  in  my  good 
fortune  that  I  was  able  to  fill  his  place  with  no  unworthy  suc- 
cessor ;  a  servant  of  this  country,  but  who  had  lived  with  a  Lady 
at  Paris  till  her  death — a  man  of  substance  and  reputation,  and 
who  on  the  tryal  of  some  months  appears  to  deserve  my  confidence 
and  good  opinion.  We  are  already  thoroughly  accustomed  to 
each  other.    Adieu.    My  Dear  Madam,  may  our  correspondence 


132  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1785. 

be  more  frequent,  and  may  I   find  you  on  my  return  in  the 
possession  of  every  blessing. 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.G. 


501. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  September  5th,  1785. 

*Extract  from  a  weekly  English  paper,  September  5th,  1785. — 
"  It  is  reported,  but  we  hope  without  foundation,  that  the  cele- 
brated Mr.  Gibbon,  who  had  retired  to  Lausanne  in  Switzerland 
to  finish  his  valuable  history,  lately  died  in  that  city." 

The  hope  of  the  News  writer  is  very  handsome  and  obliging  to 
the  historian  ;  yet  there  are  several  weighty  reasons  which  would 
incline  me  to  believe  that  the  intelligence  may  be  true.  Prima^ 
It  must  one  day  be  true  ;  and  therefore  may  very  probably  be  so 
at  present.  Secundo,  We  may  always  depend  on  the  impartiality, 
accuracy,  and  veracity  of  an  English  newspaper.  Tertio,  which  is 
indeed  the  strongest  argument,  we  are  credibly  informed  that  for 
a  long  time  past  the  said  celebrated  historian  has  not  written  to 
any  of  his  friends  in  England  ;  and  as  that  respectable  personnage 
had  always  the  reputation  of  a  most  exact  and  regular  corre- 
spondent, it  may  be  fairly  concluded  from  his  silence,  that  he  either 
is,  or  ought  to  be,  dead.     The  only  objection  that  I  can  foresee, 

is  the  assurance  that  Mr.  G himself  read  the  article  as  he 

was  eating  his  breakfast,  and  laughed  very  heartily  at  the  mistake 
of  his  brother  historian  ;  but  as  he  might  be  desirous  of  con- 
cealing that  unpleasant  event,  we  shall  not  insist  on  his  apparent 
health  and  spirits,  which  might  be  affected  by  that  subtle 
politician.  He  affirms,  however,  not  only  that  he  is  alive,  and 
was  so  on  the  fifth  of  September,  but  that  his  head,  his  heart,  his 
stomach,  are  in  the  most  perfect  state,  and  that  the  Climate  of 
Lausanne  has  been  congenial  both  to  his  mind  and  body.  He 
confesses,  indeed,  that  after  the  last  severe  winter,  the  Gout,  his 
old  enemy,  from  whom  he  hoped  to  have  escaped,  pursued  him  to 
his  retreat  among  the  mountains  of  Helvetia,  and  that  the  siege 
was  long,  though  more  languid  than  in  his  precedent  attacks ; 
after  some  exercise  of  patience  he  began  to  creep,  and  gradually 


1785.]  A  CURIOUS  QUESTION  OF  PHILOSOPHY.  133 

to  walk  ;  and  though  he  can  neither  run,  nor  fly,  nor  dance,  he 
supports  himself  with  grace  and  firmness  on  his  two  legs,  and 
would  willingly  kick  the  impertinent  Gazetteer ;  impertinent 
enough,  though  more  easily  to  be  forgiven  than  the  insolent 
Courier  du  Bas  Rhin,  who  about  three  years  ago  amused  himself 
and  his  readers  with  a  fictitious  Epistle  from  Mr.  Gibbon  to  Dr. 
Kobertson. 

Perhaps  now  you  think,  Irish  Baron,  that  I  shall  apologize  in 
humble  style  for  my  silence  and  neglect.  But,  on  the  contrary, 
I  do  assure  you  that  I  am  truly  provoked  at  your  Lordship's  not 
condescending  to  be  in  a  passion.  I  might  really  have  been  dead, 
I  might  have  been  sick ;  if  I  were  neither  dead  nor  sick,  I 
deserved  a  volley  of  curses  and  reproaches  for  my  infernal 
laziness,  and  you  have  defrauded  me  of  my  just  dues.  Had  I 
been  silent  till  Christmas,  till  Doomsday,  you  would  never  have 
thought  it  worth  your  while  to  abuse  me.  "Why,  then,"  (let 
me  ask  in  your  name  and  language,  '  you  damned  beast '),  "did  you 
not  write  before  ?  "  That  is  indeed  a  very  curious  question  of 
natural  and  moral  Philosophy.  Certainly  I  am  not  lazy  ;  elaborate 
quartos  have  proved,  and  will  abundantly  prove  my  diUgence.  I 
tan  write  ;  spare  my  modesty  on  that  subject.  I  like  to  converse 
with  my  friends  by  pen  or  tongue,  and  as  soon  as  I  can  set  myself 
a  going,  I  know  no  moments  that  run  off  more  pleasantly.  I  am 
so  well  convinced  of  that  truth,  and  so  much  ashamed  of  forcing 
people  that  I  love  to  forget  me,  that  I  have  now  resolved  to  set 
apart  the  first  hour  of  each  day  for  the  discharge  of  my  obli- 
gations ;  beginning  comme  de  raison,  with  yourself,  and  regularly 
proceeding  to  Lord  Loughborough  and  the  rest.  May  Heaven 
give  me  strength  and  grace  to  accomplish  this  laudable  intention  ! 
Amen. 

Certainly  (yet  I  do  not  know  whether  it  be  so  certain)  I 
ehould  write  much  oftener  to  you,  if  we  were  not  linked  in 
business,  and  if  my  business  had  not  always  been  of  the  unpleasant 
and  mortifying  kind.  Even  now  I  shove  the  ugly  monster  to 
the  end  of  this  epistle,  and  will  confine  him  to  a  page  by  himself, 
that  he  may  not  infect  the  purer  air  of  our  correspondence.  Of 
my  situation  here  I  have  little  new  to  say,  except  a  very  com- 
fortable and  singular  truth,  that  my  passion  for  my  wife  or 
mistress  (Fanny  Lausanne)  is  not  palled  by  satiety  and  possession 
of  two  years.     I  have  seen  her  in  all  seasons  and  in  all  humours, 


134  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCK  [1785. 

and  though  she  is  not  without  faults,  they  are  infinitely  over- 
balanced by  her  good  qualities.  Her  face  is  not  handsome,  but 
her  person,  and  every  thing  about  her,  has  admirable  grace  and 
beauty  :  she  is  of  a  very  chearful,  sociable  temper  ;  without  much 
learning,  she  is  endowed  with  taste  and  good  sense  ;  and  though 
not  rich,  the  simplicity  of  her  education  makes  her  a  very  good 
economist ;  she  is  forbid  by  her  parents  to  wear  any  expensive 
finery  ;  and  though  her  limbs  are  not  much  calculated  for  walking, 
she  has  not  yet  asked  me  to  keep  her  a  Coach. 

Last  spring  (not  to  wear  the  metaphor  to  rags)  I  saw 
Lausanne  in  a  new  light,  during  my  long  fit  of  the  Gout ; 
and  must  boldly  declare,  that  either  in  health  or  sickness  I 
find  it  far  more  comfortable  than  your  huge  metropolis.  In 
London  my  confinement  was  sad  and  solitary  ;  the  many  forgot 
my  existence  when  they  saw  me  no  longer  at  Brookes's  ;  and 
the  few,  who  sometimes  cast  a  thought  or  an  eye  on  their 
friend,  were  detained  by  business  or  pleasure,  the  distance  of 
the  way,  or  the  hours  of  the  house  of  commons  ;  and  I  was 
proud  and  happy  if  I  could  prevail  on  Elmsley  to  enliven  the 
dullness  of  the  Evening.  Here  the  objects  are  nearer,  and 
more  distinct,  and  I  myself  am  an  object  of  much  larger  magni- 
tude. People  are  nob  kinder,  but  they  are  more  idle,  and  it  must 
be  confessed  that,  of  all  nations  on  the  globe,  the  English 
are  the  least  attentive  to  the  old  and  infirm  ;  I  do  not  mean 
in  acts  of  charity,  but  in  the  oflices  of  civil  life.  During  three 
months  I  have  had  round  my  chair  a  succession  of  agreeable 
men  and  women,  who  came  with  a  smile,  and  vanished  at  a  nod  ; 
and  as  soon  as  it  was  agreeable  I  had  a  constant  party  at  cards, 
which  was  sometimes  dismissed  to  their  respective  homes,  and 
sometimes  detained  by  Deyverdun  to  supper,  without  the  least 
trouble  or  inconvenience  to  myself.  In  a  word,  my  plan  has 
most  compleatly  answered ;  and  I  solemnly  protest,  after  two 
years'  tryal,  that  I  have  never  in  a  single  moment  repented  of  my 
transmigration. 

The  only  disagreeable  circumstance  is  the  encrease  of  a 
race  of  animals  with  which  this  country  has  been  long  infested, 
and  who  are  said  to  come  from  an  island  in  the  Northern 
Ocean.  I  am  told,  but  it  seems  incredible,  that  upwards  of 
40,000  English,  masters  and  servants,  are  now  absent  on  the 
continent ;  and  I  am  sure  we  have  our  full  proportion,  both  in 


1785.]  HIS  COUNTRYMEN  AT  LAUSANNE.  135 

town  and  country,  from  the  month  of  June  to  that  of  Octolier. 
The  occupations  of  the  Closet,  indifferent  health,  want  of  horses, 
in  some  measure  plead  my  excuse  ;  yet  I  do  too  much  to 
please  myself,  and  probably  too  little  to  satisfy  my  Countrymen. 
What  is  still  more  unlucky  is,  that  a  part  of  the  Colony  of  this 
present  year  are  really  good  company,  people  one  knows,  &c. ; 
the  Astons,^  Hales,  Hampdens,  Trevors,^  Lady  Clarges^  and 
Miss  Carter  (Iter  Sappho),  Lord  Northington,'*  &c.  I  have 
seen  Trevor  several  times,  who  talks  of  you,  and  seems  to  be  a 
more  exact  correspondent  than  myseK.  His  wife  is  much  im- 
proved by  her  diplomatic  life,  and  shines  in  every  company,  as  a 
woman  of  fashion  and  elegance.  But  those  who  have  repaid  me 
for  the  rest  were  Lord  and  Lady  Spencer.^  I  saw  them  almost 
every  day,  at  my  house  or  their  own,  during  their  stay  of  a 
month  ;  for  they  were  hastening  to  Italy,  that  they  might  return 
to  London  next  February.  He  is  a  valuable  man,  and  where  he 
is  familiar,  a  pleasant  Companion  ;  she  a  charming  woman,  who, 
with  sense  and  spirit,  has  the  simplicity  and  playfulness  of  a 
child.  You  are  not  ignorant  of  her  talents,  of  which  she  has  left 
me  an  agreable  specimen,  a  drawing  of  the  Historic  muse,  sitting 
in  a  thoughtful  posture  to  compose. 

So  much  of  self  and  Co.  Let  us  now  talk  a  little  of  your 
house  and  your  two  Countries.  Does  my  Lady  ever  join  in 
the  abuse  which  I  have  merited  from  you  ?  Is  she  satisfied 
with  her  own  behaviour,  her  unpardonable  silence,  to  one  of 
the  prettiest,  most  obliging,  most  entertaining,  most  &c.  Epistles 
that  ever  was  penned  since  the  Epistles  of  Paul  of  Tarsus  ? 
Will  she  not  meiv  one  word  of  reply  ?  I  want  some  account  of 
her  spirits,  health,  amusements,  of  the  womanly  accomplish- 
ments of  Maria,  and  the  opening  graces  of  Louisa :  of  yourself 
I  wish  to  have  some  of  those  details  which  she  is  much  more 

'  Sir  Willoughby  Aston,  the  last  baronet,  married,  in  1772,  Lady  Jane 
Henley,  sister  of  Lord  Northington,  and  died  in  1815,  without  children. 

'  The  Hon.  John  Hampden  Trevor,  second  sou  of  Lord  Hampden,  was 
British  Envoy  at  the  Court  of  Turin,  1783-99.  He  married,  in  1773,  Harriot, 
only  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Daniel  Burton,  Canon  of  Christ  Church. 

3  Lady  Charges  {n€e  Skrine)  was  the  widow  of  Sir  Thomas  Clarges,  third 
baronet,  M.P.  for  Lincoln,  who  died  in  1783. 

*  Second  Lord  Northington,  formerly  M.P.  for  Hampshire. 

*  Lord  Spencer,  who  succeeded  his  father  as  second  Earl  Spencc-r  in  1783, 
married  Lady  Lavinia  Bingham,  eldest  daughter  of  the  first  Earl  of  Lucan. 


136  GIBBON'S  COERESPONDENCE.  [1785. 

likely  to  transmit.  Are  you  patient  in  your  exclusion  from 
the  House  ?  Are  you  satisfied  with  legislating  with  your  pen  ? 
Do  you  pass  the  whole  winter  in  town  ?  Have  you  resumed  the 
pursuits  of  farming,  &c.  ?  What  new  connexions,  public  or 
private,  have  you  formed  ?  A  tour  to  the  Continent  would  be 
the  best  medicine  for  the  shattered  nerves  of  a  soldier  and 
politician.  By  this  expression  you  will  perceive  that  your  letter 
to  Deyverdun  is  received  ;  it  landed  last  post,  after  I  had  already 
written  the  two  first  pages  of  this  composition.  On  the  whole, 
my  friend  was  pleased  and  flattered  :  but  instead  of  surrendering 
or  capitulating,  he  seems  to  be  making  preparations  for  an 
obstinate  defence.  He  already  talks  of  the  right  of  possession, 
of  the  duties  of  a  good  Citizen,  of  a  writ  ne  exeat  Regno,  and  of 
a  vote  of  the  two  hundred,  that  whosoever  shall,  directly  or 
indirectly,  &c.,  is  an  Enemy  to  his  Country.  Between  you  be  the 
strife,  while  I  sit  with  my  scales  in  my  hand,  like  Jupiter  on 
Mount  Ida. 

I  begin  to  view  with  the  same  indifference  the  combat 
of  Achilles  Pitt  and  Hector  Fox  ;  for  such  as  it  should  now 
seem,  must  be  the  comparison  of  the  two  Warriors.*  Lord 
Northington,  who  is  firm  in  his  party,  assures  me  that  the 
popularity  of  the  young  Minister,  and  even  the  opinion  of  his 
abilities,  have  considerably  diminished ;  but  he  confesses  that 
such,  or  much  greater,  diminution  will  not  weaken  his  influence  in 
the  Parliament,  and  must  tend  to  promote  his  favour  and  con- 
fidence in  a  certain  place.  *At  this  distance  I  am  much  less 
angry  with  bills,  taxes,  and  propositions,  than  I  am  pleased  with 
Pitt  for  making  a  friend  and  a  deserving  man  happy,  for  releasing 
poor  Batt  from  the  shackles  of  the  law,  and  for  enhancing  the 
gift  of  a  secure  and  honourable  competency,  by  the  handsome 
unsolicited  manner  in  which  it  was  conferred.  This  I  under- 
stand to  be  the  case,  from  the  unsuspicious  evidence  of  Lord  K". 
and  Chief  Baron  Skinner  ;  and  if  I  can  find  time  (j-esolution)  I 
will  send  him  a  hearty  congratulation  ;  if  I  fail,  you  may  at  least 
communicate  my  intentions.  Of  Ireland  I  know  nothing,  and 
while  I  am  Writing  the  decline  of  a  great  Empire,  I  have  not 
leisure  to  attend  to  the  affairs  of  a  remote  and  petty  province.  I 
see  that  your  friend  Foster  ^  has  been  hooted  by  the  Mob,  and 

'  The  Right  Hon.  John  Foster,  Lord  Oriel  (1740-1828),  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer  in  Ireland  Q784),  Speaker  of  the  Irish  House  of  Commons  (1785- 


1785.]      SENSE  OR  NONSENSE  OF  IRISH  PARLIAMENTS.      137 

unanimously  chosen  Speaker  by  the  House  of  Commons.  How 
could  Pitt  expose  himself  to  the  disgrace  of  witlidrawiug  his 
propositions  after  a  public  attempt  ?  ^  Have  ministers  no  way  of 
computing  beforehand  the  sense  or  nonsense  of  an  Irish  parlia- 
ment ?  I  am  quite  in  the  dark  ;  your  pamphlet,  or  book,  would 
probably  have  opened  my  eyes  ;  but  whatever  may  have  been  the 
reason,  I  give  you  my  word  of  honour  that  I  have  never  seen  nor 
heard  of  it.  Here  we  are  much  more  engaged  with  Continental 
politics.  In  general  we  hate  the  emperor,^  as  the  enemy  of  peace, 
without  daring  to  make  War.  The  old  Lyon  of  Prussia  ^  acts  a 
much  more  glorious  part,  as  the  Champion  of  public  tranquillity, 
and  the  independence  of  the  German  states. 

And  now  for  the  bitter  and  nauseous  pill  of  pecuniary 
business,  upon  which  I  shall  be  as  concise  as  possible  in  the  two 
articles  of  my  discourse,  land  and  money.*  And  concise  indeed  I 
may  be  according  to  the  slender  proportion  of  either  that  is  now 
left.  You  sometimes  accuse  me  of  not  reading  or  remembering 
the  most  important  points  of  your  despatches  :  may  I  not  equally 
complain  that  you  pass  in  silence  all  my  enquiries  and  requests 

1800),  was  the  author  of  the  Irish  Corn  Law  of  1784,  the  founder  of  the 
National  Bank,  and  closely  connected  with  Lord  Sheffield  by  their  common 
interests  in  commercial  and  financial  questions.  He  was  elected  Speaker 
August  15,  1785. 

'  Commissioners  had  been  appointed  to  draw  up  a  scheme  for  regulating 
the  commercial  intercourse  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Pitt's  eleven 
propositions  for  the  development  of  Irish  Trade,  in  their  original  form,  were 
practically  rejected  by  the  Irish  Parliament  in  February,  1785.  Remodelled, 
and  increased  to  twenty,  they  were  laid  before  the  English  House  of 
Commons  in  May,  1785,  and  a  Bill  based  on  them  was  read  the  first  time 
in  July.  This  Bill  was  then  introduced  into  the  Irish  House  on  August  12  ; 
but  it  was  carried  by  so  small  a  majority  (127  to  108)  that  it  was  abandoned. 

'  The  Emperor  Joseph  II.,  "a  qui  jamais  rien  n'a  re'ussi,"  reigned  1780- 
1790.  His  attempted  reforms  in  the  Low  Countries  created  a  revolution 
against  Austria  ;  tlie  two  insurgent  parties  of  the  Statistes  and  VoncJcistes, — 
the  one  conservative  and  aristocratic,  the  other  commercial  and  resembling 
in  their  views  the  French  Constitutionalists, — made  common  cause  and 
expelled  the  Austrian  governor,  the  Dwke  of  Saxe-Teschen.  "  Vutre  pays," 
said  Joseph,  a  few  days  before  his  death,  to  the  Prince  de  Ligne,  "  ni'a  tue'. 
La  prise  de  (iand  a  ete'  mon  agonie ;  I'abandon  de  Bruxelles,  ma  moit." 

'  Frederick  II.  of  Prussia  died  August  17,  1786.  He  had  recently  en- 
deavoured to  mediate  between  the  Republican  party  in  Holland  and  the 
Sta'ltholder,  who  was,  in  1786,  deprived  of  the  government  <'f  the  Hague 
and  of  his  military  powers  as  captain-general.  Ho  had  also,  in  1778  and 
1785,  interfered  to  prevent  Austria's  designs  upon  Bavaria. 


138  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1785. 

on  the  subject  of  Buriton  ?  In  the  space  of  two  years  I  have 
never  received  a  line  of  intelhgence  from  Hugonin  concerning 
the  state  of  that  last  and  dearest  possession.  And  as  far  as  I  can 
judge  from  Gosling's  confused  account,  which  records  only  dates 
and  names,  a  portion,  not  a  very  small  one,  of  the  rent  remains 
unpaid,  or  has  been  sunk  in  unknown  charges  and  expences. 
Let  me  therefore  repeat  perhaps  more  clearly  what  I  have  already 
desired. 

1.  That  you  would  correspond  with  Hugonin,  and  obtain  from 
him  a  correct  mercantile  account  of  debtor  and  creditor  of  rents 
and  payments  for  the  aforesaid  two  years. 

2.  That  if  there  remains  any  arrears,  you  would  propose  and 
enforce  the  most  vigorous  measures  for  my  prompt  and  entire 
satisfaction. 

3.  That  as  there  must  be  deducted  from  this  year's  rents  a 
considerable  fine  to  Magdalen  College  for  Horn,  Hugonin  at  your 
instigation  would  cast  about  to  see  whether  he  cannot  perceive 
any  extraordinary  means  of  supply  in  the  timber  way.  A  dozen 
years  have  now  elapsed  since  the  first  Cut  of  the  Hanger.  May 
not  those  underwoods  be  again  ripe  for  the  Axe  ?  You  know  I 
consider  only  present  profit,  and  disregard  all  future  improve- 
ments and  rural  beauty.  A  beast,  you  will  say.  Alas,  why  do 
hard  circumstances  force  me  to  be  one  ? 

4.  That  you  would  manage,  if  it  can  be  done  without  offence 
or  expence,  the  substitution  of  Richard  Andrews,  in  the  place  of 
Hugonin,  a  clear-sighted  Agent  for  a  blind  Gentleman.  I  fear 
nothing  more  is  to  be  expected  from  Lenborough,  but  as  you 
seem  quiet,  I  entertain  a  faint  hope  that  Harris's  bond  has  been 
discharged  from  the  rent  or  purchase  money.  You  have  done  no 
more  than  I  expected  in  assuring  me  that  the  £500  shall  be 
ready  at  Goslings',  but  I  should  be  sorry  to  distress  you,  or  to  lay 
your  generous  spirit  under  any  obhgations  to  a  pui-se-proud  Cit. 
If  they  will  readily  take  your  bond,  and  allow  me  credit  for  the 
sum  before  the  1st  of  December  for  Januaiy  next,  it  will  be  the 
readiest  and  most  private  way.  Otherwise  I  can  have  recourse 
to  another  expedient,  of  desiring  the  Barrels  either  to  sell  an 
equivalent  part  of  my  short  annuity,  or,  if  the  funds  are  too  low, 
to  advance  me  the  desideratum  on  a  security  which  is  in  their 
own  hands.  When  I  am  possessed  of  the  money  in  one  way  or 
another  I  will  take  a  view  of  my  former  credit  with  Gosling 


1786.]  DELAYS   IN  HIS  HISTORY.  139 

(a  small  credit,  I  trow)  of  this  additional  supply  of  my  debts, 
expences,  and  resources,  and  I  hope  I  shall  be  able  to  discharge  at 
least  the  remainder  of  Newton's  bill.  But  I  must  not  impoverish 
myself  too,  and  I  have  some  thoughts  of  keeping  the  rest  of  my 
library  (if  not  troublesome  to  Downing  Street)  till  my  return  to 
England. 

*It  is  impossible  to  hate  more  than  I  do  this  odious  necessity 
of  owing,  borrowing,  anticipating  ;  and  I  look  forwards  with 
impatience  to  the  happy  period  when  the  supplies  will  always 
be  raised  within  the  year,  with  a  decent  and  useful  surplus  in 
the  treasury.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  cursed  dissolution  of 
Parliament,  such  would  already  have  been  the  case.  I  now  trust 
to  the  conclusion  of  my  History,  and  it  will  hasten  and  secure 
the  principal  comforts  of  my  life.  You  will  believe  I  am  not 
lazy  ;  yet  1  fear  the  term  is  somewhat  more  distant  than  I 
thought.  My  long  gout  lost  me  three  months  in  the  spring  ;  in 
every  great  work  unforeseen  [obstacles],  and  difficulties,  and 
delays  will  arise  ;  and  I  should  be  rather  sorry  than  surprized 
if  next  autumn  was  postponed  to  the  ensuing  spring.  If  My 
Lady  (a  good  creature)  should  write  to  Mrs.  Porten,  she  may 
convey  news  of  my  Ufe  and  health,  without  saying  anything  of 
this  possible  delay.    Adieu.     I  embrace,  &c.* 


502. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  January  17th,  1786. 

*Hear  all  Ye  nations  !  An  Epistle  from  Sheffield-place,  received 
the  17th  of  January,  is  answered  the  same  day ;  and  to  say  the 
truth,  this  method,  which  is  the  best,  is  at  the  same  time  the  most 
easy  and  pleasant.  Yet  I  do  not  allow  that  in  the  last  past  silence 
and  delay  you  have  any  more  right  to  damn  than  myself.  Our 
letters  crossed  each  other,  our  claims  were  equal,  and  if  both  had 
been  stiffly  maintained,  our  mutual  silence  must  have  continued 
till  the  day  of  judgment.  The  balance  was  doubtless  in  my 
favour,  if  you  recollect  the  length,  the  fullness,  the  variety  of 
pleasant  and  instructive  matter  of  my  last  dispatch.  Even  at 
present,  of  myself,  my  occupations,  my  designs,  I  have  little  or 
nothing  to  add  ;  and  can  only  speak  dryly  and  briefly  to  very  dry 


140  GIBBON'S  CORRESrONDENCE.  [1786. 

and  disagreeable  business  demands  and  want  of  money.  But  we 
shall  both  agree  that  the  true  criminal  is  My  Lady ;  and  though 
I  do  suppose  that  a  letter  is  on  the  road,  which  will  make  some 
amends,  her  obstinate,  contumacious,  dilatory  silence,  after  so 
many  months  or  years  since  my  valuable  letter,  is  worthy  not  of 
a  Cat  but  of  a  Royal  Tygress. 

Notwithstanding  your  gloomy  politicians,  I  do  love  the 
funds ;  and  were  the  next  war  to  reduce  them  to  half,  the 
remainder  would  be  a  better  and  pleasanter  property,  than  a 
similar  value  in  your  dirty  acres.  We  are  now  in  the  height 
of  our  winter  amusements ;  balls,  great  suppers,  comedies,  &c. ; 
and,  except  St.  Stephen's,  I  certainly  lead  a  more  gay  and 
dissipated  life  here,  among  the  Alps,  (by  the  bye,  a  most  ex- 
traordinary mild  winter,)  than  in  the  midst  of  London.  Yet 
my  mornings,  and  sometimes  an  afternoon,  are  diligently  em- 
ployed, my  work  advances,  but  much  remains,  indeed  much  more 
than  I  imagined  ;  but  a  great  book,  like  a  great  house,  was  never 
yet  finished  at  the  given  time.  When  I  talk  of  the  spring  of  '87, 
I  suppose  all  my  time  well  bestowed  ;  and  what  do  you  think  of 
a  fit  of  the  gout,  that  may  disqualify  me  for  two  or  three  months  ? 
You  may  growl,  but  if  you  calmly  reflect  on  my  pecuniary  and 
sentimental  state,  you  will  believe  that  I  most  earnestly  desire  to 
compleat  my  labour,  and  visit  England.    Adieu.* 

With  regard  to  the  three  old  Ladies,  I  behave  like  a  fool  to 
one,  and  like  a  beast  (though  they  too  are  silent)  to  the  other  two. 
But  all  shall  be  speedily  rectified.  The  portrait  seems  to  be  firmly 
rooted  here.  You  know  you  have  no  right,  and  Dey verdun  seems 
not  disposed  to  shew  you  any  indulgence. 

Yours, 

E.G. 

I  shall  probably  hear  from  you  and  the  Goslings  before  the 
end  of  next  month,  and  you  may  depend  on  an  immediate  answer. 
You  will  probably  have  corresponded  with  Hugonin.  It  is  surely 
hard  to  be  obliged  to  a  man,  who  in  two  years  and  four  months, 
has  not  condescended  to  send  me  a  line  of  information  or  account. 
If  you  talk  of  credit,  you  must  allow  that  it  is  unpleasant  to  desire 
the  Darrels  to  sell  a  part  of  my  short  Annuity. 


1786.]  IMPROVEMENT  IN  HIS   HEALTH.  141 

503. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  May  3rd,  178C. 

Dear  Madam, 

Shall  I  bepjin  by  a  complaint  or  an  apology  ?  WiLhoufc 
much  injustice  I  might  complain  of  your  long  silence,  which 
between  other  correspondents  than  ourselves  might  seem  to 
indicate  some  degree  of  forgetfulness,  the  too  frequent  conse- 
quences of  absence  and  distance.  Between  us,  however,  it  indicates 
no  such  thing,  and  in  the  confidence  of  our  mutual  regard  our 
silence  is  more  eloquent  than  the  loquacity  of  others.  I  might 
even  add  that  the  constant  expectation  on  every  post-day  of 
a  letter  from  Bath,  has  suspended  my  not  very  vigorous  efforts  to 
renew  the  correspondence.  Some  truth  there  undoubtedly  may- 
be in  this  assertion,  but  you  will  much  more  readily  believe,  that 
in  my  strange  compound  of  industry  and  lazyness,  I  have  very 
often  formed  the  design,  and  as  often  found  some  excellent  reason 
of  delay  till  the  very  next  post,  when  I  would  most  undoubtedly 
write  to  the  best  and  dearest  of  my  friends.  Perhaps  it  would 
not  be  a  bad  method  on  both  sides,  a  note  of  four  lines,  a  certi- 
ficate of  health  and  remembrance,  without  computing  of  debtor 
or  creditor,  or  any  formal  attempt  to  produce  a  regular  Epistle. 
But  as  even  this  project  may  fail,  I  must  seriously  beg  that  you 
would  never  allow  yourself  to  be  made  uneasy  by  any  flying 
reports,  or  newspaper.  Be  assured  that  if  any  untoward  accident, 
should  stop  my  breath,  or  disable  my  hand,  my  friend  M.  Dey verdun 
will  send  the  early  and  authentic  Gazette  to  Sheffield  place,  from 
whence  it  will  be  imparted  with  proper  speed  to  my  other  friends 
in  England.  At  the  same  time,  I  can  affirm  with  truth,  that  my 
sole  reason  for  this  advertisement  is  derived  from  some  foolish 
Articles,  that  were  very  familiar  last  year  to  the  home  and  foreign 
papers.  Since  I  have  known  you  or  myself  I  never  had  more 
pleasing  inducements  to  cherish  life,  or  less  apprehension  of  too* 
speedily  quitting  it. 

My  health  is  certainly  better  than  when  I  left  England,  andi 
this  improvement  I  partly  ascribe  to  the  climate,  and  partly  to  the- 
temperance  of  my  diet.  I  had  long  ago  shaken  off  the  bad  habits 
of  the  Hampshire  Militia,  but  a  London  life,  in  the  best  Company, 


142  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1786. 

is  a  life  of  fullness  and  intemperance  ;  which  cannot  be  separated 
from  the  lateness  and  irregularity  of  our  hours,  the  variety  of 
wines  and  dishes,  and  the  English  practise  of  setting  after  dinner, 
with  the  bottle  and  glasses  on  the  table.  Since  my  last  fit  of 
the  Gout,  I  avoid  the  temptation  without  losing  the  pleasure  of 
suppers,  by  confining  myself  to  a  mess  of  boiled  milk,  and  in 
companies  of  twenty  or  thirty  men  and  women,  my  frugal  bason 
has  often  been  placed  on  the  tables  :  my  dinners  are  moderate, 
and  breakfast  still  continues  to  be  my  favourite  repast.  This 
regimen  appears  to  have  succeeded  ;  I  have  passed  the  winter 
without  hearing  of  the  enemy,  and  last  month,  after  a  short  and 
slight  visit  or  rather  menace,  he  politely  retired,  and  has  left  me 
free  to  enjoy  the  beauties  of  an  incomparable  spring,  which  rapidly 
treads  on  the  heels  of  a  very  mild  winter. 

The  glories  of  the  landskip  I  have  always  enjoyed ;  but 
Deyverdun  has  almost  given  me  a  taste  for  minute  observation, 
and  I  can  dwell  with  pleasure  on  the  shape  and  colour  of  the 
leaves,  the  various  hues  of  the  blossoms,  and  successive  progress 
of  vegetation.  These  pleasures  are  not  without  cares  ;  and  there 
is  a  white  Acacia  just  under  the  windows  of  my  library,  which 
in  my  opinion  was  too  closely  pruned  last  Autumn,  and  whose 
recovery  is  the  daily  subject  of  anxiety  and  conversation !  My 
romantic  wishes  led  sometimes  to  an  idea  which  was  impracti- 
cable in  England,  the  possession  of  an  house  and  garden,  which 
should  unite  the  society  of  town  with  the  beauties  and  freedom  of 
the  country.  That  idea  is  now  realized  in  a  degree  of  perfection 
to  which  I  never  aspired,  and  if  I  could  convey  in  words  a  just 
picture  of  my  hbrary,  apartments,  terrace,  wilderness,  vineyard, 
with  the  prospect  of  land  and  water,  terminated  by  the  moun- 
tains ;  and  this  position  at  the  gate  of  a  populous  and  lively 
town  where  I  have  some  friends  and  many  acquaintance,  you 
would  envy  or  rather  applaud  the  singular  propriety  of  my  choice. 

During  the  first  year  of  my  residence  I  often  compared  the 
tumult  of  London  and  the  house  of  Commons,  with  the  studious 
social  tranquillity  of  Lausanne,  and  felt  with  complacency  that  I 
had  chosen  the  better  part.  Those  busy  scenes  are  now  far  from 
me,  like  the  remembrance  of  a  noisy  and  troublesome  dream,  and 
though  I  possess  from  nature  or  reflection  a  happiness  of  temper 
that  can  be  easy  almost  in  any  situation,  I  am  at  a  loss  to 
conceive  how  I  could  support  so  long  a  way  of  hfe  so  ill-suited 


1786.]  A  MINISTKY  OF  RESPECTABLE  BOYS.  143 

to  my  mind  and  circumstances.  What  I  particularly  disliked  was 
the  alternative  of  a  batchelor,  large  accidental  dinners  abroad,  or 
my  solitary  chicken  at  home.  Here  I  can  keep  a  regular  table  and 
establishment  equal  to  the  best  families  of  the  place ;  we  seldom 
dine  alone,  and  I  have  often  agreable  suppers  of  men  and  women. 
The  habits  of  female  conversation  have  sometimes  tempted  me  to 
acquire  the  piece  of  furniture,  a  wife,  and  could  I  unite  in  a 
single  Woman,  the  virtues  and  accomplishments  of  half  a  dozen 
of  my  acquaintance,  I  would  instantly  pay  my  addresses  to  the 
Constellation. 

In  the  mean  while  I  must  content  myself  with  my  other  wife, 
the  dechne  and  fall  of  the  Roman  Empire,  which  I  prosecute  with 
pleasant  and  constant  industry.  I  had  some  hopes  of  compleating 
it  this  year,  but  let  no  man  who  builds  a  house,  or  writes  a  book, 
presume  to  say  when  he  will  have  finished.  When  he  imagines 
that  he  is  drawing  near  to  his  journey's  end,  Alps  rise  on  Alps, 
and  he  continually  finds  something  to  add,  and  something  to 
correct.  Yet  I  noiv  think  myself  sure  of  bringing  over  two  or 
three  Yolumes  in  quarto  (down  to  the  taking  of  Constantinople  by 
the  Turks)  in  the  course  of  next  summer,  I  mean  the  summer  of 
eighty-seven,  and  as  the  business  of  impression  will  require  many 
months,  I  may  long  enjoy  the  company  .of  my  English  friends- 
Of  private  friends  I  hope  to  find  many  in  the  vulgar,  and  some 
in  the  ji?i<re  and  genuine  sense  of  the  word,  but  I  shall  be  totally 
bewildered.  About  three  months  after  my  departure,  an  Earth- 
quake threw  down  all  the  men  and  systems  of  which  I  had  any 
knowledge,  and  the  country  seems  to  be  governed  by  a  set  of  most 
respectable  boys,  who  were  at  school  half  a  dozen  years  ago.  I 
see  in  the  papers  that  young  Eliot  is  become  the  brother  and 
privy-Counsellor  of  Pitt,  and  that  the  independent  father  has  no 
objection  either  to  titles  or  places. 

And  now,  My  Dear  Madam,  after  so  much  about  myself,  let 
me  conclude  with  a  word  of  enquiry  on  a  subject  very  near  to  my 
heart,  your  health  and  happiness.  The  only  apprehension  from 
your  silence  relates  to  want  of  activity  and  spirits,  and  from  those 
fears  I  hope  you  can  honestly  deliver  me.  Remember  me  with 
kindness  to  Mrs.  Gould,  and  Mrs.  Holroyd,  and  let  me  hear  if 
any  thing  good  has  befallen  them,  more  especially  the  former, 
whose  situation  was  more  susceptible  of  change  :  when  I  mention 
her  I  include  her  family.     Is  Mr.  Melmoth  still  alive  ?    I  saw 


144  GIBBON'S  CORRESPOXDENCE.  [178G. 

young  Coxe  last  year,  with  a  very  decent  and  reasonable  Bear, 
whom  he  leads  from  North  to  South.  Adieu,  Dear  Madam,  my 
paper  fails. 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.G. 

504. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  May  10th,  1786. 

*By  the  difference,  I  suppose,  of  the  posts  of  France  and  Ger- 
many, Sir  Stanier's  letter,  though  first  written,  is  still  on  the 
road,  and  yours,  which  I  received  yesterday  morning,  brought  me 
the  first  account  of  poor  Mrs.  P[orten]'s  departure.  There  are 
few  events  that  could  affect  me  more  deeply,  and  I  have  been  ever 
since  in  a  state  of  mind  more  deserving  of  your  pity  than  of  your 
reproaches.  I  certainly  am  not  ignorant  that  we  have  nothing 
better  to  wish  for  ourselves  than  the  fate  of  that  best-humoured 
woman,  as  you  very  justly  style  her.  A  good  understanding,  and 
an  excellent  heart,  with  health,  spirits,  and  a  competency,  to  live 
in  the  midst  of  her  friends  till  the  age  of  fourscore,  and  then  to 
shut  her  eyes  without  pain  or  remorse.  Death  can  have  deprived 
her  only  of  some  years  of  weakness,  perhaps  of  misery ;  and  for 
myself  it  is  surely  less  painful  to  lose  her  at  present,  than  to  find 
her  in  my  visit  to  England  next  year  sinking  under  the  weight  of 
age  and  infirmities,  and  perhaps  forgetfull  of  herself  and  of  the 
persons  once  the  dearest  to  her. 

All  this  is  perfectly  true:  but  all  these  reflections  will  not 
dispell  a  thousand  sad  and  tender  remembrances  that  rush  upon 
my  mind.  To  her  care  I  am  indebted  in  earliest  infancy  for 
the  preservation  of  my  life  and  health.  I  was  a  puny  child, 
neglected  by  my  Mother,  starved  by  my  nurse,  and  of  whose 
being  very  little  care  or  expectation  was  entertained ;  without 
her  maternal  vigilance  I  should  either  have  been  in  my  grave, 
or  imperfectly  lived  a  crooked  ricketty  monster,  a  burthen  to 
myself  and  others.  To  her  instructions  I  owe  the  first  rudi- 
ments of  knowledge,  the  first  exercise  of  reason,  and  a  taste  for 
books,  which  is  still  the  pleasure  and  glory  of  my  life ;  and 
though  she  taught  me  neither  language  nor  science,  she  was 
certainly  the  most  useful  preceptor  I  have  ever  had.    As  I  grew 


1786.1  THE  DEATH  OP   "AUNT  KITTY."  145 

up,  an  intercourse  of  thirty  years  endeared  her  to  me,  as  the 
faithful  friend  and  the  agreeable  companion.  You  have  seen  Avith 
what  freedom  and  confidence  we  lived  together,  and  have  often 
admired  her  character  and  conversation,  which  could  alike  please 
the  young  and  the  old.  All  this  is  now  lost,  finally,  irrecoverably 
lost !  I  will  agree  with  My  Lady,  that  the  immortality  of  the 
soul  is  on  some  occasions  a  very  comfortable  doctrine.  A  thousand 
thanks  to  her  for  her  constant  kind  attention  to  that  poor  woman 
who  is  no  more. 

I  wish  I  had  as  much  to  applaud  and  as  little  to  reproach 
in  my  own  behaviour  towards  Mrs.  P.  since  I  left  England ; 
and  when  I  reflect  that  my  letters  would  have  soothed  and 
comforted  her  decline,  I  feel  more  deeply  than  I  can  express,  the 
real  neglect,  and  seeming  indifference,  of  my  silence.  To  delay  a 
letter  from  the  Wednesday  to  the  Saturday,  and  then  from  the 
Saturday  to  the  Wednesday,  appears  a  very  slight  offence  ;  yet  in 
the  repetition  of  such  delay,  weeks,  months,  and  years  will  elapse, 
till  the  omission  may  become  irretrievable,  and  the  consequence 
mischievous  or  fatal.  After  a  long  lethargy,  I  had  rouzed  myself 
last  week,  and  wrote  to  the  three  old  Ladies  ;  my  letter  for  New- 
man Street  went  away  last  post,  Saturday  night,  and  yours  did  not 
arrive  till  Monday  morning.  Sir  Stanier  will  probably  open  it, 
and  read  the  true  picture  of  my  sentiments  for  a  friend  who,  when 
I  wrote,  was  already  extinct.  There  is  something  sad  and  awful 
in  the  thought,  yet  on  the  whole,  I  am  sorry  that  even  this  tardy 
Epistle  preceded  my  knowledge  of  her  death.  But  it  did  not 
precede  (you  will  observe)  the  information  of  her  dangerous  and 
declining  state,  which  I  conveyed  in  my  last  letter,  and  her 
anxious  concern  that  she  should  never  see  or  hear  from  you  again. 
This  idea,  and  the  hard  thoughts  which  you  must  entertain  of 
me,  press  so  hard  on  my  mind,  that  I  must  frankly  acknowledge  a 
strange  and  inexcusable  supineness,  on  which  I  desire  you  would 
make  no  comment,  and  which  in  some  measure  may  account  for 
my  delays  in  corresponding  with  you.  The  unpleasant  nature  of 
business,  and  the  apprehension  of  finding  something  disagreeable, 
tempted  me  to  postpone  from  day  to  day,  not  only  the  answering, 
but  even  the  opening,  your  penultimate  epistle ;  and  when  I 
received  your  last,  yesterday  morning,  the  seal  of  the  former  was 
still  unbroken.  Oblige  me  so  far  as  to  make  no  reflections  ;  my 
own  may  be  of  service  to  me  hereafter.  Thus  far  (except  the 
VOL.  n.  L 


146  gibbon's  CORKESPOXDEXCE.  [1786. 

last  sentence)  I  have  run  on  with  a  sort  of  melancholy  pleasure, 
and  find  my  heart  much  relieved  by  unfolding  it  to  a  friend. 
And  the  subject  so  strongly  holds  me,  so  much  disqualifies  me 
for  other  discourse,  either  serious  or  pleasant,  that  here  I  would 
willingly  stop,  and  reserve  all  miscellaneous  matter  for  a  second 
volunteer  Epistle.  But  we  both  know  how  frail  are  promises,  how 
dangerous  are  delays,  and  there  are  some  pecuniary  objects  on 
which  I  think  it  necessary  to  give  you  an  immediate,  though  now 
tardy,  explanation. 

I  do  not  return  you  any  formal  thanks  for*  securing  me  the 
£500  at  Gosling's.  We  are  sufficiently  acquainted  with  each 
other's  sentiments,  nor  can  I  be  surprized  that  you  should  do  for 
me  what  in  a  similar  situation  you  would  have  found  and  ac- 
cepted without  hesitation  on  my  part.  But  I  must  remove  the 
appearance  of  duplicity  which  might  not  give  you  pleasure,  that 
I  should  complain  of  urgent  poverty,  and  doubt  whether  my 
draught  would  be  paid,  while  I  had  £400  in  Gosling's  hands.  A 
part  of  this  wealth  is  only  ideal,  as  I  had  reckoned  on  Mr&. 
Gibbon's  Christmas  half-year  (£150),  which  was  really  drawn  for 
a  few  days  afterwards.  For  the  rest  of  the  difference,  I  can  only 
say  that  I  reckoned  from  memory  (having  mislaid  their  last  year's 
account),  that  my  fears  preponderated,  and  that  I  am  glad  to  find 
myself  for  once,  a  richer  man  than  I  expected.  To  show  you  that 
I  am  in  earnest,  as  I  shall  not  want  to  draw  for  some  months,  I 
am  very  willing  that  you  should  divert  a  part  of  your  supply  to 
the  most  pressing  occasions.  Of  that  nature  is  certainly  the 
Buckinghamshire  bond  to  the  man  who  married  Harris's  daughter, 
and  I  beg  you  would  pay  both  principal  and  interest  iumaediately. 
The  Jobbman  for  horses  should,  I  think,  be  the  next,  and  when 
these  two  are  satisfied,  upwards  of  £200  must  remain.  When  I 
consider  the  large  amount  and  easy  earning  of  Newton's  bill,  he 
surely  may  wait  for  my  return.  If  you  are  too  much  plagued 
with  his  importunities,  silence  him  with  another  sop  of  £100. 
Whatever  you  do,  you  will  send  me  the  account,  that  I  may  know 
the  exact  quantity  of  my  provision.  You  know  my  attachment  to 
my  little  deposit  in  the  funds,  but  if  I  should  be  pressed  before  my 
return  by  any  further  expences  or  demands,  I  will  transact  the 
business  with  the  Barrels  either  by  sale  or  loan.  Apropos  of 
Newton,  were  it  perfectly  convenient,  I  would  not  clear  his  whole 
bill,  till  I  had  extracted  from  his  hands  all  the  writings  of  my 


1786.]     BOOKS  LONGER  IN  MAKING   THAN   PUDDINGS.      147 

Hampshire  Estate.  I  wish  you  would  seriously  undertake  that 
extraction,  the  importance  of  which  you  feel  more  strongly  than 
myself. 

I  have  really  an  hundred  things  to  say  of  myself,  of  you 
and  Co.,  of  your  works,  of  mine,  of  my  books  in  Downing  Street, 
of  Lausanne,  of  Politicks,  &c.  &c.  After  this,  some  Epistolary 
debts  must  and  shall  be  paid  ;  and  to  proceed  with  order,  I  have 
fixed  this  day  fortnight  (May  25th)  for  the  date  and  dispatch 
of  your  second  Epistle.  Give  me  credit  once  more.  Pray,  does 
My  Lady  think  herself  absolved  from  all  obligation  of  writing  ta 
me  ?    To  /ier,  at  least,  I  am  not  iw  arrear.    Adieu. 

505. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  July  22nd,  1786. 

This  general  order  will,  I  presume,  remove  all  the  unforeseen 
difficulties,  which  I  should  have  thought  must  have  given  way  to> 
your  name,  and  the  knowledge  of  our  connection.    Use  the  power- 
according  to  your  own  discretion,  even  to  the  full  amount  of  your 
£500  which  I  have  not  yet  violated,  but  remember  not  to  satisfy 
Newton  till  he  has  disgorged  my  writings,  of  which,  as  you  will; 
easily  believe,  I  have  no  list.    *I  suppose  you  have  sworn  (I  have 
sworn  myseK)  at  my  long  silence  and  delay.     The  jy/e;?a  Epistola. 
I  have  postponed  from  post  to  post,  and  as  I  see  no  end  of 
waiting  (though  I  think  it  will  not  run  beyond  the  end  of  the 
month),  it  seemed  most  prudent  to  dispatch  this  needful  missive. 
I  am  well,  happy,  and  diligent ;  but  your  kind  hint  of  the  London 
house  is  perfectly  superfluous  ;  as  instead  of  the  simng,  we  must 
already  read  the  summer  of  next  year.*    Do  not  be  childish  or 
passionate  ;  trust  me,  I  wish  to  appear  in  England ;  but  it  must 
be  with  my  book  in  my  hand  ;  and  a  book  takes  more  time  in 
making  than  a  pudding.     Adieu.    Will  my  Lady  never  write  ? 

E.G. 

*Since  I  have  another  page,  and  some  leisure  moments,  we  may 
as  well  employ  it  in  friendly  converse  ;  the  more  so,  as  the  greafc 
letter  to  which  I  alluded  is  most  wonderfully  precarious  and  un- 
certain ;  the  more  so  likewise,  as  our  correspondence  for  some  time 
past  has  been  of  an  abrupt,  dark  and  disagreeable  cast.  Let  us 
first  talk  of  Sheffield's  works  ;  they  are  of  two  sorts  :  2^rimo,  two 


148  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1786. 

nymphs,  whom  I  much  desire  to  see ;  the  stately  Maria  and  the 
gentle  Louisa.  I  perfectly  represent  them  both  in  the  eye  of  fancy  ; 
each  of  them  accomplished  according  to  her  age  and  character,  yet 
totally  different  in  their  external  and  internal  forms.  Secundo, 
three  pamphlets ;  pamphlets  I  cry  you  mercy  ;  three  weighty 
treatises,  almost  as  useful  as  an  enquiry  into  the  state  of  the 
primitive  Church  ;  and  here  let  me  justify,  if  I  have  not  before, 
my  silence  on  a  subject  which  we  authors  do  not  easily  forgive. 
The  first,  whose  first  editions  had  seen  the  light  before  I  left 
England,  followed  me  here  in  a  more  compleat  condition  ;  and 
that  Treatise  on  the  American  Trade  has  been  read,  judged, 
approved,  and  reported.  The  second,  on  Ireland,  I  have  seen  by 
accident,  the  copy  you  had  sent  Mr.  Trevor,  who  passed  last 
summer  (85)  in  this  [place].  The  third,  and  in  my  present 
situation  the  most  interesting,  on  the  French  Commerce,^  I  have 
not  yet  seen  by  any  means  whatsoever,  and  you  who  know  what 
orders  you  have  given  to  Elmsley  or  others,  will  best  discern  on 
whom  should  be  laid  the  fault  and  the  blame.*  By  the  bye,  Mrs. 
Trevor  is  now  here  without  her  husband — so  much  the  better — 
and  I  am  just  going  to  see  her,  about  a  mile  out  of  town :  she 
is  judged  elegant  and  amiable ;  but  in  health  and  figure  most 
lamentably  declined  since  last  year.  *But  to  return  to  your  books, 
all  that  I  have  seen  must  do  you  honour,  and  might  do  the  pubHc 
service  ;  you  are  above  the  trifling  decorations  of  style  and 
order,  but  your  sense  is  strong,  your  views  impartial,  and  your 
industry  laudable.  I  find  that  your  American  tract  is  just  trans- 
lated into  German. 

Do  you  still  correspond  with*  Eden  ?  ^    *If  he  could  establish 

'  Lord  Sheffield  did  not  publish  his  Observatiom  on  the  French  Treaty 
and  Commerce.    [S.] 

^  On  August  18,  1787,  the  Right  Hon.  W.  Eden  (afterwards  Lord  Auck- 
land) vras  appointed  Ambassador  Extraordinary  and  Plenipotentiary  to  the 
King  of  Spain ;  but  he  -was  at  this  time  in  Paris,  assisting  the  Dulce  of 
Dorset  in  negotiating  a  Treaty  of  Commerce  with  France.  His  conduct 
in  accepting  from  Pitt  the  mission  to  France  was  severely  condemned  by 
the  old  followers  of  Lord  North.  Among  the  numerous  squibs  which  his 
action  provoked,  the  following  may  be  quoted  : — 

"  A  mere  affair  of  trade  t'  embrace. 
Wines,  brandies,  gloves,  fans,  cambrics,  lace ; 

For  this  on  me  my  Sovereign  laid 

His  high  commands,  and  I  obey'd — 
Nor  think,  my  Lord,  this  conduct  base. 


1780.]         HIS   CONTEMPLATED  VISIT   TO   ENGLAND.  149 

a  beneficial  intercourse  between  the  two  first  nations  in  the 
"World,  I  could  excuse  him  some  little  poUtical  tergiversation. 
At  some  distance  of  time  and  place,  those  domestic  squabbles 
lose  much  of  their  importance  ;  and  though  I  should  not  for- 
give him  any  breach  of  private  friendship  or  confidence,  I 
cannot  much  blame  him  if  he  chose  rather  to  serve  his  family 
and  his  country,  than  to  persevere  in  a  hopeless  and,  as  I 
suspect,  an  unpopular  opposition.  You  have  never  told  me 
clearly  and  correctly  how  you  support  your  inactive  retreat  from 
the  house  of  Commons  ;  whether  you  have  resumed  your  long 
forgotten  taste  for  rural  and  domestic  pleasures,  and  whether  you 
have  never  cast  a  look  towards  Coventrv,  or  some  other  borough 
equally  pure  and  respectable.  In  the  short  space  that  is  left  I  will 
only  repeat  more  distinctly,  that  in  the  present  contemplation  of 
my  work,  June  or  July  of  next  year  is  the  earliest  term  at  which 
I  can  hope  to  see  England* ;  and  if  I  have  a  fit  of  the  Gout — I 
have,  indeed,  been  free  from  the  monster  this  last  twelvemonth ; 
but  he  is  most  arbitrary  and  capricious.  Of  my  own  situation  let 
me  say  with  truth  that  it  is  tranquil,  easy,  and  well  adapted  to 
my  character.  All  enthusiasm  is  now  at  an  end  ;  I  see  things  in 
their  true  light,  and  I  applaud  the  judgment  and  choice  of  my 
retirement. 

You  see  why  I  have  left  a  blank  in  the  first  page  ;  and  when  I 
begun  I  had  no  design  of  going  beyond  it ;  and  now,  unless  I 
have  some  extraordinary  fit  of  diligence  and  zeal,  shall  probably 
wait  till  the  return  of  your  Epistle.  A  word  before  we  part, 
about  the  least  unpleasant  of  my  business  ;  my  library  in  Downing- 
strcet.  Excuse  the  accidental  derangement  ;  I  shall  send  for  no 
more  books,  and  only  beg  you  to  give  them  shelter  in  your 
stinking  parlour  till  my  arrival.  Two  or  three  mornings  will 
suffice  for  a  personal  review,  and  the  subsequent  steps  of  sale  or 

"  Party  were  guilt  ia  sucJi  a  case, 
"When  thus  my  country,  for  a  space, 
Calls  my  poor  skill  to  Dorset's  aid, 

A  mere  affair  of  trade  ! 

"  Thus  Eden,  with  unblushing  face, 
To  North  would  palliate  his  disgrace  ; 

When  North,  with  smiles,  this  answer  made : 
'You  might  have  spar'd  what  you  have  said — 
I  thought  the  business  of  your  place 

A  mere  affair  of  trade  ! '  " 


150  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1787. 

travel  will  most  properly  be  executed  under  my  own  eye.  Ours 
and  the  foreign  papers  announce  the  distress  and  reformation  of 
the  P.  of  W.^  Are  you  one  of  the  Noblemen  who  offer  him  their 
houses  ?  As  papa  is  tenacious  and  poor,  I  suppose  Fox  next 
session  will  celebrate  his  economy,  and  Parliament  will  pay  his 
debts.    Once  more  adieu. 

506. 
To  Lord  SlieffieU. 

Lausanne,  Jan.  20th,  1787. 

*After  some  sallies  of  wrath,  you  seem  at  length  to  have  sub- 
sided in  sullen  silence,  and  I  must  confess  not  totally  without 
reason.  Yet  if  your  mind  be  still  open  to  truth,  you  will  confess 
that  I  am  not  quite  so  black  as  I  appear.  1.  Your  Lordship  has 
shewn  much  less  activity  and  eloquence  than  formerly,  and  your 
last  letter  was  an  answer  to  mine,  which  I  had  expected  some 
time  with  impatience.  Bad  examples  are  dangerous  to  young 
People.  2.  Formerly  I  have  neglected  answering  your  Epistles 
■on  essential,  though  unpleasant,  business  ;  and  the  Res-jmUka  or 
-privata  may  have  suffered  by  my  neglect.*  At  present,  when  you 
have  paid  away  the  £500  of  your  own  creation  in  Gosling's  hands, 
satisfied  Newton  and  Job  (I  do  not  mean  the  most  patient  of 
men),  and  withdrawn  my  writings  from  the  Attorney's  paw,  I  do 
not  recollect  any  matter  of  interest  remaining  in  your  hands  to 
exercise  your  industry,  vex  my  temper,  or  sully  your  dispatches. 
That  sum  of  £500  you  will  find  entire  and  intact  in  Fleet  Street ; 
you  may  exhaust,  but  in  spite  of  my  general  credit  I  hope  you 
will  not  exceed  it. 

*Supposing,  therefore,  we  had  no  transactions,  why  should  I 
"write  so  often  ?  To  exchange  sentimental  compliments,  or  to 
relate  the  various  and  important  transactions  of  the  Republic 
of  Lausanne  ?  As  long  as  I  do  not  inform  you  of  my  death, 
you  have  good  grounds  to  believe  me  alive  and  well :  you 
have  a  general,  and  will  soon  have  a  more  particular,  idea  of  my 
system  and  arrangement  here.  One  day  glides  away  after  another 
in   tranquil   uniformity.      Every  object  must  have  sides  and 

'  In  1787  the  Prince  of  Wales,  after  authorizing  Fox  to  make  a  public 
denial  of  his  rumoured  marriage  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  received  an  additional 
£10,000  a  year,  £101,000  to  pay  his  debts,  and  £20,000  for  the  repair  of 
Carlton  House. 


1787.]  BUILDING  A  GREAT  BOOK.  151 

moments  less  luminous  than  others  ;  but,  upon  the  whole,  the 
life  and  the  place  which  I  have  chosen  arc  most  happily  adapted 
to  my  character  and  circumstances  ;  and  I  can  now  repeat,  at  the 
end  of  three  years,  what  I  soon  and  sincerely  affirmed,  that  never, 
in  a  single  instant,  have  I  repented  of  my  scheme  of  retirement  to 
Lausanne  ;  a  retirement  which  was  judged  by  my  best  and  wisest 
friend  a  project  little  short  of  insanity.  The  place,  the  people, 
the  climate,  have  answered  or  exceeded  my  warmest  expectations  : 
and  I  truly  rejoice  in  my  approaching  visit  to  England.  Mr.  Pitt, 
were  he  your  friend  and  mine,  would  not  find  it  an  easy  task  to 
prevent  my  return. 

3.  And  now  let  me  add  a  third  reason,  which  often  diverted 
me  from  writing ;  namely,  my  impatience  to  see  you  this  next 
summer.  I  am  building  a  great  book,  which,  besides  the  three 
stories  already  exposed  to  the  public  eye,  will  have  three  stories 
more  before  we  reach  the  roof  and  battelments.  You  too  have 
built  or  altered  a  great  Gothic  Castle  with  Baronial  battlements  ; 
did  you  finish  it  within  the  time  you  intended  ?  As  that  time 
drew  near,  did  you  not  find  a  thousand  nameless  and  unexpected 
works  that  must  be  performed  ;  each  of  them  calling  for  a  portion 
of  time  and  labour  ?  and  had  you  not  despised,  nobly  despised,  the 
minute  diligence  of  finishing,  fitting  up,  and  furnishing  the  apart- 
ments, you  would  have  discovered  a  new  train  of  indispensable 
business.  Such,  at  least,  has  been  my  case.  A  long  while  ago, 
when  I  contemplated  the  distant  prospect  of  my  work,  I  gave  you 
and  myself  some  hopes  of  landing  in  England  last  Autumn  ;  but, 
alas  !  when  autumn  grew  near,  hills  began  to  rise  on  hills,  Alps  on 
Alps,  and  I  found  my  journey  far  more  tedious  and  toilsome  than 
I  had  imagined. 

When  I  look  back  on  the  length  of  the  undertaking,  and 
the  variety  of  materials,  I  cannot  accuse,  or  suffer  myself  to 
be  accused,  of  idleness  ;  yet  it  appeared  that  unless  I  doubled 
my  diligence,  another  year,  and  perhaps  more,  would  elapse 
before  I  could  embark  with  my  complete  manuscript.  Under 
these  circumstances  I  took,  and  am  still  executing,  a  bold  and 
meritorious  resolution.  The  mornings  in  winter,  and  in  a 
country  of  early  dinners,  are  very  concise ;  to  them,  my  usual 
period  of  study,  I  now  frequently  add  the  evenings,  renounce 
cards  and  society,  refuse  the  most  agreeable  evenings,  or  perhaps 
make  my  appearance  at  a  late  supper.     By  this  extraordinary 


152  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1787. 

industry,  which  I  never  practised  before,  and  to  which  I  hope 
never  to  be  again  reduced,  I  see  the  last  part  of  my  history 
growing  apace  under  my  hands ;  all  my  materials  are  collected 
and  arranged  ;  I  can  exactly  compute,  by  the  square  foot,  or  the 
square  page,  all  that  remains  to  be  done ;  and  after  concluding 
text  and  notes,  after  a  general  review  of  my  time  and  my  ground, 
I  can  now  decisively  ascertain  the  final  period  of  the  decline  and 
fall,  and  can  boldly  promise  that  I  will  dine  with  you  at  Sheffield- 
place  in  the  month  of  August,  or  perhaps  of  July,  in  the  present 
year  ;  within  less  than  a  twelfthmonth  of  the  term  which  I  had 
loosely  and  originally  fixed  ;  and  perhaps  it  would  not  be  easy  to 
find  a  work  of  that  size  and  importance  in  which  the  workman 
has  so  tolerably  kept  his  word  with  himself  and  the  public.  But 
in  this  situation,  oppressed  with  this  particular  object,  and 
stealing  every  hour  from  my  amusement,  to  the  fatigue  of  the  pen 
and  the  eyes,  you  will  conceive,  or  you  might  conceive,  how  little 
stomach  I  have  for  the  Epistolary  style  ;  and  that  instead  of  idle, 
though  friendly,  correspondence,  I  think  it  far  more  agreeable  to 
employ  my  time  in  the  effectual  measures  that  may  hasten  and 
exhilarate  our  personal  interview. 

About  a  month  ago  I  had  a  voluntary,  and  not  unpleasing 
Epistle  from  Cadell ;  he  informs  me  that  he  is  going  to  print 
a  new  octavo  edition,  the  former  being  exhausted,  and  that  the 
public  expect  with  impatience  the  conclusion  of  that  excellent 
work,  whose  reputation  and  sale  increases  every  day,  &c.  I 
answered  him  by  the  return  of  the  post,  to  inform  him  of  the 
period  and  extent  of  my  labours,  and  to  express  a  reasonable 
hope  that  he  would  set  the  same  value  on  the  three  last  as 
he  had  done  on  the  three  former  Volumes.  Should  we  con- 
clude in  this  easy  manner  a  transaction  so  honourable  to  the 
author  and  bookseller,  my  way  is  clear  and  open  before  ;  in 
pecuniary  matters  I  think  I  am  assured  for  the  rest  of  my  life  of 
never  troubling  my  friends,  or  being  troubled  myself  ;  a  state 
to  which  I  aspire,  and  which  I  indeed  deserve,  if  not  by  my 
management,  at  least  by  moderation. 

In  your  last,  you  talk  more  of  the  French  treaty^  than  of 

'  A  Treaty  of  Commerce  and  Navigation  between  Great  Britain  and 
France  was  signed  at  Versailles  on  September  26,  1786,  and  a  Supplementary 
Convention  was  signed  between  the  same  powers  on  January  15,  1787,  Both 
treaties  were  signed  on  behalf  of  Great  Britain  by  William  Eden. 


1787.]  A  CITIZEN  OF   THE  WORLD.  153 

yourself  and  your  wife  and  family  ;  a  true  English  Quid  nunc ! 
For  my  part,  in  this  remote,  inland,  neutral  country,  you  will  sup- 
pose, that  after  a  slight  glance  on  the  papers,  I  have  neither  had 
the  means  or  the  inclination  to  think  very  deeply  about  it.  As  a 
Citizen  of  the  World,  a  character  to  which  I  am  every  day  rising 
or  sinking,  I  must  rejoyce  in  every  agreement  that  diminishes  the 
separation  between  neighbouring  countries,  which  softens  their 
prejudices,  unites  their  interest  and  industry,  and  renders  their 
future  hostilities  less  frequent  and  less  implacable.  "With  regard 
to  the  present  treaty,  I  hope  both  nations  are  gainere ;  since 
otherwise  it  cannot  be  lasting ;  and  such  double  mutual  gain  is 
surely  possible  in  fair  trade,  though  it  could  not  easily  happen  in 
the  mischievous  amusements  of  war  and  gaming.*  I  am  much 
pleased  with  our  great  patriots  who  write  to  you  for  sense  as 
schoolboys  on  an  exercise  day.  *What  a  delightful  hand  have  these 
great  statesmen  made  of  it  since  my  departure  !  without  power, 
and,  as  far  as  I  can  see,  without  hope.  When  we  meet  I  shall 
advise  you  to  digest  all  your  political  and  commercial  knowledge, 
(England,  Ireland,  France,  America,)  and,  with  some  attention  to 
style  and  order,  to  make  the  whole  a  Classic  book,  which  may 
preserve  your  name  and  benefit  your  Country.  I  know  nob 
whether  you  have  seen  Sir  Henry  Clinton  since  his  return  :  he 
passed  a  day  with  me,  and  seemed  pleased  with  my  reception  and 
place.  We  talked  over  you  and  the  American  War.  Mrs.  Trevor 
passes  the  winter  here :  she  is  pleasing  and  fashionable.  I 
embrace  the  silent  My  Lady  and  the  two  honourable  Misses,  whom 
I  sigh  to  behold  and  admire.     Adieu.     Ever  yours.* 

I  have  three  or  four  things  to  add  of  meaner  importance. 

1.  My  Journey  to  England  costs  me  a  good  servant :  he  has  a 
farm,  a  shop,  and  a  wife  :  absence  from  these  frightens  him,  and 
he  takes  this  opportunity  of  retiring  from  the  domestic  state. 

2.  *Though  I  can  part  with  land,  you  find  I  cannot  part  with 
books  :  the  remainder  of  my  library  has  so  long  embarrassed  your 
stinking  room  that  it  may  now  await  my  presence  and  final 
judgment.* 

3.  All  my  coloured  handkerchiefs  are  worn  out  :  I  wish  My 
Lady  would  get  me  a  couple  of  dozen  of  the  best  sort  from 
Ireland  :  an  elegant  Poplin  would  likewise  be  acceptable  for  a  fur 
Coat.  *Has  the  said  My  Lady  read  a  novel  intitled  Caroline 
de  Lichfield,  of  our  home  manufactm-e  ?   I  may  say   of  ours, 


154  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1787. 

since  Deyverdun  and  myself  were  the  judges  and  patrons  of  the 
Manuscripts.  The  author,  who  is  since  married  a  second  time, 
(Madame  de  Crousaz,  now  Montolieu),  is  a  charming  woman.^  I 
was  in  some  danger.*  Once  more,  bar  a  long  fit  of  the  Gout, 
and  the  historian  will  land  at  Dover  before  the  end  of  July. 
Adieu. 

507. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  June  2nd,  1787. 

*I  begin  to  discover  that  if  I  wait  till  I  could  atchieve  a  just 
and  satisfactory  Epistle,  equally  pleasant  and  instructive,  you 
would  have  a  poor  chance  of  hearing  from  me.    I  will  therefore 

*  Jeanne  Pauline  Poller  de  Bottens,  afterwards  successively  Madame  de 
Crousaz,  and  Madame  de  Montolieu,  was  the  daughter  of  the  Pastor  at 
Lausanne,  and  was  descended  from  an  ancient  family  in  Languedoc  which 
had  emigrated  at  the  time  of  the  Reformation.  She  was  a  voluminous 
writer.  One  of  her  best-known  works  is  a  continuation  of  the  Swiss  Family 
Robinson.  Madame  de  Genlis,  who  claims  to  have  been  tlie  €diteur  of 
Caroline  de  Lichtfield,  tells  the  following  story  of  Gibbon  falling  on  his 
knees  and  proposing  to  Madame  de  Crousaz,  afterwards  Madame  de  Montolieu. 
She  refused  him.  "  M.  Gibbon  prit  un  air  consterne',  et  cependant  il  restait 
a  genoux,  malgre  I'invitation  reite're'e  de  se  remettre  sur  sa  chaise ;  il  e'tait 
immobile  et  gardait  la  silence.  '  Mais,  monsieur,*  re'peta  Madame  de  Crouzas, 
'  relevez-vous  done' — '  He'las !  madame,'  re'pondit  enfin  ce  malheureux  amant, 
'  Je  ne  peux pas*  En  eff'et,  la  grosseur  de  sa  taille  ne  lui  permettait  pas  de 
ee  relever  sans  aide.  Madame  de  Crouzas  sonna,  et  dit  au  domestique  qui 
survint :  '  Eelevez  M.  Gibbon '  "  (Souvenirs  de  F^licie,  p,  279).  Madame  de 
Montolieu,  it  should  be  added,  stated  that  the  anecdote  was  entirely  without 
foundation  (Rossel,  Histoire  Litt^raire  de  la  Suisse,  vol.  ii.  p.  275). 

The  same  story  is  told  in  verse  by  George  Colman  the  younger  in  "  The 
Luminous  Historian  ;  or,  Learning  in  Love  "  (Eccentricities  for  Edinburgh, 
pp.  67-91). 

Caroline,  par  Madame  de  *  *  *,  was  published  at  Lausanne  in  1786. 
At  Paris,  in  the  same  year,  a  new  edition  appeared,  under  the  title  of 
Caroline  de  Lichtfield,  avec  des  corrections  considerables.  It  was  translated 
into  English  by  Thomas  Holcroft,  and  published  by  the  Minerva  Press. 
The  Lausanne  edition  has  on  the  title-page  the  following  lines,  which  may 
allude  to  Gibbon : — 

"  Idole  d'un  coeur  juste  et  passion  du  sage, 
Amitie'  que  ton  nom  soutienne  cet  ouvrage  ; 
Regne  dans  mes  e'crits,  ainsi  que  dans  men  coeur, 
Tu  m'appris  k  connaitre,  k  sentir  le  bonheur." 

(Voltaire,  Melanges  de  Poesies.) 


1787.]  INTENTION  TO  ARRIVE  IN  LONDON.  155 

content  myself  with  a  simple  answer  to  a  question,  which  (I 
love  to  believe)  you  repeat  with  some  impatience  :  "  When  may 
we  expect  you  in  England  ?  "  My  great  building  is,  as  it  were, 
compleated,  and  some  slight  ornaments,  the  painting  and  glazing 
of  the  last  finished  rooms,  may  be  dispatched  without  incon- 
venience in  the  autumnal  residence  of  Sheffield-place.  It  is 
therefore  my  sincere  and  peremptory  intention  to  depart  from 
Lausanne  about  the  20th  of  July,  and  to  find  myself  (ine  trouver) 
in  London  on  or  before  the  glorious  first  of  August.  I  know  of 
nothing  that  can  prevent  it  but  a  fit  of  the  gout,  the  capricious 
tyrant,  who  obeys  no  laws  either  of  time  or  place ;  and  so 
unfortunately  are  we  circumstanced,  that  such  a  fit,  if  it  came 
late  and  lasted  long,  would  effectually  disable  me  from  coming 
till  next  spring ;  since  thereby  I  should  lose  the  season,  the 
monsoon,  for  the  impression  of  three  quarto  volumes,  which  will 
require  nine  months  (a  regular  parturition),  and  cannot  advan- 
tageously appear  before  the  beginning  or  middle  of  May. 

At  the  same  time  do  not  be  apprehensive  that  I  mean  to  play 
you  a  dog's  trick.  From  a  thousand  motives  it  is  my  wish  to 
come  over  this  year  ;  the  desire  of  seeing  you,  and  the  silent  sullen 
My  lady ;  the  family  arrangements,  discharge  of  servants,  which  I 
have  already  made ;  the  strong  wish  of  settling  my  three  youngest 
children  in  a  manner  honourable  to  them  and  beneficial  to  their 
parent.  Much  miscellaneous  matter  rises  to  my  pen,  but  I  will 
not  be  tempted  to  turn  the  leaf.  Expect  me  therefore  at  Sheffield- 
place,  with  strong  probability,  about  the  15th  of  August.*  You 
say  nothing  of  your  final  settlement  with  Newton  :  if  the  Attorney 
refuses  to  give  parchments  for  money  he  must  have  some  bad 
intention.    Adieu.    Yours. 

508. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  July  21st,  1787. 
Dear  Madam, 

After  a  long  silence  which  I  will  no  longer  attempt  to 

excuse,  I  have  the  pleasure   of   informing  you  that  when  you 

receive  this  letter  I  shall  be  on  my  way  to  England,  and  that  I 

hope  to  reach  London  on  or  before  the  9th  of  next  month.     I 

need  not  say  that  by  the  first  post  you  shall  be  apprized  of  my 


156  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1787. 

arrival.  I  bring  over  the  remainder  of  my  history,  and  only 
regret  that  instead  of  running  down  to  Bath,  the  necessary  cares 
of  an  author  will  detain  me  in  the  neighbourhood  of  London  and 
the  press.  But  my  impatience  will  be  alleviated  by  the  con- 
venience of  a  near  and  frequent  intercourse,  and  I  sincerely  hope 
that  you  can  return  the  assurance  which  I  give,  that  I  have  been 
long  happy  and  am  now  well. 

I  am,  My  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

509. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  July  2l8t,  1787. 

*The  20th  of  July  is  past,  and  I  am  still  at  Lausanne  ;  but  the 
march  of  heavy  bodies,  such  as  armies  and  historians,  can  seldom 
be  foreseen  or  fixed  to  a  precise  day.  Some  particular  reasons 
have  engaged  me  to  allow  myself  another  week  ;  and  the  day  of 
my  departure  is  now  (7  believe)  determined  for  Sunday  the  29th 
instant.  You  know  the  road  and  the  distance.  I  am  no  rapid 
English  traveller,  and  my  servant  is  not  accustomed  to  ride  post. 
I  was  never  fond  of  deeds  of  darkness,  and  if  the  weather  be  hot, 
we  must  repose  in  the  middle  of  the  day.  Yet  the  roads  are  in 
general  good  :  between  Sun  and  Sun  the  interval  is  long ;  and, 
barring  the  accidents  of  winds  and  waves,  I  think  it  possible  to 
reach  London  in  ten  or  twelve  days  ;  viz.  on  or  before  the  ninth 
of  August.  With  your  active  spirit,  you  will  scarce  understand 
how  I  can  look  on  this  easy  journey  with  some  degree  of 
reluctance  and  apprehension  ;  but  after  a  tranquil,  sedentary  life 
of  four  years,  (having  lain  but  a  single  night  out  of  my  own  bed,) 
I  see  mountains  and  monsters  in  the  way ;  and  so  happy  do  I 
feel  myself  at  home,  that  nothing  but  the  strongest  calls  of  friend- 
ship and  interest  could  drag  me  from  hence.* 

You  ingeniously  propose  that  I  should  turn  off  at  Sittenbourn, 
and  seem  to  wonder  what  business  I  can  find,  or  make,  for  an 
immediate  residence  in  the  Capital.  Have  you  totally  forgot 
that  I  bring  over  three  quarto  volumes  for  the  press  ?  and  are 
you  ignorant  that  not  a  moment  must  be  lost,  if  we  are  desirous 


1787.]  HIS  ARRIVAL  IN  LONDON.  157 

of  appearing  at  a  proper  season  ?  I  must  ratify  and  sign  my 
agreement  with  Cadell  and  Strahan,  deliver  the  first  part  of 
the  manuscript,  settle  some  preliminaries  with  the  printer  and 
corrector,  revise  the  first  sheets,  procure  some  necessary  books, 
consult  others,  and  set  the  machine  in  motion  before  I  can  secede 
to  Sheffield-place  with  an  easy  mind,  and  for  a  reasonable  term. 
Of  this  be  assured,  that  I  shall  not  be  less  impatient  than  your- 
self, and  that,  of  human  two-legged  animals,  yourself  and  yours 
are  the  first,  though  not  the  sole,  whom  I  shall  wish  to  see  in 
England. 

For  myself,  I  do  not  regret  the  occupancy  of  Downing 
Street ;  ^  in  my  first  visit  to  London,  a  lodging  or  hotel  in  the 
Adelphi  will  be  more  convenient ;  but  I  have  some  anxiety  about 
my  books,  and  must  try  whether  I  can  approach  those  holy  relicks, 
without  offending  the  delicacy  of  an  amiable  Dutchess. 

Our  interview  is  so  near,  that  I  have  little  more  to  add,  except 
a  single  caution  about  my  own  concerns,  in  which  you  will  con- 
fess, that  from  Lovegrove,  and  Winton,  to  Newton,  I  have  been 
generally  unlucky.  If  any  thing  remains,  present  or  future,  it 
must  be  agitated  and  decided  ;  but  all  retrospects  are  useless  and 
painful,  and  we  have  so  many  pleasant  subjects  of  conversation, 
that  all  such  odious  matters  may  be  buried  in  oblivion.  Adieu. 
I  embrace  My  Lady  and  Louisa,  but  I  no  longer  presume,  even  on 

paper,  to  embrace  the  tall  and  blooming  Maria. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

Let  me  find  a  letter  at  Elmsley's,  and  inform  me  of  the 
direction  of  your  agent  Purden.  I  may  possibly  have  a  commission 
for  him. 

510. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Adelphi  Hotel,  August  the  8th,  1787. 

*Intelligence  extraordinary. — This  day  (August  the  7th)  the 
celebrated  E.  G.  arrived  in  the  Adelphi  with  a  numerous  retinue 

1  Lord  Sheffield  had  let  his  house  in  Downing  Street  to  the  Duchess  of 
Gordon.  "  The  Duchess  of  Gordon  will  dance  my  house  in  Downing  Street 
down  "  (Lord  Sheffield  to  William  Eden,  February  27,  1787 :  Auckland  Cor- 
respondence, vol.  i.  p.  405). 


158  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1787. 

(one  Servant).  We  hear  that  he  has  brought  over  from  Lau- 
sanne the  remainder  of  his  history  for  immediate  publication. 
The  post  had  left  town  before  my  arrival.  I  am  pleased,  but 
indeed  astonished,  to  find  myself  in  London,  after  a  journey  of 
six  hundred  miles,  and  hardly  yet  conceive  how  I  had  resolution 
to  undertake  it.  I  find  myself  not  a  little  fatigued,  and  have 
devoted  this  hot  day  to  privacy  and  repose,  without  having  seen 
any  body  except  Cadell  and  Elmsley,  and  my  neighbour  Batt, 
whose  civility  amounts  to  kindness  and  real  friendship.  But  you 
may  depend  on  it,  that  instead  of  sauntering  in  town,  or  giving 
way  to  every  temptation,  I  will  dispatch  my  necessary  work,  and 
hasten  with  impatience  to  the  groves  of  Sheffield-place  ;  a  project 
somewhat  more  rational  than  the  hasty,  turbulent  visit  which 
your  vigour  had  imagined.  If  you  come  up  to  quicken  my 
diligence,^  we  shall  meet  the  sooner  ;  but  I  see  no  appearance  of 
my  leaving  town  before  the  end  of  next  week.  I  embrace,  &c. 
Adieu.* 


511. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Adelphi  Hotel,  August  9th,  1787. 

My  dear  Madam, 

At  length,  after  a  pleasant  journey,  I  again  breathe  the 
air  of  my  native  country  ;  and  though  I  quitted  with  some  regret 
my  friends,  my  house,  my  garden,  my  library  at  Lausanne,  I 
already  find  many  objects  that  compensate  my  losses.  I  reached 
the  Adelphi  Hotel  Wednesday  the  8th  instant,  after  the  departure 
of  the  post.  The  first  arrangements  of  my  litterary  business,  and 
some  social  meetings  will  detain  me  here  till  the  middle  or  end 
of  next  week,  after  which  I  shall  bury  myself  at  Sheffield-place  to 
revise  and  correct.  The  printer  mutters  some  complaints  of  the 
distance,  but  it  is  not  possible  at  this  time  of  year  to  confine 

>  "  I  went  to  London,"  writes  Lord  Sheffield  to  William  Eden  from 
Sheffield  Place,  on  August  22,  1787,  "  for  a  few  days  to  conduct  the  Gibbon 
to  this  place.  The  Gibbon  is  settled  here  till  winter;  he  will  reside  with  us 
in  Downing  Street  in  winter  and  spring.  The  three  quartos  will  appear  in 
the  spring,  but  as  to  remaining  in  this  country,  he  has  not  the  slightest 
notion  of  it.  I  have  not  yet  succeeded  in  infusing  a  proper  political  zeal 
into  him  "  (^Lord  Auchland's  Journal  and  Correspondence,  vol.  i.  pp.  435,  436^. 


1787.]  THE  TWO  MR.   GIBBONS.  159 

myself  to  a  sultry  and  solitary  metropolis.  Adieu,  my  dear 
Madam,  let  me  soon  have  an  account,  and  a  favourable  account, 
of  yourself. 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

512. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Tuesday,  1787. 

Two  lines  to  say  that  you  dine  with  Mrs.  Hanley  Thursday, 
visit  Pall  Mall  between  eight  and  nine  in  the  evening,  and  dine 
on  Friday  with  Lord  L[oughborough].  Lady  L.,  if  agreable, 
will  be  glad  to  see  Maria,  and  to  call  on  her  in  her  carriage. 
All's  well.  Adieu.  I  wish  we  had  My  lady  with  us.  I  am 
impatient  to  see  her. 

513. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Sheffield-place,  Sept.  23, 1787. 

My  deae  Madam, 

I  am  extremely  happy  that  by  Mrs.  Holroyd's  kind 
enquiries  in  my  name,  the  veil  is  at  length  withdrawn,  and  a 
mistake  is  removed  which  has  given  us,  with  an  appearance  of 
reason,  some  mutual  anxiety.  No  one  doubtless  is  less  entitled 
than  myself  to  confound  the  indolence  of  the  pen  with  the  cold- 
ness of  the  heart,  yet  I  must  confess  that  I  was  surprized  and 
grieved,  that  you  should  not  take  the  smallest  notice  of  the  letter 
in  which  I  had  announced  my  arrival  in  England.  Each  post 
encreased  my  uneasiness,  which  was  at  the  same  time  aggravated 
and  soothed  by  the  assurance  from  Mrs.  H.  that  illness  could  not 
be  the  cause  of  your  silence,  and  this  day  was  the  last  which  T 
had  fixed  for  asking  the  favour  of  a  line  of  comfort  and  explana- 
tion. By  this  you  will  understand  that  I  have  never  received 
your  kind  answer  directed  to  me  in  town,  and,  though  the  loss  of 
a  letter  by  the  post  is  a  rare,  and  to  many,  an  incredible  events 
I  can  explain  it  in  this  instance  by  a  singular  concurrence  of 
circumstances.  Two  Hotels  which  bear  the  name  of  the  Adelpbi 
stand  opposite  to  each  other,  and  two  Mr.  Gibbons  were  lodged 


160  GIBBON'S   COERESPONDENCE.  [1787. 

at  the  same  time  in  the  adverse  houses,  as  Lord  Sheffield  perceived 
on  his  coming  up  to  find  me  out.  Your  direction  was  applied 
to  my  rival,  and  as  he  had  already  departed  into  the  country,  his 
letter  must  have  been  sent  after  him,  and  he  alone  is  guilty  for 
not  acknowledging  and  rectifying  the  error. 

I  have  now  passed  some  weeks  with  our  friends  Lord  and 
Lady  Sheffield,  who  wish  me  to  express  in  their  name  every 
sentiment  of  attachment  and  regard ;  they  both  lament  the 
disappointment  of  their  wishes  of  enjoying  your  company  in  this 
place,  and  would  promise  that  during  your  stay,  it  should  not 
be  profaned  by  any  American  rebels,  or  any  fashionable  females 
whose  conduct  may  be  less  calculated  to  edify  than  to  please.  I 
am  here,  very  idle  and  very  busy.  After  building  a  great  house,  a 
thousand  little  alterations,  improvements  and  ornaments  present 
themselves  to  the  architect,  and  besides  the  trouble  of  painting 
and  glazing  some  of  the  last  apartments,  I  have  the  daily  duty  of 
receiving,  correcting,  and  returning  a  printed  sheet  which  is  sent 
me  from  London.  Impatient  as  I  am  to  visit  Bath,  I  must  defer 
my  journey  till  I  am  in  a  great  measure  got  out  of  my  litterary 
brick  and  mortar  ;  and  if  I  can  postpone  it  till  the  beginning  of 
December,  Lord  Sheffield  gives  me  hopes  of  his  company.  The 
moments  I  can  pass  with  you  will  be  some  of  the  most  pleasing  of 
my  life,  and  it  will  give  me  real  concern,  that  I  shall  find  it 
impossible  to  prolong  my  visit  as  I  could  wish,  much  less  to  fix 
my  winter  residence  at  Bath. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Most  truly  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

514. 
To  his  Ste;pmo{her. 

Sheffield-place,  Nov.  11th,  1787. 

Dear  Madam, 

Besides  my  usual  dislike  to  letter-writing  for  which  you 
so  obligingly  account,  I  have  had  an  additional  reason  or  excuse 
for  my  silence  in  the  weekly  dispatches  which  are  transmitted 
from  hence  to  Bath,  and  by  which  you  are  frequently  apprized  of 
my  health  and  good  spirits,  the  only  circumstances  which  I  could 
transcribe  from  this  peaceful  and  uniform  scene.    It  is  with  real 


1787.]  HIS  VISIT  TO  MRS.  GIBBON.  161 

pleasure  that  I  see  the  approaching  period  of  my  journey  to  Bath. 
I  leave  this  place  next  Sunday,  and  as  I  hope  that  a  fortnight  minj 
suffice  for  some  litterary  business  (consulting  books,  &o.)  which 
can  only  be  dispatched  in  town,  I  reckon  with  confidence  on  the 
satisfaction  of  embracing  you  at  the  Belvidere  within  a  month 
from  the  present  time.  As  to  my  old  enemy  the  gout,  it  is  im- 
possible to  answer  for  his  motions,  but  I  have  not  the  slightest 
grounds  to  suspect  him  of  any  hostile  intentions.  Lord  Sheffield 
wishes  to  accompany  me  in  the  journey  and  return,  but  so  many 
obstacles  may  impede  a  man  of  business,  that  I  must  not  depend 
on  him  with  any  degree  of  assurance.  Will  you  be  so  good  as 
to  inform  his  sister  how  much  I  am  obliged  to  her  for  thinking 
so  often  and  so  kindly  of  me  ? 

I  wish  it  were  in  your  power  to  give  me  a  more  favourable 
account  of  your  health,  or  at  least  of  your  strength,  for  I  flatter 
myself  that  it  is  in  the  latter  you  are  chiefly  deficient.  I  am  not 
without  apprehension  that  the  sight  of  a  long-lost  friend  may 
exhaust  your  spirits  by  too  much  painful  pleasure.  Be  persuaded, 
my  Dear  Madam,  that  you  are  the  sole  object  of  my  journey,  that 
I  most  sincerely  request  that  you  will  not  contrive  any  dinners  or 
parties  for  my  amusement,  that  my  time  will  be  most  agreably 
spent  in  your  conversation,  and  that  I  could  wish  to  enlarge  the 
number  of  days  which  my  avocations  in  life  and  litteratm-e  will 
allow  me  to  enjoy  at  Bath.  Do  not  give  yourself  the  trouble  of 
an  answer,  and  expect  a  line  from  town,  as  soon  as  I  can  fix  the 
exact  time  of  my  departure. 

Lord  and  Lady  Sheffield  wish  me  to  convey  in  their  names 
every  wish  and  sentiment  of  friendship. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

515. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Wednesday,  Nov.  27. 

The  assurance  that  neither  giants  nor  dragons  were  to  be- 
feared  between  Sheffield  Place  and  Pall  Mall  had  induced  me  to 
leave  to  your  fancy  or  judgment  the  well-known  circumstances  of 
changing  horses,  alighting  from  the  chaise,  surveying  the  lodging 
(bad  and  dear),  ordering  a  fowl  from  the  Cocoa-tree,  &c.,  &c.,  and 
VOL.  II.  M 


162  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1787. 

I  feel  every  day  the  awkwardness  of  the  six  o'clock  post.  The 
first  evening  I  passed  at  home  and  had  scarcely  dined  when  the 
Poet  Hayley  was  announced  :  he  embraced,  forgave  me,  and  we 
entered  on  a  pleasant  conversation  of  two  hours.  I  mentioned  to 
him  your  Christmas  plan  :  he  is  grateful,  but  seems  to  decline 
it.  However  I  shall  see  him  again,  and  possibly  he  may  fall  in 
your  way. 

You  would  make  me  vain  ;  nor  am  I  less  touched  by  the 
growlings  of  my  lady,  than  by  the  praises  of  the  Maria,  whose 
probable  excursion  I  applaud.  As  yet  I  have  chiefly  attended  to 
my  litterary  concerns,  and  have  only  seen  Crauford,  the  Lucans, 
Sir  Joshua,  &c.  I  have  knocked  without  success  at  Lord  Lough- 
borough's door,  but  shall  dine  with  him  before  the  end  of  the 
week,  perhaps  with  M.  de  Calonne,^  who  is  a  favourite  with  all 
parties.  Pitt  in  the  general  opinion  seems  to  be  the  Hero  of  the 
day,  and  Lord  Lucan,  fresh  from  Paris,  says  that  nothing  can 
equal  the  conscious  shame  of  the  French,  except  their  public 
abhorrence  of  the  Queen,  and  their  wild  resolutions  of  freedom. 
Take  care  of  Severy,^  I  had  rather  he  did  not  go  to  Lewes  :  a  set 
of  drunken  dragoons. 

As  I  may  not  write  again  (do  not  be  furious)  I  can  positively 
say  that  my  departure  for  Bath  is  fixed  for  Saturday  sennight,  and 
that  I  shall  expect  you,  &c.,  on  Thursday  at  latest.  For  the 
possession  of  your  house,  I  believe  the  Dutchess  would  scruple  at 
few  sacrifices  either  pecuniary  or  personal.  Could  you  resist  ?  Do 
not  imitate  my  negligence  in  forgetting  the  herald  John  G.^  He 
will  make  a  great  figure  at  Bath.     Adieu. 

*  Charle8  Alexandre  de  Calonne  (1734-1802)  was  Director-General  of 
Finances  from  1783  to  1787.  By  liis  advice  the  Assembly  of  Notables  was 
convened  on  February  22,  1787.  He  laid  before  it  the  financial  condition  of 
the  kingdom,  and  proposed,  among  other  measures,  a  land  tax,  the  taxation 
of  the  lands  of  the  clergy,  and,  generally,  the  equalization  of  public  burdens. 
So  great  was  the  clamour  against  him,  that  in  April  he  resigned  and  took 
refuge  in  England.  "  I  am  entertained,"  writes  Lord  SheflBeld  to  William 
Eden,  November  2, 1787,  "with  the  reception  Calonne  meets  with  in  London. 
Lately  he  was  the  most  terrible  peculator  "  (^Auckland  Correspondence,  vol.  i. 
p.  444).  He  was  succeeded  by  Cardinal  do  Brienne,  Archbishop  of  Toulouse, 
afterwards  Archbishop  of  Sens. 

*  Wilhelm  de  Severy,  the  son  of  Gibbon's  friends  at  Lausanne,  had,  at 
his  suggestion,  paid  a  visit  to  England. 

*  John  Gibbon,  the  herald,  was  Bluemantle  Pursuivant  at  Arms,  1671- 
1718.     He  died  August  2,  1718. 


1787]  A  MISERABLE  CRIPPLE.  163 

51G. 

To  Lord  Sheffield, 

Monday  afternoon,  1787. 

*I  precipitate  !  I  inconvenience  !  Alas  !  alas  !  I  am  a  poor 
miserable  cripple,  confined  to  my  chair.  Last  Wednesday 
evening  I  felt  some  flying  symptoms  of  the  gout :  for  two 
succeeding  days  I  struggled  bravely,  and  went  in  a  chair  to  dine 
with  Batt  and  Lord  Loughborough  :  but  on  Saturday  I  yielded 
to  my  conqueror.  I  have  now  passed  three  wearisome  days 
without  amusement,  and  three  miserable  nights  without  sleep. 
Yet  my  acquaintance  are  charitable  ;  and  as  virtue  should  never 
be  made  too  difficult,  I  feel  that  a  man  has  more  friends  in  Pall 
Mall  than  in  Bentinck  Street.  This  fit  is  remarkably  painful ; 
the  enemy  is  possessed  of  the  left  foot  and  knee,  and  how  far  he 
may  carry  the  war,  God  only  knows.  Of  futurity  it  is  impossible 
to  speak  ;  bub  it  will  be  fortunate  if  I  am  able  to  leave  town  by 
the  end,  not  of  this,  but  of  the  ensuing  week.  Pity  me,  mag- 
nanimous Baron  ;  pity  me,  tender  females  ;  pity  me,  Swiss  exile,^ 
and  believe  me,  it  is  far  better  to  be  learning  English  at  Uckfield. 
I  write  with  difficulty,  as  the  least  motion  or  constraint  in  my 
attitude  is  repeated  by  all  the  nerves  and  sinews  in  my  knee. 
But*  in  the  daily  papers  *you  shall  find  each  day  a  note  or  bulletin 
of  my  health.  To-morrow  I  must  give  pain  to  Mrs.  G.  Adieu.* 
Caplin's  servant  has  other  offers,  and  grows  impatient  for  a  speedy 
and  final  answer. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

517. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Saturday,  Nov.  30th,  1787. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  must  reluctantly  mention,  what  I  could  still  wish  to 
conceal :  but  the  month  of  December  approaches,  and  I  may  have 
been  already  betrayed  by  the  Sheffield  gazette.      Your  suspicions 

*  M.  Wilhelm  de  Severy. 


164  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [17S7. 

were  but  too  just,  and  both  my  feet  have  been  for  some  days  past 
in  the  iron  fetters  of  the  gout.  This  obstacle  must  retard,  though 
it  shall  not  prevent  my  journey  to  Bath,  and  as  soon  as  I  am  able 
to  travel  I  shall  suuimon  Lord  S.,  who  with  his  daughter  Maria  is 
impatient  to  start.  No  term  can  be  possibly  assigned,  but  I  feel 
with  pleasure  that  the  bitterness  of  the  fit  is  past  or  passing,  and 
the  gouty  tide  now  appears  to  ebb  ;  whether  its  retiring  motions 
will  be  slow  or  rapid,  fluctuating  or  regular,  I  cannot  foresee,  but  I 
wish  you  to  believe  that  my  pain  is  not  a  little  aggravated  by  my 
disappointment.  You  will  excuse  my  brevity,  as  I  cannot  write  in  a 
pleasant  attitude,  but  in  the  course  of  next  week  you  shall  receive 
some  account  of  my  proceedings,  either  from  me  or  Caplen. 
Adieu, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 


518. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Saturday,  Dec.  1,  1787. 

I  resume  the  pen  for  a  few  moments,  and  with  some  difficulty, 
to  say  that  I  am  not  insensible  of  the  complaints,  exclamations, 
projects,  &c.,  of  the  natives  of  Sheffield.  Your  daily  missives 
have  been  uncomfortable,  but  when  things  are  at  the  worst  they 
begin  to  mend,  and  I  flatter  myself  that  the  gouty  tide  is  now 
ebbing.  Last  night  (with  some  foreign  aid)  was  the  best  I  have 
known,  and  this  day  my  pain  is  rather  less  severe.  *What  may  be 
the  future  progress,  whether  slow  or  rapid,  fluctuating  or  steady, 
time  alone  will  determine,  and  to  that  master  of  human  knowledge 
I  must  leave  our  Bath  journey.* — Adieu.  Lord  Guilford  is 
neither  dead  nor  has  been  ill. — The  D[uchess]  of  G[ordon]  is 
in  treaty  for  a  house  in  Piccadilly. — The  public  voice  is  harmony 
and  applause.     Remember  me  to  Severy.    Perhaps  next  week. 

I  hear  this  moment  from  my  landlady,  Mrs.  Crauford,  the 
Gordon  milliner,  that  the  Dutchess  has  absolutely  taken  the 
house,  and  is  removing  without  delay  from  Downing  Street. 
Huzza. 


1787.]  DISARRANGEMENT   OF  HIS  PLANS.  1G5 

519. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Saturday,  8th  December. 

I  thought  we  might  have  safely  depended  on  Caplin's  daily 
diUgence,  but  you  could  fairly  conclude  from  his  silence  that  we 
advance  with  a  fair  wind.  The  venom  of  the  Gouty  Immour  is 
almost  dispeDed,  and  I  am  going  on  to  reduce  the  size  and  recover 
the  strength  of  my  feet.  Mama  cannot  be  more  impatient  than 
myself  for  the  signal  of  weighing  anchor  :  this  unlucky  check  has 
disarranged  all  my  social  and  litterary  projects  :  in  a  lodging 
I  am  destitute  of  a  thousand  comforts  :  my  books  are  few,  my 
society  precarious,  my  days  long  and  often  tedious,  nor  is  any 
thing  less  pleasant  than  to  be  left  solitaiy  and  motionless  while 
the  world  is  flying  round  and  round  me.  In  point  of  kind,  civil, 
assiduous  attendance  of  male  and  female  friends  Lausanne  had 
quite  spoilt  me. 

In  the  course  or  chain  of  my  winter  designs,  I  most  ardently 
wish  to  hasten  the  Bath  journey,  that  I  may  urge  our  family 
settlement  in  Downing  street,  for  I  have  felt  by  experience  the 
difference  between  town  and  country  with  regard  to  the  press. 
But  wishes  are  not  hopes,  nor  are  hopes  equivalent  to  assurances. 
Yet  I  think  (should  no  reverse  of  fortune  take  place)  that  I  can 
promise  to  ascend  my  post-chaise  painfully  enough  either  Friday 
or  Saturday  next,  the  14th  or  15th  instant,  and  therefore,  if  you 
hear  nothing  to  the  contrary,  your  Lordship  cum  mamma  amahili 
may  find  yourself  in  town  the  Wednesday  or  Thursday,  and  we 
will  contrive,  if  I  am  strong  enough,  some  dinner  with  Lord  L., 
Batt,  or  elsewhere.  I  am  much  obliged  to  Severy  for  his  letter 
and  Lausanne  news.  I  hope  he  is  somewhat  less  miserable. 
Adieu,  I  am  tired.  Salutations  to  My  lady,  &c.  Do  you  know 
anything  more  of  the  house  ? 

520. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Deo.  10th,  1787. 

Deae  Madam, 

I  have  the  pleasure  of  informing  you,  that  according  to 
cur  last  arrangements  Lord  S.  comes  to  town  next  Thursday  with 


166  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1787. 

Maria  :  that  on  Saturday  we  set  out  for  Bath,  and  that  on  Sunday, 
about  four  or  five  o'clock,  I  hope  to  have  the  pleasure  of  visiting 
the  Belvidere.  This  gouty  impediment  has  been  most  unseason- 
able and  disarranges  the  whole  chain  of  my  projects  :  but  you 
may  rest  assured  that  I  am  not  rash  or  precipitate  :  the  disorder 
is  leaving  me  in  the  most  gentle  and  regular  manner ;  the  easy 
journey  must  do  me  good  and  cannot  do  me  any  possible  harm, 
and  I  shall  have  the  benefit  of  the  adroit  and  faithful  services  of 
Caplen,  who  accompanies  me.  It  is  only  unlucky  that  my  old 
lodgings  should  be  taken ;  but  your  prime  minister  will  provide 
me  with  others  as  near  as  possible  to  the  sole  object  of  my 
journey. 

I  am.  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 
Depend  on  my  taking  the  utmost  care  of  myself. 


521. 

To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Bath,  December  18th,  1787. 

*Alas  !  alas  !  alas  I  How  vain  and  fallacious  are  all  the  designs 
of  man.  This  is  now  the  18th  of  December,  precisely  one  month 
since  my  departure  from  SheflBeld-place ;  and  it  was  firmly  my 
wish,  my  hope,  my  resolution,  that  after  dispatching  some  needful 
business  in  London,  and  accomplishing  a  pious  duty  at  Bath,  I 
should  by  this  day  be  restored  to  the  tranquil  leisure,  and  friendly 
society,  of  S.  P.  A  cruel  tyrant  has  disconcerted  all  my  plans  ; 
my  business  in  town  has  been  neglected,  my  attendance  at  Bath 
is  just  begun,  and  my  return  is  yet  distant.  I  was  not  a  little 
edified  to  hear  of  some  expressions  of  regret  and  discontent  on 
my  departure ;  and  though  I  am  not  able  to  produce  as  good 
evidence,  you  will  perhaps  believe  that  in  the  solitude  of  a  London 
lodging  I  often  railed  at  the  gout  for  maliciously  delaying  his 
attack  till  I  was  removed  from  a  place  where  my  sufferings  would 
have  been  alleviated  by  every  kind  and  comfortable  attention.  I 
grew  at  last  so  desperately  impatient,  as  to  resolve  on  immediate 
flight,  without  waiting  till  I  had  totally  expelled  the  foe,  and 


1787.]  AN  ACT   OF  DUTY  AT  BATH.  167 

recovered  my  strength.  I  performed  the  journey  with  tolerable 
ease,  but  the  motion  has  agitated  the  remains  of  the  humour.  I 
am  very  lame,  and  a  second  fit  may  possibly  be  the  punishment 
of  my  rashness. 

As  yet  I  have  seen  nothing  of  Bath  except  Mrs.  G. ;  and 
weakness,  as  well  as  propriety,  will  confine  me  very  closely  to  her.* 
I  am  carried  over  the  way  in  a  chair  about  one  o'clock,  maintain 
a  conversation  till  ten  o'clock  in  the  evening,  and  am  then  recon- 
veyed  to  my  lodging.  *Lord  S.,  with  Mrs.  Holroyd  and  Maria, 
dined  with  us  yesterday*  on  the  haunch  of  venison,  but  such  reliefs 
are  not  always  to  be  expected,  and  I  chearfully  perform  an  act. 
of  duty  which  is  necessary  and  cannot  be  long.  I  am  astonished 
to  see  Mrs.  Gibbon  so  well,  and  though  undoubtedly  weaker,  she 
seems  in  the  last  five  years  to  be  very  little  altered  either  in 
mind  or  person.  *We  begin  to  throw  out  hints  of  the  shortness  of 
our  stay,  and  indispensable  business  ;  and,  unless  I  should  be  con-^ 
fined  by  the  gout,  it  is  resolved  in  our  cabinet  to  leave  Bath  on 
Thursday  the  26th,  and  passing  through  Lord  Loughborough's 
and  town,  to  settle  at  Sheffield,  most  assuredly,  before  the  end 
of  the  year.*  Maria,  to  whom  every  object  is  new  and  pleasant,^ 
and  who  begins  to  undraw  the  curtain  of  the  great  theatre, 
wonders  and  almost  murmurs  at  our  impatience.  *For  my  own 
part  I  can  say  with  truth,  that  did  not  the  press  loudly  demand 
my  presence,  I  could,  without  a  sigh,  allow  the  Dutchess  to  reign 
in  Downing  Street  the  greatest  part  of  the  winter,  and  should 
be  happy  in  the  society  of  two  persons  (no  common  blessing)' 
whom  I  love,  and  by  whom  I  am  beloved.*  I  understand  with 
pleasure  and  gratitude  that  with  the  assistance  of  two  Ushers 
(Miss  Firth  and  IMrs.  Moss)  you  have  undertaken  the  care  of 
Severy's  English  studies,  from  whence  I  expect  a  most  rapid 
progress.  I  know  not  whether  yours  in  Trisset  will  be  equal. 
Pray  inform  our  pupil,  that  I  shall  write  from  hence  to  his 
parents,  that  I  am  much  obliged  to  him  for  his  letter,  which  I 
hope  to  answer  in  a  fortnight  at  Sheffield-place. 

*Adieu,  Dear  Madam,  and  believe  me,  with  the  affection  of  a 
friend  and  brother,  ever  Yours.* 


168  GIBBON'S  CORKESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

522. 

To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Bath,  January  4tli,  1788. 

I  congratulate  you  and  myself  on  what  I  now  consider  as 
certain,  the  evacuation  of  Downing  Street.  Col.  FuUarton,  a 
cousin  of  the  Dutchess,  informed  me  yesterday,  that  after  sending 
her  children  I  know  not  where,  perhaps  to  the  parish,  she  had 
indignantly  fled  into  the  country.  By  this  day's  post  I  expect 
an  official  confirmation  from  Lord  S.,  and  as  he  will  probably 
reach  you  as  soon  as  this  letter,  the  communication  will  inform 
him  of  my  intended  motions.  You  will  admire  the  triumphant 
Maria,  and  your  observation  will  soon  discern  whether  it  will 
be  easy  to  brush  the  powder  out  of  her  hair,  and  the  world  out 
of  her  heart,  or  to  shut  her  eyes  after  they  have  been  once  opened 
to  the  light  of  pleasure.  This  excursion  will  render  our  scheme 
still  more  necessary,  and  in  my  letter  from  hence  I  sound  Madame 
de  S.  on  the  subject :  the  more  I  revolve  it,  I  think  the  exchange 
will  be  pleasant  and  beneficial  to  my  English  and  Swiss  friends, 
whose  mutual  advantage  I  shall  have  the  advantage  of  promoting. 
You  have  already  understood  that  my  precipitation  in  leaving 
London  has  been  justly  punished  by  a  second  and  worse  fit  of 
the  gout  and  a  fortnight's  confinement. 

I  now  begin  to  crawl  again  on  two  crutches,  and  my  first 
sally  in  a  chair  will  be  to  return  the  charitable  visits  of  the 
Dutchess  and  her  friend  the  -^therial  of  poor  Lord  North,  &c. 
Were  I  capable  of  listening  to  experience  or  common  sense,  I 
should  remain  here  a  week  or  ten  days  longer ;  but  I  am  so 
impatient  to  leave  this  place  and  to  reach  London  and  S.  P.  that 
I  mean  to  escape  next  Monday :  Tuesday  afternoon  and  all 
Wednesday  will  be  the  least  that  my  litterary  business  in  town 
will  require,  and  I  have  hopes  of  dining  at  S.  P.  on  Thursday  the 
10th  instant,  after  an  absence  twice  as  long  and  ten  times  as 
disagreeable  as  I  expected.  As  I  now  run,  not  from  you,  but  to 
you,  you  will  view  my  rashness  with  indulgence,  and  nurse  my 
infirmities  with  compassion. — Excuse  me  to  Severy  for  not  answer- 
ing his  two  letters,  and  let  him  be  in  readiness  to  receive  me. 

Adieu. 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 


1788.]  HIS  WORK  AND  FRIENDS.  169 

523. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Tuesday,  the  14th  January,  about  1788. 

Andover  five  o'Clock  in  the  afternoon. — Safe,  well,  and 
hungry.  Not  a  single  Lyon  or  Giant  to  be  seen  on  Salisbury 
plain. — Very  odd  ! 

524. 
To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Bentinck  Street,  Thursday,  Feb.  24th. 

The  Gibbon  with  his  friend  Nic  (a  very  proper  companion) 
still  proposes  to  visit  Sheffield  Place,  on  Saturday  next  the  26th 
instant,  but  as  he  travels  slowly  and  prudently  with  his  own 
horses,  they  dine  at  Godstone  and  cannot  reach  the  mansions  of 
bliss  before  the  dusk  of  evening.  The  Gibbon  presume  that  the 
most  amiable  Lara  means  to  allow  him  some  extraordinary  days. 

525. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Downing  Street,  March  1st,  1788. 

My  Dear  Madam, 

As  long  as  it  was  necessary  that  you  should  be  informed 
of  my  motions  and  those  of  the  gout,  my  letters  succeeded  each 
other  with  sufficient  rapidity.  The  establishment  of  my  health 
and  strength  has  allowed  me,  from  these  unnatural  efforts,  to 
sink  into  my  usual  indolence,  but  I  now  begin  to  feel  that  my 
silence  has  lasted  too  long,  and  that  you  may  entertain  some 
doubts  of  my  present  state,  unless  I  assure  you  by  a  line  that  it 
still  continues  easy  and  prosperous.  I  use  with  moderation  the 
society  of  this  great  town,  and  although  I  do  not  lead  a  solitary 
life,  yet  my  principal  attention  is  bestowed  on  my  domestic 
friends,  and  on  the  progress  of  my  work,  which  is  drawing  fast 
to  a  conclusion.  My  own  brevity  Avill  encourage  you  not  to 
fatigue  yourself  by  a  long  letter,  but  I  wish  to  hear  directly  from 


170  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [178S. 

you  and  about  yourself,  the  object  most  truly  interesting  to  your 
filial  friend. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 
E.  Gibbon. 


526. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Downing  Street,  May  28th,  1788. 

Dear  Madam, 

Both  as  an  author  and  as  a  friend  I  am  delighted  with 
your  kind  approbation  :  and  I  enjoy  the  pleasing  assurance  that 
the  perusal  of  my  history  ^  may  sometimes  beguile  a  solitary  hour, 
and  recall  the  historian  still  more  forcibly  to  your  mind.  For  my 
own  part  I  now  feel  as  if  a  mountain  was  removed  from  my 
breast ;  as  far  as  I  can  judge,  the  public  unanimously  applauds 
my  compliment  to  Lord  North,^  and  does  not  appear  dissatisfied 
with  the  conclusion  of  my  work.  I  look  back  with  amazement 
on  the  road  which  I  have  travelled,  but  which  I  should  never 
have  entered  had  I  been  previously  apprized  of  its  length. 

In  your  last  letter  you  express  some  joy  at  the  approach  of 
summer,  as  it  is  connected  with  my  second  visit  to  Bath  which 
I  had  promised  to  make  before  my  departure  for  the  Continent. 
On  my  side  the  promise  will  be  most  chearfully  performed,  and 
in  the  prospect  of  embracing  a  dear  and  valuable  friend  I  shall 
ever  esteem  fatigue  and  expence  as  of  small  account.  The 
Sheffields  leave  town  in  the  beginning  of  next  week  ;  I  must 
continue  some  days  after  them  to  pack  up  my  books  and  dispatch 

'  Vols,  iv.,  v.,  and  vi.  of  the  Decline  and  Fall  were  published  in  April, 
1788. 

*  The  preface  to  the  last  three  volumes  of  the  Decline  and  Fall  of  the 
Roman  Empire  contained  the  following  eulogium  on  Lord  North  :  *'  Were  I 
ambitious  of  any  other  Patron  than  tlie  public,  I  would  inscribe  this  work 
to  a  Statesman,  who,  in  a  long,  a  stormy,  and  at  length  an  unfortunate 
administration,  had  many  political  opponents,  almost  withcut  a  personal 
enemy;  who  has  retained,  in  his  fall  from  power,  many  faithful  and  dis- 
interested friends;  and  who,  under  the  pressure  of  severe  infirmity,  enjoys 
the  lively  vigour  of  his  mind,  and  the  felicity  of  his  incomparable  temper. 
Lord  North  will  permit  me  to  express  the  feelings  of  friendship  in  the 
language  of  truth ;  but  even  truth  and  friendship  should  be  sileut,  if  he  still 
dispensed  the  favours  of  the  Crown." 


1788.]  HORRORS  OF  SHOPPING  AND  PACKING.  171 

some  necessary  business,  and  in  about  a  fortnight  I  could  under- 
take the  journey  to  Bath.  Yet  before  you  resolve,  I  wish  you 
coolly  to  weigh  whether  prudence  should  advise  us  to  gratify  or 
restrain  our  inclination.  In  my  Christmas  visit,  confined  as  I 
was  by  the  gout,  I  could  not  but  observe  how  much  my  presence 
and  your  desire  of  inviting  company  to  amuse  me  deranged  the 
privacy  of  your  life  and  the  distribution  of  your  hours.  Delicate 
health  and  spirits  like  yours  are  agitated  even  by  the  pleasure, 
the  tumultuous  pleasure,  of  an  interview ;  and  that  pleasure  is 
embittered  by  tlie  painful  foresight  of  an  approaching  separation. 
According  to  my  arrangements,  which  it  is  no  longer  in  my 
power  to  break,  I  must  return  to  Lausanne  early  in  the  month  of 
July,  nor  can  I  indulge  my  wishes  at  the  Belvidere  beyond  the 
term  of  a  week.  That  week  is  perfectly  at  your  service,  and 
I  only  hope  to  receive  your  commands  as  soon  as  possible.  Lord 
and  Lady  S.  beg  to  be  remembered  to  you  in  the  kindest  manner. 

I  am.  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 

527. 
To  Lord  Slieffield. 
Hampton  Court,  Wednesday,  June  16th,  three  o'clock. 

Whether  you  mean  to  abuse  or  applaud  me,  you  must  post- 
pone that  pleasure  from  Sunday  the  20th  to  Saturday  the  2Gth. 
I  have  some  literary  accounts  to  settle  before  I  shut  my  shop  for 
some  months,  and  they  have  run,  as  it  commonly  happens,  to  a 
greater  length  than  I  had  expected.  This  delay  happens  likewise 
to  be  very  convenient  to  my  agreeable  companion  Mr,  Nicholls, 
who  salutes  the  whole  Barony  with  proper  respect. 

528. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Downing-street,  Saturday  (June  17th,  1788). 

*I  have  but  a  moment  between  my  return  home  and  my  dressing, 
and  heartily  tired  I  am ;  for  I  am  now  involved  in  the  horrors 
of  shopping,  packing,  &c. ;  yet  I  must  write  four  lines  to  prevent 


172  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

a  growl  and  a  damn,  which  might  sakite  the  arrival  of  an  empty- 
handed  post  on  Sunday.  I  hope  the  whole  caravan,  Christians 
and  pagans,  arrived  in  good  health  at  the  castle  ;  that  the  Turrets 
begin  to  rise  to  the  third  Heaven  ;  that  each  has  found  a  proper 
occupation  ;  and  that  Tuft  ^  enjoys  the  freedom  and  felicity  of  the 
lawn. 

Yesterday  the  august  scene  was  closed  for  this  year. 
Sheridan  surpassed  himself;  ^  and  though  I  am  far  from  considering 
him  as  a  perfect  orator,  there  were  many  beautiful  passages  in 
his  speech,  on  justice,  filial  love,  &c. ;  one  of  the  closest  chains 
of  argument  I  ever  heard,  to  prove  that  Hastings  was  responsible 
for  the  acts  of  Middleton  ;  and  a  compliment,  much  admired,  to 
a  certain  historian  of  your  acquaintance.  Sheridan,  in  the  close 
of  his  speech,  sunk  into  Burke's  arms  ;  but  I  called  this  morning, 
he  is  perfectly  well.*    A  good  Actor  !  ^ 

*I  fear  that  I  shall  not  be  able  to  dine  at  home  a  single  day. 
To-morrow  Severy  and  myseK  go  to  Bushy.  I  hope  to  be  with 
you  by  Sunday  the  22nd  Instant,*  but  I  find  I  have  much  to  do, 
and  the  most  important  business  of  my  Magdalen  farms  is  not 

*  Lady  Sheffield's  lapdog. 

*  "  We  were  kept  in  London  about  twelve  days  by  Mr.  Sheridan's  speeches. 
One  day  would  have  sufficed  me,  who  have  heard  many  long  speeches:  but 
the  ladies  rebelled,  the  Gibbon  supported  them,  and  thus  wo  were  detained 
till  towards  the  middle  of  June  "  (Lord  Sheffield  to  William  Eden,  July  29, 
1788 :  Lord  Auckland's  Journal  and  Correspondence,  vol.  ii.  p.  219). 

'  The  trial  of  Warren  Hastings  began  in  Westminster  Hall  on  February 
13,  1788.  Slieridan's  speech  on  tho  Begums  of  Oudh  was  delivered  on 
June  3,  6,  10,  and  13.  The  trial  was  adjourned  on  June  14  till  the  following 
session.  "  Mr.  Sheridan,"  writes  Horace  Walpole,  June  5,  1788,  "  I  hear,  did 
not  quite  satisfy  the  passionate  expectation  that  had  been  raised ;  but  it  was 
impossible  he  could,  when  people  had  worked  themselves  into  an  enthusiasm 
of  oflfering  fifty — ay,  fifty  guineas  for  a  ticket  to  hear  him."  Macaulay's 
account  of  Sheridan's  knowledge  of  stage-effect,  and  of  his  sinking  back, 
"  as  if  exhausted,  into  the  arms  of  Burke,"  is  based  on  this  letter  of  Gibbon. 
Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  however  (Life  and  Letters,  vol.  i.  pp.  206-219),  gives  a 
different  account.  "  Burke  caught  him  in  his  arms  as  he  sat  down,  which 
was  not  the  least  affecting  part  of  the  day  to  my  feelings,  and  could  not  be 
the  least  grateful  testimony  of  his  merit  received  by  Sheridan.  I  have 
myself  enjoyed  that  embrace  on  such  an  occasion,  and  know  its  value."  In 
his  speech,  as  reported  in  the  Morning  Chronicle  for  June  14,  1788,  Sheridan 
said  that  "nothing  equal  in  criminality  was  to  be  traced  either  in  ancient 
or  modern  history,  in  the  correct  periods  of  Tacitus  or  the  luminous  page  of 
Gibbon."  The  story,  told  by  Mooie  in  his  Memoirs  of  Sheridan,  that  the 
orator  really  used  the  word  "  volundnous,"  is  repudiated  by  Mr.  Eraser  Rae 
{Sheridan,  vol.  ii.  p.  69). 


1788.]  DINNER  WITH  WARREN  HASTINGS.  173 

concluded.  You  know  Hugonin's  method  of  writing  most  when 
there  is  least  occasion  for  it.  I  have  not  had  a  line  from  him 
since  I  sent  the  College  license.  *The  casing  of  my  books  is  a 
prodigious  operation.    Adieu.* 


529. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Downing-street,  June  2l8t,  1788. 

*Instead  of  the  historian,  you  receive  a  short  letter  ;  in  your 
eyes  an  indispensable  tribute.  This  day,  at  length,  after  long 
delay  and  frequent  expostulation,  I  have  received  the  writings, 
which  I  am  now  in  the  act  of  signing,  sealing,  and  delivering, 
according  to  the  lawyer's  directions.*  They  return  to-night  by 
the  Mail  Coach  into  Hugonin's  hands,  from  which  they  will  not 
depart  till  the  money  is  paid.  I  hope  to  receive  it  next  Tuesday  ; 
next  Wednesday  must  be  employed  with  the  Barrels  in  proper 
investments,  and  the  Thursday  I  hope  to  be  at  Sheffield.  *You 
see  my  departure  is  not  postponed  a  moment  by  idleness  or 
pleasure,  but  the  precise  day  still  hangs  on  contingencies,  and 
we  must  all  be  patient,  if  our  wishes  should  be  thwarted.  I 
say  our  wishes,  for  I  sincerely  desire  to  be  with  you.  I 
have  had  many  dinners,  some  splendid  and  memorable,  with 
Hastings  last  Thursday,  with  the  Prince  of  Wales  next  Tuesday,* 
both  by  special  desire.  *But  the  town  empties,  Texier  is  silent, 
and  in  an  evening,  I  desiderate  the  resources  of  a  family  or  a  club. 
Caplen  has  finished  the  Herculean  labour,  and  seven  Majestic 
boxes  will  abdicate  on  Monday  your  hall.  Severy  has  likewise 
dispatched  his  affairs,  and  secured  his  Companion  Clarke,  who  is 
arrived  in  town  ;  but  his  schemes  are  abridged  by  the  inexorable 
rigour  of  Lord  Howe,  who  has  assured  our  great  and  fair  Inter- 
cessors, that  by  the  king's  orders  the  dock-yards  are  shut  against 
all  strangers.  We  therefore  give  up  Portsmouth,  and  content 
ourselves  with  two  short  trips  ;  one  to  Stowe  and  Oxford,  the 
other  to  Chatham ;  and  if  we  can  catch  a  launch  and  review, 
encore  vit-on.  He  (Severy,  not  Lord  Howe)  salutes  with  me  the 
Christians  and  Pagans  of  the  family.     Adieu.     Yom-s.* 


174  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

530. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Downing  street,  Saturday,  June  25th,  1788  (?). 

*According  to  your  imperious  law  I  write  a  line,  to  postpone 
my  arrival  to  Friday,  or  perhaps  Saturday,  but  I  hope  Friday, 
and  I  promise  you  that  not  a  moment  shall  be  wasted. 

And  now  let  me  add  a  cool  word  as  to  my  final  departure, 
which  is  irrevocably  fixed  between  the  10th  and  15th  of  July. 
After  a  full  and  free  enjoyment  of  each  other's  society,  let  us 
submit,  without  a  struggle,  to  reason  and  fate.  It  would  be  idle 
to  pretend  business  at  Lausanne  ;  but  a  compleat  year  will  elapse 
before  my  return.  Severy  and  myself  are  now  expected  with 
some  impatience.*  I  desire  to  see  my  own  house  ;  my  oivii  library  ; 
my  oicn  garden,  whose  summer  beauties  are  each  day  losing 
something.  *I  am  thankful  for  your  hospitable  entertainment  ; 
but  I  wish  you  to  remember  Homer's  admirable  precept : 

"  Welcome  the  coming,  speed  the  parting  guest." 

Spare  me,  therefore,  spare  yourself,  the  trouble  of  a  fruitless 
contest,  in  which  (according  to  a  great  author)  I  foresee  a  certain 
loss  of  time,  and  a  probable  loss  of  temper.  The  Petersfield 
business  is  terminated,  and  I  have  received  the  money  ;  but  Barrel 
will  not  come  to  town  from  Richmond.  I  believe  we  shall  have 
both  Craufurd  and  Ilugonin  at  Sheffield-place.     Adieu.* 

531. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Sheffield  place,  June  29th,  1788. 

My  deaeest  Madam, 

I  must  indeed  be  incorrigible,  since  I  could  delay  an 
answer  to  your  last  kind  and  generous  letter  :  but  you  will  again 
■exercise  that  kind  indulgence,  nor  shall  I  aggravate  my  old 
offence  by  a  formal  and  foolish  apology.  I  am  now  at  Sheffield- 
place  preparing  for  my  departure,  which  is  only  delayed  by  an 
excursion  of  my  young  friend  to  Oxford  and  perhaps  to  Bath, 
in  which  case  he  will  certainly  request  of  Mrs.  Holroyd  the  favour 
of  presenting  him  to  you.     The  Sheffields  have  not  been  so  firm 


1788.]  POSSIBLE  SALE  OF  BERITON.  175 

and  reasonable  as  yourself,  and  in  the  bitter  mixture  of  our  last 
interview  I  strongly  feel  the  propriety  of  your  choice. — I  projx)se 
setting  out  between  the  10th  and  ISth  of  next  month,  and,  as 
long  as  the  journey  can  inspire  you  with  the  smallest  doubt  or 
apprehension,  you  may  depend  on  hearing  punctually  from  me. 
After  I  subside  in  the  calm  of  a  Lausanne  life,  my  diligence  will 
probably  be  relaxed  :  yet  I  hope  more  than  I  dare  promise. 

With  Lord  Sheffield's  advice  I  begin  to  entertain  some 
thoughts  of  disposing  of  Buriton.  A  landed  Estate,  to  me  an 
useless  incumbrance,  is  attended  with  many  drawbacks  and 
expences  :  and  as  several  rich  neighbours.  Lord  Egremont,  Lord 
Stawell,  and  Mr.  Bonham  are  eager  for  the  purchase,  it  is  probable 
that  while  I  diminish  my  cares,  I  may  almost  double  my  income. 
Before  any  serious  steps  are  taken  in  the  business,  your  ease 
and  interest  will  be  first  consulted,  and  as  I  propose  leaving  a 
considerable  part  of  the  purchase  money  on  the  Estate,  your 
jointure  may  be  secured  on  the  same  kinds  as  firmly  as  before. 
Lord  Sheffield,  in  whose  honour  and  abilities  you  have  a  perfect 
confidence,  will  correspond  with  you  on  the  subject,  and  you  may 
be  assured  that  nothing  shall  be  done  without  your  full  and 
chearful  approbation.  Lord  and  Lady  Sheffield  beg  me  to  com- 
municate in  their  name  all  the  wishes  of  regard  and  friendship. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.   GiBBOK". 

532. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Sheffleld-place,  July  the  18th,  1788. 

Mr  DEAR  Madam, 

A  kind  and  generous  behaviour  is  what  I  always  expect 
from  you  ;  and  your  obliging  condescension  with  regard  to 
Buriton,  the  sale  of  which  would  place  me  in  so  desirable  a 
situation,  excites  rather  gratitude  than  surprize  in  my  breast.  I 
agree  with  you  in  wishing  to  refer  the  detail  of  this  business  to 
your  correspondence  with  Lord  Sheffield,  who  will  weigh  every 
circumstance  and  every  objection,  who  will  consider  in  the  first 
place  your  satisfaction,  and  my  interest  in  the  second.  Let  me 
only  say  that  the  idea  of  a  Mortgage  was  partly  for  your  security 


176  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

and  partly  from  an  apprehension  of  trusting  my  whole  fortune  to 
the  public  credit ;  that  such  an  investment  of  money  unites,  when 
it  is  carefully  made,  the  solidity  of  land  with  the  clear  ready 
payment  of  the  funds,  and  that  I  am  not  less  averse  than  yourself 
to  any  connection,  open  or  clandestine,  with  the  member  for 
Petersfield. 

To-morrow  I  shall  leave  this  place,  where  I  have  been  detained 
much  longer  than  I  intended  by  an  indisposition  of  poor  Severy 
which  prevented  him  from  waiting  on  you  at  Bath.  I  dine  to- 
morrow at  Tunbridge-Wells  with  Lord  North,  reach  Dover 
Sunday,  pass  the  water,  if  possible,  Monday,  and  repose  myself  at 
Lausanne  about  Wednesday  sevennight  the  30th  instant.  You 
are  too  well  acquainted  with  the  World  and  with  me  not  to  smile 
at  the  report  of  my  approaching  marriage,  of  which  you  might  be 
sure  of  having  the  earliest  and  most  direct  information.  Cadell 
is  too  discreet  to  have  opened  his  mouth  on  a  subject,  on  which 
for  particular  reasons  we  had  mutually  promised  secrecy.  The 
public,  where  it  costs  them  nothing,  are  extravagantly  liberal ;  yet 
I  will  allow  with  Dr.  Johnson  "  that  booksellers  in  this  age  are 
not  the  worst  patrons  of  litterature." 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

533. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  July  30, 1788. — Wednesday,  3  o'clock. 

*I  have  but  a  moment  to  say,  before  the  departure  of  the  post, 
that,  after  a  very  pleasant  journey,  I  arrived  here  about  half  an 
hour  ago ;  that  I  am  as  well  arranged,  as  if  I  had  never  stirred 
from  this  place  ;  and  that  dinner  on  the  table  is  just  announced. 
Severy  I  dropt  at  his  country-house  about  two  leagues  off.  I 
just  saluted  the  family,  who  dine  with  me  the  day  after  to- 
morrow, and  return  to  town  for  some  days,  I  hope  weeks,  on  my 
account.  The  son  is  an  amiable  and  grateful  Youth ;  and  even 
this  journey  has  taught  me  to  know  and  to  love  him  still  better. 
My  satisfaction  would  be  compleat,  had  I  not  found  a  sad  and 
serious  alteration  in  poor  Deyverdun ;  but  thus  our  joys  are 
checkered  I     I  embrace  all ;  and  at  this  moment  feel  the  last  pang 


1788.]  RETURN  TO  LAUSANNE.  177 

of  our  parting  at  Tunbridgc.  Convey  this  letter  or  information, 
without  delay,  from  Sheffield-place  to  Bath.  In  a  few  days  I 
shall  write  more  amply  to  both  places,* 

534. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  August  the  16tb,  1788. 

Dear  Madam, 

The  day  and  indeed  the  moment  of  my  arrival  in  this 
place  I  announced  the  event  by  a  short  missive  to  Sheffield-place, 
and  desired  that  the  intelligence  might  be  forwarded  without  delay 
to  the  Belvidere.  The  perils  of  the  ocean  and  the  road,  imaginary 
perils,  are  now  over,  and  I  am  again  seated  in  the  elegant  repose 
of  my  library  and  garden  :  free  to  enjoy  all  the  pleasures  of 
study,  my  first  pleasures,  but  no  longer  chained  to  the  regular 
performance  of  a  laborious  task.  At  this  time  of  the  year  small 
as  well  as  great  cities  are  emptied  of  their  most  dignified 
inhabitants  :  yet  if  I  were  not  rather  disposed  to  a  sedentary  life, 
I  could  find  in  the  town  and  adjacent  country  what  Mr.  Christie  (?) 
calls  a  very  respectable  vicinage.  But  their  names  and  characters 
would  be  uninteresting  to  you,  and  with  the  best  intentions  a 
correspondence  with  a  distant  friend  must  degenerate  into  mutual 
questions  and  answers  concerning  each  other.  The  only  person 
here  with  whom  you  are  acquainted,  poor  Deyverdun,  is,  I  much 
fear,  in  a  state  of  decline,  though  I  hope  not  of  actual  danger  : 
tbat  would  indeed  be  a  loss. 

Present  my  kindest  remembrance  to  Mrs.  Holroyd,  and  if  they 
are  with  you,  to  the  Goulds.  I  lament  that  I  never  saw  them 
during  my  stay  in  England. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

535. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

October  1,  1788. 

*After  such  an  act  of  vigour  as  my  first  letter,  composed, 
finished,  and  dispatched  within  half  an  hour  after  my  landing, 
while  the  dinner  was  smoaking  on  the  table,  your  knowledge  of 
VOL.  II.  K 


178  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

the  animal  must  have  taught  you  to  expect  a  proportionable 
degree  of  relaxation  ;  and  you  will  be  satisfied  to  hear,  that,  for 
many  "Wednesdays  and  Saturdays,  I  have  consumed  more  time 
than  would  have  sufficed  for  the  Epistle,  in  devising  reasons  for 
procrastinating  it  to  the  next  post.  At  this  very  moment  I  begin 
so  very  late,  as  I  am  just  going  to  dress,  and  dine  in  the  Country, 
that  I  can  take  only  the  benefit  of  the  date,  October  the  first,  and 
must  be  content  to  seal  and  send  my  letter  next  Saturday. 

October  the  4:th. 

Saturday  is  now  arrived,  and  I  much  doubt  whether  I  shall 
have  time  to  finish.  I  rose,  as  usual,  about  seven  ;  but  as  I  knew 
I  should  have  so  much  time,  you  know  it  would  have  been 
ridiculous  to  begin  any  thing  before  Breakfast.  When  I  returned 
from  my  breakfast-room  to  the  library,  unluckily  I  found  on  the 
table  some  new  and  interesting  books,  which  instantly  caught 
my  attention  ;  and  without  injuring  my  correspondent,  I  could 
safely  bestow  a  single  hour  to  gratify  my  curiosity.  Some  things 
I  found  in  them  insensibly  led  me  to  other  books,  and  other 
enquiries  ;  the  morning  has  stolen  away,  and  I  shall  be  soon 
summoned  to  dress  and  dine  with  the  two^Severys,  father  and  son, 
who  are  returned  from  the  Country  on  a  disagreeable  errand,  an. 
illness  of  Madame,  from  which  she  is,  however,  recovering.  Such 
is  the  f aitlif ul  pictm-e  of  my  mind  and  manners,  and  from  a  single 
day  clisce  omnes. 

After  having  been  so  long  chained  to  the  oar,  in  a  splendid 
galley  indeed,  I  freely  and  fairly  enjoy  my  liberty  as  I  promised 
in  my  preface ;  range  without  controul  over  the  wide  expanse 
of  my  library  ;  converse,  as  my  fancy  prompts  me,  with  poets 
and  historians,  philosophers  and  Orators,  of  every  age  and 
language ;  and  often  indulge  my  meditations  in  the  invention 
and  arrangement  of  mighty  works,  which  I  shall  probably  never 
find  time  or  application  to  execute.  My  garden,  herceau,  and 
pavillion  often  varied  the  scene  of  my  studies  ;  the  beautiful 
weather  which  we  have  enjoyed  exhilarated  my  spirits,  and  I 
again  tasted  the  wisdom  and  happiness  of  my  retirement,  till  that 
happiness  was  interrupted  by  a  very  serious  calamity,  which  took 
from  me,  for  above  a  fortnight,  all  thoughts  of  study,  of  amuse- 
ment, and  even  of  correspondence.  I  mentioned  in  my  first  letter 
the  uneasiness  I  felt  at  poor  Deyverdun's  declining  health,  how 


1788.]  ILLNESS  OF  DEYVERDUN.  179 

much  the  pleasure  of  my  life  was  embittered  by  the  sight  of  a 
suffering  and  languid  friend.  The  joy  of  our  meeting  appeared 
at  first  to  revive  him  ;  and,  though  not  satisfied,  I  began  to  think, 
at  least  to  hope,  that  he  was  every  day  gaining  ground  ;  when, 
alas !  one  morning  I  was  suddenly  recalled  from  my  berccau  to 
the  house,  with  the  dreadful  intelligence  of  an  Apoplectic  stroke  ; 
I  found  him  senseless  :  the  best  assistance  was  instantly  collected  ; 
and  he  had  the  aid  of  the  genius  and  experience  of  Mr.  Tissot, 
and  of  the  assiduous  care  of  an  ordinary  Physician,  who  for  some 
time  scarcely  quitted  his  bedside  either  night  or  day.*  You  will 
understand  his  danger  when  I  recapitulate  the  operations  of  a  few 
hours — leeches,  six  bleeding  vomits,  purges,  clysters,  blisters  to  his 
thighs,  warm  baths,  and  mustard  to  his  feet.  *While  I  was  in 
momentary  dread  of  a  relapse,  with  a  confession  from  his  physicians 
that  such  a  relapse  must  be  fatal,  you  will  feel  that  I  was  much 
more  to  be  pitied  than  my  friend.  At  length,  Art  or  Nature' 
triumphed  over  the  enemy  of  life.  I  was  soon  assm-ed  that  all 
immediate  danger  was  past :  and  now  for  many  days  I  have  had 
the  satisfaction  of  seeing  him  recover,  though  by  slow  degrees,  his 
health  and  strength,  his  sleep  and  appetite.  He  now  walks  about 
the  garden,  and  receives  his  particular  friends,  but  has  not  yet 
gone  abroad.  His  future  health  will  depend  very  much  upon  his 
own  prudence  :  but,  at  all  events,  this  has  been  a  very  serious 
warning ;  and  the  slightest  indisposition  will  hereafter  assume  a 
very  formidable  aspect. 

But  let  us  turn  from  this  melancholy  subject. — The  man  of 
the  people  ^  escaped  from  the  tumult,  the  bloody  tumult  of  the 
Westminster  Election,'^  to  the  lakes  and  mountains  of  Switzerland, 
and  I  was  informed  that  he  was  arrived  at  the  Lyon  d'Or. 
I  sent  a  compliment  ;  he  answered  it  in  person;*  we  returned 
together  to  the  Inn,   brought  away  the  fair  Mrs.  Armstead,^ 

1  C.  J.  Fox. 

^  In  1788,  on  a  by-election  caused  by  Lord  Hood's  acceptance  of  ofHce 
as  one  of  the  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty,  Lord  John  Townshend  won 
the  seat  against  Hood.  In  Bond  Street  there  was  a  battle  between  Lord 
Hood's  sailors  and  the  Irish  chairmen  and  butcher-boys.  Several  were 
killed  and  wounded. 

*  Charles  James  Fox  married  Elizabeth  Bridget  Cane,  otherwise  Mrs. 
Armitstead,at  Wyton,  Huntingdonshire,  on  September  28, 1795.  She  survived 
her  husband.  In  1799,  on  his  fiftieth  birthday  (January  24),  Fox  addressed 
to  her  the  following  lines : — 


180  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

*and  settled  at  my  house  for  the  remainder  of  the  day.  I  have 
eat  and  drank,  and  conversed  and  sat  up  all  night  with  Fox  in 
England  ;  but  it  never  has  happened,  perhaps  it  never  can  happen 
again,  that  I  should  enjoy  him  as  I  did  that  day,  alone,*  for  bis 
fair  Companion  was  a  cypher,*  from  ten  in  the  morning  till  ten 
at  night.  Poor  Deyverdun,  before  his  accident,  wanted  spirits 
to  appear,  and  has  regretted  it  since.  Our  conversation  never 
flagged  a  moment ;  and  he  seemed  thoroughly  pleased  with  the 
place  and  with  his  Company.  We  had  little  politicks  ;  though 
he  gave  me,  in  a  few  words,  such  a  character  of  Pitt,  as  one  great 
man  should  give  of  another  his  rival :  much  of  books,  from  my 
own,  on  which  he  flattered  me  very  pleasantly,  to  Homer  and  the 
Arabian  nights ;  much  about  the  country,  my  garden  (which  he 
understands  far  better  than  I  do),  and,  upon  the  whole,  I  think 
he  envies  me,  and  would  do  so  were  he  Minister.  The  next 
morning  I  gave  him  a  guide  to  walk  him  about  the  town  and 
oountry,  and  invited  some  company  to  meet  him  at  dinner.  The 
following  day  he  continued  his  journey  to  Berne  and  Zurich,  and  I 
have  heard  of  him  by  various  means.  The  people  gaze  on  him  as 
a  prodigy,  but  he  shows  little  inclination  to  converse  with  them.* 
The  wit  and  beauty  of  his  Companion  are  not  sufficient  to  excuse 
the  scandalous  impropriety  of  shewing  her  to  all  Europe,  and  you 
will  not  easily  conceive  how  he  has  lost  himself  in  the  public 
opinion,  which  was  already  more  favourable  to  his  Rival.  Will 
Eox  never  know  the  importance  of  character  ? 

Far  different  has  been  the  conduct  and  success  of  *our  friend 
Douglas  ;  ^  he  has  been  curious,  attentive,  agreeable  ;  and  in  every 

"  Of  years  I  have  now  half  a  century  past. 
And  none  of  tlie  fifty  so  blessed  as  the  last. 
How  it  happens  my  troubles  thus  daily  should  cease, 
And  my  happiness  thus  with  my  years  should  increase, 
This  defiance  of  nature's  more  general  laws 
You  alone  can  explain,  who  alone  are  the  cause.'* 

'  Sylvester  Douglas,  afterwards  Lord  Glenbervie  (1743-182.3),  who 
married,  in  September,  1789,  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  of  Lord  North.  He 
■was  educated  at  Leyden  as  a  doctor,  a  circumstance  to  which  Sheridan 
alludes  in  the  lines — 

"  Glenbervie,  Glenbervie, 
What's  good  for  the  scurvey? 
For  ne'er  be  your  old  trade  forgot." 

He  became  a  banister,  reported  in  the  King's  Bench,  and  was  made  a  K.C. 
After  his  marriage  he  left  the  Bar  for  a  political  career,  and  held  several 
minor  appointments. 


1788.]  INSANITY  OF  GEORGE  III.  181 

place  where  he  has  resided  some  days,  he  has  left  acquaintance 

who  esteem  and  regret  him  :  I  never  knew  so  clear  and  general  an 

impression. 

After  this  long  letter  I  have  yet  many  things  to  say,  though 

none  of  any  pressing  consequence.     I  hope  you  are  not  idle  in 

the  deliverance  of  Buriton,  though  the  late  events  and  edicts  in 

France  begin  to  reconcile  me   to  the  possession  of  dirty  acres. 

What  think  you  of  Necker  ^  and  the  States  generals  ?     Are  not 

the  public  expectations  sanguine  ?     Adieu.     I  will  write  soon  to 

My  Lady  separately,  though  I  have  not  any  particular  subject  for 

her  ear. 

Ever  yours,* 

E.  Gibbon. 

536. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Nov.  29,  1788. 
*As  I  have  no  Correspondents  but  yourself,  I  should  have  been 
reduced  to  the  stale  and  stupid  communications  of  the  papers,  if 
you  had  not  most  gloriously  dispatched  me  a  sketch  of  the*  strange 
revolution  that  three  Kingdoms  should  depend  on  the  brain  of 
one  man  !  ^    *In  so  new  a  case  the  Salus  populi  must  be  the  first 

•  Brienne  retired  to  Italy  in  August,  1788,  and  Necker  was  recalled  iu' 
the  same  month.  He  at  once  took  steps  for  summoning  the  States-General, 
which  met  at  Versailles,  May  4,  1789. 

*  In  the  summer  of  1788  George  III.  showed  symptoms  of  mental  de- 
rangement; but  he  had  signed  a  warrant  for  tlie  further  prorogation  of 
Parliament  from  September  25  to  November  20.  In  that  interval  he  grew 
rapidly  worse,  and  was  placed  under  restraint.  The  evidence  of  the  king's 
physicians  was  laid  before  the  Privy  Council  and  Parliament,  and  a  motion 
was  made  in  the  Lower  House  for  a  committee  to  search  for  precedents  of 
proceedings  in  the  case  of  the  interruption  or  suspension  of  the  royal 
authority.  Pitt,  on  December  16,  1788,  moved  three  resolutions :  (1)  that 
tbo  personal  exercise  of  the  royal  authority  was  interrupted;  (2)  that  the 
two  Houses  have  the  right  to  supply  this  defect  of  the  royal  authority ;  (3) 
that  it  was  necessary  to  determine  the  means  by  which,  during  the  continuance 
of  the  king's  incapacity,  the  royal  assent  should  be  given  to  bills  passed  by 
the  two  Houses.  The  resolutions  were  carried  in  both  Houses.  The  plan  of 
a  regency  was  then  submitted  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and  five  resolutions 
embodying  the  scheme  were  proposed  and  carried  in  January,  1789.  On 
February  5,  1789,  the  Regency  Bill  was  introduced  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  carried,  and  sent  up  to  the  Lords.  It  was  still  under  discussion 
when,  on  February  19,  the  Lord  Chancellor  announced  the  king's  conva- 
lescence, and  further  proceedings  were  suspended. 


182  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

law  ;  and  any  extraordinary  acts  of  the  two  remaining  branches 
of  the  Legislature  must  be  excused  by  necessity,  and  ratified  by 
general  consent.*  Yet  I  cannot  any  more  than  yourself  under- 
stand this  speedy  and  peremptory  sentence  of  the  Medical  tribe. 
The  apprehension  or  rather  hope  of  his  death  may  admonish  the 
reigning  ministers  not  to  irritate  the  heir  apparent :  otherwise, 
since  they  have  a  Majority,  what  should  prevent  them  from 
shackling  him  with  a  Counsel,  or  from  tacking  to  the  address  of 
support  a  request  that  he  would  not  change  his  servants  ?  They 
have  the  confidence  (aye  growl)  of  the  Country  and  of  Europe  : 
by  them^  I  mean  Pitt.  *Till  things  are  settled,  I  expect  a  regular 
Journal. 

From  kingdoms  I  descend  to  farms,*  and  the  latter  in  a  selfish 
consideration  are  not  the  least  important  and  interesting.  You 
seem  to  have  made  a  considerable  progress  in  the  Buriton  affair, 
since  you  would  not  have  fixed  the  price  without  a  careful  survey 
«,nd  valuation  of  each  particular  founded  on  your  own  judgement 
•and  that  of  some  able  professor.  You  do  not  however  mention 
that  you  have  employed  any  such  person.  I  submit  to  your 
science,  but  I  cannot  say  that  I  am  fond  of  this  mode  of  auctions  : 
besides  the  publicity,  which  on  this  occasion  may  be  dangerous, 
you  expose  yourself  either  to  let  the  estate  go  for  an  inadequate 
price  or  to  an  improper  purchaser ;  or  else  by  purchasing  it  in, 
you  incur  the  expences,  tax,  &c.,  to  a  large  amount.  Since  we 
know  the  persons  whom  Buriton  best  suits,  suppose  Bonham, 
Lords  Stawell,  and  Egremont,  might  not  the  same  end  be  answered 
"with  less  inconvenience  by  writing  at  the  same  time  a  public 
circular  letter  to  each,  and  desiring  that  by  a  certain  day  they 
would  send  in  sealed  proposals  ?  Would  they  not  have  the  same 
inducement  to  bid  against  one  another  ?  Upon  the  whole  the 
18,000  pounds  would  make  me  happy  for  life.  Yet  I  would  not 
proceed  hastily  in  this  momentous  business.  What  is  the  motive 
of  Hugonin's  sudden  migration,  is  it  health,  distress,  fancy  ? 
Where  does  he  settle  ?  Who  will  take  care  of  my  affairs  ?  A 
year's  rent  is  now  due,  besides  some  arrears. 

I  have  written  to  my  two  old  Ladies  without  receiving 
answers.  What  are  your  accounts  from  Bath  ?  I  hope  you 
have  satisfied  her  about  the  sale  of  Buriton,  which  I  would 
much  sooner  delay  than  give  her  any  uneasiness.  I  wish  we 
had  a  correspondent  at   Stamford  (that  Attorney  whose  name 


1788.]  DEATH  OF  HUGONIN.  183 

I  have  forgot,  who  called  upon  me  in  Downing  Street)  to  give 
you  notice  in  case  it  should  please  Almighty  God,  &c. — Dey- 
verdun  is  not  worse.  Yet  I  much  doubt  whether  you  will  see 
him  next  year.  Do  you  still  persist  ?  Thinking  as  you  do,  I  feel 
the  force  of  a  certain  objection,  and  must  own  that  a  small 
circle  is  often  more  dangerous  than  a  large  one.  I  likewise  fear 
for  yourself  the  want  of  occupation  in  winter,  and  am  now 
apprehensive  of  the  views  of  Parliament,  office,  &c.,  that  may 
open  themselves  under  a  new  and  friendly  reign.  As  soon  as 
you  are  absolufeli/  determined  let  me  know  ;  as  the  arrangement 
of  a  proper  house  would  not  be  easy. 

The  Severys  are  well  and  all  impatient  to  see  you.  I  have 
passed  three  weeks  with  them  at  Kolle,  as  comfortably  as  at  S.P. : 
we  made  a  tour  to  Geneva.  The  youth  is  perfectly  reconciled  to 
his  little  Country.  If  My  Lady,  in  the  paradise  of  Brighton,  could 
find  leisure  for  a  line,  it  would  be  gracious.    Adieu. 

537. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Dec.  13, 1788. 

Poor  Hugonin  !  I  can  assure  you  that  my  thoughts,  my  first 
thoughts  at  least  when  I  read  your  letter,  turned  much  more  on 
himself.  I  knew  him  from  my  youth  :  he  was  an  honest  useful 
friend,  and  though  he  could  never  be  much  of  a  companion  to  me, 
I  always  loved  and  esteemed  him.  His  death  is  a  loss  if  an 
auction  at  Petersfield  was  ever  an  advisable  measure.  You  have 
considered  and  must  have  determined  before  this  can  reach  you. 
But  if  it  be  not  too  late,  revolve  the  advantages  and  inconveniences 
of  auctions. 

Buriton  is  no  elegant  villa  which  may  catch  the  eye  and  fancy 
of  a  stranger  ;  it  is  an  heap  of  dirty  acres  which  can  only  derive 
their  extraordinary  value  from  local  merit.  Will  any  man  give 
so  much  as  Mr.  Bonham  and  Lord  Stawell,  and  in  that  case  would 
not  a  private  treaty  with  them  be  more  easy  and  effectual  ?  I 
again  repeat  that  Mrs.  Gibbon  must  be  perfectly  satisfied.  I 
hope  you  will  not  let  it  go  under  £18,000.  We  once  talked  of 
twenty. 

■*0f  public  affairs  I  can  only  hear  with  curiosity  and  wonder  : 
careless  as  you  may  think  me,  I  feel  myself  deeply  interested. 


184  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1788. 

You  must  now  write  often ;  make  Miss  Firth  copy  any  curious 
fragments ;  and  stir  up  any  of  my  well-informed  acquaintance^ 
Batt,  Douglas,  Adam,  perhaps  Lord  Loughborough,  &c.,  to  corre- 
spond with  me  ;  I  ivill  answer  them. 

We  are  now  cold  and  gay  at  Lausanne.  The  Severys  came  to 
town  Yesterday.  I  saw  a  good  deal  of  Lords  Malmsbury  ^  and 
Beauchamp  and  their  Ladies  ;  Ellis,^  of  the  EolUad,  was  with 
them  ;  I  like  him  much  :  I  gave  them  a  great  dinner. 
Adieu  for  the  present.  Deyverdun  is  not  worse.* 
Will  you  direct  Richard  Andrews  to  collect  and  remitt  my 
year's  rent  which  is  now  payable  ?  I  suppose  he  can  be  trusted, 
and  that  you  can  authorize  him.  H.'s  departure  seems  to  be  a 
new  reason  for  disposing  of  Buriton. 

538. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

December  Slst,  1788. 

This  moment  I  receive  and  answer  your  Epistle.  We  are  in 
the  midst  of  the  hardest  winter  I  ever  felt,  and  three  English 
mails  are  arrived  at  once  this  morning.  A  black  prospect  indeed 
of  public  and  private  affairs,  and  such  is  my  patriotism  that  I 

*  James,  first  Earl  of  Malmesbury,  the  distinguished  diplomatist,  married 
Harriot  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  G.  Amyand,  Bart. 

'  George  Ellis  (1753-1815)  is  best  known  for  his  Specimens  of  the  Early 
English  Poets  (1790)  and  his  Specimens  of  Early  English  Romances  in  Metre 
(1805).  He  was,  wrote  Sir  Walter  Scott,  "the  first  converser  I  ever  saw. 
His  patience  and  good  breeding  made  me  often  ashamed  of  myself,  going  off 
at  score  upon  some  favourite  topic."  To  him  Scott  addresses  the  lines  iu 
the  fifth  canto  of  Marmion,  beginning — 

"  Thou  who  canst  give  to  lightest  lay 
An  unpedantic  moral  gay,"  etc. 

He  had  been  employed  in  diplomatic  work  by  Lord  Malmesbury  at  the 
Hague  in  1784,  and  accompanied  him  for  the  same  purpose  to  the  Lille 
Conference  in  1797.  He  was  at  this  time  travelling  on  the  Continent  with 
Lord  and  Lady  Malmesbury.  The  lines  on  Pitt  in  Number  ii.  of  the  RolLad 
are  attributed  to  him — 

"  Pert  without  fire,  without  experience  sage. 
Young,  with  more  art  than  Shelburne  glean'd  from  age, 
Too  proud  from  pilfer'd  greatness  to  descend. 
Too  humble  not  to  call  Dundas  his  friend. 
In  solemn  dignity  and  sullen  state. 
This  new  Octavius  rises  to  debate !  "  etc.,  etc. 


1788.]  HUGONIN'S  DISHONESTY.  185 

must  fairly  own  the  latter  are  predominant  in  my  thoughts.  Is 
it  possible  that  my  old  friend  poor  Hugonin  should  turn  out  a 
rogue  ?  I  thought  him  both  an  honest  and  a  frugal  man,  but 
the  facts  you  mention  are  strongly  against  him.  Is  it  possible 
that  his  landed  property,  which  was  considerable,  should  be 
insufficient  to  satisfy  my  demands  and  those  of  all  his  creditors  ? 
Is  it  possible  that,  living  retired  in  the  Country,  he  should  have 
deranged  his  affairs  ?  I  still  flatter  myself  that  his  executors 
must  and  can  repay  any  sums  which  he  may  have  borrowed  in  my 
name,  and  though  there  should  be  some  delay,  I  still  hope  that, 
with  proper  steps  on  your  side,  there  will  not  finally  be  much  loss. 
If  all  is  indeed  desperate  down  to  Hugonin's  strange  receipt  in 
full,  it  is  not  a  year  but  a  year  and  a  half's  rent  that  I  have 
miserably  lost,  as  I  had  been  persuaded  or  compelled  to  allow  six 
months'  grace,  and  to  be  satisfied  with  receiving  before  Christmas 
the  year's  rent  which  had  been  due  the  preceding  Lady-day. 
There  is  besides  some  arrear  of  rent  from  the  College  farms  which 
was  due  at  the  time  of  the  sale,  and  which  Hugonin  has  never 
clearly  settled.  Such  a  blow,  at  least  of  seven  or  eight  hundred 
pounds,  will  most  essentially  distress  me,  and  derange  those 
schemes  of  comfort  and  order  which  I  now  thought  most  firmly 
established.  You  are  my  only  refuge.  Could  I  hope  (I  may  wish, 
I  must  not  ask)  that  you  would  get  into  your  post-chaise  in 
Downing  Street  and  run  down  to  Petersfield  ?  Your  eagle-eye 
and  active  firmness  would  see  more  and  do  more  in  eight  and 
forty  hours  than  all  the  agents  and  letters  in  the  World.  If  this 
be  too  much,  a  man  of  confidence  (is  Purden  fit  for  the  commission?) 
might  be  sent  to  make  a  full  observation  and  report  of  the  state 
of  accounts,  and  of  the  farm  at  Beriton  with  respect  both  to 
present  arrangements  and  final  operations.  Andrews  has  a  fair 
character,  but  an  Attorney  ! 

This  unforeseen  and  unfortunate  blow  encreases  my  desire 
of  getting  rid  of  such  dangerous  and  ungovernable  property ; 
and  from  the  produce  of  any  sum  between  18  and  15,000  pounds 
I  could  certainly  draw  a  larger  and  safer  income  than  I  enjoy 
at  present.  But  how  to  proceed.  Is  Mrs.  G.  of  Bath  perfectly 
satisfied  ?  I  have  not  heard  from  her  nor  do  you  mention  her 
name.  Have  you  heard  of  the  Northamptonshire  Saint  ?  You 
wait  for  my  instructions,  I  can  send  none.  You  are  an  able 
and  active  friend,  and  I  shall  acquiesce  in  all  you  think  right, 


186  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

even  in  the  auction,  which  does  not  thoroughly  suit  my  taste. 
I  should  prefer  a  fair  Gentlemanlike  private  address  to  Bonham 
either  by  letter  or  in  person.  For  Grod's  sake,  or  rather  for 
friendship's  sake,  comfort  and  extricate  me.  I  am  in  low  spirits. 
Adieu. 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 
Write  soon — I  think  the  earliest  and  most  vigorous  steps 
should  be  taken  for  making  my  demand  on  H.'s  executors.     Is 
there  no  allusion  between  him  and  the  Tenant  ?  if  there  is  would 
it  not  invalidate  his  irnmual  receipt  ? 


539. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Feb.  4th,  1789. 

If  Hugonin's  debt  be  desperate  I  must  submit,  but  there  is  no 
imhecillity  in  saying  that  the  loss  will  derange  my  plans,  since  I 
must  sell  out  of  the  funds  to  supply  the  deficiency.  The  amount 
of  my  fruitless  demand  I  cannot  specify,  but  you  may  easily  make 
it  out  by  comparing  Hugonin's  remittances  to  the  Goslings  with 
the  rent-roll  of  the  Estate.  Mrs.  G.  of  Bath  must  doubtless  be 
satisfied  and  secured  in  any  way  and  on  any  fund  which  her 
prudence  or  fancy  may  prefer.  You  had  once  dropt  something  of 
giving  her  a  security  on  your  Estate.  That  method,  which  could 
not  be  attended  with  any  risk  or  inconvenience  to  yourself,  would 
perhaps  be  most  agreable  to  all  parties.  I  most  sincerely  hope  that 
the  sale  may  be  already  dispatched  by  private  contract,  before  the 
decisive  18  th  of  February.  AVhy  should  you  confine  yourself  to 
so  short  a  day,  since  the  town  is  equally  full  in  March  and  April  ? 
and  you  are  sensible  how  much  the  failure  of  the  auction  would 
blast  any  other  operations.  Is  it  yet  too  late  for  a  delay  ?  I 
mean  only  of  some  weeks,  for  I  am  very  desirous  of  terminating 
this  winter,  in  the  present  prosperous  state  of  the  Country  :  and 
indeed  so  desirous  that  I  could  patiently  submit  to  a  much  larger 
abatement,  to  be  at  last  possessed  of  a  much  better  income  free 
from  those  accidents  and  deductions  to  which  land  is  so  woefully 
exposed.    You  talk  of  £18,000,  but  if  you  could  not  get  more 


1789.]        DEYVERDUN'S  SECOND  ATTACK.         187 

than  17  or  even  IG,  I  might  afterwards  repent  your  refusal.  I 
would  certainly  vest  part  in  a  mortgage,  but  I  would  rather  chusc 
my  man  and  my  county,  and  should  like  to  have  the  security  of 
a  larger  estate  than  that  of  Buriton.  While  such  an  one  was 
looking  for,  the  part  of  the  purchase  money  not  secured  to  Mrs. 
G.  might  lye  safely  in  the  funds. 

I  have  not  heard  from  either  of  the  old  Ladies,  and  wish  you 
could  inform  yourself  of  the  state  of  the  Northamptonshire  Saint. 
If  you  will  apply  to  my  good  friend  Lord  Spencer,  he  could 
easily  find  you  a  correspondent  in  that  neighbourhood  who  without 
noise  or  scandal  might  send  you  regular  and  early  notice  of  her 
decline  and  fall. — On  smaller  matters  you  are  too  earnest  and 
almost  angry  :  the  continuance  of  the  foreign  papers  I  could  not 
foresee  and  will  try  to  rectify.  Jones's  bill,  a  trifle  of  about  ten 
pounds,  I  will  settle 

Had  I  the  least  idea  of  the  25  guineas  of  the  Eoyal  society, 
I  should  not  have  solicited  so  useless  a  title  :  but  the  dye  is  now 
cast,  and  I  will  write  to  Elmsley  to  satisfy  that  demand  as  well  as 
the  Antiquarian  and  African.  I  certainly  did  not  give  him  any 
orders  about  newspapers,  magazines,  &c.,  as  I  cannot  devise  any 
method  of  getting  them  in  any  reasonable  time  without  an 
extravagant  expence.  Your  copiousness  on  my  affairs  makes  you 
concise  on  those  of  the  public.  The  debates  and  the  outside 
transactions  I  can  read  in  English  and  foreign  papers,  but  from 
you,  as  Cicero  says  to  his  friend  Ccelius  (ad  familiares,  L.  ii.  Ep.  8) 
nee  frmterita  nee  prcesentia,  sed  ut  ah  homine  longe  in  ])Osterum 
prospiciente  futura  exspecto,  ut  ex  tuis  Utferis,  cum  formam  Rei 
pubUc(B  viderim,  quale  mdi/icium  futurum  sit  scire  p)ossim.  Above 
all  I  wish  to  hear  what  part  you  are  likely  yourself  to  act  in  the 
new  regency,  your  hopes,  your  wishes,  and  whether  you  intend 
next  winter  to  breathe  the  free  and  pleasant  air  of  Lausanne  or 
to  tug  at  the  parliamentary  and  official  oar,  amid  the  fogs  of 
London. 

Of  my  book  I  have  not  leisure  or  inclination  to  talk.  Its 
genuine  reputation  will  rise  or  fall  without  any  regard  to  the 
barking  critics  who  always  attend  the  heels  of  any  popular  work. 
Two  translations  are  printing  at  Paris,  and  two  English  editions 
in  Germany.  I  embrace  My  lady,  &c.,  and  still  hold  my  intention 
of  writing.  Adieu.  Severy  tells  his  own  story.  I  believe  he  is 
a  tolerable  correspondent.    Poor  DeyverJun  has  had  another,  a 


188  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

slighter,  attack ;  he  is  now  better,  but  I  fear  that  his  days  will 

be  neither  long  nor  happy.     A  melancholy  theme.     Once  more 

Adieu. 

E.G. 

540. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  February  28th,  1789. 

Dear  Madam, 

Immediately  on  my  return  to  this  place,  I  wrote  to 
inform  you  of  my  safe  arrival :  but  some  months  have  now 
elapsed  without  hearing  from  you.  I  should  not  have  patiently 
acquiesced  under  this  silence,  had  I  not  in  the  mean  time  ob- 
tained, through  the  channel  of  Mrs.  Holroyd  and  Lord  Sheffield, 
such  frequent  and  authentic  information  as  gave  me  tolerable 
though  not  perfect  satisfaction  on  the  very  interesting  subject  of 
your  health  and  happiness.  With  regard  to  my  own  I  have  no 
reason  to  complain.  I  have  supported  without  inconvenience 
the  short  but  severe  cold  of  this  winter  ;  the  gout  has  not  yet 
invaded  my  tranquillity,  and  I  again  enjoy  the  life  of  society 
and  study  which  renders  Lausanne  so  agreable  to  my  taste.  The 
heaviest  drawback  is  the  state  of  poor  Deyverdun.  Besides  a 
gradual  and  visible  decline  he  has  had  two  strokes  of  an  Apoplexy, 
and  as  these  dreadful  warnings  cannot  teach  him  a  lesson  of 
temperance,  his  physicians  do  not  allow  me  to  entertain  a  hope 
of  his  recovery. 

My  desire  to  get  rid  of  Buriton  is  much  confirmed  by  a  very 
disagreable  proof  of  the  danger  of  distant  and  landed  property. 
Hugonin  is  just  dead,  and  dead  insolvent :  his  real  estate  is 
entailed  on  his  brother,  his  personals  will  not  satisfy  his  bond 
creditors,  and  as  he  had  given  receipts  to  my  tenants  down  to 
Michaelmas  last,  I  must  lose  without  hopes  of  redress  the  rent 
and  arrears  of  a  year  and  a  half.  An  heavy  and  unseasonable 
loss !  Yet  notwithstanding  my  ardour  to  shake  off  the  incum- 
brance, I  have  made  it  my  first  condition  with  Lord  Sheffield  that 
in  the  progress  of  the  business  he  shall  obtain  not  only  your  legal 
consent,  but  your  free  and  chearful  approbation.  Since  you  dis- 
like a  mortgage,  the  security  of  your  jointure  may  be  transferred  to 
an  adequate  part  of  the  purchase  money,  vested  in  the  funds,  or  if 
you  prefer  land  I  am  persuaded  that  Lord  S.  will  not  refuse  the 


1789.]  THE  SALE  OF   BERITON.  189 

broad  basis  of  bis  Sussex  estate.  May  you  long  enjoy  an  income 
which  I  have  often  wished  it  were  in  my  power  to  enlarge  to  the 
full  measure  of  my  affection. 

Let  me  hear  from  you  soon  ;  if  writing  be  inconvenient,  I  am 
persuaded  that  Mrs.  or  Miss  Gould  would  discharge  with  pleasure 
the  office  of  secretary. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  a. 

541. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  April  25,  1789. 

*Before  your  letter,  which  I  received  yesterday,  I  was  in  the 
tinxious  situation  of  a  King,  who  hourly  expects  a  courier  from 
his  general,  with  the  news  of  a  decisive  engagement.  I  had 
abstained  from  writing,  for  fear  of  dropping  a  word,  or  betray- 
ing a  feeling,  which  might  render  you  too  cautious  or  too  bold. 
On  the  famous  8th  of  April,  between  twelve  and  two,  I  reflected 
that  the  business  was  determined ;  and  each  succeeding  day  I 
computed  the  speedy  approach  of  your  messenger,  with  favourable 
or  melancholy  tidings.  When  I  broke  the  seal  I  expected  to  read, 
"'  What  a  damned  unlucky  fellow  you  are !  Nothing  tolerable 
was  offered,  and  I  indignantly  withdrew  the  estate."  I  did 
remember  the  fate  of  poor  Lenborough,  and  I  was  afraid  of  your 
magnanimity,  &c.*  Well,  then,  1  have  £16,000  pounds  instead  of 
Buriton  !  upon  the  whole  I  rejoyce  in  the  exchange,  although  the 
sum  has  fallen  short  of  our  expectations,  and  I  feel  the  weight  of 
the  reasons  which  kept  it  down.  But  if  Lord  Stawell  was  the 
only  bidder,  why  in  God's  name  could  he  not  make  the  same  offer 
by  private  contract,  and  save  me  the  expences  of  the  Auction, 
-which  I  fear  are  considerable  ?  Pray  who  pays  the  tax,  the  buyer 
or  the  seller,  and  what  deduction  will  occur  on  the  gross  sum  ? 

What  I  am  specially  pleased  with  is  the  character  of  the  pur- 
•chaser,  or  rather  of  his  agent,  whom  I  still  suppose  to  be  my  old 
acquaintance,  Mr.  Sainsbury,  a  man  of  sense,  experience,  and  a  fair 
reputation.  He  was  bred  an  Attorney  at  Petersfield,  knows  every 
inch  of  the  estate,  and  would  not  have  suffered  his  Lord  to  pur- 
chase without  having  the  money,  or  to  give  a  price  above  the  real 


190  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

value.  From  him  we  shall  have  no  captious  difficulties  or  evasive 
delays — he  will  be  content  with  a  fair  title,  and  I  flatter  myself 
that  the  whole  business  will  be  terminated  with  ease  and  despatch. 
But  as  many  things  fall  out  between  the  cup  and  the  lip,  your 
friendship  I  am  sure  will  not  be  asleep,  you  will  goad  the  slow- 
paced  lawyers,  and  settle  Mrs.  Gr.'s  security  for  her  jointure  in  the 
manner  most  convenient  and  agreable  for  herself.  By  what  time 
do  you  probably  suppose  that  I  may  have  the  money  in  my  pocket  ? 
It  would  be  generous,  too  generous  perhaps,  in  Lord  S.  and  his 
agent,  if  they  would  make  the  payment  and  take  possession  of  the 
estate  on  your  act  and  guarantee  without  waiting  for  the  return 
of  the  writings  from  Lausanne.  I  have  sketched  a  short  paper 
which  you  may  shew  them  if  you  think  it  will  be  of  any  use. 

*It  is  whimsical  enough,  but  it  is  in  human  nature,  that  I  now 
begin  to  think  of  the  deep-rooted  foundations  of  land,  and  the  airy 
fabrick  of  the  funds.  I  not  only  consent,  but  even  wish,  to  have 
eight  or  ten  thousand  pounds  on  a  good  mortgage  ;  but  I  think 
the  whole  of  that  sum  too  large  for  Buriton,  and  conceive  that 
Lord  Stawell  should  reinforce  it  by  some  collateral  security.*  How 
often  have  I  regretted  my  dear  New-river  share  which  the  Goslings 
so  rudely  tore  from  me.  I  should  not  be  unwilling  to  repurchase 
it  for  the  same  money,  I  mean  instead  of  the  mortgage. — I  forgot 
to  say,  indeed  it  is  needless,  that  I  suppose  all  proper  care  has  been 
taken  about  a  deposit,  and  to  secure  my  receipt  of  the  rents  till 
the  payment  of  the  money.  A  propos  of  the  rents,  half  a  year  is 
now  due  since  that  worthy  general  discharge  of  last  Michaelmas, 
and  I  desire  that  Andrews  may  instantly  exact  it,  it  will  be  a 
seasonable  supply,  and  if  Heartfee  suffers  any  inconvenience  it  will 
be  no  more  than  a  just  punishment  for  his  scandalous  and  manifest 
collusion  with  poor  Hugonin,  whose  merits  I  am  more  inclined  to 
remember  than  his  faults. 

Mrs.  G[ibbon]  of  Cliffe  has  not  answered  my  letters,  and  I 
am  anxious  to  learn  the  state  of  her  health.  Her  correspondent  in 
town  is  Mr.  Law,  I  know  not  of  what  trade,  in  Sun  Court,  Corn- 
hill  or  Cheapside :  if  you  call  on  him  in  one  of  your  morning 
walks  you  may  gain  and  transmit  some  information. — When  you 
see  your  Madeira  friends  (is  not  his  name  Millighan  ?)  of  John 
Street,  pray  thank  him  in  my  name  ;  the  wine  proves  excellent,  it 
is  a  credit  to  my  table,  and  a  comfort  to  my  health.  I  want  a  pipe 
that  he  can  answer  for,  and  as  bottles  almost  double  the  expence. 


1789.]  RECOVERY  OF  GEORGE  III.  191 

I  think  it  should  be  packed  carefully  in  a  double  cask,  and  scut 
with  all  convenient  speed  to  Messieurs  Romberg  at  Ostend,  the 
greatest  voitiu'icrs  in  Europe :  they  must  be  instructed  to  forward 
it  with  all  proper  precaution  to  their  correspondent  at  Basil  or 
Basle  in  Switzerland,  who  must  keep  it  safe  till  he  has  received 
from  me  a  permit  for  its  admission  into  the  Canton  of  Berne, 
which  I  shall  be  able  to  send  beforehand  if  Messieurs  Romberg 
inform  me  of  his  name  and  direction.  For  want  of  such  a  permit 
my  former  wine  *was  seized,  and  would  have  been  confiscated,  if  the 
Government  of  Berne  had  not  treated  me  with  the  most  flattering 
and  distinguished  civility:  they  not  only  released  the  wine,  but 
they  paid  out  of  their  own  pocket  the  shares  to  which  the  Bailiff 
and  the  informer  were  entitled  by  law.  I  should  not  forget  that 
the  Bailiff  refused  to  accept  of  his  part. 

Poor  Deyverdun's  constitution  is  quite  broken ;  he  has  had 
two  or  three  attacks,  not  so  violent  as  the  first :  every  time  the 
door  is  hastily  opened,  I  expect  to  hear  of  some  fatal  accident  : 
the  best  or  worst  hopes  of  the  Physicians  are  only  that  he  may 
linger  some  time  longer  ;  but,  if  he  lives  till  the  summer,  they 
propose  sending  him  to  some  mineral  waters  at  Aix,  in  Savoy. 
You  will  be  glad  to  hear  that  I  am  now  assured  of  possessing, 
during  my  life,  this  delightful  house  and  garden.  The  act  has 
been  latelij  executed  in  the  best  form,  and  the  handsomest  manner. 

I  know  not  what  to  say  of  your  miracles  at  home  :  we  rejoyce 
in  the  king's  recovery,  and  its  ministerial  consequences  ;  and  I 
cannot  be  insensible  to  the  hope,  at  least  the  chance,  of  seeing 
in  this  Country  a  first  Lord  of  trade,  or  Secrettiry  at  War.  In 
your  answer,  which  I  shall  impatiently  expect,  you  will  give 
me  a  full  and  true  account  of  your  designs,  which  by  this  time 
must  have  droppt,  or  be  determined  at  least,  for  the  present 
year.  If  you  come,  it  is  high  time  that  we  should  look  out  for  a 
house — a  task  much  less  easy  than  you  may  possibly  imagine.* 

I  embrace  My  Lady  with  warm  affection,  and  still  cherish  the 
firm  intention  of  writing  to  her  soon.  But  the  Dame  pays  more 
attention  to  the  Epistles  which  she  does  not,  than  to  those  which 
she  does,  receive.  At  her  request  Madame  de  Severy  wrote  her  a 
long  letter  about  the  two  Tvfts  and  many  other  important  matters, 
and  Mademoiselle  at  my  desire  added  a  scrap  for  Mademoiselle. 
They  begin  to  wonder  at  her  silence,  and  accuse  the  negligence 
of  the  post.    By  her  correspondence  with  Severy  I  rejoyce  to  find 


192  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

that  the  clouds  are  dispelled,  and  hope  that  she  leads  Maria  into 
the  winter  pleasures  of  the  World. 

*Among  new  books,  I  recommend  to  you  the  Count  de  Mira- 
beau's  great  work,  sur  la  3Ionarchie  Prussienne ;  ^  it  is  in  your  own 
way,  and  gives  a  very  just  and  compleat  idea  of  that  wonderful 
machine.  His  Correspondence  secretie  is  diabolically  good.  Adieu. 
Ever  yours.* 

542. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  June  13,  1789. 

*You  are  in  truth  a  wise,  active,  indefatigable,  and  inestimable 
friend  ;  and  as  our  virtues  are  often  connected  with  our  faults,  if 
you  were  more  tame  and  placid,  you  would  be  perhaps  of  less  use 
and  value.  A  very  important  and  difficult  transaction  seems  to 
be  nearly  terminated  with  success  and  mutual  satisfaction  :  we 
seem  to  run  before  the  wind  with  a  prosperous  gale  ;  and,  unless 
we  should  strike  on  some  secret  rocks,  which  I  do  not  foresee,  we 
shall,  on  or  before  the  31st  July,  enter  the  harbour  of  content ; 
though  I  cannot  pursue  the  metaphor  by  adding  we  shall  land^ 
since  our  operation  is  of  the  very  opposite  tendency.  I  could 
not  easily  forgive  myself  for  shutting  you  up  in  a  dark  room  with 
parchments  and  attornies,  did  I  not  reflect  that  this  probably  is 
the  last  material  trouble  that  you  will  ever  have  on  my  account ; 
and  that,  after  the  labours  and  delays  of  near  twenty  years,  I  shall 
at  last  attain  what  I  have  always  sighed  for,  a  clear  and  competent 
income,  above  my  wants,  and  equal  to  my  wishes.  In  this  con- 
templation you  will  be  sufficiently  rewarded.  I  hope  Sainsbury 
will  be  content  with  our  title-deeds,  for  I  cannot  furnish  another 
shred  of  parchment.* 

"What  difficulty  can  arise  about  our  family  Wills  ?  My 
father  made  none,  and  I  took  out  letters  of  administration  as 
heir  at  law :  my  grandfather's  may  be  found  at  the  Commons 
for  a  shilUng  :  but  it  is  not  worth  that  shilling,  since  I  joyned 
on  coming  of  age  with  my  father  to  cut  off  the  entail.     Our 

•  Be  la  monarchie  Prussienne  sous  Fr€d€ric  le  Grand  (1788,  4");  and 
Histoire  Secrete  de  la  Cour  de  Berlin,  ou  Correspondance  d'un  voyageur 
Franfais  (1789,  8").  Both  books  vrere  by  Honore'  Gabriel  Rlquetti,  Comte 
de  Mirabeau. 


1789.]  ANXIETY  FOR   IIIS   STEPMOTHER.  103 

fine  and  recovery  (in  the  year  1758)  are  doubtless  registered 
in  the  proper  courts.  I  as  little  understand  the  want  of  my 
father's  marriage  settlement.  "With  his  first  wife  ?  she  has  been 
dead  above  forty  years,  and  I  am  her  sole  representative.  With 
his  second,  the  present  Mrs.  Gibbon  ?  From  her  it  may  be  easily 
procured,  and  you  are  not  ignorant  that  *her  jointure  of  £200 
a  year  is  secured  on  the  Buriton  estate,  and  that  her  legal  consent 
is  requisite  for  the  sale.  Again  and  again  I  must  repeat  my  hope 
that  she  is  perfectly  satisfied,  and  that  the  close  of  her  life  may 
not  be  embittered  by  suspicion,  or  fear,  or  discontent.  What  new 
security  does  she  prefer, — the  funds,  the  mortgage,  or  your  land  ? 
At  all  events  she  must  be  made  easy.  I  wrote  to  her  again  some 
time  ago,  and  begged  that  if  she  were  too  weak  to  write,  she 
would  desire  Mrs.  Gould  or  Mrs.  Holroyd  to  give  me  a  line  con- 
cerning her  state  of  health.  To  this  no  answer  ;  I  am  afraid  she 
is  displeased.*  By  the  channel  of  Mrs.  H.  you  might  convey  some 
idea  of  my  real  anxiety. 

The  Saint  seems  ripe  for  heaven  :  could  you  not  learn  from 
Law,  what  people  are  about  her,  and  what  measures  can  be 
taken  to  have  the  earliest  intelligence  of  her  departure  to  prevent 
a  Will  being  secreted,  &c.  ?    Yet  I  am  her  heir-at-law. 

*]Srow  for  the  disposal  of  the  money  :  I  approve  of  the  £8000 
mortgage  on  Buriton ;  and  honour  your  prudence  in  not  showing- 
them,  by  the  comparison  of  the  rent  and  interest,  how  foolish  it 
is  to  purchase  land.*  If  you  can  obtain  from  Lord  S[tawell]  the- 
four  and  a  half,  tant  mieux.  In  case  you  cannot,  I  will  suggest  an 
odd  but  I  think  a  rational  scheme.  Let  four  and  a  half,  or  rather 
five  per  cent,  be  stipulated  in  the  mortgage  deed,  with  a  proviso 
in  a  separate  act  that,  as  long  as  the  interest  shall  be  paid  on  or 
before  the  day  appointed,  I  will  be  satisfied  with  four  per  cent.  As 
long  as  Lord  S.  is  punctual  (and  this  will  be  a  stimulus)  he  will 
pay  no  more  ;  and  should  I  ever  be  forced  by  his  neglect  to  transfer 
the  mortgage,  which  will,  I  suppose,  be  in  my  power,  I  shall  easily 
find  a  substitute  at  the  advanced  interest.  For  how  many  years 
do  I  lend.?  Do  I  reserve  a  right  of  putting  in  my  own  receiver  ? 
Six  thousand  more  will  be  vested  in  the  three  per  cents,  and  if 
Mrs.  G.  chuses  them,  that  sum  will  not  be  too  large  a  basis  for  her 
jointure  of  £200  a  year.  The  additional  hundred  which  I  pay 
her  is  a  separate  account.  The  remainder,  between  two  and  three 
thousand,  may  be  trusted  to  private  security. 
VOL.  ir.  o 


194  gibbon's  COREESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

Did  you  wish  for  <^&-wbele,-or-imrfc,-er-mere  ?  it  is  perfectly 
at  your  scrTice-i  4)ut  as  you  arc  iudiffer^it,  I  write  to  you  in  the 
third  person. 

"  I  have  some  knowledge  of  the  Lord  Sheffield  whom  you 
mention,  and  though  he  is  poor,  I  believe  him  to  be  honest,  and 
I  should  therefore  prefer  his  four  and  a  half  regularly  paid  at 
Gosling's,  without  trouble  or  application,  to  a  more  doubtful  five 
per  cent,  which  might  perhaps  be  found  on  bond  security." 

But  I  had  rather  wait  some  weeks  before  I  absolutely  deter^ 
mine,  as  *there  is  a  chance  of  my  drawing  the  greatest  part  of 
the  sum  into  this  country,  for  an  arrangement  which  you  yourself 
must  approve,  but  which  I  have  not  time  to  explain  at  present. 
For  the  sake  of  dispatching,  by  this  evening's  post,  an  answer  to 
your  letter  which  arrived  this  morning,  I  confine  myself  to  the 
needful,  but  in  the  course  of  a  few  days  I  irill  dictate  to  Severy 
a,  more  familiar  Epistle.     I  embrace,  &c.    Adieu.     Ever  yours.* 


.543. 

To  Lord  Sh(ffield. 

Lausanne,  July  14,  1789. 
*Poor  Deyverdun  is  no  more  :  He  expired  Saturday  the  4th 
instant :  and  in  his  unfortunate  situation,  death  could  only  be 
viewed  by  himself,  and  his  friend,  in  the  light  of  a  consummation 
devoutly  to  be  wished  for.  Since  September  he  has  had  a  dozen 
Apoplectic  strokes,  more  or  less  violent :  in  the  intervals  between 
them  his  strength  gradually  decayed  ;  every  principle  of  life  was 
exhausted ;  and  had  he  continued  to  drag  a  miserable  existence, 
he  must  probably  have  survived  the  loss  of  his  faculties.  Of  all 
misfortunes  this  was  what  he  himself  most  apprehended  :  but  his 
reason  was  clear  and  calm  to  the  last ;  he  beheld  his  approaching 
dissolution  with  the  firmness  of  a  philosopher.  I  fancied  that 
time  and  reflection  had  prepared  me  for  the  event ;  but  the  habits 
of  three-and-thirty  years'  friendship  are  not  so  easily  broken. 
The  first  days,  and  more  especially  the  first  nights,  were  indeed 
painful.  Last  Wednesday  and  Saturday  it  would  not  have  been 
in  my  power  to  write.  I  must  now  recollect  myself,  since  it  is 
necessary  for  me  not  only  to  impart  the  news,  but  to  ask  your 
opinion  on  a  very  serious  and  doubtful  question,  which  must  be 


1789.]  DEATH   OF  DEYVERDUN.  195 

decided  without  loss  of  time.  I  shall  state  the  facts,  but  as  I  am 
on  the  spot  and  as  new  lights  may  occur,  I  do  not  promise  implicit 
obedience. 

Had  my  poor  friend  died  without  a  Will,  a  female  Jirst  cousin 
settled  somewhere  in  the  north  of  Germany,  and  whom  I  believe 
he  had  never  seen,  would  have  been  his  heir  at  law.  In  the  next 
degree  he  had  several  cousins  ;  and  one  of  these,  an  old  companion, 
by  name  Mr.  de  Montagny,  he  has  chosen  for  his  heir.  As  this 
house  and  garden  was  the  best  and  clearest  part  of  poor  Deyver- 
dun's  fortune  ;  as  there  is  an  heavy  duty  or  fine  (what  they  call 
Lods)  on  every  change  of  property  out  of  the  legal  descent ;  as 
Montagny  has  a  small  estate  and  a  large  family,  it  was  necessary 
to  make  some  provision  in  his  favour.  The  will  therefore  leaves 
me  the  option  of  enjoying  this  place  during  my  life,  on  paying 
the  sum  of  £250  (I  reckon  in  English  money)  at  present,  and  an 
annual  rent  of  £30  ;  or  else  of  purchasing  the  house  and  garden 
for  a  sum  which,  including  the  duty,  will  amount  to  £2500.  If 
I  value  the  rent  of  £30  at  twelve  years'  purchase,  I  may  acquire 
my  enjoyment  for  life  at  about  the  rate  of  £600  ;  and  the 
remaining  £1900  will  be  the  difference  between  that  tenure  and 
absolute  perpetual  property.  As  you  have  never  accused  me  of 
too  ardent  a  zeal  for  the  interest  of  posterity,  you  will  easily  guess 
"which  scale  at  first  preponderated.  I  deeply  felt  the  advantage  of 
acquiring,  for  the  smaller  sum,  every  possible  enjoyment,  as  long 
as  I  myself  should  be  capable  of  enjoying  :  I  rejected,  with  scorn, 
the  idea  of  giving  £1900  for  ideal  posthumous  property ;  and  I 
deemed  it  of  little  moment  whose  name,  after  my  death,  should 
be  inscribed  on  my  house  and  garden  at  Lausanne.  How  often 
did  I  repeat  to  myself  the  philosophical  lines  of  Pope,  which  seem 
to  determine  the  question  : 

Pray  Heaven,  cries  Swift,  it  last  as  you  go  on  ; 
I  wish  to  God  this  house  had  been  your  own. 
Pity  to  build  -without  or  son  or  wife : 
Why,  you'll  enjoy  it  only  all  your  life. 
Well,  if  the  use  be  mine,  does  it  concern  one, 
Whether  the  name  belong  to  Pope  or  Vernon? 

In  this  state  of  self-satisfaction  I  was  not  much  disturbed  by 
the  unanimous  advice  of  all  my  real  or  nominal  friends,  who 
exhort  me  to  prefer  the  right  of  purchase  :  among  such  friends, 
some  are  careless  and  some  are  ignorant ;  and  the  judgment  of 


196  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789-. 

those,  who  are  able  and  willing  to  form  an  opinion,  is  often 
byassed  by  some  selfish  or  social  affection,  by  some  visible  or 
invisible  interest.  But  my  own  reflections  have  gradually  and 
forcibly  driven  me  from  my  first  propensity  ;  and  those  reflections 
I  will  now  proceed  to  enumerate  : 

1.  I  can  make  this  purchase  with  ease  and  prudence.  As  I 
have  had  the  pleasure  of  not  hearing  from  you  very  lately,  I  flatter 
myself  that  you  advance  on  a  carpet-road,  and  that  almost  by  the 
receipt  of  this  letter  (July  the  31st)  the  acres  of  Buriton  will  be 
transmuted  into  Sixteen  thousand  pounds  :  If  the  payment  be  not 
absolutely  compleated  by  that  day,  Sainsbury  will  not  scruple,  I 
suppose,  depositing  the  £2500  at  Gosling's,  to  meet  my  draught. 
Should  he  hesitate,  I  can  desire  Barrel  to  sell  off  quantum  sufficit 
of  my  short  annuities.  As  soon  as  the  new  settlement  of  my 
affairs  is  made,  I  shall  be  able,  after  deducting  this  sum,  to  square 
my  expence  to  my  income.*  The  decay  of  the  Belvidere^  must 
place  me  in  easy,  and  the  bounty  of  the  Cliffe  ^  may  establish  me 
in  affluent  ch'cumstance.  If  this  Lausanne  purchase  should  seem 
a  violent  measure,  at  the  worst  I  can  make  Cadell  repay  me  th& 
money  in  three  or  four  years.  I  am  revolving  the  means.  I  am 
beginning  to  be  a  rich  man. 

*2.  On  mature  consideration,  I  am  perhaps  less  selfish  or  less 
philosophical  than  I  appear  at  first  sight :  Indeed,  were  I  not 
so,  it  would  now  be  in  my  power  to  turn  my  fortune  into  life- 
annuities,  and  let  the  Devil  take  the  hindmost.  I  feel,  (perhaps 
it  is  foolish,)  but  I  feel  that  this  little  paradise  will  please  me  still 
more  when  it  is  absolutely  my  own  ;  and  that  I  shall  be  encouraged 
in  every  improvement  of  use  or  beauty,  by  the  prospect  that,  after 
my  departure,  it  will  be  enjoyed  by  some  person  of  my  own  choice. 
I  sometimes  reflect  with  pleasure  that  my  writings  will  survive 
me  :  and  that  idea  is  at  least  as  vain  and  chimerical. 

3.  The  heir,  Mr.  de  Montagny,  is  an  old  acquaintance*  of  mine. 
I  believe  him  to  be  a  man  of  honour  :  but  I  hioiv  him  to  be  a  man 
of  a  passionate  quaiTelsome  disputatious  temper.  *My  situation  of 
a  life-holder  is  rather  new  and  singular  in  this  country  :  the  laws 
have  not  provided  for  many  nice  cases  which  may  arise  between 
the  Landlord  and  tenant :  some  I  can  foresee,  others  have  been 
suggested,  many  more  I  might  feel  when  it  would  be  too  late. 

'  His  stepmother,  Mrs.  Gibbon. 
'  His  aunt,  Miss  Hester  Gibbon. 


1789.]  "FIERCE  AND  ERECT,   A  FREE  MASTER."  197 

Ills  right  of  property  might  plague  and  confine  me  :  he  might 
forbid  my  lending  to  a  friend,  inspect  my  conduct,  check  my 
improvements,  call  for  securities,  repairs,  «fec.  But  if  I  purchase, 
I  walk  on  my  own  terrace,  fierce  and  erect,  the  free  master  of  one 
of  the  most  delicious  spots  on  the  Globe.* 

4.  You  will  perhaps  think  £2500  a  very  smart  price  for  a 
moderate  house  and  three  or  four  acres  of  land  (I  fancy  that  is 
about  the  measure).  You  will  be  much  more  surprized  to  hear 
that  poor  Deyverdun  has  valued  it  in  my  favour  at  least  £1000 
below  the  real  value  and  market  price.  Of  this  I  must  inform 
myself  more  correctly,  but  I  am  much  inclined  to  believe  it,  from 
the  general  opinion,  from  the  comparison  of  other  sales  and 
purchases,  from  the  peculiar  merits  of  the  situation,  and  from  the 
scarcity  of  ground.  If  it  were  divided  into  three  houses  and 
gardens  and  sold  to  builders,  I  know  not  what  it  would  produce. 

*Should  I  ever  migrate  homewards,  (You  stare,  but  such  an 
event  is  less  improbable  than  I  could  have  thought  it  two  years 
ago,)  this  place  would  be  disputed  by  strangers  and  natives,  and 
the  difference  would  perhaps  clear  the  expences  of  my  removal. 

Weigh  these  reasons,  and  send  me  without  delay  a  rational, 
explicit  opinion,  to  which  I  shall  pay  such  regard  as  the  nature  of 
circumstances  will  allow.  But,  alas  !  when  all  is  determined,  I 
shall  possess  this  house,  by  whatsoever  tenure,  without  friendship 
or  domestic  society.  I  did  not  imagine,  six  years  ago,  that  a  plan 
of  life  so  congenial  to  my  wishes,  would  so  speedily  vanish.  I 
cannot  write  upon  any  other  subject.    Adieu,  yours  ever.* 

544. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

July  22nd,  1789. 

Am  I  not  an  exact  man  !  The  power  is  executed,  attested, 
and  dispatched  the  same  day  (July  22)  on  which  it  was  received. 
The  appearance  of  liberality  confirms  my  belief  that  we  are 
transacting  with  a  fair  willing  purchaser,  and  inclines  me  to  hope 
that  the  small  defects  of  deeds  will  be  supplied  or  excused. 
Surely  a  great  part  of  our  strict  formalities  is  calculated  for  the 
emolument  of  the  lawyei-s  rather  than  the  security  of  the  parties. 
In  this  simple  country  we  are  far  less  rigid,  and  a  quiet  posses- 
sion of  some  years  (all  mortgages  are  registered)  is  admitted  as 


198  GIBBOX'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

a  sufficient  title.  But  at  all  events,  as  this  letter  \\i\l  not  reach 
you  before  the  third  or  fourth  of  next  month,  I  see  that  the 
flay  of  payment  wiU  be  postponed  beyond  the  31st  of  July. 
Before  this  time  you  \rill  have  received,  weighed  and  answered 
my  important  missive  of  the  loth.  I  am  still  in  a  state  of  doubt 
and  suspense  from  which  yom-  opinion  may  possibly  relieve  me, 
but  I  must  know  whether,  in  case  of  farther  delay,  Sainsbury  will 
advance  the  £2500,  or  rather  £2800,  and  whether  I  may  draw  on 
the  Goslings,  from  whom  1  must  never  expect  any  favour. 

You  say  nothing  of  the  Belvidere.  Have  you  her  legal 
acquiescence  ?  What  security  has  she  chosen  ?  I  think  she 
cannot  last  very  long,  but  I  should  be  hurt  if  her  last  days  were 
embittered  by  any  fears  or  scruples.  As  to  the  money  destined 
for  the  funds  you  had  better  consult  with  David,  He  is  friendly 
and  knowing. 

I  embrace  my  lady,  but  no  longer  dare  talk  of  writing  to  her. 
Maria  must  now  be  in  all  the  glories  of  Lewes  races.  At  Severy's 
we  often  talk  of  the  famiUe.  I  rejoyce  in  the  Douglas  match  : 
it  is  just  such  a  wife  as  I  should  chuse,^  but  I  hope  she  will  still 
live  with  her  father. — Is  your  picture  on  the  road  ?  Mine  shall 
set  out  whenever  you  please.  Are  you  not  amazed  at  the  French 
revolution  ?  They  have  the  power,  will  they  have  the  moderation 
to  establish  a  good  constitution  ?     Adieu. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

545. 
To  Lord  Sheffidd. 

Lausanne,  July  25th,  1789. 

*After  receiving  and  dispatching  the  power  of  attorney,  last 
Wednesday,  I  opened,  with  some  palpitation,  the  unexpected 
missive  which  arrived  this  morning.  The  perusal  of  the  contents 
spoiled  my  breakfast  :  they  are  disagreeable  in  themselves,  alarm- 
ing in  their  consequences,  and  pecuharly  unpleasant  at  the  present 
moment,  when  I  hoped  to  have  formed  and  secured  the  arrange- 
ments of  my  future  life.     I  do  not  perfectly  understand  what  are 

'  It  may  be  mentioned  that  Lord  Sheffield  married,  in  January,  1798,  as 
his  third  wife,  Lady  Anne  North,  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Guilford,  and 
sister  of  Lady  Catherine  Douglas. 


1789.]  DEFECTIVE  TITLE  TO  BERITON.  199 

these  deeds  which  are  so  inflexibly  required ;  the  wills  and 
marriage-settlements  I  have  sufficiently  answered.  But  your 
arguments  do  not  convince  Sainsbury,  and  I  have  very  little 
hope  from  the  Lenborough  search.  What  will  be  the  event  ? 
If  his  objections  are  only  the  result  of  legal  scrupulosity,  surely 
they  might  be  removed,  and  every  chink  might  be  filled,  by  a  general 
bond  of  indemnity,  in  which  I  boldly  ask  you  to  joyn,  as  it  will  be 
a  substantial  important  act  of  friendship,  without  any  possible 
risk  to  yourself  or  your  successors.  Should  he  still  remain 
obdurate,  I  must  beheve  what  I  already  suspect,  that  Lord  Stawell 
repents  of  his  purchase,  and  wishes  to  elude  the  conclusion.  Our 
case  would  be  then  hopeless,  Ibi  omnis  effusus  labor,  and  the 
Estate  would  be  returned  on  our  hands  with  the  taint  of  a  bad 
title.  The  refusal  of  mortgage  does  not  please  me ;  but  surely 
our  offer  shows  some  confidence  in  the  goodness  of  my  title.  If 
he  will  not  take  £8000  di,t  four  per  cent,  we  must  look  out  elsewhere  ; 
new  doubts  and  delays  will  arise,  and  I  am  persuaded  that  you 
will  not  place  an  implicit  confidence  in  Woodcock  or  any  other 
Attorney.  I  know  not  as  yet  your  opinion  about  my  Lausanne 
purchase. 

If  you  are  against  it,  the  present  posture  of  affairs  gives 
you  great  advantage,  &c.,  &c.*  The  purchase  money  of  Buriton 
will  not  be  paid  in  time.  Sainsbury,  if  false,  will  not  advance 
a  shilling,  and  with  the  prospect  of  living  or  rather  starving 
on  a  landed  estate,  I  cannot  afford  to  sell  out  £2500  of  my  short 
annuities.  For  my  own  part  I  hang  in  suspense,  but  if  the 
money  could  be  easily  found  I  rather  incline  to  the  property  as 
simple  and  beneficial. 

I  am  ignorant  of  your  picture  :  mine  shall  depart  by  the 
first  proper  occasion :  but  should  not  some  precautions  be  taken 
with  regard  to  duties  ?  the  importation  of  foreign  pictures  is 
heavily  taxed,  but  a  work  of  Sir  Joshua's  may  surely  return  home. 

*The  Severys  are  all  well ;  an  uncommon  circumstance  for 
the  four  persons  of  the  family  at  once.  They  are  now  at  Mex 
(pronounce  May),  a  country-house  six  miles  from  hence,  which 
I  visit  to-morrow  for  two  or  three  days  :  they  often  come  to 
town,  and  we  shall  contrive  to  pass  a  part  of  the  Autumn  together 
at  Rolle.  I  want  to  change  the  scene  ;  and  beautiful  as  the 
garden  and  prospect  must  appear  to  every  eye,  I  feel  that  the 
state  of  my  own  mind  casts  a  gloom  over  them  ;  every  spot,  every 


200  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

walk,  every  bench,  recalls  the  memory  of  those  hours,  of  those 
conversations,  which  will  return  no  more.  But  I  tear  myself 
from  the  subject.  I  could  not  help  writing  to-day,  though  I  do 
not  find  I  have  said  any  thing  very  material.  As  you  must  be 
conscious  that  you  have  agitated  me,  you  will  not  postpone  any 
agreeable,  or  even  decisive  intelligence.  I  almost  hesitate, 
whether  I  shall  not  run  over  to  England,  to  consult  with  you  on 
the  spot,  and  to  fly  from  poor  Deyverdun's  shade,  which  meets  me 
at  every  turn.  I  did  not  expect  to  have  felt  it  so  sharply.  But 
six  hundred  miles  !  why  are  we  so  far  off  ? 

Once  more,  what  is  the  difficulty  of  the  title  ?  Will  men  of 
sense,  in  a  sensible  Country,  never  get  rid  of  the  tyranny  of 
lawyers  ?  more  oppressive  and  ridiculous  than  even  the  old  yoke 
of  the  Clergy.  Is  not  a  term  of  seventy  or  eighty  years,  near 
twenty  in  my  own  person,  sufficient  to  prove  our  legal  possession  ? 
Will  not  the  record  of  fines  and  recoveries  attest  that  I  am  free 
from  any  bar  of  entails  and  settlements  ?  Consult  some  Sage  of 
the  Law,  whether  their  present  demand  be  necessary  and  legal. 
If  our  ground  be  firm,  force  them  to  execute  the  agreement  or 
forfeit  the  deposit.  But  if,  as  I  much  fear,  they  have  a  right, 
and  a  wish,  to  elude  the  consummation,  would  it  not  be  better  to 
release  them  at  once,  than  to  be  hung  up  five  years,  as  in  the  case 
of  Lovegrove,  which  cost  me  in  the  end  four  or  five  thousand 
pounds  ?    You  are  bold,  you  are  wise  ;  consult,  resolve,  act. 

In  my  penultimate  letter  I  dropped  a  strange  hint,  that  a 
migration  homeward  was  not  impossible.  I  know  not  what  to  say ; 
my  mind  is  all  afloat ;  yet  you  will  not  reproach  me  with  caprice 
or  inconstancy.  How  many  years  did  you  damn  my  scheme  of 
retiring  to  Lausanne  !  I  executed  that  plan ;  I  found  as  much 
happiness  as  is  compatible  with  human  nature,  and  during  four 
years  (1783-1787)  I  never  breathed  a  sigh  of  repentance.  On 
my  return  from  England  the  scene  was  changed  :  I  found  only  a 
faint  semblance  of  Deyverdun,  and  that  semblance  was  each  day 
fading  from  my  sight.  I  have  passed  an  anxious  year,  but  my 
anxiety  is  now  at  an  end,  and  the  prospect  before  me  is  a  melan- 
choly solitude.  I  am  still  deeply  rooted  in  this  country ;  the 
possession  of  this  paradise,  the  friendship  of  the  Severys,  a  mode 
of  society  suited  to  my  taste,  and  the  enormous  trouble  and 
expence  of  a  migration.  Yet  in  England  (when  the  present  clouds 
are  dispelled)  I  could  form  a  very  comfortable  establishment  in 


1789.]         IDEA  OF   ADOPTING  CHARLOTTE  PORTEN.  201 

London,  or  rather  at  Bath  ;  and  I  have  a  very  noble  country- 
seat  about  ten  miles  from  East  Grinstead  in  Sussex.^  That  spot 
is  dearer  to  me  than  the  rest  of  the  three  kingdoms  ;  and  I  have 
sometimes  wondered  how  two  men,  so  opposite  in  their  tempers 
and  pursuits,  should  have  imbibed  so  long  and  lively  a  propensity 
for  each  other. 

Sir  Stanier  Porten^  is  just  dead.  He  has  left  his  widow 
with  a  small  pension,  and  two  children,  my  nearest  relations  : 
the  eldest,  Charlotte,  is  about  Louisa's  age,  and  one  of  the  most 
amiable,  sensible  young  creatures  I  ever  saw.  I  have  con- 
ceived a  romantic  idea  of  educating  and  adopting  her  ;  as  we 
descend  into  the  vale  of  years,  our  infirmities  require  some 
domestic  female  society  :  Charlotte  would  be  the  comfort  of  my 
aije,  and  1  could  reward  her  care  and  tenderness  with  a  decent 
fortune.  A  thousand  difficulties  oppose  the  execution  of  this 
plan,  which  I  have  never  opened  but  to  you  ;  yet  it  would  be  less 
impracticable  in  England  than  in  Switzerland.  Adieu.  I  am 
wounded,  pour  some  oil  into  my  wounds  :  Yet  I  am  less  unhappy 
since  I  have  thrown  my  mind  upon  paper.    Adieu,  ever  yours.* 

546. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Sept.  9,  1789. 

*Within  an  hour  after  the  reception  of  your  last,  I  drew  my 
pen  for  the  purpose  of  a  reply,  and  my  exordium  ran  in  the 
following  words  :  "  I  find  by  experience,  that  it  is  much  more 
rational,  as  well  as  easy,  to  answer  a  letter  of  real  business  by  the 
return  of  the  post."  This  important  truth  is  again  verified  by  my 
own  example.  After  writing  three  pages  I  was  called  away  by  a 
very  rational  motive,  and  the  post  departed  before  I  could  return 
to  the  conclusion.  A  second  delay  was  coloured  by  some  decent 
pretence  :  three  weeks  have  slipped  away,  and  I  now  force  myself 
on  a  task,  which  I  should  have  dispatched  without  an  effort  on 
the  first  summons.  My  only  excuse  is,  that  I  had  httle  to  write 
about  English  business,  and  that  I  could  write  nothing  definitive 
about  my  Swiss  affairs.     And  first,  as  Aristotle  says,  of  the  first, 

'  Alluding  to  Sheffield  Place. 
*  Sir  S.  Porten  died  June  7,  1789. 


202  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

1.  I  was  indeed  in  low  spirits  when  I  sent  what  you  so  justly 
style  my  dismal  letter  ;  but  I  do  assure  you,  that  my  own  feelinus 
contributed  much  more  to  sink  me,  than  any  events  or  terrors 
relative  to  the  sale  of  Buriton.  But  I  again  hope  and  trust,  from 
your  consolatory  epistle,  that*  the  purchasers  are  willing  and 
honest,  that  the  deeds  have  been  produced  or  excused,  and  that 
on  or  before  the  reception  of  this  despatch  (alas,  it  will  be  the 
23rd  perhaps  of  September)  the  money  has  been  paid.  In  all 
this  I  must  be  passive,  but  with  regard  to  Mrs.  Gibbon's,  before  it 
is  again  vested,  I  am  sure  she  will  be  satisfied  with  your  security,  as 
mine  on  the  stock  which  I  already  hold  would  require  new  powers 
of  Attorney,  and  must  be  productive  of  fresh  delay.  But  it  is  a 
whimsical  circumstance  in  my  fate,  that  I  happen  to  receive  the 
largest  sum  which  can  ever  fall  to  my  lot  at  the  time,  when  money 
is  the  most  plenty  and  consequently  bears  the  lowest  value,  when 
good  mortgages  are  so  difficult  to  be  found,  and  when  the  funds 
scarcely  yield  four  per  cent,  interest.  I  wish  Lord  Stawell  would 
take  the  £8000  on  Buriton  even  at  four  per  cent.,  perhaps  his 
proud  stomach  may  be  come  down.  Should  he  still  disdain  it,  I 
listen  with  pleasure  and  gratitude  to  the  proposal  of  your  York- 
shire mortgage  on  the  same  terms,  though  in  general  it  is  more 
advisable  for  friends  to  abstain  from  any  pecuniary  concerns  with 
each  other.  If  you  no  longer  adhere  to  that  idea,  some  sound 
good  mortgage,  if  possible  in  a  register  county,  must  be  found, 
and  I  would  even  stretch  the  loan  to  £10,000,  in  which  case  my 
property  would  be  nearly  divided  between  landed  and  monied 
security  without  reckoning  my  copper  share  or  my  poor  annuity 
in  the  French  funds.  In  the  meanwhile,  that  the  portion  destined 
to  the  mortgage  may  not  lye  dead,  I  isuppose  with  you  that  there 
is  nothing  more  commodious  than  India-bonds.  Will  you  consult 
Barrel  ? 

*2.  My  Swiss  transaction  has  suffered  a  great  alteration.  I 
shall  not  become  the  proprietor  of  my  house  and  garden  at 
Lausanne,  and  I  relinquish  the  fantom  with  more  regret  than 
you  could  easily  imagine.  But  I  have  been  determined  by  a 
difficulty,  which  at  first  appeared  of  little  moment,  but  which  has 
gradually  swelled  to  an  alarming  magnitude.  There  is  a  law  in 
this  country,  as  well  as  in  some  provinces  of  France,  Avhich  is 
styled  "  h  droit  de  retrait,  le  retrait  Ugnager  "  (Lord  Loughborough 
must  have  heard  of  it),  by  which  the  relations  of  the  deceased  are 


1789,]  LIFE-INTEREST  IN  DEYVERDUN'S  HOUSE.  203 

entitled  to  redeem  an  house  or  estate  at  the  price  for  which  it  has 
been  sold  ;  and  as  the  sum  fixed  by  poor  Deyverdun  is  much 
below  its  known  value,  a  crowd  of  competitors  are  beginning  to 
start.  The  best  opinions  (for  they  are  divided)  are  in  my  favour, 
that  I  am  not  subject  to  "  the  droit  de  retrail^^  since  I  take  not  as 
a  purchaser,  but  as  a  legatee.  But  the  words  of  the  Will  are 
somewhat  ambiguous,  the  event  of  law  is  always  uncertain,  the 
administration  of  justice  at  Berne  (the  last  appeal)  depends  too 
much  on  favour  and  intrigue  ;  and  it  is  very  doubtful  whether  I 
could  revert  to  the  life-holding,  after  having  chosen  and  lost  the 
property.  These  considerations  engaged  me  to  open  a  negotiation 
with  Mr.  de  Montagny,  through  the  medium  of  my  friend  the 
Judge ;  and  as  he  most  ardently  wishes  to  keep  the  house,  he 
consented,  though  with  some  reluctance,  to  my  proposals.  Yester- 
day he  signed  a  covenant  in  the  most  regular  and  binding  form, 
by  which  he  allows  my  power  of  transferring  my  interest,  interprets 
in  the  most  ample  sense  my  right  of  making  alterations,  and 
expressly  renounces  all  claim,  as  landlord,  of  visiting  or  inspecting 
the  premisses.  I  have  promised  to  lend  him  12,000  Livres, 
(between  seven  and  eight  hundred  pounds),  secured  on  the  house 
and  land.  The  mortgage  is  four  times  its  value  ;  the  interest  at 
four  per  cent,  will  be  annually  discharged  by  the  rent  of  thirty 
guineas,  and  I  shall  have  an  additional  hold  on  his  good  behaviour. 
So  that  I  am  now  tranquil  on  that  score  for  the  remainder  of  my 
days.  I  hope  that  time  will  gradually  reconcile  me  to  the  place 
which  I  have  inhabited  with  my  poor  friend  ;  for  in  spite  of  the 
cream  of  London,  I  am  still  persuaded  that  no  other  residence  is 
so  well  adapted  to  my  taste  and  habits  of  studious  and  social  life. 
Far  from  delighting  in  the  whirl  of  a  Metropolis,  my  only 
complaint  against  Lausanne  is  the  great  number  of  strangers, 
always  of  Enghsh,  and  now  of  French,  by  whom  we  are  infested 
in  summer.  Yet  we  have  escaped  the  damned  great  ones,  the 
Count  d'Artois,^  the  Polignacs,^  &c.  who  slip  by  us  to  Turin. 

»  The  Comte  d'Artois  (1757-1836),  brother  of  Louis  XVI.,  and  afterwards 
Charles  X.,  was  one  of  the  earliest  ^migr^s. 

'  Yolande  Martine  Gabrielle  de  Polastron,  Duchesse  de  Polignac  (1749- 
1793),  was  the  most  intimate  friend  of  Marie  Antoinette.  To  her  and  her 
royal  mistress  public  opinion  attributed  many  of  the  worst  evils  of  the 
monarchy.  When  the  daughter  of  the  duchess  married  the  Due  de  Guiche 
(afterwards  Due  de  Grammont),  tlie  king  gave  the  bride  a  dower  of  800,000 
livres.    *'  Mille  e'cus,"  said  Mirabeau,  "  a  la  famille  d'Assas  pour  avoir  sauve 


204  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

What  a  scene  is  France  !  "While  the  assembly  is  voting  abstract 
propositions,  Paris  is  an  independent  Eepublic  ;  the  provinces 
have  neither  authority  nor  freedom,  and  poor  Necker^  declares 
that  credit  is  no  more,  and  that  the  people  refuse  to  pay  taxes. 
Yet  I  think  you  must  be  seduced  by  the  abolition  of  tythes.  If 
Eden  goes  to  Paris  you  may  have  some  curious  confidential 
information.  Give  me  some  account  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Douglas ; 
do  they  live  with  Lord  North  ?  I  hope  they  do.  When  will 
parliament  be  dissolved  ?  Are  you  still  Coventry  mad  ?  I 
embrace  My  Lady,  the  stately  Maria,  and  the  smiling  Louisa. 
Alas !  Alas  !  you  will  never  come  to  Switzerland.  Adieu,  ever 
yours.* 

547. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Sept.  25th,  1789. 

*Alas !  what  perils  do  environ 
The  man  who  meddles  with  cold  iron. 

Alas  !  what  delays  and  difficulties  do  attend  the  man  who 
meddles  with  legal  and  landed  business  !  yet  if  it  be  only  to 
disappoint  your  expectation,  I  am  not  so  very  nervous  at  this 
new  provoking  obstacle.  I  had  totally  forgotten  the  deed  in 
question,  which  was  contrived  by  the  two  trustees  to  tye  his 
hands  and  regulate  the  disorder  of  his  affairs  (in  the  last  year  of 
my  father's  life)  ;  and  which  might  have  been  so  easily  cancelled 
by  Sir  Stanier,  who  had  not  the  smallest  interest  in  it,  either  for 
himself  or  his  family.  The  amicable  suit  which  is  now  become 
necessary  must,  I  think,  be  short  and  unambiguous,  yet  I  cannot 
help  dreading  the  crotchets  that  lurk  under  the  Chancellor's  great 
wig ;  and,  at  all  events,  I  foresee  some  additional  delay  and 

I'Etat,  un  million  k  la  famille  de  Polignac  pour  Tavoir  perdu."  (The 
Chevalier  d'Assas  lost  his  life  in  an  heroic  action  at  Klostercamp,  October 
15-16,  1760.  The  Government  of  Louis  XV.  allowed  him  to  go  unrewarded. 
Louis  XVI.,  at  the  instigation  of  Marie  Antoinette,  conferred  on  his  family 
a  perpetual  pension  of  1000  limes.')  The  duchess  emigrated  with  her  husband 
shortly  after  the  taking  of  the  Bastille.  She  died  at  Vienna  in  December, 
1793,  her  death  being,  it  is  said,  hastened  by  the  murder  of  Marie  Antoinette. 
Her  second  son,  afterwards  Prince  de  Polignac,  was  the  favourite  minister 
of  Charles  X. 

'  Necker  was  dismissed  July  11,  1789,  and  ordered  to  quit  the  kingdom. 


1789.]  THE  AUTHORITY  OF  BLACKSTONE.  205 

expencc.  The  golden  pill  of  the  £2800  has  soothed  my  discontent ; 
and  if  it  be  safely  lodged  with  the  Goslings,  I  agree  with  you  in 
considering  it  as  an  unequivocal  pledge  of  a  fair  and  willing 
purchaser.  It  is,  indeed,  chiefly  in  that  light  that  I  now  rejoyce 
in  so  large  a  deposit,  which  is  no  longer  necessary  in  its  full 
extent.  You  are  apprized  by  my  last  letter  that  I  have  reduced 
myself  to  the  life  enjoyment  of  the  house  and  garden,  and,  in 
spite  of  my  feelings,  I  am  every  day  more  convinced  that  I  have 
chosen  the  safer  side.  I  believe  my  cause  to  have  been  good,  but 
it  was  doubtful :  law  in  this  country  is  not  so  expensive  as  in 
England,  but  it  is  more  troublesome.  I  must  have  gone  to  Bern, 
have  solicited  my  Judges  in  person — a  vile  custom !  the  event 
was  doubtful,  and  during  at  least  two  years,  I  should  have  been 
in  a  state  of  suspense  and  anxiety  :  till  the  conclusion  of  which  it 
would  have  been  madness  to  have  attempted  any  alteration  or 
improvement. 

According  to  my  present  arrangement  I  shall  want  no  more 
than  eleven  hundred  pounds  of  the  £2000,  and  I  suppose  you 
will  direct  Gosling  to  lay  out  the  remainder  in  East  India 
bonds,  that  it  may  not  lye  quite  dead,  while  I  am  accountable 
to  Sainsbury  for  the  interest.*  I  presume  that  I  am  entitled 
till  the  consummation  to  the  rents  of  Buriton  :  a  little  drop  of 
honey  is  collected  from  Lady-day  to  Michaelmas,  and  Andrews 
is  I  hope  instructed  to  squeeze  the  bag  without  delay  or  mercy  : 
the  Tenant  deserves  none. 

*The  elderly  Lady  in  a  male  habit,  who  informed  me  that 
Yorkshire  is  a  register  County,  is  a  certain  Judge,  one  Sir 
William  Blackstone,  whose  name  you  may  possibly  have  heard. 
After  stating  the  danger  of  purchasers  and  creditors,  with 
regard  to  the  title  of  estates  on  which  they  lay  out  or  lend 
their  money,  he  thus  continues  :  "In  Scotland  every  act  and 
event  regarding  the  transmission  of  property  is  regularly  entered 
on  record ;  And  some  of  our  own  provincial  divisions,  par- 
ticularly the  extended  county  of  York  and  the  populous  county 
of  Middlesex,  have  prevailed  with  the  Legislature  to  erect  such 
registers  in  their  respective  districts."  (Blackstone's  Com- 
mentaries, Vol.  ii.  p.  343,  Edition  of  1774,  in  quarto.)  If  I  am 
mistaken,  it  is  in  pretty  good  company  ;  but  I  suspect  that  we  are 
all  right,  and  that  the  register  is  confined  to  one  or  two  Ridings. 
As  we  have,  alas  !  two  or  three  months  before  us,  I  should  hopa 


206  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

that  your  prudent  sagacity  will  discover  some  sound  land,  in  case 
you  should  not  have  time  to  arrange  your  own  Mortgage. 

I  now  write  in  a  hurry,  as  I  am  just  setting  out  for  RoUe,  where 
I  shall  be  settled  with  cook  and  servants  in  a  pleasant  apartment 
till  the  middle  of  November.  The  Severys  have  a  house  there, 
where  they  pass  the  Autumn.  I  am  not  sorry  to  vary  the  scene  for 
a  few  weeks,  and  I  wish  to  be  absent  while  some  alterations  are 
making  in  my  house  at  Lausanne.  I  wish  the  change  of  air  may 
be  of  service  to  Severy  the  father,  but  we  do  not  at  all  like  his 
present  state  of  health.  How  compleatly,  alas,  how  compleatly ! 
could  I  now  lodge  you :  but  your  firm  resolve  of  making  me 
a  visit  seems  to  have  vanished  like  a  dream.  Next  summer  you 
will  not  find  five  hundred  pounds  for  a  rational  friendly  expedi- 
tion :  and  should  parliament  be  dissolved,  you  will  perhaps  find 
five  thousand  for  ****.  I  cannot  think  of  it  with  patience. 
Pray  take  serious  strenuous  measures  for  sending  me  a  pipe  of 
excellent  Madeira  in  cask,  with  some  dozens  of  Malmsey  Madeira. 
It  should  be  consigned  to  Messrs.  Romberg,  Voituriers,  at 
Ostend,  and  I  must  have  timely  notice  of  its  march.  "We  have 
so  much  to  say  about  France,  that  I  suppose  we  shall  never  say 
anything.     That  country  is  now  in  a  state  of  dissolution.   Adieu.* 

548. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  December  5tb,  1789. 

My  Dear  Madam, 

I  need  not  repeat  what  we  have  both  so  often  felt  and 
acknowledged,  that  between  us  silence  is  never  the  effect  of 
coldness  or  forgetfulness,  yet  when  I  recollect  that  your  second 
letter  is  still  unanswered,  a  conscious  blush  rises  to  my  cheek. 
Our  mutual  friendship  we  have  no  occasion  to  express,  of  our 
health  and  situation  we  may  have  frequent  accounts  by  the  channel 
of  Lord  Sheffield  and  Mrs.  Holroyd ;  mere  topics  of  Epistolary 
conversation  do  not  readily  occur  between  distant  friends,  but  you 
ask  me  some  questions  of  an  interesting  nature  and  your  kind 
curiosity  it  is  incumbent  on  me  to  satisfy. 

The  disposal  of  Buriton  I  think  you  cannot  disapprove.  A 
distant  landed  estate  is  the  worst  kind  of  property,  and  you  will 
not  be  surprized  to  hear  that  after  the  payment  of  every  expence 


1789.]  IRKEPARABLE  LOSS  OF  A  FRIEND.  207 

and  every  deduction,  the  remainder  of  the  clear  income  \ya8  little 
more  than  sufficient  for  the  annual  supply,  which  I  hope  will  bo 
long,  very  long,  offered  to  the  Belvidere  at  Bath.  The  neglect, 
I  will  not  give  it  an  harsher  name,  of  Hugonin  cost  me  last  year 
above  seven  hundred  pounds  ;  yet  after  his  death,  where  could  I 
have  found  a  more  creditable  agent  ?  At  sixteen  thousand  pounds 
Lord  Sheffield  does  not  think  Buriton  ill  sold,  especially  as  four 
or  five  thousand  more  must  be  added  which  I  had  already  received 
from  the  sale  of  Horn  and  Harris's  farms.  Some  forms  of  law 
have  delayed  the  final  conclusion,  but  I  expect  to  hear  every  post 
of  the  payment  of  the  money,  and  you  will  re  Joyce  to  hear,  what 
I  assure  on  my  honour  is  true,  that  every  shilling  is  my  own,  and 
that  prudence,  without  any  pressure  of  distress  or  debt,  is  the  sole 
motive  of  my  conduct.  The  entire  sum  I  mean  to  divide  between 
the  stocks  and  a  good  mortgage,  that  at  all  events  I  may  have  a 
sound  leg  to  stand  upon.  I  hope  you  are  satisfied  with  the 
arrangement  of  your  jointure  :  Lord  Sheffield  cannot  forget  the 
burthen  of  every  one  of  my  letters,  "  Unless  Mrs.  G.  be  safe  and 
easy,  I  cannot  be  so." 

When  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  at  Bath  two  years  ago, 
you  may  remember  the  melancholy  account  which  I  gave  you  of 
poor  Deyverdun.  On  my  return  to  Lausanne  I  found  him  much 
altered  for  the  worse  ;  he  was  attacked  by  a  succession  of  Apoplectic 
fits,  and  after  a  general  decay,  he  died  last  July,  when  his  life 
could  be  no  longer  desirable  for  himself  or  his  friends.  The  loss 
of  a  friend  of  five  and  thirty  years  is  irreparable,  and  each  day  I 
feel  the  comfortless  solitude  to  which  I  am  reduced.  By  his 
will  he  designed  that  I  should  possess  the  delightful  house  and 
garden  which  I  inhabit :  and  which  have  not,  I  believe,  their  equal 
in  Europe ;  by  a  subsequent  arrangement  with  his  heir,  in  which 
both  find  their  advantage,  I  have  secured  the  free  and  indisputable 
enjoyment  for  my  life,  and  have  already  made  some  agreable  and 
useful  alterations.  I  still  like  the  people  and  the  country,  and 
here  I  shall  probably  spend  the  latter  season  of  life,  with  the 
resolution  however  of  visiting  England  every  three  or  four  years. 
I  have  often  regretted  that  your  imperfect  knowledge  of  the 
Erench  language  never  allowed  me  to  seduce  you  to  this  place. 
I  am  sure  you  would  have  pleased  and  been  pleased  in  the  circle 
of  my  familiar  acquaintance. 

My  health  was  never  so  good  as  it  is  at  present,  and  since 


208  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1780. 

my  unseasonable  attack  at  Bath  I  have  not  felt  the  slightest 

return  of  the  gout.     You  may  possibly  hear  that  Mr.  Gibbon 

has  undertaken  some  new  history ;  be  persuaded,  if  I  know  his 

intentions,  that  after  six  weighty  quartos,  he  now  reads  and 

writes  for  his  own  amusement,  though  I  will  not  answer  for  what 

those  amusements  may  one  day  produce.    You  may  likewise  hear 

of  tumults  and  rebellions  in   Switzerland.     Be  persuaded,  that 

the  popular  madness  of  France  and  Flanders  has  not  reached 

these  tranquil  regions,  and  that  the  Swiss  have  sense  enough  to 

feel  and  maintain  their  own  happiness,  which  is  endeared  to  them 

by  the  disorders  of  the  neighbouring  countries. 

Adieu,  Dear  Madam  ;  I  grieve  for  you  and  for  myself  that  we 

are  now  entering  into  the  cold  and  dreary  season,  but  I  sincerely 

hope  that  you  will  find  strength  and  spirits  to  lay  this  and  many 

other  winters  at  your  feet. 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 

549. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  December  15th,  1789. 
*You  have  often  reason  to  accuse  my  strange  silence  and 
neglect  in  the  most  important  of  my  own  affairs ;  for  I  will 
presume  to  assert,  that  in  a  business  of  yours  of  equal  consequence, 
you  should  not  find  me  cold  or  careless.  But  on  the  present 
occasion  my  silence  is,  perhaps,  the  highest  compliment  I  ever 
paid  you.  You  remember  the  answer  of  Philip  of  Macedon  : 
"  Philip  may  sleep,  while  he  knows  that  Parmenio  is  awake."  I 
expected,  and,  to  say  the  truth,  I  wished  that  my  Parmenio 
would  have  decided  and  acted,  without  expecting  my  dilatory 
answer,  and  in  his  decision  I  should  have  acquiesced  with  implicit 
confidence.  But  since  you  wOl  have  my  opinion,  let  us  consider 
the  present  state  of  my  affairs.  In  the  course  of  my  life  I  have 
often  known,  and  sometimes  felt,  the  difficulty  of  getting  money, 
but  I  now  find  myself  involved  in  a  much  more  singular  distress, 
the  difficulty  of  placing  it,  and  if  it  continues  much  longer,  I 
shall  almost  wish  for  my  land  again. 

I  perfectly  agree  with  you,  that  it  is  bad  management  to« 
purchase  in  the  funds  when  they  do  not  yield  four  per  cent.,* 


1789.]  GLORIOUS  OPPORTUNITY  OF  FRANCE.  209 

and  I  incline  every  day  more  and  more  to  the  cncrcase  of  the 
mortgage.  I  am  much  mistaken  if  in  my  last  letter  I  did  not 
extend  the  sum  as  £10,000  pounds,  Avhich  would  make,  as  I 
remember  to  have  said,  about  an  equal  partition  of  my  property. 
Can  that  sum  be  called,  even  in  your  wealthy  island,  so  very  in- 
considerable ?  I  would  even  give  somewhat  larger  latitude  (even 
as  far  as  £12,000  if  I  preserve  a  right  of  calling  in  a  fourth  or  a 
moiety  on  reasonable  notice).  Is  it  possible  that  in  seven  or 
eight  months  no  good  and  clear  security  can  be  found,  especially 
if  I  am  forced  to  be  content  with  the  scanty  interest  of  four  per 
cent.  ?  Yet  I  approve  your  diffidence  and  caution  :  in  the  concerns 
of  our  friends  even  cowardice  is  a  virtue.  The  doubtful  title  of 
a  mortgage  might  distress  and  perplex  me  for  the  remainder  of 
my  hfe,  and  you  would  not  easily  forgive  yourself  for  having 
been  the  innocent  author  of  my  calamities.  Bather  than  expose 
myself  to  such  a  risk,  I  would  try  whether  some  great  banker 
would  not  be  disposed  to  give  low  interest  and  firm  security  for 
my  money  till  it  should  be  called  for,  or  at  all  events  I  would 
deposit  it  in  the  Bank  for  six  months  or  a  year,  and  live  on  the 
principal  till  you  could  find  an  unquestionable  opportunity  of 
placing  it  on  landed  property.  *Some  of  this  money  I  can  place- 
safely  and  advantageously  by  means  of  my  banker  here  ;  and  I 
shall  possess,  what  I  have  always  desired,  a  command  of  cash,  which 
I  cannot  abuse  to  my  prejudice,  since  I  have  it  in  my  power  to  - 
supply  by  my  pen  any  extraordinary  or  fanciful  indulgence  of 
expence.    And  so  much — much,  indeed — for  pecuniary  matters. 

What  would  you  have  me  say  of  the  affairs  of  France  ?  we 
are  too  near,  and  too  remote,  to  form  an  accurate  judgment  of 
that  wonderful  scene.  The  abuses  of  the  court  and  government 
called  aloud  for  reformation ;  and  it  has  happened,  as  it  will 
always  happen,  that  an  innocent,  well-disposed  prince  has  paid 
the  forfeits  of  the  sins  of  his  predecessors  ;  of  the  ambition  of 
the  Lewis  XIV.,  of  the  profusion  of  Lewis  XV.  The  French 
nation  had  a  glorious  opportunity,  but  they  have  abused,  and 
may  lose  their  advantages.  If  they  had  been  content  with  a 
liberal  translation  of  our  system,  if  they  had  respected  the  pre- 
rogatives of  the  crown,  and  the  privileges  of  the  Nobles,  they 
might  have  raised  a  solid  fabric,  on  the  only  true  foundation,  the 
natm-al  Aristocracy  of  a  great  Country.  How  different  is  the 
prospect !     Their  King  brought  a  captive  to   Faris,  after  his 

VOL.  II.  P 


210  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1789. 

palace  had  been  stained  with  the  blood  of  his  guards  ;  the  Nobles 
in  exile  ;  the  Clergy  plundered  in  a  way  which  strikes  at  the  root 
of  all  property  ;  the  capital  an  independent  Republic  ;  the  union 
of  the  provinces  dissolved ;  the  flames  of  discord  kindled  by  the 
worst  of  men ;  (in  that  light  I  consider  Mirabeau  ;)  and  the 
honestest  of  the  Assembly  a  set  of  wild  Visionaries,  (like  our  Dr. 
Price,^)  who  gravely  debate,  and  dream  about  the  establishment 
of  a  pure  and  perfect  democracy  of  five-and-twenty  millions,  the 
virtues  of  the  golden  age,  and  the  primitive  rights  and  equality 
of  mankind,  which  would  lead,  in  fair  reasoning,  to  an  equal 
partition  of  lands  and  money.  How  many  years  must  elapse 
before  France  can  recover  any  vigour,  or  resume  her  station 
among  the  powers  of  Europe !  As  yet,  there  is  no  symptom  of 
a  great  man,  a  Richelieu  or  a  Cromwell,  arising,  either  to  restore 
the  Monarchy,  or  to  lead  the  Commonwealth.  The  weight  of 
Paris,  more  deeply  engaged  in  the  funds  than  all  the  rest  of  the 
Kingdom,  will  long  delay  a  bankrupcy  ;  and  if  it  should  happen, 
it  will  be,  both  in  the  cause  and  effect,  a  measure  of  weakness, 
rather  than  of  strength. 

You  send  me  to  Chamberry,  to  see  a  prince  and  an  Arch- 
bishop. Alas  !  we  have  exiles  enough  here,  with  the  Marshal 
de  Castries^  and  the  Duke  de  Guignes'  at  their  head  :  and  this 
inundation  of  strangers,  which  used  to  be  confined  to  the  summer, 
will  now  stagnate  all  the  winter.     The  only  ones  whom  I  have 

»  Richard  Price,  D.D.  (1723-1791),  the  celebrated  mathematician  and 
economic  writer  {Observations  on  Reversionary  Payments,  Annuitiesy  etc., 
1769;  Appeal  on  the  Subject  of  the  National  Debt,  1772),  the  opponent  of  Dr. 
Priestley  {A  Free  Discussion  of  the  Doctrine  of  Materialism  and  Philosophical 
Necessity,  1778),  was  also  a  voluminous  political  writer,  a  champion  of  the 
cause  of  American  Independence,  and  an  advocate  of  principles  then  regarded 
as  revolutionary.  His  Observations  on  the  Nature  of  Civil  Liberty  (1776) 
procured  him  an  invitation  from  Congress  to  come  and  reside  in  America. 
In  1789  he  published  his  Discourse  on  the  Love  of  our  Country,  severely 
criticized  by  Burke  in  his  Reflections  on  (he  Revolution  in  France.  His  last 
work,  Britain's  Happiness,  was  published  in  1791,  the  year  of  his  death. 

«  The  Marquis  de  Castries  (1727-1801),  Marshal  of  France  (1783),  had 
served  in  the  Seven  Years'  War,  was  Ministre  de  la  Marine  1780-87,  and 
in  1792  held  a  command  in  the  Prussian  army  of  invasion.  He  died  at 
Wolfenbuttel  in  1801. 

'  Adrien  Louis  de  Bonnieres,  Comte,  afterwards  Due,  de  Guines  (1735- 
1806),  had  been  ambassador  in  England,  1770-76.  As  ambassador  at 
Berlin  he  had  been  a  favourite  with  Frederick  the  Great,  with  whom  he 
played  the  flute.     He  emigrated  at  the  beginning  of  the  Revolution. 


1789.]  FRENCH  EXILES  AT  LAUSANNE.  211 

seen  with  pleasure  are  M.  Mounier/  the  late  president  of  the 
National  Assembly,  and  the  Count  de  Lally  ;  ^  they  have  both 
dined  with  me.  Mounier,  who  is  a  serious  dry  politician,  is 
returned  to  Dauphine.  Lally  is  an  amiable  man  of  the  "World, 
and  a  poet :  he  passes  the  winter  here  with  his  female  friend 
the  Princess  d'Henin.^  You  know  how  much  I  prefer  a  quiet 
select  society  to  a  crowd  of  names  and  titles,  and  that  I  always 
seek  conversation  with  a  view  to  amusement  rather  than  informa- 
tion. What  happy  countries  are  England  and  Switzerland,  if  they 
know  and  preserve  their  happiness. 

I  have  a  thousand  things  to  say  of  My  Lady,  Maria,  and 
Louisa,  but  I  can  add  only  a  short  postscript  about  the  Madeira 
and  picture. 

1.  Good  Madeira  is  now  become  essential  to  my  health  and 
reputation.  May  your  hogshead  prove  as  good  as  the  last ;  may 
it  not  be  intercepted  by  the  rebels  or  the  Austrians.  What  a 
scene  again  in  that  country !  Happy  England  !  happy  Switzer- 
land I  *  I  again  repeat  I  must  have  early  notice  of  my  wine's 
approach,  that  I  may  send  a  permit  to  meet  it  at  Basil. 

*  J.  Joseph  Mounier  (1758-1806),  the  autlior  of  Considerations  tur  le 
gouvernement  qui  convient  a  la  France  (1789),  was  a  prominent  champion  of 
constitutional  liberty  in  the  States-General  and  the  National  Assembly.  He 
emigrated  at  the  end  of  1789. 

«  Ge'rard,  Marquis  de  Lally-ToUendal  (1751-1830),  the  son  of  the 
unfortunate  governor  of  the  French  possessions  in  India,  emigrated  after  the 
events  of  October  5-6,  1789.  Returning  to  France  in  1792,  he  was  arrested 
after  August  10,  and  imprisoned  in  the  Abbaye ;  he  escaped  and  took  refuge 
in  England. 

'  Etiennette  de  Montconseil,  daughter  of  the  Marquis  de  Montconseil, 
married,  in  1766,  Charles  Alexandre  Marc  Marcellin  d'Alsace-He'nin-Lietard, 
Prince  d'He'nin,  brother  of  the  Prince  de  Chimay  and  Madame  de  Cambis, 
and  nephew  of  the  Mare'chale  de  Mirepoix  and  the  Prince  de  Beauvau.  The 
princess  was  appointed  in  1778  dame  du  palaig  in  the  household  of  Marie 
Antoinette.  Her  intimate  relations  with  Lally-Tollendal  were  well  known- 
Madame  D'Arblay,  who  knew  her  well,  says  of  her,  twenty  years  later,  that 
"  Lally  was  her  admiring  and  truly  devoted  friend,  and  by  many  believed 
to  be  privately  married  to  her.  I  am  myself  of  that  opinion  "  (Diary  and 
Letters,  vii.  89).  The  Prince  d'He'nin  was  captain  of  the  body-guard  of  the 
Comte  d'Artois.  He  played  a  conspicuous  part  in  the  chronique  scandaleuse 
of  the  day.  His  afifection  for  Sophie  Arnould  gave  rise  to  the  following 
verses  of  the  Marquis  de  Louvois  : — 

"  Chez  la  doyenne  des  eating 
Ta  place  est  des  plus  minces. 
Tu  n'es  plus  le  prince  d'He'nin, 
Mais  bien  le  naiu  des  princes." 


212  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1790. 

2.  To  whom  did  you  entrust  the  picture  ^  and  Eennel's  ^  maps  ? 
I  have  not  heard  of  either.  Was  it  to  Ebnsley  ?  I  have  expected 
these  many  months  a  box  of  books,  &c.,  which  he  announced. 
Will  you  not  clear  up  the  point  ?  My  picture  expects  a  safe 
occasion.    Adieu. 

550. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  January  27th,  1790. 

*Your  two  last  epistles,  of  the  7th  and  11th  instant,  were 
somewhat  delayed  on  the  road ;  they  arrived  within  two  days  of 
each  other,  the  last  this  morning,  (the  27th)  ;  so  that  I  answer 
by  the  first,  or  at  least  by  the  second  post.  Upon  the  whole, 
your  French  method,  though  sometimes  more  rapid,  appears  to 
me  less  sure  and  steady  than  the  old  German  highway.* 

I  will  not  deny  (for  it  was  probably  too  visible)  that  your 
proposal,  which  arose  from  the  kindest  motives,  of  your  Yorkshire 
mortgage  embarrassed  me  from  the  beginning,  and  whatever  faint 
signs  of  acquiescence  I  may  have  given,  they  proceeded  from  the 
apprehension  of  wounding  your  honourable  feelings  by  anything 
that  might  bear  the  appearance  of  doubt  and  distrust.  I  could 
not  reconcile  the  two  characters  of  debtor  and  friend,  and  I  was 
shocked  by  the  idea,  however  distant  or  unlikely,  that  in  a  serious 
concern  our  interests  might  possibly  become  opposite  to  each 
other.  Your  first  letter  relieved  me  from  that  weight,  and  I 
viewed  with  much  less  horror  the  chance  of  leaving  the  purchase 
money  for  some  time  idle  and  unproductive  in  the  bank  :  yet  I 
could  not  entirely  subscribe  to  your  charge  that  I  had  changed  my 
principles.  Eight  thousand  pounds  had  been  always  designed  for 
the  mortgage  :  you  object  (to  my  great  surprize)  that  good  landed 
security  cannot  easily  be  found  for  so  small  a  sum ;  I  agree  to 
enlarge  it ;  where  is  the  change  or  contradiction  ?  I  confess 
however  that  the  very  high  price  of  the  Stocks  has  rendered  me 
less  eager  for  an  investment  which  at  present  will  not  even 

'  Probably  Lord  SbeflBeld's  portrait,  painted  by  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  in 
March,  1788. 

*  Major  James  Rennell  (1742-1832)  had  already  published  his  Maps  of 
Bengal  and  of  the  Mogul  Empire.  His  geographical  work  on  Africa  and 
map  appeared  in  1790. 


1790.]  DIRTY  LAND  AND  VILE  MONEY,  213 

produce  the  four  per  cent.,  and  which  rather  aifords  the  danger 
of  a  fall  than  the  hopes  of  a  rise.  You  are  likewise  inaccurate 
when  you  accuse  me  of  having  already  drawn  near  £2000  of  the 
purchase  money. 

But  enough  of  these  altercations.  *A  new  and  brighter  prospect 
seems  to  be  breaking  upon  us,  and  few  events  of  that  hind  have 
ever  given  me  more  pleasure  than  your  successful  negotiation  and 
Sainsbury's  satisfactory  answer.  The  agreement  is,  indeed,  equally 
convenient  for  both  parties  :  no  time  or  expence  will  be  wasted 
in  scrutinizing  the  title  of  the  estate  ;  the  interest  will  be  secured 
by  the  clause  of  five  per  cent.,  and  I  lament  with  you,  that  no 
larger  sum  than  £8000  can  be  placed  on  Beriton,  without  asking 
(what  might  be  somewhat  impudent)  a  collateral  security,  &c.,  &c.* 
As  I  do  not  mean  to  entrap  them,  the  allowance  of  a  month  is 
perfectly  right  and  in  truth  immaterial.  As  the  purchase  money 
is  by  this  arrangement  very  much  reduced,  they  will  now  pay  it, 
I  suppose,  whenever  you  please,  and  perhaps  (you  will  judge)  it 
may  be  as  well  to  consummate  on  Lady  Day,  that  I  may  be 
entitled  to  another  half  year's  rent  from  the  Tenant.  The  power 
of  calling  in  the  Mortgage,  I  only  meant  as  a  superfluous  pre- 
caution, but  I  suppose  there  will  be  some  restraint  on  their  paying 
it  off  whenever  they  please,  perhaps  at  a  time  inconvenient  to  the 
creditor.  After  Lord  Stawell  has  paid  or  secured  £10,800  there 
will  still  remain  (subject  to  I  know  not  what  charges)  £5200. 
While  the  stocks  are  so  very  high  as  not  to  yield  four  per  cent., 
might  it  not  be  expedient  to  trust  it  in  two  or  three  loans  in 
good  personal  bond  security  at  four  and  a  half  ?  Would  not 
the  Goslings  for  the  consideration  of  the  half  per  cent,  bind 
themselves  to  answer  for  the  interest  and  principal.  In  their 
business  they  have  always  a  command  of  money,  and  if  the 
security  be  such  as  I  ought  to  accept,  the  risk  for  themselves 
must  be  very  inconsiderable.  *But  I  wish  you  to  chuse  and 
execute  one  or  the  other  of  these  arrangements  with  sage  dis- 
cretion and  absolute  power. 

I  shorten  my  letter,  that  I  may  dispatch  it  by  this  post. 
I  see  the  time,  and  I  shall  rejoyce  to  see  it  at  the  end  of 
twenty  years,  when  my  cares  will  be  at  an  end,  and  our  friendly 
pages  will  be  no  longer  sullied  with  the  repetition  of  dirty  land 
and  vile  money  ;  when  we  may  expatiate  on  the  politics  of  the 
World  and  our  personal  sentiments.    Without  expecting  your 


214  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [179a 

answer  of  business,  I  mean  to  write  soon  in  a  purer  style, 
and  I  wish  to  lay  open  to  my  friend  the  state  of  my  mind, 
which  (exclusive  of  all  worldly  concerns)  is  not  perfectly  at 
ease.  In  the  mean  while,  I  must  add  two  or  three  short 
articles.  1.  I  am  astonished  at  Elmsly's  silence,  and  the  immo- 
bility of  your  picture.  Mine  should  have  departed  long  since, 
could  I  have  found  a  sure  opportunity.*  It  had  almost  started 
last  week  had  I  not  been  afraid  of  rolling  it,  but  I  think  that 
a  person  on  whom  we  may  depend  will  undertake  the  journey 
and  commission  about  the  middle  of  next  month.  2.  I  shall 
expect  the  Madeira  with  impatience  if  it  is  remarkable.  I  have 
not  any  objection  to  the  two  hogsheads,  but  perhaps  one  may 
suffice,  as  I  have  a  promise  from  Sir  Kalph  Payne,  with  whom 
you  may  confabulate  on  the  subject  if  you  excurse  to  London. 
3.  Give  me  some  account  of  the  two  old  Ladies.  I  no  longer 
write  to  Cliffe,  as  I  suppose  her  (perhaps  erroneously)  incapable 
of  correspondence.  I  embrace  My  Lady,  &c.  When  shall  I  see 
them  at  Lausanne  or  Sheffield  Place  ?  the  one  must  take  place  if 

the  other  does  not.    Adieu. 

Yours, 

E.  G. 

P.S.— If  you  met  with  another  neat,  safe,  little  mortgage  of 

£2000  I  have  no  objection.    Since  I  have  again  opened  my  letter, 

I  will  ask  you  how  the  property  of  an  Ecclesiastical  differs  from 

that  of  a  lay  Corporation,  and  whether  you  think  Parliament 

could  legally  seize  and  appropriate  the  lands   of  the  City  of 

London.     If  either  Corporation  was  mischievous.  Government 

might  indeed  extinguish  it  in  time,  by  prohibiting  a  supply  of 

new  members,  and  the  vacant  property  would  perhaps  devolve  to 

the  public.     No  change  of  events  or  opinions  in  France  :  next 

month  will  be  critical  from  the  Provincial  Assemblies. 

551. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  May  15th,  1790. 

*Since  the  first  origin  {(ih  ovo)  of  our  connection  and  corre- 
spondence, so  long  an  interval  of  silence  has  not  intervened,  as 
far  as  I  remember,  between  us.*  Yet  on  the  present  occasion 
neither  is  materially  to  blame,  nor  has  either  been  materially 


1790.]  LEGAL  FORMS  BENEFIT  LAWYERS.  215 

injured.  My  conscience  was  easy,  since  my  last  letter,  I  felt 
myself  in  the  proud  security  of  a  creditor,  and  though  after  a 
certain  space  I  waited  every  post  for  an  answer,  yet  I  waited  with 
little  impatience  and  no  anxiety,  in  the  firm  persuasion  that  Lady- 
day  would  finally  settle  the  whole  transaction  of  the  mortgage 
and  the  payment.  I  now  find  that  the  delay  is  involuntary  and 
indefinite,  and  that  it  is  not  so  easy  to  escape  even  from  the 
amicable  grip  of  the  Court  of  Chancery.  Can  such  superstitious 
forms  be  of  any  use  except  to  the  Lawyers  ?  whose  bill  I  much 
apprehend.  Might  not  such  an  obsolete  deed  which  I  had  per- 
fectly forgot,  have  been  thrown  into  the  fire  with  the  consent  of 
all  parties  ?  However  we  must  follow  the  stream,  and  I  trust 
that  neither  Sussex  nor  Africa,  nor  Eeading  nor  Bristol  will  relax 
your  diligence  in  the  cause  of  your  friend.  In  the  winding  up 
an  arrangement  of  twenty  years,  it  is  vexatious  to  be  stopped  by 
a  little  knot :  but  otherwise  my  nerves  are  not  so  much  discom- 
posed as  you  might  suspect.  As  I  believe  the  purchasers  to  be 
honest  and  sincere,  the  difference  is  only  between  the  rent  and 
the  interest :  the  tenant  deserves  no  mercy,  and  I  hope  your 
orders  are  absolute  for  distraining  the  next  day  on  failure  of  pay- 
ment. I  trust  that  the  £8000  mortgage  is  settled  with  Sainsbury, 
nor  do  I  dislike  your  last  resolution  of  pouring  the  whole  residue 
into  the  funds. 

*From  my  silence  you  conclude  that  the  moral  complaint, 
which  I  had  insinuated  in  my  last,  is  either  insignificant  or 
fanciful.  The  conclusion  is  rash.  But  the  complaint  in  question 
is  of  the  nature  of  a  slow  lingering  disease,  which  is  not  attended 
with  any  immediate  danger.  As  I  have  not  leisure  to  expatiate, 
take  the  idea  in  three  words  :  "  Since  the  loss  of  poor  Deyverdun, 
I  am  alone ;  and  even  in  paradise,  solitude  is  painful  to  a  social 
mind.  When  I  was  a  dozen  years  younger,  I  scarcely  felt  the 
weight  of  a  single  existence  amidst  the  crowds  of  London,  of 
Parliament,  of  Clubs  ;  but  it  will  press  more  heavily  upon  me  in 
this  tranquil  land,  in  the  decline  of  life,  and  with  the  encrease  of 
infirmities.  Some  expedient,  even  the  most  desperate,  must  be 
embraced,  to  secure  the  domestic  society  of  a  male  or  female 
companion.  But  I  am  not  in  a  hurry  ;  there  is  time  for  reflection 
and  advice."  During  this  winter  such  finer  feelings  have  been 
suspended  by  the  grosser  evil  of  bodily  pain.  On  the  ninth  of 
February  I  was  seized  by  such  a  fit  of  the  Gout  as  I  had  never 


216  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1790. 

known,  though  I  must  be  thankful  that  its  dire  effects  have  been 
confined  to  the  feet  and  knees,  without  ascending  to  the  more 
noble  parts.  With  some  vicissitudes  of  better  and  worse,  I  have 
groaned  between  two  and  three  months  ;  the  debility  has  survived 
the  pain,  and  though  now  easy,  I  am  carried  about  in  my  chair, 
without  any  power,  and  with  a  very  distant  chance,  of  supporting 
myself,  from  the  extreme  weakness  and  contraction  of  the  joints 
of  my  knees.  Yet  I  am  happy  in  a  skilful  physician,  and  kind 
assiduous  friend  :  every  evening,  during  more  than  three  months, 
has  been  enlivened  (except  when  I  have  been  forced  to  refuse 
them)  by  some  chearful  visits,  and  very  often  by  a  chosen  party 
of  both  sexes.  How  different  is  such  society  from  the  solitary 
evenings  which  I  have  passed  in  the  tumult  of  London !  It  is 
not  worth  while  fighting  about  a  shadow,  but  should  I  ever 
return  to  England,  Bath,  not  the  Metropolis,  would  be  my  last 
retreat. 

Your  portrait  is  at  last  arrived  in  perfect  condition,  and  now 
occupies  a  conspicuous  place  over  the  chimney-glass  in  my  library. 
It  is  the  object  of  general  admiration ;  good  judges  (the  few) 
applaud  the  work ;  the  name  of  Reynolds  opens  the  eyes  and 
mouths  of  the  many  ;  and  were  not  I  afraid  of  making  you  vain, 
I  would  inform  you  that  the  original  is  not  allowed  to  be  more 
than  five-and-thirty.  In  spite  of  private  reluctance  and  pubUc 
discontent,  I  have  honourably  dismissed  myself}  I  shall  arrive 
at  Sir  Joshua's  before  the  end  of  the  month  ;  he  will  give  me  a 
look,  and  perhaps  a  touch  ;  and  you  will  be  indebted  to  the 
president  one  guinea  for  the  carriage.  Do  not  be  nervous,  I  am 
not  rolled  up  ;  had  I  been  so,  you  might  have  gazed  on  my 
charms  four  months  ago.  I  want  some  account  of  yourself,  of 
My  lady,  (shall  we  never  directly  correspond  ?)  of  Louisa,  and  of 
the  soft,  the  stately  Maria.  How  has  the  latter  since  her  launch 
supported  a  quiet  Winter  in  Sussex  ?     I  so  much  rejoice  in  your 

divorce  from  that  b Kitty  Coventry,"  that  I  care  not  what 

marriage  you  contract.  The  second  City  in  England  would  suit 
your  dignity,  and  the  duties  of  a  Bristol  Member,  which  would 

'  His  portrait. 

-  At  the  general  election  for  1790,  Lord  Eardley  and  John  Wilmot  were 
returned  for  Coventry,  and  the  Marquis  of  Worcester  and  Lord  Sheffield  for 
Bristol.  Lord  Sheffield  sat  for  Bristol  from  1790  to  1802,  when  ho  was 
summoned  to  the  British  House  of  Peers. 


1790.]      LORD  SHEFFIELD  RETURNED  FOR   BRISTOL.         217 

kill  me  in  the  first  session,  would  supply  your  activity  with  a 
constant  fund  of  amusement.  But  tread  softly  and  surely  ;  the 
ice  IS  deceitful,  the  water  is  deep,  and  you  may  be  soused  over 
head  and  ears  before  you  are  aware.  Why  did  not  you  or  Elmsly 
send  me  the  African  pamphlet  ^  by  the  post  ?  it  would  not  liave 
cost  much.  You  have  such  a  knack  of  turning  a  nation,  that  I 
am  afraid  you  will  triumph  (perhaps  by  the  force  of  argument) 
over  justice  and  humanity.  But  do  you  not  expect  to  work  at 
Beelzebub's  sugar  plantations  in  the  infernal  regions,  under  the 
tender  government  of  a  negro-driver  ?  I  should  suppose  both 
My  lady  and  Miss  Firth  very  angry  with  you. 

As  to  the  bill  for  prints,  which  has  been  too  long  neglected, 
why  will  you  not  exercise  the  power,  which  I  have  never  revoked, 
over  all  my  cash  at  the  Goslings'  ?  I  have  no  further  claims  either 
for  quarto  or  octavo  copies,  but  I  am  persuaded  that  Cadell's 
liberality  will  credit  your  applications  in  my  name  for  one  of 
each.  The  Severy  family  has  passed  a  very  favourable  winter ; 
the  young  man  is  impatient  to  hear  from  a  family  which  he 
places  something  above  the  Holy  family  :  yet  he  will  generously 
write  next  week,  and  send  you  a  drawing  of  the  alterations  in 
the  house.  Do  not  raise  your  ideas ;  you  know  /  am  satisfied 
with  convenience  in  architecture,  and  some  elegance  in  furniture. 
I  hear  nothing  decisive  either  from  Sir  Ralph  Payne  about 
Madeira,  and  if  I  do  not  receive  a  supply  in  the  course  of  the 
summer,  I  shall  be  in  great  shame  and  distress.  I  would  write 
to  the  Bath  Knight  if  I  knew  his  address.  That  is  serious 
business,  but  I  admire  the  coolness  with  which  you  ask  me  to 
epistolize  Reynell  and  Elmsly,  as  if  a  letter  were  so  easy  and 
pleasant  a  task  ;  it  appears  less  so  to  me  every  day.* 

552. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edivard  Gibbon. 

Sheffield  Place,  28tli  July,  '90. 

I  wish  I  had  better  paper,  but  this  is  good  enough  for  a 
foreigner.  At  length  I  have  obtained  an  attested  copy  of  Hester's 
"Will,  but  no  further  letter  or  information  from  Mr.  Law. 

'  Lord  Sheffield's  pamphlet,  Ohservations  on  the  Project  for  Abolishing  the 
Slave  Trade,  was  published  anonymously  in  1790.  The  second  edition  (1791) 
bore  the  author's  name. 


218  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1790. 

I  find  the  Will  was  made  in  November,  1786,  and  is  of 
considerable  length,  altho'  her  nephew  Edward  Gibbon  takes 
up  not  much  more  than  two  lines  of  it.  The  rest  says  much 
about  the  family  of  Law,  and  the  heirs  of  the  Rev.  Wm.  Law. 
It  gives  the  Sussex  Estate  to  Edward  Gibbon  and  his  heirs  for 
ever,  and  one  thousand  pounds  to  the  said  Edward,  and  one 
hundred  pounds  to  her  niece  Lady  Eliot,  but  the  chat  d'enfer,  by 
a  codicil  dated  18th  February,  1788,  when  her  nephew  resided 
in  Downing  Street,  took  the  trouble  of  reducing  the  thousand 
pounds  to  one  hundred  pounds,  to  be  paid  within  12  months  after 
her  decease.  When  there  is  an  opportunity  I  shall  send  the  com- 
position to  you.  And  now  you  are  once  more  a  landed  man. 
But  I  wonder  I  have  not  had  a  summons  lately  to  attend  Messrs. 
Sainsbury  and  Rhodes  to  conclude  the  Buriton  business.  I  have 
furnished  them  with  every  paper,  &c.,  they  have  desired,  and  I 
verily  believe  they  are  proceeding,  yet  it  seems  in  a  truly  Chancery 
style.  They  plagued  me  lately  about  a  deed  for  which  it  was 
necessary  to  ransack  the  boxes. 

My  last  letter  was  from  Clifton  near  Bristol  (I  believe)  after 
my  return  from  Coventry,  and  I  also  believe  I  therein  mentioned 
Proceedings  at  Reading,  Bristol,  and  Coventry.  I  was  detained 
some  time  among  my  constituents  for  the  purpose  of  incorporating 
a  due  quantity  of  Turtle,  and  on  leaving  them  I  subscribed  some- 
what above  £300  to  Infirmary,  Magdalens,  Small  Debtors,  &c.  : 
but  that  was  all  my  expence  at  Bristol.  I  suppose  I  mentioned  in 
my  last  that  my  expences  at  Coventry  did  not  exceed  £150. 

Sir  Joseph  Banks  ^  and  family  have  been  here  several  days,  and 
inquired  much  after  you.  They  are  just  gone,  and  Batt  is  just 
arrived,  and  stays  till  Brighthelmstone  Races  next  week.  Lord 
North  and  family  are  at  Tunbridge  Wells,  and  will  make  a  visit 
here  as  soon  as  we  are  settled  after  Races. 

Perhaps  it  may  be  needful  to  mention  to  you  that  the  rent  of 
your  Newhaven,  alias  Meeching  Farm,  is  £225.  The  Manor  is 
considerable,  the  quit-rents  and  profits  above  £40 — the  latter 
uncertain.  The  deductions  on  account  of  Land-tax  and  Sackville 
College  rent  and  expenses  of  collecting  quit-rent  about  £29.  I 
shall  not  readily  approve  of  your  selling  it,  but  if  you  should  be 

»  Sir  Joseph  Banks  (1743-1820)  Bailed  with  Captain  Cook  in  the 
Endeavour  in  1768.  He  was  President  of  the  Royal  Society  from  1778  to 
1820. 


1790.]  HESTER  GIBBON'S  WILL.  219 

desperately  disposed  to  increase  your  income,  what  do  you  think 
of  taking  double  or  treble  the  clear  rent  for  your  life,  for  the 
said  Estate  ?  I  suppose  about  £550  per  annum,  which  allows  for 
outgoings,  including  repairs  of  sea-walls  and  every  deduction  but 
moderately — they  have  been  of  late  years  somewhat  immoderate. 

If  you  do  not  think  of  making  little  ones,  it  may  suit  you  and 
it  would  me,  although  I  am  poor,  because  it  would  be  a  very 
respectable  addition  to  my  Sussex  Estate.  It  would  give  me 
marshland  of  which  I  have  none,  also  the  mouth  of  the  River 
Ouse,  &c. :  and  perhaps  a  small  house  on  the  sea-shore.  I  do  not 
know  that  it  would  be  a  good  bargain  for  you  and  your  heirs,  but 
I  think  it  would  be  a  good  one  for  the  House  of  Holroyd,  except 
that  I  should  not  like  to  be  benefitted  by  the  Devil  taking  you — 
yet  I  do  not  suspect  I  should  wish  it.  In  case  of  his  taking  me 
or  not,  you  would  have  a  collateral  security  besides  that  of  the 
Estate  itself.  The  best  argument  for  your  doing  it  is  that  I  shall 
with-hold  my  consent  to  your  selling  it.  On  this  subject  you  will 
give  your  mind  without  ceremony.  It  will  furnish  you  with 
subject  matter  for  a  letter. 

Yours  ever, 

S. 

Remember  us  to  the  house  of  Severy. 


553. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  August  7,  1790. 

*I  answer  at  once  your  two  letters  ;  and  I  should  probably 
have  taken  earlier  notice  of  the  first,  had  I  not  been  in  daily 
expectation  of  the  second.  I  must  begin  on  the  subject  of  what 
really  interests  me  the  most,  your  glorious  election  for  Bristol. 
Most  sincerely  do  I  congratulate  your  exchange  of  a  cursed 
expensive  jilt,  who  deserted  you  for  a  rich  Jew,  for  an  honourable 
connection  with  a  chaste  and  virtuous  matron,  who  will  probably 
be  as  constant  as  she  is  disinterested.  In  the  whole  range  of 
election  from  Caithness  to  St.  Yves,  I  much  doubt  whether  there 
be  a  single  choice  so  truly  honourable  to  the  member  and  the 
constituents.  The  second  Commercial  city  invites,  from  a  distant 
province,  an  independent  Gentleman,  known  only  by  his  active 


220  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1790. 

spirit,  and  his  writings  on  the  subject  of  trade  ;  and  names  him, 
without  intrigue  or  expence,  for  her  representative  :  even  the  voice 
of  party  is  silenced,  While  factions  strive  which  shall  applaud  the 
most. 

You  are  now  sure,  for  seven  years  to  come,  of  never  wanting 
food — I  mean  business  ;  what  a  crowd  of  suitors  or  Complainants 
will  besiege  your  door  !  what  a  load  of  letters  and  memorials  will 
be  heaped  on  your  table  !  1  much  question  whether  even  you 
will  not  sometimes  exclaim,  Ohe  !  jam  satis  est !  but  that  is  your 
affair.  Of  the  excursion  to  Coventry  I  cannot  decide,  but  I  hear 
it  is  pretty  generally  blamed  :  but,  however,  I  love  gratitude  to 
an  old  friend  ;  and  shall  not  be  very  angry  if  you  damned  them 
with  a  farewell  to  all  eternity.  But  I  cannot  repress  my  indigna- 
tion at  the  use  of  those  foolish,  obsolete,  odious  words.  Whig  and 
Tory.  In  the  American  War  they  might  have  some  meaning ; 
and  then  your  Lordship  was  a  Tory :  since  the  coalition,  all 
general  principles  have  been  confounded  ;  and  if  there  ever  was 
an  opposition  to  men,  not  measures,  it  is  the  present.  Luckily, 
both  the  Leaders  are  great  men  ;  and,  whatever  happens,  the 
country  must  fall  upon  its  legs.  What  a  strange  mist  of  peace 
and  war  seems  to  hang  over  the  ocean  !  We  can  perceive  nothing 
but  secrecy  and  vigour  ;  but  those  are  excellent  qualities  to  per- 
ceive in  a  Minister.  From  yourself  and  politics  I  now  return  to 
my  private  concerns,  which  I  shall  methodically  consider  under 
the  three  great  articles  of  mind,  body,  and  estate.*  And  first,  as 
Aristotle  says,  of  the  first. 

*1.  1  am  not  absolutely  displeased  at  your  firing  so  hastily  at 
the  hint,  a  tremendous  hint,  in  my  last  letter.  But  the  danger  is 
not  so  serious  or  imminent  as  you  seem  to  suspect ;  and  I  give 
you  my  word,  that,  before  I  take  the  slightest  step  which  can 
bind  me  either  in  law,  conscience,  or  honour,  I  will  faithfully 
communicate,  and  we  will  freely  discuss,  the  whole  state  of  the 
business.  But  at  present  there  is  not  any  thing  to  communicate 
or  discuss  ;  I  do  assure  you  that  I  have  not  any  particular  object 
in  view  ;  I  am  not  in  love  with  any  of  the  Hysenas  of  Lausanne, 
though  there  are  some  who  keep  their  claws  tolerably  well  pared. 
Sometimes,  in  a  solitary  mood,  I  have  fancied  myself  married  to 
one  or  other  of  those  whose  society  and  conversation  are  the 
most  pleasing  to  me  ;  but  when  I  have  painted  in  my  fancy  all 
the  probable  consequences  of  such  an  union,  I  have  started  from 


1790.]    COMFORTLESS  STATE  OF  DOMESTIC  SOLITUDE.      221 

my  dream,  rejoyccd  in  my  escape,  and  ejaculated  a  thanksgiving 
that  I  was  still  in  possession  of  my  natural  freedom.  Yet  I  feel, 
and  shall  continue  to  feel,  that  domestic  solitude,  however  it  may 
be  alleviated  by  the  world,  by  study,  and  even  by  friendship,  is  a 
comfortless  state,  which  will  grow  more  painful  as  I  descend  in 
the  vale  of  years.  At  present  my  situation  is  very  tolerable  ;  and 
if  at  dinner-time,  or  at  my  return  home  in  the  evening,  I  some- 
times sigh  for  a  companion,  there  are  many  hours,  and  many 
occasions,  in  which  I  enjoy  the  superior  blessing  of  being  sole 
master  of  my  own  house.  But  your  plan,  though  less  dangerous, 
is  still  more  absurd  than  mine  :  such  a  couple  as  you  describe 
could  not  be  found ;  and,  if  found,  would  not  answer  my  pur- 
pose ;  their  rank  and  position  would  be  awkward  and  am- 
biguous to  myself  and  my  acquaintance  ;  and  the  agreement  of 
three  persons  of  three  characters  would  be  still  more  impracticable. 
My  plan  of  Charlotte  Porten  is  undoubtedly  the  most  desirable  ; 
and  she  might  either  remain  a  spinster  (the  case  is  not  without 
example,)  or  marry  some  Swiss  of  my  choice,  who  would  increase 
and  enliven  our  society ;  and  both  would  have  the  strongest 
motives  for  kind  and  dutiful  behaviour.  But  the  mother  has 
been  indirectly  sounded  ;  and  will  not  hear  of  such  a  proposal  for 
some  years.  On  my  side,  I  would  not  take  her,  but  as  a  piece  of 
soft  wax  which  I  could  model  to  the  language  and  manners  of 
the  Country  :  I  must  therefore  be  patient. 

2.  Young  Severy's  letter,  which  may  be  now  in  your  hands, 
and  which,  for  these  three  or  four  last  posts,  has  furnished  my 
indolence  with  a  new  pretence  for  delay,  has  already  informed 
you  of  the  means  and  circumstances  of  my  resurrection.  Tedious 
indeed  was  my  confinement,  since  I  was  not  able  to  move  from 
my  house  or  chair,  from  the  ninth  of  February  to  the  first  of 
July,  very  nearly  five  months.  The  first  weeks  were  accom- 
panied with  more  pain  than  I  have  ever  known  in  the  Gout,  with 
anxious  days  and  sleepless  nights  ;  and  when  that  pain  subsided, 
it  left  a  weakness  in  my  knees,  which  seemed  to  have  no  end. 
My  confinement  was  however  softened  by  books,  by  the  possession 
of  every  comfort  and  convenience,  by  a  succession  each  evening 
of  agreeable  company,  and  by  a  flow  of  equal  spirits  and 
general  good  health.  During  the  last  weeks  I  descended  to  the 
ground  floor,  poor  Deyverdun's  apartment,  and  constructed  a 
chair  like  Merlin's,  in  which  I  could  wheel  myself  in  the  house 


222  GIBBON'S  COREESPONDENCE.  [1790. 

and  on  the  terrace.  My  patience  has  been  universally  admired  ; 
yet  how  many  thousands  have  passed  those  five  months  less  easily 
than  myself.  I  remember  making  a  remark  perfectly  simple,  and 
perfectly  true  :  "  At  present,"  I  said  to  Madame  de  Severy,  "  I 
am  not  positively  miserable,  and  I  may  reasonably  hope  a  daily  or 
weekly  improvement,  till  sooner  or  later  in  the  summer  I  shall 
recover  new  limbs,  and  new  pleasures,  which  I  do  not  now  possess  : 
have  any  of  you  such  a  prospect  ?  "  The  prediction  has  been 
accomplished,  and  I  have  arrived  to  my  present  condition  of 
strength,  or  rather  of  feebleness  :  I  now  can  walk  with  tolerable 
ease  in  my  garden  and  smooth  places  ;  but  on  the  rough  pave- 
ment of  the  town  I  use,  and  perhaps  shall  use,  a  sedan  chair. 
The  Pyrmont  waters  have  performed  wonders  ;  and  my  physician 
(not  Tissot,  but  a  very  sensible  man)  allows  me  to  hope,  that  the 
term  of  the  interval  will  be  in  proportion  to  that  of  the  fit.* 

3.  And  so  Aunt  Hester  is  gone  to  sing  Hallelujahs,  a  glory 
which  she  did  not  seem  very  impatient  to  possess.  I  received  the 
news  of  this  dire  event  with  much  philosophic  composure  :  she 
might  have  done  better,  she  might  have  done  worse,  and  I  was 
always  prepared  for  the  worst.  By  this  time  you  have  probably 
a  copy  of  the  Will,  and  will  take  (as  I  suppose  you  are  authorized) 
the  proper  and  necessary  steps.  I  most  wish  to  learn  whether  she 
has  left  me  the  fee  simple,  the  absolute  disposal  of  her  Sussex 
estate  ;  the  power  of  selling  or  the  necessity  of  keeping  that 
costly  piece  of  property  will  make  a  wonderful  difference  in  the 
value  of  her  gift.  From  a  motive  of  curiosity  I  wish  to  learn 
what  she  has  done  with  her  personal  fortune  ;  her  four  copper 
shares  were  worth  at  least  five  or  six  thousand  pounds.  Has  she 
given  them  to  the  Laws  ?  If  in  the  bequeathing  what  was 
absolutely  in  her  power  she  has  postponed  relations  for  friends, 
I  think  her  determination  both  honourable  and  wise.  If  in  the 
entailed  estate  she  has  preferred  a  poor  though  unbelieving 
nephew  to  a  rich  niece,  she  was  likewise  right.  I  speak  with  the 
impartiality  of  a  third  person. 

And  now  let  me  seriously  address  you  on  the  most  important 
of  my  temporal  concerns,  Buriton.  You  will  do  me  the  justice 
to  allow  that  I  have  not  been  either  impatient  or  nervous  : 
but  the  Estate  was  sold  in  April,  1789  :  this  is  now  August, 
1790,  and  the  money  is  not  yet  paid,  nor  the  purchase  concluded. 
Is  Lord  Stawell  perfidious,  is  he  poor,  is  he  unwilling  .?  is  the 


1790.]  SWISS  SENSIBLE   OF  THEIR  HAPPINESS.  223 

delay  only  produced  by  the  ingenious  forms  of  the  lawyers  ? 
How  many  terms  do  they  require  for  an  amicable  suit  in  Chan- 
cery ?  In  the  meanwhile  I  lose  interest,  the  estate  must  suffer 
by  neglect,  and  what  will  be  the  event  ?  Exert  your  vigour, 
argue,  persuade,  consummate  !  On  the  10th  of  November  next 
my  father  will  have  been  dead  twenty  years  :  let  it  not  be 
said  that  with  the  counsel  and  aid  of  such  a  friend,  I  have  not 
been  able  to  settle  my  affairs  in  twenty  years.  What  can  I 
say  more  ?  the  conclusion  an  Indian  Epistle. 

Yes,  I  have  more  or  rather  nothing  more  to  say  about  the  dis- 
posal of  the  money.  I  hope  the  Buriton  mortgage  for  £8000  still 
holds  :  nothing  else  can  be  so  easy  or  good.  The  remainder  you 
will  throw  into  the  funds,  and  I  wish  we  could  take  advantage  of 
the  present  fall,  but  if  a  sure  bond  or  neat  mortgage  from  £2500 
to  £4000  should  offer  itself,  I  should  be  very  well  pleased. 

*Have  you  read  in  the  English  papers,  that  the  Government  of 
Bern  is  overturned,  and  that  we  are  divided  into  three  Demo- 
cratical  leagues  ;  true  as  the  Gospel :  true  as  what  I  have  read  in 
the  French  papers,  that  the  English  have  cut  off  Pitt's  head,  and 
abolished  the  house  of  Lords.  The  people  of  this  country  are 
happy  ;  and  in  spite  of  some  malcontents,  and  more  foreign 
Emissaries,  they  are  sensible  of  their  happiness.* 

My  Madeira  is  almost  exhausted,  and  I  must  receive  before 
the  end  of  the  Autumn  a  stout  cargo  of  wholesome  exquisite  wine 
with  proper  previous  notice  which  may  prevent  all  accidents  at  the 
Custom  House.  Your  Bristol  connection  must  give  you  great 
advantages,  but  (if  I  could  procure  his  direction)  I  would  not 
neglect  Sir  Ralph  Payne's  favours. 

*Inform  My  lady,  that  I  am  indignant  at  a  false  and  heretical 
assertion  in  her  last  letter  to  Severy,  "  that  friends  at  a  distance 
cannot  love  each  other,  if  they  do  not  write."  I  love  her  better 
than  any  woman  in  the  world  ;  indeed  I  do  ;  and  yet  I  do  not 
write.  And  she  herself — but  I  am  calm.  We  have  now  nearly 
one  hundred  French  exiles,  some  of  them  worth  being  acquainted 
with  ;  particularly  a  Count  de  Schomberg,  who  is  become  almost 
my  friend  ;  he  is  a  man  of  the  World,  of  letters,  and  of  sufficient 
age,  since  in  1753  he  succeeded  to  Marshal  Saxe's  regiment  of 
Dragoons.  As  to  the  rest,  I  entertain  them,  and  they  flatter 
me  :  but  I  wish  we  were  reduced  to  our  Lausanne  society.  Poor 
France  !  the  state  is  dissolved,  the  nation  is  mad  !    Adieu.* 


224  GIBBON'S  COBRESPONDENCE.  [1790. 

554. 
Lord  S}t£ffibld  to  Edivard  Gihlon. 

Sheffield  Place,  2l8t  Sept.,  '90. 

I  approve  your  observations  on  the  Bristol  Election,  and  I  do 
not  believe  you  heard  the  Excursion  to  Coventry  pretty  generally 
blamed.  I  knew  nothing  of  an  Opposition  till  two  days  after  the 
Poll  began.  A  man  who  had  been  useful  to  me  in  the  same  line 
being  concerned,  I  had  no  difficulty  nor  hesitation  as  to  what  was 
to  be  done. 

On  the  subject  of  Buriton  I  acknowledge  you  liave  been  as 
Philosophic  as  could  be  expected.  There  seems  to  be  something 
supernatural  attending  all  your  worldly  concerns.  In  answer  to 
a  repeated  remonstrance  to  Mr.  Sainsbury,  the  last  information  is 
from  Mr.  Rhodes  the  Attorney,  dated  Sept.  4th  instant.  He 
says  (Mrs.  Sainsbury  desired  him  to  write,  Mr.  Sainsbury  being 
in  Ireland),  "  The  matter  in  Chancery  remains  unfinished  by  the 
Master.  "When  we  obtained  the  Deed  and  laid  it  before  him,  he 
said  that  he  had  then  so  many  other  reports  to  prepare  that  he 
was  apprehensive  that  he  should  not  be  able  to  prepare  ours. 
"We  said  and  did  everything  in  our  power  to  induce  him  to  do  it, 
but  we  could  not  prevail.  He  has  promised  to  let  us  have  it 
before  the  ensuing  Term,  which  will  begin  on  the  6th  of  November 
next,  and  the  other  business  cannot  be  completed  before  the  first 
week  in  the  term."  It  is  difficult  to  believe  these  delays  are 
intentional,  as  a  considerable  sum  remains  dormant  as  to  the 
Land  in  the  hands  of  the  Auctioneers,  Messrs.  Skinners,  and 
as  so  great  a  proportion  of  the  purcliase  money  is  to  remain 
in  Mortgage.  The  only  thing  I  can  firmly  object  to,  is  an 
over  nicety  on  the  part  of  Sainsbury  or  his  Lawyers  as  to  the 
title,  but  I  shall  go  to  London  as  soon  as  Term  begins  and 
reiterate  every  measure  that  can  speedily  bring  matters  to  a 
conclusion.  In  the  meantime  I  shall  be  very  troublesome  until 
I  am  assured  every  paper  is  ready  for  signature.  As  to  the  Estate 
it  does  not  suffer  by  neglect ;  a  new  Tenant  recommended  by 
Sainsbury  has  taken  it  from  the  poor  flimsy  creature  that  held 
it  in  a  fright,  and  Andrewes  stoutly  exacts  the  rent  when  due. 

"We  almost  howled  when  we  read  the  tremendous  account  of 


1790.]      LORD  SHEFFIELD'S  OFFER  FOR  NEWHAVEN.        225 

nearly  five  montlis'  confinement — the  weakness  in  your  traces 
affrighted  me  most,  but  I  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  your  last,  which 
says  that  you  have  advanced  to  nearly  your  usual  condition  of 
strength.  I  never  heard  of  Pyrmont  waters  for  the  gout — but 
I  grieve  to  tell  you  that  notwithstanding  repeated  applications  I 
find  your  Hogshead  of  Madeira  (which  is  on  its  travels)  may  not 
arrive  sooner  than  4,  5,  or  6  months.  I  must  spare  you  all  I  can 
of  my  Old  Madeira  which  is  in  London,  but  I  do  not  know  that 
it  will  amount  to  a  quantity  worth  the  trouble  of  sending.  I 
shall  make  every  effort  and  inquire  everywhere  for  you.  As  to 
Sir  Kalph  Payne,  surely  a  letter  directed  to  him  in  London  would 
find  him,  if  you  think  that  mode  preferable. 

Your  plan  as  to  Charlotte  Porten  might  be  the  most  desirable, 
but  nothing  could  be  more  fancifull  than  to  suppose  it  could 
possibly  succeed,  unless  you  could  send  a  Demon  cracked  from 
Paris  to  hang  the  mother  to  a  Lanthern. 

My  last  letter  answers  your  question  whether  Hester  had  left 
you  the  fee-simple  of  the  Sussex  Estate.  I  have  learned  nothing 
more  concerning  that  Holy  woman  since  the  receipt  of  the  Copy 
of  her  "Will,  nor  am  I  likely,  unless  I  should  find  some  of  the 
family  of  the  Laws  in  London  next  winter.  I  think  you  should 
inclose  to  me  an  order  to  the  Executors,  Messrs.  "William  Law, 
Senior,  of  Kings  Cliffe,  and  William  Law  of  Stamford,  to  deliver 
to  me  all  the  "Writings,  Papers,  Surveys,  Plans,  &c.,  relating  to 
the  Sussex  Estate,  and  you  may  add,  those  which  relate  to  the 
Family  of  Gibbon. 

"When  Batt  was  here  not  long  since,  I  mentioned  to  him  your 
old  Aunt's  Bequest  and  my  proposition  to  you ;  at  first,  he  did 
not  object,  but  next  day  he  scouted  my  folly  and  extravagance 
in  diminishing  my  Income.  My  observations  that  I  should  and 
could  easily  cut  down  annually  more  timber  than  would  pay  the 
difference,  and  that  in  case  I  went  to  glory,  those  who  came  after 
me  would  be  fully  compensated  in  the  end  for  loss  of  Income — I 
say,  these  observations  seemed  to  make  little  impression  on  him. 
However,  I  was  somewhat  chilled,  yet  I  cannot  help  tliinking  it 
or  something  of  the  kind  might  answer  to  both  of  us,  if  you 
should  be  desperately  disposed  to  sell  to  increase  your  Income. 
I  should  acquire  a  position  on  the  Sea-Shore — but  you  may  have 
thought  of  something  that  would  answer  your  purpose  better. 

You  admire  the  Minister's  secrecy  and  vigour.     There  is  no 

VOL.  II.  Q 


226  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1790. 

secrecy  in  the  case,  but  surely  he  has  made  a  desperate  plunge,  and 
it  appears  to  me  a  very  wanton  one— and  if  it  is  right  to  take  an 
advantage,  he  is  losing  the  opportunity.^  It  is  difficult  to  suppose 
that  Spain  will  engage  sinrjh-handed  with  us,  but  we  may  bully 
them  into  it,  and  although  France  cannot  at  present  do  much,  yet 
the  adherence  of  the  National  Assembly  to  the  Family  compact 
may  help  the  Spaniards  to  be  stout,  and  above  all  it  would  be 
good  policy  in  the  French  Aristocrats  to  dash  France  into  a 
war  at  all  events. 

You  are  incorrigible,  but  we  desire  that  you  will  encourage 
De  Severy  to  write.  It  is  surprising  he  can  write  and  remember 
English  so  well.  The  alterations  in  your  Chateau  pleased  us  very 
much.  I  have  enquired  more  than  once  whether  you  would  have 
the  provision  for  Mrs.  Gibbon  to  be  £200  or  £300.  You  pay  the 
latter,  but  I  understand. 

Everybody  is  looking  into  Bruce's  Travels.^  Part  takes  the 
attention,  but  they  are  abominably  abused.  Banks  objects  to  the 
Botany,  Reynell  to  the  Geography,  Cambridge  to  the  History, 
The  Greeks  to  the  Greek,  &c.,  &c.  ;  yet  the  work  is  to  be  found 
on  every  table.  Bruce  printed  the  work,  and  sold  2000  copies  to 
Robertson  for  £6000.  He  sells  to  the  booksellers  at  4  guineas, 
and  they  to  their  customers  at  5  guineas. 

*  In  May,  1790,  a  message  from  the  king  was  delivered  to  the  House  o-f 
Commons  by  Pitt,  informing  them  that  two  British  ships  had  been  seized  in 
Nootka  Sound  off  the  coast  of  California  by  two  Spanish  men-of-war,  that 
satisfaction  had  been  demanded,  that  Spain  claimed  exclusive  rights  in  those 
waters,  and  was  making  active  preparations  for  war.  Spain,  relying  on  the 
family  compact,  asked  aid  from  France,  and  Louis  XVI.  communicated  the 
demand  to  the  National  Assembly,  asking  that  a  fleet  should  be  equipped  to 
send  assistance.  Preparations  were  made  at  Brest  to  send  assistance;  but 
the  mutinous  conduct  of  the  French  sailors  apparently  alarmed  the  Spanish 
Gtovemment,  which  withdrew  its  claims,  restored  the  property  seized,  and 
offered  compensation.  The  Convention  between  England  and  Spain  was 
signed  October  28,  1790.  "  The  first  and  great  news  is  the  pacification  with 
Spain.  The  courier  arrived  on  Thursday  morning  with  a  most  acquiescent 
answer  to  our  ultimatum  "  (Walpole  to  the  Miss  Berrys,  November  8,  1790). 

*  James  Bruce  of  Kinnaird,  F.R.S.,  published  in  1790  his  Travels  to 
discover  the  Sources  of  the  Nile,  in  five  quarto  volumes. 


1790.]  M.  LANGER  AT  WOLFENIiUTTEL.  227 


555. 

This  letter  is  apparenthj  written  to  M.  Langer,  the  Lihrarian  of 
the  Ducal  Library  of  Wolfenhuttel.  A  translation  of  part 
of  it  was  found  with  Gihhon''s  ma7iuscript  of  the  Antiquities 
of  the  House  of  Brunswick,  and  published  by  Lord  Sheffield 
(Gibbon's  Miscellaneous  Works,  vol.  iii.  pp.  353-558). 

k  RoUe,  ce  12  Octobre,  1790. 

Je  vous  aurois  plutot  remercie,  Monsieur,  des  soins  obligeans 
que  vous  avez  bien  voulu  vous  donner  pour  me  procurer  les 
Origines  Guelficse,^  si  d'un  cote  notre  honnete  libraire  Mr.  Pott 
ne  m'avoit  pas  appris  que  vous  etiez  en  voyage,  si  de  I'autre  je 
n'avois  pas  ete  moi  meme  en  proye  a  I'acces  de  goutte  le  plus 
rigoureux  et  le  plus  long  que  j'aye  encore  eprouve. 

Nous  revoici  a  present  dans  notre  etat  ordinaire,  je  marche,  et 
vous  ne  courez  plus.  Je  vous  suppose  bien  etabli,  bien  enfonce 
dans  votre  immense  bibliotheque  dans  un  endroit  qui  fournit 
peut-etre  un  choix  plus  etendu  et  plus  interessant  des  morts  que 
des  vivans.  Comme  vous  etes  egalement  propre  a  vivre  avec  les 
uns  et  les  autres,  je  desirerois  pour  votre  bonheur  aussi  bien  que 
pour  celui  de  vos  amis,  que  vous  pussiez  enfin  executer  comme 
moi  le  projet  de  chercher  une  douce  retraite  sur  les  bords  du  lac 
Leman.  II  s'en  faut  de  beaucoup  que  vous  n'y  soyez  oublie  : 
nous  parlous  souvent  de  vous  surtout  dans  la  famillc  de  Severy, 
nous  regrettons  votre  absence  et  en  nous  rappellant  I'aimable 
franchise,  la  vivacite  piquante  de  VEsdave,  nous  cherisons 
Tespcrance  de  vous  revoir  parmi  nous  en  homme  libre,  ne  de- 
pendant que  de  vos  gouts  et  pouvant  vous  donner  tout  entier  aux 
lettres  et  a  la  societe. 

Vous  aurez  sans  doute  appris  la  perte  irreparable  que  j'ai  faite 
du  pauvre  Deyverdun.  En  vertu  de  son  testament  et  de  mes 
arrangemens  avec  son  heritier  Mr.  le  Major  de  Montagny,  je  me 
suis  assure  ma  vie  durant  la  jouissance  de  sa  maison  et  de  son 
jardin.     Vous  en  connoissez  tons  les  agremens  qui  se  sont  encore 

'  Origines  Guelficse,  quihm  potentissiinse  gentis  primordia,  magnitudo, 
variaque  fortuna  ezhibentur.  Opus  prseeunte  G.  G.  Leibnitii  stilo  J.  G, 
Eccardi  Uteris  consignatum,  postea  a  J.  D.  Grubero  novis  probationibus 
instructum.  (Ad  fiaem  perduxit  atque  edidit  C.  L.  Scheidius.  Accedit 
duplex  index,  etc.,  curante  J.  H.  Jungio.)    Hanoverse,  1750-80,  fol. 


228  GIBBON'S  COERESPONDENCE.  [1790. 

augmentes  par  un  depense  assez  considerable  efc  assez  bien 
tendu  que  j'y  ai  fait6  depuis  sa  mort.  Je  dois  etre  content  de 
ma  position  mais  on  ne  pent  pas  remplacer  un  ami  de  trente  ans. 
Votre  curiosite,  peut-etre  votre  amitie,  desirera  de  connoitre  mes 
amusemens,  mes  travaux,  mes  projets  pendant  les  deux  ans  qui  se 
sont  ecoule  depuis  la  derniere  publication  de  mon  grand  ouvrage. 
Aux  questions  indiscretes  qu'on  se  permet  trop  souvent  vis-a-vis 
de  moi,  je  responds  avec  une  mine  renfrognee  et  d'une  maniere 
vague,  mais  je  ne  veux  rien  avoir  de  cache  pour  vous  et  pour 
imiter  la  franchise  que  vous  aimez,  je  vous  avouerai  naturelle- 
ment  que  ma  confidence  est  fondee  en  partie  sur  le  besoin  que 
j'aurai  de  votre  secours. 

Apres  mon  retour  d'Angleterre  les  premiers  mois  ont  ete 
consacres  a  la  jouissance  de  ma  liberte  et  de  ma  bibliotheque, 
et  vous  ne  serez  pas  etonne  si  j'ai  renouvelle  une  connoissance 
familiere  avec  vos  auteurs  Grecs  et  si  j'ai  fait  voeu  de  leur 
reserver  tons  les  jours  une  portion  de  mon  loisir.  Je  passe 
sous  silence  ces  tristes  momens  dans  lesquels  je  n'ai  ete  occupe 
qu'a  soigner  et  a  pleurer  mon  ami:  mais  des  que  j'ai  com- 
mence a  me  retrouver  un  esprit  moins  agile,  j'ai  cherche  a  me 
donner  quelque  distraction  plus  forte  et  plus  interessante  que 
la  simple  lecture.  Le  souvenir  de  ma  servitude  de  vingt  ans 
m'a  cependant  effraye  et  je  me  suis  bien  promis  de  ne  plus 
m'embarquer  dans  une  entreprise  de  longue  haleine  que  je 
n'acheverois  vraisemblablement  jamais.  II  vaut  bien  mieux,  me 
suis  je  dit,  choisir,  dans  tons  les  pays  et  dans  tons  les  siecles,  des 
morceaux  historiques  que  je  traiterai  separement  suivant  leur 
nature  et  selon  mon  gout.  Lorsque  ces  opuscules  (je  pourrai  les 
nommer  en  Anglais,  Historical  Excursions)  me  fourniront  un 
volume,  je  le  donnerai  au  public  :  ce  don  pourroit  etre  renouvelle 
jusqu'a  ce  que  nous  soyons  fatigues  ou  ce  public  ou  moi  meme  : 
mais  chaque  volume,  complet  par  lui  meme,  n'exigera  point  de 
suite,  et  au  lieu  d'etre  borne  comme  la  diligence  au  grand  chemin, 
je  me  promenerai  librement  dans  le  champ  de  I'histoire  en 
m'arretant  partout  ou  je  trouve  des  points  de  vue  agreables. 
Dans  ce  projet  je  ne  vois  qu'un  inconvenient, — un  objet  interessant 
s'etend  et  s'aggrandit  sous  le  travail :  je  pourrois  etre  entraine  au 
dela  de  mes  bornes,  mais  je  serai  doucement  entraine  sans  pre- 
voyance  et  sans  contrainte. 

Mes  soupQons  ont  ete  verifies  dans  le  choix  de  ma  premiere 


1790.]  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  QUELFS.  229 

excursion.  Ce  quo  j'avois  si  bicn  prevu  n'a  pas  manque  d'arriver 
k  mon  premier  choix  et  ce  choix  vous  expliquera  pourquoi  j'ai 
demandc  avec  tant  d'empressement  les  Origines  Guelficse.  Dans 
mon  histoire  j'avois  rendu  compte  de  deux  alliances  illustres,  d'un 
fils  du  Marquis  Azo  d'Este  avec  une  fiUe  de  Robert  Guiscard/  d'une 
princesse  de  Brunswick  avec  I'Empereur  Grec.  Un  premier 
appercu  de  I'antiquite  et  de  la  grandeur  de  la  maison  de  Bruns- 
wick a  excite  ma  curiosite,  et  j'ai  cru  me  pouvoir  interesser  les 
deux  nations  que  j'estime  le  plus  par  les  memoires  d'une  famille 
qui  est  sortie  de  Tune  pour  regner  sur  I'autre.  Mes  recherches, 
en  me  devoilant  la  beautc  de  ce  sujet,  m'en  ont  fait  voir  I'etendue 
et  la  difficulte.  L'origine  des  Marquis  de  Ligurie  et  peut-etre  de 
Toscane  a  ete  suffisament  eclaircie  par  Muratori  et  Leibnitz ; 
ritalie  du  moyen  age,  son  histoire  et  ses  monumens,  me  sont  tres 
connus  et  je  ne  suis  pas  mecontent  de  ce  que  j'ai  deja  ecrit 
sur  la  branche  cadette  d'Este  qui  est  demeuree  fidelle  a  garder  ses 
cendres  casanieres.  Les  anciens  Guelfs  ne  me  sont  point  etran- 
gers,  et  je  me  crois  en  etat  de  rendre  compte  de  la  puissance  et  de 
la  chute  de  leurs  heritiers,  les  Dues  de  Baviere  et  de  Saxe. 

La  succession  de  la  maison  de  Brunswick  au  trone  de  la  Grande 
Bretagne  sera  tres  assurement  la  partie  la  plus  interessante  de 
mon  travail ;  mais  tons  les  materiaux  se  trouvent  dans  ma 
langue,  et  un  Anglois  devroit  rougir  s'il  n'avoit  pas  approfondi 
I'histoire  moderne  et  la  constitution  actuelle  de  son  pays.  Mais 
entre  le  premier  Due  et  ie  premier  Electeur  de  Brunswick  il  se 
trouve  un  intervalle  de  quatre  cent  cinquante  ans,  je  suis  con- 
damne  a  suivre  dans  les  tenebres  un  sentier  etroit  et  raboteux,  et 
les  divisions,  les  sous  divisions,  de  tant  de  branches  et  de  terri- 
toires  repandent  sur  ce  sentier  la  confusion  d'un  labyrinthe 
Genealogique.  Les  evenemens  sans  eclat  et  sans  liaison  sont 
bornes  a  une  province  d'Alleraagne  et  ce  n'est  que  vers  la  fin  de 
ce  periode  que  je  serois  un  pen  ranime  par  la  reformation,  la  guerre 
de  trente  ans,  et  la  nouvelle  puissance  de  I'Electorat.  Comme  je 
me  propose  de  crayonner  des  Memoires  et  non  pas  de  composer 
une  histoire,  je  marcherois  sans  doute  d'un  pas  rapide,  je  pre- 
senterois  des  resultats  plutot  que  des  faits,  des  obseiTations  plutot 
que  des  recits  :  mais  vous  sentez,  combien  un  tableau  general 
exige  de  connoissances  particulieres,  combien  I'auteur  doit  etre 
plus  savant  que  son  livre. 
*  Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  (edition  of  1862),  vol.  yii.  p.  119. 


230  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1790. 

Or  cet  auteur,  il  est  a  deux  cent  lieues  de  la  Sase,  il  ignore 
la  langue  et  il  ne  s'est  jamais  applique  a  Thistoire  de  TAlleniagne. 
Eloigne  des  sources,  il  ne  lui  reste  qu'un  seul  moyen  pour  les 
faire  couler  dans  sa  bibliotheque.  C'est  de  se  menager  sur  les 
lieux  meme  un  correspondant  exact,  un  guide  eclaire,  un  oracle 
enfin  qu'il  puisse  consulter  dans  tons  ses  besoins.  Par  votre 
caractere,  votre  esprit,  vos  lumieres,  votre  position,  vous  etes 
cet  homme  precieux  et  unique  que  je  cherche,  et  quand  vous 
m'indiquerez  un  suppleant  aussi  capable  que  vous  meme  je  ne 
m'addresserois  pas  avec  la  meme  confiance  a  un  etranger.  Je  vous 
accablerois  librement  de  questions,  et  de  nouvelles  questions  nai- 
troient  souvent  de  vos  reponses  ;  je  vous  prierois  de  fouiller  dans 
votre  vaste  depot ;  je  vous  demanderois  des  notices,  des  livres,  des 
extraits,  des  traductions,  des  renseignements  sur  tous  les  objets 
qui  peuvent  interesser  mon  travail.  Mais  j 'ignore  si  vous  etes 
dispose  a  sacrifier  votre  loisir,  vos  etudes  cheries  a  une  corre- 
spondance  penible  sans  agremens  et  sans  gloire.  Je  me  flatte  que 
vous  feriez  quelque  chose  pour  moi,  vous  feriez  encore  davantage 
pour  I'honneur  de  la  maison  a  laquelle  vous  etes  attache,  mais 
suis-je  en  droit  de  supposer  que  mes  ecrits  puissent  contribuer 
de  quelque  chose  a  son  honneur  ? 

J 'attends,  Monsieur,  votre  reponse  qu'elle  soit  prompte  et 
franche.  Si  vous  daignez  vous  associer  a  mon  entreprise,  je  vous 
envoyerai  sur  le  champ  mon  premier  interrogatoire.  Votre  refus 
me  decideroit  h,  renoncer  k  mon  dessein,  ou  du  moins  a  lui  donner 
une  nouvelle  forme.  J'ose  en  meme  terns  vous  demander  un 
profond  secret :  un  mot  indiscret  seroit  repete  par  cent  bouches 
et  j'aurois  le  desagrement  de  voir  dans  les  journaux,  et  bientot 
dans  les  papiers  Anglois,  une  annonce,  peut-etre  defiguree,  de  mes 
projets  litteraires,  qui  ne  sont  confies  qu'a  vous  seul. 

J'ai  rhonneur  d'etre, 

E.  G. 

556. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

[Oct.  17,  '90.] 

You  call  me  incorrigible  :  but  I  never  was  less  disposed  than 
at  present  to  plead  guilty.  Have  you  forgot  the  general  picture 
of  mind,  body  and  estate  which  I  sent  you  since  my  recovery  ?  in 
the  tranquil  life  of  Lausanne  a  long  interval  might  elapse  without 


1790.]  SERVITUDE  TO  LAWYERS.  231 

affording  any  features  to  alter  or  any  colours  to  vary.  On  the 
most  interesting  topic,  poor  Buriton,  it  is  mine  to  hear  rather 
than  to  \\Tite,  and  most  ardently  indeed  do  I  now  desire  to  hear 
of  the  conclusion  of  that  incomprehensible  business.  Is  it  possible, 
are  we  under  such  servitude  to  the  lawyers  that  an  obsolete  act 
without  force  or  meaning  should  have  hung  us  up  for  a  year  in 
Chancery  ?  If  1  do  not  learn  before  the  end  of  the  year  that 
the  money  is  paid  and  placed,  I  shall  be  as  miserable  as  pecuniary 
events  can  make  me ;  when  it  is  done  I  am  easy  and  happy  for 
life.  In  the  midst  of  your  arduous  affairs  I  do  not  suspect  any 
failure  of  zeal,  but  I  now  call  upon  you  to  redouble  your  speed, 
and  to  strain  every  nerve  till  we  have  reached  the  goal.  Till 
the  present  business  1  never  imagined  that  it  was  difficult  to  find 
people  who  would  take  your  money.  It  is  lucky  that  Sainsbury 
has  consented  to  leave  £8000  on  Buriton  :  with  regard  to  the 
remainder  I  leave  it  absolutely  to  your  judgement,  but  since  you 
distrust  with  reason  private  bond  security,  I  see  no  other  way 
than  throwing  it  into  the  funds  ;  a  short  delay  might  be  allowed 
in  expectation  of  their  sinking,  but  the  rise  and  fall  are  so  un- 
certain, that  it  might  be  the  '  rusticus  expectat  dum  defluat  amnis.' 
In  the  mean  while  Buriton  rent  must  be  paid,  and  as  the  two 
quarters  due  at  Lady  day  had  been  neglected,  the  whole  year  till 
last  Michaelmas  must  be  rigorously  exacted.  I  do  not  believe 
(though  I  would  not  give  a  gentleman  the  lye)  that  you  ever 
asked  me  the  question  about  Mrs.  G.'s  jointure  :  it  will  be  an 
handsome,  an  easy  compliment  to  give  her  a  right  to  the  three 
hundred  which  I  pay  her  in  fact. 

Let  us  now  make  a  tour  to  Newhaven.  Upon  the  whole  I 
am  very  well  satisfied.  You  remark  that  about  February,  1788, 
the  old  Saint  decimated  her  nephew  :  but  have  you  forgot  that 
her  atheistical  nephew  had  neglected  to  accept  her  invitation  and 
would  not  even  write  her  a  civil  letter  ?  surely  he  has  no  right  to 
complain.  I  am  ignorant  of  the  character  and  behaviour  of  the 
Laws,  but  in  the  general  principle  of  preferring  friends  to  rela- 
tions, I  think  her  perfectly  right. — You  were  not  surely  impatient 
for  an  answer  to  your  proposal :  it  demands  the  coolest  delibera- 
tion, and  there  cannot  be  the  smallest  occasion  for  dispatch.  I 
will  however  impart  such  ideas  as  have  arisen. 

1.  I  agree  with  Batt  in  thinking  it  an  unwise  measure  for 
yourself.    Is  this  a  time  to  diminish  your  income  when  you 


232  GIBBON'S  COREESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

must  enlarge  or  at  least  support  your  expence,  when  you  know 
that  for  seven  years  to  come  you  will  not  enjoy  the  benefit  of 
a  single  winter  fallow  ?  If  you  have  timber  it  will  be  sufficiently 
wanted  for  your  annual  supplies. 

2.  The  balance  of  my  fortune  and  my  wishes  depends  on  a 
contingency  which  I  have  neither  power  nor  inclination  to  hasten. 
As  soon  as  the  Belvidere  subsides,  I  am  rich  beyond  all  my  plans 
of  expence  at  Lausanne.  Every  winter  such  an  event  is  probable, 
and  it  is  highly  probable  that  it  will  happen  in  three  or  four 
winters.  It  is  indeed  possible  that  a  fine  thread  may  be  drawn 
to  a  great  length  without  breaking,  and  if  I  turned  a  landed 
estate  into  an  annuity,  I  should  never  be  at  a  loss  to  employ  the 
superfluity.  If  my  heir,  the  creature  of  my  choice  does  not  think 
he  has  enough,  the  dog  has  too  much. 

557. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Sheffield  Place,  3rd  Jan.,  1791. 

It  occurs  to  me  in  the  midst  of  much  hurry,  that  you  may 
have  a  wish  for  further  information  on  the  subject  of  the  Madeira. 
It  was  shipped  for  Ostend  on  the  3rd  Dec,  with  full  and  ample 
instructions  (according  to  your  own  directions)  for  its  convey- 
ance to  Basle,  where  it  is  to  wait  your  further  orders.  I  suppose 
that  on  the  receipt  of  my  former  letter  you  wrote  to  your  corre- 
spondent there. 

The  Wine  is  gone  in  one  hogshead  and  one  tierce,  marked 
&  No.  E.  G.  No.  1  &  2. 

The  Bill  as  follows— 

£    s.   d. 


No.  1.  6  doz.   finest  Malmsey  sealed  red — 

on  board    ...         ...         ...         ...         ... 

17 

4 

0 

G  doz.  Bottles 

1 

1 

0 

No.  2.  One  Hogshead  best  Old  Madeira — 

on  board    ...         ...         ...         ...         ... 

39 

0 

0 

1   Hogshead — 1   Tierce — 1   Case    & 

Bills  of  Lading      

1 

10 

8 

59     5     8 
Probably  it  is  the  best  wine  of  the  kind  that  ever  reached  the 


1791.]  GIBBON'S  SERIOUS  ILLNESS.  233 

centre  of  Europe.  You  will  remember  that  an  Hogshead  is  on 
his  travels  through  the  torrid  zone  for  you.  I  suppose  you  do 
not  mean  to  decline  it  when  it  arrives.  No  wine  is  meliorated  to 
a  greater  degree  by  keeping  than  Madeira,  and  you  latterly 
appeared  so  ravenous  for  it,  that  I  must  conceive  you  wish  to 
have  a  stock. 

I  have  had  a  Congress  with  Sainsbury,  &c.  The  business 
has  been  referred  to  the  Master  of  the  Rolls.  I  have  talked 
with  the  Master.  It  seems  in  good  train.  The  conveyance 
is  preparing.  The  message  of  young  Porten  is  very  trouble- 
some. Sainsbury  wished  to  avoid  taking  the  £8000  on  mortgage. 
I  remonstrated  strongly.  He  agreed,  handsomely,  to  take  it 
rather  than  embarrass.  I  have  promised  £4000  on  a  Yorkshire 
mortgage.  I  have  been  very  busy  in  Town.  I  am  glad  I  cannot 
finish  the  Faper,  because  you  are  such  a  worthless  fellow,  that  you 
do  not  answer  even  on  business. 

Yours  ever, 

S. 

N.B. — The  Birth  of  Maria,  &  the  Justices  are  waiting  for  me 
at  the  Inn. 

558. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

1791. 

*Yom'  indignation  will  melt  into  pity,  when  you  hear  that  for 
several  weeks  past  I  have  been  again  confined  to  my  chamber  and 
my  chair.  Yet  I  must  hasten,  generously  hasten,  to  exculpate  the 
Gout,  my  old  enemy,  from  the  curses  which  you  already  pour  on 
his  head.  He  is  not  the  cause  of  this  disorder,  although  the  con- 
sequences have  been  somewhat  similar.*  After  some  days  of  fever 
and  a  most  violent  oppression  in  my  head  and  stomach,  the 
morbid  humour  forced  itself  into  my  right  leg,  which  was  covered 
from  my  knee  to  my  toe  with  a  strong  inflammatory  ErisipeJe  or 
Rash.  I  was  gradually  relieved  by  a  plentiful  discharge  of  pus 
atque  Venenum  (excuse  the  indelicacy)  which,  according  to  my 
Physician,  has  surpassed  that  of  fifty  blisters.  The  skin  has  been 
compleatly  renewed,  and  I  now  crawl  about  the  house  upon  two 
sticks.  *I  am  satisfied  that  this  effort  of  nature  has  saved  me 
from  a  very  dangerous,  perhaps  a  fatal,  crisis  ;  and  I  listen  to  the 
flattering  hope  that  it  may  tend  to  keep  the  Gout  at  a  more 


234  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

respectful  distance.*  You  will  determine  whether  it  ought  to 
raise  or  sink  the  purchase  of  my  annuity. 

I  must  confess  that  I  am  disappointed,  vexed,  harrassed, 
fatigued  with  the  strange  procrastination  of  the  Buriton  affairs 
which  are  now  verging  to  the  end  of  the  second  year.  In 
former  transactions  while  we  were  fighting  with  knaves  and 
madmen  nothing  could  surprise,  but  in  this  amicable  connection 
with  a  willing  and  able  purchaser,  it  is  indeed  provoking  that 
term  after  term  we  should  be  hung  up  (a  most  proper  expression) 
in  the  forms  of  the  Court  of  Chancery.  You  are  now  on  the 
spot,  and  I  conjure  you  by  every  tye  of  friendship  and  humanity 
to  steal  some  moments  from  the  service  of  Bristol,  to  strain  every 
nerve  of  your  active  genius,  and  to  send  me  a  speedy  and  satis- 
factory account  that  the  business  is  terminated,  and  the  money 
paid.  The  funds  are  indeed  so  very  high,  that  I  agree  with  you 
in  preferring  a  clear  four  per  cent,  which  they  do  not  yield,  on 
the  solid  basis  of  the  Earth,  I  mean  on  good  landed  security.  I 
therefore  much  approve  of  your  holding  Sainsbury  to  his  engage- 
ment of  retaining  the  £8000  on  the  mortgage  of  Buriton's  own 
self,  and  hope  you  will  not  fail  of  success  in  registering  £4000 
more  in  Yorkshire.  Should  any  loose  hundreds  remain,  they  may 
be  best  added  to  my  India  bonds  in  Gosling's  hands.  I  much 
fear  that  another  half  year  from  Buriton  wiU  become  due  (at 
Lady-day),  and  hope  you  will  order  Andrews  to  exact  it  without 
mercy  or  delay. 

I  feel  myself  much  embarrassed  how  to  define  or  establish  my 
claims  on  Hugonin.  We  always  treated  with  the  confidence  of 
friends,  and  the  ease  of  Gentlemen,  and  his  short  accounts,  from 
art  or  accident,  were  always  so  vague,  that  I  could  never  discern 
to  what  half  year  his  remittances  applied.  I  am  satisfied  that 
two  years  or  at  least  eighteen  months  have  never  been  accounted 
for ;  but  on  the  most  moderate  footing  I  may  demand  the 
year's  rent  which  ended  at  Michaelmas  1788,  and  which  was 
not  paid  when  I  left  England.  The  agency  of  Hugonin  will 
not  be  disputed,  the  Tenant's  receipt  will  prove  that  it  was 
paid  into  his  hands,  and  even  the  silence  of  Gosling's  books 
will  afford  some  evidence  that  it  never  was  remitted  for  my 
use.  Besides,  will  not  the  onus  prohandi  rest  on  Hugonin's 
heirs,  who  ought  to  produce  my  discharge  ?  On  recollection  I 
may  even  state  my  damages  at  eighteen  months,  since  according 


1791.]  ACCEPTS  ANNUITY  FOR  NEWHAVEN.  235 

to  a  vile  abuse,  the  tenant  only  paid  at  Michaelmas  the  year's  rent 
which  had  been  due  the  previous  Lady-day. 

I  now  proceed  to  the  important  business  of  Newhaven,  and 
am  not  sorry  that  we  have  both  of  us  taken  sufficient  time  to 
avoid  the  reproach  of  rash  and  precipitate  measures.  As  you  are 
not  an  infant  I  will  decline  any  farther  remonstrance  of  what 
may  be  proper  or  improper  for  yourself,  and  will  think  solely  of 
my  own  interest.  After  mature  consideration  I  am  resolved  to 
amplify  my  income  by  the  sale  of  Newhaven,  leaving  one  half  of 
the  purchase  money  to  sink  in  an  Annuity  and  the  other  half  to 
swim  in  a  Mortgage.  My  old  scruples  against  pecuniary  trans- 
actions with  a  friend  are  much  diminished  by  my  experience  of 
the  delays  and  difficulties  which  occur  in  a  treaty  with  a  stranger, 
and  I  flatter  myself  that  you  will  not  think  it  necessary  to 
ascertain  my  title  to  the  Estate  by  an  amicable  suit  in  Chancery. 
Your  statement  is  impartial  and  your  terms  are  liberal  :  Twenty- 
eight  years'  purchase  appears  a  fair  price  for  an  Estate  circum- 
stanced like  mine,  and  I  am  not  ambitious  of  paying  more  than 
twelve  years  for  the  chance  of  my  earthly  existence.  But  I  do 
not  perfectly  acquiesce  in  your  striking  off  the  casual  profits  to 
balance  the  casual  losses  and  repairs,  and  I  must  request  that  you 
would  try  a  very  simple  calculation  :  Supposing  the  three  per 
Cents  at  eighty,  your  landed  estate,  after  deducting  every  possible 
outgoing,  would  pay  you  as  good  interest  as  yom*  money  in  the  funds- 
Is  such  an  equality  reasonable  ?  Should  you  pay  nothing  for  the 
solid  security  of  land  ?  Is  the  National  Debt  less  exposed  than  the 
Sussex  acres  to  be  swallowed  in  the  Ocean  ?  The  calculation  is  easy. 

Clear  rent  of  Newhaven  after  deducting       *     ^*    ^* 

Land-tax  and  quitrents 
Interest  paid  by  the  Tenant  on  £154  at 

4  per  cent. 
Casual  profits  on  an  average 


£  £ 

4000  mortgage  IGO 
3280  annuity     273 

£433 


234 

17 

10 

6 

0 

0 

19 

13 

4 

£260 

11 

2 

28 

),  of 

£728C 

which 

236  GIBBON'S   COERESPOXDENCE.  [1791. 

Suppose  we  reduce  this  sum  to  £7000  and  divide  it  equally,  the 
produce  will  be  £430  (£140  for  the  Mortgage,  £290  for  the 
Annuity).  I  cannot  think  my  expectations  quite  unreasonable, 
but  I  leave  the  final  arbitration  to  yourself,  as  if  we  were  treating 
with  a  third  person,  and  I  authorize  you  to  conclude  with  Lord 
Sheffield  on  such  conditions  as  I  ought  to  ask  and  he  will  be 
disposed  to  give.  The  farm  itself  wiU  never  answer  for  the 
Mortgage,  and  yon  will  obtain  a  good  and  sufficient  security  for 
the  annuity.  In  the  meanwhile  I  should  be  glad  to  know  when 
I  may  expect  the  payment  of  some  rent,  and  from  what  date  it 
will  begin  to  accrue  to  me. 

N.B.— Your  own  offer  is  £4200,  the  Mortgage  ;  £280  Annuity. 
But  arithmetic  is  erroneous  :  3052  divided  by  12  do  not  produce 
280  but  only  254.  You  are  a  pretty  man  of  business.  So  much 
for  Newhaven. 

Since  we  are  talking  of  "Wills,  I  must  request  that  you 
would  commit  mine  to  the  flames.  By  the  first  opportunity  I 
wiU  send  you  the  duplicate  of  another  which  I  have  constructed 
on  more  rational  principles.  You  will  not  disapprove  the  pre- 
ference which  I  now  give  to  the  children  of  Sir  Stanier  Porten : 
they  are  the  nearest,  the  most  indigent  and  the  most  deserving 
of  my  relations. 

*The  whole  sheet  has  been  filled  with  dry  selfish  business  ;  but 
I  must  and  will  reserve  some  lines  of  the  cover  for  a  little  friendly 
conversation.  I  passed  four  days  at  the  castle  of  Copet  with 
Xecker  ;  and  could  have  wished  to  have  shown  him,  as  a  warning 
to  any  aspiring  youth  possessed  with  the  Daemon  of  ambition.^ 
With  aU  the  means  of  private  happiness  in  his  power,  he  is  the 
most  miserable  of  human  beings :  the  past,  the  present,  and  the 
future  are  equally  odious  to  him.  "When  I  suggested  some 
domestic  amusements  of  books,  building,  &c.  he  answered,  with  a 
deep  tone  of  despair,  "  Dans  I'etat  oii  je  suis,  je  ne  puis  sentir  que 
le  coup  de  vent  qui  m'a  abbattu."  How  different  from  the  care- 
less chearfulness  with  which  our  poor  friend  Lord  North  sup- 
ported his  fall  I  Madame  Xecker  maintains  more  external 
composure,  nmis  U  DlaUe  ii'y  perd  rien.  It  is  true  that  Xecker 
wished  to  be   carried  into  the    Closet,  Uke  old   Pitt,   on   the 

*  "Mr.  Gibbon  writes  tbat  he  has  seen  Necker,  and  found  him  still 
devoured  by  ambition,  and  I  should  think  by  mortification  at  the  foolish 
figure  he  has  made"  (Walpole  to  the  Miss  Berrys,  February  28,  1791). 


1791.]  PEAISE  OF  BUEKE'S  BEFLECTIONS.  237 

shoulders  of  the  people  ;  and  that  he  has  been  ruined  by  the 
Democracy  which  he  had  raised.  I  believe  him  to  be  an  able 
financier,  and  know  him  to  be  an  honest  man  ;  too  honest, 
perhaps,  for  a  minister.  His  rival  Calonne  has  passed  through 
Lausanne,  in  his  way  from  Turin  ;  and  was  soon  followed  by  the 
Prince  of  Coude,  with  his  son  and  grandson  ;  ^  but  I  was  too 
much  indisposed  to  see  them.  They  have,  or  have  had,  some 
wild  projects  of  a  counter-revolution :  horses  have  been  bought, 
men  levied,  and  the  Canton  of  Berne  has  too  much  countenanced 
such  foolish  attempts  which  must  end  in  the  ruin  of  the  party. 

Bm'ke's  book  -  is  a  most  admirable  medicine  against  the  French 
disease,  which  has  made  too  much  progress  even  in  this  happy 
country.  I  admire  his  eloquence,  I  approve  his  politics,  I  adore 
his  chivalry,  and  I  can  forgive  even  his  superstition.  The  primi- 
tive Church,  which  I  have  treated  with  some  freedom,  was  itself 
at  that  time  an  innovation,  and  I  was  attached  to  the  old  Pagan 
establishment.  The  French  spread  so  many  lyes  about  the 
sentiments  of  the  English  nation,  that  I  wish  the  most  consider- 
able men  of  all  parties  and  descriptions  would  join  in  some 
public  act,  declaring  themselves  satisfied  with  and  resolved  to 
support  our  present  constitution.  Such  a  declaration  would  have 
a  wonderful  effect  in  Europe  ;  and,  were  I  thought  worthy,  I 
myself  should  be  proud  to  subscribe  it.  I  have  a  great  mind  to 
send  you  something  of  a  sketch,  such  as  all  thinking  men  might 
adopt. 

I  have  intelligence  of  the  approach  of  my  Madeira,  and  on  its 
receipt  will  despatch  a  draught  for  the  payment.  I  accept  with 
equal  pleasure  the  second,  now  in  the  torrid  zone.  Send  me  some 
pleasant  details  of  your  domestic  state,  of  Maria,  &c.  If  my 
lady  thinks  that  my  silence  is  a  mark  of  indifference,  my  lady 

'  Louis  Joseph,  Prince  de  Conde'  (1736-1818),  was  the  son  of  the  Due  de 
Bourbon  who  was  minister  to  Louis  XV.  He  had  served  in  the  Seven  Years' 
War,  and  commanded  the  emigres  on  the  banks  of  the  Rhine,  who  were 
known  as  the  arrn^e  de  Condd'.  Both  his  son  and  grandson  died  by  violence. 
His  son,  the  Due  de  Bourbon  (1756-1830),  was  found  hanged  in  his  room. 
Suspicion,  probably  without  reason,  fell  on  his  mistress,  Madame  de  Feucheres, 
With  him  was  extinguished  the  family  of  Conde,  for  the  grandson  here 
mentioned  was  the  Due  d'Enghien  (1772-1804)  who  was  shot  at  Vincennes 
in  1804. 

'  Burke's  Reflections  on  the  Revolution  in  France  were  published  in 
October,  1790.  "  Gibbon  admires  Burke  to  the  skies,  and  even  the  religions 
parts,  he  says  "  ("Walpole  to  the  Miss  Berrys,  February  28,  1791). 


238  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

is  a  goose.  I  must  have  you  all  at  Lausanne  next  summer.* 
Apropos,  I  must  have  £3000  on  Annuity  and  £3000  on  Mortgage  : 
the  surplus  you  may  divide  as  you  like  best.  I  wish  you  would 
not  enclose  your  letters  to  Paris.  I  have  no  longer  any  connec- 
tions with  Lessert,  and  they  desire  not  to  be  troubled  with 
them. 


559. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon, 

Downing  Street,  5th  Feb.,  1791. 

"We  remained  in  the  country  to  the  last  moment,  &  I  came  to 
Town  furious  against  you  on  account  of  your  neglect  of  writing, 
but  on  reaching  Lord  Guilford,^  I  learned  that  you  had  been 
very  ill,  &  I  was  completely  softened  and  no  longer  abusive. 
His  information  came  from  Major  Frank  North,  who  added  that 
you  were  recovering. 

Now  are  you  not  a  damned  good-for-nothing  fellow  for  not 
recollecting  that  we  might  hear  you  were  ill,  &  therefore  not 
desiring  De  Severy  to  write  a  line  to  mention  that  you  were 
recovering  ?  I  have  for  a  long  time  exhorted  my  Lady  to  write  to 
him.  I  think  she  will  now  favour  him  with  a  Philipick.  What 
has  been  the  matter  ?  for  my  account  does  not  say  whether  it  has 
been  the  gout  only  or  something  more.  I  shall  be  really  sulky  if 
you  do  not  write  one  line.  We  are  much  annoyed.  I  went  to 
Elmsley  &  he  knew  nothing. 

I  will  not  write  to  you  on  business  until  a  fragment  arrives 
from  you,  except  to  say  the  Business  has  stopped  in  hopes  of 
information  from  you  relative  to  the  amount  of  Hugonin's  debt  to 
you.  You  know  I  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  affairs  between 
you  and  him,  and  of  course  could  not  make  out  the  ballance. 
Andrews  has  stated  it  to  me  at  £347  2s.  Sd.  I  supposed  it  to 
be  more,  therefore  waited  to  hear  from  you ;  but  I  have  an 
Affidavit  ready  prepared  to  make  before  a  Master  for  that  amount ; 
that  operation  is  necessary  before  any  further  progress  can  be 
made.     In  addition  to  my  other  occupations  I  am  more  busied 

'  The  Earl  of    Guilford  (1704-1790)  died  August  4,  1790,  and  was 
succeeded  by  his  eldest  son  Frederick,  better  known  as  Lord  North. 


1791.]  THE  CORN  LAWS  AND  SLAVE  TRADE.  239 

than  ever  I  was  in  my  life  about  a  Corn  Bill  ^  now  depending, 
(as  great  a  business  as  I  have  ever  undertaken).  I  examined 
it  well  during  the  Keeess,  and  made  ample  notes  on  my  arrival ; 
I  have  shewn  them  to  Batt  and  Sir  Joseph,  and  they  recommend 
strenuously  that  I  should  publish  them  with  my  name.  They  say 
it  is  too  argumentative,  it  requires  too  much  consideration,  for  a 
speech.  They  think  it  will  do  me  great  credit.  They  add  it  is 
impossible  even  for  a  very  able  man  in  the  art  of  speaking  and  in 
the  habit,  to  do  it  justice  in  a  speech.  In  short,  I  am  obliged  to 
undertake  publication  in  such  an  hurry  as  will  not  produce  your 
commendation.  The  question  comes  on  in  a  week.  I  find  the 
first  Edition  of  my  Observations  on  the  Project  for  AhoJkhhuj  the 
Slave  Trade  ^  was  not  sent  to  you.  I  have  delivered  the  second 
Edition  to  Elmsley  to  be  forwarded  when  there  is  an  opportunity. 
I  learned  from  hun  that  you  had  not  received  Burke's  Pamphlet. 

If  you  had  not  been  ill  I  should  have  talked  to  you  as  you  deserve 
about  the  addition  to  your  History.  It  is  as  it  should  be,  that  I 
am  to  hear  of  that  addition  for  the  first  time  from  Newspapers  or 
accidental  correspondents.  I  did  not  believe  the  circumstance 
until  everybody  was  convinced  of  it,  and  Mr.  Cadell's  information 
was  general.    It  is  intolerable. 

560. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edivard  Gihlon. 

Downing  Street,  15th  March,  1791. 

Your  manuscript  at  last  received  exhilarated  us  very  consider- 
ably. We  heard  you  were  better,  but  did  not  exactly  know  the 
state  of  things.  We  had  almost  made  up  our  minds  to  go  to  see 
you  in  a  snug  party  for  a  month  or  two  in  the  summer,  but  now 

'  Lord  Sheffield's  Observations  on  the  Corn  Bill  now  depending  in  Parlia- 
ment  was  published  in  1791.  The  Corn  Regulation  Bill  was  introduced 
early  in  that  year.  The  House  went  into  committee  on  the  Bill  on  February 
22,  1791,  Lord  Sheffield  protesting  against  its  principle,  but  not  dividing  the 
House.  Lord  Sheffield  twice  beat  Pitt  (March  11  and  April  11)  on  the 
question  of  warehousing  foreign  corn.  He  also  argued  for  52s.  instead  of 
48s.  as  the  lowest  price  at  which,  in  the  interest  of  farmers,  it  was  possible 
to  admit  foreign  corn  (April  4). 

«  Lord  Sheffield  opposed  Wilberforce's  motion  (April  18,  1791)  for  the 
Abolition  of  the  Slave  Trade  on  the  ground  that  the  West  Indian  Assemblies 
alone  could  deal  with  the  question  fairly  in  all  its  bearings. 


240  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

you  are  well  we  do  not  care  so  much  about  you.  Maria  says  the 
allowance  of  a  year's  purchase  is  a  fair  offer,  and  my  Lady  is  still 
more  eager  to  go  than  Maria. 

I  know  not  how  I  made  the  mistake  in  saying  the  annuity 
should  be  £280  instead  of  £254,  but  on  the  receipt  of  your 
letter,  I  desired  Woodcock  to  make  out  the  conveyance  for 
£3000  in  an  annuity  at  12  years'  purchase  (£250)  and  £4000 
on  Mortgage  at  4  per  cent.,  £160  together  with  £410.  You  will 
observe  that  I  have  somewhat  diminished  the  sum  to  be  laid  out 
on  an  annuity  and  encreased  the  sum  on  Mortgage,  thinking  it 
better  for  you.  Unfortunately  for  you,  since  the  above  arrange- 
ment, I  have  discovered  that  besides  the  outgoings  I  mentioned 
to  you  there  is  a  Fee  Farm  rent  of  £5  8s.  Od.  payable  out  of 
the  Estate,  which  at  28  years'  purchase  makes  a  deduction  of 
£151  4s.  Of?.  Be  assured  that  you  are  a  damned  Jew,  otherwise 
you  would  have  been  content  with  the  £G700  which  I  profferred  to 
you,  and  I  think  you  ought  still.  I  propose  that  the  annuity 
and  mortgage  interest  shall  begin  from  Lady-day  ensuing,  and 
the  Deeds  shall  be  sent  to  you  whenever  I  can  prevail  on 
"Woodcock  to  prepare  them.  The  Annuity  shall  be  payable 
out  of  certain  farms  at  Sheffield,  and  the  £4000  mortgage  shall 
be  on  the  Newhaven  Estate.  The  Mortgage  Deeds,  &c.,  shall 
be  left  in  Batt's  hands  for  your  account.  It  is  observable 
that  I  am  paying  you  £4000  for  the  reversion  of  the  Estate, 
and  in  the  meantime  more  than  the  annual  clear  income  of 
it.  I  am  purchasing  Lord  Heathfield's  House  and  Estate  in 
Sussex,  14  miles  from  Sheffield,  for  Sir  Henry  Clinton.  Only 
25  years'  purchase,  deducting  every  outgoing,  is  asked,  and  the 
timber  (which  will  be  very  advantageous)  is  rated  very  moderately. 

You  have  often  remarked  how  singular  your  ill-luck  is  as  to 
sales  and  titles  to  Estates.  Be  it  known  to  you  that  the  conveyance 
of  the  Newhaven  Estate  to  your  Grandfather  is  lost.  All  the  other 
old  writings  belonging  to  it  were  found  carefully  tyed  up  and 
transmitted  to  me  by  Mr.  Law.  The  Lawyers  say,  as  I  know  the 
circumstances  of  the  Estate  and  Family,  it  is  such  a  title  as  I  may 
take  if  I  please.  Yet  that  I  should  not  be  able  to  sell  it  again 
but  to  disadvantage,  I  answer  that  I  do  not  wish  it  to  be  sold 
again.  Thus  it  appears  you  could  not  easily  sell  to  anybody  but 
me.  As  to  the  Buriton  business,  I  have  been  almost  afraid  to  tell 
you  that  it  is  still  hung  up.     It  is  again  referred  to  a  Master  in 


1791.]  THE  LABOURING  OAR  IX  THE  HOUSE.  241 

Chancery.  However,  there  is  no  step  neglected  that  can  bring  it 
to  a  conclusion,  and  I  hope  it  cannot  hold  on  much  longer.  I 
have  made  out  that  Hugonin  was  indebted  to  you  to  the  amount 
of  a  year  and  a  half  of  Buriton.  I  have  sworn  to  the  account, 
and  you  will  receive  at  least  ten  shillings  in  the  pound.  Hugonin, 
his  Mistress  and  daughter  are  all  dead  within  two  years.  You  will 
have  £8000  on  Mortgage  in  Hampshire,  £4000  in  Sussex,  and 
£4000  in  Yorkshire.     All  good  strings  to  your  bow. 

The  account  of  your  undergoing  a  drain  equal  to  fifty  blisters 
furnishes  me  with  some  satisfaction,  as  we  think  it  will  be 
serviceable  to  your  fat  carcase.  You  have  proven  me  busy,  but  I 
was  comparatively  at  leisure.  I  have  illuminated  the  Corn  Laws. 
The  subject  was  not  understood.  The  Pamphlet  written  in  a  few 
days  is  in  great  repute.  You  will  abuse  it  because  I  only  attended 
to  the  sense  in  writing  it.  I  have  the  labouring  oar  in  the  House 
of  Commons.  I  shall  write  again  soon.  In  the  meantime  you 
must  write  by  return  of  post,  if  you  wish  any  other  distribution  of 
the  money. 

I  am  on  a  Conmiittee  every  day  from  ten  to  four. 


561. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  April  9th,  1791. 

I  ivill  say  no  more,  because  I  can  say  no  more  on  the  unfor- 
tunate subject  of  Buriton,  the  most  unlucky  because  the  least 
expected  of  all  my  worldly  embarrassments.  Tell  me  fairly 
whether  you  suspect  any  secret  management,  or  any  legal 
chicanery,  &c.,  on  the  side  of  the  purchasers.  If  they  are  sincere 
and  willing  as  ourselves,  what  hinders  that  we  should  give  posses- 
sion, we  of  the  land  and  they  of  the  money,  and  let  the  Master  in 
<!;hancery  make  his  report  whenever  it  may  amuse  him  ?  If  such 
a  scheme  be  impracticable,  goad,  I  conjure  you,  the  lawyers  and 
fix  a  day,  a  definite  day,  a  short  day  for  the  final  conclusion,  for 
my  release  from  a  state  of  suspense  which  keeps  me  hanging 
between  heaven  and  earth. 

You  say  nothing  of  what  rent  may  be  due  from  Newhaven, 
and  of  the  payment  of  my  wretched  legacy.  ]\Iy  repairs  and 
improvements  have  now  run  away  with  a  great  deal  of  money,  and 

VOL.  II.  R 


\ 


242  GIBBON'S   COREESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

my  cash  account  with  the  Goslings  has  seldom  been  so  low.  It 
would,  however,  suffice  to  pay  for  the  Madeira  which  is  arrived  in 
perfect  health  :  but  with  my  usual  accuracy  I  have  lost  the  account. 
After  mature  consideration  I  accept  your  terms  of  £250 
annuity  and  four  thousand  mortgage  with  the  security  which  you 
propose  ;  the  former  on  some  farms  at  Sheffield  (doubtless  of  a 
more  ample  produce),  the  latter  on  the  Newhaven  estate,  the 
imperfect  title  of  which  it  will  not  become  me  to  dispute.  Not- 
withstanding your  recent  discovery  of  a  fee  farm  rent,  I  think 
you  win  still  have  a  very  good  bargain  ;  but  if  you  are  obstinate, 
you  may  strike  off  ten  pounds  a  year  from  the  Annuity,  for  your 
chance  of  getting  back  any  money  would  be  a  very  poor  one 
indeed. — ^With  regard  to  the  writings,  I  have  no  objection  to  the 
method  which  you  propose  of  lodging  them  in  Batt's  hands.  I  do 
not  recollect  anything  more  on  the  subject  of  business,  since  I 
have  already  approved  of  the  distribution  of  the  purchase  money. 
£8000  on  Buriton,  £4000  in  Yorkshire,  the  loose  residue,  if  any, 
in  the  funds.  We  may  therefore  proceed  to  more  interesting  and 
less  interested  topics. 

*First,  of  my  health  ;  It  is  now  tolerably  restored  :  my  legs  are 
still  weak,  but  the  animal  in  general  is  in  a  sound  and  lively  con- 
dition ;  and  we  have  great  hopes  from  the  fine  weather  and  the 
Pyrmont  waters.     I  most  sincerely  wished  for  the  presence  of 
Maria,  to  embellish  a  ball  which  I  gave  the  29th  of  last  month  to 
all  the  best  company,  natives  and  foreigners,  of  Lausanne,  with 
the  aid  of  the  Severys,  especially  of  the  mother  and  son,  who 
directed  the  economy,  and  performed  the  honours  of  the  Fete. 
It  opened  about  seven  in  the  evening  ;  the  assembly  of  men  and 
women  was  pleased  and  pleasing,  the  music  good,  the  illumination 
splendid,  the  refreshments  profuse  :  at  twelve,  one  hundred  and 
thirty  persons  sat  down  to  a  very  good  supper ;  at  two,  I  stole 
away  to  bed,  in  a  snug  corner  ;  and  I  was  informed  at  breakfast, 
that  the  remains  of  the  Veteran  and  young  troops,  with  Severy  and 
his  sister  at  their  head,  had  concluded  the  last  dance  about  a 
quarter  before  seven.    This  magnificent  entertainment  has  gained 
me  great  credit ;  and  the  expence  was  more  reasonable  than  you 
can  easily  imagine.     This  was  an  extraordinary  event,  but  I  give 
frequent  dinners  ;  and  in  the  summer  I  have  an  assembly  every 
Sunday  evening.    What  a  wicked  wretch  !  says  Lady  Pantile. 
I  cannot  pity  you  for  the  accumulation  of  business,  as  you 


1791.]  A  BARGAIN  WITH  THE  SHEFFIELDS.  243 

ought  not  to  pity  me,  if  I  complained  of  the  tranquillity  of 
Lausanne :  we  suffer  or  enjoy  the  effects  of  our  own  choice. 
Perhaps  you  will  mutter  something  of  our  not  being  born  for  our- 
selves, of  public  spirit  (I  have  formerly  read  of  such  a  thing),  of 
private  friendship,  for  which  I  give  you  full  and  ample  credit,  &c. 
But  your  parliamentary  operations,  at  least,  will  probably  expire 
in  the  month  of  June  ;  and  I  shall  refuse  to  sign  the  Newhaven 
conveyance,  unless  I  am  satisfied  that  you  will  execute  the 
Lausanne  visit  this  summer.  On  the  1 5th  of  June,  suppose  lord, 
lady,  Maria,  and  maid,  (poor  Louisa !)  in  a  post  coach,  with 
Etienne  on  horseback,  set  out  from  Downing-street,  or  Sheffield- 
place,  cross  the  Channel  from  Brighton  to  Dieppe,  visit  the 
national  assembly,  buy  caps  at  Paris,  examine  the  ruins  of 
Versailles,  and  arrive  at  Lausanne,  without  danger  or  fatigue,  the 
second  week  in  July  ;  you  will  be  lodged  pleasantly  and  comfort- 
ably, and  will  not  perhaps  despise  my  situation.  A  couple  of 
months  will  roll,  alas  !  too  hastily  away  ;  you  will  all  be  amused 
by  new  scenes,  new  people  ;  and  whenever  Maria  and  you,  with 
Severy,  mount  on  horseback  to  visit  the  country,  the  Glaciers,  &c., 
My  lady  and  myself  shall  form  a  very  quiet  tete-a-tete  at  home. 
In  September,  if  you  are  tired,  you  may  return  by  a  direct  or 
indirect  way  ;  but  I  only  desire  that  you  will  not  make  the  plan 
impracticable  by  grasping  at  too  much.  In  return,  I  promise  you 
a  visit  of  three  or  four  months  in  the  autumn  of  ninety-two  :  you 
and  my  booksellers  are  now  my  principal  attractions  in  England. 
You  had  some  right  to  growl  at  hearing  of  my  supplement  in  the 
papers  :  but  Cadell's  indiscretion  was  founded  on  a  loose  hint 
which  I  had  thrown  out  in  a  letter,  and  which  in  all  probability 
will  never  be  executed.    Yet  I  am  not  totally  idle.    Adieu.* 


562. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihloji. 

Downing  Street,  2l8t  April,  1791. 
At  length  the  Buriton  business  is  almost  concluded,  and  all 
your  and  my  cares  on  that  subject  will  be  at  an  end,  the  moment 
I  receive  the  Deeds  which  were  sent  to  you  early  this  morning 
for  signature.  The  Masters  in  Chancery  are  the  Devils,  and  I 
should  not  have  expressed  myself  much  more  amiably  of  the 


244:  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

Master  of  the  Rolls,  if  he  had  not  been  at  last  particularly  atten- 
tive to  my  exhortations  to  dispatch.  All  difficulties  are  at  end, 
the  conveyances,  &c.,  engrossed,  and  one  part  of  them  are  gone  to 
you,  because  Lord  Stawell's  Lawyers  wish  you  to  sign  that  part, 
notwithstanding  they  drew  up  the  Power  of  Attorney  which  you 
signed  to  enable  me. 

At  the  same  time  are  gone  the  Deeds  which  convey  New- 
haven  from  Ed.  Gibbon  to  Lord  Sheffield,  reciting  the  £4000 
on  Mortgage  and  the  annuity  of  £250  per  Ann.  The  con- 
veyance is  to  J.  T.  Batt  to  the  use  of  Lord  Sheffield.  Batt 
is  Trustee  ;  and  the  Deeds,  when  returned  with  the  other 
writings  belonging  to  the  Estate,  must  be  left  in  his  hands  as 
such,  not  only  on  account  of  the  Mortgage  of  £4000,  but  also 
because  the  Newhaven  Estate  is  made  subject  to  the  Annuity, 
notwithstanding  a  greater  proportion  of  the  Sheffield  Estate  is 
chargeable  with  it  than  is  necessary  to  pay  the  whole.  It  was 
unnecessary  to  send  you  the  Deed  which  grants  the  Annuity  of 
£250  chargeable  on  Sheffield  and  Newhaven.  It  is  signed  by  me 
and  left  in  Batt's  hands.  He  has  perused  and  examined  the 
drafts  of  the  Conveyance  and  of  the  grant  of  the  annuity  before 
they  were  engrossed. 

There  are  four  deeds  sent  for  your  signature — and  with  them 
directions  as  to  the  parts  where  to  be  signed,  which  parts  are 
marked  with  pencil.  It  is  also  mentioned  that  you  should 
have  English  witnesses.  Frank  North  might  be  one,  and  I  sup- 
pose you  may  find  at  any  time  another  fit  English  witness  at 
Lausanne.  You  will  despatch  as  soon  as  you  can  and  return 
the  writings  immediately.  If  you  give  me  a  line  of  notice  as 
soon  as  they  are  signed  it  will  be  still  better,  and  will  forward, 
and  in  reality  conclude,  matters. 

We  have  not  been  able  to  get  any  intelligence  of  the  con- 
veyance of  the  Newhaven  Estate  to  your  Grandfather,  which 
is  somewhat  strange.  I  mentioned  in  my  last  that  I  had 
given  directions  for  forming  the  conveyance  from  you  to  me, 
previous  to  the  disco\'ery  of  a  Quit-rent,  and  that  I  thought 
you  had  better  pay  me  the  value  of  that  Quit-rent  than  alter 
the  even  sum  of  £4000  Mortgage  or  £250  annuity.  I  must 
therefore  take  28  years'  purchase  for  the  Quit-rent,  and  I  flatter 
myseK  you  are  too  much  of  a  gentleman  and  too  little  of  the  Jew 
to  make  any  objection.    You  have  a  good  bargain,  and  I  would 


1791.]  SNUGNESS  OF  GIBBON'S  AFFAIRS.  245 

sooner  have  seen  you  at  the  Devil  than  have  given  you  so  much, 
if  you  did  not  seem  to  be  under  my  direction  in  these  matters. 

I  almost  envy  you  the  snugness  of  your  affairs.  You  will  be 
a  rich  fellow.  What  a  damned  long  letter  on  such  matter,  to 
make  things  easy  to  the  meanest  capacities. 

Perhaps  I  may  write  soon  on  the  Russian  "War,  the  Slave 
Trade,  and  the  Corn  Bill.  The  first  lias  been  an  extraordinary 
business.  On  the  second  I  was  a  considerable  prop  to  good 
sense  against  nonsense  and  the  most  eloquent  declamation  on 
humanity.  What  think  you  of  shutting  the  Ports  of  the  West 
Indies  ?  It  would  not  have  succeeded  better  than  the  experiment 
at  Boston.     I  have  beaten  Pitt  .3  times  on  the  Corn  Bill. 


563. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edivard  Gihlon. 

Downing  Street,  13tli  May,  1791. 

Nothing  could  be  more  unfair  and  insidious  than  the  propo- 
sition that  you  would  come  here  in  1792,  if  we  would  go  to  you 
in  1791.  It  raised  the  whole  Family,  and  everybody  one  knows, 
against  me.  It  raised  me  against  myself.  It  is  true  in  a  weak 
season,  when  we  supposed  you  poorly,  I  exhibited  a  disposition 
to  go  to  you,  but  when  you  recovered  msurmounfable  difficulties 
occurred.  The  Great  Navigation  in  Sussex  which  is  at  its  crisis 
depends  on  me,  and  a  thousand  other  matters,  besides  expence 
when  I  have  not  got  a  shilling  to  spare.  However,  the  Idea  is 
entertained.  I  am  much  conciliated,  as  I  should  be  to  anything 
that  binds  you  to  a  compact  to  be  here  in  1792.  I  cannot 
prevail  on  myself  at  once  to  say — I  will,  altho'  I  apprehend  I 
must.  Therefore  say  by  the  return  of  the  post,  whether  you 
can  accommodate  the  Louisa,  if  she  should  make  a  fifth  in  the 
Coach  with  My  Lady,  her  woman,  Maria  and  myself.  I  sup- 
pose she  might,  if  necessary,  sleep  with  Maria  or  the  Woman.  I 
have  not  mentioned  this  letter  to  the  Ladies,  but  Maria  is  anxious 
that  Louisa  should  go,  and  we  think  she  is  at  an  age  to  receive 
improvement  even  in  a  visit  for  a  couple  of  months.  I  cannot 
go  sooner  than  the  beginning  of  July,  and  I  must  be  here  early 
in  October.  Desire  our  Friend  De  Severy  to  write  detail  to  me 
on  the  subject  of  the  journey. 


246  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

It  just  occurred  to  write  this  letter.  A  Committee  is  waiting 
for  me,  but  to  make  you  amends,  I  send  you  Woodfall's  account 
of  one  of  the  most  extraordinary  debates  in  Parliament.^ 

Yours  ever, 

S. 


5G4. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  May  18th,  1791. 

.  *I  write  a  short  letter,  on  small  paper,  to  inform  you,  that  the 
various  deeds,  which  arrived  safe  and  in  good  condition,  have 
this  morning  been  sealed,  signed,  and  delivered,  in  the  presence 
of  respectable  and  well  known  English  witnesses,*  though  out  of 
compliment  to  you  I  inserted  one  Irish  evidence,  a  protege  of 
Sarah's,  and  considering  all  things  a  very  pretty  gentleman.  I 
am  very  well  behaved  to  him.  *To  have  read  the  aforesaid  acts, 
would  have  been  difficult ;  to  have  understood  them,  impracticable. 
I  therefore  signed  them  with  my  eyes  shut,  and  in  that  implicit 
confidence,  which  we  freemen  and  Britons  are  humbly  content 
•to  yield  to  our  lawyers  and  ministers.  I  hope,  however,  most 
seriously  hope,  that  every  thing  has  been  carefully  examined,  and 
that  I  am  not  totally  ruined.  It  is  not  without  much  impatience 
that  I  expect  an  account  of  the  payment  and  investment  of  the 
purchase-money,*  and  am  somewhat  afraid  of  the  high  charges  of 
auctioneers  and  attornies.  The  writings  well  secured  are  delivered 
to  a  trusty  carrier,  who  promises  to  begin  his  Journey  Monday 
next,  the  23rd  instant,  and  to  deposit  them  in  Downing  Street 
about  a  fortnight  afterwards.  *It  was  my  intention  to  have 
added  a  new  edition  of  my  Will :  but  I  have  an  unexpected  call  to 

'  This  was  probably  the  debate  of  May  6,  1791,  when  Burke  declared 
that,  even  if  loss  of  friends  were  the  consequence,  he  would  still,  with  his 
latest  breath,  exclaim,  "  Fly  from  the  French  Constitution  !  "  "  There  is  no 
loss  of  friends,"  said  Fox.  "  Yes,  there  is,"  retorted  Burke.  "  I  know  the 
price  of  my  coaduct !  I  have  indeed  made  a  great  sacrifice :  I  have  done 
my  duty,  though  I  have  lost  my  friend."  Burke's  speech  was  made  on  the 
Quebec  Bill,  and  Lord  Sheffield  moved,  and  was  supported  by  Fox,  that 
dissertations  on  the  French  Constitution  were  not  pertinent  to  the  question 
before  the  House.  Fox's  panegyric  on  the  French  Revolution,  to  which 
Burke's  speech  was  a  reply,  was  delivered  on  the  treaty  between  Russia 
and  the  Porte. 


1791. J  DANGER  OF  RUSSIAN  WAR.  247 

go  to  Geneva  to-morrow  with  the  Severys,  and  must  defer  that 
business  a  few  days,  till  after  my  return.  On  my  return  I  may 
possibly  find  a  letter  from  you,  and  will  write  more  fully  in 
answer :  my  posthumous  work,  contained  in  a  single  sheet,  will 
not  ruin  you  in  postage.  In  the  meanwhile,  let  me  desire  you 
either  never  to  talk  of  Lausanne,  or  to  execute  the  journey  this 
summer  ;  after  the  dispatch  of  public  and  iwivate  business,  there 
can  be  no  real  obstacle  but  in  yourself,  and  if  you  deceive  me  I 
shall  insist  on  the  additional  year's  purchase  for  Newhaven,  which 
I  had  given  up  in  consideration  of  the  visit.  Pray  do  not  go  to 
War  with  Russia :  Mt  is  very  foolish :  I  am  quite  angry  with  Pitt. 
Adieu.*  Pray  inform  Mrs.  G.  of  our  conclusion  and  her  security. 
I  wiite  to  her  this  post  after  a  long  pause.     I  am  a  sad  dog. 


565. 
•  To  his  Slepmotlier. 

Lausanne,  May  18th,  1791. 

Dear  Madam, 

'"'As  much  as  I  am  accustomed  to  my  own  sins,  I  am 
shocked,  really  shocked,  when  I  think  of  my  long  and  most 
inexcusable  silence  ;  nor  do  I  dare  to  compute  how  many  months 
I  have  suffered  to  elapse  without  sending  a  single  line — (Oh 
shame  !   shame  !) — to  the  best  and  dearest  of  my  friends,  who 

'  In  the  spring  of  1791  war  with  Russia  seemed  probable.  Catharine  had 
in  the  preceding  year  concluded  peace  with  Sweden,  and  the  winter  campaign 
of  1790-91  placed  the  Ottoman  Porte  at  her  mercy.  Great  Britain  en- 
deavoured to  secure  favourable  terms  for  Turkey,  and  made  active  prepara- 
tions to  enforce  her  efforts.  The  king's  message  to  the  House  of  Commons 
(March  28,  1791)  asked  for  an  increase  to  the  navy  in  order  to  bring  pressure 
to  bear  on  Russia.  But  Great  Britain  was  without  allies.  Prussia  was 
irresolute,  Sweden  exhausted,  Denmark  unwilling  to  quarrel  with  Russia, 
Austria  intent  on  recovering  the  Austrian  Netherlands.  Her  protest  was, 
however,  not  witiiout  effect.  Catharine  refused  to  recognize  Great  Britain 
as  a  mediator  or  to  recede  from  her  demands.  But  she  made  peace  with 
Turkey  at  Galacz  in  August,  1791,  restoring  all  her  conquests  except 
Otchakov  and  the  surrounding  territory  between  the  Bug  and  the  Dniester. 
The  strong  opposition  to  war  with  Russia  doubtless  influenced  Pitt.  But 
it  is  said  that  the  opinion  of  the  Dutch  Admiral,  Kingsbergen,  that  Sebastopol, 
not  Otchakov,  was  the  real  danger  Xo  Turkey,  finally  changed  his  view. 
The  Duke  of  Leeds  resigned  the  Secretaryship  of  State  on  the  question, 
and  was  succeeded  by  H.  Dundas. 


248  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

indeed  has  been  very  seldom  out  of  my  thoughts.  I  have  some- 
times imagined,  that  if  the  opportunities  of  writing  occurred  less 
frequently,  they  would  be  seized  with  more  diligence ;  but  the 
unfortunate  departure  of  the  post  twice  every  week  encourages 
procrastination,  and  each  short  successive  delay  is  indulged  with- 
out scruple,  till  the  whole  has  swelled  to  a  tremendous  account. 
I  will  try,  alas  !  to  reform  ;  and  although  I  am  afraid  that  writing 
grows  painful  to  you,  I  have  the  confidence  to  solicit  a  s^jeedy 
line,  to  say  that  you  love  and  forgive  me.  After  a  long  experience 
of  the  unfeeling  doubts  and  delays  of  the  law,  you  will  probably 
soon  hear  from  Lord  S.  that  the  Buriton  transaction  is  at  last 
concluded,  and  I  hope  you  will  be  satisfied  with  the  full  and 
firm  security  of  your  annuity.  That  you  may  long  continue  to 
enjoy  it  is  the  first  and  most  sincere  wish  of  my  heart. 

In  the  placid  course  of  our  lives,  at  Lausanne  and  Bath,  we 
have  few  events  to  relate,  and  fewer  changes  to  describe ;  but  I 
indulge  myself  in  the  pleasing  belief  that  we  are  both  as  well  and 
as  happy  as  the  common  order  of  Nature  will  allow  us  to  expect. 
I  should  be  satisfied,  had  I  received  from  time  to  time  some 
indirect,  but  agreeable  information  of  the  general  state  of  your 
health.  For  myself,  I  have  no  complaint,  except  the  Gout ;  and 
though  the  visits  of  my  old  enemy  are  longer,  and  more  en- 
feebhng,  they  are  confined  to  my  feet  and  knees;  the  pain  is 
moderate,  and  my  imprisonment  to  my  chamber,  or  my  chair,  is 
much  alleviated  by  the  daily  kindness  of  my  friends.  I  wish  it 
were  in  my  power  to  give  you  an  adequate  idea  of  the  conveni- 
ency  of  my  house,  and  the  beauty  of  my  garden  :  both  of  which 
I  have  improved  at  a  considerable  expence  since  the  death  of 
poor  Deyverdun.  But  the  loss  of  a  friend  is  indeed  irreparable, 
and  I  sometimes  feel,  that  like  Adam  1  am  alone  in  Paradise. 
Were  I  ten  years  younger,  I  might  possibly  think  of  a  female 
companion ;  but  the  choice  is  difficult,  the  success  doubtful,  the 
engagement  perpetual,  and  at  fifty-four  a  man  should  never  think 
of  altering  the  whole  System  of  his  hfe  and  habits.  The  disposal 
of  Buriton,  and  the  death  of  my  aunt  Hester,  who  has  left  me  a 
small  estate  in  Sussex,  makes  me  very  easy  in  my  worldly  affairs  ; 
my  income  is  equal  to  my  expence,  and  my  expence  is  adequate 
to  my  wishes.  You  may  possibly  have  heard  of  litterary  projects 
which  are  ascribed  to  me  by  the  public  without  my  knowledge  : 
but  it  is  much  more  probable  that  I  have  closed  the  account :  and 


1791.]  LIKE  ADAM  ALONE  IN  PARADISE.  249 

though  I  shall  never  lay  aside  the  pleasing  occupations  of  study, 
you  may  be  assured  that  I  have  no  serious  settled  thoughts  of  a 
new  work.  Next  year  I  shall  meditate,  and  I  trust  shall  execute, 
a  visit  to  England,  in  which  the  Belvidere  is  one  of  my  powerful 
loadstones.  I  often  reflect,  with  a  painful  emotion,  on  the  im- 
perious circumstances  which  have  thrown  us  at  such  a  distance 
from  each  other. 

In  the  moving  picture  of  the  World,  you  cannot  be  indifferent 
to  the  strange  Revolution  which  has  humbled  all  that  was  high, 
and  exalted  all  that  was  low,  in  France.  The  irregular  and  lively 
spirit  of  the  Nation  has  disgraced  their  liberty,  and  instead  of 
building  a  free  constitution,  they  have  only  exchanged  Despotism 
for  Anarchy.  This  town  and  country  are  crowded  with  noble 
Exiles  ;  and  we  sometimes  count  in  an  assembly  a  dozen  princesses 
and  dutchesses.  Burke,  if  I  remember  right,  is  no  favourite  of 
yours  ;  but  there  is  surely  much  eloquence  and  much  sense  in  his 
book.  The  prosperity  of  England  forms  a  proud  contrast  with 
the  disorders  of  France ;  but  I  hope  we  shall  avoid  the  folly  of 
a  Russian  War.  Pitt,  in  this  instance,  seems  too  like  his  father.* 
I  am,  My  Dearest  Madam, 

Ever  most  affectionately  Yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 


566. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  May  31st,  1791. 

*At  length  I  see  a  ray  of  sunshine  breaking  from  a  dark  cloud. 
Your  Epistle  of  the  13th  arrived  this  morning,  the  25th  instant, 
the  day  after  my  return  from  Geneva  ;  it  has  been  communicated 
to  Severy ;  we  now  believe  that  you  intend  a  visit  to  Lc.:isanne 
this  summer,  and  we  hope  that  you  will  execute  that  intention. 
If  you  are  a  man  of  honour,  you  shall  find  me  one  ;  and,  on  the 
day  of  your  arrival  at  Lausanne,  I  will  ratify  my  engagement  of 
visiting  the  British  isle  before  the  end  of  the  year  1792,  excepting 
only  the  fair  and  foul  exception  of  the  Gout.  You  rejoyce  me 
by  proposing  the  addition  of  dear  Louisa  ;  it  was  not  without  a 
bitter  pang  that  I  threw  her  overboard,  to  lighten  the  vessel  and 
secure  the  Voyage  :  I  was  fearful  of  Mrs.  ]\Ioss,  a  second  carriage, 


250  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

and  a  long  train  of  difficulty  and  expence,  which,  might  have 
ended  in  blowing  up  the  whole  scheme.  But  if  you  can  bodkin 
the  sweet  creature  in  the  coach,  she  will  find  an  easy  welcome  at 
Lausanne.  The  first  arrangements  which  I  must  make  before 
your  arrival,  may  be  altered  by  your  own  taste,  on  a  survey  of 
the  premises,  and  you  will  all  be  commodiously  and  pleasantly 
lodged.  You  have  heard  a  great  deal  of  the  beauty  of  my  house, 
garden,  and  situation  ;  but  such  are  their  intrinsic  value,  that, 
unless  I  am  much  deceived,  they  will  bear  the  test  even  of 
exagerated  praise.  From  my  knowledge  of  your  Lordship,  I 
have  always  entertained  some  doubt  how  you  would  get  through 
the  French  society  of  a  Lausanne  winter  :  but  I  am  satisfied  that, 
exclusive  of  friendship,  your  summer  visits  to  the  banks  of  the 
Leman  Lake  will  long  be  remembered  as  one  of  the  most  agree- 
able periods  of  your  life ;  and  that  you  will  scarcely  regret  the 
amusement  of  a  Sussex  Committee  of  Navigation  in  the  dog  days. 
You  ask  for  details  :  what  details  ?  a  map  of  France  and  a  post- 
book  are  easy  and  infallible  guides.  If  the  Ladies  are  not  afraid 
of  the  Ocean,  you  are  not  ignorant  of  the  passage  from  Brighton 
to  Dieppe  :  Paris  will  then  be  in  your  direct  road ;  and  even 
allowing  you  to  look  at  the  Panda;monium,  the  ruins  of  Versailles, 
&c.,  a  fortnight  diligently  employed  will  clear  you  from  Sheffield- 
place  to  Gibbon  Castle.     What  can  I  say  more  ? 

As  httle  have  I  to  say  on  the  subject  of  my  worldly  matters, 
which  seems  now,  Jupiter  be  praised,  to  be  drawing  towards  a 
final  conclusion ;  since,  when  people  part  with  their  money,  they 
are  indeed  serious.  I  do  not  perfectly  understand  the  ratio  of 
the  precise  sum  which  you  have  poured  into  Gosling's  reservoir, 
but  suppose  it  will  be  explained  in  a  general  account ;  *  as  that 
reservoir  is  unproductive,  I  hope  the  Yorkshire  mortgage  will 
soon  be  in  motion.  I  had  not  a  doubt  of  the  Law's  (in  either 
sense  of  the  word)  delaying  to  the  last  moment  the  payment  of 
Hester's  paltry  legacy,  but  I  conceive  that  you  are  in  possession 
of  Newhaven,  and  that  you  have  obtained  for  me  the  year's  or 
at  least  the  nine  months'  rent  to  which  I  must  have  been  entitled 
last  Lady-day.  I  do  not  perfectly  understand  whether  my  share 
of  Hug,  or  to  what  amount,  has  actually  been  paid.  By  this 
time  you  must  have  received  the  Deeds. — Act. 

*You  have  been  very  dutiful  in  sending  me,  what  I  have  always 
desired,  a  cut  Woodfall  on  a  remarkable  debate  ;  a  debate,  indeed, 


1791.]  BURKE  A  RATIONAL  MADMAN.  251 

most  remarka])le  !  Poor  Burke  is  the  most  eloquent  and  rational 
madman  that  I  ever  knew.  I  love  Fox's  feelings,  but  I  detest  the 
political  principles  of  the  man,  and  of  the  party.  Formerly  you 
detested  them  more  strongly,  during  the  American  "War,  than 
myself.  I  am  half  afraid  that  you  are  corrupted  by  your  un- 
fortunate connections.  Should  you  admire  the  National  assembly, 
we  shall  have  many  an  altercation,  for  I  am  as  high  an  Aristocrate 
as  Burke  himself  ;  and  he  has  truly  observed,  that  it  is  impossible 
to  debate  with  temper  on  the  subject  of  that  cursed  Revolution. 
In  my  last  excursion  to  Geneva  I  frequently  saw  the  Neckers, 
who  by  this  time  are  returned  to  their  Summer  residence  of 
Copet.  He  is  much  restored  in  health  and  spirits,  especially 
since  the  publication  of  his  last  book,^  Avhich  has  probably  reached 
England.  Both  parties  who  agree  in  abusing  him,  agree  likewise 
that  he  is  a  man  of  virtue  and  Genius  :  but  I  much  fear  that  the 
purest  intentions  have  been  productive  of  the  most  baneful  con- 
sequences. Our  military  men,  I  mean  the  French,  are  leaving  us 
every  day  for  the  camp  of  the  princes  at  Worms,  and  support 

what  is  called ^  representation.     Their  hopes  are  sanguine  ; 

I  will  not  answer  for  their  being  well  grounded  :  it  is  certain^ 
however,  that  the  emperor  had  an  interview  the  19th  instant  with 
the  Count  of  Artois  at  Mantua  ;  and  the  Aristocrates .  talk  in 
mysterious  language  of  Spain,  Sardinia,  the  empire,  four  or  five 
armies,  «&c.  They  will  doubtless  strike  a  blow  this  summer  : 
May  it  not  recoil  on  their  own  heads  !  Adieu.  Embrace  our 
female  travellers.     A  short  delay.* 

567. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  June  12th,  1791. 

*I  now  begin  to  see  you  all  in  real  motion,  swimming  from 
Brighton  to  Dieppe,  according  to  my  scheme,  and  afterwards 
threading  the  direct  road  which  you  cannot  well  avoid,  to  the 
turbulent  capital  of  the  late  Kingdom  of  France.  I  know  not 
what  more  to  say,  or  what  further  instructions  to  send  ;  they 
would  indeed  be  useless,  as  you  are  travelling  through  a  country 

^  Probably  his  treatise  De  V administration  de  M,  Necher,  par  lui-meme. 
*  The  words  in  the  original  letter  are  torn  out  by  the  seal. 


252  GIBBON'S   CORKESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

which  has  been  sometimes  visited  by  Englishmen  :  only  this  let 
me  say,  that,  in  the  midst  of  Anarchy,  the  roads  were  never  more 
secure  than  at  present.  As  you  will  wish  to  assist  at  the  national 
assembly,  you  will  act  prudently  in  obtaining  from  the  French  in 
London  a  good  recommendation  to  some  leading  member ;  Cazales,^ 
for  instance,  or  the  Abbe  Maury.-  I  soon  expect  from  Elmsly  a 
cargo  of  books ;  but  you  may  bring  me  any  new  pamphlets  of 
exquisite  flavour,  particularly  the  last  works  of  John  Lord  Sheffield, 
which  the  dog  has  always  neglected  to  send.  You  will  have  time 
to  write  once  more,  and  you  must  endeavour,  as  nearly  as  possible, 
to  mark  the  day  of  your  arrival.  You  may  come  either  by  Lyons 
and  Geneva,  by  Dijon  and  Les  Rousses,  or  by  Dole  and  Pontar- 
liere.  The  post  will  fail  you  on  the  edge  of  Switzerland,  and 
must  be  supplied  by  hired  horses.  I  wish  you  to  make  your  last 
day's  journey  easy,  so  as  to  dine  upon  the  road,  and  arrive  by  tea- 
time.*  I  rejoyce  in  the  approaching  conclusion  of  my  affairs, 
though  the  residue  of  the  purchase  money  has  suffered  and  will 
suffer  most  heavy  evacuations. 

*The  pulse  of  the  contre-Revolution  beats  high,  but  I  cannot 
send  you  any  certain  facts.  Adieu.  I  want  to  hear  My  lady 
abusing  me  for  never  writing.  All  the  Severys  are  very  im- 
patient. 

Notwithstanding  the  high  premium,  I  do  not  absolutely  wish 
you  drowned.  Besides  all  other  cares,  I  must  marry  and  pro- 
pagate, which  would  give  me  a  great  deal  of  trouble.* 

'  Jacques  Marie  de  Cazales  (1752-1805),  whom  Madame  Eoland  called, 
for  his  ability,  the  "astonishing"  Cazales,  was  an  eloquent  defender  of  the 
Monarchy.  Suspected  of  conniving  at  the  king's  escape  from  Paris  in  June, 
1791,  he  was  arrested,  and  was  possibly  in  prison  at  the  time  when  Gibbon's 
letter  reached  Lord  SheflBeld.  After  the  capture  of  Louis  XVI.  at  Varennes, 
he  left  France,  and,  as  an  €migr€,  took  part  in  the  campaign  of  1792. 

*  The  Abbe'  Maury  (1746-1817),  one  of  the  supporters  of  the  Church  and 
the  Monarchy  in  the  States-General,  left  France  in  September,  1791,  after 
the  dissolution  of  the  Constituent  Assembly.  Made  by  Napoleon  Archbishop 
of  Paris  (1810-14),  he  was  deprived  of  episcopal  authority  by  the  Pope,  who 
had  previously  given  him  a  cardinal's  hat.  At  the  fall  of  the  Empire  he  was 
summoned  to  Rome,  and  confined  for  some  months  in  the  Castle  of  St. 
Angelo. 


1791,]  LORD  SHEFFIELD  AN  ANTI-DEMOCRAT.  253 


5C8. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Downing  Street,  Tuesday,  14tli  June,  1791. 

Your  letter  of  May  31  was  received  last  Friday.  As  soon  as 
this  letter  is  finished  the  Family  is  to  set  out  for  Sheffield  Place, 
and  from  thence  we  shall  move  as  soon  as  we  can  towards  Lausanne. 
"We  are  pressed  to  pass  through  France  before  the  Confederation 
or  Commemoration  of  the  14th  July,  and  if  possible  we  shall  be 
with  you  before  that  day.  I  have  much  to  do  in  Sussex,  but  I 
shall  hasten.  I  shall  wish  to  pass  one  day  at  Rouen  and  three 
or  four  at  Paris.  I  hope  to  quit  Sheffield  Place  about  the  28th 
instant.  We  expect  the  Borders  of  France  to  be  troubled,  per- 
haps Besan9on  may  not  be  perfectly  tranquil.  Take  care  to  send 
a  few  lines  to  meet  me  at  the  Post  Office,  Paris. 

Louisa  is  delighted  with  your  empressement  to  see  her.  All 
My  Lady's  sagacious  friends  have  assured  her  that  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  to  have  two  men  servants  on  our  Travels.  Etienne  was 
dismissed  six  months  ago  on  account  of  his  indecorous  conduct 
towards  My  Lady's  woman.  A  Swiss  was  hired  in  his  place,  in 
Livery,  another  is  now  hired  out  of  Livery,  both  of  them  of  the 
neighbourhood  of  Lausanne.  One  may  be  dismissed  when  we 
arrive  there,  if  we  can  get  a  place  for  him. 

The  chief  disagremcnt  I  experience  is  a  disappointment  about 
your  £4000  mortgage  in  Yorkshire.  The  owner  sold  the  Estate. 
However  I  insist  on  compensation,  he  having  engaged  the  money. 
I  am  in  treaty  about  a  mortgage  near  my  Yorkshire  Estate  for 
£3000.  I  must  do  the  best  I  can  with  the  other  £1000.  It  will 
be  extravagant  to  buy  into  the  Stocks.  They  never  will  be 
higher,  and  are  likely  to  be  lower.  If  I  could  get  £1000  Sub- 
scriptions in  the  Lewes  Navigation  at  5  pr.  Ct.,  it  would  be  well 
secured  and  well  paid,  but  money  is  too  plentiful ;  I  fear  I  shall 
not  be  able  to  get  it. 

You  exceedingly  mistake  my  Politicks.  I  am  as  great  an 
Anti-Democrat  as  Mr.  Burke,  and  so  are  most  of  the  party ; 
but  you  are  deceived  by  Burke's  speeches.    I  hold  the  French 


254  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

proceedings    in    such    abliorrence   and  dislike    as    an    English 
Politician,  that  I  shall  he  in  danger  of  the  Lantern. 
Eemember  us  with  many  thanks  to  de  Severy. 

Yours  ever, 

S. 

The  Ladies  are  impatient  for  their  voyage.  The  writings  were 
not  received  till  three  days  ago,  and  it  is  impossible  for  the 
greatest  Philosopher  to  have  signed  them  with  a  greater  degree  of 
ignorance,  &c.  Especially  those  relating  to  Buriton  I  must  carry 
to  you  again. 

5G9. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Sheffield  House,  27tli  June,  1791. 

Your  letter  of  the  12th  June  was  graciously  received  two  days 
ago,  and  notwithstanding  the  intelligence  we  received  yesterday 
morning  of  the  Royal  Escape,^  and  notwithstanding  the  probable 
confusion  and  warfare  that  will  take  place  in  France,  the  ardour  of 
the  Ladies  to  go  to  you  is  redoubled.  My  Lady  seems  scared  lest 
prudence  should  induce  me  to  halt  for  intelligence,  and  cannot 
endure  a  delay  even  for  the  packet,  which  will  sail  on  Saturday. 
No,  we  must  set  out  after  dinner  for  Brighton,  and  sail  from  thence 
to-morrow  for  Dieppe.  This  I  should  not  have  undertaken  if  I  had 
not  received  a  letter  from  Pelham  dated  Paris,  two  days  after  the 
elopement,  which  mentioned  that  on  the  second  day  all  was  quiet, 
the  National  Assembly  cool  and  united,  but  that  he  should  take 
care  a  letter  should  meet  me  at  Eouen,  which  would  inform  me 
whether  it  would  be  advisable  to  pass  thro'  Paris.  He  thinks  it 
may  not  be  easy  to  get  from  thence.  It  is  probable  I  shall  be  glad 
to  avoid  Paris,  if  so,  I  may  be  at  Lausanne  in  a  very  short  time, 

*  On  Saturday,  June  25,  news  reached  London  that  Louis  XVI.,  his  wife 
and  children,  had  on  the  previous  Tuesday  escaped  from  Paris.  They 
travelled  with  a  passport  made  out  for  the  Baroness  de  Korfif,  obtained  at  the 
request  of  M.  Simolin,  the  Russian  Ambassador,  who  was  ignorant  of  the  use 
to  which  it  was  to  be  put.  The  king  intended  to  reach  Montmedy,  and  there 
place  himself  under  the  protection  of  the  Marquis  de  Bouille,  who  commanded 
the  army  of  the  Meuse  and  Moselle.  At  Ste.  Menehould  the  fugitives  were 
recognized  by  the  Postmaster  Drouet,  arrested  at  Varennes,  and  brought 
back  to  Paris. 


1791.]  FLIGHT  AND  ARREST  OF  LOUIS  XYI.  255 

especially  if  I  find  a  tolerable  road  from  Rouen  to  Fontaineblcau. 
From  thence  I  have  travelled  to  Dijon  and  Besan^on  to  Lausanne. 
I  think  there  is  most  danger  of  dilliculty  in  passing  thro'  a 
considerable  garrison  such  as  Besancon.  If  we  can  approach  you 
we  shall  wish  to  arrive  in  the  evening  at  the  time  you  mention. 

Finally,  such  an  undertaking  just  at  this  moment  will  not  allow 
us  to  be  deemed  by  our  acquaintance  rompos  tnentis,  but  we  are 
going  to  you  and  may  arrive  sooner  than  this  letter.  I  shall 
write  from  Rouen  however,  where  I  shall  stop  one  day  at  least. 

Yours  ever, 

S. 

Alas !  just  after  I  had  finished  I  heard  the  King  and  Queen 
are  captives.  I  must  go  to  Rouen  before  I  determine,  but  I  incline 
to  a  rapid  pass  thro'  France. 


570. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  July  1st,  1791. 

*In  obedience  to  your  orders,  I  direct  a  flying  shot  to  Paris, 
though  I  have  not  any  thing  particular  to  add,  excepting  that  our 
impatience  is  increased  in  the  inverse  ratio  of  time  and  space.  Yet 
I  almost  doubt  whether  you  have  passed  the  sea.  The  news  of  the 
King  of  France's  escape  must  have  reached  you  before  the  28th, 
the  day  of  your  departure,  and  the  prospect  of  strange  unknown 
disorder  may  well  have  suspended  your  firmest  resolves.  The 
Royal  animal  is  again  caught,  and  all  may  probably  be  quiet.  I 
was  just  going  to  exhort  you  to  pass  through  Brussels  and  the  con- 
fines of  Germany  ;  a  fair  Irishism,  since  if  you  read  this,  you  are 
already  at  Paris.  The  only  reasonable  advice  which  now  remains, 
is  to  obtain,  by  means  of  Lord  Gower,'  a  sufficiency,  or  even  super- 
fluity, of  forcible  passports,  such  as  leave  no  room  for  cavil  on  a 
jealous  frontier.  The  frequent  intercourse  with  Paris  has  proved 
that  the  best  and  shortest  road,  instead  of  Besan9on,  is  by  Dijon, 
Dole,  Les  Rousses,  and  Nyon.*  As  my  larder  cannot  always  be 
furnished  for  the  doubtful  day  of  your  arrival,  I  must  desire  that 
you  would  make  your  first  appearance,  not  at  dinner  time,  but  at 

*  The  ambassador  at  Paris. 


256  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

the  hour  of  tea  ;  you  may  dine  at  Eolle  or  Morges.  *Adieu.  I 
warmly  embrace  the  ladies.  It  would  be  idle  now  to  talk  of 
business.* 

571. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Paris,  Tuesday,  5th  July,  1791. 

Neither  the  Royal  Flight  or  Capture  prevented  or  even  inter- 
rupted for  a  day  our  travels  to  the  Historian.  "We  passed  two 
nights  at  sea,  and  we  have  passed  two  nights  at  the  Castle  of 
Navarre  with  the  Duke  of  Bouillon,  near  Evreux,  much  more  to 
our  satisfaction.  Nothing  could  be  more  handsome  than  our 
reception  there.  I  was  glad  of  the  opportunity  of  shewing  to  the 
Ladies,  the  style  of  living  of  one  of  the  first  men  in  France,  and 
at  one  of  the  finest  places.  I  came  here  last  night.  I  have 
already  had  an  opportunity  of  good  intelligence.  Matters  of  the 
highest  consequence  are  this  moment  in  agitation.^  They  are 
determined  to  get  rid  of  the  King,  but  how,  is  not  so  easy  a 
business.  Many  of  his  enemies  are  sorry  he  was  retaken,  because 
they  know  not  what  to  do  with  him  (a  Council  will  be  appointed). 
I  believe  they  would  be  glad  to  let  him  go,  if  they  did  not  fear 
the  Parisian  mobility.  The  Judges  agree  that  the  Gardes  de  Corps,^ 
who  acted  as  couriers,  cannot  be  tried.  They  will  be  suffered  to 
depart  whenever  it  will  be  safe.  As  to  the  Queen,  when  I  said 
I  was  surprised  they  did  not  send  her  home  (that  is  to  the  Pais 
Autrichiennes)  to  avoid  mischief  to  her  Person,  and  also  to  avert 
a  disagreeable  demand,  I  was  told  there  is  no  doubt  that  she  will 
be  allowed  to  go  if  she  pleases.     De  Bouille^  has  emitted  an 

'  On  June  26,  1791,  a  plan  was  presented  to  the  National  Assembly  for 
the  prosecution  of  the  king  and  of  those  who  assisted  him  in  his  escape. 
After  a  warm  debate,  commissioners  were  nominated  to  inquire  into  the 
events  of  June  20-21,  and  three  commissioners  were  separately  appointed 
to  take  the  signed  declarations  of  the  king  and  queen.  The  proposal  to 
distinguish  the  case  of  the  king  and  queen  from  that  of  inferior  persons 
was  unsuccessfully  opposed  by  Robespierre. 

"^  The  three  Gardes  du  Corps,  brought  back  on  the  top  of  the  royal 
carriage,  bound  with  ropes,  were  MM.  de  Valory,  de  Moustier,  and  de 
Maiden.     The  two  former  published  accounts  of  the  flight  to  Varennes. 

*  Fran9ois  Claude  Aymour,  Marquis  de  Bouille  (1739-1800),  born  at  tlic 
Chateau  de  Cluzel  in  Auvergno,  died  at  London  in  1800.  He  had  dis- 
tinguished himself  bath  in  the  Seven  Years'  War  and  in  the  American  War 


1791.]  THE  CRISIS  IX  TARIS.  257 

invitation  to  Officers  and  Soldiers  to  join  him.  His  letter  to  the 
National  Assembly  might  have  been  well  enough  for  a  Captain  of 
Grenadiers,  but  it  does  not  smell  of  the  grand  Politician.  I 
understand  that  scarce  a  General  Officer  remains  with  the  Army 

on  the  Austrian  Border  towards  ,  and  that  numbers,  even 

whole  corps  of  officers,  have  deserted,  but  this  I  know  not  with  any 
precision.  I  think  we  may  go  from  hence  in  4  or  5  days.  Matters 
are  coming  to  a  Crisis — therefore  you  may  be  sure  I  shall  not  stay 
long  lest  we  should  be  stopped  and  not  suffered  to  go  from  this  city, 
but  I  expect  an  introduction  to  Cazales,  La  Fayette,  and  some  others. 

Lausanne  has  the  honour  of  containing  Lady  Webster  ^  before 
this  time.  People  arc  apt  to  spoil  her.  I  desire  you  will  not, 
because  it  gives  me  a  great  deal  of  trouble  to  set  her  right  after- 
wards. Milady  writes  to  her.  She  and  her  daughters  are  well 
and  entertained.     We  are  just  come  from  the  Comedie  Francoise. 

Yours  ever, 

S. 

I  shall  not  write  again  before  our  departure. 

572. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  GMon. 

Paris,  July  8th,  1791. 

The  system  of  getting  rid  of  the  King  will  not  do.  The 
night  before  last  the  principal  men  of  the  Committees,  the  Chiefs 

of  Independence.  In  1790  he  became  governor  of  the  provmces  of  les  Trois 
Eveche's,  Alsace,  Lorraine,  and  Tranche  Comte,  and  commander-in-chief  of 
the  army  of  the  Meuse,  Sarre-et-Moselle,  with  his  head-quarters  at  Mefz. 
His  letter  to  the  National  Assembly  was  written,  as  he  states,  to  divert  the 
wrath  of  the  Assembly  from  the  king  to  himself.  In  it  he  assumed  the 
whole  responsibility  for  the  affair.  His  letter,  says  M.  Feuillet  de  Conches 
{Louis  XVL,  Marie  Antoinette  et  Madame  Elisaheth,  vol.  iv.  pp.  469-471), 
produced  a  deep  impression  throughout  Europe.  Three  autograph  letters, 
addressed  by  Louis  XVL,  and  the  Kings  of  Sweden  and  Prussia,  to  the 
marquis,  are  there  quoted.  After  the  arrest  of  Louis  XVI.  at  Varennes  he 
fled  to  Coblentz,  summoning  officers  and  men  to  join  him.  He  served  in 
the  army  of  the  Prince  of  Conde  in  1791,  and  in  that  of  the  Duke  of  York 
in  1793.  He  afterwards  retired  to  England,  where  his  M€inoires  sur  la 
R^mlution  were  published  in  1797. 

•  Elizabeth  Vassall,  a  West  Indian  heiress,  married,  May  27,  1786,  Sir 
Godfrey  Webster,  Bart.,  of  Battle  Abbey,  Sussex.  She  was  divorced  from 
her  husband  on  July  3,  1797,  and,  three  days  afterwards,  married  the  third 
Lord  Holland. 

VOL.  II.  S 


258  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

of  the  National  Assembly,  about  100  in  number,  met,  and  after  a 
considerable  debate,  they  resolved  that  the  Constitution  should  be 
maintained,  and  that  the  person  of  the  King  is  inviolable.  Only 
two  of  them,  Messrs.  Dumont  and  Petier,  were  of  a  different 
opinion,  and  they  argued  for  a  tryal.  La  Clos,^  the  friend  of  the 
Duke  of  Orleans,  the  night  preceding  the  Jacobins,  vigorously 
insisted  on  a  Tyral  and  a  Eegency,  but  it  is  known  that  a  great 
majority  of  the  National  Assembly  wish  to  restore  the  King  and 
to  put  him  in  the  situation  he  held  before  his  flight,  and  to  give 
him  a  Council.  The  Queen  not  being  a  part  of  the  Constitution, 
they  do  not  intend  to  take  any  notice  of  her  ;  much  management 
is  necessary  to  keep  the  people  quiet,  and  the  Chiefs  dare  not  as 
yet  bring  forward  moderate  measures.  The  National  Guard  wish 
to  get  rid  of  the  King.  The  resolution  I  mention  in  the  begin- 
ning of  this  letter  is  intended  to  be  kept  secret  as  much  as  pos- 
sible for  the  present.  The  measure  will  be  carried  with  some 
difficulty.  I  have  scarce  a  moment.  On  Monday  we  attend  the 
Apotheosis  of  Voltaire."  On  Tuesday  next  we  go  to  the  National 
Assembly  for  the  last  time  (having  the  President's  Box),  and  on 
Wednesday  we  talk  of  setting  out  for  La  Suisse,  but  I  must  stop 
a  day  or  two  at  Dijon  and  one  or  two  perhaps  at  Besangon.  We 
suppose  the  Websters  lost,  because  we  have  not  heard  from  them. 

Yours, 

S. 

573. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihhon. 

Paris,  13th  July,  1791. 

We  are  going  at  8  o'clock  this  morning  to  the  Assembly,  lest 
we  should  be  too  late  for  places  to  hear  the  report  and  debate 
on  the  King's  Flight.^    It  is  not  likely  to  finish  in  one  day,  but 

*  Francois  Choderlos  de  Laclos  (1741-1803),  novelist,  poet,  and  soldier, 
was  at  this  time  editor  of  the  Journal  des  amis  de  la  Constitution.  He  helped 
Brissot  to  draw  up  the  petition  for  the  deposition  of  Louis  XVI.,  July  17, 1791. 

-  Voltaire  died  at  Paris  in  May,  1778.  His  body,  lest  burial  should  be 
refused,  was  carried  to  the  Abbey  of  Scellieres.  Thence  the  remains  were 
brought,  Sunday,  July  10,  1791,  to  the  ruins  of  the  Bastille,  and  placed  the 
next  day  in  the  Pantheon. 

'  On  Wednesday,  July  13, 1791,  the  report  of  the  seven  committees  on 
the  affairs  of  the  king  was  read  before  the  National  Assembly,  detailing  the 


1791.]  LOED  SHEFFIELD  AT  THE  JACOBINS.  259 

we  are  not  disposed  to  stay  more  than  2  or  3  days  longer  on 
any  account.  It  will  be  proper  to  remain  here  a  day  or  two  just 
to  see  whether  they  really  will  cut  one  another's  throats.  I  do  not 
expect  it.  It  does  not  seem  to  be  their  genius  to  do  more  than 
Fishwomcn,  to  scratch  and  tear  one  or  two  to  pieces  in  a  cattish 
fury.  Since  my  last  the  Democratic  enrage  seems  to  have  gained 
ground.  I  have  been  placed  high  on  a  chair  next  the  President 
at  the  Jacobins,  having  been  introduced  by  Noailles  as  a  good 
English  Patriot  amidst  much  applaudissement.  Brissot  de  "War- 
ville  ^  made  (as  on  ii'Ca  dit)  the  greatest  speech  that  ever  was  heard. 
It  was  well  calculated  to  inflame  Frenchmen,  but  he  forgot  to  use 
any  argument,  and  utterly  omitted  to  shew  that  the  King  had 
committed  any  crime  against  the  Law,  and  finished  by  moving 
that  the  King  should  be  tried.  The  word  enrage  does  not  half 
describe  a  French  Democrate.  The  modern  men  think  the  speech 
has  made  a  great  impression,  and  think  matters  are  not  in  so  good 
train  for  the  King  as  they  were.  I  have  not  a  moment  to  say 
more  than  that  I  have  seen  men  and  things  to  great  advantages, 
and  I  shall  write  again. 

Yours, 

S. 

574. 
Th&  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd  to  Edward  Gibhon. 

Berne,  Oct.  7th,  1791. 

The  truth  is,  that  I  attempted  to  write  to  you,  the  day  we 
arrived  here,  &  found  myself  unequal  to  a  longer  account  of 
things,  than  just  to  say — we  are  eighteen  Leagues  from  Lausanne, 
&  I  have  made  the  family  lift  up  their  hands  &  eyes  in  astonish- 
ment, by  wishing  to  walk  back  that  distance.  I  ought  to  express 
my  Gratitude  for  all  the  kindness  and  attentions  we  have  met 

circumstances  of  the  king's  escape,  and  stating  the  manner  in  which,  by  the 
laws  of  the  Constitution,  the  Assembly  should  conduct  itself  towards  the  king. 
Practically,  the  report  was  in  favour  of  the  inviolability  of  the  king's 
person.  In  this  sense  it  was  adopted  on  July  15,  1791,  and  against  it  was 
held  the  meeting  of  the  Champs  de  Mars  on  July  17. 

*  J.  Pierre  Brissot  (cZe  WarviUe)  (1754-93)  was  at  this  time  a  supporter 
of  the  Due  d'Orle'ans.  He  afterwards  led  the  Erissolins  against  the  Montag- 
nards,  and  was  guillotined  with  the  Girondists  in  October,  1793. 


260  GIBBON'S  CORRESrONDENCE.  [1791. 

with,  during  our  stay  in  Switzerland,  &  if  I  was  less  sensible  of 
it,  I  could  compose  a  fine  speech — but  I  can  only  say,  I  can  feel, 
&  I  hope  you  will  never  find  me  ungrateful.  Tuesday  we  slept 
at  Avenches  &  arrived  here  at  two  o'clock  on  Wednesday.  If 
you  wish  to  know  how  we  amused  ourselves  on  the  Road,  I 
will  tell  you,  by  Meditation  &  Silence.  If  you  wish  to  know 
what  was  the  Subject  of  our  Meditations  I  will  answer  for 
myself — Lausanne.  Indeed,  my  Thoughts  have  not  quitted  that 
place,  for  five  minutes,  &  I  begin  to  wonder,  whether  I  shall 
ever  think  of  any  thing  else.  Our  horse,  that  had  one  Wooden 
&  one  broken  Leg,  fell  down,  &  rather  damaged  a  third  Leg 
— so  that,  as  Papa  thought  if  any  accident  should  happen  to 
the  fourth,  we  might  find  some  difficulty  in  proceeding  on  our 
journey,  &  being  rather  indignant  at  their  slow  method  of 
moving,  he  has  dismissed  them,  rather  too  precipitately,  as  we 
are  now  uncertain  whether  we  shall  leave  this  Town  to-morrow 
or  a  fortnight  hence.     No  horses  to  be  had  at  present. 

Yesterday  we  went  to  the  Lac  de  Thun — the  day  was  very 
fine,  &  we  crossed  the  Lake  to  Mr.  Fischer's  house,  where  we 
found  his  Lady  and  Mother.  We  stopped  at  Mr,  de  Mulhinen's 
house  in  our  return — &  saw  Mad^  de  Mulhinen,  who  is  a  very 
pleasing  Woman.  Papa  was  so  much  pleased  with  the  Lake  that 
he  lamented  very  much  that  he  had  not  persuaded  you  &  Severy 
to  come  with  us  there  &  stay  two  or  three  days.  Perhaps  you 
might  have  been  inexorable,  but  I  wish  the  other  part  of  the 
scheme  had  been  thought  of  a  little  sooner.  I  liked  the  expedi- 
tion upon  the  lake  very  well,  but  it  was  not  the  Lake  of  Geneva, 
nor  was  the  Boat  St.  J.  Legard's ;  &  yet,  as  there  was  a  Lake 
&  a  Boat,  there  was  resemblance  enough,  for  me  to  make  com- 
parisons, to  the  disadvantage  of  the  present  time.  Mr.  Coxe 
gave  Papa  a  Letter  to  Mr.  Wyttenbach ;  he  has  been  here,  & 
walked  about  the  Town  with  us  on  Wednesday  evening,  &  has 
made  me  very  happy  by  promising  to  send  me  a  Collection  of 
Alpine  Plants.  He  is  to  take  us  this  morning  to  shew  us  the 
World.  Papa  is  gone  with  Mr.  Fischer  on  horseback  to  see 
Farms.  After  dinner  we  are  to  go  to  the  library,  &  to-morrow, 
if  we  can  get  horses,  we  shall  go  to  Bienne.  Mon''.  Fredennick 
was  here  this  morning,  &  every  body  seems  to  try  who  shall 
pay  most  attention.  I  wish  they  would  try  &  be  disagreeable, 
to  make  me  rejoice  at  being  on  my  return  to  England.    Mon"". 


1791.]  SAFE  IX  THE  LAND  OF  LIBERTY.  261 

Wyttcnbacli  is  come  &  prevents  me  adding  any  more,  than  to 
assure  you  that  I  am  your  ever  obliged  &  affcc. 

M.   T.   HOLROYD. 


575. 
The  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd  to  Edward  Gihhon. 

Strasbourgh,  Thursday,  Oct.  13tb,  '91. 

I  felt  a  strong  inclination  to  write  from  Basle,  but  as  you 
said,  Berne  or  Basle  &,  not  Berne  &  Basle,  I  was  afraid  of  being 
troublesome.  However  I  take  the  first  moment  of  my  arrival  at 
the  next  station  from  whence  you  desired  to  hear  from  me,  to  tell 
you  we  are  safe  in  the  Land  of  Liberty,  where  the  People  may 
sing  Ga  ira  all  day  &  all  night,  if  they  like  it.  Friday,  the  day 
I  wrote  from  Berne,  we  went  to  Wyttenbach's  house,  to  see  his 
curiosities — &  he  has  made  me  Wild  again  about  Botany,  by 
giving  me  a  Collection  of  Alpine  Plants — so  that  now,  instead  of 
admiring  Nature  in  general,  I  have  no  eyes  but  for  Weeds,  &  I 
have  made  a  considerable  Collection  in  my  Journey  from  Lausanne 
here.  The  Advoyer  came  before  dinner,  &  from  his  suit  of  Black 
Powdered  Wig  &  Gold  headed  cane,  I  began  to  be  afraid  I  was 
ill,  &  that  the  Physician  was  come  to  give  his  Opinion.  Mr. 
Fischer  dined  with  us,  Mr.  Fredennick  came  after  dinner,  and 
they  went  with  us  to  the  Library  &  walked  upon  the  ramparts. 
In  a  part  of  the  Ditch  we  saw  two  of  the  Sovereign  Lords  of  the 
Pays  de  Vaud.  Their  Excellencies  were  very  quiet  and  rather 
Eheumatic,  but  there  were  two  young  ones  very  frisky  and 
playful. 

Saturday.  We  were  rather  unfortunate  in  a  very  rainy  Day 
— &  in  one  of  the  Springs  of  the  Carriage  breaking  near  Arberg, 
which  delayed  us  some  time.  If  it  had  been  a  fine  day,  we 
should  have  been  very  disagreeable,  but  as  it  was  impossible  to 
go  to  the  Island  of  St.  Pierre  ^  that  day,  we  made  up  our  minds 
very  tolerably.  Sunday.  The  Weather  was  very  favorable,  & 
we  went  upon  the  Island,  wrote  our  names  in  Eousseau's  Bed 
chamber,  returned  to  Bienne  to  dinner,  &  went  to  Moutier  the 
same  day.     Mama  had  an  opportunity  of  shewing  her  heroism — 

'  On  the  Island  of  St.  Pierre,  in  the  Lake  of  Bienne,  J.  J.  Eousaeau  lived 
in  1765. 


262  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

for  the  last  three  Leagues  we  performed  by  moonlight,  &  Coxe 
describes  the  Road  as  so  narrow,  that  one  Wheel  rubs  against 
the  Rocks  &  the  other  hangs  over  the  Precipice— though  this 
description  is  poetical,  yet  there  is  some  foundation  for  it.  We 
regretted  passing  thro'  such  picturesque  scenes  in  the  dark,  but 
the  next  day  the  Country  we  passed  thro'  from  Moutier  to  Basle 
was  exactly  the  same.  I  thought  after  the  Tour  to  the  Glaciers, 
that  I  should  think  nothing  equal  to  that  part  of  the  Worlds 
but  the  Valley  of  Munster  pleased  me  more  than  anything  I  have 
seen.  Tuesday,  we  saw  the  Gardens  of  Arlesheim,  the  Library 
&  the  dance  of  death.  Mr.  Ochs  was  the  only  one  of  Mr. 
Levade's  friends  who  was  at  Basle— the  others  were  both  in 
France.  The  higgled tj-pggledy  Party  came  to  Basle  on  Tuesday 
&  Avere  very  much  in  our  way  on  the  Road.  Papa  determined 
to  go  to  Strasbourgh  on  the  french  side  of  the  River,  as  the 
Horses  on  the  other  side  are  quite  knocked  up  by  transporting 
Aristocrates  to  Coblentz.  The  Craven  family  with  their  Guardians, 
Lord  Molyneux  and  Mr.  Nott,  took  all  the  horses  at  the  first 
Post,  &  tho'  they  left  Basle  two  hours  before  us,  when  we  got 
to  St.  Louis  we  were  obliged  to  wait  an  hour  and  a  half,  for  the 
return  of  the  horses— during  which  time  we  amused  ourselves  by 
walking  to  Huningue — which  I  was  very  glad  of,  as  it  gave  me 
a  better  Idea  of  Scarps  &  Counter-Scarps,  Ravelines  &  Bastions, 
than  I  should  have  had  without  it. 

This  day's  journey  was  rather  long.  We  left  Basle  at  eight 
o'clock  &  we  arrived  at  Krafft,  where  we  slept,  at  \  past  eleven 
— quite  in  despair  at  the  dirt  of  the  French  Inns ;  having  met 
with  such  excellent  ones  in  Switzerland,  we  had  quite  forgot 
what  a  bad  Inn  was.  We  are  just  arrived  here  to  breakfast, 
&  expect  to  meet  with  some  information  as  to  the  superiority 
of  Navigation  over  Land  carriage.  Papa  Avas  so  much  out  of 
humour  with  the  delay,  occasioned  by  want  of  horses  upon  the 
road  yesterday,  that  he  is  very  much  inclined  to  take  a  Boat 
here.  The  people  at  Lausanne,  judging  I  suppose  by  themselves, 
assured  me  I  should  forget  that  place  by  the  time  I  got  to 
Basle.  I  am  at  Strasburgh,  which  is  still  farther  ;  and  I  can 
say  from  Experience,  Avhich  is  the  only  thing  that  ever  convinces 
me,  that  notwithstanding  the  variety  of  Scenes  that  I  have 
passed  through,  &  the  amusement  I  have  found  on  the  road, 
I  still  regret  the  Terrace  &  the  Pavillion.    I  do  not  know  what 


1791.]  STRANGE  CHARM  IN  SWITZERLAND.  263 

strange  Charm  there  is  in  Switzerland  that  makes  everybody 
desirous  of  returning  there ;  you  know  I  did  not  go  there  with 
any  prejudice  in  its  favor.  As  to  Mama,  she  owes  it  such  a  Spite 
for  fascinating  you,  that  she  will  never  do  it  common  Justice, 
till  the  Democrates  have  obliged  you  to  be  content  with  our 
little  Island ;  then  perhaps  her  obligations  to  them  will  change 
her  sentiments. 

Indeed  I  am  ashamed  of  myself,  to  have  taken  up  so  much 
of  your  time.  You  will,  I  am  afraid,  repent  of  our  Engagement,, 
&  think  that  reading  my  Letters  is  even  more  tremendous  than 
answering  them.  I  live  in  hopes,  that  we  shall  hear  something 
of,  or  from,  you  at  Coblentz.  Eemember  us  all,  but  me  m 
particular,  to  every  one  of  the  Severy  family.  Et  dite  a  met 
chere  Angletiiie  que  je  imise,  lien  souvent  cCelle  &  du  dernier  jour 
que  nous  avons  ^^^ssees  ensemble.  I  dread  exposing  even  that 
short  sentence  to  your  criticizing  eye,  but  I  wish  to  shew  her 
that,  in  promising  to  write  to  her,  I  have  undertaken  what  I  am 
very  unequal  to  perform,  in  order  to  keep  up  some  remembrance 
of  me.  I  cannot  bear  the  thoughts  of  being  forgot  by  those  I 
love.    Mama  desires  to  be  most  affectionately  remembered  to  you.. 

Believe  me. 

Ever  sincerely  &  affec''  yours, 

Maria  T.  Holroyd. 

I  just  find  I  am  too  late  for  the  Post  to-day,  &  that  my 
Letter  must  wait  till  Saturday.  To-morrow  we  stay  here.  Papa 
is  happy  in  the  Idea  of  seeing  the  Troops  exercise. 


576. 
The  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd  to  Edward  Gihlon. 

Coblentz,  Oct.  21st,  1791. 

Our  Adventures  since  I  wrote  from  Strasbourgh  have  been  very 
numerous,  &  if  every  body  had  been  equally  disposed  with  my- 
self to  be  entertained  with  them,  they  would  have  lost  much  of 
their  unpleasant  circumstances.  Papa  had  determined  to  go  from 
Strasburgh  to  Manheim  by  Rastadt ;  but  the  Inn  keeper  advised 
us  to  go  on  the  other  side  of  the  Rhine,  as  we  should  find  the 
Inns  all  full  in  Germany  &  the  Post  horses  very  bad.    The  Eain 


264  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

was  incessant  all  day  &  had  continued  for  two  days  before.  "We 
found  the  Roads  very  bad  &  lost  our  way  in  a  large  forest ; 
quite  dark  ;  amidst  many  ejaculations  from  Mama.  When  we  at 
last  arrived  at  Girmenheim,  where  we  were  to  sleep,  we  found  the 
Inn  quite  full.  A  Commission  was  there  from  Manheim  to  keep 
the  Rhine  in  order,  who  has  heard  so  much  lately  of  Liberty  on 
both  sides,  that  he  had  a  mind  to  make  the  experiment,  &  has 
strayed  over  the  neighbouring  meadows,  unmindful  of  the 
excellent  Caution  given  to  a  Brother  River — "  Thames,  ever  while 
you  live,  keep  between  your  banks."  We  were  put  into  a  small 
room,  where  a  Company  had  just  finished  supper.  Travellers  are 
not  often,  I  imagine,  so  unfortunate  as  to  go  that  road,  if  I  may 
judge  from  the  astonishment  and,  I  hope,  admiration  our  Ap- 
pearance caused.  The  Doors  were  opened  and  the  Room  was 
lined  with  Spectators,  who  gazed  at  us  in  silence  for  near  a  quarter 
of  an  hour — more  to  my  amusement  than  Mama's.  There  was 
only  one  Room  where  we  could  sleep — &  we  all  arranged  our- 
selves in  three  Beds,  after  having  quieted  some  delicate  scruples  of 
Papa's,  who  proposed  sleeping  in  the  Coach — however  by  putting 
out  the  Candles  nobody  found  it  necessary  to  blush. 

We  left  this  charming  place  very  early,  breakfasted  at  Spire 
and  arrived  at  Manheim  early  enough  to  see  all  the  Lyons  before 
dinner.  I  was  much  entertained  with  the  Gallery  of  Pictures  in 
the  Elector's  Palace.  It  was  much  superior  to  anything  I  had 
seen.  The  Library  is  veiy  handsome.  Papa  went  to  the  Play  in 
the  evening  &  made  an  acquaintance  there,  who  he  brought  home 
with  him,  &  talked  Commerce  and  Agriculture,  till  near  one  in 
the  morning.  The  next  day  we  went  to  Mayence,  &  the  day  after 
saw  the  Castle,  the  Provost's  house,  the  Cathedral,  &c.,  and  left 
Mayence  at  two  o'clock  in  a  very  tolerable  Boat.  But  the  Wind 
was  quite  contrary,  &  it  was  very  late  when  we  arrived  at 
Bingen.  Mama  did  not  take  a  fancy  to  Navigation  in  the  least. 
For  my  part  I  enjoyed  it  very  much,  as  the  Banks  of  the  Rhine, 
particularly  from  Bingen  to  Coblentz,  are  very  picturesque.  The 
great  number  of  Castles  made  me  imagine  myself  in  the  Age  of 
Chivalry,  &  I  almost  persuaded  myself  I  was  a  distressed  Damsel 
carried  away  against  my  Will.  The  next  thing,  of  course,  was 
to  expect  a  brave  Knight  to  set  me  free,  but  as  none  made  their 
appearance,  I  was  obliged  to  quit  my  romantic  Ideas,  &  my 
Castles  in  the  Air,  of  which  I  had  plenty,  as  well  in  my  head,  as 


1791.]  COBLENTZ  AND  WHITE  COCKADES.  265 

around  me.  In  plain  English,  I  was  much  pleased  with  the  day's 
journey,  &  Mama  was  pretty  well  reconciled  to  seeing  Water  all 
round  her,  which  was  at  first  a  great  grievance. 

Our  famous  Adventures  begin  here.  "We  arrived  at  Coblentz  ^ 
at  five  o'clock  last  Wednesday,  &  found  every  Inn  in  the  Town  full 
of  Panaches  blancs.  After  staying  three  hours  in  the  Boat,  with 
difficulty  Papa  found  one  Eoom,  with  one  Bed,  without  Curtains 
&  no  other  furniture  of  any  kind  in  it.  We  preferred  this  to  sleep- 
ing in  the  Boat,  the  only  alternative,  &  accordingly  we  females 
slept  on  Mattresses  upon  the  ground.  As  there  were  no  curtains 
it  was  impossible  to  admit  Papa  of  the  Party,  &  he  remained  all 
Night  in  the  Boat.  The  Account  that  was  brought  us  of  the 
Room  we  were  to  sleep  in,  was  that  between  forty  and  fifty  Officers 
were  in  two  Rooms  at  each  end  of  ours,  which  opened  with  Fold- 
ing Doors.  Upon  a  nearer  enquiry,  the  number  w'as  reduced 
between  10  &  20 — but  they  are  tolerably  quiet,  considering  they 
are  Frenchmen.  Yesterday  was  passed  enquiring  for  Lodgings,  & 
by  the  help  of  the  Due  de  Guiche,-  the  Woman  of  the  house  was 
prevailed  upon  to  give  us  three  Garrets,  perfectly  unfurnished — 
but  this  we  considered  as  charming  accommodation  compared  to 
the  higgled//  piggleihj  Style  we  had  been  accustomed  to — but  the 
Ground  is  still  our  Bed. 

Papa  has  found  out  a  great  deal  of  amusement  for  himself. 
He  was  presented  yesterday  to  the  Elector,^  Monsieur,*  Madame, 
the  Comte  d'Artois,  the  P.  of  Conde  and  his  Son ;  to-day  he 
dined  at  a  very  large  dinner  at  the  Prince  of  Nassau's^ — &  is 

'  After  the  meeting  of  the  Emperor  of  Austria  and  the  King  of  Prussia 
at  Pilnitz,  Coblentz  became  the  rallying-point  of  the  €inigr€s — "a  small 
extra-national  Versailles :  a  Versailles  in  partibus." 

'  The  family  of  Guiche  were  descended  from  la  helle  Corisande,  who,  left 
a  widow  at  twenty-six  by  the  death  of  her  husband,  the  Comte  de  Guiche, 
became  the  mistress  of  Henry  IV.,  then  only  King  of  Navarre.  The  Due  de 
Guiche  (afterwards  Due  de  Grammont)  married,  in  1779,  a  daughter  of  the 
Duchesse  de  Poliguac,  and  to  her  interest  he  owed  his  place  as  captain  of 
the  Villeroy  Company  of  the  Gardes  du  Corps.  He  was  also  colonel  of 
the  Dragons  de  la  Beine.  The  duke  is  a  "  good-natured  young  man  "  (^Lord 
Auckland's  Journal  and  Correspondence,  vol.  i.  p.  412). 

*  Charles  Theodore,  Elector  of  Bavaria  and  of  the  Palatinate. 

*  Monsieur,  the  title  given  to  the  eldest  brother  of  the  reigning  King  of 
France,  was  the  Comte  de  Provence,  afterwards  Louis  XVIII.  (1755-1824). 
Madame,  his  wife,  was  Maria  Josephine  Louisa,  daughter  of  Victor  Amadeua 
III.  of  Sardinia.     They  escaped  from  Paris  on  the  same  night  as  Louis  XVI. 

^  The  Prince  of  Nassau-Siegen  sailed  round  the  world  with  Bougainville 


266  GIBBON'S   CORKESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

now  at  the  Play  in  Mad*,  de  Nassau's  Box,  who  was  very  desirous 
of  our  Company,  but  Mama  is  not  fond  of  violent  measures. 
The  Comte  de  Eomanzov  ^  is  here,  Ambassador  to  the  Princes  from 
the  Empress  Cat.  The  Bishop  of  Arras  ^  is  not  here ;  but  the 
Due  de  Guiche  is  every  thing  that  is  delightful,  &  Papa  has 
not  been  at  a  loss  for  the  Bishop.  Our  amusements  may  be 
mentioned  in  very  few  words.  We  have  seen  the  citadel.  We 
go  from  here  early  to-morrow  morning — in  our  Boat.  The 
Weather  is  very  unfavorable  to  us.  Only  that  you  might  justly 
make  the  Observation,  "If  you  are  sensible  of  your  fault, 
why  do  you  continue  to  offend  ? "  I  would  apologize  for  the 
length  of  my  Letter.  But  while  you  allow  me  to  write  to  you,  I 
do  not  think  I  have  quite  left  Lausanne — &  I  never  know  how  to 
leave  off.    Distribute  our  Love  and  comp*^  properly. 

Believe  me 

Ever  affec.  yours, 

Maria  T.  Holroyd. 
I  forgot  to  say  we  found  our  Letters  here.  Mama  desires  her 
Love  to  Severy  &  many  thanks  for  his  Letter.  I  have  taken  a 
great  deal  of  pains  to  persuade  her  to  write  to  him  ;  but  she  has 
not  resolution  enough  to  take  up  her  pen.  I  must  whisper  to 
you  we  were  disappointed  at  not  hearing  a  few  lines  from  you. 

577. 
The  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd  to  Edward  Gillon, 

Brussels,  October  29th,  1791. 

It  is  probable  that  this  my  fourth  Letter  may  remain  unopened 
in  your  Pocket,  but  I  shall  leave  that  to  Fate,  &  only  think  of 
convincing  you,  that  I  still  remember  Lausanne  &  my  promise. 

(1766-69),  served  in  the  Spanish  army  at  the  siege  of  Gibraltar,  then  entered 
the  service  of  the  Empress  Catharine,  and,  as  an  admiral,  commanded  the 
Eussian  fleet  against  Turkey  and  afterwards  against  Sweden. 

'  Count  Nicholas  Eomanzov,  son  of  the  distinguished  Russian  general. 

^  Marc  Hilaire  de  Conzie  (1732-1805),  Bishop  of  St.  Omer,  became,  in 
1769,  Bishop  of  Arras.  With  his  brother,  who  succeeded  him  as  Bishop  of 
St.  Omcr,  he  administered  the  province  of  Artois.  He  followed  the  Comte 
d'Artois  in  his  flight  to  Italy,  and  at  London  was  afterwards  his  chief 
political  adviser.  He  was  a  friend  of  Madame  du  Deflfand,  who  writes  of 
him  enthusiastically.  The  Due  de  Le'vis  {Souvenirs  et  portraits)  speaks  of 
him  less  favourably :  "  II  ne  fit  que  du  mal  a  son  parti." 


1791.]  THE  SIGHTS  OF  BRUSSELS.  267 

I  like  to  let  People  know  how  unrcamiahU  I  am,  &  therefore  I 
will  tell  you  I  had  faint  hopes  of  finding  a  few  Lines  here,  either 
written  or  dictated  by  you.  I  frequently  ask  Mama,  do  you  think 
they  are  talking  of  us  at  Lausanne  ?  &  she  generally  answers— 
I  daresay  not ;  so  I  should  have  had  a  great  deal  of  satisfaction 
in  shewing  her,  that  you  thought  so  much  of  us  as  to  make  a 
violent  effort  to  tell  us  so.  We  have  proceeded  on  our  journey 
with  great  success  from  Cohlentz  to  Brussells,  &  to-morrow  go 
to  Antwerp.  We  arrived  here  on  Thursday  from  Louvain— the 
Eoad  was  so  bad  &  the  Post-horses  moved  in  such  a  Swiss 
manner,  that  we  were  four  days  coming  from  Cologne. 

The  first  day  we  slept  at  Juliers,  the  second  at  Liege,  the  third 
at  Louvain,  &  the  fourth  (as  I  had  the  honour  of  telling  you)  we 
came  to  Brussells,  &  fortunately  arrived  at  '  L'Imperatrice,'  the 
only  Hotel  where  there  was  a  single  Room  unoccupied,  just  as 
the  Princesse  de  Salms  was  moving  off — &  took  possession  of 
her  apartments  with  great  satisfaction,  as  we  expected  Coblenz 
accomodations. 

We  stayed  but  one  night  at  Cologne,  as  the  Marechal  de 
Castries  was  not  there,  &  the  Town  possessed  no  other  Charms 
to  tempt  us  to  stay,  for  it  is  the  most  dismal  place  I  have  seen. 
The  Marechal  is  here,  &  Papa  has  had  a  long  conference  with 
him.  Luckily  for  us.  Papa  has  neither  met  with  a  Quarter 
Master  nor  a  Commercial  man,  nor  a  Farmer  here,  so  we  have 
seen  a  great  deal  and  been  very  much  amused.  We  saw  the 
Palace  of  the  Archduchess,  a  league  out  of  Town,  yesterday — & 
it  is  fitted  up  with  more  Taste  than  any  thing  we  have  seen  in 
our  travels.  The  rest  of  our  time  has  been  spent  in  Churches,  the 
Arsenal,  &  some  good  Collections  of  Pictures.  I  have  not  time  to 
be  jjrollx  in  my  narration,  which  you  will  perhaps  not  be  sorry  for, 
as  you  are  not  as  fond  of  a  long  letter  as  I  am.  Mama  is  pretty 
well,  but  will  not  be  sorry  to  find  herself  at  her  own  fire  side 
again. 

Remember  us  to  those  who  remember  our  existence — you  will 
not  have  much  trouble,  for  I  suppose  you  will  only  dehver  the 
message  to  yourself — I  suspect  nobody  else  of  thinking  of  us. 
Louisa  desires  I  will  not  forget  her  best  Comp*^  to  M.  Mentrond ; 
she  does  not  choose  to  suppose  he  can  forget  her.  I  expect  to  hear 
a  great  deal  of  JTrs.  Wood—ov  if  any  body  else  has  supplied  her 
place  in  your  heart.     When  you  do  write,  if  such  an  unlikely 


268  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

event  should  ever  take  place,  pray  tell  me  something  of  every- 
body ;  I  shall  like  to  see  the  names  of  those  I  was  acquainted  with, 
&  while  I  read  y'  letter,  shall  fancy  myself  at  Lausanne. 

Believe  me, 

Ever  sincerely  y", 

Maria  T.  Holeoyd. 
I  write  in  such  haste  that  you  must  excuse  faults  of  Style, 
Writing,  &c. 


578. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Calais,  5th  Nov.,  1791. 

After  various  and  sundry  embarrassments,  here  we  are  safe. 
The  pleasure  of  the  visit  being  over  and  the  sorrow  of  departure 
come  on,  it  naturally  occurred  in  aid  of  my  concern  what  a 
damned  Fool  I  was  to  undertake  such  an  operation.  To  correct 
such  cogitation,  the  distractions  of  the  Rhine  were  some  relief. 
The  state  of  its  neighbourhood  is  at  this  time  very  interesting. 
It  was  curious  to  find  the  Princes  and  prime  Nobility  of  France 
thankf uU  to  be  allowed  to  exist  on  a  small  angle  formed  by  the 
Moselle  and  the  Rhine.  An  army  of  officers,  but  not  a  common 
man.  For  the  sake  of  visiting  the  Garrisons  of  Alsace,  I  went 
the  whole  length  of  that  Province.  Levade's  letters  were  of 
essential  service  to  me.  I  thankfully  wrote  to  him  when  I  had 
proceeded  far  down  the  Rhine.  Probably  I  furnished  some 
details,  with  which  he  probably  has  furnished  you.  I  know  not 
whether  I  mentioned  that  Huninge  and  Brisach  are  in  good  con- 
dition. An  incompleat  Regiment  of  two  battalions  in  each  place 
and  some  Dragoons,  not  sufficient  garrisons,  but  some  cantoned 
Troops  might  be  thrown  in  if  required. 

The  Regulars  at  Strasburgh  are  6760,  including  1100  Horse 
and  1300  artillery.  They  say  they  have  some  7000  National 
Guards,  I  doubt  it.  They  are  the  best  I  have  seen  ;  and  yet  they 
are  very  poor  stuff  for  Soldiers,  and  many  are  not  cloathed. 
I  dined  with  the  Colonel  of  Carbineers,  and  saw  the  finest 
regiment  of  France  in  detail,  and  also  a  Swiss  Regiment  (Viguier), 
one  of  the  best.  Some  of  the  regiments  are  not  more  soldier- 
like than  the  National  Guards.     The  Democrates  say  that  the 


1791.]        MILITARY  FORCES  ON  FRENCH  FRONTIER.  269 

officers,  being  Aristocrates,  neglect  the  men  on  purpose,  and 
wish  the  regiments  to  be  ruined  ;  40  officers  had  quitted  one 
regiment  in  Alsace.  In  short,  only  seven  remained  with  it, 
including  the  Colonel.  The  Park  of  Artillery  at  Strasburgh 
seems  vei-y  compleat.  It  is  the  second  in  the  Kingdom.  A 
Train  is  ready  for  40  Battalions.  The  Province  of  Alsace  is  at 
least  half  Aristocrate.  I  passed  the  evening  and  supped  at  the 
Mayor's  while  at  Strasburgh.  He  and  his  Lady  (a  clever  dame) 
thorough  Republicans.  Observe  the  Regulars  in  the  two  depart- 
ments of  the  Rhine  are  commanded  by  a  German,^  and  the 
National  Guards  by  a  Lt.-Colonel  who  is  a  Livonian.  Mirabeau's 
Corps  seems  a  miserable  collection  ;  several  deserters  came  from  it 
while  I  was  at  Strasburgh.  Finally  I  flattered  myself  there  would 
be  a  compleat  Brouillerie  between  the  regulars  and  the  National 
Guards  before  I  left  that  place.  The  officers  of  the  latter  are 
naturally  disposed  to  be  very  absurd.  The  double  pay  of  these 
troops  soldes  is  likely  to  have  an  excellent  effect  on  the  Troupes 
(leligne.  I  found  about  100  French  officers  at  Manterin.  Towards 
900  at  Worms.     Bouill^  and  a  certain  number  are  at  Mayence. 

Including  upwards  of  900  of  the  Gardes  du  Corps  and  near 
20  Generals,  there  are  2500  Officers  at  Coblentz.  I  was  very 
graciously  received  by  the  Princes.  They  give  a  supper  every 
night,  where  I  had  the  amusement  of  being  introduced  to  Marshal 
Broglie,^  &c.,  &c.  The  Prince  of  Cond6  and  Due  de  Bourbon 
were  there  on  a  visit.  Romanzov  has  brought  credentials  and 
two  millions  of  livres  French  from  the  Empress ;  Calonne  is  at 
Baths  not  far  distant  for  his  health  ;  Burke's  son  had  been  some- 
time at  Coblentz  and  was  gone  to  England  with  Cazales.  Our 
King  has  written  a  very  amicable  letter  to  the  Princes  promising 
neutrality.  I  went  to  Cologne  to  see  the  Marshal  de  Castries. 
He  was  gone  to  Brussels,  where  I  found  him.  At  every  inn  I 
found  20  or  30  French  Officers,  the  road  is  covered  with  them 
from  Brussels  to  Coblentz.  Nothing  can  be  worse  timed  than  this 
desertion.     It  is  a  Phrenzy  and  was  like  wildfire.     They  would 

J  The  Baron  de  Luckner  (1722-1794),  a  Bavarian,  entered  the  French 
service  after  the  Seven  Years'  War,  was  made  a  marshal  in  1791,  and 
guillotined  in  1794. 

""  The  Due  de  Broglie  (1718-1804),  one  of  the  most  distinguished  of  the 
French  generals  during  the  Seven  Years'  War,  was  made  a  marshal  in  1759. 
Louis  XVI.  appointed  him  in  1789  Minister  of  War ;  but  he  was  among  the 
earliest  of  the  ^migr€s.    He  entered  the  Russian  service  in  1794. 


270  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

be  much  better  with  their  regiments  and  ready  in  the  country  to 
protect  Friends  and  to  avail  themselves  of  circumstances.  The 
most  sensible  of  the  French  disapprove  this  migration.  The 
officers  leave  their  Regiments  without  concert  with  the  Princes, 
who  have  not  lately  encouraged  it.  There  seems  to  be  no  par- 
ticular plan  at  present  but  to  wait  events.  I  unfortunately 
missed  the  Abbe  Maury  passing  to  Coblentz.  I  wished  to  know 
him.  He  is  a  Cardinal  in  petto.  He  is  to  have  the  Arch-Bishop 
of  Sens's  Hat.  The  regular  regiments  were  long  ago  ordered  to 
be  completed  to  the  war  establishment,  but  on  an  average -they 
have  not  above  half  their  complements,  and  on  the  frontier  of 
the  Low  Countries  there  is  not  an  officer  left  except  Soldiers  of 
Fortune. 

VEsiirit  de  Revotution  is  not  likely  to  flourish  again  for  some 
time  in  the  Pais  Bas.  I  found  Imperial  and  Electoral  troops  in 
possession  of  Liege,  and  new  taxes  laid  to  pay  expenses,  viz.  on 
Dogs,  Servants,  bachelors,  &c.  The  Discontents  in  the  Austrian 
Netherlands  are  not  likely  to  be  of  much  consequence,  a  great 
part  of  the  country  was  miserably  duped  and  the  whole  thrown 
into  such  an  execrable  state,  that  none  but  the  lowest  of  the 
creation  can  wish  for  another  experiment  at  a  Revolution.  The 
leading  party  among  the  enemies  of  the  House  of  Austria  being 
Clergy  and  Aristocrates  cannot  coalesce  easily  with  the  Demo- 
crates  of  France.  All  the  Provinces  except  Brabant  are  content. 
Many  say  a  counter-revolution  in  France  is  impossible,  because 
the  Mass  of  the  People  are  of  one  mind.  Not  near  so  much  as 
the  Austrian  Netherlands  were.  There  almost  every  man  was 
a  Patriot,  yet  the  moment  an  army  appeared  there  was  not  a 
struggle.  The  different  extent  of  country,  &c.,  prevent  a  correct 
comparison. 

However,  it  may  be  observed  that  France  has  not  a  neighbour 
that  is  not  unfriendly  to  the  Revolution.  I  have  the  worst 
opinion  of  the  French  Army.  The  National  Guard  behaved 
execrably  at  Nancy,  where  alone  they  have  been  tried.  We 
indeed  were  told  the  contrary.  Some  Swiss  officers  (Democrates) 
who  acted  against  the  regiment  of  Chateau  Vieux  ^  have  given  me 

*  In  August,  1790,  the  Swiss  Eegiment  of  Chateau-Vicux  mutinied  at 
jMetz,  demanding  arrears  of  pay.  They  fired  upon  the  National  Guard, 
seized  the  regimental  treasury,  and  killed  Desilles.  The  outbreak  was 
quelled  by  Bouille.    Of  the  survivors  of  the  Eegiment  of  Chateau- Yieux, 


1791.]  THE  MEETING  AT  PILNITZ.  271 

details.  You  may  be  sure  that  the  Ecgulars  and  National  Guards 
will  not  agree.  I  am  satisfied  that  of  those  officers  who  remain 
with  the  Regiments,  almost  all  except  soldiers  of  fortune  are 
aristocrates.  The  soldiers  do  not  desert,  but  they  say  they  will  go 
to  Paris.  They  will  enter  into  the  Gardes  Nat,  soldes,  and  they 
go  where  they  please ;  nobody  can  stop  them.  Yet  with  such  a 
King  the  situation  of  the  Aristocrates  is  very  difficult.  Divisions 
will  naturally  take  place,  the  Kingdom  is  en  traine  to  be  torn  to 
pieces.  A  foreign  army  on  the  Frontier  or  advancing  to  Paris 
might  unite  them,  therefore  it  may  be  better  to  wait  events.  At 
the  same  time  I  have  not  a  notion  that  a  French  army  would 
fight  under  its  present  circumstances. 

It  was  a  comfort  to  see  the  excellent  Bohemian  and  Hun- 
garian Infantry  in  the  Austrian  Netherlands.  They  are  in  fine 
order.  The  Treaty  of  the  23rd  of  July  last  between  the  Emperor 
and  the  King  of  Prussia  has  been  well  concealed.^  It  is  defensive. 
The  supposition  is  that  Prussia  is  dissatisfied  with  England.  If 
Russia  should  accede  to  the  Treaty  (which  is  not  thought  unlikely), 
we  shall  be  compleatly  left  in  the  lurch. 

Maria  has  been  alert  and  well-disposed  to  your  correspond- 
ence. She  seemed  pleased  with  the  office,  but  she  will  expect  an 
answer.  She  has  saved  me  from  writing  sooner.  From  Brussels 
we  went  to  Antwerp,  Ghent,  Bruges,  Ostende,  and  Dunkirk  to 
this  place.  Mi  Ladi  continues  the  same.  I  should  have  stopped 
more  than  three  days  at  Brussels  if  I  had  not  been  afraid  of 
the  division  of  Mrs.  Maynard.  Say  everything  kmd  for  us  to 
the  de  Severy  family.  If  Mi  Ladi  does  not  reply  soon  to  the 
Fils,  I  shall.  I  found  letters  at  Brussels  by  which  I  learn  that 
your  £2000  is  accepted  by  the  Navigation  Society,  that  Mr.  Taylor 
has  found  a  mortgage  for  £5000  in  Yorkshire.    He  says  somewhat 

twenty-three  were  hanged,  and  forty-one  sent  to  the  galleys.  These  galley- 
slaves  were  subsequently  released ;  a  fete  in  their  honour  was  decreed  by 
the  Assembly;  their  chains  hung  up  as  trophies  in  the  Jacobin  Club  at 
Brest,  and  the  men  carried  through  Paris  in  triumph  on  April  15,  1792. 

'  The  meeting  of  the  King  Frederick  William  of  Prussia  and  the  Emperor 
Leopold  of  Austria  at  Pilnitz  in  1791,  excited  the  greatest  interest  in 
Europe.  It  was  supposed  at  the  time  that  the  second  partition  of  Poland 
was  there  concerted.  But  no  definite  declaration  in  common  seems  to  have 
been  signed  at  that  time  by  the  two  sovereigns,  except  an  engagement  to 
make  certain  representations  to  the  French  Government  as  to  Louis  XVI., 
the  Monarchy,  and  the  restoration  of  property  to  the  emigres,  and  to  invite 
an  European  concert  for  the  purpose  of  enforcing  these  representations. 


272  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

of  its  being  more  convenient  if  the  money  is  not  paid  till  a  little 
time  hence,  and  I  also  learn  that  my  worldly  affairs,  and  the 
Navigation,  have  gone  on  as  badly  as  might  be  expected  from  my 
absence. 

Remember  us  to  Mrs.  Grevers. 

579. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Giblon. 

[Incomplete  in  original.] 

The  increase  of  Mi  Ladi's  woman,  and  apprehensions  thereon, 
made  it  necessary  to  shorten  my  visits.  You  have  heard  of 
the  little  accident  on  board  the  Packet.  You  know  dear  Puif 
has  a  great  dislike  to  cats.  About  midnight,  midway  between 
France  and  England,  an  hideous  noise  like  that  of  a  cat  in  the 
act  of  being  strangled  was  heard.  Puff  barked  and  was  furious. 
I  looked  out  of  my  den,  and  beheld  it  was  an  human  kitten 
that  proceeded  from  Mrs.  Maynard  who  was  prostrate  on  the 
floor.  My  Lady  also  incumbent  there.  Maria  contemplative 
and  Louisa  astonished.  Not  a  creature  on  board  the*  Packet 
but  ourselves  and  the  crew.  We  never  know  what  we  may  come 
to,  and  above  all  we  should  not  have  guessed  that  Mi  Ladi 
was  to  become  a  mid-wife.  The  mother  and  child  could  not 
have  been  better,  (and  have  continued  so,)  if  all  the  obstetric 
Faculty  of  Paris  and  London  had  attended.  The  mother  was  so 
well  that  she  expressed  the  greatest  anxiety  to  go  with  us  the  day 
following  above  80  miles  across  the  country  to  this  place.  We 
left  her  in  good  lodgings  and  in  good  care.  The  want  of  her 
prevented  the  Ladies  from  passing  two  days  at  Lord  Guilford's. 
We  found  two  letters  from  him  at  Dover  and  a  dozen  messages. 
I  went  and  had  a  pleasant  dinner  Avith  him,  and  returned  at  night 
to  the  Ladies. 

I  must  now  come  to  the  unpleasant  part,  your  business. 
Immediately  on  my  return  I  wrote  to  Taylor  about  the  £5000 
mortgage.  I  have  a  letter  full  of  disappointment.  The  person 
to  be  paid  off  has  accepted  low  interest.  He  complains  of  being 
frequently  thus  treated.  Don't  bother  yourself.  I  still  hope 
soon  to  settle  the  business. 

I  wrote  you  a  long  letter  from  Calais. 


1791.]  DISTRESSES   UPON  THE   SEA.  273 

580. 

The  Hon.  Maria  Holroijd  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Sheffield  Place,  Nov.  13th,  1791. 

It  is  with  a  mixture  of  satisfaction  &  regret,  that  I  com- 
plete my  part  of  our  engagement  in  writing  this  Letter.  I  find 
great  pleasure  in  being  returned  to  dear,  precious  Sheffield,  &  iu 
telling  you  so,  because  I  am  sure  you  will  be  glad  to  hear  we  are 
safe  and  well ;  but  writing  to  you  the  last  letter  is  like  a  second 
taking  leave,  &  tho'  I  have  been  near  six  weeks  upon  the 
journey  from  Lausanne,  that  moment  is  still  as  fresh  in  my 
memory  as  it  was  the  next  day,  &  the  recollection  of  it  as 
unpleasing.  If  I  dared  I  would  ask  to  be  allowed  to  tell  you  we 
were  alive,  now  «fe  then  when  Papa  &  Mama  were  in  an  idle 
mood,  &  to  be  allowed  to  hope  for  an  answer  once  in  two  or  three 
years^  in  your  own  hand  or  not,  as  you  thought  proper  or  found 
convenient. 

I  was  very  glad  Papa  wrote  a  long  letter  from  Calais,  as  his 
information  about  things  in  general  would  be  more  interesting 
to  you  than  mine,  as  I  suppose  he  gave  you  a  full  account 
of  our  route  from  Brussells  to  Calais.  I  will  only  tell  you  that 
I  was  very  much  amused  at  Antwerp,  &  that  I  catch  myself, 
now  &  then,  mahing  believe  to  know  a  good  Picture  from  a 
bad  one — having  seen  so  many  excellent  ones  lately.  We  left 
Calais  last  Sunday  at  9  in  the  morning,  having  waited  three  days 
for  a  favorable  wind,  &  at  last  in  despair,  set  off  in  a  perfect 
Calm,  which  prolonged  our  passage  24  hours — which  was  uncom- 
monly tedious,  &  very  bad  luck,  as  our  Passage  from  Brighton 
was  as  tiresome  in  coming  over.  However  to  pass  the  time,  or  to 
diversify  the  amusements  of  the  Passage,  which  from  the  sickness 
of  the  Company  would  have  preserved  some  degree  of  sameness, 
Mrs.  Maynard  with  Mama's  assistance,  half  way  between  Calais 
&  Dover,  presented  the  cabbin  boy  with  a  Sea  Nymph ;  wliich 
with  its  Mother  are  now  as  ivell  as  can  be  expected,  at  Cap"  Samp- 
son's house  at  Dover.  I  have  heard  that  Sailors,  when  they  come 
from  a  voyage,  find  great  pleasure  in  talking  of  &  recollecting 
Toils  &  Dangers  past — such  is  our  case  ;  for  we  have  laughed 
very  heartily  here,  at  our  Distresses  upon  the  Sea — which  certainly 
at  the  time  was  no  laughing  matter. 

VOL,  II.  T 


274  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

We  found  the  inhabitants  of  S.  P.  in  excellent  preservation 
&  quite  rejoyced  to  see  us  returned — most  of  them,  when  we 
left  England,  being  convinced  we  should  be  all  massacred  by 
the  National  Assembly  in  a  very  short  time.  I  hope  the  quiet 
life  of  this  place  will  soon  restore  Mama's  health  &  spirits,  who 
desires  her  kindest  remembrances  to  you  &  those  we  love  at 
Lausanne.     Do  not  let  anybody  forget  us,  for  we  forget  nobody. 

Ever  much  y", 

M.  T.  HOLROYD. 

581. 

Lord  Shejfield  to  Edward  Gihlon. 

Sheffield  Place,  13th  Dec,  1791. 

My  Lady  is  getting  quite  well.  Bratts  very  fond  of  their 
Swiss  Tour.  I  have  passed  a  week  very  pleasantly  in  London. 
King  apparently  quite  well.  Lally  a  great  favomite  with  Lord 
Loughborough.  He  assisted  at  a  copious  dinner  at  Batt's,  and 
said  he  never  enjoyed  one  more  interesting.  He  saw  Lord 
Guilford  on  his  passage  through  London,  who  was  well  pleased 
with  him,  as  also  is  Douglas.  Tell  Mr.  Trevor  good  care  will  be 
taken  of  him.  La  Comtesse  de  Lally  seems  to  preserve  a  strict 
incognito.  Lady  Loughborough  visits  her.  I  can  only  collect 
that  she  doth  not  appear  to  like  to  go  out.  It  is  said,  she  has  not 
confined  her  practices  to  Lally.  Introduced  him  to  Burke,  who 
says  the  said  Lally  persists  in  his  errors,  and  justifies  all  his 
mischievous  conduct  in  the  beginning,  and  the  said  Burke  is  as 
ridiculous  and  as  absurd  as  may  be  imagined.^  I  have  been  pre- 
sented to  Cazales  (who  resides  with  Burke),  but  I  had  not  an 
opportunity  of  seeing  anything  of  him.  England  has  supplied 
and  has  been  paid  for  36,000  stand  of  aims  for  the  Emigrants. 
The  Corps  Diplomatique  at  London  says  that  Spain  has  sent 
.5  millions  of  livres  to  the  Princes,  and  Portugal  4  millions — 
Berlin  2  millions. 

'  In  his  Letter  to  a  Member  of  the  Natioiml  Assembly,  dated  January  19, 
1791  (^Worhs  (1855),  vol.  ii.  pp.  540,  547),  Burke  spoke  severely  of  Mounier 
and  Lally.  He  took  up  the  position  of  a  French  aristocrat,  and  treated  the 
English  Constitution  as  unsuited  to  France.  Lally  replied  to  him  in  his 
Lettre  au  trcs  hon.  Edm.  Burke,  membre  du  parlement  d'Angleterre  (June  20, 
1791),  and  in  his  Seconde  lettre  in  1792.  In  these  letters  he  defended  the 
aims  of  the  constitutional  reformers  in  France. 


1791]        MARRIAGE,   BATTLE,   FIRE,   AND  SCANDAL.  275 

I  have  expectation  of  seeing  Batt  and  Lally  here  at  Christmas. 
Tell  Levade  I  have  only  just  learned  where  to  find  his  son-in-law. 
1  hope  also  to  see  him  here.  People  begin  to  talk  of  o^  per  Cent, 
for  money. 

582. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Sheffield  Place,  25tli  Dec,  1791. 

I  am  obliged  to  write  to  you,  otherwise  it  would  not  be 
proper,  because  we  are  determined  to  starve  you  into  a  more 
decent  deportment ;  not  a  fragment  from  you  except  the  medley 
to  Maria.  She  has  been  so  zealous  in  your  service,  that  she 
deserved  more  notice.  The  obligation  to  write  is  that  a  pipe  of 
Madeira  (which  has  travelled  and  is  very  good)  is  ordered  to  set 
out  for  Lausanne  by  the  same  consignment  and  way  as  the  last, 
ert/o  you  must  give  notice  to  your  correspondent  at  Basle,  &c. 

Nothing  extraordinary  has  occurred  in  this  family  since  my 
last.  My  Lady  is  better.  We  expect  Batt  to-morrow,  probably 
Lally,  and  also  Mr.  Levade's  son-in-law,  with  whom  I  have  cor- 
responded. The  Duchess  of  York '  almost  smothered  the  French 
Revolution  in  this  country ;  Lord  CornwaUis's  operations  -  almost 
suppressed  the  Duchess  of  York,  and  I  daresay  the  Duke  of  Rich- 
mond's fire  ^  has  afforded  some  relief  to  Lord  Cornwallis.  I  should 
be  happy  to  furnish  you  with  as  much  scandal  as  possible,  but  I 
know  of  no  event  of  the  kind  worth  record,  unless  Lady  Belmore's  * 
trip  to  the  Continent  incontinently  Avith  Lord  Ancrum  should  be 
deemed  so,  and  Lady  Tyrconneli's  ^  Flight  to  Glamis  Castle  with 

'  On  October  1,  1791,  the  Duke  of  York  was  married  at  Berlin  to  the 
Princess  Frederica  of  Prussia.  On  November  23  they  -were  remarried,  at 
seven  o'clock  in  the  evening,  at  "  the  Queen's  house  "  in  London. 

-  In  India  against  Tippoo.    See  note  at  the  end  of  the  letter. 

'  Between  9  and  12  a.m.  on  December  21,  1791,  the  Duke  of  Richmond's 
house  in  Privy  Gardens,  now  called  Whitehall  Gardens,  was  almost  com- 
pletely destroyed  by  fire. 

*  Henrietta,  daughter  of  John,  second  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire  (bom 
1762),  married,  in  1780,  Armar  Corry,  Earl  of  Belmore,  from  whom  she  was 
divorced  in  1792.  She  afterwards,  April  16,  1793,  married  "William,  Earl  of 
Ancram. 

^  The  Countess  of  Tyrconnel,  the  second  wife  of  the  Earl  of  Tyrconnel, 
was  the  yoimgest  daughter  of  Lord  Delaval,  and  therefore  a  niece  of  the 
notorious  Sir  Francis  Delaval.  Rumour  had  coupled  her  name  with  that  of 
the  Duke  of  York  (Wraxall's  Posthumous  Memoir?,  vol.  iii.  p.  192). 


276  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

Lord  Strathmorc.  These  amiable  women  have  left  behind  them 
i^rown  daughters.     May  the  Mamas 

I  have  secured  for  you  the  famous  Shakespear ;  Boydel  ^  is 
.satisfied  that  I  subscribad  for  two  setts.  It  is  by  far  the  finest 
book  ever  printed.  I  have  your  first  number  and  5  large  and  5 
small  prints  in  my  possession,  but  I  shall  not  send  them— you 
must  come  for  them. 

As  you  care  nothing  about  the  good  of  the  nation,  it  is  almost 
unnecessary  to  mention  that  the  gross  produce  of  the  Permanent 
Revenue  last  year,  including  Land  and  Malt,  amounted  to 
.£20,355,380  exclusive  of  fines,  forfeitm'es.  Taxes  on  Places,  First 
Fruits,  &c.,  amounting  to  £125,476  and  the  profit  of  the 
Lottery.  The  Gross  Excise  last  year  £9,054,850,  encrease  this 
year  £1,200,000,  of  which  £800,000  are  old  and  £400,000  new 
Duties.  The  British  Shipping  has  increased  318,522  tons  since 
1773.  The  whole  tonnage  of  France  is  not  much  more  than  a 
fourth  more.  Their  tonnage  in  1787  was  little  more  than  a  fifth 
of  ours. 

Lord  Cornwallis  ^  has  been  marching  about  in  Tippoo's  country 
for  six  weeks  to  prove  that  it  was  not  the  monsoon  that  obliged 
him  to  quit  Seringapatam.  Was  it  not  a  curious  omission  to  have 
neither  a  minister  nor  a  spy  in  the  Maratta  Camp,  and  was  it  not 
an  extraordinary  folly  to  risk  an  engagement   for   the   purpose 

"  John  Boydell,  in  178G,  began  to  prepare  his  illustrated  edition  of 
Shakespeare,  and  built  a  gallery  in  Pall  Mall  for  the  exhibition  of  the 
pictures  painted  for  the  work.  The  work  was  published  in  eighteen  parts, 
of  which  the  first  appeared  in  1791,  and  the  whole  was  completed  in  1802. 

2  The  third  Mysore  war  began  with  the  invasion  of  the  protected  district 
of  Travancore  in  1789  by  Tippoo,  who  laid  waste  the  Carnatic  almost  to  the 
gates  of  Madras.  The  war  lasted  for  three  years.  Lord  Cornwallis,  in  April 
and  May,  1791,  advanced  from  Bangalore  to  Seringapatam,  and  drove  Tippoo's 
army  before  him  into  the  capital  (May  15).  General  Abercromby,  advancing 
towards  the  same  point  from  the  west,  reached  Periapatnam.  But,  owing  to 
the  difficulty  of  crossing  the  swollen  Cavery,  the  two  forces  could  not  unite. 
A  few  days  later,  the  heavy  rains  and  want  of  provisions  compelled  Cornwallis 
(May  26)  to  retire,  leaving  the  greater  part  of  his  heavy  artillery.  At  the 
same  time  Abercromby  retreated  to  Tellicherry  on  the  east  coast.  Near 
Bangalore,  Cornwallis  unexpectedly  encountered  the  Mahratta  horse  advancing 
to  his  assistance.  In  the  autumn  and  winter  months  many  hill-forts  were 
reduced  on  the  road  to  Seringapatam,  and  on  February  5,  1792,  Cornwallis 
once  more  arrived  before  its  walls.  Tippoo,  on  March  18,  1792,  signed  a 
peace  by  which  he  surrendered  half  his  territories,  paid  a  war  indemnity, 
.'ind  gave  up  two  of  his  sons  as  hostages  for  the  due  performance  of  the 
treaty. 


1791.]  THE  DEMON   OF   rilOCKASTINATION.  277 

of  besieging  Seringapatam  0  days  before  there  was  an  absolute 
famine  in  the  English  Camp?  Abercrombie's  cattle  were  all 
swept  away  by  Tippoo's  General,  and  neither  Abcrcrombic  nor 
any  of  his  officers  have  a  second  coat  or  shirt. 

We  never  had  cavalry  in  an  Indian  Army  before.     It  was  the 
great  strength  of  this  famous  army.     It  is  all  ruined. 


583. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  December  28th,  1791. 

*Alas  !  alas  !  the  Demon  of  procrastination  has  again  possessed 
me.  Three  months  have  nearly  rolled  away  since  your  departure  : 
and  seven  letters,  five  from  the  most  valuable  Maria,  and  two 
from  Yourself,  have  extorted  from  me  only  a  single  epistle,  which, 
perhaps,  would  never  have  been  written,  had  I  not  used  the  per- 
mission of  employing  my  own  tongue  and  the  hand  of  a  secretary. 
Shall  I  tell  you,  that,  for  these  last  six  weeks,  the  eve  of  every 
post  day  has  witnessed  a  firm  resolution,  and  the  day  itself  has 
furnished  some  ingenious  delay  ?  This  morning,  for  instance,  I 
had  determined  to  invade  you  as  soon  as  the  breakfast  things 
should  be  removed  :  they  were  removed  ;  but  I  had  something  to 
read,  to  write,  to  meditate,  and  there  was  time  enough  before  me. 
Hour  after  hour  has  stolen  away,  and  I  finally  begin  my  letter  at 
two  o'clock,  evidently  too  late  for  the  post,  as  I  must  dress,  dine, 
go  abroad,  &c.  A  foundation,  however,  shall  he  laid,  which  will 
stare  me  in  the  face  ;  and  next  Saturday  I  shall  probably  be 
rowzed  by  the  awful  reflection  that  it  is  the  last  day  in  the  year. 

After  realizing  this  summer  an  event  which  I  had  long  con- 
sidered as  a  dream  of  fancy,  I  know  not  whether  I  should  rejoyce 
or  grieve  at  your  visit  to  Lausanne.  While  I  possessed  the  family, 
the  sentiment  of  pleasure,  with  some  occasional  shades,  highly 
predominated  ;  and  the  last  weeks  of  harmony  and  content  were 
those  which  I  the  most  truly  enjoyed,  when,  just  as  we  had  sub- 
sided in  a  regular,  easy,  comfortable  plan  of  life,  the  last  trum]) 
sounded,  and,  without  speaking  of  the  pang  of  separation,  you  left 
me  to  one  of  the  most  gloomy,  solitary  months  of  October,  which 
I  have  ever  passed. 

For  yourself  and  daughter,  however,  you  have  contrived  to 


278  GIBBON'S   CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

snatch  some  of  the  most  interesting  scenes  of  this  World. 
Paris,  at  such  a  moment,  Switzerland,  and  the  Rhine,  have 
suggested  a  train  of  lively  images  and  useful  ideas,  which  will 
not  be  speedily  erazed.  The  mind  of  the  young  Damsel,  more 
especially,  will  be  enlarged  and  enlightened  in  every  sense  ; 
in  four  months  she  has  lived  many  years ;  and  she  will  much 
deceive  and  displease  me,  if  she  does  not  review  and  methodize 
her  journal,  in  such  a  manner  as  she  is  capable  of  performing,  for 
the  amusement  of  her  particular  friends.  Another  benefit  which 
will  redound  from  your  recent  view  is,  that  every  place,  person, 
and  object,  about  Lausanne,  are  now  become  familiar  and  in- 
teresting to  you.  In  our  future  correspondence  (do  I  dare 
pronounce  the  word  correspondence  ?)  I  can  talk  to  you  as 
freely  of  every  circumstance  as  if  it  were  actually  before  your 
-eyes. 

And  first,  of  my  own  improvements. — All  those  venerable  piles 
of  ancient  verdure  which  you  admired,  have  been  eradicated  in 
one  fatal  day.  Your  faithful  substitutes,  William  de  Severy  and 
Levade,  have  never  ceased  to  persecute  me,  till  I  signed  their 
death  warrant.  Their  place  is  now  supplied  by  a  number  of 
picturesque  naked  poles,  the  foster  fathers  of  as  many  twigs  of 
platanuses  and  acacias,  which  may  afford  a  grateful  but  distant 
shade  to  the  founder,  or  to  his  sen's  nepotihus.  In  the  meanwhile 
I  must  confess  that  the  terrace  appears  broader,  and  that  I  dis- 
cover a  much  larger  quantity  of  snow  than  I  should  otherwise  do. 
The  workmen  admire  your  ingenious  plan  for  cutting  out  a  new 
bed-chamber  and  book-room ;  but,  on  mature  consideration,  we 
all  unanimously  prefer  the  old  scheme  of  adding  a  third  room 
beyond  the  library,  with  two  spacious  windows,  and  a  fire-place 
between,  on  the  Terrace.  It  will  be  larger  (28  feet  by  21),  and 
pleasanter,  and  warmer  :  the  difference  of  expence  will  be  much 
less  considerable  than  I  imagined  :  the  door  of  communication 
with  the  library  will  be  artfully  buried  in  the  wainscot ;  and, 
unless  it  be  opened  by  my  own  choice,  may  always  remain  a 
profound  secret.  Such  is  the  design ;  but  as  it  will  not  be 
executed  before  next  summer,  you  have  time  and  liberty  to  state 
your  objections.  I  am  much  colder  about  the  staircase,  but  it 
may  be  finished,  according  to  your  idea,  for  thirty  pounds  ;  and  I 
feel  they  will  persuade  me.  Am  I  not  a  very  rich  man  ?  When 
these  alterations  are  compleated,  not  forgetting  the  waterclosct, 


1791.]  PEACE  OR  WAR  IN   EUROPE?  279 

few  authors  of  six  Volumes  in  quartos  will  be  more  agreeably 
lodged  than  myself, 

Lausanne  is  now  full  and  lively ;  all  our  native  families  are 
returned  from  the  Country  ;  and,  praised  be  the  Lord,  we  are 
infested  with  few  foreigners,  either  French  or  English.  Even 
our  Democrafces  are  more  reasonable  or  more  discreet ;  it  is 
agreed  to  wave  the  subject  of  politics,  and  we  all  seem  happy 
and  cordial.  I  have  a  grand  dinner  this  week,  a  supper  of 
thirty  or  forty  people  on  Twelfth-day,  &c.  ;  some  concerts 
have  taken  place,  some  balls  are  talked  of ;  and  even  Maria 
Avould  alloAV  (yet  it  is  ungenerous  to  say  even  Maria)  that  the 
winter  scene  at  Lausanne  is  tolerably  gay  and  active.  I  say 
nothing  of  the  Severys,  as  x\ngletine  has  epistolized  Maria  last 
post.  She  has  probably  hinted  her  brother  meditates  a  short 
excursion  to  Turin  ;  that  worthy  creature  Trevor  has  given  him  a 
pressing  invitation  to  his  own  house.  Mrs.  Trevor,  who  is  one  of 
us,  does  not  envy  him. 

In  the  beginning  of  February  I  propose  going  to  Geneva 
for  three  or  four  weeks.  I  shall  lodge  and  eat  Avith  the  Neckers  ; 
my  mornings  will  be  my  own,  and  I  shall  spend  my  evenings 
in  the  society  of  the  place,  where  I  have  many  acquaintance. 
This  short  absence  will  agitate  my  stagnant  life,  and  restore 
me  with  fresh  appetite  to  my  house,  my  library,  and  my  friends. 
Before  that  time,  the  end  of  February,  what  events  may  happen, 
or  be  ready  to  happen  !  The  National  assembly  ^  (compared  to 
which  the  former  was  a  Senate  of  heroes  and  Demigods)  seem 
resolved  to  attack  Germany  avec  quatre  millions  de  hayonettes 
librcs ;  the  army  of  the  princes  must  soon  either  fight,  or  starve, 
or  conquer.    Will  Sweden  draw  his  sword  ?  -  will  Eussia  draw  her 


>  The  States-General  met  May  5,  1789.  On  June  17,  1789,  the  Third 
Estate  formed  itself  into  a  National  Assembly,  which  was  dissolved 
September  30,  1791.  The  Legislative  Assembly,  also  constituted  a  National 
Assembly,  sate  from  October  1,  1791,  to  September  21,  1792.  In  December, 
1791,  Louis  XVI.  threatened  that,  if  the  Electors  of  Treves  and  Mayence  did 
not  prevent  the  assembly  of  troops  in  their  territories,  he  would  declare  war. 
On  March  1, 1792,  the  Emperor  Leopold  II.  died,  and  was  succeeded,  as  King 
of  Hungary  and  Bohemia,  by  his  son  Francis  Joseph.  Against  him  France 
declared  war,  April  20,  1792. 

*  Gustaviis  III.,  King  of  Sweden  (1746-1792),  was  assassinated  by  Anckar- 
etriJm  in  March,  1792.  He  had  offered  his  services  against  France  as 
ffcneralissimo  of  the  forces  of  the  Allied  Powers. 


280  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

purse  ? '  an  empty  purse  !  All  is  darkness  and  anarchy  :  neither 
party  is  strong  enough  to  impose  a  settlement ;  and  1  cannot 
see  a  possibility  of  an  amicable  arrangement,  where  there  are 
no  heads  (in  any  sense  of  the  word)  who  can  answer  for  the 
multitude.  Send  me  your  ideas,  and  those  of  Lord  Guildford, 
Lord  Loughborough,  Fox,  &c. 

Before  I  conclude,  a  word  of  my  vexatious  affairs. — Shall  I 
never  sail  on  the  smooth  stream  of  good  security  and  half-yearly 
interest  ?  Will  every  body  refuse  my  money  'i  I  had  already 
written  to  Darell  and  Gosling  to  obey  your  commands,  and  was  in 
hopes  that  you  had  already  made  large  and  salutary  evacuations. 
During  your  absence  I  never  expected  much  effect  from  the  cold 
indifference  of  agents  ;  but  you  are  now  in  England — you  will  be 
speedily  in  London ;  set  all  your  setting  dogs  to  beat  the  field, 
hunt,  enquire,— why  should  you  not  advertise  ?  And  let  not  the 
Goslings  dine  at  my  expence,  I  know  not  what  to  say  at  present 
of  India  bonds— do  they  not  Sink  ?  Our  affairs  in  that  Country 
seem  in  a  very  ticklish  situation.  At  all  events  consult  with 
Barrel,  he  has  knowledge  of  that  sort  and  is  a  real  friend. 
Yet  I  am  almost  ashamed  to  complain  of  some  stagnation  of 
interest,  when  I  am  witness  to  the  natural  and  acquired  philosophy 
of  so  many  French,  who  are  reduced  from  riches,  not  to  indio-ence. 
but  to  absolute  want  and  beggary.  A  Count  Argout  has  just  left 
us,  who  possessed  ten  thousand  a-year  in  the  Island  of  St. 
Domingo  ;  ^  he  is  utterly  burned  and  ruined  ;  and  a  brother,  whom 
he  tenderly  loved,  has  been  murdered  by  the  Negroes.  These  are 
real  misfortunes. 

I  have  much  revolved  the  plan  of  the  Memoirs  I  once 
mentioned ;  and,  as  you  do  not  think  it  ridiculous,  I  believe 
I  shall  make  an  attempt  :  if  I  can  please  myself,  I  am  con- 
fident of  not  displeasing  ;   but  let  this  be  a  profound  secret 

'  Russia,  after  withdrawing  lior  ambassador  from  Paris,  ordered  the 
French  minister  to  leave  St.  Petersburg  in  August,  1792. 

=  The  negroes  in  the  French  or  western  part  of  the  Island  of  St.  Domingo 
rose  against  the  whites  in  August,  1791 .  In  September  the  General  Assembly 
of  the  island  appealed  to  the  National  Assembly  at  Paris  for  aid,  by  a  letter 
detailing  the  horrors  of  the  insurrection,  and  later  (November  30)  by  sending 
a  dcputj%  who  was  heard  in  the  National  Assembly.  The  insurrection  was 
the  first  step  in  the  independence  of  Hayti,  which  was  recognized  by  the 
French  in  1825.  A  Comte  d'Argout  succeeded  the  Comte  d'Ennery  as 
governor  of  the  colony  in  1777. 


1791.]  AN   AMAZING   PUSH   OF   REMORSE.  281 

between  us :  people  must,  not  be  prepared  to  laugh  ;  they  must 
be  taken  by  surprize.  Have  you  looked  over  your,  or  rather  my 
letters  ?  Surely  in  the  course  of  the  year,  you  may  find  a  safe 
and  cheap  occasion  of  sending  me  a  parcel ;  they  may  assist  me. 
Adieu.  I  embrace  My  Lady  :  send  me  a  favourable  account  of 
her  health  and  spirits.  How  happy  might  we  have  been,  could 
she  have  preserved  them  at  Lausanne  !  I  kiss  the  Marmaille.  By 
an  amazing  push  of  remorse  and  diligence  I  have  finished  my 
letter,  three  pages  and  a  half,  this  same  day  since  dinner  ;  but  I 
have  not  time  to  read  it.  Ever  yours."' 
half  past  six. 


584. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  December  3Ist,  1791. 
To-morrow  a  new  year,  muUos  et  felicet. 

*1  now  most  sincerely  repent  of  my  late  repentance,  and  do 
almost  swear  never  to  renounce  the  amiable  and  useful  practice 
of  procrastination.  Had  I  delayed,  as  I  was  strongly  tempted, 
another  post,  your  missive  of  the  13th,  which  did  not  reach  me 
till  this  morning  (three  mails  were  due),  would  have  arrived  in 
time,  and  I  might  have  avoided  this  second  Herculean  labour.  It 
will  be,  however,  no  more  than  an  infant  Hercules.  The  topics  of 
conversation  have  been  fully  discussed,  and  I  shall  now  confine 
myself  to  the  needful  of  the  new  business.  Felix  faustumque 
sit!  May  no  untoward  accident  disarrange  your  Yorkshire 
Mortgage  ;  the  conclusion  of  which  will  place  me  in  a  clear  and 
easy  state,  such  as  I  have  never  known  since  the  first  hour  of 
property."" 

Considering  the  fragment  which  we  had  recovered  from 
Hugonin's  shipwreck,  and  the  large  autumnal  payments,  I  should 
have  imagined  that  the  Goslings  would  have  been  somewhat 
fatter :  your  lawyers'  bills,  the  last  (as  I  flatter  myself)  that  I 
shall  ever  know,  must  have  cut  deeper  than  you  expected  ;  but  I 
shall  see  the  detail  of  their  account.  If  the  Yorkshire  friend 
should  like  £G000  instead  of  £5000,  and  if  the  estate  would  afford 
adequate  and  ample  security,  why  should  you  not  desire  Barrel  to 
sell  the  amount  of  £3800  ?     I  should  then  have  exactly  £20,000 


282  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1791. 

firmly  seated  on  land  and  water,  besides  your  annuity  of  £250, 
and  I  would  not  touch  the  moderate  residue  of  my  short  annuities, 
till  poor  Mrs.  G.'s  dismission  from  below  (which  cannot  be  a 
very  distant  event)  shall  release  me  from  her  annual  tribute 
of  £300. 

*The  three  per  cents  are  so  high,  and  the  country  is  in  such  a 
damned  state  of  prosperity  under  that  fellow  Pitt,  that  it  goes 
against  me  to  purchase  at  such  low  interest.  In  my  visit  to 
England  next  autumn,  or  in  the  spring  following,  (alas  !  you  must 
acquiesce  in  the  alternative,)  I  hope  to  be  armed  with  sufficient 
materials  to  draw  upon  Cadell  for  a  loose  sum  of  £1000  perhaps  or 
£1500,  which  may  be  employed  as  taste  or  fancy  shall  dictate,  in 
the  improvement  of  my  library,  a  service  of  plate,  &c.  I  am  not 
very  sanguine,  but  surely  this  is  no  uncomfortable  prospect. 

This  pecuniary  detail,  which  has  not  indeed  been  so  unpleasant 
as  it  used  formerly  to  be,  has  carried  me  farther  than  I  expected. 
Let  us  now  drink  and  be  merry.  I  flatter  myself  that  your  Madeira, 
improved  by  its  travels,  will  set  forwards  for  Messrs.  Romberg,  at 
Ostend,  early  in  the  spring  ;  and  I  should  be  very  well  pleased  if 
you  could  add  a  hogshead  of  excellent  claret,  for  which  we  should 
be  entitled  to  the  Drawback.  They  must  halt  at  Basle,  and  send 
notice  to  me  for  a  safe  conduct.  Have  you  had  any  intelligence 
from  Lord  Awkland  about  the  wine  which  he  was  to  order  from 
Bourdeaux,  by  Marseilles  and  the  Rhone  ?  The  one  need  not 
impede  the  other  ;  I  wish  to  have  a  long  stock.  Corea  has 
promised  me  a  hogshead  of  his  native  Madeira,  for  which  I  am  to 
give  him  an  order  on  Cadell  for  a  copy  of  the  Decline  and  Fall : 
he  vanished  without  notice,  and  is  now  at  Paris.  Could  you  not 
fish  out  his  direction  by  Mrs.  Wood,  who  by  this  time  is  in 
England  ?  I  rejoice  in  Lally's  prosperity,  but  cannot  think 
Burke  so  very  mad.  Have  you  reconsidered  my  proposal  of  a 
declaration  of  constitutional  principles  from  the  heads  of  the 
party  ?  I  think  a  foolish  address  from  a  body  of  Whigs  to  the 
national  assembly  renders  it  still  more  incumbent  on  you.  The 
intelligence  of  my  Lady's  amendment  has  given  us  all  most 
heartfelt  pleasure.  How  very  unlucky  was  the  moment !  Achieve 
my  worldly  concerns,  et  eris  mihi  magnus  Apollo.  Adieu,  ever 
yours.'" 


171)2.]  THE  CAPACITY  OF  MARIA  HOLROYD.  283 

585. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Sheffield  Place,  16tb  January,  1792. 

The  circumstance  of  your  beiug  already  damned  (in  the  opinion 
of  all  good  people)  has  often  checked  expectoration,  and  has  often 
been  so  far  inconvenient  as  to  deprive  me  of  an  Exordium,  which 
occasion  and  fine  feelings  inspired.  I  have  been  boiling  for  some 
time,  and  was  meditating  some  eminent  degree  of  abuse  when  your 
letters  of  the  28th  and  3 1st  ultimo  arrived  this  morning.  They 
have  so  far  softened,  as  to  save  me  the  trouble  of  examining  your 
impudent  excuses.  Seven  to  one  are  great  odds,  especially  in 
letter  writing. 

As  to  Lausanne,  I  do  not  like  to  talk  of  my  visit  there.  I  do 
not  think  I  enjoyed  it  half  enough.  It  is  true  I  contrived  to 
snatch  some  of  the  most  interesting  scenes  of  this  world.  France 
and  Paris  at  such  a  moment — the  truly  Sovereign  Proceedings  of 
Berne.^  It  was  a  comfort  to  see  the  whiskered  Germans,  that 
excellent  contrast  to  the  French  National  Guards.  The  Rhine 
and  Austrian  Flanders,  though  last,  did  not  promote  and  assist 
less  lively  images  or  less  usefull  ideas.  The  young  ladies  are  still 
full  of  their  excursion,  and  they  seem  even  more  delighted  with 
the  recollection  than  they  were  with  the  enjoyment.  I  am  glad 
you  recommended  to  Maria  to  review  and  methodise  her  journal. 
Her  capacity,  if  well  directed,  is  equal  to  anything.  I  hear  a 
superlative  account  from  various  parts  of  the  letters  she  wrote  to 
England.  I  have  not  seen  them.  I  hear  a  good  deal  also  of  my 
own,  and  I  wish  I  had  some  long  lettei-s  I  wrote  to  the  Duke  of 
Portland,  Lord  Guilford,  and  Lord  Loughborough.  I  have  no 
journal  or  memoranda  of  the  subjects  of  them. 

We  have  had  some  extra  encitements  to  think  of  Lausanne. 
First  came  Francillon,  smart,  pleasing,  and  attentive,  and  although 

*  A  commission  presided  over  by  M.  Fischer,  supported  by  two  or  three 
thousand  militia  of  the  Canton  of  Berne,  was  sent  to  inquire  into  the  attempts 
to  introduce  the  principles  of  the  French  Revolution  into  the  Pays  de  Vaud. 
Several  persons  were  arrested,  and  secretly  examined.  MM.  Rosset  and  La 
Motte  were  confined  in  the  Castle  of  Chillon,  and  being  afterwards  condemned 
to  a  long  period  of  imprisonment  for  correspondence  with  the  French,  were 
transferred  to  the  Castle  of  Arbourg,  whence  they  escaped. 


284  gibbon's  correspondence.  -  [1792. 

he  has  not  a  very  imposing  Parsonick  gravity,  I  think  I  discover 
that  he  is  a  dihgent  pastor.  There  is  a  small  matter  which  I 
flatter  myself  I  may  be  able  to  do  for  him  by  means  of  the 
Arch-Bishop  of  Canterbmy.  IST.B. — Levade's  letter  was  a  great 
treat  to  us,  and  Lavater's  manuscript  is  considered  by  the  Family 
as  an  acquisition.     I  shall  write  to  the  former  speedily. 

Francillon  stayed  here  about  ten  days,  but  before  his  de- 
parture, the   Lally  ToUendal  arrived.     That  lively,  miserable, 
pleasant,  mortified,  pious,  and  ingenuous   man  has  been  here 
above  a  fortnight,  and  what  is  still  more  miraculous,  he  does 
not  seem  to  have  the  least  disposition  to  go  ;  and  yet  I  have 
Avalked  him  on  foot  over  ploughed  fields  when  very  wet,  and 
I   have  trotted  him  on  horseback  in  the  roughest  lanes  when 
frozen  as  hard  as  possible.     He  is  delighted  with  the  Library, 
where  he  finds  a  great  variety  of  books  he  had  not  seen.     He 
has  made  exhilirating  discoveries  in  respect  to  Strafford,^  and 
he  is  become  the  most  profound  Antiquarian  in  Parliamentary 
history  that  I  know.    As  it  is  not  customary  for  him  to  wear 
breeches  until  he  goes  out,  which  is  always  late,   or  until  he 
comes  to  dinner,  I  have  just  received  a  note  from  his  apait- 
raent,  which  states  that  not  being  in  condition  to  enter  the 
Library  (Mrs.   Poole  in  her  83rd  year  is  there)   he  prays  me 
to  send  him  certain  folios.     Poor  fellow,  his  nerves  are  in  a 
horrid  state,  but  he  says  not  worse  than  they  have  generally 
been  since  he  had  the  small  pox.     Tell  Mrs,  Trevor  I  am  par- 
ticularly attentive  to  his  health.     I  recommend  regular  meals 
instead  of  one  enormous  dinner,  and  earlier  times  of  going  to  and 
rising  from  bed,  to  which  in  some  degree  he  attends.     My  Lady, 
(who  is  infinitely  better)  takes  to  him  amazingly,  but  that  seems 
the  custom  with  all  Ladies.     I  have  only  one  objection  to  him, 
namely,  he  reads  in  Bed  and  is  eminently  distrait ;  I  am  sorry,  as 
it  is  a  rule  with  me  never  to  solicit  a  second  visit  from  a  person 
who  has  that  practice,  because  there  is  some  inconvenience  in 
having  the  house  burnt  down  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  unless 

'  Lally's  tragedy  of  Strafford,  in  five  acts  and  verse,  was  printed  at 
London  in  1795.  His  Essai  sur  la  vie  de  Thomas  Wentworth,  Comte  de 
Strafford,  was  published  at  London  in  the  same  year.  Madame  d'Arblay,  in 
February,  1792,  speaks  of  Miss  Fanshawe  having  heard  "  the  famous  M.  Lally 
Tolcndahl  read  a  French  tragedy  upon  an  English  subject  written  by 
himself!  The  subject  was  the  death  of  Strafford."  Lally  was  probably 
attracted  to  the  subject  by  the  circumstances  of  his  own  father's  execution. 


1792.]  LALLY  TOLLENDAL  AT  COURT.  285 

it  could  be  so  contrived  that  all  the  inhabitants  should  be  burnt 
at  the  same  time  without  knowing  anything  of  the  matter.  I 
wish  his  Malkiu  was  re-established  at  Tonrnay — and  so  I  believe 
does  he.  The  expectations  from  tlie  uncles  are  not  flattering.  I 
fancy  he  would  like  best  to  be  with  his  Princesses  of  the  Desert 
and  Madame  Trevor.  Lord  Loughborough  is  extremely  pleased 
with  him  and  is  uncommonly  kind  to  him.  Lord  Guilford  likes 
him,  and  Lally  was  much  satisfied  with  his  visit  of  two  days  to 
Bushey  Park.  The  King  took  a  great  deal  of  notice  of  him,  and 
talked  to  him  a  long  time.  They  conversed  on  the  Renversement 
do,  toiites  ks  Idees  que  caracterisait  La  Revolution  Francaise.  Lally 
said,  "  Sire,  Je  quitte  mi  des  siijets  de  voire  3Iajestie  et  certaine- 
nient  des  ^jIus  distijigues.  11  a  caracterise  a  merveilh  par  une  seule 
2)laisanterie  ce  que  nous  arrive.''''  ^^Qui?^^  "J/.  Gibbon."  ^^ Et 
que  dit  il  ?  "  "  11  dif,  que  la  Revolution  Francaise  lui  rappetle  Je 
terns  de  son  enfance,  oil  on  luifaisait  voir  dans  une  grande  estamjjc 
un  codion  faisant  rotir  un  Ouisinier.''^  Lally  adds,  "iSa  3Iajestie 
Brittanique  a  ri  de  ce  rire  inextinguihle  que  Homer  nous  donne 
pour  un  attribut  des  Dieux^'' 

Finally,  the  Count  is  likely  to  pass  his  time  in  London  as  well 
as  can  be  expected  in  his  burdened  state.  Everybody  interests 
themselves  about  him.  Yet  I  can  discover  no  symptom  of  a  com- 
modious arrangement  for  him.  I  thought  he  would  have  gone  to 
the  Queen's  Naissance,^  but  I  think  he  will  now  stay  here  till 
Parliament  meets,  viz.  the  olst  instant.  On  his  passage  to  this 
Island,  he  had  a  long  conversation  with  De  Bouille  at  Mayence. 
You  will  remember  I  have  abused  that  general  for  not  attempting 
to  retake  the  King.  I  was  unjust.  He  followed  him  with  one 
thousand  cavalry  nine  leagues  in  what  is  stated  an  incredibly 
short  time  (yet  fom*  hours  are  mentioned),  and  was  stopped  by  a 
river,"  like  Lord  Cornwallis  going  to  join  Abercrombie,  who  com- 
plains that  he  had  not  been  told  of  that  river  ;  but  if  they  were 
afraid  of  being  drowned  a  Ja  nagc,  500  of  them  might  have  gone 
into  the  river,  and  by  holding  themselves  and  their  horses  in  a 

•  Marie  Antoinette  was  born  November  2,  1755. 

-  Bouille',  warned  by  a  messenger  from  Choiscul  that  the  king  was 
detained  at  Varennes,  rode  from  Dun-sur-Meuse,  about  twenty-two  miles 
from  Montmedy,  to  within  sight  of  the  village,  but  could  not  cross  the  Aire ; 
thousands  of  the  National  Guard  had  mustered,  and  the  king  was  already  on 
his  return  journey  to  Paris. 


286  gibbon's  cokrespondence.  [1792. 

proper  direction  might  have  formed  a  temporary  bridge  for  the 
other  500. 

The  flight  failed  through  the  King's  departure  a  day  later 
than  he  proposed.  The  attendance  of  a  democratic  woman  on 
the  Dauphin  was  to  end  on  the  day  which  had  been  fixed.  The 
King  had  announced  to  Bouille  that  it  would  be  better  to  delay 
till  the  woman's  time  was  out,  but  too  late  for  him  to  give  notice 
to  the  Person  and  Troops  he  had  posted.  Charles  Damas  and 
Choiseul^  had  advanced  to  meet  the  King.  He  not  coming  on  the 
day  he  was  expected,  they  supposed  the  enterprise  had  failed,  and 
retired  two  hours  only  before  the  King  arrived.  He  expected  to 
find  a  relay  of  horses  on  the  Paris  side  of  Varrennes.  The  horses 
were  waiting  on  the  other  side,  of  which  the  King  had  no  infor- 
mation. The  Postillions  would  not  pass  the  stage.  The  King, 
not  meeting  those  persons  he  expected,  despaired.  The  Queen 
was  impatient,  got  out  of  the  carriage,  enquired  at  diflPerent  places 
for  the  relay.  Thence  suspicions  arose.  Damas  and  Choiseul 
finding  they  had  caused  some  jealousy,  had  returned  by  a  cross 
road,  otherwise  the  King  would  have  overtaken  them.  They 
came  into  Varrennes  after  the  King  was  seized.  Bouille  says  the 
flight  was  entirely  planned  by  the  King,  that  the  Emperor  had 
pressed  the  attempt.  He  excuses  his  letter,  &c.,  by  saying  "  His 
object  was  to  turn  the  thoughts  of  the  people  from  the  King 
on  him."  What  a  reverse  for  poor  Bouille  !  If  the  King  had 
reached  Montmedi,  I  have  not  a  doubt  of  his  having  been  joined 
by  the  Army  and  of  his  being  now  re-established  at  Paris. 
Bouille  would  have  been  in  the  highest  situation.  Now  he  is  a 
vagabond  in  Germany. 

Letters  from  Paris  represent  Pitt  as  the  vilest  Machiavel  in 
respect  to  French  afl'airs.  Perhaps  France  has  no  great  right 
to  complain.  When  lately  in  London  I  dined  in  company  with 
the  Duke  of  Eichmond,  and  was  sitting  next  him.  I  whispered 
that  the  Prmces  were  very  well  satisfied  with  our  King's  friendly 

>  The  Comte  de  Damas,  who  was  stationed  on  the  Ste.  Menehould  side  of 
Varennes,  joined  the  king  at  Clermont-en-Argonne,  where  the  road  westward 
from  Ste.  Menehould  strikes  to  the  north  to  Varennes  and  Montme'dy. 
The  Duo  de  Choiseul  and  his  hussars,  who  had  been  posted  on  the  Montme'dy 
side  of  Varennes,  also  joined  the  king  at  Varennes.  But  their  troops  refused 
to  act  against  the  National  Guard.  The  relays  were  stationed  at  the 
further  side  of  the  bridge  over  the  Aire,  which  had  been  blocked  by  Post- 
master Drouet. 


1792.]  THE  HIDEOUS   PLAGUE  IN  FRANCE.  287 

letter  to  tlicm,  which  promised  neutrality  on  the  part  of  Britain. 
The  Duke  said,  twice,  with  eaj^erness,  "  No,  no.  It  promised 
nothing."  If  the  plague,  comparatively  a  trifling  misfortune, 
had  broke  out  in  France,  the  neighbouring  countries  would  have 
formed  a  cordon  round  it — but  now,  when  the  most  hideous 
plague  that  can  be  imagined,  rages  there,  which  no  cordon 
ever  will  be  able  to  contain,  if  it  should  continue,  but  which 
inevitably  will  spread  over  and  contaminate  all  Europe,  it  is 
treated  as  a  matter  of  ordinary  policy.  I  do  not  understand 
these  precious  Sovereigns.  They  deserve  their  fate,  and  their 
ministers  to  be  hanged,  but  I  object  to  the  several  countries 
being  torn  to  pieces  ;  at  the  same  time  I  must  say  that  I  do  not 
see  that  there  is  sufficient  ground  to  believe  our  ministers  are 
acting  a  double  part  as  is  supposed.  Finally,  it  is  obvious  that 
there  is  not  at  present  the  possibility  of  an  arrangement  between 
the  two  parties  of  France,  because  neither  party  can  govern  or 
answer  for  the  multitude.  Lally  talks  with  much  satisfaction  of 
the  manner  in  which  Lord  Guilford  expressed  himself  in  respect 
to  Necker,  his  honour,  honesty,  &c.,  &c.  He  is  greatly  struck 
with  his  candour,  moderation  and  good  sense.  Remember  me  in  an 
handsome  manner  to  M.  and  Madame  Necker  when  you  see  them. 

As  you  talk  of  being  restored  to  your  pristine  tranquility 
at  Lausanne,  and  that  Politicks  are  waved,  I  suppose  Mr.  Com- 
missioner Fischer  is  gone.  Eather  than  part  with  him,  I  should 
have  been  content  with  your  alarms  and  your  Politicks.  I  should 
even  have  regretted  the  whiskers  and  my  Friend  Meluner.  Maria 
says  the  Commissioner  is  gone,  because  you  presume  to  mention  a 
Ball.  I  hope  Wilhelm  de  Severy  was  not  obliged  to  make  verses. 
Remember  us  to  his  excellent  Pere,  Mere,  &  Soeur. 

Luckily  it  is  not  necessary  to  reserve  much  space  for  your 
affairs.  They  are  in  good  train.  It  is  a  satisfaction  when  I 
can  observe  in  you  a  dawning  of  intelligence  in  such  matters, 
and  that  you  see  there  is  an  advantage  of  15  per  cent,  in 
changing  at  this  time  from  the  Funds  to  a  Mortgage,  besides 
the  security  against  depreciation.  I  have  already  written  to 
desire  that  yom*  Fund  in  Yorkshire  may  be  increased  if  it  should 
suit.  I  should  have  remembered  the  Dowager.  However,  the 
interest  of  Stock  now  due  and  the  money  you  have  at  Lau- 
sanne will  be  enough  for  two  months.  Remember  it  wiU  be 
little  more  before  considerable  payments  will  be  made.    You 


288  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1792. 

are  a  rich  old  fellow.  I  shall  leave  the  India  Bonds  if  the  price 
should  be  bad.  The  Lawyers'  bills  paid  are  only  those  I  showed 
to  you.  I  apprehend  the  Madeira  has  begun  its  travels.  I  think 
I  discovered  when  I  saw  Lord  Auckland  lately,  that  he  had 
done  nothing  respecting  the  claret,  but  I  believe  I  can  provide 
for  you  by  another  channel. 

I  have  an  imperfect  recollection  of  having  mentioned  in  a  late 
letter  some  instances  of  British  prosperity,  but  I  know  not  what. 
The  gross  produce  of  the  permanent  Revenue  of  the  year  ending 
S'**  Jan'',  1791,  including  Land-Tax  and  Annual  Malt,  amounted 
to  £20,355,380,  exclusive  of  casual  revenue,  such  as  seizures,  fines, 
taxes  on  Places  &  Pensions,  First  fruits,  &c.,  amounting  to 
£125,476,  and  exclusive  also  of  the  profits  of  the  Lottery.  The 
actual  receipt  of  the  Excise  for  the  same  year  was  £9,054,850 

Resting  to  be  accounted  for        194,245 


£9,249,090 

Expense  of  management,  £505,014.  But  allowances,  Exports, 
Bounties,  &c.,  reduced  the  nett  payment  into  the  ^Exchequer  to 
£7,689,973  ;  notwithstanding  this  ample  amount,  the  net  increase 
of  the  excise  for  the  year  ending  5"*  Jan'',  1792,  will  not  be  less 
than  £1,200,000,  of  which  £800,000  are  old,  and  £400,000  are 
new  duties.  The  general  expence  of  collecting  all  the  Taxes  is 
£5  13s.  Id.  per  cent.  I  understand  the  expence  of  collecting  the 
Revenue  in  France  previous  to  the  Revolution  Avas  £11  17s.  M. 
per  cent. 

You  recollect  that  we  ought  to  have  been  ruined  by  the  Inde- 
pendence of  America — selon  tons  les  regies,  except  mine  and  a  few 
others — yet  since  1773,  when  the  troubles  in  America  began,  the 
export  of  British  manufactures  have  gradually  increased  upwards 
of  four  millions  annually.  British  built  commercial  tonnage  has 
increased  since  that  period  318,522  tons,  which  is  more  than  three- 
fourths  of  the  whole  Commercial  tonnage  of  France.  Thanks  to 
that  illustrious  writer  the  Lord  Sheffield.  The  total  of  French 
commercial  tonnage  is  426,121.  Total  of  English,  1,527,240, 
English  coasting  tonnage  3,711,135,  French  ditto  1,004,729. 
There  is  more  Foreign  than  French  shipping  employed  in  the 
trade  of  France,  When  their  silly  and  crazy  patriots  have  ruined 
their  West  India  trade,  they  will  have  little  occasion  for  sailors. 
Such  considerations  arc  beneath  such  elevated  minds. 


1792.]  HIASSA  KING  WILBERFOKCE.  2&9 

We  arc  52:01112^  to  send  300  dismounted  lA^ht  Dragoons  to 
Jamaica  and  (iOO  foot  from  Nova  Scotia.  Hitherto  all  has  been 
quiet  there,  but  oOOO  Negroes  assembled  in  the  parish  of  West- 
moreland to  celebrate  Massa  King  Wilberforce's  Birthday,^  lately 
raised  some  alai-m.  Happily  they  were  quietly  dispersed.  Have 
you  observed  that  the  estimated  expence  of  France  for  the  last 
year  was  about  20  millions  sterling,  and  the  Ways  and  Means  about 
2-i  millions  ?  (It  is  rather  awkward  to  set  out  with  a  deficit  of  2 
millions.)  On  the  :')lst  October  last,  only  about  2,700,000  had 
been  received,  and  it  was  not  even  supposed  then  that  more  than 
2,400,000  more  Avould  b3  paid  before  the  end  of  the  year.  The 
Arrear  of  Taxes  since  the  Revolution  is  about  70,000,000.  The 
Land-tax  however  is  not  to  be  considered  as  all  lost.  The  im- 
perfect receipt  of  it  arises  from  an  incomplete  arrangement,  I 
understand,  as  to  the  mode  of  collection.  About  12  millions  of 
that  tax  are  behind. 

I  have  not  thought  so  bad  of  your  taste,  since  I  heard  the  vile 
unmeaning  masses  are  removed  from  your  Terrace,  and  I  hope 
most  of  the  vulgar  flower-pots.  You  have  not  given  a  tolerable 
reason  for  preferring  a  bed-chamber  which  cannot  have  a  good 
approach,  without  indeed  a  very  great  expence.  What  I  propose, 
may  be  done  without  spoiling  your  Library,  and  without  disturb- 
ing you  in  that  comfortable  room. 

I  have  not  forgot  your  poultry,  I  could  have  done  the  need- 
full  for  £7,  instead  of  £70.  You  did  not  want  a  menagerie.  The 
alteration  of  the  staircase  would  do  away  the  most  awkward 
entrance  I  ever  saw  into  an  House  at  a  very  small  expense — but 
if  the  French  Revolution  is  not  checked,  I  must  flatter  myself 
your  Books  wdl  be  used  for  cartridges.  As  to  the  letters,  I 
thought  you  expressed  indifference  about  them  before  I  left  you. 
I  shall  examine,  altho'  I  do  not  believe  there  are  many  except  of 
a  late  Times.     Assure  the  Duchess  of  Biron'^  (she  is  a  great 

'  In  Westmoreland  County,  Jamaica,  "  particularly  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Elizabeth,  there  have  been  nightly  meetings  of  the  Negroes,  where  they  have 
not  hesitated  to  call  Wilberforce  their  King,  by  the  name  (in  their  way)  of 
King  Wilberforce."  (Extract  from  a  letter  quoted  in  the  Gentlemari's  Maga- 
zine for  February,  1792,  vol.  62,  p.  174.) 

*  Amelie  de  Boufflers,  only  daughter  of  the  Due  de  BouflBers,  was  born 

in  1751.     J.  J.  Rousseau  speaks  enthusiastically  of  her,  when  he  saw  her  as  a 

girl  at  the  house  of  lier  grandmother,  the  jMare'chale  de  Luxembourg.     She 

married,  in  1766,  Armand  Louis  de  Gontaut,  Due  de  Lauzuu,  wlio  succeeded 

VOL.  II.  U 


290  GIBBON'S  COBRESPONEEXCE.  [1792. 

favourite   here)    that   tlie  parcel  for   Madame  de  Cambis  was 
received  safe. 

586. 
To  Lord  Shpffiehi. 

Lausanne,  April  4tli,  1792. 

"Tor  fear  you  should  abl^se  me.  as  usual,  I  will  begin  the 
attack,  and  scold  at  you,  for  not  having  yet  sent  me  the  long- 
expected  intelligence  of  the  completion  of  my  mortgage.  You 
had  positively  assured  me  that  the  second  of  February  would 
terminate  my  worldly  cares,  by  a  consummation  so  devoutly  to 
be  wished.  The  news,  therefore,  might  reach  me  about  the 
16th;  and  I  argued  with  the  gentle  logic  of  lazyness,  that  it 
was  perfectly  idle  to  answer  your  letter,  till  I  could  chaunt  a 
thanksgiving  song  of  gratitude  and  praise.  As  every  post  dis- 
appointed my  hopes,  the  same  argument  was  repeated  for  the 
next ;  and  twenty  empty-handed  postilions  have  blown  their 
insignificant  horns,  till  I  am  provoked  at  last  to  write  by  sheer 
impatience  and  vexation. 

Facit  indignatio  versum.  Cospefto  di  Baccho ;  for  I  must  ease 
myself  by  swearing  a  little.  "What  is  the  cause,  the  meaning,  the 
pretence,  of  this  delay  ?  Are  the  Yorkshire  Mortgagors  incon- 
stant in  their  Avishes  ?  are  the  London  lawyers  constant  in  their 
procrastination  ?  Is  a  letter  on  the  road,  to  inform  that  all  is  con- 
cluded, or  to  tell  me  that  all  is  broke  to  pieces  ?  In  sober  truth 
I  am  out  of  humour  to  think  of  all  the  dinners  that  the  Goslings 
have  given  at  my  expence.  Had  the  money  been  placed  in  the 
three  per  Cents  last  May,  besides  the  annual  iuterest,  it  would 
now  have  gained  by  the  rise  of  stock  nearly  twenty  per  Cent. 
Your  Lordship  is  a  wise  man,  a  successful  writer,  and  a  useful 

Ms  nncle  as  Dae  de  Brron.  Dissolute  and  a  spendthrift,  the  duie  hated  the 
king  and  queen  because  he  had  not  been  appointed  to  succeed  his  uncle  as 
Colonel  of  the  Guards  {Souvenirs  et  Portraits,  par  le  Due  de  Leris,  pp. 
191-201).  He  joined  the  extreme  revolutionary  party.  His  wife,  who  had 
lived  apart  from  him  for  many  years,  in  1791-2  passed  some  months  at 
Lausanne.  She  rettrmed  to  France  from  England  in  November,  1792,  was 
arrested  and  released  at  the  intercession  of  her  husband,  whom  she  had  not 
seen  for  fifteen  years.  In  England  she  lived  with  the  Princesse  d'He'nin 
till  October.  1793,  when  she  again  returned  to  France.  She  was  arrested  and 
guillotined  in  1794.     The  Due  was  executed  in  December,  1793. 


1792.J  A  MONTH  WITH  THE  XECKERS.  291 

Senator ;  jou  understand  America  and  Ireland,  Cora  and  Slaves, 
but  your  prejudice  against  the  funds,  in  which  I  am  often  tempted 
to  joyn,  makes  you  a  little  blind  to  their  enereasing  value  in  the 
hands  of  our  virtuous  and  excellent  minister.  But  our  regret  is 
vain  ;  one  pull  more  and  we  reach  the  shore  ;  and  our  future  cor- 
respondence will  be  no  longer  tainted  with  business.  But  shall  I 
then  be  more  diligent  and  regular  ?  I  hope  and  believe  so  ;  for 
now  that  I  have  got  over  this  article  of  worldly  interest,  my  letter 
seems  to  be  almost  finished. 

A  propos  of  letters,  am  I  not  a  sad  dog  to  forget  My  Lady  and 
Maria  ?  Alas  !  the  dual  number  has  been  prejudicial  to  both. 
How  happy  could  I  be  with  either,  were  t'other  dear  charmer 
away.  I  am  like  the  Ass  of  famous  memory  ;  I  cannot  tell  which 
way  to  turn  first,  and  there  I  stand  mute  and  immoveable.  The 
Baronial  and  maternal  dignity  of  My  Lady,  supported  by  twenty 
years'  friendship,  may  claim  the  preference.  But  the  five  in- 
comparable lettei-s  of  Maria  I — Xest  week,  however. — Am  I  not 
ashamed  to  talk  of  next  "Week  ? 

I  have  most  successfully,  and  most  agreeably,  executed  my 
plan  of  spending  the  month  of  March  at  Geneva,  in  the  Xecker 
house,  and  every  circumstance  that  I  had  arranged  turned  out 
beyond  my  expectation  ;  the  freedom  of  the  morning,  the  society 
of  the  table  and  drawing-room,  frorii  half  an  hour  past  two  till 
six  or  seven ;  an  evening  assembly  and  card-party,  in  a  round  of 
the  best  company,  and,  except  one  day  in  the  week,  a  private 
supper  of  free  and  friendly  conversation.  You  would  like  Geneva 
better  than  Lausanne  ;  there  is  much  more  information  to  be  got 
among  the  men ;  but  though  I  found  some  agreeable  women, 
their  manners  and  style  of  life  are,  upon  the  whole,  less  easy  and 
pleasant  than  our  own.  I  was  much  pleased  with  Xecker 's 
brother,  Mr.  de  Germani,^  a  good-humoured,  polite,  sensible  man, 
without  the  genius  or  fame  of  the  statesman,  but  much  more 
adapted  for  private  and  ordinary  happiness. 

Madame  de  Stael  is  expected  in  a  few  weeks  at  Copet,  where 
they  receive  her,  and  where,  "'  to  dumb  forgetfullness  a  prey,"  she 
will  have  leisure  to  regret  the  pleasing  anxious  being,  which  she 

^  Louis  Xecker  (1730-lSOi),  elder  brother  of  Jacques  Xecker  the  states- 
man, assumed  the  name  of  de  Germanie  on  succeeding  to  an  estate  of  that 
name  which  he  inherited  from  his  father.  He  had  made  a  fortune  as  a 
banker  at  Marseilles. 


292  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDEXCE.  [1792. 

enjoyed  amidst  the  storms  of  Paris.  But  what  can  the  poor  creature 
do  ?  her  husband  is  in  Sweden,^  her  lover  is  no  longer  Secretary  of 
War,-  and  her  father's  house  is  the  only  place  where  she  can  reside 
with  the  least  degree  of  prudence  and  decency.  Of  that  father  I 
have  really  a  much  higher  idea  than  I  ever  had  before ;  in  our 
domestic  intimacy  he  cast  away  his  gloom  and  reserve ;  I  saw  a 
great  deal  of  his  mind,  and  all  that  I  saw  is  fair  and  worthy.  He 
was  overwhelmed  by  the  hurricane,  he  mistook  his  way  in  the 
fog,  but  in  such  a  perilous  situation,  I  much  doubt  whether  any 
mortal  could  have  seen  or  stood.  In  the  meanwhile,  he  is  abused 
by  all  parties,  and  none  of  the  French  in  Geneva  will  set  their 
foot  in  his  house.  He  remembers  Lord  Sheffield  with  esteem. 
His  health  is  good,  and  he  would  be  tranquil  in  his  private  life, 
were  not  his  spirits  continually  wounded  by  the  arrival  of  every 
letter  and  every  newspaper.  His  sympathy  is  deeply  interested 
by  the  fatal  consequences  of  a  Revolution,  in  which  he  had  acted 
so  leading  a  part ;  and  he  feels  as  a  friend  for  the  danger  of  Mr. 
de  Lessart,^  who  may  be  guilty  in  the  eyes  of  the  Jacobins,  or 
even  of  his  judges,  by  those  very  actions  and  dispatches  which 
would  be  the  most  approved  by  all  true  Lovers  of  his  Country. 

What  a  momentous  event  is  the  Emperor's  death  !  *  In  the 
forms  of  a  new  reign,  and  of  the  Imperial  election,  the  Democrates 
have  at  least  gained  time,  if  they  knew  how  to  use  it.  But  the  new 
Monarch,  though  of  a  weak  complexion,  is  of  a  martial  temper ; 

•  The  Baron  de  Stael-Holstein  was  Swedish  Ambassador  at  Paris  from 
178.')  to  1792. 

^  M.  deNarbonne-Lara  was  Minister  of  War  from  December,  1791,  to  March. 
1792.  Born  in  1755,  he  is  said  to  have  been  the  son  of  Madame  Adelaide  and 
the  Comtc  de  Narbonne,  her  chamberlain.  He  was  one  of  the  few  persons 
who,  according  to  Talleyrand,  were  completely  in  the  confidence  of  Mirabeau. 
"  Le  Comte  Louis  de  Narbonne  est  enfin  ministre  de  la  guerre,  d'hier,"  wrote 
Marie  Antoinette  to  Coimt  Fersen.  "Quelle  gloire  pour  M'""  de  Stael,et 
quel  plaisir  pour  elle  d'avoir  toute  I'arme'e  .  .  .  k  elle ! "  (Klinckowstrcim. 
Le  Comte  de  Fersen  et  la  Cour  de  France,  i.  269).  After  the  insurrection  of 
August  10, 1792,  Narbonne  was  saved  by  Madame  de  Stael  and  M.  Bollmann, 
and  took  refuge  in  England. 

^  Antoine  de  Lessart,  Minister  of  the  Interior  and  of  Foreign  Affaire 
(1791-2),  was  accused  of  corresponding  with  the  ^migr^s  and  the  emperor, 
tried  before  the  High  Court  of  Orleans  for  treason,  and  murdered  in  the 
September  massacres  of  1792. 

*  The  Emperor  Leopold  11.  died  IMarch  1, 1792,  and  was  succeeded  by  hifl 
Bon  Francis  Joseph,  who,  pending  his  election  as  emperor,  took  the  title  of 
King  of  Bohemia  and  Hungary. 


1792.]  THE   MAIICII   OF  THE   MAESEILLAIS.  29o 

liC  loves  the  Soldiers,  and  is  beloved  by  tlicm  ;  and  ilie  slow, 
liuctuating  politics  of  his  uncle  may  be  succeeded  by  a  direct  line 
of  march  to  the  gates  of  Strasburgh  and  Paris.  It  is  the  opinion 
of  the  master-movers  in  France,  (I  know  it  most  certainly,)  that 
their  troops  will  not  fight,  that  the  people  have  lost  all  sense  of 
]3atriotism,  and  that  on  the  first  discharge  of  an  Austrian  cannon 
the  game  is  up.  But  what  occasion  for  Austrians  or  Spaniards  ? 
the  French  are  themselves  their  greatest  enemies  ;  4000  Mareeillais 
are  marched  against  Aries  and  Avignon,  the  troupes  de  ligne  are 
divided  between  the  two  parties,  and  the  flame  of  civil  war  will 
soon  extend  over  the  southern  provinces.^  You  have  heard  of 
the  unworthy  treatment  of  the  Swiss  regiment  of  Ernst.  The 
canton  of  Bern  has  bravely  recalled  them,  with  a  stout  letter  to 
the  King  of  France,  which  must  be  inserted  in  all  the  papers. 

I  now  come  to  the  most  unpleasant  articles,  our  home  politics. 
Rosset  and  La  Motte  are  condemned  to  five  and  twenty  years 
imprisonment  in  the  fortress  of  Arbourg.  We  have  not  yet 
received  their  official  sentence,  nor  is  it  believed  that  the  proofs 
;ind  proceedings  against  them  will  be  published ;  an  awkward 
circumstance,  which  it  does  not  seem  easy  to  justify.  Some 
(though  none  of  note)  are  taken  up,  several  are  fled,  many  more 
are  suspected  and  suspicious.  All  are  silent,  but  it  is  the  silence 
of  fear  and  discontent ;  and  the  secret  hatred  which  rankled 
against  Government  begins  to  point  against  the  few  who  are 
known  to  be  well-afifected. 

I  never  knew  any  place  so  much  changed  as  Lausanne,  even 
since  last  year  ;  and  though  you  will  not  be  much  obliged  to  me 

•  Taine  traces  to  the  action  of  Marseilles  ia  the  autumn  of  1791  the 
lirst  crop  of  the  "arbre  revolutionnaire "  (La  B^volution,  vol.  ii.  c.  vi.). 
Marseilles,  in  fact,  became  a  Republic  which  undertook  the  conquest  of 
eouthern  provinces.  In  February,  1792,  four  thousand  Marseillais  marched 
upon  Aix,  and  disarmed  and  pillaged  the  Swiss  Regiment  of  Ernest.  In  the 
following  March,  they  made  themselves  masters  of  Aries.  Their  troops, 
''  vraie  Sodome  eirante,"  pillaged  the  country,  and  plundered,  outraged,  or 
massacred  peaceful  inhabitants.  Avignon,  which  with  the  Oomtat  Venaissin 
was  united  to  France  in  September,  1791,  was  the  next  object  of  their 
attack.  It  had  been,  in  October,  1791,  the  scene  of  the  horrible  massacres 
of  La  Glaciere  perpetrated  by  Jourdan  Coupe-Tele  and  the  "Brigands  of 
Avignon."  Jourdan's  cruelties  had  produced  a  reaction.  But  in  April, 
1792,  he  was  carried  in  triumph  by  the  Marseillais  through  the  streets  of  the 
city,  and  restored  to  his  usurped  position  as  governor  and  commander- 
in-chief.    Jourdan,  it  may  be  added,  was  guillotined  in  May,  1791. 


291  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

for  the  motive,  I  begin  very  seriously  to  think  of  visiting  Sheffield- 
place  by  the  month  of  September  next.  Yet  here  again  I  am 
frightened,  by  the  dangers  of  a  French,  and  the  difficulties  of  a 
German,  route.  You  must  send  me  an  account  of  the  passage 
from  Brighton,  with  an  itinerary  of  the  Rhine,  distances,  expences, 
&c.  As  usual,  I  just  save  the  post,  nor  have  I  time  to  read  my 
letter,  which,  after  wasting  the  morning  in  deliberation,  has  been 
struck  off  in  a  heat  since  dinner.  No  news  of  the  Madeira.  The 
views  of  Sh.-pl.  are  just  received  ;  they  are  admired,  and  shall  be 
framed.  Severy  has  spent  the  Carnival  at  Turin.  Trevor  is 
only  the  best  man  in  the  World."' 


587. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Downing  Street,  18th  April,  1792. 

You  will  readily  guess  that  I  do  not  write  to  you  because  the 
Mortgage  was  not  finished,  but  I  cannot  readily  guess  the  cause 
of  your  not  answering  my  letter,  which  according  to  the  best  of 
my  recollection  was  long  and  amiable.  Be  assured  that  you  are 
a  worthless  fellow. 

"When  the  Yorkshire  business  is  finished  you  will  have  £20,000 
as  well  placed  as  can  be.  N.B.  The  Buriton  interest  is  not  yet 
paid,  but  I  suppose  will  in  a  few  days.  I  have  been  at  Sheffield 
Place  near  a  fortnight  during  Easter. 

I  am  engaged  in  numberless  matters  before  the  Commons, 
British  business  is  not  slack.  I  have  been  all  night  at  a  Ball. 
I  am  just  returned  from  a  Congress  with  Mr.  Secretary  Dundas 
on  the  subject  of  his  Slave  Bill.^    He  and  I  are  likely  to  agree. 

'  In  April,  1792,  Wilberforce  brought  forward  his  annual  motion  for  the 
abolition  of  the  slave  trade.  Pitt  made  one  of  his  most  eloquent  speeches  ia 
its  support.  Dundas  moved  as  an  amendment  a  gradual  measure  of  abolition. 
His  amendment,  though  opposed  by  Fox,  was  carried  (April  2)  by  193  to 
125.  He  subsequently  (April  23)  moved  a  series  of  resolutions  to  effect  a 
gradual  abolition.  These  were  taken  up  by  Pitt,  and,  with  some  amend- 
ments, carried.  In  the  Lords  u  proposal  to  receive  evidence  on  the  subject 
was  carried  (May  8),  and  there  for  the  time  proceedings  stopped.  The  Bill 
for  tlie  general  abolition  of  the  slave  trade  received  the  royal  assent  in 
Marcl),  1807. 


1792.]  AN  ASYLUM  AT  BERNE.  295 

The  innocence  of  Captain  Kimber  ^  will  be  made  as  clear  as  will 
the  extreme  rascality  of  his  sm'geon  who  accuses.  Louisa  settled 
at  Bath  with  Aunt  about  the  middle  of  Febry.  It  was  the  best 
that  could  be  done.  Mrs.  Moss  set  out  this  day  for  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Geneva,  where  she  is  to  pass  the  summer.  She  carries  a 
letter  to  you  in  case  she  should  pass  thro'  Lausanne,  that  you 
might  show  such  attention  to  her  as  you  can  by  seKe,  Levade, 
or  De  Severy.  She  carries  also  14  of  your  letters  of  the  years 
77,  78,  79. 

588. 

Lord  Slieffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Downing  Street,  14  May,  1792. 

The  Plot  thickens.  Some  information  induces  me  to  think" 
that  Switzerland,  till  lately  the  happy  and  peaceful,  may  be  dis- 
quieted, especially  the  countries  bordering  on  France.  I  can 
conceive  it  possible  that  the  insane  discontents  of  the  Pais  de 
Vaud  may  render  Lausanne  not  altogether  an  eligible  and 
comfortable  residence  to  you.  We  hear  that  the  National  Guards 
have  assembled  on  the  borders  towards  Geneva  and  are  trying  to 
perform  some  manoeuvres.  I  can  suppose  it  reasonable  for  you 
to  think  of  this  Isle  sooner  than  you  intended, — that  the  border 
may  be  disquieted  and  travelling  for  such  an  unweildy  creature 
neither  commodious  nor  delightful.  It  is  possible  the  Borders 
may  be  less  tempting  for  Travellers  at  present  than  some  time 
hence.  In  such  case,  if  anything  like  turbulence  should  exist  at 
Lausanne,  Berne  may  afford  you  the  best  Asylum  till  the  journey 
to  old  England  may  be  safe  and  sure,  that  is  void  of  em- 
barrassments which  might  annoy  you,  altho'  they  might  appear 
only  curious  events  and  agreeable  Episodes  to  me  and  some  others. 
I  apprehend  that  a  journey  by  Germany,  unless  you  make  a  great 
detour,  would  be  troublesome. 

When  we  joked  last  Autumn  about  whiskers  and  Jacobins 

'  On  June  7,  1792,  Captain  John  Kimber  was  tried  at  the  Old  Bailey 
for  the  murder  of  a  negro  girl  on  board  the  Recovery.  He  was  acquitted, 
and  two  of  the  witnesses  for  the  prosecution  were  committed  for  trial  for 
perjury.  On  February  19,  1793,  Surgeon  Dowling,  the  principal  witness 
against  Kimber,  was  convicted  of  perjury.  The  charge  against  Kimber  was 
urged  by  WUberforce  in  his  speech  of  April  2,  1792. 


206  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

and  the  great  utility  of  books  for  making  cartrid;jes,  I  did  not 
think  you  so  near  disturbance  as  you  possibly  may  be.  The 
annihilation  of  your  books  might  be  a  proper  judgement  upon 
you  for  the  damned,  parson-minded,  inglorious  idea  of  leaving 
books  to  be  sold.  A  trumpery  fellow,  that  after  having  made  a 
good  collection  had  not  the  idea  of  keeping  them  together  by 
leaving  them  to  Sheffield  Place,  where  they  would  involve  the 
books  already  there,  and  the  whole  be  handed  down  seris  nepoUbua 
as  the  Gibbonian  Library  !  I  could  hardly  contain  my  indigna- 
tion when  you  mentioned  your  sniverling  notion.  I  have  often 
fully  and  duly  anathematized  you  since,  but  I  do  not  flatter 
myself  that  barbarism  is  as  yet  arrived  at  the  trouble  of  attacking 
the  Library  of  an  Aristocratc. 

You  will  discover  that  I  want  to  hear  of  you.  At  such  a  time 
a  few  lines  might  have  been  expected  even  from  you — or  anything 
ten  times  worse  than  you.  How  are  the  De  Severy's  ?  I  should 
have  attempted  to  make  amends  for  my  Lady's  neglect  of  writing, 
if  I  had  not  been  bothered  in  the  extreme.  I  wish  also  to  write  to 
Lcvade.  Is  Mrs.  Moss  arrived  ?  Altho'  the  new  French  art  of 
War  tends  to  enable  to  fight  another  day,  yet  it  is  to  be  hoped 
the  execrable  troops  will  not  take  that  trouble.  After  I  left  yon 
and  had  seen  those  warriors  in  Alsace,  &c.,  I  transmitted  my 
opinion  that  they  would  take  the  very  first  opportunity  of  run- 
ning away  and  murdering  their  officers.  Our  Associations  here 
have  now  received  a  good  brush.  Your  idea  of  signing  Declara- 
tions would  be  adopted  by  many,  if  there  was  not  an  appre- 
hension that  Democrates  would  represent  it  as  an  Aristocrate 
Association  against  the  People.  Youi"  Yorkshire  Mortgage  draws 
towards  a  conclusion.  I  have  had  an  excellent  letter  of  many 
pages  from  Lally  at  Paris  which  I  must  forthwith  answer. 

589. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausaime,  May  30tb,  1792. 

*After  the  receipt   of  your  imiultimate,  eight  days  ago,  I 

expected  with  much  impatience,  the  arrival  of  your  next-promised 

Epistle.      It  arrived    this    morning,   but    has    not    compleatly 

answered  my  expectation?.     I  wanted,  and  I  iioped  for  a  full  and 


17t»2.]  DEMOCRATIC  PROGRESS  IN   ENGLAND.  297 

fair  picture  of  the  present  and  probable  aspect  of  your  political 
World,  with  which,  at  this  distance,  I  seem  every  day  less  satisfied. 
lu  the  slave  question  you  triumphed  last  session ;  in  this  you  have 
been  defeated.  What  is  the  cause  of  this  alteration  ?  If  it  pro- 
ceeded only  from  an  impulse  of  humanity,  I  cannot  be  displeased, 
even  with  an  error  ;  since  it  is  very  likely  that  my  own  vote  (had 
I  possessed  one)  would  have  been  added  to  the  Majority.  But  in 
this  rage  against  slavery,  in  the  numerous  petitions  against  the 
Slave  trade,  was  there  no  leaven  of  new  democratical  principles  ? 
no  wild  ideas  of  the  rights  and  natural  equality  of  man  ?  It  is 
these  I  fear.  Some  articles  in  newspapers,  some  pamphlets  of  the 
year,  the  Jockey  Club,' — have  fallen  into  my  hands.  I  do  not 
infer  much  from  such  publications  ;  yet  I  have  never  known 
them  of  so  black  and  malignant  a  cast.  I  shuddered  at  Grey's 
motion,"  disliked  the  half-support  of  Fox,  admired  the  firmness  of 
Pitt's  declaration,  and  excused  the  usual  intemperance  of  Burke. 
Surely  such  men  as*  Grey,  Sheridan,  Erskine,  "have  talents  for 
mischief. 

I  see  a  Club  of  reform^  which  contains  some  respectable 
names.  Inform  me  of  the  professions,  the  principles,  the  plans, 
the  resources  of  these  reformers.  Will  they  heat  the  minds 
of  the  people  ?     Does  the  French  democracy  gain  no  ground  ? 

*  The  Joclcey  Club;  or,  A  Sketch  of  the  Maruiers  of  the  Age  (Parts  i.,  ii.,  iii.), 
by  Charles  Pigott,  is  an  attack  on  monarcliy  and  aristocracy,  a  defence  of 
the  French  Revolution,  and  an  appeal  to  Fox  to  use  Lis  influence  in  favour 
of  France  in  a  war  which  is  "  the  general  cause  of  all  human  nature.  It  is 
the  cause  of  sovereigns  and  certain  individuals  enjoying  exclusive  privileges 
to  the  injury  of  the  rest,  against  the  combined  immortal  cause  of  the  whole 
world." 

-  On  April  30,  1792,  Mr.  Grey,  in  consequence  of  a  resolution  adopted  by 
the  "  Friends  of  the  People,"  gave  notice  of  his  intention  to  move  for  an 
inquiry  into  the  representative  system.  On  this  notice  a  debate  followed. 
Grey  was  supported  by  Fox.  Pitt,  on  the  other  hand,  declared  that  if  ever 
tlicre  was  a  time  when  such  a  question  should  not  be  raised,  the  present  was 
that  time.  Burke  spoke  in  the  same  sense,  attacking  Paine's  Bights  of 
Man,  and  all  clubs  and  societies  which  recommended  the  principles  of  that 
work.  On  May  6,  1792,  Grey  presented  a  petition  from  the  "  Friends  of  the 
People,"  in  which  the  abuses  of  the  electoral  system  were  exposed,  and 
moved  that  it  be  referred  to  a  committee.  After  a  debate  of  two  nights,  he 
found  only  forty-one  supporters. 

*  Gibbon  probably  refers  to  the  "  Friends  of  the  People,"  an  association 
for  the  reform  of  the  representative  system,  to  which  Lord  Lauderdale,  Grey, 
iSlieridan,  Erskine,  and  twenty-five  other  members  of  Parliament  belonged. 


29S  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

Will  the  bulk  of  your  party  stand  firm  to  their  own  interest,  and 
that  of  their  country  ?  Will  you  not  take  some  active  measures 
to  declare  your  sound  opinions,  and  separate  yourselves  from  your 
rotten  members  ?  or  if  you  allow  them  to  perplex  government,  if 
you  trifle  with  this  solemn  business,  if  you  do  not  resist  the  spirit 
of  innovation  in  the  first  attempt,  if  you  admit  the  smallest 
and  most  specious  chanj^^e  in  our  parliamentary  system,  you 
are  lost.  You  will  be  driven  from  one  step  to  another ;  from 
principles  just  in  theory,  to  consequences  most  pernicious  in 
practice ;  and  your  first  concessions  will  be  productive  of  every 
subsequent  mischief,^  for  which  you  will  be  answerable  to 
your  country  and  to  posterity.  Do  not  suffer  yourselves  to  be 
lulled  into  a  false  security  ;  remember  the  proud  fabric  of  the 
French  Monarchy.  Not  four  years  ago  it  stood  founded,  as  it 
might  seem,  on  the  rock  of  time,  force,  and  opinion,  supported  by 
the  triple  Aristocracy  of  the  Church,  the  Nobility,  and  the  Par- 
liaments. They  are  crumbled  into  dust ;  they  are  vanished  from 
the  earth.  If  this  tremendous  warning  has  no  effect  on  the  men 
of  property  in  England  ;  if  it  does  not  open  every  eye,  and  raise 
every  arm,  you  will  deserve  your  fate.  If  I  am  too  precipitate, 
enlighten  ;  if  I  am  too  desponding,  encourage  me. 

My  pen  has  run  into  this  argument ;  for,  as  much  a  foreigner 
as  you  think  me,  on  this  momentous  subject  I  feel  myself  an 
Englishman, 

The  pleasm'c  of  residing  at  Sheffield-place  is,  after  all,  the  first 
and  the  ultimate  object  of  my  visit  to  my  native  country.  But 
when  or  how  will  that  visit  be  effected  ?  Clouds  and  whirlwinds, 
Austrian  Croats,  and  Gallic  cannibals,  seem  on  every  side  to 
impede  my  passage.  You  appear  to  apprehend  the  perils  or 
difficulties  of  the  German  road,  and  French  peace  is  more  san- 
guinary than  civilized  War.  I  must  pass  through,  perhaps,  a 
thousand  Republics  or  municipalities,  which  neither  obey  nor  are 
obeyed.  The  strictness  of  passports,  and  the  popular  ferment,  are 
much  encreased  since  last  summer  :  Aristocrate  is  in  every  mouth. 
Lanterns  hang  in  every  street,  and  an  hasty  word  or  a  casual 
resemblance,  may  be  fatal.  Yet,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  probable 
that  many  English,  men,  women,  and  children,  will  traverse  the 
country  without  any  accident  before  next  September  ;  and  I  am 
sensible  that  many  things  appear  more  formidable  at  a  distance 
than  on  a  nearer  approach.    Without  any  absolute  determination, 


1792.]         GALLIC  WOLVES  PROWL  ROUND  GENEVA.  299 

we  musfc  see  what  the  events  of  the  next  three  or  four  months 
will  produce.  In  the  mean  while,  I  shall  expect  with  impatience 
your  next  letter :  let  it  be  speedy  ;  my  answer  shall  be  prompt. 

You  will  be  glad,  or  sorry,  to  learn  that  my  gloomy  appre- 
hensions are  much  abated,  and  that  my  departure,  whenever  it 
takes  place,  will  be  an  act  of  choice,  rather  than  of  necessity.  I 
do  not  pretend  to  affirm,  that  secret  discontent,  dark  suspicion, 
private  animosity,  are  very  materially  asswaged  ;  but  we  have 
not  experienced,  nor  do  we  now  apprehend,  any  dangerous  acts 
of  violence,  which  may  compell  me  to  seek  a  refuge  among  the 
friendly  Bears,^  and  to  abandon  my  library  to  the  mercy  of  the 
Democrates.  The  firmness  and  vigour  of  Government  have 
crushed,  at  least  for  a  time,  the  spirit  of  innovation ;  and  I  do 
not  believe  that  the  body  of  the  people,  especially  the  Peasants,  are 
disposed  for  a  revolution.  From  France,  praised  be  the  Demon 
of  Anarchy  !  the  insurgents  of  the  pays  de  Vaud  could  not  at 
present  have  much  to  hope  ;  and  should  the  Gardes  rationales,  of 
which  there  is  little  appearance,  attempt  an  incursion,  the  country 
is  armed  and  prepared,  and  they  would  be  resisted  with  equal 
numbers  and  superior  discipline.  The  Gallic  wolves  that  prowled 
round  Geneva  are  drawn  away,  some  to  the  south  and  some  to  the 
north,  and  the  late  events  in  Flanders  seem  to  have  diffused  a 
general  contempt,  as  well  as  abhorrence,  for  the  lawless  savages, 
who  fly  before  the  enemy,  hang  their  prisoners,  and  murder  their 
officers."  The  brave  and  patient  regiment  of  Ernest  is  expected 
home  every  day,  and  as  Bern  will  take  them  into  present  pay,  that 
veteran  and  regular  corps  will  add  to  the  security  of  our  frontier. 

1  re  Joyce  that  we  have  so  little  to  say  on  that  subject  of 
Worldly  affairs.*  Since  the  interest  of  the  Yorkshire  is  due  from 
the  month  of  February  my  complaints  are  silenced,  but  I  am 
desirous  of  the  consummation  of  the  business.  You  seem  to 
applaud  your  good  fortune  in  finding  an  excellent  settlement  for 
£3000,  with  which  you  have  purchased  three  unexceptionable 
Debentures,  but  you  forget  to  mention  who  are  my  Creditors  and 
in  what  part  of  the  Globe  my  landed  seciu^ity  is  placed.     I  must 

'  Berne. 

2  Dumouriez,  in  April,  1792,  despatclietl  three  armies  to  invade  Belgium. 
The  column  directed  against  Tournay  dispersed,  and  murdered  Dillon,  their 
commander.  That  which  marched  against  Mons  fled  as  soon  as  they  came 
in  sight  of  the  Austrians  near  Jemappcs. 


300  GIBBON'S  COREESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

confess  some  fears  of  Ireland  or  the  West  Indies,  with  neither  of 
which  I  would  willingly  have  any  connection.  As  my  property  is 
now  divided,  I  should  much  wish  that  you  would  draw  up  and 
sign  a  regular  statement  of  the  several  objects,  stating  in  whose 
hands  and  where  the  respective  title  deeds  are  deposited.  With 
regard  to  those  which  are  entrusted  ^  it  could  not  surely  be 

offensive  to  ask  him  for  a  written  acknowledgment.  I  have  no 
evidence  whatsoever  to  produce  to  his  Executors ;  this  thought 
sometimes  makes  me  rather  uneasy.  I  thank  you  for  the  offer 
of  supporting  my  Credit  at  Gosling's  ;  but  the  stream  now  begins 
to  flow  faster  than  I  draw,  and  they  have  been  instructed  to  keep 
£500  India  bonds  from  your  talons.  Notwithstanding  the 
Darrel's  caution,  I  wish  you  had  seized  the  propitious  moment 
when  stocks  were  so  ridiculously  high.  I  am  much  surprized  to 
have  no  account  whatsoever  of  the  approach  of  my  Madeira, 
which  has  been  so  injudiciously  paid  for  beforehand  ;  enquiries 
nnist  be  made.  Will  you  likewise  inform  yourself  of  the  Wedge- 
wood,  why  I  have  not  been  able  to  obtain  their  old  account 
which  was  solicited  by  letter,  a  strong  measure  from  me,  when  I 
paid  Severy's  bill  two  or  three  years  ago  ?  If  they  have  waited 
scandalously  for  their  money,  it  is  not  my  fault ;  but  I  do  not 
like  it  myself,  as  it  is  the  only  debt  I  have  in  the  World. 
Mrs.  Moss  saw  my  house  and  garden  in  a  rainy  day,  and  her 
passage  was  so  rapid  that  I  could  not  even  give  her  a  dish  of  tea  : 
she  seems  pleased  with  her  situation  at  Geneva. 

*This  summer  we  are  threatened  with  an  inundation,  besides 
many  nameless  English  and  Irish  ;  the  Dowager  Lady  Spencer 
is  aiTived,  the  Dutchess  of  Ancaster  is  expected,  but  I  am  less 
anxious  about  those  matrons,  than  for  the  good  Dutchess  of 
Devonshire  and  the  wicked  Lady  Elizabeth  Foster,  who  are  on 
their  march.  Lord  Malmsbury,  the  audadeux  Harris,"  will  inform 
you  that  he  has  seen  me  :  him  I  would  have  consented  to  keep.* 

Before  I  absolutely  conclude,  I  must  animadvert  on  the 
whimsical  peroration  of  your  last  Epistle  concerning  the  future 
fate  of  my  library,"'  about  which  you  are  so  indignant.     I  am  a 

•  Name  erased. 

*  "  Get  audacieux  et  ruse  Harris  "  is  the  phrase  used  by  Mirabeau  of  Lord 
Malmesbury  {Cour  de  Berlin,  Lettre  xxxvii.,  vol.  ii.  p.  13). 

-  Gibbon's  library  at  Lausanue  was  bought,  in  1796,  from  Lord  Sheffield 
by  Leckfoid  for  £950.     Beckford  shut  himself  up  in  it  "for  six  weeks,  from 


1792.]  THE  DESTINY  OF  HIS  LIBRARY.  .'JOl 

friend  to  the  circulation  of  property  of  every  kind,  and  besides  the 
pecuniary  advantage  of  my  poor  heirs,  I  consider  a  public  pale  as 
the  mosb  laudable  method  of  disposing  of  it.  From  such  sales 
my  books  were  chiefly  collected,  and  when  I  can  no  longer  use 
them  they  will  be  again  culled  by  various  buyers  according  to  the 
measm-e  of  their  wants  and  means.  If  indeed  a  true  liberal  public 
library  existed  in  London,  I  might  be  tempted  to  enrich  the  cata- 
logue and  encourage  the  institution  :  but  to  bury  my  treasure  in 
a  country  mansion  under  the  key  of  a  jealous  master  !  I  am  not 
flattered  by  the  Gibbonian  collection,  and  shall  own  my  pre- 
sumptuous belief  that  six  quarto  Volumes  may  be  sufficient  for 
the  preservation  of  that  name.  If  however  your  unknown  suc- 
cessor should  be  a  man  of  learning,  if  I  should  live  to  see  the  love 

of  litterature  dawning  in  your  grandson In  the  meanwhile  I 

admire  the  firm  confidence  of  our  friendship  that  you  can  insist, 
and  I  can  demur,  on  a  legacy  of  fifteen  hundred  or  two  thousand 
pounds  without  the  smallest  fear  of  offence. 

*One  word  more  before  we  part ;  call  upon  Mr.  John  Nichols,' 
bookseller  and  printer,  at  Cicero's  head,  Red-Lion-passage,  Fleet- 
street,  and  ask  him  whether  he  did  not,  about  the  beginning  of 
March,  receive  a  very  polite  letter  ^  from  Mr.  Gibbon  of  Lausanne  ? 
To  which,  either  as  a  man  of  business  or  a  civil  Gentleman,  he 

early  in  the  morning  until  night,  only  now  and  then  taking  a  ride,"  and 
read  himself  "  nearly  blind  "  (Cyrus  Redding's  "  Recollections  of  the  Author 
of  Vathek,"  'New  Monthly  Magazine,  vol.  Ixxi.  p.  307).  Growing  tired  of 
it  he  gave  it  to  Dr.  SchoU,  a  physician  at  Lausanne.  Miss  Berry,  who 
visited  the  library  in  July,  1803  (Journals  and  Letters,  vol.  ii.  p.  260),  says, 
'•  It  is,  of  all  the  libraries  I  ever  saw,  that  of  which  I  should  most  covet  the 
possession — that  which  seems  exactly  everythiug  that  any  gentleman  or 
gentlewoman  fond  of  letters  could  wish."  "Gibbon's  library,"  says  Henry 
Mathews  in  1818  {Diary  of  an  Invalid,  p.  318),  "still  remains,  but  it  is 
buried  and  lost  to  the  world.  It  is  the  property  of  Mr.  Beckford,  and  lies 
locked  up  in  an  uninhabited  house  at  Lausanne."  In  1830  the  library  was 
divided  into  two  parts.  Half  was  sold  for  £500  to  an  English  gentleman  ; 
the  other  half  went  at  the  same  price  to  a  bookseller  at  Geneva.  The  half 
which  was  sold  to  an  Englisii  purchaser  was,  in  1876  (Notes  and  Queries^ 
5th  series,  vol.  v.  p.  425),  still  kept  together  in  the  possession  of  a  Swiss 
gentleman  near  Geneva. 

'  John  Nichols,  F.S.A.  (1745-1826),  the  author  of  numerous  works  of 
great  literary  and  historical  value,  and  from  1778  to  1826  printer,  proprietor, 
and,  from  1792,  sole  manager  of  the  Gentleman's  Magazine,  to  which  he 
constantly  contributed. 

*  The  letter  is  published  in  the  Gentleman' f  Magazine  for  January,  1794. 


302  GIBBON'S  COREESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

should  have  returned  an  answer.  My  application  related  to  a 
domestic  article  in  the  Gentleman's  magazine  of  August,  1788, 
(p.  G98,)^  which  had  lately  fallen  into  my  hands,  and  concerning 
which  I  requested  some  farther  lights.  Mrs.  Moss  delivered  the 
letters  into  my  hands,  but  I  doubt  whether  they  will  be  of  much 
service  to  me  ;  the  work  appears  far  more  difficult  in  the  execution 
than  in  the  idea,  and  as  I  am  now  taking  my  leave  for  some  time 
of  the  library,  I  shall  not  make  much  progress  in  the  memoirs  of 
P.  P.  till  I  am  on  English  "ground.  But  is  it  indeed  true,  that  I 
shall  eat  any  Sussex  pheasants  this  autumn  ?  The  event  is  in  the 
book  of  Fate,  and  I  cannot  unroll  the  leaves  of  September  and 
October.  Should  I  reach  Sheffield-place,  I  hope  to  find  the  whole 
family  in  a  perfect  state  of  existence,  except  a  certain  Maria 
Holroyd,  my  fair  and  generoiis  correspondent,  whose  annihilation 
on  proper  terms  I  most  fervently  desire.  I  must  receive  a  copious 
answer  before  the  end  of  next  month,  June,  and  again  call  upon 
you  for  a  map  of  your  political  World.  The  Chancellor  roars  ; 
does  he  break  his  chain  ?     ValeJ^' 


590. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihhon. 

Your  former  letter  said  you  should  be  very  sure,  very  high 
&  select.  You  now  say  you  are  not  merchants,  &c.  General 
Bude^  (a  Genevois)  recommended  Dergueuse.  The  Duke  of 
Leeds,  hearing  that  he  was  known  to  me,  desired  Glover  to 
enquire  of  me  by  letter.  I  advised  Leigneur  not  to  propose  or 
trouble  himself  about  terms,  but  to  let  General  Bude  do  whatever 

*  The  letter  referred  to  in  the  Gentleman's  Magazine  is  signed  "  N.  S." 
It  gives  the  Gibbon  pedigree  from  1596  down  to  the  historian.  It  no  doubt 
at  first  attracted  Gibbon's  attention  from  the  circumstance  of  its  immediately 
preceding  a  communication  entitled  "Strictures  on  Some  Passages  in  Mr. 
Gibbon's  History."  The  article  in  the  Gentleman's  Magazine  was  by  Sir 
Egerton  Brydges,  whose  grandmother  was  a  Gibbon,  the  heiress  of  Edward 
Gibbon  of  West  Cliff,  and  first  cousin  to  the  South  Sea  director  who  was 
the  historian's  grandfather.  Gibbon's  letter  on  the  subject  to  Sir  Egerton 
Brydges  is  quoted  by  the  latter  in  his  Autobiography  (vol.  i.  pp.  225-227). 

^  Probably  General  Bude,  who  is  mentioned  by  Madame  d'Arblay  as 
Jiolding  an  appointment  about  the  court  at  Windsor  QDiary  and  Letters, 
iii.  40). 


1792.]  GIBBON'S   TABBY  APPREHENSIONS.  303 

was  necessary  of  that  kind.  He  has  been  at  Moins  sometime. 
He  came  from  tlience  here,  and  is  much  pleased  with  his  good 
fortnne.  Lord  Carnarvon  is  older  than  we  imagined.  If  there 
are  the  means  at  Lausanne  of  interesting  Genl.  Bude  in  favour 
of  S[every],  it  might  be  usefull.  I  should  make  an  agreement 
for  S.  or  not  according  to  the  rank  or  character  of  the  Principles  ; 
but  I  really  do  not  know  what  salary  should  be  thought  of — ^you 
should  give  me  some  hint  thereon.  When  I  answered  Glover,  I 
told  him  if  he  should  hear  of  any  considerable  Family  who  wished 
to  have  a  friend  to  attend  a  son,  that  you  and  I  could  recommend 
one  that  would  be  very  desireable.  You  are  so  awkward  and 
careless  about  letters  that  I  do  not  like  to  write  to  you  except 
about  matters  that  might  be  published  at  Charing-cross. 

As  to  your  £3000  debentures,  I  apprehend  I  have  explained 
them  to  you  before.  Hammersley's  Banking  House  has  advanced 
£40,000  on  Lord  Barrymore's  Estate  in  Ireland  (£10,000  per 
annum  at  least)  ;  they  have  6  per  cent.,  and  have  raised  the 
money  by  Debentures,  giving  the  same  security  and  £20,000  in 
the  funds  in  addition.  Their  house  and  the  £20,000  answerable 
for  the  interest.  It  is  thought  an  excellent  thing,  and  Pelham 
transferred  it  to  me  as  a  Friend.  If  you  do  not  like  it  at  any 
time  you  may  have  premium  on  selling.  I  wish  you  to  indulge 
your  own  notions  as  to  this  matter  and  not  to  mind  mine.  I  am 
not  fond  of  being  responsible  as  to  other  property  than  land. 
The  Debentures  are  in  the  custody  of  Goslings,  to  enable  them  to 
receive  at  Hammersley's  the  interest  half  yearly. 

Your  Tabby  apprehensions  about  your  writings  are  silly  enough 
— you  have  none  except  the  mortgage  on  Buriton  and  Newhaven, 
and  those  being  blended  in  your  conveyance  of  the  Estates,  the 
Title  of  the  purchaser  and  your  security  are  the  same,  and  if  your 
counterpart  were  lost,  the  Title  of  the  Purchaser  would  be  your 
security.  The  Mortgage  Deeds  of  Buriton  are  in  my  archive,  very 
properly  as  Trustee.  Instead  of  your  curious  notion  of  sending 
the  writings  in  Batt's  custody  for  the  sake  of  safety  to  Lausanne, 
it  will  be  better  to  send  them  in  their  Box  to  Gosling's  Iron-room, 
to  appease  your  fears.  I  had  settled  with  Batt  to  examine  the 
List  when  I  go  next  to  Town.  Your  Navigation  Mortgage  is  in 
Gosling's  hands.  I  had  lately  heard  of  a  £3000  mortgage  in 
this  county  that  I  thought  would  do,  but  they  talked  of  only  3-| 
per  Ct. 


30i  GIBBON'S  COERESPONDENCE.  [1702. 

I  have  had  a  new  care  lately  which  has  occupied  me  as  much 
as  possible.  I  mean  the  French  clergy  ;  above  1200  have  landed 
in  this  country.  I  have  exerted  myself  in  their  favour ;  I  have 
succeeded  pretty  well  in  obviating  prejudice  in  respect  to  the  rise 
of  provisions  by  the  arrival  of  so  many  friends.  There  is  little 
in  respect  to  the  arrival  of  so  many  popish  priests. 

Tell  Lady  Eliza  I  have  written  a  very  pretty  letter  long  ago, 
&  I  am  surprised  she  has  not  received  it. 


591. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihhon. 

Sheffield  Place,  30  July,  1792. 

If  I  had  not  been  bothered  in  a  superlative  degree  since  my 
return  from  London  with  much  company,  Navigation  and  County 
Meetings,  &c.,  I  should  have  favoured  you  with  my  opinion  on 
the  state  of  things.  Twice  each  week  I  intended  so  to  do  at 
some  length,  and  now  I  begin  just  before  I  set  out  for  the  Camp 
at  Bagshot.^ 

I  have  watched  the  origin,  impression  and  progress  of  tho 
French  Revolution,  both  in  France  and  in  the  other  Governments 
in  Europe,  and  1  am  fully  convinced  that  if  our  Good  Old  Island 
had  been  drawn  into  the  torrent  of  the  new  Philosophy,  Holland, 
Germany,  Spain,  &c.,  would  have  followed  her,  and  Ave  should 
have  seen  all  Europe  involved  in  the  extravagances  of  irreligion, 
immorality,  anarchy,  and  barbarism.  Our  nature  being  at  ail 
times  essentially  the  same,  I  presume  that  after  a  certain  period 
of  ferociousness  and  horrors,  a  resettlement  of  some  sort,  probably 
of  the  most  despotic  governments,  would  have  taken  place.  The 
devastation  of  the  Species  might  be  repaired,  and  at  the  end  of  a 
couple  of  centuries  it  is  possible  that  Science,  the  fine  Arts,  and 
the  politeness  and  gentleness  of  Society,  might  again  have  been 
brought  to  the  point  at  which  they  now  are.  Perhaps  you  may 
recollect  that  on  the  DecUne  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Empire  a 
greater  number  of  centuries  were  necessary  for  restoration.  I 
really  believe  there  is  nothing  exaggerated  in  this  speculation. 

'  A  large  number  of  troops  were  assembled  at  Bagshot  Camp  on  July  23, 
and  were  reviewed  by  the  king  on  July  26,  and  engaged  in  sham-fights  on 
July  27,  30,  31. 


1792.]  OPPOSITION  AND  GOVERNMENT.  305 

Having  these  opinions,  I  highly  approved  and  cordially  pro- 
moted the  conduct  of  Opposition  at  such  a  crisis.  They  have  como 
to  the  Aid  of  Government  fairly  and  unreservedly,  and  many,  even 
zealously,  particularly  the  Dukes  of  Portland,  Devonshire,  Lord 
Fitzwilliam,  Guilford,  Spencer,  Egrcuiont,  Ashburuham,  Stormont, 
Loughborough,  Windham  of  Norfolk,  Sir  Gilbert  Elliott,  in  short 
almost  everybody  except  about  a  score  who  had  committed  them- 
selves with  Mr.  Grey,  many  of  whom  are  heartily  sick  of  the 
business.^  The  attempt  at  an  Association  has  in  truth  had  an 
excellent  effect.  It  has  alarmed,  roused  and  combined  men  in 
support  of  the  Constitution  and  of  good  order.  It  will  at  last 
appear  that  there  exists  no  great  object  or  principle  of  party 
difference.  It  may  lead  to  the  formation  of  the  strongest  ad- 
ministration this  country  has  ever  known,  and  at  a  time  when 
there  should  be  no  risk.  It  should  be  the  first  of  all  objects  in 
these  feverish  times  to  guard  against  all  possibility  of  phrenzy. 
At  present  there  is  very  little  amiss  among  men  of  property. 
The  Dissenters  however  wait  a  good  occasion  for  some  change." 

*  On  May  21,  1792,  the  king  issued  a  proclamation  against  tumultuous 
meetings  and  seditious  writings.  Both  Houses  concurred  in  an  address  of 
thanks  to  the  king  for  the  proclamation  (June  1).  The  question  divided  the 
Whig  party,  the  majority  of  which  from  this  time  supported  Pitt.  Fox  for 
the  next  few  years  scarcely  mustered  fifty  followers. 

*  Lord  Sheffield  expressed  an  opinion  which  at  the  lime  was  common. 
The  sympathy  which  was  avowed  by  leading  Nonconformists  with  some  of 
the  objects  of  the  Revolution  was  not  unnaturally  misinterpreted  at  a  period 
of  public  excitement.  Dr.  Price  was  chairman  of  the  Revolution  Society, 
which  corresponded  with  various  societies  in  France.  Their  correspondence 
with  French  clubs  was  published  in  1792  ;  but  it  is  significant  that  the  letters 
on  the  king's  escape  and  subsequent  arrest,  sent  to  the  Jacobin  Club  in  1791, 
the  existence  of  which  was  revealed  by  the  answer  of  the  Jacobins,  were 
omitted  from  the  publication.  Dr.  Priestley,  subsequently  elected  to  the 
National  Convention,  presided  at  the  meeting  of  the  Unitarian  Society  at  the 
King's  Head  Tavern,  in  February,  1791,  when,  among  other  toasts,  "Thomas 
Paine  and  the  Rights  of  Man,"  and  "  The  National  Assembly  of  France,  and 
may  every  tyrannical  government  undergo  a  similar  revolution,"  were  drunk 
with  enthusiasm.  Such  distinguished  Nonconformists  as  Dr.  Kippis,  Dr. 
Rees,  and  Dr.  Towers  were  also  prominent  members  of  these  or  similar 
societies.  The  Society  of  Constitutional  Whigs,  who  addressed  the  National 
Assembly  in  the  autumn  of  1792,  declaring  that,  if  any  attempt  were  made 
to  enslave  the  Frencli  people,  they  would  die  in  their  defence,  also  api^ealed 
to  Dissenters.  In  A  Feio  Queries  io  the  Methodists  in  General  occurs  the 
following : — "  Query :  Does  not  both  reason  and  revelation  teach  us,  that  in 
order  to  lay  the  axe  at  the  root  of  the  tree  of  wickedness,  we  must  begin  with 
kings  and  princes,  and  bishops  and  priests  ?  " 

VOL.  II.  X 


306  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE,  [1702. 

The  great  care  should  be  to  prevent  the  mass  of  the  people  from 
being  inflamed  and  made  the  tools  of  those  who  would  risk  any- 
thing to  gain  certain  points  or  situations.  It  is  essential  to 
engage,  to  occupy  the  best  of  those. 

There  never  was  such  an  opportunity  as  at  present  of  forming 
a  good  administration.  Several  openings  can  be  easily  made  in 
the  Cabinet  and  elsewhere  without  essential  derangement.  Lord 
Thurlow  is  gone,^  Lord  Campden  wishes  to  go,  Marquis  of  Stafford 
is  willing  to  go,  and  Dundas  is  only  locum  tenens.^  The  con- 
currence in  favour  of  the  Constitution  has  greatly  softened  the 
asperity  of  party.  I  never  observed  so  great  a  change,  and  I  am 
convinced  a  junction  would  be  generally  liked  by  the  respectable 
men  of  all  parties  and  descriptions. 

There  is  a  difficulty  and  that  is  great.  Whether  insur- 
mountable I  cannot  say.  How  to  arrange  Pompey  and  Caesar 
— Pitt  and  Fox.  Government  has  candidly  said  it  is  not  strong- 
enough,  the  candour  of  the  avowal  has  tended  rather  to  con- 
ciliate than  to  animate  opposition.  Lord  Loughborough  has 
had  a  conversation  with  Pitt  and  Dundas.^  I  scout  the  idea  of 
the  Party  coming  in  without  Fox.  He  has  behaved,  at  all  times, 
honourably  to  them  and  they  will  behave  honourably  towards 
him.  Even  if  they  were  capable  of  quitting  him,  it  would  be 
foolish  to  leave  him  to  bear  the  discontent  of  the  country. 
Xeither  Fox  nor  Pitt  should  be  suffered  to  be  in  that  situation. 

*  Lord  Chancellor  Thurlow,  whose  influence  with  the  king  was  inunense, 
and  whose  intrigues  with  Fox  at  the  time  of  the  Regency  Bill  were  well 
known,  opposed  Pitt's  Sinking  Fund  and  the  Bill  for  the  encouragement  of 
the  growth  of  timber  in  the  New  Forest,  and  denounced  his  colleagues  as 
traitors  to  the  interest  of  their  sovereign.  He  was  dismissed  from  the  Lord 
Chancellorship  in  June,  1792. 

-  The  actual  fusion  of  parties  did  not  take  place  till  July,  1794,  when 
Lord  Camden  had  died  and  Lord  Stafford  retired,  and  Dundas,  retaining 
the  Colonies,  resigned  the  Secretaryship  at  War  to  Windham.  It  was 
delayed  by  the  indecision  of  the  Duke  of  Portland,  of  whom  Lady  Malmes- 
bury  said,  "  The  Duke  of  Portland  is  our  Duke  of  Brunswick — no  party  will 
be  led  to  victory  by  either"  {Life  and  Letters  of  Sir  G.  Elliot,  vol.  ii.  p.  72). 

'  Lord  Loughborough,  Lord  Malmesbury,  the  Duke  of  Portland,  and 
Dundas  attempted  to  effect  a  coalition  between  Pitt  and  Fox  in  the  summer 
and  autumn  of  1792.  The  negotiations  failed.  "  Fox,"  says  Lord  Malmes- 
bury (July  30, 1792),  "  made  Pitt's  quitting  the  Treasury  a  sine  qua  non,  and 
was  so  opinionative  and  fixed  about  it,  that  it  was  impossible  even  to  reason 
with  him  on  the  subject."  "You  see  how  it  is,"  said  Burke;  "Mr.  Fox's 
coach  stops  the  way." 


1792.]  CAN  riTT  AND  FOX  COMBINE?  307 

Even  if  the  King  were  to  send  for  the  Dnke  of  Portland  and 
desire  him  to  form  an  administration,  the  best  answer  would  be 
that  he  could  not,  without  Mr,  Pitt,  form  one  which  would  be 
sufficiently  firm  and  strong  enough  to  carry  on  business  as  it 
should  be,  especially  at  this  time.     IJoth  parties  are  too  strong 
to  suffer  Government  to  go  on  efficaciously  without  them  :  but 
how  to  arrange  Fox  &  Pitt,  so  that  one  should  not  seem  to  yield 
too  much  to  the  other,  there  is  the  rub.     I  should  think  it  the 
most  patriotick  act  to  settle  that  matter.    I  discover  no  animosity, 
no  rancour,  no  interest  likely  to  make  the  parties  disagree  if 
once  united,  nothing  that  would  dispose  them  to  circumvent.    I 
think  it  the  interest  of  both  our  Orators  to  unite.     I  never 
supposed  I  should  find  it  the  wish  of  so  many  of  the  first  men 
of  the  Country  as  I  do.     It  appears  to  me  to  be  greatly  Pitt's 
interest.    The  regret  of  both  King  and  Queen  on  the  dismission 
of  the  Chancellor  is  well  known.      If    Pitt  should  make  an 
handsome  fair  offer  to  Fox  (I  do  not  know  the  latter  is  averse) 
and  he  should  refuse,  especially  after  the  late  business  of  Grey, 
it  will   prejudice  Fox  much  with  his  party.      If,  on  the  other 
hand,  Pitt  should  directly  or  indirectly  aim  at  excluding  him,  the 
overture  that  has  been  made  and  the  evident  want  of  strength 
in  Government  would  exasperate  some,  and  encourage  others  to 
a  redoubled  spirit  of  opposition.     Pitt  must  see  that,  if  such  an 
administration  could  be  formed,  there  would  be  scarce  a  great 
family  in  opposition,  and  that  distinction  of  party  in  that  ad- 
ministration would  soon   be  lost.      Although  the  business  is- 
difficult  I  do  not  think  it  impossible.     It  is  rather  suspended 
than  broke  off.     I  should  have  supposed  the  Duke  of  Eichmond 
most  likely  of  all  to  be  averse  to  it,  but  I  find  him  much  disposed 
to  a  junction. 

Maria  amuses  herseK  very  much  with  my  conciliating  and 
amiable  moderation,  but  you  will  discover  that  my  present  dis- 
position is  perfectly  consistent  with  the  opinion  I  always  had  of 
the  advantage  to  the  Country  at  all  times,  and  the  necessity  in 
these  times,  of  a  firm  and  strong  Government. 

I  have  now  inflicted  on  you  and  myself  a  large  dose. 

Give  us  intelligence  of  you  forthwith.  When  you  set  out. 
Which  road  you  take.  The  French  subject  is  too  much  to  begin 
on.  The  Jacobins  are  au  comble.  Such  execrable  animals  should 
be  extirpated. 


o08  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

Pray  acquaint  Lady  Elizabeth  that  I  have  this  moment  rec*. 
her  letter,  that  we  wished  it  had  been  longer,  and  that  I  shall 
endeavour  to  collect  something  for  her  amusement  very  speedily. 
Present  my  best  compliments  also  to  the  Duchess. 


592. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Lausanne,  August  1st,  1792. 

My  deaeest  Friend, 

Notwithstanding  all  the  arts  of  our  great  Enemy,  the 
Demon  of  procrastination,  I  should  not  have  postponed  for  so 
many  months  a  pleasing  duty,  which  may  at  any  time  be  per- 
formed in  a  single  hour,  had  I  not  for  some  time  past  entertained 
a  lively  and  probable  hope  of  visiting  you  this  autumn  in  person  ; 
had  I  not  flattered  myself,  that  the  very  next  post  I  might  be 
able  to  fix  the  day  of  my  departure  from  Lausanne,  and  almost 
of  my  arrival  at  the  Belvidere.  That  hope  is  now  vanished,  and 
my  journey  to  England  is  unavoidably  delayed  till  the  spring  or 
summer  of  next  year.  *The  extraordinary  state  of  public  affairs 
in  France  opposes  an  insuperable  bar  to  my  passage  ;  and  every 
prudent  stranger  will  avoid  that  inhospitable  land,  in  which  a 
people  of  slaves  is  suddenly  become  a  nation  of  tyrants  and 
cannibals.  The  German  road  is  indeed  safe,  but,  independent 
of  a  great  addition  of  fatigue  and  expence,  the  armies  of  Austria 
and  Prussia  now  cover  that  frontier ;  and  though  the  Generals 
are  polite,  and  the  troops  well  disciplined,  I  am  not  desirous  of 
passing  through  the  Clouds  of  Hussars  and  Pandours  that  attend 
their  motions.  These  public  reasons  are  fortified  by  some  private 
motives,  and  to  this  delay  I  resign  myself  with  a  sigh  for  the 
present,  and  a  hope  for  the  future. 

What  a  strange  wild  World  do  we  live  in  !  You  will  allow 
me  to  be  a  tolerable  historian,  yet,  on  a  fair  review  of  ancient 
and  modem  times,  I  can  find  none  that  bear  any  affinity  with 
the  present.  My  knowledge  of  your  discerning  mind,  and  my 
recollection  of  your  political  principles,  assure  me,  that  you  are 
no  more  a  Democrat  than  myself.  Had  the  French  improved 
their  glorious  opportunity  to  erect  a  free  constitutional  Monarchy 


1792]  TAINT  OF  DEMOCRATICAL  INFECTION.  30fi 

on  the  ruins  of  arbitrary  power  and  the  Bastile,  I  should  applaud 
their  generous  effort ;  but  this  total  subversion  of  all  rank,  order, 
and  government,  could  be  productive  only  of  a  popiTlar  monster, 
which  after  devouring  every  thing  else,  must  finally  devour  itself. 
1  was  once  apprehensive  that  this  monster  would  propagate  some 
imps  in  our  happy  island,  but  they  seem  to  have  been  crushed  in 
the  cradle  ;  and  I  acknowledge  with  pleasure  and  pride  the  good 
sense  of  the  English  nation,  who  seem  truly  conscious  of  the 
blessings  which  they  enjoy  :  and  I  am  happy  to  find  that  the 
most  respectable  part  of  opposition  has  cordially  joyned  in 
the  support  of  "  things  as  they  are."  Even  this  country  has 
been  somewhat  tainted  with  the  Democratical  infection  :  the 
vigilance  of  Government  has  been  exerted,  the  malecontents  have 
been  awed,  the  misguided  have  been  undeceived,  the  feaver  in 
the  blood  has  gradually  subsided,  and  I  flatter  myself  that  we 
have  secured  the  tranquil  enjoyment  of  obscure  felicity,  which 
we  had  been  almost  tempted  to  despise. 

You  have  heard,  most  probably,  from  Mrs.  Holroyd,  of  the 
long-expected  though  transient  satisfaction  which  I  received  from 
the  visit  of  the  Sheflield  family.  He  appeared  highly  satisfied 
with  my  arrangements  here,  my  house,  garden,  and  situation,  at 
once  in  town  and  country,  which  are  indeed  singular  in  their 
kind,  and  which  have  often  made  me  regret  the  impossibility  of 
showing  them  to  my  dearest  friend  of  the  Belvidere.  Lord  S. 
is  still,  and  will  ever  continue,  the  same  active  being,  always 
employed  for  himself,  his  friends,  and  the  public,  and  always 
persuading  himself  that  he  wishes  for  leisure  and  repose.*  He  has 
now  a  new  care  on  his  hands,  the  management  and  disposal  of 
his  eldest  daughter,  who  is  indeed  a  most  extraordinary  young 
woman.  *There  are  various  roads  to  happiness ;  but  when  I 
compare  his  situation  with  mine,  I  do  not,  upon  the  whole, 
repent  that  I  have  given  the  preference  to  a  life  of  celibacy  and 
retirement.  Although  I  have  been  long  a  spectator  of  the  great 
World,  my  unambitious  temper  has  been  content  with  the  occupa- 
tions and  rewards  of  study  ;  and  although  my  library  be  still  my 
favourite  room,  I  am  now  no  longer  stimulated  by  the  prosecu- 
tion of  any  litterary  work.  The  society  of  Lausanne  is  adapted 
to  my  taste  ;  my  house  is  open  to  many  agreeable  acquaintance, 
and  some  real  friends  ;  the  uniformity  of  the  natives  is  enlivened 
by  travellers  of  all  nations  ;  and  this  summer  I  am  happy  in  a 


310  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

familiar  intercourse  with  Lady  Spencer,  the  Dutchess  of  Devon- 
shire, Lady  Elizabeth  Foster,  and  Lady  Duncannon,  who  seems 
to  be  gradually  recovering  from  her  dreadful  complaints.  My 
health  is  remarkably  good.  I  have  now  enjoyed  a  long  interval 
from  the  gout ;  and  I  endeavour  to  use  with  moderation  Dr. 
Cadogan's  best  remedies,  temperance,  exercise,  and  cheerfulness. 
Adieu,  Dear  Madam ;  may  every  blessing  that  Nature  can  allow 
be  attendant  on  your  latter  season !  Your  age  and  my  habits 
will  not  permit  a  very  close  correspondence  ;  but  I  wish  to  hear, 
and  I  presume  to  ask,  a  speedy  direct  account  of  your  own  situa- 
tion. May  it  be  such  as  I  shall  hear  with  pleasure  !  Once  more 
Adieu ;  I  live  in  hopes  of  embracing  you  next  summer  at  the 
Belvidere,  but  you  may  be  assured  that  I  bring  over  nothing  for 
the  press.* 

593. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  August  23rd,  1792. 
*When  I  inform  you  that  the  design  of  my  English  expedition 
is  at  last  postponed  to  another  year,  you  will  not  be  much  sur- 
prized.   The  public  obstacles,  the  danger  of  one  road,  and  the 
difficulties  of  another,  would  alone  be  sufficient  to  arrest  so  un- 
wieldy and  inactive  a  Being  ;  and  these  obstacles  on  the  side  of 
France,  are  growing  every  day  more  insuperable.     On  the  other 
hand,  the  terrors,  which  might  have  driven  me  from  hence,  have 
in  a  great  measure,  subsided  ;  our  state  prisoners  are  forgot  ;  the 
country  begins  to  recover  its  old  good  humour  and  unsuspecting 
confidence,  and  the  last  revolution  of  Paris  appears  to  have  con- 
vinced almost  every  body  of  the  fatal  consequences  of  Demo- 
cratical  principles,  which  lead  by  a  path  of  flowers  into  the  Abyss 
of  Hell.     I  may  therefore  wait  Avith  patience  and  tranquilUty  till 
the  Duke  of  Brunswick  shall  have  opened  the  French  road.     But 
if  I  am  not  driven  from  Lausanne,  you  will  ask,  I  hope  with  some 
indignation,  whether  I  am  not  drawn   to  England,  and  more 
especially  to  Sheffield-place  ?     The  desire  of  embracing  you  and 
yours  is  now  the  strongest,  and  must  gradually  become  the  sole, 
inducement  that  can  force  me  from  my  library  and  garden,  over 
seas  and  mountains.      The  English  World  will  forget  and  be 
forgotten,  and  every  year  will  deprive  me  of  some  acquaintance, 


1792.]  BRUNSWICK  MARCHES  ON  PARIS.  311 

who  by  courtesy  are  styled  friends  :  Lord  Guilford^  and  Sir  Joshua 
Keyuolds  !  ^  two  of  the  men,  and  two  of  the  houses  in  London,  on 
whom  I  the  most  relied  for  the  comforts  of  society."' 

Even  the  satisfaction  which  I  promised  myself  at  Sheffield 

would  at  present  be 

September  12tli,  1792. 

"""Thus  far  had  I  written  in  the  full  confidence  of  finishing  and 
sending  my  letter  the  next  post ;  but  six  post-days  have  unaccount- 
ably slipped  away,  and  were  you  not  accustomed  to  my  silence,  you 
would  almost  begin  to  think  me  on  the  road.  How  dreadfully, 
since  my  last  date,  has  the  French  road  been  polluted  with  blood  ! 
and  what  horrid  scenes  may  be  acting  at  this  moment,  and  may  still 
be  aggravated,  till  the  Duke  of  Brunswick^'  is  master  of  Paris  !  On 
every  rational  principle  of  calculation  he  must  succeed  ;  yet  some- 
times, when  my  spirits  are  low,  I  dread  the  blind  efforts  of  mad 
and  desperate  multitudes  fighting  on  their  own  ground.  A  few 
days  or  weeks  must  decide  the  military  operations  of  this  year,  and 
perhaps  for  ever ;  but  on  the  fairest  supposition,  I  cannot  look 
forwards  to  any  firm  settlement,  either  of  a  legal  or  an  absolute 
government.  I  cannot  pretend  to  give  you  any  Paris  news. 
Should  I  inform  you,  as  we  believe,  that  Lcdhj  ^  is  still  among  the 
cannibals,  you  would  possibly  answer,  that  he  is  now  sitting  in 
the  library  at  Sheffield.      Madame  de  Stael,^  after  miraculously 

'  Lord  Guilford,  better  known  as  Lord  North,  died  August  5,  1792. 

*  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  died  February  23,  1792. 

*  The  Duke  of  Brunswick,  as  commander-in-chief  of  the  combined  armies 
of  Austria  and  Prussia,  issued  his  manifesto  on  July  25,  1792,  before  crossing 
the  French  frontier  and  directing  his  march  on  Paris. 

*  Lally  left  France  for  Switzerland  after  October,  1789,  and  thence 
passed  to  England.  Realizing  tlie  dangerous  position  of  the  king  and  royal 
family,  he  returned  to  Paris  in  May,  1792,  and  with  Bertrand-MoUeville, 
Malouet,  La  Fayette,  and  others,  endeavoured  to  effect  the  escape  of  the 
king  and  queen.  On  August  10,  1792,  he  was  arrested  and  imprisoned  in 
the  Abbaye.  On  August  22, 1792,  ten  days  before  the  September  massacres, 
the  French  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  informed  the  National  Assembly  that 
Lally  Tollendal  demanded  a  passport  for  England,  of  which  country  he  had 
become  a  naturalized  subject.  He  also  produced  a  letter  from  Lord  Gower 
claiming  Lally  as  a  British  subject.  According  to  Madame  de  Statil  he 
owed  liis  escape  to  Condorcet. 

^  Madame  de  Stael,  in  her  Considd'raiions  sur  la  li^vohdion  Frangaise 
(ed.  1818,  torn.  ii.  cb.  x.),  describes  her  appearance  before  Robespierre 
at  the  Hotel  de  Ville  in  the  Place  de  Greve,  and  attributes  her  escape,  ou 
September  2-3,  1792,  to  Manuel. 


312  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

escaping  through  pikes  and  poniards,  has  reached  the  castle  of 
Copet,  where  I  shall  see  her  before  the  end  of  the  week.  If  any 
thing  can  provoke  the  King  of  Sardinia  and  the  Swiss,  it  must 
be  the  foul  destruction  of  his  cousin  Madame  de  Lamballe, 
and  of  Iheir  regiment  of  guards.^  An  extraordinary  council  is 
summoned  at  Berne,  but  resentment  may  he  checked  hy  prudence. 
In  spite  of  Maria's  laughter,  I  applaud  your  moderation,  and  sigh 
for  a  hearty  union  of  all  the  sense  and  property  of  the  country. 
The  times  require  it  ;  but  your  last  political  letter  was  a  cordial 
to  my  spirits.  The  Duchess  of  D.  rather  dislikes  a  coalition  : 
amiable  creature  !  The  Eliza  (we  call  her  Bess)  is  furious  against 
you  for  not  writing.  We  shall  lose  them  in  a  few  days  ;  but  the 
motions  of  Bess  and  the  Duchess  for  Italy  or  England,  are  doubt- 
ful. Ladies  Spencer  and  Duncaunon  certainly  pass  the  Alps.  I 
live  with  them."' 

The  interesting  subjects  of  our  late  con-espondence  seem  to 
have  obliterated  all  memory  of  my  private  concerns,  which  have 
suffered  as  usual  a  rub  when  we  thought  them  finally  terminated. 
Although  my  ideas  about  money  matters  are  grown  somewhat 
confused,  I  do  not  believe  there  is  much  caput  mortuum  lef b,  and 
have  no  doubt  that  the  different  channels  of  interest  will  be 
properly  filled  at  Michaelmas,  but  I  should  be  glad  to  see  the 
greatest  part  of  my  decreasing  short  annuities  well  secured  in  a 
mortgage,  and  I  flatter  myself  that  yourself  and  agents  are  alive 
to  that  pursuit.  But  I  must  again  put  you  in  mind  of  two 
interesting  queries  to  which  I  have  not  yet  received  any  answer. 
1.  What  is  the  nature  of  the  three  thousand  pounds  debentures 
which  you  purchased  last  Winter  ?  AVho  is  my  debtor  ?  and  what 
and  where  is  my  security  ?  Surely  this  is  no  idle  curiosity  on  my 
side.  2.  I  wished  to  know  in  what  hands  the  different  deeds  of 
my  property  are  vested,  and  to  possess  something  like  a  written 
attestation.  The  Buriton  Mortgage  and  the  aforesaid  debentures 
are  very  properly,  as  I  suppose,  in  Lord  Sheffield's  iron  chest. 

*  Marie  Therese  de  Savoie-Carignan  married,  in  1767,  Louis  de  Bourbon- 
Penthievre,  Prince  de  Lamballe.  Slic  was  murdered  at  I^a  Force  in  the 
September  massacres  of  1792,  and  her  head,  raised  on  a  pike,  was  paraded 
before  the  windows  of  the  Temple  where  the  queen  was  confined.  The 
Swiss  Guard,  nearly  eight  hundred  in  number,  were  massacred  in  the  attack 
upon  the  Tuileries  on  August  10,  1792.  Of  the  few  who  escaped,  fifty- 
four  were  murdered  in  the  Abbaye  at  the  September  massacres.  Their  death 
is  commemorated  by  Thorwaldscn's  lion  at  Lucerne. 


1 


1792.]  EVERY   DAY   MORE   SEDENTARY.         •  313 

Fort  Men.  My  sliovt  annuities  in  their  own  books  and  in  Mr.  E. 
DaiTel's— 2?fl!.s  mal ,-  my  Sussex  Navigation  and  India  Bonds  with 
Gosling,  passe  encore :  bub  my  claims  on  you,  the  Newhaven 
Mortgage  and  the  Annuity  are  delivered — are  they  not,  to  Mr. 
Batt,  an  honourable  but  a  sickly  man  ?  Should  he  fail,  have  we 
any  to  exhibit  to  his  unknown  heir  ?  If  delicacy,  false  delicacy, 
forbids  your  asking  for  a  receipt,  or  taking  them,  which  I  should 
like  better,  into  your  own  custody,  I  must  seriously  desire  they 
may  be  sent  over  to  me.  Did  I  not  express  some  anxiety  on  this 
head,  you  would  have  a  right  to  call  me  a  very  careless  fellow. 

There  are  some  minor  matters  which  you  may  find  in  my  long 
letter ;  ^  such  as  a  request  to  settle  a  shameful  obsolete  bill,  my 
only  one,  at  Wedgwood's,  and  to  enquire  whether  Mr.  John 
Nichols,  bookseller  in  Red  Lion  Passage,  Fleet  Street,  did  not 
receive  a  letter  from  me  last  March  which  he  has  never  answered. 
But  I  must  insist  on  a  hogshead  of  Madeira  announced,  shipped, 
and,  I  believe,  paid  six  months  ago,  but  which  has  never  reached 
my  lips  or  my  cellar.  This  must  be  explored.  *Adieu.  Since  I 
do  not  appear  in  person,  I  feel  the  absolute  propriety  of  writing 
to  my  lady  and  Maria  ;  but  there  is  far  from  the  knowledge 
to  the  performance  of  a  duty.'"' 

Ever  yours, 
E.G. 


594. 
To  Mr.  Cadell. 

Lausanne,  Sept.  28th,  1792. 

Dear  Sin, 

As  you  must  have  been  informed  by  Lord  Sheffield 
of  my  approaching  arrival,  I  trust  that  you  will  feel  some  dis- 
appointment when  you  arc  told  by  myself  that  my  journey  to 
England  is  delayed  to  another  year.  The  cause  of  this  delay 
proceeds  solely  from  the  troubles  of  the  continent.  It  would  be 
madness  to  venture  my  life  in  the  land  of  Cannibals,  and  the 
circuitous  route  by  Germany  would  be  attended  with  a  large 
increase  of  trouble  and  expense.  I  grow  every  day  more  seden- 
tary, and  could  I  have  the  pleasure  of  shewing  you  my  house,  my 

•  See  letter  of  May  30,  1792. 


314  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

library,  and  mj  garden,  jou  wonld  not  be  surprised  that  I  should 
quit  them  with  some  reluctance.  You  may  perhaps  be  likewise 
disappointed  at  hearing  that  I  shall  probably  come  empty-handed. 
A  variety  of  untoward  circumstances  have  contributed  to  encrease 
my  indolence.  I  cannot  please  myself  with  the  choice  of  a  subject, 
and  it  may  be  prudent  to  enjoy  rather  than  expose  my  historical 
fame. 

Several  months  ago  I  wrote  a  very  civil  letter  to  Mr.  John 
Nichols,  Bookseller  at  Cicero'' s  head,  Red  Lion  Passage,  Fleet 
Street,  which  (had  he  received  it)  I  can  scarcely  persuade  myself  he 
would  have  left  without  an  answer.  It  related  to  a  very  curious 
paper  about  the  Gibbon  family  inserted  in  the  Gentleman's 
Magazine,  August,  1788,  p.  698,  which  had  just  fallen  into  my 
hands.  I  wished  to  know  the  author  and  by  what  means  I  could 
correspond  with  him  on  the  subject.  Perhaps  you  may  be  able, 
and  I  am  sure  you  are  willing,  to  clear  up  that  point  and  put  me 
in  a  proper  channel  by  a  personal  application  either  to  the  afore- 
said John  Nichols  or  to  some  other  person  concerned  in  the 
Gentleman's  Magazine. 

Be  so  kind  as  to  inform  Elmsley  of  what  he  will  hardly  believe, 
that  I  am  preparing  materials  for  a  letter  to  him,  with  a  long  list 
of  commissions.  Among  these  I  wish  you  boldly  to  introduce  the 
works  of  merit,  history,  travels,  literature,  philosophy,  and  even 
extraordinary  novels  which  bear  your  authentic  stamp. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mr.  Strahan. 


595. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  October  5th,  1792. 

■"As  our  Englisli  newspapers  must  have  informed  you  of  the 
invasion  of  Savoy  ^  by  the  French,  and  as  it  is  possible  that  you 

'  On  September  21,  1792,  without  any  declaration  of  war,  Montesquieu 
entered  Savoy,  seized  Montmelian  and  Chambe'ry,  and  in  a  few  days  overran 
the  whole  duchy.  In  Piedmont  the  French  troops  under  General  Anselme, 
supported  by  Admiral  Truguet  and  the  Toulon  fleet,  captured  Nice  and 
Villa  Franca.  The  Duchy  of  Savoy  was  incorporated  with  France  in 
November,  1792,  as  the  Department  of  Mont-Blanc,  and  the  Comte  of  Nice 
as  the  Department  '>f  the  Maritime  Alps. 


1792.]  FRENCH  INVASION   OF  SAVOY.  315 

may  luive  some  trifling  apprehensions  of  my  being  killed  and  eatea 
by  those  Cannibals,  it  has  appeared  to  me  that  a  short  extraordinary 
dispatch  might  not  be  unacceptable  on  this  occasion.  It  is  indeed 
true,  that  about  ten  days  ago  the  French  army  of  the  south,  under 
the  command  of  Mr.  de  Montesquiou,  (if  any  French  army  can  be 
said  to  be  under  any  command,)  has  entered  Savoy,  and  possessed 
themselves  of  Chamberry,  Montmelian,  &  several  other  places.  It 
has  always  been  the  practise  of  the  King  of  Sardinia  to  abandon 
his  transalpine  dominions  ;  but  on  this  occasion  the  Court  of  Turin 
appears  to  have  been  surprized  by  the  strange  eccentric  motions  of 
a  Democracy,  which  always  acts  from  the  passion  of  the  moment ; 
and  their  inferior  troops  have  retreated,  with  some  loss  and  dis- 
grace, into  the  passes  of  the  Alps.  Mount  Cenis  is  now  impervious, 
and  our  English  travellers  who  are  bound  for  Italy,  the  Dutchesses 
of  Devonshire,  Ancaster,  &c.,  will  be  forced  to  explore  a  long 
circuitous  road  through  the  Tirol.  But  the  Chablais  is  yet  intact, 
nor  can  our  telescopes  discover  the  tricolor  banners  on  the  other 
side  of  the  lake.  Our  accounts  of  the  French  numbers  seem  to 
vary  from  fifteen  to  thirty  thousand  men  ;  the  regulars  are  few, 
but  they  are  followed  by  a  rabble  rout,  which  must  soon,  however, 
melt  away,  as  they  will  find  no  plunder,  and  scanty  subsistence,  in 
the  poverty  and  barrenness  of  Savoy.  N.B.  I  have  just  seen  a 
letter  from  M.  de  M.,  who  boasts  that  at  his  first  entrance  into 
Savoy  he  had  only  twelve  battalions.  Our  intelligence  is  far  from 
correct. 

The  Magistrates  of  Geneva  were  alarmed  by  this  dangerous 
neighbourhood,  and  more  especially  by  the  weU  known  animosity 
of  an  exiled  citizen,  Claviere,^  who  is  one  of  the  six  ministers  of 
the  French  Republic.  It  was  can'ied  by  a  small  Majority  in  the 
general  council,  to  call  in  the  succour  of  three  thousand  Swiss, 
which  is  stipulated  by  ancient  treaty.    The  strongest  reason  or 

'  Etienno  Claviere  (1735-1793),  formerly  a  banker  in  Geneva,  liad  been 
banished  in  1784  for  his  writings.  As  a  member  of  the  Executive  Council, 
he  urged  upon  his  colleagues  the  attack  upon  Geneva,  and  orders  to  that 
effect  ^¥ere  given  to  Montesquieu  by  Servan,  the  Minister  of  War.  Geneva 
appealed  for  aid  to  Zurich  and  Berne  under  a  treaty  of  1584,  and  prepared 
for  defence.  A  treaty  was  signed,  October  22,  1792,  between  Montesquieu 
and  the  Republic  of  Geneva,  slightly  modified  by  a  fresh  treaty  signed 
on  November  2.  By  its  terms  the  French  troops  were  to  withdraw,  and  the 
Swiss  troops,  sent  by  the  cantons  of  Zurich  and  Berne,  were  to  evacuate 
Geneva  by  December  1,  1792.     Claviore  committed  suicide  in  1793. 


316  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

pretence  of  the  minority,  was  founded  on  the  danger  of  provoking 
the  French,  and  they  seem  to  have  been  justified  by  the  event ; 
since  the  complaint  of  the  French  resident  amounts  to  a  declara- 
tion of  War.  The  fortifications  of  Geneva  are  not  contemptible, 
especially  on  the  side  of  Savoy  ;  and  it  is  much  doubted  whether 
M.  de  Montesquiou  is  prepared  for  a  regular  siege  ;  but  the  mal- 
contents are  numerous  within  the  walls,  and  I  question  whether 
the  spirit  of  the  citizens  would  hold  out  against  a  bombardment. 
In  the  meanwhile  the  diet  has  declared,-  that  the  first  canon  fired 
against  Geneva  will  be  considered  as  an  act  of  hostility  against  the 
whole  Helvetic  body.  Berne,  as  the  nearest  and  most  powerful 
Canton,  has  taken  the  lead  with  great  vigour  and  vigilance  ;  the 
road  is  filled  with  the  perpetual  succession  of  troops  and  artillery  ; 
and,  if  some  disaffection  lurks  in  the  towns,  the  peasants,  especially 
the  Germans,  are  inflamed  with  a  strong  desire  of  encountering 
the  murderers  of  their  Countrymen.  Mr.  de  Watteville,  with 
whom  you  dined  at  my  house  last  year,  refused  to  accept  the 
command  of  the  Swiss  succour  of  Geneva,  till  it  was  made  his  first 
instruction  that  he  should  never,  in  any  case,  surrender  himself 
prisoner  of  War. 

In  this  situation,  you  may  suppose  that  we  have  some  fears. 
I  have  great  dependence,  however,  on  the  many  chances  in  our 
favour,  the  valour  of  the  Swiss,  the  return  of  the  Piedmontefce 
with  their  Austrian  alUes,  8  or  10  thousand  men  from  the  Milanese, 
a  diversion  from  Spain,  the  great  events  (how  slowly  they  proceed) 
on  the  side  of  Paris,  the  inconstancy  and  want  of  discipline  of  the 
French,  and  the  near  approach  of  the  winter  season.  I  am  not 
nervous,  but  I  will  not  be  rash.  It  will  be  painful  to  abandon  my 
liouse  and  library  ;  but  if  the  danger  should  approach,  I  will 
retreat  before  it,  first  to  Bern,  and  gradually  to  the  North.  Should 
I  even  be  forced  to  take  refuge  in  England  (a  violent  measure  so 
late  in  the  year)  you  would  perhaps  receive  me  as  kindly  as  you 
do  the  French  priests — a  noble  act  of  hospitality  !  Could  I  have 
foreseen  this  storm,  I  would  have  been  there  six  months  ago  ; 
but  who  can  foresee  the  wild  measures  of  the  Savages  of  Gaul  ? 
We  thought  ourselves  perfectly  out  of  the  Hurricane  latitudes. 
Adieu.  I  am  going  to  bed,  and  must  rise  early  to  visit  the  Neckers 
at  Rolle,  whither  they  have  retired,  from  the  frontier  situation 
of  Copet.  Severy  is  on  horseback,  with  his  dragoons  :  his  poor 
father  is  dangerously  ill.   It  will  be  shocking  if  it  should  be  found 


1792.]  GENEVA  THREATENED.  317 

uecessaiy  to  remove  him.     While  we  are  in  this  very  awkward 
crisis,  I  will  write  at  least  every  week. 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 

Write  instantly,  and  remember  all  my  commissions. 

I  will  keep  my  promise  of  sending  you  a  weekly  journal  of  our 
troubles,  that,  when  the  piping  times  of  peace  are  restored,  I  may 
sleep  in  long  and  irreproachable  silence  ;  but  I  shall  use  a  smaller 
paper,  as  our  military  exploits  will  seldom  be  sufficient  to  fill  the 
simple  size  of  an  English  quarto." 


596. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 


October  13th,  1792. 


"Since  my  last  of  the  Gth,  our  attack  is  not  more  imminent, 
and  our  defence  is  most  assuredly  stronger,  two  very  important 
circumstances,  at  a  time  when  every  day  is  leading  us,  though  not 
so  fast  as  our  impatience  could  wish,  towards  the  un warlike  month 
of  November ;  and  we  observe  with  pleasure  that  the  troops  of 
M.  de  Montesquieu,  which  are  chiefly  from  the  southern  provinces, 
will  not  chearfuUy  entertain  the  rigour  of  an  Alpine  Winter. 

The  7th  instant,  M.  de  Chateanneuf,  the  French  resident,^  took 
his  leave  with  an  haughty  mandate,  commanding  the  Genevois,  as 
they  valued  their  safety  and  the  friendship  of  the  Republic,  to 
dismiss  their  Swiss  alHes,  and  to  punish  the  Magistrates  who  had 
traitorously  proposed  the  calling  in  these  foreign  troops.  It  is 
precisely  the  fable  of  the  Wolves,  who  offered  to  make  peace  Avith 
the  sheep,  provided  they  would  send  away  their  dogs.  You  know 
what  became  of  the  sheep.  This  demand  appears  to  have  kindled 
a  just  and  generous  indignation,  since  it  announced  an  Edict  of 
proscription  ;  and  must  lead  to  a  Democratical  revolution,  which 
would  probably  renew  the  horrid  scenes  of  Paris  and  Avignon.  A 
General  assembly  of  the  Citizens  was  convened,  the  message  was 
read,  speeches  were  made,  oaths  were  taken,  and  it  was  resolved, 
with  only  three  dissentient  votes,  to  live  and  dye  in  the  defence 
of  their  country.  The  Genevois  muster  above  three  thousand 
well-armed  citizens  ;  and  the  Swiss,  who  may  easily  be  encrcased, 

'  At  Geneva. 


318  GIBBON'S  CORKESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

in  a  few  hours,  to  an  equal  number,  add  spirit  to  the  timorous, 
and  confidence  to  the  well-affected  :  their  arsenals  are  filled  with 
arms,  their  magazines  with  ammunition,  and  their  granaries  with 
corn.  But  their  fortifications  are  extensive  and  imperfect,  they 
are  commanded  from  two  adjacent  hills  ;  a  French  faction  Im'ks 
in  the  City ;  the  character  of  the  Gene  vols  is  rather  commercial 
than  military  ;  and  their  behaviour,  lofty  promise,  and  base  sur- 
render, in  the  year  1782,^  is  fresh  in  our  memories.  In  the  mean- 
while, 4000  French  at  the  most  are  arrived  in  the  neighbouring 
camp,  nor  is  there  yet  any  appearance  of  mortars  or  heavy  artillery. 
Perhaps  a  haughty  menace  may  be  repelled  by  a  firm  countenance. 
If  it  were  worth  while  talking  of  justice,  what  a  shameful  attack 
of  a  feeble  unoffending  state  !  On  the  news  of  their  danger,  all 
Switzerland,  from  Schaffouse  to  the  Pays  de  Vaud,  has  risen  in 
arms  ;  and  a  French  resident,  who  has  passed  through  the  country, 
in  his  way  from  Ratisbon,  declares  his  intention  of  informing  and 
admonishing  the  National  convention.  About  eleven  thousand 
Bemois  are  already  posted  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Copet  and 
Nyon  ;  and  new  reinforcements  of  men,  artillery,  &c.,  arrive  every 
day.  Another  army  is  drawn  together  to  oppose  Mr.  de  Ferrieres, 
on  the  side  of  Bienne  and  the  Bishoprick  of  Basle ;  and  the 
Austrians  in  Swabia  would  be  easily  persuaded  to  cross  the  Rhine 
in  our  defence.  But  we  are  yet  ignorant  whether  our  sovereigns 
mean  to  wage  offensive  or  defensive  War.  If  the  latter,  which  is 
more  likely,  will  the  French  begin  the  attack .?  Should  Geneva 
yield  to  fear  or  force,  this  country  is  open  to  an  invasion ;  and 
though  our  men  are  brave,  we  want  Generals  ;  and  I  despise  the 
French  much  less  than  I  did  two  months  ago.     It  should  seem'"' 

*  At  Geneva  the  Government  was  vested  in  the  two  hundred  and  fifty 
citizens  who  composed  the  Fetit  Conseil  and  the  Conseil  des  Beux-Cents. 
Against  this  hereditary  oligarchy  Rousseau  gave  the  signal  of  revolt  by  his 
Lettres  de  la  Montagne  (ITGi).  Two  parties  were  formed :  one,  the  Bepr^- 
sentdnts,  demanding  a  revision  of  the  constitution ;  the  other,  N€gatifs, 
opposing  it.  In  1781  the  popular  party  gained  the  upper  hand.  The  aristo- 
cratic party,  appealing  to  the  treaty  of  1738,  which  only  allowed  constitutional 
changes  to  be  made  with  the  so^nction  of  France  and  Sardinia,  demanded 
the  help  of  those  two  powers.  A  combined  Swiss,  French,  and  Sardinian 
force  was  sent,  and  in  July,  1782,  the  popular  party,  who  had  promised  to 
emulate  the  citizens  of  Saguntum,  surrendered  the  city  without  a  struggle,  and 
the  aristocratic  constitution  was  restored.  Brissot  de  Warville,  as  le  Phila- 
delphien  a  Geneve,  and  Mallet  du  Pan  were  both  eye-witnesses  of  the  events 
of  the  revolution. 


1792.]  GIBBON   PREPARED  FOR  FLIGHT.  319 

from  Trevor's  letters,  who  is  indeed  low-spirited,  "tliat  our  hopes 
from  the  King  of  Sardinia  and  the  Austrians  of  Milan  are  faint 
and  distant ;  Spain  sleeps,  and  the  Duke  of  Brunzwick  (amazement !) 
seems  to  have  failed  in  his  great  project.  For  my  part,  till  Geneva 
falls,  I  do  not  think  of  a  retreat ;  but,  at  all  events,  I  am  provided 
with  two  strong  horses,  and  a  hundred  Louis  in  gold.  Zurich 
would  be  probably  my  winter  quarters,  and  the  society  of  the 
Neckers  would  make  any  place  agreablc.  Their  situation  is  worse 
than  mine :  I  have  no  daughter  ready  to  lye  in ;  ^  nor  do  I  fear 
the  French  aristocrates  on  the  road. 

Adieu.  Keep  my  letters ;  excuse  contradictions  and  repeti- 
tions.    The  Dutchess  of  Devonshii'o  leaves  us  next  week.     Lady 

Elizabeth  abhorrs  you." 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 

597. 
Lord  Slieffield  to  Edward  Gibhon. 

Sheffield  Place,  17th  Oct.,  '92. 

I  have  not  patience  to  talk  with  you  on  the  state  of  things, 
I  am  lamentably  disappointed.  De  Custine's  successful  incursion  ^ 
into  Germany,  to  which  he  seems  to  have  been  invited  by  the 
placing  a  large  Magazine  with  a  small  guard  in  an  unarmed  town 
within  a  day's  march  of  the  large  garrison  of  Landau.  In  short, 
that  circumstance  and  the  negociations  at  St.  Menehould  and  the 
retreat  of  the  combined  armies"  have  totally  deranged  all  my 

*  Albert,  the  second  son  of  Madame  de  Stael,  was  born  at  this  time. 

-  Adam  de  Custine  (1740-1794),  a  veteran  of  the  Seven  Years'  and 
American  Wars,  commanded  part  of  the  French  army  of  the  Rhine.  He 
made  himself  master  of  Spire,  AVorms,  Mayence,  and  Frankfort;  but  was 
afterwards  driven  out  of  the  two  latter  places  by  the  Prussians.  He  was 
executed  at  Paris  January  3,  1794. 

^  The  Prussian  army,  entangled  in  the  wood  of  Argonne  between  the 
Mouse  and  the  Marne,  were  outgeneralled  by  Dumouriez  and  Kellermau. 
The  Duke  of  Brunswick,  after  the  battle  of  Valmy  (Sei^tembcr  20),  opened 
negotiations  with  Dumouriez  (September  22-28)  at  Ste.  Menehould,  and  then 
(October  1)  retreated  across  the  French  frontier.  The  Austrians  failed  to  take 
Lille,  and,  at  the  approach  of  Dumouriez,  retired  into  the  Low  Countries 
(October  8).  Dumouriez,  following  them,  won  the  battle  of  Jemappes 
(November  G),  and  overran  Belgium.  At  the  same  time  the  French  troops 
were  masters  of  Savoy  and  Nice,  and  of  the  country  between  the  Rhine  and 


320  GIBBON'S  CORKESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

notions  of  dignity,  generalship,  preponderance  of  military  discipline, 
&c.,  &c.,  and  all  my  speculations,  moral,  religious,  political,  and 
military,  are  sent  into  a  troubled  sea  without  rudder  or  compass. 
I  had  always  some  anxiety  concerning  the  subsistence  of  a  very 
large  army  from  the  I'rontier  to  Paris,  if  the  French  should  make 
up  their  mind  to,  and  they  could,  lay  waste  the  country,  destroying 
forage,  &c. ;  but  I  had  never  supposed  the  enterprise  would  end 
so  abruptly  in  disgrace  and  calamity.  I  now  see  no  prospect  of 
any  speedy  settlement  of  French  disturbances.  The  miscreants 
at  Paris,  encouraged  by  an  appearance  of  success,  will  be  active 
to  extend  their  mischiefs,  and  my  apprehensions  are  by  no  means 
quiet  with  respect  to  our  own  affairs. 

Among  the  Dissenters  it  is  thought  there  are  a  great  many 
disposed  to  change.  I  am  very  far  from  satisfied  with  Charles 
Fox,  much  less  with  Gray,  Lord  Lauderdale,  &c.  Even  in  the 
trumpery  town  of  Lewes  there  are  some  who  hold  meetings  and 
correspond  with  certain  Societies  of  the  worst  kind  in  the  Borough, 
and  of  which  you  have  probably  heard ;  one  of  the  creatures  at 
Lewes  said  lately  that,  if  the  French  business  succeeded  in  any 
degree,  it  was  perfectly  sure  that  England  would  be  in  the  same 
state  as  France  is  now  in,  before  the  end  of  ten  years,  and  another 
declared  that  England  would  never  do  well  until  5000  of  the 
Nobility  &  Gentry  were  hung  up. 

Ireland  is  in  no  slight  degree  of  alarm.^   The  Roman  Catholicks 

the  Maine.  Fox  rejoiced  at  the  flight  of  the  invaders.  "  No  public  event, 
not  excepting  Saratoga  and  York  Town,  ever  happened  that  gave  me  so 
much  delight "  (C.  J.  F.  to  Lord  Holland,  October  12,  1792). 

'  The  French  Revolution  had  stirred  the  political  spirit  of  the  Irish 
nation  as,  ten  years  before,  it  had  been  aroused  by  the  American  War.  It 
appealed  most  strongly  to  the  people  by  the  abolition  of  tithes  and  all 
religious  disqualifications.  The  Presbyterians  of  the  North  were  Republican 
in  their  sympathies,  and  ready  to  make  common  cause  with  the  Roman 
Catholics  for  the  repeal  of  all  penal  laws  and  the  extension  of  the  franchise. 
The  United  Irisbmen  were  the  growth  of  this  approximation  of  parties. 
Among  the  Roman  Catholics  also  there  was  a  rapid  spread  of  the  democratic 
spirit.  The  English  Government  was  ready  to  grant  a  liberal  measure  of 
Catholic  relief  and  to  extend  the  suffrage  to  the  Roman  Catholics.  At  first 
the  Irish  Government  strongly  opposed  any  change  which  threatened  the 
maintenance  of  Protestant  ascendency.  But  the  danger  of  union  between 
the  Protestant  Republicans  and  the  Catholic  democrats  became  apparent, 
when  the  Catholic  Convention  met  at  Dublin  in  December,  1792,  and  a 
Relief  Bill,  repealing  many  oppressive  enactments  and  conceding  the 
franchise,  was  carried,  almost  without  opposition,  in  the  beginning  of  1793. 


1792.]  DISCONTENT  IN  IllELAND.  321 

arc  much  discontented.  A  ship-load  of  arms  was  lately  landed 
for  the  discontented  in  the  North.  They  have  the  impudence 
to  exercise  even  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Drogheda.  The  natives 
return  to  their  old  tricks  of  shooting  CUrislkois  in  a  most 
treacherous  manner,  and  even  in  what  is  called  the  most  civilized 
parts,  and  of  houghing  Protestant  cattle.  If  the  Government  of 
Ireland  continues  to  be  feeble  and  not  to  act  with  firmness  it 
may  be  difficult  to  say  how  matters  will  end — but  there  never  was 
a  time  less  favourable  to  the  insurrection  of  Eoman  Catholicks, 
than  the  moment  when  it  will  not  be  possible  for  them  to  have 
assistance  from  foreign  countries. 

I  am  sorry  the  early  meeting  of  Parliament  which  I  announced 
to  you,  is  not  confirmed,  yet  I  think  it  would  have  been  a  wise 
measure  to  have  brought  men  together  early,  and  not  to  have 
suffered  the  impressions  made  by  the  extravagance  and  cruelty 
of  the  Jacobins  to  wear  out,  or  perhaps  to  receive  a  contrary 
direction.  The  worst  cause  when  it  seems  fortunate  will  find 
defenders  perhaps,  but  certainly  will  not  want  partisans. 

Mrs.  Moss  ^  has  sent  us  a  curious  account  of  the  dismay  which 
took  place  in  the  Geneva  State  on  the  incursion  into  Savoy  ;  but 
amidst  all  the  calamities,  we  are  glad  to  find  from  her,  you  are  in 
good  condition.  I  consider  the  French  affairs  so  far  out  of  the 
line  of  common  Politicks,  that  I  wish  the  whole  world  to  declare 
against  them,  and  run  them  do^vn  as  pestiferous  wolves,  and 
therefore  I  wish  all  Switzerland  to  join  against  them ;  but  I 
doubt  whether  it  will  be  the  policy  of  that  country  to  engage  in 
offensive  war  ;  and  I  suppose  Geneva  will  not  admit  Swiss  troops, 
if  it  will  bring  on  a  bombardment.  I  cannot  conceive  why  some 
of  the  passes  into  Savoy  were  not  defended.  I  long  to  hear  that 
the  retreat  of  the  French  is  cut  off.  I  am  sorry  I  can  see  no 
prospect  of  the  interference  of  this  country.     I  think  we  might 

The  Eomau  Catholics,  it  may  be  added,  were  excluded  from  the  Irish 
Parliament  in  the  reign  of  William  III.  (3  W.  &  M.  c.  2)  and  deprived  of  the 
franchise  in  that  of  George  II.  (1  Geo.  II.  c.  9).  Lord  SheflSeld,  as  a  later 
letter  shows,  agreed  with  the  Lord  Lieutenant,  Lord  Westmorland,  in 
advocating  resistance  to  the  Catholics  '■'■in  limine  and  in  toto,"  and  in 
thinking  that  the  suspicion,  that  the  "  British  Government  means  to  take  up 
the  Catholics,  and  to  play  what  is  called  a  Catholic  game,"  would  disastrously 
weaken  the  hold  of  the  Government  upon  the  country.  Burke  (Correspond- 
ence, vol.  iv.  p.  32)  seems  to  suggest  that  Lord  Sheffield  was  prejudiced  by 
the  possession  of  Irish  property  in  the  county  of  Louth. 
*  Miss  C.  Moss,  a  frequent  visitor  at  Sheffield  Place, 
vol..  II.  Y 


322  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

at  least  tell  them,  they  must  not  fit  out  fleets  against  Nice  or  any 
place.  Among  many  correspondents,  and  some  of  them  the  best 
informed,  I  find  there  is  not  the  most  distant  guess  of  the 
intentions  of  Government.     Perhaps  they  have  no  plan. 

I  believe  my  last  mentioned  that  I  have  been  much  employed, 
by  an  attention  to  the  poor  refugees.  Lally  has  been  here  and  is 
gone,  to  return  in  a  few  days  with  the  princess  d'Henin  and  the 
Pauline.^  We  have  had  the  most  curious  details,  and  just  now, 
from  some  respectable  priests  who  were  shut  up  with  the  Arch- 
bishop of  Aries,  &c.,  when  the  latter  were  massacred.  Possibly 
you  may  not  have  so  good  an  account  at  Lausanne,  therefore  I 
shall  urge  Maria  to  write  it  to  you.  The  late  massacres-  are 
infinitely  more  execrable  than  any  French  or  English  paper  have 
stated. 

We  are  exceedingly  sorry  to  hear  by  Mrs.  Moss,  that  M.  de 
Severy  is  ill.  You  shall  hear  no  more  from  hence  untill  you  write 
to  us. 

598. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

October  20tli,  1792. 

*Since  my  last,  our  affairs  take  a  more  pacific  turn  ;  but  I  will 
not  venture  to  affirm  that  our  peace  will  be  either  safe  or  honour- 
able. Mr.  de  Montesquiou  and  three  Commissioners  of  the 
Convention,  who  are  at  Carrouge,  have  had  several  conferences 
with  the  Magistrates  of  Geneva ;  several  expresses  have  been 
dispatched  to  and  from  Paris,  and  every  step  of  the  negociation 
is  communicated  to  the  deputies  of  Bern  and  Zurich.  The  French 
troops  observe  a  very  tolerable  degree  of  order  and  discipline  : 
«nd  no  act  of  hostility  has  yet  l)een  committed  on  the  territory 
of  Geneva.* 

599. 

The  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd  to  Edward  Gihhon. 

Oct.  24th,  '92. 
The  amiable  family  at  S,  P.  being  infinitely  dehghted  with 
your  welcome  dispatch,  &  still  more  so  with  the  promise  of  writing 

'  Mdlle.  Pauline  de  Pully. 

-  The  massacres  of  September,  1792. 


1702.]  THE  ARM£E  MONTESQUIEU.  023 

everij  iceelc,  have  had  a  dispute  amongst  themselves,  who  was 
to  have  the  honor  of  answering  you,  &  reminding  you  of  that 
promise.  I  have  gained  permission  to  he  the  happy  person,  & 
happy  I  shall  think  myself,  if  you  should  direct  one  of  the  promised 
Letters  to  me.  TTe  talk  and  think  of  nothing  but  foreign  news, 
&  ;Mama  is  very  abusive  of  the  Jacobins.  ^Massacres  have  some- 
times enraged  me  a  little,  but  I  have  borne  every  thing  with 
tolerable  patience,  except  that  Wretches,  who  have  no  other  idea 
of  liberty,  than  the  liberty  of  murdering  defenceless  prisoners, 
should  dare  to  think  of  attacking  a  Xation,  whose  Ideas  of  freedom 
are  not  so  refined  as  theirs,  &  whose  valour  is  ahnost  proverbial. 
Though  I  am  perfectly  satisfied  that  the  tricolor  Bamier  will  never 
be  erected  in  the  town  of  Lausanne,  yet  I  am  very  anxious  to  hear 
what  becomes  of  the  Annie  Jlonfesquiou.  I  am  always  wishing 
myself  the  guardian  Angel  of  the  Pais  de  Yaud.  If  I  was,  I  am 
sure  I  should  be  inspired  to  do  wondei-s.  But,  alas !  I  am  a 
poor  Mortal,  &  can  only  assist  that  Country  by  my  best  Wishes 
for  its  safety  &  prosperity. 

How  I  wish  you  had  let  ns  remain  &  vegetate  in  our  own 
little  Island.  I  should  have  felt  no  other  Interest  in  what  is 
passing  in  your  part  of  the  World,  than  joy  that  you  would  be 
obliged  to  return  to  your  native  Country.  You  have  likewise 
to  answer  for  making  me  disatisfied  with  the  famous  Lakes  & 
Eivers  in  the  County  of  Sussex  ;  &  for  shewing  me  a  Country 
to  which  no  other  can  compare,  &  which  to  see  again  I  would 
give  all  my  share  of  My  lord's  Sheep  and  Oxen,  Ponds  &  Rivers. 
I  do  not  know  how  to  reconcile  my  wishes  for  the  peace  of 
Switzerland,  with  those  for  your  return  to  England — as  you 
seem  resolved  not  to  indulge  us  Avith  your  company,  unless  yon 
are  forced  from  your  residence  by  a  few  thousand  Marseillois. 
I  cannot  tell  you  how  much  I  was  disappointed  when  I  was 
obliged  to  give  up  all  expectation  of  seeing  you  this  year.  I 
wrote  to  Angletine  a  fortnight  ago.  I  am  very  sorry  indeed  to 
hear  her  father  is  in  a  bad  state  of  health.  I  hope  you  will 
be  able  to  give  a  good  Account  of  him,  when  you  write  next. 
Pray  remember  me  to  them  very  particularly,  though  I  wish 
you  had  never  made  me  acquainted  with  people  I  may  probably 
never  see  again  &  yet  cannot  forget. 

Papa  is  gone  down  the  Eiver  Ouse,  &  ordered  me  to  give  you 
an  account  of  the  Emigrants  ;  he  would  not  think  I  had  obeyed  him 


321  GIBBON'S  COKRESPOXDENCE.  [1792- 

veiy  exactly,  if  lie  was  to  see  iny  Letter — he  would  probably  call  it 
Stuff  and  Nonsense.    I  hope  you  will  not,  tho'  I  always  feel  my- 
self so  unworthy  to  wiite  to  you,  that  I  generally  suspect  my  poor 
Letters  meet  with  a  degree  of  criticism  I  am  sure  they  cannot  bear. 
Now  for  Papa's  Emigrants.     The  Due  de  Liancourt,^  who  will 
have  (when  he  can  get  it)  the  most  considerable  estate  in  France 
by  the  death  of  the  Due  de  Rochefoucauld,  has  been  waiting  for 
some  weeks  to  come  here,  till  Arthur  Young  should  find  it  con- 
venient to  set  off,  as  he  had  offered  the  Duke  a  seat  in  his  Post 
chaise ;  he  is  in  such  distressed  circumstances  that  his  present 
plan  is  to  go  &  settle  in  America.    Mad^  de  Biron,  who  came 
over  with  so  much  difficulty  and  danger,  that  she  lost  her  senses 
from  fright  and   alarm,   is  returned   to   France  to    avoid    the 
confiscation  of  her  Estates.     The  same  reason  existing  for  her 
remaining  there  when  she  left  the  Country,  it  seems  an  extra- 
ordinary resolution  to  take,  her  returning,  when  she  will  be  in  as 
great  danger  as  before.     Mad".  d'Henin-  is  settled  at  Richmond, 
&  Mad"^  de  Pully  is  arrived  in  England — we  expect  them  hero 
every  day.    Lally  told  us,  when  he  was  here,  D.  of  Fitzjames^  was 
living   in   Germany  upon   qiunze  sous  j?ar  jour,  &   saving  out 
of  that  pittance  to  send  something  to  her  sons  in  the  Army.     A 
great  number  of  french  Priests  have  landed  on  our  Coast.'*     I 


& 


»  The  Due  de  Liancourt  (1747-1827)  took  the  title  of  Eochefoucault- 
Liancourt  on  succeeding  to  his  cousin,  the  Due  de  la  Rochefoucault  who  was 
murdered  at  Gisors  in  September,  1792.  He  had  been  a  distinguished 
member  of  the  Feuillants,  or  constitutional  reformers.  Ke  escaped  to 
England  and  tlionce  to  the  United  States.  On  his  return  to  France  he 
occupied  himself  with  philanthropic  works  and  the  management  of  his 
estates.  Both  he  and  his  cousin  were  generous  patrons  of  Arthur  Young 
during  his  travels  in  France  (1787-89),  and  promoted  that  revival  of  agri- 
culture at  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century  which  corresponded  with  the 
similar  movement  in  England. 

^  The  Princesse  d'He'niu  was  rescued  from  Paris  by  Madame  do  Stael 
(Forneron,  Hist,  des  Emigres,  vol.  i.  p.  244).  It  was  at  her  house  that 
Malouet,  La  Fayette,  and  the  Constitutionnels  had  planned  an  escape  for 
Louis  XVI.  in  May,  1792. 

*  The  Duchess  of  Fitzjames  was  the  daughter  of  the  Comte  de  Thiars, 
and  dame  de  palaig  in  tho  household  of  Marie  Antoinette.  Charles,  her 
eldest  son,  died  with  the  army  of  the  princes.  Edward,  her  second  son,  who 
succeeded  to  the  title,  distinguished  himself  by  his  oratorical  powers  in  the 
Chamber  of  Peers  at  the  Ecstoration,  and  in  that  of  the  Deputies  under 
Louis  Philippe. 

*  On  September  17, 1792,  seventy-six  French  priests,  and  among  them  the 
Bishop  of  Avranches,  landed  at  Hastings. 


1792.]  DISTRESS  OF  FRENCH  REFUGEES.  325 

suppose  my  lord  informed  you  of  the  arrival  of  two  here  who  had 
escaped  from  the  Massacre  at  les  Carmes — the  detail  of  the  death 
of  the  Archbishop  of  Aries  is  horrid,  but  too  long  for  a  Letter. 
The  subscriptions  in  London  are  very  great—one  for  the  Clergy 
only,  amounts  to  £12,000,  «fc  that  for  both  Clergy  and  Laity  to 
upwards  of  £4000.  The  latter  has  enabled  some  Swiss  officers  to 
reach  their  own  Country,  Avho  intended  to  beg  their  way  thro' 
Holland,  &  supports  some  french  Ladies  of  fashion  who  hud 
nothing  but  what  they  got  by  their  needlework.  Burke  &  Papa 
have  had  a  vigorous  correspondence  on  the  subject — the  former 
is  very  indignant  that  a  case  he  had  drawn  up  about  Atheists 
calling  themselves  Philosophers  in  France  was  not  received. 

I  do  not  dare  expect,  but  1  will  hojm  to  hear  from  you.  Will 
you  be  so  good  as  to  remember  me  to  M.  &  M^  Levade  ?  Do  you 
know  where  the  Legards  and  Grimstoncs  are  ?  Mama  has  some 
doubts,  as  to  how  she  shall  receive  you  ;  if  you  are  obliged  to  fly 
to  England,  I  shall  be  too  w-ell  pleased  with  the  effect  to  think 
of  the  cause. 

Mama  desires  a  great  many  pretty  things  to  you.  She  is 
quite  well  &  in  good  spirits  ;  how  unlucky  we  could  not  say  the 
same  last  year.  Louisa  is  still  at  Bath.  I  am  in  hopes  of  paying 
her  a  visit  there  next  month.  She  raves  about  Switz.  almost 
as  much  as  me. 


GOO. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

October  27. 

'■•'My  usual  temper  very  readily  admitted  the  excuse,  that  it 
would  be  better  to  wait  another  week,  till  the  final  settlement  of 
our  affairs.  The  treaty  is  signed  between  France  and  Geneva  ; 
and  the  ratification  of  the  Convention  is  looked  upon  as  assured, 
if  any  thing  can  be  assured  in  that  wild  Democracy.^  On  condition 
that  the  Swiss  Garrison,  -with   the  approbation  of   Berne  and 

*  The  report  of  the  French  Diplomatic  Committee  upon  the  two  treaties 
of  October  22  and  November  2  was  delivered  by  Brissot  on  November  21. 
It  neither  ratified  nor  rejected  the  treaties,  reserving  the  question  whether  a 
free  people  could  bind  itself  by  treaties.  At  the  same  time  the  Convention 
ordered  the  French  troops  to  respect  the  neutrality  of  Geneva,  if  the  Swisa 
troops  evacuated  the  city  by  December  1,  1792. 


326  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1702. 

Zurich,  be  recalled  before  the  first  of  December,  it  is  stipulated 
that  the  independence  of  Geneva  shall  be  preserved  inviolate  ; 
that  M.  de  Montesquieu  shall  immediately  send  away  his  heavy 
artillery ;  and  that  no  French  troops  shall  approach  within  ten 
leagues  of  the  city.  As  the  Swiss  have  acted  only  as  auxiliaries, 
they  have  no  occasion  for  a  direct  treaty ;  but  they  cannot 
prudently  disarm,  till  they  are  satisfied  of  the  pacific  intentions 
of  France ;  and  no  such  satisfaction  can  be  given  till  they  have 
acknowledged  the  new  Republic,  which  they  will  probably  do  in 
a  few  days,  with  a  deep  groan  of  indignation  and  sorrow  ;  it  has 
been  cemented  with  the  blood  of  their  countrymen  !  But  when 
the  Emperor,  the  King  of  Prussia,  the  first  General,  and  the  first 
army  in  Europe  have  failed,  less  poAverful  states  may  acquiesce, 
without  dishonour,  in  the  determination  of  fortune.  Do  you 
understand  this  most  unexpected  failure  ?  I  will  allow  an  ample 
share  to  the  badness  of  the  roads  and  the  weather,  to  famine  and 
disease,  to  the  skill  of  Dumourier,  a  heaven-born  General,  and  to 
the  enthusiastic  ardour  of  the  new  Romans  ;  but  still,  still  there 
must  be  some  secret  shameful  cause  at  the  bottom  of  this  strange 
retreat.^ 

We  are  now  delivered  from  the  impending  terrors  of  siege 
and  invasion.  The  Geneva  Emigres,  particularly  the  Neckers, 
are  hastening  to  their  homes  ;  and  I  shall  not  be  reduced  to  the 
hard  necessity  of  seeking  a  winter  azylum  at  Zurich  or  Constance : 
but  I  am  not  pleased  with  our  future  prospects.  It  is  much  to 
be  feared  that  the  present  Government  of  Geneva  will  be  soon 
modelled  after  the  French  fashion ;  the  new  Republic  of  Savoy 
is  forming  on  the  opposite  bank  of  the  lake ;  the  Jacobin 
Missionaries  are  powerful  and  zealous ;  and  the  ]\ralcontents  of 
this  country,  who  begin  again  to  rear  their  heads,  will  be  sur- 
rounded with  temptations,  and  examples,  and  allies.  I  know  not 
whether  the  pays  de  Vaud  will  long  adhere  to  the  dominion  of 

*  The  Duke  of  Brunswick  was  charged  ■with  being  bribed  to  retire.  No 
ground  for  the  accusation  has  ever  been  alleged,  except  that,  on  the  duke's 
return,  he  paid  off  heavy  debts.  The  charge  was  made  by  Talleyrand  in 
1802.  It  is  repeated  by  both  Lacretelle  and  Thiers  in  their  histories.  It  is 
omitted  by  Michaud  in  his  article  on  Brunswick,  which  appeared  in  the 
BiograpMe  UnirerselJe  in  1812;  but  it  is  given  in  the  articles  which  the 
name  writer  contributed  on  Dumouriez  and  Drouet  to  the  supplementary 
volume  (1837).  It  is  also  made  by  the  Comte  d'Allonville  in  his  M^moires 
Secrets  (vol.  iii.  pp.  94-97). 


1792.]  A  TUTORSHIP  FOR  SEVER Y.  327 

Berne ;  or  whether  I  sliall  be  permitted  to  end  my  days  in  this 
little  paradise,  which  I  have  so  happily  suited  to  my  taste  and 
circumstances. 

Last  Monday  only  I  received  your  letter,  which  had  strangely 
loitered  on  the  road  since  its  date  of  the  29th  of  September. 
There  must  surely  be  some  disorder  in  the  posts,  since  the  Eliza 
departed  indignant  at  never  having  heard  from  you.* 

I  still  am  of  opinion  that  it  is  both  unseemly  and  unusual  for 
Its  to  propose  any  specific  terms.  You  must  hear  the  ideas  of  the 
parents  or  guardians.  You  must  consider  on  the  behalf  of  your 
client,  how  far  a  moderate  interest  may  be  enhanced  by  rank  and 
character,  how  far  a  deficiency  (less  desirable)  in  those  qualifica- 
tions may  be  varnished  with  gold.  If  everything  should  unite, 
you  may  boldly  accept ;  if  you  hesitate  you  must  take  the  matter 
ad  referendum,  and  they  must  expect  our  answer  by  the  return  of 
the  post.  You  will  say  perhaps  that  the  parties  may  be  impatient, 
and  that  delay  may  be  productive  of  danger.  This  I  must 
acknowledge,  nor  is  it  only  in  this  respect  that  I  feel  the  dis- 
advantage of  his  not  being  on  the  spot. — I  much  regret  the 
M[arquis]  of  C[armarthen],  his  father  the  D[uke]  of  L[eeds]  is  a 
fair  and  honourable  man.  Your  hint  of  General  Bude  (of  whom 
I  had  never  heard)  shall  not  be  neglected  :  when  the  Duchess  of 
D.  returns  to  England  next  year,  I  hope  she  will  be  able  and 
willing  to  assist  the  young  man,  to  whom  she  expressed  much 
friendship,  and  whom  she  appointed  her  chevalier  sans  peur 
and  sans  reproche  by  the  delivery  of  a  feather  and  a  cockade. 
He  is  now  on  service  with  his  dragoons,  but  will  probably  be 
soon  disbanded. 

Without  confessing  that  my  fears  and  scruples  were  quite  so 
anile  as  you  are  always  disposed  to  think  them,  I  am  now  in  a 
great  measure  satisfied.  I  wish  yon  may  find  a  secure  mortgage 
at  four  per  cent.  ;  but  though  I  do  not  perfectly  like  the 
Debentures  (which  you  never  explained  before),  I  cannot  think 
they  run  much  risk  till  our  next  meeting  in  England. 

The  case  of  my  AViue  I  think  peculiarly  hard  ;  to  lose  my 
Madeira,  and  to  be  scolded  for  losing  it.  Please  to  remember 
that  the  Wine  Merchant  never  sent  me  any  letter  of  advice,  as  he 
ought  to  have  done,  of  the  time  and  manner  of  its  departure  ;  and 
that  when  I  first  expressed  my  astonishment  to  you  (in  my  great 
letter  of  at  least  four  months  ago)  you  were  too  much  engrossed 


o28  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

with  a  more  interesting  subject  to  return  any  answer.  What 
could  I  do  ?  my  part  was  entirely  passive,  to  expect  its  arrival, 
which  I  still  expect.  Yet  I  have  now  directed  proper  enquiries 
to  be  made  at  Basle  and  Ostend  ;  the  London  Merchant  must 
trace  it  forwards,  and  the  last  person  in  whose  hands  it  has  been 
must  be  responsible  for  the  wine  or  its  value.  Whatsoever  may 
be  right,  I  have  no  intention  of  seeking  a  legal  remedy ;  but  on 
a  similar  occasion,  I  hope  we  shall  never  repeat  the  liberal  con- 
fidence of  such  premature  payment. 

"I  am  much  indebted  to  Mr.  Nichols  for  his  Genealogical  com- 
munications, which  I  am  impatient  to  receive ;  but  I  do  not 
understand  why  so  civil  a  Gentleman  could  not  favour  me,  in 
six  months,  with  an  answer  by  the  post :  since  he  entrusts  me 
with  these  valuable  papers,  you  have  not,  I  presume,  informed 
him  of  my  negligence  and  awkwardness  in  regard  to  Manuscripts. 
Your  reproach  rather  surprizes  me,  as  I  suppose  I  am  much  the 
same  as  I  have  been  for  these  last  twenty  Years.  Should  you  hold 
your  resolution  of  writing  only  such  things  as  may  be  published 
at  Charing-cross,  our  future  correspondence  would  not  be  very 
interesting.  But  I  expect  and  require,  at  this  important  crisis, 
a  full  and  confidential  account  of  your  views  concerning  England, 
Ireland,  and  France.  Y''ou  have  a  strong  and  clear  eye  ;  and  your 
pen  is,  perhaps,  the  most  useful  quill  that  ever  has  been  plucked 
from  a  goose.  Your  protection  of  the  French  refugees  is  highly 
applauded.  Rosset  and  La  Motte  have  escaped  from  Arbourg, 
perhaps  with  connivance  to  avoid  disagreeable  demands  from 
the  Republic.     Adieu." 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 

GOl. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Bath,  Sth  Nov.,  1792. 

Among  the  whimsical  events  of  the  last  three  years,  none  is 
more  extraordinary  than  an  Hebdominal  letter  from  you.  Your 
character  however  is  so  bad  on  that  head,  that  there  is  not  much 
dependance  on  your  perseverance,  but  it  produces  a  desire  and 
resolution  in  the  Family  to  address  you  weekly  as  long  as  you  give 
such  encouragement. 


17U2.J  THREE  LATE  FRENCH  MINISTERS.  329 

Here  I  am,  not  on  account  of  my  eyes  (which  contuuie  very 
weak),  but  to  attend  the  Mayor's  Feast  at  Bristol  this  day.  I 
arrived  last  night.  I  was  but  one  night  in  London.  I  found  the 
Hotel  in  Downing  Street  occupied  by  the  Princess  d'Henin,  the 
Beautiful  Comtcsse  Charles  de  Noailles/  the  Pauline,  the  Prince 
de  Poix,-  Gouvernet,-'  Lally,  &c.  I  proceeded  in  the  morning 
to  Bulstrode  ^  to  hold  a  conversation  with  the  Duke,  and  from 
thence  I  moved  to  this  place  with  the  Maria,  whom  I  shall  leave 
with  Aunt  while  I  go  through  the  necessary  duties  at  Bristol, 
which  will  at  least  engage  me  till  the  13th  instant.  Talking 
of  Downing  Street,  I  should  mention  the  extraordinary  occurrence 
in  the  dining-room  there  a  few  days  since,  of  the  three  late 
French  Ministers,  St.  Croix,^  Moncicl,"  Bertrand^  and  also  Malouet,' 

*  The  Oomtesse  Charles  de  Noailles,  nee  Nathalie  de  Laborde,  the 
daughter  of  the  banker  of  that  name,  married  in  1790  Charles  de  Noailles, 
son  of  the  Prince  de  Poix. 

-  Louis  Philippe  Antoine  de  Noailles,  Prince  de  Poix,  eldest  son  of  the 
Mare'chal  and  Mare'chale  de  Mouchy,  who  were  guillotined  on  July  22,  1794. 
He  commanded  the  Noailles  Company  of  the  Royal  Body-guard.  He  was 
arrested  in  August,  1792,  but  escaped  on  his  way  to  the  Abbaye.  He 
married  Aiine  de  Beauvau,  who  died  in  1834. 

'  The  Comte  de  la  Tour-du-Pin  Gouvernet  had  been  aide-de-camp  to 
Bouille'  at  the  repression  of  the  mutiny  at  Nancy.  He  was  entrusted  with 
the  task  of  opening  the  plan,  formed  for  the  rescue  of  the  king  and  royal 
family  in  the  early  summer  of  1792,  to  Marie  Antoinette.  Her  distrust  of 
La  Fayette  caused  its  failure.  "  Plutot  pe'rir  qu'etre  sauve  par  La  Fayette 
et  les  Constitutionnels ! "  was  her  well-known  exclamation.  Gouvernet 
Hubsequeutly  went  to  America,  and  died  at  Lausanne  in  1837. 

*  The  seat  of  the  Duke  of  Portland. 

^  Bigot  de  Sainte  Croix,  Minister  for  Foreign  Aifairs,  was  one  of  the 
agents  in  the  schemes  for  the  rescue  of  Louis  XVI. 

"  Terrier  de  Monciel,  a  member  of  the  Constitutional  party.  Minister  of 
the  Interior  from  June  18  to  July  9,  1792,  endeavoured  to  organize  a  military 
force  for  the  protection  of  the  king  which  should  be  disassociated  from  the 
foreign  allies  of  the  ^mgr^g.  It  was  the  discovery  of  this  and  other  schemes 
for  the  king's  rescue,  in  which  Bertrand,  Malouet,  Mallet  du  Pan,  and  Cler- 
mont-Tonnerre  were  tlie  leaders,  that  led  to  the  disbanding  of  the  Consti- 
tutional Guard,  and  the  insurrections  of  June  20  and  August  10,  1792. 
Monciel  died  in  1831. 

'  The  Marquis  de  Bertrand-MoUeville  (1744-1818)  was  Minislre  de  la 
Marine  in  1791.  He  took  refuge  in  England  in  1792,  and  there  wrote  his 
M^moires  and  his  Histoire  de  la  Be'volution  de  France. 

*  Victor  Malouet  (1740-1814),  distinguished  by  his  explorations  and  his 
services  in  the  French  colonies  (see  his  Collection  des  Me'inoires  srtr  Vadminis- 
Iration  dcs  colonies,  Paris,  1802,  5  vols.),  was  a  bold  and  skilful  supporter  of 
Louis  XVI.  in  the  Constituent  Assemblv.     He  returned  to  France  in  1801, 


330  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

Gilliers/  Gouvernet,  Prince  de  Poix  and  Lally.  They  were  in 
Oommittee  on  their  deplorable  affairs.  For  the  sake  of  my  eyes 
I  shall  give  this  to  be  finished  by  Maria.  No  man  has  a  guess 
at  the  intentions  of  Gouvernment.  There  is  not  the  slightest 
expectation  that  they  will  take  the  least  part  in  the  affairs  of 
France.  All  those  members  of  Opposition  for  whom  you  or 
others  have  respect  are  seriously  well  disposed  to  a  junction  of 
parties,  and  I  am  convinced,  indeed  I  know,  they  would  be  very 
reasonable  in  their  expectations.  Pitt  has  said  he  could  act  in 
great  confidence  with  Fox,  notwithstanding  sparrings  which  have 
taken  place,  and  Charles  Fox  has  said  that  a  junction  is  so  right 
a  thing,  that  he  cannot  see  otherwise  than  that  it  must  take 
place.  Yet  there  are  great  difficulties,  and  I  am  not  sanguine. 
I  shall  have  no  opinion  of  Pitt's  judgment  or  disposition  if  he 
does  not  remove  them. 

Poor  Mrs.  Gibbon  was  given  over  last  week,  a  bilious  attack. 
She  has  miraculously  recovered,  but  the  man  who  has  bodily  care 
of  her,  says  she  is  so  worn,  she  cannot  pass  the  winter. 

I  should  have  added  above  that  I  fear  Fox  will  be  still 
detestable  on  the  subject  of  French  affairs.  Pitt  is  suspected  of 
Democracy,  and  it  is  said  by  some  lately  that  he  will  himself  move 
a  Plan  of  Reform  next  Sessions. 

My  Lord  is  gone  to  nurse  his  poor  dear  eyes,  and  leaves  me 
to  inform  you  of  some  of  those  extraordinary  things  to  which  I 
hardly  expect  you  to  give  credit,  but  I  shall  name  my  authorities. 
Mr.  Batt  told  us  last  Friday  that  the  Attorney  General  had  had 
information  of  the  following  event  at  Manchester,  and  that  the 
said  Attorney  General  had  mentioned  it  to  the  said  Mr.  Batt. 
A  person  (we  did  not  hear  his  name)  at  that  place  invited  a 
number  of  people  to  dinner,  among  others  the  officers  of  the 
.Scotch  Greys,  the  day  of  the  King's  Accession,  giving  them 
notice  there  would   be  a  ceremony.     When  the  company  was 

and  was  employed  by  Napoleon  in  the  administration  of  the  navy.     He  was 
appointed  Ministre  de  la  Marine  by  Louis  XVIII.  in  1814. 

'  Probably  the  Baron  de  Gilliers,  whose  estates  were  near  Romans  in 
Dauphine,  and  of  whom  Rivarol  tells  a  story  to  illustrate  the  suspicion  with 
which  every  aristocrat  was  regarded.  Suspected  of  a  royalist  plot,  the  baron 
was  charged  with  manufacturing  cannon  when  he  was  only  making  drain- 
pipes; his  house  was  occupied  by  hundreds  of  armed  men,  and  his  family 
narrowly  escaped  with  their  lives.  He  was  gentleman-in-waiting  to  Madame 
Elizabeth. 


1792.]  JACOBIN  SOCIETIES  IN  ENGLAND.  331 

assembled  there  was  an  Ass  brought  into  the  room,  dressed  iu 
a  Bhie  llibband,  Crown  and  Sceptre,  &c.,  which  after  many 
ridiculous  formalities  was  killed,  cut  in  pieces,  and  sent  to 
different  Societies  in  this  Kingdom.  I  do  not  know  if  Lewes 
had  a  portion,  but  I  know  there  is  a  Jacobin  Society  there. 
Burke  called  here  yesterday  evening  to  talk  of  a  Plan  for  per- 
manent relief  of  the  poor  priests,  giving  up  all  hopes  of  their 
returning  to  their  native  country.  He  proposed  with  the  money 
in  the  hands  of  the  Committee  (£10,000)  if  Government  would 
give  any  assistance  towards  settling  them  in  the  Crimea,  Canada 
or  Maryland,^  as  the  subscription  cannot  afford  them  subsistence 
in  this  country  for  three  months  longer. 

Mrs.  Moss  is  arrived  in  England.  Have  you  received  Lally's 
vessel  which  she  sent  you  from  Berne  ?  How  do  the  Acacias,  &c., 
flourish  upon  the  terrace  ? 


602. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

November  10th,  1792. 

'"■Received  this  day,  November  9th,  a  most  amiable  dispatch 
from  the  too  humble  secretary^  of  the  family  of  Espee,'  dated 
October  24:th,  which  I  answer  the  same  day.  It  will  be  acknow- 
ledged, that  I  have  fulfilled  my  engagement  with  as  much  accuracy 
as  our  uncertain  state  and  the  fragility  of  human  nature  would 
allow. 

I  resume  my  narrative.  At  the  time  when  we  imagined  that 
all  Avas  settled  by  an  equal  treaty  between  two  such  unequal 
powers,  as  the  G-eneva  flea  and  the  Leviathan  France,  we  were 
thunderstruck  with  the  intelligence  that  the  Ministers  of  the 
Republic  refused  to  ratify  the  conditions ;  and  they  were  indig- 
nant, with  some  colour  of  reason,  at  the  hard  obligation  of  with- 
drawing their  troops  to  the  distance  of  ten  leagues,  and  of 
consequently  leaving  the  Pays  de  Gex  naked,  and  exposed  to  the 
Swiss,  who  had  assembled  15,000  men  on  the  frontier,  and  with 

'  Burke's  plan  for  the  settlement  of  the  refugees  in  Maryland  is  discussed 
by  him  in  a  letter  to  his  son,  dated  November  2,  1792  {Correspondence,  vol.  iv. 
pp.  25,  26). 

^  Mies  Hnlrovd.  a  Sheffield  Place. 


332  GIBBON'S  COERESPONDENCE.  [1792- 

whom  they  had  not  made  any  agreement.  The  Messenger  who 
was  sent  last  Sunday  from  Geneva  is  not  yet  returned  ;  and  many 
persons  are  afi-aid  of  some  design  and  danger  in  this  delay. 
Montesquiou  has  acted  with  politeness,  moderation,  and  apparent 
sincerity ;  but  he  may  resign,  he  may  be  superseded,  his  place 
may  be  occupied  by  an  enrage^  by  Servan,  or  prince  Charles  of 
Hesse,^  who  would  aspire  to  imitate  the  predatory  fame  of  Custine 
in  Germany. 

In  the  mean  while,  the  General  holds  a  wolf  by  the  ears ; 
an  oificer  who  has  seen  his  troops,  about  18,000  men  (with  a 
tremendous  train  of  artillery),  represents  them  as  a  black, 
daring,  desperate  crew  of  buccaneers,  rather  shocking  than  con- 
temptible ;  the  officers  (scarcely  a  Gentleman  among  them),  with- 
out servants,  or  horses,  or  baggage,  lying  higgledij  piggledy  on  the 
ground  with  the  common  men,  yet  maintaining  a  rough  kind  of 
discipline  over  them.  They  already  begin  to  accuse  and  even  to 
suspect  their  General,  and  call  aloud  for  blood  and  plunder  : 
could  they  have  an  opportunity  of  squeezing  some  of  the  rich 
Citizens,  Geneva  would  cut  up  as  fat  as  most  towns  iu  Europe. 
During  this  suspension  of  hostihties  they  are  permitted  to  visit 
the  City  without  arms,  sometimes  three  or  four  hundred  at  a 
time ;  and  the  Magistrates,  as  well  as  the  Swiss  Commander,  are 
by  no  means  pleased  with  this  dangerous  intercourse,  which  they 
dare  not  prohibit.  Such  are  our  fears  ;  yet  it  should  seem  on  the 
other  side,  that  the  French  affect  a  kind  of  magnanimous  justice 
towards  their  little  neighbour,  and  that  they  are  not  ambitious  of 
an  unprofitable  contest  with  the  poor  and  hardy  Swiss.     The 

»  Joseph  Senan  (1741-1808),  author  of  the  Soldat  Citoyen  (1780), 
Minister  of  War  ia  the  Girondin  administration  (March  to  June,  1792). 
Dismissed  by  Louis  XVI.,  he  was  restored  to  his  oflSee  after  August  10, 
1792.  He  resigned  his  post  in  October,  1792,  and  afterwards  commanded 
the  troops  which  opposed  the  march  of  the  Spaniards  upon  Bayonne  in 
April,  1793. 

^  Prince  Cliarles  of  Hesse-Kheinfels-Rothenbm-g  (1752-1821)  entered 
tlie  French  service  as  a  young  man.  He  was  made  a  lieutenant-general  in 
1792,  and  took  up  the  command  at  Be8an5on,  where  he  was  received  with 
enthusiasm  as  the  citoyen-g^n^ral-pMlosophe.  He  accompanied  his  words 
with  gestures  which  were  almost  convulsive  in  their  violence,  and  closed 
his  sentences  by  grinding  his  teeth,  "  un  tigre  done'  de  la  parole."  As  a 
journalist  (1795-99)  he  came  into  collision  with  the  Government,  and  was 
imprisoned  for  several  years  in  the  island  of  Riio.  He  died  at  Frankfort 
in  1821. 


1792.]       ENGLAND  THE  LAST   KEFUGE  OF  LIBERTY.         333 

Swiss  are  not  equal  to  a  loncj  and  expensive  War  ;  and  as  most  of 
our  Militia  have  families  and  trades,  the  country  ah-eady  sighs  for 
their  return.  Whatever  can  bo  yielded,  without  absolute  danger 
or  disgrace,  will  doubtless  be  granted  ;  and  the  business  Avill 
probably  end  in  our  owning  the  Sovereignty,  and  trusting  to  the 
good  faith  of  the  Republic  of  France :  how  that  word  would 
have  sounded  four  years  ago  !  The  measure  is  humiliating  ;  but 
after  the  retreat  of  the  Duke  of  Brunswick,  and  the  failure  of  the 
Austrians,  the  smaller  powers  may  acquiesce  without  dishonour. 

Every  dog  has  his  day ;  and  these  Gallic  dogs  have  their  day,  at 
least,  of  most  insolent  prosperity.  After  forcing  or  tempting  the 
Prussians  to  evacuate  their  country,  they  conquer  Savoy,  pillage 
Germany,  threaten  Spain  :  the  Low  Countries  are  ere  now  invaded  ; 
Rome  and  Italy  tremble  ;  they  scour  the  Mediterranean,  and  talk 
of  sending  a  squadron  into  the  South  Sea.  The  whole  horizon  is 
so  black,  that  I  begin  to  feel  some  anxiety  for  England,  the  last 
refuge  of  liberty  and  law ;  and  the  more  so,  as  I  perceive  from 
Lord  S.'s  last  epistle  that  his  firm  nerves  are  a  little  shaken  ; 
but  of  this  more  in  my  next,  for  I  want  to  unburthen  my 
conscience. 

If  England,  with  the  experience  of  our  happiness  and  French 
calamities,  should  now  be  seduced  to  eat  the  apple  of  false  freedom, 
we  should  indeed  deserve  to  be  driven  from  the  paradise  which 
we  enjoy.  I  turn  aside  from  the  horrid  and  improbable,  (yet  not 
impossible)  supposition,  that,  in  three  or  four  years'  time,  myself 
and  my  best  friends  may  be  reduced  to  the  deplorable  state  of  the 
French  emigrants  :  they  thought  it  as  impossible  three  or  four 
years  ago.  Never  did  a  revolution  affect,  to  such  a  degree,  the 
private  existence  of  such  numbers  of  the  first  people  of  a  great 
Country  :  your  examples  of  misery  I  could  easily  match  with 
similar  examples  in  this  country  and  the  neighbourhood  ;  and  our 
sympathy  is  the  deeper,  as  we  do  not  possess,  like  you,  the  means 
of  alleviating,  in  some  degree,  the  misfortunes  of  the  fugitives. 
But  I  must  have,  from  the  very  excellent  pen  of  the  Maria,  the 
tragedy  of  the  Archbishop  of  Aries ;  and  the  longer  the  better. 
Madame  de  Biron  has  probably  been  tempted  by  some  faint  and 
(I  fear)  fallacious  promises  of  clemency  to  the  Women,  and  which 
have  likewise  engaged  Madame  d'Aguesseau  and  her  two  daughters^ 

'  Ilenriette  d'Agnessau,  who  married  the  Due  d'Ayen,  was,  like  Madame 
de  Biron,  guillotined. 


334  GIBBON'S  COERESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

to  revisit  France.  Madame  de  Bouillon  ^  stands  licr  ground,  and 
her  situation  as  a  foreign  princess  is  less  exposed.  As  Lord  S. 
has  assumed  the  glorious  character  of  protector  of  the  distressed, 
his  name  is  pronounced  with  gratitude  and  respect.  The  D.  of 
Richmond  is  praised,  on  Madame  de  Biron's  account.  To  the 
Princess  d'Henin,  and  Lally,  I  wish  to  be  remembered. 

The  N"eckers  cannot  venture  into  Geneva,  and  Madame  de 
Stael  will  probably  lye  in  at  Eolle.  He  is  printing  a  defence  of 
the  King,  &c.,  against  their  Eepublican  Judges ;  -  but  the  name 
of  Necker  is  unpopular  to  all  parties,  and  I  much  fear  that  the 
Guillotine  will  be  more  speedy  than  tlie  press.  It  will,  however, 
be  an  eloquent  performance ;  and,  if  I  find  an  opportunity,  I 
am  to  send  you  one,  to  you.  Lord  S.,  by  his  particular  desire  : 
he  wishes  likewise  to  convey  some  copies  with  speed  to  our 
prmcipal  people,  Pitt,  Fox,  Lord  Stormont,  &c.  But  such  is  the 
rapid  succession  of  events,  that  it  will  appear,  like  the  '  Pouvoir 
Executif,'  his  best  Work,  after  the  whole  scene  has  been  totally 
changed.* 

Shall  you  never  be  able  to  place  my  £3000  on  good  Security  ? 
Was  there  ever  before  a  two  years' fruitless  chace' after  a  Mort- 
gage ?  We  are  in  hot  pursuit  from  all  quarters  of  my  Madeira, 
and  unless  already  drunk  by  the  Hussars  it  must  emerge. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

P.S. — *The  Revolution  of  France,  and  my  triple  dispatch  by 
the  same  post  to  Sheffield-place,  are,  in  my  opinion,  the  two  most 
singular  events  in  the  eighteenth  Century.  I  found  the  task  so 
easy  and  pleasant,  that  I  had  some  thoughts  of  adding  a  letter 
to  the  gentle  Louisa.*  And  a  note  to  the  most  respectable  Tuft. 
I  should  not  have  forgot  ]\Iiss  Firth,  but  I  hear  she  is  leaving 
you.  Is  she  going  to  be  married  ?  *I  am  this  moment  informed, 
that  our  troops  on  the  frontier  are  beginning  to  move,  on  their 
return  home ;  yet  we  hear  nothing  of  the  treaty's  being  con- 
cluded."' 

•  Marie,  Princess  of  Hesse-Rheinfelz,  married  the  Due  de  Bouillon,  the 
head,  and  last  direct  representative,  of  the  family  of  La  Tour  d'Anvergue. 
She  was  by  her  marriage  connected  with  the  Princesae  de  Poix,  and  her 
cousin,  the  Princease  d'Henin.  The  three  ladies  were  known  as  les  trots 
frincesses  comhin^es.   Madame  de  Bouillon  and  her  husband  both  died  in  exile. 

*  Necker's  Beflexions  offertes  a  la  nation  francaise  appeared  in  November, 
1792. 


1792.]  NEITHER  MONSTER  NOR  STATUE.  335 

603. 

To  Lady  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  November  10,  1792. 

*I  could  never  forgive  myself,  were  I  capable  of  writing  by  the 
same  post,  a  political  Epistle  to  the  father,  and  a  friendly  letter 
to  the  daughter,  without  sending  any  token  of  remembrance  to 
the  respectable  Matron,  my  dearest  My  lady,  whom  I  have  now 
loved  as  a  sister  for  something  better  or  worse  than  twenty  years. 
No,  indeed,  the  historian  may  be  careless,  he  may  be  indolent,  he 
may  always  intend  and  never  execute,  but  he  is  neither  a  monster 
nor  a  statue ;  he  has  a  memory,  a  conscience,  a  heart,  and  that 
heart  is  sincerely  devoted  to  Lady  S.  He  must  even  acknowledge 
the  fallacy  of  a  sophism  which  he  has  sometimes  used,  and  she 
has  always  and  most  truly  denied ;  that,  where  the  persons  of  a 
family  are  strictly  united,  the  writing  to  one  is  in  fact  writing  to 
all ;  and  that  consequently  all  his  numerous  letters  to  the  husband, 
may  be  considered  as  equally  addressed  to  the  wife.  He  feels,  on 
the  contrary,  that  separate  minds  have  their  distinct  ideas  and 
sentiments,  and  that  each  character,  either  in  speaking  or  writing, 
has  its  peculiar  tone  of  conversation.  He  agrees  with  the  maxim 
of  Kousseau,  that  three  friends  who  wish  to  disclose  a  common 
secret,  will  impart  it  only  deux  a  deux ;  and  he  is  satisfied  that, 
on  the  present  memorable  occasion,  each  of  the  persons  of  the 
Sheffield  family  will  claim  a  peculiar  share  in  this  triple  missive, 
which  will  communicate,  however,  a  triple  satisfaction.  The 
experience  of  what  may  be  effected  by  vigorous  resolution,  en- 
courages the  historian  to  hope  that  he  shall  cast  the  skin  of  the 
old  serpent,  and  hereafter  show  himself  as  a  new  creature.* 

And  first  let  me  congratulate  yourself  and  your  friends  on  the 
present  happy  state  of  your  mental  and  corporeal  faculties,  of  which 
I  have  gained  the  pleasing  intelligence,  not  only  from  the  hints 
in  Lord  S.  and  Maria's  letters,  but  still  more  clearly  from  your 
own  long  and  spirited  Epistle  to  young  Severy,  which  he  received 
with  gratitude  and  will  answer  with  speed. 

*I  lament,  on  all  our  accounts,  that  the  last  year's  expedition 
to  Lausanne  did  not  take  place  in  a  golden  period  ;  *  the  more 
familiar  and  cheerful  intercourse  with  Madame  de  Severy  would 
have  opened  your  hearts  to  each  other.    I  should  have  escaped 


336  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

many  moments  of  painful  though  silent  sympathy,  and  every 
object  in  Nature  and  society  would  have  appeared  to  your  eyes 
with  a  different  aspect  and  colour.  *But  we  must  reflect,  that 
human  felicity  is  seldom  without  alloy  ;  and  if  we  cannot  indulge 
the  hope  of  your  making  a  second  visit  to  Lausanne,  we  must 
look  forwards  to  my  residence  next  summer  at  Sheffield-place, 
where  I  must  find  you  in  the  full  bloom  of  health,  spirits,  and 
beauty.  I  can  perceive,  by  all  public  and  private  intelligence, 
that  your  house  has  been  the  open  hospital  Azylum  of  French 
fugitives ;  and  it  is  a  sufficient  proof  of  the  firmness  of  your 
nerves,  that  you  have  not  been  overwhelmed  or  agitated  by  such 
a  concourse  of  strangers.  Curiosity  and  compassion  may,  in  some 
degree,  have  supported  you.  Every  day  has  presented  to  your 
view  some  new  scene  of  that  strange  tragical  romance,  which 
occupies  all  Europe  so  infinitely  beyond  any  event  that  has 
happened  in  our  time,  and  you  have  the  satisfaction  of  not  being 
a  mere  spectator  of  the  distress  of  so  many  victims  of  false  liberty. 
The  benevolent  fame  of  Lord  S.  is  widely  diffused. 

From  Angletine's  last  letter  to  Maria,  you  have  already  some 
idea  of  the  melancholy  state  of  her  poor  father.  As  long  as  Mr. 
de  Severy  allowed  our  hopes  and  fears  to  fluctuate  with  the 
changes  of  his  disorder,  I  was  unwilling  to  say  anything  on  so 
painful  a  subject ;  and  it  is  with  the  deepest  concern  that  I  now 
confess  om-  absolute  despair  of  his  recovery.  All  his  particular 
complaints  are  now  lost  in  a  general  dissolution  of  the  whole 
frame  :  every  principle  of  life  is  exhausted,  and  as  often  as  I  am 
admitted  to  his  bed-side,  though  he  still  looks  and  smiles  with 
the  patience  of  an  Angel,  I  have  the  heartfelt  grief  of  seeing  him 
each  day  drawing  nearer  to  the  term  of  his  existence.  A  few 
weeks,  possibly  a  few  days,  will  deprive  me  of  a  most  excellent 
friend,  and  break  for  ever  the  most  perfect  system  of  domestic 
happiness,  in  which  I  had  so  large  and  intimate  a  share.  Wilhelm 
(who  has  obtained  leave  of  absence  from  his  military  duty)  and 
his  sister  behave  and  feel  like  tender  and  dutiful  children ;  but 
they  have  a  long  gay  prospect  of  life,  and  new  connexions,  new 
families  will  make  them  forget,  in  due  time,  the  common  lot  of 
mortality.  But  it  is  Madame  de  Severy  whom  I  truly  pity ;  I 
dread  the  effects  of  the  first  shock,  and  I  dread  still  more  the 
deep  perpetual  consuming  affliction  for  a  loss  which  can  never  be 
retrieved. 


1792.]  GIBBON'S  ALTERED  SITUATION.  337 

You  will  not  wonder  that  such  reflections  sadden  my  own 
mind,  nor  can  I  forget  how  much  my  situation  is  altered 
since  I  retired,  nine  years  ago,  to  the  banks  of  the  Lcman  lake. 
The  death  of  poor  Deyverdun  first  deprived  me  of  a  domestic 
companion,  who  can  never  be  supplied  ;  and  your  visit  has  only 
served  to  remind  me  that  man,  however  amused  and  occupied  in 
his  Closet,  was  not  made  to  live  alone.  Severy  will  soon  be  no 
more ;  his  widow  for  a  long  time,  perhaps  for  ever,  will  be  lost 
to  herself  and  her  friends,  the  son  will  travel,  and  I  shall  be  left 
a  stranger  in  the  insipid  circle  of  mere  common  acquaintance. 
The  Revolution  of  France,  which  first  embittered  and  divided 
the  Society  of  Lausanne,  has  opposed  a  barrier  to  my  Sussex  visit, 
and  may  finally  expell  me  from  the  paradise  which  I  inhabit. 
Even  that  paradise,  the  expensive  and  delightful  establishment  of 
my  house,  library,  and  garden,  almost  becomes  an  incumbrance, 
by  rendering  it  more  difficult  for  me  to  relinquish  my  hold,  or 
to  form  a  new  system  of  life  in  my  native  Country,  for  which  my 
income,  though  improved  and  improving,  would  be  probably 
insufficient.  But  every  complaint  should  be  silenced  by  the 
contemplation  of  the  French ;  compared  with  whose  cruel  fate, 
all  misery  is  relative  happiness.  I  perfectly  concurr  in  your 
partiality  for  Lally ;  though  Nature  might  forget  some  meaner 
ingredients,  of  prudence,  economy,  &c.,  she  never  formed  a  purer 
heart,  or  a  brighter  imagination.  If  he  be  with  you,  I  beg  my 
kindest  salutations  to  him.  I  am  every  day  more  closely  united 
with  the  Neckers.  Should  France  break,  and  this  country  be 
over-run,  they  would  be  reduced,  in  very  humble  circumstances, 
to  seek  a  refuge  ;  and  where  but  in  England  ?  Adieu,  dear 
Madam :  there  is,  indeed,  much  pleasure  in  discharging  one's 
heart  to  a  real  friend.* 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

604. 

To  the  Hon.  Maria  HoJroyd. 

Lausanne,  Nov.  10,  1792. 
In  dispatching  the  weekly  political  journal  to  Lord  Sheffield, 
my  conscience   (for  I  have  some  remains  of  conscience)  most 
powerfully  urges  me  to  salute,  with  some  lines  of  friendship  and 

VOL.  II.  z 


338  GIBBON'S  COREESPONDENOE.  [1792. 

gratitude,  the  amiable  secretary,  who  might  save  herself  the 
trouble  of  a  modest  apology.  I  have  not  yet  forgotten  our 
different  behaviour  after  the  much  lamented  separation  of 
October  the  4th,  1791,  your  meritorious  punctuality,  and  my 
unworthy  silence.  I  have  still  before  me  that  entertaining 
narrative,  which  would  have  interested  me,  not  only  in  the  pro- 
gress of  the  carissima  famiglia,  but  in  the  motions  of  a  Tartar 
camp,  or  the  march  of  a  caravan  of  Arabs ;  the  mixture  of  just 
observation  and  lively  imagery,  the  strong  sense  of  a  man, 
expressed  with  the  easy  elegance  of  a  female.  I  still  recollect 
with  pleasure  the  happy  comparison  of  the  Rhine,  who  had  heard 
so  much  of  liberty  on  both  his  banks,  that  he  wandered  with, 
mischievous  licentiousness  over  all  the  adjacent  meadows.  The 
inundation,  alas  !  has  now  spread  much  wider  ;  and  it  is  sadly  to 
be  feared  that  the  Elbe,  the  Po,  and  the  Danube,  may  imitate  the 
vile  example  of  the  Rhine  :  I  shall  be  content,  however,  if  our 
own  Thames  still  preserves  his  fair  character  of 

Strong  without  rage,  without  o'erflowing  full. 

These  agreeable  epistles  of  Maria  produced  only  some  dumb 
intentions,  and  some  barren  remorse  ;  nor  have  I  deigned,  except 
by  a  brief  missive  from  my  chancellor,  to  express  how  much  I 
loved  the  author,  and  how  much  I  was  pleased  with  the  composi- 
tion. That  amiable  author  I  have  known  and  loved  from  the 
first  dawning  of  her  life  and  coquetry,  to  the  present  maturity  of 
her  talents  ;  and  as  long  as  I  remain  on  this  planet,  I  shall  pursue, 
with  the  same  tender  and  even  anxious  concern,  the  future  steps 
of  her  establishment  and  life.  That  establishment  must  be 
splendid  ;  that  life  must  be  happy.  She  is  endowed  with  every 
gift  of  nature  and  fortune  ;  but  the  advantage  which  she  will 
derive  from  them,  depends  almost  entirely  on  herself.  You  must 
not,  you  shall  not,  think  yourself  unworthy  to  -write  to  any  man  : 
there  is  none  whom  your  coiTespondence  would  not  amuse  and 
satisfy. 

I  will  not  undertake  a  task,  which  my  taste  would  adopt,  and 
my  indolence  would  too  soon  relinquish  ;  but  I  am  really  curious, 
from  the  best  motives,  to  have  a  particular  account  of  your  own 
studies  and  daily  occupation.  "What  books  do  you  read  ?  and 
how  do  you  employ  your  time  and  your  pen  ?  Except  some  pro- 
fessed scholars,  I  have  often  observed  that  women  in  general  read 


1792.]  SOCIETY  OF  LADY  E.   FOSTER.  J539 

much  more  than  men  ;  but,  for  want  of  a  plan,  a  method,  a  fixed 
object,  their  reading  is  of  httle  benefit  to  themselves,  or  others. 
If  you  will  inform  me  of  the  species  of  reading  to  which  you  have 
the  most  propensity,  I  shall  be  happy  to  contribute  my  share  of 
advice  or  assistance. 

I  lament  that  you  have  not  left  me  some  monument  of  your 
pencil.  Lady  Elizabeth  Foster  has  executed  a  very  pretty  drawing, 
taken  from  the  door  of  the  green-house  where  we  dined  last 
summer,  and  including  the  poor  Acacia,  (now  recovered  from  the 
cruel  shears  of  the^'gardener,)  the  end  of  the  terrace,  the  front 
of  the  Pavilion,  and  a  distant  view  of  the  country,  lake,  and 
mountains.  I  am  almost  reconciled  to  d'Apples'  house,  which  is 
nearly  finished.  Instead  of  the  monsters  which  Lord  Hercules 
Sheffield  extirpated,  the  terrace  is  already  shaded  with  the  new 
acacias  and  plantanes  ;  and  although  the  uncertainty  of  possession 
restrains  me  from  building,  I  myself  have  planted  a  bosquet  at . 
the  bottom  of  the  garden,  with  such  admirable  skill  that  it  affords 
shade  without  intercepting  prospect. 

The  society  of  the  aforesaid  Eliza,  of  the  Duchess  of  Devon- 
shire, &c.  has  been  very  interesting  ;  but  they  are  now  flown 
beyond  the  Alps,  and  pass  the  winter  at  Pisa.  The  Legards,  who 
have  long  since  left  this  place,  should  be  at  present  in  Italy  ;  but 
I  believe  Mrs.  Grimstone  and  her  daughter  returned  to  England. 
The  Levades  are  highly  flattered  by  your  remembrance.  Since 
you  still  retain  some  attachment  to  this  dehghtful  country,  and 
it  is  indeed  delightful,  why  should  you  despair  of  seeing  it  once 
more  ?  The  happy  peer  or  commoner,  whose  name  you  may 
assume,  is  still  concealed  in  the  book  of  fate  ;  but,  whosoever  he 
may  be,  he  will  cheerfully  obey  your  commands,  of  leading  you 

from Castle  to  Lausanne,  and  from  Lausanne  to  Rome  - 

and  Naples.  Before  that  event  takes  place,  I  may  possibly  see 
you  in  Sussex  ;  and,  whether  as  a  visitor  or  a  fugitive,  I  hope  to 
be  welcomed  with  a  friendly  embrace.  The  delay  of  this  year 
was  truly  painful,  but  it  was  inevitable  ;  and  individuals  must 
submit  to  those  storms  which  have  overturned  the  thrones  of  the 
earth. 

The  tragic  story  of  the  Archbishop  of  Aries  I  have  now  some- 
what a  better  right  to  require  at  your  hands.  I  wish  to  have  it 
in  all  its  horrid  details ;  and  as  you  are  now  so  much  mingled 
with  the  French  exiles,  I  am  of  opinion,  that  were  you  to  keep  a 


340  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

journal  of  all  the  authentic  facts  which  they  relate,  it  would  be  an 
agreeable  exercise  at  present,  and  a  future  source  of  entertain- 
ment and  instruction. 

I  should  be  obliged  to  you,  if  you  would  make,  or  find,  some 
excuse  for  my  not  answering  a  letter  from  your  aunt,  which  was 
presented  to  me  by  Mr.  Fowler.  I  shewed  him  some  civilities, 
but  he  is  now  a  poor  invalid,  confined  to  his  room.  By  her 
channel  and  yours  I  should  be  glad  to  have  some  information  of 
the  health,  spirits,  and  situation  of  Mrs.  Gibbon  of  Bath,  whose 
alarms  (if  she  has  any)  you  may  dispel.  She  is  in  my  debt. 
Adieu  ;  most  truly  yours. 

605. 

The  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Sheffield  Place,  November,  1792. 

Your  three  letters  received  yesterday  caused  the  most  sincere 
pleasure  to  each  individual  of  this  family  so  highly  favoured  by 
you — but  to  none  more  than  myself.  I  flatter  myself  that  I 
despise  general  compliments  as  they  deserve,  but  praise  (tho'  I 
fear,  beyond  my  deserts)  from  one  whose  opinion  I  so  highly  value, 
and  whose  esteem  I  so  much  wish  to  gain,  is  more  pleasing  than 
I  can  describe,  &  I  really  think,  thus  encouraged,  &  with  your 
example  before  me,  to  shew  bad  habits  may  be  conquered.  I  had 
not  neglected  to  make  the  collection  of  facts  which  you  recom- 
mend, and  which  the  great  variety  of  unfortunate  persons  whom 
we  see,  or  with  whom  we  correspond,  enables  me  to  make. 

As  to  the  other  part  of  your  letter  about  my  studies,  I 
can  only  say,  the  slightest  hint  on  that  subject  will  be  always 
received  with  the  greatest  gratitude,  and  attended  to  with 
the  utmost  punctuality.  French  history  I  am  most  acquainted 
with — English,  I  am  ashamed  to  say,  I  am  much  less  versed  in. 
I  have  read  Hume,  but  not  since  I  came  to  years  of  discretion,  & 
what  is  read  as  a  task  seldom  is  well  attended  to.  I  am  now 
reading  a  certain  work,  in  6  Vols.  Quarto  or  12  Duodecimo,  which 
I  was  acquainted  with  before,  only  by  reading  it  after  supper, 
frequently  with  long  interruptions  caused  by  Company,  &c.,  & 
which  only  raised  my  curiosity  to  give  it  more  attention.  It 
would  be  Impertinence  or  at  best  but  a  Drop  in  the  Ocean  to  add 


1792]        MURDER  OF  THE  ARCUBISIIOP  OF  ARLES.  311 

my  mite  to  the  opinion  of  the  generality  of  the  "World,  &  say 
how  much  the  Subject  interests  or  the  Style  delights  me.  When 
this  work  is  read  thro',  I  intend  to  proceed  with  English  history. 
I  again  repeat,  if  you  condescend  to  favour  me  Avith  any  directions 
on  this  subject,  I  shall  follow  them  with  the  greatest  pleasure  ; 
but  if  you  should  not,  I  am  much  flattered  that  you  should  desire 
to  hear  from  me,  &  should  have  sent  you  the  horrid  account  of 
the  massacre  aux  Carmes  before,  if  I  had  thought  you  would  have 
been  desirous  of  it.  I  have  not  seen  the  details  in  any  ne>vs- 
paper,  &  one  of  the  eight  Priests,  who  dined  here,  &  had  escaped, 
from  the  massacre,  related  the  whole  with  such  simplicity  & 
feeling,  as  to  leave  no  doubt  of  the  truth  of  all  he  said. 

On  the  2''  of  Sep**"  they  went  into  the  garden,  as  usual,  to 
walk  at  five  o'clock  in  the  evening.  They  expressed  their  sur- 
prize at  several  large  pits,  which  had  been  digging  for  two  or  three 
days  past.  They  said  to  each  other,  "  The  day  is  almost  spent, 
&  yet  Manuel  ^  told  a  person  who  interceded  for  us,  last  Thursday, 
that  on  the  Sunday  following  not  one  should  remain  in  captivity 
— we  are  still  Prisoners."  Soon  after,  they  heard  shouts,  and  some 
musquet  shots  were  fired  into  the  Garden.  A  number  of  National 
Guards,  some  Commissaires  de  Sections,  &  several  Marseillois, 
rushed  in.  The  unhappy  victims  who  were  dispersed  about  the 
Garden,  assembled  under  the  Walls  of  the  Church,  not  daring 
to  enter,  least  it  should  be  polluted  with  blood.  One,  who  was 
behind  the  rest,  was  shot  dead.  Foint  de  coups  de  fusil  said  some 
of  the  Chiefs  of  the  assassins,  thinking  this  death  too  merciful. 
A  number  of  them  called  for  the  Archbishop  of  Aries,"  &  in- 
sisted that  he  should  be  given  up  to  them,  the  Priests  all  crowded 
round  him,  &  determined  to  defend  him  with  their  Lives.  The 
Archbishop  then  said,  "  Let  me  pass  ;  if  we  must  all  perish,  it  is 
of  little  consequence  whether  I  die  first  or  not,  &  if  my  death 
will  appease  them,  is  it  not  my  duty  to  preserve  your  Lives  at 
the  expense  of  my  own  ?  "  He  asked  the  eldest  of  the  Priests 
to  give  him  Absolution — he  knelt  to  receive  it,  &  when  he  rose, 
advanced,  with  his  arms  crossed  on  his  breast,  towards  the  People. 

*  Louis  Pierre  Manuel  (1751-1793)  was  one  of  the  leaders  in  the  insur- 
rections of  Juno  20  and  August  10,  1792.  He  was  at  this  time  procureur 
of  the  Commune  of  Paris.  At  the  king's  trial  he  defended  Louis  XVI.,  and, 
accused  of  being  a  counter-revolutionist,  was  guillotined  in  November,  1793. 

*  Jean  Marie  Frangois  Dulau. 


342  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

His  appearance  was  so  dignified  &  noble,  that  for  ten  minutes 
not  one  of  these  Wretches  had  courage  to  raise  their  hand  against 
him.  They  reproached  each  other  with  cowardice  &  advanced — 
one  look  from  the  venerable  Prelate  struck  them  with  involuntary 
awe,  &  they  retired.  At  last,  one  of  the  assassins  struck  off  his 
Cap  with  a  Pike — their  fury  returned  when  they  saw  respect  once 
violated,  &  another  struck  him  on  the  head  with  a  Sabre,  & 
laid  open  his  scalp.  The  Archbishop  only  said,  "  0  mon  Dieu  !  " 
A  put  up  his  right  hand  to  his  eyes.  A  second  blow  cut  off 
this  hand — he  repeated  his  exclamation  &  raised  the  other.  A 
third  stroke  left  him  sitting,  &  a  fourth  extended  him  lifeless, 
when  all  the  Miscreants  pressed  forwards,  to  bury  their  Poniards 
in  his  bosom. 

The  Priests  all  agreed  that  the  Archbishop  of  Aries  was 
one  of  the  most  amiable  men  in  France — his  only  crime  was 
having  parted  with  most  of  his  private  fortune  to  support 
the  necessitous  Clergy  of  his  Diocese,  since  the  beginning  of 
the  Revolution.  When  he  was  murdered,  the  National  Guards 
made  all  the  Priests  go  into  the  Church,  telling  them  they  should 
appear,  one  after  another,  before  the  Commissaires  du  Section, 
who  would  try  them  and  determine  their  fate.  They  had 
hardly  entered,  before  the  People  impatiently  called  for  them  to 
shew  themselves — upon  which,  all  kneeling  before  the  Altar, 
they  received  Absolution  from  the  B"  of  Beauvais — &  then,  two 
by  two,  passed  before  one  of  the  commissaires,  who  did  not 
question,  but  only  counted  his  victims.  In  this  manner,  perished 
120  Priests,  amongst  whom  were  the  Bishops  of  Beauvais  and 
Xaintes,  both  of  the  Eochefoucauld  family.^  Our  friends  escaped 
by  getting  over  the  Wall. 

I  am  afraid  I  have  tired  your  patience,  &  that  you  did  not 
expect  such  a  tedious  history.  Mad®.  d'Henin  &  Pauline  are  at 
Boulogne  ;  they  have  gained  nothing  by  going  there,  &  are 
afraid  they  may  find  it  difficult  returning  to  England.  The 
seal  of  the  Nation  is  put  on  all  Mad^  d'Henin's  effects ;  she  is 
not  able  to  keep  a  single  servant — she  says,  Pauline  &  she  must 
wait  on  each  other.  Papa,  who  is  more  alarmed  than  I  ever 
saw  him,  will  write  to  you  soon,  jioliiicaJhj.  Mama  will  likewise 
answer  your  letter,  &  in  the  mean  time  desires  many  thanks  for 

'  They  were  brothers,  and  belonged  to  the  family  of  Rochefoucauld- 
Bayers. 


1792.]  A   FOOLISH   GAME   IN   IRELAND.  343 

it.  Will  you  say  everything  affectionate  to  Angletine  for  her 
letter  ?  I  feel  sincerely  for  the  situation  of  that  family,  &  if 
you  can  send  any  good  news  of  M.  de  Severy's  amendment,  I 
trust  you  will  write.  It  was  particularly  kind  of  Angletine  to 
write  when  her  mind  must  be  so  ill  at  ease — but  it  is  not  flung 
away  upon  me.  I  am  anything  but  une  Inyrate.  Mrs.  Moss  is 
here,  &  speaks  with  delight  of  your  house,  your  terrace,  &  of 
the  great  civility  you  shewed  her.  Judge  if  Lausanne  is  ever  the 
subject  of  our  conversation. 

We  left  Louisa  &  Aunt  at  Bath  very  well,  they  both  desire 
to  be  remembered  to  you  when  we  wrote.  Mrs.  Gibbon  looks 
as  well  as  ever,  but  is  really  very  unwell. 


606. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Bristol,  14th  Nov.,  1792. 

I  snatch  an  interval  likely  to  be  very  short,  to  acknowledge 
you  have  some  merit  in  a  14th  day  epistle,  although  you  fasted 
as  to  your  7th  day.     I  was  glad  to  hear  of  the  agreement  on  the 
subject  of  Geneva.     As  the  French  troops  were  immediately  to 
return  10  leagues,  and  before  the  evacuation,  I  think  it  honour- 
able, but  my  political  barometer   never  was  so   low.     During 
the  last  35  years  on  no  occasion  it  had  materially  sunk.     It 
never  experienced  any  great  depression  till  the  wonderful  and  in 
some  degree  inexplicable  phenomena  of  the  later  part  of  last 
September.     I  had  some  hope  that  Europe  would  see  the  necessity 
of  making  a  common  cause  against  the  Disturbers  of  the  World. 
But  I  have  not  a  ray  of  hope.     The  failure  of   the  combined 
army  has  of  course  encouraged  and  increased  a  bad  spirit  in  this 
country,  but  it  has  not  as  yet  shewn  itself  except  in  some  towns. 
And  in  such,  mischief  always  begins.    The  respectable  and  con- 
siderable men  of  both  parties  among  my  constituents  are  right. 
Government  had  risked  a  foolish  game  in  Ireland,  playing  Koman 
Catholics  against  Protestants,  and  openly  supporting  the  former, 
granting  too  much,  and  giving  further  hopes,  which  has  produced 
sedition  and  brought  them  to  the  brink  of  rebellion,  but  within 
a  few  weeks  it  has  been  deteimined  to  go  no  farther  and   to 


344  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

support  the  Protestant  Ascendency— better  late  than  never,  but 
some  knocks  probably  will  ensue. 

I  believe  I  forgot  to  assure  you  in  my  last  that  Newspaper 
account  of  our  friend  Lord  L.^  and  his  acceptance  of  Seals  is 
premature,  and  that  there  is  no  prospect  of  such  an  event  unless 
with  the  concurrence  and  accession  of  the  Mass  of  the  party. 
I  rather  suspect  some  of  our  friends  have  more  of  the  shew  than 
the  reality,  of  wishing  or  expecting,  or  promoting  healthy  con- 
junction of  parties — but  they  are  few. 

I  scolded  you  about  the  Madeira  because  I  thought  it  lost 
thro'  your  neglect  of  writing,  but  I  have  the  pleasure  of 
finding  that  it  was  only  delayed,  and  is  now  on  its  road.  So 
writes  Muligan's  correspondent  in  Holland.  I  shall  send  this  to 
Maria  to  finish.     My  eyes  are  very  weak. 

I  do  not  know  what  to  add  to  Papa's  croahing  Epistle,  except 
to  ask  if  you  will  give  us  an  Asylum  at  Lausanne  when  this 
country  is  in  the  state  of  France.  If  you  should  answer  in 
the  affirmative,  I  am  afraid  you  would  make  me  an  enemy  to 
my  country  and  wish  it  very  ill.  /  think  Papa  very  ungrateful 
for  your  very  great  kindness  and  attention  in  writing  so 
frequently— at  a  time  so  very  interesting,  but  I  believe  he  is 
afraid  of  praising  you  too  much,  least  you  should  think  you  have 
done  enough.  If  you  were  a  witness  of  the  pleasure  your  letters 
give  all  the  family,  I  think  you  would  not  talk  of  sinking  into 
a  long  and  irreproachalle  silence.  Mama  assures  me  you  will 
not  write  to  me.  Pray  make  her  say  the  thing  that  is  not,  for 
once  in  her  life.  We  leave  Bath  next  Sunday,  after  having 
enjoyed  the  gaieties  of  the  place  a  fortnight.  Louisa  is  to 
remain  here  all  the  Winter.  She  desires  to  be  particularly  remem- 
bered to  you.  Switzerland  is  our  daily  subject  of  conversation, 
and  regret.     Witness  our  hands  this  15th  day  of  November. 

Maria  Josepha  Holroyd, 
Louisa  Dorothea  Holroyd. 

»  Lord  Loughborough  accepted  the  Great  Seal  as  Lord  Chancellor  ia 
January,  1793. 


1792.]  FLIGHT  OF  A  FRENCH  GENERAL.  345 


607. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Nov.  25th,  1792. 

*After  the  triple  labour  of  my  last  dispatch,  your  experience 
of  the  creature  might  tempt  you  to  suspect  that  it  would  again 
relapse  into  a  long  slumber.  But,  partly  from  the  spirit  of  con- 
tradiction, (though  I  am  not  a  lady)  and  partly  from  the  ease  and 
pleasure  which  I  now  find  in  the  task,  you  see  me  again  alive, 
awake,  and  almost  faithful  to  my  hebdomadal  promise.  The  last 
week  has  not,  however,  afforded  any  events  deserving  the  notice 
of  an  historian.  Our  affairs  are  still  floating  on  the  waves  of  the 
convention,  and  the  ratification  of  a  corrected  treaty,^  which  had 
been  fixed  for  the  20th,  is  not  yet  arrived  ;  but  the  report  of  the 
diplomatic  committee  has  been  favourable,  and  it  is  generally 
understood  that  the  leaders  of  the  French  Republic  do  not  wish 
to  quarrel  with  the  Swiss.  We  are  gradually  withdrawing  and 
disbanding  our  militia.  Geneva  will  be  left  to  sink  or  swim, 
according  to  the  humour  of  the  people  ;  and  our  last  hope  appears 
to  be,  that  by  submission  and  good  behaviour  we  shall  avert  for 
some  time  the  impending  storm. 

A  few  days  ago,  an  odd  incident  happened  in  the  French 
army  ;  the  desertion  of  the  general.  As  the  Neckers  were  sitting, 
about  eight  o'clock  in  the  evening,  in  their  drawing-room  at 
Rolle,  the  door  flew  open,  and  they  were  astounded  by  their 
servant's  announcing  Jlonsieur  le  General  de  Montesqidou !  On 
the  receipt  of  some  secret  intelligence  of  a  decret  d* accusation^ 
and  an  order  to  arrest  him,  he  had  only  time  to  get  on  horse- 
back, to  gallop  through  Geneva,  to  take  boat  for  Coppet,  and 
to  escape  from  his  pursuers,  who  were  ordered  to  seize  him 
alive  or  dead.  He  left  the  Neckers  after  supper,  passed  through 
Lausanne  in  the  night,  and  proceeded  to  Berne  and  Basle, 
whence  he  intended  to  wind  his  way  through  Germany,  amidst 
enemies  of  every  description,  and  to  seek  a  refuge  in  England, 
America,  or  the  moon.  He  told  Necker,  that  the  sole  remnant 
of  his  fortune  consisted  in  a  wretched  sum  of  twenty  thousand 
livres  ;  but  the  public  report,  or  suspicion,  bespeaks  him  in  much 

•  I.e.  the  treaty  of  November  2. 


316  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

better  circumstances.  Besides  the  reproach  of  acting  with  too 
much  tameness  and  delay,  he  is  accused  of  making  very  foul 
and  exorbitant  contracts  :  ^  and  it  is  certain  that  new  Sparta 
is  infected  with  this  vice  beyond  the  example  of  the  most 
corrupt  monarchy.  Kellerman  -  is  arrived  to  take  the  command  ; 
and  it  is  apprehended  that  on  the  first  of  December,  after  the 
departure  of  the  Swiss,  the  French  may  request  the  permission  of 
using  Geneva,  a  friendly  city,  for  their  winter  quarters.  In  that 
case,  the  democratical  revolution,  which  we  all  foresee,  will  be  very 
speedily  effected.^ 

I  would  ask  you,  whether  you  apprehend  there  was  any  treason 
in  the  Duke  of  Brunswick's  retreat,  and  whether  you  have  totally 
withdrawn  your  confidence  and  esteem  from  that  once-famed 
general  ?  Will  it  be  possible  for  England  to  preserve  her 
neutrality  with  any  honour  or  safety  ?  We  are  bound,  as  I 
understand,  by  treaty,  to  guarantee  the  dominions  of  the  King 
of  Sardinia  and  the  Austrian  provinces  of  the  Netherlands. 
These  countries  are  now  invaded  and  over-run  by  the  French. 
Can  we  refuse  to  fulfil  our  engagements,  without  exposing  our- 
selves to  all  Europe  as  a  perfidious  or  pusillanimous  nation  ?  Yet, 
on  the  other  hand,  can  we  assist  those  allies,  without  plunging 
headlong  into  an  abyss,  whose  bottom  no  man  can  discover  ?  But 
my  chief  anxiety  is  for  our  domestic  tranquillity  ;  for  I  must 
find  a  retreat  in  England,  should  I  be  driven  from  Lausanne. 
The  idea  of  firm  and  honourable  union  of  parties  pleases  me 
much  ;  but  you  must  frankly  unfold  what  are  the  great  difficulties 
that  may  impede  so  salutary  a  measure :  you  write  to  a  man 
discreet  in  speech,  and  now  careful  of  papers.  Yet  what  can  such 
a  coalition  avail  if   Fox   be  detestable  and   Pitt  democratical  ? 

*  The  report  of  the  Diplomatic  Committee  (November  21)  on  the  treaties 
which  Montesquieu  had  signed  with  Geneva,  speaks  of  him  as  a  man  who 
*'  had  put  his  name  to  many  fraudulent  and  usurious  proceedings,  and  who 
appeared  to  regard  the  Revolution  as  a  speculation  and  a  new  kind  of  stock- 
jobbing." 

*  Francois  Christophe  de  Kellerman  (1735-1820)  was  the  hero  of  the 
battle  of  Valmy.     In  1804  he  was  created  Due  de  Valmy  by  Napoleon. 

'  Gibbon's  surmise  proved  correct.  On  December  3,  and  again  on 
December  27,  the  Repr^sentants  rose  in  arms,  threatened  to  call  in  the  aid  of 
the  French  army  if  they  were  opposed,  and  replaced  the  Petit  Conseil  and 
the  Conseil  des  Deux-Cents  by  two  committees,  organized  on  a  popular  basis, 
who  exercised  all  the  powers  which  were  previously  in  tlie  hands  of  the 
aristocracy. 


1792.]  MADAME   DE   STAEL.  347 

Where  is  the  cliampion  of  the  constitution  ?  Alas,  Lord  Guild- 
ford !  I  am  much  i^leased  with  the  Manchester  ass.  The  asses 
or  wolves  who  sacrificed  him  have  cast  off  the  mask  too  soon  ; 
and  such  a  nonsensical  act  must  open  the  eyes  of  many  simple 
patriots,  who  might  have  been  led  astray  by  the  specious  name  of 
reform.  It  should  be  made  as  notorious  as  possible.  Next  winter 
may  be  the  crisis  of  our  fate,  and  if  you  begin  to  improve  the 
constitution,  you  may  be  driven  step  by  step  from  the  disfranchise- 
ment of  Old  Sarum  to  the  king  in  Newgate,  the  lords  voted 
useless,  the  bishops  abolished,  and  a  house  of  commons  without 
articles  {sans  culottes). 

Necker  has  ordered  you  a  copy  of  his  royal  defence,  which 
has  met  with,  and  deserved,  universal  success.  The  pathetic 
and  argumentative  parts  are,  in  my  opinion,  equally  good,  and 
his  mild  eloquence  may  persuade  without  irritating.  I  have 
applied  to  this  gentler  tone  some  verses  of  Ovid  (Metamorph. 
1.  iii.  302,  &c.^)  which  you  may  read.  Madame  de  Stael  has 
produced  a  second  son.  She  talks  wildly  enough  of  visiting 
England  this  winter.*  Her  friend  the  Vicomte  de  Narbonne  is 
somewhere  about  Dorking.  If  you  could  shew  him  any  civilities 
she  would  thank  us  both.     She  is  a  pleasant  little  woman. 

No  news  from  Basil  or  Ostend  of  my  Madeira.  Pray  contrive 
to  get  me  a  mortgage ;  there  is  nothing  like  land  or  landed 
security.  Poor  Mrs.  G.  in  such  a  state  !  I  can  only  wish  her  an 
easy  dismission.  I  wish  the  same  to  poor  Severy,  whose  "^'condition 
is  hopeless.  Should  he  drag  through  the  winter,  Madame  de  S. 
would  scarcely  survive  him.  She  kills  herself  with  grief  and 
fatigue.  What  a  difference  in  Lausanne  !  I  hope  triple  answers 
are  on  the  road.  I  must  write  soon  ;  the  times  will  not  allow  me 
to  read  or  think.     Ever  yours.* 

No.  G  (I  believe).  Send  me  a  list  of  these  letters,  with  their 
respective  dates. 

'  Quk  tameu  usque  potest,  vires  sibi  demere  tentat. 
Nee,  quo  centimanum  dejecerat  igne  TyphcBa, 
Nunc  armatur  eo :  nimiiim  feritatis  in  illo. 
Est  aliud  levins  fulmen  ;  cui  dextra  Cyclopum 
SsevitisB,  flamma3que  minus,  minus  addidit  irae : 
Tela  secunda  vocant  Superi. 


348  GIBBON'S  COKRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 


608. 

To  his  Stejpmother. 

Lausanne,  Nov.  25, 1792. 

My  deahest  Madam, 

My  friend  Lord  Sheffield  has  just  informed  of  your 
late  illness  and  happy  recovery,  and  though  I  will  not  oppress  you 
by  a  long  letter,  I  cannot  refrain  from  writing  six  lines  to  express 
my  concern  for  the  one  and  my  joy  for  the  other.  It  is  my 
intention  (if  any  road  be  open)  to  reach  England  early  next 
summer,  when  I  shall  hasten  to  Bath,  and  hope  to  find  you  per- 
fectly revived  in  health  and  spirits.  We  have  had  some  slight 
alarms  in  this  country,  but  they  are  now  past,  and  amidst  the 
general  hurricane  we  hope  to  sleep  without  any  troublesome  dreams. 
Adieu,  my  Dear  Madam ;  if  your  hand  be  too  feeble  to  write 
yourself,  could  you  not  employ  that  of  a  friend  to  send  me  a  short 

and  sincere  account  ? 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

609. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihhon, 

Downing  Street,  14  Dec.,  1792. 

Being  harrassed  in  an  extraordinary  degree,  I  with  ease  per- 
suaded myself  that  it,  should  be  better  to  delay  my  letter  till 
this  day,  that  I  might  say  what  passed  in  opening  the  Parliament 
yesterday,^  Your  extraordinary  effort  to  write  so  much  would 
have  immediately  forced  me  to  answer  if  I  had  not  known  that 
Maria  had  despatched  a  packet,  and  that  My  Lady  threatened 
another.  I  must  acknowledge  that  Maria  pressed  me  every  post 
to  take  up  the  political  part  of  the  correspondence.  But  you  will 
be  satisfied  with  my  occupation  lately. 

Government  had  information  (I  know  it  to  be  very  serious, 

'  On  December  1  an  Order  in  Council  was  passed,  calling  out  part  of  the 
militia.  Another  portion  was  called  out  on  the  western  and  soutliern  coasts 
by  a  second  Order  of  December  5.  Parliament  met  on  December  13  to  ratify 
the  step  taken  by  the  Government,  within  the  fourteen  days  required  by 
statute. 


1792.]  THE  CONSTITUTION   IS   THE   FRENZY.  349 

and  not  from  them).  The  sudden  withdrawing  of  the  Troops 
from  the  coast  to  tlie  City,  the  extraordinary  assembhng  of 
Parliament,  the  calling  out  of  a  part  of  the  Militia,  of  course 
caused  great  alarm,  but  the  effect  was  good.  The  middle  ranks 
in  town  proposed  Associations.^  I  believe  we  began  in  Sussex. 
I  instantly  took  to  it,  gave  a  right  direction,  limited  the  business 
to  support  of  Constitution  as  now  established,  and  of  exerting 
the  Civil  power  which  should  be  found  necessary  at  this  extra- 
ordinary crisis  instead  of  patchwork  and  partial  association  by 
Towns.  I  have  promoted  one  in  each  of  the  twelve  Divisions 
of  the  County.  My  Division  meets  first.  The  Plan  ran  like 
wild-fire.  The  Constitution  is  the  phrenzy  more  than  Liberty, 
property  and  no  excise,  or  coalition  ever  was.  All  the  parishes 
in  London  are  associating. 

I  had  written  the  first  page  when  the  Princess  d'Heniu, 
who  left  Boulogne  yesterday,  entered  my  room,  and  the  now 
immediate  departure  of  post  only  allows  me  to  say  that  Charles 
Fox  on  moving  the  amendment  of  the  Address-  uttered  the 

'  An  association  was  formed,  in  November,  1792,  at  the  St.  Alban's 
Tavern,  of  members  of  Parliament  aud  other  persons  of  influence,  including 
Lord  Sheffield.  A  declaration  was  issued,  stating  that,  in  the  opinion  of 
those  who  signed  it,  it  was  in  the  present  moment  incumbent  upon  us  "  to 
give  to  the  executive  government  a  vigorous  and  effectual  support,  in 
counteracting  the  numerous  efforts  of  sedition,  in  detecting  and  bringin"'  to 
legal  punishment  the  persons  concerned  therein,  and  in  suppressing  in  their 
beginnings  all  tumults  or  riots,  on  whatever  pretence  they  may  be  excited." 
Another  association  at  the  Crown  and  Anchor,  presided  over  by  Mr.  Eeeves 
a  barrister,  and  containing  in  the  list  of  signatures  the  name  of  J.  T.  Batt, 
Lord  Sheffield's  friend,  issued  a  similar  declaration.  Other  associations 
were  formed  with  the  same  object  by  the  merchants  and  bankers  of  London, 
by  the  merchants,  etc.,  at  Lloyd's,  by  the  general  body  of  Protestant 
Dissenters  in  London  and  Westminster,  by  many  of  the  Livery  Companies, 
and  by  the  Corporation  of  the  City  of  London.  The  declaration  to  be  signed 
in  the  county  of  Sussex  is  quoted  in  full  at  the  beginning  of  the  Gentleman's 
Magazine  for  July  to  December,  1792.  The  following  note  is  added: 
"Association,  on  the  best  principle,  is  taking  place  throughout  England 
find  nowhere  in  a  better  form  than  in  Sussex,  under  the  auspices  of  Lord 
Sheffield." 

*  Fox,  on  December  13,  declared  the  calling  out  of  the  militia  to  be  a 
"ministerial  manoeuvre,"  and  moved  as  an  amendment  to  tlie  address, 
"That  his  Majesty's  faithful  Commons,  assembled  in  a  manner  new  and 
alarming  to  the  country,  think  it  their  first  duty,  and  will  make  it  their  first 
business,  to  inform  themselves  of  the  causes  of  this  measure,  being  equally 
zealous  to  enforce  a  due  obedience  to  the  laws  on  the  one  hand,  and  a 
faithful  execution  of  them  on  the  other." 


350  GIBBON'S  COEEESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

most  mischievous  doctrines,  principles,  &c.,  that  could  at  this 
time  be  invented,  declaring  himself,  however,  a  friend  to  the 
Constitution,  yet  admitting  the  necessity  of  some  changes.  We 
(Country  Gentlemen)  opposed  him,  290  to  50.'  Lord  Lans- 
down's  men  included  in  the  latter.  Most  of  the  others  were 
only  with  him  because  they  thought  it  better  not  to  throw  him 
out  of  all  chance  of  control.  Just  as  I  came  into  this  house  I 
met  Lord  Bute,  who  told  me  the  Irish  Catholicks  were  in  arms. 
Whether  we  shall  have  war  with  France  is  far  from  settled. 
I  shall  write  by  next  post. 

610. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Glhbon. 

Sheffield  Place,  20tli  Dec,  '92. 

I  wrote  in  much  haste  to  you  last  Friday,  and  I  know  not  at 
this  time  what  I  wrote.  I  suppose  I  mentioned  to  you  that  Fox 
had,  contrary  to  the  opinion  of  all  the  considerable  and  respect- 
able men  of  the  Party,  uttered  everything  that  his  worst  enemy 
could  wish,  and  avowed  everything  which  he  seemed  to  keep  back 
last  Sessions.  It  is  impossible  to  imagine  anything  more  inju- 
dicious or  more  mischievous  at  this  time.  Every  man  in  the 
street  asked,  "Is  he  mad  ? "  On  the  report  of  the  address  he 
maintained  still  more  extravagant  language  than  the  day  before. 
The  next  day,  Saturday,  he  moved  an  Address  to  the  King  to 
acknowledge  and  send  an  Embassy  to  the  Eepublic,  or  to  that 
effect.^  I  had  been  considerably  elevated  by  his  speeches  of  the 
preceding  day,  and  just  before  I  came  down  to  the  House,  I  heard 
that  Brissot  had  announced  in  his  newspaper  of  the  10th,  as  a 
measure  of  Opposition,  the  acknowledgment  of  the  Eepublic  and 

*  Lord  Malmesbury  thus  analyzes  the  minority:  "21  were  reformers, 
4  Lord  Lansdowne's  members,  and  the  rest  people  personally  attached  to  Fox, 
and  who,  from  this  feeling,  and  against  their  sentiments,  voted  with  him. 
Such  were  Crewe,  Lord  Edward  Bentinck,  Lord  George  Cavendish,  Lord 
Milton,  Lionel  Damer,  and  others"  (^Diaries  and  Correspondence,  vol.  ii. 
p.  476). 

'^  On  Saturday,  December  15,  Fox  moved  that  an  address  be  presented  to 
his  Majesty,  "  that  a  minister  may  be  sent  to  Paris  to  treat  with  those  persons 
who  exercise  provisionally  the  functions  of  executive  government  in  France."' 
The  motion  was  negatived  without  a  division. 


1792.]  JACOBINISM   IN   ENGLAND.  351 

an  Embassy.  I  did  not  suppose  that  Fox  had  any  communication 
with  him,  but  it  seemed  that  somebody  who  was  in  his  councils 
had  connection  with  Brissot.  Thus  figged,  the  moment  Fox  sat 
down,  I  burst,  and  expressed  myself  pretty  vigorously,  and  I  was 
not  sorry  for  the  opportunity,  as  I  knew  the  country  gentlemen 
were  properly  disposed,  and  I  was  glad  to  shew  a  good  example. 
Some  followed  strongly  against  Fox's  conduct.  The  speeches  are 
wretchedly  given  in  the  common  newspapers,  but  there  is  a  good 
report  of  what  I  said  in  the  Diary  and  Morning  Chronicle,  and  if 
there  should  be  room,  Maria  shall  copy  it  at  the  end  of  this  letter, 
as  it  is  not  long. 

Your  last  letter  of  the  26th  Nov.  is  not  the  6th,  but  the  5tb 
Bulletin  of  affairs  in  yom*  neighbourhood.  "While  you  continue 
to  write  you  shall  have  frequent  accounts  from  hence. 

I  had  not  an  opportunity  of  learning  distinctly  whether  Pitt 
has  at  last  positively  declined  the  admission  of  Fox  into  Adminis- 
tration. I  have  heard  it  said  that  he  had,  and  that  he  had  not, 
both  seemingly  from  good  authority,  but  in  truth  I  forgot  to 
enquire  from  the  only  quarter  that  could  inform.  The  Duke  of 
Portland  is  greatly  distressed  by  Fox's  conduct — if  he  were  to  be 
desired,  he  might  become  more  desperate. — Lord  Loughborough 
is  more  vigorous  in  his  opinion  of  the  matter.  There  seems  at 
present  no  probability  of  his  accepting  the  Great  Seal.  It  would 
be  a  situation  of  uncertainty,  his  acceptance  would  be  reprobated, 
and  he  would  involve  himself  in  much  more  trouble  and  difficulty 
than  at  present ;  yet  I  do  not  see  how  Government  can  go  on 
without  a  considerable  addition  of  force.  It  seems  to  me,  however, 
agreed  among  the  better  part  of  us  in  Opposition  not  to  distress 
or  obstruct  Government  by  opposition  at  this  time.  The  business 
is  too  serious.  Jacobinism  had  lately  slid  rapidly  through  many 
parts  of  the  country.  Emissaries  of  all  sorts  and  in  great  numbers 
have  been  very  busy,  and  at  a  great  expence. 

I  believe  that  I  mentioned  in  a  late  letter  that  the  Chief  of 
the   Propaganda  was  here. — Rotombeau,^  the  most  execrable  of 

*  "  Some  of  the  very  -worst  of  the  French  murderers  on  the  10th  of  August 
and  beginning  of  September  have  been  here,  particularly  one  Eotundo,  who 
was  a  principal  performer  in  the  massacres  of  the  prisoners  on  the  2n(i  and 
3rd  of  September.  He  was  one  of  the  executioners  of  Madame  de  Lamballe^ 
of  which  I  understand  he  boasted  when  in  England,  for  I  hear  he  is  gone 
back  "  (Life  and  Letters  of  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  vol.  ii.  p.  91).  It  is  difHcult  to 
trace  the  foundation  for  the  statement.     One  Petit  Mamin  was  accused  of 


352  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1702. 

wretches,  is  here,  and  bragged  that  with  his  own  hand  he  had 
murdered  the  Lamballe  and  38  persons  in  one  day.  Many 
Frenchmen  landed  upon  different  parts  of  our  coast  with  arms. 
Some  imported  them  regularly  and  paid  duty  for  them.  Several 
men  landed  even  near  Ipswich  with  Fire-locks,  Side-arms,  and  a 
dagger.  The  officer  commanding  took  them  from  them,  and  the 
Mayor  ordered  them  to  be  stored.  The  numbers  in  London  were 
very  great — a  very  considerable  number  of  persons  there,  and 
especially  in  the  Borough,  were  in  concert  with  them.  However 
wild  it  may  appear,  the  Plan  was  to  surprize  the  Tower  and  to 
deliver  the  hundred  thousand  muskets  in  the  Armoury  to  the 
people,  who  they  supposed  would  follow  them.  The  number  who 
have  associated  in  the  several  clubs  is  said  to  consist  of  many 
thousands.  Government  had  notice  that  an  attack  would  be 
made  on  Sat.  the  1st  Deer.  All  the  night  of  Friday  Artillery  and 
Artillery-men  were  marching  to  the  Tower  from  Woolwich,  and 
before  day-break  it  was  well-guarded.  All  this  I  know  and  not 
from  friends  of  Government.  The  Tower  has  since  been  much 
strengthened  ;  the  gates  fortified,  the  Ditch  cleansed,  and  a  con- 
siderable body  of  men  is  now  there.  All  the  Cavalry  and  Regulars 
within  a  hundred  miles  of  London,  were  brought  to  its  close 
neighbourhood. 

The  country  was  of  course  alarmed,  the  shopkeepers  at  Lewes 
proposed  Association  in  favour  of  the  Constitution,  the  same 
disposition  seems  to  have  arisen  at  the  same  time  in  different  parts 
of  England.  Finding  it  likely  to  run,  I  have  been  very  active 
in  giving  it  a  direction.  It  appeared  to  me  that  nothing  could 
be  more  advantageous  than  arranging  the  minds  of  the  people 
under  a  good  Principle,  while  they  were  in  a  ferment,  and  when 
once  committed  by  their  signature,  it  was  likely  they  would 
be  strenuous  for  measures  which  I  endeavoured  to  make  their 
own,  as  much  as  possible.  Every  division  of  this  county  is 
forming  Associations  to  support  the  Civil  Power,  and  declaring  in 

having  boasted  that  he  liad  killed  the  princess ;  but  he  denied  having  made 
the  boast,  and  proved,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  jury,  that  he  was  not  in  Paris 
at  the  time  (Mortimer-Ternaux,  Eistoire  de  la  Terreur,  1792-94,  vol.  iii. 
pp.  G32,  633).  In  Lescure's  Vie  de  la  Princegse  de  Lamballe  (pp.  426-428) 
the  names  of  the  murderers  are  given  as  Charlat  and  Grison.  M.  Feuillet 
de  Conches  (Louis  XVI.,  Marie  Antoinette,  et  Madame  Elisaheth,  vol.  vi. 
p.  316)  says  that  Gonchon  was  the  name  of  the  man  who  first  struck  down 
the  princess. 


1792.]  FOX'S  MISCHIEVOUS  SPEECHES.  353 

favour  of  a  Government  by  King,  Lords  and  Commons.  The 
spirit  is  going  through  the  whole  kingdom.  The  Jacobins  seem, 
to  be  totally  crushed  and  dismayed.  Many  French  fled  to  the 
Ports  to  secure  a  passage.  Whether  C.  Fox's  speeches  will  revive- 
them,  I  do  not  yet  know,  but  they  certainly  will  encourage  many 
of  the  miscreants  within  the  country.  I  do  not  know  whether 
I  mentioned  to  you  the  great  facility  with  which  several  people, 
even  in  this  county,  talk  of  the  foolish  expence  of  maintaining 
a  royal  family.  Association,  giving  an  opportunity  to  such  an 
immense  proportion  of  the  people  to  shew  their  attachment  to  the 
Constitution,  has  an  excellent  effect,  and  I  have  no  doubt  that 
the  French  Devils  on  the  excellent  appearance  of  things  will  give 
up  their  machinations.  On  the  late  explosion  Rotombeau  made- 
an  attempt  to  fly — he  was  told  he  would  be  safer  in  London.  Ho 
is  well  spied — he  sees  four  hundred  persons  in  a  day.  I  believe  he 
is  now  gone. 

I  came  here  on  Sunday  to  attend  a  great  meeting  of  Associa- 
tions (which  I  had  promoted)  on  Monday.  I  intended  to  return,, 
but  on  Tuesday  I  wrote  to  the  D.  of  Portland  &  to  Lord 
Loughborough,  and  told  them  I  was  so  disgusted  with  Fox's 
conduct  that  I  thought  they  would  agree  with  me,  that  I  had 
better  remain  at  Sheffield  Place  till  Parliament  meets  for  business 
after  Christmas.  That  I  was  sure  a  very  small  number  of  members 
indeed  would  follow  him  in  his  present  career.  That,  as  a  well- 
wisher  to  the  tranquility  and  safety  of  the  country,  I  need  not  be 
apprehensive  of  any  mischief,  except  what  may  arise  from  the 
language  he  holds,  which  cannot  be  prevented.  That  I  do  not 
like  to  seem  separate  from  men  with  whom  I  have  zealously  acted 
ten  out  of  the  thirteen  years  of  my  political  life. 

{Continued  by  the  Hon.  Maria  Holroyd.) 

My  Lord's  Speech,  taken  from  the  Diary — he  rose  immediately- 
after  Mr.  Fox's  motion  for  an  Embassy  to  France.  "  It  is 
impossible  to  be  silent.  Are  we  then  in  that  deplorable  situation  ? 
Are  we  the  vilest  and  most  contemptible  of  nations  ?  Are  we  to 
be  the  first  to  acknowledge,  and  cringe  to  these  cut-throats  and 
robbers,  who  have  not  the  recommendation  of  being  able  ta 
controul  their  own  Banditti  ?  Are  we  to  league  with  them,  to  act 
in  concert  with  them  ?     How  soon  they  may  be  invited  here,  he 

VOL.  II.  2  A 


354  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1792. 

should  not  then  attempt  to  guess — or  to  say  how  soon  our  gaols 
may  be  filled  with  the  most  respectable  persons  of  the  Xation,  for 
the  purpose  of  mui'dering  them  in  cold  blood  without  a  trial — or 
how  soon  the  most  amiable  of  our  women  and  of  the  highest 
ranks  may  He  on  straw  crowded  in  the  most  loathsome  gaols,  as  in 
France,  with  the  lowest  dregs  of  the  people,  faultless  however, 
except  that  their  fathers,  husbands,  or  sons  may  have  ventured  to 
maintain  the  constitution ;  he  should  leave  to  others  more  able 
than  he  was  to  detail  the  mischiefs  of  the  monstrous  proposition 
that  had  been  made.  He  was  too  much  agitated  to  attempt  it. 
He  was  almost  ashamed  of  the  enthusiasm  he  had  hitherto  felt  in 
favour  of  the  Right  Honourable  Mover.  It  is  true  he  had  made 
much  enquiry,  but  he  hoped  other  country  gentlemen  would 
communicate  what  they  knew  of  the  state  of  the  country.  In 
respect  to  war,  he  beUeved  every  man  wished  to  avert  it.  That 
the  surest  means  of  avoiding  it  would  be  by  vigorous  preparation 
for  it,  and  if  it  could  not  be  avoided,  that  it  would  be  better 
policy  to  meet  it,  than  wait  for  it.  That  the  Disturbers  of  the 
World  when  they  had  over-run  other  nations,  envying  and  dread- 
ing our  prosperity,  would  not  fail  with  double  force  to  visit  us. 
His  Lordship  concluded  with  some  observations  on  the  late 
measures,  and  told  the  Ministers,  that  although  he  commended 
their  promptness  and  vigour,  yet  he  could  not  approve  their 
unjustifiable  interpretation  of  the  word — Insurrection.  They 
would  have  done  much  better  if  they  had  acknowledged  that,  in 
-consequence  of  some  uncommon  danger  which  impended,  they  had 
for  the  public  good  laid  themselves  under  the  necessity  of 
applying  to  the  Legislature  for  indemnity,  but  that  he  had  not 
objected  to  the  Address  or  supported  the  Amendment,  because  he 
would  not  seem  to  countenance  the  many  mischievous  principles 
and  suggestions  which  had  been  heard  in  that  House  the  last  two 
days  from  the  Mover  of  the  -Amendment." 


611. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Dec.  14th,  1792. 
*Our  little  storm  has  now  completely  subsided,  and  we  are 
again  spectators,  though  anxious  spectators,  of  the  general  tempest 


1793.]  EEVOLUTIOX  AT  GENEVA.  355 

that  invades  or  threatens  almost  every  country  of  Europe.  Our 
troops  are  every  day  disbanding  and  returning  home,  and  the 
greatest  part  of  the  French  have  evacuated  the  neighbourhood 
of  Geneva.  Monsieur  Barthelemy,^  whom  you  have  seen  secretary 
in  London,  is  most  courteously  entertained,  as  ambassador,  by  the 
Helvetic  body.  He  is  now  at  Berne,  where  a  Diet  will  speedily 
be  convened  ;  the  language  on  both  sides  is  now  pacific,  and  even 
friendly,  and  some  hopes  are  given  of  a  provision  for  the  officers 
of  the  Swiss  guards  who  have  survived  the  Massacres  of  Paris. 

January  Ist,  1793. 

"With  the  return  of  peace  I  have  relapsed  into  my  former 
indolence  ;  but  now  awakening,  after  a  fortnight's  slumber,  I  have 
little  or  nothing  to  add,  with  regard  to  the  internal  state  of  tliis 
country,  only  the  revolution  of  Geneva  has  already  taken  place, 
as  I  announced,  but  sooner  than  I  expected.     The  Swiss  troops 
had  no  sooner  evacuated  the  place,  than  the  Egalueurs^os,  they  are 
called,  assembled  in  arms  ;  and  as  no  resistance  was  made,  no 
blood  was  shed  on  the  occasion.     They  seized  the  gates,  disarmed 
the  garrison,  imprisoned  the  magistrates,  imparted  the  rights  of 
citizens  to  all  the  rabble  of  the  town  and  country,  and  proclaimed 
a  national  convention,  which  has  not  yet  met.    They  are  all  for 
a  pure  and  absolute  Democracy ;    but  wish  to  remain  a  small 
independent  state,  whilst  others  aspire  to  become  a  part  of  the 
republic  of  France  ;  and  as  the  latter,  though  less  numerous,  are 
more  violent  and  absurd  than  their  adversaries,  it  is  highly 
probable  that  they  will  succeed.     The  Citizens  of  the  best  famihes 
and  fortunes  have  retired  from  Geneva  into  the  Pays  de  Yaud, 
but  the  French  methods  of  recalling  or  proscribing  emigrants  will 
soon  be  adopted.    You  must  have  observed,  that  Savoy  has  now 
become  le  Department  du  Mont  Blanc.     I  cannot  satisfy  myself 
whether  the  mass  of  the  people  is  pleased  or  displeased  with  the 
change ;  but  my  noble  scenery  is  clouded  by  the  democratical 
aspect  of    twelve  leagues    of  the   opposite  coast,  which   every 
morning  obtrude  themselves  on  my  view.     I  here  conclude  the 

*  Fran9oi8,  Marquis  de  Barthelemy  (1750-1830),  concluded  three  treaties 
at  Basle  in  1795 — with  Prussia,  the  United  Provinces,  and  Spain.  He  was 
a  member  of  the  Directory ;  but,  suspected  for  his  moderation,  was  sent,  first 
to  Cayenne,  then  to  Sinnamari.  Thence  he  escaped  to  England.  He  assisted 
in  drawing  up  the  charter  at  the  restoration  of  Louis  XVin. 


356  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

first  part  of  the  history  of  our  Alpine  troubles,  and  now  consider 
myself  as  disengaged  from  all  promises  of  periodical  writing. 
Upon  the  whole,  I  kept  it  beyond  onr  expectation  ;  nor  do  I  think 
that  you  have  been  sufficiently  astonished  by  the  wonderful  effort 
of  the  triple  dispatch. 

You  must  now  succeed  to  my  task,  and  I  shall  expect,  during 
the  winter,  a  regular  political  journal  of  the  events  of  your  greater 
world.  You  are  on  the  theatre,  and  may  often  be  behind  the 
scenes.  You  can  always  see,  and  may  sometimes  foresee.  My  own 
choice  has  indeed  transported  me  into  a  foreign  land ;  but  I  am 
truly  attached,  from  interest  and  inclination,  to  my  native  country ; 
and  even  as  a  Citizen  of  the  World,  I  wish  the  stability  and 
happiness  of  England,  the  sole  great  refuge  of  mankind  against 
the  opposite  mischiefs  of  despotism  and  Democracy.  I  was 
indeed  alarmed,  and  the  more  so,  as  I  saw  that  you  were  not 
without  apprehension  ;  but  I  now  glory  in  the  triimiph  of  reason 
and  genuine  patriotism,  which  seems  to  pervade  the  country  ;  nor 
do  I  dislike  some  mixture  of  popular  enthusiasm,  which  may  be 
requisite  to  encounter  our  mad  or  wicked  enemies  with  equal  arms. 

The  behaviour  of*  Fox  *rather  afflicts  than  surprises  me.  You 
may  remember  what  I  told  you  last  year  at  Latisanne,  when  you 
attempted  his  defence,  that  his  inmost  soul  was  deeply  tinged  with 
Democracy.  Such  wild  opinions  cannot  easily  be  reconciled  with 
his  excellent  understanding,  but  '  'tis  true  'tis  pity,  and  pity  'tis, 
'tis  true.'  He  will  surely  ruin  himself  in  the  opinion  of  the  wise 
and  good  men  of  his  party.  You  have  now  crushed  the  daring 
subverters  of  the  Constitution,  but  I  now  fear  the  moderate 
well-meaners — reformers.  Do  not,  I  beseech  you,  tamper  with 
Parliamentary  representation.  The  present  House  of  Commons 
forms  in  practice  a  body  of  Gentlemen  who  must  always  sympa- 
thize with  the  interest  and  opinions  of  the  people,  and  the  slightest 
innovation  launches  you  without  rudder  or  compass  on  a  dark  and 
dangerous  ocean  of  Theoretical  experiment.  On  this  subject  I 
am  indeed  serious. 

Upon  the  whole,  I  like  the  beginning  of  '93  better  than  the 
end  of  '92.  The  illusion  seems  to  break  away  throughout  Europe. 
I  think  England  and  Switzerland  are  safe.  Brabant  adheres  to 
the  old  constitution.  The  Germans  are  disgusted  with  the  rapine 
and  insolence  of  their  deliverers.  The  Pope  is  resolved  to  head 
his  armies,  and  the  Lazzaroni  of    Naples  have  presented  St. 


1793.]  OF  HIilSELF   AND  HIS  OWN  PLANS.  357 

Januarlus  with  a  gold  fuzee,  to  fire  on  the  Brigands  Frangais. 

So  much  for  politics,  which  till  now  never  had  such  possession  of 

my  mind.     Next  post   I  will  write  about  myself  and  my  own 

designs,     Alas,  your  poor  eyes  !  make  the  Maria  write  ;  I  will 

speedily  answer  her.     My  Lady  is  still  dumb.     The  Gennan  posts 

are  now  slow  and  irregular.     You  had  better  write  by  the  way  of 

France,  under  cover,  directed  to  Le  Citoyen  Rehaurs,  a  Fontarlier, 

France.    Adieu.* 

Ever  yours, 

G. 

612. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  Jan.  6tli,  1793. 

*There  was  formeriy  a  time  when  our  correspondence  was  a 
painful  discussion  of  my  private  affairs  ;  a  vexatious  repetition 
of  losses,  of  disappointments,  of  sales,  &c.  These  affairs  are  now 
decently  arranged :  but  public  cares  have  now  succeeded  to  private 
anxiety,  and  our  whole  attention  is  lately  turned  from  Lenborough 
and  Beriton,  to  the  pohtical  state  of  France  and  of  Europe.  From 
these  pohtics,  however,  one  letter  shall  be  free,  while  I  talk  of 
myself  and  of  my  own  plans  ;  a  subject  most  interesting  to  a 
friend,  and  only  to  a  friend. 

I  know  not  whether  I  am  sorry  or  glad  that  my  expedition 
has  been  postponed  to  the  present  year.     It  is  true,  that  I  now 
wish  myself  in  England,  and  almost  repent  that  I  did  not  grasp 
the  opportunity  when  the  obstacles  were  comparatively  smaller 
than  they  are  now  likely  to  prove.     Yet  had  I  reached  you  last 
summer  before  the  month  of  August,  a  considerable  portion  of 
my  time  would  be  now  elapsed,  and  I  should  already  begin  to 
think  of  my  depailure.     If  the  Gout  should  spare  me  this  winter, 
(and  as  yet  I  have  not  felt  any  symptom,)  and  if  the  spring  should 
make  a  soft  and  early  appearance,  it  is  my  intention  to  be  with 
yon  in  Downing-street  before  the  end  of  April,  and  thus  to  enjoy 
six  weeks  or  two  months  of  the  most  agreeable  season  of  London 
and  the  neighbourhood,  after  the  hurry  of  parliament  is  subsided, 
and  before  the   great  rural  dispersion.     As  the  banks  of  the 
Rhine  and  the  Belgic  provinces  are  completely  overspread  with 
anarchy  and  war,  I  have  made  up  my  mind  to  pass  through  the 


358  GIBBON'S  COKRESPONDENCE.  [1793^ 

territories  of  the  French  Eepublic.  From  the  best  and  most 
recent  information,  I  am  satisfied  that  there  is  little  or  no  real 
danger  in  the  journey ;  and  I  must  arm  myself  with  patience  to 
support  the  vexatious  insolence  of  democratical  tyranny.  I  have 
even  a  sort  of  curiosity  to  spend  some  days  at  Paris,  to  assist  at 
the  debates  of  the  Pandsemonium,  to  seek  an  introduction  to  the 
principal  Devils,  and  to  contemplate  a  new  form  of  public  and 
private  life,  which  never  existed  before,  and  which  I  devoutly 
hope  will  not  long  continue  to  exist.  Should  the  obstacles  of 
health  or  Aveather  confine  me  at  Lausanne  till  the  month  of  May, 
I  shall  scarcely  be  able  to  resist  the  temptation  of  passing  some 
part  at  least  of  the  summer  in  my  own  little  paradise. 

But  all  these  schemes  must  ultimately  depend  on  the  great 
question  of  peace  and  War,  which  will  indeed  be  speedily  deter- 
mined.  Should  France  become  impervious  to  an  English  traveller, 
what  must  I  do  ?     I  shall  not  easily  resolve  to  explore  my  way 
through  the  unknown  language  and  abominable  roads  of  the 
interior  parts  of  Germany,  to  embark  in  Holland,  or  perhaps  at 
Hamburgh,  and  to  be  finally  intercepted  by  a  French  privateer. 
My  stay  in  England  appears  not  less  doubtful  than  the  means  of 
transporting  myself.     Should  I  arrive  in  the  spring,  it  is  possible, 
and  barely  possible,  that  I  should  return  here  in  the  autumn ;  it  is 
much  more  probable  that  I  shall  pass  the  winter,  and  there  may 
be  even  a  chance  of  my  giving  my  own  country  a  longer  tryal. 
In  my  letter  to  My  Lady  I  fairly  exposed  the  decline  of  Lausanne ; 
but  such  an  establishment  as  mine  must  not  be  lightly  abandoned ; 
nor  can  I  discover  what  adequate  mode  of  life  my  private  circum- 
stances, easy  as  they  now  are,  could  afford  me   in   England. 
London  and  Bath  have  doubtless  their  respective  merits,  and  I 
could  wish  to  reside  within  a  day's  journey  of  Sheffield-place. 
But  a  state  of  perfect  happiness  is  not  to  be  found  here  below  ; 
and  in  the  possession  of  my  library,  house,  and  garden,  with  the 
relicks  of    our   society,   and  a  frequent    intercourse  with  the 
Neckers,  I  may  still  be  tolerably  content.     Among  the  disastrous 
changes  of  Lausanne,  I  must  principally  reckon  the  approaching 
dissolution  of  poor  Severy  and  his  family.     He  is  still  alive,  but 
in  such  hopeless  and  painful  decay,  that  we  no  longer  conceal  our 
wishes  for  his  speedy  release.     I  never  loved  nor  esteemed  him 
so  much  as  in  this  last  mortal  disease,  which  he  supports  with  a 
degree  of  courage,  patience,  and  even  chearfulness,  beyond  all 


1793.]  A  LITERARY  SECRET.  359 

belief.  His  wife,  whose  whole  time  and  soul  are  devoted  to  him, 
is  almost  sinking  under  her  long  anxiety.  The  children  are  most 
amiably  assiduous  to  both  their  parents,  and  at  all  events,  his 
filial  duties  and  worldly  cares  must  detain  the  son  some  time  at 
home. 

And  now  approach,  and  let  me  drop  into  your  most  private 
ear,  a  literary  secret.  Of  the  Memoirs  little  has  been  done,  and 
with  that  little  I  am  not  satisfied.  They  must  be  postponed  till 
a  mature  season  ;  and  I  much  doubt  whether  the  book  and  the 
author  can  ever  see  the  light  at  the  same  time.  But  I  have  long 
revolved  in  my  mind  another  scheme  of  Biographical  writing  : 
the  lives,  or  rather  the  characters,  of  the  most  eminent  persons  in 
arts  and  arms,  in  Church  and  State,  who  have  flourished  in  Britain 
from  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  to  the  present  age.  This  work, 
extensive  as  it  may  be,  would  be  an  amusement  rather  than  a  toil: 
the  materials  are  accessible  in  our  own  language,  and  for  the 
most  part  ready  to  my  hands  :  but  the  subject,  which  would 
afford  a  rich  display  of  human  nature  and  domestic  history,  would 
powerfully  address  itself  to  the  feelings  of  every  Englishman. 
The  taste  or  fashion  of  the  times  seems  to  delight  in  picturesque- 
decorations  ;  and  this  series  of  British  portraits  might  aptly  be 
accompanied  by  the  respective  heads,  taken  from  originals,  and 
engraved  by  the  best  masters.  Alderman  Boydell,^  and  his  son- 
in-law,  Mr.  George  Mcol,  bookseller  in  Pallmall,  are  the  great 
undertakers  in  this  line ;  *  but  your  negociation  with  them  will 
require  the  dexterity  of  an  Auckland  or  a  Malmsbury,  as  it  is 
most  essential  that  I  be  solicited,  and  do  not  solicit.  In  your 
walk  through  Pall  Mall,  you  may  call  on  the  bookseller,  who 
appeared  to  me  an  intelligent  man,  and  after  some  general  ques- 
tions about  his  Edition  of  Shakespeare,  «fec.,  you  may  open  the 
British  portraits  as  an  idea  of  your  own  to  which  I  am  perfectly 
a  stranger.  If  he  kindles  at  the  thought,  and  eagerly  claims  my 
alliance,  you  will  begin  to  hesitate.  "  I  am  afraid,  Mr.  Nichols, 
that  we  shall  hardly  persuade  my  friend  to  engage  in  so  great  a 
work.  Gibbon  is  old,  and  rich,  and  lazy.  However,  you  may 
make  the  tryal,  and  if  you  have  a  mind  to  write  to  Lausanne 
(as  I  do  not  know  when  he  will  be  in  England),  I  will  send  the 
application." 

On  the  receipt  of  his  proposal,  the  business  will  come  properly 

'  Boydell  was  Lord  Mayor  in  1790-91. 


S60  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

before  me,  and  it  will  then  be  in  my  power  to  deliberate,  to 
demm-,  to  state  observations,  and  to  prescribe  terms.  Should 
Nichols  or  Boydell  be  cool,  you  will  be  still  colder ;  I  shall  hear 
from  you  the  tone  and  motives  of  their  refusal,  and  on  my  arrival 
in  England  I  shall  be  free  to  consider,  whether  it  may  suit  me 
to  proceed  in  a  mere  literary  work  without  any  other  decorations 
than  those  which  it  may  derive  from  the  pen  of  the  author.  *It 
is  a  serious  truth,  that  I  am  no  longer  ambitious  of  fame  or 
money  ;  that  my  habits  of  industry  are  much  impaired,  and  that 
I  have  reduced  my  studies  to  be  the  loose  amusement  of  my  morn- 
ing hours,  the  repetition  of  which  will  insensibly  lead  me  to  the 
last  term  of  existence.  And  for  this  very  reason  I  shall  not  be 
sorry  to  bind  myself  by  a  liberal  engagement,  from  which  I  may 
not  with  honour  recede. 

Before  I  conclude,  we  must  say  a  word  or  two  of  Parliamentary 
and  pecuniary  concerns.  1.  We  all  admire  the  generous  spirit 
with  which  you  damned  the  Assassins,  but  I  hope  that  your 
objuration  of  all  future  connection  with  Fox  was  not  quite  so 
peremptory  as  it  is  stated  in  the  French  papers.  Let  him  do 
what  he  will,  I  must  love  the  dog.  The  opinion  of  Parliament, 
in  favour  of  Louis  XVI.  was  declared  in  a  manner  worthy  of  the 
representatives  of  a  great  and  wise  nation.^  It  will  certainly  have 
a  powerful  effect ;  and  if  the  poor  King  be  not  already  murdered, 
I  am  satisfied  that  his  life  is  in  safety :  but  is  such  a  life  worth 
bis  care  ?  Our  debates  will  now  become  every  day  more  interest- 
ing ;  and  as  I  only  expect  from  you  opinions  and  anecdotes,  I 
most  earnestly  conjure  you  to  send  me  "Woodf all's  Register,  with 

'  On  December  21,  1792,  a  copy  was  read  to  the  House  of  Commons  of  the 
instructions  sent  to  Earl  Gower,  the  British  Ambassador  at  Paris,  signifying 
his  recall  in  August  on  the  ground  that,  as  the  executive  power  was  with- 
drawn from  Louis  XVI.,  the  credentials  under  which  the  ambassador  acted 
were  no  longer  available.  In  the  instructions,  the  king,  while  "adhering  to 
the  principles  of  neutrality  in  respect  to  the  settlement  of  the  internal  govern- 
ment of  France,"  considered  it  "no  deviation  from  those  principles  to  manifest, 
by  all  the  means  in  Lis  power,  his  solicitude  for  the  personal  situation  of 
their  most  Christian  majesties,  and  their  royal  family;  and  he  earnestly  and 
anxiously  hopes  that  they  will,  at  least,  be  secure  from  any  acts  of  violence, 
which  cannot  fail  to  produce  one  universal  sentiment  of  indignation  through 
«very  country  of  Europe."  It  was  unanimously  resolved  that  the  paper 
should  remain  on  Ihe  table  of  the  House.  The  king  was  sentenced  to  death 
by  the  Convention,  January  17,  1793.  His  appeal  to  the  nation  was  re- 
jected, January  19-20,  and  the  final  sentence  announced  to  him  on  Sunday, 
January  20.     He  was  executed  the  following  day. 


1793]  LORD  SHEFFIELD  ON   SWISS  POLITICS.  3C1 

the  margins  cut  close,  as  often  (and  that  must  be  very  often)  as 
the  occasion  deserves  it.*  My  direction,  more  distinctly  than  in 
my  last  letter,  must  be  under  cover  to  Le  Citoyen  le  Rebours, 
Maitre  de  Poste  a  Pontarlier,  dans  le  departement  du  Doubs. 
*I  now  spare  no  expense  for  news.* 

2.  Will  it  never  be  possible  to  get  me  a  good  Mortgage  for 
my  £3000  ?  I  believe  it  may  be  advisable  to  change  my  stock 
from  the  Short  Annuities,  the  value  of  which  is  wearing  every 
day,  to  the  3  per  Cents.,  which  are  now  so  low.  Notwithstanding 
Sainsbury's  death,  I  hope  the  Buriton  interest  is  regularly  paid ; 
when  there  is  a  stoppage,  the  Goslings  might  give  you  or  me 
notice  that  I  may  not  be  exposed  to  the  danger  of  overdrawing. 
I  want  to  have  Caplin's  direction,  as  I  may  have  some  orders 
that  should  be  executed  before  my  arrival.  "We  have  written 
twice  to  Ostend  without  obtaining  an  answer.  Have  you  had 
no  better  success  ?     I  tremble  for  my  Madeira. 

*I  want  some  account  of  Mrs.  G.'s  health.  Will  my  lady  never 
write  ?  How  can  people  be  so  indolent !  I  suppose  this  will  find 
you  at  Sheffield-place  during  the  recess,  and  that  the  heavy  baggage 
will  not  move  until  after  the  birthday.  Shall  I  be  with  you  by 
the  first  of  May  ?  The  Gods  only  know.  I  almost  wish  that  I 
had  accompanied  Madame  de  Stael.-' 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 


613. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihhon. 

Sheffield  Place,  Jan,  23rd,  1793. 

Your  silence,  which  seemed  long  after  your  extraordinary 
epistolary  efforts,  threw  the  family  into  a  state  of  revolt ;  we 
abjured  writing  to  you  until  we  had  further  information  of 
your  state,  &c.  Your  letters  of  the  1st  &  6th  (the  latter  rec'*. 
this  day)  promoted  an  immediate  search  for  this  large  sheet 
of  paper. 

In  respect  to  the  French  Eevolution  at  Geneva,  I  consider 
it  in  a  very  serious  light.  I  am  perfectly  satisfied  that  if  a  War 
with  England  does  not  take  place,  that  the  execrable  french 
demons  will  produce  the  same  Revolution  in  the  Pays  de  Vaud. 


362  GIBBON'S  COEEESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

From  what  has  passed  lately,  I  have  entirely  changed  my  opinion 
of  the  Swiss  character.  I  no  longer  expect  that  noble  resistance 
which  was  supposed  characteristic  of  them.  This  mortifies  me, 
hut  I  see  a  greater  probability  of  your  re-establishraent  in  England 
than  I  had  flattered  myself  with  before.  I  acknowledge  that  no 
creature  could  leave  your  spot  without  deep  regret.  It  is  eminently 
beautiful  and  pleasant.  Its  convenience  is  of  your  own  creation, 
your  books  are  there — but  tho'  the  translation  of  them  to  this 
island  might  cost  you  £400,  it  would  not  be  impossible  expence. 

But  war  between  this  country  and  France  is  more  certain 
than  you  seem  to  think  it.  You  could  not  have  read  Lord 
Grenville's  notice  of  Chauvelin's  Paper.^  I  like  it  much,  it 
seemed  to  show  that  War  is  inevitable — indeed  letters  received 
this  day  mention  it  as  certain,  and  Chauvelin's  departure  is 
immediately  expected.  The  Devils  seem  damnably  afraid  of  us, 
and  I  hope  with  reason.  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  Spain 
and  Holland  will  heartily  join  and  compleat  the  Circle  of  Fire, 
except  on  the  frontier  of  your  poor  Swiss.  Surely  it  will  be  more 
politick  and  more  economick  for  us  to  engage,  when  backed 
by  all  Europe,  than  to  fight  them  single-handed  hereafter. 
Our  merchants  however  affect  to  be  panic-struck  on  Acct.  of 
our  Turkey  fleet,  which  they  say  is  worth  a  million  sterling.  I 
should  not  forget  a  strange  dilemma  in  which  we  find  ourselves 
through  a  most  extraordinary  neglect  of  that  essential  naval 
store — cordage.  All  the  Rope-yards  in  England  will  not  in  a 
considerable  time  be  able  to  supply  the  quantity  that  is  wanted. 
I  have  the  pleasure  however  of  observing  that  the  War  is  not 
likely  to  be  unpopular.  Charles  F.  and  they  who  bellowed  most 
against  it  certainly  most  wish  it,  because  it  is  the  only  thing 
that  can  eventually  overturn  the  Administration.   But  you  remark 

*  Chauvelin  had  been  accredited  by  Louis  XVI.  in  May,  1792.  But  he 
now  (December  27)  addressed  a  note  to  Lord  Grenville,  as  agent  of  the 
Executive  Council  of  the  French  Eepublic,  asking  whether  Great  Britain 
was  to  be  considered  as  a  belligerent  or  as  a  neutral  power.  Lord  Grenville 
declined  (December  31)  to  acknowledge  his  official  position,  but  explained 
the  policy  of  the  British  Government.  Oa  January  18,  1793,  Lord  Grenville 
replied  to  M.  Chauvelin  that  the  British  Government  would  continue  its  pre- 
parations to  protect  the  country  and  its  allies,  and  to  oppose  a  barrier  to  French 
views  of  aggrandizement  and  the  propagation  of  destructive  principles.  On 
January  24,  M.  Chauvelin  was  ordered  to  leave  the  kingdom  within  eight 
days.  He  left  on  January  25.  The  Convention  declared  war  against 
England  and  Holland,  February  8,  1793,  and  against  Spain,  March  7. 


1793.]  FOX  AND  THE   DUKE  OF  PORTLAND.  3G3 

how  few  join  in  the  cry  against  War.  None  of  the  innumerable 
declarations  of  Associations  give  the  smallest  hint  of  dis- 
jipprobation. 

I  believe  I  mentioned  that  I  thought,  if  C.  Fox  should  manage 
prudently,  that  the  Party  would  not  suffer  essentially.  But  he 
seems  totally  to  have  discarded  all  attention  to  that  respectable 
and  most  necessary  though  vulgar  condescension.  In  the  Debate,^ 
when  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot  stated  that  the  Duke  of  Portland  entirely 
differed  from  C.  Fox,  the  latter  distinctly  said,  that  he  had  no 
reason  to  think  so,  but  if  that  was  the  case,  there  was  nothing 
left  for  him  to  do,  but  either  to  carry  on  the  most  fruitless 
opposition  or  to  quit  Parliament.  It  is  said  he  went  next 
morning  to  the  Duke  and  repeated  his  threat  to  quit  Parliament. 
The  Duke  was  induced  to  send  the  Marquis  of  Titchfield  to  the 
House  of  Commons  to  contradict  in  a  degree,  or  at  least  give  a 
different  colour  to  what  Sir  Gilbert  had  said,  although  the  latter 
had  taken  down  in  writing  the  Duke's  sentiments  which  he  had 
delivered  to  the  House.  It  is  a  most  serious  business  to  cast  off 
or  deny  the  Leader  of  the  Party  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and 
such  a  man  as  Fox,  with  whom  he  has  always  acted.  But  it 
seems  probable  from  the  spirit  of  the  times  that  the  Duke  will 
ruin  hunself  with  the  Publick  by  adhering  to  him.  It  is  probable 
that  he  will  still  remain  enthralled  with  a  connection  which  at 
this  moment  is  neither  consistent  with  his  opinions,  his  interest, 
nor  his  estimation  with  those  who  have  hitherto  highly  respected 
him  ;  should  that  happen,  it  is  impossible  to  unite  two  confidences 
so  entirely  opposite  to  each  other,  and  no  party  can  hold  men 
together  whose  views  for  the  Publick  Interest  are  so  totally 
different.    The  state  of  the  times  will  accelerate  decision.    The 

^  Lord  Sheffield  alludes  to  the  debate  on  the  second  reading  of  the  Alien 
Bill  (December  28,  1792).  Fox  opposed  the  Bill ;  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot  spoke 
for  it,  and  stated  that  the  Duke  of  Portland  was  in  its  favour,  and  that  the 
majority  of  the  Opposition,  of  -which  the  duke  was  the  leader,  intended  to 
support  the  Government.  After  the  debate,  Elliot,  Wyndham,  and  Fox  met 
at  the  Duke  of  Portland's,  when  the  duke  stated  that  Sir  Gilbert  had  correctly 
expressed  his  views.  Fox,  however,  recovered  his  ascendency  over  the  Duke 
of  Portland,  who  authorized  the  Marquis  of  Titchfield  (December  31),  his 
eldest  son,  M.P.  for  Buckinghamshire,  to  confine  the  support  of  the  Opposition 
to  this  particular  measure.  The  marquis  ended  his  speech  with  an  attack 
upon  tlie  individual  ministers,  a  passage  added,  it  is  said,  by  Fox,  which 
neutralized  the  efl"ect  of  his  support  {Diaries  and  Correspondence  of  Lord 
Malmeslury,  vol.  ii.  pp.  494,  495). 


364  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

ambiguous  state  in  which  things  were  left  at  the  time  of  the 
Recess,  must  in  some  way  be  cleared  up  before  our  meeting, 
which  is  to  take  place  a  week  hence.^ 

Every  appearance  indicates  "War — a  War  for  the  very  existence 
of  the  Constitution — half  measures  cannot  be  pursued  with  safety 
or  honour.  Charles  seemed  disposed  to  support  the  enemies  of 
the  country,  against  the  country,  as  he  and  his  Party  did  the  last 
"War.  You  will  recollect  how  it  used  to  affect  my  nerves,  and  how 
I  used  to  execrate  the  conduct  of  Opposition.  The  second  attempt 
at  the  same  vile  game  revolts  me  in  the  highest  degree,  and  I 
think  it  will  be  impossible  for  me  ever  to  follow  such  a  leader. 
I  have  kept  out  of  the  way,  yet  I  find  the  Country  Gentlemen 
and  many  others  much  disposed  to  follow  the  style  I  took  up  so 
vigorously  on  the  proposition  being  made  to  acknowledge  the 
Republick.  "What  I  then  said  is  vaunted  throughout  Europe  far 
beyond  what  it  deserves.  It  has  been  nobly  seconded  by  the 
Country  Gentlemen.  It  certainly  was  not  pronounced  with 
indifference,  but  with  the  most  hearty  zeal.  It  was  a  natural 
effort,  and  probably  the  best  of  the  kind  I  had  ever  made,  and 
the  friends  of  Government  said  it  was  the  best  and  most  useful 
speech  that  will  probably  be  made  this  Sessions. 

I  hear  since  my  absence  that  others  and  of  high  consequence 
are  tired  and  disgusted  with  the  uncertainty  of  the  situation  in 
which  some  of  our  friends  have  placed  themselves,  and  with  the 
multiplied  intrigues  that  have  been  used  to  keep  them  in  that 
state.  In  the  country,  by  all  accounts,  and  certainly  in  town, 
there  has  been  a  very  general  consent  to  the  measures  which 
have  been  taken  to  resist  all  that  torrent  of  evil  which  was 
pouring  in  upon  us  from  France ;  and  it  is  truly  mortifying, 
that  those,  who  have  done  great  good  by  their  early  favor  to 
those  measures,  should  suffer  their  conduct  to  be  obscured  and 
lose  the  credit  of  their  good  intentions.  I  believe  I  mentioned 
that  I  had  reason  to  suppose  L**.  L.  would  not  accept  the  Seals, 
unless  there  should  be  something  like  a  general  coalition. 
But  this  was  before  the  meeting  of  Parliament.  Several  of  my 
correspondents  say  that  he  is  certainly  to  have  them  immediately. 
The  disorganized  state  of  the  Party  and  the  wrong-headedness  of 
a  Chief  among  the  Commons  have  perhaps  promoted  it. 

In  respect  to  your  passage  to  this  country.     War  renders  it 

*  The  Parliamentary  recess  lasted  from  January  4  to  January  28,  1793. 


1793.]  EXECUTION   OF  LOUIS  XVI.  365 

very  difficult.  After  a  declaration,  you,  especially  a  notorious 
aristocrate,  will  hardly  venture  it — a  degree  of  acrimony  is  to 
be  expected,  and  ought  to  be  promoted  by  us  between  the  two 
countries.  The  Rhine  will  not  be  a  desireable  route  for  such 
an  unweildy  personage,  who  could  not  easily  shift  as  difficulties 
arose,  but  you  might  travel  the  road  by  which  Mrs.  Moss  returned, 
— by  Stutgard  and  Frankfort,  without  touching  upon  the  Rhine 
till  she  came  to  Cologne.  From  Cologne  or  Dusseldorf  you  might 
find  your  way  to  the  Hague,  and  there  our  friend  Lord  Auckland 
would  contrive  to  amuse  you  till  he  could  find  a  passage  in  a 
Frigate  for  you  to  England.  I  by  no  means  intend  to  recom- 
mend this  route  to  you  early  in  the  Spring,  but  in  Summer,  when 
the  invading  armies  will  probably  have  left  the  Rhine  in  their 
rear.  But  until  they  have  left  its  neighbourhood — Frankfort,  &c., 
I  do  not  see  a  chance  of  even  a  more  active  person  passing  that 
way  without  disagrement.  In  short,  I  should  think  you  rather 
wild  if  you  attempted  to  go  to  Paris,  even  if  there  were  not  war  ; 
and  if  you  were  there,  the  uncivilized  crowding  at  the  Pande- 
monium would  not  delight  you. 

Since  this  was  began  a  letter  from  the  D.  of  Richmond 
announces  the  horrid  account  received  yesterday  from  Paris,  that 
the  King  was  condemned  to  death  on  Sunday,  was  to  be  executed 
on  Monday,^  and  that  a  general  massacre  of  his  friends  was 
expected.  I  have  not  words  to  express  myself.  Life  cannot  be 
desireable  to  the  unfortunate  man — the  abomination  will  in  the 
end  be  useful — the  execration  of  the  World  will  be  uniform  and 
the  extirpation  of  the  miscreants  surely  must  and  will  follow. 
The  abhorrence  of  their  principles  will  be  compleat  check  to  the 
further  spreading  of  the  greatest  evils  we  have  ever  heard  of, 
and  on  account  of  the  odium  which  shall  fall  on  their  whole 
system.  I  rejoice  that  the  worse  than  savage  act  should  be  don©' 
by  the  Assembly  rather  than  by  a  tumultuous  mob.  I  can  hardly 
think  on  any  other  subject. 

Another  letter  acquaints  me  that  Parliament  will  meet  for 
business  sooner  than  I  expected.  Dundas  has  given  notice  of 
a  message  to  come  down  on  Monday  the  31st,  equivalent  to  a 
declaration  of  AVar.^ 

'  Louis  XVI.  vfas  executed  in  the  Place  de  la  Revolution  at  10.22  iu  the 
morning  of  Monday,  January  21,  1793. 

'  The  message  was  delivered  on  January  28,  laying  before  the  House  the 


366  GIBBON'S  COKRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

I  shall  send  the  diary  as  you  desire  ;  I  was  astonished  to 
receive  your  letters  with  the  Pontarlier  post-mark.  You  may 
know  best ;  I  should  not  have  supposed  France  the  surest  way  for 
them,  as  the  "War  cannot  last.  I  shall  not  think  of  selling  your 
stock  to  lay  it  out  on  a  Mortgage  at  present.  I  shall  consult 
Darrell  on  the  rational  plan  of  exchanging  the  short  annuities 
into  3  per  Cents.  I  have  told  you  more  than  once  that  I  had 
information  of  your  Madeira,  and  that  it  was  moving  towards  you 
at  last.  Whether  de  Custine  has  since  tasted  it,  I  cannot  say, 
but  I  shall  enquire.  I  fear  some  letters  must  have  miscarried. 
Mention  dates. 

I  shall  never  consent  to  your  dropping  the  Memoirs.  Keep 
that  work  always  going ;  but  you  should  decide  whether  the 
book  and  the  author  are  to  see  the  light  together,  because  it 
might  be  differently  filled  up  according  to  that  decision.  A  man 
may  state  many  things  in  a  posthumous  work,  that  he  might 
not  in  another ;  the  latter  often  checks  the  introduction  of 
many  curious  thoughts  and  facts.  But  I  like  your  Biographical 
plan  very  much.  It  will  give  great  satisfaction,  and  it  may  last  as 
long  as  yourself.  What  think  you  of  the  manner  of  Plutarch  ?  I 
shall  mention  the  matter  to  Nicholls.  Well-engraved  portraits 
is  a  decoration  that  will  be  desired  by  all.  We  have  a  slight 
work  by  Birch  ^  which  you  know,  and  which  accompanies  some 
very  good  portraits. 

We  hear  with  most  sincere  concern  of  the  state  of  that 
eminently  honest  gentleman,  poor  de  Severy,  and  were  highly 
concerned  for  the  family.  It  must  be  obvious  to  you  that  a 
tolerable  situation  for  the  son,  in  the  way  you  wish,  becomes 
every  day  more  unpromising.  Nothing  but  the  North  and  part 
of  Geraiany  is  open,  and  the  passage  there  during  the  war  will  not 
tempt  our  great  people  to  send  their  sons,  and  I  know  and  you 
may  readily  suppose  that  the  market  is  overstocked  in  the  greatest 
degree  by  the  numberless  Frenchmen  of  fashion  who  are  soliciting 
for  the  office  on  any  terms.  So  many  solicit  for  them,  Severy  has 
scarce  a  chance  during  War. 

correspondence  between  Lord  Grenville  and  M.  Chauvelin,  and  ashing  for  an 
augmentation  of  the  forces  by  sea  and  land. 

*  Tlie  Heads  of  Illustrious  Persons  of  Cheat  Britain,  with  their  Lives  and 
Characters,  2  vols,  fol.,  1743-52,  by  the  Rev.  Thomas  Birch,  D.D.  The 
engravings  are  by  Houbraken,  Gravelot,  and  Vertue. 


1793.]  FOX  AND  HIS  FOLLOWERS.  367 

I  saw  iu  a  Newspaper  some  time  ago  a  Paragraph  which  stated 
several  circumstances  concerning  your  present  situation  at 
Lausanne,  and  added  that  the  account  came  from  a  noble  Lord. 
I  was  a  good  deal  annoyed,  altho'  the  circumstance  of  great 
incorrectness  proved  that  it  did  not  come  from  me. 


614. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Downing  Street,  29th  Jan.,  '93. 

Yesterday  I  dined  with  the  Lord  High  Chancellor  Lough- 
borough and  his  Lady  just  as  he  had  returned  from  the  Queen's 
House  with  the  Seals.  I  came  from  the  country  the  day  before 
to  attend  the  King's  message,  which  you  will  see  in  the  papers. 
I  am  provoked  to  write  to  you  a  post  sooner  than  I  in- 
tended by  letters  from  a  miserable  Frenchman  in  Switzerland, 
who  signs  himself  Naijeiraud,  chez  Madame  Lizardex,  nee  Yal- 
travers,  au  Bureau  d'Avis,  a  Lausanne.  He  dates  his  letter  from 
Payerne  and  Friburg.  They  contain  expressions  of  the  greatest 
distress.  He  supposes  me  the  Director  of  all  the  hospitable 
measures  in  England.  Enquire  for  him  immediately,  do  some- 
thing for  him  immediately,  and  learn  whether  he  does  not  merit 
more.  His  letters  are  shocking  to  read.  I  shall  not  dislike  to 
pay  you  ;  yet  as  you  are  a  rich  old  fellow,  I  am  of  opinion  you  will 
take  an  opportunity  of  doing  something  yourself  or  of  ordering 
some  subscriptions  in  your  name  in  this  country. 

I  observe  no  others  going  into  office  with  Lord  Loughborough. 
The  D.  of  Port,  is  enthralled  by  Charles  Fox,  notwithstanding  he 
declares  he  thinks  as  we  do  on  the  present  topics,  who  do  not 
mean  to  follow  Ch.  Fox  again.  Many  adhere  to  D.  of  Portland 
however,  yet  highly  disapproving  C.  Fox's  conduct.  The  latter, 
Erskine  and  Grey,  &c.,  were  daily  and  publickly  with  Chauvelin, 
&c.,  before  his  departure. 

Maret^  is  just  come  with  credentials  from  the  Republick,  and 

'  Hugues  Bernard  Maret,  afterwards  Due  de  Bassano  (1763-1839),  was 
editor  of  the  Bulletin  in  which  were  reported  the  debates  of  the  National 
Assembly.  He  had  served  in  Belgium  in  concert  with  Dumouriez.  He  had 
already  been  sent  to  England  by  the  Convention.    He  now  returned  with 


368  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

it  is  said  with  carte  blanche,  and  to  enquire  whether  we  will  receive 
Dumouriez  ;  offers  to  withdraw  Troops  from  all  the  countries 
attacked,  to  do  what  we  please  in  respect  to  Commercial  Treaty, 
and  to  abide  our  arrangement  of  Peace  with  Europe.  If  this  be 
true,  it  may  embarras  ministers  here  how  to  treat  with  Pache  ^  or 
men  who  may  not  exist  two  days.  Would  it  not  be  infamous 
in  respect  to  all  Europe  to  treat  with  them  at  all  ? 

615. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edivard  Giblon. 

D.  S.,  5th  Feb.,  '93. 

I  obey  your  orders  in  sending  the  account  of  the  last  great 
debate,^  by  the  first  post.  Poor  Woodfall  is  in  a  strait  waist- 
coat, but  the  account  is  not  badly  given,  &  I  have  examined  and 
find  it  the  best.  Charles  F.  told  us  distinctly  that  the  Sove- 
reignty was  absolutely  in  the  people,  that  the  Monarchy  was 
elective,  otherwise  the  Dynasty  of  Brunswick  had  no  right,  and 
that  the  majority  of  the  people,  whenever  they  thought  proper  to 
change  the  form  of  (xovernment,  had  a  right  to  cashier  the  King. 
Perhaps  the  late  conduct  of  the  Prince  of  Wales  (you  know  he 
has  discarded  Fox,  Sheridan,  Erskine,  &c.)  has  promoted  the 
utterance  of  these  things.  That  which  was  called  Opposition 
seems  suspended  in  a  comical  state.  The  Duke  of  Portland 
adheres  to  Fox,  and  all  the  party  disapprove  Fox's  conduct  and 
almost  all  vote  against  him.  I  see  no  symptom  as  yet  of  anybody 
taking  office  with  Lord  Loughborough.  I  believe  he  is  delicate  ia 
saying  anything  lest  he  should  appear  to  use  means  to  take  from 
the  Duke  of  P.    The  war  is  popular  except  among  merchants,  and 

fuller  powers.  He  remained  in  London  till  February  after  the  dismissal  of 
Chauvelin,  and  only  left  when  the  war  was  declared.  He  was  a  favourite 
of  Napoleon,  and  Minister  of  the  Interior  under  Louis  Philippe. 

'  Jean  Nicolas  Pache  (1740-1823)  replaced  Servan  as  Minister  of  War  in 
October,  1792.  In  February,  1793,  ho  became  Mayor  of  Paris,  and  was 
responsible  for  many  of  the  worst  horrors  of  that  year. 

*  The  debate  on  the  king's  message  for  the  augmentation  of  tbe  forces 
took  place  on  February  1.  Fox  spoke  against  the  increase.  It  may  be  added 
that  Mr.  Whitbread,  speaking  on  tbe  same  side,  and  alluding  to  the  Duke  of 
Brunswick's  manifestos,  said  that  they  breathed  the  spirit  of  Attila,  "  who, 
in  the  emphatical  words  recorded  by  Mr.  G  ibbon,  had  said, '  Where  Attila's 
horse  sets  his  foot,  the  grass  never  grows.' " 


1793.]  DEATH   OF  M.  DE  SEVERY.  3G9 

those  of  London  consider  it  as  an  unavoidable  calamity.  We  are 
sending  Artillery  to  the  coasts  of  Sussex  and  Kent,  and  an  Ex- 
pedition to  the  West  Indies.  The  beginning,  particularly,  of 
Pitt's  speech  was  very  fine.  Fox's  not  so  good  as  usual ;  and  as  to 
Windham,  I  should  think  he  is  become  the  best,  at  least  the  most 
sensible  speaker  of  the  whole. 


GIG. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Begun  Feb.  9,— ended  Feb.  18,  1793. 

*The  struggle  is  at  length  over,  and  poor  de  Severy  is  no  more  ! 
He  expired  about  ten  days  ago,  after  every  vital  principle  had  been 
exhausted  by  a  perpetual  complication  of  disorders,  which  had 
lasted  above  five  months  :  and  a  mortification  in  one  of  his  legs, 
that  gradually  rose  to  the  more  noble  parts,  was  the  immediate 
cause  of  his  death.  His  patience  and  even  chearfulness  supported 
him  to  the  fatal  moment  ;  and  he  enjoyed  every  comfort  that 
could  alleviate  his  situation,  the  skill  of  his  physicians,  the 
assiduous  tenderness  of  his  family,  and  the  kind  sympathy  not 
only  of  his  particular  friends,  but  even  of  common  acquaintance, 
and  generally  of  the  whole  town.  The  stroke  has  been  severely 
felt,  yet  I  have  the  satisfaction  to  perceive  that  Madame  de 
Severy's  health  is  not  affected  ;  and  we  may  hope  that  in  time 
she  will  recover  a  tolerable  share  of  composure  and  happiness. 
Her  firmness  has  checked  the  violent  sallies  of  grief  ;  her  gentle- 
ness has  preserved  her  from  the  worst  of  symptoms,  a  dry,  silent 
despair.  She  loves  to  talk  of  her  irreparable  loss,  she  descants 
with  pleasure  on  his  virtues ;  her  words  are  interrupted  with  tears, 
but  those  tears  are  her  best  relief  ;  and  her  tender  feelings  will 
insensibly  subside  into  an  affectionate  remembrance.  Wilhelm  is 
much  more  deeply  wounded  than  I  could  imagine,  or  than  he 
expected  himself  :  nor  have  I  ever  seen  the  affliction  of  a  son  and 
heir  more  lively  and  sincere.  Severy  was  indeed  a  very  valuable 
man  :  without  any  shining  qualifications,  he  was  endowed  in  a 
high  degree  with  good  sense,  honour,  and  benevolence  ;  and  few 
men  have  filled  with  more  propriety  their  circle  in  private  life. 
For  myself,  I  have  had  the  misfortune  of  knowing  him  too  late, 

VOL.  II.  2  B 


370  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

and  of  losing  him  too  soon.    But  enough  of  this  melancholy 
subject. 

The  ajffairs  of  this  theatre,  which  must  always  be  minute,  are 
now  grown  so  tame  and  tranquil,  that  they  no  longer  deserve  the 
historian's  pen.    The  new  constitution  of  Geneva  is  slowly  form- 
ing, without  much  noise  or  any  bloodshed  ;  and  the  patriots,  who 
have  staid  in  hopes  of  guiding  and  restraining  the  multitude, 
flatter  themselves  that  they  shall  be  able  at  least  to  prevent  their 
mad  countrymen  from  giving  themselves  to  France,  the  only 
mischief  that  would  be  absolutely  irretrievable.     The  Revolution 
of  Geneva  is  of  less  consequence  to  us,  however,  than  that  of 
Savoy  ;  but  our  fate  will  depend  on  the  general  event,  rather  than 
on  these  particular  causes.     In  the  meanwhile  we  hope  to  be 
quiet  spectators  of  the  struggle  of  this  year  ;  and  we  seem  to 
have  assurances  that  both    the   Emperor  and  the   French  will 
compound  for  the  neutrality  of  the  Swiss.    The  Helvetic  body 
does  not  acknowledge  the  Republic  of  France  ;  but  Barthelemy, 
their  Ambassador,  resides  at  Baden,  and  steals,  like  Chauvelin,  into 
a  kind  of  extra  official  negociation.     All  spirit  of  opposition  is 
quelled  in  the  canton  of  Bern,  and  the  perpetual  banishment  of 
the  Van  Berchem  family  has  scarcely  excited  a  murmur.     It  will 
probably  be  followed  by  that  of  Colonel  Poller,  &c.  ;  the  crime 
alledged  in  their  sentence  is  the  having  assisted  at  the  federation 
dinner  at  RoUe  two  years  ago  ;  and  as  they  are  absent,  I  could 
almost  wish  that  they  had  been  summoned  to  appear,  and  heard 
in  their  own  defence.     To  the  general  supineness  of  the  inhabi- 
tants of  Lausanne  I  must  ascribe,  that  the  death  of  Louis  XVI. 
has  been  received  with  less  horror  and  indignation  than  I  could 
have  wished.     I  was  much  tempted  to  go  into  mom'ning,  and 
probably  should,  had  the  Dutchess  been  still  here ;  but  as  the 
only  Englishman  of  any  mark,  I  was  afraid  of  being  singular  ; 
more  especially  as  our  French  emigrants,  either  from  prudence  or 
poverty,  do  not  wear  black,  nor  do  even  the  Neckers.     Have  you 
read  his  discourse  for  the  King  ?     It  might  indeed  supersede  the 
necessity  of  mourning. 

I  should  judge  from  your  last  letter,  and  from  the  Diari/  (alas, 
poor  Woodfall ! ),  that  the  French  declaration  of  war  must  have 
rather  surprised  you.  I  wish  (though  I  know  not  how)  it  could 
have  been  avoided,  that  we  might  still  have  continued  to  enjoy 
our  safe  and  prosperous  neutrality.     You  will  not  doubt  my  best 


1793.]  FRENZY-FEVER  OP  THE  FRENCH.  371 

wishes  for  the  destruction  of  the  miscreants ;  but  I  love  England  still 
more  than  I  hate  France.  All  reasonable  chances  are  in  favour  of 
a  confederacy,  such  as  was  never  opposed  to  the  ambition  of  Louis 
XIV.  ;  but,  after  the  experience  of  last  year,  I  distrust  reason, 
and  confess  myself  fearful  for  the  event.  The  French  are  strong 
in  numbers,  activity,  enthusiasm ;  they  are  rich  in  rapine ;  and 
although  their  strength  may  be  only  that  of  a  frenzy-feaver,  they 
may  do  infinite  mischief  to  their  neighbours  before  they  can  be 
reduced  to  a  strait  wastecoat.  I  dread  the  effects  that  may  be 
produced  on  the  minds  of  the  people  by  the  increase  of  debt  and 
taxes,  probable  losses,  and  possible  mismanagement.  Our  trade 
must  suffer ;  and  though  projects  of  invasion  have  been  always, 
abortive,  I  cannot  forget  that  the  fleets  and  armies  of  Europe  have 
failed  before  the  towns  in  America,  which  have  been  taken  and 
plundered  by  a  handful  of  Buccaneers.  I  know  nothing  of  Pitt 
as  a  War  Minister  ;  but  it  affords  me  much  satisfaction  that  the 
intrepid  wisdom  of  the  new  Chancellor  is  introduced  into  the 
Cabinet.  I  wish,  not  merely  on  your  own  account,  that  you  were 
placed  in  an  active,  useful  station  in  Government.  I  should  not 
dislike  you  Secretary  at  War. 

I  have  little  more  to  say  of  myself,  or  of  my  journey  to 
England  :  you  know  my  intentions,  and  the  great  events  of 
Em'ope  must  determine  whether  they  can  be  carried  into  execution 
this  summer.  If  *****  i  has  warmly  adopted  your  idea,  I  shall 
speedily  hear  from  him  ;  but,  in  truth,  I  know  not  what  will  be 
my  answer  :  I  see  difficulties  which  at  first  did  not  occur  :  I 
doubt  my  own  perseverance,  and  my  fancy  begins  to  wander  into 
new  paths.  The  amusement  of  reading  and  thinking  may  per- 
haps satisfy  a  man  who  has  paid  his  debt  to  the  public  ;  and  there 
is  more  pleasure  in  building  castles  in  the  air  than  on  the  ground. 
I  shall  contrive'  some  small  assistance  for  your  correspondent, 
though  I  cannot  learn  any  thing  that  distinguishes  him  from 
many  of  his  countrymen.  We  have  had  om-  full  share  of  poor 
emigrants  ;  but  if  you  wish  that  any  thing  extraordinary  should 
be  done  for  this  man,  you  must  send  me  a  measure.  Adieu.  I 
embrace  My  lady  and  the  Maria,  as  also  Louisa.  Perhaps  I  may 
soon  write,  without  expecting  an  answer." 

Ever  yoiu-s, 

E.  G, 
'  Probably  Mr.  George  Nicol.     Sec  p.  359. 


372  gibbon's  correspondence.  [1793. 

617. 
Edward  Gibbon  to  Lord  Chancellor  Loughborough} 

RoUe,  February  23rd,  1793. 

*My  Lord, 

I  do  not  merely  congratulate  your  lordship's  pro- 
motion to  the  first  civil  office  in  the  kingdom  ;  an  office  which 
your  abilities  have  long  deserved,  and  which  your  temperate 
ambition,  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  had  repeatedly  declined.  My 
satisfaction  does  not  arise  from  an  assurance  of  the  wisdom  and 
vigour  which  administration  will  derive  from  the  support  of  so 
respectable  an  ally.  But  as  a  friend  to  government  in  general,  I 
most  sincerely  rejoice  that  you  are  now  armed  in  the  common 
cause  against  the  most  dangerous  fanatics  that  have  ever  invaded 
the  peace  of  Europe  ;  against  the  new  barbarians,  who  labour  to 
confound  the  order  and  happiness  of  society  ;  and  who,  in  the 
opinion  of  thinking  men,  are  not  less  the  enemies  of  subjects  than 
of  kings.  The  hopes  of  the  wise  and  good  are  now  fixed  on  the 
success  of  England  ;  and  I  am  persuaded  that  my  personal  attach- 
ment to  your  lordship  will  be  amply  gratified  by  the  important 
share  which  your  counsels  will  assume  in  that  success.  I  could 
wish  that  some  of  your  former  associates  possessed  sufficient 
strength  of  mind  to  extricate  themselves  from  the  toils  of  pre- 
judice and  party.  But  I  grieve  that  a  man,  whom  it  is  impos- 
sible for  me  not  to  love  and  admire,  should  refuse  to  obey  the 
voice  of  his  country ;  and  I  begin  to  fear  that  the  powerful 
genius  of  Mr.  Fox,  instead  of  being  useful,  will  be  adverse  to  the 
public  service.  At  this  momentous  crisis  we  should  inlist  our 
whole  force  of  virtue,  abihty,  and  spirit  ;  and  without  any  view 
to  his  private  advantage,  I  could  wish  that  our  active  friend,  Lord 
Sheffield,  might  be  properly  stationed  in  some  part  of  the  line. 

■  This  letter  is  printed  in  Lord  Campbell's  life  of  Lord  Chancellor 
Loughborough  as  from  the  Rosslyn  Manuscripts,  and  Lord  Campbell  remarks 
in  a  note  that  in  1796,  when  about  to  publish  the  first  edition  of  Gibbon's 
miscellaneous  works,  Lord  Sheffield  applied  to  Lord  Loughborough  for  per- 
mission to  include  this  letter,  but  was  refused.  He  made  a  second  appli- 
cation, offering  to  erase  his  name  and  the  name  of  his  office  (which  in  effect 
was  done),  but  "  Lord  Loughborough  was  sensitive  upon  the  subject  of  his 
coalition  with  Mr.  Pitt,  and  he  remained  inflexible."  However,  tlie  letter 
rfoeg  appear  in  the  first  edition,  a  fact  w  hich  must  have  escaped  Lord  Camp- 
bell's attention. 


1793.]  LORD  CHANCELLOR  LOUGIIBOKOUGH.  373 

M.  Necker,  in  whose  house  I  am  now  residing  on  a  visit  of 
some  days,  wishes  me  to  express  the  sentiments  of  esteem  and 
consideration  which  he  entertains  for  your  Lordship's  character. 
As  a  friend  to  the  interest  of  mankind,  he  is  warmly  attached  to 
the  wellfare  of  Great  Britain,  which  he  has  long  revered  as  the 
first,  and,  perhaps,  as  the  last  azylum  of  genuine  liberty.  His 
late  eloquent  work,  du  Pouvoir  Executif,  which  your  lordship  has 
assuredly  read,  is  a  valuable  testimony  of  his  esteem  for  our  con- 
stitution ;  and  the  testimony  of  a  sagacious  and  impartial  stranger 
may  have  taught  some  of  our  countrymen  to  value  the  political 
blessings  which  they  have  been  tempted  to  despise. 

I  cherish  a  lively  hope  of  being  in  England,  and  of  paying  my 
respects  to  your  lordship  before  the  end  of  the  summer  :  but  the 
events  of  the  year  are  so  uncertain,  and  the  sea  and  land  are 
encompassed  with  so  many  difficulties  and  dangers,  that  I  am 
doubtful  whether  it  will  be  practicable  for  me  to  execute  my 
purpose. 

I  am,  my  lord,  most  respectfully,  and  your  lordship  will  permit 
me  to  add  most  affectionately,  your  most  obedient  and  faithful 
humble  servant.* 


618. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihhon. 

D.  S.,  15th  March,  '93. 

We  had  intelligence  of  poor  de  Severy's  death  two  or  three 
weeks  before  the  receipt  of  your  letter.  I  had  always  thought  of 
him  as  you  describe  him,  "  honourable,  benevolent,  and  sensible." 
His  family  must  lament  him  for  ever,  and  I  know  none  more 
likely  to  feel  the  loss. 

As  to  the  Pais  de  Vaud,  the  thorough  diversion  caused  by  the 
^War  with  England  will  leave  it  in  a  sort  of  humiliated  security, 
but  I  have  little  doubt,  if  that  event  had  not  taken  place,  that  the 
revolutionary  principle  would  have  been  insinuated  thro'  Geneva 
to  the  Pais  de  Vaud.  The  dereliction  of  character,  to  which  the 
Swiss  have  thought  it  expedient  to  submit,  subjects  them  to  the 
whims  of  fortune  and  of  nations.  Perhaps,  if  the  World  should 
recover  its  senses,  it  may  find  itself  nearly  as  it  was,  except  what 
its  dignity  may  have  suffered ;  but  you  do  not  deserve  to  be  a 


374  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

nation,  wretches  so  eompleatly  in  awe  of  the  sans  cullotes,  that 
they  did  not  dare  even  to  wear  mourning.  As  for  you,  you  are  a 
damned,  unworthy,  temporizing  son  of  a  bitch,  and  shall  only  be 
deemed  a  renegado  Englishman  in  future.  Never  was  a  mourning 
so  general  in  England.^  I  did  not  (who  seldom  wore  it  in  the 
morning  before)  quit  it  for  a  quarter  of  a  moment,  I  was  glad  to 
see  the  lower  ranks  indignant,  although  to  be  sure  Louis  XVI  .'s 
fort  was  being  a  martyr.  It  may  be  also  added  that  a  more 
innocent  man  was  never  more  undeservedly  put  to  death.  I 
should  have  been  indeed  astonished  that  the  Neckers  did  not  wear 
mourning,  if  the  panic  meanness  had  not  been  so  general  in  your 
parts.  Although  I  may  not  flatter  myself  that  sans  cidotterie 
will  be  suppressed  in  one  campaign,  yet  I  have  few  doubts  in 
respect  to  the  success  of  the  Armies  which  attack  France, 
especially  after  the  experience  of  last  campaign.  It  will  not  be 
necessary  to  take  the  beast  by  the  horns  and  attack  artillery 
in  front,  &c.  In  such  a  country  as  where  war  now  flourishes,  it 
will  be  easy  to  turn  an  enemy,  and  when  an  Army  like  that 
of  France  in  such  a  case  is  obliged  to  make  a  movement,  it 
is  undone.  As  to  the  equipment  of  fleets,  we  seem  to  make  a 
poor  business  of  it,^  Lord  Sandwich  in  a  fortnight  did  much  more 
than  we  have  done  in  three  months  and  an  halfe  ;  a  timid  style  in 
respect  to  pressing  produces  the  evil. 

I  manoeuvred  your  business  in  respect  to  Nichols  in  my  best 
possible  manner.  In  return  to  my  wishing  he  could  tempt  you 
and  that  I  would  second,  he  talked  most  feelingly  that  he  and 
Boydell  had  £40,000 — everything — involved  in  the  Shakespear. 
He  seemed  to  wish  to  talk  over  such  a  subject  when  you  come 
to  England.  He  thought  such  a  work  would  be  more  than  you 
could  undertake,  suggested  the  idea  of  your  being  the  Chief — 
shewed  me  the  Life  of  Milton  by  Hailey,  prefixed  to  Mr.  Cowper's 
edition,  and  said  that  kind  of  writing  was  his  fort.     Persevere  ;  as 

'  "All  ranks  of  people  have  put  on  mourning  for  the  unfortunate  king." 
Lady  Malmesbury  to  Lady  Elliot,  January  28,  1793  (Jjifc  and  Letters  of  Sir 
G.  Elliot,  vol.  ii.  p.  110). 

*  Throughout  1793,  and  especially  in  September,  Lord  Chatham  as  First 
Lord  of  tiie  Admiralty  was  in  dispute  with  the  Master  of  the  Ordnance,  the 
Duke  of  Richmond.  One  alleged  that  the  fleet  was  ready  but  that  the 
guns  were  not ;  the  other  stated  that  the  ships  were  not  ready  to  take 
the  guns.  Lord  Sandwich  was  Lord  of  the  Admiralty  during  the  American 
War. 


1793.]  MADAME  DE   STAEL  IN  ENGLAND.  375 

you  may  be  in  England  in  a  few  months  it  is  unnecessary  to  say 
more  at  present. 

I  have  sent  by  Seigneux,  Lally's  defence  of  Louis  XVI.,  and 
Le  Songe  d'un  Anglois  ;  ^  you  will  be  pleased  with  both.  I  sent 
*  Modern  Gardening,' "  and  the  '  Standing  Orders  of  my  Eegiment,' 
to  Meluner,  the  Captain  of  Highlanders,  with  whom  we  were  so 
much  pleased.  I  sent  in  the  same  parcel  a  number  of  odd  things 
relative  to  Establishments,  Insurance,  &c.,  which  Commissioner 
Fischer  might  like,  but  I  was  obliged  to  reduce  the  parcel  on 
account  of  its  size,  and  I  know  not  whether  the  remainder  is 
worth  sending  to  him — but  you  will  judge. 

Madame  de  StaeP  has  lived  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Dorking 
with  Miss  Burney,  not  forgetting  M.  de  Narbonne.  She  is 
lately  come  to  town  ;  we  endeavour  to  be  civil.  I  am  to  conduct 
her  to  the  Tower,  &c.,  and  she  and  some  of  her  friends  are  to  dine 
here.  Small  assistance  will  be  sufficient  for  my  correspondent, 
of  whom  I  know  nothing  but  his  letter,  and  you  say  he  has 
nothing  to  distinguish  him.  I  have  applied  to  those  who  were 
likely  to  be  useful  on  the  subject  of  what  you  mentioned  for 
Wilhelm  de  S.,  but  as  yet  without  a  glimpse  of  success.  The 
market  is  over-stocked.  The  travelleable  country  is  greatly 
circumscribed,  and  the  measure  of  sending  a  leader  is  greatly 
exploded.  I  spoke  to  Lord  Porchester,'*  and  he  with  great  satis- 
faction asserted  the  excellence  of  the  line  he  had  pursued  of  send- 
ing his  son  with  his  schoolfellow.  As  speaking  to  people  on  these 
matters  does  not  make  so  much  impression  as  writing,  I  have 
applied  to  some  by  letter. 

^  The  Songe  d'un  Anglois  and  the  Plaidoyer  pour  Louis  XVI.,  both  by 
Lally  ToUendal,  are  printed  in  the  second  volume  (pp.  251-286  and  357-388) 
of  the  "Collection  deB  meilleurs  ouvrages  qui  ont  ete  public's  pour  la 
De'fense  de  Louis  XVI.,"  par  A.  J.  du  Gour:  Paris,  1796.  From  an 
autograph  letter  in  George  III.'s  copy  of  Strafford,  it  appears  that  Lally, 
through  Lady  Sheffield,  presented  a  copy  of  the  Plaidoyer  to  the  king. 

*  Probably  Horace  Walpole's  Essay  on  Modern  Gardening,  -which  was 
■written  in  1770,  and  printed  at  the  Strawberry  Hill  Press  in  1785  (-Ito),  with 
a  French  translation  on  opposite  pages  by  the  Due  de  Nivernois. 

'  "  Madame  de  Stael,  daughter  of  M.  Necker,  is  now  at  the  head  of  the 
colony  of  French  noblesse,  established  near  Mickleham.  She  is  one  of 
the  first  women  I  have  ever  met  with  for  abilities  and  extraordinary  in- 
tellect." Miss  Burney  to  Dr.  Burney,  February  4,  1793  {Diary  and  Letters, 
vol.  V.  p.  394). 

*  Lord  Porchester,  son  of  Gen.  the  Hon.  "W.  Herbert,  fifth  son  of  the 
Earl  of  Pembroke,  was  created  Earl  of  Carnarvon  in  July,  1793. 


376  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDEXCE.  [1793. 

G19. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihhoa. 

D.  S.,  26tli  March,  '93. 

My  letter  of  last  week  did  not  enter  on  your  affairs  of  money 
because  Darell  had  not  given  me  a  final  opinion ;  yesterday  we 
had  a  full  discourse  thereon.  The  3  per  cents  may  sink  more 
in  proportion  than  the  short  annuities.  The  latter  have  fallen 
more  than  Mr.  Darell  expected,  which  he  acknowledged  when 
I  remarked  the  opinion  he  had  formerly  given  you.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  3  per  cents  are  (for  war-like  times)  surprisingly 
high.  The  constant  regular  purchase  of  one  million  of  the  stocks 
in  the  course  of  a  year  takes  the  whole  of  the  floating  stock ; 
the  great  bankruptcies  which  have  taken  place,  and  the  shyness 
cf  our  monied  men  to  discount  Bills, — all  these  circumstances 
keep  up  the  Funds.  The  extravagant  extension  of  credit  have 
produced  the  evil  that  was  expected.  It  has  been  carried  beyond 
anything  that  was  ever  known  before.  The  War  has  helped  to 
bring  forward  the  crisis,  but  is  not  the  cause  of  the  mischief. 

We  seem  to  be  en  train  to  receive  good  tidings  by  every 
mail,  but  I  cannot  be  content  on  the  subject  of  our  Fleet.  The 
Publick  begins  to  arraign  the  First  Lord  of  Admiralty  in  respect 
to  alertness  and  attention.  It  is  extraordinary  that  John  Bull 
bore  so  long  the  alarming  state  of  the  Mediterranean,  52  French 
ships  of  war  of  all  sizes  riding  triumphant  and  insulting  all  nations 
in  that  sea— a  superior  French  Fleet  also  in  the  West  Indies. 
I  flatter  myself  however  we  are  going  to  do  something  there ; 
nothing  can  prove  the  abject  state  of  Holland  more  than  the 
extreme  joy  on  receiving  the  pitifull  succour  of  2000  English 
troops.  The  circumstance  of  sending  the  King's  son^  had  the 
greatest  effect,  and  proved  that  England  was  in  earnest. 

Your  late  neglects  have  almost  obliterated  your  famous  three 
letters.  You  do  not  say  whether  you  have  received  any  letters 
from  us ;  not  the  least  notice  is  taken  of  Maria's  or  my  letters. 
She  wrote  a  good  deal  on  our  Politicks,  she  sent  my  much  admired 
Foxippic  copied  from  the  Newspaper,  also  a  detail  of  the  massacre 
of  the  priests  aux  Carmes,  and  other  matters.     The  Chancellor 

•  The  Duke  of  York. 


1703.]  DEATH  OF  LADY  SHEFFIELD.  377 

leaned  from  the  Woolsack  a  few  days  ago,  to  tell  rae  he  had  a 
letter  from  you,  and  asked  where  was  Rolle.  I  am  so  abominably 
engaged  that  we  seldom  meet. 

We  had  a  very  pleasant  party  here  at  dinner  last  Saturday  to 
meet  Madame  de  Stael,  the  Prince  de  Poix,  Lally  Tollendal,  Princess 
d'Henin,  Malouet,  Baron  de  Gillier.  Narbonne  was  invited,  but 
engaged.  We  all  went  in  the  evening  to  Lady  Catherine  Douglas, 
where  Madame  de  Stael  rather  astonished  the  Chancellor.  In 
conversation  she  disputed  every  principle  of  Government  and 
Politicks — a  kind  of  tete-a-tete.  There  is  a  great  prejudice  against 
her.  She  is  supposed  to  be  the  most  intriguing  democrate  likely 
to  set  the  Thames  on  fire.  I  can  hardly  get  people  to  agree  that 
she  is  eminently  lively,  pleasant,  endowed  with  extraordinary 
mental  ability,  though  somewhat  ridiculous.  She  goes  out  of 
Town  Tuesday,  and  talks  of  going  soon  to  Switzerland. 

You  do  not  mention  whether  you  have  rec''.  your  Madeira. 
I  have  heard  nothing  lately  of  Mrs.  Gibbon.  I  have  hopes  you 
will  soon  have  a  clear  country  to  Frankfort,  Cologne,  and  the 
Hague.  My  Lady  and  Maria  contrive  to  go  out  daily.  The 
latter  not  well. 


620. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Lausanne,  April  27,  1793. 

"My  Dearest  Friend,  for  such  you  most  truly  are,  nor  does 
there  exist  a  person  who  obtains,  or  shall  ever  obtain,  a  superior 
place  in  my  esteem  and  affection. 

After  too  long  a  silence  I  was  sitting  down  to  write,  when, 
only  yesterday  morning  (such  is  now  the  irregular  slowness  of  the 
Enghsh  post)  I  was  suddenly  struck,  indeed  struck  to  the  heart, 
by  the  fatal  intelligence  ^  from  Sir  Henry  Clinton  and  M.  de  Lally, 
Alas  !  what  is  life,  and  what  are  our  hopes  and  projects  !  When 
I  embraced  her  at  your  departure  from  Lausanne,  could  I  imagine 
that  it  was  for  the  last  time  ?  When  I  postponed  to  another 
summer  my  journey  to  England,  could  I  apprehend  that  I  never, 

'  Lady  SheflSeld  died  April  3,  1793.  Her  death  is  said  to  have  been 
occasioned  by  her  attendance  upon  the  sick  emigres  at  Guy's  hospital 
{Gentlemu'n's  Magazine  for  1793,  part  i.  p.  379). 


378  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

never  should  see  her  again  ?  I  have  often  deplored  the  nervous 
complaints  which  so  deeply  affected  her  happiness  and  spirits,  but 
I  always  hoped  that  she  would  spin  her  feeble  thread  to  a  long 
duration,  and  that  her  delicate  frame  would  survive  (as  is  often 
the  case)  many  constitutions  of  a  stouter  appearance.  In  four 
days  !  in  your  absence,  in  that  of  her  children  !  But  she  is  now 
at  rest ;  and  if  there  be  a  future  state,  her  mild  virtues  have 
surely  entitled  her  to  the  reward  of  pure  and  perfect  felicity.  It 
is  for  you  that  I  feel ;  and  I  can  judge  of  your  sentiments  by 
comparing  them  with  my  own.  I  have  lost,  it  is  true,  an  amiable 
and  affectionate  friend,  whom  I  had  known  and  loved  above  three 
and  twenty  years,  and  whom  I  often  styled  by  the  endearing  name 
of  sister.  But  you  are  deprived  of  the  companion  of  your  life, 
the  wife  of  your  choice,  and  the  mother  of  your  children — poor 
children  !  The  energy  of  Maria,  and  the  softness  of  Louisa, 
render  them  almost  equally  the  objects  of  my  tenderest  compassion. 
I  do  not  wish  to  aggravate  your  grief  ;  but,  in  the  sincerity  of 
friendship,  I  cannot  hold  a  different  language.  I  know  the 
impotence  of  reason,  and  I  much  fear  that  the  strength  of  your 
character  will  serve  to  make  a  sharper  and  more  lasting  im- 
pression. 

The  only  consolation  in  these  melancholy  tryals  to  which 
human  life  is  exposed,  the  only  one  at  least  in  which  I  have  any 
confidence,  is  the  presence  of  a  real  friend  ;  and  of  that,  as  far  as 
it  depends  on  myself,  you  shall  not  be  destitute.  I  regret  the  few 
days  that  must  be  lost  in  some  necessary  preparations  ;  but  I  trust 
that  to-morrow  se'nnight  (May  the  fifth)  I  shall  be  able  to  set 
forwards  on  my  journey  to  England  ;  and  when  this  letter  reaches 
you,  I  shall  be  considerably  advanced  on  my  way.  As  it  is  yet 
prudent  to  keep  at  a  respectful  distance  from  the  banks  of  the 
French  Rhine,  I  shall  incline  a  little  to  the  right,  and  proceed 
by  Schaffhausen  and  Stutgard  to  Frankfort  and  Cologne  :  the 
Austrian  Netherlands  are  now  open  and  safe,  and  I  am  sure  of 
being  able  at  least  to  pass  from  Ostend  to  Dover  ;  from  whence, 
without  passing  through  London,  I  shall  pursue  the  direct  road 
to  Sheffield-place.  Unless  I  should  meet  with  some  unforeseen 
accidents  and  delays,  I  hope,  before  the  end  of  the  month,  to  share 
your  solitude,  and  sympathise  with  your  grief.  All  the  difficulties 
of  the  journey,  which  my  indolence  had  probably  magnified,  have 
now  disappeared  before  a  stronger  passion  ;  and  you  will  not  be 


1793.]  ADVICE  FOR  FRIENDS  IN  GRIEF.  379 

sorry  to  hear,  that,  as  far  as  Frankfort  to  Cologne,  I  shall  enjoy 
the  advantage  of  the  society,  the  conversation,  the  German 
language,  and  the  active  assistance  of  Severy.  His  attachment 
to  me  is  the  sole  motive  which  prompts  him  to  undertake  this 
troublesome  Journey :  and  as  soon  as  he  has  seen  me  over  the 
roughest  ground,  he  will  immediately  return  to  Lausanne.  The 
poor  young  man  loved  Lady  S.  as  a  mother,  and  the  whole  family 
is  deeply  affected  by  an  event  which  reminds  them  too  painfully 
of  their  own.  Adieu.  I  could  write  Volumes,  and  shall  therefore 
break  off  abruptly.  I  shall  write  on  the  road,  and  hope  to  find 
a  few  lines  a  poste  restante  at  Frankfort  and  Brussells.  Adieu  ; 
ever  yours.* 


621. 

To  Lord  Sheffield, 


Lausanne,  May,  1793. 


*My  dear  Friend, 

I  must  write  a  few  lines  before  my  departure,  though 
indeed  I  scarcely  know  what  to  say.  Nearly  a  fortnight  has  now 
elapsed  since  the  first  melancholy  tidings,  without  my  having 
received  the  slightest  subsequent  accounts  of  your  health  and 
situation.  Your  own  silence  announces  too  forcibly  how  much 
you  are  involved  in  your  own  feelings  ;  and  I  can  but  too  easily 
conceive  that  a  letter  to  me  would  be  more  painful  than  to  an 
indifferent  person.  But  that  amiable  man,  Count  Lally,  might 
surely  have  written  a  second  time  ;  but  your  sister,  who  is  probably 
with  you  ;  but  Maria,  alas  !  poor  Maria  !  I  am  left  in  a  state  of 
darkness  to  the  workings  of  my  own  fancy,  which  imagines  every 
thing  that  is  sad  and  shocking.  What  can  I  think  of  for  your 
relief  and  comfort  ?  I  will  not  expatiate  on  those  common-place 
topics,  which  have  never  dryed  a  single  tear  ;  but  let  me  advise, 
let  me  urge,  you  to  force  yourself  into  business,  as  I  would  try  to 
force  myself  into  study.  The  mind  must  not  be  idle  ;  if  it  be  not 
exercised  on  external  objects,  it  will  prey  on  its  own  vitals. 

A  thousand  little  arrangements,  which  must  precede  a  long 
Journey,  have  postponed  my  departure  three  or  four  days  beyond 
the  term  which  I  had  first  appointed ;  but  all  is  now  in  order,  and 
I  set  off  to-moi-row,  the  ninth  instant,  with  my  Yalet  de  Chambre, 
a  courier  on  horseback,  and  Severy,  with  his  servant,  as  far  as 


380  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

Frankfort.  I  calculate  my  arrival  at  Sheffield-place  (how  I  dread 
and  desire  to  see  that  mansion  !)  for  the  first  week  in  June,  soon 
after  this  letter  ;  but  I  will  try  to  send  you  some  later  intelligence. 
I  never  found  myself  stronger,  or  in  better  health.  The  German 
road  is  now  cleared,  both  of  enemies  and  allies,  and  though  I  must 
expect  fatigue,  I  have  not  any  apprehensions  of  danger.  It  is 
scarcely  possible  that  you  should  meet  me  at  Frankfort,  but  I 
shall  be  much  disappointed  at  not  finding  a  line  at  Brussels  or 
Ostend.  Adieu.  If  there  be  any  invisible  guardians,  may  they 
watch  over  you  and  yours  !     Adieu."* 

G21*. 

To  Lady  Elisabeth  Foster. 

Lausanne,  May  the  4tli,  1793. 

I  know  not  whether  you  are  already  informed  of  the  sudden 
death  of  poor  Lady  Sheffield  after  four  days'  illness ;  but  I .  am 
sure  that  your  feeling  affectionate  mind  will  not  be  surprized 
to  hear  that  I  set  out  for  England  next  week,  and  that  in  a 
journey  undertaken  at  the  call  of  friendship  all  the  dragons  of 
the  way  have  already  vanished.  I  go  by  Basle,  Frankfort, 
Cologne,  Brussels,  and  Ostend,  and  I  flatter  myself  that  the 
success  of  our  allied  arms  will  contribute  every  week  to  open  my 
passage  ;  it  is  even  possible,  though  scarcely  probable,  that  I  may 
embark  from  the  English  town  of  Calais.  Your  answer  to  my 
last  letter  is  doubtless  on  the  road  and  will  follow  me  :  but  you 
must  write  immediately  to  Sheffield  place,  and  I  promise  you  a 
speedy  and  sincere  account  of  our  afflicted  friend.  I  wish  to  hear 
of  your  motions  and  projects ;  I  now  sigh  for  your  return  to 
England,  and  shall  be  most  bitterly  disappointed  if  I  have  not 
the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  in  that  happy  island,  yourself  and 
the  most  amiable  of  Dutchesses  before  the  end  of  the  autumn  : 
I  cannot  look  with  confidence  beyond  that  period. 

My  friend  and  your  Chevalier  ^  will  guard  me  as  far  as  Cologne 
or  Frankfort ;  his  tender  attachment  to  his  mother  who  is  still 
very  melancholy  will  recall  him  from  thence  to  Lausanne  ;  but  in 
the  course  of  next  winter  he  has  thoughts  of  visiting  England. 
The  circumstances  of  the  times  which  impoverish  every  one,  have 

'  Wilhelm  de  Severy. 


1793]  JOURNEY  TO  ENGLAND.  3S1 

persuaded  him  to  listen  to  my  advice  of  conducting  on  his  travels 
some  English  pupill  of  fashion  and  fortune.  Such  a  pupill  will 
be  fortunate  in  finding  a  real  Gentleman,  and  I  trust  that  the 
Dutchess  and  yourself  will  exert  your  omnipotence  in  providing 
some  connection  equally  honourable  and  advantageous  for  my 
friend,  and  your  sincere  Votary.  Adieu.  Excuse  brevity  and 
address  a  Classic  prayer  in  my  behalf  before  some  statue  of 
Mercury  the  God  of  travellers. 


622. 

To  his  StepmotJier. 
Lausanne,  May  the  8th  (my  fifty-seventh  birthday),  1703. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  have  the  pleasure  of  acquainting  you  that  to-morrow, 
the  9th  instant,  I  set  forwards  for  England,  but  the  pleasure  of 
revisiting  my  friends  and  my  native  country  is  deeply  embittered 
by  the  melancholy  tidings  from  Downing  Street,  which  have  fixed 
and  hastened  my  Journey.  I  travel  by  the  way  of  Frankfort 
and  Brussells,  and  your  tenderness  should  not  feel  the  slightest 
apprehension  for  my  safety.  Every  enquiry  is  made,  every  con- 
venience is  provided,  every  precaution  is  taken,  and  though  there 
will  undoubtedly  be  some  fatigue,  I  can  assure  you  with  truth, 
that  there  does  not  remain  the  shadow  of  a  danger.  I  may  expect 
to  reach  Sheffield-place  the  first  week  in  June,  from  whence  I  will 
immediately  give  you  a  line.  My  first  cares  must  be  devoted  to 
poor  Lord  S. ,  whose  grief  I  feel  and  even  fear,  but  I  shall  be  im- 
patient to  see  the  Belvidere  and  the  maternal  countenance  of  my 
most  faithful  friend.  May  the  progress  of  fine  weather  confirm 
jour  health  and  spirits.  My  own  are  perfectly  good,  and  I 
never,  in  my  whole  life,  found  myself  better  qualified  for  a  long 
Journey. 

I  am.  Dear  Madam, 
Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 


382  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

623. 
Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gihlon. 

Mercer's  Hall,  14th  May,  1793. 

"We  shall  ever  acknowledge  that  you  are  a  right  good  friend. 
I  was  hardly  able  to  read  your  letter.  This  is  the  first  foreign 
post  since  its  arrival.  I  had  hopes  you  would  come  forthwith, 
but  hardly  expected  such  an  effort  as  your  speedy  departure 
required,  Maria  &  Louisa  rejoice  at  your  approach,  Sarah  is 
with  us.  Your  apartment  will  be  prepared  ;  your  letter  arrived 
too  late  for  me  to  write  to  you  at  Francfort.  I  shall  address 
this  to  Brussels,  All  Friends  wish  me  to  involve  myself  as  much 
as  possible  in  business  ;  I  am  so  with  a  vengeance  in  a  commission  ^ 
(at  the  Head  of  which  I  am)  for  the  Issue  of  5  millions  of 
Exchequer  Bills  for  the  relief  of  Commercial  Credit — a  matter 
very  interesting  indeed,  &  which  I  flatter  myself  will  be  of  great 
service.  I  pass  the  day  at  Mercer's  Hall  with  my  fellow  Com- 
missioners— 16  of  the  chief  men  of  the  City,  excellent  men,  and 
four  others. 

Yours  ever, 

S. 

624. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Frankfort,  May  19th,  1793. 

*And  here  I  am,  in  good  health  and  spirits,  after  one  of  the 
easiest,  safest,  and  pleasantest  journies  which  I  ever  performed 
in  my  whole  life  ;  not  the  appearance  of  an  enemy,  and  hardly 
the  appearance  of  a  War.  Yet  I  hear,  as  I  am  writing,  the 
canon  of  the  siege  of  Mayence,^  at  the  distance  of  twenty  miles  r 

*  A  select  committee  appointed  (April  25, 1793)  to  consider  the  state  of 
commercial  credit  reported  (April  29),  recommending,  inter  alia,  that  five 
millions  should  be  issued  in  Exchequer  Bills  for  the  relief  of  credit.  The 
report  was  considered  on  April  30 ;  a  resolution,  and  subsequently  a  Bill,, 
■were  carried  for  the  issue  of  the  Bills.  A  commission  was  appointed 
(May  3),  with  Lord  Sheffield  at  the  head  of  it,  to  eifect  the  necessary 
arrangements. 

*  Mayence  was  invested  by  the  Prussian  and  Austrian  forces  early  in 
April,  1793.    It  was  surrendered  July  22, 1793. 


1793.]     FRENCH  COURAGE  DESERVES  BETTER  CAUSE.      383 

and  long,  very  long,  will  it  be  heard.  It  is  confessed  on  all  sides, 
that  the  French  fight  with  a  courage  worthy  of  a  better  cause  : 
the  town  of  Mayence  is  strong,  their  artillery  admirable  ;  they 
are  already  reduced  to  horse-flesh,  but  they  have  still  the  resource 
of  eating  the  inhabitants,  and  at  last  of  eating  one  another  ;  and, 
if  that  repast  could  be  extended  to  Paris  and  the  whole  country, 
it  might  essentially  contribute  to  the  relief  of  mankind.  Our 
operations  are  carried  on  with  more  than  German  slowness,  and 
when  the  besieged  are  quiet,  the  besiegers  are  perfectly  satisfied 
with  their  progress.  A  spirit  of  division  undoubtedly  prevails  ; 
and  the  character  of  the  Prussians  for  courage  and  discipline  is 
sunk  lower  then  you  can  possibly  imagine.  Their  glory  has 
expired  with  Frederic.  I  am  sorry  to  have  missed  Lord  Elgin,^ 
who  is  beyond  the  Rhine  with  the  King  of  Prussia.  As  I  am 
impatient,  I  propose  setting  forwards  to-morrow  afternoon,  and 
shall  reach  Ostend  in  less  than  eight  days.  The  passage  must 
depend  on  winds  and  packets ;  and  I  hope  to  find  at  Brussels  or 
Dover  a  letter  which  Avill  direct  me  to  S.  P.  or  Downing-street. 
Severy  goes  back  from  hence.     Adieu  :  I  embrace  the  dear  Girls. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G." 

625. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Brussels,  May  27,  1793. 
*This  day,  between  two  and  three  o'Clock  in  the  afternoon,  I 
am  arrived  at  this  place  in  excellent  preservation.  My  expedition, 
which  is  now  drawing  to  a  close,  has  been  a  journey  of  persever- 
ance rather  than  speed,  of  some  labour  since  Frankfort,  but 
without  the  smallest  degree  of  difficulty  or  danger.  As  I  have 
every  morning  been  seated  in  the  Chaise  soon  after  sun-rise,  I 
propose  indulging  to-morrow  till  eleven  o'Clock,  and  going  that 
day  no  farther  than  Ghent :  on  Wednesday  the  29th  instant  I 
shall  reach  Ostend  in  good  time,  just  eight  days,  according  to 
my  former  reckoning,  from  Frankfort.     Beyond  that  I  can  say 

>  Thomas,  Lord  Elgin,  was  appointed  in  August,  1792,  Envoy  Extra- 
ordinary at  Brussels.  Subsequently  appointed  Ambassador  at  ConstantinoiJle 
in  1799,  he  collected  the  Elgin  marbles. 


38i  GIBBON'S  CORRESPOXDEXOE.  [1793. 

notliing  positive ;  but  sliould  the  winds  be  propitious,  it  is 
possible  that  I  may  appear  next  Saturday,  June  1st,  in  Downing 
Street.  After  that  earliest  date,  you  will  expect  me  day  by  day 
till  I  arrive.  Adieu.  I  embrace  the  dear  Girls,  and  salute  Mrs. 
Holroyd.  I  rejoyce  that  you  have  anticipated  my  advice  of 
plunging  into  business ;  but  I  should  now  be  sorry  if  that 
business,  however  important,  detained  us  long  in  town.  I  do  not 
wish  to  make  a  public  exhibition,  and  only  sigh  to  enjoy  you  and 
the  precious  remnant  in  the  solitude  of  Sheffield-place. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 
If  I  am  successful  I  may  outstrip  or  accompany  this  letter. 
Yours  and  Maria's  waited  for  me  here,  and  overpaid  the  Journey.* 


626. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Downiflg  Street,  June  13tli,  1793. 

Dear  Madam, 

As  you  know  that  I  am  now  safe,  well  and  happy  at  my 
friend  Lord  Sheffield,  you  will  easily  excuse  a  delay  of  some  days 
in  my  promised  letter. 

As  long  as  I  was  on  the  road,  and  it  was  a  long  time,  your 
apprehensions,  I  am  much  afraid,  were  awakened  not  so  much  in 
proportion  to  the  real  magnitude  of  the  danger,  as  to  the  exquisite 
sensibility  of  your  own  feelings.  For  my  own  part,  though  the 
scene  was  nearer  and  more  familiar  to  me,  I  must  fairly  own, 
that  I  saw  through  a  magnifyer,  and  that  my  resolution  to  visit 
Lord  Sheffield  in  his  state  of  affliction  was  an  effort  of  some 
•courage.  But  I  was  most  agreably  surprized  to  find  the  Lyons 
whom  I  had  seen  at  a  distance  become  little  gentle  lap-dogs  on  a 
■nearer  approach.  I  wheeled  round  behind  the  armies  by  the  way 
of  Basel,  Frankfort,  Cologne,  Brussells,  and  Ostend,  without 
meeting  with  any  hostile  impediment,  and  indeed  without  seeing 
the  face  of  a  Soldier.  My  passage  from  Ostend  was  short  and 
■prosperous,  and  I  reached  Downing  Street  not  in  the  least  affected 
by  the  fatigue  of  a  rough  and  tedious  journey.  I  found  Lord  S. 
much  better  and  even  more  chearful  than  I  could  have  expected  : 
he  feels  his  loss,  but  the  new  scenes  of  public  business  in  which 


1793.]  MRS.  GIBBON'S  JOY.  385 

he  verily  wisely  engaged  have  alleviated  his  grief  by  occupying 

his  mind.    The  Ladies  are  gone  into  the  Country,  and  he  proposes 

to  follow  them  next  week.     I  could  much  have  wished  to  visit 

Bath  without  delay  :  but  Lord  S.  will  not  hear  of  so  early  a 

separation,  and  as  he  is  the  immediate  object  of  my  journey, 

I  must  submit,  unless  you  particularly  desire  to  see  me  very 

soon.     Adieu. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  am  ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

627. 

Mrs.  Gibbon  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Thursday  Noon. 

My  Dearest  Sir, 

I  truely  rejoice,  &  congratulate  you  on  your  being: 
once  more  safely  arrived  in  your  native  Country  ;  may  health  &■ 
happiness  attend  you  in  it.  I  am  so  happy  that  you  have  escaped 
all  the  evils  I  foresaw  &  dreaded,  that  I  find  myself  better  then  I 
have  been  this  year,  &  this  letter  is  a  proof  of  it ;  my  last  but  one 
was  to  you,  as  a  complaint  in  my  head  frighted  me  from  at- 
tempting to  use  a  pen,  &  I  hope  the  forbearance  has  cured  it. 
I  wish'd  to  tell  you  so  yesterday,  but  the  joy  your  letter  gave 
would  not  suffer  my  hand  to  be  steady  enough  to  write.  I  thank 
you  most  sincerely  for  writing  so  soon,  &  shall  impatiently  expect 
the  letter  you  promise  me.  I  am  glad  you  are  with  Lord 
Sheffield.  When  you  write  tell  me  how  he  does  ;  &  the  young 
ladies  are.  I  shall  soon  acknowledge  Mrs,  Holroyd's  kindness  in 
Avriting  to  me  ;    make  best  &  kindest  Compliments  for  me,  &. 

believe  me, 

My  Dear  Sir, 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

D.  Gibbon. 

628. 
Mrs.  Gibbon  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Belvedere,  Bath,  August  29,  '93. 

My  Dear  Sir, 

I   have  but  one  excuse   for  not   answering  your  last- 
letter,  to  wit,  not  being  able,  as  I  could  not  hold  a  pen  steady 
VOL.  II.  2  c 


386  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

enough  to  write  ;  yet  I  never  felt  myself  happier,  because  I  never 
was  so  miserable,  as  from  the  time  those  vile  miscreants  the 
french  Democrats  was  within  forty  miles  of  Lausanne,  till  you 
arrived  safe  in  England.  Many  has  been  the  disappointments  I 
have  borne  with  fortitude,  but  the  fear  of  having  my  last  & 
only  friend  torn  from  me,  was  very  near  overseting  my  reason  : 
my  aggitation  prevented  my  feeling  my  excessive  weakness,  till 
after  I  had  answered  your  letter,  which  gave  me  a  joy  I  shall 
never  again  experience,  at  least  I  hope  not,  as  I  trust  you  will 
not  be  any  more  expos'd  to  such  eminent  danger. 

If  I  have  the  satisfaction  of  seeing  you  next  month,  I  shall 
be  more  able  to  enjoy  your  Conversation,  as  my  health  & 
.strength  are  wonderfully  improv'd  within  this  fortnight  ;  but  as 
much  as  I  long  to  see  you,  I  would  not  be  the  cause  of  bringing 
you  from  agreeable  partys,  &  places  you  like,  till  it  is  conve- 
nient to  you  to  come.  I  have  not  been  out  this  twelve  month, 
dare  not  encounter  the  heat,  &  have  little  company  at  home. 
Your  friend  Mrs.  Gould  is  as  agreeable  as  ever,  Mrs.  E,.  grows  old, 
.Mrs.  Shelly  just  as  usual.  Madame  Ely  &  Mrs.  Bonfoy  are  here. 
Mrs.  Holroyd  has  probably  told  you  that  Miss  Gould  is  now  Mrs. 
.Horneck.     I  wish  she  had  been  Mrs.  Gibbon. 

I  am  very  sorry  to  hear  Miss  Louisa  Holroyd's  health  is  so 
indifferent,  she  is  a  charming  girle,  &  her  sister  a  very  fine  one, 
pray  say  every  thing  that  is  kind  to  both  the  Ladies  for  me ; 
make  my  best  compliments  to  Lord  Sheffield,  I  make  my  own  to 
Mrs.  Holroyd  ;  let  me  know  when  I  may  hope  to  see  you,  and 
believe  me  to  be, 

My  Dear  Sir, 

Your  most  affectionate 

D.  Gibbon. 

629. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Sheffield  Place,  Sept.  3,  1793. 

Dear  Madam, 

Many  days  have  passed  away,  since  I  have  received  any 
letter  so  truly,  so  dearly  acceptable  as  your  last.  I  had  no 
occasion  indeed  for  any  fresh  assurances  of  that  regard  and 
tenderness  which  I  have  invariably  known  and  felt  during  the 


1793]  ANXIETY  TO  SEE  MRS,   GIBBON.  387 

space  of  thirty-five  years :  but  I  was  delighted  at  seeing  under 
your  own  hand,  and  again  confirmed  by  your  letter  of  the  same 
date  to  Mrs.  Holroyd,  the  clearest  evidence  of  your  health,  spirits, 
and  strength,  and  I  am  still  more  persuaded  that  some  minds 
will  rise  superior  to  the  infirmities  which  Nature  has  attached  to 
the  advanced  period  of  human  hfe. 

My  own  inclinations  would  immediately  have  carried  me  to 
the  Belvidere  from  Dover  or  London ;  but  reason  compelled  me 
to  acknowledge  that,  as  Lord  Sheffield's  unexpected  misfortune 
had  prompted  me  to  undertake  a  Journey  more  hazardous  in 
appearance  than  in  reality,  my  first  attention  was  due  to  him, 
and  that  it  was  incumbent  on  me  to  try  how  far  the  society  of 
a  friend  might  contribute  to  his  relief  and  amusement.  In  the 
three  months  which  we  have  now  spent  together  I  have  had  the 
satisfaction  of  finding  that  my  labours  have  not  been  unsuccessful. 
Our  domestic  society,  which  is  much  improved  by  the  presence  of 
Mrs.  Holroyd,  some  chosen  company  in  the  house,  the  seasonable 
diversion  of  Camps  and  visits,  and  above  all,  the  very  important 
business  of  the  Exchequer  bills  which  frequently  calls  him  to 
Mercer's  hall,  have  seconded  my  endeavours,  and  I  shall  leave 
him  in  a  placid  and  even  chearful  temper  of  mind.  As  I  now 
find  myself  of  less  use,  I  had  fixed  my  departure  about  the  15th 
or  20th  instant,  but  he  absolutely  insists  on  keeping  me  here 
till  the  end  of  the  month  ;  and  as  we  expect  a  very  agreable 
friend,  Mr.  Douglas,  who  married  Lady  Catherine  North,  I  am 
almost  inclined  to  yield  to  his  importunity.  At  all  events,  as  I 
shall  only  pass  three  or  four  days  in  town,  you  may  depend  on 
seeing  me  at  Bath  in  the  first  week  of  October.  I  remember 
that  your  elegant  little  mansion  will  not  admit  of  an  additional 
inhabitant,  though  I  may  be  perfectly  accommodated  as  heretofore 
either  in  your  court  or  over  the  way.  But  I  am  likewise  ignorant 
whether  our  dining  together,  at  my  Lausanne  hours  of  two  or 
three  o'Clock,  may  not  be  too  great  an  exertion  for  your  return- 
ing strength.  Should  you  content  yourself  with  receiving  my 
morning  and  afternoon  visits  (and  perhaps  such  an  arrangement 
would  be  the  most  prudent),  I  might  be  tempted  to  prefer  the 
Hotel,  from  whence  a  chair  would  convey  me  in  a  few  minutes  to 
the  Belvidere.  I  shall  expect  on  that  subject  a  line  from  yourself 
or  our  old  friend  Mrs.  Gould.  Lord  S.,  who  is  gone  to  town  this 
morning,  and  the  young  Ladies  beg  to  be  kindly  remembered  to 


388  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

you.  Mrs.  H.  will  soon  answer  your  obliging  letter.  I  have  a 
thousand  things  to  say,  but  they  will  be  best  deferred  for  our 
interview,  which  I  impatiently  desire. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 


630 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

October  2nd,  1793. 

*The  Cork  Street  hotel  has  answered  its  recommendation  ;  it 
is  clean,  convenient,  and  quiet,*  but  the  expence  for  a  Winter 
residence,  five  guineas  per  week  for  two  small  rooms  and  closet, 
would  much  surpass  that  of  a  similar  lodging  without  affording 
any  superior  advantages.  '"My  first  evening  was  passed  at  home 
in  a  very  agreeable  tete-a-tete  with  my  friend  Elmsley.  Yesterday 
I  dined  at  Craufurd's  with  an  excellent  set,  in  which  were  Pelham 
and  Lord  Egremont.  I  dine  to-day  with  my  Portuguese  woman  ^ 
at  Grenier's,  most  probably  with  the  well-washed  feet  of  Lady 
W[eb8ter],  whom  I  met  last  night  at  Devonshire-house ;  a  constant, 
though  late,  resort  of  society.  The  Duchess  is  as  good,  and  Lady 
Elizabeth  as  seducing,  as  ever.  No  news  whatsoever.  You  wil? 
see  in  the  papers  Lord  Hervey's  Memorial.^  I  love  vigour,  but 
it  is  surely  a  strong  measure  to  tell  a  gentleman  you  have  resolved 
to  pass  the  winter  in  his  house.  London  is  not  disagreeable  ; 
yet  I  shall  probably  leave  it  Saturday.  If  any  thing  should  occur, 
I  will  write.*  Douglas  with  the  Doctor,  &c.,  called  on  me  this 
morning.  *Adieu  ;  I  embrace  dear  little  Aunt  and  la  Marmaille. 
Ever  yours.* 

'  Madame  de  Sylva. 

^  John  Augustus,  Lord  Hcrvey,  a  captain  in  tbe  Royal  Navy,  second  son 
of  the  Bishop  of  Derry,  and  brother  to  Lady  Elisabeth  Foster,  was  ambassador 
at  Florence  from  1787  to  1794.  In  1793  he  insisted  in  a  violent  note  on  the 
dismissal  of  the  French  Minister,  La  Flotte,  from  the  court  of  the  Grand 
Duke  of  Tuscany.  "It  was  generally  supposed,"  writes  Lord  Holland, 
Memoirs  of  the  Whig  Party,  p.  56),  "in  the  maldicente  city  of  Florence,  that 
resentment  at  the  French  Minister  for  liaving  supplanted  him  in  the  good 
graces  of  a  lady  quickened  his  hatred  of  tlie  French  Republick,  or  at  least 
gave  it  the  turn  of  insisting  on  the  dismissal  of  his  rival."  Lord  Hcrvej',  in 
consequence  of  the  affair,  was  recalled  from  Florence  in  1794. 


5793.]  .    FROM  LONDON  TO  BATH.  389 

P.S. — I  have  not  had  your  letter,  and  if  you  could  impart 
particulars,  they  should  be  entrusted  only  to  Vulcan. 


631. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Cork  Street  Hotel,  Friday,  October  4tb,  17'Jo. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  propose  to  reach  Bath  next  Monday  for  a  very  late 
dinner  at  York-house,  where  my  old  friend  Will  Budd  will  be 
so  good  as  to  secura  me  a  bed-chamber  and  dining-room  on  the 
same  floor  with  accommodations  for  two  servants.  I  am  very 
impatient  to  embrace  you,  but  must  postpone  that  pleasure  till 
the  usual  time  of  your  rising  next  day  :  for  not  the  minutest 
circumstance  of  your  life  must  be  disarranged  on  my  account,  as 
I  mean  to  leave  you  in  every  point  of  health  and  spirits  at  least 
as  well  as  I  find  you. 

I  am 
Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

632. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

York-house,  Batb,  October  9tb,  1793. 
*Sunday  afternoon  I  left  London,  and  lay  at  Reading,  and 
Monday  in  very  good  time  I  reached  this  place  after  a  very 
pleasant  airing ;  and  am  always  so  much  delighted,  and  improved, 
with  this  union  of  ease  and  motion,  that,  were  not  the  expence 
enormous,  I  would  travel  every  year  some  hundred  miles,  more 
especially  in  England.  I  passed  the  day  with  Mrs.  G.  yesterday. 
In  mind  and  conversation  she  is  just  the  same  as  twenty  years 
ago.  She  has  spirits,  appetite,  legs,  and  eyes,  and  talks  of  living 
till  ninety.  I  can  say  from  my  heart,  Amen.  We  dine  at  two, 
and  remain  together  till  nine ;  but,  although  we  have  much  to 
say,  I  am  not  sorry  that  she  talks  of  introducing  a  third  or  fourth 
actor.  Lord  Spenser  expects  me  about  the  20th  ;  but  if  I  can 
do  it  without  offence,  I  shall  steal  away  two  or  three  days  sooner, 
and  you  shall  have  advice  of  my  motions. 


390  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

The  troubles  of  BristoP  have  been  serious  and  bloody.    I 

know  not  who  was  in  fault ;  but  I  do  not  like  appeasing  the 

mob  bv  the  extinction  of  the  toll,  and  the  removal  of  the  Hereford 

militia,  who  had  done  their  duty.    xVdieu.    The  Girls  must  dance 

at  Tunbridge.     What  would  dear  little  Aunt  say  if  I  was  to 

answer  her  letter  ?     Drop  in  my  ear  something  of  your  secret 

conversations. 

Ever  yours,  &c., 

E.G. 

I  still  follow  the  old  style,  though  the  Convention  has  abolished 

the  Christian  Era,  with  months,  weeks,  days,  &c.* 

633. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

York-house,  Bath,  October  13th,  1793. 
*I  am  as  ignorant  of  Bath  in  general  as  if  I  were  still  at 
Sheffield.  My  impatience  to  get  away  makes  me  think  it  better 
to  devote  my  whole  time  to  Mrs.  G. ;  and  dear  little  aunt,  whom 
I  tenderly  salute,  will  excuse  me  to  her  two  friends,  Mrs.  Hartley 
and  Preston,  if  I  make  little  or  no  use  of  her  kind  introduction. 
A  tete-a-tete  of  eight  or  nine  hours  every  day  is  rather  difficult  to 
support ;  yet  I  do  assure  you,  that  our  conversation  flows  with 
more  ease  and  spirit  when  we  are  alone,  than  when  any  auxiliaries 
are  summoned  to  our  aid.  She  is  indeed  a  wonderful  woman,  and 
I  think  all  her  faculties  of  the  mind  stronger  and  more  active 
than  I  have  ever  known  them.  1  have  settled,  that  ten  full  days 
may  be  sufficient  for  all  the  purposes  of  our  interview.  I  should 
therefore  depart  next  Friday,  the  18th  instant,  and  am  indeed 
expected  at  Althorp  on  the  20th ;  but  I  may  possibly  reckon 
without  my  host,  as  I  have  not  yet  apprized  Mrs.  G.  of  the  term 
of  my  visit ;  and  will  certainly  not  quarrel  with  her  for  a  short 
delay.  Adieu.  I  must  have  some  political  speculations.  The 
Campaign,  at  least  on  our  side,  seems  to  be  at  an  end.  Ever 
yours.* 

*  New  toll-gates  had  been  placed  on  the  bridge  at  Bristol;  but  they 
were  burnt  by  a  mob  wliich,  from  September  30  to  October  3,  attacked  the 
toll-houses,  and  broke  the  -windows  of  the  Guildhall  and  Council-house. 
The  Herefordshire  Militia  were  twice  called  out  and  ordered  to  fire  on  the 
mob;  eleven  rioters  were  killed  and  forty-five  wounded.  The  attempt  to 
raise  a  toll  was  abandoned. 


1793.]  MRS.  GIBBON'S  MENTAL  YOUTH.  391 

634. 
To  Ms  Stepmother. 
Star  Inn,  Oxford,  Friday  evening,  Oct.  18,  1793. 

Dear  Madam, 

If  true  friendship  were  not  always  a  coward,  it  would 
be  almost  useless  to  say  that  after  a  very  pleasant  airing  I  am 
arrived  here  without  accident  or  fatigue.  By  the  first  post  you 
shall  hear  of  me  from  Althorp. 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

635. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

Althorp,  Oct.  20tb,  1793, 

Deae  Madam, 

The  remainder  of  my  Journey  has  been  as  easy  and 
prosperous  as  the  beginning,  and  I  am  now  most  agreably  settled 
for  a  fortnight  at  this  place.  The  society  of  a  very  pleasing  and 
friendly  family  does  not  however  make  me  forget  the  Belvidere, 
and  I  wish  that  I  could  have  given  myself  a  larger  scope  for  my 
visit  to  Bath.  Yet  I  have  the  satisfaction  of  thinking,  that  of  the 
narrow  span  I  did  not  lose  any  part,  and  as  you  were  my  sole 
object,  I  never  deviated  into  any  other  company  or  amusement. 
As  we  were  almost  always  alone,  we  enjoyed  perhaps  as  much  of 
each  other's  society  in  ten  days,  as  we  should  have  had  with  the 
common  dissipations  of  the  "World  in  ten  weeks.  I  had  the  satis- 
faction of  finding  and  leaving  you  in  a  state  of  health,  spirits, 
and  even  mental  youth,  which  you  have  the  fairest  prospect  of 
preserving  to  a  very  late  period  of  life,  and  what  more  can  either 
yourself  or  your  friends  desire  ?  My  best  compliments  to  Mrs. 
Gould. 

I  am,  Dear  Madam, 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 


392  GIBBON'S  CORRESrONDENCE.  [1793. 

636. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

Althorpe  library,  Tuesday,  four  o'clock,  Nov.,  '93, 

*We  have  so  completely  exhausted  this  morning  among  the 
first  editions  of  Cicero,  that  I  can  only  mention  my  departure 
hence  to-morrow,  the  sixth  instant.  I  lye  quietly  at  Woburn, 
and  reach  London  in  good  time  Thursday.  By  the  following 
post  I  write  somewhat  more  largely.  My  stay  in  London  will 
depend,  partly  on  my  amusement,  and  your  being  fixed  at 
Sheffield-place ;  unless  you  think  I  can  be  comfortably  arranged 
for  a  week  or  two  with  you  at  Brighton.*  An  insignificant 
Minister  is  often  soothed  by  sops  and  jobbs.  *The  military 
remarks  seem  good  ;  but  now  to  what  purpose  !  Adieu.  I 
embrace  and  much  rejoyce  in  Louisa's  improvement.  Lord 
Ossory  was  from  home  at  Farning  Woods.* 

637. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

LondoQ,  Friday,  Nov.  8th,  four  o'clock. 
*Walpole  has  just  delivered  yours,  and  I  hasten  the  direction, 
that  you  may  not  be  at  a  loss.     I  will  write  to-morrow,  but  I  am 
now  fatigued,  and  rather  unwell.    Adieu.    I  have  not  seen  a  soul 
except  Elmsley.* 

G38. 

To  Lord  Slieffield. 

St.  James's  Street,  Nov.  9th,  1793. 

*As  I  dropt  yesterday  the  word  umcell,  I  flatter  myself  that  the 
family  would  have  been  a  little  alarmed  by  my  silence  to-day. 
I  am  still  awkward,  though  without  any  suspicions  of  gout,  and 
have  some  idea  of  having  recourse  to  medical  advice.  Yet  I  creep 
out  to-day  in  a  chair,  to  dine  with  Lord  Lucan.  But  as  it  will  be 
literally  my  first  going  down  stairs,  and  as  scarcely  any  one  is 
apprized  of  my  arrival,  I  know  nothing,  I  have  heard  nothing, 


J793.]  IS  THE  HANDS  OF  THE   SURGEONS.  393 

•I  have  nothing  to  say.  My  present  lodging,^  a  house  of  Elmsley's, 
is  chearfnl,  convenient,  somewhat  dear,  but  not  so  much  as  a 
Hotel :  a  species  of  habitation  for  which  I  have  not  conceived  any 
great  affection.  Had  you  been  stationary  at  Sheffield,  you  would 
have  seen  me  before  the  twentieth  ;  for  I  am  tired  of  rambling,  and 
pant  for  my  home,  that  is  to  say,  for  your  house.  But  whether  I 
shall  have  courage  to  brave  *?.  of  W.*  and  a  bleak  down,  time 
only  can  discover.  Adieu.  I  wish  you  back  to  S.-pl.  The  health 
of  dear  Louisa  is  doubtless  the  first  object ;  but  I  did  not  expect 
Brighton  after  Tun  bridge.  Whenever  dear  little  aunt  is  separate 
from  you,  I  shall  certainly  write  to  her  ;  but  at  present  how  is  it 
possible  ?  * 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

639. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 
[Most  private.] 

St.  James's  Street,  Nov.  lltli,  1793. 

*I  must  at  length  withdraw  the  veil  before  my  state  of  health, 
though  the  naked  truth  may  alarm  you  more  than  a  fit  of  the 
gout.  Have  you  never  observed,  through  my  inexpresslMes,  a 
large  prominency  circa  genitalia,  which,  as  it  was  not  at  all 
painful,  and  very  little  troublesome,  I  had  strangely  neglected  for 
many  years  ?  ^  But  since  my  departure  from  Sheffield-place  it  has 
increased,  most  stupendously,  is  increasing,  and  ought  to  be 
diminished.  Yesterday  I  sent  for  Farquhar,^  who  is  allowed  to 
be  a  very  skilful  surgeon.  After  viewing  and  palping,  he  very 
seriously  desired  to  call  in  assistance,  and  has  examined  it  again 
to-day  with  Mr.  Cline,^  a  surgeon,  as  he  says,  of  the  first  eminence. 
They  both  pronounce  it  a  hydrocele  (a  collection  of  water),  which 

>  76,  St.  James's  Street. 

*  Gibbon  had,  in  1761,  consul leil  Mr.  (afterwanls  Sir  Ctosar)  Hawkins, 
the  surgeon,  who  wished  to  see  him  again.  But  he  never  returned,  or 
consulted  any  other  medical  man  till  November,  1793. 

'  Sir  Walter  Farquhar,  Bart.  (cr.  1796),  was  originally  an  army  "doctor. 
He  died  in  1819. 

•*  Henry  Cline  (1750-1827)  was  a  piijiil  of  Hunter,  and  at  this  time 
surgeon  of  St.  Thomas's  Hospital. 


394  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

must  be  let  out  by  the  operation  of  tapping  ;  but  from  its  magni- 
tude and  long  neglect,  they  think  it  a  most  extraordinary  case, 
and  wish  to  have  another  surgeon,  Dr.  Bayley,  present.  If  the 
business  should  go  off  smoothly,  I  shall  be  delivered  from  my 
burthen,  (it  is  almost  as  big  as  a  small  child),  and  walk  about  in 
four  or  five  days  with  a  truss.  But  the  medical  gentlemen,  who 
never  speak  quite  plain,  insinuate  to  me  the  possihiUty  of  an 
inflammation,  of  fever,  etc.  I  am  not  appalled  at  the  thoughts 
of  the  operation,  which  is  fixed  for  Wednesday  next,  twelve 
o'clock ;  but  it  has  occurred  to  me  that  you  might  wish  to  be 
present,  before  and  afterwards,  till  the  crisis  was  past ;  and  to 
give  you  that  opportunity,  I  shall  solicit  a  delay  till  Thursday,  or 
even  Friday.  In  the  mean  while,  I  crawl  about  with  some  labour, 
and  much  indecency,  to  Devonshire-house,  where  I  left  all  the  fine 
ladies  making  flannel  waistcoats ;  ^  Lady  Lucan's,  &c.  Adieu. 
Varnish  the  business  for  the  ladies ;  yet  I  am  afraid  it  will  be 
public  ; — the  advantage  of  being  notorious.    Ever  yours.* 


640. 

To  his  Stepmother. 

St.  James's  Street,  No.  76,  Nov.  21,  '93. 

My  Dear  Madam, 

My  friend  Lord  S.  having  left  me  to  return  into  Sussex, 
I  thought  you  would  not  be  sorry  to  receive  a  short  assurance  of 
my  health  under  my  own  hand.  You  may  justly  reproach  me 
with  the  long  neglect  of  a  growing  complaint,  but  I  am  now  in 
the  hands  of  the  most  skillful  physicians  and  sm-geons,  who  have 
given  me  immediate  relief,  and  promise  me  a  safe  and  radical  cure, 
"With  their  approbation  I  live  as  usual,  and  dine  abroad  every 
day,  and  in  a  fortnight,  when  my  friends  return  from  Brighton, 
I  shall  meet  them  at  S.  P.  and  remain  there  till  after  Christmas. 

I  am 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

^  For  the  soldiers  serving  in  Flanders  under  the  Duke  of  York. 


1793.]  A  SECOND   OPERATION   NEEDED.  395 

641. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 

St.  James's,  Nov.  25,  '93. 

*Though  Farquahar  has  promised  to  write  you  a  line,  I  conceive 
you  may  not  be  sorry  to  hear  directly  from  me.  The  operation 
of  yesterday  was  much  longer,  more  searching  and  more  painful 
than  the  former,  but  it  has  eased  and  lightened  me  to  a  much 
greater  degree :  no  inflammation,  no  f  eaver,  a  delicious  night, 
leave  to  go  abroad  to-morrow  and  to  go  out  of  town  when  I  please 
en  attendant  the  future  measures  of  a  radical  cure.  If  you  hold 
your  intention  of  returning  next  Saturday  to  S.  P.,  I  shall  probably 
join  you  about  the  Thursday  following,  after  lying  two  nights  at 
Beckenham.^  The  Devons  are  going  to  Bath,  and  the  hospitable 
Craufurd  follows  them.  Yet  I  do  not  want  dinners.  I  passed  a 
delightful  day  with  Burke  ;  an  odd  one  with  Monsignor  Erskine, 
the  Pope's  Nuncio. — Of  public  news,  you  and  the  papers  know 
much  more  than  I  do.  We  seem  to  have  strong  sea  and  land 
hopes ;  nor  do  I  dislike  the  Royalists  having  beaten  the  SanS' 
Culottes  and  taken  Dol.  How  many  minutes  will  it  take  to 
guillotine  the  seventy-three  new  members  of  the  Convention  who 
are  now  arrested  ?    Adieu.     I  embrace  the  Ladies."' 

Ever  yours, 

E.G. 

642. 

Lord  Sheffield  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

Brighton,  Tuesday,  Nov.  26,  1793. 

We  are  very  much  content  with  the  account  of  you,  especially 
Mr.  Farquar's.  His  is  really  excellent.  As  this  air  does  not 
particularly  suit  Louisa,  &  as  I  brought  a  bowel  complaint  with 
me  from  London  and  cannot  bathe,  the  Ladies  will  settle  at 
Sheffield  Place  to-morrow  &  I  shall  settle  there  on  Thursday. 
We  shall  expect  you  on  the  Thursday  following,  at  furthest, 
perhaps  sooner.  I  suppose  you  write  to  Mrs.  Gibbon,  but  I  do 
not  know  why  I  suppose  it.    There  is  little  or  no  Society  here. 

'  At  Lord  Auckland's,  at  Eden  Farm. 


396  GIBBON'S  COREESPONDENCE. 


[1973. 


I  have  had  one  pleasanb  dinner  with  Gerrard  Hamilton,  who  is 
tolerably  well,  and  am  to  dine.with  him  to-morrow. 

I  have  seen  an  officer  just  come  from  Portsmouth,  who  says 
that  the  Fleet,  with  Sir  Charles  Grey,^  dropped  down  to  St.  Helens 
yesterday,  &  that  Lord  Moira "  has  ordered  all  his  officers  to  be 
on  board  to-morrow.  I  understand  that  Lord  Moira  will  have 
from  ten  to  fifteen  thousand  troops.  They  are  to  rendezvous  at 
Jersey,  &  afterwards,  if  circumstances  are  favourable,  their  desti- 
nation is  somewhere  about  Cancale.  There  are  good  accounts  of 
the  encreasing  scarcity  of  provisions  among  the  Infidels  &  mur- 
derers. The  garrison  at  Fort  Louis  ^  have  judiciously  preferred 
the  surrendering  prisoners  of  "War  to  the  deadly  privilege  of  going 
home. 

A  letter  from  Lord  Auckland  talks  of  going  for  three  or  four 
days  to  Lambeth  soon.  I  have  mentioned  in  a  letter  that  you 
proposed  to  pass  two  nights  with  him.  I  shall  be  sorry  if  you 
should  not  see  him. 

Ever  yours, 

Sheffield. 

Aunt  shall  be  much  obliged  if  Mr.  G.  can  obtain  for  her 
Louisa  Les  -pensees  de  Paschal  *  in  one  Vol.  to  bring  down  with 
him. 

'  Sir  Charles  Grey,  afterwards  first  Earl  Grey  (1729-1807),  sailed 
November  23,  in  joint  command  with  Jervis,  afterwards  Earl  St.  Vincent, 
on  an  expedition  against  the  French  West  Indian  Islands. 

*  Francis  Rawdon  Hastings,  second  Earl  of  Moira  and  first  Marquis 
of  Hastings  (175-1-1826),  had  served  with  distinction  in  the  American  War. 
The  expedition  here  alluded  to  was  that  which  sailed  in  December,  1793,  to 
aid  the  French  royalists  in  Brittany.  The  expedition  returned  without 
effecting  anything. 

'  Fort  liouis,  part  of  the  position  held  by  the  French  army  in  Alsace 
■was  besieged  by  the  Austrians,  November  10,  1792.  It  surrendered  on 
November  14,  and  the  four  thousand  French  troops  who  formed  its  garrison 
became  prisoners  of  war. 

*  Gibbon  was  a  diligent  student  of  Pascal,  and  his  irony  was  cultivated 
by  constant  reading  of  his  works.  One  curious  parallel  may  be  noted  in 
tlieir  writings.  "Abu  IJafc,"  writes  Gibbon  (^Decline  and  Fall,  ed.  18(12, 
vol.  vii.  p.  252),  "was  an  eye-witness,  but  who  will  be  witness  for  Abu 
Rafe  ?  "  Similarly  Pascal,  in  the  Lcttres  Provinciales  :  neuuieme  httre,  p.  IS-l 
(ed.  Firmin  Didot,  1853),  writes,  " '  Mais,  mon  pere,  qui  nous  a  assure  que 
la  Vierge  en  repond?'  '  Le  pere  Barry,'  dit-il,  'en  repond  pour  elle.* 
*  Mais,  mon  pere,  qui  re'pondra  pour  le  pore  Barry  ? ' " 


1793.]  DINNER   WITH   THE   CHANCELLOR.  39T 

643. 
To  Lord  Sheffield. 

St,  James's  Street,  Nov.  30,  '93. 

*It  will  not  be  in  my  power  to  reach  S.  P.  quite  so  soon  as 
I  wished  and  expected.  Lord  Auckland  informs  me  that  he  shalt 
be  at  Lambeth  ^  next  week  Tuesday,  "Wednesday,  and  Thursday  :  I 
have  therefore  agreed  to  dine  at  Beckenham  on  Friday.  Saturday- 
will  be  spent  there,  and,  unless  some  extraordinary  temptation 
should  detain  me  another  day,  you  will  see  me  by  four  o'clock 
Sunday  the  ninth  of  December.  My  conversation  with  the  Am- 
bassador in  what  relates  to  you  shall  be  ]iroper :  but  a  Swiss 
Philosopher  is  not  a  match  for  his  Excellency.  I  dine  to-morrow 
with  the  Chancellor^  at  Hampstead,  and  what  I  do  not  like  at  this 
time  of  the  year,  without  a  proposal  to  stay  all  night.  Yet  I 
would  not  refuse,  more  especially  as  I  had  denied  him  on  a  former 
day. — My  health  is  good  but  I  shall  have  a  final  interview  with 
Farquhar  before  I  leave  town. — "We  are  still  in  darkness  about 
Lord  Howe '  and  the  French  ships  :  but  hope  seems  to  prepon- 
derate.— Adieu,  nothing  that  relates  to  Louisa  can  be  forgot,* 

Ever  Yours, 

KG. 

044, 

To  Lord  Sheffield, 

St,  James's  Street,  Dec.  6th,  1793. 

16  du  mois  Friraaire. 

The  man  tempted  me  and  I  did  eat — aud  that  man  is  no  lesa 
than  the  Chancellor,  whose  frigid  reserve  has  thawed  into  sudden 
kindness  and  civility.     I  dine  and  lye  to-day,  as  I  intended,  at 

'  Dr.  John  Moore  (1730-1805),  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  (1783-1805)^ 
was,  by  his  marriage  to  Catherine  Eden,  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Eden,*^ 
connected  with  Lord  Auckland. 

^  Lord  Loughborough, 

^  Richard,  Earl  Howe  (1726-1799),  had  sailed  (November  9)  in  search- 
of  the  French;  but  he  was  compelled  to  return  to  Spithead  (November  29) 
without  bringing  them  to  action.  "  We  continue  in  the  same  eternal  state 
of  anxious  exi>ectation  of  news  from  Lord  Howe.  Nothing  is  yet  heard  " 
(Lord  Auckland  to  Lord  H.  Spencer,  December  3,  1793:  Correspondeiice, 
iii.  151),    Gibbon  did  not  live  to  hear  of  the  victory  of  June  1,  1794. 


398  GIBBON'S  CORRESPONDENCE.  [1793. 

Beckenham  :  bub  he  recalls  me  (the  third  time  this  week)  by 
a  dinner  to-moiTow  (Saturday)  with  Burke  and  Windham,  which 
I  do  not  possess  sufficient  fortitude  to  resist.  Sunday  he  dis- 
misses me  again  to  the  aforesaid  Beckenham,  but  insists  on  finding 
me  there  Monday,  which  he  will  probably  do  supposing  there 
should  be  room  and  wellcome  at  the  Ambassador's.^  I  shall  not 
therefore  arrive  at  Sheffield  till  Tuesday  the  10th  instant,  and 
though  you  may  perceive  that  I  do  not  want  society  or  amuse- 
ment, I  sincerely  repine  at  the  delay.  You  will  likewise  derive 
some  comfort  from  hearing  of  the  spirit  and  activity  of  my 
motions.  Farquhar  is  satisfied,  allows  me  to  go,  and  does  not 
think  I  shall  be  obliged  to  precipitate  my  return.  Shall  we  never 
have  anything  more  than  hopes  and  rumours  from  Lord  Howe  ? 
Pray  embrace  the  Ladies  for  me,  and  assure  Mr.  Greg.  Way  of 
my  concern  that  our  different  arrangements  have  not  permitted 
us  to  meet  at  Sheffield. 

Ever  yours, 

E.  G. 

645. 
To  his  Stepmother. 

Sheffield-place,  Dec.  12, 1793. 

My  Dear  Madam, 

I  should  have  continued  to  write  from  London,  if  the 
state  of  my  health,  or  rather  my  particular  complaint,  on  the 
subject  of  which  it  is  not  easy  to  be  explicit,  had  afforded  any 
events.  But  you  may  rest  assured  that  I  am  now  in  the  best 
hands,  and  that  my  occasional  relief  will  be  concluded  in  due  time 
by  a  safe  and  radical  cure.  I  have  not  been  advised  to  make  any 
change  in  my  way  of  life,  and  after  enjoying  as  usual  the  best 
Society  in  London,  my  physician  has  allowed  me  to  visit  Sheffield- 
place.  I  arrived  here  yesterday,  and  shall  remain  in  this  quiet 
retirement  till  the  middle  of  January.  Lord  Sheffield  is  nervous 
and  rather  low-spirited,  complains  of  his  eyes  and  bowels,  and 
appears  to  me  more  affected  with  his  loss  than  he  was  some 

'  Gibbon  met  Pitt  at  Eden  Farm.  "  He  was  much  pleased,"  writes  Lord 
Sheffield,  December  17,  1793,  of  this  stay  at  Beckenham,  "  with  his  visit 
there,  and  his  occurrence  with  the  minister,  in  a  family  way,  was  a  great 
satisfaction  to  him"  (^Aucldand  Correspondence,  iii.  158). 


1794.]  RETURN  TO   LONDON",  399 

months  ago.  The  three  Ladies  pass  the  winter  in  the  Countiy, 
but  he  will  frequently  visit  town  and  the  house  of  Commons. 
They  all  wish  to  be  remembered  to  you,  and  Mrs.  H.  has  enclosed 
a  letter  for  her  maid.  Adieu,  my  Dear  Madam,  believe  me  with 
the  warmest  feelings  of  aflfection  and  gratitude. 

Ever  Yours, 

E.  Gibbon. 

646. 
Mrs.  Gibbon  to  Edward  Gibbon. 

A  thousand  thanks  to  you,  my  Dear  Sir,  for  your  very  kind 
letter  ;  none  ever  gave  me  so  much  joy.  I  truly  congratulate  you 
on  your  recovery,  and  sincerely  hope  it  will  improve  every  day  to 
good  &  lasting  health,  yet  I  fear  you  wiU  make  too  free  with 
the  liberty  you  have  obtain'd,  &  therefore  beg  you  to  remember 
it  is  the  middle  of  winter ;  I  am  too  happy  at  present  to  reproach 
you,  &  too  much  rejoiced  to  express  myself  as  I  wish.  I  love 
L**.  Sheffield  dearly,  indeed  I  cannot  say  how  much,  &  shall  be 
glad  to  hear  you  are  at  S.  P. 

I  cannot  help  thinking  you  have  had  some  share  in  certain 
appearances  at  Court.  Has  L^.  S.  refused  the  Irish  vice  royalty  ? 
Next  to  you,  I  think  of  my  Country.  Ah,  what  a  falling  off  from 
Eoman  Fortitude.  I  shall  add  no  more,  but  that  I  hardly  know 
myself  how  much  I  am  interested  in  your  health  &  happiness  ; 
may  both  attend  you,  &  alway  think  of  me  as 

Your  most  affectionate 

D.  Gibbon. 

647. 

To  Lord  Sheffield. 
St.  James's  Street,  four  o'clock,  Tuesday,  Jan.  7,  1794.' 

'"'This  date  says  every  thing.  I  was  almost  killed  between. 
Sheffield-place  and  East  Grinsted,  by  hard,  frozen,  long,  and  cross 

^  "  The  Gibbon  is  better,  but  I  am  by  no  means  without  inquietude  on 
his  account.  It  is  thought  necessary  that  he  should  go  to  London  on 
Tuesday ;  probably  I  shall  follow  him  shortly  for  two  days,  for  I  shall  be 
impatient  to  see  how  he  goes  on"  (Lord  Sheffield  to  Lord  Auckland, 
January  5,  1794 :  Aucldand  Correspondence,  iii.  168). 


400;  GIBBON'S  CORRESPOXDEXCE.  [1794. 

ruts,  that  would  disgrace  the  approach  of  an  Indian  wigwam. 
The  rest  was  something  less  painful ;  and  I  reached  this  place 
half  dead,  but  not  seriously  feverish,  or  ill.  I  found  a  dinner 
invitation  from  Lord  Lucan ;  but  what  are  dinners  to  me  ?  I 
wish  they  did  not  know  of  my  departure.  I  catch  the  flying  post. 
What  an  effort !    Adieu,  till  Thursday  or  Friday.* 


Gibbon  died  at  76,  St.  James's  Street,  on  January  IG,  1794. 
He  was  buried  in  Lord  Sheffield's  family  burial-place  in  Fletching, 
Sussex. 

The  following  account  of  his  last  moments  is  given  by  Lord 
Sheffield  in  his  edition  of  Gibbon's  Miscellaneous  Works  (1814), 
vol.  i.  pp.  422-425  : — 

"  After  I  left  him  on  Tuesday  afternoon,  the  fourteenth,  he 
saw  some  company,  Lady  Lucan  and  Lady  Spencer,  and  thought 
himself  well  enough  at  night  to  omit  the  opium  draught,  which 
he  had  been  used  to  take  for  some  time.  He  slept  very  indif- 
ferently ;  before  nine  the  next  morning  he  rose,  but  could  not 
eat  his  breakfast.  However,  he  appeared  tolerably  well,  yet 
complained  at  times  of  a  pain  in  his  stomach.  At  one  o'clock 
he  received  a  visit  of  an  hour  from  Madame  de  Sylva,  and  at 
three,  his  friend,  Mr.  Craufurd,  of  Auchinames,  (for  whom  he  had 
a  particular  regard,)  called,  and  stayed  with  him  till  past  five 
o'clock.  They  talked,  as  usual,  on  various  subjects  ;  and  twenty 
hours  before  his  death,  Mr.  Gibbon  happened  to  fall  into  a  con- 
versation, not  uncommon  with  him,  on  the  probable  duration  of 
his  life.  He  said,  that  he  thought  himself  a  good  life  for  ten, 
twelve,  or  perhaps  twenty  years.  About  six,  he  ate  the  wing  of 
a  chicken,  and  drank  three  glasses  of  Madeira.  After  dinner  he 
became  very  uneasy  and  impatient ;  complained  a  good  deal,  and 
appeared  so  weak,  that  his  servant  was  alarmed.  Mr.  Gibbon 
had  sent  to  his  friend  and  relation,  Mr.  Robert  Darell,  whose 
house  was  not  far  distant,  desiring  to  see  him,  and  adding,  that 
he  had  something  particular  to  say.  But,  unfortunately,  this 
desired  interview  never  took  place. 

"  During  the  evening  he  complained  much  of  his  stomach,  and 
of  a  disposition  to  vomit.  Soon  after  nine,  he  took  his  opium 
draught,  and  went  to  bed.  About  ten,  he  complained  of  much 
pain,  and  desired  that  warm  napkins  might  be  applied  to  bis 


1701.]  LAST  MOMENTS   OF   GIBBON.  401 

stomach.  He  almost  incessantly  expressed  a  sense  of  pain  till 
about  four  o'clock  in  the  morning,  when  he  said  he  fonnd  his 
stomach  much  easier.  About  seven,  the  servant  asked,  whether 
he  should  send  for  Mr.  Farquhar  ?  he  answered,  no  ;  that  he  was 
as  well  as  he  had  been  the  day  before.  At  about  half  past  eight, 
he  got  out  of  bed,  and  said  he  was  ' pluf^  adroit'  than  he  had 
been  for  three  months  past,  and  got  into  bed  again,  without 
assistance,  better  than  usual.  About  nine,  he  said  that  he  would 
rise.  The  servant,  however,  persuaded  him  to  remain  in  bed  till 
Mr.  Farquhar,  who  was  expected  at  eleven,  should  come.  Till 
about  that  hour  he  spoke  with  great  facility.  Mr.  Farquhar  came 
at  the  time  appointed,  and  he  was  then  visibly  dying.  When 
the  valet  de  clmmlre  returned,  after  attending  Mr.  Farquhar  out 
of  the  room,  Mr.  Gibbon  said,  ^  Pourquoi  est-ce  que  vous  me 
quittezf^  This  was  about  half  past  eleven.  At  twelve,  he  drank 
some  brandy  and  water  from  a  tea-pot,  and  desired  his  favourite 
servant  to  stay  with  hinL  These  were  the  last  words  he  pro- 
nounced articulately.  To  the  last  he  presen-ed  his  senses  ;  and 
when  he  could  no  longer  speak,  his  servant  having  asked  a 
question,  he  made  a  sign,  to  shew  that  he  understood  him.  He 
was  quite  tranquil,  and  did  not  stir ;  his  eyes  half-shut.  About 
a  quarter  before  one,  he  ceased  to  breathe. 

"The  valet  de  chambre  observed,  that  Mr.  Gibbon  did  not,  at 
any  time,  shew  the  least  sign  of  alarm  or  apprehension  of  death  ; 
and  it  does  not  appear  that  he  ever  thought  himself  in  danger, 
unless  his  desire  to  speak  to  Mr.  Darell  may  be  considered  in  that 
light." 


VOL.  II. 


2  1> 


INDEX 


[Names,  etc.,  marked  with  an  asterisk  occur  only  in  the  notes ;  where  names 
occur  in  both  text  and  note  (on  different  pages),  the  numerical  note-references 
are  printed  in  italics.] 


Abercromby,  General,  ii.  276,  285 
Abingdon,  Earl  of,  i.  90 
Abingdon,  Lady,  i.  90 
Abington,  Mrs.  (Fanny  Barton),  ii.  4 
Abolition  of  Slave  Trade,  the,  ii.  239, 

294 
Acland,  Colonel  John  Dyke,  i.  325 
*Acland,  Sir  Thomas,  i.  273 
Acton,  Dr.,  his  kindness  to  Gibbon, 

i.  36,  37;  his  misfortunes,  i.  67 
Acton,  Mrs.,  Gibbon's  opinion  of,  i. 

38 

*  Acton,  Lord,  i.  37 
*Acton,  Sir  John  F.  E.,  i.  37 
Adam,  Pere,  i.  92 

Addington,  Dr.  Anthony,  attends 
Gibbon's  father,  i.  122 ;  predicts 
recovery  of  George  IIL,  i.  122: 
attends  Godfrey  Clarke,  i.  238,  24i 

*Adelaide,  Madame,  i.  326 ;  ii.  292 

*Aitken  ("  John  the  Painter  "),  the 
Bristol  incendiary,  i.  301 

Albemarle,  Lady,  i.  207 

Alien  Bill,  the,  ii.  363 

*  Allen,  Ethan,  i.  270 
Almack's  Club,  i.  283 
Althorpe,  Lord,  ii.  18 

America,  resolutions  of  Congress,  i. 
242 ;  Declaration  of  Independence, 
i.  283;  troubles  with,  i.  249-251, 
256-265  passim,  270,  272,  278,  284, 
287  et  seq.,  316,  324,  325,  329 ;  ii. 
9,  25,  69,  151 ;  treaty  with  France, 
i.333 

Amherst,  Colonel,  i.  174 

*Amory,  Thomas,  Tlie  Life  of  John 
Buncle,  i.  189 

*Amyand,  Sir  George,  ii.  184 

Ancaster,  Duchess  of,  ii.  300,  315 


I   Ancram,  Earl  of,  ii.  275 

Andrews,  Richard,  ii.  126,  138,  184 

*  Annual  Register,  quoted,  i.  17,  108, 
146,  156,  220,  371 

*An8elme,  General,  ii.  314 

Apsley,  Lord,  i.  149 

*Arbuthnot,  Admiral,  i.  363,  384 

Aries,  Archbishop  of.  See  Dulau, 
J.  F.  M. 

Armitstead,  Mrs.,  marries  C.  J.  Fox, 
ii.  179 

*Arnold,  Benedict,  1.  270,  275,  294 

*Arnould,  Sophie,  ii.  211 

Arras,  Bishop  of  (M.  H.  de  Conzie), 
ii.  266 

*Articles,  Parliament  and  the 
XXXIX.,  i.  147 

Ashburnham,  Lord,  i.  225 ;  ii.  305 

Ashburton,  Lord,  i.  90,  238  ;  Madras 
Council  prosecution,  i.  362 ;  Chan- 
cellor of  Duchy  of  Lancaster,  ii. 
13.  96 

Ashby,  Mrs.,  i.  253,  287 ;  ii.  22 

Associations,  formed  to  support  the 
Government,  ii.  349,  352 

*Astley,  Sir  John,  i.  148 

Aston,  Lady,  i.  38 ;  ii.  135 

Aston,  Sir  Willoughby,  i.  38 ;  ii.  135 

Atwood's  Club,  Gibbon  joins,  i.  152 

Auckland,  Lord  (William  Eden), 
j  American  Commissioner,  i.  332; 
I  Gibbon's  colleague  on  Board  of 
Trade,  i.  366;  his  advice  to 
Gibbon,  i.  387;  M.P.  for  Wood- 
stock, i.  390 ;  created  a  peer,  IL  25 ; 
squib  'on  his  mission  to  France,  ii. 
148 ;  signs  treaty  between  England 
and  France,  ii.  152;  Gibbon's 
claret,  ii.  282,  288 ;  at  the  Hague, 
ii.  365 ;  Gibbon's  host  at  Becken- 
ham,  ii.  395,  397 ;  his  Journal  and 


404 


INDEX. 


Correspondence  'juotej,  ii.  19,  33, 

57,   i)2,   157,   ir,S,  162,   172,  263, 

397-399 
Augusta,    Prineesa      (Duchess     of 

Brunswick),  i.  do,  141> 
Austria,    Emperor    Leojwld  of.   his 

meeting  with  King  of  Prussia  at 

Pilnitz,  ii.  271 
Austria,  Empress  Maria  Theresa  of, 

i.  394 
*Autobiography,  Gibbon's,  quoted,  i. 

25,  29,  173 
*Avranehes,  Bisliop  of,  ii.  324 


B 


Bach,  Johann  Christian,  apjwinted 
Director  of  Public  Concerts  in 
London,  i.  204 

*Baddeley,  Mrs.,  i.  14G 

Bagshot  camp,  review  at,  ii.  304 

Bakc'r,  tlie  Jesuit,  receives  Gibbon 
into  Eoman  Catholic  Church,  i.  1 

*Ball,  Dean  of  Chichester,  i.  399 

Balsamo,  Giuseppe.  Ste  Cogliostro, 
Comte  de 

Baltimore,  Lord,  i.  91 

*Banke8,  Mr.,  M.P.  for  Corfe  Castle, 
ii.  97 

Banks,  Sir  Joseph,  ii,  218,  22*5,  239 

Bara:4zi,  M.  (Banker  at  Rome),  i.  71, 
72 

Barbary,  and  Spain,  i.  265 

Barrc,  Colonel  Isaac  (the  Black 
^Vlusqueteers),  i.  2G,  145,  238,  240, 
250 ;  Paymaster  of  the  Forces,  ii. 
19 

*Barri,  Madame  du,  i.  313,  314 

*Barrington,  Viscount,  i.  349 

*Barrington,  Sir  J.,  i.  89 

Barrington,  Shute  (Bishop  of  Dur- 
ham), i.  195 

Barrymore,  Lord,  ii.  303 

Barthelemy,  Marquis  de,  ii.  355,  370 

Bartoli,  M.,  i.  59 

Barton,  Mr.,  i.  142.  193 

Barton,  George  (Lord  Sheffield's 
footman),  i.  250,  252 

Bussano,  Ducde,  ii.  367 

Bathurst,  Earl,  i.  341,  393 

B.%tt,  John  Thomas  ("Lawyer 
Batt"),  Master  in  Chancery,  and 
Commissioner  for  auditing  Public 
Accounts,  i.  191, 196,  216, 240,  )i61, 
265,  273, 279, 390  ;  ii.  136, 158,  163, 
218, 225,  239,  244, 313, 330, 349 

Batten,  Mr.,  i.  162 

*Bavaria,  Elector  oi",  i.  334 


Bavois,  jMadame  de  (Miss  Comarqvie), 
i.  82,  83.  220 

Bavley,  Mr.,  i.  17, 119, 152,  249 

Bayley,  Dr.,  ii.  394 

Beauchamp,  Lord,  i.  247,  393)  ii.  6, 
32,  102 

Beauclerk,  Lady  Diana,  i.  82,  279, 
304,  348 

Beauclerk,  Topham,  i.  S2,  279,  280'. 
299,  304, 333.  :'.48 

*Beaumarchais.  i.  371 

*Beaumont  and  Fletcher's  Knight  of 
the  Burning  Pestle,  i.  284 

Beau vu  is,  Bishop  of.  ii.  342 

Beauvau,  Princess  de,  i.  314, 319 

*Beckford,  Lord  Mayor,  presents- 
" Eomonstiauce  "  to  King.  i.  113 

♦Becliford,  Mr.,  and  Gibbon's  library 
ii.  .300 

Bedford,  Duchess  of,  i.  262 

Bedford,  Duke  of,  ambassador  to 
France,  i.  30,  32,  35;  and  the 
British  Coflfee-House,  i.  201 

'^Bedford  Correspondence,  the,  quoted, 
i.  28 

Belmore,  Lady,  ii.  275 

*Belmore,  Lord,  ii.  275 

Bellamont,  Loni,  liis  duel  with  Lori 
Townsliend,  i.  1»0, 182 

*Benfield,  Paul,  i.  308 

*Bengal,  famine  in,  i.  184 

*Bentiuck,  Lord  Edward,  ii.  350 

Beriton,  Gibbon's  Hants  Estate,  i. 
128,  J53;  ii.  6,  138,  175,  182,  189, 
199  et  seq.,  222  et  sen.,  227,  234, 
240 

Berkeley,  Lord,  i.  58,  74 

Berne,  Canton  of,  ii.  283,  295,  299,. 
316,  370 

*Berry,  Miss,  on  Gibbon's  library,  ii. 
301 

Bertrand-MoUeville,  Marquis  de,  ii. 
311,  329 

Besangon,  Gibbon  at,  i.  36 

*Besson,  Madame,  i.  60 

♦Best's  Personal  tmd  Literary  Memo- 
rials quoted,  i.  396 

*Biographie  Universelle,  ii.  326 

Birch,  Rev.  Dr.  Thomas,  ii.  366 

*Biron,  Due  de,  ii.  290 

Biron,  Duchesse  de,  ii.  289,  324,  333 

Black  Musqueteers,  the,  i.  26 

Blackstone's  Commentaries,  quota- 
tion from,  ii.  205 

Blessingti  -n.  Earl  of.  i.  2 

Blondel,  Gibbon's  valet,  ii.  124,  131 

Board  of  Trade,  Gibbon  appointed 
Commissioner  of,  i  354,  366;  vote 
passed  against:  Burke  on  value 
of,  i.  378;  suppressed,  ii.  14 


INDEX. 


405 


Bobbin,  Bcnjamiu,  i.  33 

iiois8ier,  i.  iH,  10") 

Bolinyibroke,     Lady    (LaJy    Diana 

Spencer),  i.  82,  85 
Bolingbrokc,  Lord, "  the  Bully,"  i.  8'2, 

S5,  312 
*Bollmann,  M.,  ii.  292 
Bolton,  Duke  of,  i.  89,  44,  153 
JJolton,  Theopliilus,  i.  Si 
'BombelleB,  Madame  de,  ii.  115 
■*BondeIi,  Julie  von,  her  account  ol' 

Gibbon  and  Mdlle.  Curchod,  i.  40 
*Bonfoy,  Captain  Hugh,  R.N.,  i.  180, 

265 
Bonfoy,  Mrs.   Hugh  (n^e  Eliot),   i. 

189,  220.  2d(; ;  ii.  380 
Bonham,  Mr.,  ii.  175,  182 
Boutemps,  Madanx;,  i.  iJl,  35 
Boodle's  Club,  Masquerade  given  by, 

at  the  Pantheon,  i.  212,  215 
Bordot,  M.,  i.  22 
Borromean  Islands,  i.  57 
Boston,  attack  upon  the  teaships  in 

the  hariiour,  i.  20o ;  Port  Bill,  i. 

206,   208;   investment  of,   i.   257, 

258 
^Boswell's   Lifii  of  Johnson   quoted, 

i.  273 
*Boufilers,  Due  de,  ii.  289 
^BoufSers,  Marquise  de,  i.  312 
Bouille',  Manjuis  de,  ii.  254,  256, 270, 

285,  286,  329 
Bouillon,  Due  de,  ii.  25(;,  334 
Bouilloti,  Madame  de,  ii.  334 
Boulogne,  Gibljon  at,  i.  27 
Bourbon,  Abbe  de,  ii.  1 15 
Bourbon.  Due  de,  ii.  237,  269 
Bourcard,  M.,  ii.  45 
Boydell,    John    (Lord   Mayor),   his 

edition    of  Shakespeare,    ii.   276, 

359,  374 
Bradley.  Thomas,  i,  35 
•Bramston's  The  Man  of  Taste,  i.  124 
♦Brandt,  i.  143 
-"*Brathwaite,  Colonel,  ii.  19 
♦Brentes,  jMadanie  de,  i.  81 
Bricknall,  Mr.  Gibbon's  lawyer,   i. 

131, 133,  141,  1.50,  153 
Bridgewater,  Duke  of,  i.  27,  28 
■*Brienne,  Cardinal   de  (Archbishop 

of  Sens),  ii.  162, 181 
Brighton,  Cribbou's  house  at,  ii.  3,  7 
Brissone,  Madame  de,  i.  2 
Brissot,   J.  Pierre  (de  Warville),  ii. 

25S,  259,  318, 323,  350 
^Bristol,  Earl  of,  i.  21,  265;  ii.  15 
Bristol,  Countess  of.    See  Kingston, 

Duchess  of 
Bristol,  toll-gate  riots  at,  ii.  390 
Brititow,  Miss,  ii.  105,  117 


British  coffee-house,  tlie  resort  of 
Scotchmen,  i.  201 

Broglie,  Due  de,  ii.  269 

Bromwich,  Mr.,  i.  93 

""Brooke,  Member  of  Madras  (Juuncil, 
i.  362 

^Brooklyn,  battle  of,  i.  287 

*  Brooks's  Club,  i.  283,  376 

Brown,  Lancelot  (the  landscape 
gardener  known  as  "  Capability 
Brown  "),  i.  203 

Bruce,  James,  of  Kinnaird,  ii.  226 

Brunswick,  Antiquities  of  the  House 
of,  ii.  228-232 

Brunswick,  Hereditary  Prince  of,  ii. 
115, 117 

Brunswiek-Wolfenbiittel,  Duchess  of, 
(Princess  Augusta  of  Wales),  i. 
65,  149 

Brunswiek-Wolfenbiittel,  Duke  of, 
i.  149,  272,  Til ;  Commander-in- 
Chief  of  Austrian  and  Prussian 
armies,  ii,  311,  319 ;  bis  retreat, 
ii.  319,  326,  346 :  his  manifestoes, 
ii.  368 

^Brydges,  Sir  Egerton,  ii.  302 

Buckinghamshire,  Lord,  i.  394;  ii. 
275 

Bude,  General,  ii.  302,  327 

*Bull,  Lord  Mayor,  i.  201 

""Burges,  Sir  James  Bland,  his  .ac- 
count of  Gibbon's  first  meeting 
with  Pitt,  ii.  28 

Burgoyne,  General  John,  his  motion 
on  the  E.  I.  Co.,  i.  184 ;  iu 
America,  i.  249,  291 ;  his  sur- 
render at  Saratoga,  i.  324,  325; 
refused  admission  to  Court,  i.  338 

*Burgoyne's  Maid  of  the  Oahs,  i.  219 

Buriton.     See  Beriton 

Burke,  Edmund,  i.  148  ;  Goldsmith's 
I'-pitaph,  i.  202 ;  meeting  at  Captain 
Horneck's,  i.  207  ;  description  of,  in 
Goldsmith's  Retaliation,  i.  210 ; 
'•  a  watermill  of  words  and  images," 
i.  240  ;  "  a  Committee  of  Oblivion," 
i.  248 ;  the  New  York  Eemon- 
strance,  i.  256 ;  on  E.  I.  Co.,  i. 
294 ;  Tiekell's  Anticipntion,  i. 
348  ;  the  Madras  Council  prose- 
cution, i.  362;  his  Establishment 
Bill,  i.  376,  ii.  28;  on  literary 
value  of  Board  of  Trade,  i.  37H ; 
Paymaster-General,  ii.  18,  34; 
Sheridan  sinks  into  arms  of,  ii. 
172 ;  criticises  Dr.  Price's  work, 
ii.  210;  his  liejlections  on  the 
devolution  in  France,  ii,  237,  249 ; 
Gibbon's  opinion  of,  ii.  'SSI,  251 ; 
his  speech  on  Quebec  Bill,  ii.  246 ; 


406 


INDEX. 


his  strictures  on  Lally,  ii.  274 ; 
attacks  Puine's  BlgJds  of  Man,  ii. 
297 ;  "  Mr.  Fox's  coach  stops  the 
way,"  ii.  306;  Irish  llonian 
Catholics,  ii.  321;  Philosophers  in 
France,  ii.  325 ;  plan  for  settle- 
ment of  French  refugees,  ii.  331. 

*Buniey,  Dr.,  ii.  375 

•Burne'y,  Miss,  i.l48;  on  Miss  Sarah 
Holroyd,  i.  181 ;  Lawyer  Batt,  a 
"  prime  favourite  "  of,  i.  240 ;  on 
Lord  Eliot,  i.  273 ;  her  reference  to 
"Pliny"    Melmoth,    i.    32G;    her 

'.  opinion  of  Lord  Sheffield,  i.  392 ; 
Lady  Miller  at  Bath,  ii.  2  ;  Lady 
E.  Foster,  ii.  15;  Madame  de 
Stael  at  Dorking,  ii.  375 

Burrard,  Sir  H.,  ii.  84,  93 

Burtenshaw's  Manifesto,  i.  221,  228 

*Burton,  Kev.  David,  Canon  of  Christ 
Church,  ii.  135 

Bute,  Lord,  i.  45,  50,  82;  the  Minis- 
terial Club,  i.  84;  the  Irish 
Catliolies  in  arms,  ii,  350 

Byng,  John,  i.  00 

*Byion,  Lord,  his  definition  of  "ri- 
dotto,"  i.  124  ;  his  attack  on  Hay- 
ley,  i.  398 


C 


Cadell,  Thomas,  Gibbon's  publisher, 

i.  222,  279,  282,  285,  3G4 ;  ii.  152, 

157,  158,  17G,  243,  282 ;  Gibbon's 

letter  to,  ii.  313 
Cadogan,  Dr.,  ii.  123,  310 
Cagliostro,  Comte  de  (Giuseppe  Bal- 

samo),  ii.  45,  54 
Calonne,    Chas,    Alexandre    de,   ii. 

162,  237,  269 
Cambis,  Madame  de,  i.  312  ;  ii.  290 
*Cambis,  Vicomte  de,  i.  312 
Cambridge,  Richard  0.,  i.  108,  279 ; 

ii.    226;     his    family    called    by 

Gibbon    "eloquent     nymphs     of 

Twickenham,"  i.  192,  197  ;  "  the 

Cantabs."  i.  228,  233 
Camden,  Lord,  i.  149,  333 ;  President 

of  the  Council,  ii.  13.  306 
*Campaza8,  Friar  Gerund  de,  i.  144 
*Campbell,  Lord,  and   the   Rosslvn 

MSS.,  ii.  372 
Cane,   Eliz.   Bridget  (Mrs.  Armit- 

stead),  ii.  179 
Caplin,  Gibbon's  servant,  i.  197,  230, 

248;   ii.   8,  9,  59,  110,  119,  131, 

166 
*Carey,  General,  i.  282 
*Carhampton,  Earl  of,  i.  146 


Carleton,  Sir  Guy  (Gov.-Geueral  of 
Canada),  i.  270,  276,  277,  286,  290  ; 
siege  of  Ticonderoga,  i.  294 

Carlisle,  Lord,  his  opinion  of  Madame 
Geoffrin,  i.  29 ;  appointed  American 
Commissioner,  i.  332 ;  Lord  Privy 
Seal,  ii.  34 

Carfnarthen,  Marquis  of,  ii.  28,  86,. 
327 

Carnarvon,  Marquis  of,  i.  39,  44;  ii. 
303 

*Carnatic,  Nabob  of  the,  i.  209,  308 

Carter,  Miss,  ii.  135 

Castries,  Marquis  de,  ii.  210,  267,  209 

Catch  Club,  The  Noblemen  and 
Gentlemen's,  i.  200,  283 

Catherine,  Empress  of  Russia,  i.  158, 
270 ;  ii.  247 

*Cavendisli,  Lord  George,  i.  232  ;  ii. 
350 

Cavendish,  Lord  John,  his  amend- 
ment on  American  affairs,  i.  240, 
273  ;  ii.  32 ;  Chancellor  of  Ex- 
chequer, ii.  13,  18.  34 

Cazales,  Jacques  Marie  de,  ii.  252, 
269,  274 

Celesia,  Madame  (n^c  Mallet),  i.  18,, 
21,  62,  124 

Celesia,  Pietro  Paolo,  i.  18,  20,  62 

Chandieu,  Mdlle.  de,  ii.  43 

*Charlemont,  Lord,  i.  85 

*Charles  Emanuel  III.,  King  of 
Sardinia,  i.  58 

Charles  X.  (Comte  d'Artois),  ii.  203,. 
204,  251,  266 

Charri^rcs,  Madame  de,  ii.  43 

Chateaimenf,  M.  de,  French  Resi- 
dent at  Geneva,  ii.  317 

Chateau-Vieux,  Swiss  regiment  of, 
ii.  270 

*Chatham,  Earl  of,  returns  to  public- 
life,  i.  112;  his  American  Bill,  i. 
251;  his  boast,  i.  290;  conciliation 
for  America,  i.  324  ;  his  death,  i'. 
338 

Chatillou,  Marie  Jeanne  de.  See 
Bontemps,  Madame 

Chauvelin,  M..  ii.  362,  366,  367,  370 

Chelsum,  Dr.  James,  on  Decline  and 
Fall,  i.  295 

*Chermont  d'Amboise,  Marquis  de, 
i.  314 

Chesterfield,  Lord,  i.  25,  150,  158- 
his  Letters,  i.  195;  his  Portraits,  i. 
313 

*Cheyte  Singh,  Rajah  of  Benares,, 
ii.  26 

Chichester,  Earl  of  (Lord  Pelham  of 
Stanmer),  1.  200 

Chichester,  Lady,  i.  200 


I 

I 


INDEX. 


407 


"■"Child,  Mr.,  author  of  Englixli,  and 

Scottibli  Popular  Ballads,  i.  '28o 
*Chimay,  Prince  dc,  i.  312 
(Jhoiseul,  Due  de,  i.  312,  314,  318 ; 

ii.  286 
Cholmondeley,  Earl,  i.  2G2 
Christian  VII.,  King  of  Denmark,  i. 

1-13 
Christie,  Mr.,  ii.  69,  83 
*Clmdleigh,   Miss.      See    Kingston, 

Duchess  of 
*Cil)ber   and   Vanbrugh's    Tlie  Pro- 
voked Husband,  i.  366 ;  ii.  29 
*Clare,  Lord,  i.  132 
Ciarges,  Lady  (we'e  Skrine),  ii.  135 
*Clarges,  Sir  Thomas,  ii.  135 
Clarke.   Godfrey    Bagnal,   Gibbon's 

intimate   friend,  i.    14:4,  148,  155, 

201,  205,  208,  211,  214,  219,  222- 

224,  229,  232,  238,  241,  244 
Clarke,  George  Hyde,  i.  61 
*CIarke,  Jervoise,  i.  89,  90 
Claviere,  Edenne,  ii.  315 
*Cleland,  John,  i.  53 
*Clermont-Tonnerre,  ii.  329 
Cline,  Henry,  ii.  393 
Clinton,  Sir  Henry,  i.  349,  384;  ii. 

71,  153,  240,  377 
Clinton,  General  Sir  William,  i.  249. 

300 ;  ii,  71 
Clive,  Lord,  i.  184,  238 
Clive,  Mrs.,  i.  175 
Coalition   Ministry,   the   (1783),   ii. 

34,  86,  92 
Cobham,  Lady,  1.  314,  316 
*CobU>iitz,  the  rally ing-point  of  the 

Emifjr^s,  Ii.  265 
Cocoa-Tree  Tavern,  i.  84 
*Coke,  T.  W.,  M.P,  for  Norfolk,  ii. 

33 
Coleraine,  Lord,  i.  146,  148,  310 
Colman,   George,   "  The    Luminous 

Historian,"   etc.,   i.   59 ;    ii.    154 ; 

(libbon's  opinion  of   The  Man  of 

Business,  i.  202 ;  his  description  of 

Gibbon  in  Random  Records,  i.  313 
Comarque,  Miss.  See  Bavois,  Madame 

de 
Concord,  the  March  to,  i.  257 
•Conches  M.  Feuillet  de,  ii.  257, 352 
Conde,  Louis  Joseph,  Prince  de,  ii. 

237,  265,  269 
Congress,  American,  i.  242,  250 
Conway,   General,   i.    84,    85,   287; 

Commander-in-Chief,  ii.  13,  18,  20, 

32 
Conway,  Hon.  and  Kev.  Edward,  ii. 

112 
Conway,  Hon.  William,  ii.  7,  18,  20, 

32 


Conway,  T.,  i.  247 

Conzie,  Marc  Hilairo  de  (Bishop  of 

Arras),  ii.  266 
*Cook,  Captain,  ii.  218 
*Cooke,  Dr.,  Provost  of  Kings,  Cam- 
bridge, i.  108,  157 
*Cooke,  Thomas,  known  as  "  Hesiod  " 

Cooke,  i.  284 
*Cooper,  John,  M.P.  for  Downton,  i. 

250 
*Coote,  Sir  Eyre,  ii.  26 
Corcelles.  Madame  de,  ii.  43 
*Corisandc,  La  belle,  ii.  265 
*Cork,  Earl  of,  i.  34 
Corn  Kegulation  Bill,  ii.  239 
*Cornely8,   Mrs.   Theresa,    and   the 

Soho  Masquerades,  i.  131 
Cornwall  is,  Hon.  F.  (Archbishop  of 

Canterbury),  i.  319 
Cornwallis,  Lord,  in  America,  ii.  171 ; 
campaign  against  Tippoo,  ii.  275. 
285 
Courtenay,  Hon.  Charlotte,  ii.  24 
Courteuay,  Harry,  i.  18 
Courtenay,  Lord,  ii.  24 
Coventry  election  petition,  i.  393 
Cowper,  Earl,  i.  65 
*Cowper,  William,  i.  83 
Coxheath  Camp,  i.  340,  346;  Lord 

Sheffield  at,  ii.  18,  25 
*Cradock,  Joseph,  i.  143 
*Craon,  Prince  de,  i.  314 
Crauford.  "  Fish,"  ii.  67 
*Crauford,  "  Flesh,"  ii.  67 
Crauford,   Mrs.,  Gibbon's  landlady, 

ii.  164 
Craufurd    of   Auchinames,    ii.    388, 

400 
Craven.  Lord,  i.  148 
*Crewe,  Lord,  ii.  350 
*Cromwell,  Major  Henry,  ii.  72 
Cromwell,  Oliver  (solicitor),  ii.  72 
*Crosby,  Lord  Mayor  Brass,  i.  130 
Crousaz,  Catherine,  ii.  81 
Crousaz,  Madame  de.    See  Jlontolien. 

Madame  de 
Cumberland,  Duchess  of  (Mrs.  Hor- 

ton),  i.  146,  150,  154 
Cumberland.   Duke   of,  i.  146,  149, 

150,  154;  ii.  3,  111 
*Cumberland's  Fashionahle  Lover,  i. 

143 
*Cuninnghnm,  Captain,  i.  310 
Curcliod.  Mdlle.  Suzanne.     See  Nee- 

ker,  Madame 
Custine,  Adam  de,  his  incursion  into 

Germany,  ii.  319.  332 
Outbbert.  "  Dr.,     attends     Gibbon's 
father,  i.  115 


408 


INDEX. 


D 


•rAgnessean,  Madame,  ii.  333 

M'Aliunville,  Comte,  ii.  32(j 

Dalrymple,  Sir  John,  Memoirs  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  i.  liil 

Damas,  Comte,  ii.  280 

Damer,  Hon.  John,  i.  139,  144, 
287 

*Damer,  Hon.  Lionel,  ii.  350 

*d'Arblay,  Madame,  Diani  and  Let- 
ters, quoted,  i.  108 ;  ii.  15,  211,  284, 
302 

Darby,  Captain,  i.  257,  258,  2(50 

*d'Argenteuil,  M.,  i.  294 

d'Argout,  Comte,  ii.  280 

Darrel,  Mr.,  i.  7,  20,  74 

Darrel,  Mrs.,  i.  7,  17,  38 

Darrel,  Kobert,  ii.  34,  280,  :!7<j,  400 

Dartmouth,  Lord,  i.  258,'2r.S' 

d'Artois,  Comto  (Charles  X.),  ii.  203. 
204,  251,  266 

*d'Assas,  Chevalier,  ii.  204 

(l'Aup:ny,  M.,  1.  31,  35 

*'d'Auiioy,  IMadame,  Me'inoires  de  la 
Conr  (VEspagne,  quoted,  i.  202 

*Davis,  Henry  Edward,  i.  355 

*Davy,  Sir  Humphrey,  i.  139 

Dawkes,  Mrs.,  i.  204 

*d'Aven,  Due.  i.  305 ;  ii.  333 

*Dean,  Sir  Eobert,  i.  85 

Deane,  Silas,  i.  SOI,  334 ;  ii.  CO 

Decline  and  Fall  of  the  Roman  Em- 
pire, History  of,  i.  259,  201.  204, 
275,  277,  279,  285,  295,  304,  342, 
355,  360,  390;  ii.  21,  119,  143,  152, 
170,  230 

Deffand,  Madame  du,  on  Madame 
Geotfrin,  i.  29 ;  on  Voltaire's  La 
I'rijicesse  de  Bahijlone,  i.  91 ;  her 
reference  to  tlie  Neckers,  i.  281; 
lier  lilo  in  Paris  described  by  ! 
Gibbon,  i.  312;  on  Giblion  autl  i 
Madame  de  C.tmbis,  i.  313;  on 
Bisliop  of  AiTas,  ii.  206 

■""Doft'ind,  Marquis  du,  i.  312 

*Defoe's  Memoirs  of  Captain  Carle- 
ion,  i.  273 

*de  la  Borde,  Jean  Benjamin,  ii.  54 

Delacour,  Dr..  i.  208,  304,  336,  337, 
394 ;  ii.  10 

*Dc'laval,  Lord,  ii.  275 

*Delaval,  Sir  Francis,  ii.  275 

*de  laWarr,  Lord,  i.  107 

*d'li:nKhien,  Due,  ii.  237 

Denhoff,  Countess,  i.  149 

Denmark,  Christian  VII.,  King  of, 
i.  143 

Denmark,  JuliaTia  Maria,  Queen 
Dowager  of,  i.  143 


Denmark,  Queen  Caroline  Matilda 
of,  i.  143 

Denmark,  Revolution  in,  i.  143,  144, 
146,  149 

'M'Ennery,  Comte,  ii.  280 

Denton,  Mrs.,  i.  130 

Denys,  Madame  (Voltaire's  niece), 
i.  43,  92 

*Derry,  Bisliop  of,  ii.  1.5,  388 

d'Estaing,  Comte,  i.  337,  350,  370, 
384,  395 

Devonshire,  Duchess  of,  i,  33,  370; 
ii.  300,  310,  312,  315,  319,  327,  339, 
388 

Devonshire,  Duke  of,  ii.  15,  305 

Deyverdun,  George,  Gibbon's  inti- 
mate friend,  i.  82,  83,  110,  15s, 
188-214  passim,  232,  236,  255.  202, 
291;  otfers  his  house  to  Gibbon, 
ii.  41,  108 ;  his  description  of 
Lausanne  society,  ii.  43 ;  Gibbon's 
host  at  Lausanne,  ii.  75  et  seq. ; 
(xibbon's  opinion  of,  ii.  89,  118; 
his  illness,  ii.  17G,  179,  188;  and 
deatii,  ii.  194,  207.  229;  Gibbon'.s 
letters  to,  ii.  35,  45,  54  ;  his  letters 
to  Gibbon,  ii.  39,  52 

*d'Haussonville,  M.,  his  Salon  de 
Madame  Necker,  i.  40,  41 

*d'Heuin,  Prince,  ii.  211 

d'He'nin,  Princess,  ii.  211,  290,  322, 
324,  32S),  334,  312,  349,  377 

Diary,  the  (newspaper),  ii.  351,  370 

*lJictionari/  of  National  Biography 
quoted,  i.  283 

Di<,'by,  Captain,  i.  334 

*Dmon,Mr.,i.  180 

*Dillon,  General,  murdered,  ii.  299 

*Disraeli's  Calamities  of  Authors 
quoted,  i.  23 

*D()dslpy's  tragedy  of  Cleone,  i.  18 

Dorchester,  Earl  of,  i.  139  ;  ii.  350 

d'Orleans,  Regent  Due,  i.  312,  326 

Dorset,  Ist  Duke  of,  i.  139 

Dorset,  3rd  Duke  of.  Ambassador  at 
Paris,  i.  226 ;  ii.  86 

*d'Orvillicrs,  Count,  i.  349 

Douglas,  Lady  Catheiine,  ii.  377,  387 

*Dowling,  Surgeon,  ii.  295 

Down,  Charles,  i.  244 

Downes,  Rev.  Dr.  Dive,  i.  205 

Downshire,  Marquis  of,  ii.  5 

Draper,  General  Sir  William,  ii.  22 

*Drouct,  Postmaster,  ii.  254,  326 

Drummond,  Andrew,  i.  71 

Duane,  Mr.,  i.  201,  218,  226,  234, 
201,  264 

Dulau,  J.  P.  ]M.  (Archbishop  of 
Aries),  ii.  322,  325 ;  his  murder 
de.soribed,  ii.  333,  341 


INDEX. 


409 


*Dummer,  Thoe.  Lcc,  i.  00,  2r)0 

Dumont,  M.,  ii.  2.")8 

Dumouriez,  M.,  ii.  299,  i}19,  o2G, 
3G8 

Duiicannon,  Lady,  ii.  310,  312 

Duncannon,  Lord,  ii.  J8,  lU 

'^Duncombe,  Thomas,  i.  250 

Dnndas,  Hon.  H<mry  (afterwards 
Lord  Melville),  Treasurer  of  Navy, 
ii.  19,  S6 ;  Lord  Advocate,  ii.  85 ; 
Secretary  of  State,  ii.  247,  306 ; 
Abolition  of  Slave  Trade,  ii.  29i  ; 
suggests  coalition  between  Pitt 
and  Fox,  ii.  30(1 ;  kiiii^'s  message 
ibr  angmontniion  of  forces,  ii.  365 

Duiming,  John.  See  Ashbnrton, 
Lord 

d'Ursel,  Duke.  ii.  83 

Dutch,  fears  of  war  with,  i.  ;>-J8,  353 

Dutens,  Louis,  i.  oG,  oii 

*Dut€Hsiaiia,  i.  314 

Dux,  George,  i.  52 


E 


*Eame8,  John,  i.  89 

Eardley,  Lord  (Sir  Sampson  fiideon), 

i.  225,  332;  ii.  21G 
East  India  Companj%  the,  i.  184, 186. 

209,  308 ;  ii.  85 
"* Eccentricities  far  Bdinhitrgh  quoted, 

i.  59 
*Eden,  Sir  Robert,  ii.  397 
Eden,  William.    See  Auckland,  Lord 
Egerton,  Sir  Thomas,  i.  148 
Ei!;remont,  Lord,  i.  247,  249;  ii.  175, 

182,  305,  388 
Elgin,    Thomas,    Lord,    Envoy    at 

Brussels,  ii.  383 
Elkin,  Sir  George,  i.  16 
Eliot,  Captain  John,  i.  62 
Eliot,  Hon.  Edward  James,   i.    390, 

3.94  ;  ii.  19,  20,  22,  143 
J^liot,  Hon.  John,  i.217,  229,  :^80 
Eliot,  Ladv,  i.  98,  110,  122,  131,  132, 

365 
Eliot,  Lord  (of  St.  Germans),  i.  70, 

84, 183,  188,  193, 228,  230, 231, 254, 

273,  342,  367,  369,  374 ;    Gibbon's 

appeal  to  and  defence,  i.  385,  38!) 
Eliott,  Admiral  Sir  George  A.     See 

Heathlield,  Lord 
Elizabeth,    Queen,    story    of     Lord 

Essex's  rins,  i.  276 
Elliot,  Grey,  ii.  69 
^''Elliot,  Lady,  ii.  374 
Elliot,  Sir  Gilbert,  i.  251 ;  on  treaty 

between  France  and   \J.  S.  A.,  i. 

333;   his  daughter's   nmrriage,  ii. 


25 ;  his  Life  and  Letters  quoted,  ii. 

172,  306,  351,  374 ;  his  support  of 

Government,    ii.    .305;     Duke    of 

Portland's  views  of  Alien  Bill,  ii. 

363 
Ellis,   George,  editor  of    Fabliaux, 

etc.,  i.  139 ;  Sir  Walter  Scott  on,  ii. 

184 ;  lines  on  Pitt  in  jRolliad,  ibid. 
lOUis,  Governor  Henry,  i.  73 
*Klliston,  Mrs.,  of  South  Weald,  i.  70 
Elmslev,  Peter,  the  bookseller,  i.  372 ; 

ii.  60.  94,  105,  113,  126,  158,  214, 

314,  388 
=''El8tob,  Lewis,  i.  118,  372 
Elstob,  Mrs.,  i.  372 
Ely,  Lady,  i.  26(; 
Ely,  Lord,  i.  265 
Ely,  :Madiime.  ii.  386 
Erskine,  ii.  297 
Jissai  sur  Ve'iude   de   la  LHt€rature, 

Gibbon's  first  published  work,  i. 

20,  80 
Essex,  Earl  of,  i.  276 
Establishment  Bill,  i.  376 
Etienne,  Gibbon's  valet,  ii.  243, 253 
Exchequer  Bills,  issue  of,  ii.  382 
Exeter,  I^ord,  i.  65 
lOxilies,  Fort,  i.  59 
*Eyre,  Mr.,  printer,  263 


F 


*Falklaud,  Lord,  i.  282 
*ranshaw.  Miss,  ii.  284 
Farquliar,   Sir    Walter,  ii.  393,  395, 

398,  401 
*Farquhar's  The  Twin  Ri mis,  ii.  102 
Faukier,  Jlr.,  i.  163 
Featherstonhaugh,  Lady,  i.  232, 235, 

246,  249 
Featherstonhaugh,  SirH.,i.  162,214, 

2.35,  247,  249 
Featherstonhaugh,  Sir  M.,  i.  56,  67, 

83,  84,  131.  162,  247 
Fenestrelle,  Fort,  i.  59 
^Ferguson,  Lieut.  James,  killed  by 

Captain  Roche,  i.  209 
Ferrieres,  M.  de,  ii.  318 
*Fersen,  Comte  de,  ii.  292 
*Feuche'res,  Madame  de,  ii.  237 
Firth,  Miss,    ii.    82,    91,   98,    334; 

Gibbon's   letter    to,   ii.    98 ;    and 

Severy's  studies,  ii.  167 
Fischer,  M.,  ii.  260,  2S3,  375 
*Fitzlierbert,  Mrs.,  ii.  150 
Fitzjames,  Duchess  of,  ii.  324 
Fitzmaurice,  Lord.     See  Shelburne, 

Earl  of 


410 


INDEX. 


Fitzpatrick,       Lady      Mary.      See 

Holland,  Lady 
Fitzroy,  Mrs.,  i.  ;iO 
Fitzwilliaiii,  Lord,  ii.  305 
Flanders,  invasion  of,  ii.  299 
*Fleming,  Sir  John,  i.  261 
Flood,  Henry,  i.  26-1 
Florence,  Gibbon  at.  i.  G." 
*Floyer,   Mr.,    Member    of    Madras 

Council,  i.  862 
Foley,  Mr.,  English  banker  at  Paris, 

i.  33,  3fi 
Foote,     Samuel,    his    BanJn-upt,    i. 
192 ;    A    Trip   to   Calais   stopped 
by  Duchees  of  Kingston,  i.  265 
Ford,  Mrs.,  Gibbon's  housekeeper,  i. 

192 ;  ii.  8 
Fordwich,  Lord.     See  Cowper,  Earl 
Fort  Louis,  surrender  of  garrison  to 

Austrians,  ii.  396 
Foster,   Lady    Elizabeth,   described 
by     Gibbon    as    "a     bewitching 
animal,"   "goddess,"  "  still   ador- 
able," "Bess,"  etc.,  ii.  15,  81,  117, 
300,  308.  310,  312,  319,  339,  388; 
Gibbon's  letter  to,  on  Lady  Shef- 
field's death,  ii.  380 
Foster,  John.     See  Oriel,  Ijord 
*Foster,  John  Thomas,  ii.  15 
Fothergill,  Dr.,  i.  177 
Fowler,  Mr.,  ii.  340 
Fox,  Charles  James,  supports  Church 
of  England,  i.  1^8 ;   Koyal   Mar- 
riage Bill,  i.  151 ;  his  debt.s  1. 198, 
264 ;  on  tronbles  witli  America,  i. 
249,  256,  303,  D24,  32S ;  the  king's 
debts,   i.   308 ;   on    the   Canadiim 
Expedition,     i.     .353;      Tickell's 
Anticipation,  i.  348;  his   lines  on 
Gibbon  as  Commissioner  of  Trade, 
i.  354;  on  Sheffield's  Regiment  of 
Horse,   i.    380;    M.P.    for   West- 
minster, i.  388,  390  ;    "  the  black 
Patriot,"  ii.  4 ;  Secretary  of  State, 
ii.    13,   34 ;   resigns  office,  ii.  18  ; 
and    American    independence,   ii. 
25;  George  III.'s  behaviour  to,  ii. 
84;  sale  of  his  library,  ii.  68;  his 
two   India  Bills,  ii.  86*;  Gibbon's 
opinion  of,  ii.  85,  92,  96,  251,  356, 
360,   372 ;    suggested  union   with 
Pitt,  ii.  92,  306,  307,  330  ;  no  com- 
promise, ii.  97  ;  his  "  Martyrs,"  ii. 
102;  "the  man  of  the  people,"  ii. 
179;    his   marriage,  z7nV/. ;   twelve 
hours'  talk  with  Gibbon,  ii.  180; 
speech  on  treaty  between  Russia 
and  Turkey,  ii.  246;  on  Abolition 
of  Slave  Trade,  ii.  294;  his  half- 
support  of  Grey's  motion,  ii.  297, 


320 :  "but  fifty  followers,"  ii.  305  r 
rejoices  at  retreat  of  Prussians,  iL 
320;  "detestable"  on  French 
atiairs,  ii.  330;  on  the  calling  out 
of  the  Militia,  ii.  349,  350;  his 
motion  for  an  Embassy  to  France, 
ii.  350.  353 ;  opposes  Alien  Bill,  ii.. 
364  ;  Duke  of  Portland's  adherence 
to,  ii.  367, 3(JS  ;  opposes  augmenta- 
tion of  forces,  ii.  368 
Fox,    Hon.    Stephen.     See   Holland,. 

2nd  Lord 
France,    tears  of  war  with,  i.   289, 
317  ;  treaty  with  America,  i.  33:-t;, 
war   with,    i.   339;    ii,    362,  374: 
treaty  with  En>iland,  ii.  152;  war 
declared  against  Francis  Joseph,. 
ii.   279;    war   with   Austria    and 
Prussia,     ii.     319 ;      treaty     with 
Geneva,  ii.  325,331,  345;  war  with 
England,  Holland,  and  Spain,  ii. 
362,  374 
Francillon.  M.,  ii.  283 
*Fianeis  Josejih,  of  Austria,  ii.  279,. 

292 
FraTikland,  Miss  Anne  (Lady  Chi- 
chester), i.  200 
*Frankland,  Sir  Thomas,  i.  200 
Franklin,  Dr.,  i.  162,  243,  310,  313 
Eraser,  General,  i.  264,  299,  363 
Eraser,  General  Simon,  i.  325 
Eraser,  Mrs,  "Donna  Catlierina,"  i. 

300;  ii.  10."),  117 
Fredennick,  M.,  ii.  260 
"^Frederick  the  Great,  i.  158  ;  ii.  2I(> 
Frederick  II.  of  Prussia,  i.  143:  ii.  137 
Frederick  AV'illiam    of    Prussia  at 

Pilnitz,  ii.  271 
French  Revolution,  ii.  246,  249,  270^ 
287,  293,  311;  massacres  of  Sep- 
tember, 1792;  ii.  :^12,  321,  351; 
and  Ireland,  ii.  320 ;  murder  of 
Louis  XVL,  ii.  360,  365 
Frey,   M.,  escorts   Gibbon   to   Lau- 

siinne,  i.  1 
*"  Friends  of  the  People,"  an  asso- 
ciation for  reform  of  representative 
system,  ii.  297 
Fullarton,  Colonel,  ii.  168 
Fuller.  Miss,  called   "Sappho"    hv 
Gibbon,  i.  196,  198,  202,  208,  241* 
Fuller,  Rose,  i.  196,  208 


G 


Gage,  General,  i.  206,  257,  258.  260,. 

266 
Gage,  William  Hall,  Viscount,  "the 

green  plumb,"  i.  225,  227 


INDEX. 


411 


*Gnlovlviii,  Comte  Fcdor,  i.  81 
""(xanstl,  Major-General,  i.  10^) 
Garrick,  Daviil,  as  '•  Sir  Joliii  Brute," 
i.ld;   Gibbon  a  friend  of,  i.  2(»1, 
289,  m\?, ;  in  Hamkf,  i.  2(i:! ;  letter 
from  Gibbon  to,  (]iiotf(l,  i.  317 
(xascoyue.  Bainber,  i.  JiGG 
*Gates,  General,  i.  32.") 
Gazette,  the,  i.  257,  392 
^Gazetteer,  the,  i.  14G 

Gee,  Mr.,  i.  3,  G 

*Gen]is,  Comte  de,  i.  32(1 

Geulis,  Madame  de,  her  opinion  of 
Madame  de  Cambis,  i.  313 ;  of 
Princesie  de  Beauviiu,  i.  314;  on 
Decline  and  Fall,  i.  32G  ;  on  Dr. 
Tissot's  skill,  ii.  77;  her  story  of 
Gibbon  and  Madame  de  Montolieu, 
ii.  154 

Geneva,  threatened  by  French, ii.  317, 
322 ;  the  Government  at,  ii.  318 ; 
treaty  with  France,  ii.  325,  331, 
345;  new  constitution  of,  ii.  370 

Genoa,  Gibbon  at,  i.  Gl 

Gentleman's  Magazine  cited,  ii.  289, 
301,  302,  314,  349 

Geoffriu,  Madame,  i.  2'.> 

♦George  II.,  ii.  321 

George  III.,  i.  45 ;  grants  pension  to 
M.  de  Viry,  i.  56 ;  his  intervention  in 
Denmark,  i.  143 ;  Royal  Marriage 
Bill,  i.  154 ;  reviews  fleet  at  Spit- 
head,  i.  186 ;  the  King's  speech  and 
America,  i.  238 ;  negotiates  for 
hire  of  Russian  mercenaries,  i.  270 ; 
and  Sir  H.  Palliser's  leg,  i.  356; 
his  behaviour  to  Fox,  ii.  34 ;  refuses 
to  dismiss  ministers,  ii.  100 ;  his 
illness  and  recovery,  ii.  181,  191 ; 
and  Lally,  ii.  285  ;  reviews  troops 
at  Bagshot,  ii.  304;  proclaims 
tumultuous  meetings,  etc.,  ii.  305 ; 
Lally's  Plaidoyer,  ii.  375. 

George  IV.     See  Wales,  Prince  of 

Germain,  Lady  George,  i.  328 

Germain,  Lord  George.  See  Sack- 
ville.  Lord 

*Germain,  Sir  John,  i.  198 

Germanie,  M.  de,  ii.  291 

*Gibbon,  Mrs.,  7466  Porteu  (Gibbon's 
mother),  i.  2 

Gibbon,  Mrs.,  n€e  Patton  (Gibbon's 
stepmother),  her  opinion  of  Miss 
Catherine  Porten,  i.  2;  marries 
Gibbon's  father,  i.  7;  Gibbon's 
inquiries  about,  i.  8;  subjects  of 
Gibbon's  letters  to  : — Dr.  Turton, 
i.  16, 114, 150, 371  ;  money  troubles, 
i.  19,  352,  359;  his  own  health, 
i.  83,  114,  150,  158,  24G,  321,  322, 


371,  .377-379,  399  ;  ii.  12,  108,  129, 
141, 1GG,248;  liis  father's  accident, 
i.  2G ;  Paris  and  the  Parisians,  i. 
28-:'.2,  :!15,  320  ;  Duke  of  Bftdford. 
i.  30,  32;   M.  d'Augny :  Madame 
Bonlemps,    i.    31  ;     Dr.    Acton   at 
B(sam;un,  i.  3G;  his  life  at  Lau- 
sanne,  i.  39,  42,  49,   .50;    ii.   7G, 
88-141   paasiin.    Ill;    Mdlle.  Cur- 
chod,   i.    40;    Voltaire,    i.   43,   91; 
Lady    M.    W.    Montagu's   Letters, 
i.    5:5;    Lis   tour   in   Italy,   i.   G3; 
English  visitors  at  Lausanne,  i.  G5  ; 
Rome   to  Naples,    i.   73;    Venice, 
i.  75 ;    Dey  verdun    and  Miss   Co- 
marque,  i.  83 ;  the  "  School  of  Vice," 
i.  84 ;    Rauolagli  Gardens,  i.   89  ;• 
his  father's  reproaches,  i.  98  ;    his 
father's   iilnt/ss   and  death,  i.  97, 
10.),  lOG,  118;  fall  of  the  ministry,, 
i.  112  ;  the  "  Remonstrance  "  debate, 
i.   113;    Lenborough,  i.   12G,  158, 
182,  185,  187,  210,  289;    Beriton,. 
i.  128,  153 ;  ii.  175,  20G,  248  ;  "  the 
ibrmal  Mr.  Bricknall,"  i.  131-133,, 
141;     Danish   revolution,   i.    143; 
Royal  3Iarriiigo  Bill,  i.  154 ;  house- 
hunting  in    London,   i.   171,    172,, 
175,    179;     James   Scott's    death, 
i.  177  ;  the  Townsheud-Bellamont 
duel,  i.  180,  182  ;  his  "  notions  "  of 
London   life,   i.    188 ;     his   friend 
Deyverdun,  i.  188,  210,  2G2;   ii.  89- 
et  seq..  Ill,  207 ;    "  an  approaching 
daughter-in-law,"  i.  197;  Johann  C. 
Bach,  i.  204  ;    masquerade  at  Pan- 
theon,  i.  215;    "Mrs.   Gibbon  of 
Northamptonshire,  not   of   Bath," 
i  21G;  Madame  de  Bavois,  i.  220  ; 
oft'cr  of  a  seat  in  Parliament,  i. 
230, 231 ;  M.P.  for  Liskeard,  i.  234; 
Godfrey  Clarke's  illness  and  death, 
i.  238,  244 ;  his  Parliamentary  life, 
i.  248.  253,  289,  325,  331,  365,  373; 
his  History,  see  Decline  and  Fall ; 
story  of  Essex's  ring,  i.  27G ;   the 
Neckers,  i.  283,  306,  320 ;  ii.  122 ; 
Garrick,  i.  289 ;  two  answers  to  his 
History,    i.    295;      Dr.    Hunter's. 
Anatomy    Lectures,   i.   304 ;     her 
groundless  fears,  i.  305,  306 ;   his 
Paris    friends,   i.   315 ;     Duke    of 
Richmond,    i.   31G ;    Madame    de 
Genlis,  i.  326  ;  at  Coxheath  Camp, 
i.  34G;    his  views  on   matrimony, 
i.  351 ;   a  Lord  of  Trade,  i.  366, 
378;  Lord  Eliot,  i.  369,  374,  386, 
391 ;    his   Me'moire   Justificatif,  1. 
371;   Mrs.  Williams,  i.  372,  374; 
Irish  trade,  i.  373  ;  Lord  Shcffield'a 


412 


INDEX. 


first  speech,  i.  ."80;  a  dissolution 
expected,  i.  i)80 ;  tlie  Gordon  riots, 
i.  881,  382;  Sheffield  and  the 
Northumberland  Militia,  i.  381  ; 
Sir  Henry  Clinton,  i.  384 ;  weary 
of  political  life,  i.  391 ;  George 
Scott's  deatli,  i.  39:5;  M.P.  for 
Lymingtou,  ii.  1  ;  at  Brighthelra- 
stone,  ii.  3,  7 ;  llayley,  the  poet, 
ii.  8,  17;  North's  resignation,  ii. 
13;  Board  of  Trade  suppiessed, 
ii.  14  ;  Lady  Elizabeth  Foster,  ii. 
15 ;  Eockinghani's  deatli,  ii.  17  ;  at 
*' Single-Speech  "Hatuilton's  house, 
ii.  21;  Mrs.  Ashby,  ii.  22;  Pitt, 
ii.  28 :  Mrs.  Sid.lons,  ii.  2!» ;  tlie 
Coalition  Mitiistr.y,  ii.  34;  retires 
from  Parliament,  ii.  58  ;  liis  Lau- 
sanne plans,  ii.  58,  Gl,  64,  71 ;  his 
propensity  for  happiness,  ii.  88 ; 
society  at  Laueunne,  ii.  89,  90,  122 ; 
climate  at  Lausanne,  ii.  129; 
ciianges  in  English  politics,  ii.  181 ; 
a  regimen  ol'  boiled  milk,  ii.  142 ; 
his  house  and  garden,  ii.  142,  248; 
a  ministry  of  rt'Spectable  bo}s, 
ii.  143 ;  intention  to  visit  England, 
ii.  155 ;  tl>e  two  Mr.  Gibbons,  ii. 
159 ;  Sheffield  Place,  ii.  160  ;  Bath, 
ii.  IGl ;  his  compliment  to  Lord 
Nortli,  ii.  170;  Cadell's  discretion, 
ii.  176  ;  Hugonin's  neglect,  ii.  207  ; 
tlie  French  Kevolution,  ii.  249,  308 ; 
the  Sheffields'  visit  to  Lausanne, 
ii.  309 ;  her  illness  and  recovery, 
ii.  348;  his  return  to  England,  ii. 
381,  384;  at  Althorp,  ii.  391;  Ins 
illness,  ii.  394,  398.  Her  letters  to 
Gibbon,  ii.  385,  399 
■Gibbon,  Edward  (father),  subjects  of 
his  son's  letters  to : — First  im- 
pressions of  Lausanne,  i.  1 ;  Vol- 
taire, i.  5 ;  a  stepmother,  i.  10; 
studies  under  Pavillard,  iht'd. ;  pro- 
jiosed  Swiss  tour,  i.  13 ;  Plolland, 
i.  15;  Sir  George  Elkia's  marriage, 
1,1(5;  the  Lottery,  i.  17;  King's 
Scholars'  play,  i.  18;  the  Celesias, 
i.  18,  (;2;  Dr.  Maty:  Mdlle.  de 
Viiucluse  and  M.  Oelesia,  i.  20; 
liis  Ixmdon  friends,  i.  21 ;  liopes  of 
Parliament,  i.  23,  45;  paternal 
•doubts  and  suspicions,  i.  34 ; 
Taaft'e,  i.  35 ;  gambling  losses,  i. 
3G,  47  ;  Dr.  Acton  and  Besan9on, 
i.  37 ;  the  Swiss  Militia,  i.  38 ; 
financial  troubles,  i.  45-48,  51,  52, 
55,  G9,  71,  73,  93-107  passim; 
Mont  Cenis,  i.  55;  Turin,  i.  56; 
A^enice,  i,  01  ;  his  friend  Guise,  i. 


62;  Rome,  i.  66;  Trajan's  Pillar, 
i.  67  ;  Barazzi  the  banker,  i.  71 ;  Sir 
T.  Worsley,  i.  78;  a  burgess  of 
Newtown,  i.  88  ;  the  Putney  Writ- 
ing.?, i.  98 ;  Gosling's  mortgage, 
i.  94,  95.     His  death,  i.  117 

Gibbon,  Edward — 

17.53-1772.  Under  Pavillard's  care 
at  Lausanne,  i.  1 ;  a  gambling 
scrape  :  his  appeal  to  Aunt 
Catherine,  i.  3,  4 ;  Voltaire  at 
Geneva,  i.  5,  43;  his  father's 
second  marriage,  i.  7;  his  plana 
and  studies,  i.  9-11;  his  father's 
silence,  i.  13;  returns  to  England, 
i.  15 ;  the  Lottery,  i.  17 ;  the 
Celesias,  i.  18.  20;  distressed  for 
money,  i.  19 ;  his  quarrel  with  Dr. 
Maty,  i,  21 ;  a  seat  in  Parliament — 
ambitions,  hopes,  and  fears,  i.  23, 
45 ;  in  the  Hants  Militia,  i.  25,  87 ; 
at  Boulogne,  i.  27  ;  friends  and 
acquaintances  in  Paris,  i.  28,  33 ; 
Thomas  Bradley's  afl'air,  i.  35; 
Dr.  Acton  at  Besangon,  i.  86 ;  with 
his  old  acquaintance  at  Lausanne, 
i.  38  et  seq. ;  Mdlle.  Curchod,  i. 
40,  81 ;  Ihe  fall  of  our  tyrant,  i. 
44;  unhappy  circumstances  of  our 
estate,  i.  47 ;  a  mixture  of  books 
and  good  company,  i.  49 ;  Lady 
M.  W.  Montagu's  Letters,  i.  58; 
proposed  tour  in  Italy,  i.  54; 
Turin,  i.  55,  58  ;  Boirometiu 
Islands,  i.  57;  his  snulfbox  and 
the  King  of  Sardinia's  daughters, 
i.  58;  Milan,  i.  60;  Genoa,  i.  61 ; 
Florence,  i.  68 ;  Englishmen  at 
Florence,  i.  65  ;  Rome,  i.  67  et  seq. ; 
ways  and  means,  i.  69,  100  et  seq., 
127,  186,  165-170;  the  very  worst 
roads  in  the  universe,  i.  73;  least 
satisfied  with  Venice,  i.  75 ;  Aus- 
trian etiquette,  i.  80;  separations 
increase  daily,  i.  82 ;  the  "  School  of 
Vice,"  i.  84 ;  "  Monsieur  Olroy's  " 
marriage,  i.  85  ;  a  burges^s  of  New- 
town, i.  88  ;  Ranelagh  Gardens,  i. 
89 ;  Voltaire  ruined,  i.  91  ;  the 
Putney  AVritings,  i.  93,  105 ;  pa- 
ternal doubts  and  suspicions,  i. 
98;  the  deed  of  trust,  i.  99,  101; 
Wentzel,  the  oculist,  i.  105;  the 
plain  dish  of  friendship,  i.  108 ; 
the  "  Remonstrance  "  debate,  i.  1 13 ; 
his  father's  illness  and  death,  i. 
115,  117,  121,  122;  Aunt  Hester's 
kind  letter,  i.  121 ;  detained  by 
Ridottos,  i.  124;  the  Soho  mas- 
(juerade,  i.  181 ;  the  eternal  Brick- 


INDEX. 


413 


null,  i.  133 ;  "  Fanner  Gibbon  of  no 
use  !  "  i.  Ii58  ;  "  Quis  tulerit  Grao- 
chos,"  i.  110;  these  Denmark 
affairs,  i.  14;-!,  149 ;  llnyal  Marriuge 
Bill,  i.  146, 1.")!,  154 ;  the  Pantheon, 
i.  147 ;  Worthy  Champions  of  the 
Church,  i.  148;  the  business  of 
Lord  and  Lady  Grosvenor,  i.  149  ; 
Dr.  Nowell's  sermon,  i.  151 ;  Sir 
K.  Worsley,  i.  153 ;  I^ord  Sheffield's 
editorial  methods,  i.  155;  Deyver- 
dun's  arrival,  i.  158  («ee  also 
Deyverdun,  George);  Master  Hol- 
royd's  death,  i.  KJO;  a  sprained 
ankle,  i.  161  ;  the  loud  trumpet  of 
advertisements,  i.  163 ;  a  tenant 
for  Beriton,  i.  165 ;  Liidy  Rons' 
house,  i.  171-175;  North's' somno- 
lence, i.  173  ;  James  Scott's  death, 
i.  177 
1773-1783.  Bellamont  -  Townshend 
duel,  i.  180;  a  due  mixture  of 
Htudy  and  society,  i.  183 ;  tlie 
E.  I.  Co.,  i.  184,  186,  209,  308 ;  ii. 
85;  sale  of  Lenborough,  i.  186 ; 
ii.  83 ;  Hume  :  W.  Robertson,  i. 
190;  Foote'd  ^(mArupt,  i.  192 ;  the 
beauties  of  Cornwall,  i.  194 ;  de- 
clines publication  of  Chestertield's 
Letters,  i.  195 ;  an  approaching 
daughter-in-law,  i.  197 ;  Fox'-s 
debts,  i.  198 ;  Kelly's  School  of 
Wives,  i.  199 ;  a  dinner  at  the 
"  Breetish  "  Coffee  House,  i.  201: 
Colman's  Man  of  Business,  i.  202 ; 
heads  of  a  convention,  i.  205 ; 
Boston  Port  Bill,  i.  206;  Mrs. 
Horneck,  i.  207;  great  news  from 
India,  i.  209  ;  receiving  one  friend 
and  comforting  another,  i.  210 ; 
Johnson  and  Gibbon — a  contrast, 
i.  213;  Boodle's  triumph,  i.  215; 
all  the  news  of  Versailles,  i. 
218;  Lord  Stanley's  fete  cham- 
petre.  i.  219 ;  Madame  de  Bavois ; 
i.  220 ;  Godfrev  Clarke's  illness 
and  death,  i.  223,  238,  244 ;  a  new 
man  for  the  county,  i.  225 ;  Roman- 
zow's  victory,  i,  227;  offer  of  a 
seat,  i.  228;  M.P.  for  Liskeard, 
i.  229 ;  dissolution  and  election, 
i.  231 ;  Wilkes  at  the  Mansion 
House,  i.  231 ;  a  visit  to  Bath,  i. 
231;  his  anxiety  for  Mrs.  Hol- 
royd,  i.  237 ;  deep  in  America,  i. 
243  (see  also  America) ;  a  party  of 
foxhunters,  i.  247;  troops  for 
America,  i.  249 ;  North's  concili- 
atory scheme,  i.  251 ;  a  silent 
member,  i.  253 ;  presentation  at 


Court,  i.  255  ;  the  march  to  Con- 
cord, i.  257;  a  great  historical 
work,  i.  259  ;  his  History  going  to 
press,  i.  261  ;  nothing  new  from 
America,  i.  265  ;  his  dog  the  com- 
fort of  his  life,  i.  267 ;  his  step- 
mother's sniall-pox,  i.  268 ;  diffi- 
culty in  raising  troops,  i.  271  ;  at 
work  on  his  History,  i.  273 ;  the 
book  almost  ready,  i.  275  ;  story  of 
Essex's  ring,  i.  276 ;  his  History 
published,  i.  279  ;  the  Neckers  in 
London,  i.  281,  282 ;  poor  Mallet, 
i.  283 ;  Dr.  Porteous,  i.  285 ;  an 
Irish  edition  of  the  Decline  and 
Fall,  i.  288;  fears  of  French  war, 
i.  289 ;  Howe's  proclamation,  i. 
291 ;  Suard  translHtes  his  History, 
i.  293 ;  two  answers  to  his  book,  i. 
295;  Septchenos'  translation  of 
Decline  and  hall,  i.  297  ;  a  war  of 
posts,  i.  299  ;  "  John  the  Painter," 
i.  301 ;  his  uniform  life,  i.  302  ; 
Hunter's  Lectures,  i.  304  ;  hia  step- 
mother's groumiless  fears,  i.  306; 
starts  for  Paris,  i.  30.^ ;  plea>ure3 
and  occupations  in  Paris,  i.  311 ; 
his  success  in  French  society,  i. 
313;  his  friends  and  acquaint- 
ances, i.  315;  no  risk  of  war  with 
France,  i.  317;  Due  de  Choiseul, 
i.  318  ;  a  martyr  to  gout,  i.  321 ; 
weary  of  the  war,  i.  323 ;  Saratoga, 
i.  324 ;  Madame  de  Genlis,  i.  326  ; 
London  a  dead  calm  and  delicious 
solitude,  i.  327 ;  conciliation  for 
America,  i.  329 ;  suing  for  peace, 
i.  331;  war  with  France,  i.  333; 
his  private  affairs,  i.  335;  "in  at- 
tendance of  my  Mama,"  i.  336; 
d'Estaing's  fleet,  i.  337;  Keppel 
and  the  French  frigates,  i.  339, 
343  ;  Cosheath  Camp,  i.  340,  346  ; 
Brighton  unsuitable,  i.  345 ;  Paul 
Jones,  i.  347;  battle  of  Ushant, 
1.  349 ;  an  effort  of  friendship,  i. 
351 ;  advice  to  his  stepmother, 
i  352,  362 ;  prospect  of  a  place,  i. 
355  ;  Palliser  and  Keppel,  i.  356 ; 
his  plans  of  economy,  i.  359  ;  Par- 
liament and  the  Roman  Empire,, 
i.  361 ;  a  crestfallen  ministrj', 
i.  363 ;  at  work  on  his  second 
volume,  i.  365 ;  a  Lord  of  Trade, 
i.  366,  373 ;  disclaims  the  Historic 
of  Opposition,  i.  369;  his  Memoire 
Justijicatif,  i.  371  ;  Holroyd  for 
Coventry,  i.  375;  Rodney's  vic- 
tory, i.  376 ;  "  a  mighty  unrelent- 
ing tyrant,   called   the   Gout,"  i. 


414 


INDEX. 


377 ;  Gordon  Kiots,  i.  380 ;  his  two 
volumes  in  the  press,  i.  382 ;  his 
seat  uncertain,  i.  385;  another 
seat  itromised,  i.  387 ;  M.P.  for 
Lyniiugton,  i.  387,  400;  ii.  1;  de- 
fends his  conduct  in  Parliament,  i. 
389 ;  weary  of  political  life,  i.  391  ; 
the  Coventry  election,  i.  393 ; 
Holroyd  created  Lord  Sheffield,  i. 
395 ;  tlie  reception  given  to  his 
two  volumes,  i.  397 ;  his  annual 
Gout-tax,  i.  399 ;  his  house  at 
Brighton,  ii.  3 ;  French  and 
Spanish  ships  in  the  Channel,  ii. 
5 ;  Brighton  in  November,  ii.  7 ; 
William  Hayley,  ii.  8,  17  ;  his  ad- 
vice in  a  quarrel,  ii.  9 ;  noise  and 
nonsense;  of  Parliament,  ii.  11 ; 
fall  of  North's  ministry,  ii.  13  ;  his 
loss  of  office,  ii.  1-4  ;  Rockingham's 
death,  ii.  17 ;  Shelburne's  min- 
istry, ii.  19 ;  immersed  in  tlie 
Roman  Empire,  ii.  21 ;  liis  Hamp- 
ton Court  Villa,  ii.  23 ;  Lord 
Loughborough's  marriage,  ii.  24 ; 
relief  of  Gibraltar,  ii.  25;  enthu- 
siasm for  Sir  George  Eliott,  ii.  27  ; 
Pitt,  ii.  28;  Mrs.  Siddons,  ii.  29; 
the  dearth  of  news,  ii.  31 ;  Shel- 
bnrne  resigns,  ii.  33 ;  Coalition 
Ministry,  ii.  34 ;  his  view  of 
Euglisli  politics,  ii.  37 ;  proposes 
to  settle  abroad,  ii.  38  ;  Deyvcr- 
dun  offers  his  house,  ii.  41 ;  Lau- 
sanne society,  ii.  43;  his  grati- 
tude to  Deyverdun,  ii.  45 ;  his 
hesitation  to  accept,  ii.  47 ;  his 
friend  and  valet,  ii.  49 ;  hopes  of  a 
political  place,  ii.  51;  social  habits 
at  Lausanne,  ii.  52 ;  decides  to 
leave  England,  ii.  55;  plan  of 
joining  Deyverdun,  ii.  57  ;  his  de- 
parture necessary,  ii.  58 ;  his 
reasons,  ii.  61 ;  his  preparations, 
ii.  63  ;  farewell  to  Sheffield  Place, 
ii.  65  ;  the  Peace  of  Versailles,  ii. 
67;  his  departure  dclayid,  ii.  Oi' ; 
the  Sheffields'  kindness,  ii.  71 
1783-1794.  His  journey  through 
France,  ii.  73 ;  the  Abbe  Raynal, 
ii.  75 :  the  charms  of  Laus^anne,  ii. 
77 ;  a  pennon  for  Miss  Holroyd,  ii. 
79 ;  proud  of  Fox,  ii.  85 ;  North's 
insignificance,  ii.  87;  his  daily  life, 
ii.  189;  the  zeal  and  diligence  of 
Sbettield's  pen,  ii.  91 ;  sale  of  his 
Beat,  ii.  93 ;  a  factious  opposition, 
ii.  95;  arrival  of  Ids  booki^,  ii.  97; 
a  happy  winter,  ii.  99 ;  Parliament 
dissolved,   ii.    101 ;    a   free-spoken 


counsellor,  ii.  103 ;  English  friends, 
ii.  105 ;  the  ri  ign  of  sinecures 
over,  ii.  107;  his  house  and  garden, 
ii.  108;  his  hospitalities,  ii.  Ill; 
his  pccuniai-y  afiairs,  ii.  112  ;  a  list 
of  his  acquaintances,  ii.  115; 
Prince  Henry  of  Prussia  and 
Mdlle.  Necker,  ii.  117;  thoughts 
of  marriage,  ii.  118,  220;  loses 
Caplin,  ii.  119;  invites  the  Shef- 
fields, ii.  IVO ;  a  temperate  diet 
and  an  easy  mind,  ii.  123 ;  his  estab- 
lishment at  Lausanne,  ii.  125  ;  Pitt 
a  favourite  abroid,  ii.  127;  a  j'oung 
man  at  fifty,  ii.  129;  changes  in 
English  politics,  ii.  131 ;  his  re- 
ported death,  ii.  132;  a  curious 
question  of  philosophy,  ii.  133;  his 
countrymen  at  Lausanne,  ii.  135; 
Achilles  Pitt  and  Hector  Fox,  ii. 
136;  his  History  delayed,  ii.  139; 
his  health  improved,  ii.  141 : 
"glories  of  the  landskip,"  ii.  142  ; 
Aunt  Kitty's  death,  ii.  144 ;  books 
longer  in  making  than  puddings, 
ii.  147 ;  hopcN  to  vi:^it  England,  ii. 
149, 155 ;  buildiuiC  a  great  book,  ii. 
151 ;  a  citizen  of  the  world,  ii.  153 ; 
his  arrival  in  London,  ii.  157 ;  the 
two  Mr.  Gibbons,  ii.  159 ;  visits 
his  stepmother,  ii.  161 ;  a  miserable 
cripple,  ii.  163 ;  an  unlucky  check, 
ii.  165  :  an  act  of  duty  at  I5ath,  ii. 
167;  his  work  and  friends,  ii.  169  ; 
the  horrors  of  shopping  and  pack- 
ing, ii.  171;  dines  with  Warren 
Hastings,  ii.  173;  sale  of  Beriton, 
ii.  175,  189;  back  at  Lausanne,  ii. 
177;  Deyverdun  ill,  ii.  179,  187; 
George  III.  insane,  ii.  181 ; 
Hugonin  dead,  ii.  183 ;  Hngonin's 
deceit,  ii.  185  ;  George  III.  re- 
covers, ii.  191 ;  "the  Saint  ripe  for 
heaven,"  ii.  193 ;  Deyverdun's 
death,  ii.  194,  207;  "tierce  and 
erect,  a  free  master,"  ii.  197;  n 
defect  in  Beriton  title,  ii.  199  ;  his 
idea  of  adopting  Charlotte  Porten, 
ii.  201 ;  a  life  interest  in  Deyver- 
dun's house,  ii.  203;  the  authority 
of  Blackstone,  ii.  205 ;  Deyverdun's 
loss  irreparable,  ii.  207;  Fiance's 
opportunity,  ii.  209;  French  exiles 
at  Lausanne,  ii.  210  ;  "  dirty  land 
and  vile  money,"  ii.  213 ;  legal 
forms  hent  fit  lawyers,  ii.  215"; 
Sheffield  M.P.  for  Bristol,  ii.  216; 
Aunt  Hester's  will,  ii.  218,  225  ;  a 
comfortless  state,  ii.  221;  his 
Madeira  almost  exhausted,  ii.  223  ; 


INDEX. 


415 


Bruco's  Traveh,  ii.  2'JCi :  M.  Laiiper, 
ii.  227;  history  of  tli(^  Guelphs,  ii. 
229  ;  servitude  to  lawyers,  li.  231 ; 
.seriously  ill,  ii.   2H;{ ;  an  annuity 
lor  Newhaveu,  ii.  2'Sr>,  240 ;  Burke's 
Reflections,  ii.  287  ;  Corn  Law  and 
Slave    Trade,    ii.    239;   a  bargain 
with  the  Shedields,  ii.  243  ;  snug- 
ness  of  his  aft'airs,  ii.  245  ;  danger 
of  Russian  war,  ii.  247 ;  effects  of 
French  Revolution,  ii.  249 ;  Burke 
u  rational  madman,  ii.  2r)l ;  Shef- 
field   an    anti-democrat,    ii.  253 ; 
fiight  and  arrest  of  Louis  XVL,  ii. 
255,  28t>;  the  crisis  in   Paris,   ii. 
257  ;  Sheffield  at  the  Jacobins,  ii. 
259 :  safe  in  the  land  of  liberty,  ii. 
261 ;   Switzrriand's  strange  charm, 
ii.      263 ;     Coblentz     and     white 
cockades,   ii.  265;     the   sights  of 
Brussels,  ii.  267;  military  forces  on 
French  frontier,  ii.  269;  the  Pil- 
nitz  meeting,  ii.  271 ;  a  distressful 
voyage,  ii.  273 ;  Lally,  ii.  274 ;  the 
demon  of  procrastination,  ii.  277  ; 
peace  or  war  in  Europe  ?  ii.    279 ; 
an  amazing  push  of  remorse,  ii.  281 ; 
Maria's    capacity,   ii.   283 ;    Lally 
Tollendal,    ii.    284;    the   hideous 
plague  in  France,  ii.  287;  Massa 
King  Wilborforce,  ii.  289 ;  a  month 
with  the  Neckers,  ii.  291 ;  Jacques 
Necker,  ii.  292 ;    the  march  of  the 
Marscillais,  ii.  293;  an  asylum  at 
Berne,  295;    democratic    jirogress 
in  England,  ii.  297  ;  Gallic  wolves 
prowl  round  Geneva,  ii.  299 ;    the 
destiny  of  his  library,  ii.  301 ;  his 
Tabby     apprehensions,     ii.      303; 
Opposition    and    Government,    ii. 
30.5;       the     attempted     Pitt-Fox 
union,  ii.  306 ;  taint  of  democracy, 
ii.    309;    Brunswick's    march    on 
Paris,   ii.    311 ;    every    day    more 
sedentary,    ii.    313;     French    in- 
vasion of  Savoy,  ii.  314 ;  Geneva 
threatened,  ii.  316;   prepared    for 
flight,  ii.  319 ;  the  Irish  at  their 
old  tricks,  ii.   321 ;  the  liberty  of 
murdering  defenceless  prisoners,  ii. 
323;  Sheffield's  emigrants, ii.  324; 
Brunswick's  strange  retreat,  ii.  326, 
346;    occupants    of  the   iiotel   in 
Downing     Street,     ii.     329;     the 
Geneva  flea   and   the    Leviathan 
France,  ii.  331  ;  the  Gallic  dogs' 
day,  ii.  333 ;  neither  a  monster,  nor 
a  statue,  ii.  335;    Severy's    state 
hopeless,   ii.   336;   France's  cruel 
fate,  ii.  337 ;  Archbishop  of  Aries' 


murder,     ii.     3.39-342;      common 
cause   against    the     Disturbers   of 
the  World,  ii.  343 ;  Montesquieu's 
desertion,  ii.  345 ;  Nccker's  defence 
of  tlie  king,  ii.  347;    associations 
in   London,  ii.  349,  353 ;  "  Is  Fox 
niad?"ii.  350;  Sheffield's  speech,  ii. 
3.53;    the   E(jalise.urs,  ii.  355;  tlie 
great  question  of  peace  and  war, 
ii.  358;  tlie  Memoirs  must  be  post- 
poned, ii.  359 ;  a  word  or  two  of 
Parliamentary  and  pecuniary  con- 
cerns, ii.  362  ;  Duke  of  Portliind 
and  Fox,  ii.  363,  367;  Louis  XVI. 
condemned   to   death,   ii.   365;    a 
miserable  Frenchman,  ii.  367  ;  poor 
do  Severy  is  no  more,  ii.  369 ;  his 
letter  of  congratulations  to  Lough- 
borough,   ii.   372;    the    Pays    de 
Vaud,  ii.  373 ;  Madame  de  Staiil  at 
Dorking,  ii.  375 ;  a  pleasant  dinner- 
party in  Downing  Street,  ii.  377 ; 
Lady  Sheffield's  death,  ii.  379  ;  the 
cannon  of  the  siege  of  Mayence, 
ii.  382 ;  safe,  well,  and  happy  in 
London,  ii.  384;  intends   to   visit 
Bath,  ii.  387,  389  ;  Lord  Hervey's 
Memorial,  ii.  388 ;  a  tete-u-tete  of 
eight  or  nine  hours  daily,  ii.  390  ; 
at   Althorpe,    ii.    391 ;    a   serious 
complaint,    ii.   393 ;    hopes   of    a 
radical  cure,  ii.  395 ;  in  darkness 
about  Lord  Howe,  ii.  397 ;  reaches 
St.  James's    Street   half-dead,  ii. 
400  ;  account  of  his  last  moments, 
ii.  400,  401 

Gibbon,  Miss  Hester  (Gibbon's  aunt), 
"the  Northamptonshire  Saint,"  i. 
7,  134,  244,  295,  398 ;  ii.  91,  18.\ 
187,  190,  193,  218,  222,  225;  Gib- 
bon's letters  to,  i   15,  121 

Gibbon,  Jolin,  Biuemantle  Pur- 
suivant at  Arms,  ii.  162 

Gibraltiir,  relieved  by  Rodney,  i. 
276;  by  Howe,  ii.  19,  25,  27;  de- 
fended by  Lord  Heathlield,  ii.  25 

Gideon,  Sir  Sampson  (Lord  Eurdley), 
i.  225,  332 ;  ii.  216 

Gilbert,  Mr.,  of  Lewes,  i.  244,  248, 
295 

Gilbert,  Bett,  i.  7 

Gilliers,  Baron  de,  ii.  330,  377 

Glenbervie,  Lord  (Sylvester  Doug- 
las), ii.  180 

Gloucester,  Duchess  of,  i.  173 

*Glouc(  ster,  Duke  of,  i.  131  ;  his 
clandestine  miirriag  ,  i.  146 ;  on 
Decline  and  Fall.  i.  396 

Glynn.  Serjeant,  the  advocate  ot 
Wilkes,  i.  90 


416 


INDEX. 


Clodolpliin,  Lord,  i.  172 

Goldsmith,  Oliver,  Gibbon's  friend- 

Hhip  with,  i.  191,202;  bis  "Cap- 

tain-in-Lace,"   i.   207 ;    quotation 

from  his  Retaliation,  i,  ^lO 
*Gonchon,  M.,  ii.  ;!52 
Gordon,  Ducliess  of,  ii.  157,  164,  168 
Gordon,  Lord  Geor«e,  i.  376 ;  "  No 

Popery "  riots,  i.  380 ;  sent  to  the 

Tower,  i.  382 
Gordon  lliots,  the,  i.  381 
Gosling,  the  banker,  i.  1)4,  126,166- 

168.332:  ii.  110.281 
Gosling's  mortgage,  i.  94,  116,  126, 

166,  187 
Gould,  Colonel,  i.  114,  150.  274 
Gould,  Mrs.,i.  114,  15'J,  272,  274;  ii. 

386 
Gouvernet,   Comte  de   la   Tour-<lu- 

Pin,  ii.  329 
Gower,    Lord,   i.   148 ;    ii.   SO,  255, 

311,  360 
*Graftou,  Ducliess  of,  i.  27 
Grafton,  Dulce  of,  i.  26,  90,  112,  278, 

377;  Lord  Privy  Seal,  ii.  13 
*Grammont,  Due  de  (de  Guiche),  i. 

89;  11,203,265,266 
*Granby,  Marquis  of,  i.  192 
Grand,  M.,  baiiker  at  Lausanne,  i.  4, 

61,  74,  81 
Grand,  Mdlle.  Nanette.     See  PrevOt, 

Madame 
(irantham.  Lord,  ii.  19 
*GraB8e,  Comte  de,  ii.  16 
Graves,  Admiral  Lord,  i.  384 
Gray,  Booth,  i.  254,  264 
Grenville  Act,  the,  i.  233 
*Grenville  Correspondenee,  i.  44 
*Grenville,  George,  i.   45,   85,  233, 

243 
Grenville,  James,  ii.  19,  93 
Grenville,  Lord,  ii.  362,  306 
*Greville,  Hon.  Charles,  i.  366 
Grey,  Mr.,  and  the  "  Friends  of  the 

People "   resolution,  ii.  297,   305, 

320 
Grey,  Sir    Charles  (afterwards    1st 

Earl),  ii.  396 
Grey,  Sir  W.  de.     See  WaLingli.'tm, 

Lord 
*Grey,  Thomas  de,  i.  366 
*Grimaldi,  Marquis  Jeronymo,  i.  30 
Grimstone,  Mrs.,  ii.  339 
(Trosvenor,  Lady,  i.  149 
<Trosvenor,  Lord,  i.  82,  149 
Guiche,   Due    de.     See    Grammont, 

Due  de 
Guilford,  Ist  Lord,  ii.  86,  164,  238 
Guilford,   2nd    Lord.      See    North, 

Lord 


Guines,  Due  de,  ii.  210 

Guise,Sir  AVilliam  (Gibbon's  iutirnat& 

friend),  i.  40,  50,  ry6,  61,  63,  79,  80, 

82,  87,  195 
Gunning,  Sir  Eolwrf,  British  Envoy 

at  Petersburg,  i.  270 
*Gustavu.s  TIL,  King  ol'  Sweden,  iL 

279 


1£ 


Hague,  the,  Ciibbou  at,  i.  15 
*Hailes,  Daniel,  ii.  86 
'■Hales,  Sir  Philip,  i.  250 
Hall,  James,  i.  26 
*Hallifnx,  Sir  Thomas,  i.  393 
*Hamilton,  Einrim,  Lady,  i.  74,  214 
*l:Iamilton,  Lord  Archibald,  i.  148 
Hamilton,     Sir     William,     British 

Minister  at  Naples,  i.  74 
Hamilton,  William  Gerard  ("  Single- 
Speech  "),  i.  343;  ii.  21,  31,  396 
Hammersley's  Bank,  ii.  303 
Hamond,  Sir  Andrew  Snape,  R.N., 

ii.  81,  93 
Hampden,  Jjord,  ii.  135 
Hampshire  Militia,  i.  25, 109 ;  Gibbon 

major    in,   i.    51 ;    colonel,  i.   87  ; 

'■  father  "  of,  i.  346 
Hunger,  William  (Lord  Colerainc),  i. 

146,  148,  310 
Hanley,  Mrs.,  ii.  159 
Harbord,  Hon.  Harbord  (afterward* 

Lord  Suffield),  i.  250,  252 
Harcour),  Earl  of,  i.  9 
Harcourt,  Mr.,  i,  232,  233 
Hardy,  Sir  Charles,  i.  347;  ii.  72 
Hare,    James,   politician    and     wit 

("  the  Haro  and  many  Friends  "), 

i.  201 
Harris,    John,    Lcnborough    Estate 

Agent,  i.  95,  127,  165,  167,  170;  ii. 

104 
Harrison,    John     Butler,    Gibbons 

opinion  of,  i.  27 
Harrison,  Mrs.,  i.  87 
Hartley,  David,  M.P.  for  Kiugston- 

upon-Hull,  i.  240 
Harvey,  Stephen,  i.  95 
Hastings,  Marquis  of.  ii.  396 
Hastings,  Warren,  i.  209, 349 ;  Gover- 
nor-General of  India,  ii.  26,  85: 

his  trial,   ii.    172;   Gibbon   dines 

with,  ii.  173 
*Hawkins,  Sir  CiBsar,  ii.  393 
Hayes,  Mrs.,  i.  21 
Hayley,  Mrs.,  i.  399;  ii.  11,  14 
*Hayley,  Thomas,  ii,  17 


>. 


INDEX. 


•ir 


M;i.yley,  William,  i.  .Wi ;  ii.  S,  1G2 ; 

Ilia  Esmy  on  Epic  Poetry,  etc.,  ii. 

17,21 
*Hayti,  iadepcndenco  of,  ii.  28i) 
*Hazlitt,  on  Tlioa.  Amory,  i.  189 
lleatbfield,  Ailmiral   Lord,  his   de- 
fence of  Gibraltar,  ii.  25,  27;  lii« 

Sussex  estate,  ii.  240 
li»?berdeu,   Dr.   William,    called   by 

Dr.    Johnson    "  Ultimus    Roman- 

orum,"  i.  8.3 
Ilelvetius,  Claude  Adrien,  author  of 

De  VE^prit,  i.  29 
=''He'naiilt,  President,  i.  312 
Henley,  Lord.   See  Northington,  Lord 
'"Henry,  Robert,  ii.  28 
Herbtrt,  Lady  Charlotte,  ii.  10(5 
''Herbert,  General  the  lion.  W.,  ii. 

37.5 
Herefordshire  Militia,  and  the  Bristol 

riots,  ii.  390 
"^Hertford,  Lord,  i.  190  ;  ii.  32 ;  inter- 
dicts Footo's  Tlie  Capuchin,  i.  20,") 
Hervey,  Lady  ("Molly  Lepel"),  i. 

21,  29 
Hervey,  Lady  Elizabeth.   See  Foster, 

Lady  Elizabeth 
*Hervey,  Bishop  (of  Deny),  ii.  388 
*Hervey,    Lord,    the    "Sporus"    of 

Pope's  Prologue  to  the  Satires,  i.  21 
Hervey,  John  Augustus,  Lord,  Ain- 

bassadov  at  Florence,  ii.  388 
Hesse,  Landgrave  of,  i.  272,  277 
Jlesse-Rheinfels-Rotiienburg,  Prince 

Charles  of,  ii.  332 
*Mill,  Dr.  G.  B.,  i.  83,  273 
Jlill,  Sir  Roi;er,  i.  139 ;  ii.  4 
Hillsborough,     Lord     (Marquis     of 

Downshire),  ii.  5 
Hobart,  Harry,  i.  212 
Hobson,  Mrs.  (Miss  Comarque   and 

Ma-lame  de  Bavoie),  i.  82,  83,  220 
"Holcroft,  Tliomas,  ii.  154 
Holland,   Lady   (Lady    Mary    Fitz- 

patrick),  i.  247 
Holland,  Lady  (Elizabeth  Vassall), 

ii.  257 
Holland,  Ist  Lord,  i.  198 
Holland,  2nd  Lord  (Stephen  Fox), 

i.  198,  247 
♦Holland,  3rd  Lord,  ii.  257 
Holland,  Gibbon  in,  i.  15;  fears  of 

war  with,  i.  348,  353;    war  witli 

France,  ii.  362  ;   "  abject  state  "  of, 

ii.  376 
^Holland's    Memoirs    of   the     Whig 

Party  quoted,  ii.  388 
Holmes,  Mayor  of  Newtown,  i.  88 
*Holmes,  Sir  Robert,  i.  89 
Holmet,  i.  89 

VOL.  II, 


Holroyd,  Hon.  iSlarin  (afterwards 
Lady  Stanhsy  of  Ahbrley),  linr 
letters  to  (iibbon,  ii.  157,  167,  216 
215,  271,  273,  322,  340,  353  ;  Gib^ 
bon's  letters  to,  ii.  259-26G,  337 

Holroyd,  Isaac,  i.  ISO,  237 

Holroyd,  J.  B.     See  Sheffield,  Lord 

Holroyd,  John  William,  i.  100 

Holroyd,  :\Iis8  Sarah  M.,  i.  ISO,  237, 
336,  342,  345 

Holroyd,  j\Irs.  (Sheffield's  mother). 
Gibbon's  letter  to,  i.  160 

Home,  John,  author  of  Douqlas,  etc., 
i.  202  •' 

*Hood,  Lord,  ii.  179 

llorneck.  Captain  Charles,  i.  207 

Horneck,  Mrs.,  i.  207 

'^Ilornsby,  William,  President  of 
Bombay  Council,  ii.  85 

Horton,  Mrs.  (Duchess  of  Cumber- 
land), i.  146,  150,  154 

*Hotham,  Commodore,  i.  349 

Howe,  Admiral  Lord,  i.  2S3,  291. 
382;  the  relief  of  Gibraltar,  ii.  19. 
25,  27;  First  Lord  of  Admiralty, 
ii.  S6  ;  dockyards  shut  to  strangers, 
ii.  173;  his  search  for  the  French 
fleet,  ii.  397 

Howe,  General  Sir  William,  liis  cam- 
paign in  America,  i.  249,  287,  300, 
303;  his  American  mission,  i.  2S3, 
332;  occupies  New  York,  i.  290; 
captures  Fort  William,  i.  29S; 
captures  Philadelphia,  i.  323 

Howe,  Thomas,  i.  91 

Hugonin,  Francis,  i.  7,  128,  157,  16.3- 
165,  19t;.  199,  213.  246,  277,  344, 
348;   ii.  1.38, 183,  185,  234 

Hume,  David,  i.  8,  22 ;  referred  to  in 
Mason's  satire,  i.  190;  liis  essay 
on  Polygamy  and  Divorces,  i.  202 ; 
his  Philomphical  Worhs  quoted, 
i.  305;  Parisian  civilities  to,  i. 
307 

Hume,  Sir  Abraham,  i.  201,  255, 
261 

Hunter,  Dr.  Jolm,  his  Lectures  on 
Anatomy  attended  by  Gibbon,  i. 
302,  304,  307 

Huntingtower,  Lord.  i.  2 

*Hutche6on,  Archibald,  M.P.  for 
Hastings,  i.  398 

Hutcheson,  Mrs.,  i.  398, 

Hutchinson,  Governor  Thomas,  His- 
tory of  the  Colony  of  Massachusetts, 
i.  206,  340,  243,  247,  257,  258 

Hvder,  Ali.  i.  ;309;  ii.  26 

*Hylton,  Sir  R.,  i.  Ill 


2  K 


418 


INDEX. 


*Impey,  Sir  Elijah,  ii.  86 
India,  i.  349,  350,  357  ;  ii.  280 
Ireland,  debates  on,  i.  338,  373;   ii. 
115,  137  ;    effects  of  French  Revo- 
lution on,  ii.  320 ;  Roman  Catliolics 
V.  Protestants,  ii.  320,  343,  350 
Irish  Parliament,  i.  19G 
*Irnham,  Lord  (Earl  of  Carhampton), 

i.  14tJ 
*Irvine,  Lord,  i.  247 
Italy,  Gibbon's  tour  in,  i.  64 


Jackson,  Richard,  ii.  10 

*Jacobin  Club,  the,  ii.  305 

Jamaica,  Light  Dragoons  for,  ii.  289 

Jenkinson,  Charles.  See  Liverpool, 
Lord 

Jenyns,  Soame,  i.  366,  391 ;  ii.  94 

*Jephson,  Robert,  author  of  tragedy 
of  Braganza,  i.  252 

"  John  the  Painter  "  (Aitken),  i.  301 

Johnson,  Dr.  Samuel,  on  Lord  Boling- 
broke,  i.  S .-  his  description  of  Dr. 
Maty,  i.  18 ;  on  courts  and  camps, 
i.  25;  Lady  Diana  Beauclerk,  i. 
82;  Dr.  Heberden,  i.  83;  on  Sir 
John  Dalrymple's  style,  i.  131 ; 
Goldsmith's  epitnph,  i.  202 ;  George 
Oolman  on,  i.  213 ;  his  publishers, 
i.  222;  Taxation  no  Tyranni/, 
i.  271 ;  his  friend  Lord  Eliot,  i. 
273;  "Single-Speech"  Hamilton, 
i.  843 ;  and  Abbe'Raynal,  ii.  75 

Johnson,  Sir  William,  i.  291 

♦Johnston,  Governor  George,  i.  308, 
332 

JoUiffe,  William,  M.P.  for  Peters- 
field,  i.  Ill,  153,  171,  247,  340, 
366 

Jones,  Paul,  i.  317,  347 

Joseph  II.,  Emperor,  i.  158,  313;  ii. 
137 

*Jourdan  Coupe-Tete,  il  293 

*Journal,  Gibbon's,  quoted,  i.  27, 35, 
40,  50,  57,  84 

.Junius,  Letters  of,  i.  108,  146;  ii. 
22,92 


Keene,  Colonel,  i.  302 
*Kellerman,  F.  C.  de,  ii.  319 
*Kelly,   Hugh,   School  of  Wives,  i. 
199 


Keppel,  Admiral  Lord,  and  the- 
French  fleet,  i.  339,  340,  343; 
Palliser's  charges  against,  i.  349, 
356,  357;  M.P.  for  Surrey,  i.  388  ; 
First  Lord  of  Admiralty,  ii.  13, 
18,34 

Keppel,  General,  i.  346 

Kimber,  Captain  John,  ii.  295 

*Kingsbergen,  Admiral,  ii.  247 

"'Kingston,  Duchess  of,  i.  265,  281 

*Kingston,  Duke  of,  i.  265 

""Kippis,  Dr.,  ii.  305 

Knight,  Gowin,  i.  18 

*Kolbel,  Baron,  i.  319 

■"Korff,  Baroness  de,  ii.  254 


*Laborde.  M.  de,  ii.  329 

La  Brunette,  Fort,  i.  59 

Laclos,  Francois  C.  de,  ii.  258 

*Lacretelle,  ii.  326 

*Ladbroke,  Sir  R.,  i.  201 

La  Fayette,  Marquis  de,  i.  305;  ii. 
311,324,329 

Lake,  Miss,  Gibbon's  landlady  in  St. 
James's  Place,  i.  82,  83 

Lally,  Comtesse.  ii.  274,  284 

Lally-Tollendal,  M.,  ii.  19,  211  ; 
Burke's  opinion  of,  ii.  274;  Gib- 
bon's opinion  of,  ii.  284,  337 ;  his 
Strafford,  ii.  284;  at  English 
Court,  ii.  285  ;  his  opinion  of  Lord 
North,  ii.  287 ;  his  escape  to  Eng- 
land, ii.  311;  at  Sheffield  Place, 
ii.  322,  324;  his  Songed'un  Avglois- 
and  Plaidoyer  four  Louis  XV I. , 
ii.  375  ;  Sheffield's  guest  in  Down- 
ing Street,  ii.  377 

*Lamballe,  Prince  de,  ii.  312 

Lamballe,  Princesse  de,  ii.  312,  352 

La  Motte,  i.  34  ;  li.  283,  293,  328 

La  Motte  Piquet,  i.  334 

*LaDgara,  Admiral,  i.  37G 

Langer,  M.,  ii.  227 

Langlois,  Benjamin,  M.P.  for  St. 
Geimains,  i.  391 

Lansdowne,  Lord,  ii.  350 

Lascelles,  Mr.,  i.  140,  191,  216,  240 

Lauderdale,  Lord,  ii.  297,  320 

*Laudohn,  Field-Marsha],  i.  158 

Laurens,  Henry,  ii.  72 

Lausaime,  Gibbon  at,  i.  1-14,  37-55; 
ii.  74-157,  176-217,  219-223,  227, 
241,  246-252,  255,  277-282,  290, 
296,  308-319,  322,  325,  331-.340, 
345-348,  354-361,  369,  377-381 

*Lauzun,  Due  de  (Due  de  Biroa),  ii. 
290 


INDEX. 


419 


Lauzun,  Duchesae  de  (Ducbesse  dc 

Biron),  ii.  28'J,  :]24,  H33 
Luvington,  Lady,  i.  31!»,  ii'M 
Liivington,  Lord,  i.  819,  H^G  ;  ii.  214 
Law,  Rev.  William,   author  of  the 

Serions  Call,  i.  7,  :i;)8 ;  ii.  218 
Lee,  Arthur,  i.  334 
Lee,  Captain,  i.  8'J 
Lee,  (General,  i.  284.  302 
Lee,  Mrs.,  i.  12G,  184,  li^)9,  201,  208 
Leeds,  Duke  of,  ii.  247,  302,  327 
Leigh,  Mr.,  i.  27 
*Le  Maichant.  Sir  Denis,  i.  91 
Lenborough  Manor,  Gibbon's  Bucks 

estate,  i.  69,   18G,  384;  ii.  G4,  81, 

83,   9;^,   96,   112,   124.      See    also 

Lovegrove,  Mr. 
Lennox,  Lord  George  H.,  i.  225,  226, 

232 
Leopold  II.,  Emperor  of  Austria,  at 

Pilnitz,  ii.  271 ;  his  death,  ii.  279, 

292 
*Lepel,  General  Nicholas,  i.  21 
Lepcl,  Molly  (Lady  Hervey),  i.  21, 

29 
Le    Rebours,   Postmaster   at  Pont- 

arlier,  ii.  357,  361 
Lescure's  Correspondence  Secrete  sur 

Louis  XVI.,  etc.,  i.  314  ;   Vie  de  la 

Princesse  de  Lamhalle,  ii.  352 
Leasart,  Antoine  de,  Minister  of  In- 
terior and  Foreign  Affairs,  ii.  292 
Lessart,  M.  de,  Paris  banker,  ii.  94,  99 
Lethieullier,    Benjamin,     M.P.    for 

Andover,  i.  240,  247 
*Lethieullier,  Smart,  i.  240 
Levade,  M.,  ii.  268,  275,  339 
*Le'vi8,  Due  de,  ii.  266,  290 
Lewisham,  Lord,  ii.  86 
•Leycester,  Sir  Peter,  i.  90 
Liancourt,  Due  de  (Rochefoucault), 

ii.  324 
*Library,  Gibbon's,  its  fate,  ii.  300, 

301 
Lichfield,  Earl   of,  Jacobite  leader, 

i.  34 
Ligne,  Prince  de,  ii.  83,  137 
*Ligonier,  Lord,  i.  180 
Lincoln,  Lord,  i.  388 
Lisburn.  Lord.  i.  37(; 
Liskeard,  Gibbon  M.P.   for,  i.    229, 

234 
Liverpool,  Lord  (Charles  Jenkinson), 

i.  264 ;  Secretary  at  War,  349 ;  ii. 

2  ;  Gibbon's  host,  ii.  9 
Llanduir,  Bishop  of,  i.  240 
liOckwood,  Mr.,  i.  134 
*Loftus,  Rev.  Smyth,  i.  328 
^London  Eoening  Pod,  i.  130,  180 
*Long,  Dudley,  "i.  391 


Lonsdale,  Earl  of  (Sir  James  Low- 
thcr),  i.  82 

Loughborough,  Lord.  Sec  Rosslyn, 
Earl  of 

*Luui8  XV.,  i.  218 

Louis  XVL,  i.  218,  334  ;  ii.  204,  22G, 
252;  his  escape  and  recapture,  ii. 
254  et  seq.,  285,  286,  311,  324; 
declares  war  against  Francis 
Joseph,  ii.  279;  defended  by 
Manuel,  ii.  341 ;  his  murder,  ii. 
360,  365,  374 ;  England's  mourn- 
ing for,  ii.  374 ;  Lally's  Plaidoyer, 
ii.  37."'» 

Louis  XVIII.,  ii.  265 

*Louis  Philippe,  i.  326 

*Louvois,  Marquis  de,  ii.  211 

*Lovat,  Lord,  i.  2()4 

Lovegrove,  Mr.,  tenant  of  Len- 
borough, i.  186,  201,  205,  207,  210, 
235,  239,  261,  286 ;  ii.  84 

Lowther,  Sir  James  (Lord  Lonsdale), 
i.  82 

Lucan,  Earl  of,  ii.  135,  162,  392 

Lucan,  Lady,  ii.  400 

Lucca,  the  Opera  at,  i.  66 

*Luckner,  Baron  de,  ii.  269 

Luff,  Mr.,  i.  138, 167 

Luna,  Miguel  de,  i.  243 

Luttrell,  Colonel,  i.  91,  146,  247,  249 

♦Luxembourg,  Blare'chale  de,  ii.  289 

*lAiynes,  Madame  de,  i.  314 

Lvmington,  Gibbon  M.P.  for,  1.  387, 
400;  ii.  1 

Lyons,  Gibbon  at,  i.  77 

Lyttelton,  Lord,  i.  6it 

Lyttleton,  Hon.  William,  i.  273 


M 


Macartney,  Lord,  i.  220;  Governor 
of  Caribbee  Islands,  i.  369 

*Macaulay,  Lord,  on  Sheridan's 
knowledge  of  stage-effect,  ii.  172 

*Mackay,  member  of  Madras  Council, 
i.  362 

♦Mackenzie,  Hon.  Stuart,  i.  56 

Macpherson,  James,  author  of  Frag- 
ments of  Ancient  Poetry  collected  in 
the  Highlands,  etc.,  i.  202  ;  History 
of  Opposition,  i.  369 

IMadras  Council,  arrest  of  Lord  Pigot, 
i.  308,  362 

Malirattas  insurrection,  the,  i.  349, 
350 ;  peace  with.  ii.  26 

Maine,  Sir  William,  i.  240 

*Maldcn,  M.  de.  ii.  256 

Mallet,  Arabella.  Hee  Williams, 
Mrs. 


420 


INDEX. 


Mallet  (or  Mallocb),  David,  author 

of     tlie      ballad      William     and 

MargareU  i.    8,  283;   his   tragedy 

Eurydice,  i.  19 
Mallet,     Dorothea.       See     Celesia, 

Madame 
*Malletdu  Pan,  ii.  31S,  ;5'29 
Mallet,  Mrs.,  i.  31,  34,  31.'> 
Malmesbury,  James,  Earl  of,  il.  181  ; 

"  the  audacienx  Harris,"  ii.  300 ; 

on    Fox,  ii.  306 ;  Ids  Diaries  and 

Cor  respond  ence  quoted,  ii.  HuO,  363 
*Malmesbury,    Lady,   on    Duke    of 

Portland,   ii.   30G;    on   England's 

mourning  for  Louis  XVI.,  ii.  374 
Malouet,  Victor,   ii.   311,   324,   329, 

377 
Manchester,  Duke  of,  i.  151;  ii.  6';, 

82,  86 
Mann,  Sir  Horace,  i.  (J5 
Mansfield,    Lord,    Ptoyal     Marriage 

Bill.  i.  154  ;    Sayer's  alleged  plot, 

i.  272;     on  war  with   France,  i. 

339 ;  trial  of  members  of  Madras 

Council,  i.  362 
Mansfield,  2nd  Lord,  President   of 

Council  under  Pitt,  i.  333,  383 
IManuel.  Louis  Pierre,  ii.  311,  341 
Maret,  Hugues  B.  (Due  de  Bassano), 

ii.  367 
Maria  Theresa,  Emprtss  of  Austria, 

i.  394 
*Marie  Antoinette,  ii.  203,  285 ;  her 

letter  to  Comte  de  Fersen  quoted, 

ii.  292;  her  distrust  of  La  Fayette, 

ii.  329 
Marriage   Bill,   Eoyal,  i.   146,   151, 

154 
Marseillais.  march  of  the,  ii.  293 
Martin,     iSarauel,    his    duel     with 

Wilkes,  i.  oO,  51 
Marvell,  Andrew, i.  284 
^Mason's  satire,  An  Heroic  Epistle, 

etc.,  i.  190 
Masquerade,     the     Soho    (Carlisle 

House),  i.  131 
lilassacliusetta  Charter  Act,  i.  329, 

331 
Massey,  Miss,i.  118,  119 
Massey,  Mrs.,  i.  3.52 
*Mathews,  Henry,  Diarti  of  an  In- 
valid, ii.  40  ;    on  iate  of  C4ibbon'8 

library,  ii.  301 
JIatthews,  ?Ir.,  i.  200, 207,  23.5,  269 
Maty,  Dr.,  i.  18,  'iO;  quarrels  with 

Gibbon,  i.  21 
Mauduit,  Isaac,  author  of  Comidera- 

tions  on  the  Present  German  War, 

1.  240,  243,  247 
Maury,  Abbe,  ii.  252,  270 


Mayence,  siogo  of,  ii.  382 

Mavnard,  Mrs.,  ii.  271-273 

Mcimoth,  "William  ("Pliny"),  i.  326 

Meluncr,  Captain,  ii.  375 

Melville,  Lord.  See  Dundaa,  Hon. 
Henry 

^'e'lnoire  JuMificalif,  Gibbon's,  i.  371 

* M^inoires  Litt€raires  de  la  Grande. 
Bretagrie  pour  I' An  1767,  by  Gib- 
bon and  Deyverdun,  i.  82 

Mentrond,  M.,  ii.  267 

Mercier,Sebastiou,  author  of  Tableau 
de  Paris,  ii.  82,  115 

^Meredith,  Sir  W.,  i.  147 

Mesery,  M.  de,  i.  40 

Mf  sery,  Madame  de,  ii.  83 

*Michaud,  ii.  326 

*]Michelet,  ii.  75 

*Middleton,  Dr.,  i.  83 

Midleton,  Lord,  i.  210,232,  236 

Milan,  Gibbon  at,  i.  60 

Milbank,  Sir  Pialph,  i.  344 

Militia  Bill,  New,  i.  366 

Militia,  calling  out  of  the,  ii.  348 

*Millar,  Andrew,  i.  222 

Miller,  Anna,  Lady,  Letters  from 
Italy  by  an  Englishwoman,  ii.  2 

Miller,  Sir  Jolin,"i.  159 

Miller,  Sir  John  Rigtrs,  ii.  2,  8 

Miller,  Sir  Tiiomas,  M.P.  tor  Lewes, 
i.  240,  247 

Milner,  Sir  William,  i.  19 

Milton,  Lord  (afterward-s  Earl  of 
Dorchester),  i.  139 ;  ii.  350 

'■■Ministerial  Club,  the,  i.  84 

*Minto,  Earl  of,  ii.  25 

Mirabeau,  Marquis  de,  i.  35;  his 
La  Monarchie  Prussienne,  ii.  192 ; 
a  king's  dowry,  ii.  203  ;  his  "  corps," 
ii.  269;  and M.de  Narbonne,ii.  292; 
his  description  of  Lord  Malmes- 
bury, ii.  300 

*  Miscellaneous  Worlis,  Gibbon's,  re- 
ferred to,  i.  20,  84,  375 ;  ii.  87,  400 

Moira,  Lord  (afterwards  Marquis  of 
Hastings),  ii.  396 

Molesworth,  Sir  J.,  i.  273 

Molyneux,  Lord,  ii.  262 

Monciel,  Terrier  de,  ii.  329 

Monkeith,  Mr.,  i.  168 

Mont  Cenis,  i.  55 

Montagny,  M.  de,  i.  61 ;  ii.  195,  20.3, 
229 

Montagu,  Lady  Mary  Wortley,  Gib- 
bon's opinions  of  her  Letters,  i.  53 

*Montagu,  Wortley,  i.  6 

='^]Montague,Mr8.,  i.  294 

*Montconseil,  Marquis  de,  ii.  211 

Montesquieu,  his  invasion  of  Savoy, 
ii.  314,  315-317,  322,  326;  escapes 


INDEX. 


121 


from  arrest,  ii.  345 ;  rcjiort  of  the 
Diplomatic  Committco  ou,  ii.6'4'> 

*Moiitgomeiy,  GiMienil,  i.  275 

Moiitolieu,  Mivdumo  do,  ii.  -ilJ,  151 

Montolieu,  M.  du,  ii.  13 

*Moore,  Dr.  John,  Archbisliop  of 
Canterbury,  ii.  'S'Jl 

*Moore's  Memoini  of  Sheridan,  ii.  172 

*Mordaunt,  Hon.  and  liev.  George, 
i.  19 

*More,  Hannah,  ii.  75 

^Morning  Chronicle  cited,  i.  212 ;  ii. 
91,  172,  351 

Morning  Post,  i.  291 

*]Mortimer-Tornaux,  his  Histoire  de 
la  Terreur  quoted,  ii.  352 

JMoss,  Mrs.,  ii.  167,  219,  295,300,321, 
331,  343 

*Mouchy.  Mare'chnl  do,  ii.  329 

*MouItou,  Pastor,  i.  41 

Mounier,  J.  Joseph,  ii.  211,  274 

Mountstuart,  Lord,  i.  5G 

Mousclikin  Pouschkin,  i.  227 

*Mouslier,  M.  de,  ii.  25G 

Mulgrave,  Lord,  i.  37G 

*Munro,  Sir  H(!otor,  i.  349 

*Murphy'8  Grecinn  Daughter,  ii.  29 

Murray,  Joim,  Resident  at  Venice, 
and  Ambassador  at  Constanti- 
nople, i.  7() 

♦Mutiny  Bill,  the,  ii.  95,  101 

♦Mysore,  third  war  in,  ii.  270 


N 


Naijeiraud,  ii.  367 

Napier,  Sir  Gerard,  i.  25 

Naples,  Gibbon  at,  i.  72 

*Napoleon  Bonaparte,  Fsmi  sitr 
V Histoire  de  la  Corse,  ii.  75 

Narbonne-Lura,  Comte  de,  ii.  292, 
347,  375 

Nassau,  Madame  de,  ii.  43,  2G6 

Nassau-Siogen,  Prime  of,  ii.  265 

National  Assembly,  the,  ii.  279, 2b'0; 
and  English  Nfmconformists,  ii. 
305 

Neeker,  Jacqnos,  i.41,  81  ;  Directeur 
Genc'rul,  i.  304  ;  ii.  1 15  ;  Mrs.  Mal- 
let's resentment,  i.  316;  "no  sign 
of  jealousy,"  i.  320  ;  his  Adminis- 
tration des  Finances,  ii.  113,  128; 
and  the  States-General,  ii.  181 ; 
ordered  to  quit  France,  ii.  204 ; 
Gibbon's  opinion  of,  ii.  237 ;  his 
treatise,  ii.  251 ;  North's  opinion 
of,  ii.  287;  Itis  defence  of  the 
king,  ii.  334,  347,  370 ;  warmly  at- 
tached  to  England,  ii.  373 


Ncckcr,  Louis  (Germanic,  M.  de),  i. 
291 

Neeker,  Madame  (Suzanne  Curchod), 
(iibbon  (iugaged  to,  i,  40,  41  ;  lior 
descripti(m  of  Gibbon's  visit,  i.  81 ; 
Gibbon's  lYicnidship  for,  i.  281,  283, 
306,  312;  Mrs.  Gibbon's  sus- 
picions, i.  30(» ;  at  Lausanne,  ii. 
Ill,  115,  116,  122;  Gibbon  at 
Geneva  with,  ii.  291 ;  Montes- 
quieu's 8urj)rise  visit  to,  ii.  345 

Neville,  Mr.,  i.  28,  30,  370 

Neio  MonlJiiij  Magazine,  ii.  301 

Now  River  Siiare,  the,  i.  100,  167, 
168,  335,  344;  ii.  190 

♦Newcastle,  Duke  of,  i.  50 

Newhaven  Estate  (Mecching  Farm), 
Gibbon's,   ii.  218,    235,   240,   242, 
^  244,  250 

Newton,  Mr.,  Gibbon's  solicitor,  i. 
127,  132,  169,  205-207,  227,  261, 
269;  ii.  113,  127.  139.  146 

NichoUs,  Mr.,  ii.  169,  171 

♦Nichols'  JAterary  Anecdotes  of  the 
Eighteenth  Centurij  quoted,  i.  7, 
263 

Nichols,  John,  ii.  301,  313,  314,  328 

Nicol,  George,  ii.  359,  374 

Nivcrnois,  Due  de,  i.  31,  314;  ii. 
375 

"  No  Popery  "  riots,  the,  i.  380-:}82 

♦Noailles,  Comte  Charles  de,  ii.  329 

Noailles,  Comtesse  Charles  de,  ii. 
329 

Noailles,  Marquis  de.  Freuc'i  Am- 
bassador, i.  305,  333 ;  ii.  259 

Noblemen  and  Gentlemen's  Catch 
Club,  The,  i.  200,  283 

Nonconformists  and  the  American 
w:ir,  i.  271 ;  relief  from  Sacra- 
mental test  demanded,  i.  373; 
their  sympathy  with  the  French 
Revolution,  ii.' 305,  320;  and  Pitt, 
ii.  305.  320 

*  North  Briton,  the,  i.  50,  91 

♦North,  Lady,  ii.  4 

♦North,  Lady  Anne,  ii.  198 

North,  Lord,  Prime  Minister,  i.  112  ; 
his  opponent  Barre',  i.  145:  his 
support  of  Church,  i.  148;  Royal 
Marriage  Bill,  i.  151 ;  his  somno- 
lence, i.  173;  proposed  reconstitu- 
tlon  of  E.  L  Co.,  i.  184;  Boston 
Port  Bill,  i.  206,  208 ;  conciliation 
for  America,  i.  250,  251,  271,  324, 
329,  331 ;  Gilibon's  opinion  of,  i. 
255  ;  ii.  82,  87 ;  his  illness,  i.  303 ; 
on  Irish  trade,  i.  33S,  373 ;  on 
Sussex  Militia,  i.  341  ;  his  win- 
dows    broken     by   moO,    i.    356; 


422 


INDEX. 


Madras  Council  prosecution,  i. 
362 ;  the  Militia  Bill,  i.  366 ; 
on  Burke's  Establishment  Bill 
speech,  1.  376  ;  a  seat  for  Gibbon, 
i.  387  ;  at  Bushey,  ii.  4  ;  Sheffield's 
guest  ill  Downing-  Street,  ii.  11 ; 
resigns  office,  ii.  12  ;  '•  balance  of 
the  country  in  his  hands,"  ii.  21 ; 
AVarden  of  Cinque  Ports,  ii.  23; 
Gibbon's  attachment  to,  ii.  28 ; 
union  with  Fox  and  Rockingham, 
ii.  32 ;  Secretary  of  State,  ii.  34  ; 
eulogised  in  preface  to  Decline  and 
Fall,  ii.  170;  succeeds  to  Earldom 
of  Guilford,  ii.  238  ;  bis  kindness 
to  Lally,  ii.  285,  287;  his  death, 
ii.  311 
North,  Major  Frank,  ii.  238.  244 
Northington,  Lord,  i.  142:   ii.  34,  60, 

135,  136 
^Northumberland,  Duke  of,  i.  82 
Northumberland    Militia     and     the 

Gordon  Riots,  i.  381 ;  ii.   2S 
Norton,  Sir  Fletcher  (Speaker),  i.  238 
*Notes  and  Queries,  ii.  301 
Nott,  Mr.,  ii.  262 
Nottingham,  Countess  of,  and  Lord 

Essex's  ring,  i.  276 
Nowell,  Rev.  Dr.,  i.  151 
Nugent,  Lieut. -Colonel,  i.  132 
Nuneham,  Lord  (Earl  of  Harcourt), 
i.  9 


O 


Ochs,  M.,  ii.  262 

*Oglander,  Sir  J.,  i.  90 

"■Oliver,  Alderman  Richard,  i.  130 

*01iver.      Lieut.-Governor     Andrew 

(Massachusetts),  i.  205,  240,  243 
Oliver,  Mr.,  i.  177 
Onslow,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  i.  83 
Orford,  Lord.    See  Walpole,  Horace 
Oriel,   Lord  (John  Foster),   i.   200, 

261,269;   ii.  136 
Origines  Guelfiae,  ii.  227 
Osborne,  Sir  George,  i.  91 
Ossory,  Earl  of,  i.  27,  274,  296,  333, 

375 
Ostervald,  Madame,  ii.  79 
Oude,  Sujah  Dowlah,  Nawab  of,  i. 

187,  209 


Pache,    Jean     Nicolas     (IMayor    of 

Paris),  ii.  368 
Palliser,     Sir    Hugh,     Ins    charges 

against   Admiral    Keppel,   i.   349, 

356,  357 


Palmer,  Mr.,  arbitrator  in  Lenborough 

dispute,  i.  205,  207 
Palmerston,  Lord  (father  of  Prime 
Minister),  i.  50 ;    member  of  the 
Catch  Club,  i.  283 

*Panin,  ]M.,  Russian  Foreign  Minis- 
ter, i.  270 

Pantheon,  the,  Tlie  Pantheon  Rupture, 
etc.,  i.  146  ;  Boodle's  masquerade 
at,  i.  212,  215 

Paris,  Gibbon  in,  i.  28-36,  311-320; 
Treaty  of,  i.  28 ;  Gibbon's  opinion 
of,  i.  317 

*Parker,  George  Lane,  i.  90 

Parsons,  Sir  William,  i.  204 

Pascal,  a  parallel  between  his  and 
Gibbon's  writings,  ii.  396 

Patton,  Miss  Dorothea.  See  Gibbon, 
Mrs.  (stepmother) 

Patton,  W.,  i.  30,  51,  169 

Pavillard,  M.,  Gibbon's  tutor,  etc.,  at 
Lausanne,  i.  1  et  seq.,  40 ;  his  de- 
scription of  Gibbon,  i.  2 

*Payba,  Abraham,  i.  6 

Payne,  Lady.     See  Lavington,  Lady 

Payne,  Sir  R.     See  Lavington,  Lord 

Peachy,  Ladv,  i.  162 

Peachy,  Sir  James,  i.  162,  234 

Pearson,  General  Sir  Richard,  i.  397 

Pechell,  Master  in  Chancery,  i.  102 

Pelham  of  Stanmer,  Lord  (Earl  of 
Chichester),  i.  200 

Pelham,  Thomas  (2nd  Earl  of  Chi- 
chester), ii.  60 

^Pembroke,  Earl  of,  ii.  375 

Pembroke,  Lady,  ii.  106,  110 

*PenthieAT:e,  Due  de,  i.  326 

*Percy'8  Iteliques  quoted,  i.  284 

*Peterborougn,  Earl  of,  i.  19 

Petier,  M.,  il  258 

*Petit  Manin,  ii.  351 

Philadelpliia,  capture  of,  i.  323 

Pigot,  Admiral,  i.  362 ;  ii.  16 

Pigot,  Lord,  Governor  of  Madras, 
i.  308,  362 

Pigott,  Charles,  The  Jockey  Club : 
or,  A  Sketch  of  the  Manners  of  the 
Aqe,  ii.  297 

Pilnitz,  meeting  of  King  of  Prussia 
and  Emperor  of  Austria  at,  ii. 
271 

Pitman,  Mr.,  i.  197,  267 

Pitt,  General,  i.  247 

Pitt,  George  (Lord  Rivers),  i.  54,  56 

*Pitt,  Lady  Harriet,  ii.  22 

Pitt,  Mrs.,  i.  247 

*Pitt,  Thomas,  M.P.  for  Old  Sarum, 
ii.  32 

Pitt,  William,  i.  45,  50;  and  the 
Stamp  Act,  i.  84,  85;  Chancellor 


INDEX. 


423 


■of  Exoliequor,  ii.  lil ;  Gibbon's 
opinion  of,  ii.  28,  127 ;  resigiia 
office,  ii.  34;  Prime  Jlinister.  ii. 
S6,  97 ;  suggested  union  with  Fox, 
ii.  92,  30G,  307,  330  ;  his  modera- 
tion, ii.  9G ;  his  silence,  ii.  97 ; 
waning  i)0])ularity,  ii.  136;  scheme 
for  Irish  trade,  ii.  137  ;  "the  Hero 
of  the  day,"  ii.  1G2 ;  Fox's  opinion 
•of,  ii.  180;  the  Kegency  Bill,  ii. 
181 ;  Ellis'  lines  in  liolliad  on, 
ii.  184 ;  a  desperate  plunge,  ii. 
■22G  ;  Corn  Regulation  Bill,  ii.  239, 
^•lo ;  on  war  with  Russia,  ii.  247, 
249;  French  view  of,  ii.  286; 
Abolition  of  Slave  Trade,  ii.  ;;^y-/  ; 
the  representative  system,  ii.  297  ; 
supported  by  Whigs,  ii.  30.1 ;  his 
rumoui'ed  Plan  of  Reform,  ii.  330 ; 
meets  Gibbon  at  Eden  Farm,  ii. 
398 
Poix,  Prince  de.  ii.  329,  377 
*Poix.  Princesse  de,  i.  314 ;  ii.  334 
Poland,  partition  of,  i.  1.18 
•Poland, StanislausPoniatowski,  King 

of,  i.  29,  1.18 
Polier,  Colonel,  ii.  43,  370 
Polignac,  Duchesse  de,  ii.  203 
*Polignac,  I'rince  de,  ii.  204 
"•*Pompadonr.  Madame  de,  i.  313 
Ponsonbj',  William,  Lord.  i.  65 
Porchester,  Lord  (afterwards  Earl  of 

Carnarvon),  ii.  37.1 
Porten,  James,  i.  2,  7,  101,  124 
Porten,     Lady    (Mary    Wibault),   i. 

220,  246,  2r)0 
Porten,    Miss     Catherine    (Gibbon's 
aunt),  i.  2,  17,  182,  220,  23"),  241, 
288,  304 ;  ii.  1,  18,  21,  69.  82,  91, 
121,  144;     Gibbon's  letters  to,  i. 
2,5 
Porten,  Miss  Charlotte,  ii.  201,  221 
Porten,  Miss  Judith.     i<ee  Gibbon, 

Mrs.  (mother) 
Porten,  Sir  Stanier  (Gibbon's  uncle), 
i.  177,  204,  220,  246,  250,  266 ;   ii. 
10,  201 
Porteous,    Dr.    Beilby    (Bishop    of 

London),  i.  285 
"*^Porter,  General,   M.P.    for    Stock- 
bridge,  i.  149 
Portland,  Duke  of,  i.  231  ;   ii.  IS,  34, 
305 ;    Lady  Malmesbury's  opinion 
of,  ii.  306' ;  Lord  Sheffield's  host  at 
Bulstrode,  ii.  329  ;   on  Fox's  eon- 
duct,  ii.  351 ;    supports  Alien  Bill, 
ii.  363  ;  enthralled  by  Fox,  ii.  367, 
368 
IPouschkin,  Mouschkin,  Russian  Am- 
bassador in  London,  i.  227 


*Powell,  Harcourt,  M.P.  for  New- 
town, i.  89 

Powell,  Mr.,  his  offer  to  pay  Fox's 
debts,  i.  198 

*Powney,  Portlock,  M.P.  for  Windsor, 
i.  388 

*Powvs,  M.P.  for  Northamptonshire, 
i.  331  ;  ii.  97 

Povntz,  Mrs.,  i.  33 

*Foyntz,  Stephen,  i.  33 

"^Pratt,  Lord  Chief  Justice,  i.  51 

Prevot,  Liiut  -Colonel,  i.  81 

PrevOt,  Madame,  i.  81 

Price,  Dr.  Richard,  ii.  210;  Chair- 
man of  the  Revolution  Society, 
ii.  30.5 

*Priestley,  Dr.,  ii.  210.  305 

Provence,  Comte  de  (Louis  XVIIL), 
ii.  265 

Prowse,  Mr.,  i.  33 

Prussia,  Prince  Henry  of,  ii.  5,  111, 
115-117 

Prussia,  King  Frederick  William  of, 
his  meeting  with  Emperor  of  Aus- 
tria at  Pilnitz,  ii.  271 

*PubUc  Advertiser,  Letters  of  Junius 
first  published  in,  i.  108 ;  Wood- 
fall  assistant  editor  of,  ii.  91 

PuUy,  Mademoiselle  de,  ii.  324 

Putney  Writings,  the,  i.  93,  106 


Q 


Quebec  Bill,  i.  256 


R 


*Rae,  Fraser,  ii.  172 

Ragobat   or  Ragonant  Rao,  i.  349, 

350 
Ranelagh  Gardens,  i.  89 
*Ranelagh,  Lord,  i.  89 
Ravaud,  Mrs.,  ii.  2,  8 
*Raven8Worth,  Lord,  i.  27 
Raynal,  Abbe,  ii.  75,  82,  111,  115 
*Reaux,  Taboureau  des,  i.  304 
*Reddiug,  Cvrus,  Recollections  of  the 

Author  of  Vatheh,  ii.  301 
"*Rees,  Dr.,  ii.  305 
*Reeves,  Mr.,  ii.  349 
*Kegency  Bill,  ii.  181,  306 
Remonstrance  Debate,  the,  i.  113 
Rennell,  Major  James,  ii,  212,  226 
Revenue  Returns  (1798),  ii.  276,  288 
Reynolds,    Sir    Joshua,    Queen    of 

Denmark's  portrait,  i.  143 ;  Colonel 

Barre''s,  i.  143;  Mrs.  Bonfoy's,  i. 

1S9 ;  Gibbon's  companion,  i.  1 91 ; 


424 


INDEX. 


ii.  24,  162  ;  Goldsiuitii's  epilai>li, 
i.  202 ;  a  friend  of  Eliot,  i.  273 ; 
Gibbon's  portrait,  i.364;  ii.  114; 
Lord  Sheffield's,  ii.  212,  214,  216; 
hia  death,  ii.  311 

Rhodes,  Mr.,  ii.  224 

Richardson,  Mr.,  and  S.  Saytr's 
anest.  i.  272 

Richmond,  Duke  of,  his  reception  of 
Gibbon  at  Paris  Embassy,  i.  ?>0, 
32,  35  ;  his  influence  in  Sussex,  i, 
225 ;  at  Madame  du  Deffand's,  i. 
312;  his  popularity  in  Paris, 
i.  316 ;  his  slight  skirmishes  with 
Gibbon,  i.  317;  in  Sussex  Militia, 
i.  336,  342;  Master-General  of 
Ordnance,  ii.  13,  18,  86,  374;  his 
house  burnt,  ii.  275;  on  French 
affairs,  ii.  286;  the  Pitt-Fox 
union,  ii.  307 ;  his  kindness  to 
Madame  de  Biron,  ii.  334 

Ridley,  Major,  i.  81 

♦Ridley,  Sir  Matthew,  i.  81 

*Ridottn  al  fresco,  i.  114,  124 

*Rivarol,  ii.  330 

Rivers,  Lord  (George  Pitt),  i.  54,  50 

Roach,  Miss,  i.  16 

Roberts,  Mr.,  i.  201 

Robertson,  William,  author  of  JHs- 
tory  of  Scotland,  etc.,  ii.  132,  190, 
292 

♦Robespierre,  ii.  250,  311  I 

Roche,  Captain  David,  his  quarrel   ! 
with  Lieut,  l^'erguson,  i.  209 

Rochefoucault-Liancourt,  Due  de,  ii 
324 

Rochford,  Lord,  i.  272 

Rockingham,  Lord,  ii.  13,  17 

Rodney,  Admiral  Sir  George,  i.  1)1 ;   i 
defeats  French  at  Cape  St.  Vin- 
cent, i.  376 ;  M.P.  for  Westminster, 
i.   388 ;   defeats  French   in  West 
Indies,  ii.  16 

♦Rogers,  John,  i.  69 

♦Rogers,  Thomas,  i.  393 

♦Roland.  Madame,  ii.  252 

Roman  Catholic  Relief  Rill  (Ireland), 
ii.  115,  320 

Romans  Club,  the,  i.  89 

Romanzov,  Count  Nioliolas,  ii.  206, 
209 

Romanzow.  Peter  A.,  223,  227 

Romberg,  Messrs.,  of  Ostend,  ii.  191 

Rome,  Gibbon  at,  i.  66-72,  74 

Ross,  Sir  John,  i.  369 

Rosset,  M..  ii.  2S3,  293,  328 

Rosslyn,  Earl  of  (Solicitor-General 
Wedderburn),  i.  173;  his  defence 
of  E.  I.  Co..  i.  185;  "artful  and 
able,"    i.     240 ;    his    speech    on 


America,  i.  249 ;  an  agreeable 
companion,  i.  302 ;  on  war  witli 
France,  i.  339;  Attorney-General, 
i.  347 ;  3Iadras  Council  prose- 
cution, i.  362 ;  his  kindness  to 
(Ubbon,  i.  365;  ii.  82,  91,  163;  on 
war  with  Spain,  i.  377 ;  L.  C.  J. 
of  Common  Pleas,  i.  387 ;  and 
Mrs.  Abington,  ii.  4 ;  "  places  are 
cheaper  than  mackerel,"  ii.  I'J ; 
his  second  marriage,  ii.  24;  his 
Irish  expedition,  ii.  30;  Lally  a 
favourite  of.  ii.  274.  285;  sug- 
gested Pitt- Fox  coalition,  ii.  300,, 
351 ;  Lord  Chancellor,  ii.  344,351, 
307,  368 ;  Gibbon's  letter  of  con- 
gratulations, ii.  372 ;  Gibbon's  last 
visit  to,  ii.  397 

Rotombeau,  ii.  351,  353 

Rous,  Lady,  i.  171, 173-175 

*Rous,  Sir  John,  i.  171 

Rousseau,  J.  J.,  i.  41;  ii.  261,  289; 
his  Lettres  de  la  Montague,  ii.  318 

♦Rowe's  Jane  Shore,  ii.  29 

♦Royal  Foresters,  the,  i.  87 

Royal  Marriage  Bill,  the,  i.  146, 151, 
1.54 

Royal  Society,  (libbon  a  member  of 
the,  ii,  187" 

*Ruml3old,  Sir  Thomas,  President 
of  Madras  Council,  ii.  85 

Rumford,  Count  of  (Sir  Benjamin. 
Thompson),  ii.  72 

Russell,  Lady.  i.  282 

Russell,  Sir  John,  i.  191,  190.  210, 
218,  282  ;  ii.  05 

Russia,  peace  signed  between  Ttirkey 
and,  i.  223 ;  probability  of  war 
with,  ii.  247  ;  rupture  with  France,., 
ii.  280 

Russian  mercenaries,  proposed  hire 
of,  i.  270,  272 

♦Rutland,  Duke  of,  ii.  86,  115 


S 


Sackville,  Lord  (Lord  George  Ger- 
main), i.  198,  226,  240,  24'.>,  290; 
Colonial    Secretary,    i.    278;    his- 
hope,  i.   290:  his  wife's  death,  i. 
328;    Fox's  censure,   i.   333;    his 
windows  broken  by  mob,  i.  350 
Sainsbury,  Mr.,  ii.  189,  199,  224,  233 
St.  Ciorge,  Madame  de,  ii.  43 
St.  Domingo,  insurrection  in  Island 

of,  ii.  280 
♦St.  John,  Sir  H.  Paulet,  i.  142 
"■St.  Omer,  Bishop  of,  ii.  266 
♦St.  Pierre,  Bemardiu  de,  ii.  75 


INDEX. 


425. 


Bt.  Vincent,  Earl,  ii.  l^OC, 

Saiiite  Croix,  Bigot  de,  ii.  o'JD 

Salins,  Princesse  de,  ii.  'J67 

Sandwich,  Lord,  i.  .9;56",  .5.57;  Lord  of 
the  Admiralty,  ii.  374 

*Sardinia,  Charles  Emanuel  III., 
King  of,  i.  58 ;  Victor  Aniadeus 
IIL,  King  of,  ii.  2(J5,  312,  315,  319 

*Saville,  Sir  George,  i.  375 

Savoy,  French  invasion  of,  ii.  314 

*Saxe-Teschen,  Duke  of,  ii.  137 

Sayer,  Stephen,  i.  272 

*Scawen,  Captain,  i.  207 

♦Scholl,  Dr ,  ii.  301 

Schomberg,  Count  de,  ii.  223 

*Scindiah,  i.  350 

Scott,  George,  i.  130,  372,  393 

Scott,  James,  Gibbon's  intimacy  wilh, 
i.  99-101 ;  his  death,  i.  177;  Gib- 
bon's letters  to,  1.  82,  92,  115-117, 
119,  12G,  159,  161 

*Scott,  Sir  Walter,  his  address  to 
George  Ellis  in  Marmion,  ii.  181 

Seeker,  Archbishop,  i.  285 

*Selwyn,  George,  his  Correspondejwe 
quoted,  i.  29,  58,  82,  3-13,  347,  350, 
388 

Septchenes,  Le  Clero  de,  translates 
part  of  Decline  and  Fall,  i.  290 

Serle's  Coftee-House,  i,  218 

Servan,  Joseph,  ii.  315,  332,  36S 

Severy,  Wilhelm  de,  ii.  1G2, 1C3, 105, 
172,  176,  199,  206.  242,  287,  303, 
316,  336,  358,  360,  309 

Severy,  Madame  de,  ii.  43,  178,  222, 
335,  309 

Se'vignc,  Madame  de,  i.  260 

Shakespeare,  Voltaire  protests 
against  French  translation  of,  i. 
294;  Boydell's  edition  of,  ii.  270 

Shanock,  Captain  Robert,  i.  20 

Sheffield,  Lady  (Miss  Abigail  AVay), 
i.  So,  139 ;  Gibbon's  letters  to,  i. 
241,  262.  301,  363,  ZSQ,  392;  ii.  .'>. 
11,  20,  05,  77,  115,  100,  108,  109, 
335;  her  death,  ii.  377 

Sheffield,  Lord  (J.  13.  Holmy.l), 
subjects  of  Gibbon's  letters  to : — 
Borromean  Islands,  i.  57 ;  amuse- 
ments at  Turin,  i.  58 ;  Gibb<m's 
snuff-box,  ibid. ;  Milan,  i.  GO  ;  the 
Neckers,  i.  81,  282.  305,  312 ;  ii. 
236,  251,  291,345;  Sheffield's  mar- 
riage, i.  85;  Gibbon's  father's  illness 
and deatli, i. 80.  115,117;  "Farmer 
Gibbon,"  i.  138;  Denmark  Kevo- 
lution,  i,  144,  146,  149  ;  "  Datcli," 
1.  145;  the  Pantheon,  i.  146,  215; 
Parliament  and  the  Thirty-nine 
Articles,  i.  147 ;  Royal  IMarriage 


Bill,  i.  151  ;  Dr.  Xoweli's  sormon, 
ibid.;  a  sprained  ankle,  i.  101  ; 
Beriton,  i.  104,  167,  196,  247,  344 : 
ii.  0,  182  et  seq.,  222,  227;  Loii- 
borough,  i.  165,  186,  205-207.  209. 
29(!,  332,  335;  ii.  04,  81.  83,  90, 
112,  124;  the  New  River  Share,  i. 
167,  108,  335,  344;  ii.  190;  Lord 
North's  somnolence,  i.  173 ;  ii.  24  ; 
the  E.  L  Co.,  i.  184,  180;  ii.  85; 
Hume:  W.  Robertson,  i.  190; 
Deyverdun,  i.  191,  255;  ii.  74-157 
passim,  170,  178,  191,  194;  Lord 
Holland  and  Fox's  debts,  i.  J  98; 
Britisli  Coftee-House,  i.  201 ;  Bos- 
ton Port  Bill,  i.  200,  208;  Mrs, 
Homeck,  i.  207 ;  Sujah  Dowlah,  i. 
209 ;  war  with  Spain,  i.  212,  344  ; 
Boodle's  masquerade  at  Pantheon, 
i.  215;  Godfrey  Clarke's  illness,  i. 
223,  227,  239  ;  Lord  Sheffield  and 
Sussex,  i.  225,  232;  Romanzow 
and  Pouschkin,  i.  227 ;  offer  of  a 
seat,  i.  229 ;  Sheffield's  withdrawal,. 
1.  233  ;  Gibl)on  M.P.  for  Liskeard, 
i.  2;;4 :  Clive's  deatli,  i.  238 ;  de- 
bate on  Address,  i.  240 ;  troubles 
with  America  (see  America);  de 
Luna's  book,  i.  243;  Decline  and 
Fall,  i.  203,  204,  277,  285,  361 ;  ii. 
151,  187;  Spain  and  Barbary,  i. 
205 ;  proposed  hire  of  Russian 
mercenaries,  i.  270 ;  Sayer's  arrest, 
i.  272 ;  Hon.  John  Damer.  1.  287 ; 
Howe's  proclamation,  i.  291 ;  La 
Fayette  in  Paris,  i.  305 ;  Lord 
Pigot,  i.  308,  302;  Madame  du 
Delfaud,  i.  312;  Paris  and  the 
Parisians,  i.  313,  317;  Duko  of 
Richmond,  i.  317 ;  Priiicesse  de 
Beauvau,  i.  ;J19  ;  (iibbon's  gout,  i 
321,  322;  ii.  103-105,  215,  221 
233 ;  Saratoga,  i.  324 ;  France  and 
Amei  ica,  i.  333 ;  the  French  fleet, 
1.  337,  338,  343,  347,  303;  Admiral 
Keppel,  i.  339;  Tickell's  Antici- 
pation, i.  348 ;  troubles  in  India,  i. 
349, 350,  357 ;  Palliser  and  Keppel, 
i.  350;  Militia  Bdl,  i.  300;  Ma- 
cartney captured  by  French,  i. 
369  ;  rumours  of  Civil  War,  i.  375 ; 
the  Sussex  protest,  ibid. ;  Burke's 
Establishment  Bill,  i.  370  ;  Rodney 
and  the  Spanish  fleet,  i.  370 ;  the 
Sussex  Dragoons,  i.  384;  ii.  23; 
Gibbon  M.P.  for  Lymington,  i. 
:>87 ;  the  Coventry  sheriff's,  i.  393 ; 
Mrs.  Abington,  ii.  4 ;  ships  to 
warn  West  Indian  fleet,  ii.  5 ;  li.st 
of   new  ministry  (1782).   ii.    19; 


426 


INDEX. 


Hyder  Ali,  ii.  19,  26  ;  Lord  Howe 
and  Gibraltar,  ii.  19,  20,  25 ;  Lord 
Loughborough's  marriage,  ii.  24 ; 
Fox  and  American  Independ- 
ence, ii.  25;  Lord  Sheffield's 
Coventry  speech,  ii.  32  ;  Gibbon's 
Lausanne  scheme,  ii.  56  et  seq. ; 
the  custody  of  Gibbon's  books,  ii. 
60,  62,  6.S,  149 ;  an  oild  peace,  ii. 
67 ;  the  Triumvirate  from  Dover 
to  Boulogne,  ii.  72;  Sheffield's 
Observations  on  the  Commerce  of 
the  American  States,  ii.  73, 82, 148  ; 
Gibbon  at  Lausanne,  ii.  74-157, 
176-252,  255,  277-380  ■passim; 
Abbe'  Rayual,  ii.  75,  82 ;  Lady  E. 
Foster,  ii.  81 ;  Fox  and  his  India  i 
Bills,  ii.  'S&\  Gibbon's  opinion  of 
North,  ii.  87  ;  Miss  Hester  Gibbon, 
"the  Northamptonshire  Saint," 
ii.  91,  185,  187,  190,  193 ;  Lough- 
borough's kindness,  ii.  91 ;  Miss 
Fritli's  scissors,  ii.  91, 97 ;  Coalition 
Cabinet,  ii.  92;  "prudence  and 
patriotism,"  ii.  93 ;  Gibbon's  liopes 
of  compensation,  ii.  101;  "Fox's 
Martyrs,"  ii.  102;  a  free-spoken 
counsellor,  ii.  103 ;  ways  and 
means,  ii.  104,  110,  113,  127,  138, 
146, 182-258  •passim,  280,  281,  290, 
300,  312, 360  ;  Mrs.  Fraser,  ii.  105 ; 
society  at  Lausanne,  ii.  Ill,  124, 
135 ;  Pitt's  popularity  on  Continent, 
ii.  127;  Sheffield's 06seri;fl<<on8,efc., 
on  Ireland,  ii.  128 ;  Gibbon's  re- 
ported death,  ii.  132 ;  Achilles 
Pitt  and  Hector  Fox,  ii.  136; 
Joseph  II.  and  Frederick  II.,  ii. 
137 ;  Aunt  Kitty's  death,  ii.  144 ; 
Lord  Auckland,  ii.  148  ;  Madame 
de  Crousaz,  ii.  154 ;  the  conscious 
shame  of  tlie  French,  ii.  162 ; 
Sheridan's  speech,  ii.  172  ;  twelve 
hours'  talk  with  Fox,  ii.  180 ; 
George  lll.'s  illness  and  recovery, 
ii.  181,  191 ;  Hugoniu's  death  and 
dishonesty,  ii.  183-185 ;  Gibbon's 
madeira,  ii.  190,  211,  214,  223, 
282,  327;  de  Montagny  and  the 
Swiss  transaction,  ii.  195, 202  ;  the 
Severy.s,  ii.  199,  206;  Sir  S. 
Porten's  death,  ii.  201 ;  low  spirits, 
ii.  202 :  the  French  Revolution,  ii. 
204,  209;  French  exiles  at  Lau- 
sanne, ii.  210,  222 ;  Gibbon's  lone- 
liness, ii.  215 ;  Reynolds'  portrait 
of  Sheffield,  ii.  216;  happy  though 
unmarried,  ii.  220  ;  Aunt  Hester's 
death,  ii.  222  ;  the  Newhavun  pro- 
perty, ii.  235,  242  ;  Burke's  French 


Revolution,  ii.  237 ;  Gibbon's  hospi- 
tality at  Lausanne,  ii.  242 ;  Louis 
XVI.,  ii.  255,  360 ;  the  Sheffields' 
visit  to  Lausanne,  ii.  277 ;  im- 
provements in  house  and  garden, 
ii.  278 ;  peace  or  war,  ii.  279 ;  the 
St.  Domingo  insurrection,  ii.  280 ; 
Madame  do  Stael  and  her  father, 
ii.  292 ;  march  of  the  Marseillais, 
ii.  293;  the  "Friends  of  the 
People,"  ii.  295;  Austrian  Croats 
and  Gallic  cannibals,  ii.  296 ;  fate 
of  the  Gibbonian  collection,  ii.  301 ; 
Brunswick's  march  on  Paris,  ii. 
311;  Madame  de  Lamballe's 
murder,  ii.  312;  French  invasion 
of  Savoy,  ii.  315 ;  Geneva  threat- 
ened, ii.  317,  322  ;  preparations  for 
liight,  ii.  319 ;  fears  of  siege  re- 
moved, ii.  326 ;  Mr.  Nichols,  ii. 
328  ;  treaty  with  Fiunce  delayed, 
ii.  331,  345;  the  Gallic  dogs,  ii. 
.■!33  ;  Montesquieu  and  the  Neckers, 
ii.  345 ;  Brunswick's  retreat,  ii. 
346 ;  Barthelemy,  ii.  355 ;  Geneva 
Revolution,  ii.  355,  370 ;  Fox 
deeply  tinged  with  democracy,  ii. 
356  ;  Gibbon's  proposed  return  to 
England,  ii.  357, 371, 379  ;  plan  of 
work,  ii.  359 ;  de  Severy's  death, 
ii.  369;  Lady  Sheffield's  death,  ii. 
377  ;  siege  of  Mayenee,  ii.  382 ; 
Lord  Hervey's  Memorial,  ii.  388  ; 
the  Althorpe  library,  ii.  392 ; 
Gibbon's  serious  illness,  ii.  393- 
395  ;  at  Eden  Farm,  ii.  398. 

His  letters  to  Gibbon,  ii.  217,  224, 
232,  238,  239,  243,  245,  253,  254, 
256-258,  268,  272,  274,  275,  283, 
294,  295,  302,  304,  319,  328,  343, 
348,  350,  361,  367,  368,  373,  376, 
382, 395 ;  his  pamphlets  mentioned : 
Observations  on  the  Commerce  of 
the  American  States,  ii.  72,  82, 148  ; 
—  on  the  Manufactures,  Trade, 
and  Present  State  of  Ireland,  ii. 
128 ;  —  071  the  French  Treaty  and 
Commerce,  ii.  148 ;  —  on  the  Project 
for  Abolishing  the  Slave  Trade, 
ii.  217 ;  —  on  the  Corn  Bill 
now  depending  in  Parliament,  ii. 
239 

Shelburne,  Earl,  i.  26,  373 ;  Secretary 
of  State,  ii.  14, 17 ;  Prime  Minister, 
ii.  19,  25 ;  resigns,  ii.  33 

Shelley,  Sir  John,  i.  351 

Shelley,  Lady,  ii.  31 

Shelly,  Mrs.,  ii.  386 

Sheridan,  i.  333;  his  speech  on 
Begums  of  Oude,  ii.  172 ;  lines  on 


INDEX. 


427 


Lord  Glenbcrvie,  ii.  180 ;  "  Friends 

of  the  People,"  ii.  297 
Siddons,  Mrs.,  Gibbon's  opinion  of, 

ii.  29 
Sidney,  Mr.,  i.  40 
*Simoliu,  M.,  ii.  2.34 
"•Simpson,  Mrs.  J.  Bridfiiuiin,  i.  153 
Sivrac,  Duchcsse  do,  ii.  Ill 
Skipwith,  Mr.  (Giltbon's  co-executor 

of  Clarke's  will),  i.  239,  244,  245, 

254 
Slave   Trade,   Abolition   of,   ii.  230, 
'•  294 

*Sloane,  Sir  Han^s,  i.  20,  89 
*Smith,  General,  ii.  85 
*Smit,bson,     Sir     Hugh     (Dukt^     of 

Northnmberlanri),  i.  82 
Smyrna  Coflee  House,  i.  10 
Solio      masquerade,     the      (Carlisle 

House),  i.  131 
*Southenie's  tragedy  of   T//<'  Fatal 

Marriage,  ii.  20 
Southouse,  Mr.,  Gibbon's  solicitor,  i. 

93,95,  9(j,  08,  102,  103,127 
^Southwell,  Lord,  i.  G 
Spain,   troubles    with,   i.   212,   344; 

Expedition    v.    Barbary,   i.    265 ; 

Rodney's  defeat  of  Spanish  fleet,  i. 

376;  war  witii  France,  i.  362  ;  con- 
vention between  England  and,  ii. 

220 
•Speed,  Miss  Harriet  (Comtesse    de 

Viry),  i.  314,  316 
Spencer,  Lady,  i.  33,  370;   ii.  300, 

310,  312,  400 
Spencer,  Lady  Diana.     See  Boling- 

broke.  Lady,  and  Beauclerk,  Lady 

Diana 
Spencer,    Ladv     Elizabeth    (Lady 

Pembroke),  ii.  106.  110 
Spencer,  Lord,   i.   33 ;   ii.  135,  187, 

305 
Spencer,  Lord  Charles,  i.  376 
*Spencer,  Lord  R.,  i.  366 
*Spring  Gardens,  Vauxliall,  i.  114 
Stael-Holstein,  Barou  de,  ii.  292 
-Stael-Holstein,   Madame    de,   i.   41, 

115,  291,  292;  escapes  from  Paris, 

ii.  311;  birth  of  her  sons,  ii.  319, 

347  ;  rescues  Princesse  d'Henin,  ii. 

324;  Miss  Bnrney  on,  at  Dorking, 

ii.  375 ;  Lord  Sheffield's  guest,  ii. 

377 
Stafford,  Marquis  of,  ii.  306 
Stamford,  Lord,  i.  254 
*Stamp  Act,  the,  i.  84 
*Standish,  Sir  Frank,  i.  90 
*Stanhope,  Mrs.  Eugenia,  i.  195 
Stanhope,  Philip  (Lord  Chesterfield's 

son),  i.  188,  191,  195 


^Stanislaus   Poniatowski,    King    of 

Poland,  i.  29,  158 
Stanley,  Lord,  his  Fete  Champetrc, 

i.  219 
Stanley,   Rt.  Hon.  Hans,  i.  29,  44, 

148 
*States-Geueral,  meeting  of  the,  ii. 

279 
Stawell,  Lord,  ii.  26,  175,  182,  189, 

199 
^Steward,  Colonel,  i.  398 
Steward,  Mr.,  i.  18 
Storer,  Anthony  Mon'is,  i.  207;    ii. 

07,  SG,  87 
Stormont,  Lord  (2nd  Lord  IMansfield), 

i.    314,   '.'>">'.'),    371 ;     President    of 

Counfil,  ii.  34,  305 
Strahan,    AVilliam,    printer    to    His 

Majesty,  i.  222,  263,  279 
Strange,  Lord,  i.  90 
Strathmore,  Lord,  ii.  276 
Stratton,  member  of  Madras  Council, 

i.  362 
-■■•Strode,  William,  i.  89,  90 
*Struensee,  Dr.,  i.  143 
Stuart,    Andrew,  M.P.   for  Lanark- 
shire, i.  366 
Stuart,  Gilbert,   Vieto   of  Society  in 

Europe,  etc.,  ii.  22 
Stuart,  ]Mrs.,  ii.  11 

Stuart,  Sir  Simeon,  i.  84,  92, 105,  112 
^Sturm's  BeligioHs  Meditations,  etc., 

i.  181 
Suard,    J.     B.    Antoine,    translates 

Decline  and  Fall,  i.  292 
Suess,  George,  Gibbon's  valet,  ii.  49 
Suffield,  Lord,  i.  250,  252 
Sujah   Dowlah,  Nawab  of  Oude,  i. 

187,  209 
Sulens,  Mdlle.,  ii.  43 
Sussex  Militia,  i.  336,  340, 361 
Sutton,  Sir  Richard,  i.  260 
^Sweden,  Gustavus  IIL,  King  of,  ii. 

279 
Swiss  Guard  massacred  in  Paris,  ii. 

312,  322,  355 
Swiss  Militia,  i.  38 
Sylva,  Madame  de,  ii.  388,  400 
Sydney,  Lord  (Tommy  Townshend), 
'i.  151,  210;  ii.  Id,  S6 


Taaffe,  i.  6,  35 

*Taboureau  des  Re'aux,  i.  304 
*Talleyrand,  ii.  292,  326 
*Tandy,  Napper,  ii.  115 
*Taii.iore,  Rajah  of,  i.  209,  308 
*Tankerville,  Earl  of,  i.  67 


428 


INDPJX. 


Tavistock,  Marquis  of,  i.  27 

Temple,  Lord,  i.  50,  185-187;  ii. 
19  ;  the  "  stormy  petrel  "  of  politics, 
ii.  86 

Tessier,  M.,  i.  278 

Theodore,  CLarles,  Elector  of 
Bavaria,  ii.  265 

*Thiars,  Comte  de,  ii.  324 

♦Thiers,  M.,  ii.  32G 

Thomas,  Dr.,  i.  223,  221,  241 

Thompson,  Sir  BenjamiQ  (Count  of 
Rumford),  ii.  72 

Thompson,  Sir  Charles,  i.  261 

Thurlow,  Lord.  Attorney  General,  i. 
173;  Lord  Chancellor,  i.  341;  ii. 
13,  86 ;  dismissed,  ii.  306 

Tickell,  Eichard,  ou  Gibbon's  snuff- 
box, i.  58 ;  his  pamphlet  Antici- 
pation, i.  341 ;  on  Brooks's  Club,  i. 
376 

Tippoo  (Hyder  All's  son),  ii.  19 ; 
defeated  by  Curnwallis,  ii.  276 

Tissot,  Dr.  Simon  Andre,  ii.  77,  10."), 
108,  115,  130,  179 

Titchfield,  Marquis  of,  ii.  3ii3 

ToUemache,  Hon.  W.,  i.  386 

Tonyn,  Governor  of  Florida,  i.  300 

*Toussaint  d'Ouverture,  ii.  75 

*Towers,  Dr.,  ii.  305 

Townley,  Colonel,  i.  148 

*'l'ownshend,  C,  i.  347 

Townshend,  Hon.  John,  i.  oS,  376; 
ii.  18,  19,  179 

Townsliend,  Lord,  duel  with  Lord 
BoUamont,  i.  180;  Master  of  Ord- 
nance, ii.  34 ;  on  Coalition  Ministrv, 
ii.  34 

Townshend,  Thomas.  See  Sydney, 
Lord 

Trade  and  Plantations.  See  Board 
of  Trade 

Trajan's  Pillar,  i.  67 

Tremlet,  Life  of  Ahnanzor,  i.  238. 
243 

Trevor,  Mrs.,  i.  361 ;  ii.  148,  153,  279. 
284 

Trevor,  Hon.  John  Hampden,  ii.  135, 
274,  279,  294 

*Truguet,  Admiral,  ii.  314 

Tryon,  Governor,  i.  284 

*Turgot,  M.,  i.  304 

Turin,  Gibbon  at,  i.  55 

Turton,  Dr.  John,  attends  Goldsmith, 
i.  16 ;  Gibbon,  i.  114, 150,  371,  378 ; 
Godfrey  Clarke,  i.  224 

*Tyers,  Jonathan,  i.  114 

Tylnoy,  Lord,  i.  60 

Tvrconneli,  Countess  of,  ii.  275 

♦TyrconnLll,  Earl  of,  ii.  275 

Tyrone,  Lord,  ii.  112 


U 

*Unitariau  Sooietv,  the,  ii.  .'503 
"Ushant,  battle  of,  i.  349 


'n'aillant,  Paul,  ii.  60 

*Valiiiy,  Due  de  (F.  C.  <le  Keller- 
man),  ii.  319 

*Valory,  M.  de,  ii.  256 

Van  Borehem,  ii.  370 

'"Vanbrujili's  The  Procohd  Wife,  i. 
19 ;  Tlie  Provolced  Hushand,  etc.,. 
i.  366 ;  ii.  29 

Vassall.  Elizabeth  (Ladv  Holland), 
ii.  257 

Vaueluse,  Mdlle.  de,  i.  20 

Veniee,  (iibbon  at,  i.  75 

*Vergeunes,  M.  de,  i.  334 

Vemey,  Eiirl,  i.  12(5,  107,  170,  332 

Vcrnou,  ]\lr..  i.  149 

Versailles,  Peace  of,  ii.  67 

*Victor  Amadous  III.  of  Sardinia,, 
ii.  265 

Viiy,  Count  de.  Foreign  Secretary  to 
King  of  Sardinia,  i.  56,  314 

Viry,  Countess  de,  i.  314,  316 

Voltaire,  at  les  Dtflices,  near  Geneva,, 
i.  5;  at  Femey,  i.  43;  Gibbon  ou 
his  acting,  i.  43;  his  financial 
ditfieultiea,  i.  91 ;  protests  against 
French  trnuslation  of  Shakespeare, 
i.  294 ;  quotation  from  his  Melanges- 
de  I'oe'sits,  ii.  l.J4;  his  death,  ii. 
258 

*^'olullteer  movement,  the,  i.  373 


W 


W:.ldcgrave,  Lady,  i.  131,  146,  154 

*Waldegrave,  Lord,  i.  146 

Wales,  Prince  of  (George  IV.),  ii.  97,. 
150,  173,  ISl,  :.68 

*\Valt?,  Princess  Dowager  of,  i.  143^ 
149 

"Waljiole,  Horace  (Lord  Oiford).  his 
writings  ([uoted  on  "The  Seveu 
Ye,.rs'  War,"  i.  14:  Madame  Geof- 
fiin,  i.  29 ;  Duke  of  Bedford's  tem- 
per, i.  30 ;  Lord  Lichfield  and  the 
JacDbites,  i.  34;  eoirespondence 
with  Sir  H.  Maim,  i.  65;  ii.  16; 
lMr.s.  Cornelys,  i.  131  ;  the  Pan- 
theon, i.  146:  Lord  Chesterfield'iS 
Letter.",  i.  195;  Kelly's  School  of 
Wines,  i.  199;  Colraan's  The  3Ian 
of  Biisfiness,  i.  202;   Louis   XV.'i 


INDEX. 


429 


•daughters,  i.  21S ;  X.  Aiiicrlca,  i. 
231;  America:  Ireland — Journal 
of  Beign  of  Georqe  III.,  i.  271 ; 
ii.  68;  the  story  of  Essex's  ring,  i. 
276 ;  Tessier's  acting,  i.  ^^i'* :  Mrs. 
Damcr,  i.  287;  introiinces  Giiibfui 
to  Madame  du  Deftand,  i.  :U2; 
Americau  privateers,  i.  317  :  Lord 
Nortli  and  America,  i.  32i> ;  Ad- 
miral Kcppel,  i.  340,  343 ;  on 
Gibbon's  Vindicalion,  i.  355;  his 
quarrel  with  Gibbon,  i.  396  ;  Lady 
Miller,  ii.  2;  combined  Frencii 
and  Spanish  fleets,  ii.  5;  Lady  E. 
Foster,  ii.  15;  on  Eodney's  defeat 
of  Comte  de  Grasse,  ii.  16 ;  Fox's 
library,  ii.  68;  Sheridan,  ii.  172; 
peace  with  Spain,  ii.  226 ;  Necker's 
fall,  ii.  233 ;  Gibbon's  admiration 
for  Burke,  ii.  237 :  Essay  on  Modtrii 
Gardening,  ii.  375 

>Walpole,  Sir  Edward,  i.  116 

''Walsingham,  Lord,  i.  :>S7 

*Warburton,  General,  i.  6."> 

Ward,  Colonel,  i.  258 

Ward,  Dr.,  i.  8 

♦Waring,  SValter,  i.  .S75 

Warkworth,  Lord,  i.  82 

*Warreu,  Admiral  Sir  Peter,  i.  90 

Warren,  Miss  (Countess  of  Abing- 
don), i.  1)0 

Warren,  Sir  George,  i.  301 

Warton,  his  picture  of  Gibbon,  i.  304 

Warville,  de.     See  Brissot,  J.  Pierre 

^Wasiiington,  Fort,  taken  by  British, 
i   298 

Washittgton,  George,  i.  279,  2SG,29s, 
300,  303,  323 

Watson,  Dr.  Eicliard  (Bishop  ol" 
Llandaft"),  criticizes  Decline  and 
Fall,  i.  289,  291,  2;)5 

Watteville,  M.  de,  ii.  316 

Way,  Miss  Abigail.  See  Sheffield, 
Lady 

Way,  Benjamin,  i.  139,  157,  243 

Way,  Mrs.  Benjamin,  i.  250 

*Way,  Gregory  Lewis,  i.  139 ;  ii.  64 

Way,  Lewis,  i.  85,  139 

Way,  Ricbard,  i.  173,  186,  187,  200, 
201,  205,  207,  'in,  213;  ii.  104, 
113 

Webster,  Lady  (Elizabeth  Yassall), 
ii.  257,  388 

*Webster,  Sir  Godfrey,  ii.  257 

Wedderburn,  Alexander.    See  Ross- 

lyn.  Earl 
Wentzel,  Baron  de,  the  famous  ocu- 
list, i.  105,  112 
*We8ley,  Dr.,  his  Calm   Address   to 
our  American  Colonies,  i.  271 


"Westmorland,  Lord.  ii.  321 
Weymouth,  Lord,  i.  3:53,  371 ;  ii.  5 
''•Wbateiy,  Thomas,  i.  243 
"•Whitbread,  Mr.,  ii.  368 
Whitehead,   "the    hirer  of  horses," 
ii.  104.  113 

^White's  Club,  "The  School  of 
Vice,"  i.  84 

Wliitshed,  Jameo,  M.P.  for  Ciren- 
cester, i.  239 

Wibault,  Miss  Mary  (Lady  Porten), 
i.  220,  246,  250 

Wilberlbrce,  William,  ii.  32  ;  Aboli- 
lionof  Slave  Trade,  :ii.  259,294; 
"Massa  King,"  ii.  289 

Wilbraham,  George,  i.  144,  229 

Wilkes,  Jotin,  his  duel  with  Martin, 
i.  50 ;  expelled  from  House  of 
Commons  and  outlawed,  i.  91 ; 
cliosen  Alderman,  i.  93 ;  the 
Middlesex  election,  i.  146,  251; 
his  illness,  i.  2"23;  elected  Lord 
Mayor,  i.  233 ;  on  Lord  George 
Germain,  i.  290;  the  Royal  debts, 
i.  308 

*William  III.,  ii.  321 

^Williams,  Captain,  RE.,  118 

Williams,  Mrs.  Arabella,  i.  118-121, 
123-125,372,374;  ii.  4 

Williamson,  Mrs.,  i.  95,  97,  100 

*Wilmot,  Jolin,  ii.  216 

Wilson,  Sir  Tbomaa  S.,  i.  225,  232, 
233,  237 

Winchester  Camp,  Gibbon  at,  i.  25 

AVindham,  William  ("  Weather - 
Cock  "),  M.P.  for  Norwich,  ii.  60, 
305 ;  Secretary  at  War,  ii.  306, 
363,  369 

Windsor,  Captain,  i.  343 

Winton,  tenant  of  Beriton,  i.  164, 
167,  196,  199,  201,  213,  244,  246, 
346 ;  ii.  84 

"••Wolfe  at  Quebec,  i.  145 

Wood,  Mr.,  i.  107 

Wood,  Mrs.,  ii.  267,  282 

*Woodfall,  Henry,  ii.  92 

Woodfall,  William  ("Memory  Wood- 
fall"),  editor  of  Morning  Chro- 
nicle, ii.  82,  91,  97,  246,  250,  368, 
370 

Woolfe,  George,  i.  35 

*Worce8ter,  Marquis  of,  ii.  216 

Worsley,  Sir  James,  i.  34,  88 

Worsley,  Sir  Richard,  i.  34,  82,111. 
153,  261 ;  ii.  4,  10 

Worsley,  Sir  Tliomas,  i.  34,  44,  50, 
52,  76,  78, 87,  88,  90 

"'•Wraxall's  Historical  Memoir* 
quoted,  i.  381 ;  Posthumous  Me- 
moirs quoted,  ii.  275 


430 


INDEX. 


Wray,  Mrs.,  i.  20 

AVurtemberg   (Wirtenbcrgh),    Duke 

of,  i.  91 
*Wyatt,  architect  of  Pantheon,  i.  146 
Wyndhatn,  Lady  F..  i.  247 
Wynn,  Sir  Watkin  Williams,  i.  148 
Wyttenbach,  M.,  ii.  260 


Xaintes  (Saintes),  Bishop  of,  ii.  342 


i 


*Yarborough,  Earl  of,  i.  15o 

*Yates,  Mrs.,  i.  252 

*Yeo,  Edward  Eoe.  1.  ;;93 

York,  Duchess  of  (Princess  Frederica 

of  Prussia),  ii.  275 
York,  Edward  Augustus,  Duke  of,  i. 

54,  65 ;   ii.  275 ;    with    trooijs  iu 

Flanders,  ii.  :376,  394 
Young,  Arthur,  ii.  324 
Young,  Sir  George,  ii.  19 


THE   END. 


1 


4 


LONDON  :   PRINTED   BY   WILLIAM   CLOWES  AKD  SONS,    LIMIIBI)^ 
STAMFOUD  STREET    AND  CHARING   CROSS. 


I/O 


ii;:5?8 


AUG  2  3 


,  suiiiHiHr.  HK.i'i'.';!  'il' 


AA      000  263  989    6 


