463 

A2P2 
1784 


>eches  in  the  House 
of  Commons  on  the  Original  'test 
India  Bill  and  on  the  Amended 
Bill 

By 
Philip  Francis 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 

AT   LOS  ANGELES 


TWO        SPEECHES 


I  H      THE 


HOUSE    OF    COMMONS 


O   N 


THE    ORIGINAL    EAST-INDIA    BILL 


AND      ON 


THE    AMENDED    BILL, 


O   K 


THE    1 6th    AND    26th     OF   J  U  L  Y,    1784, 


a  Y 


PHILIP    FRANCIS,    Es  c^ 


LONDON: 

Printed  for  J .  DEBRETT,  oppofite  Burlington  Houfc,  Piccadilly. 


-He* 

A -/ 


/  £- 

HOUSE     OF     COMMONS. 

FRIDAY,     JULY    16,    1784. 


"  A  H  E  order  of  the  day  being  read,  for  the 
'«  Houfe  to  refolve  itfelf  into  a  Committee  of 
"  the  whole  Houfe,  upon  the  Bill  for  the  better 
*'  regulation  and  management  of  the  affairs  of  the 
"  Eaft-  India  Company,  and  of  the  Britilh  pof- 
(f  feffions  in  India,  and  for  eftabliihing  a  Court  of 
"  Judicature  for  the  more  fpeedy  and  effectual 
"  trial  of  perfons  accufed  of  offences  committed 
"  in  the  Eaft  Indies  ;  the  Speaker  put  the  queftion, 
kf  jhould  now  leave  the  chair  fn 


Mr.     FRANCIS. 

Mr.  SPEAKER, 

I  am  forry  that   I  muft  be    obliged  to  oppofe 

your  leaving  the  chair.      My  opinion  of  the   bill 

will   not  allow  me   to  confent  to  its  going  to  a 

Committee  |  for  I  not  only  think  it  materially  de- 

B  fedtive 


fect'ive  in  the  detail,  but  liable  to  fundamental 
and  eflential  objections.  Particular  provifions  might 
be  added,  improved,  or  omitted  ;  but  objections, 
that  go  to  the  foundation  and  effence  of  the  bill, 
are  not  to  be  removed  by  any  alterations,  that  would 
not  make  it  compleatly  a  new  one.  I  have  atten- 
tively confidered  the  fubject;  and  I  mean,  if  the 
Houfe  will  permit  me,  to  fubmit  to  you  my  opinion 
of  it,  more  at  large  than  I  Ihould  venture  to  do 
any  other.  I  mean  to  examine  the  principles  as 
well  as  the  provifions  of  the  bill ;  —  a  taflc,  I  fear, 
not  to  be  performed  without  a  long  and  a  tedious 
difcuilion.  To  me  the  talk  is  particularly  heavy, 
but  I  am  bound  to  undertake  it  by  many  obliga- 
tions. The  labour  we  are  engaged  in  does  not 
offer  me  the  fame  hopes,  which  it  may  have  fug- 
gefled  to  others  :  I  am  not  encouraged  to  engage 
*  in  it  by  a  fanguine  expectation  of  fuccefs.  I  very 
v  much  fear,  that  the  object  of  our  prefent  delibera- 
tion is  dead.  You  have  neglected  it  too  long. 
You  have  fuffered  it  to  fall  into  a  Hate  of  ruin  from 
which,  I  fear,  no  remedy  within  the  reach  of  human 
A  wifdom  can  recover  it.  But  a  great  authority,  un- 
der which  I  had  the  honour  and  good  fortune  to  be 
bred,  has  taught  me,  that  duty  may  furvive  hope. 
—  On  this  principle  alone,  I  am  ftill  ready  to  take 
my  fhare  in  the  duty,  though  I  cannot  partake  in 
any  hope  of  its  fuccefs. 

The  views  and  principles  of  the  bill  may  natu- 
rally  and  properly  be  divided  into  three  diftinct  ge- 
neral heads.  —  Firft,  the  new  arrangement  and  dif- 

tribution 


[    3     3 

tribution  of  power  at  home,  with  all  its  probable 
effects  and  influence  on  our  domeftic  government. — 
On  this  part  of  the  fubject  I  lhall  confine  myfelf 
ftrictly  to  the  fact,  which  I  think  will  be  eafily 
eftablifhed,  that  there  is  a  compleat  and  abfolute 
transfer  of  the  whole  power  and  patronage  of  the 
Eaft-India  Company  into  the  hands  of  the  Crown. 
Of  the  effects  of  this  transfer  of  power,  of  its  pro- 
bable influence  on  our  own  Government,  and  of 
the  danger  with  which  it  may  threaten  the  Confti- 
tution  of  England,  I  do  not  mean  to  offer  an 
opinion.  If  thofe  topics  have  not  already  been  fuf- 
ficiently  difcufled,  they  properly  belong  to  the  de- 
partment, and  ihould  be  referved  for  the  employ- 
ment of  the  greatelt  abilities  in  this  country.  A 
right  honourable  gentleman  near  me  will  do  juftice 
to  the  fubject. 

The  fecond  division  of  the  bill  includes  the  ar- 
rangements and  regulations  intended  for  the  Go- 
vernments abroad ;  and  on  this  I  lhall  hope  to  be 
permitted  to  enlarge.  Without  pretending  to  fu- 
perior  qualifications,  or  prefuming  to  dictate  to  the 
wifdom  of  the  Houfe,  I  am  perfuaded  you  will 
liften  to  information,  which  only  profeffes  to  be  de- 
rived from  experience. 

The  third  divilion  regards  the  new  plan  of  cri- 
minal judicature  propofed  to  be  introduced  into 
England,  for  trying  offences  committed  in  India. 
On  this  laft  point  my  opinion  will  not  be  delivered 
in  many  words,  but  the  words  that  I  make  ufe  of 
jhall  be  the  jCtrongefl;  I  can  find. 

E  2  Sir, 


[    4    3 

Sir,  There  are  two  preliminary  obfervations,  which 
arife  on  a  general  view  of  the  bill,  and  which  I  wifh 
the  Houfe  to  carry  along  with  them,  through  the 
difcuffion  of  all  the  parts  of  it.  Firft,  that  the 
whole  bill  on  the  face  of  it  is  remedial ;  that  it  is 
a  remedy  of  a  new  and  violent  nature,  neceflary 
perhaps,  but  neceffary  only  on  the  fuppofition  of 
fome  great  and  inveterate  diforders,  both  at  home 
and  abroad,  which,  though  conftantly  implied,  are 
no  where  dated. 

Secondly,  Sir,  admitting  fuch  diforders  to  exift, 
I  think  it  will  appear,  through  the  whole  plan  of 
the  bill,  that  the  remedy  applied  is  in  every  inftance 
directly  th6  reverfe  of  what  the  diforder  requires. 
With  refpect  to  the  Governments  abroad,  the  ac- 
knowledged grievance  is,  that  the  powers,  hitherto 
intruded,  have  been  groflly  and  notoriously  abufed. 
But  you  will  find  that,  in  the  contemplation  of  this 
"bill,  the  true  and  natural  remedy  for  an  abufe  of 
power  is  to  increafe  it.  With  refpect  to  the  Com- 
pany's Government  at  home,  the  conftant  complaint 
of  the  Directors  has  been,  that  their  power  over 
their  fervants  was  too  feeble  to  enforce  obedience,  that 
their  authority  was  difregarded,  and  their  orders 
avowedly  and  conftantly  difobeyed.  You  have  facts 
in  abundance,  reported  to  you  by  your  Committees, 
to  fatisfy  the  Houfe  that  thefe  complaints  of  the 
Directors  are  perfectly  well  founded.  Now,  Sir, 
in  the  contemplation  of  this  bill,  the  remedy  for 
difobedience  of  orders  is  to  ftrengthen  the  power 
that  difobeys;  and  whea  infulted  authority  calls  for 

fupport, 


[    5    3 

fupport,  either,  in  effect  to  reduce  it  to  nothing, 
or,  what  is  ftill  worfe,  to  fuffer  it  to  exift  and  to 
make  it  contemptible.  The  pretended  power,  left 
in  the  hands  of  the  Directors,  is  a  mockery  of  the 
degraded  ftate  of  thofe  unfortunate  gentlemen.  It 
is  worfe  than  ufelefs ;  for  fince,  in  fact,  they  arc 
only  to  be  the  channel  of  the  operations  of  a  fuperior 
power,  you  diminifti  even  that  power,  which  un- 
queftionably  the  bill  propofes  to  eftablilh,  and  ex- 
pofe  it  to  mare  in  the  contempt  attached  to  the 
medium,  through  which  it  is  to  aft.  In  thefe  ob- 
fervations  I  mean  only  to  ftate  the  general  refult 
and  impreffion  of  the  bill,  without  immediately  re- 
ferring to  the  fpecific  evidence,  from  which  they  are 
deduced.  The  fhorteft  and  cleareft  way  to  eftablifli 
the  truth  of  them  is  to  enter  at  once  into  the  detail 
of  the  bill,  and  to  follow  it  as  it  goes. 

Sir,  the  very  outfet  of  the  bill  is  effentially  de- 
fective. When  an  act  of  legiflative  power  is  applied 
to  the  total  alteration  of  an  exifting  Government, 
it  muft  of  neceffity  be  fuppofed  that  fuch  Govern- 
ment is  either  radically  corrupt,  or  unfaithfully  ad- 
miniftered.  No  man,  I  prefume,  will  difpute  that 
fuch  is  the  fad:  in  the  general  government  of  the 
Eaft-India  Company's  affairs.  The  prefent  bill,/^ 
through  every  part  of  it,  fuppofes  what  it  no  where 
avows,  that  nothing  lefs  than  a  vigorous  interpofition 
of  the  Legislature  can  fave  the  object.  For  aught 
that  appears  in  the  preamble  of  this  act,  where  the 
general  grounds  of  it  fhould  naturally  be  fet  forth, 
the  territorial  poffeffions,  for  whofe  better  govern- 
ment 


[    6    ] 

ment  we  are  going  to  provide,  may  be  perfectly 
well  governed  at  prefent.  For  want  of  this  eflential 
preliminary,  the  whole  body  of  the  bill  is  in  ef- 
fect a  conclufion  without  premifes,  a  remedy  without 
3  difeafe,  a  penalty  without  a  crime.  The  omiffion 
6f  fuch  a  preamble  to  fuch  a  bill  as  this  will  appear 
extraordinary  as  well  as  improper,  to  thofe  who  re- 
collect with  how  much  force  and  energy  the  Chan- 
cellor of  the  Exchequer,  in  opening  the  plan  and 
principles  of  the  bill,  infifted  on  the  magnitude  of 
thofe  crimes  and  abufes,  which  demanded  and  juf- 
tified  a  proportionate  effort  of  power  to  punifh  or 
correct  them.  He  was  not  very  referved  in  his  de- 
fcription  of  the  offenders,  or  of  their  offences,  but 
painted  them  both  in  the  blackelt  colours.  It  is 
much  to  be  regretted,  that  the  fubftance,  at  leaft, 
of  his  opinion  of  Indian  delinquency  mould  be  no 
where  recorded  for  the  benefit  of  his  friends. 

The  new  Board  of  Commiflioners  for  the  affairs 
of  India  is  to  confift  of  certain  Members  of  His 
Majefty's  Privy  Council,  and  they  are  to  be  inverted 
with  the  fuperintendence  and  control  over  all  the 
British  territorial  pofleffions  in  the  Eaft  Indies,  and 
ever  the  affairs  of  the  United  Company  of  Merchants 
trading  thereto.  The  powers,  conveyed  by  the  latter 
part  of  this  claufe,  evidently  and  exprefily  include 
the  Company's  commerce.  The  affairs  of  a  Com- 
pany of  Merchants  trading  to  India  can  only  be 
commercial.  Let  the  Court  of  Directors  look  to  it. 
I  am  perfectly  aware,  that  in  a  fubfequent  claufe  it 
is  provided,  that  if  the  Commiffioners  fend  any  or- 
ders 


C    7    ] 

ders  to  the  Court  of  Directors,  which,  in  their  opi- 
nion, fliall  relate  to  points  not  connected  with  the 
territorial  government  or  revenues,  they  may  apply 
to  the  King  in  Council  for  redrefs ;  that  is,  if 
they  are  diffatisfled  with  the  judgement  of  His  Ma- 
jelly's  Minifters  at  one  Board,  they  may  appeal  to 
His  Majefty's  Minifters  at  another.  The  power 
given  is  unlimited.  The  appeal  againft  the  exer- 
cife  of  it  is  nugatory. 

The  Court  of  Directors  are  to  be  governed  and 
bound  by  the  orders  they  receive  from  the  Com- 
miflioners ;  and  are  not  to  fend  difpatches  of  any 
kind  to  India,  without  their  previous  approbation. 

The  Commiffioners  may  fend  their  own  orders 
originally  to  the  Directors,  who  are  obliged  to  in- 
fert  fuch  orders  in  xtheir  difpatches,  purfuant  to  the 
tenor  thereof;  that  is,  in  the  fame  words. 

If  the  Commiffioners  ihould  be  of  opinion  that 
the  cafe  requires  fecrecy,  they  may  fend  their  own 
orders  directly  to  the  Governments  in  India,  with- 
out any  communication  with  the  Court  of  Directors, 
who  are  not  to  be  trufted  even  with  the  knowledge 
of  meafures,  in  which  the  moft  effential  interefts, 
the  fafety,  and,  perhaps,  the  eziftence  of  the  India 
Company  may  be  involved.  In  the  fame  claufe, 
the  Commiflioners  may  not  only  fend  their  orders  to 
the  Governments  abroad  without  the  knowledge  of 
the  Directors,  but,  what  is  much  more  extraordi- 
nary, and  much  more  alarming,  they  may  fend  fe- 
cret  inflections  to  the  Commanders  in  Chief  in  In- 
dia, independent  of  the  Civil  Government  on  thc^ 

fpov 


[    8    3 

fpot.  If  there  be  no  miflake  in  the  conflruction  of 
this-claufe ;  if  it  be  ferioufly  intended  to  give  this 
power  to  the  Miniflers  of  the  Crown,  there  is  no 
daufe  in  the  bill  that  more  urgently  demands  the 
attention  of  the  Houfe.  By  another  claufe,  the  no- 
mination and  appointment  of  all  the  Commanders 
in  Chief  in  India,  and  of  perfons  to  fucceed  to  the 
command  in  cafe  of  vacancy,  are  directly  vetted  in 
the  Crown ;  and  thefe  officers  are  required  to  obey 
whatever  orders  they  receive  from  the  King's  Mi- 
niflers, not  only  independent  of  the  Directors  at 
home,  but  of  the  Civil  Government  of  the  Prefi- 
dency  to  which  they  belong.  I  {late  the  facts  as 
I  find  them,  and  mall  leave  them  without  comment 
to  the  judgement  of  the  Houfe. 

The  general  patronage  of  the  Company  is  pro- 
fefledly  left  with  the  Court  of  Directors,  but  with 
exceptions  and  reftridtions  which  really  reduce  it  to 
nothing.  The  Commanders  in  Chief  and  their  im- 
mediate fucceffors,  at  all  the  Prefidencies,  are  to  be 
under  the  immediate  appointment  of  the  Crown. 
By  this  provifion  the  military  is  feparated  from  the 
civil  power  of  the  Company's  government.  The 
Court  of  Directors,  who  pay  the  army,  and  whofe 
general  authority  over  it  is  apparently  continued, 
can  neither  appoint,  nor  remove  the  perfons  who 
command  it. 

With  refpect  to  the  offices  of  Governor  General, 
Prelidents,  and  Members  of  the  feveral  Councils  in 
India,  the  Directors,  it  is  true,  may  nominate  and 
appoint :  but  it  ^eferves  to  be  considered,  that  they 


t    9    3 

who   appoint  are  not  permitted  to  remove ;  that 
power  is  exclufively  vefted  in  the  Crown ;  and  even 
the  pretended  power  of  appointing  to  thefe  offices  is 
ineffectual.     Their  nomination  is  to  be  fubject  to  his 
Majefty's   approbation.     If  the   King  difapp roves, 
the  Directors  muft  proceed  to  another  nomination  ; 
and  fo  on,  toties  quoties,  until  perfons  fhall  be  ap- 
pointed who  Jball  Iff  approved  by  His  Majefty.     This 
is  the  way,  in  which  the  patronage  of  all  the  princi- 
pal offices  in  India  is  difpofed  of.     All  other  promo- 
tions, civil  and  military,  are  to  be  made  according 
to  feniority  of  appointment  in  a  regular  progreffive 
fucceflion ;  and  the  Directors  are  prohibited  from 
fending  out  any  new  fefvants,  civil  or  military,  un-i 
til   certain  eftablifhments  lhall  be  completed,  and 
then,  only  to  fill  up  the  vacancies  that  may  happen 
therein.     I  do  not  mean  to  blame  thefe  laft  regula- 
tions :  but,  if  all  the  preceding  exceptions  and  li- 
mitations are  combined,  it  is  evident,  that  no  real 
patronage  will  be  left  with  the  Directors,  or,  at  the 
utmoft,  a  patronage  to  operate  upon  trifles.     Not  fo 
the  powers  given  to  the  Commiffioners.     In  every 
department  of  the  Company's  affairs,  their  diredt 
authority,  or  their  indirect  influence,  is  real  and  ef- 
fective.     On  the  real  principles  of  this  bill,  whether 
acknowledged  or  not,  the  Court  of  Directors  oughi 
to  be  abolifhed.     To  leave  a  fliadow  of  power  after* 
the  fubflance  of  it  is  gone,  is  to  eftablifti  a  contra- 
diction, which  can  only  do  mifchief.    Whenever 
the  conftitution  of  any  government  is  eflentially  al- 
tered, the  forms  ihould  not  be  allowed  to  furvive 
P  the 


the  efTence.  Under  the  flicker  of  thefe 
things  will  be  done,  or  duties  will  be  neglected,  for 
which  no  man  will  be  refponfible.  No  defpotifm 
was  ever  fo  fevere  as  that,  which  exifted  in  the  form 
of  a  republic.  In  whatever  degree  the  powers  re- 
ferved  to  the  Directors  are  effective,  they  can  only 
be  productive  of  mifchievous  effects.  They  can 
only  clalh  with,  and  retard  the  operations  of  the  fu- 
perior  Board,  and  furnifh  them  both  with  pretences 
for  accufing  each  other  of  whatever  may  happen 
amifs. 

Now,  Sir,  I  fubmit  it  to  the  Houfe,  to  deter- 
mine whether  my  firft  propofition  be  not  fufficiently 
eftablimed,  that  in  every  fenfe.  in  which  power  can 
be  fufpicious,  in  which  power  can  be  mifchievous 
to  the  thing  fubject  to  it,  or  dangerous  to  objects 
not  immediately  connected  with  it,  there  is  by  this 
bill  a  complete  and  abfolute  transfer  of  power  from. 
the  India  Company  to  the  Crown.  /  conlider  it 
only  as  it  affects  the  Government  of  India,  and  fhall 
purfue  the  remaining  claufes  in  the  order  in  which 
they  ftand. 

I  have  already  taken  the  liberty  of  obferving  to 
the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  that  the  bill 
makes  no  provifion  for  the  fituation  of  a  Comman- 
der in  Chief  of  all  the  Company's  forces  in  India. 
The  office  exifts,  though  it  be  not  actually  filled 
up,  and  it  ought  to  be  provided  for.  That  officer 
has  always  had  a  feat  in  the  Supreme  Council ;  of 
courfe,  there  muft  be  a  miftake  in  the  feventeenth 
claufe,  which  gives  voice  and  precedence  in  Council 

to 


c  ».  j 

to  the  Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Prefidency  of 
Fort  William,  as  if  he  had  a  feat  there,  which,  in 
fad:,  he  never  had.  The  miftake  mult  be  cor- 
retted. 

From  the  terms  of  the  nineteenth  clanfe,  I  con- 
clude that  Lord  Macartney  is  to  be  removed  from 
the  Government  of  Fort  St.  George  ;  that  is,  that 
he  is  to  be1"facrificed  to  the  views  and  refentments 
of  the  Government  of  Bengal.  I  have  not  the  ho- 
nour of  knowing  Lord  Macartney,  nor  have  I  a 
connection  with  him  of  any  kind  :  but,  in  order  to 
be  convinced  that  the  noble  Lord  has  done  his  duty, 
it  is  fufficient  for  me  to  know  who  the  perfons  are, 
and  what  the  combination  is,  that  are  united  againft 
him.  By  a  different  courfe  of  conduct,  their  enmity 
is  not  to  be  incurred.  The  moment  I  knew  the 
fad:,  I  drew  the  conclufion  —  I  forefaw  the  confe- 
quence,  and  foretold  it  to  his  friends  :  This  man  is 
doing  his  duty,  and  ajfuredly  he'll  l>e  recalled  for  if. 
Comparing  this  claufe  with  another  that  relates  to 
Fort  William,  the  Houfe  will  obferve,  that  in  Ben- 
gal, which  is  the  feat  of  power,  and  where,  if  mif- 
chief  has  been  done  in  India,  the  fource  of  it  muft 
ex'ift,  there  is  to  be  no  change  of  hands ;  but,  in  the 
fubordinate  fettlements,  there  is  to  be  an  univerfal 
fweep. 

The  wifdom  and  neceffity  of  the  thirtieth  claufe, 
by  which  the  General  Court  of  Proprietors  are  re- 
ftrained  from  interfering  with  any  aft,  order,  refolu- 
//<?;;,  matter,  or  proceeding  of  the  Court  of  Dlrettors, 
will,  in  this  Houfe  at  lealt,  be  generally  acknow- 
C  2  Icdged. 


.  I  ?»  3 

ledged.  All  parties,  I  believe,  are  agreed  on  the 
neceflity  of  putting  an  end  to  the  cabals  of  that  af- 
fembly.  Every  bill,  from  every  quarter,  that  ha* 
hitherto  been  propofed  for  the  better  regulation 
of  the  Company's  affairs,  makes  fpecial  provifion 
for  this  favourite  object.  I  therefore  give  the  claufe 
my  entire  and  hearty  approbation.  At  the  fame 
time,  Sir,  I  cannot  help  obferving,  that  the  prin- 
cipk  and  object  of  this  provifion  is  not  to  be  recon- 
ciled to  the  language,  or  rather  to  the  cry,  by  which 
a  bill  that  patted  the  Houfe  of  Commons  laft  year 
was  run  down,  and  the  honourable  perfon  who 
moved  it,  for  a  moment  difpoflerTed  of  his  popu- 
larity, and  driven  from  his  (lation.  If  the  rights 
conveyed  by  an  exclufive  charter  be-  in  their  nature 
facred,  they  can  no  more  be  invaded  in  part,  than 
they  can  be  wholly  refumed.  If  the  charter  itfelf 
be  facred,  it  ought  to  be  inviolable  ;  or,  if  any  part 
of  it  be  more  effentially  facred  than  the  reft,  it  muft 
be  that,  which  fecures  to  the  Proprietors  the  con- 
trol and  direction  of  their  own  affairs.  In  this  re- 
fpecl;,  the  prefent  bill  adopts  the  very  fame  princi- 
pie,  by  which  a  much  better  was  defeated.  It  af- 
fumes  a  difcretion,  where,  on  the  profeffed  princi- 
ples of  thofe  who  defend  it,  there  fhould  be  none. 
It  takes  or  leaves  juft  as  much  of  the  Company's 
charter,  as  fuits  the  purpofes  of  the  prefent  Admi- 
niftration. 

The  objecl:  of  the  thirty-fecond  claufe  is  proper. 
The  fubordinate  Prefidencies  fhould  either  be  de- 
pendent on  the  fuperintendence  and  control  of  the 

Go- 


[    «3    > 

Governor  General  and  Council  in  all  cafes,  or  to* 
tally  exempt  from  it.  We  know  by  experience, 
that  an  attempt  to  fubjed:  them  to  a  partial  control 
is  not  likely  to  fucceed.  We  know  that  it  has  hi* 
therto  produced  no  good  effedu  On  the  other  hand, 
it  is  evidently  abfurd  and  hazardous,  that  the  mem- 
bers of  one  {late,  and  the  parts  of  one  fyftem,  ihould 
not  be  united  under  one  power,  whenever  they  are 
to  adt,  and  not  move  together  under  a  fingle  direc- 
tion. There  is  no  alternative,  -  therefore,  but  tfr 
eftablifh  a  general  authority  at  Fort  William,  and 
to  infift  on  a  general  fubmiffion  to  it :  but,  at  the 
fame  time,  let  care  be  taken  to  unite  the  powers, 
and  ftrengthen  the  authority  at  home  in  the  fame 
proportion. 

The  thirty-third  claufe  is  fo  very  incorrect  and 
obfcure,  that,  I  confefs,  I  mould  be  glad  to  fee  it 
translated  into  common  fenfe.  It  is  faid,  that  the 
rules,  ordinances,  and  regulations,  which  the  Go- 
vernor General  and  Council  are  empowered  to  iiTue, 
(hall  extend  to  all  rules,  ordinances,  and  regulations 
made  by  the  faid  Governor  General  and  Council, 
If  this  be  not  pofitively  nonfenfe,  it  is,  at  leafl,  an 
extraordinary  way  of  removing  all  former  qvejl'ions 
and  doubts  upon  the  fubjedt.  Whoever  drew  up 
the  claufe  evidently  knew  nothing  of  the  matter. 
So  far  from  explaining  the  queftions,  or  removing 
the  doubts  to  which  he  alludes,  he  does  not  even 
know  what  they  were,  nor  what  they  referred  to* 
The  only  queftion  that  ever  arofe  in  Bengal,  con- 
cerning the  power  granted  by  the  adt  of  1773  to  the 

Governor 


Governor  General  and  Council,  to  make  rules  and 
ordinances  for  the  fettlement  of  Fort  William,,  was, 
to  what  things,  to  what  fubjeft  matter)  and  not  to 
what  perfons  or  places,  the  power  extended ;  and 
this,  indeed,  is  a  doubt  which  it  would  be  proper 
to  clear  up.  If  it  be  intended  to  give  a  general  le- 
giflative  power,  the  terms  you  make  ufe  of  mu  ft  be 
jnuch  more  comprehenfive  and  much  more  explicit. 
The  thirty-feventh  claufe  declares,  that  to  purfue 
fchemes  of  conqueft,  and  ex  ten/ton  of  dominion  in  India, 
are  meafures  repugnant  to  the  wijh,  the  honour,  and 
policy  of  this  nation.  Sir,  I  wifh  to  fee  a  proposition 
fo  full  of  truth  and  wifdom,  not  only  acknowledged, 
/  but  enforced.  In  this  moft  eflential  view,  the  plan 
of  the  bill  is  moft  eflentially  defective.  It  alludes 
to  facts  and  offences  which  are  not  ftated,  and  to 
criminals  whom,  fo  far  from  attempting  to  punim, 
it  does  not  even  venture  to  defcribe.  If  fuch  facts 
and  criminals  do  not  exift,  the  whole  bill  is  a  fu- 
perfluity  built  upon  a  falfehood.  It  fuppofes  ima- 
ginary diforders,  for  the  imaginary  merit  of  correct- 
ing them.  But  if  they  really  exift,  it  is  in  vain  to 
expect  that  they  will  be  checked  or  prevented  by 
the  empty  threats  of  a  Legiflature,  that  contents  it- 
felf  with  piling  up  laws  upon  laws,  and  regulations 
on  regulations  -±-  of  a  Legiflature,  that  never  has 
hitherto  been  obeyed,  yet  always  looks  forward  to 
future  obedience.  Reward  and  punimment  are  the 
right  and  left  hand  of  Government.  It  is  the  office 
of  the  head  to  frame  and  denounce  the  law,  but  it 
is  the  hand  that  muft  enforce  it.  In  another  point 

of 


C    '5    ] 

of  viewr  the  bill  is  unjuft  as  well  as  impotent.  It 
makes  no  diftin&ion  between  thofe  perfons,  who  have 
uniformly  a£ted  on  the  principles  you  approve,  and 
others,  who  have  uniformly  acted  on  the  principles 
you  condemn.  In  not  ftating  any  to  be  innocent,  it 
fuppofes  all  to  be  guilty.  Now,  Sir,  I  ftiall  do  what 
the  mover  of  the  bill  has  not  had  courage  to  do.  I 
attach  refponiibility  to  power,  and  I  affirm,  that,  at 
the  end  of  the  year  1777,  the  whole  political  power 
of  the  Britifh  empire  in  India,  nominally  vefled  in  the 
Governor  General  and  Council,  was  really  and  fub- 
Jftantially  veiled  in  Mr.  Haftings.  If  Mr.  Haftings, 
fup ported  by  one  Member  of  the  Supreme  Council 
againft  the  other  two,  be  not  exclusively  refponfible 
for  the  war  which  was  undertaken  at  that  period, 
for  the  avowed  purpofe  of  conqueit  and  exteniion  of 
dominion,  which  carried  defolation  with  it  wherever 
it  extended,  and  which  has  ended  in  the  ruin  of  the 
Eaft-India  Company  ?  it  is  fit  that  Parliament  and 
the  nation  ihould  know,  nay,  it  is  the  duty  of  Par- 
liament  to  inquire,  who  was  the  author  of  the  war, 
and  who  is  to  be  anfwerable  for  it.  Facts,  it  will 
be  faid,  may  be  very  differently  reprefented,  and 
varioufly  accounted  for,  efpecially  at  fo  great  a  dif- 
tance  as  from  India  to  England.  Sir,  I  well  know 
the  facility,  with  which  facts  at  fuch  a  diftance  may 
be  ftated  to  advantage.  But  principles  formally  de- 
clared, and  deliberately  avowed,  are  not  to  be  dif- 
guifed  or  retracted.  They  fland  for  public  judge- 
ment, and  they  demand  it.  If  the  Houfe  have  any 
doubt  about  the  fad,  let  them  look  to  the  acknow- 
ledged 


C  i«  3 

ledged  principles  of  the  perfoh,  to  whorft  the  fad  fo 
imputed.  Does  Mr.  Haftings  himfelf  deny.,  that 
conqueft  and  extent  of  dominion  were  his  object  in 
the  purfuit  of  the  Maratta  war  ?  No,  Sir ;  he  avowi 
it.  Let  him  anfwer  for  himfelf.  I  will  not  run  the 
rifque  of  doing  him  an  injuftice. 

"  If  the  Britifh  arms  and  influence  have  fuffered 
M  a  fevere  check  in  the  Weftern  world,  it  is  the* 
*•  more  incumbent  on  thofe  who  are  charged  with 
«'  the  interefts  of  Great  Britain  in  the  Eaft,  to  exert 
ft  themfelves  for  the  retrieval  of  the  national  lofs ; 
*c  that  we  have  the  means  in  our  power ;  and  that, 
**  with  fuch  fuperior  advantages  as  we  poflefs  over 
**  every  power  which  can  oppofe  us,  we  jbould  not 
"  aft  merely  on  the  defenfive  *." 

In  fhefe  explicit  words  you  have  all  the  policy 
and  .all  the  juftice  of  the  Maratta  war  :  If  we  have 
fuffered  Iqffes  in  the  Weft,  let  us  repair  them  in  th* 
Eaft ;  whertver  we  are  powerful,  it  is  our  bufinefs  to 
attack.  Surely,  Sir,  if  no  other  evidence  exifled, 
it  would  not  be  very  unreafonable  to  prefume,  that 
Mr.  Haftings's  meafures  have  been  formed  on  the 
principles  he  profefles. 

I  am  ready  to  admit  that  the  claufe  in  queftion 
does  all  that  can  be  done,  by  mere  legiilative  prohi- 
bition, to  put  a  flop  to  fuch  meafures  in  future. 
Yet  I  very  much  fear  that  the  general  rule  will  be 
defeated  by  the  exception  that  attends  it.  The 
Governor  General  and  Council  are  not  to  make  war, 
or  to  commence  hoftilities  againft  any  of  the  coun- 

>        *  Confiiltatiou  of  *j<}  June,  1778. 

try 


C   »?  3 

try  powers,  unlefsfuch  powers Jball  be  aftually  m&king 
preparations  for  the  commencement  of  bofti titles  againft 
us  or  our  allies.  I  beg  leave  to  affure  the  Houfe,  ^ 
that  whenever  the  Governor  General  and  Council 
are  difpofed  to  make  war  upon  their  neighbours  j 
they  can  at  all  times  fabricate  a  cafe  to  fuit  their 
purpofe,  and  fend  home  a  mafs  of  incontrovertible 
evidence  to  fupport  it.  —  The  exception  in  the  next  ' 
claufe,  by  which  a  fimilar  latitude  is  given  to  Fort 
St.  George  and  Bombay,  is  not  fo  dangerous,  be- 
caufe  thofe  Preiidencies  are  nearer  to  a  power  that 
may  control  them.  They  cannot  make  war,  if  the 
Governor  General  and  Council  be  ferioufly  deter- 
mined againft  it.  But  again  I  tell  you,  that  one 
example  is  worth  a  hundred  laws, 

I  am  not  very  converfant  with  the  affairs  of  the  >/ 
coaft  of  Coromandel,  and  therefore  fliall  offer  but » 
fmgle  obfervation  on  the  feveral  claufes  that  relate 
to  the  liquidation  of  the  debts  due  to  Britilh  fub- 
je&s  from  the  Nabob  of  Arcot,  the  Rajah  of  Tan- 
jore,  and  any  other  of  the  native  protected  princes 
in  India.  The  labour  of  inquiring  into  and  liqui- 
dating thefe  debts,  which  the  bill  impofes  on  the 
Governor  General  and  Council,  in  addition  to  their 
own  immediate  duties,  will  be  very  heavy,  and,  I 
believe,  equally  ufelefs.  They  may  adjuft  the  ac- 
count ;  but  I  have  no  conception  how  the  debts  are 
to  be  paid  out  of  an  exhaufted  revenue,  and  a  min- 
ed country.  I  believe  it  to  be  impoffible,  unlefs  a 
preference  is  to  be  given  to  the  private  debts  before 
D  thofe 


C  '»  3 

thaie  of  the  .Company,  which,  I  prefume,  is  not 
intended. 

The  final  fettlement  of  the  prefent  indeterminate 
rights  .and  poifeffions  of  the  Nabob  of  Arcot  and 
the  Rajah  of  Tanjore,  with  refpect  to  each  other, 
is  a  juft,  a  neceflary,  and  an  attainable  object*  The 
principles,  on  which  the  .fettlement  is  to  be  made, 
appear  to  me  to  be  the  boft  that  could  be  adopted. 
But  I  moft  ftrongly  object  to,  and  proteft  againft 
the  idea  of  leaving  the  execution  of  the  meafure  ta 
the  Governor  Generad  and  Council.  The  power, 
whiidh  predominates  in  that  Government,  is  noto- 
rioufly  partial  to  the  Nabob  of  Arcot,  and  ihoftile 
to  the  Rajah  of  Tanjore.  The  tribunal,  to  which 
you  refer  the  parties,  is  prejudiced  in  favour  of  the 
ftronger  of  the  two,  and,  if  its  intentions  were 
ever  fo  upright,  ihould  not  be  touted  with  the 
power  of  judging  between  them,  Meiriber  is  it  ne> 
eeffary,  Tliere  is  no  queftion  of  right  between  the 
contending  parties,  which  may  not  be  decided  a$ 
properly  and  as  erTe&uatty  in  England  as  it  can  be 
in  ^Bengal,  The  Co^rt  of  Dir>etftor-s  have  all  -.tl*e 
materials  before  them  ;  they  may  determine  the 
j&oints  in  difpute,  and  fend  tiieir  orders  directly  to 
the  President  and  Council  of  Fort  ;St,  George,  to 
carry  their  decifion  into  efTe&r  If  they  cay  do  it, 
they  ought  to  do  it. 

On  a  firnUar  principle  of  reafon  and  juftice,  I  ob* 
jeA  -,to  the  mode  adopted  in  the  next  claufe,  for  the 
profeffed  purpofe  of  reinftating  certain  Rajahs,  Ze- 
fnindars,  Polygars,  and  other  landholders,  who 

have 


C     19    ] 

foave  been  difpoffeffed  of  their  lands.     The  claims 
&f  the  parties  are  to  be  referred  to  the  refpedtive 
Prefidencies,  who  are  to  inquire  info,  and  determine 
upon  them  :  that  is,  if  injuftice  has  been  done,  the 
perfons,  who  have  done  it,  are  to  repair  it  at  their 
difcretion.      Is  there  any  colour  of  propriety,  is 
there  any  prudence  in  fuch  a  delegation  of  power  ? 
.or  do  you  think  it  wo.uld  be  effectual '?  For  exam- 
ple, do  you  believe  that  any  orders  from  the  Court 
of  Directors,  or  even  from  the  higheft  power  ia 
this  country,  could  engage  Mr.  Haftings  to  liflen 
to  the  claims  of  the  Raja-k  of  Benares  ?  Can  he  be 
reafonably   deemed    an    impartial  judge    of    fuch 
claims  ?    He   has   told  the  Directors  *,    that   "  if 
"  they  ftiould  proceed  to  order  the  restoration  of 
"  Rajah  Cheyt  Sing,  and,  if  the  Council  Jhould  re^ 
4t  fohe  to  execute  the  order,  he  would  inftantly  give 
"  up  his  ftation  and  the  fervice."     He  fuppofes  it 
will  be  a  queftion  in  the  Council,  whether  the  order 
.of  the  Directors  {hall  be  executed  or  not ;  and  he 
fa-irly  apprifes  thera  of  his  own  refolution  to  oppofe 
it.     For  my  own  part,  I  am  perfuaded  that  he  would 
hazard  his-  life  rather  than  fubtnit  to  carry  the  order 
k?to  execution  himfelf.     Yet,  if  ever  there  was  a 
cafe  that  called  upon  the  national  honour  and  huma- 
nity for  juftice  and  protection,  affuredly  it  is  that  of 
the  Rajah  of  Benares. 

The  next  claufe  is  material  indeed.     The  wellr 
being,  if  not  the  exiftence  of  the  natives  of  al.i 

*  aoth  March,  1783. 

JD  2  your 


C      2°      3 

your  Eaftern  Dominions,  depends  on  a  firm  eftablifh- 
ment  of  that  principle  of  taxation,  which  appears  to 
be  the  object  of  the  claufe.  Ever  fince  I  have 
known  any  thing  of  the  fubject,  or  had  an  oppor- 
tunity of  offering  an  opinion  about  it,  it  has  been, 
the  labour  and  effort  of  my  life  to  inculcate  and 
cftablifti  the  truth  of  this  propofition  —  thai  the.  tri- 
bute, rent,  fervice,  or  payment  to  be  paid  by  tkefevtral 
landholders,  of  whatever  denomination,  Jhould  be  fixe<% 
and  unalterable.  The  profefled  object  of  this  claufe 
is  the  real  object,  and  refult  of  every  conclufion,  that 
my  underftanding  is  capable  of  deducing  from  ex- 
perience and  reflection.  The  means,  taken  to  accom- 
plifh  it,  are  the  very  worft  that  could  be  thought  of* 
After  twenty  years  pofleffion  of  the  Dewanny,  after 
twenty  years  collection  of  the  revenues,  the  fixation 
of  the  rents  is  (till  to  be  a  queflion  for  future  invef- 
tigation.  — —  Good  God!  Sir,  are  thefe  inquifitions 
into  the  property  of  our  Indian  fubj  efts -—are  thefe 
fcrutinies  into  the  value  of  their  eftates  never  to 
have  an  end  !  Are  the  natives  of  India  never  to  have 
a  quietus  under  an  Englifh  Government !  —  In  the 
year  1784  you  order  the  Governments  abroad  to  de- 
•vi fe  fuch  methods  asjhall  to  them  feem  moft  fitting  and 
convenient  to  ejlablijk  a  fixed  find  unalterable  tribute  ! 
The  language  held  by  the  Directors,  feven  years 
ago,  on  a  fimilar  occafion,  is  wifer  and  more  hu- 
mane than  yours,  and  ought  to  be  a  lefTon  to  you. 
In  July,  1777,  fpeaking  of  a  new  mode  of  inquifi- 
tion  propofed  and  eflablifhed  by  Mr.  Haftings,  they 
faid,  "  In  the  prefent  flate  of  the  bufinefs,  our  fur- 

"  prife 


[  «  1 

f*  prife  and  concern  were  great  on  finding,  by  our 
fc  Governor  General's  minute  of  the  firft  of  No- 
'*  vember,  1776,  that,  after  more  than  feven  years 
"  inveiligation,  information  is  ftill  fo  incomplete, 
?e  as  to  render  another  innovation,  ftill  more  extra- 
*t  ordinary  than  any  of  the  former,  abfolutely  ne- 
"  ceflary  to  the  formation  of  a  new  fettlement." 

But  the  prefent  courfe,  it  feems,  is  taken,  in  or- 
der to  prevent  any  corrupt  or  opprejfive  practices.  — 
Sir,  the  Court  of  Directors  are  in  pofTeffion  of  an- 
nual accounts  of  the  revenues  of  Bengal  fmce  the 
year  1766.  They  have  an  account  before  them  of 
the  demand,  receipt,  and  balance  of  every  refpec- 
tive  year.  In  ihort,  Sir,  they  poffefs  every  poffible 
light  and  information  on  the  fubject,  which  the 
Government  of  Bengal  ought  to  look  for,  or  would 
be  able  to  obtain.  They  may  take  the  collections 
of  any  one  year  for  a  ftandard,  or,  what  is  much 
better,  they  may  take  an  average  of  the  collections 
of  feveral  years,  and  determine  at  once,  and  for 
ever,  what  all  the  principal  diftricts  ftiall  invariably 
pay.  Perhaps  it  may  be  neceffary,  though  I  do  not 
think  it  will,  to  leave  fome  parts  of  the  minuter 
distribution  to  the  power  upon  the  fpot.  The  lefs 
you  leave  to  it  the  better.  The, only  danger  of  the 
mode  I  propofe,  or  of  any  mode  of  fixation  that 
can  be  propofed,  is  this  —  that,  take  what  period  or 
what  average  you  will,  confidering  the  daily  and 
rapid  decline  of  the  country,  the  amount  of  reve- 
nue, fo  taken,  will  prove  too  much.  The  ftatc  of 
the  country,  and  of  the  people,  calls  as  loudly  for 

abate- 


C   »  3 

y'       nbatjrfient,  as  the  neceffities  of  the  Company  call  for 
increafe  of  revenue. 

This,  Sir,  is'  the  true  way  to  prevent  corrupt  or 
opprejive  practices.  If  you  refer  it  to  the  fervants 
abroad  to  devife  the  methods,  and  then  to  tranfmit 
their  proceedings  and  determination  to  the  Court  of 
Directors  for  their  final  orders  and  directions  :  —  in» 
the  firft  place,  the  delay  of  itfelf  is  a  new,  or,  ra-. 
ther,  a  continued  a<9:  of  oppreffion  to  the  natives  ; 
but  what  is  much  worfe,  your  meafures  are  oppofed 
ta  your  experience  : — you  unneceiTarily  give  powers, 
which  you  know,  or  ought  to  know,  have  been  con- 
ftantly  abufed,  One  example,  if  there  were  no 
other,  ought  to  deter  you  from  replacing  a  fimilar 

\J  truft  in  fimilar  hands,  I  have  a  right  to  aflert, 
though  not  from  my  own  knowledge,  that  the  five* 
years  fettl-ement  of  the  revenues  of  Bengal,  made 
in  the  year  1772,  was  fold  by  the  Committee  of 
Circuit.  The  fa<fl  is  notorious  in  India ;  but  it  is 
on  the  authority  of  the  Court  of  Directors  that  I 
affirm  it  to  be  true.  In  their  ktter  of  the  4th  of 
March,  1778,  they  ordered  the  Governor  General 
and  Council  forthwith  to  commence  a  prosecution  In  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Judicature  againft  the  perfons  wko 
cempofed  the  Committee  of  Circuit)  or  their  repre-. 
N  fentatives*. 

I  do  not  doubt  that  the  fubfequent  claufe,  for  fe- 
curing  the  penfions  allotted  to  fome  of  the  Zemin- 

*    This   letter  is  figned  by  the  prefcnt  Chairman  and  Deputy 
Chairman  of.  the  Court  of  Directors,  Mr.  Smith  and  Mr.  Dweynes. 

dars 


C    *3    ] 

dars  in  lieu  of  their  lands,  was  drawn  up  with  a  be- 
nevolent intention ;  but  I  believe  the  fad:  it  refers 
to  is  mifunderftood.  The  £rft  and  leading  effort  o£ 
national  juftice  ihould  be  to  reinftate  the  proprie- 
tors,  of  every  denomination,  in  the  pofleffion  of 
their  property.  The  very  meafure,  that  forced  thefe 
penfions  on  the  Zemindars,  was  an  act  of  the  moii 
defpotic  oppreffion.  The  rents  demanded  of  them, 
for  this  very  purpofe,  were  fo  high,  that,  rather 
than  be  anfwerable  for  fums  which  they  knew  their 
lands  could  not  afford,  they  accepted  of  penfions, 
and  furrendered  the  pofleffion  and  management  of 
their  eftates  to  ftrangers,  to  farmers,  to  adventurers, 
to  the  banyans  of  the  Piefident  and  Council  of  Fort 
William.  Is  it  other-wife  to  be  believed,  that  any 
man  in  his  fenfes  would  give  up  his  landed  eft  ate  for 
a  penfion,  to  be  held  at  the  pleafure  of  an  arbitrary 
Government  ?  —  Do  juftice  to  thefe  people,  and 
tfeere  will  be  no  foundation  for  this  claufe. 

It  is  proper  and  neceflary  that  the  Court  of  Di- 
rectors (hou4d  be  reftrained  from  fending  any  -new 
fervant,  civil  or  military,  to  India,  until  the  efla- 
blifhments  are  fixed  ;  and,  when  they  are  fixed,  it 
is  equally  proper  that  the  Directors  mould  be  re- 
ftrained from  fending  out  writers,  cadets,  or  others, 
beyond  the  number  neceflary  to  fill  up  vacancies  as 
they  happen.  The  fervice  is  overloaded  with  ufe- 
icfs  fcrvants  :  they  are  a  burthen  to  the  Government, 
and  they  conftitute  a  tax  of  tjie  worft  fort  upos  the 
country. 

Thej* 


C     *4    1 

There  feems  to  be  no  occafion  fdr  a  law  to  con- 
firm an  exiftmg  rule  of  the  Company's  fervice.  It 
is,  and  always  has  been,  eftabljfhed,  that  promo- 
tions fhould  be  made  according  to  feniority.  The 
latitude  given  in  the  exception  is  perfectly  unnecef- 
fary,  as  well  as  incorrectly  worded*.  The  Go- 
vernments abroad  are  ready  enough  to  find  urgent 
vccafion  to  deviate  from  the  general  rule.  The  vote  in 
Council  is  the  very  act  of  deviation,  not  the  me- 
dium through  which  they  fee  caufe  for  it. 

The  next  claufe  may  properly  be  combined  with 
another,  which  flands  at  a  diftance  from  it ;  I  mean- 
to  confider  the  fixty-feventh  and  eighty-ninth  claufes- 
together.  By  the  former  no  perfon,  beyond  a  cer- 
tain age,  is  to  be  fent  to  India  as  a  cadet  or  writer  ; 
but  no  reafon  for  the  limitation  is  affigned.  By  the 
latter,  no  perfon  whatfoever,  who  lhall  have  been 
employed,  in  any  capacity  whatfoever,  in  the  Eaft 
Indies,  fhall  be  capable  of  being  appointed  to  any. 
ftation  or  office  in  India,  after  he,  having  returned 
to  this  kingdom,  fhall  have  refided  at  home  a  cer- 
tain time,  unlefs  it  be  proved  that  fuch  refidence 
was  neceflary  for  his  health  :  fo  that  the  worft  man 
in  the  fervice  is  capable  of  being  reinflated,  provi- 
ded he  refigned  it  on  account  of  his  health ;  whereas 
an  able  and  meritorious  fervant,  who  may  have  been 
obliged  to  come  to  England,  and  to  refide  here 
longer  than  the  limited  period,  for  the  mofl  urgent 

*  The  terms  of  the  exception  are,  '•  unlefs  any  of  the  (aid  Go- 
«'  Vernments  and  Prefidencies  lhall,  on  any  very  urgent  occafion,  by 
"  a  vote  in  Council,  fee  caufcto  deviate  from  the  faid  general  rule."' 

and 


C   *5   3 

and  juftifiable  reafons,  though  not  for  ill  health,  is 
utterly  prohibited  from  returning  to  a  fervice,  to 
which  he  may  have  devoted  his  life,  and  for  which 
he  may  have  relinquimed  all  other  profpedts  and 
purfuits.  I  fee  no  reafon  for  the  diftin&ion.  There 
is  no  pofitive  merit  in  ficknefs,  though  it  has  a  na- 
tural claim  to  indulgence.  One  would  think  that 
the  executive  power  of  the  Company,  if  the  Court 
of  Directors  are  equal  to  any  of  their  duties, 
might  fafely  be  trufled  with  fuch  details  as  thefe. 
It  is  not  an  object  that  apparently  requires  the 
interpofition  of  the  Legiflature :  but  if  it  did, 
the  proper  and  ufeful  regulation  would  be,  not  ab- 
folutely  to  prohibit  abfentees  from  returning  to  the 
fervice,  but  to  prevent  their  gaining  rank  in  their 
abfence  over  thofe,  who  continued  to  do  their  duty 
on  the  fpot.  Whoever  flayed  in  England,  beyond 
the  limit  of  a  reafonable  leave  of  abfence,  mould 
return  precifely  to  the  rank  he  held  when  he  left 
India. 

Taking  the  operation  of  the  two  claufes  together, 
the  refult  feems  to  be,  that,  in  the  firft  inftance,  no 
man,  who  mail  have  acquired  knowledge  or  expe- 
rience in  England,  mail  be  permitted  to  go  India  ; 
and  that  no  man,  who  may  have  acquired  know- 
ledge and  experience  in  India,  mall  be  permitted  to 
return,  unlefs  his  faculties  have  been  fufficiently 
impaired  by  his  infirmities,  to  qualify  him  for  re- 
fuming  the  duties  of  his  flation.  The  favourite 
idea  feems  to  be,  that  youth  and  inexperience  ihould 
govern  Bengal.  An  old  maxim  of  policy  attaches 
E  experience 


[      26      1 

experience  to  years,  and  wifdom  to  experience  ;  and 
though  I  know  there  is  a  brilliant  exception  to  this 
maxim,  I  vvifli  it  to  be  left  where  it  ftands — a  bril- 
liant exception  to  a  general  principle,  and  not,,  that 
the  exception  fhould  be  converted  into  a  rule. 

Nothing  can  be  objected  to  the  principle  and 
purpofe  of  that  claufe,  which  makes  all  offences 
committed  by  Britilh  fubjects  in  every  other  part 
of  India,  or  under  pretence  of  the  order  of  any  native 
protected  Prince,  amenable  to  the  fame  laws,  and 
liable  to  the  fame  penalties,  as  if  they  had  been  com- 
mitted within  the  territories  direftly  fubject  to  the  Bri- 
tljh  Government.  At  the  fame  time,  there  will  be  a 
legal  difficulty  in.  the  proceeding,  which  gentlemen 
of  the  profemon  would  do  well  to  confider.  The 
procefs  of  our  courts  of  juftice  does  not  run  beyond 
the  limits  of  our  own  provinces ;  fo  that,  although 
the  party  accufed  may  be  in  your  power,  the  wit- 
nefles  neceffary  to  convict  or  acquit  him  cannot,  in 
any  regular  courfe  of  proceeding,  be  compelled  to 
appear.  If  this  difficulty  be  not  provided  for,  there 
can  be  no  trial  of  the  offences  in  queilion. 

On  the  fubjecl:  of  prefents,  my  opinion,  perhaps, 
may  be  thought  particular.  Forms  and  appearances, 
I  know,  are  againft  it.  Undoubtedly  the  Governor 
General  and  Council,  the  Judges,  and  any  others 
who  have  great  eftablifhed  falaries,  mould  derive 
no  other  advantage  from  their  flation.  With  refpcct 
to  them,  the  prohibition  of  prefents  is  proper ;  but 
it  ought  to  be  complete.  I  can  arTure  the  Houfe, 
that  the  exception  in  favour  of  prefents  of  cere- 
mony 


[      27      3 

mony  on  folemn  occajions,  is  founded  on  ideas  which  I 
know  to  be  fallacious.     The  acceptance  of  ceremo- 
nial prefents  is  no  way  neceffary  for  fupporting  the 
dignity  of  men  in  power,  nor  has  the  refufal  of  them' 
ever,    given   offence.     General  -Clavering,    Colonel 
Monfon,  and  I,  conftantly  refufed  them.     We  told 
the  natives,  it  was  againft  the  law  of  England,  the 
very    law  by  which  we  were  appointed,  and  they 
were   fatisfied.      Mr.  Haltings   declared,    that   he 
ihould  continue  to  receive  mtzzers,  and  carry  them 
to  the  Company's  account.     Our  other  honourable 
colleague,  who  is  now  a  Member  of  the  Houie,  en- 
tirely approved  of  the  honourable  Prefident's  conduct  in 
the  receipt  of  complimentary  nuzzers  :  but  he  did  not 
equally  approve  of  accounting  for  them  to  the  Com- 
pany.    His  words  are  ;  f{  I  might  here  make  a  ten- 
"  der  to  the  Public  of  the  trivial  nuzzers,  to  the 
"  acceptance  of  which  my  ftation  has  impelled  me. 
"  But  what  is  proper  for  the  Governor  General, 
"  would  in  mg,  I  apprehend,  appear  rather  in  the 
<f  light  of  .a  confequential,   infignificant  difplay  of 
"  rigidnefs  in  excefs  !"     In  Mr.  Haftings's  letters 
you  have  feen  fome  fplendid  examples  of  the  fub- 
lime.     The  honourable  gentleman,  whofe  words  I 
have  juft  repeated,  fucceeds  better  in  the  profound. 
It  is  his  forte.     Thefe  trivial  prefents  accumulate 
very  faft.     If  I  had  laid  myfelf  out  for  the  receipt 
of  them,    I  have    no  doubt,  that  while   I  was  in 
Bengal  I  might  have  realifed  eight  or  nine  thoufand 
pounds  from  this  petty  fource  of  profit.     To  men 
in  high  ftation,  the  prohibition  Ihould  be  abfolute. 
£2  n 


C     *8     ]. 

Iii  all  flations,  it  ihould  be  highly  penal  to  receive 
money  for  corrupt  purpofes,  or  to  extort  it.  In 
the  ordinary  tranfaction  of  bufinefs,  I  am  inclined 
to  think  that  prefents  are  not  dangerous,  and  I  know 
that  .they  are  ufeful.  The  Government  of  Bengal, 
through  all  its  gradations,  is  a  Government  of  favour, 
not  of  juflice.  Nothing  would  ever  be  done  for 
the  natives,  if  they  did  not  gratify  the  perfons  who 
forwarded  their  affairs.  Whenever  there  fliall  be  a 
Government  of  flrict  juflice  in  Bengal,  and  when- 
ever provifion  fliall  be  made  for  the  various  offices 
under  it,  proportioned  to  their  refpective  rank  and 
power,  you  may  totally  abolifh  prcfents.  Till  then, 
you  neither  can,  nor  ought  to  do  it  —  till  then,  the 
oaths  you  prefcribe  to  the  collectors  of  the  revenue 
will  bind  none  but  men  of  honour.  Men  of  a  dif- 
ferent character  will  either  totally  disregard  the  pro- 
hibition, or  fatisfy  their  fcruples,  if  they  have  any, 
by  accommodating  the  exception  to  all  cafes,  or 
all  cafes  to  the  exception.  For  the  .purpofe  of  re- 
ceiving prefents  of  ceremony,  all  occafions  will  be 
found  fufficiently  folemn. 

By  the  lixty-ninth  claufe,  the  whole  gift  or  pre- 
fent  is  to  be  forfeited  to  the  King  •  by  the  feven- 
tiethj  the  court  of  juftice  may  order  the  gift  to  be 
reftorcd  to  the  party  who  gave  it.  Can  the  fame 
prefent,  fuppoling  it  were  a  diamond,  be  forfeited 
to  the  Crown  and  reftored  to  the  owner ;  or  is  it 
meant  that  the  offender  mall  forfeit  double  the  value 
in  every  inftance  ?  —  The  two  claufes  feern  to  me 
to  contradict  one  another. 

The, 


[    *9    1 

The  feventy-firft  makes  an  exception  in  favour  of 
counfellors  at  law,  phyficians,  furgeons,  or  chap- 
lains ;  but  it  takes  no  notice  of  attornies,  who  are 
much  more  in  the  receipt  of  fees  than  any  of  .the 
others. 

With  refpect  to  tke  wilful  difobeying,  or  the  wil- 
fully omitting  to  execute  the  Company's  orders,  if  there 
be  no  material  inflances  of  the  difobedience  alluded 
to,  the  law  that  propofes  to  punifh  it  hereafter  is  fu- 
perfluous  and  unjufl.  The  Legiflature  interpofes  be- 
fore it  is  called  upon  :  —  it  fuppofes  offences,  which 
are  not  flated,  and,  by  fuppofmg  them  to  exift  ge- 
nerally, it  confounds  the  innocent  with  the  guilty. 
If  they  do  exift,  to  a  degree,  that  warrants  and  de- 
mands the  interpoiition  of  the  Legiflature,  they 
ought  to  be  punifhed  as  well  as  forbidden  ;  at  leaft 
the  offenders  ought  to  be  removed  from  their  places. 
When  the  laws  prohibit  on  one  fide,  and  perfect  im- 
punity encourages  on  the  other,  is  it  reafonable  to 
expedt  that  the  prohibition  mould  be  regarded  ?  — 
The  minds  of  men  will  be.  determined  by  what  you 
do,  not  by  what  you  fay  ;  and  the  more  you  threaten, 
the  more  you  will  be  defpifed. 

The  two  next  claufes  give  a  moft  exorbitant 
and  formidable  power  to  the  Governor  General  and 
Council,  and  to  the  fubordinate  Prefidencies ;  even 
to  Bencoolen  / —  All  perfons  fufpeRed  of  carrying  on 
any  illicit  -commerce  or  correfpondence  with  any  body, 
may  be  feized,  impriibned,  and  detained  in  cuftody 
by  the  Governor's  warrant,  until  the  Governor  and 
Council  ihall  think  fit  to  bring  them  to  trial,  or  fend 

them 


C    30    ] 

them  to  England.  No  fact  is  Hated,  or  even  allu- 
ded to,  that  rr^ight  require  the  delegation  of  fo  dan- 
gerous a  truft.  I  declare,  that  while  I  was  in  India, 
there  never  was  an  inftance  fit  to  be  named  as  the 
foundation  of  fuch  a  law  as  this ;  nor  have  I  heard' 
of  any  fince.  Correfpondence  with  the  enemies  of 
the  State  is  high  treafon ;  and  trcafon  may  be  pu- 
niihed  without  a  new  law.  But  what  do  you  mean 
by  illicit  commerce?  What  tranfaction  is  there  in 
life  which  an  arbitrary  Government  may  not  inter- 
pret into  an  illicit  commerce?  Do  you  mean  to  deny 
the  parties  the  benefit  of  the  Habeas  Corpus  ?  Do 
you  mean  to  leave  it  to  the  difcretion  of  the  Go- 
vernor and  Council  at  what  time  the  party  fhall  be 
tried,  or  to  their  option  whether  he  fliall  be  tried  on 
the  fpot,  or  fent  a  prifoner  to  England  ?  No,  Sir ; 
I  know  perfectly  well  what  is  meant.  The  liberty 
of  every  individual  in  India  is  to  be  held  at  the 
mercy  of  the  Governor  General.  The  claufe  has 
no  real  object,  but  to  increafe  his  perfonal  power, 
and  to  make  it  irrefiftible. 

I  have  now  gone  through  the  fecond  divifion  of 
the  bill.  Before  I  proceed  to  the  third,  I  have 
an  appeal  to  make  to  the  honour  and  to  the  juftice 
of  the  Houfe.  It  is  of  a  nature  fo  perfonal,  that 
it  will  probaby  excite  their  curiofity ;  but  it  is  alfo 
connected  with  the  public  fervice.  It  has  a  natu- 
ral and  a  neceffary  relation  to  the  general  object  of 
the  prefent  bill,  and  therefore  deferves  their  atten- 
tion. It  concerns  the  fervice  of  the  public  in  fu- 
ture, that  the  character  of  men,  who  have  faith- 
fully 


fully  and  honourably  difcharged  the  duties  of  a 
high  ftation,  fliould  be  protected  from  reproach. 
The  infults,  offered  to  the  memory  of  fuch  men, 
contribute  to  deter  others  from  following  their  ex- 
ample, are  injurious  to  the  community,  and  ought 
to  be  refented  with  univerfal  indignation.  It  is 
not  of  myfelf  I  (peak ; — that  fpirit  of  preemption 
does  not  belong  to  me.  I  am  proud  of  the  fortune, 
that  connected  my  name  and  united  my  labours 
with  thofe  of  Clavering  and  Monfon,  and  it  is  all 
the  diftinction  I  pretend  to. 

When  I  fought  to  obtain  a  feat  in  the  Houfe  of 
Cpmmons,  it  was  not  merely  for  th,e  honour  pf  fit- 
ting here,  nor  for  any  delight  I  take  in  your  de- 
bates. With  refpect  to,  India  affairs,  my  firft  view 
was,  not  to  ferve  England  or  the  India  Company; 
but  the  natives  of  India  if  I  could.  To  them  I  am 
bound  by  every  obligation  of  juftice,  gratitude,  and 
companion.  From  them  I  received  the  (alary,,  which 
gave  me  a  fortune.  But,  even  if  the  fervice  of  Eng- 
land had  been  my  only  object,  this  is  the  courfe  I 
fhould  have  taken  to  purfue  it.  I  will  not  appeal 
to  your  virtues,  or  fuppofe  that  you  have  any.  If 
you  have  common  fenfe,  if,  as  interefted  men,  you 
underftand  your  own  intereit,  you  will  treat  the 
creatures,  fubject  to  your  power,  with  lenity  and 
juftice.  If  wealth  be  your  object,  you  will  protect 
the  induftry,  you  will  nurfe  and  cheriih  the  eftate, 
by  which  you  expect  to  be  enriched. 

My  fecond  reafon  for  obtaining  a  feat,  in  Parlia- 
ment was  to  have  an  opportunity  of  explaining  my 

own 


C    3*    ] 

<ywn  conduct,  if  it  fliould  be  queftioned,  or  df- 
fending  it,  if  it  fliould  bt  attacked.  The  laft,  and 
not  the  leaft  urgent  reafon  was,  that  I  might  be 
ready  to  defend  the  ehara&er  of  my  colleagues, 
not  againft  fpecific  charges,  which  I  am  fure  wil! 
never  be  produced  ;  but  againft  the  language  of 
calumny,  which  endeavours  to  afperfe,  without 
daring  to  accufe.  It  is  well  known  that  a  grofs  and 
public  infult  has  been  offered  to  the  memory  of 
General  Clavering  and  Colonel  Monfon,  by  a  per- 
fon  of  high  rank  in  this  country.  I  was  happy 
when  I  heard,  that  my  name  was  included  in  it  with 
theirs.  So  highly  do  I  refpect  the  character  of 
thofe  men,  that  I  deem  it  an  honour  to  lhare  in 
the  injuftice  it  has  fuffered.  —  It  is  in  compliance 
with  the  forms  of  the  Houfe,  and  not  to  fhelter 
Riyfelf,  or  out  of  tendernefs  to  the  party,  that-  I 
forbear  to  name  him.  I  mean  to  dcfcribe  him  fo 
exactly,  that  he  cannot  be  miflaken.  He  declared 
in  his  place  in  a  great  afiembly,  and  in  the  courfe  of 
a  grave  deliberation,  "  that  it  would  have  been 
"  happy  for  this  country,  if  General  Clavering, 
"  Colonel  Monfon,  and  Mr.  Francis,  had  been 
\  *'  drowned  in  their  paffage  to  India."  —  If  this 
poor  and  fpiteful  invedtive  had  been  uttered  by  a 
man  of  no  confequence  or  repute,  by  any  light, 
trifling,  inconfiderate  perfon,  by  a  Lord  of  the 
Bedchamber  for  example,  or  any  of  the  other  filken 
iBarons  of  modern  days,  I  fhould  have  heard  it  with 
ndifference.  But  when  it  is  feriouily  urged  and  deli- 
berately infilled  on  by  a  grave  Lord  of  Parliament — 

by 


[    33     J 

by  a  Judge, — by  a  man  of  ability  and  eminence  in 
his  profeffion,  whofe  perfonal  difpofition  is  ferious, 
who  carries  gravity  to  fternefs,  and  flernefs  to  fe- 
rocity, it  cannot  be  received  with  indifference,  or 
anfwered  without  refentment.  Such  a  man  will  be 
thought  to  have  inquired  before  he  pronounced. 
From  bis  mouth,  a  reproach  is  a  fentence,  an  invec- 
tive is  a  judgement.  —  The  accidents  of  life,  and 
not  any  original  diftin&ion  that  I  know  of,  have 
placed  him  too  high,  and  me  at  too  great  a  diltance 
from  him,  to  admit  of  any  other  anfwer  from  me, 
than  a  public  defiance,  for  General  Clavering,  for 
Colonel  Monfon,  and  for  myfelf.  This  is  not  a 
party  queftion,  nor  ihould  it  be  left  to  fo  feeble  an 
advocate  as  I  am  to  fupport  it.  —  The  friends  and 
fellow  foldiers  of  General  Clavering  and  Colonel 
Monfon  will  affi-ft  me  in  defending  their  memory. 
I  demand  and  expedt  the  fupport  of  every  man  of 
honour  in  this  Houfe,  and  in  the  kingdom.  What 
character  is  fafe,  if  flander  be  permitted  to  attack 
the  reputation  of  two  of  the  molt  honourable  and 
-virtuous  men  that  ever  were  employed,  or  ever  pe- 
rilhed  in  the  fervice  of  their  country  ?  —  I  know 
that  the  authority  of  this  man  is  not  without 
weight;  but  I  have  an  inilnkely  higher  authority 
to  oppofe  to  it.  I  had  the  happinefs  of  hearing  .the 
merits  of  General  Clavering  and  Colonel  Monfon 
acknowledged  and  applauded  in  terms,  to  which  I 
am  not  at  liberty  to  do  more  than  to  allude.  They 
were  rapid  and  expreffive.  I  mull  n^t  venture  to 
repeat  leaft  I  ihould  do  them  injuflice,  or  violate 
F  the 


C    34    ] 

the  forms  of  refpeft,  where  effentially  I  owe  and 
feel  the  moft.  But  I  am  fufficiently  underflood. 
The  generous  fenfations,  that  animate  the  Royal 
mind,  are  eafily  diftinguiftied  from  thofe,  which 
rankle  in  the  heart  of  that  perfon,  who  is  fuppofed 
to  be  the  keeper  of  the  Royal  confcience. 

The  third  divifion  of  the  bill  includes  the  inili- 
tution  of  a  new  judicature,  avowedly  repugnant  to 
all  the  principles  of  the  criminal  jurifprudence  of 
this  country,  and  of  which  there  is  no  example,  but 
the  Star  Chamber,  in  the  hiflory  of  England.  My 
furprife  and  difappointment,  when  I  heard  this  part 
of  the  bill  recommended  and  infilled  on  by  the 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  are  not  to  be  cxpref- 
fed.  Yet  I  might  have  been  in  fome  degree  pre- 
pared for  the  event.  This  is  not  the  firfl  inftance, 
in  which  I  have  obferved  that  the  right  honourable 
gentleman  is  never  more  urgent,  is  never  more  elo- 
quent in  eftablifhing  the  truth  of  a  general  propo- 
(ition,  or  in  exalting  the  virtues  of  a  general  princi- 
ple, than  at  the  moment  he  is  going  to  introduce  an 
exception  to  it.  —  No  man,  who  heard  him,  can 
have  forgotten,  how  earneilly  and  how  vehemently 
he  recommended  it  to  the  Houfe,  not  to  let  their 
anxiety  for  the  better  government  of  India,  how- 
ever laudable,  engage  them  to  do  any  thing  incon- 
liftent  with  the  fecurity  of  our  own  domeflic  efta- 
bliihment,  or  that  might  diredtly  or  indirectly  in- 
trench on  our  own  conflitution.  From  this  general 
Caution,  he  proceeded  to  a  warm  and  animated  pa- 
negyric of  the  trial  by  jury.  I  declare  moft  fo- 

lemnly 


[    35    3 

lemnly  that  I  thought  he  was  going  to  new  model 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Judicature  at  Calcutta,  and 
to  reflore  the  Britilh  fubjects  in  India  to  their  birth- 
right, of  which  they  were  deprived  by  the  charter 
of  that  Court,  for  no  good  purpofe  that  I  can  dif- 
cover,  but  certainly  without  any  good  effect.  When 
the  right  honourable  gentleman  had  thus  eftablifh- 
ed  his  premifes,  by  an  appeal  to  conftitutional  to- 
pics, which  always  gain  upon  an  Englifh  audience, 
he  turned  Ihort  to  a  conclufion,  which  I  imagine 
muft  have  difappointed  and  aftonifhed  every  man, 
who  was  not  immediately  in  the  fecret — "  That  the 
"  bed  general  rules  were  fubject  to  exceptions,  that 
"  neceffity  created  a  law  of  its  own,  and  that  fuch 
"  a  neceffity  exifted  at  prefent.  That  the  punifh- 
"  ment  of  Indian  delinquents  could  not  be  obtain- 
"  ed  by  proceedings  in  Parliament,  nor  by  profe- 
"  cution  in  the  courts  of  common  law, — -of  courfe 
"  that  there  was  no  alternative,  but  to  create  a  fpe- 
"  cial  judicature,  with  fummary  proceedings,  and 
"  without  the  intervention  of  a  Jury,  for  the  trial  of 
"  offences  committed  in  India." — In  the  firft  place, 
Sir,  I  deny  the  fuppofition,  on  which  the  inference 
is  founded.  I  have  no  doubt  that  delinquency  of 
every  kind  may  be  effectually  tried  and  punilhed  by 
the  judicatures  that  exift.  But  if  I  thought  other- 
wife,  —  if  I  were  perfe&ly  convinced  that  Indian 
delinquents  could  no  way  be  puniftied  but  by  a  vio- 
lent innovation  in  the  criminal  law  of  the  kingdom, 
I  would  not  purchafe  their  puniihment  at  fo  ruinous 
an  expence.  I  would  not,  for  the  fake  of  that  ob- 
F  ^  jeft, 


[    3«    3 

jedt,  though  I  think  it  important,  confent  to  a  breach 
of  any  kind  in  the  principal  barrier  of  the  freedom 
of  England.  When  the  precedent  is  eflablifhed,  I 
know  not  what  farther  innovations  may  be  gradually 
grafted  upon  it,  or  how  rapidly  it  may  advance  to 
the  deftru&ion  of  thofe  principles,  which  it  begins 
with  invading.  We  are  not  yet  however  reduced  to 
that  coniideration.  Let  us  try  whether,  in  effect, 
the  -right  honourable  gentleman  is  warranted  in  af- 
firming that  there  is  no  alternative.  If  there  be, 
the  principles  we  both  profefs  oblige  him  to  prefer 
it.  —  I  am  but  little  of  a  lawyer,  and  I  am  very  de- 
lirous  to  be  inftructed.  If  I  fhould  be  miilaken  in 
my  fadts,  fome  of  the  learned  gentlemen  oppofite  to 
me  will  have  the  goodnefs  to  corredt  me. 

Suppofmg  it  to  be  admitted,  that  taking  the  law 
as  it  now  ftands,  the  formality  of  pleading,  and  the 
difficulty  of  afcertaining,    according   to   the    find: 
rules  of  evidence,  fadits  which  have  arifen  beyond 
fea,  are  fuch  as  will  create  a  failure  of  juflice,  it 
does  not  follow,  that  it  is  at  all  neceffary  to  deprive 
perfons  accufed  of  offences  in  India  of  trial  by  Jury. 
The  Court  of  King's  Bench  has  already  the  power 
of  trying  mifdemeanors  committed  in  India,  under 
the  i3th  of  Geo.  III.  cap.  63.  with  tbe  afijlance  of 
a  Jury.     If  the  forms  of  pleading  and  the  rules  of 
evidence  {land  in  the  way  of  juftice,  let  the  law  be 
altered  :  —  with  rcfpect  to  fpecial  pleading  and  evi- 
dence,   let  the  King's  Bench  be  governed  by  the 
fame  rules  that  are  laid  down  to  govern  the  prac- 
tice of  this  new  Court ;  and  then  it  will  be  as  com- 
petent 


[    37    1 

pctent  as  this  can  be,  to  take  cognizance  of,  and 
punifti  offences  committed  in  India,  and  Hill  the  par* 
ty  accufed  will,  in  every  inftance,  have  the  privi- 
lege of  being  tried  by  his  peers.  When  the  act  of 
1774  was  made,  it  was  thought  necelfary  to  alter 
the  law  with  regard  to  evidence  :  and  it  was  accord- 
ingly enacted,  that  depofitions,  taken  under  a  com- 
miffion  in  India,  ihould  be  admitted  as  evidence  in 
the  King's  Bench ;  but  trial  by  jury  ilill  remained. 
The  Legiflature  did  nothing  to  affect  that  mode  of 
trial.  Before  that  ad:,  a  mifdemeanor  committed 
in  India  could  not  have  been  tried  upon  an  informa- 
tion in  the  King's  Bench,  fo  that  here  was  a  new 
jurifdiction  given  to  that  Court  ;  its  jurifdiction 
was  at  leaft  extended  to  offences  in  India,  which 
Were  before  not  cognizable  in  that  Court,  either  by 
information  or  indictment.  At  common  law,  trea- 
foris  committed  out  of  the  realm  were  not  punifh- 
able  in  England.  To  remedy  this  defect,  various 
acts  were  made  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VIII.  :  but 
even  iri  the  arbitrary  reign  of  that  Monarch,  no  at- 
tempt was  made  to  deprive  the  fubject  of  trial  by 
jury.  At  common  law,  murders  committed  in  fo- 
reign parts  could  not  be  inquired  into  in  England  ; 
but  by  the  33d  Henry  VIII.  cap.  23.  they  might  be 
inquired  of,  and  tried  by  the  King's  fpecial  commif- 
fion  in  England.  By  that  act  a  new  tribunal  was 
erected  ;  but  ftill  no  attempt  was  made  to  abolifti 
trial  by  jury.  Even  in  that  commijion  court,  the 
party  had  the  privilege  of  being  tried  by  his  peers. 
If  it  be  true,  that  a  new  fpecies  of  criminality  makes 

.  a  new 


a  new  courfe  of  proceeding  unavoidable,  the  ground 
of  the  diftmction  muft  be  fairly  and  clearly  efta- 
blilhed.  The  anfwer  I  expect  muft  not  be  techni- 
cal, but  plain  enough  to  fatisfy  the  underftanding 
of  men,  who  are  not  learned.  When  the  common 
intereft  is  at  flake,  the  common  fenie  of  the  nation 
ihould  be  confulted. 

A  word  or  two  more  on  the  general  fituation  of 
the  country,  and  I  have  done.  We  have  it  from 
the  authority  of  a  noble  Lord  *,  or  rather  of  a  no- 
ble convert,  whofe  opinions  very  properly  bend  to 
his  experience,  that,  at  a  former  period,  he  had 
oppofed  the  prefent  Adminiflration,  becaufe  he  dif- 
approved  of  the  courfes,  by  which  they  had  pof- 
feffed  themfelves  of  power ;  —  that  the  cafe  was  now 
completely  altered  ;  that  the  fenfe  of  the  nation  had 
been  unanimously  declared,  and  that  the  united 
voice  of  the  nation  could  not  be  refifted  ;  —  that  the 
Minifter  had  now  come  into  power,  at  the  front  door 
of  the  Houfe,  and  on  thejhoulders  of  the  People.  I  dp 
not  mean  to  difpute  the  truth  of  thefe  propofitions, 
much  lefs  the  propriety  of  any  change  of  opinion, 
that  may  be  founded  upon  them.  Take  the  fact  as 
it  is  ftated,  and  compare  it  with  the  confequences, 
which  it  has  immediately  produced.  Wherever 
ienfation  exifts,  the  comparifon  will  be  felt ;  and,  if 
men  are  ftill  capable  of  reflection,  it  will  force  them 
to  reflect.  The  very  firft  act  of  this  popular  Ad- 
minifcration,  of  a  Minifter,  who  comes  into  power 
gn  thejhoulders  of  the  People,  attacks  the  Democracy 

*  Lord  Delaval, 

of 


C    39    3 

of  the  country,  and  annihilates  the  firfl  of  all  the 
popular  powers  of  the  Conftitution.  The  decifion 
of  the  queflion  upon  the  Weftminfter  election,  how- 
ever it  may  be  turned,  or  in  whatever  colours  it  may 
be  drefled,  carries  you  finally  and  inevitably  to  this 
conclufion ;  that  the  People  of  Great  Britain  may 
be  governed  by  laws,  to  which  they  have  not  con- 
fented,  and  may  be  taxed  by  a  Houfe  of  Commons, 
in  which  they  are  not  reprefented.  If  this  be  the 
fad  of  Weftminfter  to-day,  why  not  of  London  to- 
morrow, —  of  Middlefex  the  next  ?  On  the  face  of 
the  precedent,  I  fee  nothing  to  confine  it. 

The  fecond  meafure  of  this  popular  Adminiftra- 
tion  attacks  the  trial  by  jury,  and  threatens  to  abo- 
liih  it.  Such  are  the  inftant  operations  of  that  very 
power,  which  pretends  to  be  derived  from  the  confi- 
dence of  the  People.  —  But  if  the  People  of  Eng- 
land are  not  mad  as  well  as  blind,  if  they  have  not 
loft  their  understanding  as  well  as  their  feelings,  they 
will  foon  fee  how  unwifely  they  have  beftowed  their 
confidence,  and  repent  of  their  delufion,  when  re- 
pentance is  too  late. 


HOUSE 


C    40    1 

HOUSE     OF    COMMONS, 

MONDAY,    July  27,    1784. 


«'  1  H  E  order  of  the  day  being  read,  for  taking 
*c  into  further  confideration  the  Report  from  the 
"  Committee  of  the  whole  Houfe,  to  whom  the 
te  Bill  for  the  better  regulation  and  management  of 
((  the  affairs  of  the  Eaft-India  Company,  and  of  the 
"  Britifh  poffeflions  in  India,  and  for  eltablifhing  a 
tc  Court  of  Judicature  for  the  more  fpeedy  and 
"  effectual  trial  of  perfons  accufed  of  offences  in 
"  the  Eafl  Indies,  was  .committed." 


Mr.  .    FRANCIS. 

Mr.  SPEAKER, 

My  objections  to  the  bill,  as  it  now  flands,  are  in 
fome  refpe&s  changed;  but  they  are  very  little  di- 
minilhed.  It  is  not  to  be  denied,  that  the  bill  has 
been  materially  altered,  and,  in  fome  inftances,  im- 
proved in  the  Committee.  Inftead  of  profefTmg 
candour,  which  too  often  is  affectation,  I  ihall 

fpeak 


[    4'     ] 

fpeak  of  the  prefent  merits  of  the  bill,  with  fin- 
cerity.  I  allow  that  fcveral  claufes  have  been 
prudently  corrected,  and  others  very  properly 
omitted ;  but  I  do  not  mean  to  admit,  that  parti* 
cular  improvements,  grafted  on  falfe  principles, 
can  effentially  mend  the  rheafure.  It  is  pomble 
that  a  thing,  which  is  wrong  in  one  extreme,  may  be 
equally  wrong  in  another.  In  acknowledging  the 
improvements  that  have  been  made,  I  hope  at  leafl 
to  eflablilh  a  claim  to  credit,  when  I  return  to  my 
objections. 

No  orders  are  now  to  be  fent  to  India  by  the 
Commiflioners  without  the  knowledge  of  the  Di- 
rectors, or  to  the  Commanders  in  Chief  in  India, 
without  the  knowledge  of  the  refpective  Prefiden- 
cies.  Orders  of  every  kind  are  now  to  be  conveyed 
through  the  proper  conftitutional  channels.  While 
you  fuffer  the  Court  of  Directors  to  exift,  their  au- 
thority belongs  to  the  conftitution  of  the  Company. 
To  pafs  by  the  firil  is  to  deftroy  the  fecond.  The 
abfurdity  of  that  idea  is  acknowledged  and  corrected. 
The  claufes,  by  which  the  appointment  of  the  feve- 
ral  Commanders  in  Chief,  and  of  perfons  to  fucceed 
to  the  command  in  cafe  of  vacancy,  was  to  be  given 
to  His  Majefty,  are  omitted.  Undoubtedly,  nothing 
could  be  more  extravagant  than  the  idea  of  feparating 
the  military  from  the  civil  power  of  the  Company's 
Government.  The  alteration  was  indifpenfably  ne- 
ceflary.  At  the  fame  time,  I  have  no  conception  how 
it  can  poffibly  be  reconciled  to  a  political  principle, 
which  a  right  honourable  gentleman,  in  opening  the 
G  »riginal 


original  plan  of  the  bill,  laid  down  as  fundamental. 
jHe  urged  and  infifted  on  the  truth  of  this  propofi- 
tion,  and  afferted  it  to  be  inherent  in  the  Kngliih 
conftitution,  that  the  armies  of  any  one  State,  how- 
ever they  might  be  divided,  or  wherever  they  might 
be  employed,  belonged  to  the  department  of  the 
executive  power,  and  that  therefore  the  appointment 
to  the  feveral  commands  of  the  Company's  forces 
fkould  unqueftionably  be  veiled  in  the  Crown.  He 
had  then  forgotten,  what  he  poffibly  may  fince  have 
recollected,  that  the  Court  of  Directors  are  in  fact 
the  executive  power  of  the  State  in  queftion.  But 
I  need  not  eombat  a  proportion,  which  he  himielf 
has  fo  completely  abandoned.  The  right  honoura- 
ble gentleman,  I  fee,  is  not  obflinately  tenacious  of 
his  principles,  or  his  complaifance  to  his  friends  muft 
be  unbounded. 

The  feveral  claufes  in  the  original  bill,  which  re- 
late to  the  private  debts  of  the  Nabob  of  Arcot 
and  the  Rajah  of  Tanjore  ;  —  the  reipeclive  claims 
or  undetermined  rights  and  pretcnfions  of  thole 
princes;  —  the  reinftatement  of  difpofferTed  Rajahs, 
Zemindars,  and  other  landholders ; — the  fixation  of 
the  rents  or  tributes  to  be  paid  in  future  ;  —  the  re- 
duction of  expences,  and  the  final  limitation  of  cfta- 
bjiihrnents,  offices,  and  emoluments  ; — are  all  com- 
pletely relinquifhed, — •!  will  not  prefume  to  fay,  in 
compliance  with  my  opinion,  but  a  good  deal  in 
conformity  to  it.  —  The  principle  I  recommended 
feems  to  be  generally  adopted,  that  whatever  can  be 
done,  immediately  by  the  Directors  at  home,  fliould 

not 


[     43     ] 

not  be  referred  to  the  fervants  abroad.  Yet  I  am 
forry  to  fee  that,  in  this  general  fweep,  the  very  belt 
claufc  of  the  firfl  bill  is  included.  I  mean  the  one 
marked  58,  by  which  it  was  provided  "  that  it 
"  fhould  not  be  lawful  for  the  Governor  General 
"  and  Council  of  Fort  William,  or  the  Governor 
"  and  Council  of  any  of  the  other  Presidencies,  or 
"  any  fervant  or  agent  of  the  faid  United  Com- 
"  pany,  of  what  defcription  or  denomination  foever, 
"  to  alter  fuch  tribute,  rent,  fervice,  or  payment 
(C  as  the  faid  Court  of  Directors  Ihould  have  finally 
"  confirmed,  upon  any  pretence  whatfoever,  or  to 
"  exact  from  or  impofe  upon  any  native  Prince,  dr 
"  his  heirs,  or  perfons  claiming  under  them,  any 
"  greater  or  different  tribute,  rent,  fervice,  or  pay- 
"  ment,  than  fuch  as  ihould  have  been  confirmed 
"  by  the  Court  of  Direftors." 

I  moft  earneftly  recommend  it  to  the  right  ho- 
nourable gentleman  to  reinftate  this  claufe,  or  to 
revive  the  fpirit  of  it,  in  terms  accommodated  to 
the  new  principle  which  appears  to  be  affumcd. 
The  tribute  once  fixed,  I  would  not  leave  it  in  the 
power  even  of  the  Directors  to  alter  it. 

The  claufe,  reflecting  prefents,  is  properly 
amended.  Wherever  the  prohibition  is  right,  it 
ought  to  Hand  without  exception.  Admitting  that 
prefents  were  really  and  purely  ceremonial,  in  my 
mind  they  degrade  the  dignity  of  a  high  flat  ion 
inftead  of  exalting  it.  What  in  fact,  and  even  in 
appearance,  can  be  more  difgraceful,  than  fofr  a 
Britiih  Governor  to  hold  out  his  hand  to  receive  a 
G  2  few 


C    44    ] 

few  gold  niohrs  or  rupees  from  every  native,  who 
comes  to  viiit  him,  and  frequently  from  perfons, 
who  are  unable  to  afford  it.  The  true  dignity  of 
power  is  to  be  acceflible  to  its  fubjects,  without  ex- 
pecting them  to  pay  for  it.  With  refpect  to  the 
fubordinate  ranks  of  the  fervice,  I  ft  ill  have  my 
doubts.  I  am  perfectly  fatisfied,  that  in  the  pre- 
fent  ftate  of  the  fervice,  no  law  can  prevent  the 
practice,  and  I  am  not  fure  that  you  ought  to  at- 
tempt it.  I  have  no  expectation  that  fuch  a  direct 
provifion  will  ever  be  made  for  the  Company's  fer- 
vants,  as  will  even  afford  them  a  fubfiflence  ;  much 
lefs  an  exceeding,  out  of  which  an  independence 
can  be  gradually  accumulated,  by  any  efforts  of 
oeconomy.  People  in  England  have  no  idea  of  the 
expence  of  living  in  Bengal.  There  is  no  fuch 
thing  as  commerce.  The  few,  who  have  engaged 
in  enterprifes  of  internal  induftry,  have  either  to- 
tally failed,  or  been  obliged  to  abandon  them  :  — 
and  the  falaries,  given  by  the  Company,  below  the 
Board  of  Trade  and  the  Colonels  of  Brigades,  are 
very  inconfiderable.  Yet  no  man  Ihould  be  cut  off 
from  the  hopes  of  a  reafonable  and  moderate  inde- 
pendence, in  proportion  to  his  ftation.  —  Human 
inftitutions  Ihould  confult  human  nature. 

I  believe,  Sir,  I  have  now  taken  notice  of  every 
material  amendment,  that '  deferves  commendation. 
The  other  branches  of  the  fubject  are  more  nume- 
rous and  productive. 

In  comparing  the  prefent  bill  with  the  firft,  there- 
is  one  general  preliminary  obfervation  to  be  made 

upon 


C    45     J 

upon  them  both  ;  that  the  two  bills  draw  t  .vo  con- 
clufions  equally  falfe,  though  perfe&ly  different, 
from  one  and  the  fame  falfe  principle  of  policy. 
The  principle,  common  to  them  both,  is,  that, 
where  power  is  really  wanted,  where  power  ought 
to  be  flrengthened,  the  fureft  way  to  ftrengthen  it 
will  be  to  divide  it.  On  this  foundation,  the  firft 
bill,  inftead  of  uniting  the  executive  powers  of  the 
Company  in  any  one  Board,  divided  them  between 
the  Commiflioners  and  the  Directors,  with  fo  great  a 
preponderance  in  favour  of  the  former,  that  the 
latter  in  reality  were  reduced  to  nothing  and  ought 
to  have  been  abolimed.  On  the  fame  foundation, 
the  prefent  bill  continues  to  divide  a  power,  which 
ought  to  be  united,  but  diflributes  it  differently.  The 
Crown  and  the  Commiflioners  furrender  almoft  eve- 
ry thing  they  had  taken,  and  the  Directors  are  re- 
invefled  with  a  power,  which  evidently  fuppofes 
them  fit  to  be  highly  trufled.  But  the  truft,  as  it 
{lands,  is  incompatible  with  the  control.  The  firft 
bill,  placing  no  confidence  in  the  Directors,  diverted 
them  of  all  power.  The  amended  bill  continues 
a  check,  in  which  the  fame  want  of  confidence  is 
implied,  yet  reflores  them  to  a  power,  which  ought 
never  to  be  given  to  men  who  are  diflrufled.  — 
With  refped:  to  the  governments  abroad,  the  means 
taken  to  accomplim  the  profeffed  objeft  of  both  the 
bills  are  nearly  the  fame.  In  :  order  to  make  the 
power  at  home  more  capable  of  governing,  they 
divide  it.  But,  in  order  to  make  the  power  in  In- 
dia more  governable,  they  ftrengthen  and  unite  it. 

This 


[    46    ] 

This  is  the  fenfe,  in  which  the  old  maxim,  divide 
et  imperil,  is  now  undcrftood.  This  is  the  way,  in 
which  ancient  maxims  of  policy  are  interpreted  and 
applied  by  modern  politicians. 

The  amended  bill  reduces  the  Prefidency  of  Fort 
William  to  a  Governor  General  and  three  Coun- 
iellors,  for  the  immediate  purpofe,  cxprtfsly  avow- 
ed by  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  of  giving 
effect  to  the  calling  voice,  in  order  to  incrcale  and 
ftrengthen  the  power  of  the  Governor  General. 
This,  I  believe,  is  the  firft  example  of  fuch  a  ufc 
and  application  of  the  effed:  of  a  calling  voice.  In 
all  deliberative  councils  and  affcmblies  whatever, 
the  true  and  natural  principle  of  dccifion  is  by  a  real 
majority  of  votes.  But  numbers,  who  debate,  may 
difagree ;  and,  if  the  whole  number  happens  to  be 
even,  they  may  poffibly  divide  into  equal  parts.  In 
that  cafe  only,  the  operation  of  the  cafting  voice  is 
made  ufe  of  to  create  a  fictitious  majority,  not  for 
the  purpofe  of  giving  power,  but  merely  to  obtain 
a  decifion.  —  Hitherto  the  cafting  voice  has  been 
confidered  as  a  neceflary  provifion  againft  a  poflible 
inconvenience.  The  prefent  bill  creates  the  incon- 
venience, not  merely  for  the  purpofe  of  correcting 
ft,  but  to  convey  a  power,  which,  if  proper  to  be 
given  at  all,  ought  to  be  given  by  a  direct  courfe, 
and  fecured  againft  accidents.  On  the  principle  of 
the  claufes  in  queflion,  the  Governor  General  ought 
to  be  a  diftinct  perfon,  and  veiled  with  powers  in- 
dependent of  the  Council.  —  As  long  as  a  Council 
of  four  is  full,,  the  whole  power,  that  belongs  to  it, 

will 


C    47     ] 

will  certainly  veft  in  the  Prefident,  provided  he  has 
(kill  enough  to  fecure  the  blind  and  devoted  fupport 
of  any  one  of"  the  other  three  ;  and  this,  I  know, 
may  be  done.  But,  fuppofe  his  complaifant  friend 
fhoujd  die  or  depart,  and  the  other  two  fhould  con- 
tinue obilinate  ;  —  the  declared  objed:  of 'the  bill  is 
defeated.  —  The  Preiident  is  reduced  to  a  ftate,  in- 
which  he  can  do  nothing  but  perplex  or  embarrafs 
the  others,  and  in  that  ilate  he  mull  remain,  until  - 
his  intereil  and  influence  at  home  fhall  have  accom- 
plifhed  another  appointment.  A  year  and  a  half  at 
lead  muft  elapfe,  before  his  nc\v  colleague  can  come 
to  his  affiftance.< — If  therefore  the  power  be  proper, 
the  bill  Ihould  take  care  to  provide  for  its  being  held 
and  exercifed  without  interruption.  —  Sir,  I  am  not 
fuppofmg  imaginary  cafes.  The  oppofition  to  Mr. 
Railings  has  not  been  confined  to  General  Clavering, 
Colonel  Monibn,  and  myielf.  His  prefent  col- 
leagues, Mr.  Wheler,  Mr.  Macpheribn,  and  Mr. 
Stables,  have  exactly  the  fame  opinion,  that  we  had, 
of  him  and  of  his  meafures.  Their  oppofition  is  as 
vigorous  as  tkev  can  make  it,  and,  I  believe,  more 
deeply  relented  by  Mr.  Railings,  than  ours. — From 
OHT  oppofition,  however  it  might  diftrefs  him,  he 
felt  no  degradation.  Of  his  prefent  colleagues  I 
know  he  has  written-  home  to  this  effect,  that  he 
Ihould  have  quitted  the  Government  long  ago,  if  he 
could  have  ventured  to  leave  it  in  fucb  hands  as 
theirs  ! 

Rut  perhaps  it  may  be  fufpcctcd  that  the  Chan- 
cellor of  the  Exchequer,  in  forming  this  arrange- 
ment, 


C  48   ] 

mcnt,  has  been  guided  by  experience,  and  that  he 
has  facts  of  importance  to  appeal  to  in  fupport  of  it. 
—  I  will  tell  the  Houfe  how  the  fads  fland,  and 
leave  it  to  their  judgement  to  compare  them  with 
the  arrangement.  Some  of  the  Directors  are  pre- 
fent, and  I  call  upon  them  to  fupport  me  if  I  am 
right,  or  to  contradict  me  if  I  am  wrong. 

Before  the  death  of  Colonel  Monfon,  the  Council 
confifted  of  five  perfon/s.  I  do  not  mean  at  prefent 
to  inquire  into  the  refpective  merits  of  the  two  par- 
ties, into  which  it  was  divided,  or  to  exalt  one  at  the 
cxpence  of  the  other.  For  the  immediate  purpofe 
of  the  prefent  argument,  it  is  fufficient  for  me  to 
fay,  what  every  man  in  India  and  in  the  direction 
knows  to  be  true,  that,  while  the  Government  of 
Bengal  was  in  the  hands  of  five  peribns,  the  Com- 
pany's affairs  were  prudently  conducted,  and  prof- 
pered  accordingly.  The  fyflem,  laid  down  in  their 
general  inftructions,  was  obferved  ;  —  their  orders 
\yere  obeyed  ;  —  their  debts  were  difcharged  ;  — 
their  treafury  was  filled  ;  —  and  great  investments 
were  provided  by  favings  out  of  the  revenue.  Above 
all  the  reft,  we  fxed  our  attention  to  the  prefervation 
of  peace  throughout  India.  We  maintained  it  our- 
felves,  and,  when  it  was  violated  by  the  Prefidency 
of  Bombay,  we  reflored  it  by  a  direct  interpofition 
of  the  authority  of  our  Government.  When  the 
death  of  Colonel  Monfon  had  reduced  the  Council 
to  four,  which  it  feems  is  now  the  favourite  number, 
the  mifchiefs,  which  have  fince  defolated  India  and 
ruined  the  India  Company,  began  to  operate.  The 

fecond 


t    49    3 

fecond  war  with  the  Marattas  was  planned  at  Bombay 
the  moment  they  heard  of  the  death  of  General 
Clavering,  and  received,  embraced,  and  promoted 
by  the  Governor  General  and  Council,  the  moment 
the  plan  was  communicated  to  us.  In  lefs  than  five 
months  after  the  death  of  General  Clavering,  the 
refolution  was  taken  at  Fort  William  to  break  the 
definitive  treaty  of  peace  concluded  but  a  year  be- 
fore at  Poorttndur,  and  to  fend  an  army  acrofs  India 
to  invade  the  Pefoiua's  dominions.  The  General's 
place  was  foon  fupplied  by  Mr.  Wheler,  fo  that, 
from  Colonel  Monfon's  death  in  Odtober  1776,  to 
the  arrival  of  Sir  Eyre  Coote  in  March  1779,  the 
Council  confifted  of  four  perfons,  excepting  an  in- 
terval bf  three  or  four  months,  in  which  I  ftood 
alone  againft  Mr.  Haftings  and  Mr.  Harwell ;  and  in 
that  period,  I  affirm  that  all  the  mifchiefs,  with 
which  you  are  now  opprefled,  took  their  birth,  and 
grew  into  effects,  which  by  this  time,  I  fear,  are 
not  to  be  retrieved. — Your  treafuries  are  empty  ;  — 
your  debts  are  infupportable ;  —  your  inveftment, 
when  you  have  any,  is  paid  for  by  bills  on  the  Com- 
pany, and  two  thirds  of  India  have  been  laid  wafte. 
With  thefe  fadts  before  you,  is  it  poffible  for  the 
Legiflature  to  reject  the  number,  under  which  the 
Company's  affairs  were  wifely  and  happily  conduc- 
ted m  India,  and  voluntarily  prefer  that,  under 
which  every  thing  has  been  done,  which  this  very 
law  profeffes  to  condemn,  and  moft  ftrongly  pro- 
hibits ? 

H  By 


[    5°    ] 

By  the  feVenteenth  and  eighteenth  claufes  of  the 
amended  bill,  the  fituation  of  a  Commander  in  Chief 
of  all  the  Company's  forces  in  India  isjiow  provi- 
ded for.  At  laft  it  has  been  difcovered,  that  fuch 
an  office  exifts.  I  have  no  objection  to  the  voice 
and  precedence  given  him  in  the  Supreme  Council, 
or  at  the  fubordinate  Councils  of  Fort  St.  George 
and  Bombay,  when  he  mall  happen  to  be  at  either 
of  them.  — -  But  I  flrongly  object  to  the  fituation, 
in  which  his  arrival  there  will  place  the  refpective 
Commanders  in  Chief  at  thofe  two  Prefkiencies. 
He  not  only  fuperfedes  them  in  rank,  but  reduces 
them  to  filence.  During  his  flay,  they  are  only  to 
have  a  feat,  but  no  voice,  in  the  Council.  The 
Houfe  will  obferve  that  this  is  a  civil  office,  not  a 
military  command ;  but,  even  on  the  flricteft  mili- 
tary ideas,  the  provifion  is  abfurd.  The  arrival  of 
a  fuperior  officer  difpofTeffes  the  inferior,  but  does 
not  annihilate  him  ;  he  ftill  continues  fecond  in 
command,  with  a  real  and  effective,  though  not  with 
an  equal  authority.  For  what  reafon  he  is  inftant- 
ly  to  be  converted  into  a  mute,  I  cannot  conceive. 
Naturally  he  ought  to  be  better  informed  than  a 
flranger  concerning  the  affairs  of  the  Prefidency, 
where  he  has  commanded.  But  the  object  of  the 
claufe  is  to  filence  the  perfon,  who,  having  the  beft 
information,  ought  to  be  fpecially  confulted.  It 
ought  to  be  confidered  too,  whether  gentlemen  of 
high  rank  in  the  army,  whether  a  general  officer  in 
the  King's  fervice,  who  may  happen  to  command 
upon  the  coaft,  be  likeiy  to  fubmit  to  this  fort  of 

treatment, 


E    5'     ] 

treatment,  or  how  far  it  may  wound  the  honourable 
feelings  and  fpirit  of  the  profeffion  ? 

Sir,  I  fhall  leave  the  remaining  regulations  of  the 
bill  to  other  gentlemen,  who  I  believe  have  confi- 
dered  them  with  proper  attention,  and  go  at  once 
to  that  article,  which,  I  confeis,  is  to  me  more  im- 
portant than  all  the  reft.  I  mean  the  new  judica- 
ture, which  the  bill  introduces  into  the  criminal 
law  of  this  country.  I  perceive  that,  in  the  appre- 
henfion  of  fome  gentlemen,  this  part  of  the  bill  has 
been  considerably  corrected  and  improved  by  the 
amendments  made  in  the  Committee,  and  that  fome 
gentlemen,  who  objected  to  it  at  firft,  are  now  fatis- 
fied.  I  am  truly  forry  for  it ;  becaufe  I  wilh  that 
the  principle  of  every  meafure,  which  I  deem  to  be 
dangerous  to  the  constitution,  Ihould  appear  at  once 
to  the  public  view,  undifguifed,  in  its  real  lhape, 
and  in  the  colours  that  belong  to  it.  'They  deceive 
themfelves  groflly  who  imagine  that  that,  which  is 
effentially  wrong,  can  ever  be  formally  right.  It 
cannot  be  corrected  or  improved,  becaufe  the  defect 
is  in  the  eflence,  not  in  the  form.  And  why  fhould 
you  lay  afide  the  trial  by  jury  in  the  cafe  of  Indian 
delinquents?  I  have  yet  heard  no  one  affirmative 
reafon  afiigned  for  it.  Is  it  fufpected  that  a  Jury 
will  not  do  juftice  ?  You  have  no  ground  for  the 
fufpicion  ;  on  the  contrary,  in  the  only  cafe  in  point, 
in  the  only  cafe  of  Indian  delinquency  that  has  been 
profecuted  in  a  court  of  common  law,  the  Jury  did 
their  duty.  I  do  not  mean  to  enter  into  the  merits  of 
the  profecution  of  Mr.  Stratton  and  Mr.  Brooke  for 
H  2  dif. 


[   v   3 

difpofiefling  and  imprifoning  Lord  Pigot ;  it  is  fuf« 
ficient  for  my  prefent  purpofe  to  fay,  that  the  pub- 
lic in  general  thought  that  thofe  perfons  deferved  to 
be  feverely  puniflied,  and  expected  that  they  would 
be  fo.  Why  were  they  not  ?  The  Jury  did  their  part 
in  finding  them  guilty.  If  they  were  not  fufficiently 
puniflied,  it  was  the  fault  of  the  Bench.  Now,  ob- 
ferve  the  confequence  :  You  lay  afide  the  Jury,  who, 
in  the  only  inftance  in  point,  did  every  thing  that 
depended  on  them  to  bring  the  criminals  to  condign 
puniihment,  and  you  think  you  are  fure  of  juftice, 
in  uniting  the  incompatible  offices  of  Judge  and 
Jury  in  the  fame  perfons,  who,  the  only  time  they 
were  tried,  have  totally  difappointed  the  public  ex- 
pectation of  public  juftice.  But  all  reafon  and  ar- 
gument are  ufelefs  againft  power.  If  a  Britifli  Houfe 
of  Commons  can,  on  any  terms,  confent,  in  any  in* 
fiance,  to  abolifh  the  trial  by  Jury,  and  if  the  peo- 
ple at  large  are  infenfible  of  the  danger  of  fuch  a 
precedent,  individuals,  who  have  done  their  duty, 
muft  fubmit  to  their  fliare  in  the  mifchief,  which 
they  could  not  prevent.  I  fear  the  temper  and  cha- 
racter of  the  nation  are  changed.  Though  I  am  not 
an  old  man,  I  can  remember  a  time,  when  an  attempt 
of  this  nature  would  have  thrown  the  whole  king- 
dom into  a  flame.  Had  it  been  made  when  a  great 
man*,  who  is  now  no  more,  had  a  feat  in  this  Houfe, 
he  would  have  ftarted  from  the  bed  of  ficknefs,  he 
would  have  folicited  fome  friendly  hand  to  depofit 

*     he  late  Earl  of  Chatham. 

him 


[    53    3 

him  on  this  floor,  and  from  this  flation,  with  a  mo- 
narch's voice,  would  have  called  the  kingdom  to 
arms  to  oppofe  it.  But  he  is  dead,  and  has  left 
nothing  in  this  world,  that  reiembles  him.  He  is 
dead,  and  the  fenfe,  and  honour,  and  character, 
and  underftanding  of  the  nation  are  dead  with  him. 
But  it  feems  there  is  a  necejfity,  that  fuperfedes  all 
objections.  Juftice  muft  be  done,  and  criminals 
muft  be  punifhed.  Sir,  it  requires  fome  fortitude  ; 
it  requires  patience,  long  exercifed,  to  endure  fo 
grofs  a  mockery.  The  bill,  that  threatens  future 
punifhment  to  future  crimes,  gives  you  a  fpecial 
earneft  of  its  fincerity,  in  flickering  every  offence, 
and  protecting  every  offender  who  has  hitherto 
exifted,  or  who  does  exift  at  this  hour.  The  pre- 
fent  law  opens  its  bofom  to  receive  them,  and 
there  they  are  fafe  :  nay,  it  carries  its  precaution 
farther  ;  it  provides  for  the  fecurity  of  crimes  in 
effe,  that  are  actually  unfinimed,  and  allows  a  fuf- 
ficient  time,  in  which  they  may  be  compleated. 
When  thefe  honourable  fervices  are  accomplifhed, 
ftrict  Juftice  is  then  to  take  her  feat.  From  that 
moment  we  are  never  to  fee  any  thing  but  her  fword. 
When  the  whole  harveft  has  been  plundered,  when 
the  field  itfelf  has  been  trampled  into  duft,  you 
denounce  racks  and  gibbets  to  the  petty  larceny, 
that  hereafter  may  glean  a  few  ears  of  corn.  I 
have  done  my  part  to  the  utmoft  of  my  little  judge- 
ment and  ability.  From  thofe,  to  whom  more  has 
been  given,  more  will  be  expected.  What  I  have 
faid  will  not  be  ufelefs,  if  it  fuggefts  the  materials 

of 


[    54    3 

of  reflexion  to  others,,  and  furnifhes  employment 
for  greater  abilities. 

The  other  regulations  of  the  bill  may  be  thought 
to  reqWe  immediate  difpatch.  If  they  arc  proper 
to  be  executed  at  all,  they  cannot  be  gprried  too  foon 
into  effedt.  But  no  argument  of  that  kind  can  be 
applied  to  the  claufes,  that  regard  the  Judicature. 
The  bill,  on  the  face  of  it,  expreffes  no  particular 
hurry  to  punifh  any  body.  —  For  what  poflible  rea- 
fon  then,  mould  this  part  of  the  bill  be  fo  urgently 
prefTed  forward  to  keep  pace  with  the  reft  ?  —  The 
prefent  Adminiftration,  we  are  told,  poflefles  the 
confidence,  and  are  at  all  times  ready  to  appeal  to 
the  judgement  of  the  People.  Let  us  fee  whether 
they  are  ready  to  adt  up  to  their  profeffions.  Sure- 
ly, Sir,  there  never  can  be  an  occaiion  more  proper 
for  an  appeal  to  the  fenfe  of  the  nation,  than  when 
Government  is  going  to  introduce  a  new  mode  of 
trial  into  the  law  of  this  land,  which,  in  the  firft 
uiftance,  deprives  a  part  of  the  people  of  their  com- 
mon right,  and  which,  on  fimilar  pretences,  may 
be  extended  to  the  whole  kingdom.  If  the  nation 
acquiefces,  you  lofe  nothing  by  the  delay.  If  not, 
you  are  bound  by  your  principles  to  relinquifh  the 
attempt. 

Allow  me  a  word  at  parting  to  an  honourable  *, 
and  a  learned  -f-  gentleman  :  to  one  of  whom  I  am 
much  indebted,  and  to  the  other,  fpecially  engaged. 
The  honourable  gentleman  affures  the  Houfe,  that 

*  Major  John  Scott,  member  for  Weftloo. 

•J-  Henry  Dundas,  Efq.  member  for  Edinburghfiiire, 


[    55    ] 

He  is  not  the  reprefentative  of  Mr.  Haflings,  though 
a  confiderable  part  of  his  life  be  employed  in  attack- 
ing, defending,  and  refenting  for  that  gentleman. 
I  obierve  it  to  his  credit,  that,  although  he^  is  not  a 
principal  iruthefe  qucftions,  he  takes  part  in  them 
withnoleisaAvity  and  zeal,  than  if  the  caufe  were 
directly  and  effcntially  his  own.  Between  the  ho- 
nourable gentleman  and  me  there  is  not,  nor  ever  has 
been,  any  perfonal  fubjecl:  of  offence.  In  one  fenfe 
therefore,  I  may  be  permitted  to  confider  him  as 
the  reprefentative  of  Mr.  Haftings,  iince  every  man 
of  honour  is  properly  the  reprefentative  of  an  ab- 
fent  friend.  This,  I  prefume,  was  the  principle,  on 
which  the  honourable  gentleman  muft  have  adted, 
when  he  very  lately  created  an  opportunity  of  reci- 
ting to  the  Houfe  fome  tedious  paflages  from  a  let- 
ter of  ten  years  {landing,  which,  pronouncing  it  to 
be  extremely  dull,  he  naturally,  and  I  cannot  fay 
unwarrantably,  concluded  to  be  mine.  But  his  ea- 
gernefs  to  punifh  the  guilty,  made  him  forget  that 
the  Houfe  was  innocent.  The  honourable  gentle- 
man had  no  mercy  upon  either.  Not  confining 
himfelf  to  my  fuppofed  writings,  he  thought  it  a 
good  opportunity  to  produce  fome  ferious  charges 
againft  my  conduct.  To  thefe  laft,  my  anfwer 
upon  the  inftant,  I  believe  was  thought  fufficient. 
My  own  feelings  aflured  me,  that  I  carried  the  fenfe 
of  the  Houfe  along  with  me.  To  his  aflertion, 
that  we  went  to  India  pre-determined  to  declare  war 
with  Mr.  Haftings  at  the  moment  of  our  arrival,  I 
faid,  that  the  moment  of  our  arrival  gave  us  an 

infight 


C   56  j 

infight  into  his  conduA,  which  made  it  impotfi- 
blo  for  us,  as  honeft  men,  to  unite  with  him. 
Contrary  to  all  his  own  repeated  declarations  and 
profeffions  refpecting  a  pacific  fyftem,  we  found 
the  Company's  army  engaged  by  him  in  the  extir- 
pation of  the  Rohilla  nation,  with  who:n  we  had 
''lately  been  in  alliance,  and  with  whom  the  Englifh 
had  no  quarrel  whatever,  for  the  fole  and  acknow» 
ledged  purpofe  of  gaining  a  fum  of  money.  We 
found  he  had  fold  the  extirpation  of  a  whole 
people,  who  had  never  offended  us,  for  forcy 
lacks  of  rupees  ;  not  a  rupee  of  which  had 
been  paid,  though  the  fervice  was  compleated. 
We  found  a  third  part  of  the  whole  military  force 
of  Bengal  had  marched  to  places,  fo  remote  from 
our  own  territory,  that  none  of  the  ordinary  maps 
of  Hindoftan  went  far  enough  north  to  include  their 
fituation,  I  fubmit  to  judgement,  whether  thefe 
fadts.  alone  did  not  oblige  us  to  alter  our  opinion, 
not  only  of  Mr.  Haftings's  political  conduct, 'but  of 
his  perfonal  character.  The  prejudices  we  carried 
with  us  to  India  were  paffionately  and  almoft  ab- 
jfurdly  in  his  favour.  I  need  not  enter  farther  into 
the  merits  of  a  queftion,  on  which  every  tribunal, 
that  was  competent  to  examine  it,  has  formally  pro- 
nounced condemnation  againft  him.  On  the  28th 
of  November,  1775,  the  Court  of  Directors  unani- 
moufly  refolved,  "  That  the  agreement  made  with 
"  Sujah  Dowlah,  and  the  then  Governor,  (Mr. 
"  Haftings)  for  the  hire  of  a  part  of  the  Compa- 
*'  ny's  troops  for  the  reduction  of  the  Rohilla  COUI-H 

"  try, 


C    57    1 

<e  try,  and  the  fubfequent  fteps  taken  for  the  car- 
(e  ry"mg  on  tnat  war>  were  founded  on  wrong  poli- 
"  cy,  were  contrary  to  the  general  orders  of  the 
"  Company,  for  keeping  the  troops  within  the 
"  bounds  of  the  provinces,  and  for  not  extending 
"  their  conquefts ;  and  were  alfo  contrary  to  thofe 
"  general  principles  of  jujlice^  which  the  Company 
"  wifh  fliould  be  fupported." 

Even  his  fpecial  friends  the  Proprietors,  on  this 
occafion  concurred  with  the  Directors*  Except  that 
he  had  interefl  enough  in  that  quarter  to  get  the  re- 
ference to  juftice  omitted,  the  whole  body  of  the 
Proprietors,  und  voce,  condemned  him.  On  the 
6th  of  December,  1775,  they  refolved  unanimoufly, 
(<  That  notwithftanding  this  Court  hath  the  higheft 
(c  opinion  of  the  fervices  and  integrity  of  Warren 
(c  Haflings,  Efq.  and  cannot  admit  a  fufpicion  of 
"  corrupt  motives  operating  on  his  conduct  with- 
"  out  proof;  yet  they  are  of  opinion,  with  their 
"  Court  of  Directors,  that  the  agreement  made 
"  with  Sujah  Dowlah  for  the  hire  of  a  part  of  the 
<f  Company's  troops  for  the  reduction  of  the  Ro- 
"  hilla  country,  and  the  fubfequent  fteps  taken  for 
fe  carrying  on  that  war,  were  founded  on  wrong 
"  policy,  were  contrary  to  the  general  orders  of  the 
"  Company  frequently  repeated,  for  keeping  their 
"  troops  within  the  bounds  of  the  provinces,  and 
"  for  not  extending  their  territories  ;  and  were  alfo 
"  contrary  to  thofe  general  principles,  which  the 
"  Company  wilh  Ihould  be  fupported." 

I  The 


C   58   3 

The  honourable  gentleman  was  then  pleafed  to 
charge  me  with  having  oppofed  General   Clavering 
on  a  particular  occafion,  but  with  fo  much  appa- 
rent reluctance,  and  in  terms  of  fo  much  doubt  and 
apprehenfion,  as  evidently  betrayed  the  dependence 
of  my  fitnation.     A  difference  of  opinion  feems  a 
ftrange  proof  of  dependance.     He  concluded  how- 
ever that  I  was  bound  by  fome  fecret  inflructions  to 
follow  the  dictates  of  General  Clavering,  and  that, 
when  I  refufed  to  be  guided  by  him,  I  hazarded  my 
employment.  This,  indeed,  if  it  were  true,  would  be 
a  ferious  charge  not  only  againft  me,  but  againft  Ge- 
neral Clavering  himfelf,  whofe  memory  the  honour- 
able gentleman  profefTes  to  refpedt,  and  againft  the 
noble  Lord  *  in  the  blue  ribband,  by  whom  alone 
fuch  inftrudtions  could  have  been  given.     The  ho- 
nourable gentleman,  however,  has  in  fome  degree  an- 
fwered  his  own  charge.     Forgetting  every  thing  that 
he  had  faid  of  my  fuppofed  dependence  on  my  col- 
leagues, he  almoft  in  the  fame  breath  affured  the 
Hbufe,  that,  with  refpect  to  General  Clavering  and 
Colonel  Monfon,  I  was  primus  inter  paref,  and  that 
being  at  the  head  of  a  majority,  I  had  in  effect  the 
whole  government  in  my  hands.     If  that  be  true, 
my  colleagues  were   no  more  than  cyphers  at  my 
difpofal.     But  in  reality,  the  charge  and  the  defence 
are  equally  trifling.     I  differed  with  General  Cla- 
vering, not  once  but  often,  as  the  honourable  gen- 
tleman will  find,  if  he  will  look  over  our  proceed- 

*  Lord  North. 

ings. 


C     S9     ] 

ings.  Men  of  real  honour,  though  generally  united, 
and  adlng  together  on  the  fame  general  principles, 
will  often  difagree,  and  when  they  difagree,  will  be 
ready  to  declare  it.  Men  of  a  different  character, 
uniting  on  a  different  principle,  will  never  difagree 
in  particulars,  as  long  as  their  general  engagement 
to  each  other  fubfifts.  It  is  perfectly  true  that  I 
felt  and  exprefled  the  utmoft  anxiety  at  differing 
from  General  Clavering  on  a  queftion  of  impor- 
tance ;  but  not  for  the  reafon  fufpected  by  the  ho- 
nourable gentleman.  I  dreaded  the  construction, 
which  ignorance  and  malignity  would  be  ready 
enough  to  give  to  my  concurring  with  Mr.  Haf- 
tings.  I  knew  my  foliation.  When  I  oppofed  him, 
it  was  faction.  When  I  concurred  with  him,  it 
was  corruption.  The  honourable  gentleman,  how- 
ever, has  omitted  a  material  part  of  the  flory.  He 
has  inadvertently  neglected  to  inform  the  Houfe 
that  the  Court  of  Directors,  in  their  letter  of  the 
^th  of  February  1777,  intlrcly  agreed  with  me  on  the 
point  in  queftion. 

The  honourable  gentleman  fays  that  we  mould 
have  acted  wifely  for  the  public  fervice,  if,  inftead 
of  looking  back  to  the  errors  of  former  times,  we 
had  drawn  a  veil  over  every  thing  that  was  paft,  and 
directed  our  efforts  to  future  improvement.  Sir,  I 
am  not  of  that  opinion.  I  have  no  idea  that  fuch  a 
plan  would  have  been  practicable,  and  I  am  fure  it 
would  have  been  unjuft.  Injuftice  is  not  valid  be- 
caufe  it  has  been  done.  We  could  not  abfolutely 
fliut  our  ears  to  complaints.  We  could  not  fay, 
I  2  that 


that  no  man,  who  had  been  injured,  mould  ever  be 
redrefTed,  The  Supreme  Court  of  Judicature  look- 
ed very  far  back  indeed,  when  it  was  their  object  to 
make  an  example,  and  to  hold  it  out  to  the  natives. 
But  if  the  contrary  had  been  true  ;  —  if  the  honou- 
rable gentleman's  abflract  opinion  were  ever  judi- 
cious, he  forgets  that  we  had  no  choice.  He 
forgets  that  the  Court  of  Directors  prefcribed  to  us 
the  very  conduct  we  obferved,  and  applauded  us 
highly  for  purfuing  it. 

The  only  point,  on  which  I  could  not  inftant- 
ly  recollect  enough  of  the  fubject  to  give  the 
honourable  gentleman  an  immediate  anfwer,  re- 
garded'the  reprefentation,  which  he  fays,  I  drew 
up  in  December  1774,  of  the  condition  of  Bengal 
at  that  time.  He  charges  me  with  a  wild  exag- 
geration in  faying,  that  Bengal,  even  then,  was 
reduced  to  the  hazard  of  beggary  and  ruin.  Sir,  a 
mere  queflion  of  perfonal  debate  between  the  ho- 
nourable gentleman  and  me,  would  be  of  too  little 
moment,  even  to  ourfelves,  to  be  obtruded  on  the 
Houfe,  if  it  did  not  lead  to  information  imme- 
diately connected  with  the  general  fubject-matter  of 
our  prefent  deliberation.  You  are  going  to  make 
a  law  for  the  better  government  of  Bengal.  It 
is  therefore  proper  you  Ihould  inquire,  what  the 
flate  of  Bengal  was  ten  years  ago,  when  the  Legif- 
lature  firft  interpofed  for  the  fame  purpofe.  The 
Houfe  Ihould  next  endeavour  to  poffefs  itfelf  of  the 
.events,  which  have  happened  in  the  interval,  and 

then 


[    6i    ] 

then  you  will  be  able  to  determine,  what  is  proba- 
bly the  actual  Hate  of  the  object,  concerning  which 
you  are  going  to  exercife  your  legislative  power. 

The  Houfe,  I  imagine,  will  hear  with  furprife, 
that  the  firft  intimation  I  received  of  the  diftrefs  of 
the  Government  of  Fort  William,  was  in  a  private 
converfation  with  Mr.  Haftings  himfelf.  On  evi- 
dence of  this  kind,  I  certainly  mould  think  it  im- 
proper to  infift,  if  it  had  not  concurred  with  many 
recorded  declarations  made  by  Mr.  Haftings  to  the 
fame  effect.  The  fundamental  argument  conftantly 
ufed  by  him  in  defence  of  the  Rohilla  war,  was,  the 
diftrefs  of  the  Company's  affairs  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  In  his  minute  of  the  3d  December,  1774, 
he  fays, 

"  All  our  advices,  both  public  and  private,  re- 
"  prefented  the  diftrefles  of  the  Company  at  home, 
"  as  extreme.  At  the  fame  time,  fuch  was  the 
"  ftate  of  affairs  in  this  Government,  that  for  many 
"  years  paft,  the  income  of  the  year  was  found  in- 
"  adequate  to  its  expence,  to  defray  which,  a  hea- 
*'  vy  bond  debt,  amounting  at  one  time  to  a  hun- 
"  dred  and  twenty-five  lacks  of  rupees,  had  accu- 
"  mulated.  By  allowing  the  Vizier  the  military 
*s  aid,  which  he  required,  a  faving  of  near  one 
"  third  of  our  military  expences  would  be  effected 
"  during  the  period  of  fuch  a  fervice,  and  the  fti- 
es  pulation  of  forty  lacks  would  afford  an  ample 
"  fupply  to  our  treafury,  and  to  the  currency  of  the 
ef  country." 

On 


C    62    ] 

On  this  declaration,  our  firft  obfervation  was,  that 
urgent  diftrefs  was  implied  in  the  violent  nature  of  the 
remedy. 

The  maxims  of  policy  invented  by  Mr.  Mailings 
to  fupport  the  fad:,  accommodate  themfelves  per- 
fectly to  the  motives  on  which  he  acted. 

30/7?  Nov.  1774. 

<(  If  the  internal  refources  of  a  flate  fail  it,  or 
'*  are  not  equal  to  its  occalional  wants,  whence  can 
"  it  obtain  immediate  relief,  but  from  external 
"  means?" 

30 tb  Nov.  1774. 

"  I  mall  be  always  ready  to  profefs,  that  I  do 
"  reckon  the  probable  acquifition  of  wealth  among 
"  my  reafons  for  taking  up  arms  againft  my  neigh- 
"  hours." 

Obferve,  Sir,  that  one  of  Mr.  Haftings's  motives 
for  taking  up  arms  againfl  his  neighbours,  not  againft 
his  enemies,  is  plainly  and  explicitly  to  get  porTeffion 
of  their  wealth. 

With  refpect  to  the  actual  diftrefs  of  the  Govern- 
ment and  country  of  Bengal,  I  defire  nothing  to  be 
believed  on  my  own  affertion.  On  the  i  7th  of  Oc- 
tober, 1774,  a  day  or  two  before  our  arrival  at  Cal- 
cutta, Mr.  Haftings  and  his  Council  drew  up  a  let- 
ter to  the  Court  of  Directors  in  defence  of  the  Ro- 
hilla  war,  which  they  principally  refled  on  "  the 
"  acquifition  of  forty  lacks  of  rupees  to  the  Com- 
"  pany,  and  of  fo  much  fpecie  added  to  the  ex- 
currency  of  thefe  provinces  :"  not  a  rupee 

of 


C  63   3 

of  which •,  however,  was  received  until  fome  time 
after  our  arrival. 

With  refpedt  to  the  internal  {late  of  the  provinces, 
I  prefume  that  the  evidence  of  the  late  Mr.  Samuel 
Middleton,  one  of  the  oldeft  and  moft  experienced 
of  the  Company's  fervants  in  Bengal,  will  be  al- 
lowed to  be  conclufive.  If  it  were  not,  I  could 
fupport  it  by  a  mafs  of  other  evidence  of  equal  au- 
thority. In  his  letter  of  the  5th  of  February  1775, 
near  five  months  after  our  arrival,  he  fays,  "  When 
ff  a  very  considerable  portion,  fuppofed  even  a  third 
"  of  the  whole  inhabitants,  had  perifhed,  the  re- 
"  maining  two  thirds  were  obliged  to  pay  for  the 
"  lands  now  left  without  cultivators.  The  country 
"  has  languished  ever  iince,  and  the  evil  continues 
f{  enhancing  every  day."  Now,  Sir,  I  think  it  will 
be  admitted,  that  no  defcription  of  national  or  po- 
litical diftrefs  can  eafily  be  exaggerated,  which  is 
founded  on  evidence  and  authorities  fuch  as  thefe. 
But  has  any  thing  happened,  fince  that  time,  to  im- 
prove the  ftate  of  the  country  ?  —  Excepting  the 
fhort  interval,  in  which  General  Clavering's  prin- 
ciples and  authority  prevailed,  have  you  heard  of 
any  thing  but  war  in  all  parts  of  India  ?  —  But  the 
oppreffion  and  rebellion  of  Princes  fubject  to  your 
power  ?  —  Mutinies  among  the  native  troops  for 
want  of  pay  ?  —  Extraction  of  fpecie  from  Bengal 
for  the  fupport  of  the  other  Prefidencies,  the  enor- 
mous amount  of  which  is  flated  as  the  merit  of  Mr. 
Haftings  ?-—  Inveflments  bought  with  paper  —  and 
Naughts  on  the  Directors,  and  debts  accumulating 

without 


C  «4  3 

without  end  ?  Put  the  fa&s  together,  and  then  the 
Houfe  will  be  able  to  determine,  whether  the  la- 
bour they  have  at  lafl  undertaken  of  correcting  fo 
many  diforders,  and  recovering  our  Indian  poflef- 
fcffions  from  fo  many  diftrefles,  be  a  taik  of  common 
magnitude,  or  likely  to  be  accomplilhed  by  common 
men  ? 

Now,  Sir,  having  difmified  the  ferious  part  of 
the  honourable  gentleman's  charge,  I  hope  he  will 
allow  me  to  make  a  few  obfervations  on  the  manner 
and  time,  in  which  it  was  produced.  Suppofing  him 
for  a  moment  to  be  the  reprefentative  of  Mr.  Haf- 
tings,  and  to  feel  for  that  gentleman  as  fenfibly  as 
he  could  do  for  himfelf,  I  beg  leave  to  obferve  to 
him,  that  his  feverity  to  me  is  not  juftified  on  any 
principle  of  retaliation.  I  never  fought  for  Mr. 
Haftings's  letters.  The  honourable  gentleman  him- 
felf brought  them  before  the  Houfe,  and  trium- 
phantly referred  the  contents  of  them  to  an  atten- 
tive examination.  But,  if  it  had  been  otherwife,  I 
cannot  admit,  that  an  inoffenfive  pleafantry,  which 
wounds  no  man,  and  fometimes  enlivens  the  gravity 
of  debate,  is  equitably  retorted  by  a  ferious  de- 
liberate attack  upon  the  moral  conduct  or  character 
of  an  opponent.  It  is  not  likely  that  I  Ihould  ever 
have  occafion  to  make  a  fimilar  reflection  on  that 
of  the  honourable  gentleman.  His  actions  are  too 
;  ~ii  guarded,  and  my  difpofition  to  him  is  too  ami- 
cable, to  allow  me  to  fuppofe  the  probability  of  fuch 
a  cafe.  Admitting  it  neverthelefs  to  happen,  I  cer- 
tainly mould  not  follow  the  example  he  has  fet  me. 

I  would 


C    «5    3       . 

I  would  not  endeavour  to  take  him  by  furprife.  I 
fliould  not  expedt  him  to  carry  letters  or  tranfac- 
tions  of  ten  years  (landing,  correctly  in  his  me- 
mory. If  I  thought  myfelf  obliged  to  bring  a 
charge  of  any  kind  againft  him,  I  fhould  think  my- 
felf much  more  bound,  in  honour  and  in  juftice,  to 
give  him  previous  notice  of  my  intention,  and  warn 
him  to  prepare  for  his  defence. 

I  am  now  to  reply  to  the  learned  gentleman  op- 
pofite  to  me,  and  with  that  I  ihall  conclude.  A 
challenge  from  him  undoubtedly  does  me  honour, 
for  it  fuppofes,  in  bis  mind  at  leaft,  an  idea,  which 
does  not  exift  in  mine,  and  could  not  have  occurred 
to  any  other,  that,  on  the  fubject  in  queftion,  there 
is  fome  approach  to  equality  from  me  to  him.  Not 
being  converfant  in  the  forms  of  the  Houfe,  I  did 
not  know,  until  fome  fome  hours  later  in  the  fame 
evening,  that  1  was  at  liberty  to  write  down  the 
words  of  gentlemen,  uttered  perhaps  haftily  in  de- 
bate *,  for  the  purpofe  of  anfwering  them  at  a  fu- 
ture occafion,  —  In  a  day  or  two  after,  I  endeavour- 
ed to  recoiled:  the  learned  gentleman's  words,  and  I 
believe  I  have  taken  them  very  exactly.  If  not,  I 
hope  he  will  do  me  the  favour  to  correct  them. 
He  faid,  "  That  gentlemen  had  talked  in  a  loofe 
*'  general  way  of  difobedience  of  orders,  without 
"  coming  to  particulars  ;  —  that  if  they  would  point 
"  out  inftances,  he  mould  know  where  to  grapple 

*  Mr.  Dundas  had  quoted  words  of  Mr.  Fox,  which  he  faid  he 
had  taken  down  two  years  ago. 

K  "  with 


[    66    1 

"  with  them.  —  With  refpeft  to  the  Maratta  war, 
"  he  affirmed  that  Mr.  Haftings  was  not  guilty  of 
"  difobedience  of  orders  ;  —  that  the  Directors 
<f  themfelves  were  to  blame,  in  forming  and  en- 
f<  couraging  a  plan  of  conqueft  on  the  Malabar 
"  coaft,  and  that  Mr.  Haftings,  in  commencing 
"  and  purfuing  the  Maratta  war,  had  not  difobey- 
"  ed  orders,  but  had  conformed  to  the  views  of 
"  the  Directors.  —  That  Mr.  Haftings  neverthelefs 
"  was  greatly  to  blame  for  violating  the  treaty  of 
"  Poorunder.  On  the  truth  of  thefe  aflertions, 
"  the  learned  gentleman  challenged  me,  and  de- 
"  clared  himfelf  ready  to  meet  me  at  any  time  and 
"  on  any  ground  *." 

I  muft  confefs,  Sir,  that  this  language,  efpecial- 
ly  from  the  learned  gentleman,  appeared  to  me 
very  extraordinary.  I  hardly  ever  heard  any  thing 
with  greater  furprife.  He  has  employed  himfelf, 
near  two  years  together,  with  infinite  induftry  and 
toil,  in  an  inquiry  into  the  abufes  that  prevail  in  the 
India  Company's  fervice.  —  He  has  published  the 
refult  of  his  laborious  inveftigations  in  many  folio 
volumes,  which,  I  verily  believe,  no  man  in  the 
kingdom  has  read  but  myfelf.  —  The  prefent  bill, 
of  which  the  learned  gentleman  is  prochein  ami^,  if 
not  parent,  fuppofes  wilful  difobedience  in  every  de- 
partment of  the  fervice  ;  —  the  conftant  Complaint 
0 

*  Mr.  Dundas  affented  to  the  exaftnefs  of  this  recital  of  his  words. 
f  A  term  ufed  in  law  for  him,  who  is  the  next  friend,  or  next 
of  kin  to  a  child  in  his.  nonage. 

Cf 


C  67  ] 

of  the  Directors  has  been  that  their  orders  are  not 
obeyed ;  and  finally  the  right  honourable  gentle- 
man, who  propofes  the  bill,  particularly  urged  and 
infifted  on  the  neceflity  of  conquering  a  fpirit  of  re- 
fiftance,  univerfally  prevailing  among  the  Compa- 
ny's fervants  in  India.  On  any  other  prefumption, 
the  claufe  would  be  fuperfluous.  In  the  face  of  all 
this  evidence  arid  authority,  the  learned  gentleman 
gravely  aflures  the  Houfe,  that  there  have  been  no 
examples  of  difobedience,  or  that  the  inftances,  if 
any,  have  not  been  material.  He  calls  upon  his 
opponents  to  come  to  particulars,  and  then  he  lhall 
know  where  to  grapple  with  them.  Sir,  I  will  not 
weary  the  Houfe  with  a  multitude  of  quotations 
from  the  Company's  records.  They  are  filled  with 
the  very  proofs  and  examples,  which  the  learned 
gentleman  calls  for.  Setting  afide  orders  indifferent 
to  the  fervants  abroad,  and  which  of  courfe  they 
had  no  motive  to  difobey,  and  fetting  afide  orders, 
which  were  capable  of  being  converted  to  fome  pur- 
pofe  of  their  own,  —  for  thefe  they  have  obeyed 
not  only  with  exactnefs  but  oftentation,  I  affirm 
that,  fo  far  from  its  being  difficult  to  find  inftances 
of  difobedience,  the  difficulty  would  be  to  point 
out  an  order  of  the  Directors,  that  ever  was  regard- 
ed. The  India  Company  little  know,  in  what  fort 
of  eftimation  their  Directors  are  held  in  India.  But 
it  is  proper  I  fhould  encounter  the  learned  gentle- 
man on  his  own  ground.  Let  him  afk  the  Direc- 
tors, what  they  think  of  the  following  examples. 
They  are  not  mere  facts,  for  which  excufes  or  pre- 
K  2  tences 


C    68    3 

tences  might  be  invented,  but  formal  acts  of  difo- 
bedience,  deliberately  avowed  and  defended  on 
principle. 

The  firil  is  the  well-known  cafe  of  Mr.  John 
Briftow,  who  had  been  recalled  by  Mr.  Haltings 
from  his  ftation  at  Lucknow,  without  any  charge 
whatever  againft  his  conduct,  and  whom  the  Direc- 
tors repeatedly  ordered  to  be  re-inilated.  Your  Se- 
lect Committee  *  have  reported  to  you,  in  what 
manner  thofe  orders  were  regarded.  The  general 
ground  taken  and  avowed  by  Mr.  Hailiags  was,  that 
the  orders  in  queftion  invaded  his  prerogative,  and 
he  (hould  be  degraded  by  obeying  them. 

The  fecond  is  the  cafe  of  Mr.  Francis  Fowke, 
which  has  alfo  been  fully  reported  to  you  by  your 
Sele<5t  Committee.  This  gentleman  was  recalled 
from  Benares  by  Mr.  Haftings,  who  declared 
that  there  was  no  charge  nor  tlw  flight  eft  imputation 
of  a  charge  againft  bim.  The  Directors  repeatedly 
ordered  him  to  be  re-inftated,  but  to  no  purpofe.  In 
their  letter  of  the  2/th  of  May,  1779,  they  fay, 
"  We  have  read,  with  aftonifhraent,  your  formal 
"  refolution,  to  fufpend  the  execution  of  our  orders 
**  relative  to  Mr.  Francis  Fowke  ;  your  proceed- 
<f  ings  at  large  are  now  before  us;  we  lhall  take 
"  fuch  meafures  as  appear  neceffary  for  preferving 
"  the  authority  of  the  Court  of  Directors,  and  for 
"  preventing  luch  inftances  of  direct  and  wilful  dif- 
"  ofadience  in  our  fervants  in  time  to  come."  On 

*  Ninth  Report,  page  56. 

this 


[    69    I 

this  occafion,  the  principle  maintained  by  Mr.  Bar- 
well  was,  that  "  he  muft  decline  an  acquiefcence 
"  in  any  order,  which  had  a  tendency  to  bring  the 
"  Government  into  difrepute." 

If  the  learned  gentleman  fays,  that  thefe  are  in- 
fiances  of  no  great  moment,  I  ihall  leave  him  to 
fettle  that  queftion  with  the  Directors.  Inflead  of 
combating  his  opinion,  I  fliall  take  the  liberty  of 
aiking  him,  whether  he  feriouily  means  to  refer  it 
to  the  Company's  fervants  to  determine,  whether 
the  orders  they  receive  are  material  or  not.  If  he 
does,  I  can  venture  to  affure  him,  that  the  latitude 
he  allows  is  fufficient  to  anfwer  all  their  purpofes, 
and  that  they  are  not  fo  unreafonable,  as  to  defire 
any  greater. 

The  bufmefs  of  contracts  alone  has  opened  a  wide 
and  fertile  field  of  difobedience.  The  fundamental 
principle  laid  down  by  the  Company  was,  that  all 
contracts  ihould  be  annual ;  that  the  Government 
fliould  advertife  for  propofals,  and  always  give  a 
preference  to  the  loweft  bidders.  Thefe  rules,  I 
prefume,  would  be  deemed  unexceptionable,  if  they 
did  not  limit  the  patronage  of  men  in  power  in  In- 
dia, or  the  profits  of  their  friends.  Mr.  Haftings 
and  Mr.  Barwell  gave  all  the  contracts,  to  perfons 
of  their  own  choice,  on  their  own  terms,  for  five 
years  inilead  of  one,  and  without  advertifing  for 
propofals.  I  beg  the  learned  gentleman  will  attend 
to  what  the  Directors  themfelves  have  faid  upon  the 
fubject.  In  their  letter  of  the  23d  of  December, 
1778,  among  many  other  obfervations,  they  fay, 

Par. 


[    7°    J 

Par.  59.  "  This  wafle  of  our  property  cannot  be 
"  permitted.  You  -f-  have  disregarded  our  autho- 
"  rity,  and  difobeyed  our  orders,  in  not  taking  the 
"  loweft  offers." 

77.  "  In  order  to  prevent  the  Company's  money 
"  from  being  thus  given  away  in  future,  we  poli- 
"  tivelf  dired,"  &c.  &c. 

99.  "  With  thefe  materials  before  you,  the  quef- 
"  tion  is  put,  whether  the  contractor's  terms,  or 
"  the  propofals  of  Mr.  Johnfon,  lhall  be  accepted  : 
"  Mr.  Francis,  in  ftricl:  conformity  with  the  Com- 
"  pany's  orders,  and  according  to  eftablifhed  ufage, 
"  was  of  opinion,  that  the  contract  Ihould  be  ad- 
(f  vertifed.     Mr.  Barwell  thought  the  prefent  con- 
tf  tradlor  had,  the  preceding  year,  by  making  low 
"  propofals   (to  ufe  his  own  phrafe)  ejected  Mr. 
<e  Johnfon,  in  hopes  of  obtaining  future  indulgence, 
€f  and  therefore  he  could  not  hefitate  to   give  his 
"  vote  for  Mr.  Johnfon.'* 

100.  "  However  ftrange  Mr.  Harwell's  motive, 
'fc  for  giving  his  vote  for  Mr.  Johnfon,  may  appear 

"  to  us,  we  mufl  confefs,  the  Governor  General's 
"  reafons  for  concurring  therein  were  ftill  more 
"  extraordinary.  His  words  are,  /  difapprove  of 
<(  publifoing  for  propofals  ;  this  contract  is  reduced  too 
(e  low  already,  and  will  require  a  vigilant  attention  to 
(C  it  on  the  part  of  the  commanding  officer  of  the  corps 
"  of  the  army,  that  it  will  be  duly  performed ;  to 
"  which  he  adds,  that  according  to  the  beft  informa~ 

f  Mr.  Haftings  and  Mr.  Barwell. 

"  tion 


C   71   ] 

"  tlon  he  had  been  able  to  obtain,  little  profit  would 
<(  be  made  by  the  contractor,  if  he  did  his  duty" 

101.  "  But  although  the  Governor  General  has 
<c  thought  proper  to  exprefs  fo  direct  and  pointed  a 
"  difapprobation  of  the  mode  adopted  and  pofitive- 
<(  ly  enjoined  by  the  Company,  for  conducing  fo 
"  great  a  branch  of  their  affairs,  as  that  of  the  army 
"  contract,  we  neverthelefs  adhere  to  the  propriety 
"  of  the  Court's  orders/'  &c. 

If  this  part  of  the  fubject  fhould  be  thought  to 
require  any  farther  proof  or  explanation,  the  Re- 
cords of  the  India  Houfe  will  furniih  it  in  abun- 
dance. If  the  learned  gentleman  be  flill  duTatisfied, 
if  he  ftill  has  any  paffion  for  combat,  I  fhall  leave 
him  to  grapple  with  the  Court  of  Directors. 

I  do  not  perfedly  underftand  the  learned  gentle- 
man, when  he  fays,  in  the  fame  breath,  that  Mr. 
Haftings  is  not  anfwerable  for  the  fecond  Maratta 
war,  though  he  was  greatly  to  blame  for  violating  the 
treaty  of  Poorundur.  The  breach  of  the  treaty  and 
the  war  are  one  and  the  fame  ad:.  When  he  broke 
the  treaty,  he  created  the  war.  But  it  feems,  he 
did  it  in  compliance  with  inftructions  from  the 
Court  of  Directors.  Had  that  been  the  fad:,  it 
would  have  redounded  to  the  credit  of  Mr.  Haf* 
tings,  if,  in  that  inflance,  he  had  treated  their  or- 
ders with  the  fame  difregard,  which  he  did  in  every 
other.  He  would  then  have  had  the  real  merit  of 
fupporting  the  permanent  fundamental  principles, 
the  wife  pacific  policy  of  the  India  Company  againft 
an  incidental  order  from  a  fluctuating  Direction. 

But 


C  i*  3 

But  it  is  not  fo.  Sir,  I  am  not  a  profefled  advocate 
of  the  Court  of  Directors,  and  they  are  very  well 
able  to  defend  themfelves.  In  this  inftance,  how- 
ever, it  is  but  juftice  to  them  to  fay,  that  they  have 
not  been  juftly  accufed.  Firfl  of  all,  let  us  confider 
what  the  Company's  acknowledged  fyftem  is.  If  I 
am  not  very  ill  informed,  the  learned  gentleman 
himfelf  has  heretofore  declared,  that  their  written 
inftructions  would  compofe  a  perfect  code  of  poli- 
tical wifdom. 

In  the  very  firft  article  of  their  general  inftruc- 
tions to  Bengal,  dated  the  zpth  of  March,  1774, 
they  fay,  "  We  direct,  that  you  fix  your  attention 
*•  to  the  prefervation  of  peace  throughout  India, 
c<  and  to  the  fecurlty  of  the  poffemons  and  revenues 
"  of  the  Company." 

In  their  letter  of  the  i5th  of  December,  1775, 
they  fay, 

Par.  4.  "  We  difapprove  all  fuch  diftant  ex- 
"  peditions,  as  may  eventually  carry  our  forces  to 
"  any  fituation,  too  remote  to  admit  of  their  fafe 
cc  and  fpeedy  return  to  the  protection  of  our  pro- 
«*  vinces,  in  cafes  of  emergency." 

5.  "  We  alfo  utterly  difapprove  and  condemn  of- 
<c  fenfive  wars ;  diflinguilhing,  however,  between 
"  offeniive  meafures  unneceffarily  undertaken  with 
"  a  view  to  pecuniary  advantages,  and  thofe,  which 
"  the  prefervation  of  our  honour,  or  the  protection 
"  or  fafety  of  our  poffeffions,  may  render  abfolutely 
"  neceffiry." 

6,  «  The 


[     73     ] 

6.  '*  The  attention  paid  by  the  majority  *  to  the 
"  tenor  and  fpirit  of  our  orders  on  this  fubject,  is 
"  highly  agreeable  to  us  ;  and  it  is  our  moft  pofi- 
"  tive  diredion,  that  no  deviation  from  thofe  or- 
"  ders  be  permitted,  but  upon  the  mod  urgent  and 
"  abfolute  neceffity  ;  as  that  alone  can  juftify  a  de- 
"  parture  from  them  ;  for  the  profped  of  any  ad- 
"  vantages,  however  alluring,   can  in  no  wife  be 
"  adequate  to  the  pernicious  confequences  which 
<f  muft  refult  from  examples  of  difobedience  to  our 
"  orders." 

7.  "  The  fentiments  exprefled  by  the  majority  \t 
"  in  the  thirty-fixth   paragraph   of  their  addrefs, 
"  coincide  exadly  with  our  own  ;  their  determina- 
(e  tion  to  endeavour  to  maintain  peace  in  India,  and 
te  vigoroufly  to  defend  our  pofleffions  and  allies, 
"  cannot  be  too  much   applauded  :    we  therefore 
te  flridtly  enjoin  every  member  of  our  Council,  to 
"  concur  heartily  in  fuch  meafures  as  may  be  ne- 
"  cefTary    for   accomplilhing   thefe   defirable   pur- 
"  pofes." 

8.  "  We  have  already,  in  our  letter  of  the  3d  of 
<f.  March,   1775,  exprefled  our  extreme  concern,  in 
"  finding  that  our  arms  had  been  employed  in  con- 
«c  quering  the  Rohilla  country  for  Sujah  Dowlah, 
"  and  difapproved  the  meafure ;  and  we  have  no 
"  reafon  to  alter  our   fentiments    refpeding  that 
««  tranfadion." 

*  Clavering,  Monfon,  and  Francii. 
f  Ditto. 

L  In 


[     74     ] 

In  their  general  inftructlons  to  the-Commiflioncrs 
appointed  in  the  year  1769,  they  fay,  "  In  all  your 
"  treaties  with  the  country  powers  you  are  to  take 
"  care,  that  they  be  fo  framed,  as  neither  imme- 
"  diately  nor  eventually  to  engage  the  Company  in 
"  any  difputes  between  thofe  powers." 

Thefe  documents,  out  of  a  multitude,  are  fuffi- 
cient  to  eftablifh  the  general  views  and  principles 
of  the  Court  of  Directors.  With  refpct  to  the  par- 
ticular point  in  queftion,  it  happens  that  they  gave 
a  particular  injunction.  In  a  letter  of  the  4th  of 
July,  1777,  they  fay,  "  Though  the  treaty  (of 
"  Poorundur)  is  not,  on  the  whole,  fo  agreeable  to 
"  us,  as  we  could  wifli,  ft  ill  we  are  refolved  ftrict- 
"  ly  to  adhere  to  it  on  our  parts."  If  the  Direc- 
tors could  have  been  mad  enough  to  fend  out  or- 
ders to  fet  afide  thofe,  which  I  have  recited  to  the 
Houfe,  deprivation  of  power  would  be  but  a  fmall 
portion  of  the  punilhment  their  conduct  would  de- 
ferve. 

A  word  or  two  of  perfonal  application  to  the 
learned  gentleman,  and  I  have  done.  I  have  ob- 
ferved  with  concern,  that  his  mind  is  not  fo  perfect- 
ly free,  as  it  ought  to  be,  from  uneafy  fentations. 
He  is  confcious  that,  amidft  contending  parties,  he 
has  done  his  duty  impartially  ;  —  that,  in  fpeaking 
of  Mr.  Haftings,  his  language  had  been  exactly  ba- 
lanced between  condemnation  and  applaufe  ;  —  that 
he  never  faid  that  Mr.  Haftings  was  either  a  very 
good  man  or  a  very  bad  man  ;  meaning,  as  we  all 
do,  the  political  principles  of  the  governor,  not  the 

moral 


C    75.    3 

moral  character  of  the  man  ;  and  that  having  pur- 
fued  this  middle^  even  courfe,  without  the  fmallelt 
inclination  to  either  fide,  he  had  not  had  the  good 
fortune  to  fatisfy  any  body.  This  indeed  is  too 
often  the  lot  of  moderate  men  in  violent  times,  But 
I  have  great  pleafure  in  being  able  to  allure  the 
learned  gentleman,  that  bis  lot  is  directly  the  re- 
verfe  of  what  he  thinks  it.  Inftead  of  pleafmg  no- 
body, he  has  had  the  wifdom  to  obferve  a  conduct, 
by  which  every  individual  of  every  party  has  been 
gratified  in  his  turn.  I  lhall  contribute  to  the  pub- 
lic fervice,  if  I  can  affift  in  relieving  him  from  this 
ill-founded  apprehenfiom  He  cannot  be  difturbed 
in  his  application  to  bufinefs,  without  injury  to  the 
publici  To  remove  one  half  of  his  apprehensions 
I  need  only  read  to  him  fome  of  his  own  refolutions 
regarding  Mr.  Haftings,  which  I  dare  fay  he  has 
totally  forgotten* 

(e  Extracts  from  tie  Refolutions  of  tie  Comnlittee  of 
"  Secrecy,  l%th  May,   1782. 

Refolvedj  18.  "  That  the  refolution  of  the  ma- 
"  jority  of  the  Supreme  Council,  on  the  2d  of 
"  February,  1778,  which,  by  the  death  of  Colo- 
<c  nel  Monfon,  was  now  decided  by  the  calling 
u  voice  of  the  Governor  General,  had  a  ftrong  ten- 
*'  dency  to  a  renewal  of  the  Maratta  war." 

35.  "  That  the  inflrudtions   and  powers  given 

"  to  Colonel  Goddard  by  the  Supreme  Council,  on 

La  «  the 


C   76   3 

"  the  5th  of  April,  1779,  fixed  on  them,  from  that 
"  time,  the  chief  direction  and  refponfibility  of 
"  the  war  with  the  Marattas." 

39.  "  That  it  muft  be  reckoned  among, the  many 
"  additional  mifchiefs,    which  have    arifen.  chiefly 
"  from  this  improvident  war  with  the  Marattas  to 
"  the  Company's  affairs,  that  the  military  force  of 
"  the  Carnatic  had   been  weakened  by   rcinforce- 
"  ments   fent   to   the   Malabar  coaft  ;  —  that  the 
"  Bengal   Government   have   been   under   the  ne- 
"  ceffity  of  fupporting  on  their  confines  the  army 
"  of  a  power,  confederated,  however  involuntarily, 
"  againft  them  ;  that  they  have  been  obliged  to  fue 
l(  for  the  mediation  of  the  fame  power,  (the  Rajab 
"  of  Birar)  have  fubmittcd  to  a  rcfufal,  and  pur- 
"  chafed  at  leaft   an  uncertain,  becaufc  apparently 
"  an  unauthorifed  treaty,   on  moft  extravagant  and 
"  dijlionourable  conditions,  with  his  fon,  Rajah  Chim- 
tf  najee  ;    and   finally,  that,  being  burthened  with 
c<  the  expences  of  a  variety  of  diflant  expeditions, 
te  while  their  allies  are  in  diftrcfs,  and  their  tribu- 
"  taries  under  opprcffion,  there  is  alfo  an  alarming 
"  deficiency  in  their  own  rcfources  of  revenue  and 
"  commerce,   by  the  accumulation  of  their  debt, 
"  and  the  reduction  of  their  investment." 

40.  "  That  the  attempt  made  by  the  Govern- 
"  ment  General  in  the  month  of  January,  1781, 
"  to  form  an  engagement  of  alliance,  offenfive  and 
"  defenlive,  with  the  Dutch  Eaft-India  Company, 
"-  by  the  means^  and  upon  the  terms  Hated  in  the 

"  proceedings 


C    77    3 

"  proceedings  of  their  Council,  was  unwarranted, 
"  impolitic,  extravagant,  and  unjuft." 

42.  "  That  the  Government  of  Bengal  had  been 
"  previoufly  in  poffeffion  of  a  letter  from  the  Duan 
66  of  the  Rajah  of  Berar,  containing  overtures  for 
"  mediation  for  peace  and  alliance  with  the  Pejbiva  ; 
"  and  that  this  material  information  was  wholly 
"  fupprefled  by  them  in  their  difpatches  to  the 
"  Court  of  Directors,  but  a  copy  of  it  was  fent 
"  by  the  fame  conveyance  to  the  private  agent  of 
"  Mr.  Haftings ;  and  that,  in  thus  neglecting  to 
"  make  immediate  communication  to  the  Court  of 
"  Directors  of  fuch  important  intelligence,  the  Go- 
"  vernment  General  appear  to  have  failed  in  an 
"  efiential  part  of  their  duty." 

Refolved,  «  That  Warren  Haftings,  Efq.  Go- 
"  vernor  General  in  Bengal,  and  William  Hornby, 
<(  Efq.  Prefident  of  the  Council  at  Bombay,  have- 
(f  ing,  in  fundry  inftances,  acted  in  a  manner  re- 
ff  pugn&nt  lo  the  honour  and  policy  of  this  nation,  and 
(f  thereby  brought  great  calamities  on  India,  and  enor- 
"  mous  expences  on  the  EaJl-India  Company,  it  is  the 
"  duty  of  the  Directors  of  the  faid  Company  to 
"  purfue  all  legal  and  effectual  means  for  the  re- 
"  moval  of  the  faid  Governor  General  and  Prefi- 
"  dent  from  their  faid  offices,  and  to  recal  them  to 
"  Great  Britain." 

This,  Sir,  I  conceive,  is  not  the  language  of  a 
man  very  much  undecided  in  his  opinion,  or  who 
hejitates  between  the  extremes  of  cenfure  and  ap- 
probation. 


t     /3     ] 

probation.  If  it  be,  I  fhould  be  glad  to  know,  in 
what  terms  the  learned  gentleman  would  exprefs 
himfelf,  when  he  ferioufly  intended  to  condemn. 
I  can  truly  allure  him  that  I  am  not  acquainted 
with  any  man,  ib  hoftile  to  Mr.  Huttings,  as  not  to 
be  contented  with  this  clefcription  of  his  conduct. 
So  peremptory  and  decided  is  the  condemnation  ex- 
preiFed  in  thefe  Refolutions,  that  feveral  of  my 
friends  in  India  concluded  they  had  been  drawn  up 
by  me.  Knowing  nothing  of  the  jftate  of  men  and 
things  in  this  country,  they  drew  their  conclufion 
from  the  knowledge  they  had  of  my  opinions,  and 
from  that  very  character  of  decifion,  which  is 
ftamped  on  the  face  of  the  Refolutions,  and  which 
the  learned  gentleman  thinks  it  prudent  to  difclainl4 
The  fondnefs  and  applaufe,  with  which  he  has  lately 
fpoken  of  Mr.  Haftings,  have  compleatly  reconciled 
him  to  that  gentleman's  friends.  All  parties  now 
have  been  fatisfied  in  fuccemon  ;  and  in  this  fenfe, 
I  confefs  the  learned  gentleman  has  been  impartial. 
His  cenfure  and  applaufe  are  diitributcd  with  an 
equal  hand,  and  fo  the  account  is  balanced. 
•  I  told  my  Indian  friends,  in  return  to  their  let- 
ters, that  I  indeed  had  no  concern  in  the  matter  ; 
but  that  the  bufinefs  was  happily  undertaken  by  A 
man  of  great  induftry,  of  eminent  ability,  and  un- 
exampled perfeverance,  who,  I  was  fure,  would 
carry  it  through.  Of  his  induftry  and  abilityj  my 
opinion  is  the  fame  ;  —  but  I  am  forced  to  acknow- 
ledge, that  perfeverance,  fuch  as  his,  is  not  without 

example. 


r  79  ] 

example.  — •  Other  men  are  obliged  to  employ  their 
talents  in  one  line,  and  diredt  their  efforts  to  one  ob- 
je£t ;  'and,  even  with  this  limitation,  it  is  well  if 
they  fucceed.  —  The  learned  gentleman's  abilities 
are  not  fp  narrowly  confined.  He  carries  the  appli- 
cation of  them  to  every  extreme,  and  equally  iuc- 
ceeds  in  exerting  them  in  every  direction. 


A  1*  P  E  N- 


APPENDIX. 


No.  I. 

1  N  the  conrfe  of  the  debate  on  the  1 6th  of  July, 
it  was  infilled  by  a  learned  gentleman,  in  defence 
of  the  new  Judicature,  that  the  erection  of  fome 
new  tribunal  was  neceflary,  for  that  Juries  would  be 
found  unequal  to  the  taik  of  trying  mifdemeanors 
committed  in  India.  In  fupport  of  this  pofition,  he 
contended  that  the  trials  of  offences  within  the  pur- 
view of  this  bill  would  probably  be  of  great  length  ; 
that  many  might  laft  more  than  a  week ;  and  that 
fome  might  laft  even  more  than  a  month.  He  then 
proceeded  to  obferve,  that  common  Jurymen  were 
not  fit  to  have  fuch  caufes  brought  before  them. 
With  regard  to  the  probable  length  of  the  trials,  it 
is  fcarcely  poffible  that  trials  fhould  be  fpun  out  to 
fuch  a  length,  as  he  feemed  to  apprehend,  even  in 
this  new  Court,  though  in  fome  refpedts  it  feems 
calculated  for  the  purpofes  of  delay.  When  any 
teflimony  is  to  be  brought  from  India,  a  mandamus 
muft  iffue  from  the  King's  Bench,  and  the  de- 

pofitions, 


[    8,     ] 

petitions,  taken  by  virtue  of  it,  muft  be  tranf- 
mitted  to  England,  before  even  the  commiffion  can 
iffue  from  the  Court  of  Chancery  for  holding  the 
Court.  All  the  teftimony,  that  is  to  come  from 
abroad,  muft  be  colle&ed,  even  before  the  Court 
is  in  exiftence.  What  reafon  then  is  there  to  fear 
that,  when  the  foreign  evidence  is  to  be  thus  pre- 
pared, trials  would  in  general  be  of  long  conti- 
nuance ?  If  they  fhould,  it  would  be  owing,  not  to 
difficulties  in  the  procuring  or  examination  of  evi- 
dence, but  to  the  power  given  to  the  Commiflioners 
to  adjourn  from  time  to  time,  as  they  ihall  think  fit ; 
a  power  which  would  indeed,  in  all  probability,  be 
productive  of  the  greateft  delays  in  the  adminiftra- 
tion  of  juftice-  But  it  may  be  afked,  why  a  Jury  is 
not  as  competent  to  try  a  mifdemeanor  committed  in 
India,  as  one  committed  in  England ;  and  why  a 
greater  time  ihould  be  neceflary  for  the  trial  of  the 
former  than  of  the  latter  ?  The  affirmative  refts  on 
an  affertion,  which,  {landing  without  argument, 
need  only  be  denied.  No  man  can  be  tried,  even 
under  the  provifionsof  this  bill,  on  an  accumulated 
or  general  charge.  The  information  or  indictment 
muft  be  for  fome  fpecific  offence  or  offences,  to 
which  the  party  is  to  plead,  and  upon  which  iflue 
muft  be  joined.  If  there  be  any  teftimony  in  India, 
it  is  to  be  tranfmitted  under  a  mandamus  to  England. 
After  all  this  preparation  then,  (a  preparation  which 
is  prefcribed  by  the  bill)  a  mifdemeanor  committed 
in  India  may  be  tried  by  a  Jury  with  as  little  diffi- 
culty, and  in  as  little  time,  as  one  committed  in 
J|  England. 


C   s*   3 

-  England.  The  learned  gentleman's  doftrine  is  of 
the  mod  dangerous  tendency  :  it  leads  to  the  abo- 
lition.of  trial  by  Jury.  All  the  arguments,  which 
have  been  ufed  to  fhew  the  inconvenience  and  im- 
propriety of  this  mode  of  trial  in  cafes  of  offences 
committed  abroad,  might  with  equal  force  be  urged 
againft  the  propriety  of  it  in  cafes  of  offences  com- 
mitted in  England  ;  and  very  probably  we  mall  foon 
have  them  introduced  for  that  purpofe. 

Let  it  be  admitted,  for  the  fake  of  argument, 
that  the  invefligation  of  Indian  mifdemeanors  will 
probably  take  up  a  long  time,  and  that  common 
Juries  are  not  fit  to  have  fuch  caufes  brought  before 
them ;  —  flill  it  does  not  follow  that  there  is  any 
neceffity  for  abolifhing  trial  by  Jury.  All  Indian 
mifdemeanors  might  be  tried  by  fpecial  Juries,  and 
this  would  obviate  the  faftidious  objection,  on  which 
ib  much  flrefs  has  been  laid.  Special  Juries  are  not 
"  chofen  out  of  the  mafs  of  mankind,"  but  out  of 
the  principal  freeholders  of  the  county.  Men  as 
little  fubjedt  to  bias,  "  as  little  likely  to  go  into 
"  common  ale-houfes,  and  enter  into  porter-club 
(e  converfations  upon  the  evidence  before  them," 
and  as  little  liable  to  be  mifled,  as  the  members  of 
either  Houfe  of  Parliament. 

As  for  the  length  of  the  trials,  let  the  inveftiga* 
tion  be  ever  fo  long,  a  Jury  is  competent  to  it. 
With  deference  to  learned  authority,  there  is  no 
reafon  to  admit  that  "  his  going  into  his  box,  and 
^  remaining  there  locked  up  till  he  has  given  his 
"  verdict,  is  an  effential  charadteriftic  of  a  Jury- 

"  man. 


[    83    ] 

"  man."  —  It  is  eflential  that,  after  the  Jury  leave 
the  bar,  they  lhall  not  fpeak  with  the  parties  or 
their  agents ;  and  that  they  lhall  receive  no  frefh 
evidence  :  and  it  is  common,  in  order  to  prevent 
intemperance,  or  caufelefs  delay,  to  keep  them 
without  meat,  drink,  fire,  or  candle ;  but  I  affirm 
that  this  is  not  effential :  the  law  fays,  that,  by 
permiffion  of  the  Judge,  they  may  be  allowed  fire, 
candle,  and  refrefhments.  That  permiffion  would 
always  be  given,  when  the  length  and  nature  of  the 
teftimony  might  render  much  deliberation  neceiTary, 
and  thus  the  Jury  would  have  it  in  their  power, 
without  any  material  inconvenience  to  themfelves, 
to  give  full  confideration  to  every  part  of  the  bufi- 
nefs  before  them. 


No.  II. 

Minute  of  Richard  Barwell,  Efq.  recorded  in  Conful- 
tation  of  jtb  of  November,  1774,  and  referred  to 
in  Page  27. 

<(  I  entirely  approve  of  the  Honourable  the  Pre- 
"  iident's  conduct  in  the  receipt  of  complimentary 
"  nuzzers. 

"  The  prejudices  of  the  natives  of  Hindoftan, 
"  bigoted  to  their  ancient  cuftoms,  make  it  abfo- 
f(  lutely  impojjible  to  avoid  deviating  in  this  particu- 
"  lar  from  the  words  of  the  Ad:  of  Parliament  ! 
"  The  fpirit  of  the  a&  is  not,  however,  by  this 
M  2  "  feeming 


C   «4  -  ]  • 

"  feeming  deviation,  departed  from,  but  regarded 
"  with  an  attention,  which  foews  the  mqft  fcrupulous 
"  refpeft  to  the  rejirittions  of  the  Legijlafurc  !  Nuz- 
"  zers  are  not  made  to  the  man,  but  to  the  flation 
"  he  fills,  and  are  very  different  in  their  nature 
"  from  gratuitous  rewards,  or  the  gifts,  denomi- 
tf  nated  prefents  ;  I  therefore  cannot  but  equally 
"  honour  the  principle,  while  I  admire  the  juftnefs 
"  of  the  motive,  on  which  orEcial  nuzzers,  or 
(c  compliments  are  accepted  by  the  Governor  Gene- 
"  ral.  I  fee  their  acceptance  in  a  light  of  the 
"  greateft  propriety,  perfectly  confident  with  the 
"  ideas  of  the  Company,-  and  regardful  of  what 
"  they  have  invariably  recommended,  attention  to 
"  the  particular  prejudices,  manners,  and  difpoil- 
"  tions  of  the  natives  ! 

"  The  Governor  General  has  thought  proper  to 
"  fubmit  the  nuzzers,  made  to  his  ftation,  to  the 
"  Court  of  Directors,  to  be  appropriated  agree- 
"  ably  to  their  pleafure.  Small  as  the  obied:  is  to 
"  the  Company  and  to  the  nation,  it  gives  dignity 
"  to  his  character  as  guardian  of  the  public  inte- 
"  reds,  and  obviates  all  mifreprefentation  of  the 
"  principle  and  the  motive,  which  has  induced 
"  him  to  a  compliance  with  the  rooted  prejudices 
(<  and  manners  of  the  Afiatics.  My  experience, 
"  from  a  long  refidence  in  this  country,  convinces 
"  me  of  the  real  necejjity  there  is  of  reflecting 
"  ufages  in  immaterial  points,  and  which,  difre- 
"  garded,  would  be  followed  by  impreffions  re- 
"  fulting  from  a  condud  repugnant  to  Afiatic 

*e  notions 


[    85    ] 

Cf  notions  of  propriety  and  deference.  I  might 
"  here  make  a  tender  to  the  Public  of  the  trivial 
"  nuzzers,  to  the  acceptance  of  which  my  flation 
"  has  impelled  me  ;  but  what  is  proper  in  the  Go- 
"  vernor  General,  would  in  me,  I  apprehend,  ap- 
"  pear  rather  in  the  light  of  a  confequential  infignif- 
<c  cant  difplay  of  rigidnefs  in  excefs  !  !  The  amount 
"  of  my  complimentary  nuzzers  of  a  gold  mohur, 
"  and  five  rupees,  from  the  period  of  my  arrival  at 
"  the  Prefidency,  exceeds  not  the  fum  of  two  hun- 
"  dred  and  fifty  rupees,  exclufive  of  a  compliment 
"  from  the  Nabob  of  Arcot  of  a  few  pieces  of 
"  cloth,  the  produce  of  his  country,  and  two 
"  fhauls,  a  compliment  more  than  returned  by 
"  myfelf  in  the  manufactures  of  Bengal,  to  the 
"  amount  of  three  thoufand  Sicca  rupees. 

(Signed)  "  RICHARD  BARWELL." 


No.  III. 

Extraft  of  the  General  Inftruftions,  given  by  the  Court 
of  D:reftors  to  the  Governor  General  and  Council  of 
Fort  William,  dated  the  2$tt>  of  March,  1774,  and 
confirmed  by  a  General  Court  of  Proprietors* 

35.  "WE  diredt,  that  you  immediately  caufe? 
"  the  ftrifteft  inquiry  to  be  made  into  all  op- 
"  preffions,  which  may  have  been  committed,  ei- 
"  ther  againft  the  natives  or  Europeans,  and  into 

"all 


[    86    ] 

se  all  abufes  that  may  have  prevailed  in  the  colleo 
"  tion  of  the  revenues,  or  any  part  of  the  civil  go- 
"  vernment  of  the  Prefidency  ;  and  that  you  com- 
"  municate  to  us  all  information,  which  you  may 
"  be  able  to  obtain  relative  thereto,  or  to  any  diffi- 
"  pation  or  embezzlement  of  the  Company's  mo- 
"  ney." 

Extraff  of  a  General  Letter  from  the  Court  of  Direc- 
tors to  the  Governor  General  and  Council,  dated  the 
$th  of  April y  1776. 

Par.  27.  "  HAVING  inveftigated  the  charges 
"  exhibited  againft  fome  of  the  members  of  our 
"  late  Adminiftration,  we  have  come  to  the  follow- 
t(  ing  refolutions : 

Refolved,  "  That  it  appears  that  the  conduct  of 
"  the  late  Prelident  *  and  Council  of  Fort  William 
S(  in  Bengal,  in  fuffering  Cantoo-Baboo,  the  prefent 
(C  Governor  General's  Banyan,  to  hold  farms  in  dif- 
"  ferent  Purgunnahs  to  a  large  amount,  or  to  be 
"  fecurity  for  fuch  farms,  contrary  to  the  tenor  and 
"  fpirit  of  the  feventeenth  regulation  of  the  Com- 
"  mittee  of  Revenue  at  Fort  William,  of  the  i4th 
"  of  May,  1772,  and  afterwards  relinquifhing  that 
(<  fecurity  without  fatisfadtion  made  to  the  Com- 
"  pany,  was  highly  improper,  and  has  been  at- 
"  tended  with  confiderable  lofs  to  the  Company. 

*  Mr.  Haftings. 

Refolved, 


[    87    ] 

Refolved,  "  That  it  appears  that  a  confiderable 
"  fum  of  money  has  been  given  by  one  of  the 
(C  Company's  tenants,  for  holding  the  fait  farms  of 
"  Selimabad  and  Duccann-Savagepore,  in  the  dif- 
"  trid:  of  Dacca,  over  and  above  the  engagement 
"  forthofe  farms  to  the  Company,  contrary  to  the 
"  letter  and  fpirit  of  the  eleventh  regulation  of  the 
"  Committee  of  Revenue,  of  the  i4th  of  May, 
"  1772;  and  that  Mr.  Harwell  has  acknowledged 
t(  having  charged  the  faid  tenant,  for  his  own  ufe, 
"  and  the  other  gentlemen  of  the  Factory,  with 
"  the  amount  of  125,500  rupees,  for  permitting 
"  him  to  hold  the  faid  farms." 

28.  "  Since  paffing  the  above  refolutions,  the 
"  Northumberland's  Purfer  is  arrived  with  your 
"  advices ;  and  our  concern  is  much  increafed  on 
"  finding  tnat  improper  influence,  and  interference 
"  of  our  fervants  in  the  revenue  branch,  has  been 
"  much  more  general  than  we  had  been  led  to  hope 
{(  was  the  cafe  ;  and  that  in  the  immediate  views  of 
"  private  gain,  the  Company's  intereft  has  been 
"  greatly  negle&ed." 

30.  "  The  powers  and  instructions  veiled  in,  and 
"  given  to  General  Clavering  and  the  other  gentle- 
"  men,  were  fuch  as  fully  authorifed  them  in  every 
"  inquiry  that  feems  to  have  been  their  objecl: ; 
"  and  we  highly  commend  the  indefatigable  ajfidulty 
tc  that  evidently  appears  in  their  laborious  refearckes, 
"  and  their  zeal  for  the  intereft  of  the  Company  and  the 
t(  welfare  of  individuals,  as  well  natives  as  Ruro- 
"  -heans" 


peans 


Extraft 


[    88    3 

Extraft  of  a  General  Lstter  from  the  Court  of  Direc- 
tors to  the  Governor  General  and  Council,  dated  the 
of  November,  1777. 


39.  "WE  find  that  the  farm  of  Sylhet  was 
"  granted  by  the  Committee  of  Circuit;  that  the 
"  Company's  advances  to  the  farmers  of  Sylhet,  of 
"  33>°o°  rupees  for  elephants,  was  received  by  one 
ee  of  the  members  of  that  Committee.  It  has,  how- 
"  ever,  fince  appeared,  that  the  other  oflenfible 
"  farmers,  or  perfons  named  in  the  Committee's 
"  fettlement,  NEVER  EXISTED;  and  that  the 
"  Company's  Refident  at  Sylhet,  was  the  real  far- 
**  mer,  under  fftitious  names" 


No.  IV. 

The  thirty -third  claufe  of  the  original  bill, 
which  Mr.  Francis  defired  might  be  translated  into 
common  fenfe,  is  omitted  in  the  amended  bill.  No 
ftill  in  language  could  tranflate  it.  —  Vide  page  13. 


No.  V. 

The  eighteenth  refolution  of  the  Committee  of 
Secrecy,  of  which  Mr.  Dundas,  then  Lord  Advo- 
cate of  Scotland,  was  Chairman,  is  guilty  of  an 
anachronifm,  in  which  the  aflertion  of  a  falfe  fact 


is  involved.  It  aflcrts  that,  "in  February,  1778, 
"  the  refolution  of  the  majority  of  the  Supreme 
"  Council,  by  ike  death  of  Colonel  Monfon,  was  now 
"  decided  by  the  cafting  voice  of  the  Governor 
"  General."  —  It  was  not  the  death  of  Colonel 
Monfon,  which  gave  Mr.  Haflings  the  cafting 
voice  in  February,  1778.  He  died  about  the  end 
of  September,  1776.  It  was  the  death  of  Sir  John 
Clavering,  in  Auguft,  1777,  which  gave  Mr.  Haf- 
tings  a  majority  at  the  period  in  queftion.  If  the 
General  had  been  alive  in  February,  1778,  he,  Mr. 
Francis,  and  Mr.  Wheler,  would  have  formed  a 
majority  againft  Mr.  Haftings  and  Mr.  Harwell,  and 
prevented  the  Maratta  war.  The  refolution,  by 
fuppofing  General  Clavering  to  be  alive,  transfers  to 
him,  becaufe  he  is  dead,  the  merit  of  the  refiftance, 
made  in  Council  to  that  meafure,  and  keeps  the  ef- 
forts of  Mr.  Francis  to  prevent  a  rupture  with  the 
Marattas,  compleatly  out  of  fight. 


THE      EN  D. 


27  88 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 

Los  Angeles 
This  book  is  DUE  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 


Form  L9-40m-7,'56(C790s4)444 


