•9/ 

mi's,  '^'^^-s- 


lh-^'¥ 


'/it 


|b  f)o\hm  ^mitlil  ibrarj. 


Presented  to 

The     Cornell     University,     1870, 

Goi.Dwix    Smith,     M  .    A.    Oxon., 

Regius    Profeffbr    of   Hiftory    in    the 
Univerfity  of  Oxford. 


3   1924  08fi  S'!!"""ffi 


'^  3  8  '37 


..    ■'...-   3i 


Dft 

5' Oh 

FB/ 


l'il~<^ 


MEMOIES 


OF 


SIE    PHILIP    FRANCIS. 


VOL.  11. 


LONDON 
PRINTED     BY     BP0TTI8W00DE     AND     CO. 

ITEW-STREET    SQUAllK 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924088024447 


co:py  of  a  caricatdre  of  :;ir  pb.ilip  frangis 


MEMOIES 


OF 


SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  K.C,B. 


CORRESPONDENCE     AND     JOURNALS. 


COMMENCED    BY   THE   LiTE 


JOSEPH    PAEKES,    Esq. 


COMPLETED  AND   EDITED    BY 


HEEMAN    MEEIVALE,    M.A. 


IN    TWO    VOLUMES 
VOL.    II. 


LONDON : 

LONGMANS,    GEEEN,    AND    CO. 
1867. 

HI 


UNIVEHSiTY! 
UBRARY 


\ 


CONTENTS 

OF 

THE     SECOND     VOLUME. 


CHAPTEK  I. 

FEANCIS   IN   INDIA.      PART   I. 

[1774-1777.] 
Character  and  Conduct  of  Francis  in  office — Voyage  to  India — 'Hints  for 
my  own  conduct' — Opposition  of  the  three  Government  Councillors  to 
Hastings — Life  in  India — Clavering  and  Barwell — Trial  and  Execution 
of  Nuncomar — '  Memorandum  of  Proceedings  of  himself  and  colleagues ' — 
Winnings  at  Whist — Death  of  Colonel  Monson,  and  recovery  of  power  in 
the  Council  by  Hastings — Death  of  Macrabie  ....        page  1 

CHAPTER  II. 

FEANCIS   IN   INDIA. 
[1777-1781.] 

Better  prospects — Hopes  of  the  Governor-Generalship — Character  of  Hastings 
by  Francis — Indian  Journal — ^Hastings  refuses  to  resign — Decision  of  the 
Supreme  Court  between  him  and  Clavering — Mahratta  War — Death  of 
Clavering — ^Arrival  of  Wheler — Burke  on  the  Revenue  Settlement — Affair 
of  the  Grands — Arrival  of  Sir  Eyre  Coote — Temporary  accommodation 
with  Hastings — Rupture — Duel  between  Francis  and  Hastings — Return 
to  England 77 

CHAPTER  HI. 

FEANCIS   IN   ENGLAND  :    IMPEACHMENT   OF   HASTINGS. 

[1781-1796.] 

Return  to  England — Reception  there — Defence  of  his  Indian  career  in  the 
press — ' Boolrsellers'  edition'  of  Junius — His  fortune — Elected  M.P.  for 
Yarmouth — Parliamentary  career  and  qualifications  as  a  Speaker — Return 
to  England  and  Impeachment  of  Hastings — Francis  excluded  from  the 
Managership — Elected  M.P.  for  Blechingley — Correspondence  with  Burke 
— Political  Sentiments 203 


CONTENTS  OF  THE  SECOND  VOLUME. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

PAELIAMENTAET   LIFE — continued. 
[1797-1806.] 

Parliamentary  Secession  of  Fox — Correspondence  respecting  it — Friendship 
with  the  Thanets — Returned  for  Appleby,  1802 — Intimacy  with  the 
Prince  of  Wales — Fears  of  Invasion — Break  up  of  the  Addington  Ministry 
— Family  Aflairs — Death  of  his  two  Daughters  and  his  Wife — Visits  to 
the  Continent — Lord  Grenville  and  Fox  in  office — Disappointments — ■ 
linighted page  303 

CHAPTER  V. 

LATEE  YEAES. 

Relations  with  the  Prince  of  Wales — Reform — Peninsular  War — Second 
Marriage — His  conduct  after  the  appearance  of  'Junius  Identified' — 
Personal  Character — Anecdotes  and  Table  Talk — Last  Illness — Death  358 


APPENDIX. 


PAGE 


I.  Catalogue  of  Tracts  in  the  Library  of  Sir  Philip  Francis    .        .  421 

II.  Character  of  Charles  James  Fox,  a  fragment      ....  443 

in.  Characteristics  of  the  Kings  of  England,  a  fragment  .        .         .  464 

IV.  Characteristics  of  Junius  as  an  individual,  by  Mr.  Parkes  .         .  630 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTEATIONS. 


Copy  of  a  Cabicatuee  of  Sir  Philip  Francis     .         .    Frontispiece. 

Facsimiles  to  he  placed  at  the  end  of  the  Volume,  viz. : — 

1.  Specimen  of  tlie  current  epistolary  Handwriting  of  Francis. 

2.  Specimen  of  the  Clerical  Hand  commonly  used  by  Francis  in  copy- 

ing.   Extract  of  a  passage  of  Cicero,  inscribed  in  a  letter  of  1780. 

3.  Smaller  specimen  of  ditto ;  from  an  entry  by  Francis,  of  a  report 

by  bimself  of  a  debate  in  the  House  of  Lords.     (March  14,  1770.) 

4.  Passage  in  a  letter  written  for  Francis   by  an   amanuensis,  with 

words  in  his  own  hand  introduced, 

5.  Author  of '  Candor '  to  Woodfall. 

6.  Junius  to  "Woodfall,  private.  No.  2.  May  5, 1769. 

7.  Junius  to  Woodfall,  private,  No.  12.  Nov.  12,  1769. 


P.  417,  line  1,  add  was,  after  all,  before  emphatically. 


MEMOIES    AND    COEEESPONDENCE 

OF 

SIR  PHILIP  FEANCIS,  LCB. 


CHAPTEE  I. 

FRANCIS   IN   INDIA.      PAET   I. 

[1774—1777.] 

Character  and  Conduct  of  Francis  in  olEce — ^Voyage  to  India — ■  Hints 
for  my  own  conduct ' — Opposition  of  the  three  Government  Council- 
lors to  Hastings — Life  in  India — Clavering  and  Barwell — Trial  and 
Execution  of  Nuncomar — '  Memorandum  of  Proceedings  of  himself 
and  colleagues ' — Winnings  at  Whist — Death  of  Colonel  Monson,  and 
recovery  of  power  in  the  Council  by  Hastings — Death  of  Macrabie. 

We  now  enter  on  the  second  division  of  the  Hfe  of 
Francis :  his  disturbed  and  eventful  career  in  India. 
The  materials  for  describing  it,  both  public  and  private, 
are  so  extremely  copious,  as  to  leave  the  biographer 
only  a  perplexing  task  of  selection.  The  parliamentary 
and  other  records  of  East  Indian  history,  and  in  parti- 
cular those  which  relate  to  the  subsequent  proceedings 
against  Hastings,  lay  bare,  as  it  were,  the  daily  and 
almost  hourly  vicissitudes  of  the  warfare  carried  on 
round  the  council  table  at  Calcutta  between  the  two 
sections  of  that  body;  or  rather,  the  prolonged  five 
years'  duel,  in  words  and  writings,  between  Francis  and 
Hastings,  ending  in  an  appeal  to  the  actual  pistol.  But 
Francis,  with  that  almost  portentous  industry  which 
characterised  him,  while  deeply  engaged  in  council  and 

VOL.  II.  B 


2  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

Other  business  at  Calcutta,  kept  also  diaries,  maintained 
an  active  correspondence  with  several  friends  in  England, 
copied  or  got  copied  all  his  own  letters,  and  preserved 
those  addressed  to  him.  I  have  before  me  seventeen 
large  foho  and  quarto  manuscript  volumes,  in  which  he 
has  entered  and  bound  up  (apparently)  almost  all  the 
letters  addressed  to  him  in  India,  together  with  tran- 
scripts of  his  own,  mingled  with  official  minutes  of 
council  (the  most  important  of  which  were  printed  for 
parliament  in  the  course  of  the  Hastings  impeachment), 
orders,  memoranda,  public  papers  of  various  kinds ; 
and  (from  1777  to  1781)  a  private  journal,  kept  from 
day  to  day.  His  letters  to  his  wife  thus  copied  are  few, 
and  apparently  he  did  not  mean  them  to  be  preserved, 
except  a  few,  which  may  be  termed  '  demi-official,' 
superscribed,  in  general,  to  'My  dear  Mrs.  Francis,'  which, 
no  doubt,  were  addressed  to  her  with  a  view  to  their 
circulation  amongst  others.^  Little  order  is  maintained 
in  these  volumes,  except  that  of  dates,  not  very  care- 
fully attended  to.  The  most  secret  and  confidential 
communications  are  mingled  with  the  most  trivial,  and 

*  Mrs.  Franci3  kept  for  her  hus'band's  benefit,  during  Hs  absence,  a  regular 
journal  of  domestic  events,  wbicb  she  despatched  to  him  from  time  to  time. 
It  is  the  production  of  a  tenderly  attached  and  admiring  wife ;  but  devoted 
almost  exclusively  to  the  record  of  the  progress  of  the  six  children,  their 
studies  and  their  gaieties,  her  own  little  incursions  into  a  social  world  for 
which  she  was  by  no  meansmade ;  her  solicitude  for  her  own  family  andparents 
(until  the  death  of  both  in  1777) ;  and  the  vicissitudes,  of  which  something 
has  already  been  said,  of  her  economical  affairs.  But  it  is  touching  in  its 
homely  way,  as  it  shows  the  gradual  effect  of  distance,  and  the  evil  influences 
engendered  by  long  absence,  on  domestic  love  which  had  been  so  deeply 
rooted  as  theirs ;  until  she,  so  absolutely  confiding  at  first  in  her  fondness, 
is  forced  to  say  at  last,  '  I  was  but  too  sure  separation  for  seven  years  would 
make  a  great  alteration  in  your  afieotion ;  and  indeed  I  am  sorry  to  say,  I 
fear  it  has  a  very  great  one  indeed.'  She  was  not,  however,  qualified  to  be  a 
sharer  in  his  plots,  nor  a  partner  in  his  fierce  ambition,  nor  to  partake  in  his 
public  or  literary  pursuits ;  and  her  simple  cares,  hopes,  and  sorrows  are 
better  left  unrecorded. 


1774]  RECOEDS  OF  INDIAN  LIFE.  3 

■with  long  political  dissertations  in  the  epistolary  form. 
Some,  addressed  to  ministers  and  their  influential  sup- 
porters, especially  Lord  North  and  Barrington,  Welbore 
EUis  and  Wedderburn  (Lord  Olive's  friend  and  counsel), 
are  strangely  free  in  their  disclosure  of  the  writer's 
personal  feelings,  in  which  he  seems  to  endeavour  to 
make  his  powerful  friends  join  by  mere  force  of  violent 
language.  Those  to  his  private  allies,  chiefly  Godfrey, 
D'Oyly,  Sir  Henry  Strachey,  and  John  Bourke  at  home, 
and  in  India  Sir  John  Day  the  Advocate-General, 
Bristow,  Fowke  and  others,  are  often  humorous,  playful, 
entertaining,  but  even  more  frequently  full  of  ebullition, 
of  sarcasm,  or  of  rancour,  of  irritation  from  the  climate 
and  disgust  at  the  society  of  India,  and  of  profound 
disappointment  and  discontent  with  his  position.  Alto- 
gether, they  form  a  complete  picture  of  the  ordinary  life 
of  this  remarkable  man,  in  the  ungrateful  task,  such  as 
he  esteemed  and  greatly  helped  to  make  it,  of  his  Indian 
banishment. 

His  activity  with  the  pen  was  something  prodigious, 
as,  we  have  seen,  it  had  been  in  youth.  I  have  counted 
as  many  as  twenty  letters,  many  of  them  of  several 
'pages,  written  for  despatch  by  a  couple  of  ships  only, 
in  a  Calcutta  September,  when  (in  these  more  luxurious 
days)  '  the  hills  '  are  the  refuge  of  every  Englishman  who 
can  afford  it,  and  all  but  absolute  inaction  is  observed  by 
the  few  who  are  forced  to  stay  at  home.'     A  very  large 

'  It  is  noticeable  that  one  of  the  points  on  which  Francis's  enemies  in 
India  attaclced  him  was  that  of  idleness,  and  using  other  men's  brains  instead 
of  exerting  his  own.  Captain  Price,  a  personal  enemy,  in  his  observations 
on  the  travels  of  Macintosh  (of  which  more  hereafter),  says  :  '  Hi's  next/  or 
44th  letter,  '  seems  to  have  been  written  with  the  sole  intention  of  exhibit- 
ing the  great  abilities  of  his  patron  and  friend  Mr.  Philip  Francis.  I  shall, 
Mr.  Macintosh,  take  occasion  to  inform  the  world  that  you  needed  not  to 
hfive  asked  leave  of  that  artful  man  to  make  a  few  short  observations  on  his 
works.     If  he  has  written  anything  to  the  Honourable  Company  on  the 

B  2 


4  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  PEANCIS.  [1774 

portion  of  this  mass  of  mannscript  is  in  Ms  own  ascertained 
handwriting,  but  a  good  deal  more  in  that  of  amanuenses 
or  copyists.  His  private  secretary  and  brother-in-law, 
Macrabie,  describing  his  mode  of  life  soon  after  arriving 
in  Calcutta,  says,  that  he  sometimes  dictated  to  five  or  six 
persons  at  once.  The  handwriting  of  Macrabie  acquired 
by  degrees  a  striking  similarity  to  his  own  :  I  observe 
an  endorsement  on  one  paper  by  his  son  (Philip  Francis 
the  younger)  to  the  effect  that  he  cannot  decide  whether 
that  paper  is  in  his  father's  hand  or  his  uncle's.     He  used 


subject  you  speak  of,  they  are  not  his  own  observations.  He  is,  Sir,  no 
"better  than  yourself;  a  copier  or  commentator  on  the  works  of  other  men  • 
the  custom  of  writing  minutes  on  political  subjects  to  be  entered  on  the  face 
of  the  Company's  consultations,  at  the  members'  own  houses,  has  been  the 
means  of  raising  to  Mr.  Francis  the  little  credit  he  has  obtained.  Whatever 
the  Governor-General  proposed  in  council,  Mr.  Francis  objected  to,  and 
promised  a  minute  at  a  future  meeting.  A  copy  of  the  proposition  was 
carried  home.  Messrs.  Shore,  Ducarrell,  Anderson,  Alexander  or  Mr. 
Charles  Grant  were  sent  for ;  the  three  first  on  all  matters  of  revenue  or 
Hindoo  laws  and  customs ;  the  fourth  on  affairs  of  the  army  •  and 
the  fifth  on  mercantile  affairs :  they  digested  the  minute,  and  Mr.  Francis 
copied  it  and  carried  it  to  the  board.  To  prove  this,  I  refer  to  his  crude  and 
undigested  letters  to  the  Company  exhibited  in  the  Second  Report  of  the 
Select  Committee  of  the  House  of  Commons,  namely,  Nos.  VII.  and  VIII.  of 
the  Appendix.  He  tiever  thought  that  those  curious  productions  would  have 
been  brought  forward  to  the  public  eye,  or  he  would  have  got  Mr.  William 
Harwood,  a  very  able  Company's  servant,  who  came  home  in  the  ship  with 
him,  to  have  revised  them  for  him.  But  he,  like  his  friend  Mr.  Macintosh 
never  fails  to  be  caught  tripping,  when  they  attempt  anything  purely  from' 
their  own  knowledge.  I  shall  prove  the  copartnership  by-and-by.'  To  any 
one  who  has  been  conversant  with  the  papers  of  Francis  and  observed  his 
almost  incredible  industry,  such  charges  are  ludicrous.  But  it  is  true  that 
he  was  a  good  deal  assisted  in  his  '  minutes ; '  chiefly  by  David  Anderson, 
Shore  (afterwards  Lord  Teignmouth),  and  his  own  (and  Lord  Olive's)  particu- 
lar Mend  Ducarel._  Francis  says  so  himself,  in  one  of  his  latest  letters  from 
India,  and  complains  that  some  of  his  minutes  were  a  good  deal  '  under- 
written, '  a  phrase  by  which  he  denotes  an  inferior  style  of  composition.  The 
most  important  of  these  minutes  are  printed,  but  buried  among  masses  of 
parliamentary  papers.  They  exist  also  in  many  folio  volumes  of  MS  pre- 
served by  himself.  'Before  I  went  to  bed  '  (says  the  poet  Moore,  in  his 
.Journal,  Oct.  1818), 'I  read  some  of  Francis's  Indian  minutes,  which  are 
very  ably  done;  quite  able  enough  to  mark  him  as  the  author  of  Junius  ' 


1774]  CHARACTER  OF  FRANCIS.  5 

also  occasionally  a  numerical  cipher  (especially  in  corre- 
sponding with  D'Oyly,  the  most  confidential  ally  of  all), 
which  I  have  not  unravelled,  but  its  occurrence  is  rare. 
Such  are  the  materials  with  which  his  biographer  has  to 
deal.  They  would  afford  materials  for  a  most  complete 
history  of  British  India,  for  seven  important  years,  as 
well  as  of  Francis.  I  must  avoid  the  former,  interesting 
as  the  subject  is.  It  may  be  studied  in  the  pages  of 
Mill  and  other  Indian  historians,  and,  in  a  more  popular 
form,  in  Macaulay's  two  best  biographies  —  'Warren 
Hastings  '  and  '  Chve ;'  and  the  additions  to  our  substan- 
tial knowledge  on  the  subject  which  these  papers  of 
Prancis  may  contribute,  will,  I  hope,  be  extracted  from 
them  by  others.  I  must  content  myself  with  using  them 
for  the  personal  biography  of  the  subject  of  this  work, 
and  assume  in  my  reader  some  knowledge  of  the  great 
public  events  in  which  he  was  engaged. 

We  have  already  had  materials  before  us  for  judging,  to 
a  certain  extent,  of  the  character  and  disposition  of  Philip 
Prancis.  But  the  Greek  proverb,  that  '  office  shows  what 
a  man  really  is,'  was  never  more  distinctly  verified  than 
in  his  case.  Thrown  as  he  was  entirely  on  his  own  re- 
sources when  in  India,  almost  without  friends  qualified 
to  be  counsellors,  between  enemies  on  the  one  hand  and 
dependents  on  the  other,  the  peculiarities  of  his  disposi- 
tion, which  comparative  obscurity  had  hitherto  kept  in 
the  background,  exhibited  themselves  at  once,  and  Ifis 
merits  and  defects,  as  a  chief  among  men  and  adminis- 
trator of  a  great  empire,  came  prominently  forward : 
the  latter,  unfortunately,  counterbalancing  the  former, 
rendering  his  great  abihties  almost  useless,  and  casting  a 
lurid  shade  even  over  the  real  virtues  which  he  possessed. 

The  pugnacious  disposition  of  Prancis,  at  once  hasty 
in  quarrel  and  implacable  in  the  conduct  of  it,  is  fixed 


6  MEMOIRS  OF    SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

on  by  Macaulay  as  one  of  those  principal  characteristics 
which  assimilate  him  to  Junius.  The  well-known  passage 
to  this  effect  (in  his  essay  on  Warren  Hastings)  affords  an 
admirable  instance  of  the  sagacity  of  our  great  historian, 
in  deducing  right  conclusions  from  imperfect  knowledge. 
Had  he  studied  that  mass  of  manuscript  remains  from 
which  these  volumes  are  compiled,  he  would  not  have 
seen  reason  to  correct  or  modify  it  in  any  degree. 
'  Junius '  (he  says)  '  was  clearly  a  man  not  destitute  of 
real  patriotism  and  magnanimity,  a  man  whose  vices  were 
not  of  the  sordid  kind.  But  he  must  also  have  been  a 
man  in  the  highest  degree  arrogant  and  insolent ;  a  man 
prone  to  malevolence,  and  prone  to  the  error  of  mistaking 
his  malevolence  for  public  virtue.  "  Doest  thou  well  to 
be  angry  ?  "  was  the  question  asked  in  old  time  of  the 
Hebrew  prophet.  And  he  answered,  "  I  do  well."  This 
Avas  evidently  the  temper  of  Junius  ;  and  to  this  cause 
we  attribute  the  savage  cruelty  which  disgraces  several 
of  his  letters.  No  man  is  so  merciless  as  he  who,  under 
a  strong  delusion,  confounds  his  antipathies  with  his 
duties.  ...  All  this,  we  believe,  might  stand,  with 
scarcely  any  change,  for  a  character  of  Phihp  Francis.' 

Closely  allied  to  this  master  defect  was  that  of  a  proud 
and  unaccommodating  spirit.  '  You  have  acquired  the 
reputation  of  haughtiness,'  writes  his  intimate  ally,  God- 
frey, to  him  in  a  very  friendly  letter  of  advice,  November  6, 
1775,  '  and  an  instance  was  mentioned  to  me  of  your 
treating  a  gentleman  very  unhandsomely  at  your  own 
table,'  'I  know  not,'  answers  Francis,  June  27,  1776, 
'  on  what  facts  or  appearances  the  charge  of  loftiness  im- 
puted to  me  may  be  founded,  but  I  can  assure  you  by 
everything  that  is  sacred,  the  circumstance  you  allude  to 
is  utterly  without  foundation  :  and  as  you  do  not  men- 
tion the  name  of  the  gentleman  whom  I  am  supposed  to 


1774]  HIS  DISINTERESTEDNESS.  7 

have  ill-treated  at  my  own  table,  I  can  only  say  that  it 
is  not  in  my  nature,  and  an  infamous  calumny.' 

Whether  the  particular  story  were  true  or  false,  the 
moral  of  it  was  undoubted,  and  Francis  would  have  done 
better  to  take  it  to  heart  than  to  fly  into  a  passion  at  the 
notice  of  it.  Men  in  Calcutta  (says  Mr.  Impey)  '  gave 
him  in  derision  the  name  of  King  Francis,  or  Francis  the 
First.' 

One  thing,  however,  must  be  said  for  him,  his  haughti- 
ness, like  the  '  sasva  indignatio '  of  Swift,  was,  to  a  con- 
siderable extent,  provoked  by  the  close  observation  which 
his  position  afforded  him  of  the  weakness  and  meanness  of 
ordinary  men  in  public  hfe.  It  had  been  thus  with  him 
during  the  composition  of  his  anonymous  letters,  when 
the  very  necessity  imposed  on  him  of  finding  food  for 
satire  and  invective  compelled  him  to  search  out  the 
privy  faults  of  those  whom  h6  persecuted.  It  was  so 
much  more  in  India,  where  the  exceeding  venality  and 
corruption  of  too  large  a  proportion  of  the  British 
'  Colony,'  their  absolute  callousness  to  dishonour  in 
the  acquisition  of  pecuniary  gain,  obtruded  themselves 
daily  on  his  notice  without  any  such  research  on  his  part. 
And  it  must  be  said  to  his  honour,  that  he  was  proof, 
himself,  against  the  corruption  which  he  so  vehemently 
condemned  in  others.  Francis  went  to  India  to  seek 
his  fortune.  I  have  found  scarcely  an  imputation  made 
by  his  bitterest  enemies,  and  none  whatever  proved, 
that  he  added  to  it  by  accepting  bribes  or  other  dis- 
honourable means.  His  opportunities  for  doing  so  were 
ample  beyond  the  most  extravagant  wishes.  In  the 
state  of  complete  financial  confusion  in  which  he  found 
Bengal,  the  collectors  of  revenue,  European  and  native, 
had  the  means  of  enriching  themselves  thrown  recklessly 
within  their  grasp,  and  were  ready  enough  to  purchase 


8  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

the  influence  of  any  member  of  the  executive  towards 
obtaining  some  profitable  post.  Francis  (as  we  shall 
see)  had  no  scruple  in  dealing  the  most  sweeping  accusa- 
tions against  his  opponents  in  the  Indian  government  of 
availing  themselves  of  these  opportunities  of  corruption. 
But  I  do  not  find  that  even  the  most  unscrupulous  among 
them  retorted  the  charge.  On  this  head,  at  all  events, 
his  career  challenges  examination,  and  merits  real  honour. 

Another  cause  of  the  unpopularity,  and  comparative 
failure,  of  Francis,  was  of  a  difierent  order.  His  abilities 
were  very  great.  But  they  were  in  a  certain  sense 
unpractical ;  or  rather,  they  did  not  stop  short  at  the 
practical :  a  great  defect  in  an  English  statesman,  if 
immediate  success  is  to  be  the  test  of  his  merits.  Lord 
Brougham  (who  only  knew  him  in  very  advanced  life) 
has  strangely  misunderstood  his  leading  mental  qualities. 
'  His  character '  (he  says  in  his  '  British  Statesmen  ')  was 
full  of  fire,  possessed  of  great  quickness,  was  even,  within 
certain  hmits,  possessed  of  considerable  force :  but  was 
wholly  wanting  in  delicacy,  as  well  as  unequal  to  taking 
enlarged  views,  and  unfit  for  sober  reflexion.' 

Those  who  study  him,  especially  with  the  aid  of  his 
remains  as  yet  unpublished,  will  easily  perceive  that  his 
leading  intellectual  defect  was  of  the  very  opposite  de- 
scription. He  was  apt  to  take  too  enlarged  views  of  every 
subject — too  enlarged,  that  is,  for  immediate  use,  and  for 
the  actual  needs  of  his  political  chiefs  and  patrons.  The 
tendency  of  his  mind  was  eminently  logical  and  crene- 
rahsing.  He  treated  every  question  with  a  disposition  to 
adopt  the  widest  and  most  systematic  conclusions.  On 
the  government  of  India— as  on  English  constitutional 
law,  politics,  and  history,  nay,  on  questions  of  education, 
religion,  literature— it  is  remarkable  how  immediately 
this  disposition  to   reduce  everything  to  system  always 


1774]  GOVERNMENT  OF  BENGAL.  9 

develops  itself  in  his  writings,  and,  in  later  days,  in  his 
parliamentary  speeches.  In  this  respect  he  bore  a  very 
strong  resemblance  to  his  great  friend  and  countryman, 
Edmund  Burke :  his  intense  admiration  for  whom,  at 
a  time  when  Burke  was  not  as  yet  adequately  appreciated 
by  the  public,  was  no  doubt  partly  founded  on  his  con- 
sciousness of  this  similarity.  And  the  result  was  that,  like 
Burke,  he  '  shot  over  the  heads '  of  his  contemporaries,  and 
especially  of  his  fellow-labourers.  '  Junius '  had  laid,  by 
bold  generalizations,  the  foundation  of  modern  doctrines 
of  freedom  of  the  person  and  the  press,  when  very 
few  were  disposed  to  follow  out  his  theories,  except 
mere  demagogues,  who  could  not  really  understand,  and 
merely  abused  them.  And  Francis,  as  we  shall  see  here- 
after, may  be  said  with  equal  truth,  to  have  sketched 
the  outhnes  of  the  system  of  Indian  government  which 
now  prevails:  although  many  years  passed  before  his 
views  were  appreciated,  and  nearly  a  century  before 
they  were  adopted. 

It  is  necessary  to  repeat  that  under  the  Eegulating 
Act,  the  government  of  Bengal  was  vested  in  the  Governor- 
General,  Warren  Hastings,  who  was  also  President  of 
the  Council ;  and  in  four  other  councillors :  Barwell, 
an  old  servant  of  the  Company  and  devoted  adherent  of 
Hastings ;  and  Clavering,  Monson,  and  Francis,  sent  from 
England,  in  point  of  fact,  to  control,  and,  as  they  held 
themselves,  to  supersede,  the  existing  authorities.  For 
the  Governor-General,  although  nominally  head  of  the 
executive,  was  in  council  only  the  equal  of  any  other 
member,  unless  he  had  occasion  to  use  the  casting-vote. 

Undoubtedly,  and  notwithstanding  their  disclaimers,  the 
three  new  councillors  went  out  armed  with  the  most 
uncompromising  spirit  of  hostility  towards  the  government 
of  the   Company,  and  towards  Hastings  in  particular ; 


10 


MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 


although,  as  yet,  their  acquaintance  with  the  former  was 
derived  only  from  study  in  England,  and  with  the  second 
only  from  hearsay.    But  it  must  be  remembered,  injustice 
to  them,  that  the  Company's  administration  had  at  this 
time  broken  down  in  financial  disorganisation  and  threat- 
ening bankruptcy  ;  and  that  Hastings— whom  subsequent 
events,  and  a  reaction  in  the  public  mind  partly  justified 
by  them,  afterwards  elevated  into  a  hero— stood  just  at 
this  time  arraigned  in  general  estimation  of  many  heavy 
misdemeanours,  and  especially  of  the  most  recent  and  the 
worst  of  all,  of  which  impartial  history  cannot  clear  his 
memory.     He  had  sold  the  Eohillas,  a  brave  and,  as  re- 
garded us,  an  innocent  people,  to  military  execution,  by  fb:e 
and  sword,  merely  to  satisfy  by  the  price  of  their  blood 
the  imperious  pecuniary  exigencies  of  his  masters  the 
Directors,  which  a  nobler  spirit  would  have  withstood  even 
in  a  less  sacred  cause.      'Nothing  could  be  more  un- 
fortunate  for  Mr.  Hastings  than  his   war   against    the 
KohiHas,  and  the  suppression  of  his  correspondence  with 
Mr.   Middleton.^      The  first  branded  his  administration 
with  a  mark,  which  its  many  virtues  were  never  able  to 
obhterate,  of  cruel  and  unprincipled  aggression  ;  and  the 
second  stained  him  with  a  natural  suspicion  of  personal 
impurity.     Both  together  gave  his  rivals  those  advantages 
over   him   which   rendered   his   subsequent  administra- 
tion a  source  of  contention  and  misery,  and  involved 
him  in  so  great  a  storm  of  difiSculties  and  dangers  at  its 
close.'  "^ 

The  career  of  Francis  at  the  council  board  in  India  is 
naturally  divided  into  three  periods,  nearly  equal  in 
length.     The  first  lasts  from  his  arrival  in  October  1774, 

'  Hastings's  agent  in  Oude,  part  of  whose  communications  lie  was  accused 
of  suppressing. 
'  Mill's  British  India,  iii.  587. 


1774]  BALANCE  OF  POWER  IN  THE  COUNCIL.  11 

down  to  the  death  of  Monson,  in  September  1776.  During 
all  this  time,  the  three  government  councillors,  by  their 
combined  action,  outvoted  Hastings  and  BarweU ;  and 
Erancis,  by  far  the  ablest  of  the  three,  was  practically 
the  chief  governor  of  the  country,  or  would  have  been 
so  had  his  own  intemperate  nature  allowed.  The  second, 
from  the  death  of  Monson  to  the  arrival  of  Wheler, 
December  1777  :  during  which  Hastings  and  BarweU 
turned  the  tables  on  the  tAvo  survivors  through  the 
former's  casting-vote,  and  absolutely  wrested  all  power 
out  of  the  hand  of  Clavering  and  Francis.  The  third, 
from  Wheler's  arrival  to  Francis's  departure  at  the  end 
of  1780  ;  during  which  forces  were  not  so  uniformly 
balanced,  and,  for  part  of  the  time,  a  suspension  of 
hostihties  existed  between  him  and  Hastings  ;  but,  on 
the  whole,  the  Governor-General  prevailed. 

To  return  from  these  anticipatory  remarks  to  the  events 
of  Francis's  voyage  to  India.  These  are  recounted  in  an 
entertaining  traveller's  journal  by  his  private  secretary 
Macrabie.  They  embarked  on  board  the  Ashburnham 
on  April  1,  but  were  detained  several  days  at  Spithead, 
during  which  the  following  '  plan  of  life '  was  arranged  : 

Our  party  being  now  completed :  viz.  General  Clavering,  Mrs. 
Clavering,  three  Miss  Claverings ;  Colonel  Monson  and  Lady 
Anne  ;  Mr.  Francis  and  Mr.  Macrabie  ;  Colonel  Thornton,  Captains 
De  le  Dnespe  and  Webber ;  and  Mr.  Addison.  These,  with  Mr. 
Lowder,  Captain  Jamieson,  and  the  Doctor  (Mr.  Gordon)  are  the 
constant  company  at  table.  To  these  it  is  agreed  that  there  shall 
be  added  at  dinner,  the  officer  of  the  ship  who  is  on  duty,  and  occa- 
sionally some  one  of  the  passengers  who  are  in  the  second  mess. 
Our  regulations  are  as  follows :  breakfast  at  nine,  dine  at  three, 
drink  tea  at  six,  sup  at  nine.  No  person,  except  the  ladies,  may 
appear  at  table  in  an  undress.  But  it  is  resolved  that  all  trouble- 
some forms  shall  be  banished ;  no  toasts,  nor  any  drinking  of  healths, 
neither  are  there  to  be  any  hot  suppers.  .  .  .  N.B.  We  do  not  play 
cards  on  Sunday.  But  the  party  on  board  the  Anson  do ;  and  drink 
healths  and  bumper  toasts  of  all  sorts. 


12  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

When  a  six  months'  voyage  was  in  contemplation, 
such  preconcerted  arrangements  were  desirable.  The 
'party  on  board  the  Anson'  were  the  judges  of  the 
Supreme  Court  created  by  the  same  Eegulation  Act 
to  which  Francis  owed  his  appointment :  Impey,  Hyde, 
Chambers,  and  Lemaistre.  It  seems  to  have  been  thought 
advisable  that  the  two  vessels  should  keep  close  com- 
pany :  they  left  England,  touched  at  Madeira  and  the 
Cape,  and  entered  the  Hooghly  together.  The  reader 
who  may  notice  in  the  '  Autobiographical  Fragment,'  the 
angry  spirit  excited  in  Francis  by  the  powers  given  to  the 
Supreme  Court — making  the  executive,  as  he  alleged,  the 
'agent,  instead  of  master,  of  the  judicial  power — will 
easily  conceive  the  splenetic  feehngs  which  this  com- 
panionship aroused.  The  arrangement  seemed  hke  that 
satirised  by  Juvenal — 

ac  siti  consul 
Ne  placeat,  curru  servus  portatur  eodem. 

The  Journal  is  full  of  gibes  at  the  Anson  and  her  legal 
freight. 

On  April  21  they  anchored  in  Funchal  Eoad,  and  re- 
mained ten  days  in  the  island,  visiting  the  people  of  dis- 
tinction. '  We  observe,'  notes  Macrabie,  '  that  the  com- 
mission with  the  great  seal  constantly  attends  the  judges. 
The  chief  justice  has  stole  a  march  on  the  gentlemen  of 
the  council  in  point  of  precedence  :  a  mark  of  distinction 
which  takes  from  the  dignity  of  the  latter  without  doing 
any  credit,  in  my  opinion,  to  the  other  honourable  gentle- 
men.' On  the  2nd  of  July  they  sighted  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  and  anchored  in  Symon's  Bay  on  the  3rd ; 
'  amidst  the  rain  and  storms  of  mid- winter,  which  prevails 
in  all  its  horrors  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.'  Neverthe- 
less, '  Mynheer  Brandt,  the  commandant,  comes  to  pay 


1774]  DETAILS  OF  THE  VOYAGE.  13 

his  compliments — which  he  does  in  pretty  good  English, 
though  he  never  was  out  of  the  settlement.  This  gentle- 
man speaks  so  much  of  Banks  and  ^Solander,  and  plants 
and  shells,  that  Lady  Anne  can  no  longer  resist  the  im- 
pulse of  her  curiosity,  but  resolves  to  go  on  shore  imme- 
diately.' The  whole  party  soon  followed,  establishing 
themselves  in  such  lodgings  as  they  could  find,  and  re- 
mained a  fortnight  in  the  colony,  leaving  it  on  the 
18th.^  On  August  20  they  touched  at  the  island  of  Jo- 
anna, and  reached  Madras,  following  their  consort  the 
Anson,  on  the  21st  September.  The  lawyers,  having 
originally  stolen  a  march  on  the  councillors,  victoriously 
kept  ahead. 

The  Supreme  Court  of  Judicature,  says  Macrabie,  always  take  tto 
lead  of  us.  They  sail  better  than  we  do,  and  their  charter  gives 
them  the  precedence.  Their  worships  landed  two  days  before  us. 
What  marks  of  honour  and  respect  they  may  have  been  distin- 
guished by  I  know  not ;  but  nothing  could  exceed  those  shown  to 
our  party.  ...  If  splendour  accompanied  heat,  a  ball  in   India 


'  Some  of  the  customs  of  the  Cape  people  struck  Macrabie's  imagination 
by  their  singularity. 

Sunday,  July  10,  1774. — The  first  day  of  the  week  passes  as  heavily  in 
the  Southern  as  in  the  Northern  hemisphere.  .  .  .  The  order  of  things  is 
strangely  inverted  here  :  we  go  to  Church  to  avoid  sleeping !  A  Dutch 
priest  wears  a  long  black  wig :  and  I  observe  that  sprinkling  is  the  only 
ceremony  used  in  baptism.  The  sign  of  the  cross  is  cautiously  avoided.  I 
suppose  with  a  prudent  view.  If  young  minds  were  to  be  affected  with  the 
vulgar  prejudices  of  Europe,  it  might  prove  a  stumbling-block  in  the  way  of 
their  trade  with  Japan,  &c.  Two  couples  were  married.  One  of  the  bride- 
grooms was  dressed  in  a  black  silk  coat  and  breeches,  and  a  black  wig.  He 
had  indeed  a  waistcoat  of  white  satin  and  white  gloves.  One  bride  was 
dressed  entirely  in  black :  the  other  as  white  as  snow.  Godfather  and  god- 
mother all  wear  black.     What  can  be  the  meaning  of  all  this .'' 

Monday  morning,  July  11. — And  who  the  plague  is  that  man  in  a  scarlet 
coat,  going  through  the  streets  with  a  green  velvet  bag  with  silk  tassels 
under  his  arms  ?  Mr.  Stahr  informs  me  he  is  a  barber.  I  took  him  for  the 
Governor's  Secretary.  By-the-by,  the  Governor  himself  paid  a  visit  of 
ceremony  yesterday  evening  to  General  Clavering;  and  came  in  half  boots, 
and  Madame  la  Gouvemante  had  a  small  pink  hat  upon  one  side  of  her  head, 
like  that  of  an  opera-dancer. 


14  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

ought  to  be  uncommonly  splendid.  The  appearance  of  the  ladies, 
even  before  country  dances,  was  rather  ardent  than  luminous.  When 
the  minuets  are  ended,  they  go  home  with  their  partners  to  undress, 
and,  after  a  little  refreshment,  return  again  in  the  purest  innocence 
of  muslin,  and  in  the  simplicity  of  a  nightgown.  The  zeal  and 
activity  with  which  they  exert  themselves  in  country  dances  is 
exercise  enough  for  the  spectators.  By  dint  of  motion,  these 
children  of  the  sun,  in  a  very  few  minutes,  get  as  hot  as  their 
father,  and  then  it  is  not  safe  to  approach  them.  In  this  agitation 
they  continue,  literally  swimming  through  the  dance,  until  he  comes 
himself  and  reminds  them  of  the  hour. 

After  narrowly  escaping  an  accident  at  the  mouth  of 
the  Hooghly,  they  reached  Calcutta  at  last  on  October  19. 

Exactly  at  noon,  a  comfortable  season  for  establishing  the  etiquette 
of  precedency,  the  whole  party  are  disposed  in  three  boats,  and  both 
courts  safely  landed  at  the  capital  of  their  jurisdiction.  The  pro- 
cession to  the  Governor's  house  beggars  all  description  ;  the  heat, 
the  confusion ;  not  an  attempt  at  regularity.  No  guards — no  person 
to  receive  or  to  show  the  way — no  state.  This  the  age  of  reforma- 
tion.    But  surely  Mr.  Hastings  might  have  put  on  a  ruffled  shirt !  ' 

Hastings — who,  if  informed,  as  he  doubtless  was  by 
advices  from  England,  of  the  disposition  which  his 
visitors,  and  especially  Francis,  entertained  towards  him, 
must  have  felt  Hke  Dryden's  hunter  when  he  listens  to 
the  approach  of  the  bear — 

And  saith,  Here  comes  my  mortal  enemy, 
And  either  he  must  fall  in  fight,  or  I — 

is  said  by  Francis  (but  only  in  a  mutilated  MS.  account 
of  some  private  transactions  between  them,  which  I  find 
in  his  handwriting,  drawn  up  in  a  very  vindictive  spirit 
about  1776)  to  have  been  '  prepared  '  to  bribe  them  with 
an  hundred  thousand  pounds  apiece,  and  to  have  only 
perceived  with  difficulty  that  corruption  was  out  of  the 

'  The  common  story  (preserved  in  the  number  of  the  '  Calcutta  Review,' 
already  quoted)  that  the  three  new  members  of  council  took  oifence  at  being 
greeted  with  a  salute  of  nineteen  giins  only,  instead  of  a  '  royal  salute,'  finds 
no  confirmation  that  I  can  discover  in  the  Francis  papers,  althouoh  he  and 
party  were  ready  enough  to  record  any  supposed  indignity. 


17741  RECEPTION  AT  CALCUTTA.  15 

question.^  At  all  events,  he  judged  it  best,  at  first,  to 
assume  a  courteous  exterior,  and  had  already  addressed 
to  them  at  Madras  a  civil  batch  of  letters,  which  will  be 
found  in  Gleig's  '  Life  of  Hastings.'  They  were  acknow- 
ledged with  equal  politeness.  But  even  this  appearance 
of  courtesy  was  destined  to  be  of  very  short  duration.  On 
October  25  '  that  struggle  of  parties  in  the  council,'  says 
Mr.  Gleig,  'began,  which  throughout  four  long  years 
continued  to  make  its  baleful  influence  felt  to  the  re- 
motest corners  of  the  Company's  possessions  in  India.' 

Macrabie  thus  announces  their  arrival  in  a  letter  to  his 
American  friend  Eichard  Tilman  : — 

November  1774. 
My  dear  Tilman, — We  landed  here  October  19,  npon  which, 
occasion  the  acclamations  were  as  lond,  and  the  congratulations  as 
sincere,  as  we  expected.  We  had  a  very  narrow  escape  upon  the 
coast.  Many  ships  were  lost  in  the  same  storm.  Had  the  prayer 
of  the  wicked  prevailed,  we  should  then  have  met  the  fate  of  the 
Aurora,  and  our  loss  would  have  been  as  little  regarded  in  the  pro- 
vinces. When  virtue  and  justice  fled  from  Europe,  it  was  not  in 
Bengal  they  found  a  refuge.  Our  friends  whom  the  legislature  have 
in  their  wisdom  sent  here  for  the  better  regulating  the  afiairs  of  the 
East  India  Company  have  employment  for  an  age.  Their  hands, 
heads,  and  hearts  are  full ;  and  were  it  not  for  the  most  perfect 
unanimity,  and  that  noble  firmness  of  which  I  despaired  of  ever 
seeking  such  instances,  the  attempt  were  vain.  But  I  shaE  still 
look  forward  in  anxious  hope  that  it  is  not  too  late  for  them  to  save 
a  country.  .  .  .  Here  I  find  Oliver,  the  intimate  friend  of  W. 
Barwell,  under  whose  protection  he  lives  perfectly  era  prince.  He 
laughs  at  my  rigid  virtue,  and  foretells  the  dissolution  of  it  upon  the 
first  approach  of  warm  temptation.  I  would  laugh  with  him,  if  the 
subject  were  not  too  serious ;  but  with  the  noble  example  I  have 
every  hour  before  my  eyes,  I  (would  remain)  intact.     I  am  well 


'  Monson,  a  man  of  scrupuloua  probity,  was  rather  prudish  (according  to 
the  notions  of  Bengal)  in  his  mode  of  exhibiting  it.  He  set  his  face  against 
the  practice  of  receiving,  not  only  substantial  presents,  but  '  nuzzirs '  or 
trifling  tokens  of  respect.  For  which  he  is  only  ridiculed  by  pamphleteers  on 
the  other  side. 


16  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

enough  affected  towards  the  good  things  of  this  life,  but  I  should 
deserve  hanging,  could  I  be  base  enough  to  become  rich  by  unworthy 
means.     .     .     . 

Among  Francis's  papers  of  this  period  is  to  be  found 
the  following,  entitled  '  Hints  for  my  own  conduct.'  Very 
few  men  are  to  be  found  capable  of  carrying  into  execu- 
tion the  sagacious  maxims  which  they  thus  propound  to 
themselves,  and  Francis  certainly  was  not  of  the  number. 

HINTS   FOE  MT   OWN  CONDUCT. 

1.  To  aim  at  preserving  a  personal  consequence  as  much  as  pos- 
sible, independent  of  any  supposed  connexion  with  or  attachment 
to  67. 

2.  To  observe  the  strictest  moderation  not  only  in  the  transaction 
of  business,  but  in  all  my  discourses,  especially  where  the  interests 
or  characters  of  individuals  are  concerned. 

3.  In  council,  to  listen  with  a  respectful  attention  to  every  man's 
opinion,  and  to  deUver  my  own  with  gravity  and  dignity,  and  avoid- 
ing altercation.  Never  to  deUver  any  opinion  on  a  subject  I  have 
not  considered. 

4.  To  study  the  characters  and  views  of  Hastings  and  Barwell, 
and  watch  the  appearance  of  private  connexions  between  any 
members  of  the  council. 

5.  Not  to  be  forward  to  take  any  lead  in  business,  but  rather  let 
it  devolve  on  me. 

6.  To  receive  everybody  with  affability,  and  do  as  many  kind 
of&ces  as  possible. 

7.  When  prosecutions  are  necessary,  to  seem  to  be  forced  into 
them. 

8.  To  encourage  the  resort  of  young  people  to  me,  from  whom  I 
may  learn  the  current  opinions  with  respect  to  persons  and  things. 
Their  openness  will  more  than  make  good  their  want  of  judgment. 

9.  To  speak  of  the  Company  and  Court  of  Directors  with  the 
utmost  respect  and  submission. 

10.  In  council,  not  to  dispute  or  seem  impracticable  about  trifles  ; 
and  never  protest  but  upon  great  occasions  :  then  do  it  with  argu- 
ment, dignity,  and  firmness. 

11.  In  making  reformations,  to  take  care  not  to  offend  bodies 
of  men  and  individuals  at  the  same  time. 

12.  If  certain  connexions  should  be  formed,  to  keep  at  a  distance, 


1774]  HINTS  FOE  HIS   CONDUCT.  17 

and  let  it  be  supposed  that  I  would  do  more  good,  if  it  were  ia  my 
power. 

13.  To  watcli  everybody  in  my  family  with  regard  to  the  accept- 
ance of  presents,  that,  while  I  act  clearly  myself,  I  may  not  suffer 
by  their  corruption. 

14.  In  general  to  avoid  the  odium  of  violent  or  offensive 
measures.     Concurring  only,  not  seeming  to  promote. 

15.  To  adopt  and  unite  all  Lord  Olive's  friends  to  me,  without 
however  offending  others. 

16.  To  live  with  economy,  but  not  with  reserve  ;  so  that  men  may 
have  a  pleasure  in  resorting  to  my  house  without  the  expectation  of 
extravagant  entertainments. 

17.  Above  all  things  to  beware  of  giving  a  sudden  assent  to  the 
measures  or  principles  of  any  former  government.  To  avoid,  if  it 
be  possible,  giving  any  opinion  (concerning  the  system  actually 
pursued)  that  may  bind  or  entangle  me  hereafter.  I  think  this  may 
be  done  at  the  same  time  that  I  show  Mr.  Hastings  that  I  meet 
him  with  a  sincere  and  upright  intention  to  support  his  future 
administration.  The  orders  of  the  Court  of  Directors  will  always 
be  a  plea  for  not  deciding  suddenly  upon  systems. 

Macrahie  to  Kirleman. 

December  1,  1774. 

I  assure  you  most  faithfully,  that  as  far  as  my  knowledge  and 
observation  extend,  the  three  gentlemen  whom  I  had  the  honour  of 
accompanying  to  India  left  England  with  a  most  favourable  dispo- 
sition towards  their  colleagues ;  too  favourable  to  be  affected  by 
trifles.  This  disposition  was  increased  by  the  friendly  congratula- 
tory letters  they  had  received  at  Madras  from  Mr.  Hastings.  But 
cordiality,  at  least  in  public  affairs,  is  now  at  an  end.  The  line  is 
drawn,  and  neither  party,  with  honour  or  decency,  can  recede.  It  goes 
so  far,  that  I  am  sure  it  will  be  impossible  for  them  to  act  together. 
....  We  earnestly  request  that  you  will  possess  yourself  of  a 
thorough  knowledge  of  the  subject  before  you  decide.  Think  and 
act  for  yourself,  and  you  must  do  right.  I  speak  in  Mr.  Francis's 
name  when  I  entreat  you  not  to  commit  yourself  hastily  on  either 
side.  ...  As  to  what  personally  concerns  him  and  his  friends  here, 
they  have  already  taken  their  resolution.  They  hold  it  unworthy 
of  their  character  to  be  engaged  in  perpetual  and  useless  contest 
and  altercation.  If  their  conduct  hitherto  is  approved  of,  it  should 
be  declaredly  so,  and  they  must  be  supported.  If  not,  they  will 
receive  their  recall  without  repining.  But  woe  be  to  Bengal — woe 
be  to  England,  if  that  should  happen. 

VOL.  II.  0 


18  MEMOIRS  OF   SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

Francis's  first  private  letters  of  importance  went  by 
the  same  ship.^ 

Francis  to  John  Bourlce. 

November  30,  1774. 
I  should  be  ashamed  to  throw  away  a  thought  upon  my  own 
misety — the  greatest  however  that  my  nature  is  capable  of  enduring 
— ^when  I  see  this  glorious  empire,  which  I  was  sent  to  save  and 
govern,  tottering  upon  the  verge  of  ruin  ;  and  no  other  hope  before 
me  but  barely  that  of  preserving  my  own  honour  from  the  general 
destruction.  To  what  a  situation,  think  you,  is  the  richest  country 
in  the  world  reduced  (Bengal  was  once  that  country,  and  nature 
intended  it  should  be  so)  when  the  conquest  and  extirpation  of  all  the 
little  innocent  states  about  us,  who  were  our  friends,  who  were  our 
barrier,  and  who  ought  to  have  been  the  constant  objects  of  our 
care  and  protection,  is  considered  as  a  necessary  measure  of  finance, 
to  support  the  declining  revenues  of  Bengal,  and  resolved  upon 
with  as  much  ease  and  indifference  as  the  most  trifling  article  in 
the  budget !  Let  the  Court  of  Directors  look  to  it ;  this  is  not  a 
question  of  party,  nor  does  it  touch  the  India  Company  alone :  the 
question  goes  to  the  nation-^Bengal  or  not  Bengal  ?  "We  have  told 
them  the  truth  ;  we  shall  continue  to  do  so.  The  corruption  is  no 
longer  confined  to  the  stem  of  the  tree,  or  to  a  few  principal 
branches  ;  every  twig,  every  leaf  is  putrified.  Obtain  a  sight  of  our 
despatches.  Talk  to  Ned  Burke  ;  there  must  be  a  miscarry.  He  is 
wanted  here.  It  would  take  him  out  of  the  line  of  English  politics, 
and  place  him  where  his  virtue  and  abilities  ought  to  be  employed. 
Common  men  will  not  do.  I  would  resign  my  place  to  him  with 
joy,  or  I  would  act  with  him,  or  I  would  act  under  him.  This  is 
but  a  hint ;  I  hope  it  will  be  adopted  and  pursued  elsewhere.  Tou 
see  it  is  of  a  most  secret  nature.  At  all  events,  let  me  conjure  him, 
by  everything  he  owes  to  his  own  honour,  to  the  cause  of  truth,  to 
justice,  and  to  the  English  nation,  to  banish  every  idea  of  prejudice 
or  predilection  when  he  examines   the   Indian  question,  which  I 


'  Throughout  his  stay  in  India,  Francis  sent  despatches  and  letters  regu- 
larly by  the  Company's  ships.  He  also  often  sent  duplicates  by  way  of 
Suez.  A  letter  took  from  four  to  seven  months  in  its  transit,  consequently 
more  than  a  twelvemonth  elapsed,  as  a  rule,  between  the  despatch  of  tidings 
from  one  country  and  the  receipt  of  notice  of  its  arrival  in  the  other.  How 
great  an  advantage  such  a  state  of  things  gave  the  authority  in  possession— 
that  is  to  say,  Hastings  in  his  struggle  with  his  coUeagues— needs  no  expla- 
nation. 


1774]  STATE  OF  BENGAL.  19 

think  will  soon  go  before  Parliament.  I  am  in  that  predicament  in 
■wMcli  I  ■will  not,  and  cannot,  be  contented  with  merely  his  approba- 
tion. He,  and  every  honest  man  (if  you  have  none  of  that  character 
left,  we  have  none  to  send  you),  must  come  forward  and  give  us  his 
support.  Tell  him.  from  me — and  as  I  speak  truth  with  knowledge, 
so  may  I  be  honoured  with  his  friendship  or  blasted  with  his 
contempt — ^that  everything  he  has  ever  said  of  the  state  of  domestic 
affairs  represents  a  state  of  innocence,  of  purity,  a  refinement  of 
virtue,  an  excess  of  integrity  bordering  upon  a  vice,  compared  with 
the  condition  in  which  we  find  the  administration  of  this  wretched 
country.  .  .  .  My  heart,  my  head,  my  hand,  have  all  had  too 
heavy  a  load  upon  them  to  perform  their  offices  vri.th  regularity.  I 
will  not  sufiermyself,  however,  to  speak  passionately  to  anybody  but 
yourself.  In  our  public  despatches  you  will  find  argument  enough  ;  on 
suchan  occasionmore  warmth  than  we  have  expressed  might,  perhaps, 
be  not  only  allowable,  but  right :  mere  logic  may  convince,  but  we 
want  an  animated  reason  to  make  men  feel. 

Farewell  !  I  do  not  call  for  any  proof  of  the  friendship  you  owe 
me.  I  do  not  appeal  to  your  affection.  Be  the  friend  of  the  public, 
and  you  wiU  be  mine.  Keep  this  letter,  that  if  ever  I  should  swerve 
from  my  duty,  you  may  fling  it  in  my  face. 

The  following  postscript  of  a  letter  to  Lord  Barrington, 
of  the  same  date,  1774  (concerning  matter  of  private 
patronage),  is,  I  presume,  sarcastic : — 

It  would  give  your  lordship,  as  it  did  us,  infinite  comfort  to 
observe  the  state  of  hearty  union  in  which  we  found  our  colleagues. 
Such  a  glorious  sacrifice  of  private  enmity  to  the  public  service  has 
not,  I  believe,  been  seen  since  the  days  of  Themistocles  and  Aris- 
tides. 

'To  do  positive  good,'  he  writes  by  the  same  mail  to  Welbore 
EUis,  his  own  earliest  patron — the  little  mannikin  EUis  of  '  Junius  ' 
was  now  treasurer  of  the  navy, — '  with  the  chief  executive  officer  and 
another  of  the  council  perpetually  meeting  us  in  front,  is  impracti- 
cable. Mr.  H.  has  contrived  to  draw  the  whole  administration  into 
his  own  hands.  The  consequence  is,  that  whatever  information  we 
get  is  extorted  from  him ;  and  you  see  how  easy  it  is  for  a  man  in 
his  situation  not  only  to  perplex  and  deceive  us,  but  to  retard  and 
embarrass  the  execution  of  measures  already  resolved  on.  As  to 
inquiries  into  abuses,  he  tells  us  plainly  that  he  looks  upon  every  such 
attempt  on  our  part  as  a  personal  attack  upon  his  administration ; 

0  2 


20  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1774 

and  indeed  with  some  reason,  for  as  this  country  is  sold  in  jobs 
from  top  to  bottom,  so,  let  the  case  be  what  it  may,  we  are  sure  to 
find  Mr.  H.  or  some  of  his  connections  one  way  or  other  concerned 
in  it.     This  makes  our  labour  endless  and  miserable.' 

Hastings'  version  of  the  state  of  affairs  will  be  found 
in  his  private  letters,  especially  that  to  Lord  North,  of 
December  4,  1774.^ 

'  The  cause  assigned  for  these  differences,'  he  says,  after 
describing  their  intensity,  '  is  the  Eohilla  war,'  on  which 
he  proceeds  to  justify  himself. 

'  General  Olavering,'  he  writes  to  his  friend  Mr.  Palk,  '  is,  I  verily 
believe,  a  man  of  strict  honour  ;  but  he  brought  strong  prejudices 
with  him,  and  he  receives  all  his  intelligence  from  men  whose  aim 
or  interest  it  is  to  increase  those  prejudices.  And  he  has  acted  a 
foolish  part,  for  which  I  could  punish  him,  if  I  chose,  by  leaving 
him  in  the  chair  which  he  has  taken  much  pains  to  strip  of  all  its 
consequence,  and  to  which  neither  his  abilities  nor  his  experience 
enable  him  to  give  a  consequence  of  any  other  kind.  Colonel 
Monson  is  a  sensible  man,  but  received  all  his  first  impressions  from 
Major  Grant,  and  acts  in  all  things  from  them.  He  no  doubt  thinks 
the  second  place  better  than  the  first.  As  to  Francis,  I  shall  say 
nothing  of  him  !  ' 

The  details  of  the  violent  proceedings  of  the  majority, 
during  the  months  which  immediately  followed  their 
arrival,  will  be  found  in  many  authorities.  They  censured 
the  acts  of  Hastings  and  recalled  his  agents  ;  Middleton, 
withdrawn  from  Oude,  was  succeeded  by  a  friend  of 
Francis's,  Mr.  Bristow,  in  whom  the  latter  seems  to  have 
taken  a  peculiar  interest.  He  addressed  the  following 
characteristic  letter  to  Bristow's  sister  in  England,  urging 
her  to  use  her  influence  to  get  the  appointment  confirmed. 
Francis's  correspondence  with  ladies  often  runs  into  this 
kind  of  humorous  gallantry,  but  there  seems  on  the 
present  occasion  more  earnestness  in  it  than  usual. 

•  Qleig'a  'Memoirs  of  Hastings,'  i,  471. 


1775]  BRISTOW   SENT  TO  OUDE.  21 

To  Miss  Bristow. 

January  11,  1775. 

Dear  Madam, — Tour  brother  will  fully  inform  you  of  the  rank 
and  consequence  of  a  post  to  which  his  distinguished  merit  has 
raised  him.  But  I  must  tell  you,  my  sweet  friend,  that  advance- 
ment in  this  country  is  not  the  necessary  consequence  of  distiu- 
guished  merit,  and  that  his  cause  must  be  supported  in  England  by 
the  hearty  exertions  of  all  his  family  and  friends.  Tou,  madam, 
are  supposed  to  have  eloquent  eyes  ;  and,  setting  aside  every  other 
consideration,  I  assure  you  you  cannot  employ  them  in  a  more 
honourable  cause.  Let  them  shine  with  all  their  radiance  upon  the 
present  occasion.  To  your  brother  you  are  bound  by  ties  and  duties 
of  which  I  need  not  remind  you.  To  me  you  owe  an  entire  credit,  and 
some  return,  when  I  assure  you  that  I  am,  with  unalterable — I  must 
chuse  my  word — attachment,  duty,  and  esteem. 

Dearest  Miss  Bristow, 

Tour  faithful  servant, 

P.  F. 

Concerning  this  gentleman,  one  of  Francis's  correspon- 
dents (Colonel  Fraser)  writes  from  London  as  follows : — 

January  12,  1776. 
His  friends,  one  and  all,  feel  the  obligation  of  his  appointment 
with  the  utmost  gratitude.  The  idea  of  objectiug  to  him  as  not  of 
sufficient  birth  to  hold  any  appointment  in  the  Company's  service 
is  too  ridiculous.  In  that  respect  he  is  surely  inferior  to  the  Earl 
of  Bute's  son,  but  to  very  few  of  the  Company's  servants.  His 
father,  one  of  the  most  respectable,  and  once  one  of  the  most  opulent 
merchants  in  London,  was  the  younger  son  of  an  old  family, 
possessed  of  an  estate  of  3,000?.  a  year,  which  Mr.  Bristow's  cousin- 
german  now  enjoys :  one  of  his  aunts  was  married  to  the  Earl  of 
Effingham,  and  another  to  the  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire.  If  those 
employed  in  similar  stations  to  his  could  give  as  good  a  pedigree, 
there  would  not  be  such  complaints  here  about  upstart  nabobs. 

On  January  12,  1775,  Francis  informs  Lord  Clive 
that — 

Colonel  Macleane  has  resigned  his  employment,  and  goes  home 
by  this  mail  with  the  Hon.  Mr.  Stewart,  a  son  of  Lord  Bute,  under 
his  care  !  They  are  both  commissioned,  as  I  verily  believe,  to  sup- 
port Mr.  Hastings,  and  do  us  all  the  mischief  they  can.     .     .     . 


22  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FRAJS^CIS.  [1775 

Hastings  wiU  assuredly  stand  his  ground  till  the  return  of  the 
letters  ;  not  from  any  comfort  he  enjoys  in  his  ofiBce,  or  any  real 
desire  to  continue  in  it ;  hut  he  is  afraid  of  a  shot  in  his  rear,  and 
dire  necessity  makes  him  face  about.  He  has  no  possible  hope  of 
saving  his  head  but  by  suppressing  those  discoveries  which  would 
be  immediately  made  if  he  were  to  keep  his  ground. 

Francis,  with  all  his  acuteness,  had  not  discovered  the 
real  purpose  of  Maclean's  mission.  The  truth  was  that 
Hastings— driven  for  the  time  almost  to  desperation  by 
the  hopeless  nature  of  the  struggle  in  which  he  was  in- 
volved against  an  overbearing  majority,  and  apprehensive 
of  not  meeting  support  in  England,  notwithstanding  the 
power  of  his  friends,  by  reason  of  the  unpopularity 
brought  on  him  through  the  Eohilla  war — had  empowered 
Maclean  to  tender  his  resignation,  conditionally,  to  the 
Court  of  Directors.  The  daring  manner  in  which  Hastings 
chose  afterwards  to  repudiate  his  own  instructions  is 
matter  of  history.  But  Maclean's  own  evidence  is  surely 
conclusive. 

If  certain  things  were  not  obtained,  I  was  ordered  to  signify  Mr. 
Hastings'  wish  to  be  relieved ;  if  they  were  obtained,  I  was  ordered 
not  to  make  this  signification.  ...  I  have  now  notified  to  you 
Mr.  Hastings'  wish  to  have  a  successor  appointed ;  and  no  blame 
can  He  with  me  now,  but  that  of  having  ventured  so  long  to  delay 
it.> 

Hastings,  therefore,  after  despatching  Maclean,  only 
awaited  the  result  of  his  negotiation  to  leave  the  country, 
if  that  negotiation  should  turn  out  unsuccessful.  But  this 
result  could  not  be  learnt  under  a  twelvemonth,  and  in 
the  meantime  the  war,  or  rather  the  succession  of  blows 
administered  to  Hastings  by  the  majority,  continued  un- 
abated. 

Leaving,  however,  for  a  while,  the  course  of  public 

'  See  his  letter  of  Nov.  10, 1776,  in  Gleig's  'Memoirs  of  Hastings,'  vol. 
ii.  p.  88.    Thornton's  History  of  India,  vol.  ii.  p.  109. 


1775]  FRANCIS'S  COUNTRY-HOUSE.  23 

events  to  develop  itself,  let  us  turn  to  the  picture  which 
these  papers  afford  of  Francis's  private  establishment  on 
his  first  arrival  in  India.  We  owe  this  chiefly  to  his  faith- 
ful secretary. 

Macrabie  writes  in  December  : — 

The  expenses  of  this  settlement  are  beyond  all  conception.  Mr. 
Francis  pays  500Z.  a  year  for  a  large  but  rather  mean  house,  like  a 
barn,  with  bare  walls,  and  not  a  single  glass  window.  His  estab- 
lishment of  servants,  which  is  thought  pitiful,  consists  of  sixty. 
T  maintain  fifteen,  and  yet  am  forced  sometimes  to  clean  my  own 
shoes.  My  greatest  comfort  is  to  turn  them  all  out  and  lock  the 
doors.  These  brutes  possess  every  bad  quality  except  drunkenness 
and  insolence  ;  indeed,  they  make  full  amends  for  the  first  by  stupe- 
fying themselves  with  chewing  bang,  and  their  want  of  the  other  is 
pretty  well  supplied  by  a  most  provoking  gravity  and  indifference. 

,  By  the  month  of  February,  however,  Francis  had 
planted  himself  more  to  his  taste,  at  a  small  'lodge,'  as 
Macrabie  calls  it,  which  he  had  purchased  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Calcutta.  He  describes  it  as  consisting  of 
'  a  spacious  hall  and  four  chambers,  surrounded  by  a 
verandah  and  colonnade,  and  standing  in  the  midst  of 
twenty  acres  of  ground  :  pleasant  to  the  last  degree.' 

Family  letter.     Directed  for  Mrs.  Francis,  to  the  care  of  Mr.  Boherts, 
India  House.     Sent  hy  the  Button,  Cajpt.  Gole. 

Calcutta,  January  14,  1775. 
A.  M.  to  his  friends  at  Fulham  and  in  Duke  Street,  greeting.  .  .  . 
I  have  now  left  off  journalising  altogether,  and  in  so  doing  I  act 
doubtless  the  part  of  a  good  Christian.  For  if  '  sufficient  to  the  day 
is  the  evil  thereof,'  we  have  no  right  to  plague  our  honest  hearts 
and  those  of  our  friends  with  a  recollection  of  evils  which  are  past. 
In  fact,  many  of  our  days  are  marked  with  such  a  superabundance 
of  vexation,  that,  if  we  were  not  determined  to  kick  our  cares  be- 
hind us,  and  forget  them  with  all  our  might,  we  should  scarce  have 
resolution  to  encounter  those  of  the  time  to  come.  In  treating  of 
this  subject,  it  may  be  proper,  in  order  to  avoid  confusion,  to  dis- 
tinguish our  cares  under  their  several  heads.  We  have  public 
cares  and  domestic  ones  :  cares  general,  and  particular  cares. 


24  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

The  chief  weight  of  public  care  falls  upon  Mr.  F.,  but  as  his 
spirit  and  resolution  to  meet  its  attacks,  and  his  abilities  to  coun- 
teract and  overcome  them,  are  beyond  all  compare,  he  laughs  at 
difficulties,  and  indeed  gives  vigour  to  us  all.  He  keeps  four  of  us 
in  constant  employment,  and  is  sometimes  dictating  to  all  at  a 
time. 

I  do  not  know  whether  the  plague  inseparable  from,  my  office  of 
sheriff  should  come  under  the  head  of  public  or  particular  cares. 
By  the  bye,  there  is  something  whimsical  enough  in  this  business. 
Could  any  one  have  supposed  that  it  was  among  the  decrees  of  fate, 
and  moreover  should  become  one  in  a  humian  record,  that  on 
December  20,  1774,  A.  M.,  junior,  should  be  sworn  in  high  sheriff 
of  Calcutta,  and  that  Samuel  Tolfrey,  the  younger,  should  be  ap- 
pointed his  deputy  ?  Yet  so  it  is ;  and  a  very  active  faithful 
assistant  I  have  hitherto  found  him.  If  you  were  to  fall  in  the 
way  of  India  people,  you  would  hear  wonderful  things  concerning 
this  sam.e  office  of  sheriff.  Ton  might  be  told,  as  I  have  been,  that 
it  has  yielded  a  profit  of  30,000,  and  in  oneyear  of  40,000rupees,  equal 
to  from  near  3,000L  to  4,000Z.  sterling.  There  is  such  a  tradition, 
but  it  is  one  of  those  which  has  lost  nothing  by  handing  down ;  nor 
should  I  have  quoted  it  but  in  order  to  add  that  I  am  assured  it 
did  not  produce  above  a  fourth  part  of  the  sum  last  year,  and  that 
the  experience  of  three  weeks  has  given  birth  to  no  idea  upon  the 
subject,  in  me  or  my  deputy,  except  (after  our  obligations  to  the 
friends  who  honoured  us  with  the  nomination)  a  hearty  desire  to 
resign  it  whenever  we  can  with  credit.  The  plague  and  trouble 
we  meet  with  in  the  execution  of  the  duties  are  inexpressible,  and 
the  honours  annexed  to  the  office  do  not  much  lighten  the  burden 
of  it.  For  whether  I  am  taking  a  survey  of  the  jail  and  the  felons 
committed  to  my  charge,  receiving  petitions  from  prisoners,  or 
executing  warrants  to  add  to  their  number  ;  planning  modes  of 
arrest  with  bailiffs,  or  marching  in  all  the  pomp  of  white  staves, 
halberds,  and  maces,  before  my  Lords  the  Judges,  to  court,  and 
lolling  upon  a  velvet  cushion  by  their  side  within  it,  I  feel  myself 
out  of  my  element,  and  wish  the  law  and  the  execution  of  it, 
together  with  all  the  forms,  members,  and  appurtenances,  at  the 
d . 

The  domestic  cares  in  this  country,  to  the  person  who  thinks  it 
in  the  least  degree  essential  to  his  welfare  that  bills  should  be 
examined  before  they  are  paid,  and  that  servants  who  are  born  and 
bred  rogues  should  cheat  within  some  degree  of  moderation,  will  find 
full  employment  for  his  faculties.  Our  household  consists  of  (list 
of  servants).     To  superintend  this  tribe  of  devils,  and  their  several 


1775]  MODE  OF  LITE  AT  CALCUTTA.  25 

departments  (the  nature  of  wliioli  you  shall  have  explained  to  you 
in  my  next  letter  at  large  and  in  plain  English),  we  have  a  numerous 
collection  of  Banyans,  chief  and  subordinate,  with  their  train  of 
clerks,  who  fill  a  large  room,  and  are  constantly  employed  in  con- 
trolling or  rather  conniving  at  each  other's  accounts.  We  are 
cheated  in  every  article  both  within  and  without  doors  ;  but  let  not 
my  chapter  of  cares  add  a  single  scruple  to  yours.  We  are  safe  in 
essentials,  and  hve  in  determined  practice  of  prudent  and  proper 
economy. 

In  his  next  letter,  Macrabie  informs  the  family  that 
Francis  had  purchased  the  small  '  lodge  '  above  alluded 
to,  and  '  talks  already  of  quitting  Calcutta  or  of  having 
only  a  small  house  by  way  of  office  and  dressing-room.' 
'  None  but  friends  are  to  be  admitted  here :  Lady 
Impey  yesterday,  Lady  Anne  and  Colonel  Monson  to-day.' 
(Lady  Anne  was  a  great  favourite  with  Francis,  and  one 
of  the  few  members  of  his  little  society  whose  loss  by 
death  he  seems  to  have  really  regretted. )  Macrabie  then 
describes  the  inmates  of  the  establishment :  imprimis, 
Macleod,  Francis's  indispensable  steward  and  superin- 
tendent ;  and  goes  into  a  particular  account  of  its  economy, 
curious  as  a  picture  of  Calcutta  life  a  century  ago. 
Francis  had  in  all  sixty-two  servants  ;  Macrabie,  twenty ; 
Mr.  Livius  and  Mr.  Collings,^  who  occupied  part  of  the 
house,  twenty-eight. 

One  hundred  and  ten  servants  to  wait  upon  a  family  of  four  people, 
and  yet  we  are  economists  !  Oh,  monstrous  !  teU  me  if  this  land  does 
not  want  weeding  !  We  rise,  either  in  town  or  country,  about  six. 
Mr.  F.  then  rides  for  an  hour ;  breakfast  before  eight.  Two  morn- 
ings in  the  week  are  public ; — we  then  sit  down  thirty,  frequently 
more.  At  nine  or  ten  Mr.  F.  goes  to  council :  returns  two,  three, 
four  or  five  to  dine, — this  happens  five  days  in  the  week.  Ton  have 
been  told  of  our  dinners :  often  fifty  guests,  one  hundred  servants, 
but  neither  comfort  nor  society  ;  seldom  sit  two  hours.  Then  to  bed 
to  digest,  rise  at  sunset,  and  take  an  airing  in  your  carriage,  if  you 


^  Both  of  these  friends  and  fellow-lodgers  of  Francis's  had  appointments 
under  the  government  of  Bengal. 


26  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

have  one,  else  walk  as  I  do.  (This  was  in  Febrnary.)  Return  to 
tea,  then  dress  and  visit.  Little  card-playing,  late  suppers.  In  ten 
minutes  after  your  return  home,  the  servants  desert,  and  leave  you 
to  your  meditations. 

Francis,  at  this  time,  and  indeed  throughout  his  stay 
in  India,  addressed  frequent  private  letters  to  Lord 
North  on  its  affairs.  They  are  extremely  valuable, 
but  most  of  the  matter  which  they  contain  is  reproduced 
in  the  numerous  official  minutes  and  voluminous 
correspondence  with  the  Court  of  Directors  which  passed 
at  the  same  time.  Each  of  the  several  leaders  of 
party  at  Calcutta  was  plying  the  authorities  in  England 
with  urgent  representations  of  his  own  case.  .Few  mails 
arrived  which  did  not  bring  Lord  North  some  violent 
Demosthenic  attack  by  Francis  on  Hastings,  some  bitter 
complaint  of  Hastings  against  Francis.  Hastings,  in  addi- 
tion, used  all  the  private  influence  he  could  procure  with 
the  Court  of  Directors ;  his  friend  Chief  Justice  Impey, 
with  Lord  Weymouth,  Thurlow,  and  Dunning,  as  appears 
by  his  correspondence ;  Clavering,  with  his  friends  at 
Court ;  Francis  chiefly  with  Lord  Barrington,  Welbore 
Ellis,  and  Wedderburn.  If  the  councils  of  India  were 
distracted,  those  of  England  on  the  subject  of  India 
were  scarcely  less  so.  Lord  North,  however,  though 
vehemently  suspected  by  each  party  at  Calcutta  of 
playing  them  false,  seems  to  have  held  the  balance, 
at  least  for  some  time,  pretty  fairly  between  them,  and 
to  have  had  throughout  two  principal  objects  in  view — 
to  banish  Indian  dissensions  out  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
and  to  keep  on  fair  terms  with  the  Court  of  Directors. 

Among  Francis's  early  letters  to  Lord  North,  that  from 
which  the  following  extract  is  taken  is  assuredly  of  no 
common  interest.  It  shows,  distinctly  enough,  that 
Francis   conceived   (almost   as   soon  as  he   arrived,  his 


1775]  PLAN  FOR  GOVEENMEXT  OF  INDIA.  27 

critics  averred)  the  outlines  of  a  complete  scheme  for 
the  government  of  India,  and  moreover  that  the  scheme 
in  question  was  essentially  the  same  in  its  main  features 
with  that  which  was  inaugurated  near  a  century  afterwards, 
when  the  dominion  of  the  Company,  which  had  so  long 
delayed  the  accomplishment  of  change,  was  brought  to 
an  end. 

Francis  to  Lord  North. 

February  1775. 

The'  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  declare  the  king's  sovereignty 
over  the  provinces.  This  I  mention  as  a  fundamental  condition, 
sine  qua  non.  Without  it,  there  can  properly  be  no  government  in 
this  country.  The  people  at  present  have  either  two  sovereigns,  or 
none.  We  coin  money  in  the  name  of  Shah  AUum.  We  collect 
and  appropriate  the  revenues  by  virtue  of  his  grant :  and  if  there 
be  any  such  thing  as  justice  in  the  country,  it  must  be  administered 
in  his  name,  or  that  of  his  representative  the  Sabah  of  Bengal.  It 
has  been  the  policy  of  Mr.  Hastings  to  abolish  the  sovereignty 
of  the  Mogul  in  fact,  and  to  deny  it  in  argument,  without,  however, 
attempting  to  substitute  any  other  except  his  own.  By  this  irre- 
gular way  of  acting,  he  has  involved  himself  and  us  in  a  labyrinth  of 
contradictions  and  absurdities,  both  of  fact  and  argument,  from 
which  nothing  can  extricate  our  government  but  an  immediate 
declaration  of  His  Majesty's  sovereignty  over  the  kingdoms  of 
Bengal,  Bahar,  and  Orissa.  This  single  operation  wiU  clear  the 
way  and  relieve  us  from  a  multitude  of  difficulties. 

The  jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Judicature  should  be 
made  to  extend  over  all  the  inhabitants,  who  will  then  know  no 
other  sovereign  but  the  king  of  Great  Britain.  I  conceive  that  this 
may  be  done  without  touching  the  country  courts,  or  departing  from 
the  laws  and  customs  of  the  people. 

The  Bengal  and  Persian  eras  must  be  set  aside,  and  the  Christian 
era  established  by  an  act  of  power. 

The  English  language  must  alone  be  used  in  all  accounts  with 
the  government ;  as  conquerors  we  have  a  right  to  impose  any  con- 
dition on  the  people  which  may  be  essentially  necessary  to  the  pre- 
servation of  the  conquest.  But  it  is  unnecessary  for  us  to  impose  it 
by  authority.  The  people  are  sensible  of  the  great  advantage  of 
learning  English,  and  are  universally  desirous  of  possessing  it.  It  is 
highly  to  the  interest  of  government,  in  every  sense,  that  this  desire 
should  be  encouraged  and  assisted. 


28  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

The  lands  should  be  granted  to  the  Zemindars,  Talookdars,  or 
even  to  the  Ryots,  in  many  cases,  either  in  perpetuity  or  for  life, 
■vvith  fixed  rents,  and  fixed  fines  upon  the  renewal  of  leases. 

The  collection  of  the  revenues  should  be  in  the  hands  of  the 
natives,  or,  at  all  events,  kept  distinct  from  the  administration  of 
justice.  In  short,  we  should  assume  the  supreme  government  of  the 
country,  demand  a  fixed  tribute,  and  secure  our  possession  by  main- 
taining a  sufiicient  army,  and  stationing  it  to  the  greatest  advantage 
for  the  purposes  of  internal  tranquillity  and  foreign  defence.  In 
every  other  respect,  the  people  should  be  left  as  much  as  possible  to 
their  own  laws,  customs,  and  religion. 

His  Majesty's  government  being  once  established  on  this  or  a 
similar  footing,  our  colonising  here  would  then  be  as  unnecessary 
with  respect  to  the  security  of  oiir  conquest,  as  it  would  be  danger- 
ous if  not  fatal  to  the  mother  country. 

Whether  or  no  it  be  advisable  for  Great  Britain  to  depart  so 
widely  from  the  fundamental  principles  of  her  constitution,  as  to 
aim  at  the  possession  of  a  great  foreign  dominion,  not  essential  to 
her  commerce,  nor  to  be  held  by  colonisation,  is  a  question  which 
ought  to  have  been  considered  some  years  ago.  The  proposition  I 
adhere  to  is,  that  whether  the  sovereignty  be  directly  assumed  by 
His  Majesty  or  yielded  to  him  by  the  Mogul,  the  possession  of  Ben- 
gal can  only  be  maintained  by  a  system  of  government  under 
which  the  natives  shall  be  considered  as  a  conquered  people,  and 
which  shall  have,  for  its  first  object,  the  security  of  a  conquest. 

The  following  observations,  submitted  to  Lord  North 
in  another  long  letter,  are  not  without  their  permanent 
importance,  and  may  be  conveniently  inserted  here, 
though  of  a  later  date  (Nov.  1775) : — 

Be  assured,  my  lord,  it  is  a  vain  imagination  to  suppose  that 
such  an  acquisition  as  Bengal  can  be  long  kept  and  governed  with- 
out the  intervention  of  the  natives.  Moormen  (Mahometans)  should 
be  employed  in  the  offices  of  government :  the  Gentoos  in  the  culti- 
vation of  the  land :  the  Zemindars  should  be  answerable  for  the 
internal  peace  and  good  order  of  their  respective  districts.  The 
English  power  should  stand  paramount,  and  hold  the  sword  over  the 
rest :  watching  the  administration  of  men  in  office,  contented  with  a 
gross  tribute,  and  guarding  the  country  from  being  ruined  in  detail 
by  Europeans.  This  simple  system,  so  natui-al  to  the  genius  of  the 
people,  seems  best  calculated  to  resist  an  external  force,  and  has  no 


1775]  HASTINGS  AND  BARWELL.  29 

radical  defect  within  itself.  The  difficulties  of  establishing  such  a 
system,  considering  all  circumstances,  are  doubtless  very  great — 
perhaps  not  to  be  entirely  surmounted — but  it  may  be  useful  to 
keep  the  model  in  view,  and  approach  to  it  as  near  as  we  are  able. 

To  TJord  Barrington. 

With  respect  to  the  situation  of  affairs  ia  this  country,  I  shall 
only  say  in  general  that  nothing  on  this  side  of  flat  despair  can  be 
worse.  K  there  be  a  doubt  about  the  immediate  recall  of  our  two 
colleagues,  farewell  Bengal.  Mr.  Hastings  is  determined,  at  all 
events,  to  hold  it  out  until  the  return  of  the  answer  to  my  first 
letters.  After  that  your  lordship  cannot  expect  that  any  of  us  will 
sit  in  council  with  either  of  them.  My  own  present  situation  is 
highly  embarrassing  :  I  may  lose  my  health,  my  credit  and  peace 
of  mind,  and  not  return  home  with  even  a  moderate  income. 
Again  I  commit  myself  to  your  lordship's  patronage. 

By  the  same  mail,  he  advises  the  chairman  of  the 
Court  of  Directors,  Mr.  Wheler,  if  forced  to  dismiss  one 
only  of  the  hostile  councillors,  to  recall  Barwell  instead 
of  Hastings.  '  You  had  better  keep  this  man,  who  has 
some  parts  and  considerable  experience.' 

In  this  month,  Francis  had  evidently  arrived  at  the 
conclusion,  either  that  his  position  in  the  government  was 
extremely  critical,  or  that  it  was  necessary  to  make 
his  friends  in  England  believe  so,  and  summon  them  to 
the  rescue.  To  Lord  Clive  (of  whose  decease  he  was 
of  course  unapprised)  he  writes  : — 

It  is  lucky  I  have  but  a  word  to  trouble  you  with,  since  I  have 
but  a  moment  to  say  it  in.  LooJc  sharp  after  the  fate  of  your  Jaghire. 
No  man  now  has  the  folly  to  deny  that  the  revenue  is  in  a  rapid 
state  of  decline.  ...  I  must  now  recommend  myself  in  a  par- 
ticular manner  to  your  lordship's  friendship  and  protection.  That  I 
should  continue  here,  with  influence,  is  no  less  your  lordship's 
interest  than  mine.  I  will  not  scruple  to  say  to  you  what  I  have 
never  suggested  to  any  other  person,  that  if  I  am  recalled,  or  if  an 
arrangement  should  take  place  under  which  I  cannot  exert  myself 
with  efieot,  you  may  as  weU  take  leave  of  Bengal  for  ever. 


30  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

The  next  extract  is  from  a  letter  in  whicli  Macrabie 
advises  Francis's  kinsman,  Eichard  Tilgliman  or  Tilman, 
the  barrister,  to  migrate  from  America  to  India.  Tilgh- 
man  followed  the  advice,  and  joined  Francis  at  Calcutta 
in  1776.  He  practised  at  the  Indian  bar,  apparently 
with  success. 

Calcutta,  February  26,  1775. 

In  one  of  your  last  letters  you  say  that  the  practice  of  the  law  in 
America  is  little  better  than  pettifogging  ;  that  you  are  tired  of  the 
place,  and  want  to  be  put  in  a  better  situation,  &c.  As  I  have  not 
the  smallest  doubt  upon  either  of  these  heads,  and  as  others  of 
your  friends  besides  myself  thiitk  you  was  not  designed  to  vegetate 
among  hickory  trees  and  com  cobbs,  I  engaged  to  give  you  a 
candid  account  of  this  country  and  of  the  prospects  which  it  may 
aiford  you.  If  you  were  here  at  this  instant  I  think  you  could  not 
fail  of  making  a  fortune,  and  in  your  own  line  ;  but  that  could  not 
be  foreseen,  nor  perhaps  may  the  chances  continue.  The  establish- 
ing the  Court  of  Judicature  has  drove  the  black  people  stark  mad. 
They  are  fonder  of  law  than  even  Dutchmen,  and  the  dispensers  of 
it  thrive  wonderfully.  In  forming  your  ideas  of  India  you  must  not 
keep  in  view  the  lacs  of  rupees,  which  have  grown  into  a  proverb. 
They  have  existed  here,  but  they  are  gone.  The  soil  remains,  and 
some  of  the  people  ;  but,  without  a  proper  governmient,  Bengal 
cannot  recover  to  a  state  of  health  and  wealth.  It  is  at  that  stage 
of  consumption  which  time  and  the  most  judicious  application  of 
medicine  alone  will  cure.  The  dissensions  which  have  prevailed 
here  during  the  last  four  months,  with  their  several  causes,  will 
have  fully  appeared  in  the  political  world  before  this  comes  to  your 
hands.  Ton  will  meet  with  characters,  opinions  and  facts  which  will 
amaze  you.  Our  friends  have  been  active,  and — if  there's  a  power 
above  us  who  delights  in  virtue,  justice  and  benevolence — they 
must  be  successful.  Madness  may  recall  them.  Every  principle  of 
wise  policy  will  concur  in  fixing  them  here,  and  enlarging  their 
power.     In  the  latter  case,  F.  must  be  eminent. 

Francis  to  Lord  North. 

February  28,  1776. 

Kin  this,  or  any  other  instance,  the  Governor- General's  conduct,  or 
the  motives  I  attribute  to  him,  should  appear  upon  examination  to 
imply  a  weakness  and  want  of  judgment  in  him  that  exceed  proba- 


1775]  HASTINGS  AND  BARWELL.  31 

bility,  I  can  only  say,  witk  an  appeal  to  your  lordsHp's  future 
observation,  ttat,  without  denying  him  some  little  talents  of  the 
third  or  fourth  order,  we  were  as  much  deceived  with  regard  to  his 
abihties  and  judgment  as  to  his  other  qualifications.  I  look  back 
to  my  own  prepossessions  in  his  favour  as  to  a  sort  of  delirium 
from  which  he  himself  has  recovered  me. 

To  the  same. 

March  24. 

It  is  settled  that  Mr.  Barwell  shall  marry  Miss  Clavering.     After 

all  that  this  gentleman  has  said  and  done ;  after  all  that  we  have 

said  of  him ;  after  the  censures  of  hiia  to  which  General  Claverino- 

o 

has  signed  his  name,  and  branded  as  he  is  in  this  country  by  the 
utter  ruin  of  a  province,  by  enormous  peculation  of  every  sort,  and 
by  a  personal  depravity  of  character  of  which  he  alone  perhaps 
furnishes  an  example,  I  cannot  but  foresee  the  ruin  or  decline  of 
that  cause  in  which  we  have  gone  such  lengths. 

To  Godfrey  he  writes  respecting  his  own  prospects 
(March  1775)  :— 

I  relinquish  my  family  and  friends,  and  I  pass  my  life  in  one 
eternal  combat  with  villany,  folly,  and  prostitution  of  every  species. 
If  I  carry  home  '25,000L  by  the  severest  parsimony  of  five  years,  it 
wiU  be  the  utmost  I  can  accomplish.  I  would  now  gladly  accept 
two-thirds  of  the  money,  if  I  could  be  up  to  the  neck  in  the 
Thames. 

To  the  same  intimate  correspondent  he  sends  the  fol- 
lowing agreeable  description  of  Barwell : — 

March  20,  1775. 
....  Mr.  Barwell  in  council  supports  the  Governor,  but  abroad 
is  endeavouring  to  make  a  bank  apart,  in  order  to  screen  his  own 
iniquities.     He  is  to  marry  Miss  Clavering ;  '  a  damnable  match, 


'  This  formidable  conjunction  of  the  planets  is  frequently  anticipated  by 
Francis  in  his  correspondence  with  much  alarm.  It  did  not,  however,  take 
place.  Barwell  married  a  Miss  Sanderson,  the  '  toast '  of  Calcutta  at  the 
time,  and  a  distiuguished  coquette,  if  the  following  anecdote  in  Mr.  Grand's 
reminiscences  (to  be  again  mentioned)  can  be  depended  upon  : — 

*  We  met  sixteen  in  her  livery,  one  public  ball  evening,  viz.,  a  pea  green 


32  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

■whicli  can  produce  nothing  but  misery  and  dishonour  to  the  lady 
and  her  family,  and  disappointment  to  himself.  He  is  cunning, 
cruel,  rapacious,  tyrannical  and  profligate  beyond  all  our  European 
ideas  of  those  qualities . 

In  the  same  month,  Macrabie  writes  : — 

Francis  enjoys  a  vast  flow  of  spirits,  and  a  share  of  health  which 
is  never  hurt,  except  by  the  great  and  constant  exercise  of  his 
faculties.  The  Triumvirate  carry  everything  before  them,  but  with 
a  high  hand.  The  enemy  dispute  every  inch,  and  flounce  and 
struggle  with  wonderful  violence,  but  with  a  degree  of  efirontery 
which  your  cold  climate  could  not  inspire  even  such  men  with.  In 
the  midst  of  this  bustle,  it  has  pleased  Heaven  to  make  me,  for  my 
ofiences,  high  sherifiF  of  Calcutta.  Bating  the  honour,  it  is,  under 
favour,  the  most  cursed  office  that  ever  was  held  by  a  sinner.  The 
only  comfort  I  enjoy  in  it  is  the  reflection  that  somebody  who  pos- 
sessed it  some  time  ago  made  above  3,000L  a  year  by  it.  I  am  almost 
broken-hearted,  and  literally  out  of  pocket.^  My  deputy  insists 
that  we  shall  have  statues  erected  to  our  honour.  I  pray  Heaven  I 
keep  clear  of  hanging — myself ! 

'  The  death  of  the  Vizier  '  (Sujah-ad-Dowlah),  writes 
Mr.  Thornton  (in  February  1775),  'gave  occasion  to 
a  quarrel  of  greater  dignity  and  importance.^  The 
majority  in  the  council  chose  to  consider  all  the  obliga- 
tions by  which  the  British  government  was  connected 
with  the  late  Vizier  as  merely  personal,  consequently 
as  terminated  by  the  death  of  the  party  by  whom  they 
were  contracted.  And  they  regarded  that  event  as 
affording  an  opportunity  of  making  a  better  bargain 
with  the  Vizier's  successor.  Mr.  Bristow  was  appointed 
resident  at  the  Court  of  Oude,  and   by  him   a   treaty 

French  frock,  trimmed  with  rich  silk,  and  chained  lace  with  spangles;  when 
each  of  us,  to  whom  the  secret  of  her  intended  dress  had  been  communicated, 
buoyed  himself  up  with  the  hope  of  being  the  happy  individual.' 

'  The  emoluments,  however,  proved  hy  no  means  contemptible.  Macra- 
bie speaks  of  reahzing  250/.  in  one  case  as  percentage  on  the  public  sale  of 
a  ship.  ^ 

'  '  History  of  India,'  c.  vi. 


1775]  CLAVERING  FIGHTS  BAEWELL.  S3 

was  concluded  by  which  the  new  Soubahdar  agreed 
to  surrender  to  the  British  government  Benares  and 
certain  districts.  .  .  .  The  three  councillors  were  greatly- 
proud  of  the  achievement  of  this  treaty.'  '  The  measure,' 
say  they,  '  is  strictly  and  exclusively  ours ;  the  original 
plan  was  opposed  in  every  step  by  the  Governor-General 
and  Mr.  Barwell.  Hastings  recorded  his  conviction  that 
it  was  not  honourable  to  extort  from  the  prince 
concessions  inconsistent  with  our  former  treaties,  to 
which  the  necessity  of  his  situation  alone  obhged  him, 
however  unwilling,  to  submit ;  and  the  judgment  of 
posterity  must  confirm  the  sentence.  .  .  .  Such  a  cir- 
cumstance,' he  adds,  '  pours  a  stream  of  light  upon  their 
pertinacious  opposition  to  every  act  of  the  Governor,  and 
renders  it  impossible  for  the  most  extended  charity  to 
attribute  it  to  any  pure  or  honourable  motive.' 

It  seems  more  just  to  attribute  whatever  there  was 
open  to  censure  in  this  proceeding,  in  which  the  Trium- 
virate could  have  had  no  '  impure  '  or  '  dishonourable ' 
motive  in  the  ordinary  sense  of  those  words,  to  two 
causes :  the  difficulty  which  always  besets  vehement  re- 
formers, when  in  ofiice,  of  refraining  to  foUow  in  the  same 
inevitable  groove  with  those  whom  they  have  censured — 
the  blindness  which  impels  vehement  enemies  to  find 
matter  for  blame  in  the  policy  of  a  predecessor,  which 
they  are  unable  to  depart  from  without  committing  stUl 
greater  errors. 

About  this  time  (in  April  1775)  the  pugnacious  Gene- 
ral Clavering  quarrelled  with,  and  called  out,  Barwell, 
who,  all  civilian  as  he  was,  had  no  alternative  but  to  go 
to  the  field.  Francis  gives  in  one  of  his  memorandums 
a  sarcastic  account  of  the  proceeding. 

Tte  General  challenged  Barwell,  who  desired  a  respite  of  a  few 
days  to  make  his   will.      They  met   on   the   Sunday  following. 
VOL.  II.  D 


34  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

Harwell  received  one  fire  and  asked  pardon.  I  could  easily  collect, 
from  Clavering's  account  of  tlie  affair,  tliat  Harwell  behaved  very 
indifferently  in  the  field.  This  circumstance  has  since  been  con- 
firmed to  me  by  old  Fowke.  He  had  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  his 
good  fortune.  The  wonder  is  how  the  general,  who  is  perfectly 
correct  in  all  the  ceremonies  of  fighting,  happened  to  miss  him. 
Clavering  was  highly  pleased  with  himself  on  this  occasion,  and 
showed  me  his  correspondence  with  Harwell  with  many  tokens  of 
self-approbation.     It  has  been  since  printed. 

But  the  disputes  now  assumed  a  darker  character. 
Heavy  charges  against  Hastings'  personal  integrity  were 
received  and  debated  in  council.  Hastings  met  them,  for 
the  most  part,  with  a  refusal  to  submit  to  the  council's 
judgment,  which  those  who  have  absolved  him  have 
generally  regarded  as  arising  from  proper  self-respect  or  at 
worst  from  haughtiness ;  those  who  have  condemned  him, 
from  conscious  guilt.  The  principal  accusations  alleged 
against  him  were  that  regarding  the  Eanee  of  Burdwar  ; 
that  of  a  corrupt  participation  of  the  profits  of  the  Foojdar 
of  Hooghly ;  and,  lastly,  that  arising  out  of  the  appoint- 
ment of  the  native  lady  styled  Munny  Begum  to  the 
guardianship  of  the  infant  Nabob  of  Bengal :  as  to  which 
Mr.  Thornton — no  hostile  judge — says,  'Opinions  may 
differ  as  to  the  extent  of  Hastings'  culpability,  but  he 
must  be  a  warm  partisan  indeed  who  will  go  the  length 
of  declaring  that  the  Governor-General's  hands  were  alto- 
gether clean.' 

But  these  charges  were  first  preferred,  in  part,  by  '  the 
acute  and  profligate  Nuncomar.'  Into  the  dark  history  of 
this  unhappy  man's  crimes  and  of  his  suffering,  not  for 
those  crimes,  but  because  he  charged  others  with  crime— 

Happy  for  him,  if  he  had  borne  to  see 

His  coimtry  beggared  of  the  last  rupee- 
it  would  be  impossible  to  enter  within  the  scope  of  a 
work  intended  to  develop  only  the  personal  character  of 


1775]  EXECUTION  OF  NUNCOMAR.  35 

Francis  ;  nor  is  it  necessary  to  do  more  than  to  indicate 
the  part — not  at  first  sight  a  very  intelUgible  one — which 
Francis  personally  played  in  relation  to  it.  He  had  him- 
self read,  in  council,  Nuncomar's  paper  of  charges  against 
Hastings.  He  had  (with  his  two  colleagues)  voted  those 
charges  true  :  and  that  Hastings  had  corruptly  received 
thirty  or  forty  thousand  pounds.  Yet  when  Hastings, 
through  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  the  chief  justice,  took  Nun- 
comar's  life  by  way  of  reply,  Francis  seems  to  have  been 
paralysed  by  their  determination.  This  judicial  murder 
— for  such  it  undoubtedly  was — does  not  appear  noted 
in  his  correspondence  with  any  of  that  bitter  indignation 
which  he  was  accustomed  to  lavish  on  far  less  flagrant 
subjects.  He  speaks  of  it  with  a  kind  of  cautious  reti- 
cence, quite  analogous  to  the  circumstances  of  his  con- 
duct reported  fi-om  other  sources.  '  Messages  were  con- 
tinually sent  to  Nuncomar  in  prison  '  (says  Elijah  Impey, 
in  his  memoir  of  his  father),  by  General  Clavering  and 
Colonel  Monson,  Francis  being  too  cunning  to  commit 
himself  in  this  way.'  And  when  a  petition  '  of  the  late 
Maharajah '  found  its  way  into  council  after  his  death,  it 
was  Francis  who  moved  that  it  should  be  burnt  by  the 
common  hangman,  on  account  of  the  reflections  which  it 
contained  on  the  judges  of  the  Supreme  Court.  Did 
Francis  know  a  little  too  much  about  Nuncomar  to  take 
his  part  ?  or  was  he  actually  afraid  for  himself,  and 
shrank  before  the  desperate  resolution  of  Hastings,  backed 
by  the  authority  of  Impey  and  by  the  European  opinion 
of  Calcutta  ?  At  all  events,  the  following  is  the  measured, 
though  significant,  language  in  which  he  writes  to  the 
distinguished  admiral.  Sir  Edward  Hughes,  at  Madras,  of 
an  event  which  was  destined  to  occupy  so  prominent  a 
place  afterwards  in  the  roll  of  accusations,  backed  and 

D   2 


86  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

urged  on  by  himself  in  Parliament,  against  the  Governor- 
General  and  the  Judge  : — 

Francis  to  Sir  Edward  Hughes,  at  Madras. 

August  7,  1775. 
The  deatli  of  Rajali  ISTundcomar  -will  probably  surprise  you.  He  was 
found  guilty  of  a  forgery  committed  some  seven  or  eight  years  ago  : 
condemned,  and  executed  on  Saturday  last.  My  brother-in-law,  in 
virtue  of  his  office,  was  obliged  to  attend  him.  Through  every  part 
of  the  ceremony  he  behaved  himself  with  the  utmost  dignity  and 
composure,  and  met  his  fate  with  an  appearance  of  resolution  that 
approached  to  indifference.  Strange  judgments,  I  fancy,  will  be 
formed  of  this  event  in  England.  Whether  he  was  guilty  or  not  of 
the  crime  laid  to  his  charge,  I  believe  no  man  here  has  a  doubt 
that,  if  he  had  never  stood  forth  iu  politics,  his  other  offences  would 
not  have  hurt  him.  This  is  a  delicate  subject,  and  rather  open  to 
speculation  than  discussion. 

Long  afterwards,  in  1788  (February  26),  when  Francis 
was  urging  in  Parliament  the  charge  of  guilt  in  the  matter 
of  Nuncomar  against  Impey,  he  was  reminded  of  his  own 
act  in  ordering  the  obnoxious  petition  to  be  burnt.  He 
defended  himself  as  well  as  he  could ;  but  he  added 
words  which  showed  plainly  enough  the  real  motive  which 
prevailed  in  his  mind.  He  said  he  '  feared  for  Clavering's 
safety,  not  knowing  to  what  length  those  judges  who 
had  already  dipped  their  hands  in  blood  to  answer  a 
political  purpose,  might  proceed  on  the  same  principle.'  ^ 
This  was  no  vague  terror.  The  judicial  body  was  abso- 
lutely at  the  service  of  Hastings.  The  military  force 
(civilian  as  he  was)  remained,  as  Macaulay  has  remarked, 
always  devoted  to  him.  His  own  temper  was  tried  to 
the  utmost ;  and  he  was  not  famous  for  uniform  control 
over  it.  Things  were  then  done  in  the  East,  at  six 
months'  distance  from  London,  for  which  the  settled  state 

1  This  speech  formed  the  materials  of  a  pamphlet  supposed  to  be  by 
Francis,  to  which  Sir  E.  Impey  replied.— See  his  remarks  ou  this  passage  in 
his  son's  memoir,  p.  829. 


1775]  PETITION  OF  NUNCOMAR.  37 

of  matters  in  England  furnished  no  precedent  or  justifica- 
tion. It  was  in  this  same  year  (1776)  that  Lord  Pigott, 
Governor  of  Madras,  was  seized  and  imprisoned  by  his 
own  subordinates,  and  died  in  confinement.  There  can 
be  little  doubt,  therefore,  that  the  awe  with  which  this 
act  of  high-handed  power,  according  to  Macaulay,  struck 

the  natives  of  India,  was  not  confined  to  them  alone : 

'  From  that  moment  the  conviction  of  every  native  was 
that  it  was  safer  to  take  the  part  of  Hastings  in  a  minority 
than  that  of  Francis  in  a  majority,  and  that  he  who  was 
so  venturous  as  to  join  in  running  down  the  Governor- 
General,  might  chance,  in  the  phrase  of  the  Eastern  poet, 
to  find  a  tiger  while  beating  the  jungle  for  a  deer.' 

The  following  touching  and  not  undignified  letter  is 
copied  in  Francis's  letter  book  as  addressed  to  him  by  the 
Eajah  from  prison,  and  appears,  even  from  its  imperfec- 
tions, to  be  genuine  : — 

Nuncomar  to  Francis. 

July  31,  1775. 
Most  Worshipfull  Sir, — In  the  perilous  and  unhappy  circumstance 
of  Hfe  I  am  now  reduced  at  present,  I  doubt  not  but  what  jou  are 
acquainted  with,  I  am  now  thinking  that  I  have  but  a  short  time  to 
Eve,  for  among  the  English  gentry,  Armenians,  Moores  and  Gentoos, 
few  there  is  who  is  not  against  me,  but  those  that  are  not  for  me  is 
continually  devising  all  the  mischief  they  can  imagine  against  me, 
the  reason  whereof  it  is  best  known  to  your  Worship,  for  my  real 
intention  from  the  begining  tended  that  the  revenues  of  the 
country  might  have  been  brought  into  the  Honble.  Company's 
treasury  without  embezzlement,  for  in  former  times  when  I  had  the 
management  of  the  business,  I  took  great  care  that  no  part  of  the 
revenues  were  pilfered— and  as  you  and  the  other  two  gentlemen  are 
sent  out  from  England  with  intent  to  promote  the  interest  of  the 
Company,  the  good  of  the  country  and  lastly  to  spread  the  Fame  and 
Power  of  his  Brittish  Majesty,  and  it  was  also  my  earnest  wish's  to 
serve  under  you,  and  to  have  been  an  instrument  towards  this 
happiness  to  the  natives.  But  alass  my  best  endeavours  iu  prosecut- 
ing the  salutary  means,  have  only  tended  to  entrap  my  life  in  this 


38  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

cause,  of  wliicli  I  have  very  little  hopes  of  saving  it,  -unless  your 
"Worship  -will  be  graciously  pleased  to  interpose  in  my  behalf  with 
the  justices,  and  all  my  hopes  under  God  Almighty  is  in  you,  there- 
fore most  humbly  entreat  in  the  name  of  God  you  will  be  pleased  to 
intercede  for  me  and  procure  a  respite  till  His  Most  Gracious 
Majesty's  pleasure  is  known. 

But  in  the  interim  I  do  most  earnestly  entreat  the  favour  you 
will  be  pleased  to  take  my  son  Rajah  Groodass  Bhadoor  who  is 
devan  to  the  present  Nabob  of  Muredabad  under  your  special 
favour  and  protection,  that  he  may  not  be  ensnared  by  the  malice  of 
my  enemys,  this  as  well  as  the  means  of  respiting  me  till  the  king 
His  most  Gracious  Majesty's  mercy  and  forgiveness  is  procured 
through  your  means.  I  shall  to  the  end  of  my  life  be  entirely 
devoted  to  render  yon  all  the  service  to  the  extent  of  my  power  and 
abilitys, — and  as  I  entirely  rely  on  your  Worships  endeavour  to  do  me 
all  the  good  you  can,  I  shall  not  according  to  the  opinion  of  the 
Hindoos,  accuse  you  in  the  day  of  judgement  of  neglecting  to 
assist  me  in  the  extremity  I  am  now  in. 

I  must  also  entreat  your  Worship  that  you  will  be  favourably 
pleased  to  write  to  me  how  far  you  have  been  able  to  prevail  with 
the  justices  on  my  behalf. 

Most  worshipful!  sir  your  Worships  most  obedient  humble  servant. 

[signed]         Nundcoomab. 
A  translate  from  the  Bengal  original. 

After  the  death  of  Nuncomar,  and  the  cessation,  imme- 
diately on  that  event,  of  the  attacks  on  the  Governor-Ge- 
neral's integrity  through  the  means  of  native  testimony, 
against  which  it  gave  so  pregnant  a  warning,  a  compara- 
tive lull  ensued  in  the  warfare  of  the  Bengal  Council 
Board.  This  opportunity  may  be  taken  for  the  insertion 
of  a  few  details  from  Macrabie's  journal,  showing  the 
manner  in  which  Calcutta  hfe,  in  the  highest  quarters, 
was  then  carried  on. 

This  diary  begins  on  September  1,  1775,  and  professes 
to  give,  in  more  or  less  detail,  the  daily  occurrences  of  the 
hfe  of  Francis  and  his  '  tail.'  A  few  extracts  from  it^ 
taken  at  different  periods— may  serve  to  give  a  sufficient 
notion  of  its  contents  :  generally  speaking,  descriptive  of 


1775]  LIFE  AT  CALCUTTA,  1775.  39 

a  regular  life  of  business,   and   monotonous   round  of 
gaieties  in  the  same  society. 

'■September  1,  1775. — In  the  evening,  played  cards  at 
Lady  Anne  Monson's  :  three  whist  tables  and  two  at 
chess.  Quadrille  is  little  in  vogue  here.  Lady  Anne  is 
a  very  superior  whist  player :  Mr.  Francis  generally 
fortunate. 

'  September  15. — This  bUe  is  the  devil.  Mr.  Francis 
has  another  attack  of  it,  and  has  headache  and  fever.  I 
will  make  him  dine  quietly  at  home,  though  we  are  in- 
vited to  a  card  and  supper  party.  He  says  he  cannot  be 
sick,  with  any  degree  of  comfort,  unless  his  dear  wife  is 
at  hand. 

'  November  1. — Being  Wednesday,  it  may  not  be  amiss 
for  me  to  look  at  my  card  account,  and  see  how  the 
reckoning  stands  between  me  and  the  world.  I  have 
been  losing  all  this  last  month.  Let  me  see.  Pretty  even. 
I  am  not  ten  pounds  gainer  or  loser  upon  that  account 
since  I  left  England.  But  that  is  not  right.  I  want 
money ;  I  begin  to  love  money ;  and  if  I  can  get  it 
fairly,  I  will  have  money. 

'■November  3, — We  have  been  in  the  heart  of  the 
enemy's  camp  (a  party  at  the  Claverings).  The  whole 
house  of  Barwell,  with  Sir  Impey  and  lady.  We  wanted 
only  the  Governor  to  make  it  complete.  Entre  nous,  the 
evening  was  stupid  enough,  and  the  supper  detestable  ; 
great  joints  of  roasted  goat,  with  endless  dishes  of  cold 
fish.  With  respect  to  conversation,  we  have  had  three 
or  four  songs  screeched  to  unknown  tunes ;  the  ladies  re- 
galed with  cherry  brandy ;  and  we  pelted  one  another 
with  bread  pills,  k  la  mode  de  Bengal. 

'i^e^TOar-y  4,  1776.— Expedition  to  Barrasut.  Drove 
to  Bum  Bum,  which  was  in  former  days  a  retreat  of  Lord 
Olive's.     There  is  a  degree  of  singularity  about  the  place 


40  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

whicL.  gives  it  a  merit,  at  least  with  an  odd  man.  It  is 
monastic.  The  country  about  it  is  dreary ;  but  the  noble 
forest  trees,  and  lofty  terraces  upon  the  spot,  give  it  a 
noble  air.  It  has  at  least  two  desirable  qualities  for 
this  country,  being  both  retired  and  cool. 

'  February  5. — This  day  passed  in  much  the  same  manner 
as  the  former,  and  at  the  close  of  it,  and  of  our  accounts, 
we  found  that  the  house  of  Francis  and  Company  were 
winners  several  hundred  pounds.  Everything,  my  good 
friends,  in  this  country  is  upon  an  enlarged  scale,  and 
the  superior  skill  and  attention  of  Mr.  F.  will  make  him 
successful  both  in  business  and  sport. 

'  February  18. — Lady  Anne  Monson  is  no  more.  After 
laying  speechless  through  the  day,  she  departed  last  night 
about  ten.  The  loss  of  such  a  woman  is  generally  felt  by 
the  whole  settlement ;  but  we,  who  had  the  honour  and 
the  pleasure  of  her  intimacy,  are  deprived  of  a  comfort 
which  we  shall  long  regret. 

'■February  21. — We  have  at  last  engaged  a  capital 
house,  the  best  in  town ;  but  such  a  rent !  100/.  a  month 
is  enormous.  Neighbour  Collings  and  I  must  contribute 
towards  it. 

'  March  2. — Mr.  Barwell  has  lost  again,  and  we  have  all 
won.  I  told  you  of  his  heavy  losses  at  Barrasut.  We 
all  shared  in  the  spoil,  nor  has  any  of  this  house  dechned 
giving  him  his  revenge.  Justice  Lemaistre,  who  had  be- 
fore been  a  very  considerable  loser,  having  recovered  his 
sufferings  at  the  expense  of  Mr.  Barwell,  has  tied  up,  as 
it  is  called,  and  plays  no  more.  Colonel  Leshe  does  the 
same.  This  a  little  vexes  Mr.  Barwell,  who  is  fond  of 
play,  and  will  play  for  anything.     We  still  go  on.' 

The  dispensation  of  patronage  was  one  of  Francis's 
chief  cares  and  annoyances,  as  it  is  of  all  men  similarly 
circumstanced.     Its  details,  and  the  disappointments  with 


1775]  INDIAN  PATRONAGE,  41 

which  he  was  met  in  his  endeavours  to  serve  individuals, 
fretted  his  irritable  nature.  He  was  also  continually 
apprehensive  of  offending  those  in  England,  on  whose 
support  he  relied,  by  not  showing  sufficient  zeal  in  the 
promotion  of  their  wishes.  He  fancied  that  he  had  given 
mortal  offence  to  Lord  Bute  by  insufficient  attention  to 
his  son,  Captain  Stuart,  to  whom  Hastings  (as  his  letters 
show)  paid  judicious  court.  He  imagined  that  Lord 
North  had  become  his  enemy  by  reason  of  similar  neglect. 
Certainly  the  minister  was  at  times  a  little  peremptory  in 
his  mandates  on  this  head,  as  the  following  intimation 
from  his  private  secretary,  in  behalf  of  the  son  of  a  per- 
sonage of  some  importance  in  the  royal  household,  Peter 
Pindar's  '  Billy  Eamus,'  will  show.  It  may  amuse  the 
reader  to  be  reminded  that,  according  to  a  story  in  Bar- 
ker's 'Letters  on  Junius'  (p.  190),  this  Mr.  Eamus  was 
employed  by  the  court  to  pump  Woodfall  (through 
Garrick)  about  the  authorship  of '  Junius.' 

Grey  Gooper  to  Francis. 

April  5,  1776. 

I  have  received  a  letter  this  morning  from  Mr.  Nicholas  Ramus, 
first  page  to  His  Majesty,  in  which  he  acquaints  me  that  a  letter 
has  come  to  his  hand,  from  his  son  Mr.  Henry  Ramus,  dated 
August  6,  in  which  he  expresses  great  mortification  that  he  had 
not  then  been  so  fortunate  as  to  obtain  any  mark  of  the  favour  and 
protection  of  the  Governor  and  Council  of  Bengal.  It  consists  with 
my  knowledge  that  Mr.  Henry  Ramus  carried  out  with  him  recom- 
mendations from  the  highest  and  most  respectable  authority 

I  have  not  ventured  to  take  this  liberty  with  any  other  of  the 
council  except  yourself,  but  to  you  I  do  it  most  earnestly.^ 

On  one  occasion  his  discontent  finds  vent  in  a  sarcasm 
not  unworthy  of  Junius.     A  Mr.  Fraser  brings  a  letter 

'  Sir  Grey  Cooper  was  a  barrister,  who  took  early  in  life  the  side, of  the 
Rockingham  party  as  a  political  pamphleteer.  He  became  secretary  to 
the  Treasury,  and  (after  the  dissolution  of  the  Rockingham  administration) 
private  secretary  to  Lord  North  untU  1782. 


42  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

of  introduction  from  Strachey  to  Francis.     His  answer 
(July  11,  1776):— 

My  friends  in  England  are  very  good  to  me.  They  give  me  as 
many  opportunities  as  I  can  desire,  and  more  than.  I  can  avail 
myself  of,  of  serving  persons  of  merit  in  this  country ;  and  they  leave 
me  the  credit  of  it,  clear  of  any  return  in  England ! 

The  following  letter  from  the  second  Lord  Clive,  a 
student  at  Geneva,  received  by  Prancis  early  in  1776, 
may  find  a  place  here  : — 

Lord  Olive  (the  second)  to  Francis. 

Geneva,  October  31,  1775. 
Sir, — I  am  sorry  to  hear  you  found  the  Company's  affairs  on  your 
arrival  in  India  in  so  embarrassed  a  situation,  but  most  sincerely 
hope  they  will  soon  be  restored  to  order  and  opulence  by  the  activity, 
firmness  and  integrity  of  yourself  and  your  associates,  and  that  the 
measures  you  adopt  in  the  pursuit  of  objects  so  highly  important  to 
the  Company  and  nation,  will  m.eet  with  every  support  from  England. 
I  very  much  regret  that  my  want  of  knowledge  and  experience  in 
business  deprive  me  at  present  of  the  satisfaction  I  should  feel  in 
giving  the  support  I  wish  to  give  (that  my  father,  had  he  hved, 
would  have  given)  to  whatever  is  for  the  advantage  of  the  Company. 
In  the  meantime,  it  remains  for  me  to  be  most  thankful  to  those 
who  favour  me  with  information  on  subjects  that  interest  mj  country, 
and  particularly  on  such  as  relate  to  India.  May  I  remind  you  of 
the  message,  so  flattering  for  me,  with  which  you  charged  Lady 
Clive  a  few  days  before  your  departure  from  England,  desiring 
my  future  friendship  ?  May  I  venture,  on  so  shght  a  foundation,  to 
request  the  continuance  of  the  friendly  correspondence  you  had 
commenced  with  my  father  ?  Perhaps  such  a  request,  from  a 
person  you  never  saw,  may  appear  unreasonable  ;  I  do  not  absolutely 
make  it,  whatever  may  be  my  wishes,  but  confine  myself  to 
assuring  you  that  if  you  should  honour  me  with  any  information 
on  Indian  affairs,  I  shall  regard  it  as  a  very  particular  favour, 
and  that  wherever  confidence  is  reposed  strict  secrecy  wiU  be 
adhered  to. 

I  have  just  heard  from  England  that  bills  to  the  amount  of 
26,000L  and  upwards  have  been  received.  As  the  trustees  have 
written  to  you  on  the  subject  of  remittances,  I  only  join  with  them  in 
requesting  you  to  continue  in  the  management  thereof,  and  in  pre- 


1776J  FRANCIS  ON  CLAVERING.  43 

senting  you  with  my  warmest  thanks  for  the  trouble  you  have 
aheady  taken. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  great  esteem,  Sir, 

Tour  most  obedient  humble  servant, 

Olive. 

It  will  be  seen  by  tlie  next  letter  to  D'Oyly  that  a  new- 
fear  was  now  agitating  the  mind  of  Francis.  Confident 
that  Hastings  must  ere  long  be  recalled,  he  already  anti- 
cipated the  succession  of  Clavering,  the  King's  and  Lord 
North's  favourite,  to  the  Governor-Generalship.  He  had, 
by  this  time,  quarrelled  irreconcilably  with  the  general, 
although  the  ground  of  their  differences — necessary  as 
they  were  to  one  another — does  not  appear.  And  he  set 
himself,  after  his  usual  fashion,  to  employ  such  means  as 
he  thought  he  could  command  in  England,  to  prevent  the 
catastrophe  which  must  at  once  place  him  at  the  mercy 
of  an  enemy,  and  destroy  his  own  chance  of  succeeding 
Hastings. 

Francis  to  D'Oyly ^ 

March  1,  1776. 

When  you  have  considered  the  enclosed  letter,  I  am  sure  you 
will  enter  cordially  into  the  misery  of  my  present  situation,  and 
the  gloomy  prospect  before  me.  The  letters  and  papers  annexed 
are  ostensible  only  for  the  purpose  of  self-defence,  and  not  to 
attack  or  injure  General  Clavering  in  any  shape.  What  am  I  to 
expect  hereafter,  when  the  highest  power  of  the  government  shall 
devolve  on  him,  if  now,  when  my  services  are  essential  to  his  sup- 
port, and  to  the  cause  we  are  engaged  in,  the  first  difference  of 
opinion  weighs  down  at  once  all  memory  of  what  he  owes  me,  as 
well  as  every  immediate  consideration  of  prudence  and  decorum  ? 
Acting  with  such  a  man,  I  cannot  be  safe  a  moment  unless  by  a 
blind  implicit  submission  to  his  caprices.  .  .  .  Our  late  proceedings 
will  enable  you  to  judge  how  far  General  Olavering  is  fit  to  take  this, 

or  any,  lead  in  the  conduct  of  great  afiairs It  will,  I  conceive, 

be  proper  that  my  Lord  North  should  be  possessed  of  the  facts, 
that  his  mind  may  be  guarded  against  false  impressions.  .  .  .    K 


'  D'Oyly  was  under-seoretary  in  the  American  department  from  1776  to 
1778,  after  which  he  left  public  life. 


44  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

General  Clavering  be  Governor,  I  shall  endeavour  to  arm  myself 
vjritb.  patience,  until  I  can  honourably  take  my  leave  of  him  for  ever. 
Till  then  I  must  be  content  to  pull  the  devil  by  the  tail. 

According  to  information  received  by  Francis  from 
Bristow  in  England,  Clavering  had  written  to  Lord  Xorth 
asking  for  Francis's  recall. 

At  this  period  (April  1776)  Francis  thought  proper  to 
commit  to  writing  a  private  memorandum  of  the  proceed- 
ings of  himself  and  his  colleagues  since  their  arrival  in 
India.  It  was  preserved  among  his  papers.  I  do  not 
observe  any  evidence  of  its  having  been  ever  communi- 
cated to  anyone.  It  is  provokingly  mutilated  in  the  most 
critical  portions,  like  the  '  fragment  of  autobiography  '  of 
which  it  was,  probably,  intended  as  a  continuation.  Al- 
though its  insertion  must  occasion  some  inevitable  repeti- 
tion, it  is  too  important  a  document  for  a  biographer  of 
Francis  to  omit. 

'  An  exact  detail  of  every  pubhc  transaction  from  the 
period  of  our  arrival  in  Bengal,  is  preserved  in  the 
joint  representations  sent  home  by  General  Clavering, 
Colonel  Monson  and  myself  to  the  Court  of  Directors, 
or  in  my  private  letters  to  Lord  North  and  Mr.  D'Oyly. 
Some  facts,  however,  of  a  nature  too  particular  to  be  trusted 
to  letters,  remain  to  be  stated.  They  will  explain  the 
real  views  and  characters  of  the  men  with  or  against 
whom  I  have  acted,  and  account  for  some  extraor- 
dinary appearances  and  events,  the  true  origin  of  which 
is  not  understood  by  the  public,  or  which  stand  wholly 
unaccounted  for.  The  subject  is  curious  and  interesting, 
and,  if  properly  treated,  would  throw  new  lights  upon 
the  human  character.  In  the  breast  of  a  European, 
the  general  operation  of  the  passions  is  direct.  Their 
quality,  and  the  means  taken  to  gratify  them,  are  nearly 
the  same  in  every  individual,  with  no  other  distinction 


1776]  PKIVATE  MEMORANDUM.  45 

but  that  of  degree.  On  the  contrary,  a  native  of  Bengal 
appears  to  have  no  passions,  nor  in  fact  have  they  any 
but  avarice  and  ambition.  The  former  predominates 
considerably,  and  uses  the  latter  merely  as  an  instru- 
ment. Patience,  submission,  an  inactive  perseverance, 
and  an  utter  ignorance  or  indiiFerence  about  good  or  evil, 
rather  than  a  positive  contempt  of  all  principle,  sense  of 
honour  and  shame,  are  the  arms  vdth  which  they  fight, 
and  scarce  ever  fail  to  carry  their  purpose.  I  have 
been  told  that,  among  the  nations  of  Upper  India,  the 
baseness  of  a  Bengalee  is  proverbial.  Even  the  name 
is  a  reproach.  A  national  character  of  indiscriminate 
depravity  is,  I  know,  equally  difficult  to  be  proved,  and 
likely  to  be  exaggerated.  The  truth  of  it  depends  on 
facts,  and  must  be  estabhshed  by  evidence.  In  the 
present  case,  my  own  experience  and  observation  reach 
no  further  than  Calcutta.  I  have  been  chiefly  con- 
versant with  Banyans  or  men  in  office,  and  cannot  form 
a  conception  of  more  refined  depravity.  The  united  testi- 
mony of  Moguls  and  Europeans  is  equally  unfavourable 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  rest  of  the  provinces.  The 
fact,  however,  with  respect  to  the  Bengalees,  is  of  less 
importance  to  my  present  purpose  than  another  which 
springs  from  it.  Men  suddenly  raised  to  arbitrary  power 
from  low  stations  are  seldom  improved  by  it.  Besides 
this,  Europeans,  by  long  residence  in  Bengal,  contract 
the  character  of  the  country,  and,  without  the  insignia 
of  black  faces  and  white  turbans,  are  as  completely 
Banyans  as  the  people  who  serve  them.  The  only 
difference  is  that  to  the  vices  of  slaves,  contracted  by  inter- 
course, they  add  those  of  tyrants,  contracted  by  command. 
There  are  no  such  men  in  Europe,  for  example,  as  Hastings, 
George  Vansittart,  and  Barwell.  John  Johnstone  was 
avarice  personified,  but  this  is  not  a  character  peculiar 


46  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

to  any  country.  John  Graham,  I  am  told,  had  a  mixture 
of   the   higher   passions,   which    he   could   not    always 

command.      On  the  other rapacious,  and  having 

no  mercantile  knowledge  or  application,  lost  in  trade 
or  in  wild  projects  a  considerable  part  of  what  he  had 
acquired  by  plunder.  He  was  excluded  from  the  commis- 
sion of  supervisor,  because,  as  Luke  Scrafton  observed, 
there  were  too  many  crooked  lines  in  his  head.  His 
conduct  at  Madras,  where  he  promoted  the  first  expedition 
against  Tanjore,  was  not  irreproachable.  From  that 
station,  however,  he  was  removed  to  Bengal,  with  great 
applause  and  still  greater  expectation.  Nothing  can  be 
more  certain  than  that  the  whole  plan  and  system  of 
Sir  George  Colebrooke's  administration  of  India  affairs, 
supported  by  Sullivan,  Purling,  Cockburn,  Macleane, 
Perry  Gust,  and  a  considerable  party  of  occasional  pro- 
prietors, was  directed  to  stock-jobbing,  and  on  this 
principle,  to  make  the  most  of  Bengal  while  they  had 
it  in  their  power.  It  is  now  well  known  that  the  Company 
was  sold  by  wholesale  and  retail  in  England,  about 
the  time  when  Hastings  was  sent  out,  and  John  Stewart 
and  Macleane  not  long  after  him,  to  act  as  the  grand 
instruments  of  the  party,  and  to  serve  the  same  purposes 
in  Bengal.  To  carry  their  plan  of  operations  completely 
into  effect,  it  was  necessary  that  he  should  set  out  with 
reputation,  make  a  promising  show  of  reformation,  and 
maintain  the  appearance  of  strict  integrity  for  a  period 
sufficient  to  establish  a  character,  and  to  enable  him 
to  do  the  greater  mischief  with  a  favourable  direction 
at  home.  The  grossest  deceptions  from  this  immense 
distance  may  easily  be  imposed  on  the  Company,  and 
still  more  easily  on  the  nation.  In  effect,  it  was  the 
interest  of  a  majority  of  the  general  courts,  as  they  were 
then  constituted,  to  encourage  such  deceptions.     Hastings 


1776]  PRIVATE  MEMORANDUM— INTRIGUES  IN  COUNCIL.   47 

himself,  in  whom  vanity,  I  think,  is  a  prevaihng  passion, 
could  not  but  take  some  relish  for  the  excessive  praises 
with  which  his  conduct  and  abilities  were  extolled.  He 
would  not,  I  am  persuaded,  have  sacrificed  such  a 
reputation  to  any  trifling  pecuniary  advantage,  though, 
when  once  immersed,  he  plunged  deeper  than  any  of 
his  predecessors.  The  determined  prostitution  of  John 
Graham  broke  in  upon  his  wily  reserves,  and  drove  him 
from  his  plan  rather  sooner  than  he  intended.  These 
men,  to  understand  one  another  perfectly,  required  nothing 
but  a  simple  explanation  of  their  respective  views.  As 
their  objects  and  principles  were  the  same,  they  could 
not  long  disagree  about  the  means  of  satisfying  each  other. 
In  the  first  opposition  to  Mr.  Hastings,  Graham  concurred 
with  Barwell,  and  pretended  to  give  him  the  lead,  until 
he  had  settled  his  terms  with  Hastings.  He  then  deserted 
Barwell,  carried  over  a  majority  of  the  council,  and  left 
Barwell  to  shift  for  himself.  The  five  years'  settlement 
of  the  provinces  (made  in  1772),  by  putting  up  the  lands 
to  auction,  promised  such  a  harvest  as  might  satisfy 
the  most  insatiable  avarice.  The  iniquity  of  this  measure, 
with  the  institution  of  the  Bank,  must  have  been  known 
to  some  persons  in  England  before  we  left  it.  The 
Johnstones  undoubtedly  had  received  intelligence  of 
what  was  going  forward  in  Bengal,  and  I  think  my  Lord 
North  must  have  had  some  reason  to  abate  of  that  exces- 
sive admiration  and  esteem  which  he  professed  for  Mr. 
Hastings,  otherwise  the  honours  which  were  intended  for 
him,  and  which  General  Clavering  earnestly  solicited 
of  the  king,  would  not  have  been  delayed  as  they  have 
been.  The  general,  who  dreaded  nothing  so  much  as 
Hastings  quitting  the  government,  urged  this  point  with 
his  usual  violence,  notwithstanding  I  often  remonstrated 
to  him  upon  the  hazard  and  inconvenience  of  granting 


48  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

honours  before  services  were  completed,  or  while  there 
was  a  possibility  that  hereafter  they  might  be  thought 
premature.  Yet,  at  that  time,  I  had  no  suspicion  of 
Hastings,  and  for  my  own  part  sincerely  wished  he  might 
be  treated  with  so  much  honour  and  respect  by  all 
parties  as  to  be  left  without  a  pretence  for  resigning. 
The  government  to  me  was  then  an  object  out  of  all  view  or 
contemplation.  The  idea  of  its  being  by  any  possibility 
attainable  never  occurred  to  me  till  the  beginning  of 
December  1774,  when  Clavering  informed  me  of  his 
resolution  to  decline  the  succession  himself,  and  showed 
me  a  private  letter  he  had  written  to  Lord  North,  in 
which  he  offered  to  serve  under  any  man  of  rank  and 
decided  principles.  The  letter  I  wrote  on  this  occasion 
will  show-  what  I  thought  of  his  resolution.  He  yielded 
to  my  remonstrances,  and  altered  his  plan.  Otherwise, 
I  am  convinced  he  desired  nothing  better  than  to  continue 
in  the  command  of  the  army,  leaving  Monson  and  me 

without  hope  of  advancement Before  my  arrival  in 

Bengal,  I  had  no  personal  view  of  any  kind  but  to  unite 
with  Hastings,  to  assist  him  in  the  detail  and  execution  of 
business,  and  to  prevent  such  an  .  .  .  The  first  glance  of 
the  measures  of  the  preceding  administration,  convinced 
me  that  the  root  of  the  tree,  and  every  branch  of  it,  was 
rotten.  I  might  indeed  have  sacrificed  honour,  duty, 
character,  and  ambition  to  immediate  ease  and  a  pre- 
carious fortune  ;  but  the  services  to  which  I  must  have 
submitted  would  have  been  too  gross,  the  concealments 
and  misrepresentations  to  which  I  must  have  been  a 
party  too  hazardous,  and  the  state  of  the  country  was 
too  far  inclined  to  distress,  which  must  be  felt  at  home, 
to  suffer  me  to  involve  myself  in  so  desperate  a  cause. 
Considering  the  nature  of  our  appointment,  and  the 
curiosity  and  expectation  with  which  our  conduct  was 


1776]  MEMORANDUM  OP  FEANCIS.  49 

likely  to  be  observed,  a  iinion  with  Mr.  Hastings  would 
have  been  a  very  dangerous  measure,  even  to  men  who 
might  not  be  scrupulous  enough  to  be  stopped  by  any 
consideration  but  danger.  The  Eohilla  war  furnished  us 
with  immediate  reasons  sufficient  to  undertake  and  avow 
a  determined  disapprobation  of  Mr.  Hastings'  political 
measures,  and  to  push  our  inquiries  with  the  same  spirit 
into  every  other  part  of  his  government.  Clavering 
had  been  shaken  by  the  private  representations  of  Joseph 
Fowke,  who  I  suspect  had  laid  a  plan  with  Nuncomar 
to  take  possession  of  us,  as  soon  as  we  arrived,  and 
through  us  to  govern  the  country.  The  mean  and  dis- 
honourable reception  we  met  with  at  our  landing  gave 
Clavering  the  second  shock.  But  it  was  the  certainty 
of  .  .  .  The  confusion  of  mind  in  which  we  found 
Mr.  Hastings,  and  which  betrayed  itself  in  all  his  actions 
and  discourses,  can  only  be  accounted  for  by  conscious 
guilt,  and  by  the  impossibility  he  foresaw  of  inducing 
us  to  participate  in  it.  On  the  day  after  our  arrival  we 
met  in  council,  but  found  no  business  of  any  kind  ready 
for  us — no  plan  prepared  for  the  first  formal  acts  and 
operations  of  a  new  government,  nor  any  measures  pro- 
posed even  for  proclaiming  it  to  the  country.  After 
four  hours  spent  in  stammering,  hesitating,  cavilling, 
and  objecting,  during  which  it  was  evident  that  Hastings 
wanted  nothing  but  to  gain  time,  he  at  last  told  us  that 
the  Company's  instructions,  particularly  the  powers  given 
to  the  commander-in-chief,  made  so  considerable  a 
change  in  his  situation,  that  he  must  desire  a  few  days 
to  determine  whether  he  should  continue  in  the  govern- 
ment or  not.  I  beheve  it  to  be  true  that,  on  this  point, 
he  was  undetermined;  but  it  could  not  be  owing  to 
anything  he  had  then  discovered  in  the  instructions, 
since  he  had  them  in  his  possession  for  some  time  before 

VOL.  II.  E 


50  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

our  arrival,  and  knew  perfectly  well  what  he  had  to 
trust  to  in  every  respect,  except  a  total  ignorance  of  the 
character  and  determination  of  his  new  colleagues.     The 
next  four  days  were  accordingly  employed  in  secret  con- 
sultations with  Graham,  Vansittart,  and  John  Stewart, 
which,  after  a  multitude  of  qualms  and  plenty  of  ill-humour 
ended  in  a  resolution  to  continue  in  the  government,  and 
of  this,  I  believe,  he  repented  within  a  day  after  he  had 
communicated  it  to  us.     He  could  not  but  feel  that  an 
arrangement  which  left  him  to  maintain   the  battle  in 
Bengal,  while  Graham  and  the  rest  went  home  to  make 
their  party  good  in  England,  gave  them  every  advantage 
over  him.     But  it  was  his  lot  to  be  constantly  awed  or 
overreached  by  Graham.     During  the  interval  of  these 
debates  we  were  kept  in  a  state  of  suspense  and  neglect, 
in  which  at  any  rate  he  should  not  have  left  us.     The 
minutes  and  letters  sent  to  the  Court  of  Directors  contain  a 
very  fair  state  of  our  subsequent  debates.    As  in  those  days 
always  ....  possible,  and  did  it  effectually  by  the  pro- 
test of  the  28th  October  1774,  which  Hastings,  with  some 
reason,  received  as  a  declaration  of  war.  Till  that  moment 
he  had  no.  conception  of  what  sort  of  persons  he  had  to 
deal  with.     In  the  first  place  he  concluded  it  would  be 
an  easy  matter  to  gain  us  by  corruption.     His  experience 
had  not  furnished  him  with  instances  of  resistance ;  his 
principles  excluded  the  possibility  of  it.     On  this  ground 
I  am  assured  he   was   prepared   to   meet   us   with   an 
offer  of  a  hundred  thousand  pounds  a-piece.     In  the  next, 
he  totally  mistook  our  respective  tempers  and  qualifica- 
tions.    He  thought  that  Clavering  was   the   only   man 
necessary  to  be  gained  ;  that  Monson  was  too  indolent 
to  act,  or  might  easily  be  awed  or  seduced  ;  and  that  I 
was  of  no  personal  consequence,  but  a  mere  dependent 
of  Clavering.     The  production  of  the  minutes  on   the 


1776]  MEMORANDUM  OF  FRANCIS.  61 

Eohilla  war  placed  every  object  in  a  new  light  before 
him.     He  saw  that  soroe  of  our  strength 

'  So  sudden  and  decisive  a  step  taken  by  men  who  had 
been  but  eight  days  in  the  country,  opened  his  eyes  at 
once  to  the  horror  of  his  situation.  The  proper  moment 
of  resigning  the  government  or  of  securing  some  merit 
with  us  by  laying  open  the  real  state  of  it,  was  past,  and 
what  had  he  now  to  expect  but  perpetual  hostility  with 
men  who  were  determined,  and  probably  would  have  it 
in  their  power,  to  expose  all  his  villanies  to  the  world. 
He  concluded  at  once  that  so  extraordinary  and  sudden 
a  resolution  to  attack  the  man  with  whom  we  were 
commissioned  to  act,  and  whose  character  stood  so  high, 
could  not  be  founded  on  the  single  measure  of  the 
Eohilla  war,  however  Hable  to  censure,  or  to  any  other 
error  of  judgment ;  and  that  we  must  have  discovered 
secrets  of  more  importance  to  his  reputation  and  safety. 
The  agitation  into  which  he  was  thrown  by  so  unex- 
pected a  stroke  approached  almost  to  frenzy.  The  sweat 
ran  down  his  face,  tears  gushed  from  his  eyes,  he  beat 
his  head,  and  ran  about  the  room  in  a  fit  of  distraction. 
The  reproaches  with  which  he  gave  vent  to  his  passion 
were  too  inarticulate  to  be  understood,  and  the  council 
broke  up  in  confusion. 

'  No  resolution  could  be  more  distressing  to  Hastings, 
nor  more  Ukely  to  ruin  him  in  the  event,  than  that  of 
recalling  the  brigade  immediately  out  of  the  Eohilla 
country.  The  secret  engagements  by  which  he  was 
bound  to  Suja  Dowla,  if  once  violated,  would  probably 
provoke  such  a  man  to  betray  the  most  delicate  and 
confidential  part  of  the  transactions  between  them.  We 
had  reason  to  believe  that  Hastings  had  not  gone  up  to 
Benares,  nor  engaged  in  so  dangerous  and  unwarrantable 
a  measure  as  the  extirpation  of  a  nation  allied  to  the 


62  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

Company,  witliout  taking  ample  care  of  his  own  fortune. 
To  quit  the  government  of  Bengal,  merely  for  the  pleasure 
of  a  personal  interview  with  Suja  Dowla,  or  to  transact 
the  ostensible  part  of  the  treaty  of  Benares,  was  a  very 
unnecessary  measure.  On  this  subject  there  was  but  one 
opinion  current  in  Bengal.  Subsequent  proofs  of  a  more 
direct  and  positive  nature  have  amply  confirmed  it.  But 
even  the  internal  evidence,  which  the  whole  transaction 
carries  with  it,  is  sufiicient  to  explain  the  real  motives  of 
Mr.  Hastings'  conduct.  He  knew  not  in  what  manner 
Suja  Dowla  might  be  affected  by  the  sudden  recall  of  the 
brigade.  Friendship  could  not  exist  between  such  men, 
and  he  had  little  reason  to  depend  on  his  discretion. 
In  these  circumstances,  it  was  natural  that  he  should 
exert  every  effort,  and  employ  every  artifice,  to  defeat 
or  retard  a  resolution  so  dangerous  to  him.  By  one 
contrivance  or  other,  he  obtained  a  delay  of  a  few 
weeks,  at  the  end  of  which  the  troops  quitted  the  Eohilla 
country. 

'  Next  to  us.  Colonel  Champion,  who  commanded  them, 
became  an  object  of  Mr.  Hastings'  resentment.  Had  the 
military  operations  been  pushed  with  greater  activity 
against  FyzuUa  Cawn  and  the  surviving  chiefs  of  the 
Eohillas,  who  had  taken  shelter  in  the  mountains  near 
LoUdong,  at  the  extremity  of  the  country,  the  war  might 
have  been  concluded  before  our  arrival,  and  the  brigade 
returned  within  the  limits  of  the  vizier's  dominions.  In 
that  case,  we  must  have  considered  the  Eohilla  war  as  a 
measure  not  only  decided,  but  concluded,  and,  having  no 
immediate  concern  in  the  event,  have  left  Mr.  Hastings  to 
answer  for  it  to  the  Company.  Colonel  Champion,  there- 
fore, supposing  it  to  have  been  in  his  power  to  have 
brought  the  war  to  a  speedier  issue,  was  the  cause  of 
Hastings'  present  distress,  and  of  course  the  object  of  his 


1776]  MEMOKANDUM  OF  FEANCIS.    (HASTINGS.)  53 

anger  and  reproaches  ....  between  him  and  the  Gover- 
nor, which  could  not  but  produce  some  material  discovery. 
They  carried  their  animosities  as  far  as  it  was  possible, 
with  one  reserve  only.     Amidst  a  multitude  of  mutual 
accusations  and  reproaches,  there  was  one  ground  which 
seemed  to  be  held  sacred  by  both  parties,  and  on  which 
neither   of  them   ever   ventured   to   commit   hostihties. 
They  never  accused  each  other  of  taking  money,  nor 
even  glanced  at  a  suspicion  that  corruption  on  both  sides 
might  have  been  the  source  of  those  measures,  which 
brought  them  into  their  present  state  of  hostility.     This 
cautious  reserve  on  the  most  important  topic  of  accusation, 
when  every  other  was  pushed  to  a  rancorous  excess,  and 
when  it  was  universally  suspected  that  one,  if  not  both  of 
them,  had  made  an  immense  fortune  by  the  war,  con- 
vinced me  that  the  public  suspicion  must  be  well  founded. 
The  fact,  as  I  believe,  is,  that  Hastings  made  at  least  ten 
lacs  by  the  war,'  or   obtained  engagements   from  Suja 
Dowla  to  that  amount,  and  Champion  as  much,  if  not 
more,  by  the  terms  which  he  obtained  for  FyzuUa  Cawn, 
the  last  surviving  chief  of  the  Eohillas,  much  against  the 
inchnation  of  the  vizier.     This  was  a  point  in  which  he 
was  expressly  forbidden  to  interfere.     The  ostensible  part 
he  took  had  every  topic  of  national  honour,  justice,  and 
compassion  to  defend  it ;  but  it  was  in  contradiction  to 
positive  instructions  ;  and,  after  all,  the  English  were  not 
principals  in  the  war.     At  aU  events,  an  officer,  command- 
ing a  body  of  auxihary  troops,  could  have  no  concern  in 
the  management  or  conclusion  of  it.     Colonel  Champion's 
secretary,  John  Murray,  negotiated  with  Fyzulla  Cawn ; 
the  colonel  and  he  had  an  interview ;  and  the  former 

'  All  accuaations  of  personal  corruption  against  Hastings  were  so  fully 
sifted  afterwards,  in  the  proceedings  of  many  years  against  him,  that  passages 
such  as  the  ahove  are  now  only  of  importance  as  exhibiting  the  state  of  co- 
temporary  feeling  on  the  part  of  his  opponents. 


64  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1776 

carried  an  immense  fortune  to  England.  This  state  of 
facts  does  not  do  much  honour  to  Colonel  Champion's 
motives.  Whatever  they  were,  a  part  of  the  devoted 
Eohillas  were  unquestionably  saved  by  his  mediation  ; 
that  is,  he  was  determined  by  a  large  bribe  to  protect  the 
same  people  whom  Hastings  had  been  bribed  to  extirpate. 
Either  of  them,  if  they  could  have  changed  places,  would 
probably  have  adopted  the  measures  of  his  opponent. 
Their  principles  and  object  were  the  same.  But  Cham- 
pion, who  never  was  on  good  terms  with  Suja  Dowla, 
had  laid  his  ground  for  clearing  himself  from  any  concern 
in  the  war  as  early  as  May  1774,  and  in  the  end 
carried  off  all  the  honour  of  the  transaction.  His 
letters  remonstrating  against  the  cruelties  practised  by 
our  ally  against  his  prisoners,  particularly  the  brutal 
treatment  of  their  wives  and  daughters,  will  always  do 
him  credit,  and  brand  the  name  of  Hastings  with  ever- 
lasting infamy. 

'  As  soon  as  the  recall  of  the  brigade  was  found  un- 
avoidable, the  next  object  was  to  palliate  the  matter  to 
Suja  Dowla,  and  to  obtain  from  him  a  letter  of  accusation 
against  Champion.  For  this  purpose,  Lauchlin  Macleane 
(whom  Sir  George  Colebrooke  had  sent,  from  the  cabals 
of  the  India  House  and  the  ruin  of  Change  Alley,  to 
comptrol  the  accounts  of  the  army  in  India)  was  des- 
patched with  a  private  commission  from  the  array  to 
Fyzabad.  Having  no  ostensible  business  at  the  Durbar, 
his  suddenly  going  thither  gave  us  room  to  suspect  that 
some  mischief  was  in  agitation.  The  vizier's  letter  against 
Champion  appeared  soon  after.  The  European  style  in 
which  it  was  conceived  showed  plainly  that  it  had  been 
fabricated  by  Macleane.  The  charges  contained  in  this 
letter  obliged  Champion  to  take  a  much  stronger  part 
against  Hastings  than  he   wished   or   intended.     After 


1776]        MEMORANDUM  OF  FEANCIS.    (HASTINaS.)  55 

many  qualms,  his  answer  was  produced  ;  and  (excepting 
that  he  kept  clear  of  any  hints  respecting  money)  was  as 
bitter  against  the  vizier  and  those  who  supported  him  as 
such  a  performance  could  be.     To  resist  all  these  attacks, 
it  was  not  thought  fit  that  Graham  and  Lawrell  should 
go   home  without   the  assistance  of  some   person  who 
understood  the  political  geography  of  England.     Neither 
perhaps   was   it   quite   safe  for   Hastings   to   trust   Mr. 
Graham  alone.     Such  were  the  motives  which  prevailed 
with  Macle^ne  to  resign  his  place,  and  once  more  meet 
beggary  and  his  creditors  in  Leadenhall  Street.     I  take 
for  granted  he  secured  proper  terms  with  his  employers. 
They  had  money  in  abundance,  and  lavished  it  to  every- 
body from  whom  they  had  a  hope  of  assistance.     In  the 
person  of  this  gentleman,  they  undoubtedly  made  a  very 
judicious  choice.     With  a  natural  disposition  to  intrigue, 
his  zeal  and  perseverance  are  indefatigable.     It  has  since 
been  discovered  that  he  carried  full  powers  from  Hast- 
ings, to  which  Barwell  was  not  privy,  to  treat  for  him 
with  the  ministry,  and  even  to  resign  the  government  if 
necessary.     Hastings,  however,  was  not  so  perfectly  secure 
of  the  success  of  these  measures  as  to  renounce  all  hopes 
of  accommodation  with  us.     A  few  days  before  the  de- 
parture of  the  first  ship,  he  sent  us  a  formal  embassy  by 
John  Stewart,  offering  to  act  openly  with  us,  to  lay  the 
real  state   of  the  government  before   us,  and  to  yield 
to   our   ideas  in  future,   provided  we  would   drop   the 
resolution  of  making  any  separate  representation  to  the 
Court  of  Directors.      The  proposition  was  captious,  and, 
if  made  at  an  earlier  period,  might  have  been  listened  to 
by  some  of  us.     But  we  were  then  committed  by  so 
many    declarations,   which   left   no    plea    for    error   of 
judgment,  that  none  of  us,  I  think,  could  have  retreated 
with  honour.  ....  heartily  prayed  for  by  the  whole 


56  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

settlement.     On  his  recovery,  every   artifice  was   tried 
to  gain  him  by  the  other  party.     His  own  temper  in- 
chned  to  a  kind  of  mediating  conduct,  by  which  he  would 
have  stood  well  with  all  parties,  without  engaging  deci- 
sively with  any.  .  .  .     Notwithstanding  Colonel  Monson 
had  signed  the  protest  and  minute  on  the  Eohilla  war, 
his    subsequent    peevishness    and    irresolution    became 
insupportable,  and   was  very  near  throwing  the  game 
into  the  enemy's  hand.     The  recommendation  of  Bristow 
to  succeed  Nathaniel  Middle  ton  as  a  resident  at  Suja 
Dowla's  court,  among  other  incidents,  gave  great  offence 
to   Monson,   who   had    unwarily   recommended   Hosea. 
From  this  time  he  kept  a  sullen  reserve  about  offices,  and 
never  would  recommend  to  any.     Clavering  and  I  acted 
with  more  determination ;  and,  in  the  end,  Monson  him- 
self, from  mere  accident  or  passion,  and  contrary  to  his 
principles,  plunged  as  deep  as  either  of  us. 

'Clavering's  rupture  with  the  chief  justice  took  place  a 
little  before  Graham's  departure  for  England,  when  that 
man  was  accused  of  seizing  the  young  Eajah  of  Burdwan, 
and  carrying  him  away  a  prisoner  from  his  mother's 
house. ^  The  charge  was  true,  and  might  have  been 
very  troublesome  to  Graham  if  he  had  not  taken  proper 
measures  to  secure  the  friendship  of  the  chief  justice. 
From  that  early  moment  I  conclude  that  Impey  had  taken 
his  hne  against  us.  The  views  of  that  party  in  England, 
which  had  placed  such  a  man  in  such  an  employment, 
were  now  so  evident,  and  the  success  of  them  so  probable, 
that  some  of  the  natives,  who  had  heard  that  Hastings 
and  Impey  were  schoolfellows,  have  asked  me  seriously 
whether  they  were  not  of  the  same  caste  ?  Claverino',  with 
his  usual  vehemence,  inilamed  by  Joseph  Fowke,  was  for 

'  Vide  Ranny',s  petition. 


1776]   MEMORANDUM  OF  FRANCIS.    (SUPREME  COURT.)    57 

immediate  war  with  tlie  judges,  and  a  declaration  against 
the  establishment  of  the  Supreme  Court.  I  thought  we 
had  enemies  enough  to  contend  with.  The  secret  rancour 
which  long  subsisted  in  the  breasts  of  Impey  and  Claver- 
ing  against  each  other,  now  broke  out  into  an  avowed 
personal  enmity.  No  event  could  have  been  more 
favourable  to  Hastings.  It  gave  him  all  the  assistance  of 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Judicature,  engaged  all  the  lawyers 
personally  against  us,  increased  the  objects  of  our  attack, 
and  distracted  our  attention  to  new  matter,  though  we  had 

already  more  than  we  could  manage.    Chambers 

in  all  their  public  opinions  and  decisions,  particularly  in 
the  verdict  against  Fowke  and  the  murder  of  Nuncomar, 
his  deserting  us  in  that  manner,  and  condemning  us  with 
an  apparent  reluctance,  looked  like  the  confession  of  a 
friend,  and  did  us  more  mischief  perhaps  than  the  de- 
clared hostility  of  the  others.  I  resisted  Clavering's  im- 
portunities to  attack  the  Supreme  Court  until  I  thought 
there  was  pubhc  ground  for  taking  such  a  step,  and  long 
enough  to  make  it  appear  ....  when  it  was  done.  I 
dissented  from  the  first  proposal  made  by  the  Governor- 
General  himself  in  Feb.  1775,  to  remonstrate  against  the 

institution  of  the  court At  that  early  period,  when 

it  was  impossible  for  us  to  have  any  experience  of  the  effects 
of  the  institution,  the  step  appeared  to  me  precipitate  and 
indecent.  It  seemed  only  an  opposition  of  our  abstract 
opinion,  without  facts  to  support  it,  to  the  wisdom  of  the 
legislature.  Our  duty  unquestionably  required  of  us,  in 
the  first  instance,  to  endeavour  to  carry  the  Act  of  Parha- 
ment  into  execution ;  or  why  did  we  undertake  the  govern- 
ment instituted  by  it  ?  General  arguments  against  the 
institution  of  the  Supreme  Court  were  as  obvious  to  us  in 
England  as  they  could  be  within  three  months  after  our 
arrival  in  Bengal,  when  in  trutli  the  court  had  hardly 


68  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

begun  their  operations.  It  required  experience  to  inform 
us  either  that  the  plan  itself  was  ruinous  to  the  country, 
or  that  the  judges  would  make  it  so  by  an  unlawful  and 
unlimited  extension  of  their  jurisdiction.  Hastings  at  first 
was  more  averse  than  any  of  us  to  the  institution  of  the 
court,  and  to  the  introduction  of  British  laws  in  any  shape 
whatsoever  ;  but  he  wished  to  compass  the  dissolution  of 
the  court  without  injuring  his  friend  Impey  or  Lemaistre, 
whom  I  then  took  for  granted  he  had  found  means  to  re- 
concile to  his  purpose.  Of  Lemaistre  that  suspicion  was 
unquestionably  ill-founded.  The  paragraph,  which  lie 
himself  drew  up  and  substituted  in  the  place  of  one  pro- 
posed by  Clavering,  should  be  preserved  in  this  narrative 
with  my  dissent,  in  consequence  of  which  the  general 
letter  was  altered  after  it  had  been  signed.  Neither  of 
these  papers  appear  on  the  records. 

'  The  difference  between  Clavering  and  Hastings  is,  that 
the  former  lays  the  fault  on  the  judges,  the  latter  on  the 
law. 

'  The  observations  contained  in  these  memoirs  will  con- 
tribute everything  that  may  be  wanted  in  the  pubhc 
records  to  give  a  true  idea  of  the  state  in  which  we  found 
Bengal,  and  to  establish  the  future  history  of  our  govern- 
ment on  a  sure  foundation.  Hereafter  I  shall  content 
myself  with  fixing  the  dates  of  remarkable  events,  pre- 
serving such  anecdotes  only  as  may  serve  to  explain  them. 
The  true  character  of  Hastings  and  Barwell,  with  their 
respective  views  in  uniting  against  us,  is  the  only  point 
now  which  requires  illustration. 

'  Hastings  has  resided  so  long  in  Bengal,  that  in  many 
respects  he  may  be  considered  as  a  native.  He  assumes 
the  arms  as  well  as  the  name  of  the  Huntingdon  family, 
but  no  man  knows  with  what  right  or  by  what  authority. 
I  understand  him  to  be  the  natural  son  of  a  steward  of 


1776]         MEMORANDUM  OF  FRANCIS.     (PIASTINGS.)  59 

the  late  Lord  Darlington.'  His  birth,  however,  could 
never  be  the  subject  of  a  question  but  for  his  own  folly 
in  pretending  to  deduce  it  from  the  noblest  blood  in  Eng- 
land. He  has  all  the  craft  of  a  Bengalee,  united  however 
with  a  degree  of  vanity  and  impatience  of  contradiction 
which  sometimes  throws  him  off  his  guard.  When  these 
passions  are  under  command,  he  can  put  on  a  smile  and 
assume  an  air  of  innocence  and  candour  enough  to  melt 
or  seduce  a  generous  mind,  and  to  deceive  any  man  unac- 
quainted with  his  arts,  or  less  proficient  in  hypocrisy  than 
himself.  His  reserve,  whether  natural  or  acquired,  is  so 
excessive,  that  I  firmly  beheve  he  never  reposed  an  entire 
confidence  in  any  man.  This  policy  or  temper  suited  the 
sordid  objects  he  had  in  view,  and  the  crooked  ways  by 
which  he  was  obhged  to  compass  them.  Great  ambitious 
views  can  never  succeed,  nor  will  they  probably  be  enter- 
tained by  men  of  such  a  disposition.  There  must  be  some 
degree  of  confidence  and  liberality  in  a  mind  which  sacri- 
fices everything  to  ambition.  Mr.  Hastings'  first  object 
is  money,  though  I  do  not  dispute  that  he  would  be  well 
pleased  to  have  honour  into  the  bargain.  Yet  he  is  not 
strictly  avaricious ;  for  no  man  by  all  accounts  takes  less 
care  of  his  money,  or  can  occasionally  bestow  it  more  hand- 
somely. Whether  he  takes  care  of  it  or  not,  he  certainly 
keeps  a  most  minute  and  regular  account  of  all  his  expenses. 
Let  it  be  remembered,  however,  that  the  sudden  acquisi- 
tion of  immense  wealth,  and  the  constant  traffic  of  large 
sums,  naturally  make  us  indifferent  about  small  ones,  and 
that  such  a  one  who,  with  the  wealth  of  a  nabob,  makes 

'  So  I  have  been  repeatedly  assured  by  Lady  Anne  Monson,  who  was  a 
daughter  of  that  family.  She  told  me  her  father  sent  him  with  his  own 
sons  to  Westminster  School,  where  he  was  called  The  Classical  Bmj. 

[The  circumstances  of  Warren  Hastings'  birth  (see  Gleig's  '  Life,'  vol.  i. 
p.  6),  are  certainly  suspicious  enough  to  have  given  currency  to  this  or  any 
other  gossiping  story.     He  was  emphatically  the  child  of  fortune.] 


60  MEMOIES  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1776 

a  great  contribution,  whenever  his  generosity  or  vanity  is 
appealed  to,  might  not  part  with  a  shilling  on  the  same 
occasion  if  fortune  had  left  him  where  he  was  placed 
by  nature.  Eapacity,  not  avarice,  is  the  general  charac- 
teristic of  our  people  settled  in  India.  The  facility  of 
plundering  banishes  the  idea  of  saving.  The  apparent 
generosity  of  men  in  high  stations  in  Bengal  must  also  be 
attributed  in  some  degree  to  policy.  The  voice  of  any 
individual,  however  inconsiderable,  is  of  consequence  to 
men  who  have  no  public  merits  to  appeal  to,  or  whose 
conduct  in  office  will  not  bear  examination.  On  this 
principle  the  late  Governor  Vansittart,  and  Mr.  Hastings 
in  imitation  of  him,  though  not  so  gracefully,  made  it 
their  study  to  gain  every  man  who  went  to  England  by 
acts  of  Hberality — not  always  at  their  own  expense — or  by 
marks  of  personal  attention,  by  which  the  applause  of  men 
is  cheaply  purchased.  These  arts,  supported  by  a  general 
communion  of  interests,  account  for  the  praises  industri- 
ously lavished  on  Mr.  Hastings  by  those  who,  having  seen 
him  last,  were  supposed  to  be  best  acquainted  with  him. 
Since  our  arrival,  he  has  applied  himself  with  greater 
zeal  than  ever  to  gain  individuals  ;  and  though  questions 
of  pecuniary  interest  between  the  Company  and  private 
persons  come  before  us  every  day,  I  solemnly  aver  that  I 
never  knew  him  to  take  part  with  the  Company  in  a 
single  instance,  except  that  of  Colonel  Stibbert's  allowances, 
which  he  proposed  should  be  reduced  to  about  7,000^. 
a-year,  exclusive  of  secret  emoluments,  which,  to  a  com- 
mander-in-chief in  the  field,  must  be  as  considerable  as 
he  thinks  proper  to  make  them.  But  Stibbert  was  pa- 
tronised by  General  Clavering,  and  affected  to  take  part 
with  us.  The  general  policy  of  this  conduct  is  obvious. 
The  attachment  of  individuals  may  be  gained,  but  public 
bodies  have  no  gratitude.     In   the  least   exceptionable 


1776]  MEMORANDUM  OF  FRANCIS.    (BARWELL.)  61 

parts  of  Mr.  Hastings'  character  he  cannot  be  more  ex- 
actly described  than  by  some  Hnes  in  that  of  Carvalho, 
the  famous  minister  of  Portugal.  "  He  is  sagacious ;  but 
having  seldom  the  good  fortune  to  reason  upon  right 
principles,  his  sagacity  in  many  important  instances  serves 
only  to  mislead  him.  He  has  had  experience  ;  but  ill- 
considered  facts,  without  principles  or  instruction,  have 
perplexed  his  understanding.  He  is  industrious  beyond 
measure  ;  but  his  industry,  supported  by  a  jealousy  of  all 
competition  with  him,  has  this  dangerous  tendency,  that 
while  he  engrosses  more  of  the  executive  branch  than  he 
can  possibly  support,  no  one  office  of  the  state  is  executed 
as  it  should  be ;  and  business  stands  stiU."^ 

'  The  opinion  of  Mr.  Barwell's  personal  enmity  to 
Hastings,  of  his  factious  temper  and  petidant  proceedings 
in  council,  prevailed  so  generally  in  England  about  May 
and  June  1773,  that  the  minister  was  blamed  for  admit- 
ting such  a  man  to  a  place  in  the  new  government.  Even 
after  the  bill  had  passed  the  House  of  Commons,  it  was 
secretly  debated  whether  his  name  should  not  be  left  out 
by  the  Lords,  and  one  of  Lord  Darlington's  brothers  was 
actually  a  candidate  for  the  vacancy.  Barwell's  friends 
had  no  resource  but  to  swear  for  him,  by  all  their  gods, 
that  for  the  future  he  should  unite  heartily  with  Hastings, 
and  support  his  measures  whatever  they  might  be  without 
distinction.  Such  unUmited  engagements  are  never  made 
for  men  of  honour  or  who  have  any  character  to  maintain. 
They  could  not  be  made  for  Mr.  BarweU  without  sup- 
posing him  ready  to  renounce  all  his  former  declared 
principles  and  professions,  and  to  accept  of  employment 
at  any  rate.     He  made  good  the  opinion  his  friends  enter- 

•  '  I  cannot  get  rid  of  an  idea,  whicli  incessantly  occurs  to  me,  that  Mr. 
H.  has  many  of  the  features  of  Charles  I.  in  his  character,  hut  not  as  he  is 
drawn  by  Lord  Clarendon.' 


63  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776' 

tained  of  him,  and  ratified  their   engagements   without 
scruple. 

'  Mr.  Barwell,  I  think,  has  all  the  bad  qualities  common 
to  this  cUmate  and  country,  of  which  he  is  in  every 
sense  a  native  ;  but  I  do  not  affirm  that  there  is  no  mix- 
ture whatsoever  of  good  in  his  composition.  George 
Vansittart  is  the  only  man  to  whom  such  unallayed 
purity  of  character  is  supposed  to  belong.  Barwell  is 
rapacious  without  industry,  and  ambitious  without  an 
exertion  of  his  faculties  or  steady  application  to  affairs. 
He  would  be  governor-general,  if  money  could  make  him 
so  ;  and,  in  that  station,  he  would  soon  engross  the  wealth 
of  the  country.  But  he  is  too  indolent  to  submit  to  per- 
sonal labour  of  any  kind,  for  the  attainment  of  these  or 
any  other  favourite  objects.  He  will  do  whatever  can  be 
done  by  bribery  and  intrigue.  He  has  no  other  re- 
source. His  mind  is  strictly  effeminate,  and  unequal  to 
any  serious  constant  occupation,  except  gaming,  in  which 
alone  he  is  indefatigable.  Though  he  does  not  appear  to 
want  capacity,  he  is  more  ignorant  than  might  be  expected 
from  the  common  education  of  Westminster  School, 
though  abandoned  without  farther  improvement ;  and 
this  never  appears  so  grossly  as  when  he  studies  to  dis- 
tinguish himself  by  a  display  of  knowledge  or  ability. 
His  style  may  be  collected  from  the  minute  quoted  in  the 
margin.  His  appointment  to  a  seat  in  the  supreme 
council  was  known  in  India  several  months  before  our 
arrival.  The  first  effect  it  produced  was  a  reconciliation 
between  him  and  Hastings,  on  such  terms  as  Barwell 
thought  fit  to  prescribe.  In  spite  of  all  Mr.  Middleton's 
remonstrances,  a  separate  coUectorship  was  detached  from 
the  district  of  Moorshedabad  for  the  accommodation  of 
Mr.  Barton.  On  what  other  terms  Mr.  Barwell's  friend- 
ship was  purchased  can  only  be  matter  of  conjecture. 


1776]         MEMOEANDUM  OF  FEANCIS.     (BARWELL.)  63 

He  may  probably  have  been  allured  with  the  hopes  of 
succeeding  to  the  government,  by  some  new  arrange- 
ment, which  the  united  strength  of  the  India  interest  was 
to  form  and  effectuate  in  England.  The  bargain,  what- 
ever it  was,  appeared  in  the  end  most  advantageous  to 
Hastings  ;  Barwell  at  least  might  have  made  better  terms 
with  us,  if  he  had  been  perfectly  at  liberty  to  choose. 
But  the  plain  truth  is,  he  had  too  many  villanies  of  his 
own  to  conceal,  to  permit  him  to  declare  war  with  men 
who  had  it  in  their  power  to  destroy  him,  and  with  whom, 
though  personally  at  variance  about  the  division  of  the 
spoUs,  he  was  necessarily  united  by  one  common  bond  of 
fear,  guilt,  and  interest.  The  violent  manner  in  which 
he  declared  himself  for  all  Mr.  Hastings'  measures,  past, 
present,  and  to  come,  showed  plainly  the  determination 
of  a  man  bound  by  contract,  and  performing  his  part  of 
it  without  decency  or  judgment.  Though  he  had  no 
concern  in  the  Eohilla  war,  and  might  have  contented 
himself  with  simply  supporting  it  as  a  fact,  he  voluntarily 
adopted  the  pretended  principles  of  that  measure  in  their 
utmost  latitude,  and  pushed  them  to  an  excess  to  which 
Mr.  Hastings  himself  was  afraid  or  too  prudent  to  follow 
him.  His  conduct  was  the  same  on  every  other  ques- 
tion ;  so  that  Mr.  Hastings,  besides  all  other  advantages,  had 
the  pleasure  of  seeing  a  man  he  hated  reduced  to  be  one 
of  his  own  most  vehement  advocates,  and  so  pledged  and 
entangled  by  precipitate  declarations,  that  he  never  could 
retreat.  It  was  not  long  before  Barwell.  saw  the  folly  of 
his  proceedings,  and  endeavoured  to  take  secret  measures 
to  obviate  the  effects  of  them.  In  February,  1775,  I 
began  to  perceive  a  change  of  language  and  behaviour  in 
Clavering  towards  this  gentleman,  whom  till  then  he  had 
never  quahfied  with  any  civiller  epithet  than  fool  or 
rogue.     To  Barwell  himself  he  manifestly  showed  unusual 


64  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

attention.  To  us,  he  affected  to  speak  of  him  as  a  man 
of  spirit  and  abilities,  unwarily  engaged  in  a  desperate 
cause,  which  he  was  ready  to  abandon,  if  we  were  ready 
to  receive  him,  and  who  in  short  would  be  an  important 

acquisition ' 

The  fragment  is  here  so  mutilated  that  the  attempt  to 
follow  its  clue  must  be  abandoned  :  and  we  must  return 
to  the  private  letters. 

To  John  Bourhe. 

March  20,  1776. 
Here  I  live,  master  of  tlie  finest  house  in  Bengal,  with  a  hundred 
servants,  a  country  house  and  spacious  gardens,  horses,  and  car- 
riages. .  .  .  Yet  so  perverse  is  my  nature,  that  the  devil  take  me  if 
I  would  not  exchange  the  best  dinner  and  the  best  company  I  ever 
saw  in  Bengal,  for  a  beef-steak  and  claret  at  the  Horn,  and  let  me 
choose  my  company.  Be  so  good  as  live  till  I  return,  and  tell  Mr. 
Burke  that  wherever  fortune  may  think  fit  to  place  me,  I  shall  think 
it  an  honour  and  a  happiness  to  be  permitted  to  cultivate  his  friend- 
ship. I  will  not  return  without  an  independence.  Tou  know  the 
spirit  that  is  in  me.  Oh,  Burke  !  I  wish  you  had  a  horse  which  has 
been  lately  sent  me  from  Agra,  positively  the  noblest  creature  of 
his  kind.  He  is  supposed  to  be  cheap  at  two  thousand  rupees. 
And  now  I  shaU  prance  like  a  general  officer,  and  ride  over  the  vul- 
gar. Perisse  la  canaille  is  the  motto  of  the  English  Government  in 
India ;  as  poor  Fitzpatrick  once  seriously  thought  it  was  m.ine. 

'  My  good  friend,'  he  writes  to  Mr.  Fowke,  at  Benares,  June  10, 
1776,  'I  cannot  be  blind  to  the  particular  disadvantages  of  my  situ- 
ation. If  the  b  ashless  be  done  it  must  be  by  the  representations 
sent  home.  By  these  we  must  stand  or  fall.  Apparently  they  are 
joint  and  common  acts.  Yet  no  man,  I  presume,  will  hesitate  to  at- 
tribute the  immediate  manufacture  of  them  to  one  of  us.  This  is 
an  honour  I  am  by  no  means  desirous  of  engrossing.  In  plain 
English,  I  have  laid  the  foundation  of  such  personal  odium  against 
me  as  I  am  convinced  will  last  me  as  long  as  I  Uve,  and  probably 
descend  to  my  children — ^the  only  inheritance  I  shall  leave  them.'' 


'  There  were  four  distinct  persons  of  the  name  of  Fowke  who  are  more  or 
less  noticeable  in  connection  with  the  correspondence  of  Francis. 

1.  General  Fowke,  who  commanded  at  Gibraltar,  and  was  '  ruined ' 
(according  to  the  second  letter  of  'Veteran/  Feb.  17,  1772)  by  Lord  Barring- 


177ej  THE  FOWKE  FAMILY.  65 

The  following,  to  the  wife  of  his  friend  Mr.  Strachey, 
partakes  of  that  vein  of  badinage,  sometimes  happy  but 
sometimes  a  httle  artificial,  in  which,  as  has  been  said, 
he  was  wont  to  address  ladies  :- — 

Dear  Madam, — Tou  ■write  so  good  a  hand,  that  I  wish,  you  were 
my  secretary ;  but  that  hand  is  directed  by  so  good  a  heart,  that  I 
hereby  claim  and  insist  upon  your  allotting  me  as  much  room  in  it 
as  you  can  any  way  spare  to  a  sincere  and  grateful  friend.  I  have 
but  little  time  to  tell  you  how  much  I  deserve  of  you  in  that  charac- 
ter. Be  so  good  as  to  live  till  I  return,  and  you  shall  see  wonders  : 
you  shall  see  me  whom  India  has  made  neither  rich  nor  saucy.  I 
profess  to  have  one  or  two  qualities  at  least,  to  which  this  infamous 
climate  cannot  reach  ;  the  rest  is  at  the  mercy  of  the  sun,  whose  Hght, 
the  moment  I  can  command  wax  candles  and  a  coal  fire,  I  solemnly 
disclaim  for  ever.  Let  him  ripen  his  cabbages,  and  show  peasants 
the  way  to  their  daily  labour.  I  desire  to  have  no  farther  commu- 
nication with  him,  but  to  vegetate  in  a  hot-house,  as  a  gentleman 
should  do.  I  observe  with  great  comfort  that  the  family  of  the 
Lathams  and  Stracheys  is  growing  very  populous.   State  the  numbers 


ton  persuading  Mm  to  take  the  blame  of  certain  injudicious  instructions  of 
his  own  when  Secretary  at  War. 

2.  Francis  Fowke,  a  literary  man,  mentioned  in  Boswell's  'Johnson'  (July 
11,  1776). 

8.  Joseph  Fowke,  brother  of  the  last  mentioned,  went  to  India  as  a  writer 
in  1736,  returning  to  England  in  1752,  where  he  became  acquainted  with 
Dr.  Johnson,  who  calls  him  his  '  dear  friend :'  returned  to  India  in  1770 ; 
was  mixed  up  with  Nuncomar  in  alleged  conspiracies  against  Hastings,  for 
which  he  was  twice  proceeded  against  in  the  Supreme  Court ;  became  a 
kind  of  dependent  on  Francis  while  he  remained  in  India,  and  finally 
returned  to  England  on  a  pension,  where  he  died  in  1806.  See  '  Gent.v 
Magazine '  for  Dec.  1817.  He  was  a  friend  and  occasional  correspondent  of 
Francis  to  the  end  of  his  Ufe,  who  nevertheless  speaks  of  him  with  distrust 
in  his  journals. 

4.  Francis  Fowke  the  younger,  son  of  the  above,  appointed  resident  at 
Benares,  removed  by  Hastings,  which  removal  was  repeatedly  disapproved  of 
by  the  Directors,  on  the  remonstrances  of  the  other  councillors,  but  persis- 
tently maintained  by  Hastings,  until  he  finally  yielded  the  point  to  Francis 
under  the  circumstances  which  will  hereafter  appear. 

From  the  mention  of  General  Fowke  by  '  Veteran,'  it  has  been  conjec- 
tured that  the  general  was  connected  with  the  other  Fowkes,  and  in  some 
way  or  other  with  Francis.  I  find,  however,  no  proof  of  this.  It  would 
seem  rather,  by  the  letters  before  us,  that  the  patrons  of  the  family  in  India 
were  Lord  Barrington  and  General  Clavering. 
VOL.  II.  F 


63  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1775 

as  higli  as  you  will,  wtile  the  dispute  continues,  the  exaggeration 
ends.  This  is  Ned  Burke,  whose  ideas  of  population  I  see  it  is  needless 
to  recommend  to  you.  And  so  you  have  determined  that  I  shall  stay 
in  Bengal  till  I  have  settled  your  infant  colony  for  you,  and  can 
leave  it  in  a  flourishing  condition.  Indeed,  madam,  I  am  not  satis- 
fied with  the  share  you  have  allotted  me  in  this  useful  work.  I 
would  rather  be  employed  as  you  are.  Leave  it  to  me  to  provide 
emigrants,  and  do  you  come  here  and  settle  them. 

Soberly  and  sadly,  this  is  no  market  for  young  ladies.  The  same 
heat  which  ripens  the  fruit,  reduces  the  appetite,  whereof  the  proofs 
are  rather  melancholy  than  pregnant.  How  long  beauty  will  keep 
in  this  country  is  too  delicate  a  question  for  me  to  determine  ; — you, 
who  can  read  faces,  would  see  lines  in  some  of  them  which  time 
ought  not  to  have  written  there  so  soon. 

«  #  #  # 

The  politics  of  this  strange  place  are  not  for  a  lady's  ear ; — and 
it  furnishes  no  other  topics  of  conversation.  We  have  malice  and 
scandal  enough  to  supply  a  larger  settlement.  But  positively  they 
live  like  camceleons  on  the  air,  without  any  solid  facts  to  feed  on. 
They  also  change  their  colour  with  their  ground,  so  what  is  here 
calumny  in  one  house  is  gospel  in  another.  On  arguments  of  this 
nature  I  am  seldom  consulted,  because  I  profess  to  admire  beauty  on 
both  sides  of  the  question,  and  am  not  afraid  to  pay  my  respects  to 
an  agreeable  woman  even  in  the  enemy's  camp.  At  the  same  time 
time  I  have  a  reserve  of  moderation  and  coldness  in  my  constitution 
which  I  keep  for  the  use  of  aged  ladies,  including  those  whom  the 
small-pox  has  not  spared.  In  spite  of  aU  their  politics  Mrs.  Hyde 
and  Lady  Impey  are  pleased  to  except  me  from  my  friends,  and,  as  I 
take  care  to  acknowledge  their  respective  merits,  allow  me  in  that  in- 
stance at  least  to  be  a  just  and  generous  enemy.  As  longas  they  show 
me  the  same  countenance  they  may  be  secure  of  the  same  attachment. 

About  this  time  the  news  reached  India  of  the  proceed- 
ings at  the  East  India  House,  December  11,  1775,  when 
the  removal  of  Hastings  and  Barwell  was  negatived,  al- 
though supported  by  the  friends  of  Lord  North.  This 
accounts  in  some  degree  for  the  dispirited  tone  of  his 
letter  to  Mr.  Strachey  by  the  same  mail : — 

I  sometimes  think  that  our  noble  departed  friend,  while  he  was 
here,  felt  as  I  do.  The  firmest  of  all  human  minds  could  not  always 
command  the  frail  machinery  in  which  it  was  lodged.     The  waste 


1776]  WINNINGS  AT  WHIST.  67 

of  spirits  in  this  cursed  country  is  a  diseaee  unconquerable — a  misery- 
unutterable. 

....  I  begin  to  fancy  tbat  I  myself  have  a  very  good  constitu- 
tion, or  I  never  could  have  resisted  sucb  a  climate  and  such  toil  in 
the  manner  I  have  done.  My  two  colleagues  are  in  a  woful  condi- 
tion. Colonel  Monson  obliged  to  go  to  sea  to  save  his  life,  and 
General  Clavering  on  his  back  covered  with  boils.  I  see  no  reason 
why  Barwell  should  be  alive,  but  that  death  does  not  think  it  worth 
while  to  kill  him.  He  is  a  mere  shadow.  As  for  Hastings,  I 
promise  you  he  is  much  more  tough  than  any  of  us  :  and  wiU  never 
die   a   natural  death.      Nuncomar  might  have   been   a   notorious 

rascal,  but,  by ,  he  spoke  truth,  or  why  were  they  iu  such  a 

hurry  to  hang  him  ? 

Wliile  thus  deeply  engaged  in  a  course  of  partisanship 
on  which  (at  least  in  his  own  opinion)  his  honour,  and 
his  success  in  life,  were  irrevocably  engaged,  Francis 
had  been  at  the  same  time  plunging  with  all  the  ve- 
hemence of  his  character  into  a  very  different  course  of  ex- 
citement. We  have  seen  (from  Macrabie's  Journal)  that 
cards,  and  especially  whist,  formed  the  regular  occupation 
of  his  evenings  in  Bengal ;  and  also  that  he  passed  for  a 
winner.  But  the  extraordinary  run  of  luck  which  at 
this  time  set  in  upon  him,  was  such  as  literally  to  change — 
and  permanently  as  it  turned  out — his  pecuniary  position 
and  prospects  in  life.  He  had  hitherto  been  only  saving, 
as  well  as  an  establishment  in  India  and  one  in  England 
would  allow  him,  out  of  his  salary  of  10,000Z.  a-year. 

His  first  intimations  to  his  friends  on  this  subject,  very 
confidential,  occur  some  months  earlier.  He  writes  to 
Chandler  in  March,  1776,  'An  extraordinary  stroke  of 
fortune  has  made  me  independent.  Two  years  more 
will  probably  raise  me  to  affluent  circumstances.'  And 
to  his  friend  Francis  Fowke,  at  Benares,  in  May,  after 
discussing  sundry  modes  of  investment :  '  T  beheve  I 
must  revert  to  my  first  request  to  you  to  procure  me  a 
small  venture  of  diamonds  on  the  most  favourable  terms 

T  2 


68  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

I  can.  I  have  actually  won  a  fortune,  and  must  think  of 
some  means  of  realising  it  in  England.  Keep  all  this 
stuff  to  yourself.' 

'  With  regard  to  gaming '  (he  writes  in  April  to  another 
correspondent  in  India,  whose  name  is  not  preserved  in 
the  copy),  '  and  all  its  dreadful  consequences,  yoiu-  advice 
is  unquestionably  good,  and  not  the  worse  for  being  tole- 
rably obvious.  It  is  true  I  have  won  a  fortune — and 
intend  to  keep  it.  Your  tenderness  for  the  loser  is  ad- 
mirable. If  money  be  his  blood,  I  feel  no  kind  of  remorse 
in  opening  his  veins  ;  the  bloodsucker  should  bleed,  and 
can  very  well  afford  it.' 

The  news  of  these  successes,  exaggerated  no  doubt  by 
fame,  reached  England  in  due  time ;  and  drew  forth  the 
following  friendly  remonstrance  from  John  Bourke,  Oct. 
29,  1776  : — '  I  should  not  forget  intelligence  from  Bengal 
which  I  heard  last  night.  Barwell  has  lost  at  play  sixty 
lacs  of  rupees :  Leslie  won  ten,  Lemaistre  twenty,  and 
Francis  the  remainder.  Some  say  we  may  read  thousand 
pounds  sterhng  for  lacs.  Let  me  give  Francis  a  piece  of 
advice,  though  it  may  probably  arrive  18  months  too 
late  :  if  he  has  won,  let  him  keep  what  he  has  got,  and 
avoid  high  play.' 

'  Your  stroke  of  fortune  (writes  D'Oyly  to  him)  has  for 
some  time  been  the  general  subject  of  conversation  both 
at  this  end  of  the  town  and  in  the  City.  'Tis  said  Mr. 
Barwell  is  in  a  great  measure  ruined,  and  that  the  sum 
you  and  others  have  won  of  him  is  immense.  This 
affair,  I  am  sorry  to  tell  you,  has  totally  locked  up  the 
minister's  mouth  to  me  concerning  you,  and  the  Directors 
and  the  City  are  by  no  means  kind  to  you  on  the  occasion. 
For  God's  sake,'  adds  Godfrey  on  the  same  count,  '  since 
you  have  incurred  the  censure  of  the  world,  keep  the 
money  to  console  you  in  your  afflictions.' 


1776J  WINNINGS  AT  WHIST.  69 

These  letters  were  crossed  by  one  from  him  to  Godfrey, 
which  gives  the  corrected  account  of  the  transaction : — 

Calcutta,  September  16,  1776. 

My  dear  Godfrey, — I  enclose  you  an  order  for  a  part  of  the  produce 
ofa  small  parcel  of  pearl.  AskMr.  Chandler  ifhe  received  the  original. 
If  he  has,  burn  this  order.  If  not,  let  him  present  it.  It  is  but  for 
a  few  hundred  pounds.  Ton  must  know,  my  friend,  that,  on  one 
blessed  day  of  the  present  year  of  our  Lord,  I  had  won  about  twenty 
thousand  pounds  at  whist.  It  is  reduced  to  about  twelve,  and  I 
now  never  play,  but  for  trifles,  and  that  only  once  a  week.  Keep 
all  this  to  yourself. 

I  approve  much  of  your  idea  of  Harrow  for  my  son.  I  hear  a 
great  account  of  the  master,  but  that  his  school  and  house  are  too 
much  crowded.  I  protest  against  Westminster  or  Eton.  What  I 
wish  is,  that  when  you  have  determined  upon  the  public  school,  he 
and  young  Olive  might  go  together  and  have  a  tutor  with  them. 
If  a  proper  man  can  be  found,  I  shall  not  regard  the  expense. 

Wherever  he  goes,  I  insist  on  his  constantly  lying  alone.  His 
learning  may  take  its  fate.  He  will  always  have  enough  for  an 
hones  b  man.  But  his  health  and  morals  require  all  our  care.  Ton 
know  all  my  ideas  on  this  subject,  and  I  hereby  give  you  full  power 
to  act  as  you  think  proper.  I  do  not  myself  see  the  necessity  of 
removing  him  from  Ribouville  before  the  age  of  ten;  but  if  you  do, 
I  agree  to  it  implicitly.     .     .     . 

Whenever  I  am  worth  a  clear  entire  sum  of  forty  thousand  pounds 
secure  in  England,  Bengal  may  take  care  of  itself.  No,  not  for  that 
fortune  would  I  spend  the  same  two  years  again.  Since  writing 
thus  far  we  have  advice  from  Madras  of  Lord  Pigott's  deposition 
and  imprisonment.  He  was  caught  like  a  canary  bird  by  Colonel 
Stewart,  and  there  he  may  whistle. 

It  indicates  the  want  of  dehcacy  in  matters  of  moral 
sentiment  which  certainly  characterised  Francis  in  some 
respects,  that  his  recommendation  to  look  closely  after 
the  training  of  his  only  boy  in  heart  and  head,  should 
be  addressed  to  Godfrey,  a  man  of  the  world  of  the 
coarsest  description,  as  his  correspondence  abundantly 
shows.    Young  Phihp  was  finally  sent  to  Harrow  in  1780. 

To  complete  the  subject  of  Francis's  extraordinary 
successes  at  whist,  it  may  here  be  added  that  in  a  letter 


70  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

to  D'Oyly  at  a  later  period,  deprecating  the  censure  which 
his  gambling  propensities  had  brought  on  him,  he  esti- 
mates Barwell's  whole  losses  at  three  lacs  (30,000Z.),  of 
which,  he  says,  Judge  Lemaistre  and  Colonel  Leslie  had 
a  share.  As  for  himself  he  says,  '  it  was  an  accidental 
burst,  which  lasted  but  for  a  few  weeks,'  and  excuses 
himself  on  the  ground  of  having  been  drawn  to  the 
gambling  table  by  a  violent  fit  of  low  spirits  and  me- 
lancholy, such  as,  he  says,  D'Oyly  had  seen  him  in  before 
at  the  period  of  Calcraft's  death. 

To  return  to  the  course  of  public  affairs.  Early  in 
1776,  Francis  had  despatched  to  England  the  result  on 
which  he  most  prided  himself  of  the  application  of  his 
mind  to  the  details  of  Indian  administration  ;  his  scheme 
for  a  perpetual,  or  '  zemindary,'  settlement  of  the  land 
of  Bengal  for  revenue  purposes.  The  '  five  years'  settle- 
ment,' devised  by  Hastings,  was  about  to  end  in  1777  ; 
and  some  definitive  regulation  was  absolutely  called  for. 
Hastings  advised  its  renewal ;  and  the  two  rival  schemes 
were  soon  laid  in  competition  before  the  Court  of  Di- 
rectors. Their  decision,  not  received  at  Calcutta  until 
near  the  termination  of  the  five  years,  was  in  favour  of 
neither ;  but  evaded  the  main  question  by  a  series  of 
temporary  measures.  It  remained  for  Lord  Cornwallis  to 
carry  into  execution  the  great  project  which  bears  his 
name,  but  to  the  credit  of  which,  or  at  least  of  its  first 
promulgation,  Francis  seems  indisputably  entitled. 

To  whom  the  following  alarming  summary  of  events 
was  addressed  by  Francis,  I  am  not  sure,  the  super- 
scription of  the  copy  letter  being  lost ;  but  apparently  to 
Fowke  at  Benares  : — 

Calcutta,  September  10,  1776. 
The  news  from  Madras  is  portentous  (here  follows  an  account  of 
the  seizure  and  imprisonment  of  Lord  Pigott  by  Colonel  Stuart, 
under  circumstances  familiar  to  readers  of  Indian  history).     The 


1776]  ILLNESS  OF  MONSON.  71 

devil  dances  in  all  quarters.  The  French  are  gathering  a  force  in 
India,  and  we  have  lately  had  a  desperate  quarrel  with  Mens. 
Chevalier.  A  war  with  the  Mahrattas  on  the  Malabar  coast  is  not 
improbable,'  considering  all  circumstances.  In  the  newspapers  it 
is  asserted  that  the  execution  of  Nunoomar  filled  the  hearts  of  all 
honest  men  with  joy  :  that  addresses  of  thanks  and  applause  poured 
in  upon  Mr.  Hastings  :  and  that  the  new  councillors  have  seen  their 
error !  Col.  Monson,  I  hear,  intends  a  trip  to  sea.  The  General  is 
actually  covered  with  boils,  and  has  suffered  great  misery,  but  I 
believe  the  worst  is  over. 

Towards  the  close  of  September,  1776,  tlie  health  of 
Colonel  Monson  gave  way.  The  vacation  of  his  office 
would  unavoidably  leave  Hastings  and  Barwell  in  oppo- 
sition to  Clavering  and  Prancis,  but  with  the  advantage  of 
the  Governor-General's  casting  vote,  until  this  provisional 
state  of  things  were  terminated  by  orders  from  home ; 
which,  however,  were  by  this  time  eagerly  expected ; 
news  of  strong  dissension,  in  May,  at  Leadenhall  Street, 
on  the  subject  of  the  steps  to  be  taken  to  reconstitute 
the  council  having  been  already  received.  Francis  was 
now  doubly  alarmed.  The  loss  of  Monson  would  place 
him  in  the  minority.  But  orders  from  home  dismissing 
Hastings,  and  appointing  Clavering  to  succeed  him,  would 
have  been  evidently  as  unacceptable.  Clavering's  arro- 
gance of  temper,  and  weakness  of  judgment,  had  no 
doubt  undergone  no  improvement  under  the  climate  of 
India,  and  the  polemics  of  the  Council  Board.  StiU,  I 
have  not  ascertained  from  the  papers  before  me  any 
substantial  cause  for  the  vehement  hostility  with  which 
Francis,  his  ally  in  pubhc,  by  this  time  regarded  him. 

To  Mr.  D'Oyly. 

September  13,  1856. 

.     .     .     .     You  know  how  I  think  and  how  T  feel  about . 

That  domvnion  would  he  msupportahh.     Hereafter  you  shall  know 
the  truth.     I  have  been  ridden  long  enough  over  hedge  and  ditch, 

'  This  prediction  soon  came  true. 


72  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

and  can  endure  it  no  longer.  The  ballot  of  May  17',  and  Colonel 
Monson's  resignation,^  furnisli  me  ■witli  very  sufficient  reasons  for 
retiring.  My  conduct  shall  be  steady,  moderate,  firm,  and  consis- 
tent. As  for  violence,  I  leave  it  to  those  who  have  a  prospect  of 
profiting  by  it.     In  one  word,  it  is  not  in  the  nature  of  things  that 

I  can  continue  to  act  with ,  and  you  might  as  well  hang  me  at 

once  as  make  Mm,  Oovernor.  That  event,  however,  seems  for  the 
present  out  of  the  question.  Hastings  is  determined  to  stand  his 
ground ;  because  there  is  no  safety  in  quitting  it.  Harwell  affects 
to  be  highly  disgusted  at  the  resolution  of  the  Directors  to  remove 
him,  and  talks  of  going  to  England.  His  private  affairs  here  are 
very  much  embarrassed,  and  he  considers  the  above  resolution  as  a 
bill  of  exclusion  from  the  government.  In  short,  we  are  all  in 
a  strange  situation,  but  personally  to  me  not  disadvantageous. 
Clavering  is  outrageous  at  iny  withdrawing  from  the  battle  and  for 
a  very  good  reason.  It  lowers  Ms  consequence,  and  deprives  him  of 
absolide  power,  with  which  no  m,an,  in  m,y  opinion,  is  less  fit  to  be 
trusted,  or  less  qualified  to  malce  use. 

I  shall  take  your  advice  and  never  think  of  England  without  an 
independent  fortune.  Considering  the  distracted  state  of  affairs  at 
home,  perhaps  it  is  all  in  my  favour  to  be  stationed  at  such  a 
distance. 

In  a  few  days  more,  Francis  writes  to  the  same  friend 
(September  26,  1776) :— '  The  death  of  Colonel  Monson, 
which  happened  last  night,  leaves  General  Clavering  and 
me,  and  all  our  friends,  at  the  mercy  of  H.  and  B.  ;  judge 
what  quarter  we  are  to  expect  from  them.'  Hastings,  by 
the  very  same  mail,  writes  to  England  :  '  Having  gone 
through  two  years  of  persecution,  I  am  determined  that 
no  authority  less  than  the  king's  express  act  shall  remove 

•  On  May  8,  1776,  a  motion  had  been  canied  in  the  Court  of  Directors  at 
the  East  India  House,  for  an  address  to  the  King  praying  the  removal  of 
Hastings  and  Barwell  from  office.  In  a  General  Court,  held  on  the  16th,  a 
motion  for  recommending  the  Directors  to  reconsider  this  resolution  had 
been  carried  on  ballot  by  a  majority  of  106.  Ministers  are  said  to  have  used 
their  influence  against  Hastings. 

^  From  an  entry  in  an  Indian  journal  of  Francis  (post,  110),  it  would  seem 
that  both  Clavering  and  Monson  wrote  this  month  to  England  tendering 
their  resignations,  probably  on  the  ground  of  health;  but  the  first  in 
private,  the  second  after  considting  his  colleagues. 


1776]  HASTINGS  COMMANDS  THE  COUNCIL.  73 

me,  or  death.  I  have  abeady  drawn  the  line  of  my 
conduct,  with  the  concurrent  opinion  and  advice  of  Mr. 
Barwell  and  Sir  Ehjah  Impey,  and  have  written  to  Lord 
North  to  inform  him  of  it.' 

Hastings  was  not  the  man  to  neglect  an  opportunity. 
While  .awaiting  the  vessel  from  England,  which  must 
bring  the  news  of  his  dismissal  or  of  his  triumph,  he  im- 
mediately set  to  work  to  use  the  majority  which  he  had 
now  acquired.  Middleton  was  immediately  sent  back  to 
Oude,  and  Francis's  protege,  Bristow,  superseded.  '  Many 
circumstances  concur  to  render  this  pohtically  necessary,' 
he  writes  to  Alexander  Eliot,  '  and  many  require  the  sus- 
pension of  it.  One,  of  much  weight,  is  the  present  un- 
certainty of  my  own  fate  ;  but  the  greatest  is  that  which 
I  first  alluded  to.     Erancis  dreads  it  worse  than  death.' 

It  was  done,  however,  and  the  recall  of  Francis  Eowke 
from  Benares  followed  shortly  after.  '  The  movements 
of  this  man  of  levity  (Francis),'  Hastings  says  in  the  same 
letter,  are  difficult  to  foresee  or  comprehend.  His  interest 
is  the  only  steady  principle  in  his  composition,  and  operates 
in  him  as  powerfully  as  in  any  man  I  ever  knew  ;  yet 
even  this  cannot  always  concentrate  him,  but  by  fits  he 
flies  off"  from  it. 

'  I  have  wished,  and  Mr.  Barwell  has  been  equally  de- 
sirous, to  gain  his  concurrence  in  pubhc  measures,  not 
only  for  the  sake  of  quiet,  but  for  the  more  quiet  despatch 
of  business.  He,  too,  has  appeared  equally  solicitous  for 
such  an  accommodation.  For  some  time  past  he  has 
quietly  concurred  in  all  points  of  mere  current  business, 
and  but  faintly  opposed  such  as  were  of  magnitude  suf- 
ficient to  attract  public  notice,  or  were  of  a  nature  to 
excite  the  bitter  spirit  of  the  general ;  that  is,  he  assents 
to  measures  of  no  consequence,  concurs  in  appointments 
proposed  by  me  of  persons  whom  he  wishes  to  serve,  and 


74        •  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  ^RA^TCIS.  [1776 

in  all  matters  of  importance  either  opposes  in  mild  lan- 
guage or  acquiesces  with  reservation  intended  to  exempt 
him  from  a  share  in  the  responsibility.  This  temporising 
conduct  he  calls  moderation,  and  makes  a  merit  of  it ; 
yet,  such  as  it  is,  I  would  avail  myself  of  it  if  I  could, 
having  too  much  at  stake  to  hazard  by  contending  with  a 
man  whose  character  I  despise,  and  whose  friendship  and 
enmity  I  should  view  with  equal  indifference  under  any 
other  circumstances.'  '  I  could  if  I  pleased,'  he  writes  at 
the  same  time  to  another  friend,  John  Stewart,  '  change 
every  part  of  the  present  system,  and  make  my  continu- 
ance in  the  government  necessary  almost  to  its  existence ; 
but  I  would  not  wish  to  hold  it  on  such  terms,  nor  indeed 
do  I  think  such  a  policy  very  necessary ;  for  it  must  be 
very  apparent,  and  universally  seen,  by  this  time,  that 
General  Clavering  is  not  qualified  to  hold  the  reins  of  a 
government  like  this,  if  vexation  does  not  kill  him  before 
they  can  be  put  into  his  hands.  As  to  Francis,  like  your 
gunpowder,  he  is  not  worth  wasting  words  about.'  ^ 

Francis  (by  the  same  mail)  to  Doyly. 

November  26,  1776. 
If  Mr.  Hastings  is  to  be  continued  in  this  government,  General 
Clavering  cannot  stay  here,  and  I  ought  not.  If  I  could  hope  that 
the  minister,  or  anybody  else,  would  listen  to  my  opinion,  and 
you  may  assure  those  whom,  it  may  concern  from  me  that  they 
cannot  take  a  m.ore  fatal  step  than  that  by  filKng  up  Colonel 
Monson's  place  with  an  Indian,  or  any  man  connected  with  India. 
Wbat  they  call  local  knowledge  is  nothing  but  tyranny  and  pros- 
titution.    But  this  is  not  enough.     A  majority  against  a  governor 


'  Gleig's  'Memoirs  of  Warren  Hastings,'  ii.  144,  &c.  The  difference 
between  Francis  and  Hastings  is  fairly  stated  in  the  Essay  on  the  '  History 
and  Discovery  of  Junius.'  Ostensibly,  they  were  mainly  divided  on  the  two 
great  lines  of  Indian  policy :  the  one,  expediency,  which  Hastings  patronised 
as  most  conducive  to  individual  and  territorial  aggrandisement ;  the  other, 
the  immutable  principles  of  right  and  justice,  which  Francis  advocated  as 
the  true  principles  of  government.' — Bohn'a  Junius,  ii.  1, 


1776]  DEATH  OF  MACRABIE.  75 

may  prevent  Ms  acting,  but  they  cannot  act  ttemselves.  Tlie  situ- 
ation of  the  country  demands  instant  arrangements  for  its  recovery ; 
and  by  all  that  is  just,  I  see  only  one  which  can  save  it.  K  it  be 
possible,  discover  whether  anything  or  nothing  is  likely  to  be  done. 
To  stay  here  with  Hastings  and  Harwell  beyond  another  year  is 
insupportable ;  or  is  it  possible  they  can  be  so  unjust  as  to  leave  me 
in  this  odious  situation  ?  Can  any  man,  who  is  my  friend,  desire 
it?  As  to  continuing  an  incessant  battle  with  H.,  I  will  not  do  it. 
When  a  great  and  important  occasion,  such  as  that  on  which  I  now 
write  to  Mr.  ElUs,  requires  it,  I  meet  him  in  part,  and,  I  hope, 
maintain  my  ground  with  dignity.  But  everlasting  squabbles  are 
equally  disgraceful  and  useless.  They  know  the  man  sufficiently 
by  this  time,  and  ought  to  act  upon  that  knowledge.  Hastings  is 
actually  in  possession  of  full  power,  and  drives  furiously.  I  do 
what  I  can  to  keep  Harwell  in  order  merely  to  save  a  few  indivi- 
duals whose  existence  depends  on  me. 

The  climate  of  India  was  now  to  claim  further  victims 
among  Francis's  fellowship.  His  private  secretary,  and 
most  intimate  of  friends,  Alexander  Macrabie,  sickened 
in  August  1776,  and  was  forced  to  leave  Calcutta  on  the 
precarious  chance  of  recovering  health  by  a  sea  voyage. 
He  had  just  received  the  appointment  of  a  writership 
from  home,  after  assiduous  efforts  on  the  part  of  Francis 
to  obtain  it.  He  grew  worse  ;  and  landed  at  Ganjam  on 
the  coast  of  Orissa,  a  spot  then  regarded  as  comparatively 
salubrious.  There  he  hngered  two  or  three  months,  and 
died  in  November.  The  loss  of  this  clever,  lively,  un- 
selfish, and  most  attached  dependent  evidently  afiected 
Francis  very  deeply.  There  is  something  very  touching 
in  Macrabie's  numerous  letters  to  his  chief  during  this 
absence,  which  Francis  had  preserved,  addressed  to  his 
'  dearest  and  best  friend,'  wishing  him  once  more  all 
happiness,  and  assuring  him,  '  sick  or  well,  I  am  yours 
with  the  truest  afiection.'  He  seems  not  only  to  have 
loved  his  brother-in-law  as  a  friend,  but  to  have  wor- 
shipped him  almost  as  an  idol.  '  I  need  not  dwell 
on  this  melancholy  subject,'  writes  Francis  to  Chandler ; 


76  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1776 

'your  own  feelings  will  give  you  the  best  idea  of  the 
affliction  that  has  fallen  upon  me.  But  who  will  com- 
municate the  fatal  intelligence  to  his  unhappy  sister  !  I 
sent  a  letter  by  the  way  of  Suez,  lately,  to  Mr.  Godfrey, 
which  I  hope  will  have  prepared  her  mind  for  the 
worst  news ;  if  not,  I  must  solicit  the  kind  offices  of 
Mrs.  Chandler  to  break  it  to  her,  in  what  terms  I  know 
not.' 

The  records  of  the  year  may  be  finished  with  a  few 
caustic  lines  from  Sir  E.  Impey  to  his  old  western 
circuit  friend  Dunning.  Impey  by  this  time  detested 
Francis,  with  a  hatred  most  cordially  returned  by  the 
latter  : — 

Dear  Dunning, — Clavering's  very  severe  illness  has  shattered  his 
constitution  and  hurried  him  into  old  age.  .  .  His  body  is  emaciated, 
his  strength  is  vanished,  and  his  spirits  weak.  I  very  much 
apprehend  that  the  effect  of  his  disease  will  prove  mortal  at  no  long 
distance  of  time.  Should  Mr.  Hastings  and  Mr.  Barwell  be 
removed,  Francis  will  be  God  when  the  news  arrives.' 


'  From  the  Impey  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum,  a  curious  and  very  volu- 
minous collection,  fyom  which  the  most  important  portions  appear  to  have 
been  selected  and  employed  by  Mr.  Elijah  Barwell  Impey,  in  his  'Memoirs' 
of  his  father.    ri846.) 


1777]  BETTER  PROSPECTS.  77 


CHAPTEE  II. 

FRANCIS    IN    INDIA. 

[1777-1781.] 

Better  Prospects — Hopes  of  the  Governor-Generalsliip — Character  of 
Hastings  by  Francis — Indian  Journal — Hastings  refuses  to  resign — • 
Decision  of  the  Supreme  Court  hetweeu  him  and  Clavering — Mahratta 
War— Death  of  Clavering — Arrivalof  Wheler — Burke  on  the  Revenue 
Settlement — Affair  of  the  Grands — Arrival  of  Sir  Eyre  Coote — 
Temporary  accommodation  with  Hastings — Rupture — Duel  between 
Francis  and  Hastings — Return  to  England. 

The  year  1777  found  Francis  in  a  position  by  no  means 
such  as  his  sanguine  temper  had  anticipated  :  condemned 
to  a  permanent  minority  in  the  council  by  the  casting- 
vote  of  his  rival  Hastings,  his  plans  discountenanced,  his 
friends  neglected,  and  maintaining  his  ground  only  in 
combination  with  Clavering,  whom  in  his  heart  he  re- 
garded, as  we  have  seen,  with  as  much  aversion  as  he  did 
Hastings  himself,  and  with  far  less  respect  for  his  abilities. 
Nevertheless,  we  see  him  recovered,  to  a  considerable 
extent,  from  the  state  of  fierce  discontent  in  which  he  has 
hitherto  exhibited  himself.  His  health  was  established. 
After  some  slight  attacks  of  illness,  his  admirable  consti- 
tution, which  had  resisted  the  utmost  strain  of  intellectual 
occupation,  seemed  equally  proof  against  the  chmate  of 
Bengal,  which  was  claiming  its  victims  all  around  him. 
The  following  little  memorandum,  headed  'Dates  of 
Facts,'  inscribed  by  Francis  himself  in  one  of  his  journals, 
gives  the  melancholy  record  of  the  mortality  which  took 
place  in  his  ckcle. 


78  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

Dates  of  Facts. 

1776,  Feb.   V7. — Lady  Anne  Monson  died  at  Calcutta. 
„       Sept.  25. — Colonel  Monson  at  Hnghley. 

„  Nov.   29. — Mr.  Alexander  Macrabie  at  Ganjam. 

1777,  Aug.     1. — Mr.  Hastings  marries  Mrs.  Imhoff. 
„  Aug.    30. — Sir  Jolin  Clavering  dies  at  Calcutta. 
„  Beo.   11. — Mr.  Wheler  lands  at  Calcutta. 

1778,  July  27.— Mrs.  Wheler  dies. 
„         Nov.    9. — Mrs.  Barwell  dies. 

„       Sept.  12. — Alexander  Elliot  dies  on  his  way  to  Nagpour. 
„         Oot.    4. — Colonel  Leslie  dies  at  Eajegur. 
„         Deo.  11. — Major  Baggs  arrives  at  Calcutta. 
„        Dec.  28. — Sir  Eyre  Coote  arrives  at  Madras. 

1779,  January. — Bombay  army  capitulates  at  LoUdong. 
„     March  22.- — Coote  arrives  at  Calcutta. 

And  it  must  be  remembered  that  at  this  time  a  sojourn 
in  Bengal  involved  exposure  from  which  Englishmen  in 
official  positions  now  shrink  as  absolutely  inconsistent 
with  the  preservation  of  health.  There  were  no  '  hills  ' 
in  those  days — no  occasional  returns  to  Europe,  or  even 
the  Cape,  to  invigorate  the  constitution.  The  only  re- 
source for  the  sick — wretched  enough — ^was  a  trip  to  sea. 
Francis  never  availed  himself  of  this,  or  any  other,  relax- 
ation from  his  duties.  He  rarely  left  Calcutta,  or  his 
bungalow  in  its  vicinity ;  and  never  seems  to  have  gone 
a  hundred  miles  from  it  during  his  five  years'  residence. 
He  appears  to  have  had  no  taste  for  the  ordinary  attractions 
of  travelling ;  no  kind  of  curiosity.  In  the  numerous  folios 
of  his  Indian  correspondence,  I  have  scarcely  noticed  a 
single  observation  on  places  or  on  scenery,  and  but 
few  on  individuals,  except  such  as  were  brought  into 
official  or  social  contact  with  himself.  Business  was  his 
passion — his  recreations,  hterature  and  the  card-table ; 
not  without  a  certain  Uking  for  the  gossip  of  society. 

But,  besides  the  inspiriting  consciousness  of  health, 
Francis  was  now  enjoying  the  actual  realisation  of  what 


1777]  HOPES  OF  GOVERNOE-GENERALSmP.  79 

he  had  hitherto  only  dreamt  of,  with  all  the  eagerness  of 
a  needy  man,  with  no  secure  means  and  a  large  family. 
He  had  achieved  the  object  of  making  his  fortune ;  a 
moderate  fortune  enough,  but  sufficient  for  the  ideas  of 
one  whose  dreams  were  of  ambition,  not  of  luxury.  He 
had  won  twelve  or  fourteen  thousand  pounds  at  whist, 
and  then,  apparently,  desisted  from  high  play.  He  was 
saving  out  of  his  salary.  Whether  he  had  other  means 
of  increasing  his  gains,  it  is  not  possible  to  say ;  but  no 
charge  of  corruption  stands  on  record  against  him. 

As  to  his  political  prospects,  moreover,  his  hopes  were 
constantly  fed  by  advices  from  England.  It  was  pretty 
clear  by  this  time  that  Lord  North  was  either  playing  a 
double  game,  or  (which  is  no  doubt  the  juster  interpre- 
tation) that  in  the  absorbing  whirl  of  the  unhappy 
American  business,  he  took  little  interest  in  India,  and 
wavered  between  his  early  prepossessions  against  the 
Bengal  Government  and  the  strong  pressure  brought  to 
bear  on  him  by  the  friends  of  that  Government  in  Parlia- 
ment and  in  Leadenhall  Street.  Nevertheless,  the  odds 
seemed  at  this  time,  to  Francis  at  least,  greatly  against 
Hastings  ;  and  he  wrought  on  in  the  conviction  that  his 
enemy  would  be  recalled,  that  Clavering  was  incapable  of 
taking  his  place,  and  that  he  was  himself  the  destined 
Governor-General.  'My  health,'  he  says  to  D'Oyly  in 
February,  1777,  '  is  perfectly  established,  my  spirits  high, 
and  my  resolution  unshaken ;  and  with  good  manage- 
ment I  am  a  match  for  the  climate.'  ^ 


'  In  the  same  letter  he  gives  his  friend  a  very  terse  account  of  the  system 
of  government  in  Bengal.  '  The  Company  dispoaseas  the  Suhahdar,  and 
assume  the  management  of  the  country  by  mere  force.  They  collect  the 
revenues  as  Government.  They  raise  them  to  the  level  of  the  rents  of  the 
country,  or  as  near  it  as  possible,  in  the  pretended  quality  of  proportion. 
They  then  engross  the  produce  as  merchants,  and  force  the  manufacturers  to 
labour  for  them  alone  as  masters.' 


80  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

To  Godfrey,  in  the  same  spirit,  a  few  months  later : 

ETerytting  on  this  side  looks  prosperously  for  me,  and  I  have 
written  stoutly  hence,  and  directly  to  the  minister  himself,  that  he 
may  as  -well  dismiss  as  supersede  me.  Sur  cet  article,  je  n'entends 
pas  raison.  Fortune,  and  my  own  industry,  have  placed  me,  in 
every  sense,  above  them.  Bnfin,  mon  ami,  je  me  moque  de  tout 
le  monde.  No  man  ever  stood  on  firmer  ground,  or  in  a  pleasanter 
situation.  There  is  now  sufficient  room  for  hope,  and  nothing  to 
fear. 

Thus  far  all  was  well ;  but  Francis  still  miscalculated 
the  power  of  his  great  adversary.  He  neither  estimated 
aright  the  mental  vigour  and  resources  of  Hastings,  nor 
the  strength  of  his  adherents.  On  the  whole,  the  two 
rivals  were  not  so  unequally  matched  as  might  at  first 
appear.  Hastings  was  greatly  superior  in  the  habit  of 
administration,  which  the  other  did  not  possess.  His 
long  experience  in  India,  the  strength  which  in  Oriental 
countries  belongs  to  the  '  powers  that  be,'  and  the  ad- 
vantage of  the  twelve  months  which  must  intervene  be- 
tween a  despatch  to  England  and  the  arrival  of  the  answer, 
were  much  on  his  side.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  Francis 
was  a  man  of  high  ability :  resolute,  and  scarcely  more 
scrupulous  than  Hastings  himself ;  and  he  had,  to  back 
him,  the  general  English  feeling  of  dissatisfaction  with  the 
internal  government  of  India,  and  deep  indignation  at  its 
iniquities  towards  native  states,  which  "had  not  as  yet 
subsided.  The  struggle  was  a  severe  one ;  but  Hastings 
was,  in  reahty,  the  stronger  athlete  of  the  two.  The 
following  very  remarkable  passage  of  a  letter  from  Francis 
to  General  Eraser  (written  at  a  later  period,  November, 
1779)  gives  the  portrait  of  the  great  governor,  drawn  by 
a  most  powerful  painter,  who  yet  seems  scarcely  able  to 
appreciate  the  force  of  the  character  which  he  draws  : — 

The  qualification  commonly  called  '  parts,'  is  in  general  too 
dangerous  to  be  trusted  iu  the  management  of  public  afiairs.     It 


1777]  CHARACTER  OF  HASTINGS.  81 

requires  firmness,  integrity,  and  good  sense,  and  it  requires  notliing 
else.  Mr.  Hastings  is,  literally  and  exclusively,  a  man  of  parts. 
There  is  not  a  single  principle,  moral  or  political,  either  in  his  head 
or  his  heart.  One  natural  effect  of  this  character  is  that,  when  he 
means  best,  he  constantly  begins  his  building  at  the  top,  or  -with 
some  room  that  has  an  agreeable  prospect,  and  never  thinks  of  a 
foundation  till  the  whole  edifice  falls  to  pieces  for  want  of  it. 
Another  is,  that  he  is  uncommonly  dexterous  at  extricating  himself 
out  of  difficulties,  which  with  a  very  moderate  portion  of  common 
sense,  and  the  tenth  part  of  his  microscopic  sagacity,  he  might 
have  averted.  I  am.  not  sure  that  his  vanity  is  not  concerned  in 
preferring  the  intricacy  of  a  labyrinth  to  any  plain  road  on  which 
he  must  travel  with  the  multitude.'  '  I  detest  general  principles  ' 
is  a  common  expression  with  him 

Since  I  have  gone  so  far,  let  me  tell  you  a  story  in  point.  I 
happened  to  sup  with  him  not  long  ago,  when  the  conversation 
turned  upon  Robinson  Crusoe.  Everybody  present  gave  their  opinion 
of  the  book,  of  course  without  reflection.  While  the  rest  of  the 
company  were  talking,  Mr.  Hastings  seemed  lost  in  a  reverie,  in 
which  I  httle  suspected  that  Robinson  Crusoe  could  be  concerned. 
At  last  he  gravely  declared,  that  he  had  often  read  the  book  with 
singular  satisfaction ;  but  that  no  passage  in  it  had  ever  struck  him 
so  much,  as  where  the  hero  is  said  to  have  built  a  monstrous  boat  at 
a  distance  from  the  sea,  without  knowing  by  what  means  he  was  to 
convey  it  to  the  water.  'And  by  Jove,'  says  Hastings,  'the  same 
thing  has  happened  to  myself  an  hundred  times  in  my  life.  I  have 
built  the  boat  without  any  farther  consideration,  and  when  difficul- 
ties and  consequences  have  been  urged  against  it,  have  been  too 
ready  to  answer  them  by  saying  to  myself:  "  Let  me  finish  the  boat 
first,  and  then,  I'll  warrant,  I  shall  find  some  method  to  launch  it." ' 
This  is  the  man's  own  political  picture  drawn  by  himself.  I  presume 
you  may  take  his  own  word  for  the  truth  of  it.' 

MarcH,  1777. 

My  dearest  Wife, — My  last  was  by  the  London,  which  sailed  about 
a  fortnight  ago.  Since  that  we  have  been  tolerably  quiet,  and 
expect  to  continue  so  till  the  arrival  of  advices  from  England.  As 
for  myself,  I  am  truly  anxious  about  nothing  but  the  welfare  of  my 

'  '  What  to  do,  I  know  not/  writes  Hastings,  in  1778,  respecting  certain 
conduct  of  the  Bombay  Government,  which  had  dejoue  some  of  his  plans 
formed  in  this  daring  manner.  '  I  feel  myself  on  this  occasion  as  I  have  often 
done  at  chess,  when  my  adversary,  by  giving  his  tower  the  oblique  move- 
ment of  a  knight  (he  alludes,  I  suppose,  to  the  Indian  game),  has  placed  the 
game  in  a  position  for  which  I  made  no  provision.' 
VOL.  II.  (J 


82  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

family  and  friends.  Political  events  cannot  reacli  or  affect  me.  By 
this  or  the  next  ship  I  shall  make  an  additional  remittance  to  Mr. 
Chandler  of  3,200L  Besides  that,  I  am  really  an  economist.  Fortune 
has  taken  extraordinary  care  of  me,  and  I  am  much  her  humble 
servant.  She  was  certainly  in  my  debt,  if  it  be  considered  how 
many  years  you  and  I  lived  upon  little  or  nothing.  If  there  were 
peace  in  America,  all  would  be  well.  By  Captain  Carr  I  sent  you 
a  pearl  necklace.  I  should  probably  have  done  much  better  in 
sending  you  the  money  it  cost,  and  so  left  you  to  please  yourself. 
To  make  up  for  that  mistake,  you  will  find  yourself  authorised  by 
the  enclosed  letter  to  Mr.  Godfrey  to  employ  500L  in  diamond  ear- 
rings, or  any  other  jewelry  you  may  think  fit. 

To  D'Oijly. 

March  29,  1777. 

In  general,  I  can  only  tell  you  that  everything  here  is  going  from 
worse  to  worst.  Our  broils  in  council  have  revived  with  redoubled 
bitterness  and  fury,  particularly  between  Hastings  and  the  General. 
I  keep  as  clear  as  I  can  of  these  odious,  unprofitable  contentions ; 
but  how  is  it  possible  to  be  surrounded  with  combustibles,  and 
never  to  take  fire.  The  Governor  is  not  content  with  the  possession 
of  absolute  power,  but  exercises  it  in  the  most  arbitrary  manner,  and 
frequently  for  no  purpose,  that  I  can  discover,  but  mere  vanity  and 
ostentation.  Setting  aside  his  morality,  you  may  rely  upon  my  ex- 
perienced and  deliberate  judgment  of  him,  that  he  is  a  busy,  pro- 
jecting, intricate  politician  of  the  lowest  order,  and  that  it  is  not  in 
his  nature  to  walk  strait.  Oar  time  is  now  chiefly  employed  in 
doing  jobs  of  all  sorts,  and  giving  away  the  Company's  money  by 
wholesale.  These  are  liberal  times,  when  every  man,  who  will  sell 
himself,  may  have  his  price.  It  brings  to  my  mind  the  state  of  the 
French  government,  soon  after  the  death  of  Harry  the  Fourth,  when, 
as  Sully  tells  us  :  '  Prepared  as  I  was  for  irregular  proceedings,  I 
could  not  without  extreme  surprise  see  that  scarcely  any  business 
was  transacted  in  the  council  but  what  related  to  gifts  to  the 
nobles — to  augmentations  of  the  pensions  to  persons  in  ofl&ce — the 
paying  of  debts  which  had  been  abolished — the  abatement  of  farms 
and  discharges  of  the  farmers,  and  revocations  of  the  contracts 
made  for  the  rents ; — creation  of  new  offices — exemptions  and 
privileges — in  a  word,  a  thousand  schemes  to  render  the  people 
miserable.' 

In  April,  1777,  Francis  commenced  a  regular  '  Journal,' 
which  he  thenceforward  kept  to  the  end  of  his  stay  in 


1777]  JOURNAL  IN  INDIA.  83 

India :  marking  every  day,  whether  signaHsed  by  any 
event  or  not,  with  scrupulous  minuteness.  Large  portions 
are  in  his  own  best  clerical  hand — especially  where 
there  was  anything  confidential  to  record:  the  re- 
mainder in  that  of  one  or  more  amanuenses.  It  con- 
tains the  note  of  daily  proceedings  at  the  council  board, 
and  of  public  occurrences  in  general :  together  with  that 
of  his  private  occupations  and  amusements  of  every  day  ; 
and,  constantly  and  freely,  of  his  personal  feehngs  and 
thoughts,  and  his  contemptuous  or  hostile  remarks  on 
others.  And  yet — with  the  same  curious  mixture  of  out- 
spokenness and  reticence  which  characterises  the  record 
he  has  left  of  himself  during  the  '  anonymous  '  portion  of 
his  life — he  has  passed  over  slightly,  or  without  mention, 
some  of  the  most  critical  occurrences  of  his  career  in 
India. 

I  shall  proceed  to  use  this  journal,  by  means  of  extracts, 
for  the  account  of  the  rest  of  that  part  of  his  life.  The 
chronicle  which  it  contains  of  public  events  may  be  ex- 
tremely valuable  to  some  future  historian  of  British  India, 
but  must  be  passed  over  here  except  so  far  as  a  memoir 
may  seem  to  require.  I  shall  continue  to  insert  such 
letters  or  extracts  of  letters  as  bear  on  the  subject,  in 
their  places,  in  order  of  date.  And  in  printing  letters 
addressed  to  him  from  England — having  only  a  choice  of 
difficulties,  in  respect  of  making  the  dates  fit — I  propose 
to  arrange  them  a-ccording  to  date  of  receipt,  that  is,  on 
the  average,  five  or  six  months  after  date  of  writing.  This 
will  enable  the  reader  to  trace  the  impressions  actually 
present  in  Francis's  mind  when  he  made  the  corre- 
sponding entries  in  his  journal,  or  answered  the  letters. 


G    2 


84  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

JOURNAL. 

^  April  8th,  1777. — My  challenge  and  defiance  to  Hast- 
ings and  Barwell  to  arraign  my  conduct  for  not  signing 
the  letters  against  the  Eanny  of  Burdwan. 

'  May  9th. — Set  out  for  Kishnagur  with  Ducarel  and 
Bristow ;  slept  at  Pulta  at  Mr.  Prinsep's. 

'  10th.— At  Mr.  Motte's  at  Hughley  with  Sir  Elijah  and 
Lady  Impey. 

'  11th. — Proceeded  in  the  evening.  .  .  .  Budgerow. 

'  12th. — Budgerow  ....  infernally  hot. 

'  IBth. — Ditto  .  .  .  ditto.  .  .  .  Landed  in  the  afternoon 
at  Nuddea  ;  met  by  the  Eajah's  eldest  son,  with  presents 
of  fruit,  &c. ;  in  palanquins  to  Kishenagur. 

'  Uth. — Well  entertained  by  Mr.  Shore,  but  im- 
moderately hot. 

'15iA. — Ditto.  Visit  from  the  old  Eajah,  which  I 
returned,  and  saw  an  immense  palace  in  ruins,  and  the 
prince  of  the  country,  a  venerable  old  man,  lodged  in 
one  corner  of  it,  in  a  state  of  beggary  and  misery  not 
to  be  believed. 

'  16th. — Set  out  on  horseback  on  our  return  by  the 
way  of  Sooksagur.  Ducarel  thrown  from  his  horse  and 
obliged  to  proceed  in  a  palanquin.  Arrive  at  Croftes's 
at  two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  excessively  tired. 

'17iA. — Dine  with  Croftes  ;  proceed  in  the  budgerow  at 
Hughley,  and  forced  to  sleep  in  it. 

'  ISth. — Breakfast  and  dine  at  Motte's  with  Lady  Impey, 
&c.  Sup  at  Chinsura,  at  Mr.  Eadamacker's,  with  all  the 
Dutch  Factory;  plenty  of  victuals  and  civihty,but  as  dull 
as  Eotterdam :  returned  late  by  myself  to  Pulta,  where  I 
slept. 

'  19th. — Eeturn  to  breakfast  at  Calcutta.  At  council, 
the  Governor's   plan  voted  for  transferring  the   Nabob 


1777]  JOURNAL  IN  INDIA.  85 

of  Oude's  army  to  the  Company's  service.     Strong  minutes 
against  it  by  General  Clavering  and  myself.' 

The  following  (from  Sir  Grey  Cooper,  Lord  North's 
secretary,  received  at  this  time)  communicates  the  view 
of  politics  entertained  just  then  at  head-quarters : — 

Treasury  Chambers,  December  12,  1776. 

Dear  Sir, — This  letter  will,  I  hope,  be  presented  to  you  by  a 
young  man  whom  the  Court  of  Directors  have  on  my  recommend- 
ation appointed  to  a  writership  in  Bengal.  His  name  is  WyclifFe  ; 
he  is  a  cadet  of  a  very  good  gentleman's  family  near  Richmond  in 
Torkshire,  and  a  near  relation  of  Lady  Cooper.  He  carries  with  him 
a  good  countenance  and  a  modest  demeanour,  and  he  appears  to  me 
to  be  of  a  tractable  and  docile  disposition,  and  of  parts  sufficient  to 
make  a  man  of  business.  I  earnestly  and  anxiously  request  the 
favour  of  you  to  take  him  under  your  protection  and  patronage,  and 
to  put  him  into  a  good  train.  He  is  now  free  from  vices,  and  per- 
fectly well  inclined.  Nothing  but  good  company,  good  advice,  and 
employment  can  keep  him  so.  It  is  certainly  very  difficult  for 
young  flesh  and  blood  to  resist  the  pleasures  and  temptations  with 
which  he  will  be  surrounded.  He  and  those  who  come  out  with 
him,  are,  however,  fortunate  in  one  respect,  they  come  at  a  time 
when,  I  trust,  the  character  of  the  British  Government  in  India  is 
gaining  more  credit  and  respect  every  hour ;  and  when  the  prin- 
ciples and  measures  of  those  who  administer  it  will  give  greater 
power  and  stability  to  that  empire  than  the  most  advantageous 
treaties  with  Subahs  and  Nabobs,  or  the  extirpation  of  all  the 
frontier  nations.  The  proconsulate  of  Cicero  in  Cilicia  did  more 
honour  and  gave  more  strength  to  the  Roman  Republic  in  Asia  than 
the  winning  of  five  great  battles  by  LucuUus  and  Pompey.  Tou 
win  be  happy  to  learn  by  the  despatches  and  private  letters  you 
will  receive  by  the  Egmont,  that  His  Majesty's  arms  have  had  such 
signal  success  in  Canada  and  at  New  York.  The  prospect  in  the 
western  world  is  undoubtedly  fairer  and  clearer  than  it  was ;  but 
clouds  still  hang  round  it,  and  I  shall  be  most  happy  donee  altqiia 
tolerabili  conditione  helln/m  hoc  finitum  videro,  as  Hanno  said  in  the 
senate  of  Carthage. 

D'Oyly,  our  friend,  is  in  good  health,  and  makes  an  admirable 
under-secretary  of  State.  He  probably  writes  to  you  by  this  ship. 
I  shall  be  happy  to  learn  from  your  own  pen  that  you  are  well  and 
happy  ;  and  I  am,  dear  Sir,  with  great  regard  and  esteem,  your  most 
faithful,  humble  servant, 

To  P.  Francis,  Esq.  ^^'^■^  CoOPEE. 


8G  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

Journal. 

'  June  lith. — Eefuse  to  sign  the  order  for  Sliakespear's 
appointment.  General  Clavering  gone  down  to  Budge 
Budge.  At  midnight  receive  a  letter  from  Colonel 
Leslie  that  an  express  was  just  arrived  with  notice  of 
Hastings'  resignation,  and  the  red  ribbon  for  Clavering. 

'  Ihth. — Sunday. — Long  conversation  with  Clavering 
on  the  state  of  affairs  and  future  measures ;  neither  of  us 
have  any  letters :  find  that  a  Scotchman  had  been  sent 
forward  by  Macleane's  contrivance  with  letters  to  Hastings 
and  Barwell,  and  that  Sir  Edward  Vernon  had  facilitated 
this  mancBiivre  by  despatching  the  Cormorant  frigate  be- 
fore him  from  the  Cape. 

'  Vlth. — Barwell  absent.  Hastings  apparently  in  great 
anxiety  and  confusion  ;  alledges  the  news  from  England  as 
a  reason  for  annulling  Sliakespear's  late  appointment.  We 
agree  to  it,  but  refuse  to  restore  him  to  his  seat  at  Dacca.' 

On  June  19th,  occurred  the  event  which,  practically 
and  finally,  decided  the  long-debated  issue  between  the 
Governor-General  and  his  assailants.  A  packet  was  laid 
on  the  council  table  from  the  Court  of  Directors,  con- 
taining their  acceptance  of  Hastings'  resignation,  tendered 
through  his  agent  Colonel  Macleane  in  England,  and  the 
appointment  of  Wheler  (their  own  late  chairman)  to  fill 
his  place ;  while,  by  the  same  mail,  General  Clavering 
was  invested  with  the  Order  of  the  Bath,  in  anticipation 
(as  was  universally  supposed)  of  his  formal  appointment 
as  successor  to  Hastings,  which  step  he  now  provisionally 
gained  as  senior  member  of  council.  The  extraordinary 
occurrences  which  followed  are  recounted  in  every  his- 
tory of  British  India ;  and  may  be  studied,  moreover,  in 
Macaulay's  brilUant  essay,  corrected  to  a  certain  extent  by 
the  correspondence  published  in  Gleig's  '  Life  of  Warreu 


1777]  REFUSAL  OF  HASTINGS  TO  RESIGN.  87 

Hastings,'  and  in  Mr.  Impey's  memoir  of  his  father. 
It  is  not  my  purpose  to  enter  on  them  here.  Suffice 
it  to  say,  that  Hastings  boldly  repudiated  the  authority 
of  his  agent,  which  he  said,  but  did  not  prove,  that  he 
had  countermanded,  and,  therefore,  refused  to  acknow- 
ledge the  acceptance  of  a  resignation  which  he  denied 
himself  to  have  tendered.  Clavering  endeavoured  to 
seize  on  the  supreme  power  by  violence.  '  The  General ' 
(in  Macaulay's  words)  '  sent  for  the  keys  of  the  fort,  and 
of  the  treasury  ;  took  possession  of  the  records,  and  held 
a  council,  at  which  Francis  attended.  Hastings  took  the 
chair  in  another  apartment,  and  Barwell  sate  with  him 
....  It  seemed  that  there  remained  no  way  of  settling 
the  dispute  except  by  an  appeal  to  arms  ;  and  from  such 
an  appeal,  Hastings,  confident  of  his  influence  over  his 
countrymen  in  India,  was  not  incHned  to  shrink.  He 
directed  the  officers  of  the  garrison  of  Fort  William,  and 
of  all  the  neighbouring  stations,  to  obey  no  orders  but 
his.  At  the  same  time,  with  admirable  judgment,  he 
offered  to  submit  the  case  to  the  Supreme  Court,  and  to 
abide  by  its  decision.  .  .  .  Clavering  and  Francis,  after 
some  delay,  unwilhngly  consented  to  abide  the  award  of 
the  court.  The  court  pronounced  that  the  resignation 
was  invalid,  and  that  therefore  Hastings  was  still  Governor  - 
General  under  the  Eegulation  Act ;  and  the  defeated  mem- 
bers of  the  council,  finding  the  sense  of  the  whole  settle- 
ment against  them,  reluctantly  acquiesced  in  this  decision.' 
What  the  judges  appear  to  have  in  truth  decided  was, 
not  that  the  resignation  was  invalid,  but  that  in  truth 
both  resignation  and  acceptance  of  it  were  conditional 
only ;  to  which  the  documents,  fairly  studied,  seem  to  give 
support.''    Hastings  now  carried  in  council  (by  his  casting 

'  See  the  arguments  as  to  the  effect  of  Hastings'  offer  through  Macleane, 
and  the  acceptance  of  it  hy  the  Directors,  stated  in  Thornton's  '  History  of 


88  MEMOIES  OF   SIR  rPHLIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

vote)  a  resolution  that  Clavering  by  his  conduct  had 
vacated  his  seat  as  senior  member  of  council,  and  could 
no  longer  sit  at  the  board  in  any  capacity.  But  here  the 
court  refused  (justly)  to  support  him  ;  and  the  seat  of 
Clavering  remained  undisturbed.  It  must  fairly  be  ad- 
mitted that  the  judges  did  their  best  to  repress  violence 
on  both  sides,  and  maintained  the  authority  of  law,  as 
well  as  saved  the  peace  of  the  settlement. 

Of  this  revolution,  or  rather  averted  revolution,  Francis's 
journal  gives  no  account :  it  may  be  imagined  that  the 
sting  of  failure,  and  the  consciousness  of  having  acted  a 
mistaken  as  well  as  an  unsuccessful  part,  rendered  him 
indisposed  to  dwell  on  it.  He  informs  Welbore  Ellis  and 
D'Oyly  of  it,  but  by  brief  and  hurried  letters  only ;  but 
(as  he  himself  tells  us)  he  composed,  for  General  Clavering, 
the  detailed  account  of  the  catastrophe,  which  the  latter, 
who  was  no  penman,  forwarded  to  Lord  North.  To  the 
same  minister  Francis  addresses  himself  (June  28)  on  the 
subject  of  his  own  personal  position. 

To  Lord  North. 

Calcutta,  June  28,  1777. 

My  Lord, — I  shall  not  presume  to  add  more  ttan  a  very  few 
words,  on  my  own  account,  to  tlie  trouble  and  concern  which 
General  Clavering' s  letters  and  mine  by  this  conveyance  must 
unavoidably  give  you. 

The  idea  of  the  trust  with  which  I  thought  myself  personally 
honoured  by  your  lordship  in  this  appointment,  has  often  given  me 
spirits  and  resolution  when  toil,  anxiety,  and  the  pernicious  quali- 
ties of  this  climate  had  sunk  and  oppressed  me.  That  I  may  cor- 
respond with  that  trust  to  the  last,  I  am  obliged  at  this  distance 


India,'  vol.  ii.  eh.  ix.  The  view  taken  by  Mr.  Thornton  ia,  that  if  Hastinga 
had  actually  '  resigned,'  all  his  acts  subsequently  to  such  resignation  (through 
Macleane)  were  invalid :  if  he  had  not  de  facto  '  resigned  '  when  the  order  of 
the  Directors  arrived,  that  order  did  not  of  itself  effect  a  displacement ;  which 
seems  in  accordance  with  the  opinion  arrived  at  by  the  Supreme  Uourt. 


1777]  STRUGGLE  IN   THE  COUNCIL.  89 

to  suppose  the  possibility  of  an  important  case,  in  whicli  your 
lordship  should  be  apprised  with  certainty  of  my  intentions. 

If  the  conduct  of  Mr.  Hastings  and  Mr.  Barwell  should  be 
condemned,  I  presume  some  more  effectual  measures  Tvill  be 
immediately  taken  to  remove  them.  In  that  case,  I  shall  stand 
next  in  succession  to  the  chair,  and  nothing  but  a  supersession  from 
England  (which  cannot  be  effected  without  a  new  Act  of  Par- 
liament) can  deprive  me  of  it  ia  any  event  that  removes  General 
Clavering. 

If  the  equitable  claims  which  the  order  of  succession  would 
give  me  after  a  service  of  five  years  should  be  outweighed  by  other 
considerations,  of  which  I  do  not  presume  to  judge,  your  lordship 
would  not  have  the  whole  question  before  you,  if  I  did  not  declare 
to  you,  in  the  most  expHcit  manner,  that  supersession  and  dismission 
will  be  to  me  the  same  act  and  operate  at  the  same  instant.  But, 
my  lord,  permit  me  nevertheless  to  assure  you,  that  neither  this 
event  nor  any  other  that  I  am  capable  of  foreseeing  can  prevent  my 
carrying  home  with  me  the  same  sentiments  of  personal  gratitude  and 
attachment  to  your  lordship  which  I  brought  into  the  country. 

The  following  to  D'Oyly,  July  5,  shows  how  acutely 
his  immediate  disappointment  made  him  feel  the  neglect, 
real  or  imaginary,  of  friends.  The  superscription  speaks 
for  itself. 

My  dear  Mr.  D'Oyly,- — The  Egmont  Indiaman  arrived  here  on 
the  third  of  this  month,  with  letters  as  low  down  as  December  24, 
1776,  but  not  a  Hne  from  you.  I  have  already  acknowledged  yours 
of  November  6,  written  hastily  and  in  a  violent  panic :  a  brief 
answer,  I  must  confess,  to  the  volumes  you  have  received  from  me. 
It  is  easy  enough  to  write  these  letters,  and  I  have  received  many 
sent  from  people  who  neither  possess  the  right  that  you  have  to 
convey  their  censures  to  me,  nor  have  ever  given  me  any  other  proof 
of  attention  to  my  interests.  I  declare  most  solemnly,  I  have  no 
reason  to  think  that  any  mortal  has  taken  an  active  part  for  me  in 
any  one  instance  since  I  left  England ;  that  I  have  thus  far 
weathered  the  storm,  not  only  without  assistance,  but  in  the  face  of 
every  difficulty  here,  and  every  possible  discouragement  from  home 
that  could  be  thrown  in  my  way.  I  will  be  true  to  myself,  and  do  not 
yet  despair  of  briuging  this  battered  vessel  safely  and  honourably 
into  harbour.  My  friends,  I  doubt  not,  will  then  be  ready  to  meet 
me  on  the  shore,  ■sfith  the  congratulations  which  are  always  sincerely 
given  to  success.     We  shall  meet  in  a  cottage  on  the  edge  of  some 


90  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

common,  and  look  back  to  and  revive  the  happy  days  of  friendship 
and  cordiality,  when  we  had  neither  hopes  nor  fears  to  perplex  us. 
Till  that  time,  my  good  friend,  I  will  trouble  you  no  more.  Leave 
me  to  my  fortune  :  viece  swm  artifex  fortuncB ;  I  have  not  uttered  so 
many  Latin  words  in  as  many  years.  I  think  my  heart  must  be 
hardened,  if  such  strokes  do  not  break  it.     Farewell.' 

Journal. 

'■June  2Qth-Wth. — Employed  in  drawing  up  our  joint 
letters  to  the  Court  of  Directors,  Lord  Weymouth  and 
Lord  North,  Ellis,  Wedderburn,  &c.  Declare  explicitly 
my  determination  to  resign,  if  superseded.  Thus  far 
nothing  can  be  more  pliant  and  obliging  than  General 
Clavering.  On  Monday  he  invests  himself  with  the  Order 
of  the  Bath,  and  v/e  attend  council.  A  lucky  star  it  is, 
and  appears  to  us  at  the  most  seasonable  juncture.  The 
Governor  orders  a  salute,  and  recommends  circulars  to 
notify  the  honour  done  to  Clavering.  I  thought  this  a 
pitiful  condescension. 

'  July  6th. — Sup  with  Hastings  at  Impey's  ;  long  faces. 

'  9th. — News  of  Mrs.  Lnhoff's  divorce,  and  hopes  of  her 
marriage  with  Hastings. 

'  11th. — Troops  removed  from  the  Eajah  of  Burdwan's 
house.  The  infamous  BridjooKissore  appointed  guardian 
to  the  Eajah,  with  unlimited  power.  At  night  a  long 
conference  with  Sir  J.  Clavering  ;  he  begins  to  perceive 
how  grossly  he  has  been  abused  on  all  sides ;  requests 
me  to  write  a  private  letter  for  him  to  Lord  North. 

'  12th. — Employed  as  he  desires;  pepper  and  salt.  A 
good  letter  ;  but  I  fear  the  author  wiU  be  suspected. 
Clavering  signs  it  joyfully.  In  a  letter  to  his  brother,  he 
orders  the  letters  to  be  printed  by  Almon,  and  adds  that 
he  will  not  be  the  dupe  of  any  minister.  The  Chief 
Justice  very  low.     His  lady  enraged  at  the  match,  and 

'  The  '  farewell '  seeina  to  have  been  in  earnest.  But  Doyly,  from  tha 
tone  of  his  subsequent  letters,  forgave  the  attack. 


777]  MARKIAGB  OF  HASTINGS.  91 

distressed  about  the  future  visit. — N.B.  The  dames  for  a 
long  time  were  bosom  friends. 

'  13th. — In  the  country  at  Sir  J.  C.'s  and  family.  Last 
night  J.  C.  received  Eobinson's  private  letter  of  November 
20,  which  he  ought  to  have  received  a  mouth  ago.  They 
have  plainly  gained  Sir  Ed.  Vernon.  It  is  evident,  from 
Eobinson's  letter,  that  the  minister  foresaw  the  possibility 
of  Hastings'  refusing  to  quit  the  government,  yet  made 
no  provision  for  it.  At  Clavering's  desire  I  write  him  a 
peppering  answer. 

'  Ibth. — Eevenue  Board.  Parturiunt  monies.  The  Go- 
vernor begins  at  last  his  approaches  to  a  settlement,  and 
proposes  five  leading  questions  to  iis  which  we  have 
answered  fifty  times.  Yet,  as  I  do  not  intend  to  spare 
him,  I  desire  one  day  to  give  my  answer.  The  truth  of 
all  my  predictions  about  his  Aumeers,  Hustaboods,  and 
accurate  valuations  seems  now  to  oppress  him.  Vestigia 
multa  retrorsum.  The  man  appears  to  me  in  a  state  of 
insanity.  Clavering  visits  me  at  night,  very  resigned  and 
ready  to  sign  anything  I  think  proper.  Eous  teUs  me  he 
shall  now  return  to  Dacca. 

'  IQth. — A  minute  from  Clavering  and  myself  in  answer 
to  the  questions.  Hastings  very  submissive.  The  Aumeers 
and  all  their  works  made  over  to  the  devil.  I  disdain  to 
triumph,  though  I  never  had  so  much  matter  for  it. 
Hastings  and  I  were  fairly  pitted  on  the  question  of  the 


The  following  letter  of  Francis's  to  Godfrey,  of  this 
date,  relates  to  the  intended  marriage  of  Hastings  to  the 
celebrated  Mrs.  Imhofi",  which  actually  took  place  on 
August  1  : — 

July  19,  1777. 
There  is  no  answering  for  the  resolutions  of  such  a  timid,  desperate, 
distracted  being  as  Hastings.     To  complete  the  character,  as  it  will 


92  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

probably  conclude  the  history  of  this  extraordinary  man,  I  must 
inform  yon  that  he  is  to  be  married  shortly  to  the  supposed  wife  of 
a  German  painter,  with  whom  he  has  lived  for  several  years.  The 
lady  is  turned  of  forty,  has  children  grown  np  by  her  pretended 
husband,  from  whom  she  has  obtained  a  divorce  under  the  hand  of 
some  Gernaan  prince.  I  have  always  been  on  very  good  terms  vdth 
the  lady,  and  do  not  despair  of  being  invited  to  the  wedding.  She 
is  an  agreeable  woman,  and  has  been  very  pretty.  My  Lord  Chief 
Justice  Impey,  the  most  upright  of  all  possible  lawyers,  is  to  act  the 
part  of  a  father  to  this  second  Helen,  though  his  wife  has  not  spoken 
to  her  this  twelvemonth. 

Journal. 

'■July  24rih. — The  advice  of  a  new  Eegulation  Bill  having 
passed  in  March  last  seems  to  distress  and  sink  the  Go- 
vernor and  BarweU  beyond  measure Nobkissen 

distracted  at  a  slight  put  on  him  by  the  General,  who,  I 
think,  is  now  fairly  plunged  into  black  pohtics,  without 
knowing  how  to  steer  between  them.  An  entertainment 
made  on  purpose  this  night  at  the  Governor's  to  effect 
a  reconciliation  between  Lady  Impey  and  Madame  Cha- 
pusetin ;  the  former  sends  an  excuse.  A  mortal  disap- 
pointment ! 

'  2Qth. — Nothing.  Sup  at  Impey's.  Her  ladyship 
swears  stoutly  that  Madame  Imhoff  shall  pay  her  the 
first  visit — an  idea  which  I  don't  fail  to  encourage.' 

The  next  entry  (July  28,  1777)  relates  to  a  subject  to 
which  it  is  impossible  here  to  do  more  than  allude.  The 
'  Triumvirate '  had,  from  the  beginning,  set  themselves 
against  Hastings'  views  of  external  policy  tending  to 
'  annexation.'  After  the  battle  of  Arras,  the  first  won 
by  British  arms  against  the  Mahrattas,  May  17,  1775, 
Hastings  had  effected  a  treaty  with  Eaghoba,  their  active 
leader,  which  Claveriug's  party,  during  their  supremacy, 
had  annulled ;  but  their  pohcy  was  in  turn  disapproved 
by  the  Directors.    Much  of  the  public  business  noticed  in 


1777]  MAHRATTA  WAE.  93 

Francis's  journal  relates,  as  will  be  seen,  to  the  military  ope- 
rations which  subsequently  took  place :  the  convention  of 
Hurghaum,  January,  1778,  which  rescued  a  British  ai'my 
from  destruction  by  the  sacrifice  of  all  its  acquisitions ;  and 
the  expeditions — at  first  under  Colonel  Leslie,  afterwards 
under  Colonel  Goddard,  —  carried  on  during  Francis's 
stay  in  India,  but  inauspiciously  terminated  in  1781,  after 
his  return. 

Journal. 

'■July  28th. — Eeceived  the  Company's  letter  of  February 
5,  1777.  Our  Poona  treaty  totally  condemned,  and  in 
terms  which  seem  expressly  levelled  against  Clavering. 
He  appears  to  me,  and  I  believe  to  himself,  to  be  sacri- 
ficed on  all  sides.  With  respect  to  the  subject  on  which 
he  and  I  difiered  in  February,  1776,  and  had  nearly 
divided  for  ever,  they  say  "  they  entirely  agree  with  Mr. 
Francis."     Sup  at  Lemaistre's,  with  Clavering,  Hyde,  &c. 

'  29th. — Eev.  Board.  Barwell  absent.  Paragraphs  of 
the  last  letter,  respecting  the  revenues,  read  and  circulated 
to  the  provincial  councils.  All  in  favour  of  the  Zemin- 
dars, and  to  reheve  the  natives.  The  Court  of  Directors 
evidently  take  as  much  of  my  plan  as  they  possibly 
can,  consistently  with  their  own  immediate  profits.  The 
Governor  very  humble.  I  find  by  private  letters  dated 
February  5,  that  I  stand  as  high  at  home  as  I  could  wish. 
Chunar  declared  by  the  judges  not  to  be  within  their 
jurisdiction.  Mrs.  Imhofi"  sups  at  Lady  Impey's  by  way 
of  submission. 

'■August  19th. — Eev.  Board.  Hastings  and  I.  Christie's 
grant  of  10,000  begas  in  Dinagepore  restored  by  the 
Governor — proh  pudor !  Clavering  very  ill,  and  I  think 
in  great  danger. 

'  20th. — No  Board.     Endeavour  to  persuade  Lemaistre 


94  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

to  print  his  argument.  He  sees  plainly  that  Impey  has 
made  him  the  scapegoat. — N.B.  Lady  Impey  sits  up  with 
Mrs.  Hastings ;  vulg6,  toadeating. 

'  2\st. — ^H.  and  I  sup  at  the  Governor's.  Mrs.  Hastings 
very  handsomely  acknowledges  my  constant  attentions 
to  her. 

'  22nd. — Mrs.  Hastings  returns  Lady  Clavering's  visit, 
attended  by  Lady  Impey  in  formd  pauperis.  Lieutenant- 
Colonel  Parker's  ball.  The  Claverings  not  invited.  Sir 
John  very  ill. 

'  2Qth. — Barwell  turns  advocate  of  the  Zemindars ; 
presents  a  petition  from  those  of  the  24  Pergunnas. 
Saw  Clavering  at  night.  There  seems  to  me  no  hope ; 
his  pain  is  gone,  and  he  takes  the  bark. 

'  28th. — Clavering  much  better.  At  the  request  of 
Lem".  and  Hide,  I  write  a  strong  letter  to  Justice 
Chambers  at  Chittagong,  to  prevent  his  taking  part  with 
Impey,  &c.;  vide  letter.  The  Chief  Justice  seems  de- 
termined to  push  everything  to  extremity.' 

The  next  entry  notes  the  death  of  Sir  John  Clavering 
— to  designate  him  by  the  title  of  his  short-lived  dignity. 
His  irritable  temper  had  probably  aggravated  the  perni- 
cious effects  of  the  climate  on  his  constitution.  And  dis- 
appointed ambition  may  have  contributed  to  the  cata- 
strophe ;  but  there  is  little  evidence  of  this  :  none  what- 
ever, that  I  have  found,  of  the  story  told  by  Macaulay, 
that  Hastings  insisted  on  having  his  attendance  at  his  own 
marriage  festivities  ;  '  brought  his  vanquished  rival  in  tri- 
umph to  the  gay  circle  which  surrounded  the  bride,'  and 
thereby  hastened  his  decease.  It  must  be  observed  that 
Prancis — though,  as  we  have  seen,  in  his  heart  so  bitter 
an  enemy  to  the  General — had  ingratiated  himself  with 
his  lady,  who  writes  him  very  affectionate  letters  after 
her  return  to  England. 


1777]  DEATH  OF  SIE  JOHN  CLAVERING.  95 

Journal. 

'  August  30iA. — Sir  John  Clavering,  after  a  delirium  of 
many  hours,  expired  at  half-past  two  p.m.,  and  was  buried 
at  eight,  in  the  most  private  manner.  The  Governor 
ordered  minute  guns.  I  waited  on  the  ladies,  &c.,  and 
pressed  them  to  remove  to  my  house,  but  they  declined. 
I  attended  the  funeral  on  foot  to  the  grave. 

'  September  bth. — The  Governor  took  me  on  one  side  to 
remonstrate  amicably  against  the  violence  and  hostility 
of  my  conduct,  particularly  yesterday,  con  muchas  pala- 
bras,  &c.  I  answered  him  generally  that  my  situation,  pre- 
servation of  my  character,  consistency,  &c.,  obliged  me  to 
observe  this  conduct  without  any  personal  enmity  to  him. 
He  complained  bitterly  of  a  reflection  I  had  thrown  upon 
him  in  one  of  my  minutes  yesterday  about  Harnay's  in- 
tended command.  As  I  really  had  no  such  intention,  I 
agreed  to  strike  the  words  out.  Lemaistre  dines  with 
me  alone. 

'  6th Nothing. 

■'  7th. — Lemaistre  and  Hyde  dine  with  me  at  the 
gardens,  and  engage  body  and  soul  with  me,  envers 
tous  et  contre  tous. 

^8th. — Violent  debate  at  the  council.  Barwell  evi- 
dently set  on  to  attack  Bristowe  in  order  to  awe  me. 
I  set  them  at  defiance.  Engage  with  Colonel  Upton 
to  secure  Lord  Sandwich ;  very  busy  in  writing  letters 
overland,  and  contriving  modes  of  conveyance.  The 
weight  of  metal  against  me. ' 

September  4  is  the  date  of  a  very  violent  letter  of 
Francis's  to  Lord  North,  in  which  he  announces  Clavering's 
death,  and  declares  that  '  Hastings  will  never  be  brought 
to  a  voluntary  resignation  !     In  one  word,  he  cannot  quit 


96  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

the  ground  he  stands  on.  .  .  .  He  knows  that  the  whole 
country  would  instantly  rise  and  witness  against  him.' 
To  his  wife,  at  the  same  date,  he  gives  a  favourable  ac- 
count (a  very  unusual  relaxation  of  the  severity  of  his 
judgments)  of  Mrs.  Hastings.  '  The  lady  herself  is  really 
an  accomplished  woman.  She  behaves  with  perfect  pro- 
priety in  her  new  station,  and  deserves  every  mark  of 
respect.' 

Journal. 

'  Sept.  9th. — Indisposed,  and  cannot  attend  the  Eev. 
Board.  The  language  now  is,  that  they  will  not  let 
Wheeler  take  his  seat ! 

'  11th. — Welbore  Ellis  has  changed  his  note,  having 
got  hopes  of  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot's  place.  In  a  private 
letter  to  Sir  J.  C,  dated  February  4,  1777,  he  says  the 
'coalition  with  Hastings'  friends  with  Government  en- 
ables it  to  prevent  some  things  and  to  carry  others,'  &c. 
'  I  can  assure  you  that  I  am  convinced  of  the  real  regard 
of  Lord  North  towards  you,'  &c.  Not  two  months  be- 
fore he  condemned  Lord  North,  horse  and  foot.  I  see 
little  or  no  difference  between  such  a  temporising  courtier 
and  that  treacherous  scoundrel  Robinson.  Sup  at  Lady 
Impey's,  where  I  find  Hastings  and  Sir  Elijah  in  close  de- 
bate. Set  them  at  defiance  about  Bristow.  Thompson, 
whom  they  send  with  the  pacquet  to  Suez,  promises  me 
fidehty,  body  and  soul. 

'  12th. — Clouds  between  Hastings  and  Barwell.  The 
latter  abuses  him  and  Impey  in  private.  I  think  Hastings 
will  not  be  able  to  keep  Wheeler  out  of  the  council. 

'  21st. — ^Letter  from  Hastings  about  a  vessel  of  Price's, 
which  he  ofiers  to  carry  our  despatch  to  Suez.  The  style 
is  changed.  "  If  you  approve  it,  Sir,  I  mil  propose  it ;  if 
not,  I  will  be  content  to  take  the  chance  of  another  pilot 


1777]  W.  BURKE  AT  MADRAS.  97 

vessel."  H.  and  B.  are  certainly  on  bad  terms,  though 
they  dare  not  proceed  to  an  open  rupture.  I  have  many 
hints  from  B.  through  Mackenzie  of  his  disposition  to 
buy  Hastings  out,  if  he  could  be  assured  that  I  would 
not  distress  him  in  the  government.  I  hear  all  and  say 
nothing. 

'  23rd — They  have  settled  their  bargain  now,  and 
this  job,  I  take  for  granted,  is  Barwell's  price  for  the  re- 
mission to  JSTuddea.  Two  days  ago  we  had  notice  that 
the  Plassey  and  Ceres  were  arrived  at  Ingellee,  yet  their 
pacquets  are  not  come  up ;  some  roguery  of  Hastings. 

'  29fA. — ^Barwell  absent.  Eliott  arrives  with  letters  as 
low  as  June  9.  It's  all  too  true.  We  are  infamously 
deserted  at  home  ;  but  Mr.  Ellis  thinks  it  very  advisable 
that  I  should  run  my  head  into  a  furnace.  Poor 
Will  Burke !  without  an  appointment  at  Madras,  and 
as  much  to  seek  as  if  he  had  never  had  a  friend :  what 
shall  I  do  for  him?  what  an  excellent  heart  breathes' 
through  Edmund's  letter!  By  something  that  passed 
this  day  in  council,  I  suspect  that  Hastings  is  laying  the 
ground  to  torment  if  not  dispossess  the  Eajah  of  Benares. 

'  BOth. — ^Visit  from  EUott^ — sly  devil !  He  assures  me 
that  Macleane  never  had  any  thoughts  of  coming  hither. 
Eeceived  the  general  letter  of  June  11.  Hastings  curses 
the  Directors  without  mercy,  and  turns  into  ridicule 
their  instructions  to  Madras.  Barwell  not  at  the  board. 
Court  of  Directors  write  a  strong  letter  to  General 
Clavering,  which  I  circulate  all  over  the  country.  Some 
hopes  yet. 

It  was  in  this  month  (September,  1777)  that  Francis 
found  time  to  compose  the  most  detailed  and  remarkable 
of  his  letters  to  Lord  North  on  the  government  of  India. 

^  Alexander  Eliot,  brother  of  Sir  Gilbert.     See  post. 
VOL.  n.  H 


08  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

It  is  in  truth  an  exhaustive  essay  on  the  subject,  such  as 
it  then  presented  itself.  But  it  came  before  the  public  in 
many  shapes,  and  cannot  find  a  place  in  a  mere  personal 
memoir.  Francis  printed  it  as  a  separate  composition 
in  1793. 

It  will  be  convenient  to  insert  here  (between  Septem- 
ber and  October,  1777)  a  number  of  letters  written  from 
England  in  the  earlier  part  of  that  year,  and  the  latest  of 
which  were  received  by  him,  according  to  his  endorse- 
ment, in  October.  They  will  show  the  opinion  entertained 
of  his  prospects  and  proceedings  by  his  friends  at  home, 
and  illustrate  the  entries  in  his  journal  made  after  the 
receipt  of  them.  The  following  is  from  Tilghman,  who 
had  by  this  time  come  from  America  to  England  in  the 
prosecution  of  his  Indian  design. 

January  24,  1777. 
My  dear  Francis, — By  tlie  last  fleet  I  -writ  to  Mr.  Secretary 
Mackrabie,  and  now  I  Lave  the  honour  to  address  myself  to  the 
Tyrant  of  Indostan.  After  a  thousand  delays,  I  have  obtained  the 
permission  of  the  Direction  to  proceed  to  Bengal,  not  simply,  but 
sub  modo  ;  that  is  to  say,  upon  condition  of  my  going  to  Dublin  and 
being  called  to  the  Irish  bar,  and  as  this  is  a  condition  precedent,  I 
must  comply  with  it  literally.  .  .  .  This  will  put  me  to  some  incon- 
venience :  however,  I  can  certainly  return  to  England  at  least  in 
time  to  get  out  in  the  last  ship.  Believe  me  I  shall  not  be  grieved 
■when  the  time  of  my  departure  from  this  country  arrives.  I  shall 
feel  more  of  that  reluctance  which  hung  about  me  when  I  went  last 
to  America.  Alas  !  why  should  I  ?  London  is  not  what  it  was  to  me. 
Fitzpatrick  is  dead  ;  you  are  gone  ;  and  Jack  Burke  is  as  heavy  as 
old  age.  I  have  never  ventured  to  set  my  foot  in  the  Crown  Coffee 
House,  indeed  I  never  see  it  without  being  filled  with  melancholy. 
My  chief  and  almost  only  companions  are  the  Godfreys  ;  without 
their  society  my  life  would  be  insupportable.  Eden  I  have  seen,  et 
plures  wmhras  !  but  how  low  are  such  folks  in  the  scale  of  acquaint- 
ance. Phil  Baggs  was  a  week  or  two  in  England  in  October.  When  he 
left  Paris,  the  report  was  that  he  was  going  to  England  to  out  timber 
on  one  of  his  estates  in  order  to  raise  ready  money  ;  pleasant  enough. 
Since  his  return  to  Prance  he  has  fought  a  desperate  duel  vnth  BuUy 


1777]  DUEL  OF  MAJOR  BAGGS.  90 

Fitzgerald,  in  wHch.  lie  behaved  with  his  -wonted  gallantry.  He 
woimded  his  antagonist  in  the  thigh,  and  was  himself  wounded  in 
the  leg,  the  small  bone  of  which  was  broken,  and  forced  into  the 
Undo  Achillis,  as  the  newspapers  say.  When  he  received  the  shot 
he  fell ;  but  having  a  pistol  in  reserve,  and  being  at  liberty  to  break 
ground,  he  crawled  towards  Fitz,  who,  unable  to  endure  the  grim- 
ness  of  his  countenance,  broke  ground  the  wrong  way,  and  ran  oiF 
at  such  a  rate  that  he  plainly  discovered  his  tendo  Achillis  had 
received  no  injury.  Upon  this  Baggs  took  a  flying  shot,  but  miss'd 
his  mark,  and  so  the  matter  ended.  Honest  Stephen  is  in  certain 
expectation  of  good  preferment  in  Ireland,  and  is  at  present  some- 
where in  the  neighbourhood  of  Salisbury  preaching  and  praying  to 
redeem  his  character. 

Mrs.  Francis  has  written  many  pages  in  folio  about  family  affairs, 
and  which  makes  it  unnecessary  for  me  to  enter  into  them ;  but  I 
must  indulge  myself  with  saying  a  word  or  two  to  your  son.  This 
boy  then  bears  a  perfect  resemblance  to  you  ;  he  has  your  shape 
(particularly  in  the  leg),  your  eyes,  your  mouth,  your  soft  hands, 
your  manner,  your  passions.  I  presume  you  are  partial  enough  to 
yourself  to  think  I  have  spoken  very  handsomely  of  him,  and  there- 
fore I  shall  dismiss  him  with  telling  you  that  Monsieur  Ribouville 
assures  me  he  has  a  very  extraordinary  capacity. 

Farewell !  Remember  me  to  Mack.  You  and  he  are  my  all 
in  India.     I  am  most  impatient  to  be  with  you. 

Tours  most  faithfully, 

R.  TiLSHMAN. 
Mrs.  Basse/s,  Fludyer  Street,  January  24,  1777. 

Godfrey  to  Francis. 

London,  March  12,  1777. 
I  have  put  off  writing  so  long,  that  I  have  but  one  day  to  do  it 
in ;  but  I  have  the  consolation  of  knowing  that  this  letter  will  go  by  my 
aide-de-camp  (R.  Tilghman),  to  whom  I  must  refer  you  for  any  par- 
ticulars that  I  shall  omit.  Tour  family  are  all  well ;  your  son  is  much 
unproved.  I  expect  your  determination  next  season  concerning  the 
plan  of  his  future  education.  All  the  world  here  have  been  aston. 
ished  that  the  reformers  of  India  should  have  played,  and  won  and 
lost  60,000?.  I  have  no  doubt  of  the  fact ;  the  quantum  is  the  only 
point  that  is  not  quite  so  clear,  and  that  you  are  the  winner.  I 
smcerely  rejoice  in  your  good  fortune.  For  God's  sake,  since  you 
have  incurred  the  censure  of  the  world,  keep  the  money  to  console 
you  in  your  afiliction.  I  heard  too,  but  that  is  not  quite  so  certain, 
that  you  had  lost  since  10,OOOZ.  at  baggammon.  I  should  be  happy 
to  hear  how  much  of  all  this  I  am  to  beheve. 

H  2 


100  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

Tlie  public  news  are  just  no-w  ttat  the  Americans  Lave  taten 
prisoners  a  body  of  900  Hessiaus.  Our  army  has  been  very  success- 
fal  last  cam.paign.  They  have  taken  New  Tork,  and  marched  a  good 
way  towards  Philadelphia,  and  they  have  made  between  4,000  and 
5,000  prisoners.  The  army  in  Canada  have  retaken  Montreal,  but  they 
have  not  been  able  to  cross  the  lakes.  General  Lee  is  taken.  The 
Americans  have  been  very  successful  at  sea ;  they  have  taken  so 
many  of  our  West  India  ships  that  the  common  insurance  from  the 
islands  has  been  above  30  per  cent.  One  West  India  house  failed  this 
winter  for  900,000L  Two  or  three  years  more  of  such  successes  will 
totally  ruin  this  country.  We  had  last  summer  17,000  Germans  ia 
America,  and  we  are  about  to  send  8,000  or  10,000  more. 

In  return  for  the  news  you  send  me  of  hanging  Nuncomar,  I  will 
tell  you  the  famous  Dr.  Dod  is  now  in  Newgate,  in  order  to  his 
hanging  by  the  first  opportunity.  He  has  been  found  guilty  of 
forgery,  and  the  sentence  is  to  be  pronounced  as  soon  as  the  judges 
have  decided  upon  a  poiut  of  law. 

Tours, 

D.  GODFEET. 

Major  Baggs  has  been  fighting  the  Fighting  Fitzgerald  ;  he  lives 
at  Paris  in  all  the  magnificence  of  a  prince.  I  have  been  told  by  a 
gentleman  who  lately  left  Paris,  that  there  is  no  guessing  within 
5,OO0Z.  how  much  the  expense  of  his  establishment  amounts  to 
yearly. 

/.  BowTce  to  Francis. 

London,  April  29,  1777. 
My  dear  Francis, — This  letter  will  be  carried  overland  to  Madras 
by  my  friend  Will  Burke,  who  goes  with  a  duplicate  of  the  Com- 
pany's despatches  to  Lord  Pigot.  Such  is  the  prejudice  against  his 
name  and  principles,  that  although  he  was  ten  years  in  Parhament, 
and  under-secretary  to  General  Conway,  with  a  fair  character  for 
morals  and  abilities,  he  had  not  interest  sufficient  to  obtain  any 
station  in  the  Company's  service,  but  is  obbged  to  have  recourse  to 
this  mode  of  getting  to  India.  He  and  Edmund  have  lived  together 
from  their  early  days,  in  a  course  of  the  most  uninterrupted  friend- 
ship, with  the  same  affections,  the  same  connexions  and  interests ; 
as  their  union  has  been  close,  their  separation  must  be  grievous. 
I  really  pity  the  man  going  and  the  man  left  behind;  their  only 
comfort  is  in  the  hope  that  fortune,  which  has  been  adverse  in  this 
quarter  of  the  globe,  may  be  favourable  in  another.     Poor  Will's 


1777]  WELBOEE  ELLIS  ON  INDL^N  AFFAIRS.  101 

wish,  was  to  go  to  Bengal,  in  some  situation  sucli  as  would  place  In'tn 
within  the  reach  of  your  assistance  ;  this  was  likewise  Edmund's  wish, 
but  they  had  not  interest  enough  to  obtaiii  it.  Should  any  accident 
send  him.  to  Bengal,  you  will  have  an  opportunity  of  gratifying 
your  iacliaation  to  oblige  E.  B.  by  serving  his  nearest  and  dearest 
friend. 

Welbore  Ullis  to  Frwncis. 

May  13,  1777. 
Dear  Sir, — I  take  the  opportunity  which  Mr.  Elliot  is  so  good  as 
to  offer  me  of  returning  you  my  best  and  most  cordial  thanks  for 
your  letters  of  September  13  £tnd  of  the  27th  of  the  same  month, 
1776. 

Mr.  Elliot  proposes  to  go  overland  from  Alexandria  to  Suez,  which 
has  been  found  so  convenient  and  expeditious  a  road,  that  I  believe 
the  intercourse  will  be  very  frequent  by  that  channel,  especially  as  I 
understand  that  the  Company  have  ordered  two  vessels  to  be  em- 
ployed as  packets  alternately  from  that  station, 

I  am  not  surprised  at  the  complaints  from  your  part  of  the  world 
of  the  painfal  disappointment  of  your  reasonable  expectations.  I  aia 
not  surprised  the  first  effects  should  be  temporary  despondency;  but 
I  should  be  surprised  if  a  little  recollection  or  reflection  did  not  cure 
that  despondency,  and  recall  a  resolute  and  steady  pursuit  of  the 
same  principles  and  the  same  measures  as  far  as  the  time  and  cir- 
cumstances will  permit.  A  majority  is  evidently  in  the  hands  of  the 
resident.  The  Company  have  not  shown  that  disposition  to  you 
which  your  services  merited  from  them,  or  which  corresponded  even 
with  what  the  Directors  wrote,  and  Government,  who  applauded, 
gave  no  effectual  support.  Tou  well  knew  when  you  were  appointed 
that  you  had  nothing  to  expect  from  the  Company  ;  but  as  far  as  it 
dared  show  it,  discouragement,  indisposition,  coldness  at  the  best, 
and  if  you  afforded  any  legal  or  well  grounded  handle  for  it,  hostility. 
The  only  effectual  support  you  expected  was  from  Government, 
and  by  your  own  wisdom,  courage  and  important  services  you  well 
deserved  it,  and  I  will  venture  to  say  you  had  it,  to  the  utmost  of 
the  power  of  Government.  But  Government  lost  its  power  both  in 
the  direction  and  in  the  general  court — great  is  Diana  of  the  Ephe- 
sians.  The  alarm  which  was  taken  in  India  rapidly  communicated 
itself  to  Leadenh.all  Street,  and  combinations  for  mutual  defence 
were  secretly  made,  the  effects  of  which  soon  discovered  the  weakness 
of  Government ;  and  to  ensure  their  success,  every  election  of  direc- 
tors was  more  and  more  adverse.     Therefore,  say  you,  it  is  neither 


102  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

■wise  for  us,  nor  useful  to  tlie  great  object,  to  continue  an  liostile  and 
fruitless  opposition  in  the  council.  Is  it  of  no  use  to  liave  entered 
upon  the  records  of  the  deliberations  the  opposition  and  the 
very  able  arguments  with  which  that  opposition  is  supported  by 
such  men  as  you  and  Olavering  ?  Do  you  think  such  a  steady 
adherence  of  two  such  men  acting  as  it  were  by  one  spirit  would  not 
hold  in  check  to  a  certaiu  degree  any  wantonness  of  ambition,  of 
rapacity,  to  which  a  majority  might  otherwise  be  possibly  inclined, 
particularly  a  majority  supported  by  a  castiug  vote  which  therefore 
flung  such  a  weight  of  responsibility  on  one  head  ?  But  invidiam 
plaoare  paras.  Believe  me,  dear  Sir,  nothing  you  can  say  or  do  will 
ever  give  you  any  hold  in  the  Company  siuce  the  irremissible  crime 
of  having  been  in  that  commission  as  a  confidential  friend  of  Govern- 
ment. But  Government  is  permanent,  and  the  Company's  term 
growing  very  short  must  bring  them  to  the  foot  of  Government,  for 
so  valuable  a  lease  must  not  run  too  near  its  expiration  without 
some  negotiation.  The  favour  of  Government  is,  together  with  your 
own  merit  and  abilities,  the  most  permanent  and  secure  object  for 
your  fature  success  to  be  aimed  at.  I  but  just  skim,  the  argument, 
for  I  do  not  pretend  to  advise,  much  less  to  argue  with  you.  I  only 
touch  lightly  what  I  have  gathered  to  be  the  wishes  of  those  friends 
whom  I  believe  to  be  anxious  for  your  welfare,  and  I  trust  that  you 
will  forgive  in  that  view  the  liberty  I  have  taken  of  seeming  to  differ 
in  any  degree  from  the  scheme  of  your  conduct  which  you  by  the 
last  letters  seemed  inclined  to  adopt.  Every  man  must  judge  for 
himself,  and  you  are  master  of  such  ability  as  to  enable  you  to  form 
a  better  judgment  than  we  your  friends  dare  do.  Before  this  can 
reach  your  hands,  probably  Mr.  Hastings  will  have  resigned  the 
chair  to  General  Clavering.  I  am  so  pressed  in  time  that  I  am 
obliged  to  stop  here,  as  Mr.  Elliot  sends  me  word  that  he  is  to  set 
out  this  evening  or  early  to-morrow  morning.  Be  pleased  to  accept 
my  best  thanks  for  your  very  obliging  attention  in  sending  me  the 
drawings  which  you  mention,  and  which,  when  the  captain  shall 
have  leisure  to  get  his  things,  I  shall  have  the  pleasure  to  see. 
I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  great  regard,  dear  Sir, 

Tour  most  faithful  and  obedient  servant, 

"W.  Ellis. 
To  Hon.  Mr.  Francis,  &c.  &c 


From  this  letter  it  appears  that  a  section  at  least  of 
Francis's  influential  friends  in  England  encouraged  him, 
even  against  his  own  inclination,  in  maintaining  constant 


1777]  W.  BUEKB  AT  MADRAS.  103 

opposition  to  Hastings.  This  should  be  fairly  borne  in 
mind  in  judging  of  the  conduct  which  he  pursued. 

On  June  8,  1777,  Godfrey  reports  to  Francis  a  violent 
quarrel,  already  alluded  to,  between  Mrs.  Francis  and  her 
trustees ;  '  their  difference  arose  from  the  circumstance 
of  her  taking  a  house  in  Harley  Street  totally  against 
Chandler's  approval.'  '  The  house  is  a  very  good  one ; 
the  rent  180/.  per  annum.' 

The  following,  of  the  same  date,  is  from  Edmund 
Burke  (hitherto  unpublished),  and  introduces  his  brother 
WiUiam  Burke,  who  went  at  this  time  to  India  to  seek  his 
fortune.  He  stopped  at  Madras,  where  he  obtained  the 
office  of  agent  to  the  Eajah  of  Tanjcjre,  with  which  he 
returned  to  London :  see  the  details  in  Burke's  cor- 
respondence of  these  years  : — 

Echnund  Burke  to  Francis. 

June  9,  1777. 

My  dear  Sir, — Our  common  friend  Jolin  Burke  informs  me  tliat 
you  still  retain  that  kindness  which  you  were  so  good  to  express 
towards  me  before  you  left  London.  This  wide  disconnected  empire 
will  frequently  disperse  those  who  are  dear  to  one  another ;  but  if 
this  dispersion  of  their  persons  does  not  loosen  their  regards,  it 
every  now  and  then  gives  such  opportunities  of  unexpected  meeting 
as  almost  compensate  the  pain  of  separation,  and  furnishes  means 
of  kind  offices  and  mutual  services,  which  make  even  absence  and 
distance  the  causes  of  new  endearment  and  continued  remembrance. 
These  thoughts  occur  to  me  but  too  naturally  as  my  only  comforts 
on  parting  with  a  friend,  whom  I  have  tenderly  loved,  highly 
valued,  and  continually  lived  with,  in  an  union  not  to  be  expressed, 
quite  since  our  boyish  years.  Indemnify,  my  dear  Sir,  as  well  as 
you  can  for  such  a  loss  by  contributing  to  the  fortune  of  my  friend. 
Bring  him  home  with  you  an  obhged  person,  and  at  his  ease,  under 
the  protection  of  your  opulence.  You  know  what  his  situation  has 
been,  and  what  things  he  might  have  surely  kept,  and  infinitely 
increased,  if  he  had  not  those  feehngs  which  make  a  man  worthy  of 
fortune  but  do  not  put  him  in  the  way  of  securing  it.  Remember 
that  he  asks  those  favours  which  nothing  but  his  sense  of  honour 
prevented  his   having  it  in  his  power  to  bestow.     This  will  be 


104  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

a  powerful  recommendation  to  an  heart  like  yours.  Let  Bengal 
protect  a  spirit  and  rectitude  wliicli  is  no  longer  tolerated  in 
England.  I  do  not  know,  indeed,  that  lie  will  visit  your  kingdom ; 
but  if  lie  should,  I  trust  that  he  will  find  a  friend  there,  whose 
manner  of  serving  him  will  not  be  in  the  style  of  those  who  acquit 
themselves  of  a  burthen.  Mr.  Burke's  first  views,  indeed,  are  at 
Madras  ;  but  all  India  is  now  closely  connected :  and  your  influence 
and  power  is  such  that  you  may  serve  him  very  materially  even 
there.  I  will  not  wrong  your  friendship  by  pressing  this  matter 
any  further,  but  it  is  indeed  near  to  my  heart. 

I  say  nothing  of  your  Eastern  poHtics.  The  affairs  of  America, 
which  are  as  important,  and  more  distracted,  have  almost  entirely 
engrossed  the  attention  which  I  am  able  to  give  to  any  thing  I  wish, 
and  laboured  to  keep  war  at  a  distance.  Never  having  been  able  to 
discover  any  advantage  which  could  be  derived  from  the  greatest 
Buccess,  I  never  approved  of  our  engaging  in  it ;  and  I  ami  sure  it 
might  have  been  avoided.  The  ministers  this  year  hold  out  to  us 
the  strongest  hopes  of  what  they  call  a  victorious  campaign.  I  am 
indeed  ready  enough  to  believe  that  we  shall  obtain  the  delusive 
advantages  which  will  encourage  us  to  proceed,  but  will  not  bring 
matters  nearer  to  an  happy  termination.  France  gives  all  the  as- 
sistance to  the  colonies  which  is  consistent  with  the  appearance  of 
neutraUty.  Time  is  to  show  whether  she  will  proceed  farther,  or 
whether  America  can  maintain  herself  in  the  present  struggle 
without  a  more  open  declaration  and  more  decided  efibrts  from 
that  power.  At  present  the  ministers  seem  confident  that  France 
is  resolved  to  be  quiet.  If  the  court  of  Versailles  be  so  pacific, 
I  assure  you  that  it  is  in  defiance  of  the  wishes  and  opinions  of 
that  whole  nation. 

Adieu !  my  dear  Sir.  Be  assured  that  no  person  rejoices  more 
sincerely  than  I  do  in  hearing  every  circumstance  of  fortione  and 
honour  that  attends  you. 

I  am,  with  the  most  sincere  esteem  and  affection,  ever 

Tour  most  faithful  and  obedient  humble  servant, 
Westminster,  June  9,  1777.  E.  BuEKB. 

I  need  not  say  with  what  affection  John  Burke  salutes  you. 

B'Oyly  to  Francis. 

Charles  Street,  July  9,  1777. 

My  dear  Francis, — All  your  letters  have  been  received,  and  your 

situation  in  the  East,  as  well  as  ours  in  this  part  of  the  globe,  must 

make  you  anxious  to  hear  from  us.    Whether  your.s  or  ours  is  the  most 

whimsical  is  not  easily  to  be  decided.   Perhaps  you  may  imagine  that 


1777]  DOYLY  TO  FKAJSTCIS.      MACLEAN.  105 

yours  in  some  measure  must  turn  upon,  the  interest  and  conduct  of 
friends  liere ;  I  once  thought  so,  but  have  totally  altered  my  opinion. 
If  General  Clavering  and  you  can  but  continue  to  act  cordially 
together,  you  must  soon  have,  in  my  poor  opinion,  the  decision  of 
all  material  points  relative  to  India  matters ;  but  at  the  same  time,  I 
must  own  to  you  that  it  will  not  surprise,  although  greatly  hurt  me,  to 
find  that  Sir  J.  Clavering  and  you  have  taken  your  resolutions  to  act 
no  longer  under  such  directors  and  such  protectors.  You,  in  India, 
may  possibly  get  better  information  than  I  can  do  here  (although  I 
am  not  idle  in  my  inquiries)  how,  in  what  manner,  and  upon  what 
principles,  and  by  whom  the  great  affairs  of  India  are  guided.  I  own 
myself  so  ignorant  as  not  to  be  able  to  form  a  tolerable  guess 
whether  Mr.  Hastings  or  Sir  J.  Clavering  is  governor-general  at 
this  moment.  Upon  this  point  there  is  a  variety  of  opinions  here. 
Those  who  are  called  the  hnowing  ones  mate  their  betts  that 
Clavering  is  ;  others,  of  whom  I  am  one,  think  otherwise.  In  the 
first  place,  I  doubt,  especially  as  poor  Monson  is  dead,  whether 
Hastings  will  submit  to  what  his  ambassador  Macleane,  at  a  critical 
moment,  produced  as  his  resignation,  and  upon  which  the  Directors 
thought  proper  to  act.  And  in  the  next,  if  he  should,  whether  Sir 
J.  Clavering  would  choose  to  be  governor  upon  such  terms.  'Tis 
said  the  resignation  came  forth  upon  conditions  settled  with  the 
minister.  What  they  are  I  know  not,  but  I  fancy  young  Elliot,  who 
is  probably  with  you  before  this  time,  can  tell  you  with  certainty,  if 
he  pleases.  He  is  supposed  to  be  one  of  the  persons  interested  in 
the  treaty.  As  soon  as  it  was  determined  to  restore  Lord  Pigot  for 
a  time  to  his  government,  and  then  recall  both  him  and  his  council, 
I  understood  Mr.  Macleane,  who  has  lately  appeared  as  agent  for  the 
Nabob  of  Arcot,  set  out  directly  for  Madras  by  land,  and  I  hear  got 
the  start  of  Mr.  W.  Burke  and  another  person  by  just  getting  to 
Dover  before  them  and  engaging  the  whole  of  the  only  packet  boat 
there  at  that  time.  This  very  extraordinary  man  seems  lately  to 
have  been  the  adviser  most  rehed  on  by  our  minister,  who  seems 
determined,  almost  at  any  rate,  to  keep  India  matters  out  of  the 
House  of  Commons ;  but,  in  my  poor  opinion,  they  are  so  much  em- 
barrassed that  nothing  can  keep  them  out  next  session.  In  short, 
my  dear  friend,  you  only  can  form  a  good  judgment  what  part  you 
ought  to  take.  Observe  one  thing,  you  may  stay  where  you  are  as 
long  as  you  please  ;  nobody  here  will  think  of  recalling  you.  They 
know  better ;  and  if  you  can,  consistent  with  your  honour  (for 
without  I  am  sure  you  will  not),  stay  till  the  end  of  your  five  years, 

'  See  PreUminaiy  Essay ;  "Wade's  Junius,  i.  78 ;  ii.  348. 


106  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

and  JTist  see  what  turn  things  will  at  that  time  probably  take,  I  think' 
you  would  do  well ;  and  it  would  most  likely  answer  all  the  wishes 
both  of  yourself  and  friends.  I  have  the  satisfaction  to  tell  you  that 
the  little  frisk  between  you  and  Barwell  seems  in  a  great  measure 
to  be  forgot  by  most  people,  except  his  sister,  who  is,  I  understand, 
outrageous,  and  will  not  forget  and  forgive.  So  much  for  India 
matters. 

If  the  Howes  do  not  drub  the  Americans  this  summer,  that  dispute, 
I  shall  begin  to  fear,  will  not  end  well  for  this  country.  And  the 
French,  who  now  do  everything  but  avowedly  assist,  will  probably 
another  year  take  a  part  with  them. 

Thus  you  see  what  a  damned  condition  we  are  in  here.  We  are 
not  to  be  envied.  Stay  where  you  are,  and,  if  possible,  keep  things 
quiet  there. 

I  am  quite  worn  out  with  fatigue,  and  if  I  can  but  get  rid  of  this 
American  business,  nothing  shall  ever  make  me  engage  in  any  other. 
Poor  Strachey  has  not  been  weU  in  America,  indeed  he  was  not 
so  when  he  left  us.  Mrs.  Francis  and  your  children  are  perfectly 
well.  Mrs.  D'Oyly  is  pretty  well,  and  greatly  yours.  Adair  and  Jebb 
set  out  last  Saturday  for  Italy,  to  visit  the  Duke  of  Gloucester,  who 
is  supposed  to  be  iu  a  dying  state.  Your  friend  Mrs.  Cartwright  is 
married  to  Uotterell  of  the  Council  Of&ce. 

Adieu !  my  dear  Francis,  and  be  assured  I  am, 

Yours  ever  most  affectionately, 

Che.  D'Oylt. 

Lord  North  to  Sir  /ofeji  Clavering. 
(Opened  apparently  by  Francis.) 

Downing  Street,  July  11, 1777. 
Sir, — The  letter  from  the  Court  of  Directors,  which  Mr.  Bumbold 
carries  with  him  to  India,  will  show  you  that  they  are  sensible  of  your 
merit  and  services,  and  thoroughly  convinced  that  it  is  of  the  ut- 
most importance  to  their  affairs  that  you  should  continue  in  India.  I 
most  heartily  join  with  them  in  their  intreaties  to  you  to  stay  at 
least  for  some  time  longer  in  your  present  situation,  which  I  trust 
that  we  shall  be  able  to  make  more  agreeable  to  you.  The  general 
consideration  of  Indian  affairs  will  come  before  Parliament  in  the 
next  session,  when  we  shall  endeavour  to  correct  the  abuses  that 
prevail  in  the  management  of  them  both  in  Asia  and  Europe.  What 
can  be  done  by  the  crown  shall  be  done,  but  it  is  difficult  for  the 
king  to  act  without  the  directors,  and  the  directors  are  afraid  to  give 
offence  to  the  proprietors.  Notwithstanding  our  apparent  majority 
amongst  the  latter,  we  were,  as  you  must  have  since  learnt,  defeated 
by  the  desertion  of  our  friends  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Hastings'  removal. 


1777]  LORD  NORTH  TO  CLAVERING.  107 

The  idea  of  reformation  was  so  alarming  to  all  the  Indians  and  the 
jobbers  in  Leadenhall  Street,  that  we  could  not  prevent  the  rescission 
of  the  vote  which,  with  great  difficulty,  and  by  the  majority  of  a 
single  voice,  we  had  carried  in  the  Court  of  Directors.  It  is  not  easy 
to  bring  the  latter  to  do  precisely  what  is  right ;  we  shall,  however, 
I  trust,  persuade  them  to  present  a  representation  to  the  council  re- 
specting the  court  of  justice,  which  will  in  all  probabiHty  produce 
the  amendments  that  you  think  necessary.  Most  of  your  other 
opinions  will,  I  flatter  myself,  be  adopted,  as-  both  the  Company  and 
the  nation  seem  alarmed  at  your  desire  of  quitting  the  Indian  service. 
I  most  earnestly  wish,  therefore,  that  you  will  consent  to  remain  in 
Bengal  till  you  hear  what  measures  are  taken  in  the  ensuing  session 
of  Parliament.  Mr.  Hastings  will  probably  have  left  you  before 
you  receive  this  letter :  as  to  Mr.  BarweU,  I  hope  that  we  may  in 
time  recall  him ;  but  my  bad  success  last  year  makes  me  very  diffi- 
dent of  any  point  that  is  to  be  carried  by  a  ballot,  and  very  unwil- 
ling to  bring  forward  any  business  before  the  court  of  proprietors. 
I  trust,  however,  that  when  Mr.  Hastings  is  come  away,  the  ob- 
structions thrown  in  your  way  by  Mr.  BarweU  will  be  ineffectual, 
especially  as  Mr.  Wheler  will,  I  doubt  not,  cordially  support  all  the 
measures  you  think  proper  to  take  for  the  pubKc  service.  We  felt 
sincerely  for  you  upon  the  loss  of  Colonel  Monson.  The  Company 
think  of  Sir  Eyre  Coote  for  his  successor,  and  I  wish  the  arrange- 
ment may  take  place,  as  I  know  that  he  will  heartily  co-operate 
with  you.  His  acceptance  of  this  commission,  or  refusal  of  it,  de- 
pends, I  beheve,  a  good  deal  upon  the  probabiUty  of  your  continuing 
in  India  or  returning  to  Europe.  I  am  glad  to  find  that  the  Com- 
pany have  taken  notice  of  Mr.  Webber,  and  am  happy  in  having 
been  able  to  show,  in  a  small  degree,  my  regard  to  Colonel  Thornton. 
All  my  endeavours  to  introduce  Mr.  Amyatt  into  the  direction 
have  failed,  and  I  find  the  present  set  of  directors  as  averse  to 
chusing  him  as  the  last.  I  can  say  truly,  that  I  have  sincerely 
laboured  to  serve  him,  and  if  a  seat  in  the  Court  of  Directors  had 
been  in  my  disposal,  he  would  have  succeeded  a  long  while  ago. 

Mr.  Robinson  has,  by  my  direction,  written  to  you  by  this  con- 
veyg-noe,  so  that  I  need  say  nothing  upon  several  other  points, 
which  I  should  otherwise  have  mentioned  to  you ;  but  there  is  one 
■circumstance  which  I  beg  leave  privately  to  hint  to  you  as  a  reason 
which  makes  it  of  great  consequence  that  you  should  continue 
some  time  longer  in  India.  Our  unhappy  disputes  with  our  colo- 
nies, which,  I  am  afraid,  are  not  very  near  their  end,  put  this 
nation  in  a  very  precarious  situation  with  respect  to  the  House  of 
Bourbon.     The  assurances  of  the  French  ministers  are  most  posi- 


108  MEMOIES  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FRAA^CIS.  [1777 

tive,  frank,  and  friendly,  but  their  conduct  is  bo  insidious,  and  so 
contradictory  to  their  declarations,  that  it  is  impossible  to  say  how 
long  the  peace  will  continue  between  us.  You  need  not  doubt  of 
our  taking  every  method  we  can  to  preserve  it,  but  France  may  go 
to  lengths  which  will  render  a  war  inevitable,  though,  I  believe,  it  is 
the  wish  both  of  the  King  of  France  and  of  M.  de  Maurepas  to 
avoid  it.  I  only  mention  this  for  jovjc  private  ear,  as  the  French  would 
probably  turn  their  eyes  towards  India  in  case  of  a  rupture.  It  is 
an  evil  I  hope  we  shall  avoid  ;  but,  if  we  cannot  escape  it,  it  is  highly 
important  that  our  affairs  in  India  should  be,  at  such  a  time,  in 
trusty  and  able  hands. 

I  beKeve  you  will  find  Mr.  Rumbold  and  Mr.  Munro  very  well 
disposed  to  act  with  you  in  promotiag  the  welfare  of  the  Company 
and  pubKc  in  India ;  and  I  trust  that  when  Mr.  Camao  assumes 
the  government  of  Bombay,  you  will  find  him  friendly,  though  I 
perceive  that  hitherto  the  council  of  that  presidency  has  thought 
proper  to  differ  from  the  supreme  council  at  Bengal. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  great  respect,  Sir, 

Your  most  faithful  humble  servant, 

North. 

P.S.— I  return  you  naany  thanks  for  all  the  letters  and  papers 
which  you  have  been  so  good  as  to  send  me. 

K 

Lord  North  to  Francis. 

Downing  Street,  July  11,  1777-. 
Dear  Sir, — I  return  you  a  thousand  thanks  for  all  your  letters, 
papers,  and  informations  from  India.  The  death  of  Colonel  Monson 
was  a  great  private  and  pubHc  loss,  but  the  apprehensions  of  losing 
in  consequence  the  services  of  General  Clavering  have  made  a  deep 
impression  upon  the  Directors  and  the  Company,  so  that  I  trust  we 
shall  find  a  greater  faciUtyin  Leadenhall  Street  than  we  have  hitherto 
found.  We  have  certainly  deserved  it  from  them,  for  we  have 
■desired  nothing  but  their  benefit.  Their  jealousies,  however,  have 
been  inconceivably  great,  which,  added  to  the  alarms  of  Indian  and 
other  jobbers,  have  defeated  us  more  than  once  ia  important  questions, 
the  particulars  of  which  you  are  well  acquainted  with.  The  Direc- 
tors are,  however,  so  much  displeased  with  the  late  conduct  of  Mr. 
Hastings  and  .Barwell,  that  they  are  ready  to  attend  to  the  plans 
of  reformation  suggested  by  Sir  J.  Clavering  and  you,  and  have 
written  a  most  earnest  letter  to  Sir  John  to  intreat  him  to  continue 
the  renewal  of  the  charter,  and  vnth  it  the  general  consideration  of 
all  matters  concerning  the  India  trade  and  the  Indian  possessions 


1777]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  109 

■will  come  before  Parliament  in  the  next  session.     Ttere  will  be 
much,  contest  and  dispute,  but  I  trust  the  result  -will  be  beneficial 
to  the  pubUc,  especially  as  I  hope  that  the  execution  of  decrees  of 
Parliament  will  be  lodged  in  honest  and  able  hands. 
I  am,  with  great  respect,  Sir, 

Tour  most  faithful  humble  servant, 

North. 


Journal. 

'  Oct.  2nd. — Call  appointed  surveyor-general.  Army 
contract  given  to  Johnson  for  three  years,  brother  of  the 
worthy  gentleman  who  negotiated  Mrs.  Imhofi's  divorce. 
Barwell  proposed  to  give  it  for  five.    They  have  no  mercy. 

'4?A. — Visit  from  the  young  Eajah  of  JSTuddea ;  treat 
him  as  he  deserves.  This  dirty  fellow  has  been  six 
weeks  in  Calcutta,  bargaining  with  H.  and  B.,  and  never 
paid  me  a  visit.  Eeport  that  the  Eagle  pacquet  has 
arrived  at  Madras. 

'  hth. — ^Nothing.  Supped  at  Impey's ;  as  gracious  as 
ever.  Many  symptoms  convince  me  that  Mrs.  H.  and 
Lady  Impey  hate  one  another  as  cordially  as  ever. 

'  8^A. — Lady  Impey /wrms  against  Mrs.  Hastings  worse 
than  ever.     Good  intelligence  through  Shee. 

'  ^th. — Job  for  Johnson.  Hastings  sometimes  has 
qualms.  BarweU  never.  Buildings  at  the  Fort  as- 
signed to  chief  engineer  ;  vide  my  reasons.  The  fact  is, 
he  had  it  before,  under  black  names. 

'  15fA.— Letter  from  E.  Hughes  dated  Sept.  22.  The 
Swallow  sailed  that  morning,  and  himself  was  to  follow 
on  the  30th,  in  the  Salisbury.  This  palavering  fellow  has 
betrayed  us  all  along.  Eeceived  the  Duke  of  Kingston's 
packet,  with  a  general  letter  of  March  7.  Colonel 
Monson's  commission  of  commander-in-chief  Stibbert 
brigadier-general.  -j-|-§-  of  this  year's  remittance  appro- 
priated by  the  Court  of  Directors,  chiefly  among  themselves 


110  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

and  friends.  Hyde  much  dissatisfied  with  Chambers' 
letter  to  Lemaistre  and  him.  This  trimming  system 
never  satisfies  any  body. 

'  IQth. — Hastings  complains  bitterly  of  Clavering's  trea- 
chery in  writing  secretly  to  the  C.  of  Drs.  on  Sept.  22, 
1776.  What  is  there  that  I  am  not  entitled  to  ?  After 
acting  together  for  two  years  he  resigns  without  commu- 
nicating his  intentions  to  me,  as  Monson  did  to  us  both, 
and  in  the  meantime  pushes  me  into  every  excess  and 
violence  of  hostility  against  H.  and  B.,  knowing  that  he 
was  soon  to  leave  me  in  the  midst  of  it.  How  little  the 
world  knows  the  true  character  of .  .  .  .,  and  how  is  it 
possible  that  any  history  should  be  true. 

'  Nov.  Qth. — All  the  black  people  have  it  that  Hastings 
is  going  away.  News  of  the  arrival  of  the  Seahorse  at 
Ingellee. 

'  7th. — Seahorse's  pacquet.  General  letter  of  April 
16.  What  a  ridiculous  letter.  Hastings  curses  the 
Directors  at  every  paragraph. 

'  9th. — Farrer  communicates  to  me  a  long  conversation 
he  had  with  Barwell  last  night ;  B.  desired  him  to  stay 
after  supper,  and  kept  him  till  four  o'clock  in  the  morning. 
It  all  turned  on  my  views  and  intentions,  and  whether,  if 
Hastings  went  away,  I  would  let  B.  hold  the  government 
for  a  short  time  on  condition  of  resigning  to  me  at  a  fixed 
period.  I  am  to  hear  more  in  a  few  days  ;  but  this  I 
think  looks  well. 

'  10th. — Succession  of  minutes  on  my  demand  of  an 
account  of  increases,  &c.  in  the  last  year.  H.  and  B. 
wofully  pushed  for  reasons  to  refuse  it.     Tanto  meglio.' 

The  next  entry  notifies  the  arrival  of  Tilghman  from 
America.  He  in  time  supphed  the  place  of  poor  Macra- 
bie  as  right  hand  man  to  Francis. 


1777]  ARRIVAL  OF  WHELER.  Ill 

Journal. 

'Nov.  11th. — Tilghman  arrives  this  morning.  I  find 
that  on  a  false  alarm  of  the  Portland  being  arrived,  Hast- 
ings has  sent  Elliot  and  Cochran  down  the  river  to  meet 
him,  with  all  offers  of  accommodation,  &c.,  but  more  pro- 
bably to  feel  the  ground,  that  is,  Wheeler's  pulse. 

'  Uth. — Sent  Livius  down  the  river  to  meet  Wheeler 
with  proper  instructions.'- 

'  15th. — Abrupt  overture  from  Barwell  at  a  visit  at  his 
house.  "  That  he  spoke  by  commission  from  Mr.  Hastings 
without  taking  any  part  himself,  that  H.  was  extremely 
hurt  at  the  general  asperity  of  my  conduct  to  him,  parti- 
cularly my  last  minute  about  the  Eanny  of  Eadshi,  which 
I  had  filled  with  the  severest  personalities,  &c.,  and  that  he 
was  prepared  with  a  full  refutation  of  every  thing  I  had 
said ;  but  that  he  wished  to  avoid  delivering  it  in  if  I  would 
withdraw  mine,  which  had  never  been  recorded  ;  that  this 
would  put  a  stop  to  altercations  useless  at  this  point  of  time 
to  all  parties,  and,  in  short,  offering  a  truce  but  prepared 
for  war."  In  my  answer  I  stated  in  the  strongest  terms 
all  Mr.  H.'s  arbitrary  and  absurd  conduct  since  the  power 
devolved  to  him — the  impossibility  of  my  ever  acting  in 
concert  with  such  a  man,  though  I  utterly  disclaimed  all 
personal  enmity.  I  conclude  he  understood  my  answer  as 
a  refusal,  for  early  next  morning  I  received  from  him  the 
following  note,  written  after  he  had  sat  up  all  night  win- 
ning Farrer's  money.     (The  note  and  answer  follow.) 

'  16th. — I  had  accordingly  a  long  conversation  with  him, 
in  which  I  adhered  to  my  refusal  to  withdraw  the  minute, 
but   opened  to   him   a  prospect   of  other   facilities,   if 

^  Wheler  (late  chairman  of  the  Board  of  Directors)  had  been  sent  from 
England  to  succeed  Hastings  (whose  resignation  was  assumed)  in  the  council. 
We  shall  iind  that  he  usually,  though  not  uniformly,  acted  with  Francis. 
But  Hastings'  casting  vote  ensured  him  supremacy. 


112  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

Hastings  would  go  away  and  Barwell  follow  him.  This 
I  am  convinced  was  the  real  object  of  the  overture  on 
their  part.  He  seemed  to  relish  it  highly,  and  said  he 
would  push  Hastings  to  the  utmost.  The  rest  of  our 
conversation  was  general.  I  see  plainly  B.  at  least 
would  be  happy  to  escape  in  a  whole  skin. 

'18th. — Eev.  Board.  Unexpectedly  summoned  by 
Hastings  to  make  a  formal  proposal  to  me  to  withdraw 
the  minute,  &c.  Peace,  concessions,  advances,  &c.,  vide 
proceedings,  and  my  letter  on  the  occasion  to  Mr.  Ellis.' 

In  the  letter  here  referred  to  (JSTov.  19,  1777)  he  in- 
forms Welbore  Ellis  that  he  thinks  Hastings  '  meditates  a 
retreat,  and  to  leave  Barwell  in  the  government.'  This, 
or  any  change  in  his  position,  was  now  the  subject  of 
his  dreams  '  At  present,'  he  tells  John  Bourke,  Nov.  22, 
speaking  on  the  subject  of  William  Burke's  claims,  'I 
have  as  httle  interest,  as  Ned  Burke  himself,  and  am  as 
completely  proscribed  as  if  I  had  Number  45  written  in 
capitals  on  my  forehead.  Does  any  reason  occur  to  you 
why  I,  who  am  in  place,  should  be  treated  as  a  patriot  ? 
I  don't  hke  it  at  all,  at  all ! ' 

To  Edmund  Burke  he  writes  by  the  same  mail,  after  an 
animated  discussion  of  the  American  question : — 

Tou  and  I,  Sir,  seem  to  be  travelling  up  opposite  sides  of  a  steep 
hill ;  but  I  bope  we  sball  meet  near  tbe  top  of  it.  It  is  reserved  for 
us  to  look  back,  I  trust,  from  stations  not  too  widely  separated,  on  the 
weary  steps  we  have  taken ;  to  compare  the  difficulties  we  have  sur- 
mounted, and  to  descend  into  the  vale  of  Hfe  together.  Are  these 
things  possible,  or  do  I  suffer  myself  to  be  flattered  by  a  sanguine 
delusive  imagination  ?  ...  If  you  die  before  I  return  to  Eng- 
land, I  will  burn  your  letter,'  and  endeavour  never  to  think  of  you 
more.  Till  then,  you  may  safely  believe  that  I  am,  with  sincere  affec- 
tion and  esteem,  dear  Sir,  your  faithful  servant. 


That  of  June  9,  1777,  above  printed. 


1777]  INDIAN  HISTORY.  1]3 

The  following  I  have  thought  worthy  of  preservation, 
on  account  of  the  pecuhar  power  of  hterary  criticism 
displayed  in  it,  and  the  excellence  of  the  style,  which 
appear  as  to  be  in  Francis's  best  manner.  It  is  addressed 
to  a  correspondent  and  great  admirer  and  partisan  of  his, 
Lieutenant  Lucius  Smith,  who  had  written  to  consult 
him  as  to  a  plan  of  writing  '  a  succinct  history  of  our 
afiairs  in  Indostan,  from  the  government  of  Lord  Clive 
to  the  present  time.' 

To  Lieutenant  Imcms  Smith,  at  Berhampore. 

Calcutta,  November  7,  1777. 
Sir, — I  have  received  tlie  favour  of  your  letter  of  the  Srd  instant, 
and  have  considered  the  project  mentioned  in  it  "with  attention.  It 
appears  to  me,  and  I  say  it  without  a  compliment,  that  you  are  or 
may  be  qualified  for  the  task  you  propose  to  undertake.  The 
subject  is  important ;  the  quality  of  it  singular ;  the  characters 
proper,  in  one  sense  at  least,  to  be  held  out  to  mankind,  to  show 
them  how  much  may  be  effected  in  the  line  of  mischief,  by  agents 
of  the  lowest  order.  Yet  I  do  not  apprehend  that  it  is  a  problem 
difficult  to  be  solved  how  a  few  adventurers  should  be  quahfied  to 
produce  the  effects  you  allude  to.  A  barbarous  hand,  a  single  stroke, 
may  demoHsh  the  most  perfect  piece  of  machinery  that  ever  was 
iavented  by  human  genius,  or  brought  to  perfection  by  art  and 
industry.  The  wonder  is  that  an  enlightened  and  benevolent  nation 
should  have  remained  quiet  spectators,  during  a  number  of  years, 
of  the  extraordinary  misrule  of  so  important  an  appendage  to  its 
empire.  The  causes  which  delayed  the  interposition  of  Parliament, 
the  situation  of  affairs  which  made  that  interposition  indispensably 
necessary,  and  the  circumstances  which  have  hitherto  defeated  the 
due  operation  of  it,  will  require  illustration  ;  but  the  most  delicate 
point  of  aU  is  to  state  fairly  the  characters,  views  and  interests  of 
individuals.  This  part  of  the  task  requires  courage,  sagacity  and 
an  unprejudiced  mind.  Some  persons  of  the  drama,  I  think,  cannot 
be  painted  in  colours  too  deep  or  with  too  severe  a  pencil.  In 
describing  such  characters,  you  will  find  it  difficult  to  separate 
history  from  satire.  An  English  reader,  at  least,  will  often  be 
inclined  to  give  you  credit  for  your  invention,  however  studiously 
you  may  confine  yourself  to  a  simple  narrative  of  facts.  The 
temper  of  the  times,  and  the  monsters  it  has  produced,  make  truth 
itself  incredible  ;  or,  though  you  should  obtain  credit  in  the  present 
VOL.  II.  I 


114  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

age,  your  book,  if  it  reaches  to  posterity,  will  be  treated  as  a 
romance.  Tou  will  have  much  to  do  before  you  reach  the  year  1775. 
Our  merit,  if  we  have  any,  cannot  be  understood,  unless  the  events 
which  preceded  our  arrival  and  the  state  of  Bengal  at  that 
point  of  time  be  clearly  and  accurately  explained.  Lay  out  your 
plan  methodically  before  you  begin  to  build.  Then  collect  your 
materials,  and  make  a  regular  arrangement  of  them  according 
to  the  periods  to  which  they  belong ;  and  in  the  course  of  the 
execution  take  care  that  every  part  preserves  a  natural  relation  to 
the  whole,  and  so  perfectly  to  belong  to  it,  that  it  cannot  be  removed 
without  being  missed.  Ornaments  of  language,  deep  reflections, 
and  brilliant  strokes  of  wit  produce  the  whole  of  their  iutended 
effect,  when  they  are  regularly  and  not  too  lavishly  distributed  over 
a  substratum  solid  enough  to  support  them.  A  man  of  lively  parts 
who  may  not  have  been  much  practised  in  writing,  will  find  it 
difficult  to  conceive  how  Httle  they  avail  in  the  execution,  without 
a  formality  in  the  plan,  which  it  may  require  some  degree  of  dulness 
to  submit  to  ;  I  mean  in  works  of  a  serious  nature  and  considerable 
extent. 

I  have  so  little  time  to  dispose  of,  that  it  would  be  in  vara  for  me  to 
undertake  the  office  of  a  regular  critic,  supposing  I  were  otherwise 
equal  to  it.  I  shall  nevertheless  be  glad  to  see  the  work  as  it  proceeds, 
and  will  communicate  to  you  freely  any  thoughts  that  may  appear 
to  me  likely  to  improve  it.  As  I  wish  you  success,  however,  I 
cannot  give  my  assent  to  your  going  farther  than  you  may  have 
done  already  in  the  execution,  until  you  have  drawn  out  a  formal 
scheme  or  disposition  of  the  whole  design — the  commencement, 
periods,  divisions,  and  conclusion.  The  preface  should  be  written 
first,  as  it  is  read ;  though  I  believe  this  rule  is  seldom  observed. 
Tour  plan  being  once  determinately  fixed  and  accurately  described, 
will  serve  for  a  rule  to  yourself,  as  well  as  to  those  persons  whose 
judgment  you  may  think  fit  to  consult ;  that  if  you  wander  from  it 
they  may  be  able  to  bring  you  back  to  your  original  principles. 

With  respect  to  my  own  name.  Sir,  I  can  never  consent  to  its 
being  mentioned  iu  terms  of  applause,  while  I  continue  iu  ofiice. 
Words  do  nothing,  if  they  are  not  clearly  supported  by  acts.  If,  at 
the  period  of  my  appointment,  my  conduct  should  deserve  public 
approbation,  the  best  way  to  secure  it  wdll  be  to  state  nothing  in  the 
mean  time  but  naked  facts,  wdthout  any  other  but  a  simple  and 
faithful  exposition  of  this  government  in  the  several  stages  at  which 
I  have  been  or  may  be  called  upon  to  act  as  a  member  of  it.  I 
would  not  pardon  you  the  most  distant  allusion  to  abilities,  zeal,  or 
integrity,  with  respect  to  myself ;  but  much  less  would  I  forgive  you^ 


1777]  INDIAN  JOUENAL.  Il5 

if  you  did  not  do  ample  justice  to  the  memory  of  Colonel'  Monson 
and  Sir  John  Clavering.  In  iheir  characters  you  have  a  nohle 
subiect  for  panegyric,  which  the  most  rancorous  malignity  cannot 
attribute  to  an  interested  motive.  The  praises  of  the  dead  will  be 
received  without  jealousy  or  distrust ;  and  if  you  are  envied,  it 
will  only  be  for  the  honour  of  having  erected  the  first  monument  to 
the  memory  of  such  men.  Tou  cannot  but  be  sensible  how  different 
my  situation  is  from  theirs,  nor  how  differently  the  same  actions 
ought  to  be  represented,  when  the  parties  concerned  in  them  are, 
and  when  they  are  not,  immediately  obnoxious  to  envy.  Tour  own 
reflections  will  easily  extend  these  words  into  a  volume. 

I  think  you  should  keep  your  design  as  secret  as  possible,  that 
you  may  be  at  hberty  to  publish  hereafter  without  your  name,  if  cir- 
cumstances should  make  it  advisable  for  you  to  conceal  it.  I  must 
on  my  own  account  desire  that  this  letter  may  rest  entirely  with 
yourself. 

The    Seahorse's  pacquet  arrived  this  morning,    and   we    expect 
Mr.  Wheler  every  day.     The  two  ships  parted  company  eight  days 
after  they  left  the  Cape.     Colonel  Watson  is  on  board  this  ship. 
I  am,  Sir, 

Your  most  obedient  hunable  servant, 

P.  Peancis. 

Journal. 

'■Nov.  2ith.  —  Show  Chambers  my  recommendation 
of  him  to  Lord  North.  He  pledges  himself  to  me  in 
return.  Meet  Impey  and  his  wife  there.  They  look 
a  httle  desolate. 

'  Dec.  1st — Council.  Barwell  absent.  Nobkissen  asserts 
that  he  is  highly  discontented  with  Hastings.  Communi- 
cate to  H.  my  minute  about  the  great  number  of  French 
ships  now  lying  at  Chandernagore.  H.  shuffles,  and  wUl 
not  put  the  question  to  the  chief  engineers,  &c.  His 
supineness  is  so  unaccountable,  that  I  almost  suspect 
treachery.^  Board  of  Trade  demand  140  lacks  for  next 
year's  investment.     H.  says  he  shall  give  it. 

'  At  this  time  French  hostilities  in  India  began  to  be  seriously  appre- 
hended at  Calcutta.  The  habitual  opposition  of  Francis  to  Hastings  rendered 
him  suspicious  of  every  movement  of  the  governor,  as  repeated  entries  in 
this  journal  show. 

I  2 


lie  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

'  2nd. — Barwell  absent.  Shameful  gratuities  to  Halhed 
and  young  Anderson.  I  tell  him  he  must  do  as  he 
likes  ;  that  I  object  to  all  increases  on  the  establishments. 

'  Srd. — Excellent  minute  from  Barwell  about  the  house. 
He  insists  on  the  necessity  of  some  trifling  distinction 
to  impress  his  rank  on  the  minds  of  the  people. 

'4iA. — Sup  at  Impey's.  Explanation  with  the  lady. 
She  swears  that  Hastings  has  deserted  them.  Complains 
of  his  ingratitude,  &c.  I  believe  their  hatred  is  suffi- 
ciently cordial,  but  there  are  some  ties  which  cannot  be 
dissolved.' 

We  learn  from  a  letter  (December  6)  to  Mrs.  Francis, 
that  Mrs.  Wheler,  the  latest  arrival  from  Europe,  in- 
troduced one  novelty  at  Calcutta.  'She  appeared  in 
public  for  the  first  time  at  our  ball,  the  night  before 
last,  in  wonderful  splendour.  At  sight  of  her  hoop  all 
our  beauties  stared  with  envy  and  admiration.  I  never 
saw  the  like  in  aU  my  life.' 

Journal. 

' Dec.  Qth. — At  Bristow's.  The  Governor  sends  Elliot^ 
to  meet  Mr.  Wheler.  I  send  Livius ;  carriages,  &c.  at 
Budge  Budge. 

'  7  th. — Bristow  resolves  to  go  to  England.  Duke  of 
Portland's  pacquet  arrives. 

'  10th. — Plowden  writes  me  word  that  Mr.  Wheler 
is  resolved  to   come  up  to  Calcutta  in  the  yacht.    By 

1  Alexander  Elliot,  so  frequently  mentioned  in  this  journal  and  in  the 
correspondence,  was  a  younger  brother  of  Sir  Gilbert ;  occupied  several  posts 
of  distinction  in  India ;  and  was  a  very  confidential  partisan  of  Hastings. 
His  cotemporaries  speak  in  the  highest  terms  of  his  abilities,  and  of  his 
powers  of  pleasing  and  of  management.  He  was  employed  in  various 
important  missions,  and  died  while  engaged  on  one  of  them  in  1779.  Hast- 
ings wrote  a  stanza  on  his  decease,  which  may  be  found  in  Gleig's  work; 
■but  (like  the  Governor-General's  other  compositions)  it  does  not  rise  above 
the  rank  of  ordinary  magazine  poetry. 


1777]  ARRIVAL  OF  WHELER.  117 

this  conduct  I  suppose  he  means  to  mediate,  but  in  the 
effect  nothing  could  be  more  decided  against  Hastings, 
nor  a  grosser  affront  to  him.  His  carriages,  with  Mr. 
Harwell's  fine  coach,  have  been  waiting  at  Budge  Budge 
these  four  days. 

'  11th. — In  spite  of  all  Mr.  Elliot's  courtship  and  artifices. 
Whaler  passes  by  Budge  Budge  and  lands  at  Calcutta, 
immediately  visits  H.,  B.  and  me,  and  takes  his  seat  at  the 
board.     I  go  to  his  house  and  have  a  long  confidential 
conversation  with  him.     On  the  whole  I  am  better  satis- 
fied with  him  than  he  is  with  his  situation.     It  cannot 
be  pleasant  to  him  to  meet  H.  and  B.  after  having  voted 
for   their  removal.      He   will   act   with   me   when   the 
occasion  demands  it,   but  I  believe  he  heartily  wishes 
that  no  such  occasion  may  occur.     He  magnifies  H.'s  in- 
terest at  home,  affects  to  think  that  Coote  will  not  come 
out,  and  that  no  decisive  step  will  be  taken  by  the  0. 
of  Drs.  notwithstanding  their  letter  to  Clavering.    I  treat 
everything  gently,   affecting   to  encourage  rather   than 
to   alarm  him.     Hastings   asks   me   to   dine   with  him 
to-morrow  for  the  first  time  these  thirty  months  ;  visit 
Mrs.  Wheler  in  the  evening. 

'  12th. — Eev.  Bd.  Barwell  absent.  Hastings  evidently 
mortified  at  being  left  alone  with  us  the  first  day ;  dine 
formally  with  the  Governor. 

'  ISth.  Wheler  taken  ill  of  a  fever. 
'  17th. — ^Again  he  desires  to  see  me,  and  gives  me  every 
assurance  of  confidence,  cordiality,  &c.  ;  that  Elliot  waited 
on  him  last  night  with  a  formal  embassy  fi:om  H.;  that 
he,  W.,  should  make  a  public  declaration  of  his  own 
moderation,  &c.,  and  convey  to  me  a  plan  of  accommo- 
dation ;  he  only  mentioned  two  of  the  articles  proposed : 
to  declare  the  Nabob  of  age,  i.e.,  to  remove  Mahomed 
Eeza  Cawn,  and  to  make  a  settlement  for  1778  on  the 


US  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1777 

present  footing.  My  answer  is,  that  I  can  enter  into 
no  compacts  ;  but  repeat  what  I  have  often  told  him, 
that  if  he  will  conduct  the  government  moderately  and 
without  innovations,  I  have  no  objection.  Meet  Elliot 
at  Mrs.  Hyde's ;  he  desires  a  conference,  fixed  for  to- 
morrow evening. 

'  I8th. — Wheler  absent.  I  begin  to  suspect  that  his 
illness  is  political.  Eobert  Stewart's  claim  adjusted. 
Bristow  sets  out  for  Madras  on  his  way  to  England. 
Elliot  comes  at  6.  His  talents  for  negotiation  are  really 
considerable,  formed  under  the  tuition  of  Macleane. 
He  proposes  an  avowed  coalition  with  Hastings,  and 
for  this  he  offers  me  almost  any  personal  terms  I  can 
desire.  Among  other  things,  he  asserts  that  this  is  th? 
earnest  wish  of  the  people  in  power  at  home,  and  that 
nothing  can  do  me  more  credit;  that  it  is  Wheler's 
disposition ;  and  that  if  I  will  consult  him  he  wiU  tell 
me  so.  I  absolutely  reject  the  idea  of  union,  but  declare 
my  resolution  to  stand  purely  on  the  defensive,  dissenting 
where  I  disapprove,  in  order  to  clear  myself  of  aU 
responsibility.  I  shall  give  him  my  final  answer  to- 
morrow. 

'  19th. — Wheler  attends.  I  meet  Elliot  everywhere. 
Offer  to  send  my  answer  in  writing,  which  he  declines. 
In  the  evening  give  him  a  short  flat  negative.  Take 
Wheler  to  visit  Impey  and  Chambers. — JST.  B.  Justice 
Chambers  entirely  approves  my  resolution. 

'  2ist. — Hastings  and  EUiot  go  privately  to  Wheler's. 
All  sorts  of  offers  and  arguments  to  induce  him  to  use 
his  influence  with  me.  This  he  declines,  and  refuses  for 
himself  to  enter  into  any  engagements. 

'  24:th. — Motion  by  H.  to  prosecute  the  plaintiffs  in 
the  Patna  cause  amended  by  me.  Morse  proposed  to 
conduct  the  cause,  a  childish  design  to  mortify  me  ;  par 


1777]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  119 

rapport  k  Tilghman.^  He  announces  his  design  to  extend 
the  present  settlement  to  the  ensuing  year.  -  Wheler 
declares  to  me  his  determination  to  oppose  in  both 
instances.     So  now  we  have  war  denounced  in  form. 

'  2bth. — Wretched  shabby  dinner  at  the  court-house. 
This  parsimony  is  attributed  to  Mrs.  Hastings. 

'  26iA. — Negotiations  from  H,  to  Wheler  continued. 

'  21  th. — Sup  at  the  Governor's.  Wheler  gives  me  a  most 
extraordinary  letter  he  had  received  from  H.,  which 
he  said  he  had  answered  in  person  to  avoid  a  corre- 
spondence. I  never  saw  so  silly  and  impudent  a  perform- 
ance ;  vide  letter.  W.  remains  immovable.  Consults 
now  with  none  but  Ducarel,  Chas.  Grant,  and  Livius. 

'  2>^th. — Curious  minute  from  H.  charging  Wheler  and 
me  with  a  concerted  plan  of  opposition,  &c.  I  sit  silent 
and  reserve  my  reply  for  the  evening.  So  war  is  declared, 
and  H.  himself  tells  the  world  that  W.  and  I  are  united. 
Visit  Wheler  in  the  evening ;  he  appears  cheerful  and 
steady. 

'  2>\st. — Circulate  my  answer  to  H.'s  minute  ;  hear  that 
the  Board  of  Trade  are  highly  offended  with  Charles 
Grant  for  the  information  they  suppose  him  to  have  given 
Mr.  Wheler. 

To  Mr.  GholwelV 

January  1,  1778. 
.  .  .  Mr.  Buller  shall  receive  every  mark  of  kindness  tliat  it  may 
be  in  my  power  to  show  him.  Ton  cannot  but  know  that  I  neither 
have  nor  have  had,  for  a  long  time,  any  share  or  influence  in  the 
patronage  of  this  government.  Those  gentlemen  to  whom  I  wish 
well  have,  I  fear,  been  prejudiced  by  their  attachment  to  me.  If  any 
event  should  restore  to  me  the  degree  of  influence  which  I  ought  to 
have  here  I  shall  not  forget  your  recommendation.     My  heartiest 


'  Who  was  beginning  to  practise  as  a  hamster  at  Calcutta. 
^  This  was  the  gentleman  who  had  declined,  in  1773,  the  post  of  Councillor 
afterwards  offered  to  Francis; 


120  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

good  wishes  wait  on  my  good  friend  Smith,  and  on  every  member 
of  the  St.  Alban's  society.  We  shall  meet  again,  I  trust — I  mean 
in  this  world — and  may  I  be  d — d  in  the  next  if  ever  I  venture 
myself  into  such  a  hell  as  this,  with  my  own  consent  at  least.  I  beg 
Dayrell  will  not  forget  me. 

...  I  certainly  am  obliged  to  you  for  my  post,  but  I  fancy  by 
this  time  you  are  quite  satisfied  that  you  did  not  take  it. 

To  Miss  Bristow. 

Calcutta,  January  6,  1778. 
Dear  Madam, — Tour  letter  of  March  24  did  not  reach  me  time 
enough  to  be  answered  by  the  Buropa  ;  but  our  friend  Miss  Frazer 
will  have  received  one  by  that  ship,  in  which  my  sentiments  on  the 
extraordinary  event  you  announce  to  me  are  sufficiently  explained. 
I  call  it  extraordinary,  not  because  it  is  uncommon,  but  because  I 
can  not  reconcile  it  to  certain  ideas  of  a  person  who  I  thought  was 
an  exception  to  vulgar  rules  and  vulgar  principles.  If  her  judge- 
ment should  have  failed  her  in  this  important  instance,  she  will  have 
no  excuse  to  plead ;  for,  I  presume,  it  will  not  be  said  that  her 
heart  has  misled  her.  If  there  be  any  asperity  in  this  reflection, 
I  do  assure  you  it  is  not  intended.  I  wish  to  hear  with  certainty 
that  her  happiness  is  established  by  this  arrangement,  though  it  is 
not  likely  that  I  should  ever  be  a  witness  of  it.  My  own  future 
destination  is  involved  in  obscurity.  If  I  am  to  remain  here  more 
than  two  years,  it  must  be  in  a  higher,  perhaps  in  a  more  uneasy, 
situation  than  I  stand  in  at  present.  It  is  possible  that  the  first 
letters,  after  General  Clavering's  death  is  known  in  England,  may 
either  recall  me  or  oblige  me  to  retire.  In  that  case,  I  may  have  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  you  early  in  1779.  After  what  has  already  passed 
in  this  country  there  is  no  event  to  which  I  can  not  easily  reconcile 
myself.  Whether  I  go  or  stay,  it  shall  be  with  honour.  Tour 
brother  is  so  well  able  to  explain  my  situation  to  you,  that  I  need 
not  add  anything  on  this  subject.  When  he  speaks  favourably  of 
your  friend,  as  I  persuade  myself  he  will  do,  encourage  every  disposi- 
tion you  may  feel  to  give  him  credit.  For  the  present,  I  trust  that 
I  shall  be  continued  in  your  good  graces,  and  that,  while  I  am 
engaged  in  the  battle,  you  will  take  part  for  me  as  a  friend.  When 
that  is  once  finally  decided,  I  shall  submit  myself  to  your  judgment. 
Preserve  me  carefully  in  the  memory  of  Miss  Frazer,  and  do  not 
allow  either  yourself  or  her  to  suppose  that,  whether  I  am  punctual 
in  repeating  the  assurances  of  my  attachment  or  not,  any  distance 
of  time  or  place  can  alter  it.     Tou  would  do  me  a  singular  favour 


1778]  "  INDIAN  JOUENAL.  121 

in  laying  my  humble  duty  at  the  feet   of  Miss  Frazer  and  Miss 
Sophy. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  the  greatest  truth  and  esteem., 
Dear  Madam,  your  most  faithful  servant, 

P.  Feancis. 
Journal. 

'  Jan.  1st,  1778. — Most  courteous  visit  from  H  ;  excuses 
himself  from  dining  at  the  court-house.     He  looks  iU. 

'  ^rd. — Formal  supper  at  Impey's  for  Mrs.  Wheler ; 
Mrs.  Hastings  sends  a  silly  excuse.  An  intended  shght  to 
Lady  Impey. 

'  \hih. — Nothing  is  thought  of  now  but  to  lavish  away 
the  money  in  the  Treasury  in  salaries,  &c.  to  all  their 
dependents.     I  oppose  it ;  vide  minute. 

'  22>rd. — Shore  again  appointed  to  take  the  manage- 
ment of  the  collections  of  Nuddea.  This  old  fellow  will 
not  even  pay  his  bribes,  and  Shore  must  appear  a  rod  of 
terror  held  over  him. 

'  2&th. — Hastings  this  day  records  a  pretended  plan  of 
accommodation  with  the  Marattas,  but  takes  it  home  for 
correction,  that  is,  to  prevent  my  seeing  it  time  enough  to 
make  any  remarks  before  the  Kingston  sails.  At  night  a 
long  conversation  with  Wheler,  open,  friendly  and  con- 
fidential in  the  highest  degree.  I  begin  to  love  this 
man.     Show  him  the  letter  from  M.  E.  C. 

'  30<A. — ^Ball  at  my  house. 

'  Feb.  2. — Grand  debate  on  the  Bombay  war.  Wheler 
and  I  divide  against  H.  and  B ;  vide  proceedings. 
Masquerade  at  the  play  house.' 

On  February  4  he  informs  his  friend  Godfrey,  in  a 
very  confidential  letter,  of  Bristowe's  intended  departure 
for  Europe.  '  He  is  keen,  inteUigent,  well  connected, 
and  attached  to  my  interests.  Au  reste,  if  you  happen  to 
like  him,  cultivate  his  acquaintance,  not  otherwise.  I  am 
now,  I  think,  in  the  road  to  the  government  of  Bengal, 


122  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

which  I  believe  is  the  first  situation  in  the  world  attain- 
able by  a  subject.  I  will  not  baulk  my  future  ;  if  that 
hope  be  disappointed,  I  shall  assuredly  not  stay  here 
beyond  the  expiration  of  the  present  commission ;  if  it 
succeeds,  you  will  probably  not  see  me  in  less  than  four 
years  from  this  time.  But  we  shall  be  still  young,  my 
friend,  with  the  means  and  powers  of  enjoyment.' 

Journal. 

'  Feh.  I'ith. — Eev.  Board.  Hastings  in  woeful  distress 
about  the  Patna  cause.  Strange  minutes.  Poolbundy  of 
Burdwan  given  for  two  years  to  Mr.  Fraser.  1  lack  20 
thousand  the  first,  and  80  thousand  the  second.  Job ;  job. 
This  is  a  wretch  of  the  lowest  order,  a  creature  and  distant 
relation^  of  Impey,  and  already  well  provided  for  in 
the  Supreme  Court.  The  present  shameless  contract  is  a 
clear  15,000/.  in  the  contractor's  pocket,  for  whose  real 
profit  I  submit  to  the  reader. 

'  IMi. — Barwell  absent.  Another  letter  from  the  B.  of 
Commerce  to  prove  that  they  have  a  surplus  cargo,  and 
now  Hastings  swears  that  he  was  always  perfectly 
sure  they  would  want  an  additional  ship,  as  I  was 
that  they  would  carry  the  point.  Curious  letter  from 
Bristow  of  the  30th  of  January.' 

Francis's  fortune  was  at  all  events  in  rapid  course 
of  accumulation.  It  appears,  by  a  letter  to  Chandler  of 
this  date,  that  he  remitted  10,000/.  home  in  the  preceding 
year. 

Journal. 

'  Feh.  20//i. — Barwell  absent.  Proposal  from  H.  to 
give  Halhed  30,000  rs.  for  his  Bengal  grammar ;  reduced 

'  Probably  of  Lady  Impey,  who  was  daughter  of  Dr.  James  Fraser,  con- 
nected with  the  baroness  of  that  name  who  married  Lord  Lovat.  Francis 
describes  this  Fraser  as  '  a  low  obscure  fellow,  and  not  long  ago  the  mate  of 
a  ship.' 


1778]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  123 

to  half  at  my  desire.  The  whole  day  spent  in  examining 
Holme  about  his  dispute  with  the  Calcutta  Committee. 
Fiddle  faddle.  Stibbert  and  Wlieler  dine  at  my  house. 
Hastings'  present  plan  is  to  buy  Coote  and  send  him  up 
to  the  army. 

'  21st. — Letter  proposed  by  H.  to  the  Presidency 
of  Bombay  sent  in  circulation  ;  vide  my  minute. 

'  22nd. — Conversation  with  Wheler  on  the  preceding 
subject.  We  agree  to  give  every  possible  opposition  to 
the  pernicious  measures  proposed  by  H. 

'  2Brd. — Debate  on  the  above  letter  with  as  much 
heat  and  passion  as  ever ;  vide  proceedings.  A  quali- 
fying postscript  forced  upon  them  by  me.  Letter  at  last 
produced  from  Mobarck-al-dowia  demanding  to  be  put 
in  possession  of  all  the  offices  held  by  Mahomed  Eeza 
Cawn.  H.  desires  our  opinions.  At  night  I  send  a  short 
account  of  all  these  transactions  to  my  Lord  North ;  vide 
letter. 

'■March  1st. — The  result  of  all  the  letters,  as  far  as 
I  can  find,  is  delay  and  suspense.  But  it  is  clear  that 
Coote'  wiU  not  arrive  before  the  first  ship  of  the  season, 
if  then. .  I  begin  to  doubt.  My  own  course,  however, 
is  clear  and  determined.  Mr.  Wedderburn's  letters  to 
me  and  Mackenzie  are  as  favourable  personally  to 
myself  as  I  could  wish. 

'  2nd. — Council.  Barwell  absent.  The  Nabob's  letter 
brought  on  by  the  secretary.  Wheler's  minute  and  mine 
read.  Hastings  declines  delivering  his  opinion  till  B. 
comes.  Wait  till  two  hours.  I  propose  to  him  to  defer 
the  question  till  this  day  fortnight.  After  a  great  deal 
of  soothing  and  moderation  on  my  part,  and  no  less 
passion  and  insolence  on  his,  I  insist  on  an  immediate 

'  Sir  Eyre  Coote,  despatched  to  India  as  councillor  to  succeed  Monson,  did 
not  arriye  at  Madras  vmtil  the  end  of  December  this  year  {vide  post). 


124  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

decision.  The  resolution  passed  accordingly  ;  vide  pro- 
ceedings. He  avows  his  determination  to  reverse  it. 
At  night  receive  a  most  comfortable  letter  from  Lord 
North,  dated  July  11,  1777.  All  right.  Send  Mackenzie 
to  Barwell  to  try  to  prevent  his  reversing  the  resolution. 

'  '6rd. — He  promises  to  do  his  utmost  vrith  Hastings ; 
but  now  I  care  very  little  what  either  of  them  do. 

'  17^A. — Santiram  Sing  sends  for  my  Banian,  and  desires 
him  to  inform  me  that  he  knows  and  can  prove  that  H. 
has  received  a  lack  and  a  half  from  the  young  Nabob 
and  the  Begum  for  the  late  arrangement,  and  that  he  also 
knows  and  can  prove  that  Bl.  pays  H.  every  month 
a  sum  of  money  from  20  to  30  thousand  rs.  a  month 
on  account  of  joint  profits ;  and  that  H.  professes  to 
receive  this  money  for  bills  on  England,  which  he 
says  he  gives  Barwell.  I  mention  all  these  circumstances 
to  Wheler. 

'  20th. — Santiram  Sing's  message  repeated  to  Wheler. 
Farrer,  going  to  England,  understands  my  cause  there 
heartUy;  informs  me  that  Nobkissen  told  him,  and 
probably  does  others,  that  I  have  received  money  through 
him,  also  from  Mahomed  Eeza  Cawn,  Baber,  Harwood, 
Higginson  and  Law ;  but  he  is  not  certain  of  Law. 
Here's  a  villain  for  you !  Commissioned  without  doubt 
by  H.  and  B.  to  vdnd  himself  into  my  confidence.  He 
shall  hear  of  it. 

'  24:th. — Barwell  gives  Farrer  a  most  conciliatory  letter 
of  introduction  to  his  sister,  and  writes  him  word  at  the 
same  time  that  he  shall  assuredly  follow  him  in  a  few 
months,  except  he  finds  he  can  stay  on  a  permanent 
ministerial  plan.     Farrer  showed  me  both  letters. 

'  April  24:th. — Eeceive  a  letter  from  Eumbold,^  inclosing 

'  At  Madras  :  sent  there  to  compose  the  anarchy  after  the  death  of  Lord 
Pigott. 


1778]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  125 

those  from  Lord  North  and  Eobinson  to  Sir  John 
Clavering ;  cold,  doubtful  and  unsatisfactory  in  the 
highest  degree.  Lord  North  seems  to  have  written  to 
Clavering  under  the  influence  of  an  ague  fit.  On  the 
contrary,  his  letter  to  me  is  friendly,  cordial  and  to  the 
purpose.-^ 

'  2hth. — ^Duck  shooting. 

'26^A.— Ditto. 

'  30^A. — Private  altercation  with  Hastings,  who  re- 
proaches me  with  my  last  minute  about  Webber ;  agree 
to  destroy  both  his  and  mine. 

'  May  bth. — E.  D.  Letter  from  the  Moorshedabad  Coun- 
cil recommending  a  settlement  with  the  Eanny  of  Eadshi 
for  two  years  at  23  lack,  &c.  I  see  she  has  taken  the  right 
course  at  last.  H.  hurries  the  settlement  of  this  zemin- 
dary  in  a  most  extraordinary  manner.  Money  !  money  ! 
and  no  time  to  be  lost ! 

'  9th. — Letter  from  Bombay,  April  5, 1778.  Eevolution 
at  Poona,  &c.  I  move  that  the  detachment  under  Leslie 
may  be  recalled. 

'  14:th. — I  stay  away  from  the  Board  of  Inspection. 
Letter  at  night  from  Madras,  with  news  from  London  of 
November  4th.  Washington  defeated,  &c.  Hastings 
had  this  news  (and  more  I  hope)  a  week  ago. 

'June  Qth. — Panton  leaves  Calcutta,  dissatisfied  with  H. 
and  B.  for  not  paying  him  the  freight  on  the  10  lack 
here.  Being  ashamed  or  afraid  to  do  it  themselves,  they 
have  thrown  that  difficulty  on  Eumbold.' 

The  following  characteristic  letter  from  Edmund  Burke 
to  his  kinsman  John,  apparently  forwarded  by  the  latter  to 
Prancis,  reached  him  about  this  time.  It  is  endorsed  by 
JohnB. :  '  Eeceived  Wednesday,  November  1777.'     I  am 

'  Ante,  p.  108  seemingly. 


126  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

not  aware  to  what  particular  paper  it  relates,  but  evidently- 
concerning  his  project  of  a  revenue  '  settlement.' 

My  dear  John, — I  give  you  a  thousand  thanks  for  the  papers  you 
have  been  so  good  as  to  put  iato  my  hands  ;  I  vp^ished  to  keep  them  a 
little  while  longer  ;  but  I  husbanded  ynj  time  as  well  as  I  could, 
and  when  my  company  went  to  bed  spent  the  greatest  part  of  the 
night  in  reading  them.  This  m.orning  I  went  through  the  whole. 
I  don't  know  that  I  ever  read  any  state  paper  drawn  with  more 
ability,  and  indeed  I  have  seldom  read  a  paper  of  any  kind  with 
more  pleasure. 

In  general,  I  perfectly  agree  with  Mr.  Francis,  that  a  nice  scrutiny 
into  the  property  and  tenures  of  an  whole  nation  is  almost  always 
more  alarming  to  the  people  than  advantageous  to  government.  It 
is  never  undertaken  without  some  suspicion  at  least  of  an  attempt 
to  impose  some  new  burthen  upon  them.  Mr.  F.  is  a  better  judge 
than  I  can  possibly  be  of  the  pohtics  which  have  given  rise  to  such 
a  measure.  Upon  that  subject,  therefore,  I  can  form  no  opinion, 
but  what  I  take  from  his  authority. 

The  idea  of  forcing  everything  to  an  artificial  equality,  has 
something,  at  first  view,  very  captivating  in  it.  It  has  all  the 
appearance  imaginable  of  justice  and  good  order  ;  and  very  many 
persons,  without  any  sort  of  partial  purposes,  have  been  led  to  adopt 
such  schemes,  and  to  pursue  them  with  great  earnestness  and 
warmth.  Though  I  have  no  doubt  that  the  minute,  laborious,  and 
very  expensive  cadastre  which  was  made  by  the  king  of  Sardinia 
has  done  no  sort  of  good,  and  that  after  all  his  pains  a  few  years 
will  restore  all  things  to  their  first  inequality,  yet  it  has  been  the 
admiration  of  half  the  reforming  financiers  of  Europe  ;  I  mean  the 
official  financiers,  as  well  as  the  speculative.  Tou  know  that  it  is 
this  very  rage  for  equality  which  has  blown  up  the  flame  of  this 
present  cursed  war  in  America.  I  am,  for  one,  entirely  satisfied 
that  the  inequality,  which  grows  out  of  the  nature  of  things,  by 
time,  custom,  successions,  accumulation,  permutation,  and  improve- 
ment of  property,  is  much  nearer  that  true  equality,  which  is  the 
foundation  of  equity  and  just  policy,  than  anything  which  can  be 
contrived  by  the  tricks  and  devices  of  human  skill.  What  does 
it  amount  to,  after  some  little  jumbling,  but  that  some  men  have 
better  estates  than  others  ?  I  am  certain  that  when  the  financial 
system  is  but  tolerably  planned  it  will  catch  property  in  spite  of  all 
its  doublings  ;  and  sooner  or  later  those  who  have  most  will  pay 
most,  and  there  is  the  efi"ective  equality  which  circumstances  will 
bring  about  of  themselves  if  they  are  left  to  their  ovra  operation. 

This  paper  of  Mr.  Francis  has  given  me  one  idea  which  I  had  not 


1778]         BUEKE-  ON  THE  REVENUE  SETTLEMENT.  127 

before  (indeed  it  has  given  me  several),  and  it  is  an  idea  wliicli 
aifords  me  satisfaction.  I  find  that  Mr.  Francis  thinks  that  the 
occupier  of  the  soil,  and  not  the  government,  is  the  true  proprietor 
of  the  land  in  Bengal.  I  did  understand  that  a  sort  of  custom  had 
given  them  a  preference,  but  that  on  the  whole  the  Zemindars  did 
not  stand  on  so  good  a  footing  as  our  copyholders  in  England,  or 
even  as  the  holder  of  church  leases.  Their  custom  of  annual 
letting  seemed  much  to  favour  this  notion.  I  am  glad  to  find  I 
was  mistaken,  for  whatever  the  practice  may  be,  I  am  sure  that 
every  thing  which  favours  the  stability  of  property  is  right,  and 
does  much  for  the  peace,  order,  and  civilisation  of  any  country. 

I  write  with  little  consideration,  and  less  knowledge  of  the  subject. 
We  make  an  hundred  blunders  in  a  matter  so  very  remote  from  our 
situation  and  our  local  circumstances  and  customs.  But  if  I  guess 
rashly  in  such  things  I  do  not  persevere  obstinately  in  my  errors.  I 
am  afraid  that  Mr.  Francis  begins  by  his  distance  to  make  very 
nearly  as  mistaken  judgments  on  our  affairs  here  as  we  do  on  his 
in  India.  He  thinks,  alas  !  that  Parliament  troubles  itself  with 
these  matters.  We  were  indeed  busy  enough  about  them  until  the 
East  India  Company  was  put  into  the  hands  of  the  court.  Since 
that  time  a  most  religious  silence  is  kept  about  those  affairs. 
Government  is  sure  to  throw  them  immediately  out,  if  any  one's 
forced  zeal  prompts  him  to  bring  them  before  us.  Nothing  but  the 
approaching  expiration  of  the  agreement  with  the  public  can  submit 
it  again  to  our  instrumental  consideration.  Something  then  will 
be  done,  if  more  can  be  done,  for  confirming  the  power  of  the  crown 
over  the  Company.  As  to  its  exterior  forms,  like  other  forms,  it 
will  I  fancy  be  suffered  to  continue. 

When  you  write  to  Mr.  Francis,  pray  put  him  in  mind  of  me  ; 
and  thank  him  for  his  permission  to  you  to  communicate  his  very 
valuable  paper,  of  which  I  neither  have  nor  shall  make  any  improper 
or  indiscreet  use.  I  have  written  to  him  a  letter  which  I  hope  will 
not  be  wholly  useless  about  the  first  object  of  my  heart,  our  friend 
WUliam  Burke.  You  are  happy  that  you  have  our  friend  Shee 
under  the  imm.ediate  protection  of  one  who  knows  so  well  what 
power  owes  to  friendship.  Adieu  !  my  dear  John  ;  my  hand  is  tired, 
but  it  is,  with  my  heart,  always  yours. 

Edmund  Bueke. 

D'Oyly  to  Francis. 

NoTember  28,  1777  :  received  June  28,  1778. 

Men  and  things,  my  friend,  sometimes  change  very  quick  in  this 

country.  You  have  written  some  very  fine  pieces,  that  will  hereafter 

be  read  and  respected.  But  Mr.  Hastings  having  among  his  friends  in 

this  country  a  very  large  majority  in.  Leadenhall  Street,  you  are  both 


128  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

allowed  to  be  good  -writers,  but  in  their  opinion  he  takes  the  lead 
so  decidedly  that  they  admit  of  no  comparison.  At  the  other  end 
of  the  town  so  very  few  can  be  induced  to  read  them  that  I  cannot 
wish  you  to  give  yourself  so  much  trouble  for  the  future.  Their 
minds  seem  to  me  very  unworthy  of  such  performances,  for  I  cannot 
find  that  they  have  made  any  impression  upon  them. 

....  I  conclude  that  everything  waits  till  we  hear  whether 
Hastings  abides  by  his  resignation  or  not.  I  cannot  talk  or  write 
on  that  pitiful  transaction  with  coolness ;  and  therefore,  till  I  hear 
how  it  has  ended,  1  will  be  silent. 

Lord  Barrimgtcm  to  Francis. 

Cavendish  Square,  November  18,  1777. 

Dear  Sir, — This  is  the  first  opportunity  I  have  had  of  acknowledg- 
ing your  kind  letter  of  13th  February  last,  or  of  sending  to  you  a 
large  packet  from  Sir  James  Stuart  (now  Denham)  entrusted  to  my 
care. 

It  gives  me  the  greatest  pleasure  to  find  that  you  and  Sir  John 
Clavering  continue  to  thiuk  and  act  together.  Reports  to  the  con- 
trary were  circulated  here,  but  I  did  not  believe  them  ;  your  letter 
has  enabled  me  to  correct  the  credulity  of  others.  I  most  sincerely 
pity  you  both  struggUng  so  long  ineffectually  for  what  is  right 
against  what  is  wrong  ;  and  I  love  you  both  so  much  that  I  cannot 
wish  you  to  continue  long  in  a  situation  so  painful,  though  so 
creditable  to  you.  I  hope  the  arrival  of  the  new  councillor  will 
give  you  a  useful  and  worthy  associate,  and  that  Mr.  Hastings' 
departure  from  India  will  give  his  successor  power  equal  to  his 
abiUties  and  virtue.  On  this  ground  only  I  wish  Sir  John  Claver- 
ing to  remain  in  India,  where  his  health  has  met  such  violent 
attacks  ;  I  am  happy  to  find  by  your  letter  that  his  constitution  has 
got  the  better  of  his  disease. 

The  accounts  you  send  me  of  what  was  passing  at  Madras  and 
Bombay  are  very  alarming  ;  I  hope  the  orders  sent  out  by  the  direc- 
tors with  Mr.  Rumbold,  however  full  of  absurdities,  may  restore 
peace  and  order  on  the  Coromandel  coast,  and  put  an  end  to  the 
danger  which  the  unhappy  disputes  betwixt  Lord  Pigot  and  his 
council  have  occasioned  in  India. 

At  the  time  I  am  writing  we  are  very  uncertain  as  to  what  is 
passing  in  America,  the  last  despatches  which  government  have 
received  from  our  generals  there  being  dated  in  August ;  but  I  think 
there  can  be  no  doubt  of  Sir  William  Howe's  having  beat  Washing- 
ton, and  being  in  possession  of  Philadelphia,  or  of  General  Burgoyne's 
having  obtained  considerable  advantage  over  Arnold  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Albany.     The  earnestness  with  which  I  long  for  a  conclusion 


1778]  COLONEL  LESLIE.  129 

of  this  war  is  not  to  be  expressed.     If  any  events  worthy  your 

knowledge  should  arrive  before  this  letter  goes,  I  will  add  a  postscript 

to  it.     I  do  not  see  any  danger  of  war  with  our  neighbours,  and  we 

are  united  and  quiet  at  home. 

I  am,  with  the  greatest  truth  and  regard,  dear  Sir, 

Tour  most  faithful,  obedient,  humble  servant, 

^  „       .    „  Baeeington. 

To  P.  Francis,  Esq. 

LuciMs  Smith  to  Francis. 

May  15,  1778. 

Colonel  Leshe  is  set  out  on  his  voyage  to  the  land  of  Ophir  ;  he 
will  assuredly  ease  the  country  of  half  a  million.  If  he  should 
double  it,  I  question  if  he  will  do  them  an  injury.  Money  has 
hitherto  been  the  source  of  all  their  ills.  The  love  of  that  shining 
delusion  has  ever  unsheathed  the  sword  of  every  daring  ruffian 
amongst  them,  and  drew  on  them  the  thunders  of  the  West.  I  think 
Providence  has  played  the  courtier  with  these  poor  creatures,  and 
smiled  upon  them  to  their  ruin.  Had  they  been  poor,  they  had  been 
free  and  happy. 

And  yet  what  will  this  old  gentleman  (Leslie)  do  with  his  money 
when  he  has,  by  immense  pains  and  immense  crimes,  gathered  it 
together  ?  Poor  are  the  privileges  of  fortune  to  an  old  man.  It  will 
not  create  a  new  sense,  or  restore  a  decayed  one.  It  will  also  be  too 
late  in  the  evening  with  him  to  change  his  Siberian  manners,  form 
new  connections,  and  begin  the  walks  of  ambition.  He  should  have 
been  content  with  the  just  fame  he  acquired  in  America,  where  he 
was  employed  in  a  situation  worthy  of  his  genius,  in  fixing  on  the 
proper  site  for  a  necessary  tent,  and  in  serving  out  old  shoes  and 
hats  unto  the  soldiers.  When  he  retires  to  Hibernia  with  his 
collected  sum,  he  will  hang  enamoured  over  his  bags  hke  Lust  and 
Impotency  over  Beauty ;  the  painful  guardian  of  it,  incapable  of 
enjoying,  and  resolved  that  no  other  shall.  For  so  great  is  old 
Leslie's  avarice  become  with  the  prospect  of  his  riches,  that  I  am 
well  persuaded,  was  there  a  turnpike  on  the  road  to  Heaven,  rather 
than  pay  one  poor  penny  to  go  through,  he  would  turn  back,  and  go 
to  Hell  with  pecuniary  satisfaction. 

Pardon  this  long  incoherent  letter,  written  in  the  short  intervals 

between  business  and  the  follies  of  a  camp.' 

I  am.  Sir,  with  respect. 

Tour  most  obedient  servant, 

„  „  „  L.  L.  Smith. 

Camp,  near  Cawnpore,  May  15,  1778. 

^  Colonel  Leslie,  the  hero  of  this  illnatured  description,  died  on  the  march 
in  Oct.  1778. 

VOL.  II.  K 


130  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

The  following  is  an  extract  of  a  letter  (May  20)  to  Sir 
John  Day,  at  Madras.  This  gentleman,  advocate-general 
to  the  Company,  was  one  of  the  firmest  allies  of  Francis 
throughout  his  stay  in  India.  His  detention  at  Madras,  on 
his  way  to  Bengal,  was  occasioned  by  an  enquiry  into  some 
of  the  extraordinary  proceedings  which  had  taken  place 
there,  already  alluded  to. 

I  fancy  you  indulge  yourself  in  looking  througli  tte  wrong  end  of 
the  glass  at  every  object  in  which,  you  are  interested.  As  far  as  I 
am  able  to  judge,  your  situation  in  India  would  appear  favourable 
enough  to  any  eye  but  your  own.  Tou  have  a  creditable  station  :  you 
have  three  thousand  a  year  ;  and  you  have  two  steady  friends  in  this 
Council.  Such  circumstances  as  these  might  make  Hfe  tolerable  at 
least,  if  not  happy.  But  the  disease  is  in  your  mind ;  and  you  must 
be  your  own  physician,  or  sink  under  it.  I  hate  the  thought,  for 
my  own  part,  of  dying  of  the  spleen  like  a  rat  in  a  hole.  If  I  had 
given  way  to  it  heretofore,  I  should  now  have  been  stretched  along- 
side Clavering,  Monson,  and  Lemaistre,  with  a  damned  liic  jaeet 
upon  my  heart,  and  some  Popham,^  perhaps,  trampling  upon  my 
grave,  or  writing  my  epitaph.  I  have  many  reasons  for  not  wishing 
to  die  in  Bengal :  among  the  rest,  I  know  my  death  would  give 
pleasure  to  people  to  whom  my  life  has  given  none,  and  whose 
private  wishes  I  am  unwilling  to  gratify.  A  reflection  of  this  kind, 
I  should  think,  would  brace  your  nerves.     J£  not,  paralysm  cave. 

'  Poor  Fitzpatrick,'  he  says  a  little  later,  to  the  same 
dispirited  correspondent,  '  whom,  if  you  remember,  you 
ought  to  revere,  often  showed  that  nothing  was  so  dan- 
gerous to  a  man's  happiness  as  prosperity.  He  said 
he  had  known  three  persons,  who,  having  gained  the 
twenty  thousand  prize  in  different  lotteries,  found  them- 
selves unable  to  support  their  spirits  under  such  severe 
good  fortune.  The  first  hanged  himself;  the  second 
drowned  himself;  the  third,  I  think,  married,  and  never 
held  up  his  head  afterwards.' 

'  A  person  at  Madras  who  had  brought  an  action  against  Sir  John  Day  for 
'  defamation '  on  account  of  something  which  took  place  in  the  discharge  of 
his  official  duties. 


1778]  INDIAN  JOUENAL.  131 

Journal. 

'  June  8th. — Bitter  news  from  America  (vifi,  Bombay) ; 
Bm-goyne  taken,  &c.  Hastings  and  almost  everybody 
here  in  high  triumph.  They  seem  to  consider  their  own 
security  as  united  with  the  ruin  of  the  Empire.  Council : 
warm  debate  between  H.  and  me  on  Leslie.  Vide  Pro- 
ceedings. 

'  11th. — Governor  moves  that  the  detachment  shall  stop 
but  be  held  in  readiness  to  march  on  immediate  warn,ing, 
&c.  A  warm  debate — vide  my  letter  to  Lord  North. 
Wheler  veiy  feeble !  Of  late  he  has  affected  moderation 
most  woefully ;  he  has  given  Osborne  a  letter  of  recom- 
mendation to  the  Nabob  of  Oude  ! ! ! !  ^ 

'  12th. — Motion  by  H.  for  restoring  the  Eanny  of 
Burdwan,  &c. — matchless  impudence  !  Vide  Proceedings. 
After  throwing  out  a  kind  of  challenge  to  me  about 
motives,  when  I  formally  accept  it  he  retires  without 
speaking  another  word.  It  is  the  universal  belief  and 
conversation  of  Calcutta  that  this  job  cost  the  Eanny  five 
lack. 

'-July  12th. — Sunday.  Long  visit  at  the  Gardens  from 
Elliot,  in  which  he  discovers  to  me  unadvisedly  the  extent 
of  H.'s  present  plan :  Eagoba  to  be  set  aside  ;  the  Go- 
vernment of  the  Paishwa  and  Ministry  to  be  demolished ; 
and  Moodajee  Boosla  constituted  sovereign  of  the  Mah- 
rattas. — A  pretty  scheme,  especially  at  the  commence- 
ment of  a  French  war !  A  great  deal  of  cajolery,  as 
usual,  from  Elliot. 

'  IBth. — Letter  from  Leslie,  June  24  :  not  yet  reached 
Chatterpoor  ;  must  fight  his  way. 

'  llth. — EUiot's  instructions  (for  a  mission  to  the 
Mahratta  country)  brought  to  me  by  Auriol  with  great 

'  No  doubt  regarded  by  Francis  as  an  enemy  of  his  friend  Bristow. 

K  2 


132  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1778 

affectation  of  mystery  ;  dispatch,  &c.  Draw  up  a  minute 
upon  it  and  give  it  to  Mr.  Wheler.  We  agree  in  sus- 
pecting Hastings  of  the  worst  designs.-^ 

'  18th. — Council.  Strong  minute  from  Wheler.  I 
read  mine  myself;  press  the  Governor  to  give  orders 
for  the  defence  of  the  river,  &c.,  and  furnish  him  with 
memoranda  of  what  ought  to  be  done  immediately.  I 
find  the  inhabitants  of  Calcutta  are  alarmed  at  seeing  no 
preparations  for  defence. 

'19^A. — News  from  Suez.  War  (with  Prance)  not  de- 
clared, but  every  probability  of  it.  Dead  silence  about 
Bengal.  I  cannot  find  that  the  Swallow  was  arrived. 
Wheler  and  I  determine  to  push  H.  to  take  vigorous 
measures  for  the  defence  of  Bengal. 

'■20th. — I  urge  Barwell  in  private  to  press  vigorous 
measures ;  he  agrees  with  me  in  every  point,  even  in 
opinion  of  H.'s  indolence  and  incapacity,  and  promises 
his  utmost  assistance.  I  use  every  art  and  comphance  in 
my  power  to  gain  upon  H.,  if  possible,  to  take  proper 
measures  of  defence.  Some  necessary  orders  given,  but 
the  man  is  bewildered  and  totally  unequal  to  the  task. 
H.  and  B.  refuse  to  obey  the  Compnay's  orders  relative  to 
the  reinstatement  of  young  Eowke  at  Benares. 

'  21st. — Eev.  Board.  Try  the  Berboom  cause.  Again 
I  press  H.  in  private  to  prepare  his  plan  of  defence,  and 
offer  my  concurrence  ;  he  promises  to  be  ready  on  Thurs- 
day. 

'  22nd. — ^I  prepare  a  plan,  with  the  assistance  of  Kydd 
and  Watson,  to  be  ready  with  it  to-morrow,  if  Hastings 
be  not. 

'  'Francis  and  Wheler,'  writes  Hastings  on  the  19th  to  Impey, 'have 
protested  against  Elliot's  instructions.  Francis  in  good  language,  but  abun- 
dantly weak  in  argument.  Wheler,  poor  fellow,  has  not  yet  got  hold  of  the 
subject.' 


1778]  .         CAPTAIN  JOSEPH  PRICE.  133 

'  2Brd. — Communicate  my  minute  privately  to  Barwell, 
who  approves,  and  says  I  do  right.  Finding  H.  proposes 
nothing  but  a  job  for  Joseph  Price,^  I  deliver  in  the 
minute — vide.  H.  very  much  wounded  by  it.  Send  it  at 
night  to  "Wheler,  who  cannot  attend  on  account  of  Mrs. 
Wheler's  illness.  H.  recommends  Captain  Plowden  to 
command  the  militia. 

'  24:th. — Wheler  sends  in  a  strong  minute  in  approba- 
tion of  mine.  H.  in  a  foam  of  rage.  High  words  be- 
tween H.  and  me.  I  charge  him  with  neglecting  the 
defence  of  Bengal.  Barwell  interposes.  Pearce  and 
Watson's  plans  approved.  Eoyal  Charlotte,  a  ship  be- 
longing to  Croftes,  taken  up,  and  the  Eesolution  put 
under  Joseph  Price  at  an  immoderate  expense — a  most 
infamous  job ! 

"■Aug.  10th. — I  see  the  game  clearly  over,  and  take  my 
own  resolutions  about  my  own  destination  accordingly. 
BarweU  absent. 

'  14ith. — I  shall  write  no  more  to  Lord  North.' 

It  is  conceivable  that  this  resolution,  to  write  no  more 

to  Lord  North,  may  have  been  partly  influenced  by  the 

foUowiag  letter,  which  must  have   been  by  this  time 

received : — 

D'Oyly  to  Francis. 

February  19,  1778. 
.  .  .  .  I  last  Friday  asked  and  obtained  leave  to  retire  from 
my  situation  in  tlie  Lord  Gr.  Germain's  office,  and  at  tliis  moment 
various  are  tlie  speculations  upon  it,  as  it  is  not  in  general  known 
tkat  leave  is  gone  to  Howe  to  give  up  Ms  command.  My  reasons 
for  giving  up  are  many,  but  must  not  be  trusted  in  a  letter.  The 
Mends  of  opposition  increase,  and  we  are  now  in  tlie  midst  of  an 
enquiry  into  tlie  state  of  tlie  nation  ;  in  short,  we  are  in  a  damned 


'■  Captain  Price,  the  author  of  certain  pamphlets,  often  quoted  for  the 
charges  which  they  contain  against  Francis.  See  post,  chap,  iii.  The  real 
origin  to  his  hostility  to  Francis  here  appears. 


134  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

bad  way,  and  I  wisli  I  was  at  Calcutta,  or  anywhere  but  bere.     Tour 
wife  and  family  are  well,  and  so  is  my  wife  and  greatly  yours.     To- 
morrow probably  we  sball  sit  to  six  in  the  following  morning. 
Adieu  ! 

Tours  ever  most  affectionately, 
Chk.  D'Otlt. 

The  following  playful  letter  from  his  old  friend,  the 
Eev.  WiUiam  AUen,  at  Lisbon,  seems  to  have  reached 
him  in  September  this  year. 

Lisbon,  February  20,  1 778. 
.  Tou  talk  to  me  of  coming  back.  I  guess  bow  matters 
will  go.  Tou  will  return  ricb,  and  cut  your  tbroat,  or  sboot  your- 
self tbrougb  tbe  bead  :  for  you  are  a  man  of  sense,  and  will  cboose 
tbe  latter  as  tbe  best  metbod.  Mucb  about  tbe  same  time  I  shall 
forge  a  note  upon  you  for  a  few  thousands,  and  be  detected  and 
hanged  at  Tyburn :  after  which,  your  good  son,  and  my  godson, 
in  memory  of  us,  will  go  by  the  name  of  Chve  Dodd  Francis.  Per- 
haps he  will  be  ennobled :  Baron  Dodd,  Earl  of  CHve,  with  a  pistol 
and  gallows  for  his  arms. 

Journal. 

'■Aug.  17th. — Motion  by  Barwell  to  reverse  Alexander's 
appointment  in  favour  of  Kydd.  H.  ashamed  to  propose 
it  himself. 

'  2Qth. — Council.  Violent  debate  about  the  Britannia. 
Complaint  from  the  Europe  captains  that  Jo.  Price  '  has 
taken  their  men.  H.  wiU  give  them  no  redress.  Wheler 
very  steady. 

1  I  am  not  sure  whether  this  is  the  transaction  thus  adverted  to  by  Mr. 
Impey  : — '  A  spirited  sea-captain — Captain  Joseph  Price — who  had  been 
taken  into  employment  by  Hastings  during  the  war  in  India,  who  had  ren- 
dered very  important  services  during  that  momentous  struggle,  and  who  had 
been  described  by  Francis  himself  ia  a  minute  of  Council  as  a  brave  and  an 
able  officer,  drew  down  upon  his  head  a  large  share  of  invective,  apparently 
for  no  better  reason  than  because  he  thought  Hastings  a  greater  man  than 
Francis.  While  yet  in  India,  Captain  Price  learned  that  Francis  had  entered 
something  very  defamatory  of  him  in  the  minutes  of  Council.  Forthwith  he 
had  a  meeting  with  Mr.  Shore,  at  that  time  a  friend  of  Francis,  who  offered 
to  wait  upon  the  latter  for  an  explanation.    Through  Shore,  Price  received 


1778]  INDIAN  JOUENAL.  135 

'  21ih. — Curious  conversation  with  Captain  Baird. 
Visit  the  Koyal  Charlotte  and  Eesolution.  Wheler  re- 
covers his  spirits. 

'  31st — Council.  Leslie  censured  for  his  delay  at 
Chatterpoor.  Both  H.  and  B.  profess  to  be  highly  dis- 
satisfied with  his  conduct.  B.  proposes  WombweU  to  be 
Paymaster  of  the  Nabob's  troops.  News  from  Pondicheri. 
Engagement  between  the  two  squadrons  on  the  10th. 

'  Sept.  nth. — H.  suffers  the  mihtia  to  sink  and  go  to 
nothing,  sooner  than  I  should  have  a  command  in  it. 
Ditto  the  new  marine.  Eichardson  tells  me  he  desires 
nothing  more  than  to  resign. 

'  21st. — Eemittance  to  China  determined,  to  be  open 
subscription.  I  propose  to  send  the  money  from  our 
treasury,  and  not  to  draw  on  the  Company.  Curious  de- 
bate :  vide  also  my  letter  to  G.  WombweU  on  this  subject. 

'  24:th. — Fresh  debate  about  the  remittance  to  China. 
B.  proposes  that  it  shall  be  given  to  the  lowest  bidders. 
Eesolution  deferred.  He  is  determined  to  have  it  all  to 
himself. 

'  Oct.  12th. — Council.  Barwell  absent.  Violent  quarrel 
with  H.  in  consequence  of  my  minute  of  this  day.     H. 

laments  his  ill-fortune  :  that  he  is  weary  of  his  life,  &c 

Vide  debate.  Leslie  recalled  :  the  detachment  to  proceed 
under  Goddard.  I  think  I  shall  give  him  checkmate  very 
soon.  Wheler's  minute  very  strong :  drawn  up  for  him 
by  Ducarel. 

'  18th. — Sunday.  Eeceived  letters  from  camp  at  Eaje- 
gur  of  October  2.  Leslie  taken  ill  of  a  bilious  fever  on  Sep- 
tember 27th :  his  recovery  not  expected.  Eains,  roads, 
provisions,  and  hostilities  with  the  country  powers.     It 

Francis's  answer,  that  the  animadversions  had  been  retracted  on  the  repre- 
sentations of  Hastings  and  other  members  of  Council.  '  No  such  thing,'  con- 
tinues the  frank  sailor,  '  they  were  permitted  to  be  entered  up  fair  on  the 
Company's  records,  and  three  months  afterwards  were  transmitted  to  Europe.' 


136  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

appears  plainly  that  H.  has  engaged  in  this  without  in- 
formation or  precaution  of  any  kind. 

'19iA. — Leslie  died  on  the  4th  inst.  Temporary  rank 
of  Colonel  given  to  Goddard.  Daniel  BarweU  reinstated 
assistant  to  the  Eesident  at  Benares* 

'  Nov.  bth. — Quarrel  between  the  judges  and  Hastings 
about  visiting  Sadut  Ally.  Chambers  tells  me  that  when 
H.  met  him  first  on  the  river,  he  advanced  in  a  little  boat 
and  presented  him  with  a  nazir — incredible !  H.  threatens 
to  go  all  lengths  against  the  Board  of  Trade,  if  they  refuse 
to  reinstate  Barton  I — Puff. 

'  Qth. — Impey  returns  from  Chittagong. 
'  8th. — ^Visit  Impey ;  find  he  went  early  to  spend  the 
day  with  Hastings.     Some  new  plot  afoot.     At  night  a 
letter  from  Eumbold  with   advice  of  the  surrender  of 
Pondicheri.  ' 

'  12th. — Salary  of  600  sicca  rupees  a  month  created  for 
young  Colebrooke.  Wheler  yields  to  it  as  a  compHment 
to  Sir  George  ;  la  raison  est  belle.  No  account  of  the 
capitulation  of  Pondicheri.  H.  begins  to  abuse  Munro,  &c. 
Eemittance  to  Nagpore  settled  for  the  detachment. 

'  ISth. — Question  of  law  proposed  to  the  Pundits  of 
Benares,  June  24.  Answered  according  to  my  opinion. 
Decision  carried  by  Wheler  and  me  against  H. 

'  17th. — Wheler  concurs.  Capitulation  of  Pondicheri 
received.  Hastings  expresses  the  highest  dissatisfaction 
at  the  terms,  and  proposes  to  Wheler  and  me  to  order 
them  to  destroy  the  fortifications  at  all  events,  with  a  de- 
claration that  they  shall  be  repaired  at  the  Company's 
expense  if  war  be  not  declared.  I  refuse.  He  means 
nothing  but  to  throw  a  slur  on  Eumbold  and  Munro, 
whose  conduct  towards  the  Nabob  I  suppose  has  offended 
him.     The  articles,  I  must  confess,  are  very  exceptionable, 


1778]  AFFAIR  AT  THE  HOUSE  OF  MR.  GRAND.  137 

but  the  event  is  of  moment  and  very  probably  may  save 
our  detacliment. 

'  28rd. — ^Ball  at  my  house — Hastings,  &c.  &c.  Motion 
from  H.  in  circulation  to  revoke  the  powers  given  to  the 
Presidency  of  Bombay  over  the  march  of  the  detachment. 
So  now  every  veil  is  removed.     Vide  Minutes. 

'  24:th. — Omnia  vincit  amor.  Job  for  Wood  the  salt 
agent. 

'  26iA. — Iniquitous  and  cruel  sentence  on  John  Butler, 
invalid.  Pearse  president.  Hastings  lets  him  down 
gently. 

'  Dec.  7  th. — Council.  Mr.  H.,  I  am  assured,  has  a  letter 
from  Goddard,  yet  not  a  word  said  about  him.  It  is 
rumoured  that  the  detachment  is  in  distress  at  Serouge. 
This  is  not  the  road  to  Nagpoor. 

'  8th. — Eev.  B.  Stout  orders  against  the  Eanny  of 
Burdwan  to  put  Gocul  Gosaul  in  possession  of  Polespoy. 
Some  deep  fetch,  I  am  sure,  to  hold  out  false  colours  about 
the  Eanny.  Calcutta  and  Gatton  arrive — Major  Baggs  on 
board  the  latter — il  ne  me  manquoit  que  cela.  General 
letter,  April  17 — profound  silence.  H.  says  the  Stafford 
was  at  the  Cape  and  was  going  to  Bombay.  At  night,  the 
diable  k  quatre  at  the  house  of  G.  E.  Grand,  Esq.' 

This  singular  announcement  introduces  us  to  a  very 
celebrated  episode  in  the  career  of  Francis.  It  has  been 
so  frequently  made  the  topic  of  commentary  already,  that, 
although  the  subject  is  of  a  class  best  avoided,  it  comes 
almost  of  necessity  within  the  province  of  the  biographer. 
Of  the  domestic  habits  of  Francis  in  the  earher  part  of  his 
career,  enough  has  already  been  said  ;  as  well  as  of  that 
kind  of  ostentatious  laxity  in  talk  and  writing  which  he 
inherited  from  a  bad  class  of  instructors.     Scandal  had  its 


138  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

say  about  him  during  his  first  years  in  India ;  but,  as  far 
as  the  minute  records  which  he  has  left  show,  without 
serious  foundation.  Mr.  Impey  indeed  says,  that  '  the 
author  of  Junius,  to  many  other  unamiable  quahties 
added  that  of  being  vain  of  his  reputation  as  un  homme 
aux  bonnes  fortunes  ;  this  formed  a  conspicuous  part  of 
that  levity  for  which  Mr.  Hastings  scorned  the  man.'  A 
singular  piece  of  censoriousness,  if  truly  repeated,  on  the 
part  of  the  husband  of  Mrs.  ImhofF.  But  Mr.  Impey 
writes  as  a  very  unmerciful  partisan,  and  I  have  not 
noticed  any  real  corroboration  of  his  statement. 

However,  in  1778  a  Swiss  gentleman  from  Lausanne, 
M.  George  Fran9ois  Grand,  came,  with  his  wife,  to  form 
a  part  of  society  at  Chandernagore  (where  he  seems  to 
have  been  estabhshed  in  business)  and  in  Calcutta.  His 
wife,  only  sixteen  years  old,  was  the  daughter  of  a  Mon- 
sieur Worlee  (of  Flemish  extraction  probably,  judging  by 
the  name)  Chevalier  of  S.  Louis,  and  Captain  of  the  Port 
at  the  French  settlement  of  Pondicherry,  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  which  (at  Tranquebar)  the  lady  was  born.  '  She 
was '  (says  the  author  of  the  article  in  the  '  Calcutta 
Eeview,'  so  frequently  cited) '  very  young  and  very  charm- 
ing. Her  picture,  painted  by  Zoffani,now  adorns  (1844) 
the  walls  of  Mr.  Marshman's  residence  at  Serampore. 
There  is  more  of  feminine  softness  than  of  strength  of 
character  in  her  fair  countenance ;  the  sensual  prevails 
everywhere  over  the  intellectual.'  ^ 

Francis's  papers  contain  no  record,  except  one  ominous 
scrap  of  Latin  quotation  (see  above,  November  24),  of  the 
early  history  of  his  passion  for  this  lady.  It  is  necessary 
to  pass  at  once  to  the  narrative,  such  as  it  is,  which  M. 
Grand  himself  has  given  of  the  scene  of  its  discovery.  This 

^  Another  picture  of  her  by  Gerard,  taken  at  a  much  later  period  of  her 
career,  adorns  the  MusiSe  at  Versailles. 


1778]  GRAND'S  NAEEATIVE!.  139 

is  contained  in   a  pamphlet,   which  he  is  said  to  have 
pubhshed  at  the  Cape   of   Good  Hope,  under  the  title 
'  Narrative  of  the  hfe  of  a  gentleman  long  resident  in 
India,'  under  circumstances  which  will  be  further  aUuded 
to  presently.     I  have  never  seen  this  very  scarce  produc- 
tion, and  quote  the  extracts  given  in  the  '  Calcutta  Eeview.' 
'  Here  I  must  pause  a  httle  to  call  my  reader's  attention 
to  contemplate  the  instability  of  human  happiness !     On 
December  8,  1778,  I  went  out  of  my  home  the  happiest, 
as  I  thought  myself,  of  men,  and  between   11  and  12 
o'clock  returned  the  same  night  to  it  as  miserable  as 
any  being  could  well  feel.     I  left  it  prepossessed  with  a 
sense  that  I  was  blessed  with  the  most  beautiful  as  well 
as  most  virtuous  of  wives,  ourselves  honoured  and  re- 
spected, hving  in  the  first  circles,  and  having  every  pro- 
spect of  speedy  advancement.     Scarcely  had  I  sat  down 
to  supper  at  my  benefactor  Mr.  Barwell's  society,  who 
required  of  his  friends  to  join  him  every  fortnight  at  this 
convivial  meeting,  than  I  was  suddenly  struck  with  the 
deepest  anguish  and  pain.     A  servant  who  was  in  the 
habit  of  attending  Mrs.  Grand  came  and  whispered  to 
me  that  Mr.  Francis  was  caught  in  my  house,  and  se- 
cured by  my  jemmadar  (an  upper  servant).     I  rose  up 
from  table,  ran  to  the  terrace,  where  grief,  by  a  flood  of 
tears,  reheved  itself  for  a  moment.     I  then  sent  for  a 
friend  out,  who  I  requested  to  accompany  me ;  but  the 
rank  of  the  party,  and  the  known  attachment  which,  as  I 
was  well  aware,  he  held  to  him,  however  he  execrated  his 
guilty  action,  pleaded  his  excuse  with  me.     I  collected 
myself,  so  much  as  circumstances  would  admit,  and  dis- 
patched the   servant  to  acquaint  the  jemmadar  I  was 
coming.     In  my  way,  I  thought  proper  to  call  on  my 
friend  Mr.  Palmer,  and  request  the  use  of  his  sword,  and 
to  attend  me  as  a  friend,  the  purpose  which  I  had  in  view 


140  MEMOIKS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

being  to  have  released  Mr.  Francis,  and  seeing  him  out 
of  my  premises,  compelled  him  to  have  measured  himself 
with  me  tiU  one  of  us  fell. 

'  Palmer  approved  of  my  determination,  and  we  re- 
paired to  the  spot.  The  porter,  hearing  my  voice, 
opened  the  gate,  and  in  my  lower  apartments  my  friend 
and  I  beheld  with  astonishment  the  present  Sir  George 
Shee,  bound  to  a  chair,  and  endeavouring  to  obtain  from 
my  servants  his  release,  with  Mr.  Shore,  now  Lord  Teign- 
mouth,  and  the  late  Mr.  Archdekin,  companions  to  him, 
joining  in  the  same  prayer  and  entreaty.  He  complained 
of  having  been  cruelly  treated  by  them.  My  jemma- 
dar,  however,  told  a  plain  tale :  it  was,  that  -he  had 
secured  Mr.  Francis  to  meet  the  vengeance  of  his  master, 
until  Mr.  Shee,  assisted  by  the  other  gentlemen,  upon  a 
loud  whistle  sounded  by  Mr.  Francis,  had  scaled  the  walls 
of  my  compound,  rushed  furiously  on  him,  and  in  the 
scuffle  occasioned  Mr.  Francis  to  escape.  I  asked  Mr. 
Shee  and  his  comrades,  in  the  presence  of  Mr.  Palmer,  if 
they  had  seen  Mr.  Francis  and  contributed  to  his  rescue  ; 
but  finding  that  I  could  only  draw  from  them  evasive 
answers,  with  a  declaration  that  what  had  actuated 
their  conduct  was  Mr.  Shee  running  over  to  Mr.  Ducarel's 
house,  loudly  calling  for  their  aid  to  prevent  their  friend 
Mr.  Francis  being  murdered,  they  had,  between  a  state  of 
sleeping  and  waking,  run  forward,  without  knowing  what 
they  were  doing,  I  ordered  in  consequence  their  release, 
and  leaving  my  house  to  the  care  of  my  faithful  jem- 
madar  and  servants,  I  retired  to  Major  Palmer's. 

'  Seated  on  a  chair,  borne  down  with  the  deepest  grief, 
I  anxiously  awaited  the  morning,  to  require  from  the  un- 
doer  of  my  happiness  the  satisfaction  which  the  laws  of 
honour  prescribe  as  a  poor  rehef  to  the  injury  committed. 
I  wrote  to  Mr.  Francis  that,  void  of  every  spark  of  prin- 


1778]  GRAND'S  NARRATIVE.  141 

ciple  and  honour  as  I  deemed  him,  still  I  trusted  he  would 
not  deny  me  the  meeting  which  I  summoned  him  to  im- 
mediately, with  any  friend  whom  he  might  choose  to 
bring.  His  reply  was  laconic  and  easy ;  it  was  couched 
in  these  terms  :  "  That,  conscious  of  having  done  me  no 
injury,  and  that  I  laboured  under  a  complete  mistake,  he 
begged  leave  to  decline  the  proposed  invitation ;  and  that 
he  had  the  honour  to  remain  my  most  obedient,  &c."  I 
now  returned  home,  sent  for  Mrs.  Grand's  brother-in-law 
and  sister  from  Chandernagore,  occupied  the  lower  apart- 
ments of  my  house,  whilst  Mrs.  Grand  remained  in  the 
upper,  and  on  the  Sunday  following  everything  was  ar- 
ranged for  Mrs.  Grand's  returning  with  them,  to  live 
under  their  mansion  and  protection,  myself  contributing 
what  was  requisite  for  her  support,  independent  of  the 
monthly  allowance  which  I  chose  to  allot  to  her  own  dis- 
posal. An  interview  was  entreated,  and  could  not  be 
denied.  It  lasted  three  hours,  interrupted  with  the  most 
poignant  lamentations.  I  heard  an  unvarnished  relation  of 
the  arts  employed  for  the  seduction  of  a  stranger,  and 
attained  only  to  her  sixteenth  year.  I  pitied  her  from 
my  heart.  I  sincerely  forgave  her,  and,  with  a  sorrow 
approaching  to  distraction,  we  parted. 

'  After  the  addition  of  insult  to  injury  which  I  had 
suffered  by  Mr.  Francis's  reply,  a  course  of  law  alone  re- 
mained open,  to  identify  the  person  and  punish  the  crime. 
This  I  had  recourse  to — not  without  experiencing  great 
diffictdty,  most  of  the  complaisant  advocates  of  the 
Supreme  Court  having  either  been  retained  by  him,  or 
intimidated  from  acting.  At  length  I  succeeded  with  one 
who  brought  the  process  to  a  successful  issue.  By  the 
testimony  of  Mr.  Shee,'-  Mr.  Archdekin,  and  others,  the 

'  Mr.  Sbee  was  a  great  friend  and  occasional  private  aeeretary  of  Francis, 
■whose  evidence,  according  to  M.  Grand,  was  very  unvrillingly  given. 


142  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

trespass  was  fully  proved,  and  the  trespasser  was  con- 
demned by  the  Bench  of  Judges  in  damages  of  50,000 
sicca  rupees,  with  costs  of  suit.' 

Francis  himself  always  maintained  that,  although  a 
lover,  he  had  then  not  been  a  successful  one  ;  and  (which 
is  of  more  importance)  this  view  was  taken  by  Mr. 
Chambers  (afterwards  Sir  Eobert,  the  friend  of  Dr. 
Johnson),  the  most  distinguished  of  the  three  judges,  who 
recorded  his  dissent  from  his  brethren  on  the  ground  of  in- 
sufficient evidence.  See  the  dissent,  at  length,  in  the  article 
of  the  '  Calcutta  Eeview,'  and  elsewhere.  On  any  supposi- 
tion, the  fact  of  Francis's  having  secured  the  company 
of  so  large  a  proportion  of  the  posse  societatis  of  Calcutta 
for  his  nocturnal  expedition  seems  strange  enough.  The 
well-known. story  that  when  Impey  named  50,000  rupees 
for  damages,  Hyde  interrupted  him  by  exclaiming, 
'  Siccas,  brother  Impey,  siccas  ! '  thereby  adding  a  con- 
siderable percentage  to  the  amount,  rests  on  no  other 
authority,  that  I  can  find,  but  the  club  gossip  of  Mr. 
Nicholls'  '  EecoUections.' 

The  lady  was  separated  from  her  husband,  and,  at  no 
distant  time,  had  resort  to  the  protection  of  Francis  ;  al- 
though he  never  waived  what  he  considered  the  respect 
due  to  his  position  by  receiving  her  into  his  establishment 
at  Calcutta.  I  do  not  doubt  that  the  frequent  bursts  of 
Latin  quotation  in  which,  after  this  time,  he  vents  his 
tender  emotions  in  his  Journal,  have  her  for  their  object. 
She  left  India  for  Europe  before  the  departure  of  Francis,^ 
and,  after  some  years  of  obscurity,  became  known  to  the 
world  in  a  novel  character. 

^  There  is  a  passage  in  one  of  Francis's  letters  to  an  intimate  friend  in 
India,  written  soon  after  his  return  to  England  in  1780,  which,  I  can  only- 
conjecture,  refers  to  this  lady.  'You  will  he  glad,' he  says,  to  '  hear  that 
(Blank)  is  established  at  Paris,  creditably,  in  the  society  of  Madame 
VanlSe.' 


1778]  TALLEYEAND'S  MAERIAGE.  143 

It  seems  probable  that  she  first  made  the  acquaintance, 
and  attracted  the  admiration,  of  Talleyrand  during  one 
of  his  visits  to  England  in  the  first  part  of  the  French 
Eevolution  ;  but  she  was  living  with  him  at  Hamburg  in 
1796.  Early  in  that  year  he  carried  her  to  Paris.  She 
was  arrested  there,  on  suspicion  of  being  connected  with 
emigrants  at  Hamburg ;  on  which  Tallejnrand  wrote  to 
the  Director  Barras  the  following  characteristic  letter  : — 

Citoyen  Directeur, — On  vient  d'arreter  Madame  Grand  comme 
conspiratrice.  C'est  la  personne  d'Europe  la  plus  eloignee  et  la 
plus  incapable  de  se  meler  d'aucune  affaire.  C'est  une  Indienne 
Hen  belle,  bien  paresseuse,  la  plus  desoccupee  de  toutes  les  femmes 
que  j'aie  jamais  rencontrees.  Je  vous  demande  interet  pour  elle.  Je 
I'aime  :  et  je  vons  atteste  a  vous,  d'homme  a  homme,  que  de  sa  vie 
elle  ne  s'est  melee  et  n'est  en  etat  de  se  meler  d'aucune  affaire.  C'est 
une  veritable  Indienne :  et  vous  savez  a  quel  degre  cette  espece  de 
fenunes  est  loin  de  toute  intrigue. 

Salut  et  attaclienient. 

Ch.  M.  Talletkand. 

Not  long  afterwards,  in  1798,  the  lady  obtained  a 
divorce  (according  to  the  law  of  repubhcan  France)  from 
her  husband,  M.  Grand. 

After  the  concordat  of  1801,  Talleyrand  procured 
from  the  Pope  a  dispensation  from  ecclesiastical  duties,  as 
well  as  a  remission  of  the  excommunication  under  which 
he  lay.  The  ex-bishop  construed  this  as  a  permission  to 
marry,  and  espoused  Madame  Grand  accordingly.  They 
were  married  by  the  cur^  of  Epinay ;  ^  but  the  Pope  en- 
tirely disavowed  the  proceeding,  and  the  Emperor  would 
not  receive  Madame  Talleyrand  at  court.     From  a  pas- 

^  In  the  Acte  de  Mariage  between  Talleyrand  and  her,  dated  Sept.  10, 
1802,  she  is  described  as  '  Catherine  Noel  Worl^e,  &g6e  de  39  ans,  n^e  a 
Tranquebar,  Colonie  Banoise,  le  21  Nov.  1762,  fiUe  de  Pierre  Worl^e 
et  de  Laurence  Allancy  son  Spouse,  tous  deux  dSc^d^s,  Spouse  divorcee  de 
George  Frangois  Grand  par  acte  prononc6  a  la  mairie  du  2eme  arrondissement 
de  Paris,  le  18  germinal,  an  6  (1798).' 


144  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

sage  in  his  St.  Helena  recollections,  it  would  seem  that  he 
estimated  the  lady's  capacity  for  mixing  in  intrigues  but 
little  higher  than  her  husband  did.  '  J'ai  defendu  I'entr^e 
de  ma  cour  k  cette  femme,  premierement  parceque  sa 
reputation  ^tait  decriee,  et  parceque  j'ai  decouvert  que 
quelques  marchands  genois  lui  avaient  paye  400,000 
francs  dans  I'esperance  d'obtenir  par  I'entremise  de  son 
mari  quelques  faveurs  commerciales.  Elle  ^tait  tres-belle 
femme,  des  Indes  orientales,  mais  sotte  et  de  la  plus  par- 
faite  ignorance.'  Talleyrand  amused  himself  with  many 
a  jest  on  her  betise  ;  and  the  story,  whether  true  or  not, 
was  generally  circulated,  how  she  took  the  traveller 
Humboldt  for  Eobinson  Crusoe,  and  asked  him  after  his 
man  Friday.  But  M.  Michaud,  from  whose  account  in 
the  Biographie  Universelle  this  sketch  is  partly  extracted, 
says  that  he  had  occasion  frequently  to  talk  with  her 
about  political  events,  and  that  her  conversation  was  by 
no  means  that  of  a  fool. 

The  Princess  of  Benevento,  as  slie  was  now  styled,  hved 
apart  from  her  husband  during  the  latter  years  of  his  life, 
when  he  thought  proper  to  parade  in  so  exemplary 
a  manner  his  respect  for  religion  and  '  les  bonnes  mceurs,' 
and  changed  the  phrase,  in  his  autobiographical  '  Testa- 
ment,' '  Delie  par  le  venerable  Pie  VH.,  j'etais  hbre  de 
contracter  mariage  '  into  '  je  me  croyais  hbre.'  She  died, 
at  a  very  advanced  age,  some  time  before  him,  and 
was  buried  in  the  Cimetiere  du  Mont-Parnasse. 

As  for  the  injured  husband,  M.  Grand,  he  found  his 
way  to  Paris  in  1801,  and  is  said  (by  Mr.  Impey)  to  have 
employed  the  influence  of  his  wife,  now  Madame  de 
Talleyrand,  to  obtain  some  appointment  under  the  French 
Government.  Whether  in  this  way  or  otherwise,  he 
was  made  '  Privy  Counsellor  to  the  Government  of  the 
Cape  of  Good  Hope '  under  the  Batavian  Eepublic.    Sir 


1778]  LADY  FRANCIS'S  ACCOUNT.  145 

James  Mackintosli  saw  him  there  in  1812  ;  'a  gentleman- 
Hke  old  man.'  He  is  said  to  have  married  again  in  1814. 
'  After  the  peace  of  Paris,'  says  Mr.  Impey,  in  his  Hfe  of 
his  father  Sir  Ehjah, '  he  came  to  London  ;  so  did  Madame 
la  Princesse  de  Benevento.  His  object  was  to  publish  the 
particidars  of  the  lady's  life  at  Calcutta,  in  revenge  for 
his  disappointment  at  Batavia  (?) ;  hers,  to  seek  redress 
for  the  pubhcation.  I  saw  it :  it  was  a  paltry  book, 
printed  at  the  Cape.  They  both  applied  to  me.  I 
advised  the  author  to  suppress  his  work,  and  the  Princess 
not  to  go  to  law.  This  advice,  of  course,  was  very 
unpalatable  to  both ;  the  lady  took  a  legal  opinion,  and 
the  gentleman  took  himself  off  What  became  of  him 
since  I  know  not ;  but  the  libel  shortly  disappeared, 
and  the  matter  seems  to  have  ended  as  amicably  as  before.' 

To  complete  the  story,  I  will  add  the  account  of  it 
given  by  Francis  himself  to  his  second  wife,  as  reported 
by  her  in  her  miscellaneous  recollections.  It  is  of  course 
to  be  remembered  that  it  is  the  tale  of  Francis  himself — 
that  it  is  told  to  a  wife — and  that  it  is  recounted  by  a 
very  romantic  lady. 

'Mrs.  Grand  was  at  that  time  the  most  beautiful 
woman  in  Calcutta.  She  was  tall,  most  elegantly  formed, 
the  stature  of  a  nymph,  a  complexion  of  unequalled 
delicacy,  and  auburn  hair  of  the  most  luxuriant  profusion ; 
fine  blue  eyes,  with  black  eyelashes  and  brows,  gave  her 
countenance  a  most  piquant  singularity.  This  beautiful 
creature  had  the  misfortune  to  be  married  to  a  dirty  old 
sordid  Frenchman,  who  treated  her  very  ill,  and  having 
lost  a  good  deal  of  money  at  play — which  was  then 
carried  to  a  great  extent  at  Calcutta — looked  out  for  the 
best  opportunity  of  repairing  it,  and  was  not  very  parti- 
cular about  the  means.  Mr.  F.  soon  distinguished  this 
fair  lady,  but  from  principle  or  pride  she  rejected  all  his 

VOL.  11.  L 


146  MEMOIES  OF  SIK  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

entreaties,  and,  though  not  displeased  to  be  admired,  threw 
him  into  despair  by  the  steadiness  of  her  refusals.  His 
contempt  for  the  husband  and  regret  for  the  ill-fated 
•beauty  made  such  an  addition  to  his  passion  that,  finding 
her  implacable  after  a  long  siege,  he  fell  into  a  fever, 
which  lasted  him  six  months.  ...  I  know  she  thought 
it  probable,  as  his  wife  was  older  than  himself,  and  her 
own  husband  not  likely  to  trouble  her  long,  that  some 
time  or  other  they  should  be  united.  .  .  .  She  had  re- 
solution to  struggle  against  her  own  inclinations.  .  .  . 
Her  pity  so  far  worked  upon  her  for  her  to  consent  to  his 
coming  one  night — when  her  husband  was  absent — to  her 
house,  accompanied  by  a  friend ;  but  she  bid  him  be  on 
his  guard  as,  in  case  she  was  discovered,  her  husband 
would  be  capable  of  taking  a  very  severe  revenge.  He 
went  to  the  house,'  the  narrative  proceeds,  '  accompanied 
by  his  friend  Ducarel,  who  waited  outside,  and  was  ex- 
hausting, though  in  vain,  all  the  artillery  of  a  lovers 
protestations,  when  he  was  surrounded  by  a  set  of 
ruffians  with  whom  her  husband,  who  had  been  only 
absent  as  a  plot  to  draw  Mx.  Francis  into  the  house, 
had  seen  him  go  in,  having  previously  laid  a  plot  to 
sacrifice  his  wife  for  the  sake  of  obtaining  damages,  had 
suffered  them  to  remain  together  a  considerable  time  to 
make  his  own  dishonour  complete,  which  he  concluded 
was  effected.  Had  Mr.  F.  had  his  sword  on,  he  said, 
some  of  them  would  have  paid  dearly  for  their  attack  ;  but 
they  having  taken  care  to  possess  themselves  of  it,  and 
being  armed,  forced  him  into  another  apartment  where 
they  held  him  down  in  a  chair  whilst  Mr.  G.,  with  all  the 
airs  of  injured  honour,  called  for  a  pistol  to  take  away  the 
life  of  the  man  who  had  dared  to  attack  it.  Meantime, 
the  lady,  who  was  locked  in  her  room  and  did  not  expect 
that  her  lover  would  escape  with  hfe,  called  out  of  the 


1778]  LADY  FRANCIS'S  ACCOUNT.  147 

window  to  Mr.  Ducarel,  "  For  God's  sake  come — they  are 
murdering  him,"  who,  without  waiting  for  another  word, 
very  resolutely  rushed  into  the  house  among  the  gang,  who, 
seeing  another  gentleman  sword  in  hand  and  not  knowing 
whether  there  might  not  be  more,  relaxed  their  hold  and 
began  to  prepare  for  their  defence.  Upon  seeing  Ducarel, 
his  friend  threw  oiF  those  about  him,  who  were  glad  to 
take  refuge  in  flight,  and  the  two  adventurers  made  an 
orderly  retreat.' 

After  recounting  the  circumstances  of  the  trial,  Lady 
Francis  proceeds :  '  The  consequence  might  have  been 
easily  foreseen,  and  probably  was  much  more  afflicting  to 
her  than  her  lover.  With  a  character  entirely  destroyed, 
she  was  thrown  upon  his  protection.  Mr.  Francis  had 
too  great  a  regard  for  public  decency  ever  to  live  in  the 
house  with  her,  and  she  appeared  to  show  always  such  a 
wish  to  I'eturn  to  the  paths  of  honour  and  innocence,  that 
though  she  always  retained  her  aifection  to  him,  yet 
whenever  the  circumstances  of  life  enabled  her  to  put 
herself  under  the  protection  of  respectable  women,  she 
always  did  it,  and  conducted  herself  with  so  much  pro- 
priety and  decorum  in  life,  as  to  secure  a  most  brilhant 
establishment  in  marriage,  and  the  protection  of  the 
respectable  Josephine.  On  Mr.  F.'s  return  to  England 
she  went  to  France :  they  kept  up  a  correspondence  by 
letters,  and  he  several  times  went  to  Paris  and  Spa  to 
have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  her,  but  her  conduct  cannot 
be  too  much  praised  when  we  find  that  she  constantly 
resisted  the  temptation  of  renewing  the  improper  part  of 
her  intercourse  with  him.  She  had  thrown  herself  into  the 
care  of  two  respectable  ladies,  and  though  with  little  to 
support  her,  except  from  their  kindness,  she  refused  all 
the  services  with  which  Mr.  F.  would  have  gladly  acknow- 
ledged the  sacrifices  she  had  made  for  him :  she  had  no 

L   2 


148  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

Other  attachment,  and  he  had  no  reason  to  doubt  her 
constancy  to  him.' 

She  came  to  England  at  a  later  period.  'At  the 
commencement  of  the  Eevolution,  he  was  walking  one 
day,  and  suddenly  met  her;  she  tried  to  avoid  him. 
Having  been  driven  from  France  with  the  other  emigrants, 
and  having  her  own  resolution,  she  had  determined  to 
remain  concealed  from  him  while  in  this  country.'^  He 
said  her  understanding  was  much  better  than  the  world 
allowed :  her  education  had  been  neglected :  but  her 
firmness  in  returning  to  the  paths  of  propriety,  which  was 
so  difficult  in  her  situation,  pursued  by  the  man  she  loved, 
was  a  convincing  proof  of  it.' 

After  alluding  to  Madame  Grand's  captivation  of 
Talleyrand — and  also,  if  her  ladyship's  scandal  may  be 
believed,  of  her  quondam  judge,  Sir  Ehjah  Impey,  when 
on  a  visit  to  Paris — she  proceeds  :  '  Mr.  E.  was  informed 
of  all  that  passed  at  that  time  in  Paris,  and  was  in  it  part 
of  the  time  when  she,  being  upon  the  point  of  mar- 
riage with  the  second  man  in  regard  to  power  in  that 
Empire,  received  the  submission  of  Sir  Elijah  at  that 
visit,  which  Mr.  E.  made  without  being  aware  of  the 
present  prospects  of  the  lady.  He  received  a  message  from 
her  through  a  very  worthy  gentleman,  a  mutual  friend  of 
both  in  Europe  and  India,  which  informed  him  of  the 
situation  she  was  in,  and  that  it  would  probably  give 
offence  to  the  suitor  if  he  made  any  attempt  to  see  her, 
and  that  to  avoid  all  possibility  of  accidental  meeting,  she 
should  go  a  little  excursion  into  the  country.  Mr.  P. 
sent  an  answer,  that  he  begged  her  to  be  assured  that  it 
was  his  pleasure  to  hear  of  any  circumstance  that  would 
contribute  to  that  happiness  which  she  so  well  deserved, 

'  It  might  be  suggested  in  reply,  that  it  was  at  this  time  (apparently) 
that  she  made  acquaintance  with  Talleyrand,  who  subsequently  took  her 
under  his  protection  before  he  married  her. 


1778]  LADY  FRANCIS'S  ACCOUNT,  149 

and  lie  so  much  desired  to  hear  she  possessed,  that  her 
least  wishes  would  always  be  laws  to  him,  and  that  he 
should  not  now  or  ever  intrude  upon  her  presence  ;  except 
in  case  of  any  change  of  situation  she  would  accept  his 
services,  when  she  would  find  that  his  esteem  and  regard 
were  unaltered.  As  the  marriage  was  to  take  place  soon, 
and  he  thought  that  his  remaining  in  Paris  might  be  an 
embarrassment,  he  left  it  sooner  than  he  intended  on  this 
account.  He  was  obhged  to  meet  ihefutur  at  this  and 
other  places  :  it  was  during  the  short  peace  with  France 
(of  Amiens).  .  .  .  He  was  not  to  be  supposed  to  be 
acquainted  with  the  obscure  gossiping  of  India  above 
twenty  years  before,  who  had  the  destiny  of  Europe  under 
him  :  but  Mr.  F.  confessed  that  he  did  not  look  graciously 
at  him,  was  short  and  sulky  in  his  manner,  and  turned 
upon  him  as  soon  as  possible ;  his  master  had  received 
him  in  a  much  more  pleasing  way.  .  .  -  He  did  not 
like  him  (Talleyrand)  the  better  for  his  separation  from 
her,  and  the  small  allowance  which,  it  is  reported,  he 
confines  her  to.  .  .  .  Mr.  Francis  never  saw  her 
after  her  marriage ;  and  the  only  intercourse  that  took 
place  was  a  few  elegant  books  which  she  sent  him,  with 
a  short  note,  merely  to  teU  him  that  she  had  not  forgotten 
him.  The  dread  of  losing  them '  (his  recollections  of  her) 
'  in  sad  realities  prevented  him,  I  believe,  from  wishing  to 
see  or  be  seen  by  her  on  her  last  visit  to  England,  as  he 
heard  from  those  of  his  friends  who  renewed  their  ac- 
quaintance with  her  that  it  was  impossible  to  recognise 
all  those  Venus-like  charms  which  were  celebrated  from 
the  Indus  to  the  Ganges,  and  inspired  his  muse  on  the 
banks  of  the  Seine  and  the  Thames.' 

Only  one  incident  remains  to  be  added  to  this  curious 
history.  Mr.  Impey,  in  the  life  of  his  father.  Sir  Elijah, 
says :    '  Among  the  persons  whom  we  met  in  the  very 


150  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

mixed  society  of  Paris  (in  1801)  was  the  ci-devant 
Mrs.  Le  Grand,  who  had  lately  been  married  to  Talleyrand. 
My  father  renewed  his  old  acquaintance  with  her ;  and, 
through  the  lady,  he  became  sufficiently  intimate  with  her 
husband  to  be  one  of  the  Englishmen  most  frequently 
invited  to  his  table.  ...  At  her  charming  villa  of 
Neuilly  were  to  be  met  foreigners  from  every  country  and 
court  in  Europe.  At  one  of  these  assemblies,  myself  being 
present,  this  remarkable  rencontre  took  place,  of  persons 
not  likely  ever  to  have  met  beneath  the  same  roof,  under 
any  circumstances  less  fortuitous.  These  persons  were : 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fox,  Sir  Elijah  and  Lady  Impey,  M. 
and  Madame  de  Talleyrand,  Sir  Philip  Fi'ancis,  and 
M.  le  Grand  I '  Assuredly  no  novelist,  in  his  boldest 
flight,  would  have  dared  to  bring  together  a  collection 
of  personages  so  strangely  connected  with  each  other. 

Francis  complains  bitterly,  in  his  private  correspon- 
dence, of  the  indecent  part  taken  in  the  matter  by 
Hastings,  who  brought  this  'wretched  business,'  as  he 
declares,  repeatedly  to  the  notice  of  the  Council.  He 
wrote  also  to  Lord  North  on  the  subject ;  and  professed 
at  first  his  intention  to  appeal  against  the  judgment  of 
the  majority  of  the  Supreme  Court ;  but  abandoned  it, 
as  he  says,  on  the  ground  of  expense  and  delay,  and  also 
because  he  had  reason  to  believe  that  Impey  and  the 
Chancellor  (Lord  Thurlow)  were  '  sworn  friends.' 

Journal. 
'  Dec.  llih. — Major  Baggs  arrives  in  the  evening.  Sir 
E.  Coote  certainly  gone  to  Bombay.  Advice  from  Eng- 
land, vouched  by  him,  in  the  highest  degree  flattering  to 
me  and  full  of  hopes.  ^  But,  alas !  I  have  been  trained  in 
the  school  of  disappointment. 

•  According  to  Francis's  private  letters,  Baggs  brought  him  assurances 
from  Sir  Eyre  Coote,  on  his  way  to  India,  that  Mr.  Francis  -would  he 
appointed  Governor. 


1779]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  151 

'  12th. — Handsome  behaviour  of  Wheler  against  the 
clamour  of  this  cursed  place. 

'  l^th. — H.  and  B.  mean  enough  to  send  that  business 
home  to  the  Court  of  Directors. 

'  21st. — -Intentions.  Also  a  copy  of  a  letter  from  M. 
Bd.  to  Goddard,  dated  November  23rd,  containing  a  detail 
of  the  preparations  making  to  oppose  him  and  the  great 
difficulties  and  dangers  to  which  his  march  would  be 
exposed  ;  in  short,  in  plain  terms,  declining  to  take  part 
with  him — a  most  curious  and  extraordinary  letter  !  On 
this  I  move  two  questions,  carried  in  the  negative  ;  though 
they  hardly  amounted  to  more  than  whether  two  and  two 
make  four — vide  debate.  In  the  course  of  it  Mr.  H.  told 
us  that  M.  Bd.  had  lately  been  at  the  point  of  death,  and 
that  it  would  be  of  no  consequence,  as  his  son  was 
the  real  Eaja  of  Berar,  and  Moodajee  no  more  thJin 
his  deputy.  All  this  lying  shows  his  distress. 
■  '/ara.  25th,  1779. — He  delivers  in  a  curious  minute, 
conjuring  Bar  well  to  retract  his  declaration  of  the  11th 
inst.  and  to  stay  and  support  him  against  Mr.  Wheler  ahd 
me.     I  answer  him  at  the  Board — vide  minutes. 

^26th. — Noble  quarrel  at  the  Eevenue  Board  with  H. 
He  says  that  /  may  repent  it,  that  he  won't  hear  it,  &c. 
I  tell  him  it  rests  with  him.  At  night  letters  from  Madras 
of  the  8th.  Coote  indisposed.  Engagement  between 
Keppel  and  the  French  fleet  on  the  27th  July. 

'  2^th. — Eiot  at  the  Court-house,  supposed  to  be  pro- 
moted by  H.  and  Sadut  AUy.  Impey  absent. 
•  ^  Feb.  7th. — Letter  from  me  to  Sir  Eyre  Coote,  dated 
January  the  18th — everything  I  could  wish.  South- 
ampton arrived  at  last  with  Sir  John  Day  (he  had  been 
appointed  Advocate-General). 

'  8th. — Deliver  in  my  minute  in  answer  to  H.'s  proposi- 
tions of  the  4th — vide.  Sir  John  Day  arrives.  Insidious- 
question  put  by  H.  about  saluting  him. 


152  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

'  ISth. — Embassies  of  all  ranks  and  colours. 

'  14:th. — Going  down  to  meet  Sir  Eyre  Coote.  Ironside 
confirms  to  me  the  truth  of  an  anecdote  (his  receiving 
two  lack  of  rupees  from  Cossim  Ally  Cawn  through  Mr. 
Vansittart  in  1762)  about  Sir  E.  C.  in  the  government 
of  Mr.  Vansittart — vide  my  narrative.  Barwell  I  am 
assured  is  going  to  meet  him.' 

To  Godfrey^ 

February  16,  1779. 
We  have  six  armies  in  the  field.  We  have  quarrelled  with  all 
India.  We  have  squandered  at  least  a  million  of  the  Company's 
money.  And  ia  this  state,  if  not  a  worse,  Mr.  H.  will  leave  the 
government.  Occupet  extremum  scabies,  or  the  devil  take  the 
hindmost,  is  now  his  device. 

Journal. 

^  March  6th. — Judgment  against  me  in  the  Supreme 
Court. 

'  Ibth. — I  move  that  orders  may  be  sent  to  Bombay 
not  to  renew  hostilities,  &c. — rejected  by  the  majority. 

'  nth. — Letter  received  from  Bombay  of  February  3rd, 
plainly  announcing  their  intention  to  renew  the  war,  and 
denying  the  validity  of  the  engagements  made  by  Carnac 
and  Egerton.  Otherwise  this  letter  leaves  us  as  much  in 
the  dark  as  ever. 

'  18th. — Council.  Preceding  letter  read.  I  renew  my 
proposition  of  the  15th — rejected — vide  debate.  Bead 
letter  from  Fort  St.  George  of  the  25th  of  February. 
I  record  my  opinion  that  we  ought  to  send  them  a 
supply  of  money.  H.  moves  ihat  orders  may  be  sent  to 
Colonel  Goddard  to  confine  his  attention  to  the  protection 
of  Bombay,  to  take  care  not  to  involve  himself  or  this 
government  in  the  responsibihty  of  their  acts,  remem- 
bering that  he  is  independent  of  their  authority  and  solely 
under  ours. 


1779]  ARRIVAL  OF  COOTE.  153 

"■Tlnd. — Council.  Mr.  Barwell  says  that  he  now  under- 
stands it  to  be  current  at  Madras,  that  Sir  Eyre  Coote 
will  not  sail  before  the  arrival  of  the  first  Europe  ship, 
and  that  the  Nabob  had  presented  him  with  a  star  and 
epaulette  of  very  rich  diamonds;  but  this  he  supposes 
to  be  scandal. — N.B.  The  fact  is  public  and  could  not 
be  matter  of  doubt  with  Mr.  Barwell.  I  find  they  are 
all  highly  pleased  with  taking  this  present.  At  night 
advice  of  the  arrival  of  the  Stafford,  Eoyal  Henry,  and 
Britannia.' 

The  next  entry  informs  us  of  the  arrival  of  Sir  Eyre 
Coote,  who  came  to  succeed  Clavering  both  in  Council 
and  in  the  command  of  the  forces. 

Journal. 

'■March  2Srd. — Only  H.  and  I  present — parted  imme- 
diately. Sir  Eyre  Coote  arrives  in  the  afternoon.  He  passed 
by  Barwell,  who  waited  for  him  at  Budgebudge.  I 
visited  him  immediately.  Charming  bustle.  No  particu- 
lar conversation.' 

The  judgment  which  Francis  formed  of  his  new  col- 
league will  soon  appear.  Coote  (so  he  considered)  had 
flattered  him  with  hopes  both  of  his  support  in  Council, 
and  submission  to  him  as  the  future  Governor-general, 
and  had  afterwards  gone  over  to  the  side  of  Hastings. 
This  is  plainly  disclosed  in  a  curious  work  to  be  noticed 
in  another  chapter,  of  which  the  Indian  part  was  written 
either  by  or  at  the  instigation  of  Francis :  '  Travels  in 
Europe,  Asia,  and  Africa  '  (attributed  to  a  Mr.  Macintosh), 
letter  56. 

Journal. 

^  March  24.th. — Sir  Eyre  Coote  sworn  in.  15  lack  sent 
to  Madras  notwithstanding  all  Mr.  H.  had  said  against  it. 


154  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

I  see  they  are  at  his  feet.  He  professes  a  desire  to 
please  every  body,  but  I  fancy  he  will  soon  find  that 
impracticable.  They  have  invested  him  completely.  He 
requests  that  Captain  Hutchinson  may  be  returned  to 
Madras  for  the  China  voyage — granted  of  course.  Job 
the  first. 

'25!tA. — No  Council.  Sir  E.  C.  &c.  dine  with  me. 
He  explains  himself  liberally  enough  to  me  about  future 
conduct,  my  credit  in  England,  and  his  wish  to  establish 
a  friendship  and  confidence  between  us.  At  the  same 
time  I  see  no  inclination  in  him  to  act.  H  paroit  tres 
bien  dispos^  k  tenir  la  balance  et  k  en  profiter.  Nous 
verrons.     Au  reste,  ce  sont  les  discours  de  Caton. 

'  2Qth. — Sir  E.  C.  recommends  Tom  Law  for  the  Calcutta 
commerce.  Job  the  second.  At  his  request,  H.  recom- 
mends Eichardson  to  a  seat  in  the  same  committee.  Job 
the  third.  When  are  we  to  turn  our  eyes  to  the  pubhc 
service  ?  I  appoint  an  hour  with  him  to-morrow,  and  am 
determined  to  come  to  a  clearance.  At,  proh  dii  deseque 
omnes,  what  infernal  slavery  is  this  ! 

,  '  21  th. — At  night  a  conversation  of  near  three  hours 
with  Sir  E.  C.  in  which  I  give  him  my  opinion  at  large, 
of  the  state  of  the  government  and  country,  of  persons, 
parties,  characters,  interests,  &c.,  without  reserve.  I  find 
we  are  nearly  agreed. 

'■April  13iA.  — Sir  E.  C.  applies  to  be  put  in  possession, 
of  Gyretti  House  and  ground  under  pretence  of  a  grant, 
supposed  to  have  been  obtained  for  him  from  Cossim 
Ally  in  1762,  by  the  mediation  and  sohcitation  of  Mr. 
Hastings,  and  for  the  reality  of  which  Mr.  H.  now  vouches. 
The  period  they  both  fix  on  is  remarkable,  considering 
that  Colonel  Coote  at  that  time  was  in  open  professed 
enmity  with  Cossim  Ally,  Vansittart,  and  Hastings.  The 
famous  letter  to  the  Court  of  Directors  was  signed  by 


1779]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  155 

Coote,  Carnac,  &c.  on  Marcli  11, 1762,  and  in  that  month 
H.  was  deputed  to  Cossim  Ally  to  Sarseram — Granted  of 
course.' 

The  following  is  from  a  facetious  correspondent  in 
Bengal  (a  lawyer  as  it  seems  from  another  part  of  the 
letter),  who  signs  himself  D.,  but  whom  I  cannot  identify. 
Sir  John  Day  (?) 

March  31,  1779. 
'  I  was  in  pursuit  of  you  last  nigM  near  two  hours  without 
success.  I  went  first  to  your  '  villa  inter  paludes,'  where  I  found 
not  the  smallest  vestige  of  society.  I  then  returned  to  town,  and 
quitting  my  chariot,  I  took  to  my  litter  and  proceeded  in  it  to  your 
house  near  the  Capitol,  where,  to  my  utter  astonishment,  I  found  the 
same  appearance  of  desertion  and  desolation.  It  struck  me,  that 
you  might  have  repassed  the  Rubicon,  and  with  your  slaves  have 
gone  again  upon  some  private  plan  of  pleasure  into  ^  Cisalpine 
Gaul. 

While  I  was  ruminating  upon  these  things  a  ^  Ligurian  tax- 
gatherer  whom  I  remember  to  have  seen  among  your  followers, 
informed  me,  that  having  been  forced  by  certain  putrid  exhalations 
from  the  marshes  in  which  your  villa  stands  to  discontinue  your 
weekly  symposium  there,  and  having  at  a  late  meeting  at  Nasidumus 
drank  too  deeply  of  Falemian,  you  had  retired  with  two  females 
(Contemplation  and  Temperance),  with  whom  you  had  been  very 
lately  made  acquainted,  to  the  gardens  of  Eufillus,'  near  the  fourth 
stone  on  the  Falernian  Way,  to  enjoy  with  him  and  his  freed  main 
Petronius  Macer''  '  the  feast  of  reason  and  the  flow  of  soul.' 

To  gather  cockle-shells — 

Hunt  butterflies — or 
prepare    yourself  for  the   more   momentous    matter  that  may  be 
debated  in  the  senate  this  day. 

Though  you  may  have  no  new  charge  against  Yerres,  Crassus  you 
know  came  down  from  Antium  yesterday,  and  means  to  propose 
a  largess  to  the  people  in  order  to  allay  the  present  heats,  and  to 
recommend  to  the  senate  this  day  certain  military  regulations  for 
restoring  the  discipline  of  the  armies — in  the  Provinces.  A  s  the 
latter  is  a  subject  which  in  the  earlier  part  of  your  life  has 
employed  your  thoughts  and  pen,  I  shall  not  be  surprised  if  I  shall 


'  Chandernagore.  *  Mack — 

"  Livius.  '  Watts, 


156  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

hear,  tliat  you  have  animadverted  upon  these  regulations  with  that 
vivida  vis  animi  that  marks  your  manner,  the  more  especially  as  I 
know  you  do  not  much  affect  the  man. 

[Hiatus.] 
I  had  been  reading  Pliny's  Letters  this  morning,  and  in  humble 
imitation  of  his  manner  had  scribbled  the  above,  which  I  think  you 
will  scarcely  understand. 

Journal. 

'■April  l^th. — Council.  Coote,  I  think,  is  very  much 
dejected.    First  brigade  remanded  into  cantonments. 

'  May  bth. — Eeceived  a  letter  this  day  from  the  Judges 
complaining  of  the  riot  which  happened  on  January  29, 
and  pointing  out  a  Nabob  as  the  author  of  it,  viz.  Sadut 
Ally.  It  is  to  be  remarked  that  this  letter  has  been  kept 
back  on  purpose  till  after  the  departure  of  the  ships,  that 
an  affair  in  which  Sadut  Ally  appears  to  be  concerned 
might  not  be  mentioned  to  the  Court  of  Directors. 
Horsley  visits  me  at  night. 

'  7th. — Taking  notice  to  Hastings  in  conversation  of 
the  ruinous  state  of  affairs  on  the  two  coasts,  he  made  the 
following  declaration  verbatim.  (N.B.  I  wrote  it  down 
immediately.)  "Yes,  sir,  and  we  shall  be  ruined  too.  I 
promise  you  that  this  government  is  in  a  much  nearer 
way  to  ruin  than  either  the  Carnatic  or  Bombay.  We 
have  nothing  left  but  to  reduce  our  navy  and  army,  and 
to  contract  all  our  expenses  within  the  narrowest  compass 
possible." 

'  Mem. — ^Two  days  ago,  the  worthy  Nobkissen  desired 
a  private  interview  with  Ducarel  at  Chitpore,  in  which  he 
lamented  the  loss  of  my  favour,  &c.,  asserted  the  constancy 
of  his  attachment  to  me,  and  offered  to  bring  over  Coote, 
with  whom  he  pretends  to  be  all  powerful ;  in  short,  there 
is  nothing  he  wishes  for  so  much  as  to  see  me  and  recon- 
cile himself.     Videbimus. 


1779]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  '      157 

'  May  l^th. — Council.  Coote  present.  Letter  from 
Middleton,  that  having  obtained  the  Governor's  leave,  he 
had  quitted  his  station  and  dehvered  over  charge  to 
Gregory.  This  is  the  first  overt  act  of  the  conspiracy 
between  H.  and  C.  to  give  this  appointment  to  Hosea, 
who  I  suppose  is  now  at  Lucknow.  I  deny  the  Go- 
vernor's authority  to  give  the  leave  of  absence.  Debate 
thereupon.  Coote,  endeavouring  to  trim,  talks  nonsense 
as  usual. 

'  Wth. — Eev.  Board.  Question  for  prosecuting  Nan- 
dera  Begum  for  perjury  carried  in  the  negative.  H.,  F., 
and  C.  against  Barwell.  Carnac's  detachment  and  Price's 
ships  recalled  at  last.  Coote  vapours  stoutly  against  the 
people  of  Bombay.  Hastings  wants  to  do  nothing,  in 
order  to  screen  Hornby.     Coote  returns  to  Ghiretti. 

'•I'dth. — The  weather  for  this  fortnight  past  has  been 
intensely  hot.  At  this  day,  I  think,  every  circumstance  of 
my  situation  is  as  bad  as  it  can  be.  Any  change  must  mend 
it.  Coote,  I  find,  is  despised  by  all  parties,  his  faculties — 
if  ever  he  had  any — are  gone.  He  loiters  with  his  wife 
at  Ghiretti  and  is  fit  for  nothing  else.  II  faut  une  grande 
course  pour  madame,  apres  quoi  le  pauvre  diable  n'a  plus 
qu'a  mourir.  L'insense  s'amuse  k  arranger  sa  maison  et  ses 
jardins  k  Ghiretti,  comme  s'il  avoit  encore  un  siecle  kvivre.' 

From  Joseph  FowJce. 

Chintserra  (Chinsviia),  May  U,  1 779. 

Dear  Sir, — Tour  time  is  so  muoh  better  employed  in  the  council 
chamber  than  in  answering  my  idle  letters  that  I  think  I  have  a  sin 
to  answer  for  when  I  attempt  to  draw  you  from  your  duty,  but 
situated  as  I  am,  you  are  not  to  wonder  that  I  seek  for  consolation 
in  the  quarter  where  I  am  most  likely  to  receive  it. 

I  pass  my  hours  here  much  more  to  my  satisfaction  than  I 
expected.  Mr.  Ross  and  his  lady  both  show  me  and  my  family 
every  mark  of  civility  in  their  power,  and  in  all  the  essentials  of 
pohteness  would  not  be  outdone  by  the  pupils  of  Chesterfield  him- 
self.    I  have  the  same  acknowledgments  to  make  to  Baron  Dunkel- 


158  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

man,  who  is  an  entertaining  and  agreeable  man.  There  is  a  small 
difference  in  our  years,  but  nevertheless  he  is  a  good  playfellow  for 
me,  the  noble  game  of  chess  levelling  all  distinctions  of  age  or  sex. 
Pray  cultivate  this  amusement  that  you  may  play  yourself  into  a 
pleasing  forgetfulness  if  the  world  should  ever  happen  to  use  you  as 
ill  as  it  has  used  me.  The  Baron  finds  me  employment  three  days 
in  the  week,  for  which  charitable  office  I  shall  pray  for  him  all  the 
remaining  days  of  my  life. 

I  hope  you  have  made  up  your  mind  against  all  disappointments. 
I  will  tell  you  honestly,  I  expect  no  good  news  from  Europe.  There 
is  no  good  reason  to  suppose  that  a  power  which  has  supported 
itself  triumphantly  for  five  years  against  the  most  formidable  attacks, 
should  fail  at  this  present  moment.  For  myself  I  am  prepared  to 
meet  the  worst ;  I  have  done  my  duty  and  have  nothing  to  reproach 
myself  with.  This  is  a  reflection  which  ever  will  be  a  support  to 
me  in  the  severest  place  of  trials.  Armed  with  this  shield,  nor 
Coote,  nor  Hastings  nor  Barwell,  shall  ever  enjoy  the  sweet  satis- 
faction of  making  an  honest  man  miserable. 

What  a  pretty  jumble  will  your  Bombay  afiairs  make  upon  your 
consultations !  What  intrigue !  What  quibble !  Follow  the 
straight  road  and  you  must  ever  remain  secure.  The  time  must 
come,  sooner  or  later,  when  Falsity  must  hide  its  head. 

Remember  me  cordially  to  Mr.  Tilghman,  but  never  consult  but 
when  you  are  angry. 

I  am,  dear  Sir,  your  faithful  servant, 

Joseph  Fowke. 

The  next  letter  from  Edmund  Burke  to  Francis  is  printed 
in  Burke's  works,  vol.  i.  p.  351,  ed.  1852.  It  is  chiefly 
on  European  and  American  politics.  The  two  following 
important  ones  from  England  were  received  by  him 
shortly  after  this  time,  still  feeding  hopes  destined  only  to 
disappointment. 

Welhore  Ellis  to  Francis. 

Deeemter  20,  1778. 
....  This  letter  will  be  conveyed  to  you  by  Captain  Penny,  who 
commands  one  of  the  men-of-war  destiued  to  sail  under  the  command 
of  Sir  Edward  Hughes  ;  who  has  desired  me  to  give  him  a  letter  of 
introduction  to  you,  by  which  no  more  is  meant  than  a  civil  reception, 
when  you  happen  to  see  company.  He  is  an  honest  man,  I  believe, 
and  a  good  seaman,  and  has  the  good  fortune  to  be  a  Weymouth . 


1778]  LETTER  FROM  MR.  ELLIS.  159 

man,  for  wMcli  place  I  have  the  honour  to  serve.  Nothing  has  yet 
been  decided  by  Government  relating  to  the  territorial  possessions 
of  the  India  Company,  and  of  consequence  to  the  form  of  government 
to  be  established  there ;  yet  in  next  October  the  Act  which  consti- 
tutes the  Supreme  Council  vsdll  expire.  A  very  good  abstract  has 
been  made  of  all  the  opinions  which  have  been  transmitted  ia  all 
the  dispatches  from  Mr.  Hastings,  and  Mr.  Barwell,  General  Claver- 
ing,  Mr.  Monson,  and  you ;  as  also  from  the  Judges  upon  every 
branch  of  government,  and  all  well  digested  under  their  respective 
heads,  which  I  have  seen,  but  no  resolution  has  yet  been  formed.  I 
now  come  to  my  conjectures.  I  imagine  that  it  will  end  in  a  parti- 
cipation of  the  revenues.  I  likewise  suspect  that  something  re- 
sembling the  present  form  of  government  by  a  Supreme  Council  will 
be  adopted,  but  the  exact  mode  I  cannot  describe,  because  all  is  but 
conjecture.  I  imagine  that  both  Company  and  Government  are 
very  sensible  of  your  diligence,  your  knowledge  and  abilities,  but 
that  the  latter  is  more  disposed  to  support  you  than  the  former,  and 
this  arises  not  from  a  different  estimation  of  your  knowledge  and 
talents,  but  from  a  particular  competition  of  interests.  I  will  answer 
for  nothing,  but  I  am  inclined  to  believe  that  Government  intends  to 
support  your  pretensions,  and  if,  in  the  plan  to  be  adopted,  it  shall 
take  that  leading  part  which  it  ought  to  do,  that  you  vnll  not  be 
superseded,  but  that  you  will  be  put  at  the  head  of  affairs,  unless 
Government  should  think  fit  to  put  some  man  of  great  rank  and 
dignity  at  the  head  of  the  Governnaent,  and  then  I  suppose  that  they 
would  look  to  you  as  the  efficient  man  of  business,  and  consider  of 
the  means  to  make  that  situation  agreeable  to  you.  If  this  last 
should  not  be  the  measure,  I  have,  I  think,  reason  to  belibve  that  you 

will  fill  the  Chair.     But  if  the  should  prevail  to  have  their 

option,  I  much  fear  that  particular  interests  would  control  both 
their  opiuion  of  you  and  the  inclinations  of  Government  to  you.  But  I 
beg  you  to  observe  that  this  is  all  mere  conjecture,  and  he  must  have 
better  eyes  than  mine,  who  can  see  his  way  through  the  present 
obscurity.  As  St.  Paul  says,  '  What  I  have,  give  I  unto  you.'  But 
if  I  might  presume  to  advise,  I  would  wish  you  not  to  commit  your- 
self by  any  hasty  resolution ;  wait  to  see  your  way  clearly  before 
you.  Ton  hazard  nothiug  by  patience  ;  don't  act  upon  reports, 
suggestions  or  surmises  ;  wait  to  see  facts  with  all  their  circum- 
stances. A  resolution  is  not  less  wise  or  honourable  for  its  being 
delayed  until  we  are  sure  there  can  be  no  good  reason  to  repent  it ; 
and  in  most  cases  which  concern  ourselves,  we  may  often  command 
the  time  of  our  acting,  when  we  can  command  nothing  else.  I  will  only 
add  upon  this  subject,  that  what  Httle  aid  or  support  so  weak  a  hand 


160  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1778 

as  mine  can  give  witli  those  wlio  now  govern  here,  I  shall  continue 
to  give  with  zeal  and  sincerity,  both  on  your  own  account  and  that 
of  the  public. 

I  am  much  obKged  to  you  for  the  support  you  have  given  to  poor 
Webber,  and  request  the  favour  of  your  continuing  to  afford  him 
your  protection.  I  take  the  liberty,  which  I  hope  you  will  excuse, 
of  writing  a  letter  to  him  under  your  cover,  because  I  do  not  know 
where  to  direct  to  him.  We  suppose  you  at  this  time  to  be  masters 
of  the  French  settlem.ents  in  India,  but  we  are  much  alarmed  at  the 
march  of  Colonel  Lesley,  and  fear  for  the  fate  of  that  army  ;  though 
we  rather  incline  to  the  measure  of  supporting,  at  this  time,  of 
Ragobaw,  as  being  contrary  to  the  views  of  Prance  in  that  part  of 
the  world.  I  hope  that  long  before  the  writing  of  this  letter,  Sir 
Eyre  Coote  will  be  arrived,  and  that  you  will  have  had  the  comfort 
of  his  support,  and  that  consequently  the  majority  is  where  it  should 
be.  Lest  you  should  not  have  received  my  former  letters,  iu  which 
those  thanks  are  contained,  Mrs.  Ellis  desires  me  to  repeat  her 
thanks  to  you  for  your  noble  and  agreeable  present  of  otto  of  roses. 
Lord  Barrington  would  have  most  willingly  joined  our  strength 
to  have  procured  Lady  Clavering  some  assistance  from  the  Crown 
by  way  of  pension  ;  but  the  high  spirit  of  Sir  Thomas  would  not 
allow  us.  I  don't  find  that  he  has  made  up  the  difference  by  any 
bounty  of  his  own. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  great  truth  and  regard, 

Dear  Sir, 
Tour  most  obedient  and  most  humble  servant, 

W.  Ellis. 

Lord  Barrington  to  Francis. 

Cavendish  Square,  December  25,  1778. 
Dear  Sir, — In  a  former  letter  I  acquainted  you  that  about  two 
years  and  a  half  ago  I  begged  the  King's  leave  to  quit  the  War  Office 
and  Parhament  whenever  it  should  suit  his  Majesty's  convenience, 
being  then  in  the  60th  year  of  my  age,  the  37th  of  my  service  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  and  the  32nd  of  my  service  of  the  Crown.  My 
object  was  to  retire  from  public  business  for  the  remainder  of  my 
life.  Various  circumstances  prevented  my  obtaining  either  of  these 
requests  tiU  the  end  of  last  session  of  Parliament,  when  I  quitted  my 
seat  by  means  of  the  Chiltern  Hundreds ;  but  I  continued  at  the 
War  Office  till  the  16th  of  this  month,  when  I  was  succeeded 
by  Mr.  Jenkinson.  The  evening  of  the  same  day  I  was  honoured  by 
a  most  gracious  and  kind  letter  from  the  King,  who  informed  me 
that  he  had  ordered  a  pension  of  2000Z.  a  year,  payable  to  me  till  I 


1779]  LORD  BARRINGTON'S  RESIGNATION.  161 

should  have  some  employment,  '  as  mark  of  his  approbation  of  my 
conduct,  unsolicited  by  me.'  I  need  not  remark  to  you  the  value  of 
the  word  unsolicited.  I  flatter  myself  that  my  poHtical  death  has 
been  decent  and  proper.  It  has  been  blamed  by  nobody,  and  ap- 
proved by  many  ;  and  it  vs^ould  afford  me  a  comfortable  hope  here- 
after during  my  continuance  in  this  world,  if  the  aspect  of  public 
affairs  were  more  prosperous.  I  send  you  this  account,  dear  Sir, 
thinking,  from  your  long  friendship  for  me,  that  it  would  be  accept- 
able to  you.  At  all  times  and  in  all  situations,  I  shall  be,  with  equal 
truth  and  regard, 

Tour  most  faithfal  and  obedient  servant, 

Baeeington. 

I  beg  this  may  be  communicated  to  my  friend  Fowke. 

Journal. 

'  June  1st. — Only  H.  and  I.  Coote  sick,  and  Barwell, 
I  suspect,  indignant.  Actuellement  les  cartes  me  parois- 
sent  extremement  brouiUees.  II  faut  laisser  aller  les  choses, 
et  attendre  le  denouement.  Nobkissen  swears  to  Ducarel 
that  the  Eanny  of  Burdwan  is  determined  to  make  Bar- 
well  refund.  I  hear  the  same  from  other  quarters.  Sir 
John  Day  proposes  to  H.  not  to  let  Sudder  ul  Cawn,  the 
Nai  Nazim,  appear  to  the  process  of  the  Supreme  Court. 
H.  entertains  the  idea  with  rapture :  I  let  him  see  that 
I  have  the  same  opinion  of  the  jurisdiction  which  I  always 
had.  H.  cannot  conceal  his  hatred  of  the  law  and  all 
that  belongs  to  it.  Coote,  I  think,  within  these  two  days, 
begins  to  come  to.     He  writes  to  me  now  about  business. 

'  2nd  and  ?>rd. — Mr.  Wheler  returns.  Coote  continues 
much  indisposed,  and  sees  nobody.  By  all  advices  I 
understand  that  discord  prevails  among  the  Triumvirate. 
Visit  Coote  at  night.  Very  ill  and  low-spirited.  I  fancy  he 
begins  to  find  the  situation  too  much  for  him,  and  that  he 
is  not  quite  so  well  qualified  to  hold  the  balance  between 
H.  and  me.  Nobkissen  visits  me  again.  I  receive  the  villain 
civilly,  intending  to  make  use  of  him  at  a  distance. 

VOL.  II.  M 


162  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

'  hill. — Long  conversation  and  apparently  confidential 
■with  Dick  Johnson,  who  is  understood  to  have  got  posses- 
sion of  Coote's  cabinet.  Thinks  or  professes  to  think  as  I 
do  of  the  Knight's  conduct,  but  vouches  for  his  integrity. 
Of  his  intellects  he  speaks  with  infinite  moderation ; 
answers  for  his  steady  opposition  to  a  Mahratta  war,  and 
that  he  is  not  in  league  with  Hastings. 

'  1th. — Council  ridiculous — debate  about  Bombay  afiairs. 
Coote  obstinate  on  some  points.  Hastings  angry  and  per- 
plexed. Barwell  all  cajolery.  I  deliver  in  a  second 
minute,  say  but  little,  and  stand  to  my  ground.  At  last 
a  stupid  resolution  to  vote  on  H's.  letter  paragraph  by 
paragraph.     And  this  to  be  done  in  circrdation. 

'  lOiA. — Coote  bitches  it  as  I  expected.  The  letter  voted 
with  some  trifling  alterations.  Wheler  votes  stoutly  for 
the  letter  proposed  by  me. 

'  June  Ylth. — Coote  proposes  that  Goddard  shall  have 
the  rank  of  Brigadier-general,  and  that  we  should  recom- 
mend him  to  the  C.  of  D.  to  succeed  to  the  command  at 
Bombay  on  the  first  vacancy.  I  oppose  it,  and  warm 
discourse  ensues.  It  seems  the  Triumvirate  have  settled 
.  all  their  private  differences  about  Oude,  Bombay,  Burd- 
wan,  &c.  Indictment  for  forgery  this  day  laid  against 
Fandera  Begum  and  others.  Law  and  Young  come  down 
from  Patna.  Fury,  Faction,  and  Eevenge  have  now 
taken  complete  possession  of  the  settlement. 

'  12ih. — Bill  found.  Hyde  refuses  to  grant  Bench 
Warrants  to  apprehend  and  secure.  A  new  cause  of 
clamour  against  the  Court. 

'14iA. — Council.  Bombay  letter  voted.  Hastings  and 
Barwell  and  Coote  against  Wheler  and  Francis.  I  then 
desire  leave  to  enter  my  dissent,  on  which  the  Commander- 
in-Chief  leaves  the  board  and  sets  out  for  Ghiretti ;  returns 
again  in  half  an  hour,  finding  the  tide  will  not  serve. 


17791  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  163 

Horsley  desired  to  be  heard  :  reads  the  letter  and  declares 
that  the  more  he  considers  it,  the  more  prejudicial  it  ap- 
pears to  him  to  the  public  service, — so  at  last  they  have 
cooked  up  a  letter  to  please  nobody.  This  day  the  whole 
settlement  attend  at  the  Court  House  with  much  indig- 
nation against  Impey  for  the  part  he  has  taken  against  the 
prosecution. 

'  Ibth. — Coote  absent  at  Ghiretti.  Barwell  introduces  s 
petition  from  the  Eanny  of  Burdwan  supported  by  propo- 
sitions from  himself  to  remit  the  arrears  of  1184,  and  to 
reduce  the  Jumma  (vide  debates).  Finding  all  opposition 
to  this  iniquitous  scheme  useless,  I  insisted  that  the  ques- 
tion should  be  referred  to  Sir  Eyre  Coote,  being  determined 
that  his  absenting  himself  shall  not  screen  him  from  taking 
his  share  of  responsibility  for  the  measures  he  supports. 

'  22nd. — Coote  at  Ghiretti,  where  I  fancy  he  is  deter- 
mined to  stay  till  he  hears  from  Europe.  He  sighs 
bitterly,  laments  his  situation,  says  he  never  sought  it,  that 
he  was  called  upon  by  his  king  and  country,  &c.,  and  now 
he  can  please  nobody.  After  selhng  himself  to  the  devil, 
the  Coote  would  wish  to  save  appearances.  Letter  to 
Burdwan  cooked  up  by  Bl.  with  an  intended  ambiguity 
about  the  Balances  of  1183  and  1184.  I  clear  up  the 
question  by  a  minute  in  which  Wheler  joins. 

'24:th. — In  the  Sup.  Court.  Grand  versus  Shee.  1 
rupee  damages  ;  1  rupee  costs.^  A  la  fin  ce  scelerat  est 
ecrase. 

'  2Qth. — At  Chandernagore,  ut  vidi,  ut  peril ! 

'  21th. — Ditto.  Curious  explanation  with  La  Merliere, 
a  ce  qui  me  paroit,  on  ne  demande  pas  mieux,  &c. 

'  July  drd. — Whimsical  conversation  with  Impey  at 
Barweh's. 

'  Apparently  referring  to  some  proceeding  of  M.  Grand  against  Shee, 
Francis's  companion  in  the  night  yisit  to  his  house. 

m2 


164  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

'  hth. — Coote  arrives  at  last,  but  not  a  word  of  military 
regulations.  Fifteen  lack  in  specie  ordered  to  be  sent  to 
Goddard  for  six  months'  pay  of  his  detachment  from 
November.  The  Stafford,  Captain  Hutchinson,  to  have  the 
honour  of  conveying  this  money  to  Bombay.  For  this 
worthy  object,  the  whole  machinery  of  lies  is  set  in  motion. 
N.B.  Hutchinson  is  brother  of  Lady  Coote. 

'  %th. — H.  urges  an  appeal  from  the  Judgment  against 
the  Patna  officers.  Sir  J.  D.'s  opinion  to  be  taken. 
Speaking  of  Mahomed  Eeza  Cawn's  Perwanna,  mentioned 
by  the  Chief  Justice  in  his  decree,  Hastings  said,  "  I  have 
lately  discovered,  that  the  very  paper  on  which  so  much 
stress  was  laid,  as  a  decree  of  that  (a  sneer  at  words  used 
by  Impey)  able  and  upright  magistrate,  Mr.  E.  C,  was 
fabricated  in  my  own  house  by  some  of  my  servants,  and 
that  Mr.  E.  C.  knew  nothing  of  the  matter."  One  would 
think  this  man  hated  Impey  in  his  heart !  But  who  can 
tell? 

'  12)th. — H.  breaks  up  in  confusion  on  the  arrival  of  the 
Swallow  sloop  from  Madras,  with  Lieut.  Wood  from  Eng- 
land, who  brings  letters  of  March  24th,  and  positive  as- 
surances from  Walsh  and  Gregory  that  H.  and  B.  are  to 
be  removed  and  Mr.  F.  appointed  Gr.-Gl.  Videbimus. 
No  letter  to  his  Board,  but  only  a  copy  of  that  to  Madras 
inclosed  to  us  by  Wilkes  the  Secretary — a  mortal  sHght 
to  Hastings. 

'14^A. — Dispatch  Watson  to  Ghiretti,  properly  instructed. 
That  unhappy  man.  Sir  Eyre  Coote,  having  no  head,  can 
only  be  moved  by  fear.  Daniel  Barwell  taken  in  the 
Osterly,with  two  lacks  in  specie,  and  a  great  deal  of  other 
property.  The  tide  turns  at  last.  N.  B.  This  day  a  mili- 
tary board,  at  which  I  did  not  attend,  reading  Coote's 
regulations. 

'15ifA. — Barometer  rises.    Military  Board.   Eegulations 


1779]  HASTINGS  ON  GOVERNMENT  OF  DEPENDENCIES.    165 

continued.  Coote  at  Ghiretti.  Watson  says  he  seems 
excessively  dejected  and  miserable  :  talks  of  going  home  : 
apparently  dissatisfied  with  his  letters  from  England. 
Eeserved  and  sulky,  and  very  unwilling  to  come  to 
Calcutta. 

'  IQth. — Military  regulations.  Coote  at  Ghiretti. 
Hastings  says  he  is  ready  to  lay  any  man  a  wager,  that 
the  Ministry  wiU  dream  over  Bengal  afiairs  this  year,  as 
they  did  the  last,  and  that  nothing  will  be  done  in  Parlia- 
ment. Curious  pohtical  maxim  stated  by  Hastings  as 
incontrovertible — viz.,  that  respecting  the  government  of 
a  great  distant  acquisition  the  power  delegated  by  a  free 
people  should  be  absolute  in  one  person  ;  that  delegated 
by  a  despotic  government  should  be  divided  among 
several.  The  first,  I  think,  not  true.  In  the  second  in- 
stance there  is  certainly  less  danger  in  dividing  the 
power  than  there  would  be  if  it  were  delegated  by  a  free 
people,  because  the  despot  can  force  his  delegates  to  unite 
and  act  together.  This  day  Hastings  and  Barwell  resolve 
to  vote  upon  the  regulations  on  next  Monday.  Mr. 
Wheler  and  I  desire  a  little  time  to  read  and  understand 
them — refused ;  vide  the  reasons  assigned  by  Hastings  and 
BarweH.  It  seems  they  are  determined  to  carry  every- 
thing through,  under  a  pretended  acquiescence  in  the  great 
military  authority  of  Sir  Eyre  Coote.  By  this  conduct 
they  at  once  throw  the  whole  responsibility  and  odium 
upon  him,  and  if  I  oppose  and  make  any  demur  they 
carry  it  immediately  to  him  as  a  proof  of  my  hostile 
disposition. 

'  19th. — ^Military  regulations.  Coote  at  Ghiretti.  Some 
voted.  Mr.  Wheler  and  I  object,  as  not  having  had 
time  to  consider  them.  Hastings  refuses  even  to  allow 
us  ten  days  for  that  purpose.     With  all  my  heart,  I  shall 


166  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

have  the  less  to  answer  for.  The  army,  I  find,  are  ready- 
enough  to  complain.     Vide  minutes. 

'  Aug.  2nd. — Council. — Sir  E.  Coote's  motion  canvassed 
and  resolved  ;  he  takes  high  offence  at  my  moving  to  know 
the  particulars  of  his  inteUigence  and  his  authority  for  it — 
passionate  and  silly — fresh  orders  from  Colonel  Goddard, 
in  consequence  of  his  letters  of  June  12  and  18.  Vide 
debate.  I  am  convinced  that  Hastings  does  not  be- 
lieve one  word  of  the  French,  and  that  he  makes  a  tool 
of  Coote  to  forward  his  other  schemes.  If  Coote  be 
really  in  the  secret,  he  means  to  go  himself  to  Bombay 
and  take  the  command  of  the  combined  army.  I  pass 
my  time  charmingly  among  them.  In  my  absence  I  find 
they  have  given  up  Burdwan  root  and  branch  to  the 
Eanny's  servants.     Strange  things  are  said. 

'  9th. — Coote  absent.  Contracts  for  Dick  Johnstone 
and  Belli  for  five  years.  Oh  monstrous !  I  declare  I 
wiU  not  sign  them.     Eegulations  finished — a  pretty  job.' 

From  D'Oyhj. 

Curzon  Street,  February  2,  1779:  6  o'clock  p.m. 
My  dear  Francis, — Haring  just  received  a  note  from  my  friend 
Bristowe  informing  me  that  the  fleet  has  orders  to  sail  with  the  first 
fair  wind,  and  that  he  shall  set  off  for  Portsmouth  this  evening  in 
order  to  write  to  you  from  thence,  I  sit  down  to  write  to  you  in  a 
great  hurry.  He  is  a  young  man  I  like  much,  and  I  have  commu- 
nicated my  sentiments  to  him  openly  and  fully.  We  agree  in  every 
thing  concerning  you,  and  he  will  write  to  you  at  large.  At  last 
Lord  North  has  condescended  to  have  some  conversations  with  me 
concerning  you,  and  he  has  been  pleased  to  express  to  me  his  appro- 
bation of  your  conduct ;  yet  I  conld  never  bring  him  to  disclose 
that,  if  you  would  continue  in  India  after  the  expiration  of  the  five 
years,  that  you  should  be  the  Governor-General.  I  constantly 
insist  you  ought  to  be  ia  tliat  situation  now,  and  that  nothing  less 
will  prevail  on  you  to  stay.  From  the  whole  I  collect  their  present 
intention  to  be,  to  appoint  some  man  of  great  rank  from  hence 
Governor- General.      But  things  take  such  sudden  turns  ia  this 


1779]  INDIAN  JOURNAL,  167 

country,  that  I  do  not  think  that  much  regard  should  be  had  to 
their  present  intentions.  General  Fraser  and  Mr.  Bristowe  have  a 
scheme  of  Mr.  Hastings  resigning,  and  you  getting  into  the  govern- 
ment before  the  end  of  the  iive  years,  and  this  I  have  talked  over 
with  Mr.  Bristowe  and  Mr.  Fraser.  The  plan  is  dehcate  and 
dangerous,  and  therefore  desired  that  great  care  might  be  taken 
of  your  honour,  and  that  you  might  not  be  improperly  pledged  for 
any  thing.  And  Mr.  Bristowe  respects  you  so  much,  that  I  am 
persuaded  he  will  act  with  caution  and  the  utmost  attention  to  your 
honour  and  interest.  He  will  relate  the  whole  fully  to  you,  and 
therefore  I  will  say  no  more  concerning  it. 

Journal. 

'■Aug.  9th. — Coote  certainly  looks  homewards,  and  I 
think  by  the  way  of  Bombay.  They  will  leave  the  govern- 
ment in  a  happy  situation  ! 

'10th. — Coote  absent  at  Ghiretti.  No  business  done, 
loitering  through  the  morning.  Curious  report  from  Sir 
J.  Day  against  our  appealing  from  the  judgment  in  the 
Patna  cause.  In  fact,  all  appeal  home  from  this  court  is 
nugatory. 

'  18th. — Curious  reports  about  anonymous  letters  to 
Coote  fuU  of  the  grossest  abuse.  Erom  Futtygur  to  Cal- 
cutta the  whole  army  curse  and  despise  him.  Captain 
Palmer,  the  Governor's  homme  d'afiaires,  goes  to  Madras 
in  the  Stafford.     Qusere ! 

'  2Qth. — Carnac  with  two  battahons  ordered  to  Benares 
to  force  the  Eaja  to  pay  five  lack  extra.  Euin,  ruin 
everywhere !  Coote  complains  bitterly  of  Captain 
Wray's  insolent  behaviour  to  him.  The  fact  is  they  aU 
despise  him  and  he  can  keep  no  command.  This  day  a 
poor  black  fellow  comes  with  a  letter  from  Sir  E.  J.  to 
complain  of  the  most  horrible  cruelty  he  had  suffered 
from  Sadut  Ally  ;  he  was  dreadfully  cut  and  seamed  with 
red-hot  irons. 

'  27th — Write  a  strong  minute  against  the  reduction 


108  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

of  the  Burdwan  Jumma  ;  go  up  to  Chandernagore  with 
Mr.  Wheler. 

'  2%th. — Write  a  joint  minute  against  the  infamous 
Bullock  contract — vide.  Seized  with  a  violent  disorder  in 
my  bowels. 

'  29<A. — Excessively  ill. 

'  30fA. — Do.     Send  for  Dr.  Jackson. 

'  Zlst. — Do.     Eeturn  with  him  to  Calcutta. 

'  Sept.  1st. — Continue  ill. 

'  %th. — Write  another  strong  minute  against  the  Bul- 
lock contract.  Go  up  to  Hughley,  wliere  I  propose 
to  stay  till  we  hear  decisively  from  England.  If  it  be 
possible  to  avoid  it,  I  will  never  meet  these  villains  in 
Council  again. 

'  IQth. — Europe  pacquet  overland.  I  cannot  discover 
that  it  brings  anything  but  a  dupUcate  of  the  letters  of 
March  23. 

'  VJth. — 0  cara  Phillide,  rendi  me  il  cor ! 

'  21th. — No  Council.  Hastings  comes  up  to  Ghiretti  to 
take  leave  of  Coote,  who  proceeds  this  evening  up  the 
river. 

'  2^th. — Qua3  spiravit  amores. 

'  Oct.  1st. — The  commission  of  the  present  Governor- 
General  and  Council  expires  on  the  20th  of  this  month, 
and  we  have  no  intelligence  from  England!  At  first 
sight  of  such  atrocious  conduct,  it  might  be  concluded 
that  all  care  of  the  pubhc  service  was  avowedly  aban- 
doned at  home  ;  but  the  fact  is,  those  who  have  a  stake 
in  its  existence  ought  to  withdraw  as  fast  as  they  can,  and 
save  as  much  as  they  can  out  of  the  general  ruin.  But 
whither  shall  they  go,  if  liberty,  which  has  rotted  to  the 
root  in  England,  be  violently  torn  up,  and  destroyed  in 
America  ?  Avertat  Deus !  Almost  everybody  sick  at 
Calcutta. 


1779]  COOTE  LEAVES  FOR  THE  ARMY.  169 

'  2nd. — A  most  impudent  rascally  minute  from  Hastings 
about  Belli's  conduct,  in  which  he  charges  me  with  collu- 
sion with  Livius.  I  immediately  write  a  peppering 
answer  and  send  it  to  town — vide. 

'  1th. — Various  letters  from  Calcutta.  The  Futty  Alloy 
from  Bombay,  with  Europe  packets,  \\k  Suez.  A  few 
hours  more  will  give  us  all  a  quietus,  Iv  8s  <^asi  xai  oAetnroi/. 

'  lOiA. — On  my  arrival  at  night,  find  a  note  from  the 
secretary :  "  Sir — the  Governor-General  has  directed  me 
to  put  off  the  Council,  summoned  for  to-morrow,  on  ac- 
count of  Mr.  Barwell's  indisposition. — I  am,  &c.,  J.  P. 
Auriol,  Secretary. — Sunday,  Oct.  10,  1779." 

The  departure  of  Goote,  to  take  charge  of  his  military 
duties,  excited  the  bitter  animosity  of  Francis,  whom  it 
left  once  more  at  the  mercy  of  Hastings  and  Barwell. 
But  it  must  be  admitted,  in  justice  to  Francis,  that  his 
extreme  vindictiveness  against  the  General,  and  the 
contemptuous  manner  in  which  he  speaks  of  him,  were 
only  too  well  justified  by  certain  points  in  his  Indian 
history.  One  of  the  strongest  charges  of  corrupt  conduct 
against  Hastings,  on  his  impeachment,  was  that  he  had 
proposed  in  Council,  and  carried,  18,000^.  a  year  to  the 
General,  under  the  title  of  '  Expenses  in  the  field,'  over 
and  above  the  16,000/.  a  year  assigned  to  him  by  the  Court 
of  Directors.  This,  it  was  alleged,  was  done  in  order  to 
buy  Coote's  support  for  Hastings  in  Council.  Mr.  Mill, 
in  his  '  History  of  India,'  sums  up  the  transaction  most 
unfavourably  for  both  parties.  (Book  vi.  ch.  2.)  Thus 
much  ought  to  be  said  in  Francis's  behalf,  inasmuch  as 
Coote,  by  his  subsequent  victories  in  the  war  against 
Hyder  Ally,  earned  and  obtained  a  title  to  public 
applause,  overbalancing  the  demerit  of  that  greed  for 
gain  which  he  shared  with  so  many  of  our  Indian  cele- 


170  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

brities  of  the  period.     He  died  at  Madras,  in  the  middle 
of  a  desperate  quarrel  with  Hastings,  in  April  1784. 

Francis  writes  to  D'Oyly,  November  13,  1779,  on  Sir 
Eyre  Coote : — 

After  settliiig  some  of  tte  most  infamous  and  atrocious  measures, 
in  perfect  conjunction  witli  Hastings  and  Barwell,  lie  is  gone  up  the 
country,  witli  infinite  pomp  and  parade,  for  a  purpose  so  well  known 
that  lie  would  lose  nothing  by  avowing  it  ....  I  will  not  content 
myself  with  saying  I  never  knew,  but  upon  my  soul  I  never  heard 
of  so  abandoned  a  scoundrel.  It  is  a  character  to  which  your 
EngUsh  ideas  of  dirt  and  meanness  do  not  reach.  Nor  is  it  to  be 
met  with  even  in  Bengal.  Even  here  it  excites  execration  and 
contempt.' 

Journal. 

'  Oct.  \2th. — BarweU  absent.  Mere  trifling.  After 
the  Eevenue  Board  was  up  I  desired  the  secretaries 
to  withdraw  and  said  to  Hastings,  "  that,  from  his  silence, 
and  aU  other  appearances,  I  concluded  we  understood 
one  another  about  the  continuance  of  the  present  govern- 
ment, and  if  a  new  commission  did  not  arrive  before  the 
20th  that  I  had  no  doubt,  and  presumed  he  had  none,  of 
our  right  to  hold  over,"  &c.  He  professed  to  agree  with 
me  entirely  for  reasons  drawn  from  the  terms  of  our 
appointment,  and  he  said  he  thought  it  most  prudent  not 
to  suppose  a  question  or  to  say  anything  upon  the  subject ; 
so  we  parted  in  perfect  amity.  In  the  evening  return  to 
Hughley. 

'  16<A.— At  Hughley. 

'  17^A. — Sunday.  Ditto. — Eidet  hoc,  inquam,  Venus 
ipsa,  rident  simplices  nymphse. 

'  l^th. — On  this  day  the  present  commission  expires ; 
and  no  news  from  England ! 

'  See,  as  to  this  dark  side  of  Coote's  character,  Lord  Stanhope's  '  History,' 
chap.  Ixix. — '  A  love  of  gain  had  grown  up  side  by  side  with  his  love  of 
glory.' 


1779]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  171 

'  Nov.  2nd. — At  Hughley,  where  I  propose  to  stay  as 
long  as  I  can,  and  visit  Calcutta  as  seldom  as  I  can. 
Last  night,  an  invitation  was  sent  to  me  from  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Hastings  to  dine  with  them  to-morrow.  Considering 
the  terms  on  which  we  parted  yesterday,  and  that  I 
never  received  such  an  invitation  before,  it  is  an  odd 
unaccountable  circumstance,  and  subject  to  infinite  spe- 
culation. 

'  6th. — At  Hughley.  A  great  fire  last  night  at  the  old 
Fort,  by  which  an  immense  quantity  of  raw  silk  and 
piece  goods  has  been  destroyed.  The  Company's  losses 
this  year  have  been  very  extraordinary.  I  fancy  the 
day  of  retribution  is  not  far  ofi",  and  that  Nemesis  has 
taken  them  in  hand  at  last. 

'  7th. — Go  to  Calcutta  in  the  evening. 

'  8th. — Council.  Hastings  makes  a  report  of  the  last 
fire  and  its  effects.  By  a  computation,  with  which  Dacres 
has  furnished  him,  it  appears  that  the  Company's  property 
lodged  in  the  Godowns  amounted  to 

Company's  Rupees     ....    22.44.608.11 
Saved 2-4o.706.13 


Lost 19.98.901.14 


'  H.  swears  with  great  apparent  passion,  and  in  terms 
which  plainly  imply  suspicion  of  foul  play,  that  there 
never  was  an  instance  of  a  fire  in  a  Godown  since  the 
time  of  Job  Channock.  Piece  goods,  cotton,  and  raw 
silk  packed  close  in  bales  are  not  easily  set  on  fire,  nor 
could  it  possibly  have  spread,  if  there  had  not  been 
an  immense  quantity  of  red  wood  piled  in  the  old  Fort, 
as  it  were  on  purpose  to  burn  the  Godowns.  Eeturn 
at  night  to  Hughley.  IST.B.  Sir  J.  Day  appears  to 
be  excessively  hurt  at  the  marriage  of  Eamus  with 
Miss  Vernet ;  he  says  that  it  has  been  hurried  on  in  a 


172  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

most  extraordinary  manner  by  Mrs.  Hastings.  This  lady, 
since  she  married  poor  Hastings,  has  taken  a  strange  turn 
to  match-making.  She  now  knows  what  it  is  to  be 
married.  H.  speaks  his  mind  very  freely  against  Eum- 
bold,  apropos  of  the  negotiations  with  the  Nizam — vide 
October  25th. 

'  IBth. — Stand  godfather  to  Sir  E.  Chambers's  son  ; 
dine  at  his  house  with  Impey,  Hide,  &c.  At  night  meet 
Hastings  and  Wheler  to  open  the  Company's  packet 
brought  by  the  Barker  and  containing  four  letters,  viz.  two 
of  the  28th  of  December  1778,  one  of  the  ...  of  January, 
and  one  of  the  4th  of  February.  I  just  read  the  first 
over  in  a  hurry ;  Hastings  seemed  desirous  to  get  away, 
and  so  we  parted  at  quarter  past  11.  I  did  not  then 
know  his  reason. 

'  I4:th. — Mr.  Neave  arrives  in  the  evening  with  very 
interesting  letters  from  Bristow^  and  General  Traser.  H. 
gives  notice  by  the  secretary,  that  he  will  not  have  a 
Council  next  week  and  is  gone  away  to  Ghiretti  with 
Impey.  A  curious  resolution  immediately  after  the 
receipt  of  such  letters  from  the  Company  !  He  is  plainly 
gone  to  consult  what  he  shall  do  with  the  government. 
In  the  meantime  he  orders  the  new  government  to  be 
announced  with  all  possible  ostentation. 

'  The  following  is  a  curious  extract  from  this  letter  of  Bristow  (dated 
Feb.  4,  1779)  : — I  must  tell  you  that  Charles  Fox  was  rallied  last  week  by  the 
Attorney  General  about  going  out  to  India,  never  meaning  or  thinking  a 
serious  proposition  would  in  consequence  be  made.  This  transaction  is 
known  to  few ;  but  Charles  Fox  sent  to  Lord  North,  offering  himself  as 
candidate  for  the  Supreme  Council.  Lord  North  returned  for  answer,  "that 
he  could  hardly  believe  Mr.  Fox  in  earnest ;  but,  both  as  an  enemy  and  a 
friend,  he  wished  to  accept  Mr.  Fox's  offer :  at  the  present  however  it  was 
impossible,  as  the  vacancy  must  be  filled  by  a  military  man.''  Mr.  Fox's 
application  remains  in  this  state,  and  I  believe  he  will  not  go:  notwith- 
standing which  it  may  possibly  happen,  as  Fox  was  never  poorer  in  his  life 
than  he  is  at  the  present  time.' 


1779]  STATE  OF  INVESTMENTS.  173 

'  16th. — Eeturn  at  night  to  HugUey. 

quoquo  vestigia  tendit 
Componit  furtim  sutsequiturque  decor.' 

The  following  from  Mr.  Godfrey  (May  13,  1779)  in- 
forms Francis  of  the  then  state  of  his  investments,  in 
England  :  he  seems  at  the  same  time  to  have  had  con- 
siderable sums  by  him  in  India. 

I  have  almost  a  mind  to  tell  you  wtat  your  income  is  now ;  in  this 
country  I  mean ;  for  you,  I  imagine,  have  no  time  to  think  on  trifles. 


Per  annum. 

On  Mortgages   . 

.    ;ei6,000 

800 

Bank  Stock. 

2,000 

110 

E.  I.  Stock . 

6,000 

480 

Do.  that  you  left 

1,000 

80 

25,000         1,470 

Journal. 

'  Nov.  20th. — At  Hughley.  Pulchrior  multo,  juvenum- 
que  prodis  pubhca  cura. 

'  21st. — Ditto  aU  these  days  at  Hughley,  busily  em- 
ployed in  writing  letters  home,  to  go  by  Mr.  Van — vide 
letters  of  this  date  for  all  particulars.  Eeturn  at  night  to 
Calcutta. 

'  24:th. — Eeturn  at  night  to  Hughley ; — ferus  et  Cupido 
semper  ardentes  acuens  sagittas. 

'  Dec.  9th. — Happening  to  talk  last  night  at  the 
Harmonic  with  Sir  Ehjah  Impey  in  the  presence  of  Sir 
Eobert  Chambers,  and  Eaja  Diaram  the  king's  Vaqueel, 
whom  Hastings  has  lately  dismissed  with  anger,  being 
mentioned  with  some  expression  of  respect  by  Sir  Eobert 
Chambers,  Impey  said  he  knew  him  to  be  a  bad  man,  and 
continued  to  insist,  on  it,  as  a  matter  of  fact  of  which  he 
had  direct  and  certain  knowledge.  This  morning  Arch- 
dekin  told  me  a  curious  circumstance,  which  I  think 
explains  Sir  Elijah  Impey's  meaning.     Without  knowing 


174  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

anything  of  what  had  passed  last  night,  he  told  me  that 
Eaja  Diaram  was  dismissed  because,  in  consequence  of 
an  explanation  between  Hastings  and  one  of  the  sons  of 
Monur-ul-Dowla  who  was  lately  at  Calcutta,  the  former 
had  discovered  that  a  present  of  50,000  rupees  intended 
for  him  by  the  latter  had  been  intercepted  by  Diaram  and 
appropriated  to  his  own  use. 

'  IQth. — This  day  no  board,  at  the  joint  desire  of 
Hastings  and  Barwell.  They  had  enough  of  it  yester- 
day. 

'  nth. — Nothing  material.  I  urge  Hastings  privately 
not  to  act  by  halves  in  our  contest  with  Court  of  Judi- 
cature, but  to  persist  and  even  to  attack. 

'  18th. — Visit  Budgebudge.  The  works  are  well  planned 
and  admirably  executed,  and  Watson  has  thoroughly 
convinced  me  of  their  utility,  against  which  I  went  pre- 
judiced. 

'  20th. — Again  I  urge  Hastings  to  push  the  Supreme 
Court,  as  common  cause,  and  on  grounds  which  equally 
interest  us  both.  I  tell  him  plainly  that  the  only  way 
is  to  attack,  and  that  we  ought  in  our  own  defence  to 
sohcit  the  Court  of  Directors  to  address  the  King  to 
remove  Hyde.  Hastings  seems  to  rehsh  all  this  per- 
fectly well,  and  promises  he  will  act  properly.  By  what 
he  says,  I  suspect  Impey  and  Chambers  are  very  well 
disposed  to  leave  Mr.  Justice  Hyde  to  his  own  reflections. 

'  21st. — Barwell  absent.  Prohibition  of  foreign  salt 
considered.  Strong  letters  from  Patna  about  the  writs  of 
the  Supreme  Court. 

'  2Srd. — Council.  I  never  saw  greater  appearance  of 
discontent  and  dejection  than  in  the  language  and 
behaviour  of  Hastings  and  Barwell.  The  former  dis- 
tracted with  the  letters  and  conduct  of  Coote,  who  has 
declared  war  against  Pearse  and  the  Golandauz.     This 


1779]  NEGOTIATIONS  WITH  HASTINGS.  175 

corps  ordered  to  be  disbanded.  Barwell  declares  that 
Pearse  ought  to  be  tried  by  a  court-martial  for  disobedience 
of  the  general  orders.  Hastings  with  great  passion  lays  it 
down  for  a  fundamental  maxim  of  British  pohcy  that  we 
ought  to  tempt  and  encourage  the  powers  of  India  to 
attend  to  their  infantry  and  artillery,  and  thereby  make 
them  neglect  their  cavalry,  in  which  they  have  a  natural 
and  irresistible  superiority — one  of  his  usual  refinements, 
which,  if  he  had  ever  thought  of  it  before,  he  would 
naturally  have  urged  when  the  corps  was  raised,  and  a 
thousand  objections  made  to  it  by  me.  Curious  letter 
from  Coote  of  December  11.  The  man  is  evidently 
taking  new  ground,  in  order  to  convince  the  world  that 
Hastings  has  not  bought  him. 

'  26^/i. — Sunday.  Major  Baggs  determines  to  go  to 
England.  This  night  Hastings,  Impey,  &c.  supped  at  my 
house. 

'  20th Eeports  now  begin  to  circulate  that  an  ac- 
commodation is  on  foot  between  Hastings  and  me.  He 
professes  to  wish  for  it.  Scott,  his  aide-de-camp,  and 
Ducarel,  to  whom  I  have  given  instructions,  have  had  a 
serious  conversation  on  the  subject.' 

This  was  the  afterwards  celebrated  Major  Scott, 
Hastings's  principal  agent  in  England  during  his  impeach- 
ment. The  negotiations  thus  referred  to  ended  (according 
to  an  entry  in  Francis's  letter-book)  in  nothing,  Hastings 
having  given  no  answer  to  the  proposal  then  made  to  him. 
Nevertheless,  the  suggestion  fructified  ;  and  the  result  was 
an  important,  though  temporary,  change  in  the  relations 
of  the  two  chiefs  of  the  Council  to  each  other. 

This  was  the  conclusion  of  a  '  truce  '  between  Hastings 
and  Francis,  for  the  particulars  relating  to  which  the 
reader  can  consult  with  advantage  Thornton's  'History 
of  India,'  chapter  ix.    Barwell  was  anxious  to  leave  India. 


176  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

He  was  now  a  widower,  and  had  accumulated  a  large 
fortune.  But  ties  of  honour,  if  not  of  positive  friendship, 
made  him  indisposed  to  leave  Hastings,  single-handed,  to 
the  opposition  of  Francis  and  Wheler,  Coote,  besides  his 
inefficiency  in  Council,  being  frequently  absent  on  mihtary 
duty.  Francis  was  of  course  as  anxious  to  get  rid  of 
Barwell  as  Hastings  to  retain  him.  The  result  was  a 
compromise  between  the  two  chief  combatants.  Francis 
agreed  to  leave  Hastings  undisturbed  in  the  chief  conduct 
of  the  government,  and  in  particular  on  those  subjects  on 
which  his  heart  was  most  set — the  conduct  of  the  Mahratta 
and  French  wars.  Francis  was  to  be  appeased  by  the 
restoration  of  Fowke  to  his  post  at  Benares — a  concession 
which  Hastings  had  stubbornly  refused  to  the  Indian 
authorities  at  home — and  of  Bristowe  (who  had  just 
returned  to  India)  to  Oude  ;  '  the  splendid  and  corrupt- 
ing objects  of  Lucknov  and  Benares,'  as  Lord  Cornwallis 
calls  them.  Hastings  also  agreed  to  conform  to  the  orders 
which  he  had  received  from  home  respecting  Mahomed 
Eeza  Khan  :  an  admission  that  the  policy  of  Francis  had 
been  the  right  one.  The  negotiation  is  said  to  have  been 
conducted  by  Major  Scott,  afterwards  so  celebrated  as 
Hastings's  agent  in  England,  on  one  side  :  by  Ducarel  on 
the  other.  But  Francis,  in  his  letters  and  in  other  state- 
ments, was  careful  and  punctilious  in  describing  this 
arrangement  as  a  '  truce '  only,  and  as  in  no  degree 
binding  him  to  subsequent  ratification  by  approval  of 
Hastings's  acts  and  language. 

The  reasons  of  this  rapprochement  have  been  partly 
specified.  But,  in  addition,  two  such  men  must  have 
come  together  de  guerre  lasse,  as  the  French  express  it : 
wearied  out  with  the  unprofitable  task  of  wrangling  daily 
over  the  government  of  thirty  millions  of  people  hke 
petulant  schoolboys.     And  Hastings  was  doubly  anxious 


1779]      TRUCE  BETWEEN  HASTINGS  AND  FRANCIS.         ]77 

for  quiet  at  home,  in  order  to  carry  out  undisturbed  his 
high-reaching  project  of  humihating  the  Mahratta  power, 
and  making  British  influence  paramount  in  Central  India. 
His  spirit  was  roused,  moreover,  by  the  pohtical  storms 
which  seemed  gathering  in  every  quarter.  The  war  with 
France  had  excited  to  the  utmost  the  hopes  of  the 
native  powers  hostile  to  England.  '  Towards  the  close  of 
1779,'  to  use  Mr.  Marshman's  words  ('  History  of  India,' 
i.  373)  '  intelligence  reached  Hastings  from  various 
quarters  of  a  general  conspiracy  which  had  been  formed 
by  the  Nizam  and  Hyder  and  all  the  Mahratta  chiefs,  with 
the  exception  of  the  Guicowar,  for  the  expulsion  of  the 

EngHsh  from  India At  no  former  period  had  the 

English  power  been  menaced  with  greater  peril,  and  it 
required  aU  the  fortitude,  resources,  and  genius  of  Hastings 
to  meet  the  crisis.'  And  Francis,  while  his  prejudices 
blinded  him  to  the  extent  of  beUeving  that  Hastings  had 
both  provoked  the  danger  and  was  inadequate  to  meet  it, 
yet  doubtless  felt  this  an  occasion  on  which  all  other 
feelings  must  give  way  to  zeal  in  the  common  cause. 

The  two  leaders,  thus  reunited,  now  celebrated  theit 
compact  by  turning  their  forces  against  a  common  victim. 
The  Supreme  Court  had  by  this  time  made  itself  extremely 
unpopular  by  those  arbitrary  endeavours  to  extend  its 
authority,  and  violent  intrusions  on  the  domestic  usages  of 
the  natives,  which  are  so  well-known  from  the  picturesque 
description  of  them  in  Macaulay's  '  Essay  on  Hastings ;' 
reproduced,  with  less  graphic  power,  but  probably  greater 
accuracy,  in  Thornton's  '  History  of  India.'  Francis  had 
always  opposed  the  Court  and  detested  Impey,  and  he 
now  had  reasons  of  his  own  to  embitter  that  opposition 
and  hatred.  Hastings  loved  neither  the  law  nor  its  dis- 
pensers— obstacles  in  the  way  of  his  high-reaching  ambition 
— but  hitherto  he  had  found  it  his  best  policy  to  court 

VOL.vII,  N 


J  78  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1779 

and  to  use  them.  Both  the  councillors  now  interfered 
strongly  for  the  protection  of  the  people  against  the  over- 
weening usurpations  of  the  Court.  '  In  the  performance 
of  this  duty,'  says  Thornton,  '  for  a  duty  it  was,  Hastings 
joined  cordially  with  that  party  in  the  council  with  which 
•he  was  usually  at  enmity  ; '  joined,  it  must  be  added,  in 
hostility  to  his  own  most  intimate  personal  ally.  As  Sir 
Philip  observes  in  one  of  his  letters,  '  the  natives,  who 
had  heard  that  Hastings  and  Impey  were  schoolfellows, 
have  asked  me  seriously,  whether  they  were  not  of  the 
same  caste  ? '  Impey,  however,  yielded  to  the  storm ; 
but  Hastings — supported  by  Barwell,  who  was  anxious 
■to  stand  well  with  both  parties — seems  to  have  found  it 
the  most  convenient  method  of  accommodating  matters 
to  buy  him  over.  Impey  accepted  the  post  of  judge 
of  the  Sudder  Dewanee  Adawlut,  to  which  a  large  salary 
was  attached ;  an  ofBce  tenable  at  the  pleasure  of  the 
council,  and  therefore  binding  him  over  to  keep  the 
peace  towards  that  body  ;  and  became,  in  the  words  of 
Macaulay's  famous  description  of  the  event, '  rich,  quiet, 
and  infamous.'  The  arrangement  was  subsequently  made 
a  subject  of  attack  in  the  House  of  Commons.  It  is  fair 
to  add  that  Mr.  Impey,  in  his  defence  of  his  father, 
attempts  to  disprove  the  stinging  part  of  the  charge 
by  showing  from  Sir  Elijah's  papers  that  he  only  held 
the  office  a  short  time,  and  received  no  salary  at  all. 
But  it  is  clear  that  the  salary  was  voted.  Such  a  mode 
of  deahng  with  an  enemy  was  sufficiently  characteristic 
of  Hastings,  as  we  have  seen  already  in  the  case  of  Sir 
Eyre  Coote.  However  comparatively  pure  he  may 
have  been  as  to  the  receipt  of  bribes,  he  was  most 
lavish  and  unscrupulous  in  giving  them,  when  support — 
that  is,  power — was  to  be  purchased  by  such  means ; 
even  from  the  owner  of  such  a  character  as  Impey  then 


1779]  HASTINGS  AND  SIR  E.  IMPEY.  179 

bore  in  India.  '  All  parties  and  all  descriptions  of  men 
agree  about  Mm,'  writes  Lord  Cornwallis,  on  his  arrival 
to  succeed  Hastings,  Dec.  28,  1786.  'I  am  very  sorry,' 
he  adds,  in  a  familiar  letter  of  a  year  or  two  later,  '  that 
things  have  gone  so  much  against  poor  Hastings,  for  he 
certainly  had  many  amiable  qualities.  If  you  are  in  the 
hanging  mood,  you  may  tuck  up  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  with- 
out giving  any  body  the  smallest  concern.'^ 

The  following  letter  from  Bristow,  on  his  way  from 
England  to  Calcutta,  now  reached  Francis,  and  may  not 
impossibly  have  contributed  to  his  sense  of  the  hopeless- 
ness of  continuing  the  contest  with  Hastings  : — 

Cochin,  Kovember  17,  1779. 

My  dear  Sir, — After  escaping  a  variety  of  dangers,  both  by  sea 
and  by  land,  I  am  arrived  safe  at  tMs  place  ;  such  intelligence  as  I 
thought  worth  the  notice  of  the  council  I  have  sent  by  this  post, 
but  the  Company's  despatches  I  shall  keep  until  I  arrive  at  some 
English  settlement. 

I  have  the  pleasure  to  inform  you  that  I  have  letters  for  you 
from  Mrs.  Francis,  Mr.  D'Oyly,  Godfrey,  and  General  Eraser  ;  all  of 
whom  I  left  in  good  health.  As  it  is  very  doubtful  when  I  shall  be 
able  to  reach  Bengal,  I  propose  despatching  your  letters  by  the  first 
safe  opportunity ;  they  may  contain  matters  interesting  to  you  in 
respect  to  youx  private  affairs  ;  but  in  regard  to  public  transactions, 
I  am  sorry  to  tell  you,  that  notwithstanding  the  declarations  and  assu- 
rances of  the  minister,  no  inquiry  has  been  made  into  the  state  of 
India,  and  the  whole  is  deferred  until  the  next  session  of  Parliament. 

The  day  I  left  London,  as  well  as  some  days  preceding  it,  I  had, 
by  means  of  General  Eraser,  an  opportunity  of  seeing  Lord  North, 
and  endeavoured  to  obtain  a  direct  answer  respecting  his  intentions 
towards  you.  At  different  times  we  read  such  extracts  of  your 
letters  as  we  thought  would  oblige  him  to  come  to  some  resolution, 
but  he  evaded  it.  He  expressed  great  disapprobation  of  Mr.  H.'s 
conduct  in  many  particulars,  and  above  all  in  the  affair  of  Mr. 
Eowke ;  he  said  there  was  an  end  of  authority  if  the  directors  did 
not  enforce  their  orders  ;  but  notwithstanding  the  strength  of  his 
lordship's  expressions  on  this  and  many  other  subjects,  and  his  even 
admitting  Mr.  H.'s  conduct  ought  not  to  pass  unnoticed,  still  his 


1  Correspondence,  1.  249,  323. 
K  2 


180  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

resentment  evaporated  in  words.  He  appeared  particularly  desirous 
that  you  should  not  resign,  and  General  Eraser  very  bluntly  told 
him  that  after  the  assurances  you  had  had  of  support  and  the 
disappointments  you  had  met  with,  his  lordship  had  no  right  to 
lay  any  dependence  on  your  staying.  Lord  North's  assurances, 
so  far  as  words  go,  were  extremely  favourable  to  you ;  he  endea- 
voured to  have  it  understood,  that  the  situation  of  afiairs  prevented 
him  at  present  from  carrying  such  measures  as  he  wished  into 
execution,  and  that  he  only  waited  for  a  proper  opportunity  to 
give  you  proofs  of  his  friendly  disposition.  I  shall  not  pretend  to 
judge  how  far  you  are  to  place  any  reliance  on  assurances  which 
have  been  repeatedly  given  to  you  for  a  long  time  past  without  any 
decided  measures  being  in  consequence  pursued,  and  when  perhaps 
your  opponents  have  received  favourable  assurances  from  their 
friends,  whose  influence  at  this  juncture  may  be  at  least  equal,  if 
not  superior,  to  Lord  North's.  It  is  impossible  for  me  to  explain  in 
writing  the  state  of  afiairs  in  the  particular  manner  I  could  wish, 
and  therefore  I  hope  you  will  not  come  to  any  resolution  about 
leaving  the  country  until  you  receive  your  letters,  or  I  shall  arrive. 

Tours, 

John  Beistow. 

Journal. 

'  Dec.  'Slst. — Letters  from  the  Court  of  Directors— all 
nonsense.  Their  way  of  shifting  the  question  of  Francis 
Fowke  damns  and  degrades  them  for  ever. 

'■Jan.  3rd,  1780. — No  council.  Hastings,  I  hear,  is  in 
close  conference  with  BarweU,  who,  I  conclude,  will 
throw  all  the  obstructions  he  can  in  the  way  of  an  accom- 
modation. Major  Baggs  sets  out  this  day  for  England,  well 
instructed.^     Wheler  shows  me  a  curious    letter   from 

*  (Jan.  1786). — As  to  this  '  enfant  terrible '  of  the  Francis  family,  Major 
Baggs,  Francis  thus  writes  to  Godfrey  (Nov.  18, 1779)  : '  Major  Baggs  has  now 
been  almost  a  twelvemonth  in  Bengal,  and  has  as  yet  done  no  mischief  of  any 
sort.  This  perhaps  has  been  the  only  innocent  part  of  his  life.  I  am  sorry  to 
say  he  has  had  hut  little  encouragement  to  persevere.  The  Court  of  Direc- 
tors have  taken  public  notice  of  his  evasion,  and  have  ordered  him  home 
again.  It  seems  they  object  to  the  running  of  field  officers  into  their  settle- 
ments. After  all,  this  is  a  cruel  stroke  to  him,  and  one  which  he  has  not 
deserved.    The  plain  truth  is  that  he  has  no  particular  reason  for  living  in 


1780]  MAJOR  BAGGS  SENT  TO  ENGLAND.  181 

Brigadier-General  Stuart  at  Madras,  in  which  he  says  that 
Munro  is  determined  to  stay,  in  order  to  prevent  his  suc- 
cession to  the  chief  command ;  also  that  he  condemns  the 
present  plan  of  expeditionary  conquest,  &c.,  as  much  as  I 
do,  and  has  written  home  accordingly.  Mackenzie  told 
me  a  few  days  ago  that  the  character  of  this  man  was 
reprobated  and  abhorred  by  everybody  who  knew  him, 
and  that  he  had  the  blackest  heart  that  ever  was  lodged 
in  a  human  breast.  The  evidence  of  one  Scotchman 
against  another  is  not  to  be  discredited. 

'  bth. — John  Murray  shows  me  a  letter  from  his  brother 
at  Allahabad  fuU  of  the  ravings  of  Coote  against  Hastings. 
Enraged  at  the  treaty  with  the  Eana  of  Ghode,  and  at 
Palmer's  going  up  to  be  a  spy  on  him. 

'  Qth. — ^Visit  Hastings.  Advise  him  to  extirpate  the 
French  utterly  out  of  Bengal,  which  he  says  he  wiU  do. 

'  10th. — Wo  meeting  of  the  board  since  December  30. 
Valuable  piece  of  ground  in  Calcutta  given  to  Joseph 
Price,  in  reward  of  his  services. 

'  12th. — Sir  John  Day  very  forward  to  mediate  between 
Hastings  and  me,  talks  a  great  deal  to  Hastings,  who 
dupes  him. 

'  ISth. — Sir  John  Day  tells  me  he  has  fixed  to-morrow 
for  me  to  call  on  Hastings. 

'  lith. — Charming  letter  from  Coote  of  January  2, 
"  Thus  situated,  I  suppose,  gentlemen,  you  will  find  it  ne- 
cessary to  lay  aside  all  views  of  foreign  conquests,  and  to 
attend  solely  to  the  preservation  of  what  we  possess." 

India,  except  that  I  am  here ;  but  I  suspect  that  he  may  have  some  particu- 
lar reason  for  not  living  in  England.  As  he  is  an  incomparable  soldier,  they 
could  not  do  better  than  engage  him  in  their  service. .  .  .  Apropos,  since  it  is 
not  impossible,  though  highly  improbable,  that  my  eldest  girls  may  have 
proposals,  I  hereby  give  you  full  and  entire  authority  to  act  for  me  in  that 
case.  In  addition  to  the  ordinary  precautions  taken  on  such  occasions, 
observe  that  rank  in  life  must  be  attended  to.' 


182  JIEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

He  also  takes  to  himself  the  merit  of  obtaining  taucaws 
from  the  Vizier  for  the  pay  of  the  troops. 

'  VJth. — Private  conversation  w^ith  Hastings  in  Auriol's 
department  in  the  council  house.  He  seemed  to  have  comd 
prepared  to  persuade  me  that  his  Mahratta  war  still  pro- 
mised success,  and  that  it  was  indispensably  necessary  to 
pursue  it.  He  began,  however,  with  acknowledging  that 
if  he  could  have  foreseen  all  the  events  that  have  inter- 
vened, he  would  not  have  undertaken  the  measure ;  but 
that  the  government  being  now  embarked,  must  proceed^ 
&c.  He  also  laboured  to  convince  me  that  I  had  no 
essential  interest  in  insisting  on  the  reinstatement  of 
young  Eowke  and  Mahomed  Eeza  Cawn.  Against  the 
latter,  and  against  old  Powke,  he  expressed  the  most 
violent  rage  and  resentment.  He  confessed  he  had  no 
expectations  from  Eyre  Coote,  but  considered  him  as  an 
enemy.  On  the  whole,  there  was  great  appearance  of 
openness  in  his  discourse,  with  which  mine  corresponded. 
As  I  would  not  relax  about  the  reinstatements,  &c.,  the 
.conversation  ended  in  nothing  but  simply  his  request 
that  the  negotiation  might  stiU  continue  open,  to  which  I 
consented. 

'  JSTon  me  impedient  privatse  offensiones,  quo  minus  pro 
reipublicEe  salute  etiam  cum  inimicissimo  consentiam. 

'  20iA. — ^Visit  Hastings  ;  received  with  every  demonstra- 
tion of  frankness,  cordiahty  and  attention.  He  relaxed 
upon  all  the  points,  except  Fowke's  going  up  to  BenareSj 
which  he  cannot  endure  the  thought  of :  stiU  that  pointy 
however,  is  to  be  accommodated  to  my  satisfaction.  He 
seems  now  to  speak  more  openly  than  ever,  that,  if  we 
come  to  an  accommodation,  Barwell  will  go  home  in  thq 
Swallow  ;  that  Coote  has  protested  against  the  treaty  with 
the  Eana  of  Ghode,  in  a  letter  to  the  board,  which  Bar- 
well  and  he  have  withheld  until  Barwell  can  receive  an 


1780]  INDIAN  JOUKNAL.  18^ 

answer  about  it  from  him.  Ample  justice  done  by  us  botli 
to  the  character  and  conduct  of  Sir  Eyre  Coote.  He 
curses  Hosea  without  reserve,  and  swears  that  he  Avent  up 
to  Lucknow  without  any  authority  whatsoever.  Yet  he 
must  have  Muxadabad.  I  tell  him  all  I  have  heard 
about  the  two  lack,  &c.,  which  I  thought  wounded  him 
to  the  quick.  The  tears  almost  gushed  from  his  eyes. 
No  conclusion,  but  I  think  it  looks  like  it ;  nothing  material 
demanded  of  me,  but  not  to  oppose  or  distress  the  execu- 
tion of  the  measures  actually  resolved  on. — N.B.  The 
present  treaty,  if  concluded,  to  cease  and  determine  on 
19th  October  next;^  from  that  time  each  of  us  to  do  as 
we  think  proper.  To  this  article,  proposed  by  Hastings^ 
I  most  joyfully  assent.  Hastings  professes  the  warmest 
resentment  against  the  Supreme  Court.  I  communicate 
every  particular  to  Mr.  Wheler  and  Sir  Eobert  Chambers^ 
except  Coote's  protest  and  Barwell  going  home,  on  which 
I  promised  personally  to  be  silent.  This  day  another 
absurd  letter  from  Coote,  dated  6th  January  ;  vide. 

'  24ith. — Barwell  at  the  council  excuses  himself  for  not 
waiting  on  me  this  morning,  as  he  had  proposed ;  that 
his  intention,  in  general,  was  to  say  that  if  the  negotiation 
now  on  the  tapis  succeeded,  he  would  go  away  in  the 
Swallow ;  that  he  wished  to  interest  me  in  favour  of  a 
few  people  here,  and  in  return  offered  me  the  exertion 
of  all  his  interest  in  England  to  promote  my  views  in. 
Bengal,  to  which  he  never  intended  to  return.  I  said  I 
should  be  ready  to  listen  to  what  he  had  to  say  whenever 
he  pleased. 

'25^A. — Long  visit  from  Mr.  BarwelL  He  seems 
determined  to  go  away  at  all  events  ;  asserts  that  the 
moment  he  sets  his  foot  on  board  he  shall  consider  him- 
self as  disengaged  and  unconnected  with  Mr,  Hastings 
•^  At  which  time  the  existing  commission  of  the  Council  would  expii'e.     ' 


184  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

for  ever  ;  and  that  he  felt  himself  ill-treated  by  Hastings^ 
who  ought  to  have  surrendered  the  government  to  him, 
and  by  his  friends  in  England,  who  had  constantly  let  him 
down,  while  they  availed  themselves  of  his  interest  and 
connections  to  support  their  own  cause.  He  declared 
that  he  never  could  return  to  this  country,  and  offered 
himself  to  me  body  and  soul,  provided — and  there  he 
seemed  to  wait  for  encouragement,  which  I  did  not  give 
him  ; — but  it  was  plain  enough  what  he  meant.  He  talked 
of  resigning  all  his  own  pretensions  to  me,  past,  present, 
and  to  come  ;  of  supporting  my  views  here  by  all  his 
interest  in  England  ;  and  even  to  prevail  on  Hastings  to 
resign  the  government  to  me.  I  treated  all  this  discourse 
as  mere  moonshine,  and  fairly  told  him  that  he  had  no- 
thing to  offer  me,  for  he  would  certainly  be  turned  out ; 
that  if  I  was  not  governor  I  should  go  away  ihe  end 
of  this  year,  and  that  his  idea  of  the  chance  of  being 
governor,  or  even  continued  in  the  council,  was  purely 
chimerical ;  consequently  that  he  could  have  no  claim  on 
me  for  the  surrender  of  such  pretensions.  He  seemed  to 
admit  the  truth  of  all  this,  and  ended  with  saying  that  he 
should  rely  on  my  good  nature,  and  trust  his  friends  to 
my  mercy.  I  told  him  that  he  had  nothing  to  fear  for 
his  friends  from  the  circumstance  of  his  leaving  Bengal, 
for  that  I  certaiidy  never  should  make  use  of  the  power 
which  his  absence  might  give  me  to  do  any  act  which  I 
presumed  he  would  stay  to  prevent,  for  that  I  considered 
a  violation  of  good  faith,  of  which  I  was  entirely  incapable. 
But  I  declared  to  him  frankly  that,  if  I  got  power  by  any 
other  means,  such  as  an  appointment  from  home  or  Mr. 
Hastings'  departure,  &c.,  the  first  use  I  should  make  of  it 
would  be  to  remove  all  his  and  Mr.  Hastings'  people  out 
of  office,  as  it  would  be  impracticable  for  me  to  conduct 
the  government  with  such  instruments.    On  the  whole,  he 


1780]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  185 

assured  me  he  was  determined  to  go  home  at  all  events. 
It  seemed  to  me  that  Hastings  had  not  communicated 
to  him  the  particulars  of  my  conversations  with  him. 

'  Feb.  1st. — Hastings  now  talks  of  impeaching  the 
whole  body  of  the  judges.  In  the  course  of  abuse  with 
which  he  constantly  loads  the  Court  of  Directors,  he  this 
day  charged  them  with  duplicity  and  falsehood,  in  saying 
that  the  paper  alluded  to  in  his  famous  letter  of  Aug.  15, 
1777,  was  not  before  them,  when  he  had  actually  sent  a 
copy  of  it  to  the  chairman. 

'  4:th. — Wheler  absent.  I  yield  to  Hastings'  plan  for 
making  salt  in  the  year  in  the  24  pergunnas.  Dine  at 
Mrs.  Hastings'  with  Sir  John  Day.  A  pacific  dinner.  In 
the  evening  go  to  the  lakes  with  Mr.  Wheler. 

'  hth. — At  the  lakes. 

'  &th. — Eeturn  at  night  to  Calcutta  through  a  violent 
storm — the  first  fall  of  rain  we  have  had  these  five  months. 

'  Ith. — At  night  a  final  conversation  with  Hastings. 
Francis  Fowke  and  Mr.  Mahomed  Eeza  Cawn  to  be 
reinstated.  Bristow  suspended  till  the  first  advice  of  the 
new  arrangement.  ...  In  return  I  shall  give  a 
negative  support  to  the  measures  already  resolved  on 
and  now  in  execution.  Old  Powke  to  be  handsomely 
provided  for,  but  not  to  go  to  Benares.  Measures  to  be 
forthwith  taken  to  detach  Hyder  AUy  and  the  llTizam 
from  the  Marattas.  At  night  letters  from  Bristow, 
Mr.  EUis,  Lord  Barrington,  &c.,  aL.  amounting  to  this, 
that  I  ought  to  quit  this  year. 

'  ^th. — Long  conversation  with  Fowke,  who  seems 
highly  dissatisfied,  and  talks  of  standing  his  ground  on  the 
strength  of  his  English  interest.  I  never  saw  anything  so 
wild  and  unreasonable.  Yet,  for  this  I  have  been  con- 
tending with  Hastings  above  a  month. 

'  llih. — ^Barwell   absent.      Minutes    on   the   petition 


186  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

ordered  to  be  recorded  the  4tli  inst.     Settle  Mr.  Fowke's 
business  with  H.  on  his  own  principles. 

'  Vlth. — Hastings  shows  me  a  letter  from  Captain 
Palmer  at  Benares.  Coote  exasperated  at  his  going  up  ; 
and  pulled  different  ways  by  the  different  parties  in  his 
family.  His  punishment  is  begun,  and  I  trust  will  never 
end  but  with  his  life.  At  night  a  letter  from  Wombwell, 
dated  Lucknow,  February  5,  that  Coote  is  ready  to 
join  me,  body  and  soul,  provided  I  will  write  him  a 
letter  of  compliment :  now,  at  last,  I  have  got  the 
scoundrel  at  my  feet.  Young  Fowke's  appointment 
ordered.  A  curiosity.  This  day  Mr.  Barwell  sends  to 
desire  leave  to  pay  his  respects  to  .  .  .  Offers  of  a  passage 
to  England,  &c. 

'  IQth. — The  famous  Bridgoo  Kissen  comes  to  pay  his 
duty ;  Impey,  I  hear,  is  mortally  wounded  at  this  accom- 
modation, concluded  without  his  participation,  and  by  the 
apparent  mediation  of  Sir  John  Day,  whom  he  detests. 
But  that  Sir  E.  Chambers  should  be  a  party  to  it,  invited 
and  inviting  to  friendly  pacific  dinners,  is  insupportable^ 
That  villain's  punishment,  too,  I  trust  is  coming.  The 
execration  in  which  he  is  held  is  rooted  in  the  heart  of 
every  human  creature  in  this  country.  No  Eevenue 
Board  this  day.  Hastings  and  his  lady  go  up  to  Sook^ 
saugur  to  indulge  in  agreeable  reflections. 

'  lith. — John  Wombwell  arrives  from  Lucknow  with 
full  powers  from  Coote  to  treat,  offering  to  come  down 
if  Barwell  stays.  Pity  and  compassion  is  all  that  Womb-* 
well  hopes  to  obtain  for  him.  Eeseutment  would  be 
thrown  away  upon  him. 

'  2hth. — Letter  from  Naylor,  our  attorney,  with  minutes 
of  the  proceedings  of  the  Supreme  Court  relative  to  him. 

'■Mr  Laurence  :  I  hope  your  lordship  does  not  mearl 
that  Mr.  ISTaylor  should  answer  in  vinculis. 


1780]  BAR  WELL  LEA\'ES  INDL4..  l87 

'  Chief  Justice  :  "WTiy  not  ?  Mr.  Nay  lor  will  have  more 
time  to  think  of  his  conduct  and  prepare  his  answer. 

'il/r  Laurence  :  It  is  a  bad  place  for  contemplation.^ 

'Private  letter  from  Barwell  to  Hastings,  in  which  he 
makes  it  a  personal  request  that  he  may  be  allowed  bills 
on  the  Company  to  the  amount  of  25,000^. 

'  I  flatly  refuse  it. 

'  2^th. — Mr  Barwell's  house  taken  for  five  years  by  his 
own  vote  at  31,720  current  rupees  per  annum,  to  be  paid 
half-yearly,  in  advance.  Mr.  Wheler  and  I  declare 
we  shall  not  sign  the  lease.  Declares  his  resignation, 
and  desires  a  passage  in  the  Swallow ;  demands  a  re- 
mittance of  30,000Z.  Sets  aside  the  Company's  orders 
about  Wombwell. 

'  Mar.  1st. — Barwell  comes  to  my  house  to  take  leave, 
with  a  fine  palavering  speech.  I  believe  he  begins  to  be 
afraid  of  me.^ 

'  IZth. — List  of  recommendations  from  Coote,  super- 

'  The  Mr.  Naylor  here  mentioned  was  a  Devonshire  man,  who  had  been 
recommended  by  Dunning  to  his  fellow  cireuiteer  Impey,  and  had  become 
attorney  to  the  Company.  Attached  by  the  Supreme  Court  for  a  contempt, 
he  was  confined  for  a  few  days ;  and  died  some  months  after  of  the  effects 
of  the  climate.  Mr.  Impey,  in  his  memoirs  of  his  father,  declares,  on  the 
evidence  of  Sir  Elijah's  papers,  that  the  Chief  Justice  had  nothing  to  do 
with  the  proceeding;  that  it  was  Hyde  who  committed  Naylor;  and  that  the 
Chief  Justice  was  actually  at  Chittagong  at  the  time.  If  so,  Hyde  must 
have  been  the  judge  termed  by  Francis  '  Chief  Justice.'  But  I  must 
acknowledge  that  I  cannot  place  absolute  reliance  on  Mr.  Impey's  accuracy 
in  his  pious  attempts  to  defend  his  father. 

''  'To  Major  Baggs,   March  2,  1780. — ^Mr.  Barwell  goes  home  in  the 

present  ship,  on  very  bad  terms  with  Hastings He   made  me   a 

direct  ofier  of  renouncing  Hastings  and  all  his  works  in  scecula  sisculorum, 
and  to  exert  all  his  influence  in  England  to  support  my  views  in  India, 
whatever  they  may  be'  ....  'You  may  tell  him  I  have  no  thought  of 
hostility,  but  much  will  depend  on  the  conduct  he  observes  in  England.  Au 
restehe  is  too  black  to  be  touched  or  approached,'  His  last  act  in  council 
(he  adds)  'was  to  vote  (with  Hastings)  that  forty-five  thousand  rupees  be 
paid  to  him,  Barwell,  "in lieu  of  house  rent,"  and  to  grant  in  council  a 
lease  of  his  own  premises,  for  the  service  of  the  Company,  at  25,000 
rupees  per  annum,' 


188  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

seding  five  captains,  to  give  a  battalion  to  Dixon.  I 
declare  to  Hastings  that  I  wiU  not  consent  to  this  iniquitous 
practice.  Wheler  says  the  same,  and  even  Hastings,  I 
think,  seems  ready  enough  to  leave  the  commander-in- 
chief  to  his  reflections.     Determination  deferred. 

'  16th. — Old  Fowke  tells  me  that  he  owes  his  son's 
reinstatement  to  the  Clive  interest.  He  now  makes 
a  separate  cause  from  his  son,  and  thinks  it  very  proper 
that  he  should  be  custom-master  in  the  room  of  Petrie. 
In  short,  he,  whom  I  have  by  main  strength  replaced 
in  the  road  to  fortune,  seems  just  as  much  dissatisfied  as 
Wombwell  and  Bristow. 

'  17th. — Despatch  the  Ceres. 

'  19th,  Sunday. — No  board  since  Monday  last. 

'  20th. — Council.  Mr.  Wheler  and  I  demand  our 
salaries  and  arrears  at  the  valuation  allowed  to  the 
other  members  and  judges.  It  makes  a  difference  to 
me  of  13,300  current  rupees  a  year. 

'  April  1st. — Letters  from  Baggs  at  Trincomalee,  23rd 
February,  on  his  way  to  Suez.  Being  suspected  of 
carrying  despatches  from  me,  he  is  informed  by  Andrew 
Boss,  that  the  Admiral,  Sir  Edward  Hughes,  Sir  Thomas 
Eumbold,  and  all  their  coadjutors  send  and  give  orders  to 
Captain  Mitchell,  Mr.  WooUey  (the  Nabob's  secretary), 
and  to  everybody  else  to  mar  his  journey  as  much  as 
possible,  &c. 

'  Strange  reports  of  mischief  and  confusion  at  Madras. 
Many  letters  say  that  Eumbold,  after  using  many  violent 
and  indecent  expressions  to  the  Nabob,  forgot  himself  so 
far  as  to  threaten  to  strike  him,  on  which  the  Nabob 
drew  his  kris,  and  declared  that  he  would  infallibly  stab 
him  if  he  proceeded. 

'  Plagued  out  of  my  life  by  Bristow,  whom  nothing  but 
instant  possession  of  his  post  will  satisfy. 


1780]  INDIAN  JOURNAL.  189 

'  3rd. — Encore  by  Livius  on  the  same  subject ;  vide 
Bristow's  letter  to  me  and  my  answer. 

'  7  th. — Eest.  Mr.  Wheler  and  I  now  feel  the  misery 
and  plague  of  being  supposed  to  possess  power,  when  in 
effect  we  have  it  not.  I  never  was  so"  tormented  before. 
This  day  complete  the  sale  of  my  garden,  house,  &c. 
to  Mr.  Livius  for  30,000  current  rupees,  and  execute  the 
assignment. 

'  10th. — Mr.  Pawson,  bullied  into  it  by  Hastings,  resigns 
his  office   of  paymaster-general.     The  governor-general 
recommends  Alexander  to  be  paymaster-general ;  Murray  , 
to  be  commissary. 

'  11th. — New  plan  of  Dewanny  Adawlut's  passed. 
Opium  contract  continued  for  one  year  to  Mackenzie. 
— N.B.  Mr.  Hastings  had  settled  privately  with  Captain 
Plowden  to  give  it  him  for  three  years  without  consult- 
ing me,  and,  as  I  have  reason  to  believe,  to  share  it  with ' 
Ramus. 

'  14^A. — Violent  quarrel  with  Hastings  about  the  opium 
contract,  in  which  he  says  he  has  been  overreached  and 
slighted.  This  brings  on  other  explanations  and  re- 
proaches, especially  about  the  orders  to  Purling.  I 
complain  as  fast  as  he.  Mr.  Plowden  has  behaved  very 
ill.  ~  Mr.  Wheler  himself  says  so,  and  seems  very  uneasy 
at  the  whole  business.  Hastings  promises  to  remove 
Tom  Graham  from  Benares  instantly;  vide  my  letter 
to  that  honest  gentleman.  In  short,  I  never  yet  found 
myself  in  such  unpleasant  circumstances.  CoUte  qu'il 
coute,  the  first  news  from  England  shall  be  decisive. 

'  April  11th. — Mutiny  at  the  governor's.  Vide  par- 
ticulars. 

'  May  1st. — Letter  from  John  Bristow  demanding  his 
appointment  to  the  Eegidence  in  Oude.  I  have  not  read 
it,  but  Mr.  Wheler  tells  me  it  is  couched  in  very  improper 


190  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [178(5 

terms  ;  not  read,  that  I  may  first  speak  with  H.  on  the 
subject. 

'  24:th. — Conversation  introduced  by  Mackenzie  about 
Bristow.  M.  condemns  his  letter  entirely ;  a  vast  deal  of 
bile  pro  and  con.,  but  directed  to  conciliate.  "  0  qui  me 
gelidis  in  montibus  Hasmi  sistat !  " 

'  June  bth. — Monday.  The  hottest  weather  I  ever  felt. 
Conversation  with  H.  at  his  house.  He  professes  the 
most  earnest  desire  and  most  determined  resolution  to 
inake  peace  as  fast  as  possible  ;  agreed  to  leave  Coote  out 
of  all  future  deliberations  as  a  man  totally  incapable  of 
advising  or  acting,  and  only  capable  of  embarrassing  and 
obstructing.  He  says  that  a  large  body  of  horse  is  cer- 
tainly arrived  at  Cuttac  from  ISFagpore,  but  that  Moodajee's 
disposition  is  to  continue  in  friendship  with  us  and  to 
mediate  the  peace.  On  this  mediation  H.  seems  to  place 
great  dependence. 

'  12th. — Mr.  Wheler  excessively  out  of  spirits,  and 
unable  to  attend  the  council,  but  agrees  heartily  with  me 
to  give  a  flat  negative  to  the  Camac  expedition.  In  truth, 
the  situation  we  are  left  in  is  enough  to  distract  us. 
Unable  to  act  with  or  against  this  wicked  man,  who,  while 
he  is  at  the  head  of  the  government,  will  neither  make 
peace  himself  nor  suffer  us  to  make  it,  but  would  ruin  us 
in  the  attempt.  In  the  meantime,  Coote  stands  aloof,  re- 
fuses to  attend  his  duty  at  the  board,  and  abuses  us  for 
everything  that  is  done  and  not  done.  Vide  his  impu- 
dent letter  to  Watson  of  May  26. 

'  ^Oth. — Profound  silence  and  melancholy  on  all  sides. 
Mr.  Wheler  and  I  send  our  last  minute,  dated  the  29th, 
to  the  secretary  in  the  evening  at  Serampoor. 

'  July  1st. — At  Serampoor. 

'  2nd,  Sunday. — At  Calcutta.  Visit  from  Sir  John  Day, 
fuU  of  lamentation  at  the  rupture  between  the  governor 


1780]         HOSTILITIES  "WITH  HASTINGS  EENEWED.  191 

and  me  ;  that  H.  is  in  the  lowest  state  of  misery  and  de- 
jection, &c.  All  I  could  say  in  return  was,  that  his  un- 
easiness could  not  be  greater  than  mine,  and  that  I  should 
rejoice  in  any  event  that  might  relieve  me  from  this 
dreadful  situation,  in  which  I  must  either  renew  the  old 
odious  contest  with  him  or  ruin  myself  by  joining  with 
him  in  measures  which  I  had  uniformly  opposed  and  re- 
probated for  two  years  together ;  that  it  was  not  fair  nor 
conformable  to  the  principles  of  our  temporary  pacification 
to  reduce  me  to  this  dilemma,  and  that  I  had  originally 
declared  to  him  that  I  never  could  concur  in  any  more 
expeditions  from  the  upper  country.  In  order,  if  possible, 
to  put  an  end  to  the  present  question,  I  desired  Sir 
J.  D.  to  propose  to  him  to  suspend  the  final  instructions 
to  Major  Camac  until  we  heard  whether  he  was  continued 
in  the  government  or  not,  which  we  ought  to  know  by 
the  middle  of  August  at  farthest  by  the  way  of  Suez ; 
that  if  he  was  he  might  then  do  as  he  pleased,  for  that  I 
should  then  relinquish  all  further  interference  in  the 
management  of  the  war  ;  that  if  he  would  agree  to  this 
expedient  all  the  late  minutes  might  be  withdrawn. 

'  3rd. — Sir  John  Day  again ;  that  H.  insists  on  his  right 
to  conduct  the  war  as  he  pleases  ;  pretends  to  have  no  re- 
collection of  my  declaration  against  new  expeditions,  and 
says  he  cannot  suspend  the  instructions  to  Major  Camac. 
C'est-a-dire,  I  will  have  everything  my  own  way.  Yet,  in 
fact,  he  would  lose  nothing  by  the  delay,  since  it  would  be 
impossible  for  Camac  to  act  before  October,  and  even  then 
the  enterprise  ought  to  be  supposed  to  be  a  diversion  made 
by  Goddard's  army.  In  this  state,  I  fear  I  must  leave 
this  business,  feeling  the  approach  of  a  fever  very  strong 
upon  me.     About  noon  very  ill  and  forced  to  go  to  bed. 

'  ith. — Worse.     H.  goes  up  the  river  with  Mrs.  H. 

'  bth. — Fever  abates. 


192  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

'  Qth. — Low  and  dejected  to  the  last  degree.  Another 
visit  from  Sir  John  Day.  He  laments  that  these  minutes 
should  exist,  and  that  they  ought  to  be  withdrawn, 
&c.,  in  all  which  I  profess  the  same  wish  as  warmly  as 
he  can  if  it  can  be  done  without  my  departing  from  my 
principles  or  being  committed  in  the  measure.' 

Francis  must  by  this  time  have  read,  with  all  the  sick- 
ness of  hope  deferred,  such  assurances  as  the  following 
letter  of  Welbore  Ellis  (received  about  this  time),  now 
conveyed  to  him : — 

Welbore  Ellis  to  Francis. 

February  1780i 

I  -will  answer  for  nothing :  but  I  am  incUned  to  believe,  tliat 
government  intends  to  support  your  pretensions,  and  if,  in  tlie  plan 
to  be  adopted,  it  shall  take  that  leading  part  which  it  ought  to  do, 
that  you  wiU  not  be  superseded,  but  that  you  will  be  put  at  the 
head  of  afiairs,  unless  government  should  think  fit  to  put  some  man 
of  great  rank  and  dignity  at  the  head  of  that  government,  and  then 
I  suppose  that  they  would  look  to  you  as  the  eflScient  man  of  busi- 
ness, and  consider  of  the  means  to  make  that  situation  agreeable  to 
you. 

The  statement  of  the  final  rupture  with  Hastings  which 
now  followed  cannot  in  justice  be  taken  from  Francis's 
papers  only.  The  following  narrative  of  it,  among  many 
— for  no  event  caused  more  controversy  at  the  time,  or 
has  been  more  frequently  dwelt  on  since  by  partisans  and 
enemies  of  both  the  actors — appears  to  sum  up  the  cir- 
cumstances very  fairly.^ 

'The  opposition  which  was  made  by  Francis  to  the 
proceedings  on  the  Jumna  brought  to  a  crisis  the 
animosities  which  the  struggle  between  him  and  the 
governor-general  had  so  long  maintained.  On  July  20, 
1780,  Mr.  Hastings,  in  answering  a  minute  of  Francis, 
declared,  "  I  do  not  trust  to  his  promise  of  .  candouf, 
convinced  that  he  is  incapable  of  it.     I  judge  of  his 

1  Mill's  'History  of  British  India/iv.  60. 


1780]  BREACH  OP  AGREEMENT.  193 

public  conduct  by  my  experience  of  his  private,  which  I 
have  found  to  be  devoid  of  truth  and  honour."  The 
ground  of  these  severe  expressions,  the  governor-general 
stated  to  be  a  solemn  agreement  formed  between  him 
and  Mr.  Francis,  which  Mr.  Francis  had  broken.  Of  this 
transaction  the  following  appear  to  have  been  the  material 
circumstances  : — When  the  parliamentary  appointment, 
during  five  years,  of  the  governor-general  and  council 
expired  in  1778,  the  expectation  of  a  change  in  the 
Indian  administration  was  suspended  by  the  reappoint- 
ment, upon  the  motion  of  the  king's  chief  minister,  of 
Mr.  Hastings  for  a  single  year.'  ^  Upon  the  arrival  of 
this  intelligence  in  India,  an  attempt  was  made  by  some 
mutual  friends  of  Mr.  Hastings  and  Mr.  Francis,  to  deliver 
the  government,  at  a  period  of  difficulty  and  danger,  from 
the  effects  of  their  discordance.  Both  parties  acknow- 
ledged the  demand  which  the  present  exigency  presented 
for  a  vigorous  and  united  administration;  and  both 
professed  a  desire  to  make  any  sacrifice  of  personal  feelings 
and  personal  interests,  for  the  attainment  of  so  important 
an  object.  On  the  part  of  Mr.  Francis  it  was  stipulated 
that  Mohammed  Eeza  Khan,  Mr.  Bristow,  and  Mr.  Fowke, 
should  be  reinstated  in  conformity  to  the  Company's 
orders  ;  and,  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Hastings,  that  the  Mah- 
ratta  war,  the  responsibility  of  which  Mr.  Francis  had 
disclaimed  and  thrown  personally  on  the  governor-gene- 
ral, should  be  conducted  in  conformity  with  his  concep- 
tions and  plans.  It  was  this  part  of  the  agreement  which 
Mr.  Hastings  accused  his  opponent  of  violating,  and  of  de- 
priving him,  by  a  treacherous  promise  of  co-operation, 

^  This  is  not  stated  witli  sufScient  exactness.  The  existing  government 
of  India,  under  the  Act  of  1773  (and,  with  it,  the  term  of  office  of  th  e  governor- 
general  and  four  councillors),  was  extended  for  one  year,  from  April  5,  1779, 
by  the  Act  19  Geo.  III.  c.  61,  which  arrangement  was  continued  by  a  sub- 
sequent Act  until  after  the  return  of  Francis  from  India. 
VOL.  II.  0 


194  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

which  induced  Mr.  Barwell  to  depart  for  Europe,  of  that 
authority  which  the  vote  of  Mr.  Barwell  ensured.  Mr. 
Francis,  on  the  other  hand,  solemnly  declared  that  he 
never  was  party  to  the  engagement  stated  by  Mr.  Hastings, 
or  had  a  thought  of  being  bound  by  it.  This  agreement 
with  regard  to  the  Mahratta  war  he  explained  as  extend- 
ing only  to  the  operations  then  commenced  on  the 
Malabar  coast,  but  not  to  fresh  operations  in  another  part 
of  the  Mahratta  dominions.  Mr.  Hastings  produced  a 
paper  containing  the  following  words  :  '  Mr.  Francis  will 
not  oppose  any  measures  which  the  governor  will  recom- 
mend for  the  prosecution  of  the  war  in  which  we  are 
supposed  to  be  engaged  with  the  Mahrattas,  or  for  the 
general  support  of  the  present  political  system  of  his 
government.'  To  the  terms  of  this  agreement  presented 
to  Mr.  Francis  in  writing,  he  affirmed  that  Mr.  Francis  gave 
his  full  and  deliberate  consent.  The  reply  of  Mr.  Francis 
was  in  the  following  words  :  '  In  one  of  our  conversations 
in  February  last,  Mr.  Hastings  desired  me  to  read  a  paper 
of  memorandums,  among  which  I  presume  this  article  was 
inserted.  I  returned  it  to  him  the  moment  I  had  read  it, 
with  a  declaration  that  I  did  not  agree  to  it,  or  hold  my- 
self bound  by  the  contents  of  it,  or  to  that  effect.'  Mr. 
Francis  added  some  reasonings,  drawn  from  the  natural 
presumptions  of  the  case.  But  these  reasonings  and  pre- 
sumptions had  little  tendency  to  strengthen  the  evidence 
of  his  personal  assertion,  the  ground  betweeu  him  and 
his  antagonist,  on  which  this  question  seems  finally  to 
rest.  With  the  utmost  earnestness  Mr.  Hastings  repeated 
the  affirmation  of  the  terms  on  which  Mr.  Francis  declared 
his  assent,  and  at  this  point  the  verbal  controversy  between 
them  closed.' 

'  On  a  subject  of  so  much  interest  to  both,'  says  Mr. 
Thornton,  'Hist,  of  India,'  ii.  155,  'care  would  be  taken 


1780]  BREACH  OF  AGREEMENT.  195 

that  the  main  provisions  of  the  compact  were  understood  ; 
and  it  is  not  easy  to  evade  the  conclusion  that  either 
Erancis  was  guilty  of  a  gross  breach  of  faith,  or  Hastings 
of  the  assertion  of  a  scandalous  falsehood.  The  presump- 
tion, on  the  whole,  hes  against  Francis,  and  his  character 
will  probably  never  be  relieved  from  the  imputation.' 

The  question,  after  the  lapse  of  ninety  years,  must  be 
left  in  the  same  obscurity  which  at  first  enveloped  it. 
Hastings  was  absolutely  unprincipled  where  his  own 
'  autocracy  '  was  concerned,  and  it  would  be  a  bold  con- 
clusion to  pin  one's  faith  on  his  veracity  in  this  instance.^ 
But  the  probabilities  of  the  case  seem  rather  in  his  favour. 
Francis,  on  the  other  hand — if  he  was  really  the  great 
anonymous  writer  for  whom  we  take  him — had  been  ac- 
customed for  many  years  to  the  utterance  in  private  of 
slander  and  invective  of  which  he  could  not  avow  himself 
the  author,  and  to  the  use  of  all  the  shifting  disguises  of 
which  men  conscious  of  such  conduct  are  forced  to  seek 
the  protection.  Such  men  may  be  honest  and  honourable 
notwithstanding.  They  lead  double  lives — one  in  the 
dark,  one  in  the  light — and  these  two  may,  possibly,  not 
interfere  with  each  other.  But  the  presumption  in  the 
public  mind  is  apt  to  be  against  them,  on  any  question  of 
straightforward  dealing,  and  the  memory  of  Francis  must 
suffer  accordingly. 

At  the  same  time,  had  it  not  been  for  the  violence  with 
which  each  party  accused  the  other  of  breach  of  faith, 
an  impartial  judge  might  perhaps  have  summed  up  the 

^  See  a  remarkable  and  apparently  incontrovertible  instance  of  Hastings' 
iinscrupulousnesa  of  assertion  in  Mr.  Gleig's  life  of  him,  noticed  in  Thorn- 
ton's 'History  of  India/  vol.  ii.  p.  113.  On  June  29, 1777,  he  writes  to  his 
friend  Mr.  Suliran,  '  I  have  now  no  channel  to  Lord  North  nor  encourage- 
ment to  write  to  him;  yet  I  wish  it  were  possible  to  make  him  acquainted 
with  the  late  proceedings,  especially  those  of  General  Clavering  and  Mr. 
Francis  on  the  20th  inst.'  On  the  very  same  day  he  writes  to  Lord  North, 
giving  him  an  account  of  those  very  proceedings  ! 

o  2 


19S  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

case  without  casting  such  imputation  on  either.  Substan- 
tially, the  quarrel  was  this  :  Francis  had  promised  Hastings 
not  to  interfere  with  his  conduct  of  the  war  against 
the  Mahrattas,  then  carried  on  near  the  Malabar  coast. 
Hastings  wanted  to  carry  on  operations  against  the  same 
enemy  on  the  Jumna,  in  an  entirely  different  quarter  of 
India.  Francis  deemed  himself  not  precluded  by  his' 
promise  from  opposing  this.  Hastings  maintained  that  he 
was.  It  might  therefore  be  regarded  as  only  an  incident 
of  frequent  occurrence,  when  a  compact  is  in  truth  su- 
perseded by  the  occurrence  of  circumstances  unforeseen 
and  unprovided  for. 

The  following  is  Francis's  own  version  of  the  trans- 
action, in  a  letter  to  Tilghman  the  day  before  the  duel. 
It  requires  comparison  with  the  detailed  account  given 
by  Hastings  in  his  letter  to  Sulivan,  printed  in  Gleig's 
memoirs  of  him,  ii.  297  : — 

Calcutta,  August  16,  1780. 

The  issue  to  wMoli  Mr.  Hastings  has  agreed  to  bring  the  ques- 
tion between  us,  prevents  me  from  answering  the  paper  I  received 
from  him  on  Monday  night  in  the  manner  in  which  I  otherwise 
should  have  answered  it.  Nor  indeed  have  I  sufficient  time  to 
spare  from  other  duties,  at  this  juncture  indispensable.  If  I  should 
fall,  I  hope  the  following  declaration  made  now,  with  the  most 
solemn  appeal  to  God  Almighty  for  the  truth  of  it,  will  not  only 
satisfy  my  friends,  but  clear  my  character  and  honour  in  the  opiuion 
of  the  world. 

I  declare,  then,  I  never  was  a  party  to  the  paper  quoted  by  Mr. 
Hastings,  nor  did  I  ever,  directly  or  indirectly,  give  my  assent  to 
it.  On  the  contrary,  when  Mr.  Hastings  desired  me  to  read  a  paper 
of  memorandums,  I  told  him  I  did  not  hold  myself  bound  by  the 
whole  contents  of  it,  or  to  that  effect — though  some  of  the  points 
agreed  on  were  rightly  stated.  He  gave  me  no  copy  of  the  paper, 
nor  did  I  ever  see  it  but  that  moment.  It  was  written  in  his  own 
hand,  and  a  good  deal  scratched.  In  the  same  or  some  subsequent 
conversation,  I  told  him  that  by  agreeing  to  support  the  war  against 
the  Mahrattas,  I  meant  tho  operations  actually  existing  on  the 
Malabar  coast,  which,  since  the  campaign  was  begun,  I   thought 


1780]  DUEL.  107 

stoTild  be  pushed  as  vigorously  as  possible  ;  but  that  I  could'  never 
consent  to  any  new  expeditions  from  the  upper  country.  At  that 
time,  I  believe,  Mr.  Hastings  had  no  measures  of  that  kind  in  con- 
templation. On  a  late  occasion,  I  reminded  Mr.  Hastings  of  the 
foregoing  declaration.  His  answer  was  :  '  Well,  Sir,  this  is  sup- 
porting the  war  on  the  Malabar  coast.' 

These,  I  allow,  are  naked  assertions,  the  truth  of  which  I  have 
no  means  of  proving.  All  that  I  can  add  to  them  is  that  they  are 
exactly  conformable  to  the  language  I  have  constantly  held  on  the 
point  in  question  to  the  gentlemen  with  whom  I  converse  on  such 
subjects.  Mr.  Wheler,  Colonel  Watson,  Mr.  Mackenzie,  Mr. 
Tilghman  and  Mr.  Ducarel  are  in  that  number,  and  to  their  testi- 
mony I  appeal. 

P.  Teaxcis. 

Journal. 

'  August  lith. — Mr.  H.  does  not  return  till  tlie  evening. 
No  council.  At  night  receive  his  minute,  vfhich  he 
says  he  had  reserved  till  my  return,  with  a  private  note.' 

(The  minute,  which  has  been  often  printed,  was  of  an 
exceedingly  hostile  character.) 

Journal. 

'  August  15th. — Eevenue  Board.  When  it  was  over, 
I  took  him  into  a  private  room,  and  read  to  him  the 
following  words  : — 

'  "  Mr.  Hastings, — I  am  preparing  a  formal  answer  to  the 
paper  you  sent  to  me  last  night.  As  soon  as  it  can  be 
finished,  I  shall  lay  it  before  you.  But  you  must  be 
sensible,  Sir,  that  no  answer  I  can  give  to  the  matter 
of  that  paper  can  be  adequate  to  the  dishonour  done  me 
by  the  terms  you  have  made  use  of.  You  have  left  me  no 
alternative  but  to  demand  personal  satisfaction  of  you  for 
the  affronts  you  have  offered  me." 

'  As  soon  as  I  had  read  the  preceding  words  to  Mr. 
Hastings,  he  said  he  expected  the  demand  and  was  ready 
to  answer  it.     We  then  agreed  to  meet  on  the  morning 


198  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

of.  .  .  .  Mention  the  afiair  to  Watson,  who  happens 
to  dine  with  me  to-day  :  he  agrees  to  provide  pistols  in 
order  to  prevent  suspicion. 

'  16</t. — Employed  in  settling  my  afiairs,  burning  papers,^ 
&c.  in  case  of  the  worst.  Dull  work.  This  evening 
Mr.  H.  orders  his  minute  to  be  recorded. 

'  Vlth. — Arrive  at  the  ground  near  Belvedere,  near  an 
hour  before  Mr.  H.,  who  comes  about  6,  with  Colonel 
Pearse.  Watson  marks  out  a  distance  about  14  common 
paces,  the  same,  he  said,  at  which  Mr.  Fox  and  Mr. 
Adam  stood.  My  pistol  missing  fire,  I  changed  it.  We 
then  fired  together,  and  I  was  wounded  and  fell.  I 
thought  my  backbone  was  broke,  and  of  course  that  I 
covild  not  survive  it.  After  the  first  confusion  had  sub- 
sided and  after  I  had  suffered  great  inconvenience  from 
being  carried  to  a  wrong  place,  I  was  at  last  conveyed 
to  Major  Foley's  house  on  a  bed.  The  surgeon  arrived  in 
about  an  hour  and  a  half  from  the  time  I  was  wounded, 
and  cut  out  the  ball,  and  bled  me  twice  in  the  course  of 
the  day. 

'  Mr.  Hastings  sends  to  know  when  he  may  visit  me. 

'  18<A. — In  these  two  days  the  pain  I  suffered  was  very 
considerable. 

'  l%th. — Desire  Colonel  Watson  to  tell  Mr.  Hastings  as 
civilly  as  possible  that  I  am  forced  to  decline  his  visit. 

'  2iih. — Eeturn  to  Calcutta. 

'  Sept.  llih. — I  pay  Sir  E.  C.  a  visit.  He  says  he 
would  have  prevented  this  unfortunate  accident,  if  he 
had  been  here.  I  told  him  he  might  have  done  so 
perhaps,  if  he  had  been  here  six  months  ago,  but  at 
the  time  it  happened  it  was  impossible.  Attend  council : 
great  civility  between  H.  and  me. 

'  Papers  compromising  him  as  Junius,  Mr.  Parkes  suspected.  But  Francis 
must  have  had  plenty  of  papers  condemnable  to  the  fire. 


1780]  PEEPARATIONS  FOR  LEAVING.  199 

'  lith,  Sunday.  — Visit  Mr.  Wheler  in  the  evening 
at  the  gardens.  Find  his  house  full  of  the  government 
people,  and  perceive  plainly,  from  his  own  discourse, 
that  H.  and  he  are  not  in  a  state  of  mortal  enmity : 
nimium  familiariter  exercere  inimicitias  videntur.  They 
are  often  closeted  together,  and  he  tells  me  that  H.  has 
consulted  him  on  several  points. 

'  Oct.  9  th. — Sir  Eyre  Coote  sends  word  that  he  is  not 
able  to  attend  the  board,  and  transmits  a  minute  assenting 
to  the  appointment  of  Sir  Elijah  Impey  to  be  judge  of 
the  Sudder  Dewanny  Adawlet.  Mr.  Wheler  and  I 
strongly  against  it.  I  show  the  letter  of  the  Court 
of  Directors  to  Sir  Eobert  Chambers. 

'  At  night  communicate  my  letter  to  the  Court  of 
Directors  to  Mr.  Wheler,  who  approves  of  it,  and  the 
conduct  I  mean  to  pursue.  I  tell  him  that  nobody  has  a 
claim  on  me  but  himself;  that  if  he  claims  of  me  to 
stay,  I  will  give  it  due  and  serious  consideration.  But 
that  I  can  only  stay  on  the  principle  of  our  agreeing 
first  to  attack  Hastings  horse  and  foot,  throwing  away 
the  scabbard  and  neither  to  give  or  take  quarter.  He 
sees  the  objections  to  such  a  plan,  and  shows  .no  disposi- 
tion to  undertake  it,  at  the  same  time  he  admits  that  it  is 
not  possible  for  me  or  useful  in  any  sense  to  stay  upon 
any  other.  The  offer  I  make  him  leaves  it  with  him 
to  determine  me,  and  obviates  all  cause  of  complaint 
on  his  part.  In  his  heart  I  am  sure  there  is  nothing  he 
wishes  for  more  than  my  departure.  It  relieves  him  at 
once  from  contest  and  a  thousand  difficulties. 

'  2Qth. — The  two  Murrays  take  great  pains  to  satisfy 
me  that  Hastings  and  Stibbert  have  quarrelled,  that 
Stibbert  is  determined  to  think  and  speak  for  himself,  &c. 
&c.  C'est-a-dire,  if  you  choose  to  stay,  you're  sure  of  the 
commander-in-chief.      But  I  know  Mr.  Stibbert  of  old. 


200  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

and  as  to  the  children  of  an  ancient  nation  I  know  them 
too.  The  younger  Murray,  Stibbert's  aide-de-camp,  whom 
I  am  hardly  acquainted  with,  came  this  evening  to  tell 
me  in  confidence  that  he  thought  it  very  necessary 
that  I  should  know  that  Mr.  Wheler  had  been  with 
Stibbert  in  the  morning  to  endeavour  to  make  up  the 
breach  between  him  and  the  governor,  which  the  said 
Murray  thought  very  odd,  not  to  say  suspicious,  &c. 
These  Scotch  are  never  easy  unless  they  can  foment 
division  among  their  superiors,  by  which  they  take  special 
care  to  profit.  It  is  their  temper  and  their  policy.  I 
received  all  he  said  with  the  simplest  air  of  unguarded 
innocence,  at  which  I  doubt  not  the  young  Caledonian 
exulted,  and  called  me  a  damned  feul  as  he  went  down- 
stairs. John  Murray  has  contrived  to  make  Mr  Wheler 
very  unhappy  by  pestering  him  with  reports  invented 
probably  by  himself,  which  he  says  are  current,  that  I  am 
going  home,  that  I  am  forced  away  by  his  joining  Mr. 
Hastings,  &c.  All  which,  added  to  the  dreadful  situation 
of  public  affairs,  which  Mr.  Wheler  says  and  knows  is 
almost  desperate,  touches  him  very  sensibly. 

'  ilst. — In  the  morning  inform  Mr.  Fowke  that  the 
governor  agrees  to  give  him  a  sinecure  of  1500  rs. 
a  month,  with  the  arrears  from  March  last.  After 
some  appearance  of  dissatisfaction  he  seems  content 
at  last,  and  talks  of  paying  the  governor  a  visit.  At 
night  he  comes  with  fury  in  his  looks  and  language, 
and  tells  me  he  has  just  heard  from  his  son  that  Markham 
has  written  to  him  to  propose  to  him  to  give  up  his  office, 
.&c.,  to  which  I  simply  answered,  what  the7i  ?  On  this 
he  burst  into  a  transport  of  rage,  said  there  was  no 
'  nonour  left  in  the  Avorld,  and  that  he  would  not  fall 
unrevenged.     On  this  I  left  him. 

'  Nov.  \st — In  the  evening  receive  a  letter  from  Mr. 


1780]  FRANCIS  LEAVES  INDIA.  201 

Towke,  in  which,  after  charging  me  with  breach  of 
faith,  &c.  (vide  letter)  he  takes  his  leave  of  me  for  ever. 
Such  are  the  fruits  of  taking  Clavering's  friends  on  my 
back,  and  struggling  to  my  utmost  to  serve  them.  With 
Tilman's  advice  I  resolve  not  to  answer  his  letter  nor  to 
take  any  further  notice  of  him. 

'  2nd. — Show  Mr.  Fowke's  letter  to  Mr.  Wheler,  who 
says  that  he  left  him  this  morning  with  a  declared 
resolution  of  going  directly  to  the  governor  to  demand 
justice.  It  is  fit  to  be  observed  that  Mr.  Fowke  has 
never  once  mentioned  to  me  the  overtures  which  have 
passed  between  him  and  Hastings  through  the  medium 
of  ]\Ir.  Wheler. 

'  Sept.  2bth. — Hastings  gives  in  his  propositions  for 
peace  with  the  Mahrattas,  and  for  requesting  Sir  Eyre 
Coote  to  go  to  Madras.     I  give  my  sentiments  freely, 

honestly,   and  with    temper This   move   about 

Coote  is  strange,  and  looks  very  like  a  secret  agreement 
with  Wheler,  or  at  least  an  expectation  that  there  will  be 
no  violent  opposition  when  Coote  is  gone.' 

It  has  been  seen  that  Francis,  ever  since  the  duel, 
had  been  meditating  departure.  But  the  following  entry 
in  his  journal  is  the  first  which  shows  that  he  had  now 
made  up  his  mind  to  it.  The  expectations  which  he  had 
so  obstinately  cherished  were  in  fact  at  an  end.  The 
game  was  up.  One  more  Act  had  passed  in  April  for 
continuing  the  existing  government,  and  Hastings  as 
Governor-General,  for  one  year  longer. 

'  Nov.  2nd. — Governor  moves  that  Mr.  Eider  (who 
returned  with  his  rank  some  months  ago,  and  to  succeed 
to  the  first  vacancy  in  the  Board  of  Trade)  shall  be 
allowed  the  full  salary  of  that  ofiice  from  his  arrival 
till  he  succeeds.     Agreed :    yet  nothing,  I  believe,  can 


202  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PPIILIP  FRANCIS.  [1781 

be  more  improper :  mais  qu'importe  ?  When  the  ship 
is  sinking,  what  does  it  signify  how  soon  we  eat  up 
the   provisions.      The  moment  I  shall  have   made  my 

exit,   enter   desolation Hastings    tells    me,    and 

gives  me  some  good  reasons  for  it,  that  Meer  Jaffier's 
will,  by  which  he  bequeathed  five  lacks  of  rupees  to 
Lord  Clive,  was  a  forgery. 

'  7th. — ^Discover  at  last  that  it  is  impossible  to  go  in 
the  Dutch  ship ;  so  resolve  to  take  my  passage  in  the 
Fox,  Captain  Blackburn.' 

Here  many  leaves  of  the  j  ournal  are  wanting.  Wh  ether 
it  was  left  off,  or  continued,  and  the  contents  subse- 
quently cut  out,  or  lost,  I  cannot  discover.  Tilghman  ac- 
companied him.  Their  voyage  was  unusually  protracted. 
The  Fox  reached  St.  Helena  on  March  12,  but  was 
detained  there  four  months  waiting  for  convoy ;  the 
war  between  England  and  Spain  having  broken  out. 
The  confined  society  and  the  dulness  of  the  place  made 
Francis  say  ever  after,  repeats  his  lady,  '  that  Ennui  was 
the  patron  saint  of  the  island.'  '  I  leave  it  to  yourself 
to  judge,  he  writes  to  a  friend  at  Calcutta,  from  St. 
Helena,  July  26,  'for  indeed  I  am  not  very  well  able  to 
express,  how  tedious  and  weary  this  long  confinement,  at 
such  a  time,  and  in  such  a  place  too,  must  have  been  to 
me.  Many,  who  pretend  to  more  patience,  are,  I  believe, 
as  weary  of  it  as  I  am.' 

'  Oct.  I8th,  1781. — Got  on  board  a  cutter  at  last,  with  Mr. 
Tilghman,  at  midnight,  about  ten  miles  west  of  Dungeness, 
wind  fair  and  very  fresh. 

'  Idth. — At  four  in  the  morning,  landed  at  Dover,  the 
same  day  on  which  I  landed  at  Calcutta  in  1774  :  went 
to  bed  for  a  few  hours  :  arrived  in  Harley  Street  at  ten  at 
night.' 


1781]  KETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  203 


CHAPTEE  III. 
FRANCIS   IX   ENGLAND  :    IMPEACHMENT   OF   HAfiTINGS. 

[1781-1796.] 

Eetum  to  England — ^Reception  there — Defence  of  his  Indian  career 
in  the  press — '  Booksellers'  edition  of  Junius ' — His  fortune — Elected 
M.P.  for  Yarmouth — Parliamentary  career  and  qualiiications  as  a 
speaker — Return  to  England  and  impeachment  of  Hastings — Francis 
excluded  from  the  managership — Elected  M.P.  for  Blechingley — 
Correspondence  with  Burke— Political  sentiments. 

With  the  return  of  Francis  to  England  his  official 
life  ended.  It  had  lasted  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  century 
from  his  first  employment  in  a  public  office  to  his 
quitting  India.  It  had  been  a  singularly  chequered 
career ;  violent,  ambitious,  but  in  the  end  unsuccessful. 
He  had  acquired  a  competency  ;  his  reputation  as  a  states- 
man and  a  man  of  ability  was  established ;  but  the  two 
objects  nearest  his  heart  of  late  years,  the  government 
of  India  and  the  humiliation  of  Hastings,  had  eluded 
his  grasp.  He  had  not,  however,  relaxed  in  the  pursuit 
of  either.  No  sooner  had  he  reached  home  than  he 
set  to  work,  with  that  persevering,  concentrated  industry 
which  distinguished  him  almost  through  life,  to  procure 
the  recall  of  his  enemy  in  the  first  instance,  and  after- 
wards to  promote  his  impeachment. 

He  returned  to  England  an  unpopular  and  dis- 
countenanced man.  The  governor-general,  whom  he 
had  so  fiercely  opposed,  had  hosts  of  friends  both  in 
Parliament   and  the   India   House,  and   a   considerable 


204  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1781 

amount  of  favour  with  the  pubUc.  Francis's  own  private 
life  in  India  had  afforded  plenty  of  scope  for  the  exercise 
of  malevolence  ;  and  his  enemies  were  no  more  scrupulous 
in  their  use  of  the  materials  placed  within  their  reach 
than  he  himself  habitually  was.  His  fierce  and  con- 
temptuous style  of  meeting  the  accusations  against  him, 
of  which  we  have  seen  plenty  of  evidence  in  his  Indian 
correspondence,  seems  to  have  alienated  even  those  who 
were  willhig  to  serve  him.  It  was  reported,  and  the 
rumour  shows  at  all  events  the  general  character  of 
his  reception  at  home,  that  when  he  first  appeared  at 
Court  only  two  persons  would  speak  to  him,  the 
King  and  Lord  North.  Out  of  this  position  he  had 
to  win  his  way  to  public  estimation  and  political  conse- 
quence. He  did  so  by  the  force  of  his  great  talents 
and  vigorous  character.  But  these,  no  doubt,  were 
aided  by  the  circumstance  that  he  had  it  in  his  power 
to  prompt  and  assist,  and  supply  with  almost  all  the 
ammunition  of  their  warfare,  that  phalanx  of  enemies 
which  was  gathering  round  Hastings,  and  which  by 
degrees  grew  to  comprehend  almost  all  the  leading 
statesmen  of  the  country. 

But  another  cause  must  be  mentioned  which  greatly 
added  to  the  suspicious  hostility  with  which  Francis 
was  so  generally  regarded.  This  was  his  known  addiction 
to  anonymous  writing,  and  to  the  use  of  the  public  press 
as  a  vehicle  for  attacking  individuals.  During  his  stay 
in  India,  according  to  one  of  his  enemies,  'he  was 
constantly  furnishing  his  agents  here  with  myriads  of 
lying  squibs  for  the  daily  papers,  and  overloading  with 
pamphlets  that  common  sink  of  filth  and  faction,  the 
shop  of  Almon  and  Debrett,  in  Piccadilly.'  (A  letter 
to  Edmund  Burke — anonymous — 1782.)  And  after  his 
return,  it  is  plain  that  he  soon  reverted  to  the  habits  of 
his  former  life,  and  worked  the  press  incessantly.    Mr. 


1781]  CONTRIBUTIONS  TO  THE  PRESS.  205 

Parkes  appears,  from  some  loose  materials  wliicli  he 
has  left,  to  have  intended  to  track  Francis  through  his 
underground  evolutions  at  this  period  as  thoroughly 
as  he  had  done  in  the  time  which  preceded  Junius. 
But  the  subject  has  not  the  same  interest.  The  topics 
of  controversy  which  now  called  forth  his  energy  are 
out  of  date,  and  do  not  pique  curiosity  like  those  on 
which  he  was  engaged  in  earlier  days.  I  have  judged 
it  best,  therefore,  to  pass  over  this  portion  of  his  career 
with  slight  notice.^ 

Among  the  anonymous  contributions  to  Indian  politics 
through  which  (in  all  probability)  Erancis  sought  to 
defend  his  cause,  two  are  remarkable  ;  one  of  these  is  the 
history  of  the  affairs  of  that  country  in  the  '  Intrepid 
Magazine,'  a  very  scarce  work  (one  volume  only  appeared), 
full  of  violent  attacks  on  the  sovereign,  but  in  which  the 
account  of  Indian  administration  bears  some  token  of 
his  hand.  The  other  is  a  singular  work  entitled  '  Travels 
in  Europe,  Asia,  and  America,  &c.  &c.  delineating,  in 
particular,  a  new  system  for  the  government  and  improve- 
ment of  the  British  settlements  in  the  East  Indies  ;  begun 
in  the  year  1777,  and  finished  in  1781.'  It  is  anonymous; 
but  the  author  was  given  out  to  be  one  Macintosh, 
whose  name  occurs  in  Francis's  Indian  journal.  But  it 
runs  so  minutely  into  defence  of  Francis,  and  vitupera- 
tion of  his  enemies,  especially  of  Hastings  and  Sir  Eyre 
Coote,  that  some,  acting  on  Dugald  Dalgetty's  famous 
axiom,  that  no  one  would  have  spoken  so  well  of  the 
Marquis  of  Argyll  except  his  lordship  himself,  assigned 
the  authorship  of  these  portions  of  it  to  Francis  in  person.^ 

'  Out  of  the  numerous  Indian  pampUets  of  this  time  in  which  he  may- 
have  borne  ahand,  I  refer  only  to  'A  State  of  the  British  Authority  in  Bengal 
under  the  Government  of  Mr.  Hastings,'  puhlished  by  Woodfall  in  1781, 
which  seems  to  me  to  bear — especially  in  the  preface — strong  tokens  of  the 
workmanship  of  Francis. 

"  Some  people  indeed  denied  the  existence  of  Macintosh  altogether.    But 


206  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1782 

Francis  altogether  denied  the  imputation.  He  writes  thus 
(JanuarylS,  1782)  to  his  old  colleague  Wheler,  at  Calcutta  : 
'  In  answer  to  a  thousand  lies,  which  you  will  have  heard 
about  Mr.  Macintosh,  I  declare  to  you,  most  solemnly, 
that  I  never  did  employ  or  authorise  him,  directly  or 
indirectly,  to  say  or  to  do  anything  for  me,  or  on  any 
account  in  England  ;  yet  I  approve  and  applaud  his  zeal 
in  what  he  thinks  a  good  cause.'  How  far  Francis  carried 
the  Junian  habit  of  denying  authorship  into  his  subsequent 
literary  transactions,  it  would  be  very  difficult  to  detect. 
But  Mr.  Parkes  discovered  the  following  entries  in  a  cash- 
book  among  his  private  papers  : — 

1782.  Feb.— Draft  of  Mackintosh  paid  Jan.  18,  1,078L  4s.  lOd. 
„       Dec.    6. — Paid   Mr.  Almon    (the   bookseller)    ia   full  for 
Mackintosh,  56Z.  18s.  6d. 

1783. — Paid  Almon,  account  of  Mackintosh,  56L  18s.  Od.  [perhaps 
the  same  sum  twice  entered]. 

The  same  cash-book  contains  large  advances  to  his 
cousin.  Major  Baggs,  of  the  same  date.  Baggs,  it  wiU  be 
remembered,  left  India  '  fully  instructed '  on  behalf  of 
Francis.  But  Francis,  in  his  letters,  equally  denies  having 
made  any  use  of  Baggs  as  an  agent,  and  declares  that  the 
Major  left  India  only  because  the  directors,  according  to 
the  usage  of  that  time,  were  jealous  of  his  stay  there  as 
an  interloper. 

Francis  was  all  his  life  a  great  pamphleteer :  under 
anonymous  cover  until  his  return  to  England — afterwards 
both  with  and  without  his  name.  Burke  termed  him  the 
prince  of  pamphleteers ;  and  few  certainly  have  excelled 
him  in  putting  a  strong  case  in  a  terse  and  energetic 

one  of  Captain  Price's  grotesque  pamphlets  describes  him  as  '  a  swarthy 
and  ill-looking  man  as  any  that  is  to  he  seen  on  the  Portujniese  walk  on  the 
Royal  Exchange.'  He  was  a  man  of  colour,  born  in  the  West  Indies,  and, 
according  to  Price,  a  great  impostor,  assuming  acquaintance  with  all  manner 
of  distinguished  persons. 


1782]  BOOKSELLERS'  EDITION  OF  JUNIUS.  207 

form.  In  invective  lie  vs^as  always  great.  But  he  was 
scarcely  persuasive  as  a  writer,  any  more  than  (according 
to  tradition)  as  an  orator.  There  is  too  little  of  super- 
fluous flesh  in  his  compositions,  if  the  paradox  may 
be  hazarded,  for  a  successful  party  declaimer,  or  even 
reasoner.  The  real  perplexities  of  political  affairs  are 
so  great,  there  is  so  much  to  be  said  on  one  side  as  well  as 
the  other  of  most  questions,  that  the  lumen  siecum  of  mere 
intellectual  ability  seems  to  show  too  little  of  the  ground 
on  both  sides  of  the  way.  Mere  logic,  on  subjects  not  admit- 
ting of  certainty,  convinces  only  those  who  are  prepared 
to  be  convinced,  and  even  these  generally  prefer  rhetoric. 
The  first-fruits,  however,  of  the  return  of  Francis  to 
Europe,  in  a  literary  sense,  was  the  appearance  of  the  so- 
called  '  bookseller's  edition '  of  Junius.  It  came  out 
without  the  name  of  printer  or  publisher  :  described,  on 
the  title  page,  as  '  a  more  complete  edition  than  any  yet 
pubUshed,'  London,  1783.  The  '  advertisement '  informs 
the  reader  that  '  fourteen  letters  are  added  to  this 
edition,'  that '  the  letters  signed  Philo-Junius,  were  written 
by  Junius,'  and  corrects  some  mistakes.  It  evidently 
assumes  to  be  the  production  of  the  mysterious  author 
himself.  The  corrections,  additions,  and  omissions  are 
extremely  curious,  but  to  analyse  them  thoroughly  would 
be  rather  the  work  of  an  editor  of  Junius,  than  of  a 
biographer  of  Francis.  I  subjoin  a  communication  by 
Mr.  Taylor  (the  author  of 'Junius  Identified')  to  the  editor 
of '  Notes  and  Queries,'  February  17,  1855,  in  which  the 
principal  among  them  are  stated. 

The  Dedication  is  omitted. 

The  Preface  is  omitted,  with  the  exception  of  the  concluding 
paragraph  from  De  Lolm^  which  is  headed  '  M.  De  Lolme  on  the 
Liberty  of  the  Press,'  and  begins  as  follows : 

'  Whoever  considers  what  it  is  that  constitutes,'  &c. 
This  single  page  stands  in  the  place  of  a  Preface. 


208  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1783 

Then  we  Lave  '  Contents  of  Volume  First.' 

'  Letter  I.  Political  Character  of  Englishmen  ;  Alarming  State  of 
the  Nation  ;  Plan  of  Government  since  his  present  Majesty's  Acces- 
sion ;  Characters  of  the  present  and  former  Ministers  ;  America  ; 
Summary  View  of  our  Condition. 

'  Notes :  Character  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton ;  his  conduct  to  the 
Marquis  of  Bochiugham.  Junius  and  Lord  Mansfield's  Opinion  of 
Mr.  ntt's  and  Lord  Gamden's  declamations  in  favour  of  America.' 

The  word  '  declamations '  is  a  m.istake  of  the  printer's  for  '  declara- 
tions.' There  are  many  literal  errors  in  the  book,  which  lead  us  to 
suppose  that  it  had  not  the  benefit  of  the  editor's  final  revision. 

'  Letter  IT.  Sir  William  Draper's  defence  of  the  Marquis  of  Granby. 

'Notes:  Sir  William,  Draper's  embroidered  Night-gown ;  his  healing 
Letter  from  Clifton.' 

The  Note  about  the  embroidered  night-gown  is  one  of  the  new 
notes  introduced  into  this  edition. 

The  Contents  are  carried  on  in  this  manner  to  the  eighty-sixth 
Letter,  which  contains  the  enlarged  account  of  the  author's  Letter 
concerning  the  Bill  of  Rights.  A  note  at  the  end  of  the  Contents 
of  this  Letter  again  calls  attention  to  what  is  said  of  it  in  the 
Advertisement : 

'  In  the  Author's  own  edition,  three  fourths  of  this  last  Letter 
are  omitted,  but  in  this  present  edition  all  the  omissions  are  restored 
to  their  proper  places.' 

The  same  information  is  conveyed,  for  the  third  time,  in  a  note 
appended  to  the  Title  of  the  Letter  itself. 

'  In  the  Author's  own  edition,  nearly  twelve  pages  of  the  above 
Letter  are  omitted.  In  this  edition  the  whole  extract  is  given,  as  it 
was  originally  presented  to  the  Supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Eights. 
The  passages  marked  with  inverted  commas  are  those  in  the 
Author's  edition.  The  passages  not  marked  are  the  parts  of  the 
Letter  now  again  restored  to  their  proper  places.' 

After  the  '  Contents  to  Volume  First,'  the  work  commences  with 
the  Half  Title : 

'  Letters  of  Junius,  Sfc.  ;  Letter  I.  To  the  Printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser,  21  January,  1669  :   Sir,  The  submission,'  &c. 

Thus  there  are  three  different  Titles  given  to  the  work  :  The  Letters 
of  the  celebrated  Junius ;  The  celebrated  Letters  of  Junius ;  and  The 
Jji-JIcrs  of  Junius.  These  irregularities  are  perhaps  owing  to  the 
want  of  the  editor's  last  revision. 

The  question  to  be  solved  is.  Who  was  the  editor  of  this  extra- 
ordinary work  ?     As  the  author  oi  Junius  Identified,  I  was  naturally 


1783]  BOOKSELLEKS'  EDITION  OF  JUNIUS.  209 

inclined  to  fix  on  Sir  Philip  Francis,  if  there  were  no  impediments 
in  the  way.  I  cannot  find  any.  He  went  ont  to  India  in  the 
spriag  of  1774,  and  he  arrived  ia  England  in  October,  1781.  There 
was  ample  time  for  him  to  prepare  this  edition  for  the  press,  and  to 
have  it  printed  in  the  year  1783.  Whoever  the  editor  might  be, 
it  is  very  evident  that  he  considered  himself  as  much  entitled  to 
make  free  with  the  work  as  if  he  were  the  author ;  and  who  was 
more  likely  to  have  taken  these  liberties  than  Sir  Philip  Francis .-' 
I  am  now  alluding  only  to  those  sweeping  alterations  which  I  have 
been  describing.  But  if  it  can  be  shown  that  Sir  Philip  did  actually 
make  corrections  and  emendations  in  a  copy  of  Junius,  and  that  this 
copy  belonged  to  the  same  edition  with  that  which  we  are  now  con- 
sidering, it  will  go  far,  I  think,  to  prove  that  he  was  both  the  editor 
and  the  author  of  the  work.  The  following  extract  from  a  note  by 
Mr.  Bohn,  giving  an  account  of  the  sale  of  Sir  Philip  Francis's  Hbrary, 
Feb.  3,  1838,  is  of  service  as  supplying  the  information  of  which 
we  are  in  search  : 

'  Among  the  lots  which  more  particularly  concern  the  present 
inquiry  were  several  difierent  editions  of  Junius's  Letters,  and  some 
of  the  printed  inquiries  as  to  their  authorship.  These  sold  for 
rather  high  prices,  as  the  following  quotations  will  show : 

'  416.  Junius's  Letters,  2  vols.,  with  some  MS.  corrections  of  the 
text,  and  notes  by  Sir  Philip  Francis.  In  calf  1783.  121.  12s. 
Armstrong.' 

'417.  Junius's  Letters,  with  notes  by  Heron,  2  vols.,  with  some 
MS.  notes  and  corrections  of  the  text,  by  Sir  P.  Francis.  1804. 
21.  2s.     Armstrong.' 

'  421.  Junius.  A  collection  of  the  Letters  of  Atticus,  Lucius, 
and  Junius ;  with  MS.  notes  and  corrections,  and  blanks  filled  up 
by  Sir  Philip  Francis.  1769.  And  other  tracts  in  the  volume. 
SI.  5s.     Armstrong.' 

'  These  and  most  of  the  other  annotated  books  were  bought,  under 
the  pseudonyme  of  Armstrong,  for  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis  (grandson  of 
Sir  Phihp),  then  master  of  a  Grammar  School  at  Kingston-upon-Hull, 
in  whose  possession  they  still  are.' — Wade's  J-wnius,  vol.  ii.  p.  86. 

I  have  omitted  in  the  above  list  those  books  mentioned  by  Mr. 
Bohn  which  had  no  immediate  connexion  with  our  present  subject. 

Thus,  by  another  chain  of  evidence  wholly  unlocked  for,  and 
totally  different  from  all  that  was  produced  in  Junius  Identified,  we 
are  again  led  to  the  conclusion  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  the 
author  of  Junius's  Letters. 

John  Tatloe. 

VOL.  II.  p 


210  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  PRANCIS.  [1781 

Francis  brought  with  him  to  England  a  special  remnant 
of  his  long-enduring  quarrel  with  the  East  India  Company, 
in  the  shape  of"  a  pecuniary  '  grievance.'  He  claimed  of 
that  body  his  salary  as  councillor  from  January  1,  1781 
(about  the  period  of  his  leaving  India),  to  October  18, 
1781,  when  he  arrived  in  England ;  on  the  ground, 
apparently,  that  he  remained  a  councillor  during  that 
time.  '  I  neither  resigned,'  he  says,  '  nor  was  removed.' 
It  is  difficult  to  say  under  what  category  he  classed  his 
abdication.  The  directors  may  have  had  reason  on  their 
side  in  resisting  his  claim,  but  hardly  for  their  extra- 
ordinary conduct  in  only  coming  '  to  the  unanimous 
resolution  of  not  complying  with  his  request '  on  April 
29,  1789,  eight  years  after  his  return.  Either  there  was 
some  personal  vindictiveness  concerned  in  this,  or  the 
directors  in  those  days  conducted  their  affairs  with  the 
dehberation  of  the  patriarchal  times. 

After  his  return,  Francis  continued  for  a  few  years  his 
habit  of  entering  in  his  foho  letter-books  copies  of  his 
correspondence  with  friends  in  India,  and  with  others  con- 
cerned in  Indian  affairs.  This  he  evidently  regarded  as  the 
remaining  business  of  his  life.  But  he  ceased  to  keep  any 
record  of  other  letters,  received  or  written ;  nor  did  he  keep 
any  journal,  so  far  as  is  known,  or  leave  behind  him  any 
other  contributions  to  his  autobiography.  Here,  therefore, 
though  little  more  than  midway  in  his  career  of  life,  the 
task  of  the  memoir  writer  becomes  vague  and  unsatisfac- 
tory, from  want  of  adequate  material.  I  can  do  no  more 
than  combine  the  leading  facts  of  his  pubhc  life  with  the 
scattered  '  reminiscences  '  of  Lady  Francis. 

He  returned  to  his  new  home  in  Harley  Street,  and  to 
the  society  of  his  family.  Before  his  Indian  expedition 
he  had  been,  as  we  have  seen,  a  very  domestic  man  in  his 
habits  ;  and  he  returned  to  those  habits,  disastrous  as  the 
separation  had  been,  with  every  appearance  of  content. 


1781]  FAMILY  AND  INCOME.  211 

Of  and  to  his  wife  he  speaks  in  the  terms  of  the  old  famihar 
and  playful  confidence  ;  but  her  delicate  health  and  se- 
cluded habits  evidently  made  her  no  companion  for  him  iu 
the  outer  world.  But  he  was  passionately  attached  to  his 
children  :  his  boy  now  at  Harrow,  and  who  shortly  pro- 
ceeded to  Cambridge ;  his  daughters,  or  '  younger  sisters,' 
as  he  sometimes  jocosely  calls  them,  now  growing  one  by 
one  into  womanhood,  and,  according  to  tradition,  possessing 
no  common  amount  of  beauty  and  intelligence.  Unhappily 
the  feebleness  of  constitution  which  characterised  his  family, 
and  caused  him  in  later  life  so  much  of  domestic  sorrow, 
began  very  early  to  involve  his  household  in  the  heavy 
cloud  of  constantly  recurring  anxiety.  Already  in  1786 
we  find  him  inaking  his  first  trip  to  Nice,  in  consequence 
of  apprehensions  for  one  of  his  daughters. 

He  estimates  his  income,  three  years  after  his  establish- 
ment in  England,  by  which  time  his  scattered  Indian 
property  was  all  realised,  at  upwards  of  3,U00/.  a  year, 
and  declares  that  even  with  the  '  strictest  economy,'  he 
finds  it  difiicult  to  hve  on  that  sum  in  London  according 
to  his  needs.  We  have  seen  that  a  considerable  portion 
of  this  was  acquired,  not  by  saving  from  salary,  but 
through  singular  success  at  cards.  And  when  we  compare 
this  moderate  accumulation  with  the  Indian  fortunes  of 
that  day — with  the  160,000/.,  for  instance,  which  Sir 
Thomas  Eumbold,  as  was  alleged  in  parliament,  remitted 
home  in  three  years'  government  of  Madras,  with  a  salary 
hardly  exceeding  that  of  Francis — we  are  bound  to  do 
the  latter  the  justice  of  allowing  that,  in  an  age  and 
country  of  corruption,  and  with  every  opportunity  for 
enriching  himself  at  the  expense  of  the  Indian  pubhc,  he 
preserved  his  hands  and  his  conscience  clean.^ 

^  The  only  imputation  wUcli  I  have  found  against  him  in  peouniaiy  mat- 
ters worthy  even  of  being  mentioned,  is  that  he  and  his  colleagues,  Clave- 

p  2 


212  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  [1781 

Francis,  like  many  other  patriots  of  the  indignant  turn, 
had  very  little  confidence  in  the  stabiUty  of  British  insti- 
tutions. He  interdicted  his  trustees  from  investment  in 
the  funds,  and  made  them  look  out  for  landed  security. 
He  laid  out  a  good  deal  in  mortgage  on  West  India 
estates ;  which,  it  is  to  be  feared,  proved  ultimately  a 
disadvantageous  proceeding. 

I  now  subjoin  a  few  letters  of  this  period,  chiefly 
written  to  old  friends  whom  he  had  left  in  India. 

To  Sir  John  Bay. 

London,  NoTeiuber  24,  1781. 
I  beg  you  will  teU  Lady  Day  tliat  I  took  special  care  of  her 
parcel  for  tiie  Queen,  and  brought  it  on  shore  with  me  in  a  cutter, 
in.  which  I  had  the  pleasure  of  travelling  forty  miles  in  the  dead  of 
night,  and  which  landed  me  at  last  at  Dover,  on  ■  October  19.  I 
sent  the  parcel  next  morniug,  as  directed.  Mr.  Ramus  was  at 
Windsor,  and  I  have  not  seen  him ;  but  Mrs.  Ramus  sent  me  a  very 
obliging  message.  When  I  had  the  honour  of  being  presented  to 
the  Queen,  on  the  25th  of  last  month,  I  told  her  Majesty  what  I 
had  done.  She  said  she  had  not  received  it,  but  honoured  me  with 
many  thanks,  &c.  You  must  know  I  was  told  by  everybody  that 
the  Queen  was  the  politest  woman  in  Europe  (N.B.  they  know 
nothing  of  the  politeness  of  Asia  or  St.  Helena),  and  I  declare  I 
think  so ;  at  least  it  has  not  fallen  to  my  lot  to  see  anything  com- 
parable to  the  gracefulness,  affability,  and  dignity  with  which  she 
expressed  herself  to  me  and  to  everybody.  In  addition  to  all 
which,  I  did  not  know  there  had  been  so  many  diamonds  in  the 
world  as  her  Majesty  was  covered  with.  I  had  the  honour  of  a 
most  gracious  reception  from  the  Bang  a  day  before.  They  say  it  was 
distinguished.  Having  paid  my  duty  at  St.  James's  and  my  visit 
to  my  Lord  North,  I  have  literally  sought  no  man,  except  my  own 
particular  friends.  Indeed,  there  are  very  few  people  in  town. 
The  honourable  Court  of  Directors  have  shovm  no  sign  of  hfe  ;  but 
they  know  that  I  am  alive,  and,  as  long  as  they  know  that,  I  think 
they  will  not  quarrel  with  me.  When  you  read  my  letter  to  them 
of  October    12,    1780,   you  will  not  wonder  that  they  are  not 

ring  and  Monson,  having  drawn  their  salaries  at  two  shillings  the  rupee, 
'  insisted  that  the  same  money  should  be  received  back  into  the  Treasury  for 
hills  on  the  Company  at  the  enhanced  value  of  two  shillings  and  a  penny.' 
So  says  Captain  Joseph  Price,  of  whose  pamphleteering  attacks  on  Francis — 
who,  we  Imow,  had  given  him  cause  for  enmity — we  here  take  leave. 


1781]  LETTEKS  TO  INDIA.  ^13 

passionately  fond  of  my  company.  Let  me  now  congratulate  you 
on  your  victory  over  the  supreme  Court  of  Judicature.  I  do  assure 
you  it  is  much,  more  complete  than  it  appears  to  be  even  by  the 
late  bill,  though  that  is  pretty  well.  Nundcomar  is  returned,  and, 
like  Csesar's  ghost  with  Ate  by  his  side,  is  now  raging  for  revenge. 
Depend  upon  it,  the  inquiries  in  parliament  will  not  stop  with  Sir 
Thomas  Eumbold  or  the  judges.  Tour  packets  were  sent  imme- 
diately to  Lord  Mansfield  and  Lord  Bathurst ;  but  I  have  heard 
nothing  of  them.  I  beg  you  will  present  my  best  respects  to  Lady 
Day,  and  compliments  and  best  wishes  to  your  brother.  1  am  quite 
crazy  with  receiving  and  paying  visits. 
I  am,  dear  Sir, 

Your  most  obedient  and  most  faithfal  humble  servant, 

P.  Feancis. 

Observe  that  this  letter  is  only  for  the  private  ear  of  Lady  Day 
and  yourself  (you  understood  Irish,  and  can  explain  the  expression), 
and  not  to  be  published  by  Hickey. 

Mrs.  Edmund  Burke  to  Mr.  Francis. 

December  6,  1781. 

Mrs.  Burke  presents  her  compliments  to  Mr.  Francis ;  she  would 
have  returned  him  a  thousand  thanks  for  having  made  her  as  fine 
as  an  Eastern  Queen,  but  that  she  waited  to  do  it  in  person,  which  a 
heavy  cold  has  prevented.  She  now  begs  he  will  permit  her  to  say 
that  she  is  infinitely  obliged  to  him  for  his  very  obliguig  and  kind 
remembrance  of  her. 

Charles  Street. 

To  8vr  Hiohert  Chambers,  at  Calcutta. 

London,  December  27,  1781. 

My  dear  Friend, — On  the  24th  of  last  month,  I  wrote  to  you  very 
fully  overland ;  also  to  Mr.  Hay  by  the  Trial  Paoquet ;  and  now 
again  to  Mr.  Wheler.  They  are  to  show  you  so  much  of  my  letters 
to  them  as  have  a  relation  to  your  affairs.  It  is  not  in  my  power  to 
write  more  ;  nor  could  I  add  anything  to  what  I  have  already  said. 
I  hope  it  will  arrive  in  time,  and  make  the  impression  it  ought  to 
do.  Notwithstanding  anything  Impey  may  tell  you  to  the  contrary, 
be  assured  from  me  that,  except  Mr.  Dunning,  the  Supreme  Court 
have  not  a  friend  or  approver  even  in  Westminster  Hall.  The  Chan- 
cellor will  either  give  up  or  certainly  not  defend  Impey.  He  is  a 
condemned  man.  There  is  no  power  that  either  can  or  is  inclined 
to  save  him,  from  public  disgrace  at  the  least.  The  friends  of 
Hastings  have  tried  every  artifice  to  make  it  be  beUeved  that  you 
were  imphcated  by  accepting  a  post  of  profit  in  the  police ;  but  I 


214  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1783 

have  cleared  you  completely  tip  to  tte  end  of  last  year,  and  it 
stands  rather  better  than  if  yon  had  been  so  charged.  Mr.  Wheler 
will  tell  you  the  particulars. 

If  there  be  faith  in  men,  these  inquiries  will  go  to  every  thing 
done  in  Bengal  and  at  Bombay,  as  well  as  on  the  coast ;  and  if 
there  be  justice  on  earth,  some  criminals  will  be  punished.  But, 
alas  !  will  this  or  any  other  remedy  save  the  patient  from  death  ? 
With  respect  to  your  interests,  you  may  rest  assured  that  I  will  be 
alert  in  my  attention  to  them.  But  you  must  be  aiding  and  assist- 
ing to  them  yourself.  Hyde  is  despised  in  the  same  degree  in 
which  Impey  is  execrated.  You  must  stand  clear  and  wide  of  both. 
Sir  John  Day  hangs  but  by  a  thread.  Tou  see  how  he  is  degraded 
by  the  orders  from  hence.  Many  who  censure  the  court  are  far 
from  approving  of  Ms  conduct  or  admiring  his  learning. 

I  flatter  myself  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wilton  will  give  you  a  good 
account  of  us.  As  soon  as  the  present  hurry  is  a  little  over,  we 
intend  to  be  special  neighbours  to  those  good  folks.  Mrs.  Francis 
joins  me  in  hearty  good  wishes  to  Lady  Chambers  and  you. 
Believe  me,  ever  most  faithfally  and  affectionately. 

Tours, 

P.  Feju^cis. 

I  have  printed  the  next  letter  nearly  at  length,  as  a 
specimen  of  the  peculiar  numerical  cypher  in  which 
Francis  sometimes  wrote,  and  of  which  (in  the  copies 
entered  in  his  letter-book)  he  sometimes  interlines  the 
explanation.  The  character  of  Major  Scott — the  very 
singular  agent  whom  Hastings  chose  to  represent  him  in 
the  most  critical  period  of  his  life — is  curious. 

London,  January  17,  1782. 
Dear  Ducarel,^ — ^I  have  written  to  you  by  Mr.  Dunkin,  who  went 
overland,  and  by  the  Trial  Pacquet ;  I  have  also  written  as  fally  as 
possible  to  29,  who  will  show  you  my  letters,  to  which  I  have 
nothing  to  add.  Tour  letter  of  January  6,  1781,  is  received.  64 
.57  15  26  32  63  75  56  73  9  34  84  42  7  95  46' 1  57  28  13 
37  19  115  52.  The  solid  contents  have  not  been  thrown  away. 
It  appears  to  me  impossible  that  Mr.  Hastings  can  stand  it  much 
longer ;   but  we  have  seen  the  invpossihle  happen  oftener  than  it 

Impey 
ought  to  do.       23     will  certainly  be  demolished,  and,  I  think,  with 
public  disgrace.     If  Major  Scott  be  no  better  instructed  at  the  next 
meetings  of  the  committees  than  he  was  at  the  last,  he  will  do  his 


1782]  T-EANCIS'S  CYPHER.  215 

constituent  more  harm  than  good.  Au  reste,  rien  de  plus  heureux 
que  I'arrivee  de  ce  garfon.  De  la  fa9on  dont  il  s'est  annonce 
d'abord,  il  paroissoit  tomber  des  nues  expres  pour  rendre 
temoignage  sans  replique  centre  la  conduite  de  ceux  qu'il  repre- 
sente.  A  force  d'argent,  s'il  en  est  bien  pourvu,  il  pent  parvenir ; 
pour  le  present,  tout  le  monde  s'en  moque.  II  faut  avouer  qu'il  n'est 
pas  le  premier  des  hommes,  et  encore  moins  un  second  Macleane.  II 
n'est  pas  de  ce  calibre-la.  Madam  your  mother  and  I  are  actually 
in  a  state  of  high  vigorous  correspondence.  For  want  of  better 
employment,  she  opens  her  heart  to  me ;  but  I  advise  you  not  to  let 
her  break  yours.  Tou  know  how  women  feel,  even  in  trifles,  and 
how  they  express  themselves.  At  least  I  know  it,  if  you  do  not ; 
and  therefore  seldom  regard  what  they  say.     .     .     . 

By  all  that's  extravagant,  Lacam  is  alive,  and  likely  to  exist  for 
many  years  longer.  This  fellow's  perseverance  has  made  me  believe 
firmly  in  the  immortality  of  the  body.  Tour  agent,  Touchet,  is 
very  diligent  and  capable  ;  he  has  done  wonders.  I  shall  send  you 
all  the  pamphlets  I  can  pick  up  about  Indian  aifairs.  Hastings  and 
Barwell,  or  they  who  act  for  them,  have  had  all  the  newspapers  in 
their  pay  for  a  year  past,  and  the  press  in  every  sense  at  their  com- 
mand. Tou  may  judge  how  charmingly  I  have  been  abused  ;  and 
now  that  I  am  on  the  spot  to  defend  myself  or  retaliate,  they  pro- 
fess wonderful  candour  and  moderation.     Tou  will  be  delighted  to 

read  my  examination  before  the  select  committee,  and  still  more 

Impey  and  Barwell 
that  of  Mr.  Shakespeare.  Between  us  23  &  31  are  fairly 
made  as  black  as  the  devil.  Mais  ce  qui  a  rejoui  tout  le  monde,  c'est 
ce  charmant  Monsieur  Scott,  qui  vient  tout  a  propos  pour  eclaircir 
ce  qu'il  y  avoit  encore  de  douteux  dans  I'histoire  de  ces  messieurs 
et  du  Gouvemeur- General.  Ecoutez,  mon  ami,  je  m'en  vais  vous 
consoler  comme  il  faut.  En  cas  qu'U  arrive  des  changemens  chez 
vous,  je  parie  dix  centre  un  que  vous  aurez  le  bonheur  de  posseder 

^eossaie 
un   gouvemeur  108  27    64   20  13  72  96  26  I ;  ainsi  vous  n'avez 

moi, 
qu'a  choisir.  Quant  a  119,  c'est  une  chose  decidee.  II  n'y  a 
pas  de  puissance  humaine  qui  pourroit  le  renvoyer  la-bas.  Once 
more  and  again  I  say,  take  care  of  the  money  I  left  in  that  cursed 
treasury.  Would  to  Heaven  I  had  invested  it  in  diamonds  !  The 
smaller  sort  have  sold  amazingly.  I  was  obliged  to  cut  two  of 
those  which  I  received  from  Charles  Grant  on  my  own  account, 
as  nobody  would  buy  them.  They  have  turned  out  tolerably  well. 
I  pray  you  to  take  every  opportunity  of  sending  me  a  few  muslin 
handkerchiefs,  of  the  sort  made  by  Mr.  Blaquiere  at  Santipore.  I 
shall  consider  any  man  as  my  true  friend  who  supplies  me  with  those 


216  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1782 

handkerchiefs,  and  I  want  nothing  else.  If  they  are  left  loose  among 
any  gentleman's  linen,  there  is  no  danger  of  their  being  seized. 
The  Court  of  Directors  Hastings, 

22  is  devoted  to       17,       and  I  am  in  great  hopes 

will  go  the  devil  with  him.  You  cannot  imagine  in  what  contempt 
and  abhorrence,  9  48  16  39  47  96  99  1  60  37  41  65,  that  court 
is  held. 

Mr.  SnUvan  will  be  out  of  the  Direction  next  year,  and  I  am 
grievously  mistaken  if  he  ever  gets  in  again.  The  conversation 
between  him  and  me  at  my  house,  on  November  13  last,  was  full  as 
curious  as  that  which  you  remember  to  have  happened  at  Sir  John 
Day's  on  April  6,  1779,  between  Major  Baggs  and  Sir  Eyre  Coote, 
and  much  in  the  same  style.  A  third  of  the  kind  is  not  to  be  met 
with  in  history. 

But  for  the  demolition  of  the  supreme  court  of  Judicature,  we 

Mr.  Francis 
should    have   no    consolation   in   this  transitory  life.  119 

has  powerful  and  very  professing  friends  in  all  parties.  But,  what 
is  much  better,  he  cares  not  a  farthing  for  any  of  them. 
Chambers  the  King,  Parliament,  the  Company, 

112      is  very  low  indeed.     As  for       79,  21,  12 

the  Court  of  Directors,  Lord  North, 

22  11,       120    121,  and  every  other  great  person  I  can 

think  of,  suffice  it  to  say  that  there  is  no  example  in  history  or 
experience  of  such  exalted  virtue,  nor  of  any  nation  in  so  pro- 
sperous a  situation  as  England. 

Understand  this  in  the  extremity,  and  you  may  have  a  faint  con- 
ception of  men  and  things.  I  swear  to  you  the  truth  is  incredible, 
therefore  why  should  you  believe  it  ?     Adieu. 

P.  F. 

To  conclude.  Everything  that  could  be  done  by  one  human 
creature  to  support  a  cause,  has  been  done  by  me  from  the  day  of 
my  arrival  in  England.  It  cannot  be  very  long  before  I  see  the 
final  effect  of  my  endeavours.  Even  now,  I  very  much  fear  that 
Mr.  Robinson  is  at  his  old  game  with  Sulivan,  and  that  Lord  North 
will  be  drawn  in  to  support  Hastings.  The  wind  here  shifts  every 
day.  Before  the  fleet  sails  I  shall  probably  know  the  final  determina- 
tion of  your  government.     And  so  farewell  for  the  present. 

Yours  ever, 

P.  Fkancis. 

You  are  not  to  show  my  letters  to  anybody  but  Mr.  Wheler  and 
Sir  Robert  Chambers.* 


*  Bristow,  Shee,  Livius,  and  Ducarel,  are  called  by  Hastings  'the  lees 
of  Mr.  Francis.'    Letter  to  Scott,  April  28,  1781. 


1782]  FRANCIS  AT  LORD  BARRINaXON'S.  217 

The  next  fragment  is  only  inserted  on  account  of  the 
singularly  high  character  which  it  contains  of  Thomas 
Pitt  (Lord  Camelford),  Chatham's  nephew. 

Francis  to  Wheler. 

January  18,  1782. 

It  will  give  you  pleasure  to  liear  that  Mr.  Thomas  Pitt,  to  whom 
for  many  years  I  have  had  the  warm.est  attachm.eiit,  has  lately 
spoken,  of  you  to  me  with  expressions  of  the  greatest  regard  and 
esteem.  Sin.ce  the  death  of  his  uncle  I  doubt  whether  England  can 
boast  of  so  great  a  man  as  Mr.  Pitt.  I  am  sure  there  are  few  so 
virtuous. 

To  Mrs.  Francis. 

Bocket,"  October  21,  1782. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — I  arrived  at  this  charming  place  on  Monday 
at  noon.  The  human  person  cannot  be  better  provided  for  than  it 
is  here  ;  not  even  at  Mr.  EUis's.  Here  are  Lord  and  Lady  Lincoln, 
Lord  Huntingdon,  Bishop  of  Salisbury,  Mrs.  Barrington,  and  various 
others.  Considering  the  company  I  keep,  you  must  not  wonder  if 
you  find  me  extravagantly  polite  when  I  return.  Among  other 
improvements  in  my  behaviour,  I  resist  all  manner  of  temptations 
to  go  to  sleep  after  dinner ;  or  if  I  am  not  quite  awake,  I  sleep  with 
my  eyes  open,  which  does  as  well.  I  have  just  linen  enough  to 
keep  me  clean  till  Sunday ; — I  shall  probably  lie  at  Isleworth  on 
Monday,  and  be  in  town  the  next  day.  My  compliments  to  the 
ladies. 

Tours,  yours, 

P.P. 

Edmund  Burhe  to  Francis. 

February  8,  1783. 

Dear  Sir, — I  think  to  go  out  of  town  for  a  day,  finding  myself 
faint  and  unstrung.  I  wish  to  see  you  as  early  as  you  please  for 
half  an  hour.  I  am  really  ashamed  of  the  troublesome  liberties  I 
take. 

I  am  ever  yours  sincerely, 

E.  Bdekb. 

Could  you  prevail  on  Mr.  Harwood  to  come  with  you  to  break- 
fast ?  Quarter  of  an  hour's  discourse  might  save  him  much  trouble 
in  his  examination.  He  may  come  in  his  beard,  as  he  is.  Tou  will 
once  more,  and  he  will  be  so  good  to,  excuse  the  freedom  of  this 
request.  ^ ^^^ 

'  The  seat  of  Lord  Barrington,  in  Berkshire. 


218  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1784 

The  next  letter  (to  his  wife)  notifies  a  visit  to  Spa. 
Lady  Francis,  it  will  be  remembered,  suggests  a  reason 
for  it. 

Spa,  August  19,  1783. 

My  dearest  Betsy, — I  take  ttis  to  be  Tuesday,  for  Heaven  knows 
I  have  completely  lost  my  clironology.  On  Friday  morning  I  set 
oat  for  Maestrioht,  and  thence  to  Brussels.  So  that,  barring  acci- 
dents, and  allowing  five  or  six  days  for  loitering  in  the  way,  you 
may  expect  to  see  me  about  the  7th  of  next  month.  Nothing  but 
sheer  love  and  kindness  could  carry  me  away  so  soon  ;  for  as  to  this 
place,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  being  tired  of  it.  Pray  tell  Gover- 
nor Pownal  that  I  have  never  heard  a  word  from  the  printer ;  but 
that  I  shall  certainly  call  on  him  and  on  Abbe  Mann,  and  do  all 
that  depends  on  me.  At  the  same  time  I  expect  no  good  from 
Monsieur  Flon,  who  seems  to  want  common  good  manners.  As  for 
news  and  scandal,  you  must  wait  till  you  see  me.  The  benefit  I 
have  received  from  this  residence  in  point  of  health,  spirits,  and  fat, 
is  very  distinguished  indeed,  and  forms  the  admiration  of  Spa  ! 

Tell  the  dear  girls,  my  younger  sisters,  that  I  never  can,  will, 
may,  might,  would,  could  or  should  forget  them,  and  that  I  am 
theirs  in  all  times  and  tenses,  moods  and  conjugations.  And  so, 
ma  oharmante  famille,  portez-vous  bien,  amusez-vous  bien,  et  sou- 
venez-vous  toujours  que  vous  avez  ici  votre  tres-cher  petit  papa, 
qui  prend  les  eaux,  et  qui  ne  se  meurt  pas  de  tristesse. 

Yours,  yours,  yours,  yours, 

P.P. 

A  scrap  to  his  wife  on  another  short  visit  to  Paris  may 
be  inserted  here  : — 

Paris,  September  7,  1784. 
My  dearest  Betsy, — If  you  pass  your  time  half  as  well  as  I  do, 
you  have  no  reason  to  complain.  The  weather  is  particularly  for- 
tunate, and  at  present  that's  half  the  battle.  ...  I  know  not 
what  to  add,  but  that  I  enjoy  a  brilliant  state  of  health,  and  that  a 
day  at  Paris  seems  to  consist  of  no  more  than  twelve  hours.  Judge 
then  whether  it  be  possible  for  me  to  send  you  a  homily  in  a  letter. 
Madame  de  Saint- Albia,  the  prettiest  woman  iu  England  when  she 
arrives  there,  serves  me'  for  a  messenger.  '  Comment !  une  lettre 
a  votre  femme  !  ah,  voila  du  nouveau  !  Laissez-moi  la  porter,  je 
vous  en  prie.  C'est  pour  la  premiere  fois  de  ma  vie.  Mon  cher, 
vous  etes  unique  ;  il  n'y  a  point  de  maris  comme  vous.'  So,  she 
shall  have  my  letter,  and  by  this  time  all  Prance  knows  what  a 


1784]  CONDUCT  ON  INDIAN  AFFAIRS.  219 

marvellous  husband  you  have  got.  Oh  Lord,  I  wish  I  could  carry 
the  infantry  to-night  to  a  new  play  here  called  '  Les  Noces  de 
Figaro  ' :  never  saw  the  like  in  all  my  Hfe  !  Ducarel  has  found  his 
uncle  and  aunt,  or  rather  they  have  found  him.  He  was  forced  to 
get  on  a  chair  to  put  his  arm  round  his  uncle's  neck  ;  and  he  has 
worn  my  blue  box  to  rags  to  keep  his  feet  from  dangling  in  the 
chaise.     And  so,  ma  chere  moitie,  je  vous  embrasse. 

During  these  early  years  after  Francis's  return,  he  evi- 
dently took  an  active  part  in  advising  and  informing  those 
English  politicians  who  were  busily  engaged  in  conduct- 
ing the  movement  against  Hastings  and  the  Company. 
It  is  necessary  to  give  in  a  few  words  the  summary  of 
their  proceedings,  so  as  to  throw  light  on  the  conduct  of 
Francis,  and  this  cannot  be  better  done  than  by  borrow- 
ing those  of  Macaulay  in  his  essay  on  Warren  Hastings  : 

'  Towards  the  close  of  the  American  war,  two  committees 
of  the  House  of  Commons  sat  on  Indian  affairs.  In  one 
Edmund  Burke  took  the  lead.  The  other  was  under  the 
presidency  of  Henry  Dundas,  then  Lord  Advocate  of  Scot- 
land. Great  as  are  the  changes  which  during  the  last 
sixty  years  have  taken  place  in  our  Asiatic  dominions,  the 
I'eports  which  those  committees  laid  on  the  table  of  the 
House  vnll  still  be  found  most  interesting  and  instructive. 

'  There  was  as  yet  no  connection  between  the  Company 
and  either  of  the  great  parties  in  the  State.  The  ministers 
had  no  motive  to  defend  Indian  abuses.  On  the  contrary, 
it  was  for  their  interest  to  show,  if  possible,  that  the 
government  and  patronage  of  our  oriental  empire  might 
with  advantage  be  transferred  to  themselves.  The  votes, 
therefore,  which,  in  consequence  of  the  reports  made  by 
the  two  committees,  were  passed  by  the  Commons, 
breathed  the  spirit  of  stern  and  indignant  justice.  The 
severest  epithets  were  apphed  to  several  of  the  measures 
of  Hastings,  especially  to  the  Kohilla  war,  and  it  was  re- 
solved, on  the  motion  of  Mr.  Dundas,  that  the  Company 


220  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1784 

ought  to  recall  a  Governor-general  who  had  brought  such 
calamities  on  the  Indian  people  and  such  dishonour  on 
the  British  name.  An  act  was  passed  for  limiting  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Supreme  Court.  The  bargain  which 
Hastings  had  made  with  the  Chief  Justice  was  condemned 

in  the  strongest  terms Impey  was  recalled  by  a 

letter  from  the  Secretary  of  State.  But  the  proprietors 
of  India  stock  refused  to  dismiss  Hastings  from  their  ser- 
vice, saying,  what  was  undoubtedly  true,  that  they  were 
entrusted  by  law  with  the  right  of  naming  and  removing 
their  Governor-generals,  and  that  they  were  not  bound  to 
obey  the  directions  of  a  single  branch  of  the  legislature 
with  respect  to  such  nomination  or  removal.  Thus  sup- 
ported by  his  employers,  Hastings  remained  at  the  head  of 
the  government  of  Bengal  till  the  spring  of  1785.  His 
administration,  so  eventful  and  stormy,  closed  in  almost 
perfect  quiet.' 

In  this  interval  Fox  had  introduced  his  famous  India 
Bill  of  1783,  a  measure  in  which  he  was  supported  and 
prompted  by  Burke.  It  produced  the  overthrow  of  the 
Coalition  Government.  A  new  general  election  took  place 
in  April  1784.  Francis's  early  aspirations  after  a  seat  in 
Parliament  are  already  known  to  the  reader,  and  the  care- 
ful manner  in  which,  in  1773,  he  laid  his  plans  for  ulti- 
mately attaining  one  through  the  testamentary  disposition 
of  Calcraft.  But  times  were  changed.  The  ParHamentary 
interest  of  that  distinguished  borough-holder  had  not  siir- 
vived  him.  Francis  obtained  a  seat  for  Yarmouth,  in  the 
Isle  of  Wight.  In  whose  patronage  this  little  place  then 
was  I  have  not  discovered  ;  but  from  the  complaints 
which  Francis  occasionally  makes  of  the  expense  of  his 
elections,  I  infer  that,  like  other  nabobs,  as  all  returned 
Indians  were  then  called,  his  seat  was  of  the  nature  of  a 
pocket  borough.     He  enrolled  himself  at  once  on  the 


1784]  ENTERS  THE  HOUSE  OP  COMMONS.  221 

side  of  the  opposition,  then  led  in  the  Commons  by 
Charles  Pox.  His  introduction  to  the  House  had  been 
heralded  just  before  by  the  eulogium  of  Burke,  which, 
weh  known  as  it  is,  requires  insertion  here  : 

'  On  the  other  hand,  consider  the  fate  of  those  who  have 
met  with  the  applauses  of  the  Directors.  Colonel  Monson, 
one  of  the  best  of  men,  had  his  days  shortened  by  the 
applauses,  destitute  of  the  support,  of  the  Company. 
General  Clavering,  whose  panegyric  was  made  in  every 
despatch  from  England,  whose  hearse  was  bedewed  with 
the  tears  and  hung  round  with  eulogies  of  the  Court  of 
Directors,  burst  an  honest  and  indignant  heart  at  the 
treachery  of  those  who  ruined  him  by  their  praises.  Un- 
common patience  and  temper  supported  Mr.  Francis  a 
while  longer  under  the  baneful  influence  of  the  commen- 
dation of  the  Court  of  Directors :  his  health,  however, 
gave  way  at  length,  and  in  utter  despair  he  returned  to 
Europe  ;  at  his  return  the  doors  of  the  India  House  were 
shut  to  this  man,  who  had  been  the  object  of  their  con- 
stant admiration.  He  has  indeed  escaped  with  hfe,  but 
he  has  forfeited  aU  expectation  of  credit,  consequence, 
party,  and  following.     He  may  well  say — 

'  Me  nemo  ministro 
Pur  erit,  atque  ideo  nulli  comes  exeo. 

'  This  man,  whose  deep  reach  of  thought,  whose  large 
legislative  conceptions,  and  whose  grand  plans  of  policy 
make  the  most  shining  part  of  our  reports,  from  whence 
we  have  all  learned  our  lessons,  if  we  have  learned  any 
good  ones  ;  this  man,  from  whose  materials  those  gentle- 
men who  have  least  acknowledged  it  have  yet  spoken  as 
from  a  brief ;  this  man,  driven  from  his  employment,  dis- 
countenanced by  the  Directors,  has  had  no  other  reward 
and  no  other  distinction  but  that  inward  "  sunshine  of  the 


222  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1784 

soul "  "which  a  good  conscience  can  always  bestow  on  it- 
self. He  has  not  yet  had  so  much  as  a  good  word,  but 
from  a  person  too  insignificant  to  make  any  other  return 
for  the  means  with  which  he  has  been  furnished,  for  per- 
forming his  share  of  a  duty  which  is  equally  urgent  on  us 
all.'— (On  Fox's  bill,  December  1,  1783.) 

I  insert  here,  as  bearing  on  the  events  of  this  particu- 
lar period,  one  of  several  letters  received  by  Francis 
from  a  singular  counsellor  and  intimate  friend — his  old 
schoolfellow  Eosenhagen,  the  army  chaplain,  of  whom 
more  will  be  said  presently.  It  will  be  remembered 
that  his  name  is  on  the  list  of  the  supposed  authors 
of  Junius.  At  this  time  his  convivial  talents  had  made  him 
popular,  it  is  said,  in  the  circle  of  the  young  Prince  of 
Wales.     He  seems,  however,  to  evince  Pittite  tendencies. 

January  26,  1784. 
Dear  Francis, — I  am  infinitely  obliged  to  yon  for  Mr.  Burke's 
speech.  It  would  serve  to  confirm  me  (if  I  could  waver  on  those 
points)  in  my  old  opinion  of  his  unwearied  industry,  of  the  force  of 
his  genius,  and  the  goodness  of  his  heart.  But,  with  his  permission, 
I  must  go  a  step  beyond  him.  His  collective  picture  of  Indian 
horrors  subjugates  the  understanding  as  well  as  the  feelings  ;  and, 
in  his  hands,  the  argument  a  posteriori  becomes  equivalent  to 
demonstration.  But  my  mind  has  always  carried  me  farther.  I 
have  ever  considered  the  East  Indian  Company  as  disfranchised 
beforehand,  by  the  eternal  law  of  God  and  nature,  from  the  exercise 
of  sovereign  power,  however  conveyed  by  charters  (of  which  fact  I 
doubt)  or  connived  at  by  subsequent  acts  of  Parliament.  With 
respect  to  the  latter,  let  it  be  remembered  (en  passant)  that  those 
statutes  passed  amidst  the  infamies  of  North's  administration. 
Trembling  for  his  head,  he  was  afraid  to  look  a  sound  pri/iiciple  in 
the  face  :  subsisting  by  corruption,  he  had  an  interest  in  supporting 
the  worst  effects  of  a  bad  principle.  But  to  return.  I  have  always 
been  of  opinion  that  a  corporation  composed  of  traders  of  various 
denominations,  and  instituted  merely  for  mercantile  purposes,  must 
be  a  scoundrel  from  its  very  frame.  Let  the  kings  of  France 
multiply  edicts  upon  edicts,  trade  (however  I  may  agree  with  Mr. 
Burke  as  to  the  characters  of  individual  traders)  cannot  be  honour- 


1784]  KOSENHAGEN   ON  INDIAN  AFFAIRS.  233 

able,  generally  speaking.  Here  again  you  may  '  differ  from  me 
widely.'  But  you  will  at  least  admit  tliat  the  sovereignty  of  the 
East  India  Company  dropped  upon  them  by  surprise,  and  has 
increased  to  a  degree  that  it  never  was  in  the  contemplatibn  of  any 
charter  to  admit  or  confirm.  But  these  charters  of  the  company 
certainly  gave  them  something.  Tes,  says  Mr.  Burke,  they  gave 
them  a  monopoly  ;  which  monopoly,  says  he,  though  it  affects  not 
the  form,  yet  invahdates  the  substantial  merits  of  the  charters.  I 
express  myself  hastily — I  mean  such  merits  as  would  entitle  their 
claims  to  the  description  of  'the  chartered  rights  of  man.'  After 
this  declaration,  it  is  astonishing  to  observe  that  the  only  part  of 
the  charter  which  the  bill  he  defends  leaves  untouched,  is  this  very 
monopoly — the  monopoly  of  trade,  I  mean  ;  for  the  monopoly  of 
commercial  control,  and  indeed  every  shadow  of  control,  is  abso- 
lutely removed  from  the  trader.  To  return  once  more.  These 
rights  of  sovereignty,  transferred  to  a  commission  composed  of 
members  of  Parliament  under  the  appointment  of  Parliament,  are 
not  taken  from  the  crown ;  they  are  taken  from  the  company. 
Admitted.  They  have  been  suffered,  unconstitutionally  and  fatally, 
to  remain  in  the  company,  because  a  scoundrel  administration 
(whose  cowardly  conscience  flew  in  its  face)  subsisting  solely  by 
the  influence  of  the  Crown,  was  terrified  at  the  apprehension  of  the 
outcries  which  the  assumption  of  these  rights  on  the  part  of  the 
Crown  might  have  occasioned.  By  the  constitution  of  this  country, 
they  belonged  to  the  Crown.  If  they  were  obscurely  ceded  to  the  Com- 
pany by  any  charter,  they  were  unconstitutionally  ceded.  If  the  Crown 
grows  too  powerful  for  the  constitution,  attack  it  in  form,  or  counter- 
balance its  influence  by  adding  weight  to  the  scale  of  the  people,  re- 
store the  integrity  of  the  representation  :  or,  if  you  cavil  at  the  word 
restore,  create  it.  But  I  cannot  consent  to  transfer  or  to  give 
sovereign  power  to  a  party,  most  of  whom  have  publicly  opposed, 
and  all  of  whom,  as  I  believe,  are  enemies  in  their  hearts  to,  every 
mode  of  ParKamentary  reformation.  Tou  recur  to  the  precedent  of 
1688.  I  love  that  precedent  from  my  soul.  But  before  the  whole 
of  the  precedent  will  answer  the  purpose  of  your  argument,  you 
must  convert  the  party  which  means  to  usurp  and  appropriate  to 
itself  the  casting  weight  of  Indian  influence,  into  a  National  Party, 
an  attempt  which  will  bafQe  all  your  abilities  while  the  code  of 
Rockingham  politics  remains  on  record,  and  while  these  politics 
are  melted  into  North's.  After  all,  do  manus.  When  I  review  Mr. 
Burke's  picture  of  India,  I  am  ready  to  sacriflce  every  consideration 
of  party,  and  indeed  every  object  that  entered  into  the  contemplation 
of  Guy  Fawkes,  in  order  to  make  some  compensation  to  humankind 


224  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1784 

for  tlie  horrors  that  have  been  perpetrated  there  under  the  name 
and  auspices  of  an  English  government.  I  say  compensation,  for 
reparation,  I  fear,  is  impracticable.  I  doubt  we  have  infected 
everything  that  has  come  in  contact  with  us,  and  that  the  extirpa- 
tion of  entire  and  important  classes  of  man  has  struck  at  the 
character  of  the  country.  But  to  conclude.  Admitting  all  your 
principles,  I  reprobate  the  composition  of  your  commission. 
Lewisham,  North  and  Elliot  were  born,  and  have  been  drenched 
through  life  in  the  sink  of  corruption.  Let  Heaven  take  to  itself 
poor  Fletcher  or  Gregory,  and  the  K- — ■  will  clap  in  a  man  after  his 
own  heart.  Then  what  will  become  of  your  plan  of  reformation  ? 
It  will  be  given  into  the  hands  of  men — fit  to  succeed  Lord  North. 
Tou  will  say  that  Pitt's  bill  exposes  us  to  the  same  risk  in  the 
first  instance.  I  know  nothing  of  the  principle  nor  the  provisions 
of  that  bill.  I  am  no  advocate  for  the  man  nor  for  his  present 
conduct.  I  said  in  my  last,  or  I  meant  to  say,  that  he  was  the  sole 
obstacle  in  the  way  of  a  dissolution.  I  intended  not  to  go  much 
farther :  although  I  believe  that  his  apology  for  himself,  when  it 
appears,  vsill  surprise  you.  I  abhor  secret  influence  as  much  as  any 
man,  and  I  detest  those  who  submit  to  be  the  tools  of  it.  I  think 
it  will  turn  out,  strong  as  appearances  are  against  him,  that  Pitt  is 
not  one  of  those  tools.  As  to  a  dissoluti6n,  I  persist  in  thinking  it 
would  rather  be  dangerous,  as  tending  to  confirm  dangerous  prece- 
dents, than  dangerous  in  the  instance.  With  regard  to  charters, 
doubtless  they  may  be  forfeited  by  corporate  bodies,  in  the  same 
manner  as  an  individual  may  forfeit  his  life,  or  a  king  his  crown. 
But  I  cannot  consent  that  Bradshaw  shoiild  bully,  or  Jeffries 
taunt,  or  Attorney  Lee  crack  jokes  on  such  topics. 

I  must  confess  after  all  that  I  have  little  recollection  of  the 
charter  of  the  East  India  Company,  and  I  wish  you  would  send  me 
a  copy  of  one.  Adieu.  I  dare  not  stir  out  in  this  weather,  my 
physician  absolutely  forbids  it ;  which  almost  breaks  my  heart. 

Yours, 

Ph.  R 

If  I  had  strength  to  methodise  what  I  have  said  I  should  confute 
you  to  my  own  satisfaction.  But  I  beg  of  you  not  to  believe  that 
all  I  have  said,  or  any  part  of  it,  impKes  a  predilection  for  any  party. 
The  calm  and  deliberate  result  of  my  reflections  on  this  subject  is  a 
fixed  detestation  of  all  the  parties  and  of  most  individuals  to  be 
met  with  in  this  country. 

I  receive  frequent  letters  from  A — y,  all  pressing  my  return  to 
town,  but  none  of  them  containing  anything  specific.     I  am  per- 


1784]        SPEECH  ON  APFAIES  OF  THE  COMPANY.  225 

suaded  tliat  Pitt  would  readily  promise  the  first  Ivimtg  that  should 
fall  witliia  distance  of  me.  But  I  want  a  dignity.  What  think 
you? 

Francis  seems  to  have  addressed  the  House  for  the 
first  time  on  July  2,  1784,  in  a  debate  concerning  the 
financial  affairs  of  the  East  India  Company.  In  ending 
his  speech,  he  said  that  he  wished  to  guard  himself 
against  two  sorts  of  misconstructions :  the  first,  that 
he  was  an  enemy  to  the  Company.  To  the  '  Court  of 
Directors,'  he  said,  '  I  neither  owe  nor  profess  any  grati- 
tude, although,  for  six  years  together,  they  constantly  and 
highly  approved  my  conduct.  I  owe  them  no  obhgation 
for  empty  promises  of  support  and  barren  praises,  pure 
and  unmixed,  as  I  have  always  found  them,  with  any 

serious  proof  of  their  approbation Neither  do  I 

profess  any  special  devotion  to  the  Court  of  Proprietors  : 
I  mean  to  the  power  that  has  generally  preponderated 
in  that  court.  They  have  almost  uniformly  supported 
the  persons  and  measures  which  I  have  uniformly 
opposed.  But  there  is  a  third  class  of  persons,  com- 
pletely distinct  from  the  other  two,  for  whom  I  profess 
and  feel  the  warmest  attachment :  I  mean  the  East 
India  Company,  to  whose  service  I  owe  the  independence 
which  I  possess,  and  even  the  ground  I  stand  on  at 
this  moment.'  The  second  sort  of  misrepresentation,  he 
said,  against  which  he  wished  to  be  guarded,  '  is  still 
more  of  a  personal  nature.  I  should  be  sorry  to  be 
suspected  of  retaining  a  spark  of  personal  animosity 
to  Mr.  Hastings.  We  are  both,  I  beUeve,  men  of  a 
temper  too  warm  to  be  capable  of  lasting  resentments. 
Our  contest  is  at  an  end,  and  the  hostilities  it  produced 
expired  with  it.  Assuredly  I  feel  no  enmity  to  him, 
and  I  readily  acquit  him  of  harbouring  any  against  me.' 
Assurances  which  passed,   it  may  be   feared,  only  at 

YOL.  II.  Q 


226  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1784 

their  rhetorical  worth.  It  is  singular  to  note  the  great 
master  of  the  anonymous  ending  his  maiden  speech 
by  complaining  '  of  a  letter  sent  to  me  within  these  few 
days,  signed  "Detector,"  in  which  I  am  threatened  with 
vengeance,  or  with  a  severe  inquisition  into  my  own 
offences,  if  I-  dare  say  anything  to  the  disadvantage  of 
that  great  absent  man,  Mr.  Hastings.'  A  few  days  after- 
wards he  renewed  the  subject,  in  a  very  powerful  speech 
against  Pitt's  India  Bill.  '  I  will  not,'  he  says  to  the 
House,  '  appeal  to  your  virtues,  or  suppose  that  you 
have  any.  If  you  have  common  sense,  if,  as  interested 
men,  you  understand  your  own  interest,  yoni  will  treat 
the  creatures  subject  to  your  power  with  lenity  and 
justice.' 

Another  long-speech,  against  the  same  bill  as  amended, 
followed  on  the  26th  of  the  same  month.  It  was 
on  this  occasion  that  Francis  uttered  that  eloquent 
eulogy  on  Lord  Chatham  which  has  been  so  frequently 
repeated.  'Had  such  an  attempt  been  made  when 
a  great  man,  who  is  now  no  more,  had  a  seat  in  this 
House,  he  would  have  started  from  the  bed  of  sickness, 
he  would  have  solicited  some  friendly  hand  to  deposit 
him  on  this  floor,  and  from  this  station,  with  a  monarch's 
voice,  would  have  called  the  kingdom  to  arms  to  oppose 
it.  But  he  is  dead,  and  has  left  nothing  in  this  world 
that  resembles  him.  He  is  dead,  and  the  sins,  and 
honour,  and  character,  and  understanding,  of  the  nation 
are  dead  with  him.'  This  is  the  utterance  by  which 
Francis  is  commonly  said  to  have  given  mortal  offence 
to  William  Pitt,  the  minister ;  a  report  not  very  easy 
to  believe,  unless  the  expressions  were  pointed  in  some 
special  manner  at  the  latter  so  as  to  fix  the  attention 
of  the  House  on  him.  William  Pitt  at  five- and- twenty 
could  hardly  have  attained   at   so  exalted  an   opinion 


1784]  FRANCIS  AS  A  SPEAKER.  227 

of  himself  as  to  suppose  himself  insulted  when  his 
father  was  called  incomparable.  But  the  passage  cer- 
tainly seems  to  illustrate  the  cynical  advice  once  given  by 
Francis  to  a  young  member  (according  to  an  anecdote  in 
the  Edinburgh  Eeview),  '  never  to  praise  another,  except 
in  odium  tertii.' 

It  was  not  long  afterwards,  in  a  debate  of  1787,  on 
the  commercial  treaty  with  France,  that  he  added  some 
well-known  sentences  respecting  the  great  deceased 
statesman,  which  seem  as  if  in  some  degree  intended  to 
correct  the  exuberance  of  his  former  panegyric.  '  He 
(Lord  Chatham)  descended  from  his  station  to  take 
notice  of  mine,  and  he  honoured  me  with  repeated 
marks  of  his  favour  and  protection.  How  warmly  in 
return  I  was  attached  to  his  person,  and  how  I  have  been 
grateful  to  his  memory,  they,  who  know  me,  know. 
I  admired  him,  as  a  great,  illustrious,  faulty  human 
being,  whose  character,  like  all  the  noblest  works  of 
human  composition,  should  be  determined  by  its  ex- 
cellences and  not  by  its  defects.' 

As  a  speaker,  Francis  was  unsuccessful ;  that  is  to  say, 
in  comparison  with  his  powers  as  a  vmter,  and  with 
the  high  character  which  he  has  earned  for  statesman- 
like ability.  He  wanted  fluency,  the  cardinal  virtue 
without  which  oratorical  success  is  impossible.  Accus- 
tomed only  to  the  use  of  the  pen  up  to  the  age  of  five-and- 
forty,  he  had  not  sufficient  flexibility  of  temperament  to 
acquire,  as  others  have  done  even  at  a  later  period 
of  hfe,  the  great  gift  of  parliamentary  eloquence.  His 
own  theory  on  the  subject  is  given  by  Lady  Francis 
in  her  reminiscences.  '  Here  I  may  account  for  his 
not  being  a  ready  speaker  in  Parliament,  except  when 
roused  by  indignation  or  feeling,  when  he  electrified  the 
House.    He  accounted   for  it  from  Lord  Bacon's  well- 

Q  2 


228  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1784 

known  axiom :  "  Eeading  makes  a  full  man,  ■writing 
makes  an  exact  man,  speaking  makes  a  ready  man." 
I  had  enough  and  too  much  of  the  two  former,  and 
none  of  the  latter,  in  my  youth,  A  vessel  may  be  too 
full  to  part  easily  with  its  contents,  and  few  orators  are 
very  exact  men ;  besides,  I  had  too  much  sensibility, 
and  felt  the  House  was  against  me.  The  House  was 
Pitt's,  and  Pitt  could  not  despise  me,  but  he  tried  to 
make  it  believe  he  did.'  I  have  said  in  my  preliminary 
remarks  that  his  lady  adds  another  singular  reason  for 
his  hesitation  in  speaking,  namely,  that  extreme  anxiety 
to  maintain  his  secret  made  him  weigh  every  word 
lest  it  should  convict  him  of  being  Junius. 

But  against  the  common  verdict  passed  on  his  powers 
as  a  speaker,  it  is  but  fair  to  set  the  honest  and 
enthusiastic  admiration  of  the  youthful  Windham,  who 
bestowed  on  Francis  some  share  of  the  enthusiasm  which 
led  him  to  worship  Burke. 

'  It  is  a  strong  proof,'  he  says  in  his  Diary ,^  '  on  what 
cheap  terms  reputation  for  speaking  is  acquired,  or 
how  capricious  the  world  is  in  its  allotment  of  it  to 
different  people.  There  is  not  a  speech  of  mine  which, 
in  comparison  of  one  of  Francis's,  would,  either  for 
language  or  matter,  bear  examination  for  one  moment, 
yet  about  my  performances  in  that  way  a  great  fuss 
is  made,  while  of  his  no  one  speaks  a  word.'  '  Let 
any  one,'- he  says  again,  "  remember  the  reception  and 
examine  the  language  and  matter  of  any  of  Francis's 
speeches,  and  then  say  what  the  proportion  is,  on  matters 
of  this  sort,  between  praise  and  merit.  Francis's  speeches 
are  regular  compositions,  exhibiting  in  many  parts 
great  force  of  thought,  and  conceived  throughout  in 
language  peculiarly   elegant   and   energetic.      I    know 

»  Diary,  June  1786,  and  April  1789. 


1784]  DE.  FARR  ON  FRANCIS.  229 

not  any  one  whose  speeches,  in  respect  of  clearness  and 
force  of  diction,  can  stand  in  competition  with  Francis's.' 
A  few  words  may  be  added,  on  the  same  side  of  the 
question,  from  one  who  seemed  to  be  of  opinion  that  no 
Whig  pohtician  or  orator  was  duly  launched  who  had  not 
received  a  testimonial  from  himself — Dr.  Parr  : 

'  Though  I  have  not  much  personal  acquaintance  with 
Mr.  Francis,  I  think  highly  of  his  erudition  and  taste, 
and  in  the  book  which  you  have  obligingly  sent  me 
I  have  found  him  doing  justice  to  a  very  good  cause 
by  some  very  good  speeches.  I  see  in  them  the  acuteness 
and  precision,  the  perspicuity  and  even  humorousness, 
the  rapid  marches  and  hvely  transitions  which  mark 
his  best  manner,  with  excellences  which  the  churlish 
or  fastidious  spirit  of  criticism  must  acknowledge  to 
be  well  adapted  to  a  popular  assembly.  Windham 
is  sometimes  circuitous  and  involved,  Pitt  is  diffuse 
and  dissipated,  Dundas  is  boisterous  and  coarse,  but 
Francis  is  never  obscure,  never  languid ;  I  track  the 
man  of  letters  in  every  page,  and  I  often  feel,  keenly 
indeed,  but  agreeably,  the  peculiarities  of  his  temper. 
You  will  understand  the  whole  of  my  meaning  when 
I  say  that  what  in  his  conversation  seems  restlessness, 
is,  in  his  speeches,  exalted  into  animation.  Whether 
or  not  your  numbers  be  thinned,  I  cannot  tell,  but 
your  phalanx,  in  my  mind,  loses  much  of  its  strength 
and  its  splendour  when  such  steady  auxiliaries  as  Francis 
and  Honey  wood  are  driven  out  of  the  ranks. '^ 
Both  were  no  doubt  in  the  right,  from  their  respective 

'  Of  all  men  who  have  obtained  a  reputation  as  critics,  Dr.  Parr  was  surely 
endowed  with  the  smallest  amount  of  tact  and  perception.  The  following 
are  reasons  which  he  gives  for  believing  that  Francis  did  not  write  Junius. 
'Francis  never  writes  anything  but  English,  and  there  is  gallicism  in 
Junius.  Francis  is  furious,  but  not  malevolent.  Francis  is  never  cool, 
and  Junius  is  seldom  ardent.'     (Letter  quoted  in  Barker,  p.  242.) 


230  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1784 

points  of  view ;  the  detractors  and  the  admirers.  Francis's 
printed  speeches  (which  he  was  very  much  in  the 
habit  of  pubhshing  in  the  form  of  pamphlets)  give  a 
pretty  accurate  idea  of  the  reason  why,  with  all  their 
merit,  they  failed  to  captivate  the  House  of  Commons. 
They  were  no  doubt  singularly  masculine  and  '  sinewy ' 
in  their  fabric ;  '  there  was  no  gummy  flesh  about  them,' 
says  one  of  his  panegyrists.  But  when  they  were 
not  strictly  and  closely  business-like,  they  were  generally 
didactic.  He  laid  down  proposition  after  proposition 
with  the  air  of  a  professor  accumulating  a  sorites.  If 
the  House  would  not  endure  this  kind  of  generalisation 
in  Burke — as  we  know  it  would  not — it  was  still  less 
likely  to  do  so  in  the  case  of  Francis,  who  had  much  of 
the  discursive  mind  and  tendency  to  analogical  argument 
of  Burke,  but  without  the  richness  of  his  genius.  The 
general  cast  of  his  eloquence,  moreover,  as  of  his  mind, 
was  sternly  incisive ;  the  background  of  his  oratory 
usually  sombre  and  severe,  and  only  reheved,  if  at  all, 
by  lurid  flashes  of  tempestuous  invective. 

Perhaps  an  adequate  specimen  of  Francis's  pecuhar 
manner,  when  disengaged  from  personahty,  will  be  found 
in  passages  from  a  speech  which  he  delivered  in  1787  on 
the  subject  of  Pitt's  commercial  treaty  with  France.  It 
wiU  be  remembered  that  this  measure  was  violently 
opposed  by  the  Foxites  ;  and  it  may  be  supposed  that 
party  connexion  went  a  long  way  in  dictating  to  the 
leading  Whigs,  the  champions  of  enlightenment,  the 
tone  of  strong  national  and  anti-Gallican  prejudice 
which  they  adopted  on  this  occasion.  Unless  I  am 
mistaken,  this  speech  exhibits  as  much  of  the  peculiar 
Junian  vein  of  epigrammatic  generahsation  as  any  of 
his  performances : 

'  But  we  are  told  that  one  merit  of  the  present  measure 


1784]  COMMERCIAL  TREATY  WITH  FRANCE.  231 

is  that  it  militates  against  many  ancient  prejudices. 
Now,  supposing  that  the  opinions  in  question  really 
did  deserve  the  name,  is  it  clear  that  it  would  therefore 
be  sale  or  prudent  to  eradicate  such  opinions?  The 
judgment  of  a  nation  appears  in  its  proverbs ;  the  virtues 
and  probably  the  vices  of  a  nation  appear  in  its  prejudices. 
To  cure  a  whole  people  of  their  prejudices  is  to  efface 
their  distinct  character.  There  is  no  such  thing  in 
existence  as  a  moral  or  immoral  nation.  The  national 
mind  is  formed  by  circumstances  external  to  it,  not  upon 
the  internal  principles.  The  French  and  English,  we 
say,  are  natural  enemies :  not  because  there  is  any 
natural  antipathy  between  them  ;  on  the  contrary,  no 
people  agree  better  in  private  life.  It  is  their  relative 
position,  their  vicinity  to  each  other  that  furnish  a 
perpetual  source  of  dispute,  that  make  them  rivals 
in  peace  as  well  as  enemies  in  war.  Nations  which 
border  on  each  other  never  can  thoroughly  agree : 
for  this  single  reason,  because  they  are  neighbours.  ... 
With  respect  to  the  French,  if  peace  can  be  preserved 
between  us  on  terms  of  honour  and  security  to  England, 
who  is  there  so  mad  or  wicked  as  to  refuse  it?  But 
take  care  that  the  peace  be  armed.  As  to  an  alliance  or 
intimate  union  between  the  cabinets  of  an  absolute  and  a 
limited  monarchy,  it  is  not  antipathy,  it  is  not  prejudice, 
it  is  the  pohcy,  it  is  the  wisdom,  it  is  the  experience 
of  England  which  ever  have  and  for  ever  should  deter  us 
from  accepting  it.  I  need  not  look  back  to  the  days  of 
Agincourt  and  Cressy ;  for  neither  could  causes  so  remote 
have  operated  so  long,  nor  is  a  battle  between  hostile 
nations,  any  more  than  a  duel  between  individuals,  a 
motive  for  hating  each  other.  The  battle  and  the  duel 
act  as  a  crisis  which  kills  the  parties  or  cures  the  disease. 
It  has  been  the   dehberate  poUcy,  not  the  passion,  of 


232  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1785 

England,  in  all  times  but  those  of  the  House  of  Stuart, 
to  prefer  the  friendship  of  any  distant  nation  to  that 

of  Prance If  the  present  patience  of  the  Houso 

would  permit  me '   (he  concludes   rather  significantly), 
'  it  would  be  superfluous  to  say  more.' 

In  1785  Hastings  returned  from  India.  The  following 
letters  from  Francis — the  first  to  Wheler,  of  whose 
decease,  which  had  taken  place,  he  had  not  heard, 
the  second  to  Eichard  Tilghman,  who  had  gone  back  to 
Calcutta,  where  he  died  in  1787 — show  with  what  interest 
Francis  up  to  that  time  continued  to  regard  the  course  of 
affairs  in  Bengal. 

London,  January  12,  1785. 
Dear  Sir, — Since  I  ■wrote  to  you  by  the  Fox  pacquet,  -wtich 
carried  out  General  Sloper,  I  have  seen  no  reason  to  depart  from  the 
ideas  which  I  then  threw  out  to  you  in  that  letter.  The  contest 
between  George  Yansittart  and  Ralph  Leycester,  for  the  succession 
to  Mr.  Hastings,  if  it  ever  was  serious,  has  not  been  revived,  and 
we  have  heard  no  more  of  either  of  them.  The  oifice  is  not  consi- 
dered as  vacant,  or  likely  to  be  so.  Mr.  Hastings  seems  to  have  no 
thoughts  of  resigning  ;  for  though  in  February  last,  when  he  set  out 
for  Lucknow,  he  wrote  to  the  directors  in  a  very  desponding  style,  he 
seems  to  have  recovered  his  spirits  when  he  arrived  there,  and,  as 
usual,  promises  to  do  wonders  if  he  be  continued  in  the  government. 
How  wonderfully  his  language  is  altered  about  his  Majesty  Shah 
Allum  !  I  strongly  suspect  that  he  has  some  new  mischief  in  his 
head,  and  that  ere  it  be  long,  we  shall  hear  of  an  expedition  to 
Delhi  or  Bundelcund.     It  is  not  in  his  nature  to  be  quiet. 

There  is  a  rumour  here,  for  the  truth  of  which  I  would  by  no 
means  answer,  that  an  accommodation  is  on  foot  between  the  ministry 
and  Lord  Bute,  of  which  one  of  the  conditions  is  the  appointment  of 
Lord  Macartney  to  succeed  to  Bengal.  But  if  you  could  prevail  on 
Hastings  to  resign,  you  might  hold  the  government  a  year  or  two 
before  any  appointment  from  hence  could  supersede  you.  I  should 
look  on  that  event  as  the  salvation  of  India,  for  I  know  you  will  do 
right. 

Poor  Tilghman  is  to  deliver  you  this  letter.  It  vrill  be  a  great 
happiness  to  him  to  see  you  once  more,  and  he  will  communicate  to 
you  everything  that  I  know  or  think  about  the  state  of  affairs.  I 
pray  you,  my  friend,  to  serve  him  if  you  can.     I  have  no  other 


1785]  DEATH  OF  WHELER.  233 

object  now  in  life  very  deeply  at  heart.  He  will  tell  yon  himself 
how  cruelly  and  unjustly  the  directors  have  treated  him.  But  I 
hope  it  will  make  no  great  difference  for  the  present,  and  that 
things  will  come  abont  again.  If  either  my  present  situation  in 
Parliament,  or  any  other  that  I  may  hereafter  be  placed  in,  can  be 
made  useful  to  your  service,  I  desire  yon  to  consider  me  as  at  all 
times  at  your  disposal.  Indian  affairs  cannot  stand  as  they  are ;  and 
while  they  are  canvassed  at  all,  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  avoid 
taking  a  principal  share  in  them. 

I  have  been  and  always  shall  be  your  friend  and  advocate  to  the 
utmost  of  my  ability. 

I  have  it  from  good  authority  that  Mr.  Pitt  is  to  bring  in  another 
bill  to  amend  the  last,  and  that  the  operations  of  the  Board  of  Con- 
trol over  the  directors,  particularly  in  the  arrangement  of  the 
Nabob  of  Arcot's  debts,  are  to  be  strictly  canvassed.  They  all  begin 
to  perceive  and  come  to  acknowledge  that  a  double  government 
cannot  govern.  The  directors  now  are  compelled  to  sign  letters 
written  for  them  by  others,  and  directly  opposite  to  their  own  senti- 
ments. 

Sir  E.  Impey  is  preparing  to  return  ;  but  I  think  there  will  be  a 
grievous  question  on  that  motion.  Our  funds  are  extremely  low, 
and  a  war  on  the  continent  is  thought  to  be  unavoidable.  I  hope 
you  will  be  able  to  keep  peace  in  India. 

With  my  best  wishes  to  Mrs.  Wheler,  I  am  ever  faithfully  and 
affectionately, 

Tours, 

Edward  Wheler,  Esq.  P.  PeANCIS. 

Take  care  to  seal  the  enclosed  letters  before  you  deliver  them  ;  and 
so,  farewell. 

The  letter  was  found  enclosed  in  a  paper  containing 
the  following  endorsement  in  Mr.  Francis's  handwriting : 

April  14,  1785. 
Dear  Tilghman, — I  am  just  come  from  dinner  at  my  neighbour 
Mr.  Bevau's,  where  I  have  heard  that  the  Button's  pacquet  goes 
to  Portsmouth  this  night,  so  I  take  the  chance  of  a  letter  by  the 
post  to  tell  you  that  we  have  just  heard  of  Mr.  Wheler's  death  by  a 
letter  overland  from  Mr.  Hastiugs.  I  lament  his  loss  for  his  own 
sake,  and  I  feel  it  very  sensibly  for  yours.  However,  keep  up  your 
spirits.  Tou  know  there  are  people  here  who  will  stand  by  you  in 
all  extremities.  If  ever  there  be  a  change,  all  the  interest  I  may 
gain  by  it  shall  be  exerted  for  you.     If  you  keep  your  health,  I  have 


234  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1785 

no  doubt  of  your  success.     If  not,  come  away  directly.     Better  live 
anywhere  than  die  in  Bengal. 

The  House  list  has  carried  it.  Major  Scott  is  thrown  out,  and  I 
am  assured  never  can  have  the  smallest  chance  again.  Tou  will 
certainly  find  Mr.  H.  in  Bengal.  But  I  conclude  he  will  not  stay 
when  he  hears  of  Lord  Macartney's  appointment. 

This  country  is  iu  a  flame  against  Mr.  Pitt's  plan  of  commercial 
settlement  with  Ireland,  and  I  think  he  is  in  a  fair  way  to  be  as  un- 
popular as  ever  Fox  was. 

All  your  friends  ia  this  town  are  well.  Tour  brother  is  a  great 
prince.  The  Reform  is  to  come  on  next  Monday ;  but  I  understand 
it  is  to  be  thrown  out  with  disgrace. 

Tours  always, 

P.P. 

Tou  know  the  directors  have  reinstated  you  in  your  rank  in  their 

service. 

London,  June  8,  1785. 

My  dear  Tilghman, — If  I  have  anything  material  to  say  to  you 
which  at  present  does  not  occur  to  me,  I  must  reserve  it  for  the  first 
ship  of  the  ensuing  season,  for  God  knows  how  or  when  this  may 
reach  you.  I  have  recommended  you  to  Lord  Macartney,  through. 
Mr.  Staunton,  iu  a  way  which  he  assures  me  will  be  effectual,  at 
least  to  secure  his  goodwill  to  you.  Tou  must  cultivate  (.sic)  with 
Mr.  Staunton,  who,  on  his  part,  promises  everything  I  could  ask. 
Major  Scott  tells  me  he  expects  Mr.  Hastings  home  in  a  month  or- 
six  weeks.  He  says,  too,  that  it  was  reported  at  the  Cape  that 
Lord  Macartney  was  preparing  to  come  to  England,  but  I  do  not 
give  implicit  credit  to  either  of  these  stories.  In  a  few  days  I  set 
out  for  Paris,  perfectly  weary  of  Parliament.  Tell  Bristow  that  I 
have  received  all  his  papers  and  studied  .them,  but  have  had  no 
opportunity  to  write  since  they  arrived.  I  do  not  think  that  his 
business  will  be  taken  up  here  at  all.  It  will  depend  wholly  on 
Lord  Macartney  to  do  him  justice.  If  any  question  arises  I  shall  do 
my  part.     All  here  are  well. 

Tours  ever. 

Pray  tell  Sir  John  Day  that  I  shall  answer  his  letter  by  the  first 
opportunity.  If  he  has  really  been  obliged  to  refund,  I  shall  think 
his  case  singular. 

The  last  years  of  the  administration  of  Hastings  had 

been  triumphant.     He  came  to  find  the  authorities  of  the 

India  House  prepared  to  receive  him  with  open  arms ; 

the  king  recovered  from  that  inclination  towards  Indian 


1785]  ,  PITT   A.ND  HASTINGS.  285 

reform  which  had  infected  him  at  an  early  period  of  his 
reign,  and  disposed,  through  hatred  of  Fox  and  the 
opposition  in  general,  to  look  favourably  on  any  one  who 
was  the  object  of  their  invective ;  society,  in  England, 
ready,  by  a  great  majority,  to  worship  the  conqueror, 
and  to  condone,  or  overlook,  the  offences  through  which' 
he  had  achieved  his  victories.  But  Pitt  was  cold  and 
doubtful.  He  is  reported  to  have  set  himself  absolutely 
against  the  proposal  to  raise  Hastings  to  the  peerage  on 
his  return.  And  while  the  disposition  of  the  great  chief 
was  thus  uncertain,  a  band  of  the  ablest  debaters  in  the 
House  were  preparing  to  attack  him  with  all  the  vigour 
and  determination  of  politicians  who  believe  themselves 
to  have  at  once  a  just  cause,  and  one  which,  if  success- 
fully maintained,  is  likely  to  raise  their  party  and  establish 
their  own  reputation.  Erancis  was  the  soul  of  this 
combination.  It  was  he  who  furnished  fresh  and  fresh, 
from  the  stores  of  his  Indian  memory  and  his  implacable 
spirit,  the  accusations  which  were  accumulating  around 
the  head  of  the  devoted  governor-general. 

'  The  charges  brought  forward  by  Mr.  Burke  against 
Mr.  Hastings  were  on  those  subjects  which  had  been 
matter  of  discussion  between  Mr.  Francis  and  Mr.  Hastings, 
while  the  former  gentleman  was  in  India ;  the  impeach- 
ment of  Mr.  Hastings  was  a  continuation  of  Mr.  Francis's 
opposition  to  Mr.  Hastings's  government.  I  believe  I  am 
correct  in  this  statement.  All  the  materials  for  the 
twenty-two  charges  brought  forward  by  Mr.  Burke 
were  furnished  by  Mr.  Francis;  and  Mr.  Burke  had 
sufficient  influence  to  prevail  on  Mr.  Fox  to  support  the 
charges  with  the  whole  strength  of  opposition.  Mr. 
Francis  was  a  man  of  considerable  abilities.  He  was  a 
very  superior  classical  scholar,  and  he  was  capable  of 
laborious  application.     Strong  resentment  was  a  leading 


236  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRAJ^CIS.  [1786 

feature  in  his  character.  I  have  heard  him  avow  this 
sentiment  more  openly  and  more  expUcitly  than  I  ever 
heard  any  other  man  avow  it  in  the  whole  course  of  my 
life.'i 

'  Of  aU  Hastings's  enemies,'  says  another  contemporary, 
'  Francis  might  be  justly  deemed  the  most  inveterate  and 
implacable.  He  was  likewise  the  most  formidable,  not 
only  from  his  local  knowledge  obtained  while  on  the 
spot,  but  from  the  composition  of  his  mind.  Unlike 
Burke,  Francis's  hatred,  cool,  sagacious,  and  controlled  by 
his  judgment,  enabled  him  to  direct  his  weapon  with 
malignant  skill.  Burke's  rancour  exhausted  itself  in  a 
torrent  of  invective,  always  decorated  with  classic  allu- 
sions, frequently  illustrated  by  wit  and  humour.  Francis, 
like  Junius,  tore  his  victim  with  deliberate,  scientific 
ability,  was  rarely  carried  away  by  passion,  preserved  his 
enmity  ever  fresh,  laboured  with  unceasing  perseverance, 
and  made  his  hostility  felt  by  deeds  stiU  more  than  by 
words.    Such  was  the  different  formation  of  the  two  men.'  ^ 

'  To  Hastings,'  says  the  writer  in  the  '  Calcutta  Eeview ' 
already  so  often  quoted, '  everything  was  new  and  strange : 
he  stood  alone  and  unpractised  to  contend  against  a 
number  of  expert  assailants.  When  he  called  in  an  ally, 
he  made  the  great  mistake  of  his  life.  What  he 
required  as  an  associate,  was  a  skilful  tactician,  of  elo- 
quent address,  of  rapid  execution,  one  admirably  cunning 
of  fence,  versed  in  all  the  ways  of  parliamentary  warfare, 
and  enjoying  the  reputation  of  a  gifted  and  high-minded 
man.  Instead  of  this,  he  called  in  a  lumbering  block- 
head whose  only  weight  was  the  weight  of  his  own 
stohdity,  who  blundered  and  prosed,  wrote  long  letters 
in  the  papers,  and  made  dull  speeches  in  the  House ;  who 

1  NichoU's  '  Recollections  and  Reflections,'  i,  280, 
»  Wr.ixall,  Memoirs,  ii.  260, 


1786]  MAJOR  SCOTT.  237 

was  sometimes  abusive  without  point  and  energetic 
without  impressiveness  ;  who  occasionally  stumbled  upon 
a  happy  thought  by  chance,  but  did  not  know  what  to 
do  with  it ;  who  wearied  the  House  without  serving  his 
master,  and  did  all  that  human  dulness  could  do  to  show  how 
deplorably  Hastings  had  committed  himself  by  selecting 
so  very  obtuse  a  personage  for  the  performance  of  so 
delicate  a  duty.  Against  the  eloquence  of  Burke,  the 
legal  acuteness  of  Lawrence,  and  the  untiring  energy  of 
Philip  Francis,  Hastings  set  up  the  profound  stupidity  of 
Major  Scott.' 

For  a  long  time,  however,  the  prospects  of  the  framers 
of  '  articles  of  impeachment '  were  far  from  bright. 
Although  Pitt  took  up  the  cause  of  Hastings  with  no 
warmth,  yet  he  did  espouse  it ;  compact  majorities  ac- 
cordingly negatived  several  articles,  and  some  of  the 
boldest  Indian  reformers  of  former  years,  such  as  Dundas, 
contrived  to  accommodate  their  new  zeal  in  favour  of 
Hastings  with  their  old  creed.  So  things  went  on,  until 
the  extraordinary  change  of  resolution  on  the  part  of  Pitt, 
which  declared  itself  on  the  so-called  '  Benares  Charge  ' 
(in  June,  1786),  entirely  altered  the  aspect  of  the  game. 
It  remains  to  this  day  one  of  the  most  unaccountable 
passages  in  the  career  of  the  great  statesman  that  he, 
who  had  passed  over  in  silence,  and  allowed  his  followers 
to  defend,  what  Mr.  Massey  too  truly  terms  in  his  History 
(ch.  29)  '  the  transcendant  infamy  of  the  Eohilla  War, 
which  casts  a  shade  over  the  many  other  iniquities  of 
Hastings,  glaring  as  they  were,'  should  have  taken  his 
stand  on  the  far  less  profligate  Benares  affair,  and  that 
only  as  to  a  comparatively  unimportant  point,  for  Pitt 
only  maintained  that  a  fine  inflicted  by  Hastings  on 
Cheyt  Singh  was  exorbitant  in  amount,  not  that  it  was 
unjust.    It  is  in  truth  one  of  the  unexplained  mysteries  in 


238  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1787 

the  history  of  English  political  warfare.  But  the  solution 
most  honourable  to  Pitt  was  probably  the  true  one. 
He  was  reluctant  to  separate  himself  from  the  party  of  the 
Court  and  of  the  India  House,  and  to  aid  in  the  designs  of 
his  own  personal  enemies.  But  a  strong  sense  of  the  real 
gravity  of  the  case  against  Hastings  grew  in  his  mind  as 
the  accusation  proceeded ;  and  he  changed  his  ground,  as 
men  who  have  long  reluctantly  taken  the  worse  part  are 
apt  to  do  at  last,  on  an  occasion  which  hardly  justified  the 
move. 

The  tide  now  turned  against  Hastings.  The  minorities 
of  his  assailants  were  turned  into  triumphant  majorities. 
Charge  after  charge  was  adopted,  and  finally  the  great 
measure  of  impeachment  was  resolved  on.  But  when  the 
list  of  managers  of  the  impeachment  was  under  debate, 
the  name  of  Francis  was  excluded  (April  1787)  by  a 
majority  of  96  to  44.  Burke  endeavoured,  in  vain,  to 
procure  this  vote  to  be  rescinded.  It  was  confirmed,  in 
December  of  the  same  year,  by  a  majority  of  97  against  23. 

If  Francis  had  been  personally  more  successful  in  the 
House,  less  haughty  and  supercilious  in  private  life — for 
such  was  the  character  he  had  by  this  time  earned— the 
result  might  perhaps  have  been  difierent.  The  reason 
given  in  debate,  however,  was  his  personal  hostility  to 
Hastings.  The  propriety  of  the  resolution  was  much 
debated  then  and  since.  It  deprived  the  impeachment  of 
its  best-informed  supporter.  Many  were  disposed  to  say 
(with  Mr.  Storer,  Lord  Auckland's  correspondent,  Dec.  5, 
1787),  that  this  hostiHty  'would  be  a  bar  to  his  being 
a  judge,  but  is  in  fact  rather  a  recommendation  for  a 
prosecutor.'  But  others  looked  more  to  the  substance 
than  the  technical  view,  and  deemed  that  the  House  of 
Commons,  in  so  solemn  an  act  of  prosecution,  ought  not 
to  avail  itself  of  the  services  of  a  private  enemy  of  the 


1787]     EXCLUSION  FROM  CONDUCT  OF  IMPEACHMENT.     239 

defendant.  On  this  point,  the  observations  of  Lord 
Brougham  ('  Statesmen  of  the  Eeign  of  George  III.')  are 
full  of  weight. 

Francis  vindicated  his  character  from  the  charges  thus 
brought  against  it  in  some  able  speeches.  He  '  took  this 
occasion  (April  19,  1787)  of  vindicating  his  character 
against  certain  malicious  injunctions  which  had  been 
industriously  circulated,  both  within  and  without  the 
House,  and  to  the  effects  of  which  he  attributed  the 
rejection  of  his  name  in  the  appointment  of  the  committee 
the  day  before.  It  had  been  intimated,  he  said,  that 
through  the  whole  of  his  conduct  in  the  prosecution  of 
Mr.  Hastings  he  had  been  actuated  by  private  personal 
motives  of  hostility  and  hatred.  In  justification  of  himself 
therefore,  he  should  beg  to  state  to  the  committee  the 
origin  and  ground  of  that  hostility.'  He  and  his  col- 
leagues, he  declared,  had  left  England  with  the  highest 
opinion  of  Mr.  Hastings.  When  they  landed  at  Calcutta, 
*  they  soon  found  their  error :  it  was  upon  public  grounds, 
as  all  who  were  acquainted  with  the  transactions  of  India 
well  knew,  that  their  opposition  to  Mr.  Hastings  com- 
menced, and  that  his  had  continued  to  the  present 
moment.'  As  to  the  duel,  he  declared  that  '  the  difference 
between  them  was  not  private,  but  public,  on  the  ground 
of  Mr.  Hastings's  injurious  minute.' 

Unfortunately  no  one  can  have  studied  the  materials 
afforded  by  Francis's  private  memoranda  and  entertain 
the  behef  that  'he  held  the  highest  opinion  of  Mr.  Hastings 
until  he  landed  at  Calcutta.'  He  seems  to  have  left  Eng- 
land prejudiced  against  him.  All  that  can  truly  be  said 
for  him — and  it  is  much — is  that  his  vindictiveness  against 
Hastings,  although  it  ripened  into  the  bitterest  of  personal 
quarrels,  originated,  hke  most  of  his  pohtical  feelings, 
in   what  was   high-minded   and    noble.      He  believed 


240  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1787 

Hastings  to  be  an  arbitrary,  unscrupulous  ruler  and  an 
oppressor.  And  if  Hastings  was  not  so,  a  chapter  in 
Anglo-Indian  history  must  be  rewritten.  The  set-off 
against  these  weighty  charges  may  itself  be  weighty; 
but  the  charges  remain  the  same. 

The  following  paper  (which  Francis  would  seem  to 
have  printed  and  circulated)  may  properly  be  inserted 
here.     It  is  noticed  in  Mr.  Parkes's  preface. 

'  I  would  do  much,  sir,  at  this  time,  and  in  a  cause  in 
which  I  am  not  ashamed  to  own  it,  to  court  the  favour  of 
this  assembly  and  of  power ;  but  I  wiU  not,  even  in  these 
circumstances,  refrain  from  saying  that  the  disposition  of 
this  House,  and  of  those  who  have  much  weight  in  this 
place  and  much  authority  in  this  country,  towards  the 
honourable  gentleman^  I  have  alluded  to,  does  no  credit 
to  the  House,  to  government,  or  to  any  individual  to 
whom  the  observation  can  apply.  It  but  ill  evinces  any 
just  or  sound  view  of  the  principles  on  which  public  men 
are  to  be  countenanced  and  supported,  to  see  every 
consideration  which  should  give  splendour  to  a  character, 
which  should  excite  admiration,  command  applause, 
honour,  and  reward,  which  should  draw  the  grateful 
thanks  and  bind  the  hearts  of  his  country  and  mankind, 
all  yield,  and  fall  before  the  most  unfounded,  the  most 
petty  and  capricious  prejudices,  prejudices  the  most 
entirely  personal  and  the  least  connected  with  any 
manly,  rational,  or  honourable  estimate  of  character,  that 
ever  disgraced  the  wayward  choice  or  antipathies  even  of 
children.  Sir,  I  do  not  hope  to  correct  the  vice  I  am 
lamenting,  but  I  have  a  right  to  speak  my  mind  of  it ; 
and,  inconsiderable  as  I  am,  I  know  that  the  justice  of  this 
rebuke  will  give  it  weight.  Another  cause  for  my  concern 
at  this  disposition  of  the  House  towards  my  honourable 

'  Mr.  Francis. 


1787]  ELLIOT  ON  FRANCIS.  241 

friend  is,  that  it  is  a  heavy  discouragement  to  the  hopes  of 
reform  and  of  benefit  to  India  that  we  should  yet  be  so 
far  removed  from  the  sound  and  efficient  principle  of  that 
reform,  which  I  have  endeavoured  to  show,  on  another 
occasion,  consists  above  all  in  a  just  discrimination 
between  merit  and  misconduct,  and  in  a  steady  dis- 
tribution at  home  of  honour  and  reward  to  those  who 
have  done  their  duty  abroad,  as  of  disgrace  and 
punishment  to  the  disobedience  and  crimes  of  others. 
If  the  members  of  this  House  be  indeed  so  little  read 
in  their  duties,  or  be  prepared  to  sacrifice  their  most 
sacred  obligations  to  partialities  which,  although  still, 
I  fear,  at  the  bottom  of  their  hearts,  are  such  as  they  are 
justly  ashamed  to  avow,  all  I  can  say  is,  that,  for 
one,  I  am  determined  here,  in  the  very  seat  and  centre 
of  what  I  think  this  criminal  disposition,  to  withdraw 
myself  at  least  from  all  suspicion  of*partaking  in  its  guilt. 
In  delivering  my  opinion  of  my  honourable  friend,  I  am 
not  so  madly  vain  as  to  think  it  can  add  anything  to  his 
honours ;  it  is  not  for  him,  sir,  it  is  to  do  myself  honour 
that  I  say  here,  what  I  have  often  said  elsewhere,  that  of 
all  the  great  and  considerable  men  whom  this  country 
possesses,  there  is  not  one  in  the  empire  who  has  a  claim 
so  much  beyond  all  question,  who  can  show  a  title  so 
thoroughly  authenticated,  as  this  gentleman,  to  the 
admiration,  the  thanks,  the  reward,  the  love  of  his  country 
and  of  the  world.  If  I  am  asked  for  proof,  I  say,  the 
book  of  his  hfe  is  open  before  you  ;  it  has  been  read,  it 
has  been  examined  in  every  line,  by  the  diligent  in- 
quisition, the  searching  eye  of  malice  and  envy.  Has  a 
single  blot  been  found  ?  Is  there  one  page  which  has  not 
been  traced  by  virtue  and  by  wisdom  ?  Virtue,  sir,  not  of 
the  cold  and  neutral  quahty  which  is  contented  to  avoid 

VOL.  11.  R 


242  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1787 

reproach  by  shrinking  from  action,  and  is  the  best  ally 
of  vice,  but  virtue  fervent,  full  of  ardour,  of  energy, 
of  effect ;  wisdom,  sir,  not  the  mere  flash  of  genius  and 
of  talents,  though  these  are  not  wanting,  but  wisdom 
informed,  deliberate,  and  profound.  I  know,  sir,  the 
warmth  imputed  to,  nay  possessed  by  that  character ; 
it  is  a  warmth  which  does  but  burnish  all  his  other 
virtues.  His  heart  is  warm,  his  judgment  is  cool, 
and  the  latter  of  these  features  none  will  deny,  except 
those  who  have  not  examined,  or  wish  to  disbelieve  it.'^ 

'  Thirteen  years  '  (Francis  said  in  the  debate  of  Decem- 
ber) '  are  now  elapsed  since  I  first  was  connected  in  office 
with  Mr.  Hastings.  Six  of  them  were  wasted  in  India  in 
perpetual  contest  with  him.  Seven  years  ago  I  left  him 
there  in  possession  of  absolute  power.  In  all  that  time 
no  charges  have  been  produced  against  me.  Yet  I  think 
it  cannot  be  said  that  I  have  been  particulaiiy  cautious 
not  to  provoke  hostihty,  or  that  there  is  no  disposition 
anywhere  to  accuse  me.  Surely,  sir,  if  accusation  is 
ever  to  come,  it  is  high  time  it  should  appear.  If  now, 
or  at  any  other  period,  I  should  be  obliged  to  change 
place  with  Mr.  Hastings,  if  hereafter  it  should  be  my 
lot  to  be  accused,  I  shah  assuredly  never  object  to 
his  being  my  prosecutor ;  for  though  by  removing  a 
powerful,  a  well-informed,  and,  in  the  sense  of  the  present 
argument,  an  inveterate  prosecutor,  I  might  provide  for 
my  safety,  my  honour  would  be  lost.' 

His  final  exclusion  from  the  list  drew  from  the  whole 
body  of  managers,  headed  by  Burke,  that  remarkable 
expression  of  their  sense  of  his  personal  importance 
which  deserves  a  place  in  any  account  of  his  life  : — 


'  Extract  of  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot's   speecli   on  moving   the   first   charge 
against  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  December  12,  1787 


1787]  INVITATION  FROM  THE  MANAGERS.  243 

To  Philip  Francis. 
Committee  Room,  House  of  Commons,  December  18,  1787. 
,Sir, — There  is  nothing  in  the  orders  of  the  House  whioh 
prevents  us  from  resorting  to  your  assistance,  and  we  should  show 
Tery  httle  regard  to  our  honourj  to  our  duty,  and  to  the  effectual 
execution  of  our  trust,  if  we  omitted  any  means  that  are  left  in  our 
power  to  obtain  the  most  beneficial  use  of  it. 

An  exact  local  knowledge  of  the  affairs  of  Bengal  is  requisite  in 
every  step  of  our  proceeding  ;  and  it  is  necessary  that  our  informa- 
tion should  come  from  sources  not  only  competent,  but  unsuspected. 
We  have  perused,  as  our  duty  has  often  led  us  to  do,  with  great 
attention,  the  records  of  the  Company  during  the  time  iu  which  you 
executed  the  important  office  committed  to  you  by  Parliament,  and 
our  good  opinion  of  you  has  grown  in  exact  proportion  of  the 
minuteness  and  accuracy  of  our  researches.  We  have  found  that, 
as  far  as  in  you  lay,  you  fully  answered  the  ends  of  your  arduous 
delegation.  An  exact  obedience  to  the  authority  placed  over  you  by 
the  laws  of  the  country,  vrise  and  steady  principles  of  government, 
an  inflexible  integrity  in  yourself,  and  a  firm  resistance  to  all  corrupt 
practice  in  others,  crovmed  by  a  uniform  benevolent  attention  to  the 
rights,  properties,  and  welfare  of  the  natives  (the  grand  leading 
object  of  your  appoiutment),  appear  eminently  throughout  these 
records.  Such  a  conduct,  so  tried,  acknowledged,  and  recorded, 
demands  our  fullest  confidence. 

They  conclude  by  requesting,  in  more  specific  terms, 
the  assistance  they  require  of  him,  and,  in  particular,  his 
frequent  attendance  at  their  committee. 

Francis,  no  doubt,  accepted  the  invitation,  and  did  not 
withhold  the  benefit  of  his  counsels  from  the  managers  ; 
but  in  the  great  drama  of  impeachment  enacted  in 
Westminster  Hall  he  could  take  no  open  part.  The 
career  of  his  public  fife  received  a  check  which  was  most 
sensibly  felt.  The  increased  bitterness,  along  with  a 
sense  of  discouragement,  which  characterises  his  subse- 
quent speeches  on  Indian  afiairs  (particularly  those  on 
the  unsuccessfully  proposed  impeachment  of  his  enemy 
Impey,  in  1788)  is  evident  enough.  And  this  oc- 
casion may  be  taken  for  inserting  some   of  his  corre- 

e2 


244  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [17S7 

spondence  during  this  period  on  those  aSairs,  especially 
with  Burke.  ^ 

'  I  insert  here  a  memorandum  wMcli  I  find  among  the  papera  of  Mr. 
Parkes  on  the  subject  of  Francis's  exclusion : — '  As  to  the  proposal  of 
him  in  the  House  of  Commons  as  one  of  the  managers  of  the  Warren 
Hastings  impeachment,  mde  Lord  Brougham's  character  of  Francis  and 
observations  on  the  above  question  in  Lord  Brougham's  "Statesmen," 
vol.  ii.  p.  80.  On  the  whole  I  concur  in  the  view  that  Francis  was  properly 
rejected.  But  much  pro  et  con.  may  be  urged  on  the  point.  Francis,  to  the 
end  of  life,  deemed  his  rejection  most  unjustifiable.  As  a  general  rule,  cer- 
tainly the  same  persons  should  never  combine  the  functions  of  accusers  and 
jridges,  functions  which  ought  always  to  be  kept  distinct.  But,  in  truth,  all 
the  managers  were  more  or  less  accusers  and  judges.  They  scrupled  not  to 
Tote  in  every  division.  There  never  was  so  disgracefully  constituted  a 
tribunal  and  {vide  James  Mill's  condemnation  of  it  in  his  "History  of  British 
India")  it  gave  its  object  of  prosecution  the  vantage  ground  of  the  just 
complaint  that  he  was  a  "  persecuted  man,"  and  in  many  senses  Hastings  was 
such.  The  enormous  cost  of  the  impeachment  to  the  accused,  the  uncon- 
scionable delays  and  duration  of  the  trial,  the  constant  violation  on  both  sides 
of  the  principles  and  rules  of  evidence,  will  ever  be  a  deep  stain  on  our 
highest  court  of  judicature. 

'  But  to  the  point  in  question :  Ought  Francis  or  ought  he  not  to  have  been 
nominated  one  of  the  managers  ?  I  shall  argue  in  the  negative,  not  for  the 
common  reason  assigned,  but  on  other  grounds.  Francis's  personal  relations 
with  Hastings  were  very  peculiar  and  of  jnuch  delicacy.  They  had  been  for 
several  years  in  India  opposed  to  each  other,  not  only  in  policy  but  personally, 
both  entertaining  equal  animosity,  amounting  to  personal  hatred.  Several 
articles  of  the  impeachment  were  subjects  in  which  Francis  had  taken 
an  individual  part  diametrically  contraiy  to  Hastings.  In  fact,  Francis 
would  have  been  on  many  articles  the  most  important  and  indispensable 
witness  against  Hastings,  especially  had  the  case  of  Nuncomar  been 
entertained.  Indeed,  Francis  would  have  aided  the  managers  much  more 
efiectively  had  he  not  been  even  proposed  as  a  manager.  The  vote  of 
the  majority  rejecting  him  declared  him  ineligible  as  an  accuser  and  as  a 
witness  in  the  cause,  ( Vide  "  Debates.")  Thus  he  was  in  a  degree  branded  as 
a  challenged  juryman,  the  objection  to  him  as  one  of  the  panel  being 
allowed  by  the  court !  Nor  was  his  position  at  all  afterwards  mended,  the 
managers  publicly  declaring  that  notwithstanding  his  rejection  they  should 
nevertheless  consult  and  treat  him  as  a  colleague  !  Thus,  and  in  his  known 
intimacy  and  influence  with  Bm-ke,  Francis  was  viewed  by  the  public  as  a  sort 
of  informer,  an  unfair  accuser,  and  he  was  caricatured  (by  Sayer)  as  the 
"  Prompter  "  behind  the  scenes.  Thus  also  in  Francis's  own  language,  on  the 
termination  of  the  trial,  it  would  seem  that  he  himself,  not  Hastings,  was 
the  real  culprit  arraigned  and  tried !  Francis,  so  far,  was  placed,  and 
partly  placed  himself,  in  a  false  position. 

'  It  has  been  argued  that  the  circumstances  which  occasioned  the  duel  in 


1785]  COREESPONDENCE  WITH  BURKE.  245 

Burke  to  Francis. 

September  30,  1785. 

My  dear  Pramcis, — Here  I  am  returned  from  my  Scotcli  journey. 

On  wliat  journeys  have  you  been,  and  what  does  your prompt 

you  to  ?  If  you  are  for  knotting  and  splicing,  and  preparing  agaia 
for  action  in  the  Bay  of  Bengal,  have  at  you.  We  shall  not  indeed 
make  such  a  fortune  of  our  naval  engagements  in  those  seas  as 
Sir  Edward  Hughes.  But  let  us  do  what  we  can.  Adieu.  Our 
best  and  most  cordial  compliments  to  Mrs.  Francis  and  the  ladies. 

Tours  ever  most  sincerely, 

Edm.  Bubke. 
November  14,  1785. 
My  dear  Francis, — I  proposed  going  to  you  the  instant  almost 
that  I  received  your  letter.  But  first  Fox  came  in  upon  me  ;  and 
afterwards  came  an  engagement  to  Lady  Rockiugham,  from  which  I 
could  not  well  be  off.  I  now  cannot  go ;  but  if  you  and  Mrs. 
Francis  and  the  young  ladies  will  favour  me  with  your  company  any 
day  after  Wednesday,  we  should  be  extremely  obliged  to  you. 
Thank  yon  for  your  kind  attention  to  Dick. 

I  am,  my  dear  sir, 
Most  truly  and  affectionately  yours, 

Edm.  Btjeke. 
Beaconsfield,  November  23,  1785. 
My  dear  Sir, — I  shall  be  with  you  on  Saturday  next,  if  some 
accident  that  I  don't  foresee  should  not  prevent  me.  I  have  lately 
passed  a  very  pleasant  day  with  Mr.  Fox  here.  I  shall  be  happy  in 
having  the  same  satisfaction  renewed,  with  the  improvement  it  must 
receive  at  Sheen.' 

I  do  not  well  see  how  the  East  can  be  kept  out  of  our  conversa- 
tion ;  but  I  if  were  to  choose,  it  should  make  mere  matter  of 
conversation  and  not  the  subject  of  a  business  consultation.  There 
can  be  no  difference  between  us  on  the  general  principles  of  Indian 

1780,  and  the  duel  itself,  were  reasons  why  Francis  should  not  have  acted 
as  a  manager  of  the  impeachment.  But  such  chciunstances  formed  no  valid 
objection.  Duellists  oftentimes  have  conttuued  bitter  political  and  personal 
opponents  throughout  life — but  duellists  who  have  shot  at  and  wounded 
each  other  have  also  subsequently  become  attached  friends  and  members  of 
the  same  cabinet.  The  real  argument  against  Francis  as  a  manager  or  a 
j  udge  is,  that  he  was  unquestionably  an  interested  party  in  the  impeachment 
of  Hastings,  and  that  there  is  no  disguising  the  fact.  And  it  was  no  true 
ground  for  his  claim  to  be  a  manager  that  it  was  an  anomalous  jurisdiction, 
or  that  Burke  himself  was  the  earliest  and  chief  accuser  of  the  ex-Govemor- 
General  of  India.'— J.  Parkes. 

Where  Francis  now  chiefly  resided. 


246  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FBANCIS.  [1785 

politics.  On  the  same  abstract  "view  of  things  the  plan  of  conduct 
you  propose  naust  meet  the  approbation  of  almost  everybody. 
Therefore,  any  further  discussion  of  the  subject  as  an  affair  of  parliti- 
mentary  management  is  unnecessary.  When  you  or  he  bring  any 
Indian  question  before  the  House,  the  single  vote  to  which  I  am 
reduced  will  be  given  to  justice  in  the  first  place,  in  the  next  to  you 
and  to  Mr.  Fox.  If  I  were  to  enter  into  any  further  detail,  besides 
the  indecorum  of  making  a  man's  personal  feelings  atopic  in  the  con- 
sideration of  a  great  public  concern,  I  should  fall  into  the  more  dis- 
gusting impropriety  of  seizing  you  upon  points  on  which  I  have  more 
than  once  troubled  you  already.  If  a  man  is  disabled  from  rendering 
any  essential  service  to  his  principles  or  to  his  party,  he  ought  at  least 
to  contrive  to  make  his  conversation  as  little  disagreeable  as  he  can 
to  the  society  which  his  friends  may  still  be  indulgent  enough  to 
hold  with  him. 

Since  I  came  from  Scotland '  (or  rather  for  some  time  after  my 
return)  I  have  endeavoured  to  banish  India  from  my  thoughts.  I 
have  not  opened  a  drawer  on  that  subject  nor  looked  over  a  paper, 
except  two  or  three  memorials  which  were  sent  to  me,  and  which,  to 
say  the  truth,  are  curious  enough.  I  will  take  them  with  me  when 
I  go  to  you.  Adieu.  Believe  me,  with  the  most  sincere  affection, 
my  dear  Francis, 

Most  truly  yours,  &c. 

Edm.  Bueke. 

December  14,  1785. 
My  dear  Sir, — ^What's  the  best  day  for  drinking — Saturday  will 
be  a  very  pleasant  day  to  me,  if  you  make  it  a  tolerable  one  to  you. 
If  anything  (so  far  as  mmi  is  concerned,  for  we  have  agreed  there 
is  no  company  good  but  that  of  women)  can  add  to  the  satisfaction 
of  seeing  you,  it  will  be  your  bringing  Mr.  Archdechne  with  you.  I 
wrote  you  a  volume  as  long  as  an  East  India  minute,  that  is  as  long 
as  a  European  centwry.  I  hope  Friday- Saturday  no  post  went 
out.  Sunday  was  Sunday— consequently  idle — and  Monday  I 
dined  with  Lord  Inchequin.  So  my  farm  went  to  the  devil  whilst 
I  spent  almost  all  Tuesday  in  a  pohtical  dissertation  to  you. 
Bring  us  good  news  of  Miss  Francis. 

Yours  ever, 

Edm.  Bueke. 
To  Bristow,  m  Indm. 

London,  April  15,  1786. 

Dear  Bristow, — I  "do  assure  you,  that  I  have  written  to  you  by 

'  Burke  had  been  there  in  company  with  Windham.  (See  the  detailed 
and  very  curious  account  of  their  tour  in  the  latter's  Diary.) 


1786]  CORRESPONDENCE  WITH  BURKE.  247 

every  opportunity  in  my  power,  for  tlie  last  two  years,  and  particu- 
larly I  am  sure  I  wrote  by  the  Fox  Pacquet,  but  having  nobody  to 
help  me,  it  was  impossible  to  keep  copies  of  my  letters.  I  am  now 
to  acknowledge  yours  of  October  25,  1785,  but  whether  I  answer 
it  fully  or  not  with  my  own  hand,  you  must  take  the  will  for  the 
deed.  I  am  nearly  overwhelmed  with  the  toil  that  has  fallen  un- 
avoidably to  my  lot  ia  preparing  and  conducting  the  impeachment. 
The  slavery  I  have  gone  through  iu  that  business,  added  to  my 
attendance  in  ParUament  and  my  efforts  to  overset  the  India  Bill  of 
1784,  has  been  too  much  for  me  ;  and,  what  is  worst  of  all,  the  pain 
of  the  wound  I  received  in  August,  1780,  has  lately  returned  with 
great  violence,  so  that  I  can  hardly  sit  straight  in.  a  chair  or  sleep 
in  my  bed.  I  shall  make  a  shift  to  tell  you,  however,  what  may  be 
most  material,  and  leave  the  rest  to  your  nephew,  whom  I  have  in- 
structed as  well  as  I  could. 

I  think  you  have  acted  right  not  to  quit  the  ground,  while  any 
accusations  against  you  were  depending.  The  papers  which  you 
have  already  recorded  or  transmitted  to  me  are  very  material,  but 
I  wish  you  had  not  withheld  any  of  your  proofs  ;  now  as,  in  my 
private  judgment,  the  business  of  the  impeachment  will  not  be  con- 
cluded in  the  present  session,  do  not  act  on  a  presumption  that 
anything  you  have  still  to  transmit  will  arrive  too  late,  but  send 
everything  you  have  by  every  opportunity.  I  would  give  a  finger 
to  have  you  here  at  present,  especially  as  I  do  not  think  you  can  stay 
long  in  that  country.  In  my  judgment,  it  will  soon  be  too  hot  to 
hold  any  of  you ;  the  French  and  Dutch  are  certainly  forming  plans 
and  collecting  forces  in  India  which  threaten  us  with  ruin. 

Burke  to  Francis. 

Tou  are  not  to  doubt  that  Mrs.  Burke  and  myself  always  have 
thought  and  always  shall  think  you  a  very  sensible  man  whenever 
you  agree  with  our  sense,  and  shall  think  that  you  take  every  step 
proper  for  an  affectionate  father  whether  it  be  taken  according  to 
to  our  own  opinion  or  not.  I  have  great  hopes  from  this  Nicene 
journey,  and  I  hope  God  wiU  bless  that  undertaking  :  I  assure  you 
we  wish  it  here  most  cordially.  I  scarce  know  anybody  in  France. 
Dick  is  better  acquainted  there  ;  but  I  doubt  whether  his  letters 
will  arrive  in  time  to  be  of  any  service.  The  only  persons  I  know 
are  the  Bishop  of  Auxerre  and  his  family  and  the  Parisots  of  Auxerre. 
Tour  way  lies  through  that  town,  and  as  you  may  possibly  find  it 
necessary  to  rest  a  day  or  two  on  your  journey,  you  may  find  their 
attentions  useful.  Not  that,  in  general,  I  have  found  attentions  to  ailing 
people  of  any  great  use,  unless  they  are  to  make  a  permanent  abode 


248  MEMOIES  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FBtA-NCIS.  [1780 

in  a  place ;  because  attention  requires  some  reciprocal  attention,, 
and  there  is  always  some  matter  of  restraint  that,  above  all  things, 
oppresses  in  certain  situations  of  the  mind  and  body.  Proper  di- 
rections and  recommendations  at  Mce  will  be  more  important ;  but 
there  I  can  be  of  no  service  at  all,  for  I  know  no  creature  there. 
Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  who  is  so  strong  an  instance  of  the  benefit  of  that 
place,  can,  I  believe,  give  the  best  directions  both  as  to  the  route 
and  to  the  rules  to  be  observed,  and  can  recommend  (as  well  as  any 
one  can  recommend)  to  a  place  where  hardly  any  can  be  considered 
as  residents.  I  will  send  you  letters  to  the  bishop  and  Madame 
Parisot,  as  soon  as  I  can  get  Miss  Hickey  to  write  them  for  me  to, 
be  transcribed,  for  you  will  easily  conceive  that  I  do  not  wish  to 
see  my  French  in  black  and  white.  By  the  way,  I  have  just  recol- 
lected that  I  know  Abbe  Dillon  and  his  brother.  The  house  of  the 
Dillons  are  very  civil  to  the  English,  who  are  well  received  there. 
The  archbishop  may  not  be  at  Paris  or  the  Comte,  but  you  will  take 
your  chance.  The  abbe  as  well  as  his  brother  the  chevalier  under- 
stand English,  the  latter  very  well ;  so  I  can  risk  writing  to 
them  without  the  aid  of  my  French  secretary. 

Tour  ladies  have  been  so  excessive  in  rating  Mrs.  Burke  and  my 
httle  attentions  to  them,  that  we  can  say  nothing  about  them  that 
will  not  look  like  a  sort  of  payment  in  kind.  But  indeed  we  are 
infinitely  flattered  in  their  Uking  of  us,  and  we  think  so  well  of  them, 
(whatever  we  may  do  of  ourselves)  as  to  be  persuaded  that  in  their 
expressions  of  regard  there  is  something  more  than  politeness.  As 
to  Philip,  he  folly  answers  the  opinion  I  had  formed  on  him.  He  is 
really  a  fine,  hvely,  intelligent,  and  natural  lad.  Indeed  you  are 
happy  in  your  family.  God  bless  you,  and  give  all  success  to  your 
voyage,  and  may  the  young  lady  whom  you  accompany  find  her 
excellent  mother  and  sisters  on  her  return  in  health  to  enjoy  all  the 
health  she  will  bring  with  her,  and  that  I  hope  will  be  such  to  do 
credit  to  the  climate  of  Nice. 

Ever  most  truly  yours, 

Edm.  Bueke. 
August  6,  1786. 

Richard  Burhe  to  Francis. 

Beaconsfield,  Sunday  morning,  October,  1786. 
My  dear  Sir, — Who  shall  decide  when  doctors  disagree  ?     Here- 
with you  will  receive  the  opinions  of  one  great  judge  against  the 
practice  of  another :  Misdemeanour  versus  Felony ;  but  Nuncomar 
was  hanged,  and  there  is  no  averring  against  either  lord  or  record. 
We  found  a  letter  from  Edmund,  dated  yesterday  se'pnight  at 


1786]  CORKESPONDENCE  WITH  BURKE.  249 

Holyhead.  They  were  on  tlie  point  of  embarking.  He  says  ttat 
the  -wind  was  not  fair,  but  it  was  so  mild  as  to  make  them  rely  on 
the  tide  for  aid.  If  you  remember  the  tempest  which  raged  in  these 
quarters  on  that  day,  you  will  wonder. 

I  trouble  you  with  a  letter,  which  I  beg  of  you  to  send  free.  Were 
I  to  use  the  language  of  the  writer  of  that  letter,  I  should  say  that 
your  friend  Evans  is  not  an  esquire,  and  so  I  leave  it  to  jonv  inge- 
nuity to  add  the  profane  abbreviation  of  Mister.  We  Quakers 
acknowledge  no  master.  Mrs.  Burke  sends  a  thousand  loves  and 
compliments  to  the  ladies.  I  beg  them  to  receive  half  the  number 
from  me. 

Tours  truly, 

RiCHABD   BtTEKE. 

Burke  to  Francis. 

November  3,  1786. 

My  dear  Francis, — Here  I  am,  after  some  dips  in  the  Stygian 
flood  of  my  native  Liffy,  which  have  made  me  quite  invulnerable 
except  iu  the  heel,  and  in  twenty  or  thirty  different  parts,  but 
perfectly  secure  as  to  the  forehead.  I  have  gone  through  with 
a  patience  to  emulate  even  yours.  Eighty-four  hours  calms  in  the 
sea  which  is  said  to  be  so  turbulent !  So  ill  does  the  world  estimate 
the  temper  of  Irishmen  and  Irish  seas  !  I  have  heard  of  your 
Ulyssean  peregrinations.  Thank  God  you  have  succeeded  so  well,  at 
least  in  prospect,  iu  doing  your  duty  with  much  labour  and  self- 
denial  towards  that  fine  girl  of  yours.  Now  I  am  your  humble 
servant  for  all  good  works.  I  think  I  shall  go  to  town,  though 
but  for  one  day,  on  Monday.  Can  you  be  here  before,  or  will  you 
come  with  me  when  I  have  been  to  pay  my  devoirs  to  you  and  your 
family  at  Sheen  ?  Dick  is  a  little  shaken  with  a  succession  of  colds 
and  two  voyages,  and  such  rapid  journeys  and  a  continual  hurry 
in  Ireland ;  but  I  think  you  will  find  him  recovered,  and  as  much 
yours  as  I  am,  and  ought  to  be.  Mrs.  Burke  is  always  much 
attached  to  the  family  at  Sheen. 

I  am,  my  dear  sir. 
Ever  faithfally  and  affectionately  yours, 

Edm.  Bueee. 

Beaconsfield,  November  8,  1786. 
I  did  not  receive  your  letter  until  this  morning,  and  am  very 
sorry  to  hear  of  the  cold,  by  whatever  name  it  is  to  be  abjured,  or 
conjured,  or  exorcised.  I  proposed  to  be,  and  would  have  been,  ia 
London  long  before  this,  but  I  stay  here  to  compel  Richard  to  stay 
along  with  me.      He  has  no   decided  complaint,   but  is  by  no 


250  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1786 

means  -well,  thougli  lie  has  a  mind  to  act  as  if  lie  was.  I  long  very 
mucli  to  see  you,  and  if  I  were  in  condition  to  plan  matters  accord- 
ing to  my  own  good  liking,  I  should  certainly  fall  in  with  your 
wishes  and  go  to  Sheen  to  bring  you  to  Beaconsfield.  But  since  I 
cannot  assure  myself  that  I  shall  be  able  to  do  this,  why  cannot 
you  bring  one  of  your  fair  ladies  along  with  you,  if  Mrs.  Francis  is 
absolutely  immovable,  and  take  this  long  journey  hither  ?  It  is 
not  altogether  so  far  as  to  Nice,  the  roads  tolerable,  the  horses  and 
postilions  not  such  as  to  make  you  swear  a  great  deal,  the  inns 
clean  and  decent,  the  charges  reasonable,  the  provisions  eatable,  the 
cookery  not  poisonous,  the  climate  not  intolerably  severe,  and  the 
manners  and  customs  of  the  natives  of  the  several  counties  through 
which  you  pass  not  extremely  rude  and  ferocious.  With  all  these 
encouraging  circumstances,  I  hope  to  see  you  here.  If  not,  pray 
tell  me  so  as  soon  as  you  receive  this. 

E.  B. 

Franais  to  8hee. 

London,  December  4,  1786. 

My  dear  Shee, — I  take  the  opportunity  of  a  gentleman  who  goes  to 
Bengal  in  a  foreign  ship  to  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of 
the  14th  of  March  last  in  duplicate.  Tou  behave  yourself  much  better 
than  I  had  any  reason  to  expect,  for  as  you  are  a  violent  gentleman, 
and  are  apt  to  conclude  rapidly  from  appearances,  you  might  na- 
turally suspect  that  I  was  negligent  or  forgetful  of  you  ;  but  your 
writing  so  copiously,  with  that  impression  upon  your  mind,  is  very 
meritorious.  The  real  truth  is  that  I  neither  have  the  same  dexte- 
rity in  writing  nor  the  same  opportunities  of  sending  letters  that  I 
had  in  Bengal.  I  was  then  in  high  exercise,  and  had  plenty  of 
secretaries  to  copy  for  me.  I  knew  of  the  departure  of  ships,  which 
now  I  never  hear  of,  and  had  the  times  and  seasons  of  vpriting  at 
my  command.  All  these  circumstances  are  reversed  ;  but  beware 
of  suspecting  that  anything  else  about  me  is  altered.  I  fear  I  do 
not  persevere  in  hating  some  people  so  long  as  I  ought  to  do ;  in 
everything  but  my  enmities  I  am  tolerably  obstinate.  Tou  draw 
pictures  to  admiration.  As  long  as  the  scenes  shift,  pray  let  your 
pencil  be  employed. 

By  this  time  you  have  been  witness  to  a  marvellous  transition 
from  small  wares  to  coronets,  to  ignorance  with  dignity  from 
ignorance  without  it.  It  is  hard  that  integrity  should  have  nothing 
to  support  it.  Now  observe  you  are  never  to  show  this  letter  to 
anybody  but  Mrs.  Shee,  on  whose  friendship  and  discretion  I  place 
a  particular   dependence.      The  prosecution  of  your  friend  Mr. 


1786]  LETTERS  TO  INDIA.'  261 

Hastings  will  be  revived  witli  a  renewal  of  vigour  as  soon  as  Par- 
liament meets.  He  lias  had.  a  pleasant  summer  of  it.  An  attempt 
will  also  be  made  to  impeacli  Sir  Elijab  Impey,  in  wbose  fate  I  know 
you  are  interested.  Let  tbe  event  to  tbeir  persons  be  wliat  it  may, 
tie  charges  will  gibbet  their  characters  to  all  eternity. 

From  various  passages  in  your  letters  a  stranger  would  be  apt  to 
imagine  that  I  had  the  whole  trust  and  absolute  management  of 
your  fortune  in  England,  but  to  this  hour  I  have  never  seen  an 
account  of  your  remittances,  nor  am  I  able  to  tell  you  precisely 
what  your  uncle  has  done  with  them.  Ducarel  lives  a  hundred 
m.iles  off  in  perfect  obscurity,  and,  as  to  me,  I  don't  guess  what  it  is 
you  expect  me  to  transact.  This  I  do  know,  that  your  affairs  are  in 
the  hands  of  as  honest  and  as  prudent  a  man  as  Uves.  The  account 
he  gives  me  of  your  property  here  is  not  so  high  as  you  state  ;  but 
why  the  devil  don't  you  send  me  an  exact  account  of  it  in  proper 
form  ?  Tou  talk  very  loosely  about  ten  thousand  pounds.  When 
you  have  five  times  that  sum  realised  here,  I  give  you  leave  to 
come  to  England,  not  sooner.  Tou  are  a  mad  man  if  you  think 
of  it.  I,  for,  example,  have  above  three  thousand  pounds  a  year  to 
spend,  and  I  live  with  rigid  economy  ;  yet  it  is  the  utmost  I  can  do 
not  to  exceed  my  income. 

Another  thing.  Take  my  advice  once  in  your  life  :  lay  aside  forty 
thousand  rupees  for  a  seat  in  Parliament.  In  this  country,  that 
alone  makes  all  the  difference  between  somebody  and  nobody. 

I  kiss  the  fair  hand  that  copied  your  letter,  and  am  affectionately 
and  faithfully  yours. 

To  Sir  Bolert  Ohambers. 

London,  December  20,  1786. 
Dear  Sir, — I  received  your  letter  of  the  12th  December  last  with 
very  great  pleasure,  and  that,  I  assure  you,  is  saying  much  for 
anything  that  comes  from  Bengal.  To  that  country  I  am  certainly 
much  indebted  ;  but  as  far  as  labour  and  plague  may  entitle  a  man 
to  wages,  I  think  I  have  earned  my  reward.  This  next  sessions,  I 
most  devoutly  hope,  will  put  a  period  to  my  political  connections 
with  India.  Since  the  year  1774  they  have  employed  the  whole  of 
my  life,  and  embittered  too  much  of  it.  My  dear  friend,  I  did  not 
suspect  you  of  forgetting  or  neglecting  me.  If  not  writing  regu- 
larly to  one's  friends  were  a  breach  of  duty,  I  should  have  more  to 
answer  for  than  you  have,  but  I  should  not  be  vrithout  some  tole- 
rable excuse.  I  have  always  confided  in  your  friendship,  and  shall 
always  depend  on  its  continuance.  I  trust  it  will  never  be  abated 
by  any  want  of  formality  of  either  side.     The  account  you  give  me 


252  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1786 

of  your  own  situation  makes  it  necessary  that  I  should  possess  you 
of  mine.     Concerning   Indian  politics,  it  has  happened  strangely 
that  I  have  never  been  in  luck,  not  even  while  I  was  in  office.     I 
was   deserted  and  sacrificed    on    the   spot,    and    have    been  com- 
pletely proscribed  since  I  left  it.     Had  it  been  possible  for  me  to 
pursue  another  line,  I  might  have  been  in  some  considerable  office 
long  ago.     As  it  is,  I  find  myself  farther  from  employment  and  profit 
than  ever  I  was.     Fortunately  for  me,   my  circumstances  are  not 
pressing,  and  I  am  so  fond  of  my  liberty  that  no  common  advan- 
tage would  tempt  me  to  resign  it,  even  to  work  with-  an  adminis- 
tration that  I  liked.     I  see  and  feel  the  hardship  and  injustice  with 
which  you  are  treated,  but  in  what  way  I  may  be  able  to  do  you 
service  does  not  at  present  occur  to  me.     I  hardly  know  how  I  can 
appear  to  be  your  friend  without  hurting  your  interest.     To  Lord 
North  I  certainly  could  speak  with  all  manner  of  freedom,  but  I 
very  much  question  whether  his  interest  would  be  of  any  more  use 
to  you  than  mine.     I  am  not  in  contact  with  any  man  in  power  iu 
this  country,  and  as  to  the  Chancellor  '  in  particular,  I  should  he 
very  sorry  for  your  sake  that  he  knew  how  earnestly  I  wish  to  serve 
you.     I  hope  you  will, have  thought  it  right  to  address  yourself 
directly  to  him,  for  at  his  disposition  I  conclude  your  object  lies. 
With  respect  to  Sir  Ehjah  Impey,  I  am  of  opinion  that  his  situation 
cannot  be  in  suspense  much  longer.     He  must  either  resume  his 
office  or  relinquish  it  very  soon.     As  soon  as  Mr.  Hastings  is  dis- 
posed of  one  way  or   other,   I  have   reason  to  believe  that  the 
impeachment  of  the  other  will  be  attempted,  and  with  some  better 
prospect   of  success.     He  is  by  no  means  so  well   supported  as 
Hastings,  and  I  know  there  are  many,  on  that  side,  who  would  be 
ready  to  make  him  the  scapegoat.     From  that  quarter  I  have  been 
asked  twenty  times.  Why  don't  you  impeach  Impey  ?  In  short,  many 
of  those  who  defend  the  one  would  be  glad  to  make  it  up  with 
their  own   conscience  and  reputation  by  punishing  the  other.     I 
write  to  you  in  confidence  and  perhaps  indiscreetly.     To  the  best  of 
my  judgment  he  will  be  hard  run,  and  I  hear  he  is  very  uneasy 
about  it.     In  my  opinion,  his  going  up  to  Lucknow  to  take  those 
depositions  against  the  Begums  is  the  blackest  and  basest  transac- 
tion, except  one,  that  has  yet  dishonoured  the  British  administration 
in  India.     Let  the  event  of  the  prosecution  be  ever  so  favourable  to 
him,  a  minute  and  public  inquiry  into  all  his  conduct  cannot  but  be 
very  afflicting  to  him.     As  to  Mr.   Hastings,  I  believe  he  is  too 
powerfally  protected  to  have  anything  to  fear  for  his  safety.     But  I 


Thurlowe. 


1786]  COEEESPONDENCE  WITH  BURKE.  253 

can  assure  you  there  is  a  punisliment  wliiclii  he  cannot  escape,  and 
no  man  can  look  at  him  without  seeing  that  he  suffers  it. 
Secretum  quatiente  animo  tortore  flagellum. 

To  say  nothing  of  his  virtues,  the  public  opinion  of  his  abilities 
is  greatly  impaired  by  some  of  his  late  performances,  particularly 
his  view  of  the  state  of  India,  than  which  a  more  silly,  stupid,  and 
impudent  piece  of  falsehood  was  never  exhibited.  I  cannot  believe 
it  possible  that  Sir  Elijah  Impey  will  ever  be  permitted  to  return  to 
India.  Nor  am  I  sure  that  he  desires  it.  The  profession  of  such  a 
desire,  I  imagine,  was  meant  only  to  masque  his  fortune.  N'either 
can  I  think  it  possible  that  any  administration  would  supersede  you. 
But  I  shall  make  it  my  business  to  watch  and  inquire,  and  to  give 
you  the  best  information  I  can  get. 

Sir  John  Day  is  equally  offended  and  surprised  at  the  disposition 
of  his  offiioe.  He  considers  it  as  his,  and  talks  of  returning  to  it.  In 
the  course  of  last  summer  I  was  obliged  to  carry  my  eldest  daughter 
to  Mce,  where  alone  it  was  agreed  by  the  faculty  that  she  had  any 
chance  of  recovery.  My  son  is  at  Cambridge,  and  the  rest  of  my 
family  going  on  pretty  well,  except  Mrs.  Francis,  whose  health  is 
at  all  times  very  indifferent.  We  stay  at  East  Sheen  till  after 
Christmas,  which  throws  me  out  of  the  way  of  the  present  state  of 
Indian  intelligence.  Even  the  departure  of  the  ships  seldom  comes 
to  my  knowledge  time  enough  to  write  as  much  as  I  would  do  if  I 
had  earlier  notice. 

Burke  to  Franois. 

Beaeonafield,  December  15,  1786. 
My  dear  Francis, — Richard  would  have  profited  of  your  kind 
invitation  to  a  pleasant  party,  but  he  is  not  right  well  yet,  though 
much  better  than  he  was.  Perhaps  I  am  got  into  some  puzzle  ; 
but  if  I  don't  mistake,  it  was  you  that  told  me  of  a  seat  to  be  had  for 
the  remainder  of  this  parliament  at  two  thousand  pounds.  I  had  a 
letter  from  John  King  this  morning.  He  tells  me  that  a  chapman 
such  as  we  could  wish  in  point  of  principles  and  inclinations  may  be 
had.  Who  has  the  disposal  of  the  seat  ?  Or  what  course  is  to  be 
taken,  that  the  affair  may  be  put  into  train  ?  I  wrote  yesterday 
(to  my  shame  not  earlier)  to  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot.  I  hear  that 
Windham  is  in  town.  What  is  he  doing  ?  If  you  see  him,  tell  him 
I  long  to  know  something  about  him.  Do  you  spur  him  on  to  do 
something  about  the  hive,  otherwise  he  shall  be  buzzed  and 
hummed  out  as  a  downright  drone.  All  here  desire  to  be  cordially 
remembered  to  you  and  yours. 

E.  B. 


254  MEMOIRS  OF  SIK  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1787 

BurJce  to  Francis. 

January  2,  1787. 

I  have  heard  from  Sir  G.  Elliot.  He  has  passed  his  time  but 
indifferently,  his  wife  having  been  on  the  point  of  death  in  a  very- 
bad  labour  of  twins.  However,  he  writes  in  remarkably  good 
spirits,  and  says  he  will  be  in  town  before  the  twentieth.  I  have 
written  to  him  to  press  that  that  before  may  be  as  long  before  as 
possible,  and  I  have  begged  him  to  select  an  head  for  himself  to 
open.  Fox  and  Windham  came  hither  one  day  (I  forget  what  day) 
last  week,  and  returned,  the  one  to  town,  the  other  to'  St.  Anne's 
Hill,  the  next  morning.  I  cannot  say  that  our  conversation  pro- 
duced much,  but  I  think  they  feel,  both  of  them,  about  India 
nearly  as  I  could  wish,  and  as  we  do  ourselves.  I  always  think  I 
have  a  good  deal  to  say  to  you,  but  it  evaporates  before  we  meet, 
and  perhaps  it  is  not  so  much  as  at  moments  I  fancy.  The  Duke 
of  Portland  tells  me  that  Sheridan  has  warmed  with  a  sort  of  love 
passion  to  our  Begums.  General  Smith  says,  what  I  am  much 
inclined  to  believe,  that  he  will  make  such  a  figure  on  that  subject 
as  has  not  been  hitherto  seen,  and  for  part  of  this  figure  he  takes 
some  credit  to  himself  for  his  hints  and  instructions.  Would  it  not 
be  clever  in  you  to  come  down  hither  on  the  receipt  of  this,  and 
bring  one  of  your  young  ladies  with  you,  and  let  us  talk  a  httle  on 
the  business  of  India,  and  other  business  ?  It  is  not  to  be  conceived 
how  rusty  I  am  on  all  sorts  of  business.  I  want  to  be  rubbed  and 
fretted  a  little.  If  you  cannot  come,  I  mean  to  run  to  town  on  the 
5th ;  and  wish  to  see  you  at  my  house  in  Gerrard  Street,  late  Sir 
William  James's.  I  have  taken  it  for  seven  months.  What  say  you 
to  all  this  ?  Dick,  I  think,  may  be  called  well  at  length.  He 
ought  not  to  have  made  one  at  your  festivity :  he  was  not  in  condi- 
tion. 

Adieu.  Mrs.  Burke  most  cordially  salutes  Mrs.  Francis  and  all 
yours.  By  the  way,  it  is  holiday  time,  and  why  should  you  not  bring 
the  younger  Francis  with  you  ? 

February  27, 1787. 
My  dear  Francis, — ^Tou  have  not  left  me  one  easy  moment  since 
the  hint  you  gave  me  relating  to  the  few  words  I  said  in  the  House 
this  evening.  It  is  a  most  abominable  thing  to  throw  out  one 
word  which  might  appear  in  disparagement  to  professional  men  at 
our  bar,  the  furthest  thing  from  my  heart  and  my  practice,  and,  on 
this  occasion,  the  most  completely  remote  from  my  opinion.  I  did 
not  indeed  hear  the  whole  of  the  counsel's  argument,  but  what  I  did 
hear  I  thought  very  weighty.     I  have  long  thought  most  highly  of 


1787]  VISIT  TO  IBELAND.  255 

Mr.  Rouse's  abilities.  I  am  not  so  mucli  acquainted  as  yet  with 
Mr.  Dallas,  but  I  really  thought  there  was  shown  this  night  by 
him  a  deal  of  most  manly  and  most  convincing  eloquence ;  so  much 
that  from  what  I  heard  this  night  I  had  great  reason  to  regret 
that  Mr.  Middleton's  correspondence  should  defraud  me  of  one 
word  of  it.  When  I  said  the  subject  had  scarcely  been  opened,  I 
certainly  had  not  the  least  idea  of  the  bar.  Indeed  I  must  have 
been  understood  with  many  grains  of  aUowanoe  even  of  the  House, 
when  I  recollect  your  truly  admirable  speech  last  year.  But  I 
spoke  from  my  notions  (perhaps  too  big)  of  the  subject  of  all 
Dundas's  legislative  contrivances,  which  are  in  my  judgment  the 
most  wildly  and  the  most  diffusively  mischievous  of  anything  I 
have  ever  known.  To  these  ideas  (which  take  in  much  more  than 
the  subject  to  day)  I  meant  to  allude  :  to  nothing  else.  I  long  for 
an  opportunity  of  doing  justice  to  talents  and  spirited  exertions.  I 
shall  never  speak  on  this  subject  (I  believe)  but  to  give  me  an 
opportunity  of  setting  to  rights  this  misconception. 

I  am  ever  yours  most  truly, 

Edm.  Bdeke. 

'  In  this  year  (1787)  Francis  paid  a  short  visit  to  Ireland. 
Burke  gave  him  an  introductory  letter  to  Lord  Charle- 
mont  (printed  in  his  works),  in  which  he  mentions  him 
(Francis)  as  a  native  of  that  country,  but  who  had  never 
set  his  foot  in  it  since  his  childhood.  According  to  the 
editor  of  Bohn's  '  Junius,'  it  was  in  this  year  also  (not  in 
1773)  that  he  recovered  his  private  papers  from  the 
Calcraft  family.  But  I  do  not  know  the  authority  for 
this. 

To  Hay  m  India. 

London,  May  22,  1787. 
My  dear  Hay, — I  have  received,  by  the  Swallow,  your  letters  of 
the  15th  and  19th  of  November  last,  with  all  the  papers  and  letters 
enclosed.  My  answer,  and  even  my  thanks,  must  be  as  brief  as  I 
can  make  them.  In  the  first  place,  I  am  afflicted  at  hearing  of 
your  intention  of  sending  me  another  pipe  of  Madeira.  I  have 
actually  more  than  I  can  drink  in  ten  years.  Tou  will  forgive  me 
then,  if,  whenever  this  second  pipe  arrives,  I  dispose  of  it  to  the 
best  advantage,  and  p8,y  over  the  amount  to  your  agent,  or  banker. 
Moreover,  I  request  that  you  wUl  send  me  our  account  current,  that 
I  may  liquidate  the  balance  by  the  earliest  opportunity.     My  dear 


256  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1788 

boj)  you  are  too  generous  to  everybody.  RecoUeot,  I  beseech,  you, 
that  you  ought  not  to  be  an  exile  for  ever. 

The  imputation  against  me  (respecting  some  missing  property  of 
Nuncomar)  is  ridiculous  and  contemptible,  and  I  request  that,  if 
it  be  revived,  it  may  be  answered  on  my  part  with  contempt  and 
defiance.  These  are  the  terms  in  which  I  answer  all  charges 
against  me  in  the  House  of  Commons,  particularly  those  preferred 
against  me  now  and  then  by  Major  Scott,  but  never  insisted  on  by 
the  said  major. 

Ton  speak  of  an  afiB.davit  of  yours  about  poor  Tilghman's  efiects, 
but  I  do  not  find  any  such  paper  enclosed. 

I  rejoice  to  hear  that  you  stand  so  well  with  Lord  Comwallis, 
and  I  have  no  doubt  that,  sooner  or  later,  his  favour  will  turn  to  a 
profitable  account.  In  the  mean  time,  is  it  no  reward  to  be  able  to 
hold  up  your  head  in  such  times  as  these  and  to  bid  defiance  to 
inquiry  ?  I  am  sure  you  feel  as  I  do  on  this  occasion.  If  you  were 
to  see  how  low  and  degraded  the  wealth  of  India  is  at  this  moment 
in  England,  you  would  not  only  not  regret  your  poverty,  but  be 
proud  of  it.  To  your  brother  William  and  to  the  newspapers  I 
must  refer  you  for  all  the  business  of  Indian  politics,  &c.  Tou  and 
I  are  under  a  tacit  engagement  not  to  meddle  with  public  affairs ; 
yet  I  cannot  help  recom.mending  to  your  perusal  the  Morning 
Herald  of  the  5th  of  April  instant.  Tou  wiU  there  see  how  and  by 
what  honourable  courses,  the  cause  of  Mr.  Hastings  has  been 
supported.  All  I  shall  say  is,  you  may  depend  upon  it  the 
famous  talisman  is  broken  and  the  enchanted  castle  is  dissolved.  I 
fear  I  shall  not  be  able  to  write  to  my  good  friend  Wilton.  Pray 
tell  him.,  however,  that  whereas  my  inclination  heretofore  led  me  to 
love  him,  his  conduct  in  office,  confirmed  to  me  by  Lord  Comwallis's 
approbation,  entitles  him  to  my  sincere  and  hearty  esteem ;  and  this 
sentiment  assuredly  will  last. 

Edward  Hay,  Esq. 

Bwrke  to  Francis. 

January  3,  1788. 

I  thank  you  for  the  memorandum  you  have  sent  me  of  a  day 
which  (by  the  aid  of  enemies,  to  whom  a  man  often  owes  as  much 
as  to  his  friends)  has  been  the  crown  of  your  life.  I  have  not  done 
a  great  deal.  My  first  days  here  were,  at  best,  days  of  recovery. 
Some  avocation :  and  a  little  yielded  to  the  surfeit  of  one  thing ; 
which,  after  so  many  years,  does  inevitably  cause  moments  of 
nausea.  However,  I  have  read  most  attentively  the  first  volume  of 
the  Renigpore  [?]  Memoirs  (there  are  three  in  all ;  I  have  not  seen  the 
two  last),  and  have  so  noted  it  as  to  make  an  index  to  it  a  very 


1788]  BUEKE  AND  FOX.  357 

easy  work.  Oh  -what  an  affair  !  I  am  clear  that  I  must  debate  upon 
that,  for  it  has  stuff  in  it  that  will,  if  anything,  work  upon  the 
popular  sense.  But  how  to  do  this  without  making  a  monstrous 
and  disproportioned  member  I  know  not.  At  any  rate  it  must  be 
done,  and  done  early.  We  cannot  risk  the  postponing  it.  It  goes 
fall  to  the  bribery  and  pecuniary  corruption  in  his  sale  of  these 
provinces  to  Davy  through  Genega  Govind  Sing.  If  you  cannot 
come  down  hither,  I  hope  to  see  you  at  breakfast  in  Gerrard 
Street  on  Tuesday  morning. 
Adieu.    God  send  us  a  good  deliverance. 

The  following  from  Burke  (apparently  1788)  is  inter- 
esting as  showing  the  generous  nature  of  the  writer,  and 
his  desire  to  place  Francis  and  Fox,  who  never  were  very 
cordial,  on  favourable  terms  with  each  other. 

It  was  with  unmixed  pleasure  that  I  heard  Mr.  Pox  the  other 
day  do  justice  to  my  friend,  by  owning  the  information  he  had,  and 
the  wisdom  he  might  have  gained,  had  he  had  such  a  flapper  at  his 
elbow  in  his  most  high  and  palmy  days.  '  I  have  sucked  manj' 
brains  in  my  time  (he  said),  and  seldom  found  more  to  reward  me. 
Few  men  say  so  much  in  so  few  words.'  'Aye,  sir,'  I  replied, 
'  multum  in parvo  :  his  style  has  no  gummy  flesh  about  it.'  But  I 
must  not  enlarge ;  for  I  am  so  much  yours,  and  have  so  much  of 
yours,  that  your  triumphs  puff  me  up  as  with  a  sense  of  personal 
merit.  Still  I  may  allow  myself  the  more  satisfaction  in  finding  that 
Mr.  Pox  acknowledges  your  value  ;  as  I  know  he  has  earwigs  about 
him,  who  buz  in  his  ears  all  the  pitiful  calumnies  that  a  Hastings 
or  a  B.  and  Co.  have  deluged  the  town  with  since  your  return  from 
India ;  and  I  feared  the  fatal  facility  of  his  temper,  which  yields  to 
proximity  rather  than  be  at  the  trouble  of  examining  and  detecting. 

April  13,  1788.' 
What  became  of  you  after  we  were  separated  by  the  crowd  of 
pickpockets  ?  Though  I  was  almost  jostled  to  death,  they  got 
nothing  from  me  ;  my  pockets  were  indeed  turned  inside  out,  but 
there  was  nothing  in  them.  I  hope  you  suffered  nothing.  Courtney 
and  I  escaped  into  the  Duke  of  Portland's  coach.  I  don't  know 
when  the  Duke  of  P.  goes  out  of  town.  I  have  spoken  to  him  of 
them  sundry  times.     But  as  they  are  of  your  clan  you  ought  to  be 


'  Day  after  Lord  John  Townshend  waa  chaired. 
VOL.  II.  S 


258  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1788 

the  presenter.     They  and  Harwood  are  fine  feHows,  and  finely  acted 

their  part.     How  are  you  after  this  bustle  ?     I  write  as  supposing 

you  in  Harley  Street. 

How  are  the  ladies  ? 

September  14,  1788. 

I  agree  with  you  entirely  that  Hastings's  paper  in  approbation  of 
himself  is  just  what  we  could  wish,  and  that  nothing  is  wanting-  to 
the  full  perfection  and  value  of  the  service  but  that  he  should  pro- 
duce this  certificate  of  his  good  behaviour  at  the  trial.  I  really  am 
of  opinion  that  his  counsel  will  be  for  producing  it  in  time  and 
place,  but  it  would  be  material  to  us  that  it  should  appear  early ; 
for  which  reason,  I  think,  we  ought  to  make  some  early  manoeuvre 
in  Westminster  Hall  to  draw  it  from  them  ;  or  if  a  copy  has  been 
sent  to  the  India  House,  to  move  for  its  production. 

As  to  your  correspondent  in  India,  I  believe  he  wishes  ill  to 
Hastings,  not  well  to  the  cause  ;  and  that,  except  what  he  has  fur- 
nished in  the  course  of  his  own  defence,  we  shall  never  get  another 
word  from  him.  Scott  says  that  his  friend  and  deputy,  Cowper, 
was  the  chief  manager  in  procuring  signatures  to  this  certificate. 
It  may  be  true,  though  Scott  affirms  it.  I  shall  easily  believe  any- 
thing of  the  politics  of  that  set.  I  don't  think  much  better  of  old 
Fowke  than  of  them,  or  of  young  Fowke.  Sir  John  Day  is  a  good- 
natured  man,  and  of  better  principles.  But  I  must  always  reserve 
my  opinion  of  his  intelligence  until  I  see  it.  Hitherto  he  has  con- 
cealed what  he  knew,  or  was  absolutely  ignorant  of  every  transaction 
in  Bengal. 

Ton  are  certainly  in  the  right  not  to  precipitate  anything  rela- 
tive to  the  certificate.  It  will  be  time  enough  to  do  anything  when 
parliament  meets.  When  is  that  to  be  ?  I  shall  not  wholly  throw 
away  all  my  time,  though  to-morrow  I  set  off'  on  an  excursion  to 
Cheshire.  I  have  looked  over  some  papers  with  attention,  and 
shall  prepare  practically  and  vigorously  when  I  return.  I  am,  with 
the  best  regards  of  Mrs.  and  this  family, 

Ever  truly  yours, 

Edm.  Bueke, 

I  cannot  tell  to  whom  the  following  was  addressed  by 
Francis ;  probably  his  old  schoolmaster  Dr.  Thicknesse. 
The  '  dehcate  subject '  was  no  doubt  the  King's  insanity. 

Mai-eh  9,  1789. 
My  dear  Sir, — I  beg  of  you  to  have  the  charity  to  believe  that  I 
am  utterly  incapable  of  forgetting  or  neglecting  you.    The  truth  is, 


1789]  ILLNESS  OF  THE  KINa.  259 

that  for  the  last  three  months  I  have  deserted  all  my  correspond- 
ents, and  literally  written  to  nobody.  I  do  not  mean  to  affirm  that 
every  moment  of  my  life  has  been  too  much  occupied ;  but  thinkins- 
it  rather  imprudent,  if  not  dangerous,  to  mention  the  only  subject 
which  I  knew  was  uppermost  in  the  minds  of  all  persons  at  a  dis- 
tance from  the  capital,  I  determined  not  to  write  at  all.  Even  at 
this  moment,  private  opinions  here  are  so  divided  ;  so  positive  are 
the  assertions,  yet  so  suspicious  are  the  appearances  ;  the  facts  so 
difficult  to  be  ascertained,  and  all  regular  evidence  so  industriously 
withheld,  or  so  resolutely  refused  (as  if  no  evidence  were  necessary), 
that,  entre  nous,  I  scarce  know  what  to  think,  certainly  not  what  to 
say,  on  so  delicate  a  subject.  To-morrow,  I  conclude  (for  it  cannot 
possibly  be  deferred  any  longer),  we  shall  know  with  certainty  what 
we  have  to  trust  to.  If  there  be  a  regency,  it  must  be  vested  in  the 
Prince  of  Wales  ;  for  I  believe  the  boldest  man  in  the  world  will 
tremble  at  the  thought  of  dividing  Ireland  from  Great  Britain.  If 
the  King  therefore  does  not  reassume  the  government  in  his  own 
person,  you  may  be  perfectly  sure  that  his  incapacity  continues. 
How  the  conduct  of  the  Irish  parliament  should  have  contributed  to 
the  recovery  of  Ms  -majesty  1  do  not  comprehend  ;  but  I  do  verily 
believe  that  it  has  hurried  the  declaration  of  it.  The  situation 
of  affairs  began  to  be  too  critical  to  his  ministers,  to  permit  them 
to  permit  him  to  be  incapable  any  longer. 

I  condole  with  Catherine  on  the  fatal  events  which  have  happened 
in  her  family.  An  Hindoo  lady  who  had  lost  her  cow  would  have 
hanged  herself  out  of  hand.  But  Catherine,  I  trust,  is  too  good  a 
Christian  to  follow  such  courses.  As  to  your  man,  he  may  drown 
himself  as  soon  as  he  pleases.  I  care  not  what  becomes  of  him. 
But  as  to  the  fish  that  have  perished  in  your  pond,  permit  me  to 
console  you  by  insinuating  that  Philip  and  I  are  the  only  persons 
who  suffer  materially  by  their  demise.  I  apprehend,  you  never 
dragged  that  reservoir  but  when  we  were  of  the  party. 

I  saw  your  brother  on  Saturday,  looking  well  and  in  high  spirits. 
One  would  think  he  had  taken  a  final  resolution  to  be  immortal.  I 
did  all  I  could  with  prudence  to  prevent  a  pubhc  rupture  between 
him  and  his  son  :  but  cursed,  I  fear,  are  the  peacemakers.  They  both 
begin  to  distrust  me.  So  you  may  be  quite  sure  I  shall  never  meddle 
with  them  any  more.  What  makes  their  quarrelling  the  more  ab- 
surd is  their  marvellous  personal  resemblance  to  each  other.  It 
looks  like  a  contest  between  a  man  and  his  shadow. 

My  son  is  still  at  Cambridge.  The  rest  of  my  family  desire 
nothing  so  much  as  to  be  better  acquainted  with  you. 

And  so,  my  dear  sir,  farewell.     I  do  not  despair  of  the  happiaess 

s  2 


260  MEMOIES  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1789 

of  seeing  you  in  July  or  August.     "Why  do  you  talk  of  saving  fifty 
shillings  ?    How  can  you  do  without  a  man  servant? 

The  next  letter  is  from  old  Joseph  Fowke,  now  living 
and  grumbhag  on  his  Company's  pension  in  England. 

Malmsbury,  September  7,  1789, 

I  hare  been  made  happy  by  the  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  28th 
of  last  month,  which  has  done  me  more  good  than  anything  the 
doctor  could  prescribe  for  me.  There  is  no  time  of  my  life  in  which 
I  have  been  so  totally  debarred  from  intellectual  food  as  at  present, 
and  therefore  I  am  glad  to  catch  a  few  of  your  electrical  sparks  as 
they  fly  from  you  upon  the  road,  and  I  wish  I  was  situated  nearer 
to  you,  that  I  might  catch  a  few  more  of  them. 

Of  five  hundred  people  who  might  read  the  speech  of  Hasting.s, 
not  ten  would  take  notice  of  the  palpable  nonsense  you  have 
pointed  out.  The  generality  of  readers  dwell  upon  the  single  part 
which  first  strikes,  and  look  for  nothing  farther ;  they  greedily 
seize  upon  what  they  do  understand,  to  make  themselves  amends 
for  what  they  do  not  understand.  The  crowd  suppose  the  writer 
out  of  their  refach  when  he  writes  nonsense.  I  remember 
Samuel  Johnson  remarking  that  in  the  early  part  of  his 
studies  he  used  always  to  think  the  fault  lay  in  himself  when  he 
did  not  understand  a  passage,  but  at  length,  after  many  dis- 
couragements, he  discovered  that  his  author  did  not  understand 
himself;  and,  however  strange  it  may  appear,  it  is  certain  that  very 
few  do  understand  themselves,  and  particularly  in  metaphysical 
subjects.  The  multitude  exclaim  against  a  long  and  tedious  trial, 
and  when  they  are  tired  of  hearing  and  examining,  they  pass  over 
at  once  to  the  side  of  the  prisoner,  forget  the  past  volume  of  evidence, 
and  pronounce  him  innocent.  When  I  used  formerly  to  speak 
slightingly  and  contemptibly  of  the  writings  of  Hastings,  you 
desired  me  to  consider  what  a  bad  cause  he  had  to  defend,  whigh 
would  have  been  a  good  apology  for  any  other  man  ;  but  applies  so 
ill  to  him,  that  I  sincerely  believe  he  would  be  utterly  incapable  of 
defending  a  good  cause,  as  all  his  talents  lie  on  the  wrong  side. 
'  Our  business  in  India  is  to  redress  existing  evils  '  has  been  the 
cant  for  m.any  years,  and  therefore  as  government  says  nothing  and 
does  nothing,  it  is  no  wonder  that  the  Whites  in  Bengal  should  be 
silent ;  but  Mr.  Collins  is  much  mistaken  if  he  thinks  that  the 
names  of  Mr.  Hastings  and  his  associates  are  forgotten  among  the 
Blacks  ;  their  groans  reach  me  at  Malmsbury,  and  will  be  heard  as 


.^i>. 


1789]  FOWKE  ON  INDIAN  AFFAIRS.  261 

long  as  Tve  tave  a  foot  of  ground  in  India.  Salt  conld  not  rise  to 
seven  hundred  rupees  per  maund  as  it  has  done  at  Calcutta,  and  the 
batta  upon  gold  Mohurs  to  near  two  rupees  each,  without  being  at- 
tended with  the  most  serious  ill  consequences.  The  last  mischief 
the  supreme  Court  of  Judicature  have  undertaken  to  reform,  who 
imagine  they  have  remedied  the  evil,  but  are  miserably  deceived. 
Amidst  all  my  distractions  and  base  treatment  I  have  received  in 
England,  I  feel  the  greatest  possible  satisfaction  in  the  account  my 
high-spirited  daughter  Sophia  has  given  me  of  the  flattering  at- 
tention paid  to  her  by  the  first  and  best  part  of  the  natives  both  at 
Madras  and  Calcutta,  who  waited  upon  her  with  splendid  offerings 
as  tokens  of  their  grateful  remembrance  of  my  feeble  attempts  to  do 
them  service,  which  she  with  too  much  delicacy  put  from  her.  In 
better  times  her  singular  mortifications  and  disappointments  would 
add  weight  to  my  claims  upon  the  East  India  Company,  but  whether 
they  ever  operate  or  not,  the  contemplation  of  her  great  and  trans- 
cendent virtues  will  always  afford  a  powerful  relief  to  me  in  my 
misfortunes. 

That  a  wise  and  virtuous  man,  engaged  in  public  affairs,  ought  as 
you  say  to  trouble  himself  very  little  about  fame  and  popularity,  as 
objects  of  pursuit,  is  an  incontestible  aphorism  ;  and  I  am  not  sure 
that  he  ought  to  trouble  himself  at  all.  The  approbation  of  good 
and  honourable  men  every  person  ought  to  set  a  high  value  upon, 
but  he  should  go  no  farther.  I  would  rather  have  the  testimony  of 
Lord  Macartney  than  that  of  seven-eighths  of  the  kingdom  beside. 
The  profanum  vulgus  of  Horace,  which  includes  the  rich  and  the 
poor,  the  great  and  the  little  vulgar,  and  which  no  one  has  ever 
interpreted  rightly  except  Cowley,  are  to  be  contemned.  Truth 
must  for  ever  stand,  because  it  is  by  truth  alone  we  can  approximate 
the  Deity ;  and  although  I  am  wilhng  to  allow  that  in  the  weak 
government  of  man  some  deviations  are  necessary,  yet  I  am  certain 
modern  politicians  are  too  ready  in  diificult  situations  to  admit  their 
necessity.  The  courage  which  virtue  inspires,  if  left  to  operate 
freely,  would  generally  attain  its  end  better  than  all  the  sly  shuffling 
contrivances  which  are  commonly  put  in  practice.  When  virtue 
retreats  it  seldom  or  ever  rallies,  and  then  villainy  gains  an  ascend- 
ancy which  nothing  can  cure  but  itself.  The  future  history  of  India 
will  prove  the  truth  of  my  reflections. 

I  envy  you  the  company  of  the  Duke  of  Portland,  not  as  Duke  of 
Portland,  but  as  an  honest  man  who  is  high  above  all  titles.  I  am 
arrived  at  an  age  which  levels  all  distinctions  among  men.  Kings, 
princes,  nobles,  are  all  alike  to  me ;  I  set  no  value  upon  them  apart 
from  their  virtues ;  and  if  they  are  possessed  of  great  qualities  I 


263  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1789 

would  rather  haye  them  without  their  trappings  for  my  own  parti^ 
cular  use  and  enjoyment. 

I  have  lodged  my  memorial  with  the  Board  of  Control,  agreeably 
to  your  counsel,  but  as  they  have  adjourned  to  October  they  cannot 
take  it  into  consideration  before  that  time.  I  will  acquaint  you 
with  their  determination  as  soon  as  I  receive  notice  of  it.  I  am 
perfectly  indifferent  about  the  event,  though  I  confess  I  am  im- 
patient from  curiosity  to  know  what  they  will  say. 

I  am  surprised  that  Parker  never  found  his  way  to  your  study.  He 
is,  in  my  estimation,  an  able  writer,  and  I  wish  he  were  employed 
to  continue  the  History  of  India  from  the  date  at  which  he  left  off. 

Whenever  an  opportunity  offers  I  beg  you  will  make  my  sincere 
compliments  to  Mr.  Burke.  I  entertain  a  great  partiality  for  him, 
and  he  is  one  of  very  few  whose  good  opinion  I  should  be  proud  of 

I  would  not  venture  to  write  so  long  a  letter  to  you  but  in 
vacation  time,  if  any  vacation  you  ever  have,  which  I  much  doabt ; 
it  is  next  to  impossible  that  so  active  a  mind  as  yours  can  be  at 
rest.     Tour  labours  merit  reward. 

Three  years  ago  I  read  Neckar's  book  on  finance.  The  perusal 
of  it  satisfied  me  that  the  French  government  was  falling  into  ruins, 
and  that  Neckar  was  a  very  improper  person  to  prevent  it.  He 
appeared  to  me  to  be  a  man  that  would  attempt  great  things  at  an 
improper  season,  and  without  the  vigour  necessary  to  carry  them 
into  execution.  I  now  think  that  he  will  break  his  own  heart,  or 
that  the  nation  will  break  it  for  him. 

I  perceive  a  sensible  difference  in  the  state  of  my  health  within  a 
few  days  past.  I  have  walked  two  miles  without  tiring,  and  speak 
as  articulately  as  ever.  I  have  done,  for  a  little  while  ;  but  still  I  feel 
that  I  shall  never  be  the  same  man  I  was  before  August  1  last.  I 
can  bear  little  application  to  the  desk  ;  however,  upon  the  whole  I 
am  miraculously  recovered,  considering  my  time  of  life. 

Farewell. 

Your  faithful  and  obedient  servant, 

Joseph  Fowke. 

Burhe  to  Francis. 

November  1789. 

It  is  but  just  this  moment,  that  thinking  of  you  about  something 
else,  I  recollect  that  I  have  not  answered  your  very  kind  and  good- 
natured  note  about  my  brother.  He,  has  had,  indeed,  a  pretty  sharp 
bout,  or  rather  two,  of  an  illness  in  which  his  lungs  were  attacked. 
We  thought  him  thoroughly  recovered,  when  he  was  attacked  a 
second  time  ;  and  though  without  fever,  he  was  more  reduced  than 
he  was  by  the  first  fit,  when  there  was  a  very  high  fever.     But, 


1789]  COBRESPOJSIDENCE  WITH  BURKE.  263 

thank  God,  lie  is  no-w  well  recovered  of  the  second,  and  so  much  so 
that  we  think  him  in.  no  sort  of  danger  of  a  relapse.  He  gathers 
strength  apace — yet  we  do  not  think  it  quite  advisable  to  let  him  go 
to  town  for  a  few  days.  He  thanks  you  heartily,  as  we  do,  for  your 
kind  solicitude  about  him.  As  to  the  rest  of  us,  we  have  had 
severally  our  colds,  of  which  we  are  joiutly  and  severally  recovering. 
Mine  was  only  one  of  my  old  hoarsenesses  ;  but  it  has  stuck  to  me 
for  some  days.  To  say  a  word — it  shall  be  but  a  word — of  business. 
I  wish  you  would  see  Pox  and  Sheridan,  and  try  to  persuade  them 
if  possible  to  observe  on  our  evidence — to  settle  their  parts  and  to 
let  a  brief  be  prepared  for  them  in  this  our  strange  devihsh  business. 
Every  step  taken  in  Prance  is  a  new  prodigy.  The  only  sensible  thing 
I  have  seen  is  the  answer  of  the  Prench  ministers  to  the  address  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  provisions  in  consequence  of  Mirabeau's 
motion.  Nothing,  however,  can  show  so  irresistibly  the  general 
impotence  of  all  parties  and  the  utter  dissolution  of  their  government, 
which  is  a  great  dissolvment,  as  great  as  the  general  menstruum, 
but  is  good  for  nothing  else.  What  think  you  of  the  robbery  of 
one  of  their  own  orders,  by  way  of  resources.  Dii  meliora  piis  erro- 
remque  hostibus  ilium  !  Adieu,  may  we  all  have  sound  minds — 
kings  and  subjects.  It  will  do  us  no  harm.  Our  best  love  to  your 
fireside. 

Tours  most  truly, 

Edm.  Bueke. 

Burke  to  Francis. 

December  1789. 

I  should  be  ashamed  of  having  given  you  or  myself  any  great 
trouble  upon  the  subject  of  your  last  letter,  butyou  said  that  a  friend 
of  yours  had  some  idea  of  being  concerned  in  the  projected  bank ; 
and  though  we  are  driven  from  our  public  cares,  the  rights  of  private 
friendship  have  yet  some  pleasant  demands  upon  us.  The  affairs 
both  of  Prance  and  England  are  rendered  little  more  to  us  than  a 
matter  of  curiosity.  With  the  one  our  duty  gives  us  no  concern ;  with 
the  other  we  are  not  suffered  to  intermeddle  with  any  effect  or  any 
credit ;  and  after  all,  perhaps  the  follies  of  France,  by  which  we  are 
not  yet  affected,  may  employ  one's  curiosity  more  pleasantly  and  as 
usefully  as  the  depravity  of  England,  which  is  more  calculated  to 
give  us  pain,  but  which  we  can  do  as  little  to  correct  as  we  can  the 
folly  of  our  neighbouring  nation. 

I  agree  with  you,  no  power  in  our  line  of  politics  can  be  got  to  stir 
unless  assured  of  a  speedy  end  to  this  trial.  It  is  certainly  so 
—hut  let  me  add,  that  he  will  move  as  little  if  he  had  such  an  as- 
surance.    Is  any  one  ready  to  give  that  support  upon  that  declara- 


264  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRAIsCIS.  [1789 

tion  ?  If  thej  are  not,  what  do  we  get  by  making  it  ?  Nothing, 
certainly  ;  but  we  lose  a  great  deal  in  point  of  credit.  Wbilst  we' 
proceeded  with  little  difficulty  they  gave  us  no  assistance,  neither 
did  we  want  it.  The  moment  we  find  an  obstacle,  they  refuse  to 
take  a  single  step  to  help  us  forward.  The  delaj's  we  meet  with  are 
our  subject  of  complaint,  and  by  their  denying  us  to  remove  them, 
they  more  than  indirectly  assert  that  we  ourselves  are  in  fault  for 
the  difficulties,  we  meet  with.  The  guilty  are  encouraged  to  chicane 
us  further,  by  the  hired  libels  with  which  they  darken  the  very  at- 
mosphere ;  and  by  the  countenance  and  protection  which  they 
receive  in  courts  of  justice,  and  the  verdicts  in  their  favour,  the 
public  voice  seems  to  be   against  us,  and  that  we   are   disowned  in 

appearance  by  those in  whose  name  we  prosecute.     This  is 

an  exigency,  and  calls  for  the  assistance  of  friends  and  partisans. 
What  is  the  conduct  of  our  pretended  friends  ?  '  Put  an  end  to  the 
trial ;  you  have  spun  it  out  too  long  ;  the  people  are  tired  of  it.' 
It  was  in  this  manner  the  trial  of  Sir  Thomas  Rumbold  was  got  rid 
of,  little  in  my  opinion  to  the  credit  of  the  nation,  and  those  in 
particular  who  got  rid  of  it  in  this  manner. 

I  have  done  with  that  sort  of  friends.     It  rests  only  with  me  in 
what  manner  I   am  to  conduct  myself  in  this   defeat  produced  by 
their  desertion  and  treachery  ;  and  upon  that  I  wish  your  opinion 
and  Windham's  (by  the  way,  I  wish  I  could  see  Windham).    I  under- 
stand that  Hastings's  people  intend  to  move  something  themselves 
in  the  House  of  Commons  which  may  tend  to  put  an  end  to  this 
business.     This  may  be  true,  and  their  conduct  seems  to  be  a  pre- 
liminary to  some  such  measures.     Now,  will  it  be  advisable  to  wait 
for  this  proceeding,  and  to  take   our  indications  from  what  may 
seem  the  temper  of  the  House  upon  it ;  or  shall  I,  first  laying  the 
affair  before  the  committee,  state  to  the  House  Mr.  Hastings's  com- 
plaint to  the  Lords  at  the  beginning  and  at  the  end  of  the  last 
sessions,  and  ask  their  direction  upon  the  conduct  which  we  ought 
to  hold  in  this  prosecution  ?     I  think  most  people  will  advise  me 
the  defensive.     It  is  not  my  own  opinion — but,  as  it  is  nearest  to 
deciding  nothing,  it  will,  I  imagine,  prevail.     But  this  deliberation 
cannot  be  protracted  beyond  a  very  few  days  ;  we  must  either  go 
on  in  our  old  way  or  propose  the  thing  ourselves  ;  this  is  all  that  is 
in  our  cliojce.     The  rest  depends  upon  the   enemy,  who  may  either 
bring  forward  this  motion  or  let  it  alone.     The  nonsuit,  if  we  are  to 
be  nonsuited,  must  be  the  deliberate  act  and  order  of  the  House. 
To  say  we  are  to  stop  at  the  bribery  charges  is  to  say  that  we 
consent  to  Hastings's  acquittal ;    for  as  he  pleads  the  exigencies  of 
the  Company  in  his  excuse — and  this  plea  if  not  rebutted  must  cer- 


1789]  SOCIAL  LITE  OF  FEAXCIS.  265 

tainly  be  accepted,  unless  we  show  how  lie  squandered  away  the 
Company's  treasure — we  do  not  meet  their  corrupt  prejudice  with 
the  advantages  we  ought.  I  know  well  enough  in  what  straits  I 
am — but  I  never  will  get  out  of  them  in  the  Rumbold  way.  See 
whether  any  of  the  parties  concerned  can  be  got  together.  Know 
as  exactly  as  you  can  how  Anstriither  proposes  to  open,  and  let  us 
have  the  syllabus  of  that  opening  and  our  evidence  ready  to  each 
point  in  that  syllabus.  I  could  wish  him  supported  in  the  opening, 
but  since  we  must  consult  brevity  it  will  be  enough  ;  and  by  sending 
the  brief,  syllabus,  and  heads  of  evidence  to  Fox  and  Sheridan,  we 
endeavour  to  awaken  them  to  some  sort  of  attention.  Nothing  is 
done  as  to  the  opening  of  Cheyt  Sing's  bribe,  or  the  note  present. 
Will  Adam  take  those,  or  who  will  ?  Fox  certainly  ought  to  take  the 
first,  and  Sheridan  the  second.  They  belong  to  them ;  or  suppose 
Grrey  did  it  ?  Adieu.  Adam  sees  now  and  then  some  of  the 
Ministerialists.  Can  he  divine  from  their  conversation  what  they 
mean  to  do  ? 

Of  Prancis's  private  life  during  this  long  portion  of 
his  parliamentary  career,  records  are  altogether  wanting. 
The  gossiping  memoranda  of  his  lady  are  too  irregular 
in  point  of  date,  and  evidently  too  defective  in  point  of 
accurate  recollection  of  particulars,  to  be  relied  on  to  fill 
up  the  gap.  He  appears  to  have  certainly  realised  one  of 
the  dreams  of  his  early  days,  by  becoming  a  '  man  of 
fashion,'  and  attaining  a  general  acquaintance  with  the 
higher  circles  of  society.  But  his  main  introduction  to 
these  was  no  doubt  political.  He  was  already  familiar 
with  the  circle  which  surrounded  the  Eegent,  with  Adam, 
Fitzpatrick,  Laurence,  and  especially  so  with  Lord  Palmer- 
ston,  father  of  the  late  statesman.  Windham's  diary  gives 
glimpses  of  the  company  to  be  met  with  at  his  house  at 
Sheen,  to  which  he  removed  from  Harley  Street  some 
time  before  1790. 

Francis  was  a  man  of  considerable  social  qualities, 
though  not,  perhaps,  in  the  highest  sense  of  the  words. 
He  was  distinguished  in  conversation.  But  he  was  better 
tnown  as  a  sayer  of  severe  and  sarcastic  things  than  for 


266  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1789 

any  display  of  the  more  genial  qualities  of  the  circle.^ 
He  had  the  merit  of  never  telling  long  stories,  says  his 
wife,  and  he  had  no  mercy  for  those  who  did.  In  his 
later  days,  it  was  reported  that  he  lost  for  a  time  the 
countenance  of  Carlton  House,  through  having  interrupted 
a  prosy  narrative  of  the  Eegent  with  an  impatient,  '  Well, 
sir,  well? '  on  which  the  Prince  prefaced  the  continuance 
of  his  narrative  with  the  words,  '  If  Sir  Philip  Francis  will 
allow  me  to  proceed.'  But  he  was  also  extremely  partial  to 
the  society  of  ladies,  and  appears  to  have  succeeded  in  it, 
so  far  as  success  can  be  predicated  of  an  elderly  aspirant. 
He  had  the  Irish  temperament,  with  a  good  deal  of  foreign 
polish  of  the  old  time — how  acquired  it  is  hard  to  say ; 
certainly  not  in  the  circle  of  Dr.  Francis  at  Bath,  or  that 
of  Calcraft  at  Ingress  ;  perhaps  through  his  early  diplo- 
matic associations.  Many  of  his  letters  to  women  have 
that  mixture  of  playfulness,  humour,  and  sentiment, 
which  is  said  to  be  particularly  captivating  to  them.  He 
had  also  that  peculiar  attraction  which  they  are  sometimes 
apt  to  find  in  one  who  is  feared  by  men,  and  reputed 
haughty  and  unyielding  among  them ;  but  who  shows 
himself  tractable  and  submissive  to  the  other  sex,  and 
eager  to  obtain  their  favour.  Among  the  latest  of  his 
MS.  remains  are  portions  of  correspondence  with  ladies  of 
fashion,  carried  on  in  a  tone  of  respectful  gallantry. 

Lord  Brougham,  after  describing  some  of  the  originaH- 
ties  of  Francis,  says  that  '  he  had  much  higher  qualities ; 

'  Lady  Francis  says  (speaking  again  of  a  much  later  period)  :  *  In  one  of  his 
fits  of  rudeness,  Sir  Philip  one  day  wallted  to  Carlton  House,  and  disdaining 
the  uaual  method  of  proceeding  knocked  loudly  at  the  door  lirith  a  large 
stick.  The  next  day  Colonel  McMahon,  the  Prince's  confidential  managing 
man,  met  Sir  Philip  in  the  street,  and  stopping  him  exclaimed  with  much 
earnestness,  "  Upon  my  word,  Francis,  you  must  try  to  keep  Sir  Philip  in 
order.  Do  you  know  he  has  been  knocking  at  the  Prince's  door  with  hia 
stick,  and  making  such  a  noise  because  he  was  not  admitted  that  we  thought 
we  should  never  get  him  away  ?  " ' 


1789]  QUAKEEL  WITH  SIR  R.   SUTTOjST,  267 

but  his  singularities  were  probably  what  chiefly  recom- 
mended him  in  society.'  But  Lord  Brougham  only 
knew  him  at  the  very  close  of  his  life,  when  even  the 
fame  of  his  more  shining  period  had  passed  away. 

As  a  frequenter  of  circles  such  as  these,  and  an  habitue 
of  Brookes's,  Francis  occasionally  drifted  pretty  far  into 
the  '  fast '  company  of  the  period.  The  following  extract 
from  Lady  Francis's  memoranda  refers,  in  the  first  instance, 
to  a  fracas  between  himself  and  Sir  Eichard  Sutton,  which 
seems  to  have  originated  in  the  debate  on  the  proceedings 
against  Impey  (April  16,  1788),  but  is  scantily  reported 
in  the  Parliamentary  history.  But  from  that  incident  the 
lady  diverges  to  the  general  subject  of  her  husband's  duel- 
ling experience  as  recorded  by  himself. 

'  Sir  Philip  was  no  duellist  on  principle,  or  rather 
for  want  of  it.  We  have  seen  that  he  had  once  been 
forced  into  one,  in  defence  of  aU  that  a  gentleman 
holds  most  dear — his  honour  and  character  for  truth. 
The  manner  in  which  Mr.  Hastings  attacked  him  on 
a  country  where  religion  among  the  Enghsh  was  only 
a  name,  and  that .  rarely  mentioned,  so  that  it  had  been 
said  that  some  of  the  principal  Hindoos  expressed  their 
surprise  on  a  clerical  establishment  being  formed  in 
India,  and  observed  :  "  Then  the  English  have  really  a 
rehgion  " — left  him  no  alternative  but  to  submit  to  the 
deepest  dye  of  infamy  that  social  men  can  be  taunted 
with  or  to  risk  his  life.  His  narrow  escape  from 
death,  and  long  sufferings  from  his  desperate  wound, 
made  him  unwilling  to  provoke  another,  but  never  made 
him  hesitate  when  honour  was  at  stake ;  and  he  was 
drawn  more  than  he  wished  into  affairs  of  this  nature, 
in  consequence  of  the  animosity  of  Mr.  Hastings  and 
his  supporters.  As  Sir  Philip  told  me  a  very  amusing 
story  of  one  of  these  adventures,  which  was  brought  on 


268  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1789 

by  another,  I  shall  relate  both  with  all  the  incidents  I  can 
remember,  only  regretting  that  I  cannot  do  this  verbatim 
as  I  heard  it  from  his  tongue,  with  his  usual  happy  use 
of  the  most  suitable  words.      During  Hastings'  trial,  I 
think  at  that  period  when  Sir  Elijah  Impey  was  accused  of 
the  judicial  murder  of  Nundcomar,  there  was  a  Notting- 
hamshire Baronet,  of  the  name  of  Sir  Eichard  Sutton, 
who  had  held  office  and  was  a  warm  hearty  man,  who 
hated  liberal  politics  from  his  heart,  and  was  an  intimate 
personal  friend  of  both  Hastings  and  Impey,  and  probably 
took  their   representations   of  Sir   Philip's  character  to 
be  just,  which  in  after  life  I  had  the  happiness  to  find 
was  quite  the  reverse.     This  gentleman,  in  the  warmth 
of  his   defence  of  the   accused,  not   only  repeated  the 
Chancellor   Thurlow's   wish   that   the   vessel  containing 
Francis,   Monson,  and  Clavering  had  been  lost  at  sea, 
but   added   some   personal  reflections    on    Francis  that 
he  thought  beyond   parliamentary  language.       He  had 
just  enquired  of  his  neighbour  the  name  of  his  accuser, 
who  was  a  stranger  to  him,  and   was  deliberating  in 
what  way  to  notice  the  attack,  when  a  strange  incident 
happened  in  the  House.     A  member  had  entered  the 
House  in  that  strange  state  of  intoxication  which  some 
men  are  liable  to,  when  wine  causes  a  kind  of  insanity 
rather  than  common  sottishness,  like  the   famous  Jack 
Fuller  20  years  after.      This  hero  directed  all  his  spleen 
against  the  Speaker  ;  he  marched  up  to  him  while  the 
House  was  engaged  in  watching  the  rising  storm  which 
seemed   coming   on   between  Sutton   and   Francis,  and 
without   giving    the    right   honourable    gentleman    any 
notice,  tried  to  eject  him  from   his   chair  in  the  most 
summary  way,  vi  et  armis.     The  Speaker  resisted    like 
Falstaff,    on  compulsion  ;    but  the  Bacchanal  pulled  so 
hard,  that  all   the   members  near  flew  to   the  rescuBj 


1789]  SCENE  IN   THE  HOUSE  OF  COMMONS.  269 

thinking  assassination  or  some  personal  injury  was  intended ; 
but  the  assailant  gravely  assuring  tliem  that  he  would 
do  the  Speaker  no  harm,  only  take  the  chair  himself, 
and  make  them  a  much  better  Speaker,  and  that  he  had 
no  notion  of  one  man  sitting  always  in  an  easy  chair 
while  the  others  had  nothing  but  narrow  benches  ;  that 
this  was  an  injustice  he  would  not  endure,  for  one, 
but  would  have  his  turn,  &c.  &c. ;  changed  their  appre- 
hensions into  merriment,  and  they  soon  found  out,  de 
quoi  il  s'agissait.  By  this  time  all  the  members  were  on 
their  legs,  and  the  House  in  an  uproar ;  all  order  was 
at  an  end ;  queries  from  one  part,  and  peals  of  laughter 
from  another,  were  all  that  was  heard ;  all  tried  to  get 
near  the  chair,  where  the  crowd  was  the  most  dense 
and  where  the  new  speaker  was  defending  himself  with 
much  gravity  and  logic.  Sir  Eichard's  speech  had  come 
to  an  abrupt  conclusion,  and  Mr.  Prancis,  finding  there 
was  no  chance  of  any  public  satisfaction  at  that  time, 
took  the  opportunity  of  all  having  quitted  their  seats 
to  step  across  the  house  to  the  Treasury  benches,  where 
Sir  Eichard  was  standing,  and  asked  him  upon  what 
footing  he  was  to  consider  his  personal  attack  on  himself? 
Sir  Eichard,  who  was  a  quiet  and  respectable  man  in 
private  life,  out  of  poHtics,  though  somewhat  stern  and 
fierce-looking  when  disturbed,  answered  him  that  he  had 
not  theleast  intention  or  thoughts  of  offending  him ; 
that  it  was  merely  on  public  grounds  he  spoke,  and  was 
sorry  if  he  had  ofiended  him ;  and  Sir  Philip,  though 
not  believing  him,  took  the  apology,  merely  adding, 
"  Then  I  hope,  sir,  I  shall  not  have  to  complain  of 
you  in  future  ?  "  "  Certainly  not,  sir,"  said  the  other, 
and  so  they  parted.  Francis  went  down  the  next  day 
to  East  Sheen,  and  on  Sunday,  while  happy  in  the 
company  of   his  then    young    and    promising    family, 


270  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP   FRANCIS,  [1789 

particularly  Elizabeth  and  Harriet,  who  were  just  rising 
into  womanhood,  and  equally  distinguished  for  beauty 
of  person  and  mental  endowments,  a  friend  came  iu  all 
haste  from  town,  to  give  him  the  pleasant  intelligence 
that  Sir  E's.  speech  was  in  all  the  papers,  and  in  even 
more  violent  language  than  he  had  used  in  the  house ; 
that  Sir  E.  had  made  charges  against  him,  Francis, 
which  remained  uncontradicted  and  unatoned  for. 
Francis,  after  a  few  moments'  consideration,  took  his  line 
of  conduct,  and,  begging  his  friend  to  remain  with  his 
family  to  guard  them  from  any  alarm,  he  returned  alone 
in  his  carriage  to  town,  not  wishing,  as  his  friend  was  a 
family  man,  to  involve  him  in  what  might  prove  a 
disagreeable  business.  In  London  he  had  many  acquaint- 
ances who  desired  no  better  amusement  than  keeping 
their  hands  in  practice  either  as  principal  or  second 
in  a  meeting  at  Chalk  Farm,  but  on  calling  on  these 
fire-eaters  he  could  not  find  one  at  home,  or  able  to 
assist  him.  He  then  proceeded  to  the  club-houses,  and  at 
Brookes's  the  only  person  he  met  was  Captain  Macnamara 
of  the  navy,  afterwards  so  well  known  by  the  famous 
duel  with  Col.  Montgomery  about  their  dogs,  while 
quarrelhng  in  the  Park.  Captain  M.  thought  himself 
cavalierly  treated  by  the  Colonel,  one  of  the  finest 
gentlemen  and  handsomest  men  in  London ;  this  the 
gallant  son  of  Neptune  could  not  brook ;  a  challenge 
ensued ;  and  the  next  morning  by  seven  o'clock  Mont- 
gomery was  a  corpse.  Mr.  Francis  was  at  the  time  now 
in  question  very  slightly  acquainted  with  Macnamara, 
but  finding  himself  tete-k-tcte  with  him  he  mentioned 
his  dilemma,  when  the  naval  hero  immediately  offered 
his  services,  for,  he  observed,  not  an  hour  should  be 
lost  in  vindicating  honour.  Francis  was  at  least  sure 
that  his  new  friend  would  not  compromise  him,  to  avoid 


1789]  DUEL  OF  MACNAMARA  AND  ASTON.  271 

coming  to  extremities  ;  he  therefore  sat  down  and  wrote 
the  words  that  he  wished  to  appear  the  next  day  in 
the  papers  which  had  reported  Sutton's  speech.  This 
paragraph,  which  disavowed  the  offensive  expressions, 
and  all  purpose  of  casting  the  slightest  imputation  on  Mr. 
Francis,  he  wished  to  have  with  Sir  Eichard's  signature, 
and  sent  it  to  him  by  Captain  Macnamara  for  that  purpose, 
at  the  same  time  informing  him  that  it  would  appear 
in  the  papers  that  had  contained  the  report  complained 
of.  This  at  first  appeared  rather  unpalatable  to  the 
baronet,  but  Captain  Macnamara  was  a  very  firm  and 
gentlemanly  man,  and  at  length  succeeded  in  convincing 
him  that  he  had  been  deceived  in  the  estimation  he  had 
formed  of  Mr.  Francis's  character,  and  that  he  really 
owed  him  reparation ;  on  which  he  signed  the  paragraph, 
which  appeared  in  the  newspapers ;  and  Mr.  Francis 
felt  very  well  satisfied  with  the  conduct  of  his  ambassador, 
who  had  brought  the  affair  to  an  amicable  termination 
and  yet  enabled  him  to  vindicate  his  honour.  But 
the  consequence  of  this  little  negociation  was,  that  not 
long  after  Mr,  Francis  was  drawn  into  an  actual  duel, 
though  not  as  a  principal.  Harvey  Aston  had  some  dimeU 
with  Captain  Macnamara,  and  being  a  celebrated  duelhst, 
as  was  well  known,  called  him  out ;  the  latter  was  not 
a  man  to  decline  such  an  invitation.  I  believe  that 
he  was  purely  aggrieved,  for  Mr.  Harvey  Aston's  way  of 
atoning  for  an  injury  was  to  challenge  the  injured  man  ; 
and  Sir  Philip  said,  after  numerous  duels,  in  all  of  which 
he  was  the  aggressor  and  escaped,  at  last  he  was  engaged 
in  one  where  he  was  in  the  right,  and  fell.  Sir  Philip 
related  this  when  speaking  about  the  old  custom  of 
trial  by  combat.  This  rencontre  was,  it  seems,  one  of 
Mr.  Aston's  lucky  duels,  but  the  termination  of  it  was 
owing  to  an  odd  incident.     Captain  Macnamara,  on  re- 


272  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1789 

ceiving  tlie  challenge,  remembering  the  service  he  had 
lately  rendered  Mr.  Francis,  immediately  applied  to 
hma,  nor  could  he  in  justice  refuse  to  act  as  his  second. 
I  forget  the  name  of  Mr.  Aston's,  but  he  was  one  of  his 
fashionable  friends,  and  to  do  him  justice  he  seemed 
inclined  to  join  ri"ancis  in  wishing  to  reconcile  the 
belligerent  powers,  but  that  he  found  impossible ;  and 
on  Sunday,  one  fine  summer  morning,  the  hostile  parties 
met  in  a  field  near  a  little  village  at  some  distance  from 
town,  for  they  dared  not  stop  nearer,  as  they  had  some 
reason  to  fear  their  intentions  had  got  out,  and  they 
knew  that  Chalk  Farm  arid  other  favourite  spots  might 
not  be  safe.  They  took  possession,  therefore,  of  the 
corner  of  a  field  protected  by  high  quick  hedges.  Before 
another  attempt  to  pacify  the  combatants  had'  fafied, 
and  the  necessary  preliminaries  had  taken  place,  the 
day  was  so  far  advanced  that  the  bells  from  the  village 
church  near  began  chiming  for  the  service  of  the 
morning,  which  perhaps  hurried  the  gentlemen,  for 
though  both  Avere  dead  shots,  a  brace  of  pistols  was 
discharged  on  each  side  without  effect.  Both  being 
still  unsatisfied,  they  called  to  their  seconds  to  reload, 
which  they  were  unwillingly  going  to  do  when  a  voice 
from  behind  the  hedge  called  out,  "  Stop,  gentlemen,  I 
cannot  allow  this  business  to  proceed  any  fm-ther." 
On  looking  to  see  from  whom  the  voice^  proceeded,  to 
their  great  surprise  the  clergyman  of  the  parish,  in  his 
canonicals,  attended  by  his  congregation,  appeared  through 
every  aperture  in  the  hedge,  which  was  in  fact  fined 
with  faces,  wMch  had  been  stationary  there  during  the 
whole  proceeding,  to  see  the  upshot  and  probable  down- 
fall of  at  least  one  of  the  party.  In  vain  the  bells  had 
been  impatiently  rmging  for  the  last  half  hour,  not  one 
would  move  from  the  interesting  spot,  or  spoil  the  sport. 


1789]  DUEL  OF  MACNAMARA  AND  ASTON.  273 

The  Vicar,  after  issuing  his  injunction  to  stay  furthei* 
proceedings,  made  his  way  into  the  field  of  battle,  and 
very  pohtely  accosting  the  party,  said,  "  Gentlemen,  I 
saw  from  the  first  what  your  intentions  were,  and, 
making  allowances  for  the  feelings  of  men  of  honour, 
I  would  not  deprive  you  of  the  satisfaction  you  required  ; 
but  now  you  have  done  enough.  I  know  the  laws  of 
honour  as  well  as  any  of  you,  and  request  you  will 
give  me  your  words  that  this  affair  shall  end  here." 
The  gentlemen,  who  could  scarcely  keep  their  counte- 
nances at  meeting  with  so  chivalric  a  parson,  gave  him 
the  assurance  he  required,  and  Mr.  Harvey  Aston's  second 
said  to  Mr.  Francis,  "  To  tell  you  the  truth,  I  am  very  glad 
it  has  finished  as  it  has  ;  for  our  gentlemen  were  very 
likely  to  have  gone  on  till  one  fell,  and  it  would  not 
have  been  very  pleasant  to  bring  a  man  home  dead  to 
a  widow  and  six  children,  which  I  might  have  had  to 
do."  By  this  time  Macnamara  was  looking  at  his  watch, 
and  expressing  some  anxiety  at  finding  it  so  late.  "  Why," 
said  Francis,  "  we  shall  get  back  to  town  in  very  good 
time  for  the  Park  or  Gardens." — "  Yes,  but  my  dear  friend, 
I  have  a  carriage  waiting  for  me  at  the  inn  here ;  for 
the  fact  is,  that  I  have  another  httle  afiair  of  the  same 
nature  a  few  miles  further  off,  and  I  am  afraid  that  the 
other  party  will  have  to  wait  for  me,  which  has  always 
an  awkward  appearance  in  such  cases." — "Very  true! 
but  pray  am  I  to  accompany  you  ?" — "  I  am  sorry  to  say  I 
have  another  friend,  who  would  be  afiironted  if  I  were 
to  ask  any  one  else  as  second  in  this  affair,  and  I  am 
to  call  on  him  in  my  road,  and  if  I  disappoint  him  it 
will  probably  produce  a  third  meeting,  which  for  the 
pleasure  of  your  company  and  assistance  I  shall  not 
mind  if  you  will  be  my  friend ;  but  it  was  a  favour  I 
could  not  previously  ask,  having  been  of  so  little  service 

VOL.  II.  T 


274  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1789 

to  you." — "  My  dear  sir,  you  could  not  have  done  better  ; 
but  I  assure  you  I  have  not  the  least  wish  to  disappoint 
your  friend,  and  therefore  vsrill  take  the  carriage  we 
came  in  immediately  back  to  town,  as  you  have  another, 
in  which  I  hope  you  will  arrive  in  time  to  turn  the 
practice  of  this  morning  to  good  account." — "  So  we  parted," 
said  Sir  Philip,  "  quite  a  Vaimable,  he  assuring  me  that  it 
was  from  no  want  of  confidence  that  he  did  not  inform 
me  of  his  second  engagement,  but  as  he  might  have 
been  shot  previously  by  Aston  it  might  never  have  taken 
place,  and  there  would  have  been  no  use  in  palaver,  &c." 
This  was  the  man  that  a  set  of  young  coxcombs  of 
fashion  thought  to  bully  in  the  Park,  but  they  soon  found 
they  had  caught  a  Tartar.  Macnamara  was  brave  as 
his  sword  ;  "  but  I  took  (;are,"  added  Sir  Philip,  "  never  to 
incur  another  obligation  to  him,  being  pretty  certain 
of  the  way  in  which  I  should  have  been  called  on  to 
discharge  it.  By  this  means  I  escaped  being  a  party  to 
the  fatal  duel  he  had  with  Col.  Montgomery.' " 

I  have  faithfully  printed  the  amusing  gossip  of  the 
reminiscent ;  but  I  am  bound  to  add  that  I  have  not 
myself  discovered  any  record  of  the  curious  parliamentary 
scene  which  she  describes  at  the  beginning  of  it,  or  of  Sir 
Kichard  Sutton's  alleged  retractation,  in  such  newspapers 
of  the  day  as  I  have  consulted. 

This  is  the  most  convenient  period  for  noticing  another 
singular  episode  in  the  life  of  Francis.  The  reader  will 
remember  PhiUp  Eosenhagen,  his  early  intimate,  his 
supposed  ally  in  controversy  with  Samuel  Johnson,  and 
the  half-unfrocked  military  chaplain  whose  pranks  in 
Paris  amused  his  friend  during  his  visit  there  in  1773. 
Of  all  other  men — at  least  after  the  pubhcation  of  the 
collected  Letters — Eosenhagen  seems  to  have  been  the 
nearest  to  penetrating  the  secret  of  Junius,  and  to 
have  caused  Francis  the  greatest  alarm.     This  clerical 


1789]  ROSENHAGEN.  275 

scamp,  after  returning  to  England,  had  through  his 
convivial  qualities  made  his  way  into  the  society  of  the 
Prince  of  Wales ;  and- — if  there  be  any  truth  in  the 
following  story — was  solicited  in  vain  to  perform  the 
marriage  ceremony  between  him  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  in 
1787.  It  is  given  in  the  words  of  Lady  Francis.  I  can 
furnish  no  evidence  either  to  corroborate  or  refute  it. 

'  Eosenhagen  was  of  Danish  family,  but  educated  at 
one  of  our  Universities  and  ordained.  The  Francis's 
often  visited  the  Chandlers  at  Eichmond,  where  they  met 
Eosenhagen,  who  soon  made  himself  agreeable  to  them. 
He  was  full  of  amusing  stories,  extremely  witty,  and  had 
travelled  much.  He  was  an  excellent  whist-player,  and 
F.  appears  to  have  acquired  much  of  his  excellence  at  the 
game  from  him.  His  life  was  not  exactly  that  which 
would  suit  our  modern  evangelists.  When  chaplain  of  a 
regiment,  he  was  the  gayest  man  at  mess.  In  after  times 
Francis  met  him  in  Paris,  in  hat  and  feather,  silk  coat, 
red-heeled  shoes,  and  all  the  foppery  of  a  petit-mmtre. 
He  told  F.  that  he  mixed  in  the  best  society,  and  there- 
fore could  not  appear  in  the  dowdy  dress  of  an  English 
parson.  He  took  F.  to  his  lodgings,  up  a  hundred  steps, 
where  he  found  a  little  room  with  a  bed  in  it  that  neaiiy 
filled  it ;  the  remaining  space  was  occupied  by  a  chair  and 
a  box  containing  the  tenant's  wardrobe,  on  which  he 
seated  himself,  complimenting  his  visitor  with  the  honors 
of  the  chair,  and  telling  at  the  same  time  that  yesterday 

the  Duke  of occupied  it ;  the  day  before,  and  before, 

the  Marquis,  the  Compte,  the  Chevaher,  &c.  If  he  was  to 
be  believed,  half  the  nobility  of  France  had  ennobled  his 
bedroom  by  their  presence.  When  four  or  five  noblemen 
happened  to  meet  in  the  room,  he  said  they  had  to  sit 
round  the  bed,  but  they  knew  he  was  a  bird  of  passage, 
and  could  not  entertain  them  as  if  he  were  at  home.     At 

T   2 


276  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1789 

that  time  his  English  home  was  nothing  but  a  name. 
Speaking  the  French  language  well,  and  having  an  infinite 
fund  of  humour,  his  company  was  always  courted  both 
in  France  and  England.  He  discovered  that  F.  was 
Junius,  and  endeavoured  to  turn  the  discovery  to  some 
personal  account.  He  offered  to  let  Lord  North  into  the 
secret  on  condition  of  receiving  a  pension.  Lord  N. 
declined.  F.  got  information  of  the  negociation,  and 
fearing  he  would  not  be  able  to  baffle  Eosenhagen,  made 
an  advantageous  and  honourable  retreat.  How  Eosen- 
hagen made  his  peace  with  F.  does  not  appear,  but  E. 
left  F.  his  papers,  amongst  which  was  an  amusing  diary, 
too  personal  to  be  published.  There  is  also  a  curious 
correspondence  relating  to  the  marriage  of  the  Prince  of 
Wales  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert.  Colonel  Gardner,  the 
Prince's  private  secretary,  writes  the  first  letter,  asking 
E.  to  perform  the  ceremony.  E.  replies  that  it  would  be 
contrary  to  law  for  him  to  do  so,  and  if  done  would  be 
productive  of  important,  probably  disastrous,  consequences 
to  the  whole  nation.  The  Colonel  answers  that  the 
Prince  is  aware  of  all  that,  but  pledges  himself  to  keep 
the  matter  a  profound  secret,  and  that  the  Prince  will 
feel  bound  to  reward  E.  for  such  a  proof  of  his  attach- 
ment as  soon  as  the  means  are  in  his  power.  Eosenhagen, 
in  reply,  says  he  can  trust  implicitly  the  Prince's  promise 
of  secrecy,  but  he  dare  not  betray  the  duty  he  owes  to 
the  Prince  by  assisting  in  an  affair  that  might  bring  such 
serious  consequences  to  him.'  Lady  F.  says  there  were 
six  letters,  and  she  'believes  Eosenhagen  declined  the 
business  because  no  specific  offer  was  made  to  him,  and 
not  from  the  motives  stated  in  the  letters,  as  he  was 
daring  and  unscrupulous.  The  marriage  was  soon  after- 
wards performed  at  Devonshire  House,  in  presence  of  the 
Duchess,  Fox,^  and  other  friends  of  the  Prince.' 

'  So  says  the  lady. 


1789]      EOSENHAGEN  AND  THE  PRINCE  OF  WALES.        277 

'  It  is  believed,'  she  adds,  '  that  Eosenhagen  consulted 
Mr.  Francis  and  showed  him  the  correspondence,  at  the 
time  ;  which  confirms  our  opinion  that  no  cause  for  lasting 
dissatisfaction  existed  between  them.  Both  gentlemen 
were  in  hopes  that  an  impediment  would  arise  to  the  dan- 
gerous marriage  by  no  clergyman  being  found  who  would 
be  inconsiderate  enough  to  perform  the  ceremony  ;  and  it 
was  understood  the  lady,  whose  virtue  and  sense  of 
honour  were  undoubted,  and  who  had  hesitated  even  to 
accept  a  marriage  which,  had  the  Prince  succeeded  early 
to  the  throne  and  had  a  son  by  her,  might  have  placed 
her  by  his  side  on  it,  never  would  yield  except  the 
Prince's  honour  and  conscience  were  as  much  bound  as 
her  own,  by  a  marriage  according  to  the  forms  of  the 
Church  of  England  as  well  as  by  her  own  ;  and  that  each 
ceremony  was  to  be  performed  by  competent  ministers  of 
each  Church.  Difficult  as  these  terms  were,  they  were  per- 
formed aupied  de  la  lettre.  A  clergyman  was  found  in  the 
Church  of  England  who  viewed  the  affair  in  a  different  light.' 

It  is  unnecessary  to  caution  the  reader  against  accept- 
ing the  authenticity  of  much  of  this  story :  but,  as  regards 
Eosenhagen,  not  many  years  after  these  events  he  was  sent 
out  to  Ceylon,  then  a  recent  acquisition,  as  Archdeacon  of 
Colombo.  Such  was  the  care  then  taken  by  the  mother 
country  to  plant  the  religion  of  the  Church  of  England  in 
her  new  possessions.  Francis  has  preserved  a  transcript  of 
his  own  last  letter  to  him.  It  will  be  seen  that  this  letter, 
in  which  he  adopts  the  style  of  his  own  old  days  of 
license  in  writing  to  his  graceless  associate,  must  pro- 
bably have  reached  the  receiver  on  his  death-bed.^ 

'  His  death  is  reported  in  the  ohituary  to  the  OentlemarCs  Magazine,  1790, 
as  having  occurred  atColomho  in  September  1798.  It  is  curious  that  his  de- 
cease had  been  already  recorded  in  the  same  publication  in  1798.  '  Lately,  the 
Rev.  Philip  Rosenhagen,  &c.  A  report  was  at  one  time  industriously  circu- 
lated, but  without  foundation  except  to  flatter  his  vanity,  that  he  was  the 
author  of  the  letters  signed  Junius.'  It  must  be  left  to  conjecture  whether 
this  premature  insertion  was  a  mistake  or  a  mystification. 


278  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  [1789 

To  the  Bev.'  Philip  Rosenhagen,  at  Colombo. 

November  24,  1797. 

I  Have  -written  to  you  copiously  in  the  last  three  months,  particu- 
larly by  Mr.  Frederick  North,  who  by  this  time  I  hope  is  in  quiet 
possession  of  you,  and  of  his  government.  Observe,  if  you  please, 
that  there  is  very  little  comfort  in  writing  freely  to  a  divine,  who 
probably  has  quitted  this  world  without  going,  I  will  not  say  to  a 
better,  for  that  would  indicate  reward  without  desert,  but  to  any 
other  ;  and  that  I  am  not  at  all  ambitious  of  the  admiration  of  your 
administrators  or  as.signs.  I  have  given  Mr.  North  an  idea  of  your 
character  and  qualifications,  which  will  give  him  a  very  indifferent 
opinion  of  mine,  if  you  do  not  convince  him  by  an  unheard  of  exer- 
tion of  your  faculties,  that  you  are  the  Coryphseus  of  orthodox 
divines,  and  that  no  such  man  as  yourself  ever  set  his  foot  in 
Taprobane  before.  Now  I  have  done  my  duty  by  you,  so  leave  off 
your  boyish  tricks  and  make  your  fortune  rapidly,  that  you  may 
set  like  the  sun  with  an  enlarged  orb  ;  or  depart  in  a  blaze,  like  the 
great  enemy  of  your  religion.  As  for  me,  I  am  preparing  to  fight 
the  French  on  British  ground.  Pro  patrid  non  timidus  m,ori.  And 
such  a  country  too  !  But  so  much  greater  is  the  merit  of  those  who 
are  fools  enough  to  die  for  it.  If  you  should  happen  to  survive  me, 
as  I  know  you  will  if  you  can,  and  are  not  at  all  likely  to  fall  in 
battle  (I  don't  mean  bottle),  be  sure  you  do  justice  to  my  memory. 
To  save  myself  the  trouble  of  entering  iuto  any  political  details  with 
you,  I  send  you  herewith  two  little  pamphlets,  on  the  subject  of 
which  I  advise  you  not  to  engage  in  argument  with  Governor  North", 
but  drink  about,  study  the  compass,  and  always  take  care  to  shew 
him  that  God  has  given  you  grace  enough  to  be  of  his  Excellency's 
opinion.     Sio  itur  ad  episcopatimi. 

Everybody  whom  you  know  or  care  for  in  this  hemisphere  are 
well ;  but  as  none  of  us  expect  to  see  you  again,  we  are  endeavour- 
ing to  wean  our  affections  from  you,  and  to  fix  them  on  another 
parson — neither  Parson  Glass  nor  Parson  Home,  you  may  swear 
to  that ;  but  parsons  never  swear,  do  they  ?  Only  curse  a 
little  on  high  days,  in  a  Commination  or  Athanasian.  Oh  Philip 
Rosenhagen !  Philip  Rosenhagen  !  Tou  ruined  my  morals.  Tou 
followed  me  up  and  down  like  my  ill-angel,  and  I  am  no  more  the 
man  I  was  intended  for  than  the  Irishman  who  swore  he  was 
changed  at  nurse  and  had  never  a  day's  health  after,  from  being  as 
fine  a  child  as  ever  was  seen. 

George  Hanger  is  going  out  Adjutant-General  to  Colombo. 

Farewell, 
P.  F. 


1789]  GEORGE  THICKNESSE.  279' 

Francis  kept  up  an  occasional  correspondence  both 
with  his  old  master  George  Thicknesse,  who  died  in  1790, 
and  was  buried  in  Warmington  churchyard,  '  where  '  (to 
use  the  words  of  Francis)  '  the  wisest,  learnedest, 
quietest,  and  best  man  he  ever  knew  was  laid  '  (Nichol's 
'  Lit.  Anecdotes,'  ix.  255) ;  and  also  with  George's  brother, 
'  governor  '  Philip  Thicknesse,  of  eccentric  memory. 
Philip  Thicknesse  it  seems  embarked  in  the  Junian  con- 
troversy, having  written  in  the  newspapers  in  support  of 
the  authorship  of  Home,  and  was  answered  (as  Mr. 
Parkes  believed)  by  Francis  himself,  in  the  Gazetteer  of 
that  year,  a  paper  to  which  Francis  was  certainly  an  oc- 
casional contributor,  under  the  signature  '  Minor.'  He 
afterwards  republished  his  articles.  The  following  is  one 
among  a  few  letters  which  Francis  had  apparently  re- 
covered and  preserved,  to  his  early  friend  the  school- 
master. 

January  1,  1788. 
Dear  Sir, — I  send  you  enclosed  two  letters  from  your  brother,  by 
wMcb.  you  will  see  that  be  perseveres  stoutly  in  bis  goodwill  to  me. 
I  told  bim  yesterday  tbat  I  abandoned  tbe  whole  matter  to  your 
judgment ;  for,  God  knows,  my  opinion  of  Ms  is  not  without  alloy. 
On  second  thoughts,  however,  I  very  much  wish  tbat  you  would 
stifle  this  idea  at  its  birth,  and  tbat  you  will  do  so  by  an  effort  of 
authority.  As  you  are  his  brother,  it  is  very  fit  and  proper  that  he 
should  make  you  remember  it.  But  why  am  I  to  be  killed  with  his 
kindness  ?  I  cannot  help  laughing  when  I  think  how  long  he  has 
been  the  plague  of  your  life,  out  of  mere  brotherly  love  and  affection. 
At  all  events,  I  beseech  you  to  keep  me  out  of  his  book,  without 
letting  him  suspect  that  the  objection  comes  from  me.  Tou  will 
receive  two  pacquets  by  this  post. 

I  am,  dear  sir,  your  most  faithful  and 

Affectionate  humble  servant, 

P.  Feascis.' 

At  the  general  election  of  1790,  Francis  was  returned 
to  parliament  for  the  borough  of  Blechingley.    His  conduct 

'  Francis  composed  a  Latin  epitaph  for  Mr.  Thicknesse,  to  which  refer- 
ence is  made  in  a  subsequently  quoted  letter  of  Burke. 


280  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1790 

remained  much  the  same  as  in  the  former  parUament. 
Excluded  from  the  management  of  the  impeachment  of 
Hastings,  he  was  limited  to  the  business  of  observing  its 
course,  and  prompting  those  who  conducted  it.  But 
other  subjects  of  fresher  and  far  more  engrossing  interest 
now  occupied  the  public  mind,  and  the  foremost  of  these 
was  the  Erench  Eevolution. 

On  this  great  subject,  the  opinion  and  conduct  of  Francis 
were  decided  from  the  beginning,  without  reticence  or 
arriere-pensee.  All  the  relics  of  his  early  writing  show  the 
intensity  of  his  early  prepossessions,  and  deliberate  opinion 
likewise,  respecting  the  mischiefs  of  the  ancien  regime  in 
France,  and  of  despotic  and  priestly  power  in  general. 
On  these  topics  his  language  never  varied  or  wavered 
during  his  sixty  years  of  journalism  and  pubUc  life.  I 
have  not  observed  any  passage  in  his  writings  in  which 
he  palliated  the  excesses  of  the  revolutionary  party  ;  but 
neither  did  he  ever  admit  those  excesses  to  furnish  a  reason 
for  doubting  that  their  cause  was  in  substance  the  right  one. 
In  this  disposition  of  mind,  he  held  on  his  way  through  the 
agitated  years  from  1790  to  1796,  always  opposing  Pitt  and 
others,  sometimes  with  effect,  whenever  the  questions  of  our 
relations  with  France,  or  of  the  suspension  of  the  Habeas- 
Corpus,  and  similar  measures  against  the  disaffected  in 
England  (he  was  himself  a  leading  member  of  the  society 
of  the  Friends  of  the  People,  and  had  much  to  do  to  defend 
himself  and  his  associates  in  parUament),  or  of  parha- 
mentary  reform  among  ourselves,  came  in  question.  In 
truth,  the  radicalism  of  Francis  lay  very  deep.  Of  course 
it  may  be  ascribed  in  part  to  disappointed  ambition ;  more, 
perhaps,  to  his  habitual  contempt  for  what  he  esteemed 
the  political  baseness  and  proHigacy  of  the  governing 
faction  in  England.  But  beyond  all  this,  there  was  a 
fundamental  belief  in  the  doctrine  of  political  equality — 


1790]  FRENCH  REVOLUTION.  281 

a  doctrine  which  he  never  wished  to  see  carried  into 
practice  otherwise  than  gradually,  but  of  the  ultimate 
success  as  well  as  justice  of  which  he  was  in  his  heart 
persuaded. 

Of  course,  this  way  of  thinking  and  expressing  himself 
soon  brought  him  into  collision — gradually  at  first,  after- 
wards so  as  to  produce  some  coldness  between  them — with 
his  hitherto  close  political  associate,  Burke.  To  no  other 
man  does  Burke  appear  to  have  deemed  it  so  important  or 
so  difficult  to  justify  the  great  change  which  his  horror  of 
the  French  Eevolution  had  introduced  into  his  general 
poHtical  sentiments,  and  in  especial  his  political  friendships. 
There  was,  in  truth,  very  much  in  common  between  these 
two  distinguished  fellow-countrymen,  so  like,  and  yet  so 
unlike,  each  other. ^  Both  were  under  the  tyrannical  in- 
fluence of  those  impulses  so  finely  delineated  by  Coleridge 
when  speaking  of  Burke  : — 

Stonny  Pity,  and  the  cherished  lure 
Of  pomp,  and  proud  precipitance  of  soul. 

But  the  pity  of  Burke,  now  at  all  events,  was  for  an 
outraged  court  and  aristocracy,  that  of  Francis  for  the 
multitudes,  the  '  proletary,'  the  slave,  the  Hindoo.  The 
pomp  which  fired  his  imagination,  if  any,  was  not  that 
of  European  potentates,  but  of  Indian  sovereigns, 
writhing  beneath  the  grasp  of  English  power,  used  to 
wring  from  them  wealth  for  the  meanest  of  the  sons  of 
England. 

The  letters  which  passed  between  Francis  and  Burke 

^  No  one  who  has  carefully  studied  the  external  evidence  can  believe  that 
Burke  wrote  Junius.  But  as  far  as  the  internal  evidence  of  style  goes,  those 
who  advocate  his  authorship  have  always  appeared  to  me  to  have  a  far  more 
plausible  case  than  other  dissentients  from  the  Franciscan  theory ;  and  I 
believe  the  reason  to  be  what  I  have  suggested :  the  similarity  of  the  two 
minds,  different  as  their  products  undoubtedly  were. 


282  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1790 

on  French  aSkirs  at  this  crisis  are  printed  in  part  in 
vol.  i.  of '  Burke's  Works  and  Correspondence '  (ed.  1852, 
to  which  the  following  references  are  made).  I  am  en- 
abled to  make  some  addition  from  the  Francis  papers 
as  regards  the  letters  from  Burke  (his  own  he  has  not 
preserved).  And  I  have  only  reproduced  those  already 
printed  where  they  seemed  necessary  for  the  comprehen- 
sion of  the  subject. 

The  series  commences  with  a  letter  from  Burke,  Decem- 
ber 11,  1789,  on  a  scheme  for  the  establishment  of  a  na- 
tional bank  in  France,  which  Francis  had  communicated 
to  him  in  print  (Burke's  Works,  i.  568).  The  next  from 
Francis  is  dated  from  Bath,  February  19,  1790,  p.  569. 
It  appears  to  have  been  occasioned  by  Burke  lending 
him  a  proof-sheet  of  his  '  Eeflections  on  the  Revolution 
in  France.'  In  it  Francis  argues  strongly  and  fiercely 
against  the  use  made  by  Burke  of  some  of  his  topics. 

In  my  opinion  all  that  you  say  of  the  Queen  is  pure  foppery.  If 
she  be  a  perfect  female  character,  you  ought  to  take  your  ground 
upon  her  virtues.  If  she  be  the  reverse,  it  is  ridiculous  in  any 
but  a  lover  to  place  her  personal  charms  in  opposition  to  her 
crimes.  .  .  .  Look  back,  1  beseech  you,  and  deliberate  a  little 
before  you  determine  that  this  is  an  ofi&ce  which  perfectly  becomes 
you.  If  I  stop  here  it  is  not  for  want  of  a  multitude  of  objections. 
The  mischief  you  are  going  to  do  yourself  is,  to  my  apprehension, 
palpable.  It  is  visible.  It  is  audible.  I  snuff  it  in  the  wind.  I 
taste  it  already.  I  feel  it  in  every  sense,  and  so  wUl  you  hereafter ; 
when  I  vow  to  God  (an  elegant  phrase)  it  will  be  a  sort  of  con- 
solation for  me  to  reflect  that  I  did  everything  in  my  power  to 
prevent  it. 

On  the  following  day  (Feb.  20),  Burke  answers  by  a 
remarkable  letter  (enclosed  in  one  from  his  son  Eichard 
Burke),  which  is  printed  at  p.  571.  It  contains  a 
long  and  eloquent  vindication  of  his  enthusiasm  in  behalf 
of  the  unfortunate  Marie -Antoinette,  which  need  not  be 
reproduced  here. 


1700]    BURKE  AND  FRANCIS  ON  THE  REVOLUTION.         283 

'  You,'  lie  says  to  Francis, '  are  the  only  friend  I  have  who  will  dare 
to  give  me  advice.  I  must  have,  then,  something  terrible  in  me,' 
which  intimidates  all  others  who  know  me  from  giving  me  the  only 
unequivocal  mark  of  regard.  Whatever  their  rough  and  menacing 
manner  may  be,  I  must  search  myself  upon  it. ;  and  when  I  discover 
it,  old  as  I  am,  I  must  endeavour  to  correct  it.  I  flattered  myself, 
however,  that  you  at  least  would  not  have  thought  loj  other  friends 
altogether  justified  in  withholding  from  me  their  services  of  this 
kind.  Ton  certainly  do  not  always  convey  to  me  your  opinions  with 
the  greatest  possible  tenderness  and  management,  and  yet  I  do  not 
recollect,  since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  your  acquaintance,  that  there 
has  been  a  heat  or  a  coolness  of  a  single  day's  duration  on  my  side 
during  that  whole  time.  I  believe  your  memory  cannot  present  to 
you  an  instance  of  it.  I  ill  deserve  friends  if  I  throw  them  away  on 
account  of  their  candour,  and  simplicity  of  their  good  nature.  In 
particular,  you  know  that  you  have  in  some  instances  favoured  me 
with  your  instructions  relative  to  things  I  was  preparing  for  the 
public.  If  I  did  not  in  every  instance  agree  with  you,  I  think  you 
had  on  the  whole  sufficient  proofs  of  my  dooihty  to  make  you  believe 
that  I  received  your  corrections  not  only  without  offence,  but  with 
no  small  degree  of  gratitude.' 

The  next  (not  printed)  relates,  apparently,  to  some  ques- 
tions concerning  the  management  of  the  impeachment. 

March  10,  1790. 
My  dear  Francis, — I  called  upon  you  last  night,  both  at  your  own 
house  and  Brookes's,  and  on  coming  home  found  you  had  been 
here.  Let  me  know  what  answer  you  have  received,  but  by  no 
means  return  any  reply  or  take  any  other  step  until  I  see  you. 
Shall  I  call  on  you,  or  will  you  come  hither  ?  I  have  many  thoughts 
on  this  business  extending  beyond  your  present  lease,  though  not 
foreign  to  it,  and  I  think  of  starting  some  of  them  in  the  Committee 
this  day.     We  meet  at  one. 

Tours  ever  most  truly, 

Edm.  Bubke. 

The  next  from  Francis  is  dated  Newmarket,  Nov.  3, 
1790.  It  was  written  when  Burke's  work  on  the  Revolu- 
tion, which  he  originally  saw  in  proofs,  had  actually  ap- 
peared. It  is  printed  at  p.  586,  and  has  been  perhaps  more 
frequently  quoted  than  any  other  of  Francis's  avowed  pro- 
ductions, and  supposed  by  critics  to  contain  more  of  the 


284  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1790 

Junian  character.  It  is  a  long  and  argumentative  defence 
of  the  revolution,  founded  on  the  writer's  estimate  of  the 
misgovernment  of  France  in  past  times,  and  the  hopeless- 
ness of  any  but  a  radical  remedy. 

Many  things  liave  been  done  -wliicli  greatly  deserve  to  be 
lamented  :  and  tbe  more  because  they  weaken  and  disgrace  a  cause 
essentially  just  and  honourable.  The  loss  of  a  single  life  in  a  popu- 
lar tumult  excites  individual  tenderness  and  pity.  No  tears  are 
shed  for  nations.  .  .  .  But  you  dread  and  detest  commotion  of 
every  kind.  And  so  should  I ;  and  who  would  not  ?  if  a  healthy 
repose  could  be  obtained  without  a  tempest  or  stagnation.  But  tell 
me — has  not  God  himself  commanded,  or  permitted,  the  storms  to 
purify  the  elements  ? 

Burke's  closing  reply  follows  (November  19,  1790, 
p.  591),  and  the  correspondence  drops.  I  find  only  two 
more  short  letters  from  Burke  to  Francis,  and  one  from 
Burke's  brother  William,  on  the  melancholy  subject  of 
the  death  of  Edmund's  son  Eichard,  which  broke  the 
father's  heart. 

Monday  morning,  January  23,  1792. 
My  dear  Sir, — I  thank  you  for  the  honour  you  have  done  me  in 
thinking  that  my  obsolete  and  worn-out  ideas  of  classical  expression 
can  be  of  any  use  to  you.  Such  as  they  are  they  are  at  your  service. 
I  have  scribbled  in  your  margin  a  trifling  note  or  two.  I  have 
likewise  scribbled  over  the  same  thoughts  with  yours  ;  which  I 
thought  so  far  from  contracting,  to  give  a  dignity  to  the  subject, 
ought  rather  to  be  expanded.  Certainly  it  is  in  the  very  best  style 
of  antiquity,  in  all  eulogies,  to  exalt  the  place  of  birth  and  education ; 
and  the  dignity  of  the  art  is  the  object  of  an  .  .  .  cultivated,  and 
the  splendour  of  his  progenitors  or  predecessors.  I  think  you  have 
said  more  of  Mr.  Thicknesse  in  your  conversations  with  me  than  is 
said  in  the  inscription.  I  have  endeavoured  to  express  it.  In  the 
latter  part  I  was  interrupted  by  the  bad  news  which  takes  me  to 
town,  the  great  danger  of  the  life  of  an  old  and  invaluable  friend. 
If  my  stock  was  greater  the  loss  would  still  be  most  grievous.  I 
can  say,  write,  or  think  nothing  more.  Alas  !  all  that  is  said  there 
would  be  truly  said  upon  another  tomb. 

Dear  sir, 
Very  sincerely  yours, 

Edm.  Bueke. 


1790]  BURKE  LEAVES  PARLIAMENT.  285 

The  next  begins  singularly,  as  if  the  pohtical  quarrel 
had  now  ripened  into  personal  disunion. 

Sunday  evening,  February  16,  1794. 
Mr.  Burke  presents  his  respectful  compliments  to  Mr.  Francis, 
and  hopes  he  will  have  the  goodness  to  excuse  the  liberty  Mr.  Burke 
takes  of  requesting  the  honour  of  seeing  him  at  his  house  in  Duke 
Street  at  ten  to-morrow,  on  the  unpleasant  business. 

The  next,  as  I  have  said,  relates,  sadly  enough,  to  Ed- 
mund Burke's  death-blow — the  loss  of  his  son. 

WilliaTn  Burke  to  Francis. 

25  Duke  Street,  St.  James's, 

August  9,  1794. 
Sir, — The  friendly  effect  of  your  humanity  found  me  here.  The 
poor  father  and  mother  are  strangely  comforting  each  other,  and 
the  mother,  far  the  weaker,  succeeds,  I  think,  something  better  than 
the  father  in  that  dreadful  exertion ;  nor  does  she  fail  altogether  in 
participating  the  miserable  comfort  she  endeavours  to  give.  God 
only  knows  whether  these  sad  exertions  of  the  moment  can  grow 
into  a  settled  patience. 

God  preserve  you,  sir,  and  continue  to  you  the  infinite  blessing  of 
being  a  father. 

I  am,  sir,  with  great  regard  and  esteem. 

Tour  very  obedient,  humble  servant, 

William  Bueke. 

Once  only  have  I  found  Francis  and  Burke  in  contact 
again.  On  June  20,  1795,  an  attack  was  made  in 
Parliament  on  the  latter,  for  some  violent  language  which 
he  had  used  in  the  conduct  of  the  impeachment  of 
Hastings  :  the  question  being,  the  proposal  of  a  vote  of 
thanks  to  the  managers.  Prancis  on  this  occasion 
supported  his  old  associate ;  and  claimed  his  right  to  do 
so,  as  '  having  attended  the  trial  of  Hastings,  with  the 
greatest  diligence,  and  more  constantly,  he  believed,  than 
any  member  of  the  House.'  A  significant  proof  of  the 
pertinacity  of  his  implacable  spirit.  Burke  spoke 
languidly  and  little,  and  did  not  at  all  notice  the  language 
used  against  himself.     On  the  following  day  he  accepted 


286  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1780 

the  Chiltern  Hundreds  ;  and  so  ended  the  greatest  parlia- 
mentary career,  in  one  sense,  and  that  a  lofty  one, 
which  England  has  known. 

The  account  of  the  relations  between  Burke  and 
Francis  may  be  fitly  closed  with  a  paper  of  remarks, 
composed  by  Francis  many  years  later,  on  Bisset's  '  Life  of 
Burke.'  They  formed,  perhaps,  the  heads  of  that  'Memoir 
of  Burke,'  which  he  seems  to  have  written,  but  which 
has  not  been  recovered. 

'  Doctor  Bisset's  Life  of  Edmund  Burke,  when  I  read  it 
a  dozen  years  ago,  appeared  to  me  not  much  better 
than  a  catchpenny ;  very  hastily  put  together,  without 
materials  beyond  magazines  and  newspapers,  and  full 
of  mistakes,  but  by  no  means-  without  merit  in  point 
of  criticism,  and  sound  observation  on  some  characters. 
In  that  part  of  the  work  in  which  I  am  mentioned  he  is 
extremely  inaccurate,  though  I  furnished  him,  at  his  own 
earnest  desire,  with  two  original  letters  of  Mr.  Burke, 
and  some  other  information  about  India,  to  which  he  has 
not  done  justice.  In  p.  452,  vol.  i.  he  says,  "  A  very 
intimate  friendship  had  subsisted  from  their  early  youth 
between  Mr.  Burke  and  Mr.  Francis."  This  is  not  the 
fact.  I  had  known  Mr.  Burke  a  little  at  an  earher 
period;  but  it  was  in  the  year  1773,  before  the  Act 
of  Parliament  appointing  the  first  Governor-General  and 
Council  for  Bengal  legislatively,  that  we  were  introduced 
to  each  other  by  our  common  friend  the  late  John  Bourke 
of  Tokenhouse  yard,  who  brought  us  together  ;  and  Mr. 
Edmund  Burke,  though  otherwise  he  opposed  the  bill, 
spoke  handsomely  of  me  in  the  debate,  as  a  very  proper 
person  for  the  office,  &c.  In  the  year  1776  I  sent  to  Mr. 
John  Bourke,  from  India,  a  copy  of  my  plan  for  a 
perpetual  settlement  of  the  lands  of  Bengal,  and  desired 
that  he  would  communicate  it  to  Mr.  E.  B. — This  is 


1790]  BISSET'S  LIFE  OF  BURKE.  287 

the  paper  alluded  to  in  p.  145  of  the  2nd  volume,  and 
in  Edmund's  letter  to  John  Bourke  dated  in  JSTovember 
1777,  which  Bisset  has  published. 

'  In  the  preceding  June  of  that  year  Mr.  Burke  wrote 
to  me  himself,  to  introduce  and  recommend  to  me  his 
cousin,  the  late  Mr.  William  Bui'ke,  who,  after  a  short 
stay  at  Madras,  returned  to  England,  and  did  never  come 
to  me  at  Calcutta.    In  answer  to  the  queries.^ 

'  1 .  I  can  only  say  that  the  ninth  and  eleventh  reports  of 
the  Select  Committee,  and  which  are  the  most  important, 
were  written  by  Mr.  Burke,  except  a  few  pages  of  the 
former,  about  the  Nabobs  Mobarek  ul  Dowla  and  Maho- 
med Eeza  Cawn,  and  the  monopoly  of  salt,  opium,  and 
some  other  articles,  which  I  drew  for  him  at  his  own 
desire,  besides  correcting  the  whole — I  mean  in  minor 
particulars  and  lapses  of  expression  ;  all  which  he  left  at 
my  disposal,  not  only  in  those  reports  but  in  many  of 
his  speeches  and  other  writings. 

*•  2.  I  am  not  able  to  say  which  of  the  articles  of  the 
impeachment  were  written  by  him.  Several  of  them 
were  drawn  up  by  me.  Others  and  the  most  voluminous 
by  Dr.  Laurence,  and  one  by  Lord  Minto  (Sir  G.  Elliot). 
All  these  I  could  point  out. 

'  3.  This  speech  was  in  my  judgment  by  much  the  most 
powerful  and  perfect  he  ever  pronounced,  and  heard  with 
universal  admiration  and  assent,  including  even  that  of 
Pitt  and  Dundas.  Unfortunately,  no  record  of  it  that  I 
know  of  has  been  preserved.  I  often  pressed  him  to 
write  it  down.  But  at  that  time  he  had  too  many  and 
more  urgent  occupations. 

'  4.  I  know  of  no  record  of  this  speech.  But  the  report 
of  the  Select  Committee  on  the  Abatement  of  the 
Impeachment   was   written   by  him,   with  assistance,  I 

1  These  (queries  are  not  preserved. 


288  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1791 

presume,  from  Dr.  Laurence  ;  and  if  I  were  compelled 
to  choose  among  his  eminent  works  the  most  eminent 
and  the  most  extraordinary,  I  should  fix  upon  this 
report. 

'  Bisset's  principal  object  was  to  publish  his  book  at  any 
rate,  and  as  speedily  as  possible.  For  all  the  political 
part,  especially  the  panegyric  of  Henry  Dundas,  he  told 
me  I  need  not  mind  it,  for,  to  say  the  truth,  he  was  paid  for 
it.  He  was  at  Edinburgh  while  the  book  was  printing ; 
consequently,  had  no  opportunity  of  correcting  the  press 
himself.  So  at  least  he  accounted  to  me  for  the  multi- 
tude of  mistakes  and  errors  in  the  printed  copies  of  his 
work.' 

The  following,  from  a  letter  to  Sir  Eobert  Chambers 
(April  27,  1791),  gives  Francis's  judgment  on  one  of 
Burke's  greatest  efforts. 

April  27,  1791. 

As  to  the  nintli  report,  whicli  is  indeed  a  masterpiece  of  human 
wisdom,  the  fact  is  I  wrote  a  very  small  part  of  it,  and,  as  to  the 
composition,  corrected  the  whole. 

On  memory  only,  and  speaking  without  book,  I  think  I  can  say 
with  truth  that  there  is  not  one  material  prirciple  or  deduction  in 
it  which  may  not  be  fairly  and  honestly  traced  back  to  some  ante- 
cedent opinions  of  my  own,  dilated  on  and  expanded  by  a  superior 
power.  In  some  respects  I  am  the  acorn.  But,  if  you  want 
to  see  the  oak  in  all  its  beauty,  dignity,  and  strength,  read  the 
ninth  report,  the  sole  undoubted  property  of  the  commanding 
master-mind  of  Edmund  Burke. 

It  is  true  he  sucked  the  saccharine  juices  out  of  all  vegetation, 
even  from  such  a  wild  weed  as  myself,  and  turned  it  to  his  purpose  ; 
but  he  alone  was  the  wonderful  artificer,  who  made  the  wax,  the 
comb,  and  the  honey. 

Francis  continued  throughout  this  ParHament  to  take 
an  active  part  as  a  debater  on  other  subjects  of  general 
interest  besides  those  connected  with  French  affairs.  He 
was  always  found  in  the  foremost  of  the  ever-narrowing 


1792]  SLAVE  TRADE.  289 

phalanx  of  Fox's  supporters.  He  opposed  one  by  one 
the  stringent  measures  of  the  government  against  re- 
formers and  Jacobins  at  home.  He  distinguished  himself 
especially  in  support  of  Wilberforce's  efforts  for  the  aboh- 
tion  of  the  slave  trade.'-  One  of  his  speeches  (on  the 
royal  proclamation  against  seditious  writings,  May  25, 
1792)  may  be  quoted  as  conveying  his  sentiments  on  a 
subject  on  which  Francis,  above  most  men,  had  a  right  to 
speak  with  authority. 

'  Since  I  have  been  acquainted  with  pohtical  discussions, 
I  never  knew  a  period  at  which  anonymous  pubhcations 
were  less  in  use  than  at  present,  at  which  authors  were 
ever  so  ready  to  put  their  names  to  their  works  and 
to  make  themselves  personally  responsible  for  what  they 
pubhshed.  It  is  the  literary  character  of  the  age  we  live 
in,  and  gives  the  he  direct  to  the  ridiculous  supposition 
that  a  diligent  inquiry  is  necessary  to  detect  any  of 
the  persons  who  can  by  any  possibility  be  the  objects  of 
the  proclamation.' 

His  speeches  on  parhamentaiy  reform — particularly 
on  Mr.  (afterwards  Lord)  Grey's  famous  motion,  May  7, 
1793,  of  which  he  was  one  of  the  earliest  supporters  in 
earnest,  looking  on  it  as  a  fundamental  and  desirable 
change,  not  as  a  mere  party  exigency — attracted  much 
attention  in  their  day  among  the  partisans  of  that  change. 
The  way  in  which  his  principles  respecting  it  affected 
his  views  on  minor  questions  is  curiously  exemplified 
in  a  speech  on  a  proposal  for  disfranchising  certain 
Stockbridge  electors  guilty  of  bribery  (April  10, 1793) : — 

'The  instance  you  prohibit  is  nothing  but  a  sample 
of  the  practice  you  permit.     Do  you  think  that  by 

1  'His  judgment  does  not  seem  to  he  equal  to  his  laudable  zeal  on  this 
subject,'  -writes  Dr.  Burgh,  a  correspondent  of  Wilherforce.  (Life  of  W. 
ii.  144.)  ; 

VOL.  II.  U 


290  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1793 

disfranchising  these  individuals  the  principal  end  of 
penal  justice  will  in  any  degree  be  attained?  Do  you 
beheve  that  it  will  deter  others,  either  high  or  low, 
from  selling  their  interest  or  their  votes  in  other  places, 
or  at  this  place,  at  a  future  election  ?  You  know  it  will 
not.  All  the  effect  to  be  expected  from  such  a  measure 
as  this  is  to  make  other  persons,  in  a  similar  situation, 
a  little  more  cautious  in  the  form  of  their  proceedings,  a 
little  more  dextrous  in  the  management  of  their  corrupt 
engagements,  and  more  careful  of  exposing  themselves 
to  be  detected.  Under  pretence  of  punishing  bribery 
in  a  particular  case,  aU  you  do  is  to  teach  the  lesson 
and  inculcate  the  necessity  of  acting  with  deeper  fraud  on 
other  occasions.  If  there  be  any  truth  in  these  reflections, 
if  it  be  admitted,  as  I  think  it  must,  in  the  mind  of 
every  man,  that  this  bill,  whether  just  or  not  in  its 
immediate  application,  will  not  deter  others,  I  then 
should  be  glad  to  know  in  what  sense  our  having 
recourse  to  such  a  measure  can  be  of  any  advantage 
to  the  public.  On  my  principles,  and  according  to  my 
view  of  the  subject,  nothing  can  be  more  injurious  to 
the  public  service  than  to  hold  out  to  the  people  the 
appearance  of  parliamentary  rigour  in  particular  instances 
of  corruption,  when,  in  fact,  we  are  indifferent  about 
the  whole  system  and  suffer  it  to  take  its  course  without 
interruption  or  notice.  The  effect  of  these  pretended 
remedies,  these  occasional  palliatives,  I  fear,  will  be 
to  dull  and  stupefy  the  people,  already  too  dull  and 
indifferent,  on  the  subject  of  a  parliamentary  reform, 
and  to  deprive  us  of  any  chance  of  a  real  effective 
remedy.  Believing  as  I  do  that  a  complete  alteration  in 
the  construction  of  the  House  of  Commons  is  indispensably 
necessary  to  the  preservation  of  the  constitution,  I  never 
will  concur  in  any  measure  that  tends  to  throw  a  veil 


1793]  'FRIENDS  OF  THE  PEOPLE.'  291 

over  the  general  abuse,  or  to  encourage  the  people  in 
thinking  that  a  general  comprehensive  remedy  for  a 
universal  and  rooted  evil  may  be  delayed  with  safety.' 

On. May  3,  George  Eose  (not  unversed,  it  was  thought, 
in  Stockbridge  politics)  moved  to  discharge  the  order 
for  the  second  reading  ;  on  which  Francis  congratulated 
the  independent  electors  of  Stockbridge  on  '  the  powerful 
security  now  held  out  to  them  in  the  respectable 
protection  of  the  secretary  of  the  Treasury,  who  had 
frankly  declared  himself  an  enemy  in  general  to  all 
bills  of  pains  and  penalties  for  bribery  and  corruption. 
On  such  a  subject  the  honourable  gentleman's  authority 
was  great,  for  his  experience  must  be  considerable  and  his 
knowledge  extensive.  The  cause  and  the  patron  had  a  na- 
tural relation,  and  were  perfectly  worthy  of  one  another ! ' 
For  himself,  however,  he  repeated  his  objection  to  the 
measure,  which,  through  a  coahtion,  was  thrown  out. 

On  January  23,  1795,  we  find  him,  in  a  debate  on 
the  continuance  of  the  Habeas  Corpus  Suspension  Act, 
strongly  vindicating  the  very  unpopular  society  of  Friends 
of  the  People,'  to  which  he  belonged,  against  certain 
imputations  cast  upon  it. 

Mr.  Parkes — a  thoroughly  good  authority  on  the 
history  of  parliamentary  reform — possessed  a  copy 
(printed)  of  the  first  draft  of  the  '  Eesolution  and  Plan 
intended  to  be  proposed  to  the  Society  of  the  Friends  of 
the  People,  drawn  up  in  the  Autumn  of  1793,  and  laid 
before  the  Society  on  the  8th  March,  1794.'  It  differs  to 
some  extent  from  that  finally  adopted.  Mr.  Parkes  has 
endorsed  on  this  copy:  '  It  was  drawn  entirely  by  Francis, 
receiving  suggestions  from  two  or  three  of  his  co-leaders.' 

It  has  been  a  favourite  pursuit  with  some  critics  to. 
trace  resemblances  to  the  Junian  style  in  the  speeches  of 
Francis's  best  parliamentary  period.     Generally  speaking, 

u  2 


292  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1793 

the  attempt  has  been  attended  with  Httle  success.  Our 
styles  change  in  the  course  of  advancing  life,  as  our 
bodies  and  minds  change.  Francis  had  worn  away 
by  this  time  much  of  the  eloquent  verve  of  early  youth. 
And,  as  we  have  seen,  he  was  by  no  means  as  powerful 
with  the  voice  as  with  the  pen.  He  corrected  indeed 
his  speeches  sedulously  for  the  press  ;  but  what  has  been 
said  cannot  well  be  rewritten,  and  all  who  have  united 
oratory  with  composition  well  know  that  to  turn  into 
a  discourse  for  publication  matter  already  spoken  is  a 
wearying  effort,  which  has  nothing  of  the  freshness  and 
fire  of  original  composition.  Still,  passages  every  here 
and  there  occur  which  no  doubt  remind  the  reader 
forcibly  of  the  statehest  and  most  laboured  (and  the  most 
laboured  generally  are  the  best)  passages  of  Junius. 
There  is,  in  particular,  the  same  peculiarity  of  a  repetition 
Df  elaborate  efforts  to  raise  the  attention  of  the  reader 
by  well-poised  generalities,  epigram,  antithesis,  maxim, 
comparison,  without  opening  the  immediate  and  narrow 
question  at  issue  until  just  before  the  end : 

pendent  opera  interrupta,  minajque 

Verborum  ingentes — 

a  process  which  sometimes  gives  majesty  to  a  climax,  but 
sometimes  also  ends  in  an  anti-climax,  the  substantial 
proposition  being  slight,  the  approaches  elaborate.^  I 
will  select  a  specimen  or  two,  which  seem  to  my  own 
perception  to  illustrate  my  meaning,  from  his  speech  in 
the  'Debate  respecting  the  armament  against  Eussia,' 
March  1,  1792:— 

'  Why  is  this  island  to  be  for  ever  the  victim  of 
:ontinental  politics  ?  The  position  that  separates,  ought  to 
secure  us.  But  systems  are  created  to  counteract  nature. 
3ur  situation  gives  us  no  advantage.     We  are  insulated 

'  '  The  best  specimen  of  this  manner '  (the  antithetic)  '  is  in  Junius,  because 
lis  antithesis  is  less  merely  verbal  than  Dr.  Johnson's.' — Coleridye's  Lit- 
Remcims,  i,  239. 


1793]  ARMAMENT  AGAINST  RUSSIA.  293 

in  vain.  I  would  warn  the  country,  if  I  could,  against 
plunging,  as  we  have  done  too  often,  into  a  labyrinth  of 
continental  politics.  The  nature  and  essence  of  a 
labyrinth  is  to  be  very  easy  to  enter  and  very  difficult  to 
get  out  of  it.  Let  us  attend  to  our  own  affairs,  and 
beware  how  we  follow  these  wandering  fires,  this  will-of 
the- wisp  that  carries  us  away  through  bogs  and  quicksands, 
and  instead  of  landing  us  at  our  own  door,  abandons  us  at 
last  in  some  foreign  desert,  worn  out  and  benighted,  to 
find  our  way  home  again.  .  .  . 

'  The  right  hon.  gentleman  would  do  well  to  consider 
where  his  concession  leaves  him,  and  whether  he  had 
not  better  resort  at  once  to  the  original  folly  of  his 
conduct,  supposed  to  be  corrected  by  better  information 
or  experiment,  than  persist  in  asserting  that  the  interest 
which  he  has  sacrificed  was  essential,  that  the  right 
he  has  surrendered  was  indisputable,  and  that  the 
conditions  he  has  retracted  were  of  importance  sufficient 
to  justify  the  armament  and  fit  to  be  supported  by  the 
hazard  of  a  war.  In  one  way,  he  has  a  chance  of  being 
right ;  in  the  other,  he  pronounces  his  own  condemnation. 
Privileged  as  he  is,  he  will  not  tell  us,  I  presume,  that 
both  sides  of  the  contradiction  are  true;  that  he  acted  wisely 
in  demanding,  and  vigorously  in  retracting ;  that  to  arm 
for  a  certain  object,  and  to  disarm  without  attaining  it, 
is  an  equal  proof  of  consummate  wisdom  and  of  exalted 
resolution.  Until  adverse  propositions  such  as  these 
are  made  to  concur,  I  must  continue  to  think,  as  I  have 
been  taught,  that  among  nations,  as  well  as  individuals, 
moderation  is  the  pledge  and  foundation  of  firmness ;  that 
insolence  and  arrogance  generally  lead  to  meanness  and 
submission ;  and  that  he  who  draws  his  sword  without 
reason,  is  very  likely  to  put  it  up  again  without  honour.'  ^ 

'  This  is  not  the  proper  place  for  recurring  to  a  well-worn  subject.     Never- 
theless, it  may  be  here  suggested  in  answer  to  those  who  have  relied  (even 


294  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FR.\NCIS,  [1791 

Having  brouglit  Francis  nearly  to  the  natural  ter- 
mination of  this  division  of  his  political  life,  I  will 
complete  .this  chapter  by  the  insertion  of  a  few  mis- 
cellaneous letters  of  a  more  general  character.  The 
following,  to  Sir  Eobert  Chambers,  now  Chief  Justice  at 
Calcutta,  is  the  earliest  which  I  have  seen  dated  from 
St.  James's  Square,  to  which  he  had  by  this  time 
removed,  and  where  (at  No.  14,  now,  I  think,  the  East 
India  United  Service  Club)  he  continued  to  live  until 
his  decease,  though  for  several  years  he  kept  the  house 
at  East  Sheen  also. 

St.  James's  Square,  April  27,  1791. 
My  dear  Friend, — Instead  of  a  formal,  unsatisfactory  apology  about 
myself,  and  you,  and  my  long  silence,  the  best  thing  I  can  do  is  to 
tell  you  the  honest  truth  at  once,  and  trust  to  your  candour  and 
friendship  to  give  me  a  favourable  construction.  I  have  really  been 
restrained  from  writing  to  you  because  I  neither  knew  how  to  avoid 
the  only  subject  in  which  you  were  personally  interested,  nor  how 
to  speak  of  it  in  terms  either  of  hope  or  consolation.  I  mean  your 
advancement  to  the  office  of  Chief  Justice,  so  long  and  so  dearly  earned 
and  so  well  deserved.  I  thank  God  you  have  it  now,  though  a 
poor  reward  it  is  for  so  many  years'  labour.  Will  it  enable  you, 
within  any  reasonable  compass  of  years,  to  secure  a  retreat  in  this 
country  ?  That  object,  I  hope,  is  not  discarded.  I  see  nothing  in 
India  that  ought  to  tempt  a  reasonable  man  to  stay  there  who  has 
a  shelter  anywhere  else.  My  doom  is  still  to  oppose  and  to  predict, 
and  both  to  no  purpose.  We  are  now  engaged  in  a  contest  in  India 
that  cannot,  as  I  learn  from  the  highest  authority,  even  if  attended 
with  the  utmost  success,  prove  advantageous  to  our  affairs.  I 
believe  so.  Then  what  are  you  to  expect  from  defeat  or  procras- 
tination ?  My  dear  Sir  Robert,  keep  your  money  in  your  pocket,  if 
you  have  any.  They  will  promise  yon  great  interest ;  but,  if  this 
war  goes  on,  you  will  never  see  your  capital  again.  I  have  com- 
municated to  Mr.  Burroughs's  friends  in  Ireland,  as  I  know  he  has 
done  himself,  the  kind,  the  benevolent  reception  he  met  with  in 


recently)  on  the  argument  that  Francis  could  not  have  written  'Junius' 
because  he  never  wrote  anything  equal  to  it.  Admitting  such  to  be  the  fact, 
the  same  reasoning  would  prove  that  Butler  could  not  have  written '  Hudi- 
bras,'  nor  Le  Sage  'Gil  Bias,'  nor  Bunyan  'The  Pilgrim's  Progress,' 


1791]  FAMILY  AFFAIRS.  295 

Bengal  from  all  my  surviving  friends  there,  but  particularly  from 
you.  I  really  am  obliged  to  you  for  your  behaviour  to  him.  His 
lot  in  life  had  been  distinguished  by  a  stroke  of  more  than 
common  ill-fortune  :  he  has  borne  his  fate  stoutly,  and  I  hope  he 
will  live  to  conquer  it.  In  nay  situation  there  has  been  no  sort  of 
change,  except  that  I  have  removed  into  a  very  convenient  house  in 
St.  James's  Square,  where  I  believe  I  am  at  anchor  for  life.  The 
naiae  of  the  situation  sounds  well ;  but  you  would  be  much  mis- 
taken in  concluding  that  I  lived  in  a  palace,  or  at  all  like  a  prince. 
Some  lucky  accidents  have  enabled  m.e  to  venture  once  more  into 
Parliament,  though  at  a  great  expense.  This  is  the  last  time  of 
asking.  My  daughters  are  everything  I  could  vrisb,  and  very 
likely  to  be  happy  too,  if  they  can  reconcile  themselves  to  believe 
that  happiness  may  be  had  without  marriage.  Security  and  inde- 
pendence they  shall  have,  at  least  as  long  as  fortune  can  be  secured 
in  England.  My  son  has  been  two  years  in  the  Temple,  and  also 
studying  under  a  special  pleader.  So  I  have  done  my  part  for  him, 
and  infinitely  more  than  was  done  for  me.  The  idea  of  actual  war 
with  Russia  seems  to  be  abandoned  by  everybody,  and  particularly 
disclaimed  by  the  friends  of  Mr.  Pitt.  Tet  the  expense  of  the 
armament  is  continued,  and  the  pressing  of  seamen,  both  here  and 
in  Ireland,  goes  on  as  strenuously  as  if  war  had  been  declared.  I 
really  intend  to  behave  better  than  I  have  done,  and  to  be  a 
laudable  correspondent  hereafter.  But  I  know  my  own  frailty  too 
well  to  make  solemn  engagements  about  writing.  Much  depends 
upon  the  topics  of  the  day,  the  temper  of  the  moment,  the  imme- 
diate occasion,  and  the  general  habit  of  writing.  While  I  was  in 
training  ia  Bengal,  I  had  no  mercy  on  my  friends  in  England.  I 
wrote  volumes  of  private  letters,  and  thought  nothing  of  it.  My 
silence  and  negligence  now,  I  do  assure  you,  is  no  proof  of  a  want  of 
good  will.  Give  me  credit  for  more  than  I  say,  and  do  not  rigor- 
ously measure  my  merits  by  my  practice.  I  look  back  to  old  times 
and  remember  old  friends  with  a  tender  affectionate  interest,  con- 
sidering them  as  objects  in  which  I  have  long  had  a  property. 
They  are  not  like  the  events  or  connexions  of  yesterday,  which  have 
not  had  time  to  take  root  in  the  mind.  My  wife  and  family,  too, 
have  been  brought  up  to  think  that  they  in  some  sort  belong 
to  you,  and  that  they  do  not  go  out  of  their  own  family,  when  they 
wish  to  be  united  with  you  and  with  yours. 

Is  there  anything  in  this  England  in  which  I  can  contribute 
to  your  service  or  to  your  satisfaction  ?     I  should  like  to  be  tried. 
Tour  most  sincerely  and  affectionately, 

P. 


290  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1791 

To  L.  Collings,  JJlsq.,  as  to  the  Expedition  against  Tippoo  Saih. 

St.  James's  Square,  August  1,  1791. 
...  I  kno-w  Tery  well  that  great  military  success  ■will  cover 
a  multitude  of  political  sins.  The  glory  of  it  will  go  to  the  general ; 
the  plunder,  if  there  be  any,  to  the  army  ;  the  profit  to  the  con- 
tractors. But  what  will  the  public  get  by  it  ?  Debt,  beggary,  and 
ruin.  If  the  reverse  should  happen,  if  there  should  be  no  success  ; 
or  if,  without  supposing  a  direct  defeat  in  the  field,  the  war  should 
be  protracted,  I  believe  I  may  leave  you  to  your  reflections.  Upon 
paper,  I  must  own,  the  enterprise  looks  as  if  it  could  hardly  fail, 
supposing  all  the  parties  to  do  their  utmost  to  falfil  their  engage- 
ments ;  and  Tippoo  must  submit.  Yet  we  had  better  means  in  the 
preceding  year,  and  he  was  then  taken  by  surprise.  In  Leaden- 
hall  Street  the  expectation  of  a  peace  is  much  relied  on.  If  it  be 
made  in  consequence  of  orders  from  home,  it  must  be  disgraceful, 
and  if  disgraceful,  dangerous.  It  is  not  safe  to  declare,  in  the  face 
of  India,  that  Tippoo  is  superior  to  you.  For  the  afiairs  of  this  part 
of  the  world,  I  must  refer  you  to  the  newspapers.  With  respect  to 
France,  I  can  tell  you  with  confidence,  I  might  almost  say  with  cer- 
tainty, that  it  promises  to  be  the  most  flourishing  country  in  the 
world,  excepting  North  America.  I  cannot  answer  for  the  event  of 
external  violence.  Contrary  winds  may  retard  the  voyage ;  a 
tempest  may  sink  the  stoutest  ship  ;  all  human  skill  may  be  over- 
powered by  the  force  of  the  elements.  But  these  are  accidents 
beyond  the  reach  of  calculation.  The  National  Assembly  have  done 
everything,  in  my  opinion,  that  brave  and  wise  men  could  do 
to  serve  their  country.  I  have  lately  been  there,  and  am  sure 
of  what  I  say.  Now,  my  good  friend,  I  beg  of  you  not  to  think 
yourself  too  old  or  too  far  off  to  take  any  interest  in  these  affairs. 
Why  should  j/om  not  visit  England  once  more,  as  well  as  Joseph 
Fowke  ?  I  intend  to  give  up  all  my  hopes  the  moment  they 
cut  off  my  head,  and  not  sooner.  This  it  is  to  be  young  and 
sanguine.  I  can  easily  conceive  what  Mackenzie's  situation  must  be, 
and  I  feel  for  him  much  more  deeply  than  I  believe  he  thinks  I  do. 
Yet  his  day  is  not  past,  whatever  mine  may  be  ;  and  even  I  do  not 
despair.     You  may  write  to  me  hereafter  under  cover  to  David 

Godfrey,  Esq.,  Terrace,  Adelphi,  London. 

Yours, 

To  J.  Bristow,  Esq.  ^-  ^■ 

Dear  Bristow, — I  leave  this  letter  open  for  your  perusal,  which  is 
all  that  it  is  worth.  I  have  no  intelligence,  and  my  reflections  are 
good  for  nothing.     I  wish  you  could  get  me  an  exact  account,  or  at 


1791]  PRIVATE  LETTERS.  297 

least  a  tolerable  estimate,  of  the  expense  of  this  -war  in  all  its  parts. 
Since  we  are  to  be  reimbursed  by  our  conquests,  I  should  like  to 
know  what  we  have  paid  for  them. 

Tours, 

P.  F. 

To  Viscountess  Palmerston. 

Sheen,  December  10,  1791. 
Dear  Lady  Palmerston, — In  the  course  of  my  last  journey  and 
voyage  from  Paris,  I  said  to  myself,  having  nobody  else  to  speak  to, 
and  in  the  language  of  Mr.  Wraxall,  '  Is  there  any  power  to  compel, 
or  eloquence  to  persuade,  or  temptation  to  seduce  me  to  travel  any 
farther  on  the  surface  of  this  terraqueous  globe  ?  Have  I  not 
suffered  everything  that  can  be  suffered  by  land,  by  water,  and 
by  air  ?  '  In  short,  the  only  elem.ent  that  had  done  me  no 
mischief  was  fire  ;  so  I  determined  to  stick  by  the  side  of  it,  and 
never  stir  out  till  the  sun  himself  came  to  invite  me,  which  you 
know  very  well  is  not  to  be  expected  before  Midsummer.  One 
would  think  there  was  a  spell  upon  pious  resolutions.  If  I  had 
determined  to  hang  myself,  not  one  mortal  lady  in  Hampshire 
would  have  said  a  word  to  prevent  me  ;  whereas  the  moment 
I  resolve  to  act  like  a  prudent  person  and  take  care  of  my  constitu- 
tion, some  goddess  immediately  descends  from  the  machine,  and 
with  a  pair  of  scissors,  like  Fate,  cuts  the  thread  of  my  resolution. 
Tou  will  observe  with  pleasure,  and  I  hope  remember  with  grati- 
tude, that  I  am  the  first  person  who  ever  thought  of  comparing  you 
to  Lachesis  or  Atropos,  or  Mrs.  Culverden  to  Tisiphone.  Anybody 
but  me  would  have  talked  to  you  about  the  Graces,  and  sent  you  to 
your  glass  for  the  picture  of  Aglaia.  But  I  shall  certainly  break 
my  neck  if  I  don't  come  down  from  these  altitudes  directly.  In 
plain  English,  then,  permit  me  to  inform  you  that  all  power  is 
a  trust,  that  the  abuse  of  power  leads  to  a  revolution,  and  that,  if 
you  are  not  very  kind  to  me  when  you  have  me  in  yours,  as  I 
foresee  you  will  ere  it  be  long,  I  shall  unquestionably  rebel ;  so  you 
may  find  yourself  dethroned  when  you  little  think  of  it,  and  your 
house  and  family  converted  into  a  republic.  Mrs.  Culverden  may 
stand  a  siege  if  she  pleases,  but  shall  be  taken  by  storm,  and 
I  know  exactly  where  I  shall  bang  her.  It  depends  entirely 
on  your  own  prudence  and  moderation  to  avert  these  unhappy 
omens,  and  to  keep  me  and  all  those  whom  I  represent  steady  in 
our  attachment  to  your  person  and  government  on  the  same  prin- 
ciples on  which  I  am  at  present,  dear  madam. 

Your  most  dutiful  servant, 

P.  Feancis. 


298  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1792 

To  Viscountess  Palmerston. 

St.  James's  Square,  March  10,  1792. 
Dear  Madam, — If  you  were  butlnalf  as  well  accustomed  to  receive 
favours  as  you  are  to  confer  them,  you  would  accept  of  the  enclosed,^ 
as  I  am  sure  you  will  wear  it  with  a  better  grace  than  any  lady  of 
■your  acquaintance ;  though  very  much  tempted,  I  dare  not  say 
of  mine.  After  providing  for  your  appearance,  you  will  see  that 
I  have  not  neglected  a  more  substantial  consideration.^  The  beauty 
that  is  adorned  must  be  supported.  Eat  freely,  dear  madam,  and 
remember,  while  you  are  eating,  that  I  do  not  confine  myself 
to  empty  praise  when  I  assure  you  that  I  am,  with  as  much 
admiration  as  I  can  spare,  as  well  as  with  all  possible  attachment, 

Tour  most  dutiful  servant, 

P.  Feancjs. 
To  Messrs.  Richardson  and  Biddell,  Glasgow. 

St.  James's  Square,  April  19,  1792. 
Gentlemen, — I  have  received  the  favour  of  your  letter  of  the  13th 
instant.  The  burgesses  of  Glasgow  and  of  Scotland  in  general,  as 
I  understand  you,  have  two  principal  objects  in  view  ■  first,  that 
certain  magistrates  and  councillors  in  the  burghs,  who  are  succes- 
sively elected  by  one  another,  and  who  are  possessed  of  or  entrusted 
with  the  receipt  of  alargepublicrevenue,  of  which  atpresent  they  give 
no  account,  should  be  obliged  to  account  for  the  use  and  application 
of  that  revenue.  This,  if  I  state  it  properly,  is  a  claim  of  such  clear 
unquestionable  right,  as  no  man,  even  in  these  times,  would  venture 
to  deny,  however  he  might  be  determined  to  resist  it.  Accordingly, 
you  will  find  that,  in  the  debate  last  night,  in  which  your  cause  was 
ably  and  vigorously  supported  by  Mr.  Sheridan  and  Mr.  Fox,  your 
right  was  fully  acknowledged  and  completely  defeated. 

Tour  second  object  is,  that  the  same  persons  who  alienate  and 
misapply  the  public  property  without  account,  and  who  elect  them- 
selves, shall  not  elect  your  representatives,  or  rather  their  own,  to 
sit  in  Parliament,  but  that  the  members  who  serve  for  burghs  shall 
be,  as  they  ought  to  be,  elected  by  the  burgesses.  To  this  claim, 
both  in  right  and  fact,  a  direct  negative  was  given  last  night, 
without  the  smallest  qualification  or  reserve :  it  was  treated  as  a 
wiclced  attempt  to  carry  anarchy  and  confusion  into  Scotland.  Tou 
know  better  than  I  do  whether  such  a  measure  is  likely  to  be  at- 
tended with  such  an  effect,  and  whether  the  burgesses  of  Scotland 

'  A  favour. 

'  Bi'ide-calce.  The  occasion,  I  conclude,  was  that  of  the  marriage  of  hia 
fourth  daughter,  Mary,  this  year,  to  Mr.  Godshall  Johnson,  of  Putney. 


1793]  REFORM  IN   PARLIAMENT.  299 

who  have  petitioned  Parliament  on  this  subject  have  nothing  in 
view  but  the  ruin  of  their  country.  If  I  may  judge  from  the  names 
and  situation  of  many  of  those  who  compose  the  councils,  their 
stake  in  the  welfare  of  Scotland  is  not  so  considerable  as  yours.  In 
England,  where  I  h'ave  everything  to  lose  and  nothing  to  gain  by 
confusion,  I  am  resolved  to  promote,  to  the  utmost  of  my  power,  a 
measure  founded  on  the  same  principles  with  that  which  some 
persons  here  have  had  the  courage  to  brand  with  the  foulest  epithets. 
You  say  you  are  '  determined  to  persevere  with  spirit  and  firmness 
until  you  obtain  your  just  and  lawful  rights.'  Do  so.  I  have  sat 
too  long  in  Parliament  to  be  discouraged  by  occasional  defeats,  or 
to  be  frightened  with  hard  words.  They  are  the  common  rubbish 
with  which  persons  who  have  the  advantage  of  higher  ground  and 
station  find  it  easy  to  pelt  the  people  who  are  under  them.  I  do 
not  much  lament  the  decision  of  last  night,  because  I  think  that 
every  denial  of  right  and  justice  tends  to  ensure  to  us,  sooner  or 
later,  a  general  comprehensive  remedy  for  that  grand  original  evil 
which  is  the  source  of  all  particular  abuses :  I  mean  the  present 
state  of  the  pretended  representation  of  the  people  in  Parliament. 
Having  given  you  my  opinion,  you  may  be  sure  of  my  resolution. 

I  am,  &c., 

P.  Feancis. 

To  Mr.  Gollings,  m  India. 

St.  James's  Square,  February,  1793. 
My  dear  neighbour  Oollings, — Tour  letter  of  March  1,  1792, 
begins  with  certain  words  which  I  dare  say  you  have  totally  dis- 
missed from  your  memory.  I  shall  repeat  them  t^  you  now,  in  order 
to  set  you  right  about  some  ideas  of  mine  which  I  see  you  have 
mistaken.  Tou  say,  '  Tou  write  stoutly,  but  me  thinks  rather  petu- 
lantly.' The  passage  in  my  letter  of  August,  1791,  to  which  the 
remark  of  yours  must  allude,  viz.,  that  I  was  still  condemned  to  keep 
my  eyes  turned  towards  India,  was  purely  and  perfectly  figurative. 
I  meant  nothing  but  the  attention  which  my  situation  compelled 
me  to  give  to  the  afiairs  of  India.  As  to  a  local  bodily  removal 
into  that  country,  on  any  terms  that  I  could  submit  to,  I  know  it 
to  be  impossible.  It  neither  was  nor  is  in  my  thoughts.  John 
Bristow's  grand  packet,  for  which  he  has  a  right  to  take  all 
credit  and  merit,  was  not  received  when  I  took  notice  of  my  not 
having  heard  from  him.  I  am  sure  the  observation  was  made 
without  complaint.     Tou  say  vehemently,  '  there  is  not  a  soul  that 

cares  a  d n  for  me,  or  that  ever  writes  to  me.'     And  you  say 

this  to  me,  and  your  conscience  gives  you  no  trouble  on  the  subject ! 


300  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1793 

This  it  is  to  have  a  hard,  heart  and  a  feeble  memory.  But  take 
courage.  I  am  doing  all  I  can  to  forget  India  and  everything  that 
belongs  to  it.  Your  reproaches  hereafter  shall  not  be  so  ill  founded 
as  they  have  been.  Yet  I  do  not  like  and  cannot  allow  myself  to 
think  it  impossible  that  we  should  ever  meet  in  this  best  of  worlds. 
On  the  subject  of  Indian  affairs,  I  promise  and  vow  that  I  shall 
never  trouble  you,  or  anybody  else,  again.  In  this  age,  events  of 
every  kind  seem  to  happen  on  purpose  to  defeat  calculation  and  to 
make  a  jest  of  human  wisdom.  Having  found  out  at  last  that  I 
am  no  favourite  of  fortune,  I  have  sincerely  and  bond  fide,  without 
affectation  and  without  ill-humour,  surrendered  all  my  pretensions 
to  the  honours  and  profits  of  the  present  system  of  human  affairs. 
I  have  distressed  myself  considerably  by  going  into  Parliament  with  a 
view  to  preferment ;  I  find,  by  sorrowful  experience,  that  I  could 
not  have  taken  a  worse  road  to  it.  So  much  for  India.  As  to  our 
domestic  situation,  I  can  only  tell  you  that  all  the  politics  that  I 
am  concerned  in  are  blank  and  unpromising — ruptures,  separa- 
tion, nonsense,  misery,  and  falsehood !  Ireland  in  all  appearance 
setting  up  for  herself!  Tumults,  insurrections,  and  treason 
denounced  to  exist  in  all  parts  of  this  kingdom,  and  to  cure  these 
petty  disorders,  a  foreign  war  prescribed  by  the  faculty  and  sup- 
posed to  be  extremely  palatable  to  the  patient.  I  am  proceeding 
however  in  the  same  path,  though  not  in  all  the  same  company,  in 
which  I  set  out  in  Parliament.  Whither  it  may  lead  me  I  know  not ; 
most  probably  to  final  inactivity  and  retirement.  Fortunately  for 
me,  I  have  some  resources  in  my  own  mind  and  in  domestic 
circumstances  of  which  I  cannot  be  deprived  by  any  of  those  events 
which  are  called  disappointments.  Having  already  had  my  share 
of  them,  I  know  exactly  how  they  affect  me. 

If  you  happen  to  meet  with,  or  should  write  to,  my  old  friend 
and  quondam  protege  Claude  Martin,  I  wish  you  would  take  some 
pains  to  keep  me  alive  in  his  memory  and  good-will.  I  declare  to 
you  seriously  that  I  have  not  strength  or  spirits  enough  to  do  it 
myself.  I  shall  do  my  duty  to  Bristow  to  the  best  of  my  power, 
but  in  truth  I  can  do  nothing  now  with  alacrity.  They  who  follow 
the  stream  need  only  touch  the  water  with  their  oars.  I  am  cursed 
with  adversity  both  of  wind  and  tide.  To  labour  hard  and  for  ever 
and  to  make  no  way  is  enough  to  break  a  stouter  heart  than  mine. 
A  war  with  France,  I  am  inclined  to  think,  is  inevitable,  because, 
on  our  part,  provoked  and  intended.  Assuredly  it  will  not  be  con- 
ducted with  the  common  hostilities  nor  attended  with  the  common 
calamities  of  war.  Great' reliance  is  placed  on  the  apparent  weak- 
ness of  France  and  the  distress  and  confusion  of  their  affairs.     But 


1793J  END  OF  IMPEACHMENT.  301 

events  liave  hitlierto  given  the  lie  to  speculations,  because  sufficient 
allowance,  I  suppose,  lias  not  been  made  for  tbe  unconquerable 
powers  of  entbusiasm  and  the  inexhaustible  resources  of  despair. 

To  JEclward  Tilglunan,  Esq.,  Philadelphia. 

London,  April  27,  17fl3. 

Dear  Sir, — This  letter  of  introduction  will  be,  I  hope,  ere  long 
delivered  to  you  by  one,  who  is  to  be  accompanied  by  another,  of 
my  oldest  and  most  intimate  friends.  The  first  is  Mr.  David  God- 
frey, the  second  Mr.  James  Archdekin,  and  they  were  both  of  them 
closely  and  cordially  united  with  our  dear  and  ever  to  be  lamented 
Richard  Tilghman.  They  are  literally  going  to  look  at  America  for 
a  few  weeks,  and  by  no  means  to  seek  their  fortune  there.  They 
look  forward  to  emergencies  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic  which  may 
possibly  determine  them  to  provide  a  retreat  on  the  other.  Such 
thoughts  rarely  enter  into  the  minds  of  wealthy  men,  unless  their 
minds  are  above  their  fortune.  But  to  themselves  I  leave  it  to  ex- 
plain to  you  their  motives,  views,  and  projects  in  this  expedition. 
I  pray  you  to  show  them  attention  for  my  sake,  and  I  recommend 
it  to  you  to  cultivate  their  friendship  for  your  own. 

Be  so  kind  as  to  inform  Mr.  Godfrey  exactly  of  the  flourishing 
state  of  my  acres  in  Pennsylvania,  and  give  him  a  well-argued 
opinion  on  the  question  of  keeping  or  selling  them  ;  I  do  not  think 
I  shall  ever  be  able,  though  marvellously  disposed,  to  cultivate  them 
with  my  own  hands. 

And  so,  citizen,  farewell. 

P.  Francis. 

The  impeachment  of  Hastings  came  at  last  to  an  end  in 
1795.  On  April  23,  in  that  year,  he  '  was  commanded 
to  present  himself  in  Westminster  Hall,  when  the  Chan- 
cellor informed  him  that  he  was  acquitted  by  a  large 
majority,  and  he  was  consequently  discharged.'  The 
public  interest  in  the  matter  had  long  ceased,  and  the 
result  was  accepted  almost  as  a  matter  of  course.  The 
managers  themselves  were  weary  of  it,  as  Burke's  last 
letters  show.  Francis — and  he  in  all  probabihty  alone, 
as  we  have  seen — was  active  and  unremitting  to  the  end. 
But,  in  spite  of  all  his  pertinacity,  the  '  vendetta '  of 
twenty  years  was   now   terminated.     It  had  made   of 


302  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1795 

Hastings  a  disappointed  and  impoverished  man.  It  had 
deprived  Francis,  through  the  hostilities  which  his  in- 
veteracy had  excited,  of  the  great  object  which  had  long 
filled  his  imagination,  that  of  succeeding  Hastings  in  the 
chief  government  of  India.  Both  the  rivals  had  many- 
years  of  life  still  before  them  ;  but  nothing  of  importance 
remained  for  either  to  accomplish.  They  had  to  sit  by, 
haunted  by  the  importunate  shadow  of  what  might  have 
been,  and  see  the  business  of  the  world,  of  which  they  still 
felt  themselves  most  capable,  transacted  by  younger  men. 
Each,  in  his  heart,  must  have  known  that  he  had  drawn 
the  visitation  on  himself.^ 

'  With  reference  to  the  sentiments  of  Francis  on  Parliamentary  Reform, 
see  a  remarkable  passage  in  'Junius  Identified,'  p.  190.  Junius  had  opposed 
the  disfranchisement  of  decayed  boroughs  as  an  act  of  injustice.  Francis 
had  twice  voted  against  Pitt's  plans  of  reform,  which  were  mainly  based  on 
such  disfranchisement.  It  was  only  on  the  occasion  of  Grey's  motion  that 
Francis  declared  that  he  had  '  something  to  retract : '  avowed  the  '  doubts 
and  apprehensions '  (the  words  used  by  Junius  also)  which  had  beset  him 
on  the  subject  of  Reform,  and  announced  his  conversion. 

In  completing  this  division  of  the  life  of  Francis,  the  deaths  of  two  of  his 
intimates  may  be  noted,  though  I  have  not  found  any  allusion  of  his  own  to 
them.  Major  Baggs  died  in  1792 ;  see  note  at  the  end  of  this  volume. 
Christopher  Doyly  died  in  Curzon  Street,  1795.  I  have  not  noticed,  in  the 
Francis  papers,  any  record  of  a  renewal  of  their  ancient  friendship,  after 
his  return  from  India. 


1797]  303 


CHAPTEE  IV. 

PARLI AMENTA  EY   LIFE — continued. 
1797—1806. 

Parliamentary  Secession  of  Fox — Correspondence  respecting  it — ' 
FrieadsHp  witli  the  Thanets — Returned  for  Appleby,  1802 — Intimacy 
■mtli  the  Prince  of  Wales — Pears  of  Invasion — Break  up  of  the 
Addington  Ministry — Pamily  Affairs — Death  of  his  two  daughters 
and  wife — Visits  to  the  Continent — Lord  Grenville  and  Fox  in  OfiSce 
— Disappointments — Knighted. 

Francis  did  not  succeed  in  obtaining  a  seat  in  the  House 
of  Commons  at  the  general  election  of  1798.  He  was 
defeated  in  a  contest  for  Tewkesbury,  by  the  influence  of 
the  '  freemen,'  exercised  in  favour  of  Martin.  He  was 
consequently  forced,  for  a  time,  to  stand  aside  and  watch 
the  game.  But  his  social  connection  with  the  leaders  of 
the  Whig  party  remained  in  full  force,  and  his  temporary 
exclusion  coincided,  in  point  of  date,  with  the  self-exclu- 
sion of  the  chief  of  that  party  :  the  famous  '  secession '  of 
Charles  Fox  from  Parliament  and  from  the  leadership. 

Lord  Eussell  gives  in  his  biography  of  the  statesman 
(chap,  li.)  the  reasons  which  induced  Mr.  Fox  to  take 
this  step  immediately  after  the  rejection  in  1797  of  Grey's 
motion  for  parliamentary  reform.  It  was  a  most  un- 
popular measure  with  the  bulk  of  his  friends.  '  In 
argument,'  says  his  noble  biographer,  '  he  was  obhged  to 
admit  that  secession  was  either,  as  Pitt  described  it,  a 
retreat  to  the  Mons  Sacer,  with  a  view  to  demand  by 
force  what  has  not  been  yielded  to  persuasion,  or  a  volun- 


304  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1798 

tary  abandonment  of  the  pursuit  of  the  great  objects  of 
his  pubhc  hfe.'  Probably  indolence  and  disappointment, 
and  love  of  home  and  its  enjoyments,  weighed  the  scale 
in  its  favour  down.  Francis  was  among  those  who  ex- 
pressed in  the  strongest  terms  their  disapproval  of  his 
conduct  in  thus  abandoning  the  cause.  But  it  is  impos- 
sible not  to  see,  from  what  remains  of  Francis's  corre- 
spondence, that  he  had  a  personal  grudge  against  the  chief 
of  his  party  which  influenced  him  more  strongly  than 
difference  of  opinion  on  this  particular  step.  He  had 
never  enjoyed  the  same  familiarity  with  Fox  which  had 
united  him  for  so  many  years  with  Burke.  His  self- 
opinion  seems  to  have  been  early  wounded  by  some  real 
or  imaginary  neglect  of  his  claims,  which  certainly,  in  the 
ordinary  political  sense,  rating  resolute  adherence  to  a 
leader  and  a  cause  as  the  highest  of  merits,  were  by  no 
means  inconsiderable. 

Francis  has  preserved  a  transcript,  in  his  own  hand,  of 
a  letter  of  Fox  to  Grey  of  this  period,  whicjh,  so  far  as  1 
know  has  not  been  printed.  I  am  not  aware  to  what 
particular  meeting  of  the  friends  of  the  cause  it  refers  ; 
but  in  the  next  month — May  1798 — came  off  the  famous 
dinner  of  the  Whig  Club,  at  which  the  revolutionary 
toasts  were  proposed  which  cost  Fox  his  privy  councUlor- 
ship  and  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  liis  lord  lieutenancy. 

St.  Anne's  Hill,  Tuesday,  April  8,  1798. 

Dear  Grey, — I  send  you  the  letter  with  my  signature.  But  surely 
it  will  be  scarcely  discreet  to  make  any  use  of  it,  unless  it  is  settled 
previously  what  proposal  is  to  be  made  at  the  meeting,  and  by 
whom.  It  must  be  remembered  that  I  have  nothing  to  propose, 
though  very  ready  to  acquiesce  in  anything  that  a  few  of  you, 
whom  I  need  not  name,  may  think  right. 

There  is  one  expression  in  the  letter  which  looks  as  if  it  were  to 
be  decided  at  the  meeting  whether  or  not  secession  is  to  be  adhered 
to  ;  but  I  hope  this  not  so  to  be  understood,  for  I  should  not  like  a 
formal  decision  upon  this  question  either  way.  I  wish  to  stay  away 
myself,  but  not  to  keep  away  any  one  who  thinks  fit  to  attend ;  and 


1797]  SECESSION  OF  FOX.  S05 

any  measure  tliat  would  tend  to  make  the  absentees  and  attenders 
appear  to  be  less  of  one  party  and  more  distinct  from  one  another 
would,  in  my  opinion,  be  the  worst  possible,  if  indeed,  in  the  present 
state  of  things,  there  is  any  good  or  bad,  or  better  or  worse.  The 
salmon  is  arrived. 

Tours  ever, 

C.  J.  Fox. 
Francis  to  Fox. 

November  16,  1797. 

My  dear  Mr.  Fox, — I  am  going  to  add  my  little  mite  to  the  un- 
bounded waste  of  zeal  which  has  been  thrown  away  upon  the  pubhc. 
Receive  it,  I  entreat  you,  not  as  the  public  has  done  yours,  but  with 
kindness  and  indulgence.  I  am  not  afraid  of  repulse  or  suspicion. 
I  confide  in  myself  when  I  say  that  your  mind  is  not  made  to 
beheve  that,  in  submitting  my  own  opinion  to  you  on  any  subject,  I 
can  have  a  motive  that  is  not  united  with  firiendship  and  attachment 
to  you. 

You  have  declared  that,  for  the  future,  it  was  not  your  intention 
to  attend  ParHament  so  constantly  as  you  have  done.  I  have  no 
thoughts  of  combating  now  the  propriety  or  necessity  of  that  resolu- 
tion, though  undoubtedly  I  should  have  been  fearful  of  advising  it, 
while  it  was  open  to  deliberation.  The  question  is,  Does  this  decla- 
ration at  aU  restraiu  you  from  attending  in  Parliament  when, 
according  to  your  own  judgment,  the  occasion  calls  for  it  ?  I  say,  on 
the  contrary,  it  binds  you  to  return.  In  reserving  the  right,  you 
made  an  engagement  and  created  an  expectation.  He  who  says  he 
will  do  less  affirms  virtually  that  he  will  do  something.  If  you 
never  attend,  you  break  your  promise.  This  is  clear.  But  who  is 
to  judge  of  the  time  and  the  occasion  ?  Tourself,  certainly.  Then 
consider  whether  the  most  powerful  call  upon  the  duty  of  a 
member  of  the  House  of  Commons  be  not  to  guard  and  defend  his 
constituents  to  the  utmost  of  his  ability,  when  their  property  is  to 
be  given  away,  and  specially  to  prevent  its  being  given  away  by 
wholesale.  Twenty  millions  more  are  to  be  raised,  and  taxes  in 
proportion.  Can  you  state  a  case,  or  an  exigency,  more  pressing, 
in  the  sense  of  your  own  declaration,  or  more  urgent  to  recall  you  to 
the  exercise  of  the  right  reserved  and  of  the  duty  excepted  out  of  it  ? 
To  give  and  grant  the  money  of  the  people  is  not  only  the  ofiice  but 
the  essence  of  a  House  of  Commons.  Can  you  relinquish  your 
share  in  that  office  while  you  belong  to  the  forms  of  it  ? 

Many  collateral  arguments  occur  to  me ;  but  they  are  such  as,  on 
your  principles,  might  possibly  be  answered ;  that  we  are  creatures 
of  habit ;  that  iaterest  is  kept  alive  by  action  ;  that  new  figures  will 

VOL.   II.  X 


306  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1798 

occupy  the  scene  ;  and  tliat  the  merit  of  services  discontinued,  and 
no  longer  seen,  will  soon  be  forgotten.  Ingratitude,  I  confess,  is  a 
torment :  but  oblivion  is  a  death. 

Take  what  I  say  in  good  part,  whether  you  regard  it  or  not ;  and 
so  farewell. 

Francis  likewise  preserved  copies  of  letters  which  he 
wrote  to  Georgiana  Duchess  of  Devonshire,  in  the  same 
year,  on  the  same  subject,  namely,  that  of  the  injury  done 
to  the  party  by  Fox's  secession.  One  of  the  letters  of 
the  Duchess  accompanies  them.  The  correspondence 
is  curious  and  interesting,  evincing  the  style  of  argu- 
mentative, metaphysical  gallantry  in  which  he  thought 
himself  qualified  to  address  the  Queen  of  the  Whigs.  It 
raises  up  a  vision,  as  of  Junius  in  love  at  sixty.  It  certainly 
required  something  of  that  personal  vanity,  which  was  an 
undoubted  characteristic  of  the  writer,  to  induce  him  to 
read  her  Grace  so  unwelcome  and  apparently  so  uncalled 
for  a  lecture.  But  these  letters  illustrate  something  more  ; 
that  true-hearted,  passionate  friendship,  for  such  is  really 
the  only  phrase  to  express  the  sentiment,  entertained  by 
the  Duchess  for  the  great  Whig  statesman.  If  Francis 
imagined  that  he  could  win  his  way  to  her  favour  by 
convincing  her  of  her  error  in  overvaluing  Fox,  he  was 
probably  under  a  great  mistake. 

Francis  to  the  Duchess  of  Devonshire. 

November  24,  1798. 

I  returned  to  town  on  Wednesday,  and  found  your  benevolent 
letter  of  the  17th  waiting  for  me  impatiently.  In  the  first  place,  I 
was  charmed  with  the  size  of  it :  but,  to  show  you  that  I  know  how 
to  command  myself,  and  that  I  am  not  invariably  hurried  away  by 
the  impression  of  the  moment,  I  shall  suppress  all  my  compliments, 
and  proceed  to  business. 

As  long  as  you  are  wishing  for  me,  I  know  who  you  are  thinking 
of ;  and,  though  I  see  with  a  breaking  heart  that  I  am  not  upper- 
most in  your  thoughts,  still  I  defy  you,  with  all  your  airs,  to  write 
to  anyone  for  two  hours  without  thinking  of  him  for  two  minutes. 


1798]     LETTERS  TO  THE  DUCHESS  OP  DEVONSIHRE.        307 

Tant  gagni  au  moins :  so  like  a  true  gamester,  I  shall  pocket  what  I 
win,  and  wrangle  for  the  rest.  The  generous  passions  are  always 
eloquent,  especially  on  a  favourite  suhject.  Tou  love  him  with  all 
his  faults,  because  they  are  his.  I  wish  I  was  one  of  them.  I  should 
have  good  company,  and  share  in  your  regard.  Since  that  cannot 
be,  I  have  nothing  left  for  it  but  to  envy  him  for  the  first  time,  and 
to  hate  him  as  I  used  to  do,  con  amore.  Tou  say  you  will  never  be 
detached  from  his  standard ;  a  la  bonne  hewre  :  but  where  is  it,  or  who 
has  thrown  it  down  ?  If  it  exists  anywhere  but  in  your  own  fertile 
fancy,  I  desire  nothing  better  than  to  repair  to  it  in  your  society, 
and  to  fight  under  it,  as  I  have  done  for  fourteen  years,  not  only 
without  pay  but  without  hope.  Tou  affirm  with  an  air  of  triumph 
that  anyone  who  thinks  a  party  can  exist  without  him  will  find 
themselves  mistaken.  I  believe  so ;  but  then,  is  it  really  a  subject 
for  exultation  ?  Helas,  belle  dame,  faiirai  quelque  chose  a  vous  dire  ; 
but  not  till  time  and  many  prayers  of  mine  as  well  as  your 
own  have  inclined  your  heart  unto  wisdom. 

I  am  overwhelmed  with  consternation  at  the  multitude  of  beauti- 
ful things  you  say  about  Gr.  T — y.'  Has  he,  or  any  match  for 
him,  ever  said,  heard,  or  understood,  that  he  aspired  to  be  the 
leader,  or  that  he  thought  himself  qualified  to  fill  the  seat,  and  to 
supply  the  place,  of  C.  F.  ?  Far  from  it.  I  know  that  he  has  said 
and  done  everything,  which  depended  on  him,  to  prevent  the  vacancy. 
But  I  hope  you  will  allow  that  they  who  are  forsaken  (without 
concert,  notice,  or  warning  of  any  kind)  have  a  right  to  do  the  best 
they  can  for  themselves.  God  knows,  that  is  very  little  indeed.  Tou 
say  it  is  presumption  to  suppose  that  he  can  do  without  Fox.  If 
Mr.  Fox  has  left  his  friends  and  party  for  the  special  purpose  of 
convincing  them  that  they  cannot  do  without  him,  and  that  it  is  in 
vain  for  them  to  try,  I  confess  that  the  experiment  has  not  answered 
completely.  But  we  knew  it  beforehand,  and  wanted  no  such  evi- 
dence. He  who  cannot  look  forward  without  despair  must  and  will 
look  back  with  indignation.  Tou  expect  and  you  encourage  me  to 
deal  frankly  with  you.  Tou  give  your  own  sentiments  freely,  and 
with  an  openness  for  which  I  am  bound  to  you  for  ever.     Shall 

'  George  Tierney.  His  entrance  into  Parliament,  as  Lord  Brougham 
observes  (Statesmen  of  the  Time  of  George  HI.),  took  place  just  at  the 
period  of  Fox's  secession;  and  the  absence  of  the  regular  chiefs  of  the  , 
Opposition,  and  their  followers,  gave  Mr.  Tierney  a  ready  opening  to  distinc- 
tion upon  his  entering  the  House  of  Commons ;  he  became  at  once,  and  from 
the  necessity  of  the  case,  in  some  sort  the  leader  of  the  Opposition.  Never- 
theless, he,  to  a  certain  extent,  justified  the  distrust  of  the  clear-sighted 
Duchess  by  training  off,  in  1802,  for  a  time,  to  serve  under  Addington. 

X  2 


308  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1798 

I  suffer  in  your  opinion  by  following  your  example  ?  Sooner  than 
incur  that  penalty,  I  am  ready  to  be  persuaded. 

I  really  have  not  seen,  for  no  reason  but  because  it  was  impossible, 
your  dearest,  loveliest,  best  of  sisters ;  but  if  I  live  and  do  well,  I 
shall  have  that  happiness  next  week.  I  shall  soon  know,  by  her 
behaviour,  whether  you  have  spoken  of  me  favourably  or  not.  If  she 
frowns  upon  me,  yon  shall  hear  of  it,  and,  what's  more,  you  shall 
pay  for  it :  that  is,  with  some  of  those  particular  smiles  that  are  pre- 
served for  favourites. 

I  send  the  pamphlet  by  this  post.  It  was  all  true,  though  at 
present  out  of  date.  Stocks  are  falling  again.  It  is  odd,  but  true, 
that  the  higher  they  are  the  less  the  probability  of  selling  the  land 
tax.  I  do  not  believe  that  a  third  of  it  wiU  be  bought,  and  that 
only  by  the  proprietors. 

Pray  tell  me  that  you  are  not  angry  with  me  ;  I  am  mentally 
frightened  at  what  I  have  written.  I  go  to  town  on  Monday,  and 
am  very  much  disposed  to  stay  there  tUl  Thursday.  Two  of  the 
infantry,  my  inseparable  companions,  are  left  carousing  at  Waverley 
Abbey ;  good  living  had  nearly  killed  me. 

I  hope,  as  I  most  devoutly  wish,  that  the  Duke  will  not  find  it 
necessary  to  go  to  Buxton.  If  he  does.  Lord  !  how  I  shall  write  to 
you  out  of  mere  generosity  and  compassion. 

The  Duchess  of  Devonshire  to  Francis. 

November  29,  1798. 
I  am  particularly  vexed  at  having  been  prevented  writing,  lest 
you  should  think  I  was  affronted  or  unworthy  of  your  kindness.  It 
must  be  a  bad  heart  who  could  be  otherwise  than  delighted  (even 
when  differing  from  you)  at  your  warm  and  eloquent  expressions, 
and  a  mind  devoid  of  taste  who  could  relinquish  such  a  correspon- 
dent. But,  besides  having  been  at  a  country  ball,  and  having  had 
a  house  full  of  Derbyshire  swvages,  I  have  been  vexed  to  my  heart's 
core.  Oh  !  my  dear  Mr.  Francis,  you  must  have  spoilt  me,  since  I 
feel  a  pleasure  in  telling  you  how  worried  I  have  been,  though  I 
cannot  tell  you  the  cause,  though  you  can  do  me  no  good,  and 
though  my  poor  heart  has  been  torn  to  pieces.  Ton  know  not 
what  you  have  done  in  taking  some  interest  in  such  a  being  as  I 
am  ;  you  must  often  listen  to  lamentation,  because,  though  in 
reaUty  an  old  woman,  my  heart  and  mind  are  still  childish;  nor  can 
I  encounter  without  pain  a  world  that  is  too  wise  for  me.  I  must 
feel  unkindness  when  I  meet  with  it,  and  anxiety  when  it  presses 
round  me.     Do  not  be  angry  at  my  boring  you  with  all  this  stuff ; 


1798]  FOX  AND  TIERNEY.  309 

indeed,  if  you  knew  me  such  as  I  am,  you  would  know  tliat  I  pay 
you  a  compliment  in  writing  thus. 

How  can  you  suppose  me  angry  for  your  averring  your  opinion  ? 
I  knew  it  long  ago,  and  wished  to  bring  you  to  own  it,  tha;t  I  might 
attack  it,  but,  low  spirits,  which  have  taken  fi-om  me  the  power  of 
writing  for  these  ten  days,  have  also  weakened  my  strength  as  a 
champion.  Ton  are  wrong,  indeed  you  are.  Charles  has,  and 
always  had,  faults  of  heedlessness,  that  may  injure  him,  and  have,  as 
a  statesman,  but  never  as  the  greatest  of  men.  Who,  at  one  glance, 
took  in  the  view  of  the  French  revolution  ?  Who  saw  its  consequence 
and  warned  us  of  the  inutility  of  opposing  its  progress  ?  Will  not 
posterity  remember  this  and  bless  him  ?  Will  not  they  remember  his 
merciful  wishes  on  the  condemnation  of  Lewis  XVI.,  and  the  various 
times  he  would  have  checked  (and  it  could  have  been  done  then)  our 
wild  career  ?  Who  has  sacrificed  even  his  darling  popularity  to  his 
principles  ?  His  standard  is  in  the  hearts  of  men,  in  my  heart  of 
hearts,  in  your  own,  for  you  are  one  of  those  formed  by  nature 
with  the  fire,  the  animation  that,  I  am  sure,  must  make  you  shrink 
from  any  other  cause. 

I  blame  not  George  Tierney ;  but  he  is  no  great  naan ;  a  man  who 
is  only  bright  in  the  absence  of  superior  merit  is  in  the  right  to 
make  use  of  his  opportunity,  for  it  will  not  last  long.  No,  would  I 
were  a  man,  to  unite  my  talents,  my  hopes,  my  fortune,  with 
Charles's,  to  make  common  cause,  and  fall  or  rule,  with  him. 

In  my  mind,  he  is  greater  than  any  splendid  situation  can  make 
him. ;  he  has  warned  us  of  danger ;  he  has  pointed  the  relief,  and 
had  he  had  the  voice  of  the  charmer,  he  could  have  done  no  more. 
Being  no  longer  of  any  use,  he  retired,  and  his  retirement  has,  I 
think,  opened  more  eyes  than  any  other  measure  could  have  done. 
The  extreme  fretful  dislike  my  Pittite  friends  express  to  the  seces- 
sion proves  to  me  that  they  have  reason  to  fear  it. 

Indeed,  I  was  unjust  to  Tierney  ;  but  I  have  a  proud  spirit,  and 
an  irritable  one,  and  I  could  not  bear  his  supposing  he  could  stand 
alone,  and  avow  his  iatention  as  an  important  fact,  when  I  am  sure 
(and  I  think  you  will  see),  if  he  does  entirely  detach  himself,  he 
will  either  sink  into  obUvion  or  joia  the  minister. 

The  confidence  of  men  is  with  Pitt ;  they  respect  him,  as  often 
a  wife  does  her  husband ;  think  him  a  very  disagreeable  fellow,  but 
a  good  manager  of  their  views  and  happiness  ;  and  now,  though 
they  think  he  has  been  going  and  going  on  too  far,  yet  they  still 
cling  to  their  spouse,  lest  the  separation  or  divorce  should  bring  on 
immediate  ruin ;  for  they  have  given  up  all  their  settlements,  join- 
ture, and  even  pin-money  into  his  hands ;    but,  whilst  they  are 


310  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS,  [1798 

mingled  in  the  interests  of  il  caro  sjposo,  their  hearts  are  -with 
Charles.  He  is  not  rich  enough  for  an  elopement  with  him ;  and 
the  husband,  by  extreme  jealousy  and  misrepresentation,  has  hurt 
him  a  little  in  their  opinion  ;  but  still  they  love  him  in  secret.  He 
has  a  heart.  Pitt  has  none.  Now  I  cannot  think  that  they  will  look 
on  Tiemey  or  Lord  Moira,  or  any  pretender  I  know  of,  even  in  the 
tight  of  a  gallant,  or  even  flirt.  They  feel  themselves  in  a  bad  situ- 
ation, and,  if  long  trial  at  last  engages  the  people  to  break  all  con- 
nection with  Pitt,  it  will  be  for  no  petty  intrigue,  but  for  the  lover, 
whose  abilities  and  genius  could  save  them  by  some  vast  effort  of 
genius,  and  whom  they  have  so  long  felt  to  be  their  destiny. 

As  I  am  very  sure  you  do  not  think  that  I,  as  a  woman,  ever 
was,  could  be,  or  am,  in  love  with  Charles  Pox,  you  will  allow  that, 
Ln  fervour,  enthusiasm,  and  devotion,  I  am  a  good  friend,  and  I 
assure  you,  dear  Mr.  Francis,  short  as  our  acquaintance  has  been, 
I  could  and  would  make  a  very  noble  battle  for  you,  should  anybody 
attack  you,  which  hitherto  has  not  been  the  case,  as  all  I  have  seen 
admire  you  as  I  do. 

But  I  want  you  to  explain  the  beginning  of  your  letter  ;  who  am 
I  thinking  of  when  I  write  to  you  ?  I  am  ashamed  of  sending  this 
letter,  so  incorrect,  and  so  mad  as  I  fear  it  is,  but  I  am  really 
extremely  ill  indeed.  I  will  write  again  when  I  am  better ;  but 
pray  write  d  celle  qui  sait  si  lien  appreaier  le  plaisir  de  reoevoir  de 
telles  lettres. 

Adair  went  to-day,  and  the  Lambs,  the  youngest  of  whom  is  the 
finest  creature  I  ever  saw  in  mind  or  body.  I  should  like  to  send 
you  some  verses  of  his  on  Charles  Fox;  they  answer  even  my  idea 
of  praise. 

Tell  me  that  you  are  not  angry,  and  that  I  may  write  on  as  I 
think. 

Form  no  judgment  of  my  dear  sister  ;  for  she  is  ill  and  low,  as 
she  too  often  is  at  the  beginning  of  the  cold  weather. 

Francis  to  the  Duchess  of  Devonshire. 

December  3,  1798. 
Some  cruel  words  in  the  letter  I  received  from  you  yesterday 
have  filled  me  with  deep  and  serious  anxiety,  and  the  more  as  I 
cannot,  if  I  would,  conjecture  what  grief  they  relate  to,  or  what  is 
the  nature  or  extent  of  it.  The  causes  and  objects  of  fear  are 
infinitely  more  formidable  in  the  dark  than  when  they  are  distinctly 
seen :  for  then  they  may  be  measured  and  provided  for.  Do  not 
believe  it  possible  that  your  heart  can  be  '  torn  in  pieces,'  and  that 
mine  can  be  unwounded.     On  a  subject  so  described,  it  would  bo 


1708]  DUCHESS  OF  DEVONSHIRE.  311 

equally  unbecoming  and  useless  in  me  to  ask  a  question,  or  to  solicit 
an  explanation.  Neither  am  I  of  a  curious  temper,  nor  is  it  con- 
sistent with  any  judgment  or  principles  to  encourage  tlie  communi- 
cation of  secrets  unless  it  be  to  answer  some  serviceable  purpose. 
Sorrow  is  certainly  softened  by  participation.  To  sbare  tbe  burden 
is  to  lighten  it ;  but  that  case  supposes  a  long  and  mutual  intimacy, 
and  cannot  be  extended  to  many.  From  woman  to  woman,  it  ia 
most  dangerous.  From  the  good  and  generous  to  the  reserved  or 
the  interested,  it  gives  dominion  at  least,  wMch  may  be  abused. 
Confidence  plants  itself,  and  will  not  grow  by  forcing.  There  may 
be  an  exception,  for  I  have  some  faith  in  sympathy,  unaccountable 
as  all  faith  is.  In  a  few  minutes,  I  have  hated  at  first  sight.  In 
others,  as  you  perhaps  may  think  possible  enough,  I  have  loved 
without  waiting  for  a  second.  But  mere  love  should  beware  of 
confessing  anything  to  its  object,  except  its  own  passion.  The 
party  that  desires  more  intends  to  command.  With  all  these  wise 
considerations  before  you,  it  is  for  yourself  to  judge  whether  any 
service,  or  council,  or  consolation,  of  mine  can  be  of  any  use  to  you. 
If  not,  you  ought  not  to  tell  me ;  for  though  I  know  you  would  be 
safe,  you  do  not.  It  was  not  intended  that  the  affairs  of  this  world 
should  be  governed,  or  the  happiness  of  individuals  secured,  by 
anything  without  prudence.  Virtue  suffers,  and  vice  enjoys,  and 
then  they  change  places.  The  passions  defeat  themselves,  or  make 
us  pay  too  dear  for  their  indulgence.  Talents,  genius,  science,  when 
left  to  themselves  and  their  own  guidance,  very  often  constitute  the 
misery  of  those  who  possess  them.  Religion  comes  late,  and  serves 
only  to  console.  Can  you  endure,  and  will  you  forgive,  these  moral 
airs  in  a  man  who  never  pretended  to  be  anything,  and  to  be  a 
moralist  least  of  all  ?  "With  all  possible  veracity,  I  do  confess  to 
yoa  that  I  am  very  wise  for  everybody  but  myself.  Wisdom  has 
been  beaten  into  me  by  experience,  of  which  no  man,  I  do  believe, 
has  had  more  than  I  have  had,  to  my  cost,  crowded  into  the  same 
number  of  years.  Yet,  born  and  bred  as  I  was  in  adversity,  and 
traversed  by  disappointment  in  every  pursuit  of  my  life,  I  never 
should  have  been  unhappy  if  it  had  been  possible  for  me  never  to 
be  imprudent.  My  mind  is  come  at  last  to  maturity,  of  which  you, 
if  you  please,  and  if  you  want  it,  may  at  all  times  have  the  benefit. 
Should  I  fail  in  judgment,  you  will  find  me  safe,  faithful,  and  discreet. 
Ton  talk  of  the  shortness  of  our  acquaintance  ;  why,  then,  if  all  this 
be  not  mere  moonshine,  and  if  we  are  really  and  seriously  to  be 
friends,  we  have  no  time  to  lose.  The  fact,  however,  is  that  I  have 
known  you  many  years,  and  long  before  the  date  of  our  acquaintance. 
It  is  true  I  saw  you  at  a  great  distance,  and  as  a  bird  of  passage. 


312  MEMOIES   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1708 

Tlie  planet  passed  by,  and  fctiew  nothing  of,  the  poor  astronomer 
who  watched  her  motions  and  waited  for  the  transit.  Hereafter, 
I  hope,  you  will  not  insist  on  my  seeing  you  through  a  telescope. 
Honestly  and  honourably,  I  believe  I  meant  nothing,  but  that,  while 
you  were  writing  to  me,  you  thought  of  nobody  but  C.  F.  Not  at 
Eill,  however,  in  the  sense  of  being  in  love  with  him.  That  idea 
aever  entered  into  my  thoughts.  On  that  subject,  I  begin  to  be 
what  fiue  ladies  call  nettled,  by  your  eternally  answering  me  at  cross 
purposes,  or  telling  me,  as  you  do  in  eifect,  that  six  and  four  do  not 
make  nineteen,  and  as  if  I  had  maintained  the  contrary.  My  allega- 
tion is  that  I  am.  forsaken,  &o.  Tour  defence  is  that  he  is  a  man 
Df  transcendent  abilities,  and  externally  amiable  in  private  life.  I 
idmire  the  discovery,  but  it  gives  nae  no  sort  of  consolation.  Tour 
Detty  ministerial  friends  abuse  the  secession,  and  therefore  you 
jonclude  that  the  minister  suffers  by  it.  No  such  thing.  It  lowers 
iheir  consequence  with  Mm,  it  annihilates  the  moral  value  of  their 
rote  ;  he  wants  no  support,  because  he  is  not  opposed,  and  of  course 
will  not  pay  them  for  their  attendance.  Of  course,  they  abuse  the 
secession.  But,  it  seems,  '  you  are  too  proud  and  too  irritable  to 
hear  that  G.  T.  should  suppose  it  possible  he  could  stand  alone  ! ' 
Why,  what,  in  the  name  of  your  own  idol,  would  you  have  him  do  ? 
Would  you  have  him  hang  himself  because  0.  F.  chooses  to  live  at 
St.  Ann's  Hill  ?  I  feel  like  gummed  velvet,  and  wish  I  could  hate 
jrou  for  half  an  hour,  that  I  might  cut  you  into  a  thousand  little 
stars,  and  live  under  the  canopy, 

December  5,  1798. 
On  Monday  I  wrote  till  I  could  not  see,  without  saying  half  what 
I  intended.  Tou  say  I  must  have  spoilt  you.  Will  you  be  so  good 
as  to  tell  me  what  sort  of  being  you  were  before  you  were  spoiled. 
As  for  me,  it  is  a  clear  case  that  I  must  be  bewitched,  or  I  never 
would  trust  a  declared  enemy  with  such  a  letter  as  the  enclosed. 
Perhaps  the  answer  to  it,  if  it  ever  was  answered,  was  directed  to 
yourself.  I  never  received  any,  nor  ever  heard  a  word  on  the 
subject,  though  I  lived  with  your  friend  a  week  at  "Woburn  in  July. 
.  .  .  Tou  say  '  I  knew  your  opinion  long  ago,  and  wished  to  bring 
you  to  own  it,  that  I  might  attack  it.'  Most  dear  insidious  person  !  I 
had  no  disposition  to  inveigh  against  Mr.  Fox's  conduct,  nor  should  I 
have  said  anything  about  it  if  you  had  not  provoked  me  on  one  side, 
and  ensnared  me  on  the  other.  Will  you  now  be  honourable,  and 
can  you  be  just  ?     Did  smc?i  a  letter  deserve  reo  answer  ?'     Did  s«c7t 


'  Prohahly  his  own  letter  to  Fox,  of  November  1797,  printed  ante. 


1798]  FOX'S  SECESSION.  313 

an  attacliineiit  as  mine  for  so  many  years,  and  with  tte  sacrifice  of 
every  view  of  interest  and  ambition,  with  all  the  et  cmteras  of  friend- 
ships renounced  and  enmities  incurred  for  Irnn,  entitle  me  to  no 
return,  to  no  acknowledgment,  not  a  single  word  at  parting,  but 
to  be  thrown  aside  comme  un  paquet  de  linge  sale  ?  Then,  whose 
advice  does  he  pretend  to  have  followed  ?  Believe  me,  they  were 
none  of  them  qualified  to  advise  upon  such  a  subject.  But  it  was 
a  mere  pretence.  His  own  heart  and  soul  were  bent  upon  St.  Anne's 
Hill.  In  no  case,  however,  and  with  no  secret  council,  ought  he  to 
have  resolved  on  such  a  measure  without  a  general  meeting  and 
consultation  with  all  his  friends.  For  the  general  himself  to  disband 
the  army,  to  turn  his  party  adrift,  and  all  his  duties,  with  Sauve  qui 
pent !  The  Princess  of  Eboli  said  to  Philip  the  Second,  '  Trayciones 
de  vassalos  a  reyes  muchas  se  han  visto,  pero  de  rey  k  vassalos 
nunca  tal.'  He  understands  Spanish,  and  is  the  properest  person 
in  the  world  to  explain  these  words  to  you.  One  remark  more,  and 
then  I  shall  implore  you  to  drop  the  subject.  Ton  say,  '  Would  I 
were  a  man,  to  unite  my  talents,  my  hopes,  my  fortune,  with 
Charles's,  to  make  common  cause,  and  fall  or  rule,  with  him.'  These 
are  the  sentiments  that  belong  to  a  generous  heart.  I  love  you  for 
them,  and  not  at  all  the  less  because  they  have  misled  you.  In  the 
first  place,  if  you  had  your  wish,  you  must  carry  your  talents,  your 
hopes,  and  fortune,  to  St.  Anne's  Hill ;  and  then  I  should  like  to 
know  what  use  you  would  make  of  them.  Tou  always  suppose  that 
there  is  a  standard  to  repair  to,  and  then  you  argue  as  if  ive,  who  in 
fact  have  been  disbanded  in  the  most  ungracious  manner,  were  no 
better  than  deserters.  "With  respect  to  G.  T — y,  it  seems  to  me  that 
your  objection  would  not  be  good,  even  if  the  fact  were  true  as  you 
state  it ;  namely,  that  he  thought  himself  qualified  to  supply  the 
place  of  Mr.  Fox.  He  has  no  such  thoughts  ;  but  if  he  had,  the 
true  objection  lies  against  Mr.  Fox,  who  quits  a  place  which  nobody 
can  fill  when  he  has  left  it.  Gr.  T — y  holds,  and  has  always  held,  a 
certain  rank  and  station  in  the  House  of  Commons,  without  high 
pretensions,  or  aiming  at  more  than  he  can  perfectly  make  good. 
Within  the  limits,  which  his  own  judgment  prescribes  to  him,  and 
far  from  all  competition  with  Mr.  Fox,  he  will  be  heard  and  gene- 
rally respected.  His  opposition  yesterday,  standing  alone  as  he  did, 
totally  unsupported,  does  honour  to  his  personal  character,  as  well 
as  to  his  ability;  and  whether  you  believe  me  or  not,  I  beg  you  to 
remember  what  I  say,  that  he  will  gain  ground  in  the  esteem  of 
the  country,  that  he  will  gain  and  preserve  it. 

I  had  the  honour  of  dining  with  Lord  Besborough  on  Wednesday 
last,  with  Lord  and  Lady  Holland,  Duke  of  Bedford,  Lord  Thanet, 


314  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [179 

Lord  Wycombe,  and  General  Fitzpatrick.  I  thonglit  your  siste 
looked  uncommonly  well  in  health  and  beauty,  and  full  of  spirit 
and  gaiety.  The  dinner  and  conversation  were  very  agreeabL 
Lord  Wycombe '  quite  a  curiosity.  His  eyes  are  wild,  and  some 
times  mad ;  he  is  deaf,  and  his  voice,  of  which  he  does  not  know  th 
sound  or  impression,  is  a  perpetual  discord.  He  talks  much,  an 
with  great  vehemence,  but  answers  nobody,  because  he  hear 
nothing.  Nevertheless,  I  was  delighted  with  his  company,  and  d 
not  remember  to  have  miet  with  anything  so  odd  in  the  deliver] 
or  so  entertaining  in  the  substance,  as  his  conversation.  Havin 
now  vented  all  my  spleen  on  an  ungrateful  topic,  I  humbly  be 
pardon,  and  promise  not  to  do  so  any  more.  Will  you  discard  m 
for  my  honesty,  or  will  you  be  gracious  and  tell  me  that  you  do  nc 
hate  me  because  I  have  received  very  vile  treatment,  or  despise  m 
because  I  have  submitted  to  it  ? 


More  of  Francis's  sentiments  respecting  tlie  '  secession 
and  the  conduct  of  Fox  towards  his  self-devoted  friendi 
will  be  learnt  from  his  '  Character  of  Fox,'  printed  in  th 
Appendix.  But  he  rated  Fox's  natural  powers  as  high  a 
anyone.  '  Speaking  of  Fox '  (says  his  wife),  Francis  saic 
'  His  powerful  understanding  grew  like  a  forest  oak,  not  b 
cultivation,  but  by  neglect.  Pitt  is  a  plant  of  an  inferic 
order,  though  marvellous  in  its  kind.  A  smooth  bar 
and  a  rich  foliage,  with  blossoms  and  flowers  which  dro 
off  themselves,  leaving  the  tree  naked,  to  be  judged  of  by  il 
fruits  only.  He  has  been  educated  more  than  enough,  s 
that  there  is  nothing  spontaneous  or  natural  left.  He  : 
too  poUshed,  too  accurate  in  the  minor  details  of  his  ar 
to  be  a  great  artist  in  anything ;  on  one  occasion  only,  h 
was  sublime,  never,  in  my  hearing,  pathetic.  He  knew  h 
audience,  and  knew  how,  without  eloquence,  to  summo 
all  their  passions  to  his  applause.' 

We  are  now  reduced  to  trace  the  events  of  his  li: 
through  a  few  casually  preserved  letters. 

>  Afterwards  second  Marc[uis  of  Lansdowne. 


1801]  INTIMACY  WITH  LORD  THANET.  315 

To  Mrs.  Francis. 

"Wooturu  Abbey,  July  3,  1801. 
Cara  Sposa, — After  a  damp  ride  to  town,  and  a  long  walk  into 
the  city,  I  dined  very  agreeably  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Godfrey  and 
their  two  nephews,  and  closed  the  campaign  of  Wednesday  much  to 
my  satisfaction  at  Brookes's.  Yesterday  Bob  Adair  provided  me 
with  breakfast  at  his  own  personal  charge,  and  we  proceeded  to  this 
miserable  hovel  in  tolerable  spirits  and  with  great  hunger.  Here 
we  dined  in  society  at  six,  and  remained  at  table  five  hours  con- 
secutively. After  that  we  had  nothing  but  tea  and  bread  and  butter 
till  supper,  and  then  to  bed.  Since  breakfast  this  day,  I  have  had 
literally  nothing  to  eat ;  but  we  are  to  dine  at  four,  which  is  not  far 
off;  and  I  hope  I  shall  be  able  to  hold  out. 

Members  present. 
Duke  of  Bedford  General  Eitzpatrick 

Lord  Thurloe  Ed.  Faulkner 

Mr.  Fox  St.  And.   St.  John. 

Lord  Robert  Spencer  Dudley  North 

Lord  John  Townshend  P.  F. 

Bob  Adair 
and  this  morning.  Lord  Holland. 
And  so  farewell. 

Tours  dutifully. 

To  Lady  Thanet.  (?) 

Brighton,  December  9,  1801. 
Most  dear  Lady, — Brief  let  me  be.  I  arrived  here  yesterday,  and 
dined  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stanhope,  who  were  very  hospitable  and 
good  company  .  .  .  The  Prince,  Lord  and  Lady  Holland,  Mrs. 
Fitzherbert,  are  gone  away  :  but  I  hope  they  will  all  be  back  in  a 
few  days.  So  here  I  must  remain,  and  I  wish  I  had  stayed  at  Hoth- 
field.     Love  to  the  infantry  and  your  own  self. 

About  this  period  of  his  life,  towards  the  end  of  the 
century,  Francis  formed  a  very  close  intimacy  with  Lord 
Thanet  (SackviUe  Tufton,  ninth  earl) ;  then,  although  still 
young,  almost  as  well  known  as  Coke  of  Norfolk  himself, 
in  the  double  capacity  of  a  distinguished  political  reformer 
and  agriculturist.  From  thenceforward  Francis  seems  to 
have  spent  a  great  deal  of  his  disengaged  time  at  Hoth- 
field,  near  Maidstone,  Lord  Thanet's  seat  in  Kent.     Lady 


316  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1801 

Thanet  was  also  his  frequent  correspondent.  She  was  a 
Hungarian,  of  the  (Croatian  ?)  family  of  Bojanowicz.  She 
and  the  Earl  are  chronicled  in  the  Gentleman's  Magazine 
as  having  been  '  remarried,'  at  St.  George's,  Hanover 
Square,  in  February  1811.  Francis  has  preserved  among 
his  papers  the  copy  of  the  following  letter  of  Lord  Thanet 
to  the  King,  written  from  the  King's  Bench  prison,  when 
confined  there  after  the  part  which  he  had  taken  in  the 
matter  of  the  rescue  of  O'Connor  at  the  Kentish  assizes. 
I  am  strongly  inclined  to  suspect  that  Francis  wrote  it 
for  him,  as  it  was  certainly  his  habit  to  exercise  this  pre- 
serving care  chiefly  in  the  case  of  his  own  compositions. 

Lord  Thanet  to  the  King. 

King's  Bench,  May  21,  1799. 
Sir, — Tour  Majesty  is,  I  am  persuaded,  desirous  at  all  times  to 
extend  your  gracious  protection  to  every  class  of  your  subjects  when 
any  of  tliem  become  liable  either  by  indiscretion  or  misfortune  to 
severe  and  excessive  legal  penalties.  My  present  situation  cannot 
be  unknown  to  your  Majesty,  and  will,  I  trust,  be  a  sufScient  apology 
for  the  liberty  I  presume  to  take  in  addressing  your  Majesty  in  this 
form.  I  humbly  beg  leave  to  submit  to  your  Majesty's  consideration 
an  exact  copy  of  the  declaration  made  by  me  in  the  Court  of  King's 
Bench,  and  to  solicit  your  Majesty's  gracious  attention  to  the 
contents  of  it.  If  I  felt  a  consciousness  of  guilt,  I  would  not  pre- 
sume to  appeal  to  your  Majesty  without  confessing  it.  I  do  most 
solemnly  assure  your  Majesty  that  I  am  innocent  of  the  offences 
imputed  to  me  ;  but,  even  if  the  contrary  were  true,  I  humbly  hope 
that  the  extraordinary  circumstances  attending  this  transaction 
would  appear  to  deserve  your  Majesty's  favourable  consideration.  I 
was  tried  on  an  information  by  your  Majesty's  Attorney-General,  and 
convicted  on  evidence  which  the  Court  allowed  to  have  been  contra- 
dictory— for  such  offence  the  judgment  was  understood  to  be  dis- 
cretionary. The  jury  were  not  apprised  that  they  were  trying  a 
crime  for  which  the  penalty  was  determined  by  law,  and  the 
Attorney- General  did  not  pray  for  a  specified  judgment.  The  doubt 
which  has  occurred  to  the  judges,  and  which,  at  their  desire,  re- 
mains to  be  argued,  was  not  stated  until  several  days  after  the  trial, 
find  had  not  occurred  to  the  learned  counsel  on  either  side.     The 


1801]  CASE  OF  LORD  THANET.  317 

sentence,  if  it  should  be  determined  to  be  specific,  would  extend  to 
tlie  loss  of  my  hand,  to  the  forfeiture  of  goods  and  profits  of  land, 
and  imprisonment  during  life.  In  that  case,  I  humbly  conceive  I 
cannot  be  lawfully  deprived  of  life  or  limb  by  the  verdict  of  a  jury, 
or  otherwise  than  by  the  judgment  of  my  peers.  Nor  would  your 
Majesty,  as  I  confidently  trust  and  believe,  suffer  such  a  sentence 
to  be  carried  into  execution.  But  the  judgment  of  itself,  as  I  am 
advised,  would  be  attended  with  great  distress  and  inconvenience  to 
me,  even  though  it  should  be  ultimately  annulled  or  reversed,  and 
these  consequences  can  only  he  averted  by  submitting  my  case  to 
your  Majesty,  and  soliciting,  as  I  most  humbly  do,  your  Majesty's 
gracious  interposition  in  my  favour. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  the  greatest  respect,  sir,  your 
Majesty's  most  dutiful  subject, 

Thanet. 

The  following,  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  though  written 
before  the  acquaintance  between  Francis  and  his  Eoyal 
Highness  had  ripened  into  that  intimacy  of  which  I  shall 
have  to  speak  presently,  shows  that  he  could  presume 
sufSciently  on  it  to  ask  a  favour. 

Francis  to  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

Hothfield,  September  24,  1801.' 

Sir, — Confiding  in  your  Royal  Highness's  constant  goodness  to 
me,  I  cannot  restrain  myself  from  taking  the  liberty  to  express  to 
you  the  concern  and  anxiety  with  which  I  heard  last  night  of  the 
unfortunate  accident^  your  Royal  Highness  has  met  with.  The  same 
intelligence  says  that,  although  you  suffer  considerable  pain,  it  is 
not  attended  with  danger.  I  hope  soon  to  have  the  honour  of 
waiting  on  your  Royal  Highness,  and  the  happiness  of  finding  you 
perfectly  recovered.  Believe  me,  sir,  that  in  every  event  in  which 
your  Royal  Highness  is  concerned  I  take  the  part  that  belongs  to 
the  sincerest  attachment  to  you.  It  was  incKnation  before  it  was 
gratitude,  and  assuredly  will  live  as  long  as  I  do. 

There  is  another  subject,  sir,  on  which  I  have  nothing  to  express 
to  you  but  pleasure  and  thankfulness.  I  have  just  heard  of  your 
generous  intentions  in  favour  of  Ralph  Johnson.  What  the  young 
man's  engagements  or  views  may  be,  or  those  of  his  guardians  for 
him,  I  do  not  know ;  but  I  can  answer  for  him  that  he  feels  the  honour 

'  The  seat  of  Lord  Thanet,  in  Kent. 

'  I  have  not  found  in  the  papers  of  the  day  any  account  of  this  '  accident.' 


318  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1802 

done  him  by  yonr  Royal  Highness  more  sensibly  and  with  deeper 
acknowledgment  than  perhaps  he  may  submit  to  you  in  proper 
terms  for  himself. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  &c. 

P.  Feancis. 
H.  R.  H.  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

To  his  Wife  and  Daughter  Catherine. 

Brighton,  October  14,  1802. 
.  .  .  From  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  rejoice  at  Miss  Berry's 
going  to  Nice  '  (-where  Philip,  Harrietj  and  Elizabeth  at  this  time 
were).  I  shall  not  trouble  her  with  anything  but  letters :  but  we 
must  all  write  vigorously.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Macmahon  are  in  town. 
Suppose  Sally  were  to  ask  them  to  Sheen  for  a  night  or  two.  .  .  . 
I  pass  my  time  tolerably,  dine  always  at  the  Pavilion,  and  spend 
the  evening  at  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's,  or  at  your  friend  the  Countess 
Ctzchetzdsbffs,  a  Russian  lady  of  fashion,  and  three  little  Russlings. 
.  .  .   So,  with  the  help  of  hunting,  I  am  as  well  as  can  be  expected. 

At  the  general  election  of  November  1802,  Francis  was 
returned  for  Appleby,  through  the  interest  of  the  pro- 
prietor of  the  seat,  his  friend  Lord  Thanet.  The  follow- 
ing memorandum,  in  Francis's  handwriting,  and  among  his 
papers,  seems  to  be  drawn  up  partly  in  earnest  and  partly 
in  playfulness,  as  a  kind  of  summary  of  the  understood 
agreement  between  the  new  member  and  his  patron. 

July  13,  1804. 

1.  I  will  do  everything  in  my  power  to  serve  Burdett,'  and 
would  have  done  so  without  any  memento  from  you ;  though  I  dread 
the  consequence  to  him.  Hitherto  I  have  heard  of  no  competitor. 
The  late  sheriffs  are  likely  to  be  trounced. 

2.  I  will  keep  fair  weather  with  Mr.  Swainson  at  Twickenham, 
a,nd  hold  him  to  his  promise  of  a  supply  of  grass  seeds. 

3.  I  will  say  and  do  everything  that  you  and  my  lady  desire, 
from  henceforward  evermore  ;  for  many  reasons,  but  particularly 
because  I  care  very  little  what  I  say  or  do  now. 

4.  Lord  Duncan  is  appointed  to  succeed  Admiral  ComwalHs  in 
bhe  command  of  the  Channel  Fleet. 

'  In  a  later  page  an  account  will  he  given  of  Francis's  famUy  circumstances 
it  this  time,  and  the  cause  of  this  visit  to  Nice. 
^  At  this  time  contesting  Middlesex.     He  was  heaten  by  Mainwai-ing. 


1803]        INTIMACY  WITH  THE  PKINCE  OF  WALES.  319 

5.  I  am  in  hopes  that  Jekyll  will  be  appointed  Solicitor-General 
to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  in  consequence  of  Gribbs's  being  Chief 
Justice  of  Chester. 

There  was  one  leader,  at  all  events,  who  now,  in  the 
very  nadir  of  his  unpopularity,  had  reason  to  rejoice  in 
the  return  of  so  staunch  a  political  ally  as  Francis  to  the 
debates  in  the  House  of  Commons.  '  Except  Whit- 
head,  and  now,  perhaps,  Francis,'  writes  Charles  Fox 
(December  17, 1802  :  LordEussell's  'Memorials  '),  '  not  a 
friend  whatever  opens  his  hps  in  the  house  to  support  me.' 

About  this  time  (if  we  can  trust  the  anecdotes  pre- 
served by  his  family),  Francis  was  so  frequent  a  visitor 
at  the  Pavilion  that  a  set  of  rooms  there  were  called  his, 
and  were  shown  as  such  to  persons  visiting  the  Pavilion. 
'  Sir  Phihp,  during  the  time  of  their  intimacy,  used  to 
say  that  he  never  allowed  the  Prince  to  be  too  familar 
with  him ;  that  he  never  allowed  him  to  forget  his 
own  dignity;  that  was  the  way  he  kept  him  in  order. 
Yet  they  were  upon  terms  so  easy  that  the  Prince  used 
commonly  to  address  all  the  members  of  the  family  by 
their  own  names :  Elizabeth,  Mary, "  Don  Philip  "  (the  son) ; 
and  the  eldest  grandchild,  a  beautiful  little  girl  six  years 
old,  and  the  frequent  playmate  of  Miss  Seymour,  Mrs. 
Fitzherbert's  ward,  used  to  sit  upon  the  Prince's  knee 
to  eat  sugar-plums.  Francis  himself  received  from  the 
Prince  the  addition  of  "  grandpapa,"  by  which  he  often 
addressed  him.'  ^    Undoubtedly  he  cherished  ambitious 

•  '  There  could  not  (says  Lady  Francis,  speaking  of  course  from  her  hus- 
band's recollections)  be  a  greater  contrast  than  between  the  two  courts  of 
St.  James  and  Carlton  House :  the  one,  dull  as  dulness  itself ;  the  other,  all  wit 
andhumour.  The  manners  of  the  King  would  have  almost  choked  a  man 
who  attempted  a  joke  before  he  could  get  it  out.  Tommy  Onslow  once  risked 
a  joke  of  the  mildest  kind;  and  was  disgraced.  He  had  lost  ten  shillings  to 
her  Majesty  at  cassino ;  when  he  handed  ber  half  a  guinea,  saying,  "  There, 
please  your  Majesty,  and  sixpence  for  drink." ' 


320  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1803 

hopes,  in  consequence  of  that  intimacy,  in  the  event  of 
the  Whig  party  ever  attaining  power  in  his  time.  I 
would  have  made  a  great  monarch  of  him,'  he  said  to  his 
wife ;  '  but  personal  vanity  stood  in  the  way,  and,  still 
more,  want  of  moral  integrity.'  Into  the  Eegency  ques- 
tion Francis  entered,  in  the  cause  of  the  Prince,  with 
something  of  his  early  ardour.  His  essay  on  that  subject 
(printed  in  1811,  but  probably  composed  earlier)  is  much 
quoted  by  Taylor  in  his  '  Junius  Identified,'  as  containing 
passages  comparable  to  the  famous  Letters. 

Among  his  manuscripts  of  this  period,  Francis  had  pre- 
served copies  of  the  correspondence  which  took  place 
between  the  Prince  and  the  King  in  July  1803,  when  the 
former  applied  to  be  allowed  to  join  the  army,  and  '  take 
the  responsibility  of  a  military  command.'  The  proposal 
had,  of  course,  a  political  motive,  and  was  intended  to 
place  the  maker  in  a  favourable  position  before  the  eyes 
of  the  country.  Mr.  Jesse  says  that  the  Prince's  letters 
were  'at  the  time  supposed  to  have  been  written  by 
Sheridan,  now  known  to  have  been  composed  partly  by 
Sir  E.  Wilson,  and  partly  by  Lord  Hutchinson.'  On 
what  authority  Mr.  Jesse  makes  this  statement,  I  do  not 
know.  In  Francis's  family  it  was  believed  that  he  wrote 
the  letters;  his  preservation  of  them  among  his  manuscripts, 
as  already  observed,  renders  this  probable,  and  the  style 
is  certainly  like  his.  It  is  to  be  noticed  also  that  on 
August  3,  of  the  same  year,  Francis  took  the  occasion  of 
a  motion  of  Colonel  Crawford's  relative  to  the  defence  of 
the  country,  to  ask  questions  of  the  ministry  respecting 
this  correspondence.  The  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer 
paid  a  compliment  to  the  Prince,  but  said  that  '  nothing 
short  of  the  command  of  the  King  should  compel  him  to 
say  one  word  more  on  the  subject.' 

Under  the  date  June  25,  1803,  I  find   a   paper  in 


1803]  SPECULATIONS  ON  INVASION.  321 

Francis's  handwriting,  preserved  by  him,  with  the  follow- 
ing introduction  : — 

'  These  enquiries,  and  the  answers  given  to  some  of 
them,  apply  to  a  single  supposition  only,  and  to  a  parti- 
cular case  stated,  viz.  the  landing  of  a  considerable  army 
on  the  coast  of  Essex  with  a  view  to  get  possession  of 
London  by  a  rapid  march  at  the  shortest  possible  distance. 
They  have  no  relation  to  the  general  possibility  of  invasion 
in  any  other  quarter,  and  particularly  of  Ireland.  The 
writer  begins  with  submitting  to  an  opinion  now  prevalent, 
though  very  lately  adopted,  of  the  personal  character 
of  Buonaparte,  viz.  that  he  is  a  man  of  rigid  veracity,  and 
utterly  incapable  of  breaking  his  word  with  anybody ;  and 
that,  having  deliberately  promised  or  threatened  to  invade 
England  and  march  to  London,  he  cannot  fail  to  make 
the  attempt,  because  his  honour  is  engaged  in  it !  The 
writer  also  admits  without  dispute  the  truth  and  reason 
of  another  opinion  (which  also  prevails  with  many  think- 
ing people)  that  an  invading  enemy  possessed  of  common 
sense  would  take  particular  pains  to  draw  the  whole  at- 
tention and  preparation  of  this  nation  exactly  to  the 
quarter  in  which  he  meant  to  attack  us.  The  truth  of 
these  suppositions  being  granted,  and  admitting  that  an 
invasion  from  Holland,  Flanders,  and  Dunkirk,  will  cer- 
tainly be  attempted,  they  who  think  that  a  landing  of  the 
enemy  with  a  force  sufficient  to  answer  any  rational  pur- 
pose of  such  an  enterprise  is  likely  to  be  effected  have 
many  questions  to  consider.  All  considerations  on  the 
subject  ought  to  be  weighed,  not  with  a  view  to  make 
difficulties,  or  to  abate  preparation  in  those  quarters  where 
it  may  be  most  wanted,  but  that  we  may  advisedly  judge 
of  the  case,  and  look  it  steadily  in  the  face.  Undervaluing 
a  distant  danger  is  apt  to  create  false  courage  and 
hazardous  security.     Over-rating  it  leads  to  false  appre- 

VOL.  II.  Y 


322 


MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  FHILIP  FRANCIS. 


[1803 


hensions  ;  of  which  neither  are  fit  for  use.     The  former 
usually  fails  on  trial,  the  latter  will  not  wait  to  be  tried.' 

The  enquiries  appear  to  have  been  addressed  to  a  dis- 
tinguished officer,  General  Breton. 


QUESTIONS. 

1.  At  tlie  least,  witli  wliat  ef- 
fective force  can  tlie  attempt  be 
made,  that  is,  such  as  supposing 
the  enemy  on  shore  would  give 
them  a  rational  prospect  of  suc- 
cess ? 


2.  Would  they  bring  cavalry, 
and  how  many ;  and  can  they 
bring  any  without  horse  trans- 
ports ? 

3.  Could  they  bring  artiUery? 
With  what  number  of  draught 
horses  and  what  sort  of  cannon  ? 


4-.  Could  they  landl2-pouuders 
in  any  considerable  surf ;  and,  if 
they  could,  would  their  horses 
be  in  a  condition  to  drag  them 
up  the  beach,  particularly  of 
shingles  ?       How    many    guns 


ANSWERS. 

1.  The  answer  to  your  first 
question  I  shall  give  in  part  by 
an  observation  of  the  late  Prince 
Ferdinand,  who  said  'that  an 
army  (effective  in  numbers  and 
discipline)  of  40,000  men  was 
large  enough  for  any  possible 
purpose  where  it  was  not  neces- 
sary to  detach  or  garrison  from 
it,  or  where  it  was  to  be  opposed, 
by  only  one  army,  no  matter 
how  large.' 

2.  To  bring  cavalry  would  be 
impossible  without  transports 
fitted  on  purpose. 

3.  They  would  most  probably 
only  attempt  to  bring  their  bat- 
talion guns :  1st,  because  they 
know  we  have  no  fortresses  that 
require  heavy  battering  cannon; 
2ndly,  because  mixing  horses 
with  infantry  would  be  both  dif- 
ficult and  dangerous  ;  and,  lastly, 
because  what  is  called  a  park  of 
artillery  does  not  seem  appli- 
cable to  a  coup-de-main,  and  it 
is  most  likely  they  can  look  no 
farther  than  the  destruction  or 
capitulation  of  the  capital. 

4.  If  they  land  w  here  I  sup- 
pose they  would,  they  could  as 
well  land  a  24-  as  a  6-pounder ; 
depend  on  it,  they  will  never  be 
mad  enough  to  attempt  a  land- 
ing  on   a  shingle   beach — such 


1803] 


SPECULATIONS  ON  INVASION. 


323 


QrESTIONS. 
would  be  wanted,  and  how  many- 
horses  for  each  gun  ? 


5.  Supposing  the  effectiTe 
force  intended  for  embarkation 
to  amount  to  40,000  men,  what 
quantity  of  tonnage  or  how  many 
vessels  would  the  whole  opera- 
tion require  ? 


6.  What  time  would  it  take 
to  embark  40,000  men  with  no 
more  stores,  ammunition,  water, 
and  provisions,  than  would  be 
indispensably  necessary,  on  the 
lowest  computation,  and  barely 
to  be  guarded  against  accidents 
which  might  keep  them  out  at 
sea? 

7.  What  time  would  it  take 
to  land  the  whole  on  our  coast  ? 


ANSWEES. 
a  shore  is  too  unfavourable.  I 
cannot  conceive  what  number 
of  horses  would  be  necessary  to 
drag  heavy  guns  up  a  shingle 
beach. 

5.  It  must  be  a  large  transport 
that  can  carry  200  men,  with  all 
necessary  military  equipment, 
water,  and  provisions,  for  provi- 
sions ought  to  be  provided  for 
the  men  for  some  time  after  land- 
ing. I  hold  a  regular  attack  by 
an  army  of  great  force,  all  re- 
gularly provided  and  appointed, 
perfectly  impossible.  The  ports 
are  not  capable  of  containing  the 
number  of  vessels ;  the  time  of  em- 
barkation would  be  so  long,  the 
vessels  of  war  necessary  to  pro- 
tect them  so  numerous,  and  other 
difficulties  so  insurmountable, 
that  I  hold  the  thing  impracti- 
cable. The  numbers  sent  forth  at 
one  time  cannot,  in  my  opinion, 
exceed  20,000,  slenderly  appoint- 
ed, to  be  transported,  without 
cavalry  or  heavy  cannon,  in 
boats  chiefly  Dutch  and  Flemish. 

6.  Three  days  for  Bnghshmen, 
four  or  five  for  Frenchmen. 


7.  The  answer  to  this  cannot 
be  given  at  once,  as  it  depends 
on  such  a  variety  of  circum- 
stances. The  transportation  of 
20,000  men  (say  in  400  boats  of 


324 


MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 


[1803 


QUESTIONS. 


8.  Must  not  the  men  be  on 
board  some  time  before  tbey  ex- 
pect to  sail,  in  order  to  be  ready- 
to  take  advantage  of  opportu- 
nities, sucb  as  our  fleet's  being 
blown  into  port,  a  favourable 
gale,  &c.  ? 


ANSWEES. 
a  large  description)  cannot,  in 
the  quickest  possible  manner,  be 
compared  with  a  passage  in  a 
packet.  It  can  never  be  attempt- 
ed in  blowing  weather,  as,  when 
they  start  with  a  fair  wind,  they 
find  of  course  a  lee-shore  on  land- 
ing, with  a  tremendous  surf  on 
the  shores  of  Essex,  Suffolk,  Nor- 
folk, &c.  ;  such  a  surf  as  would 
settle  with  the  whole  army  with- 
out further  trouble,  besides  the 
danger  of  running  each  other 
down,  shift  of  wind,  &c. 

8.  The  men,  to  the  amount  of 
20,000,  must  be  embarked  in  at 
least  three  divisions,  as  no  port 
on  the  French  or  Flemish  coast 
would  allow  more  to  clear  the 
harbour  in  one  tide  ;  but,  as  it 
seems  very  dangerous  for  one 
third  of  so  small  a  body  as  20,000 
men  to  sail  for  England  alone, 
they  must  wait  for  the  other  di- 
visions eighteen  or  twenty-four 
hours  at  anchor  at  the  harbour's 
mouth,  open  to  the  attack  of  our 
vessels  of  war  and  numberless 
other  dangers.  It  must  be  re- 
membered that  into  all  these 
harbours  the  flood  sets  like  a 
sluice,  so  that  only  a  simple  boat 
can  warp  out  at  a  time  during 
the  flood,  and  most  of  them  are 
empty  at  two  hours  and  a  half 
ebb.  As  to  floating  a  large  boat, 
all  this  is  impracticable  in  blow- 
ing weather;  if  attempted,  it 
must  be  in  the  long  days,  short 
and  fino  nights,  with  calm  wea- 
ther. Such  vessels,  filled  with 
landsmen,  will  never  risk  meeting 


1803] 


SPECULATIONS  ON  INVASION. 


325 


QUESTIONS. 


9.  If  the  principal  embarka- 
tion is  made  from  tlie  Texel, 
what  time  would  it  take  to  cross 
the  sea  (above  sixty  leagues)  to 
the  coast  of  Essex ;  that  is,  for  a 
fleet  of  three  or  four  hundred 
vessels  of  one  sort  or  other, 
without  supposing  a  contrary 
wind,  or  a  calm,  or  bad  weather  ? 

N.B. — I  once  made  my  passage 
from  Harwich  to  Helvoet  (thirty 
leagues)  in  a  very  good  packet, 
well  manned,  and  I  returned 
from  the  same  place.  The  first 
took  thirty  hours,  the  second 
fifty-two,  without  accident  or 
bad  weather,  except  a  little  in 
the  return.  The  passage  from 
Dieppe  to  Brighton  (about  sixty 
miles)  often  takes  thirty,  some- 
times fifty  hours  for  a  single 
ship. 

10.  Do  you  judge  that  the 
enemy  will  wait  for  the  whole 
or  the  greatest  part  of  their  fleet, 
and  so  land  in  great  divisions,, 
or  will  they  throw^  the  men  on 
shore  as  fast  as  they  can  ? 

11.  On  what  part  of  the  coast 
of  Essex  do  you  think  an  attempt 
to  land  most  likely  to  succeed  ? 


ANSWEES. 
English  vessels  of  war  in  blow- 
ing weather.    The  more  I  reflect 
on  the   undertaking  the   less  I 
dread  it. 

9.  Not  less,  all  things  con- 
sidered, than  four  days,  and  pro- 
bably eight. 


10.  Certainly   in    very    large 
divisions. 


11.  To  this  qinestion  I  shall 
give  a  decided  answer,  and  my 
reasons.  I  think  they  will  en- 
deavour to  land  on  Fonhiess  Is- 
land, on  the  coast  of  Essex  :  1st, 
Because  the  first  object  must  be 
to  land  where  they  can  take  post, 
even  with  a  small  body  of  men, 
and  maiatain  themselves.  2ndly, 
They  can  there  run  the  boats  on 


.326 


MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 


[1803 


QrESTIONS, 


12.  Do  you  think  they  will 
wait  for  long  nights,  towards  the 
end.  of  September,  or  avail  them- 
selves of  long  days  and  short 
nights  in  August,  and  for  what 
reasons  ? 

N.B. — I  have  been  a  great  deal 
at  sea  in  both  hemispheres,  and 
seen  a  good  deal  of  bad  weather, 
but  the  most  violent  gale  of  wind 


ANSWEKS. 
shore,  and  land  the  men,  artil- 
lery, and  stores  dry-shod  on  a 
hard  sand.  Srdly,  It  is  the  nearest 
practicable  passage,  and,  as  the 
Flemish  banks  on  their  side  and 
the  sands  at  the  Thames'  mouth 
on  ours  lie  wide  into  the  Channel 
in  that  part,  consequently  they 
would  be  assailable  by  our  ship- 
ping the  least  possible  distance 
in  crossing  at  that  part.  4thly, 
It  is  the  nearest  possible  spot  to 
London — fifty  miles — a  fijie  road 
and  one  very  diflB.cult  to  attack 
them  on  their  march,  particularly 
as  our  cavalry  could  be  of  no  use. 
There  is  a  high  ridge,  with  a  deep 
slope  on  each  side,  leads  all  the 
way  to  Barking.  5thly,  One 
flank,  that  next  the  Thames, 
would  be  safe  in  the  march.  It 
is  a  rich  country,  full  of  grain 
and  provisions  of  all  sorts.  6thly, 
If  they  took  post  in  Foulness, 
they  might  wait  till  three  divi- 
sions were  assembled  and  reco- 
vered from  sickness ;  and  from  it, 
at  low  water,  they  couldmarchinto 
Essex,  over  a  hard  sand,  almost 
dry-shod.  The  only  objection  I 
know  to  this  plan  is  the  total 
want  of  fresh  water  in  the  island. 
12.  Certainly,  under  the  cir- 
cumstances of  the  case,  they 
ought  to  make  the  attempt  within 
these  six  weeks.  Their  only  pro- 
tection can  be  gunboats ;  these, 
in  a  calm  (as  they  row  them), 
are  serious  opponents  even  to  a 
line-of-battle  ship  (as  they  found 
last  war  at  Gibraltar),  as  the 
men-of-war,  in  a  calm,  are  un- 


1803] 


SPECULATIONS  ON  INVASION. 


327 


QUESTIONS. 

I  ever  was  in,  and  with,  an  ex- 
traordinary disturbance  of  the 
sea — running  mountains — was 
about  the  middle  of  August,  be- 
tween Ramsgate  and  Dunkirk. 
It  lasted  six  hours,  and  left  an 
enormous  swell  after  the  wind 
subsided.  In  an  incomparable 
yacht,  perfectly  equipped,  we 
were  on  the  point  of  being 
driven  on  a  lee-shore  off  Dun- 
kirk, where  we  should  have 
perished  instantly. 

13.  Wliat  effect  would  a  gale 
of  wind,  or  any  bad  weather, 
have  on  such  a  fleet  filled  with 
landsmen  ? 

14.  What  effect  would  a  calm 
succeeding  a  storm  have  on  the 
sea,  the  fleet,  and  the  landsmen ; 
and,  supposing  the  wind  favour- 
able, but  to  blow  fresh,  on  a  lee- 
shore  with  a  great  surf — could 
they  land  in  those  circumstances? 


ANSWERS. 
governable.  Summer  gales  are 
often  violent,  but  always  short. 
In  the  Channel  the  tide  soon  runs 
the  sea  down,  again,  if  ever  so 
high. 


13.  Every    possible  bad   and 
dangerous  one. 


14.  Making  them  very  sick  ; 
but  be  the  best  thing  they  could 
hope  for  in  that  situation. 

I  trust  and  doubt  not  our  go- 
vernment are  well  provided  with 
gunboats,  as  m  a  calm,  they  are 
the  only  means  they  would  have 
of  offence  against  gunboats  ;  and, 
supposing  such   a   fleet   rowing 
over,  assisted  by  a  gentle  breeze, 
our  gun  vessels  would  have  in 
attacking  a  singular  advantage. 
The  enemy  would  probably  col- 
lect their  army  and  boat  trans- 
ports in  the  centre  and  surround 
them  with  their   gunboats.     In 
that   case    our   gunboats   would 
not  attack  theirs  on  the  outside, 
but  break  in  amongst  the  fleet, 
and  attack  their  gunboats  on  the 
within  side  ;  this  would  put  the 
transports  of  the  enemy  between 
the  fire   of  their  own  gunboats 
and  ours,  and  they  would  thus 
be    enfiladed.      To    board     our 


328 


MEMOIRS  or  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 


[1803 


QUESTIONS, 


15.  All  the  preceding  ques- 
tions apply  to  the  difficulty  of 
the  operation  in  itself,  and  the 
mere  accidents  of  wiads  or  calms, 
upon  a  supposition  that  our  fleet, 
and  all  our  cruisers  and  gun- 
boats, are  locked  up  and  utterly 
useless.  But  suppose  the  con- 
trary should  happen,  and  that 
our  ships  should,  more  or  less, 
be  able  to  attack  them,  what 
would  the  enemy's  power  and 
means  of  defence  be  to  protect 
their  transports  ?  Could  it  be 
done  eflFectually  by  gunboats,  or 
could  they  board  our  ships  ? 

16.  If  the  embarkation,  or  any 
material  part  of  it,  be  attempted 
from  ports  to  the  westward  of 
Mushing — viz.  Ostend,  Nieuport, 
and  Dunkirk — the  passagewonld 
be  shorter ;  but  would  the  diffi- 
culties of  the  navigation,  &c. 
be  increased  or  diminished  ? 

I  am  well  enough  acquainted 
with  the  ports  of  Calais,  Bou- 
logne, and  Dieppe,  having  been 
windbound  in  every  one  of  them 
many  days,  to  be  able  to  affirm 
that  no  material  expedition  from 
thence  could  be  effected  but 
with  such  delays  as  would  de- 
feat any  measure  that  reqidred 
despatch.  Only  one  ship  can 
lead  out  at  once,  and  that  only 
with  an  ebbing  tide,  besides  the 
difficulty  of  coming  out  at  all, 
except  with  particular  winds. 

17.  Our  seamen  in  their  long- 


ANSWEBS. 
frigates,  provided,  as  they  ought 
to  be,  with  netting,  &c.  would  be 
very  difficult,  if  not  impossible. 


1 7.  French  seamen  are  neither 


1803]  "         SPECULATIONS  ON  INVASION.  829 

QUESTIONS.  ANSWERS, 
fcoats  very  often  succeed,  in  the  so  skilful  nor  so  orderly  as  onrs. 
most  hazardous  enterprises ;  sup-  The  landsmen, beyond  amoderate 
posing  French  seamen  to  equal  number,  would  be  more  Hkely  to 
ours    iu    skUl    and    resolution,  disturb  and  embarrass  the  sea- 
would  their  boats,  crowded  with  men  than  do  them  any  service, 
landsmen,  be  equally  manageable 
for  the  purpose  of  attacking  our 
ships  ? 

I  perfectly  agree  with  you  that  there  is  not  a  more  dangerous 
error  than  to  despise  your  enemy.  On  the  other  hand,  a  wise  man 
weighs  his  danger  without  over-rating  it. 

'  These  difficulties  taken  together,  if  not  physically  insur- 
mountable, are  apparently  such  as  a  reasonable  or  even  a 
rash  enemy  would  not  readily  encounter.  Admitting, 
however,  that,  by  some  means  or  other,  they  are  all  over- 
come, and  that  40,000  Frenchmen  with  their  muskets 
and  some  part  of  their  ammunition  may  reach  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  London,  I  ask  any  Enghsh  general  officer 
how  he  thinks  they  will  then  act  and  proceed ;  or  rather 
what  he  would  do  if  he  was  at  the  head  of  them  in 
parallel  circumstances  ? 

'  Would  he  enter  London  at  the  risk  of  seeing  his  whole 
army  disband  to  plunder,  and  the  men  made  drunk  and 
murdered  ? 

'  Would  he  burn  London  ?  And,  if  he  did,  would  it  be 
possible  for  a  single  Frenchman  to  escape,  surrounded 
as  they  would  be  by  the  whole  nation,  determined  upon 
vengeance  ? 

'  Would  he  be  content  with  burning  the  ships  and  docks 
in  the  Thames,  and  levying  great  contributions  ?  This  he 
might  do,  but  how  is  it  hkely  that  such  an  army  loaded 
with  booty  could  return  to  the  coast  in  the  face  of  Eng- 
land armed ;  and  if  they  did,  by  what  possible  means 

could  they  get  back  to  France  ?  ' 

Ques. — P.  FKAifcis. 

Ans. — W.  Beetok 


330  MEMOIKS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1803 

A  series  of  letters  addressed  by  Francis  (including  one 
by  his  son  on  his  dictation)  to  the  Thanets,  in  1803  and 
1804,  adds  something  to  the  record  of  his  life  at  this 
period.  I  am  not,  however,  certain  to  whom  the  first, 
which  has  no  direction,  was  addressed. 


Brighton,  October  14,  1803. 

Suffice  it  to  say  that  the  dog  may  weep,  but  he  shall  bleed  too, 
the  vital  drops  that  animate  his  purse.  Tour  reputation  at 
Drummond's  is  safe.  I  wish  I  could  say  as  m.uch  of  your  property. 
If  I  ever  saw  that  letter  from  F.  to  P.  may  my  lady  take  me.  It  is 
true,  he  repeated  the  contents,  and  those  I  have  forgot.  A  letter,  of 
a  most  secret  nature,  from.  Surrey,  informs  me  that  the  alternate  and 
eternal  party  at  Addington's  or  at  Tierney's  consists  of  those  two 
and  of  Erskine,  Sheridan,  Dallas,  and  Adam,  to  the  everlasting  ex- 
clusion, confusion,  &c.  of  Hiley  and  Bragge.  .  .  .  Tyrwhit  Jones 
is  sometimes  admitted,  and  then  they  are  complete. 

Of  feasting  there  was  no  end  till  yesterday,  when  P.  went  to 
town,  to  return  next  week. 

No  grievances,  much  less  any  retrospect.  Miladi  and  I  are 
sworn  friends  for  life  ;  and  now  I  defy  all  your  vain  Ligurian  arts. 
I  am  quite  sure  that  we  never  can  be  divided,  unless  we  are  cut  in 
two.  I  fear  that  reverend  divine  will  forget  the  only  cunning  he 
possesses.  Not  a  fowl  have  I  seen,  but  that  poor  little  provision 
which  I  had  the  good  fortune  to  bring  with  me.  These  two  chil- 
dren have  eaten  nothing  else  since  my  arrival.  All  the  play,  in 
which  you  ever  acted  or  suffisred,  is  mere  pippin  squeezing  compared 
to  what  is  perpetually  going  forward  here  at  Eaggets.  Every  day 
we  hear  of  ten  or  twenty  thousand  won  and  lost.  The  actors  are 
Messieors  Aubrey,  Johnstone,  Burrows,  Taylor,  Trevis,  Gage,  &c. 
.  .  .  Captain  Capel  offered  one  day  to  bet  a  hundred,  which  for 
some  time  was  not  accepted,  and  at  last  out  of  mere  civility,  and  to 
accommodate  the  gentleman.  I  am  now  the  only  man  in  the  world 
who  doubts  about  invasion.  So  not  to  be  foolhardy,  where  so 
many  women  are  in  question,  I  have  written  to  a  friend  to  secure 
me  a  retired  house  about  thirty  miles  north  of  London ;  and  I 
advise  you  to  pick  up  as  many  guineas  as  you  can  find.  Master 
Shallow,  I  owe  you  two  pounds.^ — Yes,  Sir  John,  and  I  wish  you 
would  let  me  have  it  with  me. — That  may  not  be,  Master 
Shallow. 

As  to  Miladi,  that  finale  was  a  coup  de  grace.  ...  In  short,  I  am 


1804]  FALL  OF  THE  ADDINGTON  MINISTKY.  331 

much  more  hers  than  my  own ;  but  not  quite  so  much  hers  as 
of  a  beautiful  damsel  here,  to  whom  I  have  made  a  promise  of 
marriage. 


To  Lady  Thanet. 

Brighton,  January  22,  1804. 
Honoured  Madam, — The  historical  fact  is  that  I  arrived  here  on 
rriday,  and,  before  I  was  two  hours  old  in  the  place,  found  myself 
perfectly  settled,  completely  arrounded,  and  entirely  at  my  ease. 
Since  that  I  have  done  very  little  but  eat  and  drink  and  game. 
Now  if  these  particulars  are  not  so  interesting  as  you  might  reason- 
ably expect  from  the  company  I  keep,  you  must  give  me  credit  for 
uncommon  discretion.  I  am  actually  bursting  with  a  hundred 
secrets  ;  and  yet  I  have  the  fortitude  to  keep  every  one  of  them  for 
your  private  ear,  when  we  are  marching  on  the  common,  and  not  a 
native  within  sight  of  us.  One  thing  only  I  shall  venture  to 
impart  to  you  in  the  severest  confidence;  viz.  that  his  Royal 
Highness,  que  Dios  guarde  'nvuchos  anos,  is  on  the  edge  of  giving  a 
ball  on  Wednesday  ;  and  as  I  am  a  usefal  as  well  as  an  ornamental 
person  at  such  festivities,  I  shall  accordingly  stay,  and  do  my  very 
best.  The  object  of  this  enterprise  is  to  celebrate  the  Queen's 
birthday.  All  the  ladies  in  the  world,  or  in  Sussex,  are  invited, 
and  they  will  all  come,  if  they  possibly  can,  without  distinction  of 
age  or  sex.  When  I  shall  return  to  Sheen,  you  know  better  than  I 
do,  and  care  not  at  all.  Will  you  put  fist  to  paper  on  Tuesday,  and 
tell  me  whether  the  threatened  invasion  of  Hothfield  took  place, 
and  how  the  enemy  have  conducted  themselves,  and  what  is  finally 
become  of  that  traitor  whom  I  left  in  your  custody  ?  I  hear  from 
London  to-day  that  you  are  on  the  point  of  being  restored  to 
Mr.  Pitt's  good  government  once  more.  So  this  ministry,  like  their 
own  peace,  is  nothing  but  a  measure  of  experiment.  How  many 
more  experiments  can  we  bear  vnthout  dying  in  the  operation  ? 
Tell  his  Lordship  that  Humphrey  Howorth  and  I  are  joint  owners  of 
a  lottery  ticket,  which  I  alone  paid  for.  Never  mind  how  you  con- 
clude a  letter.  Tou  cannot  be  too  abrupt.  Please  to  direct  to  me 
at  the  Pavilion.  Matthew  Day  has  lent  me  a  horse  as  fat  as  himself, 
which  has  not  been  out  of  the  stable  since  August,  and  does  not 
know  his  right  hand,  or  foot,  from  his  left,  for  want  of  practice. 
I  shall  work  him  to-morrow  after  the  harriers.  .  .  .  This  morning 
I  just  gave  him  a  breathing  on  the  hills,  which  made  him  transpire 
copiously.  .  .  .  If  I  break  his  wind,  I  have  agreed  that  Lord  Thanet 
shall  pay  for  him. 


532       '  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1804 

To  the  Same. 

April  19,  1804. 

My  own  dear  Lady, — I  am  the  slave  of  the  lamp  ;  and,  as  long  as 
yon  continne  to  unite  uncommon  firmness  with  your  invariable 
sweetness  of  temper,  I  desire  nothing  better  than  to  be  incessantly, 
unremittingly,  and  in  effect  constantly  employed  in  your  service, 
which,  to  say  the  best  of  it,  is  not  perfect  freedom.  The  incapacity 
Df  Drummer  and  the  necessity  of  detaining  the  Haridan  are  aifairs 
in  which  your  own  peace  of  mind  is  a  good  deal  more  materially 
concerned  than  mine.  My  friends  have  nothing  to  do  with  it. 
They  shall  go,  dead  or  alive,  on  Sunday,  provided  that  the  stage 
travels  on  that  dominical  day.  I  shall  send  for  them  incontinently, 
and  tutor  them  up  to  the  very  extremity  of  your  instructions  ;  which 
if  I  should  forget  or  unfortunately  misconceive^  it  will  not  be  your 
Ladyship's  fault,  God  knows.  Mr.  Pitt  is  suddenly  touched  with  a 
gouty  affection,  or  a  qualm  of  conscience  ;  and  the  grand  conflict's 
deferred  till  Monday.  I  thought  the  Doctor's  countenance,  after  the 
last  division,  had  an  azure  cast.  Everything  else  looks  well ;  and  I 
hope  ere  long  to  dispose  of  his  Lordship's  proxy  to  advantage. 

The  Bishop  of  London  is  actually  sitting  at  my  left  hand,  talking 
about  the  weather  and  the  Dutch  fleet,  and  a  multitude  of  foreign 
fowls,  from  Brooks's  m.enagerie,  who  are  sent  into  our  square  for 
their  health,  and  left  there  screaming  and  starving  all  day  and  night, 
and  the  bishop  assures  me  that  this  violation  of  decorum  is  connived 
at  by  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  who  pockets  sixpence  a  week  for  each  of 
these  cursed  bipeds,  who,  not  having  a  feather  left,  look  very  like 
Christians  in  adversity.  Poor  dear  Elizabeth  suffers  sadly;  but, 
hope  travels  on.  A  loaf  on  Monday  or  Tuesday  si  cela  votosfait 
plaisir. 

Mr.  Stinton  assures  me  that  he  brews  like  an  angel ;  so  I  hope  to 
taste  some  rational  small-beer  at  Hothfield,  before  I  die  there. 

The  Bishop  of  London  and  I  are  to  have  a  meeting  on  special 
affairs  on  the  27th  instant,  to  which  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  and  the 
Earl  of  Rosselyn  are  invited,  in  order  to  see  whether  any  means  can 
be  devised  to  prevent  the  future  beating  of  carpets  in  this  Tetragon. 
This  base  practice  is  patronised  by  George  Byng,  who  says  he  does 
not  choose  to  trust  his  carpets  out  of  his  sight.  lEn  attendant,  we 
have  the  full  and  undivided  benefit  of  all  the  dust  in  all  the  carpets 
within  two  miles  of  us.  With  sitting  up  to  vote  against  Addington, 
I  have  got  the  lumbago,  at  his  Lordship's  service.  In  future  I  must 
vote  horizontally  and  pointblank  if  I  can. 

Mr.    Stinton   has   taken   two   places   in  the  Ashford  stage,  for 


1804]  FALL  OF  THE  ADDINGTON  MINISTRY.  333 

Sunday  morning  at  five  o'clock.  Call  you  not  this  despatch  ?  How- 
are  you  to  distinguish,  one  from  the  other  ?  I  cannot.  The  safest 
way  will  be  to  send  for  Stinton  first,  and  lecture  him  copiously 
before  he  feeds.     An  empty  stomach  indicates  a  recipient  mind. 

April  20,  1804. 
Jo  Bacohe,  lo  Pcean,  lo  Triwmjphe, — pends-toi,  brave  Grillon. 

Two  bishops,  Prettyman  and  Beadon,  voted  yesterday  against 
the  doctor,  also  the  Earl  of  Cholmondeley ;  and  your  single  vote  in 
the  hands  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford  carried  it,  in  the  first  division. 
That's  my  doiag.  Who  else  ?  Now  I  suppose  my  lady  will  confess 
at  last,  with  tears  in  her  eyes,  that  I'm  as  good  a  timist  as  herself. 
The  Duke  of  Devon,  Lord  Albemarle,  Lord  Maynard,  and  many 
others,  were  not  in  the  first  division.  They  sent  for  the  Archbishop 
from  Lambeth,  the  Dukes  of  York,  Cumberland,  and  Cambridge, 
and  Lord  St.  Vincent,  who  all  voted  like  heroes,  without  knowing 
what  the  question  was.  I  m.et  Dundas  of  Richmond  this  day  at 
one,  coming  from  Buckiugham  House.  I  suspect  that  some  of  the 
wise,  who  voted  yesterday,  know  more  of  the  dessous  des  cartes 
than  you  or  I  do,  but  no  man,  without  knowledge,  can  have  a 
stronger  opinion  than  I  have  on  that  head.  The  two  servants 
embark  in  the  Ashford  stage  at  five  on  Sunday  morning.  I  humbly 
recommend  it  to  her  Ladyship  to  order  her  cart  to  be  at  the  Wool- 
pack  to  meet  them,  as  there  will  be  a  cargo  of  books  and  baggage, 
besides  the  live  stock.  Fox  was  in  high  feather  yesterday,  which 
cost  me  two  guineas. 

Reports  and  opinions  are  on  foot  everywhere  that  Addington  cannot 
stand ;  some  say  that  he  has  told  the  King  so  ;  and  then  for  Pitt  ! 
or  a  broad  administration.' 

To  Lady  Thanet. 

April  26,  180i. 

Chere  et  tres-honoree, — I  will  execute  your  commands  as  expedi- 
tiously and  punctually  as  I  can  ;  but  I  pray  you  to  recollect  that  all 
human  powers  are  limited,  which  is  more  than  I  can  say  of  your 
opinion  of  mine.  As  to  finding  the  successor  of  a  grocer,  who  for- 
merly lived  in  St.  Paul's  Churchyard,  and  served  Lord  Thanet's 
family  some  time  in  the  last  century,  you  might  as  well  expect  me 
to  tell  you  the  name  of  Priam's  nurse  ;  or  which  way  the  wind  blew 
twenty  years  ago. 

Your  mind  is  so  dazzled  with  the  eclat  of  the  said  Stinton's 
accomplishments    that   you   have  totally  forgot  the  merits  of  his 

^  Addington  accordingly  resigned ;  and  Pitt  was  sent  for. 


334  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1804 

satellite,  and  what  impression  they  have  made  on  his  Lordship.  .  .  . 
On  this  subject  you  may  easily  dilate,  without  neglecting  the 
arimary  planet,  who,  I  suppose,  is  now  revolving  round  that  centre 
Df  attraction,  Madame  Drummer,  or  watching  the  transit  of  Penley. 

Not  a  word  of  the  parson  ! 

Not  a  word  of  my  letter,  which  I  desired  and  desire  again  may  he 
returned  to  me  by  next  post,  or  I  write  no  more. 

If  the  Doctor  does  not  now  perceive  that  his  own  case  is  as 
iesperate  as  that  of  his  patients,  all  I  can  say  is,  he  knows  nothing 
jf  topography. 

As  to  my  arguing  with  his  Lordship,  you  know  I  might  as  well  sing 
psalms  to  a  blind  horse.  .  .  .  Did  I  not  leave  Fox  drinking  at 
Brookes's  this  morning  at  four,  and  Richard  Brindsley  into  the 
bargain  ?  All  day,  he  had  played  least  in  sight ;  not  so  when  the 
supper  came. 

II  n'y  a  que  vov^,  m,adame,  qui  avez  toujours  raison,  as  you  very 
justly  observed.  This  day  I  vainly  hoped  I  should  not  have  seen 
that  infernal  House  of  Commons,  but  I  reckoned  without  my  host, 
Dr  rather  without  Tom  Sheridan,  upon  whom  I  cannot  bring  myself 
to  visit  the  sins  of  his  sire  ;  so  I  must  go  and  sit  out  a  call  of  the 
house,  though  you  know  I  am  engaged  to  George  Johnstone,  who 
gives,  or  I  hope  will  give,  a  famous  dinner  to  Fox,  Bobby,  and  me, 
this  very  day.  We  have  loaves  enough  now,  dear  lady,  till  this  day 
se'nnight. 

Everybody  in  the  world  said  last  night  that  a  pension  of  1,200Z. 
to  G.  T — y  and  of  600L  to  his  lady  was  completed  in  due  form 
yesterday.  I  do  not  know  the  fact,  but  I  believe  it.  This  and 
other  things  have  the  air  of  winding  up  a  bottom.  As  to  the  world 
to  come,  all  I  know  is  that  '  It  cannot  use  us  worse  than  this  has 
done.'  I  at  least  do  not  fall  within  that  class  of  fools,  though  1  may 
into  some  other,  of  whom  it  was  beautifully  said  by  the  finest 
writer  of  the  present  age  or  any  other  that  '  their  expectations  were 
maintained  against  experience,  and  their  confidence  nourished  by 
disappointment. ' 

Pray  keep  all  my  letters  in  a  box,  or  a  drawer,  or  a  bag. 

Philip  Francis  (the  younger)  to  Lord  Thanet. 

St.  James  Square,  May  8,  1804. 
Dear  Lord  Thanet, — My  father,  being  very  much  hurried,  and 
having  many  persons  to  see  and  things  to  do,  commissions  me  to 
write  you  a  full  account  of  all  I  know  or  have  heard  from  himself 
or  others,  as  to  what  has  taken  place  since  Pitt's  interview  with  the 
King  yesterday.  Not  to  lose  time  in  a  work  of  some  length,  I  beo-in 
without  further  preamble.     Soon  after  his  return  from  Buckingham 


1804]  PITT'S  MINISTRY  OF  1804.  335 

House,  Pitt  sent  a  message  to  Mr.  Fox,  to  tell  him  '  that,  notwith- 
standing all  the  efforts  he  (Pitt)  had  made  in  the  course  of  their 
conversation  to  induce  his  Majesty  to  admit  Mr.  Fox  into  his 
cabinet,  he  was  sorry  to  say  he  had  found  the  objections  to  Mr.  Fox 
in  the  royal  mind  insuperable.'  I  do  not  pretend  to  give  you  the 
words,  biit  only  the  effect  of  the  message.  About  the  same  time  he 
sent  to,  or  called,  on  Lord  Grenville  to  notify  to  him  the  exclusion 
of  Mr.  Fox,  and  to  propose,  notwithstanding  that  Lord  Grenville 
and  his  friends  should  take  a  share  in  the  new  administration  he 
was  about  to  form.  To  which  proposal  Lord  Grenville,  without 
hesitation,  refused  to  accede.  In  the  evening  there  was  a  meeting 
at  Lord  Grenville's,  at  which  Mr.  Fox,  at  his  Lordship's  earnest 
desire,  was  present,  as  also  Lords  Spencer,  Fitzwilliam,  and 
Carlisle,  Windham,  and  others.  Lord  Grenville,  having  explained 
Mr.  Pitt's  proposal  to  him,  and  the  manner  in  which  he  had  felt 
himself  called  upon  to  treat  it,  Mr.  Fox  declared  that  a  personal 
exception  to  him  should  be  no  impediment  in  the  way  of  the 
country's  profiting  by  the  aid  of  their  talents,  if  they  felt  that  their 
services  under  such  an  union  with  Mr.  Pitt  and  his  friends  were 
likely  to  be  efiectual  towards  liberating  it  from  its  present  difficul- 
ties ;  and,  waiving  his  own  desire  to  be  considered,  expressed  his 
readiness  to  give  his  support  to  any  combined  administration  that 
should  wisely  and  honestly  pursue  that  object.  After  some  de- 
liberation, an  unanimous  resolution  was  come  to  by  all  the  parties 
present  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  Mr.  Pitt  and  his  proposal ;  that 
Mr.  Fox's  great  talents  were  essential  to  the  salvation  of  the  country 
in  its  present  difficult  and  dangerous  situation ;  and  that  neither  they 
nor  any  one  of  them  would  take  a  share  in  any  administration  Mr.  Pitt 
might  form  in  which  Mr.  Fox  was  not  included.  There  was 
another  meeting  afterwards  at  Fox's  of  the  principal  members  of  the 
old  opposition,  in  which  it  was  resolved  that  Mr.  Fox  should  not  be 
allowed  to  sacrifice  himself  for  his  friends,  of  which  he  declared  his 
readiness,  and  that  they  would  none  of  them  accept  of  office  without 
him.  All  this  being  communicated  to  the  Prince,  he  was  pleased  to 
express  his  entire  and  perfect  approbation  of  these  resolutions,  and 
he  desires  further  that  it  may  be  known,  and  understood,  and  pub- 
lished to  all  the  world  in  his  name  and  authority  that,  in  this  per- 
sonal rejection  of  Mr.  Fox,  he  considers  himself  as  the  party 
injured ;  that  he  is  not  at  all  the  dupe  of  Mr.  Pitt's  excuses  and 
explanations ;  that  he  sees  clearly  that  Mr.  Fox  is  rejected  as  his 
friend,  and  that  it  was  meant  to  wound  him  through  his  side. 


What  Philip  has  written  is  the  substance.     I  had  my  information 


336  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1804 

and  instructions  directly  from  the  Prince.  How  Pitt  and  Dundas 
are  to  make  an  effective  administration  out  of  the  fragments  that 
are  left  is  a  question  that  cannot  be  determined  by  conjecture.  We 
are  going  to  have  great  meetings  and  declarations.  In  the  mean- 
time, there  is  no  government.     Farewell ! 

P.F. 

To  Lady  Thanet. 

March  21,  1804. 

I  wish  I  could  contribute  to  raise  your  spirits.  Dejection  of  miud 
is  the  worst  of  all  the  maladies ;  but  unless  you  are  positively  sick, 
I  see  no  reasonable  motive  you  have  to  be  melancholy.  After  all, 
is  not  it  better  to  be  dull  in  the  country  than  tormented  in  town  ? 
Are  you  tired  of  a  calm,  and  will  nothing  serve  you  but  a  hurricane  ? 
Ft  done,  helle  dame !  What  signifies  what  is  past  ?  The  present 
is  without  pain,  and  the  future  promises.  Let  me  only  live  to  see 
my  own  Elizabeth  out  of  danger,  and  I  will  carry  such  an  overflow 
of  spirits  to  Hothfield  as  shall  make  you  and  all  your  family  mad 
for  joy.  With  that  exception  the  events  of  this  life  are  indifferent 
to  me. 

Until  I  read  the  word  in  your  own  handwriting,  I  thought  it  was 
the  cultivation  of  grapes  to  which  his  Lordship  was  going  to  devote 
himself.  I  have  argued  about  grasses,  and  turnips,  and  botany  with 
everybody  who  knows  anything,  and  with  many  who  know  nothing 
of  those  sciences.  .  .  .  Fox  advises  him  to  read  Rousseau  on  botany. 
Grey  says  the  drill  is  on  its  way  from  Northumberland ;  if  not.  Lord 
Robert  undertakes  to  get  one  made  here.  The  Duke  of  Bedford 
was  very  sententious  about  grazing,  but  I  suppose  it  is  for  want  of 
memory,  I  cannot  recollect  what  he  said,  so  I  must  try  him  again. 

.  .  His  Lordship  shall  have  the  Paris  edition  of  Olivet's  '  TuUy ' 
when  I  can  get  it,  since  nothing  less  will  serve  his  turn  ;  but  it  is 
very  scarce,  and  requires  waiting.  We  three  are  to  be  great  classics 
in  the  course  of  next  winter ;  mark  that,  and  brush  up  your  Latin. 

Philip  desires  to  be  precipitated  at  your  feet ;  in  compliment  to 
your  taste,  he  renounces  time,  and  will  be  satisfied  with  place.  The 
Sieur  Vaughan,  in  imitation  of  his  betters,  or  from  envy  at  his 
Lordship,  would  needs  go  halves  with  me,  and  I  have  never  won  a 
rubber  since  ;  so  he  is  quite  distracted  with  grief,  but  does  not  mind 
going  to  jail,  provided  I  go  with  him.  His  sorrows  and  my  own 
are  too  much  at  a  time.  Now,  dear  lady,  take  the  trouble  not  to 
send  him  this  letter. 

June  14,  1804. 

My  own  dear  Lady, — I  beg  of  you  to  make  it  a  rule  not  to  think 
hardly  of  me  when  I  happen  not  to  write  to  Hothfield  so  regularly 


1804]  PITT'S  MINISTRY  OF  1804.  337 

as  I  used  to  do.  These  notes  will  show  you  that  T  have  an  abundance 
of  occupation  in  the  House  of  Commons,  besides  my  attendance  on 
the  Slave  Trade  (Committee  ?),  which  I  never  neglected  till  yester- 
day :  and  then,  I  see,  the  house  was  counted  out  by  Mr.  Dent.  A 
shabby  proceeding,  but  I  trust  it  will  be  ineffectual.  "We  are  come 
to  this  state  of  mind  in  Parliament  that  vigour  and  activity  are 
always  in  readiness  to  do  mischief,  and  that  the  best  dispositions  to 
do  good  require  a  whip  of  scorpions  to  make  them  active. 

Mr.  Pitt,  as  we  believe,  is  determined  to  go  on  with  or  without  a 
majority ;  and,  if  all  fails,  to  resort  to  a  dissolution.  That  idea  is 
current  abroad ;  but  I,  for  one,  do  not  think  it  well  founded.  His 
personal  estimation  in  the  City  and  country  is,  I  believe,  greatly 
reduced;  and,  if  so,  it  is  not  likely  that  his  strength,  in  a  new 
Parliament,  would  be  much  improved.  Then,  he  has  all  the  prin- 
cipal people  in  the  House  of  Commons  to  contend  with,  and  the 
King's  inclination  agaiast  him,  supposing  His  Majesty's  health  to 
be  so  far  re-established  as  you  trust  it  is,  to  enable  him  to  judge  for 
himself,  and  to  act  on  his  judgment.  But,  as  you  and  I  know,  the 
probable  never  happens,  and,  therefore,  as  you  most  judiciously 
observed,  probability  should  be  left  out  of  human  calculations. 

So  I  find  from  Mr.  Coke  that  Lord  Thanet  relinquishes  the 
pleasure  of  sheep-shearing,  at  Woobum  and  Holkham,  till  the  ex- 
perience of  another  year  shall  have  quahfied  him  to  enjoy  it.  I  am 
not  so  sure  that  I  should  have  borne  him  company,  according  to  my 
wishes,  as  I  am  that  I  shall  not  go  without  him.  The  dearest  being 
to  whom  my  heart  is  devoted  is  not  in  a  state  that  would  permit 
me  to  leave  her,  much  less  to  enjoy  any  satisfaction  at  a  distance 
from  her.  Every  hour  that  I  am  able  to  dispose  of  is  spent  in 
Sloane  Street,  though  I  seldom  see  her ;  but  it  helps  to  alleviate  the 
toils  and  griefs  of  two  of  the  best  beings  that  ever  existed,  who 
wait  on  her  incessantly,  night  and  day.  My  house  was  once  gay 
and  happy  ...  it  is  not  so  now,  nor  will  it  ever  if  my  daughter 
dies. 

I  long  to  visit  you ;  and  if  she  mends  materially,  I  shall  take  the 
first  opportunity.  Otherwise  I  should  only  carry  a  heavy  heart 
along  with  me. 

The  last  letter  refers  to  the  broken  health  and  approach- 
ing dissolution  of  the  writer's  most  beloved  daughter. 
During  the  interval  of  his  parliamentary  inactivity, 
Francis's  home  had  been  visited  by  calamities  which 
occupied  a  large  share  of  his  thoughts  and  cares,  and 

VOL.  II.  z 


338  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1804 

tried  to  the  utmost  the  endurance  of  a  singularly  sensitive 
temperament.  For  the  more  resolutely  he  guarded  himself 
by  a  sarcastic  philosophy  against  contact  with  the  outer 
world  the  more  keenly  did  he  feel  the  sharpness  of  those 
shafts  which  penetrated  within  his  defence. 

Francis's  family  of  children — a  very  united  and  happy 
one,  as  far  as  our  scanty  memorials  show — comprised 
one  son,  Philip,  born  in  1768.  He  studied  the  law; 
married,  in  1805,  Miss  Johnson,  of  Putney  (rather  to  the 
disappointment  of  his  father's  ambition  for  an  alliance  of 
rank,  according  to  the  family  chronicles)  and  was  the  father 
of  a  numerous  family,  of  whom  one  surviving  son  is  now 
settled  in  Austraha,  another  in  England.  The  two 
Philips  seem  to  have  hved,  like  the  Philips  of  a  former 
generation,  on  affectionate  terms  with  each  other.  Fran- 
cis introduced  his  son  to  his  own  circle  at  Hothfield,  the 
Pavihon,  and  elsewhere,  and  endeavoured  (unsuccessfully) 
to  obtain  him  a  seat  in  parliament. 

But  the  father's  heart,  as  is  generally  the  case  with 
men  of  a  character  like  that  of  Francis,  clung  with 
the  closest  attachment  to  his  daughters,  his  '  younger 
sisters,'  as  he  playfully  called  them.  They  were  hand- 
some and  accomplished,  and  some  of  them  (as  is  clear 
from  their  letters),  with  no  small  share  of  their  father's 
abilities.  Sarah,  the  eldest,  born  in  1763,  died  unmarried, 
late,  I  believe,  in  her  father's  lifetime  ;  she  seems  to  have 
suffered  much  from  ill-health.  Mary,  the  fourth,  married, 
as  has  been  said,  Mr.  Godshall  Johnson,  of  Putney,  in  1792 
(whose  daughter  by  a  former  wife  afterwards  married 
Philip),  had  children,  and  became  early  a  widow.  Cathe- 
rine, the  youngest,  and  who  remained  longest  at  the  head 
of  her  father's  house,  married  Mr.  Chohiaondeley.  Both 
these  survived  Sir  Philip.  But  the  second  and  third, 
EUzabeth  and  Harriet — both,  but  especially  the  former,  the 


1804]  RECEPTION  BY  THE  FIRST  CONSUL.  339 

father's  dearly  loved  favourites-^became  victims,  in  middle 
life,  of  that  delicacy  of  constitution  which  was  the  mi- 
fortunate  inheritance  of  their  family.  We  have  seen  that 
Francis  had  first  visited  Nice,  on  account  of  the  health  of 
his  children,  before  the  Eevolution.  The  peace  of  Amiens 
having  opened  the  Continent  once  more  to  Enghsh 
visitors,  he  sent  his  son  and  the  two  invalid  daughters  to 
pass  the  winter  of  1802  ^  in  the  same  spot.  He  accom- 
panied them  as  far  as  Paris.  '  Their  stay  there  was  pro- 
longed,' says  one  of  the  family,  '  to  allow  of  their  seeing 
whatever  promised  amusement  in  that  gay  city.'  A  letter 
from  one  of  the  young  ladies  on  the  occasion  thus 
describes  the  First  Consul,  as  they  saw  him  at  a  grand 
review  : — 'He  is  a  little  man,  very  pale,  with  grey  eyes, 
and  a  most  sweet  countenance.  His  mouth  is  beautiful. 
His  likeness  to  the  Malmesbury  family  struck  me  greatly.' 

Philip  Francis  the  younger  to  Sarah. 

Paris,  August  14,  1802. 
.  .  .  On  Saturday  we  dined  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Saladin.  My 
father  was  also  asked,  but  engaged  at  Gamba's.  We  had  an  ex- 
cellent dinner  and  very  fine  wines  .  .  .  Among  the  company  were 
the  Swiss  minister,  Anthony  St.  Leger,  and  a  nephew  of  Greneral 
Menou.  They  were  very  polished  and  kind  to  us,  particularly  to 
myself,  qw'ils  out  comhle  d'honnetetes,  to  use  a  French  phrase. 
Yesterday  was  Buonaparte's  birthday,  of  course  a  day  of  public  fete 
and  rejoicing.  We  went  to  court  with  the  rest  of  the  world  to  con- 
gratulate him  .  .  .  Bob  Adair,  St.  Leger,  and  some  other  English, 
were  presented.  The  Prince's  uniform^  having  attracted  the 
notice  of  the  General,  he  did  me  the  honour  this  time  of  addressing 
me.  He  renewed  his  acquaintance  with  my  father,  and  was  very 
civil  to  him.  .  ,  . 


^  I  believe  so  ;  hut  dated  1801  in  some  family  memoranda  in  my  posses- 
sion. And  it  is  in  December  1801 — on  a  former  brief  visit  doubtless — that 
Mr.  Impey,  in  his  life  of  Sir  Elijah  fixes  his  meeting  with  Francis  and 
Madame  Talleyrand  at  the  singular  party  mentioned  in  a  former  chapter. 

'  I  suppose  Mr.  Francis  junior  held  some  situation  in  the  household  of 
the  Prince  of  Wales. 

z2 


340  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1803 

.  .  .  Everytliin^  here  is  done  upon  tke  strictest  court  etiquette, 
and  a  government  recommendation  for  such  objects  at  least  is  the 
best  recommendation  you  can  have.  As  usual,  that  is,  as  the  English 
always  are,  we  were  too  late,  though  in  time  according  to  the  pre- 
fect's notice.  The  circle  had  by  accident  assembled  earlier  than 
the  appointed  hour — the  presentations  to  Madame  Buonaparte  were 
over — and  when  we  came  in,  the  company  were  just  quitting  the 
long  card-room,  which  here  is  the  assembly  and  presentation  room, 
to  go  and  see  the  fireworks  from  another  part  of  the  palace.  We 
followed  with  the  throng,  and  the  ladies  placed  themselves  at  the 
windows  of  a  number  of  smaller  rooms  in  a  suite,  looking  upon  the 
Seiae,  from  the  bridge  of  which  they  were  playing  off  fireworks. 
The  men  stood  behind  them,  and  the  crowd  thickened  gradually,  till 
these  small  rooms  became  so  full  as  to  be  hot  and  uncomfortable. 
This  inconvenience  was  remedied  by  a  worse — a  draught  of  all  the 
worst  air  of  Paris  through  open  windows  on  all  sides  of  you.  This, 
to  me,  with  a  sore-throat,  was  no  recommendation  of  Madame 
Buonaparte's  drawing-room ;  but  I  was  very  well  entertained.  In 
the  first  place,  the  view  from  the  Tuileries,  the  whole  of  which  and 
of  the  Louvre  was  itself  brilliantly  illuminated,  was  the  most  beau- 
tiful thing  that  can  be  conceived.  The  Champs  Elysees  and  gardens 
of  the  Tuileries,  in  a  blaze  of  pyramidical  light.  It  was  a  general 
iUumination  of  all  Paris.  The  Place  de  Vendome  exceeded  in 
splendour  anything  I  saw  or  heard  of  at  our  illumination  for  the 
peace.  Of  the  illuminations  they,  however,  can  give  you  a  better  ac- 
count than  myself,  as  they  walked  about  to  see  them  with  H.  Eyre. 
— Mr.  Saladiu  took  me  about,  and  pointed  out  to  me  all  the  famous 
generals  and  pretty  women.  Once  more  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  even 
at  court  the  quantity  of  beauty  was  very  small.  There  might  be  five 
or  six  decently  pretty  women  amongst  the  whole.  One  very  much  su- 
perior to  the  rest,  a  Madame  Lavallette  ;  Madame  Buonaparte's  niece, 
indeed  a  very  sweet  creature,  both  in  face  and  person.  They  were 
all  well  dressed,  without  hoops,  as  our  women  would  be  for  a  dressed 
ball  or  assembly ;  great  profusion  of  fine  jewels  ;  very  courtly  and 
well  behaved,  and  though  a  good  deal  displayed,  not  indecently. 
Madame  Buonaparte  appears  to  be  about  forty,  I  think  well-looking, 
and  of  incomparable  manner.  The  women  were  very  few  in  number 
compared  with  the  men,  I  think  not  above  seventy  in  all.  Buonaparte 
walked  about,  without  any  attendance,  quite  at  his  ease,  talking  to 
whom  he  Hked,  so  that  I  saw  a  great  deal  of  him.  He  was  last 
night  particularly  gracious  to  the  ladies,  to  whom  he  seldom  speaks. 
It  struck  St.  Leger,  as  it  did  me,  that  Lady  Catherine  is  his  Hkeness. 
After  the  fireworks  were  over,  the  company  returned  into  the  card- 


1803]  DEATH  OF  HAERIBT  FEANCIS.  341 

room,  (the  long  gallery  tung  with  gobelin  tapestry,  lighted  with 
many  lustres  ;  about  twenty  card- tables,  all  at  length,  very  handsome) . 
The  ladies  sat  in  a  line,  with  Madame  Buonaparte  at  the  end  ;  the 
gentlemen  stood  opposite.  Just  here  I  believe  we  might  have  been 
presented,  but  my  father  was  not  to  be  found.  Madame  Buonaparte 
went  out  for  five  minutes,  and,  when  she  returned,  sat  immediately 
down  to  cards. 

This  lasted  an  hour  and  a  half,  during  which  time  we  waited  in 
hopes  of  having  an  opportunity  of  making  our  bow.  But  it  was 
impossible.  The  instant  the  partie  was  over,  Madame  Buonaparte 
got  up,  and,  led  out  by  the  Prefect  du  Palais  (Lord  Morton's  office, 
whom  he  resembles  strongly),  retired. 

Philip  Francis  junior  and  his  sisters  proceeded  to 
Nice,  where  Harriet  died  early  in  the  spring.  She  '  was 
the  first  English  person  buried  in  the  Protestant  burying 
ground  now  set  apart  there  for  that  purpose.  ...  It  was 
found  necessary  that  the  funeral  should  take  place  at 
night,  and  by  torchlight ;  but,  in  spite  of  this  precaution, 
the  Ni^ards  obtained  information  of  the  hour  at  which 
the  melancholy  spectacle  was  to  be  witnessed,  and  a 
crowd  of  them  arrived  at  the  spot  beforehand,  and, 
climbing  upon  the  walls  which  enclosed  it,  watched  the 
ceremony  with  a  mixture  of  curiosity  and  compassion.' 

Elizabeth  Francis,  the  survivor,  though  herself  in  feeble 
health,  insisted  on  returning  home  with  her  brother 
'  through  weather  of  the  most  intense  severity,  and  across 
roads  almost  impassable,'  accompanying  the  carriage  for 
many  miles  on  horseback.  '  There  were  not  wanting 
those  from  whose  sisterly  kindness  she  coidd  ask  and 
receive  the  promise  that  the  last  spot  they  visited  before 
taking  leave  of  Nice  should  be  that  solitary  grave  round 
which,  even  whUe  she  was  hurrying  away  from  it,  her 
heart  still  clung.'  These  attached  friends  were  the 
Misses  Berry,  as  will  be  seen  by  reference  to  the  journal 
of  the  elder  of  these  ladies. 

Early  in  this  melancholy  spring,  of  1803,  letters  from 


342  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  PEANCIS.  [1804 

Nice  ceased  to  reach  Francis  in  London:  owing,  ap- 
parently, to  some  postal  miscarriage.  He  only  heard, 
casually,  of  his  daughter's  death.  His  impatient  spirit 
could  brook  the  delay  no  longer,  and  he  went  as  far  as  Bou- 
logne to  meet  the  returning  party,  but  without  success. 
When  the  party  from  Nice  reached  London,  Francis  was 
boihng  over  with  indignation  at  the  supposed  neglect  of 
his  son.  Philip  the  younger — whose  temper  seems  to 
have  partaken  of  the  heat  of  his  father's — brought  in  the 
collection  of  his  own  letters,  which  he  had  picked  up  at 
the  Poste  Eestante  on  his  way  through  Paris,  and  flung 
them  on  the  table — 'There,  sir,  I  bring  you  your 
daughter  Elizabeth,  and  there  are  all  my  letters ! ' 

The  health  of  Elizabeth,  her  father's  favourite,  as  has 
been  said,  among  all,  soon  gave  similar  cause  for  anxiety. 
One  letter  has  been  already  introduced,  from  Francis  to 
his  kind  friend,  Lady  Thanet,  giving  vent  to  his  miserable 
anticipations.-^  I  now  add  another.  Elizabeth  Francis 
died  a  few  weeks  after  its  date,  on  July  14,  1804,  at  the 
age  of  forty. 

June  28,  1804. 
I  hope,  my  dear  Lady  Thanet,  you  do  not  suspect  me  of  neglecting 
or  forgetting  you.  Helas  !  the  afiliction  that  has  hung  over  me  so 
long  will  soon  be  completed  ;  hope  is  gone.  .  .  I  need  not  say  more 
to  interest  you  for  those  who  survive  it.  .  .  I  attend  the  House  of 
Commons,  and  take  part  in  many  things  in  which  I  have  no  con- 
cern, merely  to  occupy  my  mind,  or  to  distract  my  thoughts,  and  to 
be  as  little  as  possible  alone.  I  must  live  for  others,  and  long 
enough  (I  desire  no  more),  to  see  you  happy,  as  I  trust  and  wish 
you  may  be.    Sooner  or  later,  adversity,  that  does  not  exclude  hope, 


'  According  to  a  memorandum  of  Lady  Francis,  'the  Prince  of  "Wales  dis- 
tinguished Sir  Philip's  daughter  Elizabeth  by  the  most  flattering  and  almost 
fraternal  attentions,  and  used  to  say  she  was  the  most  elegant  and  intellectual 
young  lady  in  London.  This  daughter  had  beautified  the  home  at  East 
Sheen,  expending  a  legacy  of  some  thousand  pounds,  left  her  by  Mrs. 
Chandler;  on  her  death  the  place  lost  all  attraction  for  her  father,  and  ha 
sold  it  to  Lord  Chief  Justice  Macdonald,' 


1804]     DEATHS  OF  ELIZABETH  AND  MRS.  FRANCIS.         S43 

pays  tte  sufferer.  Lord  Thanet  and  you  have  many  years  of  happi- 
ness to  come  ;  hut  we  must  not  expect  more  of  human  Hfe  than  it 
was  intended  to  furnish.     Farewell ! 

Lastly,  in  order  to  complete,  at  the  expense  of  some 
anticipation,  the  melancholy  family  record  of  this  part  of 
Francis's  existence,  his  wife,  the  '  dearest  Honesty '  of 
liis  early  years,  died  on  April  5,  1806.  She  had  been 
for  a  very  long  period  of  her  life  a  confirmed  invalid ; 
subject,  I  believe,  to  epileptic  seizures.  And  her  death 
furnished,  no  doubt,  materials  for  indulgence  by  society 
in  its  ordinary  scandalous  vein  against  the  old  cynic. 
The  following  passage  from  Medwin's  '  Conversations 
with  Lord  Byron '  is  quoted  by  Lady  Francis  (his  second 
wife)  with  due  indignation  : — 

'  It  seems  that  his  conjugal  felicity  was  not  great,  for 
when  his  wife  died,  he  came  into  the  room  where  they 
were  sitting  up  with  the  corpse,  and  said,  '  Solder  her  up  ] 
solder  her  up  ! '  He  saw  his  daughter  crying,  and  scolded 
her,  saying,  she  ought  to  have  died  thirty  years  ago. 
He  married,  shortly  after,  a  young  woman.' 

This  story  the  family  thought  it  worth  their  while 
to  contradict  in  the  newspapers.  As  to  its  authority, 
it  seems  enough  to  say  that  Sir  Philip  married  seven 
years  afterwards,  and  then  with  a  lady  who  could  only 
by  courtesy  be  called  young  :  while  Captain  Medwin  (the 
poet  himself,  who  was  personally  acquainted  with  the 
hero  of  the  story,  could  hardly  have  been  so  ignorant) 
knew  so  little  about  the  matter  that  he  describes  Francis 
as  a  judge  in  India.  Even  if  Francis  had  so  utterly  lost 
his  affection  for  the  fondly  loved  wife  of  his  youth,  there 
was  a  touch  of  chivalry  in  his  nature  which  would  have 
rendered  such  coarseness  impossible. 

Lord  Byron  was  thought  by  Francis — with  whose 
readiness  to  take  umbrage  we  are,  however,  acquainted — 


344  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [18{ 

to  have  disliked  him  ;  and  his  widow,  in  her  memorands 
gives  the  following  version  of  the  reason  why.  But  aj 
that  Lord  Byron  himself  says  respecting  Francis  (in  hi 
journals)  is  that  he  '  remembers  meeting  him  at  dinner  a 
Lord  Grey's.' 

Francis,  she  says,  accounted  for  Lord  Byron's  ill-feehn; 
towards  him  in  the  following  way : — '  The  first  time  I  me 
Lord  Byron  was  at  Earl  Grey's.  I  had  heard  much  of  hi 
abilities,  but  had  not  then  read  his  poetiy.  His  counte 
nance  was  beautiful,  but  haughty ;  and  it  struck  me  tha 
his  carriage  and  dress  had  something  of  peculiarity  whic 
looked  like  pretension.  I  thought  he  was  not  properl 
dressed  for  the  Countess's  drawing-room.  I  was  told  aftei 
wards  that  I  looked  at  his  feet  as  if  I  expected  to  fin 
them  cloven.  No  one  could  have  been  more  innocent  c 
intended  ofience  than  I  was.  At  dinner  I  observed  the 
he  was  silent,  and  seemed  rather  disconcerted.  This  wg 
the  more  noticeable  from  the  party  being  small.  On  ov 
retm-n  to  the  drawing-room,  Lady  Grey  took  the  opporti 
nity  of  telling  me  that  Lord  Byron  had  a  club-foot,  an 
was  very  sensitive  on  this  subject.' 

The  two  following  extracts  from  "Windham's  Diary  ma 
serve  to  identify  the  London  company  in  which  Franc: 
lived  about  this  period  of  his  life. 

'Jan.  14,  1805. — Dinner  at  Francis's:  Lord  Moin 
Fox,  Calcraft,  Philip  Francis,  Elliot,  Sheridan,  who  cam( 
not  being  originally  of  the  party.' 

'  June  19,  1807. — Dined  with  Sir  Philip  Francis 
present  Dukes  of  Bedford,  Devonshire  ;  Lord  FitzwiUian 
Lord  W.  Eussell,  Lord  E.  Spencer,  Lord  Oowpe: 
Pleasant  dinner.' 

To  return  for  a  short  space  to  the  pohtical  life  ( 
Francis,  now  drawing  near  its  close. 

On  April  5,  1805,  he  dehvered  what  is  called  (an 


1805]  AGAINST  CONQUEST  IN  INDIA.  845 

rightly)  in  the  -  Parliamentary  Debates  '  a  '  masterly  and 
luminous '  speech  on  the  affairs  of  India.  He  took  the 
occasion  of  the  then  pending  disputes  with  the  Mahrattas 
to  inveigh,  with  all  the  force  and  precision  which  had 
characterised  his  opinions  on  the  same  subject  thirty  years 
before,  against  the  system  of  conquest  and  annexation, 
which  successive  governors-general  seemed  first  to 
deprecate  and  then  pursue.  He  concluded  by  moving 
that  this  House  adheres  to  the  principle  established  by 
its  unanimous  resolution  of  the  28th  of  May,  1782,  and 
recognised  and  adopted  by  the  legislature  in  subsequent 
Acts  of  Parliament,  namely,  '  that  to  piu-sue  schemes  of 
conquest  and  extension  of  dominion  in  India  are  measures 
repugnant  to  the  wish,  the  honour,  and  the  pohcy,  of  this 
nation.'  His  speech  produced  complimentary  expressions 
on  the  part  of  the  government,  but  his  motion  was  de- 
feated by  the  usual  large  majority. 

The  following  relates  to  the  political  experiments 
which  were  supposed  to  be  contemplated  towards  the 
end  of  Pitt's  life. 

To  the  Thanets. 

Clifton,  August  22,  1805. 
Tes,  my  facetious  Lord  and  most  astonished  Lady,  I  am  in  earnest, 
and  do  really  mean  to  be  at  Brigliton  on  tlie  first  of  October,  -wind  and 
weather  permitting.  How  I  am  to  be  disposed  of  in  the  interval  is 
more  than  you  or  I  can  tell.  The  society  expected  at  Hothfield  is 
supremely  tempting ;  and  if  yon  should  turn  out  as  inviting  as  you 
are  witty  and  beautiful,  who  knows  but  I  may  help  you  to  receive 
your  guests,  and  supply  them  with  conversation  ?  If  you  can  de- 
cypher  the  inclosed,  I  should  take  it  very  kind  of  you,  and  so  would 
the  baronet,  and  both  his  supporters,  if  you  would  answer  it  your- 
self. All  I  can  coUect  from  these  hieroglyphics  is  that  I  shall  dine 
with  the  mayor  of  Bristol  to-morrow  on  turtle  and  venison,  whereof 
I  intend  to  eat  freely,  particularly  the  dove,  in  which  the  aldermen 
of  that  ancient  city  are  known  to  ezcel.  Domestic  arrangements, 
which  I  abhor,  will  force  me  to  town  much  sooner  than  I  intended ; 
so  I  request  that  your  next  charming  letter,  to  be  written  on  Tuesday 


846  MEMOIES  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1805 

or  "Wednesday  next,  may  be  directed  to  the  Square.  Yesterday  we 
went  to  King's  Weston,  a  beautiful  park,  very  elevated,  and  grand 
views.  To-day  I  mean  to  observe  a  strict  fast,  to  prepare  and  do 
penance  for  to-morrow.  A  letter  from  Clieltenliani  contains  the 
following  passage  : — 

'  Great  political  arrangements  are  said  to  be  laid  at  the  meeting 
at  Stow  ;  but  as  yet  I  have  not  heard  anything  of  them,  nor  do  I 
believe  anything  will  be  done.  The  rumours  here  are  that  Pitt, 
keeping  himself,  Lords  Chatham,  Hawksbury,  Castlereagh,  Camden, 
and  Sir  WiUiam  Grant,  as  Chancellor,  in  the  Cabinet,  has  offered  six 
other  seats  to  Fox,  Lords  Grenville,  Moira,  and  Spencer,  Grey,  and 
Windham.  Lord  Albemarle  is  here,  and  Fox  promised  he  would 
positively  write  him  a  line  if  anything  happened  ;  and  he  has  not 
yet  written.' — 19th  August. 

Beso  las  manos  a  V"  S*. 

I  find  among  the  Francis  papers  of  this  period  the 
following  copy  of  a  letter  of  Windham,  unpubhshed 
as  far  as  I  am  aware,  on  the  subject  of  the  Cathohc 
question. 

Pall  Mall,  July  6,  1805. 
My  dear  Hippisley, — Though  I  agree  with  you  that  it  would  be 
very  desirable  to  have  a  sort  of  abridged  statement  of  the  views 
which  guided  me  on  the  Catholic  question  yet  I  know  not  how  such 
a  thing  is  now  to  be  done,  or,  if  done,  what  use  could  be  now  made 
of  it.  Had  I  spoken  indeed  at  the  time  I  ought,  and  have  printed 
afterwards  what  I  had  said,  I  might  both  have  given  a  true  state- 
ment of  my  sentiments  and  have  obviated  such  as  Were  otherwise  ; 
but  anything  now  said  would  only  have  the  appearance  of  cooldng  up 
a  statement  with  a  view  to  a  present  purpose.  The  short  argument 
is  that  in  this  as  in  other  cases  you  must  choose  between  opposite 
dangers,  and  that  the  danger  to  be  apprehended  from  leaving  the 
Catholics  of  Ireland  in  their  present  state  is  greater  than  any  that 
could  be  supposed  to  arise  in  whatever  length  of  time  out  of  the  in- 
crease of  their  present  privileges.  If  the  Church  is  necessary  to  the 
State  (as  it  is)  the  State  must  be  acknowledged  to  be  equally  ne- 
cessary to  the  Church ;  and  what  is  to  become  of  the  Church  of 
England,  should  England  itself  be  lost  ?  or  how  shall  England  be 
maintained  if  the  French  should  get  a  permanent  footing  in  Ireland  ? 
The  condition  of  Ireland  is,  for  a  greater  part  of  its  population,  that 
of  a  semi-barbarism,  which  not  only  keeps  that  country  in  a  depressed 
state,    deprived   for  the  greater  part  of  those  advantages  which 


1805]  WINDHAM  ON  CATHOLIC   CLAIMS.  347 

nature  seems  to  have  intended  for  it,  but  renders  it,  in  the  present 
circumstances  of  the  world,  a  source  of  continued  and  imminent 
danger  to  us.  This  depressed  and  disordered  state  seems  to  have 
been  altogether  produced  by  the  system  of  laws  and  government 
adopted  originally,  perhaps  necessarily,  but  since  continued  unne- 
cessarily. With  respect  to  the  Catholics,  without  converting  them, 
the  only  operation  of  these  laws  has  been  to  brutalise  and  barbarise 
them,  rendering  them  at  the  same  time  our  enemies.  Of  these  laws, 
the  greater  part  have,  during  the  present  reign,  been  repealed,  and, 
upon  the  same  principle,  as  also  with  a  view  to  convey  to  the 
Catholics  the  real  and  practical  benefit  of  what  has  already  been 
done  for  them,  it  will  be  right  in  my  opinion  to  repeal  the  remainder ; 
the  danger  of  such  a  repeal,  even  at  any  period  the  most  distant,  I 
cannot  persuade  myself  to  be  any  at  all.  If  the  Church  of  England 
is  ever  to  be  overturned,  or  undermined,  it  will  not  be  by  the  Catho- 
lics, but  by  sects  of  a  far  different  description,  or  by  persons  of  no 
religion  whatever. 

This  is  the  shortest  statement  which  I  can  give  in  respect  to 
argument  on  the  merits  of  the  question.  But  the  more  immediate 
consideration,  in  the  present  view,  is  that  which  relates  to  the  merits 
of  the  person. 

Can  anyone  suppose,  looking  even  at  the  mere  names  of  those 
who  supported  what  are  called  the  Catholic  claims,  that  to  support 
those  claims,  and  to  be  indifferent  to,  or  careless  about,  the  interest 
of  the  Church,  are  one  and  the  same  thing  ?  Was  the  government 
that  proposed  and  carried  the  union  (having  a  view  to  those  very 
claims)  of  a  description  to  warrant  such  a  notion  ?  Above  all 
others,  was  Mr.  Burke  of  this  description  ?  Mr.  Burke,  who  has 
rendered  more  service  to  the  Church  and  the  Monarchy  than  all  the 
politicians  of  our  time  put  together,  and  who  yet  was  at  times,  and 
to  the  last  moment,  the  most  strenuous  advocate  for  the  repeal  of 
the  Cathohc  laws  ?  With  respect  even  to  myself,  can  it  seem  other- 
wise than  quite  whimsical  to  me  to  hear  myself  doubted  in  that 
respect,  or  to  think  that,  after  being  turned  out  of  Norwich  as  an 
enemy  to  the  Dissenters,  I  shall  now  be  in  danger  of  being  rejected 
at  Oxford  as  not  sufficiently  friendly  to  the  Church  ?  Surely  those 
who  can  adopt  such  notions  are  not  persons  whom  I  could  reclaim 
by  anything  that  I  could  say. 

As  to  the  supposed  inconsistency  in  the  university  of  not  electing 
a  man  who  differs  from  them  on  a  particular  point,  and  even  upon 
that,  not  as  to  the  end,  but  the  means,  it  must  depend  undoubtedly 
on  the  importance  which  they  attach  to  the  point,  and  on  the 
probability  of  its  recurring  in  the  same  shape  in  future ;  but  it  will 


343  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1806 

certainly  be  pushing  their  adherence  to  their  opinions  a  great  way 
if,  on  account  of  such  a  separate  and  special  difference,  they  should 
reject  a  man  whom  otherwise  they  thought,  upon  the  experience  of 
now  a  good  number  of  years,  and  of  many  great  and  trying  occasions, 
to  be  a  fit  depositary  of  their  interests. 

This  seems  to  be  the  substance  of  what  could  be  said  in  any 
discussion  upon  the  subject.  They  are  topics  undoubtedly  which 
may  be  urged  by  friends  ;  but  their  efficacy  may  well  be  doubted  by 
anyone  to  whom  they  do  not  occur  of  themselves.  I  can  as  little 
hope  that  I  have  suggested  to  you  anything  but  what  you  yourself 
will  already  have  said  many  times  over.  It  is  your  own  desire  that 
must  be  my  excuse  for  having  tired  you  and  myself  by  writing  so 
much  as  I  have. 

Everything  I  hear  promises  very  favourably,  bating  only  the 
advantage  that  has  been  gained  by  an  earlier  start. 

With  a  thousand  thanks  for  all  your  kind  zeal, 

Tours,  &c. 
(Signed)         W.  W. 

In  the  debates  of  this  period  Francis  still  spoke 
frequently ;  but  the  subject  of  India,  so  long  uppermost 
in  his  thoughts,  was  one  on  which  he  rarely  touched,  and 
which  indeed  he  announced  his  intention  of  avoiding. 
Perhaps  he  despaired  of  attracting  the  sympathies  of  the 
house  on  the  subject;  perhaps,  also,  cherishing  as  he 
still  did,  in  reliance  on  the  Prince  of  Wales's  favour,  the 
hope  of  returning  there  as  governor-general,  and  having 
learnt  something  of  caution  in  his  long  life,  he  avoided 
engaging  himself  in  controversies  which  might  com- 
promise him  in  his  ambitious  views.  On  one  occasion  he 
made  a  reference — and  a  just  one — to  his  own  exertions 
in  Indian  administration.  This  was  in  the  debate  of 
February  3,  1806,  on  the  erection  of  a  monument  to  the 
memory  of  Lord  Cornwallis.  '  On  this  principle.  Lord 
Cornwallis  gave  to  the  natives  of  Bengal  a  security  in 
their  landed  property.  I  appeal  to  the  noble  lord 
(Castlereagh),  I  appeal  to  the  honourable  Director  (Charles 
Grant),  whether  this  is  not  the  very  plan  which  I  proposed 


1806]  DEATH  OF  LORD  COENWALLIS.  349 

in  1776,  and  wliich  Lord  Cornwallis  has  done  me  tlie 
honour  to  execute  ? ' 

On  the  debate  on  the  affairs  of  India,  March  10,  1806, 
he  "was  very  exphcit  as  to  his  own  intentions. 

'  I  appeal  to  the  honour  and  to  the  justice  of  the  House, 
and  of  every  man  who  hears  me.     What  do  all  these  ac- 
knowledgments of  exalted  merit  in  Lord  Cornwallis,  and 
all  this  approbation  of  his  conduct,  amount  to  but  an  ad- 
mission, nay,  much  more  th^n  an  admission,  positive  parlia- 
mentary  assertion,  that,  from  first  to  last,  everything  I 
have  said  and  done  about  India  was  right  ?  .  .  .  I  hope 
the  house  wiU  hear  me  with  indulgence,  and  the  rather 
that  it  wiU  probably  be  the  last  time  that  I  shall  ever 
address  you  on  any  interest  of  mine  connected  with  the 
subject  of  India.     I  state  it  then  as  a  narrative  merely, 
and  not  to  revive   any   former   argument  or  difference 
with  any  man,  that  I  passed  six  years  in  Bengal  in  per- 
petual contest  and  misery,  and  finally  with  the  immi- 
nent hazard  of  my  life.  .  .  .  Then  a  'wretched  passage  of 
ten  months  to  England,  and  from  that  time,  a  continued 
labour  and  perseverance  of  two- and- twenty  years  in  the 
same  unprofitable  course,  unsupported  and  alone,  with- 
out  thanks   and  reward,  and    now  without  hope.      By 
endeavouring   through  that  long  portion  of  my  life  to 
maintain,  as   I   thought,  right   against   Wrong,    I    have 
incurred  many  enmities  and   secured  no   friendship.     I 
have  sacrificed  my  happiness  and  my  repose,  and  for- 
feited every  prospect  of  personal  advantage.     Have  you 
still  a  doubt  on  this  point  ?     Look  at  the  state  of  deso- 
lation in  which  I  am  left.  .  .  .     My  deliberate  intention 
is  to  withdraw   myself  generally   from   the   discussions 
of  political  questions  purely  and  properly  Indian,  and 
specially  not  to  take  an  active  part,  much  less  a  lead,  in 
the  impeachment,  prosecution,  or  censure,  of  any  Indian 


350  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1806 

delinquency  whatever.  ...  I  will  never  be  concerned 
in  impeaching  anybody.  The  impeachment  of  Mr. 
Hastings  has  cured  me  of  that  folly.  I  was  tried,  and  he 
was  acquitted.' 

In  order  to  appreciate  the  peculiar  meaning  which 
underlies  these  extracts  from  the  debates,  it  is  necessary 
to  return  a  Httle  more  closely  to  the  subject  of  those 
schemes  and  expectations,  still  indulged  in  by  Francis,  to 
which  a  brief  allusion  has  already  been  made. 

The  death  of  Pitt,  in  November  1805,  opened  once 
more  to  that  section  of  the  Whig  party  which  had  sided 
with  Fox  the  prospect  of  the  cessation  of  their  long  exclu- 
sion from  place  and  power.  Francis  had  certainly  shown 
himself  faithful,  even  to  extremity,  to  the  cause  of  the 
section  in  question.  When  almost  all  other  men  of  note 
wavered — among  those,  at  all  events,  who  were  of  the 
same  standing  with  himself — he  had  remained  throughout 
staunch  to  his  party  and  to  his  own  strong  convictions ; 
and  Fox,  as  we  have  seen,  counted  on  him  at  one  time  as 
almost  his  sole  supporter.  The  death  of  Cornwalhs  had 
left  the  ancient  object  of  his  ambition,  the  governor- 
generalship  of  India,  once  more  vacant.  Increasing  years 
had  in  no  degree  cooled  the  fire  of  ambition  in  Francis, 
nor  diminished  the  force  of  his  self-appreciation.  He  had, 
in  addition  to  his  claims  on  the  party,  his  estabhshed 
friendship  with  the  Prince  of  Wales  to  rely  on  as  a 
ground  of  hope.  He  threw  himself  with  all  the  impetuosity 
of  his  nature  into  the  pursuit  of  this  object.  Already,  as 
early  as  March  1806,  he  quarrelled  with  Fox  because  he 
could  not  obtain  the  promise  of  it.  In  the  debate  of  the 
31st  of  that  month,  bitter  words  of  recrimination  passed 
between  the  two  old  associates,  Fox  denying  the  charge 
of  '  desertion '  of  Avhich  Francis  complained  ;  and  from 
that   time  such   cordiahty   as  had  previously   subsisted 


1806]        HOPES  OF  THE  GOVEENOR-GENERALSHIP.  351 

between  them — never,  probably,  very  strong — was  at  an 
end. 

Francis  however,  did  not  easily  relinquish  his  object, 
and  was  accused  (by  his  enemies)  of  resorting  to  intrigue 
and  party  disloyalty  to  secure  it.  According  to  Ijord 
Colchester  (Diary,  ii.  74),  Wellesley  Pole  told  his  lordship 
(June  30,  1806)  that  '  Mr.  Francis  had  sent  a  message 
through  Lady  Devonshire  to  Lord  Wellesley  that,  if  Wel- 
lesley would  not  oppose  his  going  out  as  governor- 
general  to  India,  he,  Mr.  Francis,  would  extinguish  Mr. 
PauU;  to  which  Lord  Wellesley  returned  for  answer  that 
he  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  business.' 

This  is  apparently  the  same  story  with  that  told  by  Lord 
Brougham  in  his  '  Statesmen  of  the  time  of  George  III.' 
that  '  a  proposition  made  to  Lord  Wellesley  by  him, 
through  a  common  friend,  with  the  view  of  obtaining  his 
influence  with  Lord  Grenville,  supposed  erroneously  to  be 
the  cause  of  his  rejection  as  governor-general,  was  at  once 
and  peremptorily  rejected  by  that  noble  person,  at  a 
moment  when  Sir  P.  Francis  was  in  the  adjoining  room, 
ready  to  conclude  the  projected  treaty.'  I  can  trace  no 
other  foundation  for  it. 

According  to  Lady  Francis,  who  speaks  no  doubt, 
though  probably  with  some  inaccuracies  of  recollection, 
the  language  of  her  husband : — 

'  In  an  interview  which  he  had  with  Mr.  Fox  at  his 
house  in  St.  James's  Square,  and  which  he  gives  at  fuU  in 
his  journal,  the  Secretary  pleading  promises  and  previous 
engagement  of  every  situation  that  Mr.  Francis  thought 
himself  entitled  to  aspire  to,  and  intimating  that  he  had 
never  given  any  direct  promise  to  Mr.  Francis,  he  de- 
sired to  know  whether  he  was  to  conclude  that  Mr.  Fox 
meant  that  services  done  by  the  desire  of  the  receiver, 
that  being  always  ready  at  his  call,  and  having  supported 


352  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1806 

him  in  times  of  difficulty  and  danger  with  the  aid  of  his 
abilities,  time,  and  fortune,  were  no  claims,  for  want  of  a 
regular  agreement,  for  having  neglected  to  make  a  Smith- 
iield  bargain.     Mr.  Fox  started  from  his  chair  at  these 
words,  and  exclaimed  with  all  the  ardour  of  a  generous 
spirit,  "  Oh  no,  no ;  his  claims  are  doubly  binding  who 
trusts  to  the  rectitude  of  another."     Yet  this  same  great 
man,  in  the  House  of  Commons,  not  long  after  answered 
Mr.  Francis's  allusions  to  the  neglect  he  had  met  with,  in 
a  manner  that  showed  the  conversation  had  not  made  a 
long  impression  on  his  mind.     I  am  unwilling  to  enlarge 
upon  the  foibles  of  such  a  man  as  Mr.  Fox ;  but  in  this  case 
it  would  be  less  disgraceful  to  plead  want  of  resolution 
than  want  of  those  nobler  feelings  to  which  Mr.  Francis 
applied.     The  most  amiable  qualities  of  Mr.  Fox's  mind 
often  betrayed  the  great  ones.     He  was  surrounded  by 
those  who  won  their  way  to  his  affections  through  her 
who  possessed  his  confidence  and  all  the  avenues  to  his 
heart.     An  attention  to  Mrs.  Fox  was  a  surer  claim  to  his 
gratitude  than  years  of  public  service.    Though  a  minister, 
he  could  not  forget  that  he  was  a  husband.     Sycophants, 
whose  situation  in  life  could  make  these  attentions  flatter- 
ing, soon  discovered  and  took  advantage  of  this  weakness. 
Those  who  can  reconcile  a  superior  mind,  conscious  of 
error,  to  itself  and  its  failings,  are  sure  to  benefit  them- 
selves in  proportion   as   they  deaden  the   painful   and 
honourable  sensibihty  of  their  victim.     When  the  pain  of 
a  diseased  part  suddenly  terminates  without  the  disorder 
being  removed,  corruption  is  not  far  off;  yet  the  patient 
thanks  the  friendly  hand  that  relieves  him  from  the  salu- 
tary pain.     We  must  consider  the  rivalships  and  tracas- 
series  that  surround  the  dispensers  of  honour  and  fortune, 
and  how  httle  Sir  Phihp's  character  was  understood  or 
done    justice   to.     His  integrity  and   penetration  were 


1806]  FOX  IN  THE  MINISTRY.  353 

not  likely  to  recommend  him  to  those  who  for  their  own 
purposes  could  flatter  a  great  miad  into  actions  that  de- 
graded it.  It  is  probable  that  his  pretensions  and  character 
were  so  much  misrepresented  to  Mr.  Fox,  and  so  lightly 
estimated  and  treated  by  those  who  had  his  ear,  that  he 
was  unconscious  of  the  injustice  he  did  either  to  the  in- 
dividual or  society,  by  such  a  mind  being  "  left  >  in  fallow 
without  'manure,"  as  he  says  of'  himself;  "  but  he  did  not 
abandon  his  principles  with  his  hopes,"  and  to  the  hour 
of  his  death  was  to  be  "  found  where  he  was  left "  by  the 
administration  of  1806,  holding  the  same  language,  and 
presenting  an  example  of  consistency  as  inimitable  as  un- 
imitated.  Left  indeed  he  was  ;  for  the  new  cabinet,  by 
departing  in  practice  from  the  theories  which  had  gained 
the  confidence  of  the  people  when  in  opposition,  gave  oc- 
casion of  triumph  to  the  enemy.  The  conduct  of  the 
Whigs  during  their  short  administration  did  more  towards 
making  the  country  submit  to  measures  of  which  we  are 
now  reaping  the  bitter  fruit  than  all  the  abilities  of  Mr. 
Pitt  or  all  the  power  and  influence  of  the  court.  What 
did  the  Whigs  do  when  they  were  in  power  ?  How  did 
Mr.  Fox  adhere  to  his  principles  ?  Did  he  not  double 
the  income-tax,  exempt  foreign  property  to  please  the 
court,  &c.  &c.  ?  Were  questions  and  observations  sooner 
made  than  answered?  In  vain  Sir  Philip  protested 
privately,  and  opposed  publicly  ;  in  vain  he  said  to  Mr. 
Fox  : — "  Sir,  you  are  not  aware  of  the  consequences  of 
departing  from  the  principles  which  gave  you  the  con- 
fidence of  the  people.  You  will  never  have  the  confidence 
of  the  court ;  by  preserving  your  popularity,  you  may 
support  yourself  in  spite  of  it,  or,  if  you  fall,  it  will  be 
with  honour ;  you  are  falling  into  a  snare  that  your 
enemies  have  prepared  for  you:  they  rejoice,  and  will 
support  you  in  those  measures  by  which  you  will  have  all 

VOL.  II.  A  A 


354  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1806 

the  odium,  and  when  you  have  lost  the  pubhc  voice,  which 
has  forced  you  upon  the  court,  you  and  your  party  will 
be  turned  out  without  difficulty,  and  they  will  reap  all  the 
advantage,"  This  was  called  the  language  of  discontent, 
and  was  not  listened  to,  but  the  event  proved  that  it  was 
prophetic.  Lord  Grenville,  and  not  Mr.  Fox,  procured 
him  the  red  ribbon,  which  was  at  that  time  a  considerable 
distinction.  Why  his  Lordship,  who  was  not  much  con- 
nected with  him,  interested  himself  about  this  afiair  is  best 
known  to  himself ;  but  it  is  well  known  that  some  years 
since,  at  a  dinner  where  Lord  Grenville  was  in  company 
with  Mr.  Francis  and  many  other  gentlemen,  the  conver- 
sation turning  upon  Junius,  after  many  conjectures,  Mr. 
Francis  not  being  then  suspected.  Lord  Grenville  said 
aloud,  so  that  aU  the  party  heard  him,  "/know  who  Junius 
was,"  or  words  to  that  effect.  A  general  silence  ensued ; 
the  authority  being  too  good  to  be  doubted.  Sir  Philip 
said  in  an  under  voice  to  his  neighbour,  "  As  Lord  Gren- 
ville knows,  there  is  an  end  of  all  question  on  the  subject ; 
he  will  tell  the  world  one  of  these  days."  Whether  Lord 
Grenville  heard  this  or  no  is  uncertain,  but  he  added  after 
a  pause,  '■^  I  will  never  tell."  Thus  we  have  still  living  a 
nobleman  whose  integrity  is  above  aU  suspicion,  who  can 
inform  us  certainly  on  this  long  agitated  question.  It  is 
remarkable  that  Sir  PhUip  once  said,  upon  Junius  being 
supposed  to  be  connected  with  the  Grenvilles,  "Then 
why  should  it  be  ascribed  to  me  ?  "  ' 

To  the  reader  who  has  traced  the  conduct  and  charac- 
ter of  Francis  through  these  pages,  it  will  be  but  too 
plain  how  utterly  impossible  it  would  have  been  for  Fox 
and  Grenville  to  send  him  again  to  India,  where  six-and- 
twenty  years  of  change  since  his  stay  there  had  created  a 
new  world,  into  which  his  fixed  ideas  and  intemperate 
disposition  could  only  have  brought  confusion.     As  Lord 


1806]  LOED    GEENVILLE  AND  JUNIUS.  355 

Brougham  says,  they  might  as  easily  have  brought  the 
Himalayas  to  Leadenhall  Street.  To  him,  and  a  few  at- 
tached friends,  the  question,  no  doubt,  presented  itself 
under  a  different  aspect.  But  what  were  the  immediate 
causes  of  his  failure,  whether  the  cabinet's  honest  opinion 
of  his  deficiencies,  or  personal  objection  on  the  part  of 
the  tenacious  King  to  an  enemy  of  Hastings,  or  the  un- 
popularity in  the  same  quarter  which  the  friendship  of  the 
Prince  of  Wales  was  likely  to  secure  him,  he  nowhere 
discloses,  and  probably  did  not  know.  That  Junius  had 
anything  to  do  with  the  matter,  or  was  at  this  particular 
time  present  to  the  minds  of  any  statesman,  there  seems 
(notwithstanding  these  unauthenticated  stories  about  Lord 
Grenville)  no  reason  for  believing.  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot 
(Lord  Minto)  obtained  the  governor-generalship.  Pran- 
cis  is  said  to  have  been  offered,  and  declined,  the  govern- 
ment of  the  Cape,  and  also  a  much  more  precarious 
honour,  that  of  Buenos  Ayres  if  we  had  succeeded  in  taking 
it.  But  (as  Lady  Francis  has  told  us)  the  final  reward  of 
his  fiercely  agitated  life  was  neither  more  nor  less  than  a 
Civil  EJaight  Conipanionship  of  the  Order  of  the  Bath. 

It  should  be  added  here — in  justice  to  one  whose  '  evil 
deeds  are  written  in  brass ' — that  the  conduct  of  the 
Prince  of  Wales  towards  the  cynical  but  not  ungenial 
humourist,  whose  company  he  so  valued,  under  this  deep 
and  final  disappointment  of  his  life,  was  marked  at  once 
with  real  friendship  and  delicate  sensibility.  If  the  Prince 
was  one  of  the  most  selfish  of  men,  his  severest  judges  can- 
not deny  that  in  cases  where  selfishness  did  not  interfere, 
he  often  showed  himself  one  of  the  best-natured.  '  Nothing ' 
(to  quote  from  a  memorandum  of  Sir  Philip's  daughter, 
Mrs.  Johnson)  '  could  have  been  kinder  than  the  conduct 
of  the  Prince  towards  his  old  friend,  under  the  first  pres- 
sure of  his  indignant  feelings  after  the  refusal  of  India. 

A  A   2 


350  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [180e 

"  Francis,"  said  the  Prince,  "if  you  will  accept  the  Cape 
I'U  send  you  on  farther  when  I  come  into  power."  And  in 
the  same  year,  1806  (it  was  also,  as  has  been  before  stated, 
that  of  the  death  of  his  first  wife),  we  find  Sir  Philip 
"  domesticated '  (as  Wraxall  expresses  it)  at  the  Pavilion, 
and  the  Prince  taking  every  opportunity  of  showing  him 
attention,  both  directly  and  through  his  family.  Mrs. 
Johnson,  in  a  family  memorandum,  records  her  own 
emotions  at  being  asked  to  dinner  for  the  first  time 
to  meet  her  father  at  the  Pavilion,  and  having  the 
Prince's  own  carriage  sent  for  her  : — 

'  Of  the  Prince's  genuine  good  humour,'  she  proceeds, 
'  an  instance  may  also  be  mentioned  here.     It  is  well 
known  that  to  an  excessive  love  of  music  he  added  much 
real  taste  as  an  amateur,  and  some  power  as  a  performer; 
but  his  execution  was  not  particularly  good ;  and  Mr. 
Francis,  Sir  PhiHp's  son,  with  whom  he  frequently  sang, 
was  sometimes  comically  struck  by  the  loudness  of  his 
voice,  and  his  peculiar  manner.     On  one  of  the  above- 
mentioned  evenings  at  the  Pavilion,  H.  E.  H.  after  dinner, 
having  proposed  music,  and  being  actually  engaged  in 
performing  with  Mr.  Francis  and  some  other  person  the 
pretty  hunting  trio  of  Azioh,  of  which  the  JDurden  is, 
Ritorneremo  a  Clori,  al  tramontar  del  dl,  Mr.  Francis 
suddenly  found   the  full  face  of  the  Prince,   somewhat 
heated  by  the  eagerness  of  his  performance,  in  immediate 
contact  -with  his  own ;  and  this  circumstance,  combined 
with  that  of  the  loud  bass  tones  in  which  H.  E.  H.  was 
singing  the  words,  Ritorneremo  a  Clori,  striking  him  in 
some   ludicrous   point   of  view,   he   became   absolutely 
unable  to  resist  the  effect  on  his  nerves,  and  burst  out 
laughing.     The  Prince  evidently  perceived  that  his  own 
singing   had  produced  the   unseasonable  laughter,   but, 
instead   of  showing   displeasure   at   a   rudeness   which. 


1806]  LEAVES  PARLIAMENT.  357 

however  involuntary,  would  have  been  resented  by  many 
far  less  "  illustrious  "  persons,  he  only  called  the  offender 
to  order  with  the  words,  "  Come,  come,  Philip ! "  his 
countenance  betraying  at  the  same  time  a  strong  in- 
clination to  join  in  the  laugh  himself;  and  the  trio 
proceeded  to  a  conclusion.  Sir  Philip '  (adds  his  daughter) 
'  by  his  original  humour,  and  great  powers  of  conversation, 
was  often  the  life  of  the  Pavilion,  though  his  temperate 
habits  made  the  excesses  occasionally  committed  at  the 
Prince's  table  distasteful  to  him ;  and  his  royal  host, 
perceiving  him  ready  to  drop  asleep  when  the  revels 
were  long  protracted,  would  say,  "  We  must  carry  grand- 
papa away  to  bed." '  ^ 

Francis,  now  Sir  Philip,  was  re-elected  for  Appleby  in 
December  1806.  But  his  name  no  longer  occupies  its 
usual  conspicuous  place  in  the  index  to  the  '  Parliamentary 
Debates.'  On  March  25,  1807,  he  asked  a  few  questions 
'  on  the  affairs  of  India,'  including  the  mutiny  of  Vellore  ; 
and  this  is  the  last  occasion,  so  far  as  I  have  observed,  on 
which  his  name  appears.  There  was  a  new  election  in 
June  1807,  consequent  on  the  change  of  ministry  in 
April,  at  which  he  was  not  returned ;  and  his  parlia- 
mentary career  here  closes.  It  will  be  seen  that  he 
estimated  at  15,000/.  the  expenditure  in  which  his  elec- 
tions had  involved  him. 

'  The  writer  of  tHs  memorandum,  wliile  acknowledging  the  general  cor- 
rectness of  Sir  Nathaniel  Wraxall's  portrait  of  Sir  Philip,  denies  altogether 
that  part  of  it  which  represents  him  as  saturnine,  and  '  a  man  without  a 
smile.' 


853  MEMOIRS   OF    SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1807 


CHAPTER  V. 

LATER   YEARS. 

Relations  with  the  Prince  of  Wales — Reform — Peninsular  War — 
Second  Marriage — His  conduct  after  the  appearance  of  'Junius 
Identified' — Personal  Character — Anecdotes  and  Tahle  Talk— Last 
Illness — Death. 

We  have  now  traced  Sir  Philip  through  his  career  in 
Parliament :  which,  together  with  his  earlier  period 
of  official  employment,  constitutes  his  public  Hfe.  But  he 
continued  for  some  years  longer  to  take  an  active  interest 
in  pohtical  events,  and  to  play  a  conspicuous  part  in 
society,  especially  that  of  his  chief  political  allies. 

Notwithstanding  his  occasional  flights  of  indecorous 
independence,  the  intimacy  between  himself  and  the 
company  of  Carlton  House  and  the  Pavilion  subsisted  for 
a  considerable  time  after  1806.  When  the  Second 
Eegency  was  expected  (1811),  Francis  composed  those 
'  Thoughts  on  the  Eegency  Question '  which  are  cited 
in  Taylor's  '  Junius  Identified '  by  way  of  comparison 
of  style ;  and  in  which  the  Prince's  rights  are  insisted  on. 
But  with  the  Prince's  gradual  withdrawal  from  his  old 
Whig  connections,  his  familiarity  with  Francis  began  to 
decline.  The  following  extracts  from  letters  to  the 
Dowager  Marchioness  of  Downshire^  explain  both  his 
position  and  his  views  respecting  it.     They  are  without 

^  Baroness  Sandys  of  Omberley  in  her  own  right.  This  lady  was  on 
terms  of  friendship  with  the  Prince  of  Wales,  whom  she  received  as  a  guest 
nt  Omberley  in  1806. 


1807]       RELATIONS   WITH  THE  PRINCE   OF  WALES.  35» 

date ;  but  from  the  allusions,  I  conclude  tlieni  to  have 
been  written  a  little  before  the  commencement  of  the 
Eegency. 

St.  James's  Square. 
Dear  Madam, — Tour  Ladyship's  moat  generous  letter  arrived 
yesterday  in  time  to  destroy  all  appetite  for  food  grosser  than 
nectar  and  ambrosia  .  .  .  You  will  think  my  pen  in  a  strange 
rambling  mood  this  morning ;  therefore  by  your  leave  we  will 
return  to  Brighton,  and  your  hospitable  roof.  So  his  R.  H.  dines 
with  you  three  or  four  times  a  week,  and  Sundays  into  the  bargain  ? 
For  once  iii  my  life  I  wish  I  were  Prince  of  Wales  ;  and  he  is  very 
communicative,  and  candid  (not  orange,  I  hope,  for  the  sake  of  my  un- 
fortunate natale  sohmi),hvLt  chatty  and  sincere ;  and  talks  politics,  and 
literature,  Walter  Scott  and  Tommy  Moore,  Voltaire  and  Sam  John- 
son, Napoleon  and  Nelson,  Perceval,  Castlereagh,  and  the  musical 
glasses  ?  In  short,  of  everything  in  the  universe,  and  many  other 
things  besides  curious  subjects  !  And  you  believe  he  is  honest,  and, 
moreover,  has  a  heart  of  English  mould,  expansive  enough  to  contain, 
and  stout  enough  to  retain,  those  principles  that  I  have  been  trying 
to  implant  in  his  heart  long  before  you  were  born,  and  very  soon 
after  he  was  .  .  .  Tour  wishes  deceive  you,  as  mine  have  done  me. 
Ton  have  often  witnessed  the  apparent  docility  and  conviction  with 
Avhich  he  listened  when  I  laid  before  him  at  his  own  seeking  the 
principles  that  English  monarchs  should  bring  to  the  throne  or — 
they  may  learn  them  somewhere  else.  He  was  out  of  conceit  with 
the  ministry  of  that  day,  as  he  is  now  with  this  ;  they  had  spited  him, 
and  he  relished  a  doctrine  which  contemned  them  ;  he  is  in  the  same 
predicament  now,  but  I  converted  you  and  myself.  Tant  mieux — 
pas  tant  mieux,  for  I  have  no  influence  over  him.  Tant  pis — pas 
tant  pis,  for  you  may  have.  Tant  mieux — pas  tant  mieux,  for  that 
might  accustom  him  to  other  petticoat  government.-  Tant  pis — pas 
tant  pis,  for  he  has  a  clever  wife  and  daughter.  Tant  mieux — pas 
tant  mieux,  for  he  hates  them  both!  There's  a  parody'  at  your 
service,  I  need  not  tell  you  it  is  only  suh  rosa,  to  dimple  your  fait 
cheeks  into  a  smile  and  steal  a  ray  from  those  cerulean  eyes  that 
remind  people  so  much  of  heaven  !  I  am  in  a  great  fright  lest  you 
should  resent  my  personalities  to  yourself  and  your  royal  friend. 
On  the  first  count,  remember  I  am  too  old  to  be  your  father,  and  have 
long  viewed  beauty  merely  en  connoisseur  ;  the  brightest  eyes  may 
dazzle,  but  cannot  inflame  me.     For  the  second,  I  have  the  same 


The  original  was  by  the  Chevalier  Boufflers. 


860  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1807 

excuse.  Alas  !  I  am  too  old  to  hope.  It  is  excusable,  nay,  more,  it  is 
meritorious  in  you  to  believe  tbat  the  King  will  keep  the  promise  of 
the  Prince,  though  all  history  is  against  you.  From  the  golden  age, 
when  Jove  supplanted  old  Saturn,  to  the  last  coronation  in  this  age  of 
iron,  all  heirs-apparent  have  exerted  and  disappointed  the  hopes  of 
the  people.  Our  friend  will  first  forget  our  principles,  and  then  our 
persons,  and  the  sooner  for  having  contracted  debts  to  us,  not  only 
of  honoiar,  but  promise  to  pay.  Has  not  your  political  interest, 
your  time,  your  table,  your  fortune,  all  but  your  own  fair  self,  been 
at  his  disposal  for  some  years,  and  have  I  not  attended  his  call  when- 
ever he  was  in  any  extra  dif&culty,  and  wished  to  astonish  his  usual 
counsellors  by  his  wisdom  ?  Have  I  not  left  my  bed  early,  and  late 
taken  rest,  and  eaten  the  bread  of  carefulness,  and  waited  on  him 
long  after  the  mezza  notte  ?  And  has  not  my  pen,  my  experience, 
knowledge,  and  judgment,  such  as  they  are,  been  at  his  service,  and 
when  did  I  ever  claim  my  own  if  it  could  gain  him  credit  ?*  Tour 
Ladyship  and  Macmahon  only  knew  of  the  letters  ^  at  the  time,  or 
that  I  have  many  other  claims  on  him ;  but  so  much  the  none. 
Merit  is  a  saucy  creditor,  who  presents  his  bill ;  the  sinner  falls  at 
your  feet,  and  loves  much,  because  he  is  forgiven  much.  How 
much  grander  we  feel  when  conferring  a  free  grace  than  when 
paying  an  old  debt !  Neither  Charles  II.  nor  Louis  XVIII.  could 
endure  the  face  of  one  of  the  class  cruelly  called  '  meritorious.'  For 
my  part,  I  believe  it  would  answer  better  to  say,  '  Pray  forgive  me 
my  services,'  than  '  Pray  reward  them.'  Is  it  past  doubt  that  he 
hates  C.  and  raves  at  P.  ?  .  .  .  Yet  it  is  something  that  he 
still  seeks  you,  and  has  not  yet  given  me  up,  which  I  am  sure  he 
will  do  when  he  deserts  those  principles  which  he  knows  are  to 
me 

Dear  as  the  ruddy  drops  which  visit  this  sad  heart. 

I  have  his  command  to  visit  him  this  autumn,  and  shall  then  find 
out  whether  the  change  that  E(rskine  ?)  and  I  talked  of  has  really 
taken  place.  I  expect  there  will  be  one  ere  long  in  his  situation, 
but  not,  I  trust,  in  his  political  views,  till  power  and  flattery 
have  their  usual  effect  on  him.  No  thanks  to  E(rskine?)  and 
S(heridan?)  if  he  be  not  as  all  his  fathers  were.  But  do  not  mind 
a  word  they  say.  M(oira?)  is  not  much  better.  Trust  S.  as  you 
would  a  jack-a-lanthern,  E.  as  a  quicksand,  and  M.  a  mirage  in  the 
desert.  These  three  friends  have  been  his  worst  enemies.  They 
have  counteracted  all  the  good  I  might  have  done,  and  out  of  mere 


Probably  those  asking  for  command  in  the  army  (nnfe,  chap.  iv.). 


1807]       LETTER  TO  MARCHIONESS  OF  DOWNSHIRE.  361 

spite  and  envy,  lest  I  should  obtain  some  influence.  Honest  Jack 
can  tell  you  how  they  sneer  at  any  Utopian  and  exploded  politics. 
Our  Prince  has  one  peculiar  weakness  :  he  is  led  by  fashion,  the  hero 
of  the  newspapers  is  his  hero  of  the  day.  .  .  .  S.  never  forgave 
nae  for  a  truism  that  escaped  me.  We  were  giving  names  in  lieu  of 
titles  to  each  other  one  evening  at  the  Pavilion.  The  Prince  said 
the  Man  of  Ross  was  greater  than  Lord  Ross ;  Fox  was  the  man  of 
the  people,  &c.  The  Prince  did  your  humble  servant  the  honour  of 
calling  him  the  '  Wise  Man  of  the  Bast.'  S.  looked  vipers  at 
me,  and  enquired  whether  sage  hotnme  meant  a  peupres  cotmne  sage 
femme  ?  All  laughed,  and  I  said  that,  being  so  honoured  by  the 
Prince,  I  had  no  wish  to  change  my  title  or  (bowing  to  Mr.  S.) 
I  might  be  celebrated  as  the  man  in  debt  to  Mr.  S. ;  but  as  that 
would  be  incredible,  I  would  try  to  acquit  myself  by  giving  him  the 
choice  of  two  names,  the  man  who  extends  England's  credit  or 
the  man  of  the  papers.  (N.B.  that  very  morning  a  puff  had 
appeared  which  the  P.  said  was  ««.  peu  fort.)  H.  R.  H.  and  C. 
laughed  till  they  saw  S.  was  cut  to  the  quick,  when  the  Prince, 
ivith  a  pitying  air  and  tone,  said,  '  Don't  mind  him,  old  fellow  !  His 
penalty  shall  be  to  find  a  name  for  ine,  and  woe  betide  him  if  I'm 
not  content  with  it ! '  None  had  yet  ventured  on  one  for  Mm,  and  all 
called  out,  '  Name,  name.'  I  said  with  strong  emphasis,  '  The  Man,' 
and  paused.  '  Go  on,'  said  S.  '  I've  done,'  said  I.  '  I'm  con- 
tent,' said  the  Prince,  bowing  gracefully  round.  I  ought  to  have 
prefaced  that  the  conversation  began  with  the  Prince  complaining 
of  '  Pitt's  impudence  '  in  limiting  Ms  power  of  making  peers  (among 
the  Regency  restriction),  when  he  made  so  many  himself,  '  that  I 
took  care  he  should  hear  (added  his  R.  H.)  that  I  said  the  great  men 
in  France  threw  titles  off  because  Pitt  had  made  them  so  cheap  and 
contemptible  !  I  know  my  father  objected  to  several  both  for  the 
Garter  and  the  peerage.  J.  P.,  he  said,  who  ever  thought  of  J.  P. 
being  a  Knight  of  the  Garter,  or  De  G.  or  G.  or  0.  being  peers  ! ' 
One  of  us,  I  think  it  was  Curran,  said,  '  If  I  had  not  the  honour  to 
be  here,  I  should  say  your  R.  H.'s  circle  could  not  be  eleva+ed  by  the 
peerage ;  it  is  the  first  in  Europe,  because  it  is  peerless.'  This  sally 
had  un  grand  sucees,  and  the  Prince  said,  '  What  think  you  of  Lord 
Shakespeare,  Marquis  Milton,  and  Duke  Dryden  ?  '  This  led  to  the 
conversation  I  have  tried  to  give  you  an  idea  of,  but  only  spoilt  and 
flattened  on  paper.  True  wit  only  will  bear  carriage  and  decanting ; 
this  kind  of  snipsnap  requires  voice,  look,  gesture,  rapid  retort,  or 
expressive  pause.  You  know  how  the  Prince  excels  in  mimic  art, 
and  likes  to  practise  what  is  sure  to  be  applauded  ;  but  he  would 
have  had  higher  aims  had  he  not  been  sacrificed  to  low  jealousy  by 


062  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1807 

a  narrow-minded  father,  and  led  into  ignoble  triumphs  by  interested 
companions.  Yet  '  His  delights  were  dolphin-like  ;  they  showed  his 
back  above  the  element  they  lived  in.'  There  was  always  a  hope, 
and  I  would  have  led  the  most  forlorn,  but  S.  undermined  beneath 
my  feet. 

From  another  letter : — 

.  .  .  Mr.  Fox  made  up  to  me,  and  exerted  all  his  eloquence  and 
all  his  agrements  to  win  me,  making  a  frank  and  candid  exposure  of 
his  views  and  opinions,  which,  suiting  with  my  own,  particularly  in 
our  apprehensions  of  future  danger  to  the  country  from  the  arrogant 
undoubling  inexperience  of  Mr.  Pitt,  as  did  by  a  tongue  which 
'  dropped  manna  and  could  make  the  worse  appear  the  better 
reason,'  and  backed  by  a  sovereign  like  George  III.,  on  whose  regal 
character  we  perfectly  agTced,  I  told  him  with  frankness  like  his 
own  that,  so  long  as  his  public  life  was  ruled  by  those  principles 
he  had  laid  down  for  his  guidance,  I  would  be  his  faithful  adherent, 
nor  ever  desert  him  till  he  deserted  himself  Mr.  Fox  seemed  well 
pleased  at  that  time  with  my  services.  I  will  defy  any  man  to  say 
that  I  ever  failed  him  when  his  ranks  were  reduced  to  almost  the 
skeleton  of  what  he  once  commanded.  I  stood  to  his  colours,  for 
he  fought  under  them  bravely  ;  when  my  dearest  friend  left  him,  and 
conjured  me  to  accompany  him,  I  never  hesitated.  My  elections 
cost  me  15,000Z.,  and  during  the  whole  time  I  was  in  the  House,  I 
never  gave  a  vote  from  considerations  of  personal  interest,  but 
devoted  myself  to  Mr.  Fox,  because  I  believed  he  understood  and 
was  advocating  the  true  interests  of  this  country.  It  is  true  thcit 
he  often  condescended  to  assure  me  that  he  considered  me  the 
fittest  man  in  England  for  the  government  of  India,  and  lamented 
it  was  not  in  his  power  to  send  me  there,  with  many  other  flattering 
protestations ;  but  it  was  at  a  time  when  there  was  little  chance  of 
his  ever  being  called  on  to  realise  them ;  his  rival  was  younger  than 
himself,  and  at  that  time  more  temperate,  and  I  was  well  assured 
that,  while  he  lived,  Mr.  Fox  had  little  chance  of  being  called  to 
power  by  George  III.  When  his  private  affairs  had  fallen  into 
hopeless  disorder,  so  that  it  appeared  he  must  either  sell  himself  or 
be  sold  up,  his  friends  determined  to  secure  him  an  independence 
which  would  relieve  his  mind  from  the  pressure  and  annoyance  of 
pecuniary  embarrassments,  and  secure  a  continuation  of  his  services 
to  the  country.  Among  those  who  came  forward  on  this  occasion, 
no  one  was  more  ready  and  active  than  myself,  and  I  took  my  part 
and  would  have  done  more  had  more  been  wanted  ;  but  the  object 
we  had  in  view  was  soon  completed,  and  we  bought  an  annuity  on 


1807]  THE  WHIGS  AND  FOX.  803 

his  life  of  3,000Z.  per  ammm.  I  miglit  enumerate  many  other  ser- 
vices of  a  political  nature  that  I  rendered  him ;  I  might  truly  say 
that,  whenever  my  duty  to  my  country  allowed  it,  I  was  more  at  his 
command  than  my  own.  I  did  not  join  the  secession,  it  is  true, 
because  I  thought  it  criminal  to  despair  of  the  public  weal,  but  I 
was  stiU  under  his  direction,  and  at  his  beck ;  I  shared  in  his  un- 
popularity, when  the  calumnies  of  the  court  party  pointed  out  all  who 
opposed  a  ruinous  war,  or  the  paying  treacherous  allies  for  fighting 
their  own  battles,  as  the  enemies  of  their  country,  the  traitors  who 
would  betray  England  into  becoming  a  province  of  France.  This 
was  all  my  reward  for  my  fidelity  to  my  country  and  Mr.  Fox,  while 
he  was  in  opposition ;  but  at  length  the  day  came  when  the  failure 
of  Mr.  Pitt's  plans,  his  death,  and  the  disastrous  state  in  which  he 
had  left  the  country,  opened  men's  eyes,  and  they  found  that  Mr.  Fox 
and  Lis  party  had  been  wise  statesmen  and  true  prophets  ;  they  were 
willing  to  try  how  far  that  wisdom  and  that  foresight  would  stand 
the  test  of  oifice.  The  voice  of  the  country  called  them  to  the  helm, 
but  there  was  a  deeper  and  darker  motive  which  lurked  behind  the 
throne  that  induced  the  King  to  admit  the  Whigs,  whom  he  detested 
with  Mr.  Fox  at  their  head,  to  a  temporary  and  delusive  power ;  he 
hoped  to  make  them  disgrace  themselves,  and  lose  the  popularity 
lately  acquired  by  the  fatal  consequences  of  those  favourite  measures 
of  his  which  they  had  honestly  opposed.  I  need  not  tell  you  that 
they  have  fallen  into  the  snare ;  that,  in  hope  of  conciliating  the 
King,  they  have  betrayed  the  nation.  Vain  hope !  Kings  never 
forgive  the  sins  of  friends  of  the  people.  They  are  wormwood  to 
them.  Take  my  word  for  it,  when  they  have  done  a  few  more  jobs 
for  him,  the  best  of  princes  will  seize  the  first  pretext  of  sending 
every  Whig  packing  after  his  reputation.  Thanks  to  Mr.  Fox,  I 
shall  be  spared  the  affront. 

A  few  private  letters,  and  extracts  from  contemporary 
publications,  are  the  only  materials  left  to  carry  on 
his  hfe  for  a  few  subsequent  years.  The  next  is  addressed 
to  Canning,  on  behalf  of  a  nephew  of  his  schoolmaster, 
Mr.  Thicknesse,  to  whom  he  never  forgot  his  early 
obligations. 

Tuntridge,  October  20,  1807. 

Dear  Sir, — I  trust  you  will  believe  me  when  I  assure  you  that 

nothing  less  than  an  interest  and  a  claim  which  I  cannot  resist 

would  induce  me  to  take  the  liberty  of  soliciting  your  favour  and 

protection  to  a  very  deserving  officer,  who  has  no  friends.     Captain 


364  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1807 

Thicknesse,  whose  letter  to  me  I  have  the  honour  to  enclose  to  you, 
was  appointed  by  Lord  Harwich  to  his  present  humble  command  at 
my  request.  About  a  year  ago  he  had  an  opportunity,  which  indeed 
he  eagerly  sought,  of  distinguishing  himself  in  an  action  on  the 
coast  of  Prance,  for  the  events  of  which  he  was  formally  tried  and 
acquitted,  with  all  the  honour  and  applause  that  a  court-martial 
could  express,  and  presented  with  a  sword  by  the  committee  at 
Lloyd's.  Not  having  the  honour  of  knowing  Lord  Mulgrave,  I 
cannot  address  him  on  the  subject  as  perhaps  I  ought  to  do.  All 
that  I  desire  and  request  is  that  this  gallant  officer,  for  whose  con- 
duct I  would  answer  at  all  hazards,  may  not  be  passed  by  at  the  next 
promotion,  and  that  Lord  Mulgrave  will  have  the  goodness  to  bear 
him  in  mind,  if  an  opportunity  should  offer,  of  employing  him ;  and 
this,  I  think,  he  might  be  inclined  to  do  if  he  would  order  the 
sentence  of  the  court-martial  to  be  laid  before  him.  A  word  from 
you,  in  support  of  the  merit  of  this  gentleman  and  that  of  his  case, 
cannot  fail  of  success.  Sincere  and  barren  gratitude  is  all  that  I 
have  to  offer  you  in  return. 

Now  I  cannot  refrain  from  telling  you  that  I  have  just  read  the 
King's  proclamation  about  British  seamen  with  perfect  satisfaction. 
It  seems  to  me  to  be  founded  in  true  policy,  sound  prudence,  and  a 
right  sense  of  national  dignity.  These  are  the  priaciples  that 
ensure  firmness,  when  firmness  shall  be  wanted.. 

With  every  wish  for  your  honour,  and  with  the  sincerest  personal 
esteem, 

I  am,  dear  sir, 
Tour  most  robedient  and  faithful  servant,. 

P.  Teancis. 
Right  Hon.  George  Canning,  &c,  &c. 

To  Lady  Thanet. 
Berkeley  Castle,  9  in  the  morning,  Nov.  11,  1807. 

Dear  Madam, — Your  anxiety  to  know  something  of  this  place  is 
very  laudable  and  fit  to  be  gratified.i  So  in  strict  confidence,  I  can 
assure  you  that  all  the  ancient  ladies  you  have  seen  at  the  Wells 
and  their  grandmothers,  if  they  had  any,  are  mere  modern  babies 
and  infants  compared  to  thte  antiquities  of  both  sexes  with  whom  I 
made  an  acquaintance  yesterday.  You  must  know  it  rained  aU  day, 
and  I  should  have  been  drowned  but  that  the  room  I  live  in  (last 
occupied  by  King.  Stephen)  is  two  hundred  feet  above  the  level  of 
the  Severn,  and  the  walls  twelvefeet  thick.  The  crows,  who  dwelt 
under  me,  were  all  washed  away. 

My  bed  is  of  solid  oak,  proportioned  to  the  walls.     The  tester  is 


1807]  DOMESTIC   LIFE.  865 

of  ebony,  carved  and  gilt  in  tHe  Saxon  fashion.  The  -vs'hole  apart- 
ment had  been  neglected  since  the  time  of  King  Harold,  but  was 
repaired  and  beautified  for  the  reception  of  William  Rufus,  since 
which  it  was  occupied  for  a  few  days  by  King  Stephen,  and  by  no 
other  person  until  I  came  and  took  possession  of  it  on  Monday  last. 
All  the  windows  are  painted  with  the  arms  of  the  family,  some 
saints,  and  many  dragons ;  with  which,  indeed,  the  ceilings  are 
pretty  well  covered ;  to  say  nothing  of  swords  and  helmets  that 
were  taken  from  the  Danes  by  Alfred  the  Great.  All  this,  however, 
is  nothing  compared  with  what  I  saw  in  a  certain  chamber  that 
must  be  nameless ;  I  thought  I  heard  the  groans  of  an  agonising 
king.  I  lifted  up  a  black  veil,  spotted  with  blood  ;  but  I  dropped  it 
instantly,  and  dare  not  tell  you  what  I  saw.  My  guide  dropped  his 
candle  too,  and  ran  away.  Confess  that  it  requires  a  very  good 
conscience  to  be  able  to  sleep  in  such  company.  I  do  not  think  it 
possible  to  make  my  escape  without  seeing  an  apparition. 

You  may,  if  you  think  fit,  communicate  these  particulars  to 
Mrs.  Turner,  who,  I  presume,  is  no  enemy  to  old  tim.es  and  ancient 
fashions  ;  but  not  to  such  giddy  persons  as  your  two  cousins.  There 
are  many  ways  of  taking  leave.  The  shortest  is  the  best ;  and  so, 
dear  madam,  I  remain  most  abruptly  yours, 

P.  F. 

The  following  glimpse  at  Lis  domestic  interior  about 
this  time  is  given  in  Miss  Berry's  Journal : — 

'  Thursday,  March  31,  1808.— Dined  at  Sir  P.  Francis' 
with  Lord  and  Lady  Keith,  Miss  Elphinstone,  Mr.  Elliot, 
Mr.  Trevor,  &c.  In  the  evening  Miss  Tate  and  Catherine 
Francis  sung  two  or  three  songs  beautifully.' 

The  next  is  to  the  '  veteran '  reformer,  Major  Cart- 
wright,  well  known  in  his  day  for  his  staunch  Eadicalism 
and  personal  eccentricities. 

To  Major  CartwrigU,  at  Enfield. 

St.  James's  Square,  February  10,  1809. 
Sir^ — On  receiving  the  favour  of  your  letter  of  the  7th  instant,  I 
felt  some  inohnation  to  have  entered  into  the  subject  of  it,  and  to 
have  stated  to  you  many  reasons  for  not  accepting  your  invitation. 
On  further  consideration,  I  have  thought  it  most  advisable  to  follow 
my  own  course,  and  leave  it  to  others  to  do  as  they  think  fit.  In 
the  year  1794,  the  people  of  this  country  were  fairly  tried.     The 


86S  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1809 

result  of  ttat  trial  convinced  me  at  least  that  they  ■would  then,  and 
at  all  times,  have  preferred  the  disease  to  the  remedy,  if  a  remedy 
were  attainable.  They  who  say  that  the  House  of  Commons  does 
not  represent  the  nation,  in  my  opinion,  are  mistaken.  If  it  be  true, 
as  undoubtedly  you  think  it,  that  there  are  '  those,  and  amongst  the 
wisest  and  the  best,  who  yet  hope  and  trust  this  measure  may  save 
the  state,'  I  give  them  credit  for  their  virtues  ;  but  he  who  has  not 
the  same  hopes  cannot  reasonably  act  on  the  same  principles.  The 
untutored  Indian,  when  he  found  his  boat  adrift,  lay  down  in  it 
quietly,  and  submitted  to  his  fate. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  &c. 

Philip  Francis. 

The  next  is  witliout  address,  but  apparently  to  Lord 
Thanet. 

February  18,  1809. 
I  owe  you  a  quotation  from  the  classics,  and  this  I  think  will  pay 
you  with  interest  and  delight.  Marshal  Villars,  in  a  letter  to  his 
august  master,  dated  August  12,  1690,  does  executive  justice  to 
the  talents  of  Germany  and  the  genius  of  Austria  in  the  following 
terms  : — '  Les  Allemands  ont  aleur  tete  quatre  generaux  qui  ne  sont 
guere  determines.  Le  plus  jeune  est  aveugle  et  a  plus  de  quatre- 
vingts  ans  ;  je  connois  les  deux  autres.  En  verite,  quand  I'arniee 
seroit  la  meilleure  qui  ait  jamais  ete,  il  n'est  pas  possible  que 
quatre  radoteurs  comme  ceux-la  n'y  mettent  de  la  confusion.'  I 
begin  to  suspect  furiously  that  this  is  the  very  source  from,  which 
some  of  your  favourite  opinions  on  this  subject  have  been  derived. 
As  for  those  immense  objects  detailed  in  one  of  your  last,  in  which 
the  solid  contents  are  equal  at  least  to  the  superficial  measurement, 
supposing  that  such  masses  could  be  weighed  or  measured,  you  live 
too  much  out  of  the  world  to  know  that  these  things  are  coming 
into  fashion.  There  was  a  time  when  youth  and  beauty  could 
attract  vnthout  waiting  for  size  or  maturity.  Nous  avons  change 
tout  cela.  We  have  no  admiration  now  but  for  grand  dimensions 
and  specific  gravity.  Tons  les  hemispheres  que  je  vois  wenacent 
rume ;  ce  sont  autant  d'' empires  en  etat  de  decadence — mole  ruunt 
Slid.  So  now,  I  think  that  subject  is  exhausted,  and  I  shall  call 
another  cause.  In  or  out  of  society,  one  hears  of  nothing  but  the 
proceedings  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and,  indeed,  one  has  nothing 
else  to  read.  At  first  a  stately  silence  prevailed  in  all  the  well- 
disciplined  circles  ;  now  and  then  interrupted  by  exclamations  of 
horror  at  the  profligacy  of  a  kept  mistress,  when  she  wns  caught 
tripping,  as  if  the  character  and  the  qualities  were  incompatible  ; 


1809]  AFFAIRS  OF  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK.  867 

and  as  if  such  transactions  were  very  likely  to  be  discovered  by 
those  who  were  not  privy  to  them,  or  betrayed  by  anybody  but 
parties  and  accomplices.  Unfortunately  the  number  of  .  .  .  persons 
who  are  so  qualified,  viz.  to  discover  and  betray,  happens  not  to  be 
very  inconsiderable.  Then  comes  a  general  prudential  shaking  of 
empty  heads,  at  last  the  plot  begius  to  unravel,  the  facts  speak,  and 
the  dumb  begin  to  talk ;  the  prevarication  of  Sanden,  the  note 
extorted  from  him,  and  Mr.  Perceval's  candour  in  withholding  from 
the  House  the  information  he  had  received  from  Colonel  Hamilton, 
for  more  than  a  week,  from  the  4th  to  the  16th  of  February,  to  which 
it  is  impossible  to  attach  a  suspicion  of  collusion,  as  in  the  interim 
he  had  no  conference  with  the  Duke  of  York,  as  if  the  delay  famished 
no  means  or  opportunity  to  Sanden  to  be  bought  off,  to  destroy  his 
papers,  or  to  run  away.  This  reticence  of  Perceval  I  suppose  is 
quite  unaccountable  ;  but  not  half  so  much  so  as  the  kindness  and 
charity  of  many  others,  in  not  asking  him  a  single  question  on  the 
subject.  Now,  tell  me  fairly  and  honestly,  what  you  think  of  thifi 
part  of  the  business.  If-  you  can  convince  me,  as  I  am  sure  you 
will  if  you  can,  that  his  conduct  has  been  right  and  regular,  and  no 
way  liable  to  suspicion,  you  will  find  me  ready  to  retract  my  errors. 
Enfin,  I  observe  such  a  general  change  of  language  as  convinces 
me  that  wiser  heads  than  mine  begin  to  suspect  that  the  Duke  of 
York  cannot  continue  at  the  head  of  the  army.  I  pray  you  to  be 
cautious  in  talking  of  this  afiair,  even  when  you  mention  it  to  your 
cattle.  As  for  my  lady,  I  have  got  her  on  the  anvil.  What  do  you 
think  of  the  history  of  the  injured  beauty  locked  up  in  a  castle  ? 
What  distracts  the  saints  is  to  see  such  profligacy  among  princes  ! 
As  for  the  conquest  of  Spain,  or  the  final  fate  of  Europe,  or  the  ruin 
of  England,  you  may  give  yourself  no  trouble.  These  things  will 
take  care  of  themselves.  I  see  no  sign  of  dissatisfaction  anywhere, 
much  less  of  apprehension.  They  said  the  patient  was  well,  because 
he  felt  no  pain ;  if  that  be  true,  as  I  hope  it  is.  Lord  Ch — y  is  in  no 
danger.  A  man  may  walk  with  a  wooden  leg,  but  if  a  nation  mor- 
tifies, to  what  part  will  you  first  apply  the  knife  ?  The  vessel 
appears  to  me  to  settle,  and  we  are  going  down  in  it  as  contentedly 
as  so  many  blind  puppies,  and  that,  too,  with  our  eyes  wide  open.  I 
told  you  long  ago,  but  you  would  not  believe  me,  '  That  there  is 
nothing  so  quiet  and  easy  as  the  descent  of  a  falling  body  through 
an  unresisting  medium.'  All  my  wisdom  is  lost  upon  you  since 
writing  these  judicious  remarks.  I  find  that  Mr.  Whitbread  and 
Lord  Henry  Petty  have  loaded  Mr.  Perceval  with  compliments  for 
the  very  conduct,  which  I  thought  deserved  the  censure  of  the 
House.    Their  authority,  of  course,  extinguishes  mine,  but  arguments 


368  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1S09 

are  not  answered  by  authorities.  The  confidence  of  a  foe  is  a  sort 
of  bribe,  which  I  can  in  no  case  accept.  Timeo  Danaos.  I  should 
have  disclaimed  and  protested  against  it.  I  should  have  said, 
'  Carry  your  information  to  the  House  of  Commons.  Your  pre- 
tended confidence  in  me  is  extrajudicial.  I  will  hear  nothing  out 
of  court.     Tou  shall  not  tamper  with  the  jury.' 

In  my  conscience,  I  do  not  suspect  these  two  of  anything  but 
folly.  But  appearances  may  be  equivocal.  Cicero,  seeing  his 
friend  and  his  enemy  very  kind  and  civil  to  one  another,  began  to 
suspect  that  neither  of  them  was  in  earnest.  Nimmin  farniliariter 
exercere  inimicitias  videntiir.  Now  I  hear  that  Perceval's  conduct 
will  be  canvassed  on  Monday.  Of  course  he  will  appeal  to  the 
applaxise  already  given  him.  Folkstone,  you  see,  is  coming  into 
fashion  again.  See  what  it  is  to  go  straightforward  ;  rectum  est  index, 
sui  et  ohliqui.  I  see  but  very  few  whose  actions  will  bear  measuring 
by  that  rule.  Be  so  good  as  not  to  publish  this  letter  immediately 
in  the  Ganterhury  Advertiser. 

Sir  B.  Blomfield  to  Francis. 

Carlton  House,  August  7,  1809. 
My  dear   Sir, — The   Prince   intends   ('  God  veiling ')  to  be  at 
Brighton  on  Thurday,  the  10th,  on  which  day  his  Royal  Highness 
commands  me  to  say  you  will  be  expected  to  dinner. 

The  achievement  of  Walcheren  (except  Flushing)  has  reached  you ; 
it  seems  that  Lord  Chatham,  with  the  advanced  corps,  landed  so  far 
back  as  Sunday  week,  and  after  carrying  a  small  fort  consisting  of 
six  field  pieces,  en  harhette,  as  we  call  it,  early  on  the  Monday,  a 
deputation  was  sent  from  Middleburg  to  his  Lordship,  which  on 
that  day  became  his  head-quarters,  and  before  night  Flushing 
was  complebely  invested ;  Sir  Eyre  Coote's  corps  being  midway 
between  the  two  places.  I  believe  some  little  or  rather  a  show  of 
resistance  was  given  at  landing.  Brigadier- General  Murray  is 
said  to  be  wounded,  and  also  Colonel  Pack.  2,000  men  were  in 
Flushing,  so  I  calculate  its  surrender  must  ere  this  have  taken 
place. 

Always  your  obliged, 

B.  Blomfield. 

The  next  is  only  worth  preserving  as  a  specimen  of 
Francis's  strict  adherence  to  the  orthodox  Whig  doctrine 
of  the  day,  which  regarded  our  successes  in  the  Peninsula 
as  a  series  of  mistakes,  and  Wellington  as  a  brave  bungler. 
There  are  others  in  the  same  tone,  which  I  have  not 


1810]  WELLINGTON  IN  PORTUGAL.  369 

thought  it  necessary  to  add :  transeant  cum  coeteris 
erroribus.  It  is  enough  to  remind  the  reader  that  the 
events  to  which  it  refers  are  those  of  Busaco  and  Torres 
Vedras ! 

To  the  Marquis  of  BownsMre,  at  HiUshorougJi. 

Tunbridge  "Wells,  December  5,  1810. 
Most  noble  Friend  and  dear  Marquis, — Catherine  and  I  arrived 
here  yesterday,  in  order  to  see  some  of  my  posterity  before  I  visit 
my  ancestors.  Having  just  read  the  London  news  of  last  night, 
I  acknowledge  and  confess  it  makes  me  sick  to  hear  of  the 
exorbitant  praises  heaped  on  a  great  general  for  the  following 
achievements  : — • 

1.  He  beat  the  enemy  with  immense  slaugliter  and  enormous  loss,^ 
and  then  ran  away  from  him,  without  drawing  bit,  120  miles,  in 
order  to  shelter  himself  in  an  impregnable  position,  where,  it  seems, 
it  was  always  his  intention  to  give  battle. 

2.  He  ordered  Coimbra  to  be  evacuated,  drove  the  inhabitants 
before  him,  and  from  that  to  Lisbon  laid  the  country  waste,  and 
ruined  it  to  the  utmost  of  his  power,  and  this  he  calls  defending 
Portugal. 

3.  As  soon  as  Massena  overtakes  him,  his  intelligence  from  spies 
and  deserters  is  so  good  that  he  solemnly  affirms  '  that  he  (Massena) 
commands  nothing  but  the  ground  he  stands  on,  and  that  even  there 
he  cannot  stay  above  three  or  four  days  ;  and  that,  if  he  stays  longer, 
he  must  be  starved  outright,  because  be  has  literally  nothing  to  eat ; 
but  the  moment  he  raises  the  siege,  and  attempts  to  move  off,  you 
shall  see  wonders  ! '  Lord  W — n,  with  a  well-fed  army,  and  only 
double  the  number  of  his  enemy  (who  by  that  time  must  be 
famished,  if  not  stone  dead),  will  bravely  march  out  of  his  lines, 
and  demolish  or  take  prisoners  all  that  are  left  of  the  said  French. 

4.  Nevertheless  Massena  has  made  good  his  retreat,  and  taken  a 
position  in  which  he  cannot  be  attacked,  ^  &c. 

Now  I  say  that,  if  all  the  premises  were  true,  the  retreat  of  the 
ten  thousand,  in  point  of  generalship,  would  have  been  a  pitiful 
operation  compared  with  this  of  Massena  and  his  army.  Our  noble 
commander  puts  me  in  mind  of  Hector  of  Troy,  who,  after  a  flight 
of  twelve  or  fifteen  miles,  takes  heart  at  last,  and  pounces  on 
Achilles,  just  as  an  eagle  does  upon  a  hare  ;  a  most  apt  comparison, 
God  knows,  and  quite  in  the  style  and  words  of  Homer  himself,  as 
you  may  see  if  you  will  look  into  the  Iliad. 

^  At  Busaco.  '  At  Santarem. 

VOL.  II.  B    B 


370  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1811 

Having  vented  my  spleen  a  little  on  tliis  subject,  I  proceed  to  my 
ingenious  friend  at  Lambeg,  whom  I  really  envy  ;  but  not  quite  so 
much  for  bis  genius  as  bis  guineas.  It  be  will  spare  me  tbe  latter,  be 
may  keep  tbe  former,  for  bis  ovra  use.  J  never  said  a  word  about 
the  state  of  gold  coin  at  Belfast,  for  a  reason  which  ought  to  prevail 
more  than  it  does  with  some  of  tbe  natives  in  the  vicinity  of 
Lisburn,  viz.  because  I  knew  nothing  of  the  matter.  What  I  did 
say,  and  what  I  adhere  to,  is  that  there  were  no  visible  guineas  in 
England;  and  now  you  may  tell  him  that,  if  he  will  send  his 
guineas  to  London,  and  provided  they  are  of  full  weight,  I  will 
engage  to  put  him  in  a  way  to  sell  every  one  hundred  of  them  for 
121Z.  lis.  6d.  in  bank  paper,  unless  some  material  alteration  has 
taken  place  in  tbe  price  of  bullion  (of  which  I  am  not  informed) 
since  Goldsmith  and  others  gave  their  evidence  before  the 
committee  (vide  p.  57  of  the  Report).  His  Majesty,  I  have  no 
doubt,  will  be  well  enough  on  tbe  I3tb  inst.  to  assure  us  of  bis 
perfect  recovery  within  a  reasonable  time.  As  to  your  hurrying 
from  Ireland,  to  the  prejudice  of  any  business  you  have  to  do  there, 
you  must  be  as  much  wiser  as  you  are  younger  than  I  am,  if  you 
can  discover  a  sufficient  reason  for  doing  so. 

To-morrow  I  proceed  bodily  to  Hothfield,  but  shall  not  stay 
long  enough  there  to  receive  any  further  advices  from  you  but  in 
London. 

On  Monday  I  took  leave  of  her  Ladyship  with  many  tears,  and 
all  my  own  shedding.  Pray  tell  every  fair  dame  you  meet  how 
much  I  am  charmed  with  her  youth,  beauty,  and  accomplishments. 

It  was  not  exactly  the  season  for  fat  deans,  prebends,  and 
canons,  to  muster  in  force  at  the  residence.  But  we  had  company 
enough,  and  positively  prohibited  any  invitation  to  the  natives.  If 
you  return  by  tbe  North,  and  will  fix  the  specific  day,  in  all  the 

current  month  I  feel  myself  capable  of  meeting  you  at .     Who 

can  say  more  ? 

P.  F. 
Lord  Sutchinson  to  Francis. 
(Private.)  London,  August  14,  1811. 

My  dear  Francis, — I  am  quite  ashamed  of  you;  what,  at  your 
time  of  life,  you  are  in  the  dark,  and  confounded  with  tbe  things 
you  bear  and  see !  Do  you  know  so  little  of  a  certain  young  gentleman 
of  forty -nine  years  old,  with  whom  you  have  been  acquainted  for 
near  half  bis  life  ?  Can  it  have  escaped  you  that  the  proclamation' 
is  tbe  act,  and  even  the  composition,  of  the  English  government, 

'  Thn  proclamation  of  the  Irish  Government  denoimcing  the  'Meeting  of 
the  Catholics;  July  30. 


1811]  CATHOLIC  QUESTION.  371 

whioli  lie  must  have  seen  and  approved  of  before  it  went  over  to 
Ireland  ?  Tlie  Protestants  know  it,  and  have  rallied  again  round 
the  standard  of  intolerance  :  the  Catholics  suspect  it,  and  are  in 
despair.  Moira  is  in  town ;  he  is  seen  with  reluctance,  but  not 
listened  to.  I  have  offered  myself  to  the  royal  presence,  but  have 
been  rejected.  I  am  neither  mortified  nor  surprised.  I  have  no 
private  views  ;  and  why  should  I  care  more  for  the  public  than 
another?  The  Prince  of  Wales  was  deeply  committed  to  the 
Catholics,  before  I  ever  had  the  honour  of  seeing  his  face.  Since 
our  acquaintance,  he  has  committed  himself  over  and  over  again. 
I  always  endeavoured  to  dissuade,  but  in  vain.  I  had  early  discovered 
a  close  connection  between  promise  and  retractation.  I  trembled  at 
the  idea  of  trifling  with  the  expectations  of  millions  of  naked  and 
fearless  men,  who  are  too  bold,  too  indifferent  to  life,  to  be  daunted, 
and  too  numerous  to  be  butchered.  For  the  first  time  perhaps  in 
their  history,  the  Irish  Cathohcs  had  become  loyal  and  attached  to 
the  person  of  the  man  who  was  to  be  their  future  sovereign.  They 
not  only  did  not  love  James  II.  but  they  despised  him,  and  to  this 
day  execrate  his  memory :  their  affection  for  the  Prince  might  have 
been  the  bond  of  union  between  them  and  the  empire.  He  will 
now  become  much  more  unpopular  than  the  King,  bis  father,  who 
never  at  least  violated  his  plighted  faith.  From  the  first  day  of  his 
reign  to  the  last,  he  hated  hia  Irish  subjects,  and  avowed  it.  K 
he  wanted  the  justice  of  a  king,  he  at  least  displayed  the  firmness 
of  a  man.  I  hope — but  when  I  express  the  hope,  I  tremble  for  its 
completion — that  the  next  reign  may  not  be  as  intolerant  as  the  last. 
I  will  venture,  however,  one  prediction,  that,  after  our  friend  has 
violated  his  engagements,  and  lost  the  affections  of  the  Catholics, 
everything  which  they  desire  will  be  granted  them,  and  that  will  be 
yielded  to  clamour  and  turbulence  which  was  refused  to  truth, 
justice,  and  reason.  It  will  then  come  too  late.  They  will  have 
forgotten  their  love  to  their  king,  and  will  only  remember  their 
ancient  hereditary  deep-rooted  animosity  to  England.  For  my  part, 
I  cannot  see  the  sense  of  this  unmeaning  contest  with  the  Catholics. 
To  dispute  with  men,  how  they  are  to  do  an  act  which  there  is  no 
doubt  they  can  do  either  in  one  way  or  another,  appears  to  me  to  be 
the  height  of  absurdity.  Alas,  alas  !  it  is  no  proof  of  the  strength 
and  wisdom  of  the  administration,  but  of  the  vacillation  and  ter- 
giversation of  a  greater  personage.  I  much  fear  that  intolerance 
in  Ireland  wiU  take  its  course,  and  will  never  be  stopped  bat  by 
resistance.  The  paper  system  will  be  driven  till  the  real  value  of 
the  bank-note  of  a  pound  will  sink  to  a  shilling,  and  we  shall  fight 
in  the  Peninsula  as  Ions  as  we  have  a  soldier  left.     Such  is  the 

o 

B   B  2 


872  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1812 

prospect  before  us,  and  a  noble  one  it  is.  Nothing,  I  tbink,  is 
likely  to  change  it  but  a  great  public  misfortune,  and  tben  appre- 
hension will  do  the  work  of  reason.  But  the  change  will  then 
come  too  late,  and  he  will  have  justly  lost  the  public  confidence. 
For  myself,  I  never  entertained  sanguine  hopes  from  the  moment 
he  retained  the  present  ministers.  I  am  sure  that  the  persons  to 
whom  they  owe  their  continuance  in  office  always  knew  that  they 
would  retain  sufficient  influence  to  keep  them  there.  I  should  sup- 
pose that  it  will  infallibly  be  the  case,  unless  some  very  untoward 
event  should  take  place  ;  and  then  they  must  get  out  of  the  scrape 
as  well  as  they  can,  for  he  certainly  will  abandon  them.  Lord 
Downshire  has  been  with  me,  and  is  rather  gloomy.  I  beg  my  best 
respects  to  her  Ladyship.  His  Royal  Highness  goes  to  Bognor  on 
Saturday ;  but  I  fancy  it  is  only  a  false  rumour  to  cover  his  march 
into  Warwickshire. 

The  second  Lord  Solland  to  Francis. 

Holland  House,  Novemter  1,  1811. 

Dear  Francis, — I  was  not  less  miserable  than  you  about  your 

papers,  and  they  have  made  me  pass  two  miserable  mornings,  besides 

much  occasional  anxiety — but  I  have  found  them — Ei/pTjKu.     I  have 

them  safe  this  morning,  but  will  deliver  them  to  you.    Surra,  Jmrra  ! 

Y.  Holland. 
[Turn  over.] 

In  my  delight  at  finding  them  I  forgot  to  express  the  more  solid 
and  permanent  delight  I  received  from  reading  them.  One  of  them 
— the  Memoir  of  Burke' — is  one  of  the  most  interesting  things  I 
ever  read,  full  of  sense,  truth,  candour,  and  manliness ;  and  the  other 
of  a  more  temporary  nature,  full  of  sense  and  wisdom. 

From  Thomas  Moore's  correspondence  : — '  The  pantiles 
■were  put  into  an  uproar  last  Tuesday  by  the  arrival 
of  the  Princess  of  Wales  on  a  visit  to  the  Berrys.  She 
brought  Lady  C.  Campbell  and  Mrs.  and  Miss  Eawdon 
with  her,  but  not  a  man  did  she  bring,  or  could  she  get 
here  for  love  or  money,  except  Sir  Philip  Francis  and  old 
Berry,  who,  aged,  liked  the  fun  of  gallanting  her  about, 
and  enjoyed  himself  more  than  the  fair  daughters  did.' 
— Lady  Donegal  to  Moore,  August  28,  1812. 

According  to  Lady  Francis,  when  the  Prince  became 

'  This  memoir  (as  has  been  said)  cannot  be  discovered. 


1812]  MEMORIAL  OF  CLAIMS.  373 

Eegent,  lie  '  desired  Sir  Philip  to  give  in  writing  his 
wishes  and  claims.  A  copy  of  the  document  still  exists' 
(taken  from  one  in  the  handwriting  of  Colonel  Mac- 
Mahon),  'in  which  he  reminds  the  Eegent  of  his  promise, 
and  Mr.  Fox's  acquiescence.'  The  following  is  the  copy, 
in  Lady  Francis's  handwriting,  to  which  her  Ladyship 
refers.  I  give  it  as  I  find  it ;  but  it  appears  to  me  rather 
hke  a  summary,  by  Sir  Philip,  of  what  he  had  intended 
to  lay  before  the  Prince,  than  a  formal  document. 

Memorial  written  hij  the  Prince  Regent's  desire. 

Carlton  House,  March  10,  1812. 

I  was  appointed  by  act  of  Parliament  in  1773  to  a  place  in  tlie 
supreme  government  of  Bengal,  when  there  had  been  no  example  of 
so  high  an  executive  station  given  in  that  form.  My  conduct  in 
the  execution  of  that  trust  received  the  constant  approbation  of  all 
the  constituted  authorities  at  home,  by  whom  it  was  examined: 
viz.  of  Government,  of  various  committees  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, and  especially  of  the  Court  of  Directors.  I  sat  in  Parlia- 
ment for  many  years  at  a  very  heavy  expense,  and  acted  on  the 
same  principles.  On  the  death  of  Lord  Cornwallis,  my  right  or 
claim  to  succeed  him,  though  supported  by  his  Royal  Highness, 
was  superseded  by  the  Coalition  in  1806. 

That  his  Royal  Highness  had  always  designated  me,  and  par- 
ticularly to  Mr.  Fox,  as  the  person  whom  he  meant  to  appoint  to 
the  office  of  governor-general,  and  that  he  had  signified  the  same 
expressly  to  Lord  Moira,  who  heartily  concurred  in  it :  that,  on 
my  decKning  the  government  of  the  Cape,  offered  to  me  with  the 
Order  of  the  Bath  and  the  rank  of  Privy  Councillor,  I  submitted 
to  his  Royal  Highness  a  plan  of  accommodation,  which  he  was 
pleased  to  say  was  very  moderate.  The  only  objection  made  to  it, 
as  far  as  I  know,  was  by  Mr.  Fox,  who  said  there  was  no  place 
vacant ;  to  which  I  said  that  I  accepted  the  honour,  and  was  ready 
to  wait  their  convenience  for  the  place.  And  on  this  footing  the 
contract  with  me  was  agreed  to,  but  never  executed.  That  I  now 
made  '  no  claim  to  place  or  profit,  and  desired  only  a  mark  of  honour 
from  his  Royal  Highness's  own  hand.' 

Endorsed  (Lady  Francis  adds)  by  Sir  Philip,  '  Left  a 
copy  of  this  paper  with  the  Prince  Eegent  by  his  desire.' 


374  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1813 

'  This,'  adds  her  Ladyship  by  way  of  note,  '  is  evidently 
the  story  that  has  been  so  misstated  to  Lord  Brougham. 
We  are  sorry  to  observe  a  proof  that  Lord  Moira 
acted  a  very  double  part  to  Sir  Philip  about  India.' 

To  Mr.  Perry  (of  ihe  '  Chronicle '). 

(Private.)  Brighton,  October  19,  1813. 

Dear  Sir, — In  tlie  midst  of  incessant  bodily  pain,  I  think  myself 
lucky  when  I  find  anything  that  furnishes  me  mth  a  little  relief  or 
diversion.     I  did  so,  and  more  than  I  thought  possible,  in  reading  a 
letter  in  your  paper  of  Friday  last  on  the  subject  of  comedy.    I  may 
say,  as  Longinus  said  of  Moses,  the  author  of  it  is  no  common  man, 
and  traly,  whether  it  be  yourself  or  anybody  else,  I  should  like  to 
know  his  name.     There  are  a  few  words  and  passages,  nevertheless, 
which  I  should  like  to  have  corrected,  because  I  would  not  have 
anything  left  open  to  cavil  in  so  perfect  a  piece.     First,  '  common- 
places,' in  the  plural,  is  not  English ;  the  word  in  the  singular  num- 
ber, I  think,  is  commonly  used  as  an  adjective  or  an  epithet.     The 
observation  that  follows  is  excellent,  viz.  '  That  I  am  always  apt 
to  distrust  these  modest  pretensions  to  plain  understanding.'     An 
air  of  humility  is  very  often  only  a  shelter  for  ignorance,  and  some- 
times a  weapon  of  arrogance.     We  are  overrun  with  affectation  in 
writing.     Even  common  sense  is  affected.     A  plain  country  gentle- 
man is  now  the  established  description  of  an  ass.     He  says.  We 
cannot  expect  to  reconcile  opposite  things.     Certainly  not,  while  they 
are  opposite,  but  we  have  seen  coalitions.     It  is  only  contradictions 
which  cannot  be  reconciled.    He  mistakes  the  fact  about  the  Medeein 
malgre  lui.     It  is  not  a  long  play,  but  a  mere  farce  of  two  acts,  or 
three  at  most.     I  saw  it  at  Paris  about  thirty  years  ago,  when  ir 
Medeein  was  acted  by  Mole,  and  laughed  from  the  beginning  to  the 
end  of  it.     As  to  the  Gomedie  pathetique,  or  Sentimentale,  or  Lar- 
moyante,  I  consign  them  one  and  all  to  the  devil  without  mercy.   Wot 
that  there  may  not  be  a  pathetic  scene  in  a  comedy  as  there  may  be 
in  common  life,  of  which  comedy  is  or  ought  to  be  the  representation. 
Rousseau  has  annihilated  the '  Misanthrope'  of  MoUere  in  his  admirable 
letter  to  D'AIembert,  as  Mrs.  Montague  has  the  '  Cinna '  of  Comeille. 
The  '  Tartuffe,'  as  a  dramatic  composition,   is  a  masterpiece ;  but  I 
think  there  is  not  mirth  and  gaiety  enough  in  it  for  a  comedy. 
Since  the  first  revival  of  JSverij  Man  in  His  Humour,  I  know  of  no 
English  comedy  so  well  acted  or  so  well  received  as  that  was,  I 
mean  with  incessant  laughter.    Le  Mariage  de  Figaro,  though  a  very 
inferior  piece,  was  received  in  the  same  way  at  Paris,  and  acted  fifty 


1813]  CONVERSION  IN  INDIA.  875 

niglits  consecutively,  because,  with,  some  droUeiy  in  the  contrivance 
and  dialogue,  it  was  incomparably  acted.  In  short,  I  have  no 
better  idea  of  a  weeping  comedy  than  of  the  blue  sound  of  a  trumpet. 
Why  not  Harlequin  in  tears,  and  Columbine  in  convulsions  ?  Re- 
member that  Voltaire  and  D'Alembert  repeatedly  afSrra  that  the 
JPrench  theatre  is  a  la  glace.  Their  tragic  heroes  one  and  all  are 
Mros  de  theatre,  not  in  nature.  They  strut,  too,  like  Lewis  XIV., 
who,  instead  of  shoes,  wore  buskins  all  his  life. 

I  shall  now  turn  to  another  subject  of  much  more  importance,  on 
which  I  have  long  had  it  in  m.y  thoughts  to  say  a  few  words  to  you, 
but  have  hitherto  been  prevented  by  severe  and  unremitting  illness. 
Some  experience  and  long  reflection  have  formed  my  opinion  upon 
it,  and  entitle  m.e  to  be  heard,  especially  as  it  is  impossible  that  I 
can  have  any  concern  in  the  question  or  interest  in  the  decision.  I 
entreat  yon  to  consider  well,  and  deliberate  long,  before  you  give 
encouragement  to  the  scheme  lately  adopted  of  sending  missionaries 
to  India  to  convert  the  Hindoos.  Let  them  try  the  Mahometans  if 
they  dare.  Remember  Vellore.  The  possible  mischiefs  which  may 
arise  out  of  it  ought  to  be  obvious  enough  to  make  the  fiercest 
fanatic  shudder,  and  even  the  most  truly  pious  and  best  intentioned 
men  to  hesitate  and  tremble  before  they  act.  I  am.  not  able  at  this 
time  to  go  far  into  the  subject.  But,  if  I  live,  I  will  do  it ;  and  the 
rather  because  I  do  not  now  value  the  terrors  of  this  world,  nor 
care  one  farthing  what  anybody  says  or  thinks  of  me.  For  the 
present  listen  to  the  poor  Brahmin,  when  the  New  Testament  was 
explained  to  him — '  Tour  religion  may  be  very  good  for  you  and 
your  climate,  and  your  Lawgiver  seems  to  have  been  a  wise  man ; 
for  he  says,  Judge  of  the  tree  hy  the  fruits.  To  us  that  fruit  has  been 
bitter  ;  but  you  must  make  a  desert  of  India  before  you  can  plant 
the  tree  in  our  land.'  Our  missionaries,  I  dare  say,  wiU  not  begin 
with,  persecution,  for  lowliness  is  yoimg  religion's  ladder. 

But  then  great  crimes  are  committed  in  India.  Widows  are  burnt, 
children  are  drowned,  and  horrible  excesses  are  permitted  at  Jug- 
gernaut. These  are  offences  against  God  and  nature  and  all  religions, 
and  the  Hindoo  more  than  any  other.  The  first  and  last  are  pro- 
moted by  the  priesthood,  for  ends  of  their  own.  The  second  is  tlie 
result  of  famine  and  despair.  In  the  most  fertile  country  in  the 
world,  and  where  the  natives,  who  eat  nothing  but  rice,  are  moi=i; 
easily  satisfied  in  point  of  food,  you  hear  of  thousands  perpetually 
perishing  by  famine.  I  could  tell  you  why,  and  will  hereafter.  Do 
you  believe  that  any  mother,  in  any  country,  would  murder  her 
child  if  she  had  the  means  of  giving  it  nourishment  ?  But  why  are 
these   crimes  (I  mean  those    which   the    priesthood    encourage) 


376  MEMOIRS  OF  SIE  PHILIP  FEANCIS.  [1813 

suffered  to  go  nnpunislied  ?  Why  are  they  not  prevented  ?  Where 
is  your  civil  government  ?  What  has  it  been  hitherto,  and  why  is  it 
renewed  in  the  person  of  that  imaginary  person,  the  India  Company  ? 
Have  they  no  power  but  to  tax,  to  desolate,  and  destroy  ?  Are 
they  left-handed  the  moment  that  any  good  is  demanded  of  them  ? 
Are  they  paralytic  on  that  side  ?  Do  you  think  that,  if  Mr.  Fox  had 
found  it  to  coincide  with  his  politics  or  his  partialities,  to  have  per- 
mitted me  to  return  to  India  in  1806,  in  the  office  that  was  full  as 
much  my  right  as  it  was  his  to  be  Secretary  of  State,  I  would  not 
have  put  a  stop  to  such  enormities  ?  All  this  is  written  in  a  great 
hurry,  and  intended  for  nothing  but  hints  to  put  you  on  your  guard. 

Nevertheless,  if  you  will  send  missionaries,  and  make  converts, 
begin  with  yourselves.  Make  Christians  of  your  own  people,  if  you 
can.  Though  God  knows  I  am  but  a  sinner,  still  I  believe  I  am 
now  a  better  Christian  than  most  of  the  saints,  at  least  according  to 
the  Gospel. 

So  here  I  shall  conclude  with  one  general  observation,  which, 
while  you  are  raving  about  Christianity,  I  think  it  worth  your  at- 
tention. There  is  not  at  this  day  a  prince  or  power  in  Europe  or 
America,  except  the  Turks,  that  is  not  in  a  state  of  war  and  happily 
employed  in  cutting  one  another's  throats  ;  and  they  are  all  good 
Christians,  full  of  charity  to  their  neighbours,  and  passionately  fond 
of  propagating  their  religion  and  converting  heathens.  The  Church 
of  England,  of  itself,  is  wise  and  quiescent.  Our  bishops,  in 
general,  are  learned  and  prudent  naen.  But  they  are  frightened  by 
the  sectaries,  and  forced  to  go  with  the  tide. 

Tours  very  truly,  that  is,  with  a  just  sense  of  your  abilities  and 
perseverance, 

P.  Feancis. 

Brighton,  November  7,  1813. 
Dear  Lord  Bristol, — When  I  tallied  of  the  possibiHty  of  na.y  visit- 
ing lokworth  in  the  course  of  this  month,  assuredly  I  meant  it.  For 
who  is  not  in  earnest  in  wishing  to  live  in  good  company,  or  where 
is  the  merit  of  intending  to  enjoy  some  share  of  happiness  before 
death  ?  But  I  must  relinquish  this  ambition  as  I  have  done  every 
other.  To  exist  out  of  pain,  if  that  be  attainable,  is  all  that  I  aim  at, 
or  have  any  reason  to  expect  iu  this  world.  ...  In  every  other 
respect,  my  health  is  as  good,  and  my  head  I  think  as  clear,  as  it 
used  to  be.  As  to  the  present  state  of  human  afiairs,  the  Httle 
judgment  I  have  left  must  be  contracted  into  sentences,  which  I 
shall  leave  it  to  your  enlightened  mind  to  develop,  and  to  your 
friend  at  Saxham  as  a  useful  employment  for  the  cud.     He  swallows 


1814]  LETTER  TO  LORD  BRISTOL.  377 

whole  wlaatever  lie  likes,  but  never  mminates.  Secretion  and  di- 
gestion make  no  part  of  liis  intellectual  system.  But  then  lie  can 
argue  with  a  vengeance  ;  confute,  change  sides,  and  still  refute. 
Canst  thou  administer  to  a  mind  diseased  ?  pray  try.  Uxperimentnm 
in  animd  malesand  can  do  him  no  harm.  In  short,  it  is  adversity 
that  demands  resolution,  but  it  is  in  prosperity  that  wisdom  is  most 
wanted.  A  very  dazzling  object  must  be  looked  at  through  green 
spectacles.  Drive  the  French  out  of  Germany,  Holland,  Flanders, 
and  Spain ;  and  shut  them  up,  if  you  can,  within  their  boundary  as  it 
was  limited  by  the  treaty  of  1 763.  As  to  Spain,  if  Spain  were  a 
rational  person,  I  should  say  to  her.  Make  Wellington  your  Idng.  A 
Spaniard  never  can  be  the  choice  of  that  people.  They  all  hate  or 
distrust  one  another  ;  and  their  nobility  does  not  furnish  a  man  fit 
for  the  station,  or  eminent  enough  to  exclude  competition.  Of 
Ferdinand  VII.  you  have  nothing  at  your  disposal  but  his  name, 
which  is  good  for  nothing  else.  No  use  can  be  made  of  such  a 
miserable  boy.  The  House  of  Bourbon  is  burnt  into  the  socket. 
Feed  that  lamp,  however,  until  it  expires  of  itself.  They  are  dead  iu 
law,  and  never  can  revive. 

I  hope  Lady  Bristol  will  sometimes  take  the  trouble  to  remember 
me,  when  I  have  forgotten  my  own  self,  as  ere  long  I  shall  do. 
Will  you  also  express  to  the  Duke  of  Gloucester  my  serious  regret, 
but  in  your  own  terms,  at  my  not  being  able  to  have  the  honour  of 
meeting  his  Royal  Highness  at  Icliworth  this  season  p  And  so 
farewell !  Vime  et  vale,  which,  as  you  are  a  country  gentleman,  may 
be  translated  into  plain  English  for  the  benefit  of  the  reader.  Live 
as  long  as  you  can — but  not  in  pain. 

P.  Francis. 

In  the  end  of  1814  Sir  Philip  Francis  married  his  second 
-wife,  Miss  Emma  Watkins,  daughter  of  a  clergyman  in 
Yorkshire.  Her  father  was  born  at  Cintra,  in  Portugal, 
not  many  years  before  Francis's  visit  to  that  country. 
Shortly  before  this  union,  Francis's  daughter  Catherine, 
who  for  some  years  had  been  her  father's  principal 
domestic  companion,  had  married  Mr.  Cholmondeley ;  and 
this  change  in  his  estabhshment  probably  furnished  the 
immediate  reason  for  the  step.  For  he  and  the  lady  had 
already  been  acquainted  with  each  other,  and  on  a  footing 
of  friendship,  for  a  long  time.  Lady  Francis  (as  she  frankly 


378  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1814 

tells  US  in  her  reminiscences)  was  born  exactly  ten  years 
after  tlie  last  Junius  letter  appeared  ;  according  to  which 
piece  of  chronology  she  must  have  been  thirty-two  at 
the  date  of  her  marriage  with  the  widower  of  seventy- 
five.  Her  father  was  connected  with  the  Archbishop  of 
York  (Drummond),  from  whom  he  obtained  preferment. 
The  Archbishop  was  a  brother  of  Francis's  early  patron, 
Lord  Kinnoul.  She  first  met  her  future  husband,  she 
says,  at  Lady  Boyne's,  at  Tunbridge  Wells,  in  1806. 
They  had  corresponded  some  years  before  the  marriage ; 
and  Francis,  with  an  old  man's  playful  afiection,  had 
invented  for  communication  with  his  young  and  lively 
friend  a  kind  of '  little  language,'  like  that  in  which  Swift 
discoursed  from  London  with  his  Stella.  Lady  Francis 
preserved  many  of  these  letters,  generally  full  of  now 
forgotten  gossip,  amusingly  distorted  and  exaggerated. 
Francis  was  throughout  life  what  the  Greeks  termed 
dvOpoivoXoyo?,  meaning  thereby,  not  merely  a  lover 
of  personal  anecdotes,  but  one  whose  chief  topics  of 
interest  were  derived  from  his  observation  of  the 
characters  and  conduct  of  living  men.  This  peculiarity 
is  as  evident  in  the  early  compositions  of  Junius  as  in  the 
light  correspondence  of  Sir  Philip's  last  days.  The  editor 
will  only  venture  on  printing  one  or  two,  as  specimens, 
in  order  to  complete,  even  in  unimportant  particulars, 
the  portraiture  of  character  which  he  is  endeavouring 
to  delineate.  They  are  without  date,  but  written,  ap- 
parently, in  the  first  period  of  the  Peninsular  war. 

St.  James's  Square,  Saturday. 
Infanta  carissima, — Mille  remerciments  pour  la  jolie  lettre  du  27. 
Savez-vous  que  vous  etes  non-seulement  la  personne  du  monde  la 
pluB  aimable,  mais  la  plus  incredule  ?  Je  me  tue  a  vous  dire  que  voua 
Stes  belle,  gracieuse,  et  spirituelle,  bien  au-dela  de  toutes  vos  rivalea 
du  sexe  feminin  ;  que  vous  gagnez  a  etre  vae  et  connue,  et  que,  a  tout 
prendre,  vous  etes  un  personage  unique  ;  tout  cela  ne  sert  de  rien, 
vous  n'en  croyez  pas  un  mot.    Mais  en  revancbe,  vous  croyez  bonne- 


1814]  LETTER  TO  MISS  WATKINS.  379 

ment  tout  ce  qui  est  incroyable ;  que  la  politique,  par  example,  ou 
rambition  etait  capable  de  remporter  sur  vous  !  Allez-vous  pro- 
mener,  mademoiselle,  avec  vos  belles  crojances.  Tour  faith  will  not 
make  you  whole.  So  I  dined  and  slept  last  night  at  Holland  House  ; 
and  those  noble  persons  are  going  out  of  hand  to  Gallicia,  in  order 
to  see  the  scene  of  action,  and  pass  the  winter  in  Spain  !  Also  as 
you  are  a  politician  of  the  first  water,  I  may  tell  you  in  confidence 
that  the  Duke  of  York  is  going  to  take  the  command  of  the  army  in 
Portugal.  So  I  suspect  at  least ;  because  Lord  Hutchinson  is  sent 
for  from  Ireland,  which  can  have  no  motive  but  to  attend  the  Duke. 
Also  Home  Tooke,  that  you  make  such  a  route  about,  is  unquestion- 
ably dying,  if  not  dead,  and  I  have  no  more  news  ;  and  if  you  had 
told  me  you  were  all  going  to  stay  two  days  longer  at  Matlock,  why, 
you  know  very  well  that  others  would  have  stayed  too,  only  to  keep 
you  company.  Of  all  things  I  hate  to  be  left  in  a  place  where  I  have 
been  happy,  and  I  thought  you  capable  of  that  barbarous  deed  if  I 
had  not  secured  the  first  post  horses  ;  but  you  need  not  have  stayed 
two  whole  days  neither,  except  to  show  the  world  that  you  did  not 
care  a  pin  for  one,  not  you.  Marry  cumup  !  Tou  would  not  demean 
yourself  in  that  guise  after  all  the  hearts  you  had  broken,  &c.  As 
we  were  known  to  be  of  one  firm,  I  hope  you  paid  all  debts  we  might 
leave,  for  the  credit  of  the  house.  The  poetical  efiusion  of  the  said 
C.  0.  shall  be  forwarded  to  Miss  Catherine  by  this  post,  who  is  at 
Waverley  Abbey,  near  Parnham  ;  from  whence  she  assured  me  she 
would  write  a  fine  letter  to  our  amiable  ...  to  thank  her  for  all  her 
benevolence,  courtesy,  and  kindness,  &c.  If  not  yet  arrived,  be  sure 
she  is  waiting  for  a  frank.  C'est  un  bien  petit  tribut  de  reconnois- 
sance  pour  tant  de  bonte. 

I  am  not  sure  whether  I  am  going  to  Margate  to  meet  Lord  P. 
or  Brighton  with  a  greater  personage  in  the  course  of  next  week  ; 
but  I  am  quite  sure  I  will  not  stay  in  this  deserted  village.  Encore 
un  jour  et  me  voila  mort  de  tristesse,  d' ennui,  et  de  regret.  By 
Tuesday's  post  my  destination  shall  be  cleared  up  to  those  whom  it 
may  concern.  There  are  two  b's  in  robber,  but  not  in  robin  ;  but 
perhaps  you  meant  Boiling  Mood.  Why,  baby,  or  babby,  do  you 
spell  in  this  manner  on  purpose  to  put  your  grandsire  out  of  patience 
with  you  ?  Don't  pretend  to  say  you  spell  by  the  ear,  as  I  do,  for  I 
won't  believe  a  word  of  it.  May  I  perish  if  I  can  find  another  word 
to  throw  at  an  angel.  What  shall  I  say  for  you  to  Madame  0.  ? 
Answer  me  that ;  but  not  till  you  hear  again  .  .  . 

The  next  is  apparently  from  Hothfield.     If  so,   it  is 
scarcely  necessary  to  add  that  the  character   of  Lady 


380  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1814 

Thanet  must  evidently  be  taken  as  a  piece  of  pleasantry.^ 
One  of  Francis's  oddities  was  his  constant  application  of 
the  epithet  '  dragon,'  particularly  to  the  fair  sex,  and 
often  by  way  of  comphment.  One  of  the  family  anecdotes 
respecting  him  recounts  how,  on  his  arrival  from  India, 
he  startled  the  demure  schoolmistress  with  whom  two 
of  his  daughters  were  then  placed,  by  abruptly  addressing 
them  as  '  young  dragons.' 

Chiteau,  dimanche. 
Carissima  Bambina, — Vos  deux  jolies  lettres  out  fait  les  delices 
de  tous  ceux  qui  les  out  lues  ;  le  nombre  n'en  est  pas  grand, 
vos  lectures  se  bornent  a  deux  yeux  seulement  qui  en  general  ne 
sent  pas  trop  clairvoyants,  au  moins  pour  vos  defauts,  si  vous  en 
avez.  Je  vous  baise  les  pieds  aussi  bien  que  les  belles  mains  pour 
vous  marquer  ma  reconnaissance.  Tout  le  monde  me  dit  que  sans 
doute  quelqu'une  en  cacbette  m.'a  tourne  la  tete,  et  je  commence 
a  croire  que  peut-etre  ils  ont  raison.  Ce  n'est  pas  la  premiere  fois 
qu'un  joli  jeune  homme,  comme  moi  par  exemple,  s'est  laisse  prendre 
par  une  fiere  drogue  de  soixante-et-buit  ans  comme  vous,  mademoi- 
selle !  Qui  est-ce  qui  I'aurait  cru  ?  Voila  un  miracle  de  votre  fa^ou. 
Apres  ce  que  vous  venez  de  faire,  je  crois  qu'il  ne  tient  qu'a  vous 
de  ressusciter  les  morts  et  puis  de  les  rendre  immortals.  The  life  I 
lead  even  here  is  quite  to  my  mind,  though  I  have  but  two  people 
to  lead  it  with  ;  a  Dieu  il  plait  avec  le  temps  on  y  en  aurait  une  de  plus. 
The  Earl  is  the  very  best  company,  as  long  as  his  mind  and  temper 
are  under  his  own  government.  My  lady  is  a  perfect  dragon  born 
and  bred,  and  I  might  as  well  attempt  to  break  her  neck  as  to  break 
her  heart,  which  she  accuses  me  of  wishing  to  do  ;  however,  I  think 
I  have  got  her  down  at  last — Veni  vkli  vici  ;  and  if  I  let  her  get  up 
again,  all  my  victories  over  her  would  be  thrown  away.  You  must 
know  she  pretends  to  be  very  careful  of  the  letters,  and  keeps  the 
key  of  the  post  bag  herself  As  soon  as  she  gets  it,  she  locks  herself 
up,  and  opens  all  the  letters,  particularly  mine,  to  know  what  I  say 
of  her.  For  her  comfort,  however,  she  meets  with  nothing  but 
abuse,  with  which  she  reproaches  me  when  she  forgets  how  she 
came  by  the  knowledge  of  it.  Though  she  reads  incessantly,  she 
retains  nothing,  having  no  more  brains  than  a  sparrow,  with  gall 
enough  for  an  ostrich.     I  write  all  this  con  amore,  because  I  know 


'  Lady  Thanet  was  allied  by  close  friendahip  to  Fi'ancis.     She  died  only 
two  months  after  him  (February,  1815), 


1814]  LETTER  TO  MISS  WATKINS.  381 

not  a  word  of  it  will  be  lost  upon  her.  Now  I  must  give  you  our 
history  for  want  of  a  better.  This  morning  has  brought  back 
summer,  but  since  Tuesday,  when  I  arrived  in  a  hurricane  (my 
lady  says  I  brought  it  in  a  bag,  like  Ulysses,  and  would  have  added — ■ 

That  day  a  child  might  understand 
The  De'il  had  business  on  his  hand, 

Only,  poor  thing,  she  is  not  apt  with  the  classics,  and  comparisons 
are  odious,  and  she  would  not  care  to  offend  a  person  who  might  do 
her  a  good  turn  some  time  or  other),  we  have  had  such  a  deluge 
as  nobody  ever  saw  since  the  days  of  Noah ;  insomuch  that  Lord 

began  to  cut  down  trees  to  build  an  ark  for  his  own  use,  as  I 

declared  frankly  I  would  not  save  my  life  in  the  same  vessel  with 
that  aimable  et  douce  crache-feu  qu'il  appelle  son  tendron,  sa 
mignonne,  etc.,  en  la  souhaitant  a  tous  les  diables  ensemble.  So  I 
rise  at  eight,  walk  an  hour,  if  it  be  possible,  en  revant  aux  promenades 
et  aux  doux  et  spirituels  entretiens  matineux  de  M.  Then  to  a 
delicious  breakfast,  where  he  and  I  enjoy  ourselves  without  molesta- 
tion from  the  common  enemy,  three  newspapers  every  morning  ;  read 
or  write  till  two,  ride  till  four,  dine  at  five,  tea  at  eight,  then  four 
games  at  picquet  and  to  bed  before  twelve.  The  historical  fact  is  that 
the  climate  of  this  place  agrees  with  me  marvellously ;  our  innocent 
hours  and  customs  go  for  something  after  the  hurley  burley  of  the 
season.  My  lord's  library  is  a  captivating  place,  not  only  as  con- 
taining all  the  wisdom  and  folly  that  ever  saw  the  light,  but  as  a 
pretty  secure  refuge  in  stormy  weather,  and  if  I  had  but  one  com- 
panion to  my  mind .     My  love  and  duty  to  Mrs.  • ,  whom  I 

sincerely  love  and  honour  as  much  as  you  do,  and  invent  something 

amiable  for  me  to and and and are  there  any 

more  of  them  ?  Do  pray  write  to  me  directly,  to  your  own  most 
faithful  friend,  and  tell  me  all  the  fine  projects  with  which  your 
ingenious  head  is  teeming  at  this  moment.  I  pray  you  to  write 
instantly,  constantly,  immediately,  incessantly,  and  every  other 
adverb  that  ends  in  ly,  but  not  in  nly.  "Would  you  advise  me  to 
visit  Penelope  ?  Parlez  done,  petite,  et  dites-moi  avec  la  demiere 
exactitude  comme  vous  passez  les  jours  dans  les  hautes  latitudes. 
Je  ne  vous  ferai  grace  d'une  seule  sensation,  quand  meme  elle  ne 
serait  qu'au  bout  des  doigts. 

I  shall  go  to  town  on  Saturday  for  a  day  or  two,  and  most  probably 
write  again  from  thence.  En  attendant,  il  vous  est  libre,  et  permis, 
de  remplir  ce  qui  reste  de  cette  feuille,  et  de  la  renvoyer  pour  la 
signature. 


382  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  PRANCIS.  [1814 

The  news  of  the  marriage  was  thus  affectionately  ac- 
knowledged by  his  daughter  Catherine  and  her  husband : — 

Timbridge  Wells,  December  11,  1814. 
My  dear  Sir, — Believe  me  I  cannot  hear  of  the  event  which  your 
letter  communicates  without  feeling  the  most  earnest  and  most 
affectionate  interest  in  it.  Tour  happiness  must,  as  long  as  I  live, 
make  an  essential  part  of  miue.  We — ^you  will  readily  understand 
that,  when  I  say  we,  I  mean  Mr.  Cholmondeley  and  myself — are 
anxious  to  come  to  London  as  soon  as  you  will  like  to  see  us,  that 
we  may  both  in  person  offer  our  congratulations  to  yourself,  and  to 
her  whom  you  gaily  call  my  stepmother,  but  who,  I  trust,  will  always 
find  in  me  a  dutiful  daughter-in-law.  I  will  not  apologise  for  the 
shortness  of  this  letter  to  you,  who  were  never  fond  of  long  ones, 
and  who  want  no  assurance  of  my  being  your  truly 

affectionate  daughter, 

Catheeine  Cholmondeley. 

May  you,  my  dear  sir,  be  very  long  as  happy  as  you  have  made 
me.  G.  J.  C. 

In  Lady  Francis  her  husband  found  not  only  a 
very  attached  companion,  but  one  of  the  most  un- 
compromising of  all  possible  admirers.  She  devoted 
herself,  for  many  years  after  his  death,  to  the  task 
of  collecting  his  papers  and  recounting  his  life.  But 
she  never  succeeded  in  accomplishing  these  objects. 
Nor  (independently  of  impediments,  not  necessary  to 
dwell  on  here,  which  arose  out  of  family  circumstances) 
was  it  possible  that  she  could  accomplish  them.  It  has 
been  already  suggested  in  the  preface  that,  while  her  know- 
ledge of  Francis's  real  life  was  confined  to  such  details  as 
he  thought  proper  to  entrust  her  with,  her  own  deficiency 
in  '  concentrativeness,'  her  want  of  arrangement,  her 
ignorance  of  such  a  world  as  he  had  really  lived  in,  and 
a  credulity  arising  out  of  that  imperfect  knowledge, 
render  her  voluminous  '  Eeminiscences  '  very  imperfectly 
trustworthy ;  and  that  further  acquaintance  with  them 
serves  only  to  dissipate  the  anticipations  which  were  at 


1814]  LADY   FEANOIS  AND  DUBOIS.  383 

first  formed  when  portions  of  them  were  communi- 
cated to  the  pubhc.  The  most  remarkable,  or  at  least 
the  most  generally  interesting,  of  these,  related  to  the 
'Junius'  secret,  and  its  partial  communication  to  her- 
self. They  are  to  be  found  in  a  well-known  letter, 
addressed  by  her  on  March  23,  1846,  to  Edward  Dubois, 
an  intimate  of  Francis  in  his  later  years,  and  who  had 
occasionally   acted   as  his   friendly   amanuensis.^      This 

^  This  gentleman  was  engaged  for  many  years  in  writing  for  tlie  London 
press,  and  was  one  of  Perry's  distinguished  staff  on  the  Chronicle.  He  was 
an  especial  friend,  and  protege,  of  Tom  Hill,  who  is  best  known  to  the 
present  generation  through  the  notices  of  him  by  Theodore  Hook.  '  Dubois' 
articles'  (says  a  MS.  notice  of  him  among  Mr.  Parkes's  papers,  'were  of 
various  kinds,  but  they  chiefly  consisted  of  epigrams,  impromptus,  and 
satirical  poetry,  each  piece  (or  at  least  most  of  them)  being  distinguished 
by  a  Greek  quotation,  at  its  head.  He  seemed  most  at  home  in  satire,  and 
much  of  it  was  intermingled  with  his  conversation  ;  be  might  be  said  indeed 
to  have  a  sarcastic  cast  of  countenance,  though  by  no  means  an  ill-natured 
one ;  he  was  in  truth  good-tempered  and  amiable  in  private  life.' 

Dubois  was  bred  to  the  bar,  and  obtained  the  office  of  deputy  clerk  of  the 
Middlesex  County  Court,  or  '  Court  of  Conscience.'  Many  stories  are  related 
of  his  wit  and  oddity,  and  tendency  to  mystification.  He  once  lost,  through 
some  change  of  ownership,  his  post  as  editor  of  a  magazine.  '  His  ai-tieles  ' 
says  the  same  notice,  '  had  contributed  much  to  its  success,  and  not  feeling  at 
all  satisfied  with  the  conduct  which  led  to  the  depriving  him  of  its  manage- 
ment, he  resorted  to  a  whimsical  mode  of  revenge.  He  wrote,  anonymously, 
a  very  grave  and  serious  article  about  the  customs  and  practices  of  the  ancient 
Jews,  stating,  amongst  other  things,  that  they  plmighed  by  moonlight.  The 
editor  who  succeeded  him  not  suspecting  any  hoax,  and  thinking  the  article 
one  of  curious  research,  without  any  hesitation  inserted  it.  Dubois  then 
pounced  upon  him  in  one  of  the  daily  journals,  and  proving  (as  of  course  he 
could  easily  do)  that  the  article  was  altogether  a  fabrication,  he  contended, 
that  it  was  so  absurd  upon  the  face  of  it  that  the  editor,  in  giving  it  in- 
sertion, showed  his  utter  disqualification  for  the  office  which  he  had  assumed. 
This  was  rather  a  cruel  joke.  The  editor  (his  name  not  known  or  forgotten) 
felt  very  sore,  as  might  of  course  be  expected  ;  he  defended  himself  in  one 
of  the  public  journals  as  well  as  he  could,  but  did  not  know  (at  least  for  a 
time)  the  real  author  of  the  hoax,  as  Dubois  still  wore  an  anonymous  mask.' 

Dubois  was  undoubtedly  much  connected  with  Sir  P.  Francis  in  the  last 
period  of  the  latter's  life.  Some  of  the  letters  printed  in  this  chapter  are 
in  his  handwriting.  According  to  his  own  account  (see  note  to  Vol.  L  Ch. 
Vin.),  be  was  to  have  accompanied  Sir  Philip  in  1807,  if  his  contingent  ap- 
pointment to  the  governorship  of  Buenos  Ayres  had  taken  efiect.     He  inserted 


384  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1814 

letter  was  communicated  to  Lord  Campbell  by  Mr.  Dubois, 
and  published  by  his  Lordship,  in  his  '  Lives  of  the 
Chancellors,'  vol.  vi.  p.  344.  It  will  also  be  found  in 
Bohn's  'Junius,'  vol.  i.  p.  Ixxii.  Assuming  that  my  readers 
are    acquainted    with   this   document,   I    will  proceed, 

in  the  Monthly  Mirror,  wtich  he  conducted  in  1810  and  1811,  articlea  con- 
cerning, and  some  apparently  contributed  by,  Francis.  And  be  wrote  for  the 
Morning  Chronicle  the  biographical  notice  which  appeared  on  the  death  of 
the  latter  (Dec.  28,  1818).  He  seems  further  to  have  contemplated  for  some 
years  (in  connection  with  Lady  Francis)  a  more  detailed  biography.  I  iind 
the  following  additional  particulars  respecting  him  in  the  MS.  above  referred 
to : — '  Dubois  was  also  connected  with  various  publications,  especially  one  di- 
rected against  a  Tour  in  Ireland  (by  Sir  John  Carr).  He  was  also,  there  is 
no  doubt,  the  author  of  the  work  written  for  the  purpose  of  proving  that  Sir 
Philip  Francis,  Q.O.B.,  was  the  author  of  "Junius."  He  was  known  to  be 
upon  terms  of  intimacy  with  Sir  Philip,  and  this  was  the  reason  that  he 
publicly  denied  being  the  author  of  the  work  in  question,  because  Sir  Philip 
did  not  wish  it  to  be  supposed  that  the  publication  was  at  all  directed  or 
influenced  by  himself.  But  it  is  perfectly  well  known  that  Dubois  was 
employed  by  Sir  Philip,  and  bad  access  to  all  the  papers  and  documents  of 
the  latter  for  the  express  purpose  of  putting  forth  the  publication  alluded  to. 
Sir  Philip  Francis  had  cogent  reasons  for  not  wishing  to  be  directly  known, 
in  his  lifetime ;  as  the  author  of  "  Junius;"  but  he  contrived,  through  the  agency 
of  Dubois,  that  the  fact  should  be  proved  by  every  testimony  short  of  direct 
evidence ;  and  it  was  only  when  the  agency  of  Dubois  traced  the  publication 
to  Sir  Philip  Francis  himself  that  Dubois  denied  it,  and  said  the  author  was 
Taylor  the  bookseller,  who  published  it,  and  who  undertook  to  father  it 
altogether.  Dubois,  however,  was  certainly  the  author  of  the  publication, 
the  materials  for  which  he  collected  from  Sir  Philip's  own  stores,  and  as 
certainly  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  the  author  of  "  Junius."  ' 

I  mention  this  anecdote,  however,  only  to  express  my  own  disbelief  in  it. 
'  Junius  Identified  '  appeared,  as  is  well  known,  without  name  of  author,  as 
published  by  '  Taylor  and  Hessey,'  and  is  only  attributed  by  public  fame  to 
Mr.  John  Taylor.  But  that  gentleman  corresponded  much  with  Mr.  Parkes 
in  later  years,  as  he  did  also  with  some  literary  newspapers  ;  and  his  interest 
in  the  subj  ect,  and  knowledge  of  it,  leave  me  little  doubt  that  he  was  the  real 
author  of  the  work  in  question.     Dubois  was  a  '  mystifier '  by  profession. 

I  may  nevertheless  add  for  my  own  part  that,  with  all  my  admiration  of 
the  singular  ability  displayed  in  '  Junius  Identified,'  it  has  always  conveyed 
to  me  the  impression,  not  that  the  author  convinced  himself  by  the  process 
of  inductive  argument  which  he  recommends  to  others,  but  that,  having  an 
inkling  of  the  truth  from  some  independent  quarter,  he  was  thence  led  to  con- 
struct his  chain  of  proof  in  support  of  it.  Mr.  Taylor  died  in  1864,  at  the  age 
of  eighty-one. 


1814]         CONDUCT  AS  TO  THE  'JUNIUS'  SECRET.  385 

without  comment  of  my  own,  to  lay  before  them  a 
variety  of  extracts  from  Lady  Francis's  papers  on  this 
particular  subject,  and  at  the  same  time  (as  much 
intermingled  with  it)  on  various  incidents  and  peculiarities 
of  her  husband's  latest  years. 

It  may  only  be  advisable,  by  way  of  introduction,  to 
remind  the  reader  of  the  warning  already  given  against 
too  unhesitating  confidence  in  anecdotes  which  he  will 
sometimes  find  improbable  and  even  inconsistent. 

In  point  of  fact,  it  may  be  said  that  after  the  disappear- 
ance from  the  stage  of  the  principal  actors  of  the  'Junius' 
period,  there  was  a  lull  in  public  curiosity  as  to  the 
authorship  of  the  letters.  For  several  years  it  was 
discussed  with  comparative  infrequency.  But  in  another 
generation,  the  immediate  interest  of  the  secret  having 
ceased,  what  may  be  termed  the  secondary,  or  antiquarian, 
interest  began  ;  and  we  all  know  what  hold  this  stimulat- 
ing riddle  has  had  on  the  popular  imagination.  But 
John  Taylor,  the  publisher — first  by  his  pamphlet  of  1812, 
in  which  he  sought  to  prove  the  joint  authorship  of  Dr. 
Francis  and  his  son,  next  by  his  complete  and  very 
remarkable  work,  '  Junius  Identified,'  which  appeared 
two  years  later,  and  in  which  it  is  attributed  on  strong 
evidence  to  Sir  Philip  alone — contributed  very  greatly  to 
rouse  that  interest.  All  eyes  were  fixed  on  Sir  Philip, 
watching  his  demeanour  ;  and  all  kinds  of  anecdotes 
were  circulated  respecting  his  half  avowals  or  angry 
denials.  It  was  just  at  this  period  that  his  marriage 
with  Miss  Watkins  took  place ;  and  it  may  be  that  her 
impressions  respecting  the  severity  with  which  the  burden 
of  the  secret  weighed  on  her  husband  through  Hfe  are 
mainly  derived  from  her  observation  of  him  during  only 
two  or  three  critical  years.  It  is  not  very  easy  to  ascertain 
what  she  wishes  to  be  believed  as  to  the  degree  of  her 

VOL.  II.  c  c 


386  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  THILIP  FRANCIS.  [1816 

own  acquaintance  with  the  secret.  It  has  been  often 
repeated  how  he  made  her  a  wedding  present  of  '  Junius,' 
with  the  recommendation  to  keep  it  private  and  study  it 
attentively.  Such  pregnant  hints  as  this  he  undoubtedly 
now  and  then  gave  her.  But  it  certainly  does  not  appear 
that  he  ever  made  direct  confession,  even  to  herself. 

The  scattered  extracts  which  follow  are  from  her 
various  memoranda ;  some  apparently  intended  for 
publication ;  others  of  a  miscellaneous  kind  : — 

'  So  much  has  been  said  upon  the  long-contested 
subject  of  "Junius,"  that  nothing  seems  wanting  to  the 
external  proof,  and  all  that  now  was  required  to  settle  the 
contest  for  ever  was  for  a  man  of  Sir  Philip's  known  honour 
to  confess  it,  or  to  betray  himself  in  such  a  way  that  it 
should  be  equivalent  to  confession ;  as  it  was  scarcely 
possible,  when  the  subject  was  brought  so  forward  as  the 
book  (Junius  Identified)  had  done  about  two  years  before 
his  death,  that  he  should,  in  the  confidence  of  intimacy, 
never  have  made  any  declaration  either  one  way  or  the 
other.  His  conduct  under  the  circumstances  in  which 
the  publication  of  that  book  placed  him  shall  therefore  be 
the  subject  of  my  enquiry  .  .  .  Had  he  ever  had 
sufficient  reliance  on  the  discretion  of  any  one  person 
who  was  near  his  heart  to  think  the  secret  would  be  as 
safe  in  his  bosom  as  his  own,  I  do  not  see  why  he  should 
not  have  given  himself  the  pleasure  of  unburdening  his 
mind  .  .  .  But,  it  may  be  said,  why  should  Sir  Philip 
wish  the  secret  to  be  preserved  after  his  death?  The 
reasons  for  it  were  many,  and  in  his  opinion  infinitely 
overvalued  the  pleasure  of  thinking  it  would  be  known 
when  he  was  no  more.  He  said  that  so  long  as  the 
author  could  not  be  certainly  ascertained  the  work  would 
preserve  a  greater  interest,  would  be  studied  and  re- 
studied  to  assist  the  investigation  of  the  secret,  and  that 


1816]  CONDUCT  AS  TO  THE  'JUNIUS'  SECRET.  S87 

the  principles  would  sink  deep  in  the  minds  of  the  public, 
whilst  they  were  searching  it  to  gratify  curiosity  or  to 
support  opinion.  He  knew  the  circumstances  attending 
its  publication  had  added  greatly  to  its  popularity  and 
circulation.  It  was,  as  it  were,  public  property.  Every 
man  of  literature  felt  an  interest  in  it,  from  having  some 
system  of  his  own  in  which  his  penetration  might  be 
shown  in  discovering  the  mysterious  writer.  He  said  if 
it  was  once  decidedly  fixed,  that  interest  would  cease, 
and  the  work  would  be  laid  on  the  shelf  with  other 
writers  of  equal  merit  .  .  .  He  considered  the  secret  the 
life  of  the  work,  the  vivifying  principle.  He  had  other 
powerful  motives.  Too  many  people  of  high  rank  had 
fallen  under  the  two-edged  sword  of  "Junius  "  to  whom  or 
to  their  descendants  Mr.  Francis  felt  in  after  times  deeply 
indebted,  and  sometimes  he  was  aware  that  he  had  been 
unjust,  and  had  taken  too  severe  a  revenge  for  trifling  or 
fancied  injuries.  To  so  quick  a  sense  of  moral  justice  as 
he  had,  this  sensation  was  intolerable,  and  I  have  seen  an 
agony  and  irritability  attend  the  idea  of  its  being  fixed 
upon  him  that  must  have  had  its  source  Irom  wounded 
conscience,  and  the  dread  of  the  world's  being  able  to 
accuse  him  of  that  most  horrible  of  all  vices,  ingratitude. 
He  also  thought  it  possible  that  the  offences  of  the  father 
might,  in  a  certain  quarter,  be  visited  upon  the  children. 
He  was  certainly  extremely  alarmed  when  he  heard 
of  the  work  called  "Junius  Identified,"  and  refused  for 
many  months  to  read  it,  lest  he  should  find  something 
that  might  necessitate  him  to  make  some  declaration,  and 
he  detested  the  falsehood  he  might  be  drawn  into,  though 
to  reconcile  himself  with  himself  he  used  often  to  say  that 
no  man  was  obliged  to  criminate  himself  in  a  court 
of  justice  .  .  .  When  at  length  he  was  convinced  that 
the  work  contained  nothing  that  would  irritate  his  mind 

c  c  2 


888  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1816 

or  drive  him  out  of  the  plan  he  had  adopted  upon  deep 
consideration,  he  was  persuaded  to  read  it ;  but  being  at 
that  time  in  the  house  of  a  friend  in  the  north,  he  did  not 
venture  to  expose  the  emotions  which  the  perusal  might 
occasion  to  any  observer,  and  shut  himself  up  in  his  own 
room  for  that  purpose.  But  it  was  evident  upon  his 
return  to  the  family  that  he  had  been  greatly  agitated  ; 
past  scenes,  of  which  a  long  course  of  years  had  deadened 
the  remembrance,  had  probably  been  recalled  to  his 
mind,  and  aU  the  feehngs  and  anxieties  of  the  time  long 
laid  to  rest  had  started  up  like  spirits  from  their  silent 
graves  and  passed  before  him  :  his  cheeks  burned,  and 
his  eye  betrayed  what  was  passing  within  him  ...  He 
was  undoubtedly  reheved  by  finding  that  the  proofs  were 
not  more  undeniably  conclusive,  and  he  said  soon 
afterwards  to  a  confidential  friend  that  he  could  have 
put  the  writer  upon  a  track  which  would  have  fixed  it, 
and  that  he  was  very  glad  to  find  that  he  had  missed  it. 
But  whether  this  was  a  false  light,  or  whether  he  alluded 
to  himself  or  another,  it  was  at  least  owning  that  he 
knew  who  was  "Junius."  The  person  to  whom  he  spoke 
never  chose  to  press  him  upon  the  subject,  knowing  that 
he  would  not  allow  himself  to  be  questioned  ...  He 
had  indeed  such  a  horror  of  being  questioned  that  one 
day,  in  a  party,  when  the  conversation  had  been  upon 
this  subject,  a  gentleman  who  was  going  to  make  some 
enquiry  of  a  different  nature,  and  prefaced  it  with  "  Sir 
Philip,  give  me  leave  to  ask  one  question,"  was  interrupted 
by  the  startling  words,  in  his  most  peremptory  manner, 
"At  your  peril,  sir! "  At  his  return  to  town,  finding  many 
of  his  political  acquaintances  either  hinted  at,  or  ralhed 
him  upon,  his  secrecy,  he  withdrew  his  name  from 
Brookes's  Club,  of  which  he  had  been  a  member  so  many 
years  ;  and  though  he  was  much  entreated  to  change  his 


1816]        CONDUCT  AS  TO  THE   'JUNIUS'  SECRET.  389 

purpose,  as  he  had  always  met  with  the  greatest  con- 
sideration and  kindness  there,  particularly  since  his  age 
and  long  standing  had  made  him  a  kind  of  father  of  the 
club,  he  was  inflexible.  Nothing  but  a  strong  and  secret 
motive  would  have  induced  him  to  do  it,  as  it  was  very 
convenient,  being  so  near  his  house,  and  a  constant 
resource  when  he  wished  for  society.  He  knew  that 
he  could  not  continue  his  name  without  being  tempted 
to  go,  and  as  at  that  time  he  never  met  with  an  acquaint- 
ance who  did  not  mention  the  book  to  him,  he  felt  that  it 
was  a  necessary  sacrifice  .  .  . 

'Few  people  who  lived  so  much  in  the  world  were 
so  little  really  known  as  Sir  Philip.  Neither  his  wit 
or  wisdom,  his  understanding  or  temper,  were  done 
justice  to.  The  confirmed  habit  of  his  life,  begun  in. 
secretaryships  to  high  official  characters,  where  an  in- 
judicious word  would  have  been  treason,  which  fitted  him 
for  the  marvellous  self-command  required  by  a  "  Junius," 
was  evident  to  those  who  watched  him  narrowly.  In 
every  word  that  fell  from  him  in  society,  he  seemed,  as 
at  chess,  to  see  ten  moves  before  him,  and  to  be  on  his 
guard  not  to  lay  his  game  open  by  any  of  them.  He 
was  ever  on  his  guard  against  himself.  In  company  he 
never  would  allow  himself  to  be  questioned,  and  some- 
times gave  such  answers  as  the  querist  was  little  inclined 
to  provoke  again.  This  restraint  was  a  great  disadvantage 
to  his  conversational  powers  and  social  qualities,  of  which 
the  greatest  charm  consists  in  a  careless  abandon,  when 
the  mind  is  so  enriched  by  study  and  so  fertile  by 
nature  as  his.  To  see  him  in  his  true  character,  you 
must  see  him  with  the  few  in  whose  faith  and  discretion 
he  confided;  who,  he  knew,  would  neither  take  advantage 
of  an  inadvertent  admission,  ask  him  an  ensnaring 
question,  look  deeper  into  his  mind  than  he  chose  to 


390  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1816 

be  looked  into,  nor  betray  him  whatever  discoveries 
they  made.  Francis,  with  such,  was  a  different  man 
from  Francis  in  society.  There  he  dared  only  flash  a 
moment,  and  shut  up  the  cloud  again  in  thicker  darkness. 
Sheridan,  Burke,  Fox,  Erskine,  and  the  other  wits  of  that 
brilliant  day,  had  no  such  incubus  to  weigh  down  their 
free  spirits.  Their  bosoms'  lords  sat  lightly  on  their 
thrones  during  the  splendid  reunions  of  Devonshire  and 
Carlton  Houses.  This  prevented  Sir  Philip  from  being 
popular  in  the  world,  or  beloved  except  by  the  few  who 
saw  him  without  his  armour,  like  Achilles  in  his  tent, 
who  never  appears  to  such  advantage. 

'No  man  loves  another  who  perceives  that  not  only 
his  heart  is  closed  to  him,  but  his  mind  also  ;  that  he  has  no 
confidence  in  him ;  and  this  was  the  fate  of  Sir  Philip 
Francis,  with  the  exception  of  two  or  three  people  whose 
penetration  made  them  discover  the  secret  and  under- 
stand his  situation.  The  principal  of  these  was  Edmund 
Burke.  He  saw  so  much  of  Francis  that  it  was  impossible, 
with  his  skill  in  language  and  in  character,  that  he  could 
fail ;  but  his  great  and  delicate  soul  never  embarrassed 
his  friend  by  an  intimation  on  the  subject.  Sir  Philip 
found  out  Mr.  Burke's  belief  by  his  avoiding  it  during 
their  almost  interminable  conversations  under  the  groves 
at  East  Sheen  on  every  publication  of  any  interest,  and 
by  the  way  in  which  he  turned  off  any  conversation  that 
might  bring  Francis  into  a  dilemma.  Once,  at  Mr. 
Burke's  table,  a  gentleman  who  was  rather  noted  for 
cross-questioning  and  boundless  curiosity,  on  "  Junius " 
being  mentioned,  turned  suddenly  to  Mr.  Francis,  and 
said, "  You,  sir,  were  in  the  War  Office  about  that  time ;  do 
you  think  that  anyone  in  your  department,  as  many  assert, 
was  the  writer .?  "  Before  Mr.  Francis  had  time  to  reply 
(as  it  required  some  consideration,  if  Burke  beheved  him 


1^16]        CONDUCT  AS  TO  TflE  'JUNIUS'  SECRET.  S91 

"Junius,"  and  was  right  in  his  belief,  to  avoid  the  de- 
gradation of  falsehood  in  his  eyes),  that  noble-minded 
person  spared  him,  with  apparent  carelessness,  but  real 
dexterity ;  he  seemed  to  recover  from  a  reverie,  and 
started  a  subject  which  he  knew  was  his  guest's  hobby. 
The  bait  took,  he  followed  the  lead,  and  "Junius"  was 
mentioned  no  more  at  that  sitting.  Another  person, 
at  another  time,  in  Burke's  presence  said,  "  Francis,  do 
you  believe  Lord  Chatham  wrote  any  of  Junius's  letters, 
or  knew  the  author  ?  "  To  which  he  answered,  "  I  can't 
tell."  At  that  moment  he  met  Burke's  eyes,  who  raised 
his  hand  to  his  chin,  rubbing  his  mouth  to  hide  an 
involuntary  smile,  but  his  eyes  above  said  as  plainly  as 
eyes  could  say,  "  I  know  you  can't."  It  should  be 
remembered  that  at  this  time,  and  till  the  "  Junius 
Identified  "  came  out,  Francis  had  so  skilfully  managed 
the  afiair  as  to  be  not  even  suspected.  He  might  talk  on 
it,  play  with  it,  like  any  other.  Had  he  avoided  it 
obviously,  or  shown  irritabihty  on  the  subject,  it  would 
have  bred  suspicion.  His  cue  was  to  observe  what 
the  many  said  and  did,  and  say  and  do  likewise.  But 
v/hen  the  charge  came  out,  his  situation  was  entirely 
changed.  He  must  either  stop  all  questions,  and  the 
avenues  to  them,  or  give  a  straightforward,  undoubted 
denial,  or  admit  its  truth.  I  have  explained  why  he 
could  not  do  the  latter.  I  need  not  give  reasons  why 
Junius  would,  if  possible,  avoid  the  second.  Thus  the 
first  must  have  been  his  choice,  and  ,we  find  it  was.  His 
answer  to  Mr.  Eogers,  at  Lord  Holland's,  was  from 
necessity,  not  choice.  He  made  it  with  regret,  for  he  had 
only  lately  made  his  acquaintance,  and  was  much 
pleased  with  his  manners  and  conversation.  Junius 
could  not  allow  himself  to  be  questioned  after  the  book 
came  out,  and  we  find  that  the  answer  he  made  to  Mr. 


392  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

Eogers  prevented  its  ever  being  attempted  again.  ^  Sir 
Philip  related  all  his  anecdotes  relative  to  "Junius"  without 
either  contradicting  or  avowing  the  identity ;  he  knew 
my  opinion,  and  left  me  to  draw  my  own  inferences. 
He  never  mentioned  Burke  without  some  expression 
of  love  and  admiration,  and  the  tears  were  in  his 
eyes  when  he  told  me  the  above  as  proofs  of  his  con- 
sideration for  his  friend's  feelings  as  well  as  his  convictions 
on  the  subject  of  "Junius."  The  pursuit  at  one  time 
was  so  unremitting,  and  the  danger  of  discovery  so 
great,  that  it  was  necessary  to  use  every  art  in  practice 
to  secure  his  safety ;  he  had  not  only  to  hide  his  secret 
but  to  appear  incapable  of  hiding  it.  Volto  sciolto, 
petto  stretto,  was  never  out  of  his  thoughts,  and  not 
unfrequently  on  his  tongue,  when  with  the  few  he  could 
trust.  After  the  "  Junius  Identified  "  appeared,  I  was  with 
him  one  day  when  he  was  reading  something  on  the 
subject.  He  suddenly  burst  into  a  shout  of  laughter. 
As  he  had  bid  me  take  no  notice  whenever  he  exclaimed, 
or  anathematised,  or  laughed,  or  stamped,  or  muttered 
curses,  not  loud  but  deep,  as  he  read  (and  I  have  witnessed 
all  when  reading  the  debates),  I  took  no  notice,  but 
observed  the  place  he  was  reading.  When  I  had  an 
opportunity,  I  looked  for  the  passage  that  had  so 
irresistibly  overcome  his  gravity ;  it  was  the  relation  of 
Dr.  Parr's  opinion  of  himself  in  connection  with  "  Junius." 
"  No,  sir,  Francis  did  not  write  those  letters ;  he  is  too 
brave  to  fear  the  disclosiure,  and  too  vain  to  keep  it  to 
himself.     Francis  could  not  keep  a  secret ;  it  would  be 

'  According  to  the  common  version  of  this  story — told,  among  others,  hy 
the  poet  Moore  in  his  Journal— Rogers  was  simple  enough  to  allow  himself 
to  he  persuaded  hy  Lord  Holland,  or  some  other  mischievous  friend,  to  go 
and  aslc  Francis  point-hlank  whether  he  wrote  '  Junius.'  The  poet  returned 
with  a  discomfited  look.  They  questioned  him  as  to  his  success.  '  I  do  not 
know  whether  he  is  Junius,'  was  the  reply,  'hut  I  am  sure  he  is  Brutus.' 
Rogers  is  said  to  have  always  denied  this  tale. 


1816]  DR.  PAER  AND  FRANCIS.  393 

impossible  for  him  to  keep  a  secret !  "  It  was  this  decisive 
sentence  of  a  dictator  in  literature  which  tickled  him 
so  much,  and  I  found  out  from  his  conversation  that  day 
that  it  had  been  a  great  enjoyment  to  him,  during  his 
long  incognito,  to  hear  these  mistakes  of  the  infallible. 
Dr.  Parr  had  fallen  into  the  snare  that  "Junius" set  for 
those  who  presumed  to  penetrate  into  the  cloud  he 
wrapped  himself  in.  Had  Dr.  Parr  possessed  much 
knowledge  of  character,  he  would  have  been  very  sure 
that  "  Junius  "  was  not  a  man  pour  s'affi.cher  as  a  profound 
secret-keeper ;  if  he  were,  his  secrecy  would  never  have 
been  the  wonder  of  the  world.  Dr.  Parr  had  seen  very 
little  of  Sir  Philip ;  they  had  only  met  at  a  few  Whig 
dinners,  but  there  was  an  originality  and  peculiarity  about 
him  that  would  make  a  penetrating  man  hesitate  before 
he  decided  on  his  powers  and  qualities  of  mind.  Had 
Dr.  Parr  possessed  more  than  meets  the  eye,  he  might 
have  suspected  that  such  was  the  case  with  Sir  Philip. 
A  coasting  voyage  does  not  make  a  man  acquainted  with 
all  the  interior  of  a  great  country.  The  Doctor  would 
have  done  better,  with  so  superficial  a  knowledge  as 
he  had  on  the  svibject,  to  answer  as  Sir  Philip  did  when 
asked  if  he  thought  Edmund  Burke  was  the  author — "  I 
agree  with  Momus  that  it  would  be  an  improvement  if 
every  man  had  a  window  in  his  bosom  ;  but  as  he  has 
not,  I  am  sorry  that  I  can  neither  satisfy  your  curiosity 
nor  my  own  on  this  point."  ' 

To  the  following  paper  of  memoranda,  which  I  find 
together  with  those  of  Lady  Francis,  I  am  unable  to  as- 
sign an  author.  It  was  evidently  not  her  ladyship,  but  a 
man,  and  some  one  who  had  an  early  and  close  acquaint- 
ance with  the  subject  of  it : — 

'  The  influences  which  surround  us  in  these  days  of 
diffused  knowledge  and  restless  activity  tend  no  doubt  to 


39i  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1816 

produce  similarity,  if  not  equality,  between  man  and  man. 
With  a  few  striking  and  notorious  exceptions,  we  see  few 
men  markedly  distinguished  by  tone,  phrase,  and  bearing, 
from  the  generality  of  the  class  to  which  they  belong. 
There  is  a  conventional  standard  in  these  matters,  which 
all  English  gentlemen  now  approach,  though  from  dif- 
ferent sides.  It  was  happy  for  the  subject  of  this  memoir 
that  he  hved  in  a  time  when  originality  was  pardonable, 
and  the  manners  expressed  the  man.  Probably  he  never 
could  have  subdued  his  vehemence  of  gesture,  and  toned 
down  liis  energetic  phrase,  to  suit  the  decorous  indifference, 
the  guarded  generalities,  of  modern  conversation ;  certainly 
he  could  not  have  done  so  without  losing  much  of  what 
marked  him  even  in  an  age  of  remarkable  men.  He 
spoke  as  he  thought,  without  fear  and  without  disguise,and 
his  movements  indicated  the  emotions  that  stirred  him. 
Lord  Brougham's  personal  sketch  of  him,  in  his  "  States- 
men of  the  Eeign  of  George  III."  admirably  portrays  his 
siagularities  of  demeanour.  But  his  Lordship's  limits 
forbade  more  than  a  slight  though  masterly  sketch.  Let 
us  try,  while  there  are  yet  living  those  who  can  judge 
of  the  fidelity  of  the  portraiture,  to  convey  a  fuller  im- 
pression of  the  personal  characteristics  of  one  who  was 
hke  nobody  but  himself.  We  have  already  said  that  Sir 
Philip  Francis  was  strikingly  handsome.  Several  portraits 
taken  at  various  periods  of  his  life,  one  of  which  has 
furnished  the  frontispiece  to  this  volume,^  remain  to  attest 
the  fine  form  of  his  head  and  the  classical  chiseUing  of 
the  features.  A  phrenologist  would  have  especially 
admired  the  type  of  the  ear,  which  v/as  small,  dehcately 
moulded,  and  set  far  back.  His  figure  was  tall,  erect, 
and  well  proportioned,  but  with  no  remarkable  muscular 
development.     His  whole  mien  and  carriage  were  calcu- 

'  I  suppose,  of  an  intended  biography. 


1816]  HABITS  AND  DEMEANOUR.  395 

lated  to  attract  notice  in  any  cii'cle  and  under  any  circum- 
stances ;  yet  it  might  be  said  that  both  face  and  figure 
were  but  half  seen  in  repose.  When  his  feelings  were 
deeply  stirred,  every  feature,  every  gesture,  spoke.  Even 
late  in  life  his  colour  would  rise,  his  lip  quiver,  his  eyes 
seem  to  flash  fire.  Pacing  rapidly  forward  as  if  to  pursue 
a  thought,  he  would  suddenly  turn  short  round,  draw 
himself  up  to  his  full  height,  and  "  with  a  sweeping  of  the 
arm,"  evolve  some  epigrammatic  sentence  or  well-rounded 
quotation.  Even  his  own  family,  habituated  as  they  were 
to  these  sudden  interruptions  of  the  measured  tread  with 
which  he  loved  to  pace  up  and  down  the  utmost  length 
that  a  small  suite  of  rooms  would  allow  him,  were  some- 
times startled  by  the  vehemence  of  the  outbreak ;  and 
strangers  were  absolutely  electrified.  A  near  relative  of 
Lady  Francis  has  frequently  related  to  the  writer  the  cir- 
cumstances under  which  she  first  heard  one  of  these  for- 
cible soliloquies.  A  passage  from  "  Junius  "  had  been 
cited  in  support  of  some  pohtical  view.  He  caught  it  up, 
illustrated  it,  capped  it  by  a  fresh  quotation  from  the 
same  source,  and  finally  summed  up  his  energetic  ap- 
proval in  these  words,  delivered  ore  rotundo  : — 

'  "  And  thus  it  always  is  with  the  asserter  of  great 
principles : — 

Howe'er  by  Folly  or  by  Faction  cross'd, 
He  finds  the  gen'rous  labour  was  not  lost, 
Enjoys  the  honours  destined  to  his  name, 
And  lives  instanter  in  his  future  fame. 

"I  had  never  before,"  said  his  hearer  (of  whose  presence, 
by  the  bye,  he  seemed  utterly  regardless  while  thus  de- 
claiming),." suspected  his  connection  with  '  Junius ;'  I  never 
afterwards  doubted  it."  It  would  not  unfrequently  happen 
that  the  eye  was  but  little  aided  by  the  ear  in  tracing  the 
course  of  his  feelings.     Indignation  would  at  times  seem 


30R  MEMOIRS  OP  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1816 

almost  to  master  his  utterance.  For  betrayed  confidence 
or  violated  friendship  he  had  burning  words  of  repre- 
hension on  paper  ;  but  his  spoken  comment  scarcely  got 
beyond  a  single  word,  muttered,  as  if  to  himself,  with 
clenched  hand  and  knitted  brow,  "  Base,  base  !  He,  too, 
the  hound !  "  In  truth,  the  superfluous  strength  of  phrase 
which  he  would  employ  on  ordinary  occasions,  with  a  view 
to  burlesque,  diminished  his  resources  for  invective,  and 
without  the  aid  of  tone  and  gesture  he  must  often  have 
been  misunderstood.  What  Coleridge  terms  "  words  of 
unmeant  bitterness  "  were  with  him  frequent  endearments. 
"  What ! "  he  would  exclaim,  when  told  by  his  eldest 
daughter  that  the  little  ones  had  been  rather  noisy, 
"  what !  do  they  rebel  ?  Those  green  dragons,  those 
sucking  furies — do  they  rebel  ?  "  On  receiving  a  visit 
from  his  grandchildren,  his  first  sentence  was  generally 
addressed  to  the  servant,  "  Bring  chocolate;  young  ravens 
must  be  fed  ! "  ^  No  matter  what  their  sex,  his  young 
relatives  were  never  "  pets,"  or  "  darlings,"  or  "loves;  "  he 
kept  aloof  from  the  dove-and- duckling  school  of  phrase, 
and  his  approval  of  an  amiable  and  inteUigent  little  girl 
reached  its  climax  when  he  called  her  "  an  honest  fellow.'' 
Much  of  this  was  mere  whim  in  earlier  life,  and  uncon- 
sciously became  a  set  habit.  But  it  was  doubtless  also 
connected  with  his  intense  hatred  for  any  indirectness  of 
expression,  which  he  regarded  as  a  sign  of  moral  weak- 
ness. Not  only  would  he  (as  related  by  Lord  Brougham) 
stand  out  for  a  plain  "  yes,"  when  answered  with  a  tedious 
"  unquestionably,"   but  even  the  monosyllable  must  not 

'  The  writer  well  remembers  the  serio-comic  emphasis  of  this  order,  though 
heard  long  before  his  promotion  to  a  jacket.  He  would  frequently  in  child- 
hood resort  to  Sir  Philip  for  comfort  when  he  imagined  himself  ill-treated  by 
the  nursery  authorities,  and  always  felt  a  vague  satisfaction  at  the  sonorous 
threat  (backed  by  the  flourish  of  a  ponderous  stick),  '  Rring  them  to  me,  and 
1 11  contund  them  all  1 ' 


1816]  HABITS  AND  DEMEANOUR.  397 

be  drawled.  "  Ya-a-s — what's  that  ?  Say  '  yes  '  like  a 
man."  So  no  man  was  less  tolerant  of  a  tedious  or  blun- 
dering story.  An  intimate  acquaintance,  in  speaking  of  a 
lady  then  about  to  be  married,  made  this  singular  lapsus 
linguce  :  "  Now  you  see.  Sir  Philip,  Coke  of  Holkham  is 
her  aunt." — "What  sir  ?  " — "  Coke  of  Holkham,  you  know, 
is  her  aunt."  The  repeated  blunder  irritated  more  than  it 
amused  him.  "  Do  I  understand  you  to  affirm,  sir,  that 
Coke  of  Holkham  is  her  aunt  ?  " — "  To  be  sure  I  do." 
"  Then,  sir,  I  wish  you  a  good  morning."  And  without  a 
word  of  explanation,  he  hurried  away  from  the  bewildered 
narrator.  I  have  already  observed  that  his  eccentricities 
of  language  and  tone  increased  with  his  years.  On  one 
occasion,  in  spite  of  his  habitual  deference  to  the  fair  sex, 
he  was  even  betrayed  by  it  into  a  shocking  rudeness. 

Handing  Lady down  to  supper  in  the  Bath  Assembly 

Eooms,  he  was  unluckily  struck  by  the  size  of  her  hand, 
and  his  daughter,  some  yards  behind,  was  horrified  by 
hearing  him,  in  what  he  intended  for  a  whispered  "  aside  " 
to  a  friend,  distinctly  utter  the  words,  "  Gods !  what  a 
fist !  "  To  complete  the  absurdity,  he  had  been  during 
the  evening  making  himself  studiously  agreeable  to  the 
lady  in  question.  I  have  been  told  that  she  afterwards 
pardoned  the  unconscious  offence,  an  instance  of  magna- 
nimity barely  credible. 

'  In  point  of  dress.  Sir  Philip  was  of  the  old  school,  and 
objected  much  to  anything  like  a  "  free-and-easy  "  style  of 
costume.  Boots  and  trousers  in  a  drawing-room  were  an 
abomination  to  him.  His  own  dress  (late  in  his  life)  was 
often  fairly  open  to  criticism.  It  was  very  difficult  to 
make  him  believe  that  a  coat  which  had  seen  long  service 
ought  to  be  cashiered,  and  he  would  uphold  the  merits  of 
such  a  garment  in  a  manner  which  was  alternately  the 
amusement  and  the  despair  of  his  family.     Occasionally 


808  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRAXCIS.  [1816 

he  would  make  an  elaborate  toilette  "pour  les  beaux  yeux" 
of  some  lady  whom  he  specially  admired,  but  a  relapse 
soon  followed.  This  was  one  instance  of  a  penuriousness 
in  trifles,  either  real  or  affected,  which  seemed  to  grow 
upon  him.  He  had  indeed  sometimes  found  amusement 
in  little  acts  of  eccentric  parsimony  long  before  anything 
like  a  habit  could  be  traced.  For  instance,  having  on  one 
occasion  gone  to  visit  his  two  youngest  daughters  at  a 
school  kept  by  two  worthy,  but,  in  his  opinion,  not  very 
profound,  ladies,  he  seemed  bent  on  a  general  mystification. 
After  running  on  for  a  long  time  in  a  strain  of  energetic 
nonsense  which  perfectly  confounded  the  governesses,  he 
took  out  sixpence,  and,  presenting  it  to  his  daughters,  de- 
sired them  "to  divide  that  between  them  hke  honest 
fellows  !  "  In  a  like  spirit,  he  would  often  stoop  suddenly 
down,  and  exclaiming,  "  Here's  a  fine  pin  !  "  present  the 
implement  with  an  air  of  mock  exultation  to  some  lady 
of  the  party.  But  no  doubt  in  his  later  years  he  grew 
earnest  in  some  petty  savings.  Though  neither  begging- 
letters  nor  advertisements  by  post  had  then  attained  their 
full  development,  he  had  a  great  horror  of  paying  two- 
pence for  a  printed  circular,  and  would  sometimes  give 
stringent  orders  to  exclude  any  suspicious  document. 
On  one  occasion  the  rejected  letter  announced  to  hiip 
that  he  had  obtained  a  slice  of  a  new  loan  to  the  amount 
of  10,000/.  His  friend,  Mr.  Angerstein,^  drove  up  to  the 
door  in  the  course  of  the  same  afternoon,  bringing  back 
the  golden  tidings  which  had  been  returned  on  his  hands 
with  the  civil  truism  that  "  he  supposed  there  had  been 
some  mistake."    Sir  Phihp's  confidential  servant.  Yarrow,^ 

^  A  memter  of  a  great  Russian  house,  best  known  as  the  connoisseur 
whose  collection  formed  the  nucleus  of  the  National  Gallery. 

*  The  final  parting  between  this  faithful  servant  and  his  master  was  a 
.singular  instance  of  romance  in  real  life.  One  night,  on  Sir  Philip's  return 
from  the  House,  Yarrow,  now  old,  and  rarely  quitting  the  porter's  chair  in 


1816]  HABITS  AND  DEMEANOUR.  399 

refused,  however,  to  be  made  the  scapegoat,  declaring 
that,  after  the  warning  he  had  received  on  the  subject,  it 
would  have  been  "  as  much  as  his  place  was  worth  "  to 
take  it  from  the  postman.  I  had  frequently,  said  his 
daughter  in  describing  the  scene,  seen  my  father  blush, 
but  when  we  brought  this  home  to  him,  he  absolutely 
crimsoned :  "  But  indeed,  sir,"  said  I,  "  it  was  worth  two- 
pence." "  Pshaw  !  "  he  answered  angrily,  "  it  was  merely 
my  detestation  of  those  vile  circulars."  However,  he  sat 
down,  and  dashed  off  a  note  of  apology  in  his  best  style. 
But  in  general  he  rather  affected  than  disclaimed  a 
systematic  economy.  On  one  occasion,  in  a  large  com- 
pany, he  enunciated,  as  the  most  valuable  result  of  a 
life's  experience,  the  following  pithy  sentence  :  "  Never 
give,  never  lend,  never  pay  anything  to  anybody  on  any 
account." 

'  It  must  not  be  supposed  that  he  shrank  from  giving. 
On  the  contrary,  after  access  to  various  records  of  his 
expenditure  from  his  youth  up,  I  can  affirm  that  to  his 
family  and  friends  he  was  singularly  open-handed,  and 
was  readily  moved  by  a  tale  of  distress  from  any  quarter. 
But  he  would  give  in  his  own  way.  Late  in  life  he  used 
to  look  in  the  newspaper  for  reports  of  fires  in  the  metro- 
polis, and  drive  to  the  spot  with  a  well-stocked  purse, 
which  he  was  sure  to  bring  home  empty.  "  Don't  talk  to 
me,"  he  would  say  on  any  expostulation ;  "  these  poor 
people  have  lost  everything."  His  taste  for  this  sort  of 
giving  grew  with  his  years,  and  in  fact  his  real  kindness 

the  hall,  encountered  his  master  with  a  face  of  portentous  length.  He  must 
quit  him  that  night !  This  resolution — quite  a  sudden  one — was  prompted  by 
what  may  he  termed  'conjugal  aversion.'  Thirty  years  before  that  time  his 
wife  and  he  had  deliberately  parted  company  in  India  :  '  and  now/  said  po3r 
Yarrow,  '  she  has  found  me  out,  and  proposes  that  we  should  live  together. 
She  is  coming  to  me  again  to-morrow  afternoon,  and  I'm  determined  she 
shan't  find  me.'  Nothing  could  shalte  his  purpose,  and  at  cockcrow  next 
day  he  departed — he  would  not  even  say  whither. 


400  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [181G 

of  heart  became  more  conspicuous  as  his  oddities  of  manner 
grew  incorrigible.  He  learnt  to  judge  of  actions  mildly, 
and,  to  use  his  own  language,  "  was  just  learning  how  to 
live  in  the  world  when  it  was  time  for  him  to  leave  it." 
He  sometimes  alarmed  his  friends  (and  few  men  had 
more),  often  startled  them ;  but  even  the  most  nervous 
loved  more  than  they  dreaded  him. 

'  Nothing,  however,  grows  so  insipid  by  lapse  of  time  as 
personal  anecdote.  The  allusions  become  indistinct,  the 
words  lose  the  original  seasoning  of  tone  and  gesture, 
the  facts  lose  their  interest,  and  even  their  authenticity  is 
apt  to  be  called  in  question  when  proof  has  become  impos- 
sible. With  a  multitude  of  recorded  traits  at  my  disposal 
for  the  illustration  of  the  powerful  and  peculiar  character 
with  which  I  am  dealing,  I  cannot  content  myself  either 
as  to  the  selection  or  the  mode  of  narrating.  To  conclude 
with  a  well-chosen  example  is  more  desirable  than  easy. 
The  following,  however,  is  at  least  highly  characteristic, 
and  was  communicated  a  few  years  since  by  the  only 
witness  of  the  scene,  on  whom  it  had  evidently  made  a 
deep  impression.  "  Late  one  night,"  said  the  narrator  (a 
medical  man  in  Kent,  who  recalled  the  facts  in  extreme 
old  age),  "  I  was  summoned  to  Hothfield,  to  see  a  gentle- 
man there  who  was  suddenly  taken  ill.  I  arrived  long 
after  midnight,  when  Lord  Thanet  and  his  other  guests 
were  in  bed,  and  was  shown  into  Sir  Philip  Francis's  sleep- 
ing-room. To  my  astonishment,  I  found  my  patient  in  full 
dress,  and  though  evidently  in  severe  pain,  striding  rapidly 
up  and  down  the  room.  Scarcely  waiting  for  me  to  feel  his 
pulse  or  enquire  as  to  his  symptoms,  he  broke  out  thus, 

'  Well,  Mr. ,  what  do  you  think  of  it  ?  I  know  I 

am  very  ill ;  if  you  think  I'm  going  to  die,  tell  me  so  at 
once.  I  can't  die  here,  it's  impossible  ;  so  if  you  can't  do 
anything  for  me,  say  so  at  once,  I'll  order  horses  directly, 


1816]  ANECDOTES  RESPECTING  JUNIUS.  '401 

post  up  to  town,  settle  my  papers,  see  Dr.  Warren,  and 
die  like  a  gentleman  ! '  " ' 

The  following  was  communicated  to  Mr.  Parkes  by  the 
Dean  of  Bristol : — 

'  About  the  time  that  "Junius  Identified"  was  pubhshed, 
a  party  was  assembled  at  Youngsbury,  in  Essex,  which 
included  the  Kings,  man  and  wife  ;  Mrs.  King  had  been  a 
Miss  Giles.  The  book  had  been  sent  down  to  Youngs- 
bury, and  was  the  subject  of  conversation.  Mrs.  King 
heard  some  of  the  party  speaking  of  the  facsimiles 
of  Junius's  handwriting,  inserted  in  the  book.  Having 
looked  at  them,  she  said.  "  I  know  that  handwriting  well." 
"Whose,  then,  is  it?"  asked  some  one.  "Philip  Fran- 
cis's."— "How  do  you  know  ?" — "  When  I  was  young,  and 
first  going  into  society  at  Bath,  I  received  letters  and  poetry 
from  an  anonymous  admirer  written  in  a  feigned  hand; 
these  were  afterwards  traced  to  Phihp  Francis." — "  Have 
you  preserved  those  papers  ?  " — "  Yes,  and  not  only  pre- 
served them,  but  I  have  got  them  here." — "Well,  then,  get 
them,  and  let  us  look  at  them."  Having  been  looked  at, 
the  whole  party  assented  that  the  hands  were  identical. 
This  was  told  me  by  the  Duke  of  Bedford.' 

With  reference  to  this  anecdote  ;  there  are  among  the 
Francis  papers  several  httle  copies  of  '  vers  de  societe,' 
written  by  Sir  Philip,  chiefly  for  ladies,  some  with,  and 
some  without,  the  names  of  the  persons  addressed.  I 
have  not  thought  it  necessary  to  afibrd  space  for  the 
insertion  of  compositions  only  intended  for  the  purpose 
of  the  hour,  and  neither  better  nor  worse  than  numbers 
of  similar  performances  by  men  of  great,  but  not  poetical, 
ability.  But  I  may  observe  that  none  of  those  which  I 
have  seen  is  in  the  famous  'feigned  hand'  to  which 
allusion  is  here  made. 

Before   quitting,   finally,   as    far   as   these  pages   are 

VOL.  II.  D  D 


402  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1816 

concerned,  the  subject  of  Junius,  I  will  add  an  extract 
from  a  letter  addressed  by  Mr.  Browning,  from  Paris, 
to  his  son,  the  eminent  poet,  by  whom  it  was  obligingly 
communicated  to  Mr.  Parkes  {his  father — the  grand- 
father of  the  poet — was  a  contemporary  of  Junius  and  of 
Calcraft,  and  well  versed  in  the  literary  and  newspaper 
literature  of  that  time) ;  and,  further,  a  letter  from  the 
sixth  Duke  of  Bedford  to  Sir  David  Brewster,  which 
contains  a  curious  anecdote.  It  was  the  impression  of 
Lady  Francis  that  her  husband,  a  great  adherent  of  the 
Kussells  in  his  later  days,  always  laboured  under  a 
consciousness  of  having  done  the  family  some  wrong  in 
early  life. 

Paris,  January  1864. 
Dear  Robert, — Of  every  hundred  of  Mr.  Taylor's  readers,  ninety- 
nine  lay  the  book  down  fully  persuaded  that  Junius  was  silenced  by 
government  with  an  enormous  bribe  .  .  .  When  Mr.  Parkes'  book 
comes  out,  that  opinion  will  be  classed  among  one  of  our  vulgar 
errors,  and  I  for  one  shall  feel  happy  in  having  that  important 
question  settled,  which  I  have  hitherto  looked  upon  as  a  disgrace- 
ful compounding  of  felony.  My  father  was  in  London  during  the 
period  of  Junius.  I  have  heard  him  say  that,  when  a  Junius  was 
out,  so  eager  was  everyone  to  know  the  contents  that  in  every 
coffee-house,  &c.  when  Woodfall's  paper  came  in,  some  gentleman, 
standing  upon  a  chair  or  a  table,  read  it  aloud  to  the  company,  so 
impatient  were  all  to  hear  it.  I  have  always  considered  Calcraft  to 
have  been  '  the  exulting  demon  of  this  storm,'  and  feel  conviction 
that  he  was  perfectly  acquainted  with  every  particular  respecting  it. 
For  although,  from  his  want  of  a  liberal  education,  he  could  not  pos- 
sibly be  the  writer,  yet  he  possessed  all  that  keen  observation  and 
shrewd  cunning  so  frequently  observable  in  that  rank  of  life  from 
which  he  originally  rose.  The  most  popular  account  we  have  of  him 
is  to  be  found  in  Miss  Bellamy's  '  Memoirs,'  which  may  be  picked  up 
everywhere. 

Duhe  of  Bedford  to  Sir  David  Brewster. 

January  14,  1837. 
My  dear  Sir  David, — I   have  had  the  honour  to  receive  your 
letter  of  the  7th,  and  I  much  fear  that  I  can  give  no  satisfactory 
reply  to  your  quei-ies  respecting  the  late  Sir  Philip  Francis. 


1818]  ANECDOTES  RESPECTING  JUNIUS.  403 

IBoth  my  late  brother  and  myself  lived  on  terms  of  great  intimacy 
with  Sir  Philip  for  some  years ;  but  except  in  the  course  of  casual 
conversation,  I  am  not  aware  that  the  subject  of  the  Junius  letters 
was  ever  touched  on  by  either  of  us.  When  the  publication  you 
allude  to  oame  out  in  1816,  both  Lord  Grey  and  I  thought  there 
was  strong  internal  evidence,  from  that'  publication,  of  Sir  Philip 
being  Junius. 

When  the  late  Lord  Ossory  died,  everyone  imagined  that  I  was 
to  succeed  him  as  lord-lieutenant  of  the  county  of  Bedford.  How- 
ever, his  Majesty's  then  ministers,  from  motives  purely  political, 
thought  fit  to  give  the  lord-lieutenancy  to  Lord  de  Grey,  who  was 
a  stranger  in  the  county. 

Sir  Philip  then  wrote  to  me  to  ask  to  see  me  at  my  house 
in  London.  He  came  to  me,  and  asked  me  many  questions  respect- 
ing this  lord-lieutenancy,  which  you  are  aware  was  held  by 
my  grandfather,  John  Duke  of  Bedford.  I  answered  all  his 
questions,  and  he  left  me  in  his  abrupt  manner,  saying,  '  Well,  sir, 
you  will  hear  of  me  after  I  am  dead.'  It  is  well  known  that  he 
had  written  the  memoirs  of  his  own  life,  which  have  never  yet 
been  brought  before  the  public.  This  is  all  the  information  I  can 
give  you,  which,  I  fear,  is  sufficiently  meagre.  Believe  me  to  be,  with 
perfect  truth  and  regard. 

Tour  very  faithful  servant, 

BEDrOED. 

This  may  be  the  most  convenient  place  for  adding  a 
few  miscellaneous  fragmentary  notes,  from  the  Francis 
papers,  containing  Sir  Philip's  opinions  and  sayings  on  a 
variety  of  subjects,  reported  by  his  lady,  and  to  be 
received  with  that  slight  amount  of  caution  for  which 
reasons  have  already  been  given. 


The  morning  before  his  death,  Francis  had  the  Morning 
Chronicle,  his  favourite  paper,  read  to  him.  It  contained 
some  French,  intelligence  upon  which  he  remarked — 
'  The  Bourbons  will  never  hold  out.  Some  great  change 
is  not  far  off.  Our  wise  rulers  half  ruined  this  coimtry  to 
restore  the  Bourbons  to  the  throne  of  France;  but  what  is 

D  B   2 


404  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

to  keep  them  there  ?  Another  such  a  victory  will  undo 
us.  But  mark  the  end  of  these  men.  It  cannot  and  wiU 
not  come  to  good.' 


When  speaking  of  Whitbread,  after  his  death  (by  his 
own  hand,  in  a  fit  of  insanity),  Francis  said  of  him,  '  There 
was  only  one  thing  in  Whitbread's  manners  I  did  not  like 
or  understand,  for  he  was  an  honest  man  and  a  man  of 
business.  He  had  an  habitual  laugh,  a  laugh  without 
merriment.  It  was  a  trick  he  had  got ;  he  laughed 
whenever  he  spoke.  In  general  I  neither  like  a  person 
to  smile  without  a  cause  nor  laugh  from  habit.  They 
who  do  so  have  something  false  about  them.  Like  the 
feline  race,  they  wrap  their  claws  in  velvet ;  their  com- 
placence is  often  assumed  to  hide  their  hatred  of  the 
person  addressed.  With  poor  Whitbread  it  was  different. 
He  was  labouring  to  conceal  the  state  of  his  mind ;  he 
wished  to  be  gay,  to  believe  he  was  happy.  I  could  see 
he  was  concealing  something,  but  I  had  no  idea  what. 
The  catastrophe  has  proved  what  his  secret  misery  was.' 


If  a  young  lady  fancied  herself  a  genius,  I  would  tell 
her  the  history  of  Madame  de  Stael.  I  have  seen  that 
accomplished  lady  in  company  with  the  tears  streaming 
down  her  face  because  she  was  la  hete  noire,  la  bete 
d'aversion,  everywherts.  People  avoided  her  as  they 
would  the  plague  ;  all  except  those  who  came  to  look  at 
her  as  if  she  were  a  boa  constrictor,  or  an  orang-outang, 
whose  antics  they  watched,  to  make  a  story  of  them  for 
the  next  company.  She  was,  I  believe,  the  most  unhappy 
creature  on  earth.  The  first  time  I  saw  her  was  at  'Miss 
Beriy's   soir(5e.     When   I   entered   the   room,   she   was 


ISiSJ  TABLE  TALK.  405 

standing  at  bay,  as  I  thought,  in  the  midst  of  a  circle, 
prepared  for  the  attack  which  some  of  her  worshippers 
seemed  about  to  make.  The  rest  of  the  company  acted 
audience  '  all  eye,  all  ear,'  but  no  voice.  At  length  one 
of  the  most  daring  hazarded  a  question,  determined 
to  share  immortality  with  her  or  perish  in  the  glorious 
attempt.  Bonaparte  had  just  been  sent  to  Elba,  and  had 
been  the  subject  of  conversation,  and  the  querist  asked 
Madame  whether  she  considered  Bonaparte  a  great 
man.  Breathless  silence  awaited  the  response  of  the 
oracle,  which  was  this,  '  Bonaparte  is  not  a  man,  but  a 
system.'  Murmurs  of  applause  ran  round  the  room, 
mixed  with  audible  whispers,  '  How  profound ! '  '  How 
true  ! '  '  How  fine ! '  '  How  original ! '  Mr.  James  Smith, 
one  of  the  authors  of  the  'Eejected  Addresses,'  was 
there.  He  was  not  a  man  to  be  cajoled  by  mere  sounds 
or  the  magic  of  a  name,  and  sotto  voce,  he  demanded 
of  his  neighbour,  who  had  been  one  of  the  applauders, 
'  Do  you  know  what  she  means  ?  ' — '  0  yes ! '  was 
the  answer.  '  What  is  it  ?  '  said  Smith.  '  Why,  that 
Bonaparte  is  not  a-a-a  man  but  a-a-a  system.' — 'Well, 
and  what  does  she  mean  by  that  ?  '  pursued  the  inexorable 
Smith.  '  Why,  I  don't  exactly  know,  but  I  suppose  she  did 
mean  something.'  Smith  put  the  same  questions  to 
numerous  other  hearers  and  applauders  with  similar 
results. 


Francis  told  an  anecdote  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford : — 
'  I  was  staying  at  Woburn  without  any  party  being  there; 
and  I  noticed  that  the  park  was  full  of  strollers  from  the 
neighbourhood,  and  they  came  even  close  up  to  the 
windows.  I  said  to  his  Grace,  "  I  wonder  that  you,  who 
love  retirement,  do  not  shut  up  your  grounds — at  least 


4C6  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PinLlP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

on  particular  days,  or  limit  it  to  respectable  people.  It 
is  never  private,  which,  I  am  sure,  must  annoy  you." 
The  Duke's  answer  was,  "I  find  myself,  without  any 
merit  or  exertion  of  my  own,  in  a  situation  wliere  I  have 
the  power  of  doing  many  kind  or  unkind  actions  to  my 
feUow-creatures.  I  consider  myself  a  steward  to  do  the 
best  I  can  with  the  means  placed  in  my  hands,  no  doubt, 
for  the  benefit  of  others.  A  rich  man  can  use  very  little 
of  his  riches  on  himself,  and  he  should  use  them  so  as 
to  promote  as  much  general  good  as  possible.  If  I  were 
to  shut  up  this  place,  many  people  who  enjoy  it  as 
much  as  I  do  would  be  shut  out  of  much  innocent 
and  healthy  amusement.  All  those  people  we  now  see 
may  come  as  freely  as  you  or  I,  and  probably  have  much 
more  pleasure  in  it.  If  I  were  to  close  my  gates,  from  a 
selfishness  of  feeling,  I,  who  have  a  thousand  gratifications 
in  my  power,  should  deprive  these  poor  people  perhaps 
of  their  only  one  or  their  greatest." ' 


The  most  dangerous  of  men  is  an  active  fool.  There 
is  not  stufi'  enough  in  a  fool  to  make  an  honest  man.  It 
is  possible  to  cure  a  fool  of  a  folly,  but  you  cannot  cure 
him  of  being  a  fool. 


'  Once,  on  going  to  his  room,'  Lady  Francis  says, '  where 
I  thought  him  alone,  I  heard  him  speaking  in  anger,  and, 
pausing  a  moment  to  find  who  was  with  him,  and  to 
decide  whether  it  was  proper  to  intrude,  when,  to  my 
surprise,  I  heard  him  say  with  much  vehemence,  "  You 
lie,  you  scoundrel ; "  and,  mentioning  the  names  of  a 
certain  Tory  placeman,  he  went  on,  "  You  lie,  sir,  you 
lie,  and  you  know  it."     Hearing  the  newspaper  thrown 


1818]  TABLE   TALK.  407 

down,  and,  as  I  thought,  stamped  on,  I  was  satisfied  he  w^as 
alone.  I  examined  the  newspapers  of  the  day,  and  found 
that  a  member  had  quoted  Junius  in  the  House,  and  the 
Tory  placeman  mentioned  by  Sir  Philip  had  impugned  the 
authority  of  Junius,  whom  he  called  a  masked  assassin.' 


The  history  of  savages  is  hke  that  of  children,  without 
the  innocence  and  promise  that  attend  childhood.  Sa- 
vages are  never  vulgar.  Vulgarity  is  bred  in  cities  and 
towns,  which  are  the  drains  and  sewers  of  society,  having 
all  sorts  of  low  and  corrupt  communications.  No  solitary 
is  vulgar  ;  neither  is  a  child,  until  it  associates  with  those 
who  are  so.  The  cow-boy  who  sits  on  a  rock,  carving 
his  hazel  stick,  or  making  gardens  of  wild  flowers,  and 
listens  to  blackbirds,  is  elegant  compared  to  the  rich  cit 
born  and  bred  to  his  trade.  The  Eed  Indian  may  be 
cruel,  mny  be  inconstant  and  fickle  as  a  child,  but  he  is  a 
warrior  and  a  gentleman.  We  call  savages  ignorant 
because  they  are  deficient  in  our  acquirements  ;  but,  in 
fact,  the  wild  tribes  of  North  America  and  many  other 
places  give  their  youth  an  education  in  many  points  of 
manners  and  la  petite  ■morale  which  polished  nations 
would  do  well  to  imitate.  Savages  are  accustomed  to 
bear  unavoidable  evils  without  murmuring,  which  natu- 
rally gives  dignity  and  strength  of  mind.  In  England 
and  France,  half  the  conversation  consists  of  selfish  la- 
mentations on  subjects  better  discussed  with  a  doctor. 
We  might  improve  from  the  savages  in  an  art  which  we 
fancy  we  possess  in  perfection — the  use  of  speech,  which 
appears  to  me  to  be  the  abuse  of  it,  for  we  all  talk  at 
once,  and  nobody  listens.  Who  can  listen  when  twenty- 
soliloquies  are  going  on  at  once .?  The  French  are  even 
worse  than  ourselves.  They  talk  in  chorus  even  at  the  opera, 


408  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

which  they  pretend  to  admire,  and  no  music  is  so  gratifying 
as  the  sound  of  their  own  "  sweet  voices."  I  have  heard 
the  whole  pit  join  in  their  favourite  songs,  with  ears  and 
voices  equally  defective.  The  savage,  on  the  contrary, 
never  interrupts,  never  speaks  until  there  is  silence.  If 
young,  he  wUl  not  presume  to  give  his  opinion  in  the 
presence  of  his  elders  or  superiors  unless  called  on  to  do 
so,  and  he  then  speaks  with  modesty  and  conciseness, 
apologising  for  his  inexperience.  Which  is  the  more 
gentlemanly  behaviour  of  the  two,  that  of  the  man  of  the 
city  or  the  man  of  the  woods  ? 


English  education  is  very  defective  in  forming  the 
manners.  The  higher  classes  have  the  best,  because 
early  in  life  they  are  accustomed  to  live  with  those  who 
require  to  be  treated  with  deference  and  respect.  Vulgar- 
minded  people,  and  those  accustomed  to  low  associations 
early  in  life,  never  attain  that  deferential  and  respectful 
manner  which  gives  superiority  its  due  without  degrading 
the  giver.  They  cannot  be  lively  without  being  pert  and 
familiar,  nor  grave  without  being  sullen  and  neglectful ; 
and  they  are  never  happy  in  good  company,  unless  they 
can  show  that  they  '  don't  viind  them.'  It  is  not  safe  to 
jest  with  these  people.  So  long  as  they  keep  to  matters 
of  fact,  they  may  be  tolerable,  but  the  moment  they  pretend 
to  wit  or  raillery,  the  roture  comes  out,  and  they  are  very 
apt  to  be  mauvais  plaisants. 


Conversation  has  much  improved  amongst  the  higher 
classes  of  late  years,  not  only  in  manner,  but  in  matter ;  but 
even  now  people  of  rank,  who  have  had  every  advantage 
that  education  can  confer,  speak  ungrammatically,  or  mis- 


1818]  ATTACK  ON  CANNING.  409 

pronounce  their  words.  When  they  wish  to  speak  more 
politely  than  their  neighbours,  they  often  merely  succeed 
in  speaking  more  affectedly. 


Sir  Philip's  eager  attention  to  pohtical  questions  con- 
tinued unabated  to  the  end  of  hfe.  The  last,  probably, 
of  his  publications  is  the  '  Petition  of  the  Freeholders  of 
the  County  of  Middlesex,  to  the  House  of  Commons, 
preceded  by  the  speech  with  which  it  was  introduced  ; '  by 
Sir  Philip  Francis,  1817  :  in  which  he  took  up  the  cause 
of  the  numerous  political  convicts  who  were  then  detained 
under  the  suspension  of  the  Habeas  Corpus  Act.  Out  of 
this  subject  arose,  also,  his  last  personal  quarrel,  which, 
by  a  curious  fatality,  was  of  a  kind  to  revive  (although 
mistakenly)  the  memories  of  his  early  sins  as  an  anony- 
mous writer.  In  the  debates  on  this  subject.  Canning,  in 
the  indulgence  of  those  Bohemian  propensities  which  were 
constantly  too  much  for  him,  had  outstepped  the  bounds, 
not  only  of  ministerial  preciseness,  but  of  right  feeling 
and  judgment,  by  indulging  in  sarcastic  remarks  on  the 
bodily  infirmities  of  one  of  those  political  victims,  as 
their  own  side  considered  them.  '  Party,'  says  Lady 
Francis,  '  ran  very  high,  and  I  remember  Sir  Philip  and 
myself  dined,  the  day  Canning's  speech  appeared  in  the 
papers,  in  company  with  some  placemen,  who  were 
exulting  at  the  success  of  it,  and  the  set  down  which  he 
had  given  to  the  "friend  of  humanity."  Sir  Philip  gave  a 
sneer  or  two  in  a  way  peculiarly  his  own  .  .  .  These 
might  probably  be  repeated  to  Mr.  Canning,  and  when  in 
a  short  time  after  a  most  severe  personal  attack  on  him 
appeared  in  a  pamphlet  without  a  name,  but  evidently 
aiming  at  the  style  of  Junius,  he  was  so  irritated  .  .  . 
that  he  actually  sent  Mr.  Dennis  O'Brian,  a  gentleman 


410  MEMOIRS   OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

well  known  to  both  parties,  to  ask  Sir  Philip  if  he  had 
written  the  pamphlet,  and  to  intimate  that,  if  he  had,  he 
should  expect  an  apology  or  satisfaction.'  It  is  difficult, 
notwithstanding  the  lady's  authority,  to  imagine  such  a 
proceeding  on  the  part  of  Canning  towards  a  man  of  Sir 
Philip's  age.  Of  course,  there  was  no  delay  in  removing 
so  idle  a  misunderstanding.  The  attack  itself  is  printed 
as  the  '  Suppressed  Letter  to  the  Eight  Hon.  George 
Canning,'  1818,  and  went  through  several  editions.  Mr. 
Parkes  and  Lady  Francis  attributed  it  to  Mr.  Hobhouse, 
the  present  Lord  Broughton.  Francis  was  in  truth  partial 
to  Canning,  from  whom  he  had  received  kindnesses,  in 
the  matter  of  Captain  Thicknesse  among  others  ;  and,  pos- 
sibly, he  foresaw  also  in  him  the  future  Liberal  leader. 

The  last  years  of  Francis  were  spent  in  much  suffering 
under  a  very  painful  disorder  :  inflammation  of  the  pros- 
trate gland.  But,  notwithstanding  this  visitation,  he  re- 
mained singularly  free  from  the  ordinary  infirmities  of 
old  age.  His  bodily  strength  seemed  but  little  abated, 
the  power  of  his  understanding  almost  as  fresh  as  ever, 
his  interest  in  the  affairs  of  the  world  around  him  as 
great.  Lady  Francis  has  left  the  following  memoranda 
respecting  this  iinal  portion  of  his  long  career  : — 

'  Though  his  house  in  St.  James's  Street  was  a  very 
handsome  one,  he  saw  very  little  of  it  but  when  he  had 
company,  except  the  three  rooms  on  the  ground  floor, 
peculiarly  his ;  and  from  them  he  banished  all  trouble- 
some finery.  Artificial  wants  destroy  that  independence 
which  was  the  governing  passion  of  his  soul.  Perfect 
liberty  and  independence  were  as  necessary  to  him  as  air 
and  light :  and  the  idea  of  death  was  more  welcome  to  him 
than  the  thought  of  ever  being  in  the  power  of  anyone. 
He  dreaded  to  be  subjected  to  the  infirmities  of  age ; 
and  he  never  was.     His  spirit  and  habits  were  manly  to 


1818]  OLD   AGE.  411 

the  last,  and  lie  would  not  allow  any  increase  to  his 
indulgences.  The  only  thing  he  was  personally  anxious 
about  in  his  apartment  was  to  have  plenty  of  the  purest 
water.  It  was  his  first  enquiry  at  every  place,  and  he 
would  not  have  lived  at  the  most  beautiful  place  -where 
this  was  wanting.  Though  perfectly  negligent  of  dress, 
and  wearing  his  clothes  till  he  became  attached  to  them 
from  custom,  and  they  truly  deserved  the  name  of  habits, 
he  never  failed,  till  within  a  few  days  before  his  death,  of 
being  washed  from  head  to  foot  every  day  with  the 
coldest  water,  and  was  perpetually  rinsing  his  mouth  with 
the  same.  Whether,  like  Alexander,  the  heat  of  his  nature 
had  scorched  out  all  tendency  to  humour,  it  is  certain 
tliere  never  was  a  purer  habit  of  body  to  the  last  moment 
of  his  existence.  As  he  lay  on  his  death  bed,  his  breath 
was  as  sweet  as  a  child's.  He  never  had  the  least  visible 
transpiration  ;  and  as  if  the  incorruptibility  of  his  mind 
had  extended  to  his  body,  eight  days  after  his  death, 
when  he  was  finally  deposited  in  his  last  mansion,  no 
visible  change  had  taken  place.  He  had  the  happiness  of 
his  last  prayers  being  listened  to,  and  of  never  becoming 
a  painful  object  to  those  who  loved  him.  He  said  his 
father  had  dragged  on  existence  for  some  years,  sensible 
only  of  his  own  decay.  But  Sir  Philip  preserved  not 
only  his  vigorous  and  brilliant  faculties  but  the  means  of 
expressing  them  to  the  last.  He  may  be  said  never  to 
have  become  old.  His  eyes,  ears,  voice,  and  articulation, 
never  bore  the  least  stamp  of  age.  He  was  as  quick  in 
conception  and  retort  the  week  before  his  death  as  ever. 
It  was  probably  owing  to  his  temperance  and  moderation 
in  his  indulgences,  and  hardy  habits,  that,  notwithstanding 
the  painful  disorder  which  afflicted  him,  he  preserved 
such  extraordinary  faculties  of  mind  and  body.' 

It  was  the  belief  of  Lady  Francis  that  his  personal  feel- 


412  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

ings  had  softened,  and  that  he  regretted  sincerely  the 
rancorous  violence  in  which  he  had  indulged  so  largely. 
It  may  be  feared  that  this  was  only  the  delusion  of  an 
affectionate  heart.  The  reader,  at  all  events,  can  judge 
for  himself,  from  the  tone  of  his  last  manuscript  writings, 
contained  in  the  Appendix  to  this  volume  :  his  '  Character 
of  Fox,'  and  '  Characteristics  of  the  Kings  of  England.' 
She  flattered  herself,  likewise,  that  his  religious  opinions 
had  undergone  a  change,  and  that  he  had  become  more 
and  more  inclined  in  his  later  years  to  embrace  the 
tenets  of  revelation.  And  Mr.  Parkes — whose  opinion 
is  weU  worth  attending  to  on  character  which  he  had 
so  thoroughly  studied — ^has  left  a  memorandum,  which 
I  have  subjoined  to  this  chapter,  in  which  a  similar 
view  is  to  a  certain  extent  taken.  I  must  leave  the  sub- 
ject to  the  considerate  judgment  of  those  who  may  take 
an  interest  in  it.  Undoubtedly  PhiHp  Prancis  grew  up 
under  the  most  absolutely  unfavourable  circumstances, 
not  only  for  his  reception  of  this  or  that  dogma,  but  for 
the  cultivation  of  the  religious  element  of  his  mind,  which 
ingenuity  could  conceive.  His  father  was  a  clergyman,  a 
loose  liver,  and  a  freethinker :  one  whose  life  under  the 
cloth,  and  in  the  enjoyment  of  church  preferment,  was  a 
mere  recognised  hypocrisy.  But  this  father  had  abilities, 
and  learning,  sufiicient  to  influence  strongly  the  thoughts 
and  excite  the  admiration,  of  a  clever  and  impressible  son. 
And,  moreover,  his  exceeding  afiection  for  that  son,  and 
desire  to  associate  himself  as  closely  as  possible  with  his 
mental  training,  increased  only  too  largely  his  power  over 
the  pupil.  Francis's  early  impressions  on  religious  sub- 
jects were  therefore  altogether  of  the  school  of  Gibbon  : 
who  was,  in  truth,  his  fellow-pupil,  under  his  father.  His 
early  works  are  full  of  the  ordinary  language  of  contempt 
for  priestcraft  and  priests.     As  he  grew  older,  this  phase 


1818]  LAST  ILLNESS  AND  DEATH.  413 

of  thought  to  a  certain  extent  changed  :  his  sarcastic  and 
acute  spirit  seems  to  have  been  revolted  ahke  by  the 
vulgar  commonplaces  of  those  vs^ho,  in  his  day,  argued 
against  revelation,  and  by  the  decorous  trivialities  of  those 
who  supported  it.  At  all  events,  he  fully  persuaded  him- 
self that  the  religion  of  the  Church  of  England  was  the 
true  faith  of  an  Englishman,  such  as  he  conceived  the  cha- 
racter, and  especially  of  a  gentleman.  And  it  may  well  be 
true,  as  Lady  Francis  thought,  that  the  internal  evidence 
of  Christianity,  the  beauty  and  simplicity  of  its  doctrines, 
made  some  way  in  a  heart  thoroughly  seared  against  all 
the  glitter  and  glow  of  false  enthusiasm,  and  wearied 
with  the  hoUowness  of  mere  negative  reasoning.  But 
beyond  this  it  is  vain  to  speculate,  from  such  materials 
as  he  has  left  us. 

The  last  scene  of  all  shall  be  described  (with  much 
omission)  in  the  language  of  a  letter  of  Lady  Francis, 
written  only  a  few  days  after  his  death,  which  took  place 
on  December  23,  1818. 

January  8,  1819. 
Dear  Sir, —  ...  I  received  His  last  breath  ;  I  was  alone  with  him 
in  his  last  moments.  On  Saturday  night,  I  sat  up  alone  with  him,  and 
in  the  middle  of  the  night  read  the  newspapers  and  some  letters  to 
him,  sitting  upon  his  bed.  On  Sunday  night,  not  being  at  all  aware 
of  his  danger,  as  we  were  assured  from  his  medical  attendant  that  he 
would  recover  this  attack,  and  being  much  fatigued,  I  left  him  for  some 
hours,  but  returned  to  his  bedside  on  Monday  morning  at  seven 
o'clock,  which  I  never  quitted  agaiu  for  a  minute  till  he  was  no 
more  ;  and  never  was  a  death  so  worthy  of  such  a  life  :  his  spirits 
composed,  tranquil,  and  even  cheerful ;  his  mind  apparently  as  strong 
as  ever,  and  his  perception  as  quick.  Though  he  evidently  feared  dis- 
turbing himself  by  talking,  he  expressed  his  gratitude  for  all  my 
little  attentions  and  cares  during  that  sad  and  solemn,  yet,  upon 
reflection,  consolatory,  night,  in  the  most  touching  manner.  I  was  not 
aware  at  the  time,  though  I  now  am,  that  he  knew  how  short  his 
time  was.  He  showed  the  greatest  anxiety  that  I  should  not  leave 
him  a  moment,  no  doubt  anticipating  my  future  regrets  had  I  done 
so,  which  I  often  assured  him  I  would  not ;  but  he  never  expressed 


414  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

the  least  fear  or  anxiety  on  any  other  subject.  Towards  the  morning 
he  was  lulled  into  a  sweet  trance,  from  which  he  revived,  and  spoke 
to  me,  and  took  some  refreshment.  About  ten  in  the  morning,  he  fell 
by  degrees  into  a  deep  sleep  ;  his  breath  was  free,  his  cough  gone, 
his  pulse  good.  It  had  lasted  four  hours,  and  I  was  flattering 
myself  with  the  hopes  of  his  waking  much  restored  ;  Mrs.  Cholmon- 
deley  had  just  left  me,  when  on  a  sudden  the  breathing  I  had  been 
listuning  to  so  contentedly,  being  easier,  stopped.  I  thought  he  had 
awoke,  and  undrew  the  curtain,  hung  over  him,  and  met  his  last 
breath ;  not  a,  sigh,  not  a  motion,  not  a  change  of  countenance. 
Heart,  pulses,  and  breath  stopped  at  once  without  an  effort.  How 
blessed !  how  merciful ! 

His  will,  which  was  examined  by  Mr.  Parkes,  bears 
date  April  8,  1818.  '  It  is  written  on  one  small  folio 
sheet,  and  is  apparently  his  own  terse  and  clear  com- 
position. It  variously  devises  and  bequeaths  his  real  and 
personal  estate,  chiefly  to  his  son,  grandson,  and  daugh- 
ters,' with  prior  life  interest  to  his  wife,  but  limited  as  to 
part  to  her  widowhood.  '  All  his  books  and  papers  he 
bequeaths  to  his  son,  but  they  are  to  remain  at  the  house 
in  St.  James's  Square.'  This  curious  and  somewhat  com- 
plicated arrangement  led  afterwards,  as  mentioned  in  the 
Preface,  to  some  family  disputes.  The  disposal  of  his  own 
body  is  ordered  in  one  of  his  own  fierce  sentences.  '  Of 
all  human  follies,  posthumous  vanity  seems  to  me  the 
silliest.  I  therefore  positively  order  that  I  may  be  buried 
as  privately  as  possible,  and  at  the  least  possible  expense.' 
This  direction  was  complied  with  by  his  burial  at  Mort- 
lake  in  the  same  grave  with  the  remains  of  his  much  loved 
daughter  Elizabeth. 


I  have  endeavoured,  in  these  pages,  to  do  justice,  as  far  as 
the  papers  placed  in  my  charge  enabled  me,  to  a  remark- 
able and  as  yet  little  known  personage ;  whose  destiny, 
probably  an  unique  one,  willed  it  that,  after  a  long  and  active 


1818]  CHARACTER.  415 

political  career,  his  posthumous  fame  should  almost  wholly 
rest  on  a  few  anonymous  compositions  which  appeared  in 
his  youth  :  compositions  of  which  he  never  assumed  the 
authorship,  but  carefully  repudiated  it ;  compositions  of 
which  the  sinister  renown  weighed  upon  him  through  life 
as  a  secret  burden.  But  my  aim  has  been  to  let  his  charac- 
ter develop  itself  through  his  own  written  remains  and  the 
letters  of  his  friends,  with  only  such  admixture  of  com- 
mentary of  my  own  as  seemed  indispensable.  Nor  will 
I  now  detain  the  reader  over  any  elaborate  summing  up 
of  what  these  pages  will  have  taught  him,  if  he  read  them 
with  the  same  eyes  as  myself.  To  perform  this  would  be  a 
difficult  task,  in  some  respects  a  painful,  in  others  a  pleasing 
one.  For  assuredly  there  never  was  a  character  in  which 
light  and  darkness  were  more  strongly  contrasted.  The 
deeper  shades  of  it  are  brought  out  only  too  powerfully 
by  his  own  revelations  of  his  conduct  and  motives.  With 
the  vindictive  and  rancorous  quality  of  his  animosities,  the 
world  are  already  pretty  well  acquainted  ;  not  so  well,  per- 
haps, with  that  unhappy  nature  which  made  him  quarrel 
with  one  friend  and  benefactor  after  another,  and  leave 
on  record  the  most  cutting  memorials  of  his  displeasure 
against  them.  I  have  felt  at  times,  when  falling  in  with 
these  productions  of  perverse  malevolence,  as  if  it  Avas  a 
violation  of  what  is  due  to  the  dead  to  publish  them  ;  but, 
in  point  of  fact,  many  of  the  documents  which  contain 
them  were  evidently  intended  by  himself  for  posthumous, 
if  not  earlier,  publicity.  Setting  aside  altogether  the  sins  of 
which  Junius  was  guilty  in  this  respect,  those  perpetrated 
in  the  unmasked  person  of  Francis  were  sufficient  to  con- 
stitute a  heavy  indictment  against  him.  One  friend, 
supporter,  patron,  and  colleague,  after  another — Kinnoul, 
Chatham,  Eobert  Wood,  Calcraft,  D'Oyly,  Clavering, 
Fowke,  Coote,  Fox,  the  Prince  of  Wales — those  who  had 


416  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.  [1818 

wished  well  to  him,  defended  him,  showered  benefits  on 
him — appear  at  last,  in  his  written  records,  branded  with 
some  unfriendly  or  contemptuous  notice,  some  insinuated 
or  pronounced  aspersion,  ungrateful  at  best,  but  treach- 
erous also,  if,  as  has  been  already  conjectured,  he  meant 
those  records  to  be  known  some  day  to  the  world.  From 
such  displays  of  character  as  these — and  it  is  of  no  use  for 
the  honest  biographer  to  attempt  to  disguise  them — the  ob- 
server shrinks  with  natural  aversion.  Nor  can  we  reconcile 
ourselves  easily  to  another  serious,  though  minor,  fault — 
the  plotter-hke  habit  of  thought  and  conduct  which  he 
learnt  from  years  of  anonymous  use  of  the  press  for  personal 
objects,  and  which  rendered  him  an  object  of  suspicion 
even  among  those  who  were  very  imperfectly  acquainted 
with  the  secrets  of  his  early  life.  So  far  it  is  difficult  to 
judge  him  too  severely.  But,  look  at  him  from  another 
point  of  view,  and  we  discover  in  him  a  man  in  whose  do- 
mestic character  great  faults  were  redeemed,  as  far  as  they 
could  be,  by  strong  and  disinterested  affections  :  devoted  to 
his  father,  his  children,  his  kindred,  and  deeply  loved  in 
return ;  fond  of  social  life,  and  grateful  in  the  acknow- 
ledgment of  social  friendliness  ;  not  only  capable  of  acts 
of  generosity,  but  thoughtful,  constant,  and  attentive  in  his 
kindnesses,  where  his  heart  prompted  him  to  bestow  them. 
And,  viewing  him  in  still  another  direction,  we  discern 
one  of  a  singularly  masculine  turn  of  mind  ;  one  in  whom 
an  absorbing  ambition  was  united,  as  far  as  it  ever  can  be, 
with  high-minded  thoughts  and  honourable  public  con- 
duct ;  honourable  in  all  respects,  except  where  the  fatal 
propensities  already  noticed  interfered  ;  a  lover  of  virtue ; 
a  thorough-going  hater  of  what  was  mean,  paltry,  and 
corrupt  in  others,  and  unstained  by  suspicion  of  the  like 
in  himself  And  in  political  life — find  what  fault  we  may 
with  this  or  that  portion  of  his  sentiments  or  conduct— he 


1818]  CHARACTER.  417 

emptatically,  a  patriot.  England  may  have  had  '  many  a 
worthier  son  than  he ; '  but  few,  perhaps,  who  have 
rendered  her  more  durable  service,  and  never  one  who 
loved  her  better. 


NOTE  I.   TO   CHAPTEK  IV. 

According  to  Lady  Francis,  her  husband's  choice  of  St. 
James's  Square  for  a  residence  was  partly  inspired  by  recol- 
lections of  his  early  visits  there  to  Lord  Chatham,  when  his 
amanuensis. 

His  manner  of  attending  there  was  to  come  early  in  the  morning 
to  Lord  C.'s  in  St.  James's  Square,  were  he  was  shown  into  the 
library,  and  found  his  breakfast  and  the  work  of  the  day  ;  and  I 
have  heard  him  say  that  he  was  so  happy  in  having  the  command 
of  the  books  unmolested  (for  sometimes  he  had  long  intervals  of 
leisure,  when  his  pen  was  not  required)  that  he  probably  from  those 
agreeable  remembrances  retained  all  his  hfe  a  partiality  for  St. 
James's  Square,  in  which,  as  soon  as  his  circumstances  permitted 
him,  he  bought  a  house. 

There  was  a  tinge  of  romance  in  Sir  Philip's  ambition,  and 
he  may  perhaps  have  found  some  gratification  in  the  idea  that 
he  was  living,  a  man  of  consequence,  in  the  stately  locality 
which  he  had  visited  in  youth  as  a  dependent.  His  may  have 
been  a  feeling  not  quite  unallied  to  that  which  induced  Hastings 
to  devote  years  of  exertion  to  the  purchase  of  Daylesford,  near 
which  he  had  grown  up  in  his  obscure  childhood. 


NOTE   IL   TO   CHAPTEE   IV.   p.    302. 

The  following  strange  account  of  the  death  and  character  of 
Francis'  Irish  cousin,  and  early  intimate.  Major  Baggs,  is  ex- 
tracted from  the  '  Grentleman's  Magazine'  for  1792  : — 

At  his  lodgings  in  Jermyn  Street,  in  Ms  seventieth  year,  Major 
Baggs,  well  known  and  long  distinguished  on  the  turf,  and  in  the 
annals  of  gaming.     His  death  was  occasioned  by  a  cold  that  he 
VOL.  II.  E  E 


418  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

caught  in  the  round-house,  when  he  and  many  others  were  carried 
thither  by  Justice  Hyde,  from  the  gaming  table  in  St.  James's 
Street.  ...  As  soon  as  he  had  got  the  rank  of  major,  he  retired  upon 
half-pay,  and  ever  after  devoted  himself  entirely  to  deep  play,  which 
he  pursued  with  an  eagerness  and  perseverance  beyond  example.  .  .  . 
He  once  won  17,000L  at  hazard,  by  throwing  on,  as  it  is  called, 
fourteen  successive  mains.  He  went  to  the  East  Indies  in  1780,  on 
a  gaming  speculation  ;  but  not  finding  it  answer,  he  returned  over- 
land. At  Grand  Cairo  he  narrowly  escaped  being  put  to  death,  by 
retreating  in  a  Turkish  dress  to  Smyrna.  .  .  .  He  is  supposed  to 
have  ruined  by  play  forty  persons.  At  one  time  of  hfe  he  was 
worth  more  than  100,0002.  He  had  fought  eleven  duels,  and  was 
allowed  to  be  very  skilful  with  the  sword.  He  was  a  man  of 
a  determined  mind,  great  penetration,  and  considerable  literature, 
and,  when  play  was  out  of  the  case,  could  be  an  agreeable  and  in- 
structive companion.  .  .  .  He  hved  at  Paris  several  years,  in  the 
greatest  splendour.  His  countenance  was  terrible,  though  his  ap- 
pearance and  manners  were  gentlemanlike.  While  he  Uved  at 
Avignon,  he  frequently  gave  splendid  suppers  to  the  Duke  and 
Duchess  of  Cumberland  and  their  friends.  He  went  to  Naples  at  the 
time  they  did,  and  got  introduced  to  the  king's  private  parties,  of 
whom  he  is  said  to  have  won  1,500^ 


MEMOEANDUM   BY   ME.   PAEKES   ON   THE    EE- 
LIGIOUS   OPINIONS   OF   FEANCIS. 

Francis  was  educated  by  a  parent  who  was  a  clergyman  of 
the  Establishment,  and  for  the  four  last  years  of  his  pupilage 
at  St.  Paul's  School.  Such  early  impressions  and  associations 
naturally  fixed  him  in  Protestantism,  and  he  conformed  to  the 
national  church  as  '  established  by  law.'  His  respect  for  the 
religion  of  his  country  is  evidenced  by  the  special  directions  he 
gave  Monsieur  Eibouville  as  regarded  the  religious  influence  of 
his  son.  But  throughout  his  entire  life,  his  own  individual  con- 
victions were  those  of  a  '  freethinker.'  His  mind  rested  more 
on  the  demonstrations  of  natural  religion  than  on  revelation. 
Such  was  also  his  reputation  among  his  confidential  and  learned 
friends.  In  general  conversation  on  the  subject,  he  was 
reserved,  and  never  obtruded  on  others  his  own  particular 
views.     He  v/as  of  opinion  that  the  deeper  mysteries  of  religion 


OPINIONS   ON  RELIGION.  410 

were  not  subjects  for  common  discussion  in  the  social  circle, 
and  that  all  minds  were  not  sufficiently  learnedly  or  philoso- 
phically educated  for  the  formation  of  opinions  of  any  worth 
on  the  more  difficult  and  profound  doctrines  and  dogmas  of 
theology.  He  early  read  the  works  of  Chillingworth,  Jeremy 
Taylor,  and  Butler;  and  from  them  he  doubtless  derived  a  large 
and  liberal  estimate  of  Christianity,  and  decided  opinions  on  the 
right  of  private  judgment.  But  the  following  confession  of  his 
religious  faith  to  his  second  wife,  near  the  close  of  his  life,  will 
truly  explain  his  ultimate  convictions,  and  in  his  own  words. 
Lady  Francis  had  observed  to  him  one  day  that  his  principles 
with  regard  to  religion  were  considered  to  be  '  free.'  Sir  Philip 
replied, 

I  have  more  real  religion  than  any  man  I  know.  I  do  not  pretend 
to  more  than  I  have,  and  so  mock  my  Creator.  There  are  many  points 
on  which  all  I  can  say  is,  J  do  not  hnoiv  ;  and  would  not  every 
sincere  man  say  the  same  ?  If  no  man  pretended  to  more  religion 
than  he  has,  what  he  has  would  have  more  effect  on  his  moral 
conduct.  A  consciousness  of  hypocrisy  degrades  the  whole  man, 
for  when  a  man  affects  religious  conviction  for  worldly  purposes  his 
honesty  is  soon  undermined,  and  thus  the  hypocrite  becomes  a 
rogue. 

On  another  occasion,  Lady  Francis  records,  that  Sir  Philip 
enlarged  on  the  same  subject  as  follows : — 

The  internal  evidence  of  the  Christian  religion  is  greater  than  the 
external.  In  the  matter  of  external  evidence,  other  religions  may 
compete  with  the  Christian ;  but  in  purity,  wisdom,  and  power  of 
cleansing  the  human  heart,  it  is  alike  original  and  supreme.  One 
of  its  great  characteristics  is  its  opposition  to  the  monster  vices  of 
humanity.  What  a  lesson  for  the  arrogant  and  proud  man  is  the 
constant  humility  and  gentleness  of  the  Saviour,  who  when  most  as- 
serting his  power  calls  himself  the  Son  of  Man  !  Surely  there  must 
be  some  mysterious  reason  for  this.  There  is  nothing  like  it  to  be 
found  in  the  founder  of  any  other  religion  on  earth.  Attempts  on 
the  part  of  the  clergy  to  explain  the  mysteries  of  their  faith  are 
highly  injudicious.  The  apostles  themselves  saw  through  a  glass 
darkly.  The  doctrines  of  Christ  were  eminently  of  the  practical 
kind.  He  prescribes  no  forms,  no  prayers  but  one ;  no  articles  of 
belief  except  the  divine  authority  for  his  mission.  The  Calvinistic 
Methodists   and  others   who  recommend  long  prayers,  and  make 


420  MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS. 

them  by  the  hour,  calling  those  who  principally  teach  Christian 
morals  Z7re- Christian,  are  anti- Christian  themselves,  for  they  not 
only  disobey  Christ  but  they  condemn  his  practice.  The  favourite 
dogma  that  good  works  must  follow  faith  is  also  contrary  not  only 
to  the  express  declaration  of  Christ  but  to  all  human  experience. 
He  says,  Let  a  man  do  the  work  that  I  command,  and  then  he  shall 
know  my  mission  is  from  above.     The  line — 

He  can't  be  wrong  whose  life  is  in  the  right, 

is  more  truly  gospel  language  than  all  the  Methodistical  books  ever 
written.  But  then  it  is  much  easier  to  cry '  Lord !  Lord !  '  than  to  do 
his  will.  It  is  pleasanter  to  talk  and  teach  and  dictate  than  to  prefer 
principle  to  interest — overcome  your  passions — look  out  for  the  op- 
pressed, the  poor,  and  the  miserable,  to  investigate  their  woes.  I 
detest  the  affectation  and  irreverence  of  men  who  have  always  Scrip- 
ture phrases  on  their  tongues,  have  a  dialect  of  their  own,  and  who 
make  as  much  clatter  and  display  of  their  religion  as  a  bully  does  of  his 
courage.  How  does  this  kind  of  conduct  dovetail  with  these  express 
commands,  '  Be  not  as  the  hypocrites  are,  of  a  sad  countenance  ;  ' 
'  When  thou  prayest,  go  into  thy  closet,  and  shut  the  door '  ?  Until 
these  new  lights  can  blot  out  these  and  many  other  Bible  passages, 
their  light  is  not  scriptural,  and  they  are  anything  but  Gospel 
Christians.  Mankind  is  ever  inclined  to  go  into  those  extremes 
which  the  Divine  wisdom  saw  was  not  good  for  them.  Every  church 
has  added  something  to  the  simplicity  of  Christianity,  thus  assuming 
itself  to  be  wiser  than  the  great  Founder  himself.  This  disregard  for 
the  most  obvious  and  imperative  of  Christian  principles  has  prevented 
their  diffnsion,  and  limited  their  effect  on  human  conduct. 

On  another  reference  by  Lady  Francis  to  his  sceptical  ideas 
on  Christianity,  Sir  Philip  said,  he  'might  regret  not  having 
given  more  time  to  the  study  of  the  religion  ;  but  that  he  had 
lived  in  the  world  and  for  the  world,  endeavouring  to  prevent 
some  evils  and  to  do  his  fellow-creatures  some  service.  What 
he  knew  of  religion  he  had  acquired  by  reading  the  Scriptures 
in  the  spirit  of  sincerity  and  with  a  desire  to  comprehend  their 
meaning;  he  took  their  obvious  sense  without  prejudice — as  far 
as  a  man  could  be  without  prejudice — for  he  had  no  systems  to 
found,  no  sects  to  defend.' 


APPENDIX. 


No.  I. 


SiE  Philip  Francis's  library  was  sold  by  auction  twenty 
years  ago.  Little  attention  seems  to  have  been  bestowed 
upon  the  contents  at  the  time ;  but,  fortunately,  large 
'lots,'  consisting  of  many  volumes  of  Tracts,  were  sold 
together.  These  volumes  of  Tracts,  extensively  annotated 
by  himself,  contain,  as  Mr.  Parkes  expresses  it,  much  of 
the  raw  material  of  Junius,  and  of  his  other  anonymous 
writings.  I  subjoin  a  memorandum  of  Mr.  Parkes  on 
the  contents  of  one  of  the  most  important  of  these  lots. 
— Editoe. 

'  This  is  a  MS.  Catalogue  of  the  Tracts  and  Pamphlets, 
&c.,  Lot  720,  in  the  Auction  Sale  Catalogue,  bought  by 
Mr.  Henry  Francis,  grandson  of  Sir  Philip. 

'  The  MS.  Index  was  made  by  his  father  or  by  him- 
self, and  was  lent  to  me  by  him — hence  my  first  know- 
ledge of  the  singular  contents. 

'  The  value  of  the  96  vols,  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  observed,  till  (the  entire  being  lent  to  me)  I  saw 
the  singular  proofs  of  the  identity  of  Francis  with  Junius 
to  be  extracted  from  them.  The  early  vols,  were  in  fact 
the  material  of  the  Junius  Letters. 

'  Joseph  Paekes.' 


422  APPENDIX. 

TEACTS. 
Vol.  I. 

PAOE3 

120     Sheridan's  Satires  of  Persius. 

152     Collection  of  Letters  of  Atticus,   Lucius,   Junius,   &c. 

Corrected,  &c.     1769. 
288     Essay  on  Writings  of  Shakspeare. 

Vol.  II. 

22  Speech  of  E.  Peel  on  Union  with  Ireland.     1799. 

22  Erskine  on  the  Volunteer  Act.     1804. 

127  On  relative  sit°  of  Pitt  and  Addington.     1804. 

30  Gentz.     On  Present  State  of  Europe.     1806. 

46  War  as  it  is  and  War  as  it  sh*  be.    

22  Home  Tooke.     Letter  on  Sir  F.  Burdett.     1807. 

37 Warning  respc^  d°.     

21  Sir  P.  Francis.     Letter  on  E.  I.  C.     1807. 

219  Paull's  refutation  of  Tooke,  d°.    Do.  Sir  F.  Burdett. 

24  A  new  System  of  Politics,  by  '  W.  Dubois,  aide  par .' 

Vol.  III. 

47  Iniquity  of  Banking.     1797. 

Tom  Paine.     Letter  to  Washington.     With  Note. 

138     T.  Erskine.     On  the  War  with    France.     With 

Notes. 
Burke  to  D.  of  Portland.      Notes,  &c.,  and  Ex- 


tracts, &c. 


Vol.  IV. 


32  Washington.     Letter  to  People.     1796. 

38  T.  Paine.     Agrarian  Justice.     1797. 

20  Playfair.     On  the  B.  of  England.     1797. 

24  E.  of  Oxford.  Speech,  &c.  on  the  Motion  for  Peace.    1 797. 

87  Morgan.     On  Finance.     1797.     With  Notes,  &c. 

70  Eeport  of  Irish  Sec'  Com'  in  Commons.     1797. 

6 — in  Lords.     1797. 

C.  J.  Fox.     Speecli  on  Eeform.     1797. 

Vol.  V. 
38     Parker's  Trial.     1797. 
23     Erskine  and  Kid,  &c.     Tom  Payne.     1797. 


APPENDIX.  4iS 

PAGES 

46  Grattan.     Address  to  Constituents.     1797.  Notes. 

15  Wyvill  with  Pitt.     P.  11.     —97. 

31  Narrative  of  Proceedings  at  a  Eevol'^  Soc^.  — 97. 
8 at  Nottingham. 

15     Petition,  &c.  of  do.     —97. 

24     Speeches  of  Erskine,   Fox,   &c.,  on   Anniversary  of  F.'s 

Election.     —97. 
81     Baring.     On  Currency.     Notes. 
17     E.  ofMoira.     On  Ireland. 
24     W.  Pitt.     On  Negociations  at  Lisle. 

22  C.  J.  Fox.     On  Finance.     Rote. 
J.  Nicholls.     On  Finance.     1798. 
C.  J.  Fox.     On  Finance.     1798. 
W.  Pitt.     On  do.     ■ 

30     A  Collection  of  Addresses,  &c.,  on  French  Invasion. 

Vol.  VI. 

Mr.  Francis.     Speech  on  Supply.     1803. 
200     Burke.     3  Mem'  on  French  Affairs.     1793.     Note  in  the 
Appendix. 
Burke.      2  Letters  on  the  Conduct  of  our  Dom"  Parties, 
&c.  1793.     &c.     &c.     &c. 
Notes.     Notes. 

Vol.  VII. 

Notes,  &c.  on  Ireland.     1798. 

32  Perry.     Origin  of  Grovernment.     1797. 

23  Letter  to  Seceders.     1797. 

162     Harper.     Observations.     1797.     Notes.     Amer". 
117     Monroe's  View,  &c.     Do.     1794. 

L'^  Moira's  Letter,  &c.     1798.    On  a  Change  of  Ministry. 
48     L^  Lauderdale.     On  Finance.     1798. 

BP  Watson.     Address  to  People.     1798.     Notes. 
144     Camille  Jordan.     A  ses  Commetta,ns.     1798.     Note. 

E.  Moira.     On  Ireland.     1798. 
46     E.  Clare.     On  do.     1798.     Notes. 

BP  of  Down,  &c.     Cath.  Eman.     Notes. 

Vol.  VIII. 

51     Wakefield's  Eeply  to  Watson.     1798. 

24  D.  of  Bedford.     Spcesh.     1798. 


424  APPENDIX. 

PAGES 

47  Grifford.     Address  to  Loyal  Assoc"^     1798.     Notes. 

73  Hooper.     Speech,  America.     1798. 

78  OfBc'  Corresp"  of  American  Negoti"*  at  Paris. 

25  Talleyrand.     Defence,  America.     1798. 

35  Letters  to  Priestley.     Found  and  published  by  Grovern- 

ment.     1798. 

29  An  Account  of  Riot  in  Vienna,  &c.     Bemad otte.      1798. 

133  Eeport  Commons,  &c.  Prisoners  of  War.     1798. 

Vol.  IX. 

100     P.Francis.     Answer  to  Impey.     1788. 

Off'  Corresp'  on  Malmesbury's  Negot"  for  Peace.     1797. 
24     The  Question.     Notes. 
28     Abstract  of  Assess'd  Tax  Bill.     1798. 

33     Wakefield.     Letter  to  Scott.     

Conduite  du  Grouvernement    Franpais     envers    Geneve. 
1798.     Notes.     On  Title,  &c. 
68     J.  Mackintosh.    On  the  Law  of  Nature  and  Nations.    1799. 

Notes. 
95     W.  Pitt.     Speech  on  Union.     1799. 
Notes  on  do. 

Vol.  X. 

90    Eeport  of  Comm.  of  Secret  Commons.     1799.     It^  Reb\ 
F.  Baring.     Obser°*  on  a  Publica"  of  W.  Boyd.    Finance. 
Notes. 
146     The  Concordat,  and  Speech  of  Portalis.     1802.     Notes. 
P.  141,  &c.  &c. 
Organisation  des  Cultes.     1802.     Notes. 
Fox.     Sketch  of  D.  of  Bedford.     1802. 
76     List  of  M.  P.'s.     1802. 

Addresses  of  Fox,  Burdett,  Burke,  Astley,  Coke. 
18     L'l  Moira.     Speech,  &c.     1803. 

Vol.  XL 

Vol.  XIL 
176     Eolliad.     P' 2. 
33     On  the  Lichen  Islandicus.     1803. 
38     Narrative,  &c.  Buenos  Ayres.     1807. 


APPENDIX.  425 

PAGES 

15     Holford.     On  Clergy  in  West  Ind.     1807. 
135     Eoscoe.     Consid°=  on  War.     1808. 

23  Holford.     2°'^  Ed.  &c.  &c.  W.  I.     1808. 

15  Whitbread.     Letter  to  L^  Holland   on   Spain.       1808. 

Notes. 

32  Vaughan.     On  Siege  of  Zaragoza.     1809. 

46  Wharton.     Eemarks  on  Edin^  Eev.     1809. 

45  Windliam.     Speech  on  Purity  of  El ec".     1810. 

14  Vansittart.     Speech  on  Finance.     1809. 

52  Adam.     On  Conduct  of  D.  of  Y.     1809. 

48  Narrative.     2""^  Siege  of  Zaragoza.     1809. 

Vol.  XIII. 

On  American  Taxation.     1765. 

Charters.     New  England.     ■ 

On  behalf  of  Colonists.     

On  Adminis"  of  Colonies,  &c.     1766. 
Letters  (to  M.  of  Eockingham  ?).     1765. 
Political  Debates.     Paris.     1766. 

Answer  to  Pitt.     

La  Difference  du  Patriotisme  chez  les  Franfais  et  ehez  les 
Anglais.     

Vol.  XIV. 

Conduct  of  late  Admin".     1767. 
Controversy  bet"  G.  B.  &  Colonies.     1769. 
Eight  of  G.  B.  to  tax  Colonies.       1768. 
Eeasons  for  augmenting  Army.     1768. 
Eemarks  on  Eiot  Act.     

Vol.  XV. 

133  Mem»  of  Eevol"'  in  Bengal.     1760. 

55  Miscellanies  by  Swift.     1734. 

56  Proceedings  in  Douglas  Cause.     1767. 
27  &  Eemarks  on  D°.     

24  Letter  to  Propriet"  of  E.  I.  Stock.     1769. 

116     Estimate  of  Manners,  &<=  of  French,  by  Helvetius.   1 767. 
26     Thoughts  on  causes  of  high  price  of  provisions.     1767. 
190     Letter  from  Eousseau  to  D'Alembert.     1759. 


43G  APPENDIX. 


Vol.  XVI. 


36  Letter  to  D.  of  Grafton.    Wilkes.     1767. 

45  Letters  to  Wilkes,  &".     1767. 

48  Merits  of  Administ"  (L*  Eockingham).     1765. 

52  Case  of  D.  of  Portland.     1768. 

44  Eeply  to  D°.     

50  Memoirs  of  Seraglio,  &°  (Lord  Baltimore).     1768. 

28  A  Letter  to  Lord  B.  (Baltimore).     

36  Lucas.     Address  to  (L*  M.  of  Dublin).     

56  Strictures  upon  Modern  Simony.     1767. 
An  Address.     On  the  Succession.     1739. 

Vol.  XVII. 

100  Letter  concerning  Libels,  &".     1764. 

43  Draper.    Ans''  to  Spanish  Arguments.    Manilla  Q".    

316  An  account  of  Duchess  of  Marlborough.     1742. 

12  Observ"'  on  a  Pamphlet.     Henry  Legge. 

Vol.  XVIII. 

55  Party  Spirit  in  Time  of  Publick  Danger.     1756. 
110     Eemarks  on  Limits  of  Acadia.     

31  Importance  of  Friendship  of  Indians.     1751. 

58  Interest  of  Gr.  B.  as  to  Colonies.     1760. 

60  Proposal  for  Union  of  G.  B.  &  Ireland,  by  D""  Francis. 

1751. 

31  A  letter  to  C.-in-Chief  in  Canada.     1760. 

56  A  letter  to  two  great  men  on  prospect  of  peace.     1760. 
64  Eemarks  on  D°.     • 

Vol.  XIX. 

98  Monckton's  Court  Martial.     1764. 

38  Letter  to  Common  Council.     

41  2>">  D°-     

43  Address  on  dismission  of  Gen^  Off-     

47  Counter  D"  on  D".     

38  Defence  of  Union.     Gen'  Warrants.     

Vol.  XX. 
6  on  American  matters. 


PAGES 


APPENDIX.  427 

Vol.  XXI. 


75     An  Essay  on  .  Constitution  of  Eng*.     1765. 
37     The  Constit"  asserted  &  vindic-^.     1763. 
114     Eegulations  concerning  .  Colonies.     1765. 

Critical  Eeview.     Jan^  1765. 

Monthly  Review  for 

Causes  of  Consumption.     1764. 

Vol.  XXII. 

140     A  Speech  on  behalf  of  .  Constit"  (by  L*  Mansfield).   Note 
1767. 

48     On  the  Portuguese  Trade.     

127     Memorials  of  Consul  at  Lisbon.     1766. 
A  letter  to  '  Will  Chatem.'     1 766. 
95     A  short  view  of  Politi'  life  of  a  Commoner  (L'^   Chat- 
ham).      

35     A  vindication  of  .  late  Great  C r.     

Vol.  XXIII. 

51     On  the  death  of  Clarke.     1769. 

68     Appendix  to  present  state  of  nation.     

62     Eemarks  on  D°.     


66     On  Eatiocination,  ag*  Hume. 

47  A  Vindication  of  D.  of  Grrafton  ag*  Junius. 

64     Interesting  Letters  selected  from  Wilkes,  Home,  Beck- 
ford,  Junius.     

48  An  Address  to  Junius.     


49     Consid"'  on  proceeding  by  Information,  &^     1768. 

Letter  to  L"*  Shelburne  on  Corsica,  &".     1768. 
25     Do.  S.  Vavgkan.     1769. 
40     Musgrave.     Eeply  to  D'Eon.     1769. 
60     Priestley.     Eemarks  on  Blackstone.     1769. 
28     Blackstone.     Eeply  to  Priestley.     

Vol.  XXIV. 

3  Pamphlets  concerning  Wilkefl,      1769. 
Fearne.     Answ''  to  Junius.     1770. 
An  Appeal  concert  G.  Clarke.     1769. 
3  —  concerning  Wilkes.     1769. 


428  APigSNDIX. 

Vol.  XXVI. 

PAGES 

Letter  to  Hillsboro'  from  Gage.     1769. 

Eeflection  on  Gover'  of  Indostan.     1758.     Printed  1770. 

Vol.  XXVII. 

London  Museum.   Jan.  1770.    Contain*  article  on  Junius. 

Corrected. 
London  Museum.     Feb.  1770. 

March  1770. 

Oxford  Mag:  for  April  1770. 

Letter  from  Junius. 

London  Museum  for  April  1770. 

Remarks.  P-  256.  Junius. 
London  Museum  for  June  1770. 
A  letter  to  D"-  Johnson.     1770. 

to  D"-  Blackstone.     1770. 

The  False  Alarm.     1770. 
In  re  S.  Vaughan.     1770. 

Vol.  XXVIII. 

198     Another  L'  to  Almon  on  Libel,     1770. 

A  Postscript  &  2°^  Posts*^     

Letter  to  Jurors.     1771. 
On  Press  Warrants.     1770. 
Morris'  Letter  to  Aston.     1770. 
Genuine  Trial.     Onslow  &  Home.     


London  Mag.    Miller's  Trial  for  printing  Junius. 
November. 

Vol.  XXIX. 

Price  on  Nat'  Debt.     1772. 

2  Speeches  of  E.  of  Hardwicke.     1770. 

Trial  of  J.  Almon  for  selling  Junius.     

An  Address  on  State  of  Legislature.     1771. 

On  the  Scottish  Peerage.     

Falkland's  Islands.     Johnson.     1771. 

Anglo-Lusitanic  discourse.     

Answer  to  Junius.     

Petition  of  Lee.     

On  the  Corn  trade.     1770. 
Letter  to  L.  Bute. 


APPENDIX.  429 

Vol.  XXX. 

G-reen.     Essay  on  diff*  Governments.     1793. 
Price.     On  reversionary  Payments.     1771. 

Vol.  XXXI. 

(Lawrence).     Letter  on  Hastings'  Impeachm*.     1790. 

With  Notes. 
Monthly  Review  for  July  1785. 
Tooke.     Letter  to  a  friend.     1787. 
Grattan.     Speech  in  J.  P.     1792. 

Paddy  Whack  to  John  Bull.     

Trial  of  George  Eose.     

Oldys.     Life  of  Paine.     1791. 
A  hint  on  Eussian  war.     ■ 


Thoughts  on  the  Canada  Bill.     

A  Letter  to  Almon,  &<=.     1765. 
Manual  of  the  Justice  of  Peace.     1774. 


Vol.  XXXII. 

Burke.     Speech  on  Eeform.     1 780. 

Speech  on  Colonies.     1775.     Corrected. 

Thoughts  on  Letter  of,  by  E.  of  Abingdon. 

Price  on  War  with  America.     1777.     Note,  end  of  vol. 
Proceedings  of  Sir  G.  Carleton  &  Livius.     1779. 

Vol.  XXXIII. 

Pax  in  Bello,  &<=.     1796. 

On  Monopoly,  &<=.     1795. 

John  Bull  to  Paddy  Whack.     1792. 

The  Baviad.     1791. 

Jachin  and  Boaz,  &".     1776. 

Eeligious  executions.     1796. 

Barry.     Letter  to  Annesley.     1795. 

On  London  Docks.     1796. 

Eowley.     Medical.     1795. 

Bradbury  on  Perspective. 

Fysh  Palmer,  Trial  of.     1793. 


430  APPENDIX. 


Vol.  XXXIV. 


Letter  from  Mr.  Francis  to  L'^  North.    1777.    (Published 

1793.) 
State  of  India,  in  2  Letters  from  Warren  Hastings  and  I 

from  Nabob  of  Oude.     1781. 
Paine's  Age  of  Reason.     1794. 
Treason  triumphant.     1795. 
Sir  B.  Boothby.     Observation  on  the  Appeal  from  the  new 

to  old  Whigs,  &  on  Paine's  Eights  of  Man.     1792. 

Vol.  XXXV. 

Fox.     Speech  on  L*  Malmesbury  Neg".     1797. 
Hint  on  the  alarm  of  war  with  Eussia. 
On  the  debt  of  the  Nation  compa'^  w*  revenue.     1781. 
Beddoes.     On  Finance.     1 797. 
Morgan  on  Finance.     1796. 
D"      Add'  Facts.     


Letter  to  Pitt  on  d°,  &=. 

Morgan.     Letter  on  Finance.     1797. 
Correspondence  of  Wyvill  &  Pitt.     Parti.     1796. 

Vol.  XXXVI. 

From  Almon's  Pari.  Eeg.  India.     1781. 
Fowke,  proceedings  relative  to.     1782. 
Controversy  &c.  Tanjour. 
Abstracts  of  papers  relative  to  d°. 
Letter  to  C.  Jenkinson.     1782. 

Letter  to  Author  of  Lucubrations. 

Lucubrations,  &"  on  Eeform. 

Vol.  XXXVII. 
8  Pamphlets  on  India.     1754-1777. 

Vol.  XXXVIIL 
6  Pamphlets  on  India.     1771-1777. 

Vol.  XXXIX. 
5  Pamphlets  on  India.     1773-1786. 


APPE 

;ndix. 

Vol. 

XL. 

1.  Tracts  on  India. 

2.  

3.  

4.  

5. 

6. 

7. 

Vol. 

XLI. 

6  Pamphlets.     India. 

Vol. 

XLII. 

11  Pamphlets.     India. 

431 


Vol.  XLIII. 
4  Tracts.     India.     No.  2. 

Vol.  XLIV. 

Pownall.     A  Memorial,  &c.     1783. 

Fox.     A  Speech. 

Speeches  of  Pitt  and  Fox  on  Elections.     1784. 

Popular  Topics  discussed.     India.     — — 

Silas  Deane.     Address  to  the  U.  States.     1784. 

Letters  on  the  Conduct  of  the  H.  of  C.     

Vol.  XLV. 

A  Letter  to  the  Minority.      (Sir  P.  was   one.)      Shop 

Tax.     1787. 
T.  B.  Rous.    Obser"'  on  Commutati"  Proj.      1786. 
Popular  Topics  discussed.     1784. 
Abstract  of  Corn  Acts.     1785. 
Letters  of  Dornford  on  '  Arrest.' 
Consider"^  on  '  Freight  of  Ships.'     India.     1786. 
'  Saddle  put  on  the  Right  horse.'     India.     1783. 
The  rights  of  Persons  born  abroad  of  British  Mothers. 

1784. 
Plowden.     Native  right  of  B''  Subjects.     1785. 


432  APPENDIX. 


Vol.  XLVI. 


Speech  of  Fr.  King  to  the  Notables,  with  discourse  of 

Mr.  Caloune.     1787. 

Eeponse  de  M.  Necker. 

A  free  Inquiry,  &c.     India.     1783. 

Un  petit  mot  de  reponse  a  M.  de  Calonne  .  par  Carra. 

1787. 
Le  Seducteur.     Comedie.     1783. 

Vol.  XL  VII. 

Peace  &  Eeform  v.  War  &  Corruption.     1794. 
Eennell.     Campaigns  of  1790  &  1791.     1792. 
Investig"  Native  Eights  of  Brit''  Subjects.     1784. 
Case  of  Proprietors  of  India  Annui^     1793. 

Vol.  XL VIII. 

Beaufoy.     Speech  on  Test  &  Corporation  Acts.     1787. 

Priestley.     Letter  to  Pitt  on  Toleration,  &c.     

Observation  on  case  of  Dissenters.     

An  Appeal  for  relief  of  D".     

Hoadley.     Eefutati"  of  Sherlock.    

Debates :  Methuen  treaty  and  India. 

Letters  from  Hastings,  Coote  &  Ben  well.     Note.     1786. 
An  Appeal  &c.     India.     1787. 

■ — —  in  behalf  of  Hastings.     1787. 

On  violation  of  constit'  rights. 

Vol.  XLIX. 

Political  Tracts  by  Sir  F.  Blake.     1795. 

Eemarks  concerning  the  Governm*  &c.  of  U.  S.  1784. 

Vol.  L. 

Letter  upon  State  of  Parties.     1797. 
Wakefield's  reply  to  Watson  (Bp).     1798. 
A  Letter  to  Cartwright,  by  Wyvill.      1801. 
Impartial  Eeflections.     India.     1788. 
Discours  adress6  a  un  certain  peuple. 


Correspondance  avec  le  Grouvernement  Franpais.     1801. 


APPENDIX.  433 

Tableau  de  Londres.     1784. 
Chronique  Nationale  — N"  32.     1792. 

Vol.  LI. 

Plowden.      Supplement  to  Invest"  of  Native  Rights  of 

British  Subjects.     1785. 
Eustace.     Letter  from  Paris.     1814. 
Speech  of  L.  Egremont  on  Court  Martials,  &c.     1815. 
7  Gobbets  Registers,  Debates,  &c. 

Vol.  LII. 

Investigation  of  Mr.  Eden's  Treaty.     1787. 

View  of  treaty  with  France.     Eden. 

Woollen  Draper's  Letter  on  Fri^  Treats.     1786. 
Thoughts  on  the  Westm""  Scrutiny. 
Speech  of  Flood  on  the  F.  Treaty.     1787. 

Blake..    The  True  Policy  of  G-.  B. 

Principles  of  B^^  Policy,  &c.    1787. 
Appeal  to  Landed  Interest. 

Vol.  LIIL 

Detail  of  Quarrel.     Cree  &  Macnamara.     1791. 
Supplement  to  Cooper  on  Slave  Trade.     1783. 
Sherlock  on  Corporation  &  Test  Acts.     1790. 

Hoadley.     Refutation  of  D°.      

Testimonies  in  favour  of  religious  liberty. 

Right  of  Dissenters  to  Toleration.     1789. 

Letter  to  Priestley.     Corporat.  &  Test  Acts.     1790. 

Vindica"^  of  Sacrami  Test.     1789. 

Minutes  of  Defence  of  W.  Hastings.     1786. 

Reasons  for  opposing  Wilberforce.     Slave  Trade.     1792. 

Vol.  LIV. 

r  Review  of  the  State  of  G-.  B.     1787. 

I  People's  Answer  to  D°.     • — - 

L  Retrospect  of  portraits  in  D". 

N.  System  of  Libelling  Illustrated.     ■ 

Letter  on  charge  ag'  L.  Thurlow. 

Essay  IV.  on  Public  Credit. 

VOL.  II.  F  F 


434  APPENDIX. 

Vol.  LV. 

Morgan  on  Finance.     1803. 

Address  on  Imprisonment.     1802. 

Plain  answer  to  Cursory  Eem''.     1803. 

Substance  of  Windhams  Speeches. 

Imitations. 

Grattan.     Speech  on  Tithes.     1788. 

O'Connor.     Letter  to  L.  Castlereagh.     1799. 

Correspond^"  of  L'''  Eedesdale  &  Fingall.     1803. 

Wyvill.     Secession  fr.  Pari'  vindicated.     1799. 

Observ™  on  Land  Tax.     1798. 

Indictments  ag'  Jones  &  Binns. 

A  Fair  Statement  on  Educ". 

Disposition  of  Patronage. 

Vincent.     Defence  of  Public  Educ".     1802. 

Erskine.     Opinion  on  Volunteer  Act.      1804. 

Attorney  Gen'.     Opin"  on  D°.     1803. 

Petition  for  Eeform  in  Pari*.      1793. 

Vol.  LVI. 

Claims  of  the  American  Loyalists.     1788. 
Clarkson  on  Slave  Trade.     1789. 
Comtroller-Genl's  reasons  ag'  Wilberforce.      1792. 

Foot.     Defence  of  the  Planters. 

Observations  on  Chev"'  de  la  Bintenaye.     Note.     1792. 

Vol.  LVII. 

Memorial  of  Proprieto"  of  E.  I.  Stock.     1788. 

Conduct  of  Commiss''^     India.     

Fiott.     Address  to  Propriet"  of  E.  I.  Stock.     1791. 
Dundas.     Letter  to  E.  I.  Company.     1801. 
Letter  to  Propriet"  of  E.  I.  Stock.     1802. 
2  Papers  on  India  matters.     1798. 

Vol.  LVIII. 

Tarleton.     Speech  on  Credit  Bill.     1810. 
Leach.     Speech  on  State  of  the  Nation.     1811. 
Thoughts  on  Proceedings  of  H.  of  C.       788. 
Barha/m.     Speech  on  Corn  Questn.      1808. 
D".     Considerations  on  D".     1810. 


APPENDIX.  435 

Wi/ndham.     Speech  on  '  Prevent"  of  Cruelty.' 

Adam.     Speech  on  Privilege. 

Grattan.     Speech  on  Catholic  Quest".     Note.     

E.  of  Donoughmore.     Speech  on  D".     

L*  Grey.     Speech  on  State  of  Nation. 

Eoscoe.     Observ°'  on  D°.     

Vol.  LIX. 

Insurrection  of  Negroes  in  S'  Domingo.     1792. 

Grisborne.     On  Slave  Trade.     

Morgan.     Theories  of  Price.     Finance.     

Trial  of  Thomas  Paine.     1793. 
Anderson  on  E.  I.  affairs.     1792. 
State  of  Grovernment  of  Quebec.     1 789. 

Vol.  LX. 

Fiott.     Letter  to  Propri"  of  E.  I.  Stock.     1793. 
Eights  of  Juries.     1785. 
Burke  on  E.  I.  Bill,     1783. 
Sir  G.  Elliott  on  D°.     1787. 

Letter  to  P.  Francis.     ■ 

Proceeding  of  Friends  of  the  People.     1792. 
Vindic"  of  Convent"  betn.  Gr.  B.  &  Eussia.     1801, 
Causes  of  rebellion  in  Ireland. 
Letters  on  Eeform.     1789. 

Vol.  LXI. 

Speech  of  L.  Egremont.     1815. 
Memoires  sur  les  Etats  Generaux.     1789. 
(Note  at  end  in  pencil.) 

Blanco  White.     El  EspanSl.     Vol.3.     1811. 
Debates  on  E.  L  Budget.     1806. 

Speech  of  Sir  P.  F. • 

Eemarks  on  the  Insurrection  at  Barbadoes.     Slave  Trade. 
1816. 

Vol.  LXII. 

Pursuits  of  Literature.     1797. 

Prinsep  on  Finance. 

Le  Mariage  des  Pretres.     1790. 
r  I-  'i 


436  APPENDIX. 

Proceedings  of  Friends  of  People.     1792. 
Eight  of  W.  I.  Merchants.     Note. 
Washington  &  Howe  Correspondence. 

Vol.  LXIII. 

Eeplique  de  Morande  a  Brissot.     1791. 
Brissot,     Discours  sur  les  emigrations.     — - — 

Vergniaud.     D°.    

Fauchet.     Sur  les  Pretres  non  assermentes. 

Essai  sur  les  Privileges.     1789. 

Sur  le  Mariage  des  Pretres.     

Sur  D".     1790. 

Jallet.     SurD".     1791. 

Desmoulins.     Discours  de.     

Observations  sur  les  Finances. 
Papers  on  Fr.  Kevol. 

Vol.  LXIV. 

Burke.     Letter  to  a  M.  of  the  Nat*  A.     1791. 

New  friend  on  an  old  subject.     Ag*  Fr.  Revol.     1791. 

Answer  to  Rights  of  Man.     1792. 

Thoughts  on  Political  Obedience.     Notes.     1793. 

Letter.     Francis  to  L.  North.     1793. 

Ld  ShefBeld  on  Slave  Trade.     1 791. 

Account  of  Tnsurrect"  of  S'  Domingo.     1791. 

Vol.  LXV. 

Fox.     Letter  to  Electors  of  Westminster.     1793. 

Speech  on  Reform.     1797. 

Erskine,  L«.     Liberty  of  Press.     1793. 

Brissot.     Rapport. 

Prinsep.     Letter  to  Propriet.  E.  I.  Stock. 

Strictures  on  D.  of  Richmond.     Eortif"-     • 

Consid"'  on  War.     

Plan  for  an  universal  Soc^. 

Calcutta  Mag.     1791. 

E.  I.  Revenues. 

Address  on  Reform.     1792. 

Hardie.     Taxation  on  Coals. 

Plumer.     Inconsistencies  of  Pitt.     1797. 


APPENDIX.  4.".7 

Crauford  on  Finance.     1797. 

Duty  of  Citizens.     1793. 

Meeting  of  London  Corre^  Soc.     1794. 

Vol  LXVI. 

On  Liberty  of  Press.     1793, 

On  Eeform. 

On  State  of  Representation.     1 794. 

Faulkener.     Hints  to  Electors.  1796. 

Flood.     On  Reform.     1790. 

Petition  for  D". 

Cartwright.     Letter  on  D".     1793. 

D.  of  Richmond  on  D°.     1792. 

A  Bill  &".     (Reform.) 

Miles  Popple.     On  Reform.     1793. 

Report  of  Debate  on  Reform.     

Speech  of  Francis. 
Meeting  of  London  Corresp^  Soc.     1791. 

Vol    LXVIL 

5  Pamphlets  on  .  Slave  Trade.     1 792. 

Thoughts  on  Pol'  Obedience.     1793. 

Proceeds^  of  friends  to  Liberty  of  .  Press.     1792. 

Address  to  People  of  England.     

On  Catholic  Emancip".     (By  Burke  the  younger.)    1790. 

Vol.  LXVIII. 

Thoughts  on  Marriages  founded  on  Adultery.     1800. 

Extracts  from  Speeches  on  P.  F. 

D.  of  Clarence  on  Divorce  Bill.     1800. 

Killing  no  Murder. 

Ballantine.     Parl^  Retrospect,     1801. 

Finesty.     Trial  of.     Libel.     1798. 

Review  of  Conduct  of  P.  of  W.     1797. 

Workman.     Ag*  Burke  on  F.  Revolution.     

Vol.  LXIX. 

3  Letters  to  Burke.     1796. 

Corresp®  of  Lushington  &  Hastings.     Note.     1795. 


438  APPENDIX. 

Thelwall.     On  Burke's  Letter.     Note.     1796. 

Copies  of  Treaties.     1793. 

Letter  to  L^  Carlisle  from  (L*  Fitzwilliam).     1795. 

D". 

D».  from  JJ-  C.  to  L«  F. 

Fox.     A  Speech  on  State  of  Parties.     1795. 

Burke.     Speech.     1794. 

Report  of  a  Bill.     On  New  Forest. 

Vol.  LXX. 

Burke.     Letter  on  his  Pension.     1796. 
Morgan.     On  Finance.     


D°.  

T.  Paine.     On  D".     

P.  Francis.     Speech  on  loan  of  1796. 

Fox.     Letter  to  Elecf^  of  Wesf.     1793. 

Burke.     Letters  on  a  Eeg'*^  Peace. 

Eeport  of  Proceed«»  of  Wesf  Elec^     Notes.     1796. 

Vol.  LXXI. 
Extracts  from  Speeches.     Dupl.     P.  F. 
Another  Investig".     Col.  Quentin,     1815. 
L'^  Granville.     Speech.     India.     1813. 
L'l  Kinnaird.     Letter.     1816. 
In  re  Queen  Caroline.     1816. 
A  Letter  to  L*  Eldon  on  D". 
Ireland  not  England.     Corrected. 
Motion  for  a  new  writ  for  S'  Mawes.     1817. 

Vol.  LXXIL 

Hartley.     Argum*  on  F.  Eevol.     1794. 

Belsham.     Eemarks  upon  Burke's  Letter.     1792. 

Letter  to  Paley.     1793. 

A  Dialogue.     'The  War.'     1794. 

Friends  of  the  People — Plan  for  Eeform.     1795. 

Page.     On  draining  Fens.     1794. 

A  refutation  of  Pitt's  assertion,  &c.     1794. 

Eemarks  relating  to  Trial  of  Hastings.     Note.     — 

Speech  of  Co^  Ironside.     India.     , 

Observ'  on  a  Letter  fr.  L.  Cornwallis.     1792. 
Eoscoe.     Letter  to  Pitt.     Notes.     1793. 


APPENDIX.  439 

Vol.  LXXIII. 

Correspondence  of  Wyvill  &  Pitt.     1797. 

Address  to  People  on  India. 

Letter  fr.  L'^  Fitzwilliam  to  L.  Carlisle.     1795. 

2nd  J)o_       

T.  Erskine.     View  of  the  War,     1797. 

Postscript  to  d°.     

Speeches  of  Erskine  on  Trial  of  T.  Paine.     1797. 
Fox.    Speech  on  the  Assessed  Taxes.     1798. 

Eeport  of  Debate  of  L.  Moira's  motion. 

List  of  M.P.=  who  voted  for  Asses''  Taxes.     ■ 

D.  of  Bedford.    Speech.     

Trial  of  O'Connor,  &".     

Vol.  LXXIV. 

T.  Paine.    Decline  and  Fall  of  Finance.     1796, 

Boyd.    Letter  to  Pitt.    Finance.     1811. 

Letters  on  Politics  of  France.     1788. 

Burdett,  F.    Plan  of  Reform.     1809. 

Capel  Lofft.    On  revival  of  cause  of  Eeform.     — — -     •      ^ 

Hagen.    Appeal  to  his  Majesty.     1810. 

G-.  Eose.     Observ"^  on  Finance.     

Suggestions  on  Cortes.     1809. 

Vol.  LXXV. 

Fox.    Speech  on  Eeform,     1797. 

Speech  on  moving  a  writ,  &".     1802. 

Windham.    Speech  on  the  Peace.    

L.  Grenville.    Speech  on  Affairs  with  Eussia.    

Windham,    Speech  on  Eeform,    1810. 

Vol.  LXXVI. 

C.  J.  Fox.   Letter  to  Elector,  &"=.    Notes  by  Adair.     1802. 

Windham.    Speech  on  Peace.     1801. 

E.  of  Moira.    Speech  on  Address,  &"=.    1803. 

'  Why  do  we  go  to  War  ? '     

Fox,    Speech  on  War.     

L"!  Minto.    Speech  on  War.     ■ 


440  APPENDIX. 

Vol.  LXXVII. 
Talleyrand.    Memoire  sur  relations,  &".     1805. 
L'i  Grenville.    Letter  to  L*  Fingall.     1810. 
L'*  Howick.    Speech  on  change  of  Arlm"-    1807. 

Letters  of  Scaevola.    P*  I.,  II.,  &  III.    

H.  Tooke.    "Warning  to  Westm"'.    

Letters.    

Observations  on  Debate  on  India.     1805. 

Conversation  between  Burke  &  Gibson.     1807. 

Letter  to  Fox.     1805. 

Canning.    Letter  to  Camden.    1809. 

On  danger  of  interfering  with  religion  of  natives  of  India. 

Vol.  LXXVIII. 

Bell.     Descrip"  of  Irish  Peasantry.     1804. 

Prison  Abuses  in  Ireland.     1810. 

O'Leary.    Address  on  Catholicism.     1800. 

Thoughts  on  Protest*  Assoc"  in  Ireland.     1815. 

McCarthy.     The  Veto  discussed  on  true  principle.    1810. 

Enquiry  into  distress  of  Ireland.     1810. 

Durnigau.    On  Catholic  Emancip.     

Vol.  LXXIX. 

Kandolph.    Speech.    1816.    With  Introduction. 

War  as  it  is,  &°.    

Eoscoe,    On  present  War.    1808. 
On     D«.     


Sketch  of  state  of  Ireland.     

Better  late  than  never,  &".     War.    1810. 

Vol,  LXXX. 

War  in  disguise.     1806. 

Dangers  of  Country.    1807. 

Spence.    Britain  independent  of  Commerce.     

Vol.  LXXXI. 

Eadical  cause  of  distress  in  W.  Indies.     (Spence.)    1817. 
Speech  of  Eandolph  (American)  &  Introd.    1 806. 

Talleyrand.    Mem.  of  relation  of  U.  S.  &  G.  B. 

Papers  relative  to  Negot"  with  France.    1 807. 


APPENDIX.  441 

Vol.  LXXXII. 

Letter  on  English  Gover'  by  an  American.     1810. 

Gr.  Eose.    Observ°'  on  Finance.    

Windham,    Speech  on  prevention  of  Cruelty.     

Eemarks  on  late  Commitments.    

C.  W.  W.  Wynn.    On  Privilege. 

Sir  S.  Eomilly.     On  Capital  punishment. 

Adair.    Speech,  &".    

Monthly  Mirror  for  March. 

Eeview  of  Sir  P.  F.  on  Finance.    


An  inquiry  into  distress  of  Ireland. 


Vol.  LXXXIII. 

Boyd,    Letter  to  Pitt.    Finance.     1811, 
On  the  Policy  of  U.  S.    1810. 

A  Letter  to  Houblon,    

On  the  Insurrection  in  India.    


Vol.  LXXXIV. 

Francis,    Speech  on  Eeform.    1793. 

■ —  on  Loan.    1796. 

D,  of  Bedford,  Speech.  1798, 
Pitt,  Speech  on  Union.  1799, 
Foster,    Speech  on    D° 


L"*  Clanwilliam,    Speech  on    D".     1800, 

Grattan.    Answer  to  D°. 

L^  Minto  on  Union,    1799. 

C.  J,  Fox,    Speech.    Notes,    1800, 

Vol,  LXXXV, 
On  the  Slave  Trade.    V,  1.    Missing, 

Vol.  LXXXVI. 
On  the  Slave  Trade.    Vol,  2, 

Vol,  LXXXVII, 
3  Pamphlets  on  Slave  Trade. 


442  APPENDIX. 

Vol.  LXXXVIII 
Francis  on  the  Slave  Trade.    1796. 

Vol.  LXXXIX. 
3  Law  Tracts. 

Vol.  XC. 

Eeformist's  answer  to  Edinboro'  Ev.     1810. 

L*  A.  Hamilton.    On  the  Administration.     1804. 

Keene.    Letter  to  M^Phun.     1806. 

L.  Clive.    Letter  to  E.  I.  0.    

Carnatic  Question  consid*     

Horrors  of  Slavery.     1805. 
L^Melvill.    Speech.    1805. 

Vol.  XCL  - 

Whitbread's  Speeches. 

Vol.  XCII. 
Francis's  Speeches. 

Vol.  XCIII. 
Tracts  in  1817, 
&  a  few  notes. 


Vol.  XCIV. 

Speeches,  &°.  of  Burke. 
Many  notes. 

Vol.  XCV.     4to. 
Tracts  for  years  1761-1763. 

Vol.  XCVL    4to. 
Tracts  relative  to  years  1769-1770. 


APPENDIX.  443 


No.  II. 

CHAELES  JAMES  FOX. 

This  MS.  was  preserved  among  the  papers  of  Sir  P. 
Prancis,  both  in  fair  and  draft  copy.  On  the  envelope  of 
the  latter  he  has  endorsed  the  following  memorandum  : — 

'This  introduction^  was  written  before  the  year  1807, 
with  only  a  few  alterations  and  additions  of  a  later  date. 
—P.  F.' 

Note. — The  original  corrections  in  the  draft  are  much 
less  than  usual  with  eminent  careful  writers.  The  '  al- 
terations '  and  '  additions  '  are  not  material :  the  former 
not  ten,  apparently  ;  the  latter,  of  no  great  moment. 
Mostly,  the  former  are  a  few  transpositions  of  subject- 
matter. — Joseph  Parkes. 

After  twenty  years  engaged  in  an  heroic  contest  for  right 
against  wrong,  overpowered  in  the  House  of  Commons,  but 
never  subdued,  with  King,  Lords,  and  Commons  against  him ; 
with  the  mass  of  the  nation  itself  ready  and  desirous  to  crush 
him,  and  after  the  waste  of  an  immense  fortune  by  his  brother, 
and  himself,  labouring  under  the  pains  and  privations  incident 
to  debt  and  poverty,  exercised  by  adversity  without  any  material 
political  failure  that  I  know  of,  except  the  coalition  with  Lord 
North,  then  restored  to  independence  and  freedom  by  a  sub- 
scription of  his  friends  and  party  of  seventy  thousand  pounds 
at  least, — I  lived  to  see  this  man  from  the  highest  elevation  to 
which  the  wisest  counsels  and,  excepting  continental  politics,  in 
which  personal  prudence  was  much  more  consulted  than  his 
judgment,  the  best  constitutional  principles,  and  a  persevering 

'  I  cannot  explain  what  the  author  meant  by  the  word  '  introduction.' — 
(Editor.) 


444  APPENDIX. 

as  well  as  powerful  exertion  of  all  his  ability  in  defence  of  them, 
could  raise  him,  after  so  great  a  portion  of  his  life  devoted  to 
a  service  not  only  unrewarded  but  without  exciting  public 
gratitude,  or  even  confidence, — I  lived  to  see  him  when  he 
wanted  nothing,  and  ought  to  have  no  interest  or  ambition  but, 
for  his  own  sake,  to  close  such  a  life  with  consistency  and 
honour,  drop  at  once,  luminous  to  the  last,  as  lightning  falls 
from  heaven,  not  stopping  half  way,  not  catching  at  a  stump  or 
a  twig  to  break  the  fall ;  not  halting  at  the  common  landing- 
places  of  trading  politicians,  of  midway  statesmen,  of  de 
medietate  patriots  and  orators,  with  half  a  tongue  ready  for 
either  side,  from  which  he  might  have  mounted  and  soared 
again  as  Chatham  did  after  a  peerage  and  a  pension,  which  he 
took  and  might  justly  have  clairned  as  his  right;  but  down  he 
went — 

Plumb  down  lie  drops  ten  thousand  fathoms  deep/ 

and  there  I  heard  him  in  a  special  pleading  for  Hanover 
against  England  in  1806  pronounce  the  panegyric,  and  bear 
witness  to  the  virtues  of  his  royal  master  Greorge  the  Third ! 
all  which  he  said  and  did  ex  abundanti,  without  necessity  or  the 
least  call  for  it.  Neither  could  it  possibly  be  of  any  service  to 
him  towards  gaining  the  king,  as  he  well  knew,  and  must  have 
known  if  he  knew  anything  of  that  gentleman.^  Had  he  hunted 
for  a  place  or  a  pension,  he  could  not  have  taken  up  the  defence 
of  Hanover  with  more  zeal  than  he  did  in  1806,  or  loaded  his 
gracious  sovereign  with  greater  professions  of  attachment,  and 
what  did  he  gain  by  it  ?  To  be  suspected,  if  not  convicted,  of 
insincerity  by  every  man  of  sense  and  spirit  in  the  kingdom, 
even  among  his  friends,  such  as  Coke  of  Norfolk,  Plummer  of 
Herts,  &c.,  who  all  knew  that  every  word  he  uttered  on  this 
subject  was  false.  And  what  would  he  have  lost  by  acting 
firmly  or  by  dying  a  year  or  two  sooner,  while  his  reputation 
was  entire  ?     The  short  possession  of  a  place  from  which  the 


'  Compare  '  Atticus'  on  Lord  Shelburne  (Bohn's  Junita,  ii.  248)  : 
'  Like  his  great  archetype,  the  vapour  on  which  he  rose  deserts  him,  and  now, 
"  Fluttering  his  pinions  vain,  plumb  down  he  drops."  '• — (Editor.) 

^  See  the  account  Bishop  Watson  gives  of  the  king's  behaviour  to  him  at 
the  lev^e,  because  he  was  a  Foxite ;  yet  his  '  Apology  for  the  Bible'  might 
have  been  supposed  to  have  made  his  peace  at  court. 


APPENDIX.  4-45 

best  of  princes  would  have  taken  the  first  opportunity  to  expel 
him,  as  he  did  Grrey  and  Grrenville  eight  months  after. 

This  coalition  with  Lord  North  in  1783,  considering  all  that 
had  passed  between  them,  was  an  act  of  wonderful  audacity, 
and  that  with  Lord  Grenville  in  1805  not  much  better.  Such 
sudden  transitions  from  enmity  to  friendship,  from  contempt 
and  abhorrence  to  esteem  and  union,  if  it  were  possible  to 
believe  them  sincere,  are  not  to  be  effected  without  some 
sacrifices  of  conscience  as  well  as  of  opinion  ;  and  then  he 
wondered  that  all  confidence  in  him  and  his  professions  was 
gone.  In  this  conduct  there  was  no  error  of  judgment.  His 
head  was  not  in  fault,  for  it  was  not  his  head  that  misled  him. 
I  have  no  doubt  that  Charles  Fox,  in  the  latter  part  of  his  life, 
if  not  much  sooner,  had  fallen  into  an  absolute  indifference 
about  public  opinion,  except  when  it  happened  to  coincide 
with  his  interest  or  inclinations,  and  that  he  took  this  dis- 
position, or  wished  to  have  it  taken,  for  philosophy.  The  fact,  if 
it  were  so,  might  be  accounted  for  without  any  very  deep  reproach 
to  him.  His  spirit  after  fifty  might  well  have  been  exasperated 
by  disappointment,  or  lowered  by  despondence,  or  made  callous 
by  despair.  It  is  speaking  favourably  of  him,  and  placing  his 
character  in  the  most  advantageous  point  of  view,  to  presume, 
as  long  as  the  human  mind  can  resist  conviction,  that  this 
apathy  about  consistency  and  character,  when  they  could  not 
be  obtained  or  preserved  without  a  sacrifice  of  other  objects, 
was  not  innately  in  him  or  inherited  from  his  father,  or  imbibed 
from  his  example,  but  that  it  grew  on  him,  with  the  impressions 
natural  to  hopeless  perseverance  and  discouragement  (by  which 
energy  is  extingi-ushed  much  sooner  than  by  resistance),  and  in 
the  end  a  most  determined  love  of  personal  ease,  which  it  is  in 
vain  for  an  active  mind  long  accustomed  to  vigorous  employ- 
ment or  to  eager  pursuits,  to  look  for  in  retirement  beyond  the 
occasional  relief  of  a  holiday.  Yet  he  certainly  liked  fame,  not 
merely  as  an  enjoyment,  but  as  a  medium  or  an  instrument, 
and  probably  would  rather  have  used  it  if  it  answered  his 
purpose  as  well  as  any  other.  No  man  talked  of  personal  and 
national  honour  more  strenuously  than  he  did,  as  if  there  were 
little  or  nothing  else  worth  living  or  contending  for.  I  do  not 
mean  to  say  that  he  had  no  prevailing  passion,  by  which  his 
mind  was  generally  governed,  though  not  always  absorbed; 
but  I  never   could    observe    or    perceive   that    he    had   more 


446  APPENDIX. 

than  one.  For  even  his  wonderful  attachment  to  his  wife 
was  little  more  than  habit,  or  dejection,'  or  resource,  or  at 
the  utmost  a  passion  in  his  head  and  nowhere  else.  From 
his  cradle  to  his  coffin,  he  was  ei,  gamester,  without  positive 
avarice,  except  while  he  was  engaged,  from  a  pure  unadul- 
terated love  of  play.  He  was  subject  to  other  infirmities; 
but  gaming  was  the  master  passion  that  ruled  and  ruined  him. 
In  that  alone  he  was  in  earnest ;  and  it  followed  him  in  many- 
transactions  which  seemed  to  have  no  relation  to  play.  Every 
object  he  contended  for  was  a  stake  to  be  won,  and  made  him, 
in  the  hazardous  pursuit  of  it,  just  as  prodigal  of  honour  as  of 
fortune,  when  he  had  nothing  else  to  risk  or  to  forfeit.  Next  to 
the  delight  of  winning  he  had  none  but  in  losing,  and  on  that 
desperate  principle,  the  more  he  lost  the  better;  as  if  there 
were  some  elevation  or  enjoyment  in  excess  of  any  kind.  She 
who  melted  a  pearl  into  a  potion  thought  she  had  invented  a 
new  pleasure.  In  1805  no  man  had  more  reason  to  disregard 
popularity,  and,  as  a  noun  of  multitude,  to  distrust  and  abjure 
that  nominal  person,  still  called  the  people  of  England,  who 
always  hated  him  most  when  he  served  them  best.  But  to  j&nd 
a  compensation  for  honour  lost  in  the  magnitude  of  the  loss 
itself,  is  said  to  be  the  last  and  most  voluptuous  gratification  of 
a  prodigal  mind.  His  retreat  from  Parliament  in  1797,  as  far 
as  it  concerned  the  public  only,  did  not  want  a  justification ;  the 
nation  had  no  claim  on  him  for  gratitude  or  service,  nor  was 
his  absence  at  all  regretted  by  what  is  called  the  public.  It  was 
unjust  to  the  City  of  Westminster  to  hold,  and  not  to  occupy, 
the  place  they  gave  him.  Attendance  is  a  duty  inseparable 
from  the  station,  and  on  no  account  to  be  waived  or  renounced, 
especially  by  a  man  so  likely  to  be  followed  by  many  others. 
It  was  unjust  and  ungrateful  to  his  party  and  friends,  who  had 
lately  paid  his  debts,  and  made  him  independent ;  not,  surely, 
for  the  purpose  of  enabling  him  to  desert  them,  to  retire  into 
the  country,  and  to  marry  Mrs.  Armstead.  At  all  events,  he 
should  have  gone  alone,  and  not  have  taken  his  friends,  and  as 
many  of  his  party  as  he  could  influence,  along  with  him  to  cover 
his  retreat,  as  in  fact  he  did,  though  not  without  airs  of  remon- 
strance, and  requests  to  engage  them  to  stay.  There,  however, 
should  have  ended  his  political  life,  by  quitting  Parliament. 

Sic. 


APPENDIX.  447 

He  might  then,  though  far  from  blameless,  have  died  withoTit 
dishonour ;  and  no  man,  probably,  would  have  examined  the 
ashes  of  his  heart.  I  believe  it  was  his  own  wish  at  that  time ; 
and  he  had  an  audience  of  the  king,  to  tell  him  his  resolution 
and  intentions.  Like  many  other  eminent  persons  who  have 
survived  their  fame,  he  did  not  know  how  to  quit  the  field,  or 
how  to  untie  the  plot  and  make  an  exit  in  character,  before  the 
candles  were  burnt  out.  Of  the  judicial  faculty,  as  applied  to 
penetration  and  distinction  in  argument,  Mr.  Fox  had  infinitely 
more  than  a  common  share ;  besides  long  practice,  which,  with  a 
good  understanding,  makes  everything  easy  where  genius  is  not 
required.  The  only  judgment  he  wanted,  is  never  to  be  found  in 
a  calculating  head,  or  perhaps  in  any  other.  Would  Cato  have 
been  immortal  if  he  had  submitted  to  the  clemency  of  Cffisar  ? 
or  Brutus  and  Cassius,  if  they  had  waited  to  be  murdered  or 
forgiven  by  Augustus  ?  They  had  performed  their  part ;  the 
game  was  up,  and  never  to  be  recovered.  Otherwise  they  ought 
not  to  have  yielded  to  mere  adversity  in  any  extremity.  It  is 
only  at  the  summit  of  prosperity,  on  the  pinnacle  of  fame,  where 
you  cannot  move  without  falling,  that  the  elevated  persons 
called  heroes,  whether  wise  or  unwise  in  preferring  reputation 
to  existence,  are  bound  to  take  their  own  security  against 
fortune.  There  are  but  a  few  desperate  cases,  such  as  irre- 
coverable infamy  or  incurable  disease,  from  which  the  most 
devoted  victims  of  adversity  may  not  rise  again,  with  the  help  of 
common  talents  and  resolution.  I  speak  of  men  who  have  no 
object  but  to  ascend ;  who,  in  going  up  hill,  are  apt  to  be  out 
of  breath,  and  ready  to  shake  off  their  virtues  as  fast  as  they 
can,  for  fear  of  being  retarded.  After  the  marshes  of  Minturnse, 
Marius  lived  to  be  once  more  the  master  of  Eome.  Among  the 
pretended  dialogues  of  Socrates,  imputed  to  Plato,  which  I  had 
read  long  before  I  met  Mr.  Fox  at  Wooburn,  I  could  recollect 
but  one,  nor  can  I  now,  which  seemed  to  me  to  have  an  elevation 
or  sense  in  it  at  all  worthy  of  Socrates  ;  I  mean  the  Crito.  The 
Phido  is  feeble  and  flimsy,  and  in  some  parts  unintelligible.  All 
the  supposed  disputes  with  the  sophists  are  positively  contemp- 
tible. And  how  can  it  be  otherwise,  when  Plato  never  suffered 
those  poor  people  to  utter  a  word  of  common  sense  ?  In  the  Crito, 
and  a  few  others,  Socrates  is  permitted  to  speak  and  act  like  a 
man  of  virtue,  resolution,  and  sound  judgment,  undisturbed  by 
the  fear  of  death.   The  question  was,  whether  it  was  then  fit  for 


448  APPENDIX. 

him,  or  worth  his  while,  to  save  or  protract  a  life  of  unblemished 
fortitude  by  escaping  from  prison  in  disguise,  according  to  the 
advice  of  his  friends,  who  had  provided  the  means  of  his  escape. 

In  one  of  our  perpetual  disputes  at  Wooburn,  I  maintained 
that  Socrates  did  right  in  rejecting  that  advice,  and  would  have 
been  disgraced  if  he  had  followed  it.  In  this  opinion  I  am  not 
singular,  nor  am  I  sure  that  Fox  was  in  earnest  in  taking  the 
opposite  side ;  because  it  seems  to  me  impossible  that  any 
reasonable  man,  after  reading  the  '  Crito,'  could  decide  against 
Socrates;  whose  age,  I  admit,  is  to  be  taken  into  the  argument.  For 
I  am  not  so  heroic  as  to  assert  that,  at  five-and-twenty,  he  would 
have  been  bound  to  act  in  the  same  manner.  Quoad  hoc,  the 
young  man  and  the  old  man  would  have  been  different  persons. 
From  that  time,  I  began  to  suspect  that  Mr.  Fox  often  argued 
for  the  pleasure  of  arguing,  and  that  his  Grreek  studies  were 
not  very  deep,  and  had  gone  but  a  little  way  beyond  Homer  and 
Euripides,  the  minor  poets,  and  the  political  orations  of  Demos- 
thenes. Of  all  the  Greek  prose  writers,  I  should  have  thought 
Plutarch  the  most  likely  to  have  attracted  him ;  I  mean  the 
parallel  lives.  But  Plutarch  is  properly  a  Eoman  author ;  so 
are  Appian,  Diodorus,  and  Polybius,  too,  in  a  great  degree,  with 
others  who  wrote  in  Greek  after  Greece  was  extinguished,  and 
who  embodied  the  sound  understanding  of  the  Eomans  in  their 
own  language. 

In  alluding  to  the  vanity  of  the  Greeks,  properly  so  called,  I 
always  except  Xenophon,  Thucydides,  and  Demosthenes.  My 
opinion  of  the  extent  of  Mr.  Fox's  classical  studies  is  confirmed 
by  the  correspondence  lately  published  between  him  and  Wake- 
field, which  of  itself  is  a  curiosity,  not  for  the  value  of  the 
criticisms,  but  as  it  indicates  the  propensity  of  a  great  mind  to 
be  easily  interested  or  amused.  I  never  knew  a  second-hand 
man,  who,  without  labour  or  occupation  imposed  upon  him, 
could,  in  the  proper  sense  of  the  word,  be  amused  or  find 
amusement  for  himself.  Such  people,  having  no  resources  of 
their  own,  are  generally  a  burthen  to  themselves,  and,  of  course, 
to  others.  Louis  XIV.  was  a  mere  animal  blase,  an  exhausted 
receiver,  satiated  with  old  pleasures,  and  incapable  of  a  new 
one.  When  once  the  pursuits  and  enjoyments  of  youth  were 
over,  he  was  at  a  loss  what  to  do  with  himself,  or  how  to  exist ; 
until  the  basest  bigotry  and  most  pitiful  superstition  came  to 
help  him.     Sir  Kobert  Walpole  died  of  ennui  at  Houghton ; 


APPENDIX.  449 

but  Edmund  Burke,  had  he  been  locked  up  with  a  marble 
slab,  would  have  made  it  productive.  Charles  Fox  was  mis- 
taken latterly,  as  I  suspect,  in  the  choice  of  his  amusements. 
He  took  to  novels  for  pastime,  or  for  the  pleasure  of  reading 
them  to  his  wife,  as  if  such  an  appetite  as  his  could  be  fed  with 
pastry.  If  he  had  applied  vigorously  to  his  history  for  so  many 
hours  a  day,  time  would  never  have  hung  on  his  hands,  and  he 
might  have  read  '  Tom  Thumb  '  in  the  evening,  or  taken  a  nap 
in  an  easy-chair.  There  can  be  no  repose  but  from  labour,  and 
then  it  is  a  positive  pleasure.  Eelaxation  relates  to  exertion, 
and  is  not  to  be  had  without  it.  Charles  Fox  was  born  for 
litigation,  and  bred  in  debate,  in  which,  or  in  conversation,  or 
by  pumping  Edmund  Burke,  most  of  his  knowledge  was 
acquired,  and  he  avowed  it.  His  serious  reading  came  much 
later,  with  a  flood  of  romances ;  for  he  was  naturally  indolent, 
and  liked  nothing  heartily  that  gave  him  much  trouble.  To  the 
age  of  eleven  or  twelve  he  had  no  delight  or  occupation  that 
thoroughly  pleased  him,  but  in  disputing,  especially  with  his 
father,  who,  to  my  knowledge,  has  sometimes  almost  wept  for 
joy  at  finding  that  he  had  very  little  understanding  in  com- 
parison with  his  son.  Yet  the  old  lord,  though  not  a  match  for 
Charles,  was  no  fool.  Had  Mr.  Fox  been  bred  to  the  bar,  he 
would,  in  my  judgment,  have  made  himself,  in  a  shorter  time, 
and  with  much  less  application  than  any  other  man,  the  most 
powerful  litigant  that  ever  appeared  there. 

Had  he  been  educated  for  the  Church,  or  for  a  Dissenter,  he 
would  have  argued  the  Bench  of  Bishops,  or  the  Presbytery, 
out  of  their  senses,  after  letting  them  choose  their  side  and 
change  it.  A  judge  who  gave  a  charge  against  Fox's  deliberate 
opinion  in  any  cause,  must  have  been  resolute  as  well  as 
learned,  even  with  a  certainty  of  being  right.  He  would  have 
foudroye  a  jury  who  gave  a  verdict  according  to  the  charge  of 
the  judge  against  his  client,  if  it  were  possible  to  find  a 
material  objection  to,  it.  A  man  of  less  ability  and  courage,  in 
a  transition  from  one  set  of  antagonist  principles  to  another, 
had  the  former  been  no  more  and  no  better  than  so  many  old 
acquaintance,  would  have  tried  to  measure  his  steps  and  to 
graduate  his  course.  Omitting  the  coalition  with  Lord  North, 
1783,  it  seems  to  me  that,  in  1806,  Mr.  Fox  must  have 
thought  that  now  he  had  character  enough  to  live  on,  as  if  he 
had  won  it  at  some  game  which  he  ought  to  leave  off;  or  that 

VOL.  11.  G  G 


450  APPENDIX. 

his  eloquence  would  carry  him  safe  through  his  conduct,  like 
a  powerful  horse  over  a  ruined  road ;  at  all  events,  that  there 
was  no  time  to  be  lost ;  or,  what  I  believe  to  be  the  truth,  he 
utterly  disregarded  public  opinion,  which  by  that  time  he 
thought  could  be  of  no  further  use  to  him.  Another  instance, 
if  it  were  produced,  of  a  different  quality,  but  equally  estab- 
lishing the  same  conclusion,  would  amount  to  a  demonstration 
that  the  sense  of  shame,  if  he  ever  knew  what  it  was,  had  been 
dead  in  him  many  years  before  he  died.  He  had  been  but  ill 
educated — or  rather  he  had  no  education,  or  worse  than  none — 
until  he  was  sent  to  Eton,  where  he  soon  recovered  the  time 
lost  and  took  the  lead  that  belonged  to  his  superior  abilities. 
He  had  been  indulged  and  flattered  from  his  childhood  beyond 
all  bounds  of  prudence  by  his  father,  who  had  no  moral  prin- 
ciple in  his  own  composition,  and  neither  liked  nor  regarded  it 
in  others.  But  he  was  passionately  devoted  to  his  son  Charles, 
and  to  him  alone.  Mr.  Fox's  manners  and  common  behaviour, 
whether  from  shyness  or  indifference,  or  because  it  gave  him 
trouble  to  observe  the  forms  of  civility,  were  not  at  all  attrac- 
tive ;  and  I  think  that,  in  the  ordinary  intercourse  of  society, 
nobody  who  knew  him  but  slightly  could  possibly  have  liked 
him,  insomuch  that  I  believe  he  never  won  the  goodwill  of 
any  human  creature,  of  those,  I  mean,  who  were  new  to  him, 
but  when  he  loaded  the  dice  and  threw  for  it.  Lord  Mintc 
assured  me  long  ago  that  he  never  felt  himself  at  ease  in  Fox's 
company  when  they  were  otherwise  on  friendly  terms,  or  at 
least  acted  together  ;  and  this,  in  some  degree,  was  my  own 
case  with  him  long  after  we  had  been  acquainted  and  appa- 
rently intimate.  In  those  times,  I  used  to  resort  to  a  stratagem 
which  seldom  failed  to  get  rid  of  the  embarrassment  of  being 
alone  with  him,  when  there  was  no  special  business  in  hand, 
viz.  by  stating  something  in  strong  terms  which  I  knew  would 
provoke  him  to  speak  his  mind,  as  he  was  ready  enough  to  do, 
especially  in  contradiction,  for  he  seldom  opened  any  subject 
himself,  and  when  he  was  forced  to  begin  rarely  did  it  well 
His  eloquence,  like  his  manners,  was  too  rough  and  substantia 
to  want  the  formalities  of  an  oration.  When  he  attempted  s 
regular  exordium  or  peroration,  I  used  to  think  his  speeches 
were  not  the  better  for  it.  But  they  never  lost  force  or  effecl 
by  rapid  introduction,  or  abrupt  conclusion.  Instead  of  dipping 
gradually  with  shivering  steps  until  he  was  afloat,  he  sliould 


APPENDIX.  451 

always  have  plunged  into  his  subject  and  sallied  out  of  it.  His 
wonderful  faculties  for  debate  were  generally  most  powerful  in 
reply,  and  I  always  thought  never  burned  so  fiercely  as  when 
they  were  provoked  or  excited.  When  once  he  was  launched 
into  discourse  and  under  way,  he  was  in  his  element,  and  went 
on  of  himself  not  as  a  vessel,  but  a  fish.  In  his  arguments  of 
this  sort,  however,  I  never  saw  any  mixture  of  spite  or 
malignity  when  his  temper  was  most  tried. 

He  hated  very  little,  because  in  general  he  loved  nobody. 
To  Sheridan  alone  he  now  and  then  replied  with  bitterness,  as 
if  he  was  talking  to  a  Jew  or  a  swindler.  Some  of  his  party- 
friends  were  good-humoured  enough  to  pass  for  something- 
better,  without  real  affection  or  friendly  feeling  for  anybody,  at 
least  out  of  their  own  clique, ;  that  is,  they  were  hard  and 
smooth.  His  character  was  nearly  the  reverse  of  theirs,  for  the 
inside  of  him  was  better  than  the  out.  He  was  often  peevish, 
like  a  spoiled  child,  but  not  ill-natured,  much  less  malignant. 
He  seldom  spoke  very  harshly  of  any  individual.  In  this 
respect  he  was  the  reverse  of  Burke,  with  whom  all  mankind, 
as  far  as  party  and  politics  went,  were  Grod  or  Devil.  "Within 
my  own  knowledge,  the  only  persons  whom  Fox  positively 
could  not  endure,  were  Home  Tooke  and  Sheridan,  with  some 
antipathy  rather  than  enmity  to  Greorge  Tierney.  The  former 
he  seemed  to  detest,  and  avowed  it.  At  my  own  table  I  have 
heard  him  abuse  Tooke  as  the  greatest  villain  he  had  known. 
Of  Sheridan  he  said  little,  but  that  little  was  enough:  Gui 
altius  irascebatur  silentio  transmisit,  except  now  and  then,  or 
to  intimates,  particularly  to  Charles  Grrey,  from  whom  I  have 
it  that  Sheridan  to  him  was  an  object  of  loathing  and  abhor- 
rence, and  had  been  so  for  many  years  before  his  death.  He 
never  told  me  so,  but  I  was  sure  of  it  long  before  from  what  I 
have  been  witness  to  myself,  from  expressions  that  escaped 
him,  and  from  circumstances  which  always  tell  truth.  Of  his 
hatred  of  Home  Tooke,  I  can  only  state  the  fact,  except  only 
by  conjecture,  that  he  must  have  wounded  Charles  Fox  by 
some  act  or  demonstration  of  personal  hostility,  in  a  vulnerable 
part,  beyond  the  common  enmity  or  abuse  which  are  incident 
or  belong  to  party  divisions,  and  which  he  never  regarded. 
Most  probably  it  had  a  relation  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,'  who,  to  my 

'  Vide  H.  Tooke's  printed  letter,  in  which  he  calls  her  Princess  of 
Wales,  &c. 


453  APPENDIX. 

own  knowledge,  for  she  often  told  me  so,  abhorred  Fox,  and 
never  would  be  reconciled  to  him,  notwithstanding  manj 
advances  and  earnest  submissions  on  his  part,  of  which  at  his 
request  I  was  more  than  once  the  bearer.  She  said  that  by  his 
unauthorised  declarations  in  the  House  of  Commons  he  had 
rolled  her  in  the  kennel  like  a  street- walker ;  that  he  knew  that 
every  word  he  said  was  a  lie,  and  so  on,  in  a  torrent  of  virulence 
which  it  was  in  vain  for  me  to  encounter,  so  I  gave  the  point 
up  and  made  my  retreat  as  well  and  as  fast  as  I  could.  On 
the  other  hand,  Home  Tooke  flattered  her  in  his  own  way — but 
whether  by  direct  access  to  her  or  not  I  cannot  say — that  she 
was  Princess  of  Wales,  that  she  must  be  acknowledged,  that  the 
marriage,  in  which  the  rites  and  ceremonies  of  both  Churches 
had  been  strictly  observed,  could  not  be  set  aside,  or,  at  all 
events,  must  invalidate  any  other.  All  this  he  maintained  for 
the  mere  purpose  of  doing  mischief,  and  to  gratify  his  own 
rancours,  not  only  to  her,  who  was  willing  enough  to  listen  to 
such  doctrines,  but  in  print,  and  whatever  influence  he  gained 
by  it  was  employed,  through  what  medium  I  know  not,  to 
exasperate  her  against  Mr.  Fox.  He,  indeed,  had  acted  most 
unwisely  in  declaring  orally  to  the  House  of  Commons'  that 
he  had  spoken  from  direct  authority,  that  the  fact  of  the 
Prince's  marriage  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  not  only  never  could 
have  happened  legally,  but  never  did  happen  in  any  way 
whatsoever,  and  had  from  the  beginning  been  a  base  and 
malicious  falsehood !  The  Prince  ought  to  have  sent  this 
message,  supposing  the  thing  to  have  been  absolutely  necessary, 
by  his  own  Chancellor,  or  some  principal  officer  of  his  house- 
hold ;  or,  at  all  events  Fox,  if  he  would  or  must  be  the  carrier 
of  such  a  declaration,  ought  to  have  taken  it  in  writing,  on  no 
other  condition,  and  answering  for  nothing  himself. 

All  that  can  be  said  for  his  imprudence  is,  that,  at  that  time 
he  did  not  know  the  Prince,  who  soon  after  disavowed  him,  at 
least  to  the  lady.  At  that  time  there  was  not  a  well-informed 
man  in  London  who  was  not  convinced  that  in  1785,  the  rites  and 
ceremonies  of  marriage,  between  the  Prince  and  Mrs.  P'itzherbert, 
had  taken  place  according  to  the  rules  established  in  both 
Churches,  and  I  am  as  sure  of  the  fact  as  if  I  had  been  present. 
To  distrust  Sheridan  could    hardly  be  avoidable  in  any  man 

1   Vide  Debates,  30tli  April,  1787,  p.  1070. 


APPENDIX.  453 

who  knew  him,  much  less  au  instance  of  sagacity.  For  my 
own  part,  I  have  no  reason  to  boast  or  suspect  that  Fox  had 
ever  any  real  goodwill  to  me,  though  he  kept  up  some  appear- 
ance and  professions  of  it  to  the  last.  But  that  he  should 
positively  have  hated  me  is  impossible,  until  he  had  resolved  to 
sacrifice  me  to  Lauderdale;  a  flagitious  act  of  injustice  and 
ingratitude,  for  which  it  is  not  in  human  nature  that  the  ag- 
gressor should  forgive  the  victim.  The  merits  of  that  trans- 
action shall  be  considered  hereafter.  I  allude  to  it  now  because 
it  connects  with  an  anecdote  which  proves  and  illustrates  what 
I  have  said  of  his  hatred  of  Sheridan.  As  far  as  I  am  able  to 
recollect  he  never  heartily  commended  me  for  anything  I  ever 
said  or  did  in  the  House  of  Commons,  even  when  I  laboured 
most  to  serve  him,  but  once.  In  general,  when  he  could 
not  censure,  he  slighted  or  was  silent.  I  once  happened 
to  take  notice  of  Sheridan's  intriguing  with  Addington,  and 
of  his  conduct  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  which  I  meant  to 
censure  as  it  deserved.  What  I  said,  however,  went  further 
and  cut  deeper  into  Sheridan's  heart  than  I  intended  or  thought 
of.  On  this  occasion,  Mr.  Fox,  when  he  heard  of  it  at  St.  Ann's 
Hill,  did  certainly  applaud  me  con  amove  and  much  more 
than  the  thing  deserved,  in  odium  tertii,  not  that  he  liked 
me  the  better  for  it  except  at  the  moment.  Yet  I  am  not  at 
all  sure  that  when  I  was  interred  he  would  not  have  pronounced 
my  panegyric,  for  a  speech  cost  him  nothing.  Yet  he  would 
have  done  it  very  ill,  even  if  he  had  been  in  earnest.  By 
luckily  surviving  him  I  escaped  that  honour,  and  saved  him 
from  that  representation.  I  would  have  much  sooner  have 
trusted  Edmund  Burke  with  the  posthumous  care  of  my  name 
and  reputation,  though  from  1791  we  had  been  almost  entirely 
disunited,  after  a  real  friendship  and  intimacy  of  many  years  ; 
because  1  am  sure  that  if  he  had  undertaken  the  task  he  would 
have  performed  it  heartily  and  bona  fide.  Not  that  Fox  would 
have  betrayed  that,  or  any  cause  which  he  had  once  engaged  to 
support  or  defend,  but  panegyric  was  not  his  province,  and 
when  he  attempted  it  not  at  all  the  better  for  preparation.  A 
few  words  of  sorrow  and  applause,  coming  of  themselves  in 
the  course  or  agitation  of  some  other  question,  and  starting 
from  it  as  if  they  had  escaped  him,  a  breathless  pause,  a  broken 
sentence,  and  then  a  rapid  return  to  his  subject,  as  if  for  instant 
relief,  could  not  but  have   made  a  deep  impression  on  any 


454  APPENDIX., 

audience.  For  who  can  resist  the  inarticulate  sorrows  of  a 
wounded  heart  ?  His  eulogy  of  PYancis  Duke  of  Bedford  (the 
hest-intentioned  public  person,  the  most  virtuous  man  with  the 
soundest  mind  I  ever  knew,  except  Earl  Fitzwilliam,  in  so 
high  a  rank  of  life),  seemed  to  me  a  performance  very  unequal 
to  the  subject  and  to  the  speaker.  I  am  sure  it  made  little 
impression,  and  the  less  because  it  was  the  result  of  pains  and 
reflection,  with  an  emphatic  delivery.  Had  he  unexpectedly 
heard  of  the  Duke's  death  while  he  was  speaking  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  and  sudden  grief  had  made  its  way  in  a  natural 
unpremeditated  burst  of  passion,  which  alone  can  be  pathetic, 
I  think  he  would  have  succeeded  much  better,  even  possibly 
enough  to  touch  the  androgynous  heart  of  William  Pitt.  But 
pathos  is  not  to  be  prepared.  A  deliberate  speech,  after  the 
first  affliction  had  subsided,  should  have  been  taken  in  a  lower 
key.  It  should  have  been  grave  and  solemn  throughout,  deli- 
neating, not  painting  the  public  character,  to  prove  the  national 
loss ;  except  that,  at  last,  he  might  have  given  way  to  the  ac- 
cumulated sorrows  with  which  the  recollection  of  so  many 
engaging  qualities  and  eminent  virtues,  lost  for  ever,  might 
naturally  have  overwhelmed  him ;  and  if  in  that  transport  of 
grief  his  voice  had  failed  him,  or  his  speech  had  ended  abruptly, 
there  were  but  few  men,  even  in  the  House  of  Commons,  callous 
enough  not  to  have  been  affected  by  the  subject,  the  actor,  and 
the  scene.     Of  those  few  William  Pitt  was  the  principal. 

I  say  what  I  think,  whether  I  am  right  or  wrong  is  now  of 
little  moment.  In  looking  back  to  some  characteristic  passages 
of  Mr.  Fox's  private  life,  which  indicated  a  gentle  disposition, 
my  goodwill  to  him  returns  of  itself  with  a  sensation  of  sym- 
pathy and  regret.  As  there  are  looks  and  features  in  the 
human  countenance  which  reconcile  us  to  the  absence  of  beauty, 
so,  in  the  mixed  character,  of  which  most  of  us  are  composed, 
a  good  natural  disposition,  supposing  it  real  and  spontaneous, 
covers  many  essential  faults,  and  almost  reconciles  us  to  quali- 
ties and  actions  worse  than  defects ;  as  they  did  many  to  Lord 
North,  who  positively  was  the  most  good-humoured  man  of 
those  whom  I  have  known  or  heard  of  among  ministers  or 
others  who  are  at  all  likely  to  be  remembered  in  history.  When 
I  recollect  what  I  have  often  heard  from  Burke,  the  Duke  of 
Portland,  and  others,  that  Charles  Fox  could  amuse  himself  for 
hours  with  sitting  on  the  floor  to  play  with  children,   when 


APPENDIX.  455 

I  read  his  correspondence  with  Wakefield  ahout  the  Grreek 
digamma,  the  use  of  the  final  &c.,'  and  many  other  curiosities 
of  equal  moment,  let  no  man  think  that  I  value  him  the  less 
for  indulging  in  these  relaxations.  The  bow  was  unbent,  but 
you  might  see  how  far  it  carried. 

Neqae  semper  arcum  tendit  Apollo. 

In  common  society  he  was  by  no  means  forward  to  speak,  or 
overbearing  in  conversation.  In  debates  of  every  kind  he  could 
listen  as  well  as  argue — a  very  uncommon  qualification ;  and 
in  general  was  a  fair  opponent.  He  took  the  argument  as  it 
was  meant,  and  answered  it  if  he  could ;  but  never  sought  an 
advantage  by  cavil  or  quibble ;  or  like  Pitt,  by  resorting  and 
swinging  round  to  the  audience,  which,  considering  that  he,  Mr. 
Fox,  kept  little  company  but  with  people  devoted  to  him,  must 
have  been  always  on  his  side.  To  this,  whether  rule  or  temper, 
there  were  two  extraordinary  exceptions,  but  they  belonged  to 
public  questions,  and  may  be  accounted  for  by  political  views 
and  interests,  or  by  a  necessity  of  submitting  to  an  accommoda- 
tion with  the  Court.  His  defence  of  admitting  Law,  the  Chief 
Justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  a  passionate,  furious  person,  and 
for  other  reasons  unfit  for  a  judicial  ofiice,  into  the  Cabinet  of 
1806,  and  so  far  for  the  uniting  the  judicial,  political,  and 
executive  power  in  the  same  hand,  was  his  dying  masterpiece ; 
and  yet  I  think  it  impossible  that  he  could  have  been  convinced 
by  it. 

The  principles  which  he  laboured  to  overset  are  evidently,  pal- 
pably, and  unquestionably  those  of  the  English  Constitution,  if 
it  be  founded  on  plain  reason,  or  common  sense.  His  precedents 
were  mere  facts,  which,  when  they  are  true,  prove  nothing  but 
that,  in  a  well-constituted  government,  examples  may  be  found 
for  any  abuse,  as  there  may  be  for  any  crime,  even  where 
crimes  are  punished.  He  had  too  much  logic  in  his  head  to 
believe  or  profess  that  arguments  can  be  answered  by  authori- 
ties, or  principles  overset  by  practice.  In  him,  of  all  men,  it 
was  treason  against  England  to  resort  to  such,  or  to  any  prece- 
dents in  opposition  to  the  plain  reason  of  the  Constitution.  In 
urging  the  case  and  example  of  Lord  Mansfield  (a  marvellous 
authority  for  him  to  appeal  to),  I  believe  he  was  mistaken  ;  I 

1  Sic. 


456  APPENDIX. 

speak  now  from  the  remains  of  a  strong  impression  on  my 
memory,  rather  than  a  distinct  recollection  of  the  fact.  Without 
entering  into  the  moral  or  political  character  of  Lord  Mansfield, 
I  presume  it  will  not  be  denied  that  he  was  generally  deemed  a 
timid  man,  and  not  at  all  a  resolute  politician.  They  who 
know  anything  of  the  merits  of  the  Douglas  Cause,  and  the 
part  he  took  in  it,  will  not  be  ready  to  believe  that  he  could  be 
an  upright  judge,  or  what  is  called  an  honest  man.  That  question 
shall  not  be  suppressed,  as  Andrew  Stewart's  letter  to  him  has 
been  by  Stewart's  friends.  The  charge  against  him,  to  the  best 
of  my  recollection  and  judgment,  was  not  for  taking  a  place  in 
the  Cabinet,  and  so  uniting  in  himself  the  powers  and  duties  of 
two  incompatible  offices,  which  would  have  been  a  case  in  point, 
hut  for  giving  secret  advice  to  the  King  in  the  closet  behind  the 
curtain — for  which,  if  it  were  true  and  could  be  proved,  old 
Chatham  would  have  had  his  head  off — that  he  overruled  the 
Cabinet  when  he  was  not  in  a  station  that  entitled  him  to 
advise,  taking  the  power  without  the  name  or  office,  of  course 
without  responsibility,  a  word  now  empty  and  ridiculous,  but 
at  that  time  supposed  to  signify  something.  Whether  he  did 
so  or  not,  or  how  far,  is  another  question. 

That  this  was  the  charge  and  prevailing  opinion  against  him, 
at  least  up  to  1775,  I  am  absolutely  certain.  If  he  took  a 
Cabinet  place  afterwards,  it  must  have  been  when  I  was  in 
India.  The  conduct  imputed,  possibly  without  reason,  coincided 
well  enough  with  the  character  attributed  to  him  to  make  the 
suspicion  probable.  The  fact,  if  it  were  proved,  that  he  held  a 
seat  in  the  Cabinet,  would  have  been  a  poor  justification  of  the 
use  it  was  applied  to  by  Charles  Fox.  To  him,  at  least.  Lord 
Mansfield  could  have  been  no  authority ;  nor  could  any  authority 
or  any  practice  have  subdued  the  principle.  I  listened  to  his 
speech  with  all  possible  attention,  and  with  this  final  impres- 
sion on  my  mind  :  that  there  was  not  in  it  a  single  argument 
or  proposition  of  any  moment,  which,  if  it  had  been  before  me 
in  another  form,  I  could  not  have  refuted  or  demonstrated  to 
be  false.  I  thought  so  then,  and  now  I  am  sure  of  it.  A  single 
question,  however,  if  I  had  not  been  restrained  from  urging  it 
to  him  by  many  just  considerations  external  to  the  subject,  as 
well  as  that  the  original  motion  was  waived  (for  if  it  had  been 
insisted  on,  I  should  have  voted  against  it ;  and  so  I  told  him 
beforehand),  would  have  been  sufficient  for  my  purpose.      I 


APPENDIX.  457 

would  have  asked  and  conjured  him  by  the  life  which  for  every 
purpose  but  honour  he  had  wasted  in  opposition,  by  all  the 
principles  he  had  professed  for  twenty  years,  and  by  his  future 
fame,  to  answer  me  fairly  ;  not  as  a  minister,  not  as  an  advo- 
cate, or  special  pleader,  but  as  Charles  Fox ;  whether  if  he,  or 
any  friend  dear  to  him,  were  prosecuted  for  treason,  and  to  be 
tried  in  the  King's  Bench  by  a  Chief  Justice  who  held  a  seat  in 
the  Cabinet,  who  by  that  means  was  acquainted  with  the  case 
and  the  evidence  ex  'parte,  who  might  have  drawn  up,  or  cor- 
rected the  indictment,  and  advised  the  prosecution  :  or  by  a 
Chief  Justice  who  had  no  extraordinary  judicial  knowledge  of 
the  sul)ject,  who  knew  nothing  of  the  merits,  or  the  party,  or 
the  evidence,  until  they  came  before  him  in  judgment,  and  the 
choice  had  been  given  to  him  :  by  which  of  those  magistrates 
he  would  have  been  tried,  in  order  to  be  most  secure  of  a  fair 
trial  for  himself  or  his  friend,  and  his  reasons  for  preferring 
either  of  them  to  the  other  ?  His  answer  would  not  have 
altered  my  opinion  of  the  constitutional  question ;  but  it  might 
have  made  me  think  a  little  better,  or  a  great  deal  worse,  of 
him  than  I  did  at  that  moment.  If  authority  were  wanted  in 
support  of  self-evident  principles,  I  would  appeal  to  that  of  Sir 
Samuel  Eomilly,  who  (in  his  speech  of  1st  day  of  March,  1814, 
on  the  appointment  of  Garrow  to  hold  the  offices  of  Chief 
Justice  of  Chester  for  life,  with  that  of  Attorney- General  at 
pleasure,  but  of  ten  times  the  value  of  the  other)  has  argued 
this  question.  He  says :  '  Should  such  occurrences  again 
take  place,  persons  would  be  tried  by  an  individual  who  had 
advised  and  directed  their  prosecution.'  This  appeal,  how- 
ever, to  the  case  of  Lord  Mansfield,  with  the  help  of  a  party 
and  at  that  time  the  influence  of  Government,  might  be 
called  a  debatable  question,  though  I  know  it  staggered  some 
of  the  staunchest  of  his  friends,  who  in  general  were  not 
overrun  with  prudery.  At  a  private  dinner  at  Mr.  Vaughan's, 
on  the  12th  of  April,  1811,  Lord  Grey  declared  to  us  of  his 
own  accord,  that  of  all  the  acts  of  the  administration  of  1806, 
there  tva^  nothing  he  so  deeply  regretted  as  having  ever  con- 
sented to  let  Lord  Ellenborough  into  the  Cabinet. 

The  other  question,  on  which  Mr.  Fox  took  part  with  a  violence 
of  passion  very  uncommon  in  him,  and  with  an  imbecility  of  argu- 
ment, which  at  that  time  astonished  me  as  much  as  his  adopting 
such  a  cause  on  any  terms,  was  whether  foreign  property  in  our 


458  APPENDIX. 

funds  should  be  exempted  from  the  property  tax.  The  speeches 
are  in  print,  and  therefore  I  shall  say  nothing  of  the  merits  of 
the  debate,  and  dismiss  the  subject  with  two  observations:  first, 
that  some  time  elapsed  before  I  could  comprehend  or  conjecture 
why  he  took  part  with  George  Eose  in  so  odioiis  a  business.  I 
did  not  then  know,  or  I  never  thought  of  it,  that  the  King  held 
property  in  the  Funds  to  a  very  great  amount,  in  the  name  of 
the  Regency  of  Hanover  and  other  German  mediators,  that  his 
own  might  not  appear ;  for  which  indulgence,  to  the  best  of 
princes,  Mr.  Fox  thought  fit  to  make  the  nation  lose,  and  of 
course  pay,  about  £70,000  a  year  to  aliens,  as  we  have  done 
ever  since.  Second!}',  that,  if  I  had  known  nothing  of  Mr. 
Fox's  powers  of  debate  but  by  the  exhibition  of  that  night,'  I 
must  have  placed  him  as  low  in  intellect  as  I  found  him  to  be 
in  political  morals  ;  much  less  could  I  have  thought  him  capa- 
ble of  those  magnificent  exertions  which  I  have  seen  him  rise 
to  on  many  other  occasions. 

The  element  he  thrived  in,  though  never  reconciled  to  it, 
was  Adversity.  Too  much  cannot  be  said  in  acknowledgment 
of  his  talents  and  vigour,  in  opposition  to  superior  numbers, 
ruinous  measures,  and  profligate  power,  and  without  popularity 
to  support  him ;  for  though  he  had  a  great  party,  I  never  knew 
a  time  or  an  occasion  when  the  general  voice  or  inclination  of 
the  country  was  heartily  with  him,  though  sometimes  with  his 
measures.  Against  all  these  disadvantages  he  manfully  con- 
tended, and,  as  far  as  argument  could  carry  him,  with  success. 
But  the  moment  he  had  wind  and  tide  with  him  he  lost  his 
steerage.  Neither  was  it  possible  that  such  a  man  as  Charles 
Fox  could,  for  any  continuance,  have  been  the  minister  of  such 
a  king  as  Geobge  the  Third.  Either  the  parties  did  not  un- 
derstand one  another,  or  they  could  not  amalgamate.  Mr.  Fox 
had  the  attachment  of  habit,  but  no  affections — in  all  his 
speeches  (except  a  single  instance)  in  which  he  attempted  to  be 
pathetic,  he  failed.  I  have  seen  him  cry  and  blubber,  but 
totally  without  impression.  At  the  time  when  he  made  thai 
outcry  in  the  House  of  Commons  about  his  separation  fron 
Edmund  Burke,  and  shed  so  many  tears,  they  who  knew  him. 
knew  it  was  a  farce,  and  that  he  cared  not  one  farthing  foi 
Burke.     It  was  ill  acted  too,  and  would  not  have  succeeded  ai 

'  28th  May  180G. 


APMSNDIX.  450 

a  representation.  Even  then,  though  I  did  not  suspect  his 
sincerity,  I  was  very  little  moved  by  his  tears.  The  essential 
defect  in  his  character,  and  the  cause  of  all  his  failures,  strange 
as  it  may  seem,  was  that  he  had  no  heart.  I  do  not  say  that 
he  had  nothing  like  tenderness  in  his  disposition,  but,  in  this 
respect,  he  seemed  to  be  only  a  well-strung  instrument  that 
vibrated  when  it  was  touched.  The  vibration  was  in  the  nerve 
and  there  it  ended. 

In  all  my  reading  and  experience,  no  instance  occurs  to  me 
of  human  sagacity  equal  to  that  with  which  a  blind  old  French 
woman,  Madame  du  Deffaud,  penetrated  at  once  into  Mr.  P'ox's 
character,  when  he  was  just  two-and-twenty,  and  no  otherwise 
known  to  her  than  by  two  or  three  occasional  visits  to  her 
at  Paris.  In  her  letter  to  Horace  Walpole  (dated  13  January, 
1771),  she  says:  'Pour  le  Fox,  il  est  dur,  hardi,  il  a  la  con- 
fiance  de  son  merite ;  il  ne  se  donne  pas  le  terns  de  I'examen ; 
il  voit  tout  du  premier  coup  d'oeil,  et  il  voit  tout  a  vue  d'oiseau  ; 
et  je  doute  fort  qu'il  passe  la  distinction  d'un  homme  a  un 
autre.'  Ce  n'est  point  par  suffisance ;  il  n'a  point  Pair  meprisaut 
ni  vain,  mais  on  ne  communique  point  avec  lui;  et  je  suis  per- 
suadee  qu'il  ne  peut  former  aucune  liaison  que  celle  qu'entraine 
le  jeu,  et  peut-etre  la  politique.'     (Vide  vol.  ii.  p.  290.) 

With  respect  to  the  historical  memoir  she  left  behind  him,  I  do 
not  think  that  justice  was  done  him  by  his  executors.  Too  much 
had  been  said  of  that  work  before  it  appeared,  and  it  had  been 
talked  of  too  long.  The  price  demanded  for  the  copy  was 
excessive ;  all  this  was  done  to  enhance  the  value  and  to  raise 
money  for  Mrs.  Fox.  The  work,  such  as  he  left  it,  was  little 
more  than  a  fragment,  and  as  such  it  ought  to  have  been 
published  without  any  other  pretension.  It  contains  many 
good  principles  and  sound  constitutional  opinions,  but,  on  the 
whole,  far  below  Mr.  Fox's  reputation.  The  publication  at  last 
disappointed  the  expectations  of  all  men.  The  period  he 
took,  as  I  think,  was  ill  chosen,  and  could  not  have  furnished 
adequate  materials  or  characters  beyond  what  was  already 
known  to  occupy  or  interest  a  man  of  his  high  judicial  powers. 
It  was  impossible  to  make  anything  considerable  of  such 
persons  as  Argyle  and  Monmouth,  or  of  the  insignificant  though 
ruinous  transactions  they  were  engaged  in.     What  he  would 

^  That  is,  his  bird's-eye  view  of  men  made  him  think  them  all  alike,  viz., 
all  rogues  for  his  instruments,  or  fools  for  his  dupes. 


460  APPENDIX. 

have  done  with  the  Revolution  if  his  narrative  had  reached  to  it, 
and  what  new  lights  he  could  have  thrown  on  the  merits  of  that 
event,  and  of  the  parties  concerned  in  it,  can  only  be  matter  of 
conjecture.  The  period  which  /  would  have  allotted  to  him  as 
most  suitable  to  his  argumentative  penetrating  powers,  and 
commensurate  with  the  high  discriminating  faculties  of  his 
mind,  would  have  been  the  contest  between  Charles  I.  and 
the  Parliament,  from  the  first  dissolution  in  1628  to  the  death 
of  that  man  ;  not  as  a  formal  history,  for  which  there  could  be 
no  new  materials,  so  much  as  a  subject  for  some  grand  unex- 
pected illustration  of  the  characters  and  the  ease  by  a  master's 
hand. 

In  1818. 

The  name  of  Charles  Fox  is  still  held  up,  his  principles 
appealed  to  as  a  standard,  and  his  memory  celebrated  at  public 
meetings,  clubs,  and  taverns,  to  have  a  rallying  point,  and  to 
keep  what  they  still  call  the  Whig  party  alive.  Sed  magna  est 
Veritas. 

Having  fairly  acknowledged  all  that  was  good  in  him,  and 
given  Mm  credit  for  the  full  value  of  it,  there  remains  but 
little  to  say  of  his  public  conduct  or  private  character,  but  that 
little  is  material.  Comparing  him  always  with  the  eminence  of 
his  understanding  and  with  the  character  acquired  or  made  for 
him,  I  think  he  was  one  of  the  weakest  of  men  I  ever  knew  ; 
I  mean  in  point  of  judicious  conduct  and  steady  resolution. 
How  he  undertook  all  the  dirty  work  of  the  coalition  with  Lord 
Grrenville  in  1806,  who  paid  him  in  patronage,  need  not  be 
stated  and  cannot  be  disputed.  I  know  he  was  under  the  in- 
fluence of  a  clique  of  women  and  others,  who  lived  with  him 
out  of  sight,  who  having  all  the  easy  access  and  gentle  oppor- 
tunities, beset  him  perpetually  for  their  own  purposes.  In  this 
class  I  do  not  allude  to  his  real  original  friends,  who  were 
gentlemen,  as  well  as  bona  fide,  attached  to  him,  such  as  Lord 
Kobert  Spencer,  Lord  Thanet,  Lord  John  Townsend,  General 
Fitzpatrick,  Coke  of  Norfolk,  and  others  of  that  character. 
Thanet  and  Coke  wanted  nothing,  but  Thanet  ought  to  have 
had  a  splendid  reparation  for  his  imprisonment.  The  rest 
deserved  everything  from  him  that  he  did  or  could  give  them. 
The  set  who  latterly  surrounded  him,  and  paid  court  to  his 
wife,  were  of  a  different  quality.     He  knew,  despised,  and  dis- 


APPENDIX.  461 

trusted  them,  and  would  have  kept  them  out  of  his  house  and 
away  from  him  if  he  could.  He  was  not  a  man  to  resist 
assiduous  whining  importunity  face  to  face ;  and  least  of  all 
when  Mrs.  Fox,  a  simple  person,  but  as  to  Mm,  I  believe  per- 
fectly well  meaning,  was  made  a  party  and  a  dupe  to  it.  This 
facility  was  in  his  temper,  and  could  be  no  virtue  in  his 
character,  for  when  he  yielded  to  these  people  it  was  generally 
against  the  grain.  The  fact  is,  he  could  not  endure  to  be 
troubled  or  fretted.  They  who  had  no  disposition  or  oppor- 
tunity to  tease  him  had  no  chance  with  him,  unless  they  had 
parliamentary  interest  and  power ;  and  made  their  bargain 
accordingly.  As  to  the  influence  of  women,  when  it  is  allowed 
to  interpose,  and  predominate  over  questions  not  within  their 
province,  I  am  sure  it  is  a  case  that  would  rarely,  if  ever, 
happen  with  a  man  of  sound  understanding,  who  had  no  com- 
pensation to  make  for  other  deficiencies.  They  who  cannot 
excite  either  love  or  respect  must  pay  for  it  by  submission  to 
their  wives.  It  is  not  for  me  of  all  men  to  be  inexorable  on 
this  subject;  for  who  is  it  has  loved,  admired,  and  esteemed  as 
I  have  done  ?  I  know  that  women  are  the  best  of  the  human 
species,  I  know  that  a  well-principled,  well-educated  English 
woman  has  more  virtues,  and  is  capable  of  a  more  disinterested 
attachment  even  to  the  sacrifice  of  herself,  and  more  good  sense 
too,  in  questions  within  her  reach,  than  many  of  the  most 
eminent  men  whom  I  have  been  acquainted  with. 

But  these  are  not  the  women  by  whom  men  are  governed, 
nor  do  such  women  ever  think  of  it.  In  England  I  am  sure 
there  never  was  an  example  of  a  young  and  beautiful  woman 
attempting  to  govern  a  man  of  common  understanding  pro- 
portioned to  her  in  age,  and  otherwise  accomplished,  if  she  were 
really  in  love  with  him.' 

I  shall  close  my  account  of  him  with  an  incident  which  is  all  to 
his  honour,  though  very  little  known  or  observed,  and  leave  the 
last  impression  of  his  character,  as  far  as  the  fact  goes,  entirely 
in  his  favour.  In  the  course  of  the  impeachment  of  Warren 
Hastings,  an  expression  escaped  Mr.  Burke  of  which  tlie  Indian 
party,  who  were  numerous,  and  always  supported  by  the  people 

'  I  have  omitted  a  long  digression  on  the  character  of  Louis  XIV.,  which 
only  shows  the  earnestness  with  which  Francis,  at  the  very  end  of  life,  and 
perishing  of  a  painful  disease,  still  argued  questions  of  old  historical  inte- 
rest.— (Editor.) 


462  APPENDIX. 

called  the  King's  friends  in  the  House  of  Commons,  thought 
they  could  make  some  material  advantage,  or  at  least  run  him 
down.  Having  occasion  to  allude  to  the  trial  and  execution  of 
Eaja  Nuncomar  at  Calcutta  in  1775,  he  called  it  the  murder  of 
Nuncomar,  and  in  direct  terms  charged  it  on  Warren  Hastings, 
by  the  hands  of  Sir  Elijah  Impey,  Chief  Justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Judicature.  These  words  were  spoken  in 
Westminster  Hall  on  the  21st  day  of  April  1789.  The  next 
day  a  motion  to  censure  him  for  it  was  made  in  the  House 
of  Commons.  Burke  either  was  not  there,  or  he  with- 
drew because  he  would  not  defend  himself.  Fox,  in  a  most 
powerful  and  convincing  speech,  maintained  that  the  House 
had  no  right  to  censure  all  or  any  of  their  managers  for  any- 
thing said  or  done  by  them  in  the  management  of  the  im- 
peachment, which  had  been  committed  to  their  discretion 
without  rules  or  instructions.  If  the  House  disapproved  of 
their  conduct  in  the  execution  of  the  trust,  all  that  could 
be  done  was  to  remove  the  present  managers  and  to  appoint 
others.  At  the  instance  of  Mr.  Pitt,  however,  a  vote  was  passed, 
'That  the  words  in  question' ought  not  to  have  been  spoken.' 
Mr.  Fox  then  declared  his  opinion  that  the  managers  ought  to 
resign  their  charges,  and  desire  the  House  to  commit  the  im- 
peachment to  other  hands.  This  debate  lasted  to  a  late  hour, 
and  the  next  morning  by  ten  o'clock  the  managers  were  to  take 
their  resolution  whether  they  would  or  would  not  go  again  into 
Westminster  Hall,  where  the  Lords  were  waiting  or  expected. 
Mr.  Fox  was  not  present,  so  that  there  was  no  time  to  consult 
him.  Mr.  Burke  received  the  pleasure  of  the  House  from  the 
Speaker,  with  respect  to  the  words  spoken  by  him;  the  managers 
went  into  the  Hall,  and  the  trial  was  continued.  Mr.  Fox  re- 
sented this  proceeding  as  unwise  in  itself,  as  well  as  a  great 
slight  of  him,  and  not  without  reason,  though  the  question  of 
instant  conduct  was  full  of  difficulty.  I  and  others  said  every- 
thing we  could  on  this  point  to  appease  his  just  indignation. 
In  the  end  he  was  so  far  pacified  that  he  continued  to  attend 
the  trial,  and  took  the  first  opportunity  that  offered  to  allude  to 
the  execution  of  Nuncomar,  when  he  made  the  following  de- 
claration: — 'My  Lords,  in  what  I  am  going  to  say  of  that 
transaction,  I  desire  to  apprise  your  Lordships  that  I  do  not 
speak  in  the  name  or  by  the  authority  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, but  in  my  own ;  I  declare,  then,  that  in  my  opinion  the 


APPENDIX.  463 

execution  of  the  Eaja   Nuncomar   was  a  foul    and   atrocious 
murder.' 

[Note. — In  1826  the  notorious  publisher,  Stockdale, 
printed  a  pamphlet,  which  he  entitled  '  Character  of  the 
late  Charles  James  Fox,  a  Posthumous  Sketch,  by  Junius.' 
In  the  preface  he  says  that  he  accidentally  met  with  a 
lord,  whose  name  is  withheld,  '  on  the  morning  of  the 
funeral  of  that  most  upright  and  able  Prime  Minister, 
honest  man,  and  Protestant  martyr,  the  Eight  Honour- 
able Spenser  Perceval,'  from  which  nobleman,  who  was 
deep  in  the  confidence  of  the  writer  of  Junius  (meaning, 
evidently,  of  Sir  Philip  Prancis),  he  obtained  a  manu- 
script '  Character  of  Mr.  Fox,  by  the  author  of  the  letters 
signed  Junius,  extracted  from  a  history  of  the  early  part 
of  Mr.  Pitt's  administration.'  The  '  Character '  then 
follows.  It  occupies  only  fifteen  pages.  Notwithstand- 
ing the  suspicious  character  of  the  introductory  remarks, 
it  may  possibly  be  Sir  Philip's,  the  style  certainly  re- 
sembling his.  But  it  relates  only  to  the  Coalition  and 
the  India  Bill,  and  is  quite  unconnected  with  the  essay 
here  printed. — Editor.] 


4G4  APPENDIX. 


No.  III. 

Characteristics  of  the  Kings  of  Ewjland. 

Among  the  manuscripts  left  by  Sir  Philip  Fjancis  is  an 
essay,  without  a  heading,  which  may  be  conveniently  thus 
entitled.  Whether  it  was  intended  as  the  introduction  to 
some  more  complete  work,  I  do  not  know.  It  was  (from 
the  contents)  the  composition  of  his  very  latest  years  ;  and 
it  is,  perhaps,  scarcely  just  to  his  memory  to  present  the 
reader  with  a  fragment  which  there  is  no  proof  that  he 
intended  to  pubhsh  in  its  present  shape.  Still  it  is 
characteristic  of  the  avithor,  even  in  the  violence  of  the 
language,  which  I  have  been  forced  in  part  to  suppress, 
and  may  be  thought  worthy  of  preservation. — (Editor.) 

Nihil  est  in  Mstoria,  purS,  et  illustri  brevitate  dulcius. 

There  is  no  general  or  innate  spirit  of  opposition  to  Grovern- 
ment  in  this  country  or  any  other.  Power  is  always  and  every- 
where the  aggressor.  The  multitude,  or  the  many,  are  natu- 
rally prone  to  follow  the  few.  They  feel  and  submit  to  injury 
long  before  they  resent,  by  habit  or  indolence,  or  because  they 
know  they  must  be  governed,  and  then  they  are  calumniated, 
as  if  they  had  provoked  it.  Edmund  Burke  dwells  with  vehe- 
mence and  almost  with  rapture,  on  the  punishments  inflicted  on 
tlie  peasantry  of  France  for  rebellion  against  their  aristocracy  in 
1358,  but  says  not  a  word  of  their  antecedent  afflictions,  or  of 
the  horrible  aggressions  against  those  miserable  people,  com- 
mitted by  the  nobility  and  the  banditti  under  them,  who  sallied 
from  their  dens  to  prey  on  the  country.  Injustice  and  ca- 
lumny play  into  each  other's  hands.     While  force  is  able  to 


APPENDIX.  465 

act,  fraud  and  falsehood  are  ready  to  justify.  In  other  times 
the  English  have  been  driven  to  resistance  by  necessity,  or 
dragged  into  civil  war  by  the  ambition  of  their  chiefs  or  owners, 
called  barons;  but  deliberate  rebellion  against  the  crown  never 
was  or  ever  could  be  a  spontaneous  act,  much  less  a  concerted 
scheme  of  the  people,  nor  would  it  be  attempted  now  in  any 
extremity.  The  fear  of  change  perplexes  or  depresses  all  men 
possessing  or  expecting  under  the  present  establishment,  espe- 
cially the  public  creditor  and  his  endless  connections,  who 
derive  a  precarious  annuity  from  the  funds,  and  to  whom,  as 
they  fancy,  the  whole  land  is  mortgaged.  In  other  ranks  of 
life,  the  long  sufferings  which  do  not  kill  the  being  make  him 
passive.  The  generality  are  satisfied  with  their  lot,  or  bear  it 
patiently  because  they  are  used  to  it  and  know  no  better.  A 
popular  insurrection,  if  very  general,  might  succeed  at  first,  but 
could  not  last  long  for  want  of  counsel,  leaders,  and  discipline, 
by  which  the  few  direct  the  many,  and  without  which  there  can 
be  no  concerted  plan,  no  union  of  design  or  perseverance  in  ac- 
tion. The  English  peasantry  who  took  up  arms  under  Wat  Tyler 
and  Jack  Cade  were  compelled  by  grievances  insupportable,  by 
a  vile  government  pressing  directly  on  the  lowest  classes,  by  a 
rapacious  clergy,  and  by  an  execrable  nobility.  The  crimes  of 
the  peasantry  in  the  process,  and  their  ruin  in  the  result  of  their 
insurrection,  prove  nothing  against  the  original  rio-ht  of  their 
cause ;  unless  it  be  contended  that  there  is  no  guilt  but  in  re- 
taliation, that  success  in  this  world  is  always  on  the  side  of 
justice,  and  that  he  who  suffers  in  the  contest,  or  is  condemned 
by  the  event,  must  of  course  have  been  the  aggressor.  But 
this  is  a  doctrine  which,  if  it  could  be  reconciled  to  experience 
no  Christian  Church  or  priesthood  would  assent  to  or  endure 
because  it  annihilates  the  supposed  necessity  of  a  future  retribu- 
tion; or,  in  their  own  cant,  would  disturb  the  final  proportions 
of  eternal  justice,  and  shake  their  own  establishment,  the  only 
object  they  have  at  heart  or  think  of.  Submit  and  suffer 
now;  you  shall  be  rewarded  for  it  hereafter.^  Neither  is  it 
likely  that  qualified  men,  who  have  anything  to  lose,  will  under- 
take the  direction  of  such  hazardous  enterprises,  or  trust  them- 
selves to  the  natural  inconstancy  of  the  multitude.     The  revo- 

•  In  1380,  tlie  Commons  of  England  declared,  in  full  Parliament  that  the 
clergy  possessed  a  third  part  of  the  kingdom. 
VOL.  II.  H  H 


466  APPENDIX. 

lution  in  1688  could  not  have  been  accomplished  without  t 
assistance  of  a  foreign  force.  If  laws  and  magistrates  are  w: 
enough  to  give  protection  against  capricious  personal  wrong 
violent  injury,  or  even  to  profess  it,  the  people  will  be  conte 
to  think  it  as  much  as  they  are  entitled  to.  If  another  revol 
tion,  in  favour  of  liberty,  were  to  happen  in  England,  it  mi 
be  by  invasion  or  with  the  help  of  it.  Even  in  Ireland,  wi 
superstition  acting  on  positive  misery,  a  mere  insurrecti 
of  the  lower  classes,  however  numerous,  could  not  preva 
The  House  of  Stuart  is  gone ;  and  if  any  of  that  wretched  ra 
had  remained,  no  use  could  be  made  of  them.  For  who  but 
senseless  Eoman  Catholic  would  submit  to  be  governed  by 
superstitious  despot  and  an  arbitrary  priest?  All  positi 
institutions  are  in  favour  of  possession.  Of  course  he  who  pc 
sesses  is  party  in  the  system,  and  will  hear  of  no  change.  T' 
powers  of  the  State  have  no  object  or  occupation  at  best  but 
secure  and  enforce  the  actual  establishment  of  power  and  di 
tribution  of  profit,  whatever  it  may  be,  and  in  every  depai 
ment.  No  fundamental  abuse  is  to  be  corrected,  because 
would  be  or  it  would  lead  to  innovation,  and,  sooner  or  late 
shake  foundations.  An  immense  standing  army  introduc( 
into  an  island  by  a  foreign  dynasty,  on  Grerman  principles,  ai 
now  identified  with  the  Grovernment,  insures  us  from  a  civil  ws 
and  this  is  called  domestic  tranquillity.  Under  a  long  reign 
corruption  and  decay,  the  few  who  might  have  remembered  a: 
other  state  of  things  are  dead  or  superannuated.  The  presei 
generation  are  accustomed  to  what  they  see,  and  having  see 
nothing  better,  will  not  believe  that  it  ever  was  otherwis( 
or  they  are  consoled  with  hearing  and  being  assured  that  the 
are  still  better  provided  for  than  any  of  their  neighbours  on  tl 
Continent.  With  that  consolation  they  are  satisfied  and  look  i 
farther. 

The  constant  success  of  a  life  of  deceit  is  supposed  to  indicai 
some  special  wisdom;  and  along  possession  of  power  is  venerate 
at  last  for  possessing  many  virtues.  We  have  seen  a  king  ( 
England,  a  little  better  than  idiot  from  his  youth,  stone  blin( 
stark  mad,  and  superannuated,  yet  just  as  fit  as  ever  he  was  1 
govern  a  people,  who  are  properly  called  his,  because  they  c 
really  and  seriously  think  they  belong  to  him ;  and  so  they  ai 
taught  by  the  clergy.  In  this  human  creature  alone  longevii 
constitutes  merit ;  as  if  there  were  some  virtue  attached  t 


APPENDIX.  467 

animal  duration ;  as  if  the  moral  character  were  necessarily- 
improved  with  keeping,  and  the  intellectual  power  could  not  be 
impaired  by  waste.  Be  it  so ;  a  true  account  of  such  a  person 
and  such  a  people  may  serve  for  an  example  and  a  warning  to 
those  who,  in  process  of  time,  may  succeed  us.  It  can  be  of  no 
use,  nor  do  I  desire  it  should,  to  the  present  generation  or  to 
their  immediate  heirs.  The  person,  the  system,  and  with  a  few 
singular  exceptions  the  nation,  are  worthy  of  one  another. 
Eight  reason  has  but  little  employment  or  concern  in  the 
government  of  mankind.  In  matters  of  opinion,  the  higher 
ranks  are  or  pretend  to  be  awed  by  names  and  authorities  just 
as  much  as  the  populace,  and  generally  by  the  worst.  Historians 
draw  characters,  as  if  they  were  writing  for  the  stage,  without 
knowledge  or  penetration,  from  mere  ignorance  and  vanity,  but 
chiefly  to  promote  some  personal  or  political  interest.  ^The 
actual  holders  of  power,  at  all  times,  are  essentially  served  by 
the  praises  given  to  their  predecessors ;  for  what  can  they  desire 
better  than  to  see  their  own  principles  and  actions  justified  by 
laudable  examples,  and  men  like  themselves  rewarded  with 
fame  ?  Their  turn  will  come  next,  or  they  expect  it.  Heroes 
and  conquerors  stand  first  among  the  enemies  of  mankind. 
These  savage  animals  destroy  more  than  they  can  eat,  and  are 
glutted  with  prey,  which  they  cannot  consume.  Then  come  the 
vermin,  an  endless  train  of  idle  pacific  princes,  of  priests,  cour- 
tiers, lawyers,  and  politicians  who,  without  directly  hazarding 
their  personal  safety  have  done  as  much  mischief,  in  another 
way,  by  fomenting  treacherous  wars  among  their  neighbours  and 
ruining  their  own  country,  sometimes  with  the  help  of  the 
greatest  abilities  in  it.  Those  beings  too  are  perpetually  held 
up  for  admiration.  Thus  our  judgment  is  perverted  from  our 
youth,  and  the  true  uses  of  history  defeated.  Mere  facts  are 
sufficient  for  a  gazette,  but  teach  nothing.  What  we  want  is 
moral  example,  the  true  personal  character,  the  essential  quality 
of  human  actions,  the  real  motive  stripped  of  its  pretensions,  a 
vigorous  unsparing  censure,  and,  above  all,  a  rational  standard, 
by  which,  with  a  reasonable  allowance  for  human  frailty,  the 
merits  of  eminent  men  should  be  strictly  measured.  Some  of 
the  ancient  historians  had  those  objects.  They  knew  their  duty, 
and  were  qualified  to  perform  it.  Among  the  moderns  very 
few,  and  in  England  hardly  any,  because  we  have  hitherto  been 
a  nation  of  parties;  and  now  even  party  principles,  which  kept 


468  APPENDIX. 

up  a  national  spirit,  or  something  like  it,  in  the  country,  ar 
gone,  and  have  left  nothing  but  mercenary  debaters  in  thei 
place. 

Even  the  language  of  faction  is  never  heard  but  in  a  taver 
or  in  the  streets.  The  poor  degraded  mind  of  the  English  i 
too  flat  and  feeble  to  ferment.  Moderation  and  prudence  ar 
individual  qualities  pretending  to  be  virtues,  or  in  efifect  onl 
specious  names  assumed  by  caution  or  cowardice.  But  nation 
cannot  be  safe,  much  less  free,  without  some  hazardous  energies 
or  passions,  that  may  be  abused.  We  are  not  made  to  attaii 
perfection  directly,  or  by  aiming  at  it.  To  reach  the  mediuE 
you  must  try  to  overshoot  the  mark.  The  reign  of  Greorge  th 
Third  forms  a  deep  and  dreadful  chasm  in  the  history  of  England 
though  partly  loaded  with  ruins  and  rubbish,  in  which  the  frag 
ments  of  broken  principles  and  mutilated  institutions  will  b 
found  hereafter.  Without  a  personal  quality  of  any  kind  t 
entitle  him  to  distinction,  a  high  station  has  made  this  man  a] 
object  to  be  looked  at  with  some  degree  of  wonder,  consideriuj 
the  enormous  mischiefs  which  position  alone  has  enabled  sue! 
a  being,  without  knowing  it,  to  inflict  on  his  fellow-creatures 
The  greatest  events,  produced  by  vile  contrivers,  or  insignifican 
causes,  have  happened  in  his  time.  A  complete  revolution  ii 
the  moral  character  as  well  as  in  the  political  principles  an( 
general  condition  of  the  country  accomplished  by  the  meanes 
instruments  in  the  hands  of  talking  politicians ;  a  stately  con 
stitution  preserving  its  antiquated  forms,  and  ceremonies,  an( 
increasing  its  vain  ornaments,  with  a  tottering  foundation  ;  ai 
ancient  edifice,  not  blasted  by  lightning  or  demolished  by  ai 
earthquake,  but  undermined  by  vermin  and  wasted  by  a  dr 
rot ;  and  finally  a  stupid  people  checked  by  a  fool,  and  fond  o 
the  author  of  their  ruin.  While  he  is  permitted  to  live,  hi 
animal  character  and  the  principles  of  his  government  may  b 
favoured  or  disputed  ;  but,  as  to  their  effects,  it  is  not  possibl 
that  even  the  next  generation  should  be  or  pretend  to  be  mis 
taken.  We  may  continue  to  stagger  under  our  burthens  ;  bu 
our  children  must  shake  them  off,  or  be  crushed  by  them.  Fo 
the  present,  an  enormous  expense  is  supported  by  an  unlimite( 
coinage  of  paper,  transferred  from  hand  to  hand  by  mere  agree 
ment  or  acquiescence  among  ourselves,  while  the  substance  o 
the  country  is  carried  away  to  answer  an  immense  variety  o 
services  and  demands,  which  cannot  be  satisfied  without  a  rea 


APPENDIX.  469 

payment.  Yet  so  little  am  I  prejudiced  on  this  or  any  other 
subject  touching  the  present  Government,  that,  in  1807,  I 
thought  the  King's  life  of  importance  to  the  tranquillity  of  the 
country,  and  that  his  age  and  authority  might  be  some  security 
against  troubles  and  commotions  not  unlikely  to  break  out  on 
the  accession  of  his  eldest  son. 

My  time  is  of  no  value,  and  I  write  without  hope,  except  to 
divert  my  attention  from  sorrows  which  have  made  the  affairs 
of  this  world,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned  in  them,  indifferent 
to  me. 

He  who  attempts  to  deliver  a  true  account  of  his  own  times, 
and  of  persons  thoroughly  known  to  him,  whatever  his  facul- 
ties may  be,  will  find  himself  compelled  by  his  subject  to  write 
without  dignity.  We  are  too  near  the  farce  and  the  actors,  and 
we  know  them  too  well  in  their  masques,  to  speak  of  them  with 
gravity  and  decorum.  Of  all  the  considerable  men  now  dead, 
who  have  had  a  share  in  the  government  of  the  country  since 
the  year  1760,  I  am  not  able  to  name  one  who  was  not,  within 
my  own  knowledge,  more  or  less  a  pretender,  if  not  positively 
an  impostor,  except  perhaps  the  Marquis  of  Eockingham,  who, 
I  believe,  was  honest  enough  on  his  own  aristocratical  principles, 
and  for  that  reason  personally  feared  and  detested  by  George  the 
Third ;  not  one  who  never  deviated  from  his  professions,  who 
ended  well,  or  who  was  consistent  to  the  last.  Lord  Chatham 
was  a  great  actor,  who  latterly  identified  himself  with  the  high 
part  he  acted.  He  talked  of  public  virtue  till  he  felt  it.  His 
son  was  a  mere  moral  effeminate,  whose  mind  had  been  carefully 
cut  out  for  declamation  more  than  debate,  and  gifted  with  a 
sonorous  organ  for  the  utterance  of  words  with  a  choice  and 
fluency  which  astonished  those  who  heard  him  for  the  first  or 
second  time.  That  impression  wore  off,  and  generally  left 
nothing  or  very  little  to  command  attention,  much  less  to  fix 
it  on  the  memory.  He  had  no  inequalities ;  but  he  was  a 
master  of  words,  which,  having  no  sterling  value,  he  used  as 
counters.  He  was  personally  chaste  enough  to  be  the  leader  of  a 
monastery ;  and  this  was  puffed  for  him  as  a  marvellous  merit  in 
a  youthful  minister,  and  almost  a  qualification  for  high  ofiSce. 
With  or  without  abilities,  great  power  is  quite  enough  to  do 
mischief  to  any  extent.  But  great  actions  are  inseparable  from 
wise  purposes,  and  will  never  be  performed  by  young  men 
divested  of  the  passions  natural  to  youth.     The  vessel  we  are 


470  APPENDIX. 

embarked  in  cannot  sail  without  a  wind.  One  vile  habit  or 
physical  propensity  he  had,  which  seemed  inconsistent  with  the 
rest  of  his  private  life  and  constitutional  disposition.  In  the 
fulsome  society  of  Henry  Dundas,  a  drunken  profligate  Scot, 
he  drank  to  excess,  not  by  occasional  allurements  of  mirth  or 
casual  gaiety,  but  incessantly,  and  always  strong  liquors.  His 
stomach,  it  was  said,  became  habituated  to  wine  of  that  quality, 
and  could  not  act,  or  suffer  his  mind  to  act,  without  it.  To 
this  low,  and  at  last,  perhaps,  necessary  indulgence,  his  long 
sickness  and  early  dissolution  may  be  traced.  I  mention  him 
now,  and  out  of  his  place,  because  it  is  not  likely  that  I  should 
live  to  reach  him  historically.  Though  I  had  no  acquaintance 
or  intercourse  with  him  beyond  the  House  of  Commons,  it  is 
but  fair  and  honourable  in  me  to  admit  that  I  felt  a  constant 
spontaneous  dislike  to  him ;  and  though,  in  some  of  the  parts 
of  speech,  he  was  admirable,  I  did  never  admire  him  above 
once  or  twice  for  any  superiority,  but  an  astonishing  fluency  and 
choice  of  correct  language ;  very  rarely  eloquence,  of  v/hich  the 
essence  is  immediately  to  persuade ;  but,  it  was  elocution  perfect. 
All  the  early  impressions  I  received  of  William  Pitt  were  given 
me,  before  I  had  seen  him,  by  Edmund  Burke  in  1783  and 
1784,  compared  to  which  my  present  opinion  of  him  would  be 
thought  a  panegyric. 

Charles  Fox,  William  Windham,  and  Edmund  Burke  are 
separately  provided  for  and  recorded.'  The  rest  are  not  worth 
notice  in  themselves,  and,  if  they  did  not  belong  to  the 
domestic  history  of  their  time,  ought  to  be  consigned  to  obli- 
vion ;  such  as  Lord  Bute,  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales, 
Lord  Mansfield,  Henry  Fox,  and  a  long  succession  of  second-hand 
malefactors  of  the  same  school,  whom  George  the  Third  called 
his  friends,  whom  he  was  sometimes  forced  to  part  with,  and 
never  failed  to  recall  as  soon  as  an  opportunity  offered.  Ex- 
amples ought  to  be  made  even  against  personal  inclination,  or 
history  ought  not  to  be  attempted  by  contemporaries,  who 
alone  can  write  truly  of  men  and  their  motives  because  they 
know  them.  Yet  who  can  be  perfectly  sure  of  his  own  impar- 
tiality in  speaking  of  actions  which  may  be  variously  accounted 
for,  and  of  actors  whom  he  knew  behind  the  scenes,  unless  he 


'  The  character  of  Fox  is  printed  in  the  Appendix  to  thia  volume.     Those 
of  Windham  and  Burke  have  not  been  recovered. 


APPENDIX.  471 

happened  to  have  survived  them  long  enough  to  be  able  to 
speak  of  them  without  resentment  or  disgust  ?  At  the  altar  of 
truth  the  most  ignoble  victims  are  the  first  and  the  fittest  to  be 
sacrificed,  and  it  would  be  happy  for  the  historian,  from  whom 
no  others  were  required.  But  the  entrails  of  all  of  them  are 
much  alike.  Many  public  persons  of  high  character  have  I 
known,  to  whose  personal  punishment  I  would  not  have  con- 
tributed, though  I  knew  they  deserved  it.  But  now  they  are 
gone.  The  sense  of  shame  is  not  posthumous,  and  they  are 
beyond  the  reach  of  it.  Still  the  dead  body  may  be  of  use. 
Anatomy  is  not  to  be  taught  without  dissection,  which  helps 
for  a  while  to  save  even  the  carcase  from  putrefaction. 

They  who  intend  to  court  some  present  favour  or  to  impose 
their  prejudices  on  posterity,  may  profess  to  write  with  candour, 
which,  in  effect  and  at  best,  is  only  balancing  judiciously 
between  right  and  wrong,  and  arguing  the  case  with  an  air  of 
equanimity.  The  most  disinterested  among  us  are  delighted 
to  think  that  they  shall  live  in  their  children,  and  that  their 
opinions  will  survive  them ;  for  otherwise  why  should  a  selfish 
being  wish  to  propagate  falsehood  beyond  his  own  life,  when 
nothing  can  be  gained  by  it  ?  I  may  possibly  see  these  objects 
through  a  medium  that  deceives  me ;  but  my  resolution  is  to 
speak  truth,  which  cannot  be  done  in  a  language  appropriated 
to  the  subject  and  the  parties  without  asperity  and  scorn.  I 
cannot  reconcile  it  to  any  honest  principle  to  find  a  felon  guilty 
and  then  recommend  him  to  mercy. 

The  fundamental  laws  of  France  excluded  the  female  line  of 
descendants  from  succeeding  to  the  crown.'  For  want  of  a 
similar  institution,  England,  in  the  last  two  centuries,  has  for 
the  most  part  been  sacrificed  to  foreigners.  The  hereditary 
title  of  James  the  First  acknowledged  as  indefeasible  aod 
submitted  to  without  conditions,  was  soou  converted  into  divine 
right,  which  means  nothing  but  the  temporal  power  of  one  man 
over  many,  and  not  to  be  accountable  in  this  world  for  the  use 
he  makes  of  it.  While  the  nation  had  an  English  spirit,  the 
arbitrary  pretensions  of  James  and  his  family  were  resisted  by 

'  La  nation  franjoise  se  piSn^tra  des  lors  de  oe  grand  int^ret,  qui  est 
I'objet  veritaUe  de  la  loi  salique  en  ce  qui  concerne  la  succession  au  trone, 
c'est  qu'atictin  Stranger  ne  puisse  regner  sur  la  France ;  ce  qui  pourroit  arriver 
et  ce  qui  arrive  ohez  presque  toutes  les  autres  nations  par  les  mariages  des 
femmes  en  pays  ilvsmgeis.—  Gaillard,  i.  27. 


472  APPENDIX. 

civil  war,  anarchy,  and  revolution.  If  he  had  been  tolerably 
qualified  for  his  new  office,  or,  in  any  rational  sense,  equal  to 
his  station,  it  would  be  of  little  moment  at  any  time  whether 
he  was  the  son  of  Henry  Darnley  or  of  David  Eizzio.  A  worthy 
and  honourable  man  in  possession  makes  good  his  title.  If  the 
place  devolve  to  him  by  inheritance,  it  is  a  material  advantage, 
because  it  saves  a  dispute  about  succession.  Divine  right  to  be 
a  king  or  constable  is  a  mere  mummery,  and  equally  in  both. 
Who  knows,  or  who  cares,  whether  Alfred  was  the  legitimate 
'  son  of  his  predecessor  ?  A  son  of  Queen  Elizabeth  would  at 
least  have  been  an  Englishman. 

Subsequent  failures  in  the  male  line  introduced  another 
foreign  family,  with  different  professions,  a  similar  character 
brutified,  and  in  the  end  with  worse  effects.  The  Stuarts  had 
no  direct  interests  or  avocations  out  of  their  own  isla.nd.  The 
Hanoverians  thought  of  nothing  but  their  possessions  on  the 
Continent,  as  if  they  were  dazzled  with  their  new  settlement, 
and  were  not  sure  of  keeping  it,  and  how  to  make  England 
subservient  to  German  politics  and  to  the  advantages  of  Han- 
over. That  partiality  has  lately  ended  in  the  destruction  of  its 
object.  During  war,  England  was  nowhere  so  vulnerable  by 
France  as  in  this  Electorate ;  and,  whenever  peace  came,  the 
losses  of  the  Elector  were  always  made  good  at  the  expense  of 
the  King  or  rather  of  the  kingdom.  Between  the  families  of 
Stuart  and  Brunswick,  one  great  and  most  resolute  man  inter- 
vened for  the  general  protection  of  Europe.  But  he  wanted 
wisdom  or  inclination  to  promote  the  independence  and  happi- 
ness of  this  island.  He  had  no  English  principles,  and  still  less 
an  English  heart.  The  Salique  law  neither  did  nor  was  meant 
to  provide  against  the  administration  of  women,  to  whom  the 
Eegency  of  France  has  been  often  trusted ;  but  to  prevent  the 
greatest  of  all  evils,  the  introduction  of  strangers  into  the  do- 
mestic government,  particularly  their  nearest  neighbours,  who 
are  usually  the  worst  of  all  strangers.  Under  the  House  of  Han- 
over, the  names  and  forms  of  the  English  Constitution  have 
hitherto  been  preserved,  and  through  the  medium  of  a  Parlia- 
ment a  power  more  absolute  and  ruinous  than  that  which  the 
Stuarts  claim  directly  from  God,  has  gradually  centred  in  the 
Crown.  Prerogative  at  first  gave  way  to  influence,  and  now  the 
influence  is  ready  to  support  whatever  the  king  chooses  to  call 
his  royal  prerogative.  All  men  know  the  fact,  and  no  man  cares  foi 


APPENDIX.  473 

the  consequence.  Everything,  that  once  was  elevated  and  gene- 
rous in  the  national  character,  is  either  tainted  by  corruption  or 
depressed  by  the  cares  and  distresses  of  a  heavy  overwhelming 
taxation,  and  the  incessant  tormenting  vigilance  of  those  who 
gather  it.  In  the  lower  ranks  of  fortune,  public  spirit  is  sunk 
and  lost  in  the  real  necessity  and  daily  anxiety  of  providing  for 
existence.  In  the  higher  classes,  the  same  anxiety  prevails 
without  the  necessity,  except  that  which  their  own  folly,  in 
throwing  away  their  independence,  has  created,  and  drives  them 
to  resort  to  the  unbounded  patronage  of  the  Crown  for  lucrative 
places  for  themselves  and  a  provision  for  all  their  relations  and 
dependents  at  the  expense  of  the  public.  The  nation  itself  is 
growing  old  and  callous,  while  individuals  are  satisfied  with 
hoping  without  reason  or  probability,  that  some  form  of  go- 
vernment and  some  system  of  protection  will  last  their  time. 
The  late  revolutions  in  France  have  made  the  English  in  any 
rank  above  the  populace  afraid  of  liberty,  and  many  of  them 
ashamed  of  it.  Under  that  shelter,  the  meanest  men  derive  a 
strutting  sort  of  pride  and  importance  from  their  submission  to 
power,  and  insult  us  with  the  security  of  obedience  and  the 
fatal  consequences  of  resistance.  It  is  melancholy  to  those 
who  have  any  spirit  or  sense  of  true  honour  left,  to  see  such  a 
nation  as  England  vain  of  its  chains,  and  wearing  them  like 
ornaments. 

The  mind  of  the  people  is  corrupted,  even  in  those  who  have 
no  share  in  the  corruption  but  to  pay  for  it ;  and  good  men,  for 
some  there  are,  believing  the  case  to  be  desperate,  endeavour  to 
shut  their  eyes  to  it.  The  whole  circulation  of  the  empire  re- 
duced to  paper,  an  expense  so  lavish  that  no  other  medium  of 
payment  can  reach  it,  the  weight  of  the  public  debt,  the  multi- 
tudes who  live  by  the  stocks,  and  the  terror  of  a  national  bank- 
ruptcy, are  sufficient  to  support  any  government,  and  to  extin- 
guish the  possibility  of  any  change  by  resistance.  A  nation 
governed  by  fear  without  hope  is  a  new  case  in  the  history  of 
mankind.  Is  it  worth  while  to  exhibit  to  such  a  nation  the 
causes  and  the  authors  of  its  ruin  ?  I  have  no  other  occupation 
leftj  and  any  employment  is  better  for  the  mind  than  to  prey 
upon  itself. 

Of  all  his  own  tribe,  James  the  First  seems  to  have  been  one 
of  the  least  guilty,  because  he  was  certainly  and  sincerely  the 
weakest  and  the  vainest.     Though  full  as  worthless,  he  was  not 


474  APPENDIX. 

quite  so  false  as  the  rest  of  his  family.  He  kept  no  faith,  but 
he  was  no  grea.t  hypocrite ;  and,  if  there  had  been  any  good  in 
him,  his  reception  in  England  would  have  spoiled  him  for  an 
English  king.  Of  himself  and  his  wisdom,  and  of  his  royal 
rights,  he  said  nothing  but  what  he  thought ;  and  how  could  he 
think  otherwise,  when  not  only  the  court,  but  the  Church  of 
England,  worshipped  him  like  an  idol,  and  grave  prelates 
assured  him  that  he  was  the  breath  of  their  nostrils  ?  Princes 
seldom  suffer  by  a  comparison  with  one  another.  In  a  general 
degradation  there  is  no  degree.  If  James  had  not  been  the 
successor  of  Elizabeth,  who,  with  safe  despotic  prudence,  go- 
verned the  few  by  the  many  ;  or  if  he  had  not  been  con- 
temporary with  Henry  IV.  of  France,  who,  with  many  defects, 
had  elevation  of  mind  and  a  feeling  heart,  he  might  not,  as  a 
mere  king,  have  appeared  much  more  contemptible  than  other 
beings  of  the  same  order ;  and,  if  he  had  fairly  left  Scotland  to 
itself,  the  hatred  and  disgust  which  his  pretended  partiality  to 
the  Scotch,  a  real  passion  for  his  minions  in  particular,  and  the 
gross  and  shocking  depravity  of  his  manners  excited  in  England, 
might  have  subsided.  In  himself  he  was  equally  despicable 
and  odious.  One  personal  vice  he  had  more  than  his  country- 
men, and  one  virtue  less.  An  aversion  to  women,  when  the 
passion  is  not  extinguished  by  time,  is  incompatible  with  any 
manly  qualities.  Nature  cannot  be  driven  out  of  her  course  with 
impunity.  His  pretensions  to  power  were  exorbitant,  but  not 
vigorous,  because  his  mind  was  not  masculine  like  that  of 
Elizabeth.  If  his  principles  and  presumption  had  been  sup- 
ported by  courage,  he  might  have  enslaved  England  before  the 
nation  was  prepared  to  oppose  him.  But  these  and  all  his  bad 
qualities  were  happily  checked  in  their  operation  by  excessive 
timidity.  He  talked  big  to  his  English  subjects,  because  he 
found  they  were  humble,  and  he  fawned  on  the  Scotch,  who' 
were  apt  to  make  very  free  with  their  kings,  because  he  was 
afraid  of  them.  The  Scotch  and  he  knew  one  another,  and  the 
English,  for  a  long  time,  were  the  dupes  of  both. 

Archbishop  Spotswood  says  that,  '  when  the  Scotch  Parlia- 
ment met  in  1567,  a  long  consultation  was  held  what  course 
should  be  taken  with  Queen  Mary.  Some  urged  that  she  should 
be  arraign'd,  and  punished  according  to  the  law:  others  reasoned, 

'  Carte's  Ormonde,  i.  355. 


APPENDIX.  475 

that  whatsoever  authority  was  in  the  kingdom  was  derived  from 
her,  and  was  revocable  at  her  pleasure  ;  so  as  she  could  not  be 
arraign'd,  or  brought  to  trial  before  any  inferior  judge.  And 
when  it  was  replied  that  the  Scots,  from  the  very  beginning  of 
the  kingdom,  had  been  in  use  to  censure  and  punish  their 
kings  in  case  of  grievous  crimes,  the  greater  number  disliking 
that  course,  it  was  concluded  that  she  should  be  detained,  and 
kept  in  perpetual  prison.' 

They  who  thought  it  unlawful  to  punish  their  sovereign 
ought  not  to  have  agreed  in  this  conclusion.  On  their  prin- 
ciples, it  could  not  be  defended  otherwise  than  by  aflSrming  that 
deposition  and  imprisonment  for  life,  to  which  they  condemned 
their  queen  without  charge  or  trial,  was  no  punishment. 

In  public  and  private  life,  what  James  loved  best,  next  to 
hunting  and  his  minions,  was  debate  ;  and  what  he  hated  most 
was  war.  For  hatred  is  never  so  hearty  as  when  it  is  mixed 
with  fear.  So  his  political  character  was  indolent,  busy,  and 
ridiculous.  His  government  had  no  dignity  or  vigour,  but  his 
reign  was  peaceable,  without  any  of  the  advantages  of  peace. 

The  manly  character  of  England  was  saved  by  a  civil  war. 
A  pugnacious  animal  that  leaves  off  fighting,  will  sooner  or 
later  die  on  a  dunghill ;  for  though  vanity  led  him  into  Conti- 
nental connections,  no  interest  or  reproach  could  force  him  into 
a  foreign  war,  while  he  wasted  the  treasure  by  which  it  might 
have  been  supported  in  foolish  embassies  and  all  manner  of 
extravagance. 

With  a  higher  spirit  and  more  courage,  he  would  probably 
have  gone  all  lengths  in  German  politics ;  and,  instead  of  dip- 
ping feebly  as  he  did,  would  have  plunged  the  nation  resolutely 
into  a  contest  for  the  Palatinate. 

He  had  the  example  but  not  the  wisdom  of  Elizabeth,  to  lend 
her  name,  to  foment,  to  assist,  and  to  supply,  but  never  to 
be  a  principal  in  Continental  quarrels.  Of  that  compounded 
policy,  by  which  an  island  near  a  continent  should  be  governed, 
he  had  no  conception.  Wiser  men  in  later  times  have  known 
the  medium  without  observing  it,  as  if  vicinity  created  no 
sympathy,  or  separation  left  no  common  interest.  Since  the 
accession  of  the  Hanoverian  family,  the  Tories  said  they 
would  have  no  connection  or  intercourse  with  Grermany.  The 
Whigs  maintained  that  England  could  not  be  safe  without  Con- 
tinental, which  meant '  nothing  but  German  alliances,  which 


476  APPENDIX. 

could  not  be  obtained  without  subsidies;  that  is,  the  powers 
of  that  part  of  the  Continent  which  was  most  exposed  would 
not  even  defend  themselves  against  France,  unless  they  were 
paid  for  it  by  England.  In  truth,  one  of  these  parties  meant 
nothing  but  to  force  themselves  into  office,  by  thwarting  the 
electoral  views  and  interests  of  the  family  on  the  throne ;  and 
the  other  to  secure  themselves  in  the  possession  of  power  and 
profit  by  a  perpetual  and  shameless  sacrifice  of  England  to 
Hanover.  In  1806,  it  was  asserted  by  Lord  Granville  in  the 
House  of  Lords,  that  the  defence  of  Hanover  was  as  dear  to  him 
as  that  of  Hampshire.  This  declaration  was  received  without 
indignation  by  his  peers,  because  it  excited  no  surprise.  Every 
man  who  heard  him,  knew  that  what  he  meant  was  to  pay  court 
to  the  king,  and  that,  so  far,  he  was  in  earnest.  With  some 
abatement  in  the  terms,  but  none  in  the  meaning,  Charles  Fox 
maintained  a  similar  principle  on  the  same  occasion.  His 
advice  to  engage  England  in  a  war  with  Prussia,  for  the  re- 
covery of  Hanover  from  that  king,  who  had  gratefully  received 
it  from  the  bounty  of  Buonaparte,  could  not  be  justified  on  any 
other. 

The  foreign  policy  of  James  the  First  was  silly  and  degrad- 
ing, rather  than  essentially  injurious  to  England,  except  the  mis- 
chievous folly  of  marrying  his  son  to  a  Catholic  princess,  in  which 
at  last  he  unfortunately  succeeded.  At  home  his  extravagant 
pretensions,  unsupported  by  talents  or  resolution,  provoked  exa- 
mination and  encouraged  resistance.  He  had  very  little  sense  of 
religion,  though  he  talked  about  it  incessantly,  with  many  pedan- 
tic airs  of  learning,  and  no  sound  understanding  on  that  or  any 
other  subject.  Any  form  of  worship  and  any  creed  would  have 
equally  pleased  him,  whether  it  provided  for  a  church  and  a 
bishop,  or  a  mosque  and  a  mufti,  as  long  as  it  left  himself  at  the 
head  of  the  establishment  with  authority  to  argue  and  preach,  or 
if  that  failed,  with  power  to  dictate  and  to  persecute.  He  might 
possibly  have  been  taught  to  believe  that  a  Christian  kingdom 
could  not  be  quite  safe  without  a  hierarchy ;  or  that  there  could 
be  no  religion  without  a  priesthood,  or  passive  obedience  with- 
out a  formal  religion.  But  he  was  sure  that,  in  a  circle  of  grave 
divines,  he  should  never  want  flattery  and  admiration,  which  he 
thought  sincere,  though  he  was  not  an  idiot.  In  all  Christian 
monarchies  the  king  and  the  bishop  make  common  cause,  that 
is,  the  dupe  and  the  knave  are  united,  at  the  expense  of  one 


APPENDIX.  477 

of  them  for  the  benefit  of  the  other,  or  in  odium  tertii,  and  this 
they  call  Church  and  State.  If  there  happened  to  be  a  resolute 
person  on  the  throne,  who  refused  to  be  priest-ridden,  the  prelacy- 
resorted  to  his  son,  and  addressed  him  in  the  words  of  St.  Paul, 
'  Would  to  Grod  you  did  reign,  that  we  also  might  reign  with 
you.'  On  some  occasions,  when  the  Catholic  clergy  were  inde- 
pendent of  the  crown,  when  they  were  separated  by  celibac}'- 
from  the  community  not  only  of  their  country,  but  of  mankind, 
and  had  a  foreign  jurisdiction  to  appeal  to,  they  manfully  took 
part  with  the  barons  against  the  king,  and  forced  him  to  ac- 
knowledge the  rights  of  the  nation,  in  an  authentic  form,  of 
which  there  was  no  example  then,  nor  imitation  since,  in  any 
other  country.  Yet  it  is  difficult  to  conceive  a  more  irreligious 
and  mischievous  institution  than  that  of  the  English  clergy,  as 
it  then  stood.  For  even  in  their  resistance  to  the  usurpations 
of  the  Crown,  there  was  not  a  spark  of  patriotism  or  public 
spirit,  any  more  than  of  religion.  They  were  always  church- 
men and  nothing  else.  Fortunately  for  England,  the  prelacy 
had  a  direct  interest  of  their  own  in  opposing  and  limiting  the 
king's  power,  and  in  contributing  as  they  did  to  a  great  national 
benefit.  How  so  much,  or  how  any  general  good  could  have 
proceeded  from  an  evil  and  a  fraud  so  enormous  as  the  Catholic 
Church,  is  not  to  be  accounted  for  on  human  principles.  There 
would  be  no  justification,  in  our  eyes,  for  the  existence  of 
poison,  if,  in  some  extreme  cases,  it  did  not  act  as  a  medicine 
or  an  antidote. 

Let  them  who  have  any  doubt  about  the  true  character  of 
James,  look  to  his  vile  deceit  to  his  favourite  and  minion 
Somerset,  whom  now  he  hated  and  dreaded  as  an  accomplice  in 
some  criminal  act,  which  he  feared  he  might  reveal,  perhaps  the 
murder  of  his  eldest  son,  if  Prince  Henry  was  his  son,  and  cer- 
tainly the  partner  of  his  detestable  enjoyments.  At  parting 
with  this  wretch,  whom  he  had  secretly  ordered  to  be  arrested, 
he  embraced  him  as  usual  with  fulsome  fondness,  and  entreated 
him  to  hasten  his  return,  when  he  believed  or  hoped  that  he 
should  never  see  him  again.  Look  at  the  murder  of  Ealeigh. 
That  no  time  might  be  lost,  he  signed  the  warrant  for  his 
execution  before  the  judgment  had  passed,  and  then  he  went  a 
hunting.  Yet  of  this  vile  miserable  being  Ealeigh,  while-  a 
prisoner,  descended  to  affirm  that,  '  as  well  in  divine  as  human 
understanding,  he  had  exceeded  all  that  went  before  him  by 


478  APPENDIX. 

many  degrees,  and  that  he  could  say  much  more  of  the  king's 
majesty  without  flattery,'  and  this  he  thought  would  appease 
him.  The  submissions  of  such  a  victim,  by  far  the  greatest  per- 
son of  his  time,  provoke  horror  at  such  a  sacrifice. 

For  this  king  however,  and  his  royal  race,  not  one  of  whom 
could  be  accused  of  degeneracy,  a  modern  philosopher  has 
written  a  laboured  apology,  and  almost  a  panegyric,  in  the 
shape  of  a  history  false  and  base  enough  to  degrade  the  author, 
without  serving  the  cause,  or  answering  any  honest  purpose. 
All  that  I  know  of  Hume,  in  every  other  character,  makes  it 
unaccountable  to  me,  why  he  should  have  undertaken  such  a 
laborious  task  and  so  unworthy  of  him.  With  all  his  follies  and 
depravities,  James  was  not  a  downright  fool.  He  knew,  as  well 
as  we  do,  that,  when  he  consented  to  let  his  only  son  go  to 
Spain  in  quest  of  a  wife,  and  in  company  of  Buckingham,  it  was 
an  act  little  short  of  madness,  in  himself  much  more  than  in 
iheyn  ; — the  fact  is,  he  was  afraid  of  them  both,  but  chiefly  of 
Buckingham,  for  more  reasons  than  one.  He  got  a  short  respite 
by  his  submission ;  but  they,  or  one  of  them,  murdered  him 
at  last.  I  cannot  believe  that  this  unfinished,  ill-constructed 
creature  could  have  been  the  offspring  of  the  handsomest  man 
and  woman  at  that  time  in  Europe,  who  married  for  love.  The 
murder  of  David  Eizzio,  in  the  presence  of  the  queen,  who  was 
then  big  with  child,  would  have  been  too  barbarous  an  act  even 
for  the  savages  of  those  times,  if  he  had  not  been  suspected  of  a 
criminal  connection  with  her.^  A  recorded  sarcasm  of  Henry 
the  Fourth  of  France  is  sufficient  to  show  that  some  opinion 
to  that  effect  must  have  been  current  in  Europe  about  the 
real  father  of  James  the  First,  who  bore  no  resemblance  to 
Darnley. 

All  the  follies  and  principles  of  James  were  entailed  on  his 
successor  ;  but  in  him  the  follies  were  reformed  by  deportment, 
and  the  principles  maintained  with  obstinacy.  The  father  was 
conceited  about  himself.  The  son  was  not  so  proud  of  his  own 
qualifications,  as  vain  of  his  station  and  fond  of  the  paltry  cere- 
monials, which  help  to  shelter  these  kings  from  observation  by 
dazzling  the  multitude  and  keeping  sharper  eyes  at  a  distance. 
He  wore  the  crown  as  he  would  an  ornament,  that  denoted  his 

'  Vide  Osborne's  Letters;  and  Oldmixon's  History  of  the  Stuarts. 


APPENDIX.  479 

rank  rather  than  his  office  or  his  duties,  and  strutted  in  his  rohes 
like  a  king  in  a  tragedy,  or  a  herald  in  a  procession.  They 
who  latterly  were  best  acquainted  with  this  man,  though 
tempted  by  many  probable  advantages,  would  never  trust  him. 
By  others  it  is  said  that  his  promises  might  have  been  de- 
pended on,  because  he  was  rigorously  j  ust,  and  above  all  things 
sincere  in  the  piety  he  professed;  but  true  piety  makes  no 
professions.'  One  loyal  compiler,  who  calls  himself  an  English- 
man, has  had  the  courage  to  assert,  '  that  no  prince  had  ever 
more  lenity,  compassion,  and  probity,  in  his  nature,  and  that  he 
was  so  great  a  lover  of  justice,  that  no  temptation  could  dispose 
him  to  a  wrongful  action.'  In  a  common  man,  allowance  may 
be  made  for  difficulties  of  situation  and  personal  distresses.  If 
exalted  virtue  were  not  rare,  it  would  lose  the  distinction  that 
belongs  to  comparative  eminence.  Heroic  qualities  cannot  be 
common,  much  less  vulgar.  As  the  merits  of  men  are  usually 
measured  by  their  pretensions,  the  world  is  not  apt  to  exact  much 
from  him  who  pretends  to  very  little.  But  Charles  was  a  saint 
at  all  times,  and  is  now  a  martjT.  The  man  was  naturally  grave 
and  by  habit  formal.  His  personal  deportment  of  course  was 
well  enough  relished  in  Spain.  Then  he  was  very  regular  in 
his  devotions  ;  that  is,  he  was  exactly  as  religious  as  churchmen 
wished  to  make  him.  They  taught  him  the  full  value  of  mental 
reservations  and  appeals  to  heaven,  which  placed  his  sincerity 
beyond  the  reach  of  human  cognizance.  Almost  all  his  false- 
hoods were  asserted  on  the  word  of  a  King  and  a  Christian ;  as 
for  example,  that  he  had  never  given  to  the  Earl  of  Glamorgan 
those  commissions  and  powers,  which  were  then  known  by  many, 
and  now  are  known  by  all,  to  have  been  repeatedly  given.  Where 
he  learned  his  morality,  if  he  had  any,  or  by  whom  he  was  taught 
his  religion,  is  a  question  not  answered  by  history,  and  now  not 
to  be  resolved  by  any  rational  conjecture.  If  he  possessed  these 
virtues  at  any  time,  it  must  have  been  in  his  infancy  or  child- 
hood. For,  after  that  period,  he  had  no  example  or  instruction  to 
purify  his  morals,  but  the  licentious  discourses  and  filthy  prac- 
tices of  his  father,  the  high  doctrines  of  fawning  prelates,  and 
the  profligate  society  of  Buckingham.  ^  Such  was  the  school 
the  master,  and  the  education.     An  apology,  that  proves  no 

•  Carte,  iv.  608.  *  Vide  Milton, 


480  APPENDIX. 

merit,  is  a  confession.  At  a  later  period  he  learned  better 
manners  if  not  more  wisdom ;  but  his  insincerity  stuck  to  him, 
and,  the  more  he  appealed  to  God,  the  less  he  was  believed. 
The  Puritans  knew  the  value  of  those  appeals  as  well  as  he,  and 
were  as  ready  to  make  use  of  them.  His  jargon  wais  more  de- 
corous, or  less  absurd,  than  theirs,  but  equally  false ;  except  that 
he  and  Laud  were  in  earnest  about  forms  and  ceremonials, 
obeisance  to  the  altar,  position  of  the  communion  table,  &c. 
as  many  of  the  others  were  unquestionably  mad  enough  to 
be  enthusiasts  about  the  Covenant  and  the  Book  of  Eeve- 
lations,  and  the  kingdom  of  Christ,  and  such  trumpery.  The 
essential  difference  between  them  was  that  Charles  was  better 
informed,  whereas  most  of  the  Puritans,  who  read  nothing  but 
the  Bible,  were  excessively  ignorant.  Their  nonsense  was  just 
as  good  as  his,  but  not  so  well  drest.  In  the  first  quarto  edition 
of  Hume's  History,'  an  important  confession  (for  who  can  be 
always  on  his  guard  against  truth  ?)  had  escaped  him ; 
'  that  Charles  was  too  apt,  in  imitation  of  his  father,  to  consider 
these  promises  as  temporary  expedients,  which  after  the  disso- 
lution of  the  Parliament  he  was  not  farther  to  regard.'  Fain 
would  he  retract  or  qualify  the  only  truth  he  ever  uttered  on 
the  subject,  by  calling  it  afterwards^  a  negligence,  or  rash  ex- 
pression. Instead  of  the  original  words,  not  hastily  uttered  in 
conversation  or  debate,  but  deliberately  written  and  printed 
by  himself,  he  desires  to  substitute  the  following: — '  But  he 
(Charles)  was  too  apt,  in  imitation  of  his  father,  to  imagine  that 
the  Parliament,  when  they  failed  of  supplying  his  necessities, 
had,  on  their  part,  freed  him  from  the  obligation  of  a  strict  per- 
formance.' When  a  man,  so  cunning,  cautious,  cold,  and  phleg- 
matic as  David  Hume,  is  reduced  to  shelter  his  own  veracity 
under  an  admission  of  negligence  or  rashness,  he  makes  the 
case  of  his  two  heroes  desperate.  But  the  flight  of  the  arrow  is 
not  to  be  recalled.  From  a  friend  and  an  advocate  the  wound 
is  mortal.  In  another  place  he  says,  that  '  the  self-command  of 
Charles  was  united  with  perfect  candour  and  sincerity ;  other- 
wise it  had  merited  but  small  praise.'  This  passage  in  the  first 
edition  was  left  out  in  all  that  followed. 

In  the  course  of  Charles's  life  I  see  nothing  that  ought  to 
have  saved  it.     Even  David  Hume  admits  that  he  had  treated 

'  Vol.  i.  p.  166.  ^  Vol.  ii.  p.  814. 


APPENDIX.  481 

the  nation  like  a  conquered  province.'  In  his  heart  he  was 
always  a  tyrant,  and  when  he  could  not  carry  his  point  by 
power,  equally  ready  to  resort  to  the  meanest  duplicity.  The 
imprisonment  of  the  Earl  of  Arundel  in  1626,  and  the  violation 
of  the  privileges  of  the  House  of  Lords  in  that  case,  were  only 
a  prelude  to  his  forcible  entrance  into  the  House  of  Commons 
in  1641,  and  an  early  sample  of  his  arbitrary  principles.  On 
this  subject,  the  words  of  Mr.  HasselP  are  not  so  generally 
known  as  they  ought  to  be.  What  a  faithful  picture  of  the 
character  of  Charles  doth  this  short  history  exhibit !  'Arbitrary, 
imperious,  obstinate,  and  deceitful !  Secretly  wishing  to  trample 
on  the  privileges  of  Parliament,  yet  not  daring  to  avow  his 
intentions,  he  endeavours,  by  false  insinuations  and  untrue 
assertions,  to  protract  the  time  till  it  should  be  no  longer  in 
the  power  of  the  Lords  to  contend  with  him.'  With  all  his 
stately  airs  and  pretensions,  the  terms  on  which  he  submitted 
to  send  a  very  considerable  force,  in  1631,  under  the  Marquis 
of  Hamilton,  to  assist  Grustavus  Adolphus,  were  as  mean  and 
feeble  as  if  he  were  dealing  with  a  superior.  In  this  transaction 
he  forgot  even  his  pitiful  kingship,  and  yielded,  with  as  little 
reason  as  dignity,  to  the  dictation  of  a  superior  mind.  When 
Elizabeth  sent  Essex,  at  the  head  of  an  inconsiderable  English 
army,  to  serve  under  Henry  the  Fourth,  I  suppose  that  brave 
woman  would  have  hanged  him,  if  he  had  taken  an  oath  of 
fidelity  to  the  crown  of  France,  to  qualify  him  for  the  honour 
of  fighting  for  that  crown. 

Though  cold  and  slow  by  constitution,  he  was  naturally  vin- 
dictive, and  in  his  youth  dissolute  without  passions,  formal, 
stately,  false,  unfeeling,'  tyrannical  on  the  throne,  and  some- 
times barbarously  cruel.  He  was  a  master  of  the  phrases  and 
formalities  of  the  constitution,  for  no  purpose  but  to  destroy  it. 
These  phrases  express  nothing  but  obedience  and  submission  to 
the  king,  who  is  constantly  called  our  Sovereign  Lord,  and 
some  of  the  forms  observed  in  approaching  or  addressing  him 
are  little  less  than  servile.  Why?  Because  a  king  of  this 
country,  having  of  right  no  direct  force  in  his  own  hands, 
would  be  a  feeble,  defenceless  person,  most  exposed  by  the 
eminence  of  his  position,  and  therefore  incapable  of  executing 
the  duties  of  his  station,  if  he  were  not  surrounded  and  pro- 

>  Anno  1620.  '  Vol.  i.  p.  145. 

VOL.  II.  I  I 


482  APPENDIX. 

tected  by  a  multiplicity  of  personal  forms  and  observances,  as 
well  as  by  positive  laws,  superfluous  or  unnecessary  under  a 
despotic  government.  A  strict  construction  of  the  monarchical 
langTiage  of  the  laws,  against  his  better  knowledge,  supplied 
Charles  with  technical  arguments,  which  the  Parliament  did  not 
always  encounter  so  directly  as  they  might  have  done  in  more 
enlightened  times.  Instead  of  resorting  at  once  to  principles 
in  their  declarations,  as  they  did  in  their  conduct,  they  sub- 
mitted to  give  the  best  explanation  they  could  to  terms  and 
formularies,  which  they  knew  prevailed  with  the  majority  of 
an  ignorant  people,  particularly  with  those  who  lived  in  the 
country.  At  last  the  question  went  to  issue,  and  was  decided 
by  the  sword.  If  the  event  had  been  in  his  favour,  it  would 
of  course  have  been  called  a  dispensation.  The  success  of 
guilt,  though  said  to  be  permitted  for  wise  purposes,  is  never 
attributed  to  Providence.  The  evils  that  ensued  are  known. 
But  is  it  sufficiently  considered  what  the  consequences  must 
have  been  if  Charles  had  conquered  the  Parliament  ?  On  the 
face  of  the  whole  transaction,  and  with  the  ideas  and  principles 
since  derived  from  the  revolution,  it  is  difficult  for  us  to  con- 
ceive how  a  constitutional  Englishman,  who  valued  personal 
freedom  or  had  anything  to  lose,  could  have  supported  Charles 
against  the  Parliament  in  the  first  instance.  Neither  can  it  be 
safely  or  justly  asserted  that,  when  Charles  was  subdued,  it 
could  not  have  been  the  sincere  opinion  of  any  honest  man,  that 
the  best  course  at  that  moment  would  have  been  to  have  con- 
cluded with  him  on  the  terms  to  which  he  submitted  at  last. 
To  judge  fairly  of  the  right  or  wrong  of  human  conduct, 
especially  in  cases  of  great  hazard  either  way,  you  must  live 
back  to  the  same  time  and  stand  on  the  same  ground  with  the 
parties  concerned  and  then  in  action.  Events  prove  nothing 
against  virtue  or  prudence,  but  that  both  are  left  to  the  mercy 
of  chance,  or  of  free  will  determined  by  accident,  passion,  or 
folly,  and  estimated  afterwards  by  success  or  consequences.  On 
the  surface  of  the  question,  it  appeared  to  have  been  tbe  in- 
terest of  all  parties,  though  not  of  ever}'  individual,  to  have 
accepted  and  closed  with  what  are  called  hia  concessions  in  the 
Isle  of  Wight,  witli  such  securities  as  might  possibly  have  been 
taken.  To  this  difficulty  there  is  but  one  solution.  They  knew 
him.  For  that  Cromwell,  in  1647,  had  any  hope  or  conception  of 
making  himself  master  of  these  kingdoms  seems  to  me  in- 
credible. 


APPENDIX.  483 

To  reinstate  and  to  limit  the  power  of  the  crown  in  the 
same  person,  is  a  dangerous  experiment,  and  has  never  yet 
been  tried  with  success.  In  judging  of  the  necessity  or  pru- 
dence of  putting  Charles  to  death  and  of  the  merits  of  the 
parties  who  voluntarily  took  that  resolution,  or  who  thought 
they  had  no  other  security,  we  are  not  to  assume  less  know- 
ledge than  they  had  of  the  man,  or  less  ground  for  suspecting 
him.  Who  can  say  that,  if  Charles  had  been  reinvested  with 
any  portion,  however  limited,  of  the  power  he  once  possessed, 
he  might  not  gradually  have  recovered  the  whole?  He  thought 
so  himself,  and  they  had  no  doubt  of  his  intending  and  attempt- 
ing it.  Effectual  resistance  to  abuses,  growing  under  authority 
and  protected  by  establishments,  can  only  be  maintained  by  a 
constant  effort  and  exertion,  fi-om  which  the  human  mind 
naturally  relaxes  when  left  to  itself,  and  readily  reverts  to  its 
habitual  repose.  Whereas  power,  like  avarice,  is  always  in 
pursuit,  seldom  at  rest  except  to  take  breath,  and  never  satis- 
fied. Natural  wants  or  appetites  are  suspended  by  food  or 
palled  by  possession.  Those  of  the  mind  grow  by  what  they 
feed  on.  Some  anecdotes  are  happily  preserved  by  writers, 
otherwise  studious  to  exalt  or  defend  him,  which  remove  the 
masque  and  discover  the  real  vultus  or  volition  of  his  mind. 
In  a  common  man,  the  desertion  of  Strafford  might  be  for- 
given. He  sacrificed  a  zealous  apostate  from  popularity '  (for 
which,  and  his  first  zeal  in  pursuing  it,  the  king  probably  never 
forgave  him),  and,  on  his  own  notions,  a  faithful  servant  (for 
he  was  too  much  a  king  to  have  a  friend)  to  what  he  thought 
the  safety  of  his  wife  and  children,  if  not  to  his  own.  In  this 
instance,  he  was  abandoned  by  his  warmest  advocates  ;  because 
the  instruments  of  tyranny  are  very  unwilling  to  be  deserted. 
In  their  eyes  the  example  is  dangerous.  There  would  be  an 
end  of  their  ofSce,  they  would  have  no  occupation,  or  justice 
might  overtake  them,  if  the  author  of  evil  were  not  bound  to 
keep  faith  with  his  agents.  On  his  own  professed  principles, 
and  when  he  had  declared  'that  no  fear,  no  respect  whatsoever 
should  ever  make  him  go  against  his  conscience,'  ^  the  sacrifice 

^  It  is  a  fact  little  known  or  taken  notice  of,  that,  in  1625,  Sir  Thomas 
Wentworth,  Sir  Edward  Coke,  Piichard  Knight,  Esq.,  and  Sir  Robert 
Phillips,  who  in  the  last  Parliament  had  appeared  against  the  favourite 
Buckingham,  were  pricked  for  sheriffs  for  their  respective  counties,  to  pre- 
vent their  being  returned  to  serve  in  the  next. 

2  May  1,  1641. 

I  1  2 


484  APPENDIX. 

of  Strafford  divests  Charles  of  every  pretension  to  eminence  in 
personal  fortitude,  in  morals,  or  religion  ;  but  it  leaves  him  a 
weak,  pardonable  being,  overpowered  by  the  tears  of  women, 
and  willingly  misled  by  the  advice  of  courtiers  and  bishops, 
who  pretended  to  be  anxious  for  the  safety  of  his  family.  The 
supposed  consent  of  Strafford  furnishes  no  excuse  for  deserting 
him,  and  would  have  made  a  very  different  impression  on  a  gene- 
rous mind.  The  case  and  the  counsel,  however,  protect  Charles 
a  little  in  the  fact.  A  better  being  might  have  yielded  as  he 
did.  But,  when  all  his  grief  and  intercession  end  in  a  pitiful 
ridiculous  postscript,  '  If  he  must  die,  it  were  charity  to  reprieve 
him  till  Saturday,'  the  mind  sickens  with  contempt  of  him. 
Well  might  the  criminal  so  justly  rewarded  say,  Put  not  your 
trust  in  -princes.  I  do  not  believe  that  Charles  was  in  earnest, 
though  it  imported  him  to  maintain  the  appearance  of  it,  or 
that  he  ever  forgave  Strafford  for  his  original  sins  in  the  House 
of  Commons,  though  he  trusted  and  employed  him.  If,  instead 
of  resorting  to  a  series  of  humiliating  expedients,  he  had  taken 
his  resolution  manfully,  and  as  he  might  have  done  safely  for 
himself  at  least ;  if  he  had  gone  to  the  Parliament  and  told 
them  that  they  might  take  his  life  if  they  would,  but  that  he 
never  would  be  party  to  the  death  of  a  man  whom  he  knew  or 
believed  to  be  innocent  of  any  capital  crime,  my  own  feelings 
tell  me  that  such  an  act  of  magnanimity  would  have  saved 
Strafford.  The  Lords  and  Commons  would  not  have  agreed  in 
passing  an  ordinance  without  the  king,  first,  to  complete  the 
attainder  and  then  to  carry  it  into  execution.  And,  as  to  his 
own  life,  it  had  never  entered  into  the  contemplation  of  any 
man,  at  that  time,  to  put  the  king  to  death.  We  are  speaking 
of  a  probability,  which  cannot  be  proved.  The  measures  he 
took  failed.  Is  it  unreasonable  to  presume  that  an  opposite 
course  might  have  succeeded  ?  At  all  events,  he  would  have 
saved  his  honour,  and  lost  nothing  but  a  poor  respite  and  a 
miserable  permission  to  live  a  few  years  longer,  such  as  he  had 
solicited  for  a  few  days  to  be  allowed  to  Strafford.  On  that 
ground,  he  would  have  died  honourably,  and  his  death  would 
have  blasted  his  opponents.  Not  that  I  admit  generally  that, 
according  to  the  constitution  of  this  country,  the  crown  has  a 
negative  except  in  its  own  defence,  on  the  legislative  resolutions 
of  a  free  Parliament.     '  Le  roy  s'avisera,'  is  a  phrase  by  which 


APPENDIX.  485 

nothing  was  originally  meant,  but  a  liberty  to  consult  with 
the  Lords  upon  a  bill  presented  by  the  Commons,  though  now 
taken  for  a  right  inherent  in  the  king  of  denying  such  bills  as 
may  be  offered  to  him  by  the  Lords  and  Commons.  Even  a 
private  person  is  not  at  liberty  to  plead  his  conscience  against 
positive  laws  or  duties. 

In  England  the  supreme  executive  magistrate  is  bound  by  the 
sense  of  the  nation,  expressed  by  Parliament  in  acts  of  legisla- 
tion, whether  his  opinion  concurs  in  it  or  not.  He  is  not  allowed 
to  justify  a  refusal  to  be  so  bound  by  appealing  to  a  test,  of 
which  no  human  tribunal  can  take  cognizance,  and  which  might 
be  pretended,  to  shelter  any  denial  of  justice  to  the  people.  A 
private  conscience  suits  not  with  a  public  calling.  But,  if  the 
reverse  were  true,  it  would  be  no  defence  of  Charles,  in  his  own 
court  of  conscience,  for  consenting  to  the  attainder  of  Strafford. 
If,  as  one  only  bishop  honestly  told  him,  he  was  not  satisfied  in 
conscience  to  condemn  Strafford  of  high  treason,  and  if  that 
scruple  were  sincere,  he  ought  to  have  adhered  to  it.  In  him, 
the  consent  he  gave  was  murder,  aggravated  by  the  dreadful 
consideration  that  he  was  an  accomplice,  if  not  a  principal,  in  the 
chief  of  the  treasons  imputed  to  Strafford.  Eead  Charles's 
letter  to  him  of  the  24th  of  April,  1641. 

The  conviction  of  this  man,  on  the  impeachment,  might  have 
been  illegal  for  want  of  strict  legal  evidence ;  but  the  attainder 
of  him  was  just,  because  the  proof  of  his  guilt  was  sufficient. 
Extreme  cases  will  not  submit  to  be  governed'by  the  formalities, 
which  ought  to  be  observed  in  the  general  administration  of 
justice,  or  by  the  ordinary  courses  of  proceeding;  nor  is  there 
any  real  danger  that  a  special  act  of  justice,  without  legality, 
shall  be  drawn  into  a  common  rule  or  practice,  which  all  men 
would  feel  to  be  unsafe  to  the  community,  and  a  most  dangerous 
instrument  of  lawless  tyranny. 

Great  and  powerful  offenders  are  not  easily  overtaken  by 
formal  justice,  which  is  and  ought  to  be  slow ;  nor  is  there  any 
reason  to  fear  that  a  rare  instance  of  irregular  proceeding,  in 
the  punishment  of  extraordinary  guilt,  should  be  generally 
dangerous  to  innocence.  Such  examples,  exhibited  now  and 
then,  may  possibly  deter  and  prevent,  by  showing  that  no 
criminal  however  high  in  rank,  is  quite  sure  of  bei  ng  protected  by 
forms  and  phrases,  when  power  is  gone.      At  all  events,  they 


480  APPENDIX. 

can  do  no  harm.  Arbitrary  power  will  quote  precedents  or  act 
without  them,  just  as  it  liappens,  or  according  to  the  emergency. 
Positive  institutions  are  disgraced,  not  when  they  are  violated 
by  force,  but  when  they  are  perverted  by  fraud  or  abuse.  Acts 
of  absolute  necessity  neither  want  nor  furnish  a  precedent.  The 
treasons,  for  which  Strafford  deserved  death,  were  against  his 
country,  which,  by  our  ancient  Saxon  law,  was  a  higher  crime 
and  more  severely  punished,  than  that  of  contriving  the  death 
of  the  king.  The  first  was  treachery  as  well  as  felony.  The 
second  was  felony  onlj'.'  In  the  rolls  of  Parliament,  he,  who 
should  violate  certain  statutes,  is  constantly  described  as  a  high 
and  false  traitor  to  the  king  and  Jdngdom.'^  The  oaths,  in 
which  these  declarations  are  stated,  coming  directly  from  and 
being  prescribed  by  a  king  so  arbitrary  and  worthless  as 
Eichard  the  Second,  not  only  amount  to  an  acknowledgment  that 
the  doctrine  was  true,  but  that  it  was  universally  known  and 
admitted. 

Strafford  at  first  had  gone  as  far  as  any  man  reprobating  the 
arbitrary  measures  of  Charles,  and  then  with  greater  violence 
in  support  of  them.  His  name  was  at  the  head  of  the  fiery 
spirits,  as  they  were  called  at  court,  who  distinguished  them- 
selves by  their  ardent  speeches  and  proceedings  against  Govern- 
ment in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  was  bribed  soon  after  by  a 
peerage  and  an  ofSce,  when  prostitution  in  that  way  was  un- 
common. Many  have  followed  his  example,  and  nobody,  that 
we  know  of,  has  been  deterred  by  his  fate.  He  says  himself,  in 
a  personal  address  to  the  king,  '  your  majesty  of  your  mere  and 
free  grace  made  me  a  baron,  when  you  had  scarce  heard  of  me, 
and  that  too  rather  by  ill  report  than  good.'  If  you  have  any 
doubt  of  the  abandoned  baseness  of  this  man,  a  slave  to  get 
power,  a  brutal  tyrant  in  using  it,  and  as  arrogant  as  he  was 
mean  according  to  the  ground  he  stood  on,  compare  his 
language  and  conduct  in  the  English  House  of  Commons,  up  to 
1628,  with  his  speech  to  the  Irish  Parliament  in  1634,^  and  with 
all  his  monstrous  servility  to  Charles.  '  The  hidden  secrets  and 
privileged  peculiars  of  kings,  for  which  they  are  in  no  kind  ac- 
countable, nor  ought  any  subject  uncalled  to  intermeddle, — his 

'  Vide  N.  Bacon,  61 ;  and  Barrington,  244. 

2  Tyrel,  anno  1307-8.  =>  Vol.  i.  p.  236. 


APPENDIX.  487 

gracious  and  great  master,  the  best  of  kings,  and  their  happiness 
in  gathering  the  blessed  fruits  of  his  government.'  All  sem- 
blance of  virtue  was  dead  in  him,  and  the  sense  of  shame  did 
not  survive  it.  In  the  king's  sacrifice  of  Strafford,  there  is  a 
visible  motive  and  an  object,  fear  and  safety ;  with  examples 
enough,  and  the  advice  of  four  bishops  against  one.  But  where 
was  the  offence  that  could  excuse  a  king,  a  Christian,  and  a 
gentleman,  in  striking  Sir  Harry  Vane^  in  his  own  house,  or  in 
spurring  his  horse  to  trample  on  Sir  Thomas  Fairfax,  who  was 
on  his  knees  to  present  a  petition  to  him. 

In  the  private  life  of  Lewis  the  Fourteenth  there  is  no  anecdote 
so  creditable  to  him,  as  his  throwing  his  cane  out  of  the  window 
that  he  might  not  be  provoked  to  strike  a  gentleman.  Yet  the 
direct  personal  insolence  of  Lauzien  on  that  occasion  and  to 
such  a  man  as  the  king  was  wonderful,  and  might  have  made- 
any  instant  act  of  resentment  excusable.  His  Majesty  however 
did  not  forget  him,  but  made  him  pay  for  it  on  a  later  occasion, 
and  quite  another  pretence.  Charles  pretended  to  be  eminently 
a  Christian,  and  was  very  regular  in  his  stately  devotions.  Yet 
he  did  all  he  could  to  have  Felton  tortured  on  the  rack,  pro- 
fessing however  that,  '  if  it  might  be  done  by  law  he  would  not 
use  his  prerogative  on  this  point;'  and  when  that  barbaroua 
■wish  was  disappointed,  he  pressed  the  judges  to  have  his  hand 
cut  off.^  Hume  says  nothing  of  this  fact.  The  cruel  punish- 
ments inflicted  by  the  Star  Chamber,  before  his  face,,  may  pos- 
.«ibly  be  imputed  to  others.  Here  you  see  the  man  himself,  who- 
knew  as  well  as  we  do  now,  that  tortures  are  equally  forbidden 
by  the  laws,  which  he  had  sworn  to  execute  in  mercy,  and  by  the 
mild  religion,  which  he  professed  with  ostentation.  These  in- 
stances have  escaped  from  the  wreck  of  history. 

If  the  Commonwealth  had  survived  Charles  long  enough,  or, 
if  the  Protectorate  had  been  established,  we  should  have  had  a 
clearer  insight  into  his  real  innate  dispositions.  About  his 
public  or  private  debaucheries  with  Buckingham  it  is  in  vain  to 
enquire.  When  Milton  wrote  they  were  notorious.  The  most 
profligate  of  mankind  was  the  first  and  only  favourite  of  his 

1  Carte's  Ormonde,  i.  357. 
^  Rushwoi-thj  anno  1628. 


488  APPENDIX. 

heart,  and  the  constant  companion  of  his  youth,  for,  in  his 
attachment  to  Strafford,  whom  he  bought  off  as  an  enemy,  there 
was  nothing  like  personal  affection.  This  fact  is  sufiScient, 
without  direct  evidence,  which  of  course  has  been  suppressed. 
At  a  later  period,  he  might  have  been  satisfied  with  the  beauty 
of  his  wife,  and  fond  of  his  children.  In  a  sanctified  character 
these  are  no  great  merits.  In  Aim  they  were  little  regarded. 
They  did  not  even  make  him  popular  with  the  vulgar,  because 
his  queen  was  a  French  Eoman  Catholic.  What  passions  he 
had  were,  in  general,  regulated  by  state  and  formality,  not 
subdued,  or  not  till  very  late,  by  reason  or  religion.  They  were 
often  ungovernable;  but  his  excesses  were  never  followed  by 
any  atonement  of  condescension,  generosity,  or  regret.  Even  to 
his  wife,  though  uxorious  beyond  measure,  he  sometimes,  from 
mere  temper,  behaved  with  personal  slight  and  indignity.  The 
extravagant  submissions  made  by  James  the  First  to  a  servant 
whom  he  had  beaten  in  a  paroxysm  of  passion,  showed  at  least 
that  his  heart  was  human. '  In  the  composition  of  Charles  the 
First  there  was  no  tenderness. or  feeling,  on  even  terms, for  any 
other  being,  except  perhaps  for  Buckingham.  He  who  thinks  he 
has  no  equal,  cannot  sympathise  in  the  sufferings  of  others.  A 
king  may  have  low  partialities  directed  by  habit  or  caprice,  or 
attachments  that  indicate  condescension,  but  no  friendship,  no 
affection  for  anybody. 

The  usual  way  of  getting  rid  of  a  tyrant  in  this  and  other  coun- 
tries had  been  by  assassination.  Slavery  must  be  taken  with  its 
properties.  There  was  no  example,  in  any  history,  of  the  public 
trial  and  execution  of  a  king,  until  England  gave  it  to  the  world. 
In  this  transaction  there  was  no  essential  defect,  except  that  it 
was  not  suflSciently  a  national  or  even  a  parliamentary  resolu- 
tion. Nations  cannot  act  otherwise  than  by  representation ;  and 
this,  in  its  nature,  could  only  have  been  the  act  of  a  minority. 
Whether  a  general  assent  went  along  with  it  or  not,  it  cannot  be 
denied  that  they  who  brought  Charles  to  an  open  judgment,  in- 
stead of  taking  him  off  in  secret,  as  they  might  easily  have  done, 
must  have  thought  their  cause  a  good  one,  and  that  it  would 
bear  the  light.  Injustice  certainly  does  not  change  its  nature 
by  acting  openly,  but  justice  cannot  be  done  in  the  dark. 

The  regicides,  who  were  put  to  death  after  the  liestoration, 

'  Carte's  Ormmich,  i,  357. 


APPENDIX.  489 

adhered  to  their  principles  and  suffered  as  martyrs  to  their 
cause.  Charles  had  the  forms  and  phrases  of  the  constitution 
to  plead  against  the  jurisdiction  of  the  court,  and  made  no  de- 
fence. In  similar  circumstances  Louis  the  Sixteenth  made  a  very 
plausible  if  not  a  good  one.  In  the  criminal  courts  below,  an 
advocate  is  permitted  to  take  all  the  advantages  which  the 
letter  of  the  law  will  give  him,  to  save  the  life  of  a  felon.  But 
a  king,  who  flies  for  shelter  to  the  forms  of  the  constitution, 
when  the  charge  against  him  is  for  endeavouring  to  subvert  and 
ruin  the  constitution  itself,  is  cast  by  his  plea.  Yet  I  do 
not  mean  to  deny  that  he  showed  personal  firmness  in  re- 
fusing to  submit  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  court,  and  that,  by 
persevering  in  this  refusal,  he  closed  his  life  with  more  dignity 
and  consistency  than  he  could  have  done  by  any  possible  de- 
fence of  his  actions.  The  French,  I  am  sure,  envied  the 
English  for  being  the  first  nation  that  brought  a  king  to  a 
formal  trial  for  his  life.'  Great  examples  cannot  always  be 
made  without  some  personal  injustice. 

The  abolition  of  royalty  in  England  did  not  make  the  ex- 
ample useless  of  punishment  in  the  person  of  a  king.  All 
other  supreme  executive  magistrates  are  taught  by  it,  that  they 
are  not  above  the  reach  of  personal  punishment.  At  this  day  it 
is  not  easy  to  believe  that  either  Cromwell  or  Charles  could  have 
been  sincere  in  his  religious  professions.  Neither  is  it  quite 
safe  to  pronounce,  though  it  may  well  be  suspected,  that  each 
jf  them,  in  his  way,  was  a  canting  hypocrite.  The  limits  of 
human  folly,  and  the  proportions  in  which  sense  and  nonsense 
may  subsist  in  the  same  head,  are  not  yet  ascertained.  On 
the  surface  it  appears  that  one  of  these  men  was  a  grave  formal 
impostor,  the  other  an  unintelligible  buffoon ;  that  they  were 
good  actors,  and  that  each  spoke  the  jargon  of  the  sect  he  be- 
longed to.  The  King  talked  about  religion  like  a  bishop  ;  the 
Protector  like  a  fanatic.  The  difference  is  only  in  the  form, 
and  perfectly  immaterial,  except  that  none  but  an  idiot  could 
be  imposed  upon  by  Cromwell.  There  was  no  dignity,  nor 
even  imagination  in  his  puritanical  nonsense.  His  religious 
cant  discovered  no  exaltation  of  mind,  no  character  even  of 
ardent  enthusiasm.  It  was  a  mere  flat  raving  stupidity, 
which  had  neither  madness   to   excuse,  nor  animation  to  en- 

'  'Habet  aliquid  ex  iniquo  onino  magnum  exemplum.' — Tacitus. 


490  APPENDIX. 

liven  it,  and  fit  only  for  the  ears  of  the  fools  he  had  to 
deal  with.  He  had  great  wisdom  in  action,  but  very  little  in 
public  discourse;  for  practical  wisdom  depends  chiefly  on 
personal  resolution,  and  not  at  all  or  very  little  on  argument.  In 
human  conduct,  the  wisest  course  is  generally  obvious  enough 
to  a  plain  understanding,  until  the  question  has  been  thoroughly 
argued  and  debated  by  casuists  and  orators.  Almost  all  the 
great  abilities  of  my  time  have  run  into  debate  or  litigation, 
which,  with  powerful  advocates  on  both  sides,  seldom  ends  in 
a  clear  conviction  on  either.  Cromwell's  religious  phrases  and 
mummery  were  always  ridiculous  or  unintelligible ;  but  his  con- 
duct was  wise  enough  for  his  purposes ;  and  if  he  had  been 
sincere  at  any  time  in  the  follies  he  talked  of,  the  possession  of 
royal  power  would  soon  have  cured  him.  He  knew,  as  well  as 
any  king,  that  professions  and  creeds  supply  the  p]ace  of  prac- 
tice, and,  having  a  much  better  understanding  than  Charles, 
would  probably  have  beaten  him  at  his  own  weapons.  The 
correspondence  and  battle  at  Dunbar,  in  September  1650,  is  a 
comedy  on  his  side  and  a  tragedy  on  the  other.  The  prepa- 
rations of  the  Scotch  to  defend  their  country  began  with  dis- 
missing eighty  ofBcers,  which  they  called  purging  the  army  of 
malignants,  and  then  the  army  composed  of  saints  was  pro- 
nounced invincible.  Both  parties  appealed  to  the  Lord;  but 
Cromwell  knew  the  Lord  better  than  they  did ;  and  when  he 
saw  them  mad  enough  to  quit  their  position,  as  they  did  by  the 
advice,  or  rather  the  phrenzy,  of  the  clergy,'  notwithstanding 
the  remonstrances  of  Leslie,  who  appears  to  have  possessed  suffi- 
cient military  skill  as  well  as  personal  resolution,  he  had  no  doubt, 
on  common  human  principles,  that  the  Lord  had  delivered  the 
saints  and  the  godly  into  his  hands.  But  these  pious  persons, 
though  the  decision  of  the  flesh  was  against  them,  were  not  so 
easily  cudgelled  out  of  their  spiritual  faith.  He  asks  them, 
'  Did  not  you  solemnly  appeal  and  pray  ?  Did  not  iwe  do  so  too  ? 
And  now  yiDu  say,  You  have  not  so  learned  Christ  to  hang  the 
equity  of  your  cause  upon  events.  I  beseech  you  in  the 
bowels  of  Christ,  for  yet  our  bowels  do  in  Christ  Jesus  yearn 
after  the  godly  in  Scotland.'  The  astonishing  part  of  this  trans- 
action is  that  many  of  the  Scotch  ministers  were  as  sincere 
fanatics  and  as  madly  in  earnest  as  the  poor  people  whom  thej 
deluded  and  misled. 

'  Vide  Laing,  iii.  433. 


APPENDIX.  491 

In  passive  courage  Charles  was  not  deficient,  much  less  in 
natural  obstinacy,  and,  fortunately  for  the  close  of  his  character, 
which  leaves  the  final  impression,  he  was  taught  by  adversity, 
perhaps  at  last  by  devotion,  when  all  other  hope  was  gone,  to 
meet  his  fate  with  firmness,  and  to  bear  with  equanimity  the 
indignities  offered  to  his  person.  They  who  think  him  most 
guilty,  must  lament  that  public  justice  should  not  have  been 
able  to  preserve  its  own  dignity  by  protecting  him  from  out- 
rages, at  sight  of  which  every  generous  heart  is  interested  for 
him.  Sufferings  of  this  sort,  however,  are  easily  borne,  and  his 
in  effect  have  turned  out  to  his  advantage.  But  it  is  not  use- 
ful or  perfectly  just  that  anything  but  patient  innocence  should 
be  made  an  object  of  compassion.  Under  a  monarchical  govern- 
ment, the  natural  feelings  and  propensities  of  the  mind  are 
perverted  by  education  or  a  total  want  of  any  instruction,  and 
modelled  by  habit  or  by  the  fashion  of  society  to  act  in  a  false 
direction,  and  to  look  up  for  the  titular  objects  of  their  compas- 
sion ;  as  if  all  our  pity  should  be  reserved  for  kings  and  queens, 
and  other  exalted  persons,  who  never  pity  us,  nor  even  one 
another.  And  what  are  their  sufferings  ?  Edmund  Burke  as- 
sures us  that  these  persons  whom  he  calls  '  our  very  unhappy 
brethren,  are  most  in  want  of  the  consolations  of  religion  ;  they 
want  this  sovereign  balm  under  their  gnawing  cares  and 
anxieties.  Why  ?  Because  they  feel  personal  pain  and  anxiety. 
Indeed  !  Some  charitable  dole  is  wanting  to  these,  our  often 
very  unhappy  brethren,  to  fill  the  gloomy  void  which  reigns  in 
minds  which  have  nothing  on  earth  to  hope  or  fear ;  something 
to  relieve  in  the  killing  languor  and  over-laboured  lassitude  of 
those  who  have  nothing  to  do ;  something  to  excite  an  appetite 
to  existence  in  the  palled  satiety,  which  attends  on  all  pleasures, 
which  may  be  bought ;  where  nature  is  not  left  to  her  own 
process,  where  even  desire  is  anticipated,  and  therefore  fruition 
defeated  by  meditated  schemes  and  contrivances  of  delight ;  and 
no  interval,  no  obstacle  is  interposed  between  the  wish  and  the 
accomplishment ! ' 

In  the  last  act  of  Charles's  life,  some  of  the  scenes  are 
pathetic ;  and  the  latest  impression  is  in  his  favour.  But 
it  would  soon  have  been  effaced  if  the  republic  had  been 
permanently  established,  or  if  Cromwell  had  immediately  suc- 
ceeded to  the  crown,  and  could  have  preserved  it  in  his  family. 
After  the  restoration  of  the  Stuarts,  there  could  be  no  repub- 


402  APPENDIX. 

lican  history.  The  memorials  from  which  it  might  have  been 
composed  were  suppressed  or  cried  down.  The  evidence 
of  Milton  is  hardly  re-established,  and  very  little  consulted. 
Under  a  monarchy  of  any  kind  the  study  of  his  excellent 
Latin  works  is  not  likely  to  be  encouraged.  Such  books  are 
hardly  known  at  our  loyal  universities,  much  less  recommended 
by  doctors  of  divinity,  whose  preferment  in  the  church  depends 
on  their  submission  to  the  king.  With  such  instructors,  the 
minds  of  the  youths  committed  to  their  care  have  no  chance 
of  being  enlightened  by  a  liberal  education.  The  refusal  of 
Milton  to  defend  the  Scotch  for  selling  their  king,  has  not  been 
acknowledged  by  the  Eoyalists  as  it  deserved.  He  says,  '  the 
charge,  cast  upon  them  by  Charles,  is  so  foul  an  infamy,  as 
befits  none  to  vindicate  but  themselves.''  So  he  left  it  to  the 
actors  to  justify  their  act  if  they  could.  Does  there  a  Scot  of 
any  spirit  live,  who  in  his  heart  does  not  wish  that  his  ances- 
tors had  brought  Charles  to  a  public  trial  and  put  him  to  death 
themselves  rather  than  have  sold  him  as  their  parliament  did  to 
suffer  it  by  the  hands,  from  which  it  might  be  strongly  suspected 
at  least  that  they  received  the  price  of  his  blood  ?  This  is  a 
very  natural  feeling,  but  by  no  means  a  just  national  imputa- 
tion, or  a  reasonable  subject  of  reproach.  We  may  lament  that 
some  of  our  predecessors,  one  hundred  and  sixty  or  one  hun- 
dred and  seventy  years  ago,  were  guilty  of  a  base  or  criminal 
action ;  but,  after  all,  it  furnishes  no  charge  against  the  pre- 
sent generation,  who  it  seems  are  destined  to  be  visited  by 
and  to  suffer  for  the  sins  of  their  forefathers.  Malcolm  Laing, 
the  most  able  and  honest  historian  of  this  time,  in  the  judg- 
ment of  men  who  do  not  measure  ability  by  words  or  virtue 
by  professions,  has  argued  this  question  as  well  as  it  can  be 
argued  in  favour  of  the  Scotch  Parliament,  is  forced  at  last 
to  give  it  up.'  On  the  1st  of  September  1646,  the  amount  of 
arrears  due  to  the  Scottish  army  was  fixed  at  £400,000.  '  But 
the  coincidence,  however  unavoidable,  between  the  delivery  of 
their  king  and  the  actual  discharge  and  departure  of  their 
army,  still  affords  a  presumptive  proof  of  the  disgraceful  impu- 
tation of  having  sold  their  king ;  as  the  English,  unless  pre- 
viously assured  of  receiving  his  person,  woiild  never  have 
relinquished  a  sum  so   considerable  as  to  weaken  themselves 

»  Vol,  iii.  pp.  348-0. 


APPENDIX.  403 

while  it  strengthened  a  people  with  whom  such  a  material 
question  remained  to  be  discussed.  The  disgraceful  imputation 
then  can  never  be  effaced  ;  and  who  is  their  accuser  ?  Their 
own  king  himself !  What  in  truth  made  the  Scotch  in  England 
so  excessively  unpopular,  as  they  were  fifty  years  ago,  was  the 
union  of  the  Princess  Dowager,  Lord  Bute,  and  Lord  Mansfield 
to  corrupt  the  young  king,  to  keep  him  in  profound  ignorance, 
and  then  to  marry  him  to  an  ugly  German  beggar,  whom 
General  Graeme  found  out  for  them  in  a  remote  corner  of  Ger- 
many called  Strelitz,  unheard  of  in  England  before  that  auspi- 
cious marriage,  and  for  which  that  Gr^me  was  incessantly 
tormenting  his  employers,  as  if  he  had  not  been,  or  ever  could 
be,  sufficiently  rewarded  for  that  eminent  service.  Then  came 
the  persecution  of  John  Wilkes,  which,  personally  damned  and 
degraded  the  king,  because  he  was  known  to  take  a  personal 
part  in  it. 

Buchanan,  the  eminent  if  not  only  classic  of  Scotland,  is 
not  believed  against  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  nor  De  Witt  against 
the  House  of  Orange. 

The  historians  most  read,  or  at  all  read,  are  on  the  side  of 
monarchy  and  power,  and  everything  they  say  is  taken  on 
trust.  Even  they  decline  and  will  be  neglected,  and  gradually 
forgotten,  unless  when  they  are  consulted  for  argument  in 
party.  The  slow,  long-winded,  solemn  Clarendon  sinks  with 
his  own  weight.  The  deep  and  treacherous  Hume,  I  speak  only 
of  the  historian,  is  detected.  One  writes  always  in  his  robes, 
the  other  in  his  common  dress ;  and  both  with  an  air  of  im- 
partiality and  admission  that  masks  their  essential  falsehood, 
which  consists  in  the  final  impression,  with  no  more  truth  in  the 
detail  than  could  not  be  suppressed  or  perverted.  Their  doc- 
trines now  are  equally  disregarded.  With  a  people,  careless  or 
subdued,  conviction  has  no  weight,  even  in  the  scale  of  sub- 
mission. They  yield  by  inclination  to  any  power  that  promises 
to  protect  their  property,  and  all  power,  even  that  of  the  sword, 
is  strengthened  by  professions.  But  Clarendon  and  Hume  with 
superior  qualifications,  had  mixed  and  acted  in  public  life. 
Burnet  fails  chiefly  for  want  of  force  and  dignity.  The  simpli- 
city of  his  style  and  manner  would  be  more  persuasive  of  his 
veracity  if  the  general  bent  of  his  history  did  not  seem  to  lean 
to  one  side  with  too  little  censure  of  his  own  party.  A  narra- 
tive of  anecdotes,  in   a  plain  colloquial  language,  will  always 


494  APPENDIX, 

have  attraction.  Everybody  is  weary  of  Clarendon,  as  many 
are  of  Hume,  when  they  know  him.  But  nobody  is  tired  of 
Burnet,  though  they  may  not  always  believe  in  him.  Modern 
compilers,  who  write  by  contract  without  vocation,  are  mere 
pedants.  They  look  for  their  thoughts,  and  measure  their  paces 
without  depth  of  reflection  or  elevation  of  sentiment,  and  draw 
characters  at  a  venture,  in  a  flat  monotonous  style,  which,  if  it 
were  faultless,  would  make  no  impression  for  want  of  those 
rough  or  prominent  inequalities,  which  indicate  feeling,  and 
exclude  the  idea  of  preparation. 

Why  have  we  no  classics  in  history  ?  Because  there  is  no 
commonwealth,  of  course  no  interest,  but  to  plunder  and 
divide;  because  our  historians  breathe  no  public  spirit,  and 
inspire  no  virtue.  All  they  pretend  to  teach  is  prudence  in 
conduct,  and  moderation  in  judgment;  as  if  sober  reason  had 
ever  produced  great  actions  or  generous  sacrifices.  Mere  phi- 
losophy, even  when  it  is  in  earnest,  is  wise  for  itself,  or  aims 
only  at  repose.  What  they  really  intend  and  practise  is,  to 
maintain  and  increase  the  power  of  the  crown  as  if  it  were  still 
too  weak  to  perform  its  ofBce,  or  execute  its  duties ;  to  calum- 
niate and  degrade  every  example  of  patriotism  in  former  times, 
to  throw  suspicion  ou  every  character  that  professes  public 
spirit,  and  to  extinguish  any  spark  of  it  in  the  falling  genera- 
tion. They  succeed,  and  they  perish ;  they  are  paid,  and  for- 
gotten. In  a  nation,  or  any  other  organised  body  of  men, 
unless  they  are  absolutely  crushed  by  some  furious  and  sense- 
less despotism  directed  by  priests  and  inflamed  by  superstition, 
extreme  ignorance  cannot  prevail  very  long.  Time  of  itself 
will  give  them  a  sufficient  knowledge  of  what  is  for  their  good, 
and  observation  will  improve  it.  In  their  growth  to  maturity 
and  progress  to  civilisation,  they  will  have  the  spontaneous 
virtues  and  ardent  affections  of  youth.  Strong  passions  may 
produce  active  pursuits  and  vigorous  energies.  But  hazardous 
enterprise,  that  waits  for  reflection,  will  rarely,  if  ever,  be 
undertaken.  Great  communities  called  nations  are  slow  in 
their  elevation,  not  long  stationary,  and  then  rapid  in  their 
decline.  When  once  they  are  generally  enlightened  and  uni- 
versally degraded,  the  case  is  incurable. 

Sooner  or  later  the  heroes  of  modern  history  are  found  out.  No 
just  observer  now  can  believe  that  Charles  the  Fifth  was  more 
than  a  very  common  man,  with  power  enough  to  do  exorbitant 


APPENDIX.  495 

mischief;  or  that  Montrose  was  anything  but  a  barbarous 
ruffian  with  great  personal  courage  and  an  exalted  opinion  of 
his  own  qualifications.  The  former  died  pitifully,  like  a  friar 
in  earnest ;  the  latter  bravely,  and  with  a  noble,  undaunted 
resolution.  The  character  of  Montrose,  of  which  I  was  once 
the  dupe,  has  hitherto  been  sheltered  if  not  redeemed  by  his 
fortitude  in  the  last  adversity,  and  by  the  rancorous  cruelty  of 
his  enemies,  who  nevertheless  had  quite  reason  enough  to  hate 
him.  The  ridiculous  exit  of  Charles  the  Fifth  would  have  blasted 
a  life  of  magnanimity.  With  an  exception  of  the  principal 
classics,  who  are  the  painters  of  human  nature,  no  history  now 
can  be  interesting  to  a  reasonable  man,  but  that  of  his  own 
country  or  of  its  immediate  neighbourhood  ;  and  of  that,  or  any 
other,  no  history  can  be  true,  that  is  not  more  or  less  improb- 
able. Causes  and  motives  are  radical,  and  lie  below  the  sur- 
face, at  a  depth  proportioned  to  the  exaltation  of  their  effects 
above  ground. 

The  gradual  decline  of  the  Eoman  Empire,  from  the  death 
of  Marcus  Aurelius  to  the  capture  of  Constantinople  by  Maho- 
met is,  for  the  most  part,  fit  for  nothing  but  an  epitome.  Of 
Trajan  we  only  know  good  enough  to  excite  surprise  that  he 
could  endure  the  laboured  fulsome  panegyric  of  Pliny  spoken 
to  his  face.  He,  however,  was  a  man  among  monsters,  with  a 
just  sense  of  his  duties  and  some  feeling  for  his  fellow -creatures, 
and  now  and  then  you  come  to  a  few  others,  like  wells  in  a 
wilderness. 

Gibbon's  narrative  is  a  journey  over  a  desert,  endless  in  tran- 
situ, and  immediately  forgotten.  No  power  of  writing  could 
have  sustained  such  a  detail  of  obscure  and  odious  characters, 
religious  disputes  and  holy  massacres,  insignificant  events,  and 
senseless  tyrants.  Neither  can  I  feel  any  interest  in  the  fate  of 
what  he  perpetually  calls  the  Roman  World.  That  wretched 
remnant  of  a  great  republic,  for  many  centuries  before  its 
formal  dissolution,  was  the  shadow  of  a  name.  In  the  silent 
lapse  of  a  thousand  years,  there  must  have  been,  here  and 
there,  a  considerable  man  and  some  eminent  actions,  though 
little  known  and  less  remembered.  But  the  affectation  of 
Gibbon's  style  would  have  strangled  any  subject.  The 
composition  of  his  story  is  a  dead  weight  on  the  characters 
and  events  which  he  wishes  to  exalt.  You  must  read  him 
over  and  over  to  know  who  and  what  he  means,  and,  when 


496  APPENDIX. 

you  know  his  meaning,  the  memory  of  man  is  not  made  to 
retain  it. 

With  a  few  exceptions,  you  cannot  remember  even  the  names 
of  his  emperors  :  for  so  they  were  called  when  their  dominion 
was  reduced  to  a  single  city,  or  little  more.  Taken  generally, 
it  is  a  mere  mass  of  confusion,  in  which  nothing  can  be  distin- 
guished but  the  fermentation  of  vermin  on  a  dunghill,  perse- 
cuting and  destroying  one  another  with  the  arm  of  the  flesh 
when  they  had  it  at  their  disposal,  or  wasting  their  intellects, 
with  the  fury  of  maniacs,  in  polemical  debates  about  the 
administration  of  the  eucharist  and  the  procession  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  As  Gibbon  truly  says,  '  the  Greeks  of  Constantinople 
were  animated  only  by  the  spirit  of  religion,  and  that  spirit 
was  productive  only  of  animosity  and  discord.  The  emperor 
was  deprived  by  it  of  the  affection  and  support  of  his  subjects, 
whose  native  cowardice  was  sanctified  by  resignation  to  the 
divine  decree,  or  the  visionary  hope  of  a  miraculous  deliverance.' 
In  one  sense  his  book  and  his  subject  are  identified.  The  author 
and  the  empire  slowly  fall  together  into  oblivion,  without 
exciting  one  natural  feeling  or  leaving  a  rational  impression, 
but  sorrow  for  the  loss  of  so  much  time,  and  some  regret  that 
the  foolish  empire  and  the  tedious  story  should  have  lasted  so 
long.  No  power  of  words  can  preserve  the  perishable  subject 
from  gradual  decay  and  final  putrefaction.  Wfio  is  it  can  endure 
to  contemplate  the  remains  of  an  eminent  man  or  a  beautiful 
woman  in  their  last  state  of  mortal  dissolution  ?  For  that,  after 
all,  is  the  tribute  which  mankind,  in  whatever  individual  or 
collective  forms  they  may  be  distributed,  must  submit  to  pay  to 
their  mother  earth  for  existence  and  nourishment — to  rot  and  be 
forgotten.  Yet  Gibbon  had  faculties,  industry,  and  as  much  of 
ancient  Greek  learning  as  could  be  obtained  from  translations. 
His  book  may  be  a  useful  compilation  for  relief,  not  instruction, 
to  prisoners  and  others,  who  may  be  subject  to  the  most 
oppressive  of  all  human  calamities,  restraint  without  occupation. 
Of  course  it  will  be  buried  and  preserved  in  libraries  with  the 
dead  fathers  of  the  Church,  until  some  other  folly  takes  posses- 
sion of  the  human  mind,  which,  since  it  cannot  endure  a 
vacuum,,  must  be  stuffed  with  nonsense.  As  for  any  real  or 
pretended  interest  the  present  or  a  future  generation  can  take 
in  the  materials  or  in  the  composition  of  such  a  history,  he 
might  better  have  exercised  his  fancy,  if  he  had  any,  in  com- 


APPENDIX.  497 

piling  a  lively,  active  romance,  out  of  the  rise  and  fall  of  the 
empire  of  Trebisond.  Eeflections  similar  to  these  occurred  to 
the  King  of  Prussia  when,  he  says,  he'  had  the  courage  to 
read  Le  Beau's  '  History  of  the  Lower  Empire '  from  beginnino- 
to  end.  He  asks  Thiebault,  '  Pouvez-vous  me  dire,  pourquol 
elle  fatigue  si  cruellement  le  lecteur;  pourquoi  elle  interesse  si 
pen?'  'C'est  dans  le  fond  et  la  nature  du  sujet  que  je  crois 
trouver  le  vice  principal  de  cet  ouvrage,'  &c.  One  would  think 
that  folly  and  falsehood  were  contagious  diseases  among  modern 
historians,  when  a  man  so  highly  endowed  by  nature  and 
qualified  by  science  as  Eobertson,  with  whom  Gribbon  has  no 
weight  in  the  scale  of  comparison,  could  forget  his  dignity  so 
far  as  to  affirm  that — '  We  know,  with  infallible  certainty,  that 
all  the  human  race  spring  from  the  same  source,  and  that  the 
descendants  of  one  man,  under  the  protection  as  well  as  in 
obedience  to  the  command  of  Heaven,  multiplied  and  replenished 
the  earth.'  I  know  not  whether  I  ought  most  to  admire  or 
lament  him.  To  multiply  the  earth  is  simple  nonsense.  But 
how  does  he  know,  tvith  infallible  certainty,  that  the  population 
of  the  earth  proceeded  from  one  man  ?  He  forgot  that  he  was 
an  historian,  and  not  a  preacher.  For  my  part,  I  cannot  see 
such  a  wise,  industrious,  and  enlightened  writer  drop  from  his 
eminence  into  the  cant  and  slang  of  a  pulpit  without  sorrow 
and  disgust. 

When  the  English  Parliament  drew  the  sword  against  Charles, 
they  should  have  abandoned  all  thoughts  of  a  reconciliation 
with  him  on  any  terms,  and  abolished  the  office  of  kino-  in  a 
smgle  person.  Then,  perhaps,  they  might  have  maintained  a 
mixed  republic  on  the  Eoman  model,  with  executive  magistrates, 
to  be  annually  elected,  a  senate  preserved  in  the  House  of 
Lords,  and  the  people  represented  in  the  House  of  Commons.  I 
speak  doubtfully  of  the  success  of  such  a  plan,  because  I  believe 
that  a  majority  of  the  nation  would  not  have  concurred  in  it. 
They  failed  by  attempting  to  reconcile  contradictions.  They, 
in  fact,  proclaimed  the  king  to  be  a  tyrant  by  taking  up  arms 
against  him,  and  then  they  negotiated  with  him ;  as  if  it  had 
been  possible  to  reduce  a  corrupt  despotism  to  a  limited 
monarchy  in  the  same  person,  or  even  in  the  same  family.  The 
French  made  a  similar  mistake  in  1791.     Instead  of  resolvino- 

o 

'  Vide  Souvenirs  de  Vinyt  Ans,  i.  171. 
VOL.  II.  K  K 


498  APPENDIX. 

at  once  to  extirpate  the  tyranny,  they  thought  they  could  prune 
it,  and  that,  when  it  was  corrected  and  restrained,  it  might 
safely  be  reinstated.  But  they  soon  found  that  the  pretensions 
of  arbitrary  power  dispossessed  are  never  relinquished.  All  that 
it  recovers  is  a  right  to  be  resumed.  All  that  it  loses  is  a  wrong 
to  be  repaii'ed.  The  wisest  course  would  have  been  to  invest 
one  man  with  full  power  to  form  and  establish  a  new  constitu- 
tion, on  a  given  principle.  A  greater  number  would  not  have 
agreed  in  choosing  the  best  plan ;  much  less,  when  it  was 
adopted,  would  they  have  agreed  in  destroying  it.  If  the 
prejudices  or  disposition  of  a  majority  of  the  nation  had  made 
such  a  measure  impracticable  or  too  hazardous  in  the  first 
instance,  they  should  have  chosen  another  king,  without  any 
hereditary  claim  or  title  by  succession,  and  settled  the  consti- 
tution under  him  on  their  own  terms. 

The  mischiefs  of  election  are  more  in  the  vices  of  the  people 
than  of  the  king,  and  show  that  pure  theories,  without  alloy, 
are  too  fine  for  common  use.  Electors  are  so  corrupt  and 
degenerate,  that  instead  of  choosing  they  sell.  In  Poland 
every  other  part  of  the  government  was  ill  constituted,  and 
manners  universally  depraved.  The  ruin  of  such  a  nation  was 
inevitable,  though  sometimes  delayed  or  evaded  by  the  election 
of  a  king,  when  they  were  driven  by  necessity  to  choose  a  good 
one.  If,  during  the  contest,  an  arbitrary  power  has  been 
usurped,  the  best  way  is  to  choose  the  usurper,  supposing  him  in 
other  respects  qualified  and  equal  to  the  office,  and  with  nothing 
to  answer  for  much  worse  than  his  ambition,  and  to  give  him  a 
legal  title.  Wise  laws  are  favourable  to  possession,  not  for  the 
f^ake  of  the  possessor,  but  to  promote  tranquillity  and  concord — 
ut  sit  finis  lltium.  By  those  of  England,  a  king  de  facto  is  as 
well  protected  against  treason,  and  must  be  as  exactly  obeyed, 
as  if  his  title  were  unquestionable.  His  power  to  protect,  if  he 
uses  it  for  that  purpose,  gives  him  a  right  to  allegiance.  The 
service  and  the  claim  are  reciprocal.  Were  it  otherwise,  one 
part  of  the  nation,  at  every  revolution  in  the  government, 
would  be  liable  to  be  proscribed,  if  not  massacred,  by  the  other. 
In  ancient  times,  the  English  Parliament  generally  acted  on  this 
principle  :  the  usurper  must  be  a  man  of  abilities;  and,  finding 
his  place  secured  and  his  safety  jjrovided  for  by  law,  he  would 
])robably  consider  the  law  as  his  title,  and  defend  it  for  his  own 
sake. 


APPENDIX.  490 

Hereditary  succession  has  the  advantage  of  precluding  con- 
tests, usually  managed  by  corruption  and  often  determined  by 
violence.  But  minors  and  idiots  take  their  turn,  and,  in  a  few 
generations,  the  best  of  princes  are  apt  to  forget  themselves  and 
their  origin,  and  to  derive  their  power  from  a  source  which 
makes  them  not  accountable  on  earth.  If  the  right  be  divine, 
the  exercise  of  it  cannot  be  subject  to  human  cognizance.  The 
people  are  at  perfect  liberty  to  trust  in  Providence  for  justice 
hereafter,  provided  that,  in  the  meantime,  they  suffer  and  obey. 
Temporal  power  must  be  insatiable,  if  it  be  not  contented  with 
a  passive  obedience,  which  submits  quietly  and  looks  for  com- 
pensation to  a  future  retribution  in  some  other  state  of  ex- 
istence. The  House  of  Hanover  had  not  been  near  a  century 
on  the  throne,  when  it  was  publicly  maintained  and  received  in 
England  with  unbounded  applause  as  pure  constitutional  doc- 
trine, 'that  kings  were  to  account  for  their  conduct  to  the  one 
great  Master,  Author,  and  Founder  of  society.' '  James  the  First 
and  Charles  the  First  claimed  this  responsibility,  in  the  same 
terms,  as  their  divine  right.  They  both  maintained  'that  for 
the  exercise  of  the  prerogatives  of  their  inaperial  crown,  they 
were  not  bound  to  render  any  account  but  to  God  alone.'  To 
that  unseen  tribunal  and  distant  reckoning  all  kings  are  ready  to 
hold  themselves  amenable ;  and,  though  they  can  do  no  wrong  in 
this  world,  they  had  rather  be  tried  and  convicted  in  any  other. 
It  is  their,  claim  and  their  privilege  that,  in  them  alone,  the 
punishment  of  guilt  should  be  sheltered  from  human  justice  by 
an  appeal  to  that  of  Heaven. 

If,  in  the  appointment  of  a  king,  election  be  preferred  to  suc- 
cession, it  ought  to  be  of  persons,  not  families.  Otherwise  you 
have  the  benefit  of  the  principle  only  for  a  life,  and  then  you 
abandon  it.  If  Cromwell  had  been  chosen  by  common  consent 
and  his  safety  provided  for,  he  would  probably  have  filled  the 
throne  with  dignity,  and  executed  his  office  with  moderation. 
The  king  would  have  been  a  very  different  person  from  the 
protector.  He  was  a  wise  man,  if  wisdom  and  ambition  are 
compatible,  and  he  had  some  good  qualities,  particularly 
temper;  but  it  is  not  easy  to  be  honest  and  ambitious.  The 
factions  that  divided  the  country  made  it  almost  impossible 
that  the  power  of  the  Parliament  could  have  continued  much 

'  Edmund  Burko,  p.  138. 


600  APPENDIX. 

longer,  even  if  it  had  not  been  dissolved  by  Cromwell.  Sooner 
or  later  it  would  have  devolved  to  a  single  person,  as  it  did  to 
one  of  the  worst  of  the  human  species,  when  the  Long  Parlia- 
ment was  restored.  Cromwell's  cruelty  to  the  Catholics  in 
Ireland  must  always  be  excepted  I'rom  any  good  that  can  be 
said  of  him.  Though  guilty  of  some  acts  of  violence  in  England 
after  he  had  assumed  the  government,  it  was  not  so  much  to 
serve  his  ambition,  the  principal  object  of  which  was  accom- 
plished, as  to  secure  his  safety.  He  did  very  little  gratuitous 
mischief,  and  none  that  he  thought  so.  He  was  not  naturally 
cruel  or  revengeful.  His  personal  security  engrossed  too  much 
of  his  attention,  and  drove  him  to  severities,  without  which  an 
usurper  cannot  be  safe,  but  which  monarchs,  with  an  undisputed 
title  and  no  necessity,  are  equally  ready  to  resort  to.  All  per- 
sonal power  is  adverse  to  restraint  and  fond  of  short  courses.  I 
have  no  more  a  disposition  to  be  ill  governed  by  an  usurped 
than  by  an  hereditary  power  ;  but  if  I  were  forced  to  choose,  I 
am  sure  it  would  be  my  interest  to  prefer  the  new  dominion ; 
for  princes,  once  dispossessed  for  misconduct,  are  never  to  be 
trusted.  A  domestic  usurper  can  have  no  foreign  interests,  pre- 
judices, attachments,  or  connections,  and  he  must  be  a  man  of 
abilities.  For  the  success  of  his  purposes,  it  is  essential  to  him 
to  acquire  reputation,  which  cannot  be  had  without  some 
mixture  of  generosity,  real  or  pretended.  He  must  see  that,  to 
enjoy  the  object  of  his  ambition,  and  still  more  to  insure  the 
succession  in  his  family,  the  best  course  for  himself  is  to  use  his 
power  gently  and  to  govern  with  moderation.  In  a  few  gene- 
rations the  succeeding  occupants  would  stand  on  their  inheri- 
tance, and  act  accordingly,  until  they,  in  their  turn,  were  forced 
to  give  way  to  another  usurpation.  Cromwell  was  driven  to 
govern  by  power,  because  the  factions  among  his  own  party,  as 
well  as  the  royalists  and  presbyterians,  would  not  suffer  him  to 
govern  by  law  ;  as  if  it  were  better  to  have  a  real  dictator  than 
a  titular  king.  '  In  England  his  government  was,  to  be  sure, 
somewhat  rigid,  but,  for  a  new  power,  no  savage  tyranny.  The 
laws  in  general  had  their  course,  and  were  admirably  ad- 
ministered.'' 

In  himself,  perhaps,  there  might  have  been  some  motives  of 
personal  vanity  to  wear  a  crown ;  but  there  could  be  no  public 

'  Edmund  Burke. 


APPENDIX.  501 

wisdom  or  consistency  in  refusing,  as  the  Romans  did  to  Julius 
Caesar,  the  name  of  king  to  him,  who  already  possessed  mucli 
more  than  regal  power  under  another  designation.  The  envy  of 
individuals,  in  his  own  party,  prevented  a  settlement  in  that 
form.  The  nation,  it  was  said,  could  not  endure  a  limited 
monarchy  in  the  person  of  Cromwell ;  but  they  submitted  to  an 
arbitrary  protectorate,  whose  powers  were  indefinite.  They 
swore  to  be  faithful  to  his  son,  and  then  they  restored  the 
crown,  without  limitations  or  conditions,  through  the  treachery 
of  Monk,  to  the  basest  of  mankind ;  all  which  we  owe  to  the 
servile  precipitation  and  treachery  of  the  Presbyterians,  in 
whose  hands  the  whole  efficient  power  of  the  kingdom  was 
vested  at  that  time.  In  times  of  contest  and  violence 
excluding  choice,  it  is  in  vain  to  look  for  strict  and  perfect 
right  in  the  original  assumption  of  powers.  Undoubtedly,  to 
give  it  that  character,  it  ought  to  proceed  from  national  choice, 
which,  as  the  act  or  volition  of  a  great  country,  cannot  prac- 
tically be  better  expressed  than  by  general  consent  or  acqui- 
escence. But  this,  the  best  of  all  titles  to  power  and  to  be  held 
as  a  trust,  is  too  rare  in  the  world  to  furnish  precedents  in 
favour  of  election  to  fill  the  ofiice  of  king.  The  usurper  who 
uses  his  power  with  prudence  and  moderation,  makes  good  his 
title.  How  does  it  appear  that  any  one  of  the  dynasties  which 
actually  govern  the  world  was  not  founded  in  fraud  or  violence  ? 
The  origin  of  most  of  them  is  too  remote  or  obscure  to  be 
examined.  Of  the  purity  of  the  source  there  is  no  evidence. 
The  impurity  of  the  stream  wants  none.  Ambition  and  con- 
science are  not  made  to  live  together ;  but  he  who  has  great 
objects  must  have  some  magnanimity.  Except  kings  who  have 
inherited  arbitrary  power  or  held  it  very  long,  there  are  idiots 
enough,  but  no  mere  devils,  left  in  Europe,  even  in  the  highest 
classes  of  mankind.  In  the  first  years  of  usurpation,  the  govern- 
ment is  commonly  mild  and  popular.  The  natural  tendency  of 
a  long  possession,  a  secure  title  and  no  pretender,  is  to  convert 
monarchy  into  tyranny,  in  its  turn  to  be  extirpated  and  suc- 
ceeded by  another  usurpation.-  This  danger  as  to  England  is 
too  remote  to  be  permitted  or  regarded.  The  qualifications  of 
the  House  of  Brunswick  secure  us  from  any  enterprise  that 
would  require  character,  courage,  common  sense,  or  the  trust 
and  confidence  of  any  man  who  knew  them  to  make  it  successful. 
Excepting,  perhaps,  in  Russia,  where  one  frantic  fool  (Paul) 


502  APPENDIX. 

was  endured  for  five  years  before  they  murdered  him,  it  is  not 
possible  that  in  Europe  a  false,  a  base,  unfeeling,  ignorant, 
perfidious,  cowardly  voluptuary,  can  be  in  himself  a  formidable 
person  in  any  station,  certainly  not  very  long.  Cromwell  might 
easily  have  purchased  or  procured  the  assassination  of  all  the 
Stuart  family.  The  royal  party  made  no  scruple  to  set  him  a 
sufficient  example,  and  a  common  usurper  would  have  followed 
it.  Whether  his  forbearance  proceeded  from  scruple,  indiffer- 
ence, or  good  humour,  there  is  reason  enough  now  to  lament 
that,  after  his  declaration  that  he  would  avenge  on  that  whole 
family  any  further  unsuccessful  attempt  against  his  life,  he  was 
not  provoked  to  go  the  full  length  of  that  principle.  In  his 
foreign  politics  it  may  be  doubted  whether  he  understood  the 
true  interests  of  the  nation  ;  but  he  certainly  maintained  its 
honour,  the  only  thing  worth  fighting  for,  according  to  Charles 
Fox,  with  a  high  hand,  after  a  long  neglect  and  degradation  of 
both  by  Charles  and  his  father.  They  who  condemn  him  for 
want  of  policy  iu  joining  with  France  against  Spain,  which  then 
made  part  of  the  House  of  Austria,  seem  to  argue  upon  after- 
thoughts with  the  help  of  experience.  The  power  of  France 
was  not  formidable  to  the  rest  of  Europe  in  1655,  while  the 
Thirty  Years'  War,  the  desolation  of  Germany,  and  the  fierce, 
bigoted  tyranny  of  Ferdinand  the  Third,  were  fresh  in  the 
memory  of  all  men.  When  that  of  Spain  was  perhaps  sufii- 
ciently  reduced,  the  principle  of  opposing  and  lowering  it  still 
prevailed.  Charles  the  Second  is  not  condemned  for  supporting 
the  separation  and  independence  of  Portugal.  Cromwell's 
object  was  not  to  possess  himself  of  territory  on  the  Continent, 
but  ports  and  harbours  on  the  coast  of  Flanders.  In  his  hands, 
the  possession  of  them  would  have  furnished  the  means  not 
only  of  extending  and  protecting  our  foreign  trade,  but  of 
checking  the  enterprises  of  France,  particularly  against  Flan- 
ders and  Holland.  With  this  view,  he  made  Dunkirk  his  object, 
and  persisted  in  it.  The  Spaniards  had  made  him  an  empty 
chimerical  offer  of  putting  him  in  re-possession  of  Calais,  viz. 
when  it  should  be  taken  by  their  united  forces.  But  Cromwell 
knew  their  weakness  and  their  perfidy  too  well  to  have  any  con- 
tract or  concern  with  them.  So  he  closed  with  France,  and  by 
that  measure  obtained  Dunkirk.  The  merits  of  this  question  have 
been  so  ably  argued  and  truly  stated  already  in  the  collection 
of  Treaties  published  in  1785,  that  the  wisdom  of  his  conduct 


APPENDIX.  503 

in  this  instance  need  not  be  insisted  on.  At  his  death  he  left  a 
fleet  of  1 60  ships,  with  which,  as  Lewis  the  Fourteenth  says, '  He 
might  have  undertaken  great  actions.'  The  political  existence 
of  his  son  was  too  short  and  insignificant  to  deserve  much 
notice.  Yet  if  princes  could  be  taught  by  example  it  would 
furnish  them  with  a  good  lesson.  The  whole  nation  pretended 
to  congratulate  Richard  on  his  accession,  and  promised  to 
support  him,  as  usual,  with  their  lives  and  fortunes,  and  in 
three  years  after  made  the  same  professions  to  Charles  the 
Second. 

No  society  can  exist  without  some  kind  of  government,  nor 
any  established  government  changed  without  changing  every- 
thing else  ;  and  this  is  so  difficult  that  human  force  cannot  do  it. 
The  legislatt:rs  of  ancient  times  called  in  divine  authority  to 
their  assistance,  and  were  followed  by  Mahomet.  But  that 
engine  will  not  do  now.  In  England  the  general  disposition  of 
the  people,  compounded  of  habit,  prejudice,  religion  and  igno- 
rance, is,  and  commonly  has  been,  more  likely  to  acquiesce  in 
the  will  of  the  absolute  prince,  if  he  has  the  church  on  his  side, 
and  is  wise  enough  not  to  use  his  power  but  when  he  wants  it, 
than  under  any  form  of  a  republic.  From  the  deposition  of  Charles 
the  First  to  1660,  all  the  forms  were  tried,  until  at  last  a  great 
majority,  if  not  the  whole  nation,  agreed  or  submitted  to  restore 
his  son  without  terms,  or  on  his  own.  Most  men  were  grown 
weary  of  discord,  and  glad  to  be  quiet  at  any  rate,  and  to  be 
ruled  in  domestic  peace  by  anybody.  They  who  ought  to  have 
secured  the  country,  betrayed  and  sold  it.  In  a  mere  court  of 
conscience  much  may  be  said  in  favour  of  bad  kings,  and  even 
to  exempt  the  worst  of  them  from  positive  punishment ;  for  how 
is  it  possible  they  should  be  any  better  ?  If  you  will  have  a 
king,  you  must  take  him  with  his  education  and  his  power. 
What  do  you  expect  from  a  creature  who  is  never  contradicted 
from  his  cradle  ? 

For  the  meanness  and  baseness  of  Charles  the  Second,  there 
is  no  excuse.  He  had  wit,  penetration  and  experience,  the  best 
instruction  of  all ;  but  his  heart  was  rotten,  and  nothing  could 
mend  him.  The  prevailing  indolence  of  his  disposition  saved 
him  from  the  commission  of  crimes  that  require  activity  and 
vigour. 

He  was  at  once  ungrateful  and  vindictive ;  at  all  times  purely 
and  perfectly  selfish,  caring  just  as  much  for  his  friends  as  his 


504  APPENDIX. 

enemies,  when  he  believed  they  could  do  him  no  more  good  or 
evil.  He  was  not  morose  in  his  temper,  nor  perhaps  personally 
cruel,  because  he  was  not  religious  like  his  father  and  brother. 
A  melancholy  sight  would  have  interrupted  his  gaiety.  The 
rest  of  his  character  shall  be  left  to  an  abler  hand.'  '  He  was  a 
man  without  any  sense  of  his  duty  as  a  prince,  without  any 
regard  to  the  dignity  of  the  crown ;  without  any  love  to  his  people; 
dissolute,  false,  venal,  and  destitute  of  any  positive  good  quality 
whatsoever,  except  a  pleasant  temper,  and  the  manners  of  a 
gentleman.'  Inclination  or  connections  restrained  Edmund 
Burke  from  finishing  the  picture,  and  from  making  the  original 
as  ridiculous  and  contemptible  as  it  was  odious.  Charles  the 
Second  ended  like  a  driveller.  To  save  his  precious  soul,  the  royal 
sinner  made  his  last  confession  to  an  ignorant  Popish  priest, 
received  absolution,  and  died  with  what  he  thought  the  body 
and  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  in  his  mouth  in  the  shape  of  a 
wafer. 

When  the  Scotch  clergy  forced  him  to  adopt  the  Kirk,  to 
renounce  his  father  and  mother,  to  swallow  the  Covenant,  and 
at  length  to  listen  to  their  sermons,  which  no  tyranny  but  a 
priesthood  would  have  exacted  from  human  patience,  I  feel 
very  little  indignation  of  their  treatment  of  him,  because  I  am 
sure  that  if  he  had  had  them  in  his  power,  he  would  have  paid 
them  in  their  own  coin,  not  indeed  by  preaching  and  praying,  for 
which  he  had  no  turn,  but  by  scourging  them  to  the  bone,  as  he 
and  his  brother  did  afterwards.  This  example,  considered  on 
both  its  sides,  proves  two  things  :  the  propensity  of  man  to  be  a 
king  on  any  terms ;  and  that  arbitrary  power  is  just  as  good  in 
the  few  as  in  the  many,  and  probably  better,  if  the  many  should 
happen  to  be  religious.  In  the  understanding  of  James  the  Second 
it  is  difficult  to  discover  a  ray  of  right  reason,  or  a  human  feeling 
in  his  heart.  To  call  such  a  barbarous  bigot  pious  is  to  degrade 
the  name  of  piety.  In  addition  to  all  the  mysteries  and  follies 
of  his  own  creed,  he  firmly  believed  what  the  Church  of  England, 
as  by  latv  established,  professes,  '  that  good  works,  done  without 
grace  or  inspiration,  have  the  nature  of  sin.''  With  less  religious 
zeal  and  more  caution,  he  might  have  governed  the  country  as 
he  would.     There  was  no  spirit  of  resistance  left  in  it.     With 

■  Edmund  Burke. 


APPENDIX.  505 

or  without  his  religion,  he  would  have  been  a  mean  merciless 
tyrant  to  the  extent  of  his  power.  In  this  character  the  Scotch 
have  more  reason  to  remember  him  than  the  English.  But  his 
stupid  devotion  to  Popery  blinded  him  in  the  pursuit  of  his 
object,  and  saved  us  from  the  despotic  government  which  he 
had  accomplished  and  might  have  preserved.  If  he  had  not 
frighted  the  hierarchy,  the  passive  loyal  Church  of  England 
would  have  scrupled  to  oppose  him  in  any  of  his  other  projects. 
The  seven  bishops,  whose  magnanimity  has  been  much  more 
extolled  than  it  deserved,  went  no  farther  than  to  say,  and  that 
too  with  the  utmost  caution  and  secrecy,  as  if  they  thought  of 
nothing  but  their  own  personal  security,  '  that  they  could  not  so 
far  make  themselves  parties  to  the  king's  declaration  as  the 
distribution  of  it  must  amount  to.'  In  Scotland  the  prelates 
publicly  prayed,  in  1688,  '  that  Providence  might  give  the  king 
the  hearts  of  his  subjects  and  the  necks  of  his  enemies.'  As  for 
the  people,  there  was  but  one  sort  of  tyranny,  which,  with  a 
little  management,  he  might  not  have  exercised  over  the  English 
with  success  and  impunity.  They  were  content  to  be  robbed 
and  enslaved,  but  not  to  be  converted.  At  this  day,  no  human 
artifice  or  power  would  be  sufficient  to  make  the  Britannic  part 
of  this  nation  adopt  the  Eoman  Catholic  creed,  or  even  pretend 
to  be  papists. 

After  all  men  were  convinced  that  James  the  Second  was  deter- 
mined to  destroy  the  establishment  in  Church  and  State,  a  majority 
of  the  nation  would  have  kept  him  on  the  throne,  with  limitations; 
and  after  his  abdication,  a  great  party  would  have  recalled  him. 
The  passion  of  the  countrj^  for  hereditary  succession  was  as 
hearty  and  absurd  as  that  of  the  king  for  the  infallibility  of  the 
Pope. 

A  wise  and  resolute  minority  saved  us.  They  saw  that 
their  purpose  could  not  be  effected  by  anything  less  than  a 
revolution,  and  they  were  not  deterred  from  attempting  it  by 
the  recent  example  and  final  inutility  of  a  civil  war,  undertaken 
in  similar  circumstances.  With  that  precedent  and  all  its 
consequences  before  them,  they  weighed  their  danger,  and 
determined  to  encounter  it.  But  it  degrades  the  pride  of 
England  to  see  that  the  nation  had  not  vigour  and  spirit,  or 
even  sense  enough  left,  to  right  itself  without  foreign  assistance. 
The  question   of  the  birth  of  his  son  is  not   cleared  up.      I 


oOG  APPENDIX. 

would  prove  him  to  be  legitimate,  because  I  think  it  unworthy 
of  the  revolution  that  any  argument  in  favour  of  it  should 
stand  upon  a  false  and  mean  foundation,  or  to  suppose  that 
every  claim  attached  to  hereditary  succession  was  not  avowedly 
extinguished  by  that  transaction. 

It  is  melancholy  to  contemplate  the  distress  of  a  great  under- 
standing, laboiu-ing  to  reconcile  the  revolution  with  its  own 
implicit  devotion  to  an  hereditary  title. 

'  Unquestionably  there  was  at  the  Eevolution,  in  the  person  of 
King  William,  a  small  and  a  temporary  deviation  from  the 
strict  order  of  a  regular  hereditary  succession.'^  He  who  lauds 
at  Lambeth  from  the  opposite  shore,  has  crossed  the  river  as 
effectually  as  if  he  had  afterwards  walked  from  Lambeth  to 
Canterbury.  How  Edmund  Burke  would  have  disposed  of  James 
the  Second,  I  know  not;  but  I  am  sure  that,  on  his  principles, 
the  right  of  the  Prince  of  Wales,  if  he  was  the  king's  son,  was 
indefeasible.  Queen  Anne  could  have  no  right  to  exclude  her 
brother,  nor  would  the  crown  have  reverted  to  her,  or  to  any 
other  branch  of  the  House  of  Stuart,  if  King  William  had  had 
a  SOD. 

The  question  of  the  pretended  Prince  of  Wales'  birth  is  still 
left  in  obscurity.  Without  regarding  the  evidence  or  authority 
of  Burnet,  we  know  that  some  fraud  was  generally  suspected 
long  before  the  Queen's  delivery  ;  and  that,  at  a  time  when  it 
was  natural  that  more  than  common  care  should  have  been 
taken  to  establish  the  reality  of  the  birth,  many  of  the  usual 
forms  and  precautions  observed  on  such  occasions,  when  no 
suspicion  exists,  were  omitted.  An  inquiry  made  and  wit- 
nesses examined,  four  months  afterwards,  are  a  proof  of  the 
omission  without  weakening  the  inference.  In  Oldmixon's' 
history  the  question  is  stated  and  argued  at  full  length. 
At  this  day,  it  is  a  point  or  object  of  mere  curiosity.  The 
reigning  family  owe  the  crown  to  a  much  better  title  than 
birth,  had  it  been  ever  so  legitimate  in  the  pretended  Prince  of 
Wales.  He  says  that,  in  1701,  the  people  of  'England  had  a 
universal  belief  of  the  spuriousness  of  the  pretended  Prince  of 
Wales.'  They  who  profess  to  think  it  unlikely  that  James 
should  stifle  the  voice  of  nature  to  injure  his  daughters,  who 

'  Dalrymple. 

'  Eurico's  Reflections  on  the  Revolution  in  Franco,  p.  23. 

=  P.  730. 


APPENDIX.  507 

Lad  never  injured  him,  are  not  sincere,  or  they  are  unacquainted 
with  the  principles  of  bigotry,  or  with  the  pious  frauds  which 
are  permitted  for  the  service  of  celibacy  and  the  priesthood. 
In  former  times  at  least  it  was  not  difficult  to  obtain  absolution 
for  much  greater  crimes  than  depriving  a  right  heir  of  his 
inheritance  to  an  office,  provided  they  were  serviceable  to  the 
Church. 

When  the  Convention  declared  the  throne  vacant,  they  in- 
stantly made  the  monarchy  elective  for  that  turn ;  because,  as 
long  as  the  crown  is  hereditary,  there  can  be  no  vacancy,  but 
by  the  entire  extinction  of  the  royal  family.  Between  the  de- 
mise and  the  accession  there  is  no  interval.  If  any  man  doubts 
of  the  natural  affinity  between  a  tyrant  and  a  slave,  let  him 
look  at  James  the  Second ;  not  when  his  mind  was  perplexed  with 
danger  or  dejected  by  adversity,  but  at  the  moment  of  his  ac- 
cession, when  the  novelty  of  the  crown  might  have  inspired  any 
other  man  with  pride  at  least,  if  not  with  generosity.  As  far  as 
his  actions  were  governed  by  a  common  love  of  power,  or  an 
uncommon  attachment  to  what  he  thought  the  only  true  reli- 
gion, they  may  be  accounted  for  by  natural  motives,  or  on 
human  principles,  base  injustice  and  exorbitant  folly.  But  this 
man  had  properly  no  ambition,  unless  it  was  to  be  distinguished 
by  the  meanest  mercenary  servility  to  one  of  his  equals.  For 
the  sake  of  ruling  England  without  a  Parliament,  in  order  to 
establish  popery,  to  which  he  would  have  sacrificed  even  his 
passion  for  power,  he  was  ready  to  be  the  hired  lackey  of  Lewis 
the  Fourteenth;  he  calls  himself  his  faithful  servant,  and  accepts 
of  a  present  of  i62  5,000  from  him  with  tears  of  gratitude ! ' 
His  vile  ministers,  Grodolphin,  Eochester,  and  Sunderland,  told 
the  ?\ench  ambassador  that  he  had  given  new  life  to  the  king  their 
master.  When  Eichard  the  Second  declared  to  the  Commons  in 
1386,  'that  nothing  seemed  better  for  him  than  to  call  in  his 
cousin  the  King  of  France,  and  from  him  to  ask  advice  and  aid ; 
naj',  even  to  submit  ourselves  to  him,  rather  than  to  truckle  to 
our  own.  subjects,'  the  fact,  though  unquestionable,  has  been 
doubted,  from  its  extravagance.  Such  unparalleled  baseness 
and  folly  seemed  incredible  in  a  king  of  England,  and  a  son  of 
the  Black  Prince.  The  character  of  King  William  is  not  to  be 
estimated  by  superficial  observation,  or  rationally  admired  by 

»  Barillon,  Feb.  20,  1085. 


508  APPENDIX. 

vulgar  eyes  ;  much  less  are  tis  merits,  as  a  king,  to  be  measured 
by  English  principles.  In  his  manners  and  personal  deport- 
ment, everything  was  repelling.  The  professions  that  attract, 
the  ostentation  that  dazzles,  the  pomp  that  imposes,  were  fo- 
reign from  his  nature  as  well  as  below  his  understanding.  These 
vanities,  and  many  more,  were  personified  in  Lewis  the  Four- 
teenth, and  glittered  round  him  as  long  as  his  prosperity  lasted. 
Even  his  setting  sun,  though  clouded  by  misfortune,  left  some 
radiance  behind  it,  now  utterly  extinguished.  Eeferring  every- 
thing to  himself,  he  formed  his  government  on  personal  prin- 
ciples, and  had  nearly  reduced  the  existence  of  the  monarchy 
to  the  life  of  an  individual.  He  was  young,  vigorous,  and  bril- 
liant. He  declined,  grew  feeble,  decrepit,  and  devout.  His 
empire  was  identified  with  his  person,  and  experienced  the 
same  revolutions.  Never  did  superficial  reputation  occupy  so 
great  a  surface  with  less  solidity.  But  it  is  vain  to  pay  for 
puffed  and  painted  characters.  The  bubble  floats  for  a  time, 
and  then  it  bursts.  The  exact  reverse  is  the  picture  of  King 
William.  As  a  public  person,  all  the  qualities  of  his  cold, 
steady,  determined  mind  were  real,  solid,  and  intrinsic.  He 
was  eminently  tenacious  of  his  purpose,  and  all  his  general  pur- 
poses were  great  and  noble;  to  resist  powerful  injustice,  and  to 
protect  the  Continent  of  Europe  in  the  vicinity  of  France  from 
the  vain  and  barbarous  ambition  of  Lewis  the  Fourteenth.  See 
him  contending  for  his  country  overpowered  by  superior  force, 
unsuccessful  in  the  field,  persevering  without  hope  of  accom- 
plishing his  object,  and  with  a  mind  never  to  be  subdued,  deter- 
mined to  die  in  the  last  ditch  that  defended  his  native  land. 

He  who  has  abundant  resources  may  affect  to  be  scrupulous 
in  the  choice  of  them.  William  had  few  means  and  no  scruples. 
It  is  said  he  was  ambitious,  as  if  that  were  a  new  feature  in 
the  character  of  princes,  and  that  he  violated  some  factitious 
duties  in  dethroning  his  wife's  father,  who  betrayed  and  sold 
him,  and  Holland,  and  England,  and  the  liberty  of  Europe,  and 
even  himself,  for  a  pension.  Private  gratitude  supposes  obli- 
gation. He  owed  none  to  that  hard-hearted  tyrant,  and,  as  for 
his  ambition,  placed  as  he  was,  it  would  have  been  a  duty  in  a 
Stoic.  He  knew  his  dignity  and  his  merits,  and  had  a  right  to 
make  his  own  terms.  I  do  not  believe  that  he  was  influenced 
by  the  pitiful  vanity  of  wearing  a  crown,  nor  is  it  of  any  moment 
whether  he  was  or  not.     He  grasped  and  wielded  the  force  of 


APPENDIX.  509 

England  as  a  weapon  to  defend  the  Continent  of  Europe.  To 
this  object  his  whole  life  was  devoted,  in  thought,  in  action,  in 
repose,  in  death.  He  had  no  partiality  but  to  Holland  ;  some 
friendship  for  his  wife ;  no  tenderness  for  anybody  but  Bentinck ; 
no  weakness  but  for  his  Dutch  guards.  For  any  sinister  pur- 
pose a  single  regiment  could  have  been  of  no  service,  and  to 
attempt  to  make  use  of  it  instant  ruin.  The  refusal  of  the 
House  of  Commons  to  continue  any  foreign  troops  in  England, 
was  wise,  constitutional,  and  proper  for  an  English  Parliament. 
The  exotic  kernel  once  planted  in  our  soil  will  take  root  and 
propagate  itself.  Dalrymple  concludes  his  account  of  King 
William  with  asserting,  '  that  a  well  vouched  tradition  reported 
that,  on  this  occasion  only,  he  lost  his  temper,  and  swore  that 
if  he  had  a  son  those  guards  should  not  quit  him.''  For  the 
truth  of  the  story,  and  even  for  the  existence  of  it,  no  evidence 
is  offered,  nor  any  authority  but  his  own.  The  folly  of  the 
speech  betrays  the  malignity  and  falsehood  of  the  inventor. 
King  William  was  too  wise  to  have  hazarded  the  succession  of 
his  son,  as  he  must  have  done  by  detaining  a  small  body  of 
foreigners  in  England  against  a  resolution  in  Parliament,  and 
who  could  have  given  him  no  manner  of  assistance. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  patriots,  who  conducted  and  accom- 
plished the  Eevolution,  acted  with  consummate  wisdom,  as  well 
as  moderation,  in  applying  the  remedies  of  that  measure  to  the 
actual  disorders  introduced  into  the  Grovernment  by  James  the 
Second,  in  restoring  the  rights  which  had  been  positively  invaded, 
in  confining  their  attention  to  heal  the  peccant  parts  of  the  con- 
stitution, and  in  not  attempting  to  renovate  and  secure  it  on  its 
own  original  principles.  This  language  is  not  convincing,  and 
should  be  listened  to  with  caution.  It  appears  that  the  Whigs 
of  that  d9.y  did  all  that  was  in  their  power,  being  forced  at 
every  step  to  compound  with  a  powerful  opposition,  and  some- 
times to  resist  a  majority.  Their  forbearance  may  be  excused 
by  the  compelling  circumstances  in  which  they  acted,  but  is  not 
to  be  commended  on  principle.  The  Prince  of  Orange  said 
that  he  came  to  restore  the  ancient  constitution  of  this  Govern- 
ment. They  should  have  taken  him  at  his  word,  and  re- 
established the  true  constitution,  not  by  mending  and  patching, 
but  by  giving  it  a  thorough  repair  on  its  own  foundation,  and 
precluding  the  necessity  of  returning  to  their  work,  when  the 
best  opportunity  for  making  it  perfect  was  past.     Then  was  the 


CIO  ArPENDIX. 

time  to  have  revived  and  re-affirmed  the  original  contract  with 
the  Crown,  as  they  found  it  in  the  ancient  standing  law  of  the 
kingdom  acknowledged  by  the  coronation  oath,  or  to  have  made 
a  new  one  on  the  old  principles.  They  took  no  care  to  secure 
the  independence  of  the  judges,  or  the  purity  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  or  to  shorten  the  duration  of  Parliament,  and,  with 
a  foreign  king,  they  left  the  pretended  prerogative  of  the  Crown 
to  involve  the  nation  in  continental  wars,  or  to  ruin  it  by 
treaties,  at  the  discretion  of  a  single  person,  just  as  they  found 
it ;  as  if  the  rights  of  war  and  peace  were  unquestionably  vested 
in  the  king,  and  in  him  alone,  as  if  the  deliberation  and  reso- 
lution ought  not  to  be  in  many,  because  the  administration  of 
war  must  be  and  ought  to  be  in  one.  Charles  the  Second 
called  it  ike  undoubted  right  and  fundamental  poiuer  of  the 
Crown.  The  claim  was  before  their  eyes ;  the  abuses  of  it 
recent ;  and  they  took  no  notice  of  either. 

At  this  day,  it  is  a  proposition  admitted  or  uncontradicted,  as 
if  it  could  not  be  disputed,  that  the  king,  by  virtue  of  his 
unalienable  prerogative,  may  not  only  declare  war  at  any  time 
and  against  any  power,  on  his  own  judgment  and  without  con- 
sulting Parliament,  but,  what  is  infinitely  more  dangerous,  he 
may  make  war  when  he  pleases,  without  declaring  it ;  which  tlie 
Emperor  of  Morocco  or  the  Dey  of  Algiers  never  does.  Here- 
after it  will  appear  in  what  manner  and  for  what  infamous 
purposes  this  pretended  power  has  been  exercised  by  George  the 
Third.  The  benefits  of  the  Eevolution  and  Act  of  Settlement, 
whatever  they  might  amount  to,  have  not  been  obtained  gra- 
tuitously. Our  ancestors,  after  paying  the  full  price  of  both, 
have  entailed  it  again,  a  perpetual  rent  charge  on  their  posterity, 
to  secure  a  new  dynasty  and  to  maintain  wars  on  the  Conti- 
nent. The  invention  of  borrowing  on  funds  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  a  public  debt,  on  which  it  has  been  found  so  very  easy 
and  convenient  to  build,  that,  in  the  course  of  a  century,  above 
eight  hundred  millions  have  been  borrowed,  and  for  the  most 
part  spent  in  foreign  wars  for  continental  interests.  A  stand- 
ing army  and  a  septennial  parliament  were  soon  found  necessary 
for  the  security  of  a  German  family  whose  title  was  parlia- 
mentary not  hereditary,  or  what  we  now  call  legitimate.  These 
effects  of  the  Eevolution  are  permanent.  Having  once  taken 
root,  they  grow  and  produce,  and,  having  now  outlived  the 
memory  of  the  constitution,  are   not  to  be  removed  but  by  a 


APPENDIX.  511 

convulsion,  which  a  wise  man  would  not  risk  for  a  degraded, 
worthless  nation.  Eebellions  were  incidental,  and  are  not 
likely  to  recur,  because  there  is  no  pretender,  much  less  a  com- 
petitor, fit  to  be  trusted  ;  or  any  leading  party  to  support  a 
competition.  Every  other  abuse  that  can  disturb  or  distress 
the  country  belongs  to  the  continental  system  and  flow  from  the 
same  source.  Proceeding  as  they  have  done  in  debts  and 
taxes  to  an  insupportable  amount,  it  is  not  at  all  unlikely  that 
the  machine  may  stop  of  itself,  and  the  whole  system  stand 
still.  The  nation  then  may  possibly  recover  its  vigour  by  fall- 
ing on  its  native  earth,  or  it  must  end  in  an  apoplexy.  With 
the  same  materials,  there  can  be  no  renovation. 

Anne  Stuart  was  an  ordinary,  ignorant  woman,  false,  sill}', 
and  religious,  without  qualities  of  any  sort  to  make  a  respectable 
public  character,  or  to  maintain  the  appearance  of  it.  Though 
she  sat  at  the  helm,  she  was  nothing  but  a  passenger.  The  im- 
pulse given  to  the  Government  of  England  by  King  William 
carried  her  on  as  long  as  it  lasted.  When  that  failed,  she  moved 
in  another  direction,  without  judgement  or  a  will  of  her  own. 
She  changed  her  ministers  and  her  measures  by  the  advice  of 
the  reigning  chamber-maid,  whoever  it  might  be,  without 
knowing  why,  for,  when  she  happened  to  do  right,  she  was  not 
conscious  of  it. 

The  Whig  Ministers,  who  continued  the  war,  and  the  Tories, 
who  put  an  end  to  it,  were  all  alike,  or  with  very  few  ex- 
ceptions. The  object  of  both  was  to  possess  power,  and  to  turn 
it  to  profit,  and  to  their  own  account.  But,  in  1711,  the  Tories 
had  the  best  of  the  argument,  and  indeed  all  the  truth  and  right 
reason  of  the  question  on  their  side.  The  refusal  of  the  Whigs,  or 
rather  of  Marlborough  and  Eugene,  who  disposed  of  Heinsius  and 
Holland,  to  close  with  Lewis  the  Fourteenth  at  Gertruydenburgh, 
was  treacherous.  The  resolution  to  continue  the  war,  after  the 
death  of  the  Emperor  Joseph,  was  absurd  in  itself,  as  well  as  in- 
defensible on  the  principle  of  the  grand  alliance,  not  considering 
too  that  the  principal  burthen  of  the  war  was  left  on  ow 
shoulders  ;  for  even  the  contribution  of  the  Dutch,  though  heavy 
to  them,  was  far  short  of  what  they  were  bound  by  treaty  to 
pay.  As  for  the  Austrian  Emperors,  Joseph  and  Charles,  they 
gave  themselves  no  trouble  about  the  conquest  of  Spain,  and  in 
fact  contributed  little  or  nothing  to  that  war.  It  is  probable 
that  the  wisdom  of  King  William,  had  he  lived  so  long,  would 


512  APPENDIX. 

have  taken  the  tide  at  flood,  and  given  a  settlement  to  Europe 
for  as  long  a  period  as  can  be  provided  for  by  human  foresight, 
or  secured  by  contract  between  adverse  greedy  parties,  vulgarly 
called  kings.  Yet  who  can  say  how  far  even  that  wise  man 
might  have  been  tempted  or  encouraged  by  the  successes  of  the 
war  up  to  1710  inclusive,  to  have  departed  from  the  principles 
of  the  grand  alliance  formed  by  himself  in  1701,  or  to  have 
carried  his  views  far  beyond  what  that  principle  required  ?  At 
all  events,  whenever  a  peace,  safe  and  very  advantageous  to 
Holland  and  sufficiently  flattering  to  the  vanity  of  England, 
could  have  been  obtained,  I  believe  he  would  not  have  con- 
tinued the  war  to  feed  the  beggary  and  gratify  the  arrogance  of 
Austria,  the  sordid,  insatiable  heart  of  Marlborough,  or  the  per- 
sonal spite  of  Eugene  against  Lewis  the  Fourteenth. 

At  the  head  of  one  of  the  parties  in  England  was  Marlborough, 
exhibiting  the  true  and,  except  in  such  excess,  the  not  uncommon 
character  of  avarice  personified  ;  a  human  motive  however,  and 
a  key  to  his  conduct.  On  the  other  side  was  Harley,  in  whom, 
after  a  long  examination,  T  cannot  discover  the  semblance  or  a 
component  particle  of  an  upright,  honest,  much  less  of  an 
elevated  mind,  whether  as  a  public  or  a  private  person.  His 
meaning  or  intention  could  seldom  be  discovered,  or  guessed  at, 
by  anything  he  said  or  did  ;  because,  though  without  rapacity 
or  love  of  money,  he  was  mean,  false,  envious,  hollow,  trea- 
cherous, and  ungrateful  to  his  heart's  core.  He  trusted  no- 
body. He  envied  and  hated  Bolingbroke  for  his  superior 
abilities,  and  in  a  deadly  fear  of  being  supplanted  by  him.  He 
pretended  to  love  Dean  Swift ;  that  is,  he  liked  good  company, 
as  he  might  have  done  champagne  and  venison,  and  then  cared 
no  more  for  him  than  for  the  secretion  of  a  good  dish,  after  he 
had  swallowed  it.  If  the  evidence  of  his  baseness  to  Swift  were 
not  on  record,  the  fact  would  be  incredible,  that  the  warrant 
appointing  another  person  to  the  Deanery  of  St.  Patrick's,  was 
signed,  sealed,  and  on  the  point  of  being  dispatched  to  Ireland, 
when  Bolingbroke  interposed  manfully,  .and  forced  Harley  to 
recall  that  pitiful  appointment,  and  to  give  it  to  Swift. 

How  he  could  continue  to  be  heartily  attached  to  such  a  man, 
is  full  as  unaccountable  as  all  the  rest,  except  from  mere  vanity, 
which  shewed  itself  most  in  the  miserable  affectation  of  appear- 
ing familiar  with  what  are  called  great  persons.     Bolingbroke 


APPENDIX.  513 

has  been  loaded  with  a  character  of  profligacy,  much  more  than 
he  deserved,  but  chiefly  by  canting  priests  and  pious  prudes,  who 
seldom  think  of  repulsion  while  they  have  any  remains  of  attrac- 
tion. Bolingbroke  had  the  passions  and  failings  of  a  youno-  man, 
such  as  wine  and  women,  of  which  last,  I  suspect,  he  was  rather 
vain  than  guilty.  They  who  allow  themselves  to  indulge  in 
these  irreligious  enjoyments  are  at  least  bound  to  conceal  them, 
as  the  Eoman  Catholic  clergy  must  do.  Sooner  or  later,  how- 
ever, they  are  made  to  pay  the  full  price  of  such  follies.  But 
he  was  frank  and  open,  and  you  knew  what  he  meant.  I  do  not 
think  it  possible  that  he  should  have  constantly  spoken  as  he 
did  of  Harley,  and  especially  to  Swift,  if  he  had  not  been  con- 
vinced and  sure  of  what  he  said ;  or  that  Swift,  who  professed 
the  tenderest  attachment  to  Harley  till  his  death,  would  have 
endured  those  calumnies  from  Bolingbroke,  knowing  them  to  be 
so,  and  lived  with  him,  as  he  did,  in  strict  friendship  ever  after. 

On  this  subject  there  must  have  been  a  secret  understanding 
between  them.  The  folly  and  vanity  of  his  later  age  was 
writing  a  dull,  tiresome  medley  of  religion  and  metaphysics,  to 
say  nothing  of  the  misery  of  the  subject,  which  nobody  who 
understands  English  can  read  without  weariness  and  inattention. 
In  his  public  conduct  I  see  no  contradiction.  When  his  life 
was  threatened  in  England  he  fled  to  save  it;  he  resorted  to  the 
Pretender  because  he  had  no  choice  ;  and  when  he  found  what 
a  true  son  of  a  priest-ridden  idiot  he  had  to  deal  with,  he  left 
him  to  his  folly  and  his  fate.  I  never  heard  that  Sir  William 
•Windham  or  any  of  the  Tories  were  dissatisfied  with  him  on 
their  account,  or  that  he  had  not  very  sufficiently  justified  this 
part  of  his  proceedings  to  his  friends,  of  whom  he  had  many  to 
the  last.  Whereas  Harley  had  not  one,  for  several  years  before 
he  died,  except  the  simple,  vain  man  whom  he  cheated,  de- 
ceived and  betrayed  in  every  part  and  moment  of  his  connection 
with  him,  from  early  acquaintance  to  apparent  intimacy,  with 
professions  of  friendship  always  to  serve  some  mean,  indi- 
rect purpose  of  his  own.  The  fact  is,  he  liked  the  company  of 
Swift,  and  wished  to  keep  him  in  his  service.  But  if  once  he 
made  him  independent,  as  he  might  have  easily  done,  he  thought 
he  should  lose  both.  This  is  a  common  practice  among 
ministers.  Is  it  a.  thing  credible  that  the  Lord  High  Treasurer 
and  Prime  Minister  of  England  could  not  have  made  Swift 

VOL.  II.  L  L 


514  APPENDIX. 

Bishop  of  Dromore  instead  of  Sterne  ?  If  the  queen,  as  he 
would  fain  have  had  it  understood,  had  positively  refused  him,  he 
ought  to  have  immediately  resigned  his  staff,  as  he  was  forced 
to  do  soon  after.  Then,  indeed,  the  first  thing  he  does  is  to 
write  a  whining,  canting  letter  to  Swift,  to  entreat  him  to  share 
in  his  solitude  and  to  accompany  his  retreat ! 

That  the  miserable  Jacobites  should  have  held  Bolingbroke  in 
abhorrence  is  not  at  all  unnatural  in  such  ignorant,  bigoted,  and, 
of  course,  such  passionate  people.     But  to  brand  him  first  for  a 
treacherous  villain,  and  then  to  revile  him  for  not  acting  the 
part  of  a  Stoic,  is  an  impudent,  senseless  contradiction,  which 
mere  folly  will  not  account  for.      And  what  would  he  have 
gained  by  continuing  to  adhere  to  the  Pretender,  after  being 
most  formally  dismissed  from  his  pitiful  service,  but  to  pass  for 
a  dupe  and  a  madman,  like  Ormond  and  Wharton?     Of  the 
Tory  party,  as  it  stood  before  the  death  of  Queen  Anne,  the  only 
person  left  worth  naming,  and  he  only  for  his  name,  is  the  Duke 
of  Ormond,  of  whom  the  best  that  can  be  said  is  that  nature 
placed  him  very  low  in  the  class  of  mediocrity,  and  that  no  ele- 
vation of  fortune  could  have  raised  him  above  it.    To  have  been 
cajoled  by  the  Queen's  ministers  to  supplant  Marlborough,  to 
accept  the  command  of  a  victorious  army,  not  with  a  hope  of 
emulating  their  successes,  but  to  sound  and  to  lead  their  retreat, 
which  a  common  adjutant  might  have  done  just  as  well  as  a 
duke  and  a  peer,  with  an  immense  fortune  and  some  military 
reputation  ; — these  are  the  facts  which,  in  'my  mind,  place  him 
below  the  common  level  of  human  imbecility.     Harley  would 
not  have  hazarded  a  change  of  the  ministry,  much  less  in  the 
command  of  the  army,  if  he  had  not  had  such  a  person  exactly, 
or  such  a  name,  as  Ormond,  ready  to  supply  the  place  of  the 
Duke  of  Marlborough.      From  Queen  Anne's  letters  to  her 
sister  in   1688,  before  the  birth  of  the  pretended  Prince  of 
Wales,  it  is  evident  that  she  then  thought  that  the  Italian 
queen's  pregnancy  was  an  imposture,  and  that  this  was  a  general 
suspicion.  Why  she  should  have  altered  her  opinion  afterwards, 
or  whether,  in  fact,  she  wished  to  favour  the  Pretender's  succes- 
sion, as  believing  him  to  be  her  brother,  whom  she  had  barred 
of  his  right,  does  not  appear.     The  latter  part  of  her  life  was 
too  much  afflicted  with  sickness,  or  engrossed  with  care  and 
vexation,  nearer  home  and  to  her  person,  to  suffer  her  to  think 
of  such  distant  impracticable  projects.     It  is  curious,  but  not 


e 


APPENDIX.  515 

very  gratifying  to  any  sense  of  truth  and  honesty,  to  see  what  a 
fine  character  has  been  made  for  this  false,  foolish  woman,  even 
by  Swift,  who   knew  her,  as  well  as  by  others.     Some  o'f  her 
Tory  ministers  might  possibly  have  looked  that  way  a  littL 
before  her  death,  because  they  knew  they  were  proscribed.     I 
do  not  believe  it ;  but  if  they  did  so,  it  was  without  a  considered 
plan  or  preparation,  or  steady  intention,  and  much  too  late  to 
begin  so  difficult  and  hazardous  an  enterprise.     Their  conduct 
in  exile  proves  nothing,  but  that  then  their  situation  was  despe- 
rate.   The  pretended  impeachment  of  Lord  Oxford,  after  a  Ion  or 
confinement  in  the  Tower,  if  not  a  mere  farce,  was  suffered  to 
lapse  and  expire  because  he  was  possessed  of  letters  from  the 
Duke  of  JMarlborough  to  James  the  Second,  probably  containino' 
a  promise  to  favour  if  not  secure  the  succession  of  his  son ;  and 
these  Lord  Oxford  threatened  to  produce  if  they  proceeded  to 
his  trial.     The  fact  to  be  admired,  and  still  to  be  rationally 
accounted  for,  is  that,  with  the  recent  example  of  James  the 
Second,  and  the  experience  of  his  reign,  there  should  be,  as  there 
certainly  was,  a  considerable  party  in  the  kingdom  for  placing 
a  Eoman  Catholic  on  the  throne;  and   such  a  being,  too,  as 
they  knew  or  might  have  known  him  to  be.     See  how  he  was 
painted  by  Bolingbroke  in  his  letter  to  Sir  William  Windham. 
If  the  question  had  been  open,  or  if  there  had  been  an  option 
but  between  the  House  of  Hanover  and  the  Pretender,  a  o-ood 
Englishman  might  have  reasonably  objected  to  the  introduction 
of  a  foreign  family.     But  that  point  was  decided;  and  that 
decision  could  no  way  be  reversed  but  by  a  civil  war,  a  success- 
ful general,  and  a  new  dynasty.     The  union  with  Scotland  was 
at  all  times  a  just  and  desirable  object.     With  separate  govern- 
ments, and  possibly  two  kings  again  in  the  same  island,  one  of 
whom  must  always  look  to  France  for  assistance,  there  could  be 
no  sincere  and  lasting  peace  between  them,  or  safety  for  either. 
In  1640  the  Scotch  Commissioners  declared,  and  it  was  true, 
though  they  said  it,  '  That  the  soul  of  wisdom  taught  that  both 
nations  must  stand  or  fall  together.'     In  1706  the  Union  was  a 
measure  of  absolute  necessity,  to  prevent  a  separation  of  the 
two  component  parts,  and  to  preserve  the  peace  of  both.     To 
that  result  it  operated  slowly,  and  not  without  repeated  rebel- 
lions.   Other  advantages  proposed  by  the  Union  might  possibly 
have  been   obtained  without  it.      In  the  progress  of  events 
succession   is   confounded   with   effect.      The  wisdom   of  this 

I.  L  2 


516  APPENDIX. 

measure  is  confined  to  the  instance,  and  forms  no  precedent  for 
other  cases. 

It  was  not  very  unreasonable,  or  might  well  have  been 
expected,  that  George  the  First  should  principally  confide  in 
the  Whigs,  who  advised  him  but  ill  for  his  real  interest,  though 
with  obvious  sagacity  for  their  own.  Instead  of  acceding  to  the 
crown  as  a  king,  they  made  him  the  leader  of  a  party.  Instead 
of  conciliating,  as  he  might  have  done,  the  great  body  of  the 
Tories  by  amnesty  at  once,  and  gradually  by  favour,  he  was 
advised  to  consider  them  as  his  personal  enemies,  and  to  exas- 
perate them  by  useless  provocations.  One  of  the  first  acts  of 
this  Hanoverian  was  to  promise  to  restore  Gibraltar  to  the 
House  of  Bourbon,  by  which  some  Hanoverian  purpose  was  to 
be  answered;  for  he  thought  of  nothing  else.  In  himself, 
perhaps,  he  was  as  unexceptionable  as  a  foreigner  could  be,  but 
ignorant  of  everything  that  an  English  king  ought  to  know,  and 
without  the  feelings  of  an  Englishman,  or  attachment  to  any- 
thing in  the  country  but  his  own  establishment  in  it,  and  to  the 
money  he  could  carry  out  of  it. 

Being  a  gallant  person,  and  attached  to  what  he  called  the 
fair  sex,  he  brought  over  with  him  two  ugly  friends,  to  serve 
Mm  as  mistresses,  and  making  part  of  his  royal  establishment. 
One  was  created  an  English  duchess,  the  other  a  countess ;  and 
they  sold  everything  that  they  could  lay  their  claws  on  at  court, 
particularly  honours.  Lord  Bolingbroke,  after  his  attainder 
was  reversed,  was  forced  to  pay  one  of  them  eleven  thousand 
guineas  for  the  restitution  of  his  family  estate.  All  the  policy 
the  king  understood  related  to  the  Continent ;  all  the  interests 
lie  regarded  were  those  of  Hanover,  and  to  aggrandise  that 
electorate  at  our  expense,  as  he  did  by  the  purchase  of  Bremen 
and  Verden,  paid  for  with  English  money,  and  by  many  other 
courses  or  devices  of  the  same  kind.  The  measures  of  his 
Government  were  uniformly  bent  in  that  direction.  The  tenure 
by  which  his  ministers  held  their  places  was  their  subserviency 
to  his  continental  system,  their  compliance  with  the  rapacity  of 
a  flight  of  German  mistresses,  favourites  behind  the  curtain, 
and  footmen  of  the  back  stairs,  and  counteracting  the  projects 
of  the  Jacobites,  and  the  claims  of  the  Pretender,  which  they 
did  not  wish  because  it  was  not  their  interest  to  extinguish. 

The  antipathy  of  George  the  First  to  his  heir  apparent  of  itself 
forms  no  presumption  that  he  was  not  his  son,  though  it  appears 


APPENDIX.  517 

that  he  suspected  it.  George  the  Second  was  attached  to  the  wife 
of  Greorge  the  First,  because  she  was  his  mother,  because  he  de- 
tested her  husband,  to  whom  he  was  very  unwilling  to  be  bound 
by  any  ties  of  filial  duty.  He  knew  she  had  been  false  to  his 
bed  with  Count  Coninsmark,  who  was  murdered  by  the  Elector 
of  Hanover,  father  of  Greorge  the  First,  and  the  lady  kept  in  a 
rigorous  confinement  by  her  father-in-law  and  her  husband 
until  the  accession  of  her  son  George  the  Second  to  the  throne  of 
Great  Britain  !  This  legitimate  family  affection  is  hereditary 
in  the  splendid  house  of  Brunswick  and  that  of  Hohenzollern, 
of  whose  origin  we  know  nothing  but  its  existence  200  years  ago. 
Father  and  son  have  hated  one  another  cordially  as  if  it  were 
by  entail,  and  never  without  reason.  There  is  no  instance  to 
the  contrary  since  their  accession.  I  cannot  believe  that  even 
that  ignorant,  brutal  savage,  Frederick  "William  of  Prussia,  had 
not  some  secret  reason,  more  than  we  know  of,  for  his  rancorous 
and  early  antipathy  to  his  eldest  son.  George  the  Second  and  his 
wife  were  for  some  time  at  auction,  and  open  to  either  party. 
Eobert  Walpole,  whom  he  hated,  bid  most  for  him  and  bought 
him.  The  Tories,  after  a  long  opposition,  succeeded  in  re- 
moving Walpole,  and  then  they  did  nothing  for  the  country. 
They  seemed  to  have  no  object  but  to  get  possession,  and  no 
plan  when  they  had  obtained  it.  The  repeal  of  the  Triennial 
Act,  the  public  debt,  the  permanent  establishment  of  a  standing 
army,  too  numerous  now  to  be  contracted  or  controlled,  and,  if 
it  were  once  commanded  by  an  active  enterprising  king,  the 
certainty  of  a  military  government,  are  due  to  the  House  of 
Hanover.  A  disputed  title  made  many  precautions  necessary 
for  the  king's  personal  security,  or  to  insure  the  descent  of  the 
crown  in  a  foreign  family,  which  must  be  ruinous  to  the  con- 
stitution, and  sooner  or  later  to  private  property,  which  most 
men  wish  to  preserve  when  they  have  lost  or  may  be  indifferent 
about  everything  else.  Unwise  and  partial  counsels  created 
real  dangers,  which  it  is  said  could  only  be  averted  by  sacri- 
ficing or  suspending  the  great  securities  of  the  commonwealth. 
Admitting  that,  in  the  actual  situation  of  parties  and  temper  of 
the  country,  the  Parliament,  which  sat  in  1716,  could  not  have 
been  dissolved  without  hazard  to  the  public  peace,  and  to  the 
safety  of  the  Government,  it  is  no  justification  of  the  Septennial 
Act,  contrary  to  the  Whig  principle  set  up  at  the  Eevolution. 
The  remedy  went  beyond  the  exigence.     The  Parliament  then 


618  APPENDIX. 

sitting,  might,  as  a  measure  of  necessity,  to  which  rights  as  well 
as  forms  must  yield  while  it  lasts,  have  continued  for  a  year  or 
two  longer,  until  the  minds  of  the  generality  were  composed, 
or  until  the  danger  had  subsided,  as  it  would  have  done  with  a 
prudent  and  moderate  administration ;  and  then  the  Act  sus- 
pending the  Triennial  Act  might  have  been  repealed.  For  these 
violations,  however,  of  the  rights  of  the  nation,  there  was  some 
pretence  of  necessity,  or  plea  of  public  danger,  and  they  were 
not  accomplished  without  a  vigorous  opposition.  In  oia-  time, 
with  a  passive  House  of  Lords,  and  an  instrumental  House  of 
Commons,  stronger  acts,  or  done  upon  weaker  pretences,  have 
produced  no.  discontent,  and  excited  no  surprise — were  almost 
recommended  by  their  novelty  at  first,  and  continued  as  if  they 
were  of  course.  In  these  Acts,  the  direct  power  of  the  Crown  is 
seldom  seen.  Why  should  the  executive  minister  risk  anything, 
when  Parliament  is  ready  to  do  everything  for  him  ?  Admi- 
nistration, which  ought  to  be  responsible,  is  sheltered  by  the 
legislature,  and  the  legislature  by  a  doctrine  which  at  once 
annihilates  the  obligations  of  a  trust  and  the  uses  of  a  control 
(except  against  one  another),  that  King,  Lords,  and  Commons, 
united,  are  supreme  and  unaccountable,  and  may  do  what  they 
will.  On  this  principle,  the  nominal  limitations  of  the  monarchy 
and  the  title  of  a  popular  authority  in  the  House  of  Commons 
may  be  retained;  but  what  is  such  a  constitution  in  effect,  or 
what  must  it  end  in  but  the  absolute  power  of  a  single  person, 
or,  when  the  Crown  devolves  to  idiots,  infants,  or  maniacs,  in  an 
oligarchy  of  favourites,  panders,  priests,  and  prostitutes,  repre- 
sented by  a  pageant  and  mockery  called  a  king  ? 

What  security  the  nation  has  in  fact  derived  from  the 
boasted  policy  of  continental  connections,  is  a  question  never  to 
be  answered  but  by  a  gratuitous  assertion,  in  its  nature  incapa- 
ble of  proof,  that,  without  such  connections,  we  should  have 
been  conquered  long  ago  and  enslaved  by  France ;  and  there 
the  proposition  is  left  by  its  advocates,  as  if  it  were  self-evident 
that  a  possible  event,  which  has  not  happened,  must  have  been 
prevented.  This  is  mere  party  language  addressed  to  Hanover. 
All  the  rational  presumptions  are  on  the  other  side.  Specula- 
tions and  possibilities,  on  which  a  specious  politician  may  refine 
and  argue  for  his  own  purposes,  are  not  to  be  stated,  much  less 
to  be  regarded  against  the  evidence  of  facts  and  the  conviction 


APPENDIX.  519 

of  experience.  England,  so  far  from  being  protected  from  a 
foreign  yoke  by  continental  alliances,  has  never  been  assisted  by 
any  power  on  the  Continent,  even  in  the  dangers  which  were 
created  by  those  connections.  Since  the  Norman  invasion,  no 
attempt  has  been  made  to  conquer  England  but  by  Philip  the 
Second,  defeated  at  sea  by  the  English  force  alone,  with  an 
inferior  navy.  Of  this  event  it  is  said  by  Grotius,  ^  Gra- 
jorum,  Eomanorumque  glorise,  qui  res  oiim  suas  navales  per 
acies  asseruerunt,  non  dubie  tunc  Anglorum  et  Fortuna  et 
virtus  respondit.' 

The  opinion  of  the  greatest  men  of  those  days  was  that  '  when 
poor  England  stood  alone,  and  had  not  the  access  of  another 
kingdom,  and  yet  had  more  and  as  potent  enemies  as  it  now 
hath,  yet  the  King  of  England  prevailed.'  But  then  he  must 
be  really  an  English  king,  ready  to  fight  personally  for  his 
country,  confiding  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  as  Elizabeth  did, 
because  she  deserved  them,  and  in  the  true  and  natural  defences 
of  the  country,  the  sea,  and  the  navy.  The  wisest  man  of  his 
time,  or  perhaps  of  any  other.  Sir  Walter  Kaleigh,  says : 
'  Making  the  question  general  and  positive,  whether  England, 
without  help  of  her  fleet,  be  able  to  debar  an  enemy  from 
landing,  I  hold  that  it  is  unable  so  to  do,'  with  such  a  detail  of 
reasons  for  his  opinion  as  it  deeply  imports  every  man  in  these 
two  islands  to  study  and  understand. 

The  English,  though  brave  enough  in  battle,  are  not  pro- 
perly a  'military  nation,  nor  can  they  be  made  so  without 
mamtaining  such  a  regular  mercenary  army  as  would  soon  in- 
gross  all  the  civil  powers  of  the  country,  in  effect  if  not  in 
form,  under  the  absolute  command  of  one  general  officer  and 
his  companions  in  arms.  A  standing  army  of  100,000  men 
kept  up  in  Great  Britain,  of  necessity  quartered  in  barracks 
and  separated  from  civil  society,  will  gradually,  nay  rapidly, 
give  a  turn  and  a  fashion  to  the  youth  of  the  country,  and  make 
it  their  vanity  to  belong  to  that  profession  ;  and  if  only  a  fourth 
of  such  an  army  be  composed  of  foreigners  at  first,  I  need  not 
argue  a  question,  which  in  fact  will  then  be  determined,  and 
not  wait  long  for  a  formal  decision.  The  French  are,  and  have 
been  for  a  long  time,  a  military  nation,  in  some  degree  from 
their  position,  or  from  not  prevailing  at  sea,  since  it  is  hardly 
possible  to  predominate  on  both  elements  at  once ;  but  much 


620  APPENDIX. 

more  because  they  have  a  disposition  or  turn  that  way,  and  are 
vain  of  the  name  and  occupation  of  soldiers.  Le  premier  des 
rois  fut  un  soldat  heureux.  Now  look  at  the  result,  and 
see  what  they  have  gained  by  it.  The  civil  and  religious 
wars  under  Henry  the  Third  and  Fourth  laid  waste  the 
kingdom,  and  diverted  the  nobility  and  the  people  too  more 
or  less  into  military  habits,  and  to  be  the  instruments  of 
ambition.  Their  territory,  within  its  natural  boundaries, 
was  much  more  than  sufficient  for  defence.  But  a  military, 
distinct  from  a  national  power,  Tnust  be  employed ;  its  essence 
is  in  action.  Ambition  is  not  to  be  satisfied  without  conquest, 
and  that  spirit  has  more  than  once  exposed  France,  im- 
pregnable by  nature,  to  the  miseries  of  long  wars,  to  repeated 
invasion,  and  to  events  in  battle  which  have  threatened  the 
destruction  of  the  country,  and  at  last  the  dissolution  of  the 
monarchy. 

James  the  First,  in  seeking  for  a  royal  alliance  for  his  son,  was 
actuated  by  mere  vanity  or  plain  folly.  Some  of  his  prede- 
cessors had  married  foreign  ladies  of  their  own  rank,  but  it  was 
always  to  serve  the  purposes  of  personal  interest,  policy,  or  am- 
bition. Charles  the  First  did  not  often  interfere  in  the  wars  or 
politics  of  the  Continent.  He  had  other  views  and  occupations 
at  home.  The  enemies  of  his  country,  or  of  mankind,  had 
nothing  to  fear  from  him.  Whenever  he  meddled  with  foreign 
affairs,  it  always  ended  in  disgrace  and  shame.  But  perhaps 
he  gained  by  his  continental  connections  in  some  other  sense. 
Not  one  of  his  imperial  or  royal  cousins  interposed  seriously 
even  to  save  his  life ;  as  if  they  expected  to  be  his  heirs.  The 
greatest  princes  of  that  age  were  the  first  to  acknowledge  and 
court  the  Parliament,  and  soon  after  to  prostrate  themselves  at 
the  foot  of  Cromwell.  And  yet  such  a  man  as  Edmund  Burke 
could  pretend  to  idolise  the  divine  right  of  kings  and  queens, 
and  lords  and  bishops,  and  all  the  royal  families  in  the 
world,  when  in  fact,  and  I  know  it,  he  thought  of  them  just 
as  I  do. 

For  the  truth  of  this  assertion,  external  evidence  is  not 
wanted.  Gritted  like  his,  no  human  mind  is  made  to  think 
otherwise.  King  William's  wisdom  was  continental  and  nothing 
else.  His  heart,  if  he  had  any,  was  in  Holland.  We  have  it 
under  his  hand  in  a  letter  to  Heinsius  (November  23,  1700), 


APPENDIX.  521 

'  that  it  seemed  to  him  to  be  a  punishment  from  Heaven,  that 
people  here  were  so  little  sensible  to  what  passed  without  the 
island;  though  we  ought  to  have  the  same  interests  and 
anxieties  as  those  upon  the  Continent.'  ^ 

Such  passages  in  the  life  and  flaws  in  the  character  of  emi- 
nent men  are  indeed  the  scourge  of  a  generous  historian,  who 
wishes  to  find,  and  would  immortalise  if  he  could  find  it  a 
perfect  example,  now  and  then,  of  wisdom  and  virtue  among 
men,  with  a  just  acknowledgment  of  the  moral  merit  increasing 
with  the  rank.  This  vile  deliberate  trash,  written  with  reflec- 
tion by  so  great  a  person,  makes  it  difficult  to  confide  in  human 
sincerity. 

With  that  instance  before  us,  and  the  marvellous  anecdote, 
asserted  if  not  invented  by  Dalrymple,  that  the  phlegmatic 
William  shed  tears  because  he  could  not  reconcile  Whigs  and 
Tories,  who  can  be  quite  sure  that  Epaminondas  or  Cato  were  in 
earnest,  or  that  even  Alfred  the  First,  the  greatest  and  apparently 
the  best  among  the  leaders  and  benefactors  of  mankind,  might 
not,  in  some  unguarded  moment  of  debility  or  temptation,  have 
yielded  his  understanding  to  be  a  dupe  or  his  heart  to  be  an 
impostor  ?  Til  not  believe  it.  Common  heroes  should  be  ele- 
vated on  high  pillars  or  viewed  at  a  distance  where  they  cannot 
be  seen  distinctly.  A  nearer  view  shows  you  what  they  are 
made  of. 

A  Dutch  king  made  England  subservient  to  a  foreign  policy, 
and  that  policy,  pursued  by  his  successors,  made  us  principals 
in  a  continental  war,  in  which  an  English  patriot  would  have 
taken  no  other  part,  supposing  the  war  to  have  been  ever  so 
just  or  necessary,  than  that  which  nature  and  reason  have 
allotted  to  an  island,  that  is,  by  naval  operations  connected  if 
you  will  and  coinciding  with  those  of  our  allies  on  the  Conti- 
nent, and  perhaps  in  some  cases  by  reasonable  and  moderate 
subsidies,  not  proffered  and  lavished  as  they  have  been,  but 
distributed  with  economy  and  applied  with  judgment.  He  who 
lends  gratuitously,  or  who  gives  without  solicitation  or  measure, 
can  make  no  terms  ;  and,  if  obligation  and  gratitude  could  be 
supposed  to  subsist  between  princes  or  nations,  the  party  that 
presses  its  services  on  the  other,  renounces  all  claim  to  a  return, 

1  State  Papei-s,  ii.  297. 


522  APPENDIX. 

and  must  submit  to  be  told  that  they  had  no  object,  but 
their  own  interest.  In  yielding  thus  far,  I  recede  from  my 
judgment,  and  submit  with  great  reluctance  to  the  inveterate 
prejudice  of  others,  who  are  led  and  deceived  by  great  impos- 
tors. On  this  subject,  all  right  reason  in  England  was  over- 
whelmed and  extinguished  by  the  victories  of  the  Duke  of 
Marlborough. 

George  the  First,  as  far  as  his  understanding  went,  was 
a  mere  German  at  the  best,  with  Hanoverian  affections  and 
no  other.  He  and  his  son  were  greedy  of  money,  like 
those  who  are  unused  to  it,  and  both  of  them  very  sincerely 
thought  nothing  valuable  but  the  first  ground  on  which 
they  grew,  or  even  beautiful  but  their  own  sandy  electorate. 
They  never  acted,  or  at  least  while  a  pretender  Jived,  as  if 
they  were  assured  of  a  certain  and  permanent  settlement  in 
England.  It  is  barely  possible  nevertheless  that  an  honest 
Englishman  may  be  persuaded  to  think,  what  many  others  have 
been  paid  for  asserting,  that  some  material  benefits  have  been 
gained  by  our  alliances  and  wars  on  the  Continent  in  the 
eighteenth  century.  Be  it  so.  But,  before  he  determines  that 
such  measures  were  founded  on  true  English  principles,  and  that 
such  policy  ought  still  to  be  pursued,  let  the  service  be  com- 
pared with  the  price,  and  the  object  with  the  means.  Advan- 
tages change  their  nature,  if  they  are  not  to  be  obtained  but  by 
destructive  efforts  or  ruinous  expenses,  which,  in  their  natural 
process  and  operation,  alter  the  character  as  well  as  the  state  of 
the  country.  A  poor  and  an  impoverished  people  are  very 
diiferent  persons. 

In  the  account  in  question,  the  cost  and  the  charges  on  one 
side  are  certain ;  the  benefit,  on  the  other,  is  speculative,  and 
may  very  well  be  disputed.  Experience  is  against  it,  and  the 
next  experiment  may  be  fatal.  In  the  war  of  1793  every  one 
of  our  allies  deserted  us,  and  many  took  part  with  the  common 
enemy.  That  war  of  injustice  produced  that  peace  of  weakness 
or  necessity  at  Amiens,  and  that  peace  another  war,  which  the 
king  was  determined  to  have,  without  the  shadow  of  a  rational 
pretence,  the  events  of  which  have  already  been  fatal  to  the 
Continent.  Yet,  early  in  1793,  the  combination  against 
France  was  in  all  appearance  strong  enough  to  carry  its  pur- 
pose.    The  essential  defect  and  final  ruin  of  coalitions  is  that, 


APPENDIX.  623 

without  some  preponderating  authority  over  all,  they  cannot 
hold  together.' 

'  Where  every  man's  help  is  necessary  to  the  war,  there  may 
any  one  make  his  own  peace  ;  but  no  one  can  stand  out  alone 
when  all  the  rest  are  weary.'  How  is  it  possible  that  many  in- 
dependent Powers  should  continue  to  act  together  for  a  common 
object  or  a  general  interest,  without  an  eminent  person  at  the 
head  of  it,  a  master  mind  to  control  their  factions,  and  power  to 
unite  and  direct  their  efforts  ?  Europe  at  this  day  does  not 
furnish  such  a  chief;  nor,  if  he  appeared,  would  he  be  acknow- 
ledged. The  powerful  abilities  by  which  nations  are  exalted  or 
destroyed,  are  not  known  to  exist  anywhere  but  in  France.  If 
such  coalitions  prevail  in  the  first  instance,  the  compoaent 
parties  are  sure  to  abandon  the  common  cause  or  pretended 
principle  of  the  war,  in  order  to  carve  for  themselves.  If  they 
are  unsuccessful,  they  soon  separate  and  endeavour  to  provide 
for  their  own  security  by  deserting  their  allies,  by  turning 
against  one  another,  and  joining  the  enemy.  Events  may  defeat 
predictions,  but  cannot  overset  principles. 

By  the  Stuarts,  especially  by  the  first  of  them,  England  was 
made  a  prey  to  English  minions  and  to  Scotch  favourites,  rather 
than  to  Scotland,  a  dupe  to  Spain,  and  by  the  two  last  of  the 
family  invariably  sold  to  France.  In  the  two  succeeding  reigns 
we  were  devoted  to  Holland  and  the  Continent,  and  sacrificed 
by  Greorge  the  First  and  Second  to  Hanoverian  interests  and 
German  politics.  The  comparison  of  England  to  '  Prometheus 
chained  to  that  rock  Germany,  while  that  vulture  Hanover  de- 
voured her  vitals,'  sunk  into  every  English  heart. 

George  the  Second  was  a  Hanoverian  and  a  miser,  but  I  be- 
lieve he  had  some  manly  qualities  in  his  composition.  At  least 
he  had  sense  enough  to  despise  his  son  Frederic,  with  all  possible 
attachment  to  William  the  fat  Duke  of  Cumberland,  who,  after 
the  battle  of  Culloden  in  1745,  was  the  favourite  of  all  the  Whig 
interest  of  England.  Frederic,  however,  passed  for  a  greater 
fool  than  he  was ;  for  now  we  kuow  that  he  had  wit  enough  to 
collect  a  great  party  and  to  outwit  Bubb  Doddington,  who  kissed 
his  hand  for  a  high  office  to  be  delivered  to  him  at  the  king's 
death.     But,  unluckily  for  this  gentleman  and  his  patron,  there 

'  Raleigh,  ii.  25;  MacHavel.  Bis.,  iii.  55. 


524  APPENDIX. 

was  a  possible  case  not  included  in  their  calculation.  The  son 
died  before  the  father,  and  Mr.  Bubb  Doddington  was  left  to  be 
laughed  at  and  to  make  his  peace  with  the  old  king,  as  he 
endeavoured  to  do  by  the  most  sordid  submissions.  If  you  wish 
to  know  what  an  English  courtier  is  made  of,  read  his  diary. 
With  many  personal  and  accidental  advantages,  from  nature  and 
fortune,  he  Tnust  have  a  place,  or  a  title,  and  above  all  things  be 
well  at  court.  So  the  present  king  made  a  lord  of  him  just 
before  his  funeral,  and  he  was  buried  with  a  coronet  on  his 
coffin. 

George  the  Third  was  little  better  than  an  idiot  from  his 
birth,  and  certainly  mad  long  before  it  was  generally  known, 
with  some  of  the  cunning  and  all  the  malignity  that  usually 
accompany  the  derangement  of  a  shallow  mind.  I  never  did 
hear  of  his  having  a  valuable  quality  (though  he  appeared  to 
partake  of  the  odious,  mawkish  good  humour  of  a  fool),  much 
less  of  any  word  or  deed  of  his  that  indicates  generosity  or 
feeling.  His  ruling  passions  were  avarice  and  Hanover — for 
money  not  to  be  spent,  and  for  a  country  he  was  determined 
never  to  see.  He  hoarded  both  against  a  rainy  day.  He  hated 
the  Whigs  radically,  and  the  more  because  they  had  seated  his 
family  on  the  throne  and  might  remove  it ;  Lord  Rockingham 
because  he  knew  him  ;  and  afterwards  Fox  because  he  did  not 
know  him.  This  gracious  king  began  his  reign  with  asserting 
'  that  he  gloried  in  the  name  of  Briton.'  The  speech  was  made 
for  him  by  John  Stewart,  Earl  of  Bute.  To  mention  the  birth- 
place of  an  idiot,  as  a  title  to  merit,  and  with  an  air  of  exulta- 
tion, could  serve  only  for  an  invidious  comparison  of  his  own 
indigenous  affection  for  Britain  with  the  exotic  predilections  of 
his  two  immediate  predecessors.  The  family  have  taken  root 
in  our  soil,  without  imbibing  anything  but  its  juices.  The 
plant  and  the  produce  are  as  radically  Grerman  as  ever ;  and,  if 
it  were  otherwise  liable  to  fail,  the  purity  of  the  race  is  sure  to 
be  preserved  by  fresh  importations  from  Grermany.  While  this 
family  continues  in  possession,  there  can  be  no  Englishman  on 
the  throne. 

To  gratify  the  populace,  whom  he  soon  lost  by  affecting  to 
adopt  Scotland,  the  present  king  was  advised  or  pretended  to 
renounce  Hanover,  which  he  was  determined  to  keep  as  much 
as  either  of  his  predecessors.  The  same  passion  or  policy  pre- 
dominates in  this  Prince  of  Wales.   They  all  consider  it  as  their 


APPENDIX.  525 

private  peculiar  estate,  to  wbich  some  day  or  other  they  may 
possibly  be  forced  to  return,  but  never  if  they  can  help  it. 

The  name  of  Englishman  being  discarded  by  George  the 
Third,  it  was  not  very  unnatural  for  the  populace  of  Scotland  to 
believe  that  the  principles  of  the  House  of  Stuart  might  be 
revived  in  his  government.  But  why  they  should  like  him  the 
better  on  that  account  cannot  be  so  easily  understood.  For,  as 
to  that  royal  family,  or  any  descendant  from  it,  they  were  the 
first  whom  the  people  of  Scotland  ought  to  have  extirpated  if 
they  had  had  a  just  sense  of  their  own  wrongs,  or  a  ray  of  right 
reason  in  their  heads.  For  never  was  a  Christian  country  so 
tyrannically  and  cruelly  governed  as  Scotland  was  by  the 
Stuarts ;  certainly  not  by  Cromwell  nor  even  by  our  barbarous 
English  kings,  who  in  fact  were  nothing  better  than  Normans 
whenever  they  had  Scotland  in  their  power.  In  an  Englishman, 
fed  and  fattened  in  a  valley,  an  attachment  to  royalty  is  a  mere 
gregarious  stupidity.  In  a  Highlander,  who  has  nothing  but 
freedom  to  make  him  endure  existence,  it  is  downright  frenzy. 

Such  was  the  outset  of  the  present  reign.  The  progress  of  it 
hitherto  has  corresponded  with  the  beginning,  and  ensures  the 
termination,  in  public  ruin  first,  probably  commencing  but  not 
ending  with  bankruptcy,  and  then  perhaps  a  doubtful  contest 
for  another  revolution,  not  likely  to  be  attempted  and  still  less 
to  succeed.  That  issue  cannot  be  tried  in  any  country,  unless 
some  public  virtue  be  left  in  it,  as  there  was  generally  in 
France  in  1788,  a  little  in  the  capital,  and  none  at  all  at 
Versailles;  or  unless  some  ardent  spirit  should  be  revived  or 
inflamed,  when  the  minds  of  the  people  are  as  desperate  as 
their  situation.  But  despair  is  an  active,  vigorous  principle, 
and  cannot  be  the  resource  of  a  careless,  desponding,  degraded 
population.  In  a  nation  universally  corrupted  and  rotten  to 
the  heart  (I  speak  collectively,  and  only  of  England),  there  can 
be  no  great  men  for  national  purposes.  If  any  such  were  dis- 
covered, they  would  soon  be  hunted  down. 

Under  the  Stuarts  there  was  a  spirit  of  resistance  which 
would  have  died  of  itself,  if  the  last  of  them  had  not  been  a 
fool  and  a  bigot.  Under  William  and  Queen  Anne,  there  was 
national  honour.  Greorge  the  First  and  Second  tormented  us 
with  German  politics,  sold  everything,  and  robbed  us  of  all  the 
money  they  could  get.  Still  there  were  laws  and  principles,  an 
English  constitution,  and  an  English  heart  to  defend  it.     On 


526  APPENDIX. 

the  25th  day  of  October,  1760,  the  crown  devolved  to  a  true 
Briton,  who  has  nearly  worn  it  out,  and  in  all  appearance  will 
leave  nothing  to  the  succession  but  a  disposition  like  his  own 
to  finish  the  work,  if  it  should  not  be  completed  at  his  death, 
which  may  still  be  far  off.  In  a  little  more  than  nine  years 
from  the  accession  of  the  best  of  princes,  a  travelling  name 
promiscuously  given  to  kings  of  all  sorts  until  they  come  to  the 
end  of  their  journey  [and  what  are  the  others  if  George  the 
Third  be  the  best  of  them  ?],  it  appeared  necessary  to  forty  peers 
of  England'  to  sign  and  record  a  solemn  declaration  in  Parliament 
denouncing  '  a  plan,  which  they  had  seen  for  a  long  time  sys- 
tematically carried  on  for  lowering  all  the  constitutional  powers 
of  the  kingdom,  rendering  the  House  of  Commons  odious,  and 
the  House  of  Peers  contemptible.' 

A  life  protracted  in  affliction,  coercion,  insanity  and  correction, 
with  such  Si.  wife  and  such  a  progeny,  is  all  the  reward  he  derives 
from  his  success  in  plotting  and  effecting  the  ruin  of  this 
country.  From  these  personal  tribulations  a  seasonable  fever 
might  have  saved  him  long  ago.  I  believe  that  he  was  reserved 
for  an  example  of  retribution  on  earth  according  to  his  works. 

This  is  a  dead  language  now,  and  as  little  understood  in 
England  as  that  of  the  Druids  or  Caractacus  would  be,  if  here- 
after an  attempt  should  be  made  to  revive  it,  by  the  antiqua- 
rians of  a  future  age,  from  samples  preserved  in  the  cabinets 
of  the  curious.  Such  a  language,  with  its  true  meaning,  will 
never  be  popular  again. 

Having  disposed  of  the  private  and  real  character  of  the 
principal  actors  at  the  head  of  the  two  parties  of  Whig  and 
Tory,  from  the  treaty  of  Eyswick,  and  shown  what  they  were 
made  of  behind  the  scenes,  when  they  were  not  fretting  and 
strutting  on  the  stage,  their  merits,  as  public  persons,  cannot 
be  better  illustrated  than  by  stating  fairly  and  honestly,  as  I 
think,  what  the  essential  spirit  of  the  two  parties  respectively 
was,  or  ought  to  have  been,  in  relation  to  the  government  of 
this  kingdom,  considered  as  an  island. 

The  Whigs  and  Tories  themselves  will  now  lose  very  little  in 

'  February  1770. 


APPENDIX.  627 

point  of  character,  by  openly  disclaiming  or  denying  their  pro- 
fessed political  principles,  which  in  fact  they  have  seldom 
adhered  to,  but  as  the  means  and  instruments  of  ambition,  or, 
in  one  way  or  other,  to  answer  some  interested  purposes  of 
their  own. 

The  Tory  principle,  corrected  and  promulgated  by  the  Bill 
of  Eights  and  by  the  Act  of  Settlement,  is  the  true  one  for  the 
general  government  of  the  island  of  Grreat  Britain  in  its  ordi- 
nary and  regular  courses.  The  hereditary  succession  to  the 
crown,  the  navy  for  security  to  prevent  invasion,  and  the 
militia  alone,  or  a  nation  armed,  to  repel  it ;  a  reduction  of 
useless  establishments,  and  an  end  put  to  the  extravagant  waste 
of  the  public  property,  so  that  the  expense  of  the  country  may 
be  contracted  far  within  its  income,  and  leave  a  powerful 
effective  fund  or  surplus  for  the  gradual  discharge  and  iinal 
annihilation  of  the  public  debt,  accompanied,  as  it  proceeds, 
with  a  proportionate  reduction  of  taxes.  A  sinking  fund,  pro- 
fessing to  buy  up  and  annihilate  annually  many  millions  of  the 
national  debt,  but  never  reducing  any  of  the  taxes  appropriated 
to  pay  the  interest  of  so  much  debt  supposed  to  be  discharged, 
is  a  mere  mockery  both  of  the  creditor  and  debtor,  but  ex- 
tremely convenient  to  a  ravenous  insatiable  government,  to 
which,  with  the  help  of  collusion  with  the  Bank,  it  has  furnished 
a  facility  of  swelling  the  total  debt  to  its  present  amount  in 
1818.  Finally,  to  shorten  the  duration  of  Parliaments,  and 
effective  measures  to  make  direct  and  positive  corruption,  in 
the  choice  of  a  House  of  Commons,  useless  or  impracticable. 
From  these  principal  sources  of  national  prosperity,  if  they 
could  be  recovered,  the  minor  streams  would  flow  of  themselves 
pure  and  undisturbed,  correcting  abuses  and  removing  obstacles 
as  they  met  them,  and  giving  protection  and  security  to  the 
remotest  objects  and  to  the  minutest  principles  of  a  government 
by  law,  in  which  nothing  is  left  to  will  and  pleasure  or  to  per- 
sonal discretion  that  can  be  withheld  from  it,  without  incurring 
any  serious  practical  inconvenience. 

If  such  a  system,  supposing  it  recoverable,  cannot  maintain 
itself  without  the  assistance  of  a  standing  army,  the  heart  of 
the  country  is  gone.  Eights  and  charters  are  of  no  avail  against 
bayonets.  The  horse  cannot  dismount  the  rider,  otherwise  than 
by  breaking  both  their  necks.  But  neither  will  these  excellent 
principles,  in  the  case  as  it  exists,  be  called  upon  sincerely,  or 


528  APPENDIX. 

permitted  to  operate  steadily  and  effectually  to  the  purpose 
they  profess,  without  the  guardian  power  of  another  principle 
held  over  the  rest,  which  I  call  the  reserved  right  of  the  consti- 
tution, not  to  be  resorted  to  without  necessity,  much  less  to  be 
talked  of  perpetually,  until  the  most  constitutional  language  is 
hackneyed  out  of  its  dignity,  and  loses  its  impression ; — I  mean 
the  birthright  of  the  nation  to  oppose  a  tyrannical  or  ruinous 
Government  by  force  of  arms,  and  to  discard  a  treacherous, 
ungrateful  king,  as  it  was  exercised  by  the  Whigs  at  the  Ee- 
volution. 

I  have  no  faith  in  the  possibility  of  a  reformation,  such  as 
those  speculations  indicate,  being  adopted  and  executed  by  the 
regular  and  authorised  courses  of  law  ;  that  is,  by  a  parliament 
constituted  and  composed,  as  it  now  is,  of  a  venal,  contemptible 
House  of  Lords,  overloaded  with  priests  and  lawyers,  or  with 
their  representatives,  and  a  rotten,  odious  House  of  Commons, 
with  a  German  king  at  the  head  of  them,  and  a  standing  army 
of  a  hundred  thousand  men  for  the  supposed  defence  of  the  two 
islands.  Of  a  real  nobility,  in  the  ancient  and  rational  sense  of 
the  English  constitution,  inheriting  great  landed  property,  a 
noble  name  and  character,  and  animated  by  the  true  principles 
of  an  aristocracy,  to  stand  between  the  Crown  and  the  people, 
there  is  hardly  a  remnant  left,  and  that  only  in  a  few  individuals, 
whose  spirit  is  overwhelmed  by  numbers  and  lost  in  the  crowd 
of  new  peerages  lavished  by  the  executive  power,  and,  in  one 
way  or  other,  sold  by  the  chief  magistrate  or  his  minions.  How 
long  the  system,  as  it  exists,  or  the  forms  of  it  can  hold  together, 
is  a  question  of  time  more  or  less.  In  what  way  it  will  perish 
must  be  left  to  conjecture.  An  old  oak,  though  rotten  at  the 
root  and  hollow  from  the  bottom  to  the  top,  still  keeps  its  station, 
with  nothing  but  an  antiquated  form  and  a  vigorous  outside  to 
maintain  it.  Probably  the  first  event  will  be  that  the  machinery 
of  the  present  Government  will  stop  of  itself,  because  it  will  go 
no  longer.  The  calamities  which  that  event  may  produce  are 
not  to  be  foreseen  or  provided  for  by  human  wisdom,  if  wisdom 
could  exist  without  virtue. 

The  nominal  union  of  the  two  islands  under  one  Legislature 
was  projected  and  executed  by  William  Pitt,  with  the  vindictive 
rancour  of  a  demon  against  Ireland,  excited  by  a  motive 
hitherto  little  known  or  observed.  He  never  forgave  the  Irish 
Parliament  for  sending  over  a  deputation  of  their  two  Houses, 


APPENDIX.'  529 

in  1789,  to  assure  tte  Prince  of  Wales  that  tliey  would  sup- 
port his  absolute  indisputable  right  to  the  Eegency,  in  the 
case  of  the  king's  mental  incapacity  to  act  for  himself.  It 
belongs  to  our  nature  that  injury  should  provoke  and  sometimes 
justify  resentment.  But  to  conceive  how  services  should  excite 
nothing  but  ingratitude,  and  that  benefactors  should  be  the 
objects  not  of  requital  but  revenge,  demands  a  deeper  insight 
into  the  depravity  of  the  human  heart.  The  Prince  Eegent, 
representing  and  acting  for  his  royal  father,  never  forgave  the 
Irish  Parliament. 


VOL.  II.  M  M 


530  APPENDIX. 


No.  IV. 

The  following  fragment  is  headed  by  Mr.  Parkes  as  a 
special  'Chapter'  of  his  contemplated  'Life  of  Francis.' 
It  is  headed  by  him  '  to  be  recast :'  but  it  resumes  so 
fully  the  conclusions  to  which  his  years  of  labour  had  led 
him,  that  I  have  thought  it  best  to  print  it  at  the  conclu- 
sion of  this  work,  although  incomplete,  and  although 
much  of  its  contents  has  been  necessarily  anticipated. 

On  the  Characteristics  of  Junius  as  an  Individual. — His 
Country,  probable  Age,  Station,  Personal  Accomplish- 
ments, Mind,  Temper,  Antecedents,  and  Future. 

Men  of  all  classes,  ages,  education,  and  circumstances  have 
been  supposed  to  have  been  the  authors  of  the  Letters ;  and  it 
was  an  early  common  hypothesis  that  the  work  was  the  labour 
of  more  than  one  individual,  if  not  of  a  junto  of  party  con- 
federates. The  authorship  has  also  been  claimed  for  Mrs. 
Macaulay,  the  female  historian.  It  may  however  be  assumed, 
without  modern  dispute,  that  Junius  was  a  male ;  impossibly  of 
the  female  sex.  The  topics  and  masculine  gross  spirit  of  Junius 
at  least  afford  internal  demonstration  of  that  fact.  No  woman 
could  have  been  practically  informed  on  the  subject-matters, 
especially  of  the  military  knowledge  so  particularly  communi- 
cated and  discussed.  The  well-known  answer  of  Junius  to 
his  female  opponent  Junia  also  is  evidence  of  the  author's 
manhood. 

So  far  as  regards  his  probable  national  origin — whether  Eng- 
lish, Welsh,  Scotch,  Irish,  or  foreign — and  he  has  been  claimed 
for  nearly  all  the  counties  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  and  for 
Switzerland  and  the  United  States — there  is  much  internal 
evidence  of  his  Irish  extraction.  His  style  betrays  Gallicisms  ; 
he  particularly  uses  the  terms  '  Englishman '  and  '  England '  in 
a  generic  sense,  and  which  Englishmen  do  not  use.     The  dedi- 


APPENDIX.  531 

cation  of  the  author's  edition  of  the  Letters  is,  finally,  '  To  the 
English  Nation.'  Junius  also,  in  several  instances,  displays  a 
national  interest  in  Ireland  uncommon  in  a  born  Briton.  He 
also  betrays  a  local  knowledge  of  the  Luttrell  family,  domi- 
ciliated in  the  county  of  Lismore.  In  no  single  instance  do  any 
one  of  his  letters  even  incidentally  show  any  association  with  an 
English  or  Scotch  university ;  whereas  he  uses  the  peculiar 
term  collegian  in  the  sense  of  Irish  university  men,  and  as 
colloquially  used  in  Ireland.  In  all  his  personal  and  bitter 
attacks  on  English  or  Scotch  public  men,  he  shows  there  is  no 
single  instance  of  any  knowledge  of  their  private  academical 
career  in  Oxford  or  Cambridge. 

So  far  as  the  context  and  spirit  of  his  Letters,  and  apart 
from  the  transparent  object  of  a  false  personation  and  anonymous 
concealment,  his  real  age  was  improbably  even  advanced  to 
the  middle  term  of  human  life.  This  probability  is  deduced 
from!  the  impetuosity  of  his  temperament,  which  indicates 
youth,  and  from  his  frequent  want  of  judgment  and  self-control, 
notwithstanding  his  superior  talents,  his  acuteness  of  intellect, 
and  his  quick  apprehension.  His  occasional  affectation  of 
advanced  years,  and  even  old  age,  is  also  to  be  construed  in 
the  contrary  sense,  and  as  opposed  to  the  unmistakable  in- 
dications of  his  real  comparative  youth.  But  the  strongest 
proof  of  his  political  inexperience  as  a  public  writer  is,  that  his 
known  miscellaneous  letters,  as  well  as  those  under  the  signature 
of  Junius,  are  almost  entirely  confined  to  the  knowledge  of 
public  men  and  politics  of  the  limited  period  on  which  his 
writings  treat.  Twice  only  be  boldly  assumes  the  sexagenarian 
character,  in  an  assertion  of  his  personal  recollection  of  '  the 
great  Walpolian  battles,'  and  in  facetiously  declining  Wilkes' 
offer  of  ball-room  tickets  for  the  Lord  Mayor's  day,  on  the 
ground  that,  '  my  age  and  figure  would  do  but  little  credit  to 
my  partner.'  By  this  ingenious  verbiage  he  neither  avers  that 
he  is  old  or  even  above  middle  age.  It  was  obviously  meant  to 
keep  Wilkes  in  ignorance  of  his  exact  age  and  of  his  personal 
appearance.  An  ugly  man  usually  thinks  himself  an  Apollo,  if 
not  in  face  yet  in  figure,  or  vice  versa.  Thus  deformed  men  at 
balls  are  usually  seen  dressed  in  '  tights'  and  silk.  His  pretence 
of  age  has  therefore  all  the  character  of  a  mask,  and  it  is,  as 
before  remarked,  in  opposition  to  all  other  and  numerous  con- 
clusions to  the  contrary.     Further,  most  of  his  earlier  letters, 

M  M  2 


632  APPENDIX. 

and  some  preceding  those  signed  Junius,  strongly  ntianifest  the 
progressive  formation  of  a  distinctive  style  of  composition  ;  the 
earlier  productions  being  inferior  in  all  respects  to  the  later. 
The  first  essays  are  those  of  a  much  less  practised  hand,  and 
they  are  generally  on  secondary  subjects  of  politics,  and  more 
exclusively  personal.  Their  '  loose '  associations  and  levity  are 
specially  marked  with  the  esprit  and  levity  of  youth.  Certainly 
such  signs  mark  Junius  as  a  writer  of  immature  age,  rather 
than  old.  In  the  dedication  of  his  Letters  to  the  English 
nation,  his  concluding  words — the  expression  of  his  consolation, 
that  civil  liberty  may  still  last  his  own  life — would  not  denote 
any  advanced  age.  He  practises  no  '  restraining  principle,' 
abandoning  his  mind  to  loose  and  wanton  imagination.  He 
was  often  coarse ;  and  even  in  his  graver  and  more  carefully 
studied  letters  under  the  disguise  of  Junius,  he  could  scarcely 
help  being  '  blasphemous,'  even  in  controversy  with  '  Parson 
Home.'  Though  he  lived  in  a  careless  generation,  he  certainly 
would,  if  older,  have  controlled  this  bad  taste.  The  coercion 
on  Woodfall  publicly  to  disavow  the  genuineness  of  his  letter 
to  Junia,  on  the  quick  perception  of  its  immorality,  and  the 
Philo-Jumus  explanation  of  his  trespass  on  popular  piety  by 
his  having  incautiously  rated  the  Junius'  Letters  as  everlasting 
as  the  Holy  Bible,  are  evidence  of  thoughtlessness  and  youthful 
levity.  His  private  letters  to  his  publisher  exhibit  the  pains 
he  took  to  preserve  gravity  and  force  in  his  letters  under  the 
signature  of  Junius.  Whenever  he  laid  aside  that  designation 
for  another,  he  constantly  relapsed  into  his  looser  and  more 
natural  habits  and  associations.  Indeed,  the  poetical  squib  he 
sent  to  Woodfall,  well  known  under  the  title  '  Harry  and  Nan,' 
was  too  bad  for  publication  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser.' 

The  station  of  Junius,  or  his  probable  class  in  society,  are,  on 
reflection,  decisively  indicated  throughout  his  entire  period  of 
five  years'  genuine  publications.  Except  an  occasional  insinua- 
tion or  assumption  of  superior  rank  and  fortune,  all  internal 
evidence  demonstrates  that  his  social  position  was  not  high; 
and  that  probably  his  pecuniary  means  were  moderate,  even  if 
to  be  termed  independent.  Can  any  intelligent  reader  of 
Junius  doubt  that  the  author  was  a  plebeian,  and  that  the 
democratic  origin  and  spirit  of  a  commoner  pervades  nearly 
every  page?  It  is  the  distinctive  die  of  his  entire  productions  ; 
it  is  this  peculiar  phase  of  mind  which  distinguishes  Junius 


APPENDIX.  533 

from  Lord  Bolingbroke — which  to  any  reader  of  the  Cavendish 
record  of  contemporary  parliamentary  debates  contradistin- 
guishes Junius  from  Lord  Temple,  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  and 
other  noblemen,  to  whom  the  authorship  of  the  letters  has 
been  mistakenly  assigned.  The  distinction  once  called  to  a 
reader's  attention  cannot  be  ignored.  The  entire  letters  hear 
the  impress  of  a  commoner's  mind.  The  same  generic  distinc- 
tion runs  through  all  the  pages  of  Burke;  and  although  his 
latter  writings  were  Conservative,  you  still  see  Toryism  treated 
by  a  man  of  the  middle  classes,  not  by  a  man  of  hereditary  or 
aristocratic  class.  In  this  perception  there  can  be  no  mistake. 
It  may  almost  be  as  certainly  assumed  that  Junius  was  not  a 
member  of  either  House  of  Parliament,  even  during  the  entire 
period  of  the  exercise  of  his  pen.  In  no  single  instance  is  there 
any  association  with  senatorial  rank.  In  no  instance,  if  he  was 
in  Parliament,  is  there  any  evidence  or  presumption  from  his 
own  writings  of  his  membership  in  either  branch  of  our  legisla- 
ture. On  the  contrary,  it  is  certain  that  he  was  only  occasionally 
an  auditor  of  debates.  This  is  proved  by  his  anxiety  against  the 
exclusion  of  strangers  at  particular  times :  palpably  his  own 
anxiety  for  admission  as  a  '  stranger.'  Had  Junius  been  himself 
a  parliamentary  debater  or  a  '  silent  member,'  it  is  scarcely 
possible,  in  such  rapid  and  often  hasty  comments  on  subject- 
matters  of  senatorial  discussion,  he  should  not  have  disclosed 
or  unwittingly  revealed  the  fact.  His  private  letters  to  Mr. 
George  Grenville,  to  Lord  Chatham,  even  frequently  to  Woodfall, 
and  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  almost  demonstrate,  not  only  that  he  was 
not  in  Parliament,  but  that  he  was  in  no  private  or  public 
position  favourable  to  a  full  confidential  knowledge  of  the 
arcana  and  prospective  movements  of  the  leading  public  minis- 
terial men,  or  in  communion  with  the  leaders  of  Opposition.  A 
contrary  conclusion  has  been  drawn;  but  viewing  the  long 
period  of  the  public  writing  of  Junius,  it  is  remarkable  (if  the 
information  in  his  letters  is  analysed  and  duly  weighed)  how 
few  material  private  political  secrets  or  public  springs  of  action 
were  known  to  or  revealed  by  the  writer.  It  may  be  admitted 
that  there  is  one  partial  exception  to  this  general  conclusion,  so 
far  as  relates  to  military  men  of  rank  and  to  War  Office 
transactions  in  particular.  On  the  latter  subjects  he  was  well 
informed.  Such  knowledge,  as  if  from  almost  exclusive  private 
sources  of  information,  constitutes  a  marked  and  pointed  indi- 


634-  APPENDIX. 

cation  that  his  identity  must  be  sought  for  in  relation  to  some  of 
the  departments  of  our  military  administration.     Junius  must 
have  been  in  close  and  personal  connection  with  the  army.     He 
could  not  have  derived  the  particular  and   minute   military 
details  in  his  letters  from  second  hand.     Moreover,  if  possibly 
so  derivable,  the  aniTnus  of  his  treatment  of  them  could  not 
have  been  so  professional  as  his  letters  doubtless  are  in  their 
tone  and  spirit.     His  letter  to  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  of  the 
17th  October  1769,  on  the  military  outrage  and  riots  occasioned 
by  the  arrest  for  debt  of  Major  Gransel,  and  that  officer's  rescue, 
in  its  exact  and  many  unknown  particulars,  in  its  phraseology 
and  military  nomenclature,  could  only  have  been  written  from 
exact  and  private  information  direct  from  the  Horse  Guards, 
the  Ordnance,  the  Commissariat  Office,  or  the  War  Office.     In 
the  latter  department,  at  that  period,  the  details  made  public 
would  chiefly  be  known.    Again,  when  Junius  finally  concluded 
his  writings  under  that  signature,  by  his  letter  to  Lord  Camden 
of  the  21st  January,  1772,  what  possible  motive,  except  that  of 
personal  wrong  from  or  animosity  against  Lord  Barrington  (the 
Secretary  of  War),  and  some  direct  personal  connection  with 
the  War  Office,  could  induce  the  same  writer,  who  only  recently 
avowed  his  retirement  from  the  Press,  again  to  enter  the  arena, 
and  to  fulminate,  under  other  and  repeatedly  changed  anony- 
mous signatures,  thunders  of  wrath  and  personalities  against 
the  Secretary  of  War  ?     Lord  Barrington,  during  the   entire 
career  of  Junius,  and  in  known  miscellaneous  letters,  had  been 
always  singularly  less  abused  (with  particular  exceptions)  and 
more  reservedly  commented  upon  than  any  other  member  of 
the   Grenville,  Eockingham,  Chatham,  and  North  administra- 
tions !  Yet  Lord  Barrington,  of  all  members,  was  in  truth  the  most 
assailable.    The  noble  lord  had  been  Secretary  of  War  through- 
out the  ministries  of  Pitt  (Lord  Chatham)  and  Lord  Bute  ;  and 
except  being  jyro  tempore  out  of  office  for  eleven  months  in  the 
interregnum  of  eleven  months  only,  his  lordship  had,  as  'a  king's 
man,'  retained  his  position  in  the  four  cabinets  above  mentioned, 
being,  therefore,  a  sort  of  standing  Secretary  at  War  from  June 
1757  to  January  1772,  when  Junius  ceased  any  longer  to  write. 
One  public  provocation  only  had  previously  moved  Junius  to 
any  serious  comment  on  Lord  Barrington,  viz.,  his  lordship's 
letter  complimentary  of  the  military  employed  in  the  suppres- 
sion of  the  riots.    The  only  very  vindictive  allusion  to  Lord 


APPENDIX.  535 

Barrington  is  in  a  private  letter  of  Junius  to  Wilkes,  Vth  of 
September  1771,  in  which  (commenting  on  Article  6  of  the 
Declaration  of  the  supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Eights,  demanding 
impeachment  of  ministers)  Junius  says :  'As  for  Lord  "Weymouth 
and  Lord  Barrington,  their  own  letters  are  a  sufficient  ground 
of  impeachment.'  Thus  he  betrayed  an  animus  against  him 
in  private  which  he  concealed  in  his  public  letters.  In  some 
few  other  occasions,  and  on  discussions  of  public  questions  in 
the  House  of  Commons,  Junius  had  certainly  mentioned  Lord 
Barrington  in  terms  of  dispraise ;  but  no  critical  reader  of  the 
letters  can  fail  to  discern  that,  for  some  unknown  reasons,  towards 
this  noble  and  pliant  placeman  (always  a  member  of  the  several 
cabinets)  Junius  always  preserved  comparative  silence,  and 
dealt  out  to  his  lordship  less  condemnation  than  to  any  of 
his  colleagues.  Whilst  corresponding  privately  with  his  pub- 
lisher Woodfall,  and  engaged  in  the  completion  of  an  authorised 
collected  edition  of  the  selected  Letters  of  Junius,  we  find  the 
author  strangely  and  suddenly  incensed  by  the  retirement  of 
two  of  the  principal  clerks  of  the  War  Office.  On  the  25th 
January,  1772,  Junius,  in  a  private  letter  to  the  publisher  of 
the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  encloses  to  Woodfall  a  most  furious 
letter  of  attack  en  Lord  Barrington  for  publication  (Bohn's 
-Junius,'  vol.  ii.  p.  54). 

The  public  letter,  under  the  signature  of  '  Veteran,'  was  pub- 
lished on  the  28th  inst.  It  will  be  hereafter  shown  that  the 
facts  which  form  the  staple  of  this  letter  were  really  of  no 
public  moment  or  interest,  except  so  far  as  affording  a  peg  on 
which  to  hang  abuse  of  a  minister  ;  and  the  contents  of  the 
letter  could  only  be  confidentially  known  in  the  War  Office  or  to 
the  retiring  clerks,  D'Oyley  and  Francis.  In  this  diatribe,  for 
the  first  time  Junius,  under  another  fictitious  signature,  de- 
nounces Lord  Barrington  for  that  pliancy  and  suppleness  of 
political  principle  which  had  continued  his  lordship  in  his 
office  during  so  many  different  party  administrations.  The 
letter  betrays  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  personnel  and 
interior  of  the  War  Office.  The  particular  provocation  by 
Lord  Barrington  was  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Chamier,  a  Stock 
Exchange  broker,  to  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  resignation  of 
D'Oyley.  This  sudden  and  apparently  inexplicable  attack  was 
succeeded  by  four  other  public  letters  to  Lord  Barrington 
under  the  same  signature,  under  the  respective  dates  of  17th 


636  APPENDIX, 

Feb.,  the  27th,  the  10th  March,  and  the  23rd  March  (1772). 
In  the  latter  letter,  '  Veteran '  says  that  Lord  Barrington,  '  not 
content  with  having  driven  Mr.  D'Oyley  out  of  the  War  Office, 
has  contrived  to  expel  Mr.  Francis.'  The  words  in  italics  were 
not  italicised  in  the  original  letter.  They  are  only  now  specially 
so  distinguished  for  the  reader's  observation  as  a  special  use  of 
words  by  '  Veteran '  which  will  be  hereafter  distinctly  and  singu- 
larly traced  to  '  Veteran's '  direct  knowledge  of  the  causes  of  the 
retirement  of  the  two  clerks.  It  will  be  made  clear,  hereafter, 
that  neither  Mr.  D'Oyley  nor  Mr.  Francis  was,  however,  dis- 
missed by  Lord  Barrington's  conduct  as  their  chief:  they 
might  have  been  '  driven '  out  of  office.  But  Junius  did  not 
even  here  cease  his  anathemas. 

In  a  private  note  to  Woodfall,  of  the  assigned  date  of  Sunday, 
3rd  May  (1772),  Junius  enclosed  to  him,  for  publication  also,  a 
seventh  attack;  and  changing  his  signature  from  his  late  one  of 
'Veteran,'  to  that  of  '  Scotus.'  In  his  private  note  he  vouches 
for  a  fact  stated  by  '  Scotus.'  He  tells  Woodfall,  privately,  that 
'  the  proceedings  of  this  wretch'  are  unaccountable  :  there  must 
be  some  mystery  in  it,  which  I  hope  will  soon  be  discovered,  to 
his  confusion.'  He  adds,  'Next  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  I 
verily  believe  that  the  blackest  heart  in  the  kingdom  belongs  to 
Lord  Barrington.'  '  Scotus '  added  to  the  acrimonious  political 
and  personal  abase  of  the  Secretary  at  War  contained  in  the 
former  letters  of  '  Veteran.'  There  is  a  particular  charge  in 
this  attack  against  Lord  Barrington,  in  an  accusation  of  inso- 
lence towards  inferiors.  '  Scotus '  gives  an  instance  of  some 
case  of  resentment  on  the  part,  apparently,  of  a  clerk.  Under 
the  iictitious  signature  of  a  Scotsman,  '  Scotus '  retaliates  on 
Lord  Barrington  the  charge  against  the  Scots  of  fawning  ser- 
vility. Inadvertently — that  is,  if  the  writer  assumed  his  anony- 
mous disguise  for  non-detection — a  singular  incident  escapes 
him  in  his  retaliation  :  he  reminds  Lord  Barrington,  '  You  have 
had  some  lessons  which  have  made  you  more  cautious  than  you 
used  to  be :  you  have  reason  to  remember  that  modest,  humble 
merit  will  not  always  bear  to  be  insulted  by  an  upstart  in  office.' 
The  mention  of  a  private  and  casual  occurrence  shows  that  the 
writer  was,  in  all  probability,  familiar  with  the  dramatis  per- 
soncB  of  the  War  Office — personally  acquainted  with  the  depart- 

>  Lord  Barrington, 


APPENDIX.  637 

ment,  if  not  once  in  official  relation  to  Lord  Barrington.  All 
this  class  of  letters  also  demonstrate  that  the  anonymous  writer 
must  necessarily  not  only  have  had  some  serious  real  or  imagi- 
nary complaint  against  the  Secretary  of  War,  individually,  or 
some  great  cause  of  personal  quarrel.  The  letters  in  question 
further  demonstrate  the  writer's  familiar  knowledge  of  the 
person,  manners,  family  relations,  early  and  entire  career  and 
social  habits  of  his  lordship. 

This  bitter  and  intense  personal  feeling  of  Junius  did  not 
even  terminate  with  the  letter  of  '  Scotus.'  Four  days  after, 
'  Scotus '  thus  took  the  field  in  another  letter,  under  a  new 
signature  of  '  Arthur  Tell-truth,'  another  piece  of  ordnance 
brought  into  the  field  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  but  addressed 
to  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty.  Junius  had 
noticed  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Bradshaw  to  be  a  member  of 
their  board.  He  had  always  previously  shown  much  political, 
if  not  personal,  dislike  of  Bradshaw.  On  this  occasion,  a  private 
letter  to  Woodfall  (No.  52,  25th  Jan.  1772)  is  a  clue  to  the 
motives  prompting  the  attack  of  '  Arthur  Tell-truth : '  Junius 
had  been  moved  by  what  he  believed  to  be  a  fact,  viz.,  that 
Lord  Barrington  had  'just  appointed  a  French  broker  (Chamier) 
his  deputy,  for  no  reason  but  his  relation  to  Bradshaw.'  Mr. 
Bradshaw  was  brother-in-law  to  Mr.  Chamier.  Hinc  illce  lach- 
rymce.  Junius  writes  to  his  publisher :  '  Be  careful  not  to  let 
it  come  from  me.  Such  an  insignificant  creature  is  not  worth 
the  generous  rage  of  Junius.'  '  Arthur  Tell-truth '  asserts,  as 
was  true,  that  Bradshaw  was  '  one  of  Lord  Barrington's  do- 
mestics, from  whence  he  moved  to  Ireland,  set  up  a  shop,'  and 
'  ultimately  was  appointed  one  of  the  secretaries  to  the  Treasury.' 
The  revelations  in  this  letter  denote  an  intimate  acquaintance 
with  Lord  Barrington,  and  with  the  personnel  and  biography 
of  his  lordship's  household.  In  what  relation  must  Junius 
have  been  to  Lord  Barrington  that  he  could  have  acquired  a 
knowledge  of  such  social  particulars  ?  or  why  should  they  have 
been  obtruded  on  the  public,  unless  Junius  had  cause  of  per- 
sonal affront  or  other  hatred  ? 

The  last  public  communication  from  Junius  ever  received  by 
Woodfall  was  a  further  assault  on  Lord  Barrington,  under  the 
new  signature  of  '  Nemesis ; '  and  expressly  again  requesting, 
as  in  the  case  of  the  first  letter  of  '  Veteran,'  that  the  writer 
might  not  be  identified  with  or  publicly  known  to  be  Junius. 


538  APPENDIX. 

This  final  production  of  a  most  extraordinar}'^  and  chameleon 
public  writer  was  enclosed  by  Junius  to  Mr.  Woodfall  in. a 
private  note  of  three  lines,  as  follows  :  'May  10,  1772. — Pray 
let  this  be  announced,  "  Memoirs  of  Lord  Barrington  in  our 
next."  Keep  the  author  a  secret.'  This  private  letter  is  be- 
lieved also  to  have  been  the  last  confidential  communication  to 
Woodfall  received  by  the  publisher,  except  one  further  private 
letter  of  the  19th  January,  1773. 

'  Nemesis  '  in  this  final  public  letter  gives  still  fuller  details 
of  Lord  Barrington's  public  life.  He  enumerates  the  prefer- 
ments of  all  the  brothers  of  the  noble  viscount :  that  '  one 
brother  was  a  general  officer,  with  a  regiment  and  chief  com- 
mand at  Gadeloupe ;  a  second  high  in  the  navy,  with  a  regiment 
of  marines ;  a  third  a  judge ;  and  the  fourth  a  bishop.'  He 
sarcastically  records  Lord  Barrington's  own  '  singular  good 
fortune  of  never  being  himself  a  moment  out  of  place,'  added 
to  his  lordship's  '  extraordinary  success  in  providing  for  every 
branch  of  his  family.'  '  Nemesis  '  sums  up  this  good  luck  of 
the  viscount  in  '  the  influence  of  Grovernment  for  a  seat  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  which  he  holds  without  its  costing  him  a 
shilling.'  This  '  short  review  of  his  political  birth '  was  pre- 
faced by  an  apparently  unguarded,  though  natural,  averment  of 
the  writer's  personal  knowledge  of  his  victim,  as  follows  :  '  He 
is  modest  enough  to  affirm  in  all  companies  that  Jds  services 
are  unrewarded  ;  that  he  bears  the  burthen  ;  that  other  people 
engross  the  profits  ;  and  that  he  gets  nothing.  Those  who 
know  but  little  of  his  history  may  perhaps  be  inclined  to  pity 
him  ;  but  he  and  I  have  been  old  acquaintance,  and  considering 
the  size  of  his  understanding,  I  believe  I  shall  be  able  to  prove 
that  no  man  in  the  kingdom  ever  sold  himself  and  his  services 
to  better  advantage  than  Lord  Barrington.' 

All  these  private  letters,  and  the  entire  original  manuscript 
of  the  letter  of  '  Scotus,'  are  still  extant,  in  the  possession  of 
Mr.  Woodfall,  son  of  the  publisher  of  the  'Public  Advertiser.' 
All  the  manuscripts  are  in  one  and  the  same  fictitious  hand — 
that  of  Junius.  Now,  can  it  be  credible  that  in  the  composition 
of  these  letters  the  writer  was  not  impelled  by  some  real  or 
imagined  personal  wrong  received  from  Lord  Barrington,  and 
that  the  cause  of  animosity  was  not  subsequent  to  the  publi- 
cation of  the  letters  signed  Junius  ?  No  other  reasonable  con- 
clusion could  be  maintained  in  any  judicial  investigation  of 


APPENDIX.  539 

libels.  The  confusion  and  suspension  only  of  the  reasoning 
faculties  in  literary  controversies  could  only  dispute  such  a 
logical  inference.  Why,  otherwise,  should  Junius  single  out 
Lord  Barrington,  after  nearly  five  years  of  comparative  im- 
munity, for  such  repeated  and  severe  personal  attacks,  when  his 
series  of  political  commentaries  on  his  lordship's  colleagues  was 
concluded  ?  What  springs  of  human  action  could  occasion  this 
partial  resumption  of  his  pen  ?  The  passion  of  revenge  could 
only  be  the  sudden  and  fierce  motive  ;  the  animus  of  the  writer 
could  only  intend  the  injury  of  a  nobleman  who,  he  believed, 
had  injured  himself.  If  private,  and  not  public,  motives  did  not 
induce  these  attacks,  what  did  ?  and  where  was  the  armoury 
used  by  Junius  if  his  weapons  were  not  brought  from  the  War 
Office  ?  In  the  course  of  these  volumes,  it  will  be  shown  that 
Junius  did  arm  himself  from  that  ofiice. 

It  is  here  observable  that  by  the  constant  change  of  fictitious 
signatures,  the  writer  (as  Junius),  in  his  assault  on  Lord  Bar- 
rington, adopted  various  masks  ;  and  that  his  probable  intention 
was  to  avoid  any  discovery  of  his  identity  in  either  character 
by  Lord  Barrington.  He  would  not  otherwise  have  adopted  so 
many  devices  and  every  other  conceivable  mode  of  concealment. 
All  these  arts  are  proofs  that  he  was  bond  fide  true  to  his  own 
secret,  and  truthful  in  his  invariable  declaration  in  his  public 
and  private  letters,  that  he  was  the  sole  depositor  of  his  own 
secret.  Probably  he  was  convinced  that  by  no  other  mode 
could  it  be  securely  kept.  The  greatest  risk  he  ran,  and  he 
was  apparently  sensible  of  it,  was  the  indulgence  at  last  of  this 
overruling  animosity  towards  Lord  Barrington.  Hence  his  re- 
peated change  of  signatures,  and  his  increased  caution  in  inter- 
course with  Woodfall  during  his  editorship  of  the  authorised 
edition  of  Junius  and  his  correction  of  the  proofs.  At  the  end 
of  1771,  he  ceased  epistolary  communication  with  Wilkes.  The 
date  of  Wilkes'  last  letter  to  him  was  15th  January,  1772.  On 
the  1 8th  of  that  month  he  mentions,  in  a  private  letter  to 
Woodfall,  that  a  '  difficulty'  had  occurred  in  their  communication 
on  the  preceding  night.  On  the  3rd  of  February  he  forbids 
Woodfall  to  forward  to  him  anything  not  '  material.'  On  the 
10th  inst.  he  tells  him  only  to  transmit  packets  for  him  '  to  the 
original  place  for  once ; '  and,  afterwards,  to  '  mention  any  new 
place '  he  thought  proper  '  west  of  Temple  Bar.'  On  the  Tues- 
day, 3rd  of  March,  following,  he  apprises  Woodfall  that  his  last 


540  APPENDIX. 

'  letter  was  twice  refused  last  night,  and  the  waiter  as  often 
attempted  to  see  the  person  who  sent  for  it;'  and  he  directs 
Woodfall's  next  packet  to  be  left  at  Munday's  Coffee  House, 
Maiden  Lane,  with  orders  that  it  should  be  '  delivered  to  a  chair- 
man who  would  call  for  it  on  the  following  evening.' 

These  increased  apprehensions  of  discovery,  and  fresh  ar- 
rangements for  the  preservation  of  his  strict  incognito,  could 
not  have  been  groundless  alarms  or  a  disturbed  imagination. 
They  must  have  been  real  causes  for  caution  against  de- 
tection. It  can  scarcely  be  doubted  that,  from  the  above, 
several  occurrences  and  attempts  at  this  particular  period  to 
detect  the  dreaded  Public  Writer,  that  stratagems  for  his  sur- 
prise were  resorted  to  by  the  Government — most  probably  on 
behalf  of  Lord  Barrington.  Other  facts,  brought  to  light,  here- 
after to  be  stated,  will  render  this  conclusion  still  more  probable. 
At  present  for  consecutive  narrative  and  chronological  deduc- 
tions this  contemporary  statement  is  confined  exclusively  to 
circumstances  recorded  in  the  Woodfall  and  Junius  Private 
Correspon  dence. 

From  first  to  last  in  all  their  epistolary  intercourse,  Junius 
betrays  deep  anxiety  to  continue  unknown.  In  the  very  first 
extant  private  note  to  Woodfall,  Junius  desires  particularly  that 
he  relies  on  the  Publisher  of  the  Public  Ledger  '  to  give  him 
'  a  hint '  of  any  inquiry  made  about  his  articles  (20  April,  1769). 
In  his  third  note  (15  July),  he  begs  Woodfall  to  tell  him  can- 
didly whether  he  knows  or  suspects  his  identity ;  and  he  directs 
him  to  address  a  letter  on  the  following  Monday  under  the 
name  of  '  Mr.  William  Middleton,  to  be  left  at  the  bar  of  the 
New  Exchange  Coffee  House,  on  Monday,  as  early  as  you  think 
proper.'  The  week  following  (21  July)  he  alters  his  address  to 
'  Mr.  John  Fretley,  at  the  same  Coffee  House,  where  it  is  im- 
possible /  should  he  known.''  This  last  observation,  italicised 
for  the  reader's  observation,  was  an  unwitting  admission  that  he 
at  least  occasionally  called  in  person  for  Woodfall's  communica- 
tions. A  person  of  known  public  rank  or  high  station  would 
scarcely  run  the  risk  of  personally  receiving  the  letters.  On 
October  the  5th  (1769),  he  privately  writes  Mr.  Woodfall,  inter 
alia :  '  As  to  me,  be  assured  that  it  is  not  in  the  nature  of 
things,  that  they  (the  Cavendishes)  or  you,  or  any  body  else 
should  ever  know  me,  unless  I  made  myself  known.  All  arts, 
or  enquiries,  or  rewards,  would  be  equally  ineffectual.'     In  No- 


APPENDIX.  641 

vember  following,  for  further  precaution,  he  instructs  Woodfall, 
in  his  '  Public  Advertiser's '  notices  to  him  as  a  Correspondent  as 
follows :  '  Instead  of  C.  in  the  usual  place,  say  only  A.  letter, 
when  you  have  occasion  to  write  to  me  again.  I  shall  under- 
stand you.'  At  the  close  of  that  year,  on  26  Dec.  1769,  when 
Woodfall  was  apprehending  a  possible  prosecution  if  he  con- 
tinued the  certain  course  of  libel,  Junius  in  another  private 
note  says,  '  I  doubt  much  whether  I  shall  even  have  the  pleasure 
of  knowing  you ;  but  if  things  take  the  turn  I  expect,  you  shall 
know  me  hy  my  works.''  Whether  or  not  this  italicised  passage 
meant  any  indirect  promise  of  pecuniary  aid,  or  referred  only 
to  political  or  literary  works  he  designed,  is  doubtful.  About 
the  beginning  of  February  1770,  according  to  the  Woodfall 
Editor's  supposed  date,  of  an  undated  private  note,  and  when  a 
prosecution  for  libel  was  pending  against  the  '  Public  Advertiser  ' 
on  account  of  Junius'  Letter  to  the  King,  Junius  writes  to 
him  :  '  When  you  consider  to  what  excessive  enmities  I  may  be 
exposed,  you  will  not  wonder  at  my  caution.  I  really  have  not 
known  how  to  procure  your  last.  If  it  be  not  of  any  great 
moment,  I  would  wish  you  to  recall  it.  If  it  be,  give  me  a 
hint.'  This  note  contained  the  first  and  only  direct  allusion  to 
a  pecuniary  indemnity  against  any  cost  of  a  defence  of  legal 
proceedings  against  the  Printer  or  Proprietary  of  the  'Public 
Advertiser,'  for  the  publication  of  Junius'  Letter  to  the  King : 
'  If  your  affair  (the  indictment)  should  be  tried,  and  you 
should  be  found  guilty,  you  will  then  let  me  know  what 
expense  falls  particularly  on  yourself;  for  I  understand  you 
are  engaged  with  other  Proprietors.  Some  way  or  other  you 
shall  be  reimbursed.  But  seriously  and  bond  fide,  1  think  it  is 
impossible.' 

It  is  here  observable,  that  the  promise  of  a  simple  reim- 
bursement of  any  expenses  personally  falling  on  Woodfall  as  one 
of  the  journal  shareholders,  and  without  any  promise  of  any 
indemnity  for  suffering  a  term  of  imprisonment  if  convicted, 
and  excluding  any  indemnity  of  the  publisher's  co-partners, 
does  not  indicate  the  affluence  of  Junius.  Nor  does  the  fact  of 
his  going  east  and  west,  in  person,  for  letters  and  parcels  of 
Woodfall  bespeak  any  high  station  of  the  unknown  friend  and 
correspondent.  On  the  contrary,  the  natural  assumption  would 
be  that  the  rank  and  fortune  of  Junius  were  only  of  the  middle, 
not  of  the  higher  class  of  society.     Certainly  if  Junius  was  a 


C42  APPENDIX. 

man  of  high  station,  or  large  fortune,  this  last  note  was  not  in 
the  most  liberal  spirit. 

On  the  2nd  January  (1771),  he  again  has  a  correspondence 
with  Woodfall,  involving  the  anxious  subject  of  security  against 
any  '  plant '  or  detection.  Junius  writes  Woodfall  the  follow- 
ing note,  again  changing  a  previous  direction.  On  the  11th 
February  (1771),  he  writes  to  Woodfall :  'Our  correspondence 
is  attended  with  difficulties,  yet  I  should  be  glad  to  see  the 
paper  you  mention ;  let  it  be  left  to-morrow  tuithout  further 
notice.^  Ten  days  afterwards  (21st),  he  writes  to  W'oodfall  that, 
'  It  will  be  very  difficult,  if  not  impracticable,  for  me  to  get  your 
note,'- — the  day  previously  the  notices  to  correspondents  in 
the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  have  privately  announced  that  a 
'  Letter '  from  the  Publisher  was  in  waiting  for  him.  On  the  19th 
April,  .Junius  sends  to  Woodfall  a  public  letter,  and  in  enclosing 
it  says  in  a  private  note  :  '  It  will  be  impossible  for  me  to  have  an 
opportunity  of  altering  any  part  of  it.'  In  November  (15th, 
1771),  Junius,  in  a  private  note,  instructs  Woodfall :  'Don't 
always  use  the  same  signal — any  absurd  Latin  verse  will  answer 
the  purpose.'  On  the  17th  December  (1771),  Junius  writes  to 
Woodfall,  '  on  no  account,  nor  for  any  reason  whatever,  are  you 
to  write  to  me,  until  I  give  you  notice.'  The  cautions  and 
alarms  given  by  Junius  to  Woodfall  of  the  following  and  last 
year  of  their  inter-private  communications  have  been  already 
recorded. 

They  are  all  remaining  extant,  and  as  published  first  by  the 
son  of  Woodfall,  with  the  assistance  of  Dr.  Groode,  in  1812.  They 
do  not  comprise  all  the  private  letters  which  were  written  to  the 
elder  Mr.  Woodfall ;  only  those  which,  fortunately,  he  had  pre- 
served. None  of  the  private  notes  of  Woodfall  to  Junius  during 
the  entire  period  of  their  private  and  public  correspondence, 
have  come  to  light.  Probably  they  were  afterwards  destroyed 
by  Junius  himself,  that  no  such  documentary  records  might 
exist  for  his  future  discovery  or  identification.  Had  the  entii-e 
letters  of  the  two  correspondents  been  preserved  and  made 
public,  it  is  almost  certain  that  more  alarms  and  cautions  would 
have  been  contained  in  their  several  lost  letters.  Occasionally 
the  cautions  and  directions  of  Junius  may  have  been  guards 
against  possible  treachery  on  the  part  of  his  publisher,  although 
in  point  of  fact  the  former  put  almost  implicit  and  justifiable 
faith  in  the  fidelity  of  Mr.  Woodfall.     But  in  the  context  of 


APPEIS'DIX.  543 

these  confidential  and  singular  interchanges  of  private  letters, 
it  is  undoubted  that  Junius  continued  his  public  letters  under 
the  constant  and  acute  fears  of  his  detection  by  the  government. 
It  is  equally  palpable  that  he  viewed  his  possible  discovery  as 
his  private  '  ruin.'  This  ruin  might  have  been  a  sense  of  sacri- 
fice of  his  private  reputation  or  honour ;  or  more  probably  it 
might  have  indicated  the  ruin  of  his  pecuniary  condition  and 
prospects ;  or,  his  liability  to  criminal  prosecution,  or  even  to 
parliamentary  impeachment.  On  the  10th  November,  1771, 
enclosing  to  Woodfall  his  letter  to  Garrick,  he  writes  privately: 
'  I  would  have  sent  the  above  to  G-arrick  directly,  but  that  I 
would  avoid  having  this  hand  too  commonly  seen.  Oblige  me, 
then,  so  much  as  to  have  it  copied  in  any  hand,  and  sent  by 
the  penny  post,  that  is,  if  you  dislike  sending  it  in  your  own 
writing.'  Junius  adds,  '  I  must  be  more  cautious  than  ever, 
I  am  sure  that  I  should  not  survive  discovery  three  days ;  or, 
if  I  did  they  would  attaint  me  by  Bill.'  He  then  orders  Wood- 
fall  to  '  change  to  Somerset  Coffee  House,  and  let  no  mortal 
know  the  alteration.'  Junius  further  concludes  this  note  in  a 
similar  state  of  terror :  '  I  am  persuaded  you  are  too  honest  a 
man  to  contribute  in  any  way  to  my  destruction.  Act  honour- 
ably by  me,  and  at  a  proper  time  you  shall  know  me.'  Three 
days  afterwards,  10th  November  (1771),  Junius  renews  his 
cautions  to  the  publisher,  in  another  private  note,  enclosing  to 
him  a  public  Letter  under  the  new  signature  of  Vindex : 
'  When  you  send  to  me,  instead  of  the  usual  signal,  say,  Vindex 
shall  be  considered,  and  keep  the  alteration  a  secret  to  every- 
body.' On  the  27th  he  desires  a  communication  from  him 
simply  to  be  acknowledged  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser' by  the 
substituted  notice  under  the  word  '  received.' 

All  this  eccentric  correspondence  between  Junius  and  his 
publisher  appears  to  have  been  as  singularly,  if  not  abruptly, 
dropped  by  the  former.  An  interregnum  of  eight  months — 
from  10th  May,  1772,  to  19th  January,  1773,  occurred — the 
two  last  letters  of  Junius,  bearing  those  dates  respectively. 
This  hiatus  in  their  intercouse  is  a  circumstance  to  be  noticed, 
and  further  as  hereafter  affording  a  clue  to  the  cause  of  an  un- 
precedented suspension  in  their  inter-communications. 

This  letter  is  remarkable  as  showing— that  if  Junius  had  pre- 
viously seen  'the  signals'  in  the 'Public  Advertiser' he  either 
from  absence  from  London  or  being  abroad,  had   not  been 


544  APPENDIX. 

locallj"  able  to  answer  them ;  or  if  at  home,  that  he  had  not 
chosen  to  reply.  The  fact,  however,  affords  a  possible  clue  to 
his  discovery.  It  is  a  reasonable  inference  that  he  may  have 
been  during  the  interregnum  out  of  England ;  and  that  on  his 
return  referring  to  the  file  of  the  newspaper,  he  then  answered 
the  prior  signal.  The  probability  of  his  having  been  abroad  is 
also  palpable,  the  '  Public  Advertiser '  not  having  answered  that 
last  letter  (written,  at  least  dated  on  the  nineteenth  oi  January) 
until  the  eighth  of  March — a  lapse  of  twenty  days  between  the 
date  and  acknowledged  receipt.  It  is,  however,  possible,  but 
not  probable,  that  Junius  might  in  England  have  post-dated 
this  letter  for  the  purpose  of  blinding  Woodfall  as  to  his  metro- 
politan locality.  The  purpose  however  of  such  a  blind  is  not 
apparent.  But  the  letter  and  spirit  of  this  last  communication 
•with  Woodfall  imply  a  thorough  disgust  and  abandonment  of 
all  interest  in  home  politics.  It  is  in  its  terms  evidently  meant 
as  a  farewell  letter,  so  far  as  himself,  although  ho  permits 
Woodfall  to  signalise  him  again — '  if  you  have  anything  to  com- 
municate of  moment  to  yourself.'  The  acknowledgment  of 
the  receipt  of  this  letter  by  Woodfall  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser' 
was  in  all  probability  the  following  '  signal '  among  the  notices 
to  correspondents  on  the  8th  of  March, — '  The  letter  from  an 
old  friend  and  correspondent,  dated  Jan.  19,  came  safe  to 
hand,  and  his  directions  are  strictly  followed.  Quod  si  quis 
existimat," 

Mr.  Woodfall's  last  recorded  letter  to  Junius  (of  which  he 
kept  a  rough  copy)  singularly  bears  date  only  one  day  pre- 
viously, viz.  Sunday,  the  7th  March.  No  answer  appears  to 
have  been  given  by  Junius:  at  least  none  was  preserved  by 
Woodfall,  so  far  as  the  son  discovered.  If  any  reply  had  been 
written  and  received  it  is  not  likely  to  have  been  destroyed  by 
the  publisher.  Such  is  the  mystery  in  which  Junius  vanishes 
from  the  stage  of  Journalism  ! 

Questions  naturally  arise,  can  this  remarkable  interregnum 
in  the  correspondence  be  accounted  for  ?  and  also,  can  the  cause 
of  the  delay  in  the  acknowledgment  of  this  last  letter  be  dis- 
covered and  explained?  Was  the  retirement  of  Junius  from 
his  voluntary  and  favourite  pursuit  of  political  controversy 
solely,  or  only  in  part,  occasioned  by  his  disgust  of  the  state  of 
public  opinion  and  the  temporary  disagreement  of  Liberals  ? 
Or  did  other  causes  of  self-interest,  of  change  of  country,  death. 


APPENDIX.  643 

or  disturbed  sanity  terminate  his  newspaper  career  ?  Its  close 
was  '  not  natural.'  If  Junius  did  not  from  this  period  live  and 
die  in  a  foreign  country,  and  his  early  death  after  1773  was 
not  probable  if  a  man  of  middle  age,  was  it  not  almost  certain 
that  in  the  future  life  or  future  writings  of  so  powerful  and 
distinctly  marked  a  writer  he  would  be  identified  by  some  sub- 
sequent literary  or  political  writings  ?  The  question  would  then 
arise,  did  he  and  at  what  period,  and  under  what  circumstances, 
resume  his  pen  in  the  field  of  politics  ?  If  he  did  re-enter  the 
arena  the  trace  of  resemblance  to  Junius  might  not  immediately 
be  so  apparent  as  might  be  supposed.  Certainly  the  style  of 
his  Junius  compositions  was  artificial  in  a  great  degree,  and 
the  occasion  and  the  temptation  to  resume  the  particular  manner 
of  writing  might  not  again  happen  to  the  individual.  Indeed, 
if  Junius  was  in  any  subordinate  Public  State  Department  and 
afterwards  quitted  his  ofiice,  or  acquired  a  higher  station,  he 
was  not  likely  again  to  employ  his  literary  talents  in  the  same 
manner  ;  nor  indeed  would  he  have  the  temptations  or  materials 
for  the  personal  and  special  topics  of  the  celebrated  Letters.  If 
undetected,  he  would  not,  when  an  older  man,  again  incur  the 
same  risks ;  if  as  Junius  he  had  been  by  some  leading  public 
man  discovered,  though  a  few  might  have  kept  his  secret,  he 
would  have  been  still  more  reluctant  to  repeat  his  offences 
against  political  society.  Nor,  if  he  long  survived  the  pub- 
lication of  his  famous  Letters,  could  he  fail  to  disapprove  and 
self-condemn  much  which  he  had  published  under  his  old 
anonymous  designations. 

The  Letters  of  Junius,  it  is  observable,  were  generally  based 
on  no  '  plan,''  although  a  plan  has  been  imagined  by  many  of  his 
commentators.  It  may  be  true  that  at  the  commencement  of 
the  year  1769  he  may  have  designed  a  series  of  more  laborious 
and  studied  attacks  on  the  Duke  of  Grrafton's  new  Premiership 
and  Ministry  (and  which  within  twelve  months  he  much  con- 
tributed to  overthrow),  but  accidental  circumstances  during  the 
progress  of  his  letters  constantly  diverted  as  well  as  turned  his 
pen.  The  instances  are  numerous:  Sir  William  Draper  un- 
expectedly and  immediately  broke  his  lance  with  Junius.  Un- 
expected Parliamentary  debates  and  occurrences  in  rapid  suc- 
cession took  place :  Wilkes  supplied  fresh  and  fresh  topics  for 
the  journalist;  Lord  North's  Ministry  succeeded  that  of  the 
Duke  of  G-rafton,  with  changes  of  men  and  new  measures ;  then 

VOL.  II.  N  N 


646  APPENDIX. 

occurred  the  accident  of  the  controversy  of  Home  Tooke  with 
Junius  ;  lastly,  came  the  prosecution  of  Woodfall  and  other 
publishers  of  the  Letters  of  Junius,  and  which  legal  proceedings 
then  engaged  the  writer  in  attacks  on  Lords  Camden  and 
Mansfield.  Such  unforeseen  circumstances  and  attractions,  if 
any  'plan '  had  been  designed,  would  necessarily  act  as  disturbing 
influences,  interfering  with  any  regularly  formed  projected  order 
or  original  scheme  of  the  author.  Moreover,  the  private  letters 
of  Junius  to  Woodfall  and  Mr.  Wilkes  demonstrate  not  only 
that  the  writer  was  constantly  in  his  election  of  subjects  un- 
designedly influenced  in  their  selection,  but  that  he  at  times  in- 
tended to  drop  further  contributions  long  before  they  ceased. 
It  has  been  also  before  observed  that  his  ultimate  abandonment 
of  his  greater  name  and  his  Junius  signature,  and  the  com- 
mencement of  letters  under  other  signatures,  addressed  to  Lord 
Barrington  singly,  must  have  originated  in  some  fresh  cause,  or 
later  occurrences  personal  to  himself.  His  entire  political  writings 
of  five  or  six  years'  duration,  considered  as  a  whole,  must  there- 
fore be  viewed  as  miscellaneous,  and  really  in  the  main  as  un- 
premeditated compositions.  The  author  certainly  maintained 
a  higher,  more  laboured,  and  pompous  style,  when  using  the 
name  of  Junius ;  but  the  mass  of  letters  and  articles  under  his 
different  signatures  and  disguises  were  for  the  most  part  inter- 
mittent and  originating  in  the  passing  temporary  political  oc- 
currences of  the  period.  Many  letters  also,  indisputably  from 
the  same  pen,  are  unequal  in  interest,  style,  and  force  ;  though 
all  more  or  less  marked  by  the  same  pungent  irony  and  witty 
sarcasm.  Indeed  those  characteristics  of  mind  seem  to  have 
been  the  superior  and  more  ingenious  powers  of  his  mind. 
Irony,  sarcasm,  powers  of  attack  and  of  clever  quick  self-defence 
were  ever  ready  to  his  hand  ;  and  no  fishwoman  could  excel  him 
in  personal  vituperation.  He  was  a  master  of  political  per- 
sonalities, and  his  ingenuity  when  exposed  to  be  in  the  wrong 
was  equally  one  of  his  eminent  characteristics  as  a  political  con- 
troversialist. An  old  special  pleader  protecting  a  defendant  in 
the  wrong  could  not  more  artfully  sham,  plead,  or  raise  better 
false  issues. 

Now,  if  Junius  survived  the  publication  of  his  letters,  and 
engaged  in  after  public  life  and  political  writing  does  it  not  follow 
there  should  be  discovered  a  sequence  from  the  same  pen  in 
political  compositions  of  the  precise  style  and  general  character? 


APPENDIX.  647 

The  morality  of  political  controversy  became  improved.     Per- 
sonalities which  disgraced  the  political  prose  and  poetry  of  the 
eighteenth  century  much  declined  at  its  close  and  still  further 
lessened  in  the  eighteenth  century.     Political  science  reared  its 
taller  head.     The  principles  of  government,  and  measures  not 
men,  were  more  discussed.    Political  economy  became  a  science 
and  more  interested  public  writers.     Legislatorial  discussions 
also    became    less   vulgar   and    personal    than   aforetime — the 
standard  of  political  and  literary  writing  was  raised.     Such  a 
social   progress  would  be  inconsistent  with  the  reproduction  by 
Junius  of  any  such  compositions  as  his  early  defective  though 
memorable  letters.      Moreover,  the   style  of  political   writers 
became  more  natural  and   pure — not  only  less  personal  and 
coarse,  but  less  ornate  and  more  simple.     The  great  literary  de- 
fect of  Junius   was  the  '  polish '  in  his  style,  a  manipulation 
which  has,  however,  been  commonly  considered  its  peculiar  merit 
and  superiority.      Junius,  therefore,  might  live   nearly  half  a 
century  afterwards,  and  yet  not  practise  the  same  overworked 
style  or  offensive  peculiarities  as  a  controversalist.     Junius  un^ 
doubtedly  reappears  with  many  of  his  characteristics,  but  com- 
paratively as  a  subdued,  if  not  a  weakened  writer.     If  works  of 
the  same  class  remain  to  be  discovered,  other  than  the  Junius 
and  miscellaneous  Letters  of  Junius  recorded  in  the  Wood  fall 
complete  edition  of  1812,  they  should  be  sought  for  before  1767 
rather  than  after  1773. 

So  far  the  conclusions  to  be  drawn  from  the  avowed  public 
Letters  of  Junius — from  such  '  miscellaneous  letters '  as  are 
unquestionably  the  production  of  Junius — and  from  the  private 
letters  of  Junius  to  Mr.  Woodfall. 

There  are  other  and  equally  important  sources  of  evidence, 
made  public  during  the  last  few  years,  which  supply  singular 
and  corroborative  proofs  of  the  station  in  life  and  personal  motives 
of  Junius. 

Junius  voluntarily  wrote  and  sent  three  private  and  con- 
fidential letters  to  Lord  Chatham  and  Mr.  George  Grrenville ; 
two  to  the  former,  and  one  to  the  latter.  The  first  in  date, 
2nd  January,  1768,  was  marked  on  the  posted  envelope,  '  Private 
and  Secret :  to  be  opened  by  Lord  Chatham  only.'  This  letter, 
it  is  remarkable,  was  written  a  year  before  the  commencement 
of  his  public  letters  under  the  signature  of  Junius.  The  con- 
text and  spirit  of  this  letter,   written  not  for   publicity   but 

HN  2 


548  APPENDi:Jt. 

simply  to  give  Lord  Chatham  some  political  information,  clearly 
shows  that  the  writer  was  not  in  the  Cabinet — that  he  was  in  no 
prominent,  if  any,  Government  situation.  He  prefaces  his 
communication  by  the  simple  and  expressive  averment,  '  I  have 
an  opportunity  of  knowing  something,  and  you  may  depend  on 
my  veracity.'  If  this  sentence  was  artless,  and  not  intended  as 
a  blind  (and  there  is  no  apparent  motive  for  any  false  or  artful 
observation  of  the  kind,)  it  is  a  distinct  admission  that  Junius, 
then  signing  with  the  initial  C,  by  his  personal  situation  had 
not  the  '  opportunity  '  of  knowing  everything — that  is,  that  he 
was  outside  the  circle  of  men  fully  politically  informed.  The 
special  endorsement  on  his  letter,  of  its  privacy  and  secrecy, 
denotes  that  the  writer  had  some  special  and  personal  reasons 
why  he  desired  his  communication  to  be  to  '  Lord  Chatham 
only.' 

Ten  months  afterwards,  or  the  date  20th  October,  1768, 
Junius  (using  no  signature  or  even  initial,)  writes  a  letter  to 
Mr.  Greorge  Grrenville,  enclosing  to  him  one  of  his  well- 
known  early  miscellaneous  letters  under  the  signature  'Atticus.' 
This  letter  is  invaluable  as  a  clue  to  the  pursuits,  labour  or 
leisure,  and  objects,  of  the  writer  (afterwards  Junius).  Unless 
all  his  indirect  and  apparently  undesigned  mentions  of  him- 
self are  false  and  fictitious,  as  most  improbable,  because  ob- 
jectless as  such,  this  letter  proves  Junius  at  this  period  not  to 
have  been  a  paid  or  hired  public  writer.  He  described  his 
enclosed  letter  of  Atticus  as  a  production  '  finished  with  more 
care  than  1  have  usually  time  to  give  to  such  'productions.'' 
The  latter  part  of  the  sentence  clearly  indicates  that  journalism 
was  not  his  common  vocation,  and  that  his  time  was  otherwise 
occupied.  The  writer  then  assures  Mr.  Grrenville  '  that  no  man 
living  suspects  the  author.'  The  literal  truth  of  this  assertion 
is  manifest  in  the  fact  that  for  half  a  century  afterwards,  even 
if  known,  Junius  remained  unknown.  His  next  assertion  is, 
that  he  had  '  no  connection  with  any  party,  except  a  voluntary 
attachment  to  your  cause  and  person.'  This  freedom  from  all 
party  advocacy  or  influence  was  singularly  manifested  through- 
out the  whole  of  the  acknowledged  and  known  of  the  anonymous 
writings  of  Junius.  Indeed  such  independence  of  party,  in  so 
industrious  and  voluminous  a  writer,  not  only  peculiarly  dis- 
tinguished Junius  from  all  other  political  writers  of  his  day 
but  it  is  a  rare  quality  in  any  political  writer  of  any  age.    This, 


APPENDIX.  ,  649 

therefore,  is  his  second  assertion,  proven  to  be  literally  true. 
The  writer  therefore  is  entitled  to  some  credit,  when  he  im- 
mediately afterwards  volunteers,  for  no  purpose  of  imposition  on 
Mr.  Grenville,  a  singular  confession  of  the  motives  and  origin  of 
his  contributions  to  the  Press.  He  says  that  his  political  author- 
ship '  began  with  amusement,  grew  into  habit,  was  confirmed 
by  a  closer  attention  to  your  principles  and  conduct,  and  is  now 
heated  into  passion.'  This  assertion  is  consistent  with  his  pre- 
vious proud  assertion  of  disinterestedness,  and  in  which  spirit 
he  had  also  addressed  Lord  Chatham.  The  sentence  also  ac- 
curately agrees  with  the  idea  of  Mr.  Woodfall,  his  subsequent 
publisher,  that  Junius  had  been  some  time  a  contributor  to  his 
journal  under  various  signatures.  Junius,  in  this  letter  to  Mr. 
Grenville,  further  says,  '  The  Grand  Council  was  mine,  and  I 
may  say,  with  truth,  almost  everything  that  for  two  years  past 
has  attracted  the  attention  of  the  public'  He  further  consis- 
tently describes  himself,  as  -a  man  who  writes  absolutely  without 
materials  or  instruction.'  This  singularly  candid  and  uncalled- 
for  avowal  is  therefore  the  more  probably  a  true  report  of  his  isola- 
tion from  political  channels  of  information,  and  from  the  society 
of  leading  public  statesmen,  but  it  was  not  likely  to  find  favour 
with  Mr.  Grrenville,  the  recipient  of  an  anonymous  letter  from  a 
stranger.  The  whole  letter  also  is  evidence  that  the  writer  and 
Mr.  G-renville  were  not  intimate,  even  if  personally  known  to 
each  other.  The  former  expresses  a  desire  to  advocate  the 
political  plans  and  interest  of  the  latter,  but  says  that  he  lacks 
hints  and  promptings.  Not  only,  therefore,  if  this  state  of 
Junius'  personal  isolation  from  the  opposition  leaders  be  true, 
was  he  not  then  in  any  personal  access  to  Mr.  Grenville,  but  he 
certainly,  by  his  meaning,  could  not  have  been  in  any  indirect 
communication  with  Mr.  Grenville's  friends  or  party.  If  the 
fact  had  been  otherwise,  what  could  have  been  the  possible 
object  of  his  letter  to  that  gentleman?  Junius  distinctly  says: 
'  Until  you  are  Minister  I  must  not  permit  myself  the  honour 
of  being  known  to  you.'  The  sentence  following  this  extract 
indicates  a  latent  intention  of  claiming  some  reward  for  his 
devotion  to  Mr.  Grenville :  '  When  that  happens,  you  will  not 
find  me  a  needy  or  a  troublesome  dependent.'  He  concludes 
as  follows :  '  In  the  mean  time,  I  must_  console  myself  with 
reflecting  that,  by  resisting  every  temptation  of  vanity,  and 
even  the  great  desire  I  have  of  being  honoured  with  your 


650  APPENDIX. 

notice,  I  give  you  some  assurance  that  you  may  depend  upon 
my  firmness  and  fidelity  hereafter.' 

The  natural  influence  from  this  apparently  truthfal  letter  is, 
that  the  writer  was  calculating  on  Mr.  Grenville's  early  return 
to  office;  and  that  besides  the  conscientious  advocacy  of  the 
ex-Premier's  political  interest  the  writer  was  not  unnaturally 
laying  claim  to  a  participation  in  the  future  sweets  of  some 
secondary  office,  or  an  official  berth  better  than  one  he  may  have 
then  enjoyed.  Certainly  if  a  man  of  the  conscious  powers  of 
Junius  was,  when  composing  his  letters,  in  any  subordinate 
office,  he  might  well  have  indulged  in  the  hope  and  just  claim  of 
future  advancement.  He  might  be  and  probably  was  no  'needy 
or  troublesome  dependent ;'  but  by  this  suspicious  allusion  to 
sinister  objects  (not  repudiated  by  his  peculiar  mention  of  future 
place),  Junius  evidentlj'  had,  or  may  have  had,  an  eye  to  future 
advancement  on  his  own  account.  The  object  and  expected 
gain  of  office  may,  and  probably  was,  one  of  the  incentives  of  his 
laborious  works.  The  public  press  had  then  long  been  a  re- 
cognised ladder  of  ascent  to  State  employment.  It  ought,  within 
bounds,  and  honourable  use  of  it,i  large  modern  powers,  to  be  so; 
England  and  France  have  been  successively  ministerially 
governed  by  professors  of  journalism.  Bishops  and  Judges 
without  end  have  gained  their  political  positions  by  their  talent 
of  public  writing  as  well  as  by  eloquence.  In  the  eighteenth 
century  the  press  had  become  a  fourth  estate  of  our  consti- 
tutional form  of  government,  and  by  Mr.  Fox's  Libel  Act  the 
liberty  of  the  press  has  been  established. 

On  the  14th  of  January,  1772,  Junius  addressed  a  second 
letter  to  Lord  Chatham,  in  his  own  and  invariable  handwriting. 
The  subject  was  on  the  argument  and  proof-sheets  of  his  letter 
to  Lord  Mansfield ;  its  object  was  to  induce  Lord  Chatham  to 
move  an  impeachment  of  the  Lord  Chief  Justice.  This  letter 
was  marked  '  Most  Secret,'  and  it  expressed  an  implicit  reliance 
on  the  known  honour  of  the  noble  Earl.  This  volunteered 
communication  contained  a  special  mention  (whether  true  or 
false)  of  his  own  condition  in  private  life :  '  Eetired  and  un- 
known, I  live  in  the  shade,  and  have  only  a  speculative  amhi- 
twn.'  The  latter  peculiar  assertion  is  apparently  a  repetition 
of  the  same  description  of  his  own  '  order,'  which  he  had  indi- 
rectly conveyed  to  Mr.  Grrenville  (two  years  previously),  that 
though  not  an  adventurer  he  might  nevertheless  have  hopes  of 


APPENDIX.  6S1 

prospective  self-advantage.  At  least  no  other  sense  can  be  ex- 
tracted from  an  otherwise  ambiguous  and  senseless  expression. 

One  certain  and  important  deduction  results  from  this  letter, 
almost  at  the  close  of  the  career  of  Junius,  viz.  that  Lord  Chat- 
ham must  have  been  wholly  ignorant  of  the  identity  of  his 
correspondent;  unless  he  was,  as  has  been  contended,  Junius 
himself !  But  this  positive  and  repeated  consistent  statement 
of  his  inferior  or  middle  class  status,  is  further  confirmed  by  a 
similar  intermediate  assertion  to  the  same  exact  effect  in 
another  private,  and  a  fourth  anonymous  correspondence  with 
Mr.  Wilkes.  Junius  voluntarily  commenced  the  anonymous 
epistolary  communications  which  passed  between  them ;  and  to 
Wilkes  only  did  Junius  (so  far  as  documentary  proofs  exist) 
open  his  mind  and  political  plans  freely  and  confidentially. 
The  private  letters  between  Junius  and  Wilkes  thus  supply 
most  important  clues  to  the  probable  private  position  of  Junius, 
and  to  his  political  ends  in  view  as  a  public  writer.  His  account 
of  himself  to  Wilkes  may  or  may  not  be  wholly  true  ;  but  cor- 
roborated, as  many  of  his  autobiographical  statements  to  Wilkes 
certainly  are,  by  other  direct  and  indirect  evidences,  his  general 
representations  to  Wilkes  are  remarkably  consistent  with  and 
confirmatory  of  his  similar  private  averments  to  Woodfall  and 
Lord  Chatham.  Junius,  in  his  first  letter  to  Wilkes,  dated 
London,  21st  August,  1771,  explains  that  his  unexpected  and 
voluntary  letter  to  him  was  exclusively  occasioned  by  his  desire 
to  uphold  for  the  public  weal  Wilkes'  position — that  the  cause 
of  the  nation  was  his  sole  cause  of  that  private  communication. 
He  disclaims  any  sinister  or  personal  motive  of  his  own,  but  he 
counsels  Wilkes  not  to  scrutinize  motives.  Then  follows  an 
after  peculiar  passage  in  the  letter :  viz. — '  With  regard  to  me. 
Sir,  any  refinement  in  this  way  would  assuredly  mislead  you ; 
and  though  I  do  not  disclaim  the  idea  of  some  personal  views 
to  future  honour  and  advantage  (you  would  not  believe  me  if 
I  did),  yet  I  can  truly  affirm,  that  neither  are  they  little  in 
themselves,  nor  can  they  by  any  possible  conjecture  be  collected 
from  Tuy  writings.'  This  incidental  and  almost  indiscreet 
admission  of  future  personal  gain  in  the  arena  of  politics,  bears 
the  stamp  of  sincerity  and  truth  :  if  an  untrutti,  a  more  unne- 
cessary and  damaging  confession  could  not  have  been  made. 

In  this  letter,  chiefly  of  counsel  and  advice  to  Wilkes  on  his 
policy  in  the  City  Municipal  Corporation,  Junius  again  truly 


652  APPExNDIX. 

or  falsely  makes  allusion  to  his  own  private  position  in  society : 
'  I  offer  you  the  sincere  opinion  of  a  man,  who,  perhaps,  has 
more  leisure  to  make  reflections  than  you  have,  and  who, 
though  he  stands  clear  of  biisiness  and  intrigue,  mixes  suffi- 
ciently, for  the  purposes  of  intelligence,  in  the  conversation  of 
the  world.'  This  account  of  his  limited  means  of  knowledge  of 
political  intrigues  among  leading  public  men,  it  will  doubtless 
be  perceived,  is  again  singularly  consistent  with  his  request  for 
hints  and  private  information  from  Mr.  Grenville,  and  of  the 
similar  representation  of  his  occupying  a  private  or  commoner's 
position,  which  Junius  also  made  to  Lord  Chatham. 

In  a  subsequent  letter  to  Wilkes  (7th  September,  1771), 
Junius  speaks  of  the  noble  possessors  of  close  boroughs  in 
terms  no  member  of  the  aristocracy  would  use.  He  was 
justifying  his  own  praise  of  Lord  Chatham  as  a  eulogy,  ••  nobly 
deserved,'  and  was  paid  by  him  because  he  '  should  be  glad  to 
mortify  those  contemptible  creatures  who  call  themselves 
Noblemen,  whose  worthless  importance  depends  entirely  upon 
their  influence  over  boroughs,  &c.'  In  this  private  letter, 
there  is  another  sentence  which  is  indirectly  an  admission  of 
personal  advantage,  but  not  for  his  political  services  as  the 
great  anonymous  writer :  he  says,  '  As  Junius  I  can  never 
expect  to  be  rewarded.  The  secret  is  too  important  to  be 
committed  to  any  great  man's  discretion.  If  views  of 
interest  or  ambition  could  tempt  me  to  betray  my  own  secret, 
how  could  I  flatter  myself  that  the  man  I  trusted  would 
not  act  upon  the  same  principles,  and  sacrifice  me  at  once  to 
the  King's  curiosity  and  resentment  ?  Speaking  therefore,  as 
a  disinterested  man,  I  have  a  claim  to  your  attention.'  This 
allusion  to  a  possible  '  sacrifice,'  of  him  to  the  king's  '  resent- 
ment,' if  his  identity  was  discovered,  in  the  context  of  its 
meaning  may  imply  that  Junius  had  some  social  position  and 
pecuniary  interests  he  might  lose  by  detection.  The  same 
letter  contains  an  incidental  but  curious,  and  probably  un- 
designed, allusion  to  his  private  and  social  habits.  On  the 
'  domestic  society,'  which  Wilkes  had  described  as  most  agree- 
able to  himself,  Junius  observes,  '  I  fancy  I  should  like  it  still 
better  than  you  do.  I  too  am  no  enemy  to  good  fellowship, 
and  have  often  cursed  that  canting  parson,'  for  wishing  to  deny 

'  Home. 


APPENDIX.  653 

you  your  claret.  It  is  for  /lim,  aud  men  like  him,  to  beware  of 
intoxication.  Though  I  do  not  place  the  little  pleasures  of  life 
in  competition  with  the  glorious  business  of  instructing  and 
directing  the  people,  yet  I  see  no  reason  why  a  wise  man  may 
not  unite  the  public  virtues  of  Cato,  with  the  indulgence  of 
Epicurus.'  Probably  this  confession  of  sociality  of  disposition, 
and  an  appreciation  of  pure  claret  occasionally,  really  distin- 
guished Junius  at  home  and  abroad.  It  is  certainly  not  the 
confession  of  an  ascetic  or  of  a  teetotaller. 

Another  portion  of  this  correspondence  again  indicates  the 
commoner  station  of  Junius.  Wilkes,  in  a  private  letter  to  him, 
25th  September,  1771,  had  expressed  a  hope  that  Junius 
approved  his  then  recent  address  to  the  Livery  of  London. 
Wilkes,  in  that  address,  had  scornfully  alluded  to  the  '  tardy 
tribute  of  praise  to  the  persecuted  patriots '  by  the  '■great  men ' 
who,  when  the  City  and  the  Nation  had  declared  in  favour  of 
the  Sheriffs,  'joined  the  public  cry,'  and  'thronged  to  the 
Tower'  to  pay  their  respects  to  the  imprisoned  magistrates. 
'  Wilkes  sarcastically  intimated  that  the  people,  obliged  to  do 
their  own  business,  may  always  be  sure  of  the  concurrence  and 
applause  of  the  greaV  Now,  if  Junius  had  been  one  of  the 
'  great '  who  crowded  to  the  prison  of  the  King's  Bench,  he 
would  scarcely  have  responded  to  these  sentiments  of  Wilkes, 
in  his  answer  of  the  16th  October,  as  follows:  'Nothing  can 
be  more  true  than  what  you  say  about  great  men.  They  are 
indeed  a  worthless,  pitiful  race.  Chatham  has  gallantly  thrown 
away  the  scabbard,  and  never  flinched.  From  that  moment  I 
began  to  like  him.'  Would  Lord  Chatham  have  privately 
penned  this  qualified  praise  of  himself?  Would  the  Duke  of 
Portland,  Earl  Temple,  Earl  Shelburne,  Lord  Camden,  Lord 
Chesterfield,  or  Lord  Littleton,  (to  all  of  whom  these  letters  of 
Junius  have  been  severally  ascribed),  have  thus  written  of 
themselves,  or  of  their  fellow  '  great  ? '  In  this  letter  Junius 
alludes  to  his  difference  with  Wilkes  and  the  supporters  of  the 
Bill  of  Eights,  on  the  subject  of  Pressing.  For  a  friend  of 
liberty,  an  advocate  of  popular  rights,  especially  at  such  a 
period,  the  opinion  of  Junius  in  favour  of  Impressment  was  a 
singular  and  exceptional  sentiment.  His  argument,  under  the 
original  signature  of  Philo  Junius,  was — that  though  an  un- 
doubted evil,  he  defended  it  on  the  broad  principle  that  it 
was  the  duty  of  a  government  to  provide  for,  at  least  not  to 


554  APPENDIX. 

hazard,  the  safety  of  the  community;  but  that  he  would  gladly 
see  a  remedy  by  the  substitution  of  some  other  plan  of  recruit- 
ing. This  adhesion  to  the  unpopular  practice  of  Press  Gangs 
was  natural  if  Junius  was  in  the  Army,  or  connected  with  our 
military  departments.  As  such  an  indication  this  observation 
is  to  be  remarked. 

In  a  following  letter  to  Wilkes,  Junius,  21st  October,  1771, 
abjures  the  character  of  a  '  party-man.'  In  his  next  communi- 
cation, 6th  November,  urging  Wilkes  to  procure  him  copies  of 
the  information  against  Eyre,  he  casually  states  some  further 
particulars  of  himself.  In  the  concluding  part  of  the  private 
note  he  begs  Wilkes  to  assure  Dr.  Lee,  with  whom,  on  some 
points  of  our  differences  with  our  Transatlantic  colonies,  he  had 
differed,  'that  to  my  heart  and  understanding  the  names  of 
American  and  Englishman  are  synonymous,  and  that  as  to  any 
future  taxation  of  America,  I  look  upon  it  as  near  to  impos- 
sible as  the  highest  impossibility  can  be.'  He  adds  this  account 
of  his  isolated  situation,  so  far  as  the  necessary  secrecy  he  was 
forced  or  chose  to  practise: — '  I  hope  that,  since  he  (Dr.  Lee) 
has  opposed  me  where  he  thinks  me  wrong,  he  will  be  equally 
ready  to  assist  me  when  he  thinks  me  right.  Besides  the  falli- 
bility natural  to  us  all,  no  man  writes  under  so  many  disad- 
vantages as  I  do.  I  cannot  consult  the  learned  ;  I  cannot 
directly  ask  the  opinion  of  my  acquaintance ;  and  in  the  news- 
papers I  never  am  assisted.  Those  who  are  conversant  with 
books  well  know  how  often  they  mislead  us,  when  we  have  not 
a  living  monitor  at  hand  to  assist  us  in  comparing  practice  with 
theory.' 

This  concludes  his  confidential  correspondence  with  Wilkes, 
so  far  as  known  ;  and  the  first  publicity  of  it  was  by  Mr.  H.  S. 
Woodfall  (son  of  the  original  publisher  of  the  public  Letters  of 
Junius),  in  his  new  edition  of  Junius  in  1812. 

Junius  subsequently,  through  the  intervention  of  Woodfall, 
enlisted  Wilkes  in  the  editorship  of  the  first  authorised  edition 
of  Junius  (1772).  On  the  8th  Nov.,  1771,  by  a  private  letter, 
8th  Nov.,  1771,  Junius  directs  Woodfall  to  'show  the  Dedi- 
cation and  Preface  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  and  if  he  has  any  matenal 
objection,  let  me  know.  I  say  material,  because  of  the  diffi- 
culty of  getting  your  letter.'  Oq  the  10th  instant,  by  another 
note  to  Woodfall,  he  urges  him  :  '  Prevail  upon  Mr.  Wilkes  to 
let  you  have  extracts  of  my  second  and  third  letters  to  him.     It 


APPENDIX.  655 

■will  make  the  book  still  more  new.  I  would  see  them  before 
they  are  printed,  but  keep  this  last  to  yourself.'  On  the  outside 
of  this  note  was  marked  the  official  superscription,  '  Private 
and  Particular.'  All  these  accumulative  natural  statements 
about  himself  and  his  habits,  throughout  his  entire  correspon- 
dences, indicate  some  higher  or  inferior  ofBcial  situation  under 
government,  or  in  the  diplomacy. 

Wilkes,  there  is  every  reason  to  believe,  lived  and  died  in 
perfect  ignorance  of  the  personal  identity  of  his  mysterious  cor- 
respondent. This  utter  ignorance  is  almost  undeniable,  as 
between  1776  and  1784,  he  passed  some  time  with  Mr.  Butler 
in  endeavours  to  discover,  if  practicable,  the  unknown  author. 
The  labour  was  in  vain.' 

The  private  correspondence  of  Junius  with  Wilkes  demon- 
strates another  remarkable  fact — that  the  writer  ofg,he  Letters 
of  Junius,  whoever  he  might  be,  had  an  intimate  knowledge 
of  the  dramatis  personce  of  the  City  of  London  Corporation-  - 
at  least,  of  the  City  biography  and  characters  of  the  aldermen 
of  London.  Those  personages  played  an  important  and  con- 
spicuous part  in  the  political  drama  of  the  times.  Alderman 
Beckford,  in  fortune  and  hard-headed  qualities  of  public  and 
private  life,  and  as  a  man  of  large  fortune,  was  in  front  of  the 
stage  and  the  political  battle  ;  and  being  also  a  member  of  the 
House  of  Commons.  But  Junius,  in  his  correspondence  and 
amicable  differences  with  Wilkes,  displayed  such  a  full  know- 
ledge of  the  men  who,  under  Wilkes,  played  second  parts,  that 
no  noble  claimant  to  the  authorship  of  the  Junius'  Letters  could 
probably,  from  his  higher  station  of  society,  have  had  without  im- 
mediate means  of  discovery  by  Wilkes.  Junius  knew  thoroughly 
the  parts  and  personal  characteristics  of  Sawbridge,  Crosby, 
Bridgen,  Townsend,  Sir  Joseph  Mawbey,  and  the  smaller  fry 
of  the  Common  Council.  The  identification  of  any  particular 
individual  with  the  authorship  of  the  Letters  of  Junius  must 
reconcile  this  intimate  knowledge  of  Junius  with  these  con- 
spicuous personages  of  the  municipal  and  political  body  of  the 
Corporation  and  City  of  London.  Lords  Chatham,  Kockingham, 
and  Temple,  had,  of  course,  a  certain  party  knowledge  of  these 
middle-class  and  City  public  men.  But  Junius  displays  a  much 
commoner  intimacy  with  their  individual  characteristics — with 

1  Butler's  '  Eeminiscences.'  vol.  i.  p.  78  et  seg. 


656  APPENDIX, 

their  comparative  talents  for  political  agitation,  and  with  their 
several  selfish  objects  of  municipal  exaltation.  The  object  of  the 
first  voluntary  letter  of  Junius  to  Wilkes  was  in  August  1771,  to 
persuade  Wilkes  to  support  Sawbridge  for  the  Mayoralty  of  the 
City  against  Townsend.  Junius  describes  Sawbridge  as  '  a  man 
of  unquestionable  probity,'  though  perhaps  not  of  pliancy  suf- 
ficient for  the  purposes  of  Wilkes.  Sawbridge  was  descended 
from  a  Kentish  family  of  county  standing.  He  had  been  sheriff 
of  London,  with  Townsend,  and  had  been  mainly  instrumental 
in  the  return  of  Wilkes  to  Parliament ;  and  he  had  supported 
Wilkes  in  defiance  of  resolutions  of  the  House  of  Commons. 
Of  the  character  of  Crosby,  Junius  shows  equal  intuition.  Crosby 
was  early  in  life  an  attorney  in  Cumberland,  who  afterwards 
settled  in  the  City  of  London  as  a  solicitor.  He  had  been  Lord 
Mayor  of  |iOndon  in  1770,  and  as  a  magistrate,  committing  to 
Newgate  the  Sergeant-at-Arms  of  the  House  of  Commons  for 
executing  a  warrant  of  that  House,  arresting  the  persons  of 
several  printers,  citizens  of  London,  he  had  himself  been  com- 
mitted to  the  Tower,  with  Alderman  Oliver,  by  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, and  on  the  expiration  of  the  session  liberated  by  habeas 
corpus.  But  Junius  exhibits  not  only  a  knowledge  of  the  public, 
butof  the  private  character  of  a  corporator  who  had  married  three 
wives  with  a  gross  fortune  of  200,000L  Of  the  low  character 
of  Bridgen,  Junius  was  also  thoroughly  informed,  as  another 
letter  to  Wilkes  demonstrates.  Now,  this  knowledge  of  City  men 
was  not  an  acquisition  of  lords.  A  commoner  only  could  have 
gained  such  intimacy  with  the  characteristics  of  the  municipal 
body.  For  whom  has  such  a  knowledge  of  the  City  been 
pretended  among  the  claimants  to  the  authorship  of  Junius? 
Noble  lords — Lord  Temple  for  one — had  sought  and  suspended 
their  social  intimacy  with  Wilkes  according  to  the  ebb  and  flow 
of  his  popular  power,  and  their  own  interest  in  the  advance- 
ment of  the  demagogue's  power.  But  what  peer  or  commoner 
claims  this  knowledge  of  the  merits  and  demerits  of  the  City 
politicians  of  the  Junius  era  ? 

These  extracts,  from  the  private  and  public  letters  of  Junius 
so  far  are  the  principal  lights  on  his  autiobiography.  Undeni- 
ably they  are  scanty,  and  not  entitled,  unsupported,  to  any 
credence  approaching  confident  reliance.  His  paramount  pur- 
pose was,  to  blind  the  public,  his  publisher,  and  his  private 
correspondents — certainly  to    preserve   a    complete   incognito. 


APPENDIX.  557 

Many  passages  may  and  have  been  brought  forward  in  contra- 
diction of  some  of  these  extracted  '  hints '  on  his  station,  a^e, 
and  worldly  pursuits  and  objects;  but  the  selection  in  this 
chapter  is  impartial,  and  has  never  received  as  autobiographical 
matter  the  just  weight  it  deserved.  Separately,  some  state- 
ments of  Junius,  thus  extracted,  may  be  disentitled  to  credit ; 
but,  as  a  whole,  they  appear  to  be  the  safest  data  for  his  dis- 
covery. At  least  the  evidences  of  identity  in  after  pages  will 
test  their  reliability.  Many  of  the  statements  quoted  could  not 
on  his  part  have  been  designed  fictions.  It  is  scarcely  possible 
that  a  public  writer  of  such  voluminous  productions,  constantly 
during  a  period  of  six  or  more  years,  writing  under  so  many 
anonymous  signatures,  and  thus  corresponding  privately  by  letter 
with  several  public  persons,  should  not  in  the  .course  of  his 
divers  works  have  unavoidably,  unwittingly,  and  from  natural 
self-estimation  have  dropped  some  accidental  information  re- 
specting his  own  personality,  affording  clues  for  his  ultimate 
discovery.  Indeed,  the  fear  of  traces  of  his  identity  appears  to 
have  haunted  his  mind  more  or  less  from  1768  to  1773,  when  he 
closed  all  communication  with  his  publisher.  He  was  palpably 
in  constant  dread  lest  his  own  handwriting,  his  place  of  resi- 
dence, or  of  private  or  public  business,  his  own  person,  or  his 
messengers,  the  occasional  '  conveyancers  '  of  his  letter.s,  should 
be  tracked.  Had  Mr.  "Woodfall,  or  even  Mr.  Wilkes,  been 
untrue  to  him,  he  would  have  been,  in  all  human  probability, 
discovered.  In  his  last  year  of  authorship  he  doubtless  ran  the 
greatest  hazard.  If  his  letters  under  the  various  signatures  of 
Veteran,  Scotus,  Arthur  Tell-truth,  and  Nemesis,  for  instance, 
had  been  known  and  proved  to  have  been  by  one  and  the  same 
writer,  and  his  private  notes  to  Woodfall  inclosing  those  par- 
ticular letters  had  been  betrayed  to  the  government.  Lord 
Barrington  would  at  least  have  discovered  and  identified  his 
assailant.  The  fidelity  of  his  printer  and  his  correspondents 
alone  protected  him.  It  is  only  marvellous  that  he  escaped 
being  identified  during  the  later  progress  of  the  letters.  The 
enigma  of  his  fortunate  concealment  may  be  explained  by  his 
being  in  some  relation  to  the  public  administration,  or  especially 
of  the  War  Office,  on  which  suspicion  would  never  naturally 
alight.  Anonymous  letters  in  private  life,  it  is  well  known, 
have  often  ultimately  been  fixed  on  parties  ostensibly  the  least 
likely  to  have  written  them.     Juniu.s  was  alone  behind  his  own 


558  APPENDIX. 

scenes.  In  his  unsuspected  position  he  may  have  practised 
many  arts  to  direct  suspicion  away  from  himself,  or  even  to  fix  it  on 
others.'  We  know  that  he  practised  similar  and  repeated  devices 
in  his  public  letters,  and  he  has  been  suspected,  on  good  grounds, 
of  even  having  written  mock  replies  to  letters  of  Junius,  that  he 
might  thus  by  specious  arguments  confute  his  opponents,  and 
better  elaborate  his  own  reasoning.  The  letters  of  Pkilo  Juniuf:, 
as  those  of  Junius  himself,  were  long  unacknowledged.  He 
was  repeatedly  charged  with  changes  of  signature,  and  manifest 
disguises.  Contemporary  adversaries  indeed  fixed  upon  the 
authorship  of  letters  under  signatures  other  than  that  of  Junius 
Home  Tooke,  in  July  1771,  publicly  tells  him  that  he  had  then 
written  full  two  years  under  the  name  of  Junius,  'and  more 
under  otli6rs.\  The  same  acute  critic  says :  '  The  darkness  in 
which  Junius  thinks  himself  shrouded  has  not  concealed  him  ; 
nor  the  artifice  of  only  attaching  imder  that  signature  those  he 
would  pidl  down  (whilst  he  recommends  by  other  ways  those  he 
would  have  promoted),  disguised  from  me  whose  partisan  he 
was.'  The  italics  are  Home  Tooke's  own  marked  notes  of 
emphasis.  It  is  clear,  therefore,  that  this  extraordinary  mas- 
querader  must  have  probably  changed  his  vizor  more  frequently 
than  has  been  detected.  All  his  public  performances  could  not 
have  been  known,  although  occasionally  he  failed  in  some  at- 
tempts at  change  of  personation.  The  habit  of  anonymous  poli- 
tical writing,  so  peculiar  and  so  unprecedented,  may,  however, 
have  become  so  inveterate  in  the  real  individual  as  to  supply  a 
most  probable  clue  to  his  future  identity  as  Junius,  by  his  resort 
to  similar  disguises  in  after  life.  There  are  few  populous  com- 
munities in  which  there  are  not  individuals  with  fi.xed  and 
known  habits  of  anonymous  private  letter-writing.  Thus  Junius 
might  be  identified  by  his  use  of  the  same  description  of 
weapons,  though  differently  used,  in  other  political  contests. 
Anonymous  public  writing  was  the  general  practice  of  his  earlier 
period  of  life. 


INDEX. 


^DDINGTON mimstTj,  fall  of,  ii.  333 
'Advertiser,  The  Public,'  Francis's 
connection  with  it,  i.  69,  102,  212. 
Commentaries  on  Francis's  retire- 
ment from  the  War  OflBce,  276.  On 
the  debates  at  the  India  House  pre- 
vious to  his  going  out.  343 

Alhn,  Rev.  Mr.,  British  chaplain  at 
Lisbon,  i.  42.  Curious  letter  of 
Francis  to,  106.     To  Francis,  ii.  134 

Almon,  Eex  v.,  i.  86,  90.  'Political 
Eegister,'  159 

America,  policy  of  Grenville  and  other 
ministers,  Francis's  opinions  respect- 
ing, i.  104,  161,  260.  Letters  to 
Francis  from,  1767-1773.  Appendix, 
No,  X.  i.  Francis's  purchase  of  land 
in,  324.     Appendix,  No.  X.  i. 

Amherst,  Sir  Jeffrey,  his  deprival  of  the 
Government  of  Virginia,  i.  213 

'  Anti-Sejanus,'  whether  by  Francis, 
i.  131 

'  Autobiographical  Fragment,'  by  Fran- 
cis, Appendix,  I.  No.  i. 


JiAGGS,  Mai'or  Philip,  cousin  of  Fran- 
cis  (see  pedigree),  i.  247,  248,  253. 
His  duel  with  '  Fighting  Fitzgerald,' 
ii.  99.  Goes  to  Calcutta,  136.  Sent 
back  from  India,  180.  Whether  as 
an  agent  of  Francis,  206.  Death, 
302,  417  n. 

Baggs,  Eev.  Stephen,  i.269.  Lends  his 
name  to  Francis's  translation  of  Pin- 
to's '  Essay  on  Circulation,'  321 

Bqrrington,  Lord,  Secretary  at  War, 
J.  64,  105.  His  conduct  as  to  the 
riots  on  the  liberation  of  Wilkes,  189. 
His  political  character,  272.  His 
quarrel  with  Doyly  and  Francis,  273 ; 
ii.  532.  Letters  of  Veteran,  i.  276, 
His  relations  in  later  life  with  Fran- 


cis,   329.      Informs   Francis   of   his 
resignation,  ii.  160 
Barwtll,  W.,  appointed  on  the  Council  of 
Bengal,  i.  325.    Sides  with  Hastings, 
ii.  10,  31,  61.     Marriage,  31.   Fights 
Gen.   Clavering,   33.     Character,   by 
Francis,    62.     Losses   at    whist,   68. 
Negotiation      with      Francis,      111. 
Anxious     on    his    own    account    to 
reconcile   him   with   Hastings,    175. 
Goes  to  England,  188 
Bedford,  John,   fourth    Duke   of,    his 
party,  or  the  BJoomsbury  House  gang. 
Francis's  hostility  to,  i.  172.     Aflfair 
between  him   and  the  Bedford   cor- 
poration, 236.      John,  sixth  Duke  of, 
letter  from,  ii.  405.     Character,  452 
Bengal,  Francis's  opinion  of  the  people, 
ii.  45.     Scheme  for  '  perpetual  settle- 
ment' of    the    land- revenue,   ii,  70, 
348 
Berry,  the  Misses,  ii.  341,  365 
'  S;/'ro«s '  letters,  the,  i.  184,  192-196 
Bligh,  General,  Francis  accompanies  his 

expedition  to  Cherbourg,  i.  19-25 
Botetourt,  Lord,  i.  213. 
Boyd,  Hugh,  suspected  author   of  Ju- 
nius, i.  280 
Bradshaw,    Thomas,    i.    185.      Placed 
pro  tempore,  in  the  War  Office,  276. 
His  death,  329 
Breton,  General,  on  Napoleon's  projected 

invasion  of  England,  ii.  321 
Bristow,   John,   appointed   by  Francis 
resident  in   Oude,  ii.   32.     Recalled, 
73.     Goes  to  England,  121.     Returns 
to  India,  179 
Brougham,  Lord,  Character  of  Francis, 
in  his   'Statesmen,'  i.  348;  ii.  8,  351 
Browning,  Mi:.,  letter  from,  on  author- 
ship of  Junius,  ii.  404 
Burke,     Edmund,    i.  157.       Francis's 
hints  to  fix  on  him  the  authorship  of 


560 


INDEX. 


BUR 


DOY 


Junius,  220,  243.  First  acquaint- 
ance with  Francis,  340.  Letter  to, 
introducing  his  brotlier  William, 
ii.  103.  Opinion  of  Francis's  scheme 
for  settlement  of  the  Bengal  revenue, 
r2S.  His  eulogy  on,  in  1783,  221. 
Endeavours  to  maintain  Francis  on 
the  list  of  managers  of  the  impeach- 
ment, 238.  Correspondence  with 
Francis  on  the  Hastings'  proceed- 
ings, 245-264.  Difference  with  Fran- 
cis on  the  French  Eevolution,  280. 
Bisset'slifeofhim,  286 
Burke,  William,  goes  to  India,  ii.  101 
Bute,  Lord,  formation  of  his  second 
ministry,  1762, i.  59.  His  resignation, 
62 
Byron,  Lord,  supposed  to  have  been 
offended  by  Francis,  ii.  344 


riALCRATT,  John, hisconneotion  with 
Lord  Holland  and  character,  i.  1 3-1 6. 
Obtains  Francis's  appointment  to  ac- 
company General  Bligh's  expedition, 
23.  Quarrels  with  Lord  Holland, 
64.  Intimacy  with  Francis  in  1768, 
215.  His  partisanship  in  1770  for 
Lord  Chatham,  240,  261.  His  attach- 
ment to  Francis  ill  requited,  282. 
Character  of,  by  Francis,  284.  Ques- 
tion whether  he  was  pri\'y  to  the 
composition  of  .Junius,  discussed, 
287.  His  death,  310.  Codicils  to 
his  will  containing  beqxiests  to 
Francis,  317.  His  character,  by 
Francis,  359 

Camden,  Lord,  part  taken  by  him  on 
the  libel  question,  i.  94.  On  the 
embargo  proclamation,  1766,  126 

Camplidl.  Dr.,  author  of  the  '  Political 
Survey  of  Great  Britain,'  a  friend  of 
Francis,  i.  311 

'  Candor '  pamphlets,  Francis's  author- 
ship of,  i.  71-80,  99 

Canning,  G.,  letter  of  Francis  to,  ii. 
364.  Misunderstanding  with  Francis, 
409 

Cartwright,  Major,  letter  to,  ii.  366 

Chambers,  Sir  Robert,  Justice  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Bengal,  ii.  12. 
Differs  from  his  brethren  in  the  case 
of  Brand  v.  Francis,  142 

Chamier,  Anthony,  appointed  deputy- 
secretary  at  war,  273.  Particulars 
resppcting  him,  277 

Chdiiipiiiii,  Colonel,  transactions  with 
Hastings,  ii.  54 

Chandler,  George,  i.  204.  His  gene- 
rosity to  Francis,  346.     One  of  his    J 


trustees  during  his  absence  in  India, 
349 

'  Characteristics  of  theKingsof  England,' 
essay  by  Francis,  Appendix,  No.  III.  ii. 

Chatham,  Lord,  his  war  administration 
of  1767,  J.  18.  Employs  Francis  as 
occasional  amanuensis,  52.  Comment 
on  his  speech  of  Jan.  24, 1 766,  by  Anti- 
Sejanus,  110.  His  acceptance  of  a 
peerage  and  the  Privy  Seal,  118. 
Attacked  by  Francis  on  that  account, 
122.  Again  in  1767,  133-136.  His 
bodily  condition  at  the  end  of  1767, 
164.  170.  Francis  from  this  time 
ceases  to  attack  him,  174.  Attempts, 
promoted  by  Calcraft  and  Francis, 
to  make  him  premier  in  1770,  240. 
Review  of  his  policy  by  Francis,  357 

Cholwdl,  Mr.,  offered  Indian  council- 
lor.'ihip,  ii.  119 

Clavering,  General,  appointed  on  the 
Council  of  Bengal,  i.  325.  Appointed 
commander-in-chief  in  India,  344. 
Wants  to  fight  the  Duke  of  Rich- 
mond, 367-  Quarrels  with  and  fights 
Barwell,  ii.  33.  Hostility  between 
Francis  and  him,  43.  Made  K.C.B., 
86.  Unsuccessful  attempt  to  super- 
sede Hastings,  87.     Death,  94 

Cliw,  Lord,  i.  322.  Becomes  intimate 
with  Francis  on  the  latter's  appoint- 
ment to  India,  i.  331.  His  influence 
in  Indian  affairs,  332.     Death,  334 

Ctioc,  second  Lord,  i.  337 ;  ii.  42 

Clive,  Lady,  letter  to  Francis  by,  i.  335 

Callings,  Mr.,  ii.  25 

Conper,  Sir  Grey,  private  secretary  to 
Lord  North,  ii.  41,  85 

Coote,  Sir  Eyre,  his  arrival  in  Bengal, 
ii.  153.  Conduct  in  Council,  154- 
168.    Character,  169 

Cornwallis,  Lord,  ii.  70,  348 

Croker,  J.  W.,  his  article  in  the 
'Quarterly,'  attributing  Junius  to 
Lord  Lyttclton,  i.  284 


T^AY,  Sir  John,  Advocate-General  in 
India,  ii.  ch.  ii.  p.  129,  155.  His 
attempts  to  negotiate  between  Francis 
and  Hastiugs,  191 

Devonshire,  Duchess  of,  correspondence 
with,  ii.  306 

Devonshire,  Marchioness  of,  correspon- 
dence with,  ii.  ch.  v. 

Doyly,  Christopher,  appointed  Deputy 
Secretary-at-War,  1762,  i,  66.  His 
intimacy  with  Francis,  65,  167,  246. 
Resigns  his  office,  270.  AVas  he 
privy  to  the  composition  of  Junius? 


INDEX. 


661 


DRA 


294.  Eeturnpd  to  Parliament,  for 
Wareham,  345.  Trustee  of  Francis 
while  in  India,  349.  Under  Secre- 
tary in  the  American  department,  ii. 
43.  Francis  takes  offence  with  him, 
89.     Resignation,  133.     Death,  302 

Draper,  Sir  William,  early  acquaintance 
of  with  Francis,  i.  11.  Anonymous 
conflict  with  Francis  in  '  The  Public 
Advertiser,'  ITfiT,  142.  Junius  cor- 
respondence, and  personal  career  of, 
224,  227,  229 

Dubois,  Edward,  ii.  327.  Account  of 
him,  383  n. 

Ducarel,  M.,  friend  of  Lord  Clive,  and 
intimate  with  Francis  in  India,  ii. 
ch.  i.  ii.  Assists  in  his  minutes,  4. 
His  agent  in  reconciliation  with 
Hastings,  176 

Dundas,  Henry,  ii.  219 


'm}REMONT,  Lord,  Francis  under 
him  in  the  War  OfBce,  i.  59,  63 

Elliot,  Alexander,  goes  to  India,  1777. 
ii.  101.    Negotiates  for  Hastings,  116 

Elliot,  Gilbert  (first  Lord  Minto),  i. 
273 

Ellis,  Welbore,  appoints  Francis  first 
clerk  in  the  War  Ofiice,  i.  65.  Corre- 
spondent of  Francis  in  India,  ii.  26,  96 


TpALKLAND  Islands,  affair  of,  com- 
mented on  by  Junius  and  by  Francis, 
i.  248-263 

Fowke,  Francis,  resident  at  Benares,  ii. 
66.  Eecalled,  73.  Disputes  about 
his  reappointment,  182 

Fowl-e,  Joseph,  ii.  49,  64.  Account  of 
the  family,  ib.  Hostility  of  Hastings 
to  him,  182.  Francis  on  his  con- 
duct, 200 

Fox,  Charles,  correspondence  of,  with 
"The  Public  Advertiser,'  i.  255.  Said 
to  have  asked  for  an  Indian  cnun- 
cillorship  in  1779,  ii.  172.  India 
Bill,  220.  His  secession  from  Parlia- 
ment, 304.  Alleged  breach  of  faith 
with  Francis  as  to  the  governor- 
generalship,  352.  Francis's  opinion 
of  his  government,  363.  Character 
of.  Appendix,  No.  II.  ii. 

Francis,  Sir  Philip,  his  birth,  1740, 
and  parentage,  i.  1.  Education,  4- 
12.  Appointed  to  a  clerkship  in  the 
Secretary  of  State's  office,  13.  At- 
tached to  General  Bligh's  expedition 
to  Cherbourg,  19.  Secretary  to  Lord 
Kinnoul's   mission  to  Portugal,    26. 

VOL.  II.  0  0 


Returns  to  England,  48.  His  studies : 
occasicmal  amanuensis  to  Pitt  (Lord 
Chatham)  in  1760,  52.  Engagement 
and  marriage  with  Miss  Mackrabie, 
54-68.  First  clerk  in  the  War 
^  OfBce,  1762,  63.  His  first  connection 
with  the  Press,  67.  'Public Ledger,' 
69.  'Public  Advertiser,' 71.  His  use 
of  the  initial  C,  74.  The  'Candor' 
pamphlet,  74-80,  99.  Penmanship, 
84.  '  Enquiry  into  the  Doctrine  of 
Libels,'  85.  Approves  of  George 
Grenville's  American  policy,  104, 162, 
260.  Anti-Sejanus,  104,  130.  Cato 
Redivivus,  111.  Atticus,  112.  Let- 
ter to  the  Duke  of  Richmond,  119. 
Attacks  Lord  Chatham  on  his  accep- 
tance of  a  peerage,  1776,  121-124. 
His  life  in  Loudon  at  that  period, 
128,  130.  Lusitanicus,  132.  Onus- 
tus,  137.  Poplicola,  140.  Visit  to 
Flanders,  1767,  146.  'The  Grand 
Council,'  155.  His  work  in  the  War 
Office  at  this  time,  167.  His  op- 
portunities for  acquaintance  with  the 
interior  of  the  several  political  par- 
ties, 168.  First  anonymous  letter  to 
Lord  Chatham,  171.  To  George 
Grenville,  174.  Memnon,  177.  On 
the  affair  of  Wilkes,  180.  Attacks 
on  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  184.  'Bi- 
frons,'  186.  'Fiat  Justitia,'  189. 
Authorship  of  Junius,  reasons  for  as- 
cribing to  him,  197-201;  Appendix,  No. 
IV.  ii.  His  schemes  for  the  purchase 
of  land  in  America,  i.  204.  Proof  of 
his  connection  with  the  '  Advertiser ' 
in  1768,  217.  Second  anonymotis 
letter  to  Grenville,  214.  Illness,  218. 
His  suggestions,  ascribing  the  Junius 
letters  to  Burke,  220,  243.  Christ- 
mas visits  to  his  father  at  Bath,  222, 
254,  269.  Correspondence  between 
Junius  and  Sir  W.  Draper,  224.  His 
parliamentary  reporting,  238.  Aids 
Calcraft  in  the  serA'ice  of  Lord 
Chatham  after  the  Duke  of  Grafton's 
resignation,  240.  Use  of  the  post- 
office  for  sending  letters  to  the  news- 
paper, 242.  Absence  from  town  in 
the  summer  of  1770,  242-246.  His 
letter  to  Calcraft  on  the  courts  of 
justice,  247,  363.  His  political  and 
personal  interest  in  the  affair  of 
the  Falkland  Islands,  248-253,  358. 
Change  in  his  American  politics,  260. 
Illness,  March  1771,  260.  Impaired 
prospects,  262.  Tour  in  the  country, 
264.  Position  of,  in  the  War  Office, 
particularly  described,  273.  Quarrels 


5U2 


INDEX. 


witli  Lord  Barrington,  274.  Leaves 
the  War  Office  in  March  1772,  280. 
His  ingratitude  to  Calcraft,  282.  His 
■writings  in  1768-1770,  for  other  pa- 
pers besides  the  'Advertiser,'  299. 
Continental  tour  with  Godfrey,  1772, 
303-310,  364.  Interview  with  the 
Pope,  311.  Affectation  of  rakishness 
common  to  him  and  Junius,  316. 
Visits  Ingress,  after  the  death  of 
Calcraft,  317.  Visits  his  father  at 
Bath,  319.  Visits  the  Hagiie,  and 
translates  Pinto's  '  Essay  on  Circu- 
lation,' 321,  366.  His  appointment 
to  the  Council  of  Bengal,  1773,  324, 
367.  Supposed  causes  of  it,  325. 
Applications  to  him  for  Indian  patron- 
age, 328.  His  relations  with  Lord 
Barrington,  329-330.  Visits  Lord 
Clive  in  Shropshire,  331.  Pirst  cor- 
respondence with  Burke,  1773,  340. 
His  pecuniary  and  family  arrange- 
ments for  his  absence  in  India,  346, 
350.  Charged  with  parsimony,  how 
far  truly,  348.  Leaves  England,  361. 
His  fragment  of  Autobiography, 
Appendix,  No.  Li.  Complaints  of  the 
Instructions  under  the  Regulating 
Act,  368-  His  industry  in  writing, 
ii.  3.  Character  of,  by  Macaulay,  6. 
Pecuniary  disinterestedness,  7.  Voy- 
age to  India,  1774,  11-15.  'Hints 
for  his  own  conduct,'  16.  His  house 
and  establishment  in  India,  23.  Plan 
addressed  to  Lord  North  for  the 
government  of  India,  27.  His  con- 
duct in  the  matter  of  Nuncomar's 
trial,  35.  "Winnings  at  whist,  40, 
68.  Troubles  about  Indian  patron- 
age, 41.  Disagrees  with  Clavering,  43. 
'  Private  memorandum '  of  proceed- 
ings in  India,  44-64.  His  scheme 
for  the  '  perpetual  settlement '  of  the 
land  in  Bengal,  70,  125.  His  strag- 
gle with  Hastings  described,  80.  His 
'  Journal  in  India,'  83.  Aids  Claver- 
ing in  the  attempt  to  supersede 
Hastings,  1777,  87.  Difference  with 
Doyly,  89.  Letter  on  government 
uf  India,  98.  Correspondence  about 
W.  Burke,  103.  Intercourse  with 
Wheler,  117,  &c.  Increasing  for- 
lunc,  122.  Affair  with  Madame 
Grand,  and  action  against  by  her 
busband,  136-150.  Encouraged  by 
W.  Ellis  in  his  hopes  of  the  governor- 
generalship,  159,  192.  Temporary 
reconcilement  with  Hastings,  1779, 
175.  Final  breach,  192.  Duel,  198. 
Leaves  India;  detention  atSt.  Hilcna, 
1781,  202.    How  received  on  his  re- 


turn to  England,  203.  Anonymous 
writing,  205.  Edits  (presumedly), 
the  Booksellers'  edition  of  Junius, 
207.  Domesticlife,  and  income,  210. 
Cypher  used  by  him,  214.  Visits 
Lord  Barrington  at  Bocket,  217. 
Visit  to  Spa,  1783,  218.  To  Paris, 
ib.  Eeturned  to  the  House  of  Com- 
mons for  Yarmouth,  1784,  220. 
Speeches  on  Indian  affairs,  224. 
Character  as  a  speaker,  227.  Exclu- 
ded from  the  management  of  the  im- 
peachment of  Hastings,  238.  Visit 
to  Nice,  1786,  247.  To  Ireland,  1787, 
255.  Social  life  and  qualities,  265. 
Duelling  experiences,  267.  Keturned 
for  Blechingley,  279.  Opinions  on 
the  French  Revolution,  and  difference 
with  Burke,  280.  On  Parliamentary 
Reform,  289.  Style  as  a  writer,  292. 
Moves  to  St.  James's  Square,  294. 
Opposes  Fox's  secession,  and  corre- 
spondence on  it,  305.  Intimacy  with 
the  Thanets,  315.  Eeturned  for 
Appleby,  1802,  318,  Intimacy  with 
the  Prince  of  Wales,  319.  His  family 
affairs  and  losses,  338-344.  His 
disappointment  on  not  obtaining  the 
governor-generalship  of  Indiain  1800, 
350.  Made  a  KC.B.,  355.  Re- 
elected for  Appleby  in  1806,  357. 
Leaves  Parliament,  ib.  '  Thoughts 
on  the  Regency  Question,'  358. 
Opinion  on  the  conduct  of  the  Penin- 
sular war,  369.  Memorial  of  his 
claims,  addressed  to  the  Prince  of- 
AVales,  1812,  373.  On  missionary 
exertion  in  India,  375.  Second  mar- 
riage, 378.  His  conduct  when 
suspected  of  the  authorship  of  Junius, 
385-393.  Personal  peculiarities, 
394-400.  Table  talk,  403.  Last 
illness  and  death,  413.  Note  of  Mr. 
Parkes  on  his  religious  opinions,  418. 
Contents  of  his  Library,  Appendix, 
No.  I.  ii. 
Francis,  Dr.,  father  of  Sir  Philip,  his 
church  preferments,  i.  3.  His  esta- 
blishment at  Holland  House,  13.  His 
translation  from  the  classics,  1 7.  Op- 
poses and  resents  his  son's  marriage, 
58.  Writes  for  the  newspaper  press 
on  the  side  of  Lord  Bute,  61.  The 
'Political  Theatre,'  81.  Paralytic 
attack,  165.  Letters  to  his  son  re- 
specting Wilkes,  207.  Correspon- 
dence with  Calcraft  on  the  education 
of  his  son,  216.  Acquaintance  with 
Sir  W.  Draper,  224.  Return  of  ill- 
ness, 262.  Death,  320,  364.  His  re- 
marks on  Junius,  Appendix,  No.  IV.  i. 


INDEX. 


5G.3 


FRA 


Francis,  Catherine  (Mrs.  Cholmondeley), 
daughter  of  Sir  P.,  marriage  of,  ii. 
338 

Francis,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  P., 
her  death,  ii.  342 

Francis,  Harriet,  daughter  of  Sir  P.,  her 
death  at  Nice,  ii.  341 

Francis,  Mary  (Mrs.  Johnson),  daughter 
of  Sir  P.,  her  marriage,  ii.  298 

Francis,  Philip,  son  of  Sir  P.,  i.  351. 
Sent  to  Harrow,  ii.  69.  Letter  to 
Lord  Thanet,  334.  Marriage  and 
family,  338.  Eeception  at  the  Tuil- 
eries,  1802,  339.  Anecdote  of  him 
and  the  Prince  of  "Wales,  356 

Francis,  Tench  (see  pedigree),  i.  2,  31 

Francis,  Turbutt,  Colonel  in  American 
army  (see  pedigree),  i.  2.  His  corre- 
spondence with  Francis  respecting  the 
purchase  of  land  in  America,  245, 
324,  442,  &c. 


QARRIOK,  his  connection  with  '  The 
Public  Advertiser,'  i.  67.  Letter 
to  Woodfall,  292 
George  the  Third,  Junius's  address  to,  i. 
237.  Letter  to  Lord  North  on 
Francis's  application  for  office  in 
India,  325.  Story  of  his  words  to 
Gen.  Desaguliers,  326 

Georgre  the  Fourth  (Prince  of  Wales), 
marriage  withMrs.Pitzherbert,ii.  276. 
Intimacy  with  Francis,  319.  Kind- 
ness to  Francis  in  1806,  355 

Godfrey,  Daniel,  early  friend  of  Francis, 
i.  128,  266.  Accompanies  Francis  on 
his  continental  tour,  1772,  303.  One 
of  his  trustees  during  his  absence  in 
India;  correspondence  with,  ii.  ch. 
i.  ii. 

Grafton,  Dute  of,  becomes  First  Lord 
of  the  Treasury,  1766,  i.  116.  At- 
tacks on  him  by  'Bifrons,'  &c.,  184. 
Junius  on  his  marriage,  232.  His 
Chancellorship  of  Cambridge,  234. 
Break  up  of  his  ministry,  237.  Lord 
Privy  Seal,  263 

Grand,  M.  and  Madame,  afifair  with 
Francis,  ii.  136.  His  action,  141. 
Her  subsequent  history,  and  marriage 
with  Talleyrand,  142 

Grant,  Ahh^,  Francis's  ciceronein  Rome, 
i.  312 

Grant,  Charles,  ii.  4,  119 

Gravier,  David,  early  friend  of  Francis, 
i.  128.  Visits  Flanders  with  him  in 
1767,  146 

Grenville,  George,  Francis's  approval  of 
his  American  policy,  i.  102,  137,  161, 


250.  First  letter  of  C.  to,  201. 
Second,  214 

Grenville,  Lord,  i.  327.  His  reported 
knowledge  of  the  Junius  secret,  ii. 
354 

Grey,  Charles  (Lord),  motion  on  parlia- 
mentary reform,  ii.  289.  Letter  from 
Fox  to,  304 


jfJASTINGS,  Warren,  appointed  Go- 
vernor-general of  Bengal,  i.  325. 
Hostility  of  Lord  North's  councillors 
to  him,  ii.  9,  14,  20.  Rohilla  War, 
10,  52.  Sends  Maclean  to  tender  his 
resignation,  21.  Affair  of  Nuncomar, 
35.  Francis's  account  of  his  mode 
of  government  prior  to  1774,  47-  Of 
his  early  life  and  character,  58,  81. 
Recovers  a  majority  in  the  Council  by 
the  death  of  Monson,  72.  Defeats 
the  attempt  of  Clavering  and  Francis 
to  supersede  him,  87.  Marries  Mrs. 
Imhoff,  92.  His  alleged  intrigues 
on  the  arrival  of  Wheler,  113.  His 
opinion  on  the  government  of  depen- 
dencies, 165.  Temporary  reconcile- 
ment with  Francis,  175.  Final  breach, 
192.  Duel,  198.  Agitation  in  England 
respecting  his  conduct,  1783,  219. 
Leaves  India  in  1785,  220.  Charges 
against  him,  and  impeachment,  235. 
Acquittal,  302 

Holland,  First  Lord,  patron  of  Dr. 
Francis,  i.  13.  His  share  in  the  for- 
mation of  Lord  Bute's  second  mi- 
nistry, 59.  Conduct  to  Dr.  Francis, 
360.  Verses  supposed  to  be  written 
by  him,  388 

Home  (Tooke),  suspected  of  writing  for 
'  The  Public  Advertiser,'  i.  141.  Cor- 
respondence with  Junius,  1771,  264. 
Relations  with  Fox,  ii.  449 

Hutchinson,  Lord,  letter  to  Francis,  ii. 
371 

Hyde,  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of 
"  ii.  12,  94,  142 


JMPEY,  Sir  Elijah,  Chief  Justice  of 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Bengal,  ii.  1 2, 
76,  94.  Sails  to  India  at  the  same 
time 'with  the  three  councillors,  ih. 
Trial  of  Nimcomar,  35.  Of  the  case 
of  Grand  13.  Francis,  142.  Visit  to 
Paris,  149.  Joint  attack  on  the  Su- 
preme Court  by  Francis  and  Hastings, 
177.  Accepts  the  Judgeship  of  the 
Sudder  Dewanny  on  the  instance  of 
Hastings,  178.    Recalled,  220,  252 


564 


IXDEX. 


Impel/,  E.  B.,  memoir  of  his  father  by, 
quoted,  ii.  76,  144,  149,  178 

India  House,  debates  in,  on  Lord  North's 
Regulating  Act,  i.  341,  343,  367 

'Irenarch,'  the,  supposed  pamphlet  of 
Junius,  i.  101,  344 


JESUITS,  their  expulsion  from  Por- 
tugal, i.  47.  Burning  of  Jesuit 
books  at  Paris  in  1761,  192-196 
Johnson,  Dr.,  his  '  False  Alarm,'  i.  231 
Junius,  first  use  of  the  signature,  Jan. 
1769,  i.  197.  Mode  of  delivery  of 
letters,  259.  Conclusion  of,  271. 
Legal  knowledge  displayed  in,  272. 
Handwriting,  ib.  Observations  on  the 
preservation  of  the  secret,  286.  Lite- 
rary and  political  characteristics  of, 
296.  Palse  claims  to  authorship  of, 
298.  Conjectures  as  to  origin  of  the 
signature,  301.  '  Private  letters,' 
notes  by  Mr.  Parkes  on  the  hand- 
writing, &c.  of,  Appendix,  No.  II.  i. 
'  Booksellers'  edition '  of,  ii.  207. 
Peculiarities  of  style,  292.  Mr. 
Parkes  on  characteristics  of.  Appendix, 
No.  IV.  ii. 


TJ'INNO  TIL,  Lord,  his  mission 
■^^     tugal,  i.  26-46,  355 


to  POT- 


T  EMAISTSE,  Justice  of  the  supreme 
^     Court  of  Bengal,  ii.  12,  58,  94 
Lennox,  Lady  Sarah,  pupil  of  Dr.  Fran- 
cis, married  by  him  to  Sir  C.  Bunbury, 
i.  360 
Leslie,  Colonel,  his  expedition  and  death, 

ii.  129,  136 
Livius,  Mr.,  ii.  25 
'  Lowther  grant;  the,  i.  177,  182,  187 


T\/fAGAULAY,  Lord,  his  essay  on  War- 
ren Hastings  and  Clive,  ii.  5,  87, 
•221 

Mackintosh,  travels  of,  ii.  3,  153. 
Francis's  concern  with,  205 

Maclean,  Laughlin,  sent  by  Hastings  to 
England  to  oflFer  his  resignation,  ii. 
21,  55 

Macnamara,  Captain,  his  duel  witli 
Harvey  Aston,  ii.  270 

Mackrahie,  Alexander,  Francis's  brother- 
in-law,  goes  to  America  on  a  mer- 
cantile speculation,!.  162.  Francis's 
letters  to  him  there,  eh.  v.  vi.  vii. 
His  anwors.  Appendix,  No.  X.  i.  Ee- 
liirns  to   England,    324.     Leaves   it 


with  Francis,  1774,  as  his  private 
secretary,  351.  Journal  of  the  voyage 
out,  ii.  11-16.  Appointed  Sheriff  of 
Calcutta,  32.  Diary  of  Calcutta  life, 
extracts  from,  37.     Death,  76 

Mackrahie,  Elizabeth  (Mrs.  Francis),  her 
marriage  to  Philip,  i.  57.  Pecuniary 
affairs  during  his  absence  in  India, 
349.  Her  domestic  journal,  ii.  2. 
Death,  343 

Mansfield,  Lord,  his  conduct  in  Rex  v. 
Almon,  i.  88.  Attack  on,  247.  Mis- 
take of  Junius  respecting  his  admitt- 
ing Eyre  to  bail,  271.  Case  of  Eex 
V.  Woodfall,  363 

Middletmi,  Nathaniel,  resident  in  Oude, 
ii.  56,  157 

Mill  ('History  of  British  India')  his 
account  of  the  final  quarrel  between 
Hastings  and  Francis,  ii.  192 

Monson,  Colonel,  appointed  on  the 
Council  of  Bengal,  i.  325  ;  ii.  16,  66. 
Death,  72 

Monson,  Lady  Anne,  ii.  13,  22 


JSJAPOLEON,  First  Consul,  reception 
at  the  Tuileries,  ii.  339 

Naylor,  Mr.,  attached  for  contempt  by 
the  Supreme  Court  at  Calcutta,  ii. 
187 

North,  Lord,  i.  233.  Becomes  premier, 
1770,  240.  His  Regulating  Act,  for 
India,  1773,  i.  323.  Appealed  to  by 
both  parties  in  the  Indian  Council,  ii . 
ch.  i.  ii.  Indian  letters  of  Francis  to 
him,  ib.  Letter  to  Clavering,  106. 
Bristow's  account  of  him,  180 

Nuncomar,  Rajah,  his  trial  and  execu- 
tion, ii.  35 


JiARR,  Dr.,  Character  of  Francis,  ii. 
229,  393 

Paul's,  St.,  schools,  Francis  educated  at, 
i.  ch.  i.  Excellence  of  penmanship 
there,  i.  6 

Pigott,  Lord,  his  imprisonment  at  Ma- 
dras, ii.  70 

Pinto,  Isaac,  his  '  Essay  on  Circulation,' 
i.  321 

Pitt,  Thomas,  first  Lord  Camelford, 
his  visit  to  Portugal,  i.  30.  Charac- 
ter, ii.  217 

Pitt,  William,  his  dislike  of  Francis, 
ii.  227.  His  change  of  policy  on  the 
impeachment  of  Hastings,  237.  His 
ministry  in  1805,  345.  Character  of, 
467 

Portland,  Duke  of,  transfer  of  his  crown 


[NDEX. 


565 


POE 


estate  to  Sir  James  Lowther,  i.  177, 
182 

Portugal,  mission  to,  i.  26.  State  of, 
a,s  described  by  Francis,  i.  34,  37,  40, 
355.  Letter  to  the  Duke  of  Eichmond 
on,  118.  In '  The  Public  Advertiser,' 
132.  Duke  of  WeUington's  campaigns 
in,  ii.  369 

Fownal,  Governor,  one  of  the  alleged 
authors  of  Junius,  i.  298 

Price,  Capt.  Joseph,  ii.  3.  Cause  of  his 
hostility  to  Francis,  133,  134.  His 
pamphlets  against  him,  207,  211 


1DAMU8,  Henry,  recommended  to 
Francis  for  patronage,  ii.  41 

EihouviUe,  Mr.,  tutor  to  Francis's  son,  i. 
331,  403.  Letter  to  him,  on  educa- 
tion. Appendix,  No.  IX.  i. 

Eichmond,  Charles,  third  Duke  of,  i.  120, 
325 

Bobinson,  Mr.,  Secretary  to  the  Treasury 
under  Lord  North,  i.  342 

Bockingham,  ministry,  first,  fall  of,  i. 
116.  Party,  362,  Marquis,  charac- 
ter of,  ii.  467 

Bosenhagen,  Philip,  schoolfellow  of 
Francis,  i.  8.  Answers  Dr.  John- 
son's 'False  Alarm,'  231.  His  ab- 
sence from  England  during  the 
Junian  period,  261.  Account  of  him 
in  Paris,  1772,  309;  ii.  274.  Letter 
to  Francis  on  Indian  aiFairs,  ii.  222. 
Refuses  to  marry  the  Prince  of  Wales 
to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  275.  Archdea- 
con of  Colombo,  277.     Death,  ib. 

Bumbold,  SirT.,  sent  to  Madras,  ii.  128. 
His  proceedings  there,  188,  211 


OANDWICH,  Earl  of,  private  letter  to 
^     WoodfaU,  i.  281 
Scott,  Major,  agent  of  Hastings,  ii.  175, 

237 
Shee,  IVIr.  (Sir  George),  witness  in  the 

Grand  case,  ii.  141 
Sheridan,  E.  B.,  anecdote  of,  ii.    360. 

Relations  with  Fox,  449 
Shore     (Lord      Teignmouth),      assists 

Francis  in  his  Indian  minutes,  ii.  4 
Smith,  Lieut.  Lucius,  a  correspondent  of 

Francis  in  India,  ii.  113,  120 
Stanhope,  Lord,  his  account  of  Indian 

affairs  in  1773,  quoted,  i.  322 
Stanley,    Hans,    his    mission    to  Paris 

in  1761,  i.  55.     His  despatch  about 

the  burning  of  the  Jesuit  books,  194. 

His  death,  330 


Strachey,    Sir  Henry,  correspondent  of 

Francis,  i.  334 ;  ii.  ch.  i.  ii. 
Sulivan,  Mr.,  Director  of  the  East  India 

Company  and  friend  of  Hastings,  ii. 

195,  217 
Sutton,  Sir  Richard,  his   quarrel  with 

Francis,  ii.  267 


rpALLEYBAND,  his  marriage  with 
Madame  Grand,  ii.  143 

Taylor,  John,  '  Junius  identified,'  i.  200  ; 
ii.  383  n.  Letter  from,  on  'Book- 
seller's edition'  of  Junius,  ii.  207 

Temple,  Lord,  authorship  of  '  Candor ' 
attributed  to  him,  i.  78,  85 

Thanet,  Lord  and  Lady,  intimacy  of 
Francis  with,  ii.  315.  Letters  to,  ch. 
iv.  V. 

Thicknesse,  George,  head-master  of  St. 
Paul's  school,  i.  5  ;  ii.  259,  279.  Phiiip, 
his  brother,  ii.  279 

Tierney,  George,  ii.  307,  449 

Tilghman  (or  Tilman),  Richard,  Ameri- 
can cousin  of  Francis  (see  pedigree). 
Studies  law  in  England,  i.  eh.  vii. 
Supposed  to  have  supplied  law  to 
Junius,  i.  267.  Returns  to  America, 
269.  His  letters  from  thence  to 
Francis,  Appendix,  No.  X.  i.  Joins 
Francis  in  India,  ii.  30,  98,  111. 
Comes  to  England  with  him,  202.  Re- 
turn to  India,  and  death.  232 

Tovmsend,  Viscount,  Lord  Lieutenant  of 
Ireland  in  1767,  attacks  on,  in  '  The 
PubUc  Advertiser,'  i.  148.  His  cari- 
catures, 149,  153 


yETEBAIf,  letter  of,  toLord  Barring- 
*^      ton,  i.  276 


IXMiPOiS,  Horace,  i.  237.     Private 

letter  to  Woodfall,  281 
Watkins,  Emma  (Lady  Francis),  i.  11. 

Marriage,  ii.  378.  Her  reminiscences, 

account  of,  383 
Wellington,     Duke     of,     criticism     of 

Francis  on  his  Portuguese  campaign, 

ii.  369 
Whitbread,  Mr.,  Francis  respecting  him, 

ii.  404 
Tfilkes,  statements  of  Francis  respecting, 

and  connection  with,  i.  78,  180,  207. 

Relations  of  with  Junius,  ii.  549 
Windham,     Mr.,     his     admiration     of 

Francis,  ii.  228.     Letter  on  Catholic 

claims,  346 


566 


INDEX. 


Wood,  Robert,  Secretary  to  the  Trea- 
sury, early  patron  of  Francis,  i.  18, 
358  n. 

Woodfall,  Henry  Sampson,  account  of,  i. 
70.  Kis  relations  with  Francis  and 
with  Junius  discussed,  ch.  vii. ;  Ap- 
pendix, No.  IV.  ii.  Whether  cognisant 
of  the  authorship  of  Junius,  i.  288 


TOR 


Woodfall,    "WiUiam, 
Woodfall,'  i.  293 


called     '  Memory 


yORK,  Duke  of,  Francis  on  proceed- 
ings   in  the  House   of   Commons 
respecting,  ii.  357 


THE   END. 


LONDO.S 

PEISTED    BY    BPOTTISWOODR    AND    CO. 

KEW-STUEET    BQUAUBl 


■-f^ 

^ 


I 


^ 


•s 


^ 


"5> 


V 


feq 


^ 


^ 
Q 


'^'s^^i  i  .^ .. 


^^1 


^ 


vS 


WORKS  BY  JOM  STUAET  MILL, 

M.P.    FOR    WESTMINSTER. 


CONSIDEEATIONS   on  EEPEESENTATIVE    GOVEENMENT. 

Third  Edition 8vo.  9s. 

On    EEPEESENTATIVE    GOVEENMENT.      By   John   Stuart 

Mill,  M.P.  for  Westminster.    People's  Edition Crown  8vo.  2s. 

THOUGHTS  on  PAELIAMENTAET  EEFOEM.     Second  Edition, 

with  Supplement 8vo.  is.  6d. 

PEINCIPLES   of  POLITICAL  ECONOMY,  with  some   of  their 

Applications  to  Social  Philosopby.    Sixtli  Edition 2  vols.  Svo.  30s. 

PEINCIPLES    of   POLITICAL   ECONOMY,    By   John  Stttaet 

Mill,  M.P.  for  Westminster.    People's  Edition Crown  Svo.  5s. 

On  LIBEETY.     Third  Edition Post  8ro.  7s.  ed. 

On  LIBEETY.     By   Johk   Stttaet   Mill,  M.P.   for   "Westminster. 

People's  Edition Crown  Svo.  U.id. 

UTILITAEIANISM.     Second  Edition Svo.  5s. 

An  EXAMINATION  of  SIE  WILLIAM  HAMILTON'S  PHILO- 

SOPHY,  and  of  the  Principal  Philosophical  Questions  discussed  in  his  Writings,     Third 
Edition,  revised Svo.  16*. 

DISSEETATIONS    and   DISCUSSIONS,    POLITICAL,    PHILO- 

SOP^ilCAL,  and   HISTORICAL;  reprinted  chiefly  from  tiie  Edinburgh  and  Westminster 
Reviews.    Second  Edition,  revised    2  vols.  8vo.  24«. 

Contents  : — 1.  The  Bight  and  Wrong  of  State  Interference  with  Corporation 
and  Church  Property.  2.  Tlie  Currency  Jugr^te.  3.  The  French  Revolution.  4.  Thoughts  on 
Poetry  and  its  Varieties.  5.  Professor  Sedgw^ick's  Discourse  on  tbe  Studies  of  the  University  ot 
Cambridg-e.  6.  Civilization.  7.  Aphorisms,  a  Fragment.  8.  Armand  Carrel.  9.  A  Prophecy. 
10.  Writings  of  Alfred  DeVigny.  11.  Bentham.  13.  Coleridge.  13.  De  Tocqueville 
on  Democracy  in  America.  14.  Bailey  on  Berkeley's  Theory  of  Vision.  15.  Michelet's 
History  of  France.  16.  The  Claims  of  Labour.  17.  Guizot's  Essays  and  Lectures  on  History. 
18.  Earlv  Grecian  History  and  Legend.  19.  The  French  Revolution  of  184S.  20.  Enfranchise- 
ment of  Women.    21.  Dr.  Whewell  on  Moral  Philosophy.    22.  Grote's  History  of  Greece. 

DISSEETATIONS    and    DISCUSSIONS,   POLITICAL,   PHILO- 

SOPHICAL,    and  HISTORICAL;  reprinted  chiefly  from  the  Edinburgh  akd  Westminster 
Reviews Vol.  111.  just  published,  price  12«. 

Contents  : — Thoughts  on  Parliamentary  Reform.  2.  Recent  Writers  on 
Eeform.  3.  Bain's  Pajchology.  4.  A  Few  Words  on  Non-intervention.  5.  The 
Contest  in  America.    6.  Austin  on  Jurisprudence.     7.  Plato. 

A  SYSTEM   of  LOGIC.  EATIOCINATIVE   and    INDUCTIVE. 

Sixth  Edition 2  vols.  Svo.  25i. 

INAUGUEAL  ADDEESS  delivered  to  tlie  UNIVEESITT  of  ST. 

ANDREWS,  Feb.  1, 1867.    By  John  Stuart  Mill,  M.P.  Rector  of  the  University.    Library 
Edition Post  Svo. 

INAUGUEAL  ADDEESS  delivered  to  the  UNIVEESITT  of  ST. 

ANDREWS,  Feb.  1, 1867.  By  John  Stuabt  Mill,  M.P.  Rector  of  the  University.  People's 
Edition Crown  Svo.  Is. 


London:    LONGMANS,  GEEEN,  and   CO.  Paternoster  Eow. 


COMPLETION   OF   CROWE'S    HISTORY  OF   FRANCE. 


In  a  few  days  will  appear,  the   rijFTH  and  concluding  VoirME  of 

THE  HISTORY  OF  PRANCE 

FROM  CLOVIS  AND  CHARLEMAGlffE  TO  THE   ACCESSION  OF 
NAPOLEON  THE  THIRD, 

By  EYEE   EVAISTS    CEOWE. 

Derived  in  great  part   from    contemporary  Memoirs    and   authentic  historical 
Documents  preserved  in  MS.  in  the  Archives  and  Public  Libraries  of  Erance, 
not  hitherto  consulted  or  used  as  materials  by  any  English  Historian- 
Each  Volume  mai/  be  had  separately  : — 

Vol.  I.  price  14^.  from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the  Death  of  Charles  V,  a.d.  1380. 
Vol.  It.  price  15j.  from  Accession  of  Charles  VL  to  Death  of  Henri  II.  a.d.  1559. 
Vol,  III.  price  18j,  from  the  Accession  of  Francois  II.  to  the  Peace  of  Nim-^* 

under  Louis  XIV.  a.d.  1679. 
Vol.  IV.  price  IB*,  from  the  Revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes  to  the  Close  of 

Convention,  October  1795. 
Vol.  V.   nearly    ready^    from    the    Directory    (1795-1799)    to    the    AccessiL  i 

Napoleon  HI.  December  1852. 


Critical  OpinioTis  of  the  Fourth  Volume. 


*  The  book  is  of  great  value  to  the 
student  from  its  compreber.Biveness  and  the 
care  and  g^eneral  correctneBs  withwhicb  it  has 
been  compiled.'         Pall  Mall  Gazette. 

*  The  fourth  volume  of  this  excellent 
and  clearly-written  history  contains  a  period 
of  surpassinp:  interest  to  the  English  reader, 
the  close  of  the  seventeenth  and  nearly  the 
whole  of  the  eighteenth  century —  The  work  will 
establish  the  credit  of  the  Author  as  a  diligent  and 
perspicuous  writer.*         Moening  Advektisbe. 

*  It  18  clear  that  Mr.  Crowe  studies 
to  be  just  and  impartial.  The  excesses  of 
neither  party  are  reflected  in  his  pa^es.  Per- 
haps so  sensational  a  Ltory  [as  that  of  the 
French  Revolution]  has  never  been  told  before 
in  such  unimpassionecl  languaRe.  Every  mere  tu- 
multuous scene  is  kept  in  the  background  as  much 
as  possible.  The  tone  is  judicial.  No  book  is  better 
adapted  for  the  young,  who  are  sure  to  read  suffl- 
oieiitly  exaggerated  descriptions  of  episodes  which 
by  themselves  loom  like  hideous  nightmares  upon 
what  mav  be  called  the  human  recollection  of  tlie 
lieign  of  Terror.  There  is  no  passage  that  will  not 
bear  reading  aloud  in  a  family,  and  none  which  is 
not  manifestly  the  result  of  industry  and  a  sincere 
desire  to  state  facts.'  Kbadeb. 

'  The  fourth  volume  of  Mr.  Ceowe's 
work  brinffs  down  the  history  of  France  to  the 
Close  of  the  Convention  i  n  1795.  It  is  marked 
by  even  greater  freedom  from  the  restraints 
of  accepted  authorities  than  the  previous  vo- 
lumes. The  Writer  thinks  for  himself,  and  does  not 
on  any  occasion  allow  the  opinions  he  expresses  to 
be  swayed  by  those  of  other  historians.  The  exciting 
and  terrible  story  of  the  Revolution  is  told  calmly 
and  with  sufficient  minuteness  to  give  the  reader  a 
fair  picture  of  those  fearful  times.  It  is  strictly  a 
narr.itive.  The  Author  traces  the  events  from  tliose 
wliich  preceded  (hem,  and  shews  the  causes  that 
operated  for  their  production  with  clearness  and 
fairness,  so  as  to  satisiy  any  man  of  common  sense 


that  there  was  only  one  alternative  to  re- 
volution, and  that    simply  the  extinction  of 

the  people Mr.  Ckowb's  narrative  is  not 

only  very  clear,  but  it  is  also  well  connected, 
and  it  has  the  advantage  of  being  a  faithful 
reflection  of  the  time.'  Daily  News. 

•  The  best  English  historian  of  France 
is  now  within  one  volume  of  the  conclusion  of  his 
labours,  six-aiid-thirty  years  ago  Mr.  Chowe  proved 
his  interest  in  his  present  subject  by  contributing  a 
history  of  France  in  three  volumea  to  Lirdnbe's 
Cabinet  Cyclopmdia.  Between  then  and  now  his 
judgment  and  his  knowlcdt^e  have  been  ripening. 
Fully  alive  to  the  value  of  new  information,  he  has 
been  not  merely  attentive  to  the  materials  published 
since  thevvriting  of  his  former  history,  but  has  been 
making  active  research  of  liis  own  among  State 
Papers  and  other  MS,  records.  For  hia  Foueth 
VoLUMK,  which  narrates  French  history  from  the 
Peace  of  Nimeguen,  in  1678,  to  the  Close  of  the  Con- 
vention in  1795,  the  material  was  to  be  drawn  from 
innumerable  printed  memoirs,  letters,  souvenirs. 
But  the  reading  of  them  has  been  habitual.  They 
have  not  been  crnmmed  for  an  immediate  purpose; 
and  the  sound  information,  always  thoughtfully 
conveyed,  passes  easily  as  ripe  and  wliolesome 
knowledge  into  tlie  reader's  mind.  Mr.  Ceowk  has 
not  only  sLndied  his  subject  tlioroughly,  but  has 
spent  years  of  his  lifein  France,  and  while  he  thinks 
liite  a  liberal  Englishman,  he  is  liberal  in  all  the 
best  senses  of  the  word,  and  will  offend  no  liberal 
Frenchman  by  the  narrowness  of  his  opinions.  He 
is  alive  to  the  true  greatness  of  France,  and  in  our 
English  preiudice  perhaps,  we  think  that  the  best 
interests  of  the  French  would  be  advanced  if  such  a 
history  as  Mr.  Ceowe's,  translated  into  their  own 
language,  became  popular  among  them.  But  the 
history  they  bke  ia  more  showy,  though  a  great 
(leal  less  substantial.  . . .  Mr.  Crowb's  History  of 
Fravce  is  such  n  work  as  a  statesman  might  hav^ 
V.'-'v*^®":  Pij-^Gth-al  thought  bjised  on  a  knowledge 
of  life  gives  the  nghtaortof  backbone  to  its  scliolar- 
Hhip.  It  grows  in  interest  as  it  proceeds,  and  has  a 
fine  consistency  of  thought  in  it,  IVom  first  to  last.' 

EXAMINKB." 


London :   LONGMANS,  GREEN,  and  CO.  Paternoster  Row. 


"10 


■•uiAip^'lCf^^u^!^  <§SBn*a^>  I 


:.j;^^ 


ft"."iW' 


••  ' A* •'.■.<*. 'i^  rf 


Jt-b-Jj    a»,i-  I  J    ,  !      '   ^r     '     'HifiC 


'*-'  r*  ,'4-  i' 


ar.ia.iA>i1ij.:!r.  -.AJ^Ai.  (r' 


f  J  ^-wTTj! '•''-;_  ('•-aT  iti^j 


>* 


>;,:  V^o<*^^l':^^::i'-^■^^ Vi^^il^V' "^ ' "- 


