P!gfmmmm^ifm^^'^'^*,''r>*"" 


i>i<Mr'^'-r-wf!P«'i'«    ■I"''' 


•^c,■,^t-:^.4^■'■■■y^•:-^■^^^i 


''h;';'.;i. 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 

OF  CALIFORNIA 

RIVERSIDE 


Ex  Libris 
C.  K.  OGDEN 


I'hUo^^  j'-'i  V 


THE    FRANCIS 
LETTERS 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Arciiive 

in  2007  witii  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


Iittp://www.arcliive.org/details/francisletters01franiala 


A', 


.^3r^<.-y*^-i 


V4J,tt^&MirK,fi^  4o 


^:z<?^h^^^^^^ 


xc^-a-^^^ry^ 


THEj^RANCIS 
LETTERS    <By 

SIR   PHILIP   FRANCIS 

AND  OTHER  MEMBERS  OF  THE  FAMILY 
.  .  .  Edited  by  BEATA  FRANCIS 
...   and  ELIZA  KEARY  .... 


WITH  A  NOTE  ON         ***»=* 

THE  JUNIUS   CONTROVERSY 

By    C.   F.   KEARY        :.      =      «*« 


WITH    PORTRAITS 


VOL,    I 


LONDON  =  *  *  * 
HUTCHINSON  AND  CO 
PATERNOSTER  ROW   *         * 


F8hZ 

no  I 


PRINTED  BY 

HAZELL,  WATSON,  AND  VINEY,   LD. 

LONDON  AND  AYLESBURY. 


INTRODUCTIOR 


THE  Francis  family  had  a  weakness  for 
preserving  letters  which  lasted  through 
several  generations.  In  boxes  and  bundles  in  the 
possession  of  its  present  representatives,  which 
have  only  lately  been  overhauled,  is  to  be  found 
every  variety  of  correspondence,  from  formidable- 
looking  State  papers  down  to  appointments  with 
dentists. 

The  design  of  selecting  letters  from  the  Family 
Budget  and  arranging  them  for  publication  was  con- 
ceived by  Beata  Francis,  the  great-granddaughter 
of  Sir  Philip  Francis,  and  had  been  partly  carried 
out  by  her  'when  an  illness,  which  ended  fatally, 
obliged  her  to  lay  the  work  aside. 

In  the  short  preface  which  she  prepared  for  her 
book  she  says  : — 

"  Sir   Philip    Francis   kept   copies   of  every   letter 


vi  3ntro^uction 

of  importance  which  he  wrote,  and  bound  them  up 
with  their  answers.  His  five  daughters  apparently 
treasured  all  those  they  received  from  each  other 
when  away  from  home,  as  well  as  numbers  from 
friends  and  acquaintances,  systematically  disregard- 
ing the  injunctions  of  the  writers  to  burn  what 
they  had  written  instantly.  One  of  the  sisters 
regularly  ends  her  letters  with  *  Burn  this.' 

"It  is  impossible  to  imagine  why  some  of  these 
letters  were  kept.  Many  of  them  are  very  dull 
and  bald ;  some  contain  nothing  but  minute 
accounts  of  illnesses  with  distressing  particulars  of 
the  rough  medical  treatment  of  a  century  or  a 
century  and  a  half  ago ;  scarcely  any,  one  would 
imagine,  would  have  been  worth  preserving  when 
preserved,  though  as  time  rolls  on  and  manners 
and  customs  change,  an  element  of  interest  is 
added  to  them  for  which  their  writers  can  claim 
no  credit." 

In  accordance  with  Miss  Francis's  request,  the  task 
has  been  taken  up  where  she  laid  it  down,  and  the 
present  volumes  are  the  result  of  the  effort  that  has 
been  made  to  carry  out  her  design. 

Although  the  letters  cluster  round  Sir  Philip,  who 
was  himself  the  letter-writer  par  excellence  of  the 
family,  it  has  not  entered  into  the  scheme  of  this  book 
to  give   anything  like  a  record  of  his  life,   or  even 


5ntt0&UCtX0tt  vii 

to  bring  him  into  especial  prominence ;  the  desire 
has  been  rather  to  throw  the  Hght  upon  the  groups 
of  his  friends  and  correspondents,  and  especially  upon 
the  members  of  his  own  family,  through  three  genera- 
tions of  letter-writers.  As  the  descriptions  of  people 
and  places  move  through  the  years  the  reader  may 
get,  besides  the  outward  impressions,  some  glimpses 
of  the  personalities  of  the  writers,  slight  character 
sketches  of  themselves  by  themselves,  which  will 
add  an  interest  to  the  reading. 

No  attempt  has  been  made  to  modernise  or  correct 
the  spelling  of  these  letters,  or  to  correct  the  quota- 
tions in  other  languages,  except  when  what  has  been 
written  was  obviously  a  mere  slip  of  the  pen.  It 
seems  that  Francis  occasionally  wrote  a  sort  of  dog 
French  on  purpose.  Passages  from  diaries  and 
journals  of  travel  have  been  interspersed  with  the 
letters,  to  fill  up  blank  spaces  and  carry  on  what 
we  may  almost  call  a  family  history  of  the  period. 

The  earliest  of  the  letters  selected  are  from  Dr. 
Francis,  the  father  of  Sir  Philip  Francis,  to  his  son 
when  the  latter  was  at  school.  Dr.  Francis,  who 
was  a  son  of  the  Rev.  John  Francis,  Dean  of 
Lismore,  was  an  accomplished  scholar,  a  political 
writer,  and  at  one  time  a  tutor.  Gibbon  was  once 
his  pupil.  The  letter  which  concludes  the  series 
is  from   Lady   Francis,    Sir    Philip's   second  wife ;  it 


viu  5ntro^uctton 

was    written    to    a    friend    a    few    days    after    her 
husband's  death. 

The  letters  in  these  volumes  have  been  divided 
into  periods,  and  a  short  rdsum^  of  the  contents 
introduces  each  period ;  these  fore-notes  may  be 
looked  upon  as  signposts  by  means  of  which  the 
reader  can  find  his  way  to  such  subject  or  such 
company  as  inclination  may  suggest. 

ELIZA    KEARY. 


r 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

A  Note  on  the  "Junius"  Controversy.    By  C.  F.  Keary.       i 

I 

Period    I.  (1754—1772) 33 

II.  (1772— 1774) 135 

„     III.  (1774— 1781) 215 


ILLUSTRATIONS. 


PAGE 

Sir  Philip  Francis,   from  a   Life-size   Pastel,    taken    in    1777 

Frojttispiece 

Maria   Anna   Victoria,    Infanta  of  Spain,  afterwards  Queen 

OF  Joseph  I.  of  Portugal 44 

Joseph  I.,  King  of  Portugal 58 

Elizabeth  Mackrabie,  First  Wife  of  Sir  Philip  Francis    .        .  137 

King  George  III 180 

Warren  Hastings,  Governor-General  of  India     ....  210 

Sir   Elijah   Impey,    Chief   Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of 

Bengal 256 

The  Hon.  Edmund  Burke 283 

Queen  Charlotte 339 


A   NOTE   ON 
THE   ** JUNIUS''   CONTROVERSY. 

By  C.   F.   KEARY. 


The  Publisher  has  asked  me  to  prefix  to  these  volumes  of  Francis 
Letters  a  Note  on  the  identity  of  Francis  and  funius.  And  though  the 
design  of  the  work  is  not  to  exhibit  Philip  Francis  chiefly  in  his  public 
capacity,  nor  to  leave  him  sole  occupant  of  the  field,  but  rather 
(I  imagine)  to  give  a  picture  of  many  different  personalities  and 
differing  points  of  view,  opinions,  occupations,  and  so  forth,  so  as  to 
afford  some  image  of  the  society  of  that  time ;  still,  there  is  obviously 
more  interest  attaching  to  Francis  and  his  family  if  the  authorship 
of  the  "  Letters  of  funius "  be  unhesitatingly  ascribed  to  the  former. 
In  the  following  Note  I  have  summarised  the  arguments  on  both  sides. 
/  think  that  the  result  is  calculated  to  set  all  doubts  at  rest. 


% 


A    NOTE    ON 
THE   "JUNIUS"   CONTROVERSY. 


Though  it  is  sixty  years  since  Macaulay  wrote  in 
his  confident  way  that  a  jury  would  convict  upon 
the  evidence  which  identifies  Sir  Philip  Francis  with 
Junius,  there  have  never  been  wanting  writers  to 
maintain,  and  maintain  with  vehemence,  the  contrary 
opinion.  By  a  sort  of  literary  convention,  a  con- 
troversy which  has  remained  so  long  open  is  held 
to  be  never  completely  closed,  so  that  some  of  the 
more  serious  modern  writers  who  have  happened 
to  touch  upon  this  question — Mr.  Lecky  in  his 
•'  History  of  England,"  Mr.  Leslie  Stephen  in  his 
biography  of  Francis  in  the  "  Dictionary  of  National 
Biography" — have  refrained  from  pronouncing  final 
verdicts  upon  the  matter,  though  both  of  these — 
and  Mr.  Stephen  more  especially,  in  a  separate 
article  contributed  to  the  English  Historical  Review 
(April,  1888) — have  summed  up  strongly  in  favour 
of  Macaulay's  opinion.  Another  historian  of  re- 
pute. Professor  Goldwin  Smith,  in  a  review  in  the 
Sketch  of  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis's  "Junius  Revealed" 
(Longmans,   1894),  has  been  much  more  decided.^ 

*  The  Sketch,  May  i6th,  1894. 


4  H  Bote  on 

The  writers  upon  the  other  side  have  been  persons 
of  less  weight  and  position,  and  on  that  very  account 
more  free  to  expose  their  view  with  vehemence. 
They  have  been  for  the  most  part  men  who  have 
made  what  they  call  the  "  anti-Franciscan "  theory 
their  hobby.  And  as  often  happens  when  writers  of 
industry  and  ingenuity,  but  of  not  the  widest  historical 
sympathies,  take  up  a  question  of  this  sort,  they  have 
made  it  a  matter  almost  of  personal  feeling,  and 
imported,  to  quote  the  words  of  Mr.  Leslie  Stephen, 
a  "needless  bitterness"  into  the  controversy.  This 
does  not  apply  to  the  late  Mr.  C.  Wentworth  Dilke, 
who  in  his  "  Papers  of  a  Critic"  republished  numerous 
short  articles  contributed  by  him  to  the  AthencBum 
paper.^  Dilke  takes  up  a  negative  position,  and  does 
not  shut  his  eyes  to  the  possibility  of  conclusive 
evidence  being  found  for  the  identification  of  Francis 
and  Junius.  And  as  a  fact,  since  Mr.  Dilke  died, 
evidence  which  is  practically  conclusive  has  come 
to  light.^  But  this  writer's  opinions  have  had  an 
influence  upon  the  history  of  the  controversy  beyond 
any  force  of  argument  or  weight  of  evidence  which 
he  may  have  brought  to  bear.  Through  a  praise- 
worthy, but  I  think  mistaken,  sense  of  loyalty,  the 
AthencBum  paper,  of  which  he  was  the  founder, 
has — forgetful  of  Aristotle — held  itself  committed 
to  sustain  his  views.  And  it  has  done  so  per  fas 
et  nefas ;  not  only  by  opening  its  columns  very 
wide   to   all   that    could   be    written    in    the    way    of 

'  They  range  between  the  years  1848  and  i860. 
2  Though  Mr.  Leshe  Stephen  truly  says  with  regard  to  Dilke  that 
"  Mr.  Dilke's  fault  was  a  tendency  to  excessive  suspiciousness." 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversi?  s 

direct  argument  on  a  rather  dreary  controversy, 
but  by  never  losing  an  occasion,  through  assertion 
or  insinuation,  for  giving  the  impression  that  the 
bias  of  informed  opinion  was  upon  the  side  which 
it  advocated,  instead  of  being,  in  fact,  upon  the 
other  side. 

Another  writer  who  supported  the  "anti-Franciscan" 
view  was  the  late  Mr.  Abraham  Hay  ward.  ^  It  is  to 
him  that  refer  the  remarks  I  have  already  quoted  on 
the  needless  bitterness  with  which  the  controversy  has 
been  carried  on.  "  By  him,"  says  Mr.  Stephen,  "  a 
Franciscan  was  always  mentioned  in  terms  such  as 
a  severe  theologian  might  apply  to  a  Muggletonian, 
or  others  to  an  ignorant  and  perverse  fool."  In  all 
cases  Hay  ward  writes  in  the  dashing,  self-confident 
fashion  of  a  Quarterly  reviewer  ;  and  though,  doubt- 
less, many  of  his  criticisms  are  sound  and  many  of 
his  objections  ingenious,  it  is  true  also  that  a  large 
proportion  of  his  assertions  are  assertions  only,  and 
unsupported  by  valid  evidence. 

The  same  cause  is  still  maintained  by  one  or 
by  two  writers  in  the  Athencsum  paper — firstly  by 
Mr.  Fraser  Rae,  who  has  contributed  a  large  number 
of  signed  articles  to  that  journal,  secondly  by  a  re- 
viewer and  a  writer  of  short,  unsigned  paragraphs  in 
the  same  paper.  And  though  I  imagine  that  there 
is  just  the  same  distinction  between  Mr.  Fraser  Rae 
and  this  anonymous  reviewer  which  I  hold  to  exist  be- 
tween Philip  Francis  and  the  author  of  the  *'  Letters 

^  Hayward's  essay  "  More  About  Junius"  appeared  in  Frasei^s 
Magazine  in  1867  or  1868,  and  was  republished  in  pamphlet  form 
in  1868. 


6  a  *Wote  on 

of  Junius,"  it  will  be  consistent  with   literary  usage 
to  treat  them  as  distinct  personalities. 

I  cannot  say  that  any  one  of  these  three  or  four 
writers,  be  he  more  or  less  open  to  the  evidence  in 
conflict  with  his  own  opinion,  writes  in  the  spirit  of 
a  mere  inquirer  and  not  of  an  advocate.  Each  one 
seems  as  much  bent  on  discrediting  his  opponent  as 
the  counsel  is  when  addressing  a  jury,  and  each  writes 
as  if  he  had  to  concern  himself  not  so  much  with  the 
examination  of  facts  as  with  the  case  presented  by 
the  opposing  party.  Not  otherwise  do  the  Govern- 
ment and  Opposition  organs  argue  the  question  of 
"  Provocation"  and  "  Unpreparedness"  in  connection 
with  the  War  in  South  Africa  ;  but  it  is  not  necessary 
to  treat  an  historical  question  in  this  fashion. 

Neither  the  opinion  of  Macaulay  and  Stanhope  on 
the  one  side,  nor  that  of  Mr.  Dilke  or  Mr.  Hayward 
on  the  other,  need  perforce  have  weight  with  us  at 
the  present  moment ;  because  the  strongest  points  of 
evidence  in  favour  of  what  is  called  the  Franciscan 
theory  have  risen  up  since  these  various  writers  wrote. 
They  have  not  been  all  present  to  the  knowledge 
of  Mr.  Stephen  or  Mr.  Lecky.  And  so,  albeit  this 
"  Junius  "  controversy  is  in  itself  dreary  and  essen- 
tially unimportant,  I  will  expose  as  succinctly  as  I 
can  the  more  important  heads  of  evidence  on  both 
sides  of  the  question,  not  concealing  my  own  con- 
viction that  the  positive  enormously  out-weight  the 
negative  in  the  Franciscan  hypothesis,  but  leaving 
the  reader  free  to  form  his  own  judgment  upon  the 
matter.  The  question  is  at  least  interesting  as  an 
exercise  of  human  reason.     Owing  to  accidental  cir- 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversy  7 

cumstances,  it  has  scarcely  yet,  or  only  once,  been 
presented  in  a  simple  and  undistorted  form ;  and 
even  in  small  things  it  is  not  well  that  the  part  of 
Belial  should  prevail. 

But  in  setting  forth  the  positive  case  I  do  not 
propose  to  enter  into  those  items  of  internal  evidence 
which  have  already  been  treated  by  various  writers. 
I  believe  that  these  alone  would  be  sufficient  to 
produce  conviction  on  any  impartial  mind  which  could 
estimate  their  value.  The  summing  up,  in  the  words 
of  Mr.  Stephen's  essay,  of  the  evidence  which  con- 
nects Francis  and  Junius  in  regard  to  their  use  of 
Lord  Chatham's  speeches  in  the  year  1770  suggests 
the  value  which  attaches  to  many  of  these  items  of 
internal  evidence : 

"  There  was  not  merely  a  conjunction  of  the  two  (not 
very  heavenly)  bodies,  but  a  coincidence  through  an 
arc  of  their  orbits.  During  the  main  part  of  Junius's 
career  Francis,  if  not  Junius,  was  acting  in  close 
co-operation  with  him.  Junius  supported  Chatham's 
rhetoric  in  the  papers  ;  Francis  took  reports  of 
Chatham's  speeches,  and  certainly  published  one  of 
them,  with  the  unfortunate  result,  as  we  have  seen, 
of  closing  for  a  time  the  doors  of  the  House  of  Lords. 
Junius  quotes  Francis's  report  (then  unpublished)  in  a 
private  letter  ;  he  guarantees  the  accuracy  of  another 
report,  though  it  was  probably  inaccurate  and  in  reality 
a  mere  reproduction  of  a  letter  by  Francis  ;  and  Francis 
seems  to  have  returned  the  compliment  by  using  a 
letter  of  Junius  to  construct  his  own  reports.  Both 
were  engaged  in  the  same  political  enterprise,  had 
the  same  anticipations,  and  were  trying  to  bring  in 


8  a  laote  on 

Chatham,  by  endeavouring  to  stimulate  public  opinion 
through  the  press  in  spite  of  the  obstacles  then  to  be 
encountered.  But  the  coincidence,  taken  by  itself,  is 
of  course  susceptible  of  other  explanations  than  an 
identity  of  the  two  allies."  ^ 

The  value  of  this  sort  of  cumulative  and  internal 
evidence,  though  very  high,  can,  however,  only  be 
appreciated  after  a  careful  study.  And,  fortunately, 
upon  the  positive  side  there  are  much  simpler  proofs, 
which  would  to-day,  at  any  rate,  make  Macaulay's 
saying  literally  just ;  for  they  are  such  as  could  go 
before  a  jury  in  a  court  of  law ;  such  as  need  no 
special  historical  knowledge  and  no  minute  research 
to  appreciate.  To  these  heads  of  evidence  upon  the 
positive  side  I   will  co  fine  myself 

Macaulay,    it    will    be    remembered,    divided    the 

evidences  on  this  matter   under   six   heads  :   namely, 

first,  the  evidence  of  handwriting  ;  secondly,  technical 

knowledge  possessed  by  Junius  on  matters  connected 

with  the  War  Office  ;  thirdly,   knowledge  of  internal 

afifairs   of  the   War   Office ;    fourthly,    attendance   of 

Francis   at   the   debates  in  the   House  of   Lords   in 

1770,  and  his  reporting  of  Chatham's  speeches,  which 

contained   expressions   used    by    Junius    before   any 

report    by     Francis    had    been    published     (this     is 

the  coincidence   treated   by    Mr.    Leslie   Stephen    in 

the    English    Historical    Review) ;    fifthly,    Junius's 

bitter  resentment  of  the  appointment  of  Chamier  to 

a   post    in   the    War    Office ;    and,    sixthly,    Junius's 

curious     tenderness     for    the    first     Lord     Holland. 

*  "  Chatham,  Francis,  and  Junius "  {English  Historical  Review, 
1888,  pp.  248-9). 


tbe  "^unttts"  Controversi?  9 

Hayward  has  objected  that  the  heads  two,  three, 
and  five  are  practically  but  one.  This  is  not  quite 
true  ;  and  the  statement  affords  an  example  of  that 
special  pleading  whereof  I  spoke  just  now.  But  in 
any  case  the  evidence  under  these  heads  would  require 
a  long  essay  in  explanation.  Number  four  has  already 
been  treated  competently  and  completely  ;  and  number 
six — alone,  I  think,  of  the  six — is  of  little  cogency. 
The  more  obvious  and  easily  explicable,  and  at  the 
same  time  even  more  cogent,  evidences  which  I 
now  give  include  only  one  of  Macaulay's  six  heads — 
the  first. 

I.— THE  PRINCIPAL  HEADS  OF  EVIDENCE  IN  FAVOUR 
OF  THE  IDENTIFICATION  OF  JUNIUS  WITH 
FRANCIS. 

I.  The  Evidence  of  Handwriting. 

Since  the  notorious  Dreyfus  case  one  has  less 
hesitation  in  asking  the  reader's  attention  to  evi- 
dences from  handwriting ;  for  that  trial  turned 
many  of  us  into  a  sort  of  experts  in  the  matter — 
at  any  rate  to  this  degree,  that  we  understood  the 
kind  of  evidence  which  may  carry  conviction,  and 
the  kind  which  is  most  liable  to  be  deceptive.  It 
will  be  remembered  that,  when  the  famous  bordereau 
was  first  produced,  a  considerable  number  both  of 
experts  and  amateurs  identified  the  handwriting  of 
it  with  the  handwriting  of  Captain  Dreyfus.  This 
identification  was  based  upon  a  superficial  resemblance 
between  the  two  scripts,  and  in  the  absence  of  any 
other   handwriting   which   might   have   lent   itself  to 


lo  a  IJlote  on 

a  minuter  comparison.  And  anybody  who  saw  the 
facsimile  reproductions  will  admit  that  such  superficial 
likeness  did  exist  between  the  writing  of  Dreyfus 
and  the  writing  of  the  bordereau.  But  when  the 
handwriting  of  Esterhazy  had  come  into  evidence, 
it  was  found  that  it  lent  itself  to  much  severer  tests 
than  a  mere  general  comparison ;  and  the  more 
honest  of  the  experts  who  had  first  attributed  the 
bordereau  to  Dreyfus  acknowledged  that  it  must  now 
be  given  to  Esterhazy. 

Now,  the  test  which  has  been  applied  in  the 
comparison  of  a  large  number  of  Francis's  letters 
with  the  sixty-four  letters  of  Junius  to  Woodfall  is 
of  the  minute  character  to  which  Esterhazy's  and  not 
Dreyfus's  writing  lent  itself  side  by  side  with  the 
historical  bordereau.  At  the  request  of  the  Hon.  R. 
Twisleton,  M.  Chabot,  a  French  expert  in  hand- 
writing, assisted  to  some  extent  by  Mr.  Nethercleft, 
an  English  one,  undertook  the  comparison  I  have 
indicated,  and  the  result  (along  with  additional 
evidence  adduced  by  Twisleton,  some  of  which  will 
appear  under  other  heads)  was  published  in  1871. 
It  contains  a  minute  comparison  of  some  four  hun- 
dred forms  of  capitals,  minuscules,  linked  letters, 
and  so  forth ;  and  the  result  is,  in  my  judgment, 
convincing.  For  three  things  must  be  remembered : 
first,  that  we  are  not  -here  dealing,  as  is  so 
often  (nay,  usually)  the  case  in  a  court  of  law,  with 
either  a  signature  merely  or  a  single  document — a 
will,  maybe,  or  a  letter — but  with  a  vast  body  of 
documentary  evidence,  an  almost  unlimited  collec- 
tion of  Francis's  letters  on   the  one  side  and   sixty- 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversg  " 

four  Junius  letters  on  the  other  side ;  secondly, 
that  there  is  no  attempt  at  an  ipse  dico  on  the 
part  of  M.  Chabot,^  but  that  he  demonstrates  with 
great  elaboration  in  289  pages  and  with  the  aid  of 
260  plates  the  grounds  of  his  conclusions ;  thirdly, 
it  is  probable  (nay,  almost  certain)  that  if  any  other 
handwriting  among  those  of  possible  authors  of  the 
"  Letters  of  Junius  "  could  have  borne  the  test  better 
than  Francis's  (as  Esterhazy's  writing  bore  the  test  of 
comparison  with  the  bordereau  better  than  Dreyfus's) 
it  would  by  this  time  have  been  produced.  I  do 
not  say  that  these  three  considerations  need  produce 
absolute  conviction  even  to  one  who  has  examined 
M.  Chabot's  plates,  though  I  think  they  might  well 
do  so ;  but  I  say  that,  short  of  absolute  conviction, 
the  presumption  of  identity  is  enormously  high. 

The  arguments  in  contradiction  that  I  have  been 
able  to  collect  have  all  rested  upon  a  general  ex- 
amination of  the  writing  as  a  whole — none  upon 
that  kind  of  detailed  comparison  which  Twisleton 
and  Chabot  give  us,  or  of  that  kind  which  in  the 
Dreyfus  trial  the  best  experts  made  and  explained 
between  the  bordereau  and  the  Esterhazy  writing. 
Some  of  these  arguments  are  of  the  nature  of 
mere  assertions. 

Hayward,  who,  though  he  did  not  come  face  to  face 
with  the  Twisleton  and  Chabot  work,  had  naturally 
to  speak  on  the  subject  of  handwriting,  declares  that 
he  showed  the  two  scripts  to  thirty  men  of  eminence 

*  Mr.  Fraser  Rae  seeks  to  invalidate  the  evidence  by  citing  a 
case  in  law  in  which  M.  Chabot,  though  positive,  was  mistaken.  For 
the  reason  given  above,  such  an  instance  is  of  small  weight. 


12  a  IJlote  on 

— lawyers  and  men  of  letters — and  that  the  great 
majority  were  of  opinion  that  there  was  no  re- 
semblance between  the  two.  Mr.  Fraser  Rae  says 
that  there  is  more  resemblance  between  the  writing 
of  Junius  and  Dr.  Johnson  than  that  between  Junius 
and  Francis.  Hay  ward  also  asserted  that  it  was 
impossible  for  a  man  to  write  a  feigned  hand  which 
should  be  as  fluent  as  his  natural  hand.  Mr.  Rae 
repeats  this  dictum  of  Hayward's,  which,  presented 
by  him,  becomes  a  "fact."^  In  reality  the  assertion 
is  without  foundation  in  fact.  A  man  might  easily 
write  a  feigned  hand  in  copying  (in  copying  himself 
as  well  as  any  one  else)  which  would  be  far  more 
fluent  than  his  natural  hand  in  writing  original  matter. 
Were  it  otherwise,  it  would  be  impossible  for  a  man 
to  forge  a  hand  more  fluent  than  his  usual  writing, 
quod  absurdum  est. 

I  cannot  recall  that  either  side  in  the  Dreyfus  trial 
attempted  to  procure  a  conviction  or  acquittal  upon 
such  obiter  dicta  or  on  such  unsupported  rumours  and 
assertions  as  these.  It  has  been  said  that  Hay  ward 
was  not  face  to  face  with  Twisleton  and  Chabot's 
work.^  Mr.  Fraser  Rae,  therefore,  has  to  bear  the 
burden  of  the  refutation,  if  there  is  to  be  one.  Mr. 
Rae's  main  argument,  if  I  understand  him  rightly,  is 
that  before  we  are  allowed  to  examine  the  details  of 
resemblance  between  the  two  scripts,  we  must  first 
establish  by  some  sort  of  general  examination  that  the 

^  AthencBuin,  August  nth,  1888. 
Hayward  was  alive  when  this  work  was  published — for  many 
years  subsequent,   in  fact ;    but  he  did    not  again  write  on  the 
"  Junius  "  controversy. 


tbe  ** Junius"  Controvcrsi?  13 

handwriting  of  Junius  was  a  feigned  hand  ;  and  with 
a  note  of  triumph  Mr.  Rae  says  in  one  place  :  "  I  defy 
him  to  prove  that."  And  again  :  "  If  the  handwriting 
is  natural,  then  all  the  argument  based  on  the  evidence 
of  the  handwriting  collapses.  .  .  .  The  burden  of  proof 
lies  with  those  who  maintain  that  the  handwriting  of 
the  Junius  manuscripts  is  a  feigned  hand."  ^  And 
once  more  he  says :  "  Those  who  take  it  for  granted 
that  the  Junian  handwriting  was  feigned  have  never 
explained  why  Junius  was  so  apprehensive  lest  his 
handwriting  should  be  generally  seen.  The  obvious 
if  not  the  only  reason  for  adopting  a  feigned  hand 
is  the  writer's  desire  to  conceal  his  identity."  Again, 
the  anonymous  Athenceum  reviewer  of  "  Junius 
Revealed"  says:  "The  inquiry  [into  the  identity  of 
Junius  and  Francis]  having  resolved  itself — as  Mr. 
Leslie  Stephen  holds  that  it  has  done — into  deter- 
mining whether  the  handwriting  is  feigned  or  natural."  ^ 
I  give  these  quotations  in  extenso  because  I  am  not 
quite  sure  that  I  grasp  the  syllogism  of  Mr.  Rae's 
and  the  anonymous  reviewer's  argument.  All  that  I 
gather  clearly  from  these  passages  is  the  theory  that 
the  *'  naturalness  "  or  "  feignedness  "  of  the  writing 
must  be  established  by  a  priori  considerations.  Mr. 
Rae  seems  to  say  also  that  a  man  who  had  forged 
a  document  could  not  possibly  mind  how  many 
people  inspected  the  forgery.  But  I  assume  that 
he  does  not  mean  that.  To  prove  that  the  writing 
is  not  a  feigned  hand  Mr.  Rae  appears  to  consider 
that  the  evidence  of  one  or  two  experts  is  sufficient. 

'  Athenceuniy  August  i  ith,  1888. 
^  Ibid.^  April,  1894. 


14  H  l^ote  on 

He  quotes  the  assertion  of  George  Woodfall  that 
Junius's  hand  was  not  feigned,  and  also  of  a  certain 
writing-master  Mr.  Tomkins,  "of  eminence  in  the  city 
of  London  " ;  *  then  that  of  M.  Charavay,  the  French 
expert  who  was  a  witness  in  the  Dreyfus  case — one 
of  those  who  exactly  illustrate  the  point  I  have  been 
making,  because  M.  Charavay  changed  his  opinion 
when  passing  from  a  superficial  to  a  detailed  com- 
parison of  the  bordereau.  There  may  be  one  or  two 
other  opinions  quoted. 

I  do  not  myself  understand  how  the  question  of 
the  '•  feignedness  "  of  a  handwriting  can  precede  or  be 
separated  from  the  detailed  comparison  of  one  script 
with  the  other.  Nor  do  I  see  how  an  expert,  let 
alone  any  private  person,  is  to  be  expected  to  pro- 
nounce positively  on  the  mere  general  question 
whether  a  hand  is  feigned  or  not.  For  forgery  is 
perforce  in  a  "  feigned  hand."  If  it  were  possible 
to  detect  "  feignedness  "  at  a  glance,  then  of  course 
every  forgery  would  be  discernible  at  a  glance.  But 
as,  by  admission,  the  best  of  experts  cannot  always 
detect  a  forgery,  it  is  impossible  at  sight  to  assert 
that  a  hand  is  a  natural  hand. 

This  form  of  reasoning  has,  however,  great  weight 
with  Mr.  Fraser  Rae,  for  I  find  it  repeated  many 
times  in  the  papers  which  he  has  contributed  to  the 
Athenceum, 

I   believe   I   have  stated  with  perfect  fairness    the 

*  See  AtherMum,  August  nth,  1888,  and  August  25th,  1888. 
These  opinions,  though  they  are  quoted  as  two  by  Mr.  Fraser 
Rae,  are  really  but  one :  for  it  is  not  his  own  private  opinion,  but 
that  of  Tomkins,  that  George  Woodfall  gives. 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversy?  is 

arguments  by  which  it  is  sought  to  invalidate  the  evi- 
dence produced  in  Twisleton  and  Chabot's  "  Hand- 
writing of  Junius."  But  I  quite  admit  that  the  positive 
value  of  the  evidence  is  a  question  to  be  decided 
by  the  judgment  of  the  individual. 

2.  Evidence  from  the  Spelling  of  Junius 
AND  Francis. 

This  matter  is  also  discussed  in  Twisleton  and 
Chabot's  *'  Handwriting  of  Junius."  Very  rightly 
they  take  for  their  standard  the  edition  of  Johnson's 
Dictionary  the  nearest  in  date  to  that  of  the  letters, 
and  reckon  as  abnormal  the  forms  of  spelling  which 
vary  from  that.  And  even  supposing  the  variations 
from  this  standard  pretty  common  in  contemporary 
correspondence,  there  is  something  peculiar  in  finding 
the  same  anomalies  in  the  two  hands.  As  Mr.  H. 
R.  Francis  says  in  his  "  Junius  Revealed  "  :  "  Let  any 
one  acquainted  with  the  '  doctrine  of  chances  '  try  to 
compute  the  odds  against  there  having  been  during 
the  short  run  of  the  letters  two  highly  educated 
persons,  both  conceivably  capable  of  the  authorship, 
who  exactly  agreed  in  these  various  whims  and  oddities 
of  spelling"  (p.  14). 

The  peculiarities  of  spelling  which  are  common  to 
Junius  and  Francis  are  the  following  :  ally  (for  alley), 
stile  (for  style),  compleat,  risque,  enquiry,  encrease, 
inclose,  untill,  pacquet ;  and  almost  all  words  ending 
with  "  ful "  they  write  with  "  full  " — wonderfull,  shame- 
full.  They  also  abbreviate  should  into  "  sh'd,"  but 
would  into  "  wo'd." 


i6  a  flote  on 

3.  Evidence  of  a  Dated  Proof-Sheet. 

There  exists  in  the  Department  of  Manuscripts  in 
the  British  Museum  (No.  27,776)  a  proof-sheet  of 
"  Letter  XVI."  of  the  "  Letters  of  Junius,"  dated 
"  29  .  July  .  1769."  in  a  handwriting  which  is  not  in 
the  usual  handwriting  of  the  Junius  letters,  and  is 
not  distinguishable  from  the  handwriting  of  Francis. 
I  give  here  an  example  of  this  date  taken  by 
mechanical  process  from  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis's  *'  Junius 
Revealed,"  which  I  have  myself  compared  with  the 
date  in  the  proof-sheet  and  found  to  be  identical. 
Side  by  side  with  it  is  a  date  taken  from  the 
Francis  correspondence. 

It  will  be  seen  that  Francis  had  a  habit  of  placing 
a  full-stop  between  each  item  of  a  date.  The  effect 
of  this  evidence  is  of  course  that  a  proof-sheet  of 
Letter  XVI.  must  have  passed  through  the  hands 
of  Philip  Francis. 

This  was  a  fact  first  brought  to  light  in  Twisleton 
and  Chabot's  work,  and  one  which  has  therefore 
passed  unnoticed  by  Mr.  Dilke  and  Mr.  Hayward. 
Mr.  Fraser  Rae  meets  the  difficulty  by  two  assertions. 
In  one  place  he  says:  '•  If  as  much  attention  had 
been  given  to  the  writing  of  Henry  Sampson 
Woodfall  as  to  that  of  Francis,  it  would  have 
been   seen    that   the   date  is  in  the  natural  hand  of 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversi?  17 

Woodfall."  ^  This  is  a  somewhat  strange  way  of 
making  the  statement.  If  the  date  is  in  the  natural 
hand  of  Woodfall — if,  for  example,  Woodfall,  like 
Francis,  had  the  habit  of  separating  the  items  of 
his  dates  by  dots,  and  if  he  made  his  "J's"  and 
"  I's,"  his  sevens,  his  sixes,  and  his  nines  as  they 
are  made  in  the  examples  before  us — the  fact  is  an 
independent  one  and  requires  no  **  if."  The  Editor 
of  the  AthencBum  would  not,  it  may  be  presumed, 
have  refused  the  expense  of  a  cliche  reproduction  of 
a  date  in  Woodfall's  hand  which  might  have  been 
compared  with  the  date  on  the  proof-sheet.  But 
as  a  fact  no  such  likeness  exists.  In  another  place 
Mr.  Fraser  Rae  denies  the  fact  of  the  resemblance 
between  the  proof-sheet  date  and  the  one  in  the 
known  hand  of  Francis ;  and  addressing,  in  the 
pages  of  the  Athen(Bum,  readers  who  had  not 
the  plates  before  their  eyes,  he  was  on  safer 
ground  than  if  he  had  been  asked  to  formulate  his 
opinion  face  to  face  with  the  plates,  or  with  the 
proof-sheet  itself,  and  with  the  date  on  one  of  the 
autograph  letters  of  Francis.  "  It  so  happens,"  he 
says,  "  that  the  Junius  proof-sheet  does  not  present 
the  full-stop  peculiarity  of  Philip  Francis's  writing."^ 

But  the  reviewer  of  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis's  "  Junius 
Revealed "  in  the  Athen^um  went  a  step  farther 
than  Mr.  Fraser  Rae  in  any  signed  article.  His 
statements  are  even  interesting  from  a  psychological 
point  of  view  ;  as  showing  how  the  advocacy  of  a 
particular    matter    (in    itself  essentially   trivial)   may 

^  Athenceum,  August  25th,  i888. 

'  Ibid.    The  statement  is  repeated,  in  April  9th,  1898. 

2 


1 8  H  flote  on 

come  in  the  end  so  to  afifect  the  powers  of  an 
advocate  that  it  prevents  him  from  seeing  what  is 
before  his  eyes.  In  preparing  the  first  issue  of 
Mr.  Francis's  "  Junius  Revealed "  a  mistake  was 
made  in  the  selection  of  the  cliches.  Instead  of  one 
being  taken  from  the  Junius-proof  date,  and  one 
from  the  private  correspondence  of  Francis,  the  proof 
date  was  twice  reproduced — once  by  a  cliche  taken 
from  the  facsimile  of  the  proof  in  Twisleton  and 
Chabot's  plates,  once  by  a  reproduction  of  the  same 
date  in  the  body  of  the  work  ;  with  the  result  that 
there  appeared  side  by  side  an  impression  of  two 
clichds  taken  by  mechanical  process  from  the  very 
same  date,  but  one  rather  more  heavily  inked  than 
the  other.  The  examples  given  reproduce  this 
peculiarity :  ^ 

Of  course,  so  soon  as  the  error  was  discovered 
it  was  corrected ;  and  only  the  earlier  issues  of  the 
book  contained  this  erroneous  repetition :  29  .  July  . 
1769.  beside  29  .  July  .  1769.  Howbeit,  one  of 
these  earlier  copies  fell  into  the  hands  of  the 
AtheruBum  reviewer ;  and  he,  supposing  that  the 
second  date  29  .  July  .  1769.  came,  as  in  the  text 
it  professed  to  do,  from  the  Francis  correspon- 
dence, set  to  work  to  deny  the  evidence  of  his 
own   senses,    and   to   declare   that   on   the  first   date 

^  By  minute  measurement  these  two  dates  are  easily  found  to 
be  really  identical. 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversy  19 

the  items  were  separated  by  dashes — 29  -  July  -  1769, 
and  that  in  the  second  date  they  were  separated  by 
dots — 29  .  July  .  1 769.  The  passage  occurs  in  the 
AthencBum  for  April  24th,  1894:  "On  the  top  of 
the  Junius  letter  there  appears  29  July,  1769,  while 
the  corresponding  date  is  found  in  one  of  the  Francis 
letters.  In  Francis's  letter  the  date  clearly  appears 
as  follows:  '  29  .  July  .  1769.'  On  the  proof-sheet 
it  is  in  this  form  :  *  29  -  July  -  1 769  '  "  (The  final 
dot  is  omitted  by  the  reviewer.) 

An  unkind  critic  might  be  tempted  to  suggest 
that  Mr.  Fraser  Rae  has  more  interest  in  separating 
his  own  identity  from  that  of  this  reviewer,  than 
in  separating  the  identity  of  Junius  from  that  of 
Philip  Francis. 

4.  The  Evidence  of  the  Verses  Addressed 
TO  Miss  Giles. 

This  is  the  strongest  proof  of  all,  and  it  is  the 
one  easiest  to  explain  and  understand.  All  the 
links  in  the  chain  of  evidence  were  not  complete 
before  the  publication  of  Mr.  Francis's  "  Junius  Re- 
vealed" in  1894.  But  in  a  less  convincing  form  the 
evidence  was  published  in  Twisleton  and  Chabot. 

In  the  winter  of  1770-71  Philip  Francis  met  his 
American  cousin  Tilghman  at  Bath,  and  the  two 
made  the  acquaintance  of  a  Miss  Giles,  a  toast  of 
the  place  and  day.^  A  copy  of  verses  was  presently 
conveyed  to   Miss   Giles,   with  a  notification  on  the 

*  She  was  daughter  of  Daniel  Giles,  subsequently  Governor  of 
the  Bank  of  England,  and  afterwards  became  Mrs.  King. 


20  H  "Hote  on 

cover — the  usual  kind  of  mystification — to  the  effect 
that  the  verses  had  been  picked  up  by  the  sender 
and  so  forwarded.  The  writing  on  the  cover  is  in 
the  handwriting  of  Junius  ;  the  writing  inside  is 
in  the  handwriting  of  Tilghman.  In  1852  Lady 
Francis  gave  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis,  the  author  of 
"  Junius  Revealed,"  a  copy  of  the  same  verses  which 
the  late  Sir  Philip  had  given  her,  as  an  example  of 
one  of  Sir  Philip's  few  efforts  at  versification.  This 
copy  is  in  the  handwriting  of  Philip  Francis — naturally  ; 
and  a  subsequent  comparison  of  the  two  copies, 
Tilghman's  and  Francis's,  together  with  the  envelope 
in  Junius's  hand,  showed  that  the  three  documents 
were  all  written  on  portions  of  the  same  sheet  of 
paper,  with  the  same  water-mark,  etc. ;  so  that  Lady 
Francis's  copy  of  the  Giles  verses  was  one  which 
her  husband  had  kept  by  him  since  the  Bath  days. 
Any  one  who  is  familiar  with  the  Junian  hand  will 
see  that  it  is  the  same  as  that  on  the  cover  of  the 
verses.  But  in  confirmation  of  this  last  link  Mr. 
Francis  mentions  that  when  he  showed  the  cover 
to  Mr.  George  Woodfall,  the  latter  at  once  ex- 
claimed, "  Good  God !  that  is  the  feigned  hand  of 
Junius  !  "  This  concatenation  of  evidence  shows  either 
that  Junius,  Francis,  and  Tilghman  were  a  trio  of 
friends  all  interested  in  a  flirtation  with  Miss  Giles, 
or  that  Junius  and  Francis  were  one  and  the  same. 
I  do  not  find  that  this  head  of  evidence  has  been 
dealt  with  by  any  anti-Franciscan.  In  one  place 
Mr.  Rae  professes  his  inability  to  see  the  links  of 
the  argument,  and  in  another  place  he  says  that,  if 
the   cover  were   undoubtedly   in    the   handwriting  of 


tbe  "Junius"  Contropcrsi?  ai 

Junius,  "  the  identification  of  Junius  with  Francis 
would  not  be  advanced  one  step."  ^  I  cannot  state 
the  argument  more  clearly  than  I  have  done  in  the 
previous  pages,  and  must  be  content  to  leave  the 
matter  so.  I  notice,  only  to  pass  by,  the  facts  that 
Mr.  Fraser  Rae  has  commented  upon,  as  if  to  in- 
validate, certain  different  versions  as  to  how  the 
verses  came  into  Miss  Giles's  possession ;  that  he 
quotes  a  passage  from  a  letter  of  Junius  as  an 
argument  that  Junius  could  not  dance ;  that  by  a 
mistake  of  his  own  as  to  the  exact  date  of  the  Giles 
episode  he  represents  Francis  as  kept  at  the  bed- 
side of  a  sick  father ;  and,  fourthly,  that,  quoting  a 
letter  from  Francis  to  his  wife,  he  mentions  that 
Francis's  wife  had  five  children,  and  asks  if  such 
a  married  man  would  be  likely  to  be  flirting  with 
Miss  Giles. 

As  we  are  dealing  with  a  matter  of  documentary 
evidence,  I  do  not  know  to  what  such  arguments 
are  supposed  to  point. 

^  Atherueum,  August  25th,  1888.  And  in  the  same  number :  *'  By 
a  process  of  reasoning  which  I  cannot  understand  or  follow,  the 
evidence  of  Miss  Giles  must  be  accepted  as  proving  that  Francis 
is  Junius."  In  a  paper  contributed  much  more  recently  to  the 
Athenaum  Mr.  Fraser  Rae  imagines  the  ghost  of  Sir  Philip 
Francis  expressing  his  opinion  on  the  controversy.  The  following 
are  the  words  that  Mr.  Rae  puts  into  the  mouth  of  Sir  Phihp  in 
regard  to  the  "  Miss  Giles  "  episode  :  "  I  simply  express  my  wonder 
that  my  grandson  should  have  concluded  I  must  have  been  Junius 
because  I  gave  I^dy  Francis  before  marriage  a  copy  of  verses  which 
I  had  written  for  my  cousin  Tilghman  to  advance  his  suit  with  Miss 
Giles."  This  was  written  in  the  Atherueum  of  January  8th,  1898. 
It  may  be  assumed  that  up  to  that  date  Mr.  Rae  had  not  grasped 
the  bearings  of  this  head  of  evidence. 


22  H  flote  on 

The  four  heads  of  evidence  which  we  have  discussed 
do  not,  of  course,  invalidate  all  these  subsidiary  evi- 
dences, which  were  familiar  to  Macaulay,  which  have 
grown  stronger  since,  which  are  familiar  to  Mr. 
Leslie  Stephen,  to  Mr.  Lecky,  to  Professor  Goldwin 
Smith,  and  may  easily  be  acquired  by  any  one  who 
takes  the  trouble  to  read. 

I  now  turn  to  consider — 

II.— THE  EVIDENCES  AGAINST  THE  IDENTIFICATION 
OF  FRANCIS   WITH  JUNIUS. 

I.  The  Discrepancy  which  exists  between 
Francis's  Private  Relations  with  Certain 
Individuals,  and  the  Treatment  of  these 
Persons  by  Junius. 

This  is  an  argument  of  considerable  weight.  Of 
the  fact  of  this  discrepancy  there  can  be  no  doubt. 
It  was  especially  towards  Lord  Barington  and  to- 
wards Calcraft,  both  personal  friends  and  benefactors 
of  Francis,  and  in  a  degree  hardly  less  towards  Sir 
William  Draper,  that  Francis,  if  Francis  was  Junius, 
showed  himself  strangely  false,  if  not  vindictive. 
But  it  is  obvious  that  evidence  of  this  sort,  depending 
upon  such  an  inscrutable  thing  as  the  human  heart, 
is  evidence  of  quite  a  different  kind  from  that  which 
is  afforded  by  material  proofs.  It  is  a  point  which 
has  necessarily  been  insisted  on  greatly  by  the 
opponents  of  the  Francis  theory,  and  it  has,  I  think, 
been  very  adequately  dealt  with  by  Mr.  Lecky  in 
his  •*  History  of  England  in  the  Eighteenth  Century." 
As  a  palliation  against  the  worst  that  may  be  said  of 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversy  23 

Francis,  we  must  remember  that  he  was  an  Irishman. 
In  one  respect  Francis  resembled  another  perfervid 
Scot,  of  a  different  Celtic  family — Carlyle — namely, 
in  his  love  of  superlatives ;  so  that  when  Junius  says 
that  Barington  has,  after  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  "  the 
blackest  heart  in  the  kingdom,"  we  must  not  assume 
him  to  have  meant  quite  all  he  said.  And  it  is 
probable  that  he  very  soon  forgot  the  violent  terms 
he  had  used.  At  a  moment  when  Chatham  was 
thought  to  be  deserting  the  party  on  which  Francis 
had  based  his  hopes  and  his  fortunes,  Junius  wrote 
hardly  less  violently  of  that  great  statesman  than 
he  had  done  of  Barington.  And  yet  at  the  end 
of  his  life  Francis  said,  probably  quite  truly  as 
far  as  his  memory  served,  that  he  had  ever  held 
Chatham  in  veneration.  Just  so,  in  later  life,  Francis 
declared  that  he  had  consistently  opposed  the  policy 
which  brought  on  the  war  with  the  American 
colonies ;  whereas  we  know,  from  Francis's 
private  correspondence,  that,  at  the  first,  he  did 
so  neither  over  his  own  signature  nor  over  that 
of  Junius.^ 

Against  this  sort  of  discrepancy  between  Junius 
and  Francis  and  others  of  a  like  nature,  such  as 
the  contemptuous  way  in  which  Francis  speaks  some- 

^  Mr.  Lecky  writes  :  "  No  single  fact  is  more  conspicuous  in  the 
character  of  Francis  than  the  manner  in  which  he  continually 
quarrelled  with  those  from  whom  he  had  received  benefits  ;  his 
writings  are  full  of  disparaging  and  injurious  remarks  about  men  with 
whom  he  had  lived  on  terms  of  close  intimacy  and  to  whom  he 
should  have  been  bound  by  strong  ties  of  gratitude." — "  History  of 
England  in  the  Eighteenth  Century,"  vol.  iii.,  p.  475. 


24  H  "Rote  on 

times  of  Wilkes  and  his  cause/  may  be  set  the  fact 
that  without  doubt  the  knowledge  of  Junius  in  many 
cases  tallied  in  a  most  curious  way  with  the  knowledge 
of  Francis ;  as  did  the  ignorance  of  Junius  with  the 
ignorance  of  Francis.  One  specially  noticeable  in- 
stance— because  it  is  an  instance  of  ignorance  based 
on  misapplied  knowledge — is  Junius's  challenge  to 
Sir  William  Draper  as  to  the  oath  he  had  to  take 
on  receipt  of  his  pension.  Junius  cites  the  usual 
form  of  oath,  with  which  Francis  would  be  familiar 
enough  as  a  War  Office  clerk,  but  which  happened 
to  be,  in  this  peculiar  case,  without  application.  And 
there  are  a  vast  number  of  other  instances  of  a 
similar  character. 

But  even  if  the  negative  evidence  under  this  head 
were  not  counterbalanced  by  much  positive  evidence, 
nobody  will  doubt  that  in  its  nature  it  is  vastly  less 
convincing  than  the  kind  of  evidence  adduced  for 
conviction  of  identity.  It  is  not,  as  Hume  would 
say,  contrary  to  experience  that  a  man  should  secretly 
vilify  those  for   whom   he   professed   to   entertain    a 

*  In  some  of  the  letters  published  in  the  present  volume  such 
discrepancies  may  be  seen.  Consider,  for  instance,  the  way  Francis 
speaks  of  Lord  Mansfield  in  his  letter  of  February  4th,  1766.  And 
perhaps  in  this  place  it  will  be  well  to  allude  to  the  contradictions 
between  the  picture  which  Junius  was  pleased  to  draw  of  himself 
and  the  real  personality  of  Francis;  for  this,  too,  has  been  used 
as  an  argument.  The  author  of  the  Junius — as  also  the  author  of 
the  Anti-Sejanus  and  Cato  Redivivus — letters  represents  himself  as 
a  man  getting  on  in  years,  possessed  of  sufficient  fortune  and 
position.  Francis,  of  course,  w^as  none  of  these  things.  But  what 
conceivable  motive  could  Junius  have  had  for  telling  the  truth 
about  himself? 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversy?  25 

friendship.  But  it  is  contrary  to  experience  that  an 
undiscoverable  being  should  have  been  so  allied  with 
Tilghman  and  Francis  as  to  have  taken  part  in 
their  little  escapades  of  the  winter  1 770-1 771  ;  that 
he  should  have  passed  a  proof  through  the  hand  of 
Philip  Francis  ;  that  he  should  have  had  the  same 
peculiarities  as  Francis  in  writing  and  made  the 
same  mistakes  as  Philip  Francis  in  spelling ;  and 
that  he  should  have  disappeared  into  the  vast  inane, 
leaving  no  other  trace  of  himself  behind. 

2.  The  Statements,  or  Reported  Statements, 
OF  Men  who  were,  or  might  have  been,  in 
A  Position  to  know  who  was  the  Real 
Junius,   and  who  declared  that  Francis  was 

NOT    HE. 

(«)  The  strongest  of  these  instances  is  that  of  the 
elder  Woodfall,  who  is  reported  by  his  son  to  have 
said :  "  To  my  certain  knowledge  Francis  is  not 
Junius."  In  Mr.  Rae's  hands  this  also  appears 
under  the  form  :  "  To  his  certain  knowledge  Francis 
did  not  write  a  line  of  Junius."  I  find  no  authority 
for  this  form  of  assertion. 

(d)  Lord  Lansdowne  is  said  to  have  told  Sir 
Robert  Philipps  that  he  knew  who  was  the  author  of 
Junius,  and  that  he  had  never  yet  been  publicly 
mentioned — "  nobody  has  suspected  him."  This  con- 
versation took  place  in  18 15.  Taylor,  it  is  true, 
published  a  pamphlet  identifying  Junius  with  Dr. 
Francis,  "  aided  by  his  son  Philip,"  as  early  as 
181 3.       But   the    work   which    directed    attention   to 


26  a  "Wote  on 

Francis — "  Junius  Identified  "  ^ — was  not  published  till 
1816.  In  one  place  Mr.  Fraser  Rae  says  that  until 
that  date  (18 16)  nobody  had  ever  suspected  Francis.^ 
In  another  place  he  writes  that  when  the  Junius 
letters  were  exciting  general  curiosity  they  were 
universally  ascribed  to  Edmund  Burke.  But  at  the 
place  where  he  cites  this  evidence  of  Lord  Lans- 
downe's  he  makes  a  contrary  statement  that  the 
name  of  Francis  had  often  been  suggested  as  that 
of  the  author  of  Junius's  letters.  I  am  strongly  of 
opinion  that  the  earlier  of  these  contradictory  state- 
ments are  the  more  correct. 

(c)  The  nephew  of  the  fourth  Lord  Aberdeen  (the 
Prime  Minister),  who  had  been  a  ward  of  the  younger 
Pitt,  stated  that  his  uncle  told  him  that  Pitt  told 
Lord  Aberdeen  (getting  his  knowledge  presumably 
from  his  father,  the  elder  Pitt)  that  he  knew  who 
Junius  was,  and  that  he  was  not  Francis. 

(d)  Lord  Grenville  told;  Lord  Sidmouth  that  he  knew 
the  writer  of  the  letters.  After  Grenville's  death  his 
widow  communicated  to  Abraham  Hayward  that  her 
husband  had  informed  her  the  writer  was  not  famous 
{^Athenaum,  January  29th,  1898,  p.  151,  ^/  seq.")? 

The  only  one  of  these  pieces  of  evidence  which 
seems  to  me   to  have   any  appreciable  value  is   that 

^  "  The  Identity  of  Junius  with  a  Distinguished  Living  Character 
Estabhshed"  is  the  full  title.  The  title  of  the  18 13  pamphlet  is 
"A  Discovery  of  the  Letters  of  Junius," 

*  AtheruBum,  May  4th,  1895. 

^  It  is  curious  that  the  writer  who  advances  this  argument  refuses 
to  accept  the  most  incidental  statement  by  Lady  Francis,  when  that 
affects  the  case  he  is  supporting. 


tbe  "Junius"  Controversy  27 

concerning  Woodfall.  But  we  ought  to  know  much 
more  than  we  do  of  the  circumstances  under  which 
the  words  were  spoken  before  we  can  estimate  its 
weight — whether  H.  S.  Woodfall  had  been  badgered 
in  order  to  make  him  fall  into  a  trap,  or  was  in  any 
similar  way  tempted  to  tell  a  great  lie  ;  or  whether, 
again,  as  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis  has  suggested,  his  words 
may  have  been  slightly  misrepresented,  and  he  may 
have  said :  "  Francis  was  not,  to  my  certain  know- 
ledge, the  author  of  Junius."  ^ 

3.  The  Evidence  of  Certain  Letters  signed 
"  Junius  "  which  could  not  have  been  written 
BY  Philip  Francis. 

A  certain  number  of  letters  signed  Junius  (three 
or  four),  most  of  them  previously  known  to  exist, 
have  been  recently  republished  by  Mr.  Fraser  Rae. 
As  most,  if  not  all,  of  these  were  improbably  written 
by  Francis,  and  one  at  least  could  not  possibly 
have  been  so,  it  is  assumed  that  they  absolutely 
dispose  of  the  Franciscan  theory.  The  paper  in 
which  one  of  these  letters  was  published  was  headed 

^  "The  story  of  his  having  told  his  son  that  *to  his  certain 
knowledge '  Francis  was  not  Junius  is  utterly  valueless  except  as 
evidence  that  he  knew  something  he  was  not  free  or  not  inclined 
to  reveal.  If,  indeed,  we  could  have  had  his  exact  words  in  their 
exact  order,  some  ingenious  form  of  cunning  denial  without  direct 
falsehood  might  have  been  traceable,  such  as  Francis  himself  used 
to  repel  inconvenient  inquiries,  and  such  as  we  find  suggested  to 
Woodfall  in  the  remarkable  private  note  No.  8  :  *  Suppose  you  were 
to  say,  "  We  have  some  reason  to  suspect  that  the  last  letter  signed 
Junius  in  this  paper  was  not  written  by  Junius " ' "  ("  Junius 
Revealed,"  p.  46). 


28  H  "Wote  on 

by  Mr.  Rae  "  Exit  Francis."  This  evidence  can  only 
be  conclusive  if  the  authenticity  of  these  letters  be 
admitted  beyond  dispute.  Before  1773  or  1774 
Junius's  letters  had  become  celebrated ;  there  was 
nothing  that  prevented  another  writer  from  adopting 
the  attractive  pseudonym — a  fact  which,  as  the  note  on 
the  preceding  page  demonstrates,  could  be  discounted 

by   Junius   himself.      If  Mr.    A has  written  an 

article  over  the  signature  "  Ignotus,"  no  one  dreams 
of  affirming  that  every  article  signed  "  Ignotus  "  must 

be   by   this   same    Mr.    A .      Yet,    in    fact,    Mr. 

Fraser  Rae  appears  to  adopt  this  line  of  argument. 
Those  who  refuse  to  accept  these  letters,  he  says 
in  one  place,  have  to  prove  "  a  negative,  and  I 
venture  to  defy  them  to  do  so."  And  he  continues : 
"  No  letter  signed  '  Junius '  during  the  period  when 
Junius  may  have  been  alive  can  be  rejected  without 
rejecting  the  whole." ^  This  is  perhaps  the  strangest 
mode  of  argument  that  I  have  ever  met  with.  It  is 
as  if  one  should  assert  that  every  line  attributed  to 
Homer  (or  to  Virgil  or  Shakespeare  or  whom  you  will), 
is  to  be  accepted  until  we  can  prove  by  documentary 
evidence  that  it  is  not  by  its  putative  author.  I  should 
have  thought  that  in  these  cases  there  was  such  a 
thing  as  the  evidence  of  style.  And  with  regard  to 
the  two  letters  on  which  Mr.  Fraser  Rae  lays  most 
weight — first,  one  addressed  to  Lord  Apsley  (Lord 
Bathurst) ;  secondly,  one  entitled  "Super  legale 
meritum  " — I  have  no  hesitation  whatever  in  asserting 
their  spuriousness. 

In  the  course  of  a  short  controversy  with  Mr.  Fraser 
^  Athenceum,  No.  3525. 


tbe  "Junius"  Controvcrsi?  29 

Rae  in  the  columns  of  the  Athenceum  I  did  express 
this  conviction  in  respect  to  the  Apsley  letter  ;  and 
Mr.  Fraser  Rae's  reply  is  interesting.  "  The  Apsley 
letter  is  pronounced  by  Mr.  Keary  to  be  manifestly 
spurious.  It  was  added  by  Wheble  to  the  edition  of 
Junius  which  he  brought  out  in  1775.  Its  authenti- 
city has  never  been  disputed  till  now." 

So  far  from  this  being  the  case,  the  authenticity  of 
Wheble's  letter  has  never  been  accepted.  Wheble 
was  known  to  be  a  bookseller  of  a  low  type  :  his 
edition  of  Junius  letters  has  never  been  reckoned 
authoritative  ;  and  in  George  Woodfall's  edition  of 
1 8 1 2 — in  a  sense  the  editio  princeps — this  letter  finds 
no  place.  And  certainly  George  Woodfall  did  not  err 
on  the  side  of  omission. 

I  think,  therefore,  until  these  pretended  Junius 
letters  are  supported  by  a  greater  weight  of  critical 
authority  than  has  yet  been  found  for  them,  they  may 
safely  be  neglected  from  the  body  of  evidence  against 
the  identification  of  Junius  with  Francis. 

4.  The  Discrepancy  between  the  Styles  of 
Junius  and  Francis. 

Finally,  it  is  asserted  that  Francis's  known  writings 
bear  no  sort  of  resemblance  in  style  to  those  of  Junius. 
This  assertion  appears  to  me  the  most  amazing 
possible.  And  Hay  ward  has  an  argument  which  tends 
in  exactly  the  opposite  direction.  In  fact,  the  majority 
who  have  disputed  the  identification  have  rather  set 
themselves  to  invalidate  the  argument  from  style  on 
the  other  side.     The  authority  of  Mr.  Lecky  may  be 


30  H  flote  on 

cited  against  the  assertion  that  Francis  could  not  have 
written  Junius  ;  and  as  Mr.  Lecky  reminds  us,  Burke 
called  Francis  the  "  prince  of  pamphleteers."  ^ 

These  are  all  the  heads  of  evidence  of  much  value 
which  I  have  been  able  to  collect  in  favour  of  the  so- 
called  anti-Franciscan  view.  And  that  there  are  not 
very  many  more  I  gather  from  the  constant  repetition 
of  these  ones,  and  from  the  introduction  of  many 
others  of  less  cogency  which  I  need  only  glance  at. 
Thus  (as  has  been  mentioned)  it  is  urged  that  Chabot 
made  a  mistake  in  a  will  case ;  again,  that  Taylor, 
the  first  who  identified  Francis  and  Junius,  occupied 
himself  with  explaining  the  number  of  the  Beast.  It 
is  suggested  rather  vaguely  (both  by  Mr.  Dilke 
and  Mr.  Fraser  Rae)  that  Francis  secretly  accumulated 
proofs  to  show  his  identity  with  Junius.  And  in  one 
place  it  is  suggested  quite  unwarrantably  that  in 
Twisleton's  and  Chabot's  work  the  reproduction  from 
the  dated  proof-sheet  has  been  tampered  with  (i.e. 
forged).^ 

All,  except  the  last,  are  legitimate  arguments  ;  and 
opinions  will  no  doubt  always  differ  about  their  cogency. 
But  I  must  also  glance  at  what  I  have  called  the  ne/as 
of  this  controversy — the  constant  attempt  to  prejudice 
the  question  by  representing  the  opposite  side  as 
wanting    either   in  sense  or   common   honesty.     Mr. 

^  I  may  quote  the  authority  of  my  friend  Mr.  G.  W.  Forrest,  CLE., 
author  of  the  "  Administration  of  Warren  Hastings,"  and  the  editor  of 
many  volumes  of  State  papers  from  the  Foreign  Office  at  Calcutta 
and  the  Bombay  Secretariat,  for  an  opinion  in  the  same  sense. 

'  See  p.  1 8  and   note. 


the  "Junius"  Controversy  31 

Leslie  Stephen  has  spoken  of  the  way  in  which 
Abraham  Hay  ward  always  treated  a  "  Franciscan." 
In  the  AthencBum,  among  many  similar  passages,  I  will 
instance  one  or  two,  taken  altogether  from  papers 
which  have  recently  appeared,  which  can  hardly  be 
considered  fair  representations  of  the  case,  (i)  "  The 
compiler  of  the  catalogue  of  Francis  correspondence 
[December,  1897]  appears  to  be  under  the  delusion 
that  Francis  and  Junius,  though  two  in  name,  are  one 
in  fact." — AthencBum,  December  25th,  1897.  (2)  "  The 
truth  is,  whenever  an  attempt  is  made  to  show  that 
Francis  is  Junius  the  result  has  been  to  prove  the 
contrary." — Ibid.  (3)  "  Those  who  have  made  up 
their  minds  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  is  Junius  may 
remain  deaf  to  argument  and  blind  to  evidence. 
Others,  who  weigh  fact  and  who  accept  demonstrated 
conclusions,  have  admitted  that  Francis  could  not  have 
been  Junius." — Idem,  January  8th,  1898.  (4)  And  of 
the  handwriting  :  "  The  truth  is,  the  handwriting  of 
the  two  men  differs  as  greatly  as  any  handwriting  can." 
— Idem,  February  19th,  1898. 

Let  me  add  that  I  profess  in  this  note  to  have 
produced  nothing  which  was  not  before  accessible.  All 
I  have  endeavoured  to  do  is  to  separate  those  proofs 
which  could  be  presented  in  a  form  appreciable  by  all, 
and  to  so  present  them  unmixed  with  other  matter. 
The  latest  book  on  the  subject,  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis's 
"Junius  Revealed"  (Longmans,  1894),  has  always 
seemed  to  me  to  set  the  matter  at  rest ;  and  in  his 
review  of  that  book  Professor  Goldwin  Smith  wrote : 
"England  has  hitherto  had  her  mystery  in  'Junius'; 
but  she  will  enjoy  it  no  more,  for  there  can  be   no 


$2        a  flotc  on  tbe  "^untus"  Controvcrsi? 

longer  any  shadow  of  doubt  that  the  '  Letters  '  were 
written  by  Sir  Philip  Francis."  It  has  only  been 
what  I  have  before  called  the  mistaken  loyalty  of 
the  AthencBum,  in  opening  its  pages  so  widely  to  the 
few  who  could  still  be  found  to  support  the  opposite 
theory,  which  has  prevented  the  question  from 
being  considered  as  closed. 

C.  F.   Keary. 


PERIOD     I. 

1754— 1772. 

The  correspondence  contained  in  the  following  volumes  Jias  been 
divided  into  six  Periods,  marked  in  the  early  part  by  epochs  in  the 
life  of  Philip  Francis. 

Period  I.  begins  with  letters  exchanged  between  Dr.  Francis  and 
his  son  Philip  while  the  latter  was  a  boy  at  St.  PauVs  School.,  and 
continued  during  Francis's  youth  and  the  period  of  his  secretaryship 
to  Lord  Kinnoul,  Ambassador-Extraordinary  to  the  Court  of  Lisbon 
(1760).  Philip  Francis s  engagement  to  Miss  Mackrabie  follows,  and 
his  marriage  (1762).  In  the  same  year  he  was  appointed  to  be  First 
Clerk  in  the  War  Offt.ce.  A  long  correspondence  ensues  between 
Francis  and  his  brother-in-law  Alexander  Mackrabie,  while  the  latter 
was  in  the  American  colony  (1767-71).  These  last  dates  are  those, 
as  it  happens,  of  the  issue  of  the  famous  '•'•Letters  of  funius"  so 
that  they  may  be  said  to  enclose  the  most  important  epoch  in  Philip 
Francis's  career.  One  passage  in  Mackrabie's  correspondence  shows 
that  he,  at  any  rate,  was  ignorant  of  the  authorship  of  the  "  letters." 

This  Period  closes  with  Francis's  retirement  from  the  War  Offtce. 


33 


PERIOD     I. 

1754—1772. 

The  Rev.  Philip  Francis,  D.D.,  to  his  Son  Philip 
(^t.  13),  who  was  then  just  beginning  his 
Career  as  a  Scholar  at  St.  Paul's  School. 

"I  do  not  write  to  my  dear  Phil,  merely  to  tell 
him  I  have  cheerfully  got  to  the  end  of  my  long 
Northern  Journey ;  nor  even  for  the  pleasure  (to  me 
the  greatest  pleasure)  of  hearing,  in  return,  of  his 
Health  and  Happiness.  This  letter,  I  hope,  will  open 
a  correspondence  between  us,  that  may  for  ever 
endear  us  to  each  other.  The  years  are  coming  on 
when  Youth  and  its  Activity,  when  Age  and  its  In- 
dolence, will  make  us  cold  companions,  and  very 
often  divide  us.  Let  us  not  wholly  depend,  my 
dearest  boy,  upon  the  Affections  of  Nature.  Let  us 
improve  them  into  a  mutual  friendship  and  esteem 
by  a  mutual  trust  and  confidence,  sincerity  and  truth. 
From  this  moment  I  offer  you  my  whole  Heart,  even 
all  its  weaknesses  and  frailties,  without  disguise, 
without  Reserve. 

"  Shall  I  expect  the  same  equal  Confidence  without 

bashfulness  and  timidity,  without  artifice  and  cunning  ? 

My  understanding  may  not  be  then  unuseful  to  you. 

It  was  purchased   by  follies,  errors,  misfortunes,  not 

35 


36  Ube  jfrancis  Xctters  [1754 

my  own  only,  but  those  of  others.  May  you  make 
a  better,  wiser,  happier,  use  of  it  than  I  have  done. 
But,  if  it  shall  happen  otherwise ;  if  you  shall  be 
carried  away  by  the  Passions  and  their  Wanderings, 
though  the  World  shall  condemn,  your  Father  will 
forgive  you,  will  support,  and  encourage  you  to 
happiness.  Give  him  your  friendship,  and  depend 
on  his :  let  us  love  one  another.  Not  to  make  this 
letter  tedious  even  in  its  affection,  let  me  beg  to 
hear  from  you.  Tell  me  whether  you  are  still  pleased 
with  your  Situation  ;  or  can  I  add  anything  to  your 
happiness  ?  (Do  you  often  drink  tea  with  Sally  ^  ? 
does  she  take  care  of  you  ?)  If  Mr.  Dormer  be  in 
town,  go  some  holiday  morning,  and  breakfast  with 
him.  Tell  him  I  live  in  a  palace  with  a  French 
cook,  French  wines,  and  English  hospitality.  Could 
I  say  more,  I  would  write  to  him.  If  there  be  any 
letters  for  me  at  Home  send  them  under  a  cover  to 
Francis  Delaval  Esq.,  at  Seaton  near  Newcastle, 
Northumberland.  Farewell,  my  dear  boy!  May 
neither  distance  nor  time  divide  us ;  nor  can  they, 
while  Affection  and  Esteem  unite  us. 

"  I  am  ever  yours, 

"  Phil.  Francis." 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

"Sep.  26,  1754. 

"  I  sincerely  rejoice  with  my  dearest  Boy  on  his 
being  moved  to  the  head  class :  not  so  much  for 
the  Honour,  as  that  you  will  have  it  in  your  power 
to  make  another  trial  of  your  own  Temper  ;  whether 

^  A  servant  of  Dr.  Francis,  much  devoted  to  Philip. 


1754]  XTbe  jfrancts  letters  37 

the  Lads  you  complain  of,  are  really  the  sauciest 
Fellows  breathing,  or  whether  you  have  not  been 
saucy  enough  to  provoke  them.  Oh  !  my  dear  Phil, 
rather  chuse  to  be  beloved  than  envied.  Make  use 
of  your  abilities  to  purchase  Friends.  Reflect  a  little 
how  few  will  acknowledge  the  superiority  that  hurts  and 
pains  them  by  the  insolence  of  exerting  it.  Who  would 
not  rather  sit  down  with  his  own  honest  darkness,  than 
be  insulted  by  the  impertinent  light  of  others  ?  In 
your  present  Class  remember  it  will  be  as  contemptible 
to  be  left  behind,  as  it  was,  perhaps,  unkind  to  run 
away  from  the  Lads  of  the  Form  below  you." 

There  are  no  letters  in  the  Family  Budget  from 
young  Philip  to  his  father  during  this  period. 

When  Philip  left  St.  Paul's  he  received  the 
appointment  of  Junior  Clerk  in  the  Secretary  of 
State's  Office.  This  was  given  him  by  a  friend  of 
his  father's,  Lord  Holland ;  and  when  he  was  eighteen, 
through  the  interest  of  other  political  friends  of 
Dr.  Francis — viz.  Mr.  Wood,  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  and  Mr.  Calcraft — he  was  chosen  to  be 
the  Secretary  of  General  Bligh  when  the  latter  was 
sent  upon  an  expedition  to  attack  Cherbourg  and 
the  French  coast.  Philip  writes  to  his  father  from 
Portsmouth  before  the  expedition  sailed  : — 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Father. 

"  Portsmouth, 
"24/A  Jtily,  1758. 
"  Dear  Sir, 

"  I  arrived  here  last  night  at  8  o'clock  after 

a  very  rainy  journey  ;   it   thundered  violently  all  the 


38  XCbe  ifrancts  Xetters  [1758 

afternoon.  I  immediately  waited  on  the  General, 
who  received  me  very  well,  and  I  shall  breakfast 
with  him  this  morning.  He  was  sorry  he  could  not 
lodge  me  in  the  same  House  with  him,  but  every 
bed  was  occupied. 

"  The  troops  are  embarking  with  all  speed.  I 
know  nothing  of  this  Place,  having  not  yet  seen  it 
by  daylight,  but  I  am  going  to  try  my  Fortune  and 
shall  write  to  you  every  day. 

"  I  am  yours  very  sincerely, 

"  P.  Francis. 

"  William  says  he  does  not  know  whether  he  lay 
on  a  bed  or  not  last  night. 

"  Direct  to  me  at  the  Vine,  Portsmouth." 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 
"My  dear  Phil, 

"  I  send  you  Mr.  Merries  List  of  your  Fees. 
You  will  think  proper  to  keep  it,  as  a  little  kind  of 
voucher  in  case  of  mistakes.  Mr.  Bryant  never  took 
any.  A  foolish  Generosity,  and  not  to  be  imitated 
in  this  Age  of  Wisdom.  We  should  take  as  much 
care  of  the  Interests  of  our  Successors  in  Office,  as 
of  our  Posterity  in  the  Future." 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

"London, 
"  ^^th  July,  1758. 

"  My  dear  Phil, 

..."  Let  me  thank  you  for  your  letters  and  hope 
you  have  received  mine,  with  your  Table  of  Fees. 
"  You  know  me  all  affection,  your, 

♦•  Phil  Francis. 


1758]  XCbe  ifrancis  Xetters  39 

"  We  talk  here  of  the  King  of  P's  Generalship  : — 
that  he  has  got  between  Count  Daun  and  his  great 
magazine.  May  I  tell  you  that  you  begin  your  Letters 
too  near  the  top  ;  that  to  every  body  but  me  you 
should  write  words  at  length, — &,  rec*^,  &c  ;  and 
should  begin  with  Capitals.  You  will  forgive  me. 
Pray  remember  your  compliments  to  Mr.  Calcraft. 
He  surely  deserves  your  attention.     Farewell ! " 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Father. 

"Essex,  Portland  Road, 
"August  19/A,  1758. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

' '  I  wrote  to  you  on  the  1 6th  by  the  Success. 
She  did  not  sail  till  yesterday  morning.  We  are  now 
within  a  quarter  of  a  Mile  of  English  land.  What 
would  I  give  to  go  ashore,  to  taste  fresh  Butter  !  We 
shall  anchor  here  in  expectation  of  a  fair  wind  ;  and 
then  for  France  again.  It  is  generally  agreed  we 
have  done  the  French  above  ;^i, 200,000  worth  of 
damage.  Fifty  three  mines  were  sprung  at  Cherbourg 
and  the  forts  near  it ;  with  our  own  Powder ;  103 
iron  Cannon  and  3  iron  mortars  destroyed  ;  twenty  two 
brass  Cannon  and  2  brass  mortars  shipped ;  about 
thirty  vessels  burnt  in  the  Harbour ;  contributions 
exacted  to  near  ;!^3,ooo ;  a  large  sum  considering 
the  poverty  of  the  place,  and  the  additional  losses  it 
sustained  from  pillaging  &c. 

**  I  send  you  a  copy  of  two  Inscriptions  found  on 
the  Basin.  Should  we  succeed  in  our  next  attempt, 
the  General's  recommendation  may  be  of  use  to  me  ; 
and  at  present  I  think  I  am  well  in  his  Opinion.     At 


4©  Ube  Francis  Xetters  [1758 

any   rate   this   expedition    will    be    of   the    greatest 
Advantage  to  me. 

"  We  hear  by  the  newspapers  and  private  letters, 
that  all  our  Success  is  attributed  to  the  Commodore ; 
I  assure  you  he  had  no  other  hand  in  it,  than  in 
covering  the  landing  and  re-embarkation  ;  which  he 
performed  with  the  greatest  Judgment.  Pray  undeceive 
people. 

"  I  am,  dear  sir,  yours  truly, 

"  P.  Francis. 

"  My  compliments  attend  Mr.  Calcraft.  I  really 
have  not  been  able  to  keep  any  Journal  since  we 
landed.  What  happened  before  was  not  worth 
sending.  The  Maidstone  yesterday  took  a  French 
privateer,  near  Alderney.  I  shall  share  the  Prize- 
money.  Our  loss  on  shore  does  not  amount  to 
twenty  men." 

From  Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

"  London, 
''August  24,  1758. 

**  Most  heartily  fatigued  my  dear  Phil  with  printing 
your  General's  manifesto  till  five  this  morning. 

"  I  have  hardly  spirits  to  write  to  you,  or  to  thank 
you  for  the  pleasure  of  your  letters.  Let  me 
however  wish  you  health  and  success.  As  for  money 
we  shall  never  want,  while  we  get  with  Honour  and 
spend  with  Frugality.  Remember  my  dearest  Phil, 
but  I  know  you  will  remember,  that  a  punctual 
Honesty  is  due  to  our  Enemies,  nay  more.  Generosity, 
Compassion  and  Protection.  Consult  your  heart 
only,   for,  reasonable  creatures  as  we  are,  our  heads 


1758]  Ube  jfrancis  Xettets  41 

impose  upon  us  with  the  examples  of  others — the 
Rights  in  an  Enemy's  Country  perhaps  with  the  name 
of  Perquisites  &c.  You  will  be  assured  that  my 
Affection  alone  makes  me  talk  thus,  my  concern  for 
your  Reputation  and  the  tenderness  with  which  I 
shall  ever  wish  for  your  Welfare. 

"  I  am  ever  yours, 

"  P.  F." 

After  an  interval  of  two  years  the  correspondence 
between  Dr.  Francis  and  his  son  was  renewed  on  the 
occasion  of  the  latter  (aet.  19)  being  made  Secretary 
to  Lord  Kinnoul,  when  that  nobleman  was  sent  by 
Pitt  on  an  Embassy  to  the  Portuguese  Court. 

From  Portsmouth,  Philip  writes  to  his  Father. 

'■^  Feb.  14,  1760. 

'•  My  dear  Sir, 

"  There  does  not  appear  the  least  likelihood 
of  our  ever  leaving  this  miserable  Place.  The  winds 
are  not  satisfied  with  detaining  us  here,  they  blow 
Tempests  against  us.  However,  my  Lord  keeps  me 
so  constantly  employed  that  the  time  is  far  from 
hanging  on  hand.  I  ought  to  tell  you  that  I  have  every 
reason  to  think  I  shall  live  very  happily  with  him. 
It  must  give  you  pleasure  to  know  I  am  so  well 
situated.  My  servant  John,  too,  pleases  me  extremely. 
Lord  Strathmore  and  Mr.  Pitt  ^  are  most  amiable 
young  men,  so  that  I  cannot  travel  in  better  company. 

^  Thomas  Pitt,  nephew  of  Lord  Chatham.  He  and  Lord  Strath- 
more together  wrote  an  account  of  their  adventures  in  Portugal  which 
exists  in  MS.  in  the  British  Museum  (MSS.  5845,  xviii.  B.  f.  219). 


4«  Ubc  jfrancts  Xcttcrs  [1760 

We    have    nothing    new    here,    nor,    indeed,    could 
expect  anything  from  such  a  Kennell. 
"  My  best  respects  to  Mr.  Calcraft, 

"  I  am,  dear  Sir,  always  yours, 

"  Phil.  Francis." 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Portsmouth, 
"  21  Feb.,  1760. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

"  We  went  on  board  the  Windsor,  Captain 
Cleveland — last  Sunday,  as  I  informed  you.  After 
going  through  the  utmost  misery  from  Calms  and 
contrary  Winds,  we  were  obliged  to  land  again  on 
Tuesday  night.  I  never  felt  more  real  pleasure  than 
in  once  more  visiting  this  wretched  Place.  The  wind 
is  fair  again  this  morning,  but  I  cannot  think  of  the 
ship   Windsor  without  Horror  and  detestation. 

"  I  am  still  strong  in  Bank.  My  only  expense  has 
been  in  Cloaths,  and  washing  ;  for  I  was  obliged  to 
make  two  shirts  serve.  But  I  cannot  thank  you 
enough  for  this  attention  to  me. 

"  The  people  here  are  greatly  interested  in  Lord 
Charles  Hay's  trial. 

"  I  am,  Dear  Sir,  always  yours, 

'•  Phil.  Francis." 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  My  Dear  Phil, 

"  From  Lord  Kinnoul's  universal  Character 
I  never  doubted  your  Happiness  in  his  service,  neither 
do  I  doubt  that  your  attention   to   please   and   your 


1760]  xrbe  francls  Xettcrs  43 

assiduity  will  continue  to  deserve  it.  I  truly  rejoice 
with  you  in  your  present  Situation.  Yet  do  not  think 
me  whimsical  if  I  confess  that  I  have  greater  pleasure 
in  hearing  you  are  pleased  with  your  Servant.  It 
looks  as  if  he  were  pleased  with  you  :  and  believe 
me  Phil,  to  make  our  inferiors  happy  is  a  better 
proof  of  merit  than  to  be  made  happy  by  our 
superiors. 

"  Ever  yours, 

"  P.  Francis. 

"  For  Cloaths  read  Clothes — For  Kennell  read 
Kennel,  for  behaves  read  behaves  himself  and  then 
read  Johnson.     Fare  well !  " 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Lisbon, 
"March  yyth,  1760. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

"  Lord  Kinnoul  had  his  first  Audience  of 
the  King  on  the  2  ist,  the  only  event  of  any  Importance 
that  has  happened  since  my  letter  of  the   loth  inst. 

"  Our  time  has  hitherto  been  employed  in  making 
and  receiving  visits  of  Ceremony,  in  which  the  Secretary 
bears  a  principal  and  very  laborious  part. 

"  However,  I  had  the  satisfaction  of  gratifying 
my  curiosity  to  see  the  Cond^  d'Oeyras  Carvalho,^ 
who  governs  the  Kingdom  in  a  most  despotic 
manner. 

^  Sebastien  Jos^  de  Carvalho  e  Mello,  Marquis  of  Pombal,  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Joseph  I.  and  sometimes  called  the  Sully  of 
Portugal.     The  Jesuits  were  his  bitter  enemies. 


44  Ubc  ifrancts  Xettcrs  [1760 

"His  Influence  over  the  mind  of  a  very  weak 
prince  and  his  headlong  Resolution  in  the  management 
of  one  great  affair  have  gained  him  a  Reputation  in 
England  which  people  here  think  he  by  no  means 
deserves. 

"The  King  and  all  the  Royal  Family  received 
Lord  Kinnoul  in  the  most  gracious  manner.  They 
say  such  a  Reception  has  not  been  known  at  this 
court.  The  speech  he  made  was  accepted  as  an 
entire  Satisfaction  for  the  affair  of  Cape  Lagos. ^  .  .  . 
The  Weather  is  prodigiously  hot,  but  as  everything 
here  is  conducted  in  a  manner  diametrically  opposite 
to  reason,  common  sense,  and  the  practice  of  every 
other  Country,  shade  is  despised  and  not  a  Tree  to 
be  seen  except  Olives  which  afford  none.  I  had 
.always  a  very  bad  Opinion  of  this  Nation,  but  at 
present  I  have  entirely  altered  it.  Instead  of  finding 
them  moderately  execrable,  I  see  that  all  our  ideas 
of  what  is  superlatively  bad,  come  far  short  of  the 
qualifications  of  a  Portuguese.  Imprimis,  I  take  for 
granted  they  come  into  the  world  the  wrong  way ; 
however,  certain  'tis,  they  rock  their  Children,  in  the 
Cradle,  heads  and  points,  not  sideways.  This  in- 
genious method  seems  happily  calculated  to  prevent 
their  sleeping  by  any  accident.  The  Boys  go  to  school 
in  heavy  Cloaks,  which  cover  all  but  their  eyes,  and 
always  march  with  a  becoming  gravity.  This  fashion 
of  walking  prevails  so  strongly,  that  they  will  rather 
suffer  themselves   to   be    run-over,    than    discompose 

^  The  Court  of  Lisbon  had  taken  offence  at  Admiral  Boscawen's 
capture  of  the  French  fleet  of  Admiral  de  la  Clue  under  this 
fortress. 


MARIA   ANNA   VICTORIA,   INFANTA   OF   SPAIN, 

AFTKKWARUS    QUEKN    OK    JOSEPH     I.     OF    PORTUGAL. 


To  face  page  44.] 


i76o]  ZCbe  ifrancis  Xctters  4S 

themselves  by  stirring  out  of  the  way.  The  first  day 
I  went  out,  my  chaise  ran  over  a  man  and  two 
Boys.  The  postilion  took  no  kind  of  notice  of  it, 
nor  even  turned  back  his  Head.  I  endeavoured  to 
stop  and  get  out  but  could  not  make  the  driver 
understand  me.  It  was  happy  for  me,  he  did  not. 
The  least  expression  of  Humanity  or  concern  for  the 
sufferers  might  have  been  fatal  to  me.  The  Mob 
would  certainly  have  murdered  me,  whereas  by  per- 
sisting boldly,  they  either  think  one  in  the  right,  or 
are  intimidated.  This  is  a  sample  of  the  Portuguese 
manner  of  thinking.  If  a  servant  offends  we  must 
not  strike,  but  kill  him.  He  will  assuredly  revenge 
a  blow  by  assassinating  his  master,  without  running 
the  least  risque  of  Punishment  whereas  his  Death 
would  be  attended  with  no  sort  of  Inconvenience. 
The  King  is  a  Beggar.  His  troops  Beggars.  The 
nobility  utter  Beggars.  But  no  term  is  poor 
enough  to  express  the  Beggary  of  the  Plebs. 
Let  it  suffice  to  say  that  half  a  Moidore  would 
purchase  every  crime  that  even  a  Portuguese  could 
commit. 

"  This  city  affords  a  most  shocking  and  astonishing 
scene  of  Ruins.  All  the  handsomest  part  of  it 
destroyed  by  the  Earthquake.  We  ride  through  the 
Remains  of  the  Town  with  fear  and  trembling.  The 
people  are  so  perverse  or  dilatory,  that  they  have 
left  whole  ranges  of  walls  standing  unsupported, 
which  frequently  fall  and  crush  the  Passengers  who 
walk  under  them  quite  unconcerned. 

"  I  think  this  the  dullest  place  I  ever  saw.  No 
kind  of  Diversion  going  forward,  especially  in  Lent. 


46  Ubc  Francis  Xetters  [1760 

We  visit  for  ever.  I  am  perfectly  well  and  live  in 
great  state  and  am  highly  considered  as  an  appendix 
to  his  Excellency. 

"  Yours  most  sincerely, 

"  P.  F." 

Dr.  Francis  to  his  Son. 

"March  25/A,  1760. 

"  My  dear  Phil, 

"  I  write  to  you  merely  because  it  is 
Tuesday  night.  No ;  'tis  something  more ;  to  tell 
you  I  am  well,  and  wait  with  Impatience  to  hear  of 
your  progress  in  health  and  happiness.  I  send  you 
four  days  of  Lord  George  Sackville's  trial.  I  prithee 
tell  me  you  are  entertained  with  it,  for  I  purchase 
it  at  a  very  severe  rate.  Five  hours  in  the  morning 
in  a  room  as  hot,  as  the  dungeon  of  Calcutta,  and 
as  highly  perfum'd  as  whole  Lisbon.  Then  writing 
till  midnight,  like — No ;  your  Office  in  Circular 
Letter  time,  has  nothing  like  it. 

"  Farewell — My  Love,  would  it  were  like  his  own, 
to  Mr.  Allen.^ 

"  Yours, 

"  P.  Francis. 

"  To  give  you  a  specimen  of  what  I  wish  our 
future  Correspondence — Sally  desires  to  be  re- 
membered to  you  with  her  best  face-washing  com- 
pliments. The  prettiest  Horse  in  England  has 
forgotten  to  stumble.  Poor  Puss,  has  been  under  a 
violent    suspicion    of  madness,    and    was    very    near 

^  English  Chaplain  at  Lisbon,  a  relative  of  Dr.  Francis. 


1760]  XCbe  jfrancis  Xetters  47 

being  hanged  for  being  out  of  her  wits.     Now  what 
are  all    the    news   of  States  and   Kingdoms    to    this 
intelligence  of  the  heart  and  its  affections  ? 
•*  Once  more — Farewell." 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Lisbon, 
"  14/A  April,  1760. 

"...  The  character  I  gave  you  of  this  Nation 
in  my  last  was  perhaps  too  harsh  ;  .  .  .  ingratitude, 
cowardice,  and  revenge  are  the  Foibles  of  the 
Portuguese.   .  .  . 

*'  The  more  ridiculous  parts  of  their  character  are 
exactly  described  in  Gulliver's  account  of  Lagado 
under  Laputa,  '  The  houses  very  strangely  built  and 
most  of  them  out  of  repair.  The  people  in  the 
street  walk  slow,  look  wild,  their  eyes  fixed,  and  are 
generally  in  rags,'  &c." 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Lisbon, 
"  17  May,  1760. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

"  Last  Thursday  our  Ambassador  gave  a 
grand  Entertainment  to  several  of  the  first  nobility 
here.  For  Ignorance,  Beggary,  Meanness,  and  Pride 
they  certainly  have  not  their  fellows  in  Christendom. 
An  English  tailor  is  a  fine  gentleman  in  appearance 
compared  to  the  first  Duke  in  this  land.  Basker- 
ville's  Virgil  was  produced  after  Dinner,  but  by  no 
means  attracted  their  attention.  Very  few  of  them 
knew  in  what  language  it  was  written.     Upon  being 


48  XCbc  fvancis  Xctters  [1760 

asked  if  I  understood  Latin  I  was  unfortunate  enough 
to  say  I  did.  But  I  fear  it  has  lessened  my  credit 
among  them,  for  I  had  certainly  won  some  of  their 
hearts  by  gorging  them  at  dinner  till  the  Tears  ran 
down  their  Cheeks.  This  is  literally  a  fact.  Of 
learning,  or  any  other  accomplishment  whatever  they 
have  no  idea.  Riding  is  their  chief  study  and  in 
that  they  pretend  to  excel.  Among  this  crew  of 
Wretches  I  must  except  two  Noblemen  ^  with  whom 
you  are  acquainted.  Their  superior  understanding 
and  merit  has  produced  an  Effect  very  natural  in 
Portugal.  They  are  feared  and  consequently  ill  used 
at  Court,  and  despised  and  hated  by  the  rest  of  the 
Nobility.  You  have  heard  that  the  Portuguese  have 
a  superstitious  notion  of  their  King  Sebastian's 
returning  and  governing  the  Kingdom  one  day  or 
other.  They  are  now  perfectly  satisfied  that 
Sebastian  Jose  [Carvalho]  was  the  man  who  fought 
in  Africa  ;  some  indeed  are  of  another  opinion — that 
it  is  the  Devil  himself  who  has  been  gracious  enough 
to  honour  Portugal  with  his  Presence  and  now 
governs  his  best  beloved  as  devils  should  be  governed. 
I  am  of  the  latter  opinion.  I  thank  you  for  your 
kind  inquiries  about  the  state  of  my  Finances.  As 
I  am  at  no  kind  of  expense  except  to  buy  common 
necessaries  for  myself  I  am  as  yet  tolerably  strong, 
washing  produces  a  constant  demand.  I  go  to  a 
Concert  sometimes,  and  that  is  the  only  pleasure  I 
pay  for.  There  are  some  fine  performers  and  singers 
from  Italy  here. 

"  John  is   a   very  worthy  fellow  and   an   excellent 
^  The  Vicomte  de  Ponte  de  Lima  and  his  son. 


i76o]  Ube  jfrancig  Xetters  49 

servant.  My  compliments  to  Sally  and  the  horse. 
I  flatter  myself  the  cat  still  exists,  as  you  make  no 
mention  of  his  exit. 

'*  I  am,   Dear  Sir, 

"  Yours  most  truly, 

"  Phil:  Francis. 

"  It's  so  burning  hot  at  this  moment,  that  I  can 
scarce  wag  a  finger. 

"  My  best  compliments  to  Mr.  Calcraft, — I  hope 
Mr.   Fox  and  his  family  are  well. 

"  Remember  me  to  all  friends." 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

"...  Merely  by  the  hurry  of  your  Secretary 
in  your  last  '  asked  if  I  understood  Latin '  read 
whether. 

"You  say,  you  will  bring  as  much  Calcavella  as 
you  can.  Pray  do,  but  pray  recollect  the  difference 
between  bringing  and  carrying — a  difference  of  old 
dispute  between  us,  cloths,  intirely — vide  Johnson — 
Forgive  me,  my  dearest  Phil — I  see  not  these  little 
faults  in  others." 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Lisbon, 
"%thjune,  1760. 

"  My  dear  Sir, 

"  I  am  so  much  fatigued  with  the  Business 
and  the  Ceremonies  which  have  employed  us  this 
week  past,  that  I  cannot  write  a  line  to  anybody 
but  you,  by  this  Paquet,  and  to  you  I  can  only  say 
that  I  am  perfectly  well  and   tolerably  happy.     Last 

4 


5©  ^be  francis  Xcttcrs  [1760 

Friday  being  the  King's  Birthday  we  appeared  at 
Court  in  Gala.  The  silk  ^  arrived  time  enough  from 
England  and  is  prodigiously  handsome.  There  was 
nothing  equal  to  it  at  Court.  At  the  same  time  I 
must  allow,  that  they  are  not  very  elegant  in  their 
clothes.  A  long  expected  Marriage  was  then  declared 
to  the  great  and  universal  Satisfaction  of  the  whole 
Kingdom.  Don  Pedro,  the  King's  brother  has 
married  the  Princess  of  Brazils,  his  niece,  by  which 
the  succession  is  fixed  with  this  Family.  Ever  since 
we  have  been  here  there  have  been  disputes  between 
us  and  the  French  Ambassador  about  Precedence. 
On  Friday  we  routed  him  entirely,  and  our  victory 
was  the  more  remarkable  from  the  splendour  of  a 
Birthday  and  from  a  conviction  the  Portuguese  are 
in  that  our  Embassy  effected  this  fortunate  marriage. 
While  we  were  congratulating  and  embracing  every- 
body we  met  upon  this  occasion,  he  and  his  Faction 
were  struck  with  utter  Astonishment  and  Dismay, 
nor  did  they  appear  to  take  the  least  part  in  the 
general  joy — consequently  their  behaviour  was  ex- 
tremely offensive. 

"  I  am,  Dear  Sir, 

"  Yours  most  sincerely, 

"  Phil:  Francis." 

Philip  Francis  wrote  afterwards  in  his  autobiography 
the  following  account  of  this  incident : — 

"  We  found  a  French  Ambassador  at  Lisbon,  whose 
Organs  were  very  differently  constituted  from    ours. 
It  was  not  possible  for  the  French  nation  to  be  more 
*   Viz.  a  suit  of  silk  clothes  sent  from  England. 


1760]  TLbc  jfrancis  Xetters  51 

truly  represented  than  by  the  Comte  de  Merle.  He 
was  lively,  vain,  insolent  and  polite.  With  respect 
to  us  the  most  unlucky  part  of  his  Character  was  his 
Penetration.  He  saw  in  a  moment  what  sort  of  a 
Rival  he  had  to  contend  with.  ...  He  asserted  that 
he  had  an  indisputable  right  to  take  the  Pas  of  the 
English  Ambassador  on  all  Occasions  whatsoever  : 
that  the  point  had  either  never  been  disputed  by 
us,  or  that  it  had  been  formally  yielded  and  did  not 
admit  of  a  question  ;  and  that  he  was  determined  at 
all  events  to  maintain  the  Honour  of  the  crown  of 
France.  It  was  in  vain  for  the  Portuguese  Ministers 
to  propose  expedients  to  a  man  of  this  Temper.  He 
would  not  listen  to  anything  that  conveyed  the  most 
distant  idea  of  Equality.  The  Question  was,  which 
of  them  should  go  first  into  the  King's  Closet.  The 
French  Ambassador  always  took  his  Station  at  the 
door  till  it  was  opened,  and  would  suffer  no  man  to 
enter  before  him.  In  this  situation  Lord  K.  had 
no  honourable  remedy  but  to  go  up  to  the  door  and 
remove  the  French  Ambassador  by  Force.  The 
other  would  of  course  have  drawn  his  sword  and  a 
battle  must  have  ensued  between  them  in  the  King 
of  Portugal's  Presence.  Lord  Kinnoul  had  too  much 
discretion  to  run  the  risque  of  such  an  Extremity.  He 
stated  the  case  pretty  fairly  to  Mr.  Pitt  who  in  return 
sent  him  Orders  in  the  King's  name  to  assert  the 
Precedence  due  to  the  Crown  of  England  and  dispute 
the  Pas  with  the  French  Ambassador.  ...  At  last 
however  the  Cond^  de  Oeyras  [Marquis  de  Pombal] 
helped  him  in  some  degree  out  of  his  difficulties  by 
obtaining  a  prior  Audience   for   him  on    the  day  on 


5a  Ube  jfrancts  Xettcrs  [1760 

which  the  marriage  of  the    Princess  of  Brazils  with 
her  Uncle  was  declared. 

As  the  Audience  was  granted  at  an  unusual  hour, 
the  points  in  dispute  with  the  French  Ambassador 
never  came  in  issue." 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Lisbon, 
"  22  June,  1760. 

. "  This  country  produces  nothing  new  except  some 
fresh  instances  of  Carvalho's  unbounded  power,  and 
of  his  headlong  violence  in  using  it.  He  hated  the 
Cardinal  Aiaccioli  the  Pope's  Nuncio  here,  and  was 
always  contriving  means  to  disgrace  him.  Upon 
pretence  that  he  did  not  illuminate  his  house  upon 
the  late  Marriage,  the  King  last  Sunday  sent  a  guard 
to  his  palace,  and  a  letter  ordering  him  to  quit  the 
city  immediately,  and  the  Kingdom  within  four  days. 
Such  unprecedented  outrage  offered  to  a  Nuncio  and 
a  Cardinal,  is  a  very  Phenomenon  in  this  most  Popish 
country,  and  will  assuredly  cause  a  rupture  with  the 
Pope,  already  gorged  with  Jesuits  ; — Carvalho  con- 
trives to  send  his  Holiness  a  fresh  cargo  of  them 
every  week. 

"  The  Portuguese  hang  their  heads,  and  say  that  the 
next  thing  they  expect  is  to  be  sent  to  hear  Prayers 
at  Lord  Kinnoul's  Chapel. 

"  Farewell  yours  ever, 

"  Phil  :  Francis. 

•'  My  best  compts.  to  Mr.  Calcraft,  Mr.  Wade, 
Mr.  Adair,  My  Uncle  and  Cousin  &c.,  To  Sally  and 
the  Cat." 


1760]  Ubc  jprancis  Xetters  53 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Lisbon, 
"July  24,  1760. 

"  The  Portuguese  women  in  general  are  far  from 
being  handsome.  In  the  first  place  the  best  of  them 
are  but  pretty  Jewesses  of  whom  some  very  few  are 
really  pretty. 

**  I  should  not  neglect  to  inform  you  that  on  the 
second  of  this  month  the  Ambassador  gave  a  most 
magnificent  and  splendid  Entertainment  to  the  Ministers 
and  Nobility  belonging  to  the  Court  upon  occasion 
of  the  Marriage.  A  noble  dinner,  a  fine  concert 
for  the  Ladies  and  at  night  some  elegant  Fireworks 
exhibited  in  the  garden  where  22  swivel  guns  were 
planted  on  an  eminence  to  announce  the  healths. 
The  House  was  handsomely  illuminated  as  were  all 
those  of  the  English  Merchants  here.  All  Lisbon, 
I  believe,  was  assembled  to  see  us.  At  12  O'clock 
the  company  sat  down  to  a  Supper  prepared  with  a 
profusion  and  elegance  equal  to  the  rest  of  the  day. 
Open  house  was  kept  and  my  Lord  Kinnoul  was 
glad  to  come  off  for  ;i^65o.     It  did  us  great  honour. 

"On  Sunday  the  13th  inst.  I  was  invited  by  Sir 
Harry  Frankland  to  see  a  Grand  Bull  Feast  from 
his  Barraca  or  Lodge.  To  have  a  true  idea  of  the 
Portuguese  you  should  be  acquainted  with  this  their 
favourite  Diversion.  I  think  I  shall  not  be  severe 
upon  them  when  I  say  it  is  the  most  abominable 
entertainment  that  ever  was  invented,  but  at  the 
same  time  I  confess  nothing  could  be  better  adapted 
to  the  genius  and  disposition  of  the  Spectators. 

**  I   shall  not  attempt  to  tell  you  what  it  filled  me 


54  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1760 

with  Horror  and  Sickness  to  see.  When  the  Bull  is 
unable  to  attack  he  is  delivered  over  to  the  Cavaliers 
servants  for  the  diversion  of  the  crowd.  What  follows 
is  too  shocking  for  anything  but  the  eye  or  ear  of 
a  Portuguese. 

"  I  am  dear  Sir  yours  very  truly, 

"P.  Francis." 

Sir  Harry  Frankland,  mentioned  in  this  letter, 
was  in  Lisbon  on  the  day  of  the  great  earthquake 
of  November  ist,  1755,  and  had  a  narrow  escape, 
recorded  thus : — 

"  Sir  Harry  Frankland,  who  was  riding  in  a  chaise 
through  a  narrow  street  when  the  shock  began,  was 
saved  by  leaping  into  a  doorway  near  the  spot.  Both 
the  driver  of  his  carriage  and  the  mules  were  killed 
by  the  fall  of  stones  from  the  neighbouring  houses." 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Father. 

"  Lisbon, 
"Aug.  22nd,  1760. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

"  Since  my  last  of  the  4th  Inst,  nothing  of 
any  consequence  has  happened  here,  except  that  an 
entire  rupture  with  the  Pope  has  been  declared  by 
three  royal  Edicts,  forbidding  all  communication 
between  Portugal  and  Rome.  Besides  the  weakness 
of  that  See,  His  Holiness's  Ministry  are  by  no  means 
able  to  vie  with  Carvalho  in  cunning ;  and  the  low 
Politics  of  Italian  Priests,  if  opposed  to  regularity 
and  firmness,  are  easily  overturned.  They  say  this 
Kingdom  will  save  about  two  hundred  thousand 
pounds  by  the  Rupture,  which  used  to  be  sent  annually 


i76o]  xrbe  jfrancts  Xetters  ss 

to  Rome  to  purchase  Bulls  and  dispensations.  It 
seems  that  this  Ministry  is  determined  that  whatever 
accommodation  shall  be  hereafter  concluded,  such 
impoverishing  abuse  shall  never  again  be  admitted. 
However  advantageous  such  disputes  among  the 
Catholic  powers  may  be  for  England,  I  very  much 
question  whether  it  be  our  real  interest  that  Portugal 
should  recover  from  the  Ignorance  and  Dependence 
in  which  she  is  sunk. 

"  The  silk  Fabric  here,  which  since  the  Earth- 
quake had  three  hundred  workmen,  is  so  much  de- 
clined that  at  present  it  has  literally  but  three,  and 
everything  in  the  Country  seems  to  flourish  in  the 
same  proportion. 

"  I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  very  sincerely, 

"  Phil:  Francis." 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

"Sept.  1 6,  1760. 
"  My  last,  of  last  Tuesday,  was  a  conversation 
between  Mr.  Wood  and  Mr.  Dobson,  to  whom  you 
are  really  much  obliged.  He  is  a  good  man,  and 
loves  you.  Some  few  days  since  I  saw  Mr.  Wood. 
He  said  a  great  many  handsome  things  of  you  ;  for 
I  think,  you  may  now  begin  to  be  trusted  with 
your  own  merit.  He  recommends  to  you  with  great 
earnestness,  the  collectings  of  all  possible  anecdotes  of 
the  present  Reign  of  Portugal.  The  Earthquake,  the 
Conspiracy,  and  even  the  Horrors  of  the  Execution  &c. 
A  work  of  this  kind  would  not  only  be  extremely 
valuable  in  itself,  but  it  might  possibly  introduce  you 


s6  Zbc  jfrancis  Xetters  [1760 

personally  to  Mr.  Pitt.  Everything  is  within  hope 
for  a  young  man  in  your  situation.  Mr.  Pitt  himself, 
no  offence  to  his  present  greatness,  is  a  proof  of  it. 
I  promised  to  send  you  a  paragraph  of  news  in  every 
letter,  you  must  be  contented  with  one  single  article 
at  present.  We  have  taken  the  Island  of  Dumat, 
I  believe  near  Quiberon  Bay.  It  commands  the 
Harbour  of  Croisic.  Sir  Edward  Hawke  says  he 
can  winter  the  Fleet  there  if  it  be  necessary." 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Oci.  II,  1760. 
"  .  .  .  It  is  impossible  to  lead  a  more  dull  and 
melancholy  Life  than  I  do.  I  am  heartily  sick 
of  all  this  Regularity  and  Form  and  Good  Living, 
the  only  Place  of  Diversion  in  Lisbon,  is  the  long 
Room,  where  the  Young  People  now  begin  to 
meet ;  but  it  is  by  one  of  my  Lord  Kinnoul's 
Whims  forbidden  to  his  family.  If  we  should  stay 
the  Winter,  I  should  certainly  not  submit  in  this 
Point,  cou^e  qui  coute.  When  we  left  London  there 
was  no  expectation  of  staying  near  so  long  as  we 
have  done,  and  I  should  think  it  a  real  Misfortune 
to  be  detained  here  so  long  as  to  miss  the  Congress. 
As  I  shall  therefore,  in  that  case,  be  drawn  in  for 
much  more  than  I  engage  for,  I  shall  not  allow  that 
his  Lordship  has  any  Right  to  make  the  Place  more 
miserable  to  me  than  is  necessary.  If  I  had  any 
business  to  employ  me, — Patience.  But  to  play  at 
Whist  every  Night  in  the  same  dull  party,  without  the 
least  Variety,  or  Intermission  is  more  than  I  can  bear. 
Perhaps  and    I   earnestly  hope  the  next  paquet  may 


i76o]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  57 

bring  our  Recredentials.     With  what  Joy  shall  I  quit 
Portugal,  and  once  more  see  dear  England. 
"  I  am  Dear  Sir, 

"  Yours  most  sincerely, 

"  P.  Francis. 
"  We  are  in  deep  Mourning  for  the  Queen  of  Spain, 
who  died  on  the  27th  of  last  month." 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London, 
"  October  14th,  1760. 

"  This  Letter  my  dear  Phil  I  hope  will  be  the  last 
of  my  Lisbon  Correspondence,  and  that  I  shall  soon 
bid  you  welcome  from  the  land  of  Slavery,  Superstition, 
and  Ignorance. 

"  The  best,  indeed  the  only  News  of  the  Day,  is 
that  the  Cherokees  have  abandoned  the  Siege  of  Fort 
London,  which  was  greatly  distress'd,  and  have 
applied  for  Terms  of  Peace.  We  are  all  at  Gaze  for 
the  Destination  of  our  Expedition  to  which  your 
Secretaryship,  thanks  to  our  friend  Calcraft,  might 
have  been  Secretary.  I  spent  a  very  good  humoured 
last  Sunday  with  Chitty's  Jollity  at  Hampstead,  and 
heard  the — not  too  divine  Miss  McRabie  singy  our 
'  Would  you  woo  the  tender  creature.'  Farewell  my 
dear  Phil  I  heartily  wish  you  a  good  voyage. 

"Yours,  ,,  p    p  „ 

Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Francis. 

"  Lisbon, 
"  Dear  Sir,  "October  2()th,  1760. 

"  A  packet   arrived   on  the   i8th  inst.  with 

five  mails  full  of  glorious  News  for  the  public,   and 

agreeable    news    for   us    in    particular.       I    need   not 


s8  Ube  iPrancis  Xettcrs  [1760 

answer  your  several  kind  letters  at  present,  as  I 
hope  to  have  the  Happiness  of  seeing  you  within  a 
few  days  after  this  reaches  London.  My  Lord 
Kinnoul  has  made  such  expedition  in  preparing  for 
his  Departure  that  we  shall  go  on  board  the  Isis 
next  Saturday  evening,  and,  if  the  wind  proves 
favourable,  proceed  early  next  morning.  We  had 
our  Audience  of  leave  yesterday.  His  Excellency  was 
received,  as  usual,  most  graciously.  After  all  the 
formal  audiences  were  finished  the  Conde  d'Oeyras 
went  to  him,  and  told  him  that  his  Majesty  desired 
to  speak  to  the  Earl  of  Kinnoul  in  private  ;  when 
he  went  in,  the  King  began  by  saying  in  Portuguese, 
'  My  Lord,  the  British  Ambassador  has  left  my  court, 
but  I  would  not  let  the  Earl  of  Kinnoul  depart 
without  informing  him  of  the  particular  Esteem  I 
have  for  his  person ;  and  how  greatly  I  am  pleased 
with  his  Conduct.  My  Lord,  no  man  knows  better 
than  you  do,  how  intimately  the  interests  of  the  two 
nations  are  connected,  and  I  believe  no  man  is  better 
disposed  to  support  the  harmony  and  union,  which 
is  for  their  mutual  Advantage.  I  know  what  an 
esteem  the  King,  my  brother,  has  for  you,  and  the 
confidence  he  places  in  you,  and  I  am  persuaded  you 
will  employ  your  best  offices  in  cultivating  the  Friend- 
ship that  subsists  so  happily  between  us.'  His 
Majesty  pronounced  all  this  in  an  open,  easy,  and 
very    friendly    manner.       In    concluding,    he    said,^ 

^  In  his  Autobiography,  writing  about  this  incident,  Francis  says  : 
"  In  consequence  of  a  difference  between  the  two  courts  about 
the  value  of  a  present  offered  to  Carvalho  when  he  was  Envoy  in 
England,' it  had. been  agreed  for  some  years  that  no  presents  should 
be  given  at  the  departure  of  their  respective  Ministers. " 


JOSEPH   I.,  KING   OF   PORTUGAL. 


To  face  page  58.] 


I 


1760]  Xtbe  jfrancis  Xetters  59 

*  Although  the  etiquette  of  the  two  Courts  does  not 
permit  the  giving  presents  to  the  ministers  of  each 
other,  yet  I  cannot  avoid  giving  my  Lord  Kinnoul 
a  particular  mark  of  my  private  regard  for  him,  which 
I  beg  he  will  accept  and  wear  for  my  Sake.'  So 
saying  he  presented  him  with  a  gold  box,  containing 
an  immense  Brilliant,  which  the  jewellers  here  value 
at  thirteen  hundred  pounds.  As  my  Lord  will  choose 
to  tell  this  most  handsome  story  himself,  I  would  not 
have  made  it  too  public.  The  Portuguese  call  this 
compliment  a  grand  fineza.  It  is  with  difficulty  I  can 
find  time  to  write,  for  literally  I  am  almost  fagged 
to  death.  No  wine  can  be  brought.  Mr.  Adair's 
is  ready  at  Oporto  and  only  waits  for  a  Convoy. 

"  Most  affectionately  yours, 

"  P.  F." 

The  regular  exchange  of  letters  between  Dr. 
Francis  and  his  son  is  interrupted  at  this  point. 

Philip  returned  to  England  with  Lord  Kinnoul  in 
November,  1760,  and  took  up  the  post  of  Clerk  in 
the  Secretary  of  State's  office  which  he  had  held 
before  he  accompanied  the  Ambassador  to  Portugal. 
He  was  presented  at  Court  by  Lord  Kinnoul,  and 
it  is  said  was  "  graciously  received,"  but  no  prefer- 
ment was  offered  him. 

During  the  following  year  Philip,  then  twenty-one 
years  of  age,  became  engaged  to  Miss  Elizabeth  Mack- 
rabie,  and  was  married  to  her  on  February  27th,  1762. 

Dr.  Francis  was  very  much  opposed  to  this 
marriage,  and  a  coolness  between  him  and  his  son 
resulted  from  it  which  extended  over  some  years.     But 


6o  tCbe  JFrancis  Xcttcrs  [1761 

intercourse  between  the  two  was  renewed  long  before 
the  father's  death,  which  took  place  on  March  5th,  1 773. 
It  is  plain  from  the  later  letters  written  by  the  old  man 
— made  prematurely  old  by  ill-health — to  Philip  that 
the  father's  affection  for  his  son  had  in  no  degree 
diminished,  and  also  that  he  had  no  reason  to 
complain  of  any  lack  of  kindness  on  the  son's  part, 
or  want  of  gratitude  for  the  strong  affection  which 
had  been  given  to  him  from  his  childhood. 

In  one  of  Dr.  Francis's  letters  to  his  son,  when 
the  latter  was  at  Lisbon,  he  mentions  having  spent 
an  evening  in  Miss  Mackrabie's  society,  by  which  it 
appears  that  the  families  of  Francis  and  Mackrabie 
were  already  acquainted. 

Elizabeth  Mackrabie  was  the  only  daughter  of  Mr. 
Alexander  Mackrabie,  who  had  retired  from  business 
and  lived  on  small  means  with  his  family  at  Fulham. 
She  had  one  brother,  Alexander.  The  Mackrabies 
and  the  Francis  family  had  mutual  friends  in  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Chandler  (Mr.  Chandler  was  a  relative  of 
the  Mackrabies)  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chitty ;  and  these 
names  recur  frequently  in  the  letters  following.  It 
appears  that  her  own  father  was  almost  as  strongly 
opposed  to  Elizabeth's  acceptance  of  young  Philip's 
proposal  to  her  as  Philip's  father  was  of  the  proposal 
being  made.  The  lovers  were  forbidden  to  meet 
or  have  any  intercourse  for  three  months,  but  they 
evidently  transgressed. 

Elizabeth  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

''July  lotk,  1761. 

"  Tho'  I  have  nothing  particular  to  say  yet  I 
would  not   omit    this  Opportunity  of  writing   you   a 


1761]  Xlbe  ifrancis  Xettcrs  61 

short  Letter  as  I  fear  time  won't  permit  me  to  make  it 
otherwise,  however  as  a  thing  of  the  most  Consequence 
I  hope  to  hear  soon  from  Harriott  [Chitty]  that  you 
are  perfectly   well   and    also   cheerful  and   that   your 

F r  and    you  are  upon  good    terms,  as  I   should 

be  extremely  unhappy  if  I  should  ever  be  the  least 
Cause  of  disagreement  between  two  such  near  Friends 
and  Relations,  however  as  hopes  must  still  carry  us 
on,  I  must  not  perplex  myself  and  endeavour  to  be 
contented,  as  to  my  Father  I  believe  he  has  already 
forgot  it,  and  thinks  that  I  have,  for  he  never  speaks 
a  single  Word  of  the  Affair,  if  so  he  is  much  mistaken, 
as  it  has  made  a  much  deeper  impression,  but  I 
appear  as  easy  as  I  can  and  I  thank  God  am  very 
well,  I  went  to  Town  last  Wednesday,  my  Father 
came  on  Tuesday  Night  and  knew  nothing  of  your 
being  here,  we  came  here  again  last  night  and  my 
Father  is  just  gone  to  Town  again  this  morning. 
Mrs.  Chitty  &  Harriott  is  here  I  have  received  yours 
and  have  but  just  time  to  thank  you  and  say  I  can 
never  think  of  the  private  Scheme.  I  am  very  well 
and  very  happy  you  are  so,  and  am  in  haste. 

"Your, 

"  E.  M." 

Elizabeth  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  FULHAM, 

"■July  23,  1 76 1. 

"Your  obliging  favour  of  the  19th  came  safe 
here  on  Monday  night  and  I  have  taken  the  first 
opportunity  to  thank  you  for  it  and  to  congratulate 
you  on  being  upon  good  terms  with  your  father  before 
he  left  town,  indeed  I   am  sincerely  happy  at  it  and 


62  Zbc  francts  Xettcrs  [1761 

heartily  wish  it  may  long  continue,  though  from  what 
you  say  I  fear  you  are  still  pursuing  what  will  only 
make  him  displeased  again  and  most  likely  only  more 
so  were  he  to  know  it,  however  at  present  you 
seem  to  think  he  is  easy  in  that  particular  as  he 
thinks  'tis  all  over  on  your  side  and  that  may  perhaps 
make  him  happy.  I  am  certain  my  Father  thinks  it 
is  with  me  as  I  always  endeavour  to  look  cheerful 
and  happy  when  he  is  here  and  I  believe  suffer  rather 
more  for  it  at  other  times,  but  there  is  no  help  for 
that.  I  often  wonder  he  don't  find  me  out,  as  I  am 
not  used  to  deceit  I  am  a  very  bad  disembler,  but 
I  fancy  as  'tis  what  he  would  not  willingly  find  out  so 
imagine  he  does  not  look  for  it.  Last  Tuesday  my 
brother  came  home  and  thank  God  perfectly  well,  he 
din'd  here  as  did  my  Father  and  some  more  Friends. 
I  could  not  help  wishing  you  had  been  of  the  party 
to  have  made  it  more  complete,  but  wishes  won't  do 
so  must  be  content.  Indeed  I  must  own  you  have 
acted  very  disinterestedly  in  this  affair  and  am  only 
sorry  to  say,  that  this  thing  should  it  ever  take  place, 
looks  so  very  much  so  on  your  side  that  I  fear  you 
will  be  blamed  by  all  your  Friends,  as  having  acted 
imprudently  and  as  many  will  think  improperly  in 
marrying  one  older  than  yourself  and  without  Fortune, 
as  will  be  the  case  were  we  to  do  this  thing  privately. 
My  Father's  disposition  is  such.  .  .  .  You  know  your 
Father's  objection  to  your  marrying  is  so  great  that 

he   told   my    F that   would   he    give    me    Ten 

Thousand  Pounds  it  would  not  make  him  approve  it  ; 
so  don't  flatter  yourself  with  vain  hopes  of  assistance 
on  his  side,  .  .  .  and  you  must  forgive  me,  if  I  think  your 


1761]  Zbc  jfrancis  Xcttcrs  63 

Income  won't  do  alone.  ...  I  can't  see  any  immediate 
necessity  till  at  least  the  three  months  are  expired, 
in  that  time  I  flatter  myself  something  favourable 
will  happen  to  us,  and  I  hope  you  don't  fear  trust- 
ing to  me  for  so  short  a  time,  but  I  know  you 
don't,  as  I  have  no  doubt  of  you,  and  am  entirely 
convinced  you  will  always  do  all  in  your  Power  to 
make  me  happy. 

"  I  go  into  Essex  on  Saturday.  After  my  return 
home  I  flatter  myself  I  shall  be  able  to  fix  some 
way  to  have  the  pleasure  to  see  you. 

"  Your, 

"E.  M. 

•*  I  shall  put  this  in  the  Penny  Post  to-morrow 
morning  in  London." 

Elizabeth  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  FULHAM, 

'■'-  Friday  Night,  Sept.  ii,  1761. 

*'  In  obedience  to  your  desire  I  write  you  a  few 
lines  to  show  you  how  desirous  I  am  of  pleasing 
you  and  to  say  I  hope  you  got  safe  home,  but  not 
without  being  seen  I  believe,  for  as  you  left  our  back 
Gate,  a  Man  from  that  open  door  came  out  after  you 
went  past  and  seem'd  to  Eye  you,  and  when  you  was 
gone  I  call'd  at  Mr.  Bonnin  our  Clergyman's  and 
he  told  me  he  saw  a  Young  Gentleman  in  blew  go  to 
our  house,  that  he  had  laid  out  for  me,  I  could  not 
deny  your  being  there  so  said  nothing,  I  hope  in 
God  your  being  here  to-day  may  not  come  to  my 
Father's  Ears  and  then  all  will  be  well  and  I  must 
say    your   Company   has   given    me    much    pleasure 


64  XTbe  jprancis  Xctters  [1761 

today,  and  I  hope  no  bad  consequence  may  come 
from  it.  I  own  it  has  given  me  fresh  spirits  and  I 
seem  to  be  all  alive  (and  if  I  were  so  happy  as  to  be 
at  Hampstead)  I  should  say  merry,  but  that  I  can't 
be,  so  'tis  needless  to  wish  it,  but  still  the  propensity 
is  so  great,  that  I  can't  avoid  saying  it.  ...  I  have  not 
time  to  write  anything  but  these  few  Words,  which  I 
hope  your  goodness  will  accept  instead  of  a  letter 
for  'tis  but  a  scrawl,  however  when  I  have  an  Oppor- 
tunity will  make  it  up,  pray  excuse  this  little  bitt  of 
paper,  as  I  have  not  a  bitt  more  here  and  believe 
me  to  be  with  the  greatest  Sincerity  ever 

"  Your 

"  E.  M." 

None  of  her  lover's  letters  to  Elizabeth  have  been 
kept,  nor  any  written  during  the  two  years  succeeding 
their  marriage.  Their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Sarah, 
was  born  on  May  29th,  1763.  Towards  the  end  of 
the  year  1762  Philip  (aet.  22)  had,  through  the  interest 
of  his  and  his  father's  friend  Mr.  Wood,  received 
from  the  Right  Hon.  Welbore  Ellis,  Secretary  at 
War,  the  appointment  of  First  Clerk  in  the  War 
Office.  Christopher  D'Oyly  at  the  same  time  was 
made  Mr.  Ellis's  deputy.  Thus  D'Oyly  and  Francis 
became  companions  in  the  War  Office,  and  their 
companionship  led  to  a  warm  friendship.  Eventually 
they  left  the  War  Office  together  in  1772.  Mr. 
Francis's  income  was  increased  by  this  change  in 
his  life. 

The  second  child,  christened  Elizabeth,  was  born 
in  March,  1764.     During  this  year  Mrs.  Francis  paid 


1764]  trbc  ifrancts  Xetters  65 

a  long  visit  to  Brighton  for  her  health.     Her  husband 
writes  to  her  there  from  home  : — 

"  Duke  Street, 
'■'■June  28,  1764,  7  o'clock. 

"  My  dearest  Betsy, 

"  James  has  just  arrived  here  after  a  miser- 
able Journey.  The  poor  fellow  has  been  wet  thro' 
&  thro',  and  continued  so  several  Hours.  But  he  has 
this  minute  swallowed  a  Bumper  of  Rum  and  seems  to 
be  in  tolerable  spirits.  People  who  go  upon  Journeys 
must  expect  to  meet  with  a  Variety  of  Plagues,  and 
make  the  best  on't.  Upon  the  whole  I  think  you 
have  not  been  very  unlucky.  If  your  Chaise  Boys 
were  troublesome,  the  Weather  was  exactly  what 
you  would  have  wished,  and  the  having  James  with 
you  must  have  been  a  considerable  Advantage  to  you. 
If  you  are  comfortably  settled  now,  no  matter  for  the 
Past.  The  two  dear  children  are  as  well  as  possible. 
Sally  ate  a  bit  of  chicken  with  me  to-day,  for  I  dined 
at  home  ;  but  I  could  not  spare  her  half  so  much  as 
she  wanted  as  I  had  nothing  else.  The  nurses  to  do 
them  Justice  seem  to  be  very  fond  and  careful  of 
their  charge.  As  to  the  additional  Expense  you  have 
been  at,  there's  no  help  for  it.  All  I  can  say  is  you 
must  be  as  saving  as  you  can  ;  at  the  same  Time  it  is 
not  my  Desire  that  you  should  distress  yourself  about 
Trifles.  I  dined  at  the  *  Chops '  on  Tuesday  and 
Yesterday  in  Cecil  Street ;  but  never  sure  made  so 
bad  a  dinner.  First  four  monstrous  Mackerel,  hard- 
roed  and  blood  Raw.  Not  a  little  cursing  and 
swearing.  After  being  all  mammocked  the  fish  were 
sent  down  to  be  boiled  and  when  they  returned  had 

5 


66  Zbc  frauds  Xettcrs  [1764 

the  most  odious  appearance  I  ever  beheld  ;  they  looked 
like  one  dish  of  Hodge  Podge.  A  neck  of  Mutton 
roasted  to  death  formed  the  second  course.  In 
short  I  came  away  sick  and  hungry.  If  I  write  often 
which  I  propose  doing  you  must  not  expect  me  to 
be  very  prolix.  Pray  give  my  compliments  to  your 
Mother  and  believe  me 

"  Most  affectionately  Yours, 

"  P.  F." 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife. 

"6  July,  1764. 

"  I  am  most  truly  grieved  at  the  most  melancholy 
account  of  your  Health,  especially  as  it  is  so  entirely 
out  of  my  Power  to  contribute  to  your  Relief 

"  With  respect  to  this  Head  Ache  I  suppose  it  is 
no  more  than  the  immediate  effect  of  a  remedy 
which  you  are  not  used  to ;  but  I  flatter  myself  still 
that  it  will  go  off".  But  if  it  be  owing  to  your 
excessive  lowness  of  Spirits,  I  know  no  Remedy : — 
it  is  indeed  bad  enough  that  you  should  not  have 
met  with  a  single  Acquaintance  at  a  Place  of  such 
public  Resort ;  but  remember  my  dear  Girl  that  you 
went  more  for  Health  than  for  Amusement  or  Pleasure  ; 
and  let  the  Hopes  of  Attaining  that  great  Object  give 
you  a  Relish  for  the  Means.  As  to  my  own  part  I 
assure  you  I  never  was  more  truly  sick  of  anything 
than  I  am  of  this  Vagabond  way  of  Life,  and  sincerely 
wish  to  have  you  Home  again ;  but  it  would  grieve 
me  to  think  that  all  this  should  have  been  done  to 
no  Purpose ;  for  God's  sake  persevere,  and  do  not 
let  the  Want  of  the  company  of  People  whom  you 


1764]  trbe  jfrancis  Xctters  67 

do  not  care  a  Farthing  for,  interrupt   a   concern  of 

so  much  consequence  as  your  Health. 

"  What    is    it  you  wish  for — Your  Children  and  I 

are  perfectly  well   and   wherever   you   are   you    may 

be  sure  my  tenderest  Affection  for  you  is  the  same. 

But  you  want  to  see  me — I  wrote    this   Morning  to 

your  Brother,  and  find  by  his  Answer  which  I  send 

you   enclosed,  that  we   shall    dine   together.     I  shall 

propose   to   him    our  setting  out  on  Friday  next  for 

Brighthelmstone  and   if  it  can  possibly  be  managed 

you    may    expect    us    that    Night.     What    can  I    do 

more.     So  be  a  good  Girl,  and  keep  up  your  Spirits. 

Ask    Dr.    Relhan's    advice    as    soon    as    he    arrives. 

My  compliments  to  your  sleepy  mother. 

"  Yours  truly, 

ti  p    p  " 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife. 

"July  loi/t,  1764. 

"  My  dearest  Betsy, 

"  I  wrote  to  you  on  Friday  and  Saturday 
last,  and  received  a  letter  from  you  yesterday  dated 
the  6th,  which  I  fancy  must  be  a  mistake  :  for  the 
future  add  the  Name  of  the  Day.  Everything  is 
settled  for  our  setting  out  on  Friday  next.  That 
Night  I  promise  myself  the  great  Pleasure  of  holding 
my  dearest  Girl  in  my  Arms.  It  is  impossible  to  be 
more  impatient  than  I  am  to  see  you.  Our  Time  at 
Hampstead  was  spent  as  usual  in  the  height  of 
Jollity  and  what  added  to  it  was  that  Mrs.  Chitty 
found  herself  almost  perfectly  recovered.  It  would 
really  have  grieved  me  more  than  I  can  express  to 
have  lost    that    worthy    good    Woman.     You    are    a 


68  xrbc  jfrancis  Xctters  [1764 

rigid  Economist  indeed  to  think  of  so  small  a  Matter 
as  a  Penny  a  Day.  I  desire  you  will  by  no  means 
cramp  yourself  in  the  article  of  Expense  as  I  choose 
that  you  should  have  everything  that  can  be  of  Use 
or  Satisfaction  to  you,  and  as  I  am  most  firmly 
convinced  you  will  never  run  into  unnecessary 
Expenses,  I  shall  with  Pleasure  make  good  any 
Deficiency  in  your  Allowance. 

"  The  two  children  and  I  played  together  this 
morning  about  half  an  hour  on  the  Carpet ;  it  amuses 
me  vastly  to  see  how  fond  Sally  is  of  her  Sister,  and 
what  efforts  she  makes  to  speak  to  her ;  '  Ti-ta-to-tu ' 
— for  at  present  I  live  in  the  Dining  Room,  the 
Parlour  is  all  Filth  and  Dirt. 

".  .  .  It  is  possible  you  may  not  hear  from  me 
again  until  you  see  your  Brother  and  me  at 
Brighthelmstone.     Adieu. 

"  My  compliments  attend  your  Mother. 

"  Yours  always,   P.  F." 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife. 

"July  2StA,  1764. 

'*  My  dearest  Betsy, 

"  It  gives  me  a  great  deal  of  Concern,  to 
hear  that  the  Sea  is  not  a  more  effectual  Remedy  to 
you,  than  you  have  found  it.  What  I  apprehend  is 
that  the  uneasiness  of  being  from  Home  counteracts 
the  good  Effects  of  the  Water,  and  leaves  you  in  the 
same  State  it  found  you.  If  this  be  the  case,  I  may 
be  very  sorry,  but  I  cannot  find  in  my  Heart  to 
blame  you  ;  but  if  it  be  really  the  case,  if  all  the 
end  answered  is  that  you  are  sometimes  better  and 
sometimes  worse,  I  own  I  cannot  discover  the    Use 


1764]  Zbc  ifrancis  Xetters  69 

of  your  continuing  at  a  Place,  where  you  must  lead 
but  a  melancholy  Life  at  best.  Ask  yourself  the 
Question,  whether  you  seriously  think  the  Sea  has, 
or  probably  will  do  you  any  considerable  Service. 
If  it  has  not  I  would  by  all  Means  advise  you  to 
come  home.  My  dearest  girl,  don't  attribute  this  to 
any  but  the  true  motive — a  Desire  to  have  your 
Company,  which  yet  I  would  willingly  give  up,  if 
there  were  Reason  to  hope  that  your  staying  where 
you  are  can  in  any  measure  contribute  to  the 
Establishment  of  your  health.  .  .  . 

"  Rosenhagen  has   left,   and    I   am    going   to    Mr. 

C .     The    Parson   promises    to    return   again   on 

Monday. 

"  Believe  me  always  my  dearest  Betsy, 

"  Yours  most  truly, 

"P.  F. 

"  The  two  dear  Childers  look  like  little  Angels.  I 
make  Sally  walk  whether  she  will  or  no.  My  Father's 
Housekeeper  calls  sometimes,  but  I  have  never  seen 
her,  nor  the  Doctor  himself  Present  your  Brother's 
love   and    mine  to    Mrs.    Mackrabie." 

Philip  Rosenhagen,  of  a  Danish  family,  had  been 
a  fellow-pupil  of  Philip  Francis  at  St.  Paul's. 
Rosenhagen  was  older  than  Philip,  but  they  were 
class-fellows.  Mr.  Thicknesse,  the  Headmaster  of 
the  school  in  their  time,  used  to  speak  of  these  two 
boys  as  being  the  most  naturally  clever  amongst 
his  pupils.  In  forecasting  their  lives  he  predicted  a 
far  higher  moral  development  for  Francis  than  for 
his    friend.      Rosenhagen   graduated    at    St.    John's 


70  Ubc  fvands  Xetters  [1765 

College,  Cambridge,  and  took  Holy  Orders.  He 
was  eventually  appointed  Archdeacon  of  Colombo, 
where  he  died  in  1799. 

In  the  summer  of  1765  Mrs.  Francis  visited 
Margate  with  her  children  for  the  sake  of  sea  baths  ; 
her  husband  writes  to  her  there : — 

"8/A  June,  1765. 

"  Indeed,  my  dearest  Betsy,  I  am  very  serious 
when  I  say  I  think  your  absence  long,  and  the 
prospect  of  three  weeks  more  appears  almost  an  age. 
However  if  you  and  the  Children  are  benefitted  by 
it,  I  shall  be  satisfied,  and  leave  it  to  your  own 
judgment.  ...  As  I  understand  you  are  not  acquainted 
with  any  body  at  Margate,  how  do  you  contrive  to 
make  Parties  at  Quadrille.  You  should  take  care  not 
to  play  with  any  but  genteell  People  :  that  Place  has 
not  always  the  best  company  in  the  World.  .  .  .  Does 
Sally  grow  stronger  or  does  she  attempt  to  talk  yet. 
Do  you  subscribe  to  the  Library  and  read  pretty 
Books  ?  Mr.  Chitty  has  pressed  me  very  much  to 
go  to  Hampstead,  and  I  propose,  if  nothing  inter- 
venes, to  pay  them  a  visit  this  Evening,  and  return 
on  Monday. 

"  Next  Saturday  I  shall  either  go  to  Maidenhead 
Bridge  or  to  Mr.  Chandlers,  but  your  Brother  is  an 
idle  good  for  nothing  Varlet.  The  Fellow  goes  and 
sups  with  Men  and  their  Wives  eternally.  I  forgot  to 
tell  you  that  the  Pussy  has  been  safely  delivered,  upon 
one  of  the  Arm  chairs  in  the  Parlour,  of  a  white,  white 
kitten,  no  bigger  than  Sally's  Thumb.  The  latter  is 
perfectly  well,  and  the  former  as  well  as  can  be  ex- 


1765]  XTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  71 

pected.  She  is  truly  the  Lady  in  the  Straw,  having  a 
nice  bed  of  that  quality  made  up  for  her  in  the 
Garden,  where  I  take  care  to  have  her  Victuals 
regularly  conveyed  to  her.  As  these  are  events  that 
regard  the  Family,  I  flatter  myself  you  will  not  hear 
of  them  with  Indifference.  This  Letter  would  hardly 
be  worth  your  paying  fourpence  for,  but  as  /  am  to 
pay  for  it  you  may  allow  me  to  be  as  concise  and 
as  idle  as  I  please.  .  ,  . 

"  I  dined  at  Gordon's  yesterday — they  enquired 
properly  about  you  and  desire  their  compliments. 
Mine  to  your  Mother,  and  kisses  to  the  children. 

"Yours,  my  sweetest   love,   always  and   with   the 

greatest  truth, 

««  p    p  " 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife. 

''June  II,  1765. 
"  This  Post  is  very  convenient,  for  though  we  are 
above  seventy  miles  off,  I  hear  this  morning  how  you 
did  yesterday.  This  is  so  great  a  Pleasure  to  me  that 
I  wait  with  impatience  for  the  hour  of  the  Post,  and 
woe  be  to  you  if  you  disappoint  me.  I  am  perfectly 
satisfied  that  you  will  not  dance  with  any  but  a 
proper  Person,  but  that  was  not  what  I  meant  :  I  am 
apt  to  suspect  that  the  general  run  of  the  Company  is 
not  of  the  best,  therefore  would  wish  you  not  to 
make  yourself  too  cheap  among  them.  Who  did  you 
dance  with  ?  The  Time  till  my  dearest  Betsy  returns 
seems  full  as  tedious  to  me  as  it  can  do  to  you.  I 
wish  it  were  possible  for  me  to  take  a  trip  to  Margate, 
but  that  would  make  it  impossible  for  me  to  execute 
my    Paris  Scheme.      Your  Brother   and    Fitz  and    I 


72  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1765 

went  to  Foote's  last  night,  and  afterwards  they  supped 
on  Bread  and  Butter  with  me. 

"  My  sweetest  Betsy,  I  hope  you  think  of  me,  and 
that  you  really  wish  to  be  with  me  again ;  if  you  do 
not  you  are  ungrateful  to  the  last  degree.  Haven't 
you  fixed  the  Day  yet  for  your  Return  ?  As  you  are 
such  a  constant  Bather,  I  should  imagine  your  Stay 
might  be  shortened.  But  all  this  I  leave  to  yourself 
As  I  write  constantly  twice  a  week,  you  ought  to 
be  contented,  though  I  don't  complain  of  your  wishing 
to  hear  oftener  from  me.  I  wish  Sally  would  do  me 
the  Favour  to  say  a  few  Words ;  can't  you  persuade 
her  to  write  a  line  or  two  to  me  ? 

"  Yours,  my  dearest  Betsy,  for  ever, 

a  p      p  " 

The  following  letter  was  written  by  Philip  Francis 
in  1766  to  his  friend  Mr.  Allen  at  Lisbon  : — 

"  London, 
*' February  /\th,  1766, 

"  Dear  Allen, 

"  I  have  but  a  very  few  moments  to  spare, 
but  I  will  not  omit  letting  you  know  the  event  of  one 
of  the  most  important  Questions  ever  agitated  in 
Parliament  :  No  less  than  whether  the  British  Legis- 
lature had  a  right  to  tax  the  British  Colonies.  You 
have  undoubtedly  heard  to  what  a  dangerous  height 
disputes  have  been  carried  here  upon  this  point, 
especially  since  Mr.  Pitt  thought  fit  to  declare  himself 
so  strongly  in  favour  of  the  Claims  of  the  Americans  : 
it  is  true  that  his  opinion  and  his  manner  of  declaring 
it,  were  universally  condemned  by  every  Englishman 
above  the  rank  of  a  Blacksmith  ;  yet  it  did  not  fail, 


1766]  xrbc  jfrancls  Xetters  73 

as   might  well  be  expected,   to  increase  the  ferment 
the  nation  was  in  already.     Yesterday  the  point  was 
solemnly  argued  by  both  Houses,  and  decided  in  the 
Upper   House.      In   the  House   of   Lords,    where    I 
attended,  (for  not  a  single  stranger  was  admitted  in 
the   other  House)  the  Debate  lay  between   the  two 
great  pillars  of  the  law,  Lords  Chief  Justice  Cambden 
and  Mansfield.     The  Parties  were  all  prepared.     The 
known  Anxiety  of  the  public,  the  fulness  of  the  House, 
and  the  profound  Attention  with  which  these  great 
men  were  heard,  made  it  a  most  solemn  scene,  and 
seemed  to  add  something  to  the  real  Importance  of 
the  question.     The  debate  took  its  rise  from  a  motion 
made  by  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  as  follows :  '  That  the 
King's  Majesty,  by  and  with  the  advice  and  consent 
of  the  Lords  spiritual  and  temporal  and  Commons  of 
Great  Britain  in  Parliament  assembled,  had,  hath,  and 
of  right   ought  to  have,  full  power  and  authority  to 
make  laws  and  statutes  of  sufficient  tone  and  validity 
to  bind  the  colonies  and  people  of  America  subjects 
to  the  Crown  of  Great  Britain  in  all  cases  whatsoever.' 
"  I  did  not  get  into  the  House  time  enough  to  hear 
Lord    Cambden,    who   opposed   the   motion  ;    but    I 
understand    that    his    whole    Discourse    was    rather 
oratorical    than    argumentative  ;    that   he   seemed   to 
have  adopted  the  declamatory  Stile  altogether,  with 
the   principles    of  Mr.    Pitt ;    resting  his  cause   more 
upon    natural    rights   of   Humanity   and    the   general 
doctrine  of  natural   Liberty,  than  upon  the  laws  and 
true  Constitution  of  England.     I  need  not  go  through 
the  common  train  of  arguments  in  favour  of  Freedom, 
virtual  representation,   trade,   &c.,   which   I  dare  say 


74  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1766 

were  urged  with  all  the  force  they  could  possibly 
admit  of.  But  to  very  little  Effect.  For  when  Lord 
Mansfield  had  made  his  reply,  it  was  so  full,  so 
learned,  so  logical,  and  in  every  respect  so  true,  that 
not  an  atom  of  doubt  remained  in  the  breasts  of  his 
hearers.  He  traced  the  Colonies  from  their  origin — 
their  charters  and  history — the  impossibility  of 
supposing  two  supreme  Legislatures — how  imprac- 
ticable to  draw  a  line  for  bounding  the  authority  of 
the  British  legislature  ;  the  absurdity  of  attempting 
to  distinguish  between  the  one  act  of  legislation  and 
another ;  as  if  a  greater  degree  of  power  were 
required  to  lay  taxes  than  to  make  any  other  kind 
of  Law — proved  by  a  multitude  of  examples  that  such 
an  idea  was  equally  false  in  Fact  as  in  Reason. 
Expressed  the  greatest  tenderness  for  the  Americans, 
and  his  firm  belief  that  these  commotions  might  be 
appeased  without  violence  or  bloodshed.  That  to 
give  up  the  Act,  in  order  to  save  our  Trade,  would 
be  in  effect  incurring — and  the  surest  way  of  incurring 
— the  mischief  we  endeavoured  to  avoid — it  would  be 
ne  moriare  mori ;  and  ended  thus  :  '  I  shall  conclude 
with  saying  from  my  inmost  heart  Amen  to  a  prayer 
once  made  by  Maurice  Prince  of  Orange  for  his 
native  country,  That  it  may  please  God  to  open  the 
understandings  and  better  inform  the  minds  of  this 
poor,  innocent,  industrious,  loyal,  brave,  but  wickedly 
misled  and  deluded  people.'  A  long  pause  between 
every  Epithet,  and  a  most  pathetic  Delivery,  accom- 
panied this  sentence,  and  had  an  effect  which  I  cannot 
easily  describe.  Lord  Cambden  then  made  a  short 
reply  to   one  particular  Point    which    did    not   at  all 


1766]  XTbe  francfs  Xetters  75 

affect  the  whole  question,  and  seemed  to  give  up  the 
Argument. 

"The  House  then  divided,  125  content,  5  not 
content.  The  names  of  the  latter  were ;  Lord 
Cambden,  Earl  of  Shelbourne,  Earl  Paulet,  Earl 
Cornwallis,  Viscount  Torrington. 

"  You  may  be  sure  that  this  Intelligence  was  soon 
carried  to  the  House  of  Commons.  They  sat  till  past 
three,  but  without  dividing,  and  the  consideration  of 
the  above  Motion  was  adjourned  till  Wednesday. 
But  it  seems  Mr.  Pitt  has  himself  perceived  how 
much  the  turn  of  the  House  is  against  him,  and  we 
make  no  doubt  the  Motion  will  be  agreed  to  ne7nine 
contradicente .  Tout  le  monde  est  d' accord  que  Monsieur 
P.  est  ce  quon  appelle  perdu  sans  retour.  Le  ministere 
aussi,  a  ce  que  Pon  dit,  doit  se  changer  entierement  et 
bientot.  My  account  of  the  Debate  is  wretchedly 
imperfect,  but  I  really  have  not  time  to  make  it 
more  complete,  though  I  have  matter  enough  in  my 
head  to  fill  a  Volume." 

Mrs.  Francis's  only  brother,  Alexander  Mackrabie, 
became  her  husband's  most  intimate  friend.  Alexander 
went  to  America  as  clerk  in  a  house  of  business  in 
Philadelphia  during  the  year  1767,  and  remained  there 
six  years.  The  following  letters  have  been  selected 
from  the  correspondence  between  the  brothers-in-law : — 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  On  board  the  Dragon. 

-  My  dear  Brother,  "^^/a  Sepumber,  1767. 

"  About  a  month  ago  I  informed  you  of  my 
safe  Arrival   at    Madeira,  in  a  very  foolish  drunken 


76  Ube  francfs  Xetters  [1767 

letter  from  that  Island  ;  at  least,  I  conceive  so  from 
the  condition  we  all  found  ourselves  in  when  we 
returned  on  Board.  Depend  upon  it,  I  shall  never 
write  to  you  again  in  that  state.  I  am  determined  to 
be  very  regular  in  America. 

"  This  voyage  seems  like  a  Gap  in  life — it  furnishes 
nothing.  We  have  now  been  thirty-one  days  out  of 
sight  of  every  object  but  sky  and  water,  and  when  it 
will  be  at  an  end  God  knows. 

**  The  winds  have  not  favoured  us  greatly,  being  for 
the  most  part  so  calm,  that  the  Voyage  hitherto  might 
have  been  performed  safely  in  the  ship's  Boat.  I 
can't  tell  if  we  may  charge  the  Tediousness  of  our 
Passage  to  the  Captain's  neglecting  an  Image  of 
St.  Antonio,  recommended  to  him  at  Madeira.  St. 
Antonio  is  the  patron  of  Roman  Catholic  sailors ; 
none  of  their  Ships  will  sail  without  him,  they  tie 
him  to  their  mainmast,  and  are  very  constant  in  their 
Adorations  to  him.  If  he  procures  them  a  fair  Wind, 
they  reward  his  kindness  with  a  Taper,  but  if  the 
contrary,  with  a  rope's  end." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"Philadelphia, 
"  Zth  October. 

"  Thank  God,  I  am  safely  arrived  here,  and  in 
good  health,  tho'  not  so  soon  as  we  expected. 
The  first  Land  we  made  was  Virginia ;  and  the  Wind 
falling  calm,  we  were  four  Days  more  getting  to  the 
mouth  of  the  River  Delaware.  We  landed  forty  Miles 
below  this  City,  at  a  Town  called  Newcastle,  where 
we  swallowed  cream  and  bread-and-butter  and  new- 
laid-eggs  like  so  many  devils.     But  I   must  not  give 


1767]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  77 

you  any  Account  of  America  in  this  letter ;  indeed, 
I  have  not  time,  for  after  the  arrival  of  a  Packet, 
they  only  allow  us  time  enough  to  answer  letters 
before  the  Mail  is  dispatched  back  again  to  New  York. 
I  believe  I  told  you  I  was  very  sick  for  a  week  after 
I  came  on  Board  ;  after  that  I  had  an  amazing  Appetite, 
and  eat  and  drank  at  such  a  rate,  that  when  I 
attempted  to  put  on  my  Clothes  (which  I  had  no 
occasion  for  during  the  last  Month  at  sea)  I  could 
hardly  button  them. 

"  We  hear  Sir  Harry  Moore  is  superseded  in  his 
government  of  New  York,  and  is  going  home ;  that 
a  Colonial  clerk  is  appointed  in  his  Room  ;  that  Lord 
Holland  is  now  the  leading  man  in  the  Ministry, 
and  granting  lands  in  America  like  dirt.  I  wish  he 
would  give  you  a  grant  when  his  hand  is  in.  'Tis 
the  only  country  in  the  world  to  wish  for  Possessions 
in,  to  my  Mind. 

"  Mr.  Neave  [Mackrabie's  superior]  has  taken  a 
House  here — a  very  pleasant  one,  with  a  great  many 
fine  trees  hanging  over  it,  a  little  Garden  and 
good  Stabling.  We  Breakfast  comfortably,  and  al- 
ways dine  with  somebody  or  other.  They  drink  too 
much,   but  everything  is  extremely  good. 

"  We  have  Races  here  next  week,  and  a  Review, 
and  Plays.  This  is  the  busiest  Season  in  Phila- 
delphia— the  Election,  and  annual  Meeting  of  the 
Quakers ;   a  very  full  Town. 

"  I  must  now  make  an  end  of  this  long,  dull  chit- 
chat Letter ;  I  don't  like  it  myself 

"  I  wish  you  would  write  to  me  often,  that  I  may 


78  tCbe  jFtancis  Xetters  [1767 

improve.  I  have  wrote  a  long  letter  to  Fulham, 
which  I  have  enclosed  in  this,  and  beg  you  will 
send  there. 

"  I  shall  write  next  Pacquet  to  my  sister  ;  my  love 
to  her.     God  bless  my  three  little  girls. 

"  Farewell,  my  dearest  Philip. 

"  You  know  how  truly  I  am  your  affectionate, 

"A.  Mackrabie." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  War  Office, 
"■Dec.  ^th,  1767. 

"  Dear  Brother, 

"  As  long  as  it  remained  uncertain  whether 
you  were  floating  on  the  surface,  or  lying  flat  on  your 
Back  at  the  bottom  of  the  Sea,  I  thought  it  in  vain 
to  continue  writing  to  you,  but  now  that  I  understand 
by  your  first  Letter  from  Philadelphia  that  you  are 
man  in  Esse  as  well  as  in  Posse,  you  shall  find  me  as 
regular  in  my  Correspondence  as  the  Monthly  Review 
and  perhaps  as  full  of  Matter.  The  Letter  you  have 
mentioned  as  written  from  the  Madeiras  never  came 
to  Hand.  I  should  think  your  landing  there  must 
have  been  a  very  agreeable  Circumstance  both  as  a 
relief  from  the  sea  and  a  Prospect  of  new  Faces.  You 
ought  to  have  told  me  in  what  manner  you  were 
received  by  my  unknown  Cousins  of  whom  I  under- 
stand there  is  a  plentiful  Crop  at  the  Place  where 
you  find  yourself  Are  they  civil  to  you  and  do 
you  spend  your  time  agreeably  ? 

"  We  are  in  hourly  expectation  of  some  further 
Alterations  in  the  Ministry  by  introducing  some  of  the 
opposing  Parties   into   Place.     We  are  just   informed 


1767]  TLhc  jfrancts  Xetters  79 

of  a  very  extraordinary  combination  entered  into  at 
Boston  by  all  the  principal  Inhabitants  not  to  use 
any  one  article  of  English  Growth  or  Manufacture  : 
such  are  Fruits  of  our  Indulgence.  But  as  to  you  Sir, 
I  insist  upon  it  that  you  neither  make  yourself  a 
Party  Man  nor  Politician.  My  Father  has  had  the 
misfortune  of  a  Stroke  of  the  Palsy  which  seized  him 
all  over  about  a  fortnight  ago  at  Bath.  He  is  now 
pretty  well  recovered.  I  am  going  to  Bath  in  the 
course  of  next  week  to  spend  the  Xmas  Holidays. 
Mrs.  Chandler  I  suppose  is  now  at  the  summit  of 
her  Wishes  for  Mr.  Chandler  has  bought  a  House  in 
Bruton  Street,  Berkeley  Square.  When  he  has  made 
the  alterations  he  intends  in  it,  it  will  really  be  fit 
for  a  nobleman.   .  .  . 

"  Adieu,  adieu, 

"P.  Francis." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Bristol  [Pensylvania  ',] 
"20/A  Jan.,  1768. 

"  My  dear  Philip, 

"  I  wrote  you  last  week,  but  cannot 
exactly  recollect  what  Day  ;  I  sent  it  to  New  York, 
to  Mr.  Neave,  to  forward  by  a  private  Ship.  This 
goes  by  the  Pacquet,  which  is  but  just  arrived,  and 
will  be  dispatched  again  directly.  I  have  so  little 
Time  to  write  this  and  several  other  letters,  that  I  am 
forced  to  steal  an  Hour  from  Company  at  an  inn, 
where  I  put  up  on  my  return  from  a  visit  to  Mr. 
Franklyn,   Governor   of  the   province   of  Jersey,    to 

^  There  are  numerous  Bristol  s  in  the  United  States.     This,  no 
doubt,  is  Bristol,  Bucks  Co.,  Pa. 


8o  Ube  ifrancis  Xetters  [1768 

whom  I  was  introduced  yesterday  by  a  Friend  of 
his  and  mine.  He  is  a  son  of  Dr.  Franklin's,  of 
Philadelphia,  whom  all  the  world  knows.  But  per- 
haps you  may  have  seen  this  Gentleman  in  England. 
He  is  a  very  sensible  agreeable  man,  and  behaved 
with  the  utmost  Politeness  to  us ;  entertained  us  at 
his  House  till  this  day.  I  could  hardly  find  myself 
out  this  morning  in  a  most  elegant  crimson  silk 
damask  Bed. 

"  The  November  pacquet  is  just  arrived.  I  have 
received  a  letter  from  my  Father,  in  which  he  informs 
me  that  you  and  my  Sister  and  the  little  Folks  are 
all  well.  I  rejoice  at  it.  The  October  pacquet  is 
not  yet  come  in,  perhaps  it  may  bring  a  letter  from 
you.  I  hear  there  is  a  good  deal  of  public  news, 
but  I  have  not  yet  seen  any  Papers.  I  am  informed 
there  are  three  new  Governments  forming  upon  the 
frontiers.  When  they  take  place  I  wish  they  may 
not  meet  with  Interruption  from  the  Indians,  who 
begin  to  be  very  unquiet.  I  think  I  mentioned  in  my 
last  some  Encroachments  made  upon  their  Hunting- 
grounds  by  white  People,  which  they  complain  highly 
of.  We  have  fresh  accounts  every  day  of  Murders 
among  them.  The  assembled  Governors  and  the 
Commander-in-chief  are  all  anxious  to  put  a  stop  to 
these  Irregularities,  which  if  not  soon  done  great 
confusion  is  apprehended.  Objects  so  distant  as 
these  may  not  much  engage  the  Attention  of  people 
in  England,  but  they  are  the  constant  and  general 
topics  here.  I  may  cry  out,  '  Happy  is  he  who 
possesses  nothing,  for  in  the  day  of  trouble  he  hath 
nothing  to  fear.' 


1768]  XTbc  iFrancts  Xetters  si 

"If  any  one  would  tempt  me  with  a  very  advan- 
tageous proposal,  I  should  make  little  Objection  to 
settling  upon  the  Ohio,  or,  indeed,  any  where  to  get 
Money.  I  do  not  think  the  People  here  quite  so 
mad  as  the  good  folks  on  your  side  of  the  water 
were  some  years  before  our  time,  with  their  famous 
Mississippi  Scheme,  but  you  would  really  be  amazed 
at  the  rapturous  terms  in  which  those  who  have  been 
some  hundreds  miles  to  the  westward  of  this,  speak 
of  the  Country.  As  they  advance  inland  the  Climate 
becomes  more  temperate  and  settled,  the  Soil  rich 
and  fertile,  producing  spontaneously  many  useful 
Herbs,  Plants  and  Fruits,  in  many  Spots  fine  extensive 
tracts  of  open  Champain  Country,  not  loaded  with 
useless  Woods  as  every  part  near  the  Coast  is — 
extremely  troublesome  and  expensive  to  clear.  We 
shall  see  what  time  will  bring  forth. 

"  I  wish  you  could  get  a  Grant  of  Land  for  your- 
self; your  Children  might  reap  the  Benefit  of  it,  tho' 
it  might  not  turn  to  any  immediate  Benefit  for 
yourself. 

"It  is  almost  a  Proverb  in  this  Neighbourhood 
that  '  Every  great  fortune  made  here  within  these 
50  years  has  been  by  land.'  I  walked  over  the 
river  Delaware  this  morning,  where  it  is  more  than 
a  Mile  broad,  upon  the  Ice  ;  Carriages  loaded  at  the 
same  time  passing  to  and  fro.  You  may  imagine 
in  such  a  season,  when  all  nature  is  locked  up,  there 
can  be  little  here  worth  communicating.  The  Amuse- 
ment among  the  ladies  of  all  Ranks  and  Ages  is  riding 
upon  the  snow  in  Sleighs,  a  kind  of  open  coach  upon 
a  sledge,  drawn  by  a  pair  of  horses.      They  make 

6 


8«  ^be  jpranctB  Xetters  [1768 

parties  out  of  town    in   them    and    drive   at    a    pro- 
digious rate.     'Tis  pleasant  enough." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"Feb.  \Zth,  1768. 

•'  Dear  Brother, 

"  I  am  unwilling  to  let  slip  this  first  Oppor- 
tunity of  writing  by  a  London  Ship  immediately  from 
this  port  which  has  been  blocked  up  above  two 
Months  by  Ice. 

"  Your  letters  are  extremely  pleasing  when  I  get 
them,  but  they  stay  a  confounded  while  by  the  way. 

"Mr.  Neave  has  been  three  Months  away  and  I 
have  made  about  three  times  as  many  Acquaintances 
in  the  time  as  he  has  done  in  so  many  Years.  Upon 
my  soul  you  are  a  very  fine  Family,  if  you  did  but 
know  it.  A  Cousin  of  yours  who  is  to  be  married 
here  next  week  to  one  of  the  sons  of  the  Chief 
Justice  of  the  Province  is  a  charming  Woman,  tho' 
not  in  my  opinion  so  amiable  as  another  pretty 
cousin  of  yours  whom  I  hope  to  dance  with  at  the 
Assembly  to-morrow." 

Mackrabie  speaks  of  Mr.  Francis's  cousins.  In 
order  to  understand  the  cousinship  we  must  refer  to 
the  Francis  genealogy.  The  Rev.  John  Francis, 
D.D.,  Dean  of  Lismore,  the  grandfather  of  Philip 
Francis,  had  three  sons  and  two  daughters.  The 
sons  were  Richard,  Tench,  and  Philip.  Philip  we 
already  know  as  Dr.  Francis  ;  Richard  practised  at 
the  English  Bar,  lived  in  England,  and  died  young ; 


1768]  Ube  frauds  Xctterg  83 

Tench  emigrated  to  America,  married  Elizabeth 
Turbutt,  of  Kent,  Maryland,  and  afterwards  settled 
at  Philadelphia,  and  became  Recorder  of  that  city. 
A  story  is  told  about  Tench's  marriage.  The 
bride,  Elizabeth  Turbutt,  who  was  the  beauty  of  her 
neighbourhood,  had  been  much  courted  before  she 
accepted  Tench  Francis ;  she  was  also  popular,  so 
that  on  her  marriage-day  the  church  was  filled  with 
her  friends,  admirers,  and  lovers.  When  the  usual 
formal  challenge  was  given  from  the  altar,  if  any 
one  present  was  prepared  to  forbid  the  marriage, 
the  bridegroom  drew  his  sword,  laid  it  upon  the 
altar  steps,  and  turning  round,  faced  the  congrega- 
tion with  an  expression  that  seemed  to  say  he  was 
ready  to  do  battle  for  his  rights  then  and  there. 
The  sons  of  this  marriage  were  called  Tench  and 
Turbutt ;  there  was  a  daughter  who  married  a  man 
of  the  name  of  Tilghman.  Richard,  one  of  the 
sons  of  this  marriage,  became  a  personal  friend  and 
afterwards  a  correspondent  of  Philip  Francis.  Tench, 
Turbutt,  and  Mrs.  Tilghman  were  therefore  first 
cousins  to  Philip  Francis,  and  were  his  contem- 
poraries. 

Tench  was  a  civilian  ;  he  was  cashier  of  the  First 
Bank  of  the  United  States  ;  a  very  decided  Whig, 
he  fought  under  Washington,  attached  to  the  '•  Flying 
Camp."  His  wife's  name  was  Anne  Willing.  The 
granddaughter  of  Tench  and  Anne — Anne  Francis — 
married  James  Bayard,  and  the  son  of  this  marriage, 
Thomas  Francis  Bayard,  after  filling  many  important 
posts  in  the  States,  was  nominated  by  President 
Cleveland   Ambassador   to    Great    Britain    in    1893. 


S4  Xlbe  francis  Xetters  [1768 

He  was  the  first  Ambassador  sent  by  the  United 
States  to  this  country.  Mr.  Bayard  was  extremely 
popular  in  England.  He  represented  America  from 
1893  to  1897. 

Turbutt  Francis,  the  second  son  of  Tench  Francis 
and  Elizabeth  (Turbutt),  was  an  officer  in  the  American 
Army,  in  which  he  attained  the  rank  of  Lieutenant- 
Colonel.  He  fought  under  Washington,  and  was 
killed  during  the  War  of  Independence.  He  made 
acquaintance  with  his  cousin  Philip  during  a  visit  to 
England,  and  corresponded  with  him  occasionally. 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"  March  ^th,  1768. 

"  Dear  Brother, 

"  I  thank  you  very  sincerely  for  your  promise 
of  writing  to  me  by  every  pacquet  and  I  am  as 
determined  you  shall  hear  from  me  at  least  as 
often. 

"  I  have  mentioned  before  how  very  agreeable  [has 
been]  the  Reception  I  have  met  with  from  your 
cousins  here,  more  particularly  so  as  it  has  introduced 
me  to  that  kind  of  Acquaintance  which  is  the  most 
difficult  for  a  stranger  to  obtain  ;  but  which  is  at  the 
same  time  absolutely  necessary  to  his  Comfort,  where 
there  are  no  public  places  of  Diversions ;  I  mean  that 
of  a  few  agreeable  Families  for  a  dish  of  tea  and 
a  dish  of  chat,  without  Ceremony.  I  have  also 
young  men  enough  of  my  Acquaintance.  Taverns 
and  Coffee  Houses  are  not  so  much  frequented  here 
as   they   are  in  London.       I    have  one  weekly  Club 


1768]  Ube  jfrancts  Xctters  85 

at  a   Tavern,    almost  the  only   occasion  on  which    I 
enter  one. 

"  I  shall  only  add,  that  I  assure  you,  my  Friend, 
even  if  my  present  engagements  should  not  detain 
me  long  here,  I  am  in  no  hurry  to  return  to  England ; 
at  least  I  am  resolved  first  to  try  what  this  part  of 
the  Globe  can  do  for  me. 

"  I  observe  from  your  letters  and  others  the  Boston 
Combinations,  and  the  Reception  which  their  reso- 
lutions met  with  in  London.  I  very  sincerely 
believe  that  the  Province  which  I  have  hitherto 
been  in,  is  the  most  moderate  of  any  in  its  conduct 
with  regard  to  the  mother  country  ;  but  they  have  all 
too  violent  principles  of  Independence.  When  I  except 
the  conduct  of  this  Province,  I  mean  only  in  what 
relates  to  England ;  for  in  its  intestine  divisions  it 
is  as  eminent  as  any  of  them.  I  will  look  out  for 
a  Conveyance,  and  send  you  an  Address  or  two  of 
the  House  of  Assembly,  to  the  Governor,  with  the 
answers.  The  people,  growing  rich  and  powerful, 
feel  themselves  uneasy  under  the  weak  reins  of  a 
proprietary  Government,  as  they  express  it,  and  want 
to  be  under  the  more  immediate  Protection  of  the 
Crown.  Is  not  this  a  second  part  to  the  frogs  in 
the  fable? 

"You  must  have  heard  of  the  application  made 
at  home  by  General  Gage  and  Sir  Henry  Moore, 
about  precedence  at  New  York.  I  don't  mean  upon 
their  own  Accounts,  as  that,  I  believe,  is  a  determined 
point ;  but  with  respect  to  their  Ladies  who  cannot 
agree    which    shall    stand    first    couple  in   a   country 


86  XTbc  jfrancts  Xettets  [1768 

Dance.  To  such  lengths  have  their  disputes  been 
carried,  that  this  Winter  there  have  not  been  any 
assemblies  at  all  in  New  York.  But  unluckily  two 
private  Balls  have  been  given,  at  the  first  of  which 
there  were  high  words,  and  Lady  Moore  retired  in 
a  rage.  At  the  other,  which  happened  very  lately, 
that  lady,  calling  for  Sir  Henry's  support,  involved 
him  in  a  quarrel  with  an  Officer  who  presided,  which 
has  at  last  produced  a  formal  Challenge  from  the 
General  to  the  Governor,  who  they  say  has  prudently 
made  the  reply  gracious,  instead  of  the  retort  valiant. 

.  "  Your  political  Postscripts  will  always  afford  me 
entertainment,  nor  need  you  either  fear  my  quoting 
your  authority  or  being  infected  with  the  rage  of 
Party.  I  am  amused  by  such  Subjects,  but  no  more 
seriously  afifected  than  your  wife  would  be,  who 
farther  than  your  interests  are  concerned,  cares  nearly 
as  much  for  a  prime  minister  as  she  does  for  one 
of  Harriet's  old  stockings.  I  would  not  as  a  Friend 
advise  Mr.  G.  Grenville  to  come  and  pass  a  summer 
in  North  America.     It  might  be  unsafe. 

"  I  don't  know  if  anything  can  make  Mrs.  Chandler 
perfectly  happy.  She  has  long  seemed  to  enjoy 
every  Comfort  riches  can  give.  The  noble  House 
you  describe  will  be  an  Object  for  some  time  ;  but 
everything  loses  its  value  after  a  long  Enjoyment.  I 
am  sure  I  find  it  so  in  many  things.  Some  pairs  of 
silk  Stockings  which  I  greatly  admired,  and  have  long 
been  intimate  with,  are  now  become  so  unpleasing  to 
my  eyes,  that  I  am  resolved  to  see  but  half  of  them  at 


1768]  Ubc  Stands  Xetters  87 

a  time,  meaning  to  cover  the  lower  parts,  in  which 
are  many  apparent  marks  of  venerable  Age,  with  a 
kind  of  half  Spatter-dashes  of  black  Cloth  in  vogue 
here.  I  must  have  some  new  ones  for  Holiday  and 
fine  weather.  I  will  therefore  trouble  you  to  buy  six 
Pairs  agreeable  to  pattern  I  shall  send  you  very  soon. 

"  Here  is  a  parcel  of  nonsense  buzzing  about  of  Wars 
and  Tumults.  The  King  of  Prussia  and  the  Dutch, 
and  I  don't  know  what  all.  I  don't  care  half  so  much 
about  the  nations  upon  Earth  as  I  do  for  your  health, 
welfare,  and  happiness.  That  they  may  all  remain 
fixed  upon  the  best  and  firmest  Basis  is  the  wish  and 
prayer  of  him  who  is,  my  dear  Philip, 

"  Unutterably  yours, 

"  Alex.   Mackrabie." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  London, 
"Marck  i2th,  1768. 

"  As  long  as  you  grow  fat  in  America,  you 
may  be  said  to  be  in  a  thriving  Condition  ;  the 
future  must  take  care  of  itself  But  would  it 
not  be  worth  your  Prudence  to  consider  what  is 
to  be  done  when  your  term  with  Mr.  Neave 
expires  ?  Undoubtedly  you  have  considered  of 
it ;  yet  if  you  should  not  be  able  to  resolve  on 
anything,  I  am  sure  I  enter  too  much  into  your 
Situation  to  blame  you.  We  have  long  since  agreed 
how  easy  it  is  to  find  fault ;  but  whoever  fails  you, 
be  always  assured  that  my  heart  will  for  ever  be 
open  to  you ;  in  short,  if  you  cannot  determine  upon 


88  xrbe  jFrancis  Xettcrs  [1768 

any  plan  where  you  are,  you  have  nothing  to  do 
but  return  to  my  House  and  stay  in  it  until  something 
else  can  be  thought  of.  My  house  is  your  sure  retreat. 
So  be  not  unhappy  about  a  disappointment  more  or 
less,  nor  let  any  untoward  Accident  discourage  you, 
since  you  will  always  have  the  means  of  keeping  your 
head  above  water  with  me.  I  so  much  agree  with 
you  about  landed  possessions  in  America,  and  the 
Security  that  may  arise  from  them  hereafter,  that  I 
shall  commission  my  cousin  Captain  Francis,  who  is 
now  here,  to  purchase  a  thousand  Acres  for  me  in  the 
course  of  next  summer,  which  he  assures  me  he  can 
do  for  a  mere  trifle  By  the  by,  this  is  a  noble  fellow, 
and  if  you  meet  him  in  America  will,  I  am  sure, 
contribute  not  a  little  to  the  happiness  of  your  life 
there.  My  other  unfortunate  Cousin,  so  far  as  I  can 
learn,  for  I  never  see  him,  has  no  sort  of  prospect 
of  being  extricated  from  his  difficulties  without  an 
immense  loss.     Poor  fellow !     I  feel  for  him. 

"  Wilkes  is  setting  up  for  the  City  of  London.  We 
are  all  as  mad  about  Elections  as  ever  you  Americans 
were  about  the  Stamp  Act.  I  do  not  recollect  anything 
else  that  has  happened  here  worth  your  attention. 

"  Pray  let  me  know  how  my  cousins  in  general  have 
received  you,  or  whether  you  have  had  any  sign  of 
life  from  Captain  Maturin. 

**  It  is  now  generally  thought  that  Jack  Wilkes 
will  be  elected  for  the  City  of  London.  He  dined 
with  the  Lord  Mayor  yesterday  with  the  rest  of 
the  candidates. 

"Yours, 

"P.  F." 


1768]  xrbe  ifrancts  Xetters  89 

When  Francis  wrote  to  his  brother-in-law,  offering 
him  a  home,  he  was  still  only  a  clerk  in  the  War 
Office,  had  a  young  and  increasing  family,  and  was 
helping  to  support  his  own  father  and  the  parents 
of  his  wife. 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Bath, 
^'' September  yd,  1768. 

Dear  Phil, 

"When  I  used  to  read  pretty  Books,  I  was 
much  pleased  with  the  Hero  of  one  of  them,  who  had 
laid  up  a  sum  of  money,  which  he  called  the  Bank 
of  Friendship.  He  lent  it  without  interest  to  his 
friends,  if  indeed  we  can  lend  Money  to  a  friend 
without  interest.  Whether  you  have  such  a  bank  I 
do  not  know,  but  I  was  at  an  anchor  here  last  week, 
and  bid  upon  the  Credit  of  it  for  somewhat  more  than 
necessaries.  I  am  therefore  compelled  to  tell  you  I 
shall  be  much  obliged  to  you  for  a  thirty  pound  note 
next  post.  Beside  the  interest  of  Friendship,  I  shall 
with  pleasure  pay  any  expence  that  attends  it,  when 
either  my  spiritual  or  temporal  revenues  come  in." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Mrs.  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"  9/*  March,  1768. 

Dear  Sister, 

"You  are  very  kind  in  telling  me  you  will 
in  general  look  upon  my  letters  to  my  Brother  as 
answers  to  those  I  may  also  have  the  pleasure  of 
receiving  from  you.  If  a  number  of  my  letters  to 
you   were    wanting  to  give  proof  of  my  Affection,  I 


90  XTbe  fvancis  Xetters  [1768 

should  write  often  ;  but  I  hope  that  test  is  not 
necessary.  I  would  wish  to  entertain  you,  if  possible, 
with  my  Correspondence ;  but  at  this  place  and  at 
this  season  there  is  so  little  of  anything  amusing, 
that  it  is  with  the  utmost  difficulty  (or,  as  Philip 
says,  with  *  mere  pulling  and  bawling ')  I  can  furnish 
out  matter  for  one  letter ;  and,  upon  my  modesty, 
I  have  two  more  to  write  by  the  Spanish  pacquet 
after  I  finish  this.  I  have  your  kind  Favours  of  the 
1 2th  September  and  12th  December,  which  came 
to  my  hands  about  the  same  periods  as  if  they  had 
been  dispatched  on  the  1 2th  November  and  December 
such  is  the  uncertainty  of  winds  and  waves.  I  am 
charmed  with  your  Accounts  of  the  three  dear  little 
girls.  I  know  you  are  quite  impartial.  I  often  think 
of  them ;  if  they  continue  to  improve,  and  at  the 
same  rate,  it  will  be  unsafe  to  be  acquainted  with 
them  some  years  hence.  Should  you  know  (which  I 
hope  you  do  not)  any  ladies  who  wish  to  be  married 
and  are  not  so,  advise  them  to  come  to  this  Country, 
where  they  [may]  depend  upon  getting  Husbands 
immediately.  The  good  people  are  marrying  one 
another  as  if  they  had  not  a  day  to  live.  I  alledge 
it  to  a  plot  against  the  State,  and  that  the  ladies 
(who  are  all  politicians  in  America)  are  determined 
to  raise  young  Rebels  to  fight  against  old  England. 

"  I  am  very  much  obliged  to  all  my  friends  for 
their  kind  enquiries.  If  there  should  by  chance 
be  two  or  three  people  beside  our  own  Family 
who  yet  remember  me,  and  wish  to  hear  of  my 
welfare,  please  to  tell  them  I  am  alive  and  hearty, 
fat   and    well    liking ;    and    tho'    I     never    can    see 


1768]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  91 

England  but  in  my  dreams,  I  often  think  of  it  with 
pleasure. 

"  I  thank  you  much  for  executing  my  little  com- 
mission at  Christmas.  All  my  letters  from  home, 
tho'  in  general  pleasing,  have  some  little  Alloy  of 
pain.  Colds  and  swelled  legs  or  faces,  rheumatic 
twitches,  and  so  forth ;  these  things  must  be.  I 
have  my  little  grumblings  sometimes ;  but  have  I 
not  at  the  same  time  great,  very  great,  cause  to  be 
thankful  for  many  Blessings  I  enjoy,  which  in  the 
ordinary  course  of  things  I  had  no  title  to  expect  at 
this  time  ?  We  are  all,  thro'  the  divine  goodness, 
secure  to  be  as  blessed  as  we  can  fear.  I  think  to 
copy  this  into  my  Fulham  letter.  I  don't  know  that 
I  have  philosophised  so  much  of  a  long  time. 

"  '  Pray '  (as  old  Polonius  says)  '  when  you  was 
young  and  in  love,'  did  you  approve  of  Serenading  ? 
It  is  extremely  in  Vogue  here  now.  The  manner 
is  as  follows  :  We — with  four  or  five  young  Officers 
of  the  regiment  in  barracks — drink  as  hard  as  we 
can  to  keep  out  the  cold,  and  about  midnight 
sally  forth,  attended  by  the  Band  which  consists 
of  ten  musicians,  horns,  clarionets,  hautboys,  and 
bassoons,  march  through  the  streets  and  play  under 
the  window  of  any  lady  you  choose  to  distinguish, 
which  they  esteem  a  high  Compliment.  ...  I  have 
been  out  twice  and  only  once  got  a  violent  cold 
by  it. 

"  We  have  no  plays  or  public  diversions  of  any 
kind ;  not  so  much  as  a  walk  for  the  ladies,  so  that 
there  is  no  opportunity  of  seeing  them  but  at  Church, 
or   their   own    Houses,    or   once   a   fortnight   at   the 


92  Ubc  ftancis  Xetters  [1768 

Assembly.  I  have  been  to  some  of  their  assemblies, 
and  have  danced  once  with  a  charming  girl,  a  Cousin 
of  yours ;  but  you  never  saw  her,  nor  in  all  likelihood 
ever  will.  I  shall  therefore  only  tell  you  I  was  very 
happy,  and  very  much  envied.  This  is  not  the  season 
to  get  furs  from  the  Indian  country,  and  when  they 
do  come  I  don't  know  if  there  are  any  fit  for  ladies' 
wear ;  but  I  am  determined  at  some  time  or  other 
to  send  you  something  to  remember  me  by,  if  it 
should  even  be  a  Bear,  as  O'Brien  did  to  your  friend 
Foote. 

"  When  you  see  Mr.  Fitzpatrick,  Roberts,  Marsh, 
or  Grainer,  give  my  love  to  them.  I  would  send  it 
by  Philippe's  letter,  but  I  knew  he  would  drop  it 
out  and  forget  to  deliver  it ;  and  please  to  remember 
always  that  you  can  hardly  think  of  anybody  who 
loves  you  more  warmly  and  sincerely  than  does, 

"My  dearest  Betsy, 

"  Alex.  Mackrabie." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  London, 
"  April  i6th,  1768. 

"  I  had  written  so  far  when  yesterday  your  several 
letters  of  February  i8th  and  March  19th  were  brought 
to  me.  You  are  very  good  to  write  so  much,  and  I 
assure  you  it  pleases  me  not  a  little  to  see  that  you 
can  write  in  such  good  spirits,  and  with  so  much 
spirit.  If  these  Cousins  of  mine  are  so  handsome,  and 
so  clever,  and  so  inviting,  take  care  of  your  Heart. 
Observe  that  I  forbid  the   bans.      Pray  take  every 


1768]  xrbe  ifrancts  Xetters  93 

opportunity  that  ofifers  of  assuring  the  handsomest  of 
my  cousins  what  a  respect  I  bear  to  female  Beauty, 
and   that,    since  they  are   handsome  I    do    not   love 
them    the  less  for  being  my  relations. 

"  The  family  of  the  Tenches  I  take  for  granted  are 
now  compleately  happy.  If  the  father  has  any  of  that 
Christian  patience  you  talk  of  it  is  by  no  means 
thrown  away  upon  him.  Your  letter  from  Madeira 
arrived  sometime  after  your  first  from  New  York. 
Your  account  of  the  disputes  about  Precedence  between 
General  Gage  and  Sir  Henry  Moore  is  perfectly 
ridiculous.  Is  it  possible  for  grave  men  to  fight  about 
a  place  in  a  country  dance  ? " 


Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"London, 
''May  14/^,  1768. 

"  My  dear  Friend  and  Brother, 

"  Mr.  Wilkes  has  been  in  the  King's  Bench 
Prison  this  fortnight,  and  must  remain  there  till  next 
term,  when  the  errors  of  his  Outlawry  are  to  be  argued 
again  His  friends,  to  the  number  of  many  thousands, 
have  taken  possession  of  St.  George's  Fields,  and 
beleaguer  the  Prison.  Many  lives  have  been  lost, 
yet  the  mischief  is  likely  to  continue  if  not  in- 
crease. .   .  . 

"You  may  say  what  you  please  of  your  Americans, 
but  I'll  be  curst  if  we  don't  match  you  for  Riots.  The 
worst  on't  that  they  keep  me  at  the  War  Office 
many  hours  a  day  more  than  I  like.  Such  marching 
and  counter-marching !     The   Horse-Guards   had   no 


94  XTbe  f  rands  Xettew  [1768 

conception  of  such  hot  service.  Many  of  them  who 
quitted  their  Trades  without  any  other  view  but  to 
become  private  Gentlemen,  complain  loudly  that  the 
contract  with  them  is  dissolved,  and  are  determined 
to  retire.  Mr.  Wade's  billiard  match,  on  which  other 
people  have  many  thousands,  and  I  have  ten,  pounds 
depending,  is  to  be  played  to-night.  My  reason  is 
convinced  I  shall  win,  but  the  risk  of  such  a  sum  is 
enough  to  alarm  the  Passions.  The  villain  is  brought 
on  purpose  from  Naples  to  give  Mr.  Wade  two 
and  beat  him.  He  is  not  half  so  like  a  man  as  a 
monkey.  Foote  swears  he  remembers  him  keeping 
a  glass  shop  on  the  top  of  Mount  Vesuvius.  He 
has  had  a  particular  dress  made  for  him  to  play  in, 
and  never  was  anything  more  ridiculous !  Having 
no  more  nonsense  to  spare  at  present  I  shall  con- 
clude in  sober  truth  and  sadness, 

"Yours 

"  P.  F." 


Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"New  York, 
" /\ih  June,  1768. 

"  Dear  Brother, 

"  I  am  but  just  arrived  and  find  a  ship  on 
the  point  of  sailing  for  London. 

"  I  was  very  fortunate  in  my  Company  hither.  I 
came  with  a  young  Gentleman  of  one  of  the  first 
Families  in  the  City  who  has  lately  married  a  very 
pretty  agreeable  Girl  in  Philadelphia  ;  so  that  I  shall 
get  into  parties  both  male  and  Female  while  I 
continue   among   them.      We   met    Captain    Francis 


1768]  Zbc  jf rands  Xetters  95 

upon  the  Road,  but  I  did  not  know  him,  I  hope  to 
see  him  in  Philadelphia.  His  Character  makes  me 
very  desirous  of  an  Acquaintance  with  him,  and  I  am 
not  upon  bad  Terms  with  his  Family,  This  is  an 
Advantage  I  have  to  thank  you  for,  as  well  as  for 
almost  every  other  which  does  me  Credit  on  this  side 
of  the  Water.  Your  kind  offer  of  an  Asylum  if  I 
should  be  driven  back  to  my  native  Soil  obliges  me 
very  much.     I  am  truly  sensible  of  your  Friendship. 

"  I  cannot  form  any  Scheme  of  settlement  yet.  .  .  . 
I  am  endeavouring  to  save  a  little  Fund  if  possible  to 
ramble  upon.  ...  I  know  you  sympathise  with  me 
in  all  my  Ups  and  downs ;  you  shall  always  be 
made  acquainted  with  my  Plans. 

"  You  will  certainly  be  right  in  making  a  purchase 
of  lands  in  America,  and  no  time  so  proper  as  the 
present.  They  are  to  be  had  at  a  lower  rate  now 
than  could  have  been  at  any  period  for  years  past — 
owing  to  the  extreme  scarcity  of  money. 

"  So  Master  Wilkes  has  got  in  at  last.  I  suppose 
he  has  not  obtained  a  Pardon  ;  you  would  have  men- 
tioned it  if  he  had.  ...  I  said  before  I  am  but  just 
arrived  here.  This  is  a  better  Place  for  Company 
and  Amusements  than  Philadelphia ;  more  Gay  and 
lively.     I   have  already  seen  some   pretty  women. 

'•  You  may  tell  my  sister  that  I  get  acquainted  with 
Families,  and  drink  Tea,  and  play  at  Cards ;  and  go 
about  to  Assemblies  dancing  minuets.  I  shall  hardly 
get  any  Dancing  here.  It  is  growing  very  hot,  and 
Sir  Harry  Moore  is  gone  back  into  the  country  ;  they 
say  Land  Jobbing.     I   am  stunned  with  the  firing  of 


96  XCbc  iFranciB  Xettcrs  [1768 

Guns  and  Crackers,  on  account  of  the  King's  Birthday; 
all  the  town  illuminated.  The  General  makes  all  the 
Officers  in  the  Town  drunk  at  his  House.  I  have 
nothing  new,  but  hope  to  have  a  great  deal  more 
to  write  to  you  when  I  have  seen  something  of 
New  York. 

"  A  Mr.  Andrew  Seton,  who  was  a  Bankrupt  about 
twelve  months  ago  in  London  (my  sister  knows 
his  wife),  is  just  arrived  here  with  his  Family — six 
Children ;  and  has  already  purchased  an  Estate,  to 
cost  him  about  Five  Thousand  Pounds.  Is  not  that 
worth   breaking  for  ?     This  is  a  Fact. 

'*A.  M." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"War  Office, 
"Jung  lUh,  1768. 

"  My  dear  Mac, 

"  This  letter  will  be  probably  a  short  one 
for  a  very  good  reason — because  I  have  not  Materials 
to  make  it  a  long  one,  for  you  know  I  do  not  mind 
Trouble  ;  not  I.  A  letter  of  yours,  dated  in  March, 
is  arrived  since  I  wrote  last,  but  I  think  it  does  not 
require  any  particular  answer,  and  if  it  did — for  I 
have  left  it  at  Home. 

•'  Domestic  news  is  as  insipid  as  usual.  Children 
bawling,  servants  fighting,  my  Wife  scolding,  your 
father  and  mother  weeping,  and  Patty  ^  raving  mad. 
These,  with  the  addition  of  a  preternatural  Appearance, 
and  some  unaccountable  Noises  which  have  been 
repeatedly  in  my  house  in  Duke  Street  at  the  dead 
of  night,  make  up  the  perpetual  History  of  my  family. 
^  A  cousin  of  Mrs.  Francis  who  lived  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mackrabie. 


1768]  ^be  jfrancis  Xetters  97 

Without  a  jest  I  have    myself  heard   a    most   extra- 
ordinary ringing   of  bells   about    midnight,  and  have 

never  been  able  to  discover  the  cause. 

"  P.  F." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"New  York, 
"  i2)th  June,  1768. 

"  Here  are  no  Diversions  at  all  at  present.  The 
Plays  are  over,  and  I  told  you  some  time  since  the 
Cause  of  there  being  no  Assemblies.  I  have  gone 
dining  about  from  House  to  House,  but  meet  with  the 
same  dull  round  of  Topics  everywhere — Lands, 
Madeira-wine,  fishing  Parties,  or  Politics,  make  up  the 
sum  Total.  They  have  a  vile  Practice  here,  which  is 
peculiar  to  this  City  :  I  mean  that  of  playing  at  Back- 
Gammon  (a  Noise  I  detest),  which  is  going  forward 
in  the  public  Coffee-House  from  Morning  till  Night, 
frequently  ten  or  a  dozen  Tables  at  a  time.  I  think 
a  single  man  in  America  is  one  of  the  most  wretched 
beings  I  can  conceive ;  yet  your  friend  Atchy  Thompson 
is  still  a  Batchelor ;  but  he  talks  of  going  to  Europe 
immediately  upon  the  return  of  his  Partner,  I  believe 
to  settle  in  Ireland  or  London.  He  is  a  good-natured 
youth,  and  I  believe  in  a  very  good  way  ;  at  least  I  can 
answer  for  his  having  a  good  House  and  good  Wine. 

"  I  live  a  tolerably  Jolly  Life,  but  I  see  no  prospect 
of  getting  rich.  Plague  take  this  Subordination.  I 
want  to  make  a  Ramble  about  200  miles  up 
the  country.  Sir  Wm.  Johnson  holds  a  Congress 
of  a  vast  number  of  Indian  tribes.     The  Governor  is 

7 


98  Zbc  fvmcis  Xcttcrs  [1768 

going  up  thither,  and  a  great  many  Strangers.  I  have 
a  violent  Curiosity  to  see  something  of  that  Nature, 
but  have  had  no  Opportunity  yet.  I  must  and  will 
save  a  little  money  for  Amusements  by  and  by. 
Heavens !  what  an  immense  Country  this  is !  If 
I  should  meet  with  two  or  three  disappointments,  I 
don't  know  but  I  may  set  down  upon  a  Tract  and 
plant  Cabbages." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"New  York, 
"i^thjune,  1768. 

"  I  am  here  still.  There  never  was  such  uncom- 
fortable Weather.  It  has  blown  a  Hurricane  these  two 
days,  and  rained  constantly.  I  am  prevented  crossing 
the  Ferry  to  set  out  for  Philadelphia.  So  uncertain  is 
this  Climate,  that  in  the  morning  you  may  wear  a 
suit  of  Cloth  Cloaths,  at  noon  sit  in  your  shirt  with 
windows  and  doors  open,  and  in  the  Evening  of  the 
same  day  wrap  yourself  in  a  fur  Cloak.  I  wish  I 
had  one  here  now. 

"  Among  the  many  disputes  in  this  and  the  more 
northern  parts  of  America,  the  religious  are  not  the 
least.  The  zealous  members  of  the  Church  of  England 
are  full  of  Apprehensions  at  the  great  and  growing 
power  of  the  Presbyterians.  Don't  imagine  that  I 
mean  in  any  matters  that  regard  Salvation  ;  that  Affair 
might  have  been  left  to  shift  for  itself  at  Doomsday. 
The  Alarm  was  taken  at  an  Election  lately  ;  since 
which  the  Parties  have  raged  with  tolerable  violence. 
The  Church  People,  conscious  that  the  Presbyterians, 
who  have  the  Appointment  of  their  own  Ministers, 
must  always  outnumber  them,  are  desirous  of  having 


1768]  XTbe  3f rands  Xetters  99 

some  Person  here  vested  with  the  Power  of 
Ordination  —  but  they  don't  like  a  Bishop,  nor 
Ecclesiastical  Courts,  in  short,  they  don't  know  what 
they  want.  You  remember  Dean  Swift  was  to  have 
been  made  Bishop  of  Virginia.  The  Presbyterians 
should  not  be  allowed  to  grow  too  great.  They  are 
all  of  republican  Principles.  The  Bostonians  are 
Presbyterians.  Now  I  talk  of  Church  matters,  pray 
where  is  Rosenhagen  ?  ^  I  am  fearful  he  is  very 
inattentive  to  his  Flock  in  Florida.  We  just"  now 
hear  that  Major  Rogers  has  been  playing  the  Devil 
at  his  Fort,  and  that  he  had  a  scheme  of  seizing 
another,  and  giving  up  both  to  the  Indians  to 
plunder.     It  is  said  he  is  coming  down  here  in  Irons. 

"  I  must  have  now  done.  I  am  afraid  all  this 
Nonsense  will  tire  you,  but  'tis  the  best  matter  I  have. 
So  as  you  can  get  no  more  of  the  Cat  than  the  Skin, 
you  must  take  the  will  for  the  deed.  I  am  just  setting 
out  for  Philadelphia  upon  a  hired  Horse,  full  speed. 

'*  So  Farewell  at  once,  my  dear  brother. 

"  I  am  most  affectionately  and  cordially  yours, 

"  A.  Mackrabie." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"  \^th  August,  1768. 

"  Mv  DEAR  Brother, 

"  I  wrote  you  by  the  last  pacquet,  which 
dispatched  from  New  York  in  June,  and  the  May 
pacquet  is  but  just  arrived  here.  It  brings  me  your 
favour  of  14th  May.  We  had  not  received  any 
Accounts  from  England  for  so  long  a  Time,  that  we 
^  Rosenhagen  was  at  this  time  a  chaplain  in  the  army. 


loo  XTbe  jprancts  Xettcrs  [1768 

began  to  think  the  Winds  and  Waves  had  combined 
to  compleat  the  separation  that  Politics  had  begun. 
You  out-do  us  altogether  in  Riots  and  Combinations. 
God  knows  how  it  will  end.  We  have  nothing  new 
in  this  quarter,  not  even  in  public  matters.  Modera- 
tion is  our  System. 

"  I  am  very  fond  of  your  Cousin  the  Colonel.  We 
have  been  taking  a  Ramble  together  sixty  miles  up 
the  Country — the  first  Inland  View  I  have  had  of  it. 
Our  chief  object  was  Bethlehem  (not  of  Judea,  but,) 
a  settlement  of  Moravians,  about  a  Thousand  in 
Number.  This  little  Society  live  together  upon  a 
Plan  very  like  that  of  the  Jesuits  in  Paraguay :  a 
religious  Government.  They  have  among  them 
Mechanics  and  Manufacturers  of  every  kind  necessary 
for  their  own  Accommodation,  and,  I  believe,  the 
most  compleat  Farm  in  America.  They  have  their 
own  Schools,  which  are  not  contemptible,  their  own 
Language,  own  Customs  and  Religion.  Music,  in 
which  they  are  almost  all  proficients,  is  an  Article  of 
their  Religion.  So  far,  their  state  is  a  natural  one ;  but 
the  poor  Devils  have  no  property  ;  the  Labors  of  each 
Individual  being  dedicated  to  the  General  Advantage 
of  the  Community,  from  whose  stock  each  has  his 
Portion  of  necessary  Comforts  (not  even  excepting 
their  Wives)  allotted  according  to  the  pleasure  of  the 
directing  fathers.  The  Children  are  the  Children  of 
the  State.  I  need  not  tell  you  they  are  not  Free 
Agents,  as  you  know  well  enough  it  is  nothing  but 
property  can  make  us  so, 

"  1  am  never  sick,  and  but  seldom  sorry.     Farewell, 


1768]  xrbe  ifrancis  Xetters  loi 

my  Friend.     Give  my  best  love    to    my   Sister,   and 
teach  your  Children  to  remember  me  in  their  Prayers. 
"  So  God  bless  you  all,  says 

"  Your  faithful, 

"A.  Mackrabie." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  London, 
''Oa.  3,  1768. 

"  I  am  now  to  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  Aug. 
17th.  Pliny  himself  could  not  write  better.  Your 
account  of  the  Moravians  is  pleasant  enough.  .  .  . 
We  are  all  raving  mad  about  the  King  of  Denmark's 
masquerade.  The  Tickets  bear  a  higher  premium 
than  those  in  the  Lottery. 

"  Pray  keep  a  look  out  about  the  lands  ;  though 
may  I  be  eternally  curst,  if  I  ever  cross  the  Atlantic, 
at  least  at  my  own  Expense." 

In  a  letter  written  to  his  father  about  this  time, 
Philip  Francis  recorded  the  birth  of  his  son  and  his 
own  recovery  from   a  severe   illness. 

Dr.  Francis  to  Philip  Francis. 

*'  Bath, 
"  October  6th,  1768. 

"  Will  one  letter  be  sufficient  for  my  congratulations 
upon  three  such  happy  Events — your  Wife's  recovery 
from  that  hour  of  Terror ;  your  own  from  a  very 
alarming  Disorder  ;  and  the  Birth  of  your  Son  ?  You 
are   now,  my  dear    Phil,  beginning   to   be  a  Father 


I02  XCbe  ifrancis  Xetters  [1768 

with  other  duties  and  affections  than  you  have  ever 
yet  known.  A  Mother  dresses  her  Girls,  and  makes 
their  persons  fine,  a  science  which  she  well  under- 
stands ;  but  in  his  Boys,  a  Father's  cares  are  employed 
in  forming  their  hearts  to  virtue,  to  sentiments  of 
humanity,  and  improving  their  minds  by  his  superior 
knowledge  and  Experience.  Perhaps  the  papers 
which  I  am  now  drawing  up  for  Mr.  Calcraft's  boy 
may  not  be  unuseful  to  yours. 

"  Sally  begs  of  me  to  send  her  Congratulations  ; 
I  dare  vouch  them  very  sincere. 

"Be  so  good  as  to  send  me  half  a  pound  of  16^. 
green  tea." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
'"ind  January,  1769. 

"  I  am  quite  tired  of  plodding  for  ever  in  this 
confounded  Quaker  Town.  Plague  take  it !  I  work 
without  getting  rich.  You  can  never  have  had  a 
party  in  a  Sleigh  or  Sledge,  for  I  recollect  it  was 
summer  when  you  were  in  Holland.  I  had  a  very 
clever  one  a  few  days  ago.  Seven  Sleighs  with 
two  Ladies  and  two  men  in  each,  preceded  by 
F idlers  on  horseback,  set  out  together  upon  a 
snow  of  about  a  foot  deep  on  the  Roads,  to  a 
Public-House  a  few  Miles  from  Town,  where  we 
danced,  sung,  and  romped  and  eat  and  drank, 
and  kicked  away  Care  from  Morning  till  Night, 
and  finished  our  Frolic  in  two  or  three  Side-boxes 
at  the  Play. 


1769]  XEbe  ifrancis  Xetters  103 

"  You  can  have  no  Idea  of  the  state  of  the  Pulse 
seated  with  pretty  Women,  mid  deep  in  straw,  your 
Body  armed  with  Furs  and  flannel,  clear  air,  bright 
Sunshine,  and  spotless  sky.  Horses  galloping,  every 
feeling  turned  to  Joy  and  Jollity !  I  wished  heartily 
to  have  had  you  amongst  us,  and  so  did  Cousin 
Tubby. 

"  The  Family  here  are  in  daily  expectation  of  Mr. 
Tench  Francis's  arrival.  I  fancy  he  will  come  in 
good  Spirits,  for  from  what  I  hear  his  Affairs  have 
turned  out  more  fortunately  than  was  expected." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"War  Office, 
"  January  4/^,  1769. 

"  My  dear  Mac, 

"  I  am  just  returned  from  spending  a  riotous 
fortnight  at  Bath.  Gravier  and  two  others  filled  a 
Post  Coach,  which  was  dragged  with  no  small  velocity 
by  four  Horses.  We  travelled  like  Gentlemen,  and 
lived  like  Rakes.  All  our  news  here  is  that  Wilkes 
is  elected  Alderman  of  Farringdon  Without.  At  this 
rate  I  see  no  reason  why  he  may  not  be  Sheriff  and 
Lord  Mayor  in  regular  succession ;  and  why  not 
Prime  Minister  before  he  dies.  In  short  nothing 
can  be  more  ridiculous  than  every  thing  that  happens 
about  this  Gentleman.  Every  attempt  that  has  been 
made  to  injure  or  oppress  him,  has  in  reality  done 
him  Service  ;  yet  after  all  I  apprehend  he  will  in- 
fallibly be  expelled  the  House  of  Commons.  The 
Election   for   Middlesex  has    raised  such  a  Ferment, 


I04  Zbc  francis  Xetters  [1769 

that  even  America  has  been  laid  aside,  and  Corsica 
not  once  thought  of.  The  Ministry  was  supposed  to 
be  in  a  strange  state  of  confusion,  and  many  changes 
are  actually  talked  of  So  much  for  news  and 
Politics. 

"  P.  F." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"  2Sik  January,  1769. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  I  wrote  you  by  the  last  pacquet,  and  now 
have  yours  of  the  roth  September  and  5th  October 
and  2nd  November  before  me.  I  give  you  Joy  of 
your  son.  I  don't  know  how  you  feel  on  the 
Occasion,  but  methinks  I  seem  a  greater  Man  now  I 
am  Uncle  to  a  Nephew.  I  am  informed  your  Daughters 
are  most  accomplished  young  women.  My  Father 
writes  me  he  is  their  Tutor  for  languages,  and  takes 
especial  care  to  make  them  speak  plain  and  distinctly. 
I  don't  doubt  but  like  poor  la  Fleur,  he  has  *  toutes 
les  dispositions  quon  peut  avoir ; — mais — '  in  short, 
I  hope  he  will  have  better  success  with  them  than 
he  has  had  with  his  Son. 

I  have  got  a  little  Box  which  shall  be  sent  you  by 
a  ship  from  this  port,  in  about  a  week.  It  contains 
something  from  the  Colonel — I  don't  know  what. 
That  Cousin  of  yours  and  I  have  had  some  Converse 
about  Lands.  He  is  managing  his  own  matters  in 
that  way,  and  has  promised  to  take  care  of  a  Thousand 
Acres  for  you.  I  have  on  my  part  engaged  that  the 
Money  for  the  Charges,  whatever  they  are,  shall  be 
forthcoming." 


1769]  Zbc  jfrancis  Xetters  105 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  War  Office, 

"  My  dear  Brother,  '      ^' 

"  Your  friend  Mr.  Wharton  has  delivered 
his  Credentials.  I  have  been,  and  shall  be,  as  civil 
to  him  as  I  possibly  can.  He  gives  me  such  an 
account  of  you  as  is  enough  to  make  me  love  the  man 
without  farther  Recommendations.  He  says  you  are 
better  received  than  any  young  man  that  ever  went  to 
America,  and  that  you  are  likely,  if  the  trade  be  not 
quite  lost,  to  form  such  commercial  Connexions  as  you 
may  improve  to  a  happy  Establishment  at  home.  I 
wish  you  yourself  would  give  me  some  hints  of  this 
nature  to  keep  up  my  Spirits. 

"Apropos,  I  condole  with  you  on  the  Death  of 
your  Aunt.  One  naturally  grieves  at  the  Death  of 
a  person  who  leaves  one  nothing  to  rejoice  at.  This 
has  been  always  my  case.  No  poor  devil  ever  had  so 
little  reason  to  rejoice  at  the  death  of  his  relations." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  London, 
__  _  ''Afay  $th,  1769. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  The  last  packet  brought  me  no  letter 
from  Philadelphia,  so  I  have  nothing  to  answer.  If 
you  do  not  furnish  me  with  materials,  the  stream  of 
my  Correspondence  will  flow  in  a  narrow  Channel. 
We  have  Politics  enough,  God  knows,  but  as  I  have 
not  the  honour  to  be  entrusted  with  the  secrets  of 
either  party,  I  can  give  you  nothing  but  what  you  will 
see  much  more  elegantly  set  forth  in  the  Newspapers. 


io6  Ube  ifrancis  Xettcrs  [1769 

Truth  is  out  of  the  question.  Each  party  says  and 
believes  just  what  suits  themselves  without  decency  or 
moderation,  and  a  neutral  party  is  detested  by  both. 
A  Philosopher  has  no  more  chance  among  them  than 
a  Cat  in  hell.  (I  wish,  by  the  by,  that  the  person 
who  stole  my  cat  were  in  the  warmest  corner  the 
devil  could  find  for  him.) " 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"War  Office, 
June  7,  1769. 

"  Dear  Mac, 

"  The  present  state  of  Politics  stands  thus : 
the  French  have  lately  received  a  severe  check  in 
Corsica.  Government  assists  Paoli  underhand,  and 
Subscriptions  are  openly  advertised  for  individuals  to 
pay  in  their  contributions  to  the  cause  of  Liberty. 

"  The  Turks  have  been  defeated  and  lost  a  place  of 
some  importance.  It  is  thought  that  this  rupture  with 
Russia  will  be  fatal  to  the  Ottoman  Empire.  Poland 
is  ruined ;  Denmark  is  armed  and  in  a  strong  state  of 
defence ;  the  King  of  Sweden  has  declared  his  resolu- 
tion to  remain  quiet  and  take  no  turn  or  part  either  way. 

"  Lord  North  has  assured  the  House  of  Commons 
that  at  the  opening  of  next  Session  there  is  a 
Resolution  to  accommodate  matters  with  America 
to  the  satisfaction  of  all  parties." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
August  loth,  1769. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  I  have  yours  by  the  May  and  June 
Pacquets  now  before  me,  and  I  thank  you  for  your 


1769]  XCbe  ifrancis  Xetters  107 

Anecdotes.  You  seem  to  think  such  Matters  of  no 
great  Consequence,  but  I  assure  you  they  are.  Every 
Pacquet  gives  me  the  Dignity  of  an  Oracle.  *  Mack, 
what  do  your  Letters  say  ?  You  must  have  News  ?  and 
your  Intelligence  is  the  best,  &c.'  Your  ministerial 
Gentry  will  not  gain  their  Point  with  all  their  promises. 
The  Resolvers  are  very  steady,  and  have  newly 
determined  not  to  abate  in  the  smallest  degree  till 
the  Acts  are  actually  repealed.  By  the  by,  we  have 
had  two  or  three  very  odd  Occurrences  upon  the 
Subject  of  Importations. 

"  A  discontented  Gentleman  made  a  Purchase  of  a 
Cheshire  Cheese  last  week  ;  and  another  Malcontent 
thought  to  drown  his  Resentments  in  a  Hogshead  of 
English  Entire  Butt.  These  Delicacies  happened 
misfortunately  to  be  shipt  from  Europe  after  the 
Resolutions  on  this  side  had  transpired,  and  of  con- 
sequence Messrs.  of  the  Committee  took  the  liberty  to 
interfere.  The  Purchasers  made  a  gallant  stand  in 
defence  of  their  bellies,  but  their  Opposition  was  vain. 
Hard  words  and  bad  Names  flew  about  in  support  of 
Liberty.  They  cursed  and  swore,  kicked  and  cuffed 
and  pulled  Noses  ;  but  the  Catastrophe  was,  that  the 
prisoners  were  regaled  with  one  and  t'other — I  mean 
the  cheese  and  porter — qualified  with  two  dollars'  worth 
of  Bread.  They  have  sent  away  a  ship  loaded  with 
Malt  to-day.     Nobody  wQuld  either  buy  or  store  it. 

"  Mr.  Neave  and  I  are  upon  the  point  of  with- 
drawing ourselves  from  this  busy  Scene,  and  retiring 
for  a  few  weeks  into  the  Woods.  We  shall  quarter 
ourselves  upon  your  Cousin  Tubby  in  the  course  of  our 
Peregrination.     You    shall    hear   by  and   by  how  he 


io8  XTbe  francts  Xetters  [1769 

lives,  and  I  am  of  opinion  that  we  shall  eat  our 
Meat  with  little  sauce  but  Hunger.  I  shall  write 
you  again  before  we  set  out,  and  for  the  present 
must  take  my  leave.     So  farewell  at  once. 

"Yours  ever, 

"  A.  Mackrabie. 

"  We  are  all  panting  with  Heat,  the  Glass  from  92° 
to  95° — and  yet  the  mad  People  will  marry  in  spite  of 
it.  I  sleep  upon  the  Floor  for  Coolness,  and  almost 
perish  under  the  weight  of  a  single  Sheet." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"  12/A  December,  1769. 

"  My  dear  Friend, 

"  The  only  Point  of  Appearance  in  which 
Maryland  differs  from  this  Province  is,  that  there  they 
have  not  any  large  Towns.  The  Rivers,  and  their 
navigable  Branches,  are  so  numerous,  that  the  Gentle- 
men of  that  Country  live  generally  upon  their  own 
Plantations,  and  keep  Negroes  to  cultivate  Tobacco 
and  other  produce.  .  .  . 

"  They  are  of  late  years  getting  more  into  the 
Cultivation  of  Wheat.  What  do  you  think  of  one 
Person  having  more  than  800  Acres  in  Wheat, 
and  as  much  more  in  Indian  Corn,  and  half  that 
quantity  besides  in  Tobacco  ?  This  is  at  15  Bushels 
per  Acre,  and  5s.  per  Bushel  makes  no  contemptible 
Income.  Let  me  tell  you,  old  Friend,  a  good 
American  Farm  is  a  very  good  thing.  Were  it  not 
that  the  expensive  hospitable  manner  in  which 
everybody   lives  here  (for   you   may  really  go  from 


1769]  Ube  francis  Xetters  109 

house  to  house  for  a  month,  living  upon  Delicatesses, 
and  drinking  Claret  you  would  not  despise  at  the 
first  Tavern  in  London) ;  and  that  their  number  of 
Negroes  and  Equipage  serves  as  a  weighty  Counter- 
balance, they  would  grow  immensely  rich  ;  too  rich, 
mon  ami,  for  your  system  of  American  Politics. 
Nothing  that  I  met  with  in  Maryland  surprised  me 
so  much  as  to  see  the  Regularity  and  Exactness 
with  which  their  Inspecting  Houses,  or  Public 
Repositories  for  Tobacco,  are  conducted,  both  to 
prevent  Frauds  in  ascertaining  the  Duties,  and  also 
for  the  convenience  of  Individuals  ;  not  even  a  single 
stalk  of  the  poorest  Planter,  but  he  is  accounted 
with  for,  and  can  transfer  as  his  Property,  even  at  a 
hundred  Miles  distance.  I  was  no  less  amazed  to  hear 
that  in  a  late  year,  when  the  produce  of  the  Tobacco 
Colonies  was  about  80,000  hogsheads,  not  less  than 
38,000  were  the  property  of  the  merchants  in 
Scotland  !     I  had  no  Idea  of  such  a  proportion. 

"  Pray  what  do  you  think  of  Paoli  ?     Cest  un  galant 
homme.     We  annex  extraordinary  Ideas  to  the  Appear- 
ance of  Heroes,  as  if  they  were  not  like  other  People. 
"  Adieu,  my  dearest  brother. 

"  I  am,  with  truest  affection,  ever  yours, 

"A.  Mackrabie." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
-  _  _,  January  2nd,  1770. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  Your  cousin  Tub  is  in  his  Flannels  again. 
He  has  had  a  severe  Bout  this  time — ever  since  the 


I  to  XCbe  francts  Xettcrs  [177° 

date  of  my  last  letter.  He  dined  with  me  that  day, 
and  has  not  been  out  since.  I  am  just  come  from 
his  Bed-side,  where,  though  he  could  not  reach  out  a 
Finger  to  me,  he  assures  me  that  he  has  had  a  signum 
salutis  which  ensures  his  speedy  Recovery.  We  had 
a  deal  of  Chat  about  old  England  and  your  Worship. 
He  is  actually  in  Treaty  for  two  Tracts  for  you  and 
I  think  he  will  make  you  an  American  landholder  as 
soon  as  he  gets  about  again.  It  shall  go  hard  but 
I  will  buy  Ten  Guineas'  worth  of  Terra  firma  before 
I  leave  this  Continent.  It  will  be  as  extensive  as 
some  German  principality  or  Scots  Laird's  Estate. 

**  I  know  little  of  your  political  Contests  at  home, 
but  I  will  whisper  to  you  that  our  Americans  with 
their  Resolutions  have  overshot  the  Mark.  They 
perhaps  find  that  the  very  steps  on  which  they 
founded  their  hopes  and  expectations  of  Redress  may 
prove  the  very  means  of  defeating  it.  In  short,  I 
don't  know  what  they  must  do,  if  this  Session  of 
Parliament  should  not  afford  them  Relief.  The  Stores 
are  empty ;  those  Persons  who  have  Goods  lately 
imported,  and  in  the  Possession  of  the  Committees, 
are  discontented,  and  will  soon  grow  clamorous. 
Rogues  are  making  their  advantage,  and  the  Quakers 
grow  cold  and  plead  Conscience.  Here  are  few 
Manufactures  to  supply  the  deficiency  of  Goods  from 
Europe.  None  of  Consequence  can  speedily  be 
established,  and  at  the  same  time  here  is  a  People 
daily  increasing.  You  will  read  what  they  are  about 
at  New  York — their  meetings  and  the  subject  of  it. 
It  should  seem  that  the  spirit  which  was  lately  lulled 
into  silent  Expectation,  is  about  to  Flame  forth  again. 


i77o]  Zbc  jfrancis  Xetters  m 

What  can  be  the  Cause  of  it  ?  Here  is  weather  to 
freeze  the  blood  of  Tigers.  Love  or  Wine  can  hardly 
warm  me. 

"  How  can  it  be  that  the  longer  I  reside  in  this 
Climate  I  am  the  more  affected  by  its  Severities  ? 
The  intense  Heat  of  last  summer  overpowered  me, 
and  the  Cold  we  have  already  this  winter  seems  to 
exceed  all  Recollection  or  Idea,  as  well  as  it  does  all 
Endurance.  I  had  almost  spoiled  my  letter  with  a 
lump  of  black  Ice,  which  hung  from  my  Pen  just  no  . 
I  am  going  to  attend  an  Electrical  lecture.  We'll  try 
if  that  Spark  can  touch  me,  and  if  it  does  I  will 
dance  it  to  a  Blaze  at  the  Assembly  at  night. 
"  I  am,  most  truly  yours, 

"A.  Mackrabie." 
Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  War  Office, 
February  "jth,  1770. 

"  I  was  just  going  to  seal  this  letter,  when  I  re- 
ceived yours  of  the  2nd  of  January.  A  thousand 
thanks  to  my  poor  Cousin,  and  all  my  good  wishes. 
Tell  him  if  he  will  send  an  exact  description  of  the 
Lands,  I  believe  I  could  get  the  Grant  for  nothing. 
I  depend  upon  his  skill  in  the  choice.  It  is  really 
impossible  to  say  any  more. 

"  Don't  let  it  be  confined  to  a  Thousand  Acres  if 
more  good  land  can  be  had." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
loth  March,  1770. 

" .  .  .  Have  you  repealed  our  Acts  yet  ?  I 
wish  you  had,  for  we  want  Goods  most  confoundedly. 


112  XTbc  francts  Xctters  [177° 

I  would  give  all  the  ready  Money  I  am  worth  to  be 
here  with  a  noble  Cargo  in  the  first  Vessel  that 
arrives  after  the  Repeal.  It  is  an  Age  since  we  had 
any  Politics.  This  is  too  cold  a  Season  for  any  bold 
Stroke  on  this  side  the  Water.  They  have  only  a 
Captain  Macdougall  prisoner  at  New  York  for 
libellous  Productions.  He  is  to  take  his  Trial  in 
about  a  Month.  The  Booksellers  are  publishing 
copies  of  the  Trial  of  one  Zenger  at  New  York 
many  years  ago  for  much  such  another  Afifair  ;  on 
which  Occasion  the  Father  of  Governor  Hamilton 
gained  amazing  Honour  by  his  Pleadings  in  Defence 
of  the  Liberty  of  the  Press.  But  Junius  is  the 
Mars  of  Malcontents.  His  Letter  to  the  King  is 
past  all  Endurance,  as  well  as  all  Compare.  The 
Americans  are  under  small  Obligations  to  him  for 
his  Representation  of  them.  I  will  do  them  more 
Justice  than  he  does  by  declaring  that  his  Production 
is  not  very  favourably  received  among  them.  Who 
the  Devil  can  he  be  ?  Sir  William  Draper  is  arrived  in 
South  Carolina.  I  have  read  all  that  correspondence 
and  never  before  met  with  such  keen  cutting  Satire." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadexphia, 
"  24/A  April,  1770. 

"  My  dearest  Brother, 

"  The  ministerial  Confusions  at  home  afford 
but  an  indifferent  Prospect  to  America  of  their  so 
wished  for  Repeal.  In  the  meantime  they  are  lessen- 
ing their  heavy  debt  by  an  Export  of  Grain  that  would 
amaze  you.  Not  a  Ship  in  the  Port  unengaged,  and 
even  new  ones  upon  the  Stocks  contracted  for  upon 


i77o]  ^be  3f rancls  Xetterg  113 

Freight  before  they  are  launched.  Their  constant 
draughts  upon  England  have  lowered  Exchange  near 
25  per  cent,  since  I  have  been  here.  That  difference, 
my  Friend,  is  confoundedly  against  your  humble 
servant,  who  receives  his  Stipend  in  Sterling ;  so  it 
will  be  against  you  in  your  Purchase  of  Land. 

"  Would  you  think  that  in  a  City  with  above  twenty 
thousand  Inhabitants  we  should  find  difficulty  in 
collecting  twenty  native  Englishmen  to  celebrate 
St.  George's  Day  yesterday  ?  And  in  that  Number 
there  were  some  I  had  never  spoken  to  before.  We 
should  have  had  the  Governor  at  our  head,  but  that 
the  Party  was  only  proposed  two  days  before.  How- 
ever, we  met  at  a  Tavern,  stuffed  roast  Beef  and  Plumb 
Pudding,  and  got  drunk,  pour  Vhonneur  de  St.  George  ; 
wore  Crosses,  and  finished  the  evening  at  the  Play- 
House,  where  we  made  the  People  all  Chorus  '  God 
save  the  King,'  and  *  Rule  Britannia,'  and  '  Britons 
strike  Home,'  &c.,  and  such  like  Nonsense  ;  and,  in 
short,  conducted  ourselves  with  all  the  Decency  and 
Confusion  usual  on  such  Occasions.  My  head  aches 
plaguily  !  so  pray  excuse  me  till  the  next  pacquet. 
Adieu  !     In  a  fortnight  you  shall  hear  again  from 

"  Your  ever  faithful 

"A.  Mackrabie." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"  4/A  May,  1770. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  My   Friend  and  your  Cousin  the  Colonel 
has  given  me  the  enclosed  letter  to  forward. 

8 


"4  tCbc  jfrancis  Xetters  [177° 

"  Tubby  is  a  great  Speculator  and  as  enterprising 
as  speculative.  He  tells  me  he  has  hinted  some  of 
his  Objects  to  you.  I  wish  we  could  realise  some 
of  his  projects.  .   .  . 

"  We  have  just  now  a  report,  by  way  of  Lisbon  of 
a  repeal  of  part  of  the  Revenue  Act,  the  Tea  only 
excepted.  If  it  should  prove  true,  I  shall  regret 
that  our  Ministry  were  not  generous  enough  to 
recommend  an  absolute  and  complete  Repeal ;  tho' 
it  were  even  at  the  Expense  of  the  East  India 
Company.     I  don't  like  reconciliations  by  halves. 

"  Our  Gentry  here  don't  seem  to  expect  that  Goods 
will  be  shipped  in  the  Case  as  reported  to  us ;  tho' 
it  is  well  known  they  are  in  the  greatest  want  of 
supply.  I  am  now  convinced  that  'tis  no  easy  matter 
to  establish  Manufactures  in  America ;  nor  have  I 
observed  a  single  step  towards  an  Attempt  either  in 
Linnens,  woollens,  or  silk,  except  stockings.  A  Scheme 
is  proposed  here  for  the  Culture  of  Silk,  in  conse- 
quence of  your  offered  Bounty  at  home,  and  it  is  well 
supported.  Near  a  Thousand  Pounds  has  been  sub- 
scribed in  a  few  days,  and  more  could,  I  doubt, 
be  easily  raised.  The  People  of  this  City  are  far 
beyond  the  Inhabitants  of  any  other  part  of  the 
Continent  in  public  spirit ;  I  mean  in  that  proper 
useful  spirit  of  Improvement — Moderate  in  Politics. 
I  may  be  deceived,  but  I  look  to  ^^ts  as  my  Field 
of  Action. 

'*  Adieu,  my  dearest  friend  !     You  have  my  sincerest 

regards. 

"  Yours  ever, 

"  A.  Mackrabie." 


i77o]  XTbe  ifrancis  Xetters  115 

TuRBUTT   Francis,    the   Colonel   spoken   of   by 
Alexander  Mackrabie,  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"^h  May,  1770. 

"  My  dear  Cousin, 

' '  The  night  before  last  I  returned  from  the 
Country,  with  your  survey  of  one  Thousand  Acres  or 
thereabouts.  I  make  no  doubt  but  from  my  long 
Silence  you  concluded  I  had  entirely  forgot  you,  but 
I  should  have  blushed  even  at  this  distance  if  I  had 
wrote  these  six  pacquets  past,  that  I  would  get  the 
Land,  at  the  same  time  not  able  to  give  you  any 
Certainty  of  it.  I  determined  not  to  give  one  line 
until  I  either  got  the  matter  or  gave  it  over.  I  now 
have  it,  and  so  in  a  few  months  will  you  ;  your  Patent 
under  Mr.  Penn  and  a  Draught  of  the  Land,  which 
is  as  good  (as  the  saying  is)  as  ever  a  crow  flew  over  ; 
so  much  for  that — no,  one  thing  more,  it  will  cost 
you  one  hundred  and  twenty  five  or  thirty  Guineas. 

"  I  have  a  plan  which,  with  your  Assistance  and 
some  of  your  friends  over  the  water,  will  in  all  prob- 
ability hand  the  name  of  Francis  to  the  future  World 
with  Dignity  and  Property  :  it's  no  less  than  a  part 
of  a  Province,  which  I  have  reason  to  believe  might 
be  bought  of  the  Indians  for  two  or  three,  at  most, 
thousand  guineas,  provided  we  could  obtain  the 
Crown's  Right  to  make  a  fair  Purchase ;  it's  a  matter 
worth  Attention,  and  I  make  no  doubt  you  have  as 
much  anxiety  for  the  future  Rank  of  your  Children 
as  any  fond  Father  can  have ;  the  Purchase  will  be 
very  extensive,  and  a  prodigious  fine  Country.  If 
you  can  get  Lewis  Evans'  map  of  the  Colonies,  find 


ii6  XTbe  Francis  Xetters  [1770 

out  Fort  Pitt,  then  go  down  the  Ohio  on  the  west 
side   until   you   come   to   a   river   emptying  into  the 
Ohio,  you  will  find  its  name  to  be  Scioto,  and  higher 
up   the   same   river   you  will    find   Lower   Shawanee 
Town,      The  beginning  of  this   purchase  will  be  at 
the  mouth   of  the   Scioto  river,  and  down  the  Ohio 
until    you    come    to    the    Wabash,    which    you    will 
find  on  the  west  side  of  the  Ohio,  bounded  by  the 
Wabash  on  the  south,  on  the  Ohio  by  the  east,  and 
Scioto  on  the  north,  and  our  western   line    must   be 
run.     Now  if  you  take  in  two  or  three  of  the  right 
sort  of  men  who  will  obtain  the  Royal  Grant,  and  who 
will  also  advance  some  Money  to  make  the   Essay, 
which  may  require  about  two  hundred  guineas,  there 
is  two  of  us  here  who  will  go  to  that  Country,  and 
see  what  can  be  done ;  there  is  but  one  Gentleman 
who  will  go  with  me,  that  I  am  desirous  to  be  con- 
cerned in  this  Country,  and  the  thing  cannot  well  be 
done  without  him :    so  do  you   take   in   as   many  as 
you  think  necessary  to  carry  on  the  Plan,  and  those 
that  will  carry  it  into  immediate  Execution,  do  think 
seriously   of  it,  and   let   me  know  your   Sentiments, 
and  who  you  intend  to  take  in,  by  the  next  pacquet. 
If  you   can   obtain   for  us  too  the  carrying  place  of 
Niagara  with  the  lands  joining   it,  and   a   grant   of 
the  Salt  Lake,  and  the  Land  for  one  Mile  around  it 
in   the   Onondago  country,   it   will  be  a  great  thing. 
You  may  push  that  matter  yourself,  and  the  sooner 
the  better,  but  be  as  silent  as  the  Grave  with  every 
man,  but  these  with  whom   your   business    lays,   for 
the  value  of  those  two  Places  are  so  well  known  by 
every    man    who   has   been    in    America,    that    envy 


i77o]  Ube  jfrancls  Xctters  ny 

would  start  up  and  perhaps  overset  you.  By  all 
means  if  you  can,  get  absolute  Grants,  not  an  Order 
to  the  Governour  of  New  York,  in  whose  Province 
those  two  last  Places  lay. 

"  I  have  not  heard  anything  lately  about  my  joining 
the  Regiment.  I  wish  you  could  lay  the  matter  out, 
so  as  to  get  me  a  Company  in  any  Regiment.  You 
certainly  have  Opportunities  of  obtaining  a  favor 
of  that  kind.  I  could  then  either  join  the  Regiment 
or  go  out  upon'  half  pay,  my  rank  would  be  going 
on,  and  in  case  of  War,  if  I  was  not  better  fixed, 
might  go  into  the  Army  with  greater  Advantage  to 
what  I  can  as  lieutenant.  Do  think  of  me,  tho' 
three  thousand  Miles  from  you.  Mc.  just  this 
moment  left  me,  he  is  going  out  of  town. 

"  Remember  me  to  Mrs.   Francis,  and  believe  me 
to  be  affectionately  yours, 

•'  TuRBUTT  Francis." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
•'9M  June,  1770. 

"  I  wish  you  would  all  be  quiet  at  home,  and  be 
as  unanimous  as  we  are  this  side  the  Water.  Could 
you  but  be  present  at  one  of  our  Meetings  here — 
such  Speechifying  !  But  the  Joke  is,  that  the  Re- 
solutions of  non-importation  are  supposed  to  be  the 
Resolutions  of  the  Merchants  who  usually  vend  Dry 
Goods,  and  are  in  Number  not  exceeding  two  hundred, 
and  at  least  five  times  that  Number  of  different  Persons 
have  appeared  and  given  their  Voices  at  their  several 
Meetings.     Indeed  their  chief  speakers  at  almost  all 


II 8  Zbc  If  rands  Xctters  [1770 

their  Meetings  are  people  who  have  no  more  Concern 
in  Dry  Goods  than  I  have  with  Astronomy.  If  these 
things  must  be,  the  patriotic  Public  should  indemnify 
all  the  little  Shopkeepers,  many  of  whom  live  upon 
the  Profits  of  their  petty  returns  from  month  to  month. 
But  the  spirit  of  Liberty  breathes  on  every  Act  and 
on  every  Occasion.  Our  Play-bills  promise  to  exhibit 
to  us  the  Noble  Struggles  for  liberty  of  those  renowned 
Romans,  Brutus  and  Cassius,  tho'  poor  Cassius  was 
so  deficient  in  his  Latin  as  to  call  Publius  Puppy-lies, 
throughout  the  whole  Piece.  A  gallant  Mechanic, 
whose  Shop  was  broken  open  lately,  could  not  ad- 
vertise a  Reward  for  apprehending  the  Thief,  without 
pathetically  lamenting  how  hard  it  was  for  a  Man  to 
part  with  his  Property  without  his  Consent.  If  the 
Delinquent  should  be  caught,  and  prove  an  English- 
man, he  will  be  hanged  without  Benefit  of  Clergy. 

"  I  long  to  make  one  of  your  Parties  with  Dick 
Tilghman,  Fitz,  and  so  forth,  but  the  Devil  take 
politics!  I'll  never  debate  with  either  you  or  Dick, 
You  have  both  too  much  to  say.  I  hold  my  tongue 
here,  and  the  people  think  me  knowing — but  Snug. 

"A.  M." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"  loth  June,  1770. 

"  The  New  York  Merchants  have  now  a  Majority 
for  Importation  after  the  ist  of  December  next.  Some 
amongst  ours  begin  to  waver.  How  fickle  a  Gale  the 
Public  Voice  is  ! 

'•  I    believe  I   have  never  told    you   that  we  have 


i77o]  tTbe  iFrancls  Xetters  119 

got  Whitfield  among  us.  He  preaches  like  a  Dragon, 
curses  and  blesses  us  all  in  a  Breath,  and  tells  us 
he  hopes  to  die  in  the  Pulpit.  He  abuses  the  Players, 
who  in  turn  advertised  to  perform  '  the  Minor.'  The 
Parsons  petitioned  the  Governor  against  it,  and  the 
Performance  was  dropt.  Squintum  took  this  as  a 
Compromise,  and  the  next  Sunday  recommended  a 
Subscription  for  the  Players. 

"  Yours,  ever  with  the  truest  affection, 

"A.  Mackrabie." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  Margate, 
"July  isf,  1770. 

•*  My  dear  Mac, 

"  I  arrived  at  this  enchanting  Place  to  pay 
a  visit  to  my  Wife  and  daughter  Bess,  who  have  been 
bathing  in  the  Ocean  about  a  fortnight.  I  assure  you 
this  Town  is  wonderfully  improved  since  we  saw  it 
about  five  years  ago :  a  fine  Assembly  room,  a  good 
Tavern,  a  Coffee  house,  and  a  Billiard  table,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  Church,  which,  I  observe  has  been 
repaired  and  beautified.  Yet  after  all,  I  doubt 
whether  there  be  a  more  detestable  Spot  in  any  part 
of  the  inhabitable  Globe.  I  have  got  a  letter  from 
our  honest  Cousin  Turbutt,  which  it  is  absolutely  im- 
possible for  me  to  answer  by  this  packet,  unless  it 
should  happen  to  be  detained  a  fortnight  beyond  its 
usual  Time.  Pray  tell  him  so,  and  that  I  am  in- 
expressibly obliged  to  him  for  the  trouble  he  has 
taken  about  the  thousand  Acres.  As  to  his  other 
Project,  it  has  not  been  in  my  power  to  consult  any- 
body yet,  nor  indeed,  supposing  it  a  thing  advisable, 


I20  Ube  jf rands  Xetters  [177° 

do  I  know  how  to  set  about  it  :  he  talks  of  a  Tract 
of  Country,  which  upon  the  map  appears  equal  to  at 
least  a  third  of  Ireland,  and  he  supposes  that   I  have 
nothing   to   do  but   to   ask  and  have.     I    wish    that 
either   he   or   you  had  been   more   particular.      One 
thing    I    wish   you    to    tell    him    directly — viz.    that 
instead   of  having   a   great   deal   of   Interest,  as   he 
seems  to  take  for  granted,  I  have  really  none  at  all. 
However,  the  Land  will  not  run    away,  and  I  must 
have  time  to  make  proper  Inquiries,     By  next  packet, 
I  shall  answer  him  fully.     Between  ourselves,  is  this 
youth  considered  a  visionary  Projector  in  the  country, 
or  have  they  any  reasonable  opinion  of  his  Discretion  ? 
I  should  also  be  glad  to  know  what  benefit  I  am  to 
derive    from    my   thousand   Acres.     You,   I  presume, 
have   not   lived  so  long   in  the  land  market  without 
making  yourself  a  Freeholder,  and  laying  down  some 
plan   for   a  future    Estate.     You   give  me   a  hint  of 
your  returning  this  Summer,  and  I  have  kept  it  care- 
fully   to  myself.     How   glad  we  shall  be  to  see  you 
is  more  than  I  can  conveniently  put  upon  paper  ;  for 
my  time  is  short,  and  my  paper  almost   out,  and  so, 
my  dearest  friend,  farewell !     We  have  a  very  agree- 
able Hurricane  here  every  night. 

"  P.  Francis." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Fort  Pitt,' 
"  \^July\  1770. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  All    this   and   much    more   have    we   seen 
in    a   few    days.      We   have   conversed   with    Indian 
^  Now  the  city  of  Pittsburg. 


i77o]  Ube  ifrancis  Xettcrs  121 

Chiefs ;  and  if  our  stomachs  could  have  digested 
Brickdust  and  Bears'-grease  might  have  been  not 
unkindly  received  by  their  Squaws,  by  which  names 
the  ladies  of  the  Copper  Race  are  distinguished.  We 
have  seen  them  dancing,  and  we  have  seen  them 
drunk  ;  we  have  heard  them  talk  and  have  heard 
them  sing ;  and  I  believe  I  have  already  almost 
enough  of  the  Shawanee  language  to  tell  you  in  good 
Indian  the  Names  of  all  these  different  Ceremonies. 
I  have  persuaded  a  Warrior  whom  we  met  on  the 
Allegany  River  to  come  down  to  the  Fort,  for  me 
to  draw  his  Picture  ;  but  an  unlucky  Accident  which 
has  just  happened — namely,  a  White  Man's  having 
taken  the  liberty  to  shoot  an  Indian  for  offering  certain 
Familiarities  to  his  Wife,  and  attempting  to  steal  his 
Horse — has  put  my  Gentleman  out  of  Humour,  and 
disappointed  me  of  my  Copy.  He  was  to  have  put 
on  all  his  war  Trinkets,  and  to  have  been  new  Painted 
on  the  Occasion.  These  Indians  are  the  greatest 
Coxcombs  upon  Earth  !  Their  method  of  cutting  and 
pulling  their  Ears,  and  boring  their  Noses,  is  beyond 
all  conception  ridiculous.  I  have  seen  a  Woman  with 
not  less  than  six  dozen  Brooches  of  silver  upon  a 
Shift  more  dirty  and  ragged  than  was  ever  seen  in 
St.  Giles's  ;  and  a  Warrior  with  his  Ears  slit  into 
Strips  and  Chitterlings,  and  twisted  about  with  more 
silver  Clasps  than  a  Dutch  family  Bible. 

"  You  can  have  no  idea  of  the  delightful  situation 
of  Fort  Pitt.  It  is  built  upon  a  Point  of  land  formed 
by  the  confluence  of  the  two  rivers,  Allegany  and 
Monongahelah,  which  immediately  upon  their  Junction 
have  the  name  of  the   Ohio.     The  Indian  language, 


122  Ube  francls  Xetters  [1770 

which  is  the  most  figurative  in  the  Universe,  is  remark- 
ably characteristic  in  the  titles  of  these  two  rivers. 
They  are  their  Allegro  and  their  Penseroso.  The 
former  clear  and  lively,  flowing  over  a  bright  pebbled 
Bed,  and  transparent  as  Cristal ;  the  Monongahelah 
dull,  dark,  and  heavy,  moving  in  a  sluggish  and 
almost  imperceptible  Course.  The  lofty  Hills  and 
endless  Woods  with  which  they  are  bordered  make 
the  whole  scene  delightfully  romantic.  I  shall  say 
little  of  the  Fort,  because  I  don't  understand  military 
Matters ;  and  besides  that,  I  had  little  time  for 
Observation.  I  am  told  it  will  accommodate  more 
than  a  Regiment,  but  it  has  not  at  present  fifty  men 
who  do  Duty.  We  have  been  most  hospitably  and 
genteely  entertained  by  an  officer  whom  we  knew 
last  winter  in  Philadelphia,  and  allowing  for  the 
Politesse  a  la  Militaire  which  obliges  us  to  compound 
for  being  un  peu  enivr^  at  least  once  a  day,  we  pass 
our  time  very  agreeably.  I  am  as  well  reconciled 
to  the  four  o'clock  Drum  as  if  I  had  lived  all  my 
time  in  a  Camp.  But  our  week  has  just  expired,  and 
we  must  return  to  our  former  Engagements,  and  cross 
the  Allegany  Mountain  once  more.  I  tremble  at  the 
Thought  of  rocks  and  precipices ;  tho'  these  are  gentle 
Sufferings  compared  to  Loghouses  with  earthen  floors 
and  the  intolerable  Suffocation  of  Barksmoke,  which  we 
are  obliged  to  endure  every  Night,  to  avoid  being  flead 
alive  by  Gnats  and  Fleas.  In  point  of  Provision,  this 
Road  in  summer  beggars  all  description.  For  a  hundred 
Miles  we  are  under  the  Necessity  of  carrying  fodder  for 
our  Horses  ;  and  for  our  parts,  I  shall  never  while  I  live 
lose  the  Idea  of  dried  Venison  and  Whiskey  Toddy. 


177°]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  123 

"  I    think   we  cannot  be  absent  from   Philadelphia 
more  than  a  month  longer.     One  of  my  most  pleasing 
Prospects  is  that  upon  my  Return  I  may  hear  of  your 
family  so  dear  to  me.     Adieu,  my  dearest  Philip. 
"  I  am,  most  affectionately  yours, 

"  A.  Mackrabie." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
,    « ,  _.  November  Qth,  1770. 

"  My  dearest  Friend, 

**  I  am  favoured  with  yours  of  the  4th  Sept. 
by  the  pacquet — and  have  read  to  the  Colonel  that 
part  of  it  which  relates  to  him.  I  may  venture  to 
tell  you  that  he  was  very  anxious  to  hear  from  you, 
and  seemed  to  think  your  Silence  unkind.  But  your 
letters  have  composed  him.  He  loves  you  and  of 
Consequence  was  jealous  of  the  least  Appearance 
of  Neglect.  He  has  shewed  me  all  the  Draughts 
and  Papers  relating  to  your  Lands.  I  know  nothing 
of  their  Situation,  but  have  not  a  Doubt  of  their 
good  quality. 

"  I  have  been  introduced  to  our  new  Coz  whom 
before  I  only  knew  by  sight ;  now  that  I  have 
conversed  with  her  I  like  her  very  well.  She  is  a 
sensible  clever  Girl.  Tell  Richard  [Tilghman]  I  say 
so  and  that  I  hope  he  will  not  treat  his  Aunt  with 
the  less  Respect  for  being  only  Eighteen  years  old. 

"  You  will  know  before  this  Time  of  the  resolve 
of  the  Merchants  here  to  import  every  Article 
except  Tea.  .  .  . 

"  Adieu  my  brother, 

"A.  M." 


124  Ubc  jfrancis  Xcttcrs  [1770 

The  new  cousin  mentioned  in  this  letter  was  the 
bride  of  Colonel  Turbutt  Francis.  Richard  Tilgh- 
man,  the  son  of  Turbutt's  sister,  spent  some  years 
in  London  studying  law,  and  became  much  attached 
to  Philip  Francis  and  his  family. 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"London, 
"Fed.  i2th,  1771. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  Your  Father's  letter,  which  I  sent  by  the 
packet,  will,  I  suppose,  contain  a  true  Account  of 
Family  matters.  We  are  well.  Your  Nephew  is,  with- 
out flattery,  a  most  extraordinary  Child.  His  mind 
and  body  seem  to  be  everything  we  could  wish. 

"  Tilghman^  dined  with  me  yesterday,  and  swallowed 
a  moiety  of  two  bottles  of  Claret.  I  shall  not  be  easily 
reconciled  to  his  leaving  old  England.  Tell  his  Father 
and  Mother  very  seriously  that  it  would  be  a  pity  to 
remove  him  so  soon  from  his  Studies — alias  from 
Covent  Garden.  .  .  .  You  cannot  conceive  how  close 
he  applies.  Your  old  friend  Meyrick,  I  hear,  has 
espoused  that  young  Lady  ;  and  does  business  again. 
The  rest  of  your  Acquaintance  are  pretty  much  in 
statu  quo. 

"  We  lead  a  jolly  kind  of  life.  This  night  to  a 
concert — on  Thursday  to  a  ridotto — on  Saturday  the 
opera — and  on  Tuesday  following  a  grand  private  ball 
at  the  London  Tavern.     We  desire  nothing  but  that 

you  were  here  to  partake  with  us.     Adieu ! 

"  P.  Fr." 

*  R.  Tilghman  returned  to  America  in  the  autumn  of  this  year. 


i77i]  ^be  iprancis  Xetters  125 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

•'  War  Office, 
May  1st,  1771. 

"  My  dear  Brother, 

"  I  fear  I  load  you  with  postage  inland,  much 
more  than  my  letters  are  worth  ;  but  this  is  an 
Expense  you  must  submit  to,  as  long  as  you  express 
Satisfaction  in  hearing  from  me.  Long  before  this, 
I  hope,  your  grievances  have  left  you — I  mean  Rheu- 
matism and  Fever.  You  Americans  have  a  wonderful 
turn  to  pains  in  the  Bones.  If  you  have  not  made 
a  thousand  Compliments  to  Tubby  Francis  for  me 
upon  his  change  of  condition,  you  deserve  to  be 
hanged.  I  have  used  that  honest  Fellow  infamously  ; 
but  really,  between  ourselves,  I  cannot  prevail  upon 
myself  to  talk  to  a  man  who  makes  so  light  of  getting 
large  Provinces  into  his  Possession.  For  God's  sake 
take  excellent  care  of  my  land  !  If  I  do  not  mis- 
understand you,  you  mean  that  it  must  take  care  of 
itself,  I  will  either  pay  the  Money  to  your  father  or 
otherwise,  as  you  think  proper.  If  War  had  gone 
on,  something  might  perhaps  have  offered  for  you. 
But  have  courage,  we  shall  not  always  be  at  the 
foot  of  the  Ladder. 

"  A  great  event  has  happened  in  the  history  of 
the  Mackrabies — I  have  taken  a  little  neat  Cottage  at 
Fulham  for  the  summer.  Your  father's  letter  I  dare 
say  will  be  full  of  it.  We  go  on  Saturday.  I  saw  him 
this  morning  amazingly  well.  Your  Nephew  is  a  most 
glorious  Animal,  but  not  very  like  his  Uncle.     Adieu. 

"  Yours, 

"  P.  Francis." 


xa6  zrbe  3franct6  Xetters  [1771 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"War  Office, 
"Sept/^h,  1 77 1. 

"If  you  could  form  such  commercial  Connections 
in  North  America  as  would  enable  you  to  act  upon 
your  own  Account,  I  should  think  it  not  impracticable 
to  raise  a  sum  of  money  for  you  on  this  side,  to 
begin  upon.  Your  Father's  letter,  which  goes  here- 
with, will  naturally  be  filled  with  the  departure  of 
of  our  good  friend  Tilghman.  He  breakfasted  with 
me  for  the  last  time,  Wednesday  the  28th  of  last 
month,  and  was  to  get  into  his  Postchaise  at  four 
o'clock  that  afternoon.  Our  Parting  was  no  other 
than  if  we  were  to  dine  together  the  day  following  ; 
yet  I  shall  probably  never  see  him  again.  I  do  not 
think  that  as  to  the  choice  of  Friends  or  Companions, 
it  is  an  easy  matter  either  to  please  my  Fancy  or  to 
satisfy  my  Judgment.  The  villain  succeeded  in  both 
completely ;  and  now  I  ought  to  hate  him  heartily 
for  giving  me  such  cause  of  regret  as  will  last  as 
long  as  I  live.  He  is  to  write  to  me  constantly, 
but  at  this  Distance  and  with  this  Prospect,  it  will 
be  the  dead  letter,  which  he  has  been  studying  so 
long.  You  are  fortunate  in  waiting  for  his  return 
to  America.  We  are  all  pretty  quiet  here,  but  it 
seems  to  me  rather  an  anxious  pause  or  interval  in 
Contention,  than  the  tranquil  security  of  a  wise  and 
firm  Government.  Tilghman  is  loaded  with  Politics 
and  can  explain  everything  as  well  as  I  can.  I 
begin  now  to  think  that  some  discovery  will  be  made 
about  Portsmouth  fire.  The  Duke  of  Gloucester  is 
gone  to  Lisbon. 


I77I]  XTbe  ifrancis  Xetters  127 

"  Tilghman  will  tell   you  wonders  of  my  children, 
particularly  your  Nephew. 

"  Adieu,  adieu  ! 

"  P.  Francis." 

Philip  Francis  to  Alexander  Mackrabie. 

"  War  Office, 
'*  December  ^h,  1771. 

"  My  dear  Mac, 

"  Go  directly  to  Tilghman,  and  ask  him  what 
news.  Do  you  and  he  ever  meet  privately,  that  is, 
at  a  proper  distance  from  Quakers,  Indians,  and 
mad  Americans  ?  If  you  do,  drink  my  health  very 
cordially.  You  may  let  the  Colonel — alias  broken 
Lieutenant — be  of  the  Party,  but  none  of  the  profane. 
The  Rogue  loves  Claret.  Since  Tilghman  arrived 
among  you,  I  hope  you  found  the  Climate  was  im- 
proved. We  used  to  make  it  out  very  tolerably 
together.  Do  tell  me  a  little  whether  you  are 
determined  to  take  root  in  America,  or  ever  to  be 
transported  Home  again  ?  By  the  time  you  get 
back  you  will  have  a  fine  Crop  of  nephews  and 
nieces.  Little  Philip  is  a  Hero  in  every  sense  of  the 
word.  For  God's  sake  pardon  my  not  writing  any 
more !     I  am  jaded  to  death. 

a  p      p  " 

Richard  Tilghman  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Philadelphia, 
"Nov.  loth,  1 77 1. 

"  Dear  Francis, 

"  About  a  month  ago  I  arrived  at  this  place. 
The  Governor  came  Passenger  in  the  Ship  with  Me, 


128  Zbc  fvancis  Xetters  [1771 

and  the  good  People  here  have  been  constantly 
making  Feasts  for  him  and  his  Friends,  among  whom 
I  have  the  Honour  to  rank  myself.  You  will  suppose 
I  have  been  very  happy.  I  expected  to  be  so — but 
in  Truth,  I  have  been  disappointed.  The  Dissi- 
pations of  this  Country  do  not  agree  with  me.  Eating 
and  Drinking  you  know  I  love ;  and  yet,  believe  Me, 
I  should  be  happier  in  fasting,  than  feasting.  The 
Pleasures  of  the  Table  are  but  of  an  inferior  Kind. 
I  never  valued  them  but  as  preparatory  to  greater 
Joys  ; — Joys  which  this  Country  does  not  afford.  .  .  . 

"  I  am  yet  intirely  unsettled.  In  a  Week  or  two 
I  shall  go  in  search  of  some  Spot  to  pitch  my  Tent 
upon.  When  I  have  found  a  Place  to  my  Mind,  I 
will  set  myself  seriously  down  to  Business.  England 
I  certainly  have  taken  my  Leave  of  for  many  Years. 
Indeed  the  Chances  are  against  my  ever  seeing  it 
again.  The  Thought  of  endless  Banishment  makes 
me  miserable  ;  insomuch  that,  if  I  did  not  think  it 
would  be  a  Sin  to  forget  the  Favours  I  have  re- 
ceived from  you  and  Mrs.  Francis,  I  should  wish 
more  heartily  for  a  Cup  of  good  Lethe,  than  ever  I 
did  for  a  Bottle  of  Burgundy. 

"  The  first  Man  of  my  Acquaintance  I  met  on 
the  Shore  was  our  Friend  Mackrabie.  If  one  may 
judge  from  his  Looks,  he  is  in  perfect  Health.  I 
would  fain  keep  him  here  till  the  Spring,  for  his  own 
Sake  as  well  as  mine  ;  but  he  seems  determined  on 
a  Winter's  Passage.  I  must  not  forget  to  thank  you 
for  introducing  me  to  Argenis.  I  am  quite  in  love 
with  her  ;  and  I  think  the  Romance  of  which  She 
is  the   Heroine,  by  far  the  most  chaste  and  elegant 


177 1  ]  XTbe  If  rands  Xetters  129 

I  ever  met  with.     It  is  in  my  Opinion,  a  very  happy 
Imitation  of  Petronius. 

"  You  have  so  many  Correspondents,  that  I  cannot 
press  you  upon  the  Subject  of  Writing.  When  you 
do  write,  be  not  sparing  of  Politics.  I  beg  to  be 
remembered  by  Mrs.  Francis,  and  the  good  old  Pair, 
her  Father  and  Mother.  My  best  wishes  attend  the 
H  oldens  and  Cornthwaites.  I  could  fill  a  Page  with 
compliments  to  Fitzpatrick,  Godfrey  &c.,  but  I  will 
not  trouble  you. 

"  I  am  most  sincerely  yours, 

"  Richard  Tilghman." 

We  have  no  letter  from  Francis  to  his  brother-in- 
law  in  America  with  a  date  later  than  that  of  the 
last  given,  December  4th,  1771,  in  which  he  asks 
whether  or  not  A.  Mackrabie  intends  to  return  to 
England  ;  but  in  a  letter  to  his  wife  dated  December 
24th,  1 77 1,  he  holds  out  the  hope  that  she  would 
shortly  see  her  brother  again. 

A  few  notes  to  Mrs.  Francis  from  her  husband, 
written  to  her  during  his  absences  from  home  or  her 
own,  may  as  well  be  given  here.  The  three  earliest 
are  of  the  year   1770. 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife,  who  was  then  staying 
AT  Margate. 

"Ju?te  lith,  1770. 

"My  dearest  Betty, 

"Not    having    any    letter    by    the    Post,    I 
flatter  myself  I    shall   receive  one  from  you  to-night 

9 


130  Xlbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1770 

by  William.  I  saw  the  children  this  morning  (at 
Fulham).  Sally  has  had  the  toothache  violently,  but 
by  the  help  of  a  Poultice  she  slept  well  last  night, 
and  is  free  from  pain  this  day.  Philip  and  the 
other  two  are  as  fierce  as  Lions.  Your  mother  was 
in  Bed.  Patty  has  been  bled ;  her  blood  is  so  bad 
that  Price  says  she  must  be  bled  once  a  week  for 
two  Years  and  some  Months." 

The  Francis  children  frequently  visited  their 
grandparents  at  Fulham.  Philip  Francis  writes  to 
his  wife : — 

*' Tuesday,  \oth  July,  1770. 

"  My  dearest  Betsy, 

"  I  am  just  returned  from  seeing  the  children 
at  Fulham.  It  is  impossible  for  them  to  be  better 
or  happier  than  they  are.  Sally  has  got  rid  of  the 
Toothach.  Harriet  is  in  Words  of  three  Syllables — 
Philip  rules  the  Roast — and  the  size  of  Mary's  face 
will  astonish  you.  She  takes  Notice  of  everything — 
take  care  to  let  me  know  before  you  want  Money, 
and  don't  run  too  close.  Adieu  dearest.  Love  to 
Betsy  &  Miss  Holden." 

Philip  Francis  to  Mrs.  Francis. 

"  Bath, 
"  22,rd  Dec,  lyjo.    Sunday. 

"  My  dearest  Betsy, 

'•  The  Weather  and  Company  I  was  in  must 
have  assured  you  that  I  had  a  most  agreeable  Journey. 
We  arrived  at  Marlborough  at  seven  and  found  our- 
selves eating  an  incomparable  Dinner  in  about  a  quarter 


177°]  Ube  francts  Xetters  131 

of  an  hour.  We  got  into  Bath  at  one  o'clock.  My 
Father  I  think  is  wonderfully  mended  in  health  and 
spirits.  We  all  lodge  together  in  a  very  comfortable, 
I  might  say  an  elegant  house.  Upon  the  whole  it 
promises  to  be  a  very  agreeable  Expedition.  A 
thousand  kisses  to  my  sweet  chickeys,  not  forgetting 
Philip,  Compliments  in  abundance  to  your  father, 
Mother,  and  Patty. 

"  Yours  yours  yours 

"  P.  Francis." 

Philip  Francis  to  Mrs.  Francis  at  Margate. 

"June  19/A,  1 77 1. 

"  My  dearest  Honesty, 

"  I  wish  you  joy  of  your  snug  little  Dwelling. 
William  knows  something  of  Houses,  and  says  it  was 
entirely  to  his  Satisfaction.  I  wrote  to  you  yesterday, 
consequently  have  not  much  to  say  at  present.  It 
rained  bitterly  all  last  night  and  this  morning — drop, 
drop,  drop  into  my  room  last  night.  I  wakened  with 
the  noise,  and  took  it  for  Thunder.  We  are  all  at 
sea.  If  it  holds  up,  I  shall  ride  to  Fulham  this 
afternoon.  I  shall  pay  you  a  visit  at  Margate  as  soon 
as  Lord  Harrington  goes  out  of  Town." 

To  Mrs.  Francis  from  her  Husband,  when  he  was 
ON  A  Tour  in  the  Country. 

"  Manchester, 
"  Saturday  Morning,  August  a^h,  177 1. 

"This  is  just  to  inform  you  that  we  arrived  here 
yesterday  about  4.  After  dinner  with  much  Toil  we 
found  out  Mr.  Clough's,  where  we  all  supped,  and  I 
lay  in  the  State  Bed.     By  the  same  token  I  am  now 


132  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1771 

writing  in  his  best  Parlour.  Oh  !  I  wrote  to  you  from 
Derby.  We  have  been  all  through  that  County,  and 
have  travelled  over  a  thousand  mountains,  to  say 
nothing  of  caverns  and  precipices.  But  to  say  the 
truth  everything  has  contributed  to  make  it  a  pleasant 
Journey.  These  good  folks  received  me  as  the  Jews 
intend  to  do  the  Messiah.  To-morrow  we  set  out  on 
our  return.  Old  mother  Clough  is  as  blind  as  a  Horse 
in  a  Mill,  and  has  a  hand  like  a  Curry-comb.  .  .  .  And 
so  deary,  adieu !  Kiss  the  Children  heartily,  and 
place  it  to  account  as  per  advice. 

"  Yours, 

"  P.  Francis." 

Philip  Francis  to  Mrs.  Francis. 

"  Bath, 
'^^  December  lifh,  1771. 

*'  My  dearest  Betsy, 

"It  is  not  that  I  have  anything  to  add  to 
my  letter  of  Yesterday,  but  a  letter  is  comfort  to  you, 
and  I  am  afraid  you  want  it.  My  father  was  well 
enough  this  morning  to  go  abroad  in  a  Chaise.  But 
he  relapses  frequently,  and  is  truly  in  a  deplorable 
Condition.  He  is  hardly  sensible  of  my  being  here  ; 
and  if  I  did  not  live  cheap,  and  did  not  expect 
Mr.  Godfrey  I  would  return  many  days  sooner  than  I 
intended.  I  have  dined  but  once  at  a  Tavern,  and 
have  never  supped  out.  I  am  very  uneasy  about  the 
dear  Children,  and  much  more  so  about  you.  It  is 
hard  that  you  should  have  so  unpleasant  a  Christmas  ; 
but  have  a  good  heart,  and  I'll  take  care  you  shall 
have  a  merry  New  Year.  I  flatter  myself  your  Brother 
will  be  in  London  in  a  fortnight.     I   was  invited  to 


i77i]  Ubc  francis  Xettcrs  133 

dine  to-day  with  a  riotous  Party,  but  did  not  like  it,  so 
dine  at  home  alone  ;  and  Mrs.  Walsh  has  sent  me  a 
ticket  for  a  Concert :  so  I  take  my  music  and  my 
nourishment  gratis.  I  am  very  impatient  to  hear 
what  Lord  Harrington  has  determined  about  the  War 
Office.  I  neither  expect  nor  desire  any  alteration  in 
my  own  Situation.  Very  likely  Mr.  Bradshaw  may 
succeed.  I  am  afraid  my  poor  friend  Walsh  is  very  un- 
happy. She  has  represented  their  melancholy  state  to 
me  with  Tears,  and  would  gladly  retire  to  any  Farm 
to  avoid  Bath.  But  this  is  impossible.  I  have  just 
swallowed  an  excellent  Fowl  and  roast  Chine,  and  now 
drink  your  Health,  and  all  that's  dear  to  us  at  Fulham. 
"  And  so.  Honesty,  adieu  ! 

n  p       p   " 

In  January,  1772,  Mr.  Francis  writes  to  his  cousin 
Major  Baggs  ^  : — 

"War  Office. 

"You  will  have  heard  that  Mr.  D'Oyly  has 
resigned  his  Employment.  He  did  it  while  I  was  at 
Bath.  Immediately  on  my  return  my  Lord  Barrington 
was  so  good  as  to  make  me  the  Offer  with  many 
obliging  and  friendly  Expressions.  I  had,  however, 
solid  Reasons  for  declining  the  Offer.  .  .  .  All  this 
I  should  be  glad  you  should  communicate  to  anybody 
that  is  willing  to  hear  it.  ...  I  have  Schemes  floating  in 
my  mind  about  a  certain  6  months'  voyage.     Farewell. 

"  P.  F." 

'  Major  Baggs  was  the  son  of  Mary  Francis,  sister  of  Dr.  Francis. 
She  had  another  son,  Stephen,  who  became  Vicar  of  Kilmacahee, 
in  Ireland. 


134  XCbc  francis  Xetters  [1772 

Mr.  Francis  sent  in  his  own  resignation  shortly 
after  the  retirement  of  his  friend.  From  the  War 
Office  he  writes  again  to  the  Major  on  March  20th, 
1772:— 

"  Dear  Phil, 

"  The  formal  letter  you  have  just  read  is, 
I  hope,  the  last  you  will  receive  from  me  in  that  Stile.^ 
At  the  end  of  this  Quarter  I  leave  the  War  Office. 
It  is  my  own  Act.  Be  not  alarmed  for  me.  Every- 
thing is  secure  and  as  it  should  be.  I  wait  your 
answers  to  my  last  letters,  in  order  to  settle  that 
Business.  You  may  still  direct  to  me  under  Lord 
B.'s  cover,  but  not  any  other  letter  but  for  me. 

"  Adieu. 

"  P.  F. 
"  P.S. — I  am  hurried  and  agitated  to  death." 

^  This  was  an  official  letter  to  the  Major  written  from  the  War 
Office. 


PERIOD     11. 

1772— 1774. 

This  is  an  intermittent  period  in  Francis's  life.  A  year  after  he 
left  the  War  Office,  his  appointment  as  Member  of  the  Indian  Council 
was  announced.  The  correspondence  of  the  father  and  son  ceases  in 
1773  with  the  death  of  tJie  former.  Francis  travels  abroad,  and  we 
have  letters  which  he  wrote  to  friends  from  Italy.  His  acquaintance 
with  the  Clive  family  begins  at  this  date.  Alexander  Mackrabie 
accompanied  Francis  to  India  as  his  Private  Secretary,  and  we  have 
the  Diary  which  he  kept  on  his  voyage  out,  and  at  the  same  time  the 
earlier  pages  of  the  Journal  which  Mrs.  Francis  kept  during  her 
husband^s  absence  from  England.  Francis  and  Mackrabie  arrived  at 
Calcutta^  October  i()th,  177^. 


PERIOD    II, 
1772—1774. 

After  leaving  the  War  Office  in  the  spring  of  1772, 
Francis  made  a  long  tour  in  Europe  in  the  company 
of  one  of  his  friends,  Mr.  David  Godfrey.  The 
travellers  visited  several  towns  on  the  Continent,  and 
spent  a  long  time  in  Italy,  but  no  letters  to  family  or 
friends  have  been  kept,  either  written  or  received  by 
Francis  during  this  time,  excepting  the  following  letter 
to  Dr.  Campbell  written  from  Rome.  Dr.  Campbell 
was  a  literary  man  and  a  friend. 

From  Philip  Francis  to  Dr.  Campbell.^ 

"  Rome, 
"  October  17  th,  1772. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

"  At  last  I  have  an  Opportunity  of  keeping 
the  Promise  you  were  so  kind  as  to  exact  from  me, 
when  I  left  England.  I  have  not  been  unmindful  of 
my  Engagement,  but  I  wished  to  perform  it  a  little 
more  to  your  Satisfaction,  than  by  a  detail  of  the 
ordinary  occurrences  of  a  Journey,  or  the  common 
observations  of  Travellers.  You  are  not  to  be  enter- 
tained with  the  rattling  of  French  roads,  the  Famine  of 
^  Author  of  "  Political  Survey  of  Great  Britain  "  (1774). 


138  Ube  ifrancis  Xettecs  [1772 

an  Italian  inn,  or  the  Velocity  of  Postilions  within  a 
given  time.  As  for  pictures  and  statues,  I  have  really 
seen  so  many  that  I  remember  nothing.  In  a  very 
large  mixed  Company,  one  seldom  contracts  a  lasting 
Acquaintance.  Neither  would  my  advice  be  of  much 
use  to  you,  for  I  fancy  at  present  you  have  no  thoughts 
of  travelling.  But,  my  good  and  worthy  Friend,  I  have 
the  pleasure  of  thinking  that  I  can  meet  you  upon 
your  own  ground,  upon  your  favourite  Topic,  a  great 
and  good  Prince  who  does  honour  to  a  Throne.  I 
know  to  whom  this  glorious  character  most  eminently 
belongs.  Yet,  trust  me,  there  are  princely  virtues  on 
both  sides  the  Alps.  The  present  Roman  Pontiff 
[Clement  XIV.]  is  worthy  of  his  Station.  He  had 
no  family  Connexions,  he  had  no  private  Interest 
nor  foreign  Protection,  and  circumstanced  as  the 
afifairs  of  the  Holy  See  then  were,  it  was  impossible 
for  him  to  have  been  Pope  if  he  had  not  deserved 
it.  Yet  it  is  not  his  personal  Merit  I  admire  so 
much  as  the  ready  concurrence  of  so  many  Rivals 
to  acknowledge  and  reward  it.  The  success  of  his 
administration  he  piously  attributes  to  the  goodness 
of  Providence.  His  modesty  will  not  suffer  him 
to  insist  upon  the  influence  of  second  Causes.  As 
to  matters  of  Religion,  I  would  not  debate  the  point 
with  him.  In  worldly  Affairs,  I  believe  we  may 
afifirm  that  common  men  are  not  usually  the  instru- 
ments of  wise  Councils  or  of  important  Events.  At 
his  Accession  to  the  Pontificate,  he  found  the  affairs 
of  the  Church  in  the  utmost  disorder.  Portugal  totally 
alienated  ;  France  dissatisfied  :  Spain  little  less  than 
hostile;  and  Naples  actually  in  arms  upon  the  Frontier. 


ELIZABETH     MACKRABIE, 

FIRST  WIFE  OF  SIR   PHILIP   FRANCIS. 


Page  137.] 


1772]  Z\)c  ifrancis  Xettcrs  139 

Scarcely  had  he  reigned  a  twelvemonth,  when  every- 
one of  these  untoward  circumstances  was  reversed.  I 
ask  no  other  proof  of  the  wisdom  of  his  Councils.  As 
for  his  personal  Deportment,  I  can  affirm  from  ex- 
perience that  it  corresponds  with  his  public  Character, 
and  contributes  to  adorn  it.  A  great  man  preserves 
his  Dignity,  even  when  he  wishes  to  lay  it  aside,  and 
discovers  the  force  of  his  Abilities  while  he  seems  to 
make  no  use  of  them.  The  Bow  is  unbent,  but  we 
may  judge  how  far  it  carries. 

"  After  seeing  the  Laocoon,  Meleager,  and  Apollo, 
the  next  thing  to  be  seen  was  the  Pope.  We  had 
heard  that  Englishmen  were  well  received  by  him. 
His  Holiness  takes  every  Opportunity  of  honouring 
them  with  the  most  distinguished  marks  of  his 
Regard.  This  condescension  of  course  encourages 
them  to  wait  upon  him  ;  and  even  without  it,  I  think 
it  would  be  absurd  to  see  Rome  and  not  to  visit  the 
head  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  His  Holiness 
being  in  the  Country  it  was  necessary  to  send  before- 
hand, to  know  at  what  time  we  might  be  admitted 
to  his  Presence.  This  part  of  the  Business  was 
arranged  for  us  by  Abb^  Grant,  to  whose  Friendship 
and  Politeness  we  are  much  indebted.  An  answer 
was  quickly  returned,  that  the  Pope  would  be  happy 
to  receive  us  whenever  we  should  do  him  that  honour, 
for  so  he  was  pleased  to  express  himself  The  day 
before  yesterday  we  accordingly  set  out  for  Castello 
Gandolfo,  under  the  Auspices  of  our  friend  the  Abb6. 
The  Master  of  the  Ceremonies  happening  to  be  out 
of  the  way,  we  were  obliged  to  wait  about  twenty 
minutes  in  an  antechamber,  for  which   his   Holiness 


I40  trbe  ifrancls  Xcttcrs  [1772 

condescended  to  make  us  a  multitude  of  Excuses.  The 
moment  he  knew  we  were  arrived,  he  ordered  us  to 
be  admitted,  and  received  us  at  the  Door  of  his  Chamber 
with  an  exclamation  expressive  both  of  satisfaction 
and  goodwill.  I  never  saw  a  more  venerable  nor  a 
more  benevolent  Countenance,  yet  not  unmixed  with 
keenness  and  sagacity.  Instead  of  permitting  us  to 
observe  the  usual  Ceremony  of  kissing  his  Slipper, 
he  insisted  upon  our  sitting  down  by  him  upon  a 
little  Sopha,  a  distinction  of  which  we  are  assured 
there  never  was  an  instance  before.  Our  introducer, 
who  has  been  accustomed  to  see  English  Gentlemen 
well  received,  was  at  least  as  much  astonished  as 
we  were  at  finding  himself  seated  in  the  Pope's 
presence.  In  a  moment  his  Holiness  began  the 
Conversation,  with  the  utmost  Familiarity  and  good 
humour ;  and  as  it  was  my  chance  to  sit  very  close 
to  him,  he  frequently  laid  his  arm  upon  my  shoulder, 
and  always  called  me  caro  mio  figlio.  This,  and  cari 
miei  signori,  was  his  constant  Address  to  us  both. 
But  whatever  he  said  or  did  was  accompanied  with 
an  ease  and  cheerfulness,  that,  without  lessening  the 
reverence  due  to  so  great  a  Person,  banished  all 
restraint.  His  discourse  was  rapid,  and  included  a 
variety  of  Topics  ;  yet  there  was  none  upon  which 
he  seemed  to  dwell  with  greater  pleasure  than  upon 
his  esteem  and  affection  for  the  British  nation.  I 
acknowledged  how  much  we  are  obliged  to  him  for 
this  favourable  Opinion,  but  he  insisted  vehemently 
that  we  were  only  obliged  to  ourselves  ;  that  his 
regard  for  us  was  well  known,  and  that  he  was 
pleased    the   World   should   take    notice   of  it.     He 


1772]  XCbe  iprancis  Xettcrs  141 

informed  us  that  the  Venetians,  having  lately 
doubled  the  Duty  upon  English  salt-fish  imported 
into  Venice  at  second  hand  fi*om  Civita  Vecchia  and 
Ancona,  and  having  found  themselves  disappointed 
in  the  produce  of  that  Duty,  had  accused  him  of 
having  formed  a  commercial  treaty  with  Great  Britain ; 
and  that  his  Nuncio  at  Cologne,  having  asked  leave 
to  visit  England  last  summer,  incognito,  it  had  been 
industriously  reported  that  his  Holiness  had  sent  him 
thither  upon  some  special  Commission.  He  laughed 
heartily  at  these  reports,  and  wished  they  had  been 
better  founded.  He  assured  us  that  if  he  had  been 
Pope  in  the  time  of  Harry  the  Eighth,  he  would 
have  prevented  that  unfortunate  Separation  of  England ; 
that  Clement  the  Seventh  was  a  weak  man,  and  duped 
by  Charles  the  Fifth  ;  and  Wolsey  a  man  of  abilities, 
but  blinded  by  his  Ambition ;  that  the  same  temper 
and  moderation  on  the  part  of  the  Holy  See,  which 
had  lately  recovered  Portugal,  would  probably  have 
preserved  England.  On  his  mentioning  Portugal,  I 
took  the  liberty  of  telling  his  Holiness,  that  I  was 
at  Lisbon  when  Cardinal  Aiaccioli  was  so  disgrace- 
fully dismissed,  and  that  I  had  the  honour  of  being 
known  to  the  Marquis  of  Pombal.  This  Circumstance 
seemed  to  lead  his  Holiness  to  enter  largely  upon  the 
late  Reconciliation  with  that  court.  His  management 
of  it  undoubtedly  does  him  Honour.  It  was  the  first 
measure  of  his  Government,  and  the  success  of  it 
has  fully  answered  the  rectitude  and  piety  of  his 
Intentions.  He  said  that  the  instructions  given  to 
Cardinal  Aiaccioli  were  certainly  injudicious,  and  that 
the  Cardinal's  zeal  in   carrying  them  into  Execution 


142  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1772 

was,  in  his  opinion,  rather  more  to  be  commended 
than  his  Discretion.  That,  upon  his  accession  to  the 
Pontificate,  the  first  object  he  aimed  at  was  to 
reconcile  Portugal  to  the  Holy  See.  That  he  im- 
mediately appointed  Monsignor  Conti  (a  name  highly 
gratefijl  to  that  nation)  to  be  his  Nuncio  to  the  court  of 
Lisbon,  and  had  given  him  no  other  instructions  what- 
soever, but  to  carry  with  him  '  Galateo '  and  the  Deca- 
logue. (You  may  not  know  perhaps  that  '  Galateo ' 
is  a  book  much  esteemed  here  for  the  rules  it  contains 
of  civility  and  politeness.)  That  his  letter  to  the 
Marquis  of  Pombal  was  cordial  and  unaffected  ;  re- 
minding him  of  his  former  Attachment  to  the  interests 
of  the  Church,  when  he  was  Minister  at  Vienna,  and 
expressing  a  Confidence  in  his  piety,  and  in  his  well- 
known  zeal  for  the  support  of  the  Catholic  Religion  ; 
that  if  the  King  of  Portugal  wished  for  the  nomination 
of  a  Cardinal,  he  was  ready  to  grant  it ;  and  that, 
in  short,  he  desired  a  reconciliation  with  the  court 
of  Lisbon,  upon  no  other  Conditions,  but  such  as 
might  best  express  his  paternal  tenderness  and 
affection  for  his  most  faithful  Majesty.  This  language, 
said  his  Holiness,  came  directly  from  my  Heart,  and  it 
pleased  God  to  give  it  success. 

"  If  I  were  to  repeat  to  you  the  many  just  Observa- 
tions he  made  upon  this  Event,  as  well  as  upon  the 
means  he  constantly  employed  to  maintain  a  good 
understanding  and  correspondence  with  the  Princes 
of  the  House  of  Bourbon,  I  should  write  you  a 
letter  too  long  for  an  Ambassador,  x^s  there  was 
no  Formality,  so  there  was  no  exact  order  in  his  Dis- 
course.     The  most  serious  parts  of  his  conversation 


1772]  ^bc  francts  Xetters  143 

were  mixed  with  expressions  of  personal  Kindness 
and  attention  to  us  his  humble  Audience.  He  spoke 
of  the  Duke  of  Gloucester  with  tenderness  and  regard, 
and  seems  sensibly  touched  with  the  acknowledgments 
his  Royal  Highness  had  made  him  of  the  civilities 
he  had  received  at  Rome.  He  also  mentioned  a  late 
Declaration,  but  in  the  most  moderate  and  guarded 
terms.  From  these  subjects  he  descended  to  enquire 
how  we  had  passed  our  time  at  Naples  and  Rome, 
where  we  dined,  and  what  was  our  plan  of  Amusement 
for  the  day.  We  told  him  we  had  provided  a  dinner, 
and  meant  to  eat  it  at  a  Franciscan  convent  in  the 
Neighbourhood.  He  then  was  pleased  to  conduct 
us  through  the  apartments  of  the  Castle,  opened  all 
the  casements  himself,  and  pointed  out  to  us  the 
most  striking  parts  of  the  Prospect.  At  parting  he 
attended  us  to  the  outer  door  of  his  apartments,  gave 
us  his  Benediction,  and  said  that,  being  in  the  country, 
he  was  sorry  he  had  nothing  to  offer  us  by  way  of 
ricordo  or  token  of  Remembrance.  After  a  short  walk 
we  returned  to  the  Convent,  and  found  that  he  had 
sent  us  six  bottles  of  Burgundy,  and  a  large  pasticcio 
from  his  own  Table.  The  good  Franciscans  omitted 
nothing  in  their  power  to  show  their  Hospitality,  nor 
were  they  unwilling  to  drink  long  life  to  their  holy 
Father  in  his  own  wine  ;  but  this  with  Moderation. 
"  Our  obligations  to  his  Holiness  were  not  to  end 
here.  In  going  to  Castello  our  axletree  unfortunately 
broke.  We  had  it  patched  up,  but  it  broke  down 
again  within  a  hundred  yards  of  the  Castle.  There 
was  no  remedy  but  to  apply  to  the  Pope's  Master 
of  the  Horse  for  a  carriage  to  convey  us  to  Rome. 


144  tCbc  frauds  Xettcrs  [1772 

He  asked  his  Holiness's  permission,  and  it  was  granted 
immediately  with  a  readiness  to  which  I  should  be 
far  from  doing  Justice  if  I  called  it  only  polite. 

*'  This  letter  you  may  consider  as  an  involuntary 
Effusion  of  gratitude  for  Favours  great  and  unmerited. 
I  expect  that  you  will  share  with  me  in  the  pleasure 
of  this  day.  It  was  a  pleasure  not  only  high  in  degree, 
but  of  the  purest  sort,  for  it  was  unattended  with 
regret.  Though  not  a  convert  to  the  doctrines  of 
this  Church,  I  am  a  Proselyte  to  the  Pope.  Whoever 
has  the  honour  of  conversing  with  him  will  see  that 
it  is  possible  to  be  a  Papist  without  being  a  Roman 
Catholic. 

"  I  will  not  conclude  without  a  formal  Protest 
against  your  taking  the  trouble  of  answering  this  letter. 
I  know  your  punctuality  in  these  matters  ;  but  I  also 
know  how  much  better  and  more  usefully  you  are 
employed.  \x\ publica  commoda  peccent.  A  line  from 
my  old  Friend  and  fellow-labourer,  to  acknowledge 
the  receipt,  will  be  quite  sufficient.  He  will  be  so 
good  as  to  direct  it  to  the  care  of  Messieurs  le 
Coulteux,  at  Paris.  In  a  few  weeks  I  promise  myself 
the  pleasure  of  seeing  you.  My  friend  James,  by 
whom  I  wish  to  be  kindly  remembered,  is  a  ready 
Penman,  and  will  give  me  the  news  of  the  day.  I 
have  not  been  long  enough  out  of  England  to  be 
indifferent  about  Politics.  I  beg  of  you  to  present 
my  best  compliments  and  sincerest  good  wishes  to 
Mrs.  Campbell,  and  that  you  will  believe  me,  with 
truth  and  affection, 

"  Yours, 

"  P.  Francis." 


1772]  ^be  jfrancis  Xetters  hs 

Francis  seems  to  have  written  in  a  similar  strain  as 
regards  his  visit  to  the  Pope  in  a  letter  to  his  cousin 
Richard  Tilghman.  The  reply  of  the  latter  is 
interesting  in  one  particular — namely,  by  the  intro- 
duction of  a  name  now  notorious  : — 

"  I  lament  exceedingly  his  Holiness  did  not  give 
you  by  way  of  ricordo,  the  Decalogue  and  that  fine 
book  *  Galateo  '  the  one  would  have  taught  you  charity 
and  the  other  politeness.  I  think  I  never  received  a 
letter  so  strange,  &  so  full  of  impudence  and  abuse 
as  your  last.  You  never  knew  but  one  man  who  was 
hanged,  &  he  was  a  lawyer !  The  inuendo  is  so 
plain  that  I  can't  help  understanding  you.  We  are 
novi  homines  are  we  ?  It  is  but  fair  to  take  you 
down  a  little  for  your  ignorance  in  history.  This  day 
[May  I  St]  is  the  birthday  of  an  American  ancestor 
of  mine,  of  the  name  of  Tammany,  who,  as  you  ought 
to  have  known,  was  canonised  about  eleven  hundred 
years  ago." 

In  his  Autobiography  we  find  Philip  Francis  writing 
about  his  circumstances  at  this  period  : — 

"  After  an  absence  of  five  months  I  returned  to 
England.  Constant  anxiety  made  me  restless  and 
impatient.  The  place  I  was  not  in  seemed  always 
preferable  to  my  actual  situation.  I  felt  that  I  was 
a  burden  to  myself  as  well  as  to  my  friends.  But 
the  generous  heart  of  D'Oyly  never  failed  me.  He 
had  hardly  a  thought,  a  word,  or  action  that  was 
not  directed  to  do  me  service." 

During  his  tour  Philip  had  heard  of  the  death  of  an 

10 


146  Ubc  ifrancis  Xcttcrs  [i77» 

old  and  much  valued  friend,  Mr.  Calcraft,  who  had  also 
been  a  friend  of  Dr.  Francis.     Philip  writes  of  him  : — 

"  Calcraft  had  agreed  to  meet  me  at  Naples  in 
the  Autumn.  We  parted  with  every  possible  mark 
of  Affection — never  to  meet  again." 

Not  long  after  Francis's  return  to  England,  Dr. 
Francis  died  at  Bath  on  March  5th,  1773.  ^^  ^^^ 
of  his  later  letters  to  his  son  Dr.  Francis  had 
written  : — 

"  Farewell  my  dearly  beloved  and  esteemed.  May 
your  Boy  make  you  as  happy  a  Father  as  I  am  ! " 

The  physical  condition  of  the  father  had  been 
sinking  lower  and  lower.  His  son  writes  about  his 
state : — 

"  I  went  to  Bath  to  see  and  take  a  final  leave 
of  my  good  Father.  ...  I  found  him  reduced  to  a 
state  lower  than  Infancy  and  insensible  even  to  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  a  Son  he  adored.  May  I  never 
exhibit  so  melancholy  a  sight ;  or  may  they  who 
behold  me,  look  forward,  as  I  do,  with  tenderness 
and  sympathy  to  their  own  Decline  and  to  the  possi- 
bility of  a  similar  misfortune !  My  Father  died  on 
the  5th  March  1773.  I  have  kept  all  his  Letters 
with  several  of  my  own,  and  earnestly  desire  that 
they  may  be  preserved  for  ever  in  my  Family." 

Dr.  Francis  left  the  following  undated  memorandum 
for  his  son  : — 

'•  I  have  desired  my  ever  faithful  Sally  not  to 
send     you    this    paper    until    the    wretched    Writer 


1773]  Ttbe  iprancis  Xetters  147 

shall  be  no  more.  Take  then  my  dearest  Phil  my 
last  farewell — Take  all  my  thanks  for  your  Kindness 
and  Tenderness,  your  Care  and  Punctuality  in  my 
affairs.  With  regard  to  this  world,  I  have  only  to 
hope  that  the  money  arising  from  Mr.  Jenning's 
Bond  may  be  remitted  to  Sally,  to  pay  the  Expenses 
of  burying  me,  with  my  servants'  wages  and  the 
present  quarter's  rent  of  my  house.  I  have  no  other 
debts — I  am  no  longer  able  to  hold  my  pen  and  I 
end  with  my  best  assurances  of  my  Affection  and 
Esteem  for  you  and  all  your  Family. 
"  Farewell  for  ever ! " 

Thus  ends  the  correspondence  between  the  father 
and  son  which  had  begun  some  twenty  years 
before,  on  the  father's  side,  with  the  words  :  "  From 
this  moment  I  offer  you  my  whole  heart,  even  all 
its  weaknesses  and  frailties — without  disguise,  without 
reserve." 

In  his  Autobiography  Philip  wrote,  after  the  de- 
scription of  his  last  visit  to  his  father : — 

"  My  hopes  of  employment  were  distant  and  un- 
certain. The  interval  had  to  be  amused  and  if 
possible  with  credit." 

Accordingly  he  began  to  make  a  translation  of  M. 
de  Pinto's  Essay  on  Circulation,  and  went  to  The 
Hague  to  consult  the  author  about  it.     He  writes  : — 

"  But  neither  this  nor  any  other  Occupation  was 
sufficient  to  defend  me  from  fits  of  Despondence. 
It   was    in   vain    to    shut  my  eyes   to    my   Situation. 


148  TTbe  ifrancis  Xetters  [1773 

Wherever    I   went,  or   whatever    I    did,   the  Spectre 
haunted  and  pursued  me. 

"  Alexander  Mackrabie  had  lately  returned  from 
America.  He  had  purchased  a  thousand  acres  for 
me  in  Pennsylvania  where  I  meant  to  secure  a  retreat 
for  myself  or  my  Family  if  ever  England  should  cease 
to  be  the  seat  of  Freedom.  The  question  now 
seriously  agitated  in  my  mind  was  whether  I  ought 
not  to  transplant  myself  at  once,  and  take  possession 
of  this  establishment  before  my  little  capital  was  ex- 
hausted. This  was  actually  the  subject  of  a  dismal 
conversation  between  Mackrabie  and  me  on  the  4th 
of  June,  when  we  accidentally  met  a  Gentleman  in 
the  Park,  who  informed  me  that  John  Cholwell,  one 
of  the  intended  Commissioners  for  India  had  declined 
the  nomination.  I  immediately  went  to  D'Oyly,  who 
wrote  to  Grey  Cooper.  It  was  the  King's  birthday 
and  Barrington  was  gone  to  Court.  I  saw  him  the 
next  morning  ;  as  soon  as  I  had  explained  my  views 
to  him,  he  wrote  the  handsomest  and  strongest 
letter  imaginable  in  my  favour  to  Lord  North  ; 
other  interests  contributed  but  I  owe  my  success  to 
Barrington."  ^ 

June  4th,  1773,  was  therefore  a  marked  day  in 
Francis's  life.  Spectre-haunted,  like  all  his  days  of  this 
period,  at  its  beginning,  it  was  brightened  by  a  sudden 
hope  at  its  close.  Mr.  Francis  was,  in  fact,  appointed 
to  be  a  member  of  the  New  Council  of  India,  created 
by  Act  of  Parliament  in  June,  1773,  "  for  establishing 

^  Lord  Barrington,  Secretary  at  War,  under  whom  both  D'Oyly 
and  Francis  had  served. 


1773]  XTbe  ifrancig  Xetters  149 

certain  regulations  for  the  better  management  of  the 
affairs  of  the  East  India  Company  as  well  in  India 
as  in  England."  There  were  to  be  four  members 
in  the  Council,  and  Mr.  Hastings,  the  Governor- 
General,  was  to  be  the  President.  Mr.  Francis 
was  to  receive  a  salary  of  ^10,000  a  year.  The 
colleagues  of  Francis  in  this  Council  were  General 
Clavering  and  Colonel  Monson ;  Mr.  Barwell, 
already  in  India,  a  servant  of  the  Company,  made 
the  fourth. 

Though  Francis  received  the  appointment  in  June, 
1773,  he  did  not  leave  England  for  India  until  the 
end  of  March  1774.  During  this  interval  he  visited 
Lord  Clive  at  Walcot,  and  became  very  intimate  with 
him  and  his  family. 

Philip  Francis  to  Mrs.  Francis. 

"  Walcot, 
"Saturday,  2\thjuly,  1773. 

"  My  dearest  Betsy, 

"  I  suppose  you  may  like  to  hear  from  me 
again,  though  I  wrote  on  Thursday.  My  Time  is  so 
much  taken  up  with  the  pleasures  of  life  that  I  have 
very  little  Opportunity  to  attend  to  Business.  These 
are  the  best-humoured  People  in  the  World,  and  let 
me  do  exactly  what  I  please :  but  what  they  do 
themselves,  is  so  very  near  what  I  like  to  do,  that 
we  are  generally  of  a  Party.  I  ought  to  give  you 
an  account  of  our  Way  of  Life,  but  I  have  no  Leisure 
for  Description.  Among  other  enjoyments  they  ruin 
me  at  Quadrille.  We  have  not  hands  enough  for 
Whist.  When  we  arrived  at  Ludlow,  we  found  that 
Lord  Clive  was  within   two    miles   of  us   at    Oakley 


ISO  Ube  jfrancls  Xetters  [1773 

Park,  where  we  lay  that  night  ;  a  charming  place, 
but  not  equal  to  this  ; — the  next  day  we  galloped 
here,  about  13  Miles,  and  tomorrow  I  hear  we  are 
to  visit  Oakley  Park  again.  Incomparable  Beds  in 
both  quarters.  Lady  Clive  is  very  civil  about  you 
and  the  Children ;  indeed  she  is  better  than  civil  : — 
it  is  true  good  Nature.  I  propose  to  leave  this  on 
Sunday  night. — I  propose,  but  am  not  certain. — I  am 
pretty  sure  we  shall  not  sail  before  the  middle  of 
December,  so  that  there  will  be  time  enough  for 
Margate. 

"  I  have  had  strange  thoughts  lately  about  Allen 
and  my  Son. — If  I  could  make  it  worth  his  while  to 
undertake  the  Tuition. — We'll  think  on't.  My  love 
to  the  Sweet  fellow  and  his  dear  Sisters.  Compli- 
ments to  all  the  good  Family  at  Fulham. 

"  Yours,  dearest  yours, 

"  P.  F." 

The  Same  to  the  Same. 

"  Walcot, 
''list  July,  1773. 

"  My  dearest  Wife, 

*'  As  I  propose  being  in  Town  on  Tuesday 
night  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  say  much  at  present. 
I  have  received  yours  of  the  27th,  and  observe,  this 
is  my  third. — I  rejoice  at  Sally's  success.  Many 
thanks  to  your  Brother  for  his  Letter.  I  fancy  he 
will  hardly  see  France,  till  he  returns  from  Bengal.^ 
We  continue  here  in  the  same  good  humour  and  good 
living.  I  never  saw  so  much  of  either  in  one  house. 
Yesterday  came  two  Druids  from  Plynlymmon,  with 

^  Mackrabie  accompanied  Francis  to  India  as  his  Private  Secretary. 


1773]  XTbe  francis  Xetters  151 

Harp  and  Fiddle.  We  had  Plenty  of  Company  and 
danced  all  the  Evening  like  Dragons.  Miss  Ducarel 
says  that  knowing  such  a  sweet  Creature  as  me  makes 
her  wish  to  know  such  a  sweet  Creature  as  you. 

"  Phil.  Baggs  will  be  in  England  in  September. 
You  may  read  his  Letter.  You  did  very  well  to 
leave  Fulham. 

**  Compts  to  your  Mother  and  Love  to  the  chickens 

"Yours  ;  Yours  P    F. 

"  This  good  Lord  &  Lady  drink  to  you  and  my 
progeny  every  day." 

"  Friday,  August  2jth,  1773. 

"  Dear  Wife, 

"  I  sat  an  hour  with  Lord  N.  this  morning, 
and  had  a  great  deal  of  very  satisfactory  Conversation. 
It  looks  very  probable  that  we  shall  depart  about  the 
end  of  October.  He  agrees  that  I  shall  return  to 
Margate  and  stay  as  long  as  I  proposed.  I  am  to 
see  him  again  to-morrow  in  Downing  Street,  and 
intend  lying  at  Ingress,  so  I  shall  be  with  you  on 
Sunday  to  dinner. 

"  Lord  N.  asked  me  to  dinner,  but  it  was  incon- 
venient, so  I  dined  at  Twickenham.  .  .   . 

"  Just  returned  from  Fulham.  Found  the  old  Folks 
all  well,  and  in  the  fact  of  playing  at  quadrille. 
Called  at  the  school,  and  took  the  three  Girls  into 
the  carriage,  healthy  and  handsome,  though  in  their 
Bedgowns.  I  have  hardly  time  to  seal  this,  so 
farewell. 

"  To  Mrs.  Francis,  at  Mrs.  Granger's, 
"  Bowling  Green,  Margate.^' 


152  tlbc  franciB  Xetters  [1773 

Lady  Clive  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  Walcot,  Nr.  Ludlow, 
"  August  list,  1773. 

"  In  English,  being  too  weak  in  Italian,  I  will  in 
a  few  words  take  upon  me  to  answer  Mr.  Francis's 
letter  to  Mr.  Strachey  [Secretary  to  Lord  Clive], 
and  I  am  to  begin  by  returning  him  thanks  for  the 
kind  remembrance  in  which  he  holds  me  and  my 
family.  Lord  Clive,  the  Stracheys,  and  Miss  Ducarel, 
and  my  three  daughters,  desire  to  offer  to  Mr.  Francis 
every  good  wish,  and  to  inform  him  the  time  he 
passed  in  our  house  passed  too  quickly  away  ;  moreover 
that  as  he  does  not  go  till  next  month  for  India, 
they  think  he  might  bestow  one  more  look  upon  us 
in  this  country.  It  is  wonderful  that  without  Mr. 
Francis  Ludlow  races  should  have  proved  so  delightful, 
and  yet  they  have  dismissed  our  large  party  in  better 
health,  and  in  better  spirits  than  when  they  first 
commanded  our  unwilling  attendance.  Those  of 
Shrewsbury  are  to  begin  on  September  14th.  How 
charming  it  would  be  if  Mr.  Francis  would  accompany 
Colonel  Tonyn  to  that  place  of  gaiety  and  pleasure ! 
Colonel  Tonyn,  if  still  in  the  land  of  the  living,  would 
probably  prove  a  more  lively  companion  than  poor 
dear  Mr.  Ashby,  who,  amidst  all  his  sorrows,  never- 
theless won  Mr.  Francis's  affection  and  liking  ;  but 
if  Mrs.  Francis  will  come  I  shall  be  most  glad. 

"  You  need  not  be  apprehensive,  dear  Sir,  of  exciting 
in  my  mind  groundless  fears  of  future  events,  since 
the  past  has  so  exactly  corresponded  with  those  you 
fear  may  happen,  that  I  am  always  prepared  for  such 
disasters,  and  give  away  my  pets  as  fast  as  they  are 


1773]  Ube  jprancis  Xctters  153 

brought  into  life,  in  order  to  make  others  share  in 
the  grief  of  losing  them,  and  that  the  whole  burthen 
may  not  rest  on  me.  Domenico  Balestrieri  ^  lamented 
one  cat,  fallen  from  the  top  of  a  house  and  crushed 
to  death  ;  I  not  only  one  so  lost,  but  two  besides,  the 
fathers  of  families,  basely  assassinated  and  put  to  death 
by  wretched  boors,  that  pretended  to  believe  the 
lovely  creatures  were  wild  and  mischievous  animals  ; 
one  fair  snowy  female  hurried  out  of  life  by  an  odious 
rat  at  two  months  old,  another  over-crammed  at 
Walcot,  another  still-born  at  Claremont,  some  of  both 
sexes  crushed  by  doors,  others  lost  by  bad  nursing, 
and  some  hundreds  now  begging  their  bread. 

"  Let  me  tell  you.  Sir,  I  think  you  have,  with  the 
utmost  modesty,  chosen  for  yourself  a  very  proper 
situation  between  the  two  extremes  of  high  exaltation 
and  the  lowest  degree  of  favour,  but  will  you  be 
content  to  remain  there,  and  not  seek  to  supplant 
Tufty  as  well  as  Beaumy  ?  According  as  ye  all 
behave  so  will  I  be  unto  ye,  and  no  other  promise  will 
I  make. 

"  I  am  now  to  thank  you  for  a  very  signal  favour. 
The  present  you  have  made  me  is  very  acceptable, 
and  has  afforded  me  great  pleasure  and  satisfaction. 
The  sonnet  upon  mewing  is  happily  expressed  by 
gnao,  gnao ;  and  many  others  of  them  in  wit  and 
pleasantry  exceed  everything  I  ever  met  with.  The 
lamentations  are  very  affecting,  and  fitted  to  the 
subject.  I  should  have  written  to  you  in  Italian,  but 
that  I  found,  upon  making  an  essay,  I  was  too  much 
out   of  practice,    and  that  the  post    would  not    wait. 

^  A  Milanese  poet  of  the  eighteenth  century. 


154  XCbc  ifrancis  Xcttcrg  [1773 

I    should   think   the   book   complete,    were   there   to 

every   sonnet   a   picture   of    the    dear    Micio   or   cat 

prefixed.     I  may  say  with  equal  truth  of  each  of  my 

murdered  cats,  as  does  Domenico  Balestrieri  of  his  : 

la  stampa 
Natura  fece,  e  poi  ruppe  il  modello. 

"  I  hope  this  will  find  you,  Mrs.  Francis  and  the 
little  ones  well,  and  that  every  happiness  may  attend 
you  and  them  is  the  wish  of,  dear  Sir, 

"  Your  most  obedient  and  humble  servant, 

•'  M.  Clive. 

"In  return  for  your  present  I  am  willing  to  bestow 
on  you  a  loan.  There  is  in  my  drawer  of  papers  a 
well-told  and  true  description  of  the  earthquake  at 
Lisbon  in  the  year  1755.^  Upon  hearing  me  mention 
it,  you  once  expressed  an  inclination  to  read  it,  and  I 
was  desirous  you  should.  Now,  if  you  care  about 
it,  and  will  take  the  trouble  of  asking  Mr.  Crisp  for 
it,  I  shall  be  pleased  with  you.  I  should  not  be 
sorry  to  have  one  copy  taken  of  it.  So  you  may 
order  that  too." 

Philip  Francis  to  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Hay  ^  at 

Barbadoes. 

"  London, 
"  November /^h,  IJT^. 

"  Dear  Madam, 

"  I    have  rather  more  reason  than  yourself, 
because    I    am    going    to    a    greater    distance   than 

^  This  letter  is  printed  almost  in  extenso  in  J.  A.  Smith's  [Conde 
da  Carnota's]  "  Life  of  Pombal,"  p.  51,  sqq.  (ed.  1871). 

2  Wife  of  the  Governor  of  Barbadoes.  Mr.  Hay  had  been  English 
Minister  in  Portugal  at  the  time  of  Lord  Kinnoul's  special  mission. 


1773]  ttbe  jfrancts  Xettcrs  155 

Barbadoes,  to  wish  that  people  in  England  were  a 
little  more  attentive  than  they  usually  are  to  their 
friends  in  Banishment.  But  it  is  in  vain  for  us  to  be 
angry.  They  have  the  rod  of  Silence  in  their  hands, 
and  may  plague  us  to  death  without  any  trouble  to 
themselves.  I  hope,  however,  that  our  letters  from 
Margate  have  recovered  Mrs.  Francis  and  me,  in 
some  degree,  in  your  opinion.  I  really  have  all  the 
dispositions  in  the  world  to  be  a  good  Correspondent, 
if  time  and  place  would  co-operate.  I  am  also  very 
well  disposed  to  live  long  and  see  good  days.  Your 
kind  advice  about  my  Health  shall  not  be  neglected. 
You  already  know  that  Mrs.  Francis  is  not  to 
accompany  me  to  India ;  it  is  her  own  choice  and 
resolution,  and  severely  felt  by  us  both.  She  dreads 
the  effect  of  the  Climate  upon  her  nerves  ;  and  even  if 
there  were  no  apprehension  on  the  article  of  Health, 
what  are  five  little  girls  and  a  boy  to  do,  deprived 
both  of  Mother  and  Father  ?  Your  own  feelings  and 
judgment  suggested  to  you  what  her  Determination 
would  be.  But  all  this  will  come  right  again.  If  I 
survive  the  trial,  it  will  have  made  me  an  independent 
man.  You  know  my  way  of  thinking,  and  that  to  a 
temper  like  mine  Independence  is  the  first  ingredient 
of  Happiness.  Difficulties  about  the  mode  of  con- 
veyance have  retarded  our  departure.  Everything  is 
now  settled  to  our  entire  Satisfaction,  and  I  think  it 
looks  probable,  that  we  shall  not  spend  next  new 
year's  day  in  England.  I  will  not  promise  much  for 
myself  about  Correspondence  from  Bengal,  but  you 
will  hear  regularly  from  Mrs.  Francis,  who  will  think 
herself  happily  employed  in  giving  you  advice  of  my 


156  Zbc  francfs  Xctters  [1773 

Proceedings.  This,  however,  will  not  be  the  last 
letter  you  will  receive  from  me  before  I  go.  In  your 
next  I  hope  to  receive  the  confirmation  of  a  Report 
current  among  the  West  Indians  here,  that  the  two 
Miss  Hays  have  quitted  that  Title.  Our  best  wishes 
wait  upon  them  in  every  state.  Shall  we  all  meet 
again,  and  compare  notes  about  the  atmosphere  ? 
When  you  are  languishing  at  Barbadoes,  think  what 
it  is  to  be  dissolved  at  Calcutta,  and  comfort  yourself 
with  the  idea  that  some  of  your  friends  are  hotter  than 
yourself  This  is  one  of  the  principal  consolations  to 
be  derived  from  Friendship.  Allen  is  well,  though 
not  much  the  better  for  my  leaving  him  in  Portugal. 

"  P.  F." 

Philip  Francis  to  Miss  Holden 

at  fulham. 

"  Duke  Street, 
"November  x^th,  1773. 

"  My  DEAR  Miss  Holden, 

"It  was  bad  Policy  in  you  to  sufifer  me  to 
run  so  deeply  into  your  Debt.  I  should  not  have 
been  afraid  to  acknowledge  a  moderate  Obligation, 
because  I  should  have  lived  in  hopes  of  being  able 
to  return  it  some  time  or  other.  But  when  I  consider 
the  Favour  you  have  done  me,  the  pains  you  have 
taken,  and  the  wonderful  elegance  of  the  Performance, 
I  own  I  am  tempted  to  be  ungrateful.  I  can  hardly 
persuade  myself  to  thank  you  at  all,  since  I  never 
can  thank  you  enough.  But  if  I  say  little  upon  the 
subject,  be  assured  I  pay  you  off  in  thinking.  I 
shall  for  ever  esteem  this  Waistcoat  as  the  dearest 
and  most  ornamental  part  of  my  Dress.     It  shall  only 


1773]  Ube  brands  Xetters  157 

be  worn  upon  Festivals,  that  I  may  bring  it  back  as 
bright  if  possible,  as  when  I  received  it,  and  shine 
as  long  as  I  can  in  the  Lustre  which  you  have  lent 
me.  From  waistcoats  there  is  a  natural  transition 
to  potted  Snipes.  Instead  of  trusting  hereafter  to 
Providence  for  food  and  raiment,  I  propose  to  trust 
entirely  to  you  and  your  Mother  :  you  shall  both  be 
better  treated  in  return  than  Providence  usually  is 
upon  these  occasions." 

Richard  Tilghman  wrote  from  Philadelphia  on  hear- 
ing of  his  cousin's  good  fortune  : — 

"  Philadelphia, 
"Aug.  20/k,  1773. 

"  Dear  Francis, 

"  You  have  not  a  Friend  in  the  world  that 
rejoices  at  your  good  fortune  more  than  I  do.  What 
a  glorious  Appointment !  ...  It  makes  me  not  a  little 
proud  that  in  the  day  of  your  Elevation  you  have  not 
forgotten  your  old  Friend.  Do,  Mr.  Councillor,  as 
soon  as  you  get  to  Bengal,  establish  some  office  with 
a  handsome  Salary  and  send  for  me  to  fill  it.  I  am 
tired  of  my  country  and  my  Profession.  There  is 
neither  honour  nor  profit  to  be  got  by  practising  the 
law  among  these  Quakers. 

"  Our  new  Governor  and  his  Lady  with  several 
fine  Horses,  arrived  here  a  day  or  two  ago  from 
England.  But  what  care  you  ?  I  might  as  well  read 
you  a  page  of  the  history  of  Lilliput.  I  suppose  all 
North  America  and  all  its  concerns  appear  as  trifling 


is8  TCbe  jprancts  Xctters  [1773 

to  you  as  the  disturbances  and   wars  in  Greece  did 
to  Alexander  in   India.  .  .  . 

"As  to  England  when  you  are  gone  I  shall  hardly 
wish  to  return  to  it.  My  old  Friends  you  say  are 
all  dispersed.  What  then  should  I  do  there  ?  I 
should  be  miserable  to  find  myself  at  a  loss  for 
companions  in  a  place  where  I  was  once  so  happily 
connected.  I  would  write  to  Mr.  Secretary  Mackrabie, 
but  really  have  not  time.  I  charge  you  take  care  of 
y'  health. 

"  Believe   me   to   be  with   the   greatest   Affection, 
yours, 

"  Richard  Tilghman. 

"  Do  not  neglect  to  give  my  love  to  Mrs.  Francis." 
Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife. 

"  Thursday, 
"  Heaven  knows  what  day  of  the  month, 
"  in  the  year  1773. 

"  My  dearest  Betty, 

"  I  snatch  one  moment,  being  all  that  I  can 
spare  from  feasting,  singing,  gaming,  riding,  and 
sleeping  in  a  Bed  as  wide  as  our  best  Parlour,  to 
tell  you  that  I  perform  all  the  offices  of  life  above- 
mentioned  to  admiration.  I  had  the  pleasure  of 
travelling  two  days  in  company  with  a  very  good 
natured  man,  who  never  once  opened  his  lips  but 
to  complain  of  his  misfortunes.  N.B.  He  is 
melancholy  mad,  having  lost  a  Trunk  at  his  outset 
from  London,  from  behind  his  chaise,  containing  the 
title  deeds  of  all  the  Estates  in  Shropshire — Lord 
Clive's  among  the  rest.      I   have  got  into  a  set  of 


1773}  Xtbc  jfrancis  XetterB  159 

the  most  good  humoured  people  upon  earth,  a  charm- 
ing House  and  fine  Park,  seven  dogs  and  two  dozen 
of  cats.  Lady  CHve  has  it  much  at  heart  that  her 
guests  should  sleep  well,  and  the  Beds  are  Incom- 
parable, This,  you  know,  is  a  capital  circumstance. 
I  am  just  risen  from  a  monstrous  dinner  with  twenty- 
three  of  Lord  Clive's  free-voters  at  Bishop's  Castle. 
Lady  Clive  drinks  your  health  every  day,  not  for- 
getting the  Bairns.  Mem.  Kiss  them  in  my  name 
repeatedly.  Bid  your  brother  write  to  me  copiously. 
I  have  just  one  quarter  of  an  hour  in  the  day 
which  I  can  dedicate  to  the  reading  of  letters. 
Farewell,  dearest !  Compliments  to  your  aged  Father 
and   Mother  and  Patty. 

"  Yours,  yours, 

"Ph. 

"  Direct   under   cover   to    Lord   Clive,  at  Walcot, 
near  Bishop's  Castle,  Salop." 

The    following    is    from    his    former    chief,*  Lord 
Barrington  : — 

"Cavendish  Square, 
"  September  4M,  1773. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

"  Many  persons,  knowing  the  long  con- 
nection which  has  subsisted  between  you  and  me, 
have  pressed  me  to  recommend  their  relations  in  India 
to  your  favour  and  protection.  In  general  I  have 
excused  myself  from  this ;  but  I  have  two  friends  to 
whom  I  can  refuse  nothing.  One  of  them  recommends 
young  Mr.  Cadogan,  who  is  on  the  civil  line,  the 
other   Lieutenant   Bucknall,  who    is   on   the  military. 


i6o  Ube  Francis  Xetters  [1773 

If  you  can  with  propriety  do  any  service  to  these 
Gentlemen,  you  will  lay  me  under  a  real  obligation. 
I  am,  with  my  best  wishes  for  your  health,  happi- 
ness, and  success, 

"  Dear  Sir, 
"  Your  most  faithful  and  obedient  humble  servant, 

"  Barrington." 

Philip  Francis  to  Lord  Barrington. 

"  Margate, 
6th  September,  1773. 

"  My  Lord, 

"I  have  just  received  the  Honor  of  your 
Lordship's  Letter,  &  can  with  the  greatest  Truth 
assure  you  that  I  consider  the  Request  you  make  me 
as  a  sensible  Addition  to  the  signal  Obligation  I  already 
owe  you.  It  was  my  Intention  to  have  asked  it  as  a 
favour  of  your  Lordship  that  you  would  give  me  an 
Opportunity  of  shewing  you  that  your  patronage  & 
Friendship  were  not  ill  bestowed.  The  Gentlemen 
you  mention  shall  take  place  of  every  other  Recom- 
mendation &  I  beg  of  you  not  to  limit  yourself  to  two 
Names  only.  I  shall  think  it  an  honor  &  happiness 
to  be  permitted  to  consider  your  Lordship's  Friends 
as  mine.  When  you  confer  a  Favour  you  make  the 
Impression  deep  &  distinct.  I  have  the  Honour  to 
be  with  the  greatest  Respect  &  Attachment,  my  Lord, 

"  Your  Lordship's,  most  faithful  humble  Servant. 

"  P.  Francis." 

Lady  Clive  to  Philip  Francis,  with  Present 

OF  Attar  of  Roses. 
"  The  little  bottle  of  all  is  for  Mr.  Francis's  pocket 
to  be  always  kept  there.     The  very  largest  is  for  a 


1774]  ITbe  francts  Xetters  i6i 

reserve,  and  not  to  be  unsealed  till  he  really  wants 
it,  for  it  is  the  most  exquisite  Atta  or  essence  that 
ever  came  from  King  or  Prince,  and  this  came  from 
a  King. 

"  The  middling  sized  bottle  is  for  Mrs.  Francis  her 
own  dear  self  All  should  be  kept  in  some  sort  of 
case,  if  it  be  but  cotton  or  paper,  for  it  is,  like  all 
other  goodness,  too  apt  to  evaporate. 

"If  best  wishes,  if  regard  and  respect  for  the 
characters  this  little  present  comes  to,  can  render  it 
acceptable  I  shall  be  delighted.  To  Heaven's  Pro- 
tection I  recommend  them,  and  Oh !  how  much  I 
desire  to  be  known  for  their  sincere  friend. 

"  My  sister  joins  me  in  kind  compts. 

"  M.  Clive. 

"y>tk  March,  1774." 

Before  Francis  left  England  he  made  Mr.  Chandler 
and  Mr.  D'Oyly  his  trustees,  and  in  a  way  committed 
his  wife  to  their  charge.     Mr.  Chandler  writes : — 

Mr.  Chandler  to  Philip  Francis. 

"Preston  Street, 
''March  30/^,  1774. 

"  Dear  Francis, 

"  I  intended  visiting  you  to-night  before  I 
saw  you  this  evening,  and  missing  Mrs.  Francis  shall 
not  prevent  it,  although  to  say  how  she  was  as  late 
as  possible  was  one  motive.  You  may  depend  on 
Mrs.  Chandler's  and  my  seeing  her  to-morrow  and 
every  day  that  we  possibly  can,  to  aleviate  her  great 
loss  all  that  Friends  can.  Another  motive  was  to  tell 
you  I  won't  make  your  Insurance.     God  preserve  you 

11 


i62  XTbe  ifrancis  Xetters  [1774 

very  long  to  your  family !  He  has  been  already 
bountiful  to  you  and  yours  in  His  blessings.  If  His 
Almighty  will  disposes  of  you  otherwise  than  we  wish, 
depend  on  it  your  dear  Children  shall  never  want  the 
sum  the  Insurance  would  have  raised  them.  God 
preserve  you  !  The  four  hundred  shall  be  taken  care 
of.  A  happy  speedy  voyage,  and  every  good  that 
can  befal  you,  is  the  sincere  wish  of  your  affectionate 
friend, 

**  George  Chandler." 

Mr.  D'Oyly,  writing  to  accept  the  charge,  says  : — 

"In  return  I  expect  that  you  are  not  at  all 
anxious  about  your  wife  and  family,  for  you  have  left 
those  here  that  will  take  care  of  them." 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife. 

"  London, 
''March  30/*,  1774. 

"  I  have  paid  into  Messrs,  Drummond's  hands  a 
sum  of  ^500  for  your  use,  and  subject  to  your 
Orders,  This,  with  the  sum  of  £g2>  which  I  leave 
with  you,  amounts  to  ^593.  My  intention  is  to 
allow  your  Father  £2^  a  year,  to  be  reckoned  from 
the  day  I  embark.  Of  this  he  has  already  received 
ten  Guineas  on  account.  You  will  pay  him  the  re- 
mainder {£i/^.  10.  o)  any  time  within  the  year ; 
but  do  not  advance  any  more  till  this  time  twelve- 
month. 

"  You  are  to  pay  my  Father's  pensioner  half  a 
guinea  on  the  twelfth  of  every  month. 

"  On  April   ist,  1775,  my  Trustees  are  directed  to 


1774]  Ubc  iFrancis  Xetters  163 

pay  you  ;^63i.  6.  o.  or  such  a  proportion  of  that 
sum  as  you  may  desire,  and  so  on  annually.  You  will 
leave  it  at  Drummond's,  and  draw  for  it  as  you  want 
it.  Keep  an  account  of  your  Drafts  that  you  may 
know  how  your  money  lasts.  If  the  above  annuities 
fall  in,  you  will  have  the  advantage  of  it. 

"As  you  are  to  have  the  above  sum  paid  annually 
on  a  stated  day,  it  is  not  material  to  you  whether  I 
leave  the  rent,  taxes,  schooling,  &c.,  paid  up  or  not  to 
the  day  of  my  Departure,  but  I  shall  leave  you  an 
exact  statement  of  those  articles  as  they  stand  due.  I 
wish  you  may  be  able,  for  three  years  at  least,  to  live 
on  this  Allowance ;  but  I  should  be  very  unhappy 
to  think  you  were  distressed.  You  are  therefore  at 
liberty  to  apply  to  my  Trustees  for  ;i^5o  more,  if  you 
find  you  want  it  at  the  end  of  the  year.  This,  I 
hope,  will  remove  all  difficulties  and  apprehensions. 

"  I  have  made  the  best  Provision  I  can  for  my  son's 
education.  I  need  not  recommend  it  to  you  to  see 
him  often,  and  tell  Mr.  Ribouville  freely  anything  you 
think  amiss.  The  girls  will  fall  more  particularly 
under  your  care.  Sally  is  to  come  home  at  Christmas 
next,  or  at  Midsummer  1775  at  farthest.  I  leave  that 
and  everything  relative  to  the  periods  of  their  going 
to  and  quitting  the  School  to  your  own  Discretion. 

"  I  wish  you  to  live  rather  a  retired,  but  not  a 
dull  and  melancholy  life. 

"  You  have  Acquaintances  enough,  and  I  wish  you 
to  avoid  new  ones.  In  general,  prefer  those  Friends 
who  live  nearest  to  you.  Let  the  Girls  be  taught  a 
grave,  modest,  reserved  carriage.  I  dislike  Hoydens. 
Keep  them   constantly  in   your  company  (when  from 


r64  Ube  francts  Xettcrs  [1774 

school)  and  observe  everything  they  do.  Let  them 
have  Exercise  abroad,  and  constant  Occupation  at 
home.  Take  care  what  Books  they  read  ;  and  if  you 
take  them  to  a  Play,  which  should  not  be  above  once  in 
a  winter,  let  it  be  some  ridiculous  Comedy  or  Panto- 
mime at  which  they  may  laugh,  but  nothing  sentimental, 
or  that  borders  upon  Indecorum.  Above  all  things, 
never  suffer  them  to  be  idle.  The  older  they  grow 
the  more  necessary  you  will  find  this  rule  to  be. 
When  you  want  medical  assistance  you  may  always 
have  that  of  Mr.  Adair  and  Dr.  Macnamara.  Keep 
an  account  book  for  all  the  money  you  pay  (exclusive 
of  your  house  and  private  expenses),  and  mark  the 
day  to  which  every  article  is  paid  up." 

Mr.  Francis  and  Alexander  Mackrabie  left  home 
on  March  30th,  1774.  We  give  extracts  from 
Mackrabie's  Journal  and  letters  written  during  the 
voyage  : — 

"  Journal  of  a  Voyage  to  the  East  Indies,  begun 
30TH  March,  1774. 
"Mr.  Alexander  Mackrabie. 
"  March  2,0th.     Messrs.  Francis  and  Mackrabie  set 
off  from  Duke  Street  Westminster  at  half  past  eight, 
in  a  Postchaise  well  loaded  with  Baggage.     Mack  ob- 
serves that,  at  the  same  hour,  on  the  same  day,  in  the 
year  1773,  ^^  came  into  London  from  America. 

"On  board  the  Ashbvrnham. 

"  April  \st.  The  Innkeepers  of  Portsmouth  seem 
to  have  all  the  Dispositions  in  the  world  to  make  out 


1774]  XTbe  ifrancfs  Xetters  165 

handsome  Bills  for  Messrs.  the  Indian  Councillors  and 
Judges. — At  Breakfast,  Colonel  Monson  pays  a  visit 
to  Mr.  Francis — informs  him  that  General  Clavering 
and  his  Family  are  expected  to  embark  this  morning  ; 
that  he,  (the  Colonel)  with  his  Lady,  propose  going 
on  board  to  dinner ;  and  offers  a  conveyance  at  the 
time  to  Mr.  Francis  and  Mac.  This  morning  is 
employed  in  writing  many  letters,  and  in  purchasing 
several  little  articles. — At  Noon  Mr.  McKenzie  arrives, 
having  travelled  all  night.  He  makes  us  happy  by 
informing  us  that  he  saw  Mrs.  Francis  at  eight  on 
Thursday  evening, — well-  and  Chearful.  At  one 
Colonel  Monson  with  Lady  Anne  and  Captain  Dela- 
duespe,  Messrs.  Francis  and  Mackrabie,  and  a  great 
Train  of  Trunks  and  servants,  go  on  board  a  sailing 
Boat,  which  carries  them  to  Spithead,  and  within  half 
a  mile  of  the  Ship.  But,  both  wind  and  Tide  proving 
contrary,  and  the  Boat  working  very  badly,  they  are 
obliged,  after  a  disagreeable  Struggle  of  two  hours,  to 
return  into  the  Harbour.  We  are  then  all  invited  by 
Captain  Ourry  to  dine  on  board  the  Worcester  a 
sixty-four  Gun  ship,  commanded  by  him.  Lady  Anne 
Monson  and  the  Colonel  accept  this  Invitation  ;  but 
Mr.  Francis  and  Mack  dine  on  shore,  at  the  Navy 
Coffee  House.  Veal  Cutlets,  Pork  Chops,  Mulled 
Wine  and  a  smoaky  Room.  The  Worcester' s  Boat  is 
sent  for  them  at  five, — they  call  for  their  Friends  on 
board  the  ship,  and  the  whole  Company  are  conveyed  to 
the  Commissioner's  Yatch  \sic^,  which  he  has  lent  them 
on  the  occasion. — Macleod  and  Captain  Deladuespe's 
servant  are  missing,  and  left  to  shift  for  themselves. 
The  Yatch  carries  us  through  a  Storm   of  Wind  and 


i66  tCbe  jprancts  Xctters  [1774 

Rain,  while  we  are  covered  with  the  Spray  of  the  Sea, 
and  in  half  an  hour  puts  us  safely  on  board  the 
Ashburnham  at  Spithead.  Being  after  sunset,  the 
Salutes  are  omitted.  Here  we  find  General  Clavering 
with  his  Family — and  all  sick.  The  Confusion  of 
shifting  our  Luggage  in  the  dark  from  the  Yatch  to 
the  Ship  ; — taking  Possession  of  a  crowded  Cabin — 
getting  at  sheets,  quilts  and  Blankets,  and  making  up 
Beds — is  not  to  be  described.  But  we  shall  get  into 
order  in  time — 'Tis  enough  for  the  present  that  we 
can  sleep  and  are  not  sick. 

"  April  2nd.  In  the  morning  we  rise  early,  and  are 
plagued  with  the  everlasting  Macleod  and  his  excuses, 
and  his  List  of  Things  lost  and  missing.  It  is  deter- 
mined at  all  events  that  he  goes  no  more  on  shore. 

"This  morning  the  General,  Colonel  Monson,  and 
Mr.  Francis  write  a  joint  Letter,  informing  the  Court 
of  Directors  of  their  having  embarked  for  their  Voyage 
to  India  on  the  first  of  April.  After  Breakfast, 
Mackrabie  sails  for  Portsmouth,  in  quest  of  Bolsters, 
Pillows,  Brushes,  Hats,  and  a  long  list  of  ects.  and 
returns  in  the  evening  well  stored  with  Necessaries, 
but  without  a  penny  in  his  Pocket.  He  brings  in- 
telligence that  the  Judges  ^  with  their  several  Families 
are  arrived,  and  propose  to  go  on  board  the  Anson  this 
day.     They  do  so,  as  we  learn  by  the  salutes  of  Guns. 

"  April  2,rd.  This  is  Sunday.  We  get  more  into 
order,  the  ladies  appear  at   Breakfast,  and  a  plan  of 

^  Judges  of  the  Supreme  Court,  created  by  the  same  Regulation 
Act  to  which  Francis  owed  his  appointment — Impey,  Hyde, 
Chambers,  and  Lemaistre.  It  seems  to  have  been  thought  advisable 
that  the  two  vessels  should  keep  close  company. 


1774]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  167 

Life  is  formed,  our  Party  being  now  complete. — 
General  Clavering,  Mrs,  Clavering  and  three  Miss 
Claverings,  Col.  Monson  and  Lady  Anne,  Mr.  Francis 
and  Mr.  Mackrabie,  Col.  Thornton,  Capts.  Deladuespe 
and  Webber  and  Mr.  Addison.  These  with  Mr. 
Lowder,  Capt.  Jamieson  and  the  Doctor,  Mr.  Goldie 
are  the  constant  Company  at  Table. 

"To  these  it  is  agreed  that  there  shall  be  added 
at  Dinner  the  officer  of  the  Ship  who  is  upon  Duty, 
and  occasionally,  some  one  of  the  Passengers  who 
are  in  the  Second  Mess. 

"  Our  regulations  are  as  follows: — Breakfast  at  Nine, 
Dine  at  three.  Drink  Tea  at  Six,  Sup  at  Nine,  and 
that  a  warning  Bell  shall  be  rung  half  an  hour  before 
each  Meal.  No  person  except  the  Ladies  may  appear 
at  Table  in  an  undress,  but  it  is  resolved  that  all 
troublesome  Forms  shall  be  banished,  no  Toasts,  nor 
drinking  Healths,  neither  are  there  to  be  any  hot 
Suppers.  Our  Dinner  consists  of  six  Dishes,  besides 
Garden  Stuff  and  two  Soups  which  are  removed  and 
two  more  Substantial  Dishes  set  in  their  Place.  After 
all  this  we  have  Pastry  and  Fruit.  Our  liquors  at 
present  are  Port,  Madeira  and  Sherry — Punch,  Porter 
and  Small  Beer.  We  now  begin  to  get  acquainted 
and  become  sociable,  the  Weather  is  fair,  but  the 
Wind  contrary." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  the  Rev. 
Stephen  Baggs. 

"  Earl  of  Ashburnham,  Spithead, 
"  April  7th. 

"  I  wish  you  could  see  us  assembled  in  the  Evening 
in  our  great  Cabbin.     A  Whist  Table  in  one  Corner, 


i68  XTbe  Francis  Xetters  [1774 

one  at  Loo  in  another,  with  little  detached  parties  at 
Chess  or  Back  Gammon,  besides  the  Accompaniment 
of  a  Piano  Forte  and  Violin.  This  agreeable  Confusion 
though  not  unpleasant  altogether  I  find  highly  un- 
profitable, for  amidst  the  Distraction  of  Eyes  and 
Ears,  it  is  impossible  to  avoid  losing  one's  money. 

"  My  Couch  or  rather  Cott  is  a  Vehicle  suspended 
by  Cords  so  near  the  Ceiling  that  I  prove  the  thickness 
of  my  Skull  at  least  once  a  Night  by  endeavouring  to 
sit  upright.  It  is  with  Fear  and  Trembling  that  I 
mount  into  it,  and  I  am  obliged  to  roll  out  horizontally 
upon  all  Occasions.  This  Inconvenience  excepted 
our  Cabbin  is  truly  desirable.  It  is  already  the  Envy 
of  the  whole  Ship.  At  one  End  there  is  a  luxurious 
Sofa  perfectly  calculated  for  Ease  with  a  Window 
close  by  it  for  Refreshment.  Here  we  propose  to 
sit  or  rather  loll,  when  we  get  into  a  warm  Latitude, 
and  pity  the  Sufferings  of  our  Friends  in  other  parts 
of  the  Ship." 

"  April  ()tk.  After  dinner  the  Anchor  is  heaved  and 
we  set  in  the  Ship  nearer  to  the  Isle  of  Wight. 
Afterward  let  go  the  Anchor  again  and  lay  off 
St.  Helens. 

"  April  loth,  Sunday.  A  delightful  day  and  Smooth 
Water.  After  Breakfast  General  Clavering  and  his 
two  elder  daughters  with  Mr.  Francis  and  Captain 
Jamieson  pay  a  visit  on  Board  the  Anson.  In  about 
an  hour  after  their  departure  Capt.  Webber  and  Mr. 
Mackrabie  go  on  Shore  on  the  Isle  of  Wight  and  are 
soon  followed  by  the  Company  above  named  after 
their   Visit.     They   walk   about  upon    the    Island  for 


1774]  Ube  jfrancis  Xctters  169 

near  two  hours,  called  at  the  Priory — a  house  belonging 

to  Mr. very  pleasantly  situated  upon  an  eminence 

within  View  of  St.  Helen's  Road,  Spithead,  and 
Portsmouth.  The  Gentleman  of  the  House  is  not  at 
Home,  but  we  walk  in,  take  a  view  of  the  House  and 
Grounds,  ask  for  Refreshments,  get  sweet  Butter  and 
Bread — after  which  we  return  together  on  Board  the 
Ashburnham  to  Dinner  and  finish  the  day  as  usual. 
N.B.  We  do  not  play  at  Cards  on  Sunday,  but 
the  Party  on  Board  the  Anson  do  and  drink  Healths 
and  Bumper  Toasts  of  all  Sorts. 

'' April  wth.  Still  at  Anchor  off  St.  Helens — but 
perceive  some  fluttering  of  Wind  which  seems  to 
promise  some  Change  to  the  Eastward.  Heave  our 
Anchor  to  see  that  it  is  clear  and  get  everything  in 
proper  Order  for  sailing  ;  this  evening  we  are  all  in 
high  spirits  expecting  our  Departure. 

'*  April  i2tk.  A  fine  Breeze  Springs  up  from  the 
East,  we  heave  the  Anchor  and  get  under  Way  by 
half  past  eight  in  the  Morning. 

"  The  weather  is  clear  and  pleasant  and  the  extra- 
ordinary motion  does  not  disagree  much  with  the 
Company  though  the  Ladies  in  Time  are  obliged  to 
give  way  a  little  to  it. 

"  The  Anson  weighed  Anchor  at  the  same  hour 
with  us  and  follows  at  no  great  distance. 

"April  14M.  At  noon  we  find  that  the  Ship  has 
made  a  Run  since  the  same  hour  yesterday  of  214 
miles.  The  men  hold  out  very  stoutly  but  some 
of  the  Ladies  are  indisposed. 

"  April  \tth.  We  are  at  last  amazingly  fortunate  in 
our  Wind.     Capt.  Jamieson    declares    that    he    never 


I70  TLbc  dfrancts  Xetters  [1774 

had  so  good  an  Outset. — We  have  run  since  noon 
Yesterday  till  Noon  this  Day  151  miles  more  and  all 
in  a  direct  course." 


Meanwhile,    Mrs.    Francis,    in    London,    has    been 
writing  her  first  Journal-letter  to  her  husband : — 

Mrs.  Francis  to  her  Husband. 

"  London, 
"  March  2,0th,  1774. 

"  My  dearest  Love, 

"  According  to  your  desire  I  begin  my 
Journal  which  I  hope  will  be  acceptable  to  you  and 
inform  you  of  all  my  actions  and  proceedings  in  my 
dear  Husband's  absence  and  be  instead  of  Letters.  I 
only  fear  you  may  think  it  too  tedious  and  minute  ; 
however  as  you  my  dear  desired  it  might  be  so,  you 
must  excuse  it,  for  I  am  determined  to  do  in  every 
thing  what  you  would  wish,  was  I  so  happy  as  to  be 
with  you,  or  you  capable  of  seeing  what  I  do.  Then 
to  begin  I  went  to  Mr.  Holden's  from  this  house  with 
a  heavy  heart  indeed,  and  most  completely  miserable  ; 
their  goodness  to  me  in  some  small  degree  lessened 
my  then  great  affliction  and  I  came  home  about  Eleven 
o'clock  to  my  dismal  House,  where  every  thing  that 
was  dear  to  me  was  fled.  I  went  to  Bed  and  had 
a  better  Night  than  I  could  have  expected,  next 
morning  I  got  up  and  found  Mr.  Shuckburgh  come 
to  enquire  after  my  Health,  he  seemed  to  be  in  great 
trouble  for  the  loss  of  so  great  a  Friend  and  sayd  it 
was  really  a  very  great  one  to  him  ;  after  he  went 
came  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler  and  sayd  every  thing 
that  was    kind   and   affectionate  to  me,   in  particular 


1774]  XCbe  jfrancts  Xetters  171 

about  the  Insurance,  was  very  good  and  much  more 
than  I  could  have  even  hoped.  When  they  were 
gone  came  Mr.  and  Mrs.  D'Oyley  and  stay'd  almost 
two  hours  with  me  and  sayd  everything  they  could 
that  was  comfortable  and  affectionate.  I  shewed  them 
your  most  welcome  Letter  I  received  in  the  morning 
by  the  Post  Chaise  Boy,  they  were  much  pleased  at 
your  going  so  far  safe,  it  made  me  very  happy  for  I 
feared  every  thing,  Pistols,  Robbers,  Night,  Fatigue, 
Grief  and  every  other  inconvenience,  however  I  thank 
God  you  have  escaped  them  all.  Mr.  Will  Godfrey 
called  on  me  the  same  morning  and  sent  you  every 
good  wish,  sayd  Mr.  Godfrey  was  out  of  Town  and 
would  be  very  sorry  he  did  not  see  you  before  you  set 
off.  Dr.  Macnamara  and  Mr.  Baggs  call'd  the  same 
morning,  in  the  afternoon  came  Mr.,  Mrs.  and  Miss 
H  olden  to  drink  Tea  and  played  a  Poole  and  penny 
Quadrille,  I  forgot  to  mention  my  Mother  came  about 
One  o'clock  ;  at  Noon  came  Mr.  McKenzie  for  my 
Letter  and  I  gave  it  him  for  you.  I  believe  you  will 
find  it  contains  pretty  much  the  same  as  this,  however 
I  would  begin  from  the  first  and  intend  going  on  with 
my  Journal.  Friday  Morning  Mrs.  Campbell  called. 
Saturday,  April  2nd,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  H olden  came  and 
took  us  in  the  Coach  to  Fulham,  we  found  my  Father 
but  indifferent,  a  very  bad  cold  and  low,  but  thankful 
and  resigned,  the  two  little  girls  better,  Patty  very 
well,  and  the  three  big  Girls  all  well  but  greatly 
afflicted  when  you  were  both  gone,  we  brought  Sally 
to  Town  for  a  few  days  with  us,  we  all  dined  that  day 
and  spent  the  Evening  with  Mrs.  Holden  and  while  I 
was  there  had  another  Letter  brought  me  from  you. 


172  XTbe  jfrancis  Xctters  [1774 

tho*  not  being  wrote  by  your  hand  was  rather  dis- 
appointed, besides  I  had  wrote  you  a  long  letter  and 
enclosed  two  others,  one  for  my  Brother,  the  other 
for  you,  which  I  had  opened  to  know  if  it  was  mere 
Compts  or  Business,  I  believe  it  was  from  Miss 
Fraser,  but  I  hardly  read  it  and  it  was  not  signed,  I 
made  my  apologies  as  well  as  I  could  for  opening  your 
letter  and  hope  you  have  excused  it.  I  sent  the 
Packet  by  the  Portsmouth  Coach  as  my  Brother 
directed  and  in  case  you  were  embarked,  hope  they  will 
return  it.  If  you  have  set  sail  I  pray  to  God  to  vouch- 
safe you  a  happy  and  safe  Voyage  and  every  comfort 
you  can  wish  and  also  to  Bless  me  with  Comfort 
and  an  establishment  of  my  health  and  Spirits. 

''Sunday,  April  2,rd.  My  dear  Boy  came  with  Mr. 
Ribouville  to  see  me,  his  cough  is  better,  he  din'd 
and  spent  the  day  here  and  Mr.  Ribouville  came  for 
him  at  6  in  the  evening. 

"  Wednesday,  6tk.  Went  to  see  Mrs.  Chandler 
who  was  at  home  and  glad  to  see  me.  I  then 
came  home  just  as  Dinner  was  ready  and  before  I 
began  had  the  Pleasure  of  a  Letter  from  my  Dearest 
Philip  which  was  more  happiness  and  satisfaction  to 
me  than  anything  else,  to  hear  that  you  was  perfectly 
well,  was  the  first  real  Joy  I  could  receive  and  I 
thank  God  for  it.  I  wrote  immediately  to  you  at 
Spithead  to  thank  you  for  your  kind  Attention  to 
me  and  to  tell  you  I  am  really  much  better  than  I 
could  expect.  In  the  afternoon  I  sent  for  Mrs. 
Bussy  [Sally,  Dr.  Francis's  old  servant]  to  come 
and  drink  Tea  which  she  did  and  told  me  she  had 
let   her    Lodging   that   day  to  two  Sisters    of  Lady 


1774]  Ubc  ifrancis  Xcttcrs  173 

Harborough,  the  Miss  Caves.  The  poor  soul  desired 
many  kind  and  tender  Wishes  to  you. 

"  Thursday,  ']th.  Mrs.  H olden  and  her  Amiable 
Daughter  called  on  us  and  took  my  Mother,  Sally  and 
I  to  Fulham.  We  left  Sally  at  School  [at  Fulham] 
and  saw  Harriet  very  well,  and  brought  Betsy  home. 
My  Father  was  but  poorly,  very  low  spirited,  tho' 
very  happy  with  a  Letter  he  had  received  from  my 
Brother,  but  he  is  impatient  for  a  fair  Wind,  the  two 
little  girls  are  much  better,  and  always  merry,  they 
make  my  Father  very  happy.  We  all  came  home 
to  Mrs.  Holden's  to  Dinner  and  to  Tea.  Mr.  H olden 
came  and  we  played  a  Poole,  I  played  a  Sans 
Prendre  Vole. 

"  Friday,  2)th.  My  Friends  are  constantly  calling 
on  me,  Mr.  Dear  on  Saturday,  he  sends  every  good 
wish  to  you  and  my  Brother,  as  to  me  I  can't  be  said 
to  be  entirely  parted  from  you  for  I  spend  every 
night  in  my  Sleep  at  least  some  part  of  it  with  you 
and  that  affords  me  great  satisfaction,  notwithstanding 
the  Disappointment  when  I  wake.  I  take  great  care 
of  poor  Tom  the  Cat,  as  he  was  your  Favourite,  that 
is  enough  to  recommend  him.  The  Gentleman  you 
desired  to  call  on  me  did,  on  Thursday  last  who  was 
just  come  from  on  Board  your  Ship  and  though  I 
had  not  the  pleasure  to  see  him  I  was  made  very 
happy  by  hearing  you  and  my  Brother  were  both 
well.  I  wished  for  a  Letter,  or  a  few  lines,  but  was 
contented  without. 

"  Sunday,  lotk.  By  Invitation  Mrs.  Chandler  came 
to  call  on  us  about  three  o'Clock  and  brought 
little    Philip   with    her,  who    she    had    been    so   kind 


174  TCbe  jfrancts  Xettcrs  [1774 

as  to  call  for.  We  all  went  together  to  her  House 
to  dine  where  we  spent  a  most  agreeable  Day 
and  she  brought  us  home  again,  our  dear  Son 
behaved  most  wonderfully,  he  danced  a  Hornpipe, 
he  sung,  he  talked  and  did  every  thing  he  could  to 
make  himself  agreeable  and  I  believe  he  succeeded, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler  seem'd  quite  delighted  with 
him.  Mr.  C.  made  him  quite  acquainted  with  the 
Dog  and  he  was  so  well  reconcil'd  to  him  as  to 
lay  down  with  the  Dog's  foot  like  a  hand  over  his 
shoulder.  Nothing  can  behave  with  more  kindness 
than  they  both  do  to  me.  Betsy  behaved  like  a 
Woman  and  my  Mother  was  quite  happy.  When 
we  got  home  judge  of  my  Happiness  to  receive  a 
Letter  sent  me  by  Mr.  Strachey  from  my  dearest 
Philip,  a  thousand  thanks  to  you  my  dearest  Love 
for  it  and  also  my  dear  Mac  for  his  most  entertaining 
Letter.  I  have  not  time  at  present  or  I  would  write 
to  him,  but  will  by  some  other  Opportunity.  .  .  . 
I  have  read  your  most  affectionate  Letter  so  often 
that  I  believe  I  have  almost  got  it  by  heart.  Can 
any  Pleasure  be  greater  than  receiving  a  Letter  from 
those  we  truly  love,  indeed  it  puts  me  in  such  great 
spirits  that  in  a  manner  it  makes  me  happy,  tho' 
sometimes  I  am  very  low  and  cannot  help  it,  but 
then  I  rouse  myself  and  endeavour  not  to  think, 
however  I  ought  to  be  happy  and  thankful  for  such 
Friends  as  I  have. 

"  Tuesday,  12th.  Came  Mrs.  D'Oyly  good  soul. 
She  is  always  cheerful  and  happy,  he  was  gone 
out  of  Town,  much  they  long  to  hear  you  are 
sailed,  sure  you  must  be  long  before  now.     I  should 


1774]  Xlbe  iprancis  Xetters  175 

have  writ  you  a  long  letter  before  now,  but  that 
they  told  me  the  Wind  has  been  fair  since  Friday 
last,  I  pray  God  grant  it  may  be  so  and  that 
you  may  be  going  on  finely  now.  Monday  after- 
noon which  was  yesterday  Mrs.  and  Miss  Holden 
came  for  me  to  go  with  them  to  see  Mrs.  Chitty, 
I  told  them  what  you  said  to  them,  my  dear  Polly 
and  her  good  Mother  were  both  much  pleased  and 
rejoiced  at  your's  and  my  Brother's  good  health. 
Worthy  Mrs.  Chitty  cryed  with  Joy  when  she  saw 
me,  for  she  dreaded  it,  however  I  can  assure  you 
I  behave  as  well  as  I  can  and  surprise  every  one, 
Mrs.  Chitty  and  Harriet  were  happy  to  hear  such 
good  accounts  of  you  both.  These  good  people 
brought  me  home  again  and  are  to  dine  with  me 
on  Thursday  and  carry  us  to  Fulham  on  Fryday. 

"  Last  night  Mr.  Chandler  was  so  good  as  to  send 
me  the  Letter  you  wrote  to  him,  some  part  of  which 
he  was  sure  would  make  me  very  happy  and  not 
a  little  vain  to  hear  that  the  most  amiable,  most 
worthy  and  most  dear  of  all  the  World  to  me  should 
speak  so  kindly  of  me  to  a  Person  whose  Opinion  is 
of  great  Consequence  to  me. 

"  My  Brother's  Letter  was  very  entertaining  and 
I  am  much  obliged  to  him  for  it.  Your  way  of  Life 
must  be  very  Agreeable.  I  hope  it  will  continue  so 
and  that  you  won't  be  at  all  sick,  I  was  extremely 
sorry  to  find  by  Mr.  Chandler's  Letter  that  Captain 
Jamieson  had  been  ill,  I  hope  he  is  quite  recovered. 
I  have  just  now  received  another  most  acceptable 
Letter  and  I  thank  you  a  thousand  times  my  dearest 


176  Ubc  f rands  Xctters  [1774 

Philip  for  it  dated  St.  Helens,  loth  April,  'tis  gaining 
but  little  ground,  however  I  trust  in  God  by  this 
time  you  are  got  ofif.  Your  kind  Letter  has  served 
by  way  of  Dinner,  for  it  is  meat,  drink  and  Clothes 
to  me,  and  now  the  chief  Happiness  I  can  enjoy. 

"  I  don't  know  of  any  more  to  add  but  my  Mother's 
Betsey's  and  my  own  best  Love,  Blessing  and  Every 
good  wish  to  attend  you  both  and  I  pray  God  grant 
you  all  a  Happy  and  Safe  Voyage  and  soon,  and 
believe  me  my  dearest  Philip  ever  your  most  dutiful 
"  and  affectionate  Wife, 

"  Elizabeth  Francis." 


Alexander  Mackrabie's    Diary. 

''April  2ist.  At  sunset  the  Island  of  Madeira  is 
distant  3  or  4  miles.  We  have  thick  cloudy  weather 
with  some  drisling  rain  and  little  Wind  so  that  we 
cannot  get  ashore  this  night.  About  10  are  off  the 
Harbour,  fire  a  gun  for  a  Pilot  and  at  eleven  anchor 
in  22  Feet  in  Fonchal  Road. 

"  April  22nd.  This  is  Friday  morning,  and  we  have 
now  been  three  weeks  on  board  and  10  days  under 
sail.  Between  six  and  seven  in  the  morning  our  ship 
and  the  Anson  salute  the  Fort  with  nine  guns  which 
the  Fort  called  the  Loo  returns.  Before  we  assemble 
to  breakfast  we  receive  visits  from  the  shore. 

•'  Friday,  April  22nd.  Our  party  are  scattered  all 
over  the  place.  Genl.  Clavering  and  the  ladies  of  his 
Family  lodge  at  Mr.  Ferguson's.  The  Judges  are 
there   too,    and   sufficiently   crowded.       Mr.    Francis, 


1774]  ^be  jfrancts  Xetters  177 

Col.  Thornton,  Capt.  Webber  and  Mack  take  up  their 
quarters  at  Mr.  Deniers.  Our  Apartments  are  of 
all  others  the  most  convenient,  and  our  stile  of  Life 
most  comfortable." 


Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Alexander  Duncan,  Esq. 

"  Madeira, 
''April  2^th,   1774. 

"...  You  are  to  know  that  the  Vessel  is  an  East 

Indiaman  hired  as  a  Transport  by  Government  for 

this    purpose    and    navigated    by    a   Captain    in    the 

Company's  employ,    under    the  direction  of  a    First 

Lieutenant  in  the  Navy,  so  that  we  carry  a  Pennant 

&c.,  and  receive  salutes,  like  a  King's  Ship." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  his  Father. 

"  Madeira, 
"Ap.,  1774. 

"  Dear  &  Honoured  Sir, 

"...  We  observe  all  the  Forms  in  our 
Salutes  &c.,  and  the  Firing  of  Great  Guns  agrees 
perfectly  with  my  Nerves.  This  is  a  Season  of  great 
Festivity  at  Madeira.  On  Saturday  there  were 
Illuminations  and  Fireworks,  Concerts  upon  the  Water 
and  Processions  on  the  Land  in  Honour  of  St.  George, 
and  some  other  of  the  Holy  Brotherhood.  On  Sunday 
the  Churches  were  decked  in  their  richest  furniture, 
extraordinary  Masses  were  performed  with  full  bands 
of  Music,  and  the  streets  filled  all  the  afternoon  with 
Crowds  of  People  in  Masquerade  ;  which  altogether 
afforded  high  entertainment  to  our  young  Ladies  who 
never  had  an  Opportunity  before  of  seeing  anything 
of  the   Kind.     We  went  the  round  of  the  Places  of 

12 


178  TTbc  jfrancis  Xettcrs  [1774 

Devotion,  but  were  no  Gainers  by  it,  having  lost  some 
Handkerchiefs  in  the  course  of  our  circuit.  It  seems 
they  make  no  scruple  of  picking  the  Pockets  of 
Heretics,  even  in  Church.  .  .  .  We  live  so  luxuriously 
here  that  it  is  very  necessary  for  us  to  take  exercise 
in  order  to  obtain  Digestion.  Now  there  are  no 
means  of  obtaining  this  except  by  riding — our  shoes 
and  feet  were  worn  out  in  the  first  2  Days.  It  is 
the  same  thing  whether  you  mount  a  Horse,  Ass,  or 
Mule  in  Madeira.  They  are  at  the  same  Price,  and 
of  the  same  size  and  pretty  near  the  same  form  ; 
but  all  furnished  with  Peaked  Saddles,  and  large 
Bits.  They  are  wonderful  Animals,  being  surefooted 
as  Goats,  and  scramble  over  vast  rocks  without  the 
smallest  Danger.  Upon  any  Occasion  when  our 
Ladies  have  gone  out  of  Town,  they  are  conveyed  in 
Hammocks  suspended  between  Poles  and  carried  by 
a  Couple  of  Negroes.  This  mode  of  conveyance  is 
truly  laughable  and  serves  to  give  them  a  Foretaste 
of  Palanquins.  You  are  thoroughly  acquainted  with 
all  our  Party,  at  least  by  Name ;  but  there  is  no 
describing  the  goodness  of  their  Qualities.  Wellbred, 
easy,  goodhumoured,  and  I  know  you  have  no  dislike 
to  our  Fair  Companions  on  account  of  their  being  hand- 
some. The  two  ships  carry  a  vast  cargo  of  Beauty. 
The  judges' Ladies  are  all  lovely.  We  excite  the  Envy 
and  Admiration  of  all  the  Natives  of  the  Isle." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  John  Kirkman. 

"  Madeira, 
"26/A  April,  \llit. 

"...  Our  Provisions  on  Board  are  so  good  and  in 
such  plenty,  and  our  Table  so  well  served  that  we 


1774]  Ubc  jfrancis  Xetters  179 

had  nothing  to  wish  for  except  fresh  Vegetables  and 
this  we  find  here  in  the  utmost  perfection,  Sallads, 
Pease,  Fruits  &c.,  and  we  have  made  such  Con- 
sumption of  Roses  and  Myrtle  to  present  in  Bouquets, 
that  I  fear  not  a  Saint,  nor  even  the  Virgin  herself 
will  be  decked  with  a  single  Garland  till  the  time 
we  cross  the  Line.  .  .  .  We  hire  Horses  by  the  Day, 
pay  2/9  which  Price  if  you  consider  the  size  of  the 
Beast  which  does  not  exceed  that  of  a  3  months' 
calf  might  appear  exorbitant,  but  we  have  another 
animal  who  goes  upon  2  legs  into  the  Bargain.  No 
Cavalier  travels  here  without  his  Squire,  and  these 
are  peculiarly  useful.  This  attendant  is  of  great  use 
on  the  Brink  of  a  Precipice  where  he  lets  the  Horse 
gradually  down  by  the  Tail.     This  is  Fact." 


Alexander  Mackrabie's  Diary  Continued. 

"  Madeira. 

"  April  2/^tk  to  May  ist.  In  less  than  a  week  we 
are  thoroughly  tired  and  grow  impatient  to  get  on 
board.  Sunday  is  fixed  for  our  Embarkation.  In  the 
meantime  we  dispatch  voluminous  letters  to  our  friends 
in  England.  .  .  .  How  are  the  mighty  fallen !  The 
Maidstone  Frigate  arrives,  commanded  by  Capt. 
Gardner,  who  makes  us  take  down  our  Pennants — 
and  sinks  us  into  humble  Transports,  and  we  are 
foolish  enough  to  be  vexed  on  the  Occasion. 

"  Sunday.  Everything  is  ready  on  board,  we 
embrace  our  Host  and  Hostess  ;  and  embark  in  the 
evening,  attended  by  half  the  Factory.  The  Judges 
and  their  Ladies  do  us  the  Honour  to  drink   Tea  on 


i8o  Ttbc  jfrancis  Xetters  [1774 

board  the  Ashburnham.  We  observe  that  the  Com- 
mission with  the  great  seal  constantly  attends  them. 
The  Chief  Judge  has  stole  a  march  upon  the  Gentle- 
men of  the  Council  in  point  of  Precedence — a  mark  of 
Distinction  which  takes  from  the  dignity  of  the  latter, 
without  doing  any  credit  in  my  opinion  to  the  other 
honourable  gentlemen.  Our  friends  from  the  Anson 
staid  till  dark  ;  immediately  after  their  departure  we 
set  sail  and  at  sunrise  next  morning  Madeira  was 
about  twenty  miles  behind  us. 

"On  Board  the  Ashburnham. 

''May  ■}i'^d.  At  noon  we  discover  the  Pyk  of 
Teneriffe  distant  about  20  leagues.  Its  summit  is 
always  in  sight,  covered  with  snow  and  towering  above 
the  Clouds. 

"  Sunday,  i  ^th.  We  are  in  top  spirits — all  humming 
French  Tunes  or  repeating  scraps  of  Dutch  stories. 
Judge  Lemaitre  kept  the  table  on  a  roar  for  several 
hours  yesterday.  His  brother  Hyde  maintained  his 
Dignity  with  a  proper  degree  of  Silence. 

"  \ttth  to  2\st.  We  are  everything  less  than  be- 
calmed. Room  for  Meditation ;  but  still  preserve 
both  our  Health  and  Good-humour,  either  of  which 
we  are  unable  to  account  for. 

"Southern  Hemisphere, 
''June,  1774. 

"  \th.  This  is  the  King's  Birthday.  We  put  on 
our  best  coats  and  drink  his  health  in  a  Bumper, 
which  is  thought  a  very  proper  and  becoming  Measure. 
A  sailor  does  the  same,  and  doubtless  from  as  good  a 
motive  ;  but  his  loyalty  getting  the  better  of  his  Dis- 
cretion, he  passes  the  Evening  on  the  Poop  in  irons. 


KING    GEORGE    III. 


To  face  page  i8o.] 


1774]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  iSi 

"  1 8/^.  This  proves  a  tremendous  day.  The  Sea 
runs  mountains  high.  A  vast  body  of  Water  breaks 
into  our  Cabbin  and  carries  everything  before  it.  We 
are  set  afloat.  The  Table,  a  Washing  stand  and 
many  other  things  are  totally  destroyed,  and  a  fatal 
wave  carries  ofl"  the  silver  Basin.  Perhaps  it  is 
destined  to  a  nobler  service,  and  at  this  instant 
decorates  the  sideboard  of  Neptune.  Bad  as  the  day 
is,  we  contrive  to  get  a  good  Dinner  in  the  round 
House,  a  comfort  which  we  have  not  failed  of  since 
we  came  on  board. 

"  30M.  No  remarkable  occurrence  during  the 
remainder  of  this  month.  We  begin  to  apprehend 
that  our  Impatience  has  outrun  the  Ship,  as  by  most 
of  the  reckonings  we  should  have  been  in  view  of 
the  Cape  by  the  30th. 

''July  2nd.  We  do  not  see  it,  the  Cape,  till  the 
second  of  July  about  one  in  the  Afternoon,  after  which 
we  speak  a  French  East  India  ship,  the  Duke  de 
Duros,  bound  to  Table  Bay. 

"  Sunday,  T^rd.  The  wind  is  very  unfavourable 
which  obliges  us  to  be  constantly  tacking  ;  but  after 
all  our  difficulties  we  come  safely  to  an  Anchor  in 
Symond's  Bay  about  midnight. 

''July  dfth.  'Tis  my  first  night  on  shore  for  above 
two  months,  and  I  could  not  close  my  eyes.  What  a 
ridiculous  bustle.  Twenty  chaises  would  have  been 
despatched  in  the  smallest  village  upon  any  Post  Road 
in  England  without  half  the  confusion  which  3  or  4 
coaches  occasion  in  this  cursed  place,  and  yet  here 
is  a  fat  Dutch  Fellow  driving  about  with  a  muster  Roll 
in  his  hand,  who  I  suppose  represents  the  Postmaster- 


i82  Ubc  iprancis  Xetters  [1774 

General.  Soon  after  nine  we  begin  to  move.  One 
of  the  General's  coaches  sticks  fast  in  a  hollow  way  at 
the  Town  End,  Lady  Anne's  breaks  down  upon  the 
sands.     The  Horses  are  all  weak  and  restive. 

"  The  latter  part  of  our  day's  journey  proves  far 
pleasanter  than  the  first.  The  weather,  the  roads,  the 
country  all  mend  upon  us.  At  the  Halfway  House 
we  find  Cold  Meat  and  Wine  provided  as  we  are 
informed  by  the  Governor.  This  refreshment  enables 
us  to  proceed  to  the  Cape  Town.  We  lodge  with 
Mrs.  Vanderdip  who  feeds  us  profusely  but  at  most 
unchristian  hours.  Nothing  can  be  colder  or  more 
comfortless  than  a  Dutch  House  in  Winter,  which 
season  now  prevails  in  all  its  Horrors  at  the  Cape 
of  Good  Hope. 

"  Sunday,  July  lotk.  The  first  day  of  the  week 
passes  as  heavily  in  the  Southern  as  in  the  Northern 
Hemisphere.  We  have  read  and  walked  away  the 
morning.  D.  Goldie  and  Young  Mackie  dine  with  us, 
after  which  we  piously  resolve  to  go  to  Prayers.  The 
order  of  things  is  strangely  inverted  here.  We  go  to 
Church  !  to  avoid  sleeping.  A  Dutch  Priest  wears  a 
long  Black  wig,  and  I  observe  that  sprinkling  is  the 
only  part  of  our  Ceremony  used  in  Baptism.  The 
sign   of  the  Cross  is  cautiously  avoided. 

"  Two  couples  were  married.  One  of  the  Bride- 
grooms was  dressed  in  a  Black  silk  coat  and  breeches 
and  a  Black  wig.  He  had  indeed  a  waistcoat  of  white 
sattin  and  white  gloves.  One  Bride  was  dressed 
intirely  in  Black,  the  other  as  white  as  snow.  God- 
fathers and  Godmothers  all  wear  black.  What  can 
be  the  meaning  of  all  this  ? 


1774]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  183 

"  Monday  morning,  July  iitk,  and  who  the  Plague 
is  that  Man  in  a  scarlet  coat  going  through  the  streets 
with  a  green  Velvet  Bag  with  silk  Tassels  under  his 
Arm  ?  Mr.  Stahl  informs  me  he  is  a  Barber.  I  took 
him  for  the  Governor's  Secretary.  By  the  bye  the 
Governor  himself  paid  a  visit  of  ceremony  yesterday 
morning  to  General  Clavering,  and  came  in  half  Boots. 
Madme.  la  Gouvernante  had  a  small  pink  Hat  upon 
one  side  of  her  Head  like  that  of  an  Opera  Dancer. 
We  dine  with  Judge  Lemaitre  at  Jamieson's  Lodgings, 
who  during  the  Hour  of  Dinner  is  in  a  strange  way, 
robbed  of  a  pair  of  Point  Ruffles  worth  Ten  Guineas. 
He  thinks  it  is  some  Joke. 

"  Tuesday,  July  i2tk.  The  Lieutenant  Governor 
Mons.  Henry  gave  a  Ball  and  Supper  last  night, 
which  was  handsome  and  well  conducted.  He  is  a 
very  hearty  obliging  old  Man.  We  begin  now  to 
think  of  our  Departure,  but  are  much  delayed  by 
the  difficulty  of  getting  our  provisions  conveyed  to 
False  Bay. 

"  Wednesday,  I'^th.  We  have  now  seen  everything 
in  or  about  the  Town.  The  Fortifications  are  ex- 
tensive, but  in  a  poor  Stile  of  Defence.  The  Garrison 
consists  of  700  Men,  who  make  a  good  appearance, 
besides  whom  they  have  a  militia  of  Burghers.  Every 
man  here  is  a  soldier.  Their  public  Buildings  are 
large  and  commodious.  Here  is  a  House  of  Employ- 
ment, in  which  600  slaves  belonging  to  the  Company 
are  maintained,  but  it  affords  a  wretched  sample  of 
Dutch  Police.  They  are  employed  in  dragging 
burthens  like  beasts,  and  are  oftentimes  hired  out  to 
work  for   other   people.     The   Company's  Garden  is 


i84  XCbe  3Pranct5  Xctters  [1774 

large,  but  badly  kept  up.  We  admire  the  Breed  of 
Horses,  which  are  handsome  and  active,  but  badly 
treated  and  worse  fed. 

"  The  Government  of  the  Cape  is  esteemed  very 
profitable  but  it  is  not  easy  to  ascertain  the  Income, 
as  it  depends  greatly  upon  Privileges  in  Trade,  and 
the  right  of  supplying  Provisions  to  ships  which  put 
in  here." 


Alexander  Mackrabie  to  his  Father. 

"  Symonds  Bay,  Cape  of  Good  Hope, 
"  14  July,  1774- 

•'  Dear  and  Honoured  Sir, 

"In  case  the  Danish  Ship  bound  from 
Madeira  to  Lisbon  has  by  chance  foundered  at  Sea, 
the  accident  must  have  proved  fatal  to  a  vast  cargo  of 
letters.  If  good  wishes  could  carry  her  safe  into  port, 
she  has  mine  most  heartily.  I  know  not  what  nation 
we  may  be  indebted  to  for  conveyance  of  the  present. 
It  is  the  dead  of  Winter  in  this  Hemisphere,  and  ot 
consequence  few  ships  are  driven  hither  except  by 
Necessity.  Providence  has  thus  far  favoured  us  so 
constantly  with  smiles,  that  I  am  willing  to  flatter 
myself  we  are  reserved  for  great  and  good  purposes. 
Fair  winds  and  fair  weather  have  almost  constantly 
attended  us ;  and  no  one  cross  accident  has  yet 
intervened  to  deprive  us  of  any  comforts  the  Ocean 
can  afford.  Even  a  sailor  who  fell  overboard,  and 
who  I  am  convinced  could  not  have  been  recovered 
on  board  any  other  ship  is  still  numbered  among  our 
crew,  and  I  daresay  lives  in  hopes  of  a  drier  death. 


1774]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetterg  185 

"...  As  the  Settlement  here  consists  only  of  2  or  3 
families  and  storehouses,  an  Hospital  and  other  Public 
Buildings  belonging  to  the  Dutch  Co.,  and  is  besides 
the  most  barren  dismal  spot  I  ever  beheld,  you  may 
conceive  we  staid  no  longer  time  than  was  necessary 
to  procure  Horses  and  Carriages  to  convey  us  to  the 
Cape  Town.  The  Governor  sent  his  coach  drawn  by 
8  Horses  for  General  Clavering's  Family,  Lady  Anne 
Monson  went  in  another  with  6,  Col.  Monson,  Mr. 
Francis,  and  I  rode  on  Horseback.  The  first 
observation  I  made  upon  the  Country  and  its  Roads 
was  that  the  English  who  first  attempted  a  Settlement 
at  the  Cape  did  very  wisely  in  giving  it  up.  Nothing 
but  the  cold  Phlegm  of  a  Dutchman  could  have  been 
equal  to  the  trial.  The  indefatigable  Industry  of  that 
Nation  has  fertilised  Rocks  and  transformed  a  Swamp 
into  a  beautiful  City  and  Fortifications.  But  the 
Hogan  Mogan  prevails  in  every  thing.  We  dine  at 
one,  sleep  in  a  Chamber  as  large  and  cold  as  a  church, 
paved  with  Tiles,  and  there  is  not  a  Fireplace  in  the 
whole  Town.  Tradesmen  of  every  rank  cheat  us 
egregiously.  We  were  forced  to  pay  upwards  of  45/- 
yesterday  for  2  Horses  to  bring  us  25  miles,  and 
14  Dollars  for  a  Waggon  not  bigger  than  a  Higgler's 
cart,  and  at  last  after  coming  above  a  Mile  the  Driver 
turned  back  to  Town  and  refused  to  proceed  because 
he  thought  our  Trunks  were  too  heavy — There  was 
no  Redress  but  to  soothe  him  with  2  Dollars  extra- 
ordinary, I  have  indeed  given  you  the  darkest  side 
of  the  Picture.  I  must  do  so  much  justice  to  the 
Gov',  and  several  of  the  principal  inhabitants  as  to 
declare  that  they  have  entertained  us    nobly.     Balls, 


i86  tCbc  jf rands  Xctters  [1774 

Concerts,  Suppers  in  the  most  splendid  and  sumptuous 
manner.  I  wonder  how  they  come  by  so  much  taste 
or  where  in  this  country  they  find  materials  to  display 
it.  It  were  also  brutal  in  me  not  to  acknowledge  that 
our  Hostess  is  one  of  the  best  women  I  ever  met 
with ;  but  first  I  must  inform  you  of  a  very  extra- 
ordinary Practice  at  the  Cape.  There  is  no  such  thing 
as  an  Inn  or  a  Tavern  ;  but  all  the  Inhabitants  of  the 
City  even  the  greatest  and  richest  admit  strangers  into 
their  House  to  lodge  and  board.  You  choose  your 
Room,  change  your  Wine,  bespeak  extraordinary 
Dishes,  in  short  do  whatever  you  please  except 
making  them  light  a  Fire  or  alter  the  hour  of  their 
Meals.  They  give  you  a  good  Bed  and  Breakfast,  a 
plentiful  Dinner  at  noon.  Tea  at  four  and  a  profusion 
of  good  things  for  supper  at  eight — and  all  this,  wine 
included,  of  which  you  may  drink  till  you  burst,  for  a 
crown  sterling,  which  is  the  Price  established  through- 
out the  Place  per  day.  The  meanest  Family  never 
have  fewer  than  6  Dishes  besides  a  dessert.  Vege- 
tables are  in  vast  abundance  and  of  an  infinite  Variety 
even  now  in  the  Depth  of  winter,  Oranges  are  in 
season  all  the  year,  besides  dried  Grapes,  Figs, 
Walnuts,  and  others  you  know  nothing  of  Fish  in 
great  plenty,  mutton,  venison,  wildfowl  &c.,  &c. 
They  have  plenty  of  Wine  of  their  own  Growth  and 
the  Vineyards  greatly  exceed  my  expectation.  We 
find  the  liquor  they  yield  to  be  small  but  of  a  very 
pleasant  flavour.  The  wine  called  Constantia  is  the 
produce  of  a  particular  spot,  a  single  Vineyard.  We 
have  been  there  but  cannot  get  a  drop  to  buy.  The 
face   of  the    Country  near  the  Sea  is  totally  barren. 


1774]  Ube  jprancis  ^Letters  187 

but  the  interior  parts  I  am  told  are  rich  and  produce 
grain  and  cattle  in  Abundance. 

"  I  have  been  this  afternoon  in  Company  with  a 
person  who  is  a  great  Botanist  and  was  sent  out  by 
our  King  for  the  purpose  of  collecting  plants.  He 
has  travelled  a  vast  distance  up  the  country  and 
assures  me  that  the  Dutch  have  farms  near  1000  miles 
back.  To  meet  with  such  a  Man  is  extraordinary 
enough ;  but  I  have  seen  innumerable  curiosities 
besides  in  the  course  of  the  last  Week.  Zebras, 
Ostriches,  Wild  Boars,  Buffaloes,  Cassowaries,  Seals, 
Penguins  &c.,  &c.,  nay  more,  I  have  actually  beheld 
a  Hottentot  Man  and  Woman,  with  their  Mantles  of 
Sheepskin,  and  Bands  round  their  Legs  and  Arms 
which  had  as  much  the  Appearance  of  Sheep's  Guts 
as  of  anything  else. 

"  .  .  .  In  writing  to  my  father  I  mean  it  shall  be  always 
understood  that  I  address  the  whole  Family ;  I  shall 
therefore  only  say  to  you  my  good  mother  in  particular 
that  I  wish  I  could  convey  you  a  Dutch  stove  to 
warm  your  feet !  'Tis  a  comfortable  contrivance. 
Mine  are  almost  chilled.  God  bless  you  and  keep 
you  from  Rheumatisms,  and  you  my  dear  cousin  Patty 
from  Asthmas  and  you  my  dearest  Sister  and  sweet 
Girls  and  Boy  from  every  Vexation  which  can  pain 
your  honest  hearts.  Health  and  Happiness  to 
you  all. 

"  Farewell,  I  am  with  constant  affection,  yours 
and  yours, 

"A.  M. 

"  Mr.  Francis  swears  that  he  has  seen  nothing  upon 
the  Coast  of  Africa  so  extraordinary  as  himself." 


i88  XTbc  3f rands  Xetters  [1774 

From  Philip  Francis,  at  the  End  of  the 

Foregoing. 
"  Dear  Sir, 

"  I  join  heartily  in  everything  that  your  Son 
has  been  saying  to  you,  and  make  it  my  Request  that 
you  and  good  Mrs.  M.,  and  honest  Patience  may  live 
as  long  as  you  possibly  can. 

'•  Yours  faithfully, 

"  P.  Francis." 


Alexander  Mackrabie's  Diary  Continued. 

''July  lytk.  Everything  disposed  for  sailing  in  the 
morning." 

''  Friday,  July  igth.  At  8  in  the  morning  see  the 
Island  Joanna,^  do  not  come  to  an  Anchor  till  about 
10  at  night  in  an  open  Road  distant  half  a  mile  from 
the  Shore.  As  we  approach  the  Island  the  wreck  of 
a  large  ship  attracts  our  attention,  we  send  off  a  boat 
and  find  it  to  be  an  East  India  Ship,  the  Huntingdon, 
Capt.  Pigou,  upon  a  trading  voyage  from  Madras  to 
Mosambique  and  Madagascar.  She  was  wrecked  in 
April  last.  All  the  people,  including  a  valuable  Cargo 
of  Slaves  were  saved  as  well  as  great  part  of  her 
stores.  Capt.  Pigou  speaks  highly  of  the  Care  and 
attention  shewn  by  the  King  of  Joanna  and  his 
subjects,  who  have  rendered  him  every  possible 
service  on  this  occasion.  This  gentleman  has  taken 
his  passage  in  the  Anson  to  Madras. 

'  Johanna  Island,  the  most  frequented  of  the  Comoro  Group, 
between  Madagascar  and  Mosambique. 


1774]  Ubc  francis  Xetters  189 

''July  20th.  Abb6  Renal  speaking  of  this  Island 
says — '  It  is  there  that  Nature  in  an  extent  of  30 
Leagues  Circumference  has  displayed  all  her  Riches 
with  all  her  simplicity.  Hills  ever-green  and  vallies 
ever  fertile  there  form  the  greatest  variety  of  beautiful 
landskips.  30,000  Inhabitants  distributed  through  73 
villages,  share  in  its  rich  Productions.  The  Language 
of  Joanna  is  Arabic,  and  the  Religion  that  of  Mahomet, 
but  very  much  corrupted.  In  this  Island  we  find 
Principles  of  a  purer  Morality  than  are  generally 
met  with  in  this  quarter  of  the  Globe.  As  milk  and 
vegetables  are  the  chief  food,  and  the  mildness  of  the 
climate  renders  cloathing  unnecessary  for  the  People, 
they  have  acquired  an  insurmountable  aversion  to 
labour.  From  this  indolence  arises  an  air  of  dignity 
which  distinguishes  all  the  superior  class.  They  let 
their  nails  grow  to  a  vast  length  and  tinge  them  with 
the  juice  of  a  shrub.  Here  the  English  refresh  their 
ships  in  the  utmost  security,  here  they  land  their  sick, 
whom  the  pure  air,  delicious  fruits  and  vegetables  and 
excellent  water  speedily  restore  to  health.  Bullocks, 
Goats,  Poultry,  Cocoa  nuts  and  every  other  Production 
of  the  Island  were  formerly  given  in  exchange  for 
Beads  and  other  toys,  but  now  a  price  (though  a 
very  moderate  one)  is  demanded  in  silver.' 

"  With  all  possible  respect  for  the  opinions  of 
Monsr.  Renal,  I  humbly  apprehend  that  the  merits 
of  the  c^ood  people  of  Joanna  have  been  much  ex- 
aggerated by  those  persons  who  have  made  this 
worthy  Abb6  acquainted  with  them.  We  find 
Indolence  indeed  but  without  Dignity. 

"  This    Island  which    is  situated  44  Degs.  east  of 


19©  Zbc  jfrancis  Xcttcrs  [1774 

London  lies  also  in  the  12th  degree  of  Southern 
Latitude,  so  that  it  may  be  supposed  we  had  no 
occasion  for  stoves.  The  Inhabitants  find  as  little 
use  for  either  cloaths  or  Beds,  as  they  have  means 
of  procuring  them.  We  dined  with  one  of  the 
Principal  men  of  the  place,  who  called  us  his  Brethren, 
and  treated  us  in  a  family  Way,  that  is  he  gave  us 
a  very  bad  dinner  and  expected  to  be  paid  for  it. 
The  women  of  Joanna  shave  their  heads  close,  pull 
their  ears  down  to  their  shoulders,  and  wear  Rings 
in  their  Noses.  The  Men  paint  their  teeth  black, 
and  their  nails  red,  so  that  both  sexes,  in  point  of 
beauty,  are  almost  as  much  indebted  to  Art  as  they 
are  to  Nature.  I  had  forgot  to  mention  that  they 
are  negroes. 

•*  Considering  the  Use  and  Convenience  of  this 
Island,  I  wonder  that  the  English  with  their  present 
Ideas  of  distributive  Justice,  should  have  left  it  so 
long  in  the  Hands  of  the  original  Owners.  We  are 
not  subject  to  such  mistakes.  Our  Notions  concerning 
the  rights  of  Property  improve  every  day.  In  our 
transactions  with  the  Inhabitants,  (who  by  the  bye 
are  as  well  disposed  to  roguery  as  if  they  had  had 
all  the  Advantages  of  Education)  we  so  far  departed 
from  our  Principles,  as  to  pay  honestly  for  everything 
we  received.  In  two  days  we  had  Bullocks  and 
Poultry  enough  to  stock  a  moderate  Farm,  and  took 
our  leave  of  Joanna,  not  a  little  edified  by  the  ob- 
servations we  had  made  upon  human  Nature  in  its 
primitive  state  of  simplicity. 

"  August  22>th,  Sunday.  We  have  Prayers  and 
Sermon    on    Deck   for   the  Edification  of  the   ship's 


1774]  XI;be  jfrancis  Xetters  191 

Company,  who  daily  enjoy  more  of  the  good  things 
of  this  life  than  they  have  been  accustomed  to. 
Among  the  rest,  Grog  and  Fresh  Beef  Twenty- 
eight  Bullocks  were  taken  on  board  at  Joanna.  In 
the  evening  we  cross  the  Line  a  second  time,  and 
now  bear  to  the  Eastward. 

"It  is  not  in  the  power  of  fair  Weather  to  make 
a  long  Voyage  pleasant.  We  are  in  Hysterics  with 
the  bare  Apprehension  of  a  Calm.  People  who  pray 
for  a  long  Life,  have  it  in  their  Power  to  live  as  long 
as  they  think  proper.  They  need  only  go  to  Sea, 
to  turn  seconds  into  centuries.  These*  are  Sunday 
Evening  Reflections." 


Mrs.  Francis's  Journal. 

"  London, 
"April  xt^th,  1774. 

"  My  dearest,  dearest  Philip, 

"  I  finished  my  Journal  on  Wednesday  13th 
and  sent  it  by  Mr.  Collins  ;  Thursday  I  wrote  to  you 
by  Mr.  Fowke  and  on  Friday  by  Mr.  Paxton,  though 
I  had  nothing  new  to  say,  nor  indeed  worth  your 
reading — yet  it  was  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  write 
as   it  seems   like  a  kind  of  conversation  with  you. 

"  To  proceed  with  my  Journal.  Friday  went  to 
Fulham — we  brought  Harriet  to  Town  and  we  dined 
and  spent  the  day  at  Mrs.  Holden's.  I  spent  my 
afternoon  in  writing  to  you  my  dearest  Love  and 
most  beloved  man,  much  do  Polly  and  I  talk  of  you, 
we  never  want  a  subject,  the  dear  Mack  has  his  share. 
Saturday  I  went  to  visit  Mrs.  Eraser,  she  was  in  the 
country.     I   then  went  to  Mrs.  Bristow's  where  I  was 


192  XTbe  frauds  Xettcrs  [1774 

let  in.  Mrs.  Bristow,  Miss  Mary  and  the  beautiful 
Miss  Sophy  were  all  at  home.  Our  conversation  was 
chiefly  voyages,  ships,  sickness.  East  Indies  and  so 
forth,  you  know  already  you  are  no  small  favourite 
with  all  that  family.  They  all  joyn  in  good  wishes 
for  your  health,  success  &c.,  and  desire  many 
compts  &c. 

"  Sunday.  I  went  to  Church  and  did  not  forget 
to  pray  for  all  that  travel  by  sea  or  land,  and  I  pray 
God  of  his  great  goodness  to  protect  all,  but  par- 
ticularly two  that  are  so  dear  to  me.  After  Church 
Mrs.  and  Miss  Holden  came  to  give  me,  Harriet  and 
my  dear  Philip,  who  was  brought  here  this  morning 
by  his  Master,  a  Ride  in  Hyde  Park. 

"  After  tea  Harriet  and  I  walked  home  with  Philip 
and  delivered  him  safe,  I  payd  Mr.  Ribouville  his 
Bill  for  Philip  being  the  first  quarter  and  some  few 
things  besides.  I  told  him  I  should  like  to  pay  the 
quarters  regularly  that  I  might  know  my  expenses  as 
I  go  on.  Monday  afternoon  the  i8th,  Mrs.  and  Miss 
Holden  and  my  mother,  Harriet  and  I  went  to  Mr. 
Ribouville's,  it  was  a  kind  of  Ball,  there  was  a  number 
of  little  girls  and  the  Master  play'd  to  them  and  they 
all  danced  minuets,  cottilions  &c.,  and  our  Harriet 
danced  the  best.  .  .  . 

"Wednesday  afternoon  I  went  to  Mrs.  Harrison's 
to  drink  Tea  and  play  at  cards  till  half  past  nine, 
then  came  home. 

"  Thursday,  2isL  Went  in  the  evening  to  Lady 
Clive's  by  invitation  where  I  was  well  received  and 
taken  much  notice  of  She  is  happy  with  your  letter 
and  takes  the  greatest  care  of  it.     We  had  a  great 


1774]  tlbe  jfrancis  Xetters  193 

deal  of  Company  indeed.  Mr.  Stanly  my  old  Blind 
master  who  played  several  concertos  to  us  and  Miss 
Davis  Inglesina  who  sung  four  fine  songs  and  most 
admirably  well.  I  play'd  a  little  at  Loo  and  won  a 
guinea  and  half  and  came  home  at  half  past  ten. 

"  Sunday,  24/^.  I  went  to  Mrs.  Chandler's  and 
drank  Tea,  we  talked  of  you  my  dear,  and  he  sayd 
to  please  me  I  suppose,  he  imagined  you  were  near 
the  Madeiras,   I  pray  God  it  may  be  so. 

"  Friday,  2()tk.  We  dined  at  Mrs.  Holden's,  spent 
a  most  agreeable  day.  Mr.  H  olden  came  in  the 
evening  and  we  played  at  penny  Quadrille.  Polly 
grows  thin,  she  and  I  indulged  in  a  little  talk  of 
Bath  and  the  many  happy  days  we  have  spent 
together  including  your  company  and  also  dear 
Mack's  and  sometimes  drop  the  tribute  of  a  tear  to 
those  happy  days  past  and  gone.  I  pray  God  He 
may  have  some  as  good  in  store  for  us. 

"On  Sunday  Mr.  Ribouville  and  Mrs.  D'Orville 
and  the  two  Mr.  Godfreys  drank  tea  with  us.  I  think 
Mr.  David  Godfrey  seems  a  little  attached  to  Polly 
[Miss  H olden],  but  the  dear  girl  behaves  as  well 
and  as  properly  as  possible,  he  has  taken  a  very  fine 
House  in  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields  for  a  fourteen  years' 
lease,  that  was  Sir  Thomas  Sewel's,  there  are  two 
together,  with  Octagon  windows  or  panes  of  Glass, 
the  other  was  Sir  Anthony  Abdys,  he  is  to  give 
^^250  per  year. 

"  Monday,  May  <^th.  About  one  o'clock  we  set  out 
in  Mr.  Holden's  coach  for  Twickenham  where  after  a 
very  fine  ride  we  arrived  about  four,  and  found  Mr. 

13 


194  Ube  iprancis  Xettcrs  [1774 

Holden,  who  came  on  horseback,  that  Collins  might 
come  with  us,  he  and  both  the  ladys  welcomed  me 
most  kindly,  nothing  can  be  more  affec**^  than 
all  their  behaviours,  we  sat  down  to  a  good  Dinner 
and  play'd  off  very  handsomely  and  after  took  a 
most  delightful  walk  to  the  Meadows  and  back,  this 
place  is  Ilysium  all,  but  my  want  is  great,  I  must 
say  it,  tho'  I  wish  to  conform  as  much  as  possible, 
and  everything  is  done  here  to  make  me  happy,  but 
oh!  no  Philip  ;  look  where  I  will ;  no  dear  Husband, 
who  with  his  life  and  spirits  makes  everyone  happy. 
We  talk  of  you  and  my  dear  Mack  for  ever,  and  never 
omit  in  the  kindest  manner  drinking  your  healths." 

On  May  19th  Mrs.  Francis  leaves  Twickenham 
and  goes  to  stay  at  Fulham  with  her  father  and 
mother  for  the  Whitsuntide  holidays.  Her  girls 
are  there  also,  two  little  ones  and  three  from  school. 

"  Fulham. 
"  Wednesday,  2^tk.  Patty,  Collins  [the  maid]  and 
1  went  to  Town  to  bring  little  Philip  here  from 
Mr.  Ribouville's.  Found  everything  ready  for  us 
and  Philip  very  well.  My  Father  and  Mother  and 
the  girls  were  very  happy  to  see  Philip  and  he 
them.  We  have  a  constant  noise  with  the  six,  but 
if  I  am  not  very  well  I  keep  upstairs  in  my  room 
which  I  find  very  comfortable. 

''Friday,  I'jth.  We  stayed  at  home  and  I  worked 
hard  for  my  three  girls  making  three  Bonnets  &c. 

"  Saturday,  2'^tk.  Still  at  home  and  at  work,  no 
going  out,  bad  weather,  Philip  reads  to  me  pretty  well, 


1774]  TLbc  ffrancis  letters  195 

the  girls  making  me  some  nightshifts.  I  remember 
what  you  say  never  to  let  them  be  unemployed,  your 
injunctions  are  never  out  of  my  mind  and  I  hope 
in  God  will  have  the  proper  effects. 

"  Monday,  June  6th.  I  sat  some  hours  mending 
Sally's  coat,  then  went  with  my  Father,  the  three 
girls,  Philip  and  Patty  to  take  a  walk.  Just  as  we 
got  to  the  Bishop's  walk  John  came  to  tell  me 
Doctor  Macnamara  was  just  come.  I  came  home 
again,  and  found  him  very  well.  I  told  him  all  my 
complaints  and  what  medicines  I  had  taken  since  I 
have  been  here  and  he  says  they  will  not  be  of  any 
use  at  all,  he  sadly  wants  me  to  go  to  Margate 
again,  but  I  told  him  that  did  not  suit  me  at  all 
unless  I  found  I  could  not  do  without.  He  then 
proposed  Tunbridge  and  insisted  upon  my  going 
before  this  month  is  out ;  he  says  it  will  strengthen 
me  and  give  me  great  spirits,  and  upon  the  whole 
seems  to  say  it  is  necessary,  as  weakness  and  bad 
spirits,  nerves  &c.,  is  the  chief  of  my  complaints. 

"  I  have  had  a  letter  from  Mr.  Ribouville  to  inform 
me  that  Lord  and  Lady  Clive  had  been  to  settle 
everything  about  their  pretty  little  Bob  and  he  is 
to  go  to  him  to  board  on  the  20th  inst.,  when  the 
school  begins.  The  letter  is  full  of  thanks  and 
acknowledgments  to  us  for  our  recommendations  and 
speaking  so  much  in  his  favour,  he  is  very  grateful 
and  says  he  will  use  his  gratitude  in  the  case  of 
my  dear  Boy. 


196  tlbe  Francis  Xetters  [1774 

"  Thursday  June  gth,  was  my  Worthy  Father's 
Birthday  when  he  entered  into  the  79th  year  of 
his  age,  he  is  really  better  than  one  could  imagine 
and  looks  very  well,  but  at  times  very  low  spirited 
and  his  being  so  deaf  I  believe  in  a  great  degree 
contributes  to  make  him  so.  I  made  them  a  present 
of  a  fine  Ham  for  the  Birthday  and  we  had  a  Fillet 
of  Veal  and  two  Gooseberry  Pyes.  We  spent  a  very 
agreeable  day. 

"  Friday,  June  loth.  Collins  went  Home  in  the 
Stage  Coach  and  took  Philip  to  School,  he  was 
beginning  to  be  rather  too  much  for  us,  and  I  thought 
a  fortnight  was  quite  enough  Holy  days  at  a  time, 
he  went  home  with  the  greatest  good  humour  and 
spirits  and  was  received  most  affectionately  by  Mr. 
Ribouville  and  Mrs.  D'Orville,  they  are  worthy  good 
People  and  if  they  have  a  fault  'tis  being  too  indulgent, 
but  I  hope  my  boy  won't  make  a  bad  use  of  it. 
Just  before  Collins  returned  home  we  had  a  change 
in  Mr.  White's  family  where  my  Father  lives,  there 
was  an  old  Lady  an  Aunt  of  his,  Mrs.  Davies — my 
Brother  I  believe  remembers  her — who  has  been  very 
ill  for  some  months  which  has  rather  contributed  to 
making  the  house  more  dull,  ever  since  I  have  been 
here  and  on  Friday  evening  just  before  Collins  came 
home  she  dyed,  this  put  a  gravity  and  melancholy 
upon  everyone's  countenance  and  I  feared  would  be 
particularly  disagreeable  to  my  Father  as  he  is  usually 
low,  and  those  things  generally  affect  weak  spirits. 
I  took  my  three  girls  to  Mrs.  W.  at  their  school 
and  begged  she  would  take  them  home  for  I  thought 
it  would  be  terrifying  to  children  to  be  in  the  house 


I 


1774]  XTbe  jfrancls  Xettcrs  197 

with  a  corpse  and  then  came  home  again  and  Collins 
came  out  to  me  and  offered  me  a  letter,  which  I 
knew  by  the  direction  to  be  yours.  I  took  it  very 
composedly  and  broke  the  seal,  as  I  could  not  waste 
the  paper  that  had  been  with  my  dear  Philip  and 
began  reading  what  has  been  the  best  medicine  to 
me  since  you  left  us,  my  melancholy  and  grave 
thoughts  left  me  and  I  gave  my  Father  my  Brother's 
Letter  and  after  reading  both  all  our  side  of  the 
house  became  happy  and  comforted  ;  only  think  on 
the  goodness  of  God  that  sent  us  these  Letters  just 
as  our  spirits  had  been  depressed  by  the  death  of  the 
old  Lady,  perhaps  our  Joy  at  receiving  them  might 
otherwise  have  been  too  great,  and  overcome  us. 

"  The  shortness  of  your  Passage  to  Madeira  has 
been  looked  upon  as  wonderful  to  everyone  that 
has  heard  of  it  and  the  observation  you  make  of  the 
heat  of  the  climate  as  agreeing  with  you  from  the 
clearness  of  your  Head  makes  me  flatter  myself  you 
will  enjoy  your  Health.  ...  I  am  extremely  glad 
you  happen  to  have  been  so  agreeably  fixed,  in 
your  house  at  Madeira  and  that  you  have  by  that 
means  avoided  some  of  those  noxious  animals  you 
mention  which  were  so  plenty  elsewhere.  You  desire 
it  may  be  mentioned  to  Mr.  Davidson,  the  Civility 
of  Mr.  Murdocks,  accordingly  on  Saturday  nth  I 
wrote  in  the  morning  a  few  lines  to  Mrs.  Chandler 
and  enclosed  your  letter  to  Mr.  Chandler  and  told 
her  about  Mr.  Murdocks  that  it  might  be  mentioned 
to  Mr.  Davidson.  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Bourke  as  you 
desired,    to    Mrs.    D'Oyly,    to    Miss    Chitty   and   to 


198  XLbc  jf rands  Xcrters  [1774 

Doctor  Campbell,  all  these  Letters  were  some  fatigue 
to  me  but  the  subject  was  so  delightful  that  I  enjoyed 
it  even  though  I  was  tired,  I  am  happy  when  I  think 
I  am  in  my  duty  and  doing  what  you  would  approve 
if  you  was  present. 

"  Your  spending  your  time  so  agreeably  on  Board 
Ship  is  the  greatest  pleasure  to  me,  you  say  you  live 
well.  I  wish  I  could  convey  to  you  some  of  those 
delightful  sallets  and  other  herbish  you  used  so  much 
to  admire,  but  my  dearest  Love  we  must  all  consider 
there  is  not  a  situation  in  Life  that  has  not  its  wants 
and  hope  you  won't  find  many  of  those.  I  am 
extremely  happy  to  find  your  friends  and  you  are 
so  happy  in  each  other,  I  never  doubted  but  it  would 
be  so  and  I  sincerely  hope  that  every  one  you  are 
connected  with  will  be  as  partial  and  as  much  pre- 
judiced in  favour  of  everything  you  do  as  I  am. 
You  mention  your  intention  of  leaving  Madeira  the 
first  of  May,  I  hope  you  will  have  as  happy  and 
safe  and  quick  a  voyage  to  the  Cape  as  you  had 
to  the  Madeiras. 

"  Wednesday,  June  15M.  We  packed  our  things 
and  sent  them  to  the  Stage  for  Tunbridge,  that  day  I 
received  many  visits  in  the  afternoon,  Mr.  Holden 
drank  Tea  with  us,  in  the  evening  Sally  Bussey  called, 
who  is  very  well,  but  low-spirited,  for  want  of  lodgers. 
Mr.  Godfrey  payd  me  a  short  visit  and  begg'd  Philip's 
company  for  a  few  days  at  East  Burnham  when  next 
he  comes  to  Town,  he  seems  much  pleased  with 
him.   ...    I    beg   my    dear    Mack's   pardon    for   not 


1774]  XTbe  ifrancis  Xetters  199 

thanking  him  for  his  letter,  in  it  was  enclosed  two 
tickets  for  Cox's  Museum  which  my  cousin  and  I  have 
made  use  of  and  two  Tickets  for  Mr.  Adams's  Houses. 
I  am  happy  to  hear  such  good  accounts  of  his  health 
and  happiness.  ... 

"  Received  a  letter  from  Mrs.  D'Oyly  with  one 
enclosed  from  Bath  containing  a  note  for  jCiS  as 
your  proportion  of  the  money  from  the  Rooms. 

"  Thursday ,  June  i6th.  About  10  o'clock  my  cousin 
Patty,  Collins  and  I  set  out  in  a  Post  Chaise  and  John 
on  Horseback  for  Tunbridge  Wells,  where  we  arrived 
after  a  most  agreeable  journey  about  5  o'clock.  We 
immediately  went  to  look  after  lodgings  and  took  half 
of  the  house  which  joined  our  little  apartment  when 
we  were  here  together  the  first  time.  .  .  .  After  fixing 
my  lodging  we  drank  Tea  at  the  Sussex  and  had 
everything  in  that  evening  and  hoped  to  have  slept 
well,  but  we  had  a  most  dreadful  night  of  Thunder 
and  Lightning  from  half  past  eleven  till  four  in  the 
Morning,  so  I  never  slept  till  it  ceased  and  the  fright 
so  fatigued  me  that  I  could  not  get  up  to  drink 
the  water. 

"  Saturday  morning,  \%th.  Got  up  at  eight  and 
drank  a  glass  of  water,  walked  half  an  hour,  and  then 
another,  walked  again  and  then  came  home  to  Break- 
fast, ate  heartily  and  then  set  out  to  walk  to  Lord 
Clive's  which  is  upon  Mount  Ephraim  near  a  mile 
up  the  Hill.  I  found  my  Lord  and  Lady  and  Miss 
Ducarel,  they  received  me  very  kindly  and  talked 
much    of  you,  but   she   says  the  subject  won't  bear 


200  XTbc  ffrandg  Xctters  [1774 

talking  of,  but  will  write  to  me  a  great  deal,  my  lord 
looks  very  well  and  seems  in  better  spirits  than  I  ever 
saw  him ;  he  wonders  much  you  never  gave  me  any 
account  of  a  wonderful  Mountain  that  is  before  you 
come  to  Madeira,  he  says  it  is  three  Miles  High  and 
almost  perpendicular. 

"  When  I  left  Town  your  favourite  Tom  the  Cat 
was  in  perfect  Health,  but  had  forgot  me,  would  not 
come  to  me,  but  remembered  Collins  and  was  fond 
of  her.  John  has  behaved  very  well  ever  since  you 
went,  he  is  quiet,  sober  and  civil  and  I  hope  he 
will  do  very  well. 

"  I  am  in  great  hopes  I  shall  be  the  better  for  these 
waters  as  I  find  I  can  bear  more  walking  and  exercise 
than  formerly  and  I  hope  in  time  to  gain  strength. 

"  Monday^  June  20th.  The  Master  of  the  Cere- 
monies introduced  himself  to  me,  he  seems  to  be  a 
very  polite  and  well-bred  man,  his  name  is  Tyson,  he 
told  me  he  had  the  honour  of  being  acquainted  with 
you,  he  had  dined  in  company  with  you  and  enquired 
much  after  your  health  and  Voyage.  The  people 
seem  to  pay  him  great  respect,  he  dined  at  my  Lord 
Clive's  last  week  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Pigou.  There 
are  a  good  many  people,  Mr.  Pigou  tells  me  their 
names,  but  I  know  no  one  to  speak  to  but  him, 
however  'tis  no  loss  as  I  don't  want  any  company  and 
Walking  is  my  only  amusement. 

"  Tuesday,  2\st.  Walked  out  in  the  morning  and 
went  to  dinner  to  Lady  Clive's,  my  Lord  dined 
out,  old  Mr.  King  is  with  them  and  Mrs.  and 
Miss  Boone  dined  with  them,  we  were  all  extremely 


1774]     .,  XCbe  jfrancts  Xetters  201 

happy  and  chearful.  Lady  Clive  says  she  will 
write  to  you  soon  and  desires  me  to  say  her 
beautiful  Black  Cat  that  she  calls  Lady  is  in 
perfect  Health,  she  talks  much  of  you,  gave  you  for 
the  first  toast,  then  drank  you  and  your  Brother  and 
mentions  you  in  the  kindest  manner,  she  melts  often 
when  she  talks  of  you,  you  know  her  goodness,  she 
says  she  hopes  you  will  send  her  a  fine  Persian  cat 
and  tells  me  she  hopes  to  live  to  see  you  return  and 
says  she  has  the  greatest  dependence  upon  you. 
There  is  a  Gentleman  here  whose  person  is  so  like 
you  that  I  have  cryed  when  I  have  seen  him.  Lady 
Clive  wished  much  to  see  this  Gentleman,  but  has 
not,  Miss  Ducarel  has  and  is  of  my  opinion.  Poor 
Miss  Ducarel  seems  very  low-spirited,  she  has  many 
troubles  and  distresses  concerning  this  same  matri- 
monial scheme  she  has  in  view  and  is  very  unhappy. 

"  I  think  my  spirits  have  been  rather  better  since  I 
came  here  as  I  walk  a  good  deal,  I  attribute  it  much 
to  that  and  when  I  am  not  walking  my  cousin  and  I 
spend  all  our  time  in  Reading,  we  don't  go  to  the 
Rooms  at  all  and  mix  very  little  with  the  Company, 
as  indeed  I  am  not  acquainted  with  anybody  here 
as  yet. 

"  Friday,  24M.  Our  day  was  spent  as  usual 
walking  and  reading,  about  eight  o'clock  in  the 
evening  came  Miss  Boone  to  see  me  and  stayed  an 
hour,  she  is  very  sensible  and  agreeable  and  was 
so  polite  as  to  tell  Lady  Clive  she  wished  to  be  ac- 
quainted with  me. 

"  Saturday,  June  25M.     About  three  o'clock  came 


ao2  xrbe  ifrancls  Xettcrs  [1774 

a  most  welcome  visitor  by  my  particular  Invitation, 
Miss  Kitty  Francis  and  her  maid  Sherry,  they  arrived 
safe  here  in  the  stage  coach.  The  child  talks  for 
ever,  her  joy  was  so  great  at  seeing  me  she  could 
hardly  express  it,  kissed  and  hugged  me  all  over  and 
sayd  '  pretty  Mama,  Kitty  is  come  to  see  pretty 
Mama '  she  told  me  a  great  deal  about  Grandpapa  and 
Mama  and  sisters,  but  is  for  ever  calling  on  Brother 
Philly  and  asking  for  him.  I  have  sent  Mary  to 
Mrs.  White's  day  school  with  her  sisters  and  she 
seems  to  be  happy. 

"  Saturday.  I  had  a  letter  from  Mr.  Ribouville 
with  a  most  happy  account  of  my  dear  boy's  health 
and  good  behaviour. 

"  Sunday,  26th.  Was  rather  out  of  spirits,  did  not 
go  to  church,  said  my  Prayers  at  Home,  had  a  fine 
walk  in  the  morning,  rained  in  the  afternoon  so  stay'd 
at  home  read  some  of  our  friend  Mrs.  Griffiths's  at 
Margate,  her  productions  very  sentimental  indeed,  but 
well  enough  to  pass  time,  not  fit  for  my  daughters' 
perusal,  when  they  come  home  our  reading  must  be 
of  a  quite  different  nature. 

''Monday,  2ytk.  Took  a  fine  walk  after  Breakfast 
to  the  Top  of  the  Hills,  Kitty  enjoys  running  on  the 
Pantiles  and  hearing  the  Music,  she  is  much  admired 
by  the  Ladys,  in  the  afternoon  returned  Miss  Boone's 
visit,  walked  a  little  and  came  home  to  our  books. 
We  have  had  some  Plays  and  some  of  poor  Dr. 
Goldsmith's  Works  and  have  now  got  Lady  Mary 
Wortley  Montague's  Letters  which  are  very  amusing 
indeed. 

"  Thursday,  June  ^oth.     Who   should   I    meet   on 


1774]  Ubc  fvancis  Xetters  203 

the  Walks  but  Miss  Smith,  an  agreeable  woman,  who 
was  with  Mrs.  Balentine  some  years  ago  and  supped 
at  our  House.  She  is  sister  to  General  Smith  who 
has  been  many  years  in  India,  she  is  come  here  with 
his  wife  and  another  sister.  They  have  the  greatest 
magnificence  and  grandeur,  Gold- Laced  Liverys, 
much  finer  than  anybody  here,  we  walked  together 
in  the  evening. 

"  Tuesday,  Aug.  2nd.  We  had  a  grand  Ball  for 
the  Master  of  the  Ceremonys,  I  went  to  it  and  gave 
him  a  guinea  which  was  the  custom. 

"  Wednesday,  Tf^d.  Took  leave  of  all  my  friends  at 
the  Wells,  paid  my  Bills  and  made  a  purchase  of  a 
Book  in  2  Vols,  on  Education  wrote  by  a  Mrs. 
Chapone  ^  and  recommended  to  me  by  a  very  sensible 
and  wonderful  clever  old  Lady,  a  Mrs.  Montagu,  a 
particular  friend  of  Mrs.  D'Oylys  and  whom  this  book 
is  dedicated  to,  she  is  an  author  and  has  wrote  some 
clever  things,  one  upon  Shakspeare's  works,  perhaps 
you  may  have  seen  it. 

"  Thursday   morning,    Aug.    ^tk.     We    all   set   off 

from  the  Wells  in  a  coach    and  four   which    I    sent 

for  from  H  anbury's  the  man  you  employed  and  also 

a  Saddle  horse  for  John.     I  thank  God  we  came  all 

safe   Home  to   Duke   Street  soon  after  eight  in  the 

evening  and  found  the  House  safe  and  Tom  the  cat 

in  perfect  Health  and  as  fat  as  a  bear." 

^  Hester  Chapone,  the  celebrated  bas  bleu.  The  title  of  the 
book  on  which  her  fame  in  those  days  rested  is  "Letters  on  the 
Improvement  of  the  Mind,  addressed  to  a  Young  Lady."  Her 
correspondence  with  Richardson  has  also  been  published. 


ao4  TTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1774 

Alexander  Mackrabie's  Diary  Continued. 

"  On  Board  the  Ashburnham.  Ceylon, 
"Friday,  Sep.  \tth,  1774. 

"  The  Zaprabana  of  the  Ancients — the  Serendib  of 
the  Arabians — and  Solomon's  Magazine  for  spices 
and  Ivory.  Our  first  Parents  are  supposed  to  have 
lived  here  in  great  splendour.  After  them  came 
Noah  with  his  little  Family.  In  his  time  there  was 
one  just  Man  at  least  upon  the  Island,  but  things 
are  much  altered  since  the  Dutch  took  possession  of  it. 
As  we  sailed  along  the  Coast,  we  expected  to  breathe 
nothing  but  Gales  of  Cinnamon  and  that  Oysters 
would  come  on  board  with  Pearls  in  their  Mouths. 
But  Nature  in  this  country  is  soon  exhausted, 
and  I  fear  after  all  that  we  are  going  to  make 
Love  to  a  Superannuated  old  Woman  who,  besides 
the  Loss  of  her  Beauty  has  been  plundered  of  her 
Money. 

"Madras. 

"  Wednesday,  Sept.  2\st.  The  Supreme  Court  of 
Judicature  always  take  the  lead  of  us.  They  sail 
better  than  we  do,  and  their  Charter  gives  them  the 
Precedence.  Their  Worships  landed  [at  Madras]  two 
days  before  us.  What  marks  of  Honour  and  Respect 
they  may  have  been  distinguished  by  I  know  not,  but 
nothing  could  exceed  those  shown  to  our  Party. 
Scarce  had  we  cast  Anchor,  when  a  Letter  and 
Message  arrived  from  the  Governor  inviting  us  on 
Shore.  General  Smith  with  several  Gentlemen  of 
the  Council  received  us  at  the  Water's  Edge.  The 
Guns  fired  incessantly,  the  Streets  were  lined  with 
soldiers,   the    Sun   flamed    in   the   Zenith,    the   sand 


1774]  Xlbe  jfrancts  Xctters  205 

vitrified  under  our  feet,  the  Rabble  trampled  us  to 
death.  In  short  we  were  received,  like  the  fallen 
angels  into  a  little  Hell  of  our  own.  We  found 
Houses  provided  for  everybody  and  centinels  placed 
at  the  Doors.  The  Governor  Mr.  Wynch  enter- 
tained us  at  Dinner  each  Day.  There  was  a  Concert 
the  first  Evening  and  afterwards  an  Assembly  and 
Supper,  when  our  Ladies  by  exciting  different 
Passions  in  the  two  Sexes,  did  all  the  Mischief 
they  could  desire. 

"  Fort  St.  George  does  not  abound  with  pretty 
women,  tho*  it  may  boast  with  some  Reason  of 
Mrs.  Johnson.  She  is  unique  in  this  country  and 
before  our  arrival  could  never  have  suffered  by  a 
comparison.  If  splendor  accompanied  Heat,  a  Ball 
in  India  ought  to  be  uncommonly  splendid.  The 
appearance  of  the  Ladies  even  before  Country  Dances 
was  rather  ardent  than  luminous,  when  the  Minuets 
are  ended  they  go  home  with  their  Partners  to 
undress,  and  after  a  little  Refreshment  return  again 
in  the  purest  Innocence  of  Muslin  and  the  Simplicity 
of  a  Nightgown.  The  Zeal  and  activity  with  which 
they  exert  themselves  in  Country  dances  is  exercise 
enough  for  the  Spectators.  By  dint  of  Motion  these 
Children  of  the  Sun,  in  a  very  few  minutes,  get  as 
hot  as  their  Father  and  then  it  is  not  safe  to  approach 
them.  In  this  agitation  they  continue,  literally  swim- 
ming thro'  the  dance  till  he  comes  himself  and 
reminds  them  of  the  hour.  At  midnight  we  sober 
citizens  retired  to  Bed,  but  not  to  rest — devoured 
by  Mosquitoes  and  overcome  with  Heat  though  all 
the  windows  and  doors  were  left  open." 


ao6  XTbe  francis  Xcttcrs  [1774. 

They  pay  a  visit  to  the  Nawab  of  Arcot,  and  Mr. 
Mackrabie  describes  what  took  place  : — 

"  Thursday,  Sept.  22nd.  A  conversation  carried  on 
thro'  the  Channel  of  an  Interpreter  cannot  be  very 
interesting,  but  it  was  very  civil  and  notwithstanding 
the  ceremonies  of  Asiatic  Politeness  the  visit  was  too 
short  to  be  tedious.  When  we  had  been  seated  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  a  Train  of  Servants  came  in 
with  Baskets  and  Phials  of  Gold.  The  Nabob 
then  went  round  and  presented  each  Person  with 
Beetle,  a  kind  of  Aromatic  Leaf  which  these 
people  are  everlastingly  chewing — and  dropped  Atta 
of  Roses  upon  our  Handkerchiefs.  He  then 
thanked  everybody  for  the  Honour  of  this  Visit 
and  begged  that  an  hour  might  be  fixed  for  his 
returning  it  next  day, — upon  which  we  took  our 
leave  and  retired  in  the  Order  in  which  we  came. 
I  should  have  been  very  unwilling  to  have  lost  this 
Interview  with  the  Nabob,  even  such  as  it  was 
— but  it  might  have  been  rendered  much  more 
interesting.  He  might  have  shewn  us  his  Women, 
or  at  least  his  Elephants — he  might  if  the  Law  had 
not  put  our  Virtue  out  of  the  reach  of  Temptation 
have  presented  each  of  us  with  a  Pearl,  a  Diamond 
or  a  Persian  Horse.  Such  sweet  Remembrances 
make  lasting  Impressions.  I  have  now  almost  forgot 
the  Colour  of  his  Highness's  Beard. 

"  Sept.  22nd.  Returning  from  our  Excursion  we 
passed  thro'  the  Black  Town  where  everything  is 
new,  everything  is  strange — the  Houses — the  People  ! 
The    Heat    and    Crowd   were    intolerable.       It    was 


1774]  Xtbe  jprancis  Xetters  207 

Market  Day  and  every  sort  of  Jollity  and  Noise  going 
forward  in  the  Bazar. 

"  The  Gentoos  are  divided  into  numberless  Classes 
and  Casts,  distinguished  from  each  other  by  Marks  or 
Lines  on  the  Forehead  of  different  Colours,  red,  white, 
blue,  yellow,  according  to  the  degrees  of  their  Faith 
or  Rank  in  the  Church.  If  Philosophy  consists  in 
renouncing  the  comforts  of  Life,  there  is  not  a  Black 
Fellow  here  who  might  not  give  Lessons  to  Diogenes. 
It  must  be  their  own  fault  if  they  are  not  happy. 
The  English  by  banishing  all  Ideas  of  Property  from 
among  their  Subjects  have  relieved  them  from  the 
Cares  of  the  World.  They  are  not  robust,  yet  every 
Man  carries  his  Fortune  upon  his  Back. 

"  We  supped  at  the  Governor  s,  a  large  party  of 
ladies  and  gentlemen,  after  which  our  Phaeton  con- 
veyed us  7  miles  at  a  most  rapid  rate  to  Mamelon,  the 
Retirement  of  Mr.  Andrew  Ross  where  we  arrive  at 
Midnight  and  lie  down  for  a  few  hours. 

"  Friday,  22,rd.  We  visited  a  curious  Manufacturer 
of  Chintzes  which  threw  new  Lights  upon  my  Ideas 
concerning  that  Article.  Till  then  I  thought  that  all 
Chintzes  were  printed  ;  but  I  now  find  that  in  India, 
every  Stroke,  every  colour  is  given  with  a  Pencil.  The 
most  indefatigable  Industry  would  be  unequal  to  such 
an  undertaking,  were  not  many  parts  of  it  executed 
by  Children  of  6  &  7  years  old,  who  gain  their  three 
half-pence  per  Day  and  are  content.  Though  I  gave 
but  little  attention  to  what  they  were  doing  I  felt 
myself  affected  by  the  Sight  of  so  much  Innocent 
Industry  so  poorly  rewarded.  We  were  shewn  the 
whole  Process  from  the  Looms  to  the  Glazing.     After 


2o8  Ube  ftmcis  Xettcrs  [1774 

Breakfast  which  we  took  in  the  open  Air  by  a  River's 
side,  we  returned  to  the  Fort,  time  enough  to  dress 
and  receive  the  Nabob's  [return]  Visit. 

"  I  think  I  could  more  easily  paint  than  describe  the 
Procession.  He  was  preceded  by  a  Train  of  Horse 
and  Foot  Guards,  a  Band  of  Music,  Fellows  with  gold 
and  silver  Staves,  and  followed  by  led  Horses,  Palan- 
quins flaming  with  rich  Embroidery.  .  .  .  The  Nabob 
was  attended  by  his  5  Sons.  His  elder  Brother,  a 
venerable  old  Man  with  a  long  white  Beard  was  like- 
wise of  the  Party.  This  respectable  Personage  has 
but  lately  tasted  the  sweets  of  Liberty.  The  present 
Nabob,  finding  himself  at  least  as  capable  to  rule  an 
Empire,  having  recommended  Study  and  Retirement 
to  him,  which  I  suppose  the  other  wisely  preferred  to 
Assassination.  Musselmen  have  their  own  Ideas  of 
Justice  and  the  Sword  and  the  Law  are  generally  in 
the  same  Hand.  After  a  short  Conversation,  a  folding 
Door  was  opened  at  which  our  Ladies  stood,  that  the 
Nabob  might  pay  his  compliments  to  them. 

''  Friday y  Sept.  2T,rd.  The  Plan  of  the  Houses  of 
Europeans  is  large  and  commodious.  The  Ground 
Floors  all  Vaulted,  containing  Offices  and  Store- 
houses. A  broad  stone  Staircase  leads  to  the 
Principal  Story  which  consists  of  a  very  spacious 
and  lofty  Hall,  with  4  or  6  large  lodging  Rooms 
adjoining.  The  Hall  is  the  Apartment  in  which 
you  sit  at  all  Times  and  has  arches  at  each  end 
for  the  free  admission  of  the  Air.  These  com- 
municate with  a  large  covered  Balcony  to  the  Street 
and  an  extensive  Terrace  backwards.  There  are  few 
Houses  here  with  Fronts  of  less  than  60  or  80  feet. 


1774]  tlbe  ifrancls  Xettcrs  209 

In  Bengal  we  are  informed,  the  Dimensions  are  much 
greater.  You  see  no  painted  Walls  in  India,  much  less 
do  they  deal  in  Tapestry  Hangings.  They  have  a  kind 
of  Lime  so  exceeding  fine  that  it  has  all  the  Beauty  of 
Stucco  with  the  Polish  of  Marble.  Their  Windows 
have  Frames  with  cane  Blinds,  instead  of  Glass. 

"  A  Chamber  requires  little  besides  a  Bedstead,  a 
Mattrass  covered  with  a  calico  Sheet  and  2  Bolsters. 
One  for  the  Head,  the  other  a  long  one  to  lay  by 
your  side  and  support  the  Weight  of  a  Palampore 
or  thin  chintze,  which  is  all  the  covering  necessary 
in  this  climate.  A  Mosquito  Curtain  completes  the 
Economy  of  the  Bed. 

"  On    Board    Ashburnham. 
"  Oct.  \ith,   Wednesday. 

"  We  pass  Ingelee  at  noon. — About  that  Hour  we 
observe  a  Boat  making  towards  the  Ship,  having  on 
Board  a  Gentleman  dressed  in  Scarlet.  This  ap- 
pearance occasions  manifold  Conjectures.  It  proves 
to  be  Mr.  Geo.  Livius  to  welcome  Mr.  F.  He 
supplies  us  and  our  fair  Companions  with  various 
Refreshments,  and  has  provided  with  indefatigable 
zeal  for  our  future  as  well  as  our  present  Comfort, 
having  brought  for  Mr.  Francis's  Accommodation  two 
Budgerows  with  every  Article  necessary  for  the 
Voyage  to  Calcutta,  from  whence  we  find  ourselves 
distant  about  130  miles  upon  coming  to  an  Anchor 
off  Kidgeree  this  day  at  two  o'clock. 

"  River  Hughley. 
"  Wednesday,     Oct.    \<)tk.      Exactly    at    Noon,    a 
comfortable   Season  for  establishing  the  Etiquette  of 

14 


2IO  tTbe  jfrancts  Xettcrs  [1774 

Precedency,  the  whole  Party  are  disposed  in  three 
Boats,  and  both  Courts  landed  at  the  Capital  of  their 
Jurisdiction.  The  Procession  to  the  Governor's 
House  beggars  all  Description.  The  Heat — the 
Confusion  —  not  an  attempt  at  Regularity  —  No 
Guards — No  Person  to  receive  or  shew  the  Way. 
No  State; — This  is  the  Age  of  Reformation. — But 
surely  Mr.  Hastings  might  have  put  on  a  ruffled 
Shirt. 

"  The  Ceremony  of  Introduction  gone  through  the 
Audience  broke  up,  and  we  changed  the  Scene  though 
not  the  Climate.  At  two,  the  whole  Party,  increased 
by  this  Time  to  150,  met  again  at  the  Governor's 
House  to  dine.  In  such  a  Company  little  Order  can 
be  expected,  we  eat  and  drank — and  endeavoured  at 
Society — but  even  Wine  in  Ale  Glasses  cannot  remove 
suspicion.  At  four  everybody  retired,  to  sleep — or 
Meditation.  At  Six,  rose  to  Tea,  dress,  and  go 
a  visiting.  We  welcomed  all  our  fair  Companions  to 
Calcutta, — and  here  ends  the  Journal  of  our  Voyage." 


Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  to  the  End  of 
October,   1774. 

"  Monday,  August  ^th.  We  came  to  Fulham  on 
Saturday  Evening,  and  on  Sunday  went  to  Church, 
saw  my  dear  Girls  all  well,  they  went  home  with 
us  to  dinner  and  spent  the  Day.  They  improve 
very  much  and  all  behave  perfectly  well,  Sally  is 
really  very  sedate  and  agreeable  and  I  think  every 
way  pleasing,  Betsy  is  not  so  fat  as  she  was,  but 
looks   delightfully  and   tho'   more  of  the  Child  than 


WARREN   HASTINGS, 

GOVERNOR-GENERAL     OF     INDIA. 


To  face  page  210.] 


1774]  Ubc  jf rands  Xettcrs  2" 

her  Sister,  is  truly  a  charming,  sensible,  good  natured 
girl.  Harriet  is  not  the  least  in  merit ;  her  character 
from  her  Governess  is  very  great,  and  I  hope  my 
dearest  Philip  you  remember  us  all  enough  to  know 
that  she  is  clever  and  promises  to  be  a  most  amiable 
woman.  Mary  is  much  grown  and  is  a  sweet  child, 
and  now  for  little  Kitty,  she  is,  if  possible  more 
and  more  agreeable  every  Day,  her  temper  is  most 
sweet  and  her  understanding  promises  to  be  very 
strong,  she  speaks  very  well  and  is  most  engaging, 
she  is  much  admired,  and  often  talks  of  you  and 
Uncle  and  says  you  are  gone  far  off,  such  sayings 
as  this  give  me  many  a  pang." 

The  Journal  is  continued  from  Twickenham,  where 
Mrs.  Francis  went  on  August  24th,  to  stay  with  her 
friends  Mr.  and  Mrs.   H olden  : — 

"  Monday,  Aug.  2<^th.  Went  to  call  on  Lady 
Prime.  .  .  .  Sir  Samuel  told  Mrs.  Holden  he  was 
surprised  to  see  me  quite  a  young  Lady,  indeed  he 
thought  by  my  large  Family  and  frequent  Indis- 
positions that  I  must  be  an  Elderly  Lady — but  again 
he  says  '  quite  a  young  Lady '  you  know  his 
particular  manner  of  speaking. 

"  Wednesday,  $is^.  A  good  morning,  took  a  walk 
with  my  dear  Polly  [Holden]  and  went  to  Church 
to  Prayers,  came  home  and  dressed  and  all  went 
to  Sir  Samuel  Prime's  to  dinner  on  Venison  &c.,  a 
good  Dinner  and  Desert,  great  State  and  Form. 
Your  Health  particularly  remembered,  a  great  many 
compts.  payd   me  on   my  playing  and  singing  a  few 


212  XTbe  jfrancts  Xetters  [1774 

of  Handel's  Songs  to  them.  Mr.  Prime  and  all  the 
Family  seem  to  stand  in  great  Awe  of  the  old 
Knight.  .  .  . 

"  Friday,  Sept.  2nd.  Received  a  letter  from  Dr. 
Macnamara  and  I  believe  I  must  make  a  tryal  of 
the  Sea  Baths  at  Margate  for  a  little  time  when  the 
Weather  is  a  little  colder,  as  he  thinks  it  will 
strengthen  me  and  prepare  me  for  the  cold  next 
Winter. 

"  Saturday,  2>^d.  Fine  day,  took  a  walk  before 
Dinner  with  my  dear  Polly,  stayd  at  home  in  the 
afternoon  and  according  to  Custom  in  the  Evening 
played  for  an  hour  at  Tredrille  for  J  a  Fish. 

Sunday,  ^tk.     Was  pretty  well,  so  went  to  Church. 

Wednesday,  ytk.  Staid  at  Home.  Lady  Prime  & 
Mr.  &  Miss  Prime  came  to  drink  tea  and  went  home 
soon  for  fear  of  Highwaymen  for  they  are  very 
plenty  near  Twickenham. 

'•  Wednesday,  i^th.  Return  to  Duke  Street — 
Home. 

"  Tuesday,  Sept.  20th.  I  put  into  Mr.  Shuckburgh's 
hands  my  Journal  of  30  Pages  and  a  Letter  from  Mrs. 
Hay  in  case  there  should  be  an  opportunity  of  a  Ship 
going  to  Bengal,  before  my  return  from  Margate,  and 
he  promised  to  take  it  to  Mr.  Roberts  himself  About 
1 1  o'clock  that  morning,  my  Cousin  Patty,  Collins, 
and  I  in  a  Post-Chaise  and  John  on  Horseback  set  off 
for  Margate,  we  dined  at  Dartford  where  Mr.  Powel 
enquired  much  after  you  and  wished  you  every 
happiness  and  success,  we  slept  that  night  at 
Rochester  at  the  Bull  and  breakfasted  next  morning 
(Wednesday),  for  you  know  I  cannot  be  hurryed,  we 


1774]  Tlbe  ifrancls  Xettcrs  213 

set  out  before  nine,  changed  our  Chaise  at  Sittingborn 
and  dined  at  Canterbury,  about  six  o'clock  got  safe  to 
Margate  and  found  my  old  Lodgings  at  Rowes  on  the 
Parade  ready  for  me.  Next  morning  Dr.  Macnamara 
called  on  me  and  almost  ensures  me  of  success. 

"  Sunday,  Oct.  <^th.  A  fine  Morning,  had  a  charming 
dip  and  walked  to  the  Rope  Walk  &  back  again. 
There  is  a  Lady  here,  much  admired,  her  name 
Gruber,  her  husband  is  in  the  East  Indies,  perhaps 
you  may  meet  with  him,  she  is  very  beautiful  and  was 
shipwrecked  coming  from  thence.  Dr.  Macnamara 
knows  her. 

''Friday,  Oct.  i^th.  I  bathed  and  met  Dr.  Macnamara 
who  engaged  my  cousin  and  me  to  go  and  dine  with 
them  at  the  Lighthouse  on  Whillings.  We  were  very 
merry  and  did  not  forget  our  dearest  Friends,  it  was  a 
charming  day  and  everything  contributed  to  make  our 
Jaunt  agreeable,  Dr.  Macnamara  has  got  a  most 
splendid  coach.  Copper  Plate  Pannels  and  Painted 
Blush  Colour,  it  is  very  pretty  indeed. 

"  Sunday,  Oct.  2>otk.  We  paid  all  our  Bills  and 
took  leave  of  Margate  about  one  o'clock  and  set  off 
in  a  Post  Chaise  and  John  on  Horseback,  we  lay  at 
Feversham  that  night  and  set  out  at  Eight  on  Monday 
Morning  and  only  stopped  for  Chaises  on  the  Road 
and  got  safe  home  about  half  an  hour  after  four.  I 
was  but  poorly,  indeed  very  weak  and  low. 

"  Nov.  1st.  Saw  the  Doctor  he  said  I  had  bathed 
too  much.  I  bathed  25  times  in  five  weeks,  15  would 
have  been  enough  I  am  now  told,  however  I  must 
now  hope  for  the  best." 


1 


PERIOD     III. 

1774— 1781. 

This  Period  embraces  Francis's  residence  in  India,  his  correspondence 
with  various  friends  in  England — General  Eraser,  LfOyly,  Godfrey, 
John  Bourke,  and  Edmund  Burke.  At  the  same  time  we  have 
Mackrabie's  Journal  and  letters,  with  the  picture  of  social  life 
in  India  which  these  present.  In  Mrs.  Francises  Journal  we  have 
contrasting  pictures  of  hofne  and  social  life  in  England. 

This  Period  ends  with  Francis's  arrival  in  London,  October  igth, 
1781. 


MS 


PERIOD   III. 

1774—1781. 

Philip  Francis  and  his  secretary,  Alexander  Mack- 
rabie,  were  settled  at  Calcutta  in  October,  1774. 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  his  Father. 

"  Calcutta, 
"  November  30,  1774. 

"  My  dear  Sir, 

*•  You  have  the  particulars  of  our  History 
during  three  months  in  the  Copy  of  our  Journal  from 
the  Cape  hither.  It  comes  inclosed  with  this  Pacquet, 
and  was  transcribed  by  a  Man  who  can  no  more  read 
English,  than  I  can  write  Chinese,  but  is  nevertheless 
a  very  useful  Instrument  in  a  Secretary's  Office.  He 
is  by  Birth  and  Language  a  Hindoo  ; — by  Profession 
a  Banyan  or  Clerk, — he  is  moreover  an  indefatigable 
Copier,  and  as  he  writes  stark  naked,  I  have  no  fear 
of  his  stealing  my  papers  ;  so  that  you  must  admit  he 
is  a  person  very  fit  to  be  trusted.  He  is  at  present  of 
the  Gentoo  Religion ;  but  his  Attachment  to  his 
English  Masters,  added  I  presume  to  the  Examples 
of  Devotion  he  sees  in  this  Family,  have  inclined  him 
not  a  little  towards  Christianity.     Being  determined  to 


«i8  TTbe  jfrands  Xcttcrs  [1774 

turn  his  Application  to  good  Account,  he  has  thoughts 
of  acquiring  our  Faith  and  our  Language  at  the  same 
time,  and  has  accordingly  furnished  himself  with  a 
Dutch  English  Grammar,  and  a  Thomas  a  Kempis. 
It  is  matter  of  Doubt  with  me  which  he  will  edify  the 
most  by, — or  understand  the  least. — One  of  the  first 
Observations  we  made  here  was,  that  they  have  no 
Church.  The  same  Edifice  serves  upon  the  first  day 
of  the  week  for  the  Celebration  of  divine  Service,  and 
during  the  other  six  for  the  purpose  of  entering  of 
Goods  and  Collecting  of  Customs.  The  Company's 
Servants  were  much  amazed  to  see  us  go  thither  in  a 
Body  the  Sunday  after  our  Arrival  ;  but  we  afterwards 
perceived  with  pleasure  that  the  example  had  produced 
a  good  Effect,  tho'  not  sufficient  to  break  up  a  Sporting 
Club,  who  constantly  go  a  hunting  upon  that  day. 
We  hope  that  our  Friends  will  be  able  in  time  to 
bring  a  thorough  Reformation  of  Manners.  It  is  a 
Consummation  devoutly  to  be  wished  for — in  public 
as  well  as  private  Conduct. 

"  We  lost  poor  Campbell  at  sea.  He  died  as  we 
entered  Ballagon  Road.  No  other  Mortality  has 
taken  place  among  our  ship's  Company,  except  in  the 
Instance  of  the  Baker,  who,  as  soon  as  he  came  on 
shore,  dropt  suddenly  in  the  very  Act,  either  of 
making  or  of  eating  a  Pie.  But  we  have  been  cruelly 
alarmed.  Many  of  our  Friends  have  been  sick. 
Colonel  Monson  was  given  over  for  several  days,  but 
is  now  happily  recovered.  We  could  ill  have  spared 
him.  Indeed  the  world  can  .ill  spare  such  men. 
There  cannot  be  a  more  noble  or  a  more  amiable 
Character.     The  sickly  Season  is  now  entirely  over. 


1774]  Zbc  ifrancls  Xetters  219 

This  will  be  for  four  months  to  come,  the  most 
delightful  Climate  upon  Earth — like  an  English 
Spring,  an  unclouded  sky,  a  fresh  air,  and  perpetual 
Sunshine.     I  wear  a  Cloth  Suit  of  Cloathes." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Mr.  Eden. 

"  Calcutta, 
"7/A  Decent.,  lyj^ 

"  My  dear  Eden, 

"  If  I  had  not  wrote  to  you  at  all,  you  are 
bound  to  forgive  me.  All  the  engagements  of 
Business  I  have  had  in  Europe  or  in  America  were 
Child's  Play  compared  to  my  Occupations  here,  and 
nothing  less  than  the  example  I  have  hourly  before 
me  could  support  me  through  it.  You  see  I  am 
giving  myself  Consequence,  but  I  would  not  have 
you  conceive  that  it  is  the  pressure  of  Affairs  of 
State  which  lies  so  heavy  on  me. — My  Domestic 
Concerns  are  no  Trifle.  Scolding  Servants,  Buying 
Household  Goods,  Bespeaking  Dinners,  controlling 
accounts  of  black  Banyans  whose  zeal  to  cheat  us 
is  incredible.  We  had  25  Guests  at  Dinner  yester- 
day, 30  at  Breakfast  this  morning. — There  are  not 
less  than  100  Servants  in  our  Family.  Upon  so  vast 
a  scale  and  in  a  Country  of  whose  Language  I  do 
not  understand  10  words  think  only  how  we  must 
be  imposed  upon.  Besides  all  this,  it  is  impossible 
to  be  a  Moment  alone.  50  Black  Faces  took  Posses- 
sion of  our  Stair  Case  the  day  we  landed,  and  it  is 
impossible  to  get  rid  of  them  unless  we  could  blow 
them  up. 

"  Then   the    cursed   Examples  of  Parade  and  Ex- 
travagance  they    are    holding    up    for    ever    to   us. 


aao  Ubc  francts  Xetters  [1774 

•  Master  must  have  this. — Master  must  do  that.' 
A  Councillor  never  appears  in  the  Street  with  a 
Train  of  less  than  20  Fellows,  nor  walks  from 
one  Room  to  another  in  his  House,  unless  preceded 
by  4  Silver  Staves.  I  love  Luxury,  but  it  must 
be  a  comfortable,  a  solid  Luxury.  This  is  worse 
than  the  Hurry  of  an  Inn  at  an  Election.  What 
Improvement  India  may  make  in  my  Affairs  I  know 
not,  but  it  has  already  ruined  my  Temper.  Fare- 
well the  tranquil  Mind,  I  am  in  a  rage  from  Morning 
till  Night,  and  never  laugh  above  once  a  week, 
upon  the  few  occasions  when  we  get  together  en 
Families 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  a  Friend  in  America 

"  Calcutta, 
"20th  December,  1774. 

"  Dear  Sir, 

"  The  Members  of  the  Council  and  their 
several  Dependants  have  scarce  had  an  hour  of  Rest 
or  Quiet  since  their  landing.  Even  the  Recreations 
of  this  Country  are  little  Riots.  Thirty  people  at 
Breakfast,  fifty  at  Dinner.  Suppers  at  Midnight, 
Dances  till  Daylight.  But  we  are  reforming  apace. 
To  instance  the  Ceremonies  of  the  Table.  We  now 
only  toast  Healths  and  Sentiments  in  Gills  and  half 
pints  of  Claret.  Formerly  instead  of  drinking  a  Glass 
of  Wine  with  a  Gentleman  it  was  usual  to  throw  a 
chicken  at  his  Head, — while  the  ladies  pelted  with 
Sweetmeats  and  Pastry.  This  was  thought  Refine- 
ment in  Wit  and  Breeding. 

•'  The  Expenses  of  this  Settlement  are  beyond  all 


1774]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  221 

conception.  Mr.  F.  pays  ;^500  a  year  for  a  large 
but  mean  House  or  rather  Barn — with  bare  Walls — 
and  not  a  single  Glass  window.  His  Establishment 
of  Servants,  which  is  thought  pitiful,  consists  of  60 — 
I  maintain  15,  and  yet  am  forced  sometimes  to  clean 
my  own  Shoes.  My  greatest  Comfort  is  to  turn 
them  all  out  and  lock  the  Doors.  These  Brutes 
possess  every  bad  quality  except  Drunkenness  and 
Insolence,  indeed  they  make  full  amends  for  the  first 
by  stupifying  themselves  with  chewing  Bang — and 
their  want  of  the  other  is  perfectly  well  supplied  by 
a  most  provoking  Gravity  and  Indifference.  Thieves 
upon  Principle,  for  they  steal  what  they  cannot  either 
use  or  sell.  In  short  I  grow  a  perfect  Cynic, — and 
have  not  laughed  three  times  since  we  landed.  So 
much  for  our  History  within  Doors.  Without  it  is 
worse.  We  are  so  jaded  with  Parade  and  pompous 
Entertainments  that  I  have  more  than  once  feigned 
Sickness  to  avoid  them.  Many  Causes  have  con- 
spired towards  this  part  of  my  practical  Philosophy, 
not  the  least  of  which  is  the  Reflections  on  finding  a 
Country  once  the  richest  in  the  World  upon  the  Brink 
of  Ruin.  Its  Lands  neglected,  a  universal  Decay  of 
Manufacturers  and  Trade,  with  most  alarming  De- 
population, and  a  want  of  Circulating  Medium. 
Perhaps  even  this  Generation  may  read  of  the  Trade 
and  Riches  of  India,  as  they  do  of  Solomon's  Cargo, 
Gold  of  Ophir  and  Ships  of  Tarshish  ;  but  feel  as 
little  of  the  Effects  of  one  as  of  the  other.  But  what 
avails  a  chapter  of  Lamentation  to  you,  who  perhaps 
are  still  upon  the  Banks  of  the  Delaware  where 
Money    is    found   to  be    not    absolutely    essential    to 


22a  Ube  jprancts  Xctters  [177s 

Happiness,  and  where  fourpenny  Bits  will  go  to 
Market  as  freely  as  Hard  Dollars.  When  I  left 
England  I  gave  up  everything  in  America  except  my 
Correspondence,  and  a  Claim  to  the  Affectionate 
Remembrance  of  my  Friends ;  but  I  now  begin  to 
think  it  is  far  from  impossible  that  I  may  pass  the 
Evening  of  my  Days  there.  The  Harvest  is  over 
in  India  ;  and  England  will  not  be  supportable  with 
my  share  of  the  Gleanings." 

Writing  to  R.  Tilghman,  Mackrabie  says  : — 
"  When  virtue  and  justice  fled  from  Europe,  it 
was  not  in  Bengal  they  found  a  refuge.  Our  friends 
whom  the  Legislature  have  in  their  wisdom  sent 
here  for  the  better  regulating  the  affairs  of  the  East 
India  Company  have  employment  for  an  age.  Their 
hands,  heads  and  hearts  are  full.  .   .   . 

"  O laughs  at  my  rigid  virtue,  and  foretells  the 

dissolution  of  it  upon  the  first  approach  of  warm 
temptation.  I  would  laugh  with  him  if  the  subject 
were  not  too  serious  ;  but  with  the  noble  example  I 
have  every  hour  before  my  eyes,  I  would  remain 
intact.  I  am  well  enough  affected  towards  the  good 
things  of  this  life,  but  I  should  deserve  hanging  could 
I  be  base  enough  to  become  rich  by  unworthy 
means.  ..." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  his  Family. 

"  Calcutta, 
"i^Janu:  1775. 

"A.    M.    to  his  Friends  at  Fulham  and  In  Duke 
Street,  Greeting. 

"  I  wrote  to  my  dear  and  honoured  Father  by  the 


I77S]  TTbe  ifrancis  Xetters  223 

British  King.  You  would  by  the  same  Conveyance 
receive  a  Copy  of  our  Journal  from  the  Time  we  left 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  to  that  of  our  Arrival  at 
Calcutta.  I  have  now  left  off  Journalising  altogether, 
and  in  so  doing  I  act  doubtless  the  part  of  a  good 
Christian.  For  if  '  sufficient  unto  the  day  is  the  Evil 
thereof,'  we  have  no  right  to  plague  our  honest  Hearts 
and  those  of  our  Friends  with  a  Recollection  of  Evils 
which  are  past.  In  fact,  many  of  our  days  are 
marked  with  such  a  Superabundance  of  Vexation 
that,  if  we  were  not  determined  to  kick  our  Cares 
behind  us,  and  forget  them  with  all  our  Might,  we 
should  scarce  have  resolution  to  encounter  those  of 
the  time  to  come.  In  treating  of  this  Subject,  it  may 
be  proper,  in  order  to  avoid  Confusion,  to  distinguish 
our  Cares  under  their  several  heads.  We  have  public 
Cares  and  Domestic  ones.  Cares  general  and  particular 
Cares.  The  chief  Weight  of  public  Care  falls  upon 
Mr.  F.,  but  as  his  Spirit  and  Resolution  to  meet  it's 
attacks,  and  his  Abilities  to  counteract  and  overcome 
them,  are  beyond  all  Compare,  he  laughs  at  Diffi- 
culties and  indeed  gives  Vigor  to  us  all.  He  keeps 
four  of  us  in  constant  employment,  and  is  sometimes 
dictating  to  all  at  a  Time. 

"I  do  not  know  whether  the  Plagues  inseparable 
from  my  Office  of  Sheriff  should  properly  come  under 
the  head  of  public  or  particular  Cares.  By  the  way, 
there  is  something  whimsical  enough  in  this  business. 
Could  any  one  have  supposed  that  it  was  among  the 
Decrees  of  Fate,  and  moreover  should  have  become 
one  in  a  human  Record,  that,  on  the  20th  Day  of 
December    1774,  A.  M.    Jun^    should   be  sworn  in 


224  Zbc  ^rancts  Xettcrs  [1775 

High  Sheriff  of  Calcutta,  and  that  Samuel  Tolfrey  the 
younger  should  be  appointed  his  Deputy.  Yet  so  it 
is,  and  a  very  active  faithful  Assistant  I  have  hitherto 
found  him.  If  you  were  to  fall  in  the  Way  of  India 
People,  you  would  hear  wonderful  things  concerning 
this  same  Office  of  Sheriff.  You  might  be  told  as  I 
have  been,  that  it  has  yielded  a  profit,  30  and  in  one 
year  40,000  Rupees  (equal  to  from  3  to  near  4,000 
sterling  pounds).  There  is  such  a  Tradition,  but  it 
is  one  of  those  which  has  lost  nothing  in  handing 
down, — nor  should  I  have  quoted  it  but  in  order  to 
add,  that  I  am  assured  it  did  not  produce  above  a 
fourth  part  of  the  sum  last  year,  and  that  the  Experi- 
ence of  3  weeks  has  given  Birth  to  no  Idea  upon 
the  Subject,  in  me  or  in  my  Deputy,  Except  (after 
our  Obligations  to  the  Friends  who  honoured  us 
with  the  Nomination)  a  hearty  Desire  to  resign  it 
whenever  we  can  with  Credit.  The  Plague  and 
Trouble  we  meet  with  in  the  Execution  of  the  Duties 
are  inexpressible,  and  the  Honours  annexed  to 
the  Office  do  not  much  lighten  the  Burthen  of  it. 
For  whether  I  am  taking  a  survey  of  the  Jail  and 
the  Felons  committed  to  my  Charge, — receiving 
Petitions  from  Prisoners — or  executing  Warrants 
to  add  to  their  Numbers,  planning  Modes  of  arrest 
with  Bailiffs,  or  marching  in  all  the  Pomp  of  White 
Staves,  Halberds  &  Maces,  before  my  Lords  the 
Judges,  to  Court,  &  lolling  upon  a  velvet  Cushion 
by  their  side,  within  it — I  feel  myself  out  of  my 
Element,  and  wish  the  Law  and  the  Execution 
of  it, — together  with  all  its  Forms,  Members, 
&  Apurtenances — at  the  D ." 


1775]  ^bc  frauds  Xetters  225 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  his  Family. 

"  24/A  February,  1775. 

*•  My  dearest  Father  and  Friends, 

"  I  wrote  to  you  by  last  Ship  ;  but  of  what 
date  I  do  not  pretend  to  recollect.  I  am  now  actually 
writing  in  the  Country,  at  a  small  Lodge  which  Mr.  F. 
has  purchased  in  the  Neighbourhood  of  Calcutta.  He 
is  so  charmed  with  it,  that  he  has  not  slept  one  Night 
in  Town,  during  the  week  he  has  had  possession  of 
it.  He  talks  already  of  quitting  Calcutta,  or  of  having 
only  a  small  House  by  way  of  Office  &  Dressing  Room. 
In  fact  it  is  a  delicious  spot.  The  House  consists 
of  a  spacious  Hall  and  four  Chambers,  surrounded 
by  a  Verandah  or  Colonnade,  and  stands  in  the  midst 
of  20  Acres  of  Ground  pleasant  to  the  last  Degree 
something  between  a  Lawn  and  a  Park.  We  talk 
of  farming,  and  feeding  Pigs  &  Poultry — and  making 
Butter.  The  air,  the  Exercise,  everything  contributes 
to  Health  &  Cheerfulness.  Hither  Mr.  F.  will  retire 
from  the  Cares  of  the  Council,  and  toil  in  his  Garden 
among  Gentoos  and  Mussulmen.  He  wanted  a 
Retreat  from  Care  and  Vexation,  and  his  Looks 
already  shew  that  he  has  found  it.  We  have  formed 
some  excellent  Plans,  and  are  determined  to  lead  a 
thorough  new  Life.  None  but  Friends  are  to  be 
admitted  here.  Lady  Impey  yesterday.  Lady  Anne 
&  Col.  Monson  to-day.  If  you  could  all  be  trans- 
ported in  an  Instant  to  Bengal  (Asia  you  know  has 
ever  been  the  Land  of  Inchantments) — we  should 
become  thoroughly  indifferent  about  England. 

"  I  promised  to  give  you  an  account  of  our  Manner 
of  Living  in  Calcutta.     It   will  be  rather  a  splenetic 

15 


226  TTbc  Francis  Xetters  [1775 

one,  but  I  must  not  delay  it  since  it  is  probable  that 
a  Month  hence,  we  might  be  described  as  not  only 
being  surrounded  by  Devils,  but  as  actually  broiling 
in  an  Infernal  Region  of  our  own.  I  speak  of  Calcutta 
in  April. 

"  You  know  our  Family.  Messrs.  Livius  and 
Collings  are  Inmates.  Mr.  F.  still  maintains  Macleod 
and  Black  Tom.  They  both  prove  trusty  and  assure 
us  they  are  as  happy  as  Bengal  can  make  them. 
Tom  eats  and  sleeps  and  makes  the  most  of  the 
present  Hour.  Macleod  is  resolved  to  provide  for  a 
future  Day.  He  therefore  trades,  and  buys  Bargains 
and  employs  his  Leisure  in  the  Study  of  Physic, 
and  the  Practise  of  Drinking  Brandy.  I  shall  claim 
the  Privilege  of  a  Letter  writer  and  describe  my 
own  Establishment  first.  It  consists  of  a  Sircar,  or 
Broker  and  Interpreter, — a  Jemmadar  who  stands  at 
my  Door,  receives  Messages,  announces  Visitors,  and 
also  runs  by  the  side  of  my  Palanquin  to  clear  the 
Way.  This  Varlet  is  a  tall  Man,  with  a  most 
respectable  pair  of  Whiskers,  and  moreover,  wears 
a  Dagger  in  his  Sash  decorated  with  gold  Tassels. 
I  am  preceeded  in  all  my  Peregrinations  by  2  Peons 
or  running  Footmen,  and  as  many  Hircarahs,  or 
Messengers.  These  Gentry,  being  all  furnished  at 
the  expense  of  the  Company  as  an  Appendage  to 
my  Office  of  Sheriff,  I  am  only  at  the  Expense  of 
a  Kistmungar,  literally  Servant  of  all  Work,  but  as 
mine  proved  to  be  a  Servant  of  no  Work,  I  have 
just  discharged  him.  8  Bearers  for  my  Palanquin 
compleat  my  Train.  I  would  keep  a  Horse  but 
positively   I   cannot  afford  it.     Mr.    F.  keeps  5,  and 


1 775]  ^be  jfrancis  Xetters  272 

according  to  the  cursed  Fashion  of  this  idle  Country, 
has  10  Fellows  to  look  after  them,  besides  a  Coachman 
to  keep  the  whole  in  Order.     He  has  moreover  12 
Palanquin    Bearers  for   no   reason    that    I    can    learn 
except  his  being  a  Councillor,  4  Peons,  4  Hircarahs, 
2   Chubdars   who  carry   Silver  Staves,   2  jemmadars. 
These  are   without    Doors.      Within  a  head  Sircar, 
or    Banyan,    a    Broker,  or  Agent,   who  sees  that  he 
is   cheated  in    due    Form,    and    who    has    a    Feeling 
in  everything  that  Master  buys,  who   has   his  Spies 
over  everything  that  Master  does,  and  whose  Attention 
and    Officiousness   carries   him,   into    the    Study,    the 
Bedchamber,  and  makes  him  a  Party  in  every  matter 
transacted  in  the  House.     House  keeping  Comprador 
and  his  Mate  go  to  Market,   2  Coolies  bring  Home 
what   he   buys,  Consomar  takes  charge  of  it.    Cook 
and  2  Mates  dress  it.     Baker  in  the  House.     Butler 
and  his    Assistant  take  charge   of   Liquors,    Habdar 
and  his  Mate  cool  them.     2  Sideboard  Men  wait  at 
Table.     House,   2   Matrannees  to  clean  it,   2  Watch- 
men to  guard  it,  a  Durwan  to  keep  the  door.     Taylor, 
Washerman     &     Ironing     Man     for     each     person, 
Mashargues,    Torch-bearers,  Mr.  F.   4,  M.   2,  Li.    i, 
C.  I .     We  make  a  flaming  funeral  appearance  together. 
Two  Maullies  or  Gardeners,  Cow  and  Poultry  Feeder, 
Mr.  F.  62       Pork  Man,  his  Office  &c.,  &c.     Let  me 
T^-^%)  ^°       ^^^'     ^"^  hundred  and  10  Servants  to 
Colls.) -^       wait  upon  a  Family  of  4  People.     Oh! 
"°       Monstrous,  and  yet  we  are  (Economists. 
"  Tell    me    if  this    Land  does  not  want   weeding. 
We  rise  either  in  Town  or  Country  about  6.     Mr.  F. 
then  rides  for   an    hour.     Breakfast   before  8,     Tw 


228  XTbc  fvancis  Xetters  [1775 

mornings  in  the  Week  are  public,  we  then  sit  down 
30,  frequently  more.  At  9  or  10  Mr.  F.  goes  to 
Council — returns  at  2,  3,  4,  or  5  to  dine.  This 
happens  5  Days  in  the  Week,  seldom  sit  2  hours, 
then  to  Bed  to  digest — rise  at  Sunset — and  take  an 
Airing  in  your  Carriage  if  you  have  one,  else  walk 
as  I  do — return  to  Tea  then  dress  to  visit — little  Card 
playing,  late  Suppers — in  10  Minutes  after  your 
Return  Home  the  Servants  desert,  and  leave  you 
to  your  Meditations.  Your  Mansion  becomes  a 
Desart  and  may  be  burned.  You  may  be  sick — or 
robbed — or  perish  for  want  of  Water.  In  order  to 
prevent  these  Calamities,  we  each  retain  a  Body 
servant,  who  is  of  no  other  Use,  as  the  others  will 
not  wait  with  them,  except  in  case  of  Sickness,  when 
the  Natives  constantly  desert  and  generally  rob  you. 
You  are  now  pretty  well  acquainted  with  Bengal  and 
its  customs,  as  well  nearly  as  myself.  I  have  not 
been  6  Miles  out  of  Calcutta  since  I  entered  it,  and 
go  as  seldom  as  possible  out  of  the  House.  The 
absurd  Routine  I  have  described  makes  no  part  of 
our  Plan.  We  generally  drive  en  Famille,  seldom 
visit  &  still  seldomer  sup  out.  We  find  Comforts 
at  Home.     L.  plays  the  Harpsichord,  C.  fiddles,'  and 

^^  ^"  ^^"g^-  •'  Farewell  all. 

"A.  M." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Richard  Tilghman. 

"Calcutta, 
,,11*  -r  "26  February,  1775. 

"  My  dear  Tilghman, 

"  The  Dissensions  which  have  prevailed  here 
during  the  last  four  Months,  with  their  several  Causes, 


i77s]  Ube  iprancis  Xetters  229 

will  have  fully  appeared  in  the  Political  World,  before 
this  comes  to  your  hands.  You  will  meet  with 
characters,  Opinions  and  Facts  which  will  amaze  you. 
Our  friends  have  been  active  and — if  there's  a  Power 
above  us — who  delights  in  Virtue,  Justice,  and  Bene- 
volence, they  must  be  successful.  Madness  may  recall 
them.  Every  Principle  of  wise  Policy  will  concur 
in  fixing  them  here  and  enlarging  their  Power.  In 
the  latter  Case  F.  must  be  eminent.  With  this 
Prospect  I  venture  to  give  you  the  following  En- 
couragement for  undertaking  a  Voyage,  which  I  wish 
no  Friend  to  make  in  vain,  or  to  repeat.  You  know 
the  last  Ship  for  India  sails  the  end  of  March.  Come 
directly  to  London.  You  will  there  be  fully  informed 
of  the  State  of  Affairs,  and  able  to  judge  for  yourself. 
The  means  of  your  getting  out  shall  be  provided,  with 
every  necessary  Instruction  for  the  Voyage.  When 
you  are  here,  you  must  run  our  Fortunes.  Against 
these  inducements  put  in  your  Scale,  and  weigh 
well, — the  Nature  of  your  present  Engagements  and 
farther  Views  in  America.  You  are  in  a  large  Circle 
of  Friends,  in  a  favourable  Climate,  where  indeed  there 
is  not  a  profusion  of  Money,  but  where  Happiness 
is  attainable  without  it.  There  are  Chances  against 
you  here,  not  any  that  regard  the  Affections  of  your 
Friends  or  their  Zeal  for  your  Interest.  Those  can 
only  cease  with  their  Existence.  But  Men  are  not 
immortal, — at  least  in  Asia.  Weigh  all  this,  decide, 
&  Act.  Francis  approves  and  confirms  all  I  have 
written.  I  can  say  no  more.  Love  to  everybody 
with  you.     Farewell. 

-A.  M." 


23©  Ube  francts  Xetters  [1775 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Richard  Tilghman. 

"  Calcutta, 
"  15/A  March,  1775. 

"  My  dear  Tilghman, 

"  I  wrote  to  you  the  26th  of  last  Month.  .  .  . 
The  Thomas's,  the  Morris's,  the  Dennys,  and  your 
whole  line  of  Rulers,  from  the  first  Penn  with  the 
Broad  Brim,  down  to  the  present  Day — cannot  furnish 
out  such  a  Governor  as  H.  The  Debates  in  your 
Colony  Councils  are  the  Squabbles  of  Boys  about 
Tops  and  Marbles,  compared  to  the  Dissention  which 
prevails  here.  .  .  . 

"It  were  endless  to  attempt  giving  Particulars  of 
the  late  Misgovernment  of  this  once  rich  and  flourish- 
ing Country.  Fraud  Oppression  and  Peculation 
appear  daily  in  such  a  Variety  of  Shapes,  and  to 
an  Extent  that  never  disgraced  the  Annals  of  any 
other  Empire.  ...  It  has  hitherto  been  held  mean- 
ness in  Bengal  to  examine  an  account,  and  (^Economy 
has  become  infamous." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  his  Father. 

"  Calcutta, 
"23r<f  March,  1775. 

"  My  dear  Sir, 

"  It  is  a  pity  the  weather  grows  so  insuffer- 
ably hot,  as  it  prevents  my  seeing  much  of  the 
Ceremonies  of  the  Natives  at  their  high  Festivals. 
This  is  the  Season  of  Jollity  among  both  Gentoos 
and  Musselmen.  Mr.  F.'s  house  is  surrounded  with 
Mosques  &  Pagodas,  where  they  make  Night  and 
Day  such  a  cursed  Clatter  with  Drums,  cimbals,  Horns 


1775]  XTbe  ifrancis  Xetters  231 

and  Pans,  that  you  would  think  a  Legion  of  Devils 
were  keeping  Jubilee, — Unite  the  Concerts  at  Bar- 
tholomew Fair  with  the  Melody  of  a  Copper  Mill, 
add  the  Cawing  of  1000  Crows,  and  the  Screams  of 
an  Army  of  Jackals  :  suppose  all  this  continued  with 
unremitting  Resolution  for  a  week  and  you  have 
some  Idea  of  the  Kind  of  Harmony  which  has  lately 
tormented  us.  .  .  .  The  Moorsi  Holiday  closed  with  a 
Grand  Procession  of  Pageants,  attended  by  innumer- 
able Flags.  Elephants  with  Castles,  Madmen  Dancing 
and  Fencing  and  wounding  themselves  with  Sabres 
and  Knives,  some  with  Pincers  pulling  out  their  own 
Beards,  and  Lugging  their  Ears,  some  poking  sticks 
into  their  Eyes,  others  entertaining  themselves  with 
hearty  flogging  with  an  Instrument  called  by  Sailors 
the  Cat,  and  the  whole  Company  at  proper  Intervals 
thumping  their  Breasts  with  astonishing  Zeal  and 
Violence.  .  .  . 

"  All  this,  my  good  Sir,  absurd  as  it  appears,  is 
sound  Policy.  The  Brahmins  make  a  jest  of  it ;  but 
they  find  their  Interest,  and  so  have  the  Princes  of 
the  Country  thro'  all  Ages,  in  strengthening  this 
Passion  for  Ceremonial  in  the  Vulgar,  and  their 
Idea  of  the  Virtue  and  Sanctity  of  the  water  of  the 
Ganges,  their  attachment  to  their  Native  Country 
and  Horror  of  every  other  Climate.  Without  these 
Prejudices  it  would  have  been  impossible  to  have  main- 
tained the  Population,  Cultivation,  and  Manufactures 
of  this  vast  Empire,  under  so  many  Revolutions. 

"  They  have  all  been  wonderfully  preserved,  and 
nothing  less  than  a  British  Government  could  effect 
their  Ruin." 


232  Ube  jprancis  Xetters  [177s 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  the  Rev.  Stephen  Baggs. 

"Fort  William,   1775. 

"  My  dear  Friend, 

"  When  you  read  and  hear  of  the  active  part 
our  Friend  has  taken  in  the  Administration  of  Affairs, 
you  may  imagine  he  keeps  his  Dependants  in  constant 
Employment.  The  Ships  of  this  Season  carry  home 
more  Matter,  and  I  believe,  not  less  Bulk  than  any 
which  have  been  despatched  since  the  days  of 
Aliverdy  Cawn.  .   .  . 

"It  has  pleased  Heaven  to  make  me  (for  my 
Offences)  High  Sheriff  of  Calcutta.  Bating  the 
Honour,  it  is,  under  favour,  the  most  cursed  Ofifice 
that  ever  was  held  by  a  Sinner.  The  only  Comfort 
I  enjoy  in  it  is, — the  Reflection  that  somebody  who 
possessed  it  sometime  ago,  made  Three  thousand 
Pounds  a  year  by  it.  I  am  almost  broken-hearted — 
and  literally  out  of  Pocket.  My  Deputy  insists  that 
we  shall  have  Statues  erected  to  our  Honours, — I 
pray  Heaven  I  keep  clear  of  hanging — myself 

"  Tell  me,  my  Friend,  shall  we  ever  meet  altogether 
again  ?  Yours  is  a  good  Life  and  cannot  well  fail. 
The  Major's  is  not  much  worse,  provided  he  will 
exchange  Pall  Mall  &  St.  James's  for  Hertfordshire. 
The  House  of  Godfrey  is  immortal. — I  have  a 
thousand  Apprehensions  for  my  Sister, — and  a  kind 
of  Feeling  for  her  children,  which  I  may  as  well  not 
attempt  to  describe.  I  wish  the  Husband  and  Father 
of  that  Family  were  as  secure  of  Health  and  Long 
Life  as  he  is  of  immortal  Honour — my  old  Folks 
have  settled  their  Accounts  with  both  Worlds — They 


1775]  ^be  ifrancts  Xetters  233 

are  upon  the  Threshold,  and  less  than  a  Miracle  can 
never  give  me  another  Sight  of  them.  I  may  perhaps, 
(if  I  escape  all  the  unaccountable  Dangers  of  this 
Climate)  return  to  Europe  at  fifty,  whether  or  no  that 
is  an  Object,  I  shall  not  pretend  to  determine.  I 
shall  by  that  time  have  outlived  every  sense  of 
Enjoyment — At  least  every  Passion  worth  gratifying. 
I  shall  return  too  poor  for  England — and  too  old 
for  America.  I  wish  Dick  Tilghman  was  here.  Worse 
Pleaders  make  Fortunes.  We  want  such  Folks  as 
you  &  him  &  a  few  other  Friends — to  laugh  with, 
to  unbend,  to  join  in  driving  Care  away — &  above 
all  to  trust. 

*'  I  begin  almost  to  doubt  of  my  own  Moral 
Character  in  this  Cursed  Country — though  I  am 
inclined  to  think  that  I  am,  (comparatively  at  least,) 
a  strict  Observer  of  some  few  Negative  Virtues.  .  .  . 
We  are  upon  excellent  terms  with  the  Clergy  here. 
They  are  not  numerous,  but  thoroughly  orthodox. 
One  rivals  Nimrod  in  hunting — a  second  supplies 
Bullocks  for  the  Army — another  is  a  perfect  Con- 
noisseur in  Chinese  Gardening.  I  endeavour  to  obtain 
some  Light  from  them  all,  but  the  Fear  of  God  is 
not  the  Kind  of  Wisdom  most  in  Request  in  Bengal. 
"  Farewell  dear  Sir  :  I  am  very  faithfully, 

"Yours,  A.  M." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  to  Mrs.  Francis. 

"  Calcutta, 
"25M  March,  1775. 

"  My  dearest  Sister, 

"  I  at  last  sit  quietly  down  for  a  few  minutes 
but  it  is  to  tell  you  that  I  am  nearly  worn  out.     Next 


234  Ubc  jfrancis  Xcttcrs  [1775 

to  hearing  from  you,  which  is  almost  a  vain  Expecta- 
tion, I  promise  myself  sovereign  Comfort  in  writing 
to  you, — and  a  Letter  without  one  Line  of  Politics 
is  as  refreshing  as  Ice  Cream  in  Summer.  .  .  .  The 
Ruffles  are  in  excellent  Preservation,  often  looked 
at  and  admired.  Mangoes  shall  be  sent  in  great 
Quantities  next  Season,  we  were  too  late  for  the 
present.  ...  How  cruel  it  is  that  the  Court  of 
Directors  will  not  indulge  us  with  a  Pacquet.  It  is 
near  12  months  my  dear  Sister,  since  we  saw  or 
heard  of  you, — a  little  Eternity.  .  .  .  The  Rage  of 
sending  young  People  to  Bengal  must  subside.  .  .  . 

"  A  thousand  loves  and  Blessings  to  the  dear  Girls 
and  Boy.     Farewell,  Farewell. 

"A.  M." 


We  now  take  up  Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  from 
November,  1774.  On  Saturday,  November  12th, 
Mrs.  Francis  went  to  visit  her  friends  at  Twickenham. 

Mrs.  Francis's  Journal. 

"  Tuesday,  Nov.  2nd.  A  bad  snowy  day,  did  not 
go  out,  Mrs.  H olden  read  Joseph  Andrews,  and  Polly 
and  I  worked,  and  at  Night  played  at  Tredille. 

"  Thursday,  2\th.  Mrs.  Holden  read  to  us  till  one 
o'clock  and  then  got  in  the  Coach  for  a  Ride,  saw  Mr. 
Briscoe,  he  told  me  abruptly  Lord  Clive  was  Dead,  I 
was  struck  with  surprise,  called  at  the  Coffee  House 
for  the  Paper,  there  it  was  set  down  at  full  length,  he 
dyed  on  Tuesday  last  of  an  Apoplectic  Fit  at  his 
House  in  Berkeley  Square,  what  must  not  his  amiable 
Wife  feel,   I   am  so  much  concerned,  so  indeed  are 


1774]  trbe  jfrancia  Xetters  235 

Mrs.  H olden  and  my  dear  Polly  that  we  hardly  know 
what  we  say,  God's  will  be  done,  but  his  worthy  family 
are  much  to  be  pitied,  I  wrote  to  Mrs.  D'Oyly  to  beg 
her  to  send  my  Compts.  &c.  and  to  know  how  they 
all  do,  she  will   send  me  an  answer. 

"  Wednesday,  T,otk.  I  received  a  very  kind  Letter 
from  Mrs.  D'Oyly  in  which  she  says  poor  Lady  Clive 
bears  up  surprisingly  under  her  great  affliction. 

"  Wednesday i  Dec.  jtk.  Received  a  letter  from 
my  Father  who  told  me  a  ship  was  soon  to  sail 
for  Bengal  so  I  determined  to  come  to  Town  to 
be  prepared. 

"  Dec.  ()tk.  Took  leave  of  my  Good  Friends  and 
came  with  Collins  in  a  Post  Chaise  to  Town. 

''Monday,  Dec.  i2tk.  Mr.  Godfrey  came  to  see 
me,  and  Major  Baggs,  he  is  just  from  Bath,  says  our 
fine  new  Rooms  are  almost  shut  up  there  by  a  Quarrel 
with  the  lower  ones,  they  are  going  to  build  a  Ball 
Room  to  Guides  Rooms  so  I  fear  I  must  not  expect 
any  advantage  from  there  this  year. 

"  Tuesday,  i^th.  Mr.  Marsh  called  on  me  and  is 
to  introduce  Capt.  Bromfield  of  the  Salisbury,  by  whom 
I  am  to  send  a  Letter  to  you.  Mr.  Marsh  begged  I 
would  write  to  you  by  way  of  Introduction. 

''Friday,  i6tk.  I  had  a  Letter  from  good  Lady 
Clive,  in  which  she  desires  to  see  me  and  says  she 
ever  wishes  to  look  on  me  in  the  light  of  a  Friend 
and  not  as  an  Acquaintance. 

"  Sunday,  Dec.  \Zth.  In  the  evening  I  had  a  Chair 
and  went  to  pay  that  melancholy  visit  to  good  Lady 
Clive,  at  first  the  Servant  refused  me,  not  knowing 
me  for  the  old  Porter  is  gone,  the  number  of  Servants 


236  XTbe  ifrands  Xctters  [1774 

are  much  lessened,  however  after  reading  my  Ticket 
the  Servant  admitted  me  and  I  went  upstairs  into  the 
Front  Drawing  Room  where  I  have  spent  so  many 
happy  hours.  There  was  all  the  dismal  Family,  the 
dear  Lady  herself  came  up  to  me  and  took  me  by  the 
hand  and  kissed  me  most  affectionately.  I  then  sat 
down  by  Mrs.  Archdeacon  Clive  who  I  endeavoured 
to  talk  to,  but  my  trembling  was  so  great  for  a  few 
minutes  that  I  could  not  utter,  however  I  thank  God 
I  got  the  better  of  it  and  made  my  proper  Compts.  to 
every  one  of  the  family.  The  Young  Lord  is  come 
home  and  his  Mother  presented  him  to  me,  he  seems 
a  modest  genteel  Young  Man  very  much  like  his  poor 
Father.  Capt.  Clive  was  there  and  Mrs.  George 
Clive,  poor  Mr.  King  as  usual,  Mrs.  Strachey,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  D'Oyly,  Mr.  Walsh  &c.,  the  dear,  good 
Lady  Clive  looks  but  poorly  in  her  melancholy  dress, 
but  behaves  as  well  as  you  or  anyone  would  expect 
her  to  do,  she  seems  quite  composed  and  calm,  but  in 
spite  of  every  thing  her  Tears  will  burst  forth.  Not 
in  tumultuous  Sorrow,  but  in  quiet,  settled  grief  Her 
behaviour  to  me  was  more  kind  and  affectionate  than 
it  ever  was  and  she  spoke  of  you  so  tenderly  I  can 
hardly  write  on  the  subject ;  but  she  says  she  fears  it 
won't  be  in  her  power  to  write  to  you  herself,  but  she 
has  got  Miss  Ducarel  (who  I  must  say  seems  a  partner 
in  her  Afflictions)  to  write  to  you  by  her  directions. 
The  young  Ladys  look  well  and  behave  as  properly  as 
can  be  on  this  unhappy  Occasion.  I  came  home 
about  nine  o'clock. 

"  Tuesday,  Dec.  20th.     Last  night  I  drank  Tea  with 
Miss   Lownds  and  saw   several    of  my    Westminster 


1774]  ^be  jfrancis  Xettcrs  237 

neighbours   all   of  whom   enquired   very   particularly 
after  you. 

"  I  must  not  omit  before  I  close  This  Pacquet  to 
give  you  some  account  of  our  Cat  Tom,  he  is  recilly  in 
good  health  and  condescends  to  come  up  in  the 
Evening  to  carress  me  a  little  and  I  often  think  he 
smells  about  for  you  and  seems  to  ask  where  you  are 
and  how  you  do,  he  is  grown  fat  since  his  indisposition 
in  the  Summer,  I  then  had  an  Apothecary's  Opinion 
and  he  gave  him  Physic  which  entirely  restored  him 
to  health,  so  much  for  Tom.  I  must  now  say  some- 
thing of  Sally  Bussy,  I  see  her  pretty  often,  sometimes 
to  dine  with  me.  .  .  .  she  is  not  very  well,  Mr.  Adair 
has  ordered  her  an  Issue  in  her  Leg  and  she  is  a  little 
lame  with  it.  She  is  in  a  Lodging  and  has  let  her 
House  for  Six  months  at  fourscore  Guineas,  so  she  is 
now  in  pretty  good  spirits. 

''Jan.  ^tk,  1775.  The  Girls  have  been  below  in  the 
Parlour  with  their  dancing  Master,  Mr.  Villeneuve, 
who  I  have  engaged  to  come  to  teach  them  both  [Sally 
and  Betsy,  who  had  left  school,  aged  1 2  and  r  i  years]. 
He  is  to  have  2  Guineas  for  eight  lessons  for  each 
of  them.  So  my  money  goes,  but  I  hope  it  will  be 
for  their  advantage. 

"  Wednesday y  nth.  By  invitation  I  and  my  three 
girls  went  in  the  afternoon  to  visit  Mrs.  Chitty,  she 
was  very  kind  to  the  Girls  and  is  quite  in  Love  with 
Sally  because  she  is  so  like  you,  her  dear,  dear  Boy  as 
she  always  calls  you  and  then  she  cryes.  She  says 
she  lives  in  hopes  to  see  you,  if  not  she  says  you 
must  be  told  how  much  she  loves  you. 

"  I  am  now  in  a  great  hurry  to  send  this  Letter  as 


238  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [177s 

Mr.  Strachey  told  me  the  Ships  were  to  sail  in  a  day 
or  two — I  hope  my  dear  Mack  and  you  are  both  well 
and  quite  happy,  how  much  I  long  to  hear  of  you 
both,  but  that  cannot  be  for  some  months.  I  thank 
God  I  am  pretty  well  and  all  my  Girls  well  and  good, 
we  read,  work,  dance  and  play  in  turn  and  are  very 
happy,  the  little  ones  grow  much  and  I  have  determined 
to  send  Mary  to  school  with  Harriet  after  the  holidays. 
Every  body  thinks  me  right.  She  is  a  fine  child  and 
it  is  time  to  send  her  out  from  the  Servants — I 
don't  mind  the  money  for  her  advantage. 

"  Tuesday,  Feb.  i&^th,  is  the  day  in  the  Week  we 
have  all  our  Masters  because  I  have  a  fire  lighted  in 
the  Parlour  that  the  Girls  may  not  be  interrupted  in 
case  of  Company.  The  drawing  Master  comes  to 
Betsy  at  half  an  hour  past  nine  in  the  morning,  then 
we  walk,  at  half  past  Twelve  comes  Mr.  Ribouville 
and  stays  an  hour,  and  at  six  in  the  Evening  the 
dancing  Master  Mr.  Villeneuve  comes  so  we  are 
always  engaged  in  study  that  day  of  the  Week. 

"  Sunday y  Feb.  \^th.  I  and  my  two  Girls  went  to 
Church,  afterwards  walked  up  to  the  Top  of  Con- 
stitution Hill  and  back  ;  in  the  afternoon  we  all  three 
drank  Tea  at  Dr.  Campbell's,  they  are  both  pretty 
well,  but  were  not  quite  satisfied  with  their  Son's 
Letter, — it  was  too  short  and  made  them  uneasie  to 
hear  he  had  never  been  quite  well  since  he  had  left 
England.  By  my  Brother's  Letter  I  thought  every 
one  in  the  Ship  had  enjoyed  their  health.  I  thank 
God  you  and  my  dear  Mac  have  been  perfectly 
well  all  the  Voyage.  At  Dr.  Campbells  there  were 
six   gentlemen   and    their    Conversation    seemed    all 


1775]  ^bc  3f rands  Xetters  339 

Political,  I  did  not  much  attend,  if  I  had,  could  not 
have  understood  them. 

"  Monday,  20th.  In  the  afternoon  I  and  my  Misses 
walked  to  Mr.  Ribouvilles,  it  being  dancing  day  and 
together  with  the  five  boys  and  Teacher  made  a  good 
Cotillon,  Clive  would  dance  with  Miss  Francis  and 
Harvey  with  Betsy,  Philip  seems  as  if  he  would  dance 
well,  I  think  he  improves  very  much  in  every  thing 
and  the  boys  are  all  so  happy  and  fond  of  each  other, 
it  would  be  great  pleasure  to  you  to  see  them.  We 
staid  till  past  eight  and  had  a  coach  home. 

''  2\st.  I  have  many  Cards  for  Parties,  but  hardly  ever 
go  to  any,  my  Girls  are  employment  enough  for  me  and 
they  are  too  young  to  go  into  Publick  Company.  Mrs. 
Chandler  thinks  they  may  next  year,  but  I  think  not. 

"  I  must  close  this — Mr.  Ribouville  has  been  here 
to-day  and  begs  his  Compts.,  he  says  your  Girls  come 
on  well  and  that  I  am  a  good  french  Scholar.  My 
good  Father  and  Mother  are  both  well,  poor  Patty 
but  poorly.  My  dear  Brother's  Letters  made  my 
Father  as  happy  as  the  return  of  the  Prodigal  Son — 
my  Father  rejoiced  and  made  merry.  My  best  love 
and  affection  always  attend  my  dear  Brother,  I  pray 
for  him  daily  and  his  Success  at  the  same  time  as  for 
my  dearest  Husband,  pray  my  dear  Mack  accept  my 
truest  Love  together  with  the  duty  of  your  five  nieces 
and  nephew.  Adieu  my  dearest  Love,  I  cannot  put 
into  words  what  I  feel  when  I  think  and  speak  of  you. 
Your  Letter  is  a  Continual  Feast  and  I  have  it 
almost  by  heart. 

"  22nd.  Finished  my  Journal  and  dispatched  it, 
and  begin  another. 


240  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  [1775 

"  Saturday,  March  \%th.  In  the  afternoon  all  three 
of  us  went  to  Lady  Clives,  the  children  were  charmed 
with  each  other,  Lady  Clive  is  always  good  to  us  all, 
Lord  Chancellor's  four  Daughters  were  there  and  a 
Fiddler  was  sent  for  and  a  good  sort  of  a  Dance  made 
out,  the  Girls  ate  a  bit  of  Tart  and  we  all  came  home 
before  Ten.  .  .  . 

"  Thursday,  March  2>^th.  This  is  the  day  that 
gave  me  the  sorest  Heart  12  months  ago,  I  ever  felt. 
I  pray  God  grant  you  may  now  be  in  good  health  and 
Happiness,  neither  of  which  I  enjoy,  as  to  health  I 
am  but  poorly  tho'  better,  but  I  am  weak,  however 
I  hope  to  mend,  as  to  Happiness,  I  endeavour  after 
content  which  is  as  much  as  I  have  any  right  to, 
and  I  fear  more  than  I  can  yet  attain  to." 

In  May  Mrs.  Francis  went  to  Hampstead  with  her 
daughter  Sally,  to  drink  the  waters.  She  continues 
the  Journal  from  that  place : — 

"  Sunday,  May  \^th.  Drank  the  Waters  and  had 
a  long  Walk,  Collins  had  a  dream  about  hasty  News, 
riding  &c.,  which  She  was  sure  would  turn  out  some- 
thing great,  and  how  do  you  think,  but  a  most 
welcome  Packet  sent  me  by  the  Stage,  how  great 
was  my  Joy,  I  trembled,  I  could  hardly  open  it,  yet 
my  impatience  made  me  tear  all  the  outside  Covers 
to  pieces,  and  when  I  saw  from  whom  it  came  my 
veneration  and  affection  for  whom  it  came  from,  made 
me  put  the  pieces  together  and  proceed  to  the  reading 
which  gave  me  the  greatest  Joy  when  I  found  you 
was  come  so  far  safe  and  in  good  health.     I  pray  you 


1775]  XTbe  I'rancig  Xetters  24 » 

may  conclude  this  long  Voyage  to  all  your  satis- 
factions. As  to  your  all  being  heartily  sick  of  your 
Confinement  I  don't  wonder  at  it,  but  patience,  My 
dear  Philip  will  conquer  everything.  I  am  in  some 
small  degree  sensible  how  very  disagreeable  so  long 
a  confinement  in  one  Place  must  be  to  you  in 
particular,  and  feel  for  you,  yet  as  it  has  pleased 
God  to  bring  you  so  far  safe,  we  must  not  repine ; 
Your  society  was  pleasing,  and  tho'  Calms,  Contrary 
Winds  and  many  other  unpleasing  things  will  some- 
times interfere,  yet  I  hope  you  did  not  lose  sight 
of  so  great  a  Blessing  as  your  Safety ;  forgive  my 
moralizing,  I  feel  everything  in  the  strongest  Sense 
that  relates  to  you  my  dearest  Philip. 

"  Mrs.  Chitty  and  Harriet  drank  Tea  with  me  on 
Sunday  and  she  begged  me  to  read  only  a  few  lines 
of  your  Letter  to  her,  I  could  not  refuse  and  my 
Vanity  led  me  to  read  some  parts  of  those  tender 
expressions  you  use  to  me  and  my  dear  children  ; 
likewise  some  of  the  Copy  of  your  former  one 
in  which  you  say  my  Brother  paints  and  draws 
Pictures  like  a  Dragon.  At  this  she  roared  out 
and  said  it  was  exactly  yourself  in  Every  thing ; 
She  cryed  here  above  an  hour,  and  I  showed 
her  your  Picture  to  appease  her,  she  seemed  much 
charmed,  said  she  had  ever  loved  you,  and  should 
while  her  heart  was  warm.  I  enjoyed  all  this  so 
much  I  could  not  help  joining  with  her  in  Tears. 
She  is  a  worthy  soul. 

"  Monday,  22nd.  The  poor  Queen  of  Denmark  is 
dead  and  a  General  Mourning  ordered,  on  Wednesday 
my  time  for  these  Lodgings  is  out  and  we  shall  go 

16 


242  Ube  iprancts  Xetters  [1775 

to  Town  to  get  our  Mournings  and  prepare  for  the 
children's  coming  home. 

"  Wednesday,  2^tk.  Miss  Chitty  called  on  me 
before  they  went  to  Town,  her  Mother  but  poorly, 
her  nephew  Mr.  Andrews  has  done  me  a  favour  in 
procuring  your  favourite  song  for  me,  '  Let  not  Age 
&c.,'  which  is  not  Published,  he  has  promised  to  get 
it  from  Mr.  Giardani. 

"  Thursday,  25M.  After  Dinner  I  left  Hampstead, 
not  without  a  great  desire  to  return  there  again  but 
Lodgings  are  high  priced  and  tho'  I  have  seen  a 
pretty  little  House  in  the  Wells  Walk,  would  just 
suit  me  ;^20  a  year  I  would  not  venture  on  it  without 
consulting  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler  lest  they  should 
not  approve.  .   .  . 

"Friday,  26th.  I  have  just  received  that  Sweet 
Song,  and  played  it  over  and  over  again,  'tis  no 
wonder  you  was  charmed,  'tis  in  your  taste  and  most 
delightful.  I  can  sing  it  very  tolerably  and  even 
without  the  Harpsicord,  but  the  Instrument  is  an 
addition  to  be  sure,  the  words  affect  me,  '  Joys  that 
ne'er  return  again.'  I  hope  mine  will  and  pray  most 
heartily  for  it. 

"  Saturday,  2'jth.  Sally  and  I  dined  with  Mrs. 
Chandler,  She  does  not  approve  of  my  taking  the 
house  at  Hampstead,  she  thinks  it  an  unnecessary 
Expense,  and  he  is  of  the  same  opinion,  at  least  She 
says  so,  for  when  I  asked  him  he  did  not  make  any 
answer,  but  she  told  me  that  was  because  his  Opinion 
was  the  same  as  her's,  so  I  have  given  it  up,  and  if  I 
should  find  Sally  and  I  not  so  well  after  the  Holydays 
we  can  but  then  take  a  Lodging  for  a  month  or  so. 


1775]  tTbe  jfrancts  Xctters  a43 

"  Friday,  June  <^tk.  This  is  my  Father's  Birthday 
when  he  enters  into  his  eightieth  year.  He,  my  Mother 
and  Patty  all  came  to  Town  to  spend  the  Day  with  me,  I 
wish  you,  my  Brother,  many  happy  returns  of  the  Day. 
We  were  all  very  happy  and  cheerful.  I  played  to  my 
Father  that  favourite  song  of  yours  which  pleased  him 
very  much  '  Let  not  Age  thy  Bloom  ensnare '  &c. 

"  Saturday,  loik.  Mr.  Whitelock  wrote  to  me  to 
tell  me  that  a  Ship  from  China  brought  accounts  from 
an  East  Indiaman  at  St.  Helens,  you  were  all  safe 
arrived  at  Bengal.  I  live  in  constant  hopes  of  Letters. 
In  the  Evening  Mr.  Roberts  called  to  tell  me  the 
same  news  ...  he  says  the  Governor  and  you  must 
love  each  other  as  you  are  both  amiable,  learned  and 
worthy,  there  is  a  similitude  in  you  that  must  make 
you  fond  of  each  other ! 

''Monday,  June  iitk.  I  have  sent  and  been  to 
Mr.  Chandlers,  but  they  are  not  at  home.  I  seldom 
know  anything  of  them,  they  are  much  engaged  in 
more  pleasant  Places  than  an  hour  or  two  in  Duke 
Street  with  me  surrounded  with  children  and  Work, 
however  sometimes  She  does  vouchsafe  me  a  Con- 
versation on  living  within  Bounds  and  Wonders  how 
people  can  talk  of  not  being  able  to  do  this  or  that. 
She  thinks  every  one  should  cut  their  Coat  according 
to  their  Cloth,  all  this  you  know  must  be  pleasant 
for  me  to  hear,  but  I  must  bear  it  and  be  silent. 
To  do  him  Justice  I  believe  he  has  not  any  thing 
to  do  with  it,  but  she  often  gives  him  the  honour — 
However — Mum  ...  Mr.  Adair  advises  me  to  take 
Sally  to  Brighton  for  general  weakness.  I  am  sure 
you  won't  grudge  it. 


244  XTbe  Francis  Xettew  [1775 

"  Brighton. 

"  Wednesday,  2%th  June.  I  propose  leaving 
Sally  here  at  a  Boarding  School  which  bears  a 
good  character  and  I  have  been  to  speak  to  the 
Governess.  I  am  to  pay  £2^  a  year  for  her  as 
Parlour  Boarder,  £2.  2/-  Entrance  fee  and  one  Guinea 
for  Tea.  The  Governess  is  an  Elderly  Woman  and 
a  very  worthy  Person. — As  to  the  Branches  of  Edu- 
cation they  are  to  be  paid  for  separately,  but  I  shall 
never  grudge  it,  let  the  Expense  be  what  it  will. 

"  Thursday,  2gtk.  Can  I  express  my  Joy !  I 
received  your  Packet  from  Calcutta,  was  so  trans- 
ported I  was  almost  Blind — could  not  see  to  read. 
Thanks  be  to  God  you  and  my  dear  Mack  were  both 
well.  The  death  of  poor  Campbell  affected  me  very 
much  for  his  poor  Parents  sake,  a  Child  is  a  Child 
be  he  good  or  bad  and  while  there  is  Life  there  is 
Hope  of  amendment,  but  now  all  that  ceases — it  must 
have  been  very  melancholy  to  have  happened  in  the 
Ship,  but  the  sickness  of  Col.  Monson  and  Miss 
Clavering  with  their  danger  must  have  overcome  other 
trouble  for  the  time,  poor  Lady  Impey  too,  I  really 
feel  for  you  all  and  was  much  relieved  by  shedding 
Tears,  poor  Miss  Mellish,  she  suffered  and  was  not 
so  happy  to  recover  as  the  rest.  I  trust  you  and 
my  Brother  were  really  as  well  as  you  say.  I  am 
made  very  happy  by  the  affectionate  manner  in  which 
you  express  yourself  to  me  and  your  kind  addition 
to  my  Allowance,  my  income  was  very  confined  before, 
but  I  always  contented  myself  you  would  enlarge  it 
as  soon  as  was  convenient  to  you.  .  .  . 

•'  My   friend    Mrs.    Chandler   is   always   preaching 


1 775]  XCbe  jfrancis  Xctters  245 

up  economy  and  told  me  everybody  must  make  what 
they  had  do  and  never  complain.  It  is  very  easie 
to  be  an  Economist  in  the  midst  of  Plenty,  however 
I  have  thoughts  she  might  have  administered  some 
other  Comforts  as  well  as  advice,  but  those  were 
omitted.  She  seemed  to  think  a  Hackney  Coach 
was  not  proper  for  me  to  go  out  in,  but  I  could  not 
afford  another,  then  she  advised  my  going  out  the 
Seldomer,  but  I  am  ordered  to  ride  out  for  my  health — 
I  might  have  hoped  for  an  Airing  sometimes  with 
her,  but  she  was  otherwise  engaged  I  suppose.  I 
shall  endeavour  this  Winter  to  hire  a  Job  Coach  for 
a  few  months  out  of  your  Generosity  and  then  I  need 
not  be  ashamed  to  appear  as  your  Wife. 

"  Sunday,  July  2'^rd.  I  hear  there  are  several 
Gentlemen  returned  from  India  rather  in  disgust  at 
this  new  mode  of  things  which  is  introduced  by  you. 
Mr.  D'Oyly  seems  quite  delighted  with  what  you  have 
done  and  says  you  have  acted  like  yourself. 

"  Friday,  2^tk.  I  thank  you  for  the  Addition  you 
have  made  to  my  presents.  Ten  pieces  of  Muslin 
or  cloth  as  you  call  it  are  safe  arrived  in  Duke 
Street  with  two  pieces  of  handkerchiefs. 

"TuNBRiDGE  Wells. 

"  Thursday,  Aug.  \oth.  I  forgot  to  mention  having 
attempted  to  ride  double  on  Horseback  and  really 
succeeded  very  well,  rode  about  half  an  hour  without 
fear.  .  .  . 

"  Saturday,  iitk.  A  grand  Festival  here,  the  Duke 
of  Leeds  gives  a  Grand  Ball  and  Tea  drinking,  it 
being  the  Prince  of  Wales's  Birthday.  There  were 
4(X)  people  present,  plenty  of  Everything.     His  Grace 


246  Ube  francts  Xcttcrs  [177s 

met  the  Company  on  the  Walks  at  six  o'clock  and 
soon  after  went  into  the  Rooms  and  placed  Lady 
Harborough  at  the  Top  of  one  Table,  Lady  Effing- 
ham at  another,  Lady  Morton  at  another  and  so  on. 
Every  other  Lady  sat  down  as  she  liked,  we  had  a 
Band  of  Music  at  Tea  and  the  Ball  was  opened  at 
one  End  by  the  Countess  of  Harborough  and  the 
Earl  Fitzwilliams,  at  the  other  by  Lady  Bridget 
Douglas  and  Lord  Polwarth.  After  a  vast  many 
minuets  they  danced  Country  Dances  and  I  was  soon 
tired,  came  home  soon  after  Ten. 

''Monday,  \%th.  Was  made  very  happy  by  a 
paquet  from  you  my  dearest  Philip.  Indeed  I  was 
very  thankful  to  hear  you  had  purchased  the  pretty 
Villa,  or  Country  House  which  according  to  what 
Mr.  Adair  says  must  be  of  the  greatest  consequence 
to  your  health.  ...  I  thank  you  for  your  kind 
Addition  to  my  Salary,  I  think  myself  much  obliged 
to  you  in  permitting  me  to  have  a  Coach,  it  will  be 
a  great  comfort  to  me  and  of  use  to  my  health. 

"  Oh  !  that  I  could  transport  myself  to  your  Sweet 
retreat  and  spend  a  few  hours  with  you — how  happy 
should  I  be! 

"  Wednesday,  20th.  I  have  not  received  any  of 
my  Parcels  yet  but  Mr.  Troutbecks,  as  I  wrote  you. 
I  am  very  sorry  you  have  laid  out  so  much  money 
on  such  very  thin  Muslin  and  all  alike,  Ten  Pieces 
of  Book  Muslin — my  Brother  could  have  advised 
you  better.  I  make  no  doubt  it  has  cost  at  least  nine 
or  ten  pounds  a  piece  and  here  would  be  worth  much 
more,  but  striped  or  worked  muslin,  or  fine  thick 
Jaconet  would   be   more   useful   to  me,  there  is  also 


1775]  ^be  frauds  Xetters  247 

some  very  fine  woven  Muslin  in  little  leaves  or  spots 
that  is  beautiful,  I  should  be  glad  of  some  o^  that. 
I  shall  be  glad  to  hear  you  are  frequently  at  your 
Country  House  and  am  convinced  I  never  could  have 
lived  at  Bengal.  I  am  now  but  a  poor  Creature 
what  must  I  have  done  then  ? 

"  Wednesday,  Oct.  wth.  Mr.  Chandler  has  made 
a  Purchase,  the  House  and  Gardens,  Furniture  &c.,  of 
Lord  Pomfret  at  Sunbury  near  Hampton  Court  and 
given  ^12,000  for  it  and  125  Acres  of  Land.  They 
say  it  is  a  sweet  Spot  and  they  are  so  good  as  to  say 
they  will  be  glad  to  see  me  there  and  my  young  ones. 

"  London. 

"  Dec.  jtk.  I  have  just  dispatched  my  Packet  by 
the  Greenwich,  with  Letters  from  your  three  Daughters. 

"  Tuesday,  Dec.  i^tk.  Miss  Holden  came  to  stay 
some  Days  with  me.  We  enjoyed  that  Day  alone 
and  talked  of  our  dear,  dear  Friends  in   India. 

"  Wednesday,  2otk.  Had  our  Hair  dressed  and  went 
to  a  Rout  of  Mrs.  Pearce's  in  Milbank  Street, 
played  one  Pool  at  Quadrille  and  lost  6d.,  was  soon 
tired  and  came  home. 

"  Wednesday,  Dec.  2'jtk.  Mrs.  Chandler  called  and 
asked  me  to  dine  and  play  cards  on  the  Friday 
following,  I  begged  to  be  excused  play  as  their  usual 
Stake  is  too  high,  1/6  or  i/-  per  fish,  I  told  her  this 
did  not  suit  my  Pocket,  She  seemed  rather  to  take 
it  amiss.  I  asked  her  opinion  about  my  keeping  the 
Girls  at  home  and  having  a  Governess  as  I  had  heard 
of  one  that  I  believe  will  do,  Mr.  Ribouville  had  her 
recommended  by  a  friend  of  his  and  at  small  Wages 
;^i8  a  year.     Understands  French  perfectly,  English 


248  XTbe  iprancis  Xetters  [177s 

and  Needlework  &c.  She  told  me  I  was  best  Judge, 
so  I  said  no  more. 

"  Friday,  2^tk.  Mr.  Chandler  called,  approved  at 
once  of  this  Teacher,  so  I  went  to  Mr.  Ribouville 
about  her. 

"  Saturday i  December  y:>th.  The  Governess  came 
to  see  me,  a  Modest,  well  looking  young  Woman 
about  23,  not  a  fine  Lady,  but  seems  well  behaved, 
I  shall  send  after  her  Character.  She  undertakes  the 
five  Girls,  Mr.  Ribouville  thinks  she  can  do  more 
for  them  in  French  than  he  can,  they  will  always 
converse  in  it  and  this  Young  Person  can  teach  them 
English  grammatically." 


Mr.  Francis  during  the  whole  of  his  Indian  career 

wrote  voluminously  about  public  affairs  in  memoranda 

and  business  records,  as  well  as  letters  to  friends  and 

politicians  in   England.     On  the   subject  of  the  war 

with    the    American  Colonies  he  wrote  to  his  friend 

Christopher  D'Oyly  : — 

"  Calcutta, 
^'■Jan.  22nd,  1776. 

"  I  thank  you  heartily,  my  Dear  Friend,  for  your 
Letter  of  the  i  f^  of  April.  ...  I  fear  it  is  not  in  my 
power  to  serve  Colonel  Eraser's  Agents. .  . .  Purchasing 
Diamonds  and  remitting  thro'  the  Company's  Cash, 
are  exactly  the  Objects  of  Contention  to  all  Mankind 
here.  I  have  never  yet  been  able  to  buy  a  Diamond 
for  myself,  nor  indeed  have  I  leisure  to  attend  to 
such  Matters.  Your  Account  of  American  Politics 
gives  me  no  Sort  of  Comfort ;  except  in  the  Reflec- 
tion that   my   Situation  removes  me  from  any  Share 


1776]  Ube  jfrancis  Xetters  249 

in  Measures,  which  I   cannot   approve,  and   perhaps 
could  not  have  opposed. 

"  I  know  not  what  that  Object  is,  which,  either  in 
Morals  or  Policy,  can  justify  the  Shedding  of  English 
Blood  by  the  hands  of  Englishmen.  Is  it  Revenue  ? — 
the  present  Armament  will  cost  the  Nation  more 
than  all  the  direct  Taxes,  that  can  be  raised  from 
America,  will  amount  to  in  a  Century.  Is  it  Com- 
merce ?  You  have  a  Navy  to  guard  the  Seas :  The 
Americans  have  none,  nor  ever  can  have  any.  If 
neither  of  these  Objects  be  in  question,  it  must  only 
be  the  Form  of  Dominion,  not  the  Substance  ; — and 
thousands  may  bleed — even  the  Empire  may  be 
shaken  for  a  Name.  There  was  a  Time,  when  I  could 
reason  as  logically  and  as  passionately  as  any  Body 
against  the  Americans  ;  but  since  I  have  been  obliged 
to  study  the  Book  of  Wisdom,  I  have  dismissed 
Logic  out  of  my  Library.  The  Fate  of  Nations 
must  not  be  tried  by  Forms.  On  these  I  doubt  the 
Americans  themselves  have  relied  too  much  and  not 
taken  Measures  conformable  to  their  profest  Principles. 
Such  Declarations  as  they  have  made  are  absurd,  if 
they  have  no  Plan  previously  concerted  by  a  few  able 
Heads,  with  Powers  to  carry  them  into  Execution. 
The  Dutch  had  Agents  in  every  Court  in  Europe. 
The  first  Blood  that  is  shed,  if  the  Struggle  should 
come  to  that  miserable  Extremity,  ought  to  be  a 
Libation  to  Peace.  The  Horror  of  such  a  Scene  may 
perhaps  bring  all  Parties  to  their  Senses.  To  make 
any  other  Use  of  a  Victory  is  Tyranny  and  Madness. 

"...  There  are  many  Points  relative  both  to  public 
and   private   Affairs,   on   which   I   should    be  glad    to 


25©  '^bc  jprancis  Xetters  [1776 

enlarge  ;  but  really  I  am  so  hurried  and  fatigued  that 
I  have  neither  time  nor  spirit  to  write  long  letters. 

"  Mr.  Strachey  will  communicate  to  you  some 
Papers  of  Importance.  Give  them  a  serious  perusal. 
The  Plan  I  know  is  right  on  Principle  ...  it  is  plain 
and  simple.  There  must  be  no  tricks  or  refinements 
in  forming  or  restoring  the  constitution  of  an  Empire.' 

"  Your  account  of  my  noble  son  makes  the  im- 
pression it  ought  to  do  on  my  mind.  He  will  have 
advantages  that  I  wanted  ;  I  mean  some  original  rank 
and  introduction  into  Life.  Yet  unless  they  are  made 
a  right  Use  of,  there  is  a  Danger  in  possessing  them. 
In  general  they  promote  Vanity  and  slacken  Industry. 
A  man  had  better  walk  bare  foot  than  limp  in  Dog 
skin.  Pray  let  my  Wife  read  this  Letter  and  also 
that  to  Strachey.  I  am  afraid  mine  to  herself  will 
not  be  so  copious,  as  she  has  a  Right  to  expect.  J^e 
fais  rimpossible,  and  those  who  love  me  best,  must 
make  the  largest  Allowances  for  me. 

"  I  would  write  to  Lord  Barrington  and  Mr.  Ellis, 
but  positively  I  am  too  weary  to  dress  for  great 
Company.  My  Family  and  friends  will  be  glad  to 
see  me  without  Ceremony. 

"  Adieu. 

"  Yours  Yours, 

"  P.  Francis. 

^  The  plan  here  referred  to  was  a  "  Scheme  for  the  Government 
of  India,"  very  much  like  the  plan  conceived  and  carried  into 
effect  nearly  a  hundred  years  afterwards,  when  the  dominion  of  the 
Company  gave  place  to  Imperial  legislation.  Francis  had  written  a 
letter  to  Lord  North  only  a  few  months  after  he  began  his  work  in 
Bengal,  in  which  he  gives  a  sketch  of  this  "  Plan  of  Settlement," 
drawn  out,  as  here  stated,  more  elaborately  afterwards. 


1776]  Ube  ifrancts  Xetters  251 

"  I  wish  it  were  possible  to  have  this  Plan  com- 
municated to  Mr.  Thomas  Pitt.^  I  have  been  bred 
up  with  a  Prejudice  that  he  is  as  great  a  Man  as 
any  Man  can  be,  who  only  speculates. 

"  I  could  give  you  fine  Histories  of  the  State  of 
Parties  here,  and  the  Characters  of  the  Chief  Partizans. 
Mais  le  jeu  ne  vaut  pas  la  Chandelle.  I  am  weary 
on't.  ...  I  wish  you  would  inquire  and  tell  me  in  what 
dirty  Corner  of  Westminster  Hall  these  cursed  Judges 
were  picked  up.  I  have  no  personal  Quarrel  with 
any  of  them,  but  assuredly  they  are  driving  hard  to 
the  Destruction  of  this  Country.  It  was  a  pleasant 
Idea  to  give  a  Nation  a  Court  of  Judicature,  before 
you  gave  them  a  Constitution.  I  see  a  Number  of 
Streams  but  no  Fountain.  I  see  Laws  without  a 
Sovereign.  Does  any  Man  in  England  know,  or  think 
it  worth  his  while  to  inquire,  who  is  King  of  Bengal  ? 
I  believe  not.  Yet,  tho'  a  Matter  of  Indifference 
among  you  great  Politicians  at  a  Distance,  it  is  really 
a  Question  of  some  little  moment  to  us,  who  pretend 
to  be  a  Government,  and  are  now  and  then  obliged 
to  act  as  if  we  were  so. 

"  I  sent  Mrs.  D'Oyly  a  Pipe  of  Madeira  by  Captain 
Bromfield.  My  Blessing  goes  along  with  it.  To 
Mr.  Chandler,  I  send  by  this  Ship  Bills  to  the  Amount 
of  Seven  Thousand  five  hundred  and  sixty  Pounds  ; — 
another  Year  makes  me  independant  ;  a  third  affluent, 
at  least  according  to  my  Habits  of  Life  and  Value 
of  Money." 

^  First  Lord  Camelford,  nephew  of  Chatham.      The   former   is 
mentioned  in  P.  Francis's  letters  from  Portugal. 


asa  XTbc  jfrancis  Xetters  [1776 

Philip  Francis  to  H.  Strachey.^ 

"  Calcutta, 
"■January  22nd,  1776. 

"If  you  have  a  mind  to  grow  very  old  in  a 
year  or  two,  get  a  Seat  in  this  Council.  I  am  actually 
so  grave  and  so  grey,  that  I  begin  to  have  some 
doubts  about  my  own  Identity.  It  is  not  for  my 
Interest  that  the  Ladies  of  Berkeley  Square  should 
remember  me.  If  however  they  have  any  benevolent 
thoughts  to  dispose  of,  they  can  nowhere  find  a  better 
Subject  for  Compassion  than  myself 

"  Nineteen  Councillors  for  one  Presidency  !  and  all 
of  one  mind!  How  hard  it  is  that  we  five  should  be 
too  many  to  agree !  Pray  tell  Captain  Swinton  that 
I  received  his  Letter,  and  shall  be  happy  to  serve 
him,  if  the  Case  he  speaks  of  should  occur.  But 
really  it  is  a  Jest  for  me  to  undertake  Agencies  for 
anybody.  A  Disposition  to  act  goes  but  a  little  way 
against  a  physical  Impossibility. 

"  Farewell, 

"P.  Francis." 

D.  Godfrey  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London, 
"Feb.  17  th,  1776. 

'•  My  dear  Francis, 

"  I  feel  for  you,  I  know  your  situation  is 
hardly  bearable,  but  I  envy  you  too,  nothing  glorious 
was  ever  atcheived  without  labour  and  anxiety,  but, 

*  Henry  Strachey,  afterwards  Sir  H.  Strachey,  a  friend  of  Francis, 
had  been  Secretary  to  Lord  Clive. 


1776]  XTbe  ifrancts  Xetters  253 

if  it  be  possible,  proceed  and  convince  the  World 
that  great  Parts  and  perfect  Integrity  may  still  unite 
in  the  same  Person  together  with  indefatigable  In- 
dustry. I  know  not  yet  the  result  of  your  last 
despatches,  all  I  know  is  that  Hastings  sent  Letters 
after  the  Anson  by  a  Vessel  which  overtook  her  and 
of  course  he  has  the  advantage  of  being  the  last 
Pleader,  but  I  flatter  myself  they  will  have  no  effect. 

"  Time  is  all  taken  up  with  the  Americans,  and  the 
Business  of  the  East  is  comparatively  too  trivial  to 
be  attended  to.  Since  I  wrote  last  they  have  pro- 
ceeded with  the  same  success  ;  of  the  Transports  we 
sent  out  to  relieve  Boston  very  few  arrived  there,  a 
few  were  lost,  some  lost  their  passage,  and  many  have 
been  taken  by  the  Americans,  and  those  the  most 
valuable.  Lord  Dunmore  who  was  the  Hero  of  the 
Administration  and  who  in  Consequence  was  the 
other  day  elected  one  of  the  16  Peers  of  Scotland  for 
having  erected  the  King's  Standard  in  Virginia  and 
collected  a  glorious  Army,  was  the  other  day  shame- 
fully beat,  without  the  loss  of  a  single  American — he 
lost  1 1 2  Men  and  he  himself  driven  on  board  a  Man 
of  war.  The  Americans  have  likewise  taken  all 
Canada,  Quebeck  excepted,  and  that  is  besieged  as 
well  as  Boston.  A  Party  of  the  Guards  are  going  to 
America,  12,000  Germans,  the  Army  there  will  consist 
next  summer  of  40,000  Men.  The  Americans  know 
it  and  they  are  not  dismayed.  They  have  acted 
hitherto  by  the  Consent  of  all  Parties  with  the 
greatest  wisdom  and  the  greatest  Courage.  They 
have  2  English  Regiments  taken  at  one  Time 
Prisoners,     and    as     many    other     English     soldiers 


254  Ube  3f rands  letters  [1776 

prisoners  as  amount  to  1,700.  I  feel  great  pleasure 
in  mentioning  to  you  these  facts,  for  you  were  certainly 
one  of  those  who  depreciated  them  if  you  did  not 
brand  them  with  the  name  of  Cowards.  We  have 
acted  in  many  Instances  with  savage  Barbarity,  they 
constantly  with  humanity  and  moderation  and  lest 
you  should  think  I  have  no  foundation  for  what  I 
say  I  will  just  mention  a  few  Facts.  We  have  burnt 
several  of  their  harmless  Towns  accessible  to  ships  of 
war,  that  is,  where  it  could  be  done  with  impunity, 
a  practice  held  in  execration  by  all  civilised  nations 
and  contrary  to  all  the  Laws  of  War,  even  against 
Rebels,  we  have  declared  their  slaves  free,  at  least 
L*^  Dunmore  has  done  it,  and  thereby  encouraged 
them  to  Murder  their  Masters  and  commit  every 
kind  of  violence,  I  expect  shortly  to  hear  that  we 
have  poisoned  their  Wells  and  springs.  The  American 
congress  with  a  dignity  becoming  so  respectable  a 
body  after  enumerating  all  the  savage  excesses 
committed  against  them,  exhort  the  Americans  to 
remember  that  humanity  is  the  constant  attendant  of 
true  courage,  that  retaliation  ought  never  to  be  in- 
dulged by  private  persons,  but  if  the  common  safety 
of  them  all  should  require  it,  they  will  undertake  the 
disagreeable  office  ;  and  their  exhortation  has  been 
religiously  obeyed.  The  Duke  of  Marlborough  has 
joined  the  Minority. 

"  Since  the  above  was  written  I  have  seen  D'Oyly 
and  Chandler.  I  mentioned  to  the  former  your 
request  in  case  certain  events  should  take  place 
with  respect  to  you,  he  told  me  you  had  mentioned 
the   same   thing   to   him,  but    nothing  has  yet   been 


1776]  Ubc  jfranctB  Xettcrs  255 

done.  The  East  Indies  and  everything  relating 
to  them  are  totally  forgotten,  therefore  be  patient, 
trust  more  to  yourself  than  to  any  promises  you  may 
have  received  from  28,  and  if  I  am  a  Prophet,  vous 
vous  en  trouverez  bien,  but  above  all,  (it  is  D'Oyly's 
request  as  well  as  my  own)  don't  be  impatient,  happy 
as  I  should  be  to.  see  you,  I  cannot  help  wishing  that 
you  should  not,  in  a  fit  of  impetuosity  come  to  England. 
It  is  now  the  6th  of  April  and  I  have  received  yours 
by  the  Northumberland.  My  good  friend,  I  see  you 
are  dispirited,  but  bear  up  against  the  effects  of  climate 
I  am  convinced  your  lowness  of  Spirits  arises  from  no 
other  cause,  but  take  care  of  your  health.  You  say 
we  shall  meet  never  to  be  separated  again.  Why  did 
you  not  end  there  ?  Why  intimate  that  there  was  a 
possibility  of  your  going  to  America.  Indeed  that 
would  be  a  dreadful  event  but  it  never  will  be,  so  give 
up  the  Idea.  If  America  is  conquered  by  this  Country 
which  Heaven  avert,  it  will  not  be  worth  living  in,  if 
it  be  not,  this  Country  will  still  have  charms  to  induce 
you  to  live  in  it,  and  possibly  misfortune  will  have 
taught  Government  that  Integrity  and  Abilities  are 
qualities  requisite  in  the  Persons  employed  by  the 
State.  Therefore  don't  despair,  I  foresee  we  shall  yet 
be  happy.  Do  but  come  home,  I  don't  want  to  see 
you  either  wiser  or  better,  if  you  should  happen  to  be 
either  or  both,  there  will  be  too  much  disparity  between 
us.  Let  me  advise  you  and  that  most  earnestly  to 
banish  from  your  mind  all  anxiety  particularly  for  the 
public  whose  Interests  you  espouse  so  warmly,  act 
indeed,  but  the  moment  you  have  done  acting  cease 
to  think  of  anything  but  Pleasure,  I  am  sure  it  is  to 


»s6  XTbe  iprancis  Xetters  [1776 

be  done,  and  I  am  sure  you  will  find  good  Effects 
from  the  practice,  remember  that  your  whole  Time 
does  not  belong  in  justice  or  in  Equity  to  the  Public, 
yourself,  your  Friends  are  entitled  to  a  share,  and  that 
to  promote  health  and  lengthen  life  nothing  contributes 
so  much  as  chearful  Thoughts." 

In  this  letter  Mr.  Godfrey  refers  to  Mr.  Francis's 
former  opinions  on  the  right  of  the  Mother  Country 
to  tax  her  Colonies.  On  this  subject  he  had  written 
strongly  in  1766  to  Mr.  Allen,  his  old  friend  the 
English  Chaplain  at  Lisbon. 


The  last  letter  Mackrabie  wrote  to  his  sister  was 
in  March,  1775.  At  the  beginning  of  the  year  1776 
he  took  up  a  Journal,  in  which  he  had  written  nothing 
since  December  of  the  previous  year. 

Alexander  Mackrabie's  Journal. 

"  Calcutta, 
"Jan.  1776. 

"  Dear  Friends, 

"  I  have  sorely  neglected  my  journal  of  late 
but  I  will  try  to  recover  and  then  seriously  continue 
the  thread  of  it. 

''Nov.  2>^d,  1775.  A  party  at  the  Claverings 
with  Sir  E.  Impey  and  lady ;  the  whole  house  of 
Harwell — we  only  wanted  the  Governor  to  make  it 
complete.  The  evening  was  stupid  enough  and  the 
supper  detestable.  Great  joints  of  roasted  Goat 
with  endless  dishes  of  cold  fish.  With  respect  to 
conversation — we   had    3    or   4    songs    screeched    to 


^1 


i  '  V: 


SIR  ELIJAH  IIMPEY, 

CHIEF   JUSTICE    OF    THE    SUPREME    COURT    OF    BENGAL. 


To  face  page  256.] 


1775]  TLbc  3ftancfs  Xcttets  257 

unknown  tunes  ;  the  ladies  regaled  with  cherry  brandy, 
and  we  pelted  one  another  with  bread  pills  a  la 
mode  de  Bengal. 

"  Mr.  Francis,  by  being  absent  from  Town 
escaped  the  fatigue  of  the  day  [Christmas].  'Tis  the 
most  absurd  of  all  possible  ceremonies  :  every  Member 
of  the  Council,  the  Judges,  the  Board  of  Trade,  Field 
Officers,  Clergy,  and  Heads  of  Offices  are  pestered 
with  the  Repetitions  'A  Merry  Christmas'  &c.,  &c., 
&c.  It  was  a  merry  evening  to  me,  for  I  won  at 
cards,  which  I  had  not  done  of  an  age  before. 

"  December  2']th.  Messrs.  Hay  and  Whitelock 
arrived  here  from  Bombay,  where  they  landed,  about 
3  months  before  from  the  Talbot.  Mr.  Hay  is  an 
inmate  with  us — and  Mr.  Francis  had  taken  measures 
for  the  accommodation  of  Mr.  Whitelock  ;  but  the 
General  lays  claim  to  him.  He  has  his  entree  how- 
ever established  in  this  house  at  all  times.  I  attended 
Mr.  Hay  next  morning  to  the  Governor,  with  whom 
we  dined.  Mr.  Francis  presented  him  to  General 
Clavering,  Col.  Monson,  Mr.  Barwell,  the  Chief 
Justice  and  Lady  Impey.  'Tis  a  vast  advantage  to 
a  young  man,  being  put  upon  so  respectable  a  footing 
immediately !  Hay  proves  an  agreeable  addition  to 
our  Family.  He  is  sensible,  chearful  and  sweet- 
tempered  and  works  special  hard. 

''  Jany.  ']th,  1776.  Mr.  Francis  has  a  large  turtle 
presented  him.  We  have  just  cut  his  head  off,  and 
shall  eat  him  on  Wednesday.  The  weather  is  cool, 
he  will  keep  till  then. 

"  Saturday,  \zth.     The  turtle  proved  but  indifferent. 

17 


258  Ubc  jf rands  Xcttew  [1776 

We  had  a  good  dinner  besides  and  about  20  guests. 
Mr.  Harwell  invited  us  with  50  other  people  to  a 
turtle  yesterday,  it  was  good,  though  too  small  for 
the  Company,  or  rather  the  Company  too  large  for 
it.     Card  Club  at  our  House  tonight. 

"  February  2,rd,  &^th  &  ^th.  I  might  take  a  fresh 
sheet  and  a  whole  one  to  describe  the  comforts  and 
various  events  of  our  Barrasut  Expedition.  It  is 
quite  a  new  scene,  a  delightful  open  country,  where 
it  is  absolutely  possible  to  forget  the  heats  and  cares 
of  Calcutta.  Oliver  did  everything  that  could  be 
done  in  Bengal.  He  even  made  a  good  road  for 
our  carriages,  which  has  never  been  attempted,  at 
least  in  that  part  of  the  country  before.  Livius  and 
I  set  out  before  day  in  our  friend  Collings'  phaeton, 
and  drove  to  Dum  Dum,  which  in  former  times  was 
a  Retreat  of  Lord  Clive's.  There  is  a  degree  of 
singularity  about  the  Place,  which  gives  it  a  merit, 
at  least  with  an  odd  man.  It  is  monastic,  the  country 
about  it  is  dreary ;  but  the  forest  trees  and  lofty 
terraces  upon  the  spot  give  it  a  noble  air.  It  at 
least  has  two  desirable  qualities  for  this  country, 
being  both  retired  and  cool.  Here  we  got  into 
another  chaise.  .  .  .  We  arrived  at  Barrasut  before 
breakfast.  Our  friends  soon  joined  us,  after  which 
we  breakfasted  and  walked.  The  greatest  curiosity 
we  saw  in  this  excursion  was  a  kind  of  bats  as  large 
as  crows,  which  fly  about  in  the  day  time,  making 
a  great  noise.  Their  heads  and  bodies  were  like 
those  of  Foxes,  the  rest  like  a  common  Bat,  but 
upon  a  very  large  scale. 

"  When  it  became  too  hot  for  any  farther  Perambu- 


1776]  Ubc  jfrancis  Xetters  259 

lation,  we   returned   to    Business,    that   is,  to   Cards. 
Messrs.    Oliver,    Collings    and    several    others    now 
joined  us  who  had  been  out  with  the  Hounds.     You 
scarcely  expect  an  Account  of  the  Rubbers  ;  at  Two 
we  sat  down  to  Dinner — then  to  sleep,  next  to  Tea — 
after    that    to   Business — to   supper — to    Bed.      The 
next  morning,  such   of  us  who  were   not   too   much 
fatigued  to  leave  our  mattrasses,  rode  or  walked   to 
an    Octagon  Summer  House,   built  by  the  late  Mr. 
Lambert  who  was  the  Husband  of  Lady  Hope.     This 
is   a   pretty    Toy,    erected   upon    an    eminence,    and 
distant    about    a    mile    from    Barrasut,    with   walks, 
flowering  shrubs  and  a  garden.     The   ashes   of  that 
gentleman,  (for  his  Body  was  burnt  by  his  particular 
direction)  are  deposited  under  the    Building.     I   was 
not   without    apprehension,    during    this    outride,    of 
coming    to    an    untimely    end.    Tigers    being    very 
plenty  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  jackalls    so   social, 
that   they   venture    into   your   very   chamber.      This 
day  passed  in  much  the  same  manner  as  the  former, 
and  at  the  close  of  it  and  of  our  accounts,  we  found 
that  the  House  of  Francis  and  Company  were  winners 
several     hundred    pounds.       Everything,     my    good 
friends,   in   this   country,   is   upon  an  enlarged  scale, 
and    the  superior    skill  and  attention  of  Mr.  F.  will 
make  him  successful  both  in  business  and  sport. 

"  Monday  morning.  We  all  scampered  to  town  as 
we  could.  An  Indian  march  is  curious  enough  to  see, 
for,  go  where  you  will,  every  man  carries  his  Bed,  and 
Furniture,  Provisions,  Liquors,  Kitchen  Utensils, 
everything  is  sent  upon  the  heads  of  Coolies.  We 
were  no  trifling  party,  at  least  Twenty,  besides  servants. 


a6o  Zbc  fvancis  Xetters  [1776 

To  accommodate  such  a  number  tents  were  pitched, 
and  our  encampment  made  a  gallant  appearance, 
heightened  by  that  of  two  elephants  chained  at  the 
Line  for  Conveyance  of  Baggage. 

"  The  only  unfortunate  event  which  befel  me  was 
an  irreparable  injury  done  to  my  cat,  my  Persian,  the 
dearest  of  his  kind.  He  was  worried  by  a  dog,  and 
notwithstanding  the  care  and  attention  Mr.  Hay  has 
been  so  obliging  as  to  give  him,  and  even  the  advice 
of  a  Physician,  Pussy's  case,  I  fear,  is  desperate. 

*'  Tuesday,  6th.  I  find  it  is  possible  to  have 
enough  of  cards.  I  sicken  at  the  sight  of  them 
and  will  neither  play  nor  bet  for  a  week,  though  I 
am  a  winner. 

"  8/^  &  ()th.  I  have  got  a  dismal  cold.  Tent 
sleeping  will  not  do  for  me.  Mr.  Francis  is  perfectly 
well.  Mr.  Collings  has  his  Indigestions  and  spleen; 
Mr.  Hay  is  all  Health  and  good  Humour — and  my 
Cat  is  dead.  I  wish  three  Inches  of  a  Case  Knife  in 
the  cursed  dog's  throat,  that  was  the  cause  of  his 
death. — From  this  hour,  I  wage  eternal  War  with  the 
Canine  Race. 

''Feb.  13/^,  Night.  We  drove  out  again  to  the 
Gardens.  I  have  been  stalking  all  round  and 
shewing  the  Boundaries  to  a  Black  Surveyor.  How 
the  plague  these  people  measure  land  I  cannot  con- 
ceive. They  neither  use  the  compass  nor  take  sights 
as  our  people  do,  and  yet  they  get  the  contents  of  a 
Piece  of  ground  with  tolerable  accuracy.  It  is  by 
means  of  Squares,   I  believe. 

•'  Friday  Night.  I  am  just  returned  from  General 
Clavering's.     It  was  the  concert  and  card  party,  but  I 


1776]  Ubc  ifrancts  Xetters  261 

neither  enjoyed  the  one  nor  sat  down  to  the  other. 
Poor  Lady  Anne  who  used  to  be  the  life  and  grace  of 
these  Meetings  is  dangerously  ill — in  fact  despaired 
of.  Mr.  M.  is  gone  to  the  country  and  I  came  away 
before  supper. 

"  Sunday,  February  i2>th.  Lady  Anne  Monson  is 
no  more.  After  laying  speechless  during  the  whole 
day,  she  departed  last  night  about  ten.  The  Loss  of 
such  a  Woman  is  generally  felt  by  the  whole  Settle- 
ment ;  but  we,  who  had  the  Honour  and  the  Pleasure 
of  a  more  immediate  acquaintance  are  deprived  of  a 
comfort  which  we  shall  long  regret.  Poor  Colonel 
Monson  is  inexpressibly  distressed  !  Mr.  Francis  paid 
him  a  visit  of  a  few  minutes,  which  were  mutually 
passed  in  Tears.  We  pay  the  last  voluntary  tribute 
of  Respect  to  her  Remains  this  Evening. 

"  Night.  Everybody  in  Town  was  at  the  Funeral. 
Mr.  Wilton  Chief  Mourner,  at  the  Colonel's  Request. 
The  Pall  was  borne  by  the  Governor,  the  Chief 
Justice,  Mr.  Justice  Chambers,  Mr.  Francis,  Mr.  Farrer 
the  Councillor,  a  particular  friend  of  the  family,  at 
whose  house  Colonel  Monson  now  is,  and  a  Mr. 
Thompson  who  is  of  the  Colonel's  family.  Six  ladies 
bore  it  from  the  Gate  of  the  Burying  Ground  to  the 
grave.  No  Person  was  ever  more  sincerely  or  more 
universally  regretted.  I  have  nothing  to  say  of  our- 
selves the  whole  of  that  day.  We  were  at  the  Gardens 
with  Mr.  Grant  and  Mr.  Ducarel — till  evening. 

**  Monday,  February  19M,  Evening.  We  dined 
with  Judge  Chambers.  The  Lady  Visitors  were  Mrs. 
Williamson,  Mrs.  Marriott,  and  Miss  Touchet,  and 
about   20  men  besides  us.      The   Judge   gave  us    a 


262  XTbe  jfcancis  Xetters  [1776 

Turtle,  and  intended  a  magnificent  dinner  but  his 
cook  got  drunk  and  set  fire  to  the  building  in  which 
it  was  dressing  and  by  that  means  near  twenty 
Dishes  were  lost.  He  has  excellent  Wine,  a 
spacious  House,  a  beautiful  Wifis  and  a  lovely 
child,    Happy   man  ! 

"  2ii'/,  Wednesday.  We  have  at  last  engaged  a 
Capital  House — the  best  in  Town — but  such  a  Rent. 
;^ioo  p.  month,  enormous!  Neighbour  Collings  and 
I   must  contribute  something  towards  it.  .  .  . 

"  Collings  is  at  this  instant  scolding  a  Sircar  who 
means  nothing  worse  than  to  cheat  him  of  a  hundred 
and  fifty  pound  by  mere  confusion  of  figures.  '  O  ho ! 
what !  you  have  found  it  out,  you  admit  it  at  last, 
do  you,  Mr.  Banyan  ? '  '  Yes,  yes,  very  right  what 
Master  say.  My  way,  bad  way.  Master  Account 
right.'  They  are  the  most  indefatigable,  most  in- 
corrigible thieves. 

''March  lotk,  1776.  At  the  Garden.  Macleod 
tells  me  that  they  have  killed  in  the  Garden  a  Cobra 
Capella  snake  of  five  foot  long — for  feet  I  suppose 
we  may  read  inches.  Good-night,  dear  friends.  All 
is  quiet  and  hush — so  I'll  go  to  bed. 

"  17M.  I  can  say  nothing  of  Mr.  Francis  to  give 
you  greater  satisfaction,  than  that  he  is  in  high  Health 
and  Spirits.  He  has  received  from  Mr.  Bristow  (you 
know  he  is  resident  for  the  Company  at  the  Court 
of  the  Nabob  of  Oude)  a  very  fine  Horse, — large, 
strong,  stately,  a  beautiful  Bay,  and  as  gentle  as  a 
Lamb.  But  none  of  you,  my  dear  friends,  can  feel 
as  we  do  the  joy  of  possessing  such  an  animal,  or 
if  you  did  according  to  the  standard  of  Pleasure  in 


1776]  Ube  jfrancis  Xettera  263 

Europe,  'tis  nothing  in  comparison  of  this  country, 
where  good  and  quiet  horses  are  so  much  more 
necessary,  and  so  much  more  difficult  to  procure. 

''Friday,  22nd.  I  had  almost  forgot.  We  had 
a  play  last  night.  '  The  Busy  Body ' — (middling)  '  the 
Recruiting  Sergeant,'  a  musical  thing  (had  it  been 
three  fourths  shorter  I  should  not  have  complained) — 
with  the  *  Mayor  of  Garrett '  (well  plaid  and  much 
applauded). 

"  Saturday,  2%rd.  We  supped  last  night  at  Mr. 
Aldersey's.  He  is  President  of  the  Board  of  Trade. 
There  were  the  Governor  and  Council,  Judges,  Board 
of  Trade  and  30  more  &c.,  &c.,  tolerable  enough  for 
a  large  party.  Mrs.  Hyde  sang.  The  whole  house 
of  Aldersey  are  musical  and  made  up  a  little  con- 
cert. ...  I  give  you  joy.  We  are  to  have  Peace 
with  the  Marattas.  They  give  up  Salsette  and  other 
advantages  to  the  Company.  We  had  before  every 
Prospect  of  a  general  War  with  them.  What  woeful 
accounts  of  the  State  of  America  !  'Tis  a  shocking 
contest !     English  against  English. 

''Monday,  March  2^th.  The  House!  There  is 
a  drawing-room  on  the  upper  storey  above  fifty 
feet  long — a  dining  room  below  as  large,  besides  two 
spacious  Halls,  and  a  suite  of  three  rooms  upon  each 
floor  to  the  East  and  West.  That  is  fourteen  rooms 
in  all,  with  a  principal  staircase  and  2  back  stairs. 
The  apartments  are  proportionately  high,  25  feet  I 
believe.  .  .  .  'Tis  by  far  the  largest,  loftiest  and  most 
superb  house  in  the  Place.  Livius  is  here  with  me 
and  has  got  the  blue  Devils.  Collings  is  also 
somewhat  nervous,  otherwise  we   are   all    in    perfect 


264  Ube  ifrancts  Xetters  [1776 

health.     Farewell.     Farewell.     God    Almighty   bless 
and  preserve  you  all,  prays  yours,  "A.   M." 

Philip  Francis  to  John  Bourke.* 

"  Calcutta, 
"March  20,  1776. 

"  Here  I  live.  Master  of  the  finest  House  in  Bengal, 
with  a  hundred  Servants,  a  country  house  and  spacious 
gardens,  horses  and  carriages  .  .  .  yet  so  perverse  is 
my  nature  that  the  devil  take  me  if  I  would  not  ex- 
change the  best  Dinner  and  the  best  Company  I  ever 
saw  in  Bengal  for  a  Beefsteak  and  Claret  at  the  Horn 
and  let  me  choose  my  company. — Be  so  good  as  live 
till  I  return  and  tell  Mr.  Burke  that  wherever  Fortune 
may  think  fit  to  place  me,  I  shall  think  it  an  honour 
and  a  happiness  to  be  permitted  to  cultivate  his  Friend- 
ship. I  will  not  return  without  an  Independence. 
You  know  the  spirit  that  is  in  me.  Oh  !  Bourke, 
I  wish  you  had  a  Horse  which  has  been  lately  sent 
me  from  Agra,  positively  the  noblest  creature  of  his 
kind.  He  is  supposed  to  be  cheap  at  2,000  rupees, 
and  now  I  shall  prance  like  a  General  Officer  and 
ride  over  the  Vulgar.  Pirisse  la  canaille  is  the  motto 
of  the  English  Government  in  India. 

"Yours,   P.   F." 
On    the    American    War    D.    Godfrey   writes    to 
Philip  Francis  : — 
"  Dear  Francis,  «j/ay  21^/,  1776. 

"...  The  American  business  takes  up  the 
attention  of  everybody,  .  .  .  The  last  news  from  that 

^  John  Bourke  was  a  friend  of  Edmund  Burke  as  well  as  of 
Philip  Francis. 


1776]  TLbc  jfrancts  Xetters  265 

Country  is  that  the  cowardly  Provincials  have  driven 
the  Kings  Army  out  of  Boston  in  the  most  Tem- 
pestuous Time  of  the  Year,  with  about  ten  Days 
provision  on  board,  they  left  behind  the  greatest  part 
of  the  Artillery  and  we  have  no  news  of  them.  The 
Americans  have  behaved  in  the  same  cowardly  manner 
at  Sea,  they  take  our  Transports,  they  attack  our 
Ships  of  war,  it  is  said  they  have  taken  one,  they 
trade  with  all  Europe,  and  they  have  even  had  the 
impertinence  to  send  a  Fleet  of  eight  Ships  mounting 
from  36  to  26  Guns  to  intercept  our  homeward  bound 
E.  I.  Ships.  I  hope  Reed  will  not  meet  with  them, 
for  cowardly  as  they  are,  he  I  am  afraid  will  not 
be  outdone.  The  Ministry  publish  here  with  an 
air  of  Triumph  that  General  Howe  (he  commanded 
at  Boston)  has  made  a  most  masterly  manoeuvre,  I 
know  well  that  he  had  numbers  of  his  people  killed, 
the  Town  was  battered  14  Days,  and  it  was  in 
consequence  of  a  Treaty  made  with  the  Provincials 
that  they  did  not  molest  him  in  his  embarkation, 
the  condition  on  his  part  was  that  the  Town  should 
not  be  burned,  he  now  has  no  Place  to  go  to  but 
Halifax,  and  there  they  have  nothing  to  eat.  I  forgot 
to  mention  to  you  that  the  Provincials  were  repulsed 
in  attempting  to  take  Quebeck  by  Storm  with  the  loss 
of  300  men.  This  happened  in  consequence  of  General 
Montgomery  who  commanded  the  attacks  being  killed 
in  the  first  onset,  the  Town  however  is  still  besieged, 
and  will  probably  be  taken.  Lord  North  pronounced 
the  eulogium  of  General  Montgomery  in  the  House 
of  Commons  for  in  answer  to  some  one  in  the  minority, 
he  said  speaking  of  him,  that  tho'  he  could  not  but 


266  Zbc  jfrancls  Xettets  [1776 

admit  that  he  was  able,  brave,  generous,  humane, 
yet  he  was  only  an  able,  brave,  generous,  humane 
Rebel,  and  these  are  the  men,  a  nation  of  whom,  we 
wisely  are  contending  with.  Take  care  that  you  don't 
visit  America  before  you  wish  it,  it  is  indeed  possible 
that  they  may  take  some  of  our  ships,  I  think  it  highly 
probable.  Twelve  thousand  Germans  sailed  for 
America  last  week,  four  or  five  other  thousands  are 
yet  to  go  as  soon  as  Ships  can  be  provided  for  them, 
in  all  probability  they  will  reach  that  country  time 
enough  to  go  into  winter  Quarters,  in  my  opinion  all 
who  do  not  desert  or  die  must  be  starved,  for  they 
certainly  will  get  nothing  there  to  eat.  The  Parlia- 
ment has  voted  away  the  People's  money  gloriously, 
three  millions  have  been  wanted  and  additional  taxes 
are  the  consequence.  Pray  when  you  are  a  great 
man  in  this  country  remember  that  I  now  bespeak 
a  pretty  little  sinecure  to  make  amends  for  the  money 
now  taken  from  me  without  my  consent,  to  support 
measures  which  I  from  my  heart  execrate.  I  am 
now  at  Hedley  the  name  of  the  country  place  I 
mentioned  to  you  above,  the  bargain  is  at  an  end, 
and  I  must  now  look  out  elsewhere.  I  have  it  only 
for  one  Year  and  I  am  not  sorry  for  it.  There  is 
in  this  neighbourhood  the  most  beautiful  of  beautiful 
places,  and  it  is  either  to  be  let  or  sold,  and  I  intend 
if  it  be  not  out  of  the  reach  of  my  Pocket  to  put 
in  for  it.  One  Hundred  acres  of  grass  enclosed  with 
park  pales  is  the  whole,  but  then  there  is  a  River, 
the  prettiest  I  ever  saw,  woods  enchanting,  the  Garden 
is  the  best  in  the  world  for  the  size,  and  on  the 
whole    I    would    with    alacrity    exchange    my   future 


1776]  Zbc  ftancis  Xetters  267 

sinecure  for  it  and  give  to  boot  six  or  seven  thousand 
Pounds,  pray  that  I  may  have  purchased  it  for  I  am 
clear  it  will  exactly  suit  your  Taste,  I  know  you  like 
fish  catching,  I  am  told  they  are  in  great  abundance. 
Chandler  has  bought  Lord  Pomfrets  at  Sunning  Hill 
for  1 1  Thousand  Guineas.  .  .  .  Your  family  are  all  well 
and  Jolly.  .  .  .  Lord  Dunmore  has  forged  ;^5o,ooo  of 
the  paper  money  of  America  and  he  claims  great  merit 
from  the  glorious  exploit.  Adieu.  If  you  were  within 
ten  days  riding  post  I  would  pay  you  a  visit.  Baggs 
the  Major  is  gone  to  Paris.  Baggs  the  Parson^  is 
in  London. 

"  I  shall  carry  this  Letter  to  London  to-morrow 
if  anything  should  occur  before  the  Packet  sails  I 
will  send  you  a  postscript  apart.  Take  care  of  your 
health  and  believe  me, 

"  Yours  affectionately, 

"  D.  Godfrey. 

"  My  Brother  desires  his  love  to  you." 

Philip  Francis  to  Gen.   Fraser. 

"  Calcutta, 
'^  21st  August,  1776. 

"Mr.  Mackenzie  delivered  me  your  Letter  of  the 

1 2th  of  January,  for  which  I  return  you  my  thanks. 

I  have  also  received  another  from  you  by  Mr.  Fraser, 

whom    I    shall   be   glad   to   serve   if  an   opportunity 

offers ;   but    the   military  is  not  in    my    Department, 

and    I    interfere   in    it  as   little   as    I    can.  .  .  .  The 

1  The  sister  of  Dr.  Francis,  Mary,  married  Isham  Baggs,  Esq., 
of  Dublin.  Their  sons  were  Major  Philip  Baggs  and  the  Rev. 
Stephen  Baggs. 


268  xtbe  iftancis  Xctters  [1776 

territorial  Acquisitions,  in  their  present  Course,  will, 
I  think,  be  a  Burthen  to  the  governing  Power  within 
a  much  shorter  Time,  than  People  at  home  are 
aware  of.  As  to  myself,  I  shall  only  say,  that  my 
endeavours,  to  acquit  myself  honorably  of  the  Trust 
reposed  in  me,  have  been  more  laborious  than  is 
likely    to   be   credited   by   men,    who   have   had    no 

Experience  of  the  Nature  of  this  d Climate,  and 

do  not  know  how  little  it  is  suited  to  any  Exertion 
of  the  Faculties  either  of  Body  or  Mind.  .  .  .  When 
proper  Opportunities  offer,  I  beg  of  you  to  represent 
me  as  I  am, — much  more  ambitious  of  the  Esteem 
of  those  Persons  whose  Opinions  I  ought  to  respect, 
than  solicitous  about  their  Favour. 

"  In  this  last  Article  I  do  not  include  Mrs.  Eraser 
or  the  Margate  Coterie.  I  have  not  Resolution 
enough  to  relinquish  willingly  any  Part  of  the  regard, 
with  which  they  may  think  fit  to  honour  me  ;  the' 
Esteem  perhaps  requires  more  Observation  and  Re- 
flection, than  may  reasonably  be  imposed  upon  a 
Lady.  If  I  cannot  have  both,  I  will  endeavour  to 
be  content  with  their  favour. 

*'  I  have  the  honor  to  be  etc.  ... 

"P.  Francis. 

"  P.S.  On  the  15th  instant,  a  Ship  arrived  here  from 
Suez  with  Letters  from  England  so  low  as  the  20th 
of  May.     We   have  read  the  Newspaper  containing, 
an  Account  of  the  Ballot  on  the  1 7th  of  that  Month. 
Such  a  Passage  is  almost  miraculous." 

The  following  letter  to  Mr.  Francis's  son  Philip 
was    written    in    copy-book    hand.       The    boy   was 


1776]  Zhc  iprancts  Xetters  269 

eight  years  old  at  the  time,  and  was  at  school  with 

Mr.    Ribouville,    who   is   often    mentioned    in    Mrs. 

Francis's  Journal. 

"  Calcutta, 
"  i6^h  Sept.,  1776. 

"  My  dearest  Philip, 

"If  I  had  any  Time  to  bestow  upon  my 
Pleasures,  I  should  certainly  employ  a  considerable 
Part  of  it  in  answering  the  Letters  you  have  been 
so  good  as  to  write  to  me.  I  am  greatly  in  your 
Debt,  because  I  look  upon  your  Improvement  in 
your  Education,  as  an  Obligation  conferred  upon 
myself  By  the  Time  I  return  to  England,  you 
will  be  old  enough  to  be  my  Friend  and  Companion  ; 
and  you  shall  be  so,  provided  I  find  that  your  present 
School  Fellows  love,  you,  and  that  you  are  honest 
and  good  natured,  and  not  overbearing  or  insolent. — 
I  am  very  well  pleased  with  your  writing,  and  obliged 
to  Mr.  Ribouville  for  paying  so  much  Attention 
to  it.  I  desire  when  you  have  the  honour  of  seeing 
Lady  Bathurst,  you  will  deliver  my  humble  Thanks 
to  her  Ladyship  for  the  Notice  she  has  been  so  good 
as  to  take  of  you.  You  must  do  the  same  to  Lady 
Clive.  The  Favour  of  these  Ladies  will  always  do 
you  Credit ;  but  as  to  the  dancing  School  and 
Misses,  I  hope  you  have  better  Things  to  attend 
to. — Desire  your  Friend  Mr.  Godfrey  to  have  you 
taught  the  Soldier's  Exercise.  In  short  you  must 
be  a  Man  in  every  Thing,  if  you  intend  to  keep  me 
Company. 

"  Farewell   my   dearest  Philip,   you  are  never  out 
of  my  Thoughts. 

"P.  Francis." 


27©  ztbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1776 

John  Bourke  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London, 

"  My  dear  Francis,  "29  October,  1776. 

"  I  thank  you  much  for  the  favour  of  your 
Letter  of  the  20th  March  by  the  Talbot.  .  .  . 

"  I   mourn  as  you  do  (I  wish  I  could  mourn  with 

you,    as    I    am   of  opinion  that  Sorrow,  like  labour, 

when  divided  becomes  brighter)  at  the    Effusion    of 

English  blood,  by   English  hands ;   at  the    waste  of 

treasure  and  interruption  of  Commerce,   and   at  the 

feuds  and   Animosities  that  tear  asunder  the  Sacred 

bands  of  fellowship,  friendship  and  brotherly  affection, 

in   an   unnatural,    cruel  and  Sanguinary    Contention. 

Alas !     Alas !     my   friend !     America   is   not,    I    fear 

never  will  be  again,  what  she  has  been  to  us,  a  fatal 

perseverance   in    ill   advised    measures    has   made    a 

breach  between  two  parts  of  the    Empire,    that  the 

soundest  policy  will  never,   I  fear,  be  able  to  repair. 

In  consequence  of  an  Act  prohibiting  all  Intercourse 

with  the  Americans,  and  declaring  all   their    Effects 

taken   lawful   prizes   to   the   Captors,    they   have,    in 

General   Congress,  composed  of  Delegates  from  the 

Several  Colonies,  declared  themselves  independent  of 

the  British  Crown  and  Parliament,  in  what  manner,  and 

under  what  Circumstances  they  can  recede  from  this 

act,  which  involves  them,  if  subdued,  in  all  the  Guilt  and 

all  the  punishment  of  rebellious  and  revolted  Subjects, 

I  cannot  forsee,  but  it  requires  little  penetration  to  see! 

that,  unless   they  do   recede,  they  are   lost  to  us  as 

fellow  Subjects,  though  they  may  become  our  Allies. 

"  That  beef-stake  &  bottle  of  Claret  at  the  Horn, 


1776]  XTbe  ifrancts  Xetters  271 

for  which  you  would  exchange  the  Luxuries  of  the 
East,  I  am  most  anxious  to  enjoy  with  you.  The 
troubles  in  America  have  sent  us  a  man,  one 
Tilgkman,  who  would  make  the  party  not  less  agree- 
able, to  him  I  would  add  the  Godfreys,  with  whom, 
&  Tilghman  I  dined  a  few  days  since,  when  your 
health  &  happiness  were  wished  in  a  Bumper.  If 
Tilghman  should  not  write  to  you  by  this  Opportunity, 
do  not  be  surprised.  He  is  with  the  Godfreys  in  the 
country  &  does  not,  I  fancy,  know  that  any  such 
offers.  I  was  acquainted  with  it  but  this  morning, 
the  shortness  of  the  Notice  must  be  my  Apology  for 
not  sending  you  any  Pamphlets. 

"  The  Parliament  meets  the  day  after  tomorrow, 
never  was  there  greater  curiosity  for  a  King's  speech. 
Our  Army  &  Navy  have  taken  Long  Island,  in  the 
vicinity  of  New  York.  Accounts  have  been  received 
that  the  City  had  Surrendered,  on  the  17  Sept.,  but 
as  they  are  not  come  authenticated  to  Government, 
the  Speech  must  come  out  unadorned  by  this  sprig  of 
Laurel.  Our  news  Papers  have  armed  the  Kingdoms 
of  Spain  &  Portugal  against  each  other,  &  that  of 
France  against  us.  Stocks  fall  though  an  Ambassador 
is  just  arrived  from  Paris.  Extraordinary  bounties  are 
offered  to  Seamen,  &  some  ships  of  the  line  getting 
ready  for  equipment. — All  this,  except  the  arrival  of 
the  Ambassador,  looks  war,  yet  it  is  said  we  are  to 
be  informed  that  the  dispositions  of  the  European 
Powers  are  pacific — this  moment  I  hear,  there  was 
a  hot  Press  ^  in  the  River  last  night.     Bella,  horrida 

^  For  sailors. 


272  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  [1776 

bella.  Our  court  it  is  said  has  required  an  Explana- 
tion of  the  Encouragement  given  to  the  Americans 
in  their  Ports ;  &  this  is  the  cause  of  difference.  I 
fear  you  will  have  other  Enemies  to  contend  with, 
besides  Injustice,  Rapine  &  the  Marattas. 

"  I  should  not  forget  Intelligence  from  Bengal 
which  I  heard  last  night.  Barwell  has  lost  at  play, 
Sixty  lacks  \sic\  of  Rupees.  Leslie  won  Ten,  Le 
Maistre  20,  &  Francis  the  Remainder :  some  say  we 
may  read  thousand  Pounds  Ster.  for  Lacs.  Let  me 
give  Francis  a  piece  of  advice,  though  it  may 
probably  arrive  18  months  too  late,  if  he  has  won, 
let  him  keep  what  he  has  got,  &  avoid  high  play. 

"  George  Shee,^  that  Nephew  of  mine  whom 
you  mention,  must,  if  he  is  alive,  be  with  you  before 
now,  as  he  has  written  to  me  that,  in  consequence 
of  my  Instruction,  he  should  avail  himself  of  the 
Company's  permission  &  go  to  Bengal. 

"  I  wanted  to  have  him,  at  all  events,  under  your 
patronage :  a  few  words  respecting  him  you  will 
indulge  me  with.  I  declare  to  God,  I  never  knew 
so  deserving  a  young  man.  I  do  not  know  a  virtue 
which  he  wants  ;  nor  a  vice  of  which  I  can  accuse 
him,  he  is  my  albus  Gallus.  On  his  prosperity  the 
Solace  necessary  to  my  old  Age  may  depend.  The 
Death  of  a  brother  in  Jamaica,  &  the  loss  of  business 
consequent  of  it  has  altered  my  Situation,  non  sum 
qualis  eram. 

"It  is  but  fitting  you  should  know,  that  your 
character  for  acts  of  benevolence  &  friendship  stands 

^  George  Shee  (afterwards  Sir  George  Shee)  became  a  great  friend 
of  Francis,  and  for  some  time  acted  as  his  Private  Secretary. 


1776]  Xlbe  ifrancis  Xetters  273 

very  high  here ;  your  Heathys  Collins,  &c.  &c.  bear 
honourable  &  grateful  Testimony  of  your  disposition. 
Tell  me  what  I  can  send  you  from  home,  many  are 
more  capable,  none  can  be  more  willing  to  oblige 
you.  God  bless  you,  who  are  doing  good  to  your 
Generation,  &  preserve  you  long  amongst  them. 
May  the  Same  Power  forgive  &  take  to  himself 
the  authors  of  the  Complication  of  distresses  under 
which  this  Country  labours.  I  am, 
"  My  dear  Francis, 

"  Your  truly  affec'*  friend 

"Jn°.  Bourke. 

"  Two  Armies  composed  of  Natives,  Hessians, 
Wolfenbattlers  &  Brunswickers,  &  consisting  of 
50,000  men  at  least,  with  the  greatest  train  of 
Artillery  ever  sent  out  of  England  &  100  Sail  of 
commissioned  ships  besides  Transports  victualers  &c 
now  employed  in  the  Reduction  of  America.  Our 
trade  left  exposed  to  the  depredations  of  little 
privateers  &  row  boats,  near  Seventy  ships  already 
taken ;  some  under  our  noses,  off  Ushant,  to  the 
Loss  to  Proprietors  &  the  Revenue  of  ;^8oo,ooo 
at  least. 

"  Our  Islands  deprived  of  the  Support   they  draw 
from  America,  threatened  with  Famine  &  insurrection. 
"  The  charges  of  Insurance  increased  5  fold 

"  Ireland  dismantled  of  Troops  & 

"  England  (I  tremble  while  I  write)  upon  the  Eve 
of  a  Foreign   War. 

"  One  of  these  German  Princes  from  whom  we 
have  hired  Subsidiary  troops,  I  am  told  wrote  to  his 
Agent  in  Paris,  in  the  following  words, 

18 


274 


Ube  ifrancts  Xetters 


[1776 


^^  ^  Envoy ez  moi  la  meilleure  Danseuse  et  la 
meilleure  chanteuse  quil  y  ait  a  Paris,  ce  sont 
Messieurs  les  Anglois  qui  payeront  tout  fa." 

"  I  take  the  Liberty  to  enclose  a  Letter  for  George 
Shee." 

Concerning  Francis's  winnings  at  whist,  alluded 
to  in  J.  Bourke's  letter  dated  Oct.  29th,  1 776,  Francis 
had  written  to  his  friend  Mr.  Chandler  in  March  of 
the  same  year. 

"An  extraordinary  stroke  of  fortune  has  made  me 
independent.  Two  years  more  will  probably  raise 
me  to  affluent  circumstances." 

Writing  to  Mr.  D.  Godfrey,  he  explains  what  the 
extraordinary  stroke  of  fortune  had  been  : — 

"  You  must  know,  my  Friend,  that  on  one  blessed 
day  of  the  present  year  of  our  Lord  (1776)  I  had 
won  about  ;!^20,ooo  at  Whist.  It  is  reduced  to 
about  ;!^ 1 2,000,  and  I  now  never  play  but  for  trifles, 
and  that  only  once  a  week." 

To  Mr.  D'Oyly  on  the  same  subject  Francis  says, 
feeling,  perhaps,  that  such  high  play  needed  an  excuse : 
"It  was  an  incidental  burst,  which  lasted  only  a 
few  weeks";  and  further  he  says  that  he  had  given 
way  to  the  fascination  of  gambling  in  order  to  get 
rid  of  a  fit  of  extreme  depression. 

A.  Mackrabie  was  taken  ill  in  August,  1776,  his 
illness  being  the  effect  of  the  climate  of  India.  It  was 
hoped  that  if  he  left  Calcutta  and  took  a  voyage  his 
health  would  be  restored,  but  the  remedy  was  tried 
too  late  and  he  succumbed.     Instead  of  continuing  the 


1776]  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  275 

voyage,  he  had  to  be  landed  on  the  coast,  in  the 
district  of  Orissa,  which  had  then  the  reputation  of 
being  a  healthy  spot,  and  there  he  lingered  for  some 
months.  He  died  in  November,  1776.  We  have  no 
record  of  his  failing  days,  nor  any  memorandum  of 
leave-takings  that  he  may  have  sent  to  those  in 
England  he  loved  so  well.  The  last  words  in  his 
Journal  were  :  "  God  Almighty  bless  and  preserve 
you  all  prays  yours  A.   M." 

When  we  turn  from  the  brother's  to  the  sister's 
Journal,  we  find  Mrs.   Francis  writing  : — 

''Jan.  \st,  1776.  My  six  children  and  I  drank  a 
happy  New  Year  to  us  and  all  the  world,  but  most 
particularly  remembered  our  dearest  friends  in  India. 
...  I  played  on  the  Harpsichord,  and  the  children 
danced  and  we  were  all  very  happy." 

During  the  course  of  this  year  Mrs.  Francis  lost  her 
cousin  Patty,  who  has  been  mentioned  as  living  with 
the  parents  at  Fulham.  She  died  on  November  26th, 
1776.  Mrs.  Francis,  in  recording  the  event,  says: 
"  How  sorry  my  brother  will  be."  He  died,  as 
we  have  seen,  during  the  same  month.  On  December 
1 2th,  1776,  Mrs.  Francis  writes  in  her  Journal  : — 

"  Went  to  Fulham  and  found  my  Father  not  near 
so  well,  [he  had  been  ailing  for  some  time]  was  in 
great  pain ;  he  desired  me  to  pack  up  his  Journal 
which  I  brought  to  Town  with  me — poor  man,  it  is 
left  off  in  the  middle  of  a  word." 

Mr.    Mackrabie,    however,    lingered    on    until   the 


276  Ube  3franci0  Xetters  [1777 

spring  of    1777.      On    February    13th    of  that   year 
we  find  this  entry  in   Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  : — 

"  My  dear  Mack's  birthday,  I  went  to  Fulham 
to  dine  and  took  my  two  girls  to  celebrate  this 
Festival  with  our  good  old  Folks,  my  Father  was  just 
got  up  and  sat  in  Blankets  in  the  great  chair  and  was 
but  poorly,  my  mother  very  glad  to  see  us.  We 
drank  the  health  of  the  day  [the  brother  had  already 
been  dead  three  months],  my  poor  father  I  fear  will 
not  survive  it  long." 

These  fears  were  just,  for  we  find  March  20th 
written  down  a  black-letter  day  : — 

"  This  day  has  a  bad  beginning  indeed,  as  soon  as  I 
had  breakfasted  came  a  messenger  from  Fulham,  my 
poor  Father,  alas !  he  is  no  more — he  was  taken 
extremely  ill  on  Wednesday  and  at  seven  in  the 
evening  he  departed  ;  after  a  hard  struggle,  he  was 
quiet  and  composed,  he  was  quite  sensible  and  asked 
for  my  mother,  but  when  she  went  to  him  had  not  a 
word  to  say,  but  why  did  she  cry  ?  He  asked  if  I 
was  there,  I  had  not  the  satisfaction  to  be  present, 
oh  !  I  could  have  wished  it,  let  me  have  suffered  ever 
so  much — he  talked  much  of  our  dear  Mack.  We 
have  lost  a  worthy  good  friend  ;  you  may  believe,  we 
were  all  here  much  affected  with  such  a  loss.  I  sent 
Collins  for  my  mother — she,  poor  woman  is  to  be 
pitied,  she  will  remain  with  me  till  I  have  fixed  upon 
a  house  and  then  she  will  take  an  apartment  near." 

Mrs.  Francis's  fears  about  her  brother's  health  had 
been  aroused  by  passages  in  her  husband's  letter  to 


1777]  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  277 

her,  but  in  the  June  of  1777  on  the  2nd  she  says  in 
her  Journal : — 

"  After  dinner  I  received  a  most  severe  shock 
when  I  hoped  to  have  been  made  happy,  a  letter, 
of  yours  [her  husband's]  had  some  words  inter- 
lined about  my  dear  brother  that  have  entirely  put 
a  stop  to  all  hopes  and  I  fear  the  worst  in  every 
shape.  You  seem  timid  in  writing  and  I  think  must 
dread  to  tell  me  the  melancholy  truth.  I  went  in  the 
afternoon  to  my  mother  and  endeavoured  to  prepare 
her  for  the  shock.  She  was  much  affected  and 
suspects  the  worst. 

''June  i2tk.  Spent  a  pleasant  day  at  Fulham  as 
Mr.  Mitchell  had  wrote  me  a  letter  in  which  he  says 
he  has  not  heard  any  particular  accounts  of  my  dear 
brother's  health  and  gives  me  great  reason  to  hope  he 
is  still  alive.     I  will  make  myself  happy  with  hopes." 

These  hopes  lasted  a  few  weeks,  and  in  July  the 
entry  in  the  Journal  is  : — 

"  I  must  own  your  letter  dated  Jan.  9th  was  heart- 
breaking. When  I  had  been  flattering  myself  that 
my  poor  Brother  was  on  the  Recovery — you  say — 
'  you  shall  administer  to  his  effects.'  You  never  told 
me  he  was  dead.     When  did  it  happen  and  where.  .  .  . 

"In  the  packet  of  Letters,  you  sent  one  from 
my  dearest  Brother  to  my  Father — this  affects  me 
greatly  indeed.  I  shall  keep  it  for  his  sake — also  a 
Duplicate  of  a  Letter  sent  to  me  from  him  and  a 
little  drawing  of  a  Head  called  Mr.  Barwell.  He 
says    in    his   letter  to    my    Father    he   thinks   he   is 


278 


Zbc  f  rands  Xetters 


[1777 


getting  better.  Oh  !  what  a  disappointment  to  all  of 
us  and  a  severe  loss  to  you.  As  to  my  mother  I 
have  not  told  her,  she  is  not  able  to  bear  such 
strokes.  I  expect  her  death  every  day — think  how 
hard  these  things  are  upon  me,  indeed  with  so  many 
frights  and  griefs  I  am  seldom  well." 

On  August  28th,  1777,  Mrs.  Francis  writes: — 
'*  Our  doubts  and  fears  are  over,  my  dear  mother 
expired  this  morning  almost  without  a  groan.  She 
has  not  taken  any  notice  of  us  for  some  days  past.  I 
regret  much  to  part  with  her,  but  God's  will  must  be 
done.  I  feel  it  very  hard  to  have  lost  four  such  near 
and  dear  friends  in  ten  months.  Father,  Mother, 
Brother  and  cousin. 

"  SepL  2nd.  A  dull  day,  the  day  of  my  mother's 
funeral.  She  always  desired  to  be  laid  by  my  poor 
Father  at  Fulham  [Mrs.  Mackrabie  had  come  to  live 
near  her  daughter  in  London  before  her  death]. 
Collins  went  early  in  the  morning  in  order  to  attend 
it.  My  mother's  maid  with  her  husband  and  nurse 
were  the  four  mourners.  Many  of  her  friends  and 
neighbours  shed  tears  to  see  her  body  brought  back 
so  soon  and  deposited  beside  my  poor  father.  My 
heart  is  full ;  yet  it  is  proper  to  bear  all  with  patience." 

The  loss  of  his  friend  and  secretary  Alexander 
Mackrabie  caused  great  sorrow  to  Mr.  Francis.  In 
writing  to  Mr.  Chandler  he  said  : — 

"  Your  own  feelings  will  give  you  the  best  idea  of 
the  affliction  that  has  fallen  upon  me.  But  who  will 
communicate  the  fatal  intelligence  to  his  unhappy 
Sister  ?     I    sent  a  letter  by  the  way  of  Suez  lately 


1777]  Ube  3ftands  Xetters  279 

to  Mr.  Godfrey  which  I  hope  will  have  prepared 
her  mind  for  the  worst  news ;  if  not  I  must  solicit 
the  kind  offices  of  Mrs.  Chandler  to  break  it  to  her, 
in  what  terms  I  know  not." 

Alexander  Mackrabie  was  loved  by  all  who  knew 
him,  and  he  was  himself  an  enthusiastic  friend.  It  has 
been  said  of  his  feelings  towards  his  chief  that  not 
only  did  he  love  his  brother-in-law  as  a  friend,  but 
worshipped  him  almost  as  an  idol.  During  his  illness, 
when  he  wrote  to  Francis  he  called  him  his  "  best 
and  dearest  friend."  "  Sick  or  well,  I  am  yours  with 
the  truest  affection." 

Richard  Tilghman,  Francis's  American  cousin  and 
Mackrabie's  friend,  came  to  India  shortly  after  the 
death  of  the  latter  to  try  his  fortune  as  a  barrister. 
He  also  attached  himself  to  Francis  as  secretary  and 
right  hand  man ;  but  from  this  time  we  miss  the  light 
hand  of  Mackrabie  in  describing  the  life  and  sur- 
roundings of  Francis  in  India. 

Richard  Tilghman  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London, 
'''■Jan.  i^h,  1777. 

"  My  dear  Francis, 

"  By  the  last  fleet  I  writ  to  Mr.  Secretary 
Mackrabie,  and  now  I  have  the  honour  to  address 
myself  to  the  Tyrant  of  Indostan.  After  a  thousand 
delays  I  have  obtained  the  permission  of  the  Direction 
to  proceed  to  Bengal,  not  simply,  but  sub  modo  ;  that 
is  to  say  upon  condition  of  my  going  to  Dublin  and 
being  called  to  the  Irish  bar.  .  .  .  This  will  put  me 
to   some   inconvenience :    however    I    can   return   to 


28o  Ube  3franct6  Xetters  [1777 

England  in  time  to  get  out  in  the  last  ship.  Believe 
me  I  shall  not  be  grieved  when  the  time  of  my  de- 
parture from  this  country  arrives.  I  shall  feel  none 
of  that  reluctance  which  hung  about  me  when  I  went 
last  to  America.  Alas !  why  should  I  ?  London  is 
not  what  it  was  to  me,  Fitzpatrick  is  dead  ;  you  are 
gone  ;  and  J[ohn]  B[ourke]  is  as  heavy  as  old  age. 
I  have  never  ventured  to  put  my  foot  in  the  Crown 
Coffee  House,  indeed  I  never  see  it  without  being 
filled  with  melancholy.  Farewell !  Remember  me 
to  Mack  ^ — you  and  he  are  my  all  in  India.  I 
am  most  impatient  to  be  with  you. 

"  Yours  most  faithfully, 

"  R.    TiLGHMAN." 

In  the  spring  of  the  year  1777  Francis  began  to 
keep  a  Journal,  from  which  some  entries  have  been 
selected  : — 

A  Leaf  from  Philip  Francis's  Journal,   1777. 

"May  ^th,  1777.  Set  out  for  Kishnagur  with 
Ducarel  and  Bristow ;  slept  at  Pulta  at  Mr.  Prinsep's. 

"  iitk.     Proceeded  in  the  evening.     Budgerow. 

'' \2th.     Budgerow.     Infernally  hot. 

"  iTyth.  Landed  in  the  afternoon  at  Nuddea ;  met 
by  the  Rajah's  eldest  son,  with  presents  of  fruit  &c. 

"In  Palanquins  to  Kishnagur. 

"  \^th.     Well  entertained  by  Mr.  Shore. 

"  i^th.  Visit  from  the  old  Rajah,  which  I  returned, 
and  saw  an  immense  palace  in  ruins,  and  the  prince 
of  the  country,   a  venerable  old  man,   lodged  in  one 

^  The  news  of  Mackrabie's  death  had  not  yet  reached  England. 


1777]  trbc  jfrancis  Xetters  281 

corner  of  it,  in  a  state  of  beggary  and  misery  not 
to  be  believed. 

"  \6th.  Set  out  on  horseback  on  our  return  by  the 
way  of  Sooksagur.  Arrive  at  Croftes's  at  two  o'clock 
in  the  morning  excessively  tired. 

"  \']th.  Proceed  in  the  Budgerow  to  Hughley  and 
forced  to  sleep  in  it. 

"  i^th.  Breakfast  and  dine  at  Motte's  with  Lady 
Impey.  Sup  at  Chinsura,  at  Mr.  Radamacker's,  with 
all  the  Dutch  Factory ;  plenty  of  victuals  and  civility 
but  as  dull  as  Rotterdam  :  returned  late  by  myself 
to  Pulta  where  I  slept. 

"  19///.     Return  to  breakfast  at  Calcutta.     Council. 

''June  6tk.  Rev[enue]  Board.  A  curious  but 
shocking  account  of  Capt.  Browne's  Expedition  against 
the  Hill  People  in  his  district  and  the  dreadful 
devastations  committed  by  his  troops." 

John  Bourke  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London, 
"27  June,  1777. 

"  My  dear  Francis, 

"  I  wrote  you  a  few  days  ago  by  the  way  of 
Madrass.  poor  Will  Burke  who  went  over  land,  to 
carry  the  Company's  dispatches  to  Lord  Pigot,  took 
charge  of  my  letter,  &  will  send  it  by  the  first  con- 
veyance to  Calcutta. 

"  I  have  some  information  that  the  Court  of 
Directors  have  written  to  Mr.  Clavering  in  terms  of 
the  strongest  Solicitation  to  continue  in  his  Employ- 
ment.    Should   he    not   comply   with   their    Request, 


282  Ube  jfrancts  Xettcrs  [1777 

&  that  Mr.  Hastings  should  Hkewise  return,  the  Office 
of  President  will,  I  think,  devolve  on  you ;  as  the 
vacancies  in  Council  will  be  filled  by  men  disposed  to 
act  with  you,  your  business  will  be  easy,  &  you  cannot 
fail  of  enjoying  what  I  most  Sincerely  wish  you — 
peace  and  tranquility  of  mind. 

**  The  Session  of  Parliament  is  ended.  Five  million 
of  new  money  has  been  raised  for  the  purpose  of  the 
American  war,  &  the  prospect  of  finishing  that  war 
seems  as  remote  as  ever.  The  French  are  the  only 
gainers  by  the  Contest,  except  a  few  Individuals, 
such  as  Contractors,  Paymasters,  &  Generals.  The 
American  Ships  find  an  easy  entrance  into  the  Ports 
of  France,  where  they  dispose  of  their  Commodities, 
and  purchase  military  stores.  In  the  West  Indies  the 
Game  is  played  in  a  different  manner.  From  the 
Islands  of  Guadeloupe  &  Martinoe  many  vessells 
have  been  fitted  out,  having  but  one  American  on 
board,  with  a  Commission  from  the  Congress,  those 
vessels  take  clearances  for  the  Spanish  main,  or  other 
ports,  as  protection,  in  case  they  are  stopped  by  our 
Cruizers.  the  Cruizers  no  longer  in  Sight,  they 
assume  the  Characters  of  Privateers  under  their 
American  Captain,  make  prizes  of  defenceless  ships, 
&  carry  them  into  French  ports,  &  sell  them 
publickly.  These  facts  have  been  stated  to  the  W. 
Ind.  Merchants ;  they  have  laid  them  before  the 
Ministers  ;  the  ministers  have  probably  referred  them 
to  our  Ambassador,  &  the  Ambassador  has  probably 
demonstrated  at  the  French  court.  Still  the  evil 
is  unremedied,  I  fear  the  English  language  has  lost 
its  energy  at  foreign   Courts.     We  are   wasting  our 


THE    HON.    EDMUND    BURKE. 


Page\28i.] 


1777]  Ube  ifrancis  Xetters  283 

blood  and  treasure  in  endeavouring   to    destroy   the 
object  that  gave  it  vigour. 

"J.  B. 

"  Baggs,  the  Major,  has  fought  a  Duel  in  France, 
with  the  notified  FitzGerald,  they  were  both  wounded. 
Baggs  has  got  reputation." 

The  "  Poor  Will  Burke  "  mentioned  in  John's  letter 
of  June  27th  was  a  brother  of  Edmund  Burke.  Mr. 
Francis's  notice  of  him  had  been  solicited  in  a  letter 
from  John  to  Mr.    Francis  dated  April  29th,   1777. 

"  Such  is  the  prejudice  against  his  name  and 
principles,"  writes  John  of  William,  "  that  although 
he  was  10  years  in  Parliament  and  under  secretary 
to  Gen.  Conway,  with  a  fair  character  for  morals 
and  ability,  he  had  not  interest  sufficient  to  obtain 
any  station  in  the  Company's  Service.  ...  His  wish 
was  to  go  to  Bengal  in  some  situation  such  as 
would  place  him  within  reach  of  your  assistance,  this 
was  likewise  Edmund's  wish,  but  they  had  not 
interest  enough  to  obtain  it." 

Edmund  Burke  wrote  to  Mr.  Francis  about  his 
brother,  June  9th,   1777. 

**  This  wide  Empire,"  he  says,  "will  frequently 
disperse  those  who  are  dear  to  one  another ;  but  if 
this  dispersion  of  their  persons  does  not  loosen  their 
regards  it  every  now  and  then  gives  such  opportunities 
of  unexpected  meeting  as  almost  compensate  the 
pain  of  separation.  .  .  .  These  thoughts  occur  to  me 
in  parting  with  a  friend  whom  I  have  tenderly  loved, 
highly  valued,  and  continually  lived  with,  in  an  union 
not  to  be  expressed,  quite  since  our  boyish  years.  .  .   . 


284  XTbe  jprancis  Xetters  [1777 

If  he  should  visit  your  Kingdom  I  trust  that  he  will 
find  a  friend  there  whose  manner  of  serving  him  will 
not  be  in  the  style  of  those  who  acquit  themselves 
of  a  burthen.  His  first  views  are  at  Madras,  but 
all  India  is  now  closely  connected  and  your  influence 
and  power  is  such  that  you  may  serve  him  very 
materially  even  there.  I  will  not  wrong  your 
friendship  by  pressing  this  matter  any  further,  but 
it  is  indeed  near  to  my  heart. 

"  I  am  with  the  most  sincere  esteem  and  affection 
your  most  faithful  and  obedient,  humble  servant 

"  E.  Burke. 

^^June  9.  1777." 


From  Philip  Francis's  Journal. 

^'  June  2,0th.  On  Monday  Gen.  Clavering  invests 
himself  with  the  Order  of  the  Bath  and  we  attend 
Council.  A  lucky  Star  it  is,  and  appears  to  us  at 
a  most  seasonable  juncture.  The  Governor  orders 
a  salute  and  recommends  circulars  to  notify  the  honour 
done  to  Clavering.  I  thought  this  a  pitiful  con- 
descension. 

''July  ^th.    Sup  with  Hastings  at  Impey's,  long  faces. 

"  9M.  News  of  Mrs.  Imhoff  s  divorce  and  hopes 
of  her  marriage  with  Hastings. 

''July  26ih.  Nothing.  Sup  at  Impey's.  Her 
ladyship  swears  stoutly  that  Madame  Imhoff*  shall 
pay  her  the  first  visit — an  idea  which  I  don't  fail 
to  encourage. 

"July  29M.  I  find  by  private  letters  dated  Feb.  5  th 
that  I  stand  as  high  at  home  as  I  could  wish. 


1777]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  285 

"Mrs  Imhoff  sups  at  Lady  Impey's  by  way  of 
submission. 

''Aug.  i()th.  Clavering  very  ill  and  I  think  in 
great  danger. 

"  2ist.  Sup  at  the  Governor's.  Mrs.  Hastings 
very  handsomely  acknowledges  my  constant  attentions 
to  her. 

"  The  lady  herself  is  really  an  accomplished  woman. 
She  behaves  with  perfect  propriety  in  her  new  station 
and  deserves  every  mark  of  respect. 

Aug.  2)^th.  Sir  John  Clavering,  after  a  delirium 
of  many  hours,  expired  at  ^  past  2  p.m.,  and  was 
buried  at  8  in  the  most  private  manner.  The 
Governor  ordered  minute  guns.  I  waited  on  the 
ladies  and  pressed  them  to  remove  to  my  house, 
but  they  declined  it.  I  attended  the  Funeral  on  foot 
to  the  grave. 

"  Nov.  iitk.     Tilghman  arrives  this  morning." 

Philip  Francis  to  Mrs.  Francis. 

"  Mrs.  Wheler^  the  latest  arrival  from  Europe 
introduced  a  novelty  at  Calcutta — viz.,  she  appeared 
in  public  for  the  first  time  at  our  ball  the  night  before 
last  in  wonderful  splendour.  At  sight  of  her  hoop 
all  our  beauties  stared  with  envy  and  admiration.  I 
never  saw  the  like  in  all  my  life." 


Here   follow   some   extracts   from    Mrs.    Francis's 
Journal  during  the  years  1776  and  1777.    Allusions  to 

^  Wife  of  Mr.  Wheler,  a  member  of  the  Council,  lately  sent  from 
England ;  he  had  been  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Directors.  ^ 


286  Ubc  jfrancis  Xetters  [1776 

her  brother  occur  now  and  then,  as  she  did  not  hear 
of  his  death  until  the  middle  of  the  latter  year. 

Mrs.  Francis's  Journal. 

"  All  our  dear  children  are  well,  except  Sally 
[Sally  was  frequently  ailing],  she  and  I  are  going 
to  try  the  cold  Bath  and  the  Islington  Spa  Water, — 
Betsy  is  well  and  not  near  so  fat,  Harriet  looks 
pale  and  thin,  but  is  in  general  much  admired,  Philip 
is  very  good,  only  too  volatile,  Mary  improves  and 
little  Kitty  is  still  the  same  agreeable  little  creature : 
upon  the  whole  without  partiality  they  are  a  charming 
set  of  children.  Collins  grows  fat  and  looks  better 
than  ever,  she  begs  her  duty  to  you  and  my  dear 
Mack :  your  old  friend  Tom  is  in  perfect  health  and 
of  late  has  not  committed  any  robberies.  Of  myself 
what  shall  I  say,  I  am  still  the  same  poor  weakly 
creature,  I  do  all  I  can  to  obtain  health  and  must 
be  contented  with  the  consequences." 

Several  presents  from  her  husband  are  acknow- 
ledged : — 

"  Thank  you  a  thousand  times  for  your  present  of 
a  purse  of  Morahs  [mohurs],  I  rather  wanted  a  little 
extraordinary  sum  of  money  and  as  to  goods  I  find 
they  are  attended  with  so  much  difficulty  to  get 
them  that  they  seldom  answer. 

"  Mr.  David  Godfrey  has  paid  me  my  money  for 
the  Gold  you  sent  me,  but  the  morahs  did  not  come 
to  so  much  as  you  expected.  I  kept  three  out,  One 
I  gave  to  Miss  H olden  and  two  I  kept.  Mr.  Godfrey 
got  for  the  47,  £6S.  19/  nothing  could  have  been  so 
acceptable  a  present  to  me  as  this." 


1776]  Ube  ^Francis  Xctters  287 

Again  : — 

"  Mr.  Lowder  sent  the  shawls,  I  cannot  be 
enough  grateful  to  you  for  mine  which  is  truly 
pretty,  but  the  other  I  can't  say  I  so  much  admire, 
the  pattern  is  so  large,  I  thought  Mrs.  Chandler 
would  not  like  it,  so,  I  hope  you  won't  be  angry, 
but  I  kept  that  shawl  and  shall  give  her  a  beautiful 
one,  the  fellow  to  Mrs.  Holden's,  I  feared  she  might 
suspect  your  taste  and  anything  that  lessens  you 
must  always  make  me  miserable,  you  know  her 
excessive  delicacy  and  I  wished  that  she  might  view 
it  with  pleasure.  I  have  given  good  Mother  Chitty 
the  dark  square  one  and  she  is  happy  and  thankful 
for  it.  The  muslins  are  beautiful,  particularly  the 
striped  and  sprigged.  The  striped  sell  for  £1.  1/ 
a  yard  here — as  for  the  sprigged  I  never  saw  any 
such  to  sell." 

Mrs.  Francis  does  not  always  praise  the  muslin 
sent : — 

"  I  have  got  my  parcel,  but  why  my  dearest  man 
must  you  still  send  me  plain  thin  book  muslin,  tis 
of  no  use  and  a  great  expense  to  you.  If  the  muslin 
was  Jaconet  it  would  have  done  better — however 
my  dearest  many  thanks  to  you." 

Once  we  find  mention  of  a  present  Mrs.  F.  sent 
to  India: — 

"  SepL  5/^,  1776.  I  went  out  and  bought  you  five 
pairs  of  laced  ruffles  and  beg  you  will  give  my  love 
to  my  dear  brother  and  beg  him  to  accept  one  pair 
of  them  as  a  present  from  me,  I  hope  you  will  like 


288  Ubc  iFtancls  Xetters  [1776 

them  all.  I  shall  be  proud  if  my  dearest  Philip  will 
accept  these  ruffles  as  my  present  and  would  be 
thankful  if  any  thing  I  can  do  would  but  give  you 
some  proof  of  my  gratitude  ;  believe  me  it  is  most 
sincere,  though  I  don't  know  to  how  express  it." 

Again,  on  the  receipt  of  some  gift  from  her  husband 
she  writes : — 

'*  Oct.  ist.  Your  letter  has  increased  my  former 
obligation  and  gratitude  to  you  for  so  unlimited  a 
credit,  but  do,  my  dearest  Love  believe  me  though 
I  am  perfectly  sensible  of  your  great  generosity  yet 
your  Love  weighs  more  with  me  and  seems  of  more 
real  value  than  all  this  world  can  bestow  upon  me. 

''Oct.  lotk,  1776.  I  went  to  drink  tea  with  Mrs. 
Chandler,  they  are  come  to  town  for  a  day  or  two 
to  order  their  house  to  be  painted.  Our  chief  talk 
was  about  you  and  the  great  victories  we  have 
obtained  over  the  Americans  in  having  taken  Long 
Island  and  killed  three  thousand  of  the  Provincials 
and  only  lost  and  wounded  of  our  own  People  but 
300.     This  is  the  present  Talk. 

"In  the  evening  both  Sunday  and  Monday  I 
entertained  myself  with  reading  your  dear  Letters 
which  I  received  the  year  before  we  married,  how 
happy  they  made  me  and  yet  how  unhappy,  I  could 
not  sleep  for  them.  Went  to  call  on  Mrs.  Chandler. 
She  was  just  setting  off  for  Sunbury  that  fine  house 
of  Lord  Pomfret's  they  have  purchased  for  twelve 
thousand  odd  pounds. 

"  I    am  just   going   to   have   a   handsome   suit   of 
green   cloathes  made  for  Philip,   I   can  assure  you  I 


1776]  Ube  yrancis  Xetters  289 

keep  him  very  genteel  ;  he  has  two  suits  a  year 
beside  Waistcoat  and  Breeches. 

''Nov.  27M,  1776.  Mr.  Sabine  Gascoyne  called 
[lately  come  from  India].  He  seems  grateful  to  you 
for  your  kindness  and  says  every  body  is  in  love 
with  my  brother.  He  talks  much  of  your  good  spirits 
which  I  was  thankful  to  hear  of  and  all  your  greatness. 
Every  word  he  told  me  was  valuable  and  I  only 
thought  his  visit  too  short. 

"  Saturday,  Dec.  'jth.  Mr.  Shepherd,  Purser  to  the 
Talbot  East  Indiaman,  brought  me  the  little  canvas 
Parcel  enclosing  200  Morahs.  I  found  the  money 
all  right  and  very  fine  gold.  Your  500  sequins  sold 
for  .;^233,  some  odd  shillings. 

"  I  received  the  little  hoop  Diamond  Ring  and 
four  pearls  which  I  thank  you  for.  The  ring  is 
too  small  and  I  intend  to  have  it  set  in  a  Heart  to 
fasten  my  handkerchief — I  shall  have  the  pleasure 
to  see  it  oftener  as  I  seldom  wear  rings  and  have 
one  of  the  same  sort  before." 

Mrs.  Francis  was  anxious  to  find  a  larger  house 
for  herself  and  her  family  than  the  one  in  Duke  Street, 
in  which  she  had  remained  after  her  husband  left 
her  to  go  to  I  ndia ;  she  had  a  larger  party  at  home 
since  the  two  elder  girls  had  left  school.  "  I  must 
have  a  tolerable  large  house  for  so  many  of  us,"  she 
writes  in   her  Journal  early   in  the  year  1777. 

"  Friday,  Jan.  24/^,  1777.  I  went  to  look  at  a  house 
with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler.  Mr.  Chandler  likes 
the  house  very  well  we  have  seen,  but  we  all  think 
too  high  a  Rent  £200  a  year. 

19 


290  XTbe  3f rands  Xetters  [1777 

"  Whilst  I  was  away  Mr.  Adair  [doctor]  came  and 
said  it  was  proper  to  bleed  Sally  and  Harriet  which 
he  did,  when  I  came  home  I  was  much  frightened, 
but  hope  it  will  be  of  use.  Harriet  after  the  Bleeding 
fainted  away  several  times  and  was  very  weak  and 
low,  but  the  pain  in  her  side  was  much  relieved,  she 
had  but  a  poor  night  and  is  very  indifferent. 

"  Feb.  2nd.  Mr.  Chandler  called,  told  me  that  he 
and  Mr.  D'Oyly  thought  the  Rent  which  I  persuaded 
the  Landlord  to  take  ;^i8o  was  too  much  for  me 
to  give.  I  wrote  Mr.  C.  a  list  of  all  my  necessary 
expenses  by  the  year,  allowing  for  this  high  Rent 
which  together  I  could  discharge  for  ;^  1,200  a  year, 
he  thought  it  too  much,  so  did  I,  but  I  can't  do  it 
for  much  less.  However  in  compliance  to  my  two 
Friends  I  have  given  up  the  House,  though  I  confess 
I  much  wished  to  have  it. 

"  Tuesday,  ^tk.  I  think  myself  much  better.  I 
have  changed  my  medicines  and  now  only  apply  to 
nervous  Herbs,  I  hope  they  will  be  of  service,  my 
spirits  are  better  and  I  sleep  better,  my  thoughts  are 
continually  with  you. 

"  March  6th.  I  went  to  Mr.  Chandler's  and  he 
showed  me  your  Letter  which  afforded  me  much 
Pleasure  and  some  Vanity,  at  the  kind  and  affectionate 
manner  you  express  yourself  to  me  and  your  dear 
Children,  I  pray  God  to  preserve  us  all  to  have  the 
Happiness  of  meeting  together  and  grant  our  satis- 
faction may  be  compleat  by  permitting  us  to  live  and 
enjoy  each  other  many  many  years. 

'*  March  13M.     I  am  not  yet  fixed  in  a  House,  for 


1777]  Ube  jfrancts  Xctters  291 

Mr.  Chandler  will  not  consent  to  my  paying  so  great 
a  Rent  as  ^200  a  year  and  I  cannot  meet  with  a 
tolerable  place  to  hold  us  for  less. 

''Saturday,  \^th.  I  set  off  again  House  hunting  but 
cannot  get  any  thing  but  at  a  great  Rent,  ;^I30  a 
year  is  the  lowest  price  and  then  a  very  small  house, 
hardly  room  to  put  us  in.  What  can  I  do  ?  I  don't 
know  how  to  act  to  please  everybody. 

"  I  and  my  two  girls  drank  tea  with  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Chandler — nothing  very  gay.  They  don't  seem  to 
consent  to  my  having  that  sweet  house  in  Harley 
Street — it  is  too  much  money — I  have  given  Philip 
a  Ticket,  cost  me  half  a  guinea,  for  his  dancing 
Master's  Ball. 

''Monday,  lylh.  I  am  still  uneasie  about  this  House 
and  have  at  last  determined  to  do,  what  I  hope 
you  my  dearest  Philip  will  approve,  if  so  I  am  happy 
and  will  not  mind  what  anybody  says,  but  if  you  do 
not  I  am  then  truly  miserable  at  having  acted  a  part 
entirely  by  myself  I  went  this  morning  and  have 
at  last  adventured  to  take  the  House  in  Harley  Street 
I  so  very  much  longed  for.  It  is  a  very  good  one 
and  every  way  pleasant  and  agreeable,  in  a  fine 
situation.  At  first  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler  were  both 
so  pleased  with  the  House  that  if  Mr.  D'Oyly  had 
agreed  Mr.  Chandler  would  have  bought  it  for 
;^3000,  ^19  a  year  Ground  Rent  and  after  that  Mr. 
Chandler  desired  me  to  offer  the  Landlord  who  is 
a  very  genteel  man  ;^i8o  a  year  Rent,  which,  after 
much  ado,  he  accepted,  then  Mr.  Chandler  was  off 
and  she  sayd  it  would  do  very  well  for  them  two, 
but    I    suppose   she    thought    it    too    good    for    me, 


292  TTbe  jfrancis  Xcttcrs  [1777 

however  I  did  not  choose  to  lose  it  and  have  taken 
it,  Mr.  Chandler  does  not  yet  know  it,  I  am  almost 
afraid  to  tell  him,  so  much  for  this,  and  may  God 
Almighty  bless  you  and  may  I  with  our  dear  Children, 
live  to  meet  and  enjoy  each  other  in  this  great  and 
charming  House.  I  will  lay  out  as  little  as  possible 
in  furnishing  it. 

"  London. 

''March  \%th.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler  came  in. 
I  told  them  I  had  at  last  taken  my  favourite  house  in 
Harley  Street  and  hoped  they  would  forgive  my  doing 
so  as  I  could  not  obtain  their  approbation.  They 
looked  grave  and  sayd  very  well,  but  nothing  more. 

"  Went  to  my  new  House  and  am  still  more  pleased, 
fixed  on  Papers  &c.  In  the  evening  was  made  very 
happy  by  a  letter  from  you.  You  really  make  me  vain 
with  the  kind  things  you  write  me,  and  I  almost  fear 
I  shall  be  obliged  to  take  too  much  advantage  of  your 
generosity  in  fitting  up  this  House,  but  I  will  be  as 
saving  as  possible.  My  Mother  has  taken  an  Apart- 
ment in  great  Marylebone  Street  very  near  our  House 
in  Harley  Street. 

"  Monday,  April  1 4M,  1777.  Polly  H olden  is  staying 
with  me.  We  took  our  Morning  Ride,  and  went  to  my 
New  House,  like  it  better  and  better  staid  at  Home  all 
the  Evening  and  alone,  but  we  are  always  entertained 
for  one  of  my  Misses  read  whilst  the  rest  work. 

"  Wednesday,  2'^rd.  Miss  H olden,  Mr.  Godfrey,  his 
brother  and  new  wife  with  three  of  her  Sisters  and 
our  two  girls,  Sally  and  Betsy  and  I,  all  went  in 
the  evening  to  Ranelagh,  my  girls'  surprise  was  very 


1777]  trbe  ifrancis  Xettcrs  293 

great  indeed  at  entering  the  Room  full  of  fine 
company,  Lights  &c.  Every  thing  pleased  and  they 
were  very  happy,  so  was  I  to  see  them  so,  we  came 
home  early. 

"  Thursday,  i^th.  It  happened  very  unluckily  that 
Miss  Gemmel  had  secured  places  for  the  New  Play 
*  Know  your  own  Mind '  a  very  clever  Comedy  and 
much  approved,  for  that  day,  and  we  were  obliged 
to  go  though  tired  with  our  former  Day's  Amusements, 
but  the  Girls'  Pleasure  was  so  extreme  at  the  Play, 
and  after  many  good  Observations  we  had  a  Panto- 
mime which  much  surprised  and  pleased,  the  House 
was  full  and  very  hot  and  I  much  tired,  not  having 
been  at  a  Play  for  four  years  before,  but  I  thought 
it  right  to  attend  my  Girls.  Mr.  Robert  Gemmel  a 
good  humoured  worthy  Man  insisted  on  paying  for 
the  two  Girls,  being  the  first  Play  they  saw,  and 
with  much  ado,   I  consented. 

'•  Saturday,  April  26tk.  Received  your  Letter  dated 
Sep.  21,  1776  full  of  grief  for  poor  Col.  Monson's 
Death.  Your  sick  list  seems  to  be  pretty  full — no 
more  accounts  of  our  dear  Mack.  ...  I  told  Miss 
Gemmel  the  kind  things  you  said  of  her  and  she  is 
much  flattered  by  them  and  hopes  to  increase  in  your 
good  opinion  and  Friendship.  I  observe  your  advice 
about  Humility  and  will  endeavour  to  follow  it. 

"  Mr.  Chandler  is  much  pleased  with  his  Sword, 
and  I  am  all  thankfulness  for  my  Necklace  ;  but  it 
is  too  good.  I  could  wish  you  to  keep  your  money 
and  not  lay  it  out  on  those  fine  things,  I  have  no 
use  for  them,  I  am  miserable  for  my  Brother's  return 
and  I  trust  in  good  Health. 


294 


Ube  jfrancts  Xetters 


[1777 


"  May  19M.  I  fear  I  have  given  Mr.  D'Oyly  some 
great  offence,  though  I  am  not  sensible  in  what 
manner.  What  would  I  give  to  have  my  dearest 
Master  and  Husband  with  me  to  direct  my  ways, 
We  talked  for  two  hours,  I  sighed  and  cryed,  One 
minute  I  am  told  I  don't  dress  my  Children  well 
enough  and  another  that  I  spend  too  much  money ; 
what  can  I  do  ?  Mr.  D'Oyly  and  Mr.  Chandler  have 
I  believe  both  wrote  to  you  to  know  if  I  am  ab- 
solutely to  be  fixed  to  ;^8oo  a  year,  though  you  have 
wrote  to  me  and  these  gentlemen,  for  me  to  have 
unlimited  Credit,  this  they  cannot  understand,  nor 
do  I.  They  will  not,  with  quietness  give  me  any 
more  and  this  will  not  do.  I  will  now  write  you  a 
List  of  my  Expences. 


House  Rent  &  Taxes 

House  keeping  at  £,6,.  4/  a  week 

Philip  School  &  Clothes  . 

Servants  Wages  5  in  number 

Man's  Livery    .... 

Girls  Clothes    .... 

Coals  &  Wine  .... 

Apothecary       .... 

Coach  &  Horses 

Girls  school  and  Masters 

Extraordinaries  for  the  House 

Your  Pensioner. 

My  own  clothes  and  Pocket 


;^202.       8. 

222.  [sic] 

77- 

50. 

12.  12. 

90. 

SO- 
no 
120 

50 

6 
63 

;^lo82.  12.  [sic] 


"This  is  the  least  I  can  do  with,  I  hope  you  won't 
think  it  too  much  ;  but  if  you  do  it  is  proper  I  should 
submit  so  must  then  let  my  House,  lay  down  my 
coach  and  retire  into  the  country. 


1777]  Ube  jFrancis  Xetters  295 

"  Mr.  Chandler  has  been  rather  harsh,  though  I 
believe  well  meant.  I  gave  up  buying  a  gown  which 
was  to  cost  ;^io,  though  I  have  not  had  one  before 
since  you  went.  ...  I  wished  him  and  Mr.  D'Oyly 
to  examine  my  accounts,  which  they  both  declined. 
What  can  I  do  ?  I  meet  with  some  difficulties,  but 
must  swallow  them.  Both  their  ladies  are  very  ad- 
vising, without  knowing  anything  of  the  matter :  but 
they  live  in  plenty  and  may  do  what  they  please 
without  being  called  to  account  :  they  know  nothing 
of  children  or  their  expenses. 

''  Monday,  June  \6tk.  Moved  to  Harley  Street.  I 
and  my  girls  dined  at  my  Mother's.^  The  servants 
came  in  the  evening  after  numberless  Loads  of  Goods. 
We  slept  in  our  new  House  and  found  every  thing 
comfortable,  but  I  got  a  cold  and  cough. 

"  Friday,  20th.  But  very  poorly,  great  weakness 
of  Nerves  and  Spirits,  but  I  write  to  finish  this  Packet 
as  I  am  going  out  of  Town  in  a  few  days.  ...  I 
am  much  fatigued  with  moving  and  as  my  staircase 
is  to  be  painted  in  the  latter  end  of  the  Summer  I 
thought  it  best  to  go  as  soon  as  possible  and  have 
met  with  a  pretty  House,  large  enough  to  hold  us 
all,  with  my  poor  Mother  who  I  could  not  leave. 
It  is  at  Walton,  just  by  the  Duke's  Park  Gate  at 
Oatlands,  and  is  completely  furnished.  I  am  to  have 
it  with  Gardens,  coach-house,  stables  &c.  for  9  months 
for  £/^o  and  I  think  it  very  Cheap,  though  a  large 
sum  of  money,  some  place  I  must  have  had  in  the 
country,  my   Health  is  at  times  so  poorly.  .  .  . 

'  Mrs.  Mackrabie,  as  has  been  mentioned,  died  in  the  autumn  of  this 
year. 


296  Ube  iprancis  Xetters  [1777 

"Walton. 
''June  2\st.     This  place  is  very   delightful.     We 
have  new  milk  and  fresh  Butter  twice  a  Week  and 
a  very  pretty  Garden  well  stocked  with  Flowers  and 
Herbage  and  much  Fruit  in  expectation. 

''July  25M.  I  received  a  Duplicate  Letter  of 
that  dated  Nov.  28.  .  .  .  Your  goodness  is  great 
indeed  about  my  poor  Father  and  Mother.  As  to 
the  first,  he  is  long  since  no  more  and  as  to  my  poor 
Mother  she  is  too  near  the  conclusion  of  her  Fate 
to  acquaint  her  with  your  Generosity  and  I  dare 
not  tell  her  of  the  great  loss  we  have  all  sustained, 
but  I  am  equally  obliged  to  you  for  your  great 
goodness. 

''Aug.  i6th.  Went  with  my  two  Girls  to  dine 
at  Mr.  Holden's  and  had  the  pleasure  to  see 
Captn.  Carr  who  delivered  to  me  the  small  Parcel 
from  you  which  contained  the  beautiful  Pearl  Neck- 
lace. I  thank  you  most  heartily  for  so  fine  a  Present, 
yet  as  I  had  no  letter,  not  so  much  as  a  Word  I 
confess  I  was  much  disappointed.  ...  I  took  the 
necklace  to  Mrs.  Chandler  and  begged  her  to  keep 
it  with  her  jewels.  ...  I  am  frightened  when  I  think 
of  wearing  so  much  money. 

"  Tuesday,  Aug.  26th.  There  are  great  accounts 
of  a  victory  attained  by  our  Army  in  America  and 
I  am  sorry  to  say  your  cousin  poor  Col.  Francis  is 
among  the  list  of  killed.  I  know  you  will  regret 
his  death  as  I  do. 

"Aug.  2'jtk.  I  took  a  ride  on  one  of  my  Coach 
Horses  behind  the  Coachman,  as  I  grudge  paying 
for  a  hired  one.     I  like  it  very  well  and  am  advised 


1777]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xettcrs  297 

to   do   it   for   my   health    and   spirits,    I    want    them 
very  much." 

Mrs,  Francis  writes  sometimes  from  Walton  and 
sometimes  from  Harley  Street. 

"Harley  Street. 

"  I  gave  Sally  Bussy  an  airing  with  me — she  was 
much  pleased  with  it.  She  is  always  good  natured 
and  happy  and  talks  of  you  and  your  youth  with 
extacy. 

"  Monday,  Oct.  2otk.  I  have  a  cold  and  stay  at 
home.  My  two  Girls  are  gone  to  dine  at  Mr. 
Chandlers  and  go  with  them  to  Sunbury  Assembly.  .  .  . 

''Oct.  2 1  St.  Polly  H  olden  called  and  with  her 
Mr.  Prime.  They  all  seem  to  enjoy  the  old  Knight's 
money,  Mr.  Prime  keeps  a  coach,  Chariot  and  Phaeton 
with  four  horses  and  servants  innumerable.  .  .  . 

"  My  two  Girls  are  come  home  delighted  with  their 
Ball  and  the  kind  Hospitality  of  their  good  Friends." 

Sally  and  Betsy  were  then  aged  fourteen  and 
eleven. 


The  following  letter  from  Mr.  Francis  to  his  wife 
was  received  by  her  on  November  7th,   1777: — 

Philip  Francis  to  his  Wife. 

"  Calcutta, 
"March  5,  1777. 

"  My  dearest  Wife, 

"  My  last  was  by  the  London,  which  sailed 
about   a   fortnight   ago.     Since    that    we   have    been 


298 


Ube  jprancis  Xctters 


[1777 


tolerably   quiet   and   expect   to   continue   so   till    the 
arrival  of  advices  from  England. 

"  As  for  myself  I  am  truly  anxious  about  nothing 
but  the  welfare  of  my  family  and  friends.  Political 
events  cannot  reach  or  affect  me.  By  this  or  the 
next  ship  I  shall  make  an  additional  remittance  to 
Mr.  Chandler  of  ;^3,200.  Besides  that  I  am  really 
an  Economist — Fortune  has  taken  extraordinary  care 
of  me,  and  I  am  much  her  humble  Servant.  She  was 
certainly  in  my  debt  if  it  be  considered  how  many 
years  you  and  I  lived  upon  little  or  nothing.  If  there 
were  peace  in  America  all  would  be  well.  By  Capt. 
Carr  I  sent  you  a  pearl  Necklace,  I  should  probably 
have  done  much  better  in  sending  you  the  money 
it  cost,  and  so  left  you  to  please  yourself.  To  make 
up  for  that  mistake  you  will  find  yourself  authorized 
by  the  enclosed  letter  to  Mr.  Godfrey  to  employ  ^500 
in  diamond  earrings  or  any  other  Jewelry  you  may 
think  f^t." 


Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  Continued. 

"  Friday,  Nov.  ']th,  1777.  Your  letter  dated  March 
5th  I  received  safe  by  the  Cumberland,  at  the  same  time 
as  the  other.  I  am  glad  to  find  all  was  quiet  when 
this  came  away  and  hope  it  has  continued  so.  You 
know  I  am  no  Politician.  Your  remittances  came 
safe  and  you  will  believe  were  welcome. 

"  We  are  both  infinitely  indebted  to  Fortune  and 
I  am  grateful  to  her.  As  to  our  former  difificulties 
in  making  both  ends  meet  I  am  always  happy  when 
I  think  of  those  days  for  they  were  full  of  pleasure 
and   satisfaction    in   acting   as  we   should   and  every 


1777]  Ube  jFrancts  Xetters  299 

thing  turned  out  well,  but  notwithstanding  your 
success,  our  absence  from  each  other  and  in  that 
the  loss  of  all  that  is  dear,  is  in  a  great  degree  truly- 
affecting,  but  I  must  always  endeavour  to  bear  it 
as  well  as  I  can. 

"  Nov.  ^th.  A  very  indifferent  day.  Lord  Mayor's 
Day  and  that  is  always  wet. 

"  How  happy  do  your  Letters  make  me,  indeed 
my  dearest  Philip,  if  it  was  possible  I  love  you  more 
than  ever.  ...  I  shall  like  to  wear  your  beautiful 
Present  of  Muslin  if  it  is  not  too  fine ;  the  necklace 
I  have  not  yet  had  absolutely  valued,  but  I  have 
been  told  some  Pearls  were  worth  about  ^^250,  the 
five  Rows — I  think  it  worth  more.  I  have  not  yet 
bespoke  the  Earrings  .  .  .  you  are  too  good  to 
me.  .  .  . 

"  What  you  mention  of  your  remaining  two  years 
longer  in  this  distant  Climate  has  hurt  me  very  much, 
I  am  cast  down  and  disappointed,  but  I  must  bear 
it  and  pray  at  all  times  for  your  success. 

"  Wednesday,  26th.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler  drank 
Tea  with  us,  they  are  charmed  with  my  house,  but 
think  some  of  my  Furniture  not  good  enough,  I  told 
them  I  could  not  afford  any  better  and  as  to  Glasses 
I  must  go  without. 

"  Your  children,  I  thank  God,  are  all  well.  The 
two  eldest  sit  by  me  and  are  two  fine  young  women, 
Harriet  and  Mary  at  school  are  both  well  and  happy 
and  Kitty  a  sweet  little  saucy  Girl.  All  my  old 
servants  are  with  me  and  Tom  the  cat  is  in  perfect 
health  and  mews  his  duty." 


300  TTbe  jf rands  Xettcrs  [1777 

On  the  subject  of  Mrs.  Francis's  expenditure  Mr. 
D'Oyly  wrote  to  Francis  : — 

^^  April  20th,  1777. 

"Mr.  Chandler  and  I  take  as  good  care  of  your 
money  matters  as  we  can ;  but  if  you  choose  that 
your  Family  should  not  spend  more  than  ;^8oo  a  year, 
you  should  not  specify  that  sum  in  our  Letters,  and 
in  theirs  call  upon  them  to  spend  whatever  they 
please,  and  rather  charge  them  to  live  liberally  and 
expensively  in  that  way.  This  you  cannot  but  see 
must  breed  a  little  uneasiness  when  we  try  to  keep 
Expenses  within  what  you  point  out  to  us,  and 
indeed  I  suppose  they  will  now  reach  ^1,200  a  year, 
instead  of  ;^8oo. 

Francis  wrote  to  Mr.  Chandler  from  India, 
referring  to  the  Harley  Street  House  as  follows  : — 

"...  Between  ourselves,  I  intirely  agree  with 
Mr.  D'Oyly  and  yourself  in  all  your  ideas  concerning 
the  House  in  Harley  Street,  and  the  Establishment 
attending  it.  But  why  should  I  tell  her  so,  when  the 
thing  is  done,  and  when  I  know  that  a  serious  word 
from  me  would  break  her  Heart.  Mine  will  not  suffer 
me  to  think  of  it.  I  approve  then  intirely  of  her 
having  ;^  1,200  a  year  from  the  commencement  of  her 
new  establishment  and  ;^200  for  equipment.  In  the 
present  state  of  things,  a  thousand  pounds  more  or 
less  is  of  no  consequence  to  me.  I  myself  pay  very 
near  ;^  1,500  a  year  for  bare  walls  ;  but  it  is  a  palace, 
and  the  first  situation.  By  managing  my  money  at 
interest,  and  living  in  general  with  great  Economy  I 


1777]  XTbc  Francis  Xctters  301 

can  remit  ^6,500  a  year  at  least,  and  I  will  not  stir 
before  I  am  Independent. 

"  I  will  write  to  Mr.  Godfrey  about  Philip,  confining 
myself  to  Politics  with  Mr.  D'Oyly. 

"  My  most    cordial    good  wishes   and   thanks   wait 

on  Mrs.  Chandler. 

"  I  am,  yours,  P.  F." 


In  his  Journal  of  1778  Francis  writes  : — 

''Jan.  2>rdy  1778.  Formal  Supper  at  Impey's  for 
Mrs.  Wheler,  Mrs.  Hastings  sends  a  silly  excuse,  an 
intended  slight  to  Lady  Impey. 

"  26th.  At  night  a  long  conversation  with  Wheler, 
open,  friendly  and  confidential  in  the  highest  degree. 
I  begin  to  love  this  man. 

"  3cM.     Ball  at  my  house. 

''Feb.  2nd.     Masquerade  at  the  Play   House." 


About    this    time    D.    Godfrey    is    writing     from 
England  : — 

D.  Godfrey  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London. 
''ird  Jan.,  1778. 

"  Dear  Francis, 

"  D'Oyly  and  Chandler  are  both  well  and  I 
suppose  write  you.  The  former  you  know  is  Secretary 
to  L**  George  Germain,  Secretary  of  State  for  the 
Colonies,  and  the  lamentable  account  of  our  111  success 
has  made  him  very  low  spirited.  The  Public  news  is 
pretty  near  all  contained  in  the  Newspapers   I   send 


302  ITbe  jf rands  Xctters  [1778 

you  with  this. . . .  The  Savage  barbarity  with  which  this 
war  has  been  carried  on,  points  out  clearly  the  Pious 
Author.  What  think  you  of  General  Burgoine  paying 
10  Dollars  per  Scalp  to  the  Indians  in  his  suite,  men, 
women,  and  children  were  included  in  the  Proscription, 
has  not  the  war  met  the  fate  it  deserved  ?  After  all 
this  we  still  call  the  Americans  cowards,  and  all  the 
Tories,  Jacobites,  Scotch  and  the  Court  believe  it. 
What  we  are  now  to  do  God  knows.  It  seems  we 
can  get  no  more  men  from  Germany,  and  we  have 
none  in  England  or  Ireland.  Some  Scotch  Lords 
have  offered  to  raise  Regiments  at  their  own  Expense. 
Manchester  and  Liverpool  have  offered  to  raise  a 
Regim'.  each  (they  each  raised  one  in  '45  for  the 
Pretender)  which  offers  have  been  graciously  accepted, 
I  suppose  they  will  be  ready  to  embark  for  America 
when  General  Howe  arrives  in  England. 

"  D.  Godfrey. 

"  Your  cousin  Col.  Francis  was  killed  fighting  for 
the  liberties  of  his  country.  The  last  news  is  that 
Mud  Island  is  taken." 

John  Bourke  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London, 
"  14/A  Jan.  1778. 

"  My  dear  Francis, 

"  I  wrote  you  some  time  since  by  the  Packet, 
the  most  material  occurrence  that  has  happened  and 
surely  it  is,  considering  all  circumstances,  one  of  the 
most  extraordinary  that  could  have  happened,  is  the 
Surrender  of  General  Burgoyne  and  his  whole  Armyy 
as    Prisoners    of   War,    to    General   Gates  and   his 


1778]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  303 

American  Ragamuffins.  The  terms  of  the  Capitula'- 
tion  and  the  untoward  incidents  which  produced  this 
disgraceful  submission  you  will  see  in  Gen.  B.'s  letter, 
as  published  in  the  Gazette.  Parliament  meets,  after 
a  pretty  long  Adjournment,  in  the  very  heart  of  the 
Winter,  on  the  20th  Instant.  Burgoyne  is  not  yet 
arrived,  but  is  daily  expected.  People  are  very 
impatient  to  know  what  will  be  his  conduct ;  whether 
he  will  endeavour  to  account  for  his  misfortune  by  a 
confession  of  some  Error  in  the  execution  or  to 
vindicate  himself,  by  showing  the  impracticability  of 
a  plan  he  was  ordered  to  execute,  and  thereby  throw- 
ing the  Reproach  of  the  Miscarriage  upon  the  Authors 
and  Advisers  of  so  romantic  an  Enterprise. 

"  By  this  Discomfiture  in  the  Northern  Provinces, 
you  will  see  that  the  Inhabitants  of  that  Part  are  left 
at  Leisure,  for  the  present,  free  from  the  Horrors  of 
War,  to  cultivate  their  Lands,  and  prepare  themselves 
to  repel  any  Attacks  which  may  be  made  against  them 
hereafter.  The  Case  is  otherwise  in  the  Southern 
provinces,  which  are  now  the  Seat  of  War.  Gen. 
Howe  is  in  Possession  of  Philadelphia,  and  was,  by 
the  last  Accounts,  preparing  to  attack  Washington, 
whose  Army  was  distant  from  him  but  a  few  Miles. 
Upon  the  Event  of  an  Action  if  Washington  inclines 
to  hazard  it,  will  depend  the  fate  of  the  middle 
Colonies.  Should  the  King's  forces  be  so  far 
victorious  as  to  defeat  and  scatter  the  American  Army  ; 
all  the  Countries  on  both  sides  of  the  Delaware  must 
submit ;  Gen.  Howe  will  remain  undisturbed,  in  good 
Winter  Quarters,  plentifully  supplied,  and  ready  with 
troops   restored    from    the    fatigues    of   an   harassing 


304  XCbc  jfrancts  Xetters  [1778 

Campaign,  to  begin  his  further  Operations  early  in 
the  Spring.  If  on  the  Contrary,  from  the  lateness  of 
the  Season,  or  the  uncertain  fate  of  War,  Washington's 
troops  should  remain,  it  is  to  be  apprehended  that 
they  may  make  the  Situation  of  our  Army  so  disagree- 
able as  to  justify  Howe  in  making  from  Phila*.  a 
retreat  as  precipitate  as  he  made  from  Boston. 

"  This  is  a  little  Sketch  of  the  Situation  of  things 
in  America,  from  which  you  will  not  conceive  any 
sanguine  hope  of  the  great  Desideratum — a  reconcilia- 
tion with  the  Colonies.  Unfortunately,  we  have  not 
taken  one  Step,  as  yet,  that  tended  to  regaining  their 
Affections,  or  establishing  a  Confidence.  We  are 
told  now,  indeed,  that  the  Ministry  intend  to  propose 
a  Repeal  of  all  the  Acts  complained  of.  This 
measure,  at  an  earlier  period,  would  have  had  an 
happy  effect,  it  comes  too  late  to  a  people,  irritated, 
I  fear,  to  a  degree  of  irreconcilable  Aversion,  &  forced 
into  a  declaration  of  Independence,  which  virtually 
repeals  all  Acts  respecting  them,  from  the  Act  of 
Navigation,  to  the  last  prohibitory  Act.  I  say  it 
with  a  sigh.  We  are  no  more  One  People.  Those 
whom  we  called  by  every  Name  that  is  endearing, 
Friends,  Relations,  Countrymen,  are,  by  a  fatality  in 
our  Councils,  severed  from  us,  and  driven  to  seek 
protection  &  Alliance  in  the  Arms  of  our  natural 
Enemies.  In  order  to  temper  this  delusive  Concession, 
this  ostensible  mitigation,  with  proper  Severity ;  &  to 
preserve  the  Dignity,  the  fatal  Dignity  of  this 
Country,  it  is  said  that  the  proposed  Repeal  is  to  be 
accompanied  with  an  Act,  declaring  the  Supremacy 
of  this  Country  over  N.  Amer. — alas,  alas  !    I  think 


1778]  XTbe  franciB  Xettcrs  30s 

there   exists  an  Act  which  declares  the   Kingdom  of 
France  an  Apendage  upon  the  Crown  of  England. 

"  Parliament  met  two  days  ago  ;  but  the  Business 
of  America  is  deferred  until  the  2nd  of  next  month, 
when  the  State  of  the  Nation  will  be  laid  before 
them. 

"  Gen.  Howe  went  out  from  Philad*.  to  endeavour 
to  draw  Washington  from  his  camp,  to  an  engage- 
ment. After  3  days  spent  in  skirmishing  between  the 
outposts,  he  returned  and  has  put  his  Army  into 
Winter  Quarters.     Thus  has  ended  this  campaign. 

"  Affectionately  yours, 

"John  Bourke." 

John  Bourke  to  Philip  Francis. 

"  London, 
"  17  Afay,  1778. 

"  I  yesterday  rec'd  your  Letter  of  the  21st  of 
Nov*"  last.  .  .  . 

"  You  will  have  heard  that  Will  Burke  had  quitted 
India.  He  arrived  among  us,  to  our  great  Joy,  a 
few  days  ago.  What  he  has  done  I  cannot  inform 
you ;  nor  can  you  want,  on  this  head,  any  information 
from  me.  Neither  he  or  his  friends  can  ever  forget 
your  kindness. 

"  I  cannot  but  admire  the  Serenity  of  Temper 
which  you  show,  in  Place,  without  power,  thwarted, 
opposed  and  proscribed,  as  you  justly  observe,  like 
an  English  Patriot.  /  marvel  much  where  the  Gentle- 
man found  this  Calmness,  but  certain  it  is  that  you 
are  not  more  applauded  for  your  Abilities  and 
Judgment  than  for  your  Moderation  and  Acquiescence, 

20 


3o6  Ubc  ifrancis  Xetters  [1778 

by  which  you  have  prevented  an  entire  distraction 
in  the  Councils,  and  averted  the  Ruin  of  the 
Company's  Affairs.  .  .  .  Lord  Chatham's  dead,  that 
clarum  &  venerabile  Nomen  Gentibus  is  no  more. 
Those  who  rejected  his  Councils  when  living,  now 
are  ready  to  give  his  Remains  all  funeral  honours, 
at  the  Public  expense  and  help  to  bury  whom  they 
helped  to  starve. 

"  J.  B." 

On  February  4th,  1778,  P.  Francis  had  written 
to  D.  Godfrey  : — 

"  I  am  now,  I  think  in  the  road  to  the  Government 
of  Bengal  which  I  believe  is  the  first  situation  in  the 
World,  attainable  by  a  subject.  I  will  not  baulk  my 
future ;  if  that  hope  be  disappointed  I  shall  assuredly 
not  stay  here  beyond  the  expiration  of  the  present 
commission  ;  if  it  succeeds  you  will  probably  not  see 
me  in  less  than  four  years  from  this  time. 

"  But  we  shall  still  be  young  my  Friend,  with  the 
means  and  powers  of  enjoyment." 

In  his  Journal  for  December  nth  of  the  same 
year  is  the  following  entry  : — 

"  Major  Baggs  arrived  in  the  evening — advice  from 
England,  vouched  by  him  in  the  highest  degree 
flattering  to  me,  and  full  of  hopes. 

"  But  alas !  I  have  been  trained  in  the  School 
of  disappointment." 

And  disappointed  Francis  was  fated  to  be  in 
his  ambition   to   rule    in    India.      The   estimation    in 


i78o]  TCbe  francie  Xetters  307 

which  he  was  held  by  those  in  power  at  home,  of 
which  he  had  received  assurance,  produced  no  action 
in  his  favour :  his  position  remained  the  same,  and 
Hastings  was  not  recalled.     The  years  dragged  on. 

On  March  2nd,   1780,  Francis  wrote  to  his  friend 
D.  Godfrey : — 


"  My  dear  Godfrey, 


"  Calcutta, 
^'' 2nd  March,  1780. 


"  I  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  the 
Purchase  of  Boroughs.  It  is  a  business  I  neither 
like  nor  understand  ;  besides  which,  I  think  the  time 
is  approaching  when  even  that  sort  of  commodity 
will  not  be  saleable.  Before  I  return,  I  fear  there 
will  be  a  shorter  method  of  conducting  public  affairs. 
Look  to  it.  The  British  Empire  in  India  is  tottering 
— another  year,  on  the  present  system,  will  bring  it 
to  the  ground.  But  what  is  the  loss  or  Ruin  of 
foreign  Acquisitions,  when  England  itself  is  threatened 
with  Invasion,  Conquest,  and  Dissolution  !  .  .  .  The 
dreadful  aspect  of  our  affairs  in  this  country  has 
forced  me  to  yield  to  a  temporary  Pacification  with 
Mr.  Hastings,  on  Public  Ground,  and  no  other. 
Since  it  has  pleased  the  Demon,  who  presides  over 
England  to  continue  and  confirm  Mr.  Hastings  and 
Mr.  Barwell  in  possession  of  Absolute  Power  over  this 
Part  of  the  Empire,  nothing  was  left  for  me  but  to 
try,  if  possible,  to  save  it  from  instant  destruction, 
or  at  least  to  delay  that  ultimate  ruin,  of  which  the 
Foundation  is  laid,  and  which  perhaps  no  measures 
possible  for  me  now  to  take  can  prevent.     This,   I 


3o8  xrbc  ifrancis  Xetters  [1780 

most  solemnly  avow  to  you,  is  the  sole  motive  of 
my  conduct,  unmixed  with  any  personal  Interest, 
direct  or  indirect,  for  myself  or  anybody  else,  or  any 
view  to  it  immediate  or  remote.  Even  in  this 
Infernal  Region,  my  character  is  so  well  established, 
and  my  Principles  so  well  known,  that,  on  this 
occasion  Justice  is  universally  done  to  my  conduct. 
In  England,  it  is  possible  that  other  motives  may 
be  imputed  to  me ;  I  know  what  the  spirit  of 
Party  is  capable  of,  and  how  securely  it  acts  against 
men  so  far  removed  from  the  public  judgment  of  the 
nation  as  I  am.  I  know  the  Power  it  possesses,  at 
this  distance  from  Detection,  of  colouring  or  creating 
facts  to  answer  any  malignant  purpose  ;  but  I  stand 
on  a  Rock,  and  bid  Defiance  to  the  storm.  .  .  . 

"  Yours,  ever  yours, 

"P.  Francis." 


These  strained  relations  with  the  Governor-General 
led  up  to  the  final  rupture  between  him  and  Francis, 
when  their  long  antagonism  culminated  in  a  personal 
quarrel.  For  the  history  of  this  event  we  refer  to 
Francis's  Journal  of  August,  1780: — 

Philip  Francis's  Journal. 

''Aug.  15M,  1780.  Rev[enue]  Board.  When  it 
[the  Council]  was  over  I  took  him  [Hastings]  into  a 
private  room  and  read  to  him  the  following  words. 
'  Mr.  Hastings,  I  am  preparing  a  formal  answer  to  the 
paper  you  sent  to  me  last  night.  As  soon  as  it  can 
be  finished  I  shall  lay  it  before  you  ;  but  you  must  be 


i78o]  Ube  If  rands  Xetters  309 

sensible,  sir,  that  no  answer  I  can  give  to  the  Matter 
of  that  Paper  can  be  adequate  to  the  Dishonour 
done  me  by  the  Terms  you  have  made  use  of. 
You  have  left  me  no  alternative  but  to  demand 
personal  satisfaction  of  you  for  the  affronts  you 
have  offered  me.' 

"  As  soon  as  I  had  read  the  preceding  words  to 
Mr.  Hastings,  he  said  he  expected  the  demand,  and 
was  ready  to  answer  it.  We  then  agreed  to  meet  on 
the  morning  of  Thursday  the  1 7th.  I  told  him  that 
I  should  desire  Colonel  Watson  our  chief  Ingenier  to 
attend  me. 

"  Mention  the  affair  to  Watson,  who  happened  to 
dine  with  me  to-day — he  agrees  to  provide  Pistols, 
in  order  to  prevent  suspicion. 

"  itth.  Employed  in  settling  my  affairs,  burning 
Papers  &c.,  in  case  of  the  worst.  Dull  work.  This 
evening  Mr.  Hastings  orders  his  minute  to  be 
recorded. 

"  \']th.  Arrive  at  the  Ground  near  Belvedere, 
near  an  hour  before  Mr.  H.,  who  comes  about  6  with 
Col.  Pearce,  Watson  marks  out  a  distance  of  14 
common  paces.  The  same  he  said,  at  which  Mr.  Fox 
and  Mr.  Adam  stood.  My  pistol  missing  fire,  I 
changed  it.  We  then  fired  together,  and  I  was 
wounded  and  fell.  I  thought  my  backbone  was  broke, 
of  course  that  I  could  not  survive  it.  After  the  first 
confusion  had  subsided,  and  after  I  had  suffered  great 
inconvenience  from  being  carried  to  the  wrong  place, 
I  was  at  last  conveyed  to  Major  Tolley's  House  on  a 
bed.  The  surgeons  arrived  in  about  an  hour  and 
a   half  from    the  time   I   was  wounded,  and   cut  out 


310  Ube  iFrancte  Xetters  [1780 

the  Ball  and  bled  me  twice  in  the  course  of  the 
Day.  Mr.  Hastings  sends  to  know  when  he  may 
visit  me. 

"  i2)th.  These  two  days  the  pain  I  suffered  was 
very  considerable. 

"  19/^.  Desire  Col.  Watson  to  tell  Mr.  Hastings 
as  civilly  as  possible  that  I  am  forced  to  decline 
his  visit. 

"  Aug.  2\th.     Return  to  Calcutta. 

''Sept.  iitk.  I  pay  Sir  E.  Coote  a  visit.  He 
says  he  would  have  prevented  this  unfortunate  accident 
if  he  had  been  here.  I  told  him  he  might  have 
done  so  perhaps  if  he  had  been  here  six  months 
ago,  but  that  at  the  time  it  happened  it  was  im- 
possible. Attend  Council.  Great  civility  between 
H.  and  me. 

''Sept.  2^th.  Visit  Mr.  Wheler  in  the  evening  at 
the  Gardens.  Find  his  house  full  of  the  Government 
people  and  perceive  plainly  from  his  own  discourse 
that  H.  and  he  are  not  in  a  state  of  mortal  enmity. 
.  .  .  They  are  often  closeted  together  and  he  tells 
me  that  H.  has  consulted  him  on  several  points. 

"  Oct.  ()th.  At  night  communicate  my  letter  to 
the  Court  of  Directors  to  Mr.  Wheler,  who  approves 
of  it,  and  of  the  conduct  I  mean  to  pursue.  I  tell 
him  that  no  body  has  a  claim  on  me  but  himself; 
that  if  he  claims  of  me  to  stay,  I  will  give  it  due  and 
serious  consideration.  But  that  I  can  only  stay  on 
the  Principle  of  our  agreeing  first  to  attack  Hastings 
Horse  and  foot,  throwing  away  the  Scabbard  and 
neither  to  give,  or  take  quarter.  He  sees  the  ob- 
jections to  such  a  Plan,  and  shews  no  disposition  to 


1780]  XTbe  jfrancis  Xetters  311 

undertake  it ;  at  the  same  time,  he  admits  that  it  is 
not  possible  for  me,  or  useful  in  any  sense,  to  stay 
upon  any  other.  The  offer  I  make  him  leaves  it  with 
him  to  determine  me  and  obviates  all  cause  of  com- 
plaint on  his  part.  In  his  Heart  I  am  sure,  there  is 
nothing  he  wishes  for  more  than  my  Departure.  It 
relieves  him  at  once  from  Contest,  and  a  thousand 
difficulties. 

"  Oct.  \Zth.  News  from  Vizagapatam  of  a  mutiny 
of  the  Sepoys  there,  on  being  ordered  to  embark  for 
Madras,  they  fired  on  their  Officers  and  killed  four 
or  five,  plundered  the  factory  and  marched  off  after 
committing  many  acts  of  barbarity.  This  is  a  most 
alarming  event,  and  without  example.  It  shews  us 
on  what  a  precarious  footing  we  stand." 

Philip  Francis's  life  in  India  had,  upon  the  whole, 
been  a  disappointing  one ;  even  as  early  as  in  the  year 
1775,  only  two  years  after  his  arrival,  he  wrote  to  Mr. 
D'Oyly  :  "  I  am  unable  to  express  to  you  how  weary 
I  am  of  my  situation."  And  again  :  "I  shall  quit 
Bengal  with  no  other  regret  than  that  it  was  not  in 
my  Power  while  I  was  sure  of  the  means  to  save 
so  many  wretched  people  from  destruction."  He 
was  never  able  to  carry  out  the  policy  which  he 
approved,  and  his  personal  ambitions  remained  un- 
fulfilled. 

His  biographer  speaks  much  of  his  extraordinary 
industry,  and  draws  attention  to  the  fact  of  his  having 
spent  all  his  time  in  or  near  Calcutta.  Health  resorts 
were  not  developed  then  as  they  are  now,  so  that  the 
health  of  officials  was  very  severely  tried.     Francis 


312  trbe  ifrancis  Xctters  [1780 

kept   his  health,  though,   as  we   have   seen,   he    was 
subject  to  painful  fits  of  depression  of  spirits. 

Francis,  having  finally  decided  to  give  up  his  post 
and  return  to  England,  writes  to  Col.  Ironside  at 
Chandernagore  :— 

"  November  ^ih,  1780. 

'*  Dear  Sir, 

"  I  conclude  you  will  have  heard  of  my 
Resolution  to  return  to  England  in  the  course  of  this 
Season.  It  was  formed  long  ago  and  communicated 
to  my  Friends  in  all  my  letters  by  the  last  ships. 
Nothing  could  alter  it,  but  an  event,  which  I  had 
reason  enough  to  expect,  but  which  I  will  now  wait  for 
no  longer.  The  Afifair  is  over,  and  I  believe,  in  every 
sense.  The  mischiefs  which  surround  us,  might  have 
been  prevented  ;  but  most  seriously  I  doubt  whether 
they  admit  of  a  Remedy.  De  Republica  actum  est. 
Harwood,  Tilghman  and  I  have  engaged  a  Dutch  ship 
to  carry  us  to  Amsterdam,  from  whence  we  must  find 
our  way  Home  as  well  as  we  can.  I  flatter  myself  that 
Mrs.  Ironside  and  you  will  have  it  in  your  thoughts  to 
follow  us,  as  soon  as  circumstances  will  permit.  I 
wish  to  forget  Bengal  and  all  that  belongs  to  it,  but  I 
leave  some  People  behind  me  whom  I  must  always 
remember  with  Regard.  The  Departure  of  the  Ship 
is  fixed  for  the  22nd  of  this  month.  I  must  therefore 
leave  Calcutta  about  the  19th  but  I  shall  write  to  you 
again.  Colonel  Upton  goes  Home  in  the  Walpole. 
"  I  am, 

"  Dear  Sir,  Your  most  obt. 

"  &  faithful  humbl.  Servt. 

"  P.  F." 


1780]  zbc  jfrancts  Xetters  313 

Philip  Francis's  Journal. 

"  JVov.  y^A,  1780.  Discover  at  last  that  it  is 
impossible  to  go  in  a  Dutch  ship,  so  resolve  to  take 
my  passage  in  the  I^ox  Capt.   Blackburne." 

Philip  Francis  to  D.  Godfrey. 

"  Calcutta, 
"  17  Nov.,  1780. 

"  My  dear  Godfrey, 

"If  this  letter  should  reach  you  before  I 
do,  be  so  good  as  to  take  the  trouble  of  concluding 
that  I  am  not  far  off.  After  all,  Mr.  Tilghman  and 
I  have  taken  our  passage  on  board  the  F'ox  Indiaman, 
and  expect  to  leave  Calcutta  in  the  course  of  ten 
Days,  and  to  sail  about  the  beginning  of  next  month. 
Barring  accidents  or  unforeseen  Delays,  we  ought  to 
be  in  England  early  in  June ;  with  tolerable  luck  a 
month  sooner.  Keep  a  good  look  out,  and  beware 
how  you  stir  out  of  Town.  I  have  not  tasted  Bur- 
gundy these  7  years.  If  you  have  any  worth  drinking 
in  the  best  Company,  you  will  naturally  keep  it  for 
us.  I  have  got  six  Pieces  of  long  cloth  for  you  ; — 
pray  Heaven  it  be  not  seized.  Our  Captain's  name 
is  Blackburne.  Perhaps  you  may  know  the  Wight. 
Give  notice  hereof  to  D'Oyly,  Bourke  etc.  .  . 

"  Adieu, 

<<  p    p  «> 

Philip  Francis  to  Mrs.  Francis. 

"  Calcutta, 
"17  Nov.,  1780. 

"  My  dearest  Mrs.   Francis, 

"  I   think   it  not  unlikely   that   I    may  have 
the  Happiness  of  seeing  you  before  you  receive  this 


314  Ubc  francis  Xetters  [1780 

letter,  or  very  soon  after.  Compose  your  spirits 
accordingly.  Mr.  Broughton,  who  goes  to  Europe 
in  the  Dutch  Ship,  by  which  I  now  write,  will  pay 
you  a  visit,  and  tell  you  more,  if  I  should  not  be 
arrived  before  him.  This  House  is  all  in  a  flutter, 
as  we  are  preparing  to  leave  it  in  the  course  of  ten 
days.     I  hope  for  ever.     Yours  for  the  same  Period, 

"  P.  Francis." 

The  luck  of  a  speedy  passage  home  was  not  vouch- 
safed to  the  travellers.  Their  ship  arrived  at  St. 
Helena  in  March,  but  had  to  remain  there  four  months, 
until  a  convoy  arrived  to  take  it  in  charge.  During 
this     waiting-time     Francis     wrote     to    a    friend    in 

Calcutta : — 

"St.  Helena, 
''July  26th,  1781. 

"  I  leave  it  to  yourself  to  judge,  for  indeed  I   am 

not   very   well    able   to    express,    how    tedious    and 

weary   this    long  Confinement  at    such   a   time,  and 

in  such  a  place  too  must  have  been  to  me.      Many 

who    pretend    to   more    patience   are,    I    believe,    as 

weary  of  it  as  I   am." 

Francis  afterwards  christened  the  Patron  Saint 
of  St.  Helena  "  Ennui."  At  last  he  was  able  to 
write  in  his  Journal : — 

"  Oct.  18/^,  1 78 1.  Got  aboard  a  Cutter  at  last,  with 
Mr.  Tilghman  at  midnight,  about  10  miles  west  of 
Dungeness,  Wind  fair  and  very  fresh. 

"  19M.  At  four  o'clock  in  the  morning,  landed 
at  Dover,  the  same  day,  on  which  I  landed  at  Calcutta 


lysi]  Ube  ifrancis  Xetters  315 

in  1774.     Went  to  bed  for  a  few  hours  .  .  .  arrived 
in   Harley  Street  at   10  at  night." 


Here  we  turn  back  to  Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  during 
the  years  between  January,  1778,  and  October,  1781. 
Her  record  here  and  there  touches  the  other  record 
that  was  being  written  in  India  at  the  same  time  : — 

"  Harley  Street. 
''Jan.    i2tk,    1778.      The    Doctor    prescribes    salt 
water  bathing  for  Sally  in  May  next. 

"  Thursday,  i$tk.  At  last  Capt.  Waghorne  has  sent 
me  the  two  pieces  of  Silver  Muslin  and  I  payd  duty 
for  them  £^.  4.  They  are  most  extremely  beautiful, 
the  pattern  most  elegant  and  muslin  very  fine.  Indeed 
to  say  what  I  think  ought  to  be  sayd  in  return  for 
it  to  you,  would  be  a  volume,  but  your  constant 
generosity  makes  me  overcome  with  obligation 
and   I   don't  know  what  to  say. 

"  Saturday,  Jan.  2\tk.  This  morning  I  called  on 
Mrs.  Chandler  and  she  went  with  me  to  see  some 
Diamond  Earrings,  as  you  had  been  so  good,  I  thought 
it  right  not  to  overlook  your  kindness  and  I  have,  by 
Mrs.  Chandler's  advice,  bespoke  a  pair  of  fine  ones. 

"  Feb.  idfth.  We  took  a  ride.  Mrs.  Chandler  is  not 
well,  she  has  a  cold  and  a  little  fever,  even  she  must 
be  ill  sometimes,  she  has  often  told  me  they  have 
no  illness  at  their  House,  but  you  see  she  is  mistaken, 


3i6  XTbc  grands  Xcttcrs  [1778 

everyone  must  have  their  share.  We  have  a  large 
one,  but  patience  is  all  we  can  hope  to  carry  us 
thro'.     Sally  was  a  good  deal  tired  with  her  Ride. 

"  Sunday,  i$th.  I  am  made  happy  by  your  telling 
me  you  are  in  Health.  Your  concern  on  account  of 
America  I  wonder  not  at,  Time  I  hope  will  put  a 
favourable  conclusion  to  this  melancholy  business.  I 
am  very  happy  to  find  you  can  laugh  when  things 
go  contrary  with  your  side  ...  I  don't  hear  anything 
ever  said  to  your  disadvantage  which  makes  me  easie 
but  any  change  that  would  bring  you  to  England  must 
most  certainly  make  me  compleatly  happy. 

"  The  excessive  Heat  you  speak  of  must  be  terrible, 
what  must  have  become  of  me  in  that  state  of  Re- 
laxation, though  it  was  my  most  eager  wish  to  go 
with  you  I  certainly  enjoyed  two  pleasures  in  giving 
it  up,  the  first  in  following  your  advice,  and  the  other 
in  avoiding  those  dreadful  sufferings  to  a  weak  nervous 
constitution. 

''Sunday,  Feb.  i^th.  Mr.  D'Oyly  has  been  here 
this  evening,  he  has  not  a  word  to  write  or  tell  you 
with  respect  to  India,  as  to  us  here  he  says  we  are 
all  in  the  greatest  confusion  and  as  to  America  I  fear 
in  a  bad  way  ;  on  Tuesday  is  expected,  he  says,  to  be 
the  greatest  meeting  at  the  House  ever  known,  and 
things  done  there  that  never  was  done  before  in  this 
Kingdom.  He  seems  to  think  those  who  are  far  off" 
are  best,  he  seems  full  of  business  and  very  uneasie 
tho'  he  is  out  of  office. 


1778]  tn>c  If  rands  Xettcrs  317 

"  Thursday,  Feb.  igtk.  This  is  a  great  Festivity 
and  double  Holiday.  'Tis  Harriet's  Birthday,  she  is 
12  years  old  and  a  fine,  sweet  girl,  she  has  a  sweet 
voice  and  will  sing  prettily.  Betsey  has  fetched  her 
from  school  to  spend  a  few  days.  And  what  do  you 
think  of  a  Wedding  !  Collins  is  marryed  today  to 
Mr.  Brittain  her  old  sweetheart,  at  last  she  has  com- 
pleated  it.  My  girls  all  begged  she  would  keep  her 
wedding  here,  so  I  have  given  the  Bride  and  Bride- 
groom a  dinner,  Betsey  and  Harriet  were  Bridesmaids 
and  went  to  church  with  the  couple,  Philip  came  to 
dinner,  to  keep  Mr.  Brittain  company  and  behaved 
well — we  spent  an  agreeable  day.  He  is  a  very 
modest,  decent,  well  bred  young  man.  Collins  has 
made  an  excellent  choice. 

"  Wednesday,  25M.  In  the  evening  Major  Baggsand 
his  brother  came  and  sat  an  hour.  He  is  just  come 
home  from  Paris  and  looks  the  French  Marquis  all 
over,  very  well  in  health  and  spirits  and  as  fine  as 
a  lord,  I  wish  he  would  bestow  something  handsome 
on  poor  Stephen  [the  Rev.  S.  Baggs,  his  brother]. 

''Feb.  22)tk.  Many  happy  returns  I  pray  God  to 
you.  This  day  sixteen  years  I  was  made  the  happiest 
woman  in  your  making  me  your  wife,  as  to  merit  I 
claim  none  but  as  to  affection  I  have  had  a  large 
share  for  you  and  have  been  always  sensible  of  my 
own   Happiness. 

''March  \oth.  Dr.  Grant  has  been  here,  he  thinks 
it  absolutely  necessary  for  me  to  carry  Sally  to 
Bristol  for  the  removal  of  her  cough,  she  is  really 
very  ill,  tho'  everybody  tells  me  not  in  danger. 


3i8  XTbe  jpranciB  Xetters  [1778 

'•  Sunday,  i$th.  Mrs.  and  Miss  Chitty  dined  here 
to-day,  Mrs.  Chitty  talks  of  you  till  she  cryes,  Philip 
was  here  and  sang  several  songs,  she  was  charmed. 
I  sang  and  she  cryed  at  the  thoughts  of  how  happy 
we  had  all  been  together  some  years  ago  when  I  used 
to  sing  *  Would  you  gain  the  tender  creature.* 

"  Tuesday,  \^th.  A  fine  morning  and  we  [Mrs. 
Francis,  her  maid,  and  Sally  and  Betsy]  were  all  ready 
soon  after  nine  o'clock  and  set  off  in  our  own  coach  and 
pair  and  two  hack  horses  and  Postilion  and  a  saddle 
horse  for  John.  We  changed  Horses  at  Hounslow, 
and  dined  at  Salt  Hill,   we  slept  at  Reading. 

"  \Zth.  Another  good  day,  after  breakfast  we  set  out 
for  Speenham  hill  where  we  dined,  slept  at  Marlborough. 

"  \<^th.  A  fine  morning,  dined  at  Devizes  and  at  four 
o'clock  arrived  safe  at  the  Bear,  Bath.  Mr.  Philpott 
enquired  much  after  you.  We  had  coffee  and  I  took 
the  Girls  to  show  them  the  Pump  Room,  Parades,  &c. 

"  2Qth.  We  all  had  a  pretty  good  night,  and  after 
breakfast  paid  our  bill  and  set  out  for  Bristol. 

"  Bristol. 

''March  2'i^rd.  We  have  no  company  here,  only 
a  few  poor  unhappy  invalids,  some  indeed  mere 
objects — but  we  must  all  hope  for  amendment. 

"  Sally  drinks  the  water  daily,  we  go  to  the  Pump 
Room  and  take  a  ride  when  fine.  I  have  hyred  a 
Forte  Piano  and  we  all  play  and  sometimes  read,  so 
our  day  passes  very  well  without  any  change. 

"  April  \th.  Sally  will  not  drink  any  more  of  the 
water   here.      Our    Doctor  here    thinks    Bath   might 


1778]  TTbe  ifrancts  Xctters  319 

agree  with  us  all.  We  ride  every  day  and  walk  a 
little,  this  is  all  we  do  here,  it  is  a  melancholy  place, 
we  don't  know  a  creature,  so  you  may  be  sure  we 
have  not  much  society. 

"  Monday,  6tk.  Received  a  letter  from  Dr.  Grant, 
he  approves  much  of  our  going  to  Bath  and  advises 
me  to  drink  the  Waters. 

"  Wednesday,  Zth.  A  charming  morning,  we  set  out 
about  eleven  o'clock  and  had  a  pleasant  journey  to 
Bath  where  we  arrived  soon  after  two.  Have  found 
good  lodgings  in  Milsom  Street.  .  .  . 

"  Wednesday,  \^th.  .  .  .  You  have  been  so  good  to 
me  in  sending  me  so  many  things  that  I  hardly  know 
how  to  ask  for  more,  but  I  should  be  glad  if  you 
could  send  me  some  India  Mangoes. 

"  Thursday,  iT^rd.  Dr.  Macnamara  called  and  staid 
a  little.  I  am  persuaded  to  take  Sally  this  evening 
to  the  undress  ball,  to  try  what  amusement  will  do. 
We  went  and  she  bore  it  very  well ;  I  was  soon  tired, 
we  came  home  by  Ten  o'clock. 

"  Monday,  2'jth.  Mr.  Macnamara  called  and  gave  us 
Tickets  for  the  Ball  and  engaged  Betsey  to  dance  with 
him,  accordingly  we  went — we  all  came  home  soon." 

Sally  and  Betsey  were  fifteen  and  fourteen  at  this 
time. 

"  Tuesday,  May  ^th,  1778.  Had  a  letter  from  Mrs. 
Chandler.  Philip  has  been  with  them  at  Sunbury 
for  a  few  days.  She  says  he  is  the  most  desirable 
child  in  the  world,  everything  he  says  or  does  is 
extraordinary,  she  says  you  would  have  been  delighted 
to  have  heard  the  debates  between  Mr.  Chandler  and 


320  TTbe  grands  Xetters  [1778 

him  which  generally  ended  in  '  Pray  sir,  remember 
I  am  but  a  boy,'  then  a  jump,  a  hug  and  a  kiss. 

"  Sunday,  loth.  Sally  rode  ten  miles  on  horseback 
before  breakfast,  she  was  much  tired,  but  we  all 
drank  Tea  with  Mrs.  Ducarel  in  the  afternoon.  .  .  . 

"  Wednesday,  2otk.  Set  off  to  return  to  London, 
and  at  nine  o'clock  on  Thursday  evening  arrived  in 
Harley  Street. 

''Friday.,  22nd.  Dr.  Grant  called  and  says  we 
must  go  to  the  sea. 

"  Saturday,  22,rd.  We  all  drank  tea  by  invitation 
at  Lady  Clavering's,  saw  only  Miss  Charlotte  who  is 
very  fat  and  Miss  Caroline  who  is  much  grown,  she 
seems  haughty  though  very  agreeable.  There  was 
much  company  came  in.  Lady  Clavering  seems  very 
fond  of  us  all,  Philip,  by  her  desire,  went  with  us." 

The  family  of  Sir  J.  Clavering  had  returned  from 
India  to  England  after  his  death  in  August,   1777. 

"  Friday,  2(^tk.  Mr.  Godfrey  called,  he  told  me 
your  letter  to  him  mentions  moving  Philip  to  Harrow 
School.  You  never  told  me,  however  I  desired  him 
to  call  on  Mr.  Ribouville  and  let  him  know,  also  to 
speak  to  Mr.  Stephen  Baggs  about  his  being  Tutor. 
Poor  Ribouville,  his  grief  will  be  great,  but  he  must 
bear  it,  we  all  bear  something." 


The  following,  from  Philip  Francis  to  D.  Godfrey,  was 
written  at  a  much  earlier  date,  September  i6th,  1 776  : — 

"  I  approve  much  of  your  idea  of  Harrow  for  my 
son.     I  hear  a  great  account  of  the  Master,  but  that 


1776]  Ubc  ftmcis  Xettcrs  3*1 

his  school  and  houses  are  too  much  crowded.  I 
protest  against  Westminster  or  Eton.  What  I  wish 
is  that  when  you  have  determined  upon  the  pubHc 
school,  he  and  young  Clive  might  go  together  and 
have  a  tutor  with  them.  If  a  proper  man  can  be 
found,   I  shall  not  regard  the  expense. 

"  Wherever  he  goes,  I  insist  on  his  constantly  lying 
alone.  His  learning  may  take  its  fate.  He  will 
always  have  enough  for  an  honest  man.  But  his 
health  and  morals  require  all  our  care.  ... 

"  I  do  not  myself  see  the  necessity  of  removing  him 
from  Ribouville  before  the  age  of  ten." 

Philip  went  to  Harrow  in  January,  1779. 


Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  Continued. 

^^  June  2nd.  At  last  the  Box  of  Baubles  are  arrived 
and  Betsey  is  charmed  with  the  surpeach  and  flatters 
herself  it  is  diamond,  we  are  to  have  it  new  set  if 
it  is  worth.  Sally  has  chosen  the  Pin  and  ring  with 
Diamonds.  Philip  has  the  Seal  ring  and  the  seal 
of  my  dear  Macks,  and  Harriet  is  to  have  the  ring 
set  with  Hair.  We  are  all  pleased  with  the  fine 
things. 

"  I  am  glad  you  approve  my  new  house.  It  is  at 
the  upper  end  of  Harley  Street  and  a  good  stone 
entrance,  and  staircase,  iron  rails  &c.  There  is  a  good 
Hall  and  Entrance,  small  parlour  to  the  street  and  a 
large  dining  room  thirty  by  twenty-two  feet  backwards 
and  thirteen  feet  high.  A  good  staircase  and 
elegantly  finished,  upstairs  front  room  32  feet  by  22 

21 


322  ubc  fvanciQ  Xetters  [1778 

and  15  feet'ihigh  and  painted  ceiling — back  Drawing- 
room  30  by  20  feet  and  1 5  feet  high  and  painted  and 
stoco  ceiling,  fine  marble  chimney  pieces,  upstairs  4 
good  bedchambers  and  one  small  and  about  4  excellent 
garrets.  We  have  a  little  garden  2  coach  houses 
and  stabling  for  5  horses  and  servants'  rooms  with 
every  convenience  in  the  lower  part  of  the  House, 
as  Kitchen,  Scullery,  Wash-house,  Servants'  hall, 
Housekeeper's  room,  Butler's  pantry.  Cellars  &c.,  &c. 

"  Your  allowance  to  me  is  noble,  but  I  fear  my 
expenses  may  even  exceed  that.  I  asked  you  for 
^200  to  furnish  my  house,  but  it  was  too  little  and 
showed  my  ignorance  in  asking.  I  have  now  paid 
within  a  trifle  of  ;^5CX)  and  yet  my  best  room  has 
no  glasses.  ...  If  ever  I  have  the  happiness  to  see 
you  here,  you  will  then  be  a  judge  how  I  have  laid 
out  the  money. 

^'  June  ^tk.  Tomorrow  afternoon  I  and  my  girls 
and  Collins  set  off  for  Margate. 

"  Margate. 

**  Sunday,  i/^tk.  This  place  has  very  little  company 
in  it  but  much  is  every  day  expected  and  some 
people  of  fashion.  You  know  Margate  don't  in 
general  abound  in  people  of  quality. 

"  Sunday,  July  19/^.  Nothing  new.  How  often 
do  I  look  at  the  sea,  it  makes  my  heart  ache,  it 
separates  me  from  all  I  hold  dear.  Your  girls  I 
trust  will  turn  out  as  you  could  wish  them.  They 
read  a  great  deal  and  no  novels,  they  never  enter 
our  Apartments,  nothing  but  what  is  instructive. 
Sally  has  a  fine  memory,  I  hope  you  will  think  her 
head  well  filled  and  much  the  better  of  her  reading. 


1778]  XTbe  ifrancfs  Xetters  323 

She  reads  voraciously.  Betsey  is  very  clever,  but 
not  in  the  same  way.  I  flatter  myself  you  will  be 
pleased  with  them  all." 

Mrs.  Francis  and  her  family  leave  Margate  and 
arrive  in   Harley  Street  on  July  29th,   1778. 

''Aug.  ytk.  Your  letter  dated  Jan.  5th  1778  which 
came  by  the  Ceres  had  a  shorter  passage  than  that 
by  land. 

"  Thank  you  for  your  Ball  Ticket,  it  is  a  very 
pretty  one.  I  am  glad  the  masquerade  turned  out 
so  well  and  agreeable,  I  hope  the  other  will  prove 
as  great  an  entertainment,  you  are  very  good  in  being 
so  particular  in  your  description  of  this  fine  Ball.  I 
should  have  liked  to  have  been  there,  but  my  whole 
admiration  would  have  been  bestowed  on  one  Person 
alone. 

"  Wednesday,  2ird.  Received  a  great  shock  today 
in  hearing  of  Mr.  Holden's  death.  All  this  day  we 
have  been  very  melancholy  and  cryed  constantly. 

**  Monday,  2%th.  At  last  my  diamond  earrings  are 
come  home,  and  the  necklace  made  from  the  Surpeach  ; 
it  looks  very  well  and  showy,  but  too  good  for  Betsey, 
so  I  have  taken  it  to  myself.  I  have  had  your  ever 
valuable  dear  Picture  set  round  with  Brilliants,  not 
to  increase  its  value — that  cannot  be — but  that  I  may 
have  the  pleasure  of  wearing  it — altogether  my  jewels 
look  very  well. 

"  Saturday,  Oct.  loth.  Drove  over  to  Twick- 
enham   to    see    our    dear    friends    [Mrs.    and    Miss 


324  TLbc  jfrancis  Xetters  [1778 

Holden].  ...  I  looked  at  my  late  worthy  Friend's 
Picture  and  pay'd  a  short  tribute  to  his  Worthy 
Memory.  I  hope  they  will  soon  be  comforted,  at 
least  it  looks  so. 

"...  A  gentleman  from  India — Mr.  Harwood — 
called  and  gave  me  a  letter  from  you.  He  spoke 
of  you  and  of  what  great  chances  you  had  of  being 
in  the  Chair,  and  many  such  things  which  gave  me 
great  pain.  How  grieved  should  I  be  if  that  should 
happen,  my  joy  would  then  be  over  for  I  should  have 
small  hope  of  ever  seeing  you  again.  What  would 
the  world  be  to  me,  or  all  its  riches — I  could  never 
value  or  enjoy  them  without  your  company  .  .  .  but 
I  trust  you  will  not  be  tempted  by  such  glare,  and 
will  resist  its  greatness  for  the  sake  of  making  me 
happy.  .  .  .  This  young  man  seems  very  sensible  and 
worthy — he  stayed  two  hours  with  us. 

"  Wednesday y  21st.  I  have  hired  a  Boy  under  the 
footman,  he  won't  be  much  expense.  He  has  come 
this  evening,  he  is  about  15  and  very  short,  but  a 
good  inclined  boy,  he  is  just  now  come  out  of  Wales 
and  I  hope  a  stranger  to  everything  that  is  bad. 

"  Nov.  iith.  Your  letter  dated  Feb.  6th  I  received 
Oct.  29.  You  seem  very  gay  indeed,  nothing  but 
Masquerades  and  Balls  &c.,  but  you  still  talk  of 
animosities  and  disagreements.  I  am  thankful  you 
can  bear  it  so  well  and  don't  let  such  troubles  stick 
to  you.  ...  I  have  had  the  particulars  of  your  own 
Grand  Ball  from  Mr.  Sabine  Gascoyne,  he  liked  it 
much  and  says  everything  was  charming.  The  time 
was  when  you  would  not  have  liked  the  trouble  of 
such  an  amusement,  but  great  men  must  submit  to 


1778]  Zhc  jf rands  Xetters  325 

do  what  other  Great  Men  do.  Oh  !  the  poor  Lustre ! 
Sabine  told  me  it  was  broke  the  first  night,  but  could 
be  repaired.  I  want  two  glasses  for  my  drawing- 
room,  but  fear  they  would  come  to  half  as  much 
as  your  lustre.  I  intend  to  consult  Mr.  Chandler 
for  I  can't  use  my  room  without  them. 

"London. 

"Dec.  <^th,  1778.  This  morning  I  set  out  for 
the  India  House  to  take  my  Packet  and  enquire 
after  my  picture.  .  .  . 

"  With  the  help  of  Mr.  Dallas  we  got  to  Mr. 
Michells  apartment ;  I  was  shown  your  picture  and 
I  was  much  pleased.  It  is  very  like  but  the  original 
far  exceeds  it  for  beauty.  Mr.  Michell  and  Mr.  Dallas 
promised  to  use  their  interest  to  get  it  for  me  at 
the  easiest  Rate  they  could.  I  offered  any  money 
to  carry  it  with  me  home,  but  it  would  not  do.  Many 
gentlemen  that  know  you  have  been  to  see  it  and 
admire  it  much. 

•*  .  .  .  Poor  Mr.  Rous  has  lost  almost  the  whole 
of  his  things  he  brought  with  him,  we  saw  a  vast 
quantity  all  seized  in  the  India  House. 

"  Saturday,  i2tk.  Sally  and  I  went  to  return  Mrs. 
Goring's  visit.  He  was  out,  but  she  told  me  of  a 
packet  of  letters  he  expected  from  you  by  the  Ceres 
and  could  not  find  it  anywhere  .  .  .  they  are  sadly 
plagued  about  their  cloathes  and  can't  get  anything 
from  on  board  though  they  have  sent  all  their  keys 
and  have  nothing  else  on  board  but  cloathes.  You 
know,  I  suppose,  they  came  in  a  French  East  India- 
man,  the  Carnaticy  which  was  taken  by  some  of 
our  privateers.  .  .  . 


326  XTbe  jfrancts  Xctters  [1778 

"  I  met  Mr.  Maire  at  Mrs.  Goring's,  he  enquired 
much  after  you  and  wished  to  hear  about  my  poor 
dear  brother.  He  has  been  in  the  West  Indies  for 
three  years.  He  made  a  purchase  at  Dominico  and 
the  next  day  it  was  taken  by  the  French. 

"  Sunday,  13/^.  All  our  girls  and  Philip  at  home. 
I  dined  at  the  head  of  my  six  children  and  very  fine 
we  looked. 

"  Dec.  2j\th.  I  often  talk  to  your  dear  Picture  and 
kiss  it,  'tis  almost  alive,  and  that  sweet  mouth  is  so 
like  your  own,  I  cannot  say  enough  of  it.  I  am 
having  the  frame  new  gilt,  so  do  not  let  any  one 
see  it  till  it  is  done  and  hung  up  in  one  of  the 
drawing-rooms. 

*'  Friday,  Jan.  8M,  1779.  Today  I  am  very  grand 
for  I  have  had  a  party  to  dinner,  something  extra- 
ordinary. Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler,  Mr.  D'Oyly  {she 
was  not  well)  Mr.  Bristow  and  his  sister,  your  great 
favourite,  and  Mr.  Godfrey.  All  these  with  my  own 
family  made  a  handsome  appearance.  My  dinner 
was  a  good  one  and  well  dressed. 

''Friday,  Jan.  29/^.  Mr.  D.  Godfrey  offered  to 
take  Philip  on  Saturday  to  Isleworth  and  in  the 
beginning  of  the  week  to  take  him  to  Harrow.  I 
did  not  approve.  I  think  he  is  too  much  at  liberty 
at  his  house  and  did  not  choose  he  should  lose  his 
time  so  begged  he  would  excuse  me  letting  him  go 
and  I  would  take  him  myself.  So  on  Saturday 
morning  the  20th  I  went  with  Brittain  and  Philip 
in  a  post  chaise  and  the  coachman  on  horseback 
to   Harrow  where  after  making  an  early  dinner  we 


1779]  Ube  jfrancis  Xettcrs  327 

went  to  Mr.  Heath's  to  the  school  and  there  I 
entered  my  boy  and  payd  9  guineas  for  entrance 
money  and  Philip  behaved  as  well  and  as  nobly  as 
boy  could  do  on  such  an  occasion,  he  never  shed  a 
tear,  I  was  near  it.  After  everything  was  settled  with 
the  master,  he  is  to  have  a  Bed  to  himself  and  an 
extraordinary  tutor  that  is  to  cost  ^12.  12.  a  year. 
Board  ^25 — a  bed  to  himself  ;^5.  5.  Schooling 
;^4.  4.  Washing  £1.  i.  French  £^.  4.  Writing  £2.  2. 
Drawing  £6.  6.  Dancing  £^.  4.  This  is  all  at  present 
which  amounts  to  £6^.  18  a  year,  besides  books, 
servants  and  cloaths  and  by  and  by  his  fencing  which 
is  ;^i2.  12.  a  year  more.  I  thought  you  would  like 
to  know  how  much  the  sum  total  would  be.  Mr. 
Heath  seems  to  be  a  well-behaved  man,  and  is 
reckoned  very  severe  in  his  school :  this  I  think  an 
advantage. 

"  Friday,  Feb.  ^th.  Poor  Salmon  the  Silversmith, 
you  remember  him — his  son  went  on  board  the  London 
East  Indiaman,  Capt.  Webb,  and  the  ship  was  run 
down  and  everything  lost — poor  young  Salmon  jumped 
overboard  and  was  taken  up  by  a  tender  and  pressed 
as  a  common  sailor  and  has  lost  everything,  and  his 
father  almost  distracted,  and  does  not  know  where 
he  is,  nor  where  to  write  to  him. 

**  Wednesday.  The  General  Fast  Day,  Betsey  and 
I  went  to  Church. 

"  Thursday,  iitk.  Admiral  Keppel  is  cleared  and 
come  off  with  honor  and  the  Town  are  all  mad 
about  it. 

"  We  have  been  to  a  Card  Party  at  Mr.  Wynche's. 
They  have  the  finest  House  that  can  be,  all  hung  with 


328  trbc  jf rands  Xctters  [1779 

crimson  silk  damask  made  on  purpose  for  them, 
Chairs  and  tables  all  gold  and  the  finest  glasses  I  ever 
saw,  and  everything  suitable. 

"  Just  as  we  were  going  to  bed  before  eleven  comes 
a  great  mob  in  the  street  and  calls  for  Lights  in  every 
House.  We  accordingly  did  as  our  neighbours  did 
and  lighted  up  Flambeaux  and  tied  them  to  the  Rails 
outside  the  House  ;  all  this  rejoicing  was  for  Admiral 
Keppel  and  those  who  were  against  him  and  would 
not  illuminate  had  all  their  windows  broke  to  pieces. 
There  was  crackers  and  guns  and  squibs  all  night  and 
riot  and  noise,  so  Brittain  and  all  the  servants  sat  up 
chief  of  the  night  and  I  and  my  daughters  lay  awake 
with  the  noise  and  riot. 

'*  Friday,  \2th.  I  am  sorry  to  find  we  are  to  have 
another  rejoicing  night,  'tis  the  fashion  for  the  friends 
of  the  Admiral  to  give  all  their  servants  blue  favours 
and  they  wear  them  in  their  hats. 

"  \2ith.  Took  a  ride,  when  I  was  out  Mrs. 
Chandler  called,  Sally  was  at  home  and  saw  her,  she 
was  very  gay  and  grand  and  full  of  spirits  and  worryed 
Sally  who  was  not  very  well ;  she  talked  of  Operas, 
Routs  and  Dinings  with  Fashions  and  every  other 
kind  of  Trumpery  &c. 

"  Tuesday,  i6tk.  Town  all  illuminated,  nothing  but 
noise  and  nonsense,  however  we  must  do  as  others  do, 
went  to  bed  at  half  past  one. 

"  Thursday,  18M.  At  last  we  have  had  a  quiet 
good  night's  rest  and  no  noise. 

'•  Friday,  igth.  Our  daughter  Harriet's  birthday, 
she  is  thirteen  years  old  to-day  ...  a  most  charming 


1779]  Ube  jfrancts  Xetters  329 

amiable  girl.  I  wrote  her  a  letter  upon  the  occasion 
and  gave  her  many  good  advices  in  it,  and  she  has 
answered  it  in  the  handsomest  manner. 

**  Saturday.  Sally  and  Betsy  were  invited  and  went 
to  drink  tea  with  Mrs.  Goring  and  went  to  Les  Ombres 
Chinoises  with  Mrs.  and  Miss  Goring  Mr.  Goring  and 
Mr.  Wodsworth. 

"  Wednesday,  March  2^tk.  Harrow  school  breaks 
up  for  a  fortnight.  Philip's  joy  was  very  great 
at  coming  home. 

"  Thursday,  2$th.  We  drank  tea  with  Lady 
Clavering  and  after  went  to  a  great  Rout  of  Mrs. 
Wynche's  where  were  all  the  India  people  in  Town 
and  the  finest  jewels,  pearls  &c.,  I  ever  saw,  they  all 
play  very  high  and  look  very  great. 

"  April  loth.  Mr.  Wodsworth  called  on  us  and  has 
made  me  a  most  noble  present  of  two  very  fine  old 
large  Japan  China  Jars.  I  was  distressed  about 
accepting  them,  but  he  insisted  and  was  most  obliging. 
I  observe  what  you  say  about  Mrs.  Bussy  and  shall 
be  glad  to  have  an  opportunity  of  doing  by  her  as 
your  great  generosity  has  directed. 

''June  6th.  Betsey  went  to  Church,  Sally  and  I 
are  too  much  Invalids  to  have  that  pleasure,  but  in 
the  afternoon  went  to  Mrs.  Chandler. 

''June  22,rd.  I  believe  I  did  not  mention  to  you  my 
having  bespoke  a  new  coach  by  Mr.  Chandler's  advice 
and  I  think  it  will  not  be  very  dear.  I  am  to  give  74 
guineas  and  my  old  coach,  which  is  much  out  of  repair, 
this  new  one  is  to  be  plain  and  neat,  not  showy.  I 
hope  you  my  dearest  Love  will  approve  it,  I    wished 


330  Uhc  jfrancts  Xetters  [1779 

to  have  patched  up  the  other,  but  it  would  have  cost 
£2)0  and  it  was  not  worth  it. 

•*  I  have  been  much  taken  up  in  going  to  sales  to 
see  some  large  plates  of  looking  glass,  but  not  met 
with  any  that  will  do.  All  Mr.  Arnold  Nesbitt's  fine 
fijrniture  is  to  be  sold  next  month.  There  are  some 
fine  glasses  there  I  believe." 

Mrs.  Francis  was  summoned  to  town  from  Walton 
by  her  friends  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chandler  on  account  of 
the  serious  illness  of  the  former.     She  writes : — 

''June  2^th.  We  set  out,  Sally,  Brittain  and  I  at  past 
nine  o'clock  at  night  with  four  horses,  got  to  Town  at 
eleven  and  found  nothing  but  sorrow  and  grief.  Mr. 
Chandler  expected  to  expire  every  moment,  but  per- 
fectly in  his  senses  and  his  poor  wife  nearly  mad.  A 
swelling  in  the  side  and  mortification  feared,  he  lay 
groaning,  no  ease.  We  came  home  at  two  o'clock  in 
the  morning  and  had  but  a  poor  night.  Went  back  at 
seven  and  found  Mr.  C.  just  the  same." 

Mrs.  Francis  then  describes  the  course  of  the  illness 
and  mentions  that  a  serious  operation  was  performed 
from  which  the  patient  never  recovered,  but  sank 
gradually  ;  and  when  his  mind  became  clouded  so  that 
he  could  no  longer  recognise  even  his  wife,  the 
assembled  friends  had  her  taken  away,  persuading  her 
that  her  husband  was  already  dead.  Mrs.  Francis 
took  Mrs.  Chandler  home  with  her  to  her  house  in 
Harley  Street  and  kept  her  there  until  after  the  funeral 


1779]  XTbe  jfrancfs  Xetters  331 

of  her  husband.     Of  this  event  Mrs.  Francis  writes  as 
follows  : — 

"  Saturday,  July  lotk.  A  melancholy  day,  poor 
Mr.  Chandler's  remains  are  to  be  interred  at  Stepney, 
the  poor  Widow  don't  know  it,  but  is  in  great  trouble 
and  I  believe  suspects  it,  she  has  been  upon  the  bed 
the  chief  of  the  day  and  is  very  indifferent. 

''Sunday,  iitk.  There  was  a  most  magnificent 
funeral  and  everything  very  grand  and  beautiful. 
Mr.  Davidson  has  been  here  to-day,  and  told  Mrs. 
Chandler  every  particular  and  she  has  put  on  her 
mourning  and  I  and  all  my  children,  so  we  are  a  very 
melancholy  set  to  look  at,  poor  woman  she  is  most 
miserable  indeed  and  has  been  cupped  by  the  doctor's 
orders. 

'' Friday,  July  iT^rd,  1779.  Mr.  Adair  calls  some- 
times, he  is  very  busy  at  present  at  the  War  Office 
choosing  out  men  from  among  the  Pensioners  to  go 
abroad  as  Soldiers.  We  are  all  here  under  some 
apprehension  of  an  Invasion,  but  hope  it  will  not  take 
place.  You  know  I  am  a  bad  Politician.  Oh  !  how 
heartily  do  I  pray  for  your  return.  Some  people  say 
you  are  appointed  to  continue  in  the  same  Place  and 
Station  for  five  years  more,  I  trust  in  God  that  is 
not  true." 

Philip  had  gone  to  stay  with  Mr.  Ribouville  during 
a  part  of  his  holidays.     Mrs.  Francis  writes  : — 

"  Thursday,  July  \<^th.  Had  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Ribouville,  he  speaks  very  well  of  Philip,  but  does  not 
think  him  improved  in  any  Branch  of  Learning  but  the 


332  xrbe  jftancis  Xctters  [1779 

Latin  and  that  not  much.  Every  thing  else  seems  to 
be  neglected.  What  I  fear  the  most  for  is  the  bad 
examples  from  many  bad  Boys.  Philip  seems  to 
have  more  courage  than  ever,  and  I  fear  will  learn  bad 
language,  swearing,  &c.  ...  Mr.  D'Oyly  says  I  must 
not  move  him  as  you  have  ordered  him  to  be  placed 
there  yourself,  I  trust  he  will  not  be  worse  off  than 
other  Boys. 

"Harley  Street. 

"  Friday,  Ajcg.  20th.  All  the  Town  are  in 
Apprehensions  about  the  French  and  Spaniards 
landing  at  Plymouth,  we  trust  it  will  not  happen. 

"  Tuesday,  Aug.  31^/.  I  don't  recollect  any  thing 
new  today.  I  hardly  ever  have  any  thing  worth 
writing.  The  chief  discourse  every  where  is  the 
Melancholy  state  of  Publick  Affairs  and  the  great 
Danger  of  an  Invasion. 

"  Sept.  \st.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  D'Oyly  drank  Tea  and 
we  talked  much  of  removing  Philip  from  Mr.  Heath's 
House  at  Harrow  to  the  House  of  his  Tutor  who  has 
but  6  Boys.  In  Mr.  Heath's  House  there  are  90 
Boys  and  Philip  is  much  neglected  there.  The  great 
increase  of  Expense  made  me  doubtful,  but  Mr.  D'Oyly 
and  Mr.  Godfrey  say,  so  long  as  it  is  safer  and  the 
Boy  is  taken  more  care  of  I  must  not  think  of  expense. 
It  is  ;^5o  a  year  more  and  upon  the  whole  ;^i30  a 
year — So  it  is  determined  Philip  is  to  be  removed 
to  Mr.   Bromley's. 

**  Sept.  jtk.  Many  thanks  to  you  my  dearest  Philip 
for  that  part  of  your  Letter  in  which  you  say  you 
will  return  early  in  the  month  of  December  next.  I 
pray    God   give   a   Blessing  to  your   Resolution  and 


1779]  ^be  jfrancis  Xetters  333 

Voyage,  Journey  &c.  and  may  you  not  change  your 
Opinion." 

During  the  months  of  October,  November,  and 
December  of  1779,  nothing  occurred  worth  recording. 
Mrs.  Francis  complains  constantly  of  her  own  ill 
health  and  also  of  Sally's  delicacy ;  days  and  weeks 
pass  by,  and  in  the  Journal  the  same  entry  recurs : 
**  Nothing  new  to  say,  we  have  no  change."  Morning 
drives  and  afternoons  of  work  and  an  occasional  caller 
are  the  only  events  in  the  round  of  days — days  of 
unvarying  dullness  and  monotony.  At  last  we  read 
that  the  doctors  have  decided  that  Mrs.  Francis  and 
her  daughter  Sally  should  be  separated  for  a  time, 
because  the  constant  ill  health  of  the  two  aggravated 
the  symptoms  of  each.  On  this  account  Sally  and 
Harriet  are  dispatched  to  Sunbury  to  pay  a  visit 
to  Mrs.  Chandler,  Mary  and  Kitty  return  to  school 
after  the  holidays,  and  Mrs.  Francis  takes  Betsy 
with  her  to  Bath,  her  doctor  having  advised  her 
spending  a  little  time  there  and  taking  its  waters. 
One  short  entry  about  this  time  is  curious,  speaking 
of  a  friend  : — 

**  Mrs.  Campbell  has  left  Town,  she  could  not 
breathe  in  it  and  is  gone  to  live  at  Knights  Bridge." 

Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  during  the  year  1780  contains 
many  complaints  on  the  subject  of  her  husband's 
delayed  return  to  England : — 

"  Saturday,  Jan.  2,rd.  Received  your  Letter,  I  thank 
God  you  was  then  in  good  Health  and  spirits,  but 


334  Ube  iTrancis  Xctters  [1780 

no  talk  of  coming  Home,  your  Letter  is  very  short 
indeed  and  has  no  mention  of  your  children." 

In  May  some  of  the  family  go  to  Tunbridge  Wells, 
and  Mrs.  Francis  joins  her  daughters  there  in  June. 
On  July  7th  she  writes  : — 

"  Mr.  Adair  has  introduced  us  to  the  Earl  of 
Nugent  who  is  here  and  is  quite  the  Beau  of  the 
Place,  though  he  is  near  eighty,  he  admires  your  Girls 
very  much,  and  gives  Breakfasts  at  his  own  Lodgings 
every  day  to  a  dozen  of  Ladies  and  Gentlemen  and 
we  have  often  been  of  the  Party." 

There  is  mention  also  made  of  the  girls  going  to 
balls  in  Tunbridge  Wells,  when  they  were  always 
**  so  lucky  as  to  get  good  Partners  "  ;  **  Your  Daughters 
and  their  dancing  are  much  admired." 

''Aug.  \st.  You  talk  of  Mr.  Hastings  being  in  a 
low  and  dejected  state  at  the  departure  of  Mr.  Barwell, 
this  circumstance  may  occasion  him  some  concern, 
but  as  to  himself  his  Friends  here  and  in  the  Direction 
are  past  all  numbering,  you  must  not  expect  to  get 
any  forwarder,  for  certainly  the  Government  will 
remain  in  the  same  Hands.  ...  I  am  very  sorry  to 
hear  Affairs  are  in  so  desperate  a  State  in  India — 
Nobody  will  believe  it  here.  ...  As  to  your  own 
Rewards,  Happiness  and  Self  Satisfaction — beyond 
every  thing  which  Riches  can  bestow  I  trust  will 
always  be  yours." 

From  Tunbridge  Wells  Mrs.  Francis  takes  her 
daughters  to  Brighton. 

"  Now  for  your  Letter  dated  April  27th   1779   by 


i78o]  XTbe  francfs  Xctters  335 

the  Southampton :  you  say  you  write  this  merely 
to  tell  me  you  were  then  well,  indeed  I  thank  you 
most  heartily  for  so  doing.  .  .  .  Your  staying  after  all 
these  strange  things  you  tell  me  about  is  more  and 
more  odd,  you  tell  me  your  wish  is  to  quit  India, 
but  why  don't  you  do  it,  no  other  Person  but  yourself 
would  consider  what  will  be  of  use  to  the  Country, 
surely  your  staying  or  otherwise  cannot  make  any 
great  difference." 

Mrs.    Francis   and   party  return    to  Harley  Street 

from    Brighton,    September    20th,    1780.      In  a   still 

sadder  vein  Mrs.  Francis  replies  to  a  more  recent 
letter  from  her  husband  : — 

"  Your  staying  in  India  one  year  more  is  the  most 
dreadful  disappointment  to  me.  What  can  detain  you 
my  dear  Philip,  indeed  I  cannot  say  as  you  do,  it  is 
quite  indifferent  to  you  whether  you  stay  or  come 
home,  it  is  not  so  to  me,  I  can  assure  you,  for  all 
my  Happiness  depends  upon  my  seeing  you  ;  I  am 
sorry  to  find  it  is  not  so  with"  you,  but  separation,  I 
was  but  too  sure,  for  almost  seven  years,  would  make 
a  great  alteration  in  your  affection  and  indeed  I  am 
sorry  to  say  I  fear  it  has  a  very  great  one  indeed." 


Mrs.  Francis's  Journal  Continued. 

''Nov.  iSth.  I  this  morning  received  a  Letter 
from  Major  Baggs  and  I  expect  him  every  minute. 
.  .  .  He  came  at  2  o'clock  and  was  much  fatigued. 
He  will  write  to  you  of  the  Reception  he  has  met 
with  from  all  those  who  called  themselves  his  Friends  ; 


336  Zbc  ifrancfs  Xctters  [1780 

it   surprised   him,   but   not    me,    I    understand    those 
things. 

"  Sunday,  Dec.  lotk.  Major  Baggs  dined  with  us, 
we  talked  of  you  and  of  Indian  Affairs.  He  seems 
much  disappointed  that  your  pretended  Friends  don't 
take  any  notice  of  him  or  your  Interest,  he  is  not  yet 
acquainted  with  the  EngHsh  World. 

"  After  Tea  I  went  to  enquire  how  Mrs.  Chitty  did. 
She  was  extremely  ill.  Dr.  Grant  does  not  think  she 
can  live,  poor  Woman,  she  is  quite  composed  and 
prays  constantly  for  her  Dissolution  and  to  be  laid 
by  her  dear  Mr.  Chitty. 

"  Tuesday,  Dec,  i2tk.  Alas  !  our  good  Friend  Mrs. 
Chitty  is  no  more — I  am  sincerely  sorry  and  so  are 
all  my  Girls,  I  am  sure  you  will  be,  she  was  a  kind 
Friend,  I  may  say  almost  a  Mother  to  you — She 
always  sayd  she  should  never  live  to  see  you  again — 
it  is  but  too  true.  .  .   . 

•'  Wednesday,  13/^.  This  morning  your  pretty 
Friend  Miss  Caroline  Clavering  was  married  to  Sir 
John  Morris  Warren  and  there  is  supposed  to  be  more 
love  than  money  .  .  .  she  would  have  him. 

*'  Saturday,  '^oth.  Had  a  note  this  morning  from 
Miss  Biggin  who  lived  with  Mrs.  Bussy  to  inform 
me  that  poor  Sally  Bussy  died  last  night,  rather 
suddenly  though  she  had  been  ill  of  a  great  cold  some 
time,  but  I  did  not  know  it.  ...  I  sent  Brittain  down 
to  the  House  immediately — have  lent  two  guineas  and 
sent  a  Person  to  take  care  of  her  Funeral  as  there  is 
not  any  one  that  would  bury  her  unless  I  do.  .  .  . 

"  Thursday,  Jan.  ^th,  1781.  Poor  Sally  Bussy  was 
buried  today  and  Brittain  attended  the  Funeral. 


i78i]  Ube  ifi'ancts  Xetters  337 

**  Wednesday,  lotk.  My  dear  Boy  went  back  to 
Harrow  this  morning  and  behaved  as  well  as  any 
young  man  in  that  situation  could." 


On  January  26th,  Mrs.  Francis  writes  to  her 
husband  : — 

"  My  dearest  Philip, 

"  I  am  just  come  home  from  carrying  my 
dispatches  to  the  India  House  &  though  I  hope  you 
will  have  left  Bengal  before  those  Ships  arrive,  yet 
in  case  of  accidents  I  must  go  on  with  my  Journal. 
In  your  last  letter  you  say  that  I  am  always  complaining 
either  of  sickness,  or  want  of  money  or  of  other 
little  difficulties.  As  to  sickness  this  is  an  evil  we 
are  all  liable  to,  &  tho'  we  have  much  of  it,  you 
are  sorry  for  it,  you  surely  can't  be  angry  at  it,  then 
as  to  the  affair  of  money,  my  complaints  have  never 
been  to  you,  but  that  I  regret  I  can't  bring  our  heavy 
expenses  within  the  sum  you  wished  and  thought 
enough,  as  to  the  slights  of  Friends,  I  cannot  attribute 
it  to  any  thing  wanting  on  my  part,  or  any  foolish 
Fancies  of  mine  as  you  call  them,  however,  my  dear, 
these  things  are  not  worth  our  attending  to. 

"  I  don't  know  of  any  thing  particular  to  say,  but 
that  we  are  only  continually  longing  to  hear  of  your 
Return  ;  don't  take  it  unkind,  but  as  the  greatest 
Proof  of  our  Love.  Adieu  my  dearest  Philip  and 
accept  the  affectionate  Duty  and  Love  of  your  faithful 
Wife  and  her  six  children. 

"  Eliz^".  Francis." 
22 


338  Ube  3francts  Xetters  [1781 

On  February  1st,  1781,  Mrs.  Francis  began  another 
Journal-letter  to  her  husband,  and  carried  it  on  until 
March   30th  of  that   year.     The  last  entry   is  : — 

"  This  day  my  dearest  Philip  seven  years  ago  was 
the  most  wretched  and  unhappy  I  ever  saw.  You 
left  me  and  I  was  miserable,  the  reflection  upon 
those  past  melancholy  hours  made  me  very  unhappy 
and  ill  too.     I  wept  for  four  hours." 

About  the  same  time  her  husband,  on  his  return 
voyage,  was  fretting  the  hours  away  in  the  Island 
of  Ennui. 


When  Francis  returned  to  England  in  1781  his 
daughters  Sarah,  Elizabeth,  and  Harriet,  were  re- 
spectively eighteen,  seventeen,  and  fifteen  years  old  ; 
Mary  and  Kitty,  eleven  and  nine,  were  probably  still 
in  the  schoolroom ;  and  Philip,  then  thirteen,  was  at 
Harrow.  Mrs.  Francis,  in  her  Journal,  has  given 
glimpses  from  time  to  time  of  the  development  of  her 
girls.  "  My  girls  do  very  well,"  she  says  in  one  entry, 
"  Betsey  applies  to  every  branch  of  improvement, 
French,  writing,  music  and  dancing  ;  of  the  young 
ones  at  school  I  have  very  favourable  accounts  ;  Sally 
[described  elsewhere  as  a  voracious  reader]  from  in- 
disposition has  been  prevented  of  late  from  attending 
to  any  improvements ;  Harriet,  I  think,  is  as  clever 
as  you  can  wish."  And  again  :  "  Mary  is  beautiful, 
Harriet  most  agreeable,  and  always  clever,  and  little 
Kitty  very  engaging." 

These  descriptions  represent  the  girls  as  they  were 


QUEEN    CHARLOTTE. 


Page  339-] 


1781]  ^be  jftancts  Xetters  339 

three  years  before  their  father  came  home.  In  a 
later  mention  of  her  children  Mrs.  Francis  wrote : — 

•*  Your  children  are  all  very  deserving  of  your  notice, 
indeed  no  man  was  ever  blessed  with  six  finer  children 
in  every  respect ;  I  may  venture  to  say  so,  and  I 
flatter  myself  you  will  think  so  when  you  see  them." 

That  all  were  assembled  in  Harley  Street  to  meet 
their  father  on  the  evening  of  October  19th,  1781, 
appears  from  the  following  letter  of  Francis  to  his 
friend  Mr.  Wheler  in  India : — 

Philip  Francis  to  Edward  Wheler,  Esq., 
Calcutta. 

"London, 

"  My  dear  Friend,  ""^  Ncwr.,  1781. 

"  I  arrived  at  Dover  at  four  o'clock  in  the 
morning  of  the  19th  of  last  month,  and  at  night  in 
Harley  Street,  where  I  found  my  family  in  perfect 
health  and  as  happy  as  you  can  imagine.  The  next 
Day  was  employed  in  visiting,  but  there  was  nobody 
in  Town.  ...  On  the  24th  I  had  the  honor  of  being 
presented  to  the  King,  on  the  25th  to  the  Queen, 
and  was  favoured  with  a  very  gracious  Reception. 
Since  that,  my  Time  has  been  chiefly  employed  in 
paying  and  receiving  visits,  and  my  own  private 
Affairs.  There  are  a  very  few  People  in  Town,  and  I 
leave  it  to  others  to  send  for  me  if  they  like  it.  ... 
Yesterday  morning  I  received  a  Letter  from  Paris, 
dated  the  15th  Nov.  1781,  to  which  was  the  following 
Postscript.  '  Accounts  from  Vienna  overland  from 
India,  this  Day,  assert  the  capture  of  Madras  by 
Hyder   Alii   and  Monsieur  de  L' Homme.     I  do  not 


340  Zpc  jfrancts  Xctters  [1781 

discredit  it.'     All  I   can  say  is,  God  forbid !     Before 

I  heard  this,  the  long  Interval,  since  the  last  accounts 

from   India,   made   me  suspect  that  you  had  nothing 

good   to   send   us.     As   hereafter    I    shall   give   little 

credit   to  the  general  letters  from   Bengal,    I  entreat 

you  always  to  tell  me  the  Truth  of  everything  material. 

I  pledge   my  honor   to    you   for   my  discretion,  and 

this  once  for  All.     We  are  in  hourly  expectation  of 

.the  most  important  Intelligence  from  North  America. 

That   Business  seems  to  me  to  hang  by  a  Thread ; 

and  I  own  to  you  the  Aspect  of  it  is  so  dismal,  that 

I    have   hardly    courage  enough    to   look   that   way. 

I    have  seen   Sir   Thomas  Rumbold  twice.     He  has 

been  very  111 ;  but  I  think  not  much  out  of  spirits.  .  .  . 

Lady     Clavering,      Miss     Clavering,     and      Miss 

Charlotte  are  in  Town.     I  have  seen  them  frequently, 

and  endeavoured  to  do   them   service.     It   is  hardly 

conceivable  how   much   they  have  suffered^   in  every 

sense,  by  the  Death  of  their  Father.     You  will  have 

heard  of  a  Treaty  of  Marriage  concluded  and  abruptly 

broken   off  between    Miss    Clavering   and    Sir   John 

Dick.       I    have   heard   all   the    particulars,    and    am 

perfectly  satisfied  that   his  conduct  was  unjustifiable 

in    the   highest    Degree.       But   in   these    Cases,   you 

know,   the   innocent  defenceless  party  always  suffers 

instead  of  the  guilty.  .  .  . 

**  Farewell, 

i(  p^  p  " 

END    OF   VOL.    I. 


Printed  by  Hasell,  IVaison,  <$•  Viney,  Ld.,  London  and  Ayltsbury. 


